''^•: 


4^ 


Ti, 


'!». 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 

Cliap.— L-f'^Copyright  No. — — 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


■VOL  QXuLcu^a^  Twto^zjcL . 


THE     CHICAGO     RECORD 

a 

/ 

COOK  BOOK 


SEASONABLE,  INEXPENSIVE  BILLS  OF  FARE  FOR 
EVERY  DAY  IN  THE  YEAR, 


DESIGNED   TO   FURNISH    "GOOD   LIVING,"    IN  APPETIZING    VA 
RIETY,  AT  AN  EXPENSE   NOT  TO  EXCEED  $500  A  YEAR 
FOR  A  FAMILY  OF  FIVE;  ARRANGED  SO  THAT  REM- 
NANTS FROM  ONE  DAY  CAN  FREQUENTLY 
BE  USED  WITH  MENUS  OF  THE  NEXT. 


y 


1,100     PBIZB     MENUS     WITH     EECIPES,      CABEFULLT    INDEXED,     THE 

CREAM    OF    10,000    MANUSCBIPTS    CONTRIBUTED     BY    TEE 

WOMEN  OF  AMERICA  TO  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD'S 

DAILY  CONTEST  FOR  MENUS  FOR  A  DAY. 


'Upon  what  meat  doth  this  our  CcBsarfeed 
that  he  is  grown  so  great  ?  " 

—Julius  Caesar.  Act  1,  Scene  2. 


PUBLISHED   BY   THE    CHICAGO   RECORD. 


\ 


>»      ..  k 


COPYRIGHT,  1896,  BY 
THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   CO. 


PREFACE. 


This  is  a  Cook  Book  by  the  people  and  for  the  people.  The 
unpublished  cooking  lore  of  all  sections  of  our  vast  country  has 
been  drawn  upon  liberally.  By  its  use  families  of  moderate 
means  can  get  out  of  the  ruts  that  lead  to  dyspepsia  through  the 
dead  level  of  monotony.  The  gastronomic  surprise  that  became 
so  necessary  to  one  of  Balzac's  characters  can  be  obtained  without 
the  aid  of  a  French  chef. 

These  menus  were  written  by  a  large  number  of  women  scat- 
tered from  ocean  to  ocean,  and  from  the  great  lakes  to  the  Gulf 
of  Mexico.  The  larger  part  of  them  have  been  published  in  The 
Chicago  Record,  and  although  each  was  prepared  without  refer- 
ence to  any  other,  it  is  hoped  that  the  daily  succession  of  dishes 
will  be  found  satisfactory,  both  from  an  economic  and  a  gastro- 
nomic point  of  view.  An  harmonious  whole  has  been  produced 
by  inserting  the  necessary  number  of  reserved  manuscripts,  and 
varying  somewhat  the  order  of  original  publication,  so  that  in 
many  cases  the  remnants  from  one  day's  meals  supply  dishes  for 
the  next;  the  roast,  when  sufficient  is  left  for  the  following  day, 
will  be  found  to  harmonize,  cold,  with  the  rest  of  the  bill  of  fare, 
and  may  be  substituted  for  the  fresh  meat  given. 

The  aim  has  been  to  furnish  a  great  variety  of  pleasing  and 
nutritious  meals,  daintily  served,  that  may  be  used  by  families 
whose  style  of  living  does  not  exceed  an  annual  expenditure  in 
provisions  of  a  hundred  dollars  for  each  person,  where  the  family 
numbers  four  or  five  or  more  members.  The  three  Holiday  menus 
— New  Year's  Day,  Thanksgiving  and  Christmas — are  an  exception 
in  the  matter  of  expense.  The  dinners  on  these  occasions  are  ar- 
ranged for  ten  persons,  and  a  cost  of  five  dollars  was  permitted. 
All  other  meals  and  recipes  allow  for  a  family  of  five.  The  esti- 
mates of  cost  have  been  based  on  the  actual  state  of  the  Chicago 
market.  In  future  years  the  seasonable  time  for  various  articles 
may  vary  somewhat,  or  the  prices  may  be  higher.  In  such  con- 
tingencies most  of  these  menus  can  be  cut  down  to  the  appropria- 


iv  PREFACE. 

tion,  by  those  wishing  to  economize,  and  still  leave  an  appetizing 
and  wholesome  dietary.  They  may  likewise  be  expanded  by  the 
more  luxurious. 

While  a  too  slavish  adherence  in  detail  is  not  advised,  it  is 
hoped  that  the  suggestions  for  a  judicious  rotation  in  diet  may 
be  a  help  to  the  experienced  housewife  as  well  as  to  the  novice, 
and  that  she  will  find  her  formulae  are  not  necessarily  the  best 
way  of  preparing  the  various  dishes,  but  only  one  of  a  number  of 
excellent  ways,  whose  judicious  alternation  is  best,  both  for  the 
pleasure  and  the  profit  of  the  eating. 

Quantities  of  salt  and  pepper  when  originally  left  indefinite 
have  been  supplied  in  most  instances.  In  doing  this  the  seasoning 
has  been  keyed  to  the  average  taste,  so  that  the  dishes  will  be 
neither  flat  beyond  redemption  by  cellar  and  shaker,  nor  offen- 
sive to  those  who  dislike  high  seasoning. 

Mark  well  that  in  all  cases  the  cup  is  the  five-cent  tin  measur- 
ing cup  of  one  exact  half-pint;  the  teaspoon  the  standard  one  that 
will  pick  up  60  drops  of  water,  of  which  the  tablespoon  is  four 
times  and  the  saltspoon  one-quarter  the  capacity.  Unless  other- 
wise specified  these  measures  are  to  be  used  level  full.  Particu- 
lar care  should  be  taken  with  baking  powder  and  soda — whose 
excessive  use  is  the  bane  of  American  cookery.  When  the  eggs 
and  flour  are  thoroughly  aerated  by  skilful  beating  and  proper 
mixing,  very  little  aid  is  required  to  make  the  batter  light. 

To  avoid  redundancy,  recipes  for  all  the  dishes  called  for  are 
not  published  under  each  menu,  nor  for  cereals  that  have  direc- 
tions on  the  package;  but  a  complete  classified  index  is  appended, 
a  glance  at  which  will  show  that  this  is  a  very  complete  cook 
book,  peculiarly  rich  in  many  departments.  Over  150  different 
soups  are  given,  and  a  large  choice  in  most  preparations.  But 
enough  of  this— let  the  editor  end  and  the  cooks  begin. 

Chicago,  December,  1896. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK 


MENU  FOR  NEW  YEAR'S  DAY. 


BREAKFAST. 

Milk  porridge. 

Hominy  and  meat  croquettes. 

Apple  johnnycake. 

Apricot  and  fig  sauce. 

Coffee. 


DINNER. 

Clear  soup.  Bread  sticks. 

Stuffed  whiteflsh — creamed  oyster  sauce. 

Roast  venison.  Currant  jelly  sauce. 

Ringed  potatoes.  Onion  ormoloo. 

Walnut  and  watercress  salad. 

French  dressing. 

Cheese  "fingers."  Celery. 

Timbales  with  preserved  strawberries. 

Hot  clear  sauce. 

Ice  pudding. 

Glace  chestnuts. 

Pralines. 
Raisins  or  dates  (creamed). 
Coffee. 


LATE    LUNCHEON. 

Sliced  venison  with  mustard. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Sponge  cake.  Oranges. 

Tea. 


Milk  Porridge — Soak  two  cups  oatmeal  in  a  quart  of  water 
over  night.  In  the  morning  strain  and  boil  the  water  half  an 
hour;  scald  a  pint  and  a  half  of  rich  milk,  thicken  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk;  add  this 
to  the  water,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  a  half-teaspoon- 
ful  salt;    boil  up  well  and  serve. 


6  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Apple  Johnnycake — Mix  a  pint  cornmeal  with  a  scant  half- 
cupful  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 
Dissolve  a  half-teaspoonful  soda  in  a  little  milk  and  stir  into  the 
meal,  adding  milk  to  make  a  batter  as  for  pancakes — a  cup  and 
a  half  will  be  about  the  quantity.  Add  three  very  thinly  sliced 
sour  apples  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty-five  minutes. 

Apricot  and  Fig  Sauce — Cook  until  soft  a  pint  of  dried  apri- 
cots; scald  and  chop  half  a  dozen  layer  figs  and  add  them  to 
the  apricots.  Let  them  cook  together  fifteen  minutes,  adding  a 
cup  of  whit©  sugar.    The  combination  is  very  pleasant. 

Clear  Soup — Heat  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  cov- 
ered saucepan;  slice  into  it  a  medium-sized  onion;  stir  until  the 
onion  is  browned;  add  two  pounds  of  finely  chopped  lean  raw 
beef,  one  quart  cold  water;  cover  closely  and  let  it  simmer  three 
hours.  Strain  the  soup,  return  to  the  kettle;  add  the  white  and 
shell  of  an  egg,  well  beaten,  with  a  little  cold  water;  add  also 
four  peppercorns,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  cloves  and  a  blade 
of  mace.  Boil  five  minutes,  then  strain  and  serve  from  a  hot 
tureen. 

Stuffed  Whitefish,  Creamed  Oyster  Sauce — Selects  firm,  hand- 
some fish,  four  or  five  pounds  in  weight.  Scale,  wash  and  wipe; 
with  a  sharp  knife  make  the  incision  for  cleaning  and  dressing. 
See  that  the  inside  of  the  fish  is  perfectly  clean.  Make  a  rather 
rich  dressing  of  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs;  a  half-teacup  of  boiled 
salt  pork  chopped  fine,  a  hard-boiled  egg  mashed  and  chopped,  a 
quarter-teaspoonful  salt,  a  quarter-teaspoonful  each  of  pepper  and 
made  mustard,  a  half-teacupful  white-wine  vinegar,  a  little  pow- 
dered sage  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Fill  the  fish  with  this, 
tie  up  firmly  in  a  fioured  cloth  and  steam  eight  minutes  to  the 
pound.  When  ready,  remove  the  cloth,  lay  the  fish  on  a  border 
of  parsley  and  lay  alternate  slices  of  lemon  and  hard-boiled  egg 
around  the  dish.  Make  a  cream  oyster  sauce  for  it  by  scalding 
a  cup  and  a  half  of  rich  milk,  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  and  one  of  butter  rubbed  smooth;  add  a  half -teacup  of 
cream  with  the  thickening,  a  half-teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  very 
little  pepper.  Scald  fifteen  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  with  a 
dash  of  lemon  juice.  Mix  them  with  the  cream  sauce,  pour  a 
little  over  the  fish  and  put  the  rest  into  a  gravy  bowl. 

Venison — As  the  main  dish  for  a  holiday  dinner  an  eight- 
pound  haunch  roast  will  be  very  fine;  six  pounds,  however,  will 
be  suflicient;  the  saddle  is  the  next  choice.  If  young  the  hoofs 
are  not  much  opened,  the  fat  is  thick  and  clear.  If  the  smell  is 
sweet  it  is  fresh,  and  will  be  improved  by  being  laid  in  a  crock; 
and  for  six  pounds  a  pint  of  vinegar  scalded  with  twelve  pepper- 
corns, two  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  bay  leaf,  a  stalk  of  thyme 
and  two  of  parsley,  poured  over  the  venison.  Let  it  lie  in  this 
for  two  days  (if  the  weather  is  cold),  turning  occasionally.  When 
ready  to  roast,  wash  and  wipe,  remove  the  thin  skin,  lay  a  few 
strips  of  bacon  over  it  or  butter  it  well;  lay  a  coarse  paste  of 
flour  and  water  half  an  inch  thick  over  it;  put  in  the  dripping 
pan  with  just  enough  cold  water  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan, 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  7 

sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  pepper  in  the  water  and  bake  one  hour. 
Then  remove  the  paste  carefully;  either  put  on  a  few  fresh  strips 
of  bacon  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  bake  one-half  hour,  basting  frequently.  The  last  hour 
have  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  added 
to  the  basting.  The  meat  is  dry,  so  that  more  butter  is  required 
on  that  account.  Test  it  with  a  skewer  to  see  if  it  is  done.  Have 
dish  and  plates  very  hot.  Make  a  simple  gravy  in  the  roasting 
pan  and  pour  some  over  the  venison.  Have  in  separate  sauce- 
boats  the  following  sauces: 

Currant  Jelly  Sauce — Turn  into  a  granite  pan  one  glass  cur- 
rant jelly.  Add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water,  one  tea- 
spoonful dry  mustard,  a  pinch  cayenne  pepper,  one  teaspoonful 
lemon  juice,  one  tablespoonful  cornstarch  rubbed  smooth  in  a 
little  water.    Boil  up  once  and  serve. 

Piquante  Sauce — Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  add  a  small 
onion  chopped  very  fine  and  fry  it;  then  rub  in  one  tablespoonful 
flour,  add  a  cupful  of  gravy  from  the  roasting  pan,  a  pickled  cu- 
cumber chopped  fine,  a  half-teaspoonful  each  of  salt,  pepper  and 
made  mustard,  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Boil  ten  minutes,  add  a 
tablespoonful  vinegar,  give  one  more  boil  and  serve. 

Walnut  and  Watercress  Salad — Crack  thirty  English  walnuts, 
being  careful  not  to  break  the  kernels.  Lay  them  on  a  flat  dish 
on  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  sour  oranges;  squeeze  lemon  juice 
over  them  and  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours.  When  the 
salad  is  needed  wash  and  pick  over  a  pint  of  cress  or  chop  a  bunch 
of  celery  and  add  to  the  walnuts.  Pour  French  dressing  over 
and  serve. 

Cheese  Fingers — When  pies  are  made  take  a  piece  of  pastry 
dough,  roll  out  very  thin  and  cut  into  strips  as  long  and  wide  as 
a  finger;  spread  on  each  strip  grated  cheese  sprinkled  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Lay  on  another  strip,  pinch  together,  brush  with 
yolk  of  egg,  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  If  no  pie  crust  is  at  hand  a 
half-cupful  flour,  a  tablespoonful  butter  and  a  little  ice  water  will 
make  a  great  plenty. 

Timbales  with  Preserved  Strawberries — For  ten  timbales 
beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  to  a  cream  and  add  gradually  five  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar.  Mix  five  tablespoons  flour  with  six  of  milk, 
beating  out  lumps;  grate  in  the  yellow  part  of  the  lemon  rind 
and  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  the  sweetened  yolks.  Beat 
the  six  whites  very  stiff  and  add  them  to  the  mixture.  Butter 
ten  cups  and  nearly  fill  them  with  the  batter.  Sprinkle  lightly 
with  sugar;  set  them  in  a  pan  of  hot  water;  let  it  nearly  reach 
the  tops  of  the  cups;  cover  with  a  sheet  of  thick  paper;  bake  for 
•half  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven;  turn  each  out  on  a  plate,  add  a 
spoonful  of  preserves  and  pour  over  them  a  hot  sauce  made  of 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  flour,  mixed  dry,  in  a  cup  of  sugar;  add 
one-half  cup  of  butter,  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Boil  ten  min- 
utes;   add  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.    Serve. 

Ice  Pudding — Scald  one  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler; 
sweeten  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  pour    slowly    into    three 


8  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK    BOOK. 

beaten  eggs.  Return  to  the  double  boiler  and  stir  until  it  thick- 
ens, about  three  minutes;  do  not  let  it  stay  too  long  or  it  will 
curdle.  When  cool  add  one  pint  of  cream,  a  half-cup  sugar,  a 
quarter  box  gelatine  dissolved  and  strained,  a  half -teaspoon  vanil- 
la, twenty  drops  bitter  almond.  Pour  into  the  freezer  and  when 
half  frozen  open  and  put  in  a  teacup  blanched  and  chopped  al- 
monds, a  teacup  candied  ginger,  chopped  fine,  a  teacup  chopped 
citron  and  half  a  teacup  candied  cherries.  Stir  in  and  finish 
freezing.  Any  preserved  or  candied  fruits  can  be  used,  as  one's 
taste  prefers. 

Glace  Chestnuts — Boil  one  cup  sugar  and  one-third  cup  water 
until  the  fine  threads  "fly"  from  a  silver  fork  dipped  into  it.  Do 
not  stir.  Have  ready  twenty  peeled  boiled  chestnuts  cut  in  half. 
Dip  each  half  lightly  into  the  boiling  sirup  and  lay  them  on  a 
flat  dish.    They  will  be  glazed  as  by  ice. 

Pralines — Two  cups  brown  sugar,  a  half-cup  vinegar  and 
water  mixed.  Boil,  and  when  it  "hairs"  from  the  fork  stir  in  all 
the  pecan  or  hickory  nut  meats  the  sirup  will  hold.  The  moment 
it  sugars  stop  stirring,  remove  from  the  fire  and  shake  about  to 
separate  the  nut  meats. 

Cream  Dates — Boil  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar  and  three- 
fourths  cup  sweet  milk;  add  a  half-teaspoon  butter.  Boil  until 
very  thick,  which  will  be  in  about  ten  minutes.  Let  it  cool;  when 
lukewarm  beat  it,  adding  a  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  When  it  be- 
comes a  soft,  creamy  substance  remove  seeds  from  dates,  fill  with 
this  cream  and  serve  with  chestnuts  and  pralines. 

Miss  Maud  Schultze. 

No.  205  North  Adams  Street,  Peoria,  111. 


SATURDAY,  JANUARY  THE  SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  bananas  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

Hamburg  steak.  Stewed  potatoes. 

Owendaw  bread.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Chinese  eggs  with  tomato  sauce. 

Graham  bread  and  butter.  Apple  fritters. 

White  cake.  Chocolate  blanc  mange. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Onion    soup. 

Mock  duck  with  brown  gravy. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Lettuce  with  French  dressing. 

Cup  custards.  Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  9 

Hamburg  Steak — Get  a  thick  sirloin  steak  weighing  three 
pounds.  Cut  off  the  tough  end;  chop  it  fine  in  a  chopping  bowl; 
add  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice.  Mix  all  well  together.  Moist- 
en the  hands  in  cold  water  (this  prevents  the  meat  sticking  to 
them).  Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  meat  at  a  time  and  form 
it  into  round  cakes  or  steaks.  Fry  them  in  butter  till  nicely- 
browned  on  both  sides.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter,  v>^ith  melted  butter 
poured  over.  This  amount  makes  five  steaks,  which  is  an  ample 
allowance  for  breakfast.  The  sirloin  and  tenderloin  of  this  steak 
will  give  a  broiled  steak  for  dinner  next  day. 

Owendaw  Bread — Put  one  cupful  of  fine  hominy  in  the  double 
boiler  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Beat  two  eggs  light,  add  them 
to  the  hominy  while  it  is  hot,  also  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
half -pint  of  milk,  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  lastly  two  tabje- 
spoons  of  cornmeal.  Mix  all  well  together.  Bake  for  half  an 
hour  in  a  clay  dish  with  a  good  deal  of  heat  at  the  bottom  of  the 
oven  and  not  so  much  at  the  top,  so  as  to  allow  it  to  rise.  It 
must  be  served  in  the  dish  in  which  it  has  been  baked,  and 
helped  with  a  spoon.    (This  is  a  Southern  dish.) 

Chinese  Eggs  with  Tomato  Sauce — Boil  six  eggs  for  fifteen 
minutes;  throw  them  into  cold  water  and  remove  the  shells. 
Take  the  whites  carefully  from  the  yolks,  keeping  the  yolks  in 
shape.  Cut  the  whites  into  shreds  (this  is  best  done  with  a  scis- 
sors). Have  ready  six  round  pieces  of  toast  on  a  hot  platter,  ar- 
range the  shredded  whites  on  the  toast  in  the  form  of  six  nests, 
in  the  center  of  the  nests  place  the  yolks,  one  in  each  nest  with 
a  circle  of  finely  chopped  parsley  around  each  yolk.  Sprinkle 
lightly  with  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  the  tomato  sauce  around  the 
outside  of  the  nests,  and  serve.  This  is  a  pretty  dish,  having 
such  a  contrast  of  colors — red,  white,  green  and  yellow. 

Graham  Bread — On  baking  day  take  out  two  cupfuls  of  the 
sponge  which  has  been  set  with  the  wheat  fiour  (after  the  first 
rising).  Put  it  in  a  bowl,  add  three  tablespoons  of  molasses, 
one  pint  of  graham  flour,  half  pint  of  wheat  flour;  knead  for 
fifteen  minutes,  set  it  to  raise  again  for  two  hours,  then  form  it 
into  a  loaf  and  let  it  stand  for  one  hour.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Graham  bread  must  not  be  put 
in  a  hot  oven — it  burns  so  easily. 

Apple  Fritters — Pare  and  core  four  apples;  slice  them  cross- 
wise in  round  slices.  Beat  one  egg  light,  add  one  cup  of  milk, 
one  cup  of  fiour  in  which  has  been  sifted  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  hard  for  three  min- 
utes. Put  the  sliced  apples  into  this  batter.  Have  ready  a  kettle 
with  hot  lard.  Drop  the  batter  into  it  in  large  spoonfuls,  having 
one  slice  of  apple  in  each  fritter;  fry  for  ten  minutes.  Serve  on 
a  hot  vegetable  dish. 

White  Cake — Beat  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream; 
add  gradually  one  and  a  half  cups  of  granulated  sugar;  add 
one  cup  of  lukewarm  water.  Sift  in  two  cups  of  fiour.  Beat 
continuously  for  five  minutes;    then  sift  in  another  half -cup  of 


10  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

flour  in  which  has  been  sifted  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  very  stiff,  stir  them  in  gently,  add 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Mix  carefully  for  ten  minutes.  Turn 
it  into  a  well-greased  deep  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
one  hour.  This  quantity  gives  cake  for  a  week,  having  it  once 
a  day. 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange — Put  one  pint  of  milk  in  the  double 
boiler;  add  a  half  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  grate  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  chocolate,  mix  it  with  one  tablespoon  of  corn  starch 
and  wet  with  a  little  cold  water,  stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk  and 
boil  for  five  minutes.  Allow  it  to  become  ice  cold.  When  ready 
to  serve,  pass  a  knife  around  the  sides  to  loosen  it;  stand  the 
mold  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  for  a  few  seconds  (this  loosens  it  at 
the  bottom).  Turn  it  out  on  a  glass  dish.  Pour  sweetened  cream 
flavored  with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  around  it  and  serve. 

Onion  Soup — Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  frying 
pan.  When  hot  add  one  finely  chopped  onion;  fry  it  until  nicely 
browned,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  Put  one  quart  of  soup  stock 
(made  from  odds  and  ends  of  cold  meat)  into  a  stew  pan;  add 
the  fried  onion  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Strain;  return  to 
the  fire,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  wet  in  a  little  cold  water 
to  thicken,  and  boil  for  five  minutes  longer.  Season  with  one- 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Cut  two  slices  of  stale  bread  into  dice;  brown  the  dice  in  the 
oven,  put  them  in  the  soup  tureen,  pour  the  soup  over  them  and 
serve  at  once  before  they  become  soft. 

Mock  Duck — Take  four  pork  tenderloins  of  equal  length  and 
weighing  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each.  Split  them  lengthwise, 
and  get  them  as  flat  as  possible;  lay  two  of  them  on  a  meat 
board,  one  over  the  other,  and  sew  them  together  along  one  side 
(for  dressing).  Put  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs  in  a  bowl;  add 
one-quarter  teaspoonful  each  of  sage,  summer  savory,  thyme  and 
pepper;  also  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and  onion  juice,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Mix  all  well  together.  Now  lift  the 
upper  one  of  the  tenderloins  which  have  been  sewn  together,  put 
the  half  of  the  dressing  in  between  them  (leaving  the  other  half 
for  the  other  duck),  and  sew  them  up  at  both  ends  and  the  other 
side.  Treat  the  other  two  tenderloins  in  the  same  way,  thus 
making  two  ducks  of  the  four  tenderloins.  Place  the  ducks  in  a 
dripping  pan,  put  four  slices  of  salt  pork  across  each  one,  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt,  dredge  with  flour,  put  a  half  cup  of  boiling 
water  in  the  pan.  Bake  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  basting  frequent- 
ly. When  done,  set  them  on  a  hot  platter  and  stand  them  in  the 
oven;  place  the  pan  on  top  of  the  stove;  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  brown  flour  to  the  dripping  that  has  remained  in  it;  stir  till 
the  flour  and  dripping  have  formed  a  smooth  paste;  add  one 
pint  of  boiling  water,  pouring  in  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Season  with  one-half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful of  pepper.  Strain  into  a  gravy  dish;  serve  both  the 
ducks  and  gravy  at  once. 

Cup  Custards— Beat  four  eggs  light;    add  a  half  cup  of  granu- 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK    BOOK.  11 

lated  sugar,  one  quart  of  milk,  one-eighth  of  a  nutmeg  grated. 
Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Put  the  custard  into  five  custard 
cups;  stand  them  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water;  then  put  the  pan 
in  the  oven.  Bake  till  the  custards  are  set — that  is,  firm  in  the 
center;  no  longer,  or  they  will  become  watery.  When  done 
stand  away  to  get  cold.    Serve  them  in  the  cups. 

Miss  Ellen  Hurst. 
No.  147  Astor  Street,  Chicago. 


SUNDAY,    JANUARY    THE    THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Oatmeal  with  cream.  Bird's-nest  toast. 

Bread.  Butter.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Sweetbreads  a  I'lndien. 

Ralston  bread  and  butter.  Swedish  bread. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Turbot  a  la  creme. 
•  Beefsteak  with  fried  bananas. 
Potato  cones.  Clarence  pudding. 


Oatmeal — Soak  one  cup  of  diamond-cut  oatmeal  in  four  cups 
of  water  over  night,  adding  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  one 
and  one-half  hours  in  morning. 

Sweetbreads  a  I'lndien — Slice  one  large  onion  fine.  Put  in 
saucepan  with  tablespoon  of  butter.  Cook  until  onion  turns  pale 
yellow.  Add  cup  of  milk,  teaspoon  curry  powder,  tablespoon  pul- 
verized cocoanut,  or  cup  of  cocoanut  milk  if  procurable.  Boil 
slowly  one-half  hour,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  To  this  smooth 
paste  add  two  sweetbreads,  washed,  drained,  sliced  and  fried  light 
brown  in  butter.  Simmer  together  one-half  hour,  adding  one  cup 
of  milk.  When  about  cooked  add  four  thin  slices  of  green  ginger, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  or  lime  juice,  two  ribbons  of  green  peppers. 

Swedish  Bread — Roll  one  pint  of  light  dough  half  inch  thick. 
Spread  with  butter,  sugar,  a  dash  of  nutmeg  and  one  cup  of  well- 
cleaned  currants.  Roll  up,  spreading  butter  over  top.  Let  rise 
and  bake.    Slice  from  the  end. 

Turbot  a  la  Creme — One  pint  of  cold  seasoned  fish  chopped 
very  fine.  Take  one  large  spoonful  of  butter,  melt  in  saucepan 
and  stir  into  it  two  spoonfuls  of  flour  until  smooth.  Add  one  pint 
of  milk,  scalded,  stirring  well  until  it  thickens.    Season  with  one- 


12       THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

half  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  chopped  parsley,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  one-half-tea- 
spoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Stir  into  fish,  and  put  in  shells 
or  small  china  dish,  covering  the  top  with  bread  crumbs  stirred 
into  melted  butter.     Brown  in  oven  ten  minutes. 

Beefsteak  with  Fried  Bananas — Broil  steak,  if  thick,  twenty 
minutes  over  bright  fire;  have  ready  to  pour  over  meat  one 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Avoid  too  hot  a  dish,  as  it  toughens 
steak.  Cut  peeled  bananas  in  three  lengthwise  slices  and  fry  in 
hot  pan  in  butter  for  five  minutes.  Use  four  bananas.  Cover 
over  beefsteak  as  garnish. 

Potato  Cones — Boil  six  large  potatoes.  Mash  and  mix  with 
a  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper  and  onion  juice.  Beat  into  potatoes 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Shape 
carefully  into  small  cones  and  brown  ten  minutes  in  oven. 

Clarence  Pudding — Cut  a  sponge  cake  into  three  layers. 
Spread  with  apricot  jam  and  put  together  again,  covering  with 
whipped  cream.    Garnish,  if  desired,  with  crystallized  cherries. 

Mrs.  R.  M.  Tebbetts. 

No.  2405  1st  Street,  San  Diego,  Cal. 


MONDAY,  JANUARY  THE  FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Mock  pineapple. 

California  flakes.  Cream. 

Fish  steaks  with  tomato  sauce. 

Corn  mufiins.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Fish  souffle. 
Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Macaroni  with  apricots. 
Lady  fingers.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  barley  soup. 

Timbales  of  turkey,  mushroom  sauce. 

Quirled  potatoes. 

Scalloped  sugar  corn. 

Chocolate  pie.  Coffee. 


Mock  Pineapple — Peel,  core  and  slice  crosswise  rather  thinly 
two  nice  apples.  Peel  and  remove  white  fiber  from  three  nice 
oranges.  Slice  also  crosswise  of  the  grain  (a  little  thicker  than 
the  apples).     Lay  upon  a  round  of  apple  a  round  of  orange.   Save 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.       13 

every  drop  of  juice.  Lay  the  double  slices  in  a  circle  on  a  pretty 
plate;  pour  juice  over,  also  a  small  glass  of  sherry  (if  you  use 
it)  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Sprinkle  with  pulverized  sugar. 
Serve. 

Fish  Steaks  with  Tomato  Sauce — In  a  deep  skillet  put  one 
tahlespoonful  of  lard,  one  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour  and  one 
onion  minced.  Brown  this;  then  add  the  juice  from  a  can  of 
tomatoes;  let  this  cook  seven  minutes.  Fry  brown  seven  or 
eight  slices  of  fish.  When  done  place  in  the  skillet  with  the  to- 
matoes, then  add  one-half  pint  of  boiling  water;  stir,  but  very 
carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  the  fish.  Add  a  pod  of  garlic  (if 
liked),  three  cloves,  a  bay  leaf,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
one-half  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  allow  the  mixture  to  stew 
gently  on  back  of  stove  while  you  prepare  six  slices  of  toast, 
butter  it  and  place  it  on  a  platter.  Now  add  two  tablespoons  of 
Worcestershire  sauce  to  the  saucepan,  also  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  When  the  gravy  is  thick  place  piece  of  fish  on  each  slice 
of  toast,  pour  gravy  over  and  serve. 

Corn  Muffins — Beat  two  eggs  very  light,  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  cornmeal,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  brown  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  fiour,  to 
which  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a  cupful 
of  milk.  Mix  thoroughly,  pour  into  greased  muffin  rings  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Fish  Souffle — Take  fish  left  from  breakfast,  about  a  cupful, 
bone  it  thoroughly;  put  it  with  an  equal  quantity  of  mashed 
potatoes,  add  a  half-cup  of  milk  gradually;  then  season  with  a 
small  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  one-third  saltspoonful  of  pepper; 
stir  in  one  beaten  egg.  Put  in  a  buttered  dish  and  set  in  oven 
until  it  becomes  very  hot;  then  beat  the  white  of  another  egg 
very  stiff  and  stir  into  the  yolk,  beaten  with  a  pinch  each  of  salt 
and  pepper.    Heap  over  the  fish  and  brown  in  the  oven.    Serve. 

Macaroni  with  Apricots — Stew  twenty  halves  of  apricots  in 
one-half  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  enough  warm  water  to 
make  a  nice  sirup  when  done.  Before  taking  from  the  fire  add 
a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  brown  flour  and  cook  until  the  sirup 
is  heavy  or  smooth.  Parboil  ten  sticks  of  macaroni,  broken 
into  two-inch  pieces;  drain;  add  to  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  two 
ounces  of  sugar;  throw  in  the  parboiled  macaroni  and  allow  it 
to  simmer  until  the  milk  is  all  absorbed;  stir  it  often;  pour  all 
the  juice  or  sauce  from  the  stewed  apricots  on  to  the  macaroni; 
cover  the  macaroni  well;  set  on  back  of  stove  for  fifteen  min- 
utes, then  take  off  and  allow  to  cool;  when  cold,  form  a  pile  of 
macaroni  in  the  center  of  dish  and  cover  with  the  apricots,  lay- 
ing them  in  layers  around  and  over  it. 

Timbales  of  Turkey  (or  Chicken) — Take  one-half  pound  of 
the  remains  from  the  bones,  selecting  only  those  pieces  that  are 
still  good.  Chop  and  pound  to  a  paste,  add  gradually  one  gill  of 
cream;  now  add,  one  at  a  time,  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  unbeat- 
en, being  careful  to  work  each  one  well  into  the  mixture  before 
adding  the  next.    Add  one  saltspoon  of  salt,  a  "speck"  of  cayenne 


14  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  truffles.  A  little 
onion  juice,  Chutney  sauce  or  Worcestershire  sauce  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  truffles.  Next  stir  in  carefully  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs.  Have  ready  small  timbale  cups  well  but- 
tered. Fill  these  half  full  of  the  mixture,  stand  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water,  bake  twenty  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  hot,  with 
mushroom  sauce  poured  over. 

Mushroom  Sauce — Melt  one  tablespoon  of  butter  without 
browning  and  one  tablespoon  of  flour;  stir  until  smooth.  Add 
one  cup  of  cream;  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Add  one-half 
cup  of  either  freshly  boiled  or  canned  mushrooms,  a  saltspoon 
of  salt,  not  quite  half  so  much  pepper.    Serve. 

Cream  of  Barley  Soup — Boil  one  knuckle  of  veal  or  chicken 
or  turkey  bones  in  two  quarts  of  cold  water  very  gently  for  three 
hours.  Skim  and  strain.  Wash  a  half  a  cup  of  pearl  barley  in 
cold  water.  Cover  it  with  the  white  broth  you  have  just  made. 
Cover  the  saucepan  and  cook  very  gently  until  the  barley  is 
tender.  Then  remove  one-third  of  the  barley,  set  aside,  and 
rub  the  remaining  portion  through  a  sieve.  Now  place  in  the 
saucepan  the  whole  barley  grains,  also  the  barley  and  stock  you 
passed  through  the  sieve,  add  a  half-pint  of  boiling  cream,  season 
to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Throw  into  the  soup  fifteen  beef 
balls,  boil  up  once  and  serve  three  balls  to  each  person. 

Beef  Balls — Mince  to  a  pulp  any  scraps  of  cold  beef,  season 
highly  with  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Moisten  with  any 
cold  gravy  or  soup  left  from  dinner  day  before;  set  over  the 
fire,  stir  into  it  one  tablespoonful  of  flour;  cook  five  minutes. 
Remove,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough  to  handle,  form  into 
balls  the  size  of  marbles,  dip  in  unbeaten  egg,  and  fry  brown 
in  hot  fat.    Put  away  to  use  as  required  in  soups. 

Chocolate  Pie — Line  a  pie  plate  with  a  rich  crust;  bake. 
Make  a  filling  of  one-half  cupful  of  sugar;  one  cupful  of  milk, 
butter  the  size  of  a  hickorynut.  When  hot  add  one  and  one-half 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate;  beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs; 
stir  into  the  mixture;  dissolve  in  cold  milk  one  and  one-half 
tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  stirring  over  the  fire  until  thick 
and  smooth;  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Fill  the  shell 
with  this  mixture.  Whip  a  gill  of  sweet  cream  to  a  froth,  place 
on  top  of  chocolate  mixture  and  serve.    Very  good,  indeed. 

Edith  Uhlig. 

Holdrege,  Neb. 


TUESDAY,  JANUARY  THE  FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Prune  sauce. 

Bread  and  butter.  Ham  croquettes. 

Cornmeal  pancakes.  Maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  15 

LUNCHEON. 

Little  pigs  in  blankets.  Celery. 

Thin  brown  bread  and  butter.  Viennois  cakes. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  celery  soup. 
Beef  roulette.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Parsnips  a  la  mode. 

Pickled  onions.  Frosted  lemon  pudding. 

Crackers.  Cheese.  Coffee. 


Ham  Croquettes— One  cup  finely  chopped  cooked  ham,  one 
of  bread  crumbs,  two  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  one  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  two  eggs,  a  speck  of  cayenne.  Beat  the  ham, 
cayenne,  butter  and  eggs  into  the  potatoes.  Let  it  cool  slightly 
and  shape  like  croquettes.  Roll  in  bread  crumbs,  dip  in  beaten 
egg  and  again  in  crumbs,  put  in  the  frying  basket  and  plunge 
into  boiling  fat.    Cook  two  minutes.    Drain  and  serve. 

Little  Pigs  in  Blankets — Season  large  oysters  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Cut  fat  English  bacon  in  very  thin  slices,  wrap  an 
oyster  in  each  slice  and  fasten  with  a  little  wooden  toothpick. 
Heat  a  frying  pan  and  put  in  the  little  pigs.  Cook  just  long 
enough  to  crisp  the  bacon,  about  two  minutes.  Place  on  slices 
of  toast  that  have  been  cut  into  small  pieces.  Do  not  remove  the 
skewers;  garnish  with  parsley.  Have  the  pan  very  hot  before 
the  pigs  are  put  in  and  shake  continually;    do  not  burn. 

Viennois  Cakes — Cut  any  kind  of  plain  cake  into  small 
squares.  Cut  a  small  piece  from  the  center  of  each  square  and 
fill  the  cavity  with  any  kind  of  marmalade  or  jelly.  Replace  the 
crust  part  that  was  removed  and  cover  with  icing. 

Beef  Roulette — Have  two  pounds  of  the  upper  part  of  the 
round,  cut  very  thin.  Mix  together  one  cupful  of  finely  chopped 
ham,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  a  speck  of 
cayenne  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  stock  or  water.  Spread 
upon  the  beef,  which  roll  up  firmly  and  tie  with  soft  twine,  be- 
ing careful  not  to  draw  too  tight,  as  it  would  cut  the  meat  as 
soon  as  it  began  to  cook.  Cover  the  roll  with  flour  and  fry  brown 
in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  ham  or  pork  fat.  Put  it  in  as  small 
saucepan  as  will  hold  it.  Into  the  fat  remaining  in  the  pan  put 
two  finely  chopped  onions  and  cook  until  a  pale  yellow,  then  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  stir  three  minutes  longer.  Pour 
upon  this  one  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  water.  Boil  up  once  and 
pour  over  the  roulette;  then  add  two  cloves,  one-fourth  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper  and  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cover 
the  saucepan  and  set  where  it  will  simmer  slowly  for  three  hours; 
after  the  first  hour  and  a  half  turn  the  roulette  over.  Serve  hot, 
with  the  gravy  strained  over  it.    Garnish  with  parsley. 


16  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Parsnips  a  la  Mode — Scrape  and  boil  them  thoroughly;  mash 
smooth;  pick  out  the  fibers;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Add  four 
spoonfuls  of  cream  and  one  of  butter.  Heat  to  a  boiling  point  in 
a  stewpan  and  serve.    Mold  in  a  dish  and  smooth  over  the  top. 

Frosted  Lemon  Pudding — Beat  three  eggs  and  add  a  cup  of 
sugar,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  a  quart  of  milk  and 
a  pint  of  bread  crumbs.  Stir  this  all  together  and  bake.  Re- 
move from  the  oven  and  cover  with  jelly;  then  put  a  frosting 
over  it  made  of  the  well-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.    Brown  in  oven.  Mrs.  John  Buie. 

No.  170  Harding  Avenue,  City. 


WEDNESDAY,  JANUARY  THE  SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Quaker  oats  with  cream. 

Fish  rissoles.  Fried  potatoes. 

Hot  biscuits. 

Pine  apple  sauce.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Slices  of  cold  roast  beef. 

Baked  potatoes.  Bread  and  butter. 

Apple  float.  Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Economical  veal  soup. 

Fowl  cutlets.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Celery  in  sauce. 

Southern  bread  pudding.  Coffee. 


Fish  Rissoles — Take  a  piece  of  fish,  either  fresh  or  what  has 
been  cooked,  shred  enough  to  make  a  coffee  cupful  and  let  it 
stew  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  covering  it  until  done. 
Soak  a  French  roll  in  half-cup  of  milk,  beat  up  the  fish  and  roll 
in  a  mortar  with  a  little  finely  chopped  onion  and  two  eggs;  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper  to  your  own  taste.  Mix  all  well;  bake 
in  small  cups  previously  buttered  and  turn  out.  Serve  with  or 
without  sauce. 

Economical  Veal  Soup — Boil  two  pounds  of  veal  from  the 
neck  that  will  make  a  pie  or  fricassee.  When  tender  take  out 
meat  and  save  for  that  purpose.  Leave  in  the  bones  and  boil 
gently  for  about  two  hours  more,  then  strain  the  liquor  and  let 
it  remain  until  the  next  day.  When  wanted  take  off  the  fat,  and 
place  the  soup  in  a  clean  pot;  add  one  small  onion  sliced,  half- 
teacupful  rice,  a  tablespoonful  flour  mixed  in  two  of  water.    Cook 


THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  17 

half  an  hour.  Serve  with  dry  toast  and  season  with  small  tea- 
spoon salt,  one-third  teaspoon  pepper. 

Fowl  Cutlets — Procure  a  fowl  that  will  weigh  four  pounds. 
Form  the  wings,  legs,  breast  and  merrythought  into  six  cutlets, 
flattening  and  giving  them  a  good  shape.  When  preparing  the 
fowl  save  the  liver  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  one-half  of  pepper  and  a  spoonful  of  gravy  or  milk. 
Have  ready  one  beaten  egg  and  dip  each  cutlet  in  this  and  brush 
over  with  the  force  meat,  egg  them  again  and  dip  in  bread 
crumbs,  fry  a  light  brown  color  in  beef  drippings.  Serve  with 
sliced  lemon  round  it,  and  make  gravy  if  desired.  Use  up  what 
is  left  of  fowl  for  luncheon  next  day. 

Celery  in  Sauce — Cut  three  full  heads  of  celery  into  finger 
lengths;  tie  them  into  little  bundles,  blanch  them  in  boiling 
water,  then  drain  and  put  them  to  cook  in  a  cupful  of  the  veal 
soup.  When  they  are  cooked  prepare  a  brown  butter  sauce,  dilute 
it  with  the  broth  the  celery  was  boiled  in  and  let  it  seethe.  To 
serve  set  up  bundles  in  a  dish,  then  untie  the  threads  and  cover 
all  with  sauce.  (This  makes  a  very  delicious  dinner  dish  as  well 
as  a  very  cheap  one.) 

Southern  Bread  Pudding — Put  a  coffeecupful  of  stale  bread 
crumbs  into  a  bowl;  beat  two  eggs  with  a  half  cup  of  sugar, 
three  tablespoonfuls  rice  flour,  mix  with  quart  of  milk,  pour  over 
the  bread  crumbs;  flavor  with  one-fourth  of  a  nutmeg  grated; 
pour  into  a  greased  mold,  cover  securely,  put  into  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water  and  boil  for  one  hour.  Mrs.  W.  J.  Morris. 

No.  9007  Superior  Avenue,  South  Chicago,  111. 


THURSDAY,   JANUARY  THE   SEVENTH. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 

Sausage.  Potatoes  hashed  and  browned. 

Buckwheat  cakes.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Canelon  of  beef.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Cheese.  Crackers  toasted. 

Tea  or  cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Vegetable  soup. 

Fricasseed  rabbit.  Kentucky  potatoes. 

Macaroni  with  cheese  and  tomato  sauce. 

Apple  tapioca  pudding.      Hard  sauce. 

Coffee. 


Potatoes  Hashed  and  Browned — Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into 
quarter-inch  squares.     Put  into    a    three-pint    greased    pudding 
2 


18  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

dish,  pour  over  them  a  cup  of  warm  milk  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  a  small  piece  of  butter  cut  up  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour.    Bake  covered  half  an  hour,  then  brown. 

Canelon  of  Beef — Two  cups  of  cold  roast  beef  seasoned  with 
pepper,  salt  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Stir  in  one  beaten  egg.  Roll 
some  pie  crust  into  an  oblong  sheet,  moisten  beef  with  thickened 
gravy  and  place  in  middle  of  sheet,  roll  up  and  secure  the  ends 
with  pastry;  lay  in  dripping  pan  joined  side  down  and  bake  to 
a  good  brown. 

Fricasseed  Rabbit — Cut  up  rabbit  and  boil  gently  in  small 
quantity  of  water  (about  enough  to  cover  it),  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  add  one  small  onion  sliced.  Taste  gravy  to  be  sure 
there  is  enough  seasoning.  When  tender  remove  rabbit  and  add 
half  pint  of  milk  thickened  with  flour  and  butter;  stew  three 
minutes,  pour  over  rabbit  and  serve. 

Kentucky  Potatoes — Slice  six  large  potatoes  thin,  as  for  fry- 
ing, put  in  ice  water  for  half  an  hour;  remove  from  water  and 
put  in  dripping  pan,  season  with  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  pour  over  them  one-half  pint  of 
milk.  Bake  one  hour,  then  add  half  ounce  butter.  Serve  very 
hot.  Mrs.  C.  B.  Cannon. 

No.  262  West  8th  Street,  Peru,  Ind. 


FRIDAY,  JANUARY  THE  EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  apples  with  cream.  Bread  and  butter. 

Buckwheat  cakes.  Potatoes  chateau. 

Cocoa. 


LUNCHEON. 

Steamed  corn  bread. 

Scalloped  eggs  with  ham.  Cabbage  salad. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Baked  fish  with  egg  sauce.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Stewed  tomatoes.  Bread  and  butter. 

Cranberry  shortcake.  Coffee. 


Buckwheat  cakes  once  tested  from  the  following  recipe  no 
other  will  be  used:  Two  cupfuls  buckwheat,  one  cupful  graham, 
half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  large  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  all 
sifted  well  together.  Mix  with  milk  into  a  thin  batter,  bake  on 
a  hot  griddle  and  serve  immediately. 

Potatoes  Chateau — Cut  six  medium-sized  potatoes  into  quar- 
ters, pare  them  to  crescent  shape,  wash  in  cold  water,  fry  them 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK    BOOK.  19 

slowly  in  medium  hot  fat  three-quarters  done,  drain,  then  put  in 
pan,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter,  place  in  oven 
and  bake  carefully  until  done. 

Steamed  Corn  Bread — Two  cupfuls  yellow  cornmeal,  one  cup- 
ful flour,  one  small  cupful  molasses,  two  cupfuls  sour  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  salt.     Steam  three  hours. 

Scalloped  Eggs  with  Ham — One  cupful  ham  chopped  fine, 
two  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  cupful  rolled  cracker  or  bread  crumbs, 
one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  a  speck  of  salt,  pepper,  one  cup- 
ful sweet  milk,  in  which  two  teaspoonfuls  cornstarch  have  been 
dissolved.  Mix  crumbs  and  butter  together,  chop  whites  of  eggs, 
rub  smooth  the  yolks;  then  put  a  layer  each  of  ham,  crumbs, 
whites  of  eggs,  yolks,  until  dish  is  full.  Pour  milk  over  the 
whole  and  bake  one-half  hour.     Serve  hot. 

Cranberry  Shortcake — One  pint  milk,  one-half  cup  shorten- 
ing, two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  flour  suflicient  to  mix  soft, 
roll  out  to  a  half-inch  thickness,  cover  a  large,  round  pie  tin. 
Spread  over  this  a  coat  of  melted  butter.  Roll  another  crust  and 
lay  over  the  first.  Bake  quickly;  in  five  minutes  after  removing 
from  oven  separate  the  crusts,  cover  the  bottom  one  with  one 
pint  cranberries  which  have  been  previously  stewed  and  sweet- 
ened, reserving  some  of  the  fruit  to  spread  on  top  layer.  Serve 
hot.  Jessie  Deforest. 

Janesville,  Wis. 


SATURDAY,  JANUARY  THE  NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal  porridge. 

Hamburg  steak.  Fried  potatoes. 

Pop-overs.  Stewed  prunelles. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Broiled  Yarmouth  bloaters. 

Bread  and  butter.  Fresh  gingerbread. 

Hot  milk  or  cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Boston  baked  beans  and  brown  bread. 

Small  cucumber  pickles. 
Apple  roll,  hard  sauce.  Coffee. 


Stewed  Prunelles — ^Wash  the  fruit  through  repeated  waters. 
Put  on  stove  in  cold  water  to  cover  and  allow  to  slowly  come  to 
a  boil.    When  soft  sweeten  to  taste  and  use  cold. 

Broiled  Yarmouth  Bloaters — Wash  and  wipe  dry.     Broil  in 


20  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

wire  broilers  over  clear,  red  coals,  place  upon  hot  platter  and 
squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  over. 

Gingerbread — One-half  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of 
sugar,  one-third  cup  of  milk,  one-third  cup  of  butter,  one  egg, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda  in  the  molasses,  one  teaspoon  each  of  gin- 
ger, salt  and  cinnamon,  two  cups  of  flour.  Bake  in  flat  pan  and 
cut  with  heated  knife.  Very  good  on  a  cold  day  with  a  glass  of 
hot  milk  into  which  a  trifle  of  salt  has  been  put. 

Boston  Baked  Beans — This  is  the  true  Hub  recipe  and  forms 
a  nice  meal  without  vegetables:  Allow  three  pints  of  beans  to 
soak  in  cold  water  over  night.  Parboil  them  in  fresh  water  the 
next  morning.  When  they  begin  to  soften  a  little  drain  the  water 
off  and  put  in  the  bean-pot,  with  a  half-pound  of  salt  pork  at  the 
bottom  and  on  top  of  the  beans  place  another  piece  of  pork,  a 
half-pound  in  weight.  Pork  should  be  streaked  with  fat  and  lean, 
the  rind  side,  which  has  been  scored  in  squares,  uppermost.  This 
is  better  than  the  old  way  of  placing  all  the  pork  on  top.  Mix 
one  large  tablespoonful  of  dry  mustard  in  a  half-cupful  of  mo- 
lasses and  pour  over  the  contents  of  the  pot  and  fill  with  boiling 
water  to  cover  the  pork  and  put  on  the  lid.  Now  put  in  gentle 
oven  and  bake  slowly  for  eight  or  ten  hours,  add  boiling  water 
as  that  over  the  beans  cooks  away.  They  will  be  soft,  yet  whole, 
and  of  a  rich,  brown  color  all  the  way  through.  This  is  suflacient 
for  several  meals. 

Apple  Roll — Pare,  core  and  cut  into  even  pieces  enough 
apples  to  fill  a  quart.  Make  a  short  biscuit  dough  by  rubbing 
two  small  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or  butter  or  both  into  three 
small  cupfuls  of  flour,  with  which  has  been  previously  sifted  one 
and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  a  large  pinch 
of  salt.  Rub  fine  and  mix  to  a  very  soft  dough  with  cold  milk  or 
water,  turn  out  on  molding-board  and  lightly  press  out  in  a 
shape  longer  than  wide,  put  the  apples  on  this  and  begin  at  one 
end  and  roll  up.  Put  loosely  in  a  pudding  cloth  which  has  been 
wrung  out  of  very  hot  water  and  sifted  with  flour,  and  steam 
one  and  one-half  hours  or  a  little  longer.  A  slight  sifting  of 
either  nutmeg  or  cloves  may  be  put  with  apples  before  rolling, 
but  no  sweetening. 

Hard  Sauce— Slightly  soften  half  cupful  of  butter  by  adding 
a  tablespoonful  of  hot  water.  Stir  until  very  creamy  and  then 
stir  in  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  light-brown  sugar.  Stir  un- 
til very  light.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  and  vanilla  essence  or 
brandy.  M.  M.  Manney. 

Riverside,  111.,  Box  96. 


SUNDAY,  JANUARY  THE  TENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Old-fashioned  apple  sauce.  Fried  mush. 

Pork  chops.  Hashed  brown  potatoes. 

Muffins.  Coffee. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  21 

LUNCHEON. 

Pan  oysters.  Creamed  potatoes. 

Cold  slaw. 

Cream  cookies.  Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Irish  potato  soup. 

Roast  beef  with  Yorkshire  pudding. 

Peas  and  cabbage  hearts.        Browned  sweet  potatoes. 

Boston  cream  pie.  Coffee. 


Cabbage  Hearts  and  Peas — Chop  hearts  of  cabbage  used  for 
cold  slaw.  Put  them  with  a  can  of  peas,  and  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  chopped  mint.  Cook  until  tender,  then  drain.  Have  a  hot  dish, 
let  an  ounce  of  butter  melt  in  it,  turn  in  peas  and  cabbage  and 
season  with  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper. 

Boston  Cream  Pie — (Cream  Part) — Put  a  pint  of  milk  on  to 
boil.  Beat  two  eggs,  add  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  one  small 
half  cup  of  flour,  previously  mixed;  beat  well  and  stir  into  milk 
just  as  it  commences  to  boil;  add  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  keep  stirring  until  it  thickens.  Flavor  with  half  tea- 
spoon of  lemon  or  vanilla. 

(Crust  Part) — Three  eggs,  beaten  separately,  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sifted  flour, 
large  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  two  tablespoons  of  milk, 
or  water.  Divide  the  batter  in  half  and  bake  on  pie-tins  until  a 
straw  color.  When  done  and  cool,  split  each  one  in  half,  and 
spread  half  the  cream  between  each.     Serve  cold. 

Mrs.  Walter  S.  Brown. 

No.  512  Gerald  Bldg.,  cor.  State  and  26th  Sts.,  City. 


MONDAY,  JANUARY  THE  ELEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  apples. 

Quaker  oats  with  cream. 

Broiled  bacon.  Pancakes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Hard-boiled  eggs  with  cream  sauce. 

Bread  and  butter.  Stewed  silver  prunes. 

Scotch  short-bread.  Tea. 


22  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Warmed-over  roast  beef.  Vegetable  sauce. 

Boiled  rice.  Baked  potatoes. 

Peach  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Hard-Boiled  Eggs  with  Cream  Sauce — Put  five  strictly  fresh 
eggs  into  boiling  water  and  cook  gently  for  one-half  hour,  then 
place  them  in  cold  water,  remove  the  shells,  cut  the  eggs  into 
lengthwise  quarters.  Cook  a  small  piece  of  onion  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  until  tender.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  mix  smooth.  Add  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  half  that  quan- 
tity of  pepper  and  one  cup  of  milk;  let  boil  and  pour  over  the 
eggs,  which  should  be  placed  on  a  hot  dish. 

Scotch  Short  Bread — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
thoroughly  creamed  together  and  flour  enough  to  mix;  roll  out 
one  half  inch  thick,  cut  in  squares  with  a  knife,  prick  all  over 
with  a  fork  and  bake. 

Warmed-Over  Roast  Beef — Put  the  cold  roast  beef  (left  from 
dinner  the  previous  day)  in  a  dripping-pan,  together  with  a  cupful 
of  stock,  and  allow  it  to  just  heat  through.  Turn  it  and  baste  it 
often.     Place  on  a  hot  platter  and  pour  around  it  the  following: 

"Vegetable  Sauce — Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  stir  into  it  a  spoonful  of  flour  until  smooth;  add  a  cupful 
of  stock,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful lemon  juice,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper  and 
whatever  kind  of  vegetables  may  be  left  from  previous  meals, 
two  cupfuls  or  less,  cut  fine  and  added  to  the  sauce;  turnips, 
carrots,  peas,  cauliflower,  etc.,  may  be  used.  When  hot  pour 
around  the  meat  and  serve. 

Peach  Pudding — Scald  three  cups  of  milk  and  cook  in  it  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  previously  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  beat  to  a  cream. 
Drain  the  juice  from  a  can  of  peaches,  put  them  in  a  bake  dish, 
cover  v/ith  the  above  mixture  and  set  in  the  oven  ten  minutes; 
then  spread  with  the  stifliy  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  sweet- 
ened with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  return 
to  the  oven  to  brown.    Serve  with  the  sweetened  peach  juice. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Lawton. 

Sharon,  Walworth  county.  Wis, 


TUESDAY,  JANUARY  THE  TWELFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Hominy  flakes. 

Pork  tenderloin.  Fried  apples. 

Hot  waffles.  Maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  23 

LUNCHEON. 

Slices  of  cold  meat.  French  toast. 

Spice  cake.  Plum  jam.    Tea. 

DINNER. 

Potato  soup. 

Sheep's  hrains,  roasted.  Piquant  sauce. 

Stuffed  potatoes. 

Lima  beans.  Lettuce. 

Polish  tartlets.  Coffee. 


Pork  Tenderloin — Choose  the  large  tenderloins,  cut  across  in 
pieces  about  an  inch  thick  (will  form  little  rounds),  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  powdered  sage;  fry  in  a  hot  pan  with  a  little  dripping; 
salt  just  before  taking  up. 

Fried  Apples — Cut  sound  apples  across  without  peeling  or 
coring;  fry  after  the  tenderloins  or  in  ham  fat  until  light  brown. 

WafHes — Mix  one  pint  of  sifted  flour  with  two-thirds  of  a 
pint  of  milk  until  a  smooth  paste;  beat  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter  and  a  little  salt,  and  lastly  two  eggs  beaten  light. 
Have  v/afile  iron  hot  and  ready  greased,  pour  in  enough  batter  to 
cover  the  lower  side  and  close  the  upper  one  gently  down  upon 
it.  Keep  over  fire  half  a  minute  and  turn  over  for  same  length 
of  time.     Remove  and  place  in  oven  a  fev/  moments  to  crisp. 

Spice  Cake — One  cup  of  butter  and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar 
creamed,  add  three  well-beaten  eggs,  then  one  cup  of  milk  slowly. 
Stir  in  two  cups  of  raisins  and  currants  (equally  divided)  floured, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves 
and  allspice  combined,  lastly  two  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.     Makes  a  large  loaf. 

Sheep's  Brains  Roasted — Slightly  boil  four  sheep's  brains; 
throw  into  cold  water,  drain  and  dry  wholly;  brush  them  over 
with  oil  and  roll  in  highly  seasoned  bread  crumbs;  use  pepper, 
salt  and  nutmeg.  Place  each  one  on  a  slice  of  bacon  in  a  pan 
and  put  in  a  well-heated  oven;  when  nicely  browned  take  up 
and  place  upon  slices  of  toast  and  serve  with  piquant  sauce. 

Piquant  Sauce — Cook  two  tablespoonfuls  of  onion  in  four  of 
vinegar  for  three  minutes,  then  add  a  large  cupful  of  stock,  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one-fourth  that  quantity  of  cayenne  and 
salt  to  taste.  Boil  for  five  minutes,  put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
chopped  capers  and  same  of  chopped  cucumber  pickles.  Boil  up 
and  serve. 

Polish  Tartlets — Roll  good  pie  crust  out  thin  and  cut  it  into 
two  and  a  half  inch  squares;  brush  each  square  over  with  the 
white  of  an  egg,  then  fold  over  the  corners  so  they  will  meet  in 
the  middle;  slightly  press  together,  brush  over  with  the  white 
of  egg,  sift  with  sugar  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  quarter  of 
an  hour.  When  done  make  a  little  hole  in  the  middle  and  fill 
with  jam,  jelly  or  marmalade.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Thomas. 

Perry,  Iowa. 


24  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK    BOOK. 

WEDNESDAY,  JANUARY  THE  THIRTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Egg  fricassee.  Bohemian  toast. 

Cornmeal  pancakes.  Maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Scalloped  oysters.  Graham  bread. 

Cocoanut  flakes.  Crushed  currants. 

Crust  coffee. 


DINNER. 

Stuffed  veal  ribs.  Baked  potatoes. 

Bread  and  butter.  Pickled  cabbage. 

English  apple  pie.  Cheese. 

Tea. 


Bohemian  Toast — Beat  two  eggs  well,  add  one-half  cup  milk, 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  a  sprinkle  of  pepper,  one  teaspoonful 
onion  juice.  In  this  mixture  dip  bread  (stale  may  be  used)  until 
soft,  then  fry  in  well-greased  skillet  until  a  nice  brown  on  both 
sides. 

Cornmeal  Pancakes — For  two  cups  sour  milk  use  one  even  tea- 
spoonful soda,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  dissolve  salt  and 
soda  in  one-fourth  cup  hot  water,  add  to  milk,  also  two  eggs 
beaten  light,  and  one  sifted  heaping  cup  cornmeal  and  one-half 
cup  flour.    These  are  very  light  if  made  just  right. 

Cocoanut  Flakes — One-half  cup  of  butter  beaten  light  with 
one  cup  of  sugar.  Two  well-beaten  eggs  and  one-fourth  cup  of 
milk.  Stir  in  one  cup  of  grated  cocoanut,  one  teaspoon  of  lemon 
juice  and  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  sifted  in  flour,  and  flour 
enough  to  roll.     Mix  smooth,  roll  quite  thin,  cut  and  bake  quickly. 

Crushed  Currants — These  should  be  prepared  in  season  of 
currants.  Wash  and  stem  and  carefully  mash  every  currant. 
Weigh  and  add  an  equal  weight  of  sugar.  Do  not  cook,  but  seal 
at  once  cold.     These  are  delicious  at  this  season. 

Crust  Coffee — Brown  Boston  brown  bread  until  quite  hard; 
crush  with  rolling-pin;  place  one-half  cupful  in  coffee  pot;  pour 
over  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  boil  five  minutes;  add  one  pint  of 
milk;  let  heat;  add  one  tablespoon  of  sugar;  let  settle  two  or 
three  minutes  and  pour. 

English  Apple  Pie — Slice  sour  apples  very  thin  and  fill  a  deep 
dish  even  full.  Add  one-fourth  cup  of  water,  two-thirds  cup  of 
sugar,  bits  of  butter,  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  a  grating  of  lemon. 
Cover  top  with  a  good  puff  paste,  being  sure  to  wet  the  edges  of 
dish.    It  is  nice  eaten  warm  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Norfolk.  Neb.  Mrs.  L.  A.  Taft. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.       25 
THURSDAY,  JANUARY  THE  FOURTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 
Sweet  apples. 
Breakfast  stew.  Baked  potatoes. 

Jolly  boys.  CofEee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Creamed  oysters.  Crackers. 

Thin  bread  and  butter.  Date  jam. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Chicken  broth. 

Fried  chicken.  Crabapple  jelly. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Peas  pudding. 

Gingerbread  pudding. 

Brown  sauce.  Cocoa. 


Breakfast  Stew — Cut  any  cold  meat  you  may  have  into  small 
pieces,  sift  flour  over  them  and  fry  brown  in  butter;  then  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  the  brown  gravy,  mince  half  an  onion,  add 
a  small  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 
Stew  slowly,  but.  do  not  boil.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  if  liked.     Serve  hot. 

Jolly  Boys — Mix  together  thoroughly,  while  dry,  one  and  a 
half  pints  of  ryemeal,  half  a  pint  of  flour,  half  a  teacupful  of  corn- 
meal,  two  pinches  of  cinnamon,  a  little  salt  and  two  small  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Add  one  egg,  well  beaten,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  molasses  and  sugar,  and  cold  water  enough  to 
make  a  thick  batter.  Fry  in  hot  lard,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  at 
a  time,  and  cook  until  well  browned. 

Creamed  Oysters — Take  two  quarts  of  white  soup  stock.  Boil 
two-thirds  of  a  can  of  oysters  with  their  liquor  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes, strain  through  a  sieve  in  order  to  make  the  oysters  fine. 
Return  to  the  fire  and  add  enough  cornstarch  to  make  the  con- 
sistency of  cream;  boil  a  few  minutes,  seasoning  with  salt  to 
taste.  Add  a  quart  of  rich  milk  or  cream  and  serve  immediately 
with  crackers  or  salted  wafers. 

Date  Jam — Take  two  pounds  of  dates,  remove  the  stones,  put 
them  over  the  fire  with  two  cupfuls  of  water,  add  one  pound  of 
sugar,  quarter  of  a  grated  nutmeg  and  a  small  piece  of  butter. 
Cook  and  stir  until  thick,  and  place  in  deep  glasses,  covering  with 
buttered  paper.  Figs  or  seeded  raisins  may  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way. 

Chicken  Broth — Cut  up  the  fowl  and  put  it  in  a  pot  with  four 
quarts  of  water  (cold),  stew  until  there  are  but  three  quarts  left. 
Take  out  the  chicken;  season  the  liquor  and  add  a  small  cupful 


26  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

of  rice.  Cook  rice  tender.  If  you  like  you  may  add  a  cup  of  milk 
and  one  or  two  beaten  eggs  just  before  serving.  Stew,  not  boil, 
the  chicken. 

Pried  Chicken — Drain  the  chicken  from  the  broth  as  dry  as 
possible,  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dip  the  pieces  first  in 
egg  and  then  in  cracker  crumbs  or  cornmeal.  Fry  in  a  skillet 
of  hot  lard  or  drippings — a  few  pieces  at  a  time — with  care  not  to 
let  the  under-side  burn.  The  frying  will  take  about  ten  minutes, 
and  the  chicken  should  come  out  a  fine  golden-brown  color.  Pour 
a  gravy  made  with  some  of  the  broth  in  a  dish  and  lay  the  chicken 
on  it  without  covering  it. 

Peas  Pudding — Soak  four  cups  split  peas  over  night.  In  the 
morning  put  them  with  a  small  onion  into  a  farina  kettle,  with 
just  enough  water  to  cover,  and  boil  until  soft.  Drain  and  rub 
through  a  colander.  Beat  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper  and 
salt  and  three  eggs.  Boil  in  a  buttered  mold  or  floured  cloth  one 
hour.  Turn  out  and  cut  in  slices  on  the  table.  Eat  as  a  veg- 
etable. 

Gingerbread  Pudding — One  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  mo- 
lasses, scant  teaspoonful  soda,  one-half  cup  chopped  suet  or  half 
that  quantity  of  butter  or  lard,  a  little  salt,  ginger  or  other  spice 
to  taste.  The  addition  of  fruit  makes  a  richer  pudding  of  it. 
Serve  with  brown  sauce. 

Brown  Sauce — One  cup  milk,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  two 
of  sugar,  two  of  flour  and  two  of  molasses.  Stir  all  together  and 
boil  ten  minutes.     Flavor  to  taste,  Harriet  Mann. 

No.  1421  Central  Street,  Evanston,  111. 


FRIDAY,  JANUARY  THE  FIFTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 
Cerealine  flakes. 
Liver  and  bacon,  saute.  Bread  and  butter. 

Squash  griddle  cakes.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Welsh  rarebit.  Togus  bread. 

Mother's  cake.  Raspberry  jam. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tapioca  cream  soup. 

White  fish  au  gratin.  Potato  puffs. 

Parsnips  fried  in  molasses.  Chow-chow. 

Cream  cakes.  Orange  sherbet. 

Drip  coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  27 

Liver  and  Bacon,  saute — Cut  one  pound  of  liver  and  half  a 
pound  of  bacon  in  slices,  season  with  pepper,  cut  in  small  squares. 
Place  on  skewers  pieces  of  liver  and  bacon  alternating,  and  fry 
five  minutes  in  boiling  lard  as  you  would  croquettes.  Slip  off  the 
skewers  onto  toasted  bread  and  serve  immediately. 

Welsh  Rarebit,  quick — Grate  one  pint  of  cheese.  Sprinkle 
on  it  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  speck  of  red  pepper.  Heap  this  on  slices  of  buttered 
toast  and  put  in  oven  until  cheese  begins  to  melt,  when  hurry 
to  table. 

Togus  Bread — Three  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk  and  one  of  sour, 
three  cupfuls  of  Indian  meal  and  one  of  wheat  flour,  half  a  cup- 
ful of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  one  of  salt.  Steam 
three  hours.     Good  hot  or  cold.     Enough  for  several  meals. 

Mother's  Cake — Cream  one  small  cup  of  butter,  add  gradu- 
ally a  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  then  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract  and  a  saltspoon  of 
mace.  Take  a  teacup  and  sift  it  even  full  three  times  of  pastry 
(winter  wheat)  flour,  add  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Stir  flour  into  the  mixture  alternating  with  one-half  a 
cupful  of  milk;  lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake 
forty  or  fifty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Use  two  square,  shal- 
low pans  unless  a  loaf  cake  is  desired,  in  v/hich  case  the  cupfuls 
of  flour  should  be  a  little  larger.  Spread  one  layer  with  jelly, 
thinly,  and  over  that  half  a  cupful  of  chopped  raisins,  quarter 
cupful  of  chopped  almonds,  same  of  cocoanut  and  beaten  white 
of  one  egg.    Put  top  layer  in  place  and  cover  with  icing. 

Tapioca  Cream  Soup — Soak  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  tapioca 
over  night  in  two  cupfuls  of  cold  water  after  washing  the  tapioca 
well.  Add  one  quart  of  white  stock  (water  in  which  chicken, 
veal  or  mutton  has  been  boiled)  and  cook  together  very  slowly 
for  one  hour.  Cut  up  one  onion  and  two  stalks  of  celery  and  cook 
for  twenty  minutes  in  a  pint  of  rich  milk  with  a  blade  of  mace; 
strain  on  the  tapioca,  season  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
pinch  of  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  serve. 

White  Fish,  au  gratin — Skin  the  fish  by  starting  at  the  head 
and  draw  down  towards  the  tail,  remove  the  bones,  cut  in  pieces 
about  three  inches  square  and  salt  and  pepper  well.  Butter  a 
dish  and  put  in  a  layer  of  the  fish,  add  sauce,  then  another  layer 
of  fish  and  sauce,  and  cover  then  with  fine  bread  crumbs.  Bake 
half  an  hour.  For  the  sauce  brown  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fiour 
and  three  of  butter  and  add  gradually  a  pint  of  stock  or  milk, 
cold;  when  it  boils  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon,  a  tablespoonful  of  onion  juice,  a  tablespoonful  of  vine- 
gar and  a  few  leaves  of  chopped  parsley.  A  three  pound  fish  is 
enough  for  six  persons. 

Parsnips  Fried  in  Molasses — Boil  parsnips  in  salted  water  un- 
til done.  Let  cool;  slice,  and  fry  brown  in  a  cupful  of  boiling 
molasses.    Good. 


28  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Orange  Sherbet — Two  gills  of  orange  juice,  one  of  lemon,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  cold  water.    Strain  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Sacksteder. 
Downer's  Grove,  111.    Box  109. 


SATURDAY,  JANUARY  THE  SIXTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Apples  baked  with  prunes. 
Georgia  boiled  rice,  with  cream. 
s.  Ham  sauce. 


Poached  eggs 

Rolls.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Mock  sweetbreads. 

Bread  and  butter.  Omelet  for  dessert. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Calf's  head  soup. 

Rabbit  stew. 

Baked  sweet  potatoes.  Celery. 

Stewed  corn. 

Dried  peach  pudding. 


Baked  Apples — Take  as  many  tart  apples  as  are  needed,  wash 
and  remove  cores,  leaving  quite  a  hollow  in  each  apple,  in  which 
place  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  dash  of  cinnamon  and  as  ma,ny 
stewed  prunes  as  apples  will  hold.  Bake  slowly  until  apples  are 
tender;  serve  cold  with  cream. 

Boiled  Rice — After  washing  the  rice  put  it  over  the  fire  in 
plenty  of  actually  boiling,  salted  water  and  let  it  boil  fast  for 
twelve  minutes,  then  drain  off  all  the  water  and  place  the  sauce- 
pan containing  the  rice  in  the  oven  with  the  door  open  and  let  it 
steam  ten  minutes,  or  until  it  is  as  tender  as  desirable;  every 
grain  will  be  distinct  and  the  rice  free  from  moisture. 

Poached  Eggs — Ham  sauce — Mince  fine  three  thin  slices  of 
boiled  ham,  a  small  onion  and  a  little  parsley;  add  half  a  cup  of 
water,  three  shakes  of  pepper,  and  stew  all  together  a  quarter  of 
an  hour.  Put  the  poached  eggs  on  a  dish,  squeeze  over  them  the 
juice  of  half  an  orange  or  lemon  and  pour  over  the  sauce  about 
half  boiling  and  strained. 

Mock  sweetbreads — Take  the  strings  from  two  pounds  of  lean 
veal  and  chop  it  very  fine  with  quarter  pound  of  veal  suet;  soak  a 
roll  in  milk  and  beat  it  light;  mix  this  with  the  veal  and  suet  and 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  pepper,  salt,  a  very  little  nutmeg  and 


THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  29 

two  eggs.  Shape  like  sweetbreads,  dip  in  egg  and  breadcrumbs, 
fry  or  bake  a  golden  brown,  and  serve  with  thick  veal  gravy. 

Omelet — Beat  six  eggs  very  light,  add  five  macaroons  pounded 
fine,  beat  them  well  together;  fry  as  usual;  add  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt  before  folding;  sprinkle  well  with  powdered  sugar  and 
serve. 

Calf's  Head  Soup — Take  a  calf's  head,  well  cleaned,  and  a 
knuckle  of  veal,  put  them  into  a  large  kettle;  tie  one  onion  and  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  mixed  sweet  herbs  in  a  cloth  and  place  in 
the  kettle  with  the  meat,  over  which  pour  four  quarts  of  water; 
let  it  boil  slowly  and  steadily  for  five  hours,  season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper.  One  hour  before  serving  pour  the  soup  through 
a  colander,  pick  out  all  the  meat  carefully,  chop  very  fine  and 
return  it  to  the  soup,  putting  it  again  over  the  fire.  Boil  four 
eggs  very  hard,  chop  them  fine,  and  slice  one  lemon  very  thin; 
add  to  soup  just  before  serving.  This  will  make  soup  for  several 
days. 

Rabbit  Stew — Wash  well  the  rabbit,  cut  it  into  quarters,  lard 
them  with  slices  of  bacon  and  fry  them;  then  put  them  into  a 
stew-pan  with  a  little  more  than  a  pint  of  good  broth  or  stock, 
some  savory  herbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  simmer  gently  until 
the  rabbit  is  tender;  then  strain  the  gravy,  thicken  it  with  fiour 
and  butter,  give  one  boil,  pour  over  the  rabbit  and  serve;  garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon. 

Dried  Peach  Pudding — Boil  one  pint  of  milk;  while  hot  pour 
it  over  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs;  stir  into  this  one  teaspoonful 
of  cold  butter  and  one  pint  of  dried  peaches  stewed  soft.  When 
all  is  cool  add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  half-cupful  sugar,  and  fiavor- 
ing  to  taste.  Put  in  a  well-greased  pudding  dish  and  bake  half  an 
hour;    serve  warm  with  hard  sauce.  Mrs.  Marion  Wilson. 

No.  6407  Lexington  Avenue,  City. 


SUNDAY,  JANUARY  THE  SEVENTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Breakfast  food  and  cream. 

Grilled  beef  on  toast.  Raised  hominy  waffles. 

Lemon  apple  sauce.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Kedgeree. 

Luncheon  potatoes.  Brown  and  white  bread. 

Apricot  fritters.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  barley  soup. 

Stuffed  shoulder  of  mutton. 

Potato  cones.  Baked  salsify. 

Prune  cream  pie.  Coffee. 


30       THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

Grilled  Beef  on  Toast — Melt  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  in  a 
skillet,  and  when  it  is  hot  lay  in  slices  of  cold  beef  and  let  them 
heat  through.  If  the  beef  "left-overs"  are  not  in  slices,  but 
scraps,  then  chop  coarsely  and  heat.  Make  a  sauce  of  two  table- 
spoonfuls  hot  water,  two  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  each  of 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  tomato  catsup,  one  dessertspoonful 
made  mustard,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  pep- 
per, one  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  or  vinegar.  If  onion  is  liked,  chop 
finely  one-half  a  medium  sized  onion,  brown  in  a  tablespoon 
butter,  and  add.  Thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  flour  rubbed  smooth 
with  a  teaspoonful  butter.  Lay  delicately  browned  slices  of  hot 
buttered  toast  on  a  hot  platter,  lay  the  grilled  beef  on  the  toast, 
pour  the  sauce  over;  serve  very  hot. 

Raised  Hominy  Waffles — The  small  hominy  is  best  for  these. 
To  a  coffee  cup  of  boiled  hominy  add  one  pint  boiled  milk  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  pint  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt, 
one  tablespoonful  sugar  and  a  scant  half-teacup  yeast.  Beat  well, 
cover,  set  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  two 
well-beaten  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Bake  in  waffle 
irons.  This  recipe  answers  as  well  for  muffins  if  it  is  not  con- 
venient to  make  waffles. 

Lemon  Apple  Sauce — Pare  and  quarter  six  good-sized  apples. 
Put  a  large  cup  of  sugar  and  a  half-cup  of  water  on  to  boil,  and 
when  it  is  a  sirup  drop  in  the  apple  quarters,  with  two  or  three 
slices  of  fresh  lemon.  Cook  until  tender,  but  do  not  break  the 
quarters. 

Kedgeree — Shred  into  small  flakes  any  nice  cold  fish  until 
there  is  a  heaping  cupful — there  should  be  rather  more  than  a 
half  a  pint.  Add  to  this  a  teacup  of  boiled  rice,  into  which  has 
been  stirred  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  a  half-teaspoonful 
salt,  a  quarter-teaspoon  pepper,  a  pinch  each  of  cayenne  and 
mace.  Add  to  this  a  cup  of  hot  milk  which  has  been  thickened 
with  a  teaspoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together.  Stir 
this  until  very  hot;  then  add  two  well-beaten  eggs;  do  not  let  it 
remain  a  second  longer,  but  pour  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve  at 
once.  The  eggs  may  be  omitted  in  a  time  of  scarcity,  and  it  is 
excellent  without  them.     This  may  be  prepared  in  a  chafing  dish. 

Luncheon  Potatoes — Into  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  made  hot 
stir  one-fourth  of  an  onion  and  brown  it.  Add  two  cups  cold 
potato  chopped  or  thinly  sliced  and  let  them  brown.  Just  before 
taking  them  up  sprinkle  them  with  a  quarter-teaspoonful  each  of 
salt  and  dry  mustard. 

Apricot  Fritters — Make  a  batter  of  one  cup  of  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  a  half-teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  a  well-beaten  egg.  Thin  the  batter  with  juice  from  the 
can  of  appricots — about  half  a  teacup.  Have  boiling  lard  ready; 
cut  the  apricots  in  halves,  dip  each  half  in  the  batter  and  fry. 
Dust  the  fritters,  while  they  drain,  with  powdered  sugar.  Half 
a  can  of  apricots  will  be  enough  for  luncheon,  the  other  half  can 
be  used  next  day. 

Cream  Barley  Soup — Take  the  bones  from  the  shoulder  of 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  31 

mutton,  have  them  cracked,  add  a  5-cent  beef  soup  bone,  and  boil 
in  three  quarts  of  water,  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  barley, 
a  slice  of  onion,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  or  four  pepper  corns, 
a  clove  or  two,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  stalk  of  celery,  if  convenient. 
Simmer  six  hours;  strain  and  skim.  Half  an  hour  before  dinner 
heat  to  boiling  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  thickened  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  each  of  butter  and  flour.  Add  to  the  strained  soup,  boil  up 
once  and  serve,  adding  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt  just  before 
pouring  it  into  the  tureen.  Serve  with  tiny  squares  of  toasted 
bread.    This  is  sufficient  for  at  least  two  days. 

Stuffed  Shoulder  of  Mutton — Split  the  shoulder  in  the  middle 
— on  the  inside — and  remove  both  bones  (the  bones  make  good 
Scotch  broth  if  barley  soup  is  not  desired).  Lay  the  shoulder 
open  on  the  table  and  spread  it  with  a  dressing  made  of  a  cup 
of  bread  crumbs,  a  cup  of  mashed  potato,  a  tablespoon  each  of 
vinegar,  catsup  and  melted  butter,  a  half-teaspoon  each  of  salt  and 
pepper,  a  clove,  a  bay  leaf,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  tablespoonful  of 
cooking  wine,  a  tablespoonful  rich  milk.  Roll  the  shoulder  up, 
tie  with  twine,  roast,  allowing  eighteen  or  twenty  minutes  to  the 
pound.    Baste  frequently. 

Baked  Salsify — Scrape  the  roots  and  lay  them  in  cold  water 
containing  a  little  vinegar.  This  will  keep  the  roots  from  dark- 
ening. Boil  until  tender,  then  cut  into  dice.  Butter  a  baking 
pan,  put  in  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  a  layer  of  cream  sauce,  a 
layer  of  salsify  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  nearly  filled.  Pour 
cream  sauce  over  the  last  layer.  The  cream  sauce  is  made  of  a 
tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together,  to  a  scant 
pint  rich  milk,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half-teaspoon  pepper.  Dust 
each  layer  of  crumbs  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put  a  half- 
teaspoon  butter  in  tiny  dots  to  every  layer  of  crumbs. 

Prune  Cream  Pie — Stew,  stone  and  mash  through  the  colander 
enough  prunes  to  make  a  cup  of  pulp.  To  this  add  one  cup  thin 
cream,  thickened  by  a  teaspoon  of  cornstarch  rubbed  smooth  in 
a  little  cold  milk,  the  yolks  of  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  one- 
third  cup  sugar.  Put  in  a  spoonful  or  two  of  the  apricot  juice  left 
from  luncheon  for  flavor.  Line  a  pie  plate  with  pie  crust,  fill 
with  the  mixture  and  bake  as  quickly  as  you  can  without  burning. 
Beat  the  whites  stiff  and  when  the  pie  is  done  stir  into  the  beaten 
whites  two  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  spread  over  the  top  of 
the  pie;  brown  lightly.    Eat  cold  or  hot  as  preferred. 

Mrs.  A.  G.  George. 

Elmwood,  111. 


MONDAY,  JANUARY  THE  EIGHTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fried  tripe.  Creamed  potatoes. 

Squash  griddle  cakes.  Maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


32  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Salmon  croquettes. 

Buttered  toast.  Cranberry  jelly. 

Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Scalloped  mutton  with  macaroni. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Bread  and  butter.  Olives. 

Almond  blanc-mange. 

Coffee. 


Fried  Tripe — Boil  tripe  tender  and  cut  into  pieces  three  or 
four  inches  square.  Make  a  batter  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  cup  of  milk.  Dip  each  piece  of 
tripe  in  the  batter  twice,  lay  in  frying-pan  and  fry  brown.  Serve 
hot. 

Creamed  Potatoes — Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  thin  slices. 
Put  them  into  a  shallow  pan,  cover  with  milk  and  cook  until  the 
potatoes  have  absorbed  nearly  all  the  milk.  To  one  pint  of 
potatoes  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 

Squash  Griddle  Cakes — One  cup  of  boiling  milk,  one  cup  sifted 
squash,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  egg,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder  and  one  cup  of  flour.  Pour  the  boiling  milk  into  the 
squash;  add  the  butter,  sugar  and  salt.  When  cool  add  the  egg, 
well  beaten,  then  the  baking  powder  mixed  with  the  flour.  Fry 
a  delicate  brown. 

Salmon  Croquettes — Drain  the  liquor  from  a  small  can  of 
salmon,  remove  the  bones  and  chop  very  fine.  Bring  a  cup  of 
milk  to  the  boiling  point  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
rubbed  smooth  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Add  the  chopped 
salmon  and  boil  one  minute.  Stir  in  two  well-beaten  eggs  and 
remove  from  the  fire.  When  cold  make  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry. 

Scalloped  Mutton  with  Macaroni — Remove  the  fat  and  skin 
from  cold  roast  mutton,  cut  the  meat  into  small  thin  slices  and 
season  it  with  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  a  shallow  pudding  dish, 
put  in  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  meat,  then  one 
of  cold  boiled  macaroni  cut  in  inch  pieces.  Over  the  macaroni 
sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catchup.  Proceed  in  this  way 
until  the  dish  is  full,  having  on  the  top  a  thick  layer  of  cracker 
crumbs  moistened  with  one-third  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter. 
Bake  half  an  hour. 

Almond  Blanc-Mange — Boil  together  one  quart  of  milk,  four 
tablespoonfuls  each  of  cornstarch  and  sugar.  When  thick  stir 
into  it  thirty  blanched  and  split  almonds  and  mold.  Serve  with 
cream  and  sugar.  Mrs.  E.  P.  Baumann. 

No.  407  East  Front  Street,  Bloomington,  111. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  33 

TUESDAY,  JANUARY  THE  NINETEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Steamed  apples. 

Hominy  with  cream. 

Ham  fritters.  Potato  griddle  cakes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Pressed  beef.  Steamed  rice. 

Spanish  buns.  Stewed  apricots. 

Chocolate  Menier. 


DINNER. 

Barley  soup. 

Baked  veal  cutlets.  Potato  cones. 

Stewed  parsnips. 

Prune  loaf  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Ham  Fritters — One  cup  cold  minced  ham,  one  egg,  one  cup 
soup  stock,  saltspoonful  dry  mustard,  teaspoonful  Worcestershire 
sauce,  one  tablespoonful  manufactured  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
flour.  Heat  the  stock  to  boiling  point  and  thicken  with  butter 
and  flour  rubbed  together;  stir  into  it  the  ham  with  the  seasoning; 
add  the  beaten  egg.  Let  boil  for  a  minute;  remove  from  fire  to 
cool.  When  cold  make  into  small  balls,  drop  into  a  batter  made 
of  one  cup  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  a  small 
cup  of  warm  water,  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  and  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt.    Fry  in  boiling  fat  and  serve  at  once. 

Potato  Griddle  Cakes — One  cup  of  flour,  sifted  with  one  tea- 
spoonful baking  powder  and  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  large 
potatoes  grated.  Make  into  batter  with  one-half  cup  of  milk  and 
fry  on  well-greased  hot  griddle. 

Pressed  Beef — Boil  a  soup-bone  gently  until  the  meat  drops 
from  the  bones.  Take  the  meat  while  hot  and  cut  it  fine,  remov- 
ing gristle  and  most  of  the  fat.  Season  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter.  Moisten  with  half  a  cupful  of  the  meat  liquor  and  pack, 
it  into  a  granite  dish  with  a  plate  for  a  lid  and  a  flatiron  for  a 
weight.  Slice  when  cold.  Use  the  remaining  meat  liquor  for 
bouillon  for  next  day's  dinner. 

Baked  Veal  Cutlets — One  and  a  half  pounds  of  veal  cutlet 
laid  in  a  well-buttered  roasting-pan,  with  a  cup  of  water  to  pre- 
vent burning.  Spread  over  the  cutlet  a  dressing  made  as  follows: 
Two  cupfuls  bread  crumbs,  one  onion  chopped  fine,  a  well-beaten 
egg,  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  teaspoonful  salt,  saltspoonful 
3 


34  THE   CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

pepper;  mix  well,  lay  a  cover  on  top  and  bake  a  half-hour;  then 
remove  the  lid  and  allow  it  to  brown. 

Prune  Loaf  Pudding — A  half-pound  of  prunes  stewed  until 
tender;  a  half -box  of  Knox's  acidulated  gelatine  dissolved  in  a 
half-cup  of  cold  water;  juice  of  one  lemon  and  a  half-cup  of  sugar. 
Strain  the  juice  from  the  prunes  (there  should  be  two  and  a  half 
cupfuls);  pour  over  the  gelatine  and  sugar.  Add  the  prunes,  to- 
gether with  the  meats  from  the  prune-pits  (both  chopped  fine), 
then  the  lemon  juice.  Pour  into  a  mold  and  allow  it  to  harden. 
Serve  with  cream.  Jessica  A.  West. 

No.  906  Walnut  Street,  Chicago. 


WEDNESDAY,  JANUARY  THE  TWENTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Halved  oranges. 

Hashed  brown  potatoes.  Codfish  in  cream. 

Laplanders.  Vienna  coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Mock  bisque  soup. 

Curry  of  tripe.  Peanut  sandwiches. 

Anis  brod.  Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  potatoes. 

Chicken  smothered  in  sauerkraut. 

Stuffed  sweet  potatoes.  Macaroni  and  tomatoes. 

Hulnah.  Coffee. 


Codfish  in  Cream — Shred  and  soak  one-half  cupful  of  salted 
codfish  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  place  in  stewpan, 
cover  with  cold  water;  when  it  boils,  drain;  cover  again  with 
water  and  simmer  gently  fifteen  minutes;  add  one  cupful  of  rich 
milk.  Rub  one  spoonful  of  flour  smooth  in  one  spoonful  of  butter; 
add  to  the  codfish;  mince  one  hard-boiled  egg,  stir  into  the  mix- 
ture; add  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley. 
Boil  up  once.     Serve. 

Curry  of  Tripe — Parboil  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  tripe  ten 
minutes  in  salted  water;  drain;  put  on  in  another  water;  cook 
fifteen  minutes;  drain,  and  in  the  liquor  put  two  thirds  of  a  cup- 
ful of  well-washed  rice;  boil  until  tender;  fry  brown  in  drippings 
two  medium-sized  onions;  into  them  lay  the  tripe  and  add  hot 
water  to  cover.  Season  with  sufficient  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the 
taste  and  a  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder.  Stir  it  up.  Dish  the 
tripe  on  a  platter  and  pile  the  rice  around  it. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  35 

Peanut  Sandwiches — Shell  and  remove  the  skins  from  one  cup 
of  freshly  roasted  peanuts;  chop  very  fine;  mix  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  "mayonnaise  dressing.  Spread  with  butter  and  cut 
thin  slices  of  white  bread;  remove  the  crusts;  spread  the  peanut 
dressing  between  the  slices. 

Anis  brod,  or  Anise  Cakes — Eight  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
one  scant  pound  of  flour;  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one 
tablespoonful  of  anise  seed.  Stir  eggs  and  sugar  in  one  direction 
for  one-half  hour,  then  add  sufficient  flour  and  roll  thin,  same  as 
ginger  snaps.     Cut  into  cakes,  as  fancy  may  direct,  and  bake. 

Chicken  Smothered  in  Sauerkraut — For  this  delicious  dish  use 
an  earthern  baker  (v/ith  a  tight  cover,  if  possible).  Procure  a 
small-sized  j^oung  chicken;  dress,  draw  and  singe.  Rub  well  with 
a  flour  and  water  paste;  wipe  quite  dry  inside;  dust  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Rinse  and  drain  one  quart  of  sweet,  fresh  sauerkraut. 
Fill  the  chicken  with  hot  mashed  potatoes,  well  seasoned;  lay  it 
in  the  roaster,  and  place  on  it  two  slices  of  bacon  (place  two 
slices  in  bottom  of  roaster  also) ;  then  cover  the  chicken  com- 
pletely with  sauerkraut;  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  half  that 
quantity  of  pepper.  Pour  over  a  cup  of  cold  water,  close  down 
the  lid  tight  and  roast  in  the  oven  three  hours;  have  a  moderate 
fire;  do  not  allow  to  cook  dry;  add  boiling  water  as  required  to 
keep  bottom  of  roaster  quite  moist;  when  done  lift  the  chicken 
on  to  a  large  platter,  pile  the  sauerkraut  around  it  and  garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon;  to  the  sauce  in  roaster  add  a  large  table- 
spoon of  browned  flour,  a  tablespoon  of  caramel  and  a  cup  of 
soup  stock;  boil  up-;  add  one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  strain  and  serve  in  sauce  tureen. 

Hulnah — Wash  one  cup  of  rice;  add  to  it  one  quart  of  milk, 
one  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  and 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut;  mix  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  milk 
to  dissolve  it  before  adding  to  the  other  ingredients;  add  a  quar- 
ter of  a  nutmeg  grated  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half,  stirring 
occasionally  until  it  thickens;  then  let  it  brown;  take  from  the 
oven  and  allow  to  cool;  remove  the  brown  skin  and  lay  over 
the  top  a  few  preserved  or  canned  cherries;  beat  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  spread  this  over  the  fruit,  dropping 
from  a  spoon,  so  as  to  make  it  as  irregular  as  possible;  sprinkle 
with  pulverized  sugar  and  set  in  oven  to  brown;  serve  with  a 
cream  sauce  or  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Max  Uhlig. 

Holdrege,  Neb. 


THURSDAY,  JANUARY  THE  TWENTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cormick's   nudavene  flakes,  sugar  and   cream. 

Baked  hash. 

Corn  cakes.  Sirup.  Coffee. 


36  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Dried  beef  in  cream. 

English   crumpets.  Stewed  prunes. 

Feather  cake.  Chocolate   (American). 


DINNER. 

Spanish  soup. 

Brown  stew.  Boiled  potatoes.  Hot  slaw. 

Pickles.  White  bread  and  butter. 

Mother's  "surprise."  Tea. 


Corn  Cakes — One  pint  of  meal,  one  of  sour  milk  or  butter- 
milk, one  egg,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt;  a 
tablespoon  of  flour  or  corn  starch  may  be  used  in  place  of  the 
egg.     Bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Feather  Cake — One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  cup  of  flour,  a  little  salt, 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;   flavor  to  taste. 

Chocolate  (American) — Procure  the  best  chocolate;  grate  it, 
allowing  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  to  a  quart  of  mixed  milk  and 
water.  Boil  it  fifteen  minutes,  taking  off  the  scum  as  it  rises, 
and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Spanish  Soup — Soak  one  pound  of  white  beans  over  night,  boil 
them  the  next  morning  till  tender,  add  one  small  white  cabbage, 
which  has  been  cut  up  fine,  a  bit  of  bacon,  a  whole  red  pepper 
and  some  salt;  boil  the  whole  for  an  hour.  Heat  some  lard  or 
drippings  in  a  saucepan  and  fry  in  it  a  sliced  onion;  put  in  the 
soup  little  by  little;  stir  often  with  a  wooden  spoon.  A  little 
olive  butter  and  garlic  makes  this  a  perfect  representative  of  the 
favorite  soup  kept  for  all  travelers  in  Spanish  climes. 

A  Brown  Stew — Four  hours  before  needed  put  on  stove  a 
rather  thick  piece  of  beef,  with  little  bone,  and  some  fat,  pour  on 
just  boiling  water  enough  to  cover,  cover  with  a  close-fitting  lid, 
boil  gently,  and,  as  the  water  boils  away,  add  only  just  enough 
from  time  to  time  to  keep  from  burning,  so  that  when  the  meat 
is  tender  the  v/ater  may  all  be  boiled  away;  the  fat  will  allow 
the  meat  to  brown  without  burning;  turn  occasionally,  brown 
evenly  over  a  slow  fire,  and  make  a  gravy  by  stirring  flour  and 
water  together  and  adding  to  the  drippings;  season  with  salt  an 
hour  before  it  is  done. 

Hot  Slaw — Take  one-half  of  a  firm,  white  head  of  cabbage, 
cut  into  fine  pieces  and  put  in  a  pan  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
about  the  same  quantity  of  pepper  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  adding  a  teacupful  of  vinegar  and  half  that  quantity  of 
water.  Cover  and  cook  until  the  cabbage  becomes  tender,  stirring 
frequently. 

Mother's  "Surprise" — Take  half  a  square  loaf  of  baker's 
bread,  cut  into  thin  slices,  crust  and  all,  and  butter  them.  Peel, 
core  and  cut  up  sufficient  of  nice  baking  apples  in  proportion. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  37   ' 

Take  a  pie  dish,  line  it  with  bread  and  butter.  Next  make  a 
layer  of  apples  at  the  bottom,  then  of  sugar,  then  of  bread  and  so 
on  till  the  dish  is  filled.  Bake  until  the  apples  are  perfectly  soft; 
then  before  serving  turn  it  out  into  a  dish.  It  ought  to  keep  its 
shape,  and  eat  almost  like  a  sweetmeat,  all  the  ingredients  being 
thoroughly  blended  in  baking.  Miss  Idelle  Jennings. 

Box  433,  Monroe,  V\"is. 


FRIDAY,  JANUARY  THE  TWENTY-SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  apricots. 

Veal  hash  on  toast.  Fried  sweet  potatoes. 

Egg  rolls.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Spiced  beef  relish.  Hominy  croquettes. 

Bread  and  butter.  Slip. 

Baked  berry  rolls.  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Baked  whitefish  with  bechamel  sauce. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Celery  salad. 

Nantucket  pudding.  Chocolate. 


Egg  Rolls — Two  eggs  well-beaten,  one  teacup  of  milk,  one 
tablespoon  of  lard,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder 
and  two  pints  of  flour.    Roll  out,  cut,  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Spiced  Beef  Relish — Take  two  pounds  of  raw,  tender  beef, 
chop  very  fine,  put  into  it  a  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  quarter  teaspoon- 
ful  of  pepper,  half  teaspoon  of  sage,  and  two  tablespoons  of  melted 
butter;  add  two  rolled  crackers  made  very  fine,  also  two  well- 
beaten  eggs.  Make  it  in  shape  of  a  roll  and  bake  it.  Baste  with 
butter  and  water.     Slice  when  cold. 

Hominy  Croquettes — To  a  cupful  of  seasoned  cold  boiled  hom- 
iny, add  a  teaspoon  of  melted  butter,  stir  well,  add  a  cup  of  milk 
graduallj^  until  it  is  all  a  light  paste.  Add  a  quarter  teaspoon  salt, 
and  a  well-beaten  egg.  Roll  in  balls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then 
cracker  crumbs  and  try  in  hot  lard. 

Slip — Slip  is  bonny-clabber  without  its  acidity  and  so  delicate 
that  some  like  it  as  well  as  ice  cream.  Make  a  quart  of  milk 
warm;  then  stir  in  one  tablespoon  of  rennet;  set  it  by,  and  when 
cool  again  will  be  as  stiff  as  jelly.  Serve  with  powdered  sugar, 
nutmeg  and  cream. 

Baked  Berry*Rolls — Roll  rich  biscuit  dough  thin,  cut  in  pieces 
four  by  seven  inches,  spread  over  with  canned  berries,  roll  up  and 


38       THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

bake  in  a  dripping  pan.     Strew  over  a  handful  of  sugar,  four 
tablesDOons  hot  water.    Serve  with  sauce  if  liked,  or  eaten  plain. 

Nantucket  Pudding— One  quart  of  any  canned  fruit,  two  table- 
spoons flour,  same  of  sugar,  simmer  together  and  turn  into  molds. 
Cover  with  frosting  as  for  cake  or  whipped  cream  and  sugar, 
browning  lightly  in  the  oven.    Serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Walter  Scott  Brown. 

No.  512  Gerald  Building,  cor.  State  and  26th  St.,  Chicago. 


SATURDAY,    JANUARY    THE    TWENTY-THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal,   with   cream. 

Stewed  kidneys.  Broiled  potatoes. 

Rice  muffins.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Egg  vermicelli.  Brown  bread  and  butter. 

Baked  bananas.  Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Beef  roll.        Baked  potatoes. 

Normandy  salad. 

Prune  pie.  Coffee. 


Stewed  Kidneys — Take  two  lamb  or  veal  kidneys;  cut  the 
good  parts  into  small  pieces  and  lay  them  in  salted  water  for 
half  an  hour.  Wash  well,  cover  with  fresh  water  and  put  on  the 
stove.  As  soon  as  it  boils,  drain.  Chop  an  onion  fine  and  brown 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  shake  of  pepper.  Put  the  kidneys  into 
this  and  boil  gently  half  an  hour.  Ten  minutes  before  serving 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catchup  and  one  of  flour,  rubbed 
smooth,  in  a  little  water. 

Rice  Muffins — One  cupful  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls 
of  flour,  half  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice,  two  scant  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  one  eg$.  Mix  the  dry  in- 
gredients and  rub  them  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl.  Melt  the 
butter  and  beat  it  into  the  rice.  Beat  the  egg  and  add  to  it  the 
milk.  Add  this  mixture  to  the  dry  ingredients,  then  stir  in  the 
rice,  beating  all  together  quickly  and  well.  Bake  in  gem  pans 
twenty-five  'minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Egg  Vermicelli — Boil  three  eggs  thirty  minutes.  Separate  the 
yolks  and  chop  the  whites  fine.  Toast  four  slices  of  bread  and 
cut  into  small  triangles.    Make  a  white  sauce  with  one  cup  of 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.       39 

milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 
Stir  the  whites  into  the  sauce  and  pour  over  the  bits  of  toast  ar- 
ranged on  a  platter.  Rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  through  a  fine 
strainer  over  the  whole. 

Baked  Bananas — Cut  five  bananas  in  two  lengthwise.  Lay  in 
a  pudding  dish  and  bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven, 
basting  frequently  with  a  sirup  made  of  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  a 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Normandy  Salad — Stew  very  gently  in  their  own  liquor  a 
small  can  of  French  peas.  When  the  peas  have  absorbed  all  the 
liquor  remove  from  fire  and  allow  to  cool.  Chop  half  a  pound  of 
English  walnuts,  mix  with  the  peas  and  pour  over  half  a  cup  of 
mayonnaise  dressing. 

Prune  Pie — Stew  the  prunes  as  for  sauce,  stone  them  and 
tear  into  small  pieces.  Line  a  deep  pie  dish  with  crust,  fill  with 
the  prunes  and  sprinkle  over  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  little 
cinnamon.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  white  of  one  egg 
and  two  scant  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar. 

Miss  S.  M.  Graham, 

No.  1369  South  15th  street,  Denver,  Col. 


SUNDAY,  JANUARY  THE  TWENTY-FOURTH. 

BREAKFAST. 

Hominy  and  cream. 

Cream  fish  on  toast. 

Potato  scones.  Cornmeal  flapjacks. 

Peach  and  prune  sauce. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEOIJT. 

"Little  pigs  in  blankets." 

Olive  squares.  Bread  and  better. 

Friar's  omelet.  Cookies. 

,  Cocoa  or  hot  milk. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  rice  soup. 

Chicken  pie.      Potato  hillocks.      Lima  beans. 

Spiced  apple  pickles. 

Peach  snowdrift.  Coffee. 


Creamed  Fish  on  Toast — Pick  into  fine  flakes  enough  cooked 
fish  to  make  a  scant  pint.  Heat  it  thoroughly  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  teacup   of  milk.     Heat  separately   another   cup  of  rich   milk, 


40  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

thickened  with  a  level  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a 
little  cold  milk;  add  to  this  a  teaspoonful  butter,  a  half-teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  a  Quarter-teaspoonful  pepper.  A  tablespoonful  of  cream 
is  a  great  improvement.  Have  ready  slices  of  toast  about  three 
inches  square  buttered,  with  a  drop  of  lemon  juice  or  catsup  on 
each  slice.  Lay  the  toast  on  a  hot  platter,  put  the  hot  fish  on 
the  slices  of  toast  and  pour  the  cream  over.  Any  cold  meat  may 
be  used  instead  of  the  fish.    Chicken  is  particularly  nice. 

Cornmeal  Flapjacks — Scald  over  night  two  cups  of  Indian 
meal  with  a  quart  of  boiling  inilk  or  milk  and  water  mixed,  add- 
ing one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful  brown  sugar  or 
molasses.  Cover  closely  and  let  it  stand  until  morning,  when  add 
yolks  of  two  well-beaten  eggs,  one  scant  cup  flour  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt.  Heat  and  grease  the  griddle,  and  then  add  to  the 
batter  one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  milk,  and, 
last  of  all,  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff,  stirred  in  lightly.  If 
the  batter  is  too  stiff  in  the  morning,  stir  in  a  little  cold  milk. 

Potato  Scones — To  a  heaping  cup  of  mashed  potato  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  flour  and' half  a  teaspoonful 
salt.  Work  the  flour  in  well,  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  in 
rounds,  prick  with  a  fork  to  prevent  blistering,  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.    Split  and  butter  and  eat  while  hot. 

Peach  and  Prune  Sauce — Wash  thoroughly  a  pint  of  prunes, 
cover  with  as  little  cold  water  as  possible  and  let  them  steam 
until  tender;  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  cup  of  juice  from  canned 
peaches  and  six  or  eight  slices  of  peach.  Let  the  sirup  boil  up 
enough  to  mix  the  fruit  well,  but  not  enough  to  break  the  peaches, 

Olive  Squares — Cut  thin  squares  of  brown  bread,  butter  each 
slice  and  sprinkle  very  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stone  eight 
olives,  chop  them  with  two  stalks  of  celery,  one  tiny  cucumber 
pickle,  a  teaspoonful  catsup,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  pep- 
per and  a  very  little  made  mustard — just  about  the  eighth  of  a 
teaspoonful.  Mix  well,  spread  on  the  brown  bread,  cover  with 
another  slice  of  buttered  bread,  pile  in  a  square;  if  slices  of  cold 
meat  are  wished,  they  can  be  laid  next  the  bread  and  the  chopped 
olives  on  the  meat. 

Friar's  Omelet — Stew  and  sift  six  large  apples;  while  hot  add 
one  cupful  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  butter.  When  cool  add  three 
beaten  eggs.  Heat  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  brown  in 
it  one  cupful  stale,  fine  bread  crumbs.  Butter  a  mold,  sprinkle 
crumbs  on  bottom  and  sides;  fill  with  the  prepared  apple,  to 
which  add  juice  of  one  lemon,  cover  with  crumbs;  bake  a  half- 
hour.  When  cool  turn  out  on  a  platter,  eat  with  sugar  and 
cream.    It  can  be  eaten  hot  if  preferred. 

Cream  of  Rice  Soup — Three  pints  of  veal  or  chicken  or  beef 
broth  will  be  needed  as  a  basis  for  this  excellent  soup.  Wash  one- 
third  cupful  rice  and  put  it  on  with  the  broth  to  cook.  Put  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  pan,  and  put  into  it  when  hot 
three  tablespoonfuls  each  of  chopped  carrot,  celery  and  onion. 
Let  them  cook  slowly  twenty  minutes,  then  remove  the  vegetables 


THE   CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  41 

to  the  soup;  stir  two  tablespoonfuls  flour  into  the  butter  left 
from  the  vegetables,  add  that  to  the  soup  with  a  bit  of  mace,  three 
cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper  and  two  teaspoonfuls  salt.  Let 
all  simmer  gently  two  hours.  Strain  soup,  add  a  quart  of  rich 
milk  heated  in  a  double  boiler,  boil  up  once  and  serve. 

Chicken  Pie — An  old  chicken  is  best  for  this  if  plump;  joint 
the  fowl  and  divide  the  breast,  put  on  with  just  enough  cold 
water  to  cover,  a  small  sliced  onion,  and  boil  slowly  until  tender. 
If  salt  pork  is  liked,  add,  a.s  soon  as  the  water  boils,  three  or  four 
narrow  shreds  a  finger  in  length;  when  nearly  tender  add  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  pepper  or  a  small 
bit  of  red-pepper  pod.  Make  a  crust  of  three  cups  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  (heaping)  baking  povv^der,  one  saltspoon  salt,  one- 
half  cup  butter,  chopped  fine  with  the  flour,  and  rich  milk  to 
make  a  dough  just  soft  enough  to  roll  out  nicely.  If  the  crust 
is  desired  very  rich,  use  three-fourths  cup  butter.  Line  the  baking 
dish  with  a  thin  layer  of  this,  put  in  the  chicken,  with  a  table- 
spoonful  butter  cut  into  bits  and  enough  of  the  broth  from  the 
chicken  to  make  gravy  rather  more  than  a  pint.  Cover  with  a 
crust,  having  slits  cut  in  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape.  Fifteen 
minutes  before  serving  raise  the  crust  and  put  in  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs  cut  in  thin  slices,  a  dozen  oysters  and  a  cup  each  of 
chicken  gravy  and  cream  or  rich  milk,  heated  and  thickened  with 
a  scant  tablespoonful  of  flour,  rubbed  smooth  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter.  If  there  is  any  piecrust  left,  roll  out,  cut  in  squares, 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  and  pass  with  gravy  made  of  the  rest  of 
the  broth,  with  milk  and  flour  added  in  the  same  proportions 
as  the  gravy  in  the  pie;  a  blade  of  mace,  a  clove  and  a  bit  of  red 
pepper  improve  the  taste  of  the  gravy. 

Potato  Hillocks — Whip  boiled  potatoes  very  light;  to  a  pint 
of  mashed  potato  adB  a  scant  tablespoon  butter,  a  tablespoon 
hot  milk  or  cream,  a  half-teaspoon  salt,  a  quarter-teaspoon  pepper. 
Beat  in  a  raw  egg,  shape  into  small  conical  heaps;  put  in  a 
greased  pan  into  a  hot  oven,  and  as  they  brown  glaze  them  with 
butter.  Have  the  oven  very  hot;  also  have  a  very  hot  platter. 
Slip  a  cake-turner  under  each  one  and  transfer  to  the  hot  dish. 

Lima  Beans — Wash  well  'a  pint  of  Lima  beans  in  two  waters; 
soak  three  hours  in  warm  water;  drain  and  cook  in  just  enough 
water  to  cover  them  (boiling  water).  Cover  closely  and  boil  for 
an  hour  and  a  half,  watching  that  the  water  does  not  boil  away. 
When  tender,  drain;  add  to  the  water  (there  should  not  be  more 
than  a  cupful)  a  cupful  rich  milk,  a  tablespoon  each  of  flour  and 
butter,  rubbed  together,  a  half-teaspoon  each  salt  and  pepper. 
Pour  over  the  beans  and  serve.  They  are  nice  warmed  over  with  a 
tablespoon  butter  cut  up  over  them  and  allowed  to  brown. 

Spiced  Apple  Pickles — To  three  pounds  pared  apples  allov/ 
one  pound  and  a  half  sugar  and  a  half-cup  vinegar;  tie  up  a  stick 
or  two  of  cinnamon,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  a  few  cloves,  in  a 
bag,  and  put  with  vinegar  and  sugar  and  a  teacup  water.  When 
it  boils  put  in  the  apples;  let  them  cook  until  they  are  tender. 


42  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Pour  the  spiced  vinegar  over  them.  Scald  once  or  twice  the  first 
week  by  draining  off  and  reheating  the  vinegar.  Small  apples  are 
best  for  this  pickle. 

Peach  Snowdrift — Drain  a  can  of  peaches;  take  a  teacup  of 
sugar  and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  the  peach  juice,  and  boil  them 
until  the  sirup  is  clear  and  rich.  Drop  the  peaches  in  and  let 
them  cook  a  short  time,  not  long  enough  to  break  them;  lay  them 
in  a  glass  dish  and  pour  over  them  the  snowdrift  made  by  boil- 
ing one  pint  milk  and  one-half  cup  sugar  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  cornstarch  until  thick  and  smooth;  add  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  three  eggs,  and  a  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Serve  cold  with 
the  following: 

Sauce — Scald  one  pint  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  beat  two  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar  with  yolks  of  three  eggs,  pour  milk  on  them,  re- 
turn to  the  fire  and  add  one  tablespoon  cornstarch  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  milk.  Stir  until  it  thickens;  when  done,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla.    Or  use  cream  or 

Fruit  Sauce — One  cup  peach  juice,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  each  cornstarch  and  butter.  Mix  cornstarch  with 
sugar,  add  fruit  sirup,  boil  five  minutes,  add  butter  just  before 
the  last  two  minutes.  Miss  Elizabeth  Camper. 

Oxford,  Ind. 


MONDAY,  JANUARY  THE  TWENTY-FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Minced  meat  on  toast,  with  bacon. 

Buckwheat  cakes — maple  sirup 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Calves'  brains,  with  eggs. 

Spaghetti,  with  cream   sauce. 

Hot  rolls.        Doughnuts. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Mutton  broth,  with  rice  and  sliced  lemon. 

Corn  beef — caper  sauce. 

Mashed  potato.  Cabbage— cream  sauce. 

Pepper  mangoes. 

Banana  float.         Coffee. 


Calves'  Brains,  with  Eggs— One  pound  of  calves'  brains  soaked 
in  cold  water  twenty  minutes;  remove  the  membrane.  Cook  ten 
minutes  in  boiling  salted  water;  then  put  in  cold  water.    When 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  43 

cold  break  in  small  pieces.  Stir  with  it  three  eggs  well  beaten, 
one  tablespoonful  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste;  remove  to  the  fire  and  cook  until  the  eggs  are 
done. 

Spaghetti,  with  Cream  Sauce — Boil  one-quarter  pound  spag^ 
hetti  twenty  minutes  in  salted  water,  then  dip  in  cold  water  to 
separate  it.  Make  a  sauce  of  one  cup  of  milk,  thickened  with  one 
tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter  melted  together,  grate  a 
little  cheese  in  it  and  stir  in  the  spaghetti;  heat  thoroughly  and 
serve. 

Caper  Sauce — One  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour 
melted  together,  one  cup  of  boiling  water;  stir  till  smooth;  half- 
teaspoonful  salt  and  white  pepper  to  taste;  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  capers. 

Banana  Float — Soak  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  one-half  tea- 
cup of  cold  water.  Boil  three-fourths  of  a  quart  of  milk  and  a 
heaping  coffeecup  of  sugar.  When  boiling  dip  out  enough  hot 
milk  to  dissolve  gelatine;  then  add  this  to  the  other  milk;  boil 
ten  minutes.  When  cold  but  not  stiff,  stir  in  three  bananas  broken 
up  with  a  fork.  Put  in  a  cold  place  or  on  ice  until  the  next  day. 
Remove  from  mold  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  or  cream  and 
sugar.  Mrs.  C.  C.  Howland. 

No.  102  West  Concord  street,  Boston,  Mass. 


TUESDAY,  JANUARY  THE  TWENTY-SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cracked  wheat  and  cream. 

Corned-beef  hash.  Baked  sweet  apples. 

White  mufliins.         Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Panned  oysters. 
Baked  sliced   potatoes. 
.Brown  bread  sandwiches. 
Spiced  currants.     Tea. 


DINNER. 

Green-pea  soup. 

Veal  cutlets,  with  tomato  sauce.      Mashed  potatoes. 

Lettuce,  with  French  dressing. 

Sponge  pudding.  Coffee. 


Corned-Beef  Hash — One  coffeecupful  of  cooked  corned  beef 
chopped  very  flne,  two  coffeecupfuls  of  cold  boiled  potatoes 
chopped  fine,  one-half  cupful  of  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter, 


44  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

one-fourth  teaspoonfiil  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Melt  the  butter  in  the  water,  then  add  the  other  Ingredients  and 
cook  till  thoroughly  heated  through;  then  put  into  a  baking  pan 
and  place  in  the  oven  till  brown  on  top. 

White  Muffins — One  tablespoonful  of  soft  butter,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar;  rub  to  a  cream;  two  beaten  eggs,  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  rounding  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  two  cupfuls  of  flour.  Bake  in  buttered  muffin 
rings. 

Panned  Oysters — One  pint  of  oysters,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  one  of  cracker  crumbs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a 
speck  of  cayenne.  Put  the  oysters  on  in  their  own  liquor, 
which  should  be  strained,  and  when  they  boil  up  add  the  other 
ingredients,  cook  one  minute  and  serve  on  hot-buttered  toast. 
Garnish  the  dish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon. 

Baked  Sliced  Potatoes — Pare  and  cut  five  medium-sized  po- 
tatoes in  slices  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  place  in  a  buttered 
baking  pan,  dot  over  with  a  little  butter  and  a  slight  sprinkling 
of  salt  and  pepper;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  a  delicate  brown, 
take  up  in  a  hot  tureen  and  pour  over  them  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  hot  cream. 

Brown  Bread  Sandwiches — Cut  brown  bread  in  very  thin 
slices,  spread  with  butter  and  put  a  thin  slice  of  rich  cream  cheese 
between  the  slices. 

Spiced  Currants — If  these  have  not  been  prepared  in  their 
season  take  one-half  a  can  of  canned  currants,  add  one  cupful  of 
sugar  and  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves; 
cook  until  thick,  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Any 
kind  of  fruit  can  be  prepared  in  this  way,  or  the  "remnants"  of 
two  or  three  kinds  can  be  put  together,  thereby  making  a  pleas- 
ing change  and  saving  the  fruit.  It  can  be  put  in  jelly  glasses 
and  will  keep  any  length  of  time. 

Green-Pea  Soup — Put  one  can  of  peas,  one  small  onion  sliced 
and  one  can  of  water  together;  cook  twenty  minutes,  then  add 
one  can  of  milk  (measure  the  water  and  milk  in  the  can  the  peas 
were  in).  When  hot  thicken  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  tv/o  of  flour,  cooked  together,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  boil  ten  minutes  and 
strain. 

Veal  Cutlets  with  Tomato  Sauce — Select  the  nicest  cuts  of 
veal  chops,  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  roll  in 
cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  plenty  of  butter  till  well  done.  Have 
ready  a  sauce  made  of  one  coffeecupful  of  canned  tomatoes,  in 
which  has  been  cooked  one  small  onion,  chopped  very  fine;  add 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  half  as  much  pepper,  cook  slowly  a 
long  time  until  the  onion  is  tender  and  the  sauce  quite  thick; 
then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  pour  over  the  chops;  serve 
hot  at  once. 

French   Dressing  for  Lettuce-^hree  tablespoonfuls   of  oil, 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  45 

one  of  vinegar,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  a  saltspoonful 
of  pepper.  Put  the  salt  and  pepper  in  a  cup  and  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  the  oil.  Mix  thoroughly,  then  add  remainder  of  the 
oil  and  the  vinegar.  This  is  dressing  enough  for  a  salad  for  five 
or  six  persons.  If  you  like  the  flavor  of  onion  grate  a  little  juice 
into  the  dressing;  two  or  three  drops  will  be  sufficient  for  this 
rule. 

Sponge  Pudding — Take  five  pieces  of  common  sponge  cake, 
split  them,  spread  with  butter,  put  them  together  again  and  lay 
in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding  dish.  Make  a  custard  of  three 
eggs,  three  cupfuls  of  milk  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  flavor  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  any  flavor  you  choose.  Pour  this  over 
the  cake  and  bake  half  an  hour.  The  cake  will  swell  and  fill 
the  custard.  Mrs.  W.  J.  Header. 

No.  200  Division  street,  Elkhart,  Ind. 


WEDNESDAY,  JANUARY  THE  TWENTY-SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  bananas,  with  cream. 

Hominy  and  cream.  Ham  omelet. 

Stewed  potatoes..  Popovers. 

CofEee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Spanish  hash.  Stewed  apricots. 

Bread  and  butter.  Coffee  fruit  cake. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Celery  soup. 

Roast  pork.         Apple  sauce. 

Mashed  turnip.  Roast  sweet  potato. 

Cream  of  rice.  Coffee. 

Popovers — One  egg  beaten  stiff,  one  cup  of  flour  mixed 
smoothly  in  one  cup  of  milk,  one  saltspoon  of  salt.  Mix  all  well 
together,  place  in  hot  buttered  tins,  bake  quickly.  These  are  very 
good. 

Coffee  Fruit  Cake — One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  English 
currants,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  coffee  (left  from  breakfast),  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice, 
four  cups  of  flour;  mix  well;  bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Makes 
one  large  cake,  or  enough  for  six  meals  in  a  family  of  five.  It  is 
improved  by  the  addition  of  two  eggs. 


46  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Celery  Soup— One  head  of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  cooked 
slowly  in  three  pints  of  milk;  when  done  mix  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  in  a  half-cup  of  cold  milk,  add  slowly  to  the 
soup,  stirring  well  all  the  time  to  prevent  burning;  then  add  one 
tablespoon  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one  of  pepper. 
Serve  hot. 

Roast  pork  is  very  much  improved  by  sprinkling  a  little  sage 

over  the  top. 

Sweet  potatoes  should  be  boiled  until  nearly  done,  then 
skinned  and  put  in  the  pan  with  the  pork  and  roasted  until 
brown. 

Cream  of  Rice  Pudding — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  three 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  three  pints  of  milk,  one  stick  of  cinnamon; 
bake  s;iowly  down  to  one  quart.    Serve  cold.    Very  nice. 

Miss  J.  A.  Davis. 

No.  27  43d  street.  Plat  D,  Chicago. 


THURSDAY,  JANUARY  THE  TWENTY-EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Boiled  snowflakes,  with  cream.         Eggs,  au  lit. 
Hot  rolls,  butter.         Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  ham.  Scalloped  potatoes. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Sugar  cookies.  Red  raspberry  jam. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Gumbo  chicken.         Rice. 

Lettuce,  with  oil  and  vinegar.  Crackers. 

Cheese.         Bread  and  butter.  Souffle. 

Coffee. 


Hot  Rolls — Pare,  boil  and  mash  two  white  potatoes  with 
two  spoonfuls  of  lard;  stir  in  a  cupful  of  scalded  milk,  with  a 
quarter  of  Fleischman's  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  the  milk  after  it 
cools;  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  of  sugar,  one  egg,  beaten  light, 
flour  enough  to  make  a  firm  dough;  set  to  raise  over  night;  in  the 
morning  work  and  roll  out  on  your  bread  board  to  an  inch  thick, 
cut  with  a  biscuit-cutter,  put  in  your  pan  an  inch  apart,  set  to 
raise  for  half  an  hour,  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sugar  Cookies — Cream  a  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of 
butter,  half  a  cup  of  milk;  stir  in  flour  suflicient  to  make  a  dough 
firm  enough  to  roll,  into  which  has  been  sifted  two  teaspoons 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  47 

baking  powder  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Roll  out  very  thin, 
cut  and  sprinkle  over  a  little  sugar.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  till 
brown.    Serve  with  preserves  or  jam. 

Gumbo  Chicken — Chop  fine  a  small  piece  of  cold  ham,  an 
onion,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  meat  of  tomato;  fry  brown  in  half  a 
cup  of  butter;  have  the  fowl  cut  up  small,  and  wiped 
dry;  fry  this  also  brown,  being  careful  not  to  scorch.  Cover  up 
with  boiling  water,  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When 
tender  add  a  can  of  okra;  boil  for  fifteen  minutes;  thicken  with  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  flour,  serve  in  a  deep  covered  dish  with 
boiled  rice  as  a  vegetable. 

Souffle — Heat  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 
stir  in  two  dessert  spoons  of  flour  till  smooth,  then  add  one  tumbler 
of  milk;  heat  till  starch-like;  put  in  your  pudding  dish  and  stir 
in  the  unbeaten  yolks  of  four  eggs;  then  whip  the  whites  as  light 
as  possible  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  stir  therein  and  bake 
in  quick  oven.    Serve  hot,  with  foaming  sauce. 

Foaming  Sauce — Cream  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  small  half- 
cup  of  butter,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  beat  this  in  gradually  with  an  eggbeater; 
set  your  bowl  in  hot  water  for  a  minute  and  beat  well;  when  done 
it  should  be  light  and  smooth.  M.  A.  Bethune. 

No.  1416  Michigan  avenue. 


FRIDAY,  JANUARY  THE  TWENTY-NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Quaker  oats. 

Codfish  in  puree  of  potatoes.      Bread  and  butter. 

Hominy  drop  cakes.      Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Sardine  salad.         Cracker  toast. 

Fairy  gingerbread.  Cheese. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Scotch  roll.  Shred  cabbage. 

Riced  potato.        Togus  bread. 

Cheese  custards.  Bread  and  butter. 

Bananas.  Apples. 

Shells. 


Codfish  in  Puree  of  Potatoes— Six  large  potatoes,  one  pint 
and  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  a  small  slice 
onion  the  size  of  a  silver  quarter,  one  pint  of  cooked  salt  codfish, 


48  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

salt,  pepper,  and  one  large  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Peel  the  pota- 
toes and  boil  and  mash  them  light  and  fine.  Add  salt,  pepper, 
one  tablespoonful  butter  and  a  cupful  of  milk,  which  has  been 
allowed  to  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  well  and  spread  a  thin  layer  of 
the  potato  on  the  center  of  a  hot  platter.  Heap  the  remainder 
around  the  edge,  making  a  wall  to  keep  in  the  cream  and  fish 
which  should  then  be  poured  in.  Finish  the  border  with  parsley 
and  serve. 

To  Prepare  the  Fish — Put  a  pint  of  milk  on  to  boil  with  the 
onion.  Mix  flour  and  butter  together,  and  when  well  mixed,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  hot  milk.  Stir  all  into  the  boiling 
milk,  skim  out  the  onion,  add  the  fish,  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Sea- 
son with  pepper,  a  little  salt  if  necessary.  This  is  a  pretty  as 
well  as  a  good  dish. 

Hominy  Drop  Cakes — One  pint  of  fresh  boiled  hominy  (cold 
may  be  used;  if  the  latter,  break  into  grains  as  lightly  as  pos- 
sible with  a  fork  and  heat  in  a  double  boiler  without  adding 
water),  one  tablespoonful  water,  two  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately.  Stir  the  yolks  into  the  hominy  first,  then  the  whites, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  if  not  already  salted,  if  it  is,  one-half  as 
much.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  well  buttered  tin  sheets,  or  pans, 
and  bake  to  a  good  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sardine  Salad — Arrange  a  layer  of  any  kind  of  cooked  fish 
on  a  bed  of  crisp  lettuce.  Split  six  sardines,  and  if  there  are  any 
bones,  remove  them.  Cover  the  fish  with  the  sardine  dressing. 
Over  this  put  the  sardines,  having  the  ends  meet  in  the  center  of 
the  dish.  At  the  base  of  the  dish  make  a  wreath  of  thin  slices  of 
lemon.    Garnish  with  parsley  or  lettuce,  and  serve  at  once. 

Cracker  Toast — Butter  as  many  soda  crackers  as  will  be 
eaten  and  place  them  in  a  dripping  pan.  Set  the  pan  in  the 
oven  until  the  crackers  assume  a  golden  brown  color.  Serve  very 
hot. 

Fairy  Gingerbread — One  cupful  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of 
milk,  four  of  flour,  one-third  teaspoon  soda,  one  tablespoonful 
ginger.  Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream;  add  the  sugar,  gradually,  and 
when  light,  the  ginger;  the  milk  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dis- 
solved, and  finally  the  flour.  Turn  baking  pans  upside  down  and 
wipe  the  bottoms  very  clean.  Butter  them  and  spread  the  cake 
very  thin  upon  them.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown. 
While  still  hot  cut  into  squares  with  a  cake  knife  and  slip  from 
the  pan.  Keep  in  a  tin  box.  This  is  delicious.  With  this  quantity 
enough  for  several  days  may  be  made.  Remember  to  spread  it  as 
thin  as  a  wafer  and  cut  it  the  instant  it  is  taken  from  the  oven. 

Scotch  Roll — Remove  the  tough  skin  from  about  five  pounds 
of  the  flank  of  beef.  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  meat  from  the  thick 
part  and  lay  it  upon  the  thin.  Mix  together  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  pepper,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  clove, 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  summer  savory.  Sprinkle  this  over  the 
meat  and  then  sprinkle  with  three  tablespoonfuls  vinegar.  Roll 
up  and  tie  with  twine.    Put  away  in  a  cold  place  for  twelve  hours. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  49 

When  it  has  stood  so  long,  place  it  in  a  stew  pan,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water  and  simmer  gently  for  three  hours  and  a  half.  Mix 
four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  half  a  cupful  of  cold 
water  and  stir  into  the  gravy.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  simmer  half  an  hour  longer.  Good,  either  hot  or 
cold. 

Cheese  Custards — Six  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese,  two  of 
butter,  four  eggs,  one  cup  milk  with  a  teaspoonful  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  it,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light 
and  pour  upon  them  the  heated  milk  with  the  cornstarch  and  a 
pinch  of  soda  in  it.  While  warm  add  butter,  pepper,  salt  and 
cheese,  and  pour  into  greased  custard  cups.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
about  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  high  and  brown.  Serve  at  once, 
with  bread  and  butter  as  a  separate  course  before  dessert. 

Shells — Use  twice  the  quantity  of  shells  that  you  would  of 
broken  cocoa  and  boil  twice  as  long.  Harriet  Mann. 

No.  1421  Central  avenue,  Evanston,  111. 


SATURDAY,  JANUARY  THE  THIRTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Jellied  apples.  Cream  omelet. 

Fried  slices  of  breakfast  food. 

Breakfast    puffs    and    plum    butter. 

French  filtered  coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Fried  oysters.  Gooseberry  jam. 

Parker  house  rolls  and  butter. 

Cream  slaw.  Saratoga  chips. 

Walnut  wafers.     Tea. 


DINNER. 

Vegetable  soup. 

Roast  beef.      Quirled  potatoes.      Fried  parsnips. 

Sweet  pickled  peaches. 

Orange  Charlotte  with  whipped  cream. 

Gr-aham  cake.      Coffee. 


Jellied  Apples — Pare  and  remove  cores  from  tart  apples,  leav- 
ing them  whole.  Set  in  earthen  baking  dish  and  fill  cavities  with 
sugar;  pour  water  about  them,  cover  and  bake  slowly  till  soft. 
Allow  them  to  cool  and  jelly  before  serving. 

Cream  Omelet — Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  six  eggs  sepa- 
rately till  dry;  salt  and  pepper  the  whites;  add  one  tablespoon  of 
cream  for  every  egg.  Do  not  allow  eggs  to  stand  after  beating. 
Have  a  smooth  frying  pan  heated,  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in 


50  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

it;  beat  the  whites,  yolks  and  cream  lightly  together  and  pour 
into  the  pan;  allow  it  to  stand  till  it  commences  to  brown,  then 
set  in  oven  to  dry  the  top.  Fold  together  and  turn  on  a  hot 
platter.  Heated  minced  chicken,  veal  or  ham  may  be  scattered 
between  the  fold  or  it  may  be  spread  with  jam  or  jelly.  Serve  at 
once. 

Orange  Charlotte — Juice  of  two  oranges  and  lemon,  one-half 
cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  gelatine.  Melt  the  gelatine  in  a  cup 
of  warm  water,  add  sugar  and  juice,  strain;  add  grated  yellow 
rind  of  one  orange;  pour  on  large  platter,  and  when  it  begins  to 
set  mix  in  thoroughly  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs;  pour  into 
mold  or  serve  in  glass  dish,  roughly  piled,  with  whipped  cream,  if 
wished. 

Walnut  Wafers — One  cup  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  cup 
butter,  one  cup  walnut  meats,  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Chop  nuts 
fine,  beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  well-beaten 
egg,  the  flour  and  stir  in  the  nuts;  drop  in  spoonfuls  on  buttered 
tins  and  flatten  a  little.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Graham  Cake — Take  one  cup  each  of  raisins,  sugar  and  sour 
cream;  stew  raisins  till  tender  and  add  flour  to  them;  one  tea- 
spoon each  of  allspice  and  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  soda, 
pinch  of  salt;  stir  stiff  with  sifted  graham  flour  and  bake.  An  ex- 
cellent cake.    The  addition  of  two  eggs  makes  it  better. 

Sherbrooke,  N.  D.  Mrs.  M.  B.  Cassell. 


SUNDAY,  JANUARY  THE  THIRTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Iced  apples. 

Farinose  and  cream.  Corn  cake. 

Snow  fritters.         Maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Sardine  salad.  Scalloped  potatoes. 

Pulled  bread.  Cheese  puffs. 

Bromo. 


DINNER. 

Mock  oyster  soup. 

Walled  chicken.  Parsnip  cakes. 

Buttermilk  bread  and  butter. 

Graham   fruit   pudding,    with   sauce. 

Tea. 


Iced  Apples — Pare  and  core  six  tart  apples;  fill  each  one  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg; 
bake  until  nearly  done;  make  lemon  icing  of  two  tablespoons  of 
sweet  milk  and  six  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar;  add  a  half- 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  51 

teaspoonful  of  lemon  essence;  beat  briskly,  and  when  the  apples 
are  cold  frost  the  top  and  sides;  set  in  oven  a  minute  to  brown 
slightly.    They  are  sometimes  served  with  cream. 

Snow  Fritters — Mix  a  half-pint  of  milk  with  a  liberal  pint 
of  flour;  when  a  thick  batter  is  obtained  add  a  half -teaspoon  of 
salt  and  finally  a  cup  of  light  snow  (snow  must  be  light  and  dry); 
fry  the  fritters  in  a  kettle  of  hot  fat  as  soon  as  possible,  keep- 
ing the  batter  where  it  is  cold  between  each  frying.  This  dish 
can  be  varied  by  adding  a  finely  chopped  apple  and  an  egg,  mak- 
ing snow  pancakes. 

Many  dainty  dishes  and  cakes  may  be  made  deliciously  light 
by  adding  a  cupful  or  bowlful  of  new-fallen  snow  in  its  season. 

Sardine  Salad — Wash  the  oil  from  a  box  of  domestic  oil  sar- 
dines; remove  bone  and  skin;  put  in  salad  bowl  with  two  bunches 
of  crisp  lettuce  well  washed;  chip  up  the  yolks  of  four  hard- 
boiled  eggs;  make  a  dressing  by  mixing  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar  with  six  of  good  salad  oil  or  melted  butter,  an  even  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper;  mix  all  to- 
gether; serve  at  once. 

Pulled  Bread — When  making  waterbread  take  dough  enough 
for  a  loaf  and  divide  it  into  eight  equal  parts.  Roll  these  pieces 
into  strands  the  length  of  the  breadpan,  and  placing  the  strands 
close  together  pinch  them  into  one  piece  of  dough  at  one  end. 
Braid  the  strands  as  if  they  were  pieces  of  ribbon.  Press  the 
braided  mass  until  it  is  the  size  of  the  pan  and  put  it  in  the  pan. 
Let  it  rise,  and  bake  like  the  other  bread.  Let  it  stand  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes  after  it  comes  from  the  oven;  then  tear  it  apart  in 
long,  thin  pieces.  Spread  these  in  a  large  dripping  pan  or  tin 
sheet  and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  until  brown  and  crisp — a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour.  Serve  hot.  The  work  shoul'd  be  so  timed  that  the 
bread  will  be  ready  for  the  oven  one  hour  and  three-quarters 
before  time  for  serving.  The  bread  may  be  prepared  any  time 
and  heated  again  when  desired  for  the  table,  but  is  best  fresh. 

Cheese  Puffs — Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  four  of  flour, 
four  of  grated  cheese,  one  cupful  of  water,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one-fifth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  and  two  eggs.  Put  the 
butter  and  water  on  the  stove  in  a  saucepan.  Mix  the  flour, 
cheese,  salt  and  pepper  and  stir  the  mixture  into  the  boiling  liquid 
in  the  saucepan.  Cook  for  three  minutes,  beating  all  the  while; 
then  remove  from  the  fire  and  cool.  Then  add  the  eggs,  unbeaten 
and  one  at  a  time.  Beat  batter  five  minutes.  Butter  a  baking  pan 
and  drop  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  the  mixture  in  it  for  each  puff. 
Leave  considerable  space  between  them,  as  they  rise  to  three, 
times  their  original  size.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about 
twenty  minutes.    Serve  hot. 

Mock  Oyster  Soup — One  full  cup  of  tomatoes,  two-thirds  cup 
of  picked  codfish  (left-over  cod  will  answer),  two  cups  of  boil- 
ing water,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  piece  of  soda  size  of  two 
peas;  boil  all  together  twenty  minutes;  rub  through  a  colander; 
return  to  saucepan  with  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  added,  and  boil 


52  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

five  minutes;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  with 
crackers. 

Walled  Chicken — One  fowl,  eight  potatoes,  medium-sized,  two 
eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  half-cup  of  milk,  three  cupfuls 
of  chicken  stock  (the  water  in  which  the  fowl  was  boiled),  one 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion,  one  sprig  of  parsley,  one  slice  of 
carrot,  a  bay  leaf,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Stew 
the  fowl  tender  the  day  before  using.  Let  it  cool  in  the 
stock  water,  then  free  it  from  skin  and  bone  and  cut  in  pieces 
suitable  for  serving.  Sprinkle  with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Pare  potatoes  and  put  to  boil  an  hour  before  dinner.  Fifteen 
minutes  after  prepare  the  chicken  thus:  Put  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  into  a  frying-pan  with  the  vegetables  and  herbs  and  cook 
slowly  for  five  minutes;  add  the  flour  and  stir  smooth.  Do  not 
brown  it.  Gradually  add  the  cold  chicken  stock.  When  the  liquid 
boils  up  add  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt;  simmer  flve  minutes.  Pour  this  sauce  over  the  chicken; 
simmer  ten  minutes  and  keep  hot.  Cook  potatoes  one-half  hour; 
pour  off  the  water;  heat  the  milk;  mash  smooth;  add  hot  milk, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat 
the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  froth  and  stir  into  the  potato.  Heat  a 
stone-china  platter;  arrange  the  potato  as  a  border  around  the 
center  of  the  dish.  Beat  together  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  water  and  spread  over  the  potato.  Bake  for  ten 
minutes,  then  pour  the  chicken  mixture  into  the  center  of  the  bor- 
der. Any  kind  of  cold  meat,  game  or  flsh  can  be  treated  this 
way. 

Buttermilk  Bread — One  quart  of  sour  buttermilk,  one  large 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  quarts  and  three- 
quarters  of  flour.  Heat  the  buttermilk  to  the  boiling  point,  stir- 
ring frequently  to  prevent  curdling.  Add  the  sugar  and  pour  in 
a  large  bowl.  Now  gradually  sift  into  this  mixture  one  quart  of 
flour,  •  stirring  constantly.  Beat  well,  cover  and  let  stand  in  a 
warm  room  over  night,  say  from  9:30  p.  m.  to  6:30  a.  m.  In  the 
morning  dissolve  the  soda  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and 
add  to  the  batter  with  the  salt  and  butter  melted.  Beat  thorough- 
ly; gradually  beat  in  the  remainder  of  the  flour,  reserving  a  half- 
cupful  for  kneading.  Knead  fifteen  minutes.  Divide  into  three 
parts  and  shape  into  loaves.  Place  in  buttered  pans  and  bake 
immediately  one  hour. 

Graham  Fruit  Pudding — Two  cupfuls  graham  flour,  one  cup- 
ful of  currants  or  raisins,  one  cupful  sweet  milk,  one  cupful 
molasses,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  soda. 
Mix  all  together.  Pour  this  thin  batter  into  the  pudding  pail  and 
boil  two  and  one-half  hours. 

Sauce — One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  same  of  cornstarch, 
one  cup  of  boiling  water;  mix.  Add  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Boil  up  once  and  serve. 

Janesville,  Wis.  Shirlie  De  Forest. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  53 

MONDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  prunes. 

Rolled  oats.         Sugar  and  cream.         Boiled  ham. 

Scrambled  eggs. 

Entire  wheat  flour  mufiins.        Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Baked  beans,  with  bacon. 

Cold  slaw.  Apple  sauce. 

Boston  brown  bread. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

New  England  boiled  dinner. 

Mustard  sauce. 

Thinly  sliced  brown  bread  and  butter. 

Apple  and  tapioca  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Scrambled  Eggs — Put  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk  in 
an  earthen  dish  and  set  it  on  the  range  to  heat.  When  it  is  near 
the  boiling  point  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  small  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Break  into  this  one  at  a  time  five  eggs.  Use 
a  knife  and  stir  gently  from  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  dish  until 
the  eggs  are  well  cooked,  but  not  too  hard.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter 
with  a  little  pepper  sifted  over  them. 

Entire  Wheat  Muffins — Sift  thoroughly  with  one  and  a  half 
pints  of  entire  wheat  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Add 
to  this  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  to  which  has  been 
added  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter.  After  these  ingredients  are  well  mixed  and  just 
before  putting  into  well-greased  muffin  rings  add  the  white  of  the 
egg  well  beaten.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes,  or  until 
nicely  browned. 

Baked  Beans — Soak  over  night  one  pint  of  small  white  or 
navy  beans.  In  the  morning  put  them  to  boil,  with  plenty  of 
water  to  cover  them,  and  add  more  if  it  becomes  absorbed.  Boil 
with  them  one-half  pound  of  breakfast  bacon,  after  having  cut  off 
the  rind  and  outside.  Let  them  boil  gently  until  tender,  but  not  soft 
enough  to  break  to  pieces;  then,  just  before  taking  from  the  flre, 
add  one-half  teacupful  New  Orleans  molasses.  Let  all  boil  up 
once,  then  pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Cut  the  bacon  in 
slices  and  lay  on  top  of  beans.  Put  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  until 
well  browned,  which  will  take  from  one  and  a  half  to  two  hours. 

New  England  Boiled  Dinner — Three  pounds  of  corned  beef 
taken  from  the  round.    Wash  it  in  cold  water  and  put  over  the 


54  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

fire  in  a  large  kettle  with  siiftlcient  cold  water  to  cover  it  three 
or  four  inches.  Set  where  it  will  slowly  come  to  the  boiling  point. 
Skim  well  and  let  it  boil  slowly  three  hours.  After  the  meat  is 
put  to  cook,  wash  two  or  three  beets  carefully,  without  breaking 
the  skin  or  cutting  the  roots,  and  put  them  to  boil  in  another 
kettle  with  plenty  of  actually  boiling  water.  Then  peel  two  large 
white  turnips  and  one  small  yellow  one,  cut  in  quarters,  scrape 
two  parsnips  and  two  carrots  and  half  a  dozen  good-sized  potatoes; 
lay  all  in  cold  water  until  time  to  add  them  to  the  meat.  Save 
half  of  the  head  of  cabbage  used  for  the  co],d  slaw,  cut  the  stalk 
out  without  breaking  the  leaves  apart,  bind  it  with  twine  and 
keep  it  whole  while  cooking.  The  vegetables  except  the  beets  are 
to  be  added  to  the  meat  in  proper  succession,  allowing  sufficient 
time  for  each  to  cook.  The  carrots,  parsnips  and  turnips  will 
boil  in  about  one  hour,  the  cabbage  in  about  the  same  time,  the 
potatoes  in  about  half  an  hour.  The  beets  will  take  from  two  to 
three  hours,  according  to  size,  and,  if  liked  cold,  may  be  cooked 
in  the  morning.  When  tender  put  in  cold  water  for  a  few  min- 
utes, rub  off  the  skins,  drain  and  slice  crosswise  and  lay  slices  in 
a  vegetable  dish.  Sprinkle  salt  over  them  and  vinegar  enough  to 
almost  cover  them.  When  the  boiled  dinner  is  served  put  the 
meat  in  the  center  of  a  large  platter  and  arrange  the  vegetables 
around  it.  A  dish  of  stewed  squash  is  liked  by  some  with  a  boiled 
dinner.  If  the  beef  is  not  fresh  corned,  it  should  be  soaked  in 
plenty  of  water  over  night,  and  the  water  should  also  be  changed 
several  times  during  the  cooking. 

Mustard  Sauce — After  the  meat  has  been  boiling  two  hours 
take  a  pint  of  the  broth  to  use  for  the  sauce.  Peel  and  chop  a 
small  onion  fine,  add  to  the  broth  and  boil  half  an  hour;  then  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  dry  mustard,  a  gill  of  vinegar  and  a  high  sea- 
soning of  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  the  sauce  until  it  is  thoroughly 
incorporated  and  keep  hot  until  required  for  the  meat.  The  sauce 
is  a  very  nice  addition  to  corned  beef. 

Apple  and  Tapioca  Pudding — This  may  be  made  in  the  morn- 
ing, for  it  is  best  cold.  Soak  one  teacupful  of  pearl  tapioca  over 
night  in  water;  peel  half  a  dozen  tart  apples,  cut  in  quarters,  lay 
in  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon, 
pour  the  tapioca  over  the  apple,  sprinkle  again  with  the  sugar, 
add  a  few  bits  of  butter  and  water  enough  to  come  up  over  the 
apples;  cover  and  bake  one  hour;  serve  with  sugar. 

Mrs.  W.  T.  Welles. 

Elrnwood,  Peoria  County,  111. 


TUESDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheatlets.  Sugar  and  cream. 

Breakfast  sausage. 

Apples   baked   with   jelly. 

Corn  muffins.  Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  55 

LUNCHEON. 

Rumbled  eggs  and  sardines. 

Whole  wheat  bread  and  butter. 
Fig  janj.  Cocoa.. 

DINNER. 

Puree  of  carrots. 

Roast  neck  of  mutton,  with  dressing. 

Baked  potatoes.  Canned  peas. 

Date  pudding.        Hard  sauce. 

Coffee. 


Breakfast  Sausage — Chop  one  pound  of  lean  fresh  pork,  and  add 
to  it  half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage  leaves,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  black  pepper;  mix  thoroughly 
and  form  into  small  cakes;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  dripping  into 
a  frying-pan ;  when  hot  fill  with  the  cakes,  fry  until  nicely  browned 
on  both  sides;  remove  frdm  the  pan,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
to  the  fat  in  the  pan.  Mix,  add  a  small  cup  of  milk.  Stir  until  it 
boils,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  the  sausages. 

Baked  Apples — Wash  three  good-sized  sweet  apples  and  halve 
them  from  stem  to  blossom.  Do  not  peel,  but  remove  cores  and 
fill  with  currant  jelly.  Bake  until  apples  are  tender  and  serve 
with  sugar  and  cream. 

Corn  Muflins — One  cup  yellow  cornmeal,  one-half  cup  of  fiour, 
one  large  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  one  beaten  egg,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sweet 
milk,  a  saltspoonful  salt;  bake  in  hot  greased  gem  pans. 

Rumbled  Eggs^Take  a  small  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two 
of  cream  or  milk,  warm  in  a  frying-pan.  Break  four  eggs,  or  more 
if  needed,  in  the  pan  and  stir  until  slightly  cooked;  then  add  four 
sardines  broken  in  small  pieces,  from  which  the  skin  and  large 
bones  have  been  removed.  Pour  over  one-half  tablespoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  serve  hot.  A  good  recipe  for  cooking  in 
chafing  dish. 

Fig  Jam — Take  one  pound  of  good  figs,  chop  fine  and  put 
them  on  to  cook  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water 
and  half  a  grated  nutmeg.  Cook  until  thick;  place  in  a  wet  mold, 
and  when  cold  they  are  ready  to  serve.  Will  keep  some  time  if 
put  in  glasses  and  sealed. 

Puree  of  Carrots — Boil  enough  carrots  to  make  a  pint  after 
being  rubbed  through  a  colander.  Put  one  and  one-half  pints 
of  milk,  carrots  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  over  the  fire;  when 
boiling  add  three  small  tablespoonfuls  of  fiour  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  milk;  stir  constantly  as  it  boils;  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  butter  and  a  dash  of  pepper  just  before  taking  from  fire. 

Roast  Mutton — Boil  a  neck  piece  of  mutton  until  so  tender 
that  the  bones  will  slip  out;  then  press  the  meat  closely  together, 
shaping  nicely  with  the  hands.    Place  in  a  dripping-pan,  and  over 


56  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

the  meat  spread  a  thick  dressing  of  bread  crumbs  seasoned  with 
butter,  salt,  pepper  and  sage,  and  pour  in  the  pan  the  pot  liquor; 
bake  until  brown,  basting  frequently.  A  nice  dish  at  a  small 
expense,  and  is  excellent  sliced  cold  for  luncheon.  Beef  may 
be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Date  Pudding — Shred  and  chop  fine  one  cup  of  suet.  Beat 
the  suet,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  together 
until  light,  then  add  one  cup  of  milk  and  three  cups  of  flour. 
Beat  until  smooth,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Mix  well  and  add  one 
pound  of  washed,  stoned  and  chopped  dates,  slightly  floured; 
turn  into  a  greased  mold  and  boil  continuously  for  three  hours. 
Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce.  Mrs.  Marion  C.  Wilson. 

No.  6407  Lexington  Avenue,  Chicago. 


WEDNESDAY,   FEBRUARY   THE   THIRD. 

BREAKFAST. 

Graham  fruit  mush  with  cream. 

Breakfast  shortcake. 

Fried  cornmeal  muffins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Curried  rabbit. 

Brown  biscuits.  Potato  omelet. 

Fruit  pinwheels. 

Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

White  soup. 

Sponge  steak. 

Potato  puffs.  Parsnip  fritters. 

Winter  succotash. 

Peach  cream  tart.  Coffee. 


Graham  Fruit  Mush— Stir  into  a  quart  of  slightly  salted  boil- 
ing water  .one  and  one-half  teacupfuls  coarse  graham  flour.  Boil 
twenty  minutes;  then  stir  into  it  a  half  teacupful  rich  milk  and 
one  teacupful  of  chopped  dates,  scalded  and  stoned,  or  a  cupful 
of  figs  treated  in  the  same  way,  or  a  cup  of  canned  blackberries, 
drained  and  sweetened,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  the  juice.  Plain 
graham  mush  is  excellent  cut  in  slices,  when  cold,  dipped  in 
beaten  egg  and  rolled  bread  crumbs,  and  fried  in  hot  lard. 

Breakfast  Shortcake— Sift  and  mix  thoroughly  a  scant  quart 
of  fiour,  two  heapefd  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  teaspoon- 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  57 

ful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  rub  into  this  one  tablespoon- 
ful  each  of  lard  and  butter  and  add  sweet  milk  enough  to  form, 
a  dough  just  stiff  enough  to  roll  out;  roll  rather  less  than  half 
an  inch  thick  and  bake  in  light  layer-cake  pans;  have  ready  two 
teacups  of  finely  chopped  meat  and  one-half  teacup  chopped  or 
mashed  cold  potato;  heat  this  on  a  skillet,  with  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  half-teacup  water,  a  cup  milk,  a  quarter  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  a  good  pinch  of  pepper;  thicken  this  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together;  spilt  the 
cakes,  butter  them,  and  spread  the  creamed  meat  between;  there 
will  be  three  thin  layers,  and  if  liked  one  can  be  reserved  to  have 
a  layer  of  berries,  peaches,  prunes  or  other  fruit  between  and 
sprinkled  with  sugar  while  hot. 

Fried  Cornmeal  Muffins — Mix  one  pint  sifted  Indian  meal 
with  one-half  teaspoonful  salt  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar; 
pour  gradually  on  this  one  pint  boiling  water;  cover  after  beating 
well  and  set  away  until  morning;  add  two  well-beaten  eggs;  beat 
thoroughly;  dip  a  tablespoon  in  cold  milk  and  with  the  wet  spoon 
dip  up  the  batter  by  the  tablespoonful  and  fry  in  boiling  lard; 
turn  each  once  while  cooking.  ^ 

Curried  Rabbit — Joint  and  soak  a  rabbit  half  an  hour  in  cold, 
salted  water.  Drain  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  quarter- 
pound  of  salt  pork  cut  into  strips,  and  a  medium-sized  onion, 
sliced  fine.  Stew  slowly  in  just  enough  cold  water  to  cover,  about 
an  hour,  or  until  tender.  Boil  a  teacup  of  rice  in  three  cups  of 
water  in  a  separate  vessel;  when  nearly  done  add  half  the  juice 
of  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  let  it  cook  slowly  until  the  rice  has  ab- 
sorbed the  juice.  When  the  rabbit  is  tender  add  to  the  rice  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  cream,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  good  pinch  of  curry  powder  and  make  a  border  two  inches 
high  of  the  rice  around  a  very  hot  platter.  Take  out  the  rabbit 
and  strips  of  pork,  lay  them  inside  the  wall  of  rice;  add  to  the 
gravy  in  the  saucepan  a  cup  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
a  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder;  thicken  with  a  tabtespoonful  of 
flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  very  little  cold  milk;  add  the  traditional 
squeeze  of  lemon  juice,  without  v/hich  no  curry  is  complete,  boil 
up  and  stir;  pour  over  the  rabbit  and  serve  at  once. 

Potato  Omelet  (no  eggs) — Boil  and  mash  nine  medium-sized 
potatoes;  beat  until  light  and  foamy.  Add  one  level  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one-third  teaspoonful  of 
pepper,  one-half  cup  of  hot  milk;  put  one  large  tablespoonful  of 
butter  into  the  frying-pan;  heat,  but  do  not  brown;  turn  the  potato 
mixture  into .  it,  spreading  smoothly.  Cover  and  set  the  pan 
where  the  omelet  will  brown  slowly  and  steadily.  It  will  take 
about  ten  minutes.  Fold  it,  turn  on  a  very  hot  dish.  Do  not  let 
it  wait  a  moment  after  taking  it  up. 

Brown  Biscuit — Set  a  dough  over  night  of  two  cups  of  graham 
flour,  one  cup  white  flour,  one  cup  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  four  tablespoonfuls  good 
yeast;  in  the  morning  knead,  adding  one  large  tablespoonful 
melted  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water 


58  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

before  kneading;  cover  closely;  keep  moderately  warm;  one  hour 
before  lunch  roll  out  a  half-inch  thick,  cut  with  a  cake  cutter, 
range  in  a  greased  pan,  glazing  the  tops  with  melted  butter;  bake 
quickly  when  light. 

Fruit  Pin-Wheels — Roll  out  pie  crust  thin,  and  cut  into  strips 
about  three  inches  wide  and  six  or  eight  inches  long;  spread 
with  marmalade,  peach  butter  or  thick  jam  or  firm  jelly;  roll 
up,  fasten  the  edges  firmly  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven;  when 
sliced  across  the  little  spirals  are  very  pretty. 

White  Soup — Boil  four  large  potatoes,  six  tomatoes,  four 
small  onions,  in  two  quarts  of  water  until  soft;  rub  through  a 
colander;  add  four  tablespoonfuls  crushed  tapioca.  Boil  twenty 
minutes  longer;  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  each  salt  and  sweet  marjoram  and  a  half-teaspoonful 
pepper.  Heat  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk;  thicken  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful  each  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together;  pour  this  into  the 
soup;  boil  up;  pour  into  a  hot  tureen  and  serve  with  small 
squares  of  toasted  bread.  This  is  sufficient  for  at  least  two  din- 
ners. 

Sponge  Steak — Put  two  and  one-half  pounds  of  round  steak 
into  a  covered  saucepan  with  just  as  little  cold  water  as  will 
answer  and  let  it  cook  slowly  until  it  falls  to  pieces.  Remove 
bones,  fat  and  gristle  and  mince  "exceeding  fine";  add  one 
small  teaspoonful  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  pepper,  one  table- 
spoonful  catchup,  one  pinch  nutmeg.  Press  out  the  juice,  work 
in  one  unbeaten  egg  and  form  into  cakes  four  inches  long  by  three 
wide.  Brown  in  hot  butter  and  lay  on  a  bed  of  parsley.  Add  to  the 
juice  a  full  tablespoonful  butter,  a  cup  of  milk,  a  half-cup  water, 
one-third  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoon  of  pepper;  thicken 
slightly  and  pour  round  the  steak.  A  half-can  of  mushrooms  or 
a  dozen  oysters  with  their  liquor  make  a  nice  sauce  for  this  ex- 
cellent steak. 

Winter  Succotash — Soak  a  pint  each  of  dried  corn  and  lima 
beans  over  night.  Next  day  cook  them  separately  until  tender. 
A  pinch  of  soda  in  each  vessel  hastens  the  process.  Cut  a  thin 
slice  of  salt  pork  into  tiny  dice  and  divide  it  between  them. 
When  they  are  tender  put  them  together,  adding  a  large  cupful 
of  rich  milk,  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  a  half-teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Many  prefer  a  can  of  sweet 
corn  to  the  dried.  Let  the  milk  boil  up  once,  then  turn  into  a 
hot  dish. 

Parsnip  Fritters — Scrape  and  boil  tender  two  large  parsnips. 
Rub  through  a  colander  and  mash.  Beat  in  one  egg,  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Make  into  small,  flat 
cakes,  flour  slightly  and  fry  on  a  griddle  in  butter  or  good  drip- 
ping.   Brown  on  both  sides. 

Creamed  Peach  Tart — Line*'  a  deep  pie  dish  with  good  pie 
crust  and  nearly  flll  it  (two-thirds  full)  with  slices  of  canned 
peaches  that  have  been  dropped  into  boiling  sirup  and  cooked 
for  two  or  three  minutes.     Cover    with    not    the  very  thinnest 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  59 

crust  and  do  not  pinch  down  the  edges.  When  done  allow  it  to 
cool,  raise  up  the  top  crust  and  pour  in  the  follov/ing  cream, 
which  should  cool  for  a  few  moments  before  being  poured  in: 
One  small  cupful  of  milk,  heated  to  boiling;  one  tablespoonful 
of  white  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  wet  in  cold 
milk.  Let  it  boil  well,  then  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth  before  removing  from  the  fire,  then  add  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Mrs.  Mary  J.  Bouton. 

No.  1841  Pendleton  Avenue,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 


THURSDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Boiled  hominy  with  cream. 

Scotch  eggs.  Breakfast  rolls. 

Stewed  raisins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Pigs  in  blankets. 

Brown  bread  and  butter.  Tea  jelly. 

Macaroons. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Veal  loaf.  Baked  potatoes. 

Oyster  salad.  Wafers. 

Apple  snow  with  custard  sauce. 

Coffee. 


Tea  Jelly — Dissolve  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  just  enough 
water  to  cover  it.  Add  one  pint  of  strong  hot  tea  and  one  cupful 
of  sugar.  Stir  well  a,nd  strain  into  molds.  Serve  very  cold,  with 
cream  and  sugar. 

Oyster  Salad — Boil  a  pint  of  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  until 
they  plump.  Drain,  cool,  chop  and  mix  with  an  equal  amount 
of  celery  or  lettuce.  Pour  on  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  serve 
with  wafers. 

Apple  Snow — Core  and  quarter,  but  do  not  pare,  three  large 
tart  apples.  Stew  until  tender  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Beat 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  stiff,  add  one-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  beat  again.  Add  the  apple  and  beat  until  like  snow.  Pile 
lightly  in  a  dish  and  serve  v/ith  the  following  sauce: 

Custard  Sauce — One  pint  of  milk,  the  j^olks  of  three  eggs,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cornstarch,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Cook 
in  a  saucepan  set  in  boiling  water.  Mrs.  C.  V.  Stockdaie. 

No.  291  Ontario  Street,  Chicago, 


60       THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 
FRIDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Halved  oranges. 

Purina  wheat,  with  butter  and  sugar  or  cream. 

Meat  slices  warmed  in  gravy. 

Johnny  cake.  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Peas  on  toast. 

Steamed  graham  bread.  Jam. 

Vanities. 

Tea  or  malted  milk. 


DINNER. 

Steamed  beef.  Creamed  parsnips. 

Baked  peeled  potatoes. 

Chow-chow. 

Baked  apple  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Meat  Slices — Place  about  a  dozen  thin  slices  of  any  cold  roast 
or  boiled  meat  (this  has  special  reference  to  the  roast  described 
below)  in  a  saucepan.  Sprinkle  over  this  a  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
bits  of  butter,  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  all  a 
small  half-cup  of  water.  Cover  and  bring  to  heat  just  sufficient 
to  cook  the  gravy.  This  is  nice  for  a  luncheon  dish,  with  eight 
sliced  olives  warmed  with  the  gravy. 

Peas  on  Toast — Pour  a  can  of  sweet,  small  peas  into  a  sauce- 
pan to  cook  until  tender.  Into  this  stir  the  following:  A  half- 
cup  butter,  beaten  to  a  cream,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and 
a  quarter  teaspoon  of  salt.  Add  a  half -cup  of  hot  water.  Pour  the 
peas  and  gravy  over  six  light-brown  slices  of  toast,  arranged  on 
a  large  platter.     Serve  quite  hot. 

Steamed  Graham  Bread — Place  slices  of  stale  bread  side  by 
side  in  a  steamer  or  colander  over  a  kettle  of  water  and  cover 
over  the  top  with  folded  clean  cloth.  Steam  only  long  enough 
to  make  bread  moist  and  hot. 

Vanities — Beat  two  eggs  very  light,  add  half  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  flour  to  roll.  Take  a  piece  of  dough  as  large  as  a  hickory 
nut,  roll  as  thin  as  paper,  cut  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  They  will 
be  done  in  a  few  seconds.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  This 
will  make  enough  for  two  luncheons  (rewarming  the  second 
day  in  a  hot  oven  a  moment).     They  are  crisp  and  light. 

Malted  Milk — This  very  healthful  drink  can  be  easily  made, 
from  directions  on  the  bottles  which  all  druggists  keep. 

Steamed  Beef — Have  ribs  only  removed  from  a  two-rib  roast. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  61 

Roll  up  and  tie  witii'  a  cord.  Rinse  in  boiling  water.  Place  it 
in  an  inch  of  boiling  water  in  a  tbree-quart  tin  pan  whose  depth 
equals  the  height  of  the  beef.  Cover  tightly  and  set  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  three  hours.  After  it  has  cooked  about  an  hour 
sprinkle  with  a  small  teaspoon  of  salt.  It  needs  no  watching. 
When  done  let  it  stand  for  ten  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  uncovered. 
This  is  more  tender  than  the  usual  roast  and  richer  in  nourish- 
ment than  a  boiled  piece.  Remove  the  meat  and  thicken  the 
liquid  in  pan  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  flour.  The 
gravy  that  is  not  wanted  for  dinner  should  be  poured  over  the 
meat.    The  meat  will  be  nice  in  any  way  for  the  next  day. 

Creamed  Parsnips — Peel  and  cut  in  two  six  medium-sized 
parsnips,  slice  lengthwise.  Cook  two  sliced  sweet  potatoes  with 
these.  Y/hen  tender  add  hot  water  enough  to  the  water  in  which 
they  were  boiled  to  make  about  a  cupful.  Stir  in  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  yolk 
,of  an  egg,  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper. 
Boil  one  moment.     Delicious. 

Apple  Pudding — Six  large,  pleasant  apples,  slice  thin,  lay  in 
a  pudding-dish.  Bring  quart  of  skim  milk  to  boiling  point.  Stir 
in  two  dessert  spoonfuls  of  cornstarch  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk. 
When  smooth  and  thick  remove  from  fire.  Carefully  stir  in  two 
well-beaten  eggs  and  a  half-cup  of  sugar.  Pour  this  custard  over 
the  apples  and  bake  until  tender.  Serve  cold  with  the  cream 
taken  from  the  milk,  sweetened  and  flavored  to  taste. 

Mrs.  C.  T.  Lindley. 

No.  1504  Brady.  Street,  Davenport,  Iowa. 


SATURDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cracked  wheat  with  cream. 

Fried  mush.  Baked  apples. 

Doughnuts.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 
London  potatoes.  French  Beans. 

Gingerbread.  Hot  milk  or  tea. 


DINNER. 

Bean  soup. 

Jellied  chicken.  Baked  tomatoes. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Home  salad. 
Dainty  dessert. 


62  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

Fried  Mush — Slice  well-cooked  mush  (^tiff  enough  to  mold 
nicely  in  greased  pan  or  dish  about  one-quarter  inch  thick.  Cut 
in  neat  squares  or  oblongs.  Drop  in  smoking  hot  fat  as  you 
would  French-fry  potatoes.  When  a  delicate  brown  lay  on  paper 
a  few  minutes.  Serve  with  or  without  maple  sirup.  Cook  enough 
mush  for  several  mornings.     It  keeps  well  in  a  cold  place. 

Doughnuts — Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  two 
eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  shortening,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  three  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  half-teaspoon  of  grated  nutmeg. 
Mix  as  for  good  cake,  reserving  beaten  v/hites  till  last.  Then 
work  in  two  more  cupfuls  of  flour.  The  dough  should  be  quite 
stiff,  so  as  not  to  absorb  much  fat  while  frying.  This  should 
make  about  50  cents  worth  of  doughnuts,  counting  them  at  10 
cents  a  dozen,  if  the  dough  is  rolled  sufficiently  thin— about  one- 
fourth  inch — as  they  become  very  light  while  cooking. 

London  Potatoes — Fry  slices  of  cold  potato,  about  one-fourth 
inch  thick,  till  a  nice  brown;  lay  them  on  a  hot  dish  and  place 
on  each  piece  a  thin  slice  of  hard-boiled  egg,  allowing  two  eggs 
for  five  persons.     Pour  over  all  the  following,  hot: 

Sauce  Piquante — Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  sift  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  stirring  all  the  time;  add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  then  gradually  one  gill  of  water  and  one  gill  of 
vinegar;  stir  well  until  the  sauce  has  boiled  a  few  moments. 
A  little  parsley  may  be  added. 

French  Beans — Soak  a  pint  of  navy  beans  over  night;  put 
on  to  boil  in  one  quart  of  fresh  water;  at  the  end  of  half  an 
hour  add  one  teaspoonful,  or  less,  salt  and  boil  again  gently  and 
without  breaking  for  another  half  or  three-fourths  of  an  hour; 
meanwhile,  cook  a  very  small  sliced  onion  in  a  cupful  of  tomato 
juice;  strain  or  not,  as  you  choose;  about  this  time  the  beans 
are  done;  thicken  this  with  flour  and  butter;  put  in  half  the 
beans,  well  drained;    re-heat  and  serve. 

Bean  Soup — Thoroughly  mash  the  remaining  half  of  the 
beans;  return  them  to  the  liquor  with  a  small  minced  onion  and 
a  small  handful  of  celery  tops,  dried  and  saved  for  soups;  add 
water  or  stock  if  there  is  not  enough  bean  liquor;  season  to 
taste. 

Jellied  Chicken — Use  the  remnants  of  chicken -from  the  pre- 
vious day's  dinner  and  all  the  clean  bones,  or  save  out  the  wings, 
back,  neck,  liver,  gizzard,  etc.,  for  this  purpose.  Stew  until  the 
meat  readily  drops  from  the  bones.  Juice  of  half  an  onion  is 
an  improvement.  Drain  and  chop  the  meat,  not  too  fine,  and 
mix  in  a  little  celery  seed  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  that 
amount  of  pepper.  Return  the  bones  and  liquor  to  boil  down 
until  you  have  just  sufficient  to  wet  the  chicken,  which  you  have 
meantime  arranged  in  a  dish  to  mold.  Have  three  layers  of 
chicken  in  the  mold.  In  the  two  spaces  between  them  put  thin 
slices  of  hard  boiled  egg.    Put  in  a  cold  place.    One  egg  is  suffi- 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  63 

cient.    It  may  be  omitted.     This  is  so  rich  it  should  be  enough 
for  two  days. 

Baked  Tomatoes — The  tomatoes  from  which  the  juice  was 
drained  at  luncheon  should  be  drained  again  if  still  wet.  Put  a 
thin  layer  of  fine  bread  crumbs  in  a  well-greased  baking  dish,  a 
thick  layer  of  tomatoes,  just  enough  minced  onion  to  flavor  deli- 
cately, many  tiny  bits  of  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  another  thin 
layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Repeat  until  the  dish  is  full,  having 
crumbs  on  top.    Bake  slowly  about  an  hour. 

Salad — Some  string  beans  and  boiled  cabbage  left  from  yes- 
terday's dinner;  and  some  beets  pickled  last  fall,  coarsely 
chopped;  a  tablespoonful  or  more  piled  on  small  lettuce  leaves 
on  each  of  the  necessary  number  of  individual  plates  and  a  thin 
mayonnaise  dressing  over  all.  The  lettuce  can  be  raised  in  a 
roomy  window-box  in  a  sunny  window,  where  it  looks  very 
pretty  growing.  A  few  leaves  may  be  cut  at  a  time  as  needed, 
the  roots  left  to  send  up  more  leaves. 

Dainty  Dessert — One  and  one-half  pints  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
granulated  sugar,  two  dessertspoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar.  Boil 
half  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  corn  starch  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk",  the  granulated  sugar  and  the  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Whip  the  last  in  lightly  and  remove  at 
once  from  the  fire.  Flavor  with  almond.  Put  in  wet  cups  and 
set  away  to  cool.  Boil  the  remaining  half  of  the  milk  in  the 
double  boiler.  Stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  and  pulverized  sugar. 
Strain  into  a  pitcher,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  set  away  to  cool. 
When  serving,  pour  custard  around  each  mold. 

Mrs.  Herman  S.  Piatt. 

No.  501  S.  Mathews  Avenue,  Urbana,  111. 


SUNDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Hominy  and  cream. 

Croquettes  of  odds  and  ends. 

Crushed  wheat  griddle  cakes. 

Figs  and  dates. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Oyster  shortcake. 

Graham  lunch  bread. 

Hot  slaw. 

Italian  afternoon  cakes. 

Chocolate. 


64  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  pea  soup. 

Breast  of  veal — chestnut  stuffing. 

Tomato  sauce. 

Potatoes  baked  with  veal. 

Scalloped  parsnips. 

Plum-pudding  croquettes. 

Lemon  sauce. 

Coffee. 


Croquettes  of  Odds  and  Ends — These  are  made  of  any  scraps 
or  bits  of  good  food  left  over  from  several  meals,  so  little  of  each 
that  they  cannot  be  made  use  of  separately.  For  instance,  two 
spoonfuls  of  frizzled  or  creamed  beef,  one  mutton  chop,  two  hard- 
boiled  feggs,  a  spoonful  of  cold  rice  or  oatmeal.  Remove  all  skin 
and  gristle  from  the  meat,  chop  it  fine,  use  cold  potato  or  rice 
in  proportion  of  tv/o-thirds  meat  to  one  of  potato;  add  a  beaten 
egg  and  a  very  few  bread  crumbs;  m^oisten  if  necessary  with  a 
little  cold  milk;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  catchup,  mold  into 
croquettes,  dip  first  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  rolled  bread 
crumbs,  fry  in  hot  lard.  A  little  cold  chicken,  a  part  of  a  baked 
apple,  improve  the  croquettes. 

Crushed  Wheat  Griddle  Cakes — To  one  large  cupful  of  cooked 
crushed  wheat  add  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  well-beaten  egg. 
Sift  together  one  and  one-half  pints  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  add  gradually  to  the  crushed  wheat.  Bake  on  a  hot 
griddle. 

Figs  and  Dates — Stone  enough  dates  to  fill  a  teacup;  chop 
in  half  enough  figs  for  two  cups.  Wash  both  in  warm  water; 
then  put  into  a  saucepan  with  as  little  cold  water  as  may  be, 
just  enough  to  keep  them  from  burning.  Steam  for  about  twenty 
minutes.  For  most  palates  they  will  not  need  sugar,  but  if  a  rich 
sirup  is  wished  put  a  teacup  of  sugar  into  the  saucepan  when  the 
fruit  is  half  cooked. 

Hot  Slaw — Chop  half  an  ordinary  cabbage  fine  and  sprinkle 
lightly  with  fiour.  Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  oven; 
put  the  cabbage  into  it  and  replace  in  the  oven.  Mix  one  table- 
spoonful  of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful 
of  olive  oil  or  melted  butter,  one  beaten  egg  and  three-fourths 
cup  of  cream.  Heat  thoroughly;  pour  over  the  slaw,  after  sprink- 
ling it  with  salt  and  pepper;    put  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

Italian  Afternoon  Cake — One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  eggs, -one  cup  of  raisins,  currants 
and  citron  mixed  and  chopped  fine,  three  cups  of  fiour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  mixed  with  the  fiour;  flavor  with 
nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  Beat  well,  bake  in  small  pans  or  gem 
pans.    Eat  warm  with  hot  chocolate. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  65 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup — Cook  a  can  of  green  peas  in  just  enough 
hot  water  to  cover,  together  with  a  small  onion  cut  up  fine, 
until  tender.  Mash  and  add  a  pint  of  stock,  or  water;  of  course 
stock  is  best.  Cook  together  until  smooth,  but  not  brown,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  of  flour.  Add  to  the  peas  with 
a  coffee  cup  of  rich  milk  and  one  of  cream.  Season  with  a  half- 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Allow 
it  to  boil  up  once.  Strain  and  serve.  A  teacup  of  whipped 
cream  added  the  last  minute  is  a  most  delightful  addition.  Ten 
cents'  worth  of  cream  will  do  for  both  pea  soup  and  parsnips. 

Stuffed  Shoulder  or  Breast  of  Veal,  with  Chestnut  Dressing — 
Remove  the  bone  from  the  shoulder  of  veal  without  cutting 
through  the  outer  skin.  Take  the  shells  from  twelve  large  chest- 
nuts, boil  and  mash  the  chestnuts,  add  to  them  a  large  teacup 
of  fine  bread  crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  half-teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  hot  water,  juice  of  half 
a  lemon,  a  little  catchup  if  liked.  Put  this  dressing  where  the 
bone  was,  sew  and  truss  the  shoulder  into  shape,  put  into  a 
baking-pan,  the  bones  under  it.  Dredge  with  fiour,  put  a  large 
tablespoon  butter  and  a  small  cup  hot  water  into  the  pan.  Bake 
it,  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound,  basting  occasionally. 
An  hour  before  the  veal  is  done  pare  twelve  medium-sized  pota- 
toes and  put  them  around  the  veal.  As  soon  as  they  are  half  done 
turn  them  so  that  they  may  bake  evenly.  When  they  are  ready 
range  them  round  a  hot  platter,  lay  the  veal  in  the  center.  Put 
a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together  into  the 
baking-pan,  brown  this,  then  add  gradually  one  pint  boiling 
water,  a  scant  teaspbonful  salt,  a  half-teaspoonful  pepper.  Stir, 
let  it  boil  up  once  and  serve  with  meat  and  potatoes.  Five  cents' 
worth  large  chestnuts  will  make  enough  dressing.  Breast  of 
veal  may  be  used  instead  of  shoulder. 

Tomato  Sauce — Put  one  pint  stewed  tomatoes,  with  one  small 
onion,  sliced  fine,  a  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  a  blade  of 
mace,  on  to  cook  and  simmer  slowly  for  ten  minutes.  Melt  three 
teaspoonfuls  butter,  add  to  one  tablespoonful  flour,  mix  until 
smooth.  Mash  tomato  through  colander  or  sieve,  add  flour  and 
butter,  with  a  half-teaspoonful  salt  and  a  quarter-teaspoonful 
pepper;    stir  for  a  moment  and  then  pour  into  a  hot  dish. 

Scalloped  Parsnips — Scrape  and  boil  until  tender.  This  will 
take  about  forty-five  minutes.  Mash  while  hot  a  sufiicient  num- 
ber to  make  a  pint.  Beat  into  this  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
two  of  cream,  a  well-beaten  egg,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  little  pepper.  Butter  a  dish  and  put  in  a  layer  of  crumbs, 
pour  in  a  good  layer  of  the  parsnips,  then  a  layer  of  crumbs, 
until  the  pan  is  full,  using  a  layer  of  crumbs  last.  Sprinkle  a  very 
little  salt  and  pepper  over  the  last  layer,  add  a  tablespoonful 
each  of  melted  butter,  milk  and  hot  water,  and  brown  rapidly 
in  the  oven. 

Plum-Pudding  Croquettes — Put  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  sauce- 
pan on  a  part  of  the  range  where  it  will  be  warm  but  not  hot. 


66  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Crumb  enougli  stale  bread  into  it  to  take  up  the  milk — about  a 
teacupful  of  crumbs.  Let  it  soften,  then  add  one  well-beaten 
egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  one  pinch  each  of  cinnamon  and 
cloves,  one  cupful  of  chopped  fruit,  raisins,  currants,  citron  or 
soft  stoned  prunes  or  dates.  Set  aside  until  perfectly  cold,  then 
form  into  croquettes,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible.  Beat  an 
egg  very  light  and  mix  with  it  one  tablespoonful  of  boiling 
water — the  yolk  alone  makes  too  heavy  a  crust  for  these  delicate 
croquettes.  Do  not  roll  the  croquettes  in  the  cracker  crumbs,  but 
sift  the  crumbs  over  the  croquettes  after  dipping  into  the  egg. 
Fry  carefully  in  hot  lard,  using  the  wire  basket  if  at  hand. 

Lemon  Sauce — Beat  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  butter  with 
a  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
Pour  over  this  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Stir 
until  a  perfectly  smooth  liquid;  add  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon. 
If  preferred,  cut  the  lemon  in  thin  slices,  without  peeling,  and 
put  into  the  sauce;    remove  the  seeds. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Gilman. 

No.  2520  Elma  Street,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 


MONDAY,   FEBRUARY  THE  EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oat  flakes,  with  cream. 

Breakfast  bacon,  with  fried  mush. 

Graham  mufiins.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Oyster  toast.  Potato  salad. 

Bread   and   butter. 

Soft  gingerbread  and  apple  sauce. 

Russian  tea. 


DINNER. 

Mock  bisque  soup. 

Veal  loaf.  Duchesse  potatoes. 

Lemon  cream  pie. 

Coffee. 


Breakfast  Bacon,  with  Fried  Mush — Take  thin  slices  of  break- 
fast bacon  and  fry;  lift  up  and  put  where  it  will  keep  warm; 
take  cold  corn  meal  mush  that  has  been  left  over  from  day  be- 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.       67 

fore,  slice,  dip  in  grated  bread  crumbs  or  sifted  corn  meal,  fry 
brown  in  bacon  gravy;  serve  with  slice  of  bacon  laid  on  top 
each  piece. 

Graham  Muffins — Take  one  quart  of  graham  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  egg,  one  pint  of  milk;  sift  together 
graham,  sugar,  salt  and  powder;  add  beaten  egg  and  milk;  mix 
into  a  batter  like  pound  cake;  fill  well-greased  muffin  pans  two- 
thirds  full;    bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Oyster  Toast — Boil  one  cup  of  oyster  liquor  with  half  a  cup 
of  milk  or  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  pepper  size  of  a  pea;  pour  over  some  nicely  toasted 
bread  and  set  in  the  oven  five  minutes,  then  lay  broiled  oysters 
on  the  slices  of  toast  and  serve  hot. 

Potato  Salad — Take  any  cold  potatoes  that  may  be  left  over, 
either  boiled  or  mashed;  to  one-half  dozen  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
add  one  raw  onion,  chop  fine,  add  one  teaspoonful  mustard,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  salt.  Add  enough  olive  oil  or  melted  butter 
sufficient  to  make  into  a  paste  by  mixing  thoroughly;  to  this 
add  a  cup  of  vinegar  so  as  to  dilute.  The  vinegar  must  be  added 
very  gradually  and  be  well  beaten  with  the  paste. 

Soft  Gingerbread — Take  one-half  cup  butter,  two  cupfuls  mo- 
lasses, one  cup  of  sugar,  four  cupfuls  flour,  one  cupful  milk, 
four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one  of  ginger,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  cloves.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  as  in  making 
other  cake,  then  stir  in  milk  and  molasses;  then  beat  in  the 
flour  (to  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  added)  a  little  at 
a  time,  lastly  adding  the  eggs  (well  beaten),  ginger  and  cloves. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven;  if  baked  in  one  large  loaf  bake  for 
one  hour;  if  in  two  smaller  ones  bake  one-half  hour.  Serve 
warm.    (This  recipe  will  be  enough  for  two  or  three  luncheons.) 

Apple  Sauce — Pare,  core  and  quarter  one-half  dozen  nice 
juicy  apples.  Stew  in  v/ater  enough  to  cover  until  the  pieces 
break.  Beat  to  a  pulp  vv^ith  a  good  lump  of  butter  and  one  cup 
of  sugar,  or  more  if  the  fruit  is  very  sour.  Serve  cold.  The  juice 
of  a  lemon  impraves  it  greatly. 

Russian  Tea — Pare  and  slice  one  good,  juicy  lemon  and  lay  a 
piece  in  each  cup;  sprinkle  with  white  sugar  and  pour  hot,  strong 
tea  upon  it.    Do  not  use  cream. 

Lemon-Cream  Pie — Take  one  tablespoonful  flour,  two-thirds 
of  a  teacupful  water,  one  teacupful  of  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs 
and  one  lemon.  Grate  the  rind  of  the  lemon  and  squeeze  out 
the  juice;  mix  flour  and  sugar  and  grated  rind  of  lemon,  then 
add  yolks  of  eggs,  v/ell  beaten,  and  water;  cook  over  a  slow  flre 
until  it  becomes  thick;  make  pie  crust  and  line  pie  plate,  and 
bake  the  crust  for  ten  minutes;  take  out  and  put  lemon  filling 
in;  return  to  oven  for  five  minutes;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  with  one-half  teacup  sugar.  Spread  over  the  pie  and  brown 
nicely.  Mrs.  E.  H.  Guise. 

No.  1515  Wrightwood  Avenue,  Chicago, 


68  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

TUESDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  bananas. 

Friends'  oats  with  cream. 

Graham   biscuits. 

Creamed  chip  beef.  Cold  sliced  bread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON 

Baked  hash.  Cold  rolls. 

Date  gems.  Sweet  potato  chips. 

Strawberry  float.  Sugar  cakes. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Potato  soup. 

Mock  duck.  Potatoes  a  la  Maryland. 

Fried  salsify. 

Baltimore  pudding. 

Fruit. 


Graham  Biscuits — One  pint  of  graham  flour  and  one-half  pint 
of  wheat  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  lard  or  butter,  one  teaspoon  of 
sugar,  one  saltspoon  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder, 
sifted  in  with  the  wheat  flour  (do  not  sift  brown  flour);  mix 
with  enough  very  cold  water  to  make  a  smooth  paste  to  roll  on 
the  board;  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  and  bake  in  very  hot 
oven. 

Creamed  Chip  Beef — Take  one-half  pound  of  chip  beef,  cut 
very  thin,  pull  apart  and  put  in  chopping  bowl  and  chop  flne; 
have  your  skillet  hot,  put  in  a  dessertspoon  of  butter;  let  melt, 
then  dredge  in  flour,  stirring  until  brown;  then  add  one  pint  of 
milk  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  meat  and  let  it  cook  in 
it;  the  milk  around  it  should  be  like  a  rich  cream  when  done; 
add  parsley  chopped  fine  when  it  is  taken  off  flre. 

Date  Gems — Take  one  cup  of  dates,  seed  and  chop  fine;  two 
cups  of  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  a  spoon- 
ful of  yeast  powder,  three  cups  of  flour  and  one  egg  well  beaten. 
Add  the  melted  butter;  then  stir  in  the  milk;  then  slowly  add 
the  flour,  beating  hard  to  prevent  lumps;  then  the  dates.  Bake 
in  hot,  buttered  gem  pans  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  and 
serve  at  once. 

Baked  Hash — Two  cups  of  any  cold  meat  (or  several  kinds, 
if  on  hand),  a  small  quantity  of  each,  leaving  out  the  fat;  chop 
very  fine,  season  with  a  tablespoonful  of  parsley,  three  celery 
tops,  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  add 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  69 

two  cups  of  creamed,  white  potato,  form  into  a  nice  shape,  put  in 
hot  greased  skillet  and  brown  on  both  sides. 

Sweet  Potato  Chips — Pare  and  cut  potatoes  very  thin;  soak  in 
ice  water,  dry,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  same  as  Saratoga  chips. 

Strawberry  Float — Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff;  then 
whip  in  gradually  two  tablespoonfuls  of  strawberry  jam. 

Sugar  Cakes — Yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  light  (left  from 
float),  coffee  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  a  full  tablespoonful  of  lard 
or  butter,  a  gill  of  milk  and  flour  enough  to  roll  on  the  board; 
flavor  with  nutmeg  and  bake. 

Potato  Soup — One  quart  of  milk,  six  large  potatoes,  one  stalk 
of  celery,  an  onion,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Milk,  onion  and 
celery  boil  together.  Pare  potatoes  and  boil  thirty  minutes;  turn 
off  the  water  and  mash  fine  and  light;  add  the  boiling  milk,  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Rub  through  a  strainer  and  serve 
at  once. 

Potatoes  a  la  Maryland — Six  potatoes  pared  and  cut  into  thin 
slices;  lay  in  cold  salted  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain  and  put 
in  a  stew-pan  with  milk  enough  to  cover,  put  on  the  lid,  let  sim- 
mer slowly  until  perfectly  tender;  then  add  butter,  salt  and  pars- 
ley minced  very  fine.  Serve  in  hot  dish.  Thicken  the  milk  a  lit- 
tle if  necessary. 

Fried  Salsify — Scrape  the  salsify,  cut  in  pieces  and  boil  until 
tender;  mash,  adding  milk  (one  cup),  one  egg  well  beaten,  a 
small  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  a  little  sifted  flour  (this  is  for  one 
bunch  of  salsify) ;    bake  like  griddle  cakes  on  hot  greased  griddle. 

Baltimore  Pudding — Ten  cents'  worth  of  stale  sponge  cake, 
cut  in  slices  and  laid  in  bottom  of  baking  dish;  then  fill  to  the 
top  of  dish  with  either  stewed  peaches  or  cherries;  then  put 
cake  on  top  in  slices  and  make  a  meringue  of  two  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  light,  and  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar;  spread 
over  top  and  put  into  oven  to  harden  for  a  few  moments;  serve 
with  cream  and  eat  cold.  Hilda  Lewis. 

No.  2815  Q  Street,  Washington  City,  D.  C. 


WEDNESDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE   TENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Samp,  with  milk. 

Graham  puffs.  Fried  apple  sauce. 

Somatose  biscuits. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON 

Finnan  baddies. 

Bread  sticks.  Olives. 

Chocolate    pie. 

Cider. 


70  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Oatmeal  soup. 

Fillet  of  beef  a  la  Hollandaise. 

Macaroni,  v/ith  tomato  sauce. 

Apple  John.  Cheese. 

Coffee. 


Graham  Puffs— Two  cups  graham  flour,  one  tablespoonful 
melted  butter,  two  eggs,  one  quart  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful 
salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Sift  together  the  flour 
and'  baking  powder;  add  butter  and  salt  to  the  milk  and  drop 
in  the  eggs,  without  beating.  Beat  into  this  the  prepared  flour, 
making  a  smooth  paste  as  stiff  as  for  griddle  cakes.  Drop  into 
hot  and  well-greased  gem  pans  and  bake  at  once  in  a  hot  oven. 
Fried  Apple  Sauce— Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  into  a  frying- 
pan  and  let  it  brown  without  burning.  Wash  a  half-dozen  apples 
and  slice  them  without  pariilg.  Put  them  into  the  heated  butter 
and  sprinkle  on  them  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar.  Add  a  half-cupful  of  water  and  cover  closely.  When  the 
apples  are  tender  stir  them  gently  about  until  they  are  well 
mixed  and  serve  hot.  A  delicious  and  easily  prepared  dish  for 
either  luncheon  or  breakfast. 

Finnan  Haddies— Brush  the  fish  over  with  butter  and  pepper 
it  well;  then  broil  or  toast  until  it  is  cooked  through.  Another 
way,  equally  good,  is  to  pour  boiling  water  over  the  fish  from 
the  teakettle;  take  it  out  of  the  water,  lay  it  on  a  baking-pan, 
brush  over  with  butter  and  pepper  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about 
eight  or  ten  minutes. 

Bread  Sticks— One  quart  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der, one-quarter  cupful  melted  butter,  one  heaping  tablespoonful 
sugar,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  scalded  milk,  three  whites  of 
eggs,  a  little  salt.  Sift  together  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder. 
Beat  butter,  sugar  and  milk  together  and  add  it  to  the  flour. 
Beat  up  the  eggs  and  work  them  into  the  dough;  turn  out  on  a 
floured  board;  divide  into  pieces  as  large  as  an  egg  and  with 
the  hands  slightly  buttered  roll  them  into  long,  thin  sticks. 
Bake  them  hard  and  crisp  in  a  very  hot  oven. 

Chocolate  Pie — Three  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate,  one 
cup  milk,  one  teaspoonful  cornstarch,  three  eggs,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls sugar,  a  saltspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Rub  the 
chocolate  smooth  in  the  milk  and  heat  to  boiling;  then  stir  in 
the  cornstarch.  Stir  until  well  thickened;  take  from  the  fire 
and  let  cool.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well  with  the  sugar, 
and  when  the  chocolate  mixture  is  cool  add  salt  and  vanilla;  put 
all  together  and  whip  up  light.  Bake  with  one  crust.  When  done 
cover  with  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.    Return  to  the  oven  and  brown. 

Oatmeal  Soup — Two  quarts  of  any  meat  broth,  one-half  can 
tomatoes,  one  medium-sized  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a 
stalk  or  two  of  celery  (if  at  hand),  one  and  one-half  teacupfuls 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  71 

of  oatmeal.  Put  broth,  vegetables  and  seasoning  over  the  fire 
together  and  let  come  to  a  boil;  then  throw  in  the  oatmeal  and 
stir  smooth.  Boil  until  as  thick  as  cream,  then  strain  through 
a  colander  and  serve. 

Fillet  of  Beef  a  la  Hollandaise — Trim  and  cut  the  short  fillet 
into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Season  them  well  with  salt 
and  lay  them  in  a  pan  with  six  tablespoonfuls  butter,  just  warm 
enough  to  be  oily.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  over 
them.  Let  them  stand  one  hour,  then  dip  them  lightly  in  flour, 
place  in  a  double  broiler  and  cook  for  six  minutes  over  a  bright 
fire.  Have  a  mound  of  mashed  potato  in  the  center  of  a  hot  dish 
and  rest  the  slices  against  it.  Pour  a  Hollandaise  sauce  around 
and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Macaroni,  with  Tomato — Two  quarts  boiling  water,  one  table- 
spoonful  salt  and  twelve  sticks  of  macaroni.  Break  and  wash 
the  macaroni  and  boil  it  rapidly  in  the  salted  water  for  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Drain  dry.  Have  ready,  heated,  the  half-can  of 
tomatoes  left  from  the  soup,  and,  having  seasoned  this  with  salt/ 
pepper  and  butter,  pour  it  over  the  macaroni  and  serve. 

Apple  John — One  pint  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  cup  milk,  one  quart  apples  cut  in 
eighths.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together.  Rub  in  the  but- 
ter and  mix  to  the  consistency  of  biscuit  dough  with  the  milk. 
Roll  out  to  fit  the  plate  upon  which  it  is  to  be  baked.  Have  the 
apples  ready,  peeled  and  cut;  put  them  in  a  deep  pie-plate  and 
put  the  crust  on  top  and  bake.  When  done,  reverse  it  and  cover 
with  sugar,  spice  and  butter.    Serve  with  cream. 

Harriet  Mann. 

No.  1421  Central  Street,  Evanston,  111. 


THURSDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  ELEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges.  Wheatena  with  cream. 

Tripe  with  mushrooms. 

Perfection  cornbread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  roast  meat.  Apple  salad. 

Small  biscuits. 

Warm   gingerbread  with  cheese  and  chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Codfish  chowder. 

Broiled  venison  steaks. 

Quirled  potatoes.  Stuffed  onions. 

Celery. 

Prune  shortcake.  Whipped  cream  sauce,. 


72  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Tripe — Cut  one  pound  of  boiled  tripe  into  pieces  about  one 
inch  square;  fry  out  the  fat  from  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon, 
and  set  the  bacon  away.  Season  the  tripe  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  cover  it  with  flour,  and  brown  in  the  hot  fat;  take  it  care- 
fully out  of  the  fat  and  place  on  a  hot  dish;  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour  to  the  fat,  and  a  quarter  pint  of  stock  or  water,  and  half 
a  dozen  mushrooms  chopped  fine;  stir  until  it  boils,  then  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  vinegar;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  pour  over  the 
tripe  and  serve  very  hot. 

Apple  Salad — Peel,  core  and  slice  four  or  five  tart  apples; 
mix  with  them  half  a  thinly  sliced  lemon;  place  in  salad  dish 
and  serve  very  cold,  covered  with  a  French  dressing  made  as 
follows: 

French  Dressing — One  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  saltspoon- 
ful  pepper,  three  tablespoonfuls  oil,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  onion 
juice,  one  tablespoonful  vinegar,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Add 
the  oil  slowly. 

Gingerbread — Warm  one-half  scant  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
of  molasses,  one-half  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful 
mixed  cinnamon  and  mace,  one  tablespoonful  ground  ginger, 
slightly  together,  and  stir  to  a  yellow  brown  cream;  add  half 
a  cup  of  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  and  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  the  milk,  and  two  and  a  half  cups  of  fiour;  beat  well 
and  bake  in  a  large  shallow  pan. 

Chowder — Pick  up  one-half  pint  of  codfish,  soak  over  night, 
change  the  water  several  times  in  the  morning.  Set  the  fish 
aside,  and  when  ready  to  use,  pare  and  thinly  slice  one  pint  of 
raw  potatoes,  one  large  onion,  put  in  hot  buttered  dish,  alternate 
layers  of  fish,  potatoes,  onions  and  one  cracker  pressed  to  crumbs. 
Cover  all  with  hot  water  and  boil  twenty  minutes;  then  add 
salt  to  taste,  a  pint  of  milk,  a  little  cream,  if  possible.  Serve  in 
soup  plates  with  hot  toasted  cracker.  Any  cold  fish  left  from 
yesterday's  dinner  may  be  used. 

Broiled  Venison — Steaks  cut  from  the  saddle  or  loin  are  the 
choicest,  but  those  cut  from  the  leg  are  very  nice  if  properly 
cooked.  Venison  should  be  wiped  carefully  before  cooking,  as 
hairs  are  often  found  clinging  to  the  meat;  broil  same  as  beef- 
steak, and  serve  very  hot  with — 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce — Make  one  teacupful  of  drawn  butter 
sauce.  Add  to  this  half  a  glass  of  currant  jelly;  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  minced  onion,  and  thyme,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt;  beat 
while  simmering. 

Shortcake — Stew  slowly  one  pound  of  prunes  until  soft; 
strain,  and  return  the  liquid  to  the  dish,  adding  half  a  cup  of 
sugar.  While  this  is  simmering  remove  the  stones  from  prunes, 
then  return  to  the  liquid  and  simmer  altogether  about  ten  min- 
utes. Make  a  crust  with  one-half  more  shortening  than  for  bis- 
cuit; bake  in  one  piece;  split  and  butter,  after  baking;  spread 
with  the  prunes  and  serve  with  or  without — 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.       73 

Whipped  Cream  Sauce — Whip  one  pint  of  sweet  cream;    add 
two  egg  whites  well  beaten;    sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Marion  Wilson. 
No.  6407  Lexington  Avenue,  Chicago. 


FRIDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  TWELFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Calves'  liver  en  civet. 

Cream  potatoes.  Corn  muflins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON 

Deviled  oysters. 

Hot  rolls. 

Sliced  oranges.  Walnut  wafers. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Bouillon. 

Baked  red  snapper  a  la  Creole. 

Baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Succotash.  Celery. 

Plum  roll. 

Coffee. 


Calves'  Liver  en  Civet — One-half  pound  of  liver  sliced  one- 
half  inch  thick,  and  four  very  thin  slices  of  bacon.  One  Spanish 
onion,  and  a  pinch  of  dried  herbs  will  be  required.  Flour  the 
slices  of  liver  and  fry  lightly  on  both  sides;  transfer  to  a  stew- 
pan  (with  the  bacon  previously  fried  on  top),  slice  the  onion  and 
fry  in  the  bacon  fat.  Sprinkle  these  over  the  liver  and  bacon, 
add  the  seasoning  and  herbs.  Pour  the  fat  from  the  frying-pan, 
rinse  it  out  with  a  half-pint  of  stock,  pour  this  over  all,  cover 
with  a  close  lid,  and  simmer  slowly  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Delicious  Corn  Muffins — Sift  together  one  and  two-thirds  cup- 
fuls  of  flour,  one  cup  of  cornmeal,  two  scant  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder;  beat  to  a  cream  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  with 
three  of  sugar,  and  add  to  them  three  well-beaten  eggs;  dilute 
this  with  one  pint  of  milk,  beat  hard  and  put  in  buttered  tins. 

Deviled  Oysters — Chop  twenty-five  oysters  fine;  add  one-half 
cup  cracker  crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of 
cream,  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  oyster  shells  or  fancy  baking 
dishes,  fill  with  the  mixture;    bake  twenty  minutes. 

Walnut  Wafers — One-half  pint  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  pint 
of  walnut  meats,  three  even  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  saltspoon 
of  salt,  two  eggs.    Beat  the  eggs,  then  add  sugar,  salt,  flour  and 


74       THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

walnuts.     Drop  from  spoon  on   buttered  paper   and  bake  until 
brown. 

Baked  Red  Snapper  a  la  Creole — For  a  fish  of  three  or  four 
pounds  prepare  this  stuffing:  One  can  of  tomatoes,  six  onions 
chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  dry  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  red  and  black  pepper  and  salt,  plenty  of 
butter.  Stuff  your  fish  with  this  dressing  and  sew  up.  Lay  it 
fiat  in  the  pan  and  cover  top  with  the  remaining  stuffing.  Spread 
butter  on  this  to  make  it  brown  nicely.    Bake  one  hour. 

Plum  Roll — Add  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  one 
teaspoon  of  salt  to  one  quart  of  sifted  fiour.  Sift  again.  Rub  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Roll  out,  sprinkle  with  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins  and 
one-half  cup  of  chopped  citron;  dust  with  cinnamon.  Roll  up 
and  steam  thirty  minutes.     Serve  warm  with  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  M.  M.  Sawyer. 

No.  30  Court  Street,  Exeter,  N.  H. 


SATURDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  THIRTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Orange  marmal-ade. 

Deviled  turkey.  Corn  pudding. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Tartare  sandwiches. 

Sweet  crumpets.  Damson  jam. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Bisque  of  clams. 

Rabbit  smothered  in  onions. 

Mashed  potato.  Sweet-potato  points. 

Hot  slaw. 

Royal  George.  Black  coffee. 


Deviled  Turkey— Reserve  from  a  turkey  of  a  previous  day  the 
drumsticks  and  second  joints;  score  these  in  criss-cross  fashion 
and  rub  over  with  a  large  tablespoonful  of  mustard  mixed  with 
vinegar;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper;  broil  over  hot  coals 
and  serve  on  hot  dish  with  a  tiny  lump  of  butter  on  each  piece. 

Corn  Pudding— Scald  a  cupful  of  corn  meal  with  boiling 
water.  Beat  well-  two  eggs,  a  third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and  add  (with  sufficient  sour 
milk  to  make  a  thin  batter)  to  the  scalded  meal.     Put  soda  in 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  75 

the  soiir  milk  in  proportion  of  a  very  scant  level  teaspoonful  to 
a  pint.  Bake  in  a  pudding-dish  for-  twenty-five  minutes.  This 
dish  is  equally  good  for  luncheon  with  cold  meats  or  as  a  vege- 
table for  dinner. 

Tartare  Sandwiches — Chop  three  sardines,  a  cupful  of  boiled 
ham  and  three  small  cucumber  pickles  very  fine  and  mix  them 
together  with  teaspoonful  each  of  mustard,  catchup  and  vinegar 
and  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  cayenne.  Spread  upon  slices  of 
evenly  cut  bread,  cover  with  equal  number  of  other  buttered 
slices,  cut  diagonally  across. 

Sweet  Crumpets — When  your  bread  has  passed  its  second 
rising  take  out  one  pint  of  the  dough  and  work  into  it  three 
eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar. 
Let  rise  until  light.     Bake  twenty  minutes  in  muffin-rings. 

Bisque  of  Clams — Chop  fine  fifteen  clams,  half  an.  onion;  boil 
thirty  minutes  in  a  quart  of  water,  then  pour  in  one  scant  pint 
of  milk,  and  when  it  boils  stir  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  rubbed  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  a  very  little  soda, 
size  of  a  pea;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  very 
light  two  eggs  and  put  in  tureen.  Pour  hot  mixture  over,  care- 
fully stirring.    Serve. 

Rabbit  Smothered  in  Onions — Lay  a  large  rabbit,  nicely 
cleaned,  in  cold  water  for  twenty  minutes.  Sew  it  up  in  a  piece 
of  cheesecloth  and  put  over  fire  in  sufficient  tepid  water  to  cover. 
Season  with  salt  and-boil  gently  an  hour  and  a  half.  Remove 
cloth,  place  on  platter  and  cover  with  onion  sauce. 

Onion  Sauce — Put  in  saucepan  butter  size  of  an  egg.  While 
melting  stir  smoothly  in  one  tablespoonful  of  fiour;  add  a  cupful 
and  a  half  of  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Have  ready  two  large 
boiled  onions,  chopped,  and  put  in  sauce  just  before  taking  from 
fire.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Sweet-Potato  Points — Boil  four  large  sweet  potatoes;  peel, 
mash  fine  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  lump  of  butter 
and  a  spoonful  of  milk.  Grease  a  white  paper  and  put  in  a  drip- 
ping-pan; divide  the  potatoes  into  equal  parts,  say  eight,  form 
into  little  pyramids,  rub  over  with  well-beaten  egg  and  brown 
in  quick  oven. 

Royal  George — One  cupful  of  sour  cream,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Add 
flour  until  it  is  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.  Line  a  deep  pudding  dish 
with  this  paste  rolled  thin,  fill  with  greening  apples,  pared  and 
quartered,  with  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon  over 
them.  Cover  with  the  rest  of  the  paste  and  bake  until  apples 
are  done.     Serve  with  butter  and  sugar. 

Bavarian  Sauce — Stir  into  a  boiling  pint  of  milk  one  egg, 
beaten  with  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  corn 
starch.     Let  it  thicken.    Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Elizabeth  S.   Sacksteder. 

Box  109,  Downer's  Grove,  111. 


76       THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

SUNDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  FOURTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  pitted  cherries. 

Potato  mangle  Pain  perdu. 

Rice  waffles  with  sirup.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Salmi  of  beef.  Corn  fritters. 

Rye  muffins.  Bananas. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Wexham  soup. 

Roast  of  venison.  Browned  potatoes. 

Currant  jelly.  Celery  salad. 

Apple  pot-pie.  Maple  sugar  sirup. 

Coffee. 


Stewed  Pitted  Cherries — Wash  thoroughly  a  pint  of  cherries 
and  put  to  stew  in  one  quart  of  warm  water,  add  half  a  teacup 
of  brown  sugar  and  stew  until  very  tender,  then  stir  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  and  cook  until  the  sirup  is  the 
consistency  of  rich  cream.  Set  aside  to  cool.  These  are  suffi- 
cient for  two  meals. 

Potato  Mangle — Pare  and  boil  six  potatoes;  boil  six  eggs 
hard.  Let  cool  and  remove  the  shells.  Chop  eggs  and  potatoes 
together  rather  coarsely.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  put  in 
a  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  one  good  spoon  of  butter  and  two 
large  spoons  of  cream  or  milk.  Shake  well,  and  when  hot 
serve. 

Rice  Waffles — One  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice,  beat  up  light  with 
one  cup  of  milk,  melted  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut;  dissolve  one 
small  half  ter.spoon  of  soda  in  a  bit  of  the  milk,  and  add  two 
well-beaten  eggs;  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter, 
adding  one  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar.  Stir  well  and  bake  in 
hot  well-greased  waffle  irons. 

Salmi  of  Beef — Select  one  pound  and  a  half  of  lean  plate 
beef;  stew  in  water  enough  to  cover  it,  adding  a  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  a  bit  of  pepper;  when  tender  remove  and  set  the  kettle 
and  its  sauce  to  one  side.  Melt  and  brown  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  add  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  stir  until  smooth  and 
brown.     Add  the  pot   liquor  from   kettle  meat  was  stewed  in; 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  77 

stir  until  it  thickens.  Slice  the  beef  in  thin  slices  as  possible, 
place  in  the  saucepan,  and  when  heated  through  well,  add  a 
tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  one  teaspoon  of  lemon 
juice,  and  serve.  This  is  a  nice  way  to  use  cold  roasts,  espe- 
cially mutton,  game,  poultry. 

Rye  Muffins— For  one  dozen  muffins  use  one  cup  of  rye  meal, 
one-half  cup  of  white  flour,  sift  together  with  two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  into  a  mixing  bowl,  stir  into  it  thoroughly  one- 
third  cup  of  minced  beef  suet.  Stir  into  this  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  enough  sweet  milk  or  water  to  moisten  into  a  soft 
dough  that  is  easily  handled  with  a  spoon.  Have  muffin  rings 
well  greased  and  piping  hot,  fill  two-thirds  full  and  run  into 
a  hot  oven  to  bake  quickly.  In  twelve  minutes  they  should  be 
brown  and  crisp.    Try  them. 

Wexham  Soup — One  pound  of  lean  beef  chopped.  Peel  and 
slice  one  large  or  two  small  carrots,  one  large  turnip,  six  small 
onions,  a  pint  of  tomatoes,  a  green  stalk  of  celery,  and  a  small 
bunch  of  parsley.  Tie  the  parsley,  celery,  six  cloves,  six  pepper- 
corns, a  sprig  of  sweet  herb,  up  in  a  muslin  cloth.  Put  in  a  saucer 
a  tablespoon  of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  a  saltspoon  of 
pepper;  mix.  Have  ready  a  jar  with  a  cover,  such  as  is  used 
for  baking  beans.  Put  all  these  ingredients  in  alternate  layers 
in  the  jar  and  add  five  pints  of  cold  water.  Paste  the  cover  on 
the  jar.  Set  in  oven  to  bake  slowly  five  hours.  This  can  be 
made  in  the  morning.  Set  aside,  and  re-heat  for  dinner.  Excel- 
lent. 

Roast  of  Venison — Procure  a  nice  five-pound  roast;  this  will 
serve  two  dinners  and  one  luncheon.  Wipe  off  with  a  damp 
cloth.  Rub  over  with  butter  or  lard.  Then  cover  the  top  and 
sides  with  a  thick  paste  of  flour  and  water,  an  inch  deep.  Lay 
a  coarse  paper  over  all  and  put  in  a  dripping  pan  or  roasier  with 
one  cup  of  hot  water.  Keep  the  oven  well  heated.  Baste  every 
fifteen  minutes  with  butter  and  water.  Twenty  minutes  before 
serving  remove  the  paste  and  paper,  and  dredge  with  a  spoon 
(tea)  of  salt,  and  some  flour,  and  baste  with  butter  until  brown. 
Pour  in  a  pint  of  water  and  make  a  thickened  gravy  as  for  roast 
beef.  Add  a  pinch  each  of  cloves,  nutmeg,  mace;  stir  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly;  strain;  send  to  table  in  hot 
dishes.    Venison  cools  quickly,  so  be  sure  plates  are  well  heated. 

Apple  Pot  Pie — Pill  a  basin  one-third  full  of  tart  apples, 
pared,  quartered  and  cored.  Pour  boiling  water  over  them  and 
set  on  stove  to  cook.  When  they  begin  to  boil,  put  over  them  a 
crust  made  as  for  biscuit,  cover  closely,  cook  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  hard  sauce,  or — 

Maple  Sugar  Sirup — One-half  cup  of  maple  sirup,  simmer  and 
skim  it.  Cream  together  one  teaspoon  flour,  one-third  cup  of 
butter  and  a  bit  of  grated  nutmeg;  add  to  the  sirup,  boil  up,  and 
serve.  Mrs.  Max  Uhlig. 

Holdrege,  Neb. 


78  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

MONDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  FIFTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Hominy  porridge. 

Fish  cutlets.  Creamed  potatoes. 

Apple  toast.  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Scrambled  eggs  with  tomatoes. 

Bread  and  butter.  Raisin  jam. 

White  cake.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Curry  soup. 

Veal  cutlets  with  herbs. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Creamed  onions. 

Jam  pudding.  Foam  sauce. 

Coffee. 


.  Hominy  Porridge — Soak  one  small  cup  of  granulated  hominy 
in  one  quart  of  water  over  night.  Next  morning  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  boil  an  hour  in  same  water  over  a  good  fire.  Half 
a  cup  of  milk  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Fish  Cutlets — Boil  one-half  pint  of  milk.  Rub  together  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  butter  and  three  even  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Stir 
into  the  boiling  milk.  Stir  and  cook  until  a  thick  paste.  Add 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  one  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley,  ten  drops 
onion  juice,  one-quarter  grated  nutmeg,  two  cups  of  cold  boiled 
fish  and  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  cayenne.  Turn  out  to 
cool.  When  cold  form  into  cutlets;  dip  first  in  beaten  egg,  then 
in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  very  hot  fat;  drain  and  serve  hot- 
Apple  Toast — Peel,  core  and  quarter  six  apples,  and  cut  them 
in  slices;  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  a  saucepan, 
add  the  apples  and  throw  over  them  four  tablespoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  two  of  water.  Stew  quickly.  Fry  slices  of  bread 
a  nice  yellow  color  in  a  little  butter,  place  on  a  dish,  cover  with 
a  little  sugar  and  the  apples  one  inch  thick.    Serve  hot. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Tomatoes — Take  one  cup  of  canned 
tomatoes,  add  a  pinch  of  soda  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
small  piece  of  butter.  When  hot,  taking  care  not  to  burn,  add 
three  whole  eggs  and  stir  gently.  Add  a  scant  teaspoonful  pf 
salt,  quarter-teaspoonful  pepper  and  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

Raisin  Jam — Wash  and  seed  one  pound  of  large  sweet  rai- 
sins; put  them  on  to  cook  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  water  and  half  a  grated  nutmeg.  Cook  until  thick;  when 
cold  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Curry  Soup — Season  two  quarts  of  veal  broth  with  two 
onions,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  salt  and  pepper;    strain  it  and  have 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD-  COOK   BOOK.  79 

ready  two  cupfuls  of  uncooked  chicken  cut  in  cubes  and  skinned; 
put  it  in  the  broth  with  a  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder;  boil 
the  chicken  till  tender.  A  little  before  serving  add  the  juice  of 
a  lemon  and  a  teacupful  of  boiling  milk.    Serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Jam  Pudding — Chop  three  tablespoonfuls  of  beef  suet  fine, 
add  half  a  pound  of  sifted  flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  mix  with 
cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Cut  it  in  with  a  knife;  do  not 
touch  with  the  hands.  Roll  out  an  inch  thick  on  a  well-floured 
breadboard;  spread  thickly  with  blackberry  or  currant  jam;  roll 
up  in  a  well-floured  cloth  and  steam  for  two  hours  and  a  half. 
Serve  with  foam  sauce.  Mrs.  Charles  Adams. 

No.  2829  Calumet  Avenue,  Chicago. 


TUESDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  SIXTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  apples.       Cream. 

Kidney  and  bacon. 

Dry  toast.  Cerealine  mufiins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Pickled  salmon  trout 

Brown  bread  and  butter.  Apple  johnnycake. 

Celery.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Scotch  broth. 

Beefsteak  pie. 

Mashed  rutabagas. 

Golden  pudding.  Custard  sauce. 

Tea. 


Kidney  and  Bacon — Fry  thin  slices  breakfast  bacon,  set  aside 
to  keep  warm.  Split  one-half  dozen  mutton  kidneys  (or  cut  in 
slices  one  beef  kidney),  fry  in  bacon  fat  till  brown,  add  one  cup 
of  water,  pinch  of  salt,  cover  and  stew  slowly  ten  minutes,  pour 
over  bacon;    serve  with  dry  toast. 

Cerealine  Mufiins — One  cup  eaxh  of  milk,  flour  and  cerealine, 
one  egg,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  good  pinch 
of  salt;    bake  in  gem  pans  one-half  full  about  twenty  minutes. 

Pickled  Salmon  Trout — Clean  thoroughly;  cut  about  two  and 
one-half  inches  long,  peel  and  slice  two  medium-sized  onions, 
put  a  layer  of  the  onions  in  bottom  of  deep  pudding  dish,  sprinkle 
on  salt  and  pepper;  lay  on  this  the  pieces  of  fish  and  remaining 
slices  of  onions,  cover  with  vinegar  and  water,  taking  into  con- 
sideration the  strength  of  vinegar,  sprinkle  with  salt,  cover  and 


80  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

bake  slowly  till  fish  is  quite  tender;  whole  ginger,  allspice  and 
cloves  may  be  added  for  those  who  like  spices.    Serve  cold. 

Scotch  Broth— Soak  three  pounds  neck  mutton  in  water  for 
one  hour,  cut  in  small  pieces,  removing  as  much  fat  as  possible, 
put  in  stewpan  with  two  quarts  cold  water;  when  it  comes  to 
a  boil  skim  thoroughly,  then  simmer  one  and  one-half  hours. 
Cut  up  two  carrots,  two  turnips,  one  onion,  and  add  to  soup 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  Scotch  barley;  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste;  cook  three  and  one-half  hours,  adding  a  little  chopped 
parsley  when  you  serve. 

Golden  Pudding — One-quarter  pound  bread  crumbs,  one-quar- 
ter pound  finely  chopped  beef  suet,  one-quarter  pound  orange 
marmalade,  one-quarter  pound  sugar,  four  well-beaten  eggs;  mix 
all  together,  press  into  buttered  mold  or  basin,  tie  down  with 
floured  cloth;  boil  two  hours  or  steam  three;  be  sure  not  to 
allow  the  water  to  cease  boiling,  or  it  will  not  be  so  light.  Of 
course  the  pudding  is  plunged  into  boiling  water  sufficient  to 
cover  it;  as  it  boils  away  add  boiling  water  from  the  kettle. 
These  boiled  puddings  are  very  wholesome  and  nice,  though  a 
little  troublesome  to  make. 

Custard  Sauce — Pint  of  milk  brought  to  a  boil  and  add  to  it 
one  well-beaten  egg  and  level  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch  moist- 
ened with  a  little  cold  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  sugar;  boil  up  once 
and  serve.  Mrs.  H.  Richards. 

No.  7700  Wallace  Street,  Chicago. 


WEDNESDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  SEVENTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Scotch  marmalade. 

Friends'  oats  with  cream.  Broiled  salt  mackerel. 

Muffins.  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Minced  veal  on  toast.  Potato  salad. 

English  currant  loaf.       Apple  sauce. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Gumbo  soup. 

Roast  spareribs.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Heidelberg  cabbage.  Corn  fritters. 

Frosted  lemon  pudding.  Coffee. 


Potato  Salad— Cut  evenly  one  quart  of  cold  potatoes;  chop 
fine  half  an  onion;  pour  over  French  salad  dressing  and  lightly 
mix.    Serve  very  cold.    The  dressing  is  made  of  three  tablespoons 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  81 

of  oil,  one  of  vinegar,  one  saltspoon  of  salt,  one-half  a  saltspoon 
of  pepper.    The  potatoes  themselves  should  also  be  slightly  salted. 

English  Currant  Loaf — When  your  bread  has  become  ready 
for  molding  into  loaves,  take  sufficient  dough  for  one  loaf  and 
knead  into  it  a  large  iron  spoonful  of  butter  or  sweet  drippings, 
two  eggs,  a  small  teacup  of  light  brown  sugar,  same  of  currants, 
cleaned  and  floured,  a  large  pinch  each  of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 
Knead  well  and  if  too  stiff  add  a  few  drops  of  milk,  form  into 
shapely  loaf,  let  rise  until  light  and  bake  as  though  bread.  A 
toothsome,  healthful  cake. 

Roast  Spareribs — Trim  off  the  rough  ends,  crack  the  ribs 
through  the  middle,  rub  with  salt  and  pepper,  fold  over  where 
cracked,  stuff,  sew  or  wrap  with  twine,  put  in  dripping  pan  with 
a  pint  of  water,  baste  frequently  and  turn  once..  Should  be  a 
rich,  even  brown.  Dressing:  Three  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs, 
a  finely  chopped  onion,  same  of  apple,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pow- 
dered sage,  same  of  salt,  same  of  pepper,  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  chopped  beef  suet. 

Heidelberg  Cabbage — Shred  a  solid  head  of  red  cabbage;  put 
into  a  saucepan  a  large  tablespoonful  of  clean  drippings;  when 
hot  put  in  the  cabbage,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  onion,  in  which  three  cloves  have 
been  thrust.  Simmer  slowly  for  over  two  hours;  if  it  becomes 
so  dry  that  there  is  danger  of  burning  add  a  very  little  water. 

Edith  M.  Ryther. 

No.  6641  Wright  Street,  Chicago. 


THURSDAY.  FEBRUARY  THE  EIGHTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Rolled  white  oats  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Savory  stewed  kidney. 

Soda  and  cream  of  tartar  biscuit,  with  butter. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON 

Sardine  salad.  Welsh  rarebit. 

Crackers.  Black  tea. 


DINNER. 

Turtle  bean  soup. 

A  curry  of  veal.  Buttered  parsnips. 

Vienna  rolls.  Pickles. 

Orange  pudding.  French  coffee. 


Biscuits — One  teaspoon  soda,  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  of 
salt,  one  of  sugar  sifted  with  one  quart  of  flour;  rub  in  one  table- 
spoon of  lard  until  there  are  no  large  lumps,  mix  with  two-thirds 


82  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

of  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  or  water,  toss  out  on  a  floured  board  and 
pat  with  rolling-pin  until  half  an  inch  thick;  take  a  sharp-point- 
ed knife  and  prick  the  dough  all  over,  cut  into  small  rounds  with 
the  lid  to  a  half-pound  baking  powder  can  and  bake  quickly  in 
a  very  hot  oven. 

Sardine  Salad — Drain  the  oil  from  one  box  of  sardines  by 
laying  them  on  tissue  paper  and  turning  them  over  until  the 
grease  is  absorbed  by  the  paper.  Cut  up  a  large  bunch  of  celery 
into  inch  pieces,  season  with  a  little  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar. 
Pile  these  pieces  into  a  small  pyramid  upon  a  glass  platter  and 
lay  the  sardines  about  the  base  of  the  mound.  Gently  pour  over 
a  cream  dressing  made  of  one  pint  of  milk,  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Bring  the 
milk  to  a  boil.  Add  the  flour  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  boil  three  minutes.  Let  cool  before  pouring  over 
salad. 

A  Curry  of  Veal — One  onion  sliced  and  browned  in  one  table- 
spoon of  butter;  add  to  this  one-half  can  tomatoes,  one  teaspoon 
of  curry  powder,  two  pounds  of  stewing  veal  cut  up,  two  tea- 
spoons of  salt  and  one  teaspoon  of  pepper;  pour  over  this  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water;  let  it  simmer  two  hours;  put  one  cup 
of  rice  in  a  baking-dish  with  one  pint  of  water  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt;  set  in  a  steamer,  above  the  stev/;  thicken  the  stew 
before  taking  up  with  a  large  spoon  of  flour  wet  v^^ith  two  of  cold 
water.  Serve  on  a  large  platter  with  a  border  of  rice  around  the 
edge.    This  is  one  of  the  cheapest  and  most  satisfying  dishes. 

Buttered  Parsnips — Boil  four  parsnips  tender;  scrape  off  the 
skins;  slice  length Avise  quite  thin;  melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
in  a  saucepan;  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-quarter  tea- 
spoon pepper;  put  in  the  parsnips  and  let  them  get  thoroughly 
heated  in  the  butter;  remove  the  parsnips  to  a  hot  platter,  pour 
the  butter  over  them  and  garnish  with  chopped  parsley. 

Vienna  Roils — One  quart  of  flour,  three  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  sifted  together;  rub  in  one  table- 
spoon of  lard  and  mix  with  one  pint  of  milk  or  water;  roll  half 
an  inch  thick  and  cut  out  with  large  round  cutter;  fold  one-half 
over  on  the  other  by  doubling  it;  lay  on  greased  baking-pan  and 
wash  over  with  a  little  milk.    Bake  twenty  minutes  in  brisk  oven. 

Mrs.  Hay  L.  Stinespring. 

No.  505  State  -Street,  Lafayette,  Ind. 


FRIDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  NINETEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  apples  and  cream. 

Liver  and  bacon. 
Soft  toast.  CofTee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  83 


LUNCHEON 


Veal  loaf.  Egg  salad. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Bisque  of  oyster. 

Baked  trout  with  sauce. 

Stewed  tomatoes.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Whipped  cream  and  cake. 

Coffee. 


Liver  and  Bacon — Cut  fine  thin  slices  of  bacon,  fry  until  all 
the  fat  is  out,  put  in  the  oven  to  keep  warm.  One  pound  of  calves' 
liver;  scald  in  boiling  water;  cut  in  slices,  dust  each  slice  light- 
ly with  hour,  put  them  into  the  fat  fried  from  bacon,  fry  until 
brown;    put  on  a  platter  with  the  bacon  laid  over  the  liver. 

Soft  Toast — Six  or  seven  slices  of  dry  bread;  toast  a  golden 
brown;  have  a  bowl  of  boiling-hot  w^ater  ready;  dip  each  slice 
in  for  a  minute,  butter,  put  on  a  plate,  set  in  the  oven  for  two 
minutes;    serve  hot. 

Veal  Loaf — Two  pounds  of  veal,  same  as  for  stew.  Put  on  to 
boil  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover,  with  one  stalk  of  celery,  one 
slice  of  onion,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cloves  and 
cinnamon;  cook  until  tender;  remove  bone  and  gristle,  chop 
very  fine,  season  with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper;  add  the  water  that  was  left  from  boiling, 
put  in  a  mold  to  press.  Let  stand  over  night;  serve  cut  in  slices 
and  garnish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon. 

Baked  Trout  with  Sauce — One  trout  or  whitefish  weighing 
six  or  seven  pounds.  Wash  carefully,  wipe  dry.  Take  two  cups 
of  bread  crumbs,  moisten  with  cold  water;  chop  one  slice  of 
onion  and  one-half  stalk  of  celery  very  fine  and  add  to  the  bread 
crumbs;  season  with  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt 
and  pepper,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter;  cook  ten  minutes. 
Stuff  the  fish  as  full  as  possible,  tie  it  together  with  white  cord; 
put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  in  a  dripping  pan,  with  hot  water 
enough  to  keep  from  burning;  rub  the  fish  thoroughly  with  salt; 
cut  fine,  thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  lay  on  the  fish  and  bake  one  and 
a  half  hours.  Make  a  sauce  as  follows:  Two  tablespoonfuls  of 
browned  fiour,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of 
cream;  rub  the  flour  and  butter  to  a  cream;  add  cream,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  pepper  and  six  or  seven  ca- 
pers; add  boiling  water  until  it  is  the  right  consistency;  pour 
around  fish;    serve  very  hot.  Mrs.  Gordon  Beall. 

East  Jordan,  Mich. 


84  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

SATURDAY,   FEBRUARY  THE  TWENTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Old-fashioned  apple  sauce. 

Cracked  wheat.  Pickled  pig's  feet,  fried. 

Corn  muffins.  Wheat  bread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  sliced  ham.  Sweet  potatoes  fried. 

Pickles.  Bread  and  butter. 

Grape  jelly.  Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Barley  soup. 

Curry  of  rabbit.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Boiled  rice.  Celery. 

Apple  pie.  Cookies.  Cheese. 

Coffee. 


Old-Fashioned  Apple  Sauce — Pare  and  chop  a  dozen  medium- 
sized  apples,  put  them  in  a  deep  pudding-dish,  sprinkle  over  them 
a  heaping  coffeecupful  of  sugar  and  one  of  water.  Place  them  in 
the  oven  and  bake  slowly  two  hours  or  more,  or  until  they  are  a 
deep  red  brown;    quite  as  nice  as  preserves. 

Curry  of  Rabbit — Three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  two 
large  onions,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder,  one  cup- 
ful of  tomatoes,  enough  cayenne  to  cover  a  silver  three-cent  piece, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  cupful  of  milk.  Put  the  butter  and 
the  onions,  cut  fine,  on  to  cook;  stir  all  the  while  until  brown; 
then  put  in  the  rabbit — which  has  been  cut  in  small  pieces,  the 
curry  tomatoes,  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoon  pepper.  Stir  well. 
Cover  tightly  and  let  simmer  till  done,  stirring  occasionally,  then 
add  the  milk.    Boil  up  once,  and  serve.  Mrs.  John  Bute. 

170  Harding  Avenue,  Chicago. 


SUNDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  TWENTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Boiled  wheat  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Potato  fritters.  Baked  apples. 

Drop  biscuit  and  butter. 

Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  85 

LUNCHEON. 

Salmon  cream  on  toast.  Baked  potatoes. 

Entire-v/heat  bread. 

Pandowdy. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup.  Beef  roast  with  sauce. 

Bean  polenta. 

Scalloped   squash.  White   bread   and   butter. 

Fruit  blanc  mange. 

Tea  or  coffee. 


Boiled  Wheat — Grind  one-half  pint  of  selected  wheat  berries 
in  a  coffee-grinder.  Stir  this  in  one  quart  of  salted  boiling  water. 
Boil  one  hour  or  longer.  Very  good,  and  a  change  from  prepared 
wheats. 

Salmon  Cream  on  Toast — Drain  and  boil  one-half  can  of  sal- 
mon in  one  pint  of  milk.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch 
of  pepper.  Rub  smooth  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  one  of 
butter.  Stir  this  into  boiling  milk  and  salmon.  Pour  over  slices 
of  toasted  bread. 

Drop  Biscuit — One-half  cup  cornmeal,  put  in  bottom  of  quart 
measure.  Fill  measure  up  with  white  flour.  Sift  and  rub  in  thor- 
oughly one  teaspoonful  each  of  butter  and  lard,  salt  and  sugar. 
Dissolve  one  level  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  in  warm  water  and 
stir  it  in  one  pint  of  buttermilk.  Add  this  to  the  flour.  Beat  up 
v/ell  and  drop  from  spoon  into  hot  muflin  tins  or  gem  pans.  Bake 
one-half  hour  in  very  hot  oven.  If  heated  in  the  oven  a  few  mo- 
ments before  eating  these  are  as  delicious  the  second  as  the 
first  day. 

Pandowdy — Put  a  layer  of  peeled  and  sliced  apples  in  bottom 
of  deep  pudding  dish,  sprinkle  over  them  plenty  of  sugar  and  a 
little  cinnamon,  then  another  layer  of  apples,  sugar  and  cinnamon, 
and  so  on  till  t^e  dish  is  full.  Pour  on  one  cup  of  water.  Take 
one-half  cup  of  rye  flour  and  same  quantity  of  corn  meal,  pinch 
of  salt  and  boiling  water  enough  to  make  a  dough.  Cover  the 
top  of  apples  with  this,  bake  slowly  flve  hours,  then  break  the 
crust  down  into  the  apples,  cover  with  a  plate  and  bake  two 
hours  longer.  Then  remove  from  oven  and  let  stand  covered  all 
night.     Eat  with  milk  and  sugar;   delicious. 

Some  people  cook  one-half  cup  of  molasses  with  the  apples 
instead  of  sugar. 

Scalloped  Squash — Use  crookneck  variety.  Cut  in  slices  like 
eggplant,  pare  and  boil  in  salted  water  flfteen  minutes.  Drain  and 
put  layer  of  squash  slices  in  pudding  dish.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg 
over  it  and  put  bits  of  butter  on.  Add  another  layer  of  squash, 
sugar,  butter  and  nutmeg  and  so  on  till  dish  is  filled.  Pour  one- 
half  cup  water  on  it  and  bake  one  hour  in  hot  oven.    Excellent. 


86  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

Bean  Polenta — One  pint  of  white  or  colored  beans  soaked 
over  night.  Put  in  cold,  fresh  water  next  morning  and  boil  till 
soft  and  dry.  Then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  of  vine- 
gar and  three  of  molasses.  One-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one 
teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  dry  mustard.  Stir  in  well  and  boil 
ten  minutes.  After  dinner  take  remaining  portion,  mix  with  a 
beaten  egg  and  flour  enough  to  mold  up  in  cakes  for  breakfast. 
Fry  brown. 

Fruit  Blanc  Mange— Boil  one  pint  of  water  with  one  cup  of 
sugar.  Dissolve  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  in  a  little  water, 
stir  it  into  the  boiling  water  and  sugar.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
grated  rind  of  half  lemon.  Pour  hot  over  sliced  bananas  or  any 
other  ripe  fruit.    Eat  with  cream.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Polhemus. 

Tabor,  Fremont  County,  Iowa. 


MONDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  TWENTY-SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Scrambled  eggs.  Creamed  potatoes. 

Belle  calas.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Escalloped  oysters.  Chile  sauce. 

Bread  and  butter.  Canned  strawberries. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Vegetable  soup. 

Roast  beef  with  gravy. 

Baked  potatoes.  Parsiq^ip  fritters. 

Cucumber  pickles. 
Prune  pudding.  Coffee. 


Scrambled  Eggs — For  five  persons  take  eight  eggs,  beat  them 
well,  then  add  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful of  salt.  Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  frying- 
pan,  and  when  it  is  hot  pour  in  the  eggs,  stir  carefully  from  the 
bottom  until  they  thicken. 

Belle  Calas — Boil  soft  one-half  pound  of  rice  in  salted  water; 
when  cold  add  two  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  one-half 
package  self-rising  flour.  Soak  a  slice  of  bread  in  water,  drain 
and  take  off  the  crust;  mix  well  with  the  rice  snd  cook  by  drop- 
ping a  spoonful  at  a  time  in  boiling  lard.  The  cake  must  not 
touch  the  bottom  of  the  pot.    Serve  with  hot  coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  87 

Chile  Sauce — This  must  be  made  in  September.  Twenty-four 
ripe  tomatoes,  one  large  onion,  three  green  peppers;  chop  fine  and 
add  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon,  mace  and  celery  seed, 
and  one-half  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Stir  frequently  and  simmer 
two  hours. 

Parsnip  Fritters — Boil  five  medium-sized  parsnips  until 
tender;  take  off  the  skins  and  mash  them  fine;  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour  and  a  beaten  egg;  make  into  small  cakes  and  put  into 
boiling  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings  in  a  frying-pan.  When  fried 
a  delicate  brown  put  on  a  dish  and  serve  hot. 

Prune  Pudding— One-half  pound  of  French  prunes  stewed  very 
soft  and  mashed  very  fine;  remove  the  pits.  One-half  cupful  of 
sugar  added  to  the  pulp  and  well  mixed;  then  add  the  v/eli-beaten 
whites  of  four-eggs;  stir  together  until  smooth.  Bake  in  buttered 
pudding  dish  until  it  puffs  up  all  over  the  top.  When  cold  spread 
one  teacupful  of  whipped  cream  over  the  top.  The  oven  should 
be  of  a  moderate  temperature.  Mrs.  C.  L.  Wilbur. 

No.  610  Sycamore  Street,  South,  Lansing,  Mich. 


MENU  FOR  LENT. 
TUESDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  TWENTY-THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grape  fruit. 

Cracked  wheat,  sugar  and  cream. 

Baked  eggs.  Coffee.  Corn  dodgers. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cod  au  fromage. 

Apple  fritters,  maple  sirup. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Whitefish  au  gratin.  Baked  potatoes. 

Dried  turnips.  Chile  sauce. 

Bean  salad.  Toasted  wafers. 

Date  pie.  Cafe  noir. 


Baked  Eggs— Break  eight  eggs  into  a  well-buttered  dish; 
sprinkle  with  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter  broken  into  bits.    Bake  twenty  minutes;    serve  hot. 


88  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Corn  Dodgers — To  one  quart  of  meal  add  one  teaspconful  of 
salt  and  a  small  tablesi3oonful  of  lard;  scald  with  boiling  water 
and  beat  hard  for  three  minutes;  drop  in  large  spoonfuls  in  a 
well-greased  pan  and  bake' in  a  hot  oven.  The  batter  should  be 
thick  enough  to  just  flatten  on  the  bottom,  leaving  them  quite 
high  in  the  center. 

Cod  au  Fromage — Mix  one  cup  of  cold  boiled  macaroni  (broken 
into  short  pieces)  and  one  cup  of  cold  boiled  codfish,  and  put 
in  buttered  baking  dish;  lay  bits  of  butter  (use  half  the  size 
of  an  egg  in  all),  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  also  of  pepper,  over  it; 
use  sufficient  milk  or  cold-drawn  butter  should  you  chance  to 
have  it,  to  moisten— about  half  a  cupful;  cover  with  fine  bread 
crumbs'  and  sprinkle  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese  on 
top.     Bake  until  brown. 

Apple  Fritters,  Maple  Sirup— Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  until  light.  Heat 
one  cupful  of  milk  a  little  more  than  blood  warm,  add  it  slowly 
to  the  yolks  and  sugar.  Sift  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder  v/ith  two  cups  of  flour  and  stir  into  liquid  mixture;  then 
beat  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  stiffly  whipped;  lastly,  stir  in  four 
good  apples,  peeled,  cored  and  thinly  sliced.  Drop  by  large  spoon- 
fuls into  boiling  fat  with  pieces  of  apple  in  each,  fry  a  light  brown 
and  serve  with  maple  sirup. 

Tomato  Soup — Stew  one  quart  of  tomatoes  and  one  pint  of 
water  for  twenty  minutes;  rub  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and 
one  of  butter,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  of  sugar;  stir 
into  the  boiling  tomato  and  cook  flfteen  minutes;  rub  through 
a  colander  and  serve  with  sippets  of  bread.  Cut  stale  bread  thin 
slices,  butter  and  cut  into  small  dice,  place  in  pan  with  buttered 
side  up  and  brown  crisply  in  the  oven. 

Whitefish  au  Gratin — Parboil  a  three-pound  whitefish  and 
pick  apart  in  large  flakes.  Make  a  sauce  of  one  pint  of  milk, 
two  eggs,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  third  of  that 
quantity  of  white  pepper.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of 
fish,  pour  over  some  of  the  sauce,  grate  a  trifle  of  nutmeg  on 
this,  and  so  proceed  until  fish  and  sauce  are  used  up.  Cover 
top  layer  with  fine  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  four  gratings  of 
nutmeg  and  bake  a  golden  brown.    Very  delicious  Lenten  dish. 

Dried  Turnips — Fill  a  quart  measure  with  nice  white  turnips 
pared  and  cut  into  dice,  boil  in  as  little  v^ater  as  possible  until 
nearly  done.  A  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
in  the  water.  When  boiled  as  dry  as  possible  without  scorching 
stir  in  three  spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  beaten  egg  and  serve. 

Bean  Salad — One  can  of  stringless  beans,  over  which  a  French 
dressing  has  been  poured.  Both  should  be  thoroughly  chilled 
before  mixing  and  brought  to  table  very  cold.  Mix  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt  and  half  that  quantity  of  pepper  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
olive  oil,  then  add  slowly  two  more  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  and 
one  of   vinegar.    Toast  Saratoga  flakes  and  serve  hot  with  salad. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  89 

Date  Pie — Soak  one  pound  of  dates  over  night  in  a  little  water 
and  stew  them  in  the  same  the  next  morning  until  soft  enough 
to  strain;  add  one  quart  of  rich  milk,  three  eggs,  a  saltspoon  of 
salt  and  four  or  five  gratings  of  nutmeg.  Bake  without  an  upper 
crust.  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  three  pies,  so  gauge  accord- 
ing to  your  needs.  Mary  M.  Manney. 

Box  96,  Riverside,  111. 


WEDNESDAY,   FEBRUARY   THE  TWENTY-FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Corn  mush  with  cream. 
Fish  scallops.  Hashed  brown  potatoes. 

Short  cake  with  sirup.      Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Hot  Frankfurts,  with  tomato  sauce, 

Graham  bread  and  butter. 

Brown  Betty.      Tea. 


DINNER. 

Puree  of  peas. 

Stuffed  beefsteak  with  brown  dressing. 

Scalloped  potatoes.  Mashed  turnips. 

Indian  pudding.    Coffee. 


Short  Cake — Two  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  one  teaspoonful 
baking  powder  mixed  thoroughly  with  one  quart  of  flour,  enough 
cold  water  to  form  a  soft  dough.  Roll  about  a  half  inch  in  thick- 
ness and  place  on  a  hot  griddle,  well  greased.  When  brown  on 
both  sides,  split  with  a  sharp  knife,  cut  into  squares  and  serve, 
well  buttered,  on  a  warm  plate. 

Tomato  Sauce — Stew  one  pint  of  tomatoes  ten  minutes,  strain, 
return  to  fire  and  stir  in  slowly  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  mixed 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Boil  one  minute,  have  the  Frankfurts  ready  on  a  warmed  platter 
and  pour  sauce  over  them.    Very  nice. 

Stuffed  Beefsteak— Prepare  a  pound  and  a  half  of  rump  steak 
as  for  boiling,  spread  over  it  a  fllling  made  as  follows:  One  quart 
of  stale  bread  crumbs,  one  small  onion  cut  flne,  one  teaspoonful 
sage,  one  teaspoonful  melted  butter  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  half  teaspoonful  pepper.  Roll  steak,  tie  with  cord  and  place 
in  pan,  with  one  pint  of  wafer.  Bake  one-half  hour,  basting  fre- 
quently. Mrs.  G.  Lakeways. 

307  Mecca  Flats,  Chicago. 


90  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

THURSDAY,    FEBRUARY   THE    TWENTY-FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

"Wheat  germ  meal  with  cheese. 

Boiled  eggs.  Graham  bread. 

Baked  apples.      Chocolate. 


LUNCHEON. 
Sardines,  with  slices  of  lemon. 
Potato  fritters.  Bread  and  butter. 

Stewed  apricots.      Tea. 


DINNER. 

Chestnut  soup. 

Boiled  mutton.  Currant  jelly. 

Boiled  Hominy.  Baked  onions. 

Health  plum  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Chestnut  Soup — Boil  one  quart  of  chestnuts  and  rub  the  meat 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Take  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and 
flour,  mix  smooth  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  gradually  a 
quart  of  milk.  When  scalding  hot  season  with  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  nutmeg,  and  add  the 
sifted  chestnuts. 

Health  Plum  Pudding — Two  cupfuls  best  graham  flour,  sifted 
and  then  measured,  mixed  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
one  cupful  of  nuts  (either  almonds,  English  walnuts  or  pecans), 
a  cupful  of  raisins,  a  cup  of  milk,  and  one-half  cupful  of  mo- 
lasses. Wash,  seed,  and  dry  the  raisins,  and  flour  them  lightly. 
Slice  or  chop  the  nuts  fine,  then  add  molasses  and  milk  to  the 
flour,  mix  well  and  quickly;  add  raisins  and  nuts.  Mix  thoroughly 
again.  Butter  pudding  mold,  turn  in  the  batter  and  boil  three 
hours.    Serve  with  lemon  sauce.  Mrs.  Margaret  Myers. 

Augusta  Street,  Austin,  111. 


FRIDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  TWENTY-SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit  salad. 

Rice  and  meat  croquettes.  Eggs  a  la  Suisse. 

Griddle  cakes  with  sirup. 

Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  91 

LUNCHEON. 

Creamed  mushrooms  on  toast.        Potato  salad. 

Lunch  cake.        Stewed  apricots. 

Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  tomato  soup. 

Baked  rock  cod  with  dressing. 

Scalloped  sweet  potatoes.  Cold  slaw. 

Tapioca  pudding.         Coffee. 


Fruit  Salad — Take  three  oranges,  one  grape  fruit  and  half  a 
pound  of  Malaga  grapes.  Remove  the  skins  and  seeds  from  the 
three  fruits  and  tear  the  pulp  into  pieces,  cutting  each  grape  into 
halves.  Add  to  the  mixture  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Serve  in  half 
orange  skins. 

Meat  and  Rice  Crcguettes — One  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice, 
one  cupful  of  finely  chopped  cooked  meat  of  any  kind,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  one  egg.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil 
and  add  the  meat  and  rice  and  seasoning.  When  this  boils  add 
the  egg,  well  beaten,  and  stir  one  minute.  When  cool  form  into 
rolls,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Eggs  a  la  Suisse — Spread  the  bottom  of  a  flat  pudding-dish 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  broken  into  bits,  cover  this  with 
grated  cheese,  break  five  or  six  eggs  upon  the  cheese,  being  careful 
not  to  break  the  yolks.  Season  slightly  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour 
a  little  cream  on  the  surface,  strew  a  thick  layer  of  grated  cheese 
over  the  top  and  set  the  eggs  in  a  moderate  oven  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour. 

Lunch  Cake — Two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  milk,  yolk  of  onfe 
egg,  one  and  two-thirds  cupfuls  of  flour  and  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder.  Lastlj^  the  v/hite  of  the  egg,  well  beaten. 
Bake  in  square  tins,  and  when  done  sprinkle  over  the  top  a 
tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar  mixed  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon. 

Baked  Rock  Cod  with  Dressing — Take  a  rock  cod,  shad  or 
other  flsh  weighing  two  or  three  pounds;  clean,  rinse  and  wipe  dry. 
Rub  the  fish  outside  and  in  with  salt  and  pepper  and  fill  with  the 
following  dressing:  A  large  cupful  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the  same  quantity  of  sage  (if  liked), 
a  pinch  of  pepper  and  one  onion  chopped  fine.  Moisten  with  milk 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  Bind  the  fish  with  a  string 
and  put  into  a  hot  pan  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
Lay  on  the  fish  three  or  four  thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  over  which 
pour  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup  and  two  of  hot  water. 
Bake  one  hour,  basting  frequently. 


92  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Scalloped  Sweet  Potatoes — Slice  the  raw  sweet  potatoes  very 
thin.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  arrange  a  layer  of  sliced  potato  in 
the  bottom;  sprinkle  over"  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  several  bits  of 
butter  and  a  very  little  salt  and  pepper;  continue  in  this  way  until 
the  dish  is  filled.  Pour  in  enough  milk  to  moisten  the  whole 
thoroughly  and  bake  forty  minutes. 

Tapioca  Pudding — Two  scant  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  soaked 
over  night.  Stir  into  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  cook  one-half 
hour.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  add  two 
scant  tablespoonfuls  of  prepared  cocoanut.  Take  from  fire  and 
stir  in  this  mixture.  Set  on  stove  again  and  cook  three  minutes. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  spread 
the  meringue  over  the  top  and  place  in  oven  to  brown. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Dougherty. 

No.  229  East  8th  street,  St.  Paul,  Minn. 


SATURDAY,  FEBRUARY  THE  TWENTY-SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  bananas. 

Spanish  eggs.  Fried  sweet  potatoes. 

Southern  waffles.      Maple  sirup. 

White  coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Smelts  en  Marinade. 

Bread.  Butter.  Pickles. 

Date  sandwiches.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Hot  rolls. 

Stewed  steak  with  oysters. 

Spaghetti   and   cheese   Romaine. 

Danish  pudding.  Chocolate  Menier. 


Spanish  Eggs — Cook  one  cupful  of  rice  thirty  minutes  in  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  to  which  has  been  added  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Drain  through  a  colander  and  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Spread  very  lightly  on  a  hot  platter.  On  the 
rice  place  six  dropped  eggs  and  serve. 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes — Cut  sweet  potatoes  into  slips  not 
thicker  than  a  pencil,  throw  them  into  hot  lard  in  a  frying-pan. 
They  are  done  when  they  float  in  the  lard.  They  will  fry  best 
with  the  lard  only  moderately  hot.  Being  sweet,  they  are  apt  to 
get  too  dark  a  color  if  not  watched. 

Southern  Waffles — These  are  very  nice  and  appetizing.  Take 
one  pint  of  sifted  flour,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  table- 
spoonful  melted  butter  or  lard,  an  egg  (beaten  separately),  and 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  93 

mix  all  together  in  a  thin  batter  with  sweet  milk.  Fry  brown  and 
crisp  in  a  well-greased  waffle-iron. 

White  Coffee— Is  made  with  coffee  that,  instead  of  being 
browned,  is  only  baked  to  a  slight  yellow  color  and  is  not  ground, 
or  at  least  is  only  bruised,  and  is  made  with  one-half  milk  and 
one-half  water.  It  requires  twice  as  much  coffee  as  the  ordinary 
way,  but  makes  a  change.  If  the  berries  have  been  parched  be- 
fore wanted,  heat  them  over  again  and  throw  them  hot  into  the 
boiling  water.  Cover  and  let  stand  to  draw  half  an  hour,  then  add 
the  boiling  milk.  To  prevent  the  milk  burning  while  heating, 
put  in  a  tablespoonf ul  or  two  of  sugar.  A  tablespoonf ul  of 
whipped  cream  on  the  top  of  each  cup  is  a  pretty  addition. 

Smelts  en  Marinade — Select  a  pound  of  small,  fresh  smelts, 
fry  to  a  light  brown  in  a  very  little  salad  oil  of  the  best  quality. 
When  cold  sprinkle  them  with  chopped  onion,  two  crumbled  bay 
leaves,  quarter-teaspoonful  of  pepper,  half-teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  cover  them  with  a  cupful  of  cold  vinegar  which  has  been 
boiled  with  a  clove,  a  pinch  of  sugar  and  shred  of  red  pepper.  Let 
them  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  add  to  the  vinegar  a  spoonful 
of  sweet  oil  and  serve  cold. 

Date  Sandwiches — One  scant  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful 
of  butter, one  egg  and  one  cupful  of  thin, sour  cream;  add  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  of  vanilla.  Flour  enough  to  roll  very 
thin.  Roll  out  in  one  long  sheet.  Spread  with  split  dates  and 
cover  with  another  thin  sheet  of  the  paste.  Press  well  together 
and  cut  in  squares  or  rounds  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  These  may 
be  made  nicer  by  icing.  Another  way  is  to  roll  out  light  bread 
dough,  butter  well,  spread  with  dates,  cover  and  let  them  rise. 
Wash  the  tops  with  milk  before  baking.    Good  hot  or  cold. 

Stewed  Steak  with  Oysters — Two  pounds  of  rump  steak,  one 
pint  of  oysters,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  three  of  butter, 
one  of  flour,  salt,  pepper,  one  cupful  of  water.  Wash  the  oysters 
in  the  water  and  strain  into  a  stewpan.  Put  this  liquor  on  to  boil. 
As  soon  as  it  boils  skim  and  set  back.  Put  the  butter  into  a 
frying-pan,  and  when  hot  put  in  the  steak.  Cook  ten  minutes. 
Sprinkle  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Take  out  the  steak  and  stir 
the  flour  into  the  butter  in  the  pan.  Stir  until  it  is  a  dark  brown. 
Add  the  oyster  liquor  and  boil  one  minute.  Season  with  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  dash  of  pepper.  Put  back  the  steak,  cover  the  pan  and 
simmer  a  half-hour;  then  add  the  oysters  and  lemon  juice  and 
boil  one  minute.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  with  points  of  toast  for  a 
garnish. 

Spaghetti  and  Cheese  Romaine — Two  cupfuls  broken  spag- 
hetti, one  cupful  minced  cheese,  one  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  two  yolks  of  eggs.  This  dish  should  be  quite  yellow.  Cook 
the  spaghetti  in  boiling  salted  water  twenty  minutes  and  drain 
dry.  Put  the  cheese,  butter  and  half  the  milk  into  a  saucepan 
and  stir  them  over  the  fire  until  the  cheese  is  nearly  melted.  Mix 
the  yolks  with  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  pour  that  into  the  sauce- 
pan. Add  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  same  of  pepper.  Then  add  the 
whole  to  the  spaghetti.    Put  it  in  a  baking  dish  and  bake  to  a 


94  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

yellow  brown  as  quickly  as  possible.  If  cooked  too  long  it  will 
become  tough. 

Danish  Pudding — One  cupful  of  tapioca,  three  generous  pints 
of  cold  water,  half  a  teaspoonful  salt,  half  a  teacupful  sugar,  one 
tumbler  of  any  kind  of  bright  jelly.  Wash  the  tapioca  and  soak 
it  in  the  water  all  night.  In  the  morning  put  on  in  the  double 
boiler  and  cook  one  hour,  stirring  often.  Add  salt,  sugar  and 
jelly  and  mix  thoroughly.  Turn  into  a  mold  that  has  been  dipped 
in  cold  water  and  set  away  to  cool  and  harden.  Serve  with  cream 
and  sugar.  Harriet  Mann. 

No.  1421  Central  street,  Evanston,  111. 


SUNDAY,   FEBRUARY  THE   TWENTY-EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Silver  prunes  stewed. 

Poached  eggs.  Cream  toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Roman  meat  pudding. 

Sliced  brown  bread.      Rice  croquettes. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Bouillon  with  mound  of  rice. 

Roast  turkey  with  mushroom  and  oyster  dressing. 

Cranberries.      Giblet  sauce.      Bread. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Snow  pudding.  Lebkiichen. 

Coffee. 


Roman  Meat  Pudding — Break  up  a  trifle  and  parboil  ten 
minutes  in  salted  water  half-cup  of  vermicelli.  Drain.  Mince 
fine  a  coffee  cupful  of  any  cold  meats  that  are  desirable,  such  as 
cold  veal,  chicken,  mutton  or  beef  (and  there  is  nearly  always 
some  on  hand).  To  this  add  one  cup  of  good  stock  (gravy  or 
cold  soup  is  as  good),  nicely  flavored,  one  egg,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  tomato  sauce,  the  half-cup  of  parboiled  vermicelli.  Mix 
all  well  together  and  season  with  a  tablespoon  each  of  minced 
onion  and  parsley,  a  heaping  saltspoon  of  salt  and  a  quarter  salt- 
spoon  of  pepper.  Have  ready  some  macaroni  boiled  tender  in 
salted  water;  it  should  be  in  three-inch  lengths,  about  one  pint. 
Line  a  neat  greased  mold  with  the  macaroni,  fill  in  the  mince 
meat,  place  cover  on  mold,  steam  half  an  hour.  Turn  out  of 
mold;    serve  with  a  white  sauce. 

Boiled  Rice — Creole — Wash  a  cup  of  rice  thoroughly,  chang- 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  95 

ing  the  water  several  times,  for  upon  thorough  washing  depends 
its  purity  and  snowy  appearance  when  boiled.  Place  it  in  a 
granite  saucepan  containing  two  cuptuls  of  "boiling  water,"  add 
a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  stir  the  rice  when  it  begins  to  boil.  The 
stirring  must  not  be  repeated.  It  must  be  boiled  rapidly,  without 
cover,  until  the  water  sinks  below  its  surface,  then  cover  closely 
and  set  the  saucepan  in  such  a  position  on  the  stove  as  will  insure 
continued  steaming  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  but  will  not  render 
the  rice  liable  to  scorch.  Take  off  the  cover  when  done  and  allow 
the  rice  to  stand  in  the  same  position  until  it  is  quite  dry,  and  no 
more  steam  escapes.  Re-cover  tightly  and  set  the  saucepan  to 
one  side  to  cool,  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  invert  on  a  plate. 
The  rice  will  slip  out  in  a  neat  cake.  Grate  nutmeg  over  it  and 
send  to  table.      It  will  slice  neatly. 

Turkey — Now  when  we  can  buy  turkey  for  eight  cents  a 
pound  let  us  have  one  for  dinner.  At  this  price  it  must  be  coarse 
and  tough  and  must  be  parboiled,  but  if  we  pay  a  little  more 
we  need  not  parboil  it.  However,  I  prefer  to  cook  mine  this  way 
and  it  will  be  as  good  as  a  younger  one.  A  ten-pound  one  will 
cost  eighty  cents.  Singe,  draw  carefully,  and  wipe  well  with  a 
damp  cloth  wet  with  a  flour  and  water  paste.  In  cutting  to  re- 
move crop,  cut  the  skin  on  the  back  of  neck,  take  out  the  crop 
and  cut  the  neck  off  as  near  the  breast  bone  as  possible.  In  this 
cavity  place  some  dressing.  Sew  up  the  skin  on  the  back  of  the 
neck  and  fold  it  over,  that  the  breast  may  be  plump  and  un- 
broken. Put  the  remainder  of  the  dressing  in  the  body,  sew  up 
the  rent,-  and  truss  the  turkey  compactly.  Place  in  a  large  pot 
or  boiler — a  regular  ham  and  turkey  boiler  is  best — cover  with 
boiling  water  and  boil  moderately  and  steadily,  until  nice  and 
tender;  when  pricked  with  a  fork  the  juice  will  escape.  (It  will 
have  been  necessary  to  turn  it,  mayhap,  so  it  will  cook  evenly.) 
At  this  juncture  remove,  rub  well  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
salt;  now  lay  in  the  roaster,  which  must  be  hot,  any  surplus  fat 
removed  from  the  turkey  or,  in  the  absence  of  this,  use  a  good 
spoon  of  butter;  lay  upon  it  the  turkey;  and  lay  more  butter 
on  the  top  of  it,  spreading  evenly;  add  a  half -cup  of  boiling 
water,  and  brown  in  the  oven,  basting  frequently;  this  usually 
requires  one  hour,  or  mayhap  a  trifle  longer,  and  the  turkey, 
dressing  and  sauce  will  be  sufficient  for  dinner  two  days  and 
luncheon  twice,  and  then  finally  soup. 

Turkey  Dressing — Take  one  quart  of  bread  crumbs.  Place 
in  a  deep  dish  and  add  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter.  Rub  this 
thoroughly  through  the  crumbs  and  add  to  it  one  tablespoon  of 
mixed  herbs,  rubbed  fine,  also  a  pinch  of  ground  mace,  a  heaping 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  half  as  much  pepper.  Select  twelve  nice 
mushrooms,  either  fresh  or  canned,  and  twelve  nicely  drained 
oysters — drained  well.  Chop  fine,  mix  with  the  bread  crumbs, 
add  a  beaten  egg  to  hold  all  together,  and  fill  the  turkey  with  it. 

Sauce— Stew  the  giblets,  heart,  gizard,  liver,  neck,  and  tips  of 
wings,  in  one  pint  of  hot  water 'until  tender.  Chop  fine,  removing 
hard  portions.    Salt  and  pepper,  add  in  small  quantity;  return  to 


96       THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

pan  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Chop  fine  six  nice  oysters  and  six 
mushrooms.  When  turkey  is  removed  from  roaster,  stir  into  the 
remaining  sauce  two  tablespoons  of  browned  flour,  when  well 
cooked  together,  add  the  chopped  giblets  and  their  sauce,  also  the 
chopped  mushrooms  and  oysters;  add  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice, 
boil  up  and  serve. 

Snow  Pudding — One-quarter  box  of  gelatine,  whites  of  three 
eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  pint  of  hot  water;  juice  of  one  large 
lemon;  dissolve  gelatine  in  the  water;  then  add  lemon  juice  and 
sugar;  mix  well  and  strain  through  a  cloth  into  a  mixing  bowl  to 
cool.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  as  soon  as  the 
gelatine  mixture  begins  to  thicken  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  and 
continue  to  whip  until  it  is  very  thick  and  snow  white  all  through. 
It  will  take  a  half-hour  or  longer  and  the  colder  the  ingredients 
the  better  your  success.  Either  mold  into  forms,  or  pile  in  a 
pyramid  and  leave  space  around  it.  Keep  on  ice  till  the  next  day. 
This  pudding  will  be  suflicient  for  two  meals  and  sometimes 
three,  if  family  is  not  hearty;  and  should  be  served  with  a  soft, 
fresh  custard  poured  around  it. 

Custard — One  pint  of  hot  milk,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  pinch  of 
salt,  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  little  grated  lemon  rind.  Cook  in 
double  boiler  until  of  the  consistency  of  rich  cream;    serve  cold. 

Lebkiichen — Pour  eggs,  one  pound  of  flour,  beat  in  one  direc- 
tion one-half  an  hour;  half  a  pound  of  crushed  almonds,  one- 
quarter  pound  of  sliced  citron,  one  lemon,  one  orange,  half  an 
ounce  of  cinnamon,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  allspice,  half  scant  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one- 
half  cup  of  molasses.  Cream  the  eggs  and  sugar.  Mix  the  al- 
monds and  flour  and  add  to  the  previous  mixture;  grate  into  it 
the  peel  of  one  lemon  and  the  orange;  stir  all  together,  adding 
the  juice  of  each;  stir  in  the  molasses  (or  honey  is  better),  then 
add  lastly  the  baking  powder.  Stir  hard  and  well;  roll  out,  and 
cut  into  small  rounds  and  squares.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 
When  cold,  spread  lightly  with  frosting.  Will  keep  any  length 
of  time  and  are  especially  good  this  time  of  year.  These  will 
serve  five  people  about  one  dozen  times. 

Box  56,  Holdrege,  Neb.  Miss  Georgine  Poote. 


MONDAY,  MARCH  THE  PIRST. 


BREAKPAST. 

Wheat  hearts  and  cream. 

Browned  hash.  Buttered  toast; 

Baked  apples.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Jambalaya. 

Potatoes  a  la  Parisienne.  Graham  bread. 

Grapes  in  sirup.  Tea. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  91 

DINNER. 

Baked  vegetable  soup. 

Cold  turkey.      Stuffed  potatoes. 

Cabbage  cold  slaw.  Catsup. 

Brown  pudding.  Coffee. 


Jambalaya — Wash  one-half  a  pound  of  rice  and  soak  it  for 
an  hour  in  cold  water;  cut  up  one-half  pound  of  sausage  and  one- 
half  pound  of  ham,  a  small  piece  of  red  pepper,  one  small  onion, 
one  large  tomato  (or  one-half  cup  of  canned  tomatoes),  and  a 
sprig  of  parsley.  Fry  these  in  a  heaping  spoonful  of  lard,  then 
add  a  pint  of  water  and  the  rice;  cover  the  pot  and  set  where  it 
can  cook  slowly  one-half  hour.  Serve  hot.  Chicken,  oysters  or 
shrimps  may  be  substituted  for  the  sausage.  This  amount  is  suf- 
ficient for  two  meals. 

Potatoes  a  la  Parisienne — Pare  six  large  potatoes,  cut  them 
into  squares,  soak  in  cold  water  one-half  hour;  drain,  and  put 
into  frying  basket.  Have  a  pint  of  fat  at  boiling  heat,  put  the 
basket  in  the  fat  carefully,  let  cook  ten  minutes,  drain,  season 
with  salt;   serve  very  hot. 

Grapes  in  Sirup — Place  your  cans  (with  a  few  nails  under 
each  can,  to  prevent  the  heat  from  breaking  them)  in  warm 
water,  let  them  heat  to  almost  boiling  point;  fill  each  can  full 
of  fresh  grapes;  fill  the  can  with  boiling  v/ater  and  let  stand 
until  grapes  change  color;  turn  off  the  water;  have  a  sirup 
ready;  allow  two  coffee  cupfuls  of  sugar  to  two  of  water;  boil  ten 
minutes,  pour  over  the  grapes  hot,  seal  airtight.  These  will  keep 
any  length  of  time  and  are  delicious;    the  juice  is  like  wine. 

Brown  Pudding— One  teacupf ul  of  molasses,  one  teacupf ul  suet 
chopped  fine,  one  teacupful  seeded  raisins,  one  half  teaspoonfal 
of  salt,  three  and  one-half  teacupfuls  flour,  one  teaspoonful  eacn 
of  cinnamon  and  allspice,  a  pinch  of  cloves,  one-half  teaspoonful 
soda,  dissolved  in  the  molasses;  steam  three  hours. 

Sauce — One  teacupful  sugar,  three-quarters  teacupful  butter, 
mix  to  a  cream,  add  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  a  pint 
of  boiling  water;  cook  five  minutes.  The  pudding  is  sufiicient  for 
three  meals.  Mrs.  P.  M.  Byrne. 

Miranda,  S.  D. 


TUESDAY,  MARCH  THE  SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Chicken  croquettes.  Fried  potatoes. 

Cream  toast.         Stewed  apricots. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg,         Steamed  brown  bread. 
Orange  jelly.  Tea. 


9S  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOlC. 

DINNER. 

Pur6e  of  potatoes.  Fried  veal  cutlets. 

Baked  sweet  potatoes.      Lima  beans. 

Apple  tapioca  pudding.    Coffee. 


Chicken  Croquettes— For  one  pint  of  finely  chopped  chicken 
make  the  following  sauce:  Rub  smoothly  together  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Stir 
this  mixture  into  a  cup  of  boiling  milk  and  cook  until  it  thickens. 
Mix  this  well  with  the  meat  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Shape,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard.    Turkey  may  be  used  in  the  same  manner. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg — Melt  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  rub  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Add  one  pint  of  milk  and  cook  until 
it  begins  to  thicken.  Then  add  one  can  of  lobster  that  has  been 
picked  into  small  pieces,  cook  a  minute  longer  and  pour  over 
toast.  Serve  with  slices  of  lemon.  This  is  much  better  made  of 
fresh  lobster. 

Orange  Jelly — Soak  one-fourth  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one- 
fourth  of  a  cup  of  cold  water  for  half  an  hour.  Add  half  a  cup 
of  boiling  water,  the  same  quantity  also  of  lemon  juice  and  sugar, 
and  a  cup  of  orange  juice.  Stir  until  the  gelatine  is  entirely  dis- 
solved, strain  through  a  cloth  and  set  away  to  mold.  This  should 
be  made  immediately  after  breakfast  and  set  in  a  cold  place  to 
harden. 

Puree  of  Potatoes — Boil  and  mash  in  two  quarts  of  water  four 
large  potatoes,  a  small  onion,  two  stalks  of  celery  and  a  sprig 
of  parsley.  When  done  pass  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  flre, 
add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  two  generous  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  rubbed  into  one  of  flour.  Boil  up  once  and  pour  into  a 
soup  tureen  over  a  cupful  of  rich  milk. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding — To  one-third  of  a  cup  of  pearl  tap- 
ioca add  one  pint  of  cold  water.  Place  on  the  stove  and  cook 
until  clear,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  burning.  Remove  from 
the  fire,  sweeten  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  add  a  very  little  grated 
nutmeg  and  pour  into  a  pudding  dish  in  which  are  five  tart  apples, 
pared  and  cored.  Bake  until  the  apples  are  tender  and  serve  cold 
with  cream.  Mrs.  J.  V.  Porter. 

Kenosha,  Wis. 


WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  THE  THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Wheat  flakes  and  cream. 

Egg  toast.  Doughnuts. 

Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  99 

LUNCHEON. 

Minced  veal.  Bread  and  butter. 

Saratoga  chips. 

Sweet  cucumber  pickles. 

.     Sponge  cake.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Celery  soup. 

Roast   beef,  with  Yorkshire   pudding. 

Browned  potatoes. 

Lettuce,  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mock  cherry  pie. 

Coffee. 

Doughnuts — One  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two  eggs,  three 
cupfuls  of  unsifted  flour,  sifted  with  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Add 
flour  to  roll  out;  mix  very  soft.  Roll  one-half  inch  thick,  cut 
in  rings  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  lard.  While  warm  roll  in  pulver- 
ized sugar.     This  recipe  will  make  enough  for  four  breakfasts. 

Minced  Veal — Two  cupfuls  of  chopped  cold  roast  veal,  a  large 
saltspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Moisten 
with  one  beaten  egg  and  a  small  cupful  of  either  stock,  gravy  or 
water;  if  the  latter  add  one  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter.  Put 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  press  down,  cover  and  put  in  a  steamer 
for  an  hour.  Then  spread  a  beaten  yolk  of  egg  on  top;  strew  with 
fine  grated  bread  crumbs;  brown  in  the  oven.  Take  out  and  mois- 
ten the  crumbs  with  one  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  hot  water.  Thin  slices  of  lemon  may  be  used  as  a 
garnish. 

Saratoga  Chips — Take  six  medium-sized  potatoes,  pare  and 
slice  very  thin  on  a  slaw-cutter  in  a  pan  of  cold  water;  change  the 
water  two  or  three  times,  squeezing  the  slices  carefully  each  time 
to  get  all  the  starch  out  (it  is  the  starch  that  toughens  them); 
they  should  be  in  cold  water  at  least  one  hour;  ice  water  is 
preferable.  Then  spread  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  muslin  on 
a  table,  take  out  the  slices  and  cover  with  more  muslin  (exposure 
to  the  air  discolors  them),  pat  gently  till  the  moisture  is  ab- 
sorbed, then  fry  in  hot  fat;  when  a  delicate  brown  take  out  in  a 
colander  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt.  Only  a  few  slices  can  be 
fried  at  a  time. 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles — Get  six  large  cucumber  pickles  from 
the  grocer,  cut  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick  and  soak  in  cold  water 
for  an  hour.  Make  a  thick  sirup  of  one  coffeecupful  of  granulated 
sugar,  one  teacupful  of  vinegar;  tie  up  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
cinnamon  and  cloves  in  a  piece  of  muslin;  boil  all  to  a  thick  sirup, 
then  drain  the  cucumbers  and  add  to  the  sirup,  set  them  back  on 
the  range  and  simmer  gently  for  three  hours, 


100  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Sponge  Cake — Two  beaten  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar;  beat 
thoroughly;  one-third  cupful  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  either 
lemon  or  vanilla,  then  add  one  cupful  of  flour  in  which  has  been 
sifted  one  small  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  stirring  as  little  as 
possible.    Bake  in  a  square  pan  and  cut  in  six  squares. 

Roast  Beef  with  Yorkshire  Pudding — A  nice  roast  of  beef  oc- 
casionally is  economy,  for  after  the  nicest  slices  have  done  duty 
for  dinner  and  luncheons  the  small  pieces  and  scraps  may  be 
heated  quickly  in  some  of  the  brown  gravy  with  which  the  roast 
was  first  served  and  which  should  always  be  saved,  and  you  will 
have  another  nice  meal  from  it. 

Yorkshire  Pudding — One  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two-thirds  of 
a  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  three  eggs,  or  the  yolk 
of  one  egg  may  be  spared  to  use  on  the  top  of  the  '''minced  veal" 
in  the  recipe  given  above.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  add  the  salt 
and  milk,  then  pour  about  half  of  this  mixture  on  the  flour  and 
make  perfectly  smooth,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  milk.  Cut  in 
small  squares,  and  when  the  roast  is  about  half  done  lay  the  pieces 
of  dough  around  the  meat  and  baste  with  the  drippings.  Cook 
about  three-quarters  of  an  hour.    Serve  very  hot. 

Browned  Potatoes — Pare  five  or  six  medium-sized  potatoes, 
and  about  thirty  minutes  before  the  roast  is  done  lay  them  on 
the  bottom  of  the  roasting  pan  and  baste  with  the  drippings. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  for  Lettuce — The  yolks  of  two  eggs,  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  small  pinch 
of  cayenne  pepper,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  best  olive  oil,  one  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard.  Put  the  eggs 
in  a  china  bowl,  add  salt,  pepper  and  mustard,  stir  thoroughly 
with  a  fork,  and  drop  in  very  slowly  the  oil  until  it  thickens;  then 
add  the  vinegar  and  lemon  juice,  stirring  all  the  time  until  well 
mixed. 

Mock  Cherry  Pie — One  cupful  of  cranberries;  cut  into  each 
one  with  a  knife  (this  keeps  them  from  bursting  and  cooking  to 
pieces),  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  water  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour  vv^et  in  a  little  of  the  water.  Stir  all  to- 
gether and  bake  between  two  crusts.  The  pie  should  be  baked 
early  in  the  day,  or  before  the  roast  is  in  the  oven,  as  the  steam 
and  smoke  will  ruin  pie  crust.  Mrs.  Olive  P.  Abbott. 

P.  O.  Box  119,  Reading,  Mich. 


THURSDAY,  MARCH  THE  FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Chopped  dates)  with  oatmeal  and  cream. 

Beauregard  eggs.         Rolls. 

Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  101 

LUNCHEON. 

Fricassee  of  calf's  heart. 

Bread  and  butter.  Orange  apple  sauce. 

Graham  wafers. 


DINNER. 

Breslau  of  beef.         Mashed  potatoes. 

Macaroni  in  cheese  shell. 

Mayonnaise  of  celery.  Rice  Jelly. 

Coffee. 


Chopped  Dates,  with  Oatmeal — Stone  the  dates  and  cut  them 
small;  place  in  a  bowl,  pour  over  the  hot  oatmeal,  and  by  the 
time  you  are  ready  to  serve  it  will  be  flavored  with  the  dates  and 
the  dates  moistened. 

Dates  may  be  used  in  the  same  manner  in  all  other  porridges. 

Fricassee  of  Calf's  Heart — Soak  one  calf's  heart  for  one  hour 
in  cold  water,  wash  thoroughly  and  remove  all  blood.  Cut  into 
pieces  about  one  inch  square,  discarding  all  sinew  and  gristle. 
Throw  into  the  kettle,  just  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  a  slice 
of  onion,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  sprig  of  parsley.  Simmer  gently  for 
one  hour,  or  until  the  heart  is  tender.  Rub  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  and  one  of  butter  together.  Stir  it  carefully  into  the  stew 
and  stir  until  smooth  and  thick.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
dash  of  pepper.  Have  ready  some  nicely  boiled  rice,  arrange  it 
neatly  around  the  platter,  put  the  fricassee  in  the  center,  sprinkle 
over  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

Orange  Apple  Sauce — Pare,  core  and  cut  into  quarters  one 
pound  of  apples.  Put  three-quarters  pound  of  sugar  and  a  half-pint 
of  water  on  to  boil.  Boil  and  skim;  add  grated  rind  of  one  orange, 
boil  a  moment  longer  until  sirup-like,  then  add  the  pulp  of  two 
oranges  and  the  apples.  Cover  the  saucepan  and  cook  very  slowly 
until  the  apples  are  clear  and  tender.    Serve  cold. 

Breslau  of  Beef — One  pint  of  cold  chopped  beef,  one  gill  of 
stock,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one-half  cup  dry  bread  crumbs; 
one-half  pint  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Beat  the  yolks  and  mix  all  the  ingredients 
well  together.  Brush  custard  cups  with  melted  butter,  press  the 
breslau  into  them,  stand  in  a  baking-pan  partly  filled  with  boil- 
ing water  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  When  done 
turn  from  the  cups  on  to  a  heated  platter  and  pour  around  a 
tomato  sauce. 

Macaroni  in  Cheese  Shell — Break  four  ounces  of  macaroni 
into  pieces  about  two  inches  long.  Throw  into  boiling  water,  boil 
rapidly  twenty  minutes;  drain  and  put  into  the  shell  of  a  pine- 
apple or  Edam  cheese,  from  which  the  inside  has  been  used. 
Make  a  plain  cream  sauce,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  in 
the  shell  over  the  macaroni,  stand  the  shell  on  a  pie  dish  and 


102  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes.  Serve  on  a  napkin, 
helping  the  macaroni  from  the  shell. 

Rice  Jelly — Cover  a  quarter  of  a  box  of  gelatine  with  a  quar- 
ter of  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  let  it  soak  half  an  hour.  Boil  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  rice  in  a  large  kettle  of  rapidly  boiling  water 
for  thirty  minutes.  Allow  the  rice  to  boil  rapidly  so  that  the 
grains  will  not  stick  together;  drain  and  turn  the  rice  carefully 
on  a  towel,  spread  it  out  and  roll  the  towel  from  side  to  side 
until  the  rice  is  free  from  moisture.  Whip  one  pint  of  cream, 
put  it  in  a  basin,  place  basin  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice;  add  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Add  carefully  the  rice.  Stand  the  gelatine  over  the  teakettle  until 
dissolved;  strain  it  slowly  into  the  cream  and  stir  constantly,  but 
carefully,  until  the  whole  is  partly  congealed.  Turn  into  molds 
that  have  been  wet  with  cold  water  and  stand  aside  to  harden. 
Take  one-half  tumbler  of  jelly,  currant  or  crab  apple,  add  to  it 
a  gill  of  water,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  thoroughly  melted; 
cool.  When  the  pudding  is  ready  to  serve  turn  from  the  mold, 
pour  over  this  sauce  and  serve. 

Batavia,  111.  .  Mrs.  E.  E.  Burton. 


FRIDAY,  MARCH  THE  FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Silver-flake  hominy,  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Spiced  apples.         Savory  omelet. 

Singing  hinney. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Steamed  Indian  bread.         Crab-apple  jelly. 

Dresden  patties.         Crisp  lettuce. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Rice   an'd   tomato   soup. 

Tripe  a  la  Contance. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Scalloped  tomatoes. 

Currant  dumplings. 

Coffee. 


Spiced  Apples — Select  nice  sweet  apples;  cut  them  in  halves 
without  peeling  them;  take  out  the  core  and  stick  three  cloves  into 
each  half;  lay  them  in  a  greased  baking  dish;  sprinkle  sugar  an'd 
grated  nutmeg  over  them  and  dots  of  butter  and  just  a  little 
water.  Bake  in  hot  oven  about  thirty  minutes;  send  them  to  table 
in  th«  baking  dish. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  103 

Singing  Hinney— Take  one  quart  of  flour  and  sift  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder  into  it;  rub  in  one  tablespoon  of  lard; 
and  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one  wellrbeaten  egg.  Moisten  with 
just  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  into  dough,  not  too  stiff;  roll  out 
and  bake  on  greased  griddle;  when  it  is  cooked  on  one  side  turn  it 
over  and  let  it  cook  till  a  pale  brown  on  the  other  side;  then  split 
it  open,  butter  it  and  put  together  again;  cut  it  into  three-cornered 
pieces  and  serve  it  hot. 

Steamed  Indian  Bread — Three  cupfuls  of  buttermilk,  two  cup- 
fuls  of  sweet  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  cornmeal,  two  cupfuls  of  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  beat  thoroughly; 
put  in  a  greased  pan  and  steam  three  hours. 

Dresden  Patties — The  patty  cases  are  to  be  made  of  bread;  so 
cut  some  slices  of  bread  two  inches  thick;  stamp  them  out  with  a 
round  cutter;  take  out  the  inside  not  quite  through,  leaving  a 
bottom  to  each  case;  cut  a  little  lid  to  each  case,  dip  these  in  milk, 
let  them  dry  a  little;  then  egg  and  breadcrumb  cases  and  lids 
and  fry  a  light  brown  in  boiling  fat.  Make  a  sauce  of  one  ounce 
of  flour,  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  butter,  one-half  pint  of  stock 
or  water;  season  with  six  drops  of  lemon  juice,  just  a  dash  of  pep- 
per; chop  fine  four  ounces  of  veal  and  four  ounces  of  ham;  stir 
it  into  the  sauce  over  the  fire  till  quite  hot;  fill  each  patty  case 
with  this  hot  mixture  and  place  a  lid  on  top  of  each.  Serve  on  a 
napkin. 

This  is  a  very  good  way  of  using  up  odd  scraps  of  meat. 

Rice  and  Tomato  Soup — Strain  and  press  through  a  sieve  with 
a  wooden  spoon  one-half  of  a  three-pound  can  of  tomatoes;  stir 
into  them  two  quarts  of  clear  stock  that  has  been  made  from 
bones;  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper;  add  four  ounces  rice  that  has  been  well 
v/ashed  in  plenty  of  cold  water  and  boil  the  soup  slowly  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

Tripe  a  la  Contance — One  pound  of  thin  tripe,  one-half  pound 
bacon,  one  small  carrot,  juice  of  one-half  a  lemon,  one  small  onion, 
bouquet  garni,  parsle3^  two  ounces  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
Harvey  sauce,  one  ounce  of  flour,  one  pint  of  stock.  Wash  the 
tripe  in  cold  water  and  then  blanch  it — that  is,  put  it  on  in  cold 
water  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil — take  it  out  of  the  stewpan,  throw 
the  water  away,  dry  it  with  a  clean  cloth  and  cut  it  into  strips 
two  inches  wide  and  four  inches  long.  Cut  the  bacon  into  very 
thin  slices  the  same  size  as  the  strips  of  tripe.  Chop  up  the 
parsley  fine,  lay  the  strips  of  bacon  on  the  tripe,  sprinkle  a  little 
parsley  on  each,  roll  them  up  together  and  tie  round  with  string. 
Cut  up  the  onion  and  carrot  and  put  them  with  the  bouquet  garni 
into  a  stewpan  with  the  rolls  of  tripe  and  one  pint  of  stock,  and  let 
all  simmer  for  two  hours,  then  take  out  the  rolls  of  tripe.  Mix 
two  ounces  of  butter  and  one  ounce  of  fiour  together  in  a  stewpan, 
strain  the  stock  into  it,  stir  till  it  thickens,  add  the  lemon  juice 
and  Harvey  sauce,  also  the  rolls  of  tripe,  long  enough  to  get  hot 
through.  Arrange  the  tripe  in  a  circle  around  mashed  potatoes 
and  pour  the  'sauce  around, 


104  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Currant  Dumplings — One  pound  of  flour,  five  ounces  of  beef 
suet,  seven  ounces  of  currants.  Mince  the  suet  finely,  mix  v/ith  the 
flour  and  well-cleaned  currants,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  mix  into  a  dough  with  one  cup  of  water.  Divide  into  small 
dumplings  and  steam  them  one  and  one-half  hours.  Serve  with 
slices  of  lemon  and  butter  and  sugar. 

Anderson,  Ind.  Mrs.   H.  Ross   Edwards. 


SATURDAY,  MARCH  THE  SIXTH. 


BflBAKFAST. 

Sliced  oranges. 

Creamed  codfish  on  toast.  Fried  grits. 

Plain  wafiles.  Maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Beef  kidney,  terrapin  style. 

Stewed  tomatoes.  Pried  potatoes. 

Peach  sponge.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Veal  and  ham  pie.  Croquettes. 

Mixed  pickles.  Celery. 

Lettuce  with  egg. 

Apple  pie.  Cheese. 


Creamed  Codfish  on  Toast — To  one  cup  shredded  codfish  add 
two  of  water;  boil  briskly  twenty  minutes;  pour  off  water,  add 
one  and  a  half  cups  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  butter,  half  a 
saltspoonful  of  pepper,  one  beaten  egg.  Allow  this  to  simmer 
ten  minutes.    Serve  on  rounds  of  toasted  bread. 

Fried  Grits — Boil  one  or  two  cups  of  grits  the  day  before 
wanted  until  the  consistency  of  Indian  meal  mush.  Turn  out  in 
oblong  pan  to  cool.  When  wanted  cut  in  one-inch  slices  and  salt 
slightly.     Fry  quickly  in  boiling  fat. 

Beef  Kidney — Cut  one  beef  kidney  into  small  bits.  Cook 
thirty  minutes  in  salted  water.  When  tender  pour  off  water,  add 
one  small  onion  (grated),  one  or  two  leaves  of  sage,  one  cup  of 
water.  Bring  this  to  a  brisk  boiling  point,  add  a  pinch  of  salt, 
thicken  with  one  tablespoonful  cornstarch,  and  just  before  serv- 
ing add  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  coarsely.  Serve  with  or 
without  toast. 

Peach  Sponge — Dissolve  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  two  cups 
of  boiling  water.  Warm  one-half  can  of  canned  peaches  or  the 
same  amount  of  sweetened  evaporated  peaches.    Press  through  a 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  105 

colander,  add  to  gelatine;  also  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla.  Beat  ten  minutes.  Pour  in  mold,  let  cool 
and  serve  with  cream. 

Tomato  Soup — Make  one  quart  of  stock  with  a  lean  piece  of 
beef.  To  this  add  one-half  a  grated  onion,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  saltspoonful  of  celery  salt  and  pepper.  Drain  the  juice 
from  one  can  tomatoes  (using  the  meat  for  luncheon).  Add  this 
to  the  beef  stock.  Then  break  into  small  bits  five  or  six  sticks  of 
macaroni  and  add.    When  these  are  soft,  serve  at  once. 

Veal  and  Ham  Pie — One  and  a  half  cups  of  finely  chopped 
stewed  veal  (cold  roast  veal  will  answer),  one  cup  chopped  cold 
ham,  one  small  onion  grated,  one  saltspoonful  pepper,  one  egg, 
one-half  cup  of  water.  Mix  well  and  bake  with  an  upper  crust 
only. 

Potato  and  Rice  Croquettes — One  cup  cold  mashed  potatoes, 
one  of  cold  boiled  rice,  one  beaten  egg,  two  saltspoonfuls  of  salt, 
one  of  pepper,  one  of  celery  salt  if  liked.  Mix  with  one-half  cup 
of  milk.  Form  into  croquettes,  dredge  with  flour  and  fry  quickly 
in  boiling  fat. 

Apple  Pie — Two  dups  of  apple  sauce  well  sweetened,  one  salt- 
spoonful cinnamon,  one-half  cup  seedless  raisins  boiled  for  ten 
minutes,  two  egg  yolks.  Mix  this  and  bake  with  one  crust.  V7hen 
in  oven  fifteen  minutes  remove.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  two 
whites  slightly  svv^eetened,  arrange  over  fruit  and  set  in  oven  to 
brown.     Serve  cold.  Mildred  Douglas. 

No.  4211  St.  Lawrence  Avenue,  Chicago. 


SUNDAY,  MARCH  THE  SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Quaker  oats  blanc  mange. 

Bread  omelet.  Fruit  corn  muffins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Boiled  calf's  feet  and  parsley  butter. 

Hominy  croquettes.  Tomato  preserves. 

Cream  puffs.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Stewed  squirrels.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Vanilla  snow  eggs.  Coffee. 


Quaker  Oats  Blanc  Mange — ^Bring  one  quart  sweet  milk  to  a 
boil,  salt  slightly  and  stir  in  one  cupful  quaker  oats.  Cook  thirty 
minutes,  stirring  well.  Just  before  removing  from  the  fire  stir  in 
two  eggs  very  well  beaten.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold  with  cream 
or  sugar. 


106  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Bread  Omelet— Crumble  a  cupful  stale  bread  crumbs  and  soak 
them  in  half  a  teacupful  of  milk.  Then  beat  them  quite  smooth 
and  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  three  beaten  eggs.  Butter 
a  shallow  pudding  dish  well,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  bake  in  an 
oven  about  ten  minutes;  serve  at. once  in  the  same  dish,  as  it 
falls  quickly. 

Fruit  Corn  Muflins — Take  two  cups  grains  of  gold,  one  cup 
white  flour,  four  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  two 
teaspoonfuis  baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  two  eggs, 
one  and  a  half  cupfuls  milk,  one  cupful  of  any  kind  of  fruit,  peeled 
and  sliced.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes  in  mufiin  pans. 

Boiled  Calf's  Feet  and  Parsley  Butter — Procure  two  white 
calf's  feet;  bone  them  as  far  as  the  first  joint  and  put  them  into 
warm  water  to  soak  for  two  hours.  Then  put  two  slices  of  bacon, 
two  ounces  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  salt  and 
whole  pepper  to  taste,  one  onion,  a  bunch  of  savory  herbs,  four 
cloves,  one  blade  of  mace,  into  a  stew-pan;  lay  in  the  feet,  and 
pour  in  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  whole.  Stew  gently 
for  about  three  hours;  take  out  the  feet,  dish  them  and  cover 
with  parsley  and  butter.  The  liquor  they  were  boiled  in  should 
be  strained  and  put  by  in  a  clean  basin  for  use;  it  will  be  found 
very  good  as  an  addition  to  gravies,  etc. 

Stewed  Squirrels — Three  fine  gray  squirrels,  skinned  and 
cleaned;  joint  as  you  would  chickens  for  fricassee;  half-pound  of 
fat  salt  pork,  one  onion  (if  liked)  sliced,  half-can  of  corn,  half- 
can  of  tomatoes,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
four  sprigs  of  parsley,  enough  water  to  coyer  squirrels.  Put  on 
squirrels,  pork  (cut  up  small),  onion  and  parsley  in  the  water 
and  bring  to  boil.  When  this  has  lasted  ten  minutes  put  in  corn, 
and  stev/  until  squirrels  are  tender.  Then  add  tomatoes,  and 
twenty  minutes  later  stir  in  butter  and  flour.  Simmer  ten  minutes, 
and  serve  in  a  large,  deep  dish. 

Vanilla  Snow  Eggs — Beat  stiff  the  whites  of  six  eggs  with  a 
very  small  pinch  of  salt;  have  ready  on  the  fire  a  pint  of  milk 
sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla;  as  soon  as  it  boils  drop  the 
beaten  eggs  into  it  by  tablespoonfuls,  and  as  soon  as  they  become 
set  dip  them  out  with  a  tin;  slice  and  arrange  them  according 
to  fancy  upon  a  broad  dish;  allow  the  milk  to  cool  a  little,  and 
then  stir  in  the  yolks  of  eggs  gradually.  When  thick  pour  around 
the  snowed  eggs  and  serve  cold.  Mrs.  C.  J.  Sunde. 

No.  328  South  Western  Avenue,  Chicago. 


MONDAY,  MARCH  THE  EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 
Pruen's  wheat  wafers,  cream  and  sugar. 
Creamed  salt  mackerel.  Mush  croquettes. 

Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  107 

LUNCHEON. 

Ham  pate.  Hominy  muffins. 

Strained  honey. 

Warm  ginger  bread.  Cream  cheeie. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Puree  of  beans. 

Boiled  beefsteak  pudding.  Potato  souffle. 

Fried  parsnips. 

Lettuce  salad.  Salted  wafers. 

Cream  pie.  Coffee. 

Creamed  Salt  Mackerel — Soak  the  fish  all  night  and  wipe  dry 
before  using.  Broil  on  a  butter  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire.  Lay 
on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  over  it  a  cream  sauce  made  as  follows: 
Into  one  cup  of  boiling  milk  stir  tv/o  teaspoonfuls  of  cornstarch, 
rubbed  smooth  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  cook  until  well 
thickened;  add  a  well-beaten  egg,  mixing  carefully  to  prevent 
curdling;  cook  a  moment  longer,  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley  and  a  saitspoonful  of  pepper. 

Mush  Croquettes — Make  one  pint  of  cornmeal  mush  with  yel- 
low meal  and  boiling  water;  while  the  mush  is  hot  stir  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  then  set  away  to  cool.  When  lukewarm 
add  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  one  saitspoonful  of  salt.  Form  into 
croquettes  three  inches  long,  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat  till  a  golden 
brown,  lay  on  soft  paper  to  absorb  superfluous  grease,  and  serve 
hot. 

Hominy  Muffins — Mash  fine  with  a  fork  one  cup  of  cold  hom- 
iny left  from  yesterday's  breakfast,  add  one  cup  of  cornmeal,  one 
saltspoon  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  pow^der,  two  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter,  one  egg  and  half 
a  cup  of  milk.  Beat  hard  for  three  minutes,  pour  into  buttered 
gem-pans  and  bake  in  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Puree  of  Beans — A  cupful  of  cold  baked  beans  left  from  the 
Saturday's  dinner  furnishes  the  foundation  for  this  m^ost  excel- 
lent soup.  The  beans  having  been  already  well  seasoned  and  thor- 
oughly cooked  the  soup  is  very  easily  and  quickly  made.  Place 
two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire,  stir  them  until  they  are  brov/n,  then  add  one  cup  of  baked 
beans  and  three  pints  of  boiling  water,  season  with  a  few  stalks 
of  celery  cut  in  inch  pieces,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  quar- 
ter of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Boil  until  the  beans  are  soft, 
then  pass  through  a  colander,  rubbing  the  beans  through  with  a 
potato  masher,  if  you  have  no  "puree  sieve."  Return  the  soup  to 
the  fire  and  allow  it  to  boil  up  once.  Serve  with  half-inch  dice 
of  bread  fried  in  enough  hot  butter  to  brov/n  them.  If  dice  of 
toasted  bread  are  used  they  soften  directly,  whereas  the  fried 
bread  remains  crisp. 


10^  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Boiled  Beesteak  Pudding— Cut  one  pound  and  a  half  of  round 
Rteak  into  inch  pieces,  rejecting  all  gristle  and  skin,  but  using  a 
little  of  the  fat.  Season  with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  pepper.  For  the  crust  take  a  cup  of  beef  suet 
chopped  fine,  a  scant  two  cups  of  flour  with  a  small  half-teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt;  mix  all  together  in  a  bowl,  make  a  hole  in  the  center, 
pour  in  a  half  cup  of  cold  water,  quickly  and  lightly  make  into 
a  dough  with  a  knife,  turn  out  on  a  floured  pastry-board  and  roll 
into  a  crust  a  half-inch  thick.  Grease  a  quart  bowl,  lay  in  the 
crust,  pressing  it  gently  all  around;  into  this  put  the  meat,  and 
when  the  bov/1  is  full  pour  in  a  half  cup  of  cold  water.  Gather 
up  the  overlapping  paste  and  pinch  it  together  to  form  a  cover. 
Place  a  floured  cloth  over  the  pudding,  pass  a  string  twice  around 
the  flaring  part  of  the  bowl  and  tie  securely;  then  bring  the  four 
ends  of  the  cloth  over  the  top  and  tie  in  a  knot,  so  that  the  pud- 
aing  may  be  lifted  as  though  it  were  a  basket  or  bundle.  Place 
in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  boil  steadily  for  three  hours. 

Potato  Souffle — Boil  four  good-sized  potatoes  and  rub  them 
through  a  sieve.  Take  one  cupful  of  milk  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter.  Let  them  come  to  a  boil.  Add  the  potatoes,  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper  and 
beat  to  a  cream.  Then  add,  one  at  a  time,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
beating  steadily.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
add  them  to  the  mixture,  stirring  lightly,  and  pour  into  a  well- 
buttered  dish.     Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Charles  L.  West. 

No.  1151  Jackson  Boulevard,  Chicago. 


TUESDAY.  MARCH  THE  NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Prunes. 

Granose   flakes.  Oyster   omelet. 

Buttered  toast.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Barbecued  ham.  Queen  potato  puff. 

French  Rolls.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Brown  farina  soup. 

Veal  olives  with  oysters. 

Stev/ed  tomatoes.  Steamed  potatoes. 

Carrot  salad. 

Apple   meringue   pudding. 

Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  109 

Oyster  Omelet — Chop  twelve  oysters  very  fine.  Beat  the  yolks 
and  v/hites  of  six  eggs  separately,  the  white  until  it  stands  in  a 
heap.  Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and 
heat  while  you  are  mixing  the  omelet.  Stir  a  cup  of  milk  into  a 
deep  dish  with  the  yolks  and  season  with  a  large  half-teaspoonful 
of  salt,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley. 
Next  put  in  the  chopped  oysters,  beating  vigorously,  as  you  add 
them  gradually.  ¥/hen  they  are  thoroughly  mixed,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  finally  whip  in  the  whites  lightly,  and 
put  the  mixture  in  the  pan.  Do  not  stir  it,  but  when  it  begins  to 
set,  slip  a  broad-bladed  knife  around  the  sides  and  under  the 
omelet,  that  the  butter  may  reach  everj'-  part.  As  soon  as  the 
center  is  fairly  "set"  turn  upside-down  into  a  hot  dish. 

Barbecued  Ham — Lay  slices  of  underdone  ham  in  a  frying- 
pan,  pepper  each  slice  and  lay  upon  it  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  made  mustard.  Pour  about  them  some  vinegar,  allowing  half 
a  teaspoonful  to  each  slice.  Fry  quickly  and  turn  often.  When 
done  to  a  fine  brown  transfer  to  a  hot  dish.  Add  to  the  gravy  in 
the  pan  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  teaspoonful  of  white 
sugar. 

Queen  Potato  Puffs — Sift  together  five  dessertspoonfuls  flour, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
Grate  into  this  three  large  cold  boiled  potatoes;  add  half  a  cup 
of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  two  v/ell- 
beaten  eggs.  Place  over  the  nre  a  spider  containing  melted  lard; 
when  smoking  hot,  drop  the  mixture  into  it  by  the  dessertspoon- 
ful and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Drain  the  puffs  on  brown  paper 
'and  serve  very  hot. 

Veal  Olives  with  Oysters — Cut  large,  smooth  slices  from  a 
fillet  of  veal,  spread  each  neatly  with  a  force-meat  made  of 
half  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  a  quarter  cup  of  chopped  pork, 
seasoned  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  quarter  saltspoonful  of 
pepper,  moistened  with  a  little  hot  water  or  milk.  Over  the 
force-meat  spread  some  chopped  oysters  (about  three  to  each 
good-sized  olive).  Roll  them  up  carefully  and  closely  and  bind 
with  pack-thread.  Lay  them  in  a  dripping-pan,  dash  a  teacup- 
ful  of  boiling  water  over  them  and  roast,  basting  at  least  twice 
with  melted  butter.  When  they  are  brown,  remove  to  a  hot  dish 
and  cover  while  you  add  a  little  oyster-liquor,  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
a  dash  of  pepper  to  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan.  Let  this  sim- 
mer for  three  or  four  minutes,  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
browned  fiour  and  boil  up  once;  cut  the  pack-thread,  pour  the 
gravy  over  them  and  serve. 

Carrot  Salad — Boil  three  carrots  in  plenty  of  water;  when  half 
done,  remove  and  throw  out  water  and  finish  cooking  in  fresh 
boiling  T\^ater.  When  done,  take  out,  cool,  and  cut  in  half-inch 
dice.  Make  a  dressing  of  half  a  small  teacup  of  vinegar,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg,  a  salt- 
spoonful of  salt  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Line  a  dish 
with  lettuce  leaves,  add  two-thirds  of  the  dressing,  then  the 
carrot  dice,  then  the  remainder  of  the  dressing. 


no  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

Apple  Meringue  Pudding — One  pint  stewed  apples,  three  eggs, 
half  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  of  nutmeg  and 
cinnamon  mixed.  Sweeten  and  spice  and  while  the  apple  is  still 
very  hot,  stir  in  the  butter  and — a  little  at  a  time — the  yolks. 
Beat  all  lightly,  pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  ten  minutes. 
Cover,  without  drawing  from  the  oven,  with  meringue  made 
from  the  beaten  whites,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  a  few 
drops  of  bitter  almond  seasoning.  Spread  smoothly  and  brown 
very  slightly.  Mrs.  E.  Joseph. 

No.  896  E.  51st  St.,  Chicago. 


WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  THE  TENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Oatmeal  with  cream. 

Mutton  chops.  Graham  gems. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Bouillon  with  crackers. 

White  bread  and  butter.  Fruit  salad. 

Cake.  Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Baked  whitefish,  drawn  butter  sauce. 

Baked  potatoes. 
Scalloped  tomatoes.  Bread. 

Chocolate  pudding. 
Tea  or  coffee. 


Fruit  Salad — Two  oranges,  four  bananas  sliced  fine,  one-half 
cup  sugar.  Dissolve  one-half  box  of  gelatine  according  to  direc- 
tions on  box;  pour  over  fruit;  set  away  to  harden.  Cut  in  squares; 
serve  with  a  little  whipped  cream  on  each  square.  (Any  kind  of 
fruit  can  be  used.) 

Scalloped  Tomatoes — Turn  off  the  juice  from  a  pint  can  of 
tomatoes  (juice  saved  to  use  in  soup).  Put  layer  of  bread  crumbs 
in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  to- 
matoes, seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  butter;  continue 
till  dish  is  full;  finish  with  bread  crumbs.     Bake. 

Mrs.  Alice  Braddock. 

No.  7444  Wright  Street,  Auburn  Park,  Chicago, 


THE   CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  Ill 

THURSDAY,  MARCH  THE  ELEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

California  breakfast  food,  with  cream. 

Broiled  ham.  Brown  potatoes. 

Toast.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Oyster  rarebit.  Bread  and  butter. 

Canned  apricots.  Macaroon  cakes. 

Vienna  chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Vegetable  soup. 

Roast  pork,  apple  sauce. 

Baked  potatoes.  Lima  beans. 

Bavarian  cream.  Coffee. 


Oyster  Rarebit — Clean  and  remove  the  hard  muscle  from  one- 
half  pint  of  oysters,  parboil  them  in  their  own  liquor  until  their 
edges  curl,  then  remove  to  a  hot  bowl.  Put  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  one-half  pound  of  cheese  (broken  in  small  bits),  one 
saltspoonful  each  of  salt  and  mustard  and  a  few  grains  of 
cayenne  into  a  dish;  while  the  butter  is  melting  beat  two  eggs 
slightly  and  add  to  them  the  oyster  liquor,  mix  this  gradually 
into  the  melted  cheese,  add  the  oysters  and  turn  at  once  over 
hot  toast. 

Macaroon  Cakes — One  pint  peanut  kernels  rolled  fine,  one- 
half  pound  sugar,  three  eggs,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  eight  table- 
spoonfuls  flour.  Can  drop  on  greased  tins  or  roll  out  and  cut  in 
round  shape  and  bake. 

Vienna  Chocolate — Three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
chocolate  mixed  with  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  smooth  paste. 
Pour  this  into  a  double  boiler  and  add  one  pint  of  new  milk  and 
one  pint  of  cream  which  has  reached  a  boiling  point,  with  suf- 
ficient sugar  to  sweeten.  Let  it  cook  five  minutes,  add  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  serve. 

Bavarian  Cream — Soak  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  cold  water 
half  an  hour.  Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  add  the  gelatine,  half-cup  sugar 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Pour  in  a  pan  and  cool  until  it 
thickens;  then  add  a  pint  of  cream  which  has  been  whipped  stiff. 
Pour  in  a  mold  which  has  been  first  dipped  in  cold  water.  Serve 
cold  with  cream.  Mrs.  J.  A.  Frost. 

Eaton  Rapids,  Mich, 


112  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

FRIDAY,  MARCH   THE   TWELFTH. 


LENTEN  MENU. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal  and  cream,  with  sliced  bananas  and  sugar. 

Egg  omelet.  Rice  cakes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Scalloped  herring. 

Hot  graham  bread  and  butter 

Junket  with  cream. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup  with  croutons. 

Baked  pike.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Lettuce  salad. 

Snow  pudding.  Harlequin  cake. 

Salted  peanuts. 

Cafe  noir. 


Rice  Cakes — Two  cups  boiled  rice  left  from  previous  meal, 
mashed  with  one  cup  of  milk  (or  cup  sour  milk,  with  one  level 
teaspoon  soda  added,  omitting  baking  powder),  one  cup  flour, 
sifted  with  one  large  teaspoon  baking  powder,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
two  teaspoons  sugar,  one  egg.  Drop  from  spoon  on  hot,  well- 
greased  spider;  fry  four  or  five  cakes  at  a  time;  allow  sufficient 
time  to  fry  thoroughly  well  done.  Serve  with  maple  sirup  or 
sugar  and  butter. 

Graham  Bread — Three  cups  sifted  graham  flour;  two  cups 
white  flour  sifted;  one  tablespoon  brown  sugar;  generous  half 
cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  with  quarter  teaspoonful  soda  well 
mixed  in,  two  cups  lukewarm  water,  in  part  of  which  dissolve 
1-cent  yeast  cake.  Beat  all  ingredients  thoroughly,  and  pour  into 
two  well-greased  bread  pans.  Set  to  rise  in  warm  place  for  about 
three  hours  until  very  light.     Bake  one  hour. 

Scalloped  Herring — Soak  four  or  five  Norway  salt  herrings 
over  night.  Divide  down  back;  remove  all  skin  and  bones;  cut 
into  inch  squares.  Have  ready  dozen  good-sized  potatoes,  cold- 
boiled;  alternate  layers  of  sliced  potatoes  and  fish,  adding  bits 
of  butter  and  good  sprinkling  of  pepper  to  each  generous  layer 
of  fish,  beginning  and  ending  with  potatoes.  Cover  with  a  cus- 
tard made  of  three  cups  milk  and  three  beaten  eggs.  Lastly  add- 
ing a  half  cupful  of  fine  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  one  teaspoonful 
of  drawn  butter.  Bake  about  forty  minutes.  Serve  with  folded 
napkin  around  dish.     A  wliolesome  and  appetizing  dish. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  113 

Junket — To  one  quart  of  milk  slightly  warmed,  placed  in  a 
dish  for  the  table,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  liquid  rennet,  stirring 
only  enough  to  mix  it  thoroughly.  To  be  eaten  very  cold  with 
sugar  and  cream,  flavored  with  nutmeg. 

Croutons — Butter  four  thick  slices  of  bread  on  both  sides. 
Cut  into  cubes  and  brown  crisp  in  the  oven  in  a  dripping  pan, 
shaking  about  occasionally. 

Baked  Pike — Carefully  prepare  a  three  or  four  pound  pike, 
whitefish  or  salmon  trout.  Score  the  upper  side  diagonally  four 
or  five  times;  lay  a  slice  of  pork  in  each  incision.  Dredge  with 
flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Place  in  baking  pan  with  a  little  hot  water. 
Bake  about  thirty-five  minutes.     Leave  in  its  own  sauce. 

Harlequin  Cake — One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk  or  water,  three  cupfuls  of  flour, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  When  mixed 
divide  into  two  parts.  Color  one  part  with  one  and  one-half 
squares  unsweetened  chocolate,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  dis- 
solved in  a  little  hot  water.  Bake  in  four  pans;  alternate  layers; 
when  done  spread  between  each  layer  lemon  jelly — viz.,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  juice  and  rind  of  ona  lemon,  one  cupful  of  hot  water, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  stirred  with  one  egg  well  beaten. 
Mix  and  cook  till  thick  like  cream.  Use  cold.  This  cake  can  be 
used  for  two  or  three  desserts.  Long  Branch  crackers  are  also 
good  with  the  snow  pudding  if  the  cake  is  omitted. 

Jane  Garland  Gleerup. 

No.  1187  Rokeby  Street,  Chicago. 


SATURDAY,  MARCH  THE  THIRTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal  with  sliced  bananas. 

Fried  salmon  trout  cutlets,  cream  sauce. 

Popovers.  Baked  potatoes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Macedoine  salad.  Cheese  wafers. 

Spiced   apples.  Coffee   cake. 

Milk  or  cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Puree  of  split  peas. 

Lamb  chops  with  mushrooms. 

Boiled  rice.  Buttered  parsnips. 

Strawberry  shortcakes. 

Coffee. 


114  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOIt. 

Fried  Salmon  Trout  Cutlets — Cut  six  cutlets  from  larg©  sal- 
mon trout,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
fry  in  hot  fat.    Dish  on  hot  platter  and  cover  with  cream  sauce. 

Macedoine  Salad — One  cupful  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  sliced, 
half  a  cup  of  celery  stalks  cut  in  pieces,  a  few  cold  string  beans 
(if  you  have  them),  one  or  two  slices  of  onion  and  a  little  raw 
cabbage  cut  fine.  Line  the  salad  bowl  with  lettuce  leaves,  heap 
vegetable  mixture  on  these  and  cover  with  French  dressing.  This 
is  a  good  way  to  use  up  any  cold  vegetable,  as  nearly  any  kind 
may  be  added  to  the  salad. 

Spiced  Apples — Pare  and  cut  in  quarters  six  small  tart  apples 
and  put  in  saucepan  with  one  cup  white  sugar  and  three  cloves. 
Boil  gently  till  fruit  is  transparent.  Serve  cold.  This  is  im- 
proved by  the  addition  of  one  stick  of  cinnamon  and  a  blade  of 
mace. 

Puree  of  Split  Peas — One  cup  split  peas  soaked  over  night 
in  cold  water.  Put  on  to  boil  with  half  a  spoon  of  soda,  let  boil 
ten  minutes,  drain,  blanch  and  drain  again.  Put  back  on  stove 
with  one  quart  of  water  and  a  little  ham  or  mutton.  Boil  two 
hours,  press  through  colander,  return  to  fire,  add  a  tablespoon 
butter  and  tablespoon  flour  rubbed  together,  boil  two  or  three 
minutes,  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  little  pepper  and  serve. 

Lamb  Chops  with  Mushrooms — Fry  six  thick  loin  chops  for 
five  minutes  in  hot  fat,  turning  to  brown  both  sides,  then  add 
one  cup  water  or  stock,  the  juice  from  one  can  of  mushrooms 
and  the  mushrooms  sliced.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  add  about  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  curry  and  pour  in  deep  platter  inside  a  wall 
of  boiled  rice. 

Strawberry  Shortcakes — Make  rich  sponge  cake  and  bake 
in  shallow  pan.  When  cold  cut  out  five  large  round  pieces,  split 
open,  spread  with  canned  strawberries;  put  whole  berries  on 
the  top  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  colored  with  strawberry 
juice.  Mrs.  B.  A.  Tyler. 

No.  1582  Maple  Avenue,  Evanston,  111. 


SUNDAY,  MARCH  THE  FOURTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  oranges. 

Codfish  with  egg  dressing. 

Cream   fritters.  Honey. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cheese  omelet. 

English  lunch  bread. 

Citron  preserves.  Tea. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  115 

DINNER. 

White  fricassee  of  chicken. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Cold  slaw. 

Lemon  custard  pie. 

Coffee. 


A  YELLOW  AND  WHITE   MENU. 


Cream  Fritters — Stir  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  one  cup  of  thin 
cream,  two  full  cups  of  flour  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt 
together  and  beat  hard  for  three  minutes.  Fry  in  plenty  of  hot 
lard,  using  a  tablespoonful  of  batter  for  each  fritter. 

Cheese  Omelet — Beat  thoroughly  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  add 
five  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  one  small  half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Then  beat  the  whites  very  stiff 
and  gently  stir  them  into  the  yolks.  Butter  a  large  spider  and 
heat  it,  then  pour  the  mixture  in,  cover  tightly  and  cook  slowly 
until  brown  on  the  bottom;  set  in  the  oven  a  minute  to  dry  the 
top,  then  sprinkle  one-half  cup  of  fresh  cheese  on  it.  Fold  to- 
gether and  serve  at  once. 

English  Lunch  Bread — Take  one  quart  of  warm  milk,  one 
tablespoonful  lard,  two  beaten  eggs,  one-half  cake  compressed 
yeast,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt  and  mix  in  flour  enough  to  make 
a  dough.  Knead  well  and  let  rise  over  night.  The  next  morning 
handle  only  sufiiciently  to  form  into  loaves  and  bake  in  shallow 
bread  pans. 

White  Fricassee  of  Chicken — Cut  up  pair  of  small  chickens, 
put  on  to  stew  with  half  pound  salt  pork  cut  in  strips  and  enough 
cold  water  to  cover  well  and  simmer  until  tender,  allowing  all 
the  water  to  boil  away.  Put  one  large  tablespoonful  butter  in 
frying-pan  and  when  melted  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  mix 
well  but  do  not  brown;  add  one  pint  milk  and  stir  until  it  boils; 
add  one-half  teaspoonful  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  pepper 
and  pour  it  over  the  chicken,  previously  dished.  Sprinkle  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 

Lemon  Custard  Pie — Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one- 
half  pound  of  powdered  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  unbeaten 
whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat  the  whole  until  very  light.  Add  the 
juice  and  rind  of  three  lemons  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter; 
now  stand  the  bowl  in  a  basin  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire  and 
stir  until  the  mixture  thickens;  set  away  to  cool.  Line  a  pie-dish 
with  good  paste  and  bake,  then  pour  in  the  lemon  mixture.  Beat 
the  remaining  white  of  egg  with  three  tablespoonfuls  powdered 
sugar,  put  this  meringue  over  the  top  of  the  pie  and  set  in  the 
oven  until  a  golden  brown.  Mrs.  E.  C.  Janiison, 

296  East  60th  Street,  Chicago. 


116  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

MONDAY,  MARCH  THE  FIFTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Wheatena  and  cream. 

Broiled  mackerel. 

Minced  potatoes  and  corn. 

Breakfast  biscuit. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 
Baked  hash.  Bread  and  butter. 

Hot  tea  cakes. 
Raspberry  jam.  Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Salmon  soup. 

Veal  potpie. 

Princess  potatoes.  Cream  cabbage. 

Parsnip  balls. 

Peach  cottage  pudding.  Hard  sauce. 

Coffee. 


Broiled  Salt  Mackerel — Freshen  by  soaking  the  fish  over 
night,  taking  care  that  the  skin  lies  uppermost;  in  the  morning 
dry  without  breaking;  lay  it  between  the  bars  of  a  buttered  fisli 
gridiron  and  broil  to  a  light  brown;  lay 'upon  a  hot  dish;  meit 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  lemon  juice  or 
vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  hot  water,  a  pinch  black  pepper,  a  very 
small  cucumber  pickle  chopped  fine  and  pour  over  the  mackerel. 

Minced  Potatoes  and  Corn  (left  overs) — Chop  fine  cold  boiled 
potatoes  and  mix  with  them  cooked  canned  corn  in  proportion 
of  one  cup  potato  to  a  half  cup  corn;  if  left  over  they  are  probably 
seasoned  sufficiently;  put  three  large  tablespoonfuls  good  drip- 
ping into  a  frying-pan,  and  when  hot  stir  in  potatoes  and  corn, 
tossing  them  round  with  a  fork  until  thoroughly  heated;  taste 
and  add  if  necessary  more  pepper  and  salt;  serve  in  a  covered 
dish. 

Breakfast  Biscuit — Sift  together  one  scant  quart  flour,  two 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  a  half  teaspoonful  salt;  mix 
a  half  teacup  melted  butter  in  rather  less  than  a  quart  of  sweet 
milk;  add  to  the  flour,  beating  well,  until  the  batter  is  stiff 
enough  to  drop  from  a  spoon  into  a  buttered  tin,  like  drop  cakes; 
the  oven  should  be  very  hot  or  the  biscuits  will  not  be  light  and 
puffy. 

Baked  Hash — Chop  fine  any  sort  of  cold  meat — corned  beef 
is  excellent.  To  each  pint  of  meat  add  one  pint  and  a  half  of  cold 
boiled  potatoes  chopped  fine,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one 
cupful  of  gravy  or  stock;   if  no  stock  is  to  be  had  use  a  little 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  117 

more  butter  and  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  hot  water.  If  the  meat 
and  potatoes  have  been  seasoned  before,  they  will  need  but  little; 
if  not,  a  good  rule  is  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter- 
teaspoonfui  of  pepper.  Put  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the 
skillet,  and  when  it  melts  turn  in  the  mixture,  spreading  smoothly. 
Cover  the  pan  and  set  back  where  it  will  not  burn.  Let  it  brown 
slowly — it  will  take  about  half  an  hour.  When  done  fold  to- 
gether like  an  omelet  and  lay  on  a  hot  dish.  Triangles  of  buttered 
toast  are  nice  with  this  hash. 

Hot  Tea  Cakes — Beat  together  one-half  pint  sugar  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  butter;  beat  two  eggs  very  light,  add  them  to 
butter  and  sugar;  a  pinch  of  salt,  one-third  saltspoonful  of  nut- 
meg and  one-half  pint  of  milk;  now  beat  in  one  scant  pint  of 
flour,  sifted  with  three  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  But- 
ter two  shallow  cake-tins  and  spread  about  two-thirds  full.  Bake 
twenty  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  To  be  eaten  hot,  with 
butter  and  raspberry  jam. 

Salmon  Soup — Take  about  half  a  can  salmon,  remove  bones 
and  skin  and  put  it  on  to  cook,  together  with  a  sliced  onion  and  a 
quart  of  seasoned  stock;  or,  failing  stock,  water.  Let  it  boil  slowly 
for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  then  rub  through  a  soup  strainer. 
Have  a  quart  of  milk  heated  to  boiling;  thicken  this  with  a  large 
tablespoonful  butter  and  a  scant  tablespoonful  flour;  add  this  to 
the  strained  salmon;  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  quarter- 
teaspoonful  of  pepper;  let  it  heat,  after  adding  the  salmon,  but 
not  long  or  it  may  loose  its  smooth,  creamy  appearance.  Many 
persons  like  a  stalk  of  celery  boiled  with  the  salmon. 

The  salmon  left  after  taking  out  half  a  can  for  soup  can  be 
used  delightfully.  Put  in  a  china  dish  until  needed,  then  remove 
bones  and  skin,  chop  fine,  add  fine  mashed  potato — twice  as 
much  potato  as  salmon — a  large  tablespoonful  butter,  a  half-cup 
of  cream,  a  well-beaten  egg  or  two;  season  to  taste  and  bake  like 
a  soufile  in  a  buttered  pan. 

Veal  Potpie — Put  a  small  plate  into  the  pot  to  keep  the  veal 
from  burning.  Cut  into  small  pieces  two  pounds  of  veal,  and  put 
into  the  pot  with  two  quarts  of  water — hot  or  cold.  Keep  boiling 
gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  When  it  begins  to  grow  tender 
put  in  a  full  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  bit  of  red  pepper  pod,  or  two 
or  three  pepper  corns.  If  onion  or  potato  is  liked  cut  in  pieces 
and  add  when  the  stew  is  half  done.  Add  a  half  cup  of  cream  or 
rich  milk  before  removing  from  the  fire,  a  heaping  tablespoonful 
butter  and  a  tablespoonful  flour.  Make  a  quart  of  flour  into  bak- 
ing-powder biscuits,  cut  in  squares  and  bake  quickly.  When  the 
veal  is  ready  and  the  biscuits  are  baked  split  the  biscuits,  put  them 
on  a  hot  platter,  see  that  the  gravy  is  thickened  and  seasoned, 
and  pour  over  the  biscuits,  disposing  the  veal  over  them  so  that 
they  can  be  served  together.  This  is  much  more  healthful  than 
the  boiled  dough. 

Princess  Potatoes — Slice  cold  mashed  potatoes  into  strips  two 
inches  long,  one  inch  wide,  one-half  inch  thick.  Have  in  one 
saucer  a  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  in  another  a  beaten  egg. 


118  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Dip  the  strips  first  in  the  butter,  then  in  the  egg.  With  a  knife 
lay  them  on  a  buttered  tin,  and  cook  in  a  hot  oven  for  twelve 
minutes. 

Cream  Cabbage — Cut  the  cabbage  into  quarters,  or  small  bits 
as  preferred,  cook  in  salted  water  until  tender,  draining  off  the 
first  water.  When  tender  pour  in  a  cup  milk  or  cream,  add  a 
scant  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little 
pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  flour  to  thicken. 

Parsnip  Balls — Mash  one  pint  of  boiled  parsnips.  Add  two 
tablespoonfuls  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  a  little  pepper, 
two  tablespoonfuls  cream;  mix  together  and  stir  on  the  fire  until 
the  mixture  bubbles.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  before  it  cools 
add  one  well-beaten  egg.  When  cold  make  into  bails  about  half 
the  size  of  an  egg.  Dip  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  bread  crumbs. 
Use  the  frying  basket  for  these  balls  and  fry  a  pale  brown  in  boil- 
ing lard. 

Peach  Cottage  Pudding — Stir  to  a  cream  one-half  cup  butter, 
one  cup  sugar;  add  a  cup  rich  milk,  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  a 
pint  of  flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Into  this  batter  stir  canned  peaches  sliced  very 
thin.  One's  own  taste  must  decide  how  many  peaches.  Butter 
a  long,  oval  mold;  bake  the  cake  in  this  thirty  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

Hard  Sauce — Beat  one  cup  sugar  and  one-half  cup  butter  to  a 
white  cream;  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  a  few  minutes 
longer.  A  tablespoonful  fruit  juice  or  a  teaspoonful  vanilla 
or  lemon  will  flavor  it.  Extract  of  nutmeg  is  nice  or  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  lemon  juice.  Miss  Anne  Everett  George. 

No.  1841  Pendleton  Avenue,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 


TUESDAY,  MARCH  THE  SIXTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Boiled  sweet  apples. 

Graham  mush  with  dates. 

Rumbled  eggs.  Lyonnaise  potatoes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Beef  loaf  with  tomato.  Honey  muffins. 

Lady-fingers.  Spiced  currants. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Raw  oysters  with  lemon  points. 

Braised  liver.  Sweet  baked  potatoes. 

Lettuce  salad.  Cheese  straws. 

Cocoanut  pie. 

Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  lid 

Rumbled  Eggs— Beat  up  three  eggs  with  two  ounces  of  fresh 
butter;  add  a  teaspoon  of  new  milk.  Put  all  in  a  saucepan  and 
stir  over  the  fire  for  about  five  minutes,  or  until  it  rises  up,  when 
it  should  be  immediately  dished  on  buttered  toast.  Add  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  dash  of  pepper. 

Honey  Muffins — Sift  together  one  and  one-half  pints  of  flour, 
two  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder  and  a  small  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Work  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  beat  and  add  three 
eggs,  one  teacupful  of  honey  and  half  a  pint  of  milk.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven. 

Beef  Loaf  with  Tomato — One  pound  of  rare  beef  chopped  fine, 
three  large  crackers  rolled  and  sifted;  add  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  with  one  well- 
beaten  egg.  Work  all  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Press  it  into  a 
bowl  and  turn  out  into  a  buttered  tin.  Rub  a  little  butter  over 
it  and  pour  on  a  large  cup  of  canned  tomato.  Bake  three-quarters 
of  an  hour,  basting  frequently  with  the  tomato.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  U.  S.  Moore. 

No.  77  Francis  Avenue,  Pittsfield,  Mass. 


WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  THE  SEVENTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Hominy  grits. 

Broiled  sheep's  kidneys.  Toasted  potatoes. 

Toasted  English  muffins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Whitpot. 

Cold  sliced  corn  beef  with  catsup. 

Bread  and  butter.  Stewed  prunes. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Clam  soup. 

Boiled  salmon  steak. 

HoUandaise  potatoes.  Macaroni  bechamel. 

Dainty  little  puddings,  cream  sauce. 

Somatose  cocoa. 


Broiled  Sheep's  Kidneys — Sheep's  kidneys  are  best  for  broil- 
ing. Procure  them,  if  you  can,  with  the  suet  still  upon  them. 
Slice  them  through  the  fat,  then  pare  off  enough  of  it  just  to 
leave  a  border  around  each  slice.  Pepper  and  salt  them  and 
broil  them  over  clear  coals.  They  should  be  fairly  done  through 
and  no  more,  and  should  be  turned  over  but  once  that  the  gravy 


120       THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

may  collect  on  top.  Dish  them  on  bread,  thin  sliced,  and  drop  a 
bit  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each  slice. 

Toasted  Potatoes — Pare  the  largest  potatoes  and  cut  them  in 
slices  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  Touch  them  with  the  butter 
brush  and  broil  them  over  clear  coals  at  a  good  height  above  the 
fire.  Dip  in  butter  and  sprinkle  with  fine  salt  when  done.  Serve 
with  the  kidneys  in  a  separate  dish  or  under  them  in  place  of 
the  bread. 

English  Muffins — These  may  be  bought  at  the  baker's.  Split 
them  and  toast  a  golden  brown;  butter  well,  pile  one  upon  an- 
other and  send  to  the  table  very  hot. 

Whitpot — Two  quarts  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  one-half  pint 
of  cornmeal,  one-half  pint  of  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  of  cin- 
namon and  cloves,  mixed.  Have  the  milk  boiling,  then  put  ail 
the  other  ingredients  together,  mix  well  and  stir  into  the  milk 
and  cook  slowly  until  it  separates.  Serve  in  soup  bowls  or  plates. 
This  dish  is  a  favorite  one  with  the  children  and  has  been  handed 
down  from  old  colonial  times. 

Boiled  Salmon  Steak — Boil  a  pint  of  broth  or  water  with  a 
small  piece  of  celery  and  half  a  handful  of  parsley,  half  salt- 
spoon  of  pepper  and  half  teaspoon  of  salt  to  season,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar.  Cut  the  steaks  in  suitable  pieces  and  put  the 
fragments  and  bones  in  the  boiling  liquor.  Place  the  salmon  in  a 
bright  saucepan,  strain  the  seasoned  broth  over  "it  and  cook  by 
brisk  boiling  with  a  lid  on  top,  eight  or  ten  minutes.  Serve  in  a 
deep  dish  or  tureen  with  the  liquor  instead  of  a  sauce.  To  be 
eaten  with  bread  and  butter.  I'he  merit  of  this  dish  is  in  the  full 
preservation  of  the  flavor  and  richness  of  the  fish. 

Hollandaise  Potatoes — The  potatoes  should  be  cut  all  into 
one  neat  shape  before  cooking.  This  can  be  done  with  an  apple 
corer  if  one  has  no  potato  scoop.  The  rest  of  the  potato  can  be 
used  at  another  meal.  Set  the  potatoes  on  the  range  in  cold  water 
with  a  little  salt  in  it.  Boil  very  gently  about  twenty  minutes, 
taking  care  that  they  do  not  break  and  boil  away,  then  pour  off 
the  water  and  let  them  cool  and  dry  a  little.  When  to  be  served 
pour  over  them  a  cupful  of  Hollandaise  sauce  and  sprinkle  a  little 
chopped  parsley  over  the  top. 

Hollandaise  Sauce — This  should  be  a  golden  yellow,  shining 
and  smooth  and  just  thick  enough  to  be  taken  up  on  the  point  of 
a  knife.  Boil  one-half  cupful  of  broth,  milk  or  water  with  a 
dozen  pepper  corns,  a  scrap  of  broken  nutmeg  and  a  level  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  V/hen  flavored  strain  it  into  another  saucepan. 
Put  in  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  butter  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
and  beat  it  with  a  fork  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens  like  cream. 
Then  take  it  off  and  beat  in  the  rest  of  the  cupful  of  butter  in 
little  bits,  still  beating  until  all  is  melted.  Then  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  or  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  instead. 

Macaroni  Bechamel — Five  ounces  macaroni,  two  ounces 
cheese,  two  ounces  butter,  one  and  one-half  pints  milk  or  water, 
two  eggs.  Boil  the  macaroni  by  itself  first,  throwing  it  into  water 
that  is  already  boiling  and  salted.     Cook  only  twenty  minutes 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  121 

and  drain  dry.  Put  it  in  a  baking  dish.  Chop  the  cheese,  not  very- 
fine,  and  mix  it  with  the  macaroni  and  butter.  Beat  the  two 
eggs  and  pint  of  water  or  milk  together,  pour  them  over  the 
macaroni  and  set  it  in  the  oven  to  bake.  While  it  is  getting  hot 
boil  the  remaining  half-pint  of  water  or  milk  and  thicken  it  with 
a  rounded  tabiespoonful  of  flour;  add  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  and  when  the  macaroni  in  the  oven  is  set  so 
that  the  two  cannot  mix  pour  this  white-cream  sauce  on  the  top 
of  it,  shut  up  the  oven  and  let  it  bake  a  yellow-brown.  This  makes 
a  very  attractive  dish,  the  yellow  cheese  and  custard  boiling  up  in 
spots  among  the  v/hite  sauce  and  parsley. 

Dainty  Little  Puddings — Grate  two  large  cupfuls  of  stale  bread 
and  soften  it  with  a  cupful  of  water.  Grate  the  rind  and  squeeze 
the  juice  from  one  orange.  Cut  tvv'o  ounces  of  citron  into  small 
bits  and  mix  with  the  bread,  together  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
and  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  the  whole.  Butter  five  or  six  small 
cups.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  just  before 
putting  the  puddings  in  the  oven  mix  them  v/ith  the  bread  and 
fruit.  Distribute  the  mixture  evenly  in  the  cups  and  bake  slovfly 
about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  they  are  brown.     Serve  hot. 

Cream  Sauce — Boil  one  cupful  of  milk  or  thin  cream  with  a 
broken  nutmeg  or  a  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  in  it.  Mix  together 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  large  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch dry:  stir  this  into  the  boiling  milk  and  remove  from  the 
range  when  it  thickens.  Beat  in  a  large  teaspoonful  of  butter 
and  strain.  Harriet  Mann. 

No.  1421  Central  Street,  Bvanston,  111. 


THURSDAY,  MARCH  THE  EIGHTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 

Wheat  granules  and  cream. 

Beauregard  eggs.  Whole-wheat  gems. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Curry  of  oysters,  rice  border. 

Milk  biscuit.  Stuffed  prunes. 

Coffee. 


DINNER. 

Mock  bisque  soup. 

Broiled  steak  with  sauce  Bernaise. 

Baked  potatoes.  Spinach.  Lettuce  salad. 

Orange  charlotte.  Coffee. 


122  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Curry  of  Oysters — Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  one  sliced  onion.  Cook  until  a  golden  color.  Drain  the 
oysters  (one  pint),  boil  and  skim  the  liquor.  Put  one  tablespoon- 
ful flour  and  one  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  a  saltspoonful  salt 
in  the  butter;  mix;  add  the  oyster  liquor,  which  should  measure 
a  half-pint;  if  it  does  not,  add  sufficient  water  to  make  up  the 
quantity.  Stir  until  boiling.  Have  a  very  hot  griddle,  throw  the 
oysters  on  a  few  at  a  time.  When  brown  on  one  side  turn  and 
brown  on  the  other,  ana  then  Ijft  at  once  and  put  them  in  the 
sauce.    Serve  hot  in  a  border  of  plain  boiled  rice. 

Stuffed  Prunes — Wash  one  pound  of  prunes,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  soak  over  night.  Next  morning  drain,  saving  the  water. 
Remove  the  stones  from  the  prunes  without  spoiling  the  shape  of 
the  fruit.  Put  an  almond  in  each  place  from  which  a  stone  was 
taken.  The  almonds  must  be  blanched  and  slightly  roasted.  Add 
to  the  water  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  a  half-cup  of  sugar. 
Bring  to  a  boil  and  skim.  Boil  two  minutes.  Add  prunes;  when 
soft  lift  carefully  and  put  aside  to  cool.  A  tablespoonful  of  soaked 
gelatine  may  be  added  while  the  prunes  are  hot.  This  will  give 
a  creamy,  clear  sauce. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup — Put  one  pint  of  tomatoes  on  to  stew,  with 
one  bay  leaf,  sprig  of  parsley  and  blade  of  mace,  let  them  stew 
fifteen  minutes.  Put  one  quart  of  milk  on  to  boil  in  a  farina 
boiler.  Rub  together  one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour;  add  to  the  milk  when  boiling  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens.  Now  press  the  tomatoes  through  a 
sieve,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
scda,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the  boiling  water.  Serve  immedi- 
ately. 

Sauce  Bernaise — Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  until  creamy; 
add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
olive  oil;  stand  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  stir  until 
the  eggs  thicken;  take  from  the  fire  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar,  a  dash  dt  pepper  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  well  and  stand 
away  to  cool. 

Orange  Charlotte — Cover  one-third  of  a  box  of  gelatine  with 
one-third  of  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  soak  a  half-hour;  add  to  it  a 
third  of  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one  cup  of  orange  juice  and  a  little  of  the  grated  rind;  whip 
to  a  foam  one  pint  of  cream  and  add  it  to  the  above  mixture;  beat 
until  it  thickens  and  then  turn  it  into  a  pudding  mold  lined  with 
sections  of  oranges.  Elizabeth  Howell. 

No.  108  Home  avenue,  Oak  Park,  111. 


FRIDAY,  MARCH  THE  NINETEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Compote  of  oranges. 

Wheatlet,  witli  sugar  and  cream. 

Fish  omelet.  Graham  bread.  Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  123 

I.UNCHEON. 

Rice  cutlets  and  tomato  sauce. 

Baked  apples. 

Oatmeal  biscuits  and  butter.  Coffee. 


DINNER. 

Mock  turtle  soup. 

Cod  a  la  Bechamel. 

Irish  potatoes.  Artichokes,  with  sauce. 

Caramel  pudding.  Tea. 


Fish  Omelet — Beat  up  four  eggs  with  a  quantity  equal  in 
bulk  to  one  egg  of  the  remnants  of  any  cold  fish  shredded  fine,  a 
pinch  of  minced  parsley,  one-fourth  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  one 
saltspoonful  of  salt;  mix  well.  Melt  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  let  it  cook  over  a  clear  fire;  as 
soon  as  it  is  cooked  through  fold  over  on  to  a  hot  dish  and  serve 
quickly. 

Rice  Cutlets — One-fourth  pound  of  rice,  one-half  pound  of 
cold  meat,  one  onion,  one-fourth  pound  of  bread  crumbs;  boil  the 
rice  and  strain  it,  chop  up  the  meat  and  onions  small  and  mix 
with  the  rice;  sprinkle  one  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  one-fourth 
saltspoonful  of  pepper  over  it;  mix  well  together  with  just  a  little 
milk  to  make  a  paste;  let  the  mixture  set  on  a  plate;  cut  into  the 
shape  of  mutton  cutlets;  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs;  fry  a 
golden  brown;  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Oatmeal  Biscuits — Five  ounces  of  flour,  seven  ounces  of  oat- 
meal, three  ounces  of  sugar,  four  ounces  of  lard  or  butter,  one- 
quarter  teaspoon  of  bakin'g  soda,  one  egg;  melt  the  lard  or  butter, 
mix  together  the  flour,  oatmeal,  sugar  and  soda,  then  stir  in  the 
melted  fat,  break  the  egg  with  a  little  water  into  a  teacup,  beat 
slightly  and  stir  in  with  the  other  ingredients  until  it  becomes  a 
paste;  turn  out  on  to  a  board  and  roll  it  out  very  thinly,  cut  into 
rounds  and  bake  on  a  greased  tin  for  twenty  minutes.  These  will 
keep  good  for  several  days  in  a  closed  tin. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup — A  knuckle  of  veal,  two  onions  stuck  with 
six  cloves,  one  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  three  blades  of  mace,  one 
dessertspoonful  of  salt,  twelve  peppercorns,  a  little  lemon  juice, 
three  quarts  of  water;  put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  stone  jar,  and 
stew  for  four  hours;  do  not  open  it  until  cold.  When  wanted  for 
use  skim  off  all  the  fat,  and  strain  carefully,  place  it  on  the  fire, 
cut  up  the  meat  into  inch  and  a  half  squares,  put  into  the  soup, 
add  twenty  very  small  forcemeat  balls,  put  into  a  soup  tureen 
and  serve  very  hot.  It  can  be  flavored  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
anchovy  sauce,  if  liked.  This  is  a  delicious  soup,  and  just  as  good 
made  hot  for  a  second  day. 

Bechamel  Sauce — Put  two  ounces  of  butter  and  one  ounce 
and  a  half  of  flour  into  a  saucepan.  When  well  mixed  add  one 
pint  of  white  stock  and  stir  till  it  boils;  add  one  dessertspoon  of 


124  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

mushroom  catsup,  two  tablespoons  of  cream,  one-fourth  saltspoon 
of  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt;  let  it  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes. 

Cod  a  la  Bechamel — One  pint  of  cold  cod,  flake  carefully, 
season  with  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  half  saltspoon  of  pap- 
rika. Put  the  Bechamel  sauce  into  a  stewpan,  with  two  ounces  of 
butter,  and  stir  over  the  fire;  put  in  the  fish  and  mix  it  well  with 
the  sauce.  Make  a  border  of  fried  bread  round  the  dish,  lay  in  the 
fish,  sprinkle  over  with  bread  crumbs  and  baste  with  butter. 
Brown  in  oven. 

Artichokes,  with  Sauce — Peel  the  artichokes  and  boil  them 
in  salted  water  for  fifteen  minutes;  drain  them  and  serve  with  the 
following  sauce:  Mix  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  butter  with  one 
taljlespoon  of  flour,  add  one-half  pint  of  water,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  just  a  dash  of  pepper;  stir  over  the  fire  until 
it  thickens,  then  take  the  pan  off  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  yoiks  of 
two  eggs,  beaten  up  with  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and 
strained. 

Artichokes  make  a  delicious  dish  cooked  this  way  and  may 
be  eaten  with  meat  or  fish,  or  served  as  a  separate  course  with 
toast.  Jerusalem  artichokes  come  into  the  market  in  July;  they 
may  be  packed  in  sand  for  winter  use. 

Caramel  Pudding — For  the  caramel,  two  ounces  of  white 
sugar,  one-half  gill  of  cold  water;  put  two  ounces  of  white  sugar 
and  one-half  gill  of  cold  water  into  a  stewpan  and  boil  quickly 
until  coffee-color;  stir  well  and  pour  it  quickly  into  a  thoroughly 
dry  plain  mold  and  let  it  coat  the  mold  all  over.  Make  a  custard 
of  four  yolks  and  one  white  of  egg,  one  tablespoon  of  white  sugar 
and  one-half  pint  of  milk,  thus:  Break  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  add 
the  sugar;  boil  the  milk,  and  when  a  little  cool  pour  it  on  to  the 
eggs  and  sugar;  then  strain  it  into  the  mold  you  have  lined  with 
earn m el;  put  a  buttered  paper  over  the  top  and  steam  it  slowly 
for  half  an  hour;  turn  it  out  on  to  a  dish  and  some  of  the  caramel 
will  run  off  and  form  a  sauce  (this  is  a  delicious  pudding). 

Anderson,  Ind.  Mrs.  H.  Ross  Edwards. 


SATURDAY,  MARCH  THE  TWENTIETH 


BREAKFAST. 

Fried  mush  with  maple  syrup. 

Poached  eggs  on  toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Oysters  k  la  Newburg. 
Sacked  potatoes.        Pickles.        Albany  fruit  cake. 

Tea. 


i 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK    BOOK.  125 

DINNER. 

Cream  of  celery  soup. 

Pocket  of  veal  with   Spanish   dressing. 

Baked  potatoes.  Lady  cabbage. 

Syllabub.  Coffee  cake. 

Coffee. 


Oysters  a  la  Newburg — Heat  one  gill  of  cream  in  a  double 
boiler.  Rub  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  two  ounces  of  butter. 
Rub  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  smooth  with  a  little 
cream  and  add  to  hot  cream  with  flour  mixture.  Stir  until  thick 
and  smooth,  then  add  a  shake  of  red  pepper  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Cook  about  three  dozen  oysters  in  their  own 
liquor  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  until  the  edges  are  curled. 
Drain,  and  add  at  once  to  cream  and  serve  immediately. 

Albany  Fruit  Cake — One  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one  heap- 
ing teaspoon  of  soda  in  the  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon;  one  nutmeg  grated.  Two  tea- 
cupfuls  of  dried  apples  soaked  over  night  then  chopped  a  little, 
put  in  stewpan  with  one  cupful  of  molasses  and  let  simmer  un- 
til tender,  about  two  hours.  Fix  the  apples  the  day  before  so 
they  v/ill  be  thoroughly  cool.  One  cupful  of  raisins  stoned  and 
chopped,  one-third  cup'ful  of  Zante  currants  and  a  little  citron. 
Rub  a  little  flour  in  the  fruit  to  keep  it  from  sinking.  Five  cup- 
fuls of  flour.  This  will  make  two  long  loaves  and  should  be 
baked  a  week  before  using. 

Pocket  of  Veal  with  Spanish  Dressing — Get  a  rib  piece  of  veal 
weighing  about  three  pounds  and  have  a  pocket  cut  in  one  side; 
fill  this  with  Spanish  dressing  and  roast  for  two  hours. 

Spanish  Dressing — Remove  the  crust  from  a  one-pound  loaf 
of  bread,  crumb  it  up  and  moisten  with  a  pint  of  canned  to- 
matoes. Then  season  with  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  two  good  dashes  of  cayenne  pepper  and  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  chopped  onion  and  celery. 

Coffee  Cake — One-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  molasses,  one-half  cupful  of  cold 
coffee,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  the 
coffee;  one-quarter  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and  mace,  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.     Bake  in  long  bar  tin. 

Syllabub — One  pint  of  cream,  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  one 
small  cupful  of  powdered  sugar.  Whip  one-half  the  sugar  with 
cream,  the  remainder  with  the  eggs.  Mix  well  and  pour  over 
sliced  oranges  and  bananas  sweetened.        Mrs.  C.  L.  Wilbur. 

No.  610  Sycamore  Street  S.,  Lansing,  Mich. 


12^  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOlC. 

SUNDAY,  MARCH  THE  TWENTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Cracked  wheat  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Creamed  codfish  with  poached  eggs. 

French  fried  potatoes.  Cornmeal  bread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Boullettes  of  liver. 

Bread  and  butter.  Fried  cream. 

Hot  gingerbread. 

Apple  sago  pudding. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Vegetable  soup. 

Brunswick  stew. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Oyster-plant  cakes. 

Floating  islanf' 

Coffee. 


Creamed  Codfish  with  Poached  Eggs^ — Put  one  cupful  of 
picked-up  codfish  in  a  stewpan  with  boiling  water  enough  to 
cover;  cook  twenty  minutes;  drain  off  the  water,  add  one  pint 
of  boiled  milk;  cook  ten  minutes  longer;  thicken  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  rubbed  to- 
gether; add  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and,  if  too  fresh, 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Have  on  a  hot  platter  five  moistened  squares  of 
toast.  Place  the  codfish  on  the  toast,  spreading  smoothly;  put 
some  boiling  water  and  five  muflin  rings  in  a  frying-pan;  break 
five  eggs  on  a  saucer,  one  at  a  time;  drop  each  one  gently  into 
a  ring;  cook  three  minutes;  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer  one 
by  one,  place  them  on  top  of  the  codfish,  remove  the  rings, 
sprinkle  lightly  with  pepper  and  salt.    Serve  at  once. 

Boullettes  of  Liver — Cut  a  half-pound  of  liver  into  thin 
slices;  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  sim- 
mer gently  for  twenty  minutes;  drain  and  chop  fine;  put  a  gill 
of  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  rub  together  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  stir  this  into  the  milk, 
then  add  the  liver;  cook  in  the  double  boiler  for  ten  minutes; 
add  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  quarter-teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  onion 
juice;  then  add  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  to  the  mixture; 
turn  out  to  cool;  when  cold  form  into  balls,  dip  In  egg,  then  in 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat.    Serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

Fried  Cream— Put  on  one  pint  of  milk  to  boil;   add  two  table- 


THE   CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  l2f 

spoons  of  cornstarch,  one-quarter  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  well- 
beaten  egg;  don't  allow  to  boil  after  adding  tbe  egg;  turn  into 
a  square  mold  to  cool.  When  cold  cut  into  slices  half  an  inch 
thick,  roll  in  flour  and  saute  in  butter  in  a  frying-pan. 

Hot  Gingerbread — Separate  two  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  light, 
add  half-cup  of  butter,  half-cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  molasses  with 
half-teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  it,  two  cups  of  flour,  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff;  beat  all  hard  for  five  minutes. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Apple  Sago  Pudding — Cover  four  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  sago 
with  one  pint  of  water;  let  it  soak  over  night;  next  morning  pare 
and  core  six  apples,  place  them  in  a  baking-dish  and  pour  over 
them  the  sago;  cover  the  dish  and  bake  in  the  oven  till  the  ap- 
ples are  tender;  stand  aside  till  cold.  Serve  with  cream  and  pow- 
dered sugar. 

Oyster-Plant  Cakes — Wash  and  scrape  one  dozen  roots  of 
oyster  plant,  throw  each  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  scraped  or  it 
will  turn  black;  then  slice  them,  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  boil  till  tender;  drain  off  the  water,  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  mash  through  a  colander,  form  into  cakes 
and  fry  in  hot  dripping  till  brown  on  both  sides.  • 

Floating  Island — For  the  custard  put  one  quart  of  milk  in 
the  double  boiler,  add  half  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar;  Separate 
four  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  light,  add  them  to  the  boiling  milk,  boil 
one  minute;  allow  it  to  get  ice  cold,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanil- 
la. When  ready  to  serve  turn  the  custard  into  a  glass  dish,  beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff  enough  to  stand,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar,  drop  in  spoonfuls  on  the  custard,  making  six 
islands;  garnish  with  bits  of  currant  jelly  placed  round  the 
islands.  Miss  Ellen  Hearst. 

No.  147  Astor  Street,  Chicago. 


MONDAY,  MARCH  THE  TWENTY-SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  oranges  with  powdered  sugar. 

Broiled  ham.  Bread  and  butter. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 
Chicken  sandwiches. 
Southern  corn  bread.  Strawberry  jam. 

Olives.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Stewed  pigeon.  Steamed  potatoes. 

Hot  steamed  brown  bread. 

Gherkins.  Rice  custard. 

Nuts,  Coffee, 


128  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

Stewed  Pigeon — Slice  a  hard  white  cabbage  into  water,  as  for 
pickling;  drain  it,  boil  it  in  milk  and  water,  again  drain  it,  and 
lay  some  at  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan;  soak  two  pigeons  half 
an  hour,  season  them  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  lay  them  on  the 
cabbage,  and  cover  with  the  remainder  of  it.  Add  a  little  broth, 
stew  gently  till  the  pigeons  are  tender,  and  stir  in  some  flour, 
butter  and  cream  for  thickening.  Let  it  boil  up,  and  serve  the 
birds  in  the  middle,  with  the  cabbage  around  them. 

Rice  Custard — Mix  a  pint  of  milk,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  an 
ounce  of  sifted  ground  rice,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rose  water, 
sweeten  with  loaf  sugar,  and  stir  all  well  together  till  it  nearly 
boils;  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Stir  and  let  it 
simmer  for  about  a  minute,  pour  it  into  a  dish  or  serve  it  in  cups, 
with  sifted  loaf  sugar  and  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

Southern  Corn  Bread — Sift  one  quart  of  white  corn  meal  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  lard,  salt  to  taste,  three  beaten  eggs  and  a  pint  of  milk 
or  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Beat  all  very  hard  for  two 
minutes  and  bake  rather  quickly  in  a  hot,  well-greased  pan  in 
which  a  little  dry  meal  has  been  sifted.     Eat  immediately. 

Nannie  K.  Van  Keuren. 

No.  412  South  Boulevard,  Oak  Park,  Illinois. 


TUESDAY,  MARCH  THE  TWENTY-THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Orange  salad. 

Farina,  sugar  and  cream. 

Creamed  potatoes.  Plain  omelette. 

Graham  gems. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Oyster  croquettes.  Bread  and  butter. 

Lemon  jelly.  Sponge  cake. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Puree  of  vegetable  soup. 

Braised  mutton. 

Potato  puff.  Boston  brown  bread.  Canned  peas. 

Apple  custard  pie. 


Orange  salad — Slice  three  sweet  oranges  lengthwise,  add  the 
juice  of  one  lemon  and  sprinkle  with  one-half  cup  sugar. 

Oyster  Croquettes— One-half  pint  raw  oysters,  half  pint  cooked 


TEiE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  129 

veal,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cracker  crumbs,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  onion 
juice;  chop  the  oysters  and  veal  fine,  add  one-half  teaspoonful 
salt,  a  pinch  of  white  pepper,  mix  together  and  shape.  Dip  in 
egg  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Puree  of  Vegetable  Soup — Peel  two  potatoes  and  one  onion 
and  cut  in  slices.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  butter  in  a  fryingpan, 
add  the  onion,  fry  until  a  golden  brown,  then  turn  into  the  soup 
kettle;  add  the  potatoes,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  one  carrot 
cut  into  slices,  and  one  quart  stock  or  water;  cook  slowly  until 
tender.  Pass  all  through  a  sieve  and  return  to  kettle.  Moisten 
two  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  with  one  pint  milk  and  add  to  the 
puree.    Season  with  half  teaspoonful  salt. 

Braised  Mutton — Put  one  sliced  onion,  one  sliced  carrot  in 
bottom  of  braising  pan  and  lay  upon  it  three  pounds  of  mutton; 
half  cover  with  boiling  water,  cover  closely  and  bake  one-half 
hour;  after  which  season  with  one  large  teaspoonful  salt,  one- 
half  saltspoonful  pepper  and  bake  one-half  hour  longer.  Serve 
with  brown  sauce. 

Potato  Puff — Put  two  cups  of  mashed  potato  into  a  saucepan, 
add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one 
tablespoonful  butter  and  teaspoonful  salt,  stirring  constantly  over 
the  fire  until  the  potatoes  are  light  and  hot.  Take  from  the  fire 
and  stir  in  carefully  the  beaten  whites.  Put  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  brown. 

Boston  Brown  Bread — One  heaping  cup  each  of  corn,  rye  and 
graham  meal,  mixed  together  thoroughly  with  two  cups  sweet 
milk,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  molasses,  one  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda,  one  teaspoon  salt.  Put  into  a  tin  form,  place  over 
a  kettle  of  cold  water  and  steam  four  hours. 

Apple  Custard  Pie — Two  cupfuls  of  stewed  apples,  mashed 
very  fine;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  the 
beaten  white  of  one  egg  and  yolks  of  two.  Bake  with  one  crust. 
Frost  with  the  remaining  white  of  one  egg  and  three  spoonfuls 
sugar. 

Sponge  Cake— Beat  three  eggs  for  ten  minutes;  add  one  cup 
sugar  and  beat  five  minutes;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice  and  one  of  cold  water;  beat  one  minute;  fold  in  carefully 
one  even  cup  sifted  flour.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  twenty- 
five  minutes. 

Glace  Icing  for  Sponge  Cake — One  cup  of  powdered  sugar;  add 
one  tablespoonful  lemon  juice  and  one  of  boiling  water,  or  a  little 
more.  It  should  be  thin  enough  to  spread  itself  slowly  over  the 
cake.  Mrs.  J.  G.  Carr. 

Milton  Junction,  Wis. 


130  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  THE  TWENTY-FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  prunes. 

Rolled  avena  with  cream.  Yeast-raised  muffins. 

Omelet.  Postum  cereal. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  tongue.  Chile  sauce. 

Cream  potatoes. 

Crullers.  Quince  jelly.  Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Argentine  soup. 

Fried  red  snapper.  Baked  potatoes. 

Stewed  celery. 

Steamed  batter  pudding. 

Postum  cereal. 


Prunes — Soak  prunes  over  night  and  boil  slowly  from  five  to 
six  hours.     Sweeten  just  before  removing  from  stove. 

Rolled  Avena — Have  boiling  water  in  lower  part  of  double 
boiler.  Put  one  quart  boiling  water  in  upper  part.  Add  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt.  Stir  in  quickly  one  pint  of  rolled  avena.  Keep 
boiling  rapidly  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Do  not  stir  at  all  while 
cooking.  Remove  cooker  to  stove  shelf  or  top  of  reservoir,  where 
it  will  keep  hot  with  no  danger  of  boiling.  Allow  it  to  remain 
there  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour.  This  process  causes  the 
grains  to  swell  v/ithout  bursting,  and  the  result  is  a  deliciously 
light   dish   of  oatmeal. 

Yeast-Raised  Muffins — One  pint  of  milk,  one  large  kitchen 
spoonful  butter,  melted;  one  cake  compressed  yeast,  one-half 
teaspoonful  salt,  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Mix  these  ingre- 
dients at  supper  time.  Cover  well  and  leave  in  warm  place.  In 
the  morning  add  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg  and  a  pinch  of  soda 
the  size  of  a  pea,  or  more  if  needed  to  make  batter  perfectly 
sweet.    Fry  in  greased  muffin  rings  on  a  hot  greased  griddle. 

Chile  Sauce — To  be  made  in  the  summer.  One-half  peck  toma- 
toes, chopped;  three  stalks  of  celery,  cut  fine;  one  cup  grated 
horseradish;  two  red  peppers,  chopped  fine;  one  cup  of  onions, 
chopped  fine;  one  small  cup  of  salt,  one  cup  of  black  and  white 
mustard  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  pepper  seed,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful 
of  mace,  one  cup  white  sugar,  one  quart  cider  vinegar.  Stir  all 
well  together.     Do  not  cook.    Keep  in  Mason  jars. 

Crullers — Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  but- 
ter, six  eggs,  one-half  nutmeg,  flour  enough  to  make  a  moderately 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  131 

stiff  dough.  Roll  to  a  thickness  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch,  cut  out 
and  fry  in  smoking  hot  lard. 

Argentine  Soup— Soak  one-half  pint  split  peas  for  two  hours. 
Boil  in  plenty  of  water  for  four  hours  with  two  bay  leaves  and 
twelve  seeds  of  dried  red  pepper.  An  hour  before  serving  add  one 
quart  of  good  strong  stock  or  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  cold 
roast  meat  gravy.  One-half  hour  before  serving  add  one  pint  of 
canned  tomatoes.  Allow  soup  to  boil  down  to  three  quarts.  Strain 
through  colander.  Season  with  salt  to  suit  taste.  Two  teaspoon- 
fuls  will  be  found  nearly  correct.  Allow  soup  to  boil  again  before 
serving.  This  soup  may  be  varied  indefinitely  by  using  different 
fresh  and  dried  vegetables. 

Steamed  Batter  Pudding — Beat  one  egg,  add  one-half  teacup 
sugar  and  lump  of  butter  size  of  walnut.  Sift  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt  into  two  cups  of  flour.  Stir 
a  cup  of  raisins  into  the  flour.  Stir  all  together,  adding  gradually 
two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Turn  into  buttered  pudding 
dish.  Steam  one  hour.  Cover  steamer  with  cloth  before  cover- 
ing with  lid,  as  this  closes  it  more  surely.  Serve  pudding  with 
cream  and  sugar.  Mrs.  Milton  Updegraff. 

Columbia,  Mo. 


THURSDAY,  MARCH  THE   TWENTY-FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 
Sausage  omelet.  Watercress.  Potato  chips. 

English  crumpets. 
Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Mayonnaise  fish.  Fresh  rolls. 

Rarebit.  Toasted  wafers.  Jelly. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Pulled  chicken.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Boiled  rice.  Lettuce  salad. 

Orange  float. 

Coffee. 


Sausage  Omelet — Skin  three  links  of  sausage,  put  over  the 
fire  in  a  frying-pan  and  stir  for  five  minutes  and  place  in  the 
middle  of  an  omelet  of  six  eggs,  just  ready  to  fold. 

English  Crumpets — One  quart  of  warm  milk,  half  a  cup  of 
yeast,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 


132  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

When  light  add  half  a  cupful  of  melted  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  a  very  little  more  flour.  Let 
it  stand  twenty  minutes,  or  until  light.  Grease  some  muffin  rings, 
place  them  on  a  hot  griddle  and  fill  them  half  full  of  butter. 
When  done  on  one  side  turn  and  bake  on  the  other.  Butter  them 
while  hot,  pile  one  on  another  and  serve  immediately. 

Mayonnaise  Fish — Take  a  pound  or  more  of  cold  boiled  fish, 
cut  into  pieces  an  inch  in  length.  Put  the  yolks  of  four  fresh  raw 
eggs  with  two  hard-boiled  ones  into  a  cold  bowl.  Rub  them  as 
smooth  as  possible  before  introducing  the  oil.  Allow  a  tablespoon- 
f ul  of  oil  to  each  yolk  of  raw  egg.  Introduce  this  by  degrees,  a  few 
drops  at  a  time.  When  the  oil  is  well  mixed  and  resembles  jelly 
put  in  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and 
one  of  made  mustard.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  gradual- 
ly. Serve  the  fish  in  a  glass  dish,  with  half  the  dressing  stirred 
in  with  it.  Spread  the  remainder  over  the  top  and  lay  lettuce 
leaves  around  the  edges. 

Pulled  Chicken — Cut  off  the  first  and  second  joints,  sides  and 
back  from  a  cold  roasted  chicken,  dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and 
bread  crumbs  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Skin  the  breast 
and  wings  and  pull  the  meat  off  in  fiakes;  heat  in  a  nicely  sea- 
soned white  sauce.  Broil  the  breaded  pieces.  Pour  the  mince 
in  the  middle  of  a  dish,  lay  the  rest  around,  and  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon  may  be  squeezed  over  all. 

White  Sauce — Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  with  two 
of  warm  butter.  Place  over  the  fire  a  saucepan  containing  a  pint 
of  sweet  milk  and  half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  white  pepper. 
When  it  reaches  the  boiling  point  add  the  butter  and  flour,  stir- 
ring briskly  until  it  thickens.    Cook  flve  minutes. 

Orange  Float — One  quart  of  water,  the  juice  and  pulp  of  two 
lemons,  one  coffeecupful  of  sugar.  When  boiling  hot  add  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  time.  When  cold  pour  it  over  five  sliced  oranges  in  a  glass 
dish.  Over  the  top  spread  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  sweet- 
ened and  flavored  with  vanilla.  Mrs.  John  Buie. 

No.  170  Harding  avenue,  Chicago. 


FRIDAY,   MARCH  THE  TWENTY-SIXTH, 


BREAKFAST. 

White  cornmeal  mush  and  cream. 

Broiled  mackerel. 

Toast.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Scrambled  eggs  and  calves'  brains. 

Buttered  white  bread. 

Currant  jam.  Hot  ginger  cake. 

Tea. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  133 

DINNER. 

Chicken  broth  with  rice. 

Broiled  whitefish  and  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Browned  potatoes. 

Orange  salad  and  toasted  crackers. 

Jenny  Linde — lemon  sauce. 

Coffee. 


White  Cornmeal  Mush — The  art  of  making  perfectly  smooth 
mush  is  to  have  the  water  boiling  and  salted.  Into  a  quart  of 
such  water  let  white  meal  fall  from  the  left  hand,  stirring 
steadily  with  the  right  hand  until  the  meal  floats  in  little  dry 
patches  on  top;  then  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
Serve  with  cream. 

Minute  Ginger  Cake — Set  a  teacup  in  a  cake  bowl  and  put 
into  the  cup  five  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water,  one  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  of  ginger,  a  dash  of  cinnamon,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  large  one  of  soda.  Fill  the  cup  with 
real  New  Orleans  molasses  (any  other  will  cause  a  failure)  and 
stir  until  the  mixture  foams  over  into  the  bowl.  Make  thicker 
with  flour  than  any  other  kind  of  cake.  Pour  into  a  small  cake 
pan,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  and  serve  while  hot. 

Broiled  Whitefish  and  Hard-Boiled  Eggs — Every  kitchen 
should  have  a  wire  broiler  to  fit  over  an  iron  dripping-pan.  On 
this  place  whitefish,  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  red  pepper,  and 
a  few  slices  of  breakfast  bacon  on  top.  Put  in  an  evenly  heated 
oven  and  broil  without  turning.  Garnish  with  four  hard-boiled 
eggs,  pressed  through  the  potato-masher.  Butter  the  fish  well 
after  it  is  arranged  on  the  platter.    Serve  with  parsley  and  lemon. 

Browned  Potatoes — Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  thick  slices 
and  brown  each  piece  on  both  sides  (being  careful  not  to  break 
them)  in  a  larded  spider.    Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Orange  Salad — Peel  and  cut  four  oranges  into  dice,  place  on 
lettuce  leaves  or  in  the  halves  of  the  orange  skin  and  pour  over 
a  small  cupful  of  rich  salad  dressing.  Serve  with  toasted  crack- 
ers. 

Jenny  Linde— Make  a  thin  batter  of  three  eggs,  two  full  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  pinch  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  pint  of  milk  or  water,  a  quart  of  flour.  Bake  on 
hot  griddle  in  cakes  the  size  of  a  small  plate.  Butter  on  the  wrong 
side,  spread  with  fruit-jam  or  marmalade,  roll  up,  lay  on  a  flat 
dish,  sprinkle  flne  sugar  over  them.  Serve  hot  with  cream  or 
hot  lemon  sauce. 

Lemon  sauce — One  tablespoonful  butter,  two  of  flour,  three 
of  sugar,  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  rubbed  into  a  smooth  paste. 
Pour  over  the  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  time  to  keep  from 
getting  "humpy."  Let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  it  is  of  the 
consistency  of  cream.     Flavor  with  lemon  juice,  adding  nutmeg 


134  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

and  wine  if  desired.     Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  froth  and 
stir  through  just  before  sending  to  the  table. 

Mary  Erskine. 
No.  505  West  William  Street,  Decatur,  111. 


SATURDAY,   MARCH   THE   TWENTY-SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 

Cracked  wheat,  sugar  and  cream. 

Meat  balls.  Sacked  potatoes. 

Flannel  cakes.  Maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Fish  rechauffe. 

Thirded   biscuit. 

One-egg  lunch  cake.        Stewed  dried  peaches. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Lenten  soup. 

Veal  steaks,  horseradish. 

Hominy  croquettes.  Panned  potatoes. 

Orange  pie.  Coffee. 


Flannel  Cakes — One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  pint  of  flour, 
one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  two  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour  and 
add  the  salt.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  light,  add  the  milk  to 
them  and  when  well  beaten  stir  the  milk  into  the  flour  until  quite 
smooth.  Beat  the  whites  light;  add  them,  and  lastly  the  bak- 
ing-powder, and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Meat  Balls — One  pint  of  fine-chopped  cold  meat  (any  kind 
left  over  from  previous  dinner);  add  one  cupful  of  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  a  little  chopped  onion,  a  little  gravy  mixed  with 
the  cracker  crumbs  to  moisten  them.  Season  with  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mold  into 
balls  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drippings. 

Sacked  Potatoes — Select  for  baking  potatoes  as  near  of  a  size 
as  possible;  cut  off  each  end,  and  when  baked  scoop  out  the  in- 
side with  a  spoon,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  skins.  Add  to 
the  potato  (for  one-half  dozen)  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one-half 
cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Beat  until  very  light  and  smooth.  Fill  the 
skins  with  this  and  place  in  a  greased  pan  and  set  on  the  oven 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  135 

grate  until  ends  of  potatoes  are  browned.  The  potatoes  will  puff 
up  considerably  if  sufficiently  beaten.     Very  nice. 

Fish  Rechauffe — The  fish  left  over  from  dinner  may,  by  this 
process,  be  made  into- a  most  palatable  dish.  Heat  the  fish  in  a 
frying-pan,  removing  the  large  bones  if  the  fish  is  broken  or  has 
been  cut,  but  if  pan  fish  and  whole  do  not  break  them.  While 
heating,  prepare  the  dressing.  To  one  pound  of  fish  allow  one 
and  one-half  cupfuls  of  canned  tomato,  one  level  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  egg  (yolk),  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Stew  the 
tomato  until  soft,  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve  to  remove  the 
ends,  return  to  the  stew-pan  and  add  the  salt  and  pepper.  Beat 
the  egg  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water;  when  the  tomato 
is  boiling  hot  set  the  pan  in  a  mild  heat  and  add  the  yolk,  stir- 
ring well.  Do  not  boil  the  sauce  after  the  egg  is  added,  as  it  is 
likely  to  break.  The  heat  should  be  just  sufficient  to  cook  the 
egg  and  thicken  the  tomato  to  the  consistency  of  cream.  Remove 
the  fish  to  a  platter,  turn  over  it  the  sauce  and  serve. 

Thirded  Biscuit — One  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  Indian  meal, 
one  cup  of  rye  flour,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  into  which  put  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  two  well  beaten  eggs.  Mix  the  wheat  and  rye  flour 
and  Indian  meal;  add  the  milk,  sugar,  salt,  and  lastly  the  eggs. 
Bake  in  gem  pans. 

One-Egg  Lunch  Cake — One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  scant 
cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  three-quar- 
ters cup  of  milk  (scant),  three-quarters  cup  of  currants,  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream,  then  add  the  well-beaten  egg.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking 
powder  together;  add  them  and  milk  to  the  mixture;  beat  well, 
then  add  the  currants,  which  have  been  floured.  Beat  well  and 
bake  in  a  loaf  pan  or  in  small  patty  pans. 

Lenten  Soup — Prepare  three  carrots,  three  turnips  and  three 
onions  by  scraping,  peeling  and  washing.  Slice  them  and  fry 
them  a  golden  brown  in  fresh  lard  or  dripping.  Cut  up  a  head  of 
celery  and  put  in  and  fry  a  few  moments  also.  Add  to  this  two 
cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  a 
little  parsley  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Cover  this  with  nearly 
three  quarts  of  water  and  simmer  three  hours.  This  may  be 
used  instead  of  broth  in  the  Lenten  season. 

Veal  Steaks — These  are  delicious  broiled  as  beefsteak  over  a 
hot  fire.  The  steak  should  be  thinner  than  beefsteak  to  cook 
quickly  through,  and  v/hen  taken  up  on  a  heated  platter  should 
be  spread  with  a  little  butter  and  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Take  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  veal  steak,  pound  with  sharp 
end  of  a  small  hammer  and  proceed  as  above.  Or  place  in  a 
pan  with  a  lump  of  butter,  salt  and^ pepper  sprinkled  lightly  over 
it,  also  a  little  flour,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  half  an  hour. 
This  is  truly  delicious. 

Hominy  Croquettes — One  pint  of  cold  hominy  mush,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful 
of  white  sugar.    Mix  well,  make  into  balls  and  dip  in  fine  cracker 


136  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

crumbs  or  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  a  golden  brown.  Serve  im- 
mediately quite  hot. 

Orange  Pie — To  the  grated  rind  of  one-half  a  lemon  and  half 
the  grated  rind  of  one  orange  add  the  juice  of  both  the  orange 
and  the  lemon.  Beat  to  a  cream  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Heat  in  a  bowl 
of  hot  water  until  of  the  consistency  of  cream  and  put  into  the 
pie  crust  and  bake.  Beat  whites  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar.  When  pies  are  done  cover  with  meringue  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  harden.  Miss  S.  S.  Wilson. 

Box  1042,  Hudson,  Mich. 


SUNDAY,  MARCH  THE  TWENTY-EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Farina,  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Creamed  fish. 

Fried  grits   (small  hominy). 

Graham  gems. 

Cocoa   or    coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Boiled  ham.  Duchess  potatoes 

Snow  cakes.  Egg  cream. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  '=ioup. 

Stewed  chicken.  Rice  croquettes. 

Corn  (canned).  Dinner  rolls. 

Coffee  jelly,  with  cream. 

Sponge  cake. 


Farina — Three  tablespoonfuls  granulated  farina,  one-half 
saltspoonful  salt,  one  pint  boiling  water.  Cook  the  mixture  in  a 
sauce-pan  for  twenty  minutes  after  it  actually  boils.  This  is  a 
very  delicate  food.    Served  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Creamed  Fish — Any  whitefish  which  flakes  easily  may  be 
used.  Cusk,  cod  and  haddock  are  particularly  good.  Cook  the 
fish  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  by  gentle  boiling.  Remove  the 
flesh  carefully  from  the  bones,  letting  it  separate  into  flakes; 
season  a  pint  of  fish  with  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  pepper  and  a  few  drops  lemon  juice.  For  a  pint  of 
fish  make  a  sauce  with  four  dessertspoonfuls  of  butter,  two  of 
flour,  one  pint  milk,  iii  which  a  small  slice  of  onion  has  been 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  l3t 

boiled.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  seasoned  fish,  mix,  arrange  in  a 
platter,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  (buttered)  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  A  speck  of  cayenne  is  a 
good  addition  to  the  sauce. 

Fried  Grits — Boil  a  small  cup  of  grits  in  one  quart  salted 
water  until  tender;  then  pour  in  a  platter  one-half  inch  thick 
to  cook.  When  cold  cut  in  small  slices,  flour  slightly  and  brown 
both  sides  on  a  hot  griddle  greased  well  with  butter  or  lard. 

Graham  Gems — One  cup  milk,  half-teaspoon  salt,  half-cup 
white  flour,  one  cup  graham  flour,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  half-teaspoon  soda  (slightly  scanted), 
one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Sift  and  measure  graham  flour; 
add  soda,  cream  of  tartar  and  white  flour,  and  sift  again.  Mix 
milk,  salt,  sugar  together  and  stir  into  flour.  Last,  put  in  the 
melted  butter,  heat  for  a  minute,  then  drop  a  spoonful  in  each 
division  of  a  gem  pan,  which  should  be  well  greased  and  made 
very  hot  on  top  of  stove.  Bake  in  hot  oven  from  twenty-five  to 
thirty  minutes. 

Snow  Cakes — Half-tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  sugar, 
whites  of  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  saltspoon 
salt,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  cup  milk. 
Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together  four  times.  Cream 
the  butter  and  sugar  with  a  little  of  the  milk;  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  well  beaten,  the  rest  of  the  milk,  and,  last,  the  flour. 
Bake  this  batter  in  hot  buttered  gem  pans  from  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes,  or  you  can  bake  in  small  round  earthen  cups.  These 
cakes  are  delicious  eaten  hot  for  lunch  or  tea. 

Duchess  Potatoes — One  pint  potatoes,  one  teaspoon  butter, 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  egg,  one  and  one-quarter  spoons  white 
pepper.  Wash,  pare  and  boil  potatoes.  When  dry  and  mealy 
put  in  the  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  mash  them  thoroughly  and 
quickly.  Add  the  egg,  well  beaten,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream  or  milk.  Mix  and  form  into  a  flat  cake  half-inch  thick. 
Cut  into  oblongs  or  squares  or  shape  into  balls,  brush  over  with 
white  of  egg  or  milk  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  a  delicate 
brown. 

Egg  Cream — Two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  piece  grated 
rind  of  half  a  lemon.  Separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites  and 
beat  in  a  bowl  with  the  sugar  until  both  are  well  mixed.  Then 
put  in  the  lemon  and  place  the  bowl  in  a  dish  of  boiling  water 
on  the  fije.  Stir  slowly  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Then 
add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  stir  for  two  minutes,  or 
until  the  whole  resembles  very  thick  cream.  Remove  from  fire, 
pour  into  small  china  cups  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  Double  the 
recipe  when  needed. 

Tomato  Soup — Let  the  canned  tomatoes  stew  only  just  long 
enough  to  soften  through.  When  they  are  soft  strain  through  a 
soup-strainer  or  coarse  wire-strainer  until  there  is  nothing  left 
but  the  seeds.  Measure  a  pint  of  the  liquid,  add  one  teaspoon 
S3  It.  one  saltspoon  pepper,  one-half  saltspoon  of  soda  and  set  it 
in  the  stove  to  heat  slowly.  Meanwhile  make  a  white  sauce,  with 
one  tablespoon  butter,  one  of  flour  and  one  pint  milk,  thus:     Set 


138       THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

the  milk  on  fire  in  a  sauce-pan  to  heat;  put  the  butter  and  flour 
in  another  pan  on  the  fire  and  stir  gently  until  the  butter  melts; 
let  them  bubble  together  two  or  three  minutes,  then  pour  in  milk, 
a  little  at  a  time,  until  all  is  used;  stir  so  it  will  be  smooth,  until 
it  bubbles;  add  this  sauce  "to  the  tomato,  strain  all  again,  return 
to  fire  and  serve  as  soon  as  steaming  hot. 

Stewed  Chicken — One  chicken,  weighing  about  three  pounds, 
cut  into  pieces,  as  for  serving;  wash  in  cold  water,  then  put  in 
sauce-pan,  with  one  quart  boiling  water;  cover  and  let  simmer 
an  hour;  then  add  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful 
pepper,  a  very  small  sliced  onion,  one  dozen  celery  seeds;  cover 
and  let  simmer  until  perfectly  tender;  several  hours.  Just  before 
dinner  time  add  a  small  cup  of  milk,  in  which  has  been  dissolved 
one  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch;  stir  slowly  until  it  all  comes  to 
a  boil  and  begins  to  thicken  like  cream;  add  teaspoon  of  very 
fine  chopped  parsley,  over  all,  when  dished. 

Rice  Croquettes — One  cupful  boiled  rice,  one-half  cup  milk, 
one  egg,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg.  Put  milk  on  to  boil  and  add  rice 
and  seasoning.  When  it  boils  up  add  the  egg  well  beaten.  Stir 
one  minute;  take  off  and  cool.  When  cold,  shape  and  roll  in 
egg  and  crumbs  and  brown  a  few  at  a  time  in  hot  fat. 

Coffee  Jelly — One-fourth  box  gelatine,  dissolved  in  one-half 
cup  cold  v/ater  an  hour,  then  one  cup  boiling  water,  one  cup  very 
strong  coffee,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla  (or 
this  may  be  left  out).  The  coffee  should  be  made  with  the  pro- 
portion of  two  tablespoons  of  coffee  to  a  cup  of  water,  coffee 
should  also  be  added  boiling  hot;  after  the  boiling  water  then 
the  sugar.  When  all  is  dissolved  strain  and  set  away  to  cool. 
Serve  with  sweet  cream,  and  sugar  if  desired.  Nelson's  gelatine 
is  the  most  delicate.  The  cup  for  boiling  water  and  coffee  should 
hold  half  a  pint.  The  cold  water  measure  in  a  teacup.  If  jelly 
is  liked  very  sweet  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar  can  be  used. 

Sponge  Cake — Three  eggs,  one  cup  flour,  three  tablespoons 
cold  v/ater,  one  cup  sugar,  two  even  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
flavor  as  preferred,  beat  white  of  eggs  stiff  and  set  aside,  sift 
flour  with  baking  powder  twice,  beat  yolks  of  eggs  very  light, 
add  sugar,  beat  well  together,  then  add  cold  water,  the  flour,  a 
little  at  a  time,  and  last  the  whites.  Have  gem  pans  well  buttered, 
half  fill  and  bake  at  once  in  a  good  oven.  This  will  make  about 
a  dozen  nice  small  cakes,  Mrs.  Thomas  Turtle. 

No.  2815  Q  Street,  Washington,  D.  C. 


MONDAY,  MARCH  THE  TWENTY-NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Acidulated  bananas. 

Cracked  wheat  with  cream. 

Eggs  sur  le  plat.  Steamed  graham  bread. 

Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  139 

LUNCHEON. 

Baked  codfish.  Buttered  toast. 

Currant  buns.  Peach  cream. 

Russian  tea. 


DINNER. 

Duchess  soup. 

Spiced  roast  mutton.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Rich  parsnips.  Corn  fritters. 

Sweet  pickled  watermelon. 

Cream  puffs.  Drip  coffee. 

Cheese. 


Acidulated  Bananas — Slice  four  ripe  bananas  in  a  glass  dish 
and  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon  over  them.  Then  add  a 
gill  of  ice  water  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Let  stand  half  an  hour 
in  cold  place. 

Egg  sur  le  Plat — Beat  two  eggs  separately,  spread  upon  stone- 
ware platter,  then  drop  five  eggs  upon  this,  season  with  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  third  as  much  of  pepper.  Sprinkle  half 
a  teacupful  of  cracker  crumbs  over  all  and  place  in  a  hot  oven 
until  eggs  are  set. 

Baked  Codfish — Pick  one  teacup  of  codfish  fine,  let  it  stew 
gently  in  warm  water  while  you  mix  two  cups  of  cold  mashed 
potatoes  with  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  lump  of  butter 
size  of  egg,  pinch  of  pepper  and  salt  if  necessary.  Stir  with 
codfish,  pour  in  pudding  dish  and  bake  about  thirty  minutes. 

Currant  Buns — Mix  one  pint  warmed  milk,  half  a  cake  of 
compressed  yeast  and  one  quart  of  fiour  and  let  rise  in  warm 
place  for  nearly  three  hours.  Then  add  half  a  cup  of  butter 
rubbed  to  a  cream  with  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  one  beaten 
egg;  then  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  and  a  cup  of  floured 
currants;  knead  quickly;  let  rise  until  very  light,  then  make  into 
quite  small  buns.  Set  them  close  together  on  tins  and  let  rise 
again.  When  all  of  a  sponge  brush  the  tops  with  a  little  milk 
and  sugar  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

Peach  Cream — Mash  a  cupful  of  canned  peaches  (or  fresh,  in 
season)  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Allow  as  much  cream  as  peach 
pulp,  sweeten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  beat  briskly 
until  the  cream  is  light.    Serve  in  glasses  with  currant  buns. 

Duchess  Soup — Two  slices  each  of  carrot  and  onion  cooked  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  five  minutes.  Add  one  quart  of  white 
stock,  one  small  blade  of  mace  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Melt 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
until  free  from  lumps,  add  gradually  the  seasoned  stock,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  saltspoon  of  pepper  and  one  pint  of  rich  milk. 
Stir  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese.    Cook  two  minutes. 

Roast  Mutton,   Spiced — Prepare  any  roasting  cut  of    young 


140  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD   CuOK    BOOK. 

mutton  by  rubbing  well  with  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  an  even  tea- 
spoon of  pepper,  place  in  iron  baking  pan  with  six  whole  cloves, 
one  dozen  whole  allspice,  three  tablespoons  sugar,  one-third  pint 
vinegar  and  two-thirds  pint  of  water.  Cover  with  another  pan 
and  cook  very  slowly  in  gentle  oven  until  half  an  hour  before 
serving,  then  let  the  heat  into  the  oven  and  brown  quickly.  Baste 
often  and  add  water  as  needed. 

Rich  Parsnips — Boil  half  a  dozen  parsnips  with  six  thin  slices 
of  bacon.  Allow  the  water  to  boil  away  and  then  fry  down  to 
a  rich  brown.    The  bacon  gives  a  fine  flavor. 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Sacksteder. 

Downer's  Grove,  111. 


TUESDAY,  MARCH  THE  THIRTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  dried  peaches. 

Hominy  and  cream. 

Whitefish  fritters. 

Bannocks. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Shepherd's  pie. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Boston"   cream    puffs. 

Canned  strawberries. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Savory  soup. 

Breast  of  veal  baked  with  tomatoes. 

French  fried  potatoes. 

Scalloped  parsnips. 

Sweet  cucumber  pickles. 

Amber  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Whitefish  Fritters — One  cup  of  cold  boiled  fish,  flaked  up 
fine,  add  to  it  half  a  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  half  a  cup  of  grated 
bread  crumbs,  half  a  cup  of  cream,  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Mix  all  well  together,  then  make  into  cakes  or  balls;  beat  up 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  a  little,  dip  the  cakes  into  the  whites,  then 
into  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Garnish  with  parsley 
and  serve  hot.  An  excellent  and  appetizing  way  to  utilize  "left- 
overs." 

Bannocks — Two  teacups  of  oatmeal  or  barley  meal  sifted  with 
two  teaspoons    baking   powder;     add   to    two    beaten  eggs  one 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  141 

tablespoon  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt, 
sift  in  the  oatmeal  or  barley.    Bake  on  a  griddle. 

Shepherd's  Pie — Take  one  quart  of  any  kind  of  cold  meat, 
cut  it  up  fine  and  season  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  one-quarter 
teaspoon  of  pepper.  Put  the  meat  into  a  well-buttered  pudding- 
dish.  Thicken  a  scant  pint  of  gravy  or  stock  with  one  table- 
spoon of  flour  rubbed  smooth  with  half  a  tablespoon  of  butter; 
grate  fine  one  small  onion  (if  flavor  is  liked),  add  to  the  gravy 
and  pour  it  over  the  meat  while  hot.  Have  ready  eight  potatoes, 
pared,  boiled  and  mashed;  add  to  them  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  dash  of  pepper,  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  two  of  rich, 
sweet  milk.  Beat  all  well  together,  then  spread  the  potato  thick 
over  the  top  of  the  meat.  Bake  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  having 
the  potatoes  a  light  brown.     Serve  hot  in  the  same  dish. 

Savory  Soup — Put  a  soup  bone  on  the  fire  in  two  quarts  of 
cold  water,  simmer  three  hours.  One-half  hour  before  serving 
add  one-half  cup  of  rice  (which  has  been  soaked  in  cold  water 
until  soft),  three  tablespoons  of  oatmeal,  one  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  one-quarter  teaspoon  of  pepper.  A  most  delicious  and  eco- 
nomical soup. 

Breast  of  Veal  Baked  with  Tomatoes — Take  a  nice  breast  of 
veal,  wipe  it  off  with  a  wet  cloth,  place  it  in  a  small  dripping- 
pan  and  brown  it  quickly  in  a  hot  oven.  When  the  veal  is  brown 
season  it  highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  pour  one  pint  of 
canned  tomatoes  over  it  and  bake  until  the  veal  is  well  done. 
Take  it  up  with  the  tomatoes  on  the  same  dish  and  serve  hot. 
This  is  a  favorite  southern  way  of  cooking  veal. 

Amber  Pudding — Into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  stir  a  teacup  of 
cornmeal  and  a  quart  of  sliced  sweet  apples;  add  a  half- teaspoon 
of  salt  and  a  teacup  of  molasses.  Mix  thoroughly.  Add  two 
quarts  of  milk;  pour  into  a  large  buttered  dish  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  four  hours.  When  cold  a  clear,  amber-colored  jelly 
will  have  formed  throughout  the  pudding  and  the  apples  will  be 
of  a  rich  dark  brown.  Mrs.  J.  W.  MacGowan. 

Farrington,  111. 


WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  THE  THIRTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Oatmeal,  sugar  and  cream. 

Fish  balls.  Muffins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Little  pigs  in  blankets. 

Bread  and  butter.  Lettuce  salad. 

Stewed  evaporated  pears. 

Tea. 


142  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Split  pea  soup. 

Walled  chicken.  Stewed  tomatoes. 

Fruit  jelly. 

Coffee. 


MufRns — One  pint  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda, 
half  teaspoonful  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  that  will  drop 
from  the  spoon.  Beat  soda  into  milk,  add  salt  and  the  eggs  well 
beaten,  then  the  flour.  Half  fill  your  well-buttered  muffin  rings, 
and  bake  quickly. 

Fruit  Jelly — First  make  plain  lemon  jelly,  adding  sugar  ac- 
cording to  the  fruit  to  be  used.  When  beginning  to  set  add  one 
orange,  one  banana  and  two  or  three  figs  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Serve  plain  or  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  W.  Willmarth. 

No.  415  46th  Street,  Chicago,  111. 


THURSDAY,  APRIL  THE  FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Oatmeal,  sugar  and  cream. 

Ham  pate.  Potatoes  a  la  creme. 

Proverbs.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Creamed  fish.  White  potatoes. 

Brown  bread.  New  England  fire  cakes. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Mock  bisque  soup. 

Yankee  pot  pie.  Beets. 

Baked  corn.         Cake  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Proverbs — One  cup  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  two  cups  of  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  good  baking  powder,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Beat 
together  thoroughly.  Fill  gem  or  patty  pans  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.    Good. 

White  Potatoes — Boll  and  peel  six  potatoes;  cut  them  in 
halves  and  lay  in  a  vegetable  dish.  Have  ready  a  sauce  like  the 
following:  Put  in  a  saucepan  one  cup  of  milk,  stir  in  carefully 
one  scant  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and  two  chopped  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  shake  of  pepper.  Heat 
together  thoroughly  and  pour  all  over  the  potatoes.     Serve  hot. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  143 

Brown  Bread — One  even  cup  of  Indian  meal,  two  heaping 
cups  rye  meal,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  small  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  one  cup  of  molasses.  Mix  very  thoroughly  together  the 
meal,  salt  and  soda.  Add  one  pint  of  hot  water  to  the  molasses 
and  stir.  Pour  the  molasses  and  water  into  the  middle  of  the 
meal  and  stir  till  a  smooth  batter.  Put  in  a  buttered  tin,  cover 
tightly  and  set  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water  and  steam  three  hours. 
Then  set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

New  England  Fire  Cakes — Make  a  pie  crust  not  quite  as  rich 
as  for  puff  paste.  Cut  off  small  pieces  and  roll  out  to  about  the 
size  of  a  breakfast  plate  and  as  nearly  round  as  possible.  Have 
a  griddle  over  the  fire.  Grease  and  place  one  cake  on  it  and  bake 
a  nice  brov/n.  Turn  it  when  done  on  one  side  and  brown  nicely 
on  the  other.  When  done  put  on  a  plate  and  butter  it  well. 
Spread  a  layer  of  preserved  straw^berries  or  raspberries  on  it. 
Have  ready  another  cake  and  bake.  Pile  one  upon  the  other  and 
butter  and  spread  layers  of  preserves  until  all  the  pastry  you 
have  made  is  cooked.  Serve  quite  hot.  Cut  down  through  all 
the  layers.  It  is  an  old-fashioned  New  England  cake  and  in 
olden  times  was  cooked  in  iron  spiders  propped  up  before  the 
kitchen  fire;  hence  its  name.  It  is  a  very  nice  shortcake  to  be 
eaten  hot  for  luncheon  or  supper. 

Beets — Wash  and  put  them  on  to  boil.  An  inch  of  the  stalk 
should  be  left  on  to  prevent  their  "bleeding."  The  time  for  boil- 
ing depends  on  the  age  of  the  beets.  When  young  one  hour  is 
suflacient;  when  older  several  hours  are  required  to  make  them 
tender.  When  done  skim  them  and  slice  them,  then  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  a  little  butter  and  enough  vinegar  to  nearly  cover. 

Baked  Corn — One  can  of  corn.  Add  one  cup  of  boiling  milk, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Put  in  a  baking-dish,  dot  over 
small  bits  of  butter  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-quarters 
of  an  hour. 

Cake  Pudding — Take  six  thin,  stale  pieces  of  cake,  spread 
them  sparingly  with  currant  jelly.  Blanch  two  dozen  almoftds 
and  split  them;  stick  them  in  the  cake  and  lay  the  pieces  of  cake 
in  a  shallow  dish  or  small  platter.  Make  a  soft  custard  of  one 
large  coffeecup  of  milk,  one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.    Pour  over  the  cake  and  serve. 

Miss  Helen  Brown. 

Hudson  Mich.,  Box  1042. 


FRIDAY,  APRIL  THE  SECOND. 


MENU  FOR  LENT. 


BREAKFAST. 

Jellied  apples. 

Codfish  balls.  Soft  corn-bread. 

Coffee. 


144  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

"Something  for  luncheon." 

Banana  cream.  Fruit  cookies. 

Dutch  cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Creamed  salmon. 

Potato  puffs.  Onion  pie. 

Apple  salad.  Crisped  crackers. 

Chocolate  meringue.  French  coffee. 


Jellied  Apples — Cut  seven  or  eight  tart  apples  in  halves,  core 
and  set  in  baking-pan,  cored  side  up;  pour  over  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  cold  water  and  three  small  cups  of  sugar,  cover 
closely  and  let  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour;  remove  cover,  set 
in  oven  and  bake  brown.    Use  cold. 

Soft  Corn-Bread — Half  a  pint  of  cornmeal,  half  a  pint  of  sour 
milk,  half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
pinch  of  salt,  two  well-beaten  eggs.    Bake  in  deep  dish. 

"Something  for  Luncheon" — Break  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
cheese  into  small  bits  and  pound  to  a  smooth  paste  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful 
of  mustard,  a  very  little  cayenne  and  a  small  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Toast  six  slices  of  bread,  spread  with  the  mixture^  put 
in  hot  oven  for  five  minutes.    Serve  at  once. 

Banana  Cream — Peel  five  large  bananas  and  rub  them  smooth 
with  five  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar;  beat  one-half  pint  of 
cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  pounded  fruit  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  lemon  juice.  Mix  and  add  half  an  ounce-  of  Cox's  gelatine  pre- 
viously dissolved  in  enough  rich  milk  to  cover  it;  whisk  all  to- 
gether gently  and  mold.     Use  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  alone. 

Fruit  Cookies — Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  seeded  raisins,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  cin- 
namon, one  small  nutmeg  grated,  two  eggs,  three  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour.     Drop  on  pan  to  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Dutch  Cocoa — Scald  one  quart  of  milk.  Mix  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  Dutch  cocoa,  two  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Pour  slowly  upon  this  one  cup  of  boiling  water;  add  this  mix- 
ture to  the  hot  milk,  mill  or  beat  with  egg-beater  for  two  min- 
utes and  serve. 

Creamed  Salmon — Drain  the  fish  from  a  can  of  salmon  and 
chop  fine;  grease  the  bottom  of  a  small  baking-dish  and  put  in  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  fish  and  so  on  until  a 
pint  of  crumbs  and  the  fish  have  been  used,  having  crumbs  last. 
Pour  over  all  a  dressing  made  of  one  pint  of  milk  scalded,  with 
two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  fiour,  a  level  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  a  liberal  sprinkling  of  pepper.    Bake  until  brown. 

Onion  Pie — Six  onions  sliced  into  a  skillet  with  enough  but- 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  145 

ter  and  lard  to  fry;  when  soft  add  half  a  cup  of  milk  and  cream, 
equal  quantities,  one  beaten  egg;  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of 
flour  mixed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk,  a  half-teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Have  ready  baked  a  good  pie 
crust  in  the  usual  pie  plate,  fill  with  onion  mixture  and  set  in 
oven  long  enough  to  brown  on  top.  No  upper  crust.  A  most 
excellent  German  dish. 

Apple  Salad — Peel  and  core  three  nice  apples.  Cut  in  small 
pieces  as  you  would  celery  for  chicken  salad.  Squeeze  the  juice 
of  a  large  lemon  over  at  once  to  keep  from  turning  dark.  Cut  up 
half  as  much  of  white  celery.  When  ready  to  use  put  together 
with  French  salad  dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Sacksteder. 

Downers  Grove,  111. 


SATURDAY,  APRIL  THE  THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  apples.  Rice  omelet. 

Potato  balls.  Toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Halibut  on  toast.  Potato  salad. 

Dainty  berry  cakes. 

Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Julienne  soup, 

Muttonettes.  Potato  snow.         Mashed  turnips. 

Orange  roley-poley. 

Coffee. 


Stewed  Apples — Pare  neatly  and  cut  in  halves  five  large,  firm 
greenings,  place  in  a  shallow  stewpan,  with  a  little  more  than 
half  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  few  pieces  of  lemon  and  boiling  water  to 
cover.  Stew  slowly  until  the  apples  are  very  tender;  remove  to 
a  dish  carefully,  boil  the  sirup  a  half  hour  longer,  pour  it  over 
the  apples  and  eat  cold. 

Omelet — Take  cupful  of  cold  boiled  unseasoned  rice,  turn  over 
it  a  cupful  of  warm  milk,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted, 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper;  mix  well,  then  add 
three  well-beaten  eggs.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  hot 
frying  pan,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil  pour  in  the  omelet  and 
set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven.  As  soon  as  it  is  cooked  through  fold 
it  double  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  at  once.    Very  nice. 


146  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Halibut  on  Toast— Put  into  boiling  salted  water  one  pound  of 
fresh  halibut;  cook  slowly  until  done;  remove  from  the  water 
and  chop  it  fine,  then  add  half  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  and  five 
eggs  well  beaten;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  on  the  fire 
a  thick  frying-pan,  well  greased  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
pour  in  the  fish  and  eggs  and  stir  one  way  until  the  eggs  are 
cooked,  but  not  too  hard.  Turn  over  toast  dipped  in  hot  salted 
water. 

Berry  Cakes — One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  milk,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  In  this  batter 
stir  a  pint  bowl  of  canned  berries  with  the  juice  poured  off,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  muffin  rings.  Serve  while  warm  with 
butter. 

Muttonettes — Purchase  mutton  cut  from  the  leg  in  slices  about 
half  an  inch  thick.  On  each  slice  lay  a  large  tablespoonful  of 
stufling,  made  with  bread  crumbs,  a  beaten  egg,  butter,  salt,  pep- 
per, sage  and  summer  savory.  Roll  up  the  slices,  pinning  with 
small  wooden  toothpicks  to  keep  the  dressing  in.  Put  a  little 
butter  and  water  in  a  baking-pan  with  the  mutton  and  cook  in 
hot  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Baste  often,  and  when  done 
thicken  the  gravy,  pour  over  the  meat,  garnish  with  parsley  and 
serve  on  hot  platter, 
sauce.  Mrs.  Marion  C.  Wilson. 

No.  6407  Lexington  Avenue,  Chicago. 


SUNDAY,  APRIL  THE  FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Crushed  wheat  and  cream. 

Baked  halibut  steaks.  Potato  Lyonnaise. 

Pauline  muffins.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Lobster  salad.  Bread  and  butter. 

Delicate  cake.  Chocolate  cream. 

Almond  milk. 


DINNER. 

Duchess  soup. 

Steamed  chicken.  Baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Radishes.  Bread  and  butter. 

Creamed  apple  tart.  Tea. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  147 

Baked  Halibut  Steaks — Trim  the  steaks,  lay  them  in  a  roast- 
ing pan,  and  for  two  pounds  use  one  cup  of  cream,  one  teaspoon 
of  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one 
saltspoon  of  pepper.  Dredge  the  steaks  with  the  flour,  add  the 
seasoning  and  dot  with  the  butter;  then  pour  over  the  cream  and 
bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.     These  are  delicious. 

Pauline  Mufiins — One  pint  flour,  one  pint  milk,  two  eggs,  one 
tablespoon  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  and  sift  together  the  flour, 
baking  powder  and  salt,  rub  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  mix  the 
flour  with  it  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs  and  beat  until  smooth. 
Then  pour  in  the  milk  and  beat  rapidly  until  very  light.  Pour 
into  buttered  muflin  rings  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Delicate  Cake — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup 
butter,  beat  to  a  cream;  then  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  six 
eggs  and  one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half 
cup  cornstarch  and  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Sift  flour,  corn- 
starch and  baking  powder  together.  Beat  thoroughly,  flavor  with 
one-half  teaspoon  of  almond  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Sufii- 
cient  for  three  days. 

Chocolate  Cream — Soak  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  one-half 
cup  of  cold  water  one  hour.  Add  to  the  same  one-half  cup  grated 
chocolate,  one-half  pound  of  white  sugar  and  one  pint  milk;  stir 
all  together  and  boil  flve  minutes  by  placing  the  vessel  in  another 
of  boiling  water,  then  add  one-half  pint  of  rich  cream;  boil  one 
minute.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  of  extract  of  vanilla  and  pour 
into  molds  to  cool.  The  mold  should  be  wet  with  cold  water, 
as  the  jelly  slips  out  easier.  Suflicient  for  two  meals  and  should 
be  kept  cool. 

Almond  Milk— Almond  milk  is  a  delicious  beverage,  but  it 
does  not  keep  long  and  should  be  made  a  short  time  before  it 
is  needed.  Take  three  dozen  fresh  almonds,  blanch  by  pouring 
boiling  water  over  them  and  removing  the  skins;  then  pound  to 
a  paste;  add  one  gill  of  boiling  water,  strain,  and  then  add  one 
quart  of  cold  water  and  one-half  cup  sugar.  Set  on  the  ice  until 
ready  for  use. 

Duchess  Soup— One  quart  of  milk,  two  onions,  three  eggs,  two 
tablespoons  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one 
saltspoon  pepper  and  two  tablespoons  grated  cheese.  Put  the  milk 
on  to  boil.  Fry  the  butter  and  onions  together  for  eighteen  min- 
utes; then  add  the  dry  flour  and  cook  two  minutes  longer,  being 
careful  not  to  burn.  Blend  with  the  milk,  and  cook  ten  minutes. 
Rub  through  a  strainer,  and  return  to  the  fire.  Now  add  the 
cheese,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the  eggs,  dilute  with  two  table- 
spoons of  the  soup,  strain,  and  pour  slowly  into  the  soup,  stirring 
it  briskly.  It  must  not  boil  again,  but  should  stand  hot  for  three 
minutes. 

Steamed  Chicken— Wipe  very  dry  after  cleaning.  Rub  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  pepper  and  two  tablespoons  butter 
in  the  cavity  of  the  body;    fill  it  with  oysters  seasoned  with  a 


148  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

saltspoon  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  pepper  and  one  of  celery  salt. 
Tie  the  legs  and  wings  close  to  the  body,  and  lay  in  as  small  a 
dish  as  will  hold  it,  set  in  a  steamer  and  steam  four  hours.  Mean- 
time cook  a  pint  of  chopped  celery  till  it  will  rub  through  a  puree 
sieve.  Make  a  pint  of  white  sauce  with  the  liquor  of  the  oysters, 
add  the  celery  to  it  and  pour  it  over  the  fowl  on  the  platter.  Gar- 
nish with  curly  parsley. 

Creamed  Apple  Tart — Line  a  small  deep  pudding  dish  with 
pastry,  pack  in  one  and  one-half  pints  of  cut  apples  with  three- 
fourths  cup  brown  sugar  and  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Cover  and  bake  till  well  done.  Lift  the  crust  and  pour  in  one 
pint  of  whipped  cream.  Do  not  return  the  upper  crust,  but  set 
aside  and  serve  when  ice  cold.  Miss  Birdie  Stenson. 

No.  6  Liberty  Street,  Janesville,  Wis. 


MONDAY,  APRIL  THE  FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges.  Germea. 

Eggs,  New  York  style.  Sweet  muffins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Banked  salmon.  Radishes. 

White  and  graham  bread. 

Stewed  dried  pears.  Ginger  bread. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Puree  of  chicken  and  rice. 

Round  roast  of  beef  with  gravy. 

Browned  potatoes.  Tomatoes   (canned). 

Blanc  mange  with  caramel  sauce. 


Germea — Bring  to  briskly  boiling  point  one  quart  of  water  and 
add  one  level  teaspoon  of  salt.  Pour  slowly  into  water  one  cup 
of  germea.  Stir  thoroughly  while  it  cooks  from  three  to  five 
minutes.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar.  Wheaten  "foods"  are 
difficult  to  prepare  free  from  lumps;  to  avoid  these  remember  the 
following  rules: 

Water  must  be  at  a  bubbling,  frothing  heat. 

"Food  must  be  added  to  water  in  very  small  quantities,  and 
each  addition  must  be  thoroughly  absorbed  before  adding  more 
of  the  'food'." 

Eggs,  New  York  Style — Boil  six  eggs  one-half  hour,  drop  into 
cold  water,  shell  and  quarter.  Place  in  buttered  baking-dish  hold- 
ing about  three  pints.     Prepare  a  white  sauce  as  follows:     Heat 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  149 

one  pint  milk,  melt  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter,  stir  into 
the  butter  two  tablespoons  (rounded)  flour,  add  one-quarter  of 
the  hot  milk  and  stir  vigorously  till  the  mixture  is  a  smooth 
paste.  The  remainder  of  the  milk  may  be  added  at  three  separate 
times,  stirring  in  each  addition  till  it  is  smoothly  blended.  Season 
with  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoon  white  pep- 
per. Chop  two  large  cold  boiled  seasoned  onions;  stir  onions 
into  the  sauce  and  pour  over  the  eggs.  Sprinkle  over  the  top 
one-half  cup  cracker  crumbs,  moistened  with  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  add  two  tablespoons  grated  cheese  for  a  top  layer 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  until 
crumbs  and  cheese  are  slightly  brown. 

Sweet  Muffins — One-half  cup  butter  rubbed  to  a  cream.  One- 
half  cup  sugar  stirred  into  the  butter.  Add  two  well-beaten  eggs. 
Stir  and  mix  thoroughly.  Add  one  cup  sweet  milk  and  three  and 
three-quarter  cups  winter  wheat  flour.  Three  rounded  teaspoons 
baking  powder  should  be  sifted  into  the  flour  after  measuring, 
and  the  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  together  into  the  muffin 
mixture.    Bake  in  gem  pans  about  twenty-five  minutes. 

Banked  Salmon — Place  a  can  of  salmon  after  opening  in  hot 
water.  Let  it  remain  until  heated  through.  Peel  and  quarter 
about  six  large  potatoes.  When  boiled,  add  one  tablespoon  butter, 
one  tablespoon  salt,  half  a  saltspoon  pepper  and  milk  or  cream  to 
moisten.  Mash  and  beat  with  a  fork  till  light  and  creamy.  While 
potatoes  are  boiling  prepare  a  white  sauce  like  that  given  above 
for  the  eggs.  Drain  the  liquor  from  the  salmon,  break  it  into 
flakes  with  a  fork  and  arrange  in  the  middle  of  a  platter.  Heap 
the  hot  mashed  potatoes  around  the  salmon  and  pour  over  all 
the  white  sauce.    Garnish  edges  of  platter  with  bits  of  parsley. 

Stewed  Dried  Pears — One-half  pound  of  pears.  Wash  well 
and  separate  carefully.  Soak  over  night  in  three  pints  of  clear, 
soft  water.  In  the  morning  place  them  on  to  boil  in  this  same 
water.  Boil  till  pears  are  tender.  Lift  them  out  carefully  and 
add  to  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled  one-half  cup  of  gran- 
ulated sugar.  Cook  to  a  thick,  rich  sirup.  Pour  over  pears  and 
serve  when  cold.  All  dried  fruits  are  very  good  when  cooked  in 
this  way. 

Sponge  Gingerbread — One  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  dark,  strong 
molasses,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  one  tablespoon  ginger,  two  heaping  cups  winter 
wheat  flour  (if  patent  flour  is  used  make  the  cups  even).  Warm 
butter,  molasses  and  ginger  together,  add  milk,  flour,  eggs  and 
soda  (also  a  pinch  of  salt)  and  bake  immediately. 

Puree  of  Chicken  and  Rice — One  cup  cold  chicken  cut  in  small 
pieces,  one  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  well  mashed;  place  chicken  in  a 
soup  kettle,  with  a  tablespoonful  butter  or  drippings,  and  fry 
till  brown;  sift  in  two  tablespoonfuls  dry  flour;  when  flour  is 
brown  add  rice  and  two  quarts  boiling  water;  season  with  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  salt  and  four  pepper  corns  and  one-half  salt- 
spoon  pepper.    Cook  slowly  several  hours  until  meat  and  rice 


150  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

are  tender  enough  to  rub  through  a  colander;  return  pulp  to 
kettle;  if  thicker  than  thick  cream  add  more  boiling  water. 
Serve  hot. 

Roast  from  the  Round — A  slice  three  inches  thick  from  the 
best  part  of  the  top  of  the  round;  dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and 
flour;  place  in  a  hot  oven  with  one-half  pint  hot  water  and  one 
tablespoonful  butter  or  good  drippings  in  the  pan;  baste  often 
and  bake  about  an  hour,  as  this  roast  is  not  good  if  too  well  done. 

Gravy — Pour  into  the  pan,  after  removing  the  roast,  one  pint 
hot  water  or  stock;  melt  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoonful  butter  or 
good  drippings,  and  when  browned  stir  in  two  heaping  tablespoon- 
fus  flour;  stir  until  the  flour  is  brown  and  well  mixed  with  the 
butter;  add,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  hot  liquid  from  the  roasting- 
pan  and  stir  in  till  it  is  smooth  and  thick;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.     Strain  and  serve. 

Browned  Potatoes — Pare  six  or  eight  potatoes  of  medium  size. 
Leave  them  whole  and  place  in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Boil  until 
almost  done.  Drain  and  when  they  are  quite  dry  drop  into  hot 
fat  and  brown  like  doughnuts.  Serve  at  once,  well  sprinkled  with 
salt.  This  is  an  excellent  way  to  prepare  potatoes  so  late  in  the 
season. 

Blanc  Mange — One  quart  of  milk  (reserving  three  tablespoons 
with  which  to  mix  three  tablespoons  corn  starch)  with  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  five  tablespoons  sugar.  When  milk  is  hot  pour  in  the 
mixed  corn  starch  and- stir  until  it  is  a  thick  batter.  Pour  this 
on  the  well  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs  and  stir  carefully.  Pour 
into  frappe  glasses,  only  enough  to  half  fill  them.  Serve  when 
cold  with  the  caramel  sauce. 

Caramel  Sauce — Mix  two  cups  of  sugar  with  two  tablespoons 
of  water  in  a  saucepan.  Stir  till  it  becomes  a  dark  brown  color. 
Add  two  cups  of  boiling  water  cautiously  as  it  hisses  and  sputters. 
Cook  gently  for  ten  minutes  longer.  Let  it  cool  and  serve  in  a 
small  pitcher,  pouring  it  over  the  blanc  mange  as  it  is  in  the 
little  frappe  cups.  Mary  Demlng. 

No.  141  Scoville  Avenue,  Oak  Park,  111. 


TUESDAY,  APRIL  THE  SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Wheat  griddle  cakes. 

Baked  eggs.  Crullers. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Chipped  beef.  Potato  dice. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Cornstarch  puffs.  Marmalade. 

Tea. 


T'H'E    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  151 

DINNER. 

Potato  soup. 
*      Veal  potpie.  Spinach. 

Mock  snow  pudding. 
Coffee. 


Wheat  Griddle  Cakes— One  pint  of  flour,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  pint  of  sour  milk, 
scant  measure,  and  two  eggs.  Crush,  measure  and  sift  the  soda 
and  salt  in  the  flour;  mix  thoroughly;  add  the  milk,  and  beat 
well,  then  the  beaten  yolks,  and  lastly  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Bake  on  a  hot,  well-greased  griddle.  This  recipe  can 
be  varied  by  using  one-half  or  one-third  fine  cornmeal  or  graham 
flour. 

Crullers — One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  rich  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  flour  mixed 
with  tv/o  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  small  level  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt;  use  flour  enough  to  roll;  cut  in  two-inch  squares, 
and  cut  each  square  in  "slashes";  fry  in  hot  lard.  When  cool 
roll  in  fine  sugar.  This  recipe  will  make  enough  for  five  or  six 
breakfasts. 

Chipped  Beef — Take  one-half  pound  of  finely  shaved  dried 
beef;  put  in  a  saucepan  land  add  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it. 
When  scalding  hot  (boiling  toughens  it)  drain  off  the  water,  add 
One  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a  slight  sprinkling  of  pep- 
per; let  it  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes.  When  ready  to  serve 
add  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  This  will  be  found  a 
pleasant  change  from  the  thickened  gravy  .with  which  it  is  usually 
served. 

Potato  Dice — Pare  and  cut  into  dice-shape  five  medium-size 
potatoes;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  hot  water  to  cover, 
and  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt;  cook  till  tender,  drain  and  pour 
over  them  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  serve 
at  once. 

Cornstarch  Puffs — One  cupful  of  pulverized  sugar,  one-half 
cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  cornstarch,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  four  eggs.  Rub  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs; 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff  and  add  alternately  with  the 
cornstarch  and  baking  powder  mixed.  Bake  in  well-greased  gem 
tins,  which  should  be  heated  before  putting  the  batter  in.  Bake 
in  a  rather  quick  oven.  When  cool  frost.  This  recipe  will  make 
twenty  puffs,  and  they  will  keep  several  days. 

Veal  Potpie — Three  pounds  of  veal,  rinse  thoroughly,  put  in 
kettle  and  cover  with  boiling  water;  add  one  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises;  then  add  one  large 
spoonful  of  butter  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper;  when  nearly  done 
lay  six  or  eight  medium-size  pared  potatoes  on  the  meat;  make 
a  batter  of  one  and  a  half  pints  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 


152  THE    CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK 

ing  powder,  a  saltspoon  of  salt  and  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk; 
drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  either  on  the  meat  or  in  the  steamer 
placed  over  the  kettle.  Do  not  remove  the  cover  for  thirty  min- 
utes, for  if  the  air  strikes  them  they  will  "fall."  Take  up  the 
meat,  potatoes  and  "dumplings"  on  a  large  platter;  wet  two 
tablespoons  of  flour  in  a  little  cold  water,  rub  till  smooth  and  stir 
in  the  broth;  add  another  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  cook  till 
it  thickens,  then  pour  over  the  potpie. 

Mock  Snow  Pudding — Three  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  wet 
with  enough  cold  water  to  dissolve  it  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  pour 
over  this  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  cook  five  minutes,  stirring 
constantly;  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to*a  stiff  froth. 
Wet  a  mold  in  cold  water  and  pour  the  mixture  in.  Make  a  cus- 
tard of  the  yolks  of  the  three  eggs,  one-half  a  cupful  of  sugar  and 
one  cupful  of  milk;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  but  do  not  allow  it  to 
curdle;  flavor.  When  ready  to  serve  turn  the  white  part  out 
on  an  ice-cream  platter  or  flat  dish  and  pour  the  custard  around  it. 

Elkhart,  Ind.  Mrs.  Eugenie  K.  Meader. 


WEDNESDAY,  APRIL  THE  SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Quaker  oats,  sugar  and  cream. 

Mutton  chops,  grilled. 

Creamed  potatoes.  Hot  corn  bread. 

Coffee. 


•       LUNCHEON. 

Oyster  patties.  Cucumber  pickles. 

Bread  and  butter.  Apple  jelly. 

Cookies  of  1812.  Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Boiled  fresh  cod  with  sauce. 

Boiled  potatoes.  Rice  cakes. 

Cheese  salad.  Crackers. 

Silver  pie. 


Mutton  Chops,  Grilled — One  and  one-quarter  pounds  of  chops. 
Cut  the  chops  an  inch  thick,  either  from  the  loin  or  the  best  end 
of  the  neck;  if  from  the  latter,  the  bones  must  be  shortened  a 
little.  Remove  all  superfluous  fat,  and  season  each  chop  by  press- 
ing in  a  mixture  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
pepper,  and  powdered  herbs,  if  you  like  them;  then  dip  each 
chop  in  warmed  butter  or  dripping  and  broil  on  a  gridiron  over 
a  clear  fire  from  eight  to  ten  minutes,  according  to  thickness. 
During  the  process  of  cooking  the  chops  require  to  be  frequently 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  153 

turned  in  order  that  they  may  be  done  equally,  and  for  this  pur- 
pose use  a  pair  of  steak  tongs.  By  inserting  any  sort  of  a  sharp 
instrument  into  meat  that  is  cooking  we  provide  a  ready  means 
of  escape  for  the  juices  which  the  meat  contains,  and  thus  being 
deprived  of  its  best  element  it  becomes  dry  and  tasteless.  When 
cooked,  place  each  chop,  just  slightly  overlapping  its  neighbor, 
upon  a  hot  dish;  pour  over  each  a  dessertspoonful  of  hot  butter 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  catchup  and  serve  immediately. 

Creamed  Potatoes — At  this  time  of  year  one  is  apt  to  have 
a  quantity  of  small-sized  potatoes,  and  here  is  a  good  way  in 
which  to  dispose  of  some  of  them:  Take  two  dozen  small  po- 
tatoes, allow  one  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Moisten  the  cornstarch  in  a  half-cupful  of  the  milk, 
place  the  rest  of  the  milk  on  the  fire,  and  when  scalding  hot  add 
the  cornstarch  mixture.  Cook  until  again  scalding  hot,  set  on 
the  back  of  the  fire  and  add  the  butter  and  salt.  Have  the  po- 
tatoes, peeled  perfectly  with  no  speck  of  the  thin  skin  to  be  seen, 
boiled  until  tender  and  drained  and  sprinkled  with  salt.  Place 
these  in  the  serving  dish,  pour  over  them  the  cream  dressing, 
dust  slightly  with  pepper  and  serve  at  once. 

Hot  Corn-Bread — One-half  pint  of  buttermilk,  one-half  pint 
of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  eggs,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornmeal,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  the  butter- 
milk, sweet  milk  and  soda  together,  and  when  the  soda  is  thor- 
oughly dissolved  pour  these  over  the  beaten  eggs.  Add  the  corn- 
meal  and  beat  well.  Place  the  pan  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked 
on  the  stove,  with  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard  in  it.  As  soon 
as  this  is  melted  evenly  and  shaken  upon  the  sides,  pour  in  the 
batter,  put  into  a  quick  oven  and  bake  a  delicate  brown. 

Oyster  Patties — Make  a  crust  of  one  cup  of  flour,  one-half  cup 
of  lard,  one-half  cup  of  very  cold  water,  one-half  saltspoonful  of 
salt.  Mix  lightly  together,  roll  out  and  line  small  patty-pans  with 
it.  Take  one-half  pint  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  the  same 
of  butter.  Dissolve  the  flour  in  a  little  of  the  milk,  and  add  to  the 
rest  of  the  milk,  which  has  first  been  heated.  Let  this  become 
boiling  hot,  and  then  stir  in  a  few  gratings  of  nutmeg  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Lastly,  add  one-half  pint  of  oys- 
ters, salt,  and  let  it  boil  up  once.  Then  put  four  oysters 
and  some  of  the  gravy  into  each  patty-pan,  cover  with  crust  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cookies  of  1812 — One  pint  of  sugar,  one  teacup  of  butter,  four 
eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  nutmeg, 
one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one  pint  of  flour.  Roll  the 
sugar  (granulated)  until  quite  fine;  add  the  butter  and  cream 
them.  Stir  in  the  milk  gradually,  and  beat  the  eggs  separately, 
and  then  put  together  and  beat  again.  Add  to  the  mixture  but- 
ter, sugar  and  milk,  and  lastly  the  fiour  and  soda,  which  has  been 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  After  these  have  been  well 
mixed  add  the  nutmeg  and  vanilla.    Beat  all  well  together,  and 


154  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

add  enough  flour  to  handle  well  in  rolling  and  cutting  out.    Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  a  delicate  brown.    These  keep  well. 

Boiled  Fresh  Cod — A  good  recipe  for  cod,  salmon,  shad  or 
any  other  fresh  fish.  Let  the  fish  remain  in  cold  water  slightly 
salted  for  an  hour  before  it  is  time  to  cook  it.  Wrap  it  then  in 
a  clean  towel  that  has  been  well  covered  with  flour.  Fasten  the 
towel  closely  and  put  on  to  boil  for  half  an  hour  in  salted  water. 
Take  it  up  and  put  on  a  heated  platter  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

Fish  Sauce — To  one  teacup  of  milk  add  one  teacup  of  water; 
put  it  on  the  fire  to  scald,  and  when  hot  stir  in  a  tablespoon  of 
flour  previously  wet  with  cold  water.  Add  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  shake  of  pepper  and  a  tablespoon  of 
butter.  Boil  two  eggs  hard,  take  off  the  shells,  slice  and  lay 
over  the  fish.    Then  pour  over  the  sauce  and  serve. 

Rice  Cakes — Moisten  a  large  coffee  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice 
with  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  smooth  paste,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  &  small  half-teaspoonful  of  salt,  an 
even  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  well-beaten  egg.  Make  into  balls 
or  cakes  and  fry  in  hot  lard.    These  are  good  with  hot  meats  also. 

Cheese  Salad — Odd  bits  of  cheese  to  the  amount  of  a  pound, 
grated,  one  hard-boiled  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper, 
one  of  salt,  one  of  white  sugar,  one  of  made  mustard,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  one  of  salad  oil  or  melted  butter.  Rub  the 
yolk  of  the  egg  to  a  paste  with  the  oil  or  butter,  adding  in  order 
the  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  mustard,  and  lastly  the  cheese.  Work 
all  well  together  before  putting  in  the  vinegar.  These  mixtures 
bear  a  marvelous  resemblance  in  taste  to  a  deviled  crab,  and 
make  a  very  good  impromptu  relish  to  eat  with  crackers  and  but- 
ter. This  is  still  better  if  you  can  add  a  cupful  of  cold  minced 
chicken. 

Silver  Pie — Peel  and  grate  one  large  white  potato  into  a  deep 
plate;  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  the  beaten 
white  of  one  egg,  one  teacupful  of  white  sugar  and  one  cup  of 
cold  water.  Stir,  well  together  and  pour  into  a  nice  under-crust 
and  bake.  When  done  have  ready  the  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  half  a  teacupful  of  white  sugar  and  a  few  drops 
of  lemon,  all  thoroughly  beaten.  Put  this  mixture  on  the  top 
of  the  pie  evenly  and  return  to  the  oven  to  stiffen  a  few  mo- 
ments. When  sent  to  the  table  just  cold  lay  a  teaspoonful  of 
jelly  on  the  center  of  each  piece,  to  ornament,  if  you  wish. 

Miss  Helen  Brown. 

Hudson,  Mich. 


THURSDAY,  APRIL  THE  EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Green  gages   (canned). 

Velvet  mush,  with  cream  and  sugar. 

German  omelet.  Julienne  potatoes. 

German  coffee  cake.  Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  155 

LUNCHEON. 

Jellied  whitefish.  Radishes. 

Rice  bread.  Ginger  ale. 

Gentleman's  favorite  cake. 

Orange  jelly. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Boneless  birds.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Succotash.  Watermelon  pickles. 

Lemon  pie.  Tea. 


Velvet  Mush — Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  porce- 
lain kettle;  cook  in  this  two  coffeecupfuls  of  wheat  flour  until 
it  slips  the  spoon  and  the  kettle;  have  five  cups  of  milk  ready 
boiled  and  add  to  the  flour,  one  cupful  at  a  time.  Let  boil  be- 
tween each  cupful.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  stir  thoroughly 
and  serve. 

German  Omelet — Five  eggs,  five  tablespoonfuls  cream  or  rich 
milk,  six  thin  slices  of  bacon,  one-half  teaspoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley.  Beat  the  eggs  and  cream  together  and  put  in  the  pars- 
ley. Let  the  bacon  simmer  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  Put  a 
piece  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan,  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut;  let 
brown;  then  pour  in  a  thin  layer  of  the  egg  batter;  now  lay  on 
the  bacon  and  pour  in  remainder  of  batter.  Must  be  fried  over 
slow  hard-coal  fire.  When  it  begins  to  stiffen  then  turn,  which 
can  be  done  successfully  this  way:  Put  tiny  pieces  of  butter 
on  a  lid  which  fits  the  spider;  press  lid  against  spider  and  turn; 
then  slide  back  in  the  pan  and  brown  on  the  other  side. 

German  Coffee  Cake — Set  a  sponge  with  one  pint  lukewarm 
milk,  a  two-cent  cake  of  yeast,  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  half  a  pound  of  flour.  Let  rise  by 
the  stove  for  two  hours,  then  stir  in  half  cup  of  melted 
butter,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  finely  cut  citron, 
one  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs.  Knead  in  enough  fiour  to  make  a 
stiff  dough — about  one  pound — then  part  the  dough  in  three  even 
pieces,  roll  them  out  separately,  long  and  thin,  then  braid  to- 
gether and  form  round  in  the  pan.  Let  rise  again  and  bake  a 
good  half-hour.     Frost.     Sufiicient  for  two  meals. 

Gentleman's  Favorite  Cake — Beat  six  egg  yolks  with  half- 
cup  butter  and  two  cups  sugar;  then  add  two  cups  water  with 
half  a  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  it,  tv/o  cups  of  flour  with  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  last  the  whipped  whites.  Bake 
in  layers.  Filling:  One  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  grated  ap- 
ples, juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon;  stir  over  the  fire  till 
it  boils  and  gets  thick;  let  cool  and  put  between  layers.  Sh^ke 
powdered  sugar  over  cake  when  served. 

Jellied  Whitefish — Two  pounds  whitefish  boiled  in  one  and 
three-quarters  quarts  of  water  seasoned  with  two  teaspoonfuls 


156  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

salt,  one  gill  vinegar,  four  bay  leaves,  one  tablespoonful  of  whole 
pepper  and  cloves.  When  tender  take  the  fish  out,  strain  the 
soup  and  return  to  the  fire,  with  the  white  of  an  egg  to  clear  it; 
remove  from  fire;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  two  ounces  of 
gelatine,  first  dissolved  in  water.  Then  strain  again,  and  when 
cool,  but  not  cold,  pour  over  the  fish.  Turn  on  a  platter  when 
served  and  garnish  with  parsley.    Enough  for  two  meals. 

Rice  Bread — Quarter  pound  of  rice,  two  pounds  of  flour,  one- 
half  tablespoonful  salt,  one  cake  of  yeast,  one  pint  lukewarm 
water.  Sew  rice  in  a  sack,  but  leave  sufficient  room  to  let  it  swell; 
put  the  sack  in  boiling  water  and  let  cook  for  three  hours.  Dis- 
solve yeast  and  salt  in  water,  mix  with  rice  and  knead  in  two 
pounds  of  flour.  Let  rise,  then  put  in  bread  pans  and  treat  as 
common  wheat  bread.     Very  healthy. 

Ginger  Ale — One  and  three-quarters  pounds  sugar,  one  and 
one-half  ounces  whole  ginger,  two  and  one-half  ounces  cream 
tartar,  one  lemon  sliced,  seven  quarts  boiling  water,  2-cents  yeast. 
Put  sugar  and  spices  in  a  stone  jar,  pour  over  the  boiling  water 
and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours  in  a  cool  place  covered.  Then 
put  yeast  in,  dissolve  in  lukewarm  water,  and  let  stand  again 
twenty-four  hours,  then  fill  in  bottles,  cork  well,  and  after  three 
days  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Orange  Jelly — Dissolve  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  half  a  pint 
of  water,  mix  in  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  three  cups  of  sugar, 
the  juice  of  three  lemons.  When  well  dissolved,  squeeze  in  the 
juice  from  eight  oranges,  then  strain  and  put  away  to  cool. 
Meant  for  two  desserts. 

Boneless  Birds — For  this  use  round  steak  sliced  thin.  Cut 
in  pieces  about  three  to  four  inches  wide  and  five  to  six  inches 
long.  Sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  on  one  side;  put  in  a  narrow 
piece  of  bacon,  two  inches  long  and  one-half  an  inch  wide,  a 
piece  of  carrot  same  size;  now  roll  the  meat  like  a  thick  sausage, 
get  the  shape  of  a  bird  without  head  or  feet  as  much  as  you  can, 
and  wind  around  with  string,  then  rub  with  allspice,  salt  and 
pepper  and  roll  in  fiour.  Brown  well  in  butter  in  which  you  have 
grated  an  onion,  then  add  stock  or  boiling  water  until  covered, 
cook  slowly  for  two  hours,  then  take  out  the  birds,  strain  gravy 
and  thicken  with  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  made  smooth  in  a  little 
water,  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Should  the  stock  or  water  steam  away 
while  cooking  more  must  be  added — but  always  boiling  hot. 

Succotash — Half  a  pound  of  lima  beans  soaked  six  hours; 
cook  till  tender;  add  one  can  of  corn,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut;  bring  to  boil  and  serve. 

Mrs.  John  J.  Planett. 

No.  59  West  41st  Street,  Chicago. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  157 

FRIDAY,  APRIL  THE  NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 
Quaker  oats,  cream  and  sugar. 
Creara  hash.  Sweet  potato  croquettes. 

Bread  puffs.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Veal   loaf.  Sliced   tomatoes. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Swedish  cake.  Iced  apples. 

Ceylon  tea. 


DINNER. 

Turtle  bean  soup. 

Turbot  a  la  creme.  Steamed  potatoes. 

Parsnips  served  in  cream.  Pickles. 

White  bread. 

Simple  fruit  pudding. 

Coffee  or  tea. 


Cream  Hash — Chop  mutton,  veal  or  beef  as  fine  as  for  hash 
and  as  much  as  is  needed.  Fry  for  a  few  minutes  in  salt  pork  drip- 
pings. Take  from  the  fire  and  in  the  same  frying-pan  make  a 
rich  cream  gravy,  if  cream  is  a  possibility;  if  not,  use  milk, 
thickening  it  with  cornstarch  and  adding  a  generous  lump  of 
butter.  Pour  half  of  the  gravy  into  a  pan  over  the  fire,  thin  it 
with  hot  water,  dip  in  it  slices  of  well-browned  toast,  lay  the 
moistened  toast  upon  a  flat  dish  and  set  in  a  warm  place.  Into 
the  thick  cream  gravy  put  the  minced  meat,  cook  it  five  minutes, 
then  spread  it  upon  the  toast.    Delicious. 

Sweet  Potato  Croquettes — For  eight  croquettes  use  one-half 
cupful  hot  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful 
salt,  two  eggs,  enough  boiled  sweet  potato  to  make  a  pint;  bread 
crumbs.  When  the  potatoes  have  been  mashed  smooth  and  light, 
beat  into  them  the  hot  milk,  and  then  the  salt  and  butter;  next 
beat  one  egg  until  light,  and  beat  this  into  the  mixture,  which 
should  be  shaped  into  croquettes;  beat  the  second  egg  in  a  soup 
plate;  cover  croquettes  with  egg,  and  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs; 
fry  in  fat  till  they  turn  brown.     Serve  at  once. 

Bread  Puffs — If  the  wheat  bread  is  light  enough  at  breakfast 
time,  have  ready  some  hot  lard;  pull  up  some  of  the  dough  and 
cut  in  pieces  two  inches  in  length  and  drop  in  the  hot  fat  and  fry 
like  doughnuts.    To  be  eaten  as  biscuits  or  with  sauce. 

Swedish  Cake — Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter,  slowly  add  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
the  beaten  whites.    Sift  in  one  heaping  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoon- 


158       THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

ful  baking  powder  and  one  tablespoonful  cinnamon.    Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  in  patty  tins. 

Iced  Apples — Pare  and  core  one  dozen  large  apples,  fill  with 
sugar  and  a  little  butter  and  nutmeg,  bake  until  nearly  done, 
let  cool,  and  remove  to  another  plate,  if  it  can  be  done  without 
breaking  them  (if  not,  pour  off  the  juice).  Ice  tops  and  sides 
with  caking-ice  and  brown  lightly.    Serve  with  cream. 

Turtle  Bean  Soup — Soak  one  pint  of  black  beans  over  night, 
then  put  them  into  three  quarts  of  water  with  beef  bones  or  a 
small  piece  of  lean  salt  pork;  boil  three  or  four  hours,  strain, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  cloves  and  lemon  juice.  Put  in  a  few 
slices  of  lemon,  and  if  wished  add  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 
Serve  with  toasted  bread  cut  into  dice  and  placed  in  the  tureen. 

Simple  Fruit  Pudding — Stew  currants  or  any  small  fruits, 
fresh  or  dried,  with  sugar  to  taste,  and  pour  hot  over  thin  slices 
of  bakers'  bread  with  crust  cut  off,  making  alternate  layers  Of  fruit 
and  bread  and  leaving  a  thick  layer  of  fruit  for  the  last.  Put 
on  top  a  plate  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  when  cool  set 
on  ice.     Serve  with  sifted  sugar  or  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Miss  Idelle  Jennings. 

Box  433,  Monroe,  Wis. 


SATURDAY,  APRIL  THE  TENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Wheatall  with  cream. 

Rissoles.  Potatoes  fried. 

Hot  cross  buns.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Escalloped  oysters.  Chile  sauce. 

Bread  and  butter.  Fruit  salad. 

Chocolat  Menier. 


DINNER. 

Mock  bisque. 

Roast  mutton.  Roast  potatoes. 

French  peas.  Lettuce  salad. 

Orange  pudding.  Tea. 


Rissoles— Mince  one  pound  of  beef,  boiled  or  roasted;  add 
two  onions  finely  chopped.  Grate  in  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon 
and  four  ounces  of  bread,  season  plentifully  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Thoroughly  mix,  then  stir  in  one  or  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Form 
the  mixture  into  balls,  dip  in  egg  and  sprinkle  with  crust  of 
bread  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  until  a  golden  shade. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  159 

Hot  Cross  Buns — Rub  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  two 
pounds  of  flour  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Into  a  glass  of  fresh 
yeast  stir  a  pint  of  warm  milk  and  gradually  stir  this  into  the 
flour  till  it  forms  a  light  batter.  Cover  over  and  allow  it  to  rise, 
then  work  into  it  by  means  of  a  wooden  spoon  half  a  pound  of 
sugar,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  one  egg 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  allspice.  Knead  well,  cover  again  and 
allow  it  to  stand  until  perfectly  spongy.  Then  knead  into  buns, 
cut  a  cross  on  top,  let  rise  until  light,  cover  with  clarified  sugar 
and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Escalloped  Oysters — One  quart  of  oysters  and  one  quart 
cracker  crumbs;  season  the  crumbs  with  a  pinch  of  pepper  and 
one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  dip  the  oysters  therein.  Add 
one  and  a  half  pints  of  milk  and  stir  the  whole  together  with 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  butter;  strew  a  little  powdered  cracker  and 
bits  of  butter  over  the  top.     Bake  an  hour.    - 

Orange  Pudding — One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  rolled 
crackers,  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  orange, 
grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice,  one  quart  of  milk.  Bake 
like  custard  and  serve  when  cold.  Mrs.  Mary  Hill. 

No.  6744  Calumet  Avenue,  Chicago, 


SUNDAY,  APRIL  THE  ELEVENTH. 


AN  EASTER  MENU. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 

Wheatall,  sugar  and  cream. 

Perfection  omelet.  Baked  potatoes. 

Radishes. 

Rice  waffles.  Maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


DINNER. 

Bouillon  en  tasse. 

Chicken  pie.  Cranberry  jelly. 

Oyster  plant  croquettes.  Potato  balls. 

Easter  trifle. 

Clover  club  cheese.  Salted   wafers. 

^  Coffee. 


LATE  LUNCHEON. 

Salmon  salad. 

Bread  and  butter  sandwiches. 

Easter  cake.  Sliced  oranges. 

Vienna  chocolate. 


160  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Perfection  Omelet — Separate  yolks  and  whites  of  five  eggs. 
Beat  yolks  very  light,  add  one  small  half-teaspoonful  salt,  one- 
sixth  teaspoonful  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  parsley  chopped  very 
fine,  two  tablespoonfuls  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  finely  chopped 
cold  ham  and  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  so  stiff  you  can 
turn  the  bowl  without  their  slipping.  Pour  mixture  in  well- 
buttered,  hot  frying-pan.  Allow  it  to  remain  on  top  of  stove  one 
minute,  then  cover  and  place  in  hot  oven  for  four  minutes.  Re- 
move the  cover,  fold  omelet  over  with  cake  turner  and  serve 
immediately  on  hot  platter  garnished  with  parsley. 

Rice  Waflles — One-half  cup  of  cornmeal  and  one-half  cup  of 
flour  sifted  with  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt.  Add  one  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and  two  eggs  thoroughly 
beaten.  Beat  the  mixture  well  before  baking  and  see  that  your 
waffle-irons  are  hot  and  well  greased. 

Bouillon — This,  as  well  as  the  chicken  pie  and  the  Easter 
trifle,  should  be  made  on  Saturday.  Two  pounds  of  beef  from 
the  middle  of  the  round,  a  small  beef-bone,  two  quarts  cold  water, 
one  teaspoonful  salt,  four  peppercorns,  four  cloves,  one  table- 
spoonful  chopped  parsley,  a  slice  of  onion  and  half  a  carrot. 
Wipe  and  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  add  the  water  and  heat 
slowly;  when  near  the  boiling  point  skim  it,  taking  care  the  scum 
does  not  break.  After  the  scum  is  off  throw  in  a  wine  glass  of 
cold  water;  when  it  is  once  again  near  boiling  skim  again;  re- 
peat the  cold  water  and  skimming  twice,  then  add  the  seasoning 
and  let  boil  slowly  for  four  hours.  It  will  boil  down  to  three 
pints;  strain  and  set  aside.  When  ready  for  use  remove  the  fat 
from  top,  heat  to  boiling  point  and  serve  in  cups.  The  quantity 
is  sufficient  for  two  meals. 

Chicken  Pie — Put  the  neck,  gizzard  and  heart  of  a  chicken  in 
a  pint  of  cold  water  with  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  slice  of  onion 
and  small  piece  of  carrot.  Let  them  stew  slowly  until  there  is 
not  more  than  half  a  cup  of  liquid,  which  strain  and  put  aside. 
Cut  half  a  pound  of  veal  cutlet  into  small  pieces  and  lay  on  the 
bottom  of  a  two-quart  baking  dish;  sprinkle  over  it  a  scant  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  half  as  much  pepper;  shave  sweet  salt  pork 
and  add  a  thin  layer  of  that;  cut  the  chicken  into  small  joints, 
sprinkling  each  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  it  in,  piling  always 
toward  the  center.  Then  drop  into  the  pan  wherever  there  is  a 
chink  forcemeat  balls  made  in  this  way:  Into  a  cup  of  fine  bread 
crumbs,  mixed  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
cut  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  moisten  with  an  egg 
mixed  with  a  little  cold  water;  add  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  half 
the  quantity  of  pepper  and  make  into  little  round  balls.  For  puff 
paste  for  crust,  chop  together  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
mix  with  scant  cup  of  cold  water,  roll  out  into  crust  half  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  strips  two  inches  broad,  wet  the  edges  of  the  dish  and 
lay  the  strips  around.  Lay  on  the  paste  for  top  crust,  pressing  it 
to  the  outer  strips;   trim  round  with  sharp  knife,  make  good- 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  161 

sized  hole  in  center,  ornament  with  twisted  paste;  brush  all  over 
with  white  of  egg  (not  the  edges,  or  they  will  not  rise)  and  bake 
an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  steady  oven.  Before  it  is  cold  pour  the 
gravy  made  from  giblets  through  the  hole  in  the  top,  using  a 
funnel  for  the  purpose.  This  pie  is  excellent  cold,  but  if  you  pre- 
fer it  hot,  place  it  in  moderate  oven  for  a  half  hour,  laying  a 
paper  over  to  protect  crust.  By  the  addition  of  a  half  pint  of 
oysters  "plumped"  in  their  liquor  the  remainder  of  the  pie  will 
serve  for  a  second  day's  dinner. 

Oyster-Plant  Croquettes — Wash,  scrape  and  boil  one  bunch  of 
oyster  plant  until  tender,  rub  through  a  colander,  mix  into  a 
smooth  paste  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  cream,  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  half  the  quantity  of  pepper,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice.  When  the  paste  is  cold,  form  into  small  rolls,  dip 
in  beaten  egg  and  grated  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat  till  crisp 
and  brown. 

Easter  Trifles — This  dainty  dish  is  not  only  delicious  to  eat, 
but  charming  to  look  at,  representing  a  nest  with  Easter  eggs. 
Soak  a  half-box  of  Knox's  gelatine  in  a  half-cup  of  cold  water 
a  half-hour.  Boil  two  cups  of  milk  and  add  to  the  gelatine,  with 
two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Allow  it  to  cool  until  it  thickens,  then  add  a  cup  of  cream, 
whipped  very  stiff.  Wash  six  eggs,  make  a  hole  inside  of  shell 
near  the  large  end,  pour  out  the  whites  into  a  bowl,  break  up 
the  yolks  with  a  skewer  and  pour  into  another  bowl  ready  to  be 
used  for  cake.  Wash  inside  of  shells  clean  and  drain  them,  set 
them  with  the  hole  up  in  a  box  of  salt  (or  anything  that  will  hold 
them  level),  pour  the  blanc-mange  in  slowly  through  a  funnel 
and  set  in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  Soak  the  other  half-box  of 
gelatine  together  with  half  the  package  of  rose  coloring  matter 
found  in  each  box  in  a  half-cup  of  cold  water  five  minutes;  add 
a  cup  of  sugar  and  pour  over  gelatine  and  sugar  a  cup  of  boiling 
water,  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons  with  sufficient  water  to  make 
a  cup  of  liquid.  When  cool  (not  cold)  pour  into  a  round  glass 
dish  with  a  coffee  cup  inverted  in  center,  set  away  to  harden. 
When  ready  to  serve  remove  the  coffee  cup,  place  small  strips 
of  candied  lemon  peel  on  sides  and  top  of  the  jelly  nest  to  rep- 
resent straws,  then  break  the  egg  shells  carefully  and  place  eggs 
in  the  nest,  adding  a  flake  of  whipped  cream  here  and  there  to 
simulate  feathers. 

Salmon  Salad — Remove  skin,  oil  and  bones  carefully  from  a 
half  can  of  salmon;  squeeze  over  it  juice  of  small  lemon  and  set 
away  to  get  thoroughly  chilled.  When  ready  to  serve  add  as 
much  coarsely  cut  celery  as  fish,  a  dozen  English  walnut  meats 
broken  in  small  pieces,  three  small  cucumber  pickles  finely  cut 
and  a  half  dozen  olives  cut  in  pieces.  Pour  over  a  home-made 
salad  dressing  and  mix  with  silver  fork,  breaking  salmon  as  little 
as  possible. 

Easter  Cake — Cream  together  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  half  cup 
of  butter,  add  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  a  half  cup  of  milk.  Then 
stir  in  gradually  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  two 

11 


162  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

teaspoonfiils  of  baking  powder.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice 
and  stir  in  lightly  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  very  stiff.  Bake 
in  four  layers  and  fill  with  the  following:  The  grated  rind  of  one 
and  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one- 
half  cupful  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  flour  cooked  over  hot  water  till  it  thickens;  cool 
before  spreading.  Ice  the  top  with  boiled  frosting  and  decorate 
with  rings  of  candied  cherries,  alternating  with  seeded  raisins  and 
small  pieces  of  citron.  Mrs.  G.  A.  Chapman. 

No.  1151  Jackson  boulevard,  Chicago. 


MONDAY,  APRIL  THE  TWELFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheatall  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Bacon  and  eggs.  Dry  toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Potato  salad  with  Frankfurt  sausage. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Steamed  sponge  cake  with  jam: 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Veal,  French  style. 

Browned  mashed  potatoes.  Tomatoes   (canned). 

Suet  fruit  pudding,  cream  sauce. 

Tea. 


Potato  Salad — Boil  six  large  potatoes  with  their  skins  on. 
Peel  while  hot,  cut  into  slices  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick, 
sprinkle  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt  over  them,  also  a  salt- 
spoon  of  pepper,  add  two  or  three  good-sized  onions,  chopped 
fine.  Take  a  good-sized  slice  of  bacon  (about  two  ounces),  cut 
into  small  squares  and  fry  them  a  crisp  and  golden  brown.  Add 
to  this  one-half  cup  of  good  cider  vinegar  and  pour  immediately 
over  the  other  ingredients.  Mix  with  a  salad  fork  and  spoon 
lightly  to  prevent  breaking  the  potatoes.  Three  tablespoons  of 
olive  oil  may  be  substituted  for  bacon  if  preferred.  This  salad 
may  be  served  warm  or  cold.  Put  one  pound  of  Frankfurt  sau- 
sages in  stew  pan,  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover  them,  boil 
briskly  five  minutes.  Put  potato  salad  on  a  platter  and  arrange 
sausage  all  around.  Serve  while  sausage  is  smoking  hot.  Any 
made  mustard  goes  well  with  this. 

Slice  stale  pieces  of  sponge  cake,  lay  them  on  a  cloth  in  a 
steamer,  steam  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  spread  with  any  pre- 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  163 

ferred  jam   as   soon   as  taken  from   the   steamer.     Serve  while 
warm. 

Veal,  French  Style— Get  two  pounds  of  stewing  veal,  a  piece 
of  shank  is  nice,  wash  and  clean  it  carefully;  put  one  good-sized 
tablespoonful  of  half  butter  and  half  dripping  into  your  skillet; 
when  quite  hot  add  your  veal,  cut  into  nice  pieces,  cover  and  let 
brown  slowly;  when  a  golden  brown  on  one  side  turn  each 
piece  and  brown  the  other;  add  two  small  onions  chopped  very 
fine,  one  rounded  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  saltspoon  of  pepper,  stir 
all  until  onions  are  slightly  brown,  then  add  boiling  water  enough 
to  cover  veal;  now  add  two  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  one  bay  leaf, 
let  simmer  slowly  on  back  of  the  stove  one  hour  or  until  veal  can 
be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork.  See  that  the  liquid  doesn't  more 
than  half  boil  away;  if  it  should  add  a  little  more  hot  water..  Just 
before  serving  dissolve  one  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  in  a  little 
cold  water  and  stir  it  in;  let  boil  until  clear  and  serve  at  once. 

Browned  Mashed  Potatoes — Peel  and  boil  six  large  potatoes  in 
"salted  water;  when  done  mash  them  fine,  add  butter  size  of  a 
small  egg,  half  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  beat  thoroughly  with  a 
large  spoon.  Butter  a  dish,  put  in  potatoes  evenly  and  smoothly 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  golden  brown;  this  requires 
about  twenty  minutes. 

Suet  Fruit  Pudding — Chop  one  cup  of  beef  suet  very  fine;  add 
one  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  three 
cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  even  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing soda  should  be  sifted  into  the  flour;  last  of  all,  add  one-half 
cup  seedless  raisins,  one-half  cup  currants  or  any  preferred  dried 
fruit;  steam  three  hours.  This  is  an  infallible  recipe,  sufficient 
for  two  meals  at  least.  Will  keep  as  long  as  you  desire.  Can 
be  steamed  over  and  be  as  good  as  fresh  on  short  notice. 

Cream  Sauce — Mix  one  tablespoon  of  flour  into  one  cup  of 
sugar,  rub  in  butter  size  of  small  egg;  add  one-third  of  a  grated 
nutmeg,  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  boil- 
ing water;  boil  five  minutes;  serve  hot.  Any  preferred  sauce  may 
be  substituted,  Mrs.  L.  Helfrich. 

No.  7128  Paulina  Street,  Chicago. 


TUESDAY,  APRIL  THE  THIRTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Radishes. 
Baked  oatmeal  and  cream. 
Egg  nests  on  toast. 
Indian  waffles.  Cocoa. 


LUNCHEON. 

Pish  and  chives  salad.  Pried  potatoes. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Almond  velvet  cream.  Tea. 


164  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Brown  fricassee  of  sheep's  tongues. 

Horseradish  sauce. 

Steamed  potatoes.  Creamed  cabbage. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Banana  puffs.  Coffee. 


Baked  Oatmeal— The  day  before  using  stir  two  cupfuls  of  oat- 
meal with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  into  four  pints  of  boiling  water; 
boil  five  minutes;  turn  into  an  earthern  dish  and  cover;  set  the 
dish  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water;  place  it  in  a  moderate  oven;  bake 
two  hours.  In  the  morning  again  put  the  dish  of  oatmeal  in  a 
pan  of  boiling  water  and  place  in  oven  for  half  an  hour.  This 
is  the  best  way  of  cooking  this  cereal. 

Egg  Nests  on  Toast — Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  five 
eggs,  keeping  the  yolks  whole.  Beat  the  whites,  with  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  to  a  stiff  froth;  heap  this  froth  onto  five 
small  slices  of  toasted  bread,  which  have  been  buttered  and 
spread  with  five  small  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  ham.  Make  a 
depression  in  the  center  of  each  mound;  drop  the  whole  yolks 
in  the  hollows;  place  the  nests  in  a  moderate  oven  three  minutes; 
serve  on  a  warm  dish. 

Indian  Waffles — One  cupful  each  of  flour  and  Indian  meal, 
two  cupfuls  of  sour  milk,  one  cupful  of  sour  crean\,  half-tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  and  two  eggs.  Have  irons  very  hot;  pour  a  thin  layer  of 
the  batter  into  one-half  of  the  iron;  drop  the  other  half  gently 
upon  the  first,  then  turn  the  iron  over;  brown  the  waffle  on  both 
sides.     These  are  delicious  if  served  hot. 

Fish  and  Chives  Salad — Free  from  bone,  cut  in  half  inch 
squares  two  smoked  whitefish;  cut  in  inch  lengths  one  small 
bunch  chives;  place  in  a  dish  the  fish  and  chives  alternately  with 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  pepper;  pour  two-thirds  cup  of  hot  vine- 
gar over;  serve. 

Almond  Velvet  Cream — Two  pints  milk,  three  eggs,  one-fourth 
box  gelatine,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  ex- 
tract almond.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  one-half  pint  of  milk  one 
hour;  heat  one  pint  of  the  milk;  beat  eggs  and  sugar  together, 
add  one-half  pint  cold  milk;  pour  this  mixture  into  the  boiling 
milk  and  cook  five  minutes,  then  add  the  gelatine  and  extract; 
strain;  pour  into  molds;  serve  cold  with  sweetened  cream. 

Fricassee  of  Sheep's  Tongues — These  can  be  bought  for  2 
cents  each.  Put  five  tongues  in  boiling  water;  simmer  two  hours, 
after  one  hour  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Vs/^hen  cold  rid  them 
of  their  roots;  cut  in  two  lengthwise;  sprinkle  with  a  shake  of 
pepper;  roll  in  fiour;  fry  in  butter  with  two  teaspoonfuls  parsley. 

Horseradish  Sauce — Two  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish, 
one-fourth  tablespoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  vinegar,  one 
tablespoonful  salad  oil,  one  tablespoonful  ground  mustard;  beat 
together. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  "  165 

Banana  Puffs — Mash  two  large  bananas;  add  one  pint  of  flour, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
two  eggs,  enough  milk  to  make  a  batter  as  for  griddle  cakes; 
grease  five  large  cups  with  butter;  fill  them  half  full  with  the 
batter;  set  in  a  steamer  closely  covered  and  steam  one  hour. 
Serve  warm  with  sweetened  cream.  Jessie  de  Forest. 

Janesville,  Wis. 


WEDNESDAY,  APRIL  THE  FOURTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 

Farina,  with  cream. 

Ham  quenelle.  Boiled  eggs. 

Hot  biscuit.  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Fried  oysters  with  lemon. 

Macaroni  croquettes. 

Pickles. 

Lunch  rolls.  Hot  chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Broiled  beefsteak.  Lyonnaise  potato. 

Radishes. 

Cabbage  salad  on  lettuce. 

Apple  compote.  Coffee. 


Ham  Quenelle  (an  excellent  breakfast  dish) — One  cupful  and 
a  half  of  boiled  ham  minced  very  fine  and  a  cupful  and  a  half 
of  potatoes  sliced  thin.  Arrange  the  ham  and  potatoes  in  alter- 
nate layers,  seasoning  the  ham  with  a  pinch  of  pepper.  When 
the  dish  is  full  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  cream  sauce  made  as  follows: 
Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  stir  in  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  add  very  slowly  a  pint  of  rich  milk  and  a 
pinch  of  pepper.  Let  the  same  boil  up  once.  Pour  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  it  over  two  beaten  eggs;  stir  it  in  and  then  add 
the  eggs  to  rest  of  the  sauce.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  bread 
crumbs  over  the  dish  of  ham  and  potatoes  after  adding  the  sauce 
and  set  it  in  a  hot  oven  to  brown  for  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  with 
the  fiakiest  of  biscuit,  the  best  of  coffee,  the  freshest  of  boiled 
eggs  and  you  have  an  ideal  rural  breakfast. 

Fried  Oyster  with  Lemon — Take  forty  large  oysters,  drain 
them  in  a  tea  towel  until  nearly  dry,  dip  each  one  in  seasoned 
cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  drop  in  frying-pan  of  hot  lard,  enough 
to  cover  them,  and  fry  until  a  light  brown.  Serve  on  a  dish 
dotted  with  small  pieces  of  lemon. 

Macaroni  Croquettes — For  luncheon,  macaroni  left  from  yes- 


166  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

terday's  dinner  may  be  made  into  delicious  croquettes,  but  they 
should  be  prepared  the  day  before.  Put  over  the  fire  half  a  pint 
of  milk,  and  when  boiling  hot  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
two  of  grated  cheese  and  two  of  flour  mixed  with  cold  milk. 
This  will  be  sufficient  for  two  pint  bowlfuls  of  cold  minced 
macaroni.  Stir  macaroni  in  same,  season  with  saltspoon  of 
pepper  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
cook  for  a  minute,  and  turn  out  on  a  plate  to  cool.  When  cold 
shape  and  fry  in  butter  until  brown.    Serve  hot. 

Lunch  Rolls — Stir  together  one  pint  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder  and  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  salt.  Work  in 
one  teaspoonful  of  lard  and  add  one-half  pint  of  milk;  mix  to  a 
smooth  dough,  roll  out  to  half-inch  thickness,  cut  into  irregular 
shape  and  fry  in  butter  until  brown.     Serve  hot. 

Hot  Chocolate — Grate  one-quarter  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate; 
add  to  it  one  and  one-fourth  quarts  of  sweet  milk;  let  come  to  a 
boil  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Lyonnaise  Potato — Cut  a  quart  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  into 
dice  a  little  over  an  inch  square;  put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in 
a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is  very  hot  add  a  white  onion  minced 
fine.  Cook  until  soft,  add  the  potatoes,  tossing  them  with  a 
fork  in  the  frying-pan  until  they  are  evenly  colored  a  delicate 
brown.  Sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  half  saltspoon  of  pep- 
per and  a  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley  over  them  and  stir  with 
fork  again.    Serve  at  once  with  steak. 

Cabbage  Salad  on  Lettuce — Take  half  a  head  of  small  cab- 
bage, chop  very  fine;  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  saltspoon  of 
pepper  and  four  tablespoons  of  vinegar;  one  head  of  lettuce,  the 
leaves  washed,  separated  and  dried  in  a  towel.  Place  two  large 
ones  on  each  salad  plate,  put  cabbage  enough  to  look  well  on 
the  lettuce  and  pour  on  each  a  tablespoonful  of  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. 

Apple  Compote — Peel  and  core  seven  good-sized  apples, 
throwing  them  as  you  do  them  into  cold  water  acidulated  with 
lemon  juice;  then  blanch  them  in  the  same  water  till  tender 
enough  to  give  if  pressed  with  the  finger;  then  lift  them  out 
carefully  and  arrange  them  on  the  dish  they  are  to  be  served  on. 
Now  add  loaf  sugar,  one  lump  to  each  apple,  and  either  lemon 
or  vanilla  to  flavor;  boil  all  together  until  thick,  and  pour  it  over 
and  around  the  apples.     Serve  with  or  without  cream. 

Mrs.  Walter  Bailey. 

Marion,  Iowa. 


THURSDAY,  APRIL  THE  FIFTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cracked  wheat  and  cream. 

Omelet.  Buttered  toast. 

Buckwheat  cakes  and  maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  167 

LUNCHEON. 

Anchovy  toast.  Walnut  sandwiches. 

Brown  bread.  Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Boned  calf's  head.  Potato  timbale. 

Creamed  onions. 

Mince  pie.  Tea. 


Anchovy  Toast — Make  fingers  of  nicely  browned  toast,  an 
inch  and  a  half  wide  and  four  or  five  inches  long,  and  not  very 
crisp.  Spread  with  anchovy  butter  while  hot.  Set  them  a  mo- 
ment in  the  oven  and  serve  at  once. 

Walnut  Sandwiches — Half  a  pound  English  walnut  kernels 
cut  in  small  pieces,  covered  with  a  nice  mayonnaise  dressing.  Cut 
bread  in  fancy  shapes,  round,  square,  triangular,  and  spread  with 
the  mixture.    Keep  in  a  cool  place  until  wanted  for  serving. 

Boned  Calf's  Head — Have  the  butcher  remove  the  bare  bones 
without  injuring  the  skin,  and  also  the  center  of  the  ears.  Fill 
the  head  with  a  well-seasoned  forcemeat.  Cover  all  over  with 
thin  slices  of  salt  pork  and  peeled  lemon,  pin  up  in  a  stout  cloth 
and  cook  in  plenty  of  water,  with  soup  vegetables  and  aromatics 
for  three  hours.  Then  lift  the  saucepan  from  the  fire,  let  it  rest 
awhile.  Drain  the  head,  take  off  the  cloth  and  lay  the  brain  at 
one  end  of  the  dish  and  the  tongue  at  the  other,  both  of  these 
having  been  cooked  in  the  stockpot.  Serve  with  ravigot  sauce. 
This  is  made  by  stewing  a  minced  onion  in  a  gill  of  white  wine 
vinegar  and  an  ounce  of  butter,  for  twenty  minutes,  after  which 
add  a  pint  of  veloute  sauce  and  a  handful  of  minced  parsley. 

Creamed  Onions — Peel  one  quart  of  medium  sized  white 
onions,  place  them  in  a  saucepan  and  cover  with  boiling  water. 
Boil  till  nearly  done,  then  add  one  teaspoonful  salt.  After  boil- 
ing them  a  few  minutes  longer  drain  them  in  a  colander.  In 
the  meantime  melt  one  ounce  of  butter,  to  which  add  half  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  and  cook  two  minutes;  add  half  pint 
of  hot  milk,  cook  two  minutes,  season  with  white  pepper  and 
a  sprinkle  of  salt.  Put  the  onions  in  a  hot  dish  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  them. 

Potato  Timbale — Pare  eight  good-sized  potatoes,  cover  them 
with  boiling  water  and  let  them  cook  thirty  minutes.  Drain  the 
water  and  mash  the  potatoes  smooth  and  light.  Add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  two  of  finely-chopped  parsley,  some  salt  and 
pepper,  and  then  gradually  beat  into  them  one  cup  of  hot  milk. 
Stir  hard,  and  at  last  add  three  well-beaten  eggs.  Butter  an 
oval  tin  basin  and  cover  it  thickly  with  fine  crumbs.  Fill  this 
with  the  prepared  potato  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  half  an 
hour.    Let  the  dish  stand  a  few  minutes  after  it  comes  from  the 


168  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

oven,  then  place  a  heated  platter  over  the  top  of  the  basin,  and 
turn  them  over  together.  Press  the  tin  to  loosen  the  sides  and 
lift  it  gently  from  the  timbale.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Siviter. 

115  Shady  Ave.,  Pittsburg,  Pa. 


FRIDAY,  APRIL  THE  SIXTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges  in  halves. 

Boiled  ham.  Creamed  potatoes. 

Fried  mush.  Maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Sliced  cold  tongue.  Saratoga  potatoes. 

Light  rolls.  Baked  apples. 

Warm  gingerbread.  Olives. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Pea  soup. 

Baked  codfish.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Scalloped  corn.  Water-cress. 

Cherry  tapioca  pudding.  Cheese. 

Coffee. 


Fried  Mush — Cut  cold  boiled  mush  into  slices  and  dip  each 
one  in  fine  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  drippings  in  a  skillet.  The 
bread   crumbs  add   a   fine   flavor  to   the  mush. 

Light  Rolls — One  pint  of  sweet  milk  warmed  enough  to  melt 
one  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of 
salt;  stir  in  one  quart  of  flour  when  the  milk  is  lukewarm  and 
one  cake  of  compressed  yeast.  Put  it  into  a  warm  place  to 
raise.  When  light  enough  work  down  and  raise  again,  then 
mold  in  shape,  put  in  pans  and  when  light  rub  the  top  with  white 
of  egg  and  bake. 

Baked  Codfish — One  and  one-half  pounds  of  codfish,  thick 
boneless  slice.  Put  in  a  baking-pan  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  spread  on  the  top.  Put  a  half  cupful  of  hot 
water  in  the  pan  and  place  in  the  oven  to  bake  one-half  hour, 
baste  four  times.  When  the  fish  is  done  serve  on  a  hot  platter 
with  a  gravy  made  from  the  drippings  in  the  pan. 

Scalloped  Corn — Take  a  can  of  clubhouse  corn,  one  cup  of 
bread  crumbs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Put  a  layer  of  corn  in  a  baking 
dish,  then  a  thin  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  a  little  of  the  salt  and 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  169 

butter  until  the  corn  is  all  used.    Let  the  top  be  of  the  crumbs. 
Pour  over  the  milk  and  set  in  oven  to  bake. 

Cherry  Tapioca  Pudding — One  and  one-half  pounds  of  sour 
cherries,  one  cup  of  tapioca,  one  cup  of  sugar.  Cover  the  tapioca 
with  cold  water  and  soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  it  on 
the  fire  with  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Simmer  slowly  until  the 
tapioca  is  perfectly  clear.  Stone  the  cherries,  stir  them  into  the 
boiling  tapioca,  add  the  sugar.  Take  from  the  fire,  turn  into  a 
serving  dish  and  set  away  to  cool.  Serve  very  cold  with  sugar 
and  cream.  Anonymous. 


SATURDAY,  APRIL  THE  SEVENTEENTH. 

BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  bananas, 
Granose  flakes.  Milk  and  sugar.     . 

Curried  eggs. 
German  coffee  cake.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Brown-bread   brewis. 

Scalloped  meat.  Lettuce  salad. 

Thin  bread  and  butter, 

Marshmallow  cake.  Lemonade. 


DINNER. 

Consomme  with  custard  cubes. 

Stuffed  stew  of  beef.  Whipped  potatoes. 

Creamed    cauliflower.  Chowchow. 

Lemon  cream  pie.  Coffee. 


Curried  Eggs — Cook  a  teaspoon  chopped  onion  in  three  table- 
spoons butter  three  minutes  in  a  frying-pan.  Add  one  table- 
spoon flour  and  one  teaspoon  curry  powder.  Stir  until  smooth; 
then  add  cup  stock  and  half  one  of  milk,  saltspoon  salt,  half  one 
of  pepper.  Cook  ten  minutes.  Boil  six  eggs  thirty  minutes, 
throw  into  cold  water;  then  remove  the  shells.  Quarter  the  eggs, 
sprinkle  with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  place  in  saucepan  and 
pour  over  them  the  sauce;  simmer  three  minutes.  Serve  hot  on 
toast.  The  onion  may  be  omitted  and  one-half  tablespoonful  of 
curry  powder  used  instead,  or  both  may  be  used. 

German  Coffee  Cake — Dissolve  a  penny  cake  of  compressed 
yeast  in  a  little  warm  water  with  a  tablespoon  sugar.  Just  warm 
a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  add  a  tablespoon  butter,  the  yeast  and  two 
well-beaten  eggs;  stir  in  flour  for  a  thin  batter,  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  raise.  When  light  stir  in  flour  to  make  stiff  batter. 
When  raised  roll  out  half-inch  thick  on  a  well-floured  molding 


170  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

board;  have  dough  just  stiff  enough  to  handle,  put  in  a  dripping- 
pan  and  when  dough  has  risen  half-way  up  pan  brush  with  an 
egg  well-beaten  and  cover  with  half-cup  flour,  half-cup  dark- 
brown  sugar,  tablespoon  cinnamon  and  one  of  butter,  rubbed 
together.  Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  seven  minutes,  or  until  when 
pressed  with  the  finger  no  impression  will  be  left.  Leave  in  pan 
until  cold.  Not  much  trouble  and  very  nice.  Will  do  for  several 
times. 

Brown-Bread  Brewis — Break  two  cups  dry  brown  bread  and 
half-cup  white  bread  into  inch  pieces;  melt  tablespoon  butter 
in  frying-pan;  put  in  the  bread,  cover  with  two  cups  milk  and 
half-teaspoon  salt.  Simmer  until  bread  is  soft  and  milk  ab- 
sorbed.    Stir  occasionally  to  keep  from  sticking. 

Scalloped  Meat — Chop  quart  cooked  meat  rather  coarse; 
season  with  one  level  teaspoon  salt  and  one-sixth  one  of  pepper. 
Put  two  tablespoons  butter  in  a  skillet;  stir  in  two  and  a  half 
tablespoons  flour  until  brown;  add  a  pint  of  water  or  stock;  put 
half  the  meat,  moistened  with  half  the  gravy,  in  a  dish;  cover 
with  half-pint  grated  bread  crumbs;  add  the  remainder  of  meat, 
cover  with  another  half-pint  crumbs  and  the  remainder  of  the 
gravy,  dot  v/ith  half-tablespoon  butter.  Bake  in  hot  oven  twenty- 
five  minutes.     Serve  with  a  border  of  boiled  rice  or  hominy. 

Marshmallow  Cake — One  egg,  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar, 
tablespoon  butter;  cream  together;  one  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder;  bake  in  four  layers.  Divide  quar- 
ter-pound marshmallows  in  four  parts;  place  one  portion  on 
each  layer;  put  in  oven  for  a  few  minutes  until  they  run  to- 
gether and  place  layers  together.     Enough  for  three  meals. 

Consomme  with  Custard  Cubes — Beat  two  eggs  five  minutes 
with  a  spoon,  add  a  quarter-teaspoon  salt  and  beat  three  minutes 
longer;  put  in  a  buttered  cup,  set  in  a  pan  of  tepid  water,  cover 
with  a  greased  paper  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  half 
an  hour,  or  until  a  knife  comes  out  clean.  When  thoroughly 
cold  turn  out  and  cut  into  cubes;  have  two  quarts  of  consomme 
or  any  clear  soup  heated;  pour  over  the  cubes  in  a  tureen.  Do 
not  put  the  cubes  into  the  soup  while  it  is  on  the  fire. 

Stuffed  Stew  of  Beef — Three  pounds  from  upper  side  of  round, 
make  gashes  two  inches  long  almost  through  it.  Rub  on  both 
sides  with  a  mixture  of  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  pepper,  same  each 
of  nutmeg  and  cloves,  half  one  of  allspice  and  one  of  salt;  put 
remainder  in  the  gashes,  mix  together  one  cup  bread  crumbs, 
one  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  and  one  of  melted  butter.  Stuff 
into  gashes  and  work  with  it  quarter-pound  larding  pork  cut 
into  strips.  Tie  tightly  with  twine,  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with 
this  gravy:  Brown  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  mix  well  with  it  a 
tablespoon  of  fiour,  stir  in  a  quart  of  stock  which  has  been  sea- 
soned with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  let  it  boil,  then  add, 
if  at  hand,  one  tablespoon  each  of  mushroom  catsup,  tomato 
catsup  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  one  onion  and  one  bay  leaf. 
Simmer  gently  three  hours.     Remove  meat,  put  in  baking-pan, 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  171 

pour  over  it  two  tablespoonfuls  gravy,  brown  in  oven  ten  or  fif- 
teen minutes.     Dish  and  strain  gravy  over  it. 

Whipped  Potatoes — After  potatoes  are  mashed  and  seasoned 
beat  until  white  and  creamy  and  pile  lightly  in  a  dish. 

Mrs.  R.  A.  Lonsdale. 

No.  7633  Madison  Avenue,  Chicago,  111. 


SUNDAY,  APRIL  THE  EIGHTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Watercress.  Grits  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Kedgeree.  Potatoes  au  gratin. 

Rice  cakes  with  orange  compote. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Hock.        Spanish  fritters.        Turk's  cap. 
Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Haricot  soup. 

Casserole  of  mock  sweetbreads  with  potato  border. 

Oyster  plant. 

Lettuce  with  French  dressing. 

Delicate  dish. 

Pecans.  Coffee.  Figs. 


Watercress — Pick  carefully  and  throw  into  cold  water  the 
leaves  from  the  stems  of  one  or  two  bunches  of  cress.  Dry  in  a 
towel  and  serve  plain,  or,  if  preferred,  with  a  French  dressing 
made  with  two  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil,  one  of  vinegar,  one  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  half  the  quantity  of  white  pepper  and  a  pinch 
of  cayenne. 

Grits — Soak  over  night  a  coffeecup  of  the  grits,  stir  next  morn- 
ing into  one  quart  of  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boil 
in  double  kettle  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Potatoes  au  Gratin — One  pint  of  cold  boiled  seasoned  potatoes 
cut  into  quarter  of  an  inch  dice.  One  cup  of  white  sauce,  half  a 
cup  of  crumbled  cheese,  the  same  of  cracker  crumbs,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter.  Place  the  potatoes  in  a  shallow  dish, 
suitable  for  serving,  then  add  the  cheese  and  white  sauce.  Cover 
with  the  cracker  crumbs  moistened  with  the  melted  butter.  Bake 
until  the  crumbs  brown. 

White  Sauce — Heat  over  hot  water  one  pint  of  milk.  Stir  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  until  it  melts  and  bubbles; 


172  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

do  not  let  it  brown;  add  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch, 
stir  quickly  until  well  mixed.  Pour  over  this  a  third  of  the  milk; 
stir  until  it  thickens.  Tip  the  saucepan  slightly  to  keep  from 
sticking.  Add  a  third  more  of  the  milk,  stirring  until  perfectly 
smooth.  Be  sure  all  lumps  are  rubbed  out  while  in  this  thick 
state.  Let  it  boil  and  when  smooth  stir  in  balance  of  the  milk, 
with  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 
You  can  vary  the  seasoning  by  using  onion  juice,  hard-boiled  eggs, 
minced  parsley,  celery,  lemon  juice,  mushrooms  or  curry  powder. 
White  sauce  is  not  suitable  for  dark  meats. 

Orange  Compote — Lay  three  oranges  in  water  for  four  hours; 
boil  until  tender.  Cut  in  halves,  take  out  the  pulp  and  remove 
seeds.  Crush  the  pulp  and  pound  the  peel  well.  Mix,  adding 
same  weight  in  sugar;  beat  five  minutes.  If  made  in  quantity  and 
bottled  it  will  keep  a  long  time. 

Hock — Take  a  pound  of  round  steak  and  the  same  of  pork 
chop;  half  a  small  loaf  of  bread.  Chop  together  like  sausage  meat. 
Add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  the  same  of  powdered 
sage,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Make  into  a  loaf  and  bake  like 
bread.    Cut  in  slices.    This  is  sufficient  for  two  or  more  days. 

Spanish  Fritters — Cut  six  French  rolls  into  slices  the  length 
of  a  finger.  Mix  one  egg  with  half-pint  of  milk,  two  large  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  or  half  a  nut- 
meg grated.  Soak  the  bread  in  the  mixture  and  fry  a  light  brown. 
Serve  foam  sauce. 

Turk's  Cap— Mix  one  pint  of  rich  milk  with  seven  well-beaten 
eggs,  half  a  pound  of  fiour  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake 
in  a  cake  tin  and  serve  quickly. 

Haricot  Soup — Trim  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  five  mutton 
cutlets.  Pour  over  them  three  quarts  of  water  and  stew  until 
tender.  Chop  one  carrot,  one  onion,  one  stalk  of  celery,  and  add 
(after  the  stock  has  been  strained)  with  one  cup  of  sauce  universal. 
Cook  until  tender,  then  thicken  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
browned  flour  mixed  with  one  of  butter;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Sauce  Universal — One  pint  of  mushroom  catsup,  one  teaspoon- 
ful each  of  vinegar,  black  pepper,  allspice  and  one  minced  onion. 
Place  in  a  jar  in  water,  heat  thoroughly.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four 
hours.  After  five  days  strain  and  bottle.  It  is  a  great  addition 
to  soups  and  gravies. 

Casserole  of  Mock  Sweetbreads — One  pound  of  uncooked  lean 
veal  cut  into  half-inch  cubes.  Boil  with  one  slice  of  lemon  and 
teaspoonful  of  salt  in  enough  water  to  cover  well.  When  tender 
throw  into  cold  water  to  whiten.  Take  one  cup  of  white  sauce,  a 
saltspoonful  each  of  salt,  celery  salt  and  half  the  quantity  of 
pepper,  with  half  a  cup  of  mushrooms  cut  into  quarters.  Stir  into 
the  veal  with  white  sauce.  Heat  over  hot  water  five  minutes,  or 
until  all  are  hot.  Add  quickly  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and 
one  well-beaten  egg.    Serve  inside  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes. 

Oyster  Plant — Scrape  two  bunches  of  the  plants,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  a  gill  of  vinegar  to  prevent  them  turning  black. 
Cut  into  thin  slices  across  and  cook  in  salted  boiling  water  until 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  173 

tender.  Drain  and  pour  over  enough  white  sauce  to  a  little  more 
than  cover  them. 

Delicate  Dish — Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  currant  jelly  to  a  solid  froth  so  that  it  will  not  fall. 
Serve  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream.  Mrs.  P.  B.  Gehr. 

Postofflce  Box  242,  Riverside,  111. 


MONDAY,  APRIL  THE  NINETEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 
Orange  marmalade. 
Stewed  sheep's  tongues.         Chopped  potatoes. 
Oatmeal  bannocks.         Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Rissoles. 

Boston  brown  bread.      Radishes. 

Chocolate  fruit  cookies.  Milled  cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Egg  dumpling  soup. 

Beef  a  la  mode.        Mashed  potatoes. 

Macaroni  (special).  Spring  onions. 

Surprise  dessert.      Fudges. 

Black  coffee. 


Orange  Marmalade — Peel  four  dozen  oranges,  quarter  and  take 
out  the  seeds  and  inner  skins  as  much  as  possible.  Soak  the  peel- 
ing over  night  in  water  to  cover  with  a  half-cup  of  salt  dissolved 
in  it.  In  the  morning  boll  the  peeling  in  clear  water  until  quite 
tender,  then  chop  very  fine  and  add  the  juice  and  pulp.  Weigh 
and  add  equal  quantity  of  white  sugar.  Let  come  slowly  to  a  boil 
and  let  boil  half  an  hour,  stirring  with  great  care.  Should  be 
quite  clear  and  transparent.  Put  up  in  pint  glass  jars  or  jelly 
tumblers.  If  in  the  latter,  have  cut  ready  rounds  of  close  but  not 
stiff  paper  a  little  larger  than  tops  of  glasses.  Draw  one  side  of 
each  round  of  paper  over  the  white  of  an  egg  which  has  been 
placed,  unbeaten,  upon  a  shallow  saucer;  see  that  the  side  is 
wholly  wet  with  the  egg,  then  press  it  over  the  jelly  glass  firmly 
and  evenly,  holding  it  a  second  so  the  white  of  egg  will  adhere 
to  the  glass.  This  should  be  done  as  soon  as  the  glass  is  filled 
w^ith  the  hot  marmalade  or  jelly,  as  the  heat  quickly  cooks  the 
white  of  egg  and  forms  a  perfectly  air-tight  covering.  For  twelve 
years  I  have  used  this  method  of  sealing  jams  and  jellies,  and  can 
truly  say  that  I  have  not  lost  a  single  glass  or  had  the  slightest 


174  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

mold  form  upon  the  top.  It  is  quickly  and  neatly  done  and 
economical,  for  the  old  way  of  putting  an  inner  round  of  paper, 
wet  with  brandy,  flat  upon  the  jelly  caused  waste  of  the  jelly, 
which  adhered,  to  say  nothing  of  the  additional  trouble.  The 
same  objection  holds  good  against  the  melting  of  paraffin. 

Stewed  Sheep's  Tongues — Parboil  four  or  five  sheep's  tongues 
in  salted  water  until  they  can  be  skinned.  Trim  neatly  and  cut 
lengthwise  into  four  pieces.  Put  for  each  tongue  a  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  pork  and  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley  into  a  sauce- 
pan; put  the  split  tongue  upon  this  bed.  Sprinkle  with  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  pour  over  all  a  cupful  of  stock  or  cold  water  and  stew 
gently  until  tender.  Thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch 
roux,  boil  up  and  serve. 

Cornstarch  Roux — Place  in  a  saucepan  a  half-pound  of  butter; 
when  hot  stir  in  half  a  pound  of  cornstarch,  stir  until  brown  but 
not  scorched,  let  cool  and  bottle  for  handy  use  for  thickening 
giavies  or  soups. 

Oatmeal  Bannocks — Sift  three  cups  of  oatmeal,  one  cup  of 
flour  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  well  together.  Boil  one  pint  of 
milk  and  melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  it.  Make  a  hole 
in  the  middle  of  the  sifted  meal  and  flour  and  pour  the  milk  in; 
stir  into  a  soft  dough  as  quickly  as  possible,  roll  into  a  thin  sheet, 
cut  into  round  cakes  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle;  butter  while  hot 
and  serve.    Good  cold. 

Rissoles — Roll  out  good  pie  crust,  cut  in  square  pieces  as  for 
turnovers;  upon  half  of  each  square  put  a  tablespoonful  of  flnely 
minced  cold  veal,  chicken  or  calves'  liver  (which  has  been  sea- 
soned with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper 
and  a  dusting  of  red  pepper  to  each  pint  of  meat),  brush  the  edges 
of  the  paste  with  white  of  egg,  fold  over  the  other  half  and  pinch 
the  edges  firmly  together;  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  and  when  brown 
wash  over  with  the  beaten  white,  close  the  oven  door  a  minute  to 
glaze  and  serve  hot. 

Boston  Brown  Bread — Two  and  a  half  cups  of  cornmeal,  two 
cups  of  ryemeal,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  molasses,  two  cups 
of  milk,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Scald  the  Indian  meal  with  two  cups  of  boiling  water.  Mix 
well  and  steam  three  hours,  then  place  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
twenty  minutes. 

Chocolate  Fruit  Cookies — Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter  and 
one  cup  of  sugar  gradually;  mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
chocolate  with  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  (taken  from  the  cupful) 
and  dissolve  in  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  water;  hold  over  hot  flre 
if  it  does  not  get  smooth  readily;  add  to  butter,  and  sugar;  stir  in 
two  well-beaten  eggs;  sift  together  two  cupfuls  of  flour  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  add  to  the  mixture  with  half  a  cup 
of  stoned  and  chopped  raisins;  if  not  stiff  enough  to  roll  out,  add 
more  flour;  roll  one-quarter  inch  in  thickness,  cut  out  and  bake 
about  ten  minutes. 

Milled  Cocoa— Let  one  quart  of  milk  just  come  to  a  boil;  mix 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  175 

three  tablespoonfuls  cocoa,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  little 
pinch  of  salt  together;  pour  slowly  upon  this  mixture  one  cupful 
of  boiling  water;  stir  this  into  the  scalded  milk  and  mill  or  beat  it 
with  an  egg-beater  over  the  fire  for  two  minutes. 

Egg  Dumpling  Soup — Into  a  quart  or  three  pints  of  good  stock 
drop  from  a  spoon  dumplings  made  according  to  this  rule:  Beat 
well  two  eggs,  a  very  small  teacup  of  flour  and  a  larger  cup  of 
milk;  melt  in  a  spider  half  a  cup  of  butter;  when  hot  stir  in  the 
batter  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  it  leaves  the  side  of 
the  spider;  set  aside  to  cool;  when  cold  beat  in,  separately,  two 
eggs. 

Beef  a  la  Mode — Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  deep 
stewpan;  when  it  melts  put  in  a  large  onion,  cut  fine,  a  small 
carrot  and  half  a  small  turnip,  also  cut  fine;  cook  these  for  five 
minutes.  Have  three  or  four  pounds  of  the  upper  part  of  the 
round  of  beef  and  a  third  of  a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork.  Cut  the  pork 
in  strips  as  long  as  the  meat  is  thick  and  draw  these  strips  through 
the  beef  with  a  larding  needle,  or  push  the  strips  through  holes 
made  with  the  steel  if  you  have  not  the  needle.  Put  the  meat 
so  prepared  in  the  vegetables  and  butter,  first  dredging  the  meat 
with  flour,  and  brown  on  both  sides.  Add  a  quart  and  a  half  of 
boiling  water,  a  tablespoonfui  of  vinegar,  one  of  lemon  juice, 
a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  a  clove,  three  allspice,  an 
inch  of  stick  cinnamon,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  pinch  of  sage  and  thyme. 
Cover  tightly  and  just  simmer  for  about  three  hours.  Take  up 
the  meat,  skim  off  the  fat,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  corn- 
starch roux;  boil  rapidly  for  a  few  minutes;  strain  the  gravy  over 
the  beef  and  serve.    Enough  for  luncheon  also. 

Macaroni  (special) — Break  twelve  sticks  of  macaroni  into  two- 
inch  pieces  and  cook  in  rapidly  boiling  salted  water  for  twenty 
minutes;  turn  out  into  colander  and  pour  cold  water  through  to 
prevent  its  "clogging."  Melt  one  tablespoon  of  butter;  stir  into 
it  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one-quarter 
saltspoon  of  pepper.  Pour  on  this  gradually  one  and  a  half  cups 
of  boiling  milk.  Mix  sauce  with  macaroni;  grate  one  cup  of  cheese 
and  mix  half  of  it  with  the  macaroni.  Put  the  latter  in  a  greased 
baking  dish  and  cover,  with  half  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs  mixed 
v/ith  a  large  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  and  the  rest  of  the  cheese. 
Bake  until  brown. 

Surprise  Dessert — Place  upon  a  pretty  flat  dish  halves  of  pre- 
served or  canned  peaches,  the  round  side  up.  Around  these  pile 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla.  An  exact 
imitation  of  a  dish  of  poached  eggs  and  very  delicious  to  the 
palate. 

Pudges — A  chafing-dish  recipe,  but  can  be  made  over  stove 
as  well.  Four  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  rich  milk,  one- 
quarter  pound  of  butter,  one-half  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate  grated. 
Put  all  over  hot  fire  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  stirring  constantly. 
Place  pan  in  another  of  hot  water  and  cook  until  it  is  easily 
formed  into  a  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  v/ater;  must  not  be 
hard  or  brittle,  however.    Remove  from  fire  at  this  stage  and  stir 


176  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

until  the  mass  begins  to  set.    Pour  in  pan  to  depth  of  half  an  inch 
and  mark  off  in  squares.     Add  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  when  re- 
moved from  fire  if  liked.  Mrs.  S.  W.  Manney. 
Riverside,  111. 


TUESDAY,  APRIL  THE  TWENTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 
Quaker  oats  with  cream. 
Codfish  with  eggs.  Creamed  potatoes. 

Toasti  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Oysters  on  crackers.         Stuffed  olives. 

English  currant  buns. 

Sliced  oranges.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Bouillon. 

Beef  tongue,  with  rice  Milanaise. 

Lettuce  with  French  dressing. 

Baked  sweet  potatoes.  Cake  roly-poly. 

Coffee. 


Codfish  with  Eggs — Free  a  pound  of  salt  cod  from  bones  and 
skin;  wash  and, tear  into  small  pieces;  let  it  stand  in  cold  water 
just  to  cover,  over  night;  in  the  morning  cover  with  fresh  water, 
and  let  it  heat  slowly,  but  never  come  to  a  boil.  When  fresh 
enough,  drain,  pick,  and  heat  in  a  pint  of  cream  sauce.  Meantime 
cover  one  egg  for  each  person  with  boiling  water,  and  place  where 
they  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil,  for  ten  minutes;  pour  off  the  hot 
water,  turn  on  the  cold,  and  remove  the  shells.  Put  the  fish  and 
sauce  on  a  hot  dish,  lay  the  eggs  on,  garnish  each  with  sprigs  of 
parsley,  or  sprinkle  a  little  minced  parsley  on  the  whole. 

Oysters  on  Crackers — Split  as  many  crackers  as  desired,  and 
spread  generously  with  butter.  Lay  on  each  half  cracker  as  many 
oysters  as  it  will  hold.  Salt,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice.  Cover  with  the  other  half  cracker,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  until  the  crackers  are  brown. 

English  Currant  Buns — One  quart  of  flour,  one  saltspoon  of 
salt,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  two  tablespoons  of  lard, 
one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  coffeecup  of  currants.  Mix  with  milk 
and  water  to  a  soft  dough;  roll  out  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter. 
Bake  about  one-half  hour. 

Stuffed  Olives — Select  the  large  queen  olives  for  this  purpose. 
Stone  with  a  penknife,  making  a  slanting  lengthwise  cut.  Fill 
with  chicken  force  meat. 

Beef  Tongue,  with  Rice  Milanaise — Boil  a  fresh  beef  tongue 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  177 

in  the  stock  pot  with  salt  and  soup  vegetables  until  tender,  which 
will  be  about  one  hour  and  a  half.  Skin  and  put  on  a  dish,  gar- 
nishing with  a  pint  of  hot  Milanaise  rice,  made  as  follows:  Chop 
fine  a  good-sized  onion,  and  fry  in  butter  until  a  golden  color; 
then  add  a  cupful  of  rice,  and  half  a  dozen  minced  mushrooms; 
stir  for  two  minutes,  and  add  one  quart  of  boiling  broth;  stir  light- 
ly once,  cook  fifteen  minutes,  and  add  more  broth  at  intervals  as 
needed.  About  ten  minutes  more  will  finish  the  cooking,  when 
season  with  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  pepper, 
add  half  a  cup  of  grated  Swiss  cheese.      Serve. 

Cake  Roly-Poly — Make  a  plain  sponge  cake  by  sifting  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder  with  one  cup  of  flour;  beat  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  with  one  cupful  of  sugar,  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon 
and  half  the  grated  rind,  then  the  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  lastly  the  flour.  Spread  this  over  a  large  flat  buttered  tin  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Turn  out  on  a  towel,  spread  v/ith  marmalade, 
sweetmeats  or  any  kind  of  stewed  fruit;  trim  off  the  crusty  edges 
and  roll  up.  Serve  with  a  hot  sauce,  or  with  whipped  cream  or 
with  plain  cream  sweetened.  Mrs.  C.  J.  Kuehne. 

No.  205  36th  street,  Chicago. 


WEDNESDAY,  APRIL  THE  TWENTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 
Stewed  prunes.  Tapioca  milk. 

Creamed  eggs.  Potato  puffs. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Salmon  cream  on  toast. 

Hot  scones.  Fruit  jelly. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Carrot  soup  a  la  Cressy. 

Rolled  loin  of  mutton.  Smothered  cabbage. 

Sweet  potatoes  a  la  province. 

Rice  meringue.      Coffee. 


Stewed  Prunes — Wash,  then  put  to  soak  one  pound  of  prunes 
in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them  over  night.  In  the  morning 
put  them  on  to  stew  in  the  water  they  were  soaked  in;  add  the 
rind  of  a  lemon  cut  into  small  thin  strips,  and  let  them  stew  gently 
till  tender.  Add  one  teacupful  of  sugar  just  before  they  are  done; 
they  will  take  about  thirty  minutes  to  stew.  The  addition  of  the 
lemon  rind  is  a  great  improvement.  One  pound  will  make  two 
nice  dishes,  fully  enough  for  two  mornings. 


178  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

• 

Tapioca  Milk — Soak  three  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  tapioca  in 
cold  water  over  night;  in  the  morning  put  on  to  cook  in  double 
boiler;  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  cups  of  boiling 
milk,  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  let  it  cook  thirty  minutes. 

Potato  Puffs — Melt  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in 
one-half  cup  of  milk;  stir  it  into  a  pint  of  hot,  mashed  potatoes 
with  an  even  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of 
pepper;  two  eggs,  well  beaten;  sift  in  enough  flour  to  make  a 
dough,  which  can  be  rolled  out  and  cut  in  thin  biscuits;  bake  them 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  forty  minutes;  serve  hot  with  butter. 

Hot  Scones — One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  one-half  pint  of  butter- 
milk, one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  baking  soda,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  rub  the  but- 
ter into  the  flour,  add  the  sugar  and  salt,  stir  the  soda  into  the 
buttermilk,  and  mix  into  the  flour,  making  a  smooth  paste,  then 
roll  it  out  to  a  thin  sheet  and  cut  it  into  triangular  pieces,  flour  a 
tin  and  put  the  scones  on  and  bake  them  directly  from  thirty  to 
forty  minutes,  just  before  they  are  done  take  them  out  and  brush 
over  with  milk,  put  back  in  oven  to  glaze.  (These  are  good  either 
hot  or  cold.) 

Fruit  Jelly — Cut  four  bananas  lengthwise,  pare  and  slice  three 
oranges,  dissolve  one-half  box  of  Nelson's  gelatine  in  one-half  pint 
of  cold  water;  then  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  the  juice  of  one 
lemon,  one  small  cup  of  sugar,  pour  this  jelly  over  the  fruit  and 
set  it  away  to  cool. 

Carrot  Soup  a  la  Cressy — Six  carrots,  two  onions,  one  head  of 
celery,  or  one  teaspoon  of  celery  seed,  four  ounces  of  raw  ham, 
two  ounces  of  butter,  three  pints  of  stock  or  water,  one  gill  of 
cream,  one-half  teaspoon  of  sugar,  one  saltspoon  of  salt,  one-quar- 
ter teaspoon  of  pepper.  Peel  off  the  red  part  of  the  carrots  and  put 
it  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  onions  sliced,  the  celery  or  seed  and  the 
ham  cut  up,  add  two  ounces  of  butter;  put  the  lid  on  close  and 
simmer  over  the  fire  gently  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  three  pints 
of  stock  or  water  and  simmer  till  the  vegetables  are  tender  (which 
will  be  in  about  three-fourths  of  an  hour),  drain  off  the  stock, 
pound  the  carrots  and  the  other  ingredients  to  a  pulp,  add  the 
stock  they  were  cooked  in  and  press  all  through  a  fine  sieve;  re- 
turn this  puree  to  the  stev/pan  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  till  it  boils; 
let  it  boil  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  add  the  cream,  sugar, 
pepper  and  salt,  serve  with  fried  croutons,  handed  separately. 
(This  will  be  enough  for  two  meals,  and  will  be  found  just  as  good 
made  hot  in  double  boiler  for  second  day.) 

Rolled  Loin  of  Mutton — About  four  or  five  pounds  of  loin 
of  mutton,  trim  off  the  fat  and  take  out  the  bones,  which  is  soon 
done  if  one  has  a  sharp  knife  (or  the  butcher  will  always  do  it  for 
his  customers),  put  the  bones  on  to  stew  with  one  pint  and  a 
half  of  water,  make  a  dressing  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bread 
crumbs,  two  ounces  of  chopped  suet,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
chcpiied  parsley,  thyme,  summer  savory,  onion  and  lemon  peel, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Mix  into 
a  paste  with  one  egg  and  just  a  little  milk  (about  two  tablespoon- 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  179 

fuls  will  be  enough).  Spread  this  dressing  all  over  the  loin  of  mut- 
ton and  roll  it  up  tight,  sew  it  and  place  it  in  the  roasting  pan, 
bake  in  not  too  hot  an  oven  for  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter;  lift 
it  out  onto  a  hot  dish,  pour  off  the  dripping  out  of  the  pan  and 
pour  in  the  gravy  from  the  bones;  set  it  on  top  of  the  stove  to 
heat  and  brown;  pour  over  the  mutton  and  serve  with  red  currant 
jelly.  (This  makes  an  excellent  roast,  and  is  very  good  either 
made  hot  in  some  of  its  own  gravy  or  eaten  cold  v/ith  salad  for 
second  day.) 

Smothered  Cabbage — Cut  a  small  head  of  cabbage  fine  and  put 
it  in  a  pan  where  meat  has  been  fried;  pour  on  one-half  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  season  with  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
pepper,  and  butter  about  the  size  of  an  egg;  cover  it  lightly  and 
let  it  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

Sweet  Potatoes  a  la  Province — Slice  four  raw  sweet  potatoes 
thin  and  lay  in  a  dish  with  bits  of  butter;  sprinkle  with  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoon  of  pepper;  pour 
over  milk  to  cover;  wet  one  large  tablespoon  of  bread  crumbs  in 
milk;  add  a  beaten  egg;  pour  over  the  top;  set  in  the  oven  and 
bake  one-half  hour. 

Rice  Meringue — Boil  one  cup  of  rice  in  a  quart  of  water  until 
tender;  drain  in  a  colander;  add  one  pint  of  milk,  a  tablespoon 
of  butter  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  with  one-half  cup  of 
sugar  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon;  pour  in  a  baking 
dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with 
one-half  teacup  of  powdered  sugar  and  heap  over  the  top;  set  in 
the  oven  to  brown.  Mrs.  H.  Ross  Edwards. 

Anderson,  Ind. 


THURSDAY,  APRIL  THE  TWENTY-SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Dates. 

Oatmeal,  sugar  and  cream. 

Egg  omelets. 

Rye  bread  and  butter. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Brains.  Bread  and  butter. 

Cottage  cheese.       Stewed  prunes. 

Yolk  rings.  Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Brown  farina  soup. 

Chopped  veal  leg.         Rice. 

Lettuce  salad.  Noodle  pudding. 

Stuffed  biscuits.  Tea. 


180  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Rye  Bread — Two  pounds  rye  flour,  three  half-pint  cups  luke- 
warm water,  a  little  wheat-bread  dough,  one  heaping  teaspoonful 
salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  caraway  seed.  Make  a  sponge  of  one- 
half  the  flour,  the  dough  and  water.  Let  it  raise  three  or  four 
hours  and  then  add  the  salt,  caraway  seed  and  remainder  of  flour. 
Mix  and  stir  thoroughly  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Allow  it  to  raise 
to  double  its  size  and  bake  about  thirty-five  minutes  in  an  oven 
heated  just  enough  to  be  able  to  hold  the  hand  in  it  till  you  count 
twenty. 

Brains — One  and  a  half  pounds  brains,  half  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  two  eggs,  a  little 
parsley  and  level  teaspoonful  salt;  place  brains  in  cold  water  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour;  drain  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them; 
take  out  and  pull  off  the  skins;  chop  fine;  add  the  butter,  bread 
crumbs,  eggs,  parsley  chopped  and  salt;  mix  well  and  bake. 

Stewed  Prunes — One  pound  prunes,  grated  rind  of  lemon,  a 
little  cinnamon  and  allspice,  three  tablespoonfuls  sugar;  wash 
the  prunes,  put  into  a  stewpan  with  the  spices  and  sugar;  cover 
well  with  cold  water;  cover  the  stewpan  and  boil  till  soft;  serve 
warm  or  cold. 

Yolk  Rings — Four  eggs,  one-eighth  pound  butter,  one-fourth 
pound  sugar,  a  little  mace  and  grated  lemon  peel,  and  scant  pint 
flour.  Boil  the  eggs  hard;  take  out  yolks  and  rub  into  the  butter. 
Add  the  sugar,  mace  and  lemon  rind  and  stir,  adding  the  flour. 
Roll  out,  cut  in  round  cakes,  make  a  hole  in  the  center  of  each. 
Strew  with  sugar  and  bake. 

Brown  Farina  Soup — Two  quarts  water,  one  onion,  one  small 
carrot  cut  in  pieces,  a  little  parsley  and  celery,  one  egg,  about 
three  tablespoonfuls  farina,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  salt  and  the 
bones  cut  from  the  veal.  Put  bones  into  the  cold  water,  bring  to 
a  boil  and  skim.  Add  the  onion,  carrot,  parsley,  celery  and  salt. 
Boil  till  reduced  to  three  pints.  Strain  and  cool.  Beat  the  egg, 
add  a  little  salt;  pour  in  farina  gradually,  stirring  constantly,  till 
of  cake-dough  consistency.  Drop  the  farina  from  a  teaspoon  into 
frying-pan  in  which  a  lump  of  butter,  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  has 
been  heating.  When  browned  on  both  sides,  drop  the  farina 
balls  into  the  soup.  Allow  it  to  stand  fifteen  minutes,  then  boil 
another  fifteen  minutes,  and  finally  pour  in  the  farina,  which  has 
been  browned  in  the  butter  left  in  the  frying-pan,  cooled  and 
mixed  with  a  little  lukewarm  water,  so  as  not  to  form  lumps. 
Boil  up  and  serve. 

Chopped  Veal  Leg— One  and  a  half  pounds  chopped  veal  off 
the  leg,  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  one-eighth  pound  chopped  suet,  two 
eggs,  one  rounding  teaspoonful  salt,  one  lemon  and  a  pinch  of 
mace.  Have  the  butcher  chop  the  veal  fine  and  give  you  the  bones 
he  has  taken  out.  Use  them  for  soup.  Mix  the  veal,  bread  crumbs, 
suet,  eggs,  salt,  juice  of  half  the  lemon  and  mace  all  together 
thoroughly.  Wet  hands  in  cold  water  and  shape  like  veal  leg; 
put  into  a  greased  dripping-pan;  pour  a  cup  hot  water  around 
the  meat;  cover  with  a  larger  dripping-pan.     Bake  one  hour  in 


THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  181 

steady  oven.     Take  off  the  pan,  brown  the  top,  and,  just  before 
serving,  pour  over  the  juice  of  the  other  half  of  the  lemon. 

Rice — Wash  thoroughly  one-quarter  pound  rice.  Put  into  plenty 
of  boiling  salted  water.  When  soft  drain  in  colander.  Pour  over 
it  some  cold  water;  drain.  Add  a  bit  of  butter,  a  dash  of  pepper; 
mix  carefully  and  place  in  open  oven  on  a  warm  platter  a  little 
while. 

Noodle  Pudding — One  egg,  scant  cup  of  flour,  one-eighth  tea- 
spoonful  salt.  Sift  the  flour  and  salt.  Into  the  center  break  the 
egg.  Mix  flour  into  egg  with  a  knife  and  make  a  stiff  dough, 
but  still  capable  of  being  rolled  out.  Work  it  with  the  hands  till 
pliable.  Roll  out  into  a  thin  sheet.  Cut  in  long,  narrow  strips, 
placing  one  over  the  other,  then  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  across  into 
fine  strands.  Boil  two  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain. 
Cream  one  teaspoonful  butter  with  one  tablespoonful  sugar  and  a 
few  blanched  and  chopped  almonds.  Rub  into  the  noodles.  Pour 
over  all  a  small  cup  of  sweet  cream.  Mix.  Place  in  a  dish,  earthen- 
ware preferred,  strew  with  bits  of  butter  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  till  brown.    Eat  with  cinnamon  and  sugar. 

Stuffed  Biscuits  (Bohemian  kolace) — Into  one  pound  of  flour 
put  a  cent's  worth  of  yeast,  prepared,  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  but- 
ter or  lard,  one  scant  pint  of  lukewarm  milk,  one  level  teaspoon- 
ful salt.  Mix  thoroughly  with  wooden  spoon,  working  the  dough 
till  smooth.  Set  in  warm  place  to  raise  and  cover  it.  When  raised 
put  on  a  floured  kneading  board.  Roll  out  to  about  halt  an  inch 
in  thickness,  cut  in  circular  shape,  place  in  greased  dripping-pan 
without  touching.  Rub  over  with  butter  or  lard  (melted).  Take 
out  pits  from  prunes  left  over  from  luncheon.  Chop  the  prunes 
and  put  a  little  of  the  jam  on  the  center  of  each  biscuit.  Let 
raise  again  and  bake  to  a  light  brown.  To  prepare  the  yeast 
crumble  it  into  a  cup  with  one  tablespoonful  sugar  and  one  quar- 
ter cup  warm  milk.    Mix  and  use  as  soon  as  it  rises. 

Mrs.  Mary  A.  Cizkovsky. 

No.  1033  Spaulding  avenue,  Chicago. 


FRIDAY,  APRIL  THE  TWENTY-THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Hazel  oats,  sugar,  milk. 

Lamb  cutlets.  Minced  potato. 

White  bread.  Brown  bread. 

Cereal  Winsor  coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Shrimp  salad  mayonnaise. 

Graham  crackers. 

Pieplant  meringue  pie. 


182  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Cream  tomato  soup. 

Broiled  pompano,  tartare  sauce. 

Potatoes  in  form. 

Lettuce  with  salad  dressing. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Kuchen  with  coffee. 


Lamb  Cutlets— Only  the  "rack"  can  be  used  in  this  way.  Take 
it  home  and  cut  the  chops  yourself,  few  butchers  will  cut  them 
rightly.  First  cut  and  chop  off  all  the  backbone  at  once.  Chop 
oft"  all  the  ends  of  the  ribs  so  that  the  cutlets  shall  be  of  the  same 
length.  Then  cut  through,  leaving  two  rib-bones  in  each  chop; 
carefully  cut  out  one  bone  and  trim  and  scrape  the  other  clean 
for  about  one  inch  from  its  end.  Flatten  the  cutlets  and  trim  off 
all  ragged  edges.  About  one-half  hour  before  breakfast  time  take 
the  ashes  out  of  the  ash-pan  and  put  in  a  bed  of  charcoal.  Place 
upon  this  a  few  live  coals,  and  cover  with  something  so  as  to 
cause  a  good  draft.  Have  always  ready  a  little,  flat,  tin-bound 
brush  in  a  tin  cup  with  either  drippings  or  melted  butter  in  it. 
Lay  the  meat  on  a  plate  and  slightly  brush  over  on  both  sides 
with  the  butter.  Then  place  it  on  a  wire  broiler  and  cook  quickly. 
Lamb  cutlets  will  cook  in  about  the  same  time  that  an  egg  will 
boil  soft  (never  stick  a  fork  into  broiling  meat).  Cut  as  many 
thin  pear-shaped  slices  of  bread  as  there  are  cutlets — one  for 
each  person  is  generally  sufficient— toast  and  butter  them  and  set 
them  on  end  alternately  with  the  cutlets,  one  toast  and  one  cut- 
let, on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  without  sauce,  except  table  sauces  and 
pickles.     This  dish  is  well  worth  the  trouble  of  preparing. 

Minced  Potato — Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  small  and  season 
wHh  salt.  Spread  a  spoonful  of  drippings  or  butter  in  a  frying 
pan  and  place  the  potatoes  in  about  an  inch  deep.  Cook  on  top 
of  the  range  without  stirring.  Cover  with  an  inverted  plate  and 
let  them  brown  nicely  and  slowly.  Then  turn  over  onto  the  plate, 
set  in  another  plate  and  serve  with  the  brown  side  up. 

Shrimp  Salad  Mayonnaise — Shred  one  large  head  of  lettuce  as 
fine  as  possible  with  a  sharp  knife  on  a  board;  rinse  a  can  of 
shrimps  in  cold  water;  put  them  in  a  bowl  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  olive  oil  and  the  same  of  vinegar  and  shake  about  to  make 
them  look  shiny  and  moist;  cover  a  flat  dish  with  lettuce.  Pile 
the  shrimps  neatly  in  the  middle  and  spread  over  the  top,  so  as  not 
to  hide  the  shrimps,  some  mayonnaise  or  salad  dressing.  Shrimps 
that  are  so  shaken  will  generally  keep  their  shape  if  pressed  a 
little  in  a  deep  dish,  and  can  then  be  turned  out  upon  the  lettuce  in 
form. 

Pieplant  Meringue  Pie — Either  fresh  or  canned  pieplant  may 
be  used  for  this.  Take  enough  stewed  pieplant  for  one  pie — about 
half  a  pint — and  stir  into  it  while  boiling  a  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  cornstarch  mixed  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  cup  of  sugar 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  183 

and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  have  ready  a  pie  tin  lined  with 
a  nice  crust  already  baked.  Spread  this  with  the  pieplant  mixture 
and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
stiff,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Set  in  the  oven  until 
nicely  browned  and  serve  cold.    Delicious. 

Broiled  Pompano — Scrape  the  skin  thoroughly.  The  small 
ones,  weighing  a  pound  or  so,  may  be  broiled  whole;  the  large 
ones  should  be  split  down  the  back  and  through  the  head.  Broil 
the  cut  side  first — eight  or  ten  minutes — brush  over  with  butter 
and  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  broil  the  skin  side  until 
done.    Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  tartare  sauce  poured  around. 

Tartare  Sauce — Boil  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion  in  a  quar- 
ter cupful  of  vinegar  a  few  minutes,  throw  in  a  cookingspoonful 
of  butter,  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten,  and  cook  about  a 
minute  longer.  When  it  thickens  take  it  from  the  fire  and  add 
gradually  a  cookingspoonful  of  olive  oil,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
pinch  of  cayenne  and  a  little  minced  cucumber  or  gherkin  pickle 
(this  latter  is  not  necessary  but  an  improvement).  Serve  very  hot 
with  fish,  or  in  a  gravy  boat  if  preferred. 

Kuchen — Make  a  sponge  as  for  bread  of  flour  wet  with  one 
pint  of  lukewarm  milk,  salt  and  one  cake  compressed  yeast  and 
set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  If  for  lunch  rise  over  night,  but  for 
dinner  it  m.ay  be  mixed  in  the  morning.  When  light  add  three 
eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  butter  or  half  as  much  cottolene, 
one  cup  seeded  raisins,  flour  enough  to  mold  up  like  bread.  Let 
rise  again  and  press  out  into  a  cake  to  fill  a  dripping  pan;  spread 
with  butter  and  cover  with  sliced  apples.  Sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon  and  bake  as  3^ou  would  bread.  Serve  hot  or  cold, 
with  after-dinner  coffee.  This  quantity  will  serve  for  several 
meals  and  is  nice  for  lunch,  as  it  will  not  dry  in  many  days. 

Harriet  Mann. 

No.  1421  Central  street,  Evanston,  111. 


SATURDAY,  APRIL  THE  TWENTY-FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Cornmeal  mush.  Cream  and  sugar. 

Waffles.      Maple  sirup.      Rolls. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Steamed  macaroni,  tomato  sauce. 

Stewed  apples.     Bread  and  butter  sandwiches. 

Tea. 


184  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK 

DINNER. 

Mock  bisque  soup. 

Tongue  fricassee.         Olives.         Riced  potatoes. 

June  peas  (canned). 

Hopple  popple.  Lady  fingers. 

Small  coffee. 


Steamed  Macaroni— Boil  one-half  package  of  macaroni  until 
tender.  Throw  into  a  colander  and  drain.  Beat  three  eggs' until 
light,  add  one  tablespoon  butter,  one-half  cup  milk  or  stock,  flavor 
with  one  even  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper  and  about  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion.  Butter  the  double-boiler 
and  sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs.  Place  the  macaroni  into  the 
egg  mixture  and  then  pour  all  into  the  double-boiler,  sprinkling 
the  top  with  cracker  crumbs  and  small  bits  of  butter.  Tie  the 
cover  of  the  boiler  down  firmly  with  string  and  allow  it  to  steam 
for  one  hour  and  a  half,  then  invert  the  boiler  and  serve  with 
tomato  sauce. 

Tomato  Sauce — Rub  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one  tea- 
spoon of  cornstarch  together  in  a  spider  and  add  slowly  the  juice 
of  one-half  can  of  tomatoes.  Season  with  a  large  saltspoon  of 
salt,  saltspoon  sugar  and  a  tiny  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Tongue  Fricassee — Wash  a  fresh  beef  tongue  thoroughly  in  two 
or  three  waters.  Trim,  and  tie  into  shape.  Cover  with  boiling 
water  and  season  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  twelve  pepper- 
corns and  one  small  onion.  The  tongue  should  be  boiled  and 
skinned  the  day  before.    Skin  while  still  hot. 

Gravy — Throw  one  tablespoon  of  flour  into  a  hot  dry  spider. 
Allow  it  to  become  a  rich  brown.  Rub  in  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  small  egg  and  slowly  add  the  strained  liquor  of  the 
tongue.  Season  this  gravy  with  one  saltspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon 
sugar,  and  one  tablespoon  catsup.  Throw  in  the  sliced  tongue  and 
let  all  boil  for  about  five  minutes,  when  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Hopple  Popple — Grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon  and  squeeze  out 
the  juice.  Add  one  teaspoon  best  vanilla,  one  coffeecup  sifted 
powdered  sugar,  two  whole  eggs  and  the  yolks  of  seven  others. 
Beat  all  this  together  for  twenty  minutes  with  a  Dover  beater. 
If  another  beater  is  used  it  must  be  beaten  thirty  minutes.  Have 
one-half  box  Cox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  one  cup  of  water.  Add 
the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  seven  yolks  and  at  last,  drop  by 
drop,  the  gelatine  beating  all  the  while.  Drop  the  mixture  into  a 
glass  dish  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  with  the  juice  of  any 
preserved  fruit  or  the  sweetened  juice  of  oranges.  It  is  very  de- 
licious and  not  at  all  expensive  when  eggs  are  cheap. 

0  Margaret  Segur. 

Flat  3,  The  Melrose,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  185 

SUNDAY,  APRIL  THE  TWENTY-FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Unstemmed  strawberries,  powdered  sugar. 

Oatmeal  flakes,  cream,  sugar. 

Breakfast  bacon  broiled.      Omelet  with  parsley. 

Baking  powder  biscuits. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Dried  beef  scrambled.  Creamed  potatoes. 

Beaten  biscuits. 

Lettuce  salad.  Crackers. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  asparagus  soup.  Croutons. 

Boiled  leg  of  mutton.      Egg  sauce. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Peas.  Young  onions. 

White  bread. 

Meringues  and  cream. 

Coffee. 


Omelet  with  Parsley — Five  eggs  beaten  well  separately,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper,  one  teaspoon 
flour,  one  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  turn  the  well-beaten  mix- 
ture into  a  hot  skillet  containing  one  large  teaspoon  of  butter, 
cook  until  set,  fold  together  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  covered  with  a 
folded  napkin. 

Dried  Beef  Scrambled — Sizzle  one-half  pound  of  chipped  dried 
beef  in  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  scram- 
ble all  together,  serve  hot. 

Beaten  Biscuit — Sift  one  teaspoon  of  salt  with  one  quart  of 
flour.  Add  one  tablespoon  of  lard.  Part  milk  and  part  ice  water 
to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Beat  and  work  until  of  a  velvety  smooth- 
ness and  beginning  to  blister,  at  least  a  half  hour.  Roll  to  one- 
half  inch  thickness.  Cut  with  small  cutter.  Bake  in  moderately 
quick  oven.    Prick  well  vnth  fork  before  baking. 

Lettuce  Salad — In  buying  choose  firm,  crisp  heads  of  lettuce. 
Let  lie  in  running  water  for  one  hour,  then  wash  well  in  ice  water. 
This  will  insure  its  crispness.  Wipe  carefully  and  thoroughly  in 
a  napkin.  To  one  head  of  lettuce  the  rule  is  two  tablespoons  of 
olive  oil,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Rub  the  salad  bowl  with  a 
split  clove  or  garlic  or  bit  of  onion;  add  oil;  dissolve  salt  and  pep- 
per in  vinegar,  add  to  oil,  mix  well,  turn  the  lettuce  into  bowl, 
toss  well  and  serve. 

Cream  of  Asparagus  Soup — All  good  soups  take  stock,  which 


186  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

should  be  made  every  week  from  scraps  and  bones  and  kept  in 
the  ice  chest.  Put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  sauce-pan,  add 
three  tablespoons  of  flour,  stir  well  and  add  three  pints  of  un- 
salted  soup  stock,  previously  warmed.  Put  into  this  one-half 
bunch  of  asparagus,  twelve  whole  black  peppers,  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  two  cloves,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  one  of  parsley.  Boil  thirty 
minutes.  Strain  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  cream.  Delicious  and  in- 
expensive. The  hard  ends  of  asparagus  may  be  used,  v/hich  have 
been  trimmed  from  the  bunch  the  day  before,  as  well  as  any  cold 
left-over  asparagus. 

Croutons — Butter  slices  of  bread,  cut  rather  thick.  Cut  off 
the  crusts,  cut  into  small  blocks  and  place  in  the  oven  until  a 
golden  brown.    Use  up  scraps  of  bread  in  this  v/ay. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton — Take  a  medium-sized  leg  of  mutton, 
cut  off  the  shank  bone;  trim  well.  Plunge  into  a  pot  of  boiling 
water,  sufficient  to  cover  it.  Add  one-half  tablespoon  salt,  twelve 
whole  black  peppers,  a  bit  of  red  pepper,  six  cloves,  one  large 
onion,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  parsley.  Boil  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 
There  will  be  sufficient  left  for  a  lunch  (cold)  and  a  breakfast 
hashed  with  potatoes.    Very  delicate. 

Egg  Sauce — Stir  two  tablespoons  of  flour  into  one  of  butter, 
melted.  Moisten  with  one  and  a  half  pints  of  the  "mutton  broth" 
(previously  strained).  Let  boil  well.  Have  the  yolks  of  two 
hard-boiled  eggs  well  mashed  and  moistened  with  a  little  of  the 
broth.  Add  slowly;  then  add  the  chopped  whites  and  a  tablespoon 
of  lemon  juice.  Garnish  the  mutton  with  a  portion  of  the  sauce, 
send  the  rest  to  the  table  in  the  gravy  dish. 

Meringues — Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  eight  minutes  with  a 
scant  saltspoon  of  salt.  Gradually  add  one  pound  of  powdered 
sugar,  mixing  slowly.  Add  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Line  a  large 
pan  with  brown  paper.  Do  not  grease  it.  Drop  the  mixture  in  egg 
shapes  about  two  and  one-half  inches  long  by  one  inch  wide  and 
one  inch  apart.  Sprinkle  liberally  with  powdered  sugar.  Bake  in 
a  slow  oven  thirty  minutes.  When  cold  wet  the  wrong  side  of 
the  paper  and  the  meringues  will  detach  easily.  With  finger  press 
the  inside  into  perfect  egg  shape.  Serve  with  cream.  This  will 
make  eighteen  shells — enough  for  two  meals. 

Mrs.  A.  R.  Martin. 

Pewee  Valley,  Oldham  County,  Ky. 


MONDAY,  APRIL  THE  TWENTY-SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 
Graham  mush.  Sugar,  cream. 

Quaker  omelet,  cream  sauce. 

Potato  puffs.  English  muffins. 

Coffee. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  187 

LUNCHEON. 

Cold  boiled  fish  a  la  vinaigrette. 

Dinner  rolls. 

Rhubarb  charlotte.     Tea. 


DINNER. 

Ragout  of  mutton.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Minced  spinach. 

Sponge  drops.         Fruit  glace. 

Coffee. 


Quaker  Omelet — Three  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  one  and  a 
half  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Put  the  omelet  pan  and  a  cover  that 
will  fit  closely  on  to  heat.  Beat  well  together  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  the  cornstarch  and  the  salt.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Add  to  the  well-beaten  yolks  and  cornstarch,  stir  all  together 
very  thoroughly  and  add  the  milk.  Put  the  butter  in  the  hot  pan. 
When  melted  pour  in  the  mixture.  Cover  and  place  on  the  stove, 
where  it  will  brov/n  but  not  burn.  Cook  about  seven  minutes, 
fold,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  cream  sauce  poured  around 
it. 

Cream  Sauce — One  cupful  of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and 
one-quarter  of  that  amount  of  pepper.  Put  the  butter  in  a  small 
frying  pan,  and,  when  hot  but  not  brown,  add  the  flour.  Stir 
until  smooth,  then  gradually  add  the  milk.  Let  it  boil  up  once. 
Season  with  the  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

English  Muffins — One  quart  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-third  of  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  one  cupful  and  a  half 
of  water.  Have  the  water  blood-warm.  Dissolve  the  yeast  in  one- 
third  of  a  cupful  of  cold  water.  Add  it  and  the  salt  to  the  warm 
water,  and  gradually  stir  into  the  flour.  Beat  the  dough  thor- 
oughly; cover  and  let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the 
morning  flour  the  board  well,  shape  the  dough  into  balls  about 
twice  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  drop  them  on  the  floured  board. 
When  all  the  dough  has  been  shaped  roll  the  balls  into  cakes  about 
one-third  of  an  inch  thick.  Lay  these  on  a  warm  griddle  which 
has  been  lightly  greased  and  put  the  griddle  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  where  there  is  not  much  heat.  When  they  have  risen  a 
little  draw  the  griddle  forward  and  cook  them  slowly,  turning 
often  to  keep  the  flat  shape.  It  will  take  about  twenty  minutes  for 
them  to  rise  on  the  griddle  and  fifteen  to  cook.  Tear  them  apart, 
butter  and  serve. 

Cold  Boiled  Fish  a  la  Vinaigrette — Take  the  remains  of  any 
cold  fish,  baked  or  boiled,  pick  free  from  skin  and  bone,  heap  light- 
ly in  the  center  of  a  dish;  sprinkle  vinaigrette  sauce  over  it.  Gar- 
nish with  a  border  of  lettuce  leaves  and  cold-boiled  eggs,  cut  in 
rings. 


188  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Vinaigrette  Sauce — One  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  one  of 
salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  oil.  Mix  the  salt,  pepper  and  mustard  together; 
then  very  slowly  add  the  vinegar;  after  mixing  well  add  the  oil. 

Rhubarb  Charlotte — Butter  a  baking  dish  thoroughly  and 
cover  the  bottom  an  inch  deep  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  then  with 
a  layer  of  rhubarb  that  has  been  peeled  and  cut  into  thin,  small 
pieces.  Scatter  thickly  with  sugar,  cover  with  a  second  layer  of 
crumbs;  put  bits  of  butter  over  each  layer  of  crumbs.  Continue  to 
fill  the  dish  thus  to  the  top;  the  top  layer  should  be  crumbs.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven  for  an  hour. 

Ragout  of  Mutton — Three  pounds  of  any  of  the  cheap  parts 
of  mutton,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  three  of  flour,  one  onion, 
one  large  white  turnip  cut  into  little  cubes,  a  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  (these  last  two  quantities 
may  be  increased  or  decreased,  as  taste  requires),  one  quart  of 
water  and  a  bouquet  of  sweet  herbs.  Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces. 
Put  three  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour  in  the  stewpan, 
and  when  hot  and  smooth  add  the  meat.  Stir  until  a  rich  brown, 
and  then  add  water  and  set  where  it  will  simmer.  Put  the  rest  of 
the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  hot  put  in  the  turnips  and 
onions,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour;  stir  all  the  time  until  a  golden 
brown,  then  drain  and  put  with  the  meat.  Sinimer  for  an  hour 
and  a  half.     Serve  very  hot. 

To  Make  a  Bouquet  of  Sweet  Herbs — Put  two  sprigs  of  parsley 
on  the  table  and  across  them  lay  two  bay  leaves,  two  sprigs  of 
thyme,  two  of  summer  savory  and  two  leaves  of  sage.  Tie  all 
these  herbs  (which  are  dry)  with  the  parsley. 

Minced  Spinach — Wash  thoroughly  and  boil  in  a  little  water 
until  tender.  Drain  in  the  colander  and  chop  fine  in  the  tray. 
Sprinkle  well  with  one-quarter  teaspoonful  pepper  and  one- 
half  teaspoonful  salt.  For  each  quart  of  chopped  spinach  put 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  in  a  frying-pan. 
When  cooked  smooth  and  before  it  becomes  brown  add  the 
spinach;  stir  for  flve  minutes,  then  add  half  a  cupful  of  milk 
and  stir  three  minutes  longer.  Arrange  on  a  hot  dish  in  the 
shape  of  a  mound.  Garnish  with  a  wreath  of  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs  at  the  base,  and  finish  the  top  v/ith  another  wreath. 
Serve  hot. 

Fruit  Glace — Boil  together  for  half  an  hour  one  cupful  of 
granulated  sugar  and  one  of  water.  Dip  the  point  of  a  skewer 
in  the  sirup  after  it  has  been  boiling  the  given  time  and  then 
in  water.  If  the  thread  formed  breaks  off  brittle  the  sirup  is  done. 
Pare  some  oranges,  divide  them  into  eighths  and  wipe  free  of 
moisture.  Pour  part  of  the  hot  sirup  into  a  cup,  which  keep  in 
boiling  water.  Take  the  pieces  of  orange  on  the  point  of  a  large 
needle  or  skewer  and  dip  them  in  the  sirup.  Place  them  on  a 
dish  that  has  been  buttered  lightly.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to 
stir  the  sirup,  as  that  spoils  it.  Mrs.  John  Buie. 

No.  170  Harding  Avenue,  Chicago. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  189 

TUESDAY,  APRIL  THE  TWENTY-SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Oatmeal  with  sugar  and  whipped  cream. 

Dutch  fried  potatoes.      Boiled  eggs. 

Popovers  with  butter  and  maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Boudins.  Lettuce. 

Whole  wheat  bread  and  butter. 

Swedish  rolls.  Pieplant  sauce.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Clear  soup. 

Very  small  squares  of  hot  dry  toast. 

Small  veal  roast.     Mashed  potatoes.     Spinach. 

Imperial  rice.  Tea. 


Dutch  Fried  Potatoes — Fry  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion  in 
pork  fat  or  butter,  add  two  cupfuls  sliced  raw  potatoes,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  pepper  and  fry  a 
delicate  brown.  Beat  an  egg  light,  pour  over  the  potato  and  take 
up  at  once  in  a  hot  dish. 

Boudins — Two  cups  finely  chopped  cold  cooked  veal,  chicken 
or  whitefish;  one-half  cup  chopped  oysters,  a  sprig  of  parsley, 
three-quarters  of  a  teaspoonful  salt,  a  saltspoonful  white  pepper, 
two  stalks  chopped  celery,  one-half  cup  white  sauce,  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs  stirred  in  the  last  thing.  Half  fill  small  but- 
tered cups  with  the  mixture,  set  in  a  baking  tin  of  hot  water,  bake 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes;  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter  and  pour  over 
the  boudins  a  cupful  of  white  sauce. 

Swedish  Rolls — One-half  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  one  pint 
scalded  milk,  six  cups  Pillsbury's  flour,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one- 
quarter  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  cup  currants,  one 
tablespoonful  grated  yellow  part  of  lemon  peel.  Stir  three  cups 
of  flour  into  the  milk  when  it  becomes  lukewarm.  Add  the  sugar, 
a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  the  butter  and  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs  and  the  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.  Mix  well 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  fully  twice  its  size  add  the 
rest  of  the  flour,  rub  butter  over  the  dough  and  let  rise  in  a  warm 
place  an  hour  or  until  it  is  double  the  size.  Take  a  part  of  the 
dough  on  a  slightly  floured  board,  pat  it  out  to  less  than  half  an 
inch  in  thickness,  butter  with  soft  butter,  sprinkle  thickly  with 
sugar,  then  with  a  little  of  the  lemon  and  lastly  with  currants. 
Roll  as  for  a  jelly  roll.    Cut  off  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  put  in 


190  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

a  buttered  tin,  let  rise  an  hour  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty 
minutes.    To  be  eaten  cold. 

(Note — The  remainder  of  the  Swedish  roll  dough  may  be 
made  into  cinnamon  rolls  by  substituting  cinnamon  for  the  grated 
lemon  peel  or  into  any  other  preferred  rolls.) 

Imperial  Rice — Into  a  double  boiler  put  one  and  one-half  cups 
milk,  one-half  saltspoon  of  salt,  one-quarter  cup  rice.  Cook  till 
the  milk  is  absorbed,  then  add  one-sixth  box  of  gelatine  soaked  in 
cold  water  and  dissolved  over  heat.  When  the  mixture  is  cold 
and  preparing  to  thicken  add  one-quarter  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and,  lastly,  half  a  cup  of  cream 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Turn  in  a  wet  mold  and  set  away  to 
cool.  Miss  L,  C.  Hunger. 

Aurora,  111. 


WEDNESDAY,   APRIL  THE   TWENTY-EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheatena,  cream  and  sugar. 

Veal  collops.  Fried  potatoes. 

Quick  coffeecake. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Chicken  omelet.      White  radishes. 

Steamed  brown  bread.  Stewed  rhubarb. 

White  gingercakes. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Spring  vegetable  soup. 

Whitefish  a  la  creme. 

Baked  potatoes.  Spinach  with  egg. 

Mixed  salad.         Dainty  dessert. 

Coffee. 


Veal  Collops— Cut  one  pound  lean  veal  into  pieces  the  size 
of  an  oyster;  season  with  quarter-teaspoonful  of  pepper,  half- 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  mace;  dip  in  egg,  then  into  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat;  they  both  look  and  taste  like  oysters. 

Quick  Coffeecake— A  delicious  coffeecake  is  made  by  creaming 
one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter  with  a  cup  of  sugar;  add  one  beaten 
egg,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  one  and  a 
half  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  one  good  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder;  bake  in  a  flat  tin,  pouring  the  batter  less  than  an  inch 
thick:  dot  with  bits  of  butter  the  size  of  a  pea  about  an  inch 
apart  and  sprinkle  plentifully  with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  191 

Chicken  Omelet — Warm  one  cupful  of  cold  chicken  (one-half 
veal  is  just  as  good),  minced  fine,  in  a  teacup  of  milk,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  quarter-teaspoonful  salt  and  saitspoonful 
of  pepper;  thicken  with  a  large  tablespoonful  of  flour;  make  a 
plain  omelet,  then  add  this  mixture  just  before  turning  it  over. 

White  Gingercakes — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  sour  milk,  three  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  warm  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  an  orange, 
and  five  cups  of  sifted  flour,  or  enough  to  roll  out  soft.  Cut  rather 
thick  like  biscuit,  bake  in  a  quick  ov^en  and  sprinkle  with  sugar 
while  hot. 

Spring  Vegetable  Soup — Put  in  a  saucepan  with  one  pint  of 
water  two  shredded  lettuces,  one  onion,  half  a  pint  of  green  or 
canned  peas,  a  small  bunch  of  parsley,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
and  simmer  till  tender.  Season  with  a  small  teaspoonful  salt  and 
quarter-teaspoonful  of  pepper.  When  done  drain  off  the  vegeta- 
bles and  add  two-thirds  of  the  liquor  to  one-quart  of  soup  stock. 
Beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  the  other  third  of  the  liquor 
vegetables  were  boiled  in,  toss  it  over  the  flre,  and  at  the  moment 
of  serving  add  this  with  the  vegetables. 

Whitefish  a  la  creme — Rub  the  fish  ^ell  with  salt  and  put 
it  into  a  kettle  with  just  sufficient  warm  water  to  cover  it;  as  soon 
as  it  boils  set  it  where  it  will  simmer  for  an  hour;  then  drain  it 
and  remove  the  large  bones.  Put  one  ounce  of  flour  into  a  sauce- 
pan, to  which  add  by  degrees  a  quart  of  milk,  mix  very  smooth, 
add  one  large  onion  sliced,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  little  nutmeg, 
one  teaspoonful  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  pepper;  place  all 
over  the  fire  and  stir  constantly  till  it  becomes  quite  thick,  then 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  pass  through  a  sieve,  pour  the 
hot  sauce  over  the  fish,  set  in  the  oven  and  let  it  brown.  The  white 
of  an  egg  v/ell  beaten  and  spread  over  it  will  make  it  brown  better. 
To  prevent  the  china  dish  from  breaking  or  discoloring  place  it 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  before  setting  in  the  oven.  Once  tasted, 
never  forgotten. 

Dainty  Dessert— One  quart  of  milk,  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  heaping  cupful  of  sifted  fiour,  one 
scant  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  add  a  little  grated  lemon  peel  and 
a  saitspoonful  salt,  beat  till  very  light,  bake  in  gem  pans,  sift 
powdered  sugar  over  them  and  serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

Mrs.  Marion  C.  Wilson. 

No.  6407  Lexington  avenue,  Chicago. 


THURSDAY,  APRIL  THE  TWENTY-NINTH. 


BREAKFAST.   • 
Fruit  salad. 
Barley  crystals,  with  sugar  and  cream. 
Eggs  on  zwieback. 
Potato  sticks.  Coffee. 


192  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Liver  patties.  Cheese  pudding. 

Bread  and  butter.  Rice  balls. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Baked  beefsteak  and  potatoes. 

Corn  drops.  French  peas. 

Colonial  hats.         After-dinner  coffee. 


Fruit  Salad — Remove  peel  and  seeds  from  three  oranges, 
and  cut  each  section  in  several  pieces.  Slice  two  small  bananas 
and  cut  two  figs  in  tiny  pieces.  Mix  lightly,  adding  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Eggs  on  Zwieback — Break  each  egg  on  a  well-buttered  round 
of  stale  bread,  season  each  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Set  in  a  moder- 
ately hot  oven  until  the  bread  is  browned  and  the  eggs  are  set. 
Serve  hot. 

Potato  Sticks — Cut  four  good-sized  potatoes,  that  have  beeh 
peeled  and  laid  in  cold  water  over  night,  into  sticks  about  one- 
fourth  of  an  inch  square  and  an  inch  and  a  half  long.  Wipe  per- 
fectly dry  in  a  clean  towel,  drop  in  plenty  of  smoking  hot  fat  "and 
fry  a  delicate  brown.  When  done  give  them  at  once  a  thorough 
shaking  in  a  large  paper  sack  to  remove  any  grease  adhering; 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.    Serve  hot. 

Liver  Patties — Chop  cold  stewed  liver  until  quite  fine.  Add 
to  a  pint  of  liver  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  (melted),  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Mix  thoroughly.  Put 
a  heaping  tablespoonful  in  each  very  thin  tart  shell  and  bake 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.    Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Cheese  Pudding — One  cupful  each  of  grated  or  chopped  cheese, 
bread  crumbs  and  milk,  one  egg  beaten,  one  teaspoonful  of  but- 
ter, one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  mixed  mustard,  one  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper.  Put  cheese  and  bread  crumbs  in  alternate 
layers  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  mix  egg,  milk  and  seasoning 
and  pour  over  and  bake  until  firm  like  custard,  about  fifteen  min- 
utes.   Serve  hot. 

Rice  Balls — Thoroughly  mix  a  brimming  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice  with  a  pint  of  cold,  boiled  and  well-drained  rice. 
Press  into  tight  balls  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Drop  in  hot  fat  until 
a  golden  brown.  Drain  on  paper,  dust  with  pulverized  sugar  and 
serve  at  once.    Very  delicate. 

Baked  Beefsteak  and  Potatoes — Lay  the  steak  in  the  center  of 
the  baking  pan,  the  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  in  half-inch  slices 
around  it.  Put  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  sprinkle  of  salt  on  each  piece 
of  potato,  but  do  not  salt  the  meat  until  done.  If  the  steak  is 
not  sufficiently  fat  dot  it  with  butter.    A  cheap  steak  will  be  found 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  193 

far  more  palatable  cooked  in  this  way.  Tlie  oven  should  not  be  too 
hot. 

Corn  Drops — One  can  of  corn,  three  eggs,  a  small  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Beat 
the  eggs  thoroughly,  melt  the  butter  and  mix  both  with  the  other 
ingredients.  Drop  in  well-buttered  gem  pan's  and  b'ake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  half  an  hour. 

French  Peas — Soak  a  pint  of  well-washed,  dried  peas  in  a 
quart  of  water  six  hours.  Then  add  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  an  onion 
the  size  of  an  English  walnut,  and  let  come  quickly  to  a  boil.  Cover, 
remove  to  the  back  of  the  range,  and  simmer  gently,  so  as  not  to 
break  the  peas,  for  an  hour.  This  is  an  excellent  way  to  cook 
green  peas  also,  omitting  of  course  the  soaking  and  long  boiling. 
The  onion  may  be  removed  or  served  with  them. 

Colonial  Hats — One  coffeecup  of  stoned  and  chopped  raisins, 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and,  if  liked,  a  piece  of  citron  the  size  of  half  a 
dollar.  Mix  all  well.  Put  tablespoonfuls  of  this  mixture  on 
rounds  of  piecrust  from  six  to  seven  inches  in  diameter  and  very 
thinly  rolled.  Fold  together  from  three  directions,  so  that  the 
shape  will  resemble  the  name.  Leave  no  vent  in  the  dough,  but 
press  the  edges  so  firmly  together  that  not  a  drop  can  escape. 
When  all  are  laid  in  the  baking  pan,  brush  over  with  milk  in 
which  a  little  sugar  is  dissolved.    Bake  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Herman  S.  Piatt. 

No.  501  South  Mathews  avenue,  Urbana,  111. 


FRIDAY,  APRIL  THE  THIRTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Hominy   with   cream. 

Stewed  rhubarb.  Eggs  with  cream  sauce. 

Rice  waffles.  Cocoa. 


LUNCHEON. 

Saratoga  chips.  Cheese  fondu. 

Olives. 

Toasted  crackers.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Planked  shad.  Flaked  potatoes. 

Fried  egg  plant.  Lettuce  and  cress  salad. 

Caramel  custards.  Coffee. 


194  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

Planked  Shad — Purchase  a  plank,  at  least  two  inches  thick, 
made  from  hickory,  just  the  size  of  your  oven.  Have  it  planed 
out  in  the  middle,  so  that  the  juice  will  be  held  rather  than 
running  off  the  edge.  Have  your  tish  cleaned  and  dry,  put  it 
on  the  plank,  skin  side  down.  Then  baste  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  in 
the  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  When  ready  to  serve,  baste  again 
with  melted  butter,  and  place  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon  around 
fish.  Be  sure  and  have  the  plank  very  hot  when  you  place  the 
fish  upon  it.  Serve  on  the  plank  on  a  large  platter  or  tray  with 
a  napkin  laid  between. 

Fried  Egg  Plant — Peel  and  cut  the  plant  in  slices  less  than 
one-half  inch  thick.  Place  in  a  quart  of  water  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  for  two  hours;  drain  and  dip  each  slice  in  beaten 
egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  brown. 

Caramel  Custards — Put  a  half  cup  of  sugar  in  an  iron  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  melted.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  turn  this  into  the  bottoms  of  six 
custard  cups.  Beat  three  eggs  without  separating,  add  to  them 
one  and  a  half  cups  of  milk,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Mix  thoroughly  and  pour  into  the  cups. 
Stand  in  a  baking-pan  of  boiling  water  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  cold.  Mrs.  M.  A.  Rowan. 

No.  239  Fairview  Place,  Waukegan,  111. 


SATURDAY,  MAY  THE  FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges,  southern  style.  "Trilby"  omelet. 

Flannel  cakes  with  maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Lunch  rolls.  Oyster  pate  with  crumbs. 

Pickles.  Macaroni  tufts.  Cheese. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Soup   Julienne. 

Boiled  beef  with  parsley  sauce. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Tomatoes  with  rolled  cracker. 

Snowballs    with    cream    sauce. 

Dates.  Cafe  noir.  Nuts. 


"Trilby"  Onaelet  (new) — Break  five  eggs  into  a  bowl  and  add 
five  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one- 
quarter  teaspoon  pepper;    beat  to  a  froth.    Put  tablespoon  of  but- 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  195 

ter  in  frying-pan,  and  when  iiot  (do  not  burn)  pour  in  the  beat- 
en eggs;  now  with  a  four-tined  fork  lift  the  omelet  gently  in 
places  while  it  is  cooking;  omelets  cooked  in  this  way  do  not 
have  to  be  turned.  The  cold  water  used  with  the  egg  is  the  secret 
of  a  light,  flaky  omelet. 

Lunch  Rolls — One  quart  flour,  one-half  cake  compressed 
yeast,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter  (soft- 
ened), one  teaspoonful  salt.  First  place  one  pint  of  sifted  flour 
in  bread-pan,  and  pour  over  about  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  stir 
in  the  butter,  salt  and  sugar.  When  cool  add  the  yeast,  dissolved 
in  one-half  cup  lukewarm  water,  and  the  remaining  flour.  Set 
to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  knead  and  roll  out  about  one 
and  one-half  inches  thick;  cut  with  round  or  oblong  cutter;  let 
get  light,  then  bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 
Enough  for  two  meals.  These  are  alv\rays  successful  if  boiling 
v/ater  is  used,  and  are  always  sweet,  light  and  delicious. 

Oyster  Pate  with  Crumbs — One  pint  of  oysters;  add  one-half 
pint  milk,  one  teaspoonful  salt.  Let  boil  up  once,  then  take  one 
cupful  of  rolled  cracker  crumbs  mixed  with  cold  milk  (or  water) 
and  pour  into  oysters;  stir  and  boil  two  minutes;  add  teaspoon- 
ful butter  and  a  little  pepper.  Place  in  baked  pastry  shell  (or 
buttered  pudding-dish)  and  bake  in  oven  till  brown. 

Macaroni  Tufts — Break  one-quarter  pound  macaroni  into 
inch  pieces;  boil  in  salted  water  twenty  minutes.  Let  it  get  cold, 
then  pour  over  it  one  beaten  egg.  Pull  out  tufts  or  pieces  of  uni- 
form size  and  cook  in  hot  fat.  Serve  on  folded  napkin  with 
grated  cheese. 

Boiled  Beef  with  Parsley  Sauce — Boil  four  pounds  of  beef 
with  four  cloves,  one  inch  stick  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon 
summer  savory,'  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  in  two  quarts  of  water 
till  tender.  Strain  the  liquor  and  thicken  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
flour  mixed  in  one-half  cup  of  cold  water;  add  one-quarter  tea- 
spoonful of  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley;  pour 
over  the  beef  on  platter  and  serve. 

Mrs.  R.  W.  Boyd. 

Adrian,  Mich. 

Note  specially  the  use  of  boiling  water  for  rolls  and  bread, 
and  also  of  cold  water  in  omelets. 


SUNDAY,  MAY  THE  SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  dried  apricots. 

Chops  en  papillote.  Breakfast  puffs. 

Fried  graham  mush.  Maple  sirup. 

CofCee. 


196  THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Casserole    of    rice  and  meat,    tomato  sauce. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Sponge  drops.  Prune  souffle. 

Racahout  des  Arabes. 


DINNER. 

Split  pea  soup. 

Roast  fillet  of  veal.  Stuffed  potatoes. 

Mock  oysters.  Canteloupe  pickles. 

Orange  charlotte. 

Tea. 


Stewed  Dried  Apricots — One-half  pound  of  apricots.  Wash 
thoroughly  and  soak  over  night  in  one  quart  of  water.  The  next 
morning  cook  in  the  same  water  till  tender.  Remove  the  apri- 
cots and  add  one-half  cup  sugar  to  the  water.  Boil  the  water 
down  one-half  and  pour  over  the  fruit,  and  serve  cold.  Must  be 
prepared  the  day  before  using  in  order  to  be  thoroughly  cold  for 
breakfast. 

Fried  Graham  Mush — The  day  before  using  mix  one  cup  gra- 
ham flour  and  one  level  teaspoonful  salt.  Make  it  into  a  thin 
paste  with  two  cups  of  cold  water.  Stir  it,  a  little  at  a  time,  into 
one  cup  of  boiling,  frothing  water.  Cook  fifteen  minutes,  stirring 
often.  Turn  into  a  buttered  tin  with  straight  edges  and  in  the 
morning  take  out  of  the  mold  and  cut  in  slices.  Have  ready  a 
frjang-pan  in  which  has  been  melted  one  teaspoonful  of  butter. 
Put  in  the  mush  and  fry  slov/ly  until  a  delicate  brown.  Turn  and 
put  in  another  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  brown.  Serve  with 
maple  sirup.     Enough  for  tv/o  mornings. 

Chops  en  Papillote — Take  lamb  chops,  trim,  and  lay  on  but- 
tered papers.  Make  a  thick  sauce  with  one  cup  of  boiling  water, 
thickened  with  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  cooked  together,  and  flavored  with  one-quar- 
ter teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley. 
Spread  the  sauce  over  the  chops  in  thQ  papers,  fold  the  edges, 
place  in  a  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  for  ten  minutes. 
Serve  in  the  papers. 

Casserole  of  Rice  and  Meat — Boil  one  cup  of  rice  till  tender. 
Chop  very  fine  half  a  pound  of  any  cold  meat;  season  with  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful of  celery  salt  and  one  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped 
onion.  Add  one  beaten  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  cracker 
crumbs,  and  moisten  with  enough  hot  water  to  pack  it  easily. 
Butter  a  small  mold,  line  the  bottom  and  sides  half  an  inch 
deep  with  the  rice,  pack  in  the  meat,  cover  closely  with  rice  and 
steam  forty-five  minutes.  Loosen  it  around  the  edge  of  the  mold, 
turn  it  out  upon  a  platter  ancl  pour  tomato  sauce  over  it. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  197 

Tomato  Sauce — One-half  can  tomatoes,  one  cup  water  in 
whicli  has  been  dissolved  one  tablespoonful  cornstarch,  one 
tablespoonful  butter,  one-half  ceaspoonful  salt.  Stir  all  together 
and  simmer  ten  minutes,  stirring  often. 

Sponge  Drops — Pour  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  pov/dered  sugar, 
one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract  and  three-quarters  of  a  cup 
of  flour.  Beat  the  yolks  until  light.  Add  the  sugar  gradually 
and  beat  again.  Add  the  flavoring  and  beat.  Whip  the  whites 
until  stiff  and  cut  them  in  lightly;  then  sift  in  the  flour  and  fold 
it  in  carefully  without  stirring.  Drop  by  the  spoonful  on  a  but- 
tered pan  and  sprinkle  sugaj-  over  them  and  bake  fifteen  minutes 
in  a  very  slow  oven. 

Prune  Souflle — To  one  cup  stewed  prunes,  stoned  and  chop- 
ped, add  one-half  cup  sugar  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Mix  well.  Sprinkle  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  over 
the  top  and  bake  ten  minutes.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  of  one 
cup  whipped  cream,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  sugar  and  one- 
half  teaspoonful  vanilla,  whipped  thoroughly  together. 

Racahout  des  Arabes — One  teaspoonful  grated  chocolate,  two 
tablespoonfuls  rice  flour,  one-half  tablespoonful  arrowroot,  one 
tablespoonful  powdered  sugar.  Thqroughly  mix  and  ruli  these 
materials  together.  Take  two  scant  tablespoonfuls  of  the  mix- 
ture and  wet  with  one  cup  water.  Stir  slowly  into  one  -quart 
of  hot  milk  and  boil  five  minutes.  Very  healthful  and  nutritious. 
There  is  enough  of  the  mixture  for  two  days. 

Roast  Fillet  of  Veal— Get  a  thick  piece  of  veal  from  the  up- 
per part  of  the  leg  and  have  the  bone  removed.  Fill  the  cavity 
with  a  stuffing  made  of  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs  moistened  with 
one-half  cup  of  water,  one-third  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  powdered  thyme.  Tie  into  a  round  shape. 
Dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and  fiour.  Put  strips  of  pork  over  the 
top  and  bake.  Add  water  as  soon  as  the  flour  has  browned  and 
baste  often.  Cover  with  a  paper  to  prevent  burning  and  allow 
half  an  hour  to  a  pound. 

Orange  Charlotte — One-third  box  gelatine,  one-third  cup  cold 
water,  one-third  cup  boiling  water,  one  cup  sugar,  juice  of  one 
lemon,  one  cup  orange  juice  and  pulp,  whites  of  three  eggs.  Line 
a  bowl  with  lady-fingers,  or  sections  of  orange,  as  preferred. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  till  soft.  Pour  on  the  boiling 
water,  add  the  sugar  and  the  lemon  juice.  Strain  the  orange 
juice  and  pulp  and  add  with  a  little  of  the  grated  rind.  Set  in  a 
pan  of  very  cold  v/ater.  When  it  begins  to  harden  beat  it  till 
light.  Add  the  beaten  whites,  and  beat  together  till  stiff  enough 
to  drop.    Pour  into  the  mold.  Miss  Alice  A.  Huling. 

Wheaton,  DuPage  County,  111, 


198  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

MONDAY,  MAY  THE  THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  oranges  with   sugar. 

Oatmeal  blanc-mange.  Ham  toast. 

Radishes.  Johnnycake. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Salt  mackerel  with  cream  sauce. 

Broiled  potatoes.  *      Cream  waffles. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Beefsteak  and  kidney  pudding. 

Potato  snow.  Parsnip  fritters. 

Lettuce.  White  puffs,  lemon  sauce 

Cafe  au  lait. 


Oatmeal  Blanc-Mange- — Bring  one  .quart  of  sweet  milk  to  a 
boil  and  stir  in  one-half  cupful  of  fine  oajtmeal,  thinned  with  a 
half-cupful  of  water;  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  cook 
twenty  minutes,  stirring  well;  four  minutes  before  removing 
from  the  fire  stir  in  two  eggs  very  well  beaten.  Serve  each  dish 
with  cream  and  sugar. 

Ham  Toast — Mince  finely  a  quarter-pound  of  cooked  ham 
with  an  anchovy,  boned  and  washed;  add  a  dash  of  cayenne  and 
pounded  mace;  beat  up  an  egg,  mix  with  the  mince  and  add  a 
quarter-cupful  of  milk.  Put  on  fire  in  sauce-pan  for  three  min- 
utes and  serve  on  toasted  bread. 

Salt  Mackerel  with  Cream  Sauce — Soak  one  pound  of  mack- 
erel over  night  in  lukewarm  water,  changing  this  in  the  morn- 
ing for  cold  water;  rub  all  the  salt, off  and  wipe  dry;  grease 
your  gridiron  v/ith  suet  and  rub  the  fish  on  both  sides  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter;  then  broil  quickly  over  a  clear 
fire,  turning  with  a  cake  turner  so  as  not  to  break  it;  lay  upon 
a  hot- water  dish  and  cover  until  the  sauce  is  ready;  heat  a  tea- 
cupful  of  milk  tp  scalding;  stir  into  it  a  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch, wet  with  as  much  water;  when  this  thickens  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley;  beat  an  egg  light,  pour 
the  sauce  gradually  over  it,  put  the  mixture  again  over  the  fire 
and  stir  one  minute,  not  more;  pour  upon  the  fish  and  let  it 
stand,  covered,  over  the  hot  water  in  the  chafing-dish;  put  fresh 
boiling  water  under  the  dish  before  sending  to  table. 

Broiled  Potatoes — Cut  four  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  slices, 
lengthwise,  quarter  of  an  inch  thick;    dip  each  slice  in  two  table^ 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  199 

spoonfuls  of  wheat  flour  on  a  saucer  and  lay  them  on  a.  greased 
gridiron  over  a  bright  fire  of  coals;  when  both  sides  are  browned 
nicely  take  them  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  pour  an  ounce  of  melted  butter  over  them  and  serve 
hot. 

Cream  Waffles — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  and  one 
cup  of  flour,  stirred  smoothly  together;  add  a  saltspoon  of  salt. 
Gradually  mix  in  a  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  egg,  well  beaten,  and 
a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  water; 
pour  into  hot  waffle  irons;  bake  ten  minutes  and  spread  with 
butter  before  sending  to  table. 

Beefsteak  and  Kidney  Pudding — Divide  two  pounds  of  rump 
steak  into  inch-square  pieces,  and  two  kidneys,  each  into  eighth 
pieces.  Make  a  crust  of  six  ounces  of  finely  chopped  beef  suet 
and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt  rubbed  well  into  a  pound  of 
flour;  work  the  whole  to  a  smooth  paste  with  one-half  pint  of 
milk;  roll  it  out  and  line  a  deep  dish,  leaving  an  inch  of  crust 
to  overlap  the  edge  and  enough  left  for  the  top  crust.  Then 
cover  the  bottom  with  a  portion  of  the  steak  and  a  few  pieces  of 
kidnejs  season  with  a  light  sprinkling  of  pepper,  salt  and  flour; 
add  another  layer  of  steak,  kidney  and  seasoning.  Proceed  in 
this  manner  till  the  meat  is  all  used,  when  pour  in  sufficient  water 
to  come  within  two  inches  of  the  top  of  the  basin.  Moisten  the 
edge  of  the  crust,  cover  the  pudding  over,  press  the  two  crusts 
together  that  the  gravy  may  not  escape  and  turn  up  the  over- 
hanging paste.  Wring  out  a  cloth  in  hot  water,  flour  it  and  tie 
up  the  pudding.  Put  it  into  boiling  water  and  let  it  boil  four 
hours.  If  the  water  diminishes  always  replenish  with  some  hot 
from  a  kettle,  as  the  pudding  should  be  kept  covered  with  it  all 
the  time  and  not  allowed  to  stop  boiling.  When  the  cloth  is  re- 
moved cut  a  round  piece  in  the  top  of  the  crust  to  prevent  the 
pudding  bursting  and  send  it  to  the  table  in  the  basin,  either  in 
an  ornamental  dish  or  with  a  napkin  pinned  around  it.  Serve 
quickly. 

Potato  Snow — Choose  six  large  white  potatoes,  as  free  from 
spots  as  possible;  boil  them  in  their  skins  in  water  (to  which  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt  has  been  added)  until  perfectly  tender; 
drain  and  dry  them  thoroughly  by  the  side  of  the  fire  and  peel 
them.  Put  a  hot  dish  before  the  fire;  rub  the  potatoes  through 
a  coarse  sieve  on  to  this  dish;  do  not  touch  them  afterward,  or 
the  fiakes  will  fall,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

White  Puffs — Whisk  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  whipped  stiff, 
and  one  scant  cup  powdered  sugar  to  a  meringue,  and  add  this 
alternately  with  one  heaping  cup  of  flour,  well  sifted,  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  to  a  pint  of  milk;  add  the  grated 
peel  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  beat  until  the  mixture 
is  very  light  and  bake  in  buttered  cups  or  tins  ten  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven.  Turn  out  on  a  plate.  Sift  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
sugar  over  them  and  serve  with  lemon  sauce.  These  are  delicate 
in  texture  and  pleasing  to  the  eye. 

Lemon  Sauce — Put  in  a  tin  pail  a  mixture  of  one  cup  sugar, 


200  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK. 

half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  egg,  one  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind; 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  and  thicken  by  placing 
and  stirring  for  one  minute  over  steam  of  boiling  water  in  kettle. 

Cafe  au  Lait — Take  a  pint  each  of  hot  made  coffee  and  boiling 
milk;  strain  through  thin  muslin  into  coffee-pot,  to  get  rid  of 
the  grounds,  and  serve  hot.  Miss  Vera  Emma  England. 

No.  1339  Belmont  Avenue,  Lake  View. 


TUESDAY,  MAY  THE  FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

/kmhrosia.  Wafer.?. 

Fricasseed  eggs. 

Graham  cakes.  Maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

A;::paragus  in  ambush.  Stuffed  potatoes. 

Jelly-cake  fritters. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Catfish  soup. 

Mock  pigeons.  Summer  salad. 

Potato  puff.  Cheese  fondu. 

Frost  pudding.  Coffee. 


Wafers — One  pound  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  a  little 
salt.  First,  mix  with  sweet  milk  into  a  stiff  dough.  Second, 
roll  out  very  thin,  into  round  cakes.  Third,  roll  these  as  thin  as 
they  can  be  handled — should  be  no  thicker  than  writing  paper. 
Fourth,  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Graham  Cakes — Two  cups  graham  flour,  one  cup  white  flour, 
three  cups  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  one  full  teaspoonful  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  little  water,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  lard,  three  eggs  beaten  very  light.  Bake  at  once  on  a 
griddle. 

Asparagus  in  Ambush — First,  take  one  large  bunch  of  aspar- 
agus; chop  and  boil  in  just  water  enough  to  cook  it  tender.  Sec- 
ond, have  ready  a  half-dozen  stale  biscuits  or  rolls,  from  which 
you  have  cut  a  neat  top  slice  and  scraped  out  the  crumb;  set 
them  in  the  oven  to  crisp,  laying  the  tops  beside  them,  that  the 
cavities  may  be  well  dried.  Third,  put  into  a  saucepan  one-half 
pint  milk;  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  add  two  well-beaten  eggs; 
stir  until  thick,  then  add  a  spoonful  of  butter  and  season  with 
a  saltspoon  of  salt  and  pinch  of  pepper.    Fourth,  add  the  aspara- 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK    BOOK.  201 

gus  and  stir  until  very  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Fifth,  fill  the 
rolls  with  the  mixture;  put  on  the  tops,  rub  butter  over  and  set 
in  the  oven  for  three  minutes. 

Stuffed  Potatoes — First,  take  six  medium-sized,  fair  potatoes, 
bake  until  soft  and  cut  a  round  piece  off  the  top  of  each.  Second, 
scrape  out  the  inside  carefully  and  set  aside  the  empty  cases 
with  the  covers.  Third,  mash  the  inside  very  smoothly,  working 
into  it  while  hot  some  butter  and  cream — about  half  a  teaspoonful 
for  every  potato.  Fourth,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash 
of  pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  cold  meat  for 
each  potato.  Fifth,  work  it  very  soft  with  milk  and  stir  in  one 
well-beaten  egg  for  the  six  potatoes.  Sixth,  boil  up  once,  fill  the 
skins  with  the  mixture,  and,  replacing  the  caps,  return  to  the  oven 
for  three  minutes.    Send  to  table  in  a  napkin. 

Jelly-Cake  Fritters — First,  cut  some  stale  sponge  cake  or 
plain  cup  cake  into  rounds  with  a  cake-cutter.  Second,  fry  in  hot 
lard  and  butter.  Third,  dip  each  slice  for  a  second  in  hot  milk. 
Fourth,  lay  on  a  hot  dish  and  spread  with  strawberry  jam,  peach 
jelly  or  other  fine  conserve.    Eat  with  cream. 

Catfish  Soup — Few  persons  are  aware  into  what  a  variety  of 
tempting  dishes  this  much  abused  fish  can  be  made.  Three  half-' 
pound  catfish,  one-fourth  pound  salt  pork,  one  cup  of  milk,  one 
egg,  one  teaspoonful  celery-end.  First,  clean  the  fish  and  cut 
them  up.  Second,  chop  the  pork.  Third,  put  these  into  the  pot 
with  one  quart  water,  some  sweet  herbs  and  the  celery.  Fourth, 
boil  until  the  fish  is  in  rags  and  strain.  Fifth,  return  to  the  sauce- 
pan and  add  the  milk,  which  should  be  hot,  then  the  egg  beaten 
to  a  froth  and  a  lump  of  butter.  Sixth,  boil  up  once  and  serve 
with  dice  of  toasted  bread. 

Summer  Salad — Two  small  heads  of  lettuce,  one  teaspoonful 
green  mustard  leaves,  a  small  handful  of  watercresses,  three  ten- 
der radishes,  one  small  cucumber,  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful white  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  salt,  pepper 
and  made  mustard,  one-half  teacupful  vinegar  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful salad  oil.  First,  mix  the  dressing  by  rubbing  the  yolks  to  a 
powder  and  adding  the  sugar,  mustard,  pepper,  salt  and  oil.  Sec- 
ond, let  it  stand  five  minutes  and  beat  in  the  vinegar.  Third,  chop 
up  the  hearts  of  the  lettuce,  the  radishes  and  cucumber  into  very 
small  pieces.  Pour  over  the  dressing  and  stir  carefully,  not  to 
bruise  the  young  leaves. 

Mock  Pigeons — First,  take  the  bone  from  two  fillets  of  veal; 
flatten  them  with  the  broad  side  of  a  hatchet  and  spread  with  a 
forcemeat  of  seasoned  crumbs.  Second,  roll  up  these  and  bind 
in  oblong  shapes  with  string;  put  in  a  covered  dripping-pan  with 
two  cupfuls  of  water,  and  bake  for  two  hours.  Third,  when  done 
season  the  gravy  with  pepper,  salt  and  tomato  catchup  and  thicken 
with  browned  flour;  pour  half  of  it  over  the  meat  and  send  the 
remainder  to  the  table  in  a  boat. 

Frost  Pudding — One-half  package  gelatine,  three  eggs,  one 
pint  milk,  tv/o  cups  sugar  and  one  lemon.  First,  soak  the  gelatine 
one  hour  in  a  teacupful  cold  water.    Second,  add  one  pint  of  boil- 


202  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

ing  water  and  stir  till  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Third,  add  two-thirds 
the  sugar  and  the  lemon  juice.  Fourth,  beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  when  the  gelatine  is  quite  cold  whip  it  in 
a  spoonful  at  a  time.  Fifth,  when  it  is  very  stiff  pour  into  a  mold 
and  set  in  a  cold  place.  Sixth,  make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  yolks 
of  the  eggs  and  remainder  of  the  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla  and 
pour  around  the  base  of  the  meringue.  Mantie  L.  Hunter. 

No.  403  Mahoning  Avenue,  Warren,  O. 


WEDNESDAY,  MAY  THE  FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Graham  mush  with  cream. 

Eggs  brouille. 

Doughnuts. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Something  for  luncheon. 

Fresh  bread  and  butter. 

Cream  puffs.  Preserved  peaches. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Julienne  soup.  Crackers. 

,  Baked  whitefish.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Turnips.  Lettuce  with  salad  dressing. 

A  new  dessert.  Chocolate  cake. 

Coffee  gr  tea. 


Eggs  Brouille — Beat  six  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  milk  or  cream, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  sprinkling  of  pepper  together. 
Cut  two  mushrooms  into  dice  and  fry  for  one  minute  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter.  Pour  the  eggs  over  the  mushrooms  and  stir 
over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  thickens.  Take  from  fire  and  beat 
rapidly  until  the  eggs  become  thick  and  creamy.  Have  slices  of 
toast  on  hot  dish.  Heap  the  mixture  on  these  and  garnish  with 
parsley.    Very  nice. 

Something  for  Luncheon — A  good  dish  for  luncheon  is  made 
from  cold  meat,  either  lamb  or  veal,  chopped  and  mixed  with 
chopped  nuts,  in  the  proportion  of  twenty-eight  nuts  to  a  pint  of 
meat.  Blanch  nuts  before  using.  Season  this  quantity  with  a 
dash  of  pepper  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  bind  together 
with  a  beaten  egg.  Make  into  small  balls,  put  in  a  baking-dish 
with  a  half  pint  of  strained  tomato  poured  around  them  and  cook 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  203 

fifteen  minutes.  Put  the  balls  on  a.  hot  plate,  cook  the  tomato 
until  it  thickens,  season  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of. 
pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  serve  poured  around  the 
meat. 

Cream  Puffs — Boil  one  cup  of  water  and  one-half  cup  butter 
together  and  stir  in  one  cup  ilour,  stirring  until  smooth.  When 
cool  add  three  eggs.  Beat  well  and  drop  on  greased  tins  and  bake 
in  rather  hot  oven  thirty  minutes.  When  cool  slit  along  one 
side  with  a  sharp  knife  and  fill  v/ith  a  cream  made  as  follov/s: 
Beat  two  eggs  and  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar  until  light  and 
stir  into  one  pint  of  boiling  milk.  When  thick  remove  from  the 
stove,  cool  and  flavor  with  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Baked  Whitefish — Clean,  wash  and  wipe  a  three-pound  fish. 
Make  a  stuffing  of  one  and  one-half  cups  dry  bread  crumbs,  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt  and  a 
sprinkling  of  pepper,  moistened  with  one  beaten  egg.  Stuff  the 
fish  and  sew  it  up.  Lay  it  in  the  baking-pan,  pour  in  one  teacup 
of  vinegar  and  bake  one  hour,  basting  v/ith  butter  and  water. 
Take  it  up,  put  on  a  hot  platter  while  you  boil  up  the  gravy, 
thickened  with  tv/o  tablespoonfuls  of  browned  flour  and  seasoned 
with  one-third  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 

A  New  Dessert — Whip  a  pint  of  cream  to  a  froth  and  color 
a  very  pale  green  with  vegetable  coloring.  Soak  a  fourth  of  a 
box  of  gelatine  in  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  cold  water  until  soft,  then 
set  it  in  hot  v/ater  until  it  dissolves.  Stir  three  ounces  of  pow- 
dered sugar  into  the  whipped  cream.  Then  strain  in  the  gelatine 
and  mix  thoroughly,  but  lightly.  ¥7hen  the  mixture  begins  to 
thicken  add  one-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Add  half  a  cupful  of 
blanched  almonds  chopped  very  flne.  Pour  into  small  glasses 
ready  for  serving,  and  serve  very  cold. 

Chocolate  Cake— One  cup  of  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  two  eggs,  one-third  of  a  cup  of  milk,  two-thirds  of  a 
cup  of  chocolate  and  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  turned 
on  the  chocolate,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.    Bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling— Tv/o-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk  and  two  cups  of  sugar. 
Boil  ten  minutes;  take  from  the  stove  and  stir  until  it  creams. 

Bozeman,  Mont.  Mrs.  F.  W.  Van  Allen. 


THURSDAY,  MAY  THE  SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  bananas. 

Graham  mush,  with  butter  and  sirup. 

Tongue  toast.       Cinnamon  cake. 

Coffee. 


204  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Collops  in  batter.  Radishes. 

Brown  bread  and  butter. 

Charlotte  de  Pomme.  Fruit  cookies. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Mocli;  oyster  soup. 

Veal  potpie.  Spinach  a  la  creme. 

Bean  polenta.  Cucumber  pickles. 

Chocolate  pie.  Coffee. 


Baked  Bananas — Strip  off  one  side  of  the  banana  and  loosen 
the  shell.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  over  each.  Run 
them  into  a  quick  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Lift  carefully 
and  serve. 

Tongue  Toast — Take  cold  boiled  tongue,  mince  it  fine,  mix 
with  cream,  and  to  every  half  pint  of  the  mixture  allow  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Place  over  the  fire  and  let  simmer  two 
minutes.  Have  ready  some  toasted  bread,  butter  it,  place  on  a 
hot  dish  and  pour  the  mixture  over  it.    Send  to  the  table  hot. 

Cinnamon  Cake — Set  sponge  as  for  bread.  Take  one  pint  of 
sponge,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  one  cup  of  liour.  Stir  all  together  and  let  it  raise. 
Next  mix  in  flour  enough  to  make  dough  like  light  biscuit.  Roll 
out  one  inch  thick,  place  in  a  pan.  Sprinkle  it  with  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinna- 
mon, and  dot  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Set  in  a  warm 
place,  and  when  light  bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Collops  in  Batter — Use  rare  roast  beef  or  cold  veal.  Cut  into 
pieces  one  inch  thick,  two  inches  wide  and  three  inches  long. 
Put  a  tablespoonful  of  beef  drippings  or  butter  into  a  pan;  shred 
an  onion  and  brown  one  tablespoonful  of  it  in  the  hot  fat.  If 
there  is  gravy  left  from  a  previous  meal  add  half  a.  pint  to  the 
onion  in  the  pan.  Should  there  be  none  use  instead  half  a  pint 
of  hot  water  thickened  with  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  rubbed 
smooth  with  cold  water.  Add  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  half  as 
much  pepper.  When  it  boils  pour  over  the  meat  in  a  baking  dish 
and  cover  all  with  a  batter  made  as  follows:  Mix  one  cup  of  flour 
and  a  pinch  of  salt  with  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk;  stir  in  one 
egg  beaten  light  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake 
until  the  batter  is  a  delicate  brown,  which  will  be  about  twenty 
minutes. 

Charlotte  de  Pomme — Pare  and  quarter  eight  tart  apples  and 
put  them  into  a  kettle  with  two  cups  of  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of 
water.  Let  them  steam  gently  until  clear.  Line  a  deep  baking- 
dish  with  slices  of  sponge  cake,  turn  the  apples  in,  make  a  hole 
in  the  center  and  fill  with  currant  jelly.    Set  in  a  slow  oven  for 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  205 

one  hour.  Serve  cold  for  luncheon  with  sugar  and  cream.  This  is 
a  very  delicious  dessert. 

Fruit  Cookies — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  tv/o  of  rai- 
sins chopped,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  "sour  milk,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one-half  teaspoonfui  each  of  nutmeg 
and  clove.  Mix  in  just  flour  enough  to  roil,  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Mock  Oyster  Soup — Four  onions,  four  large  potatoes;  cook  In 
two  Quarts  of  water  until  soft;  mash  fine,  add  one  quart  of  cream 
or  rich  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  vv^ith  half  as  much  pep- 
per. 

Spinach  a  la  Creme — Four  quarts  of  spinach,  one  large  head 
of  lettuce,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful 
of  flour  mixed  with  half  a  pint  of  cream  or  sweet  milk.  After  the 
spinach  and  lettuce  have  been  cleaned  put  them  in  a  stew-pan 
with  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  boil  rapidly  for  five  minutes, 
after  which  turn  the  vegetables  into  a  colander  and  pour  a  quart 
of  cold  water  over  them.  Press  as  m.uch  water  as  possible  from 
the  vegetables  and  chop  very  fine.  Put  the  butter  into  a  stew- 
pan  on  the  fire.  Add  the  minced  vegetables  and  seasonings,  and 
cook  gently  for  fifteen  minutes;  add  fiour  and  cream  and  cook 
fifteen  minutes  longer.    Serve  on  small  squares  of  toast. 

Bean  Polenta — Wash  common  white  beans  (a  pint),  put  them 
into  two  quarts  of  cold  water  and  boil  until  soft  and  mealy.  This 
will  require  about  three  hours.  Add  two  tablespoons  of  molasses, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  of  mustard,  one-half  tablespoon  of  olive 
oil  or  butter,  one-half  .teaspoon  of  pepper,  one  tablespoon  of  vin- 
egar; stir  these  in  well  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  The  beans 
when  done  should  be  quite  dry.  Mrs.  G.  La  Bar. 

Perea,  N.  M. 


FRIDAY,  MAY  THE  SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 
Molded  farina,  cream,  sugar. 

Poached  eggs,  Spanish  style. 
Breakfast  fruit  cake. 
Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Scalloped  shad  roes.  Watercress. 

Cottage  cheese.  Spanish  shortcake. 

Peach  soiifla,e. 

Tea. 


206  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Leek  soup. 

Lettuce. 

Stuffed  baked  shad.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Rhubarb  fritters.  Frosted  rice. 

Coffee. 


Poached  Eggs,  Spanish  Style— Heat  an  earthen  dish  slowly 
and  melt  in  it  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  a  full  half-teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  small  onion, 
minced  very  fine;  or,  instead  of  onion,  use  parsley  and  sweet 
herbs,  or  a  combination  of  all  together.  Drop  in  six  eggs,  one  at 
a  time;  do  not  stir,  but  let  them  brown  a  little;  turn  carefully 
and  brown  on  the  other  side.     Serve  in  the  same  dish  as  hot  as 

possible. 

Breakfast  Fruit  Cake— One  pound  cold  boiled  potatoes  mashed 
smooth;  add  one  pound  flour,  half  pound  finely  chopped  suet,  a 
little  less  than  half  pound  of  currants  and  two  ounces  moist  sugar. 
A  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  should  be  mixed  with  the  flour 
in  its  dry  state.  Roll  out  the  dough  to  half-inch  thickness  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.    Cut  into  squares  and  serve  hot. 

Scalloped  Shad  Roes — Remove  roes  from  shad  and  boil  in 
water  with  a  little  vinegar;  lay  in  cold  water  five  minutes  and 
wipe  dry;  crumble  but  not  crush;  pound  yolks  of  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs  to  pov/der  and  beat  into  a  cup  of  drawn  butter;  add 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  quarter  teaspoon  pepper  and  then 
the  roes;  pound  into  a  layer  of  seasoned  crumbs  in  a  bake  dish 
and  cover  with  crumbs  (about  a  cup  of  crumbs  in  all) ;  stick  dots 
of  butter  over  the  top  and  bake  covered  until  it  begins  to  bubble; 
then  brown  on  upper  grating  of  oven. 

Spanish  Shortcake — Take  three  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon,  two  cups  of  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder;  stir  the  flour  in,  do  not  knead  it;  the  eggs,  butter  and 
sugar  should  be  beaten  together  till  very  light.  Bake  in  a  shallow 
tin;  when  it  is  done  spread  a  thin  frosting  over  the  top;  make 
this  of  the  white  of  one  egg,  a  little  pulverized  sugar  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  cinnamon;    set  it  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

Frosted  Rice — Boil  one  teacup  rice  in  milk  till  very  tender; 
add  saltspoon  salt.  Beat  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  this  in  a  deep 
dish.  Beat  three  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  and  a  little  grated  lemon.  Spread  over  rice  and  brown 
in  oven.    Put  on  ice  and  serve  cold. 

Leek  Soup — Cut  half-dozen  leeks  in  shreds  of  about  three- 
fourths  of  an  inch;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  and  fry  for  five  minutes;  add  two  quarts  of  boiling 
milk,  three  raw  potatoes  cut  in  small,  thin  squares;  boil  one-half 
hour;  add  one  tablespoonful  flour  rubbed  in  one  of  butter,  two 
small  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  parsley,  chopped 
fine;    boil  two  minutes  and  serve. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  207 

Stuffed  Baked  Shad — After  fish  is  thoroughly  cleaned,  stuff 
with  the  following:  Two  cups  of  breadcrumbs,  one  onion,  chopped 
fine,  butter  size  of  egg,  half-teaspoonful  pepper  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  half-cupful  of  tomatoes,  if  you  have  any,  or  may  be 
omitted.  Sew  up  fish;  sprinkle  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt; 
dredge  with  flour,  and  bake  one  hour,  basting  often,  and  serving 
with  parsley  or  egg  sauce. 

Rhubarb  Fritters — Peel  young  rhubarb  and  cut  the  stalks  into 
lengths  of  about  two  or  two  and  a  half  inches.  Make  a  batter  by 
mixing  six  large  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  a  pint  of  milk,  as 
smoothly  as  possible;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  well- 
beaten  eggs;  dip  each  piece  into  the  batter  and  fry  in  boiling 
lard  until  a  nice  golden  brown.  Serve  very  hot,  piled  high  on 
a  napkin,  and  well  powdered  over  with  sugar.  Half  this  quantity 
will  be  enough  for  a  small  dish. 

Peach  SouSie — Press  the  peaches  from  a  can  through  a  sieve, 
adding  half  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  whites  of  three 
eggs;  beat  well  with  an  egg-beater  five  or  six  minutes.  Then  take 
the  whites  of  six  or  seven  eggs  and  beat  them  to  a  stiff  froth; 
mix  well  together.  Put  this  on  a  dish  in  a  w^ll-heated  oven  five 
or  six  minutes  before  serving.    Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  on  top. 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Sunde. 

No.  328  South  Western  Avenue,  Chicago. 


SATURDAY,  MAY  THE  EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheatall,  sugar  and  cream. 

Watercresses.  Parsley  omelet. 

Popovers.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Kedgeree  with  lettuce  and  French  dressing. 
Thin-sliced  bread  and  butter. 

Sliced  bananas  with  cream. 
Tea. 


DINNER. 

Corn  soup. 

Roast  of  veal  stuffed,  horseradish. 

Scalloped  potatoes.  Radishes.         Parsnips  fried. 

Coffee  jelly  with  whipped  cream. 

Child's  ginger  wafers. 


Wheatall — To  one  quart  boiling  water  add  half  teaspoonful 
salt,  then  stir  in  one  teacupful  wheatall,  letting  it  run  through  the 
fingers  slowly  to  prevent  lumps;    stir  well;  cook  two  minutes, 


208  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

Corn  Soup — One  can  of  corn,  one  quart  of  milk,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper, 
one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch.  Let  the  corn,  with  a  quart  ot 
cold  water,  boil  in  a  double  boiler  for  one  hour;  strain  through  a 
colander;  mix  the  butter  and  cornstarch  together  and  add,  with 
the  milk 'heated.  Let  it  all  come  to  a  boil  and  serve.  (The  beaten 
white  of  an  egg  may  be  added  just  before  serving,  to  make  lighter, 
if  desired.) 

Scalloped  Potatoes — One-half  dozen  good-sized  potatoes  sliced 
raw,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Cover  bottom  of  baking  dish  with  a  thick  layer  of  potatoes,  season 
with  bits  of  butter,  onion,  pepper  and  salt;  then  a  layer  of  pota- 
toes, and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Cover  with  milk  and  bake 
slowly  about  two  hours. 

Coffee  Jelly  with  Whipped  Cream — Dissolve  one-quarter  of  a 
box  of  gelatine  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water;  add  this  to 
two  cupfuls  of  strong  coffee  (left  over  from  breakfast)  with  two 
and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  put  into  a  one-quart  mold, 
set  in  a  cold  place.  Whip  one  pint  of  cream  and  pour  over  it 
before  serving.  Miss  Elizabeth  H.  Baird. 

No.  465  Dearborn  Avenue,  Chicago. 


SUNDAY,  MAY  THE  NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Rhubarb  sauce. 

Chicago  muffins.  Pried  perch. 

Fried  potatoes.    . 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Giblet  patties.  Welsh  rarebit. 

Rusks,  Russian   tea. 


DINNER. 

Ox-tail  soup. 

Spring  lamb.  Mint  sauce. 

Green  fTeas.  Lettuce  and  beet  salad. 

Neapolitainoes. 

French  coffee. 


Chicago  Muffins — Mix  together  one  and  a  half  pints  of  flour, 
half  a  pint  of  cornmeal,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one 
■tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Work  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard,  beat  and  add  three  eggs  and  one 
pint  of  milk  and  beat  the  whole  quickly  into  a  firm  batter.    The 


THE  CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  209 

muffin  rings  should  not  as  a  rule  be  more  than  half  filled.  The 
griddle  should  be  hot  and  well  greased  to  receive  the  rings.  When 
the  batter  rises  to  the  top  the  muffins  are  usually  ready  to  turn. 
Serve  with  maple  sirup  if  you  have  it  on  hand. 

Giblet  Patties — Clean  one-half  pound  of  giblets  well,  stew  in  a 
pint  of  water* with  onion,  pepper,  salt,  thyme  and  a  little  parsley 
until  nearly  done;  add  one  pound  of  lean  beef  or  fresh  pork,  cut 
in  small  strips  and  stew  with  giblets  fifteen  minutes;  thicken  with 
one  tablespoonful  fiour.  Puff  paste  for  giblets:  One  quart  of 
flour,  one  pound  of  lard,  salted;  mix  fiour  and  lard  together,  a 
little  baking  powder  will  improve  it;  mix  with  ice-cold  water, 
handle  quickly;  put  under  crust  in  patty-pans,  and  fill  with  giblets, 
cover  with  crust  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Russian  Tea — Pare  and  slice  one  juicy  lemon,  lay  a  piece  in 
the  bottom  of  each  teacup,  sprinkle  with  a  little  sugar  and  pour 
hot  tea  made  of  best  uncolored  Japan  on  the  lemon.  Do  not  use 
cream. 

Ox-Tail  Soup— Cut  one  ox-tail  into  joints  and  fry  brown  in 
good  dripping.  Slice  three  onions  and  two  carrots  and  fry  in  the 
same  dripping  when  the  ox-tail  has  been  taken  out.  Tie  these 
with  thyme  and  parsley  in  a  cheese  cloth  bag  and  drop  into  soup- 
pot  containing  four  quarts  of  water.  Put  in  the  ox-tail  and  one 
pound  of  beef  cut  in  fine  strips;  let  simmer  several  hours;  grate 
over  these  two  carrots,  with  a  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  add  a  little  celery  seed  if  you  have  it;  strain  and 
thicken  with  browned  fiour.    Boil  fifteen  minutes. 

Mint  Sauce — Use  the  young  leaves  of  mint,  chopped  fine,  add- 
ing two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  three  of  mint;  after  mixing 
add  six  tablespoonfuls  of  cider  vinegar.  The  same  should  be  made 
in  advance  of  meal  in  order  to  get  the  full  fiavor  of  the  mint. 

Lettuce  and  Beet  Salad — Take  crisp,  fresh  lettuce,  wash  and 
wipe  dry;  pile  in  circle  in  salad  bowl;  cut  boiled  beets  into  hearts, 
stars  and  diamonds,  with  vegetable  cutters;  place  in  center  of 
salad  bowl  and  serve  with  salad  dressing. 

Neapolitainoes — Make  enough  puff-paste  for  a  pie;  roll  into 
a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  strips  three  inches  long  and 
one  and  a  half  inches  in  width.  Bake  in  quick  oven;  when  done 
spread  half  of  the  strips  with  jam  or  jelly  and  put  the  other  half 
over,  forming  pairs  with  jelly  between.  Cover  with  frosting  or 
dust  with  sugar.  Mrs.  P.  A.  Vanderpool. 

Box  337,  Lake  Geneva,  Wis. 


MONDAY,  MAY  THE  TENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas.     . 
Fried  cornmeal  mush. 
Radishes.      Broiled  breakfast  bacon.      Buttered  toast. 

Coffee. 


210  THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Fruit  salad.  Minced  ham. 

Thin  buttered  bread. 

Young  onions. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Fresh  boiled  beef.  Horseradish  sauce. 

Browned  mashed  potatoes. 

Asparagus. 

Cup  rice.  Pound  cake. 

Coffee. 

Fruit  Salad — Pare  and  slice  thin  three  oranges  and  two  apples; 
serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  sauce. 

Mayonnaise  Sauce — One  egg  beaten  light;  olive  oil  and  lemon 
juice.  Add  oil  and  lemon  alternately,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  beat- 
ing steadily  until  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper. 

Minced  Ham — Take  small  pieces  of  cold  boiled  ham,  which 
cannot  be  used  to  slice.  Chop  fine  with  three  or  four  medium- 
sized  pickles  and  spoonful  made  mustard.    Form  into  a  mound. 

Fresh  Boiled  Beef— Wash  in  cold  water  four  pounds  brisket. 
Put  into  boiling  water  and  skim.  Add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
ix  few  whole  peppers,  one  sliced  onion  and  one  sliced  carrot.  Boil 
almost  two  hours.  Slice,  pour  over  just  a  little  stock,  garnish 
with  parsley,  and  over  all  pour  the  sauce. 

Horseradish  Sauce — Put  in  saucepan  one-third  cup  butter  and 
melt.  Stir  in  one-half  cup  flour.  When  hot  pour  in  one  pint  boil- 
ing milk,  stir  briskly  to  a  smooth  sauce,  let  it  boil  twenty  min- 
utes, season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper,  strain,  add  two  stalks  grated  horseradish. 

Cup  Rice — Boil  sufficient  rice  for  five  people.  When  done  add 
one  cup  seeded  raisins.  Pour  into  small  cups  until  cold.  Turn 
out  into  dishes  and  pour  over  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with 
nutmeg. 

Pound  Cake — One  pound  powdered  sugar,  one  pound  butter, 
one  pound  flour  and  ten  eggs.  Rub  butter  and  sugar  together  ten 
minutes,  add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  three  at  a  time,  and  then  the 
flour.    Flavor  with  lemon  and  mace.    Sufficient  for  several  meals. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Landis. 

No.  1115  North  Clark  Street,  Chicago. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK,       211 
TUESDAY,  MAY  THE  ELEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

An  excellent  breakfast  dish. 

Drop  biscuits,  with  butter. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cheese  fondu. 

Bread  and  butter.  Radishes. 

Comfits.  Maple  sirup. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Brazilian  stev/. 

Browned  whole  potatoes. 

Asparagus  en  canape. 

Strawberry  cream. 

Coffee. 


An  Excellent  Breakfast  Dish — Add  to  one  pint  of  cold  minced 
meat  (any  kind)  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs;  season 
with  two-thirds  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper; 
mix  thoroughly;  divide  the  mixture  in  five  parts,  spread  in 
small  saucers;  place  a  piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  a  nutmeg 
in  each.  Break  an  egg  on  top  of  each,  set  in  a  hot  oven;  when 
they  begin  to  cook  dust  lightly  with  finely  rolled  crackers.  Serve 
hot. 

Drop  Biscuit — One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  a  lump  of  lard  the  size  of  a  small  walnut,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt;  sift  the  baking  powder  in  the  flour,  add  the  salt,  rub 
the  lard  into  the  flour;  add  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff 
batter,  from  one  pint  to  one  pint  and  a  half.  Stir  well;  drop  in 
greased  pan;    bake  in  hot  oven. 

Cheese  Fondu — One  pint  sweet  milk,  one  bowl  bread  crumbs, 
one  bowl  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces,  stir  until  smooth;  add  one 
beaten  egg,  saltspoon  of  salt,  then  set  away  until  half-hour  be- 
fore using.  Place  in  oven  long  enough  to  brown,  in  dish  in  which 
it  is  served. 

Comfits — Beat  two  eggs,  add  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  pinch  of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder  stirred  in  three  cups  of  flour;  beat  all- together  until 
smooth;  drop  half  a  dessertspoonful  in  hot  lard;  brov^n  lightly; 
turn  them  gently. 

Brazilian  Stew — Two  pounds  veal  cut  in  small  pieces,  one- 
half  pound  salt  pork  sliced  thin,  four  quarts  water,  three  table- 
spoons vinegar;  boil  one  hour;  skim  thoroughly;  after  skim- 
ming   add    one    chopped    onion    and    two    chopped    turnips, 


212  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

one-quarter  teaspoon  pepper.     Then  place  all  in  a  pan,  put  in 
oven  and  stew  slowly  two  hours.    Delicious. 

Asparagus  en  Canape — Cut  in  half-inch  pieces  the  tender 
parts  of  two  bunches  of  asparagus;  boil  until  tender  in  sufficient 
water  to  cover,  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt;  while  cooking  cut 
five  slices  of  bread  two  inches  thick,  trim  in  square  pieces;  scoop 
out  a  well  in  center  of  slice,  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  place 
in  oven  to  brown.  Drain  asparagus;  put  pint  of  milk  in  dish 
and  set  in  another  dish  of  hot  water;  when  hot  add  four  beaten 
eggs,  stir  until  smooth;  season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  two 
dashes  of  pepper  and  butter  size  of  an  egg,  then  stir  in  asparagus, 
fill  squares  with  mixture;    serve  hot. 

Strawberry  Cream — Soak  one-half  box  gelatine  in  one-half 
cup  of  cold  water  until  soft;  dissolve  in  one-half  cup  boiling  wa- 
ter, then  strain  through  flannel  bag.  Mash  one  quart  strawber- 
ries, add  one  cup  sugar,  rub  through  a  sieve;  add  gelatine  water, 
stir  until  thick,  after  which  add  one  pint  sweet  whipped  cream" 
and  stir  all  together.  The  juice  of  half  a  lemon  added  to  gelatine 
water  is  an  improvement.  After  the  cream  is  stirred  well  it 
should  cool  thoroughly,  when  it  will  be  like  a  fine  sponge  in  tex- 
ture and  a  beautiful  pink  color.  Elizabeth  Barber. 

Hastings,  Mich. 


WEDNESDAY,   MAY  THE  TWELFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 

Chops.  ,     Saratoga  chips. 

Buttered  toast.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 
Golden  chestnut  salad.  French  rolls. 

Iced  apples.  Tea. 

DINNER. 

Chicken  cream  soup. 

"Potato  snow.  Chicken  souffle. 

Stewed  tomatoes. 

Cranberry  tart  pie.  American  cheese. 

Chocolate. 


Golden  Chestnut  Salad — Shell,  boil  and  blanch  unttl  tender, 
one  pint  of  chestnuts.  Drain,  dust  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Hard- 
boil  two  eggs.  At  serving  time  arrange  lettuce  in  a  salad  bowl, 
put  the  chestnuts  over  and  then  a  nice  French  dressing,  using 
lemon  juice  instead    of    vinegar.    Hold  a  small    sieve  over  the 


THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  213 

bowl,  rub    the    yolks    through    it,  v/ith  which  cover    the  salad 
lightly. 

Iced  Apples — Pare  and  core  one-half  dozen  large  apples;  fill 
with  sugar  and  a  little  butter  and  nutmeg;  bake  until  nearly 
done.  Let  cool  and  remove  to  another  plate.  Ice  tops  and  sides 
v/ith  caking  ice  and  brown  lightly.     Serve  with  cream. 

Chicken  Cream  Soup — Cut  an  old  chicken  into  quarters,  put 
it  into  a  soup-kettle  with  half  a  pound  of  corned  ham  and  an 
onion;  add  three  quarts  of  cold  water.  Bring  slowly  to  a  gentle 
boil  and  keep  this  up  until  the  liquid  has  diminished  one-third 
and  the  meat  drops  from  the  bones;  then  add  one-half  cup  of 
rice.  Season  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  a  bunch  of 
chopped  parsley.  Cook  slowly  until  the  rice  is  tender;  then  the 
meat  should  be  taken  out.  Stir  in  two  cups  of  rich  milk  thick- 
ened with  a  little  fiour. 

Cranberry  Tart  Pie — Wash,  pick  and  stev/  berries  in  just 
enough  water  to  cover  them.  When  they  burst  open,  sweeten 
well  and  mash  smootl).  Line  pie-plate  with  thin  puff-paste,  fill 
and  lay  strips  across  the  top;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  You 
may  rub  berries  through  a  colander  to  free  from  skins. 

Mrs.  H.  A.  Sampson. 

Mitchell.  S.  D. 


THURSDAY,  MAY  THE  THIRTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Steamed  rhubarb. 

Chartreuse  of  fish.  Gluten  gems. 

Rice  crusts,  v^^hite-sugar  sirup. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 
Curried  eggs.  Buttered  toast. 

Radishes.  Jumbles. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Sago  soup.  Crisped  crackers. 

Pricandeau  of  veal.  Potato  croquettes. 

Creamed  asparagus. 

Cornstarch  meringue.  Vanilla  wafers. 

Tea. 


Steamed  Rhubarb — Wash,  peel  and  cut  the  rhubarb  into  inch 
pieces.  Put  it  into  a  double  boiler;  add  sugar  in  the  proportion 
of  one  cup  of  sugar  for  a  pint  of  fruit,  and  cook  till  tender.  Do 
not  stir.  If  the  rhubarb  is  very  sour  pour  boiling  water  over  it 
and  let  it  stand  five  minutes,  then  drain  and  steam.    Serve  cold. 


214  THE  CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

Rice  Crusts — Cook  one  cup  cold  boiled  rice  in  the  double 
boiler  with  one-half  cup  milk  until  the  rice  is  very  soft.  Add  one 
tatalespoonful  of  sugar,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one  beaten  egg  and 
flour  enough  to  make  it  hold  together.  Spread  on  a  tin,  having 
the  mixture  one-third  of  an  inch  thick.  Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven 
till  brown.    Split  and  eat  with  sirup. 

White-Sugar  Sirup — One  cup  sugar,  one-third  cup  water,  one 
teaspoonful  butter.  Boil  the  sugar  with  the  water  until  it  thick- 
ens slightly.  Add  the  butter  and  serve  hot  as  soon  as  the  butter 
is  melted. 

Chartreuse  of  Fish — Take  one  cup  of  any  cold  fish,  flake  it 
and  season  with  one  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper, 
and  moisten  with  a  little  cream.  Take  the  same  quantity  of  sea- 
soned mashed  potatoes  and  two  hard-boiled  eggs.  Butter  a  small 
mold  and  put  in  alternate  layers  of  potatoes,  fish  and  slices  of 
egg.  Steam  twenty  minutes,  turn  out  upon  a  hot  platter  and  gar- 
nish with  parsley. 

Gluten  Gems — Two  cups  gluten  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful 
salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  sugar, 
one  egg,  two  cups  water.  Sift  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour, 
add  the  water,  sugar  and  salt,  and  then  the  beaten  egg.  Bake  in 
very  hot  buttered  gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven  half  an  hour. 

Jumbles — ^One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  two  cups  of 
flour,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  milk,  one  heaping  teaspoonful 
baking  powder.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  milk  and  beat- 
en egg,  and  the  baking  powder  mixed-  with  the  flour.  Roll  out 
the  mixture  one-third  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  doughnut  cut- 
ter, sprinkle  granulated  sugar  over  and  bake  a  delicate  brown. 

Sago  Soup — One  quart  stock,  two  tablespoonfuls  sago,  one 
scant  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  saltspoonful  pepper.  Wash  the 
sago  until  it  comes  clear,  put  it  to  cook  in  cold  water;  let  it  heat 
slowly  until  quite  tender,  then  add  it  to  the  boiling  stock  and 
serve. 

Crisped  Crackers — Split  butter  crackers  and  spread  with  but- 
ter; put  them,  the  buttered  side  up,  into  a  pan  and  brown  in  a 
hot  oven.    They  are  delicious  in  fish  chowder  and  oyster  stews. 

Pricandeau  of  Veal — Get  three  pounds  of  lean  veal  from  the 
top  of  the  leg.  Trim  and  rub  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour. 
Cut  two  small  onions  into  dice  and  fry  them  till  a  light  brown  in 
salt-pork  fat.  Take  out  the  onions  and  brown  the  meat  all  over 
in  the  fat,  adding  more  fat  if  needed.  Put  the  meat  into  a  pan 
on  skewers  to  keep  it  from  sticking.  Add  one  quart  of  boiling 
water  and  one  tablespoonful  of  mixed  herbs,  tied  in  a  bag.  Cover 
closely  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  three  hours,  basting  every 
thirty  minutes.  Turn  over  in  an  hour  and  a  half;  add  more 
water  so  as  to  have  one  pint  left  for  gravy.  When  done  take  up 
the  meat  and  remove  the  herbs  from  the  gravy.  Thicken  the 
gravy  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  wet  in  a  little  cold  water, 
add  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  pepper.  Cook 
five  minutes  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  meat. 

Potato  Croquettes — One    pint  of    hot    mashed    potatoes,  one 


THE  CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  215 

tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt,  and  the 
yolk  of  one  egg.  Mix  all  but  the  egg,  and  beat  very  light.  When 
slightly  cool,  add  the  yolk  of  the  egg  and  mix  well.  Rub  through 
a  sieve  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  Shape  into 
round  balls,  then  into  rolls.  Roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  then  dip 
in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  crumbs  again.  Pry  in  smoking  hot 
lard  one  minute.    Drain  and  serve  in  the  form  of  a  pyramid. 

Creamed  Asparagus — Wash  carefully  and  break  (not  cut) 
into  inch  pieces  as  far  as  each  stalk  can  be  broken.  When  it 
will  not  snap  off  quickly,  the  stalk  is  too  tough  to  be  used.  Cook 
in  boiling  salted  water  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  and  make  a  white 
sauce  of  one  cup  of  the  water  in  which  the  asparagus  was  cooked 
and  one  cup  of  milk,  thickened  with  tvv^o  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
flour  and  two  tablespoonfuls  butter  cooked  together;  season  with 
one  saltspoonful  salt  and  half  a  saltspoonful  v/hite  pepper.  Have 
ready  oblongs  of  toast.  Put  the  asparagus  on  them  and  pour  the 
white  sauce  over  all. 

Cornstarch  Meringue — One  pint  hot  milk,  beaten  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one-half 
saltspoonful  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  cornstarch,  wet  with  enough  milk  to  pour.  Cook  all 
together  in  a  double  boiler  twenty  minutes.  Pour  into  a  pudding- 
dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar  gradually  and  beat  till  stiff  enough  to  keep  in 
shape.  Put  the  meringue  on  the  custard,  set  in  the  oven  and 
brown  the  top.     Serve  with  vanilla  wafers. 

Miss  Alice  A.  Huling. 

Wheaton,  DuPage  County,  111. 


FRIDAY,   MAY  THE  FOURTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas  and  cream. 

Bacon  and  eggs.  Baked  potatoes. 

Graham  gems.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  tongue.  V/arm  biscuit. 

Moonshine.  Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Bean  soup. 
Baked  fish,  with  dressing  and  sauce. 

Turnips,  Potato  croquettes. 

Apple  batter  pudding,  caramel  sauce. 

Tea. 


216  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Moonshine — This  dessert  combines  a  pretty  appearance  with 
palatable  flavor,  and  is  a  convenient  substitute  for  ice  cream. 
Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  in  a  broad  plate  to  a  very  stiff  froth, 
then  add  gradually  six  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  (to  make  it 
thicken  use  more  sugar  up  to  a  pint),  beating  for  not  less  than 
thirty  minutes,  and  then  beat  in  about  one  heaping  tablespoon 
of  preserved  peaches  cut  in  tiny  bits  (or  some  use  one  cup  of 
jelly),  and  set  on  ice  until  thoroughly  chilled.  In  serving  pour 
in  each  saucer  some  rich  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  va- 
nilla.    This  quantity  is  enough  for  seven  or  eight  persons. 

Bean  Soup — Boil  a  small  soup  bone  in  about  two  quarts  of 
water  until  the  meat  can  be  separated  from  the  bone;  remove 
bone,  add  a  coffeecup  white  beans  which  have  been  soaked  for 
two  hours,  boil  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  add  three  potatoes,  half 
a  turnip  and  a  parsnip,  all  sliced  fine;  boil  half  an  hour  longer, 
and  just  before  serving  sprinkle  in  a  few  dry  bread  crumbs;  sea- 
son with  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoon  salt  and  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon pepper. 

Turnips — Pare,  slice  and  cut  in  pieces  an  inch  square;  boil 
till  nearly  done  in  as  little  water  as  possible;  to  one  quart  of 
turnips  add  one  tablespoon  sugar,  a  little  salt;  when  boited  al- 
most dry  add  three  tablespoons  cream  and  a  beaten  egg  and 
serve. 

Apple  Batter  Pudding — Peel  and  slice  very  thin  four  large 
apples;  make  a  batter  of  two  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  one  cup  sugar, 
one  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  boiling 
water  (put  in  last) ;  put  layer  of  apples  in  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle 
bits  of  butter  and  handful  sugar  over  same,  then  batter,  repeat- 
ing until  dish  is  full,  having  batter  come  on  top.  Steam  one  hour, 
and  eat  hot,  with  caramel  sauce. 

Caramel  Sauce — One  cupful  granulated  sugar,  one  cupful 
water.  Put  the  sugar  into  an  iron  sauce-pan,  stir  with  a  wooden 
spoon  over  a  quick  fire  until  the  sugar  melts  and  turns  an  amber 
color,  then  add  the  water.  Let  boil  two  minutes  and  turn  out 
to  cool.  Mrs.  Agnes  M.  Dunning. 

Huron.  Beadle  County,  South  Dakota. 


SATURDAY,   MAY  THE   FIFTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cracked  wheat  and  butter. 

Mock  quail  on  toast.  Radishes. 

Breakfast  rolls.  Cocoa. 

LUNCHEON. 
Fish  croquettes.  Potato  puff. 

Egg  salad.  Rice  muffins. 

Molasses  cookies.         Tea. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  217 

■     DINNER. 

Soup  en  reverie.  Favorite  stew  of  beef, 

Mushrooms  and  potatoes,  with  sauce. 

Delicate  salad.  Wafers.  , 

Cheese  a  la  delicatesse. 
Rhubarb  dumplings,  golden  sauce. 


Mock  Quail  on  Toast — To  prepare;  select  two  medium-sized 
pork  shanks,  scrape  well,  wash  thoroughly  and  wipe  dry.  Place 
a  plate  in  the  bottom  of  an  iron  kettle  and  place  the  shanks 
thereon.  Pour  over  three  pints  of  boiling  water  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  boil  steadily  until  the  flesh  will  readily  fall  from 
the  bones.  Pour  off  the  liquor  into  a  pan,  lift  out  the  plate  of 
meat  and  set  away  to  use  as  required;  or  proceed  to  prepare 
this  dish  named  by  selecting  unbroken  parts  of  the  meat  about 
three  inches  long.  Lay  them  in  a  plate,  in  a  steamer,  over  hot 
salted  water.  While  steaming  prepare  a  sauce  by  reheating  one 
cupful  of  the  pot  liquor  with  one-half  cupful  of  cream,  one  salt- 
spoon  of  salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  Qf  white  pepper,  a  pinch  of 
nutmeg'  (grated),  if  liked.  Prepare  five  pieces  of  white  bread 
toast,  butter  slightly,  lay  a  piece  of  meat  on  each  slice  of  toast, 
place  on  a  platter  and  pour  sauce  over.  If  the  sauce  is  preferred 
thickened,  add  one-half  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  rubbed  smooth 
in  milk,  and  allow  to  boil  up  once  before  pouring  over  toast.  A 
very  dainty  dish. 

Fish  Croquettes — Stir  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of 
flour  together  in  a  sauce-pan  over  the  fire  and  two-thirds  cup  of 
milk  (water  will  do).  Boil  up  once  and  add  one  small  half -tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  quarter  as  much  pepper,  then  remove  and  stir 
in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Rub  a  deep  plate  with  salad  oil,  pour 
the  mixture  in  and  stir  in  gently  one  cupful  of  flakes  of  cold 
cooked  flsh.  Allow  to  cool  thoroughly.  Make  out  into  cork- 
shaped  rolls.  Wet  the  hands  to  prevent  sticking.  Roll  in  sifted 
bread  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg;  roll  again  in  bread  crumbs, 
lay  in  a  wire  basket,  hang  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  a  delicate 
brown.  Lift  out  with  a  skimmer,  lay  on  brown  paper  a  moment. 
These  are  excellent.  The  finer  the  bread  crumbs,  the  more  sure 
one  is  of  success. 

Soup  en  Reverie — Cleanse  well  and  cook  half  a  pound  of  fresh 
spinach  in  one  pint  of  cold  water  until  it  is  soft  enough  to  pass 
through  a  sieve.  Add  to  it  three  cupfuls  of  unsalted  beef  stock,  pass 
through  a  sieve,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-third  teaspoon 
of  pepper,  and  set  over  the  fire.  Then  add  five  fried  rice  balls, 
five  fried  egg  balls;  boil  five  minutes,  add  five  croutons  and  serve 
in  cups. 

Favorite  Stew  of  Beef,  Mushrooms  and  Potatoes  with  Sauce — 
Three  and  one-half  pounds  of  rump  from  beef;  wipe  thoroughly 
and  place  in  pot  with  five  pints  of  boiling  v/ater  and  cook  slowly 
and  steadily,  turning  and  lifting  occasionally  so  it  will  cook 
evenly;    if  necessary  to  add  more  water,  add  only  boiling  water. 


218  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

using  as  little  as  possible.  Cook  this  one  hour,  then  add  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  pepper. 
Smother  gently  two  hours  longer,  when  there  should  be  about 
one  cup  of  sauce  in  kettle.  Add  seven  good-sized  potatoes,  cover 
very  tightly  and  steam  thirty  minutes;  do  not  allow  to  scorch. 
Remove  meat  and  set  in  warming  oven,  and  as  soon  as  the  pota- 
toes are  brown  and  tender  lay  on  platter  around  meat.  Set  kettle 
over  the  fire,  add  half  a  can  of  mushrooms,  stir  and  fry  carefully 
eight  minutes;  then  add  one-half  cup  cold  water,  half  a  cup  of 
cream  and  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a 
little  cream;  stir  up  well  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Take  up  the  mush- 
rooms, place  around  the  platter  with  the  potatoes.  Serve  sauce  in 
sauce  tureen. 

Delicate  Salad — One  head  of  lettuce,  six  breakfast  radishes 
(one  cucumber,  if  in  season)  and  one-half  pint  of  the  cold  boiled 
pork  shank.  Pick  the  meat  into  flakes;  use  a  salad  plate;  arrange 
alternately  in  layers  as  follows:  Wash  the  lettuce,  wipe  quite 
dry  by  pressing  in  a  napkin;  slice  the  unpeeled  radishes  thinly; 
peel  and  slice  the  cucumber  thinly;  line  the  plate  with  lettuce 
leaves,  sprinkle  on  lightly  one-third  of  the  pork,  a  layer  of  rad- 
ishes, then  some  cucumber  slices,  lettuce,  pork,  radishes,  cucum- 
bers, and  so  continue  until  complete.    Pour  over — 

White  Mayonnaise  Without  Oil — Put  the  yolks  of  two  raw 
eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and 
one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  a  saucepan  over  hot  water; 
stir  continuously.  When  it  begins  to  thicken  add  by  degrees  two 
more  tablespoons  of  butter.  When  thick  and  smooth  strain  into 
a  bowl  for  future  use.  When  ready  to  serve  stir  in  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  whipped  cream,  and,  if  preferred,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  vinegar  may  be  added. 

Rhubarb  Dumplings — Cut  up  and  cook  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  rhubarb  in  one  heaping  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup 
of  hot  water.  Cook  seven  minutes.  Make  a  paste  of  one-half  cup 
of  flour,  scant  half-cup  of  butter  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder,  bind  together  with  cold  water,  roll  out,  cut  in  four-inch 
rounds.  Place  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  stewed  rhubarb  in  each 
round,  gather  up  the  dough  into  balls,  pinch  the  edges  together, 
brush  with  milk,  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Bake  in  hot  oven.  Serve 
with  the  remaining  sauce,  to  which  has  been  added  a  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut.  Thicken  with  one  teaspoon  of 
cornstarch  (or  arrowroot)  dissolved  in  one  tablespoonful  of  cold 
water.     Boil  up.     Serve  hot.  Mrs.  Edith  Uhlig. 

Lock  Box  56,  Holdrege,  Neb. 


THE  CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  219 

SUNDAY,  MAY  THE  SIXTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  rhubarb. 

Broiled  shad.  Broiled  potatoes. 

Wheat  muffins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Deviled  clams. 

Lettuce  sandwiches. 

Lemon  jelly. 

Tea,  hot  or  iced. 


DINNER 

Cream  of  cheese  soup.  Crackers. 

Veal  cutlet  au  gratin.  Riced  potatoes. 

Asparagus  on  toast. 

Dandy  pudding. 


Stewed  Rhubarb  or  Pieplant — Wash  the  stalks  well  in  cold 
water;  if  very  tender  do  not  skin,  otherwise  remove  the  outer 
skin;  cut  in  one-half-inch  pieces,  put  into  a  porcelain  saucepan 
or  into  a  white  baking-dish,  cover  with  one-half  the  weight  of 
the  rhubarb  in  white  sugar,  and  place  on  back  of  stove  to  cook 
slowly.  It  will  soon  make  a  juice;  cover  and  let  cook  until  per- 
fectly tender.     It  requires  no  water  cooked  in  this  way. 

Broiled  Shad — The  most  delicate  way  to  cook  a  shad  is  to 
broil  it.  Select  one  whose  flesh  is  firm  and  gills  bright  red.  After 
the  fish  is  cleaned  wash  in  cold  water,  wipe  it  and  salt  well.  The 
fish  should  be  split  down  the  back  for  broiling  and  the  backbone 
taken  out  with  a  sharp  knife  (although  this  latter  is  not,  of  course, 
necessary),  and  the  fins  trimmed  off.  Rub  the  broiler  with  butter 
or  bacon  drippings  so  the  fish  will  not  stick  to  it;  broil  over  clear 
coals,  quickly  at  first,  then  very  slowly,  allowing  about  ten  min- 
utes for  each  inch  of  thickness.  In  broiling  the  inside  should  be 
exposed  to  the  fire  first,  then  the  skin,  and  great  care  taken  the 
skin  does  not  burn.  Have  the  dish  very  hot  to  serve  it  in,  and 
baste  with  a  small  piece  of  butter;  sprinkle  with  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  The  roes  may  be  salted  and  kept  perfectly  well 
in  a  cold  place  for  next  day's  breakfast  if  not  needed  with  the 
fish.  They  are  to  be  fried  in  boiling  lard  a  golden  brown,  after 
being  sprinkled  with  flour  or  cornmeal.  Put  them  in  common 
brown  paper  in  the  oven  for  a  moment  before  placing  on  a  hot 
dish. 

Broiled  Potatoes — Have  potatoes  boiled  and  cold;  cut  into 
slices  one-third  of  an  inch  thick;    dip  them  in  melted  butter  and 


220  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

fine  bread  crumbs  and  broil  over  a  fire  that  is  not  too  hot;    season 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

Wheat  Muffins — Muffins  raised  with  yeast  (made  at  bedtime) 
are  the  nicest,  and  can  be  so  made  until  warm  weather,  when  it 
would  be  safest  to  make  in  the  morning  with  yeast  powder.  One 
pint  of  milk  scalded  and  let  cool,  one-fourth  of  compressed  yeast 
cake  dissolved  in  tepid  water,  one  quart  of  flour  (sifted),  one 
tablespoon  of  butter  or  lard,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  eggspoon 
of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  white  sugar.  Beat  the  sugar  and  salt  into 
the  eggs,  then  add  the  butter  and  a  little  flour;  cream  all  together; 
when  smooth  add  the  yeast,  then  flour  and  milk  alternately,  beat- 
ing constantly  until  you  have  a  perfectly  smooth  batter.  Cover 
with  a  cloth  and  let  rise  in  a  moderately  warm  place.  In  the 
morning  have  muffin-pan  greased,  take  batter  out  lightly  with  a 
large  spoon,  and  half  fill  the  compartments;  let  rise  again  an 
hour  or  little  less  and  bake  in  a  good  oven.  Can  be  also  baked 
on  top  of  stove  in  muffin-rings  placed  on  a  hot  greased  griddle, 
if  preferred. 

Deviled  Clams — Two  dozen  clams;  take  out  the  hearts  or  the 
hard  centers.  Put  in  chopping-bowl  and  chop  very  fine.  Have 
half  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs;  one  teaspoon  of  finely  chopped 
spring  onion,  one  of  parsley,  dash  of  red  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  add  three  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Mix  all  well  together 
with  a  fork.  Have  clam  shells  clean  and  dry.  Grease  lightly,  fill 
with  the  mixture,  place  grated  crumbs  and  a  small  dot  of  butter  on 
top;    put  into  a  pan  and  brown  in  a  good  oven. 

Lettuce  Sandwiches — Cut  the  '  bread  into  thin  slices,  butter 
lightly,  take  off  crust  or  not,  as  you  please;  cut  into  half  slices. 
Have  the  small  leaves  of  lettuce,  which  have  been  nicely  washed 
in  cold  water  and  dried,  on  each  half  slice  of  bread  put  a  lettuce 
leaf;  spread  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  add  the  other  half 
slice  of  bread.  The  yolk  of  one  egg,  either  raw  or  hard  boiled, 
with  the  needed,  oil,  vinegar,  etc.,  will  make  plenty  of  dressing 
needed  for  the  lunch  sandwiches. 

Lemon  Jelly — Half  box  Nelson's  gelatine,  dissolved  for  an 
hour  in  half  pint  cold  water;  then  add  one  pint  water  boiling  hot, 
three-quarters  pound  of  sugar,  half  pint  juice  of  fresh  lemons, 
after  the  sugar  is  entirely  dissolved;  stir  all  together,  strain  and 
put  to  cool,  then  in  the  icebox  to  harden. 

Cream  of  Cheese  Soup — One  pint  of  milk,  one  slice  of  onion, 
one  slice  of  carrot,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one  even  tablespoon 
of  fiour,  two  full  tablespoons  of  Parmesan  cheese,  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil  with  onion  and 
carrot.  •  Rub  the  butter  and  fiour  together  until  smooth.  Remove 
the  vegetables  from  the  milk,  add  butter  and  flour  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens.  Add  the  cheese  and  stir  three  minutes. 
Now  take  it  from  the  fire,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  salt 
and  pepper  and  serve  at  once.  This  soup  can  not  be  heated  over. 
One  blade  of  mace  can  be  used  if  liked.  Buy  the  cheese  solid  and 
grate  it;    this  is  cheaper.     This  is  a  very  delicious  soup. 

Veal  Cutlet  au  Gratin— Have  your  cutlet  cut  from  an  inch 


THE  CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK  BOOK.  221 

and  a  half  to  two  inches  thick.  Make  a  dressing  of  finely  grated 
bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  melted  butter,  chopped  onion,  a  very- 
little  parsley,  salt  and  red  pepper.  Put  it  on  top  of  the  cutlet, 
one-half  of  an  inch  thick.  Place  cutlet  in  a  hot  pan,  cover  with 
another  pan  and  place  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  to  cook  slowly. 
The  crumbs  keep  the  cutlet  juicy,  and  it  should  be  uncovered  and 
let  brown  at  the  last. 

Asparagus  on  Toast — Have  salted  water  boiling  hard;  wash 
the  asparagus  in  cold  water  and  tie  again  in  a  bunch;  put  it  in  the 
boiling  water  and  cover  and  let  cook  until  tender.  Have  several 
slices  of  bread  nicely  toasted;  cut  into  quarters.  When  aspara- 
gus is  tender  dip  each  piece  of  toast  for  a  moment  in  the  boiling 
water  and  place  in  a  hot  dish;  then  add  the  asparagus  and  pour 
over  all  either  melted  butter  or  drawn  butter,  made  thus:  Cream 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  until 
light  and  smooth;  gradually  add  one-half  pint  of  boiling  water  or 
milk;  stir  constantly  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  but  do  not  let  it  boil; 
add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  pepper  if  desired. 

Riced  Potatoes — Have  a  flat  dish  and  the  colander  hot.  With 
a  spoon  rub  seasoned  mashed  potato  through  the  colander  into 
the  hot  dish;  be  careful  the  colander  does  not  touch  the  potato 
in  the  dish;  it  is  best  to  have  only  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  potato 
in  it  at  one  time.  When  all  has  been  pressed  through  place  the 
dish  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes  to  insure  its  being  hot. 

Dandy  Pudding — One  quart  of  milk;  let  it  come  to  a  boil; 
then  stir  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  which  have  been 
dissolved  perfectly  in  cold  milk;  have  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
well  beaten,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  tablespoonful 
of  butter;  stir  all  these  into  the  boiling  milk  slowly  until  smooth; 
then  pour  into  a  greased  baking-dish  and  put  in  oven.  When 
baked  and  cold  have  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth, 
sweetened  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  fiavored  with  a 
few  drops  of  vanilla,  rose  or  almond;  place  on  top  of  pudding 
and  set  in  the  oven  for  a  moment  to  harden.    To  be  eaten  cold. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Turtle. 

No.   2815    Q   Street,   Washington,   D.    C. 


MONDAY,  MAY  THE  SEVENTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Lake  trout  fried.  Bread  and  butter. 

Potatoes — maitr^  d'hotel. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Deviled  ham  loaf.        Egg  bannock.        Radishes; 

Bananas. 

Tea, 


222  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

*       DINNER. 

French  stew  of  hearts. 

Potato   ribbon.  Spinach   souffle. 

Lettuce  salad. 

Little  strawberry  puddings. 

Coffee. 


Deviled  Ham  Loaf — Take  tv/o  cupfuls  of  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs,  one-quarter  pound  of  deviled  ham,  two  cups  of  milk, 
using  a  portion  of  it  to  moisten  the  ham.  Stir  in  two  well- 
beaten  eggs,  add  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  pour  into  buttered  bread- 
pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  one  hour.  Serve  cold,  cut  in 
thin  slices.     Enough  for  tv/o  meals. 

Egg  Bannock — Sift  together  one  cupful  flour,  a  saltspoonful 
salt,  a  pinch  of  white  pepper,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  baking 
powder;  beat  to  a  froth  three  eggs,  add  one  cup  milk  and  stir 
in  the  flour.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  buttered  griddle,  cover  it  with 
a  piepan  or  tin  cover  and  bake  over  a  gentle  fire,  shaking  the  pan 
often  and  adding  a  little  butter  if  the  bannock  sticks;  when  it  is 
a  light  brown  on  the  bottom  turn  and  let  it  cook  until  both  sides 
are  brown,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 

French  Stew  of  Hearts — Take  three  lambs'  hearts,  wash  and 
cut  into  slices,  cutting  across  the  grain  of  the  heart;  put  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  small  stewing  kettle  and  when  hot 
add  the  meat;  stir  constantly  until  the  meat  is  well  browned; 
then  add  enough  hot  v/ater  to  nearly  cover  the  meat,  two  slices 
of  lemon,  two  bay  leaves,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt  and  one-half 
saltspoonful  pepper;  cover  the  kettle  and  cook  gently  for  one 
hour,  stirring  often  and  adding  a  little  more  water  if  needed; 
when  the  meat  is  cooked  remove  from  the  gravy  to  a  hot  platter 
and  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  pour  over  the 
meat  and  serve. 

Potato  Ribbon — Pare  six  large  potatoes  and  lay  in  cold  water 
for  an  hour;  at  the  end  of  this  time  remove  from  the  water  and 
wipe  dry;  then  with  a  small  knife  pare  round  and  round  in  one 
continuous  strip;  handle  with  care  and  fry  a  few  at  a  time  in 
smoking  hot  lard;  arrange  neatly  upon  a  flat,  hot  dish  and  serve; 
but  first  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them.  0 

Spinach  Souffle — This  is  a  good  way  to  prepare  spinach  that 
has  been  left  over  from  a  previous  meal.  To  every  cupful  of  cooked 
spinach  add  one  beaten  egg;  stir  well  and  pour  into  a  well-but- 
tered baking-dish  and  cook  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Little  Strawberry  Puddings — To  one  quart  of  berries  add  two 
cupfuls  of  sugar.  Stir  them  together  so  that  the  berries  will  be 
slightly  mashed.  Prepare  for  the  batter  two  eggs,  one  table- 
spoonful  butter,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder  or  pinch  of  salt, 
one  cup  of  milk  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour.  Butter  some 
cups  and  put  in  a  layer  of  batter,  then  a  layer  of  berries,  until 


THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  223 

two-thirds  full;  steam  for  thirty  minutes.  Any  kind  of  plain 
sweet  sauce  may  be  eaten  on  this  pudding,  but  the  juice  from  the 
berries  is  all  that  is  necessary,  Mrs.  March  Greene. 

Grinnell,  Iowa. 


TUESDAY,  MAY  THE  EIGHTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  pineapple. 

Wheat  flakes.  Sugar  and  cream. 

Liver  a  la  Bordelaise.  Potato  souffle. 

Raised  corn-bread.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Croquettes  of  macaroni. 

Bread  and  butter,  sandwiches.      Sliced  tomatoes. 

Chocolate  wafers.  Almond  cream. 

Iced  milk. 


DINNER. 

Velvet  soup. 
Egyptian  chicken.  Steamed  potatoes. 

Cauliflower. 

Bread  and  butter.  Pickled  onions. 

Lemon  cream  pie.  Tea. 


Liver  a  la  Bordelaise — Cut  six  medium-sized  slices  of  liver, 
parboil,  trim  and  pare  nicely;  season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt 
and  one-quarter  teaspoon  pepper;  baste  with  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  and  roil  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Broil  over  a  mod- 
erate fire  till  thoroughly  well  done;  dish  in  a  circle,  alternating 
with  fillet-shaped  slices  of  brown  bread  fried  in  butter;  pour  a 
Bordelaise  sauce  in  the  center. 

Raised  Corn-Bread — One  quart  of  meal,  one  pint  of  flour,  one 
tablespoon  sugar,  and  two  ounces  of  butter  and  one  heaping  tea- 
spoon salt.  Dissolve  one-half  cake  compressed  yeast  in  one  and 
one-half  pints  of  warm  milk;  melt  the  butter,  add  it  with  sugar 
and  salt,  then  make  a  hole  in  the  flour  and  meal  mixed  together 
and  pour  in  the  liquid;  make  it  into  a  very  stiff  batter  and  set  to 
rise  in  buttered  tins;    when  light,  bake  slowly. 

Croquettes  of  Macaroni — Boil  one-quarter  pound  of  macaroni 
in  salted  water  till  very  tender.  Drain  and  toss  in  a  sauce-pan  with 
one  tablespoon  butter,  one-half  ounce  Parmesan  cheese,  one-quar- 
ter ounce  cooked  tongue  cut  in  fine  dice.  Spread  on  a  well-but- 
tered platter,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  press  it  well  down,  and 
set  away  to  cool.  Divide  with  a  knife  into  five  parts,  roll  each 
one  in  grated  cheese,  then  in  beaten  egg  and  In  cracker  crumbs. 


224  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

Fry  in  smoking  hot  fat  till  well  browned.    Drain,  and  serve  on  a 
folded  napkin. 

Chocolate  Wafers— One-half  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup 
granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  egg,  one-half  cup 
grated  chocolate,  one  teaspoon  of  extract  of  vanilla.  Mix  all  to- 
gether; add  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  roll  very  thin,  cut  with 
little  square  cutter.  Bake  about  five  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Suffi- 
cient for  several  meals,  but  are  excellent  to  keep. 

Almond  Cream — One  pint  new  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one-quar- 
ter pound  of  blanched  almonds,  chopped;  stir  over  the  fire,  add 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Flavor  with  one-half  tea- 
spoon extract  of  rose.  Pour  into  cup  and  pile  on  a  meringue 
made  of  the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  one-half  cup  sugar. 

Velvet  Soup — ^One  quart  of  any  kind  of  good  stock,  one  cup 
cream,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  saltspoon  pepper;  pour  it  boil- 
ing hot  on  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  diluted  with  one-half 
cup  creani.    Reheat  and  serve  at  once  in  bouillon  cups. 

Egyptian  Chicken — Select  a  well-fattened  hen  a  year  old,  or 
even  more.  Clean  and  truss  as  usual,  tying  the  legs  and  wings 
very  close  to  the  body.  Rub  inside  and  out  with  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper.  Pick 
over  and  wash  one  and  one-quarter  cups  rice,  season  it  with  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  pepper,  one  teaspoon  curry  pow- 
der. Put  three  tablespoons  rice  inside  the  fowl  and  the  remain- 
der around  it  in  a  dish  just  large  enough  to  hold  it  nicely.  Set 
in  a  steamer  and  cook  four  hours.  The  giblets  may  be  scalded 
and  cooked  separately  for  one  hour,  and  then  laid  inside  the  fowl 
with  the  rice.  If  the  broth  in  which  they  are  cooked  is  not  too 
strong  pour  it  over  the  rice  in  the  dish. 

Cauliflower — Trim  off  outsjde  leaves  and  lay  blossoms  down 
in  cold  salted  water  one  hour.  Tie  in  a  piece  of  mosquito  netting 
and  cook  in  boiling  water  till  very  tender.  Drain  and  pour  over 
it  a  cream  sauce. 

Cream  Sauce — Rub  to  a  cream  one  tablespoon  butter  and  two 
of  flour,  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  pepper. 
Pour  over  it  one  pint  hot  cream.    Beat  till  smooth. 

Miss  Birdie  Stenson. 

No.  6  Liberty  Street,  Janesville,  Wis. 


WEDNESDAY,   MAY   THE   NINETEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Apples  and  cream. 
Hominy,  with  butter  and  maple  sirup. 
Grilled  beef.  Breakfast  gems. 

Coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  225 

LUNCHEON. 

Ham  toast.  Lettuce,  with  Mayonnaise  sauce. 

Stewed  Lima  beans. 

Orange  marmalade.  Angel  food. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Sago  soup. 

Broiled  shad.  Cowslip  greens. 

Potatoes  a  I'ltalienne.  Little  onion  pickles. 

Fruit  pudding.  Coffee. 


Grilled  Beef — Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  roast  beef  about  three 
inches  long  and  one  and  one-half  inches  wide,  and  then  dip  them 
in  a  dressing  made  as  follows:  Beat  an  egg  until  light,  then  beat 
in,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  one  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil  (or  melted 
butter)  and  the  same  quantity  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  al- 
ternating the  oil  and  vinegar,  and  beating  all  until  the  dressing 
Is  thick  like  cold  cream;  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  white 
pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  a  dash  of  cayenne. 
Dip  the  meat  in  the  dressing  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  until  it 
browns  a  little  and  is  well  heated  through,  remove  to  a  hot  plat- 
ter, put  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  piece,  set  in  the  oven  a  moment 
and  serve. 

Ham  Toast — Remove  the  fat  from  some  slices  of  cold  boiled 
ham;  chop  fine;  should  be  a  large  cupful.  Put  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter  into  a  sauce-pan  on  the  stove;  add  the  chopped  ham 
and  half  a  teacupful  of  sweet  cream  or  milk.  Season  with  one- 
fourth  saltspoon  pepper,  and  when  hot  remove  from  the  stove  and 
stir  in  quickly  three  well-beaten  eggs.  Pour  the  mixture  over  thin 
slices  of  toast  and  serve  at  once. 

Mayonnaise  Sauce — Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  thoroughly;  add 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard  powder  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  stir  all  well  together;  now  beat  in  slowly,  a  few  drops  at  a 
time,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil;  when  the  sauce  begins  to 
be  quite  stiff  alternate  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  (or  vinegar) 
with  the  oil  and  continue  beating.  When  the  oil  and  egg  have 
been  well  beaten  together  add  a  very  little  cayenne,  and  a  few 
drops  at  a  time,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

Sago  Soup — Wash  three  ounces  of  sago  in  boiling  water  and 
add  it  gradually  to  two  quarts  of  nearly  boiling  stock,  with  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper.  Simmer  for  half 
an  hour,  when  it  should  be  well  dissolved.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  add  them  to  half  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  stir  quickly 
into  the  soup  and  serve  immediately.  Don't  let  the  soup  boil  after 
the  eggs  are  put  in  or  it  will  curdle. 

Broiled  Shad — Do  not  remove  the  skin,  but  scale,  draw,  cut 
down  the  back  on  the  inside  on  both  sides  of  the  bone.  Remove 
the  bone,  then  wash,  wipe  dry  and  rub  with  a  little  salt  on  the 

15 


226  THE  CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

inside.  Place  on  a  hot,  well-buttered  broiler,  with  the  inside 
down,  turning  over  the  broiler  to  cook  the  other  side.  Attend 
closely  to  it.  The  time  required  for  broiling  will,  of  course,  de- 
pend upon  the  size  of  fish.  •  When  through  broiling  place  the  fish 
in  a  buttered  roasting-pan  in  the  oven  and  cover  closely  to  pre- 
vent drying.  This  will  allow  every  portion  to  become  cooked 
through  while  preparing  the  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Pish — Two  small  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt  and 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Mix  well  together  and  pour  over  the  shad, 
after  removing  it  to  a  hot  platter. 

Before  broiling  the  shad  place  the  roes  in  a  spider  of  hot  fat. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  cook  well  through.  They  should 
be  crisp  and  brown  on  the  outside.  Serve  on  the  platter  with  the 
fish. 

Cowslip  Greens — About  a  peck  of  cowslip  leaves  will  be  re- 
quired for  a  little  over  a  pint  when  cooked.  Look  over  carefully 
and  wash  well.  Lay  them  in  cold  water  for  tv/enty  minutes.  Put 
over  to  cook  in  abundance  of  boiling  water;  boil  ten  minutes. 
Drain  off  the  water  and  cover  again  with  boiling  water.  Put  in 
a  half-tablespoonful  of  salt  and  cook  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes. 
When  done  put  into  a  colander,  drain  and  press  out  all  of  the 
water.  Return  to  the  stove  in  a  sauce-pan  and  season  with  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cut 
through  with  a  sharp  knife  and  mix  thoroughly.  Put  in  a  hot 
dish  and  garnish,  if  liked,  with  cold  boiled  eggs.  Serve  with 
vinegar. 

Potatoes  a  I'ltalienne — This  way  of  cooking  potatoes  requires 
fully  ripe,  dry  and  mealy  potatoes.  Pare  and  boil  them.  When 
done,  instead  of  mashing,  beat  as  light  as  possible  with  a  large 
vegetable  fork.  For  a  quart  of  potatoes  beat  in  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teacupful  of  cream 
or  milk  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten;  when  these  in- 
gredients are  thoroughly  mixed  with  the  potato,  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Pile  in  a  warm  dish  as  lightly  as  pos- 
sible and  serve.  The  yolks  may  be  omitted  and  the  potatoes  may 
be  lightly  browned  in  the  oven. 

Fruit  Pudding — Cut  four  seedless  oranges  into  a  fineware 
crock  (such  as  can  be  put  in  the  oven  with  safety)  and  spread 
half  a  teacupful  of  sugar  over  fhem.  In  a  sauce-pan  on  the  stove 
put  a  pint  of  water,  two  teacupfuls  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  three 
lemons.  When  this  boils  add  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  milk,  and  when  it  thickens  remove  from  stove.  Now 
add  three  well-beaten  eggs,  after  reserving  the  whites  of  two. 
Pour  the  contents  of  the  sauce-pan  over  the  oranges  and  cover 
the  whole  with  the  thoroughly  beaten  whites  of  the  two  eggs,  to 
which  a  little  sugar  has  been  added.  Put  in  the  oven  until  slight- 
ly browned.  Allow  to  cool  in  the  refrigerator  and  pour  as  deftly 
as  possible  into  a  large  dessert  dish.  Spread  strawberries  over 
the  top,  plentifully  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar. 

Tully,  N.  Y.  Mrs.  R.  W.  Lowe. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  227 

THURSDAY,  MAY  THE  TWENTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries  on  their  stems. 

Graham  jelly.  Sugar  and  cream. 

Spring  onion  on  toast.  Honeycomb  eggs. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Clam  chowder. 

Bread  and  butter.  Baked  pieplant. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Asparagus  puree. 

Smothered  steak  with  plaintains  or  red  bananas. 

Golden  potatoes. 

Sliced  lemon  pie.  Coffee. 


Graham  Jelly — To  be  made  the  day  before.  Mix  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  graham  flour  to  a  thin  paste  with  cold  water. 
Pour  into  a  quart  of  boiling  salted  water,  stirring  quickly.  Stir 
while  it  boils  four  minutes.  Pour  into  wet  teacups  and  set  in  re- 
frigerator till  morning,  when  turn  out  on  saucers  and  serve. 

Spring  Onion  on  Toast — Mince  a  bunch  of  onions  rather  fine, 
cover  with  cold  water  and  set  over  fire.  When  at  the  boiling 
point  drain  and  cover  again  with  cold  water.  Boil  ten  minutes, 
drain,  season  with  one-half  saltspoon  salt,  one-fourth  saltspoon 
pepper,  a  small  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  fiour  and  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  milk.  Have  rounds  of  buttered  toast  ready  and  place  a  large 
spoonful  of  onion  in  center  of  each.    Odorless  and  delicious. 

Honeycomb  Eggs — Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  granite 
or  agate  pudding-pan  and  set  in  the  oven  to  heat.  Break  five 
eggs  into  dish  containing  one-third  cup  of  milk,  one-half  tea- 
spooonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Beat  one  minute,  pour 
into  the  hot  pan,  bake  in  quick  oven  ten  minutes  or  till  eggs  have 
risen  to  the  top.     Pin  folded  napkin  around  and  serve  quickly. 

Clam  Chowder — Fifteen  (twenty,  if  small)  clams.  Scrub  shells 
and  place  them  in  a  kettle  over  fire.  Cover  with  one  quart  of  boil- 
ing water.  As  soon  as  shells  open  remove  from  fire.  Save  i:he 
v/ater.  One-third  pound  salt  pork,  chopped  fine;  four  large  po- 
tatoes sliced  thin.  Put  pork  in  kettle.  After  cooking  a  short  time 
add  strained  water  and  juice  of  clams,  potatoes  and  three  onions 
sliced  thin.  Simmer  one  and  one-quarter  hours;  add  a  quart  of 
milk,  cook  fifteen  minutes  longer,  add  clams  and  serve. 

Baked  Pieplant — Wash  and  wipe  dry  one  bunch  of  pieplant. 
Cut  in  inch  bits  without  peeling.  Put  layer  in  bottom  of  earthen 
jar,  cover  with  sugar;    repeat  this  until  all  is  used.    Cover  tightly; 


228  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

bake  an  hour.  Serve  cold.  Be  sure  to  add  no  water.  This  is 
enough  for  two  meals. 

Asparagus  Puree — Cut  one  bunch  of  asparagus  into  small 
bits,  cover  with  a  generous  quart  of  cold  water,  boil  an  hour.  Re- 
move asparagus,  press  through  a  coarse  sieve  and  return  to  the 
water.  Add  a  teacupful  of  milk,  two  large  spoonfuls  of  butter 
rubbed  to  a  paste  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour;  salt  and  pep- 
per to  suit  taste.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  pour  into  a  tureen 
in  which  you  have  placed  a  few  large  round  crackers. 

Smothered  Steak  with  Plantains — Broil  quickly  over  a  hot 
fire  two  pounds  of  steak  which  has  been  cut  two  inches  thick  and 
well  trimmed  of  bone  and  fat.  Place  on  a  hot  platter  and  spread 
both  sides  with  this  mixtui^e:  A  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  white 
pepper.  On  top  of  the  steak  lay  three  plantains  or  red  bananas, 
cut  in  two  lengthwise  and  just  fried  in  butter.  Sprinkle  over  all 
a  tablespoonful  of  grated  horseradish. 

Golden  Potatoes  (specially  suited  to  old  potatoes) — Pare  and 
soak  in  cold  water  two  hours.  Put  over  the  fire  in  cold  water 
with  a  little  salt.  Boil  till  very  near  done,  drain,  place  in  a  drip- 
ping-pan, rub  each  potato  over  with  fat  and  sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  salt.    Place  in  upper  oven  until  all  are  of  a  golden  color. 

Sliced  Lemon  Pie — Line  a  pie  plate  with  nice  pie-crust,  then 
put  in  a  cup  of  sugar.  Pare  one  large  lemon  or  two  small  ones, 
taking  care  to  leave  none  of  the  white  rind.  Slice  very  thin,  re- 
moving all  seeds.  Arrange  slices  evenly  in  pie.  Put  on  a  top 
crust,  pinching  down  well,  so  that  juice  does  not  escape.  Bake 
fifteen  minutes.  Serve  cold.  This  is  cheap,  quickly  made  and 
very  appetizing.  Mrs.  George  H.  Barber. 

Huntley,  Minn. 


FRIDAY,  MAY  THE  TWENTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  rhubarb. 

Par  excellence  rice.  Marrow  toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Swiss  eggs.  Crackers. 

Peach  foam.  Date  biscuits. 

Oatmeal  nectar. 


DINNER. 

Asparagus  soup. 

Baked  shad  or  whitefish. 

Asparagus.  Radishes. 

Mixed  fruit.  Sponge  drops. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  229 

Baked  Rhubarb— Cut  strawberry  rhubarb  into  inch  pieces 
without  removing  the  skin,  sprinkle  one-half  teacup  of  sugar 
over  each  pint  of  the  well-washed  fruit  and  place  in  a  pudding- 
dish  without  any  water;  cover  closely  and  bake  just  long  enough 
to  make  tender.  Each  piece  will  retain  its  shape  and  the  juice 
have  the  color  and  flavor  of  strawberry. 

Par  Excellence  Rice — Cook  one  teacup  of  well-washed  rice  in 
three  pints  of  boiling  salted  water  twenty  minutes.  Pour  in  col- 
ander; return  the  drained  rice  to  the  hot  kettle,  which  must  be 
well  greased  with  butter.  Add  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  the  top, 
cover  with  hot  lid,  and,  when  well  dried,  dish  and  serve  either 
with  sirup  or  cream. 

Marrow  Toast — Have  the  butcher  split  a  shin  bone;  remove 
the  marrow  and  cut  it  into  inch-thick  slices.  Boil  ninety  seconds 
in  a  quart  of  salted  water.  Have  ready  in  a  hot  dish  one  tea- 
spoon of  chopped  parsley,  one  of  lemon  juice,  half  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  a  grain  of  cayenne  and  six  drops  of  onion  juice.  Drain  the 
marrow  and  mix  with  the  seasoning  in  the  hot  dish;  spread  on 
squares  of  crisp,  hot  toast  and  serve  very  hot. 

Swiss  Eggs — Line  a  pie  plate  with  thin  slices  of  cheese.  In 
one  cup  of  milk  mix  one  teaspoon  of  mustard  and  one-tenth  of 
teaspoon  of  red  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Pour  half  of 
this  mixture  over  the  cheese,  then  carefully  break  in  five  eggs  so 
as  not  to  disturb  the  yolks,  then  pour  the  rest  of  the  milk  over 
them.  Bake  ten  minutes,  or  until  the  eggs  are  set.  The  cheese  on 
melting  thickens  the  milk  and  makes  a  nourishing  dish. 

Peach  Foam — Chop  a  can  of  peaches,  heat,  and  thicken  with- 
three  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Add 
the  juice  of  half  a  large  lemon.  Remove  from  fire,  and  when 
nearly  cold  whip  in  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Serve  quite 
cold. 

Date  Biscuit — To  one  pint  of  bread  sponge  add  two  table- 
spoons of  sugar  and  enough  graham  flour  to  make  stiff;  add  one 
cup  of  washed  chopped  dates,  mold  into  small  cakes,  dip  in  melt- 
ed butter  or  lard;    let  rise,  and  bake. 

Oatmeal  Nectar — Put  four  ounces  of  oatmeal  into  a  porcelain 
kettle,  add  six  ounces  of  white  sugar  and  a  lemon  sliced  thin; 
mix  with  a  little  cold  water,  then  pour  on  one  gallon  of  boiling 
water.  When  cold  drain  off,  and  it  will  be  a  nourishing  and  re- 
freshing drink. 

Baked  Shad  or  Whitefish — Make  a  dressing  of  one  pint  of 
bread  crumbs  seasoned  with  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  of  pepper  and  moistened  with 
stock  if  convenient.  Place  in  fish,  tie  up,  rub  over  fish  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper  and  place  over  the  fish 
a  few  slices  of  thin  breakfast  bacon.  Bake  until  well  done,  basting 
with  water  and  butter.  Transfer  fish  to  hot  dish,  garnish  with 
the  strips  of  bacon.  Add  a  teaspoon  each  of  lemon  juice  and 
anchovy  sauce  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan,  thicken  with  browned 
flour  and  send  to  table  in  a  boat.  A  salad  of  watercress  is  a  nice 
accompaniment. 


230  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Asparagus — As  part  of  the  strength  of  the  asparagus  was  used 
in  the  soup  it  is  well  to  serve  it  in  a  rich  milk  gravy. 

Serve  the  radishes  with  the  heart  of  the  green  leaves  left  on 
and  in  a  glass  dish  with  bits  of  ice. 

Oranges  and  Strawberries  Mixed — To  one  quart  of  strawber- 
ries add  two  oranges  cut  up  in  bits.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
serve  in  a  half  hour  or  so  very  cold  with  sweet  graham  crackers 
or  sponge  drop  cake. 

Jacksonville,  111.  Mrs.  Charles  J.  Drury. 


SATURDAY,  MAY  THE  TWENTY-SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries  and  cream. 

Hamburg  steak.  Asparagus  omelet. 

Oatmeal  gems.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Sweetbread  and  cucumber  salad. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Stewed  rhubarb.  Lady  fingers. 

Russian  tea. 


DINNER. 

Pried  veal  cutlets,  tomato  sauce. 

Spinach  with  eggs.  Potato  snow. 

Delmonico  pudding.  Coffee. 


Asparagus  Omelet — Boil  ten  stalks  of  asparagus  in  slightly 
salted  water  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  and  cut  the  eatable  part 
into  small  pieces.  Beat  five  eggs  until  very  light,  add  a  small 
half-teaspoonful  of  salt;  pour  them  into  a  hot  frying-pan  con- 
taining a  teaspoonful  of  butter;  spread  the  prepared  asparagus 
upon  the  upper  side,  and  when  perfectly  hot  fold  the  omelet  to- 
gether and  serve. 

Oatmeal  Gems — Soak  over  night  a  cupful  of  oatmeal  in  a 
cupful  of  cold  water.  In  the  morning  sift  together  one  cupful 
of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  a  very  scant 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Add  this  to  the  soaked  oatmeal  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Wet  the  mixture  with  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
thus  making  a  stiff  batter;  drop  into  the  buttered  gem-pans  and 
bake  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sweetbread  and  Cucumber  Salad — Soak  a  small  pair  of  sweet- 
breads for  an  hour  in  cold  salted  water.  Then  drop  them  into 
boiling  salted  water,  to  which  you  have  added  a  teaspoonful  of 
vinegar,  and  cook  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and 
drop  again  into  cold  water  to  harden.    When  perfectly  cold  re- 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  231 

move  the  pipes  and  membranes  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Peel 
and  slice  two  cucumbers  into  very  thin  slices  and  mix  with  the 
sweetbreads.  Just  before  serving  pour  over  the  mixture  a  cup- 
ful of  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Fried  Veal  Cutlets — Put  into  a  frying-pan  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  lard  or  beef  drippings.  When  boiling  hot  lay  in  the  cutlets 
(two  pounds  for  five  people)  well  seasoned  with  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper  and  dredged  with 
flour.  Brown  nicely  on  both  sides,  then  remove  the  meat  and  set 
aside  the  grease  for  further  use.  Serve  cutlets  with  following 
sauce: 

Tomato  Sauce — Take  a  quart  can  of  tomatoes;  place  over  the 
fire  in  a  stewpan;  put  in  one  slice  of  onion,  two  cloves,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Boil  twenty  min- 
utes, then  remove  from  the  fire  and  strain  through  a  sieve.  Melt 
in  a  clean  saucepan  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  as  it  melts 
sprinkle  in  a  tablespoonful  of  fiour.  Stir  until  it  browns  and 
froths  a  little.  Mix  the  tomato  pulp  with  it  and  it  is  ready  for  the 
table.  Half  of  this  quantity  will  be  sufiicient  to  serve  with  the 
cutlets.  Set  the  remainder  aside  to  be  reheated  and  served  with 
macaroni,  which  has  been  boiled  until  tender,  for  luncheon  on 
the  following  day. 

Spinach  with  Eggs — Take  half  a  peck  of  spinach  and  wash 
it  three  or  four  times.  Drain  it  and  put  it  in  boiling  water. 
Cook  twenty  minutes,  being  careful  to  remove  the  scum.  When 
it  is  quite  tender  take  it  up  and  drain  it  well.  Chop  it  fine  and 
put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 
and  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  not  more  than  a  saltspoonful  of 
each.  Set  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it  stew  five  minutes,  stirring  it 
all  the  time.  Turn  into  a  vegetable  dish,  shape  it  into  a  mound 
and  slice  two  or  three  hard-boiled  eggs  over  the  top. 

Potato  Snow — Choose  seven  mealy  potatoes;  pare  them  and 
cook  them  well;  drain  them  and  mash  thoroughly.  Press  them 
through  a  fine  wire  sieve  into  the  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be 
served.  Strew  a  little  fine  salt  upon  them  previous  to  sending 
them  to  the  table. 

Delmonico  Pudding — Boil  together  one  quart  of  milk,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
two  well-beaten  eggs.  Two  minutes  of  actual  boiling  is  suflacient 
time  to  cook  it.  When  cool  add  one-half  saltspoonful  of  salt  and 
one  cupful  of  shredded  cocoanut.  Pour  into  a  pudding  dish  and 
bake  until  set  and  of  a  delicate  brown  color.  Eat  cold  with 
cream.  Miss  Ermine  Owen. 

Kirksville,  Mo. 


232  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

SUNDAY,  MAY  THE  TWENTY-THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Pettijohn,  sugar  and  cream. 

Toast. 

Bread  griddle  cakes.  Maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Potato  croquettes.  Lettuce  sandwiches. 

Tapioca   cream.  Cocoa. 


DINNER.       ' 

Fish  Chowder. 

Roast  sirloin  of  beef.  Yorkshire  pudding. 

Macaroni   with   tomato   sauce. 

Pineapple,  Bavarian  cream. 

Cocoanut  and  raisin  cream  cake. 

Coffee. 


Tapioca  Cream — Wash  four  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  tapioca, 
put  it  into  a  dish  containing  one  quart  of  cold  milk,  set  this 
dish  into  another  containing  hot  .water  and  let  stand  on  the 
back  of  the  stove  for  three  hours;  stir  every  fifteen  minutes. 
At  the  end  of  the  three  hours  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  one  saltspoonful  of  salt;  cook  ten 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Have  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs 
beaten  so  stiff  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  that 
they  stay  in  the  dish  when  inverted.  Take  the  tapioca  from  the 
fire  and  when  it  has  stopped  boiling  beat  the  whites  lightly 
through  it;  when  cool  flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  This 
is  dainty  and  delicious  and  is  better  made  the  day  before  using. 

Fish  Chowder — Take  four  pounds  of  fresh  haddock  or  cod; 
when  buying  a  fish  for  chowder  have  the  head  left  on  but  the 
skin  removed.  Begin  at  the  tail  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  the 
fish  from  the  bone  on  one  side,  keeping  the  knife  as  close  as 
possible  to  the  bone;  remove  bone  from  other  side,  then  take 
out  the  small  bones  near  the  head.  Wipe  the  fish  carefully  with 
a  damp  cloth,  cut  it  into  pieces  about  two  inches  square  and  put 
it  away  in  a  cool  place.  Break  the  bones  and  head,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  put  them  on  to  boii.  Pare  six  good-sized  raw 
potatoes  and  cut  them  into  slices  one-eighth  of  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness, soak  them  in  cold  water  one-half  hour,  put  into  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water  and  boil  five  minutes;  then  pour  off  the  water. 
Cut  a  two-inch  cube  of  fat  salt  pork  into  quarter-inch  dice,  and 
fry  it  in  an  omelet  pan;  cut  two  small  onions  into  thin  slices' 
and  fry  them  brown  in  the  pork  fat,  being  very  careful  that  it 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  233 

does  not  burn.  Pour  the  fat  through  a  strainer  into  a  clean 
kettle,  leaving  pork  scraps  and  onions  in  the  strainer.  Put  the 
sliced  potatoes  into  this  kettle;  hold  the  strainer  over  the  kettle 
and  pour  through  it  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  the  potatoes. 
When  the  potatoes  have  boiled  ten  minutes  strain  the  water  in 
which  the  bones  have  been  boiling  into  the  kettle  containing  the 
potatoes;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
white  pepper,  and  when  the  chowder  is  boiling  briskly  put  in 
the  fish  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  where  it  can  simmer 
for  ten  minutes.  Be  careful  not  to  break  the  fish  in  stirring. 
Then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  quart  of  hot  milk, 
split  six  butter  crackers  and  place  them  in  the  bottom  of  a 
warm  tureen,  pour  the  chowder  over  them  and  serve. 

Pineapple  Bavarian  Cream — Stew  one  pint  can  of  grated  pine- 
apple with  one  cup  of  sugar  ten  minutes.  Soak  one-half  box 
of  Cox's  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  of  cold  water  for  half  an  hour, 
then  add  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water  to  thoroughly  dissolve  the 
gelatine.  Strain  this  through  an  old  napkin  onto  the  pine- 
apple, add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  the 
mixture  is  thoroughly  cold  and  is  beginning  to  thicken,  add  one 
pint  of  cream  whipped  so  stiff  it  will  stand  alone.  Stir  the  whole 
mixture  quickly  and  lightly  until  nearly  stiff  enough  to  drop; 
then  pour  into  molds  and  set  on  ice  for  half  a  day. 

Cocoanut  and  Raisin  Cream  Cake — One  scant  cup  of  butter, 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  one  saltspoonful  of  mace,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  three 
cups  of  pastry  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Cream  the  butter  and  add  the  sugar 
gradually,  the  yolks  of  the  three  eggs  beaten  separately,  then 
the  vanilla  and  mace.  Sift  the  flour  and  mix  the  soda  and  cream 
of  tartar  with  it.  Add  the  milk  and  flour  alternately,  a  little  at 
a  time,  and  lastly  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs  which  have  been 
beaten  stiff  and  dry.  Bake  in  shallow  round  pans.  As  soon 
as  baked  split  and  spread  with  a  thin  layer  of  currant  jelly,  and 
then  with  a  filling  made  as  follows: 

Cocoanut  and  Raisin  Cream  Pilling — One  cup  of  raisins  stoned 
and  chopped  fine,  one-half  cup  of  chopped  almonds,  one-half  cup 
of  dessicated  cocoanut  and  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  stiff. 
Beat  all  together  thoroughly.  Marion  W.  Moseley. 

Highland  Park,  111. 


MONDAY,  MAY  THE  TWENTY-FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Half-oranges  cut  in  bits. 
Mock  cream  potatoes. 
Graham  gems.  Scrambled  eggs. 

Coffee. 


234  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Dormers. 

Lettuce  sandwiches.  Sour  cream  cakes. 

Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Peanut  soup. 

Chopped   beef.  Potato  puffs. 

Spinach  and  radishes. 

Prune  pudding. 

Cheese.  Crackers.  Coffee. 


Dormers — One  pound  of  cold  boiled  mutton  (baked  may  be 
used  if  preferred),  one  cup  of  boiled  rice,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  a  half  saltspoon  of  pepper,  one  egg  and  a  little  water 
from  the  gravy  to  moisten,  chip  the  meat  fine,  add  the  rice 
and  seasoning,  roll  into  sausages,  cover  with  egg  and  bread 
crumbs,  fry  in  hot  lard  a  nice  brown. 

Mrs.  Cora  K.  Wheeler. 

Marshfield,  ^ood  Co.,  Wis. 


TUESDAY,    MAY   THE   TWENTY-FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 

Soft  boiled  eggs.  French  toast. 

Green  pea  cakes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Miroton  of  beef. 

Spinach, 

Folly.  Kindergarten  cookies. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Beef  bouillon. 

Pate  de  foie  de  veau. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Stewed  young  onions. 

Strawberry  meringue. 

Coffee, 


Soft  Boiled  Eggs— Place  fresh  eggs  in  a  warm  saucepan. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  them,  then  cover  lightly  and  let  stand 
on  the  farther  side  of  the  stove  for  five  minutes. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  235 

French  Toast — Slice  and  trim  the  crust  from  some  baker's 
bread.  Beat  one  egg  into  one  cup  sweet  milk.  Dip  slices  into 
the  mixture,  which  should  be  seasoned  with  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt  and  one-fourth  saltspoon  pepper.  Fry,  in  hot  dripping  or 
lard,  a  delicate  brown. 

Green  Pea  Cakes — Heat  and  mash  two  cups  of  peas  left  from 
yesterday's  dinner  and  season  with  butter,  one-fourth  saltspoon 
pepper  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Let  it  cool,  then  add  two 
eggs,  well-beaten,  a  small  cup  sweet  milk  and  last  one-half  cup 
sifted  flour,  well  mixed  with  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Fry 
on  a  hot  griddle,  well  greased. 

Miroton  of  Beef — Mince  some  cold  beef — about  one  pound. 
Season  with  one-half  teaspoonful  salt  and  one-half  saltspoonful  of 
pepper  and  mix  with  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine.  Wet 
it  with  gravy  or  broth  and  cover  with  cold  seasoned  mashed  po- 
tatoes, which  have  been  mixed  to  a  soft  paste  with  milk  and 
butter.  Place  in  greased  baking  dish,  cover  with  bread  crumbs. 
Bake,  covered,  one-half  hour.  Then  brown  after  removing  the 
cover. 

Folly — Take  a  cup  of  strawberries,  crush  them  and  sprinkle 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  over  them.  Beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  stiff.  Gradually  beat  in  the  crushed  fruit. 
Heap  on  glass  dish. 

Kindergarten  Cookies — Beat  one  egg  well.  Mix  in  one  and 
one-half  cups  sugar.  Add  one  cup  sour  cream,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful soda  and  one-eighth  of  a  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  in  enough 
sifted  flour  to  make  the  batter  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.  Cut  out, 
sprinkle  sugar  over  them  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Pate  de  Foie  de  Veau — Parboil  three  pounds  fresh  calves' 
liver  and  cool.  Mince  with  one-half  pound  of  cold  boiled  ham. 
Beat  the  two  yolks  of  the  eggs  used  to  make  the  "folly"  for 
luncheon.  Season  with  a  coffeespoonful  salt  and  a  little  pepper. 
Mix  the  minced  meat  with  eggs,  milk,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 
and  bread  crumbs  enough  to  form  a  paste  soft  enough  to  pour. 
Grease  or  butter  a  baking  dish  and  line  with  puff  paste.  Pour 
in  the  mixture  and  put  on  an  upper  crust.  Set  in  the  oven  in 
a  large  shallow  pan  in  which  a  cup  of  hot  water  has  been  poured. 
Bake  an  hour  in  a  good  moderate  oven. 

Stewed  Young  Onions — Place  a  pint  of  young  onions  in  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Pour  off  water  and  pour  over 
them  one  cup  milk,  and  stew  till  tender.  Add  half-teaspoon  salt 
and  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  olive. 

Strawberry  Meringue — Take  what  puff  paste  you  have  left 
from  the  "pate"  and  roll  out  very  thin.  Cut  it  the  size  and  shape 
of  a  large  dinner  plate  and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown  in  a  quick 
oven.  Roll  what  strawberries  you  have  in  powdered  sugar.  Pile 
and  pack  firmly  on  the  crust,  which  has  been  well  buttered,  and 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar.  Bake  until  the  meringue  is 
slightly  browned  and  eat  while  warm.  Mrs.  E.  H.  Lowe. 

No.  712  North  6th  Street,  East  St.  Louis,  111. 


236  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

WEDNESDAY,  MAY  THE  TWENTY-SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Beef  croquettes.  Rice  mufRns. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Columbus  eggs.  Saratoga  chips. 

Pineapple.  Gold  cake. 

Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Potato  soup. 

Roast  of  veal  with  gravy. 

Baked  potatoes.  Asparagus  in  ambush. 

Frozen  custard.  Angel's  food. 

Coffee. 


Beef  Croquettes — Take  cold  beef  left  from  dinner  the  day 
before.  Chop  fine;  have  one  cupful  when  it  is  chopped;  then 
add  two  cupfuls  of  fine  bread  crumbs  and  moisten  with  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk;  season  with  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  one-fourth  as  much  pepper.  Form  into  balls,  dip 
in  beaten  egg  (one  egg),  roll  in  fine  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in 
hot  beef  drippings. 

Columbus  Eggs — Peel  the  shells  from  ten  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  cut  each  egg  in  two  through  the  center,  cutting  off  a  small 
piece  from  one  end,  so  that  they  will  stand  on  end.  Pulverize 
the  yolks  and  mix  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  lean  ham, 
chopped  fine;  moisten  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and 
season  with  one  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  one  teaspoon  of  mustard 
and  a  good  pinch  of  pepper.  Mix  smooth  and  fill  the  empty 
whites,  being  careful  not  to  break  them,  and  press  the  two  halves 
together.  The  filling  which  remains  over  may  be  made  into  a 
dressing  by  adding  a  little  more  vinegar  and  pouring  over  the 
eggs. 

Pineapple — Two  hours  before  serving  shred  one  pineapple 
and  mix  with  it  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sugar;  let  stand  on  ice 
or  in  refrigerator. 

Gold  Cake — One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  butter, 
yolks  of  five  eggs  and  one  whole  egg,  one-half  cupful  of  milk, 
two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  well- 
beaten  eggs,  then  the  milk,  vanilla,  fiour,  and  lastly  the  baking 
powder,  just  before  putting  in  the  oven.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Potato  Soup — In  a  kettle  containing  two  quarts  of  hot  water 
put  one-half  cupful  of 'chopped  bacon,  three  chopped  onions,  one- 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  237 

half  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Boil  fifteen  minutes;  peel  and  slice  one 
pint  of  raw  potatoes,  and  boil  the  whole  again  until  the  potatoes 
are  cooked  to  a  pulp;  strain  and  add  more  hot  water  if  too  thick. 

Frozen  Custard — Take  one  quart  of  rich  milk,  the  beaten 
yolks  of  three  eggs  and  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sugar;  cook 
until  it  begins  to  thicken,  remove  from  the  fire  and  cool;  then 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  one  cupful  of  cream  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very  firm;  mix  all  together  well  and 
freeze. 

Angels'  Food — Break  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs  into  a  large 
cake  bowl  and  beat  stiff;  add  gradually  one  and  one-half  tumbler- 
fuls  of  granulated  sugar  which  has  been  sifted  eight  times;  then 
one  tumblerful  of  fiour  which  has  been  sifted  five  times;  the 
fifth  time  sift  in  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  then  add 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Keep  stirring  while  you  turn  it  into 
the  pan.  Bake  from  forty  to  fifty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven 
and  in  a  pan  that  has  never  been  greased. 

Many  think  angel's  food  an  expensive  cake,  but  when  it  is 
considered  how  cheap  eggs  are  at  this  season  of  the  year — while 
butter  is  high — it  is  one  of  the  most  economical  cakes  that  can 
be  made.  Five  of  the  yolks  left  should  be  used  for  the  gold  cake 
and  those  that  remain  can  be  scrambled  for  breakfast  the  next 
morning,  or  used  in  a  baked  custard,  Mrs.  R.  G.  Wilbur. 

No.  13  North  Manning  Street,  Hillsdale,  Mich. 


THURSDAY,  MAY  THE  TWENTY-SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  bananas.  Oatmeal  and  cream. 

Stewed  kidney. 

Hot  buttered  toast.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Fried  perch. 

Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Cucumber.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Roast  of  rib  mutton  chops. 

Potatoes  au  gratin.  Spinach. 

Pineapple  fritters. 

After-dinner  coffee. 


Stewed  Kidney — Take  a  nice  fresh  beef  kidney,  let  stand  in 
cold  water  about  ten  minutes.  Remove  all  fat  and  skin,  then 
cut  with  a  knife  or  chop  into  small  pieces  about  the  size  of  dice. 


238  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

Put  in  a  stew  pot,  just  cover  with  cold  water  and  put  on  over  a 
very  slow  fire.  Add  a  slice  of  onion,  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  quarter 
teaspoon  pepper,  three  dessertspoons  canned  tomatoes,  half  a 
teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce.  Let  simmer,  not  boil,  about  an 
hour,  or  until  tender.  Take  about  a  tablespoonful  of  the  gravy 
in  a  cup  and  when  cool  mix  with  it  a  dessertspoon  of  flour  to  a 
smooth,  thin  paste;  gradually  stir  into  the  kidneys  until  they 
seem  thick  enough.  Let  simmer  a  little  while  longer.  Serve  very 
hot  in  a  covered  dish. 

This  can  be  prepared  the  day  before  and  simply  heated  next 
morning  for  breakfast.  Delicious.  A  beef  kidney  can  be  bought 
for  5  cents. 

The  bread  and  butter  can  be  cut  as  thin  as  a  wafer  by  leaving 
the  butter  rather  soft  and  spreading  it  on  the  loaf  before  cutting 
off  the  slice.  Use  a  very  sharp  knife.  Put  in  ice-box  until  lunch 
is  ready. 

Roast  of  Rib-Mutton  Chops — Get  five  or  six  rib  chops  cut 
in  one  piece.  They  will  weigh  about  two  pounds.  Have  the 
bones  cracked  by  the  butcher,  making  the  roast  easy  to  carve. 
This  is  a  delicious  roast  and  much  nicer  at  this  season  than  the 
leg  of  mutton.    Cook  in  hot  oven  about  forty  minutes. 

Pineapple  Fritters — Make  a  batter  with  one  egg,  beaten 
separately.  Add  half  a  cup  of  milk  to  the  yolk,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  the  beaten  white  and 
half  a  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Get  a  fresh  pineapple,  or  a  can 
of  the  eyeless  and  coreless  pineapple;  take  as  many  slices  as 
wanted  and  cut  each  one  in  two.  Dip  each  piece  in  the  batter 
and  fry  in  smoking  hot  lard.  Drain,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar 
and  serve  on  a  pretty  dish  with  a  plain  linen  doiley  under  the 
fritters  or  a  napkin.  One  can  of  pineapple  will  do  for  two  or 
three  meals.  Mrs.  L.  B.  Russell. 

No.  4425  Vincennes  Avenue,  Chicago. 


FRIDAY,  MAY  THE  TWENTY-EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cerealine  flakes,  cream  and  sugar. 

Sliced  tomatoes. 

Soft-boiled  eggs.  Cream  toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Watercress.  Strawberry  shortcake. 

Orangeade. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  239 

DINNER. 

Cream  of  asparagus  soup. 

Baked  shad  with  lemon.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Lettuce,  with  French  dressing. 

Junket.        Sponge  cake. 

Coffee. 


Orangeade — Cut  four  oranges  in  two  and  with  a  tablespoon 
scoop  out  the  juice  and  pulp  of  each  piece,  reserving  one  to  grate 
up,  rind  included.  Carefully  remove  seeds,  sweeten  to  taste  and 
add  three  pints  of  cold  water. 

Cream,  of  Asparagus  Soup — Boil  one  quart  of  asparagus,  cut 
in  inch  lengths,  in  one  quart  of  water  until  tender.  Rub  through 
a  colander  and  return  to  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled;  add 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Heat  one  pint  of 
milk;  stir  into  it  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  rubbed  with  one  of 
fiour;  let  it  boil  and  pour  into  asparagus.  Cut  toasted  bread  in 
dice  and  pour  soup  over.     Serve  at  once. 

Baked  Shad  with  Lemon — Get  a  shad  or  any  other  seasonable 
fish  weighing  from  three  to  four  pounds.  Make  a  dressing  of  one 
pint  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  minced  onion,  one 
tablespoonful  butter,  one  beaten-egg,  and  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  quarter-teaspoonful  pepper.  Stuff  the  fish  and  sew 
or  tie  it  securely.  Place  in  a  baking-pan  with  one  pint  of  water 
(cold).  Lay  strips  of  bacon  on  top  of  fish,  sprinkle  lightly  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  basting  often. 
When  done,  thicken  the  gravy,  pour  over  fish,  and  serve  with 
thin  slices  of  lemon. 

Junket — Sweeten  to  taste  one  quart  of  rich  milk,  stir  in  one 
tablespoonful  liquid  rennet  and  pour  into  a  glass  dish.  Set  near 
the  stove  where  it  will  get  warm,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to 
thicken  set  away  to  get  cold  as  possible.  Sweeten  some  cream 
or  rich  milk,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  over  the  junket  when 
serving.  Mrs.  S.  P.  Carusi. 

Osage,  Iowa. 


SATURDAY,  MAY  THE  TWENTY-NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 

Cracked  wheat  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Sweetbreads  and  eggs  on  toast. 

Radishes.  Crullers. 

Coffee. 


240  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

A  dainty  luncheon  dish. 

Baked  potatoes.  Sliced  cucumbers. 

Whole  wheat  bread.  Molasses  wafers. 

Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Fish  soup. 

Larded  calf's  liver.  Potatoes  a  la  royale. 

Peas.  Young  onions. 

Queen  of  puddings. 

Coffee  or  tea. 


Sweetbreads  and  Eggs  on  Toast — Boil  a  pair  of  sweetbreads 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  drain  and  cool  them.  Remove  all 
skin  and  sinews  and  cut  the  sweetbreads  into  neat  square  pieces. 
Put  them  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  little  olive  oil,  and  when  hot 
break  over  them  three  eggs.  Mix  the  eggs  well  with  the  sweet- 
breads. Have  ready  a  few  slices  of  toast;  arrange  slices  on  a  hot 
platter  and  add  the  cooked  ingredients  after  seasoning  with  two- 
thirds  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  pepper. 

Crullers — Three  eggs,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  two  cups  of 
flour,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Roll  half  an  inch  thick, 
cut  out  with  a  very  small  cake  cutter  having  a  hole  in  the  center 
and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

A  Dainty  Luncheon  Dish — Eight  slices  of  cold  roast  beef  cut 
thin  in  a  saucepan  set  in  boiling  water;  cover  with  a  gravy  com- 
posed of  three  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter;  walnut  catsup  and 
vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  each;  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  pinch  of  pepper,  a  spoonful  each  of  currant  jelly,  home-made 
mustard  and  warm  water;  steam  for  half  an  hour.  With  rare 
roast  beef  this  is  very  nice. 

Molasses  Wafers — Mix  well  together  one  cupful  of  butter, 
one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  molasses  and  two  cupfuls  of 
flour.  Drop  a  few  spoonfuls  into  a  pan  in  different  places  and  put 
in  the  oven.  It  will  melt  and  run  together.  Let  it  bake  until  it 
begins  to  harden  on  the  edges,  then  remove.  Cut  it  into  squares 
and  while  it  is  still  hot  and  soft  roll  each  piece  around  a  stick. 

Fish  Soup — Three  pounds  of  any  fresh  fish  when  cleaned, 
skinned  and  beheaded,  two  cups  of  milk,  heated  with  a  pinch 
of  soda,  two  tablespoons  of  flour  rubbed  up  with  three  of  butter, 
two  beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  parsley,  three 
cups  of  cold  water,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper  and  one  tablespoon 
salt.  Cover  the  dish  with  cold  water  and  stew  gently  until  the 
flesh  slips  easily  from  the  bones;  take  from  the  fire,  pick  out  and 
throw  away  the  bones;  chop  the  fish,  strain  the  liquor  in  which 
it  was  boiled  and  return  all  to  the  fire;  as  it  boils  stir  in  floured 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  241 

butter,  seasoning  and  parsley;  boil  two  minutes;  pour  the  scald- 
ing milk  from  another  vessel  over  the  eggs,  turn  into  the  tureen, 
add  the  fish  soup  and  serve.  Line  the  tureen  with  Boston  crackers, 
split  and  soaked  in  boiling  milk  before  pouring  the  soup  upon 
them. 

Larded  Calf's  Liver — Wash  a  fresh  calf's  liver  and  soak  it  for 
an  hour  in  cold  salted  water;  wipe  dry  and  with  a  sharp  knife 
make  incisions  clear  through  the  liver  an  inch  apart;  into  these 
put  strips  of  fat  salt  pork  long  enough  to  project  on  both  sides; 
into  the  bottom  of  the  pot  put  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion, 
some  chopped  parsley,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper  and  one-half 
cupful  of  strained  tomato  juice;  on  this  lay  the  liver,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  as  much  onion  on  top  as  there  is  below;  cover 
lightly  and  set  at  one  side  the  range  where  it  will  not  reach  the 
boiling  point  under  an  hour;  gradually  increase  the  heat,  but 
never  let  it  be  strong  for  two  hours  more,  when  uncover  the  pot 
for  the  first  time  to  test  with  a  fork  if  it  he  tender;  take  out  the 
liver  and  keep  hot  while  you  strain  the  gravy;  thicken  with  a 
greatspoonful  of  browned  flour  wet  in  cold  water;  pour  over  the 
liver;  carve  the  latter  horizontally. 

Potato  a  la  Royale — One  pint  of  hot  boiled  potatoes,  a  half 
cupful  of  cream  or  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  and  yolk  of  one,  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-fourth 
teaspoon  pepper.  Beat  the  potato  very  light  and  fine.  Add  the 
seasoning,  cream  and  butter,  then  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish.  Smooth  with  a  knife  and  brush 
over  with  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  which  has  been  well-beaten. 
Brown  quickly  and  serve. 

Queen  of  Puddings — One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  cups 
fine  dry  bread  crumbs,  five  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
teaspoon  vanilla,  one  quart  rich  milk  and  one-half  cup  jelly  or 
jam.  Rub  the  butter  into  a  cup  of  sugar;  beat  the  yolks  light  and 
stir  these  together  to  a  cream;  add  the  bread  crumbs  soaked  in 
milk,  then  the  seasoning.  Bake  this  in  a  large  buttered  pudding 
dish  until  the  custard  is  set.  Draw  to  the  mouth  of  oven,  spread 
over  with  jelly  or  jam.  Cover  this  with  a  meringue  made  of  the 
whipped  whites  and  half  cup  of  sugar.  Shut  the  oven  and  bake 
until  brown.    Eat  cold,  with  cream.  Mrs.  A.  K.  Yerkes. 

Bozeman,  Mont. 


SUNDAY,  MAY  THE  THIRTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries  and  cream. 

Broiled  breakfast  bacon.  Dry  toast. 

Breakfast  bread.  Coffee, 


242  THE  CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Macaroni  croquettes.  Shirred  eggs. 

Crackers. 

Sponge  cake.  Orange  jam. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  tomato  soup. 

Roast  leg  of  lamb,  mint  sauce. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Green  peas. 

Fruit  blanc  mange.  Coffee. 


Breakfast  Bread — Three  eggs  beaten  until  very  light,  two  and 
one-half  cups  of  milk,  two  cups  of  Indian  meal  (white),  a  pinch 
of  salt,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  cup  of  cold 
boiled  rice,  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter.  Beat  ingredients 
thoroughly  together.  Pour  into  greased  shallow  pans  and  bake 
for  half  an  hour. 

Macaroni  Croquettes — One  pint  cold  minced  macaroni,  one  and 
one-half  cups  boiling  milk,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful  grated  cheese,  one  tablespoonful  flour.  Mix  flour  with  a 
little  cold  milk  and  add  cheese,  butter  and  boiling  milk.  Stir 
macaroni  in  this  sauce,  three-fourths  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one- 
fourth  saltspoonful  pepper,  add  a  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  and  cook 
for  a  minute.    When  cold  shape  into  croquettes  and  fry. 

Shirred  Eggs — Grease  a  shallow  pan,  break  eggs  carefully 
into  it,  sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  steam  till 
whites  are  set.     Serve. 

Orange  Jam — Slice  twelve  oranges  thin;  remove  seeds;  put  to 
stand  over  night  in  six  pints  of  water.  Add  six  pounds  of  sugar. 
Boil  till  thick.     Sufficient  for  several  days. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup — Rub  quart  can  of  tomatoes  through  a 
colander,  removing  skin  and  seeds.  Add  one  quart  of  water  and 
boil.  Make  a  cream  with  flour,  butter  and  milk,  allowing  one 
tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter  to  one  pint  of  milk.  Bring 
this  sauce  to  a  boil,  add  tomatoes,  season  with  one  heaping  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  saltspoon  pepper.     Serve. 

Green  Peas — Wash  the  pods,  shell  the  peas  and  put  the  pods 
into  a  pot,  cover  and  boil  thoroughly;  then  strain  and  put  peas 
into  the  same  water  and  boil  tender.  Season  with  a  teaspoonful 
butter,  one-half  saltspoon  pepper  and  a  half-teaspoon  salt.  The 
water  left  from  cooking  these  peas  may  be  saved  in  a  cool  place 
and  used  for  soup  the  next  day  by  adding  milk,  thickening,  more 
seasoning  and  any  peas  that  remain  from  the  meal,  or  it  may  be 
blended  with  stock. 

Fruit  Blanc  Mange — Stew  fresh  fruit  (cherries  and  raspber- 
ries being  the  best  when  in  season),  strain  off  juice  and  sweeten 
to  taste.     Place  it  over  the  fire  in  a  double  kettle  till  it  boils; 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  ^BOOK.  243 

while  boiling  stir  in  cornstarch  wet  with  a  little  cold  water,  allow- 
ing two  tablespoonfuls  of  starch  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Continue 
stirring  until  sufficiently  cooked.  Pour  into  molds  wet  in  cold 
water  and  set  away  to  cool.    Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

A.  A.  G.  Touch. 
No.  119  East  55th  Street,  Chicago. 


MONDAY,  MAY  THE  THIRTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  fresh  pineapple. 

Creamed  calves'  brains.  Potato  drops. 

Kinsley  muffins.        Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Eggs  en  fromage.  Brown  bread  sandwiches. 

Radishes. 

Fruit  salad.  Trifles. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Iced  meat  jelly. 

Beefsteak  with  rice.  Browned  potatoes. 

Watercress. 

Asparagus  salad. 

Salted  biscuit.  Cheese. 

Strawberries  in  snow. 

Coffee. 


Creamed  Calves'  Brains — Remove  the  membrane  from  a  pound 
of  brains  and  blanch  by  soaking  them  in  salted  water  until  all 
the  blood  is  out.  Scald,  parboil  in  salted  water  for  ten  minutes. 
While  they  are  parboiling  make  a  cream  sauce  by  melting  to- 
gether in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour;  when  they  are  blended  pour  in  slowly  one 
pint  of  milk,  stirring  constantly.  When  it  is  creamed  add  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and 
the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Put  the  brains  on 
small  squares  of  toast  on  platter  and  pour  over  all  the  sauce. 
Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  thin  half-slices  of  lemon. 

Potato  Drops — Pare  the  potatoes,  cut  into  small  cubes  and 
drop  into  iced  water  until  chilled.  Dry  on  cloth  and  drop  into 
smoking-hot  lard.  Fry  until  a  rich  brown  and  remove  with  a 
skimmer,  laying  them  on  brown  paper  to  drain.  Salt  and  serve 
hot. 

Kinsley  Muffins — Beat  together  three  eggs  and  one-half  pint 
of  milk.    Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered 


244  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

sugar.  Sift  together  one  pint  of  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder  and  stir  into  the  first  mixture;  beat  well.  Butter 
the  irons  and  fill  about  half  full.    Have  a  medium  hot  oven. 

Eggs  en  Fromage — This  is  a  dish  which  can  be  made  at  the 
table  in  the  chafing  dish  if  desired.  Melt  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  add  one  small  cupful  of  grated  dry  cheese;  stir  con- 
stantly until  the  cheese  is  creamed.  Have  broken  and  slightly 
beaten  six  eggs  and  add  to  cheese  and  butter;  salt  and  a  dash  of 
cayenne  pepper  should  be  added  while  stirring.  Cook  until  the 
eggs  are  "scrambled." 

Brown  Bread  Sandwiches — Cut  the  bread  very  thin  and  butter 
only  one  of  the  slices  that  go  together.  Cut  into  round  shapes 
with  a  biscuit  cutter. 

Fruit  Salad — Smuggle  two  slices  of  pineapple  from  the  morn- 
ing fruit  and  cut  into  small  pieces;  stem  one  pint  of  strawberries; 
cut  into  small  pieces  two  oranges  and  three  bananas.  Place  in 
a  shallow  dish  and  pour  over  it  all  a  dressing  made  by  beating 
until  light  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  cup  of  sifted  powdered  sugar 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Add  the  juice  of  two  lemons 
when  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Put  on  ice  and  serve 
cold. 

Trifles — Work  one  egg  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  in  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  a  stiff  paste.  Roll  it  as  thin  as  a  silver 
dollar  and  cut  into  small  cakes.  Drop  a  few  at  a  time  into  hot 
lard.  Cook  until  they  rise  to  the  surface  and  turn  over.  Re- 
move with  a  skimmer  and  drain. 

Iced  Meat  Jelly — Cut  into  small  pieces  a  pound  of  soup  meat 
and  add  water  enough  to  cover,  simmer  slowly  until  all  the  nutri- 
ment is  cooked  out.  Two  hours  before  removing  from  the  stove 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  savory  herbs  and  a  little  salt.  Keep  the 
top  clear  of  scum,  and  when  done  strain  and  set  in  a  cold  place. 
When  it  has  jellied  remove  the  grease  from  the  top  and  place  the 
jelly  on  ice.  When  ready  to  serve  it,  break  it  into  moderate 
pieces  with  a  spoon  and  serve  in  bouillon  cups. 

Beefsteak  with  Rice — An  unwritten  law  of  epicures  is  that 
red  meats  shall  be  served  rare  and  white  meats  well  done.  Beef- 
steak should  always  be  cut  at  least  an  inch  or  one  and  one-half 
inches  thick.  Broil  over  a  hot,  even  fire,  and  season  only  when 
done.  Serve  with  the  rice  (which  has  been  seasoned  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt)  banked  around  it  on  the  platter  and  garnish  with 
cress. 

Asparagus  Salad — Wash,  tie  together  the  asparagus,  and  boil 
until  done.  When  cold  carefully  cut  the  strings  so  that  the  ends 
will  not  break;  lay  away  on  the  ice  until  it  is  to  be  used.  Serve 
with  a  French  dressing  made  by  powdering  the  yolk  of  a  hard- 
boiled  egg,  adding  two  parts  of  oil  to  one  of  vinegar,  with  salt 
and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  If  a  slight  flavor  of  onion  is  relished, 
onion  vinegar  (made  by  pouring  vinegar  over  a  sliced  onion  and 
allowing  it  to  stand)  may  be  used. 

Strawberries  in  Snow — Pour  one  cupful  of  cold  water  and  one 
of  sugar  over  a  half-package  of  Cox's  gelatine.    When  soft  add 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  245 

one  cupful  of  boiling  water  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons;  then  the 
whites  of  four  well-beaten  eggs  (the  whites  left  from  the  eggs 
used  for  the  fruit  salad  can  be  utilized).  Beat  all  together  until 
very  light  and  frothy;  just  before  it  "sets"  add  one  pint  of  whole 
strawberries  and  pour  into  a  mold  which  has  been  dipped  in 
water.    Serve  very  cold  with  cream.  Annetta  G.  Crafts. 

South  Central  Avenue,  Austin,  111. 


TUESDAY,  JUNE  THE  FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries  on  stem. 

Salt  fish  souffle.  Fresh  rolls. 

Wheatlet  muffins.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Scotch  eggs.  Bread  and  butter. 

Radishes. 

Favorite  cookies.  Banana  cream. 

Cocoa. 

DINNER. 

Veal  cutlets  with  white  sauce. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Fried  cucumbers. 

Lady  cake.  Crystallized  pineapple. 

Coffee. 


Salt  Fish  Souffle — One  pint  of  finely  chopped,  cooked,  fresh- 
ened salt  fish,  eight  good-sized  potatoes,  three-fourths  of  a  cup- 
ful of  milk,  four  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  quarter  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  pepper,  two  generous  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Pare  the  potatoes  and  boil  thirty  minutes,  drain  and  mash  fine, 
then  mix  thoroughly  with  the  fish.  Add  butter,  seasoning  and  the 
hot  milk.  Have  two  of  the  eggs  well  beaten,  which  stir  into  the 
mixture,  and  heat  this  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served.  Place  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  two  remaining  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  a  half  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  then  add  yolks.  Spread  this  over  the  dish  of 
fish,  return  to  the  oven  and  brown.     Serve. 

Wheatlet  Muffins — Two  cupfuls  of  hot  wheatlet  mush,  two  of 
entire  wheat  fiour,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter  (melted),  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  of  sugar 
and  two  of  baking  powder.  Add  the  milk,  beaten  eggs,  salt, 
melted  butter  and  sugar  to  the  warm  mush;  stir  in  the  fiour  and 
baking  powder  and  bake  in  hot  gem  pans  in  quick  oven. 

Scotch  Eggs — One  cupful  of  cooked  lean  ham  chopped  very 
fine,  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  one-third  of  a 


246  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

cupful  of  milk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard;  cayenne 
enough  to  cover  a  silver  5-cent  piece,  one  raw  egg  and  six  hard- 
boiled.  Cook  the  bread  and  milk  together  until  a  smooth  paste. 
Add  to  the  ham  and  add  the  seasoning  and  raw  egg.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Break  the  shells  from  the  hard-boiled  eggs  and  cover 
with  this  mixture.  Put  in  a  frying  basket  and  plunge  into  boiling 
fat  for  two  minutes. 

Favorite  Cookies — One  cupful  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cup- 
fuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one-quarter  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda,  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg.  Flour  enough  to  roll; 
make  quite  soft.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  fine  sugar  on  a  plate  and 
dip  the  tops  of  each  as  you  cut  them  out.  Place  on  buttered  tins 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  a  light  brown. 

Banana  Cream — After  peeling  the  bananas  mash  them  with 
a  wooden  spoon;  allow  equal  quantities  of  bananas  and  sweet 
cream;  to  one  quart  of  the  mixture  allow  one-quarter  of  a  pound 
of  sugar.    Beat  all  together  until  light. 

Veal  Cutlets  with  White  Sauce — One  and  a  half  pounds  of 
cutlets,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  slice  of  carrot  and  a  small 
slice  of  onion.  Put  the  butter  and  the  vegetables,  cut  fine,  in  a 
saucepan.  Season  the  cutlets  with  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  lay  them  on  the 
butter  and  vegetables.  Cover  tightly  and  cook  slowly  for 
half  an  hour;  then  take  out  the  cutlets,  dip  in  egg  and  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat  till  a  golden  brown.  Serve 
with  a  white  sauce  poured  on.  Put  a  quart  of  green  peas  in  the 
center  of  the  dish,  lay  the  cutlets  around  and  pour  a  sauce  over 
them  made  as  follows: 

White  Sauce — Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  the  butter 
and  vegetables  in  which  the  cutlets  were  cooked.  Stir  until 
smooth,  being  careful  not  to  brown.  Add  a  pint  of  milk  gradu- 
ally, stirring  all  the  while.  Season  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  half  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Boil  for  two  minutes,  strain 
and  serve. 

Fried  Cucumbers — Pare  them  and  cut  lengthwise  in  very 
thick  slices;  wipe  them  dry  with  a  cloth;  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and  fry  in  lard  and  butter,  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  each  mixed.    Brown  both  sides  and  serve  warm. 

Lady  Cake — Take  two  and  a  half  scant  teacupfuls  flour  and, 
after  sifting  well,  mix  with  it  one  level  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder  and  sift  again;  add  one  and  a  half  teacupfuls  of  powdered 
sugar,  blended  with  half  a  teacupful  of  butter;  beat  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  to  a  froth;  add  gradually  to  the  flour  half  a  teacupful 
of  milk,  follow  with  the  sugar  and  the  butter,  and  next  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  finishing  up  with  a  few  drops  of  the  essence 
of  almond.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Crystallized  Pineapple — Cut  a  pineapple  into  thin  slices  and 
then  again  into  quarters.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth;  lay  the  fruit  in  this,  drain  and  beat  again  the  part  that 
drips  off.  Select  the  pieces  one  by  one  and  dip  them  into  finely 
powdered  sugar.    Cover  a  pan  with  a  sheet  of  fine  paper,  place 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  247 

the  fruit  in  it  and  put  in  an  oven  that  is  cooling.  When  the 
icing  on  the  fruit  becomes  firm  pile  them  on  a  dish  and  set  them 
in  a  cool  place  until  wanted.  Mrs.  John  Buie. 

No.  170  Harding  Avenue,  Chicago. 


WEDNESDAY,  JUNE  THE  SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges.  Veal  rechauffe. 

Lyonnaise  potatoes. 

Rice  bread.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Broiled  whitefish. 

Cucumber  with  French  dressing. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Strawberry  shortcake.  Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

French  mutton  chops,  breaded. 

Mashed  potatoes.        Spinach  with  egg. 

Pineapple  sherbet. 

Angels'  food.  Coffee. 


Veal  Rechauffe — Chop  fine  enough  cold  veal  from  yesterday's 
roast  to  make  one  cupful,  add  to  it  one  cupful  of  bread  crumbs, 
mixing  lightly;  season  with  one  small  teaspoouful  of  salt  and  a 
little  black  pepper;  let  one  cup  of  milk  come  to  a  boil;  mix  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  thoroughly 
and  add  to  the  rnilk,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce 
and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper;  cook  until  thickened,  beating  well 
to  make  it  smooth;  add  meat  and  bread  crumbs;  mix  well  and 
put  in  a  baker  in  a  hot  oven  to  brown.  Be  sure  and  have  the 
mixture  very  hot  before  adding  the  veal  and  bread  crumbs;  it 
makes  it  much  lighter. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes — Fry  one  scant  tablespoonful  of  minced 
onions  in  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  until  yellow;  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  mild  vinegar;  put  into  this  one  pint  of  cold 
sliced  potatoes,  seasoned  v/ith  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
stir  with  a  fork  until  they  have  absorbed  all  the  butter,  iDeing 
careful  not  to  break  them;  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley  and  serve  hot.  The  heated  vinegar  gives  a  delicious  flavor 
to  the  potatoes. 

Rice  Bread — Take  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  cooked  sea- 
soned rice  that  has  been  left  over  and  mix  with  it  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.    Add  a  generous 


248  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

teaspoonful  of  melted  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  cup  of  sifted  flour 
in  which  is  one-half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Last  of  all 
add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  buttered  tins  an  inch 
thick. 

Broiled  Whitefish — Get  a  fresh  whitefish  of  two  or  three 
pounds,  clean  thoroughly  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  Rub  the  inside 
of  the  fish  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  saltspoonful  of 
salt  and  lay  on  a  buttered  gridiron  inside  down  over  a  clear  fire. 
When  lower  side  is  browned  turn  the  fish.  It  should  be  done  in 
about  twenty  minutes.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  melted  and  poured  over  the  fish. 

Cucumber  with  French  Dressing — Peel  two  good-sized  cucum- 
bers and  let  them  lie  in  ice  water  for  an  hour.  Then  slice  them, 
place  in  a  bowl  and  pour  over  them  a  mixture  of  one  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar,  tv/o  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Strawberry  Shortcake — One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
and  milk  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Bake  in  a  large  pie- 
plate.  When  cool  split  with  a  large  knife  and  insert  a  generous 
layer  of  strawberries  and  granulated  sugar.  Replace  the  top 
and  cover  with  strawberries  and  sugar.  Should  there  be  a 
cupful  of  berries  left,  mash  them,  add  sugar  and  a  pint  of  hot 
milk.    Serve  in  a  pitcher  with  shortcake. 

French  Mutton  Chops  Breaded — Take  five  or  six  nice  rib  chops 
(they  will  weigh  about  two  pounds)  and  have  the  butcher 
*'French"  them.  Pepper  and  salt  the  chops  and  roll  them  in  an 
egg  well-beaten.  Then  roll  in  fine  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  brown 
in  very  hot  lard. 

Pineapple  Sherbet  —  Shred  a  fresh  pineapple  (the  canned 
fruit  will  answer),  add  one  pint  of  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  water, 
juice  of  one  lemon,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  that  has 
been  soaked  for  one  hour  in  one  cup  of  cold  water,  and  dissolve 
in  one  cup  of  hot  water;    mix  all  together  well  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  Fisher. 

Fort  Meade,  S.  D. 


THURSDAY,  JUNE  THE  THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Radishes. 
Brewis,  cream  and  sugar. 

Breakfast  crackers,  baked. 
Cuban  eggs.  Baked  potatoes. 


LUNCHEON. 

Asparagus,  with  eggs.  Dried  beef. 

Pieplant  bird's  nest.  Graham  bread. 

Oatmeal  water. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  249 

DINNER. 

Sorrel  soup. 

Escalloped  calves'  brains. 

Potatoes,  with  parsley.  Wax  beans. 

Strawberry  tapioca,  with  sauce. 

Tea. 


Brewis,  Cream  and  Sugar — Stir  into  one  pint  of  boiling  milk 
one  cupful  of  dried  and  browned  bread  crumbs  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.    Serve  immediately.    Increase  the  quantity  if  needed. 

Breakfast  Crackers,  Baked — Warm  one  cup  of  milk,  season 
with  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  butter.  Split  six  Boston  crackers,  pour  the  milk  over  them  and 
let  them  soak  it  all  up.  Then  lay  the  crackers,  crust  down,  in  a 
deep  baking-dish.  Put  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  a  piece  of  butter 
and  a  sprinkle  of  pepper  on  each  one;  then  lay  in  the  rest  of  the 
crackers,  seasoning  in  the  same  way.  Beat  an  egg,  mix  with 
one  cup  of  milk  and  pour  over  the  crackers.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
twenty  minutes. 

Cuban  Eggs  —  Six  eggs,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  minced 
onion,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  minced  sausage  meat,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Cook 
meat  and  onion  over  hot  fire  five  minutes.  Beat  the  eggs, 
add  salt  and  pepper.  Draw  the  pan  back  to  the  cooler  part  of  the 
range  and  add  the  eggs.  Stir  until  the  eggs  become  thick  and 
creamy;  pour  into  warm  dish.     Serve  on  hot  buttered  toast. 

Asparagus  with  Eggs — Use  two  bunches  of  asparagus,  half  a 
dozen  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  two  and  a  half 
level  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  After  cutting  off  the  tough  ends  wash 
the  asparagus,  tie  it  in  a  bundle  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it.  Boil  for  twenty-five  minutes, 
adding  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  at  the  end  of  the  first  quarter  of 
an  hour.  When  done  take  from  fire  and  drain.  Untie  the  bundle 
and  place  the  asparagus  in  a  baking-dish.  Spread  half  the  butter 
on  it  and  set  the  dish  to  keep  hot.  Beat  the  eggs  light  and  add 
half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the  remainder  of  the  butter,  broken 
into  bits.  Pour  this  mixture  over  the  asparagus  and  set  dish  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  four  minutes.     Serve  very  hot. 

Pieplant  Bird's  Nest — Butter  a  pie-plate  well,  wash  the  pie- 
plant, but  do  not  peel;  cut  in  very  small  pieces  and  fill  the  tin 
half  full.  Make  a  batter  of  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  sour  cream, 
one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  pinch  of  salt  and  flour  to  make 
stiff  batter;  pour  this  over  the  pieplant.  Bake  one-half  hour  in 
a  quick  oven  and  eat  with  sweetened  cream.  This  can  be  made 
of  other  kinds  of  fruit. 

Oatmeal  Water — Make  a  very  thin  gruel  by  using  at  the  rate 
of  one  tablespoonful  of  oatmeal  to  a  quart  of  water.  Boil  for  an 
hour;  strain  and  let  it  get  very  cold.  It  is  an  improvement  to  add 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  each  quart. 

Sorrel  Soup— This  palatable  spring  soup  requires  a  quart  of 


250  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

sorrel,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
a  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  half  an  onion,  half  a  cupful  of 
water,  a  pint  of  milk  and  a  pint  of  cream.  After  washing  the 
sorrel  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  cold  water  and  boil 
ten  minutes;  drain  and  chop  the  sorrel  very  fine;  cut 
the  onion  into  bits,  cook  it  slowly  in  the  butter  in 
a  frying-pan  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the  flour,  and 
stir  until  smooth  and  frothy;  add  the  chopped  sorrel,  sugar,  salt 
and  pepper,  and,  after  stirring  for  three  minutes,  gradually  pour 
in  the  cold  milk;  simmer  for  five  minutes  and  heat  the  cream  to 
the  boiling  point;  strain  the  soup;  add  the  cream  to  it.  Serve 
immediately.  Milk  may  be  substituted  for  the  cream,  or  a  pint 
of  white  stock.  If  liked,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  can  be  added,  pouring  the  soup  upon  this 
mixture  just  before  serving  time.  Do  not  stir  the  eggs  into  the 
soup,  because  they  would  then  be  cooked  in  flakes,  whereas  by 
the  other  way  they  are  cooked  to  a  smooth  cream.  Sorrel  soup 
is  not  as  handsome  as  some  green  soups,  because  the  heat  spoils 
the  color,  but  it  is  delicious. 

Bscalloped  Calves'  Brains — Two  sets  of  brains  are  required, 
a  pint  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  an  egg,  a  tea- 
spoonful of  butter,  half-teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  onion  juice,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  grain  of  pep- 
per, and  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  After  soaking  the  brains  in 
warm  water  for  two  hours,  free  them  from  the  skin  and  large 
fibres  and  wash  them  in  cold  water.  Tie  them  loosely  in  a  piece 
of  thin  muslin  and,  putting  them  in  a  sauce-pan,  pour  in  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  them.  Add  the  spoonful  of  vinegar  and 
then  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour.  At  the  end  of  that  time  take 
them  from  the  boiling  water  and  plunge  them  into  cold  water. 
When  they  are  cold  drain  them  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Heat 
the  butter  in  a  small  frying-pan  and  before  it  turns  brown  add 
the  flour.  Stir  until  smooth  and  gradually  add  the  milk.  When 
this  boils  up  add  the  chopped  parsley,  onion  juice  and  half  the 
pepper  and  salt.  Sprinkle  the  remainder  of  the  seasoning  on  the 
brains.  Beat  the  egg  light  and  mix  it  with  the  brains.  Put  a 
thin  layer  of  crumbs  on  the  bottom  of  an  escallop  dish,  spread 
on  these  half  the  quantity  of  brains,  next  a  layer  of  half  the 
sauce,  then  a  thin  layer  of  crumbs.  Add  a  second  layer  of  brains, 
sauce  and  crumbs.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Wax  Beans — Take  two  quarts  of  wax  beans,  string  them,  if 
necessary,  and  then  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  each  pod  into  longi- 
tudinal strips  as  thin  as  a  shaving.  Put  into  boiling  water,  add 
a  teaspoonful  salt  and  boil  furiously  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
When  cooked  tender  drain  and  add  a  half-cup  of  cream,  half  tea- 
spoonful salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Boil  up  once  and  serve  hot. 
The  beans  are  enough  nicer  prepared  this  way  to  pay  for  the 
extra  work  of  splitting  them. 

Strawberry  Tapioca  with  Sauce — Soak  over  night  a  teacupful 
of  tapioca  in  cold  water;    in  the  morning  put  half  of  it  in  a  bak- 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  251 

ing-dish.  Sprinkle  half  a  cup  of  sugar  over  the  tapioca,  put  on 
this  a  quart  of  berries  (reserving  twelve  for  the  sauce),  half-cup 
of  sugar  and  the  rest  of  the  tapioca.  Fill  the  dish  with  water, 
which  should  cover  the  tapioca  a  quarter  of  an  inch.  Bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  until  it  looks  clear.    Serve  cold  with — 

Strawberry  Sauce — Beat  two  ounces  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add- 
ing gradually  a  half-cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  then  add  twelve 
large  strawberries,  mash  and  beat  till  light. 

Shirley  de  Forest. 

Box  596,  Janesville,  Wis. 


FRIDAY,  JUNE  THE  FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  cherries. 

Bacon  on  toast.  Red  radishes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cracknels.  Cottage  cheese. 

Strawberry  pyramid. 

Russian  tea. 


DINNER. 

Bran  soup. 

Broiled  shad.  Lettuce  salad. 

Stewed  peas. 

Tutti  frutti.  Thumb  cake. 


Bacon  on  Toast — Slice  breakfast  bacon  very  thin,  put  each 
slice  on  a  square  of  stale  light  bread,  place  in  a  baking-pan  and 
into  a  hot  oven,  first  on  the  bottom  to  brown  the  under  side  of 
the  bread,  and  then  on  the  grate  above  to  toast  the  bacon  and 
upper  side  of  the  bread.  Serve  as  soon  as  brown.  Very  appe- 
tizing if  carefully  done. 

Cracknels — Warm  two  cups  of  milk — half  water  will  do — add 
four  tablespoons  of  butter  or  lard,  or  a  mixture  of  the  two,  one 
gill  of  yeast,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  into  dough  with  suffi- 
cient flour  for  milk  to  wet,  let  rise  and  then  roll  very  thin,  and 
cut  into  long  strips  three  inches  wide,  prick  well  with  a  fork  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Strawberry  Pyramid — Cook  a  pint  of  rice;  place  a  layer  of  it, 
well  seasoned  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  half-teaspoon  of 
salt,  on  a  pretty  plate,  decorated  on  the  edge,  if  possible,  with 
small  strawberry  leaves.  Cover  the  rice  with  strawberries, 
sprinkled  lightly  with  sugar,  then  a  layer  of  the  rice,  and  so  on, 
forming  the  pile  into  the  shape  of  a  pyramid.  Finish  the  top 
with  a  spray  of  the  berries. 


252  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Russian  Tea — Fill  each  glass  half  full  of  cracked  ice,  add 
a  slice  of  lemon  and  two  cubes  of  white  sugar.  Fill  up  with 
cold  tea. 

Bran  Soup — This  summer  soup  is  made  without  meat  by  boil- 
ing one  cup  of  bran  in  six  cups  of  water  slowly  for 
three  hours.  Strain  this  stock  and  to  one  quart  of  it  add  one 
sliced  onion  and  three  tablespoons  of  rice,  one  teaspoon  of  salt, 
and  just  before  serving,  a  saltspoon  of  celery  salt,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon of  white  pepper,  one  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley.  This  in- 
expensive soup  contains  much  of  the  nutritive  properties  of  meat. 
It  may  be  varied  by  adding  tomatoes,  potatoes  or  other  vegeta- 
bles instead  of  rice. 

Broiled  Shad — Split  the  fish  down  the  back  and  lay  on  a  flat 
dish  for  an  hour  in  a  marionade  of  one  tablespoon  of  oil  and  one 
of  vinegar,  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  half  one  of  white  pepper. 
Rub  the  bars  of  a  double  gridiron  with  beef  suet,  lay  on  the  fish 
and  broil  over  a  clear,  slow  fire,  putting  inside  to  the  fire  first. 
When  done  remove  to  a  hot  dish  and  dress  with  a  tablespoon  of 
butter,  one  of  lemon  juice  and  one  of  finely  minced  parsley. 

Tutti  Frutti — Two  oranges  sliced,  two  sliced  bananas  and  one 
box  of  strawberries  arranged  in  layers  and  sprinkled  with  half  a 
cup  of  sugar. 

Thumb  Cake — One  cup  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  the  thumb, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  water,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder  in  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoon 
of  grated  nutmeg.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Frank  E.  Drury. 

Box  24,  Orleans,  111. 


SATURDAY,  JUNE  THE  FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries. 

Scrambled  eggs  with  asparagus  tips 

Potatoes  Chateaubriand. 

Buttered  toast.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Creamed  tomatoes  on  toast.  Fish  salad. 

Cucumber  vinaigrette. 

Apple  cake 


DINNER. 

Puree  clamart. 

Hamburg  steak.  Creole  sauce. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Spaghetti,  Italian  style. 

Strawberry  pie.  Coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  253 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Asparagus  Tips — Beat  six  eggs  light 
with  two  tablespoons  of  cream,  scramble  in  butter,  and  when 
set,  sprinkle  w^ith  a  small  half-teaspoonful  of  salt;  stir  in  lightly 
the  tender  portion  of  one  bunch  of  asparagus,  cut  in  inch  lengths, 
add  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  dish  on  toast. 

Potatoes  Chateaubriand — Peel  one  quart  new  potatoes  size  of 
walnuts,  quite  round;  cook  in  covered  vessel  with  three  ounces 
butter  till  done  (about  twenty  minutes).  Shake  occasionally  to 
prevent  sticking;  sprinkle  with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
chopped  parsley. 

Pish  salad — Boil  one  pound  of  any  kind  of  firm  fresh  fish  (cod 
or  red  snapper  is  preferable),  cooked  in  acidulated,  salted  water, 
in  which  an  onion  has  been  sliced.  When  done  and  cold  remove 
skin  and  bones;  flake,  and  add  an  equal  quantity  of  shredded  let- 
tuce; two  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped;  two  pickled  gherkins, 
sliced;  toss  with  French  dressing  made  with  equal  quantities  of 
oil  and  vinegar;  dress  high  on  the  dish;  surround  the  base  with 
sixths  of  hard-boiled  egg  cut  lengthwise,  alternating  with  the 
slices  of  half  a  lemon;  squeeze  the  remainder  of  the  lemon  over 
and  serve. 

Cucumber  Vinaigrette — Place  thin  slices  of  cucumbers  on  a 
lettuce  leaf  in  individual  dishes,  over  each  a  tablespoonful  of 
sauce  vinaigrette — four  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  two  of  vinegar  and 
two  of  minced  pickles;  one  large  or  two  medium-sized  green 
onions,  chopped  fine;  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  two  of  mustard,  and 
one-half  spoonful  white  pepper;    mix  thoroughly. 

Puree  Clamart — Take  the  unused  part  of  asparagus  left  from 
breakfast,  one  can  marrowfat  peas,  one  small  onion,  two  potatoes 
and  pint  of  water;  boil  slowly  until  all  ingredients  are  quite  done 
(nearly  an  hour),  then  rub  through  a  sieve  or  fine  strainer.  If 
too  thick,  dilute  with  milk;  season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt 
and  a  half  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Stir  in  two  ounces  butter  and 
three  egg  yolks;  do  not  let  it  boil  after  adding  eggs.  Serve  with 
one  cup  of  small  cubes  of  bread  dried  in  the  oven. 

Creole  Sauce — Cook  the  steaks  to  taste,  pour  over  the  follow- 
ing: Fry  until  a  light  yellow  color  in  one  ounce  butter,  one  clove 
of  garlic,  two  medium-sized  onions,  minced,  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  minced  ham;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  cook  one 
minute  longer;  then  add  half-can  tomatoes  (retaining  the  more 
solid  portion),  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  sugar, 
a  little  cayenne  or  a  small  red  pepper  pod,  minced,  one-third  cup 
vinegar;  cook  fifteen  minutes  and  garnish  with  twenty  small  po- 
tatoes Chateaubriand  left  from  breakfast. 

Spaghetti,  Italian  Style — Boil  half-pound  spaghetti  twenty 
minutes  in  salted  water;  cool  and  drain;  make  pint  and  half  of 
tomato  sauce  with  the  balance  of  the  can  previously  used,  using 
two  cloves'  of  garlic  and  one  onion,  minced.  Pour  over  the  spa- 
ghetti;, add  one  ounce  of  fat  salt  pork,  minced  or  scraped  and 
partially  fried;  third  of  cup  of  grated  cheese;  cover  closely  and 
cook  very  slowly  for  almost  an  hour. 

Strawberry  Pie — Line  a  pie-plate  with  short  biscuit  dough; 


254  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

prick  the  bottom  to  let  out  the  air,  and  bake.  When  cold  fill  with 
fresh  ripe  strawberries,  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar,  and 
spread  over  a  meringue  made  with  the  three  whites  remaining 
from  the  soup,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar;  put 
in  the  oven  just  long  enough  to  set  the  meringue. 

Mrs.  Imogene  Thurston. 
No.  110  W.  Van  Buren  Street,  Chicago. 


SUNDAY,  JUNE  THE  SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Pieplant  sauce. 

Minced  meat  on  toast. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes,  fried  whole. 

Wheat  griddle  cakes,  sirup. " 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Soyer's  eggs.  Saratoga  chips. 

Cold  asparagus  salad. 

Cherries,  Warren  gingerbread. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Vegetable  soup. 

Stuffed  veal,  gravy. 

Cauliflower  with  dressing.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Strawberry  sherbet. 

Coffee. 


Pieplant  Sauce — In  cooking  pieplant  do  not  strip  off  the  pink 
skin,  as  it  gives  flavor  and  color  to  the  sauce.  Cook  slowly,  sugar 
to  taste,  and  just  before  removing  from  the  stove  add  three  or 
four  thin  slices  of  lemon  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter. 

Minced  Meat  on  Toast — One  pint  of  finely  minced  meats,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  one  small  cup 
of  soup-stock  or  water,  two-thirds  of  a  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half 
saltspoonful  pepper,  one-third  saltspoonful  nutmeg,  one-third 
saltspoonful  ginger.  Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  when 
melted  and  slightly  browned  add  flour.  Stir  to  a  smooth  paste, 
adding  stock  (or  water)  and  seasoning.  Lastly  add  the  meat,  al- 
lowing it  to  cook  slowly  for  about  ten  minutes.  Serve  on  slices 
of  crisp  toast,  with  a  soft-poached  egg  on  each  slice.  Any  cold 
meat  will  do  for  the  above;  if  veal,  add  a  little  lemon  peel  to  sea- 
soning; if  pork,  add  a  little  powdered  sage.  Baker's  bread  is 
best  for  toast  and  should  be  toasted  very  slowly,  so  it  may  be 


THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  255 

dried  through  and  through  while  taking  on  a  golden  brown 
color  outside. 

Cold  Boiled  Potatoes  Pried  Whole — Cold  potatoes  (boiled) 
fried  whole  in  beef  drippings  or  suet  fat  (buy  that  around  the 
kidneys  and  try  it  out  like  lard)  are  quite  as  nice  as  the  "browned 
potatoes"  cooked  in  the  pan  with  roast  beef. 

Wheat  Griddle  Cakes,  Sirup — There  is  a  special  art  in  making 
good  griddle  cakes,  and  once  learned  people  need  never  have  poor 
ones.  The  following  is  a  never-failing  recipe:  One  and  one-half 
pints  of  milk,  two  coffeecups  of  sifted  flour,  three  eggs,  one-half 
teaspoonful  salt,  two  rather  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well  and  add  to  them  the  milk,  mixing 
together  thoroughly.  Put  the  flour  in  a  bowl  and  pour  on  part  of 
the  milk.  Now  beat  this  thick  batter  briskly  for  three  or  four 
minutes  (to  aerate  it),  put  the  baking  powder  in  the  remaining 
milk,  mix  and  add  to  the  batter,  and  lastly  add  the  beaten  whites 
of  eggs.  This  batter  will  answer  equally  well  for  waffles.  The 
thinner  the  batter  the  more  delicate  the  cake  or  waffle. 

Soyer's  Eggs — Slice  two  or  three  large  onions  very  thin  and 
fry  till  a  nice  brown.  Have  ready  five  or  six  hard-boiled  eggs 
(boiled  thirty  minutes  they  are  perfectly  digestible),  cut  in  slices, 
and  a  half-bowl  of  good  gravy.  Add  first  the  gravy,  then  the 
eggs,  stirring  gently  to  blend  (do  not  break  the  eggs),  cook  a  min- 
ute or  two  and  serve  very  hot.  Season  the  onions  with  pepper 
and  salt. 

Cold  Asparagus  Salad — Left  over  from  dinner,  makes  a  de- 
licious salad  for  luncheon  with  ordinary  French  dressing;  or, 
better  still,  a  little  mayonnaise. 

Warren  Gingerbread — Good  gingerbread  can  only  be  made  of 
the  dark  New  Orleans  or  Porto  Rico  molasses.  The  following  is 
a  Dixie  recipe  and  infallible:  One-half  cup  butter,  warmed  till 
soft;  one  and  one-half  cups  molasses,  three-fourths  cup  boiling 
water,  three  level  cups  sifted  flour,  one  slightly  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda,  one  and  one-half  heaping  teaspoonfuls  ginger,  one 
and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  one  saltspoonful  cloves,  one 
saltspoonful  nutmeg  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Put  molasses  in  one 
bowl  and  add  melted  butter,  spices  and  soda.  When  thoroughly 
mixed  together  add  the  boiling  water,  then  the  flour,  beating  un- 
til all  lumps  are  gone.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  As  anything 
made  with  molasses  burns  easily,  the  pan  must  be  lined  with  thick 
double  paper,  or,  the  easiest  method  is  to  use  two  pans,  the  same 
size,  putting  one  inside  the  other. 

Stuffed  Veal — Get  the  shoulder  and  have  the  bone  removed, 
leaving  a  "pocket"  for  the  stuffing.  Make  the  stuffing  of  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  dry  bread  crumbs  moistened  with  a  few  teaspoon- 
fuls of  milk  and  two  of  melted  butter.  Season  with  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  two  dashes  of  pepper,  a  little  sage  and  the  grated 
rind  of  one-fourth  of  a  lemon.  Now  put  the  stuffing  in  the  pocket 
and  sew  or  tie  up  securely.  Rub  the  meat  over  with  lemon, 
dredge  well  with  flour,  into  which  a  little  seasoning  of  salt,  pep- 
per and  a  little  ginger  has  been  sprinkled.     Put  the  roast  into 


256  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

a  good  hot  oven,  and  leave  it  uncovered  until  the  flour  is  a  light 
brown  (there  must  be  flour  also  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan),  and 
then  pour  over  it  nearly  a  pint  of  boiling  soup  stock  or  hot  water. 
Cover  closely  and  cook  more  slowly  for  two  hours — basting  fre- 
quently and  renewing  the  water  if  necessary.  When  the  roast  is 
removed,  there  will  be  good  material  in  the  pan  for  a  nice 
brown  gravy.  If  necessary,  add  more  flour,  let  it  brown  (on 
top  of  the  stove),  and  add  water  or  stock,  salt  and  pepper.  Strain 
and  serve.  Any  veal  left  over,  with  the  dressing,  will  make 
excellent  croquettes. 

Cauliflower  with  Dressing — Nearly  all  cook  books  give  "twen- 
ty minutes"  as  the  proper  time  for  cooking  cauliflower.  Cooked 
a  full  hour  it  is  a  different  vegetable,  and  tried  once  you  will 
never  cook  it  a  shorter  time.  Tie  it  in  a  clean  white  cloth.  Put 
it  on  in  cold  salted  water  (stem  up)  in  a  graniteware  or  porce- 
lain-lined saucepan — never  in  iron  or  tin.  When  done  place 
it  (flowers  up)  in  a  hot  platter  and  pour  over  it  the  following 
sauce:  Rub  together  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  flour  to  a 
smooth  paste,  add  gradually  a  cup  and  a  half  of  the  water 
in  which  the  cauliflower  was  boiled.  Let  this  boil  for  two  or  three 
minutes,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  just  before  serv- 
ing add  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  mixed  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  cold  water  to  prevent  curdling.  This  is  also  the  best  sauce 
for  asparagus,  using  the  water  in  which  the  vegetable  is  boiled. 

Mashed  Potatoes — The  "greenest"  girl  will  be  indignant  if  her 
ability  to  prepare  a  dish  of  mashed  potatoes  is  questioned,  while, 
in  truth,  very  few  trained  cooks  make  the  dish  to  perfection. 
First  put  on  the  potatoes  in  cold,  salted  water,  and  cook  till  done, 
drain,  and  return  to  stove  to  dry.  Next  put  them  through  a  "po- 
tato press"  (they  only  cost  15  cents),  and  you  are  then  ready 
to  make  really  fine  mashed  potatoes.  For  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
potatoes  put  on  a  tumbler  of  milk  to  heat,  adding  salt  and  a  lump 
of  butter.  Before  the  boiling  point  is  reached  pour  over  the  po- 
tatoes and  beat  hard  for  two  or  three  minutes.  They  will  be 
white  as  snow,  and  will  melt  in  your  mouth,  literally. 

Strawberry  Sherbet — Every  family  can  have  sherbets  as  often 
as  they  wish  during  the  warm  months.  They  are  cheap,  whole- 
some, not  troublesome  to  make  and  delicious.  For  strawberry 
sherbet  get  two  quarts  of  berries — the  small,  cheaper  ones  are 
just  as  good  for  the  purpose  as  larger  ones,  if  sound.  When 
culled  and  washed  sprinkle  with  sugar,  about  a  coffeecupful.  Put 
them  over  a  very  slow  heat  (use  a  graniteware  vessel),  let- 
ting them  come  very  gradually  to  a  boil.  When  you  think  all 
the  juice  has  been  set  free  drain  through  a  jelly  bag;  there  should 
be  nearly  a  quart  of  juice,  to  which  add  nearly  a  pint  of  water 
and  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Put  in  your  freezer  and 
freeze,  which  process  should  take  not  more  than  fifteen  or  twen- 
ty minutes.  In  freezing  sherbets  or  ice  cream  use  one-third 
salt  to  two-thirds  ice.  The  easiest  way  to  break  the  ice  is  to  put 
it  In  a  coarse  bag  and  pound  with  the  broad  part  of  a  heavy  flat- 
iron  or  the  flat  of  a  hatchet.    When  your  sherbet  is  frozen  take 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  257 

out  the  paddle,  put  a  cork  in  the  top  of  the  freezer,  drain  most 
of  the  water  from  the  pall,  cover  with  more  ice  and  salt,  press  it 
down  with  a  stick  and  let  stand  till  ready  to  use.  All  fruits  nearly 
are  good  for  sherbets,  and  in  the  autumn  grape  juice  is  excellent 
for  the  purpose — indeed,  many  think  it  best  of  all. 

Mrs.  Eleanor  Morris. 
583  LaSalle  Avenue,  Chicago. 


MONDAY,  JUNE  THE  SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries   and   cream. 

Codfish   balls.  Boston  brown   bread. 

Toast.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Veal  roll. 

Thin  bread  and  butter.  Orange  fritters. 

Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Mock  oyster  soup.  Crackers. 

Tongue.  Piquant  sauce. 

Stuffed  tomatoes.  Spinach. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Strawberry  sherbet. 

Tea. 


Veal  Roll — Have  one  large  veal  cutlet  cut  as  evenly  as  pos- 
sible, so  it  may  be  evenly  thick  at  all  parts;  sprinkle  with  finely 
cut  parsley,  then  with  a  layer  of  finely  chopped  almonds  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  roll  and  tie  so  it  v/ill  keep  in  shape.  Put 
in  a  stewing  pan  one  sliced  onion,  a  sliced  carrot  and  two  bay 
leaves;  steam  for  one  hour  and  a  half;  stand  away  to  cool,  then 
slice.    This  may  be  prepared  the  day  you  wish  to  use  it. 

Tongue — Simmer  slowly  in  slightly  salted  water  a  fresh  beef's 
tongue  two  hours  and  a  half  until  tender,  then  take  off  both 
skin  and  roots.  Serve  'whole  or  sliced,  with  piquant  sauce.  Gar- 
nish tongue  with  lemon  slices. 

Miss  ^.  A.  Bradford. 

No.  929  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York, 


17 


258  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

TUESDAY,  JUNE  THE  EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Farinose  and  milk. 

"Watercress  and  sliced  tomatoes. 

Poached  eggs  on  toast.  Graham  gems. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Fried  whitefish.  Sliced  cucumbers. 

Buttermilk  scones. 

Strawberries  and  cream. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Carrot  cream  soup. 

Breast  of  mutton  and  tomato. 

String  beans,  parsley  sauce.       Potatoes. 

Iced  pineapple. 

Cheese.       After-dinner  coffee. 


Poached  Eggs  on  Toast — Cut  slices  of  bread  one-fourth  inch 
thick,  toast  a  nice  brown,  cut  off  the  crust,  butter  liberally.  Break 
the  eggs  (one  at  a  time  on  a  saucer)  and  slip  into  a  frying-pan 
of  boiling  water,  into  which  has  been  previously  put  half  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  two  dessertspoonfuls  of  vinegar,  which  will 
keep  the  eggs  nice  and  firm;  drain  the  eggs  and  put  on  the  toast. 
Serve  hot. 

Put  the  crust  from  the  toast  into  the  oven  to  dry  crisp,  then 
roll  with  pastry  roller  and  use  for  fried  fish  at  luncheon. 

Fried  Whitefish — Cut  in  slices  one  inch  thick  (across  the 
fish),  season  each  slice  with  a  saltspoon  of  salt  and  a  quarter 
saltspoon  of  pepper;  whip  an  egg  on  a  plate,  dip  the  fish  in  the 
egg,  then  in  the  dried  bread  crumbs;  fry  in  boiling  drippings 
or  oil. 

Buttermilk  Scones — One  pound  sifted  flour,  saltspoon  of  salt, 
three  ounces  of  butter  rubbed  into  the  flour,  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder.  Mix  the  whole  into  a  light  paste  with  but- 
termilk, roll  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  three-cornered 
pieces  and  bake  a  nice  brown.  These  are  delicious  cut  open  and 
toasted  for  breakfast. 

Carrot  Cream  Soup — Wash,  scrape  and  cut  in  slices  enough 
carrots  to  fill  a  piHt  bowl;  boil  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water  slightly 
salted  till  soft  enough  to  rub  through  a  sieve  with  the  potato- 
masher.  Mix  together  in  a  thick  saucepan  two  tablespoonfuls 
each  of  flour  and  butter,  stirring  with  wooden  spoon  till  they  be- 
gin to  bubble  together.    Gradually  stir  into  this  a  quart  of  hot 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  259 

milk  and  the  carrot  pulp;  add  hot  water  to  make  two  quarts  of 
soup.    Add  a  small  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  caj^enne  pepper. 

Breast  of  Mutton  and  Tomato— Bone  the  mutton,  roll  and 
tie  it,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  the  bones,  brov/n  all  over  a  hot 
fire;  dredge  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  over  them  and  brov^m  that. 
Put  with  the  mutton  a  quart  of  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes  peeled 
or  sliced.  Season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper;  cook  slov/ly  for 
an  hour;  remove  the  bones  and  the  string  from  the  mutton  and 
serve  with  the  sauce. 

String  Beans,  Parsley  Sauce — String  a  quart  of  beans;  cut 
thin  lengthwise  of  the  bean.  Into  three  quarts  of  boiling  water 
put  small  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  boil  the  beans  in  this  for  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Mince  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  nice  curled  pars- 
ley very  fine.  Put  a  pint  of  milk  and  water  (equal  parts)  into 
a  thick  pan;  when  boiling  stir  in  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  made 
into  a  batter  with  cold  milk;  stir  till  it  just  comes  to  a  boil,  add 
pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  and  saltspoon  of  salt,  stir  in  the  minced 
parsley,  and  serve  with  the  beans.  Just  before  serving  add  a 
teaspoon  of  butter  to  the  sauce. 

Iced  Pineapple — Peel  a  nice  pineapple;  hold  it  by  the  crown 
and  grate  it,  using  a  grater  with  unbroken  surface  and  a  dish 
large  enough  to  receive  all  the  juice.  Put  the  grated  pineapple 
in  a  glass  dish,  dust  it  well  with  powdered  sugar;  keep  on  ice 
for  an  hour.  Mrs.  W.  Birchby. 

Holland,  Mich. 


WEDNESDAY,   JUNE  THE   NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

White  cherries  iced. 

Mixed  croquettes.      Sliced  tomatoes. 

Corn  muffins.  Honey. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  tongue,  rhubarb  jelly.     . 
Stuffed  eggs. 
Beaten    biscuit. 
Iced  tea. 

DINNER. 

White  soup. 

Boiled  trout,  cream  sauce.     Iced  cucumbers. 

Peas  in  cream  dressing. 

Biscuit. 

Ehubarb  custard. 

Coffee, 


260  THE   CHICAGO    RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

Mixed  Croquettes — Take  bits  of  cold  meats  of  any  kind, 
steaks,  roasts  and  hams,  and  v/ith  scissors  cut  into  very  small 
pieces' enough  to  fill  a  pint  cup;  sprinkle  it  with  salt,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  celery  seed,  some  black  pepper,  two  cold  mashed  po- 
tatoes, and  a  third  of  a  cup  of  milk.  Grate  enough  cold  bread  to 
fill  a  large  cup,  and  beat  an  egg  thoroughly.  Mix  the  meat  with 
the  hands,  form  into  balls,  roll  in  the  egg,  then  in  the  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  an  even  brown  in  hot  lard.  Lay  on  green  leaves 
and  serve  hot. 

Cold  Tongue,  Rhubarb  Jelly — On  each  piece  of  sliced  tongue 
put  a  spoonful  of  rhubarb  jelly  made  as  follows:  Cut  up  and  wash 
the  rhubarb  and  put  on  to  boil  with  a  little  water.  Let  boil  brisk- 
ly, take  off  and  strain  through  flannel  bag,  measure  and  put  back 
to  boil.  Allow  it  to  boil  low,  then  add  three-fourths  as  much 
sugar  as  juice.  Boil  hard  for  a  few  minutes,  then  turn  into  glass- 
es and  put  in  the  sun.    It  should  be  a  golden  yellow. 

White  Soup — Quart  of  sv/eet  milk,  pint  of  cold  water,  large 
tablespoon  of  butter;  two  mashed  potatoes,  a  small  onion,  two 
tablespoons  tapioca.  Let  all  boil  before  adding  tapioca,  which 
should  be  soaked  in  a  little  milk,  then  boil  all  together,  adding 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  pepper;  a 
Quarter-teaspoonful  of  celery  seed  and  one  beaten  egg  added  make 
a  richer  soup. 

Peas  in  Cream  Dressing — Put  one  pint  of  peas  in  three  cups  of 
boiling  water  with  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  and  boil  until  tender. 
Pour  off  nearly  all  the  water,  sprinkle  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
add  a  cup  of  cream,  tablespoon  of  butter  and  let  all  boil  up. 
Sprinkle  well  with  pepper. 

Rhubarb  Custard — Make  a  custard  as  for  custard  pies,  using 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  sugar  to  taste.  Line 
a  deep  pudding  dish  with  a  light  crust  and  place  in  it  a  layer  of 
chopped  rhubarb  covered  with  sugar.  Pour  over  this  the  cus- 
tard and  bake.  Beat  the  whites,  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice, 
spread  over  the  pie  when  done,  and  set  in  oven  to  brown. 

McBrayer,  Ky.  Fannie  Lisbeth  Carr. 


THURSDAY,  JUNE  THE  TENl^H. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 

Cerealine  flakes. 

Scrambled  eggs.      Cream  toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cottage-cheese  sandwiches. 

Hominy  and  meat  croquettes. 

Lemon  sherbet.  Angels'  food, 

Iced  tea, 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  261 

DINNER. 

Puree  of  asparagus. 

Terrapin  veal. 

Mashed  potatoes.       Green  peas. 

Strav/berry  sponge. 

After-dinner   coffee. 


Scrambled  Eggs — Break  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  small  sauce- 
pan; add  to  them  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  eight  tabie- 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  stock,  one  small,  level 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper;  stir  the 
whole  until  the  eggs  begin  to  thicken,  then  take  from  the  fire 
and  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  beat  them  until  they  are  light  and 
delicate,  then  return  the  saucepan  to  the  fire  and  as  soon  as  the 
eggs  are  hot  pour  them  into  a  warm  dish  and  serve  at  once.  These 
are  delicious  if  carefully  made. 

Cream  Toast — Put  in  the  double  boiler  one  quart  of  milk,  then 
cut  even  slices  of  stale  bread  and  toast  them  a  nice  brown  on 
each  side.  Dip  each  toasted  slice  into  the  hot  milk  a  moment, 
then  place  it  in  the  serving  dish.  When  all  are  done  add  half  a 
pint  of  milk  to  the  hot  milk,  put  in  a  large  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter and  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  the  yolk 
of  one  egg,  add  to  it  one  small  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cold  milk.  Mix  together  until  smooth  and  stir 
it  into  the  boiling  milk.  Let  it  boil  until  it  is  creamy,  stirring  it 
all  the  while.  Then  put  it  into  the  dish  with  the  toast,  lifting  up 
the  slices  carefully  so  the  cream  will  be  at  the  bottom  of  the 
dish  and  all  around  the  toast.  Fill  the  dish  nearly  full  of  the 
cream,  and  if  there  is  any  left  put  that  in  a  bowl,  and  send  all  to 
the  table  very  hot. 

Cottage-Cheese  Sandwiches — Take  nice  white  bread  and  pre- 
pare it  as  for  any  sandwich,  butter  smoothly,  then  spread  v/ith  a 
seasoned  layer  of  cottage  cheese  through  which  small  bits  of  the 
spicy  watercress  are  plentifully  scattered;  place  another  buttered 
slice  on  top,  cut  them  in  strips  or  any  shape  desired.  Arrange  on 
a  nice  plate  on  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

Hominy  and  Meat  Croquettes — Boil  the  hominy  the  day  be- 
fore; make  the  croquettes  in  the  morning.  Put  half  a  cupful  of 
milk  into  a  saucepan;  when  boiling  hot  stir  into  it  two  large 
tablespoons  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  boiled  hominy,  one  cupful 
of  finely  chopped  meat,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  saltspoon 
of  pepper.  Mix  ail  thoroughly;  when  it  begins  to  boil  add  one 
well-beaten  egg,  cook  two  minutes  and  pour  the  mixture  out  to 
cool.  When  cold  form  into  small  cylinder  croquettes,  dip  in 
egg,  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  place  them  on  a  board  sprinkled 
over  with  crumbs  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to-  fry. 
Then  carefully  place  them  in  a  frying  basket,  being  careful  not  to 
crowd  them;  fry  a  light  brown  and  serve  very  hot. 

Lemon  Sherbet — Take  one  teaspoonful  of  gelatine,  soak  it 
one  hour  in  enough  cold  \yater  to  cover  it,  then  add  one  cupful  of 


262  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

boiling  hot  water  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Tlie  juice  of  six  lemons, 
one  good  pint  of  granulated  sugar  and  one  quart  of  cold  water. 
Mix  together  the  sugar,  lemon  juice,  water  and  gelatine;  strain  it 
into  the  can  and  freeze. 

Terrapin  Veal— Two  pounds  of  veal  cut  into  small  pieces,  two 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter  and  half  a  tablespoon  of  grated 
onion.  Cook  slowly  five  minutes,  then  add  the  meat  and  cook  un- 
til it  browns,  stirring  often.  Thicken  with  one  heaping  table- 
spoon of  flour  and  add  slowly  a  cup  of  hot  stock,  one  tablespoon 
of  mushroom  catchup,  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  saltspoon  oi 
pepper;  simmer  two  hours.  Then  add  one  cup  of  cream,  three 
hard-boiled  eggs  chopped   fine  and   a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice. 

Serve  hot. 

Strawberry  Sponge — One  quart  of  berries,  one-half  box  of  gel- 
atine, one  and  one-half  cups  water,  one  cup  sugar,  juice  of  one 
lemon,  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.  Soak  gelatine  in  one-half 
cup  of  the  water;  mash  the  berries  and  add  the  sugar  to  them; 
boil  the  remainder  of  sugar  and  the  cup  of  water  gently  twenty 
minutes;  rub  berries  through  a  hair  sieve;  add  gelatine  to  boil- 
ing sirup;  take  from  the  fire  and  add  berry  juice;  place  bowl 
in  pan  of  ice  v/ater  and  beat  v/ith  egg  beater  five  min- 
utes; add  beaten  whites  and  beat  till  it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour 
into  iwell-wet  molds  and  set  on  ice. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  McGowan. 

Farmington,  111. 


FRIDAY,  JUNE  THE  ELEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries. 

Breakfast  food,  cream  and  sugar. 

Whipped  eggs.  Muffins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Peas  in  cases.  Cheese  sandwiches. 

Rice,  with  strav/berry  dressing. 

Lady  fingers.      Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  peas  soup. 

Baked  halibut  steaks,  cucumber  salad.     New  potatoes. 

Pineapple.        Sunshine  cake. 

Coffee. 


Strawberries— Dip  the   strawberries  in  foudant    (the  melted 
sugar  used  by  confectioners)  or  in  the  beaten  white  of  egg  and 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  263 

then  in  powdered  sugar.  These  snowy  balls  are  then  arranged 
in  a  glass  dish  and  decorated  with  strawberry  leaves. 

Whipped  Eggs — Beat  six  eggs  till  light  and  pour  into  two 
quarts  of  fast-boiling  salted  water.  Stir  vigorously  for  two  min- 
utes, drain  in  a  fine  sieve,  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter  and  gar- 
nish with  crisp  bacon.  This  may  also  be  served  on  buttered 
toast. 

Peas  in  Cases — New  peas  may  be  daintily  served  in  cases 
made  of  mashed  potatoes.  Mash  the  potatoes  nicely,  stiffen  the 
mass  by  adding  flour,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bake  it 
in  fluted  cake  tins,  placing  a  bit  of  bread  in  the  center  of  each 
to  keep  the  cases  in  shape  and  removing  it  as  soon  as  all  the  shell 
is  baked.  Then  prepare  the  peas  in  the  following  manner:  Cook 
a  pint  of  shelled  peas  in  just  as  much  water  as  will  keep  them 
from  burning.  Do  not  cover  the  kettle  while  cooking  any  green 
vegetable,  as  the  confined  steam  will  always  change  the  color 
to  a  yellowish  shade  of  green.  When  the  peas  are  tender  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  into  which  has  been  rubbed  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter;  as  soon  as  the  liquor  has  been  thickened  by  this  paste 
season  with  a  saltspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper,  pour  into 
the  cases  and  serve  hot. 

Cheese  Sandwiches — Cut  brown  bread  into  very  thin  slices, 
buttering  lightly.  Lay  between  two  of  these  slices,  sandwich 
fashion,  a  filling  made  of  cream  cheese  or  cottage  cheese  in  which 
has  been  mixed  chopped  olives.  These  sandwiches  are  new  and 
delicious. 

Rice  with  Strawberry  Dressing — Pour  two  cupfuls  of  boiling 
water  on  one  cupful  of  well-washed  rice;  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt;  cook  in  double  boiler  thirty  minutes.  Add  a  pint  or  more 
of  milk  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  until  per- 
fectly tender  and  not  too  dry.  Pour  into  a  dish  and  let  stand 
until  cold.  Dressing:  One  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter;  beat  to  a  cream;  one  cupful  fresh,  ripe  straw- 
berries. Put  in  the  last  the  well-beaten  white  of  an  egg.  In  serv- 
ing put  into  each  saucer  some  rice  and  on  the  rice  place  a  liberal 
portion  of  the  dressing.    Delicious. 

Lady  Fingers — Two  eggs,  one-half  cupful  flour,  scant  half 
cupful  of  powdered  sugar.  Have  the  bottom  of  two  baking  pans 
lined  with  buttered  paper.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the 
sugar  to  a  froth.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth  and  add 
to  the  yolks  and  sugar;  flavor  with  a  few  drops  of  vanilla;  add  the 
flour  and  mix  carefully  and  quickly.  Pour  the  mixture  into  the 
pastry  bag  and  press  it  through  on  the  paper  any  size  you  wish. 
Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  and  bake  sixteen  minutes  in  a  slow 
oven. 

Baked  Halibut  Steaks — Trim  the  stakes,  lay  them  in  a  roast- 
ing-pan,  and  for  two  pounds  use  one  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  teaspoon 
of  salt,  and  a  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Dredge  the  steaks  with 
the  flour.  Add  the  seasoning  and  dot  with  the  butter;  then 
pour  over  the  cream,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven; 


264  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  with  lemon.  These  are  delicious. 
Fresh  cod  may  be  treated  in  the  same  way,  and  if  any  is  left  it 
will  make  an  excellent  scallop. 

New  Potatoes — Wash  and  scrub  well,  but  do  not  peel.  Put 
into  boiling  salted  water,  enough  to  cover  two  inches,  and  cook 
rapidly  for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Pour  off  all  the  water,  and 
if  the  potatoes  are  not  quite  tender  set  them  in  a  hot  place,  cov- 
ered, to  steam  until  they  are.  When  they  are  done  sprinkle 
with  salt,  shake  them  till  the  skins  crack,  and  serve  in  a  folded 
napkin.  The  attractive  appearance  of  a  dish  predisposes  one  to 
like  its  contents. 

Sunshine  Cake — Eleven  whites  of  eggs,  six  yolks  of  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  one  and  one-half  cups  sifted  granu- 
lated sugar,  one  cup  flour,  the  grated  peel  of  one  orange.  Beat 
whites  till  stiff  and  flaky,  then  whisk  in  one-half  the  sugar;  beat 
the  yolks  very  light  and  add  flavoring  and  the  other  half  of  the 
sugar;  put  yolks  and  whites  together  and  add  flour  and  cream  of 
tartar,  mixing  as  quickly  as  possible.  Bake  fifty  to  sixty  min- 
utes in  a  slow  oven,  using  angel-cake  pan. 

Mrs.  W.  P.  McAfee. 

No.  703  East  Kent  Street,  Streator,  111. 


SATURDAY,  JUNE  THE  TWELFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  cherries. 

Rice,  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Ham  balls.  Radishes. 

Breakfast  rolls. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Brown  bread  and  butter. 

Egg  salad. 

Strawberry  shortcake. 

Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  asparagus  soup. 

Mutton  chops,  with  tomato  sauce. 

Potato  souffle. 

Young  onions. 

Banana  pudding. 


Stewed  Cherries— Add  one  quart  of  washed  and  stemmed  cher- 
ries to  a  sirup  made  of  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of 
water.    Boil  five  minutes. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  265 

Rice — After  thoroughly  washing  and  rubbing  one  cup  of  rice 
put  it  into  boiling  water,  enough  to  cover  it  twice  over,  in  a  cus- 
tard kettle;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  cook  for  fifteen  min- 
utes, then  pour  off  water,  add  half  a  cup  of  rich  milk  and  allow 
it  to  cook  half  an  hour  longer. 

Ham  Balls — Chop  fine  pieces  of  cold  cooked  ham.  Add  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  stale  bread  crumbs  to  one-half  cup  of  milk, 
stir  and  cook  until  thick,  add  yolks  of  two  eggs,  take  from  the 
fire  and  add  one  cup  of  chopped  ham,  one-half  saltspoon  of  pepper 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley;  mix  and  stand  away  to 
cool  (may  be  prepared  the  day  before).  When  cold  form  into 
balls,  dip  into  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  then  in  bread  crumbs 
and  fry  in  smoking-hot  fat.  Serve  very  hot  and  garnished  with 
sprigs  of  parsley. 

Breakfast  Rolls — Two  quarts  of  sifted  fiour,  one  pint  of  milk, 
two  tablespoonfuls  butter  or  lard,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful salt,  half  a  cake  compressed  yeast.  Put  the  fiour  into  a 
bread  pan,  pour  into  it  the  milk  (which  must  be  boiled  and  then 
cooled),  add  the  butter,  salt,  sugar  and  yeast;  knead  and  let  rise 
over  night.  Cut  off  pieces  and  carefully  shape  into  rolls  the  de- 
sired size  by  rolling  between  the  hands,  but  do  not  knead  them. 
Set  in  a  warm  place  and  they  will  quickly  rise  ready  for  baking. 

Egg  Salad — Eight  hard-boiled  eggs,  four  crackers  rolled  fine, 
one-half  cup  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  each  of  mustard,  celery  seed 
and  salt,  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Separate  eggs  and  chop  fine  each  part,  heat  the  vinegar 
with  the  butter  and  pour  over  the  eggs;  then  add  crackers  and 
spices.    Mix  lightly  and  garnish  with  lettuce. 

Strawberry  Shortcake — Sift  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  pinch  of  salt  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  together  four  times,  then  rub  into  the  mixture 
one-half  cup  of  butter  and  lastly  add  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
mixing  as  quickly  and  lightly  as  possible  with  a  spoon.  Bake  in 
three  layers  in  a  very  quick  oven.  When  done  place  one  layer  on  a 
plate,  butter  well  with  good  sv/eet  butter,  cover  plentifully  with 
berries  and  sugar.  Place  layer  upon  layer,  treating  each  in  the 
same  manner,  reserving  the  finest  and  largest  berries  for  the 
top  layer,  which  should  be  dusted  over  with  pov/dered  sugar. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Tomato  Sauce — Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying 
pan;  when  melted  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  mix  and  add 
half  a  pint  of  strained  stewed  tomatoes  (canned  tomatoes  answer 
as  well  as  fresh  ones),  stir  until  it  boils,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
grated  onions,  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of 
pepper. 

Potato  Souffle — Steam  six  large  potatoes;  when  done  peel  and 
mash;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper;  beat  un- 
til very  light  and  perfectly  smooth.  Froth  the  white  of  an  egg, 
stir  it  gently  in  with  the  potatoes,  heap  on  a  dish  and  set  in  a 
quick  oven  to  brown. 


266  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

Banana  Pudding — Put  one  pint  of  milk  over  the  fire  in  a  cus- 
tard kettle.  Beat  two  eggs  with  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sugar 
Into  which  has  been  mixed  one  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch.  Stir 
this  mixture  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  when  it  thickens  remove 
from  fire  and  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Cut  stale  cake  in 
thin  slices  and  line  a  dish  with  the  slices.  Cover  the  cake  with 
banana  sliced  thin,  and  over  this  pour  a  cupful  of  the  custard. 
Then  add  another  layer  of  cake  and  banana,  and  over  all  pour 
the  remainder  of  the  custard.  Set  on  ice  and  let  get  very  cold. 
Just  before  serving  cover  with  a  cupful  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  John  Quigley. 

No.  3550  Farnam  Street,  Omaha,  Neb. 


SUNDAY,  JUNE  THE  THIRTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sugared  raspberries. 

Salt  cutlets.  Creamed  potatoes. 

Colonial  pancakes  with  maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Meat  salad  with  domestic  dressing. 

Crackers  and  rolls.  Olives. 

Cherry  tart. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Summer  soup. 

Fried  spring  chicken.        New  potatoes,  creamed. 

Green  peas.  Sliced  cucumbers. 

Frozen  pineapple  custard.  Geranium  cake. 

Coffee. 


Salt  Cutlets — Soak  six  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  in  milk  and 
water  over  night.  Roll  each  slice  in  flour  and  fry  crisp  and 
brown  in  hot  lard.  After  that,  dip  each  slice  in  beaten  egg  and 
roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  return  for  a  few  moments  to  the  hot  fat. 
A  good  relish. 

Colonial  Pancakes — All  that  is  needed  to  make  delicate  pan- 
cakes is  sour  milk,  soda,  salt  and  flour.  Into  one  pint  sour  milk 
beat  one  pint  flour  and  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Success  de- 
pends upon  the  thoroughness  with  which  this  is  done.  If  beaten 
sufficiently  the  mass  will  be  bubbling  before  the  soda  is  added. 
Just  before  baking  stir  into  the  mixture  one-half  teaspoonful  soda 
dissolved  In  one-half  cupful  sweet  milk. 


THE  CHIC  AGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.       267 

Meat  Salad  with  Domestic  Dressing — One  and  one-half  cup- 
fuls  chopped  cold  veal.  One  head  of  celery  or  one  cupful  chopped 
cabbage  or  the  solid  heart  and  stems  of  lettuce.  Use  celery  salt 
with  the  cabbage  and  lettuce.  Mix  and  pour  over  it  a  dressing 
made  as  follows:  Into  the  yelks  of  two  eggs  beat  one  teaspoon- 
ful  salt  and  one  of  mustard.  Stir  in  two-thirds  cupful  vinegar 
and  heat  to  near  boiling,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  cold  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  thick  sweet  or  sour  cream. 

Cherry  Tart — One  teacupfui  stoned  cherries.  One  cupful 
sugar.  One  tablespoonful  f.our,  and  one  egg  beaten  very  light. 
Mix  and  fill  a  pie-tin  v/hich  has  been  lined  with  crust.  Cross  nar- 
row strips  of  the  crust  over  the  top.  Excellent  recipe  for  any 
kind  of  fruit. 

Summer  Soup — One  large  onion,  one  large  carrot,  two  tur- 
nips, one-half  small  head  cabbage,  one-half  bunch  celery,  one 
teacupfui  stewed  tomatoes.  Chop  very  finely  all  the  vegetables 
except  the  tomatoes  and  cabbage  and  set  them  over  the  fire  with 
three  pints  water.  They  should  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour, 
when  the  cabbage  should  be  added,  having  previousl:/  been  par- 
boiled and  chopped.  In  fifteen  minutes  more  put  in  the  tomatoes 
and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  and  give  all  a  lively  boil  for  tv/enty 
.minutes.  Rub  through  a  colander  and  return  to  the  fire.  '  Stir 
in  a  good  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  cream  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  quar- 
ter-teaspoonful  pepper.    Let  it  boil  up  and  serve. 

Frozen  Pineapple  Custard — One  pint  of  milk  and  three  eggs. 
Beat  the  yolks  with  one  small  cup  sugar  and  stir  into  the  milk, 
then  heat  it  to  nearly  the  boiling  point,  stirring  ail  the  time. 
When  cold  add  one  cupful  sweet  cream  and  the  beaten  v/hites  of 
the  eggs.  Place  in  the  freezer  and  turn  till  almost  solid,  then 
stir  in  one  small  pineapple  which  has  been  chopped  and  had  one 
cupful  of  sugar  sifted  over  it  for  three  hours.  Every  family 
should  have  a  freezer,  for  frozen  custards  are  delicious  and  inex- 
pensive. 

Geranium  Cake — Stir  one-half  teacupfui  butter  to  a  cream 
with  one  cup  sugar;  add,  by  degrees,  two-thirds  cupful  water  and 
two  cupfuls  flour  which  have  been  sifted  with  one  teaspoonful 
baking  powder;  then  fold  in  the  stiffly-beaten  v/hites  of  four 
eggs.  Line  a  square  tin  with  oiled  paper,  over  which  place  a 
layer  of  rose-geranium  leaves.  Pour  the  cake  mixture  over  the 
leaves  and  bake.  The  result  will  be  a  delicate  flavor  difficult  to 
imitate,  and  the  leaves  pull  off  readily  without  leaving  any  trace. 

If  frosting  is  desired  make  as  follows:  Boil  one-third  teacup- 
fui water  and  one  teacupfui  sugar  ten  minutes,  or  till  it  hardens 
in  cold  water;  then  add  three  tablespoonfuls  cream  and  beat  till 
cool.  Mrs.  L.  T.  Hunter. 

Warren,  Ohio. 


268  'THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

MONPAY,  JUNE  THE  FOURTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Iced  clierries. 

Broiled  breakfast  bacon. 

Johnny  cake.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Tomato  bisque  with  croutons. 

Bread  and  butter.  Lettuce  salad. 

Cocoanut  cake.  Tea. 

DINNER. 

Roast  beef  and  Yorkshire  pudding. 

Browned  potatoes. 

Radishes.  Peas. 

Gooseberry  tart.  Coffee. 


Iced  Cherries — Wipe  the  cherries  carefully  with  a  soft  cloth. 
Place  in  ice  box  over  night.  Serve  in  a  pretty  glass  bowl  with' 
cracked  ice. 

If  the  butter  for  breakfast  and  luncheon  is  made  into  pretty 
rolls  with  butter  pats,  then  laid  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  some 
cracked  ice,  it  looks  much  more  appetizing  and  dainty.  Or  the 
butter-dish  can  be  garnished  with  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  some  ice. 

Tomato  Bisque — Put  half  a  can  of  tomatoes  in  a  pot,  add  half- 
cup  water  and  a  small  slice  of  onion.  Let  simmer  slowly  for  fif- 
teen minutes.  Press  through  a  colander,  return  to  pot;  add  a 
pinch  of  baking  soda.  Have  a  pint  of  milk  (or  a  little  more  if 
wanted)  at  scalding  point;  pour  slowly  into  the  tomato,  stirring 
briskly.  Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a  teaspoon  of  butter  and 
two  tablespoons  of  well-boiled  rice.  Let  simmer  for  three  or  four 
minutes;  serve  in  hot  tureen.  The  rice  makes  the  soup  just  thick 
enough.    Add  the  croutons  the  last  thing. 

Croutons — Take  a  slice  of  bread  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut 
into  small  squares.  Have  a  teaspoon  of  butter  in  frying-pan. 
When  hot  and  frothy  add  the  bread  and  toss  in  pan  until  each 
piece  is  browned  equally.  Croutons  make  a  great  addition  to  the 
soup. 

Cocoanut  Cake — This  recipe  makes  a  very  light  and  delicious 
cake,  and  is  very  economical.  Take  two  scant  tablespoons  but- 
ter and  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  smooth  to  a  cream.  Use  two  eggs, 
putting  aside  the  v/hite  of  one  for  the  frosting.  Beat  the  rest  to- 
gether very  light,  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar.  Then  add  one- 
half  cup  milk,  one  cup  flour,  three-fourths  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, one-fourth  teaspoon  vanilla.  This  quantity  makes  a  two- 
layer  cake.  Bake  ten  or  twelve  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Beat  the 
white  of  egg  for  frosting  very  stiff,  add  two  teaspoons  powdered 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  269 

sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Spread  over  one  layer  with 
half  of  this  and  sprinkle  with  prepared  cocoanut  or  fresh-grated 
cocoanut.  Then  add  the  other  layer  and  treat  same  way.  Re- 
turn to  oven  for  about  a  minute  to  set  the  frosting.  This  makes 
a  cake  large  enough  for  tv/o  meals. 

Roast  Beef  and  Yorkshire  Pudding — Have  the  beef  rolled 
and  save  the  bones  for  soup.  Rub  well  with  mustard  and  salt. 
Set  the  roast  in  the  pan  on  a  meat  rest  and  baste  constantly  v/ith 
the  hot  dripping.  About  half  an  hour  before  serving  put  in  the 
potatoes  and  baste  quickly;  then  pour  the  batter  for  Yorkshire 
pudding  under  the  meat  so  that  the  gravy  can  drop  in  it.  To  make 
the  batter,  take  one  egg,  one-half  cup  milk,  pinch  of  salt  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  When  cooked  cut  in  squares  and 
serve  on  platter  v/ith  roast. 

Gooseberry  Tart — Preserve  a  pint  of  gooseberries.  Line  a 
pie-plate  v>^ith  a  rich  crust.  Then  add  a  border  of  the  paste  about 
an  inch  v/ide.  Press  down  lightly  with  a  fork.  Add  the  goose- 
berries and  cross  the  tart  with  three  narrow  twisted  strips  of 
paste.  Moisten  the  strips  with  a  drop  of  water  at  each  end  to 
make  them  adhere  to  the  border  of  the  tart.  Cook  about  twenty 
minutes  in  hot  oven.  This  should  be  served  very  cold,  and  is 
delicious  v/ith  the  addition  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  L.  B.  Russell. 

No.  4425  Vincennes  Avenue,  Chicago, 


TUESDAY,  JUNE  THE  FIFTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST, 

Strawberries.  Flummery. 

Tomato  omelet.  Brown  bread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Broiled  whitefish.        ■    Creamed  potatoes. 

Rice  buns.  Gooseberry  fool. 

Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Potage  ^  la  bonne  femme. 

Beef  olives.  Cauliflower  au  gratin. 

Strawberry  cream.  Coffee. 


Flummery — Three  handfuls  of  small  white  oatmeal,  a  salt- 
spoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  white  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of 
orange  flower  water.  Put  the  oatmeal  in  cold  water  enough  to 
cover  it  and  let  it  steep  a  day  and  a  night;    then  pour  it  off  clear 


270  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

and  add  as  much  more  water,  and  let  it  stand  the  same  time. 
Strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  add  the  salt,  and  boil  it  till  it  be- 
comes as  thick  as  hasty  pudding,  stirring  it  v/ell  all  the  time. 
Add  the  sugar  and  flower  water,  pour  into  shallow  dishes  and 
serve  to  eat  with,  milk  or  sugar. 

Tomato  Omelet — One  tomato,  three  eggs,  a  piece  of  shalot, 
one  and  one-half  ounces  of  butter;  skin  the  tomato,  cut  it  up  into 
small  pieces,  add  the  piece  of  shalot  chopped  up;  take  the  eggs 
and  beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately;  mix  the  tomato,  shalot 
and  just  a  dash  of  pepper  and  quarter-teaspoonful  of  salt  with 
the  yolks.  Put  the  butter  into  the  omelet-pan  and  make  it  quite 
hot,  then  stir  the  whipped  whites  lightly  into  the  yolks;  put  the 
mixture  into  the  omelet-pan  and  cook  for  about  three  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time. 

Creamed  Potatoes — Make  a  cream  sauce  of  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together 
until  smooth  and  add  it  to  the  milk  when  boiling.  When  creamy 
add  the  salt.  Cut  four  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  small  blocks, 
place  them  in  a  baking-dish  and  cover  with  the  cream  sauce. 
Sprinkle  over  a  thin  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and  bake  until  a  nice 
brown. 

Rice  Buns — Two  ounces  of  flour,  four  ounces  of  ground  rice, 
four  ounces  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  good  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cream  the 
sugar  and  butter,  add  half  the  flour  and  one  egg,  then  the  remain- 
der of  the  flour,  egg  and  baking  powder  (be  sure  to  mix  the  flour 
and  ground  rice  together  while  it  is  in  its  dry  state),  grease  some 
patty  or  gem-pans,  and  fill  them  tvv'^o-thirds  full  with  the  mix- 
ture; bake  them  for  fifteen  minutes.  Enough  to  make  buns  for 
two  luncheons  and  very  good  when  kept  in  closed  tin  from  the  air. 

Gooseberry  Pool — Pick  one  quart  of  young  gooseberries  and 
put  them  into  a  jar  with  very  little  water  and  plenty  of  sugar; 
put  the  jar  into  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water  till  the  fruit  be- 
comes quite  tender,  then  press  it  through  a  colander,  and  add  one 
quart  of  cream  or  rich  milk  (be  sure  to  stir  in  the  cream  or  milk 
very  gradually  so  that  it  will  not  curdle),  pour  into  small  glasses 
and  set  in  a  very  cool  place  till  v^^anted.  The  amount  of  sugar 
must  be  according  to  one's  liking.     (This  is  good.) 

Potage  k  la  Bonne  Pemme — Two  small  lettuces,  two  leaves  of 
sorrel,  four  sprigs  of  tarragon,  one  cucumber,  one  ounce  of  but- 
ter, one  teaspoon  of  white  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one 
pint  and  a  half  of  thin  white  stock  or  water  that  meat  has  been 
boiled  in,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  gill  of  milk,  the  crust  of  a 
French  roll.  Wash  the  lettuce,  sorrel,  tarragon  and  shred  them 
all  finely.  Peel  the  cucumber,  cut  into  thin  slices  and  shred  them 
also.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  stew-pan,  place  in  the  shredded  vege- 
tables and  herbs  and  cook  them  for  five  minutes,  but  do  not  let 
them  discolor.  Sprinkle  over  the  salt  and  sugar,  add  the  stock 
and  let  the  vegetables  boil  slowly  until  tender.  Beat  the  eggs  and 
milk  together;  take  the  stew-pan  containing  the  soup  off  the  fire 


THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  271 

and  let  it  cool,  then  strain  in  the  eggs  and  milk;  place  the  stew- 
pan  on  the  fire  and  stir  until  the  eggs  are  cooked.  Put  the  crust 
of  a  French  roll  in  the  oven  to  dry  for  a  few  minutes,  then  cut  it 
into  small,  round  pieces.  Put  these  into  the  tureen  and  pour  the 
hot  soup  over  them. 

Beef  Olives— One  pound  and  a  half  of  beef,  three  ounces  of 
bread  crumbs,  two  ounces  of  suet,  one  teaspoon  each  of  chopped 
parsley,  thyme  and  marjoram,  a  grating  of  nutmeg  and  lemon 
rind,  one  egg,  one  pint  of  brown  gravy.  Cut  the  beef  into  pieces 
of  half  an  inch  thick  and  four  inches  long,  and  beat  them  out  flat. 
Chop  up  the  trimmings  of  the  beef,  the  suet,  parsley,  thyme  and 
marjoram  and  mix  them  in  a  bowl  with  the  bread  crumbs,  the 
grated  lemon  rind,  nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  just  a  dash 
of  pepper  and  the  egg;  stuff  each  piece  of  beef  with  this  mixture, 
roll  it  up  and  tie  round  v/ith  a  piece  of  string.  Place  these  stuffed 
rolls  of  beef  in  a  stew-pan  with  one  pint  of  seasoned  brown  gravy 
(that  has  been  left  over  from  roast  meat)  and  stew  gently  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  For  serving  take  off  the  string  and 
dish  up  with  a  border  of  mashed  potato  and  gravy  poured  round. 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin — Boil  one  nice  cauliflower  in  salted 
water  till  tender,  then  take  up  and  drain.  Mix  one-half  ounce  of 
butter  and  one  ounce  of  flour  together,  add  one  gill  of  cold  water 
and  stir  the  sauce  over  the  fire  till  it  is  thick  and  quite  smooth, 
then  add  one  tablespoon  of  cream  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  stir  in 
one  ounce  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  pour  this  gently  over 
the  cauliflower,  sprinkle  another  ounce  of  cheese  over  the  top 
and  brown  either  before  the  fire  or  in  very  hot  oven.  Serve  very 
hot. 

Strawberry  Cream — There  will  be  sure  to  be  some  strawber- 
ries left  over  from  breakfast,  as  one  can  always  get  them  cheaper 
by  taking  more  than  enough  for  one  meal.  Take  the  stalks  off 
and  clean  about  one  quart  of  berries;  put  them  on  a  hair  sieve, 
sprinkle  over  one  ounce  of  white  sugar,  and  pass  them  through 
the  sieve.  Put  one  ounce  of  gelatine  into  a  stew-pan  with  three 
tablespoons  of  cold  water,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  two  ounces 
more  of  white  sugar;  when  the  gelatine  is  melted  strain  it  into 
the  strawberries,  add  half  pint  of  whipped  cream,  stir  all  lightly 
together,  pour  into  a  wet  mold  and  put  it  away  in  a  very  cool 
place  to  set  till  wanted.  Mrs.  H.  Ross  Edwards. 

Anderson,  Ind. 


WEDNESDAY,  JUNE  THE  SIXTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Black  raspberries. 

Tomato  toast  with  poached  eggs. 

Hashed  potatoes. 

Yeast  puffs  and  coffee. 


272  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cheese  omelet. 

Thill  bread  and  butter.     Olives. 

Shredded  pineapples.      Hot  or  iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Onion   soup. 

Fish  maitre  d'  hotel.        Baked  potatoes. 

Deviled-  eggs.    Sliced  cucumbers. 

Banana  float  and  cake. 


Tomato  Toast  with  Poached  Eggs— Place  three  sliced  ripe  to- 
matoes in  a  saucepan  over  the  Are;  add  one-half  teaspoonful  salt, 
three  dashes  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  sugar  and  same  of  butter; 
boil  ten  minutes.  In  meantime  toast  five  slices  of  bread,  butter 
them  and  place  on  hot  dish.  Pour  the  tomatoes  over  the  toast 
and  on  each  slice  place  one  poached  egg. 

Yeast  Puffs— Sift  one  pint  flour  in  a  bowl,  add  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  one  ounce  butter  (rub 
butter  fine  in  the  flour),  break  one-half  yeast  cake  into  one  cup 
lukewarm  water;  set  cup  in  warm  place  until  yeast  rises  to  sur- 
face, then  add  it  to  the  flour;  add  also  one-half  cupful  lukewarm 
water  and  one  egg;  mix  all  into  a  smooth  batter;  let  it 
stand  over  night.  In  morning  butter  some  gem  tins  and  fill  half 
full  with  the  batter,  bake  in  a  medium-hot  oven  and  serve  in  a 
napkin. 

Cheese  Omelet— Grate  two  ounces  of  cheese;  mix  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  with  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  same  of  pep- 
per, and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water;  beat  the  two  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth;  add  slowly  while  beating  constantly  the  yolk  mix- 
ture to  the  whites;  place  a  frying-pan  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
butter  over  the  fire;  when  hot  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  as  soon 
as  the  omelet  is  brown  underneath  sprinkle  over  one-half  the 
grated  cheese;  place  the  pan  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven, 
then  turn  omelet  so  both  sides  meet  in  center;  turn  on  a  hot 
dish.    Prepare  another  omelet  in  the  same  way. 

Onion  Soup— Parboil  two  large  onions  five  minutes,  then  re- 
move and  chop  fine;  add  one  tablespoonful  grated  carrot;  place 
them  in  a  sauce-pan  over  the  fire  with  one  ounce  beef  fat;  cook 
six  minutes;  add  one  tablespoonful  flour;  stir  a  few  minutes,  then 
add  one  quart  boiling  water,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  a  few 
dashes  of  pepper,  and  one  teaspoonful  beef  extract.  Cook  thirty 
minutes,  then  strain  and  add  one-fourth  cupful  cream  and  serve. 
This  soup  is  very  nourishing  and  wholesome. 

Fish  Maitre  d'  Hotel — Procure  three  slices  of  fresh  cod- 
fish, remove  skin  and  bones  and  cut  slices  in  half;  season  v/ith 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  few  dashes  of  pepper;  dust  with 
flour;  dip  the  pieces  in  beaten  eggs,  cover  them  with  freshly  rolled 
cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  larding  pork  or  lard;  lay  fish  on  hot 


THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK  273 

dish;  stir  one  ounce  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  one  tablespoonful 
lemon  juice,  one  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  and  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  nutmeg;  spread  this  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

Deviled  Eggs — Boil  three  eggs  tvv^enty  minutes,  then  place  in 
cold  water;  when  cool  remove  shells  and  cut  eggs  in  halves,  re- 
move yolks  without  breaking  whites  and  mix  with  them  one  tea- 
spoonful  melted  butter,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  three  dashes 
of  pepper,  a  pinch  of  mustard  and  a  few  drops  of  vine- 
gar. Stuff  the  v/hltes  with  this  mixture  and  place  them  on  let- 
tuce leaves.  A  little  sala4  dressing  can  be  poured  over  them  if 
desired. 

Banana  Float— Place  in  a  double  boiler  one  pint  of  milk,  two 
tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  cornstarch,  stir  over  fire  until  thick,  then  add  a  little 
vanilla  flavoring.  When  custard  is  cold  beat  the  two  whites  to  a 
snff  froth;  mix  v/ith  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  cut  three  ba- 
nanas into  slices  and  place  in  dish,  pour  .over  the  custard  and 
put  whites  of  eggs  on  top  in  shape  of  snov/  balls. 

Cassie  J.  Willis.   . 

No.  4700  Grand  Boulevard,  Chicago. 


THURSDAY,  JUNE  THE  SEVENTEENTH, 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  pineapple. 

Rice  and  meat  croquettes. 

Hot  rolls. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Broiled  shad.  Sliced  cucumbers. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Chocolate  custard.  Ginger  cookies. 

Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Asparagus  soup. 

Roast  veal  with  gravy. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Wax  beans. 

Lettuce  salad. 

Sea-foam  cake.  Strawberry  sherbet. 

Chocolate  Custard— Scaid  one  quart  of  milk  and  add  four 
tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate,  stirring  until  all  the  chocolate  is 
dissolved;  then  cool  it  a  little.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  six  eggs 
with  one  cup  of  sugar  and  stir  into  the  milk  and  chocolate.  Add  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  pour  into  cups.    Stand  the  cups  in  a 


274  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

baking  dish  with  about  one  inch  of  water  around  them.  Put 
into  the  oven  and  bake  slowly  until  set.  When  done  beat  up  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  spread 
on  custard  and  brown  in  the  oven.  To  be  served  cold.  These 
are  very  nice. 

Ginger  Cookies — One-half  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  butter- 
milk, one  egg,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter  (melted), 
one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger.  Mix  with  flour 
soft  as  can  Be  handled.    Roll  out  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Wax  Beans — String,  snap  and  wash  one  quart  of  beans,  boil 
in  only  enough  water  to  cover  them  until  very  tender.  When 
done  add  a  dressing  of  half  a  cup  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  cream, 
piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  salt  and  quar- 
ter-teaspoonful  pepper.     Let  it  boil  and  serve. 

Strawberry  Sherbet — Mash  two  quarts  of  acid  strawberries 
with  two  pounds  of  sugar;  let  stand  an  hour  or  more,  squeeze  in 
a  straining  cloth,  pressing  out  all  the  juice;  add  an  equal  measure 
of  water.  Pour  into  a  freezer,  and  when  half  frozen  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  in  the  proportion  of  three  eggs  to  a  quart  of 
the  liquid.    Freeze  until  firm. 

Sea-Foam  Cake — The  whites  of  ten  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff,  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder.  Sift  the  flour  and  sugar  together  four  times,  then 
add  the  baking  powder  and  sift  four  times  more.  Stir  gradually 
into  the  beaten  whites,  pour  into  a  buttered  and  paper-lined  pan 
and  bake  in  a  rather  cool  oven  until  done.  It  v/ill  bake  in  about 
forty  or  fifty  minutes.    This  is  almost  like  angels'  food. 

Mrs.  L.  L.  Snider. 

Osceola,  Neb. 


FRIDAY,   JUNE   THE   EIGHTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries. 

Poached  eggs  on  toast.    Broiled  ham. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

A  meal  in  itself. 

Thin  bread    and   butter.    Pickles. 

Stewed  cherries.  Hot  or  iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Asparagus   soup. 

Broiled  shad.  Potato  croquettes. 

Eigg  salad.  Sliced  cucumbers. 

Pineapple  fritters. 

After-dinner  coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  275 

Broiled  Ham— Select  a  nice  large  slice  of  rather  lean  ham, 
broil  lightly  on  both  sides,  season  with  a  dash  of  pepper. 

A  Meal  in  Itself— Boil  one-quarter  pound  macaroni  in  slight- 
ly salted  water  until  tender.  Grate  cheese  over  it,  add  a  spoon- 
ful cold  stewed  tomato,  then  a  light  layer  of  chopped  meat.  Sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  cold  gravy  and  small  pieces  of 
butter.  Repeat  this  until  the  dish  is  full,  adding  milk  to  moisten. 
Bake  about  one-half  hour.  This  is  nutritious  and  very  good  in- 
deed. 

Stewed  Cherries — Pick  and  wash  one  quart  cherries.  Cover 
with  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cook  them.  When  half  done  add 
three-fourths  large  cup  sugar,  stir  lightly  and  cook  slowly  until 
the  sirup  is  clear  and  thick. 

Egg  Salad — Boil  three  eggs  until  hard  and  place  in  cold 
water.  When  cold  take  off  shells,  slice  in  two  lengthwise.  Lay 
on  a  dish  covered  with  lettuce  leaves.  Pour  over  a  sauce  made  of 
three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one  of  lemon  juice,  one  of  minced 
pickle,  one-half  teaspoon  of  grated  lemon  rind,  a  little  v/hite 
pepper  and  small  saltspoon  salt. 

Pineapple  Fritters — Make  a  batter  with  one  egg  beaten  sepa- 
rately. To  the  yolk  add  one-half  cup  milk,  pinch  of  salt  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  the  beaten  white  and  a  half- 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  Open  a  can  of  best  pineapple.  Cut 
each  slice  in  half,  dip  in  the  batter  and  fry  in  very  hot  lard. 
Drain,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  on  a  dish  covered 
with  a  napkin.  One-third  can  of  pineapple  is  sufficient  for  a 
meal.  The  same  quantity  of  fresh  pineapple  is  much  more  de- 
sirable and  at  this  season  no  more  expensive. 

A.  M.  Landis. 

No.  1115  North  Clark  Street,  Chicago. 


SATURDAY,   JUNE   THE   NINETEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  gooseberries. 

Wheatina. 

Codfish  balls.      White  corn  cakes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Melton  veal. 

Rice  croquettes.       Radishes. 

Entire-wheat  buns. 

Cocoa. 


276  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Savory  soup. 

Chicken  stew.      Potato  puff. 

Cucumbers. 

Sago  cream  with  strawberry  sauce. 

Coffee. 

Stewed  Gooseberries — Pick  over  a  quart  box  of  gooseberries, 
put  over  the  fire  with  a  little  water  and  about  three-quarters  of 
a  cup  of  sugar.  Stew  gently  until  the  skins  are  well  broken. 
Serve  very  cold. 

Codfish  Balls — Shred  a  cup  and  a  half  of  salt  codfish,  letting 
it  lie  in  cold  v/ater  during  the  process,  as  well  as  over  night.  Put 
into  a  dish  v/ith  three  cups  of  sliced  raw  potatoes.  Cover  with 
boiling  water  and  boil  gently  until  the  potatoes  are  soft.  Drain 
off  all  the  water  and  mash  thoroughly  with  a  potato  masher.  Add 
a  little  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter and  beat  with  a  fork  until  light  and  creamy.  When  cool  flour 
the  hands  and  mold  into  flat  cakes.  Pry  in  a  deep  kettle  in  a  wire 
basket.  These  may  be  prepared  the  day  before  and  are  much  more 
palatable  than  those  made  with  the  codfish  shredded  and  put 
up  in  boxes. 

Melton  Veal — Take  a  pound  any  cold  veal,  chop  it  fine  and 
season  with  one-half  saltspoon  of  salt,  one  saltspoon  of  pepper 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Add  two  or  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  cracker  crumbs  and  moisten  with  soup  stock  or  hot  water. 
Take  one-third  as  much  finely  chopped  ham  as  of  veal,  season 
with  mustard  and  cayenne,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  cracker 
crumbs  and  moisten  v/ith  hot  stock  or  water.  Butter  a  mold 
and  line  it  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg.  Put  in  the  two  mix- 
tures irregularly,  so  that  when  cut  it  will  have  a  mottled  ap- 
pearance; press  in  closely  and  steam  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Set  away  to  cool.  Remove  from  the  mold  and  slice  before  serv- 
ing. This  is  a  convenient  way  of  serving  pieces  of  veal  that  would 
not  otherwise  be  utilized. 

Rice  Croquettes — One  pint  of  cold  boiled  rice  warmed  in  a 
double  boiler  with  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  When 
soft  add  one  egg,  well  beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper  and  one  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful of  fine-chopped  parsley.  Shape,  roll  in  fine  dry  crumbs,  then 
in  beaten  egg  and  again  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  smoking-hot  fat, 
the  same  as  for  fishballs. 

Entire- Wheat  Buns — Scald  one  large  cupful  of  milk.  Pour  it 
hot  over  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Add 
one-quarter  cup  of  melted  butter.  V/hen  luke-warm  add  one-half 
cake  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  luke-warm  water. 
Stir  in  about  three  cups  and  a  half  of  entire-wheat  flour,  adding 
a  well-beaten  egg  and  one-half  cup  dried  currants.  Let  it  rise 
until  light.  If  too  soft  to  handle,  add  a  little  white  flour.  Knead 
a  few  minutes,  roll  out,  cut  into  biscuits  and  let  them  rise  again 


/THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  277 

until  very  light.  Bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  an  oven  not  so 
hot   as  for   white   biscuits. 

Chicken  Stew — Get  a  fowl  for  boiling,  singe  and  cut  into  pieces 
for  serving.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  add  one  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  simmer  until  tender.  Remove  the  chicken  to  a  hot 
platter,  strain  the  liquor  and  remove  the  fat.  Add  to  the  liquor 
one  cup  of  milk  and  heat  it  again.  Melt  a  large  tablespoonful 
of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and 
when  well  mixed  pour  on  slowly  the  liquor.  Add  one-quarter 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  pepper,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  celery  salt  and  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Pour  over 
the  chicken  and  serve. 

Potato  Puff — Prepare  one  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes  sea- 
soned with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-quarter  saltspoon  pepper, 
one-half  teaspoon  celery  salt,  and  butter  size  of  walnut,  making  it 
quite  moist  with  hot  milk.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  two  eggs 
separately,  and  stir  them  into  the  potatoes  when  slightly  cooled. 
Turn  into  a  shallow  baking  dish,  pile  it  in  a  rocky  form  and  bake 
until  it  is  puffed  and  brov/ned. 

Sago  Cream — Cook  one-half  cup  of  sago  in  one  pint  of  milk 
until  clear,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  three  tablespoons  of  sugar. 
Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  add  to  the  mixture  and  cook  two 
minutes.  Flavor  with  lemon  when  a  little  cool  and  fold  in  lightly 
one  cup  of  whipped  cream.    Pour  into  a  mold  and  set  on  ice. 

Strawberry  Sauce — Crush  a  pint  of  berries,  add  half  a  cup -of 
sugar  and  let  them  stand  an  hour  or  two.  Serve  on  each  dish 
of  the  sago  cream.  Addie  S.  Chenoweth. 

No.  138  Scoville  Avenue,  Oak  Park,  111. 


SUNDAY,  JUNE  THE  TWENTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

California   cherries. 

Iced  wheat  flakes,  cream  and  sugar. 

Watercresses. 

Creole  kedgeree.      Buttered  toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Beef-kidney  stew. 

Green  bean  salad,  roumaine  dressing. 

Baked  southern  waflles. 

Waukesha  cream  cheese. 

Russian  tea. 


278  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  onion  soup. 

Lamb  chops  in  batter  (New  Orleans  style). 

Stewed  potatoes.      French  peas. 

Chilled  tomatoes,  mayonnaise   dressing. 

Raspberry   custard.  Perfection   sponge   cake. 

Black  coffee. 


Iced  Wheat  Flakes — Stir  four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
Fruen's  wheat  wafers  into  three  and  a  half  cups  of  fast  boiling 
water,  add  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  cook  for  twenty  min- 
utes, using  a  double  boiler  if  you  have  it.  Cook  the  wafers  the 
day  before  using,  pour  into  coffee  cups,  filling  each  half  full,  place 
on  ice  over  night  and  when  ready  to  serve  remove  from  cups  and 
eat  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

Creole  Kedgeree — One  cup  of  cold  salmon  or  codfish  steak 
(left  over  from  yesterday's  dinner),  flaked  and  freed  from  bone; 
one  cup  cold  boiled  rice;  one  cold  boiled  egg,  chopped  fine;  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  one-fourth  of  a  saltspoonful  of  cayenne 
pepper;  one  level  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and,  if  you  have  it,  a 
saltspoonful  of  curry  powder.  Mix  well  together,  cook  for  three 
minutes  and  serve  with  thin  slices  of  nicely  browned  buttered 
toast. 

Green  Bean  Salad — Pour  the  liquor  from  a  pint  of  well- 
cooked,  cold  string  beans  and  lay  them  upon  a  towel  to  drain 
perfectly.  Dress  with  a  roumaine  salad  dressing  made  as  follows: 
Grate  a  teaspoonful  of  onion,  mix  it  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
lemon  juice,  a  heaping  saltspoon  of  salt  and  one  of  powdered 
sugar,  a  level  saltspoonful  each  of  pepper  and  dry^mustard,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  salad  oil.     Sugar  may  be  omitted. 

Baked  Southern  Waffles — To  one  pint  of  flour  add  one  cup  of 
warm — not  hot — cornmeal  mush,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  four 
eggs  beaten  light  (yolks  and  whites  separately) — a  half  cupful 
of  cream,  and  a  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Stir  the  cream  and  the  beaten 
yolks  of  the  eggs  into  the  mush,  then  add  the  flour  and  the  milk, 
stirring  well  and  mixing  perfectly  smooth.  The  whites  of  the 
eggs  should  be  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  added  the  last  thing 
before  baking.  Have  your  gem-pans  warm  and  well-greased  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  eight  minutes.  This  quantity  will  make  tWo 
dozen,  but  they  are  of  so  melting  a  quality  that  I  think  you  will 
find  them  none  too  many  for  five. 

Cream  of  Onion  Soup — This  most  palatable  soup  is  warmly 
commended  by  a  well-known  physician  as  an  exceedingly  health- 
ful hot-weather  dish.  Fry  four  medium-sized  onions,  cut  fine,  in 
two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  but  do  not  allow  them  to 
brown;  add  to  the  onions  three  pints  of  water,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  a  small  bunch  of  parsley,  and 
boil  sixty  minutes.  Strain,  and  add  one  quart  of  milk  thickened 
with  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  an  equal 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  279 

quantity  of  cold  water.  Cook  for  ten  minutes  longer,  and  just 
before  serving  add  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

Chops  in  Batter — Have  your  butcher  cut  you  eight  loin  chops 
from  last  year's  mutton  (known  in  most  markets  as  lamb).  They 
should  weigh  two  pounds.  Cut  each  chop  in  two,  remove  the  bone, 
scrape  carefully  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  rich 
batter  with  one  cup  of  flour,  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  salt,  two 
eggs  beaten  light,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  a  cup 
of  milk.  Dip  each  piece  of  the  chops  in  batter  and  drop  into  a 
kettle  of  boiling-hot  lard.  The  secret  of  cooking  meat  prop- 
erly in  this  way  is  to  keep  the  fat  at  the  boiling  point,  so  do 
not  put  in  more  than  three  pieces  at  a  time,  and  if  well  done 
you  will  find  them  as  tender  as  spring  chicken. 

French  Peas — Shell  two  quarts  of  green  peas  and  boil  in 
slightly  salted  water  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Then  put  them  in  a 
sieve  and  drain  as  dry  as  possible.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  place  over  the  fire  and  when  it  melts  stir 
in  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour,  making  it  quite  free  from  lumps. 
Dissolve  a  level  teaspoonful  of  pov/dered  sugar  in  a  cupful  of 
cream,  add  it  gradually  to  the  butter  and  flour,  and  when  it  boils 
hard  stir  in  the  peas  and  let  them  stew  until  they  are  heated 
through,  stirring  to  prevent  burning. 

Raspberry  Custard — Mix  together  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two 
cups  of  milk,  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  scant 
tablespoonful  of  cornstarch.  Cook  slowly  over  the  fire  in  a 
double  boiler,  removing  when  it  reaches  the  boiling  point.  Mash 
one  pint  of  red  raspberries  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  place  in 
pretty  glass  dish,  pour  over  them  the  custard  and  set  away  to  cool. 
Just  before  the  dinner  hour  whip  the  two  whites  as  stiff  as  possi- 
ble, color  with  the  tiniest  particle  of  Burnett's  rose  coloring  and 
mix  with  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar.  Spread  this  over 
the  custard  and  serve  v/ith  perfection  sponge  cake. 

Perfection  Sponge  Cake — Measure  carefully  one-third  of  a  cup 
of  flour  and  one-half  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  sift  four  times  and 
set  aside.  Separate  the  yolks  and  whites  of  four  eggs,  reserving 
two  of  the  yolks  for  salad  dressing.  Whip  the  whites  as  stiff  as 
possible,  adding  when  half-beaten  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
cream  tartar.  Beat  in  the  sugar,  then  the  two  yolks  and  lastly 
the  flour,  stirring  very  lightly  after  adding  the  flour.  Flavor  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  bake  in  a  pan  that  has  never  been 
greased.  It  requires  a  slow  oven  and  will  bake  in  twenty-five  min- 
utes. This  quantity  fills  a  pan  T^/^  by  T^^  inches  and  iy2  inches 
deep,  making  a  medium-sized  cake,  but  more  than  sufiicient  for 
one  meal.  Mrs.  Charles  Lake  West. 

No.  1151  Jackson  Boulevard,  Chicago. 


280  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOI^. 

MONDAY,  JUNE  THE  TWENTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Compote  of  gooseberries. 
Souffle  of  fish. 
Yankee  puffs.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Scotch  eggs  with  tomato  sauce. 

Thin   bread   and  butter. 

Raspberries.  Koumiss. 


DINNER. 

Roast  shoulder  of  lamb.     Mint  sauce. 
Potato  scallops.    Green  beans,  maitre  d'  hotel  dressing. 
English  raspberry  and  red  currant  tarts. 
Coffee. 


Compote  of  Gooseberries — Top  and  tail  one  quart  of  nice 
gooseberries  and  pour  over  them  some  boiling  water;  then  take 
out  and  plunge  them  into  cold  water,  with  which  has  been  mixed 
a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  (which  will  assist  to  keep  the  fruit 
a  good  color),  make  a  pint  of  sirup  thus:  One  pint  of  water, 
three-fourths  pound  of  sugar  (white),  boil  together  fifteen  min- 
utes, carefully  removing  the  scum  as  it  rises;  drain  the  goose- 
berries and  put  them  in;  simmer  them  gently  until  the  fruit  is 
nicely  pulped  and  tender,  without  being  broken;  then  dish  the 
gooseberries  on  a  glass  dish;  boil  sirup  for  two  or  three  minutes, 
pour  over  the  gooseberries  and  serve  cold. 

Souffle  of  Fish — Take  one-half  pound  of  any  cold  fish,  free 
from  bones  and  skin,  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  one  ounce  of  but- 
ter, rub  this  through  a  sieve,  then  put  it  into  a  basin,  add  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  by  one,  and  mix  well;  stir  in  one  gill  of 
cream  whipped,  one  dash  of  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  a  grating  of  nutmeg.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  stir  in  very  lightly.  Pour  this  mixture  into  a  round 
mold  and  bake  about  ten  minutes.    Serve  very  hot. 

Potato  Scallops— One  pound  of  cold  potatoes,  one-half  cup 
of  milk,  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  butter,  one  and  one-half 
ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese;  mash  the  potatoes  quite  soft 
v/ith  the  milk  and  the  butter  melted;  add  half  the  cheese,  two 
dashes  of  pepper  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  (scant).  Fill  some 
patty  pans  with  this  mixture  and  brown  them  in  the  oven.  While 
hot  glaze  each  over  with  melted  butter  and  the  rest  of  the 
cheese;  serve  very  hot  in  the  pattie  pans  on  a  napkin. 

Yankee  Puffs— One  ounce  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar, 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  281 

two  eggs  (whites  and  yolks  separate),  one  and  one-half  teacups 
of  milk,  one  and  one-half  teacups  of  flour,  one-half  saltspoon  of 
salt,  three-fourths  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Beat  the  butter  to  a 
cream;  add  the  sugar  and  well-beaten  yolks,  then  the  milk,  which 
should  be  salted;  dredge  in  the  flour  by  degrees,  and  when  these 
are  well  mixed  add  the  flavoring  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Bake  in  well-buttered  cups  about  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes  till  of  a  light  brovv^n.  As  these  puffs  rise  very  much  the 
cups  must  not  be  more  than  half  filled. 

Koumiss — Into  one  quart  of  new  milk  put  one  gill  of  fresh 
buttermilk  and  three  or  four  lumps  of  white  sugar.  Mix  well  and 
see  that  the  sugar  dissolves.  Put  into  warm  place  to  stand  ten 
hours,  when  it  will  be  thick.  Pour  from  one  vessel  to  another  un- 
til it  becomes  smooth  and  uniform  in  consistency.  Bottle  and 
keep  in  warm  place  twenty-four  hours.  The  bottles  must  be  tight- 
ly corked  and  the  corks  tied  down.  Shake  well  five  minutes  be- 
fore opening.  It  makes  a  very  agreeable  drink.  Instead  of  but- 
termilk some  use  a  teaspoonful  of  yeast.  The  richer  your  milk 
(which  should  be  unskimmed)  the  better  will  be  your  koumiss. 

Roast  Shoulder  of  Lamb — It  makes  a  nice  roast,  and  it  is 
sometimes  more  economical  to  have  a  joint  that  will  be  nice  hot 
for  first  day's  dinner;  then  can  be  used  sliced  cold  with  salad  for 
next  day's  meal,  and  then  used  up  for  mince  or  croquettes  and  the 
bones  used  for  soup. 

Green  Beans,  Maitre  d'  Hotel  Dressing — One  pound  of  green 
beans,  two  ounces  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  pars- 
ley, the  juice  of  one-half  lemon.  Pick  and  string  the  beans,  cut- 
ting each  bean  into  two  or  three  strips,  v/ash  them  v/ell  in  cold 
water,  drain  them  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water; 
boil  fast  till  tender.  Put  them  in  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes, 
dry  them  in  a  clean  cloth  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  the 
butter,  parsley,  lemon  juice,  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  just  a  dash  of 
pepper  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  When  quite  hot  serve 
them  with  sippets  of  fried  bread. 

Raspberry  and  Red  Currant  Tart — When  fruit  is  so  cheap  and 
plentiful  as  it  is  just  now  fruit  pies  always  taste  so  much  nicer 
made  and  baked  in  a  deep  pie  dish  (English  fashion).  There  is 
always  sure  to  be  some  raspberries  left  over  from  luncheon;  put 
a  layer  of  these  at  the  bottom  of  the  pie  dish,  then  a  layer  of  red 
currants  cleaned  and  stemmed,  then  another  layer  of  raspber- 
ries, then  currants,  and  proceed  till  your  dish  is  full  (it  Y\all  take 
about  three  pints  of  fruit  to  make  a  nice  pie) ;  sprinkle  over  one- 
half  cupful  of  sugar  and  one-half  cupful  of  water,  put  a  thin  layer 
of  pie  crust  round  the  edge,  then  put  on  your  top  crust,  brush 
over  with  a  little  water  and  sift  a  little  granulated  sugar  on  the 
top.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  thirty  minutes;  the  sugar 
makes  it  have  a  nice  frosted  look;  only  be  careful  you  watch  it 
after  it  is  in  the  oven  so  that  it  does  not  burn. 

Mrs.  H.  Ross  Edwards, 

Anderson,  Ind. 


282  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

TUESDAY,  JUNE  THE  TWENTY-SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Currants  on  the  stem. 

California  breakfast  food,  sugar  and  cream. 

Scalloped  mutton.  Whole-v/heat  crisps. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Curried  fish. 

Hulled  corn,  creamed.  Scotch  scones. 

Currant  tarts. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Left-over  soup. 

Smothered  beef.  Egg-plant  fritters. 

Potatoes  in  the  half-shell. 

Crystallized  fruit.  Delicate  cake. 

Coffee. 


Scalloped  Mutton — Remove  the  fat  and  skin  from  cold  roast 
mutton,  cut  the  meat  in  small  thin  slices,  season  it  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Butter  a  shallow  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs, 
then  a  layer  of  meat,  then  cold  boiled  macaroni,  then  the  gravy 
left  from  the  roast.  Cover  the  top  with  a  layer  of  crumbs  moist- 
ened in  one-third  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  crumbs  are  a  light  brown. 

Whole-Wheat  Crisps — One  cup  sour  cream,  one-fourth  cup 
sugar,  one  saltspoonful  salt,  two  cups  whole-wheat  flour.  Mix 
in  the  order  given.  Take  out  on  the  board  and  knead  until  stiff 
enough  to  roll  out  thin  as  a  wafer,  using  more  flour  if  necessary. 
Cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  on  ungreased  tins  in  a  very 
hot  oven.  The  sugar  will  sweeten  the  sour  cream  sufficiently. 
Very  good  for  children  and  people  with  weak  digestion. 

Curried  Pish — Cook  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  five  minutes.  Be  careful  not  to  burn  it. 
Mix  one  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour  and  one  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  stir  into  the  butter.  Add 
one  cup  of  hot  water  gradually,  stirring  briskly  to  make  a  smooth 
■paste.  To  this  add  one  cup  of  cold,  flaked,  seasoned  fish  and 
serve  as  soon  as  the  fish  is  thoroughly  heated  through. 

Hulled  Corn,  Creamed — Make  a  cream  sauce  of  one  pint  of 
milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt  and  one-half  saltspoonful  of  pep- 
per. Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Put  the  butter  in  a  granite 
sauce-pan  and  stir  till  it  melts  and  bubbles.  Add  the  flour  and 
stir  till  well  mixed.    Pour  on  one-third  of  the  hot  milk.    Let  it 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  283 

boil  and  stir  well  as  it  thickens.  Add  another  third  of  the  milk, 
let  it  boil  up  and  thicken  and  stir  vigorously  till  perfectly  smooth. 
Add  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  let  it  boil,  and  when  smooth  add 
the  salt  and  pepper,  using  more  if  high  seasoning  be  desired. 
Into  this  cream  sauce  stir  one  pint  of  cooked,  hulled  corn  and 
cook  all  together  for  two  minutes.     Delicious. 

Currant  Tarts — Make  a  rich  pie  crust  and  roll  it  out  one- 
eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  Line  small  faited  patty-tins  with  this 
paste.  Take  a  fork  and  prick  the  paste  at  intervals  of  one-half 
inch  to  prevent  its  blistering.  When  done  remove  the  tart  shells 
from  the  tins  and  fill  them  with  currant  jam. 

Currant  Jam — Wash,  stem  and  mash  the  fruit.  Allow  the 
proportion  of  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Put  the 
fruit  and  one-quarter  of  the  sugar  into  a  granite  kettle;  when 
boiling  add  another  quarter  of  the  sugar,  and  when  all  is  used 
let  it  boil  till  very  thick.  Putting  in  only  a  little  sugar  at  a  time 
prevents  the  fruit  from  becoming  hard. 

Left-Over  Soup — Take  bones  and  any  good  trimmings  from 
yesterday's  roast,  pieces  of  steak  or  mutton  chops  (about  two 
pounds  in  all),  a  cold  fried  egg,  two  quarts  cold  water,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  one  saltspoonful  celery  salt,  four  cloves  and  one  table- 
spoonful  mixed  herbs.  Cut  up  the  meat  and  bones  and  put  them 
in  the  kettle  with  the  cold  water.  Add  the  other  ingredients  and 
simmer  till  the  bones  are  clean,  the  meat  in  rags,  and  the  water 
reduced  nearly  one-half.  Remove  all  scum  as  it  rises.  Strain, 
cool,  and  remove  the  fat.  When  ready  to  serve  heat  the  stock  to 
the  boiling  point,  adding  any  tomatoes,  macaroni  or  rice  left 
from  yesterday's  meals. 

Egg-Plant  Fritters — Put  a  small  egg-plant  whole  into  boil- 
ing, salted  water  mixed  with  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar;  cook 
twenty  minutes;  drain  and  mash.  To  one  pint  of  egg-plant  add 
half  a  cup  of  flour,  two  beaten  eggs,  one  heaping  saltspoonful 
salt  and  one-half  saltspoonful  pepper.  Shape  in  small  cakes  and 
fry  in  deep  fat,  browning  well  on  both  sides. 

Potatoes  in  the  Half-Shell — Wash,  scrub  and  bake  three 
smooth  potatoes.  Cut  in  halves  lengthwise,  and  without  break- 
ing the  skin  scoop  out  the  potato  into  a  hot  bowl.  Mash  and  add 
one  even  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  hot  milk,  one  saltspoon- 
ful of  salt  and  one-half  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Beat  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  stiff  and  mix  it  with  the  potato.  Fill  the  skins  with 
the  potato  mixture,  heaping  it  lightly  on  the  top.    Brown  slightly. 

Crystallized  Fruit — Boil  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  one 
cup  of  boiling  water  together  for  half  an  hour.  It  must  not  be 
stirred  and  must  boil  slowly,  not  furiously.  Dip  the  point  of  a 
skewer  into  the  sirup  and  then  into  cold  water.  If  the  thread 
formed  breaks  off  brittle  the  sirup  is  ready.  When  done,  set  the 
sauce-pan  in  hot  water  to  keep  the  sirup  from  candying.  Take 
the  prepared  fruits  on  the  point  of  a  darning  needle  or  small 
skewer,  dip  them  into  the  sirup  and  then  lay  them  on  a  dish  which 
has  been  slightly  oiled.  When  thoroughly  cold  they  are  ready 
for  use. 


284  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

Delicate  Cake— One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half 
cup  sv/eet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 
whites  of  four  eggs.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add 
the  milk,  sift  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour  three  times  and 
add  it  gradually.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
stir  in  lightly,  and  bake  one-half  hour.      Miss  Tahleda  Mann. 

P.  O.  Box  255,  Beardstown,  111 


WEDNESDAY,   JUNE   THE   TWENTY-THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Black  raspberries. 

Stewed  kidneys. 

English  breakfast  gems. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Pannikins. 

Brown  bread  and  butter. 

Compote    of    gooseberries. 

Bachelor's  buttons. 

Iced  or  hot  tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  pea  soup. 

Fillets  of  halibut  a  la  poulette. 

New 'potatoes,  sauce  Bechamel. 

Raspberry  cream. 

Coffee. 


Stewed  Kidneys— Cut  three  kidneys  each  into  three  length- 
wise pieces.  Warm  three  tablespoonfuls  butter  in  the  frying-pan. 
Before  this  is  hot  put  in  the  kidney,  with  a  teaspoonful  minced 
onion,  a  half-teacup  water  and  a  cup  of  good  gravy.  Cover  close- 
ly, simmer  gently  flfteen  minutes,  add  one  pinch  each  mace,  nut- 
meg and  pepper,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt  and  juice  of  half  a 
lemon.  Have  ready  a  very  hot  platter  with  slices  of  delicately 
fried  bread  or  buttered  toast.  Pour  the  kidney  on  the  slices, 
thicken  the  gravy  with  brown  flour,  boil  up  once  and  serve. 

English  Breakfast  Gems — Mix  well  one  pint  sifted  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful sugar;  rub  into  this  three  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter, 
add  one  cupful  sweet  milk,  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs;  lastly  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  heat  iron  gem-pans,  grease  well,  fill 
over  half-full,  bake  quickly. 

Pannikins — Chop  fine  enough  cold  meat  to  make  a  pint — if 
any  of  fricasseed  kidney  is  left  Irom  breakfast,  add  it.    Put  the 


^HE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  285 

meat  on  to  heat  with  two  tablespoonfuis  water  and  a  cup  of  rich 
sweet  miik.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoonfiil  each  of  flour  and  but- 
ter rubbed  together;  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  good  pinch 
of  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  if  liked;  pour  this 
creamed  hash  into  the  center  of  a  hot  platter;  bake  as  many  eggs 
as  are  required  in  hot,  buttered  cups;  turn  them  out  and  arrange 
them  around  the  creamed  meat;  put  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper 
and  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hazelnut  on  each  egg. 

Compote  of  Gooseberries — Top  and  tail  one  quart  of  goose- 
berries, drop  into  boiling  water  two  minutes,  drain  and  let  them 
lie  three  minutes  in  cold  water  containing  a  tablespoonful  vin- 
egar to  restore  their  color,  then  drain  quite  dry.  Boil  for  ten  min- 
utes a  sirup  made  from  a  pint  each  of  sugar  and  water;  drop 
in  the  gooseberries  and  boil  them  gently  until  just  tender — about 
ten  minutes.  Pour  into  a  glass  dish.  Tiny  shreds  of  lemon  peel 
boiled  with  the  sirup  improves  the  compote. 

Bachelor's  Buttons — Rub  together  two  tablespoonfuis  butter 
and  five  of  flour.  Divide  five  tablespoonfuis  sugar  into  two  por- 
tions; stir  one  into  the  flour;  heat  the  other  up  with  one  egg  and 
add  to  the  rest.  Flavor  with  few  drops  of  almond  flavoring.  Make 
into  balls — v/ith  the  hand — the  size  of  a  hickorynut,  sprinkle 
lightly  with  white  sugar,  place  on  buttered  paper  and  bake  ra:ther 
slowly.     Very  dainty. 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup — Put  one  pint  of  peas,  measured  after 
shelling,  into  a  granite  sauce-pan  with  enough  cold  v/ater  to  cover 
and  cook  until  tender.  Take  out  half  of  them,  rub  the  remainder 
through  a  sieve  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  cooked.  Scald 
three  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk,  rub  together  two  tablespoonfuis  of 
flour  and  one  of  butter,  add  to  the  milk  and  the  peas  that  were 
rubbed  through  the  sieve.  Stir  until  it  thickens,  add  the  remain- 
ing peas,  a  cup  of  cream,  heated  to  scalding,  a  scant  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  pepper.  A  tiny  sprig  of 
mint  boiled  with  the  peas  is  liked  by  many.  The  peas  should  be 
tender  in  half  an  hour. 

Halibut  a  la  Poulette— Take  a  piece  of  halibut  v/eighing  three 
pounds,  pour  boiling  water  over  it,  and  the  skin  will  come  off 
easily.  Free  it  from  skin  and  bones  and  cut  it  into  strips  about 
three  inches  long,  two  inches  wide  and  half  an  inch  thick.  Lay 
on  a  platter,  sprinkle  slightly  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice, 
lay  a  thin  slice  of  onion  on  each  strip  and  set  it  away  for  half  an 
hour.  Have  ready  two  large  tablespoonfuis  of  melted  butter,  re- 
move the  onion,  dip  each  piece  of  fish  in  the  melted  butter,  roll 
them  up,  fasten  with  a  little  wooden  skewer,  dip  the  rolls  in  the 
butter  again,  put  in  a  dripping  pan,  dredge  thickly  with  fiour. 
Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  and  a 
teacup  of  hot  water  into  the  pan  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven.  Boil  three  eggs  very  hard  fifteen  minutes,  remove  the 
shells,  cut  the  whites  into  rings,  rub  the  yolks  to  a  fine  powder. 
When  the  fish  is  done  place  on  a  hot  platter;  remove  the  skewers, 
pour  over  it  a  boiling  sauce  made  of  two  scant  tablespoonfuis  of 
butter  rubbed  smooth  with  one  of  flour,  a  cup  of  milk,  a  teaspoon-' 


286  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

fill  of  chopped  parsley,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Scatter  the  powdered  yolks  over 
this  sauce  and  garnish  with  the  rings  of  the  white  of  eggs.  White- 
fish  may  be  used  instead  of  halibut. 

New  Potatoes  with  Sauce  Bechamel — Scrape  and  "eye"  the 
potatoes,  having  them  as  nearly  of  a  size  as  may  be.  Drop  into 
boiling  water  containing  a  half-teaspoon  of  salt.  As  soon  as  they 
are  tender,  drain,  put  in  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  saltspoon  of  salt 
over  them  and  let  them  keep  warm  while  the  sauce  is  preparing. 
Heat  a  scant  pint  of  milk  to  the  boiling  point,  rub  very  thorough- 
ly a  large  tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  small  tablespoonful  of  flour 
together,  stir  into  the  hot  milk — stir  until  it  is  a  thick,  creamy 
mass.  Add  a  quarter-teaspoonful  salt,  and  pour  over  the  pota- 
toes. 

Raspberry  Cream — Place  a  pint  of  raspberries  in  a  bowl,  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar.  Let  them  stand  for  an 
hour,  then  rub  through  a  sieve.  Soak  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cold  milk  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  to  it 
one  cup  scalding  hot  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar. 
Stir  until  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  dissolved.  Set  aside, 
and,  when  cool,  add  the  strained  raspberries.  Whip  one-half  pint 
cream,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  whisk  all  lightly  to- 
gether. Set  in  a  very  cold  place  to  harden.  A  half-pint  of  rasp- 
berries may  be  kept  very  cold,  sweetened  slightly  and  poured 
round  the  mold,  when  turned  out  ready  for  the  table. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  Davidson. 

Lewistown,  111. 

THURSDAY,   JUNE   THE   TWENTY-FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  pineapple. 

Poached  eggs  with  sauce.  Veal  trifles. 

Warm  breakfast  rolls.  Potato  patties. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Soup — Olla-podrida. 

Grandmother's  greens.  Graham  gems. 

Apple   florendine. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Chicken   fricassee. 

Cold  breakfast  rolls.       Mashed  potatoes. 

Creamed  peas. 

Strawberries  and  cream, 

Tea. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  287 

Sliced  Pineapple — Cut  the  slices  with  a  sharp  knife  as  thin 
as  possible.  Sugar  plentifully  and  let  stand  for  an  hour.  It  looks 
well  served  on  dish  with  flowers  and  leaves  surrounding  it. 
Clover  blooms  are  nice  and  healthful. 

Veal  Trifles — Purchase  the  evening  before  and  place  to  stew 
with  water  sufiicient  to  cover  a  veal  soup  bone  costing  not  less 
than  5  and  not  more  than  10  cents.  Be  sure  that  it  is  fresh  and 
from  the  hind  quarter.  Cook  until  tender.  Pour  off  the  liquid 
and  strain.  Cut  off  the  choicest  meat  and  place  in  ice  box  till 
morning.  This  can  be  done  while  getting  dinner.  In  the  morn- 
ing take  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs  or  crackers  rolled  fine,  one  egg, 
cayenne  pepper  enough  to  lie  on  the  point  of  a  small  knife,  half 
teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
ounce  of  butter,  one  quarter  of  an  onion  chopped  fine,  one  spoon- 
ful of  fiour  and  use  enough  milk  to  make  stiff  batter,  in  which 
roll  the  pieces  of  veal  and  fry  in  lard  or  butter  till  a  light  brown. 

Poached  Eggs  with  Sauce — Drop  in  boiling  water.  Make 
sauce — one  teaspoonful  each  of  flour,  vinegar  and  butter,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  salt.  Let  boil  and  pour  over  eggs  after  re- 
moving from  water. 

Warm  Breakfast  Rolls — Boil  one  potato,  mash  it  fine;  scald 
with  water  one  pint  of  flour;  add  of  salt  one  teaspoonful;  sugar, 
one  heaped  tablespoonful;  white  of  egg  and  one-half  cake  com- 
pressed yeast.  Set  to  rise,  then  when  very  light  add  flour  suffi- 
cient to  knead  it  thoroughly.  Do  not  knead  it  stiff,  but  it  can 
through  thorough  work  be  made  stiff  enough  to  not  stick  to  hands 
and  yet  be  made  soft.  One  hour  before  retiring  work  in  two 
ounces  of  butter  or  lard,  roll  up  in  woolen  cloths,  and  if  warm 
weather  place  in  ice-box.  Make  out  in  rolls  next  morning  first 
thing,  or  if  possible  one  hour  earlier  than  you  commence  breakfast 
preparations.    When  very  light,  bake  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 

Graham  Gems — Take  one-half  pint  of  graham  fiour,  one-half 
pint  white  flour,  the  yellow  of  egg  left  from  rolls,  one  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  sugar — remember,  no  salt  or  baking  powder. 
Have  your  gem-pans  piping  hot  on  top  of  stove;  add  enough  of 
milk  if  you  can  afford  it,  if  not,  tepid  water  will  do,  to  make  a 
not  very  stiff  batter.  Beat  thoroughly  and  drop  in  pans.  Bake 
quickly  in  a  very  hot  oven.  These  alone,  with  butter,  would  make 
a  wholesome,  nourishing  meal,  on  which  a  dyspeptic  might  fat- 
ten. 

Soup  Olla-Podrida — Take  the  veal  soup  bone,  boil  one  hour, 
then  strain;  add  the  liquor  left  in  ice-box;  add  one  onion  cut 
very  fine,  one  sprig  of  parsley,  one  carrot,  sliced,  two  good-sized 
potatoes;  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  pep- 
per; boil  one  hour;  make  dumplings;  half-cupful  of  fiour, 
a  little  butter — enough  to  make  it  crumble;  moisten  with  a 
little  of  the  soup — enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  roll  out  very  thin 
and  hang  the  sheets  of  dough  a  few  minutes  by  the  fire;  then 
cut  in  pieces  or  threads  no  larger  than  a  whip  cord;  boil  two  or 
three  minutes  and  serve  immediately. 
Crrandmother's  Greens— Take  of  wild  things— by .  this  I  mean 


288  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

sour  docks,  dandelions,  lambsquarters,  etc.— for  tliey  are  excel- 
lent and  have  a  medicinal  quality  of  their  ov/n;  pick  and  wash 
carefully  and  boil  till  tender;  drain  and  pour  over  a  pint  of 
them  a  dressing  made  thus:  One  teaspoon  pepper,  one-quarter 
cup  of  vinegar,  one  spoonful  butter,  one  spoonful  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  mustard  (better  not  ground);  salt  to  taste;  stir  well  to- 
gether and  serve  hot. 

Apple  Plorendine — This  is  an  old-fashioned  pie,  which  many 
of  the  young  people  have  forgotten  or  never  heard  of;  cook  two 
apples — or,  if  green  apples  are  dear,  dried  apples,  stewed  and 
mashed  fine,  are  just  as  good  or  better — one  eg^,  the  yellow  well 
beaten  and  added  to  the  apple  one  minute  before  taking  from 
fire;  also  one  small  cup  of  sugar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  hickory- 
nut  and  one  teaspoonful  of  flour;  spice  with  nutmeg,  lemon  or 
vanilla;  perhaps  we  grandmothers  would  prefer  rose  water;  make 
a  rich  puff  paste;  roll  very  thin;  put  the  mixture  in  the  dough, 
lay  strips  of  the  dough  across  and  bake  in  a  quick  ov^n;  of 
course  any  housekeeper  knows  how  to  make  puff  paste  and  that 
a  firepan  must  be  used;  when  done  add  the  white  beaten  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  on  top  -and  bake  one  minute. 

Sufficient  light  rolls  will  be  left  for  dinner. 

Chicken  Fricassee — Have  a  small  chicken  nicely  prepared, 
boil  for  one  hour  at  lunch  time  whole.  Split  in  the  back  so  that 
it  will  lie  open,  make  a  dressing  of  one  cup  of  bread 
crumbs,  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per, butter  one  teaspoonful.  Lay  the  dressing  on  chick- 
en, which  has  been  seasoned  and  placed  in  dripping 
pan  with  small  lump  of  butter.  Cover  the  dripping 
pan  with  another  pan  tightly  and  place  in  oven.  Cook  till  ten- 
der, adding  the  top  of  the  broth  left  from  the  boiling  from  time  to 
time.  Cook  dry,  and,  uncovering,  let  it  brown.  Make  gravy  to 
be  served  separately  from  what  is  left  of  the  broth  the  chicken 
was  boiled  in,  by  placing  it  in  the  pan  from  which  the  fowl  has 
been  removed,  and  stirring  in  a  thickening  made  of  a  spoonful 
of  browned  flour  moistened  with  milk  or  cream. 

Creamed  Peas — Peas  have  a  finer  taste  to  have  the  pods 
boiled  and  the  peas  cooked  in  the  water  after  they  have  been 
taken  out.  Add  a  saltspoonful  salt,  quarter  saltspoonful  black 
pepper,  one  teaspoonful  fiour,  one  tablespoonful  butter.  Stir  in 
quickly  when  the  one  pint  of  hulled  peas  have  become  soft. 

Strawberries  if  dusty  should  be  washed  before  they  are  hulled. 
Lay  carefully  in  a  sieve  for  a  few  moments.  If  possible  place 
on  table  with  strawberry  leaves  surrounding  them.  Always 
remember  that  next  to  cheerfulness  beauty  and  tastefulness  pro- 
motes digestion,  and  in  reality  the  manner  is  more  than  the 
"menu."  Grandmother  Brown. 

Care  of  Ruth  Brown,  316  Walnut  street,  Chicago. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  ^80 

FRIDAY,  JUNE  THE  TWENTY-FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries   and  cream. 

Broiled  ham   and  egg  toast. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Salad  of  calves'  brains. 

Bread  and  butter.  Green  Onions. 

Cookies.  Hot  or  iced  tea. 

DINNER. 

Mock  oyster  soup. 

Broiled  black  bass.  New  potatoes. 

Cucumbers. 

Chocolate  cream.  Coffee. 


Egg  Toast— Beat  one  egg  lightly,  add  saltspoonful  salt  and 
one  cup  of  milk;  soak  the  slices  of  bread  in  this  custard  until 
soft.  Have  a  griddle  hot  and  well  buttered.  Brown  each  slice 
on  one  side;  then  put  a  piece  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each  slice 
and  turn  and  brown  on  the  other  side.  If  preferred  this  can 
be  fried  in  the  drippings  from  the  ham,  which  gives  the  bread 
a  nice  flavor. 

Salad  of  Calves'  Brains — Brains  should  be  perfectly  fresh. 
Wash  in  cold  water  without  breaking.  Parboil  for  about  ten  min- 
utes in  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  salted,  to  which  half  a  teacup 
of  vinegar  has  been  added.  When  done  throw  the  brains  into 
very  cold  water;  this  whitens  and  hardens  them.  They  may  be 
made  at  once  into  a  salad,  or  will  keep  until  the  next  day  on 
ice.  Remove  all  strings,  cut  up  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  hickory- 
nut.  Put  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan, 
add  teaspoonful  of  very  finely  minced  onion.  Cook  a  minute, 
then  add  the  brains.  Gently  saute  the  brains  for  ten  minutes, 
taking  care  that  they  do  not  burn.  Add  one  saltspoon  salt,  a  salt- 
spoon  black  pepper,  a  pinch  of  mace  (rolled),  remove  from  the 
fire  and  cool.  Add  about  the  same  bulk  of  potatoes  that  have 
been  boiled  just  done  enough  to  slice,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
very  finely  minced  parsley;  mix  lightly  together  with  a  fork.^  A 
half  pound  of  brains  should  be  used. 

Sauce  for  Above — Two  eggs,  add  half  a  cupful  of  water,  same 
quantity  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  same  of  salt, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Mix  all  together,  beat  gradually  on 
the  fire,  stirring  constantly  until  it  becomes  of  thick,  custard- 
like consistency.  Let  it  cool.  Pour  over  the  salad  and  mix 
lightly  with  a  fork.  Serve  on  a  flat  dish.  Garnish  with  parsley 
or  celery  leaves. 

19 


290  THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

Cookies — One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of  butter,  creamed; 
one  egg,  scant  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  cara- 
way seeds,  if  liked,  if  not  any  other  flavoring  may  be  used;  flour 
sufficient  to  make  them  just  stiff  enough  to  roll;  cut  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Broiled  Black  Bass — Scale,  draw,  cut  down  the  back  on  the 
inside  on  both  sides  of  the  bone,  remove  bone,  wash  well  and 
dry  thoroughly.  Lay  on  a  broiler  well  greased  with  salt  and  pork, 
broil  flesh  side  first  until  nicely  browned,  which  should  take  about 
twenty  minutes;  turn  and  cook  just  enough  to  crisp  the  skin; 
lay  on  a  warm  platter,  season  with  one  teaspoon  of  butter  and 
saltspoon  of  salt,  garnish  with  thin  slice  of  lemon  and  parsley. 

Cucumbers — Cut  off  an  inch  from  each  end  of  the  cucumber 
and  pare  off  a  thick  paring,  as  a  bitter  juice  lies  near  the  skin. 
Cut  in  thin  slices;  keep  in  cold  water  until  ready  to  serve.  Drain 
and  place  in  the  bowl  with  ice.  Serve  with  salt,  pepper  and  vine- 
gar. 

Chocolate  Cream — Scald  one  pint  of  milk,  add  one  ounce  of 
grated  chocolate  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Then  add 
one-half  a  box  of  gelatine  which  has  been  dissolved  and  strained, 
then  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  five  eggs.  Set  in  a  pan  of  ice  wa- 
ter and  stir  often  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Mold.  Serve  with 
cream.    The  whites  of  the  eggs  can  be  used  for  clearing  coffee. 

Mrs.   H.    M.    Avers. 

Box  31,  Riverside,  Cook  County,  111. 


SATURDAY,  JUNE  THE  TWENTY-SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries. 

Ham  croquettes.  Muffins. 

Hominy  griddle  cakes.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Scalloped  tomatoes.  Bread  and  butter. 

Baked  berry  rolls. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Duchess  soup. 

Beef  roulette.  Brown  ipashed  potatoes. 

Pickles.  Green  peas. 

Strawberry  sponge. 

Coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  291 

Hominy  Griddle  Cakes — To  a  pint  of  warm  boiled  hominy 
add  a  pint  of  milk  or  water  and  a  pint  of  flour.  Beat  two  or  three 
eggs  and  stir  into  the  batter  with  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Fry 
as  any  other  griddle  cakes.    They  are  delicious. 

Baked  Berry  Rolls — One  pint  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing powder,  one  scant  tablespoonful  butter,  one  cup  milk,  one 
pint  berries.  Sift  flour  with  the  baking  powder.  Rub  in  the 
butter  and  mix  with  the  milk  a  dough  as  soft  as  you  can  handle. 
Roll  out  half  an  inch  thick;  cut  in  squares  and  spread  over  with 
berries;  double  the  crust  over  and  fasten  the  edges.  Put  the 
rolls  in  a  baking  pan  close  together,  then  put  into  the  pan  a 
little  butter,  sugar  and  water  mixture.  Serve  hot  with  any  of 
the  pudding  sauces. 

Duchess  Soup — One  quart  of  milk,  two  large  onions,  three 
eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese.  Put  milk  on  to  boil.  Fry  the 
butter  and  onions  together  for  eight  minutes,  then  add  dry  flour 
and  cook  two  minutes  longer,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  Stir  into 
the  milk  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Rub  through  a  strainer  and  re- 
turn to  the  fire.  Now  add  the  cheese.  Beat  the  eggs  with  a 
speck  of  pepper  and  salt.  Season  the  soup  with  the  salt  and  pep- 
per. Hold  the  colander  over  the  soup  and  pour  the  eggs  through 
and  set  back  for  three  minutes  where  it  will  not  boil.  Then  serve. 
The  cheese  may  be  omitted  if  this  is  not  liked. 

Strawberry  Sponge — One  quart  of  strawberries,  half  a  pack- 
age of  gelatine,  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  water,  one  cupful  sugar, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  the  whites  of  four  eggs.  Soak  the  gelatine 
two  hours  in  half  a  cupful  of  the  water.  Mash  the  strawberries, 
and  add  half  the  sugar  to  them.  Boil  the  remainder  of  the  sugar 
and  the  cupful  of  water  gently  twenty  minutes.  Rub  the  straw- 
berries through  a  sieve.  Add  the  gelatine  to  the  boiling  sirup, 
and  take  from  the  fire  immediately;  then  add  the  straw- 
-berries.  Place  in  a  pan  of  ice  water  and  beat  five  min- 
utes. Add  the  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  until  the  mixture 
begins  to  thicken.  Pour  into  the  molds  and  set  away  to  harden. 
Serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  Ada  White. 

Harvard,  111. 


SUNDAY,  JUNE  THE  TWENTY-SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Red  raspberries. 

Frizzled  beef  with  cream  toast. 

French  fried   potatoes. 

Graham  biscuit  and  coffee. 


292  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Broiled  eggplant.  Bread  and  butter. 

Pineapple  omelet.  Bicycle  buns. 

Tea,  hot  or  iced. 

DINNER. 

Green-pea  soup. 

Boiled   leg  of  lamb,  mint  sauce. 

Green  peas.  Riced  potatoes. 

Meringue  sago  pudding. 

Cafe   noir. 


Frizzled  Beef  with  Cream  Toast — Place  one-half  pound  of 
chipped  dried  beef  in  a  spider  (or  flat  saucepan)  and  pour  over 
it  one  quart  of  cold  water;  let  it  come  to  boil;  pour  off  the  water 
(this  freshens  the  beef  sufficiently);  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  quarter-saltspoon  of  white  pepper,  and  cook  one  minute. 
Have  ready  toasted  half-dozen  small  slices  of  bread.  Make  a 
cream  of  one  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  brought 
to  a  boil  in  double  boiler,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch, 
wet  with  milk;  let  boil  four  minutes;  pour  over  the  toast  on  hot 
dish.  Add  the  frizzled  beef,  placing  a  large  spoonful  on  each 
slice — or  can  be  served  apart. 

Pineapple  Omelet  (new) — Beat  five  eggs  and  five  tablespoons 
of  cold  water  together  in  a  bowl;  when  light  add  two  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt;  pour  into  flat  spider,  and  as  it 
cooks  gently  lift  in  places  with  a  four-tined  fork  till  cooked. 
Shred  fine  five  or  six  slices  of  fresh  pineapple,  adding  sugar  to 
taste.  After  the  omelet  is  removed  to  hot  platter,  place  upon  it 
the  shredded  pineapple  and  fold  over  and  serve.    Delicious. 

Bicycle  Buns — Over  one  pint  of  finely  sifted  wheat  flour  pour 
one-half  pint  of  boiling  water;  stir  into  it  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  softened  butter.  When  all  are  thor- 
oughly mixed  add  one-half  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  which  has 
been  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  of  lukewarm  water.  Set  this 
sponge  to  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning  knead  and  roll  out 
the  dough  to  about  one-half  inch  in  thickness,  cut  with  round 
cooky  cutter,  then  with  case-knife  cut  strips  toward  the  center, 
making  "wheels;"  connect  two  of  the  buns  with  small  strip  of 
dough,  making  imitations  of  bicycles;  brush  over  with  melted 
butter,  let  rise  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes.  If 
carefully  prepared  these  buns  are  an  ornament  to  the  table,  as 
well  as  being  very  toothsome. 

Green-Pea  Soup — Wash  well  the  pods  from  the  half-peck  of 
shelled  peas  for  dinner  and  boil  them  for  fifteen  minutes  with  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  salt  in  two  quarts  of  water,  then  remove  them 
from  the  kettle,  and  add  the  water  in  which  the  lamb  (also  for 
dinner)  has  been  boiled;  let  cook  until  the  liquor  is  reduced  to 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  293 

three  pints.  Season  with  tablespoonful  of  butter  rubbed  into 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  quarter-teaspoon  of  pepper.  This 
soup  is  very  nice,  combining  the  taste  of  the  lamb  and  peas,  and 
also  it  is  economical,  as  it  utilizes  what  many  people  would  throw 
away. 

Meringue  Sago  Pudding — Take  two-thirds  teacup  of  sago — 
wash  and  pick  over  carefully.  Place  in  saucepan  with  one  quart 
of  milk,  to  which  has  been  added  a  half -spoonful  of  salt;  place 
where  it  will  warm  very  slowly,  and  let  it  stand  one  hour,  sim- 
mering very  gently.  When  softened  sufllciently  (as  it  will  be 
by  that  time)  remove  from  fire  and  when  cool  add  four  well- 
beaten  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs  (reserving  the  whites  of 
the  other  two  eggs  for  meringue),  half-tablespoon  of  butter,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  teacup  of  cold  milk.  Flavor  with 
one  teaspoonful  vanilla;  bake  one-half  hour  in  moderate  oven. 
When  done  and  cool  beat  up  the  two  whites  of  eggs  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  till  firm;  place  on  the  pudding 
and  put  back  in  the  oven  and  let  brown  slightly  on  top. 

Mrs.  R.  W.  Boyd. 

No.  15  West  Church  street,  Adrian,  Mich. 


MONDAY,  JUNE  THE  TWENTY-EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cherries. 

Spanish  mackerel. 

Sliced  cucumbers. 

Rice  muflSns.  Sliced  bread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Clam  fritters. 

Sliced  tomatoes. 

Vienna  rolls.  Honey  cake. 

Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Green-pea  soup. 

Broiled  steak. 

New  potatoes.  Summer  squash. 

Pineapple  sponge,  with  custard. 


Cherries — Wash  one  quart  of  cherries  carefully  and  serve 
piled  upon  a  lump  of  ice  in  a  glass  dish. 

Cucumber  Salad — Pare  three  cucumbers  and  lay  in  a  bowl  in 
ice  water  one  hour.    Do  the  same  with  one  onion  in  another 


294  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

bowl.  Then  slice  and  arrange  in  salad  bowl.  Season  with  one- 
fourth  teacup  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-eighth  tea- 
spoon of  pepper. 

Spanish  Mackerel  (broiled) — Clean,  wash  and  wipe  dry.  Split 
so  when  laid  flat  the  backbone  will  be  in  the  middle.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  lay  inside  down  upon  a  buttered  gridiron  over  a 
clear  fire  until  it  is  colored,  then  turn.  When  done  put  upon  a 
hot  dish  and  butter  well. 

Rice  Muffins — Two  cups  of  boiled  rice,  one  pint  of  flour,  one 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 
of  Royal  baking  powder,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs. 
Dilute  rice  free  from  lumps  with  milk  and  beaten  eggs,  sift  to- 
gether flour,  salt,  sugar  and  yeast  powder,  add  to  rice  prepara- 
tion, mix  smooth,  rather  firm  batter;  muffin  pans  must  be  cold 
and  well  greased;  then  fill  two-thirds  full  and  bake  in  hot  oven 
fifteen  minutes. 

Clam  Fritters — Twenty-five  large  clams;  dry  them  in  a  nap- 
kin, cut  them  in  two;  one  pint  of  fiour  to  which  add  two  well- 
beaten  eggs,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  and  nearly  as  much  clam 
liquor;  beat  until  free  from  lumps,  then  stir  in  clams.  Put  lard 
in  frying  pan,  heat  to  boiling,  then  drop  in  batter  by  spoonfuls. 
Fry  them  on  one  side,  then  turn  and  fry 'the  other. 

Vienna  Rolls — One  quart  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful 
of  lard,  one  pint  of  milk.  Sift  together  flour,  salt  and  powder, 
rub  in  cold  lard,  add  milk  and  mix  into  a  smooth  dough,  easily 
handled  without  sticking  to  hands  or  bowl.  Flour  board,  turn 
out  dough  and  give  it  a  quick  knead,  then  roll  out  with  a  roll- 
ing pin  to  thickness  of  one-half  inch,  cut  with  large  round  cutter, 
fold  one-half  over  the  other,  lay  in  greased  pan,  do  not  let  them 
touch.     Bake  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Honey  Cake — Half-cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half 
cup  of  honey,  one  pint  of  fiour,  one  teaspoon  of  yeast  powder,  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  caraway  seeds.  Mix  honey  and  sugar;  add 
the  butter,  melted;  the  eggs  slightly  beaten,  the  fiour  sifted  with 
the  yeast  powder  and  the  seeds.  Mix  into  a  smooth  batter  and 
bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  thirty-five  minutes. 

Summer  Squash — Three  squashes,  pared  and  quartered.  Cook 
until  tender  in  boiling  water,  then  drain  off  water  and  mash 
through  a  colander;  to  one  pint  add  one  tablespoon  of  butter, 
two  tablespoons  of  milk,  one  saltspoon  of  salt  and  a  sprinkle  of 
pepper. 

Pineapple  Sponge — One  grated  pineapple,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one-half  package  of  gelatine,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  cold  water, 
whites  of  four  eggs.  Soak  gelatine  for  two  hours  in  one-half 
cup  of  water,  put  pineapple,  sugar  and  remainder  of  water  in  a 
saucepan,  simmer  ten  minutes;  add  the  gelatine;  take  from  fire 
at  once;  pour  into  a  dish;  when  partially  cooled  add  the  whites 
of  eggs  well  beaten;  beat  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken, 
pour  into  a  mold  and  set  away  to  harden.  Then  take  one  pint  of 
milk,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  one-eighth  pound  of  loaf  sugar;   put 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  295 

milk  on  in  a  boiler;  when  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point  strain 
and  add  the  sugar  and  yolks  beaten  light;  beat  well,  return  to 
fire  and  stir  constantly  one  way  until  it  thickens;  flavor  with 
orange  or  vanilla  and  serve  with  the  pineapple  sponge  when  cold. 

Hilda  Lewis. 
No.  2815  Q  Street,  Washington,  D.  C. 


TUESDAY,  JUNE  THE   TWENTY-NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Blackberries. 

Ham  toast.  Potato  puff. 

Indian  griddle  cakes.  Maple  sirup. 

Breakfast  cocoa. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cold   boiled   corned   beef,   sliced. 

Cold  slaw.  Cracknels. 

Cherry  nectar.  Iced  tea. 

DINNER. 

Soup  with   egg  drops. 

Veal  cutlets.  Cauliflower  salad. 

Steamed  sweet  potatoes. 

Strawberry  ice  cream.  Sponge  cake. 

Coffee, 


Indian  Griddle  Cakes— One  cupful  of  Indian  meal,  one  of 
flour,  three  of  boiling  milk,  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt, 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  brown 
sugar.  Have  the  milk  boiling  and  gradually  pour  it  on  the  meal. 
Sift  the  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder  together.  When 
the  scalded  milk  is  cool  add^  to  it  the  flour  and  the  eggs,  well- 
beaten.    Bake  on  hot  griddle  and  serve  with  maple  sirup. 

Cold  Slaw — Take  a  small  cabbage,  about  two  pounds,  and  flve 
or  six  stalks  of  celery  (the  large,  outside  stalks  will  do);  chop 
both  flne  and  mix  together.  Season  with  one  teaspoonful  salt, 
a  few  dashes  of  pepper  and  half  a  pint  of  good  white-wine  vine- 
gar poured  over  the  whole. 

Cherry  Nectar— Take  two  boxes  of  sour  cherries,  stone  them 
and  boil  for  half  an  hour  in  a  quart  of  water.  Strain  them  out 
and  boil  the  juice  with  one  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice 
for  flfteen  minutes;  then  put  in  the  cherries  and  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes  more.     Serve  cold. 

Soup  with  Egg  Drops— Work  one  teacupful  of  flour  with  milk 
into  a  smooth  paste;  into  this  beat  three  whole  eggs,  one  after  the 


296  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

other;  add  half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and  as  much  milk  as  will  re- 
duce the  paste  to  the  consistency  of  batter.  This  is  allowed  to 
fall,  drop  by  drop,  into  three  quarts  of  strong  boiling  soup  stock, 
taking  care  to  stir  it  gently  while  doing  so.  If  the  soup  is  now 
boiled  five  minutes  longer  it  is  ready  to  be  dished. 

Veal  Cutlets — One  and  a  half  pounds  of  cutlets,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  slice  of  carrot  and  a  small  slice  of  onion. 
Put  the  butter  and  vegetables,  cut  fine,  into  a  saucepan.  Season 
the  cutlets  with  salt  and  pepper  and  lay  them  on  the  butter  and 
vegetables,  cover  tightly  and  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour;  then 
take  up  and  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  fat 
till  golden  brown. 

Cauliflower  Salad — Boil  one  large  cauliflower  with  two  quarts 
of  water  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  for  half  an  hour  or  longer. 
Take  up  and  strain.  When  cold  divide  into  small  tufts,  arrange 
in  center  of  a  dish;  pour  over  it  a  salad  dressing  or  a  cupful  of 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  immediately.  For  the  salad  dress- 
ing put  into  the  bottom  of  a  pint  bowl  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg  and 
a  quarter  of  a  saltspoon  of  salt;  stir  in  drop  by  drop  three  table- 
dpoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  one  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  and  a  quar- 
ter-saltspoonful   of  dry  mustard,  stirring  until  smooth. 

Steamed  Sweet  Potatoes— Take  half  a  dozen  medium-sized 
sweet  potatoes  and  steam  until  done.  Remove  and  put  into  a 
pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  a  bit  of  butter  on  each 
and  place  in  the  oven  and  dry  until  slightly  brown. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream — One  quart  of  cream,  one  quart  of 
strawberries,  one  small  pint  sugar.  Mash  the  strawberries  and 
sugar  together  and  let  them  stand  for  an  hour;  then  add  the 
cream,  rub  through  a  strainer  into  the  freezer  and  freeze.  Or  the 
cream  can  be  made  and  when  half  frozen  the  whole  berries  be 
stirred  in.  Miss  H.  F.  Sloane. 

No.  522  East  Costilla  street,  Colorado  Springs,  Col. 


WEDNESDAY,  JUNE  THE  THIRTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Red  raspberries. 

Eggs  brouille.  Rice  muflSns. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Marbled  veal.  Potato  puff. 

Summer  salad. 

Coffee  cake.  Russian  tea. 


THIS  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  ^9? 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  toast  soup. 

Halibut,  Creole  style.  Small  potatoes. 

Minced  lettuce.  Spinach,  German  style. 

Cherry  pudding. 

Cherry  sauce.  Cocoa. 


Marbled  Veal— Take  any  pieces  of  cold  cooked  veal,  season 
palatably,  and  pound  fine  in  a  mortar.  Skin  a  cold  boiled 
tongue,  cut  it  up  and  pound  to  a  paste,  adding  to  it  its  own  bulk 
of  butter.  Put  alternate  layers  of  the  veal  and  tongue  into  a  pot; 
press  down  hard  and  pour  one-fourth  cup  clarified  butter  on 
top.    It  cuts  prettily,  like  veined  marble. 

Cream  of  Toast  Soup — Heat  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
butter  in  a  deep  frying  pan,  break  two  large  slices  of  bread  in 
small  pieces  and  let  them  toast  in  the  hot  butter,  then  add 
one  small  tablespoonful  of  fiour;  stir  in  the  pan  till  flour  is  brown; 
pour  in  slowly  while  stirring  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  one 
pint  hot  milk;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  three  dashes  of 
pepper;  add  two  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs  and  pour  into  a  soup 
tureen.    Light  and  simple-. 

Halibut  (Creole  style) — Get  a  thick,  square  piece  of  halibut 
or  other  fish,  if  preferred.  Wash  it  and  lay  it  on  a  baking  dish. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Chop  a  clove  of  white  garlic  about 
the  size  of  a  bean  and  strew  over  the  fish,  then  put  on  a  cup  of 
canned  or  fresh  tomato.  Bake  until  the  flakes  separate.  Dish  up 
without  breaking.  Mrs.  Robert  Schueler. 

No.  684  S.  California  avenue,  Chicago. 


THURSDAY,  JULY  THE  FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Raspberries. 

Graham  porridge,  cream  and  sugar. 

Fried  trout.  Lettuce. 

Milk  toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Fricassee  of  cold  meat.  Cucumbers  pickled. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Sweet  strawberry  shortcake. 

Chocolate. 


298  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Chicken  stew,  with  dumplings.  Baked  potatoes. 

Stewed  green  corn. 

Raspberry  and  currant  ice  cream. 

Tea. 


Graham  Porridge — Three  cups  boiling  water  in  a  kettle  over 
the  fire,  put  in  one-half  teaspoonful  salt;  stir  in  gradually  nearly 
one-third  pint  graham  flour,  let  it  boil  thoroughly  after  each 
handful  of  flour,  so  that  it  is  kept  constantly  boiling.  Serve  with 
cream  and  sugar. 

Fried  Trout — They  should  be  well  cleaned,  washed  once  only, 
drained  and  salted  with  about  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  then 
rolled  in  flour  and  cornmeal  (half  of  each)  thoroughly  mixed. 
For  two  pounds  of  flsh  take  one-fourth  pound  of  salt  pork,  cut 
in  thin  slices  and  fried  a  crisp  brown.  Take  the  pork  from  the 
pan  and  put  the  fish  in,  having  only  enough  to  cover  the  bottom..' 
Fry  brown  on  both  sides;  serve  hot,  with  the  salt  pork  as  a  garn- 
ish. 

Fricassee  of  Cold  Meat — Take  one  and  one-half  pints  of  cold 
meat  of  any  kind,  one  pint  of  warm  water,  one  teaspoonful  meat 
extract,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  salt,  three  dashes  of  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of 
onion  juice,  if  desired;  slice  the  meat;  season  it  with  salt;  put 
the  butter  into  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire;  when  hot  add  the 
fiour,  stirring  until  smooth  and  brown;  draw  the  pan  to  a  cooler 
place  and  gradually  add  the  water,  stirring  all  the  time;  add 
the  extract;  put  over  the  fire  again;  add  the  pepper  and  onion 
juice;  simmer  five  minutes;  add  the  cold  meat  and  cook  three 
minutes  longer;  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  border  of  toast. 

Cucumbers  Pickled — Take  as  small-sized  cucumbers  as  can 
be  obtained  in  market,  a  small  quantity,  a  dozen  or  two,  as  they 
are  not  intended  for  long  keeping;  put  them  in  strong  salted 
water  over  night;  take  out  of  the  brine,  wipe  dry  and  cover  with 
strong  vinegar;  in  two  or  three  days  they  are  ready  for  use. 

Sweet  Strawberry  Shortcake — Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of 
sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Beat  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  together,  add  the  eggs,  well-beaten,  and  the  milk. 
Mix  the  powder  with  the  flour  and  sift;  stir  into  the  beaten  eggs 
and  sugar;  make  stiff  enough  to  roll  out  about  one-quarter  inch 
thick.  Bake  in  four  deep  tins.  Have  three  pints  of  strawber- 
ries mixed  with  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  spread  between  the  cakes 
and  on  the  top.  A  meringue,  made  with  the  white  of  one  egg 
beaten  and  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  may  be  spread 
over  the  top  layer  of  berries. 

Chocolate — Scrape  fine  one  ounce  (one  of  the  small  squares) 
of  plain  chocolate,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  put  in  a 


THE  CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  299 

small  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  water;  stir  over  a 
hot  fire  for  a  minute  or  two,  until  it  is  perfectly  smooth  and 
glossy,  and  then  stir  it  all  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  or  half 
milk  and  half  water.  Mix  thoroughly  and  serve  at  once  with 
cream.  Made  in  this  way  chocolate  is  perfectly  smooth  and  free 
of  oily  particles,  and  is  of  fine  flavor. 

Chicken  Stew,  with  Dumplings — One  chjcken,  weighing  about 
three  pounds;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  three  of  flour,  one 
small  onion,  if  liked,  three  slices  of  carrot,  three  of  turnip,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  dashes  of  pepper.  Cut  the  chicken  in 
pieces  suitable  for  serving,  wash  and  put  on  to  boil  in  a  kettle 
with  three  pints  of  boiling  water.  Put  the  carrot,  turnip  and 
onion,  cut  fine,  in  a  saucepan  with  the  butter  and  cook  slowly 
half  an  hour,  stirring  often;  take  up  the  vegetables  in  a  strainer 
and  with  the  back  of  a  spoon  mash  as  much  as  possible  of  them 
through  into  the  kettle;  skim  two  spoonfuls  of  chicken  fat  from 
the  water  and  put  in  the  pan  where  the  vegetables  were  cooked; 
when  boiling  hot  stir  into  it  the  flour  until  it  is  a  dark  brown, 
then  add  to  the  chicken  broth  with  the  pepper  and  salt  and  sim- 
mer until  tender,  which  will  take  about  two  hours  for  a  year-old 
chicken.  Twenty  minutes  before  serving  put  the  kettle  over  the 
fire,  boil  up  and  put  in  the  dumplings  and  cook  twenty  minutes; 
serve  with  the  dumplings  around  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

For  the  dumplings  take  one  and  one-half  teacupfuls  of  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one-saltspoonful  of  salt,  sifted 
together,  with  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  smooth  batter,  toler- 
ably thick  so  it  will  drop  from  a  spoon. 

Stewed  Green  Corn — Half  a  dozen  medium-'Sized  ears  of  corn 
(more  if  small),  clean,  split  down  the  center  of  the  grains  and 
scrape  off  the  cobs;  boil  uncovered  in  a  quart  of  water  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Then  add  two  dashes  of  pepper,  a  heaping 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  one-half 
cup  of  milk;    boil  five  minutes  and  serve. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Ice  Cream — Take  one  quart  of  red 
raspberries  and  one  pint  of  white  currants,  rub  them  through  a 
strainer  and  add  one  pint  of  sugar  and  let  stand  one-half  hour; 
add  one  quart  of  cream  and  freeze.     Serve  with  cake. 

Mrs.  L.  E.  Sloane. 

No.  522  East  Costilla  street,  Colorado  Springs,  Col. 


FRIDAY,  JULY  THE  SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Iced  raspberries. 

Barley  crystals.  Cream  and  sugar. 

Something  for  breakfast. 

Coffee. 


300  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Eggs  in  cases.  Sliced  tomatoes. 

Japanese  fritters.  Iced  cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Normandy  soup. 

Baked  blue  fish.        New  potatoes.        Cucumbers. 

Marguerite  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Something  for  Breakfast — An  economical  way  of  using  ham, 
or  bacon  and  eggs  that  have  been  left  from  a  previous  meal,  is  to 
put  them  in  a  wooden  bowl  and  chop  them  quite  fine,  adding 
a  little  mashed  or  cold  chopped  potato,  and  a  little  bacon  gravy, 
if  there  was  any  left.  Mix  and  form  into  flat  cakes,  dip  in  raw 
egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  a  spider,  a  light  brown  on 
both  sides;   serve  hot. 

Eggs  in  Cases — Take  six  small  rolls,  cut  off  the  tops  and 
scrape  out  as  much  of  the  crumb  as  possible.  Brush  over  well  with 
melted  butter  and  set  in  a  quick  oven  long  enough  to  crisp  them. 
In  the  meantime,  break  in  a  bowl  six  eggs,  beat  just  enough  to 
mix,  add  six  tablespoonfuls  milk  or  cream,  one-half  teaspoonful 
salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of 
grated  Sapsago  cheese,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  butter.  Stir  over 
the  fire  until  the  consistence  of  a  soft  scramble,  fill  the  cases  and 
serve  at  once. 

Japanese  Fritters — Beat  together  two  eggs  until  well  mixed, 
add  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  pint  of  milk, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Cut  stale  bread  in  fingers  four  by 
two  inches  in  size;  soak  them  well  in  the  custard,  roll  in  dry 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat;  when  nicely  browned,  drain 
and  serve  with  powdered  sugar. 

Normandy  Soup — Wipe  off  a  good-sized  knuckle  of  veal,  put 
it  in  the  soup  kettle  with  three  quarts  of  cold  water  and  place 
where  it  will  heat  slowly.  When  at  the  simmering  point  skim 
carefully  and  put  where  it  will  cook  slowly  but  steadily  for  three 
hours.  Add  six  white  onions  peeled  and  thinly  sliced  and  one- 
half  of  a  small  stale  loaf  of  baker's  bread  and  simmer  one  hour 
longer.  Take  out  the  meat,  and  rub  the  soup  through  a  puree 
sieve,  pressing  through  as  much  of  the  onion  and  bread  as  possi- 
ble. Put  in  a  double  boiler;  rub  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  and  stir  into  the 
hot  mixture  until  it  thickens.  Season  with  a  large  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  a  fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  a  half  salt- 
spoonful  of  grated  nutmeg;  add  one  pint  of  milk  previously 
scalded,   and  serve  at  once. 

Baked  Blue  Fish — Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  pars- 
ley, three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt, 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  301 

one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  and  a  beaten  egg. 
Stuff  the  fish  and  tie  securely.  Place  in  a  pan,  with  a  teacupful 
of  hot  water  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  bake  an  hour 
and  a  quarter,  basting  very  often.  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon, 
or  bits  of  cress,  and  serve  with  a  sauce  made  as  follows: 

Dressing  for  Blue  Fish — Boil  up  the  gravy  in  which  fish  was 
baked,  put  in  a  large  tablespoonful  of  catsup,  a  tablespoonful  of 
brown  flour  wet  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.    Strain  and  serve  in  a  sauce  boat. 

Marguerite  Pudding — Scald  one  quart  of  milk  in  a  double 
boiler.  Beat  together  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  the 
yolks  of  flve  eggs,  one  saltspoonf ul  of  salt  and  one-half  cupful 
of  cold  milk.  Pour  the  scalded  milk  over  the  mixture  and  re- 
turn to  the  fire;  stir  until  it  thickens,  beating  until  smooth. 
Cook  fifteen  minutes,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Turn  into  a  pudding  dish;  when  cool 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  add  five  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar  and  beat  until  very  stiff  and  glossy.  Spread  over 
the  top  of  the  pudding,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  put  in  the 
oven  until   a  delicate   brown.     Serve   cold. 

Mrs.  Marion  C.  Wilson. 

No.   6407  Lexington  avenue,  Chicago. 


SATURDAY,  JULY  THE  THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cherries  on  stem,  powdered  sugar. 

Fairy  omelet. 

Fried  tomatoes,  with  cream. 

Brown  bread.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Radishes. 

Chicken  and  rice  croquettes. 

Thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter. 

Shredded  pineapple.  Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Braised  tongue. 

Small  new  potatoes  in  cream.  Peas. 

Sliced  cucumbers. 

Raspberry  shortcake.  Coffee. 


Fairy  Omelet — Beat  six  eggs  separately;  to  the  yolks  add  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk.     Heat  pan  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  pour 


302  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

in,  slipping  the  beaten  whites  last  on  top.  Cover  for  a  minute. 
Season  with  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper. 
When  done  serve  on  platter,  letting  the  whites  and  yellow  parts 
alternate,  with  a  garnish  of  green. 

Pried  Tomatoes,  with  Cream — Cut  six  large,  firm  tomatoes  in 
halves,  without  peeling  lay  them  in  a  pan,  with  a  large  tablespoon- 
ful  of  melted  butter,  having  the  skin  side  down.  Fry  them  very 
slowly  until  quite  tender,  then  place  them  carefully  on  a  hot  dish 
and  let  the  butter  remaining  in  the  pan  brown  a  little,  then  stir  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  into  it.  When  this  is  brown  add  to  it  half 
a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  stir  and  blend 
until  smooth.  Stir  all  and  boil  three  minutes,  then  pour  it  over 
the  tomatoes,  first  adding  a  dash  of  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  salt 
to  each  piece. 

Chicken  and  Rice  Croquettes — An  excellent  way  of  serving 
chicken  bits  left  from  dinner  the  day  before  is  to  cut  all  the  meat 
carefully  from  the  bones,  chop  fine,  and  to  each  cupful  of  the 
chicken  add  a  cupful  of  boiled  rice,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  a  little  pep- 
per and  an  egg.  Set  the  milk  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils 
add  the  other  ingredients,  the  egg,  thoroughly  beaten,  last  of 
all.  Stir  the  mixture  one  minute.  When  it  has  cooled  take  about 
a  tablespoonful  and  with  both  hands  press  the  mass  lightly  into 
an  oblong  roll.  When  the  whole  quantity  has  been  shaped,  roll 
the  croquettes  lightly  in  bread  crumbs,  then  dip  them  in  well- 
beaten  egg,  roll  a  second  time  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  until  brown 
in  boiling  fat.  Two  or  three  minutes  will  suflice.  Be  sure  that 
the  fat  is  boiling  before  the  croquettes  are  put  in. 

Raspberry  Shortcake — Rub  into  one  quart  of  fiour  five  ounces 
of  lard,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
add  gradually  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough,  divide  it  into 
four  parts.  Roll  one  part  out  lightly,  cover  a  straight-sided  pie 
plate  with  it.  Roll  out  another  one  and  lay  it  on  top  of  the  first; 
proceed  the  same  way  with  the  other  two  parts,  using  another 
tin  for  them;  bake  quickly,  and  when  done,  while  hot,  lift  the 
upper  part  from  each  pan.  Butter  the  inner  surface  and  place 
between  them  a  layer  of  fresh  raspberries  one  inch  thick  (sweet- 
ened).   Serve  with  cream. 

Shredded  Pineapple — In  the  morning  carefully  prepare  a 
small  pineapple.  Pare  carefully  and  remove  every  particle  of  the 
brown  skin.  Then  with  a  silver  fork  tear  in  small  ragged  pieces, 
discarding  the  core.  Sprinkle  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  set  away  in  refrigerator  until  luncheon  time. 

Braised  Tongue — Too  little  known  or  too  seldom  attempted 
is  the  process  of  braising,  and  it  is  one  of  the  most  savory  ways 
of  cooking  a  tongue.  Wash  a  fresh  tongue  and  cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  and  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Simmer  slowly 
for  tv»ro  and  one-half  hours  if  large,  two  if  small;  then  take  it 
out,  remove  the  skin,  and  trim  off  anything  that  may  look  rag- 
ged about  the  thick  end.  Then  thrust  the  point  of  a  skewer 
through  the  tip  of  the  tongue,  turn  the  thick  part  of  the  tongue 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  303 

inward,  hold  it  firmly  so  until  the  top  is  lapped  around  and  the 
skewer  driven  through  both;  then  take  a  piece  of  muslin — part 
of  a  well-washed  flour  sack  will  do — and  cut  a  strip  just  as  wide 
as  the  tongue;  bind  this  firmly  around  the  tongue  and  tie  with 
twine.  Set  this  aside  while  the  vegetables  are  being  fried.  Have 
these  prepared  while  the  tongue  is  boiling.  Brown  in  the  braising 
pan  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  toss  in  one  small  car- 
rot, two  medium-sized  onions,  one  medium-sized  potato,  one  small 
turnip,  all  sliced;  one  bay  leaf,  a  small  stalk  of  celery  and  two 
sprigs  of  parsley.  Stir  these  together  over  a  brisk  fire  till  they 
look  glossy,  taking  care  that  they  do  not  scorch,  and  add  one 
quart  of  beef  stock.  If  this  is  not  convenient  use  one  quart  of  the 
water  in  which  the  tongue  was  boiled.  Put  the  tongue  in  with  the 
broth  and  vegetables;  cover  and  bake.  Occasionally  turn  the 
tongue  and  stir  up  the  vegetables  from  the  bottom.  At  the  end 
of  two  hours  take  out  the  tongue,  untie  the  twine,  take  off  the 
cloth  and  remove  the  skewer.  Place  the  tongue  on  a  pie  plate 
or  in  a  dripping  pan  and  put  on  the  upper  grate  of  the  oven  to 
brown;  rub  the  vegetables  and  broth  through  a  sieve  into  a 
saucepan;  put  on  a  hot  part  of  the  stove  and  boil  rapidly  until 
reduced  to  about  a  pint.  Blend  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with 
a  cupful  of  tomato  juice,  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
scant  dessertspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Stir  into  the  re- 
duced broth  and  boil  up  sharply;  remove  the  tongue  to  a  platter. 
Pour  this  thick,  brown,  altogether  delicious  sauce  over  it; 
sprinkle  all  with  shredded  fresh  parsley,  garnished  with  thinly 
sliced  lemon,  and  serve  at  once.  When  this  has  once  been  suc- 
cessfully prepared  (and  failure  is  impossible  if  the  directions  are 
follov/ed)  the  dish  is  sure  to  become  a  favorite  one.  The  labor 
is  really  far  less  than  one  would  suppose  from  reading  the  recipe. 
Alterations  of  seasoning  may  be  made  to  suit  individual  tastes. 
For  instance,  a  pinch  of  thyme  may  be  used,  or  a  fourth  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  curry  powder.  Celery  salt  may  take  the  place  of 
celery.  A  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catchup  to  a  little  of  the  broth 
will  do  if  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes  cannot  be  had. 

The  tongue  that  is  left  over  will  do  nicely  for  lunch  the  next 
day.  Nannie  K.  Van  Keuren. 

No.  412  South  Boulevard,  Oak  Park,  111.   . 


MEALS  FOR  THE  GLORIOUS  FOURTH. 
(Menus  in  Red  and  White.) 


BREAKFAST. 

Red  and  white  currants. 

Farina  molds,  sugar  and  cream. 

Sliced  tomatoes   (iced). 

Fried  perch.  Salem  muffins. 

Coffee. 


304  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK    BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Sardine  sandwiches.  French  pickle. 

Salad  of  '76. 

Snowballs.  Red  raspberries. 

Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Consomme  a  I'lndependence. 

Roast  lamb,  mint  sauce. 

New  potatoes.  Telephone  peas. 

Cucumber  fritters. 

Cherry  roll,  fruit  sauce. 

After-dinner  coffee. 


Farina  Molds — Mix  three  tablespoonfuls  of  farina  with  three- 
quarters  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  half  cupful  of  milk  (taken  from 
full  pint).  Heat  the  rest  of  the  milk  with  a  pint  of  water  till 
they  boil  and  stir  in  the  farina  mixture.  Cook  slowly  for  a  half 
hour,  pour  into  jelly  glasses,  filling  each  half  full,  and  stand  on 
ice  over  night.    Serve  in  the  morning  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Fried  Perch — Be  sure  the  fish  are  fresh.  Lay  the  fish  on  a 
board  (outdoors  if  possible),  take  a  dull  knife,  and,  holding  fish 
by  the  tail,  with  knife  held  nearly  flat,  scrape  toward  the  head. 
See  that  they  are  perfectly  cleaned;  thoroughly  rinse  and  dry, 
then  roll  lightly  in  flour.  Use  beef  fat  for  frying  if  you  have  it, 
if  not  use  lard,  but  never  butter  for  fish,  as  the  color  is  never  so 
good.  Be  sure  that  your  fat  is  at  the  proper  temperature  before 
putting  in  your  fish.  If  not  sufiiciently  experienced  to  tell  when 
the  boiling  point  is  reached  drop  in  a  bit  of  bread.  If  it  browns 
in  a  minute  the  fat  is  at  the  proper  heat.  As  soon  as  the  fish 
is  browned  on  both  sides  move  your  pan  to  the  back  of  the  stove, 
cover  and  let  cook  slowly.  Serve  on  hot  platter  garnished  with 
sprigs  of  parsley. 

Sardine  Sandwiches — Take  the  contents  of  a  half-pound  box 
of  sardines,  remove  bones  and  skin  and  chop  them  fine.  Add  two 
eggs,  hard-boiled,  chopped  and  seasoned  with  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful of  French  mustard  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  grated  horse- 
radish. Mix  this  well  together  and  spread  between  thin  slices 
of  buttered  bread  or  cold  biscuits. 

Salem  Mufiins — One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  half  cup  of 
cornmeal,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  level  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  two  eggs,  and  one  cup  (full  measure)  milk, 
half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Sift  together  flour,  corn- 
meal,  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder;  rub  in  the  butter,  add  the 
eggs,  well  beaten,  milk  and  cinnamon.  Have  the  griddle  well 
heated,  grease  it,  lay  on  it  the  muffin  rings,  also  greased,  and  half 
fill  them  with  the  batter.  As  soon  as  risen  to  top  of  rings,  turn 
them  over  gently  with  cake  turner;  bake  nice  brown  on  both 
t-ides.    They  should  bake  in  seven  minutes. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  305 

French  Pickle — Slice  in  an  earthen  jar  one  peck  of  green 
tomatoes,  six  large  onions,  and  pour  over  them  one  cup  of  salt. 
Let  stand  twenty-four  hours  and  drain.  Add  one  quart  of  vine- 
gar, three  pounds  of  sugar,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  white  mus- 
tard seed,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one  of  ginger,  two  of 
mustard,  one  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  cook  slowly  for  fifteen 
minutes. 

Salad  of  76 — In  making  this  salad  the  ingredients  must  be 
chopped  separately  and  in  order  given.  One  teaspoonful  of  onion 
chopped  fine  and  measured  after  chopping,  five  good-sized  cold 
boiled  potatoes  (or  enough  to  fill  two  cups  after  they  are  chopped), 
three  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  not  too  fine,  and  the  crisp  ten- 
der leaves  of  two  heads  of  lettuce,  leaving  out  enough  of  the  inner 
leaves  to  line  the  salad  bowl.  Pour  on  a  dressing  made  from 
the  following  recipe,  and  mix  gently  with  a  silver  fork:  Yolks 
of  two  eggs,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  sour  cream  if  you  have  it, 
if  not  use  same  quantity  of  sweet  or  sour  milk  thickened  with  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  tablespoonful  of 
cold  water;  level  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  teaspoonful  of  mixed 
mustard,  half  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half 
a  cup  of  the  best  vinegar.  Mix  thoroughly  and  cook  in  double 
boiler  or  over  the  teakettle  till  it  thickens.  This  dressing  keeps 
well  and  the  quantity  is  sufiicient  for  two  salads  of  the  size  given. 

Snowballs — Cream  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  add  one  cupful 
of  fine  granulated  sugar,  beat  well;  mix  two  level  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder  with  two  cups  of  flour,  add  alternately  with 
one-half  cupful  of  milk;  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  very  stiff 
and  add  lightly.  Pill  buttered  cups  half  full  and  steam  half  an 
hour;  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  The  quantity  will  be  sufiicient 
for  Sunday's  tea  as  well. 

Consomme  a  1'  Independence— The  stock  should  be  made  on 
Friday,  but  the  custard  not  until  Saturday  morning.  Cut  a 
knuckle  of  veal  (10  cents'  worth)  into  four  pieces;  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  lean  ham;  one  large  onion,  or  two  small  ones;  three 
whole  cloves,  one  piece  of  mace,  and,  after  it  begins  to  boil,  a 
saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Put  this  into  the  soup  pot  and  cover 
with  two  quarts  of  cold  water.  Cook  until  the  meat  leaves  the 
bone.  Take  off  the  stove,  strain  through  a  sieve  and  set  in  a  cool 
place  until  morning.  Make  the  custard  as  follows:  Beat  two 
eggs  with  a  spoon,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  one-fourth 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Turn  into  a  buttered  cup  and  place  in 
a  pan  of  warm  water.  Cook  in  slow  oven  until  firm  in  the  center, 
then  set  away  to  cool.  When  ready  to  serve  cut  into  small  pieces, 
put  into  the  tureen  and  pour  over  it  four  cups  of  the  boiling 
stock  diluted  with  one  cup  of  water. 

Roast  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce — As  roast  lamb  with  mint  sauce 
seems  almost  the  national  dish  for  the  Fourth  of  July,  the  most 
economical  plan  (in  fact,  the  only  way  one  can  enjoy  genuine 
roast  lamb  on  this  allowance)  will  be  to  buy  a  fore-quarter 
and  make .  it  answer  for  two  dinners  and  convert  the  rem- 
nants  into    some    savory   breakfast   or    luncheon   dish   on    the 


306  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

third  day.  It  should  be  roasted  in  a  hot  oven,  with  a  cup  of  warm 
water  in  the  pan,  frequently  basted,  and  not  salted  until  nearly 
done,  when  it  should  be  sprinkled  with  a  liberal  teaspoonful. 
Serve  with  mint  sauce  made  with  a  half-cup  of  vinegar  boiled 
with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  then  poured  over  a  level  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  mint  leaves  and  allowed  to  stand  until  it  is 
cold. 

Cucumber  Fritters — Peel  and  grate  three  full-grown,  tender 
cucumbers.  Press  all  the  juice  from  the  pulp  and  add  to  two 
cups  of  the  pulp  half  a  cup  of  cream,  a  cup  of  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper.  Beat  four 
eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately,  very  light,  and  add  to 
the  batter,  which  should  be  very  thick.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of 
boiling  cotosuet  and  drop  in  one  large  spoonful  at  a  time,  remov- 
ing as  soon  as  crisp  and  brown.  Serve  as  you  would  fried  oys- 
ters, which  they  very  much  resemble. 

Cherry  Roll — As  early  as  convenient  in  the  morning  stem 
and  pit  one  box  of  cherries  (those  that  sell  at  the  rate  of  three 
boxes  for  25  cents),  cover  with  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and 
let  them  stand  until  ready  to  use.  Sift  two  cups  of  flour,  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  of  sugar  and  a  quarter- 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  rub  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  mix 
wfth  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk.  Roll  out  into  an  oblong  sheet 
a  half-inch  thick,  spread  with  butter,  then  drain  the  cherries, 
leaving  all  the  juice  for  the  sauce,  lay  them  upon  the  dough, 
sprinkle  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  roll  up  closely  and 
pinch  the  ends  that  the  juice  may  not  escape.  Place  in  a  but- 
tered pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes. 
Add  enough  water  to  the  juice  to  make  a  cup  and  a  half  of  sauce, 
thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful 
of  cold  water,  stir  in  three  level  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  boil 
for  three  minutes. 

These  are  intended  to  be  red  and  white  menus,  since  it  is 
impracticable  to  use  the  other  color  of  our  flag  (blue)  in  arti- 
cles of  food.  The  salad  should  be  garnished  with  rings  of  the 
white  of  a  hard-boiled  egg  and  disks  cut  from  boiled  beets,  while 
the  tiny  flags  sold  at  two  cents  a  dozen  may  be  used  as  table 
decorations  in  connection  with  the  dozens  of  v/hite  sweet  clover 
now  blossoming  so  luxuriously  in  many  of  our  vacant  city  lots. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  Grant. 

No.  414  Orchard  Street,  Chicago,  111. 


MONDAY,  JULY  THE  FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Blackberries  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Baked  eggs. 

Breakfast  biscuit  and  coffee. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  307 

LUNCHEON. 

Cold   corned  beef  sliced  thin. 

Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Red  raspberries  and  cream  cookies. 


DINNER. 

Fried  chicken. 

Flaked  potatoes.        Deviled  tomatoes. 

Green  apple  pie.        Cheese. 

Coffee. 


Breakfast  Biscuit — One  pint  of  flour,  one  rounding  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking  pov/der;  sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  together 
three  times;  one  tablespoonful  of  lard  rubbed  thoroughly  in  the 
flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  as  soft  as  possible  to 
handle  with  cold  water;  roll  and  cut  into  biscuit  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Fried  Chicken — Take  a  spring,  chicken,  dress  and  cut  up  as 
for  pot  pie.  Steam  for  one-half  hour,  as  this  makes  it  more 
juicy  and  more  evenly  done;  then  fry  in  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
a  pale  brown;  sprinkle  with  one-half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  dash  of  pepper  while  frying. 

Flaked  Potatoes — Get  potatoes  as  perfect  as  possible;  boil 
in  their  skins  in  salt  water  for  one-half  hour;  drain  dry  and 
peel;  rub  through  a  coarse  sieve  onto  a  hot  dish  before  the  fire. 
Do  not  touch  them  after  this  or  the  flakes  will  flatten  out.  Serve 
hot. 

•  Deviled  Tomatoes — Two  or  three  large,  firm  tomatoes,  not 
over  ripe;  cut  them  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick  and  lay  on  a 
sieve.  Make  a  dressing  of  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one 
of  vinegar  rubbed  smooth  with  the  yolk  of  one  hard-boiled  egg; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  fourth 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  a  fourth  of  a  saltspoonful  of 
cayenne  pepper;  beat  until  smooth  and  heat  to  a  boil.  Take  from 
the  fire  and  pour  upon  a  well-beaten  egg,  whipping  to  a  smooth 
cream.  Put  the  vessel  containing  this  dressing  in  hot  water  while 
the  tomatoes  are  being  thoroughly  broiled  over  a  clear  fire.  Put 
the  tomatoes  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  the  dressing  over  them. 
Cooked  in  this  way  they  are  very  nice  with  chicken. 

Apple  Pie — Crust:  For  one  pie  take  two  large  handfuls  of 
flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  piece  of  lard  the  size  of  a  turkey's  egg, 
rub  into  the  flour  until  smooth;  mix  with  just  enough  cold  water 
to  roll.  Filling:  Take  four  or  five  large  tart  apples,  pare,  quar- 
ter and  slice  thin.  Line  the  pie  plate  with  the  crust,  place  the 
sliced  apples  on  the  crust  and  season  with  three-fourths  cup 
of  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  v/alnut,  a  half  a  saltspoon  of 
salt  and  a  fourth  of  a  grated  nutmeg.  Wet  the  edges  of  the 
under  crust,  place  the  upper  crust  over  the  apples  and  press  very 


308  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

closely  around  the  edge;    prick  the  upper  crust  with  a  fork  to 
keep  from  blistering.     Bake  slowly  for  half  an  hour. 

Cream  Cookies — One  and  two-thirds  cups  of  sugar,  one-half 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  three  eggs,  one-haif  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  three  cups  of  flour.     Do  not  roll  too  thin. 

Mrs.   E.  J.   Parmely. 

Michigan  Street,  De  Pere,  Wis. 


TUESDAY,   JULY   THE    SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Black  cherries. 

Farinose  and  cream. 

Boston   brown  hash,   with  tomato  pickles. 

Great-aunt  cornbread. 


LUNCHEON. 

Stuffed  squash.        Scotch  scones. 
Election  cake.  Iced  chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Almond   soup,   with   custard. 

Scalloped  lamb  or  mutton. 

Stuffed  eggplant.        Potatoes  in  cream  sauce. 

Ginger  water  ice. 


Farinose — One  cup  farinose  stirred  gradually  into  one  quart 
of  boiling  water  salted  with  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Cook  twenty  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Serve  with 
cream  and  sugar.     (One  of  the  best  breakfast  foods.) 

Tomato  Pickles — Take  small  tomatoes  which  have  turned 
red,  but  are  still  unripe;  put  them  in  glass  cans  together  with 
mint  leaves.     Pour  over  them  hot  salted  vinegar. 

Great-Aunt  Cornbred — Beat  one  egg  with  a  pinch  of  salt, 
add  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  but- 
ter size  of  a  butternut  (melted).  One  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder  mixed  with  part  of  cornmeal.  Stir  in  cornmeal  until 
rather  stiff,  but  not  too  stiff  to  pour. 

Stuffed  Squash — Choose  a  small  summer  squash  with  tender 
skin,  wash  it,  cut  out  the  stem  end,  remove  the  pulp  and  seeds 
without  breaking  the  squash,  mix  them  with  sausage  meat  or 
cold  meat  chopped  fine,  season  very  highly,  replace  in  the  squash 
and  bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Election  Cake  (over  100  years  old) — Two  and  one-half  cups 
raised  bread  dough,  two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two 
eggs  (a  little  of  the  white  reserved),  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  pinch 
of  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  cup  stoned  and  chopped 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  309 

raisins,  one-half  cup  of  currants.  Beat  together  sugar,  butter 
and  eggs  until  smooth.  Beat  these  into  the  dough  with  the  hand 
until  well  mixed.  Exchange  hand  for  spoon,  stir  in  spice,  salt 
and  fruit.  Pour  into  two  buttered  pans.  Cover  and  let  stand  in 
warm  place  one-half  hour.  The  rising  will  not  be  perceptible  un- 
til subjected  to  the  heat  of  the  oven.  Bake  one-half  hour.  When 
done  mix  sugar  with  the  reserved  white  of  egg  until  stiff  enough 
not  to  drop  from  the  spoon.    Apply  with  a  cloth. 

Iced  Chocolate — Four  ounces  sweet  chocolate,  one-half  cup 
of  sugar  (scant),  one-half  pint  of  water,  one  quart  of  cream,  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Put  chocolate,  water  and  sugar  in  a 
saucepan  to  melt;  stir  until  smooth.  Heat  cream  in  double  boil- 
er. When  hot  add  it  gradually  to  the  chocolate  mixture;  beat 
until  well  mixed.    When  cold  add  vanilla,  strain  and  freeze. 

Almond  Soup,  with  Custard — Four  ounces  shelled  sweet  al- 
monds; scald  and  rub  off  skins;  pound  to  a  smooth  pulp  in  a 
mortar,  adding  a  few  drops  of  milk  to  prevent  oiling.  Gradually 
mix  in  a  quart  of  milk  and  four  ounces  sugar.  Heat  over  a  mod- 
erate fire.  Meanwhile  mix  smoothly  the  yolks  of  tv/o  eggs,  a 
wineglass  full  of  milk  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Put  into 
small  pan  rubbed  with  salad  oil,  set  into  larger  pan  containing 
hot  water.  Heat  until  the  custard  hardens.  Cut  into  thin  inch 
strips.  When  the  soup  boils  mix  a  half-cup  of  it  with  the  beat- 
en yolks  of  two  eggs  and  stir  them  with  the  rest.  Pour  into  a 
tureen  and  cool.  Before  serving  add  the  strips  of  custard  and  a 
little  nutmeg.     (A  hot- weather  dish  to  be  eaten  cold.) 

Scalloped  Mutton  or  Lamb — Chop  fine  cold  cooked  lamb  or 
muttpn.  Put  a  layer  in  bottom  of  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of 
fresh  or  canned  tomatoes,  then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  and  so 
on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Season  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  but- 
ter.    Bake  until  the  bread  crumbs  are  brown. 

Stuffed  Eggplant — Cut  an  eggplant  into  halves,  scoop  out 
the  flesh,  leaving  a  sufficiently  thick  rind  to  hold  it  in  shape. 
Chop  the  flesh  flne  and  mix  with  an  equal  amount  of  chopped 
bread,  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
quarter-teaspoon  black  pepper  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Mix  thor- 
oughly and  put  into  shells.  Lay  on  top  of  each  a  thin  slice  of 
bacon  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  forty  minutes. 

Ginger  Water  Ice — Six  ounces  preserved  ginger,  one  quart 
lemon  ice.  Make  lemon  ice  as  follows:  Pour  large  juicy  lemons, 
one  quart  water,  one  orange,  one  and  one-quarter  pounds  sugar. 
Boil  sugar,  water  and  rind  of  lemons  and  orange  five  minutes. 
Cool  it  and  add  juice  of  orange  and  lemons,  strain  and  freeze. 
Pound  four  ounces  of  the  ginger  to  a  paste,  cut  the  other  two 
ounces  into  very  thin  slices  and  stir  these  into  the  lemon  ice. 
Repack  and  stand  away  to  ripen.  Mrs.  H.  R.  Hillyer. 

University   Heights,   Madison,   Wis. 


310  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

WEDNESDAY,  JULY  THE  SEVENTH. 
[This  meal  is  planned  for  bread-baking  day.] 


BREAKFAST. 

Broiled  white  fish.  Stewed  potatoes. 

Breadsticks. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Baked  eggs.  French  rolls. 

Radishes. 

Milk  custard.  Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Turbot  a  la  creme. 

Sliced  tomatoes. 

Baked  tongue.  Sauce  Hollandaise. 

Potato  in  pyramids. 

Raspberries  and  cream. 


Stewed  Potatoes — Slice  a  generous  pint  of  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes. Put  into  a  saucepan  butter  the  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg,  and 
when  it  bubbles  add  an  even  teaspoonful  of  flour — the  sauce  not 
to  be  thick — which  cook  a  moment  and  then  pour  in  a  cupful  of 
milk — or  better,  cream.  Season  with  a  half -teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Stir  slowly  until  it  boils  up, 
then  mix  in  the  potato  slices.  When  thoroughly  hot  they  are 
ready  to  be  served. 

Breadsticks — Set  bread  at  night.  In  the  morning,  after  knead- 
ing, take  from  the  dough  a  piece  equal  to  one-quarter  loaf. 
Cut  and  roll  into  pieces  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick  and  four 
inches  long.  Place  in  a  pan  an  inch  apart  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  for  half  an  hour.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  ten  minutes. 
Serve  hot.  Practice  alone  makes  perfect  the  shape  and  color  of 
the  sticks. 

Rolls — When  the  bread  is  ready  to  put  into  the  pans  take 
dough  equal  to  one  loaf  and  add  one  tablespoonful  each. of  butter 
and  lard  and  sugar.  Mold  into  biscuits  and  put  in  a  pan — not 
too  close  together.  Let  them  rise  for  an  hour,  or  until  light,  and 
bake  quickly  in  a  hot  oven.  If  desired  hot  for  lunch,  put  the 
dough,  before  molding,  into  the  ice  chest  until  an  hour  and  a 
half  before  luncheon.  These  biscuits  cut  in  half  and  toasted  in 
a  nioderately  hot  oven  make  delicious  rusk  for  breakfast  the  next 
day. 

Baked  Eggs — Butter  well  individual  fish-baking  dishes  and 
into  each  drop  a  fresh  egg.  Sprinkle  over  each  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  pepper.  Then  cover  with  a  tfeick  layer  of  fine  dry  bread 
crumbs  and  scatter  bits  butter  on  top,  about  one-half  teaspoonful 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  311 

to  an  egg.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  brown — about  five  min- 
utes. (Some  consider  the  addition  of  a  little  grated  cheese  be- 
fore baking  or  a  little  mayonnaise  dressing  when  served  an  im- 
provement.) 

Milk  Custard — This  is  a  dish  which,  considering  its  cheapness 
and  delicacy,  is  little  used.  It  is  a  refreshing  dish  for  a  hot  day 
— especially  excellent  for  children,  who  can  make  an  entire  meal 
from  it.  Buy  a  bottle  of  liquid  rennet,  made  by  James  T.  Shinn 
of  Philadelphia,  price  eighteen  cents  (all  good  grocers  carry  it). 
This  will  keep  any  length  of  time.  To  one  quart  of  milk,  slight- 
ly warmed,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  liquid  rennet,  stirring  only 
enough  to  mix  it  thoroughly.  It  should  stand  on  or  near  the  ice 
for  an  hour  before  serving.  Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  in 
a  cupful  of  sugar  and  sprinkle  over  the.  custard  as  served,  add- 
ing cream. 

Iced  Tea — The  most  economical  way  to  prepare  iced  tea  is  to 
make  a  pot  of  rather  strong  oolong  tea,  early  in  the  morning. 
Pour  a  pint  of  fresh  boiling  water  slowly  on  three  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  tea,  cover  tightly  and  set  one  side — not  over  the 
fire.  When  perfectly  cold,  pour  off  the  tea  from  the  leaves  and 
set  on  the  ice.  Have  a  large  bottle  of  filtered  water  lying  on 
the  ice  and  just  before  serving,  add  one  quart  of  this  water  to 
the  tea.  Serve  in  glasses  v/ith  a  slice  of  lemon  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Small  lumps  of  ice  may  be  added  if  desired. 

(A  more  delicate  tea,  but  more  expensive,  can  be  made  with 
cold  water.  Pour  the  entire  quantity  of  water  to  be  used  on  twice 
the  quantity  of  tea  used  with  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand 
from  six  to  twelve  hours  before  serving.  The  cold  water  ex- 
tracts the  refreshing  qualities  of  the  tea  without  the  astringent.) 

Turbot  a  la  creme — Pick  the  bones  from  the  white-fish  left 
from  breakfast  (a  little  freshened  codfish  can  be  added  if  there  is 
not  a  pint  of  white).  Make  a  sauce  of  a  pint  of  milk,  a  few  sprigs 
of  parsley  and  a  slice  of  onion;  simmer  together  until  well  fiav- 
ored;  wet  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  stir  in  v/ith  butter  half 
the  size  of  an  egg.  Season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one- 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  (If  codfish  is  used  take  one- 
half  the  quantity  of  salt.)  Use  individual  fish  dishes.  Put  a  lit- 
tle sauce  in  dish,  then  a  layer  of  fish,  and  so  on,  putting  sauce  on 
top.  Cover  with  rolled  crackers  or  bread  crumbs  and  brown  in 
a  moderately  heated  oven. 

Baked  Tongue — Get  a  beef  tongue  weighing  from  three  to 
four  pounds,  either  fresh,  or  better,  corned  one  or  two  days.  Put 
it  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it  and  let  it  boil 
gently  without  stopping  until  the  skin  will  slip  easily  from  it, 
about  tv/o  hours  and  a  half.  Have  a  teakettle  of  boiling  water 
to  replenish  as  the  water  boils  away,  just  keeping  the  tongue  cov- 
ered. If  the  tongue  is  fresh  add  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  the 
water  in  which  it  is  boiled.  When  done  skin  it,  rub  with  butter, 
sprinkle  thoroughly  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  twenty  min- 
utes. Serve  hot  with  sauce  Hollandaise.  (There  will  be  enough 
cold  tongue  left  for  a  lunch  or  a  Sunday  supper.) 


812  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

Sauce  Hollandaise— Mix  well  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  cold  water.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  cay- 
enne pepper.  Boil  in  a  double  pan  and  beat  until  the  butter 
melts  and  it  rises  to  a  froth. 

Potato  Pyramids — Mold  mashed  potato  in  after-dinner  cof- 
fee cups  or  molds.  Turn  out,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  little 
bits  of  butter  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Cold  mashed  potato  can 
be  utilized  in  this  way. 

Sliced  Tomatoes — When  used  as  a  vegetable  should  be  served 
plain,  allowing  each  member  of  the  family  to  use  for  dressing 
salt,  pepper,  oil  or  vinegar,  one,  all  or  none,  to  taste.  Great 
care  should  be  taken  in  the  selection  of  the  tomatoes  to  have 
them  perfectly  ripe  and  never  overripe.  They  should  be  solid  and 
served  very  cold.  Calculate  one  moderate-sized  tomato  to  a  per- 
son. Elizabeth  H.  Baird. 

No.  465  Dearborn  Avenue,  Chicago. 


THURSDAY,  JULY  THE  EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Blueberries  and  milk. 

Summer  sausage.  Potato  klosse. 

Bread  balls.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Tongue  salad.  Creamed  potatoes. 

Bread  and  butter. 
Wild  red   plums.  Spice  cookies. 

Royal  spruce  beer. 


DINNER. 

Toast   soup. 

Stuffed  beefsteak,  sauce  piquante. 

Ragout   of  vegetables.  Watermelon. 

Coffee. 


Summer  Sausage — One  heaping  cup  boiled  beef,  chopped;  one 
heaping  cup  bread  crumbs;  one  tablespoonful  of  flour;  one  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt;  three  dashes  of  pepper;  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  powdered  sage;  one-half  teaspoonful  of  powdered  marjoram; 
thyme  and  celery  salt  mixed.  Moisten  with  one-half  cup  boil- 
ing water;  mix  well  and  make  into  cakes  like  sausage  and  fry 
in  butter. 

Potato  Klosse — Beat  a  pound  of  boiled  potatoes  to  a  smooth 
pulp,  and  while  still  warm  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one- 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  313 

half  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  two  ounces  butter,  slightly  melted, 
one  tablespoonful  finely  minced  parsley  and  two  well-beaten  eggs. 
Beat  well,  then  drop  the  preparation,  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time, 
into  deep  boiling  fat,  dipping  the  spoon  each  time  into  boiling 
water  and  being  careful  in  dropping  them  to  retain  the  shape  of 
the  spoon.  Fry  until  a  golden  brown  (about  two  minutes),  then 
drain  on  blotting  paper  and  pile  up  tastefully  on  a  hot  plate  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 

Bread  Balls — Allow  well-worked  bread  dough,  made  of  the 
whitest  flour,  to  become  very  light.  Butter  the  hands,  pinch  off 
small  bits  and  roll  into  round  balls,  making  one  dozen.  Put 
them  into  warmed  and  greased  gem  irons.  Let  them  become 
light,  prick  with  a  fork,  turn  a  pan  over  them,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  They  should  be  a  delicate  brown  and  as  nearly 
round  as  possible. 

Tongue  Salad — Mix  together  one  cupful  cold  tongue  cut  in 
dice,  a  sprig  of  parsley  minced  fine,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  one  hard-boiled  egg  cut  fine,  and  a 
tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  Durkee's  salad  dressing.  Line  a  salad 
bowl  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  put  in  the  tongue  mixture  and 
garnish  with  a  hard-boiled  egg,  sliced,  and  a  few  celery  tips;  then 
pour  over  a  teaspoonful  of  the  dressing.  If  a  salt  tongue  is  used 
no  more  salt  will  be  required. 

Spice  Cookies — One  cup  of  sugar,  a  heaping  tablespoonful 
and  a  half  of  butter,  creamed  together,  one-half  cup  of  sour  milk, 
into  which  has  been  stirred  one-half  teaspoonful  soda.  Add  a 
scant  half-teaspoonful  of  cloves,  a  half-teaspoonful  each  of  cin- 
namon, nutmeg,  vanilla  and  almond  extract  and  one  saltspoonful 
of  ginger.  Mix  very  stiff  and  roll  very  thin.  Sprinkle  granulat- 
ed sugar  over  before  baking.    This  makes  about  three  dozen. 

Royal  Spruce  Beer — Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar, 
one  gallon  of  water,  one-quarter  ounce  of  ginger,  the  grated  rind 
of  two  lemons  and  a  teaspoonful  essence  of  spruce.  Add  one-half 
cake  yeast,  dissolved  in  a  half-cup  of  water.  Let  it  ferment; 
strain,  and  bottle  air-tight. 

Toast  Soup — Brown  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in 
a  kettle.  Break  four  slices  of  toast  in  bits  and  stir  them  in  the 
butter.  Pour  four  teacupfuls  of  boiling  water  over  and  add  one- 
half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  half  a  cup 
of  good  cream — more  if  the  cream  is  thin.  Let  it  just  come  to  a 
boil  and  serve.     This  is  a  very  delicate  soup. 

Stuffed  Beefsteak — Take  a  tender  slice  of  round  steak  an 
inch  thick,  remove  the  bone,  trim  and  spread  with  stufiing,  roll 
up  and  tie  with  a  string.  Have  ready  a  dripping-pan  in  which 
you  have  fried  two  slices  of  salt  pork.  Put  in  the  roll  and  brown; 
then  put  in  half  a  cup  of  hot  water  and  sprinkle  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  over  the  meat.  Cover 
closely  and  cook  one-half  hour.  Serve  with  sauce  piquante  poured 
over. 

Stuffing — One-half  pint  bread  crumbs,  one  teaspoonful  of 
summer  savory,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  saltspoon- 


314  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

fill  of  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  teacup  boiling 
water.    Stir  all  together  and  spread  on  the  steak. 

Sauce  Piquante— Heat  one  cupful  liquor  from  tongue  or  any 
kind  of  beef,  skim  and  season  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  two 
dashes  of  pepper.  Stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  browned 
flour,  wet  up  in  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  cold  water.  As  it  thickens 
put  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  minced 
parsley  and  one-half  teaspoonful  sweet  marjoram,  one  tablespoon- 
ful onion  vinegar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard.  Boil  up 
and  serve. 

Ragout  of  Vegetables — Parboil  one  carrot,  two  potatoes,  one 
cup  string  beans,  one  cup  green  peas,  one  onion  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  salt  pork.  Drain  and  take  out  the  salt  pork. 
Slice  the  potatoes,  carrot  and  onion;  add  one  sliced  tomato,  one 
cup  of  stock,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  and  a  saltspoonful  of 
pepper.     Cook  all  together  one-half  hour  and  serve. 

A  half  a  watermelon  can  be  bought  at  most  places,  and  this 
will  be  sufficient  for  five  persons. 

Miss  Edith  A.  Ruling. 

Wheaton,  Du  Page  County,  111. 


FRIDAY,  JULY  THE  NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Huckleberries,  sugar  and  cream. 

Eggs  a  la  creme.  Sliced  tomatoes. 

Breakfast  puffs. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  boiled  ham.  Cottage  cheese. 

Bread  and  butter.  Iced  tea. 

Cream  raspberry  tart. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  sweet  corn. 

Broiled  whitefish.  Mashed  potato. 

Cucumbers.  Eggplant,   French   style. 

Lemoiv  pie  with  cheese. 

Coffee. 


Cream  Raspberry  Tart — Line  a  deep  pie  plate  or  shallow  pud- 
ding dish  with  pie  crust;  then  fill  the  dish  with  the  berries  and 
sprinkle  over  them  one-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Roll  the 
pie  crust  out  a  little  thicker  than  for  an  upper  crust  of  a  pie  and 
spread  over  the  berries,  leaving  the  crust  a  little  larger  than  the 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  315 

dish,  and  do  not  press  down  the  edge.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Meanwhile  make  a  custard  by  placing  a  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk 
over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler  and  when  it  comes  to  the  boiling 
point  stir  in  half  a  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch,  moistened  with 
a  little  cold  milk  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Beat  light  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Cook  a  moment  be- 
fore taking  from  the  fire.  Stand  the  dish  containing  the  custard 
in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  stir  until  the  custard  is  cold.  ¥/hen 
the  pie  is  baked,  carefully  remove  the  top  crust  and  pour  the  cold 
custard  over  the  fruit.  Replace  the  crust  and  allow  the  pie  to  be- 
come cool  before  serving. 

Eggplant,  French  Style — Boil  a  large  eggplant  until  tender; 
peel  and  mash  smooth,  season  with  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one 
half  saltspoonful  pepper,  one  level  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  little 
thyme.  Chop  fine  two  hard-boiled  eggs  and  one-half  an  onion. 
Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs.  Mix  well  with  the 
eggplant,  put  into  buttered  dish,  put  bread  crumbs  over  the  top 
with  bits  of  butter  and  bake  in  quick  oven  until  brown. 

Elizabeth  Colton. 

No.  3158  Prairie  Avenue,  Chicago. 


SATURDAY,  JULY  THE  TENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cherries  on  the  stem. 

Wheatena  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Rice  and  meat  croquettes. 

Coffee  rolls.     Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Fried  calves'  brains. 

Tomatoes  dressed  individually. 

Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Hot  or  iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Mutton  soup. 

Baked  liver.        Brown  quirled  potatoes. 

Wax  beans. 

Currant  pudding  with  cream. 

Coffee. 


Rice  and  Meat  Croquettes — One  cupful  of  boiled  seasoned 
rice,  one  cupful  of  finely  chopped  cooked  meat  (any  kind  left 
over  from  yesterday  will  do),  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  little 
pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  one 


316  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

egg.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil;  add  the  meat,  rice  and  the  season- 
ing; when  this  boils  add  the  egg,  well  beaten;  stir  one  minute, 
remove  from  the  fire  and  when  cool  shape  like  croquettes;  dip 
in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat  till 
brown. 

Coffee  Rolls — Sift  one  and  one-half  quarts  of  flour  into  a 
pan;  to  this  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  pint  of  cold 
water  and  one  cupful  of  soft  yeast;  mix  into  a  loaf  and  let  rise 
over  night.  In  the  morning  work  into  the  dough  a  rounded  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  half  a  teacupful  of  white  sugar  and  half  a  cup- 
ful of  English  currants  which  have  been  well  washed  and  dried  in 
the  oven;  before  putting  them  in  sift  some  flour  and  sugar  over 
them,  then  work  them  into  the  dough  thoroughly,  make  into  long 
rolls,  dip  into  melted  butter,  place  in  pan,  let  them  rise  and  when 
light  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes.    These  are  very  nice. 

Fried  Calves'  Brains — Soak  the  brains  for  an  hour  in  cold 
water,  then  boil  for  twenty  minutes  in  water  containing  a  small 
onion,  three  sprigs  of  parsley,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar;  throw  them  into  cold  water  to  blanch,  re- 
move the  skins  and  fibers,  then  cut  in  slices,  dip  them  in  a  bat- 
ter made  of  one  well-beaten  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a 
mite  of  salt  and  one-half  cupful  of  milk.  Fry  to  a  light  brown 
and  serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

Tomatoes  Dressed  Individually — Take  five  tomatoes  that  are 
fully  ripe  but  firm  and  smooth,  peel  them,  cut  in  halves,  take  out 
the  most  of  the  pulp  and  seeds,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  out- 
side. Make  a  French  dressing  of  one  tablespoonful  of  strong  vin- 
egar, three  of  salad  oil,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper;  mix  the  pulp  and  seeds  with  the  dressing,  re- 
turn to  the  halves  of  tomatoes,  set  each  half  on  a  fresh  leaf  of  let- 
tuce on  an  individual  dish  and  serve. 

Mutton  Soup — Two  pounds  of  coarse,  lean,  chopped  mutton 
(the  scrag  makes  good  soup  and  costs  little);  half  an  onion,  sliced; 
one  cup  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  raw  rice,  two  quarts  of  cold  water, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Put  the  meat  into  the  cold  water  with 
the  onion  and  simmer  four  hours;  when  nearly  done  add  the  salt, 
set  away  until  cold,  then  skim  and  strain;  return  to  the  pot  with 
the  rice,  which  has  been  soaked  for  three  hours,  simmer  half  an 
hour,  turn  in  the  milk,  which  has  been  heated,  stir  and  serve. 

Baked  Liver — Get  a  calf's  liver,  wash  thoroughly  and  wipe 
dry.  Cut  a  long,  deep  hole  in  the  side,  make  a  stuffing  with  one 
pint  bread  crumbs,  three  slices  of  bacon  and  an  onion  chopped 
fine,  a  few  sprinkles  of  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  a 
beaten  egg  (no  more  salt  will  be  needed  in  the  stuffing  than  the 
bacon  furnishes),  sprinkle  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  into  the  inci- 
sion, then  put  in  the  stuffing,  sew  or  tie  together,  lard  it  over, 
sprinkle  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  on  the  outside,  dredge  with  flour, 
put  in  the  roasting  pan  with  a  cup  of  water  and  bake  two  hours. 

Browned  Quirled  Potatoes — Pare  a  half  dozen  good-sized  old 
potatoes  (old  potatoes  are  best  if  put  into  cold  water  when  put 
on     to     cook),     let     them      cook      until      thoroughly      done; 


THE   CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  S17 

drain,  mash  and  season  with  one-half  cupful  milk,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  beat  them  well,  press 
through  a  colander  into  the  serving  dish,  do  not  let  colander  touch 
potatoes  or  dish,  and  set  in  the  oven  till  nicely  browned. 

Wax  Beans — Wash  well  and  cut  the  ends  from  the  beans  and 
cut  in  two  or  three  pieces;  two  quarts  of  beans  will  be  sufficient; 
throw  into  boiling  water,  to  which  has  been  added  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  The  water  should  only  commence  to  boil  when 
they  are  put  in,  as  long  boiling  makes  the  water  flat  and  taste- 
less and  the  vegetables  will  not  look  well  or  have  a  good  flavor. 
Cook  the  beans  one  hour  and  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  but- 
ter, some  pepper  and  one-half  cup  of  good  milk.  Do  not  cover 
while  cooking.  The  water  should  be  almost  boiled  away  before 
the  seasoning  is  put  in. 

Currant  Pudding — Put  one  cupful  of  tapioca  into  a  small 
strainer  and  let  cold  water  run  through  it  to  cleanse  it;  pour 
boiling  water  over  it  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  tapioca 
is  transparent;  add  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt;  stir  often 
while  cooking.  Pick  over  one  quart  ripe  currants  and  wash  them, 
put  them  in  a  glass  dish,  sprinkle  over  them  two  cupfuls  of  white 
sugar,  turn  the  hot  tapioca  very  slowly  over  them  and  after  it  has 
cooled  a  little  set  on  the  ice  to  get  very  cold.  When  served  with 
cream  this  makes  a  delicious  and  cool  summer  dessert. 

Mrs.  Edward  E.  Sloan. 

No.  124  Sixth  Street,  Flint,  Mich. 


SUNDAY^  JULY  THE  ELEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Blackberries. 

Oatmeal  croquettes. 

Egg  vermicelli.  Thirded  bread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 
Potted   fish. 
London  crumpets.  Cottage  cheese. 

One  egg  cake.        Raspberry  vinegar. 


DINNER. 

Roast  veal.    Mashed  potatoes. 

Summer  squash.  Stuffed  tomatoes. 

Baked  berry  roll,  fruit  sauce. 

Coffee. 


Oatmeal  Croquettes — Warm  one  cup  of  cooked  oatmeal  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  milk;    add  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  and  one 


318  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

saltspoonful  of  salt.  When  cool  shape  into  small  ovals,  roll  in 
crumbs,  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  roll  in  crumbs  again  and  fry  in 
smoking-hot  fat. 

Thirded  Bread — One  cup  white  flour,  one  cup  rye  flour,  one 
cup  yellow  cornmeal,  three  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  one-half  cake  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  one  scant  half- 
cup  water.  Mix  these  ingredients  with  milk,  scalded  and  cooled, 
till  thick  enough  to  be  shaped  into  a  loaf.  Let  the  loaf  rise  till 
it  cracks  open.    Put  into  a  pan  and  when  light  bake  one  hour. 

Potted  Fish — Chop  and  pound  to  a  paste  all  the  fragments  of 
cooked  fish  you  have.  Season  highly,  using  the  proportion  of 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  made  mus- 
tard, one-half  saltspoonful  black  pepper  and  three  dashes  cayenne 
to  a  pint  of  the  paste.  Moisten  with  a  little  melted  butter.  Pack 
closely  in  small  stone  jars.  Put  the  jars  in  a  steamer  and  heat 
for  half  an  hour.  Then  press  the  meat  down  again  and  cover  with 
hot  melted  butter.  This  will  keep  for  a  long  time  and  may  be 
served  in  slices  or  used  for  sandwiches.  Remnants  of  tongue  and 
poultry  are  very  nice  prepared  in  this  way. 

London  Crumpets^Three  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt, 
one  teaspoonful  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  egg, 
one  pint  milk,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon.  Sift  together  flour, 
salt,  sugar  and  powder;  add  beaten  egg,  milk  and  extract;  mix 
into  a  firm  batter.  Heat  a  well-greased  griddle  and  on  it  set 
greased  muffin  rings.  Half  fill  the  rings,  bake  on  both  sides,  and 
when  done  serve  hot  with  cottage  cheese. 

Cottage  Cheese — One  quart  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  butter, 
one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  cream;  place  the  milk 
in  a  pan  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  scald  it  until  the  curd  has 
separated  from  the  whey;  spread  a  strainer  cloth  over  a  bowl, 
pour  in  the  milk  and  drain  till  quite  dry;  put  the  curd  in  a  bowl 
with  the  butter,  salt  and  cream;  mix  to  a  smooth  paste  with  the 
hand,  then  roll  into  small  balls. 

One-Egg  Cake— Cream  together  one  cup  sugar  and  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg;  add  one  beaten  egg;  into  this  stir  two-thirds  of 
a  cup  of  milk  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  sift  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  with  two  scant  cups  of  flour  and  add 
gradually;    bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Raspberry  Vinegar — To  four  quarts  red  raspberries  put  enough 
vinegar  to  cover;  let  stand  twenty-four  hours;  scald  and  strain 
it;  add  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  juice;  boil  twenty  min- 
utes and  bottle;  it  is  then  ready  for  use  and  will  keep  for  years; 
to  a  glass  of  ice-water  add  two  tablespoonfuls;  it  is  very  refresh- 
ing. 

Roast  Veal—Get  three  pounds  from  the  loin  and  dredge  with 
salt,  pepper  and  flour.  Put  strips  of  salt  pork  over  the  top.  Allow 
half  an  hour  to  the  pound  and  cover  with  a  buttered  paper  to 
keep  the  meat  from  burning.  Add  water  when  the  flour  has 
browned  and  baste  often.  When  done  take  up  the  roast,  add  more 
water  if  needed  and  make  a  brown  gravy  from  the  liquor  in  the 
pan. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  319 

Summer  Squash — Summer  squashes  are  good  only  when 
young  and  fresh.  Wash  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  The  skin  and 
seeds  need  not  be  removed.  Cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  twenty 
minutes.  Place  the  squash  in  a  strainer  or  cloth  and  squeeze  un- 
til the  squash  is  dry.  Turn  into  a  basin,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream  or  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
a  half  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  heat  again  before  serving. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes — Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  six 
tomatoes.  Remove  the  pulp  and  mix  with  it  an  equal  amount  of 
buttered  cracker  crumbs.  Mix  with  this  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
three  dashes  of  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Pill  the 
tomato  skins  with  the  mixture  and  sprinkle  buttered  crumbs  over 
the  top.    Bake  till  the  crumbs  are  brown. 

Baked  Berry  Roll — One  pint  of  flour  sifted  with  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  mix  into  this  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter  or  lard  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  add  three- 
quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk  and  roll  out  one-third  of  an  inch  thick. 
Spread  thickly  with  any  kind  of  berries,  sift  sugar  over  and  roll. 
Bake  half  an  hour  and  serve  hot  with  fruit  sauce. 

Fruit  Sauce — Cream  together  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter;  add  one  beaten  egg,  one  cup  of  mashed 
berries,  and  one  cup  of  boiling  milk.  Wet  one  teaspoonful  of 
corn  starch  in  enough  milk  to  dissolve  it  and  stir  in  slowly.  Let 
all  boil  together  three  minutes  and  serve, 

Elburn,  111.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Wakeley. 


MONDAY,  JULY  THE  TWELFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas  with  currant  juice. 

Hashed  veal  with  scrambled  eggs. 

Avena  gems.     Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Swiss  sandwiches. 

Cucumbers.        French  dressing. 

Savoy  cakes.        Frothed  chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Green-corn  soup. 

Plank  steak  broiled.        Mashed  potatoes. 

Tomato  farci. 

Raspberry  foam.  Coffee. 


Bananas  with  Currant  Juice — Cut  the  bananas  an  inch  thick, 
place  on  a  dish  and  sprinkle  over  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  to  four 
bananas;  then  add  the  juice  of  a  cupful  of  currants.  Prepare  the 
night  before  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 


320  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

Hashed  Veal— Chop  fine  cold  roast  veal,  or  veal  cooked  in  aay 
style  will  answer.  Moisten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  veal  gravy 
or  water.  When  hot  break  into  it  four  eggs.  If  you  have  a  cupful 
of  veal,  if  not  half  a  cup  of  fine  stale  bread  crumbs  will  answer 
nicely  to  make  the  quantity,  add  a  large  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Stir 
the  eggs  until  cooked,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  if  liked.    Serve  quickly. 

Avena  Gems — Take  one  and  one-half  cups  of  cold  cooked 
"avena."  Season  with  a  half-teaspoon  of  salt  (if  none  was  used  in 
cooking),  add  two-thirds  cup  of  milk  (part  cream  is  better)  and 
white  flour  to  make  quite  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  well,  drop  in  hot 
gem  pans,  bake  quickly.  They  are  light,  tender,  sweet  and  very 
palatable. 

Swiss  Sandwiches — Mix  equal  parts  of  grated  Swiss  cheese 
and  chopped  English  walnut  meat.  Season  slightly  with  salt  and 
cayenne.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread,  slightly  buttered, 
and  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

Savoy  Cakes — Beat  together  for  twenty  minutes  the  yolks 
of  six  eggs  and  one-half  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  When 
light  and  thick  add  one-half  of  a  pound  of  sifted  pastry  flour,  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon  and  four  ounces  of  corn  starch. 
Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth  and  carefully 
cut  them  in.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  finger  molds  that  have  been 
buttered,  then  dusted  with  flour  and  sugar. 

Tomato  Farci — Cut  four  tomatoes  in  halves,  place  them  in  a 
frying-pan,  the  open  side  down,  in  one-half  inch  deep  of  hot  fat. 
Move  them  about  until  they  are  cooked  a  little  tender.  Lift  them 
from  the  pan  carefully  and  place  them  side  by  side  in  a  baking- 
dish.  Pour  around  them  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  oil,  sprin- 
kled with  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion,  one  of  parsley,  a 
half-teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  good 
pinch  of  cayenne.  Bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes  and  serve 
in  same  dish. 

Raspberry  Foam — Soak  half  a  package  of  gelatine  in  half  a 
cup  of  cold  water  until  soft;  heat  to  boiling  two  and  one-half 
cups  of  red  raspberry  juice;  sweeten  to  taste  and  turn  over  the 
soaked  gelatine.  Stir  until  perfectly  dissolved,  then  strain  and 
set  the  dish  in  ice  water  to  cool.  When  cold  beat  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  into  the  thickening  gela- 
tine. Beat  until  the  whole  is  a  solid  foam  stiff  enough  to  retain 
its  shape.  Turn  into  small  molds  previously  wet  with  cold  water, 
then  pile  roughly  in  a  dish.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Marion  C.  Wilson. 

No.   6407   Lexington  Avenue,   Chicago. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  321 

TUESDAY,  JULY  THE  THIRTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Black  raspberries. 

Oatmeal  porridge,  cream  and  sugar.        Broiled  bacon. 

Wheat  flour  griddle  cakes.        Sirup. 

Tea. 


LUNCHEON. 

Veal  loaf.  Sliced  cucumbers. 

Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Silver  and  gold  cake. 


DINNER. 

Potato  soup. 

Lamb  chops,  breaded.        Mashed  potatoes. 

Beets,  pickled.  Currant  pie. 

Cheese. 

Vienna  coffee. 


Silver  and  Gold  Cake — One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful 
(scant)  of  almond  extract,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  pow- 
der. Sift  the  flour  and  powder  together.  Beat  the  butter  to  a 
cream  and  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar;  add  the  flavoring.  Add 
the  milk  to  the  beaten  sugar  and  butter;  take  half  the  mixture,  and 
add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  and  half 
the  flour  stirred  in.  Bake  in  two  layers.  Take  the  other  half  the 
mixture,  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  stir  in  care- 
fully the  remaining  half  of  the  flour.  Bake  in  two  layers.  When 
done  put  in  alternate  layers — the  silver  on  top. 

Chocolate  Cream  Frosting — White  of  one  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  half  the  quantity  of  cream.  Add  confectioners'  sugar 
till  thick  enough  to  spread.  Spread  between  the  layers  and  on 
top.  Melt  half  a  cake  of  German  sweet  chocolate  by  putting  in 
bowl  over  boiling  water;  add  a  teaspoonful  boiling  water  to  the 
chocolate,  beating  well,  and  pour  over  the  cream  frosting  on  the 
cake. 

Beets,  Pickled — Cut  boiled  beets  in  slices;  put  in  a  glass  or 
earthen  jar,  with  one  tablespoonful  grated  horse-radish,  six 
cloves  and  vinegar  enough  to  cover.  They  will  be  ready  to  use 
in  about  ten  or  twelve  hours.  Or,  if  preferred,  use  the  beets  the 
first  day  without  pickling. 

Currant  Pie — Butter  the  pie  plate  and  cover  with  paste 
that  has  been  rolled  quite  thin;  fill  with  ripe,  red  currants  not 
previously  cooked;  sprinkle  plentifully  with  sugar,  dredge  in 
a  little  flour,  and  put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water;   wet  the 


322  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

edge  of  the  paste  and  cover  with  top  crust,  cutting  slit  in  center, 
pressing  the  edges  well  together,  and  hake  about  three-quarters 
of  an  hour. 

Vienna  Coffee — To  one  and  half  cups  of  boiling  milk  add  one 
cup  of  whipped  cream,  and  pour  this  into  one  quart  or  more  of 
strained  coffee.  Mrs.  Clara  Sloane 

No.  522  E.  Costilla  Street,  Colorado  Springs,  Colorado. 


WEDNESDAY.  JULY  THE  FOURTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  tomatoes. 

Broiled  mackerel. 

Hot  buttered  toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Pea  salad.      Brown  bread  and  butter. 

Huckleberries.      Small  cakes. 

Iced  or  hot  tea. 


DINNER. 

Fried  chicken  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 

New  potatoes.      Corn  oysters. 

Currant  sherbet. 

Coffee. 


Pea  Salad — Take  cold  peas  left  from  dinner,  add  cucumber 
sliced  and  quartered;  place  on  lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with 
French  dressing:  Three  tablespoons  oil,  one  tablespoon  vinegar, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  small  quarter  teaspoon  pepper,  few  drops 
of  onion  juice. 

Small  Cakes — One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half 
cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  level  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  two  eggs.  Beat  butter  to  a  cream,  add  sugar  grad- 
ually, then  the  well-beaten  yolks,  the  flour  and  milk  alternately, 
and  lastly  the  whites,  well  beaten.  Baking  powder  should  be 
sifted  with  flour. 

Broiled  Chicken — Singe  and  split  down  the  back  and  wipe 
with  damp  cloth.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Take  some 
butter  in  the  right  hand  and  rub  over  the  bird,  letting  the  greater 
part  go  on  the  breast  and  legs.  Dredge  with  flour.  Put  in  broiler 
with  breast  to  the  heat  first.  When  the  chicken  is  a  nice  brown, 
which  will  be  in  about  fifteen  minutes,  place  in  a  pan  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  for  twelve  minutes.  Place  on  a  hot  platter,  season  with 
butter  and  serve  immediately.  This  is  for  chicken  weighing 
about  two  and  a  half  pounds. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  323 

Hollandaise  Sauce — One-half  teacup  butter,  juice  of  lemon, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  speck  cayenne,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half 
cup  boiling  water.  Beat  butter  to  a  cream,  add  yolks  one  at  a 
time,  then  the  other  ingredients.  Put  bowl  in  boiling  water  and 
beat  with  egg-beater  until  thick  as  soft  custard.  Turn  on  plat- 
ter around  chicken. 

Corn  Oysters — One  cupful  flour,  half  cupful  melted  butter, 
three  tablespoonfuls  milk,  one  small  teaspoonful  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  pepper,  one  pint  grated  corn.  Pour  the  corn  on  flour 
and  beat  well;  then  add  the  other  ingredients  and  beat  rapidly 
for  three  minutes.  Have  fat  in  the  frying-pan  to  the  depth  of  two 
inches.  When  smoking  hot  put  in  the  batter  by  the  spoonful. 
Hold  spoon  close  to  fat  and  the  shape  of  oyster  will  be  good.  Pry 
about  five  minutes. 

Currant  Sherbet — One  pint  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  water,  one 
pint  of  currant  juice,  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Boil  water  and  sugar 
together  half  an  hour,  add  lemon  and  currant  juice  to  this  and  let 
cool  and  freeze.  "    Mrs.  L.  S.  Boughton. 

Battle  Creek,  Mich. 


THURSDAY,  JULY  THE  FIFTEENTH, 


BREAKFAST. 

Iced  currants. 

Codfish  croquettes. 

Wafiles.      Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Chicken  terrapin.      Potato  balls. 

Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Barberries.    Tea. 


DINNER. 

Canelon  of  beef.        Flemish  sauce. 

Potato  soufile.      Green  peas  a  la  Francaise. 

Tomato  jelly  salad. 

Peach  charlotte.        Iced  coffee. 


Iced  Currants— Wash  and  drain  dry  large  bunches  of  ripe 
currants,  dip  into  beaten  white  of  egg,  put  in  sieve  so  that  they 
will  not  touch  each  other,  sift  powdered  sugar  thickly  over  them 
and  put  in  a  warm  place  till  dry.  Cherries  and  grapes  may  be 
prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Codfish  Croquettes— One  pint  bowlful  of  raw  fish,  two  heap- 
ing bowlfuls  of  pared  potatoes  (let  the  potatoes  be  under  medium 
size),  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one- 


324  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

eighth  of  a  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Pick  the  fish  very  fine  and  meas- 
ure it  lightly  in  the  bowl.  Put  the  potatoes  into  the  boiler  and 
the  fish  on  top  of  them;  then  cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil 
half  an  hour.  Drain  off  all  the  water  and  mash  fish  and  pota- 
toes together  until  fine  and  light.  Then  add  the  butter,  pep- 
per and  the  milk.  Beat  well.  When  cool  roll  into  cro- 
quettes, dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  a  light  brown  in 
boiling  fat. 

Waffles — Mix  together  one  pint  of  flour  and  one  pint  of  milk 
to  a  smooth  paste;  add  one-half  of  small  cup  of  butter,  barely 
melted;  add  to  this  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  then 
the  beaten  whites,  and  just  before  baking  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Beat  very  hard  for  two  minutes  and  bake  in  a  very 
hot  iron.    This  recipe  is  delicious  and  never  fails. 

Chicken  Terrapin — Cut  up  the  remains  of  cold  chicken  into 
small  pieces,  being  careful  not  to  get  any  skin  in  the  dish.  Put 
into  a  skillet  or  chafing-dish  one-half  pint  of  cream  or  rich  milk. 
Mix  together  one  tablespoon  of  flour  and  one  of  butter,  and  when 
the  cream  comes  to  a  boil  stir  this  in.  Season  with  a  small  half- 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Have  ready  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  mix  with  the  chicken  and  stir  into  the 
thickened  cream.  Let  the  mixture  come  to  a  boil  and  serve.  This 
is  a  delightful  way  to  use  up  the  "odds  and  ends"  of  chicken. 

Barberries — Two  cups  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped,  one- 
half  pound  of  chopped  citron,  one  cup  sugar;  juice  of  one  lemon, 
one-half  cup  of  water.  Stew  all  together  five  minutes.  Line 
small  patty  pans  with  rich  pie  crust  filled  with  the  above  mixture, 
cover  with  upper  crust  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  These  will  keep 
in  a  cool  place  for  several  days. 

Canelon  of  Beef — Two  pounds  of  the  round  of  beef,  the  rind 
of  half  a  lemon,  three  sprigs  of  parsley,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one-eighth  of  a  nutmeg,  two  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  one  raw  egg  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  onion 
juice.  Chop  meat,  parsley  and  lemon  rind  very  fine.  Add  other 
ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly.  Shape  into  a  roll  about  three 
inches  in  diameter  and  six  in  length.  Roll  in  buttered  paper,  tie 
securely  and  bake  thirty  minutes,  basting  with  butter  and  water. 
When  cooked  place  in  a  hot  dish,  gently  unroll  from  the  paper  and 
serve  with  Flemish  sauce,  tomato  or  mushroom  sauce,  or  any 
other  you  may  prefer.  There  will  be  enough  left  to  serve  cold  for 
the  following  day's  luncheon. 

Flemish  Sauce — Cut  a  cupful  of  carrots  into  very  small  dice. 
Cover  with  boiling  water  and  simmer  one  hour.  Put  three  table- 
spoons of  butter,  two  of  flour,  a  slice  of  carrot,  an  onion  cut  fine, 
a  blade  of  mace  and  twenty  peppercorns  in  a  sauce-pan.  Stir  over 
the  fire  one  minute  and  add  two  cupfuls  of  any  kind  of  seasoned 
meat  stock.  Simmer  gently  half  an  hour.  Add  a  cupful  of  milk, 
boil  up  once  and  strain.  Now  add  the  cooked  carrot,  one  table- 
spoon chopped  parsley,  two  of  chopped  cucumber  pickles,  and, 
if  you  like,  one  of  grated  horseradish.    Taste  to  see  if  salt  enough. 

Tomato  Jelly  Salad — Take  eight  good-sized  tomatoes,  remove 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  325 

skins  and  stew  gently  ten  minutes  with  a  slice  of  onion,  six 
cloves,  a  sprinkling  of  pepper  and  a  half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Pass 
this  through  a  sieve  to  remove  seeds,  etc.  Stand  it  on  back  of 
stove  and  stir  into  it  one-half  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a 
small  half-cup  of  boiling  water.  Strain  through  a  cloth  into 
glasses  wet  in  cold  water,  and  set  away  to  harden.  There  should 
be  a  pint  and  a  half  in  all.  Serve  in  slices  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
mayonnaise  dressing.  This  may  be  prepared  with  canned  toma- 
toes also. 

Peach  Charlotte — Soak  one-third  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one- 
third  of  a  cup  of  cold  water  till  soft,  then  pour  in  one-third  cup 
of  boiling  water,  one  cup  of  sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon.  Strain 
sufficient  canned  or  freshly  stewed  peaches  through  a  sieve  to 
make  a  cupful  and  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients.  Stir  all  to- 
gether in  a  dish  set  in  cold  water,  and  when  the  mixture  begins 
to  harden  beat  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Pour  into 
a  mold.    Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  S.  C.  Parks,  Jr. 

Lander,  Wyo. 


FRIDAY,  JULY  THE  SIXTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Apricots  and  cream. 

Eggs  a  la  goldenrod.      Fried  tomatoes. 

Parker  house   rolls. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cecils.    Sliced  cucumbers. 

Bread  and  butter.      Sponge  cake. 

Blueberries. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Soup  a  la  Salvini. 

Boiled  bass  with  mushrooms. 

Baked  cauliflower.      Mashed  potatoes. 

Frozen  custard.      Wafers. 

Coffee. 


Fried  Tomatoes — Cut  in  halves  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown  in 
butter.    Serve  on  toast. 

Eggs  a  la  Goldenrod — Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a 
frying-pan  and  when  bubbling  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and 
gradually  one  cup  of  milk.    Add  the  whites  of  three  hard-boiled 


326  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

eggs  chopped  fine.  When  hot  pour  into  a  hot  dish.  Rub  the  yolks 
through  a  strainer  over  all  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Parker  House  Rolls — Take  two  quarts  of  flour  and  rub  into  it  a 
tablespoonful  of  lard  and  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt;  put  in  a  deep 
breadpan  and  make  a  hole  in  the  flour,  into  which  pour  one  pint 
of  cold,  boiled  milk,  and  one-half  cup  of  yeast.  Cover  the  pan 
and  let  it  stand  all  night.  In  the  morning  stir  it  up  and  knead 
well,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise;  let  it  rise  to  a  light  sponge 
(it  will  rise  in  one  and  one-half  hours),  then  roll  it  out  on  the 
board  about  one-half  inch  thick;  cut  with  an  oval  cutter  and  fold 
each  one  together  through  the  center,  placing  a  bit  of  butter  in 
each  crease.  Lay  them  on  thin  sheets;  let  them  rise  an  hour  and 
then  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Cecils — Chop  one  cup  of  cold  roast  beef  or  rare  steak;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  onion  juice  and  Worcestershire  sauce;  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  bread  crumbs 
and  one  egg  yolk;  stir  until  well  mixed;  shape,  roll  in  flour,  egg 
and  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat;  they  should  be  shaped  like 
small  croquettes  or  in  the  form  of  balls;  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Soup  a  la  Salvini — Purchase  a  chicken  1  year  old;  singe;  draw 
and  cut  it  to  pieces;  crack  the  bones  and  well  slash  the  meat;  put 
in  a  kettle  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  sliced  onion; 
cook  until  brown,  then  add  three  quarts  of  cold  water  and  the 
chicken.  Lower  kettle  and  cook  slowly  for  two  hours.  Now  add 
two  bay  leaves,  one  onion  with  six  cloves  and  a  blade  of  mace; 
cover  and  cook  slowly  one  hour  longer;  strain  and  stand  aside 
to  cool.  When  cold  next  day  skim  off  all  the  fat  and  turn  the 
soup,  without  sediment,  into  a  kettle;  bring  to  boiling  point; 
moisten  three  tablespoonfuls  of  arrow-root  in  a  little  cold  water, 
add  it  to  boiling  soup  and  stir  boiling  again.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soup  greens  chopped 
fine.     Strain  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Boiled  Bass  with  Mushrooms — Clean  a  fine  bass  and  sew  up 
in  a  thin  cloth.  Put  into  boiling  water  in  which  you  have  mixed 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  with  six  whole  black  peppers  and 
a  little  salt.  Cook  about  twelve  minutes  to  the  pound.  I*repare  a 
cupful  of  drawn  butter,  boil  half  can  of  mushrooms  twenty  min- 
utes, drain,  chop  up  and  stir,  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a 
little  pepper,  into  the  drawn  butter.  Simmer  together  three  min- 
utes, put  the  fish  upon  a  hot  dish  and  pour  one-third  of  the  sauce 
over  it,  serving  the  rest  in  a  boat. 

Baked  Cauliflower — Wash  a  large  head  of  cauliflower,  put  it 
into  boiling  salt  water  and  boil  rapidly  for  five  minutes.  Then 
push  it  back  where  it  cannot  possibly  boil  for  thirty  minutes. 
Drain  carefully,  put  it  into  a  baking  dish,  cover  over  it  a  pint 
of  cream  sauce,  dust  with  Parmesan  cheese  and  run  it  into  a  hot 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Frozen  Custard — Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  until  creamy; 
pour  into  them  two  quarts  of  scalding  milk;  add  two  cups  of 
sugar;  return  to  the  fire  and  stir  for  just  a  minute;  add  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  gelatine  that  has  been  soaking  a  half-hour  in  one- 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  327 

half  cup  of  cold  water;  strain  and  flavor.  When  perfectly  cold, 
freeze. 

Sweet  Wafers — Beat  to  a  cream  in  a  warm  bowl  two  ounces 
of  butter  and  ten  ounces  of  fine  granulated  sugar.  Add  three 
eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  beat  thoroughly  after  each  is  added.  Sift 
on  this  mixture  one-half  pound  of  flour  and  gradually  pour  over 
it  one-half  pint  of  milk,  beating  until  smooth.  Drop  on  buttered 
tins,  two  or  three  inches  apart,  half-tablespoonfuls  and  spread  over 
tins  in  rounds.  Angela  Harrison. 

No.  499  Belden  Avenue,  Chicago. 


SATURDAY,  JULY  THE  SEVENTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Melons. 

Codfish — maitre  d'  hotel.  Potato  ribbon. 

Corn  mufiins.  Graham  bread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cereal  with  fruit. 

Thinly  sliced  bread  and  butter. 

Frozen  bananas.  Angel  food. 


DINNER. 

Vegetable  soup. 

Roasted  calf's  heart.  Corn  pudding. 

Salad  a  la  columbine. 

Blackberry  cobbler.  Coffee. 


Melons — A  good,  sweet  melon  is  very  cool  and  refreshing  on 
a  hot  morning.  The  rough,  green  coat  and  deep  indentations 
changing  to  a  golden  tint,  give  promise  of  food  fit  for  "the  gods." 
Place  the  melon  on  ice  until  it  is  thoroughly  chilled,  then  cut 
open  and  scrape  out  the  seeds,  fill  the  cavity  with  finely  cracked 
ice  and  serve. 

Codfish — Maitre  d'  Hotel — Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from 
three  slices  of  fresh  codfish  and  cut  each  slice  in  two  pieces; 
season  with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
pepper;  dust  with  flour;  dip  the  pieces  in  beaten  eggs,  cover 
them  with  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Have  ready  a  dressing  made  by  stirring  one  ounce  of  butter 
to  a  cream,  to  which  you  have  added  one  tablespoon  of  lemon 
juice,  one  tablespoon  of  fine-chopped  parsley  and  one-eighth  tea- 
spoon of  nutmeg;    spread  this  over  the  fish  and  serve  while  hot. 

Cereal  with  Fruit — I  have  transferred  this  dish  from  break- 
fast to  luncheon  as  being  more  appetizing  that  time  of  day,  and 


328  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

also  because  cream  and  fish  do  not  readily  assimilate  in  the 
digestive  organs  of  most  persons. 

Take  five  large,  firm,  sour  apples,  pare  and  core,  care  being 
taken  to  leave  a  good-sized  cavity  in  the  center  slightly  larger 
at  one  end  than  the  other.  Cook  these  in  a  sirup  made  by  boil- 
ing for  five  minutes  one  cupful  of  sugar  in  two  cupfuls  of  water, 
flavored  with  one-inch  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  and  a  few  shav- 
ings from  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon.  Turn  the  apples  once, 
carefully;  when  done  lift  with  a  skimmer  and  place  in  a  pretty 
bowl,  the  larger  end  of  the  cavity  upward.  Having  cooked  your 
favorite  cereal,  fill  each  cavity  heaping  full  with  it  and  pour  the 
boiling  sirup  over  all.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold  with  cream,  and 
I  will  guarantee  your  little  ones  will  not  longer  refuse  the  health- 
giving  food. 

Frozen  Bananas  —  Cut  six  bananas  crosswise  in  very  thin 
slices;  add  half-pound  of  powdered  sugar  to  them,  let  stand  an 
hour,  then  add  a  quart  of  water  and  the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon. 
When  the  sugar  is  dissolved  put  all  in  a  freezer  and  freeze  as 
you  would  ice  cream.  A  pint  of  cream,  whipped  stiff,  may  be 
added  if  liked.  Serve  with  whatever  kind  of  cake  is  most  con- 
venient. These  frozen  things  suit  better  for  luncheon  than  after 
a  heavy  dinner,  and  take  the  place  of  tea  or  coffee. 

Roasted  Calf's  Heart — Take  a  calf's  heart  and  wash  it  thor- 
oughly in  cold  water;  cut  out  the  veins  and  arteries.  Make  a 
stuffing  with  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  bread  crumbs,  one 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  onions,  one  saltspoonful  of  powdered 
sage,  one-half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  pepper.  Moisten  with  milk  or  water,  put  into  the  cavity 
caused  by  the  removal  of  the  arteries  and  sew  the  edges  together. 
Put  in  a  deep  dish  and  half  cover  with  boiling  water  in  which  an 
onion  has  been  placed.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  one  hour,  basting 
every  ten  minutes;  add  more  water  if  necessary.  When  half 
cooked  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pep- 
per. When  the  heart  is  done  you  may  make  a  gravy  by  thicken- 
ing the  water  that  is  left  in  the  dish  with  a  teaspoonful  flour 
wet  in  cold  water.  You  will  find  this  a  very  nice  occasional  dish 
for  dinner  and  a  very  inexpensive  one. 

Salad  a  la  Columbine — Skin  five  medium-sized  smooth  red 
tomatoes,  place  each  in  a  cup  and  barely  cover  with  seasoned 
gelatine.  When  cold  and  ready  to  serve,  turn  out  and  place  a 
spoonful  of  mustard  dressing  on  each. 

Corn  Pudding — Take  six  small  or  four  large  ears  of  corn,  cut 
the  thinnest  possible  shaving  from  the  rows  of  corn  on  the  cob; 
then  a  heavier  layer,  and  so  on  until  it  is  all  cut  off.  This  is 
much  nicer  than  grating  or  scraping,  as  it  is  not  so  mushy  and 
does  not  make  the  pudding  so  solid.  There  should  be  about  two 
cups  of  this  pulp.  Take  two  eggs  well  beaten,  stir  in  the  corn, 
add  a  level  tablespoonful  of  butter,  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  stir  thor- 
oughly and  gradually  add  two  cups  of  sweet  milk.  Pour  into  a 
pudding  dish  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.    Serve  hot  with  the  meat- 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  S29 

Blackberry  Cobbler — This  is  a  southern  dish  sometimes  called 
"family  pie."  Take  a  yellow  pudding  dish,  line  it  with  pastry  and 
fill  with  ripe,  luscious  blackberries  or  dewberries  well  picked 
over  (it  will  take  about  a  pint  and  a  half).  Sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  cover  with  a  top  crust,  which  has  been  rolled  thin,  douDied 
together  and  gashed  with  a  knife;  open  out  plate  on  top  ana 
press  the  edges  down  with  a  fork,  unless  you  have  learned  the 
art  from  some  "old  mammy"  of  making  a  rolled  edge  with  the 
thumb  and  finger.  Bake  slowly  one-half  hour  and  serve  with 
cream  or  butter  and  sugar.  This  is  also  good  cold  if  any  should 
be  left  over,  which  is  not  probable.  .  Alice  J.  Withrow. 

Lexington,  Va. 


SUNDAY,  JULY  THE  EIGHTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 
Cracked  wheat  with  rich  milk  and  sugar. 
Poached  eggs  on  toast.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 
Stuffed  calf's  heart  with  browned  onions. 

Rice  with  tomato  sauce. 

Cornstarch  pudding  with  crushed  fruit. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Asparagus  soup. 

Roast  leg  of  mutton,  browned  potatoes. 

Green-corn  oysters.  Vegetable  salad. 

Berry  roll  with  sauce.  Coffee. 


Stuffed  Calf's  Heart — If  people  only  knew  how  delicious  a 
calf's  heart  is,  it  would  be  more  popular  and  the  butchers  would 
ask  more  than  10  cents  for  it.  In  Prance  it  is  considered  a  deli- 
cacy. Make  stuffing  as  for  a  turkey  of  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs 
seasoned  with  teaspoon  butter,  quarter-teaspoonful  salt  and  three 
dashes  of  pepper,  with  a  pinch  of  sage  or  thyme.  Fill  the  cavity 
full,  tie  a  buttered  paper  over  end  to  keep  in  place.  Bake  for  one 
hour,  basting  often.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  browned  flour.  Gar- 
nish the  dish  with  spring  onions  size  silver  dollar,  boiled  almost 
done,  then  put  in  pan  with  the  heart  to  finish  cooking  and  brown 
slightly. 

Rice  with  Tomato  Sauce  —  Three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  rice 
cooked  in  milk  boiler;  do  not  stir.  When  done,  while  yet  hot, 
mold  into  cones  by  putting  into  egg  cups  for  five  minutes  and 
turning  out  on  to  platter.  Boil,  strain  three  large  tomatoes, 
thicken  with  tablespoon  flour;     one-half  teaspoonful  salt,   one- 


330  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

quarter  salt  spoonful  of  pepper,  one  tablespoon  butter;  pour 
very  hot  on  rice  cones. 

Cornstarch  Pudding — One  pint  rich  milk,  two  tablespoons  of 
cornstarch  moistened  with  a  little  of  the  milk,  three  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  two  eggs  well  beaten;  heat  milk  to  near  boiling;  add 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  the  sugar,  then  the  dissolved  cornstarch; 
stir  constantly;  when  uniformly  smooth  add  the  eggs  and  let 
boil  two  minutes;  pour  into  mold  to  cool.  When  turned  out  for 
table  pour  over  it  the  crushed  fruit.  Prepare  this  by  crushing 
a  box  of  red  raspberries  or  other  fruit  with  three-quarters  cup  of 
powdered  sugar  and  three  tablespoons  of  water;  stir  well;  allow 
to  stand  one  hour. 

Asparagus  Soup — Get  a  small,  lean  beef  bone  (5  cents);  sim- 
mer two  hours;  allow  three  bunches  of  asparagus  to  boil  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  in  pot;  do  not  unite  these  until  done;  then 
cut  off  the  tender  tips  of  two  bunches  and  return  to  soup;  re- 
serve the  other  for  our  vegetable  salad;  rub  the  asparagus  stalks 
through  the  colander  until  all  pulp  has  dropped  into  the  pot;  add 
to  one-half  pint  of  rich  milk  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  white  pepper;  heat  and  thicken  with  heaping  tablespoon 
of  flour;  pour  into  soup  and  allow  it  to  boil  up  once.  A  delicious, 
creamy  soup. 

Vegetable  Salad  —  Line  platter  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 
Cut  up  and  place  upon  it  one  crisp  cucumber.  Three  firm  toma- 
toes, tips  of  one  bunch  of  asparagus  saved  from  soup,  and  three 
beets  thoroughly  done  and  cooled.  Pour  over  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. 

Berry  Roll — Make  rich  biscuit  dough;  roll  out  into  one  large 
square  (or  two  smaller  ones).  In  center  of  square  heap  berries, 
cherries  or  any  fresh  fruit,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Pinch  the  ends  and  edges  well  as  you  fold  over.  Bake  in  moder- 
ate oven.  Serve  with  butter  and  powdered  sugar  creamed  to- 
gether, or  with  any  plain  sweet  sauce  or  plain  cream  and  sugar. 

Mrs.  Laura  Torbert. 

No.  2552  Prairie  avenue,  Chicago. 


MONDAY,  JULY  THE  NINETEENTH. 
[An  economical  day  of  New  England  dishes.] 


BREAKFAST. 

Fine  hominy  with  cream  and  maple  sirup. 

Egg  toast.  Hot  blueberry  cakes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Mutton  broth,  Boston  brown  bread. 

Warm  gingerbread  and  cream. 

Iced  cocoa. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  331 

DINNER. 

Black  bean  soup. 

Brown  fricassee  of  veal. 

Boiled  potatoes.  French  beets. 

Lettuce,  perfect  dressing. 

Peaches. 


To  make  this  day  a  success  economically  beef  shortening 
must  be  appreciated  and  understood,  as  it  is  even  better  than 
butter  for  many  recipes. 

Beef  Shortening — Take  all  scraps  of  good  beef  fat  left  from 
roasts,  steaks,  corned  beef  or  the  liquor  it  is  boiled  in  or  fresh 
suet  bought  for  the  purpose.  Cut  up  in  pieces,  first  removing 
every  trace  of  meat  and  scraping  off  burned  and  blackened  places. 
Place  in  an  old  granite  saucepan  with  one  potato  scrubbed  and 
cut  up,  skin  and  all.  Heat  slowly  till  fat  begins  to  melt  so  that 
it  won't  stick  and  burn.  Stir  or  shake  occasionally  and  squeeze 
with  spoon  till  fat  is  all  melted  out  of  meat  fiber.  Strain  at  once 
into  stone  jar  or  old  muffin  tins.  Should  be  clear  and  congeal  to 
a  good  cream  color.    Will  keep  as  long  as  butter  in  a  cool  place. 

Egg  Toast — Six  slices  of  bread  half-inch  thick,  two  eggs,  half- 
cup  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  butter  and  one  of 
beef  shortening.  Beat  together  eggs,  milk  and  salt  in  shallow 
dish.  Dip  in  the  slices  of  bread  on  each  side,  drawing  off  what 
does  not  soak  in.  Heat  butter  and  shortening  in  frying  pan,  lay 
in  the  soaked  bread  and  fry  a  good  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve 
hot. 

Blueberry  Cakes — One  pint  sifted  flour,  one  pinch  of  salt,  two 
even  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-quarter  cup  butter,  one-half 
cup  sugar,  one  egg  yolk  and  white  beaten  separately,  one  cup 
milk,  one  heaping  cup  huckleberries  or  blueberries.  Sift  to- 
gether flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder  two  or  three  times.  Cream 
butter,  add  sugar  and  beat  again.  Add  beaten  yolk,  then  milk. 
Stir  in  the  flour  and  beat  thoroughly.  Add  white,  beaten  stiff,  and 
lastly  the  berries  picked  over,  washed  and  sprinkled  with  flour. 
Bake  in  muffin  tins  about  half  an  hour.  Sour  milk  may  be  used, 
with  one-half  teaspoon  soda  instead  of  the  baking  powder. 

Mutton  Broth  —  Two  pounds  lean  neck  of  mutton,  cut  up 
small  bones  and  all.  Cover  with  four  quarts  cold  water  and  add 
one  small  onion  sliced  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Wash  and  soak  one- 
half  cup  rice  and  add  to  the  broth  as  soon  as  it  is  fairly  boiling. 
Keep  all  well  covered  and  boiling  steadily  an  hour  and  a  half  or 
two  hours,  until  creamy  and  thick  with  the  rice.  Skim  out  meat 
and  bones  and  set  broth  where  it  will  cool  so  that  any  fat  may 
be  removed.  Cut  meat  up  fine,  removing  bones,  and  heat  with 
the  broth,  adding  one  small  tablespoon  salt.  If  any  is  left  over 
it  makes  an  excellent  addition  to  a  tomato  soup  next  day. 

Boston  Brown  Bread  (sour  milk) — Mix  in  the  order  given 
one  exact  half-cup  white  cornmeal,  one-half  cup  rye  flour,  one- 
half  cup  graham  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  good  half  tea- 


332  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

spoon  soda  pulverized,  and  beaten  into  oae-quarter  cup  molasses; 
and  one  and  a  quarter  cups  of  sour  milk.  Steam  three  hours.  11 
you  have  not  the  regulation  brown  breat  tin,  the  oatmeal  boiler, 
v/ell  greased,  makes  a  good  steamer  and  a  nice  shaped  loaf. 

Gingerbread — A  piece  of  beef  shortening  size  of  an  egg  melted 
in  one  cup  boiling  water;  add  one  cup  molasses,  then  two  cups 
flour,  in  which  are  sifted  one  teaspoon  fine  soda,  one  and  a  half 
teaspoons  ginger  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  well;  bake 
in  a  shallow  tin  in  a  quick  oven.  Should  not  be  cut  while  hot, 
but  may  be  lightly  broken  and  eaten  without  fear  of  indigestion. 

Iced  Cocoa — This  should  be  made  of  all  milk,  and  chilled 
without  adding  any  cold  milk.  Beat  thoroughly  just  before 
serving. 

Black  Bean  Soup — Soak  over  night  one  pint  black  beans.  In 
the  morning  pour  off  the  water  and  add  two  quarts  fresh  cold 
water.  Set  them  on  to  boil  slowly.  Slice  one  small  onion,  fry  in 
one  tablespoon  butter  or  beef  shortening  to  a  light  brown  and 
add  to  the  beans.  Simmer  four  or  five  hours  or  till  beans  are  soft, 
adding  a  little  cold  water  if  they  boil  too  hard.  When  soft  rub 
the  beans  through  a  soup  strainer,  put  the  soup  on  to  boil  again 
and  thicken  with  one  tablespoon  of  flour  cooked  in  one  of  butter 
(to  prevent  beans  from  settling).  Now  add,  if  you  have  it,  a 
little  water  in  which  corned  beef,  a  salt  tongue  or  a  ham  have 
been  boiled  or  the  bone  or  a  bit  of  the  meat.  This  gives  a  better 
taste  than  any  amount  of  salt  and  pepper  seasoning.  There 
should  be  two  quarts  of  soup  when  finished.  Pour  over  slices  of 
hard-boiled  egg  and  lemon,  which  should  be  served  in  each  plate. 
Serve  very  hot  with  croutons. 

Brown  Fricassee  of  Veal — Two  pounds  lean  veal  off  the  cheap 
part  of  the  leg.  Remove  fat  and  bone  and  cut  meat  in  two-inch 
"gobs."  Put  the  bones  on  to  simmer  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover. 
Salt,  pepper  and  flour  all  over  each  "gob"  of  meat.  Heat  one 
tablespoon  butter  and  one  of  beef  shortening  in  frying-pan  (or 
two  tablespoons  of  either  alone)  and  fry  meat  brown  all  over. 
Remove  and  if  fat  is  all  used  up  add  as  much  more.  Fry  brown 
one  small  onion  sliced  and  two  tablespoons  flour.  Add  the  sim- 
mering water  from  the  bones  and  stir  till  smooth,  adding  more 
water  or  a  little  sour  milk  to  make  sauce  enough  to  cover  the 
meat.  Strain  over  the  meat  and  stew  slowly,  closely  covered  tov 
two  hours.  This  will  make  tender  the  tough  parts  of  veal  or  beef 
and  is  a  delicious  dish.  Add  more  salt  and  pepper  if  needed  just 
before  serving. 

French  Beets — These  are  baked  instead  of  being  boiled  and 
retain  a  much  better  flavor  and  juiciness.  Select  beets  of  even 
size,  wash,  and  allow  plenty  of  time  to  bake  till  tender,  about 
three  hours.  Peel,  slice  and  serve  hot  with  dabs  of  butter,  salt 
and   pepper. 

Lettuce  with  Perfect  Dressing — This  is  a  pretty  dish  to  finish 
at  table  while  the  meat  course  is  being  cleared  away.  Arrange 
the  lettuce  beforehand  in  a  bowl  with  the  leaves  standing  up  so 
that  the  dressing  can  get  down  into  them  when  poured  over.    For 


THE   CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  333 

the  dressing  prepare  a  soup  plate  or  small  bowl  by  rubbing  with 
onion.  In  this  mix  two  saltspoons  salt  covered  lightly  with  pep- 
per and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Melt  with  one  tablespoon  vinegar 
and  add  two  or  three  tablespoons  salad  oil.  Stir  all  together 
with  a  small  lump  of  ice  until  it  thickens  and  looks  opaque.  Re- 
move ice  and  pour  dressing  lightly  over  every  bit  of  the  lettuce. 

The  gingerbread  left  from  luncheon  may  be  cut  in  small 
squares  or  diamonds  and  covered  with  powdered  sugar,  when  it 
looks  like  new.  Mrs.  V.  C.  Sanborn. 

LaGrange,  111. 


TUESDAY,  JULY  THE  TWENTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Pears. 

Sliced  Baked  Ham. 

Light  rolls.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Tomatoes,  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Tea  cakes.  Blackberries,  with  cream. 


DINNER. 

Green-pea  soup. 

Fried  chicken. 

Boiled  green  corn.  Beets. 

Chocolate  wafers.  Peaches  and  cream. 


Baked  Ham — Cover  your  ham  with  cold  water  and  let  it 
simmer  gently,  just  long  enough  to  loosen  the  skin,  so  that  it 
can  be  pulled  off  (this  will  probably  be  in  from  two  to  three 
hours,  according  to  the  size  of  your  ham).  When  skinned,  put 
in  a  dripping  pan  in  the  oven,  pour  over  it  a  teacup  of  vinegar 
and  one  of  hot  water,  in  which  dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  English 
mustard.  Bake  slowly,  basting  with  the  liquid  every  few  minuses 
for  two  hours;  then  cover  the  ham  all  over  to  the  depth  of  one 
inch  with  coarse  brown  sugar,  press  it  down  with  your  hand 
firmly,  and  do  not  baste  again  until  the  sugar  has  formed  a  thick 
crust,  which  it  will  soon  do  in  a  very  slow"  oven.  Let  it  remain 
in  a  full  hour  after  covering  with  sugar,  till  it  becomes  a  rich 
golden  brown.  When  done  drain  from  the  liquor  in  the  pan  and 
put  on  a  dish  to  cool.  When  it  is  cool,  but  not  cold,  press,  by 
turning  a  fiat  dish  on  top.    The  pressing  makes  it  cut  firmly. 

Light  Rolls — The  bread  must  be  made  in  a  warm  place.  One 
quart  milk,  one  teacup  of  yeast,  one  quart  and  a  pint  of  flour. 
When  this  sponge  is  light,  work  in  a  well-beaten  egg  and  two 


334  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  one  tablespoonful  of 
white  sugar  and  enough  flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Let  this  stand 
five  hours.  Shape  with  your  hands  into  balls.  Put  them  closely- 
together  in  the  baking-pan;  let  them  rise  one  hour.  Bake  half  an 
hour.  Do  not  let  the  rolls  touch  each  other.  The  best  sized  pans 
for  loaves  are  made  of  block-tin,  eight  and  one-half  inches  long 
and  four  and  one-half  wide.  The  pan  should  be  greased  slightly 
either  with  lard  or  butter. 

Boiled  Green  Corn — Choose  full  grown  but  not  hard  corn. 
Test  with  your  nail.  When  right,  the  milk  should  escape  in  a 
jet  and  not  be  thick.  Put  into  boiling  water  and  cook  fast  twenty 
minutes. 

Chocolate  Wafers — This  is  a  favorite  recipe  of  the  wife  of 
Senator  J.  C.  S.  Blackburn,  of  Kentucky.  One-half  cup  of  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  two  ounces  of  grated 
chocolate,  melted,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  dissolve  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour.  Roll 
them,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible.     Bake  quickly. 

Mrs.  S.  M.  Hardy. 

No.  701  W.  Chestnut  street,  Louisville,  Ky. 


WEDNESDAY,  JULY  THE  TWENTY-FIRST. 


[Menu  for  persons  with  impaired  digestions.] 


BREAKFAST. 

Blueberries. 

Granola  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Codfish  and  cream   served  on  whole-wheat  bread  toast. 

Shredded  cereal  coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 
Granose  flakes  in  hot  milk. 
Shredded  wheat  biscuit. 
Chicken  custard. 
Racahout  des  Arabes. 


DINNER. 

Asparagus  soup. 

Broiled  beefsteak.  Baked  potatoes. 

Celery  with  white  sauce. 

Whole-wheat  bread. 

Orange  sherbet. 
After-dinner  coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  335 

The  Granola,  granose  flakes  and  shredded  wheat  biscuit  have 
directions  for  preparing  on  the  outside  of  each  package.  The 
shredded  cereal  coffee  also  has  directions  on  box. 

Codfish,  in  Cream — Cut  salt  fish  into  one-quarter  inch  dice, 
l)0ur  boiling  water  over  it  and  let  stand  for  five  minutes.  Allow 
one  cup  of  thin  cream  to  one-quarter  cup  of  fish;  drain  the  fish, 
add  to  the  boiling  cream  and  serve  on  toast.  A  speck  of  cayenne 
is  a  great  improvement. 

Whole-Wheat  Bread  Toast — Make  the  bread  for  toast  in  this 
way:  One  pint  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one-half  ounce  yeast.  Set  the  yeast  to  rise  mixed 
with  one-half  cup  of  tepid  water  and  the  sugar.  Scald  the  milk, 
and  when  it  is  cool  enough  add  the  yeast,  salt  and  flour;  make 
as  stiff  a  sponge  as  you  can  beat  with  a  wooden  spoon,  probably 
about  flve  cups  of  flour.  Let  it  rise  to  a  little  more  than  double 
its  bulk.  Then  add  as  much  more  flour  as  you  can  work  in  by 
cutting  with  a  knife.  This  bread  does  not  require  kneading,  but 
should  be  handled  lightly.  Now  put  it  into  pans,  kneading  it  a 
very  little;  let  it  rise  once  more,  then  bake  more  slowly  than  you 
do  ordinary  bread — about  forty  minutes;  therefore  do  not  let  it 
get  quite  so  light.  From  this  bread  (grown  stale)  make  thin 
slices  of  toast,  butter  slightly  and  pour  codfish  in  cream  over. 

Shredded  Cereal  Coffee  —  Make  according  to  directions  on 
package  and  serve  with  hot  milk. 

Chicken  Custard — Scald  together  one  cup  of  strong  chicken 
stock  and  one  cup  of  cream.  Pour  it  over  the  well-beaten  yolks 
cf  three  eggs  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  slightly  thickened. 
Add  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt  and  serve  cool  in  custard  cups. 

Racahout  des  Arabes — One-half  pound  best  French  chocolate, 
one  pound  rice  flour,  one-fourth  pound  arrowroot,  one-half  pound 
loaf  sugar  sifted.  These  materials  are  to  be  thoroughly  rubbed 
and  mixed  together.  A  dessertspoonful  of  this  mixture  should  be 
slightly  wet  with  milk  or  water,  then  stirred  into  one  pint  of  boil- 
ing milk  and  boiled  for  flve  minutes.  This  is  excellent  food  for 
invalids  or  convalescents.  Serve  hot  as  a  beverage.  The  amounts 
given  in  this  recipe  will  make  enough  to  last  a  long  time. 

Broiled  Steak — Turn  your  steak  every  ten  seconds  while 
broiling,  as  the  juices  rise  to  the  top  and  run  off  and  are  lost  if 
the  steak  is  not  turned  very  often.  If  steak  one  inch  thick  is 
broiled  for  eight  minutes  it  will  be  very  rare;  if  for  twelve  min- 
utes, it  will  be  rare;    if  for  fifteen  minutes  it  will  be  well  done. 

Celery  with  White  Sauce — Scrape  clean  and  cut  the  celery  ^ 
into  inch  pieces.    Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  half  an  hour,  or 
until  tender.     Drain  and  mix  with  white  sauce.     Celery  is  par- 
ticularly good  for  nervous  or  rheumatic  people. 

White  Sauce — One  pint  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half 
saltspoonful  pepper.  Heat  the  milk  over  hot  water.  Put  the  but- 
ter in  a  granite  saucepan  and  stir  until  it  melts  and  bubbles. 
Add  the  drj''  flour  and  stir  quickly  until  well  mixed.  Pour  on 
one-third  of  the  milk.     Let  it  boil  and  stir  well  as  it  thickens. 


336  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

Add  another  third  of  the  milk.  Let  it  boil  up,  and  thicken  and 
stir  vigorously  until  perfectly  smooth.  Be  sure  all  the  lumps  are 
rubbed  out  while  in  this  thick  state.  Then  add  the  remainder 
of  the  milk;     let  it  boil,  and,  when  smooth,  add  the  salt  and 

Denner 

Orange  Sherbet— Two  and  a  half  cups  water,  one  and  a  half 
cups  sugar,  juice  of  five  oranges,  juice  of  one  lemon;  boil  the 
sugar  and  water  together  for  about  twenty-five  minutes;  when 
cool  add  fruit  juice  and  freeze;   serve  in  small  glass  cups. 

After-Dinner  Coffee— Use  the  cereal  coffee,  using  double  the 
amount  of  coffee  that  you  do  for  breakfast  coffee. 

Anonymous. 


THURSDAY,  JULY  THE  TWENTY-SECOND. 

BREAKFAST. 

Dr.  Martin's  breakfast  food. 

Grape  marmalade. 

Hot  buttered  toast.  Deviled  beef. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Salmon  salad.  Bread  and  butter. 

Easy  sponge  cake.  Iced  tea. 

Cantaloupe. 


DINNER. 

Chicken  curry  with  rice. 

Baked  sweet  potatoes.  Sliced  tomatoes. 

Blackberry  charlotte. 

Chocolate. 


Dr.  Martin's  breakfast  food  makes  a  delicious  porridge; 
directions  for  making  on  package,  and  to  be  served  with  cream 
and  sugar. 

Grape  Marmalade— At  this  season  there  is  so  much  fresh 
fruit  on  hand  that  the  housekeeper  will  find  herself  with  "left- 
overs." About  the  most  satisfactory  way  of  using  up  a  small 
quantity  of  fruit  is  to  make  it  into  marmalade.  Take  the  grapes 
which  have  dropped  from  the  bunches  and  take  the  seeds  out; 
then  weigh  or  measure,  and  allow  measure  for  measure  of  fruit 
and  sugar.  Place  all  together  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  boil 
slowly  twenty-five  minutes;  then  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to 
every  quart  or  pound  of  fruit.  Set  away  in  marmalade  or  jelly 
glasses  and  serve  very  cold.    Place  in  ice  box  the  night  before. 

Deviled  Beef— Take  slices  of  cold  roast  beef,  rub  with  a  little 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  337 

mustard  if  liked,  lay  them  on  broiler;  broil  over  hot  coals. 
Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  with  little  lumps  of  butter  on  each  slice. 
Sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  all. 

Cantaloupe  Melons  —  These  should  be  cut  in  half  and  the 
seeds  removed  before  sending  to  the  table.  A  tablespoonful  of 
strained  honey  in  each  half  is  very  nice. 

Easy  Sponge  Cake — Three  eggs  beaten  one  minute,  one  and 
one-half  cups  sugar  beaten  with  egg  for  five  minutes;  add  one 
cup  flour  and  beat  one  minute;  one-half  ciip  of  cold  water,  and 
another  cup  of  flour  in  which  has  been  mixed  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder;  beat  all  together  one  minute.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven. 

Chicken  Curry — Boil  a  chicken  with  great  care,  skimming 
constantly  and  keeping  covered  with  water.  When  tender,  take 
out  the  chicken  and  remove  the  bones.  Put  a  large  lump  of  but- 
ter into  a  spider,  dredge  the  chicken  meat  well  with  flour,  and 
lay  in  the  hot  spider;  fry  a  nice  light  brown;  keep  hot  and  dry. 
Do  not  allow  it  to  get  hard.  Take  a  pint  of  the  chicken  broth 
and  stir  into  it  two  teaspoonfuls  of  curry  powder,  two  of  butter 
and  three  of  flour,  one  of  salt.  Stir  till  quite  smooth;  then  mix 
with  the  broth  in  pot;  when  well  mixed,  simmer  five  minutes; 
then  add  the  browned  chicken.  Serve  on  large  dish,  garnished 
with  rice. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes — Scrub  well  with  a  small  brush  kept 
for  that  purpose.  Bake  as  you  would  Irish  potatoes,  only  giving 
them  longer  time.  When  ready  to  serve,  place  on  a  hot  potato 
cloth  or  napkin,  crack  open  each  one  and  place  a  piece  of  butter 
inside. 

Blackberry  Charlotte — Make  a  boiled  custard  with  one  quart 
of  milk,  yolks  of  six  eggs  ind  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar; 
flavor  to  taste.  Line  a  large  ^lass  dish  with  slices  of  sponge 
cake  dipped  in  sweet  cream,  then  a  layer  of  blackberries  well 
sweetened,  then  another  layer  of  cake  and  berries  as  before. 
When  the  custard  is  cold,  pour  it  over  the  whole;  then  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  and 
flavor  to  taste;  heap  up  on  the  top  and  decorate  with  large 
berries.  Frances  Pearson. 

Box  67,  Nappanee,  Ind. 


FRIDAY,  JULY  THE  TWENTY-THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cherries  au  natural. 

Cerealine  flakes. 

Eggs  in  surtout. 

Ojalda.  Coffee. 


338  THE   CHICAGO    RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Veal  croquettes. 

Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Stewed  currants. 

Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Baked  haddock  with  sauce. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Creamed  carrots. 

Cabbage  salad. 

Dewberries.  Angel  food. 

Coffee. 


Cherries  au  Natural — Arrange  a  layer  of  fresh  cherry  leaves 
around  the  edge  of  a  dainty  china  or  glass  dish.  On  this  lay 
cherries  (fresh  gathered  if  possible),  with  stems  on  them. 

Cerealine  Flakes — One  measure  of  liquid  to  each  measure 
of  cerealine.  Cook  half  an  hour.  Water  alone  can  be  used  for 
cooking  any  of  the  cereals,  but  most  of  them  are  richer  and  finer 
flavored  when  the  liquid  used  is  milk  and  water,  mixed  in  about 
equal  proportions.  The  quantity  of  salt  that  should  be  used  in 
cooking  cereal  is  largely  a  matter  of  individual  taste,  as  some 
people  like  considerable  and  others  very  little  salt  in  their  food. 
A  safe  general  rule,  however,  to  follow  is  to  add  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  to  each  pint  of  liquid. 

Eggs  in  Surtout — Boil  half  a  pound  of  bacon  cut  in  thin  slices 
and  fry  some  bits  of  bread  and  butter;  put  three  spoonfuls  of 
cullis  into  the  dish;  garnish  the  rim  with  fried  bread,  break  some 
eggs  in  the  middle,  cover  them  with  rashers  of  bacon  and  do 
them  over  a  slow  fire. 

Ojalda — This  is  a  most  delicious  form  of  bread  to  eat  with 
coffee  or  chocolate.  Take  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  put  it  on  the 
bread-board  and  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  pile;  drop  into 
it  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard;  wet 
this  up  with  salted  water  until  a  stiff  paste  is  formed;  work  this 
well,  lifting  it  and  throwing  it  down  snappishly  onto  the  board 
every  few  minutes  until  it  is  a  light,  smooth  dough  and  full  of 
blisters.  Roll  this  very  thin  and  cut  in  diamonds  and  fancy 
shapes  with  a  pastry  cutter,  cutting  two  or  three  slits  through 
the  middle.  Fry  these  a  light  brown  in  boiling  lard  and  sift 
powdered  sugar  over  them.  They  should  be  crispy  and  melting 
in  one's  mouth.    Nice  for  luncheon  or  breakfast. 

Baked  Haddock  with  Sauce — Use  a  haddock  or  cod  weighing 
about  three  pounds  and  remove  the  flesh  from  the  bones  in  as 
large  strips  as  possible,  then  scrape  off  the  small  pieces.  The 
head  and  skeleton  of  a  fish  are  at  least  one-third  of  the  whole 
weight.  Take  a  solid  three-quarters  cup  of  crumbs,  using  the 
white  part  of  a  stale  loaf.  Butter  a  pudding  dish  and  sprinkle 
with  some  of  the  crumbs.    To  the  remainder  of  the  crumbs  add 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  339 

a  very  little  thyme,  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  bit  of  cayenne, 
an  egg  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Add  plenty  of  milk  to 
moisten  it.  Lay  some  of  the  fish  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  sprin- 
kle with  salt  and  pepper,  then  a  layer  of  the  crumbs,  and  last 
the  rest  of  the  fish,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  cut  in  bits. 
This  dish  may  stand  awhile  before  cooking  or  be  set  at  once  into 
-the  oven.  When  it  is  done,  it  should  be  turned  out  on  to  a  plat- 
ter and  be  garnished  if  liked.  It  is  an  agreeable  change  from  the 
usual  way  of  baking  a  fish  whole. 

The  Sauce — For  the  sauce  use  the  water  in  which  the  fish 
skeleton  was  simmered.  Cook  together  a  tablespoonful  each 
of  flour  and  butter  and  dilute  with  the  fish  stock  or  milk,  if  you 
haven't  (as  you  should)  taken  the  trouble  to  save  the  bones,  and 
season. 

Creamed  Carrots — Carrots  are  often  overlooked  as  an  appe- 
tizing and  wholesome  vegetable.  Scrape,  but  do  not  peel,  two 
good-sized  ones,  cut  in  lengthwise  strips  and  then  into  cubes. 
Boil  until  tender  and  serve  mixed  with  a  white  sauce  made  in 
the  proportion  of  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour  creamed 
together  and  cooked  with  a  cup  of  milk.  Season  with  an  even 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper. 

Cabbage  Salad — This  salad  requires  about  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  chopped  cabbage.  The  cabbage  should  have  the  loose  leaves 
removed,  the  stem  cut  out,  and  then  be  laid  in  cold  water  twelve 
hours.  Chop  rather  fine,  pour  over  and  mix  with  it  a  boiled 
dressing.  Heat  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk  and  beat  two  egg 
j'olks  with  a  fork.  Mix  with  the  egg  a  half-teaspoonful  of  mus- 
tard, one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  granulated 
gelatine  that  has  been  softened  in  a  little  cold  water,  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  sugar  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne.  Cook  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  flour  together  and  add  half  a  cup  of  vinegar.  Now 
cook  the  milk  and  egg  mixture  together  like  a  soft  custard  and 
combine  with  the  other  part.  This  dressing,  if  sealed  tight,  will 
keep  a  long  time.  When  the  cabbage  and  dressing  are  mixed, 
fill  little  individual  molds  and  set  away  to  cool.  After-dinner 
coffee  cups,  wet  in  cold  water,  make  good  molds.  Bits  of  red  beet 
or  half  olive  put  in  the  bottom  of  the  mold  before  the  cabbage 
is  put  in  will  make  a  pretty  garnish  when  the  salad  is  turned 
out.  Nannie  K.  Van  Keuren. 

No.  412  South  Boulevard,  Oak  Park,  111. 


SATURDAY,  JULY  THE  TWENTY-FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cantaloupe. 

Southern  pancakes. 

Hash  omelet. 

Coffee. 


340  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Lady  Washington  rolls. 

Jellied  tongue.  Watercresses  with  French  dressing. 

Old  Virginia  chess  cakes. 

Pineapple  preserve. 

Milk. 


DINNER. 

Louisiana  gumbo  file. 

Beefsteak.  Lettuce  with  cooked   dressing. 

Corn  pudding. 

"Snap"  beans. 

Mrs.  William  G.  Carlisle's  queen  of  puddings. 

Peaches  served  whole. 


"To  be  a  good  cook  means  the  knowledge  of  all  fruits,  herbs, 
balms  and  spices,  and  of  all  that  is  healing  and  sweet  in  groves 
and  savory  in  meats.  It  means  carefulness,  inventiveness, 
watchfulness,  willingness  and  readiness  of  appliances.  It  means 
the  economy  of  your  great-grandmothers  and  the  science  of  mod- 
ern chemistry;  it  means  much  tasting  and  no  wasting;  it  means 
English  thoroughness,  French  art  and  American  hospitality;  it 
means,  in  fine,  that  you  are  to  be  perfectly  and  always  ladies  (loaf 
givers),  and  that  you  are  to  see  that  every  to-day  has  something 
nice  to  eat.  John  Ruskin. 

Cantaloupe — Half  them  and  place  a  piece  of  ice  in  each. 

Southern  Pancakes — Beat  four  eggs  and  a  half  a  pound  of 
flour  together  until  smooth;  melt  four  ounces  of  butter  and  add 
with  one  ounce  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  pint  of  milk.  Put 
a  spoonful  at  a  time  in  a  greased  frying-pan,  spread  evenly  over 
the  surface,  turn  and  serve  hot. 

Hash  Omelet — Stir  finely  chopped  meat  (you  can  use  meat 
left  from  the  day  before  or  scraps  of  ham)  with  six  well-beaten 
eggs  and  fry  like  an  omelet.  This  makes  a  nice  variation  of  an 
every-day  dish. 

Lady  Washington  Rolls — It  is  a  tradition  in  Virginia  that 
these  rolls  were  frequently  served  to  the  first  President  of  the 
United  States.  Scant  a  pint  of  milk  and  let  cool;  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  sugar  each; 
stir  until  well  mixed,  sift  in  two  quarts  of  flour  and  beat  for  five 
minutes;  add  half  a  cupful  of  yeast,  cover  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  over  night.  Knead,  sift  in  flour  to  make  soft  dough,  work 
well,  put  back  in  the  bread-pan  and  keep  warm  for  an  hour; 
work  down,  make  out  in  little  rolls,  put  in  a  greased  pan,  stand 
in  a  very  warm  place  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  and  bake  in 
a  very  hot  oven. 

Jellied  Tongue — This  is  a  recipe  prepared  by  Mrs.  S.  B.  Buck- 
ner,  and  was  often  on  her  table  when  her  husband  was  governor 
of  Kentucky.    Boil  the  tongue  until  tender,  so  that  the  skin  will 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK..  341 

pull  off  readily.  Cut  in  thin  slices  and  arrange  in  mold,  having 
previously  laid  slices  of  lemon  on  bottom.  Cover  with  jelly  made 
of  one  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Add  one 
quart  of  boiling  water  less  a  cup,  juice  of  four  lemons,  two  cups 
of  sugar.    Strain  well.    Let  stand  twelve  hours  before  using. 

Watercresses  with  French  Dressing — Wash  the  cresses  care- 
fully and  put  ice  on  them.  Three  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  one  of 
vinegar,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 
Put  the  salt  and  pepper  in  a  cup  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  the 
oil.  When  thoroughly  mixed  add  the  remainder  of  the  oil  and 
the  vinegar.  If  you  like  the  flavor  of  onion,  grate  a  little  juice 
into  the  dressing.  The  juice  is  obtained  by  first  peeling  the  onion 
and  then  grating  with  a  coarse  grater. 

Old  Virginia  Chess  Cakes — This  is  a  cake  our  grandmothers 
and  grandfathers  loved,  but  which  is  rarely  seen  now.  A  pint  of 
flour  mixed  with  a  large  spoonful  of  lard,  a  pinch  of  salt;  make 
up  with  ice  water.  This  crust  is  baked  in  small  pans  in  a  quick 
oven  and  then  filled  with  the  following:  Three  eggs  beaten  thick 
with  sugar,  quarter-teacup  of  butter,  half-teacup  of  milk,  turned 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  and  half  a  nutmeg.  Put  back  in 
the  oven  until  brown  on  top. 

Pineapple  Preserve — To  every  pound  of  fruit  put  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Peel  the  pineapple  in  the  evening;  chop  in  pieces  the 
size  of  a  small  marble;  cover  with  the  sugar  and  let  it  stand  over 
night.  Put  on  the  fire  in  the  morning  and  let  it  cook  until  clear. 
Do  not  put  any  water  in  it.  Add  a  little  lemon  juice  to  fiavor 
when  done. 

Louisiana  Gumbo  File — Cut  a  chicken  into  small  pieces;  di- 
vide at  every  joint.  Dip  each  piece  into  thin  batter  and  fry  a 
light  brown.  Chop  potatoes,  carrots  and  other  vegetables  (no 
cabbage)  very  small  and  fry  in  same  grease.  Put  in  suflacient 
water  for  soup  and  boil  until  all  batter  is  dissolved  and  chicken 
thoroughly  tender.  About  ten  minutes  before  serving  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  file  (which  you  can  buy  at  any  large  grocery);  if 
not  thick,  add  more.  Let  boil  up  once  well  and  serve  with  rice 
cooked  dry. 

Lettuce  with  Cooked  Dressing  —  Yolks  of  three  eggs,  well 
beaten,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  of  cayenne 
pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  oil  or  butter,  one  cup  of  cream,  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  vinegar  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Stir  oil, 
salt  and  mustard  together;  add  well-beaten  yolks.  Beat  well  and 
add  vinegar,  lemon,  foamy  whites  and  cream.  Put  in  a  farina 
boiler  and  stir  constantly  until  thick. 

Queen  of  Puddings — This  is  a  favorite  recipe  of  Mrs.  John  G. 
Carlisle.  Dissolve  one  pint  of  stale  bread  crumbs  in  one  quart  of 
milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one- 
half  cup  of  butter.  Stir  in  the  milk  with  the  bread  crumbs.  Flavor 
with  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind.  Bake  in  a  deep  dish  to  a  light 
brown  or  until  ihe  custard  sets.  Cover  with  the  meringue  made 
with  the  four  beaten  whites  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Set 
in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.    A  dainty  addition  is  to  spread  jelly 


342  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

or  jam  over  the  top  of  the  pudding  before  covering  with  the 
meringue. 

Peaches  Served  Whole— Pick  out  the  nicest  and  put  on  a 
dish  with  some  green  leaves  and  some  ice.  Send  around  pow- 
dered sugar  with  the  fruit,  as  many  people  like  to  dip  peaches  in 
it  after  paring  and  quartering  them.  Mrs.  S.  M.  Hardy. 

No.  701  West  Chestnut  Street,  Louisville,  Ky. 


SUNDAY,  JULY  THE  TWENTY-FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Minced  beef  on  toast.  Apple  sauce. 

Waffles. 

Home-made  sirup.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Brown-bread  sandwiches. 

Sliced  cucumbers.  Huckleberry  cake. 

Iced  buttermilk. 


DINNER. 

Calf's  head  and  tomatoes. 

New  potatoes.  Creamed  cabbage. 

Sea-moss  blancmange. 

Sponge  cake.  Lemonade. 


Apple  Sauce — There  is  apple  sauce  and  apple  sauce.  To  have 
it  fresh  and  sprightly  pare,  quarter  and  slice  thinly  as  rapidly 
as  possible  good,  mellow  apples— just  now  the  Benoni  answers 
that  description — cover  at  once  with  boiling  water  and  boil  rap- 
idly until  soft — no  longer;  sweeten  lightly  at  this  point  with  about 
two  tablespoonfuls  sugar  to  one  pint  of  sauce.  After  six  days  of 
berries  this  is  an  agreeable  change  on  the  seventh. 

Brown-Bread  Sandwiches — Cut  the  bread  in  thin  slices  and 
spread  with  the  following  mixture:  One  teacup  of  any  remnants 
of  fish,  flesh  or  fowl,  chopped  very  fine.  If  not  already  salted  add 
half-teaspoonful  salt  and  two  or  three  dashes  pepper.  Should 
there  be  any  salad  dressing  available  use  it  to  soften  the  meat, 
otherwise  mix  it  with  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one  of 
cream,  either  sweet  or  sour,  one-half  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  or  one 
of  good  vinegar,  and  one  teaspoon  made  mustard.  Serve  the  but- 
termilk cold  from  the  ice,  not  the  ice  in  the  milk. 

Calf's  Head  with  the  Skin  On — Have  the  butcher  saw  the 
head  in  halves  lengthwise  through  the  skull.  Take  out  the 
brains  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  one  hour.  Remove  the  eyes  and 
teeth.  Wash  the  head  well  and  soak  in  cold  water  one  hour;  then 
scald  the  nasal  and  throat  passages.    Wash  again  in  cold  water, 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  343 

put  it  over  the  fire  in  boiling  water  to  nearly  cover  it,  with  one 
bay  leaf,  one  onion,  one  stalk  of  celery  or  one-half  teaspoon  of 
celery  seed,  three  whole  cloves  and  one  teaspoon  salt.  Simmer 
gently  until  tender — about  three  hours — skimming  carefully  at 
the  first  boil.  Remove  the  fiber  from  the  brains,  put  them  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
and  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  take  out,  cut  with  a  silver  knife 
into  small  pieces  and  stand  aside  until  wanted.  When  the  head 
Is  done  take  it  from  the  water,  remove  the  tongue,  skin  it  and 
cut  it  in  slices.  Skin  the  head;  cut  the  meat  from  it  into  nice 
pieces;  put  them  with  the  tongue  and  brains  in  the  center  of  a 
heated  meat  dish  and  keep  warm  while  preparing  sauce.  Put  one 
tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan  to  brown;  add  to  it  two  even 
tablespoons  flour;  mix  smooth;  then  add  one  pint  of  the  liquor 
in  which  the  head  was  boiled;  stir  constantly  until  it  boils,  then 
add  a  tablespoonful  mushroom  catchup,  one  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  one  saltspoon  of  salt  and  two  dashes  of  cayenne.  Simmer 
the  whole  one  minute.  Place  the  fried  tomatoes  around  the  head, 
pour  the  sauce  over  the  whole  and  serve,  and  you  will  think  your- 
self well  paid  for  the  trouble. 

Fried  Tomatoes — Cut  six  smooth,  solid  tomatoes  into  slices 
about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  Dry  each  slice  carefully,  then 
dust  thoroughly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  an  egg  in  a  saucer 
until  light,  add  to  it  a  tablespoon  of  boiling  water.  Dip  each 
slice  first  in  this,  then  in  bread  crumbs.  Put  two  or  three  table- 
spoons of  lard  in  a  frying  pan;  when  very  hot  cover  the  bottom 
with  the  slices  of  tomatoes,  fry  brown  on  one  side,  then  turn 
and  brown  the  other.    Take  up  carefully  with  a  cake  turner. 

Creamed  Cabbage — Chop  fine  as  for  cold  slaw  one  small  cab- 
bage, cover  with  perfectly  boiling  water,  add  soda  size  of  a  pea, 
boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  drain  off  the  water.  Draw  the  cab- 
bage to  one  side  of  the  kettle,  melt  in  the  space  one  tablespoon 
butter,  add  one  tablespoon  flour,  mix  until  smooth;  then  stir  in  a 
cup  of  milk  and  when  it  all  boils  add  a  small  teaspoon  salt.  A 
most  delicate  way  of  preparing  this  vegetable. 

Sea-Moss  Blancmange — The  genuine  sea  moss  must  be  pro- 
cured at  a  druggist's.  Wash  a  handful  of  the  moss  in  several 
waters  to  remove  all  the  grit.  Throw  it  in  a  quart  of  milk  that 
has  been  brought  to  the  boiling  point.  Put  the  whole  in  a  double 
boiler  and  stir  until  enough  of  the  sea  moss  has  been  absorbed 
by  the  milk  to  make  it  thick,  which  can  be  determined  by  trying 
a  little  in  a  cold  dish.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  any  flavoring  that 
is  liked.  Strain  into  molds  and  serve  very  cold  with  sugar  and 
cream.  The  exact  time  cannot  be  given  for  the  cooking,  as  the 
gelatinous  substance  in  the  moss  varies.  Fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes is  usually  enough.  The  sea  moss  gives  a  peculiarly  dainty 
flavor  and  quality  to  the  blancmange  not  obtained  by  any  sub- 
stitute. 

Sponge  Cake — Beat  well  the  yolks  of  nine  eggs;  add  four- 
teen ounces  powdered  sugar  and  beat  until  very,  very  light.  Upon 
this  beating  depends  the  excellence  of  the  cake.    Add  the  juice 


344  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

and  grated  yellow  of  one  lemon.  Then  stir  in  alternately,  a  little 
at  a  time,  very  carefully,  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
five  and  one-half  ounces  of  flour.  Stir  only  enough  to  get  it  well 
mixed  and  bake  at  once  in  pan  ten  or  twelve  inches  square,  in  a 
moderate  oven,  forty  minutes.  Sponge  cake  is  toughened  by  bak- 
ing too  rapidly.  Mark  off  in  squares  with  a  knife  and  break 
instead  of  cutting.  Mrs.  Mary  S.  Peebles. 

Cobden,  111. 


MONDAY,  JULY  THE  TWENTY-SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Blackberries. 

Barley  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Broiled  salt  mackerel.  Peculiars. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Calf's  head-cheese.  Sliced  cucumbers. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Fig  cake.  Iced  tea. 

DINNER. 

Cabbage  and  milk  soup. 

Parmesan  cutlets.  Boiled  potatoes. 

Corn  on  the  cob. 

Blackberry  pudding. 


Barley — Steam  for  four  hours  the  day  before  in  a  double 
boiler  one  cupful  of  pearl  barley  with  one  quart  of  water  and 
three-quarters  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  In  the  morning  add  one 
cupful  of  boiling  water;  stir  thoroughly,  reheat  and  serve. 

Peculiars — Two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  pow- 
der, one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  egg,  one  pint  sweet  milk. 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together,  beat  white  and  yolk 
of  egg  separately  and  add  after  thoroughly  beating  the  sifted  in- 
gredients with  milk.    Bake  in  gem  pans  in  a  quick  oven. 

Calf's  Head-Cheese — Clean  a  calf's  head  and  boil  in  water 
enough  to  cover  it  until  the  meat  leaves  the  bone;  take  with  a 
skimmer  into  a  wooden  bowl;  remove  every  particle  of  bone; 
chop  small.  Season  with  one  level  tablespoonful  salt  and  one 
teaspoonful  pepper.  To  the  liquor  that  remains  in  the  pot,  which 
should  be  about  one  cupful,  add  one-half  package  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water.  Mix  all  together.  Pre- 
pare a  round  stone  dish  by  rinsing  in  cold  water  without  wiping. 
Slice  a  hard-boiled  egg,  lay  in  bottom  of  dish  alternately  with 
sprigs  of  parsley.    Press  meat  in  tightly,  cover  with  cloth  and 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  345 

lay  on  a  heavy  weight.  Set  on  ice.  Must  be  made  early  in  the 
morning.  Turn  out  on  platter,  egg  side  up.  Enough  for  two 
meals.  This  may  be  made  from  the  calf's  head  left  the  previous 
day. 

Fig  Cake — Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of 
butter,  three-quarters  cup  of  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour, 
two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful 
grated  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Work  sugar  and  butter 
to  a  cream,  add  eggs  beaten  separately,  then  milk  and  flavoring. 
Beat  in  the  two  cups  of  flour  thoroughly.  Mix  baking  powder 
with  remaining  flour  and  add,  beating  slightly.  Bake  in  four 
layers.  Filling:  One  pound  of  figs,  one  and  one-half  cups  granu- 
lated sugar,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  the  white  of  one  egg. 
Chop  figs  to  a  pulp.  Boil  sugar  and  water  together  until  when 
taking  a  little  out  in  a  dish  and  beating  it  briskly  it  has  the  con- 
sistency of  confectioners'  sugar  and  water  mixed.  Remove  from 
stove,  add  the  fig  pulp  and  white  of  egg  beaten  stiflly;  place  be- 
tween layers  immediately.    Enough  for  two  meals. 

Cabbage  and  Milk  Soup — One  large  white-heart  cabbage,  two 
quarts  boiling  water,  three  pints  boiling  milk,  one-quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  (two  heaping  tablespoonfuls),  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  pepper. 
Remove  outside  leaves  of  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters,  put  into  the 
boiling  water,  boil  for  one-half  hour.  Take  one-half  of  the  water 
— leaving  cabbage  to  be  used  for  hot  slaw  the  next  day — add  the 
boiling  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  the  flour  and  butter  in  a  skil- 
let until  smooth,  add  some  of  the  soup  and  then  stir  all  together. 
Let  cook  flve  minutes  and  serve  with  croutons. 

Parmesan  Cutlets — Two  pounds  of  veal  cutlets,  one-half  cup 
of  dry  bread  crumbs,  one-half  cup  of  Parmesan  cheese  grated 
(any  ordinary  cheese  may  be  used),  one-half  cup  melted  butter, 
one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  pepper,  two 
beaten  eggs.  Dip  cutlets  in  the  melted  butter,  dust  with  the 
cheese  and  bread  crumbs  mixed;  pour  gently  the  beaten  egg  into 
which  the  salt  and  pepper  has  been  mixed  on  both  sides  of  cut- 
let, dust  again  with  the  bread  and  cheese  crumbs  and  fry  a  deli- 
cate brown. 

Sauce — One-half  pound  macaroni,  one  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  one  cupful  of  strained  tomato  sauce,  one  tablespoonful 
grated  cheese,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of 
cornstarch.  Cover  macaroni  with  water  and  boil  until  it  can  be 
pierced  with  a  straw.  Boil  one  and  one-half  cups  of  tomatoes 
and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Moisten  cornstarch  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  tomato  sauce  and  add  to  the  main  quantity.  Stir 
in  the  salt,  add  the  macaroni  broken  in  inch  lengths  and  the 
cheese   crumbs. 

Blackberry  Pudding — One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  lard,  two  cups 
of  sifted  flour,  one-quarter  spoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  one  pint  of  blackberries.  Beat  sugar,  butter  and 
lard  to  a  cream;  add  beaten  egg,  milk  and  flour  sifted  with  salt 


346  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

and  baking  powder.     Dredge  berries  in  flour,  use  no  juice  and 
add.     Place  in  pudding  molds;   steam  two  hours. 

Sauce — One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  flour,  one  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Mix  butter  and  sugar, 
add  flour,  pour  on  the  boiling  water  and  cook  until  it  foams. 

Florence  Beckett. 

Western  Springs,  111. 


TUESDAY,  JULY  THE  TWENTY-SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 
Iced  melon. 
Eggs  au  lit.  Hominy  croquettes. 

Crumpe+s.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Tomato  salad.  Crackers. 

Ramakins.  Baked  apple  jelly. 

Iced   tea. 


DINNER. 

Corn  soup. 

Fricasseed  chicken.      Potatoes  a  I'ltalienne. 

Celery  salad. 

Peach  leche  cream.  Coffee. 


Eggs  au  Lit — Mince  two  cupfuls  of  cold  fowl  or  veal  and  ham 
in  equal  quantities,  very  fine,  and  rub  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar. 
Add  by  degrees  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful 
salt,  half  as  much  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  parsley  and  two 
beaten  eggs.  Warm  in  a  frying-pan  when  it  is  well  mixed,  stir- 
ring in  a  little  warm  water  should  it  dry  too  fast.  Cook  five 
minutes,  stirring  to  keep  it  from  scorching.  Form  on  a  hot 
platter  into  a  mound,  with  a  ridge  of  the  mixture  running  all 
around.  Lay  in  the  depression  thus  formed  five  poached  eggs. 
Arrange  triangles  of  buttered  toast  in  such  order  at  the  base  of 
the  mound  that  they  will  form  a  pointed  wall  against  it. 

Hominy  Croquettes— To  a  cupful  of  small-grained  salted 
boiled  hominy  add  a  tablespoonful  melted  butter  and  stir  hard, 
moistening  by  degrees  with  a  half  teacupful  of  milk.  Put  in  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  well-beaten  egg.  Roll  into  oval  balls 
with  floured  hands,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  cracker  crumbs  and 
fry  in  hot  lard. 

Crumpets — Three  cupfuls  warm  milk,  half  cup  yeast,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  melted  butter,  one  saltspoonful  salt  and  the  same  of 
soda.    Flour  to  make  a  good  batter.    Set  these  ingredients  as  a 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  347 

sponge,  leaving  out  the  butter  and  soda.  In  the  morning  beat  in 
the  melted  butter  and  the  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  a 
half  cupful  sifted  flour.  Fill  patty-pans  or  muffin-rings  with  the 
mixture.    Let  them  stand  fifteen  minutes  and  bake. 

Ramakins — Beat  together  tv/o  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  melted 
butter,  one  teaspoonful  anchovy  sauce,  one-half  saltspoonful  salt 
and  half  as  much  cayenne;  then  add  three  tablespoonfuls  grated 
cheese  and  lastly  one  tablespoonful  flour  wet  with  cream.  Spread 
thickly  upon  rounds  of  lightly  toasted  bread  and  brown  lightly. 

Baked  Apple  Jelly — Fill  a  tv/o-quart  granite  or  earthen  dish 
with  alternate  layers  of  sliced  tart  apples  and  sugar.  Bake  three 
hours,  closely  covered.  This  is  delicious,  and  should  turn  out  a 
solid  pink  jelly. 

Peach  Leche  Cream — Twelve  peaches  pared  and  sliced,  three 
eggs  and  the  whites  of  two  more,  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar, 
two  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  wet  in  cold  milk,  one  tablespoonful 
melted  butter  and  one  pint  of  milk.  Scald  the  milk,  stir  in  the 
cornstarch,  and  when  it  begins  to  thicken  take  from  the  fire  and 
stir  in  the  butter.  When  luke-warm  whip  in  the  beaten  yolks  till 
all  are  very  light.  Put  the  peaches  into  a  dish,  strew  the  sugar 
over  them,  then  pour  over  the  creamy  compound.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven  ten  minutes  and  spread  with  a  meringue  made  of  the 
five  whites  beaten  stiff,  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar.    Place  in  the  oven  till  this  is  firm.    Eat  cold  with  cream. 

Mrs.  L.  T.  Hunter. 

Warren,  O. 


WEDNESDAY,  JULY  THE  TWENTY-EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Blackberries,  sugar  and  cream. 

Fried  bluefish.  Cornmeal  muffins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cornabeef  salad,  cream  dressing. 

Cold  sliced  bread. 

Cold  tea. 

Cherry  blanc-mange. 


DINNER. 

Soup,  cream  of  beets. 

Broiled  lamb  chops.      Green  peas. 

New  potatoes. 

Currant  paste. 


348  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

Fried  Bluefish— Clean,  wipe  dry  inside  and  out;  sprinkle  well 
with  flour  and  season  each  with  a  good  pinch  of  salt.  Fry  in  hot 
butter  or  sweet  lard.  Have  the  fat  deep  enough  in  the  skillet  so 
the  fish  will  not  stick  to  the  bottom  while  cooking.  The  mo- 
ment the  fish  are  cooked  a  golden  brown  take  them  up  and  drain 
in  a  hot  strainer.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  in  a  well- 
heated  dish. 

Cornmeal  MuflBlns — Sift  two  coffee  cups  of  cornmeal  into  a 
bowl  and  scald  well  with  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  beating  the 
meal  until  perfectly  smooth.  Add  one  dessertspoonful  of  lard, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar,  one 
pint  of  cold  milk  and  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Mix  and  beat  all  into 
a  smooth  batter,  putting  in  the  eggs  last.  Then  sift  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  wheat  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
and  beat  well  into  the  batter.  Have  muffin  pans  greased  and 
heated;  half  flll  each  compartment  and  bake  in  a  good  oven  from 
thirty  to  thirty-flve  minutes. 

Corn  Beef  Salad — Boil  your  beef  the  day  before — select  a  lean 
piece — in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it.  Do  not  let  it  boil  hard, 
but  come  gradually  to  the  boiling  point;  then  cook  slowly  until 
perfectly  tender.  Pull  out  the  bones,  place  it  in  a  dish,  cover  with 
a  large  plate,  in  which  place  an  iron  to  press  the  meat,  and  so 
let  it  remain  until  the  beef  is  cold.  Cut  one  pound  of  it  into  half- 
inch  pieces;  what  remains  will  make  delicious  hash  for  the  fol- 
lowing day  (baked  hash).  Remove  most  of  the  fat,  if  there  is 
any.    Then  make  the — 

Cream  Dressing — Two  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar, 
one  of  rich  cream,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter 
teaspoon  of  mustard,  a  sprinkle  of  cayenne  pepper.  Beat  eggs 
well,  add  the  salt,  mustard,  then  the  vinegar  and  cream.  Place 
the  bowl  with  this  mixture  in  a  basin  of  boiling  water  on  the 
stove  and  stir  until  about  the  thickness  of  rich  cream.  Cool,  and 
when  cold  mix  part  with  the  chopped  meat.  Just  before  time 
to  serve  have  a  head  of  nice  lettuce  well  washed  and  dried  in  a 
cloth.  Place  the  larger  leaves  on  a  platter,  mix  the  small  ones 
with  the  meat,  and  over  all  pour  the  remainder  of  the  salad 
dressing. 

Cherry  Blanc-Mange — One  quart  sour  Merilla  cherries;  wash 
in  cold  water  and  seed;  place  in  the  fire  with  half  a  teacup  of  cold 
water  and  stew  until  tender;  add  a  teacupful  of  white  sugar,  a  tea- 
spoon of  butter  and  two  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  which  have 
been  perfectly  dissolved  in  four  tablespoons  of  cold  water.  Stir 
gently  until  cornstarch  is  cooked  (from  five  to  eight  minutes),  then 
pour  into  a  dish  or  mold  to  cool.    Eat  with  cream. 

Cream  of  Beet  Soup — Four  bunches  of  blood  beets;  pare,  then 
grate  and  strain  through  a  cloth.  Put  on  the  fire  and  let  scald. 
Let  one  pint  of  milk  come  to  a  boil  and  add  it  to  the  hot  juice; 
one  saltspoon  of  salt;  cream;  two  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour 
with  two  of  butter  and  stir  them  slowly  into  the  soup  and  con- 
tinue stirring  until  the  mixture  is  thick  as  a  rich  cream.  Add  a 
sprinkle  of  black  or  red  pepper  as  preferred. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  349 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops — Put  the  chops  in  a  double  broiler  and 
broil  over  or  before  the  fire  for  eight  or  ten  minutes.  Serve  in 
a  hot  dish  with  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  a  small 
pinch  of  salt  for  each  chop  after  they  are  cooked.  The  fire  for 
chops  should  not  be  as  hot  as  for  steak.  Turn  several  times 
while  cooking. 

Peas — Peas  should  be  cooked  in  boiling,  fresh  water,  enough 
to  cover  them  well,  and  not  be  dished  until  perfectly  tender.  It 
is  impossible  to  give  an  exact  time  for  cooking,  as  the  younger  and 
more  freshly  gathered  the  more  quickly  they  will  cook;  from  forty 
minutes  to  an  hour  and  a  ba4f  will  be  needed,  according  to  size 
and  freshness.  When  tender  drain  off  all  the  water,  add  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  to  a 
pint  of  peas  and  serve  in  hot-covered  dish. 

New  Potatoes — Scrape  and  lay  in  cold  water  ten  minutes; 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes;  then  add 
the  salt  (to  one  quart  of  water  half  a  tablespoonful  of  salt)  and 
let  boil  hard  fifteen  minutes  longer.  When  cooked  pour  off  every 
drop  of  water;  take  off  the  cover  of  sauce-pan  and  shake  the  po- 
tatoes for  a  moment  in  a  current  of  cold  air;  then  place  on  back 
of  stove  and  cover  with  a  clean,  coarse  towel  until  ready  to  dish. 

Currant  Paste — Get  perfectly  ripe  red  currants;  stem,  wash  in 
cold  water,  drain  and  place  in  kettle  on  the  back  of  the  stove, 
mashing  so  as  to  start  the  juice.  When  the  juice  fiows  freely  let 
it  come  to  a  boil  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  or  cloth.  To  one 
pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  of  white  sugar  and  an  inch  of  stick 
cinnamon,  and  when  it  again  comes  to  a  boil  remove  the  cinna- 
mon and  thicken  with  three  full  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  flour  which 
has  been  dissolved  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Stir 
constantly  until  the  flour  is  cooked  (about  ten  minutes),  then 
take  off  the  stove  and  pour  into  a  dish  which  has  been  rinsed 
with  cold  water.  When  cold  put  in  the  ice-box.  Eat  with  cream. 
This  is  a  Danish  dessert.  Mrs.  Thomas  Turtle. 

No.  2815  Q  Street,  Washington,  D.  C. 


THURSDAY,  JULY  THE  TWENTY-NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Watermelon. 

Corn  griddle  cakes.  Buttered  toast. 

Coffee.         Radishes. 


LUNCHEON. 

Thin  slices  of  cold  corned  beef. 

Sliced  tomatoes.    Crackers.    Cheese. 

Junket.      Iced  tea. 


350  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Broiled   beefsteak.  Scalloped    potatoes. 

Stewed  okra.      Cucumber  salad. 

Orange  meringue  pudding. 

After  dinner  coffee. 


Broiled  Beefsteak — Select  a  steak  of  medium  thickness,  weigh- 
ing about  two  pounds.  Wipe  and  broil  quickly  over  coals;  take 
up  on  hot  platter,  dot  with  small  pieces  of  butter,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Junket — Warm  one  pint  milk  until  tepid,  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  When  dissolved  stir  in 
gently  two  teaspoonfuls  rennet.  Turn  into  the  serving  dish, 
let  it  stand  ten  minutes,  then  place  carefully  in  a  cold  place. 
Serve  very  cold  with  or  without  sugar  and  cream. 

Junket  is  quite  solid  when  ready  for  use,  which  will  be  in 
a  couple  of  hours  if  left  in  a  cold  place.  Rennet  costs  but  little 
and  makes  a  delicate  dessert. 

Stewed  Okra — Wash  one  pint  young  green  okra,  cut  in  pieces 
crosswise,  place  in  a  granite  stewpan,  cover  with  salted  boiling 
water  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour.  Add  tw^o  large 
tomatoes  that  have  been  peeled  and  chopped  and  stew  ten  min- 
utes longer.  Add  tablespoonful  butter,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pep- 
per and  more  salt  if  needed.    This  is  a  very  nutritious  dish. 

Cucumber  Salad — Peel  three  medium-sized  cucumbers,  cut 
them  into  halves  lengthwise,  taking  out  the  seeds.  Place  them 
in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  When  ready  to  serve  peel  three  small 
tomatoes  and  chop  coarsely.  Chop  also  one  pint  watercress  and 
mix  with  the  tomatoes.  Add  a  few  drops  onion  juice,  one-half 
to  three-fourths  teaspoon  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper. 
Dry  the  cucumbers,  fill  them  with  the  mixture  and  lay  on  let- 
tuce leaves.  Squeeze  over  the  filling  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and 
tablespoonful  of  olive  oil  and  serve  at  once. 

Orange  Meringue  Pudding — One  quart  milk,  one  teaspoonful 
butter;  three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  one  pinch  of 
salt,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  six  oranges.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  light.  Wet  the  cornstarch  in  a  half  cupful  of  the  milk, 
place  the  remainder  on  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler,  and  when  it 
boils  stir  in  the  cornstarch.  Cook  ten  minutes,  add  butter  and 
salt.  Take  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  yolks  and  sugar.  Peel, 
seed  and  quarter  the  oranges,  lay  in  a  baking  dish,  add  a  sprink- 
ling of  sugar  and  pour  over  the  custard.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
twenty  minutes.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  and  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  spread  over  pudding,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar 
on  top  and  brown  quickly.  Eat  cold  with  whipped  cream  or 
a  sauce  made  of  sweetened  and  flavored  milk. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Landis 

No.  1115  North  Clark  Street,  Chicago. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  351 

FRIDAY,  JULY  THE  THIRTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Iced  currants. 

Wheatflakes,  sugar  and  cream. 

Eggs  a  la  Goldenrod. 

Radishes.        Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Beefsteak  hash.      Baked  tomatoes. 

Brown  bread  and  butter. 

Pineapple  compote.         Cocoa   or   tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  lima  bean  soup. 

Halibut— Maitre  d'Hotel. 

Potato   snow.  Young  beets. 

Raspberries   with  Denvonshire  cream. 


Cream  of  Lima  Bean  Soup — Soak  one  cup  dried  lima  beans 
from  the  morning  until  noon;  drain  and  add  three  pints  of  cold 
water.     Boil  the  beans  slowly  for  three  hours. 

Mash  the  beans  on  the  side  of  the  saucepan  with  a  table- 
spoon and  then  strain  all  through  a  sieve.  Cut  two  slices  of 
onion,  and  four  slices  of  carrot  into  small  cubes;  cook  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  until  yellow,  add  one  cup  of  milk,  one 
tablespoon  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  pepper 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  mixed  with  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  milk  or  water.  When  this  is  hot,  stir  it  into  the  boiling  soup. 
Strain  and  serve. 

Halibut-Maitre  d'Hotel — Cut  two  pounds  of  halibut  into 
pieces  three  inches  square.  Dip  each  in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in 
sifted  bread  crumbs.  Pry  in  boiling  lard  till  a  rich  brown.  Rub 
a  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  half  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  one  saltspoon  of  salt 
and  a  half  saltspoon  of  pepper,  mix  and  spread  on  the  hot 
squares  of  halibut,  set  in  the  oven  just  long  enough  to  melt,  then 
serve. 

Beets — Brush  and  scrub  well,  but  do  not  cut,  half  a  dozen 
young,  fresh  beets.  Lay  in  boiling  water  and  boil  rapidly  for  an 
hour.  Plunge  into  cold  water  and  slip  the  skins  off  by  hand.  Cut 
in  eighths  lengthwise  and  pour  over  a  sauce  made  with  two 
tablespoons  butter,  juice  of  the  half  lemon  left  from  the  fish 
sauce,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  two  dashes  cayenne  pepper.  Boil 
up  once  and  pour  hot  over  the  beets  just  before  they  go  to  the 
table. 

Raspberries  and  Cream — Get  two  boxes  of  fresh  red  rasp- 
berries and  fill  five  individual  glass  dessert  dishes  with  them. 


352  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

Sprinkle  each  with  a  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar  and  lay  a 
large  tablespoon  of  Devonshire  cream  in  the  center  of  each. 

Devonshire  Cream— Stand  a  quart  of  good,  fresh  milk  on 
the  ice  for  twelve  hours,  or  in  winter  for  twenty-four  hours,  then 
set  it  on  the  stove  till  almost  at  the  boiling  point.  It  must  not 
bubble,  but  should  show  wrinkles  and  look  thick.  The  more 
slowly  it  is  done  the  firmer  it  will  be.  Place  it  again  on  the 
ice.  On  the  following  day  skim  it  by  folding  over  and  over  in 
small  rolls  and  set  in  the  ice  box  till  wanted. 

Miss  Marian  Cotton. 

No.  6407  St.  Lawrence  Ave.,  Chicago. 


SATURDAY,  JULY  THE  THIRTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Peaches,  with  cream. 

Lamb  chops.  Rice  Muflflns. 

Honey.         Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Fish  salad.  Thin  biscuits. 

Sweet  pickled  apples.    Tea. 


DINNER. 

Boneless  birds.  Brown  sauce. 

Mashed   potatoes.  Cauliflower  in   ambush. 

Lemon  honey.  Coffee,  with  whipped  cream. 


Lamb  Chops — These  may  either  be  broiled  or  fried.  If  fried, 
the  spider  must  be  hissing  hot.  Drop  a  small  lump  of  butter  in 
the  pan,  turning  so  the  whole  surface  will  be  slightly  greased, 
then  put  in  the  chops,  cook  quickly  over  a  hot  fire  till  brown 
on  both  sides,  sprinkle  with  salt,  remove  to  the  back  of  the  stove, 
cover  closely  and  let  stand  a  minute  or  two.  Dish  up  on  a  hot 
platter  and  have  the  plates  hot  also. 

Fish  Salad — Make  a  custard  of  the  yolk  of  four  eggs  and  a 
generous  half  pint  of  milk.  When  it  is  cold  mix  into  it  one  tea- 
spoonful  dry  mustard,  three  to  four  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  In  this  sauce  mix  a 
large  soup  plate  full  of  cold,  flaked  fish  and  three  ounces  of  mac- 
aroni, cut  in  inch  pieces,  and  boiled  till  tender.  It  will  be  nicer 
if  permitted  to  stand  for  a  couple  of  hours  before  serving. 

Thin  Biscuits — One  pint  flour,  one  wine  glass  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful  butter,  one  egg.  Beat  the  egg  till  light,  and  pour  it  on 
the  flour,  then  add  the  milk,  and  lastly  the  butter,  melted.  Work 
it  well,  then  break  off  small  pieces,  the  size  of  a  marble,  roll 


*rHE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  353 

out  thin  as  a  wafer,  sprinkling  with  dry  flour  as  you  roll  them, 
which  will  make  them  crisp.  Prick  each  one  with  a  fork  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sweet  Pickled  Apples — Make  a  sirup  of  one  cup  of  vinegar  and 
two  of  sugar.  Add  a  few  small  pieces  of  whole  cinnamon  and 
some  cloves.  Pare  and  core  sweet  apples;  drop  them  in  the  sirup 
and  let  them  cook  till  tender.  Put  in  a  jar  and  pour  the  sirup  over 
them.  They  are  ready  to  eat  as  soon  as  cold  and  will  keep  for 
any  length  of  time. 

Boneless  Birds — Take  two  pounds  of  veal  cutlet,  cut  in  thin 
slices.  Salt  and  pepper  these;  then  place  on  each  piece  a  bit  of 
butter  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley.  Roll  up  and  tie.  Brown  a 
generous  lump  of  butter  in  your  saucepan,  put  in  the  rolls  and 
let  them  get  nicely  browned  on  all  sides;  then  add  a  cup  of  hot 
water  and  a  bay-leaf,  cover  closely  and  place  where  they  will 
stew  gently  for  an  hour.  Then  take  up,  take  off  the  strings  and 
arrange  on  a  hot  platter  and  pour  over  them  the  following: 

Brown  Sauce — To  the  stock  left  in  the  saucepan  add  a  dash 
of  cayenne  pepper,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  minced 
pickles.    Thicken  with  flour  made  smooth  in  water. 

Cauliflower  in  Ambush — Part  a  medium-sized  head  in  small 
pieces.  Cook  till  tender.  Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  add  three  well- 
beaten  eggs,  cook  till  it  thickens,  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  small  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, and  add  the  cauliflower.  Have  ready  muffins  left  from 
breakfast.  Cut  in  halves,  scoop  out  the  inside,  heat  in  oven.  Pill 
them  with  the  cauliflower,  put  on  tops  and  serve. 

Lemon  Honey — Stir  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  the  yolks  of 
three  into  one-half  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  add  juice  of  two 
lemons  and  grated  rind  of  one,  and  a  tablespoonful  butter.  Cook 
over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  constantly,  till  thick  and  clear  like 
honey;  then  pour  into  custard  cups,  which  have  had  cold  water 
in  them,  and  set  in  the  ice-box  to  cool.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Zeller. 

No.  8828  Buffalo  Avenue,  Chicago. 


SUNDAY,  AUGUST  THE  FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Shredded  wheat. 

Rice  omelet.  Fried  new  potatoes. 

Stewed  red  plums.  Parker  house  rolls. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cold  meat.         Cucumber  catchup. 

Macedoine  salad.  Bread  and   butter. 

Warm  apple  pie.  Tea. 


354  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Corn  soup. 

Breast  of  lamb  with  tomato  sauce. 

Boiled  potatoes.  Fried  new  beets. 

Blackberry  sponge.  Coffee. 


Shredded  Wheat  Biscuits — Should  be  heated  in  oven  and  served 
with  butter  and  sirup  or  sugar  and  cream. 

Parker  House  Rolls  (unfermented) — One  quart  sifted  flour, 
three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  cold  butter, 
one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  of  sugar  and  well-beaten  egg.  Rub 
well  into  flour,  add  pint  cold  milk,  roll  into  smooth  dough  half- 
inch  thick.  Cut,  with  biscuit-cutter,  spread  with  soft  butter.  Fold 
one-half  of  each  over  the  other  and  lay  on  greased  tins.  Rub 
sweet  milk  over  top  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Cucumber  Catchup — Grate  one  dozen  cucumbers,  add  two 
chopped  onions,  one-fourth  pint  salt  and  drain  on  sieve  over 
night.  Then  add  one-third  cup  mustard  seed,  one  teaspoonful 
pepper  and  cover  with  cider  vinegar.  Enough  for  several  days. 
This  may  be  made  in  any  quantity  and  vvill  keep  perfectly, 

Macedoine  Salad — Take  an  even  quantity  of  cold  cooked  vege- 
tables— peas,  beans,  beets  and  potatoes  cut  fine.  Add  a  little 
minced  onion,  cover  with  salad  dressing,  mix  lightly,  and  serve 
very  cold,  garnished  with  bits  of  pickled  beets  and  celery  tops. 

Apple  Pie  (excellent) — For  crust  take  one  large  cup  flour, 
into  which  sift  one-fourth  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  baking 
powder,  rub  in  scant  half-cup  lard.  Mix  with  ice  v/ater,  cutting 
it  into  dough  with  a  knife.  Pare  as  many  Astraehan  apples  as 
can  be  put  in  the  pie,  cut  in  small  pieces,  add  five  or  six  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  one  level  tablespoonful  sifted  flour,  one  of  water 
and  bits  of  butter.  Stir  all  together,  season  with  cinnamon  or 
nutmeg.    Bake  pie  forty  minutes. 

Breast  of  Lamb  with  Tomatoes — Wipe  lamb  with  wet  cloth, 
cut  out  bones,  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter 
teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Put  on  inside  lamb  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs  mixed  with  one  egg,  tablespoonful  butter,  even  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  quarter  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Roll  lamb  and  tie;  put 
in  a  saucepan  with  bones  and  brown  over  hot  fire;  dredge  a  table- 
spoonful of  flour  over  meat  and  brown;  then  add  a  quart  of  toma- 
toes, peeled  and  sliced.  Season  them  with  salt  and  pepper,  add 
enough  boiling  water  to  make  tomato  sauce  the  consistency  of 
gravy.     Cook  lamb  slowly  one  hour. 

Fried  Beets — Wash  without  breaking  skin,  boil  tender,  slice 
and  fry  in  butter;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Blackberry  Sponge — Soak  one-half  box  gelatine  in  one-third 
cup  cold  water  half  an  hour.  Add  one  pint  boiling  water,  one-half 
cup  sugar,  one  cup  blackberry  juice.  Heat;  then  strain  into  a 
tin  basin  set  in  pan  of  cracked  ice.  Let  stand  till  cold  and  thick; 
add  well-beaten  whites  of  four  eggs;  beat  smooth  and  turn  into 
mold  to  harden.    Serve  with  cream  or  not,  Florence  Howe. 

Wauseon,  Ohio. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  255 

MONDAY,  AUGUST  THE  SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheatall  with  rich  milk. 

Corned. beef  hash.  Green  apple  sauce. 

Graham  biscuit.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Potato  salad  with  cold  fish. 

Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Warm  soft  gingerbread.  Buttermilk. 


DINNER. 

Giblet  soup. 

Broiled  beefsteak. 

Mashed  potatoes  a  la  vermicelli.  Sliced  tomatoes. 

Peach  dumplings.  Coffee. 


Corned  Beef  Hash  (Delmonico's  recipe) — Take  equal  quan- 
tities of  minced  corn  beef,  quite  cold,  and  cold  potatoes — baked 
potatoes  not  overdone  preferred.  Mix  well;  put  into  hot  spider 
lightly  greased.  When  thoroughly  heated,  add  to  each  quart  of 
the  hash  a  half-cup  of  sweet  milk,  stir  lightly;  then  put  in  the 
oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  It  will  then  have  a  very  light 
crust  on  both  sides  and  be  very  toothsome. 

Graham  Biscuits — One  quart  of  graham  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  lard  and  butter  size  small  egg,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder  well  stirred  in  the  flour.  Mix  the  dough  with 
sweet  milk,  only  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.  The  quicker  it  is  mixed, 
cut  and  baked,  the  better  the  biscuits. 

Potato  Salad  With  Cold  Pish — This  is  an  easy  and  agreeable 
way  to  use  up  remnants  of  Friday's  dinner.  Remove  the  skin 
from  either  the  whitefish  or  trout  or  any  other  fresh  fish;  tear 
it  into  mouthful  morsels.  Cut  the  potatoes  into  dice;  mince  one 
small  onion  very  fine,  add  cold  boiled  peas,  string  beans,  cauli- 
flower, carrots  or  beets  or  any  remnants  of  vegetables  you  may 
have.  Serve  on  platter  covered  with  lettuce  leaves,  with  French 
or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Warm  Soft  Gingerbread — Melt  butter  size  of  an  egg  and  stir 
into  one  cup  molasses  made  quite  warm;  add  also  one  teaspoon- 
ful ground  ginger  and  one  teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon.  When 
cooler,  add  two  cups  of  flour  twice  sifted,  and  lastly  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda  dissolved  in  tablespoonful  hot  water.  Bake  in 
loaf  form  in  moderate  oven. 

Giblet  Soup — This  soup  is  a  great  success  and  is  very  inexpen- 
sive, a  plate  of  giblets  only  costing  at  market  5  cents.  It  is  a 
very  good  imitation  of  mock  turtle  soup.  The  giblets  of  four 
chickens  or  two  turkej^s  are  required,   one  medium  onion,   one 


356  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK:. 

carrot,  half  a  turnip,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  all  of  which  come 
in  the  ordinary  soup  bunch.  Heat  butter  size  of  egg  in  stewpan, 
throw  in  the  sliced  onion,  later  the  minced  carrot  and  turnip; 
when  tender  and  a  light  brown,  add  the  giblets,  stirring  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour.  Be  careful  to  stir  often  that  tUey  do  not 
burn.  Now  cut  up  giblets  and  put  with  vegetables  into  soup 
kettle  with  tablespoonful  of  salt,  teaspooonful  of  pepper  and  three 
quarts  of  water,  or  stock  in  part,  if  you  have  it,  or  any  chicken 
bones.  Let  this  simmer  slowly  for  three  hours  or  more;  then 
strain  it.  Take  all  the  livers,  mash  into  them  a  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  tablespoonful  browned  flour;  squeeze  the  juice 
of  small  lemon  into  this  and  add  to  the  soup.  Place  in  tureen 
yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  half-dozen  pieces,  pour 
over  the  soup;  serve.  This  recipe  came  from  the  New  York  Cook-^ 
ing  school. 

Peach  Dumplings — Make  quite  a  rich  biscuit  dough;  cut  into 
small  squares.  Pare  peaches  and  cut  in  half;  extract  the  seed, 
put  sugar  in  its  place  and  cover  with  the  other  half.  Put  a  peach 
on  each  square,  with  a  little  sugar  on  top.  Pinch  edges  of  dough 
carefully  together;  bake  half  an  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Serve 
hot  or  cold  with  plain  cream.  Miss  L.  Torbert. 

No.  2552  Prairie  Avenue,  Chicago. 


TUESDAY,   AUGUST   THE   THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sugared  blackberries. 

Hamburg  steaks.  Potato  finger  puffs. 

Velvet  cakes.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Tomato  omelet. 

Thinly   sliced   bread   and   butter. 

Lemon  ice.  Feather  cake. 


DINNER. 

Summer  soup. 

Beef  pie  with  potato  crust. 

Corn   fritters.  Cold   slaw. 

Apple  and  tapioca  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Sugared  Blackberries — Fruit  is  more  acceptable  on  a  hot  sum- 
mer morning  than  cereals,  so  let  us  begin  our  breakfast  with  the 
luscious,  ripe  berries,  which  have  remained  on  ice  until  they 
are  as  cold  as  the  north  pole.  Place  a  quart  of  these  in  a  glass 
bowl,  which  you  have  polished  until  it  sparkles  like  dewdrops 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  357 

kissed  by  the  morning  sun.  Sprinkle  with  pulverized  sugar  each 
layer,  using  about  one  teacup.  The  top  layer  should  be  sugar. 
Serve  in  berry  saucers,  with  cream,  or  not,  as  desired. 

Potato  Finger  Puffs — Pare  four  potatoes  and  boil  until  soft. 
Mash  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  season  with  a  half-tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  When 
cold,  add  one  egg  and  beat  well.  With  floured  hands  mold  into 
finger  puffs  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  in  hot  fat.  Serve  in  a  hot 
dish. 

Velvet  Cakes — To  one  well-beaten  egg,  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  melted  butter,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one-half  pint  of  flour,  .one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar 
sifted  with  the  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  one 
spoonful  of  hot  water.  Beat,  and  bake  at  once  on  a  well-greased 
griddle. 

Tomato  Omelet — Take  five  medium-sized  tomatoes,  chop  fine- 
ly (after  the  skin  is  removed),  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  one 
finely  chopped  onion,  one  teaspoonful  butter,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  pepper  and  one  cracker  pounded 
finely;  cover  tight  and  let  it  simmer  about  an  hour.  Beat  three 
eggs  to  a  froth  and  stir  into  the  tomatoes.  Beat  well  together, 
and  pour  into  a  hot,  well-greased  griddle.  Brown  on  one  side, 
fold  and  brown  on  the  other.     Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Feather  Cake — One  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  one  saltspoon- 
ful  salt  and  one-half  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg.  Bake  in  small 
tins.  When  cold,  cover  with  a  little  icing  and  sprinkle  with 
grated  cocoanut. 

Summer  Soup — In  summer  soup  should  be  light  and  appetiz- 
ing, as  few  people  desire  rich  food  in  any  form  at  this  season  of 
the  year.  Many  very  excellent  soups  are  made  of  vegetables,  and 
the  housekeeper  can  have  her  family  partake  daily  of  light,  health- 
ful soups  at  a  small  cost,  which  will  be  more  acceptable  than  the 
usual  meat  and  fish  soups.  Peel  and  slice  two  potatoes,  parboil 
them  in  enough  hot  water  to  cover  them.  While  they  are  cook- 
ing, chop  two  tomatoes,  slice  the  corn  off  two  ears  of  corn,  and 
add  one  slice  of  onion,  which  you  have  saved  from  breakfast. 
Drain  the  potatoes,  and  put  all  on  to  cook  in  two  quarts  of  cold 
water.  When  done,  rub  all  through  a  colander,  return  the  soup 
to  the  pot,  add  a  level  tablespoonful  butter,  one  teaspoonful  salt, 
one-half  a  one  of  pepper  and  one  of  minced  parsley.  If  not  thick 
enough,  moisten  a  teaspoonful  flour  with  cold  water,  thin  with 
the  soup  and  stir  in;  let  boil  up  once,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 

Beef  Pie  v/ith  Potato  Crust — If  you  have  been  extravagant 
the  day  before  and  have  some  of  your  nice  roast  left  over,  and 
wish  to  economize  to-day,  you  can  take  the  scraps  of  this,  or  any 
cold  meat  that  would  not  look  inviting  served  as  it  is,  and  make 
a  very  wholesome  and  nutritious  dish  by  the  following  recipe: 
Boil  five  large  potatoes  in  salted  v/ater;  when  done,  slice  a  layer 


358  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

of  them  into  a  baking  dish;  then  place  a  layer  of  meat,  a  sprinkle 
of  salt  and  pepper,  also  celery  salt;  then  potatoes  and  meat,  and 
so  on  until  your  dish  is  full.  It  will  take  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  half  one  of  pepper  and  a  saltspoonful  of  celery  salt.  Mash  the 
remainder  of  your  potatoes,  which  should  make  about  a  cupful; 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  When  cool,  add  one  well-beaten 
egg,  one  cup  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  and  beat  all  to- 
gether until  very  light;  then  work  in  enough  flour,  to  which  you 
have  added  one-half  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  to  enable  you  to 
roll  out  in  a  sheet.  When  you  have  poured  over  your  meat  and 
potatoes  a  gravy  which  you  have  made  from  the  scraps  of  fat 
and  bones,  place  this  paste  over  all,  cut  a  cross  slit  in  the  middle 
and  bake.  A  slice  or  two  of  onion  improves  this  pie  to  those  who 
like  the  flavor.  Lucy  Withrow. 

Lexington,  Rockbridge  county,  Va. 


WEDNESDAY,  AUGUST  THE  FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Blueberries. 
Codfish  balls.  Bread  sponge  muffins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Fried  tomatoes. 

Baked  potatoes.  Fresh  graham  bread. 

Tea  (hot  or  iced.) 


DINNER. 

Veal  cutlets,  cream  gravy. 

Green  peas.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Cucumbers. 

Green  apple  governor. 


Blueberries — If  the  morning  is  warm  a  little  finely  pounded 
ice  served  in  each  saucer  of  berries  is  very  refreshing.  Pound  ice 
in  a  flannel  bag  with  a  wooden  mallet. 

Bread  Sponge  Muffins — Set  sponge  as  for  water  bread  late  the 
evening  before.  Allow  one  pint  of  warm  water  for  one  dozeil 
muffins,  to  be  baked  in  gem  pans,  and  use  one-third  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  sponge  a  little  thicker 
than  for  pancakes  and  beat  thoroughly.  In  the  morning  dip, 
without  stirring,  into  greased  gem  pans  and  let  rise  not  less  than 
half  an  hour.     Bake  brown  in  hot  oven. 

If  any  muffins  are  left  they  are  much  like  English  muffins 
if  cut  in  halves  and  toasted. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  359 

By  setting  sponge  for  the  regular  baking  at  night,  and  mixing 
bread  before  brealcfast,  the  muflBlns,  white  and  graham  bread,  can 
all  be  baked  with  the  heat  of  the  morning  fire. 

Fried  Tomatoes — Wash  six  large,  firm  tomatoes,  and  cut 
across  in  halves  without  removing  skin;  sprinkle  with  flour.  Put 
one  teaspoon  lard  and  one  of  butter  in  frying  pan.  When  hot 
place  tomatoes  in  it  with  cut  side  down.  This  prevents  juice  run- 
ning out.  Cover  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  cover,  sprinkle  with 
one  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  half-saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and 
fry  twenty  minutes  until  both  sides  are  brown,  being  careful  not 
to  burn.  Place  on  platter  and  cover  with  a  gravy  made  with  one- 
half  pint  of  milk  poured  in  the  frying  pan  and  thickened  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  made  smooth  in  a  little  milk  and  seasoned 
with  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  pepper. 

Green  Apple  Governor — Peel  and  core  apples  and  slice  thin. 
Fill  a  piepan  heaping  full  of  apples  without  seasoning  or  crust. 
Cover  with  pastry  made  with  kitchen  spoonful  of  shortening,  half 
lard  and  half  butter,  cut  through  two  heaping  kitchen  spoons  of 
flour  and  mixed  lightly  together.  Use  enough  iced  water  to  make 
a  dough  and  roll  thin.  Bake  until  apples  are  tender,  lifting  crust 
in  order  to  be  sure.  When  done  remove  crust  and  place  it  top 
side  down  on  a  plate.  Let  stand  until  crust  and  apples  are  cold. 
Just  before  serving  add  to  the  apples  one  teacup  of  white  sugar 
and  stir  and  mash  until  smooth.  Spread  on  crust  and  grate  nut- 
meg over  the  top.    Serve  with  or  without  whipped  cream. 

Emily  M.  Pryor. 

LaGrange,  111.  

THURSDAY,  AUGUST  THE  FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Melon  iced. 

Salt  codfish  in  puree  of  potatoes.  Toast. 

French  pancakes.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cornish  pasties.  Sliced  tomatoes. 

Thin-sliced  bread. 

Iced  tea  or  raspberry  shrub. 

Blackberry  bread. 


DINNER. 

Bouillon. 

Chicken  pudding.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Scalloped   cauliflower. 

New  peach  cobbler. 


French  Pancakes — Three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  sep- 
arately, one  cup  milk,  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon 
sugar,  one-half  cup  flour,  one-half  tablespoonful  salad  oil.    Add 


360  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

the  milk,  salt  and  sugar  to  the  yolks.  Pour  a  third  of  this  mix- 
ture on  the  flour  and  stir  to  a  smooth  paste;  add  the  remainder 
of  the  milk  and  beat  well;  then  add  the  oil.  Heat  and  butter  a 
small  frying  pan,  and  pour  into  it  enough  of  the  mixture  to  cover 
the  pan.  When  light  brown  turn  and  brown  the  other  side. 
Spread  each  with  jelly,  roll  up,  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 

Cornish  Pasties — One-half  pound  lean  beef  (fresh  or  left  from 
roast  or  steak),  two  potatoes,  one  apple,  one  onion,  one  heaping 
saltspoonful  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  pepper,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  cold  water.  Cut  meat,  potatoes  and  apple  into  small  dice. 
Grate  the  onion,  and  add  it  and  pepper,  salt  and  water  to  the  meat, 
potatoes  and  apple.  Sift  together  two  cups  of  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder,  one  saltspoonful  salt,  rub  in  one-half 
cup  shortening  (good  lard  or  lard  and  butter  in  equal  parts),  stir 
in  enough  cold  water — about  one-half  cup — to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Roll  out  one-quarter  inch  thick,  cut  into  rounds  six  inches  across, 
place  on  each  round  some  of  the  meat  mixture;  brush  the  edges 
with  a  little  beaten  egg  or  milk,  pinch  edges  together  and  bring 
them  to  the  top  of  pastry,  brush  over  with  egg  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  thirty  minutes. 

Raspberry  Shrub — Four  quarts  of  red  raspberries  to  one  quart 
best  cider  vinegar;  let  stand  four  days;  then  strain.  To  each  pint 
of  juice  add  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  boil  twenty  minutes, 
bottle  and  keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place.  To  serve,  fill  as  much  as 
desired  in  a  glass,  add  crushed  ice  and  water.  Very  refreshing 
and  wholesome  in  hot  weather. 

Bouillon — Six  pounds  of  beef  and  bones.  Cut  up  meat  and 
break  the  bones,  add  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  simmer  slowly 
five  hours.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  removing  every  particle 
of  fat.  Season  only  with  salt,  about  a  teaspoonful,  and  one-half 
saltspoonful  pepper.     Sufficient  for  two  days. 

Blackberry  Bread — Stew  blackberries  or  any  other  small  fruit 
and  sweeten  to  taste  (about  one-half  cup  of  sugar  to  one  quart  of 
berries),  and  pour  hot  over  thin  slices  of  bakers'  bread,  buttered 
and  with  crust  cut  off,  making  alternate  layers  of  fruit  and  bread, 
and  leaving  a  thick  layer  of  fruit  for  the  last.  Put  a  plate  on 
top,  and  when  cool  set  on  ice.  Serve  with  sweetened  cream.  In- 
expensive, but  delicious. 

Chicken  Pudding — Dress  and  cut  one  chicken  into  small  pieces, 
put  it  into  a  kettle,  with  water  just  sufficient  to  cover,  let 
simmer  one-half  hour,  add  a  teaspoonful  salt,  and  one- 
eighth  teaspoonful  pepper;  let  simmer  until  tender; 
then  take  out  chicken  and  put  into  a  three-quart  baking  dish. 
Have  ready  one  quart  green  corn  grated,  to  which  add  three  eggs 
beaten  light  and  one  pint  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt 
and  one-eighth  saltspoonful  pepper,  and  pour  this  mixture  over 
the  chicken;  dredge  thickly  with  flour,  lay  on  bits  of  butter  (two 
teaspoonfuls)  and  bake  about  thirty  minutes.  The  broth  in  which 
chicken  was  cooked  can  be  used  for  luncheon  next  day. 

Scalloped  Cauliflower — Choose  close  and  white  cauliflower, 
trim  off  decayed  leaves  and  cut  stalk  off  flat  at  bottom.    Open 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  361 

cauliflower  a  little  in  places  to  remove  insects,  and  let  it  lie 
head  downward  in  salt  and  water  for  two  hours,  which  will 
effectually  draw  out  all  vermin.  Then  put  into  boiling  water,  al- 
lowing one  heaping  tablespoonful  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water;  keep 
the  kettle  uncovered  and  boil  until  tender.  When  done,  place 
them  whole  in  a  buttered  dish  with  stems  down.  Make  a  sauce 
with  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs  beaten  to  a  froth  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter  and  three  of  cream  or  milk,  one  well-beaten 
egg,  a  saltspoonful  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper;  pour  this  over  the 
cauliflower,  cover  the  dish  tightly  and  bake  six  minutes;  remove 
lid  and  brown  nicely.     Serve  in  baking  dish. 

New  Peach  Cobbler — Pill  a  pudding  dish  with  whole  peeled 
peaches,  and  pour  over  them  two  cups  water.  Cover  closely  and 
bake  until  peaches  are. tender;  then  drain  off  the  juice  from  the 
peaches  and  let  stand  until  cool.  Add  to  the  juice  one  pint  sv/eet 
milk,  four  well-beaten  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful 
melted  butter,  a  small  cup  flour,  with  one  teaspoonful  baking 
powder  mixed  in  it.  Beat  well  three  or  four  minutes  and  pour 
over  peaches  in  dish.  Bake  until  a  rich  brown,  and  serve  with 
cream  and  sugar.  Mrs.  George  Hopkins, 

No.   92  37th  street,  Chicago. 


FRIDAY,  AUGUST   THE   SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Apple  sauce. 

Ham  omelet.  Cream  biscuit. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Iced  nutmeg  melon. 

Fried  tomatoes.  Croquettes  of  sweet  potato. 

Ginger  cake.  Tea. 

DINNER. 

Baked  trout  a  la  Chambord. 

Potatoes  Viennoise.  Creamed  onions. 

Beet  salad. 

Sponge  custard.        Coffee. 


Ham  Omelet — Beat  six  eggs  separately.  Take  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  into  one-fourth  of  which  stir  a  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
When  the  milk  boils,  stir  in  the  paste,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  let  cool.  Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
minced  ham,  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  thyme  and  stir  with  the 
yellows,  then  add  the  well-beaten  whites.  Have  a  well-greased 
skillet,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cream  Biscuit — Put  one  quart  of  sifted  flour  Into  a  howl,  add 


362  THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

to  it  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard,  rub  well  together 
with  the  hands  until  the  flour  is  thoroughly  greased,  add  two 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  half-teaspoonful  of  salt, 
six  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  seven  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  or 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough;  mix  and  knead  quickly;  roll  out 
about  one-half  inch  thick  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes. 

Fried  Tomatoes — Wash  and  wipe  four  large  tomatoes,  cut 
each  one  into  three  slices,  season  with  one  even  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one-half  even  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  dust  over  with  flour, 
dip  each  slice  separately  into  beaten  egg  and  cover  with  grated 
bread  crumbs.^  Place  a  large  frying  pan  with  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  lard  or  dripping  over  the  fire  when  hot,  put  in  as 
many  of  the  tomato  slices  as  conveniently  will  go  in  without 
crowding;  fry  a  light  brown  on  both  sides,  remove  to  a  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

Sweet  Potato  Croquettes — Take  two  cupfuls  of  boiled  mashed 
potato.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  add  to  the  potato  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  a  bit  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  half  a  grated  nutmeg  and  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley. 
Mix  and  put  in  a  sauce  pan.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  it  leaves  the 
sides  of  the  pan.  Take  from  the  fire,  cool  and  form  into  rolls 
three  inches  long  and  one  inch  in  diameter.  Dip  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Ginger  Cake — One  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter, 
two  eggs.  Dissolve  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  one-half  cup- 
ful of  milk.  Add  about  two  cupfuls  of  fiour,  in  which  sift  a  tea- 
spoonful of  cream  tartar.  Add  also  a  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 
Bake  slowly  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  square  baking 
tin,  and  when  cool  make  two  layers  and  spread  whipped  cream 
between  and  on  top.  A  little  grated  cocoanut  dusted  over  is  an 
improvement. 

Baked  Trout  a  la  Chambord — Split  the  fish  in  halves,  remove 
the  bone  and  lay  the  fish  in  a  buttered  pan,  skin  next  to  pan; 
cover  the  top  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  slight  sprinkling  of  cracker 
crumbs  and  put  in  oven  to  bake.  The  bones  and  head  of  the  fish 
should  be  chopped  fine  and  put  in  saucepan  with  half  a  cup  of 
butter,  a  small  onion  (cut  up),  and  allowed  to  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes;  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  stock,  let  it  boil  ten  minutes 
and  strain;  add  a  can  of  mushrooms  chopped  fine,  thicken  with 
a  few  cracker  crumbs,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  Anchovy 
paste;  the  trout  will  almost  be  done  by  this  time;  take  it  out  of 
the  oven,  pour  off  all  fat  and  cover  the  fish  with  the  prepared 
sauce;  bake  to  a  finish  and  serve. 

Potato  Viennoise — Boil  eight  peeled  potatoes;  when  done, 
drain  and  press  through  a  potato  press;  mix  one  even  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one-half  even  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  two  ounces  of  butter, 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one-half  gill  of  cream,  and  four  ounces 
of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Mix  well  and  form  the  mixture  into 
round  balls  the  size  of  an  egg.  Sprinkle  some  flour  on  a  pastry 
board,  roll  the  potatoes  into  long  shapes,  thick  in  the  center  and 


THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  863 

pointed  at  the  ends;  brush  them  over  v/ith  beaten  eggs;  make 
two  slanting  incisions  on  top  of  each,  lay  them  in  a  buttered  pan, 
brush  over  again  with  egg  and  bake  to  a  fine  golden  color  in  a  hot 
oven. 

Sponge  Custard — One  pint  of  milk,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  white 
of  one,  if  large,  one-half  ounce  of  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sifted  flour;  flavor  with  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  vanilla.  Heat  the  milk  and  stir  into  the  well-beaten  yolks 
and  sugar,  return  it  to  the  saucepan  and  stir  till  it  thickens.  Melc 
the  gelatine  by  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water  and  setting 
it  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water;  when  melted,  add  it  to  the  milk; 
when  well  mixed,  set  by  to  cool.  As  soon  as  it  commences  to 
congeal  whisk  it  thoroughly  with  an  egg-beater,  and  add  to  it 
gradually  the  white  of  an  egg,  previously  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Beat  it  rapidly  and  until  quite  spongy,  and  fill  a  mold.  Let  it 
cool  five  or  six  hours  at  least.  Dip  the  mold  in  hot  water  when 
ready  for  use.  The  above  quantities  will  fill  a  quart  mold.  It 
can  be  made  the  day  before,  if  convenient. 

Nannie  K,  Van  Keuren. 

No.  412  South  Boulevard,  Oak  Park,  111. 


SATURDAY,  •  AUGUST    THE    SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cantaloupe  on  ice. 

Boiled  eggs.  Graham   gems. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cheese   sandwiches.  Celery. 

Sponge  cake.  Baked  apples. 

Lemonade. 


DINNER. 

Smothered  beefsteak.  Steamed  potatoes. 

Wafer  crackers.  Ladies'  cabbage. 

Deed  suet  pudding.  After-dinner  coffee. 


Boiled  Eggs — Eggs,  even  at  this  time,  are  very  wholesome  for 
the  morning  meal,  if  fresh.  Test  the  eggs  to  see  if  they  are  fresh 
by  dropping  them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water;  those  sinking  first 
are  the  freshest.  Take  ten  of  the  fresh  ones,  put  them  into  a  tin 
pail  and  pour  over  them  two  quarts  boiling  water,  cover  and  set 
away  where  they  will  keep  hot  and  not  boil  for  ten  or  twelve 
minutes.  The  heat  of  the  water  cooks  the  eggs  slowly  and  evenly 
through,  like  any  other  food,  and  they  are  much  nicer  than  when 
boiled  in  the  ordinary  way,  and  should  be  eaten  from  the  shell. 


364  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

Cheese  Sandwiclies  —  Take  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  three- 
quarters  pound  common  fresh  cheese  grated,  one  saltspoonful 
salt,  one  teaspoonful  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  prepared  mustard, 
three  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  vinegar 
or  cold  water.  Put  yolks  of  eggs  into  a  small  bowl  and  mash; 
add  to  it  butter  and  mix  smoothly  with  a  spoon;  add  salt,  pep- 
per, mustard  and  cheese,  mixing  each  well.  Lastly  put  in  the 
vinegar  (or  water,  if  vinegar  is  not  liked),  which  will  make  it  of 
the  proper  consistency.     This  is  easily  made  and  very  nice. 

"Never  Fail"  Sponge  Cake — A  good  sponge  cake  should  be 
yellow  as  gold,  of  velvety  softness  and  tender  as  a  marshmallow. 
if  the  rule  given  is  strictly  followed  such  a  cake  will  be  the 
sure  result.  Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Beat 
the  whites  until  stiff  enough  to  remain  in  bowl  if  it  is  inverted, 
then  beat  into  them-  with  the  beater  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  which 
must  be  granulated  (powdered  sugar  makes  tough  cake  and 
proper  beating  does  away  entirely  with  the  grains).  Beat  the 
yolks,  add  to  them  a  half  cup  of  sugar,  beating  for  five  minutes 
by  the  clock — this  latter  being  important,  as  the  delicate  texture 
of  the  cake  depends  upon  it.  Add  to  the  yolks  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Now  beat  well  together  the  yolks  and 
whites.  At  this  stage  beating  is  in  order,  but  must  be  absolutely 
avoided  after  adding  the  flour,  of  which  take  one  cup.  The 
mixture  should  now  look  like  a  puff  ball,  and  the  flour  is  to  be 
tossed  or  stirred  into  it  with  a  light  turn  of  the  wooden  spoon. 
Stirring  is  quite  different  from  beating.  The  cup  of  sugar  must 
be  generous,  the  flour  scanty.  Bake  for  twenty-five  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Just  before  putting  in  the  oven  sprinkle  on  top 
through  a  sifter  about  a  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar;  this 
gives  the  "crackly"  top  crust  so  desirable. 

Ladies'  Cabbage — Boil  a  firm  white  cabbage  fifteen  minutes, 
changing  the  water  then  for  more  from  the  boiling  teakettle. 
When  tender  drain  and  set  aside  until  perfectly  cold.  Chop  fine 
and  add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  some  pepper 
and  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  milk  or  cream.  Stir  all 
well  together  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  until  brown. 
Serve  very  hot.  This  is  very  much  like  cauliflower  and  is  very 
digestible  and  palatable. 

Deed  Suet  Pudding — Two  cups  flour,  sifted,  with  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one  cup  of  beef  suet,  free  from 
strings  and  chopped  fine,  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  rub  all  to- 
gether thoroughly  between  the  hands,  then  mix  with  fork  into 
a  rather  soft  dough,  with  about  a  cup  of  very  cold  water.  Do 
not  handle  much,  but  roll  out  once  very  quickly  until  half  an 
inch  thick.  Have  ready  prepared  a  two-quart  bowl  with  a  raised 
rim,  line  this  with  the  dough,  bottom  and  sides;  heap  with  any 
fruit  liked;  add  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  water,  cover  with  dough  and  tie  tightly  over  it  a  good-sized 
canton  fiannel  cloth,  rough  side  out,  wrung  very  dry  out  of  cold 
water  and  floured.  Put  into  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water,  with 
a  mufiin  ring  or  pot  lid  on  the  bottom,  and  keep  boiling  for  two 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  365 

hours.  As  the  water  boils  away  it  is  of  great  importance  to 
renew  only  with  boiling  water;  the  teakettle  should  be  kept 
full  for  the  purpose.  Eat  with  cream  and  sugar  or  hard  or  soft 
sauce,  as  liked.  This  will  be  a  new  pudding  in  most  households, 
but  in  reality  is  a  very  old  one  and  a  great  favorite  with  those 
who  once  have  tasted  it.  Guests  always  ask  for  the  recipe.  It 
is  nice  made  with  pieplant,  but  plums  and  peaches  are  delicious. 

Miss  Mae  Dorothy  Pehler. 
No.  323  East  2d  Street,  Winona,  Minn. 


SUNDAY,  AUGUST  THE  EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  apples  with  cream. 

Green  corn  omelet.  Browned  potatoes. 

Buttered  toast.    Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Creamed  beef.  Sliced  tomatoes. 

Thin  bread  and  buttered  sandwiches. 

Warm  gingerbread.  Tea,  hot  or  cold. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  bisque. 

Small  roast  of  veal  with  brown  gravy. 

Whole  boiled  potatoes.  Baked  macaroni. 

Sliced  cucumbers  in  vinegar. 

Snow  pudding.      Coffee. 


Green  Corn  Omelet — Take  four  good-sized  ears  of  very  tender 
sweet  corn,  score  lengthwise  of  the  kernels  and  press  out  the 
pulp  with  the  back  of  the  knife.  Mix  with  five  well-beaten  eggs, 
add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  milk,  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  tvv^o  or  three  dashes  of  pepper.  Have  the  frying 
pan  very  hot,  put  in  a  good  teaspoonful  of  butter;  when  well 
melted,  pour  in  the  omelet.  Cook  with  care,  folding  over  as  soon 
as  it  sets,  and  dish  on  a  hot  platter.  Left-over  corn  may  also  be 
used. 

Browned  Potatoes — Take  potatoes  which  have  been  boiled 
whole  the  day  before,  quarter  them  lengthwise — if  very  large, 
split  the  quarters — and  brown  them  evenly  in  a  hot  skillet,  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  good  meat  drippings. 

Creamed  Beef — Have  half  a  pound  of  nice  dried  beef  thinly 
shaved;  put  in  a  saucepan  or  skillet  with  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  it.  If  the  beef  seems  too  salty,  pour  off  this  water  when  it 
begins  to  boil.  Put  a  cupful  of  fresh  hot  water  on  the  meat  and 
simmer  for  ten  minutes,  keeping  covered.  Then  put  in  a  teacup 
of  good  sweet  milk  and  a  small  tablespoonful  of  butter.    Beat  an 


366  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

egg  light  and  stir  into  it  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Ruh 
smooth  and  stir  into  the  beef;  let  it  simmer  for  about  two  min- 
utes, stirring  well  all  the  time. 

Warm  Gingerbread — Two  coffeecups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  New 
Orleans  molasses,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  warm  water,  one 
egg,  one  dessertspoonful  ginger  (or  more  if  liked),  one  teaspoon- 
ful  soda,  half-teaspoonful  salt.  Put  the  flour  in  deep  earthen 
dish  or  bowl,  mix  the  ginger  and  salt  v/ith  it  thoroughly;  then 
put  in  the  other  ingredients,  dissolving  the  soda  in  the  warm 
water,  but  do  not  stir  until  all  are  in  the  dish.  Then  stir  lightly 
until  well  mixed;  beat  for  three  minutes  and  turn  into  square 
pan  well  buttered.  Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  until  broom 
straw  comes  out  dry.  Use  same  cup  for  all  measurements.  This 
is  very  easy  to  prepare,  and  is  equally  good  warm  or  cold. 

Tomato  Bisque — Prepare  enough  ripe  tomatoes  to  make  a 
quart  when  peeled  and  sliced,  one  small  onion  cut  very  fine; 
put  in  a  granite  kettle  with  a  pint  of  hot  water;  stew  slowly  for 
half  an  hour  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  kettle  and 
stir  in  a  half-teaspoonful  of  soda,  let  it  foam  up  well,  and  add 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  At  the  time  the 
tomatoes  are  stewing  prepare  in  a  double  boiler  a  pint  of  rich 
milk  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  moisten  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  or  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  milk  and  stir  into  the  hot 
milk  just  as  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes  until 
well  thickened,  and  turn  into  the  tomatoes  with  half  a  cupful  of 
rolled  crackers..    Serve  at  once. 

Baked  Macaroni — Break  into  half-inch  pieces  enough  maca- 
roni to  fill  a  large  cup.  Put  it  into  a  large  kettle  of  boiling  salted 
water  and  cook  rapidly  for  twenty  minutes  or  until  tender 
enough  to  cut  easily  with  a  fork.  Turn  it  into  a  colander  and 
let  cold  water  run  through  to  rinse  it.  Put  it  into  a  shallow 
baking  dish  and  cover  with  white  sauce,  made  by  cooking  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour  in  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  in 
small  saucepan;  when  the  flour  is  rubbed  smooth  in  the  butter, 
stir  in  gradually  one  cup  of  hot  milk.  Season  with  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter-spoon  of  pepper.  Spread  this 
sauce  evenly  over  the  macaroni  and  cover  with  a  cup  of  finely 
rolled  crackers  moistened  with  melted  butter.  Bake  until  the 
crumbs  are  brown.     This  is  a  delicious  side  dish  at  dinner. 

Mrs.  M.  M.  Green. 

No.  3808  Prairie  Avenue,  Chicago. 


MONDAY,  AUGUST  THE  NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Huckleberries  with  crackers  and  cream. 
Halibut  and  eggs  on  toast.  Hot  rolls. 

Green-corn  cakes. 
Coffee. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  367 

LUNCHEON. 

Cold  roast  veal  sliced. 

Bean  salad.  Cheese  souffle. 

Graham  bread. 

Berry  tea  cakes.  Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Broiled  mutton  chops  with  tomato  sauce. 

Baked   potatoes. 

Dressed  Cucumbers.  Stuffed  eggplant. 

Peach  meringue.        Coffee. 


Huckleberries  with  Crackers  and  Cream — Pick  over  carefully 
one  quart  of  blueberries  and  keep  them  on  ice  until  wanted. 
Put  into  each  bowl,  for  each  person,  two  soda  crackers  broken  in 
not  too  small  pieces.  Add  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  berries,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  fill  the  bowl  with  cold  sweet 
cream. 

Halibut  and  Eggs  on  Toast — Put  into  boiling  salted  water 
one  pound  of  fresh  halibut,  cook  slowly  fifteen  minutes;  remove 
from  the  water  and  chop  fine,  then  add  one-quarter  of  a  cupful 
of  melted  butter  and  six  eggs  well  beaten,  half  a  teaspoonful  or 
salt  and  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Place  over  the 
fire  a  thick-bottomed  frying-pan  containing  a  tablespoonful  of 
cold  butter;  when  it  begins  to  melt,  tip  the  pan  so  as  to  grease 
the  sides;  then  put  in  the  fish  and  eggs,  stirring  one  way  until 
the  eggs  are  cooked.    Turn  over  toast  dipped  in  hot  salted  water. 

Green-Corn  Cakes — Take  cooked  corn  left  over  from  a  pre- 
vious meal  and  cut  it  from  the  cob.  Put  a  cupful  of  milk  to  every 
cupful  of  corn,  half  a  cupful  of  flour,  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt; 
mix  well  into  a  thick  batter  and  fry  in  very  hot  lard.  Serve  with 
butter  and  powdered  sugar. 

Cheese  Souffle — Melt  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  mix 
smoothly  with  it  an  ounce  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  cayenne 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk;  simmer  the  mixture  gently  over 
the  fire  and  stir  it  all  the  time  till  it  is  as  thick  as  melted  butter; 
stir  into  it  about  three  ounces  of  cheese  finely  grated.  Turn  it 
into  a  basin  and  mix  with  it  the  yolks  of  two  well-beaten  eggs. 
Then  whisk  three  whites  to  a  solid  froth,  and  just  before  the  souf- 
fle is  baked  stir  them  gently  and  thoroughly  into  it  and  pour  the 
mixture  into  a  small  round  tin.  It  should  only  be  half  filled,  as 
the  mixture  will  rise  very  high.  Pin  a  napkin  around  the  dish 
in  which  it  is  baked  and  serve  the  moment  it  is  done.  It  will 
cook  in  twenty  minutes. 

Berry  Tea  Cakes — One  cupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  milk,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  flour  suf- 
ficient to  make  a  stiff  batter  (about  three  cupfuls).  In  this  bat- 
ter stir  a  pint  bowl  of  berries  (any  kind).  Bake  in  muflin  rings. 
Serve  while  warm.    To  be  eaten  with  butter. 


363  THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops  and  Tomato  Sauce — Cut  the  choi3s  from 
a  tenderloin  of  mutton,  remove  a  portion  of  the  fat  and  trim  them 
into  a  nice  shape;  slightly  beat  and  level  them;  place  the  gridiron 
over  a  bright,  clear  fire;  rub  the  bars  with  a  little  fat  and  lay  on 
the  chops.  While  broiling  frequently  turn  them,  and  in  about 
eight  minutes  they  will  be  done.  Sprinkle  each  with  a  dash 
of  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Dish  them  on  a  very  hot  dish, 
rub  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each  chop,  pour  a  tomato  sauce  over 
them  and  serve  quickly. 

Stuffed  Eggplant — Cut  the  eggplant  in  two,  scrape  out  all  the 
inside  and  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  minced 
ham;  cover  with  water  and  boil  until  soft;  drain  off  the  water; 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, half  a  minced  onion,  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
dash  of  pepper.  Stuff  each  half  of  the  hull  with  the  mixture;  add 
a  small  lump  of  butter  to  each  and  bake  fifteen  minutes.  Minced 
veal  or  chicken  can  be  used  in  the  place  of  ham,  in  which  case 
more  salt  must  be  added. 

Peach  Meringue — Pare  and  quarter  (removing  stones)  one 
quart  of  ripe  peaches,  place  them  all  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  a 
cupful  of  sugar  and  cover  them  well  with  the  meringued  whites 
of  three  eggs.  Stand  the  dish  in  the  oven  until  the  eggs  have 
become  a  delicate  brown,  then  remove,  and  when  cool  set  the 
dish  on  ice.  Take  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  to  them  a  pint  of 
milk  sweetened  with  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  flavor  with 
a  dash  of  cinnamon.  Boil  in  a  custard  kettle,  being  careful  to 
keep  the  eggs  from  curdling.  When  cool  pour  into  a  glass  pitcher 
and  serve  with  the  meringue  when  ready  to  use. 

Mrs.  John  Buie. 

No.  170  Harding  Avenue,  Chicago. 


TUESDAY,  AUGUST  THE  TENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Small  melons. 

Omelet  with  peas.  Hot  corn  bread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 
Meat  rissoles.  Fried  tomatoes. 

Creamed  apple  sauce. 
Lady  fingers.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Baked  vegetable  soup. 

Rolled  beefsteak  with  browned  potatoes. 

Summer  squash.       Sliced  cucumbers. 

Apple  pie.  Coffee. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  369 

Omelet  with  Peas — Break  six  eggs  into  a  basin,  beat  thorough- 
ly, adding  a  pinch  of  salt,  dash  of  v/hite  pepper,  and  two  table- 
spoons of  cream.  Have  spider  hot  and  well  greased;  pour  in  and 
shake  almost  continually.  If  one  has  two  tablespoons  of  cooked 
peas  or  asparagus  tops  or  string  beans  they  may  be  heated  and 
added  now,  scatter  on  top  lightly  and  roll  up  in  the  omelet. 

Hot  Corn  Bread — Scald  two  cups  of  cornmeal  with  one  pint 
boiling  sweet  milk;  add  two  tablespoons  sugar  or  molasses,  a 
pinch  of  salt;  let  it  cool  slightly,  then  stir  in  yolks  of  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  also  full  tablespoon  melted  lard  or  butter.  Lastly 
add  the  two  whites,  well  frothed,  stirring  in  lightly.  Grease  and 
heat  pans;  have  oven  hot.  If  in  one  pan  bake  one-half  hour,  if  in 
gem  pans  twenty  minutes. 

Meat  Rissoles — Make  rich  biscuit  dough,  roll  out  into  little 
squares,  put  upon  each  of  these  a  good  spoonful  of  calves'  liver, 
which  has  been  boiled,  seasoned  and  finely  minced  into  a  paste, 
with  a  trifle  of  onion  and  butter  added.  Cold  chicken  meat  or 
veal  is  also  nice  if  liver  is  not  liked,  but  be  sure  whatever  is  used 
is  well  minced  and  seasoned;  add  the  butter  as  you  put  upon  the 
square.  Now  fold  over  the  edges  and  pinch  carefully  together. 
Bake  in  rather  hot  oven;  serve  hot. 

Creamed  Apple  Sauce — One  quart  cold  apple  (green)  sauce, 
one  light  cup  powdered  sugar,  one  cup  rich  milk  (cream  if  pos- 
sible), whites  of  two  eggs,  well  frothed.  Mix  sugar  and  cream 
until  well  dissolved,  then  add  whites  of  eggs  and  pour  over  the 
cold  apple  sauce.  This  dish  will  only  require  six  minutes  if  ap- 
ple sauce  is  ready. 

Baked  Vegetable  Soup — Convenient  to  make  on  baking  day, 
as  it  can  occupy  the  back  of  oven  and  be  taken  out  for  a  time  if 
space  is  needed  and  returned  without  detriment.  Put  into  jar  or 
deep  pan  that  can  be  tightly  covered  about  two  pounds  lean  beef 
or  mutton,  cut  into  many  slices;  one  tablespoon  salt,  one  teaspoon 
pepper,  four  onions,  two  parsnips,  four  carrots,  two  turnips,  six 
potatoes,  six  tomatoes — the  latter  previously  scalded  and  skinned, 
the  others  pared  or  scraped  and  cut  into  pieces  size  of  a  pigeon's 
egg.  Add  to  this  three  quarts  cold  water  when  put  in  oven.  Never 
use  cooked  meat  for  this  soup  and  keep  tightly  covered  always. 
Two  hours  will  make  this  nicely.  If  water  falls  much  below  three 
quarts  add  boiling  water  upon  opening  to  serve. 

Rolled  Beefsteak,  with  Brov/ned  Potatoes — Two  pounds  round 
steak,  remove  the  bone.  Make  dressing  of  two  cups  of  bread 
crumbs  (dry),  one-quarter  pound  salt  pork,  chopped  very  fine, 
dash  of  pepper;  omit  salt,  but  add  seasoning  of  sage,  parsley  or 
onion,  as  preferred.  Spread  this  over  the  steak,  then  roll  up  care- 
fully, tying  at  least  three  places  to  keep  carefully  in  roll  form.  Put 
in  dripping  pan,  with  half  a  pint  hot  water,  and  a  tablespoon  lard; 
bake  in  moderate  oven,  basting  often.  Brown  the  potatoes  in 
same  pan.  Make  gravy  of  drippings  and  pour  over  meat  and  po- 
tatoes served  on  same  platter.    Cut  meat  from  end. 

I  Laura  H.  Clark. 

No.  2552  Prairie  Avenue,  Chicago. 


570  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

WEDNESDAY,  AUGUST  THE  ELEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Blackberries  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Dried  beef  creamed.  Graham  gems. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON.     . 
Scalloped  eggs. 
Cucumber  pickles.  Buns. 

Layer  cake.  Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Green  corn  soup. 

Fried  chicken.      Mashed  potatoes. 

Green  peas.  Bread  and  butter. 

Banana  shortcake.  Coffee. 


Graham  Gems — Two  cupfuls  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful  soda, 
one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  sugar  and  two  cup- 
fuls of  graham  flour. 

Cucumber  Pickles — Take  as  many  small,  crisp  cucumbers  as 
will  fill  a  half-gallon  glass  jar;  cover  with  a  brine  made  of  one 
quart  of  water  to  one-half  cup  of  salt,  and  let  stand  over  night. 
Remove  from  brine.  Pack  as  closely  as  possible  in  jar.  Bring  to 
a  boil  one  cup  of  strong  vinegar  and  one-third  cup  of  water,  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar,  two  sticks  of  cinnamon  and  a  dozen  whole 
cloves  tied  in  a  thin  cloth;  fill  jar  and  close  air  tight.  They  will 
keep  for  any  length  of  time  or  will  be  ready  for  use  in  two  days. 

Fried  Chicken — Joint  a  young  chicken,  wipe  dry  with  a  clean 
cloth  and  roll  in  flour.  Put  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and 
lard  in  roasting  pan  and  have  boiling  hot.  Put  chicken  in  and 
sprinkle  with  one  teaspoonful  salt,  a  half  teaspoonful  pepper  and 
fry  brown  quickly  on  one  side;  then  turn  on  the  other  side,  cover 
closely,  and  immediately  set  in  the  oven  and  bake  one-half  hour. 
Take  the  chicken  out  on  a  hot  platter,  stir  a  teaspoonful  of  flour 
in  a  cupful  of  milk;  pour  in  the  pan,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  dash 
of  pepper;  when  it  boils  up  once  pour  over  the  chicken.  This  is  a 
much  nicer  way  than  where  it  is  cooked  entirely  on  the  top  of  the 
stove. 

Banana  Shortcake — Make  a  nice  baking-powder  biscuit  dough, 
using  a  quart  of  flour.  Roll  out  in  two  sheets  three-fourths  of  an 
inch  in  thickness.  Spread  one  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  put 
the  other  on  top  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Have 
ready  eight  bananas  sliced  thinly;  remove  top  layer,  spread  ba- 
nanas on  lower  layer,  strew  with  one-half  cup  sugar,  replace  top 
layer  and  serve  with  either  sugar  and  cream  or  a  tablespoonful  of 
whipped  cream  over  each  slice.  Nellie  E.  Knee. 

Colesburg,  Iowa. 


THE    CHICAGO    RECORD    COOK   BOOK.  371 

THURSDAY,  AUGUST  THE  TWELFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Blueberries.  Sugar  and  cream. 

Lamb  hash  with  poached  eggs. 

Rolled  wheat  gems. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Slices  of  cold  chicken. 

Tomato  and  lettuce  salad. 

Chicago  sponge  cake. 

Russian  tea. 


DINNER. 

Corn  soup  a  la  royale. 

Beefsteak  broiled.  Baked  new  potatoes. 

Peas  in  cases. 

Milk  sherbet.  Coffee. 


Lamb  Hash— Chop  fine  cold  cooked  lamb  to  make  one  large 
cupful.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  in  a  sauce- 
pan; melt  without  frying;  then  add  a  small  half -pint  of  milk; 
stir  until  boiling;  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  good  pinch  of 
cayenne,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice;  then  stir  in  the  lamb; 
add  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  and  spread  on  toasted  bread,  cut  round 
with  the  biscuit  cutter;  place  a  poached  egg  on  each  round  of 
toast  and  serve. 

Wheat  Gems — Take  one  and  a  half  cups  of  cold  cooked  "rolled 
wheat";  season  with  a  saltspoonful. of  salt,  add  two-thirds  of  a 
cup  of  milk  and  white  flour  to  make  quite  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  well 
and  drop  in  hot  gem  pans;  bake  quickly.    They  are  delicious. 

Sponge  Cake— Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  until  thick,  add 
gradually  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  lemon 
juice  and  grated  rind  and  beat  well.  Add  three-eighths  of  a  cup 
of  hot  water,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  cup 
of  flour  sifted  with  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  level  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  buttered  cake  pan  forty-five  min- 
utes. When  ready  to  use,  break  into  pieces.  Sponge  cake  should 
never  be  cut. 

Corn  Soup  a  la  Royale— Take  the  water  chicken  was  cooked  in 
and  place  on  the  fire;  add  the  remaining  chicken  meat  and  bones 
to  the  stock,  of  which  there  should  be  two  quarts.  Simmer  until 
the  meat  leaves  the  bones,  then  strain;  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  celery  salt.  Add  a  small  cupful 
of  sweet  corn  cut  from  the  ear,  place  where  it  will  cook  slowly  for 
half  an  hour,  and  just  before  serving  add  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream 
or  milk. 


372  THE    CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK    BOOK. 

Miik  Sherbet — Squeeze  the  juice  of  six  large  lemons  on  four 
cupfuls  of  sugar;  put  the  skins  v/ith  a  pint  of  v/ater  on  the  fire, 
and  let  simmer  ten  minutes.  Scald  two  quarts  of  milk,  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  and  one  cupful  of  sugar.  When  cold, 
put  in  the  freezer,  and  when  it  begins  to  stiffen  add  the  sirup  of 
lemon  juice  and  sugar;  then  freeze.  This  is  more  delicious  than 
Ice  cream.  Mrs.  Charles  Adams. 

No.  25  Union  Street,  Hornellsville,  N.  Y. 


FRIDAY,  AUGUST  THE  THIRTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Nutmeg  melons. 

Boiled  rice  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Minced  mutton. 

Bread  and  butter.        Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cheese   toasted   with  eggs. 

Piquant  of  cold  meat. 

Mulberry  shrub. 

Cookies. 


DINNER. 

Southern  court  bouillon. 

Scalloped   onions.  Okra. 

Cold  chocolate  pudding. 

Iced  tea. 


Minced  Mutton — Wash  sheep's  heart  and  lights  very  clean, 
boil  half  an  hour  in  salty  water,  mince  finely.  Mix  a  piece  of 
butter,  with  flour,  brown  in  stew  pan,  add  some  of  the  liquor 
they  were  boiled  in.  Put  in  the  mince  with  small  chopped  onion, 
cover  closely,  let  simmer  a  few  minutes;  add  a  dash  of* pepper, 
a  teaspoon  of  ¥/orcestershire  sauce  and  serve. 

Cheese  Toasted  with  Eggs — One-half  pound  of  cheese.  Beat 
three  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs,  soaked  in  milk,  with  three 
eggs;  add  three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one  tablespoon  made 
mustard,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  lastly  the  cheese  grated; 
spread  evenly  on  slices  of  toast,  brown  quickly. 

Piquant  of  Cold  Meat — Two  cups  cold  roast  meat,  chop  fine- 
ly, add  one  teaspoon  mustard,  one  hard-boiled  egg,  half  teaspoon 
of  salt,  half  saltspoon  of  pepper,  vinegar  to  moisten;  put  in  dish 
and  press.     Slice  when  solid. 

Mulberry  Shrub — Squeeze  the  juice  from  mulberries,  let 
stand  ten  days  or  until  fermentation  ceases.  Carefully  take  off 
scum  and  pour  into  a  fresh  vessel;    let  stand  twenty-four  hours 


THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  373 

and  again  pour  off.  To  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar  allow  thirteen 
ounces  of  juice;  when  it  begins  to  boil  strain  through  jelly  bag, 
and  bottle  and  seal.  Pill  a  glass  one-half  full  of  the  shrub  and 
till  up  with  ice  water. 

Southern  Court  Bouillon— Take  one^fresh  catfish,  weighing 
about  three  pounds,  roll  in  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  a  deli- 
cate brown.  Boil  a  cup  of  rice  until  tender,  season,  put  in  plat- 
ter and  place  the  fried  fish  on  rice.  Make  a  gravy  in  the  pan, 
vv^here  fish  was  fried,  cut  up  three  medium-sized  tomatoes  and 
cook  in  gravy;  pour  over  fish  and  rice.  This  is  an  old  southern 
dish, 

Okra— Wash,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  boil  with  small  piece  of 
salt  pork  twenty  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

Chocolate  Pudding— Two  cups  milk,  one  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful  sugar,  one  tablespoon  cornstarch  mixed  with  sugar,  and  one- 
half  cake  of  grated  chocolate.  Heat  milk  to  boiling  point,  slow- 
ly add  sugar,  cornstarch  and  chocolate;  when  thick  as  custard 
set  off  to  cool;  turn  into  wet  molds,  put  on  ice  and  serve  very 
cold  with  cream  and  sugar.  Mrs.  J.  B,  Holson. 

Farnia,  111. 


SATURDAY,  AUGUST  THE  FOURTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Peaches. 

Macaroni  and  ham.        Bread  and  butter. 

Vinaigrette.        Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Zrazi  a  la  hate.  Fried  potatoes. 

Fruits  macedoine. 

Curly   cakes.  Tea. 

DINNER. 

Russian  chlodnik. 

Beef  tongue.        Sauce  lyonnaise. 

Vegetables  au  gratin. 

French  cherry  pie. 


Macaroni  and  Ham— Boil  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  in  salted 
water  until  it  is  tender;  strain  and  put  in  a  bowl;  then  mix 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ham, 
the  latter  cut  in  small  pieces,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  sour 
cream  and  a  handful  of  grated  cheese.  Mix  it  well.  Then  put 
in  a  greased  pan  and  bake  in  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Vinaigrette — Boil  three  medium-sized  potatoes;  add  to  this 
one  sour  cucumber,  remains  of  meat,  such  as  veal  or  chicken,  or 
fish,  and  if  possible  four  mushrooms.    Cut  all  this  in  thin  pieces. 


374  THE   CHICAGO    RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

Then  aside  of  this  beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg;  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  olive  oil,  adding  a  small  quantity  of  it  at  a  time,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  strong  vinegar,  some  salt  and  white  pepper,  accord- 
ing to  one's  taste.  (The  above  stirring  to  be  done  in  a  cool  place 
and  to  consist  of  a  uniform  motion.)  Line  a  salad  bowl  with  crisp 
lettuce  leaves,  put  in  the  ingredients  mixed  with  the  dressing, 
then  garnish  with  a  hard-boiled  egg,  sliced,  and  a  few  celery  tips. 

Zrazi  a  la  Hate — -Take  half  a  pound  of  very  tender  beef,  cut  in 
inch  wide  pieces,  beat  well,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  one 
grated  onion,  mix  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  Have  ready  a 
pot  with  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  browned  butter,  put  in  the  meat 
and  mix  quickly  and  carefully  until  each  piece  loses  its  raw- 
ness. Then  pour  in  a  half  of  a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  cover  closely 
and  boil  for  a  while.    Take  care  not  to  fry  the  meat  too  long. 

Fruits  Macedoine — Every  kind  of  fruit,  such  as  raspberries, 
gooseberries,  currants  and  musk  melons,  the  latter  cut  in  pieces, 
pour  over  with  sugar,  then  put  it  into  an  ice  box  for  two  hours; 
when  you  will  serve  pour  over  with  fruit  juice. 

Curly  Cakes — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  cup 
of  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  boil  this,  and  while  boiling 
on  a  small  fire  and  stirring  constantly,  pour  in  one  cup  of  flour, 
stir  until  it  no  more  adheres  to  the  pot.  Then  put  in  an  egg, 
mix  thoroughly  and  when  cool  three  eggs  more.  Mix  well  and 
over  a  large  greased  tin  pan  spread  the  dough,  making  it  as  thin 
as  paper;  cut  this  directly  in  square  pieces,  pour  over  sugar  with 
fine  chopped  almonds  and  put  into  a  moderate  oven.  When 
baked  the  color  ought  to  be  golden-brown. 

Russian  Chlodnik^ — Boil  pie  plants  in  water  without  sugar, 
take  one  quart  of  this  liquor  without  the  pie  plants.  While  yet 
hot  put  in  some  chopped  dill,  four  dark  red  beets  cooked  and 
peeled,  two  sour  cucumbers  cut  into  squares,  three  hard-boiled 
eggs  cut  in  slices,  cooked  crabs  peeled  from  their  shells.  Then 
beat  a  pint  of  good,  thick,  sour  cream,  prepare  with  the  ob- 
tained liquor  and  put  into  the  ice  box.  Must  be  served  very  cold. 
This  soup  is  excellent. 

Beef  Tongue — Boil  an  unsmoked  beef  tongue;  when  tender 
peel  off  the  skin,  cut  in  slices,  pour  over  the  sauce,  cover  closely 
and  boil  for  twenty  minutes. 

Sauce  Lyonnaise — Brown  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  the 
same  quantity  of  flour,  add  some  liquor  from  the  boiling  tongue. 
Brown  separately  a  little  of  sugar,  put  into  sauce,  allow  it  to 
boil;  put  also  a  handful  of  stoneless  raisins  and  four  almonds 
cut  finely;  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  and  salt  according  to  one's 
taste. 

Vegetables  au  Gratin— Boil  separately  in  salted  water  a  head 
of  Savoy  cabbage,  cut  into  pieces,  green  peas,  asparagus,  cut  into 
pieces,  and  the  like.  When  soft  drain,  strew  over  it  a  little  bit 
of  sugar.  Lay  some  butter  into  a  tin  pan,  then  cabbage,  then 
grated  Parmezan  cheese;  again  butter,  peas,  cheese,  and  again 
until  all  is  used.  Cover  closely  and  put  for  an  hour  into  a  mod- 
erate oven.    Serve  with  brovv'ned  butter  and  bread  crumbs. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  375 

French  Cherry  Pie — Two  yolks,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh 
butter,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  milk 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough.  Knead  well  and  spread  on 
a  greased  pie  tin,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  it  gets  a  gold- 
en-brown color.  The  day  before  preparation  take  out  the  stones 
of  a  quart  of  red  or  dark  cherries,  mix  richly  with  sugar  and  al- 
io v/  to  remain  over  night.  Next  morning  strain  (reserve  the  juice 
for  our  fruits  macedoine),  take  a  cupful  of  thick  sour  cream,  mix 
with  the  cherries,  pour  over -the  pie  when  the  latter  is  already 
cool  and  put  into  the  ice  box.     This  is  delicious. 

Mrs.   D.   M.   Lande. 

No.  831  Eighth  Avenue,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 


SUNDAY,  AUGUST  THE  FIFTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Crisped  bacon.        Hashed  browned  potatoes. 

Popovers.        Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Scalloped  salmon. 

Cottage  salad.  Baked  apples. 

Brown  bread.        Iced  tea. 

DINNER. 

Maryland  fried  chicken. 

Corn  pudding.        Mashed   potatoes. 

Cucumbers. 

Frozen  souffle.        Coffee. 


Grapes — Lay  several  fresh  grape  leaves  on  a  plate  and  pile  the 
grapes  on  these. 

Scalloped  Salmon — Make  a  cream  sauce  as  follows:  Melt, 
without  browning,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  stir  in  a  pint  of  milk,  and  when  it  thick- 
ens season  with  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  pep- 
per. Take  from  the  flre  until  ready  to  use.  Take  a  pint  of  salmon 
or  any  cold  seasoned  fish  left  from  the  day  before.  Put  a  layer 
of  flsh  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  sauce  and 
a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  and  so  on  until  the  fish  is  used.  Brown 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Maryland  Fried  Chicken — The  chickens  should  always  be 
dressed  and  kept  in  the  ice  box  for  at  least  twelve  hours  before 
using.  Flour  each  piece  and  dust  lightly  with  salt,  and  pepper. 
The  frying  pan  should  be  half  full  of  lard,  and  the  latter  smoking 
hot,  when  the  chicken  Is  put  in.    Then  cover  and  let  cook  slowly 


376  THE    CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

for  half  an  hour,  turning  from  time  to  time.  When  done  pour 
the  fat  from  the  pan  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  let 
brown;  then  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  pour  in  a  cup  of 
milk  and  let  thicken.  Serve  the  gravy  in  a  separate  dish.  Put 
little  strips  of  fried  mush  around  the  chicken.  There  could  be 
no  more  palatable  way  of  cooking  chicken. 

Cucumbers — Cut  four  cucumbers  in  two  lengthwise  and 
scoop  out  all  you  can  without  breaking  the  little  boats  thus 
formed.  Throw  these  into  cold  water  until  needed.  Chop  the 
cucumber  which  has  been  taken  out  with  two  medium-sized 
onions.  Let  this  drain  in  a  colander  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then 
season  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed,  one  tablespoonful 
mustard  seed,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of 
pepper  and  two  dashes  of  cayenne  pepper.  Fill  the  little  boats 
and  serve.  This  mixture  will  keep  in  a  glass  jar,  sealed,  for  sev- 
eral weeks. 

Frozen  Souffle — Take  three  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated 
sugar  and  six  raw  egg  yolks;  whip  slowly,  warming  over  hot 
water  while  beating.  When  an  almost  solid  froth,  remove  and 
cool  the  bowl.  Mix  in  gently  one  pint  of  cream  whipped  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  one  dozen  lady-fingers  cut  in  small  pieces.  Turn 
into  a  mold  which  has  been  wet  in  ice  water^  cover  tightly,  bind 
with  a  buttered  cloth  and  bury  in  ice  and  salt  for  two  hours. 
This  is  a  delicious  dessert,  and  is  a  good  way  to  use  up  yolks  of 
eggs  left  from  white  cake,  angel  food,  etc. 

Mrs.  M,  D.  Adams. 

Box    621,   Alexandria,   Ind, 


MONDAY,  AUGUST  THE  SIXTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Iced  cantaloupe. 

Egg  toast. 

Chip  beef  with  tomatoes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Graham  lunch  bread. 

Cold  sliced  tongue.  Ice  tea. 

Shredded   wheat   biscuit   and   peach   meringue. 


DINNER. 

Clam  soup. 

Veal  cutlet,  cream  gravy.  Succotash. 

Sliced  wheat  bread. 

Tomatoes  with  French  dressing. 

Apple  float. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  377 

Cantaloupe — Select  a  melon  that  feels  heavy  and  solid,  with 
rough  rind.  Wash  in  cold  water,  cut  in  tv/o,  take  out  seeds  and 
place  lumps  of  ice  in  each  half. 

Chip  Beef  with  Tomatoes — Pare  with  a  sharp  knife  two  solid 
ripe  tomatoes;  have  sauce-pan  hot,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter  in  it;  cut  the  tomatoes  into  inch  pieces,  dust  them  with 
sifted  flour  and  stir  into  the  hot  butter  and  let  cook  five  minutes; 
then  add  a  sprinkle  of  white  pepper  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  chip  beef,  cut  very  thin.  With  a  fork  stir  beef  and  tomatoes, 
cover  and  let  all  simmer  for  ten  minutes;  add  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  minced  parsley,  if  preferred. 

Graham  Lunch  Bread — One  and  a  half  pints  of  Graham  flour, 
one-half  pint  wheat  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  three- 
quarters  of  a  pint  of  milk.  Sift  together  the  flour,  sugar,  salt  and 
powder  twice;  add  the  milk  slowly,  make  into  a  smooth  dough 
that  can  be  easily  handled.  Flour  the  board,  turn  out  the  dough 
on  it,  give  it  a  quick,  vigorous  kneading  to  complete  its  smooth- 
ness. Then  divide  into  four  pieces,  form  into  long  loaves,  lay 
them  just  touching  in  a  shallow  pan,  wash  them  over  with  milk 
and  bake  in  rather  hot  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  When  baked 
rub  over  with  a  little  butter. 

Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit  and  Peach  Meringue — Peal  and  slice 
a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  ripe,  juicy  peaches;  put  into  a  bowl  and 
sugar  thoroughly,  an  hour  before  wanted.  Carefully  divide  three 
shredded  wheat  biscuits  into  halves;  place  in  a  pan  in  the  oven, 
until  heated  through.  Then  butter  lightly  and  moisten  with  the 
peach  sirup;  place  in  baking  dish,  add  the  peaches,  cover  and  re- 
turn to  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Have  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
beaten  stiff  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  place  on 
top  of  peaches,  and  place  for  two  minutes  in  open  oven.  Serve 
with  cream.  The  wheat  biscuits  will  be  found  a  delicious  addition 
to  the  peaches. 

Clam  Soup — One  quart  of  clams;  strain  off  the  juice  and  chop 
up  the  clams  very  fine,  and  let  them  cook  slowly  for  an  hour  in 
a  pint  of  the  juice.  Then  stran  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  return 
to  the  fire,  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  quarter  teaspoonful  of 
white  pepper.  Let  one  pint  of  milk  come  to  a  scald,  add  it  to  the 
clam  liquor.  Cream  together  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one 
of  butter.  Stir  slowly  into  the  soup,  let  simmer  until  thick  as 
rich  cream,  and  serve  in  hot  soup  tureen,  with  one  grate  of  nut- 
meg. 

Veal  Cutlets,  Cream  Gravy — Have  two  pounds  of  veal  cutlet 
cut  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  trim  and  flatten,  sprinkle  with 
a  heaping  saltspoonful  of  salt,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  crackers 
pounded  very  fine.  Fry  rather  slowly  in  very  hot  lard  or  good 
bacon  dripping,  turning  when  the  lower  side  is  brown,  and  keep- 
ing covered  as  much  as  possible,  as  the  steam  helps  greatly  to 
make  the  meat  tender.  When  cutlet  is  brown  and  tender  remove 
from  the  sauce-pan  into  a  hot  dish.  Pour  the  fat  off  remaining  in 
pan;  dredge  from  the  flour  box  about  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  into 


378       THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK   . 

the  pan  in  which  meat  was  cooked,  stirring  constantly  until  a  light 
brown,  then  slowly  add  one  cup  of  sweet,  rich  milk,  and  continue 
stirring  until  it  comes  to  a  boil;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  dash  of 
pepper,  strain  and  pour  over  the  meat.    Garnish  with  parsley. 

Succotash — Six  ears  of  sweet  corn,  cut  with  sharp-pointed 
knife  through  the  grain,  then  off  the  cob;  half  a  pint  of  lima 
beans.  Place  beans  in  a  stew-pan,  with  just  enough  boiling  water 
to  cover  them;  let  boil  for  half  an  hour.  Then  add  corn,  boil  fif- 
teen minutes.  Draw  off  water  and  add  a  cup  of  milk.  When  this 
boils  put  in  one  tablespoonful  of  floured  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  let  simmer  ten  minutes. 

Apple  Float — A  dozen  tart  cooking  apples;  wash  and  put  on 
fire  with  water  enough  to  cover  them;  let  cook  until  perfectly 
tender;  drain  off  every  drop  of  water,  and  with  a  large  spoon 
mash  the  apples  through  a  fine  sieve  and  let  cool.  Have  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  perfectly  stiff,  sweeten  apples,  sea- 
son with  nutmeg  and  beat  them  into  the  eggs,  a  little  bit  at  a 
time,  and  place  the  dish  in  icebox  until  ready  to  serve  with  cold 
cream.  Mrs.  Thomas  Turtle. 

No.  2815  Q  Street,  Washington,  D.  C. 


TUESDAY,  AUGUST  THE  SEVENTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  new  apples  with  cream. 

Hashed  veal  with  poached  eggs. 

Toast  a  la  duchesse.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Baked-bean  sandwiches. 

Tomatoes.  French  dressing. 

White  loaf  cake.  Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  young  carrots. 

Collops  of  cold  beef.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Baked  cucumbers. 

Banana  ice  cream.        Coffee. 


Hashed  Veal  with  Poached  Eggs— Put  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter and  one  of  flour  in  a  sauce-pan.  Melt  without  frying,  then 
add  a  small  half-pint  of  milk.  Stir  until  boiling.  Add  a  large 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  good  pinch  of  cayenne,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  onion  juice.  Then  stir  in  one  large  cup  of  chopped  cooked 
veal,  add  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  with  a 
poached  egg  for  each  person. 

Toast  a  la  Duchesse— Cut  neat  pieces   of  stale  bread  iutp 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  379 

squares,  round  or  oblong  shapes;  dip  in  a  batter  made  from  one 
cup  of  milk,  one  beaten  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter,  half 
a  cup  of  sugar^  half  a  cup  of  flour.  See  that  the  bread  is  well 
saturated  with  the  batter,  but  not  so  soft  as  to  break.  Fry  brown 
in  very  hot  butter  or  sweet  dripping,  and  serve  with  butter  or  a 
bit  of  jelly  on  each. 

Bean  Sandwiches — Rub  one  cupful  of  baked  beans  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Add  one  teaspoonful  each  of  chopped  parsley  and  celery, 
one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice  and  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
made  mustard.    Spread  between  thin  slices  of  brown  bread. 

White  Loaf  Cake — Cream  together  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  but- 
ter and  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar.  Add  one-half  of  a 
cupful  of  milk,  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  almond  extract  and  two 
cupfuls  of  sifted  flour.  Beat  well,  add  the  whipped  whites  of  four 
eggs  and  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Beat  again 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Carrot  Soup — Boil  enough  young  carrots  to  make  a  pint  after 
being  rubbed  through  a  colander.  Boil  them  until  very  soft  in  two 
quarts  of  water.  Rub  through  the  colander,  return  to  the  fire,  add 
a  thickening  of  a  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter,  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Add  a  cup  of  milk 
or  cream,  and  serve  with  croutons. 

Collops — It  is  for  the  hardness  of  heart  of  those  who  do  not 
appreciate  the  excellence  of  thin  slices  of  cold,  rare  beef  that  this 
form  of  using  yesterday's  roast  is  given:  Cut  six  neat,  even  slices 
from  the  rarest  portion;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan and  brown  them  quickly  on  either  side;  sprinkle  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour;  add  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  stock  or 
water;  add  a  small  cucumber  sliced  thin  and  an  onion  minced; 
cover,  cook  flfteen  minutes  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  capers,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Dish,  garnish  with 
minced  parsley  and  points  of  toast. 

Baked  Cucumbers — Baked  cucumbers  are  delicious.  Peel 
good-sized  cucumbers,  cut  them  in  two  lengthwise  and  remove  the 
seeds  and  soft  part,  keeping  the  shape  perfect.  To  three  cu- 
cumbers take  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  soft  bread  crumbs,  and 
rub  into  them  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  finely  chopped  onion;  season  this  with  a  large  saltspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  good  dash  of  cayenne.  Sprinkle  a  saltspoonful  of  salt 
over  the  cucumbers,  fill  them  with  the  seasoned  bread  crumbs  and 
bake  until  cucumbers  are  very  soft  and  the  filling  a  nice  brown. 

Banana  Ice  Cream — Pare  and  beat  eight  bananas  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Put  one  pint  of  cream  to  boil  in  a  farina  boiler;  when  hot, 
add  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  stirring  until  dissolved.  Add  the  ba- 
nanas to  the  cream  and  sugar  when  cool;  then  add  one  pint  of 
milk,  and  turn  into  the  freezer  and  freeze. 

Marion  Wilson. 

No.  6407  Lexington  Avenue,  Chicago. 


380  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

WEDNESDAY,  AUGUST   THE  EIGHTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Granola  and  cream. 

Fried  potatoes.  Egg  omelet. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  veal  tongue  sliced. 

Sliced  tomatoes.  Potato  salad. 

Tea,  hot  or  cold. 


DINNER. 

Broiled  steak,  with  Bordelaise  sauce. 

Sweet  potatoes,  baked  with  sugar  and  butter. 

Lima  beans.  Sliced  cucumbers. 

Snow  pudding.        Coffee. 


Cold  Veal  Tongue — Take  two  veal  tongues  and  cook  in  boil- 
ing salted  water  until  tender.  Leave  in  the  water  until  cold  and 
then  remove  the  skin  from  them  and  slice  very  thin.  This  makes 
a  pretty  dish,  garnished  with  celery  leaves  and  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Broiled  Steak,  with  Bordelaise  Sauce — Place  the  broiler  over 
hot  coals  or  on  the  top  of  a  very  hot  stove.  Beat  two  pounds  of 
round  steak  until  tender,  place  on  the  broiler,  and  when  brown 
on  one  side  turn  the  other.  When  done  place  on  a  hot  platter  and 
spread  over  it  hot  melted  butter  and  sprinkle  over  it  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  one  of  pepper.  The  sauce  is  prepared  as  follows, 
and  may  be  served  as  a  separate  dish  or  poured  over  the  meat: 
Chop  one  large  onion  very  fine  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Mash  six  large  ripe  tomatoes  through  a 
sieve  and  pour  in  with  the  onions.  When  it  begins  to  boil  stir 
in  it  one  clove  of  garlic,  chopped  fine,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt  and 
two  of  pepper.     Cook  fifteen  minutes. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Baked  with  Sugar  and  Butter — Steam  four 
medium-sized  sweet  potatoes  until  tender,  or  slice  them 
while  raw,  and  cook  in  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes. 
Drain  from  the  water  and  place  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  bak- 
ing dish.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  place  little  pieces  of  butter 
over  them.  Fill  the  dish  in  this  way,  the  sugar  and  butter  be- 
ing on  top.  Pour  over  them,  nearly  covering  the  potatoes,  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  half 
an  hour. 

Snow  Pudding — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  and  mix 
with  a  little  cold  water.  Pour  on  this  one  cup  of  boiling  water, 
cook  until  it  looks  like  starch.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  one-half  a  lemon,  also  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
beaten  stiff,  and  beat  all  thoroughly  together.  Put  in  a  dish 
and  set  away  to  cool. 


THE  CHIOAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  381 

Sauce:  Boil  one-half  pint  of  milk.  Stir  in  it  two  ounces  of 
sugar,  a  half-tablespoon  of  butter  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs.    Boil  up  once  and  let  it  get  cool. 

Mrs.  W.  U.  Simons. 

No.  227  South  Eighth  Street,  LaCrosse,  Wis. 


THURSDAY,  AUGUST  THE  NINETEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cantaloupe. 

Graham  mush,  molded  with  fruit. 

Eggs,  Newport  style.     Muffins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Baked  liver.    Mustard  pickles. 

Whole-wheat  gems.  Astrakhan  jelly. 

Lemonade. 


DINNER. 

Chicken,  with  cabbage  or  cauliflower. 
Mashed  potatoes.     Sliced  tomatoes. 
Peach  delight.     Delicate  cake. 
Coffee. 


Graham  Mush — To  three  pints  of  boiling  water  use  one  pint 
of  graham  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Sift  the  flour  in  with  left 
hand,  while  stirring  constantly  with  the  right,  in  order  that  it 
may  be  free  from  lumps.  Let  it  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Just 
before  it  is  done  stir  in  a  dozen  or  more  dates  which  have  been 
stoned  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Turn  into  a  dish  which  has  had 
cold  water  in,  to  prevent  its  sticking.  By  the  time  you  are  readj^ 
to  serve  it  will  cut  in  nice  slices.  Use  sugar  and  cream.  Most 
people  make  their  mushes  too  stiff;  they  are  not  nearly  so  deli- 
cate. This  is  nice  with  a  layer  of  jelly,  then  the  cream.  Berries 
and  other  fruits  may  be  used  also.  Steamed  figs,  prepared  the  day 
before,  are  nice  stirred  in.  It  makes  a  fine  dish  for  the  children's 
breakfast  or  luncheon. 

Eggs,  Newport  Style — Take  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs  and 
soak  in  one  pint  of  milk.  Beat  eight  eggs  very  light  and  stir  with 
the  soaked  crumbs,  beating  five  minutes.  Have  ready  a  sauce- 
pan, in  v/hich  are  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  thoroughly  hot, 
but  not  scorching;  pour  in  the  mixture,  season  with  a  dash  of 
pepper  and  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt  as  the  mass  is 
opened  and  stirred  with  the  scrambling,  which  should  be  done 
quickly  with  the  point  of  a  knife  for  three  minutes,  or  until  thor- 
oughly hot.    Serye  on  hot  platter  with  squares  of  buttered  toast. 

Baked  Liver — Soak  the  liver  in  salt  and  water  an  hour  to 
draw  out  the  blood;    wipe  dry.    Take  a  dozen  strips  of  fat  salt 


382  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

pork  as  thick  and  wide  as  your  little  finger.  Make  incisions 
through  the  liver  and  insert  the  pork;  flour  it,  sprinkle  a  little 
salt  over  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  half  an 
hour.  Take  up  liver,  place  on  a  hot  platter.  Put  one-half  cup 
of  boiling  water  in  the  pan,  stir  the  gravy,  add  a  pinch  of  salt, 
a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  then  pour  it  over  the  liver. 
Serve  in  slices  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick. 

Mustard  Pickles — Take  cauliflower,  little  silverskin  onions 
and  small  cucumbers;  have  about  one  peck  in  all.  Look  them 
over  carefully  and  sprinkle  one  cup  of  salt  between  the  layers. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  to  cover;  let  them  stand  all  night.  Drain 
through  colander  and  wipe  dry  the  following  morning.  To  one- 
half  gallon  of  cider  vinegar  take  one-half  pound  of  mustard,  one 
tablespoonful  of  turmeric,  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  of  curry 
powder,  two  tablespoons  of  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pep- 
per. Stir  all  these  last  together  with  a  little  cold  vinegar,  until 
the  lumps  are  out;  then  stir  it  into  the  half -gallon  of  vinegar, 
which  is  on  the  stove  heating,  and  keep  on  stirring  until  it  comes 
to  a  scald.  Pour  this  over  the  pickles,  stir  it  once  or  twice  for 
a  day  or  two  and  then  put  up  in  quart  fruit  bottles.  It  will  fill 
twenty  quart  bottles  and  will  last  for  a  /ear.  They  are  better 
and  much  more  economical  than  to  buy  them  ready  made. 

Whole-Wheat  Gems — Three  cups  of  flour,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  large 
tablespoon  of  lard.  Rub  the  lard  thoroughly  into  the  flour;  add 
enough  water  to  make  a  very  stiff  batter.  An  egg  well  beaten  is 
a  great  improvement.  Pulverize  the  baking  powder  and  stir  it 
in  last.     Bake  in  gem  pans  for  thirty  or  forty-five  minutes. 

Astrakhan  Jelly — Take  Astrakhan  apples,  wash  them,  quar- 
ter and  core,  but  do  not  pare  them.  Cook  until  soft  with  one 
tumbler  of  water  in  a  granite  pan.  Do  this  at  evening;  then  put 
the  apples  in  jelly  bag  and  suspend  over  earthen  dish,  and  let 
them  drain  all  night;  do  not  squeeze  the  bag  if  you  want  your 
jelly  clear.  To  one  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  of  granulated 
sugar;  boil  twenty  minutes;  then  pour  in  jelly  bowls  or  glasses. 
After  a  day  or  two  pour  melted  parafiin  over  the  top  and  seal. 

Stewed  Chicken  with  Cauliflower — Wash  and  cut  the  chick- 
en up  as  usual.  Have  water  to  cover,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  a 
shake  or  two  of  pepper,  and,  if  the  chicken  is  tough,  put  in  a 
piece  of  baking  soda,  size  of  a  pea.  When  it  begins  to  boil  skim 
carefully.  Let  the  cauliflower  lie  in  salt  and  water  for  half  an 
hour.  Then  divide  it  and  put  in  steamer  over  the  chicken.  When 
both  are  done  take  them  out  and  place  neatly  on  large,  hot  plat- 
ter, and  put  in  warming  oven.  Take  two  tablespoons  of  corn- 
starch, stir  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water;  add  this  to  the  gravy 
in  kettle,  and  a  small  lump  of  butter;  if  not  salt  enough  add  a 
trifle  more.  Stir  five  minutes  until  it  thickens  and  tastes  done, 
then  pour  it  over  the  chicken  and  cauliflower. 

Peach  Delight — Take  good,  ripe  peaches;  pare  them,  cut  in 
halves,  leave  a  few  pits  in,  put  them  in  a  granite  pudding-dish, 
a  layer  of  peaches  and  one  of  sugar,  until  you  have  two  layers  of 


THE   CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  ns 

peaches;  dot  it  with  bits  of  butter;  add  one  teacup  of  water.  Use 
one  cup  of  sugar,  in  which  you  have  thoroughly  mixed  two  table- 
spoons of  flour.  Now  make  an  upper  crust  thus:  One  and  one-half 
cups  of  sifted  flour,  one-half  cup  of  lard,  one-third  teaspoon  of  salt, 
just  water  enough  to  mix,  and  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 
Stir  with  knife;  handle  as  little  as  possible  in  rolling  out;  make 
incisions  in  crust  for  juice,  which  will  not  run  over  the  oven  bot- 
tom if  dish  is  deep.  It  needs  no  sauce,  but  cream  may  be  used  if 
you  wish.    Serve  in  pieces  like  a  pie,  with  fruit  on  top. 

Delicate  Cake— One  cup  of  sugar,  two  scant  tablespoons  of 
butter,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  stirred 
in  just  before  you  put  it  in  the  oven.  It  hardly  seehis  necessary 
to  give  all  the  details  in  cakemaking  (it  has  been  given  so  many 
times  in  the  menus).  Sifting  the  flour  and  baking  powder  to- 
gether, as  most  recipes  prescribe,  is  a  great  mistake.  Baking 
powder  should  never  be  added  until  everything  else  is  in  the  dish 
and  the  mass  thoroughly  beaten.  The  reason  will  be  appreciat- 
ed by  every  thoughtful  person.  The  moment  the  milk  or  other 
liquid  comes  in  contact  with  the  powder  effervescence  begins,  and 
by  the  time  the  dough  is  ready  for  the  oven  it  has  entirely  ceased 
and  the  mass  is  likely  to  be  as  "dull,  stale  and  profltless"  as  a 
glass  of  second-hand  soda  water.  If  all  the  other  ingredients  are 
well,  beaten,  the  powder  added  at  the  last  moment  and  the  cake 
put  into  the  oven  as  hurriedly  as  possible,  the  process  of  effer- 
vescence will  be  assisted  by  the  heat,  and  the  dough  will  rise  in 
a  light,  spongy  mass.  This  is  the  secret  of  the  extra-flne  cake 
and  biscuit  that  many  non-professional  housekeepers  boast  of. 
Why  not  let  all  have  the  benefit?  It  is  quite  as  much  of  an  ac- 
complishment to  be  a  good  cook  as  it  is  to  paint  a  good  picture 
or  execute  a  piece  of  music  brilliantly. 

Berries — A  good  way  to  prepare  berries  for  v/inter  use  is  to 
heat  the  berries  and  press  them  through  a  sieve,  and  to  one  pound 
of  pulp  and  juice  add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  granulated 
sufar,  cook  twenty  minutes,  seal  hot  or  put  in  fruit  cans.  (In 
this  way  we  get  rid  of  the  seeds,  which  are  so  hurtful,  and  which 
become  harder  by  cooking.)  I  wanted  this  in  the  menu,  but  there 
did  not  seem  to  be  any  room  for  it. 

Mrs.   B.  G.   Wilbur. 

No.  13  North  Manning  Street,  Hillsdale,  Mich. 


FRIDAY,  AUGUST  THE  TWENTIETH. 


Chafing  dish  recipes 


BREAKFAST. 

Blackberries. 

Lamb  kindneys  a  la  terrapin. 

Potatoes — maitre  d'  hotel 

Drip  coifee. 


rS'4  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Eggs  a  la  Carraccas. 

Cottage  cheese.  Stewed  wild  plums. 

Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Tea,   hot   or   iced. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  celery  soup. 

Fried  white  fish  with  tomato  sauce. 

Green  corn.  Boiled  potatoes. 

Compote  of  peaches. 

Cafe  Noire. 


Lamb  Kidneys  a  la  Terrapin — Take  six  lamb  kidneys,  cut  in 
halves.  Throw  into  cold  water  and  allow  to  boil  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
of  flour,  one  teacup  of  milk,  the  butter  added  slowly  after  the 
former  are  smoothly  mixed.  Cut  the  kidneys  into  smaller  pieces, 
with  one  hard-boiled  egg  chopped  fine,  half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  two  teaspoonfuls  minced 
parsley.  Drop  all  into  the  hot  sauce  for  two  minutes.  Cold 
chicken  or  calves'  liver  are  also  good  prepared  thus. 

Potatoes — Maitre  d'  Hotel — Cut  four  large  cold  potatoes  in 
rather  thin  slices.  Melt  butter  size  of  an  egg,  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  a  few  leaves  of  parsley  chopped  very  fine,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  one-fourth  of  white  pepper.  Spread  this,  all 
mixed  together,  over  the  potatoes,  cover  long  enough  over  the 
boiling  water  for  the  butter,  etc.,  to  penetrate  the  potatoes. 

Eggs  a  la  Carraccas — One-fourth  pound  of  dried  beef  chopped 
fine,  one  tablespoonful  minced  onion,  one  cup  stewed  tomatoes, 
four  raw  and  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
two  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
dash  of  cayenne.  Put  onions  first  in  the  melted  butter,  then  the 
tomatoes,  then  the  chopped  beef,  the  eggs,  cheese  and  seasoning, 
each  in  quick  succession.  Stir  like  scrambled  eggs.  Serve  on  very 
fiaky  crackers  or  toast  squares,  garnish  with  the  hard-boiled  eggs, 
sliced.     A  dish  for  the  gods. 

The  ordinary  red  wild  plum  now  so  abundant  and  cheap  has 
a  rich  flavor  when  stewed  and  sweetened.  Serve  cold  in  large 
saucers,  with  tablespoonful  of  the  cottage  cheese  in  same  dish. 
To  be  eaten  together  with  bread  and  butter. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup — One  bunch  of  celery,  one  pint  of  water, 
one  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  minced  lemon  peeling,  one 
tablespoonful  minced  onion,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful 
Vv^hite  pepper.  Cook  the  celery  twenty  minutes  in  the  water,  the 
onions  minced  very  fine  in  the  milk.  Combine  them  with  the  sea- 
soning and  serve  quickly  after  three  minutes  together. 

Compote  of  Peaches — Cut  the  pared  peaches  in  halves,  put  in 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK,  385 

the  sauce-pan,  allow  them  to  become  heated  through  in  their 
own  juice,  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  sprinkled  over.  Mois- 
ten one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  with  cold  water,  add  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  lemon  juice  and  one  egg  very  lightly  whipped.  Put  the 
peaches  on  squares  of  sponge  cake  hollow  side  up.  Take  the  sirup 
of  their  juice  and  mix  the  cornstarch,  etc.,  in  it.  Place  on  stove 
and  allow  them  to  bubble  up  together,  and  when  slightly  cooled 
pour  over  the  peaches;  put  in  a  cold  place.  The  sirup  will  jelly 
all  about  the  fruit  and  form  a  delicious  dessert.  Serve  with  plain 
cream.    This  may  be  prepared  an  hour  or  two  before  dinner. 

Laura  H.  Clark. 
No.  2552  Prairie  Avenue,  Chicago. 


SATURDAY,  AUGUST  THE  TWENTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Iced  melons. 

Broiled  mackerel.      Shredded  wheat  biscuit  and  tomatoes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Meat  popovers.  Rice  a  la  Turque. 

Baked  apples.        Lemon  buns. 

Orange  tea. 

DINNER. 

Clam  bisque. 

Lamb  chops,  with  mushrooms. 

Potatoes.     Stuffed  tomatoes. 

Peaches  and  cream.      Citron  cake. 

Coffee. 


Shredded  Wheat  Biscuits,  with  Tomatoes — Split  into  halves 
three  biscuits;  place  in  baking  pan.  Pour  over  sufficient  milk  to 
soak  them,  about  four  tablespoonfuls  to  each,  and  over  each  one 
teaspoonful  of  melted  butter.  Peel  and  cut  in  slices  four  solid 
tomatoes;  place  them  on  the  biscuits  and  bake  in  quick  oven  fif- 
teen minutes.  Dust  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  the  tomatoes  and 
put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  little  bits  over  the  whole.  Trans- 
fer carefully  with  cake  turner  to  hot  dish  and  serve.  This  is  a 
quickly  prepared,  appetizing  and  nutritious  dish. 

Meat  Popovers — Mince  very  fine  one  breakfastcupful  of  cold 
meat;  if  from  leg  joint,  crack  the  bone  and  use  the  marrow;  it 
will  very  much  improve  the  flavor  of  dish.  Take  two  eggs,  beat 
them,  add  breakfastcup  of  flour  and  same  of  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  pinch  cayenne  pepper.  Beat  the  batter  v^^ell,  add  the  meat, 
have  gem  pans  hot  and  well  greased,  drop  a  good  tablespoonful 
into  each  pan  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

25 


386  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

Gravy — Make  half  pint  of  stock  from  the  bones,  wash  well 
the  skins  and  stems  of  mushrooms  you  will  use  for  dinner,  add 
them  to  stock,  strain  and  thicken  with  one  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch; add  one  pickled  gherkin  chopped  fine  and  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  salt.  Put  the  peeled  mushrooms  on  ice  or  they  will  turn 
black. 

Rice  a  la  Turque — Put  into  a  sauce-pan  three  teacups  stock  or 
water  and  a  tablespoonful  extract  of  beef.  Peel  three  tomatoes, 
cut  small  and  add  to  stock;  let  come  to  a  boil  and  strain.  Put 
liquor  back  into  pan  and  throw  in  one  cup  of  Patna  rice  which 
has  been  well  washed  and  dried;  let  remain  on  stove  till  rice  has 
absorbed  all  the  liquid;  add  teaspoon  salt,  quarter  teaspoonful 
pepper;  just  before  serving  add  half  ounce  butter,  stir  lightly 
to  separate  the  grains. 

Orange  Tea — Peel  and  take  off  all  the  white  skin  from  an 
orange;  put  a  slice  in  each  cup  and  pour  over  a  light  tea,  hot; 
sweeten  to  taste;  cream  spoils  it;  very  refreshing. 

Clam  Bisque — Take  a  pint  of  clams,  pick  them  over  and  chop 
them  fine;  put  them  into  a  pint  of  water,  adding  all  their  liquor; 
set  them  on  the  stove  and  stew  till  all  the  goodness  is  extracted; 
say  twenty  minutes.  Strain  and  set  the  liquor  to  settle;  put  a 
pint  of  milk  to  boil,  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed 
with  a  little  cold  milk;  strain  the  clam  liquor  very  carefully  lest 
there  should  be  sand  or  bits  of  clam.  Add  to  the  milk,  put  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  pinch  of 
cayenne.    Serve  hot. 

Lamb  Chops — A  pound  and  a  half  nice  loin  chops.  Put  one 
ounce  of  butter  or  drippings  in  pan;  when  hot  put  in  the  chops; 
half  cook  and  turn  them  over.  Take  the  mushrooms  already 
peeled  (one-half  pound),  put  them  on  the  chops,  cupside  up; 
sprinkle  over  them  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon pepper.  Take  two  ounces  butter,  break  into  bits  and  put 
on  the  mushrooms,  return  to  oven  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer; 
the  mushrooms  should  be  quite  tender. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes — Mix  well  together  one  cupful  fine  bread 
crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  finely  minced  parsley,  one  tablespoon- 
ful melted  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  pinch  cayenne,  and  two 
well  beaten  eggs.  Scoop  out  six  large  tomatoes,  fill  with  mix- 
ture and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Citron  Cake — Lemon  Buns — Six  ounces  of  butter  and  six 
ounces  of  sugar;  beat  to  a  good  cream.  Add  ^'■olks  of  four  eggs, 
beat  again;  put  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  into 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  and  sift  into  mixture;  add  one 
teacup  of  miik  and  thoroughly  well  beat.  Add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  previously  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  now  stir  lightly  a  few 
turns  to  mix  the  whites  in.  Divide  the  mixture;  put  half  teaspoon 
lemon  to  one-half  and  fill  gem  pans;  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Cut 
two  ounces  citron  peel  very  thin  and  add  to  other  half  and  bake 
in  cake  tin. 

Hints — For  baking  choose  apples  which  will  give  under  the 
thumbs,  when  pressed. 

To  prevent  your  cakes  from  sticking,  flour  your  tins  after 
greasing  them. 


THK  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  3if 

To  make  your  cakes  light,  do  not  beat  the  mixture  after  you 
have  added  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Use  Patna  rice  if  you  wish  the  grains  to  separate  nicely. 
Holland,  Michigan.  Mrs.  C.  Birchby. 


SUNDAY,  AUGUST  THE  TWENTY-SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Snow  watermelon. 

White  souffle.  Buttered  toast. 

Hot  cofCee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Ham  a  la  venison. 

Hot  rolls. 

Fresh  gingerbread.  Curds. 

Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Black  bean   soup. 

Veal  oysters.  Delmonico  potatoes. 

Carrots  and  green  peas. 

Frozen  peaches.  Coffee. 


Snow  Watermelon — Take  the  heart  out  of  a  melon  that  has 
been  on  ice  and  cut  in  thick  slices.  Make  snow  by  pounding  a 
piece  of  ice  in  a  clean  crash  bag  until  it  looks  like  snow.  Have 
the  plates  cold  by  placing  them  in  the  ice  box  for  half  an  hour, 
and  put  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  snow  on  each  slice.  Dainty 
and  delicious  these  hot  mornings. 

White  Souffle — Take  one  set  of  calf's  brains,  which  are  sold  at 
8  cents  at  this  season,  and  remove  the  red  membrane;  soak  them 
in  cold  water  for  ten  minutes  and  then  place  them  to  cool  in  a 
pint  of  cold  water,  in  which  you  have  put  one  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boil  ten  minutes, 
take  from  the  fire  and  plunge  into  cold  water  to  harden.  Cut  into 
dice,  and  mix  with  a  cupful  of  white  sauce  made  with  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  melted  to- 
gether, and  one  coffee  cup  of  hot  milk,  added  when  perfectly 
smooth.  Season  with  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  three 
shakes  of  black  pepper  and  two  of  red  pepper,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  and  five  drops  of  onion  juice;  add  two  well-beaten 
eggs,  yolks  only,  and  set  away  to  cool;  then  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
Serve  immediately. 

Buttered  Toast — ^Cut  thin  slices  of  white  bread.  Toast  to  a 
golden  brown  on  both  sides,  spread  with  sweet,  fresh  butter  and 
send  to  the  table  piping  hot  in  a  napkin. 


ZHH  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOlC  BOOET, 

Coffee — Grind  your  coffee  fresh  every  morning  if  you  want  it 
good,  and  make  it  at  the  table  in  a  Marion  Harland  or  French 
coffee  pot.  Allov/  one  tablespoonful  for  each  person.  Have  the 
water  boiling  and  the  pot  hot,  and  serve  v>^ith  rich  cream. 

Ham  a  la  Venison — Take  eight  or  ten  thin  slices  of  cold-boiled 
ham.  Spread  each  slice  with  a  thin  coating  of  made  mustard,  and 
add  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  to  each  slice.  In  your  blazer  put 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  third  of  a  tumblerful  of  cur- 
rant jelly;  melt  together.  Then  lay  in  enough  slices  of  ham  to 
cover  the  dish,  and  let  them  brown  a  little.  Serve  very  hot.  An 
old  English  recipe,  and  a  very  good  one.    Try  it. 

Soft  Gingerbread — One  cup  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk  and  three  cups  of 
pastry  flour.  Mix  in  the  order  given  and  bake  in  small  tins  thirty 
minutes. 

Curds — You  can  buy  such  delicious  curd  at  the  creamery 
now  that  it  is  hardly  worth  the  while  to  make  it  at  home.  Still 
if  one  has  plenty  of  sour  milk  it  is  well  to  know  how  to  make  the 
curd.  Take  two  quarts  of  solid  clabber,  put  on  back  of  stove, 
where  it  will  get  hot,  but  not  boil.  When  the  curd  separates 
from  the  whey  turn  it  into  a  cheese  cloth  bag  and  let  it  dry  sev- 
eral hours.  Turn  out  and  mix  with  it  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream;  mix  lightly.  Serve  in  a  small 
glass  dish.  Should  the  milk  boil  the  curd  is  ruined,  as  it  be- 
comes hard  and  indigestible.  This  is  delicious  with  warm  gin- 
gerbread. 

Iced  Tea — Allow  one  teaspoonful  of  tea  to  one  cup  of  water 
for  each  person.  Steep  in  cold  water  four  hours.  Pill  tail  glasses 
one-third  full  of  cracked  ice;  fill  up  with  tea,  and  serve  with  thin 
slices  of  iGm.on  and  sugar  to  suit  taste. 

Black  Bean  Soup — Two  cups  of  black  beans  soaked  over  night. 
In  morning  put  on  to  boil  in  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  with  one 
small  onion  and  two  large  tomatoes.  Boil  four  or  five  hours,  or 
until  beans  are  soft.  Add  water  as  it  boils  away.  Strain  and  rub 
through  a  sieve,  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  two  of 
butter,  mixed  thoroughly  together,  with  one-half  cup  of  cold 
v/ater;  add  v/hile  soup  is  boiling.  Season  with  one  full  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  and  half  a  level  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  two  dashes  of 
cayenne  and  a  saltspoonful  of  mustard.  Cut  a  lemon  and  two 
hard-toiled  eggs  in  thin  slices,  put  into  the  tureen  and  pour  the 
hot  soup  over  them. 

Veal  Oysters — Get  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  tender  veal 
from  the  leg,  cut  into  pieces  size  and  shape  of  an  oyster,  dip  in 
olive  oil  and  roll  in  fine  cracker  crumbs.  Then  dip  into  egg  and 
then  into  cracker  crumbs  again.  Season  each  piece  with  a  small 
pinch  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper  on  each  side;  dip  into  hot 
fat  and  fry  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  piled  up  in  the  center  of  a 
platter.  Surround  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  In  the  center  of  half 
a  dozen  of  the  lettuce  leaves  put  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  tartare 
sauce.    Serve  the  lettuce  with  the  veaL 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  389 

Tartare  Sauce — One  teaspoonf iil  of  mustard,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  ten  drops  of  onion  juice,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half 
teacupful  of  oil,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  each  of  capers,  parsley  and  olive.  Mix  in  the  order  given;  add 
the  yolk,  and  beat  well;  add  oil  slowly,  and  the  vinegar  a  little  at 
a  time.  Then  add  the  chopped  ingredients,  and  put  on  ice  until 
served. 

Carrots  and  Green  Peas — Boil  one  pint  of  green  peas  until 
tender.  Boil  one  pint  of  carrots  cut  into  dice  until  tender.  Mix 
and  season  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  half  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt. 

Delmonico  Potatoes — Pare  and  cut  into  very  small  dice  enough 
potatoes  to  fill  a  quart  measure.  Butter  a  granite  dish  (one  two 
inches  deep),  and  put  a  layer  of  potatoes  and  a  sprinkle  each  of 
salt,  pepper,  chopped  onion  and  parsley;  dot  bits  of  butter  about 
two  inches  apart  all  over.  Then  another  layer  of  potatoes,  with 
the  seasoning  and  butter,  until  all  the  potatoes  are  used.  Pill  up 
with  milk  enough  to  let  the  potatoes  show  through,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  It  will  take  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a.  teaspoonful  of 
pepper  and  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion  and  parsley  to- 
gether. These  potatoes  are  especially  good  with  meats  that  are 
served  without  gravy.  They  should  be  rich  and  creamy.  Should 
they  get  too  dry  in  baking,  add  more  milk. 

Frozen  Peaches — Pare  and  slice  enough  ripe  peaches  to  make 
a  quart;  add  one  pint  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of  cold  water.  When 
the  sugar  is  dissolved,  freeze.    Serve  with  macaroons. 

Mrs.  L.  White. 

Station  A,  North  Side,  Chicago. 


MONDAY,  AUGUST  THE  TWENTY-THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Steamed  apples. 

Breakfast  bacon.       Fried  potatoes. 

Green  corn  cake.      Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Thin  bread  and  butter.    Cucumbers  and  cream. 

Apple-custard  pie.       Cheese  straws. 

Iced  milk. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  cream  soup. 

Smothered  steak.    Baked  potatoes, 

Lima  beans.      Cold  slaw.      Corn  pudding. 

Lemon  ice.      Coffee. 


390  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Steamed  Apples — Take  some  cooking  apples  (about  five  or 
six)  and  one-half  cup  sugar.  Quarter  and  core  the  fruit,  but 
leave  the  skin  on.  Put  in  vegetable  dish,  a  layer  of  apple  and  one 
of  sugar,  until  you  have  two  layers  of  each.  Place  in  steamer. 
When  done  serve  from  same  dish,  as  they  should  be  eaten  while 
warm.    Sprinkle  a  little  more  sugar  on  each  dish  on  top. 

Breakfast  Bacon  and  Fried  Potatoes — Cut  bacon  in  very  thin 
slices.  Have  the  frying-pan  sizzling  hot  when  the  meat  is  put 
in.  When  done  to  a  crisp  lay  on  hot  platter,  but  leave  the  fat  in 
pan.  Now  sliee  some  cold  boiled  potatoes  lengthwise  (either 
Irish  or  sweet  ones)  and  fry  them  in  the  hot  bacon  fat.  With  a 
shake  of  pepper  it  seasons  them  nicely. 

Green  Corn  Cake — Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob,  the  same  as  in 
directions  for  Indian  pudding  (in  this  menu).  Use  four  large 
young  ears.  If  small  corn  is  used  it  will  need  double  the  quan- 
tity. Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
a  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten  and 
added  carefully  to  the  milk  after  it  has  begun  to  boil.  Stir  in 
the  corn,  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  finally  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  well  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  pour  the  mixture  into  two 
deep  pie  plates  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Cucumbers  and  Cream — Slice  very  thin  four  large  cucumbers, 
salt  them  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Squeeze  them  in  a  piece  of 
cheese  cloth.  Take  one-half  cup  of  sweet  cream;  whip  it  until 
light  and  pour  over  them;  add  one  cup  of  good  vinegar.  Serve 
at  once.    This  is  a  German  dish,  and  a  novelty;  but  just  try  it. 

Apple  Custard  Pie — One  quart  of  tart  stewed  apple  sifted 
through  sieve,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter,  four  eggs,  one 
heaping  cup  of  sugar;  then  taste,  and  if  not  sweet  enough  add  a 
little  more  sugar.  Now  make  a  nice  crust,  only  an  under  crust 
(directions  have  been  given  for  pastry  so  often  in  this  column  of 
The  Record  it  is  not  necessary  to  repeat.)  If  you  wish  you  can 
save  out  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  put  on  a  meringue  top,  but  it 
is  good  enough  without. 

Cheese  Straws — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rich  cheese  grated,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  but- 
ter, one  tablespoonful  of  milk,  one  egg  (yolk  only),  one  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  one-half  saltspoonful  of  red  pepper  and  same  quantity 
of  nutmeg.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  milk,  egg  and  butter; 
stir  with  spoon  and  add  enough  flour  to  roll;  roll  very  thin  and 
cut  into  sticks  three  or  four  inches  long.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
until  light  brown.    Serve  with  pie  or  with  black  coffee. 

Smothered  Steak — A  good  way  to  cook  a  tough  steak:  One 
pound  and  a  half  of  steak,  five  or  six  medium-sized  onions,  one  cup 
of  water.  Slice  the  onions  and  put  a  layer  in  spider;  then  the 
steak,  another  layer  of  onions  on  top,  a  few  dashes  of  pepper. 
Cover  closely,  but  watch  it,  and  if  the  water  boils  away  add  more 
hot  water  from  the  teakettle.  When  onions  are  done  the  meat 
will  be  tender.  Lay  on  hot  platter.  Take  two  tablespoonfuls  corn- 
starch, mixed  smoothly  in  cold  water,  add  one  half  teaspoon  level 
full  of  salt,  stir  it  in  the  gravy  until  it  tastes  done,  then  pour 
it  over  the  steak. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.         •       391 

Cold  Slaw — Has  disappeared  from  most  tables,  and  yet  it  is 
extremely  palatable,  especially  in  hot  weather.  Beat  two  eggs 
in  a  bowl  that  fits  in  the  top  of  a  teakettle;  add  a  gill  of  vinegar 
and  water  mixed,  an  ounce  of  butter  and  an  even  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Place  bowl  over  boiling  water,  and  when  hot  stir  the 
contents  until  they  become  as  thick  as  custard.  Strain  and  leave 
it  to  cool,  and  when  quite  cold  pour  over  raw  sliced  cabbage,  only 
the  white  inside  leaves  being  used. 

Corn  Pudding — Select  firm,  sweet  ears  of  good  sized  corn  cut 
from  the  cob  in  the  following  manner:  With  a  keen-bladed 
knife  cut  the  corn  off  the  cob,  cutting  only  to  the  depth  of  half 
the  kernel;  scrape  off  the  rest.  This  leaves  a  large  portion  of 
the  husk  of  the  kernel  on  the  cob,  and  removes  none  of  the  cob, 
as  is  frequently  the  case  when  the  corn  is  cut  close.  To  twelve 
ears  of  large  sweet-corn,  cut  from  the  cob  in  this  way,  add  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  rich  milk.  Beat  four  eggs  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt;  add,  also,  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Bake  the  pudding  in  a  greased 
granite  dish  in  a  slow  oven  for  two  hours. 

Lemon  Ice — Two  quarts  of  water,  four  teacups  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Boil;  when  perfectly  cold  add  the  grated 
rind  of  two  lemons  and  the  juice  of  four,  and  the  whites  of  four 
eggs  well  beaten.  Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  thoroughly  before  put- 
ting it  in  the  water  to  boil.  When  cold  turn  it  into  the  freezer, 
and  freeze  by  turning,  opening  it  three  times  to  beat  it  all  up 
together. 

Note: — Apples,  it  is  said,  are  now  considered  to  contain  far 
more  brain  food  than  any  other  fruit  or  vegetable,  and  to  be 
much  more  nutritious  than  potatoes,  which  enter  so  largely  into 
the  component  parts  of  every  meal. 

Fanny  Cressy  Wilbur. 

No.  13  No.  Manning  Street,  Hillsdale,  Mich. 


TUESDAY,  AUGUST  THE  TWENTY-FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Peaches  v/ith  sugar  and  cream. 

A  Spanish  delicacy.  Duchesse  potatoes. 

Graham  puffs.  .  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Salted-walnut  sandwiches.      Saratoga  chips. 

Sliced  tomatoes. 

Moonshine.  White  cake. 

Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

White  soup.  Crackers. 

Cutlets  a  la  duchesse.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Corn  timbales. 

Rice  and  apple  pudding. 

Coffee, 


392     *  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

A  Spanish  Delicacy— Heat  an  earthen  dish  over  a  moderate 
fire  and  melt  in  it  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  add  a 
small  onion,  minced  fine,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of 
pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley,  and  as  much  minced 
Chile  pepper  or  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  pepper;  break  six  eggs, 
one  by  one,  into  the  boiling  butter,  and  turn  them  as  soon  as  they 
are  set,  using  great  care  not  to  break  the  yolks.  Serve  very  hot  in 
the  same  dish. 

Graham  Puffs — One  and  one-half  cups  of  graham  flour,  one 
cup  sifted  wheat  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  half  a  teacup- 
ful  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  cups  of  new  milk, 
three  eggs.  Mix  salt  and  flour;  add  the  milk,  and  beat  smooth; 
froth  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately  from  the  whites;  cream  the 
butter;  add  the  eggs  and  then  the  batter.  Bake  in  buttered  gem 
pans  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes,  but  do  not  keep  them  in  the 
oven  after  they  have  well  popped  over  the  cups.    Serve  at  once. 

Salted- Walnut  Sandwiches — Spread  very  thin  slices  of  Boston 
brown  bread  with  butter;  then  chop  walnuts  rather  flne,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  and  put  a  layer  of  the  nuts  between  two  slices  of  bread. 
One  and  one-half  cups  of  nuts  will  be  required  for  ten  slices  of 
bread. 

Moonshine — Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  in  a  broad  plate  to  a 
very  stiff  froth;  then  add  gradually  twelve  tablespoonfuls  pow- 
dered sugar,  beating  for  not  less  than  twenty  minutes,  and  then 
beat  in  three  large  peaches,  which  have  been  pared  and  cut  in 
tiny  bits,  and  set  on  ice  until  thoroughly  chilled.  In  serving, 
pour  in  each  saucer  some  rich  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with 
vanilla. 

Cutlets  a  la  Duchesse— Two  pounds  of  lamb  cutlets,  one  large 
cupful  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  onion  juice,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter,  one  of  flour,  two  whole  eggs,  the  yolks  of  four  more, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  chopped  ham,  one  of  lemon  juice,  one 
teaspoonful  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  pepper.  Put  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan.  Season  the  cutlets  with 
some  of  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  when  the  butter  is  hot  put  them 
in  it,  fry  gently  for  five  minutes,  set  away  to  cool.  Put  the  re- 
mainder of  the  butter  in  a  small  frying-pan,  and  when  hot  stir 
in  the  fiour.  Cook  one  minute,  being  careful  not  to  brown.  Stir 
in  the  cream.  Have  the  ham,  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  onion 
and  lemon  juice  beaten  together.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the  boil- 
ing sauce.  Stir  for  about  one  minute  and  remove  from  the  fire. 
Season  well  with  remaining  pepper  and  salt.  Dip  the  cutlets  in 
this  sauce,  being  careful  to  cover  every  part,  and  set  away  to  cool. 
When  cold  dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in 
boiling  fat  for  one  minute.  Arrange  them  in  a  circle  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  have  green  peas  in  the  center  and  cream  sauce  poured 
around. 

Corn  Timbales— Beat  six  eggs  just  enough  to  mix,  add  one- 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  one-half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  grated 
corn.    Stir  well  and  fill  the  greased  molds  two-thirds  full.    Set  in 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  393 

a  pan,  pour  boiling  water  around  them,  cover  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  until  the  centers  are  firm.     Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

Rice  and  Apple  Pudding — Two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  rice, 
half  a  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  six 
sour  apples.  Boil  the  rice  in  the  milk;  when  quite  soft,  add  yolks 
of  eggs  and  sugar,  and  let  it  cook  three  minutes,  stirring  rapidly. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  line  a  pudding-dish  with  it^  and  fill  up  the 
center  of  the  dish  with  the  cored  and  pared  tart  apples,  which 
have  been  stewed  soft  in  sugar  and  water  with  the  rind  and  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  spread 
them  over  the  apples  and  rice;  scatter  sugar  plentifully  over  the 
top,  and  brown  quickly  in  the  oven.  Janet  Van  Allen. 

Bozeman,  Mont. 


WEDNESDAY,  AUGUST  THE  TWENTY-FIFTH. 


An  economical  day  in  an  "Old  Dominion"  kitchen. 


BREAKFAST. 

Muskmelon, 

Flapjacks.  Quaking  omelet. 

Fried  Apples. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Jelly  fritters. 

Frizzled  beef.  Rusks. 

Watermelon  diamonds. 


DINNER. 

Virginia  fried  chicken. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Tomato  mayonnaise. 

Egg  corn  bread. 

Grandmother's  apple  dumplings. 


Flapjacks — One  pint  of  sour  milk  or  cream,  one  pint  of  flour, 
pinch  of  salt,  two  eggs,  a  level  teaspoon  of  soda;  beat  all  together 
and  bake  on  a  v/ell-greased  griddle.  A  piece  of  pork  an  inch 
square,  run  on  a  tin  fork,  makes  a  nice  greaser. 

Quaking  Omelet — This  is  a  simple  breakfast  dish.  It  calls  for 
four  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  milk,  one-third  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  quarter  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Whip  the  whites  into  a  stiff 
froth  and  place  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  let  cook  until  firm. 
In  the  meantime  beat  the  yolks  and  milk  together  and  turn  into 
a  hot  frying-pan,  which  has  been  well  buttered;  sprinkle  on  salt 
and  pepper,  and  set  the  frying-pan  in  the  oven,  and  let  remain  six 
minutes.    Carefully  dish  the  whites,  without  breaking  them,  on  to 


394  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

a  liot  dish,  and  turn  the  yolks  out  on  them  exactly  in  the  center, 
leaving  a  white  rim  all  around,  and  you  have  a  pretty  dish. 

Fried  Apples — Take  three  large,  sour  apples,  pare  and  then 
core  with  an  apple-corer  (a  little  tin  instrument  worth  its  weight 
in  gold,  but  costing  only  5  cents),  then  cut  across  in  thin  slices 
and  fry  in  hot  fat;  when  done  lay  on  porous  paper  to  drain,  then 
dish  and  sprinkle  with  white  sugar. 

Jelly  Fritters — Put  three  tablespoonfuls  flour  into  a  bowl  and 
pour  over  it  sufficient  hot  water  to  make  it  into  a  stiff  paste,  stir- 
ring well  to  prevent  its  getting  lumpy.  When  cool  break  into  it 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  then  the  whites,  stir  and  beat  all  together. 
Drop  a  dessertspoonful  of  batter  into  hot  fat  and  fry  a  light  brown. 
Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  spoonful  of  currant  jelly  on  each.  These 
are  to  be  eaten  with  sweetened  cream  or  maple  molasses. 

Frizzled  Beef — Chip  a  quarter-pound  of  dried  beef  as  thin  as 
paper  with  a  very  sharp  knife;  melt  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  a 
frying-pan,  stir  the  beef  about  in  it  for  two  or  three  minutes  and 
serve. 

Watermelon  Diamonds — Take  a  fully  ripe  watermelon,  put  on 
ice  until  thoroughly  cold,  slice,  remove  the  seed,  and  cut  into  dia- 
mond shapes;  place  in  a  glass  dish  and  sprinkle  each  layer  with 
sugar.  Serve  as  any  other  fruit  in  saucers.  You  will  be  de- 
lighted. 

That  nothing  need  be  wasted,  you  can  make  delightful  pre- 
serves out  of  the  rind. 

"Virginia  Fried  Chicken — We  will  omit  the  soup  to-day,  as  we 
have  cream  gravy  with  the  chicken,  and  begin  our  dinner  with 
this  dish.  If  you  live  in  the  city,  we  will  suppose  you  have  bought 
your  spring  chicken  ready  dressed  (though  it  is  cheaper  to  buy 
them  alive  and  have  them  dressed  at  home).  At  this  time  of  year 
it  should  be  of  good  size,  so  we  will  divide  it  into  eleven  pieces, 
but  we  will  take  only  the  best  for  our  fry,  leaving  the  bony  parts 
(which  it  is  a  waste  to  fry)  for  a  breakfast  stew;  these  cooked 
with  potatoes  and  a  dressing  of  milk  and  butter  added  are  very 
nice.  Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  into  which  you  have  sifted 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  roll  the 
pieces  of  chicken  in  this  and  place  in  a  frying-pan  in  which  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  suet  and  butter  mixed  has  been  heated;  cover 
until  brown  on  one  side,  then  turn  and  cover  again.  When  both 
sides  are  a  golden  brown,  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  where  it 
will  cook  slowly  until  you  are  ready  to  serve  it.  Dish  on  a  hot 
platter  and  garnish  with  curled  parsley. 

Pour  into  tne  frying-pan  a  teacup  and  a  half  of  milk;  when  it 
boils  up  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  which  has  been  moistened 
with  milk  or  water  and  rubbed  into  a  smooth  paste;  add  a  half- 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  chopped  parsley.  Serve  with  the  chicken,  in  a  gravy- 
boat. 

Egg  Corn  Bread — One  egg,  one  teacup  of  sour  milk,  one  cup 
of  cornmeal,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  lard,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  tea- 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  395 

spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  water.  Beat 
all  together  and  bake  in  a  cake-pan  in  a  hot  oven. 

Southern  Mashed  Potatoes— I  have  never  eaten  any  potatoes 
that  tasted  quite  so  good  as  those  cooked  by  my  "old  mammy," 
but  I  will  try  and  tell  how  I  have  seen  her  do  it;  as  for  her  telling 
how  she  did  it,  she  neither  would  nor  could.  After  six  large  pota- 
toes were  boiled  and  mashed  they  were  seasoned  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  half-teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per and  a  half-cup  of  cream — if  she  had  it — then  they  were  beaten 
into  snowflakes  and  heaped  into  a  mound  on  a  pie-plate,  topped 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  placed  on  the  upper  shelf  of  the  oven 
and  baked  until  the  whole  outside  was  a  rich  brown;  v/hen  eaten 
these  flakes  simply  melted  in  the  mouth. 

Apple  Dumplings — To  prepare  a  paste  for  this  favorite  dessert 
take  one  pint  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  sifted  through  the  flour. 
Use  sweet  milk  or  water  and  mix  the  dough  a  little  stiffer  than 
for  biscuits;  roll  out  a  little  thicker  than  pie  crust,  cut  into  squares 
and  put  in  the  center  of  each  a  nice,  sour  apple,  pared  and  cored; 
fill  the  hole  left  by  the  core  with  sugar,  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  clove; 
bring  the  corners  of  the  dough  together,  pinching  well  to  make  a 
firm  ball;  tie  in  loose  cloths,  which  have  been  dipped  in  hot  water 
and  floured  on  the  inside.  Boil  steadily  in  plenty  of  water  one 
hour.  Some  prefer  these  steamed  or  baked.  Serve  hot  with  sweet- 
ened cream  or  butter  and  sugar.  Dumpling  cloths  may  be  crochet- 
ed in  a  close  stitch  from  stout  tidy  cotton  if  desired.  They  leave 
a  pretty  pattern  upon  the  paste  v/hen  opened. 

This  is  an  economical  and  delicious  dinner,  prepared  as  an 
"old  Virginia"  cook  would  do  it.  It  is  nicest  served  in  two  courses 
only.  The  order  in  which  it  should  be  prepared,  so  that  no  dish 
may  be  spoiled  by  waiting  for  the  rest  to  cook,  is  as  follows: 

First,  prepare  the  tomatoes,  omitting  the  dressing,  and  place 
on  ice;  next  pare  the  potatoes  and  lay  in  cold  salt  water;  then 
cut  up  and  wash  the  chicken.  Now  see  to  your  fire  and  get  the 
water  for  your  dumplings  ready;  then  prepare  the  apples  and 
make  the  dumplings;  this  should  be  done  about  one  hour  before 
time  to  serve  the  dinner.  As  soon  as  they  are  bobbing  about  in 
the  boiling  water,  put  on  the  potatoes;  now  it  is  time  to  make 
the  corn  bread  and  put  the  chicken  on  to  fry;  by  this  time  the 
potatoes  are  ready  to  prepare  for  baking,  and  you  have  all  your 
dinner  under  way.  Margaret  M.  Withrow. 

Lock  Box  No.  13,  Lexington,  Va. 


THURSDAY,  AUGUST  THE  TWENTY-SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 
Melons.  Oatmeal. 

Chicken  hash  on  toast. 
Top  knots.  Coffee. 


396  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Ham  sandwiches.  Olives. 

Hot  biscuits.  Sliced  peaches. 

Iced  tea.  Hermit  cookies. 


DINNER. 

Bouillon. 

Stuffed  meat  peppers. 

Baked  potatoes.  Baked  cabbage. 

Tomato  salad. 

Cream  Boulie.  After-dinner  coffee. 


Chicken  Hash  on  Toast — Put  one  and  a  half  cups  water,  lump  of 
butter  half  as  large  as  an  egg,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  dash  of  pepper  in  a  stew-pan;  add  a  cup  of  chicken  (or  veal) 
picked  up  from  what  was  left  from  a  previous  dinner.  Boil  up  and 
thicken  with  one  spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  milk. 
Serve  hot  on  moist  toast. 

Top  Knots — Two  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  (before  melting), 
one  and  a  half  cups  of  milk,  tv/o  cups  of  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls 
baking  pov/der.     Bake  in  very  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Ham  Sandwiches — Take  one  package  of  potted  ham,  add  a 
little  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  mustard  and  vinegar  to  make  thin 
enough  to  spread  nicely.  Spread  thin  slices  of  bread.  Cut  in 
squares  and  serve. 

Hermit  Cookies — One  and  a  half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup 
of  butter,  half  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
water,  three  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  nutmeg,  one  and  one-half 
cups  chopped  raisins,  three  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  in  which 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  has  been  sifted;  also  flour  the 
raisins  before  adding.  Drop  the  dough  from  the  spoon  without 
connecting.     Bake. 

Stuffed  Meat  Peppers — One  and  a  half  pounds  lean  beef  or  veal 
chopped,  two  tomatoes  chopped  (or  half  a  cup  of  stewed  toma- 
toes), one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one  small  onion  and  two  stalks 
of  celery  chopped,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  with  six  cloves  in 
while  melting,  one  tablespoonful  Worcestershire  sauce.  Mix 
thoroughly;  have  ready  nine  green  sweet  peppers,  with  seeds  re- 
moved and  soaked  in  salt  water  for  six  hours.  Stuff  the  peppers 
with  the  mixture;  stand  up  on  points  in  a  baking  dish;  put  half 
spoonful  of  butter  or  drippings  on  top  of  each;  pour  a  little  boil- 
ing water  around  them.    Bake  one  and  a  half  hours. 

Baked  Cabbage — Parboil  one  head  of  cabbage  flfteen  minutes, 
pour  off  water,  put  on  fresh  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender. 
Let  it  get  cold.  Chop,  add  two  beaten  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  a  heaping  saltspoonful  of 
pepper  and  three-quarters  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  and  bake 
until  brown.     Serve  hot. 


THE   CHICAGO    RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  397 

Cream  Boulie — One  quart  of  milk,  boil  and  add  one-half  cup 
of  sugar;  boil  up  and  set  back  to  keep  warm;  take  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  one  spoonful  of  water,  dissolve  and  brown  on  stove  to  your 
taste,  stirring  constantly  while  browning;  add  this  to  the  milk 
and  sugar  and  add  three  small  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  and  three 
eggs  beaten  with  a  pinch  of  salt;  cook  up,  strain,  let  cool  and 
freeze. 

This  is  a  convenient  menu  where  one  is  limited  as  to  number 
of  stove  burners,  as  it  is  all  baked  at  once. 

Jennie  M.  Phelps. 

Masonville,  Delaware  Co.,  N.  Y. 


FRIDAY,  AUGUST  THE  TWENTY-SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Green  corn  omelet  served  with  lettuce. 

Popovers.  Fried  bananas. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

A  luncheon  relish.  Potato  cream. 

Cheese  and  celery  sandwiches. 

Pears.  Milk  punch. 


DINNER. 

Rice  and  tomato  soup. 

Black  sea  bass,  boiled — poulette  sauce. 

Potato  balls — parsley  butter. 

Stewed  cucumbers. 

Apple  charlotte.  Tea. 


Popovers— Beat  two  eggs  very  light,  add  two  cups  of  flour  and 
two  cups  of  milk,  one  saltspoon  salt.  It  is  better  to  mix  the  flour 
with  only  a  part  of  the  milk  into  a  very  smooth  batter,  then  add 
the  egg  and  the  remainder  of  the  milk.  No  baking  powder  is 
required.  Beat  well;  have  gem  pans  very  hot  and  well  buttered 
and  the  oven  very  hot.    Fill  irons  tv/o-thirds  full  and  bake. 

Fried  Bananas — For  the  flnishing  touch  to  a  summer  break- 
fast nothing  is  more  delicious  than  fried  bananas.  Choose  fine, 
ripe  fruit;  draw  off  the  skins  and  cut  each  banana  in  two  cross- 
wise. Salt  them  lightly,  dip  each  in  beaten  egg;  then  roll  in 
cracker  crumbs.  Cook  till  a  delicate  brown  in  deep,  boiling  fat. 
Serve  with  a  rich  fruit  sauce  made  of  one  cupful  of  boiling 
water,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch,  one-half  cupful  of  minced  fruit,  consist- 
ing of  seeded  raisins,  chopped  citron  and  English  currants  and 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice.    Mix  sugar  and  cornstarch. 


398  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  boiling  water  and  pour  upon  sugar  and 
cornstarch.  Cook  three  minutes  and  add  the  other  ingredients. 
Unless  the  butter  is  quite  salty  the  sauce  is  improved  by  adding 
a  trifle  of  salt. 

A  Luncheon  Relish — Take  a  couple  of  lambs'  hearts  and 
livers,  stew  them  gently  in  water  sufficient  to  cover  them  until 
done;  then  chop  fine,  add  half  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  chopped  thyme,  parsley  and 
onion.  Put  all  with  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  cooked,  boiled 
down  to  a  gravy  (or  a  cupful),  in  a  pan  and  bake  half  an  hour. 
Garnish  with  three  or  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  into  rings  and 
serve,  or  the  eggs  can  be  omitted. 

Potato  Cream — Peel,  boil  and  mash  six  medium-sized  potatoes, 
seasoning  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half-saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  lastly  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
four  eggs,  mixed  in  until  the  mass  is  creamy.  Set  in  oven  to  get 
very  hot. 

Cheese  and  Celery  Sandwiches— Whip  a  gill  of  cream,  thick 
and  sweet,  and  add  to  it  sufficient  grated  cheese  (Parmesan  if  pre- 
ferred, but  any  sharp,  well-flavered  American  cheese  that  can  be 
grated  will  answer)  to  make  a  stiff  paste;  spread  with  this  and 
sprinkle  thickly  with  very  finely  minced  white  stalks  of  celery. 
These  must  be  made  just  before  serving,  as  they  soon  become 
tasteless  if  made  of  Parmesan  cheese.  If  sapsago  cheese  is  used 
only  a  very  thin  layer  of  it  is  required. 

Milk  Punch  Without  Liquor— For  each  person  beat  thoroughly 
an  egg  with  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  add  to  this  two-thirds  of  a 
goblet  of  shaved  ice  and  milk;  cover  closely  with  a  shaker,  or  a 
large  goblet  inverted,  and  shake  up  and  down  until  the  ice  is 
nearly  melted.    Dust  the  top  with  grated  nutmeg. 

Rice  and  Tomato  Soup— This  is  a  nice  summer  soup,  and  a 
pleasant  change  from  meat  soups.  Use  one  can  or  its  equivalent 
in  fresh  tomatoes,  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  rice,  a  large  onion,  a 
large  slice  of  carrot,  a  quart  of  water,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Cut  the  onion  and  carrot  very  fine, 
and  put  them  into  a  small  frying-pan  with  the  butter.  Cook  slowly 
for  twenty  minutes.  Put  the  tomato  and  a  quart  of  water  into  a 
stewpan  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Skim  the  vegetables  from  the  but" 
ter,  and  add  them  to  the  tomato  and  water.  Put  the  flour  with  the 
butter  remaining  in  the  pan,  and  cook  until  smooth  and  frothy, 
stirring  all  the  v/hile;  then  add  the  mixture  in  the  stewpan,  and 
pet  the  pan  where  its  contents  will  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Then 
rub  this  mixture  through  a  sieve,  pressing  everything  through 
except  the  seeds'  and  skins.  Wash  the  rice  and  put  it  in  the  soup 
pot,  pouring  the  strained  mixture  over  the  rice.  Add  the  salt  and 
pepper,  and  set  the  soup-pot  where  its  contents  will  cook  slowly 
for  an  hour.  Stir  the  soup  several  times  to  prevent  the  rice  from 
sticking  to  the  kettle.     Serve  very  hot. 

Black  Sea  Bass— Procure  a  fish  weighing  two  and  a  half  or 
three  pounds;    cleanse  and  dress  well;    put  it  in  a  fish-boiler  in 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  399 

slightly  salted  water  and  a  gill  of  vinegar.  If  you  have  no  fish 
kettle,  wrap  the  fish  in  a  piece  of  stout  white  musiin  before  putting 
in  water.  This  holds  its  shape  and  prevents  wasting.  Fish  should 
never  boil  violently,  but  simmer  gently.  Sea  bass  of  this  size 
should  simmer  half  an  hour.  When  done  remove  the  fish  to  a  hot 
platter  and  serve  with  a  sauce.  Fresh  fish,  if  boiled,  is  much 
more  delicate  and  better  suited  to  an  invalid,  or  one  whose  diges- 
tion is  weak,  than  when  cooked  in  any  other  way. 

Poulette  Sauce — This  is  nice  with  boiled  fish  or  fowl  or  deli- 
cate vegetable.  Take  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  stock  or  water, 
one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  pepper, 
one  level  teaspoonful  salt.  Beat  the  butter  and  flour  together  un- 
til smooth  and  light,  then  add  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice. 
Gradually  pour  the  boiling  stock  or  water  upon  this  mixture,  and 
simmer  for  ten  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  in  a  small  saucepan, 
and  gradually  pour  the  sauce  upon  them.  Set  the  saucepan  in 
another  containing  boiling  water  and  stir  for  two  minutes;  then 
remove  from  the  stove  without  delay. 

Parsley  Butter — Beat  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to  a 
cream,  add  one-half  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  one  of 
parsley,  chopped,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-eighth  tea- 
spoonful of  pepper.  Beat  these  ingredients  into  the  butter  and 
it  is  ready  for  use.  This  is  also  nice  to  spread  upon  fried  or 
boiled  fish,  and  then  it  should  have  a  full  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice. 

Stewed  Cucumbers — After  peeling,  cut  four  or  five  large  cu- 
cumbers into  slices  half  an  inch  thick;  just  cover  them  with  hot 
water,  and  boil  them  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  till  they  are  tender, 
but  not  broken;  then  drain  off  the  water.  Put  two  cups  of  cream 
in  a  saucepan,  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-eighth 
teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  half-tablespoonful  of  butter.  When 
it  comes  to  a  boil  drop  in  the  cucumbers  and  let  them  get  heated 
through,  shaking  the  saucepan  to  prevent  burning.  This  may  be 
served  on  slices  of  toast  like  asparagus,  and  is  a  very  delicate 
dish. 

Apple  Charlotte — Use  a  quart  of  sliced  sour  apples,  a  pint  of 
fine  bread  crumbs,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  or  two 
eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Steam  the  apples  soft.  Butter  a  pudding 
dish.  Put  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs  and  apple  in  the  dish, 
sprinkling  the  apples  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  with  a  layer  of 
crumbs  on  top.  Beat  the  egg,  using  the  remaining  yolk  from  the 
potato  cream,  add  the  salt  and  milk  and  turn  the  mixture  over 
the  bread  and  apples.  Place  the  butter  in  bits  on  top  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  milk  is  absorbed. 
Eat  with  sweetened  cream.  Shirley  de  Forest. 

Box  596,  Janesville,  Wis. 


400  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

SATURDAY,  AUGUST  THE  TWENTY-EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Rolled  oats.  Sugar  and  cream. 

Boiled  salted  salmon.  Baked  potatoes. 

Muffins.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Welsh  rarebit.  Sweet  potato  fritters. 

Cake.  Italian  jelly. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Mock  bisque  soup. 

Beefsteak  pie.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Cauliflower.  Celery  and  apple  salad. 

Apple   John.  Coffee. 


Boiled  Salted  Salmon — Soak  one  pound  of  salted  salmon  all 
night.  In  the  morning  put  in  the  skillet,  with  enough  fresh  wa- 
ter to  cover,  and  boil  about  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  and  lay  on 
hot  platter.    Over  the  fish  lay  bits  of  butter  and  dust  with  pepper. 

Muffins — Beat  well  together  two  eggs;  add  one  cupful  of  milk 
and  one-quarter  spoonful  of  salt;  pour  over  one  heaping  pint  of 
sifted  fiour  and  stir  until  smooth;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, melted,  and  beat  hard  until  little  bubbles  can  be  seen  in  the 
batter.  Stir  in  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  beat 
again  for  an  instant  and  pour  into  hot,  greased  gem-pans,  filling 
them  two-thirds  full.     Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Welsh  Rarebit — Scald  one-quarter  cup  of  milk.  Stir  into  this 
when  hot  one  cupful  of  grated  cheese,  with  which  has  been  mixed 
one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  spoonful  of  mus- 
tard (dry)  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  When  the  cheese  is  melted 
add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs;  stir  and  cook  a  minute, 
and  pour  over  hot  toast.  In  preparing  a  rarebit  by  this  method 
a  rich  crumbly  cheese  should  be  used,  as  skimmed  milk  cheese 
will  not  melt,  but  remain  in  the  liquid  a  tough  mass. 

White  Layer  Cake — If  this  recipe  is  exactly  followed  the  re- 
sult cannot  but  please:  Half-cup  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups 
sugar  (granulated),  half-cup  milk,  two  cups  pastry  flour  (meas- 
ured before  sifting),  whites  of  six  eggs  and  one  teaspoonful  bak- 
ing powder.  Cream  together  sugar  and  butter;  add  the  milk  and 
beat  together.  Then  add  flour  sifted  five  times.  Beat  well  and 
add  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  lemon  and  vanilla,  and  six 
drops  bitter  almond.  Then  add  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs  and 
the  baking  powder.  Bake  in  two  layers.  The  oven  should  not  be 
too  hot  when  put  in,  to  give  cake  time  to  rise.     Hold  hand  in 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  401 

oven;  if  cool  enough  to  count  forty  it  is  right.  Fill  and  ice  with 
plain  boiled  icing  made  by  boiling  one  and  a  half  cups  of  gran- 
ulated sugar  and  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water  until  it 
threads.  Pour  slowly  over  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  beat- 
ing continually  until  smooth  and  shiny.  Both  cake  and  icing 
should  be  cool  when  used. 

Baked  Beefsteak  Pie — Cut  one  pound  of  round  steak  in 
pieces  about  two  inches  square  and  brown  in  spider,  carefully 
saving  gravy;  when  turned  once  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
This  must  not  be  thoroughly  cooked — just  browned  on  outside. 
Parboil  two  potatoes,  and  when  about  half  done  cut  in  eighths. 
Put  both  meat  and  potatoes  in  pudding-pan  and  season  with 
three-quarters  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoon- 
ful  of  pepper.  Cover  with  crust  made  as  follows:  One  cup  sifted 
flour,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  powder.  Into  this  rub  one  small  tablespoonful  of 
lard  or  butter.  Moisten  with  milk  until  just  soft  enough  to  roll 
out,  which  usually  requires  about  three-quarters  of  a  teacupful 
of  milk.  Cut  slits  in  top  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Sometimes 
I  add  a  few  dumplings  made  of  the  crust  to  the  inside  of  the  pie. 

Cauliflower — Soak  the  flower  head  down  in  salted  water  to 
drain  out  insects,  if  there  be  any.  Rinse  and  put  into  boiling- 
salted  water.  In  ten  minutes  pour  off  this  water;  add  fresh  salted 
boiling  v/ater  and  boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  longer. 
Make  a  drawn  butter  sauce  thus:  Rub  together  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  with  one  of  flour  until  smooth.  Season  v/ith  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper  and  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  add  to  this  one  cup  of  milk  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Lay  the  unbroken  head  of 
cauliflower  in  vegetable  dish  and  turn  over  the  sauce,  which 
should  be  just  thick  enough  to  pour. 

Celery  and  Apple  Salad — Peel  two  apples  and  cut  into  large 
dice.  Cut  one  stalk  of  celery  into  pieces  the  same  size.  Mix  well 
and  add  a  dressing  made  of  the  yolk  of  two  eggs  beaten  thorough- 
ly, one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  spoonful  of  cayenne 
pepper,  one  of  prepared  mustard  and  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter. Stir  into  the  mixture  one-half  cup  of  vinegar;  stir  with  sil- 
ver or  wooden  spoon  until  thick.  If  too  thick  it  may  be  thinned 
with  a  little  sweet  or  sour  cream. 

Apple  John — One  cup  of  sifted  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  powder,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  half-cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  well  beaten,  and 
one  pint  of  apples,  sliced.  Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder 
and  salt.  Rub  in  butter,  beat  in  egg  and  milk.  This  should  be 
a  thick,  very  thick  batter.  Put  apples  in  deep  pan  and  spread 
over  them  the  batter.  When  baked  reverse,  cover  with  sugar, 
nutmeg  and  butter  and  serve  with  cream  or  with  a  cream  sauce. 

Sauce— One  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  pulver- 
ized sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one  large  cup  of  boiling 
water,  one  teaspoon,  heaping  full  of  flour.  Beat  butter,  sugar 
and  flavoring  till  very  light  and  creamy.    Put  water  in  sauce-pan 


402  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

and  add  tlie  flour,  mixed  in  a  little  cold  water.  Cook  this  until 
like  tiiin  starch;  add  to  butter  and  sugar  mixture,  beating  brisk- 
ly and  pouring  gradually.  If  the  beating  is  not  stopped  for  a 
moment  the  whole  sauce  will  rise  and  be  very  foamy. 

Mrs.  Edwin  B.  Barnum. 
No.  1330  Eighth  Street,  Des  Moines,  Iowa. 


SUNDAY,  AUGUST  THE  TWENTY-NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Peaches,  served  with  cream. 

Hashed  veal  with  poached  eggs. 

Graham  muffins.    Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Potato  salad,  with  cold  fish. 

Whole  tomatoes  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Wafers.     Drop  cakes.      Iced  tea. 


DINNER. 

Kentucky  fried  chicken. 

Corn  pudding.      Cream  potatoes. 

Broiled  egg  plant. 

Peach  shortcake. 

Coffee. 


Kentucky  Fried  Chicken — The  chicken  should  always  be 
dressed  and  kept  in  ice-box  for  at  least  twelve  hours  before 
using.  Flour  each  piece  and  dust  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper, 
use  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per in  all.  The  frying-pan  should  be*  half-full  of  lard  and  the 
latter  smoking  hot,  when  the  chicken  is  put  in.  Then  cover  and 
cook  slowly  for  one-half  hour,  turning  from  time  to  time.  When 
done,  pour  the  fat  from  the  pan  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  let  brown;  then  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  pour  in  a  cup 
of  milk,  add  a  small  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  pepper 
and  let  thicken.  Serve  gravy  in  a  separate  dish.  Put  little  strips 
of  fried  pastry  around  the  chicken. 

Broiled  Egg  Plant — Cut  the  egg  plant  in  thick  slices,  care- 
fully paring  each  piece.  Throw  it  in  salt  and  water  and  let  re- 
main three  hours.  Take  from  the  water,  drain  and  wipe.  Then 
butter  the  slices  of  egg  plant,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  grated 
cracker  and  broil  until  a  light  brown.  Dash  pepper  over  them 
and  serve. 

Peach  Shortcake — Make  a  rich  pastry.  Roll  thin  and  bake 
three  crusts  in  pie-pans.    Let  them  get  thoroughly  cold.    Take 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  403 

peaches  left  from  breakfast,  mash  them  well  and  sweeten.  Spread 
between  the  crusts.  Pat  in  cold  place.  Serve  v/ith  whipped 
cream.     This  is  delicious  and  Yery  inexpensive. 

Mrs.  U  D.  Potter. 
Bowling  Green,  Ky. 


MONDAY,  AUGUST  THE  THIRTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  pears. 

Frizzled  beef.  Bread  and  butter. 

Waffles,  maple  sirup.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Graham  bread  and  butter. 

Veal  loaf.  Ripe  cucumber  pickles. 

Apple  jelly.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Noodle  soup. 

Boiled  beef,  horseradish  sauce.      Boiled  potatoes. 

Graham  fruit  pudding,  with  sauce. 

Coffee. 


Graham  Bread — Two  cups  of  buttermilk,  half  a  cup  of  molas- 
ses, pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus;  stir  all  well  to- 
gether, add  two, cups  of  wheat  flour,  scant  half  a  cup  of  cornmeal 
and  enough  graham  flour  to  make  stiff. 

Veal  Loaf — One  pound  of  fresh  veal,  one-half  pound  of  fresh 
pork,  all  chopped  well.  To  this  add  two  eggs,  large  tablespoonful 
of  grated  bread  crumbs,  half  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  some  chop- 
ped parsley,  one  good-sized  onion,  chopped  fine,  dash  of  red  pep- 
per, and  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt;  mix  all  thoroughly  to- 
gether, and  bake  in  deep  breadpan,  laying  on  top  a  bay  leaf  and 
one  large  slice  of  bacon.     Bake  half  an  hour. 

Ripe  Cucumber  Pickles — Take  six  large,  ripe  yellow  cucum- 
bers, cut  in  halves,  take  out  all  the  seeds  and  pulp;  then  cut  in 
strips  like  your  finger,  stand  over  night  in  salt,  so  as  to  draw  out 
the  water  from  cucumbers.  Take  each  strip  next  morning  and 
wipe  as  dry  as  possible,  placing  them  back  in  Jar  as  you  do  so. 
Have  half  a  dozen  red  peppers  prepared,  by  removing  seeds,  and 
cut  in  small,  narrow  pieces  about  an  inch  long;  have  also  one 
fresh  horseradish,  prepared  in  same  way,  in  small  pieces,  and 
about  a  pound  of  mustard  seed;  sprinkle  all  these  in  between 
the  slices  of  cucumbers;  have  enough  vinegar  to  cover  same  boil- 
ing hot,  and  pour  over.      On  the  third  morning  scald  vinegar 


404  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

again,  and  they  are  then  ready  for  use  when  cold.     They  can  be 
put  away  in  glass  bottles  on  the  third  morning. 

Apple  Jelly — Take  large,  ripe  cooking  apples,  put  small 
amount  of  water  on  same;  after  all  are  well  cooked  remove  from 
stove  and  place  in  cheese-cloth  bag,  made  three-cornered  shape, 
with  the  long  point  down,  put  jelly  in  this  and  let  drip.  When 
all  the  juice  has  been  extracted,  measure,  and  to  one  glass  of 
juice  add  three-fourths  of  a  glass  of  sugar.  If  you  want  good 
success  with  jelly  never  cook  more  than  three  or  four  glasses  at 
a  time.  Cook  all  jellies,  v/hen  water  has  been  added,  longer  than 
when  it  has  not.  This  jelly  to  be  cooked  about  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes;  then  have  glasses  ready;  in  each  glass  put  a  nice,  large 
fresh  rose  geranium  leaf;  pour  hot  jelly  on  same.  The  leaf  will 
turn  yellow  and  come  to  the  top,  and  it  then  can  be  removed. 
The  flavor  of  this  jelly  is  indescribable.  It  is  a  very  fine  way  for 
flavoring  cake  dough,  when  out  of  extract,  by  placing  leaf  bottom 
of  cakepan  and  then  pouring  dough  over  same. 

Tea — Have  pot  good  and  hot  hy  pouring  hot  water  in  same  and 
letting  stand  until  the  water  in  tea  kettle  is  boiling;  always  have 
fresh  water  in  tea  kettle  and  never  let  it  boil  any  time  before 
making  tea;  keep  a  whole  vanilla  bean  in  tea  canister;  this  gives 
a  nice  flavor  to  same.  One  can  put  a  piece  about  an  inch  long 
in  tea  while  steeping  if  it  is  liked. 

Horseradish  Sauce — Take  the  fresh  horseradish,  grate  about 
one-half  cup;  to  this  add  two  rolled  crackers,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar and  a  large  cup  of  the  soup  taken  from  beef;  stir  all  well 
together,  adding  crackers  and  horseradish  last,  for  the  longer  you 
boil  horseradish  the  weaker  it  grows. 

Boiled  Potatoes — Always  put  potatoes  into  boiling  water  with 
quite  a  little  salt;  when  done  pour  off  all  the  water,  and  then 
shake  over  fire  until  they  become  mealy  and  dry. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Becker. 

No.  4329  Oakenwald  avenue,  Chicago. 


TUESDAY,  AUGUST  THE  THIRTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Liver  cutlets  with  fried  tomatoes. 

Popovers.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Eggs  a  la  creme. 

Thinly  sliced  bread  and  butter. 

Frozen  meringue.  Dover  cake. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  405 

DINNER. 

Soup   crecy. 

Timbaie  of  beef. 

Buttered  parsnips.  Potato  salad. 

Fruit  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Grapes — Some  one  has  said  that  the  art  of  breakfasting  right- 
ly is  one  of  the  distinguishing  marks  of  higher  civilization.  Noth- 
ing is  more  conducive  to  this  end  than  a  well-set  table  and  dainti- 
ly served  dishes.  The  bunches  of  grapes  should  be  dipped  in 
ice  water  and  drained  quite  dry  before  serving.  This  fruit  looks 
nicer  on  delicate,  light  china  and  a  few  leaves  in  the  fruit  dish 
will  add  much  to  the  effect. 

Liver  Cutlets — Buy  half  a  pound  of  liver  and  have  it  sliced 
thin;  scald  it,  then  wipe  dry.  Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  dip  the 
slices  in  it,  then  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs.  Sprinkle  with  one- 
quarter  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Fry 
in  bacon  drippings  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter.  Save  the  white  of 
the  egg  for  your  meringue. 

Eggs  a  la  Creme — This  dish  calls  for  five  hard  boiled  eggs, 
about  two  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  of  milk,  one-half  table- 
spoon of  butter,  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a 
quarter-teaspoon  of  pepper.  Scatter  bread  crumbs  over 
the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  lay  on  the  eggs  sliced 
in  thin  rings,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter. 
Continue  thus  to  blend  these  ingredients  until  the  dish  is  near- 
ly full.  Have  the  top  layer  crumbs,  then  pour  the  milk  over  the 
whole  mixture  and  bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven. 

Frozen  Meringue — Apples  are  so  cheap  we  all  can  enjoy  this 
delightful  cream.  If  the  day  should  prove  cool,  it  will  be  quite 
good  without  freezing.  To  make  apple  meringue  or  cream,  take 
one  pint  of  thick  stewed  apples,  press  through  a  sieve,  add  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar,  and  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Stir  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat  until  light  and  foarny.  Add 
one-half  pint  of  milk,  or  cream  if  you  have  it,  and  freeze. 

Dover  Cake — This  recipe  makes  a  cake  as  delicate  as  the 
most  excellent  pound  cake  and  less  expensive.  One-fourth  cup 
of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one-fourth  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  one  level  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and 
one-half  teaspoon  of  rose-water  or  rind  and  juice  of  half  a  lem- 
on. Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  mix  with  them  the  yolks  whip- 
ped light,  then  the  milk  and  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  pow- 
der. Add  the  rose-water,  and  lastly,  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Stir  all  well  and  bake  in  a  loaf,  using  a  small  square  or 
oblong  baking  pan.    This  cake  should  be  made  the  day  before. 

Soup  Crecy — Many  persons  do  not  realize  how  helpful  soups 
are  to  economical  living;  now  vegetables  are  so  plentiful  and 
cheap,  the  best  of  soup  may  be  made  with  very  little  expense. 
Take  two  good-sized  carrots,  one  potato,  and  one  turnip.     Pare 


406  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

the  vegetables  and  cut  in  small  dice.  Boil  in  one  quart  of  water 
until  tender;  rub  through  a  sieve  and  return  the  paste  to  the  wa- 
ter. Add  one  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion,  one-half  saltspoon 
of  celery  salt,  one  large  saltspoon  of  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  of 
pepper,  one-half  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  one  cup  of  milk.  Let 
this  boil  for  five  minutes.  Mix  smoothly  one  tablespoon  of  flour 
v/ith  a  little  cold  water;  add  to  the  soup,  and  stir  until  it  thick- 
ens.    Serve  with  croutons. 

Timbale  of  Beef — Chop  fine  about  one  pint  of  cold  cooked 
beef,  free  from  fat  and  gristle;  add  to  it  one-half  cup  of  cracker 
or  bread  crumbs,  one  large  half-teaspoon  of  salt,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoon of  pepper,  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  onion  juice.  Heat 
two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  stock  or  milk;  add  it  to  the  meat,  with  one 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg.  (Use  the 
yolk  left  from  the  meringue.)  Mix  thoroughly,  and  put  in  a  well- 
greased  mold  or  bowl,  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water;  cover  with 
a  greased  paper,  and  bake  about  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Turn  out  on  a  hot  platter  and  serve  with  brov/n  sauce  if  liked. 

Potato  Salad — Pare  and  boil  five  medium-sized  potatoes. 
When  done,  drain  and  press  through  a  coarse  sieve.  While  hot 
stir  in  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  finely  chopped  onion  and 
one-half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  until  light.  Take  the  pounded 
yellow  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs.  Mix  with  it  one-quarter  teaspoon 
of  pepper,  the  same  of  mustard  and  celery  salt;  beat  in  gradually 
one-quarter  cup  of  vinegar.  Mix  this  thoroughly  with  the  pota- 
toes, then  add  the  finely  chopped  whites  of  the  eggs.  Set  on  ice 
until  ready  to  serve  and  heap  lightly  in  a  pretty  salad  bowl. 
This  is  a  much  more  digestible  salad  than  when  made  in  the 
usual  way  with  chopped  potatoes. 

Fruit  Pudding — One  pint  of  flour;  one  heaping  tablespoon 
of  lard,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water, 
one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  through  the  flour;  one  salt- 
spoon of  salt;  cold  water  enough  to  make  into  a  tolerably  stiff 
paste;  one  pint  of  sliced  peaches.  Roll  out  the  crust  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick  into  an  oblong  sheet.  Cover  thickly 
with  the  peaches  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Begin  at  one  end, 
and  roll  it  up  closely,  the  fruit  inside.  In  putting  this  in,  leave 
a  narrow  margin  at  the  other  end  of  the  roll,  which  should  be 
folded  down  closely.  Pinch  the  ends  of  the  folded  roll  together, 
to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  fruit.  Tie  up  in  a  floured  cloth  and 
boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  hot  with  sauce.  This  is 
a  cheap  but  good  pudding,  better  than  many  a  richer  one. 

Lucy  Withrow. 

Lexington,  Va. 


WEDNESDAY,   SEPTEMBER  THE  FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  pears  with  cream. 
Hashed  meat  gems.        Hygienic  graham  muffins. 


Coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  407 

LUNCHEON. 

Codfish  salad. 

Bread  and  butter.  Baked  bananas. 

Almond  cake.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Onion  and  cucumber  soup. 

Vealettes.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Egg  plant  baked  with  cheese. 

Peach  water  ice.  Coffee. 


Baked  Pears — Pare  and  core  five  large,  sweet  pears  without 
dividing;  place  them  in  a  baking  dish  and  fill  each  pear  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar;  add  a  little  water  and  bake  until  perfectly 
tender.     Serve  with  sweet  cream. 

Meat  Gems — Remove  all  pieces  of  fat,  bone  and  gristle  from 
cold  roast  beef  or  pork  that  is  verj'^  lean,  and  chop  fine  or  put  it 
through  a  meat  cutter.  To  one  large  cup  of  the  chopped  meat 
add  an  equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter;  moisten 
with  half  a  cup  of  milk  and  heat  thoroughly.  Then  fill  gem  pans 
nearly  full  with  the  mixture;  break  an  egg  on  the  top  of  each 
and  bake  until  the  egg  is  cooked. 

Hygienic  Muffins — Grease  the  muffin  rings  and  put  them  in 
an  oven  to  get  very  hot.  Put  two  cups  of  ice-water  and  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  into  a  large  bowl;  take  three  and  one-half  cups 
of  graham  flour;  take  it  up  by  handfuls,  holding  it  high  over  the 
bowl,  which  should  stand  in  a  current  of  air,  and  sprinkle  slowly 
into  the  ice-water,  beating  all  the  while;  then  pour  into  the  very 
hot  rings,  put  at  once  into  a  very  hot  oven  and  bake  about  thirty- 
five  minutes. 

Codfish  Salad — Salt  codfish  salad  is  very  nice  for  luncheon  in 
hot  weather.  Soak  about  a  pound  of  fish  over  night,  boil  and  set 
av/ay  to  become  cold;  just  before  serving  time  flake  the  fish,  re- 
moving all  the  bones  and  skin;  arrange  on  a  bed  of  tender  let- 
tuce and  pour  over  a  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Baked  Bananas — Strip  off  one-third  of  the  skin  of  each  ba- 
nana, and  with  a  spoon  loosen  the  remainder  from  the  fruit;  ar- 
range in  a  baking  dish  the  stripped  sides  uppermost;  on  each  lay 
one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  bits  and  sprinkle  with  one 
teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  The  bananas  may 
be  entirely  stripped,  if  desired,  but  the  skin  contains  considerable 
pectin,  which  it  is  well  to  have. 

Almond  Cake — Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter,  add  gradually 
one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  small  half-teaspoonful  of  almond  ex- 
tract; mix  and  sift  one  cup  of  flour,  one-half  a  cup  of  cornstarch 
and  one  level  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  add  alternately  with 
one-half  cup  of  milk  to  the  first  mixture;  beat  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  until  stiff;  add  and  stir  in  carefully.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 


408  THE    CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Onion  and  Cucumber  Soup — Peel  and  cut  in  thin  slices,  cross- 
wise, two  good-sized  onions  and  three  cucumbers;  cover  with  one 
pint  of  boiling  water  and  one  pint  of  veal  or  chicken  stock,  and 
simmer  very  slowly  for  one  hour;  then  rub  through  a  sieve,  press- 
ing hard,  so  as  to  obtain  as  much  of  the  pulp  as  possible;  re- 
turn to  the  fire  and  keep  hot.  In  a  double  boiler  scald  one  pint 
of  milk  and  stir  into  it  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  of 
flour  rubbed  together  to  a  paste;  when  thick  and  smooth,  add 
to  the  strained  soup;  season  with  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
saltspoonful  of  pepper;  simmer  for  five  minutes,  and  serve  with 
croutons. 

Vealettes — Purchase  veal  cut  from  the  leg,  in  slices  as  large 
as  one's  hand,  and  about  half  an  inch  thick.  On  each  slice  lay 
a  large  tablespoonful  of  dressing,  made  from  a  cup  of  bread 
crumbs,  a  beaten  egg,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  a  good  dash  of  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  sage  and 
summer  savory  mixed.  Roll  up  the  slices,  pinning  with  wooden 
toothpicks  to  keep  the  dressing  in.  Put  a  little  butter  and  water 
in  a  baking  pan  with  the  veal  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour.  Baste  often,  and  when  done  thicken  the  gravy, 
pour  over  the  veal  and  serve  on  hot  platter,  with  thin  slices  of 
lemon. 

Egg  Plant  Baked  with  Cheese — Place  tv/o  egg  plants  in  a 
bowl,  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  cover  and  let  stand  ten  min- 
utes. Then  peel  and  slice  one-quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 
Divide  each  slice  in  four,  season  with  one  small  saltspoon  of  pep- 
per and  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  fry  in  a  little  butter  or 
fresh-rendered  suet  over  a  quick  fire,  placing  them  on  a  hot  pan 
when  cooked.  Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of 
flour,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne 
In  a  saucepan;  add  one-half  of  a  cup  of  stock  and  one  of  milk; 
stir  until  thick  and  smooth,  and  simmer  five  minutes.  Arrange 
the  slices  of  egg  plant  in  a  greased  baking  dish,  putting  a  spoon- 
ful of  the  sauce  and  a  sprinkle  of  grated  cheese  between  each 
layer.  Put  one  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  bits  over  the  top  and 
bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  even. 

Peach  Water  Ice — Cut  eight  good-sized  very  ripe  peaches  in 
pieces.  Mash  them  and  add  one  cup  of  sugar;  then  add  the 
juice  of  three  lemons,  mixed  v/itli  half  of  a  cup  of  sugar.  Let 
stand  twenty  minutes.  Add  one  quart  of  water,  beat,  strain  and 
freeze.  Marion  Wilson. 

No.  6407  Lexington  avenue,  Chicago. 


THURSDAY,   SEPTEMBER  THE  SECOND, 


BREAKFAST. 

Melon,  iced. 

Wheatlets  with  cream. 

Pvleat  omelets.  Pried  potatoes. 

Popovers.  Coffee. 


THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  409 

LUNCHEON. 

Scalloped  fish.  Stuffed  potatoes. 

Buttered  toast. 

Peaches.  Jumbles. 

Iced   tea. 


DINNER. 

Veal  broth. 

Braised  lamb. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Succotash. 

Tomato  salad. 

Steamed  blueberry  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Meat  Omelets — One  cup  cold  beef,  or  veal,  finely  chopped,  one 
cup  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  one  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  salt,  pep- 
per, and  if  veal  is  used  a  small  pinch  of  sage  or  marjoram.  Mix 
thoroughly,  having  the  bread  soft  and  fine.  Add  last  the  beaten 
eggs,  and  drop  by  the  spoonful  into  hot  beef  drippings,  and  fry 
a  delicate  brown. 

Stuffed  Potatoes — Select  six  potatoes  of  even  size.  Cut  a 
thin  slice  from  one  end,  that  they  may  stand  firm,  and  put  in  the 
oven  to  bake.  As  soon  as  thoroughly  done  remove  from  the  oven, 
and  with  sharp  scissors  cut  a  lid  from  the  upper  end  and  scoop 
out  the  potato  into  a  hot  bowl  with  a  teaspoon,  keeping  the  skin 
quite  whole.  Point  the  edge  of  the  skin  with  the  scissors.  Beat 
the  potato  in  the  bowl  quite  light  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream, 
a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg.  Salt. 
Then  fill  the  skins  with  the  mixture,  heaping  it  high  on  top. 
Set  the  potatoes  carefully  on  end  and  return  to  oven  for  ten  min- 
utes to  heat.     Serve  on  a  platter  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Veal  Broth — Take  a  knuckle  of  veal  costing  15  cents  and  put 
it  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  closely  fitting  cover.  Add  three  pints  of 
cold  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  set  it  where  it  will  boil 
very  gently  three  hours  before  dinner.  After  two  hours  add  a 
small  onion,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  and  a  stalk  of  celery  or 
a  little  celery  seed,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Remove  the 
meat  before  serving,  but  leave  the  rice.  This  is  a  simple  and  de- 
licious soup. 

Braised  Lamb — Take  a  fore-quarter  of  lamb  weighing  five 
or  six  pounds,  and  have  the  butcher  remove  the  shoulder  blade. 
Put  into  your  braising-pan  one  spoonful  of  butter  or  beef  drip- 
pings. Add  one  onion,  sliced,  and  half  a  small  turnip.  Brown 
these  well  and  then  draw  the  vegetables  to  one  side  and  lay  in 
the  lamb,  dredging  it  with  fiour.  Brown  on  one  side.  Then  turn 
and  brown  the  other.  Then  add  one  pint  of  water,  a  bouquet 
of  sweet  herbs  and  sprinkle  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  perfectly  close  and 
cook  one  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven.     Dish  the  meat, 


410  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

thicken  the  gravy  with  a  spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a 
■very  little  water,  let  it  boil  up  on  top  of  the  stove,  then  strain 
over  the  meat. 

Succotash — One  dozen  ears  green  corn,  one  pint  shelled  lima 
beans,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  the  corn 
from  the  cobs,  scoring  through  each  row  if  the  corn  be  large. 
Scrape  lightly  with  the  back  of  the  knife,  and  put  beans  and  cobs 
on  to  boil  an  hour  before  dinner,  with  not  quite  a  quart  of  water. 
Twenty  minutes  before  serving  remove  the  cobs  and  part  of  the 
water.  Add  the  cut  corn  and  boil  very  gently  that  it  may  not 
burn.  Add  the  butter,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  dish.  The  water  should  be  evaporated  by  the  time 
the  corn  is  done. 

Steamed  Blueberry  Pudding — One  pint  of  flour,  one  pint  of 
berries,  washed  and  drained  in  a  sieve;  two  slightly  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  milk  to  mix — about  one  cup.  Sift  the 
soda,  cream  of  tartar  and  salt  into  the  flour  and  stir  well,  then 
add  the  berries  and  just  enough  milk  to  mix  the  whole  to  a  stiff 
batter.  Put  in  a  well-buttered  tin  mold  or  pail,  which  set  into  a 
sauce-pan  half-filled  with  boiling  water.  The  saucepan  must 
have  a  tightly  fitting  cover.  Let  cook  for  one  hour  and  a  half, 
and  serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 

Sauce — Cream  half  a  teacup  of  butter;  add  one  cup  of  sugar 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour.  Beat  well.  Pour  on  one  teacup 
of  boiling  water.  Let  boil  for  two  minutes  and  flavor  with  nut- 
meg or  vanilla  if  preferred.  This  is  a  very  excellent  pudding  and 
also  very  inexpensive.  Catherine  Forest. 

No.  82  Bridge  street,  Northampton,  Mass. 


FRIDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  apples.  Sugar  and  cream. 

Dropped  eggs.  Potato  fritters. 

Quick  coffee  bread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Welsh  rarebit. 

Cucumber  salad.  French  dressing. 

Viennois  cakes.  Iced  milk. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  celery  soup. 

Baked  halibut  steaks.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Minced  cabbage. 

Peach  sponge.  Tea, 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOCK.  411 

Dropped  Eggs — Have  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  salt  in  a  frying  pan.  Break  five  eggs,  one  by 
one,  into  a  saucer  and  slide  carefully  into  the  salted  water.  Cook 
until  the  white  is  firm,  and  lift  out  with  a  griddle-cake  turner, 
and  place  each  egg  on  a  half  slice  of  hot-buttered  toast. 

Potato  Fritters — One  pint  of  boiled  and  mashed  potatoes,  one- 
half  cupful  of  hot  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  eggs, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Add  the  milk,  butter  and  salt  to  the 
mashed  potatoes,  and  then  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Stir  until" 
very  smooth  and  light.  Spread  about  one  inch  thick  on  a  but- 
tered dish,  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold  cut  in  squares.  Dip 
in  beaten  egg  and  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  brown  in  boiling  fat. 
Serve  at  once. 

Quick  Coffee  Bread — One  quart  of  flour,  one  level  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  five  eggs  well 
beaten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  softened  butter.  Beat  well,  spread  in  a  pan 
and  sprinkle  sugar,  a  little  cinnamon  and  bits  of  butter  on  top, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Welsh  Rarebit — Half  a  pound  of  fresh  cheese,  two  eggs,  one- 
quarter  saltspoonful  cayenne,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
teaspoonful  of  mustard,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  cup 
cream.  Break  the  cheese  in  small  pieces,  and  put  it  and  the 
other  ingredients  in  a  light  sauce-pan,  which  put  over  boiling  wa- 
ter. Stir  until  the  cheese  melts;  then  spread  the  mixture  on 
slices  of  hot  crisp  toast.  Serve  at  once.  Water  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  cream. 

Cucumber  Salad — Cut  about  one  inch  off  the  point  of  the  cu- 
cumber and  pare.  (The  bitter  juice  is  in  the  point,  and  if  this 
is  not  cut  off  before  paring  the  knife  carries  the  flavor  all 
through  the  cucumber.)  Cut  in  thin  slices,  cover  with  cold  wa- 
ter and  let  stand  one-half  hour.  Drain  and  season  with  French 
dressing. 

French  Dressing — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  of 
vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  a  saltspoonful  of  pep- 
per. Put  the  salt  and  pepper  in  a  cup  and  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  the  butter,  when  thoroughly  mixed  add  remainder  of  butter 
and  vinegar. 

Minced  Cabbage — Drain  boiled  cabbage  in  a  colander.  Put 
it  in  the  chopping  tray  and  chop  fine.  For  one  quart  of  chopped 
cabbage  put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  in  the 
frying  pan.  As  soon  as  smooth  and  hot  put  in  the  cabbage,  and 
season  with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Stir  constantly  for  five  min- 
utes. When  done  heap  on  a  dish.  Make  smooth  with  a  knife 
and  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Peach  Sponge — One  pint  of  pared  peaches,  one-half 
package  of  gelatine,  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  one  scant  cup  of 
sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  water.  Soak  the  gelatine  for  two 
hours  in  one-half  cup  of  water.  Boil  the  cup  of  water  and  sugar 
fifteen  minutes.    Mash  the  peaches  fine,  rub  through  a  sieve  and 


412  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

put  in  the  sirup.  Cook  five  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Place 
the  sauce  pan  in  another  of  boiling  water  and  add  the  gelatine. 
Stir  for  five  minutes  to  dissolve  the  gelatine;  then  place  the  sauce 
pan  in  a  dish  of  ice  water  and  beat  the  sirup  until  it  cools.  Add 
the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
When  it  will  just  pour  turn  it  into  the  mold  and  set  away  to 
harden.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  Mrs.  Byron  Backus. 
No.  112  East  Milwaukee  street,  Janesville,  Wis. 


SATURDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 

Farinose  and  cream.  Rice  muffins. 

Pried  brains.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Hoe  cakes.  Pried   scallops. 

Potato  cakes.  Apple  sauce. 

Cookies.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Mutton  chops.        Mashed  potatoes. 

Green  corn.      Entire  wheat  bread.      Pickled  onions. 

Sliced  peaches.  Coffee. 


Fried  Brains — After  leaving  a  pound  and  a  half  of  brains 
in  salt  and  water  for  an  hour,  remove  the  membrane  which 
covers  them,  put  them  over  the  fire  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover 
them,  add  a  slice  of  carrot,  turnip  and  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley 
and  thyme,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  gill  of  vinegar  and  boil  them 
fifteen  minutes.  Take  them  up  and  dry  on  a  clean  cloth.  In  the 
morning  dip  in  bread  crumbs  and  beaten  egg  and  fry  in  smoking 
hot  fat.  Put  on  a  hot  dish  with  tomato  sauce  under  them  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 

Pried  Scallops — One  of  the  simplest  ways  of  cooking  the  scal- 
lop is  to  fry  it.  Drain  the  liquor  from  the  scallops  thoroughly, 
laying  them  in  a  sieve;  immerse  them  in  milk,  season  with  a  lit- 
tle salt  and  pepper  and  roll  in  fine  cracker  crumbs,  being  careful 
to  cover  them  thoroughly.  As  they  are  breaded,  put  them  into 
a  frying  basket  and  plunge  them  into  boiling  hot  fat.  Fry  them 
about  four  minutes,  drain  and  slip  them  on  brown  paper  to  ab- 
sorb any  extraneous  fat.  Then  serve  on  a  napkin  on  a  hot  plat- 
ter with  delicately  thin,  hot,  buttered  slices  of  brown  bread.  Mix 
about  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  fiour  with  every  cupful  of  sifted  crack- 
er crumbs  used  in  breading. 

Entire  Wheat  Bread— Two  cupfuls  of  entire  wheat  fiour,  one 
cupful  of  cornmeal,  two-thirds  cupful  of  molasses,  one  large  cup- 


TBfE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOIC  41S 

ful  of  sweet  milk^  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  two-thirds  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Steam  three  hours  and 
bake  one  hour. 

Pickled  Onions — Choose  small  onions  of  equal  size,  perfectly 
sound;  peel  them  without  breaking  off  the  tops  and  roots  so 
closely  as  to  cause  them  to  break  apart;  soak  them  for  tv^^enty- 
four  hours  in  strongly  salted  cold  water;  drain  and  dry  each  on 
a  cloth  before  putting  them  into  glass  jars;  heat  to  boiling  point 
sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  them,  scalding  with  it  mixed  whole 
cloves,  mace  and  peppercorns;  cool  the  vinegar  and  pour  it  over 
the  onions,  distributing  the  spices  among  the  jars.  The  second 
and  third  days  pour  off  the  vinegar,  scald  it  and  return  it  to 
the  jars,  after  it  has  become  cool.  On  the  third  day  seal  the  jars 
air-tight,  after   pouring  the  vinegar  over  the   onions, 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Matchett. 

No,  1106  Port  Dearborn  Building,  Chicago, 


SUNDAY,   SEPTEMBER   THE   FIFTH. 
(Offered  by  a  Louisiana  French  Creole.) 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  bananas,  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Ham  omelet.      Potato  biscuit. 

Cafe  au  lait. 


LUNCHEON. 

Creole  kedgeree.  Cucumber  jelly. 

Florendines.  Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Beef  gumbo,  with  tomatoes  and  ochras. 

Sweet  potatoes  a  la  Creole. 

Pineapple  sherbet.      '      Cafe  noire. 


Ham  Omelet — This  may  be  baked,  or  cooked  on  top  of  the 
stove  in  a  skillet;  be  sure,  however,  to  grease  the  latter  well. 
Mince  two  full  tablespoons  of  ham,  with  a  tiny  slice  of  garlic. 
If  latter  is  not  relished,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  may  be 
substituted.  Beat  six  eggs  separately;  mix  the  ham  with  its  rel- 
ish into  the  yolks.  Take  a  teacup  of  milk,  thicken  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour;  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  and  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Let  this  cool  somewhat,  then 
stir  in  yolks  which  have  been  mixed  with  the  ham;  lastly  add 
the  frothy  vv^hites,  stirring  very  lightly  with  a  knifebiade.  Have 
quick  oven;   serve  very  hot.     Bake  about  ten  minutes. 

Potato  Biscuit — Warm  half  cup  of  milk — enough  to  melt  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter.     Stir  into  it  a  pint  of  hot  mashed  po- 


414  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

tatoes,  seasoned  with  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  dashes  of  white 
pepper,  two  eggs  beaten  together;  sift  in  enough  flour  to  handle; 
lay  on  biscuit  board,  roll  lightly  into  thickness  of  an  inch;  cut 
out  with  cooky-cutter;  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  twenty 
minutes.  Can  be  baked  in  jelly-cake  pans,  and  cut  in  pie-shape 
pieces,  if  preferred.  Then  I  would  suggest  splitting  and  butter- 
ing before  sending  to  table. 

Cafe  au  Lait — Either  drip  or  boiled  coffee  may  be  used  for 
this.  Heat  unskimmed  milk  to  the  boiling  point;  sweeten,  add 
to  the  coffee  twenty  minutes  before  serving.  Whatever  of  this 
is  left  it  is  customary  among  the  Creoles  to  put  into  a  jug  of 
earthenware  and  allow  to  boil  up  for  ten  minutes,  then  cork 
tightly  and  put  aside  in  a  cool  place  to  be  used  as  drink  in  the 
evening  or  later  in  the  day.  Indeed,  it  is  expected  enough  will 
be  made  in  the  morning  to  allow  of  this  provision.  It  may  be 
slightly  less  strong  than  when  drank  hot  for  breakfast;  but 
treated  in  this  way  it  has  a  rich,  creamy  taste,  with  a  flavor  all 
its  own. 

Use  a  full  pint  of  unskimmed  milk  in  proportion  to  a  quart  of 
coffee,  and  heat  the  milk  to  a  boiling  point  before  combining 
them.  Sweeten  with  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  ac- 
cording to  taste.  Drip  coffee  is  made  in  proportion  of  one  table- 
spoonful  of  powdered  coffee  (that  is  ground  very  fine)  to  each 
person,  and  one  full  coffeecup  of  boiling  water  to  each  person. 
French  coffeepots  are  sold  everywhere  now.  Put  coffee  in  the 
receptacle,  pour  the  boiling  water  upon  it.  In  a  few  moments 
the  clear  liquid  will  be  ready  to  drink.  If  desired  stronger,  pass 
the  liquid  through  twice.  This  can  so  gracefully  be  done  by  the 
mistress  at  the  table.  Be  sure  to  have  water  actually  boiling 
when  using.  The  bubbles  should  rise  from  the  bottom  to  the 
surface  of  the  water. 

Creole  Kedgeree — Any  kind  of  cold  fresh  fish  can  be  used  for 
this  appetizing,  inexpensive  dish.  To  one  cupful  of  cold  trout, 
salmon  or  whitefish,  left  from  yesterday,  from  which  all  the  bones 
have  been  taken,  add  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  a  very  hard- 
boiled  egg,  chopped  fine,  a  slice  or  so  of  garlic,  or  onion,  or  one 
full  tablespoon  curry  powder,  if  preferred.  Drop  these  into  a 
hot  skillet;  as  the  butter  melts,  stir  the  ingredients  well  togeth- 
er. It  is  not  intended  to  fry  them,  only  to  thoroughly  heat  and 
blend  them — five  minutes  will  be  enough.  Serve  on  squares  of 
hot,  buttered  toast,  or  slices  of  buttered  bread.  If  curry  powder 
is  not  the  East  India  article,  a  little  lemon  juice  may  be  added. 

Cucumber  Jelly — This  is  especially  nice  to  serve  with  any 
fish,  or  it  makes  a  good  salad  course  served  with  lettuce  leaves, 
which  have  French  dressing  upon  them.  Pare  four  large  cu- 
cumbers, not  too  ripe.  Cut  up  and  stew  in  one  quart  of  water 
with  a  small  onion,  full  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  white 
pepper.  Soak  meanwhile  half  box  gelatine  in  teacup  cold  water. 
When  cucumbers  are  perfectly  soft  stir  in  the  gelatine  until  it 
is  fully  dissolved.     Then  strain  so  as  to  avoid  the  seeds.     When 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK    BOOK.  415 

almost  cold  peel  and  slice  very  thin  one  cucumber;  line  the  mold, 
which  has  been  wet  with  cold  water,  with  it;  pour  in  the  liquid 
jelly;  allow  to  "set"  very  firmly.  If  served  on  platter  upon 
lettuce  leaves  pour  the  French  dressing  over  the  mold  as  well 
as  leaves.  French  dressing  is  made  in  proportion  of  two  table- 
spoons of  salad  oil  to  one  of  vinegar,  with  half-teaspoon  salt. 

Florendines,  or  Fruit  Tarts — Can  be  made  of  any  fruit,  stewed 
if  possible  in  its  own  juice  or  with  as  little  water  as  possible; 
sweeten  well  after  cooking.  Line  small  crimped  pans  with  puff 
paste  or  rich  pie  crust  and  bake  them.  While  still  warm  drop 
in  the  fruit  and  return  to  the  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

Beef  Gumbo — Cut  up  one  and  one-half  pounds  lean  beef  into 
small  bits;  season  with  full  teaspoon  pepper,  two  teaspoons 
salt.  Slice  in  one  large  onion,  one  potato,  three  or  four  large 
tomatoes,  about  sixteen  fresh,  young,  small  ochras.  Cover  well 
with  about  a  quart  cold  water.  Allow  it  to  boil  very  slowly, 
cover  fitting  tightly,  until  everything  is  like  pulp  or  rags.  Then 
put  through  the  colander.  Toast  four  slices  of  bread,  cut  in 
quarter  slices,  or  dry  stale  bread  in  oven,  and  break  into  frag- 
ments; put  them  in  bottom  of  tureen  or  deep  vegetable  dish  and 
pour  the   gumbo   over. 

Sweet  Potatoes  a  la  Creole — Scrape  six  large  sweet  potatoes; 
cut  in  halves  the  long  way.  Put  in  deep  baking  dish,  cover  with 
milk,  add  half-teaspoon  salt  and  tablespoon  butter.  Wet  half- 
teacup  of  bread  crumbs  with  one  egg  lightly  beaten;  cover  the 
potatoes  with  these  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  an  hour. 

Pineapple  Sherbet — Boil  one  quart  of  water  and  a  pound  of 
sugar  for  fifteen  minutes,  so  that  a  thick  sirup  is  made.  Pare 
carefully  and  finely  shred  a  pineapple  two  hours  before  using. 
Cut  out  the  core,  so  that  almost  all  fruit  can  be  used.  Sprinkle 
with  two  tablespoons  sugar;  cover  well.  Allow  the 
fruit,  juice  and  shreds  to  infuse  in  the  warm  sirup  until  entirely 
cold — an  hour,  if  convenient.  Put  in  freezer;  when  the  little 
crystals  begin  to  form  on  sides  stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
three  eggs  and  return  to  freezer,  shaking  as  usual. 

Olympe  Boudinot. 

New  Orleans,  La. 


MONDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Iced  melons. 

Chipped  beef.  Toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Boulettes  of  liver. 

Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Spanish   shortcake. 

Apple  salad.  Tea. 


416  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Puree  of  celery. 

Baked  veal  cutlet.         Tomato  sauce. 

Curled  potatoes.  Sweet  pickle. 

Green  corn. 

Peach  cake.  Coffee. 


Peach  Cake — Make  any  good  white  cake,  bake  in  layers,  put 
sliced  peaches  between  the  layers  and  pour  whipped  cream  over 
the  peaches.  Mrs.  E.  L.  Wolcott. 

Highland  Park,  Lake  Co.,  111. 


TUESDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  peaches.  Powdered  sugar. 

A  veal  breakfast  relish.  Breakfast  potatoes. 

Southern  corn-pone. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Boston  brown  hash.  Brown  bread  and  butter. 

Green-grape  jelly. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Levigne  soup. 

Sirloin  steak,  with  bananas. 

Baked   potatoes   creamed.  Cabbage   salad. 

Apple   flipflaps.  Coffee. 


A  Veal  Breakfast  Relish — Cut  a  veal  cutlet  into  pieces  two 
inches  square.  Dust  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  first  into  beaten 
egg  and  then  into  cracker  crumbs.  Put  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter and  one  of  suet  into  a  frying-pan  and  brown  the  cutlets  on 
both  sides.  Make  a  brov/n  sauce  in  the  pan;  pour  over  the 
squares  and  serve. 

Breakfast  Potatoes — Slice  evenly  five  or  six  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes. Cut  two  small  onions  in  slices,  and  put  them  with  four 
ounces  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan.  When  the  onions  are  colored 
slightly  add  the  potatoes;  sprinkle  with  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt; 
toss  them  in  the  pan  until  they  are  a  good  color;  drain  and  serve 
with  chopped  parsley  (one  teaspoonful)   sprinkled  over  them. 

Southern  Corn-Pone — Take   one  quart  of     white     cornmeal. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  417 

Pour  over  it  just  enough  boiling  water  to  scald  it  through.  Stir 
thoroughly  and  let  stand  until  cold.  Rub  into  it  a  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg  and  a  teaspoonfui  of  salt.  Beat  two  eggs 
until  light;  add  them  to  the  meal;  mix  well;  add  one  pint  sour 
milk  or  buttermilk,  a  teaspoonfui  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  hot  water,  and  beat  until  smooth.  Turn  into  a 
greased  tin   and  bake  thirty-five  minutes  in   a   quick  oven. 

Boston  Brov\^n  Hash — Chop  up  the  remains  of  either  cold 
beef  or  mutton  to  the  amount  of  two  cupfuls  or  less.  Take  the 
same  quantity  of  cold  mashed  potatoes;  half  a  cup  of  bread 
crumbs  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  (If  the  pota- 
toes and  meat  have  been  properly  seasoned  when  cooked  no 
salt  will  be  required.)  Into  a  deep  dish  put  a  layer 
of  the  potatoes,  then  one  of  meat,  then  the  crumbs.  Add  the 
butter  in  small  bits;  moisten  with  one-half  cup  of  gravy;  put  a 
layer  of  potatoes  on  top.  Dip  a  knife  in  milk,  smooth  over  the 
top,  dust  lightly  with  pepper  and  bake  until  brown. 

Green-Grape  Jelly — Take  grapes  that  are  just  beginning  to 
turn.  Wash  in  cold  water  after  first  picking  them  from  the 
stems.  Add  one  cup  of  vv^ater  to  eight  pounds  of  the  fruit.  Stew 
until  soft.  Mash  and  strain  without  squeezing  through  a  cheese- 
cloth bag.  Return  to  fire,  let  come  to  a  boil  and  skin.  To  every 
cup  of  juice  add  a  cup  of  heated  sugar;  boil  twenty  minutes;  pour 
into  glasses.     Y/hen  cold,  seal. 

Levigne  Soup — Cut  two  carrots  and  a  small  onion  into  small, 
thin  pieces,  and  cook  until  tender  in  salted  v/ater.  Vv/'hen  done, 
drain,  and  add  them  to  three  pints  of  boiling  stock  free  from 
grease.  Beat  together  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one-half  gill 
of  cream.  Add  a  scant  teaspoonfui  of  salt  and  half  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  pepper  to  the  soup.  Remove  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  eggs 
and  serve. 

Steak  with  Bananas — Broil  a  sirloin  steak,  place  on  a  hot 
platter,  spread  both  sides  with  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
mixed  with  one  teaspoonfui  of  salt,  one-fourth  as  much  white 
pepper;  over  this  sprinkle  one  tablespoonful  of  grated  horse- 
radish. Pare  three  bananas  and  split  lengthwise,  fry  brown  in 
butter  and  lay  them  over  the  hot  steak. 

Baked  Potatoes  Creamed — Bake  eight  good-sized  pota^toes 
one-half  hour  in  a  hot  oven;  scoop  out  the  inside;  beat  at  once, 
with  one-half  cup  of  hot  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter 
and  a  teaspoonfui  of  salt.  Heap  on  a  plate,  touch  lightly  Vvitli 
yolk  of  an  egg,  brov/n  in  quick  oven  and  serve. 

Apple  Flipflaps — Butter  gem-pans  and  half  fill  them  with 
rich  biscuit  dough.  Pare,  core  and  slice  tart,  juicy  apples,  and 
fill  gem-pans;  placing  apples  on  top  of  the  dough.  Cover  with 
soft  maple  sugar,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  each  one;  adding 
also  a  teaspoonfui  of  butter  in  small  bits  to  each.  Bake  in 
quick  oven  and  serve  with  cream.  Mrs.  Carrie  Lawton. 

Delavan,  Wis. 


27 


418  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

WEDNESDAY,  SEPTEMBER   THE   EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Delaware  grapes. 

Oatmeal.  Milk. 

Frizzled  beef.       Potato  cakes. 

Southern  cornbread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Beauregard  eggs.  French  fried  potatoes. 

Thin  bread  and  butter. 
Whole  tomato  and  lettuce  salad — mayonnaise  dressing. 
Velvet  sponge  cake.  Iced  tea. 

DINNER. 

Brunswick  stew. 
Baked  sweet  potatoes  in  their  jackets. 

Celery  salad — French  dressing. 

Peach  cobbler  with  whipped  cream. 

Coffee. 


Frizzled  Beef — Chip  dried  beef  very  thin.  To  a  half-pound 
allow  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  half-pint  of  milk  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  then  add 
the  meat,  and  stir  over  the  fire  for  about  two  minutes,  or  until  the 
butter  begins  to  brown;  dredge  in  the  flour;  stir  again;  then 
add  the  milk,  and  a  little  pepper;  stir  again  until  it  boils,  and 
serve  immediately. 

Potato  Cakes — These  may  be  made  from  cold  mashed  potatoes 
left  from  yesterday's  dinner.  If  the  potatoes  be  dry  or  hard,  add 
a  little  milk  and  beat  with  a  fork  until  light.  Form  into  flat 
cakes,  not  too  large,  and  fry  in  very  hot  lard.  They  may  be  dipped 
into  beaten  egg  and  cornmeal  or  flour  before  frying. 

Southern  Cornbread — One  and  one-half  cups  of  white  corn- 
meal,  half  a  cup  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  two 
teaspoonfuls  lard,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk  and  two  eggs. 
Sift  the  flour,  cornmeal,  sugar,  salt  and  baking-powder;  rub  in 
the  lard  cold,  add  the  eggs,  well-beaten,  and  then  the  milk.  Mix 
into  a  moderately  stiff  batter;  pour  it  into  well-greased,  shallow 
baking-pans  (pie  tins  are  suitable).  Bake  from  thirty  to  forty 
minutes. 

Velvet  Sponge  Cake — Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour, 
four  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  three-quarters  of  a 
cup  of  hot  water,  grated  rind  of  lemon.  Stir  together  until  creamy, 
the  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs;  add  the  flour  and  baking 
powder.    Then  add  the  hot  water;    stir  well  until  smooth  and  not 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  419 

lumpy.  Next  add  the  well-beaten  whites.  Do  not  have  them  cur- 
dled, but  stiff.  Flavor.  The  batter  may  seem  too  thin,  but  will 
prove  all  right,  and  you  may  bake  it  as  you  would  any  other 
sponge  cake. 

Brunswick  Stew — Cut  a  four-pound  chicken  into  pieces,  as  for 
a  fricassee.  Put  it  in  a  large  covered  saucepan  with  a  small  onion, 
sliced,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  in  one  piece  (a  ham 
bone  is  better  than  the  bacon).  Cover  with  boiling  water  and 
simmer  gently  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Then  add  one  pint  of 
very  tender  Lima  beans,  one  pint  of  corn,  cut  from  the  cob,  one 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt 
(this  seasons  the  vegetables)  and  one  quarter  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per. Cover  again  and  simmer  one  hour  longer.  Remove  the  lump 
of  bacon  and  serve.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  scorch  this  stew. 
Keep  it  over  a  very  moderate  fire,  and  stir  frequently  from  the 
bottom  of  the  saucepan. 

Peach  Cobbler — Line  a  two-quart  pudding  dish  with  a  thick 
crust.  Peel  and  cut  into  quarters  peaches  enough  to  fill  the  dish, 
heaping  them.  Cover  with  a  teacupful  of  sugar,  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  ground  cinnamon  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Cover  the 
dish  with  a  thick,  rich  pie  crust,  put  the  dish  in  the  oven,  and 
bake  very  slowly  until  the  crust  is  a  rich  dark  brown.  When 
it  is  baked  take  a  silver  spoon  and  break  the  top  crust  into  pieces, 
letting  some  of  them  mix  with  the  fruit.  This  "pie"  may  be  served 
either  hot  or  cold,  but  it  is  better  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Rozelle  Purnell  Handy. 

No.  46  Bellevue  Place,  Chicago. 


THURSDAY,   SEPTEMBER  THE  NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fricassee  of  brains. 
Fried  potatoes.  Green  corn. 

Griddle  cakes. 
Bread.  Tea  or  coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Sliced  cold  meat. 
Sliced  tomatoes. 
Tea,  hot  or  iced. 


DINNER. 

Green  pea  soup. 

Roast  lamb.  Mint  sauce. 

Stuffed  tomatoes.  New  potatoes,  roasted. 

Lima  beans. 

Fruit. 


420  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Green  Corn  Griddle  Cakes — Run  a  knife  through  the  center 
of  the  grains,  then  with  the  knife  scrape  out  all  you  can.  (If  you 
have  a  corn  grater  so  much  the  better.)  To  twelve  ears  add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter  (no  flour).  Beat  the  whites  very  light,  add  one  or 
two  more  whites  if  you  have  them;  grease  the  griddle  with  butter; 
mix  a  little  of  the  white  with  the  batter  each  time  you  fill  the 
griddle;  drop  on  in  small  cakes — large  ones  will  not  turn.  When 
they  look  dry  around  the  edge  turn  with  a  broad  knife.  They  are 
very  delicate.  Mrs.  A.   M.  Finley. 

No.  524  West  Fourth  Street,  Ottumwa,  la. 


FRIDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  TENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 

Baked  eggs.  Bacon. 

Muffins.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 
Chicken  croquettes. 
Cream   potatoes.  Walnut  salad. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Broiled  bluefish,  Beurre  noir  sauce. 

Creamed  peas  in  shell.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Fruit  cream.  Coffee. 


Broiled  Bluefish — Butter  well  the  broiler  before  laying  in  the 
fish.  Put  the  inside  of  the  fish  next  to  the  fire  first,  then  turn. 
When  nicely  browned  turn  on  a  buttered  tin  sheet.  Put  in  the 
oven  for  a  few  minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the  fish.  A 
bluefish  weighing  four  pounds  will  take  from  twenty  minutes  to 
half  an  hour  to  cook.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  lemon 
and  pour  over  the  fish  the  following  sauce: 

Beurre  Noir — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  of  vinegar, 
one  of  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Put 
the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  very  hot,  add  the  parsley 
and  other  ingredients.    Boil  up  once  and  pour  over  the  fish. 

Fruit  Cream — One  cup  of  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
ane  one-quarter  of  a  box  of  Coxe's  gelatine.  Dissolve  the  gela- 
tine in  boiling  water  and  cool.  Whip  the  cream  until  thick,  add 
the  sugar,  beat  again;  add  the  gelatine  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Add  two  sliced  bananas  or  other  fruit  if  preferred,  and  put  into  a 
mold  to  cool.  Mrs.  C.  C.  Carothers. 

Mount  Pleasant,  Iowa. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.       421 

SATURDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  ELEVENTH. 

BREAKFAST. 

Bartlett  pears. 

White  Indian  meal  mush,  sugar  and  cream. 

Creamed  chicken  and  potatoes. 

Sliced  whole-wheat  bread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Curry  of  eggs.  Boiled  rice. 

Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Jumbles. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  celery  soup. 

Broiled  beef  tenderloin,  with  Mexican  sauce. 

Sweet  and  Irish  potatoes  saute. 

Corn  fritters. 

Peach  snowballs.        Coffee. 


Bartlett  Pears— Wash  and  wipe  dry,  serve. 

Creamed  Chicken  and  Potatoes — Take  pieces  of  chicken  left 
from  yesterday's  dinner  and  cut  into  dice,  making  a  coffeecupful; 
one  coffeecup  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  dice,  one-half  cup  of 
celery  cut  into  small  pieces.  Put  celery  to  boil  in  just  enough 
water  to  cover.  Make  pint  of  cream  sauce  by  taking  two  table- 
spoonfuls  butter,  two  ditto  flour  melted  together,  add  one  pint 
of  hot  stock  or  milk,  and  stir  until  smooth,  add  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Season  the 
celery,  chicken  and  potatoes  with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  add  to  the  hot  sauce, 
also  one  well-beaten  egg  just  before  serving.  Pour  over  slices  of 
hot  buttered  toast  and  serve. 

Curry  of  Eggs — Boil  six  eggs  thirty  minutes;  when  cold,  peel 
and  cut  into  quarters;  make  a  sauce  by  frying  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  sliced  onion  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  take  the 
onion  out  and  to  butter  add  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  half  ditto  of  curry  powder,  one  and  one-half  cups  white 
stock  or  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  three  dashes  of- 
pepper;  add  eggs  and  onion;  put  in  oval  dish  and  cover  with  but- 
tered bread  crumbs;   bake  a  light  brown. 

Boiled  Rice — Wash  one  heaping  cup  of  rice  thoroughly,  throw 
it  into  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  with  half-teaspoonful  salt  and 
let  boil  hard  for  twenty  minutes,  draw  to  back  of  stove  and  let 
the  rice  dry  off:     Do  not  stir  while  cooking. 

Jumbles — Cream  together  one  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of 


422  THE    CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

sugar,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  three  well-beaten 
eggs,  add  grated  half  of  lemon  and  half-teaspoonful  cinnamon 
and  nutmeg  mixed.  Mix  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder  with  three  cups  of  flour,  and  beat  well  with  the  other 
ingredients;  add  two  cups  of  flour  to  roll  out,  roll  half  an  inch 
thick,  cut  in  strips,  roll  in  coarse  granulated  sugar  and  fold  to 
form  a  circle;  bake  a  delicate  brown.     Enough  for  several  meals. 

Broiled  Beef  Tenderloin — One  pound  and  a  half  tenderloin 
steak,  cut  into  inch-thick  slices,  broil  over  a  brisk  fire  a  few 
moments,  or  until  the  juice  begins  to  run;  have  ready  a  pint  of 
Mexican  sauce,  pour  over  the  steak  and  serve  at  once. 

Mexican  Sauce--.Cut  a  good-sized  onion  into  thin  slices;  fry 
a  delicate  brown  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter;  then  add 
two  large  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced  thin,  one  red  pepper  and 
one  green  pepper  chopped  fine;  leave  the  seeds  in;  let  simmer 
until  tender;  then  add  a  clove  of  garlic  cut  fine,  half-teaspoon  of 
celery  salt,  quarter-teaspoon  black  pepper  and  one  teaspoon  of 
Worcestershire  sauce. 

Sweet  and  Irish  Potatoes  Saute — Cut  into  inch  pieces  enough 
cold  baked  or  boiled  sweet  potatoes  to  make  one  pint;  ditto 
Irish  potatoes;  season  with  half-teaspoonful  salt,  quarter-tea- 
spoonful  pepper  and  fry  all  together  in  a  skillet  containing  a  gen- 
erous quantity  of  very  hot  beef  dripping  and  butter.  Fry  a  deli- 
cate brown. 

Corn  Fritters — To  one  pint  of  corn  pulp  add  two  well-beaten 
eggs,  one-quarter  cup  milk,  half- teaspoon  salt,  ditto  pepper;  fry 
in  thin  cakes  on  hot  buttered  griddle. 

Peach  Snowballs — Select  twelve  ripe,  good-sized  freestone 
peaches;  pare  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar;  stick  a  small  silver 
berry  fork  in  each  one;  then  dip  into  soft  icing,  being  careful 
to  cover  the  peach  entirely;  let  dry  a  few  minutes,  then  roll  in 
freshly  grated  cocoanut.  A  pretty  effect  is  obtained  by  coloring 
the  icing  a  soft  pink.    Canned  peaches  may  be  used  in  winter. 

Station  A,  Chicago.  Mrs.  Z.  Lowell. 


SUNDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  TWELFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Iced  nutmeg  melons. 

White  Indian  meal  mush — sugar  and  cream. 

Delicate  omelette. 

Buttered  toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Lobster  a  la  Nev/berg. 
Hot  rolls 
Warm  gingerbread.  Apple  sauce. 

Iced  tea. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  423 

DINNER. 

Lobster  soup. 
Steamed  fowl.  Celery  sauce. 

Rice  potatoes.  Corn  fritters. 

Frozen  peaches.  Maccaroons. 

Coffee. 


Delicate  Omelette — This  is  best  made  in  a  chafing  dish  at  the 
table.  Take  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  chopped  pars- 
ley. Heat  together  in  the  chafing  dish.  Then  add  five  well- 
beaten  eggs,  mixed  with  a  scant  teacup  of  milk,  a  saltspoon  of 
salt,  and  half  as  much  pepper.  Stir  slowly  from  the  bottom  of 
the  tin  until  it  is  of  a  smooth,  fine  consistency.  This  is  delicious 
and  much  more  delicate  than  scrambled  eggs. 

Coffee — Allow  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  coffee  for  each  per- 
son. Have  the  water  boiling  and  the  coffee  pot  hot.  Grind  the 
coffee  fresh  every  morning.  When  convenient,  it  is  better  to 
make  it  at  the  breakfast  table,  using  a  Marion  Harland  or  a 
French  coffee  pot. 

Lobster  a  la  Newberg — Take  the  meat  of  a  large  lobster,  one 
weighing  nearly  two  pounds;  cut  in  small  slices,  and  put  into  a 
chafing  dish  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  saltspoon  of  salt 
and  half  a  saltspoon  of  red  pepper.  Add  one-half  pint  of  milk. 
Let  boil  ten  minutes,  then  add  three  well-beaten  eggs  and  a  gill 
of  rich  cream.    Let  all  come  to  a  boil  and  serve  immediately. 

Warm  Gingerbread — One  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  soda, 
one  tablespoonful  ginger,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  third  cup 
of  butter,  softened,  one  cup  of  milk  and  three  cups  pastry  flour. 
Mix  in  the  order  given  and  bake  in  small  gem  pans  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  thirty  minutes. 

Apple  Sauce — Pare,  core  and  quarter  eight  apples.  Put  on  to 
cook  with  one-half  teacup  of  cold  water,  and  five  thin  slices  of 
lemon.  Cover  as  closely  as  possible  and  let  steam  ten  minutes 
or  till  they  all  are  white  and  light  looking.  Add  one  cup  of  sugar 
and  let  them  steam  five  minutes  longer.  Do  not  stir  them  at  all. 
Put  into  a  glass  dish  and  serve  warm. 

Iced  Tea — Allow  one  teaspoonful  of  tea  for  each  person.  Add 
cold  water  (a  cupful  for  each  teaspoonful  of  tea)  and  let  stand 
four  hours.  Strain  and  serve  in  tail  glasses  with  a  slice  of  lemon 
and  ice  and  loaf  sugar  to  suit  the  taste  of  each  person. 

Lobster  Soup — Take  all  the  shells  and  remains  of  the  lobster 
left  from  lunch  and  put  on  to  boil  in  one  quart  of  cold  water.  Let 
boil  twenty  minutes;  strain,  add  one  pint  of  milk  thickened  with 
two  tablespoons  of  fiour,  and  seasoned  with  one  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, one  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  two  shakes  of 
red  pepper.    Let  all  boil  up  and  serve  immediately. 

A  half  cupful  of  fine  cracker  crumbs  is  considered  an  addi- 
tion by  many. 

Steamed  Fowl,  with  Celery  Sauce — Select  a  good  plump  fowl 


424  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

weighing  three  or  more  pounds.  Those  with  soft  yellow  feet, 
white  flesh  and  not  too  much  fat  on  the  back.  Singe  over  a  roll 
of  lighted  paper.  Cut  off  the  head  and  slip  back  the  skin  of  the 
neck  and  cut  the  neck  off  close  to  the  opening  in  the  body.  Don't 
cut  an  opening  in  the  breast,  as  it  only  has  to  be  sewed  up  again 
and  does  not  look  well  when  cooked.  Draw  the  windpipe  and 
the  crop  through  the  neck  and  stuff  the  breast  full  and  round 
through  the  opening  in  the  neck.  Draw  the  skin  over  to  the  back 
and  either  sew  or  skewer  in  place.  Make  an  incision  over  the 
vent  and  draw  the  contents  out  as  gently  as  possible  so  as  not  to 
break  the  gall  bladder.  Save  the  gizzard,  liver  and  heart,  and 
thoroughly  wash  the  inside,  v/ipe  dry  and  stuff,  sewing  up  the 
incision  firmly  and  tying  the  drumsticks  down,  so  that  they  will 
stay  in  place  during  the  cooking. 

Make  a  stufling  by  chopping  one  small  head  of  celery,  one 
large  onion,  three  cups  of  dry  bread  crumbs,  and  one  tablespoon 
of  parsley.  Season  with  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  half  teaspoon  of 
white  pepper,  three  shakes  of  red  pepper,  one  egg  well  beaten,  and 
a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg.  Have  all  fine  and  smooth, 
and  it  will  taste  like  a  force  meat.  Steam  two  hours  or  more 
if  not  tender.  Do  not  have  more  than  three  pints  of  water  in  the 
lower  kettle,  and  let  it  boil  dovm  at  the  last  to  about  one  quart. 

Sauce  for  Fowl — Tv/o  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  heaping 
tablespoons  of  flour,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  a  teaspoon  pepper, 
dash  of  red  pepper  and  one  pint  of  the  water  the  chicken  was 
steamed  over,  which  will  be  a  very  rich  and  strong  broth.  Melt 
the  butter,  add  flour  and  seasoning,  then  gradually  the  hot  stock. 
Have  ready  a  pint  of  celery  that  has  been  chopped  fine  and  boiled 
in  a  very  little  water  (just  enough  to  keep  it  from  burning)  until 
tender;  add  this  to  the  sauce  and  pour  over  the  fowl  before  send- 
ing to  the  table.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley.  This  is  one  of 
the  best  ways  of  serving  a  fowl. 

Frozen  Peaches — One  quart  of  pared  and  cut  up  peaches,  one 
quart  of  water,  one  pint  of  sugar.  ¥/hen  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
freeze.  This  is  delicious  and  is  a  pleasant  change  from  the  usual 
creams  and  sherbets. 

Ten  cents  worth  of  maccaroons  will  be  sufficient  for  five  peo- 
ple and  are  very  nice  with  frozen  peaches. 

Mrs.  L.  White. 

Station  A,  Chicago. 


MONDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  THIRTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sugared  peaches. 

Apple  omelet.  Rye  puffs. 

Coffee, 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  42b 

LUNCHEON. 

Sweet  potato  puiZs. 

Swiss  eggs.  Chicago  rolls. 

Small  almond  cakes. 

Cocoa,  hot  or  iced. 


DINNER. 

Corn   chov/der. 

Breaded  lamb  chops.  Cucumber  salad. 

Steamed  potatoes. 

Eggplant  baked  in  bread  crumbs. 

CantalouToe.        Coffee. 


Apple  Omelet — Beat  separately  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  and 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the  Yv'-hites.  Cut  tho 
whites  into  the  yolks;  sift  in  tv/o  tablespoonfuls  of  pov/dered 
sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  ice  water;  turn  into  a  larded  frying 
pan,  and  when  it  thickens  spread  quickly  with  apple  sauce,  sv/eet- 
ened  to  the  taste.  Fold  the  omelet,  turn  it  upon  the  platter  and 
serve  hot. 

Rj'^e  Puffs — Beat  together  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  one 
egg;  add  one  cupful  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  rye  liour,  half  a  cupful 
of  wheat  fiour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  added  to  the 
flour  before  mixing;  beat  hard  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Swiss  Eggs— Six  eggs,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  cheese,  one- 
third  of  a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one- 
tenth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cayemie.  Cut  the  cheese  into  thin  shav- 
ings; butter  an  egg  dish  or  a  grating  dish  (if  you  have  neither, 
use  a  small  stone  china  platter)  and  spread  the  cheese  in  it.  Upon 
the  cheese  distribute  in  small  portions  the  remainder  of  the  but 
ter;  mix  salt,  cayenne,  mustard  and  cream;  pour  half  the  mixture 
over  the  cheese;  break  the  eggs  into  the  dish,  and  after  pouring- 
over  them  the  remaining  liquid  place  in  oven.    Bake  eight  minutes. 

Sv/eet  Potato  Puffs — Steam  six  sweet  potatoes  and  mash  fine; 
3"fld  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one 
large  saltspoonful  of  salt;  beat  very  light.  Grease  custard  cups, 
fill  nearly  full,  brush  tops  with  white  of  an  egg  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven;   serve  hot. 

Chicago  Rolls — One  pound  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  egg, 
one  ounce  of  butter,  tv/o  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast,  one  saltspoonful 
of  salt;  heat  the  milk,  add  the  butter  and  salt.  When  lukewarm 
beat  all  together  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  not  less  than 
three  hours  before  v/anted.  Y/hen  risen  form  into  rolls  v/ith  as 
little  handling  as  possible;  let  stand  half  an  hour  (or  until  light). 
Bake  on  tins. 

Small  Almond  Cakes — Chop  half  a  pound  of  citron  and  mix 
with  it  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  shelled  almonds,  which  have 
been  blanched  and  sliced  into  halves.     Beat  six  eggs  thoroughly 


426  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

and  cream  into  them  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Add 
the  nuts  and  citron,  and,  after  thoroughly  mixing,  sift  gradually 
into  the  mixture  half  a  pound  of  flour  and  one  spoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Pour  the  batter  into  long,  shallow  tins,  which  have 
been  well  buttered.  When  done  roll  in  powdered  almonds  and 
sugar.  Packed  carefully  in  tin,  these  cakes  will  keep  almost  in- 
definitely. 

Corn  Chowder — Remove  the  husks  and  silk  from  six  large  ears 
of  corn,  scrape  down  through  the  middle  of  the  rows  of  grain  and 
scrape  out  the  interior  with  the  back  of  a  knife.  Peel  and  slice 
one  onion;  add  one  pint  of  potatoes  sliced,  and  cut  in  dice  a  quar- 
ter-pound of  salt  pork.  Pry  pork  and  onions  in  a  sauce-pan;  take 
them  out  with  a  skimmer,  and  put  the  other  ingredients  into  the 
drippings  in  layers,  seasoning  them  palatably  with  about  one 
saltspoonful  of  salt  and  three  dashes  of  pepper.  Midway  put  in 
the  pork  and  onions;  then  the  rest  of  the  vegetables  and  another 
saltspoonful  of  salt  and  three  dashes  of  pepper  and  hot  water 
enough  to  stand  an  inch  above  them;  cover  the  'sauce-pan  and 
cook  the  chowder  gently  for  half  an  hour  after  it  begins  to  boil. 
Just  before  the  chowder  is  done  scald  one  pint  of  milk  and  pour 
it  over  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  milk  or  Boston  crackers,  laid 
in  a  soup  tureen.  Cover  the  tureen  for  five  minutes;  then  see 
that  the  chowder  is  properly  seasoned;  pour  it  into  the  tureen, 
and  serve  it  with  a  plate  of  crackers. 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops — One  pound  and  a  half  of  lamb  chops, 
two  eggs,  beaten.  Dip  in  chops,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Pry  in  hot  fat.  Cook  five  tomatoes  in  a 
little  water  (about  half  a  pint),  strain  and  season  with  one  large 
saltspoon  of  salt,  and  four  dashes  of  pepper.  Put  the  chops  on  a 
platter  and  pour  over  the  dressing.    This  is  delicious. 

Cucumber  Salad — Cut  the  cucumbers  in  thin  slices  and  soak  in 
cold  water  for  one  hour;  two  good  sized  ones  will  do.  Cut  some 
cold,  well  salted  potatoes  in  thin  slices,  using  about  half  the  quan- 
tity of  potatoes  that  you  use  cucumbers.  Mix  them  together  and 
pour  over  the  following  dressing: 

Prench  Dressing — One-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  salt- 
spoon  of  pepper,  three  tablespoonfuls  oil,  one-fourth  teaspoonful 
onion  juice,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Mix  in  order  given, 
adding  oil  slowly. 

Eggplant  Baked  in  Bread  Crumbs — This  recipe  requires  one 
young  and  tender  eggplant,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar;  season  with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  three  dashes  of  pepper;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  if  you 
can  spare  it,  if  not,  one  will  do;  two  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  and  two 
onions  grated.  Peel  the  eggplant  and  cut  it  in  inch  dice.  Put  it 
into  the  sauce-pan  with  one  gill  of  boiling  water.  Simmer  very 
gently  until  tender,  but  not  entirely  done,  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 
Then  throw  it  into  a  colander  and  drain  as  dry  as  possible,  squeez- 
ing out  the  water  with  a  saucer.  Meanwhile,  fry  the  onions  in 
butter.  When  the  eggplant  is  thoroughly  drained,  remove  the 
sauce-pan  and  onions  from  the  fire  and  stir  the  eggplant,  pars- 


THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  427 

ley,  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar  and  butter.  If  the  eggplant  has 
been  properly  dried  it  will  absorb  the  butter  entirely.  Put  in  a 
baking  dish,  cover  the  top  with  browned  bread  crumbs  and  dots 
of  butter,  and  bake  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  good 
oven.  There  should  be  nearly  one  quart  of  the  stewed  eggplant 
for  the  above  preparations,  therefore,  if  you  have  not  one  large 
one,  use  two  small  ones.    This  is  worth  trying. 

Elizabeth  C.  M.  Smith. 
No.  528  North  Division  Street,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 


TUESDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  FOURTEENTH, 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  pears. 

Baked  hash.  Cornmeal  puffs. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Bouillon.  Wafers. 

Banana  sandwiches.  Marshmallow  cakes. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Onion  soup. 

Beefettes.  Baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Green  beans  on  toast. 

Peach  trifle.  Coffee. 


Stewed  Pears — Peel  and  cut  them  in  halves,  leaving  the  stems 
on,  and  scoop  out  the  cores.  Put  them  into  a  sauce-pan,  placing 
them  close  together,  with  the  stem  ends  uppermost.  Pour  over  a 
large  cup  of  water,  a  small  cup  of  sugar,  five  whole  cloves,  a 
stick  of  cinnamon,  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice;  cover  closely, 
stew  gently  till  the  pears  are  tender,  then  take  out  carefully  and 
place  on  a  dish  for  serving.  Boil  down  the  sirup  until  quite  thick, 
strain  and  pour  over  the  pears. 

Baked  Hash — One  pint  of  cold  cooked  beef,  chopped  fine,  one 
pint  of  chopped  raw  potatoes,  one-half  pint  of  gravy  or  wafer, 
one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Mix  all  well  together,  turn 
into  a  mold,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour. 

Cornmeal  Puffs — Sift  together  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
cornmeal,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  one-quarter  of  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  add  to  them  one  cupful  of  milk  or  cream,  and  stir  into 
the  dry  mixture.    Beat  well  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the 


428  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK    BOOK. 

eggs,  hastily  stir  in  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  bake 
in  gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven. 

Banana  Sandwiches — Banana  sandwiches  are  new  and  very 
nice.  Take  bread  at  least  two  days  old,  cut  off  the  crust,  and  but- 
ter the  end  of  the  loaf;  shave  off  a  slice  one-eighth  of  an  inch  in 
thickness,  spread  with  plain  mayonnaise  salad  dressing,  and 
add  thin  slices  of  bananas.  Cover  with  another  slice  of  bread. 
Pile  on  a  plate  on  which  a  doily  has  been  placed. 

Marshmallow  Cakes — When  making  cookies  roll  out  some  of 
the  dough  thin  and  cut  with  a  diamond-shaped  cutter  in  size 
about  four  inches  between  its  long  opposite  points.  Place  a 
marshmallow  in  the  center  and  fold  the  two  opposite  long  points 
over  it  and  press  them  together.  In  baking,  the  marshmallow  will 
swell  and  round  the  joined  dough,  which  will  be  left  like  the 
handle  of  a  tiny  flat  basket  when  the  cooling  marshmallow  con- 
tracts. 

Beefettes — Purchase  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  round  steak 
cut  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Then  cut  in  pieces  about  six  inches 
long  and  four  wide.  Place  on  each  piece  a  large  tablespoonful 
of  dressing  made  of  one  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  chopped  parsley,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion 
(browned),  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  good  dashes  of 
pepper.  Roll  up  the  beefettes  and  fasten  with  w^ooden  toothpicks. 
Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  cup  of  water  in  a  baking  pan 
with  the  beefettes,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  hot 
oven.  Baste  often,  and  when  done  thicken  the  gravy,  strain  and 
pour  over  the  meat  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

Green  Beans  on  Toast — String  one  quart  of  fresh,  tender 
beans,  put  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  add  a  pinch 
of  baking  soda,  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  off  the  water.  Re- 
turn them  to  the  fire,  with  hot  water  to  cover,  a  large  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Toast  six  squares  of  bread, 
and  when  the  beans  are  tender  dip  each  slice  in  hot  water;  but- 
ter and  arrange  on  a  platter.  Remove  the  beans  with  a  skimmer 
and  lay  evenly  on  the  toast.  To  the  water  left  in  the  kettle  add  a 
cup  of  rich  milk,  and  when  it  boils  stir  in  a  small  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk  and  stir  until  done; 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  when  melted  pour  over  the 
beans  and  serve  at  once.    The  beans  are  left  full  length. 

Peach  Trifle — Make  a  boiled  custard  with  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  one  pint  of  milk  and  tw^o  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  When 
cool  flavor  with  a  small  quarter  teaspoonful  each  of  almond  and 
vanilla  flavor  and  set  on  ice.  Cut  stale  sponge  cake  in  slices,  lay 
it  in  the  bottom  of  a  pretty  dish  and  cover  with  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  the  custard.  Peel  and  slice  six  large,  ripe  peaches,  spread  them 
over -the  cake,  dust  thickly  with  powdered  sugar.  Pour  over  this 
the  custard  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  by  whipping  the 
whites  of  eggs  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and 
four  drops  of  almond  flavoring  to  a  very  stiff  consistency. 

Mrs.  Charles  Adams. 

No.  25  Union  Street,  Hornellsville,  N.  Y. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  429 

WEDNESDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  FIFTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Peaches  cream  and  sugar. 

Spanish  omelet.  Indian  waflEles. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Turbot.  Stuffed  potatoes. 

Banana  custard.      Vanilla  wafers. 

Iced  water  with  currant  shrub. 


DINNER. 

Noodle  soup. 

Boiled  mutton,  with  caper  sauce. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Filled  peppers. 

Tomato  salad. 

Bread  pudding  with  sauce. 

Coffee. 


Spanish  Omelet — Take  six  fresh  eggs;  beat  the  whites  and 
yolks  separatelj^  then  mix  them  together  in  a  bowl  and  add  six 
teaspoonfuls  of  vv^arm  water  and  sprinkle  in  a  very  scant  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt.  Chop  one  small  onion,  one  green  pepper,  two  small 
potatoes  and  a  sprig  of  parsley  all  together,  very  fine.  Take  the 
omelet  pan,  rub  it  with  a  clove  of  garlic  which  has  been  cut  in 
two  (you  can  omit  the  garlic  if  you  wish),  put  in  the  pan  a  small 
lump  of  butter,,  let  it  get  boiling  hot,  turn  in  the  eggs,  and  when 
the  eggs  begin  to  thicken  put  in  the  chopped  vegetables;  turn 
the  omelet  carefully,  and  when  done  flop  it  over  quickly  onto  a 
hot  platter  and  serve  immediately. 

Indian  Waffles — One  cupful  of  flour,  one  of  white  cornmeal, 
two  of  sour  milk,  half  a  cupful  of  sour  cream,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
tablespoonful  of  cold  water  and  two  eggs.  Mix  the  sugar,  salt, 
meal  and  flour;  beat  the  eggs  until  they  are  very  light;  dissolve 
the  soda  in  the  tablespoonful  of  cold  water  and  stir  it  into  the 
milk  and  cream;  pour  the  liquid  upon  the  dry  mixture,  then  add 
the  beaten  eggs  and  stir  well;  have  the  waffle  irons  very  hot, 
grease  them  lightly,  pour  a  thin  layer  of  the  batter  into  one-half 
of  the  iron,  drop  the  other  half  gently  upon  the  flrst  one  and 
turn  the  iron  over.  Cook  until  the  waffle  is  brown  on  both  sides — 
two  minutes — and  serve  immediately  while  hot. 

Turbot — One  pint  of  steamed  whitefish;  take  out  the  bones 
and  sprinkle  with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  take  one  pint  of 
new  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-eighth  pound  of 
i^our,  one  sprig  of  parsley  and  summer  savory  and  three  slices 
of  onion;  stir  together  one-quarter  pound  of  butter  and  one  egg 


430  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

well  beaten;  put  all  this  with  milk  on  the  stove  and  stir  until  it 
creams;  then  put  it  through  a  sieve;  now  take  a  baking  dish  and 
put  into  it  a  layer  of  fish,  then  one  of  the  sauce,  and  alternate  fish 
and  sauce  until  the  dish  is  full;  sprinkle  the  top  thickly  with  fine 
bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  the  oven  half  an  hour.    To  be  eaten  hot. 

Banana  Custard— Beat  well  together  three  eggs  and  half  a 
cupful  of  sugar,  add  two  teacupfuls  of  milk,  the  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon  and  the  mashed  pulp  of  banana  until  thickened  like  a  thin 
batter,  sprinkle  the  top  with  sugar  and  bake  to  a  light  brown. 
When' cool  cover  the  top  with  a*  meringue,  made  with  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  return 
to  the  oven  and  brown.    Serve  cold. 

Filled  Peppers — Take  as  many  large  peppers  as  you  need, 
either  green  or  red  and  as  round  as  you  can  get  them,  cut  off  the 
tops,  take  out  the  seeds,  pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  cook 
gently  for  five  minutes;  drain  thoroughly,  then  put  in  a  baking 
dish  and  fill  them — without  pressing  it  down — with  following 
mixture:  Take  enough  of  the  white  meat  of  a  chicken  or  of  veal 
to  fill  a  cup  when  chopped  fine,  mix  with  it  one  and  a  half  cup- 
fuls  of  bread  crumbs,  that  have  been  moistened  with  a  little  hot 
water  to  swell  them,  also  one  large,  firm  tomato  (peeled)  and 
two  slices  of  onions  chopped  very  fine,  an  ounce  of  butter,  a  level 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  half  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  dash  of  red  pepper  and  a  raw  egg  well  beaten;  pour  a  little 
stock  around  the  peppers  and  a  very  little  over  each  one.  Bake 
twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Bread  Pudding — Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  until  light  and 
add  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon;  mix  a  quart  of  new  milk  with 
a  pint  of  fine  bread  crumbs  and  add  the  yolks  and  sugar  (two 
tablespoonfuls),  turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  solid,  but  not  watery.  Cover  with  a  mer- 
ingue made  from  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar;    return  to  oven  and  brown. 

Sauce — Half  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg  and 
one  teaspoonful  vanilla;  beat  half  an  hour.  Just  before  using 
stir  into  it  quickly  two  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water.  A  most  deli- 
cious sauce.  Ellen  L.  Stone. 

No.  613  North  Seventh  Street,  Burlington,  Iowa. 


THURSDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  SIXTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  pears. 

Beef  cake.  Hot  oatmeal  muffins. 

Potato  rissoles.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Scalloped  oysters. 

Cabbage  salad.  Bread  and  butter. 

Damson  tart.  Cocoa. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  431 

DINNER. 

English  chicken  pie.  Scalloped  tomatoes. 

Stewed  celery.  Tea  cakes. 

Lemon  sponge.  Tea. 


English  Beef  Cake — Any  cold  roast  meat  left  from  previous 
day;  to  one  pound  of  meat  allow  one-quarter  pound  bacon  or 
ham,  two  dashes  of  pepper,  one  good-sized  onion,  one  stalk  of 
celery,  sprig  of  parsley,  two  eggs.  Mince  beef  very  fine  (if  under- 
done it  will  be  better);  add  to  it  the  bacon  or  ham,  which  must 
also  be  chopped  very  small;  mix  well  together;  season;  now 
mince  onion,  celery,  parsley  or  any  herbs  you  prefer;  add  this, 
beat  up  eggs,  pour  into  the  other  ingredients,  form  into  small 
square  cakes  about  half  an  inch  thick,  fry  in  hot  drippings  and 
serve  hot. 

Hot  Oatmeal  Mufiins — Three  cups  of  oatmeal,  three  cups  of 
flour,  small  half-cup  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  small 
half -cup  of  sugar;  pour  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  boiling  water 
on  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  and  mix  all  together  im- 
mediately. Cut  out  one-half  inch  thick;  bake  in  hot  oven  twen- 
ty minutes. 

Potato  Rissoles — Take  five  good-sized  potatoes;  after  boiling 
until  soft,  mash  well,  add  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful salt,  two  or  three  dashes  of  pepper,  and,  when  liked, 
a  little  minced  parsley.  Beat  up  two  eggs,  roll  the  potatoes  into 
small  balls,  cover  with  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  hot  lard 
until  pale  brown;  let  drain  before  fire,  dish  up  on  napkin  and 
serve. 

Scalloped  Oysters — One  pint  oysters;  grease  a  baking  dish, 
put  in  layer  of  oysters,  and  between  each  layer  sprinkle  over  a 
large  handful  of  bread  crumbs,  dash  or  two  of  pepper  and  salt 
and  little  daubs  of  butter;  continue  so  till  oysters  are  all  used; 
have  bread  crumbs  on  top;    bake  one-half  hour;    serve  hot. 

Damson  Tart — One  and  one-half  pints  damsons,  one-quarter 
pound  brown  sugar.  Put  damsons  with  sugar  between  them  into 
a  deep  earthenware  dish,  place  in  middle  a  small  cup  turned  up- 
side down  (this  prevents  juice  from  spilling),  line  edges  of  dish 
with  pie-crust,  then  cover  dish  with  same;  ornament  edges  and 
bake  one-half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  good  oven.  Serve 
hot  at  table,  with  cream.  (This  is  English  style,  and  there  will 
be  found  an  abundance  of  fruit  to  each  portion  of  crust.) 

English  Chicken  Pie — One  large  fowl.  Skin  and  cut  up  into 
joints,  put  neck,  leg  and  backbone  in  a  stewpan,  with  a  pint  or 
so  of  water  and  an  onion;  add  a  salfspoonful  of  salt  and  let 
these  stew  for  about  an  hour;  strain  off  liquor  (this  is  for  gravy). 
Have  ready  three  slices  of  bacon  and  three  hard-boiled  eggs. 
Put  a  layer  of  fowl  at  the  bottom  of  a  deep  baking  dish,  then 
slice  of  bacon,  one  of  the  eggs  cut  in  rings,  and  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  pepper.  Proceed  in  this  way  till  dish  is  full;  use  in  all  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  and  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  pepper.     Pour  in 


432  THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK    BOOK. 

about  one-half  pint  water,  border  edge  of  dish  with  ordinary  pie- 
crust, cover  dish  over  with  same,  ornament  top  and  glaze  with 
beaten  yolk  of  an,  egg.  Bake  from  one  and  one-quarter  to  one 
and  one-half  hours  and  when  done  pour  in  at  the  top  the  gravy 
made  from  the  bones.     (Can  be  served  hot  or  cold.) 

Stewed  Celery — Wash  four  heads  of  celery;  remove  the  outer 
green  stalks;  boil  in  slightly  salted  water  till  tender.  Nov/  take 
a  pint  of  milk;  peel  and  quarter  one  onion;  simmer  it  in  the 
milk  till  perfectly  tender;  strain;  crumble  one-half  pound  bread 
crumbs;  pour  milk  over  crumbs;  add  the  celery,  one  tablespoon- 
butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper;  sim- 
mer for  three  minutes,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 

Tea  Cakes — One  pound  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt, 
one-eighth  pound  butter  or  lard,  one  egg,  a  piece  of  yeast  half 
the  size  of  a  walnut.  Put  flour,  dry,  in  basin;  mix  in  salt;  rub 
in  butter  or  lard;  beat  egg  well;  stir  to  it  the  yeast;  add  these 
to  the  flour,  with  as  much  warm  milk  as  will  make  the  whole  into 
a  smooth  paste;  knead  well;  let  rise  near  fire;  when  well  risen 
form  into  cakes;  place  on  tins  and  let  rise  again  until  spongy 
before  putting  into  oven;  bake  from  one-fourth  to  one-half  hour 
in  moderate  oven.     They  are  very  nice  split  and  toasted. 

Lemon  Sponge — One-half  box  gelatine,  one  and  three-fourths 
pints  water,  three-fourths  pound  sugar,  juice  three  lemons,  rind 
of  one,  the  whites  of  three  eggs.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  the  water; 
strain  into  saucepan;  add  sugar,  lemon  rind  and  juice;  boil  from 
ten  to  fifteen  minutes;  let  stand  till  it  begins  to  stiffen;  then 
beat  Y>rliites  of  the  eggs;  put  them  to  it,  and  whisk  the  mixture 
till  it  is  quite  white.  Put  into  a  mold,  which  has  been  previouGiy 
whetted;  let  it  remain  till  perfectly  set;  then  turn  it  out  and 
decorate  according  to  taste.  Jessie  Comport. 

Kent,  England. 


FRIDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  SEVENTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cantaloupe. 

Dried  beef  frizzled.  Creamed  potatoes. 

Sliced  cucumbers.     Bread  and  butter. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Eggs  poached  on  toast. 

Pie   plant  marmalade. 

Brown  bread.        Bohemian  buchtells. 

Cocoa. 


TIJE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  433 

DINNER. 

Green  corn  soup. 

Weak  fish.        Sliced  tomatoes.        Mashed   potatoes. 

Marguerite  salad. 

Ginger  pears.  ¥/afers. 

Coffee. 


Bohemian  Buchtells — Three  cups  of  milk,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  tv/o  eggs,  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt; 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  one  cent's  worth  compressed  yeast,  in 
just  enough  warm  Y/ater  to  dissolve  it;  fruit,  fresh  or  canned. 
Warm  the  milk  until  you  can  just  bear  the  touch.  Add  sugar, 
butter  melted,  eggs  beaten,  yeast  and  flour  until  thick  enough  to 
roll  out  on  a  moulding  board,  but  use  no  more  than  you  must  in 
order  to  roll  it  out.  Set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  very 
light  turn  onto  a  board,  and  roll  out  until  a  third  of  an  inch 
thick;  .  then  cut  into  four-inch  squares.  In  each  one  of  these 
place  a  small  piece  of  fruit  and  a  sprinkling  of  sugar.  Gather 
the  edges  together,  pressing  them,  so  that  they  do  not  separate, 
and  set  into  a  large  dripping  pan.  Rub  each  one  v/ith  a  little  melt- 
ed butter  and  sprinkle  over  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Let  rise  again 
until  even  with  the  top  of  the  pan,  and  bake.  These  can  be  made 
the  day  before  using;  leave  in  the  pan,  and  a  few  minutes  before 
needed  set  in  a  hot  oven. 

Pie  Plant  Marmalade — One  and  one-half  pounds  of  pie  plant; 
one  pound  sugar,  half  a,n  ounce  bitter  almonds,  blanched  and  cut 
in  halves;  one  lemon  cut  into  small  pieces.  Boil  well  together 
until  quite  thick.    Delicious,  and  will  keep  any  length  of  time. 

To  Prepare  Suet  for  Prying — Take  five  pounds  nice  beef  suet, 
cut  into  small  pieces,  removing  all  the  fibre.  Put  into  a  double 
boiler  to  melt.  Press  it  off  as  fast  as  it  melts  into  the  frying 
kettle,  that  should  be  on  the  back  of  stove.  When  all  the  suet 
is  melted,  add  one  pint  olive  oil.  This  makes  a  good  quantity  to 
start  the  kettle,  and  by  adding  scraps  of  suet  from  steak  occa- 
sionally, and  a  few  spoonfuls  of  oil,  will  last  a  medium-sized  fam- 
ily for  a  year.  Should  be  strained  each  time  it  is  used,  to  keep 
free  from  sediment,  and  to  prevent  its  getting  strong. 

Marguerite  Salad — Cut  five  hard-boiled  eggs  into  slices  about 
an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  Remove  the  yolks  carefully,  so  as 
not  to  break  the  rings.  Place  the  rings  on  a  lettuce  leaf  or  cress 
in  a  circle,  overlapping  each  other.  Beat  the  yolks  thoroughly 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  an  even 
saltspoon  of  salt,  and  a  sprinkling  of  cayenne.  Heap  with  a  tea- 
spoon into  the  center  of  each  ring. 

Ginger  Pears — Six  pounds  of  sugar;  eight  pounds  of  pears, 
peeled  and  quartered;  one  pint  water,  half  pound  preserved  ginger, 
grated  peels  of  three  lemons,  with  juice  of  one.  Boil  from  four 
and  a  half  to  five  hours,  until  clear,  and  dark  as  the  ginger.  Very 
nice  served  with  ice  cream.  When  used  as  a  dessert,  heap  on 
wafers,  and  pour  cream,  whipped  or  plain,  over  them. 


434  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Chili  Sauce — Eight  quarts  tomatoes,  ten  small  cayenne  or 
red  peppers,  two  cups  onions,  three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  salt,  three 
pints  vinegar,  three  teaspoons  cloves  ground,  three  teaspoons  cin- 
namon, four  teaspoons  each  ground  ginger  and  nutmeg.  Chop 
tomatoes,  peppers  and  onions  very  fine.  Boil  all  together  three 
hours.    Bottle  while  hot  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Phebe  B.  Gehr. 

Riverside,  Illinois.    P.  O.  Box  242. 


SATURDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  EIGHTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  pears  with  cream   and   sugar. 

Calves'  liver  fried  in  crumbs. 

Duchess  potatoes.  Hominy  griddle  cakes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  roast  mutton  broiled.  Dressed  celery. 

Graham  bread. 

Lemon  layer-cake.  Apple  cream. 

Cocoa. 

DINNER. 
Canelon  of  beef.  Baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Scalloped  okra  and  tomatoes. 

Plain  cookies.  Peaches  and  cream. 

Coffee. 


Liver  Pried  in  Crumbs — Cut  the  liver  in  slices,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  very  fine  cracker  crumbs. 
Fry  six  minutes  in  boiling  lard. 

Duchess  Potatoes — Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  cubes,  sprin- 
kle well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dip  in  melted  butter,  and 
lightly  in  flour.  Arrange  them  on  a  baking  sheet  and  bake  fif- 
teen minutes  in  a  quick  oven.    Serve  very  hot. 

Cold  Roast  Mutton  Broiled — Cut  the  mutton  in  inch-thick 
slices,  and  score  them;  mix  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mustard  with 
four  of  olive  oil,  two  of  vinegar  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper; 
spread  this  mixture  in  the  incisions  in  the  mutton,  then  broil 
meat  over  a  clear,  hot  fire.  Place  them  on  a  heated  platter, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dot  with  pieces  of  butter.  Serve 
very  hot  with  currant  jelly. 

Apple  Cream — Stew  apples,  leaving  quarters  whole.  Skim 
them  into  a  glass  dish,  and  whip  with  egg-beater  one  cup  of  cream 
and  one  cup  of  sugar;  pour  over  the  apples.    When  cold  serve. 

Scalloped  Okra  and  Tomatoes — Cut  the  okra  in  thin  slices 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  435 

and  pare  and  slice  the  tomatoes,  allowing  one  pint  of  tomatoes  to 
two  of  okra,  and  water  enough  to  cover.  When  they  have  been 
stewing  fifteen  minutes  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Turn 
into  a  deep  dish;  cover  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  dot  with  but- 
ter and  bake  half  an  hour.  Mrs.  John  Buie. 
No.  170  Harding  Avenue,  Chicago. 


SUNDAY,   SEPTEMBER   THE   NINETEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Sweetbreads  in  tomato. 

Graham  biscuits.         Baked  potatoes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Pickled  lambs'  tongues. 

Buttered  bread.  Plum  shortcake. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tapioca  and  milk  soup. 
Roast  duck  and  sweet  potatoes. 
Scalloped  onions.  Hominy  croquettes. 

Coffee  sherbet. 


Sweetbreads  in  Tomato — Procure  one  pound  calf's  sweet- 
breads; remove  all  the  tough  parts;  put  them  in  cold  water  to 
soak  over  night;  wash  in  morning  and  put  them  over  the  fire 
in  cold  water.  As  soon  as  it  boils  pour  it  off,  put  on  more;  let 
them  simmer  half  an  hour;  add  to  the  water  a  tablespoonful  of 
salt  ten  minutes  before  taking  off  the  fire;  drain  and  cool  by  plung- 
ing into  cold  water;  then  drain.  This  process  of  parboiling  makes 
or  mars  the  delicious  flavor  of  the  sweetbreads.  The  thin  mem- 
brane which  covers  each  section  must  be  removed.  Should  these 
pieces  have  a  reddish  tint  they  are  not  cooked  enough,  boil  a  few 
minutes  more.  Slice  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown  in  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter  or  drippings.  Pare  five  medium-sized  tomatoes  and 
cut  into  small  pieces.  When  the  sweetbreads  are  brown  remove 
them  and  cook  the  tomatoes  in  the  butter  in  which  they  were 
fried.  Stir  often  and  let  them  cook  to  pieces.  Season  with  a  half- 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fifth  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  pinch 
of  cloves.  When  they  have  cooked  to  a  smooth  consistency  stir  in 
a  teaspoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Drop  the  sweetbreads  in 
the  tomatoes,  boil  up  once  and  serve. 

Pickled  Lambs'  Tongues — Boil  until  tender  in  salted  water. 


436  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

using  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  two  quarts  of  v^^ater;  then  remove 
the  skin,  place  the  tongues  in  a  jar,  and  pour  over  saliicient  hot 
vinegar  to  cover,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  whole  peppers,  and  three 
whole  cloves,  if  liked;  cover  close  and  they  are  ready  for  use  the 
next  day. 

Plum  Shortcake — One  quart  of  flour,  sifted  dry,  with  tv>^o  large 
teaspoonfuls  of  haking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a 
good  pinch  of  salt.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  sweet 
milk  enough  to  form  a  soft  dough.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  and 
v/hen  partially  cooled  split  open,  spread  liberally  with  butter  and 
cover  with  a  layer  of  plums,  which  have  been  previously  stewed, 
sweetened  and  cooled  (a  quart  of  unstewed  plums  is  needed),  lay- 
ing the  other  half  on  top  and  spreading  in  the  same  manner  with 
the  plums.  This  is  first  cousin  to  strawberry  shortcake  in  point  of 
toothsomeness. 

Tapioca  and  Milk  Soup—Use  half  a  cupful  of  tapioca,  two  cup- 
fuls  of  water,  tv/o  pints  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one 
of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per, one  medium-sized  onion,  two  blades  of  celery  and  a  slight 
grating  of  nutmeg.  Wash  the  tapioca  and  soak  it  for  six  hours  in 
the  two  cupfuls  of  cold  water,  put  it  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook 
an  hour.  Then  put  the  milk  in  another  double  boiler  and  set  it 
on  the  stove  to  heat.  Now  put  the  butter,  tlie  onion  and  the  cel- 
ery, chopped  fine,  into  a  small  frying-pan  and  cook  slowly  for  ten 
minutes;  add  the  flour  and  stir  until  smooth  ard  frothy.  Pour  the 
contents  of  the  pan  into  the  boiler  of  hot  milk;  add  the  salt,  pep- 
per and  nutmeg;  cook  ten  minutes  longer.  Then  strain  the  milk 
mixture  into  the  boiler  containing  the  tapioca  and  cook  all  for 
half  an  hour. 

Roast  Duck — Select  a  two  or  tv/o  and  a  half  pound  bird;  clean 
and  truss  the  duck  and  stuff  with  a  dressing  made  as  follows: 
Take  one  pint  of  stale  bread  (there  must  be  no  hard  pieces)  and 
break  into  very  fine  crumbs;  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  quar- 
ter teaspoonful  of  pepper,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  sum- 
mer savory,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion  (if  liked)  and  one- 
third  cupful  of  butter;  mix  v/ell.  This  gives  a  rich  dressing  that 
will  separate  like  rice  when  served,  and  is  good  with  any  fowl. 
Rub  the  bird  v/ith  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  before  stuffing  it.  Take 
soft  butter  in  the  hand  and  rub  thickly  over  the  fowl,  then  dredge 
rather  thickly  with  flour  so  it  will  be  just  covered.  Putting  the 
butter  and  flour  on  makes  a  paste,  which  keeps  the  juices  confined 
and  also  gives  a  rich  basting.  Place  on  the  meat  rack  in  a 
hot  oven  for  a  few  moments  to  brown  the  flour,  then  add  water 
enough  to  cover  the  pan.  The  water  must  be  renewed  a  little  at 
a  time  when  needed.  Baste  every  fifteen  minutes  with  the  gravy 
in  the  pan,  and  dredge  with  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  flour.  When 
one  side  is  browned,  turn  and  brown  the  other.  This  v*^ill  bake  in 
an  hour  in  a  quick  oven.  Before  sending  to  the  table  squeeze  over 
it  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  orange,  and  serve  up  very  hot  with  its 
own  gravy  about  It.    Eat  with  currant  jelly.    Chop  the  giblets  fine 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  437 

and  stew  slowly  in  as  little  water  as  possible  with  a  tablespoon- 
fiil  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Season  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and 
three  dashes  of  pepper.    Serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 

Select  long,  slender  sweet  potatoes,  peel  and  lay  in  the  roast- 
ing-pan  around  the  duck  a  half  an  hour  before  it  is  done.  The 
gravy  will  flavor  them  nicely. 

Coffee  Sherbet — To  a  pint  of  strong  coffee  add  a  pint  of  double 
cream  and  six  ounces  of  sugar  and  six  drops  of  vanilla  essence. 
Use  a  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  fine  ground  coffee  to  a  half 
pint  of  water.  Put  coffee,  cream,  sugar  and  extract  in  the  freezer 
surrounded  with  salted  ice;  keep  the  sides  free  as  fast  as  the  ice 
begins  to  cling.    When  congealed  serve  in  glasses, 

Janesville,  Wis.  Shirley  de  Forest. 


MONDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  TWENTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Jellied  grapes. 

Stewed  salt  cod.  Broiled  potatoes. 

Oatmeal  gems.  Cocoa. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  boiled  ham.  Corn  oysters. 

Thin  sliced  bread  and  butter. 

Luncheon  biscuit.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Salsify  soup. 

Mutton  haggis.  Bechamel  sauce. 

Baked  Irish  and  sweet  potatoes.      Mashed  turnips. 

Pickled  red  cabbage. 

Swiss  cream.  Coffee. 


Oatmeal  Gems — Soak  two  cups  of  rolled  oats  over  night  in  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  sour  milk;  in  morning  add  half  a  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  cup  of  v/heat 
flour  and  two  eggs;  mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  gem  pans  in  a 
hot  oven  flfteen  minutes. 

Luncheon  Biscuit — Take  one  pound  of  bread  dough  and  mix 
with  it  a  tablespoonful  of  shortening  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar;  roll  into  thin  sheet,  cut  in  two,  spread  on  half  one  cup  of 
currants,  half  a  cup  of  raisins,  half  an  ounce  each  of  lemon  and 
citron  peel,  chopped  flne;  cover  with  other  half,  pass  rolling-pin 
over  a  fev/  times,  cut  into  fancy  shapes,  brush  v/ith  white  of  egg; 
let  stand  half  an  hour.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Salsify  Soup — Scrape  six  roots,  throw  in  water  with  a  tea- 
spoonful of  vinegar  to  keep  from  turning  black;   cut  into  small 


438  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

pieces  and  cook  until  tender  in  a  quart  of  water;  add  one  pint 
of  milk,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-half  of  pepper.    Boil  up  and  serve. 

Mutton  Haggis — Chop  quite  fine  the  uncooked  heart,  tongue 
and  half-liver  of  a  sheep,  mix  with  them  half  their  weight  in 
chopped  bacon,  half -cup  bread  crumbs,  grated  rind  of  a  lemon, 
quarter-teaspoonful  of  pepper  (the  bacon  should  make  them  salt 
enough),  two  well-beaten  eggs;  pack  in  a  buttered  mold,  cover, 
place  in  a  kettle  partly  filled  with  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly 
two  hours.     Serve  with: 

Bechamel  Sauce — Put  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  three 
of  fiour  in  a  sauce-pan,  pour  on  this  three  gills  of  boiling  water; 
tie  together  a  bay  leaf,  sprig  parsley,  one  of  thyme,  put  in  a  sauce- 
pan, with  small  slice  of  carrot,  half  an  onion,  tiny  bit  of  mace, 
eighteen  peppercorns,  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  gravy  or  stock;  simmer  gently  half  an  hour;  strain;  add 
three  gills  cream,  let  it  come  to  boiling  point,  and  serve. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  useful  sauces;  it  may  be  used  with 
fish,  poultry  or  vegetables. 

Pickled  Red  Cabbage — Slice  a  solid  head  of  red  cabbage  in 
thin  strips;  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt;  let  stand  over  night;  in 
the  morning  drain  and  cover  with  boiling  vinegar,  to  which  add 
a  dozen  cloves  and  twice  as  many  peppercorns.  This  will  make 
two  quarts. 

Swiss  Cream — Lay  one-quarter  pound  of  macaroons  in  a  glass 
dish,  mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  with  three  of  milk, 
put  a  pint  of  cream  over  the  fire  and  when  near  boiling  stir  in 
cornstarch;  cook  slowly  three  minutes;  remove  from  fire  and 
flavor  with  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  pour  over  macaroons.  When 
cold  dot  with  bright  bits  of  jelly  or  candied  fruit. 

Mrs.  R.  A.  Lonsdale. 

No.  7633  Madison  Avenue,  Chicago. 


TUESDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  TWENTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  plums. 

Hamburg  steak.        Cream  potatoes. 

Baking  powder  biscuits. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Lettuce  salad  with  cream  dressing. 

Bread  and  butter.        Tea. 

Potato  pancakes.  Apple  sauce. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  439 

DINNER. 

Ox-tail  soup. 

Mock  duck.  Red  cabbage. 

Boiled  potatoes.      Celery-root  salad. 

Bread  and  prune  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Stewed  Plums — Pour  boiling  water  on  a  dozen  of  large  blue 
plums;  take  off  skin;  halve  them  and  take  out  stones.  In  small 
granite  stewpan  put  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  as  much  water; 
when  this  boils  put  in  plums  and  stew  for  ten  minutes. 

Potato  Pancakes — Grate  ten  good-sized  potatoes  into  a  pan 
with  cold  water.  When  all  are  grated  drain  in  a  fine  sieve  or 
lay  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  on  a  colander  and  press  out  all  the 
water.  To  the  pulp  add  four  eggs  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 
Have  the  griddle  very  hot  and  well  greased.  Put  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  batter  and  spread  out  into  a  flat  cake.  Bake  to  a 
crisp  brown  on  both  sides.  Never  use  the  least  bit  of  flour,  or  you 
will  surely  spoil  them. 

Lettuce  Salad — Wash  two  heads  of  lettuce;  tear  each  leaf  into 
two  or  three  pieces;  drain  until  dry  and  pour  over  it  the  folio v/ing 
dressing: 

Cream  Dressing — Put  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  into  small 
bowl;  mix  with  half  a  cup  of  sweet  cream;  then  pour  into  this  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar;  stir  rapidly,  so  it  will  not  curdle. 

Ox-Tail  Soup — Cut  two  ox  tails  into  short  pieces;  roll  in  flour, 
two  tablespoonfuls  will  do.  Put  in  soup-kettle,  with  three  quarts 
of  water,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  dozen  peppercorns, 
two  whole  onions,  one  carrot,  one  small  turnip,  one  stalk  of  celery, 
three  sprigs  of  parsley.  Let  boil  slowly  for  three  hours.  Take 
out  the  tails;  strain  the  soup,  and  remove  all  fat.  Pick  meat  off 
the  bones;  cut  into  small  pieces  and  put  in  soup  tureen.  Pour 
over  the  hot  soup  and  serve. 

Red  Cabbage — Cut  up  a  medium-sized  head  of  red  cabbage 
same  as  for  slaw,  put  in  granite  stewpan,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  add  half  level  tablespoonful  of  salt,  a  generous  tablespoon- 
ful  of  good  dripping  or  sweet  lard  and  five  tablespoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar. Let  this  cook  slowly  for  two  hours,  then  dust  in  one-half 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer.  This  is  the 
German  way  of  cooking  red  cabbage,  and  is  excellent. 

Celery-Root  Salad — Wash  four  celery  roots;  boil  in  salted 
water,  allowing  about  one-half  tablespoonful  to  two  quarts  of 
water,  until  they  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork.  When  done 
throw  into  cold  water  and  scrape  off  the  skins.  Cut  into  thin 
slices  and  pour  over  a  plain  French  dressing.    Serve  very  cold. 

Bread  and  Prune  Pudding — In  the  morning  put  one  pound  of 
prunes  in  warm  water  and  let  soak  all  day.  Butter  a  baking  dish 
and  put  in  a  layer  of  stale  bread  cut  in  thin  slices  and  slightly 
buttered,  then  a  layer  of  prunes,  with  stones  removed,  and  so 


440  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

until  dish  is  filled,  the  last  layer  being  bread.  Beat  up  two  eggs 
with  one-fourth  cup  of  sugar,  add  one  pint  of  milk  and  pour  over 
the  bread  and  prunes.    Bake  one  hour. 


No.  606  Sedgwick  Street,  Chicago. 


Eda  B.  Luebbers. 


WEDNESDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  TWENTY-SECOND. 


BREAKFAST, 

Bananas. 

Cup  omelet.  Baked  potatoes. 

Corn  and  rice  mufiins.  Coffee, 


LUNCHEON. 

Ham  and  egg  sandwiches. 

Spiced  peaches. 

Jam  puffs.         Tea,  with  lemon  juice. 


DINNER. 

French  shoulder  of  veal. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Sweet  potatoes  baked. 

Jellied  grapes.      Coffee. 


Cup  Omelet — One  and  one-half  cups  cold  meat  (any  kind) 
chopped  fine,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  three  beaten 
eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  three-quarters  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half 
saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Stir  all  together  and  fill  five  small  but- 
tered cups;  set  cups  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  until  firm  in 
center.    Turn  out  on  a  platter  and  serve. 

Corn  and  Rice  Muffins — Two  cups  of  white  cornmeal  sifted 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  boiled  rice, 
one  teaspoonful  of  lard,  enough  boiling  Vv^ater  to  scald  it  all  and 
leave  it  thick  (about  three  ciipfuls);  let  cool,  then  add  one  cup 
s  our  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  milk  and  two 
v; Gil-beaten  eggs.    Bake  in  gom  tins  one-half  hour. 

Ham  and  Egg  Sandwiches — Chop  one  cupful  of  cold  boiled 
ham  very  fine,  put  tliree  fresh  eggs  into  boiling  water  and  let 
simmer  one-half  hour,  then  place  them  in  cold  water  to  remove 
the  shells  easily;  chop  the  eggs  fine,  add  to  the  ham;  season  with 
a  saltspoonful  of  dry  mustard  and  one-half  that  quantity  of  cay- 
enne pepper.  Slice  bread  a  day  old  very  thin,  cut  in  rounds  with 
biscuit  cutter,  spread  thinly  v/ith  butter,  then  with  the  ham  and 
egg  mixture,  cover  with  another  buttered  round.  (The  crusts  and 
pieces  of  bread  should  be  dried  in  a  slow  oven  and  rolled  to  be 
used  in  croquettes,  etc.) 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  441 

Spiced  Peaches — To  seven  pounds  of  peaches  take  four  pounds 
of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  vinegar.  Stick  two  cloves  into  each  peach, 
prick  with  a  fork  and  stew  until  tender.  Lay  them  in  a  jar  and 
pour  on  them  the  well-boiled  and  boiling  sirup.  Let  them  stand 
twenty-four  hours,  pour  off  the  sirup,  scald  and  pour  again  over 
the  fruit.  When  cold  they  are  ready  for  use.  Peaches  that  are 
not  soft  enough  to  slice  may  be  used. 

Jam  Puffs — Roll  out  puff  paste  very  thin,  cut  in  rounds  v/ith 
large  cookie-cutter,  lay  a  tablespoonful  of  jam  (any  kind)  on 
each,  v/Gt  the  edges  with  white  of  an  egg,  fold  over  and  pinch  the 
edges  firmly  together,  brush'  over  v/ith  the  egg  and  bake  fifteen 
minutes. 

The  above  makes  a  good  school  lunch,  in  which  case  each  sep- 
arate piece  should  be  wrapped  in  tissue  paper,  the  peaches  put  in 
a  small  glass  or  earthen  dish  with  cover,  and  a  bottle  of  milk 
or  milk  and  coffee  substituted  for  the  tea, 

French  Shoulder  of  Veal — Cut  the  meat  into  cubes  and  par- 
boil them.  Put  the  bones  and  trimmings  into  another  pot  and 
stew  them  slowly  for  t^vo  hours  (to  make  the  gravy)  in  a  quart 
of  water.  Put  the  meat  into  the  dish  in  v/hich  it  is  to  be  served, 
sprinkle  over  it  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  fourth  as  much  cayenne 
pepper,  the  yelloAV  rind  of  a  lemon  grated  and  half  a  grated  nut- 
meg. Use  the  juice  of  lemon  for  tea.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter rolled  in  the  same  quantity  of  flour;  strain  the  gravy,  pour  it 
over  the  meat  and  bake  until  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Jellied  Grapes — Place  two  cupfuls  of  washed  and  stemmed 
grapes  in  a  deep  dish  (a  good  way  to  use  the  loose  grapes  in  a 
basket),  sprinkle  among  them  one-half  cup  each  of  boiled  rice 
and  sugar,  pour  over  them  one-half  cup  of  water,  cover  close  and 
bake  two  hours  in  slow  oven.  Serve  very  cold  with  cream.  A 
delicate  dish.  Mrs.  Carrie  Lav/ton. 

Delavan,  Wis. 


THURSDAY,    SEPTEMBER    THE    TWENTY-THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Peaches. 

Oatmeal,    sugar   and  cream. 

Oysters  a  la  Kalamazoo. 

Buttered  toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Eggs  a  la  Carracas. 

Bread  and  butter  sandwiches. 

Fried  apples. 

Tea. 


442  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 


DINNER. 

Sirloin  steak. 

Wax  beans.  Potato  souffle. 

Lettuce  salad. 

Cream  chocolate  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Oysters  a  la  Kalamazoo — One  quart  salt  oysters,  drained;  two 
level  teaspoonfuls  cornstarch,  or  four  teaspoonfuls  flour;  salt- 
spoonful  celery  salt,  one-quarter  saltspoonful  white  pepper,  juice 
of  one-half  lemon.  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  seasoning.  Put 
in  oysters  and  cook  until  their  edges  curl.  Serve  very  hot  on 
slices  of  graham  bread,  toasted  and  buttered. 

Pried  Apples — Pare,  core  and  cut  into  cart-wheels  with  hol- 
low centers  eight  tart  apples — slices  one-quarter  inch  thick. 
Sprinkle  with  thick  layer  of  sugar  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  half 
an  hour  before  frying.  Heat  one  tablespoonful  butter  in  frying- 
pan;  put  layer  of  apples  in,  sugared  side  down;  cover,  to  steam 
until  soft.  Remove  cover  and  allow  them  to  brown.  Use  plenty 
of  butter  and  continue  to  fry  until  all  are  done.  Pour  over  them 
the  sauce  from  the  pan  and  heap  with  whipped  cream. 

Sirloin  Steak — Remove  bone.  Two  or  three  hours  before 
cooking  mix  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Rub  this  mixture 
thoroughly  over  both  sides  of  the  steak  and  let  lie  on  plate  until 
time  to  cook  it.  Broil  over  a  fire  of  bright  coals,  or  a  gas-range 
broiler;  serve  on  a  hot  platter,  with  cress  or  parsley  garnish. 
Two  objects  are  attained  by  this  process — the  steak  is  thorough- 
ly seasoned  through  without  waste  of  the  juices,  which  are  pre- 
vented from  passing  out  by  the  oil,  and  the  oil  passes  into  the 
fiber  of  the  meat,  making  it  tender  and  rich. 

Potato  Souffle — Steam  six  good-sized  potatoes  in  their  jackets. 
When  done,  peel  and  mash  them;  then  add  one  tablespoonful 
butter,  one-half  pint  hot  cream,  one  teaspoonful  salt  and  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  white  pepper.  Beat  until  smooth  and  light. 
Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  stir  them  gently  into  the 
potatoes;  heap  on  a  baking-dish,  and  put  in  a  quick  oven  to 
brown.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they  were  baked.  Two  heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese  added  with  the  cream  is  an 
improvement. 

Cream  Chocolate  Pudding — Two  squares  Baker's  unsweetened 
chocolate,  four  rounded  teaspoonfuls  granulated  sugar,  four 
tablespoonfuls  hot  water,  one  saltspoonful  salt,  one  saltspoon- 
ful vanilla  extract  or  cinnamon,  four  yolks  of  eggs  or  two  whole 
eggs,  one-half  cupful  cream,  one-quarter  cupful  milk.  Cook 
sugar,  chocolate  and  hot  water  to  smooth,  shiny  paste,  letting  it 
boil  Lard,  but  stir  carefully,  that  it  may  not  scorch.  Add  milk 
and  cream,  less  one  tablespoonful,  which  should  be  added  to 
egg  yolks  to  prevent  curdling.    Stir  until  it  boils.    Put  dish  in  a 


THE   CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  443 

pan  of  hot  water  and  add  eggs  carefully,  yolks  first,  stirring  very, 
very  fast.  After  it  thickens,  fold  the  beaten  whites  in  lightly  and 
gently,  adding  the  salt  and  vanilla.  Leave  covered,  over  pan  of 
hot  water,  ten  minutes  or  longer  until  spongy.  Sprinkle  pow- 
dered sugar  on  top  and  serve,  hot  or  cold,  v/ith  whipped  cream 
heaped  on  top.     A  most  dainty,  delicious  dessert. 

Mrs.  Charles  C.  Pickett. 
No.  1415  Church  Street,  Evanston,  111. 


FRIDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  TWENTY-FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

A  Cuban  breakfast  dish. 

Butter  rolls.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cheese  cream  toast. 

Celery  salad.  Cold  butter  rolls. 

Peanut  cookies.  Tea. 


_  DINNER. 

Tomato  tapioca  soup. 

Halibut  steaks  stuffed  and  baked.    Browned  potatoes. 

Frizzled  beans. 

Peach  pudding.        Coffee. 


Grapes — Grapes  should  be  rinsed  in  cold  water,  drained  in  a 
sieve,  and  then  arranged  in  a  pretty  basket;  fruit  scissors  should 
accompany  the  basket  to  divide  the  clusters. 

Breakfast  Dish — Take  a  teacupful  of  freshened  codfish,  picked 
up  fine.  Fry  a  sliced  onion  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  When 
it  has  turned  a  light  brown,  put  in  the  fish,  with  water  enough  to 
cover  it;  add  five  ripe,  medium-sized  tomatoes  and  cook  nearly 
an  hour;  seasoning  with  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Serve 
on  slices  of  dipped  toast,  hot.    This  is  a  very  nice  dish. 

Butter  Rolls — Sift  one  quart  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  together;  rub  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  cold;  then  add  one  beaten  egg  and  a  pint 
of  milk;  mix  soft  as  possible.  Roll  out  one-half  an  inch  in 
thickness,  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Dip  them  in  melted  but- 
ter, fold  one-third  of  each  piece  over  the  remainder,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Cheese  Cream  Toast — Stale  bread  may  be  used  as  follows: 
Toast  the  slices  and  cover  them  slightly  with  grated  cheese; 
make  a  cream  for  five  slices  out  of  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour;    the  milk  should  be  boiling  and  the  flour 


444  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

mixed  in  a  little  cold  water  before  stirring  in.  When  the  cream 
is  nicely  cooked,  season  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter;  set  the  toast  and  cheese  in  the  oven  for  four 
minutes;    then  pour  the  cream  over  them. 

Celery  Salad — Cut  the  white  stalks  of  celery  into  pieces  a 
half-inch  long.  To  one  pint  of  these  pieces  allow  a  half-pint  of 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Dust  the  celery  lightly  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; mix  it  with  the  dressing;  heap  it  on  a  cold  plate,  garnish 
with  white  tips  of  the  celery  and  serve  at  once.  Do  not  mix  the 
celery  and  dressing  until  you  are  ready  to  use  the  salad. 

Peanut  Cookies — Shell  sufficient  peanuts  to  give  one  pint  of 
tlie  meats.  Rub  off  all  the  inner  skin  and  chop  very  fine,  or  put 
through  a  meat  cutter.  Cream  together  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  one  cup  of  sugar;  add  three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  the  chopped  peanuts,  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out,  cut  in  circles  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Tomato  Tapioca  Soup — To  one  pint  of  strained  red  tomatoes 
add  one-half  tablespoonful  of  extract  of  beef,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  three  small  tablespoonfuls  of  minute  tapioca,  one  and  one- 
half  pints  of  hot  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper;    boil  fifteen  minutes.    Serve  with  croutons. 

Halibut  Steak  Stuffed  and  Baked — Secure  two  shapely  steaks; 
wash  and  thoroughly  dry  them  with  a  towel.  Make  a  stuffing 
from  a  cupful  of  crumbs,  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  onion  juice,  one  of  chopped  parsley,  a  dash  of  cayenne, 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  just  a  grating  of  nutmeg 
and  quarter  of  a,  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Place  one  steak  in  the  bak- 
ing-pan; lay  carefully  over  it  the  stuffing  and  place  above  it  the 
other  steak.  Put  small  pieces  of  butter  over  the  top,  and  dust 
slightly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Bake  until  a  golden  brown,  about 
thirty  minutes.  Cover  the  pan  tightly  for  the  first  twenty  min- 
utes.    Serve  on  a  hot  platter,  with  garnish  of  sliced  lemon. 

Frizzled  Beans— String  and  break  into  inch  lengths  as  many 
beans  as  are  required  for  five  persons;  boil  until  tender  in  plenty 
of  salted  water;  drain  in  a  colander  and  dredge  slightly  and 
evenly  with  sifted  flour.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan, and  when  hot  pour  in  the  beans  and  turn  frequently; 
allowing  all  to  come  next  to  the  pan  in  turn.     Serve  hot. 

Peach  Pudding — Pare  and  stone  one  quart  of  ripe  peaches, 
and  cut  in  quarters.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  with  half  a 
cup  of  powdered  sugar  until  it  is  stiff  enough  to  cut  with  a  knife. 
Take  the  yolks  and  mix  with  half  a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar 
and  a  pint  of  milk.  Put  the  i;eaches  into  the  mixture,  place  in  a 
baking' dish  and  bake  until  almost  firm;  then  put  in  the  whites, 
mixing  all  thoroughly  again,  and  bake  a  light  brown.  Serve  ice 
cold.  Marion  C.  Wilson. 

ko.  6407  Lexington  Avenue,  Chicago. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  445 

SATURDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  TWENTY-FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Peaches. 

Minced  meat  on  toast. 

Hashed  and  browned  potatoes. 

Graham  muffins.  Maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Salmon  salad.        French  dressing. 

Sliced  tomatoes.  Bread  and  butter. 

Cantaloupe.        Tea. 


DINNER. 

Green  corn  soup.  *, 

Lamb  chops,  breaded.        Baked  potatoes. 

Summer  squash. 

Frozen  peaches.        Lemon  sponge  cake. 

Coffee. 


Hashed  and  Browned  Potatoes^ — One  quart  cooked  potatoes, 
cut  into  pieces,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per, one  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion,  one-half  pint  soup  stock. 
Put  the  onion  and  half  the  butter  into  a  frying-pan,  and  when 
the  onion  turns  a  light  straw  color,  add  the  flour  and  stir  until 
smooth  and  frothy.  Gradually  add  the  soup  stock  and  stir  until 
It  boils,  then  add  half  the  salt  and  pepper  and  cook  five  minutes; 
season  the  potatoes  with  the  remainder  of  the  salt  and  pepper 
and  stir  them  into  the  sauce  and  cook  five  minutes  without  stir- 
ring. Put  the  remainder  of  the  butter  into  another  frying-pan, 
and  when  it  is  quite  hot  turn  the  potatoes  into  this  pan  and  cook 
fifteen  minutes,  until  browned  thoroughly.  Fold  them  over  like 
an  omelet,  and  turn  on  to  a  warm  dish  and  serve  at  once,  gar- 
nishing with  a  little  parsley. 

Salmon  Salad — One  quart  cooked  salmon,  two  heads  of  let- 
tuce, two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  one  tablespoonful  vine- 
gar, one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  pepper, 
one  cupful  of  French  dressing.  Break  up  the  salmon  and  sea- 
son it  with  the  salt,  pepper,  vinegar  and  lemon  juice.  Keep  in  a 
cool  place  for  two  hours.  At  serving  time  (save  enough  of  the 
lettuce  leaves,  well  washed,  to  border  the  dish),  tear  the  remain- 
der in  pieces  and  arrange  these  in  the  center  of  a  flat  dish;  on 
them  heap  the  salmon  lightly  and  cover  with  the  dressing.  Ar- 
range the  whole  leaves  at  the  base.  Any  kind  of  fish  left  from 
the  day  before  may  be  used  for  this  salad. 


446  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

French  Dressing — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  or  melt- 
ed butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt — or  less,  if  butter  is  used — one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
if  desired  also,  one-half  teaspoonful  mustard.  Mix  thoroughly- 
one  tablespoonful  of  the  oil  with  the  salt  and  pepper  and  mustard, 
then  add  the  remainder  of  the  oil  and  the  vinegar. 

Lamb  Chops,  Breaded — Take  about  two  pounds  of  lamb 
chops,  having  had  the  bones  taken  out;  rub  over  them  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  and  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  pepper,  then  dip 
them  in  one  well-beaten  egg,  and  roll  in  fine  cracker  crumbs, 
and  fry  brown  in  hot  butter. 

Pried  Summer  Squash — Take  three  or  four  small  and  tender 
summer  squash  (crooknecks  are  the  best),  cut  in  slices  about  one- 
half  inch  thick,  taking  out  the  seeds;  boil  them  half  an  hour,  or 
until  tender,  in  slightly  salted  water.  When  done,  fry  them  in 
butter  until  a  delicate  brown. 

Frozen  Peaches — One  quart  of  quite  ripe  peaches,  after  they 
are  peeled  and  cut  into  pieces,  one  heaping  pint  of  granulated 
sugar,  one  quart  of  water,  two  cupfuls  of  whipped  cream;  boil 
the  sugar  and  water  together  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  and'  cool. 
Rub  the  peaches  through  a  sieve,  add  them  to  the  sirup  and 
freeze.  When  the  beater  is  taken  out,  stir  in  the  whipped  cream; 
cover  and  set  away  an  hour  before  serving. 

Lemon  Sponge  Cake — Five  eggs,  one  and  a  quarter  cups  of 
sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
half  a  lemon,  one  pinch  of  salt;  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together 
until  very  light,  add  the  lemon  juice  and  rind  and  salt;  beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  stir  the  flour  and  this  froth  alternate- 
ly, part  at  a  time,  into  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar,  folding  care- 
fully from  the  sides  of  the  bowl,  so  as  not  to  break  the  froth. 
B^ill  the  pan  about  half  full,  and  put  into  the  oven  not  quite  hot 
enough  to  bake,  leaving  one  door  ajar,  until  it  rises  almost  to  the 
top  of  the  pan.  Then  close  the  oven  and  bake  about  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour.     Very  delicate  and  nice. 

Miss  Ella  Sloane. 

No.  522  East  Castilla  Street,  Colorado  Springs,  Colo. 


SUNDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  TWENTY-SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cantaloupes, 

Fried  tomatoes.  Creamed  fish. 

Rice  griddle  cakes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Meat  patties.  Pop-overs. 

Sliced  peaches. 


THE  CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  447 

DINNER. 

Cream,  of  celery  soup. 

Chicken  southern  style.  Corn  oysters. 

Egg  plant.  Stewed  tomatoes. 

Grape  tart. 


Pried  Tomatoes — Six  washed  tomatoes,  a  half  cup  of  flour, 
teaspoon  level  full  of  salt,  one-third  as  much  pepper.  Scald  and 
skin  tomatoes  and  cut  larger  ones  into  three  slices,  small  ones 
into  two.  Put  flour  into  a  soup-plate  with  salt  and  pepper,  mix- 
ing well.  Roll  each  slice  of  tomato  in  this  seasoned  flour  and  fry 
in  a  pan  in  very  hot  lard;  that  is,  have  the  lard  very  hot  when 
you  put  in  the  tomatoes;  then  let  them  cook  very  slowly;  when 
a  dark  brown  turn,  and  fry  on  other  side. 

Tomatoes  may  also  be  fried  in  bacon  drippings  and  are  deli- 
cious with  the  crisped  bacon. 

Creamed  Fish — This  dish  is  delicious,  no  fish  freshly  cooked 
being  better.  Put  a  good  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  pan,  let  it 
brown  slightly  (the  browning  gives  the  sauce  a  rich  color),  and 
add  an  even  tablespoonful  of  flour;  blend  well  and  add  milk  till 
consistency  of  rather  thick  sauce  or  gravy.  Seasoning:  A  level 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  half  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  ginger  each; 
a  shake  of  cayenne  and  two  or  three  of  mace.  Cook  two  or  three 
minutes,  add  a  cupful  of  cold  cooked  fish  in  pieces  size  of  lima 
beans  or  larger,  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Serve  in  hot  platter 
garnished  with  parsley. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes — Break  three  eggs,  putting  the  yolks  into 
a  large  bowl  (size  used  for  cake  mixing),  the  whites  into  a  small- 
er one.  Add  a  large  cup  of  milk  and  level  teaspoonful  of  salt 
to  yolks  and  beat  well  with  dover  beater.  Now  add  flour  enough 
to  make  a  very  stiff  batter,  almost  dough,  and  beat  hard  for  three 
or  four  minutes.  When  so  beaten  put  in  milk  until  you  have  a 
rather  thin  batter  which  will  be  perfectly  smooth  and  aerated. 
Next  put  in  a  cup  of  rice,  cooked,  the  grains  well  separated,  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  the  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  on  griddle,  dipping  always  to  bot- 
tom of  bowl,  as  the  rice  sinks.  Never  turn  a  cake  twice — it  makes 
it  heavy.  Remember  the  batter  should  be  as  thin  as  you  can 
manage  to  bake  it.  The  thinner  the  batter  the  more  delicate  the 
cake  or  wafile. 

Coffee — An  excellent  way  to  make  coffee  and  get  its  full 
strength  is  as  follows:  Grind  as  much  coffee  as  you  require,  very 
flne,  put  into  pot  with  crushed  eggshells,  adding  water  in  regu- 
lar proportion  to  coffee  used.  Let  this  come  slowly  to  a  boil, 
keeping  it  tightly  covered.  When  the  boiling  point  is  reached, 
draw  back  a  moment  and  then  again  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Send 
immediately  to  table,  and  you  will  find  your  coffee  is  stronger 
and  smoother,  with  a  finer  aroma  than  when  made  in  the  usual 
manner.  Never  use  the  whites  of  eggs  to  clear.  It  coats  the 
grounds  and  the  essence  cannot  escape. 


448        '         THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Meat  Patties — When  you  make  pie  crust  always  fill  your 
tart  tins  and  keep  these  paste  shells  for  meat  patties  as  well  as 
tarts.  Do  not  bake  them  too  brown,  so  they  may  take  just  the 
right  color  when  heated  over  for  the  patties.  For  the  filling  of 
meat  patties  fry  two  or  three  slices  of  onion  brown  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  adding  a  bay  leaf,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
half-saltspoonful  of  pepper,  as  much  ginger,  a  shake  of  cayenne 
and  nutmeg  each,  a  teaspoonf ul  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and,  Y/hen 
the  butter  is  right  brown,  add  enough  good  soup  stock  to  make  a 
rather  thick  gravy.  Strain,  return  to  pan,  and  put  in  a  cup  of 
cold  cooked  meat  (preferably  veal  or  lamb),  v/hich  has  been 
minced  very  fine.  Let  cook  five  or  ten  minutes  and  fill  into  pat- 
tie-cases  which  have  been  heated  very  hot  in  the  oven.  Send 
to  table  on  hot  platter. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup — Celery  soup  made  of  milk,  celery,  but- 
ter, flour  and  a  little  onion  juice  is  very  good,  but  it  is  not  the 
best  that  can  be  made  by  any  means.  The  best  results  are  ar- 
rived at  from  the  following  method  of  preparing:  Cut  up  toler- 
ably fine  a  pound  of  round  steak  (or  use  its  equivalent  in  odds 
and  ends  of  cold  meat)  and  put  in  a  pot  with  two  quarts  of  cold 
water.  Bring  to  a  boil,  and  then  set  back  to  simmer  gently, 
covered.  At  the  end  of  two  hours  add  a  stalk  of  celery,  cut  in 
inch  pieces,  a  good  half-cup  of  rice,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
small  onion,  sliced.  Let  all  simmer  for  two  hours  longer,  and 
then  add  a  cup  of  rich  milk  and  strain.  There  should  be  a  quart 
of  stock  before  putting  in  the  milk.  The  rice  both  thickens  and 
helps  flavor  the  soup.  If  you  v/ish  to  add  another  touch  a  cup  of 
whipped  cream  is  in  order,  and  a  couple  of  large  spoonfuls  of 
cooked  rice  is  also  an  addition. 

Southern  Chicken — Steam  the  chicken  when  nicely  dressed 
(whole)  for  one  hour,  if  young;  until  tender  if  older;  putting 
the  gizzard,  feet  (skinned)  and  neck  in  the  water  below  the 
steamer,  of  which  there  should  be  a  good  pint  and  a  half  in  the 
pot  when  the  steaming  is  finished.  A  chicken  a  year  old  or  a 
little  less  is  as '  good  if  not  better  than  one  young- 
er. When  steamed,  take  out  and  put  down  in 
the  chicken  stock  in  the  pot  to  cool  and  absorb  the  juice.  Do 
this  in  the  moraing  and  let  stay  till  dinner  time,  when  the  chick- 
en is  removed  and  cut  up  for  frying;  or,  if  small,  divided  into 
two. pieces,  the  legs,  second  joint  and  lower  part  of  back  forming 
one  piece,  the  breast  and  v/ings  the  other.  Put  in  a  soup  plate 
one-half  cup  of  flour  seasoned  with  one  saltspoon  of  pepper  and 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  roll  the  pieces  of  chicken  in  this  and 
put  on  to  fry  in  drippings — lard  and  butter  mixed — or,  better  still, 
in  chicken  fat,  if  there  was  any  taken  from  the  stock  in  the  pot. 
The  chicken  being  already  cooked,  It  is  only  necessary  to  fry 
until  you  have  a  golden  brown  surface  to  the  pieces,  vv^hen  you 
remove  to  a  hot  platter  and  stand  in  warming  oven.  Put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  in  the  pan  (and  a  little  extra  butter  of  neces- 
sary) and  let  it  brown  very  slightly;  then  add  the  chicken  stock 
and  a  half-cup  of  cream  or  milk.    Season  with  a  half  teaspoonful 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  449 

of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  pepper.  Strain  this  gravy  over  the 
chicken,  and  send  to  table  garnished  with  parsley  or  the  tops  of 
celery. 

Corn  Oysters — Grate  eight  ears  of  corn  and  scrape  the  cob. 
Beat  (separately)  two  eggs,  adding  the  yolks  to  pulp,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Next  add  a  small  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  and 
lastly  the  beaten  whites.  The  amount  of  crumbs  depends  upon 
the  milkiness  of  the  corn — a  thick  corn  batter  being  necessary. 
Never  use  flour  or  milk — the  cracker  carries  out  the  oyster  flavor 
and  idea  admirably,  being  a  real  addition.  Fry  (oyster  shape)  in 
hot  lard  or  drippings.  Put  in  oven  to  keep  hot  and  crisp  a  lit- 
tle while  others  are  frying. 

Eggplant — Never  cook  it  in  batter;  it  is  abominable.  Peel, 
slice,  and  sprinkle  each  slice  with  salt  at  noon.  Put  in  a  bowl  with 
a  plate  on  top,  a  flat-iron  to  press  it  down.  At  dinner  time  wash 
dry,  roll  in  flour,  seasoned  with  pepper  (salt  will  be  unneces- 
sary) and  fry  in  hot  drippings  or  sweet  lard  to  a  rich  dark  brown. 

Stewed  Tomatoes — Scald,  skin  and  cut  in  pieces  the  amount 
you  wish  to  use.  For  a  quart  or  little  over  put  in  the  saucepan 
with  the  tomatoes  a  small  onion  (it  improves  the  flavor),  a  good 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  one  shake  of 
cayenne  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Let  the  tomatoes  cook 
slowly  uncovered  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  when  they  should 
look  "boiled  down"  and  a  rich  color.  A  few  minutes  before  serv- 
ing add  a  large-sized  slice  of  bread  cut  in  neat  small  dice. 

Grape  Tart — Prepare  the  grapes  by  "popping"  the  pulp  out 
of  the  skin,  cooking  till  soft,  rubbing  through  a  soup  sieve,  re- 
turning with  the  skins  to  the  cooking  vessel,  adding  a  cup  of 
sugar  for  each  cup  of  water  and  boiling  gently  for  flfteen  minutes 
or  more.  You  now  have  a  rich,  seedless  grape  filling  for  your 
tarts.  The  tart  shells  are,  of  course,  made  of  good  pie  crust,  for 
which  an  unfailing  recipe  is  as  follows:  Use  any  size  cup  or 
tumbler  for  measuring  you  desire,  only  preserving  the  exact  pro- 
portions. Three  even  cups  of  flour,  one-half  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  two  even  cups  of  shortening  and  a  scant  one  of  ice  water, 
in  which  is  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cold 
is  the  secret  of  good  pie  crust.  Put  your  flour  on  a  bread  board 
and  a  cup  and  one-third  of  lard  in  the  midst;  chop  them  together 
till  well  mixed,  and  if  the  lard  is  not  fine  enough  rub  quickly  be- 
tween the  hands.  Now  work  in  the  Vv^ater  with  a  knife,  not 
touching  with  the  hands  (some  flour  takes  more  water  than  oth- 
ers, but  bear  in  mind  that  you  want  a  stiff,  not  a  soft,  dough). 
Now  sprinkle  with  flour,  roll  out  with  a  rolling-pin  and  spread 
with  one-third  cup  butter.  Cut  in  three  pieces,  piling  them  to- 
gether; again  cut  in  three  and  pile  together;  sprinkle  with 
flour  and  flatten  (by  little  blows)  with  the  rolling-pin.  Now  put 
on  a  platter  or  a  plate  or  in  a  small  porcelain  dripping  pan  and 
put  it  on  ice.  When  thoroughly  cold  roll  out  again,  spread  with 
one-third  cup  of  butter  (the  last  of  your  two  cups  of  shortening), 
cut,  pile  up,  pound  together  and  put  on  ice  as  before.  When  next 
cold  it  is  ready  to  be  baked  as  pies  or  tarts — and  almost  equal  to 

29 


450  THE  CHICAGO  HECORD  COOK  BOOl^: 

the  best  of  puff  paste.  The  directions  when  read  once  seem  elab- 
orate, but  tried  once  they  seem  as  simple  as  any  pie  crust.  It 
may  be  kept  on  ice  for  several  days. 

Mrs.  K.  G.  Williams. 
No.  583  LaSalle  Avenue,  Chicago. 


MONDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  TWENTY-SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Concord  grapes. 

Ham  and  rice.  Hot  buttered  toast. 

Roll  breakfast  cake.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Stuffed  eggs.    Broiled  potatoes. 

Cold  slaw. 

Honey  tea  cake.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Pea  soup. 

Braised  liver.  Baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Lima  beans. 

Brown  Betty.  Coffee. 


Ham  and  Rice — Chop  very  fine  one  cupful  of  the  crumbs  and 
trimmings  of  boiled  ham.  Boil  one  cup  of  rice  and  mix  the  ham 
with  it  while  hot;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  pile  it  lightly 
on  a  platter.  Beat  three  eggs,  add  one  pint  of  milk,  cook  it  over 
boiling  water  until  thickened  slightly;  then  pour  it  over  the  rice 
and  serve  at  once. 

Roll  Breakfast  Cake — Two  coffee  cups  of  bread  dough  when 
ready  for  the  baking  pans,  four  scant  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
two  of  sugar,  the  white  of  one  egg  well  beaten,  a  saltspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  finely 
ground  cinnamon.  Mix  all  thoroughly  together,  using  sufficient 
flour  to  make  the  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Roll  one-fourth  of  an 
inch  thick  and  spread  with  a  paste  made  by  stirring  two-thirds 
of  a  cup  of  sugar  into  one  well-beaten  egg;  roll  up  like  jelly  cake, 
cut  transversely  into  pieces  one  inch  thick,  set  on  ends  close  to- 
gether in  shallow  tins,  let  stand  till  very  light  and  bake  in  a  rather 
quick  oven.    Excellent  warm  or  cold. 

Honey  Tea  Cake — One  cup  of  honey,  half  a  cup  of  sour  cream, 
two  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  scant  half-teaspoonful 
of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Bake  thirty  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven. 

Pea  Soup— Pick  over  one  cup  of  split  peas,  wash  and  put 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  45t 

tfiem  into  one  quart  of  rapidly  boiling^  water.  Boil  steadily  until 
tender  and  dissolved.  Then  rub  them  through  a  gravy-strainer, 
and  put  on  to  boil  again;  add  one  pint  of  milk.  Dissolve  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  in  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter;  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  saltspoonful  white  pepper.  When  the 
soup  is  boiling  stir  in  the  seasoning  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer. 
Serve  vs^ith  toasted  crackers  or  fried  cubes  of  stale  bread. 

Braised  Liver — Scald  and  remove  as  much  of  the  skin  as  pos- 
sible. Pin  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  or  bacon  over  the  rounded  side, 
using  small  wooden  skewers  to  hold  them  in  place.  Fry  one 
sliced  onion  and  put  it  with  the  liver  into  a  deep  granite  pan  or  a 
large-mouthed  jar — anything  that  can  be  covered  closely.  Cover 
with  boiling  water;  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  four  whole  cloves  and  one  teaspoonful  of  whole 
thyme  or  marjoram.  Place  the  pan  in  a  moderate  oven,  cover 
closely  and  cook  slowly  from  two  to  three  hours.  After  the  water 
is  reduced  one-half  baste  often,  and  when  the  liver  is  tender  re- 
move it  and  put  the  liquor  on  to  boil.  Skim  off  the  fat,  thicken  it 
with  flour  wet  In  cold  water;  add  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  or  half 
a  cup  of  catchup,  and  strain  over  the  liver. 

Brown  Betty — Butter  a  deep  pudding-dish,  and  place  a  layer 
of  finely  chopped  apples  in  the  bottom,  then  add  a  layer  of  very 
fine  bread  crumbs;  sprinkle  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  dot  with  butter;  then  an- 
other layer  of  apples,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled.  The  top 
layer  should  be  of  the  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
quite  brown,  and  serve  while  hot,  either  with  sweetened  cream  or 
a  hard  sauce.  Mrs.  P.  A.  Thompson. 

No.  405  West  53d  Street,  Austin,  111. 


TUESDAY,    SEPTEMBER    THE    TWENTY-EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Peaches  and  cream. 

Crisped  bacon  and  sweet  potatoes. 

Southern  corn  pone.     Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Macaroni  rarebit. 

Tomato  salad. 

Banana  shortcake.      Tea. 


DINNER. 

Corn  and  tomato  soup. 

Rolled  flank  steaks,  brown  gravy. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Squash. 

Grape  ice.  Coffee. 


452  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOIt. 

Crisped  Bacon  and  Sweet  Potatoes— Take  cold  steamed  sweet 
potatoes  and  cut  in  halves;  wrap  each  half  with  a  thin  slice  of 
bacon  and  fasten  with  a  wood  toothpick.  Place  in  a  pan  and  in 
a  hot  oven  until  potatoes  are  a  nice  brown  and  the  bacon  crisp. 

Southern  Corn  Pone — Mix  with  cold  water  into  a  soft  dough 
one  quart  of  yellow  cornmeal,  sifted,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  melted.  Mold  into  oval  cakes  with  the  hands 
and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven,  in  well-greased  pans.  To  be  eaten 
hot.    The  crust  should  be  brown. 

Banana  Shortcake — Into  three  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  rub  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  add  one-half  of  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Mix  to  a  soft  dough  with 
cold  milk  and  bake  in  two  layers.  Grate  one-half  of  the  peel  of  an 
orange;  then  cut  it  in  half  crosswise,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp;  rub 
four  bananas  through  a  sieve;  add  to  this  the  orange  rind  and 
pulp  and  one  cupful  of  sugar;  then  stir  in  one-half  of  a  cupful 
of  thick  cream,  beaten  stiff,  and  spread  between  and  over  the 
cakes.    Serve  with  sweet  cream. 

Macaroni  Rarebit — Into  a  frying-pan  put  one  teaspoonful  of 
butter;  when  hot  add  one  cupful  of  cold  boiled  macaroni,  cut  fine; 
to  it  add  one  small  cupful  of  grated  cheese  and  two  well-beaten 
eggs.  Dust  with  pepper,  cook  until  set,  and  serve  on  toast.  If 
cheese  is  fresh,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Corn  and  Tomato  Soup — Scald  and  skim  one  quart  of  tomatoes, 
add  one  quart  of  any  good  stock,  one-quarter  of  a  small  carrot, 
one  small  onion,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  six  peppercorns,  and,  if 
possible,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  ham.  Cook  all  together 
very  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  rub 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire,  and  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  two  tablesijoonfnls  of  flour; 
stir  until  the  soup  is  smooth  and  slightly  thickened,  add  a  large 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  cupful  of  scraped  corn;  cook  ten  minutes 
longer  and  serve. 

Flank  Steaks — Purchase  two  flank  steaks  and  have  the  butcher 
score  them.  Lay  on  each  steak  a  dressing  made  of  one  cupful  of 
bread  crumbs,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful 
of  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion,  browned,  and  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter;  fasten  with  strings;  when  nicely  rolled  sprin- 
kle with  one-liaif  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven,  basting  often,  for  thirty-flve  minutes.  Place  on  a 
hot  platter,  make  a  rich  brown  gravy  and  pour  over  them. 

Grape  Ice — Make  a  sirup  with  one  and  one-half  pounds  of 
sugar  and  one  pint  of  water;  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point  and  pour 
it  while  hot  over  four  pounds  of  ripe  grapes,  which  have  been 
mashed  to  a  pulp.  Let  stand  covered  for  one  hour,  then  rub 
through  a  sieve,  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  freeze.  When 
partly  frozen  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Mix  in  well  and  finish  freez- 
ing.   Then  pack  and  set  away  for  two  hours. 

Mrs.  Charles  Adams. 

No.  25  Union  Street,  Hornellsville,  N.  Y. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  453 

WEDNESDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  TWENTY-NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Mixed  fruits  and  cantaloupes. 

Fried  calves'  liver.  Gherkin  sauce. 

Potatoes  creamed. 

Cornmeal  crumpets.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  sliced  tongue. 

Welsh  rarebit.  Bread  and  butter. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Oysters. 

Stewed  lamb,  with  potatoes. 

Tomatoes  farci — mayonnaise.  Stuffed  cucumbers. 

Bread  and  butter.  Coffee. 


Mixed  Fruits  and  Cantaloupes — Cut  small  cantaloupes  in  two, 
and  if  overripe  and  unedible  let  the  insides  be  scooped  out  and 
filled  with  seeded  grapes,  sliced  plums  and  peaches,  shredded 
pineapple  and  orange  juice  for  flavor.  Mix  fruit  salad  in  a  bowl  and 
when  ice  cold  put  portions  of  it  in  the  melon.  If  sweet,  do  not 
remove  flesh  of  melons. 

Fried  Calves'  Liver — Cut  a  pound  of  calves'  liver  into  slices  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Dip  each  slice  in  a  mixture  of  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  as  much  pepper. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  frying  pan  with  some  clear  drippings  and 
when  very  hot  put  in  the  liver;  turn  after  five  minutes  and  when 
done  place  on  a  hot  dish.  While  this  is  cooking,  try  in  another 
pan  crisp  and  brown  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  cut  in  thin 
rashers,  so  it  will  be  done  at  the  same  time  as  the  liver.  Pour 
most  of  the  fat  from  both  pans,  adding  a  little  from  that  in  which 
the  bacon  was  cooked  to  the  other;  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  and  dilute,  when  smooth,  with  one-half  pint  of  water  or 
weak  stock;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  mushroom  ketchup  and 
stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  gherkins.  Place  the  liver  on  a 
hot  platter,  pour  the  gravy  around  it  and  garnish  the  edge  with 
the  bacon. 

Stuffed  Cucumbers — Pare  six  small  cucumbers,  cut  off  the 
lower  ends,  and  with  a  small  spoon  extract  all  the  seeds;  let  them 
stand  for  ten  minutes  in  water  containing  a  little  vinegar,  and 
then  parboil  for  three  minutes  in  boiling  water;  drain  and  lay  in 
cold  water;  drain  again  and  fill  the  insides  with  a  good  chicken 
forcemeat;  line  a  pan  with  thin  slices  of  pork,  lay  on  the  cu- 
cumbers, season  with  salt,  pepper  and  minced  herbs;  baste  witll 


454  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

melted  butter  and  roast,  covered  with  buttered  paper,  for  twenty 
minutes.     Lift  from  the  pan  and  pour  a  brown  sauce  around.^ 

Mae  Mikuska. 
No.  109  Bunker  Street,  Chicago. 


THURSDAY,  SEPTEMBER  THE  THIRTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

California  grapes. 

Pettijohn  and  cream. 

Broiled  calves'  liver.    Baked  potatoes. 

Apple  johnny  cake.      Scrambled  eggs. 


LUNCHEON. 

Minced   cream   clams. 

Hot  buttered  soda  crackers. 

Peaches  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Cornstarch  cake. 


DINNER. 

Green-corn  soup. 

Roast  lamb — mint  sauce. 

Potatoes  a  la  neige. 

Eggplant.         Creamed  carrots. 

Cream  pie. 

Coffee. 


Minced  Cream  Clams — Cook  over  water  two  tablespoons  of 
flour,  with  two  of  butter;  when  they  bubble  add  slowly  twenty- 
five  hard  clams,  chopped  fine,  and  one-half  cup  of  clam  juice,  a 
dash  of  red  pepper;  simmer  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  then  add 
one  gill  of  cream;  boil  up  and  serve. 

Hot  Buttered  Crackers — Spread  square  soda  crackers  with 
butter,  place  in  a  pan  and  put  in  a  brisk  oven  until  brown.  Serve 
with  the  clams. 

Cornstarch  Cake — Whites  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  corn- 
starch, one  cup  of  fiour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  flavor 
with  almond. 

Green-Corn  Soup — Scrape  enough  green-corn  pulp  to  make  one 
pint.  Boil  the  cobs  thirty  minutes  in  water  enough  to  cover  them; 
there  should  be  a  pint  when  strained.  Put  it  on  to  heat,  and 
when  boiling  add  the  corn  pulp  and  cook  fifteen  minutes;  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one-half  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  one  pint  of  rich  milk 
or  cream.    Boil  five  minutes  and  serve  at  once. 

Harriet  L.  Hale, 

No.  117  West  Newton  Street,  Boston,  Mass, 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  455 

FRIDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Melons. 

Farina,  sugar  and  cream. 

Corned-beef  hash. 

Muffins.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Eggs  with  tomato  sauce. 

Celery  sandwiches. 

Cakes.        Tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  rice  soup. 

Baked  trout — potato  stuffing. 

Lima  beans.  Cucumber  salad. 

Apple  pie.  Cheese. 


Eggs,  with  Tomato  Sauce — Boil  six  eggs  hard;  cut  lengthwise 
and  lay  on  a  dish;  cover  with  tomato  sauce;  stand  over  hot  water 
about  ten  minutes. 

For  the  Sauce — Cook  slowly  one  pint  of  tomatoes,  with  a  slice 
of  onion,  sprig  of  parsley,  two  or  three  cloves  and  a  bay  leaf,  for 
fifteen  minutes;  then  strain.  Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  then  the  tomato,  and  stir  until  it  thick- 
ens; add  also  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  half-saltspoonful  of 
pepper. 

Celery  Sandwiches — Take  the  tops  of  young  celery;  wash  care- 
fully and  lay  between  thin  slices  of  bread  that  have  been  spread 
with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Cream  of  Rice  Soup — To  one  quart  of  clear  stock  add  one  cup 
of  rice,  a  slice  of  onion  and  a  sprig  each  of  parsley  and  celery. 
Boil  one-half  hour  and  put  through  a  sieve.  Scald  one  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  milk  and  add  to  the  strained  rice,  with  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter-saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Just  be- 
fore serving  add  half  a  cupful  of  cream.  If  you  haven't  the  cream, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  makes  it  very  tasty. 

Baked  Trout — Have  a  trout  weighing  about  four  pounds.  Boil 
three  potatoes,  good-sized  ones;  mash  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
half-saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Stuff  the  fish  with  this,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  in  dripping-pan  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter,  six  tomatoes  and  half  a  cupful  of  water.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  fifty  minutes.  Serve  with  the  tomatoes  and 
slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Cucumber  Salad — Slice  three  cucumbers  and  one  onion  and  let 


456  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

stand  in  ice  water  one  hour.  Lay  them  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and 
serve  with  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Apple  Pie — Rub  together  one  scant  cupful  of  flour  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard  and  one  of  butter  and  a  saltspoon  of  salt. 
Wet  with  just  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  and 
line  a  deep  pie  tin.  Have  sour  apples  sliced  thin,  and  have 
plenty  of  them — the  pan  should  be  heaped.  Half  a  cup  of  sugar  is 
usually  enough  to  cover  them.  Grate  nutmeg  over  this  and  dot 
small  bits  of  butter  all  around.  Lay  the  upper  crust  over  them; 
wet  the  edges  and  press  together.  The  top  crust  should  be  per- 
forated in  the  middle.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five  min- 
utes. 

The  cheese  to  be  very  appetizing  should  be  grated  and  laid  in 
a  dish  on  a  dainty  doily.  Mrs.  C.  B.  Scott. 

No.  3126  Calumet  Avenue,  Chicago. 


SATURDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Frizzled  beef.  Hot  rolls. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Scalloped .,  salmon. 

Potato  salad.  Cold  rolls. 

Angel-food  cake.  Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Vealettes.  Creamed  corn. 

Eggplant  baked  with  cheese. 

Peach  sponge.  Coffee. 


Grapes— Grapes  should  be  rinsed  in  cold  water  and  then  ar- 
ranged in  a  pretty  basket.  Mrs.  L.  D.  Potter. 
Bowling  Green,  Ky. 


SUNDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 
Bacon  fraze.        Chile  sauce. 
Lyonnaise  potatoes.        Baking  powder  biscuit. 
Coffee. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  457 


LUNCHEON. 

Fried  apples  with  brown  bread. 

Radnor  potatoes.  Roll  jelly  cake. 

Chocolate. 

DINNER. 

Fillet  of  beef  with  mushroom  sauce. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Mixed  pickles. 

Scalloped  parsnips. 

Peach  cream.  Coffee. 


Bacon  Fraze — Beat  four  eggs  into  a  batter,  with  one-half 
teacupful  of  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  flour;  fry  some  thin 
slices  of  bacon  and  dip  them  in  it;  lay  the  bacon  in  the  frying 
pan;  pour  the  batter  over  it,  and  when  both  sides  are  well 
browned  lay  on  a  heated  dish  and  serve. 

Fried  Apples — Peel  apples,  cut  into  eighths,  taking  out  the 
seeds  and  cores  carefully  from  each  piece.  Heat  some  drippings 
in  a  frying  pan;  coat  the  apples  lightly  with  flour,  and  fry  to  a 
pale  brown;  drain  off  the  fat  from  each  piece,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  pile  on  a  hot  dish.  If  you  like  you  may  mix  a  little 
cinnamon  with  the  sugar.  Use  only  tart  apples.  Serve  with 
slices  of  brown  bread. 

Roll  Jelly  Cake — One  cup  sifted  flour,  one  of  granulated  sugar, 
three  eggs,  one  large  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Stir  quick- 
ly; pour  into  dripping  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Turn  on  a 
clean  white  cloth,  wrung  out  of  water;  spread  with  jelly  and 
roll  by  raising  the  cloth  with  the  cake  and  your  cake  will  be  a 
success. 

Fillet  of  Beef — Take  about  two  or  two  and  a  half  pounds  of 
fillet.  After  it  is  trimmed  and  larded  put  into  a  small  baking 
pan  in  the  bottom  of  which  are  some  chopped  pieces  of  pork  and 
beef  suet;  sprinkle  some  salt  and  pepper  over  it  and  a  half-pint 
of  hot  stock.    Baste  often;    cook  a  full  half-hour  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mushroom  Sauce — Take  two  teacupfuls  of  stock;  thicken  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  mixed; 
add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  few  dashes  of  pepper.  Fry 
six  or  eight  mushrooms  in  butter;  add  to  the  thickened  stock  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  the  mushrooms.  Simmer  a  few 
minutes  and  pour  over  the  beef. 

Mixed  Pickles — One  gallon  cucumbers,  cut  small;  one  gallon 
green  tomatoes,  quartered;  half  a  gallon  of  onions,  steamed; 
two  heads  of  cauliflower,  steamed;  half  dozen  green  peppers. 
Scald  in  strong  brine;    let  stand  one  or  two  days. 

Dressing — One  gallon  cider  vinegar,  twelve  tablespoonfuls  of 
mustard  or  one  jug  of  French  mustard,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  turmeric  powder,  one  large  cup  of  flour,  wet 
with  a  little  cold  vinegar;  put  into  boiling  vinegar,  boil  five  min- 
utes and  put  on  the  thoroughly  drained  pickles.     These  are  the 


458  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK   BOOK!. 

finest  mixed  pickles  I  ever  made;  the  turmeric  powder  gives  it  a 
yellow  color.  If  string  beans  are  liked,  put  in  two  quarts  of 
steamed  ones. 

Peach  Cream — Whip  one  pint  of  sweet  cream  to  a  stiff  froth, 
laying  it  on  a  sieve.  Pare  one  dozen  large  peaches  and  boil  them 
with  half  a  pound  of  sugar.  When  they  reach  the  condition  of 
marmalade  press  them  through  a  colander.  Take  half  a  box  of 
gelatine,  which  has  been  soaked  an  hour  in  half  a  cupful  of  water 
in  a  warm  place  near  the  stove,  and  add  a  tumberful  of  good 
cream.  Stir  it  thoroughly  to  make  it  smooth,  and  when  it  is 
about  to  harden  add  the  whipped  cream,  stirring  lightly  in  till  it 
is  well  mixed,  then  put  it  into  a  mold  and  set  on  the  ice  or  in  a 
cool  place.  A  pretty  garnish  is  to  arrange  halves  or  quarters  of 
fresh  peaches  around  it.     This  is  a  very  dainty  dessert. 

Mrs.  Jane  M.  Hammer. 

No.  35  Schuyler  Street,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 


MONDAY,  OCTOBER  THE   FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  quinces. 

Fish  cakes.  Delicate  cornbread. 

Sliced  tomatoes.        Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Thinly  sliced  cold  roast  beef  with  grape  catchup. 

Maryland  biscuits.  Peach  pie. 

Tea  or  chocolate. 

DINNER. 

Roast  veal  with  grape  jelly. 

Baked  sweet  potatoes.  Celery. 

Stuffed  tomatoes. 

Baked  apple  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Baked  Quinces — Select  six  good,  ripe  quinces,  wipe  dry  and 
set  in  oven  to  bake.  When  done  strip  off  the  skins,  sift  powdered 
sugar  over  them  and  serve  with  cream.    They  are  excellent. 

Delicate  Cornbread — One  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  level  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda;  or  one  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  ohe  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Stir  in  white  meal  enough  to  make  a  batter  the  consist- 
ency of  sponge  cake.    Bake  twenty  minutes  by  quick  fire. 

Grape  Catchup — Wash  and  stew  five  pounds  of  grapes  over  a 
slow  fire  until  soft.  Then  strain  through  a  sieve  and  add  two 
and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.'  459 

tablespoonful  of  allspice,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  one 
tablespoonful  of  pepper,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  one 
pint  of  vinegar.  Boil  until  a  little  thick,  and  bottle.  Splendid  for 
cold  meats. 

Peach  Pie — Line  a  pie-pan  with  a  rich  paste.  Peel,  halve,  and 
seed  peaches  enough  to  fill  the  pan.  Then  sprinkle  over  the  pie 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  fill  up  with  thick 
sweet  cream  and  bake  till  done — about  half  an  hour. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes — Select  six  good-sized,  firm  tomatoes,  cut  a 
slice  from  one  end,  scoop  out  the  inside  and  fill  with  dressing 
made  as  follows:  One  pint  of  finely  chopped  bread  crumbs,  one 
small  onion  chopped  fine,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Bake  until 
they  are  soft,  but  do  not  lose  their  shape,  and  serve  with  bits  of 
parsley. 

Baked  Apple  Pudding — The  yolks  of  four  eggs,  six  large  pip- 
pins grated,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar, 
the  juice  and  half  the  peel  of  one  lemon.  Beat  sugar  and  butter 
to  cream,  stir  in  yolks  and  lemon  with  the  grated  apple.  Pour 
in  deep  pudding  dish  to  bake.  Grate  little  nutmeg  over  the  top. 
Eat  cold  with  cream.  Mrs.  Kate  Gunnell 

Paxton,  Keith  County,  Neb. 


TUESDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Nutmeg  melon. 

Cracked  wheat,  with  cream. 

Croquettes. 

Hot  biscuit.        Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Creamed  potatoes  with  grated  cheese. 
Boston  brown  bread. 
Baked  apples.  Tea. 

DINNER. 

Meat  pie. 

Scalloped  salsify.        Browned  sweet  potatoes. 

Tomato  salad. 

Prune  souffle. 

Cheese  balls.        Coffee. 


Croquettes — One  pint  of  meat,  ground  or  chopped  very  fine 
— ground  is  best.  Cold  roast  or  pieces  of  left-over  steak  are  ex- 
cellent for  this  purpose.  Add  to  the  meat  a  little  chopped  cel- 
ery, one-half  of  a  small  onion,  chopped  fine;    some  minced  par- 


460  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

sley  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Put  into  a  pan  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Set  on  the  stove 
and  stir  until  melted.  Add  gradually  three-fourths  cup  of  rich  milk, 
next  add  three-fourths  cup  of  stock.  Stir  until  the  mixture  is  the 
consistency  of  thick  cream.  Pour  this  over  the  seasoned  meat;  mix 
thoroughly  and  set  aside  until  cold.  When  used  for  breakfast  let 
it  stand  mixed  over  night.  When  thoroughly  cold,  mold  with 
the  hands  into  any  desired  shape.  Roll  in  cracker  crumbs;  then 
in  well-beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  drop  into  boil- 
ing fat,  a  few  at  a  time,  until  rich-brown  color  is  obtained.  This 
is  an  economic,  delicious  breakfast  dish. 

Creamed  Potatoes,  with  Cheese — Peel  five  ordinary-sized  po- 
tatoes and  cut  into  small  cubes.  Boil  until  tender;  pour  off 
the  water  and  season  with  a  generous  half-cup  of  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  half-teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper. 
Cover  over  with  grated  cheese.  Set  in  the  oven  to  brown,  and 
serve  quickly. 

Scalloped  Salsify,  or  Oyster  Plant— Boil  the  salsify  till  ten- 
der; peel  and  cut  crosswise  in  slices  half  an  inch  in  thickness. 
Grease  the  bottom  of  a  baking-dish  and  cover  with  the  salsify. 
Sprinkle  over  this  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter.  Add  a 
layer  of  cracker  crumbs;  then  a  layer  of  salsify,  seasoned  as  be- 
fore. Let  the  thin  top  layer  be  of  cracker  crumbs.  Pour  over 
milk  enough  to  fairly  cover  it  and  bake. 

Tomato  Salad — Select  medium-sized  ripe  tomatoes.  Peel 
carefully  and  scoop  out  the  center.  Set  on  ice  to  chill.  When 
ready  to  serve  fill  the  cavity  with  chopped  celery  and  chopped 
nuts  (not  too  fine).  Cover  with  a  tablespoonful  of  salad  dress- 
ing. Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  or  sprigs  of  parsley  or  the  ends  of 
the  celery. 

Prune  Souffle — Steam  eighteen  prunes  till  soft;  remove  the 
stones  and  chop  very  fine.  Add  to  this  one  cup  of  pulverized 
sugar.  Have  beaten  very  stiff  the  whites  of  eight  eggs.  Add  this 
to  the  fruit  and  flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract. 
Butter  a  baking-dish  and  bake  in  a  very  cool  oven  for  thirty  min- 
utes.   Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Cheese  Balls — To  one  cup  of  grated  stale  cheese  add  one- 
third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  red  pepper  and  a  pinch 
of  celery  salt.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff;  mix  together. 
Mold  with  the  hands  into  balls  the  size  of  walnuts.  Drop  two 
at  a  time  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  lard.  With  a  silver  fork  or  wire 
spoon  keep  the  balls  constantly  in  motion;  if  allowed  to  rest  on 
the  bottom  of  the  kettle  they  will  pull  apart  and  stick.  A  mo- 
ment is  sufficient  time  to  brown  them  if  the  lard  is  boiling. 
Place  on  ordinary  wrapping  paper  for  an  instant,  and  then  serve 
piping  hot  with  coffee.  Miss  Florence  Clayton. 

No.  616  South  28th  Street,  Omaha,  Neb. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  461 

WEDNESDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Oyster  saute.  Lyonnaise  potatoes. 

Graham  griddle  cakes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Fiiiet  of  tongue.  Potato  salad. 

Corn  bread. 

Jelly  fritters.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Gumbo   soup. 

Baked  mutton  cutlets.  Scalloped  potatoes. 

Parsnip  balls. 

Lemon  sponge  cake.  Compote  of  pears 

Coffee. 


Oyster  Saute — Two  dozen  large,  or  three  dozen  small  oysters; 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  four  of  fine  cracker  crumbs.  Let 
the  oysters  drain  in  the  colander.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  roll  in  the  crumbs.  Have  the  butter  very  hot  in  a  frying-pan 
and  put  in  enough  of  the  oysters  to  cover  the  bottom  ©f  the  pan. 
Fry  crisp  and  brown,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  Serve  on  hot, 
crisp  toast. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes — Take  eight  good-sized  cold-boiled  pota- 
toes. Slice  them  endwise,  making  them  like  dice.  Heat  some 
good  drippings  in  a  frying-pan,  fry  in  it  one  small  onion,  chopped 
fine,  until  it  begins  to  change  color  and  look  yellow.  Put  in  the 
potatoes,  sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  stir  well  and  cook 
about  five  minutes,  taking  care  not  to  break  them.  They  must 
not  brown.  Before  taking  up  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  minced 
parsley.  Drain  dry  by  shaking  in  a  heated  colander.  Serve  very 
hot. 

Graham  Griddle  Cakes — Two  cupfuls  of  graham,  one  of  flour, 
two  and  one-half  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  two  eggs.  Let  half  the  milk  come  to  a  boil.  Pour  on  the 
graham  and  stir  until  perfectly  smooth;  then  add  the  cold  milk 
and  set  away  to  cool.  Mix  the  other  dry  ingredients  with  the 
flour  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add,  with  the  eggs  well  beaten,  to 
the  graham  and  milk.    Fry  like  griddle  cakes. 

Fillet  of  Tongue — Cut  cold-boiled  tongue  in  pieces  about  four 
inches  long,  two  wide  and  half  an  inch  thick;  dip  in  melted  butter 
and  flour.    For  eight  fillets  put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  the 


462  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

frying-pan,  and  when  hot  put  in  the  tongue.  Brown  on  both  sides. 
Take  up  and  put  one  more  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  the  pan  and 
then  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Stir  until  dark  brown;  then 
add  one  cupful  of  stock  or  water,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  parsley 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  or  one  teaspoonful  of  vine- 
gar. Boil  up  once  and  pour  it  around  the  tongue,  which  has  been 
dished  on  thin  strips  of  toast.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. 
At  the  last  moment  stir  into  the  sauce  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
pickles  or  capers. 

Jelly  Fritters — Make  a  batter  of  two  eggs,  a  pint  of  milk  and  a 
pint  bowl  of  flour;  beat  it  light.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  or 
beef  drippings  in  a  frying-pan,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  making 
it  boiling  hot.  Put  in  the  batter  by  the  large  spoonful,  not  too 
close.  When  one  side  is  a  delicate  brown,  turn  the  other.  When 
done,  place  them  on  a  dish  with  a  doiley  over  it.  Put  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  jelly  on  each. 

Gumbo  Soup — Try  out  the  fat  of  a  slice  of  bacon,  drain  it  off, 
and  in  it  fry  the  slices  of  a  large  onion  brown.  Peel  and  cut  up 
two  quarts  of  fresh  tomatoes,  and  cut  thin  one  quart  of  okra. 
Put  all  together  with  a  little  chopped  parsley  (one  teaspoonful)  in 
a  stew  kettle  with  three  quarts  of  hot  broth  of  any  kind.  Let  it 
cook  slowly  for  three  hours.  Season  with  a  scant  tablespoonful 
of  salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  In  the  winter  a  large 
can  of  tomatoes  and  a  can  of  okra  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
fresh  vegetables. 

Baked  Mutton  Cutlets — Prepare  the  cutlets  as  for  frying  by 
dipping  them  in  beaten  egg  and  rolled  cracker  crumbs.  Lay  them 
in  a  dripping  pan  with  very  little  water  at  the  bottom.  Sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  baste  often  with  butter  and  water.  Make 
a  little  brown  gravy  and  turn  over  them  when  they  are  served. 

Compote  of  Pears — Select  flrm  fruit,  not  too  ripe.  Wash  them 
and  cut  them  into  halves  lengthwise,  and  carefully  take  out  the 
core.  Make  a  sirup  in  the  proportion  of  two  cups  of  sugar  to  one 
of  water.  When  the  sirup  is  boiling,  put  in  the  pieces  of  pears 
and  cook  them  till  tender.  Take  them  out  with  a  skimmer  and 
arrange  them  in  a  pyramid  form,  the  stem  end  up,  on  a  pretty 
dish.  Slice  an  unpeeled  lemon  very  thin  and  put  in  the  sirup.  Let 
the  sirup  cook  until  it  thickens.  Put  the  lemon  slices  over  the 
fruit  and  pour  the  sirup  over  all  by  the  spoonful  when  a  little 
cool.  Place  the  compote  where  it  will  become  perfectly  cold,  and 
serve.  Mrs.  John  Buie. 

No.  170  Harding  Avenue,  Chicago. 


THURSDAY,  OCTOBER   THE  SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  peaches  and  cream. 

Ragout  of  liver.  Graham  biscuit. 

Coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  463 

LUNCHEON. 

Chipped  beef  with  tomatoes. 

Cucumber  pickle  (fresh).  Bread  and  butter. 

Peach  flummery.         Cake. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Virginia  stew.  Boiled  rice. 

Grape  sherbet. 

Cake. 


Ragout  of  Liver — Heat  three  teaspoonfuls  of  nice  dripping  in 
a  frying-pan;  add  an  onion  sliced,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley  and  thrice  as  much  minced  bacon;  when  all  are  hissing 
hot  lay  in  one-half  of  a  liver  cut  in  pieces  as  long  and  wide  as  your 
middle  finger  and  fry  brown,  turning  often.  Take  out  the  liver 
and  keep  hot;  strain  the  gravy,  rinse  off  the  frying-pan  and  re- 
turn to  the  fire  with  the  gravy  and  an  even  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter worked  up  well  in  two  of  brown  flour.  Stir  until  you  have  a 
smooth  browned  cream;  thin  gradually  with  half  a  cupful  of 
boiling  water;  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  teaspoonful  of 
minced  pickle  and  a  scant  half-teaspoonful  of  curry  powder  wet 
with  cold  water.  Boil  sharply;  pour  over  the  liver;  set  over 
pan  of  boiling  water  closely  covered  for  ten  minutes  before 
serving. 

Chipped  Beef,  with  Tomatoes — Cut  up  five  tomatoes  and  dust 
over  with  flour;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  pan,  and 
when  melted  add  the  tomatoes,  stirring  smooth.  Let  cook  five 
minutes.  Have  half  a  pound  of  dry  beef  chipped  very  thin  (and 
if  not  too  salt  will  season  just  right);  add  to  the  tomatoes;  let 
simmer  gently  a  few  minutes  longer  and  serve. 

Cucumber  Pickle — Chop  three  cucumbers  fine,  add  a  piece  of 
a  red  pepper  the  size  of  a  silver  dollar,  also  chopped  fine;  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar;  mix  all  well  together.  This  will  keep  sev- 
eral days,  and  is  very  nice. 

Peach  Flummery — Pare  and  quarter  enough  ripe,  juicy  peaches 
to  make  a  pint,  put  on  to  stew  in  one  pint  of  water,  a  teacupful  of 
sugar;  let  cook  until  tender  without  breaking.  Mix  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  water  and  add  to  peaches, 
stirring  constantly.  Cook  five  minutes,  then  turn  into  a  mold 
and  set  away  to  cool.  Eat  with  cream  and  sugar,  if  more  is 
liked. 

Plain  Cake — One-half  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder; 
cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  beaten  eggs  and  salt; 
alternately  add  milk  and  flour  with  baking  powder.  Mix 
one     teaspoonful     of      cinnamon     and     three     of      pulverized 


464  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

sugar  and  sift  on  top.    Can  be  baked  in  dripping  pans  if  preferred. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Virginia  Stew— A  medium-sized  chicken,  cut  as  for  frying;  a 
potato  for  each  member  of  the  family,  two  ears  of  corn 
cut  from  the  cob,  a  generous  handful  of  lima  beans,  three 
nice  round  tomatoes,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  quarter  as  much 
pepper.  The  chicken  is  first  parboiled  and  then  the  vegetables 
added,  and  the  whole  simmered  an  hour  and  a  half  longer.  About 
a  quart  of  water  is  needed.  Serve  in  a  deep  platter.  The  only 
vegetable  used  with  this  stew  is  a  dish  of  boiled  rice.  This  is  a 
Virginia  concoction,  and  very  palatable,  too. 

Grape  Sherbet— Lay  a  square  of  cheesecloth  over  a  bowl;  put 
in  a  pound  of  ripe  Concord  grapes;  mash  very  thoroughly  with  a 
wooden  masher.  Squeeze  out  all  the  juice;  add  an  equal  amount 
of  cold  water,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  sugar  to  make  it  very 
sweet.  Freeze  as  usual.  This  is  the  most  delightful  of  all  water 
ices.    There  will  be  sufficient  cake  left  from  luncheon. 

Mrs.  P.  M.  Adams. 

No.  409  South  Paulina  Street,  Chicago. 


FRIDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  EIGHTH. 


"  Dinner  may  be  pleasant, 
So  may  social  tea; 
But  yet  methinks  the  breakfast 
Is  best  of  all  the  three." 


BREAKFAST. 

Cantaloupe. 

Mush.  Fried  ham  and  eggs. 

Waffles.  Sirup. 

Hot  coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Basket  of  choice  mixed  fruit— pears,  peaches  and  grape; 

Cold  boiled  beef,  sliced,  Chile  sauce. 

Baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Graham  loaf  sliced.  Banana  pie. 

Hot  tea. 


DINNER. 

Clam  soup. 

Steamed  fish.  Scotch  scones. 

Irish  potatoes  mashed. 

Fresh  cucumber  pickles. 

Peach  custard.  Hot  coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  465 

Fried  Ham  and  Eggs — Cut  slices  of  Ijam  quite  thin;  cut  off 
the  rind  or  skin;  put  them  into  a  frying-pan,  turning  them  often 
until  crisp,  taking  care  not  to  burn  the  slices;  three  minutes  wiU 
cook  them  v/ell.  Dish  them  on  a  hot  platter;  then  turn  off  the 
grease,  rinse  out  the  pan  and  put  back  the  clear  grease  to  fry  the 
eggs.  Break  the  eggs  separately  in  a  saucer,  that  in  case  a  bad 
one  may  be  among  them  it  may  not  mix  with  the  rest.  Slip  each 
egg  gently  into  the  frying-pan;  do  not  turn  them  while  frying, 
but  keep  pouring  some  of  the  hot  lard  over  them  with  the  kitchen 
spoon;  this  will  do  them  sufficiently  on  the  upper  side.  They 
will  be  done  enough  in  about  three  minutes.  The  white  must 
retain  its  transparency  so  that  the  yolk  will  be  seen  through  it; 
when  done,  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  drain  off  the  lard,  and 
if  any  part  of  the  white  is  discolored  or  ragged,  trim  it  off.  Lay 
a  fried  egg  upon  each  slice  of  the  ham,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 
Salt  will  hardly  be  needed,  and  if  pepper  is  used  a  slight  sprinkle 
will  be  sufficient. 

Chile  Sauce — To  nine  large,  ripe  tomatoes  and  three  green 
peppers  add  one  onion  chopped  fine,  two  cupfuls  of  vinegar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  of  salt.  Steam  one  hour;  then 
add  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  of  allspice  and  one  of  cloves. 

Banana  Pie — Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  to  a  cream  with 
one-half  cupful  of  sugar;  add  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  sweet 
milk.  Peel  and  mash  two  large  bananas  or  three  small  ones; 
sift  them  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients.  Bake  with  one  crust, 
and  when  done  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  two  whites  of 
eggs  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.    Serve  cold. 

Steamed  Pish — Secure  the  tail  of  the  fish  in  its  mouth  so  as 
to  curve  the  body  in  a  circle;  pour  over  it  a  half  pint  of  vinegar 
seasoned  with  a  little  pepper  and  a  dessert  spoon  of  salt;  let  it 
stand  an  hour  in  a  cool  place;  pour  off  the  vinegar,  and  put  fish 
in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water  and  steam  twenty  minutes,  or 
longer  for  a  large  fish.  When  the  meat  easily  separates  from  the 
bone  it  is  done.  Drain  well  and  serve  on  a  white  napkin,  neatly 
folded  and  placed  on  the  platter;  decorate  the  napkin  around  the 
fish  with  sprigs  of  curled  parsley. 

Scotch  Scones — Thoroughly  mix,  while  dry,  one  quart  of  sifted 
flour,  loosely  measured,  with  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder;  then  rub  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  butter  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Be  sure  the  butter  is  well  worked  in;  add 
sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  very  soft  paste.  Roll  out  the  paste 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  using  plenty  of  flour  on  the 
paste-board  and  rolling-pin.  Cut  into  triangular  pieces,  each  side 
about  four  inches  long.  Flour  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  biscuit 
tin  and  place  the  pieces  on  it.  Bake  immediately  in  a  quick  oven, 
from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  When  done  brush  over  with 
sweet  milk. 

Peach  Custard — Line  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  with  pared 
and  halved  free-stone  peaches,  cavities  up.  Fill  these  with  soft 
sugar.    Make  a  rich  cornstarch  custard,  stir  over  the  fire  until 


466  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

quite   thick   and   pour  over   the  peaches.     Cover   with  a   thick 
meringue,  which  lightly  brown.    Serve  very  hot. 

Cornstarch  Custard — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  to  one 
quart  of  milk;  mix  the  cornstarch  with  a  small  quantity  of  the 
milk  and  flavor  it;  beat  up  two  eggs.  Heat  remainder  of  the  milk 
to  near  boiling,  then  add  the  mixed  cornstarch,  the  eggs,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  little  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Boil 
two  minutes,   stirring  it  briskly. 

Sweet  Pickled  Pears — Boil  together  for  fifteen  minutes  one 
pint  of  cider  vinegar,  one  and  three-fourths  pounds  of  granulated 
sugar.  Tie  in  a  small  piece  of  cheese  cloth  half  a  dozen  whole 
cloves,  one  dozen  whole  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cin- 
namon and  one  saltspoonfui  of  ground  mace,  and  a  small  piece  of 
ginger  root.  Put  with  the  vinegar  and  boil.  Select  fine,  large 
seckel  pears,  pare  and  remove  the  stems;  then  put  into  the  vine- 
gar as  many  as  will  be  nicely  covered.  Let  all  boil  gently  until 
the  pears  look  clear,  then  drain  off  the  vinegar,  put  the  pears  into, 
jars,  reheat  the  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  pears.  Seal  if  desired 
for  winter  use.  This  is  a  delicious  pickle  if  properly  and  care- 
fully made.  ■  Mrs.  Maude  K.  Cameron. 

Greenfield,  Green  County,  111. 


SATURDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes.  Cracked  wheat. 

Scalloped  eggs.  Bread  pancakes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Noodled  ham.  Brown  bread  sandwiches. 

Fried  peaches.  Caramel  cake. 

Oolong  tea. 


DINNER. 

Veal  pot-pie  with  potatoes.  Celery. 

Sweet  potato  salad. 

Wafers.  Peach  ambrosia. 

Coffee. 


Scalloped  Eggs— Butter  a  pie-plate  and  sprinkle  over  it  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Break  five  eggs  carefully  and  place  on 
the  crumbs;  sprinkle  over  them  a  small  half-teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  cover  with  another  layer 
of  crumbs;  pour  over  the  top  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  eight  minutes. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  467 

Bread  Pancakes  —  Remove  the  crust  from  stale  bread  and 
break  in  crumbs,  enougli  to  make  one  pint;  dampen  in  cold  water 
and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  one  beaten  egg,  one 
pint  of  sour  milk,  two  scant  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  warm  water,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half 
a  cupful  of  flour.     Bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Noodled  Ham — Make  the  noodles  by  beating  one  egg  with  a 
saltspoon  of  salt,  till  very  light;  add  as  much  flour  as  it  v/ill  re- 
quire to  make  a  very  stiff  dough  (eggs  vary  in  size,  so  an  exact 
amount  cannot  be  given),  roll  very  thin  and  cut  in  narrow  strips; 
roll  these  between  the  hands  till  round  like  "shoe-strings,"  and 
break  in  pieces  an  inch  or  two  in  length;  when  dry  put  two  cup- 
fuls  of  them  in  a  stew-pan  and  pour  over  enough  boiling  water  to 
just  cover  them;  let  boil  ten  minutes.  Chop  enough  cold  boiled 
ham  to  make  one  large  coffee  cupful.  (In  slicing  ham  one  can 
save  all  the  crumbs  and  small  pieces  that  are  trimmed  from  the 
bone.)  Butter  an  earthen  dish;  put  in  a  layer  of  the  noodles 
(after  carefully  draining  them),  then  a  layer  of  the  ham,  another 
layer  of  noodles,  finishing  with  ham  for  top  layer.  Beat  two  eggs, 
and  add  one  coffee  cupful  of  cream  or  rich  milk  and  pour  over  the 
top;  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  grated  bread  crumbs  and  little 
dots  of  butter.  Bake  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  baked. 

Brown  Bread  Sandwiches — Cut  small  round  loaves  of  brown 
bread  in  very  thin  slices;  spread  with  butter  and  a  sprinkling  of 
grated  cheese;    put  two  slices  together  and  cut  in  two. 

Pried  Peaches — Pare  and  cut  in  halves  five  peaches;  put  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  place  the  peaches  in  with 
the  pit  side  down.  When  they  begin  to  brown  turn  and  fill  the  holes 
with  sugar;    cook  till  tender.     Serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

Caramel  Cake  —  Rub  one  scant  half-cupful  of  butter  to  a 
cream;  gradually  add  two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar;  mix  till 
white  and  creamy;  add  one  cupful  of  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  sifted 
fiour  with  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.    Bake  in  three  layers. 

For  the  caramel  filling  take  two  cupfuls  of  "yellow  C"  sugar, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  cupful  of  thin  cream  or  rich 
milk,  though  cream  is  better.  Put  all  in  a  granite  stew-pan  and 
cook  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  when  thick  remove  from 
the  range  and  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla.  Stir  till  cool.  Put 
between  layers  and  on  top.  A  white  frosting  may  be  put  over  all 
if  liked. 

Veal  Pot-Pie  with  Potatoes — Get  a  knuckle  or  brisket  of  veal 
weighing  about  three  pounds;  wash  and  put  in  a  granite  kettle, 
with  enough  boiling  water  to  more  than  cover  it.  Watch  care- 
fully and  remove  all  scum  as  it  rises;  when  nearly  tender  put  in 
a  large  spoonful  of  butter,  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  (If  the  salt  is  put  in  at  first  it  toughens 
it.)  When  nearly  done  put  in  five  potatoes  cut  in  halves.  Make 
a  batter  of  one  and  a  half  pints  of  fiour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  large  cupful  of  sweet 


468  THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

milk.  Drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  either  on  the  meat  or  in  a 
steamer  placed  over  the  kettle.  Do  not  remove  the  cover  for 
thirty  minutes,  for  if  the  air  strikes  them  they  will  fall.  Take  up 
the  meat,  potatoes  and  dumplings  on  a  large  platter.  Wet  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  flour  in  a  little  cold  water  and  rub  till  smooth  and 
stir  into  the  gravy;  add  another  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  cook 
till  it  thickens.  Pour  over  the  pot-pie  and  send  to  the  table  at 
once. 

Peach  Ambrosia — Bake  a  small  sponge  cake  of  one-half  a  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder  sifted  in  one-half  a  cupful  of  flour;  stir  flour  in  lightly 
and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  water  just  before  putting  in  the 
oven.  Bake  in  a  square  tin.  When  cold  take  out  on  a  platter  or 
ice-cream  dish  and  cover  v/ith  thinly  sliced  peaches,  a  small  tea- 
spoonful of  sugar  and  a  cupful  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Abbott. 

Independence,    Mo. 


SUNDAY,  OCTOBER  THE   TENTH. 
(A  day  with  some  Florida  dishes.) 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 

Hominy,  with  sugar  and  milk. 

Broiled  mackerel. 

Southern  spoon  cornbread.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Fricasseed  eggs.  Buttered  toast. 

Pineapple  pudding.        Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Eggplant  soup. 

Virginia  smothered  chicken,  cream  gravy. 

Scalloped  sweet  potatoes. 

Stewed  okra,  with  tomatoes.  Cabbage  salad. 

Orange  roly-poly,  lemon  sauce.      Coffee. 


Hominy  Porridge — The  hominy  used  in  Florida  is  the  kind 
called  "pearl  hominy;"  it  is  the  staple  breakfast  dish  in  the  south. 
Stir  one  cupful  of  hominy  into  one  quart  of  freshly  boiling  water, 
first  put  in  the  water  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boil  one 
hour.     Serve  with  milk. 

Broiled  Mackerel— Soak  salt  mackerel  over  night,  drain,  wipe 
dry,  place  on  a  greased  broiling  iron,  turn  until  done  on  both 
sides.    Take  up,  dredge  with  pepper  and  pour  over  melted  butter. 

Southern  Spoon  Cornbread— Pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water  over 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  469 

one  cupful  of  cornmeal  and  boil  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  one  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  one 
cupful  of  water,  one  cupful  of  milk,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a  slow 
oven.  Leave  in  dish  and  serve  with  a  spoon.  This  is  one  of  the 
best  of  cornbreads. 

Fricasseed  Eggs — Boil  six  eggs  hard,  cut  in  half  crosswise 
and  take  out  the  yolks.  Rub  these  to  a  paste  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  finely  minced  ham  or  cold  fowl  (if  the  latter  is 
used  add  a  half- teaspoonful  of  salt),  one  tablespoonful  minced 
parsley,  one  teaspoonful  of  melted  iDutter  and  a  saltspoonful  of 
made  mustard.  Work  well  together  and  fill  the  whites  with  it, 
setting  them  close  to  each  other  in  a  deep-covered  dish,  the  open 
ends  up.  Heat  to  boiling  one  cupful  of  veal  or  chicken  broth, 
with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  parsley,  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
quarter  of  the  same  of  pepper,  and  lastly  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream.  Boil  up,  pour  over  the  eggs,  let  them  stand  five  minutes 
closely  covered  before  sending  to  the  table.  The  dish  is  "delect- 
able." 

Pineapple  Pudding — One  cupful  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one-half 
cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  cream,  one  pineapple,  grated. 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  then  the  pineapple  and  cream  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites 
whipped  in  lightly.    Bake  with  undercrust  only. 

Eggplant  Soup — Pare  and  cut  into  small  pieces  two  of  the 
"eggs;"  let  them  lie  in  salted  water  for  an  hour;  remove  from 
this  to  the  soup  kettle,  adding  two  quarts  of  water,  and  boil  un- 
til tender.  Thicken  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed  into 
the  same  quantity  of  butter,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  cupful  of  cream  (milk  will  answer). 
Serve  with  crackers. 

Virginia  Smothered  Chicken — Split  a  tender  chicken  down 
the  back;  season  it  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  tea- 
spoonful of  pepper;  put  it  into  a  dripping-pan  with  a  cupful  of 
hot  water,  and  place  it  in  the  oven  until  it  is  tender.  As  soon 
as  it  begins  to  brown,  make  a  paste  of  two  tablespoonfuls  each 
of  butter  and  flour  and  spread  over  the  chicken,  and  baste  it 
every  ten  minutes  with  the  drippings  in  the  pan  until  brown. 
Set  the  pan  containing  the  drippings  over  the  fire;  pour  into  it 
a  cupful  of  rich  milk;  stir  until  it  boils;  season  with  saltspoonful 
of  salt,  one-half  of  pepper;  pour  this  gravy  over  the  chicken  and 
serve  it  hot. 

Scalloped  Sweet  Potatoes — Boil  three  sweet  potatoes  in  slight- 
ly salted  water,  peel  and  slice  lengthwise.  Arrange  a  layer  of 
the  slices  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  baking-pan;  spread  with  but- 
ter and  sugar;  put  in  more  potatoes,  butter  and  sugar  until  the 
pan  is  full.  Set  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown.  Serve  in  the  dish 
in  which  the  potatoes  are  cooked. 

Stewed  Okra,  with  Tomatoes — Wash  one  dozen  pods  of  okra 
and  slice  them  thin.  Peel  three  tomatoes  and  cut  into  slices; 
put  in  a  granite  sauce-pan;    add   a   large   saltspoonful  of  salt; 


470  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

cover  and  set  over  the  fire  to  simmer  slowly  for  half  an  hour. 
Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  a  dash  of  cayenne,  and  serve. 

Orange  Roly-Poly — This  is  always  hailed  with  delight,  the 
"windfalls"  of  the  orange  groves  being  called  into  requisition. 
Make  a  soft  dough  with  one  pint  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of 
lard,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  mixed  with  sufficient  cold  water  to 
make  it  stick  together.  Roll  in  an  oblong  sheet  and  lay  thickly 
over  it  three  oranges  that  have  been  peeled,  sliced  and  seeded; 
sprinkle  liberally  with  white  sugar;  scatter  a  teaspoonful  of  the 
grated  yellow  rind  over  all  and  roll  up  closely,  folding  the  ends 
to  secure  the  sirup,  and  tie  in  a  well-floured  cloth,  leaving  plenty 
of  room  for  it  to  swell.  Put  it  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and 
boil  two  hours,  or  it  may  be  steamed  two  hours  and  a  half.  Serve 
with  lemon  sauce. 

Lemon  Sauce — Beat  together  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  pour  over  it 
one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Stir  to  a  smooth  liquid  and  add  the 
juice  of  one  lemon.  Alice  Johnson. 

No.  207  Capitol  street,  Charleston,  W.  Va. 


MONDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  ELEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Scrambled  eggs.  Bacon. 

Corn  bread.  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Scalloped  whitefish. 

Cucumbers.  Bread  and  butter. 

Baked  pears. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  barley. 

Baked  ham.  Spinach. 

Sweet  potatoes  in  molasses. 

Rennet  custard. 


Grapes  should  be  laid  in  very  cold  water  for  a  little  time 
before  serving;  drained  and  piled  up  prettily  in  some  odd  dish. 

Corn  Bread— Put  one  pint  of  cornmeal  into  a  bowl;  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brown 
sugar  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  then  put  into  the  center 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  pour  over  the  butter  a  half- 
pint  of  scalded  milk.  Beat  up  well;  then  add  another  half-pint 
of  cold  milk  and  two  even  teaspoonfuls   of  baking  powder,   a 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  471 

small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  two  eggs,  well  beaten.  Pour  into 
greased  gem  pans  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  thirty  minutes. 

Coffee — Put  into  a  French  coffee-pot  one  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful  of  ground  coffee  for  each  person;  pour  over  it  very  slowly 
one  cupful  of  water,  boiling  hot,  for  each  spoonful  of  coffee. 

Baked  Pears — Fill  a  moderate-sized  baking  dish  with  whole 
pears;  wipe  them,  but  do  not  remove  the  stems.  Pour  around 
them  one  large  cup  of  boiling  water,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
light-brown  sugar,  bake  slowly  until  the  pears  are  tender,  bast- 
ing frequenty  with  the  liquor.  Serve  cold,  with  sugar  and  cream, 
if  desired. 

Cream  of  Barley — Scald  two  tablespoonfuls  of  barley,  drain, 
cover  with  fresh  boiling  v/ater  and,  boil  three  hours.  Strain, 
Put  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  pmt  of  veal  stock  on  to  boil;  add 
the  barley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  two  yolks  lightly; 
pour  them  into  soup  tureen,  pour  over  the  boiling  soup  and  serve 
at  once. 

Baked  Ham — Wash  the  ham  well  in  cold  water.  Put  into 
large  boiler  nearly  filled  with  cold  water,  add  six  cloves  and  a 
bay  leaf.  Place  it  over  a  slow  fire,  that  it  may  heat  gradually. 
Simmer  gently  fifteen  minutes  to  every  pound,  skimming  care- 
fully from  time  to  time.  Allow  it  to  cool  in  the  liquor,  then  re- 
move the  rind  carefully.  Brush  it  over  with  a  beaten  egg  and 
sprinkle  with  bread-crumbs.  Place  in  a  quick  oven  for  about 
fifteen  minutes  to  brown.     Serve  hot. 

Sweet  Potatoes  in  Molasses — Boil  two  pounds  of  sweet  pota- 
toes until  they  can  be  peeled,  then  put  them  into  a  pan  or  dish, 
spread  a  little  butter,  then  a  little  molasses  over  each  one,  set 
in  the  oven  and  brown  a  light  brown.  These  are  delicious  and 
quite  worth  a  trial. 

Rennet  Custard — Sweeten  and  flavor  with  vanilla  one  quart 
of  sweet  milk;  put  into  pan  or  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served, 
grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top,  lastly  stir  gently  one  table- 
spoonful  of  rennet  through  the  mixture,  stand  in  the  kitchen  until 
it  thickens,  v/hen  it  should  be  placed  in  the  ice-chest  until  very 
cold.  This  pudding  should  be  made  about  an  hour  and  a  half 
before  serving.  The  rennet  (liquid)  may  be  be  bought  of  a  drug- 
gist, 25  cents  a  bottle,  which,  if  kept  in  a  cool  place,  will  last  a 
great  while.  Sweetened  and  flavored  cream  as  a  sauce  is  of 
course  an  improvement.  Miss  Martha  Milson. 

52  Walton  place,  Chicago. 


TUESDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  TWELFTH. 

BREAKFAST. 

Delaware  grapes. 

vVheatlet,  cream  and  sugar.  Sally  Lunn. 

Eggs  in  bread  sauce. 

Coffee. 


472  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

LUNCHEON. 

Deviled  toast.  English  junket. 

Sponge  cake.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

French  tomato  soup. 

Vienna  steaks.  Celery  and  carrots. 

Apple  pudding,  a  la  Waldorf. 

Coffee. 


Eggs  in  Bread  Sauce — Slice  one  good-sized  Spanish  onion, 
pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  let  it  stand  five  minutes,  then 
drain  and  cover  onion  with  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  add  two  cloves 
and  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  simmer  half  an  hour.  Rub 
through  a  sieve,  pressing  through  as  much  of  the  onion  as  possi- 
ble. Put  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour 
in  a  sauce-pan,  and  when  melted  and  mixed  add  the  milk  and 
onion  and  stir  until  smooth;  add  half  a  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs, 
a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper, 
and  a  dash  of  mace;  turn  into  a  baking  dish,  slip  in  carefully  five 
eggs  and  put  in  a  very  hot  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set. 

Deviled  Toast — Use  whole  wheat  or  brown  bread  which  is  at 
least  one  day  old;  cut  in  thin  slices  and  toast  slowly  until  a 
golden  brown.  Spread  with  butter  to  each  tablespoonful  of  which 
has  been  added  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard, 
one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika  and  ten 
drops  of  onion  juice.  Dust  with  a  little  grated  cheese  and  set  in 
a  hot  oven  for  three  minutes. 

Junket — Place  a  quart  of  milk  on  the  stove  until  it  is  luke- 
warm, then  pour  into  some  pretty  dish,  sweeten  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  flavor  to  taste  with  essence  of 
vanilla,  lemon  or  strawberry,  then  add,  stirring  slightly,  three- 
quarters  of  a  tablespoonful  of  rennet.  Place  on  ice  or  in  a  cool 
place  until  cold. 

Tomato  Soup— One  quart  of  soup  stock,  two  cupfuls  of  to- 
iuato.  Cut  a  small  onion  in  pieces  and  fry  slightly.  Put  the  to- 
matoes and  soup  stock  and  onion  on  the  fire  together.  Add  one 
cupful  of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  a  tea- 
spoonful of  sugar  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Strain,  thicken 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  made  in  a  paste  with  water,  and 
serve  hot,  with  croutons. 

Vienna  Steaks— Take  one-half  of  a  pound  each  of  raw,  lean 
beef  and  veal,  trim  off  all  fat  and  gristle  and  chop  very  fine. 
Add  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  paprika,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  sv/eet  herbs, 
one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  one  of  chopped  onion. 
Stir  in  one  well-beaten  egg  and  set  aside  until  the  next  day; 
then  form  into  steaks  and  fry  quickly  in  butter.  Serve  on  a  hot 
platter,  with  mashed  potatoes  in  the  center  and  brov/n  gravy  in  a 
sauceboat. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  473 

Celery  and  Carrots — Cut  the  celery  into  short  pieces  and  the 
carrots  into  thin  slices;  have  the  same  amount  of  each.  Boil 
the  carrots  in  slightly  salted  water  until  tender,  then  drain. 
Scald  the  celery  in  another  dish;  add  the  carrots  and  half  a  pint 
of  sweet  milk.  Thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  stirred 
into  some  of  the  milk,  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  hutter;  bring  to  a  boil 
and  serve. 

Apple  Pudding — Peel,  core  and  slice  suflacient  apples  to  fill  a 
baking  dish,  butter  the  dish  thickly  and  put  in  the  apples  in 
layers,  alternating  them  with  stale  cake  crumbs  and  a  little 
melted  butter,  using  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  latter  to  a  pint  of 
apples.  Let  the  last  layer  be  a  thick  one  of  cake  crumbs;  put  in 
a  moderately  hot  oven  until  the  apples  are  tender,  then  beat  to- 
gether two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  (more  should 
be  used  if  apples  are  very  tart),  add  one  cupful  of  milk  and  pour 
over  the  apples.    Bake  a  rich  golden  color  and  serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Charles  Adams. 

No.  25  Union  street,  Hornellsville,  N.  Y. 


WEDNESDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  THIRTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Browned  apples  with  cream. 

Veal  patties.  Wheat  popovers. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Sliced  boiled  tongue. 

Stuffed  cucumbers. 

Scalloped  potatoes.  Bread  and  butter. 

Bananas.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Roast  beef,  browned  potatoes. 
Sweet  corn,  celery. 
Tomato  jelly.  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

Hot  crackers.       Peach  cobbler. 
Coffee. 


Browned  Apples — Select  five  sound,  sour,  juicy  apples;  peel 
and  quarter;  put  into  pudding  dish,  with  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  a  little  cinnamon  and  sugar  to  taste.  Bake  until  ten- 
der; serve  hot,  with  cream. 

Stuffed  Cucumbers — Select  one  dozen  very  large  green  cu- 
cumbers, cut  small  piece  from  one  end  and  remove  all  seeds; 
put  the  cucumbers  in  strong  salt  water  over  night.    Chop  six 


474  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

heads  of  celery,  six  green  tomatoes,  one  small  cabbage  and  three 
bell  peppers  very  fine;  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  salt, 
two  tablespoonfuls  mustard  seed,  and  vinegar  enough  to  mix  all 
together.  Wash  the  cucumbers  in  cold  water  and  fill  with  this 
dressing.  Fasten  the  top  of  cucumber  on  with  toothpicks.  Put 
into  jar  and  cover  with  boiling  vinegar.  These  are  delicious  with 
any  cold  meats  and  keep  all  winter. 

Peach  Cobbler — Peel  and  stone  enough  peaches  to  fill  a  pud- 
ding dish,  add  two  or  three  small  pieces  of  butter,  sprinkle  over 
all  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  cover  with  a  light  puff  paste  and  bake. 
This  is  especially  nice  served  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Nellie  F.  Pinto. 

No.  2545  California  street,  Omaha,  Neb. 


THURSDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  FOURTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Concord  grapes. 

Wheat  flakes  with  cream. 

Rissoles.  Tomato  toast. 

Graham  gems.  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Broiled  sardines  with  lettuce. 

Ham   pate.  Luncheon  potatoes. 

Wafers  of  white  and  brown  bread. 

Yellow  tomato  preserves. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Oyster  loaf.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Cauliflower  omelet. 

Mixed  pickles. 

Toasted  water  crackers. 

Cranberry  sauce.  Sand  tarts. 

Coffee. 


Broiled  Sardines — American  canned  sardines  will  answer 
very  nicely  for  this  and  are  much  less  expensive.  Place  the  fish 
on  broiler  (drained  of  all  oil),  broil  quickly  over  hot  fire.  Have 
a  toasted  bread  ready,  cut  as  nearly  the  size  of  fish  as  possible. 
Lay  fish  on  this  with  half-slice  of  lemon  to  each.  Serve  with  let- 
tuce and  vinegar. 

Ham  Pate— Chop  bits  of  broiled  ham  very  fine  (those  un- 
fit for  slicing).  To  this  add— for  one  pint  of  meat— one  cup  of 
bread   crumbs,  one   teaspoonful  white  pepper,   one   saltspoonful 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  475 

celery  salt,   one-half  cup   milk.    Mix,  fill  patty  pans  and  bake 
twenty  minutes. 

Luncheon  Potatoes — Six  large-sized  potatoes;  bake  until 
nearly  done;  remove  from  oven.  Cut  in  half,  remove  center  with 
a  spoon  and  add  to  it  one  hard-boiled  egg,  a  drop  or  two  of  onion 
juice,  one  teaspoonful  mixed  mustard.  Fill  skins  with  this  mix- 
ture, return  to  the  oven  and  cook  until  the  tops  are  brown. 

Tomato  Preserves — Select  sound,  yellow,  pear-shaped  to- 
matoes; wash  and  prick  with  a  needle  to  prevent  their  bursting. 
Put  their  weight  in  sugar  over  them.  Let  stand  over  night. 
Next  morning  add  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Boil  slowly 
until  the  fruit  is  clear  and  sirup  is  almost  candied.  Before  tak- 
ing up  add  to  each  pound  one  sliced  lemon,  rind  and  all,  and  one 
small  bit  of  ginger-root. 

Cauliflower  Omelets-One  cup  cold  boiled  cauliflower,  sauce 
included,  chopped  into  small  pieces;  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful 
cornstarch;  beat  eggs  thoroughly,  add  cauliflower  and  cook  as 
other  omelets.     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Sand  Tarts — One  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  molasses,  two  eggs 
(reserving  white  of  one),  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  cup 
brown  sugar,  three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 
Roll  out  thin,  glaze  with  white  of  egg,  sprinkle  with  granulated 
sugar,  and  when  baked  dot  with  bits  of  currant  jelly. 

Mildred  Douglas. 

No.  4211  St.  Lawrence  avenue,  Chicago. 


FRIDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  FIFTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Cream  of  wheat. 

Broiled  breast  of  lamb.  Hashed  potatoes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Mock  terrapin. 

Bread  and  butter  sandwiches. 

Baked  apples  with  cream.  Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Beef  tea.  Toasted  crackers. 

Baked  whitefish. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Stewed  mushrooms. 

Spanish  fruit  pudding. 

Coffee, 


476  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

Hashed  Potatoes — Take  six  cold-boiled  potatoes;  mince  them 
and  season  with  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  pep- 
per, adding  one-half  cupful  of  milk  or  stock.  Melt  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  and  when  it  is  very  hot  pour  in 
the  potatoes.  Spread  evenly  and  set  back  where  they  will  brown, 
then  fold  over  like  an  omelet  and  serve.  A  little  minced  parsley 
or  onion  improves  the  dish. 

Mock  Terrapin — Season  one-half  of  a  calf's  liver  with  a 
small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  fry  slowly  until  brown;  then  cut 
it  into  small  dice  and  dredge  with  flour.  Add  to  it  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  mixed  mustard,  two  finely  chopped,  hard-boiled  eggs,  two 
gills  of  boiling  water,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  two  ounces 
of  butter.  Let  this  boil  three  minutes,  then  add  one-half  a  gill 
of  lemon  juice  and  serve  very  hot. 

Beef  Tea — To  one  pound  of  raw  round  steak,  freed  from  fat 
and  finely  minced,  add  four  drops  of  hydrochloric  acid.  Put  it 
into  a  fruit  jar  and  set  the  jar  into  a  kettle  of  cold  water  over  a 
slow  fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  three  hours.  Strain  through 
a  coarse  strainer.  Season  with  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt.  As 
the  most  nutritive  portion  of  the  meat  precipitates  in  the  prepa- 
ration do  not  strain  too  closely  or  exclude  the  sediment  from  the 
beef  tea. 

Stewed  Mushrooms — Drop  the  mushrooms  as  cleaned  into 
water  made  slightly  acid  with  vinegar.  Drain,  slice  thin,  and  to 
every  quart  add  half  a  teacupful  of  cold  water,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Simmer  five  minutes;  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  rubbed  into  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Remove 
as  soon  as  it  bubbles. 

Spanish  Fruit  Pudding — Line  a  baking  dish  with  a  light  puff 
of  paste,  add  a  layer  of  sliced  peaches,  a  layer  of  sweet  oranges, 
sliced,  and  a  layer  of  sliced  bananas.  Strew  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  between  each  layer.  Cover  the  dish  with  a  light  puff 
of  paste  and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown.  Use  eight  or  ten  peaches, 
three  oranges  and  four  bananas.    Delicious. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Rowan. 

No.  227  Fairview  Place,  Waukegan,  111. 


October  brings  the  mushroom,  and  few  people  are  acquainted 
with  its  indescribable,  delicious  flavor.  For  15  cents  one  can  buy 
an  abundance  for  a  family  of  flve.  If  necessary  do  without  some 
other  luxury  and  give  the  mushroom  a  good  trial  this  month. 


SATURDAY.  OCTOBER  THE  SIXTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Seven-njinute  eggs.  California  breakfast  food. 

Graham  muffins.  Marmalade. 

Coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  ill 

LUNCHEON. 

Stewed  green  tomatoes.  Curd  sandwiches. 

Scotch  shortcake. 

Dutch  cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Clear  soup  a  la  Vienne. 

Old  Cornish  meat  pie.  Quince  jelly. 

Baked  sweet  potatoes.  Fresh  bread. 

Mrs.  Thompson's  carrot  pudding. 

Coffee  or  tea. 


Seven-Minute  Eggs — Pour  boiling  water  upon  the  eggs,  and 
let  them  stand  seven  minutes  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  Prepared 
in  this  manner  they  will  keep  of  a  pleasant,  soft  consistency  for 
several  minutes  longer,  either  in  the  water,  or  under  egg-cosies. 

Stewed  Green  Tomatoes  —  Six  large  green  tomatoes,  pared; 
three  good-sized  onions,  peeled.  Slice  the  onions  very  thin  into  a 
spider  in  which  has  been  melted  a  tablespoonful  of  fat.  Let  the 
onions  fry  five  or  six  minutes,  taking  care  that  they  do  not  burn; 
then  sprinkle  a  good  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  black  pepper  upon  them,  mixing  well.  Slice  the  pared  green 
tomatoes  into  the  spider  and  add  half  a  teacupful  of  hot  water. 
Stir  all  together  and  let  stew  under  cover  about  ten  minutes,  or 
until  tomatoes  are  soft.  Add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  serve  in  hot  dish. 

Scotch  Shortcake — Scotch  shortcake  is  simply  good  pie-crust 
rolled  out  and  spread  with  butter,  sugar  and  a  dusting  of  cinna- 
mon; folded  over,  and  the  butter,  sugar  and  cinnamon  repeated 
on  top.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Very 
nice  for  luncheon. 

Dutch  Cocoa — The  Dutch  cocoas  are  best  prepared  by  mixing 
thoroughly  equal  parts  of  cocoa  and  sugar,  and  pouring  absolutely 
boiling  water  upon  the  mixture,  in  the  proportion  of  one  teacup- 
ful water  to  two  teaspoonfuls  of  the  mixture.  A  little  milk  or 
cream  is  added  to  each  cup  when  serving.  The  cocoa  may  be  made 
directly  in  the  cups,  or  in  chocolate  pot.  It  is  equally  delicious, 
either   way. 

Clear  Soup,  ^  la  Vienne — Take  three  pints  good  soup  stock, 
and  add  to  it  a  small  onion  and  half  a  small  carrot,  which  have 
been  parboiled  five  minutes.  Add  a  bay  leaf,  two  kernels  of  all- 
spice, a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  saltspoonful  of 
black  pepper,  a  tiny  pinch  of  red  pepper,  and  a  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  minute  shavings  of  the  outer  peel  of 
a  lemon.  Boil  thirty  minutes  and  strain.  Return  it  to  the 
kettle,  and  drop  into  it,  when  again  boiling,  small  tablespoonfuls 
of  the  following  mixture: 

One  egg  well  beaten,  one  tablespoonful  lard  beaten  into  the 
egg,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  farina.    Stir  all  thoroughly  before 


in  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOkL 

dropping  into  the  boiling  soup.  Let  boil  scarcely  three  minutes, 
and  serve.  A  pleasant  and  unique  addition  to  soup,  somewhat 
resembling  the  roe  of  small  fish. 

Old  Cornish  Meat  Pie — Two  squabs,  or  young  pigeons;  four 
large,  tart  apples;  four  good-sized  onions;  one  and  one-half 
pounds  lean  mutton  or  lamb. 

Cut  the  mutton  in  small  pieces  and  simmer  for  an  hour  and 
a  half  in  a  quart  of  water,  with  one  teaspoonful  salt,  and  a  couple 
of  peppercorns. 

Line  a  deep  pudding  dish  around  the  sides  only,  with  a  crust 
composed  of  a  pint  of  sifted  flour,  one-fourth  pound  of  beef  suet 
chopped  very  fine,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  and  nearly  a  tea- 
cupful  of  cold  water.  Leave  enough  of  the  crust  to  cover  the  top 
with   a   rather  thick   layer. 

Prepare  the  squabs,  wash,  and  wipe  them  dry,  rub  them  in- 
side and  out  with  salt  and  pepper  and  lay  them  in  the  bottom  of 
the  pudding  dish. 

Cover  the  squabs  with  alternate  layers  of  sliced  apple,  sliced 
onion,  and  bits  of  mutton,  occasionally  dredging  in  a  very  little 
flour,  and  laying  a  few  bits  of  butter.  Continue  the  layers  until 
the  dish  is  heaping  full,  and  pour  into  it  the  water  in  which  the 
mutton  was  stewed.  Roll  out  the  top  crust,  cut  crisscross  slits  for 
ventilation,  lay  it  over  the  pie,  fastening  the  edges  well  against 
the  lining  crust.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  quick  oven,  taking  care  that 
the  top  crust  does  not  burn.  It  is  best  served  in  the  dish  in  which 
it  is  baked.    A  Cornish  dish,  which,  once  learned,  is  much  liked. 

"Happy  is  the  family  that  can  eat  onions  together!" — Old 
Proverb. 

Mrs.  Thompson's  Carrot  Pudding  —  One-half  pound  bread 
crumbs,  one-fourth  pound  stoned  raisins,  one-fourth  pound  cur- 
rants, three-fourths  pound  boiled  and  mashed  carrot,  one  cup 
sugar,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  one-fourth  grated  nutmeg,  one 
half  cup  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt. 

Boil  the  carrots  and  mash  them  fine,  add  the  other  ingredients, 
mix  well  and  put  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish.  Bake  one  hour. 
Turn  it  out  of  dish  and  serve  with  cream  and  sifted  sugar.  It  is 
also  very  nice  when  cold,  and  can  then  be  sliced. 

Mrs.  E.  K.  Parrish. 

Western  Springs,  Cook  County,  111. 


SUNDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  SEVENTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 

Cracked  wheat,  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Creamed  cod  in  potato  case.  Egg  bread. 

Doughnuts.  Coffee. 


Tim  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK,  479 


LUNCHEON. 

Sausage  toast.  Cider  jelly. 

Fayal  biscuit.  Baked  pear  compote. 

Cocoa. 

DINNER. 

Pink  cream  soup.  Potato  balls. 

Indian  cutlets.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Lima  beans. 

Snowballs.  Coffee. 


Cracked  Wheat — To  four  small  cups  of  boiling  water  stir  in 
one  cup  of  cracked  wheat  and  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boil  in 
double  boiler  two  hours;  serve  hot  or  pour  into  a  mold  and  serve 
cold,  with  cream  and  sugar.    Prepare  this  the  day  before. 

Creamed  Cod  in  Potato  Case — Boil  and  mash  six  potatoes; 
add  one  egg,  a  gill  of  milk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  drift 
of  pepper;  beat  all  until  very  light.  Pick  and  scald  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  boneless  cod;  drain  and  press  perfectly  dry.  Mix 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  of  flour;  add  one  pint  of 
milk  and  stir  on  stove  until  boiling,  adding  a  half-saltspoon  of 
pepper.  Grease  a  small  pudding  dish;  line  the  bottom  and  sides 
with  the  potatoes.  Add  the  cod  to  the  cream  sauce  and  fill  in  the 
center;  cover  the  top  with  a  thick  layer  of  mashed  potatoes  and 
bake  until  a  nice  brown.    When  done  turn  out  and  serve. 

Egg  Bread — Two  cups  of  yellow  meal,  one  cup  of  cold  boiled 
rice,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  cups  of  milk.  Stir  the  beaten  eggs 
into  the  milk;  add  the  meal,  butter,  salt  and  lastly  the  rice;  beat 
hard  three  minutes;  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and 
bake  quickly  in  a  shallow  pan. 

Doughnuts — Sift  three  times  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der in  one  quart  of  flour.  Dissolve  half  a  cup  of  sugar  in  one  cup 
of  milk;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  half  of  a  grated  nutmeg  and 
two  well-beaten  eggs.  Mix  with  the  flour;  handle  as  little  as 
possible;  roll  out;  cut  with  a  ring-cutter  and  fry.  This  makes 
enough  for  three  meals. 

Sausage  Toast — Pry  five  link  sausages;  strip  off  the  skins  and 
mix  with  a  tablespoonful  of  scalded  parsley,  chopped  very  fine, 
a  grating  of  good  cheese,  such  as  Parmesan,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  mixed  mustard;    spread  the  mixture  on  hot-buttered  toast. 

Cider  Jelly — Soften  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  half  a  pint  of  cold 
water.  When  quite  soft  add  half  a  pint  of  hot  water  and  a  pint 
of  good,  sparkling  cider.  If  the  cider  be  very  sweet  the  juice  of  a 
lemon    is   an   improvement. 

Fayal  Biscuit — Take  three  cups  of  fiour,  one  cup  of  milk,  three 
eggs,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  three 
spoonfuls  of  powder.  Blend  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  beaten 
egg,  then  the  milk;    sift  the  flour  and  fold  into  the  other  ingre- 


480  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

clients  sofLly.  Lastly,  beat  in  the  baking  powder  lightly;  bake  in 
cups  or  rings  and  eat  hot  and  buttered. 

Baked  Pear  Compote  —  Fill  a  bean  pot  with  pears,  peeled, 
quartered  and  cored.  Sprinkle  over  them  about  half  a  cup  of  sugar 
for  a  quart  of  the  pears.  Add  about  a  cup  of  water;  cover  closely 
and  bake  several  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  red,  take  out 
the  pears,  arrange  in  a  pretty  dish,  drain  off  the  sirup,  let  it  boil 
up  once,  pour  over  the  fruit  and  set  away  to  cool.  Hard  winter 
pears  are  the  best. 

Pink  Cream  Soup — In  a  saucepan  put  of  each  a  tablespoonful 
and  a  half  of  butter  and  flour.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  quite 
smooth.  Then  add  by  degrees  three  pints  of  milk  and  let  boil  up. 
Season  with  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful 
of  grated  nutmeg.  Color  with  a  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  boiled 
beets  rubbed  through  sieve. 

Potato  Balls — Grate  four  cold  boiled  potatoes;  mix  with  them 
a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  Rub  into  them  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  butter;  beat  them  up  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
and  the  white  of  one.  Make  into  small  balls,  roll  in  bread  crumbs, 
fry  a  golden  brown  in  hot  fat;  place  in  tureen  and  pour  the  soup 
over  them. 

Indian  Cutlets — Y>lith  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk  mix  a  tea- 
spoonful of  coriander  seed,  and  the  same  of  powdered  ginger,  and 
a  small  onion  finely  chopped.  Take  two  pounds  of  tender  veal,  cut 
it  into  neat  cutlet-shaped  pieces  and  soak  them  in  the  above  mix- 
ture one  hour.  Then  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  a  light 
brown.  Sprinkle  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  over  each  and  squeeze  a 
little  lemon  juice  over  them  at  the  moment  of  serving. 

Stewed  Lima  Beans — Cover  a  pint  of  limas  with  a  quart  of 
freshly  boiling  water,  and  cook  half  an  hour;  drain  off  half  the 
water  and  add  an  ounce  of  finely  minced,  salt,  fat  pork,  a  half 
teaspoonful  each  of  onion  and  parsley,  a  cup  of  hot  milk  and  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt;  stew  until  the  beans  are  tender.  Finish 
with  a  spoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 

Snowballs — Pare  and  core  six  apples,  fill  the  space  with  a  lit- 
tle marmalade  or  sugar  and  spice,  with  a  bit  of  chopped  lemon 
peel.  Place  each  apple  in  separate  cloth  and  scatter  over  each 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice.  Tie  rather  loosely  and  boil  for  one 
hour.  For  the  sauce,  cream  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 
with  a  cup  of  sugar;  add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  an  orange 
and  pour  over  slowly  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  F.  E.  Peck. 

117  West  Seventeenth  Street,  Davenport,  Iowa. 


MONDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  EIGHTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Steamed  rice. 

Ham  omelet.  Fried  Indian  mush. 

Coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  481 

LUNCHEON. 

Stuffed  peppers.  Baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Bread  and  butter.  Cabbage  salad. 

Quince  preserves.  Spanish  buns. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Celery  soup. 

Baked  mutton  chops  and  potatoes. 

Baked  squash.  Lima  bean  salad. 

Cabinet  pudding. 

Tea. 


Steamed  Rice — Wash  a  small  cup  of  rice  and  put  in  double 
boiler,  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk  and  a  saltspoon  of  salt. 
Cook  till  creamy,  add  a  teaspoon  of  butter  and  three  tablespoons 
sugar.  Stir  lightly  and  serve. 

Stuffed  Peppers — Prepare  green  peppers  the  day  before  by  cut- 
ting off  a  slice  at  stem  end,  taking  out  seeds  and  partitions  and 
placing  peppers  and  end  slices  in  cold  salt  water.  Soak  twenty- 
four  hours,  changing  the  water  three  or  four  times.  When  ready 
to  use,  take  for  six  peppers  one  cup  chopped  cold  meat,  one  table- 
spoon melted  butter,  one  tomato,  peeled,  drained  and  cut  in  dice, 
one-fourth  cup  uncooked  rice,  one-half  teaspoon  salt;  fill  peppers, 
putting  ends  in  place  in  pan,  and  put  in  one  slice  onion,  table- 
spoon butter,  juice  from  tomato  and  water  enough  to  reach  half 
the  height  of  peppers.  Bake  one  hour  in  slow  oven,  basting  pep- 
pers every  fifteen  minutes.  When  done  lift  peppers  to  a  platter, 
thicken  the  gravy  and  pour  over  them. 

Quince  Preserves — To  one  peck  sweet  apples — pared  and  quar- 
tered— take  fifteen  quinces,  cut  in  eighths,  and  five  pounds  of 
sugar;  place  alternate  layers  of  fruit  and  sugar  in  preserving  ket- 
tle, add  two  cups  water  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
cook  slowly  till  fruit  is  tender  and  sirup  clear. 

Spanish  Buns — Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  molasses, 
three-fourths  cup  butter,  three-fourths  cup  sweet  milk,  three  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  five  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  cloves,  three  teaspoons  cinnamon,  one-half  nutmeg, 
grated.  Bake  in  dripping  pans,  and  while  warm  cut  in  small 
squares  and  frost.  This  makes  three  dozen  buns,  which  keep 
perfectly.  For  frosting,  use  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cinnamon,  a  dash  of  cloves,  and  beat  in  enough  brown  sugar 
to  thicken. 

Lima  Bean  Salad — To  one  pint  Lima  beans  add  half  a  small 
onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  a  half-teaspoon  salt.  Cook  till  ten- 
der; drain  and  set  on  ice.  When  very  cool  cover  with  salad 
dressing. 

Cabinet  Pudding— Soak  four  cups  bread  crumbs  in  three  cups 
milk,  add  three  beaten  eggs,  half  cup  sugar,  half  cup  seeded  raisins 


482  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

and  half  cup  currants  dredged  with  flour,  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat 
well  and  turn  into  well-buttered  mold  or  tin  pail.  Cover  tight 
and  boil  steadily  two  and  one-half  hours.  Eat  with  hard  sauce. 
If  any  is  left  it  is  equally  good  steamed  over. 

Wauseon,  0.  Florence  Howe. 


TUESDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  NINETEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Minced  meat  on  toast. 

Kentucky  rolls.  Egg  omelet. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Sliced  cold  roast  with  Chili  sauce. 

Beaten  biscuit.  Drop  cakes. 

Chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  celery  soup. 

Chicken — Kentucky  style. 

Cream  corn.  Cold  slaw. 

Baked  apple  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Kentucky  Rolls — One  pound  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  one 
egg,  one  ounce  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast,  one  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Heat  the  milk,  a^d  the  butter  and  salt.  When 
lukewarm,  beat  all  together  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  not 
less  than  three  hours  before  wanted.  When  risen,  form  into  rolls 
with  as  little  handling  as  possible.  Let  stand  half  hour  or  until 
light.     Bake  on  tins. 

Egg  Omelet  (splendid) — Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately,  half  pint  of  sweet  milk,  six  teaspoonfuls  of  cornstarch, 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  add 
the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  last;    cook  in  a  little  butter. 

Chili  Sauce — Eight  quarts  of  tomatoes,  three  cups  of  peppers, 
two  cups  of  onions,  all  chopped  very  fine,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  salt,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  vinegar,  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  cloves;  same  quantity  of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls  each  of 
ginger  and  nutmeg;  boil  three  hours;  chop  tomatoes,  peppers 
and  onions  very  fine;    bottle  up  and  seal. 

Chicken — Kentucky  Style — Kill  chicken  the  day  before  it  is 
cooked.  Split  open  on  the  back,  as  if  to  broil.  When  all  ready 
to  cook,  wipe  dry,  rub  well  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Put  in 
a  pan  with  a  slice  of  bacon  or  pork  in  a  pint  of  water.    Simmer 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  483 

an  hour,  basting  frequently.  When  thoroughly  done,  place  on  a 
hot  dish. 

Stir  into  the  gravy  remaining  on  the  fire  a  beaten  egg,  mix- 
ing it  carefully.  Pour  this  into  the  dish,  but  not  on  the  chicken. 
Sift  over  it  cracker,  first  browned  and  then  pounded.  Garnish  with 
parsley  and  serve. 

Baked  Apple  Pudding— The  yolks  of  four  eggs,  six  large  pip- 
pins grated,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar, 
the  juice  and  half  the  peel  of  one  len^on.  Beat  sugar  and  butter 
to  cream,  stir  in  yolks  and  lemon  with  the  grated  apple.  Pour  in 
a  deep  pudding  dish  to  bake.  Grate  nutmeg  on  top.  Eat  cold  with 
cream.  Mrs.  L.  D.  Potter. 

No.  1122  State  Street,  Bowling  Green,  Ky. 


WEDNESDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  TWENTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Seedless  grapes. 

Oatmeal  sugar  and  cream. 

Chicken  pancakes.  Sliced  tomatoes. 

Hot  coffee.  » 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  wheat  cakes. 

Potato  salad. 

Bread,  biscuit  and  butter. 

Stewed  pears  with  rice. 

Cocoa, 


DINNER. 

Noodle  soup. 

Stewed  shoulder  of  veal. 

Savory  baked  potatoes. 

Hot  slaw.  Mustard  pickles. 

Cherry  tapioca  with  cream. 

Coffee  nuts.  Hot  coffee. 


Chicken  Pancakes — One  pint  of  finely  chopped  cold  chicken 
seasoned  with  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  half  saltspoon  of  pepper 
and  two  tablespoons  of  tomato  catchup.  Heat  to  boiling  point  one 
half  pint  each  of  water  and  cold  gravy,  add  one  tablespoon  each 
of  butter  and  flour;  let  boil  a  moment  and  add  the  chicken  and  set 
aside  to  keep  very  hot. 

For  the  batter,  beat  two  eggs  until  light,  mix  with  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  sweet  milk,  two  full  cups  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Hastily  fry  pancakes  of 
the  desired  size  to  a  light  brown,  spread  some  of  the  prepared 


484  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 

chicken  upon  each  pancake,  fold  once  and  keep  hot  until  all  are 
ready  for  serving. 

Potato  Salad— Cream  Dressing— Chop  coarsely  enough  cold 
boiled  potatoes  to  make  one  quart.  Chop  three  hard  boiled  eggs 
and  mince  one  large  onion  or  use  one-half  teacupful  of  minced 
celery  instead.  Arrange  in  the  salad  bowl  in  layers  of  potatoes, 
eggs  and  minced  onion,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  each  layer  and 
using  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

For  dressing,  mix  one  beaten  egg  with  one  cupful  of  vinegar 
and  stir  over  the  fire  till  cooked;  set  aside  till  perfectly  cold. 
Whip  two-thirds  of  a  teacupful  of  sweet  cream  and  add  to  the 
vinegar  and  egg  when  cold.  Mix  lightly  and  pour  over  potatoes. 
Do  not  stir  after  adding  to  potatoes. 

Noodle  Soup — Three  pints  or  more  of  good  stock  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  one-half  hour  before  seasoning  noodles 
made  of  one  egg,  slightly  beaten  with  one  tablespoonful  of  water, 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper  and  mixed  as  solid 
as  possible  with  flour,  rolled  to  paper-like  thinness,  dried  at  least 
one  hour,  and  cut  in  pieces  one-half  inch  square.  One-quarter  of 
an  hour  before  serving,  stir  in  one-half  cup  of  cold  oatmeal  left 
from  breakfast. 

Stewed  Shoulder  of  Veal — Remove  the  bone  from  the  shoul- 
der and  stuff  the  cavity  left  with  a  cupful  of  bread  crumbs  sea- 
soned with  a  teaspoonful  of  sage,  a  saltspoon  of  salt  and  one-half 
a  saltspoon  of  pepper,  slightly  moistened  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
water  or  milk.  Cover  the  top  of  the  meat  with  thin  slices  of  cold 
cooked  fat  bacon  or  salt  pork,  fastening  them  in  place.  Put  the  meat 
into  a  pot  with  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  a  chopped  onion  and 
two  stalks  of  celery;  add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  cover  and 
stir  gently  for  two  hours.  Remove  the  meat  to  a  dripping-pan, 
brush  over  with  a  raw  egg,  sift  rolled  cracker  crumbs  over  it,  and 
set  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour;  when  well  browned  serve  on  a 
hot  dish.  Strain  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  cooked,  thicken  with 
a  large  spoonful  of  browned  flour,  boiling  briskly  for  five  min- 
utes, and  send  to  table  in  a  gravy-boat. 

Savory  Baked  Potatoes — Peel  as  many  medium-sized  potatoes 
as  will  cover  the  bottom  of  a  large  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  over 
them  a  half -teaspoonful  of  dried  sage,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Cut  an  onion  in  thin  slices  and 
spread  over  the  top.  Add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  small 
lumps  and  pour  over  all  a  half-cupful  of  milk  or  meat  broth. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  forty  minutes. 

Mustard  Pickles— One  quart  each  of  onions,  cabbage,  green 
tomatoes,  green  cucumbers,  ripe  cucumbers  and  one  large  green 
pepper,  all  chopped  fine  and  put  in  brine  for  twenty-four  hours. 
Then  bring  to  a  boil  on  the  stove,  after  which  drain  quite  dry. 
Take  one  quart  of  vinegar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one-half  cupful 
of  flour,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  sugar,  six  tablespoonfuls  dry 
mustard,  one  tablespoonful  turmeric  powder.  Mix  all  together; 
let  boil,  and  stir  while  hot  into  the  chopped  vegetables.  A  good 
rule  for  making  brine  is  one  pint  coarse  salt  to  six  quarts  of 
water. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  485 

Cherry  Tapioca — Wash  well  one  cupful  of  tapioca.  Cover  with 
cold  water  and  soak  over  night.  Drain  the  juice  from  a  quart  jar 
of  cherries,  add  sufficient  water  to  the  juice  to  make  one  pint,  pour 
over  the  tapioca,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
until  perfectly  clear  and  done.  Then  add  the  cherries  and  a  cup- 
ful of  sugar  (or  more  if  the  cherries  are  very  sour) ;  stir  all  to- 
gether thoroughly,  pour  into  a  pudding  dish,  and  bake  one-half 
hour.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with  sugar  and  plain  or  whipped  cream. 
Early  Richmond  cherries  are  best. 

Astoria,  111.  Mrs.  Lillian  D.  M'Pherson. 


THURSDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  TWENTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Shredded  wheat  biscuit,  sugar  and  cream. 

Foamy  omelet  with  ham. 

Oatmeal  muffins. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cold  meat  with  puree  of  potatoes. 

Drop  biscuits. 

Cocoa. 

Apples  and  grapes. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  celery  soup.         Dinner  rolls. 

Broiled  steak  and  mushrooms. 

Sweet  potatoes  baked. 

Spinach. 

Sponge  pudding. 


Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit — Take  three  wheat  biscuits,  crum- 
ble them  in  a  dish  and  pour  over  them  one  coffeecup  of  boiling 
water,  and  cover  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  mix  well  with  a 
spoon.    Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Foamy  Omelet  with  Ham — Separate  the  yolks  from  the 
whites  of  six  eggs,  and  put  them  into  bowls.  To  the  yolks  add  one 
saltspoonful  of  salt  and  one-half  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 
Beat  with  a  Dover  eggbeater  or  fork  until  light.  Then  add  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Beat  the  whites  until  stiff  and  fold,  not 
beat  them,  into  the  yolks,  so  that  the  whole  shall  be  very 
light  and  puffy.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  pan  and  cook 
slowly  until  the  underside  begins  to  turn  brown,  or  for  about  two 
minutes.  Then  put  the  pan  on  the  grate  in  the  oven  for  about 
one  minute  or  a  little  longer,  to  cook  the  upper  surface.    Have 


486  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

ready  broiled  a  thin,  small  slice  of  ham,  thoroughly  well  done. 
Run  a  knife  under  the  omelet  to  separate  it  from  the  pan,  lay 
the  ham  lightly  on  one  half  of  it  and  fold  over  it  the  other.  Take 
the  hot  platter  which  is  to  receive  it  in  the  right  hand,  lay  it 
against  the  edge  of  the  pan,  and  tip  the  omelet  out.  Serve  im- 
mediately. 

Oatmeal  Muflans — Two  and  a  quarter  cups  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  cooked 
oatmeal,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  Sift  the  flour  and 
baking  powder  together  twice.  Beat  the  egg  very  light,  stir  into 
it  the  salt,  sugar  and  milk,  then  add  the  flour  (sifted),  and  last 
the  oatmeal  and  butter;  beat  for  a  minute  and  bake  immediately 
in  gem  pans  or  muffin  rings  in  a  hot  oven  for  half  an  hour.  The 
oatmeal  should  have  been  cooked  rather  dry. 

Cold  Meat  with  Puree  of  Potatoes— Pour  good-sized  potatoes, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teacupful  of  boiling  milk,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Pare  and  boil  the  potatoes  and  mash  light 
and  fine.  Add  the  butter,  salt,  boiling  milk,  a  pinch  of  pepper; 
heat  up  light  and  lay  on  a  hot  platter.  Place  on  this  slices  of  any 
kind  of  cold  meat,  and  on  each  slice  put  a  spoonful  of  hot  gravy, 
and  set  the  platter  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Garnish  with 
parsley.  If  there  is  no  gravy  left  from  the  day  before,  put  in  a 
quart  of  water  with  the  milk  and  hard  pieces  of  the  meat,  and 
boil  down  to  a  pint.  Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  pan, 
and  when  hot  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  slowly.  Stir  until 
deep  brown  and  strain  the  broth  in  this.  Season  with  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  spoonful  of  any  kind  of  sauce,  if  you 
please. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup — One  head  of  celery,  one  pint  of  water, 
one  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  saltspoonful 
of  white  pepper.  Wash  and  scrape  the  celery,  cut  it  into  half- 
inch  pieces,  put  it  into  the  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  until 
it  is  very  soft.  When  done,  mash  it  in  the  water  in  which  it  is 
boiled  and  add  the  salt  and  pepper.  Let  the  milk  come  to  a 
boil  with  a  slice  of  a  small  onion  in  it;  cream  together  the  butter 
and  flour,  and  stir  slowly  the  boiled  milk  into  it,  then  add  this 
to  the  celery  and  strain  through  a  sieve,  pressing  and  mashing 
with  the  back  of  a  spoon  until  all  but  the  tough  fibers  of  the 
celery  are  squeezed  through.  Return  the  soup  to  the  fire  and 
heat  until  it  is  steaming,  when  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Broiled  Steak  and  Mushrooms— Select  a  steak  from  the  top 
of  the  round  and  have  it  cut  an  inch  and  a  half  thick.  Place 
the  steak  in  a  wire  broiler,  put  it  as  near  the  glowing  coals  as 
possible,  count  ten  and  turn  it,  and  so  on  for  five  or  six  tim.es; 
then  lift  the  broiler  farther  away  from  the  coals  and  let  the  meat 
cook  more  slowly.  When  done,  salt  and  butter,  and  place  on  a  hot 
dish.  Surround  with  half  a  dozen  good-sized  mushrooms,  which 
have  been  cooked  as  follows:  Wipe  off  the  mushrooms  and  peel 
them,  cut  off  the  stems  close,   butter  the  mushrooms  top  and 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  487 

bottom  and  let  them  stand  for  half  an  hour;  then  broil  until 
tender  in  a  hot  pan  or  wire  broiler. 

Sweet  potatoes  should  be  baked  in  a  hot  oven,  so  they  cook 
quickly. 

Spinach — After  washing  the  spinach  well  and  picking  it 
over,  boil  in  plenty  of  hot  water,  salted,  for  twenty-five  minutes. 
Drain  and  press  out  the  water;  chop  fine,  put  back  over  the  fire 
with  a  large  spoonful  of  butter,  a  teaspoonfur  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  until  hot  and 
smooth;  turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  garnish  with  a,  hard-boiled  egg, 
cut  in  slices.  Another  nice  dressing  is  made  with  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  butter,  two  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  very 
little  nutmeg. 

Sponge  Pudding — The  yolks  of  three  eggs,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Stir  the  milk,  scalding  hot,  into  the 
flour  (which  should  have  been  sifted),  beat  well,  then  slowly  add 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  (beating  rapidly  all  the  time)  and  sugar. 
Have  the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth,  add  them  to  the  batter,  and 
pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  at  once  for  half  an  hour. 
Serve  immediately.  Any  seasoning  preferred  may  be  used,  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  rose,  a  half-teaspoonful  of  almond,  or 
a  grate  of  nutmeg.  Mrs.  Thomas  Turtle. 

No.  2815  Q  Street,  Washington,  D.  C. 


FRIDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  TWENTY-SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Bread  balls.  Beef  hash. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Blanquette  of  chicken. 

Celery.  Bread   and  butter. 

Coddled  apples.         Ginger  bread. 

Milk  or  cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup. 

Oyster  pie  with  Richmond  sauce. 

Creamed   potatoes.  Baked   cabbage. 

Rye  bread  and  butter. 

Cornstarch  fritters. 


Bread  Balls — Take  one-half  loaf  of     stale  bread,     break  in 
bits;  and  add  teaspoon  of  salt;  half-saltspoon  of  pepper,  lump  of 


488  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

butter  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  pinch  of  sage,  if  liked.  Pour  boil- 
ing water  over  this,  using  enough  to  moisten  the  bread;  then 
stir  with  fork  until  quite  smooth.  Beat  three  eggs  until  very 
light,  and  add.  Have  a  skillet  on  the  stove  smoking  hot,  with 
tablespoon  of  drippings  or  part  lard  and  butter.  Put  the  bread 
mixture  in  with  spoon,  and  when  a  rich  brown,  turn  and  fry  other 
side.    Place  on  hot  platter  and  serve  at  once. 

Oyster  Pie — Make  a  biscuit  dough  of  one  quart  flour,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  table- 
spoons shortening,  milk  or  water  to  make  a  dough  not  too  stiff. 
Take  two-thirds  of  the  dough  and  roll  out  to  fit  a  good-sized  bak- 
ing dish.  Sprinkle  this  with  a  little  flour  and  add  one  quart  of 
oysters.  To  the  juice  of  the  oysters  add  one  teaspoon  of  corn- 
starch. Pour  over  oysters,  cover  with  small  lumps  of  butter, 
season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Roll  out  the  remaining 
dough  and  cover  pie  with  it,  making  incisions  in  top  to  let  out 
air.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  crust  is  a  rich  brown. 

Richmond  Sauce — One  pint  cooked  tomatoes,  one  cup  water, 
two  cloves,  two  allspice  berries,  two  peppercorns,  one  teaspoon 
mixed  herbs,  two  sprigs  parsley.  Put  all  on  to  boil  in  granite 
saucepan.  Fry  one  tablespoon  chopped  onion  in  one  tablespoon 
butter^  until  yellow;  then  add  one  heaping  tablespoon  cornstarch 
and  stir  all  into  the  tomato.  Simmer  for  ten  minutes;  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-half  saltspoon  pepper,  a  dash  of 
cayenne  and  strain,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  This  is  splendid  for 
chops  or  fish,  and  should  be  poured  over  them  while  hot. 

Cornstarch  Fritters — Boil  one  pint  of  milk  with  one-inch  of 
stick  cinnamon.  Stir  together  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons cornstarch  and  one  of  flour,  and  add  one-fourth  cup  cold 
milk,  and  yolk  of  three  eggs  well-beaten.  Add  the  boiling  milk 
to  this,  and  one  saltspoon  of  salt  and  stir  well.  Strain  into 
double  boiler  and  cook  fifteen  minutes;  stirring  often.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  add  one  teaspoon  butter  and  one  of  vanilla. 
Pour  into  a  buttered  bread-pan  about  one  inch  deep  and  set  to 
cool.  When  very  hard,  sprinkle  a  bread-board  with  fine  bread 
crumbs.  Turn  the  cream  out  on  this  and  cut  into  strips  two  and 
a  half  inches  long  and  one  inch  wide,  or  in  diamonds.  Cover 
these  in  crumbs;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again,  and 
fry  one  minute  in  smoking  hot  lard.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
serve  hot.  It  is  better  to  make  the  cream  the  night  before.  They 
are  splendid  and  very  delicate.  Mrs.  Frederick  Stingle. 

884  Southport  Avenue,  Chicago,   111. 


SATURDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  TWENTY-THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Soft  boiled  eggs. 

Crisped  bacon. 

Hot  corn  cake.  Honey. 

Coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  489 

LUNCHEON. 

Spiced  currants. 

Cold  sliced  tongue.  Sweet  potato  balls. 

Molasses  cake. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Ragout  of  mutton. 

Steamed  Irish  potatoes. 

Fried  green  tomatoes. 

Cocoanut  pie.    Grapes. 

Coffee. 


Ragout  of  Mutton — Three  pounds  of  mutton  without  bone; 
cut, in  strips  three  inches  long  by  one  inch  wide;  two  lamb  sweet- 
breads, one  cup  of  gravy  made  from  bones,  skin,  etc. — "trim- 
mings" of  the  meat — two  eggs,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt 
pork,  one  fried  onion,  one  cup  of  green  peas  (the  canned  will 
answer  the  purpose),  pepper,  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  minced 
parsley;  dripping  for  frying  browned  flour.  Fry  the  onion  in 
plenty  of  dripping,  then  the  meat  for  five  minutes;  parboil  the 
sweetbreads,  throw  into  cold  water  to  blanch,  wipe  and  slice, 
then  fry  also  in  the  fat.  Lay  sliced  pork  in  the  bottom  of  a 
saucepan;  upon  this  the  mutton,  then  the  sweetbreads,  next  the 
onion,  green  peas,  then  pepper,  salt  and  parsley;  cover  with 
gravy,  put  on  a  close  lid;  stew  gently  for  one  hour  after  the  boil 
sets  in.  Take  up  the  meat  and  sweetbreads,  thicken  gravy  with 
browned  flour,  pour  it  on  two  beaten  eggs,  stir  one  minute  over 
the  fire  and  pour  upon  the  meat  and  serve. 

Fried  Green  Tomatoes — Cut  six  large  green  tomatoes  into 
slices  about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water.  Sprinkle  over  the  tomatoes 
some  salt  and  pepper,  dip  them  in  the  egg  and  then  in  fine  bread 
crumbs.  Fry  in  butter,  brown  thoroughly  on  both  sides,  and 
serve  with  a  gravy  made  as  follows:  Rub  together  one  table- 
spoonful of  flour  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  when 
well  creamed,  brown  in  the  pan;  add  a  half  pint  of  boiling  milk, 
stirring  constantly  until  it  begins  to  thicken;  then  add  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes. 

Molasses  Drop  Cakes — One  cupful  of  molasses,  three  cupfuls 
of  flour,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda.  Beat  the  ingredients  together  thoroughly, 
and  drop  in  spoonfuls  upon  a  buttered  tin.  Bake  for  five  or  six 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cocoanut  Pie — For  a  pie  put  a  cup  of  grated  cocoanut  to 
soak  over  night  if  it  is  desiccated  (if  fresh  need  not  soak).  When 
ready  to  bake,  take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  mix  it  with  a 
pint  of  milk  or  water,  place  on  the  stove  in  a  tin  pail  placed  in 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  stir  until  it  thickens;  if  water  is  used 


490  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  while  warm,  when  cool  add  a  lit- 
tle salt,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  about  one-half  cup; 
add  the  cocoanut,  beating  all  together,  fill  the  crust  and  bake. 
When  done  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar,  spread  on  top,  return  to  the  oven  and  brown 
slightly.  Nannie  K.  Van  Keuren. 

No.  412  South  Boulevard,  Oak  Park,  111. 


SUNDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  TWENTY-FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  sweet  apples. 

Farina,  cream  and  sugar. 

Eggs  a  la  dauphine. 

Whole  wheat  muffins.      Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Macaroni  with  oysters. 

Cabbage  salad.  Boiled  salad  dressing. 

Sliced  peaches  and  cream. 

Tea.        Toast. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  potato  soup. 

Roast  ribs  of  beef. 

Rice  and  cheese.  Sliced  tomatoes. 

Maple  custard. 

Coffee. 


Eggs  h  la  Dauphine — This  is  really  eggs  poached  in  tomatoes. 
Poach  one-half  dozen  strictly  fresh  eggs  in  one  and  one-half 
cupfuls  strained  cooked  tomatoes.  Carefully  lift  eggs  when  done 
to  heated  platter  and  around  them  pour  the  tomato  sauce,  made 
by  adding  one  tablespoonful  flour  and  one  tablespoonful  butter, 
well  mixed,  to  the  tomato  juice,  with  seasoning  of  one  large  half 
teaspoonful  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper. 

Whole  Wheat  Muffins— Two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one  egg, 
one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Beat  well.  Add  one-fourth  cupful 
sweet  milk  and  one  cupful  sour  milk;  one-half  teaspoonful  bak- 
ing soda  dissolved  in  one  tablespoonful  hot  water,  one  and  three- 
quarters  cupfuls  whole  wheat  flour.  Bake  in  well-greased,  hot 
gem  pans  in  quick  oven  one-half  hour.     Excellent. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing — Mix  one  dessert  spoonful  of  dry  mus- 
tard, one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  white 
pepper,  one-half  teaspoonful  celery  salt,  with  one  tablespoonful 
butter.  Stir  thoroughly,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Beat  well; 
add  one  cupful  of  hot  sweet  cream  or  milk.  Stir  all  together  in 
double  boiler  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Remove  immediately 
from  fire.    When  cold  add  two  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  491 

Cream  of  Potato  Soup— Boil  four  good-sized  potatoes  (peeled) 
in  one  quart  of  boiling  water  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  drain 
water  off  and  add  one  pint  fresh,  boiling  water;  add  one  bay  leaf, 
a  stalk  of  celery,  half  a  small  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  and  boil 
until  potatoes  are  done.  Now  press  the  potatoes  through  a  sieve. 
Rub  one  tablespoonful  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  flour  togeth- 
er and  stir  into  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  until  it  thickens.  Pour 
this  over  the  potatoes;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  until 
smooth  and  serve  immediately.  This  soup  cannot  stand  nor  be 
warmed  over. 

Rice  and  Cheese— Boil  one  cupful  rice  (well  washed)  in  rapid- 
ly boiling,  salted  water  for  one-half  hour.  Do  not  stir  when 
boiling,  but  shake  in  the  saucepan.  When  it  is  done,  drain,  and 
put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  with  one  cupful  grated  American 
cheese,  one  cupful  milk  and  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  if  the  cheese 
is  fresh.  Toss  all  together  well  and  cover  top  with  dots  of  butter. 
Brown  in  quick  oven  and  serve  in  baking  dish- 
Maple  Custard— Beat  five  eggs.  Stir  into  them  one  cupful 
maple  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  fiour,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt, 
one-quarter  teaspoonful  nutmeg.  Stir  this  all  into  two  quarts 
of  lukewarm  milk.  Pour  in  baking  dish  and  set  baking  dish  in 
pan  of  hot  water  in  oven.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  custard 
is  set— that  is,  firm  in  the  center.  Mrs.  Charles  C.  Pickett. 
No.  1415  Church  Street,  Evanston,  111. 


MONDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  TWENTY-FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Pettijohns  breakfast  food.  Oranges. 

Apple  cornmeal  gems.  Halibut  steaks  broiled. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Baked  eggs.  Bread  and  butter. 

Saratoga  chips.  Watermelon  cake. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Vegetable  soup. 

Turkish  stew.  Sweet  potato. 

Canned  peas.  Tomato  catsup. 

Figs  in  cream.  Coffee. 


Watermelon  Cake— White  part,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  and 
a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  almond  extract,  one- 
half  cup  of  milk,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  soda,  three-quarters 
teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  two  and  a  quarter  cups  of  flour, 
whites  of  five  eggs. 


492  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Pink  Part — One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  pink 
sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  whole  egg,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  a 
few  grates  of  nutmeg,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  soda,  three- 
quarters  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  two  and  a  half  cups  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  raisins,  seeded,  quartered  and  rolled  in  flour. 

Mix  each  part  in  the  order  given,  putting  soda  in  the  milk 
and  cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour,  and  adding  milk  and  flour  alter- 
nately. Put  the  pink  part  in  the  center  of  a  round  pan,  and  the 
white  part  around  the  edge.  Or  bake  in  two  brick  loaf  pans,  the 
pink  at  the  bottom  and  the  white  on  top.  The  oven  should  be  of 
a  moderate  heat.  Mrs.  Lincoln's  recipe. 

Turkish  Stew — Cut  the  remains  of  cold  roast  beef  into  small 
pieces,  say  one-half  inch  square.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
into  a  saucepan,  throw  the  meat  into  the  butter,  stir  carefully 
until  the  meat  is  nicely  browned,  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  add 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup,  one  onion  sliced,  and  one- 
half  cup  of  stock,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  green 
pepper  chopped  fine.  Cover  and  stand  on  the  back  part  of  the 
stove  for  twenty  minutes.    Serve  in  a  border  of  boiled  rice. 

Figs  in  Cream — The  figs  must  be  prepared  the  day  before. 
Purchase  two  pounds  of  the  best  Smyrna  figs,  pull  apart  and 
cover  them  with  cold  water  and  stand  aside  over  night.  Next 
morning  put  over  a  slow  fire  and  simmer  until  the  figs  are  plump 
and  tender;  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon  and  simmer 
again  a  few  minutes.  Turn  out  to  cool;  serve  in  a  glass  dish  with 
whipped  cream  heaped  over.  Mrs.  Lulu  Mansfield. 

No.  1104  West  Twelfth  Street,  Chicago. 


TUESDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  TWENTY-SIXTH. 

BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  prunes.  Minced  eggs. 

Squash  griddle  cakes. 

Rolls.  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Bouillon. 

Panned  oysters.  Celery  salad. 

Rusks.  Quince  snow. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Haricot  of  oxtails.  Potato  snow. 

Cabbage  a  la  Francaise.  Mixed  pickles. 

Apple  tarts. 

Cheese.  Coffee. 


Minced  Eggs — Chop  up,  rather  coarsely,  five  hard-boiled  eggs. 
Season  with  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt.    Put  over  the  fire  in 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  493 

a  suitable  dish  a  cupful  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one- 
fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  same  of  pepper,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  savory,  chopped  small.  When  this  comes  to  a  boil  stir  into 
it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk.  When 
thick  like  cream  put  in  the  minced  eggs.  Stir  it  gently  around 
and  around  for  a  few  moments.  Serve,  garnished  with  sippets  of 
toast.  Any  desired  flavor  may  be  added  to  the  mince,  such  as 
mushrooms,  shrimps  or  shredded  anchovy. 

Panned  Oysters — Fit  patty  pans  with  pieces  of  stale  bread, 
taking  off  all  the  crust;  toast  and  butter  them;  moisten  with 
three  or  four  teaspoonfuls  of  oyster  liquor;  place  on  toast  a  layer 
of  oysters,  sprinkled  with  pepper;  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on 
top  of  each  pan;  place  all  the  pans  in  a  baking  pan  and  place  in 
the  oven,  covering  tightly.  Cook  till  the  beards  are  ruffled,  re- 
move the  cover,  sprinkle  with  salt,  replace  and  cook  one  min- 
ute longer.    Serve  in  patty  pans. 

Quince  Snow — Quarter  five  fair-looking  quinces  and  boil  them 
in  water  until  they  are  tender;  then  peel  them  and  push  them 
through  a  coarse  sieve.  Sweeten  to  the  taste  and  add  the  whites  of 
four  eggs.  Beat  all  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pile  with  a  spoon  upon  a 
glass  dish  and  set  away  in  the  ice  box  unless  wanted  immediately. 

Haricot  of  Oxtails — Three  oxtails,  two  carrots,  two  onions,  two 
small  white  turnips,  three  potatoes,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, two  of  flour,  three  pints  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half 
of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  (more  or  less  seasoning  can 
be  added  if  necessary).  Cut  the  tails  in  pieces  four  inches  long. 
Cut  the  onions  very  fine,  and  the  carrots,  turnips  and  potatoes  into 
large  cubes.  Put  the  butter,  meat  and  onions  in  the  stew-pan  and 
fry,  stirring  all  the  time,  until  the  onions  are  a  golden  brown; 
then  add  the  flour  and  stir  two  minutes  longer.  Add  the  water, 
and,  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  skim  carefully.  Set  back  where  it 
will  simmer.  When  it  has  been  cooking  one  hour  add  the  carrots 
and  turnips.  Cook  another  hour  and  then  add  the  salt,  pepper 
and  potatoes.  Simmer  twenty  minutes  longer.  Heap  the  vege- 
tables in  the  center  of  a  hot  dish  and  arrange  the  tails  around 
them.    Pour  the  gravy  over  all  and  serve. 

Cabbage  a  la  Prancaise — Chop  a  small  head  of  cold  boiled 
v/hite  cabbage  and  let  it  drain  till  perfectly  dry.  Stir  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream. 
Heat  it  through,  then  add  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Turn  the  mix- 
ture into  a  buttered  frying-pan,  stirring  until  it  is  very  hot  and 
a  delicate  brown  on  the  under  side.  Place  a  hot  dish  over  the 
pan,  which  must  be  reversed  when  turned  out  to  be  served. 

Apple  Tarts — Boil  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  five  large 
tart  apples;  beat  until  very  smooth.  When  the  apples  are  quite 
soft,  then  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar.  Beat 
all  thoroughly,  line  patty  pans  with  a  good  paste  and  fill.  Bake 
five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Mrs.  John  Buie. 

No.  170  Harding  Avenue,  Chicago. 


494  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

WEDNESDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  TWENTY-SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cracked   wheat. 

Soft  boiled  eggs.  Graham  gems. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Wheat  bread. 

Collared  head.  Red  pepper  jelly. 

Scalloped  potatoes. 

Cheese  fritters. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Puree  maigre. 

Veal  cutlets,  lemon  sauce. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Paradise  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Cheese  Fritters — Slice  thin  half  a  dozen  large  tart  apples, 
and  prepare  half  as  many  thin  slices  of  nice  cheese.  Beat  up 
two  eggs  and  season  with  one  saltspoonful  each  of  salt  and 
mustard  and  a  very  small  pinch  of  pepper.  Lay  the 
slices  of  cheese  to  soak  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  mixture,  then 
put  each  slice  between  two  slices  of  apples,  sandwich  style,  and 
dip  the  whole  into  the  eggs,  then  fry  in  hot  butter  like  oysters, 
and  serve  very  hot.  These  fritters  are  an  addition  to  any  lunch 
table. 

Collared  Head — Take  four  pigs'  tongues  with  a  little  fat  to 
each,  salt  them  for  about  a  week,  then  boil  until  quite  tender, 
when  the  skins  may  be  easily  taken  off;  after  one  has  been 
skinned,  put  it  into  the  pot  again  to  keep  it  hot,  when  all  are 
skinned  cut  them  up  and  mix  with  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt, 
pepper  and  sage.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  dish,  pour  in  some  of 
the  liquor  to  fill  up  the  little  spaces,  and  then  press  with  a  heavy 
weight  until  cold. 

Red  Pepper  Jelly — Mash  ripe  red  peppers,  place  the  pods  in 
an  earthen  jar  which  must  be  set  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  and 
boiled  until  the  juice  is  entirely  extracted.  To  every  pint  of 
juice  allow  r.  pound  of  sugar,  and  boil  until  it  ropes  well.  Put 
in  small  tumblers.     This  jelly  is  very  nice  for  cold  meats. 

Puree  Maigre — One  turnip,  one  carrot,  half  an  onion,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  cabbage,  half  a  can  of  tomatoes,  half  a  cup 
of  rav/  rice,  stalk  of  celery,  chopped,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, cut  up  in  two  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley, 
one  quart  of  cold  water,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  one  teaspoon- 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  495 

ful  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk.  Pare  and  grate  turnip  and  carrot. 
Peel  and  slice  the  onion  and  parboil  with  the  cabbage  for  twenty 
minutes,  throwing  the  water  away.  Soak  the  rice  for  two  hours. 
Put  all  the  vegetables  except  the  tomatoes,  with  the  rice  and  cold 
water,  into  the  soup  kettle;  cover  and  stew  gently  for  an  hour 
after  the  boil  is  reached.  Add  the  tomatoes,  simmer  for  half  an 
hour,  and  rub  through  a  colander.  Return  to  the  fire,  stir  to  a 
boil,  add  the  floured  butter,  boil  up  a  little  faster  and  stir  in  the 
milk,  scalding  hot,  first  adding  a  tiny  bit  of  soda.  Season  and 
pour  out.  It  should  not  boil  after  the  milk  is  added.  Be  care- 
ful not  to  let  the  puree  "catch"  in  cooking. 

Veal  Cutlets  with  Lemon  Sauce — Dip  each  cutlet  in  a  beaten 
egg,  then  in  peppered  and  salted  cracker  dust,  and 
fry  in  hot  dripping  to  a  rich  golden  brown.  Lay  each 
as  it  is  done  on  paper  to  absorb  the  grease.  Arrange  on  a  hot 
dish  and  put  on  every  cutlet  a  generous  spoonful  oi  sauce.  Make 
it  by  beating  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to  a  cream  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  pars- 
ley. 

Paradise  Pudding — Three  pared  apples  chopped  fine,  half  cup 
of  currants,  half  cup  of  sugar,  two  of  bread  crumbs,  three  eggs, 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Mix,  put  in  a  well-floured 
pudding  bag  and  boil  one  and  a  half  hours;  serve  with  liquid 
sauce.  Miss  A.  Caskey. 

Burlington,  Wis. 


THURSDAY,  OCTOBER   THE  TWENTY-EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Minced    veal — tomato    sauce. 

Toasted  graham  crackers. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Salad  of  cottage  cheese. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Apple  fritters. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Clear  broth,  with  vermicelli. 

Corned  leg  of  mutton,  with  potatoes  and  cucumber  catchup. 

Baked  cauliflower,  with  cheese. 

Stewed  apricots.  Sunshine  cake. 

Coffee. 


496  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

Allow  cold  water  to  run  over  the  grapes  a  moment  before 
they  are  sent  to  the  table. 

Tomato  Sauce — Take  a  full  cup  of  cold,  stewed  tomatoes  left 
over  from  yesterday's  dinner,  strain  them  to  remove  the  seeds. 
Thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  worked  smoothly  in,  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt,  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  butter  size  of  walnut. 
When  this  has  simmered  a  moment  pour  over  the  platter  on 
which  the  chops  have  been  attractively  arranged. 

Graham  Crackers — Get  the  unsweetened  graham  crackers; 
toast  carefully  or  they  will  become  too  brown.  Butter  when  hot 
and  crisp. 

Salad  of  Cottage  Cheese — Pare  two  fresh,  crisp  cucumbers; 
cut  in  four  pieces  the  long  way,  avoiding  part  of  the  seeds;  then 
cut  in  blocks  half  an  inch  thick.  Mold  the  cottage  cheese  into 
round  balls  size  of  walnut;  put  on  lettuce  leaves  on  platter.  Be- 
tween the  cheese  balls  sprinkle  about  the  cucumber  blocks.  Serve 
over  this  a  French  dressing — two  tablespoons  salad  oil  to  one  of 
vinegar,  half  teaspoon  salt.  A  few  English  walnuts,  slightly 
minced,  are  also  an  addition  to  this  dainty  relish. 

Apple  Fritters — Make  a  batter  of  one  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
quarter  teaspoon  of  salt,  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  pint  flour. 
Beat  eggs  separately,  add  yolks  to  the  soft  batter;  add  the  whites 
last  thing.  Cut  tart,  juicy  apples  into  thin  slices  until  you  have 
a  pint.  Stir  into  the  batter,  lightly,  drop  by  the  large  tablespoon- 
ful  into  boiling  hot  lard;  cook  a  light  brown,  dust  with  pow- 
dered sugar  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

Clear  Broth,  with  Vermicelli — Use  two  pounds  of  veal,  slice 
of  lean  ham,  tablespoonful  of  fine  lump  tapioca,  one  minced 
onion,  heaping  teaspoonful  salt,  half  teaspoonful  pepper.  Allow 
this  to  simmer  for  two  and  a  half  hours.  Strain,  return  to  pot, 
break  up  a  cupful  of  vermicelli,  add,  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 
Throw  a  spoonful  of  minced  parsley  into  tureen  just  before 
serving. 

Corned  Leg  of  Mutton — Choose  a  large  leg  of  fine  mutton, 
and  have  it  nicely  corned  by  your  butcher.  This  will  require 
about  ten  days  or  two  weeks.  Treat  as  if  it  were  corned  beef, 
boil  potatoes  in  the  pot  with  the  mutton.  There  will  be  enough 
cold  meat  to  slice  for  two  days'  luncheon. 

Cucumber  Catchup — This  makes  a  delicious  relish  for  the 
corned  mutton.  Grate  twelve  cucumbers  (not  too  ripe)  and  allow 
to  drain  in  a  colander.  Mince  three  large  onions  very  fine;  mix 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  horseradish  and  same  of  white  mustard 
seed.  Pour  over  enough  real  cider  vinegar  to  make  quite  juicy. 
Do  not  cook.  This  will  keep  perfectly  for  some  time  in  a  cool 
place. 

Baked  Cauliflower,  with  Cheese — Boil  the  cauliflower  un- 
broken until  quite  tender.  Drain,  put  in  a  baking  dish,  smooth 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  a  cup  of  milk;  pour  about  the  cauli- 
flower slightly  separated.  Scatter  breadcrumbs  on  top  with  salt 
and  pepper;  grate  over  mild,  fresh  cheese  quite  thickly,  put  in 
oven  long  enough  to  thoroughly  melt  the  cheese  and  boil  the  milk. 
If  oven  is  hot — about  twenty  minutes. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  497 

Stewed  Apricots — Get  the  dried  California  apricots;  boil  un- 
til tender  in  enough  water  to  quite  cover  them.  Remove  the 
fruit.  To  a  quart  of  juice  use  a  full  cup  of  sugar;  boil  briskly  ten 
or  twelve  minutes;   pour  over  fruit.     Serve  cold. 

Sunshine  Cake — Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one-third  cup  butter,  two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Beat  thoroughly  together,  adding  white  of  eggs 
last  thing.  Can  be  baked  in  a  loaf  or  will  make  two  full  layer 
cakes.  Cora  Mclntire. 

No.  33  Buena  Terrace,  Chicago. 


FRIDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  TWENTY-NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Farina  meat  balls.        Potato  croquettes. 

Coffee.        Hot  rolls. 


LUNCHEON. 

Creamed  oysters.        Baked  potatoes. 
Molasses  cookies.        Tea. 


DINNER. 

Bisque  soup.        Baked  crackers. 

Boiled  bass — drawn  butter  sauce.         Parsleyed  potatoes. 

Asparagus  salad. 

Filled  date  compote.        Tea. 


Farina  Meat  Balls — One  pound  and  a  half  finely  ground  meat. 
Season  with  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  one-half  onion  chopped  fine, 
some  fine  chopped  parsley,  add  one  well-beaten  egg  and  one-half 
teacup  of  farina,  and  make  into  round  balls.  Stew  until  meat  is 
done  in  salted  water.  Take  out  balls  and  add  to  water  in  which 
they  have  been  cooked  one-half  cup  canned  tomatoes,  a  sprinkle 
of  cayenne  pepper  and  a  tablespoon  of  fiour  which  has  been 
smoothly  creamed  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Pour  over  the  balls  and 
serve  very  hot.    The  meat  balls  may  be  prepared  the  previous  day. 

Molasses  Cookies — One  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  one-half 
cup  butter,  one  egg,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one-half  cup  sour 
milk  in  which  one  even  teaspoon  baking  soda  has  been  dissolved, 
a  little  cinnamon  and  a  pinch  of  ground  cloves.  Enough  flour 
to  roll;  about  one  quart  is  generally  suflBcient.  These  are  very 
excellent  cookies  and  generally  favored  by  the  children. 

Parsleyed   Potatoes — Boil   potatoes   whole    (or   halved   when 


498  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD    COOK   BOOK. 

very  large)  in  salt  water.  When  done  pour  off  water  and  shake 
until  thoroughly  dried  and  floury.  Fry  in  hot  butter  until  a 
delicate  light  brown,  one  minced  onion;  pour  over  potatoes;  add 
some  fresh  parsley,  chopped  fine,  just  before  they  are  served. 

Filled  Date  Compote — Take  out  seeds  from  one-^half  pound 
of  dates  and  fill  with  some  finely  chopped  almonds  or  English 
walnuts;  press  together  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar;  lay  aside. 
Next  make  a  baked  custard  as  follows:  Yolks  of  three  eggs  well 
beaten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar,  one  pint  sweet 
milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  which  has  been  rubbed  smooth 
with  one  tablespoonful  fresh  butter;  grate  in  a  little  nutmeg; 
bake  in  a  well-buttered  pudding  dish  until  light  brown.  Take 
from  oven,  put  dates  on  top  and  cover  with  the  whites  of  three 
eggs,  beaten  until  very  stiff,  to  which  have  been  added  four  table- 
spoonfuls of  powdered  sugar  and  a  little  vanilla.  Place  in  oven 
until  light  brown.    Serve  cold.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Levey. 

No.  722  Sedgwick  Street,  Chicago. 


SATURDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  THIRTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Quaker  oats  blanc  mange. 

Breaded  sausages.  Corn  muffins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Baked  mushrooms.  Parsnip  fritters. 

Honey  cake.  Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Stuffed  braised  beef,  with  brown  sauce. 

Baked  squash.        Macaroni. 

Sweet  potato  salad,  French  dressing. 

Harvard  pudding.  Apple  and  hard  sauce. 


Quaker  Oats— Bring  one  quart  sweet  milk  to  a  boil,  add  salt- 
spoon  salt  and  stir  in  one  cupful  quaker  oats;  cook  thirty  min- 
utes. Just  before  removing  from  the  fire  stir  in  two  eggs,  very 
well  beaten.     Serve  either  hot  or  cold,  with  cream  or  sugar. 

Breaded  Sausages— Wipe  the  sausages  dry.  Dip  them  in 
beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs.  Put  them  in  the  frying  basket  and 
plunge  into  boiling  fat.  Cook  ten  minutes.  Serve  with  a  garnish 
of  toasted  bread  and  parsley. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  499 

Baked  Mushrooms — Toast  for  each  person  a  large  slice  of 
bread,  and  spread  over  with  rich,  sweet  cream;  lay  on  each  slice, 
head  downward,  a  mushroom,  or,  if  small,  more  than  one;  sea- 
son each  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  fill  each 
with  as  much  cream  as  it  will  hold.  Place  over  each  a  custard 
cup,  pressing  well  down  to  the  toast;  set  in  a  moderate  oven  and 
cook  fifteen  minutes.  Do  not  remove  the  cups  for  five  minutes 
after  they  come  from  the  oven,  as  thereby  the  flavor  of  the  mush- 
room is  preserved  in  its  entirety. 

Br.aised  Beef — Take  a  slice  from  the  top  of  the  round,  weigh- 
ing about  three  pounds,  and  cut  one  and  one-half  inches  thick. 
Season  it  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of 
pepper;  cut  gashes  in  the  top  or  upper  side  and  fill  with  stufiing. 
Roll  the  meat  up  and  skewer  it;  dredge  with  flour  and  brown  it 
in  a  frying-pan  in  some  salt  pork  fat.  Put  it  into  the  braising- 
pan,  with  one-third  of  a  cup  of  carrots  cut  into  dice,  three  slices 
of  onion  and  a  small  bit  of  bay  leaf.  Pour  on  three  cupfuls  of 
boiling  water  and  simmer  three  hours. 

Stuffing — One-third  of  a  cup  of  rolled  cracker  crumbs,  to 
which  has  been  added  a  scant  tablespoonful  butter,  a  saltspoon- 
ful  salt,  a  speck  of  pepper  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  thyme, 
summer  savory  or  sweet  marjoram,  or  such  mixed  seasoning  as 
is  liked.  Moisten  the  whole  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  milk 
or  water. 

Sauce — Brown    two    tablespoonfuls    of    butter,    adding    two 
pounding  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  stir  until  the  whole  becomes 
brown.    Pour  on  to  this  slowly  the  liquor  in  the  meat  pan,  which 
should  be  about  one  pint. 

Sweet  Potato  Salad — Boil  three  large  sweet  potatoes.  Cut 
into  half-inch  squares.  Cut  into  very  small  pieces  two  stalks  of 
celery.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  a  French 
dressing  as  follows:  Three  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil,  two  of  vine- 
gar, one  teaspoonful  onion  juice,  one  saltspoon  each  salt  and  pep- 
per. Let  salad  stand  in  refrigerator  two  hours.  Garnish  with 
pickles,  pitted  olives  and  parsley. 

Harvard  Pudding — Sift  together  two  and  one-third  cups  of 
flour,  one-half  cup  of  flne  granulated  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder  and  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Work 
into  this  with  the  tips  of  the  flngers  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  but- 
ter. Beat  one  egg  light,  add  a  cupful  of  milk  and  turn  onto  the 
dry  ingredients.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  mold  and 
steam  two  hours.  Do  not  allow  the  water  to  stop  boiling  for  an 
instant. 

Sauce — Serve  this  pudding  with  a  simple  apple  sauce  and  a 
hard  sauce.  For  the  latter  cream  one-third  of  a  cup  of  butter,  add- 
ing slowly  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice  and  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  This  com- 
bination   is    a   pleasant    change   from    either   flavor    alone. 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Sunde. 

No.  328  South  Western  Avenue,  Chicago. 


500  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

SUNDAY,  OCTOBER  THE  THIRTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Soft  boiled  eggs. 

Crisp  bacon. 

Hot  corn  cake.        Honey. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Spiced  currants. 

Cold   sliced  tongue.        Sweet  potato   balls. 

Molasses  cookies. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Ragout  of  mutton. 

Steamed  Irish  potatoes. 

Fried  green  tomatoes. 

Cocoanut  pie.  Grapes. 

Coffee. 


Ragout  of  Mutton — Three  pounds  of  mutton  without  bone; 
cut  in  strips  three  inches  long  by  one  inch  wide;  two  lamb  sweet- 
breads, one  cup  of  gravy  made  from  bones,  skin,  etc. — "trim- 
mings" of  the  meat — two  eggs,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt 
pork,  one  fried  onion,  one  cup  of  green  peas  (the  canned  will  an- 
swer the  purpose),  pepper,  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  mixed  pars- 
ley; dripping  for  frying  browned  flour.  Fry  the  onion  in  plenty 
of  dripping,  then  the  meat  for  five  minutes;  parboil  the  sweet- 
breads, throw  into  cold  water  to  blanch,  wipe  and  slice,  then  fry 
also  in  the  fat.  Lay  sliced  pork  in  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan; 
upon  this  the  mutton,  then  the  sweetbreads,  next  the  onion,  green 
peas,  then  pepper,  salt  and  parsley;  cover  with  gravy,  put  on  a 
close  lid;  stew  gently  for  one  hour  after  the  boil  sets  in.  Take 
up  the  meat  and  sweetbreads,  thicken  gravy  with  browned  flour, 
pour  it  on  two  beaten  eggs,  stir  one  minute  over  the  fire  and  pour 
upon  the  meat  and  serve. 

Fried  Green  Tomatoes — Cut  six  large,  green  tomatoes  into 
slices  about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water.  Sprinkle  over  the  tomatoes 
some  salt  and  pepper,  dip  them  in  the  egg  and  then  in  fine  bread 
crumbs.  Fry  in  butter,  brown  thoroughly  on  both  sides,  and 
serve  with  a  gravy  made  as  follows:  Rub  together  one  table- 
spoonful of  flour  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  when  well 
creamed,  brown  in  the  pan;  add  a  half  pint  of  boiling  milk,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  it  begins  to  thicken;  then  add  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  501 

Cocoanut  Pie — For  a  pie  put  a  cup  of  grated  cocoanut  to  soak 
over  night  if  it  is  desiccated  (if  fresh  it  need  not  soak),  place  in  a 
coffee  cup  and  fill  with  milk.  When  ready  to  bake  take  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  mix  it  with  a  cup  of  milk  or  water,  place 
on  the  stove  in  a  tin  pail  placed  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  stir 
until  it  thickens;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  while  warm, 
when  cool  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  sugar  to  taste; 
add  the  cocoanut,  beating  all  together,  fill  the  crust  and  bake. 
When  done  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar,  spread  on  top,  return  to  the  oven  and  brown 
slightly.  Nannie  K.  Van  Keuren. 

No.  412  South  Boulevard,  Oak  Park,  111. 


MONDAY,   NOVEMBER    THE   FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Rice. 

Ham.        Eggs  with  milk.        Baked  potatoes. 

Yorkshire  breakfast  cake  (genuine  "turn  cake"). 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Ham  salad. 

Hot  Boston  brown  bread. 

English  breakfast  tea.        Apple  preserves. 


DINNER. 

Bean  soup. 

Squirrel  pie.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Baked  tomatoes. 

Celery.  Coffee. 


Rice — One  cup  of  rice,  one  teaspoonf ul  of  salt,  one  tablespoon- 
ful butter,  one  quart  of  boiling  water.  Cook  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Eggs  with  Milk — One  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  butter, 
one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  pinch  of  white  pepper.  Let  milk  come  to 
a  boil,  then  stir  in  four  well-beaten  eggs;  stir  very  gently  three 
minutes.     Much  better  than  any  omelet. 

Yorkshire  Cake — Three  cups  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing powder,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk. 
Roll  out  about  an  inch  thick  and  spread  on  hot  griddle.  Cover 
with  a  basin  and  turn  in  ten  minutes.  Cover  again  and  bake 
ten  minutes  more.  A  delicious  breakfast  cake — as  every  York- 
shireman  will  attest. 

Apple  Preserve — Six  large  apples,  peeled,  quartered  and  each 


502  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

quarter  cut  a  second  time;  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  two-thirds 
of  a  cup  of  sugar;  drop  apples  in  this  sirup  and  cook  until 
tender;  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  lemon  peel  may  be  added. 

Ham  Salad — One  cup  of  cold  ham  chopped  (from  which  all 
fat  has  been  cut  away),  one  cup  of  sliced  cucumber  pickles,  three 
hard-boiled  eggs.  Arrange  ham  and  cucumbers  in  layers,  sav- 
ing sliced  eggs  for  top;  pour  cream  dressing  over;  garnish  with 
olives  (looks  well  with  only  the  eggs  for  garnish),  and  is  sure 
to  be  liked  by  the  masculine  part  of  the  family. 

Cream  Dressing — One  tablespoonful  butter,  one  of  mustard, 
one  of  sugar  (may  be  omitted),  one  teaspoonful  flour,  a  little  red 
pepper,  yolk  of  one  egg,  one  cup  vinegar.  Heat  vinegar  and  but- 
ter together;  when  boiling  stir  in  other  ingredients  that  have  been 
previously  well  mixed.  Cook  three  minutes.  A  nice  dressing  and 
will  keep  bottled  for  several  days. 

Bean  Soup — One  pint  of  beans  that  have  been  soaked  in  cold 
water  over  night,  two  quarts  cold  water,  small  slice  of  ham,  one 
small  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  saltspoon  of  pepper  and  one  of  mustard,  pinch  of  cayenne. 
Boil  slowly  all  day.  As  water  boils  away  more  should  be  added 
to  keep  quantity  the  same.  When  done  strain  through  colander, 
return  to  kettle,  bring  to  a  boil,  pour  into  hot  tureen  and  serve 
at  once.  Mrs.  J.  A.  Herron. 

No.  305  North  Walnut  Street,  Creston,  Iowa. 


TUESDAY,   NOVEMBER   THE    SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Concord  grapes. 

Steamed  hominy,  sugar  and  cream. 

Breaded  sausage.  Toasted  muffins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Blanquette  of  veal. 

Waldorf  salad    (Miss   Colling's  recipe). 

Cream  toast.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Milk   soup. 

Baked  beef  heart   (English). 

Riced  potatoes.  Stewed  celery. 

Cheese  fritters. 

Boston  cream  pie.  Black  coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  503 

Breaded  Sausage — Wipe  dry  one  pound  of  "little  pig"  sausage. 
Brown  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs  in  the  oven  and  beat  one  egg  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  cold  water.  Dip  the  sausages  in  the  egg  and  then 
in  the  bread  crumbs;  place  them  in  a  frying-basket  and  plunge  it 
into  boiling  fat;  cook  for  ten  minutes  and  serve  with  a  garnish 
of  toasted  bread  points. 

Toasted  Muffins — The  muffins  are  supposed  to  be  at  least  twen- 
ty-four hours  old;  and  to  toast  them  in  the  English  fashion  they 
must  be  broken  all  around  the  edge  as  if  one  intended  to  split 
them,  then  toasted  on  both  sides  until  the  crust  will  crack  under 
the  thumb  nail.  Tear  them  open  quickly,  put  a  bountiful  supply 
of  small  pieces  of  butter  on  the  inside  of  each  half,  close  it  and 
place  in  the  oven  while  the  remainder  are  being  toasted. 

Blanquette  of  Veal — Melt  three  level  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter; add  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  stir  in  gradually 
one  cup  of  milk;  add  one  and  a  half  cups  of  cold  veal  cut  in  dice, 
the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  and  the  whites  cut 
in  small  pieces.  Cook  for  three  minutes.  Season  with  one-fourth 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  of  a  saltspoonful  of  white  pep- 
per and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne,  and  serve  at  once. 

Waldorf  Salad  (Miss  Colling's  recipe) — A  half-pint  of  sour, 
crisp  apples,  sliced  and  then  cut  in  small  squares,  and  an  equal 
quantity  of  crisp  celery  cut  in  half-inch  pieces.  Sprinkle  with  a 
half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and  pour  over  it  a  half-pint  of  mayonnaise 
dressing,  mixing  thoroughly  with  a  silver  fork.  Make  a  mound 
of"the  salad  in  the  center  of  a  pretty  china  tray,  garnish  with  the 
celery  tops  and  serve. 

Milk  Soup — Mash  through  the  colander  two  good-sized  boiled 
potatoes.  Cut  one  medium-sized  onion  in  slices,  place  the  slices 
on  top  of  each  other  and  cut  in  strips.  Add  the  potato  and  onion 
— together  with  a  half-dozen  whole  allspice  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  tapioca — to  three  pints  of  cold  water  and  cook  until  the  onion 
is  tender.  Then  add  one  pint  of  boiling  milk,  one  rounded  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  saltspoon- 
ful of  white  pepper.  Let  it  boil  up  once  and  serve  with  salted 
wafers. 

The  ordinary  soup  plate,  properly  filled  for  serving,  holds  a 
half-pint,  so  that  three  pints  of  soup  would  be  sufficient  quan- 
tity for  five;  but  three  pints  of  water  are  used  in  order  to  allow 
for  the  "boiling  away"  that  always  occurs. 

Baked  Beef  Heart — See  that  the  butcher  removes  the  gristle 
and  the  "deaf  ears,"  as  the  tough,  red  lobe  at  the  top  is  called. 
Then  lay  the  heart  in  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour,  keeping  it 
just  simmering.  When  thus  parboiled,  dry  it  well  and  fill  the  three 
holes  with  a  stuffing  made  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  beef  suet, 
chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  one-fourth  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Fill  the  heart  full 
of  the  stuffing,  but  do  not  press  it  in  tight.  Skewer  over  the  top 
three  thin  slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  dredge  it  with  flour,  and  bake  it 
one  hour  and  a  half  in  a  good  oven.    If  you  have  it,  make  a  half- 


504  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

glassful  of  red  currant  jelly  very  hot  and  serve  with  the  heart  as 
sauce.  The  platter  and  plates  must  be  very  hot,  and  the  heart 
covered  as  it  goes  to  table.  The  next  day,  should  any  of  the  heart 
remain,  it  can  be  warmed  over  by  cutting  it  into  slices  and  gently 
stewing  it  in  a  rich  gravy.  It  is  thought  by  some  to  be  nicer  than 
venison  prepared  in  this  way. 

Cheese  Fritters — Rub  together  three  ounces  of  flour  and  one 
ounce  of  butter.  Add  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of 
cayenne;  then  stir  in  by  degrees  a  half-cup  of  tepid  water;  then 
three  ounces  of  grated  cheese  is  added  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
and,  lastly,  the  white  of  the  egg  beaten  very  stiff.  Drop  the  mix- 
ture by  spoonfuls  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  cotosuet  and  cook  three 
minutes.  The  result  should  be  delicious,  golden-brown  balls  as  big 
as  one's  fist,  permeated  with  the  flavor  of  cheese. 

Mrs.  Charles  L.  West. 

No.  1151  Jackson  Boulevard,  Chicago. 


WEDNESDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

fruits. 

Hominy  grits  with  cream. 

Brown  buttered  eggs.  Whole  wheat  puffs. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Walled  chicken.  Lettuce  sandwiches. 

Fruit  gingerbread. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Shoulder  of  lamb  a  la  Parisienne. 

Baked  sweet  potatoes.      Celery. 

French  peas.      Rolls. 

Orange  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Brown  Buttered  Eggs — In  a  small  stew-pan  put  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  let  it  cook  until  very  dark — almost  black. 
Then  drop  in  quickly  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tarragon  vinegar,  and 
let  it  cook  for  a  moment  longer;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  and  set  where  it  will  keep  warm.  In  a  small  buttered  bak- 
ing dish  drop  four  eggs,  sprinkle  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and 
set  in  the  oven  to  bake.  When  the  whites  are  set  remove  from 
the  oven,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  top  and  serve. 

Whole  Wheat  Puffs— Put  the  yolk  of  an  egg  into  a  basin,  and 
beat  the  white  in  a  separate  dish  to  a  stiff  froth.    Add  to  the  yolk 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  505 

one-half  a  cup  of  rather  thin  cream  and  one  cupful  of  skim  milk, 
and  a  half-saltspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  the  egg,  cream  and  milk 
together  until  perfectly  mingled  and  foaming  with  air-bubbles; 
then  add  gradually,  beating  well  at  the  same  time,  one  pint  of 
wheat  flour;  continue  the  beating  vigorously  and  without  interrup- 
tion for  eight  or  ten  minutes.  Then  stir  in  lightly  the  white  of  the 
egg,  and  turn  at  once  into  heated,  shallow  irons,  and  bake  for  half 
an  hour  in  moderately  quick  oven. 

Sweet  Gingerbread — One  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  one-third 
of  a  cupful  of  butter,  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful 
of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Stir  thoroughly 
and  add  one  cupful  of  boiling  water  in  which  has  been  dissolved 
one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Then  add  two  eggs,  well  beaten, 
and  one-half  cupful  each  of  seeded  raisins  and  orange  peel  chopped 
fine.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Shoulder  of  Lamb,  a  la  Parisienne — Have  the  butcher  bone  the 
meat  neatly.  Prepare  a  stuffing  of  four  ounces  of  bread  crumbs, 
two  ounces  of  raw  veal,  chopped  fine,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter melted,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Mix  all  to- 
gether and  stuff  the  meat  with  it.  Roast  in  a  quick  oven.  Into 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  softened  (not  melted)  butter  mix  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  chopped  parsley  shallots,  lemon  juice  and  beef 
extract.  Draw  the  meat  when  done  from  the  oven,  spread  it  with 
the  prepared  sauce  and  return  it  to  the  oven  just  long  enough  to 
melt  it.    Garnish  with  small,  round,  fried  potatoes. 

Orange  Pudding — To  one  quart  of  milk  add  one-half  of  a  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  mixed  with  a  little 
cold  water,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Grate  the  rind  and  press  out 
the  juice  of  three  oranges.  Scald  the  milk,  add  the  cornstarch, 
then  the  sugar  and  eggs.  Boil  for  three  minutes.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  spread  over  the 
pudding  and  brown  slightly  in  the  oven. 

Chippewa  Falls,  Wis.  Mrs.  E.  W.  Condit. 


THURSDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Boiled  sweet  apples. 

Crisped  bacon.        Potatoes  in  cream  sauce. 

Corn  cakes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Potted  ham. 

Hot  biscuit.  Honey. 

Tea. 


506  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Sago  soup. 

Chicken,  with  mushrooms. 

Potato  croquettes. 

Dates  in  cream. 

Coffee. 


Boiled  Sweet  Apples — Wash  one  dozen  sweet  apples;  put  in 
a  porcelain  saucepan,  with  one  cup  of  sugar  and  hot  water  enough 
to  half  cover.  Cook  until  the  apples  may  be  pierced  with  a  fork, 
which  will  be  about  one-half  hour.  Take  out  the  apples,  pour 
the  sirup  over  them.    Eat  cold.    Enough  for  two  meals. 

Corn  Batter  Cakes — One  and  one-half  cups  white  cornmeal, 
sifted  with  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Add  one  cup  of  boiled  rice  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lard.  Mix  all  to- 
gether and  scald  with  two  cups  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly. 
Thin  with  one  and  one-half  cups  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful soda  dissolved  in  milk;  last  stir  one  beaten  egg  and  bake  on 
hot  greased  griddle. 

Potted  Ham^The  scraps  from  a  boiled  ham  may  be  utilized 
for  a  small  jar  of  potted  meat.  Chop  all  the  scraps  very  fine,  re- 
moving all  the  gristle  and  hard,  dry  pieces.  Pound  it  to  a  paste 
in  a  mortar,  or  a  wooden  chopping  bowl,  and  a  potato  masher  may 
be  used.  Measure  the  paste,  and  to  every  half-pint  add  a  half- 
teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  half  a  saltspoon  of  cayenne.  If  dry, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter.  Pack  tightly  into  small  earth- 
en cups.  Paste  papers  over  them,  lay  covers  over  the  papers  and 
set  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water.  Bake  slowly  one  hour. 
Remove  the  covers,  and,  if  it  is  to  be  kept  a  length  of  time,  pour 
melted  fat  over  the  top  of  meat.    Eat  cold,  sliced  very  thin. 

Chicken,  with  Mushrooms — Have  ready  one  pound  of  cold 
cooked  chicken,  cut  in  dice,  and  one-half  pint  of  mushrooms,  cut 
in  small  pieces.  Cover  mushrooms  with  hot  water  and  cook  five 
minutes.  Skim  out  into  a  hot  dish.  Add  enough  milk  to  the 
liquid  to  make  a  coffeecupful.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  rubbed  smooth  in  the  same  quantity  of  butter.  Season  with 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  half  as  much  white  pepper.  Add  the 
chicken  and  mushrooms  and  cook  two  minutes  longer,  stirring 
constantly.    Serve  on  hot  platter. 

Dates  in  Cream — Remove  the  stones  from  one-half  pound  of 
dates.  Cut  the  dates  fine  and  put  them  in  a  glass  dish.  Cover 
with  two  cupfuls  of  whipped  cream  and  let  stand  in  a  cold  place 
one-half  hour  before  serving.  Mrs.  Carrie  Lawton. 

Box  268,  Delavan,  Wis. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  507 

FRIDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Boiled  oats,  sugar  and  cream. 

Beefsteak  fried  with  onions. 

Beaten  biscuit. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  tongue  sliced.        Cheese  crackers. 
Ginger  cakes.        Cider. 


DINNER. 

Peanut  soup. 

Baked  whitefish.        Mashed  potatoes. 

Stewed  mushrooms. 

Southern    corndodgers. 

Cornstarch  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Southern  Corndodgers — Mix  into  a  pint  of  white  cornmeal  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  lard,  and  enough  water  to 
make  a  stiff  batter  of  it.  Make  into  small  pones  and  bake  in  the 
oven  until  light  brown.  Elizabeth  Bacon. 

No.  5  Madison  Street,  Memphis,  Tenn. 


SATURDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

White  grapes. 

Granose  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Liver  and  bacon.  Hominy  griddle  cakes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cold  meat  and  tomato  pie. 

Potato  split  biscuit. 

Baked  apples  with  hot  sauce. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Mushroom  soup. 

Panned  rabbit  with  currant  jelly. 

Creamed  potatoes.        Browned  parsnips. 

Turnip  salad. 

Lemon  pudding.       Coffee. 


508  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

Hominy  Griddle  Cakes— One  cup  of  left-over  hominy  por- 
ridge, warmed,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  egg,  two  cups  of  milk,  one 
cup  of  water,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt.    Fry  on  a  greased  griddle. 

Potato  Split  Biscuit — Boil  two  large  Irish  potatoes;  while  hot 
mash  well.  Stir  into  the  hot  potatoes  a  tablespoonful  each  of  but- 
ter and  lard,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  when  cool  enough 
not  to  cook  them,  two  well-beaten  eggs;  to  this  add  a  teacup- 
ful  of  milk,  in  which  has  been  dissolved  one-half  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Stir  in  a  quart  of 
sifted  flour;  cover,  and  leave  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  This 
should  be  mixed  in  the  morning.  One  hour  before  luncheon  turn 
out  on  a  biscuit  board  and  with  just  enough  flour  to  handle  roll 
out  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter;  place  them  one  on  lop  of  an- 
other (like  a  sandwich)  in  a  baking-pan;  let  them  rise  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Baked  Apples  with  Hot  Sauce — In  baking  apples  for  hot 
sauce,  simply  remove  the  cores;  stand  the  apples  in  a  baking 
dish;  put  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  into  the  spaces  from  which  the 
cores  were  taken;  add  a  half  cup  of  water  and  bake  until  soft. 
Beat  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  four  of  powdered  sugar  to- 
gether until  light.  Dish  the  apples  and  turn  the  hot  sauce  from 
baking  dish  into  the  butter  and  sugar;  then  add  a  cup  of  boil- 
ing water.  Stir  carefully  over  the  fire  for  just  an  instant;  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  pour  over  the  apples. 

Mushroom  Soup — Pick  and  peel  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of 
mushrooms;  wash  them  thoroughly,  and  cut  them  up  into  dice. 
Stew  them  in  half  a  pint  of  seasoned  veal  or  chicken  broth.  Add 
to  this  one  quart  of  good  seasoned  soup  stock;  thicken  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  rubbed  into  one  tablespoonful  of  butter; 
season  with  one  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  one-half  as  much  pepper. 

Panned  Rabbit — Cut  a  large,  fat  rabbit  in  halves;  place  in 
a  baking  pan;  spread  with  bits  of  butter;  dust  with  a  half  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  and  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  set  in  a 
quick  oven  to  bake  for  one  hour.  When  done,  take  up;  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  to  the  fat  in  the  pan;  mix  well;  pour  in 
half  a  pint  of  hot  water;  let  come  to  a  boil;  season  with  one- 
half  teaspoonful  salt  and  one-fourth  saltspoonful  pepper  and  pour 
around  the  rabbit.    Serve  with  currant  jelly. 

Turnip  Salad — Peel  and  slice  very  thin  four  tender  young  tur- 
nips; cut  up  two  small,  white  onions.  Line  a  salad-bowl  with 
lettuce  leaves;  put  in  the  turnips  and  onions;  pour  on  them  a 
pint  of  plain  salad  dressing.     Mix  lightly  and  serve  very  cold. 

Lerpon  Pudding — Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroons  in 
a  pint  of  milk  to  soak  until  soft.  Beat  four  eggs  with  half  a 
cupful  of  powdered  sugar  until  light,  and  stir  into  the  milk.  Beat 
the  whole  until  thick  and  smooth;  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  two  lemons.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  pudding  mold;  cover, 
and  stand  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water  to  boil  for  one  hour.  Serve 
with  lemon  sauce. 

Lemon  Sauce — Put  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  into  a  bowl, 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  509 

with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Beat 
well;  pour  over  a  large  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  over  the 
fire  until  thick.  Take  up;  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon.  Mrs.  Lucy  J.  McChesney. 

Charleston,  Kanawha,  W.  Va. 


SUNDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  quinces. 

Steamed  eggs.  Waffles. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Princess  potatoes.        Oyster  macaroni. 

Sea-foam  sandwiches. 

Blackberry-jam  cake.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Roast  duck,  with  baked  apples. 

Mashed  potatoes.    Celery. 

Lima  beans.  French  puff  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Steamed  Eggs — Butter  five  patty  pans  and  break  an  egg  in 
each  one.  Place  in  a  steamer  and  set  over  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water;  steam  till  the  whites  are  cooked.  Take  out  on  a  hot  plat- 
ter, sprinkle  over  with  one  small  half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  pour  over  all  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  melted  butter. 

Oyster  Macaroni — Break  enough  macaroni  into  inch  pieces 
to  fill  a  pint  cup.  Put  in  a  saucepan  and  cover  with  boiling 
water.  Keep  at  the  boiling  point  till  tender  (twenty  or  thirty 
minutes).  Have  ready  one  pint  of  oysters,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  half  a  cupful  of  cream.  Drain  the 
macaroni,  and  put  a  layer  in  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle  over 
a  little  of  the  salt  and  pepper,  little  dots  of  butter  and  a  little 
cream;  then  a  layer  of  the  oysters,  and  another  of  the  macaroni, 
with  more  of  the  seasoning.  Sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  over  the 
top,  add  little  bits  of  butter  and  a  little  more  cream  or  rich  milk, 
if  necessary.  Put  a  cover  over  the  dish  and  bake  till  nearly  done; 
then  remove  cover  and  continue  baking  till  a  delicate  brown. 

Sea-Foam  Sandwiches — Spread  crisp  sea-foam  wafers  with 
butter  and  a  sprinkling  of  grated  cheese  and  very  finely  chopped 


510  THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

celery  or  olives.    Place  two  together  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  till 
ready  to  serve. 

Blackberry-Jam  Cake — Rub  to  a  cream  one-half  of  a  cupful  of 
butter,  gradually  add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
and  the  whites  of  two  (reserve  the  other  white  for  frosting),  one- 
half  a  cupful  of  sour  milk  or  thin  cream,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda,  one  level  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and 
allspice,  two  scant  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  and  one  cupful  of 
thick  blackberry  jam  or  preserves. 

Roast  Duck  with  Baked  Apples — Take  a  young  duck  that 
weighs  about  four  pounds;  singe  and  wash  quickly;  wipe  dry, 
and  rub  both  the  inside  and  outside  of  the  fowl  with  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon  (reserve  the  other  half  for  the  pudding  sauce); 
then  fill  with  a  dressing  made  of  three  cupfuls  of  light  but  stale 
bread  crumbs,  one  large  cookingspoonful  of  softened  butter,  one 
small  onion  minced  fine,  one  large  sour  apple  cut  in  rather  thick 
slices,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per; mix  all,  place  in  the  fowl,  sew  up  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  till 
tender,  basting  often.  (Two  or  three  very  thin  slices  of  bacon 
laid  on  any  fowl  when  put  in  the  roasting  pan  improves  the  flavor 
and  color.)    Serve  with  tart  baked  apples. 

French  Puff  Pudding — One-third  cupful  of  butter,  one  small 
teacupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  teacupful  of 
sweet  milk,  two  teacupfuls  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda 
and  one  slightly  heaping  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar.  Put  the 
batter  in  muffin  rings  or  gem  pans  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven; 
take  out  on  a  hot  platter,  and  when  ready  to  serve  pour  over  a 
sauce  made  of  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  with 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  softened  butter.  Put  in  a  saucepan,  add 
one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  boiling  water 
and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon. 

Miss  Susan  Sawyer. 

Matron  State  School,  Coldwater,  Mich. 


MONDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal  with  cream. 

Fried  mushrobms.       Buttered  toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Wheat  bread. 

Cold  sliced  meat  with  East  Indian  sauce. 

California  fig  cake. 

Tea. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  511 

DINNER. 

Puree  of  bean  soup. 

Broiled  veal  steak.      Baked  potatoes. 

Rice  tafile. 

Coffee. 


Fried  Mushrooms — Take  large,  firm  mushrooms;  remove  the 
stems  and  peel.  Roll  in  meal  and  fry  in  boiling  fat.  Sprinkle  with 
salt,  and  squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice  over  them.  Serve  imme- 
diately. 

East  Indian  Sauce — Chop  fine  a  half -handful  of  green  mint; 
put  into  a  bowl;  add  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  rub  into  a  paste, 
Take  one  large,  green  pepper;  chop  it  fine;  put  it  into  another 
bowl;  add  a  little  lemon  juice  and  rub  to  a  paste.  Empty  the 
bowl  of  mint  into  the  bowl  of  green  pepper;  mix  thoroughly,  add- 
ing a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  fine  white  sugar 
and  more  lemon  juice,  until  a  thick  green  liquid  is  produced.  Stir 
this  constantly;  pour  into  a  shallow  dish  and  serve.  This  sauce 
must  be  used  as  soon  as  made,  otherwise  its  fragrancy  and 
piquancy  will  be  lost.  This  is  an  excellent  sauce  for  cold  meats, 
fowl  or  game. 

California  Fig  Cake — One-half  teacupful  of  butter,  one  tea- 
cupful-of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  teacupfuls  of  flour,  three  eggs,  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a  half  pound  of  figs.  Open  the 
figs;  spread  them  upon  a  dish  and  put  in  the  oven  a  few  moments 
to  soften.  Mix  the  batter  and  pour  half  of  it  into  a  square  pan. 
Spread  the  figs  over  the  surface;  then  add  the  remainder  of  the 
batter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Spread  a  thick  layer  of  boiled 
icing  over  the  cake. 

Broiled  Veal  Steaks — These  are  delicious  broiled  as  beef- 
steak over  a  hot  fire.  The  steak  should  be  cut  about  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick  to  cook  quickly  through,  and  when  taken  up  on 
a  heated  platter  should  be  spread  with  a  little  butter  and  sprink- 
led with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Or,  place  three  pounds  of  veal 
steak,  cut  in  the  ordinary  manner,  in  a  pan  with  a  lump  of  butter, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  sprinkled  light- 
ly over  it,  also  a  little  flour,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  half  an 
hour.    This  is  truly  delicious. 

Rice  Tafile — One  cup  of  rice;  cooked  tender  in  one  quart  rich 
milk;  take  from  stove  and  add  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  of 
sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  pare  and  round  out  the  cores  of  six 
good  cooking  apples;  place  in  a  deep  pudding  dish;  put  one  tea- 
spoonful of  jelly  in  each  cavity,  with  the  same  quantity  of  thick, 
sweet  cream.  Pour  the  rice  between  and  around  the  apples  and 
bake  until  apples  are  tender.  Beat  whites  of  the  eggs  with  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar;  add  a  little  lemon  juice;  spread  over  the  top, 
and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown.  To  be  eaten  with  cream,  if  de- 
sired. Miss  A.  Caskey. 

Burlington,  Wis. 


512  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

TUESDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 
Granola,  cream,  sugar. 
Frizzled  meat.  Fried  mush. 

Rye  muffins.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Sausage  rolls.  Baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Soft  gingerbread.      Cranberry  sauce.      Tea. 


DINNER. 

Stewed  squirrels.      Mashed  potatoes. 

Celery  salad. 

Quince  souffle.      Coffee. 


Frizzled  Meat — Take  meat  that  is  too  tough  to  boil,  put  on 
ice  and  freeze;  then  shave  in  small  pieces;  have  a  hot  griddle  or 
frying-pan,  grease  and  put  on  the  meat;  turn  quickly;  then  salt, 
pepper  and  serve  with  gravy. 

Stewed  Squirrels — Three  fine  gray  squirrels,  skinned  and 
cleaned;  joint  as  you  would  chickens  for  fricassee;  half-pound  of 
fat  salt  pork,  one  onion  (if  liked)  sliced,  half-can  of  corn,  half- 
can  of  tomatoes,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
four  sprigs  of  parsley,  enough  water  to  cover  squirrels.  Put  on 
squirrels,  pork  (cut  up  small),  onion  and  parsley  in  the  water 
and  bring  to  boil.  When  this  has  lasted  ten  minutes,  put  in  corn 
and  stew  until  squirrels  are  tender.  Then  add  tomatoes,  and  twen- 
ty minutes  later  stir  in  butter  and  flour.  Simmer  ten  minutes, 
and  serve  in  a  deep  dish. 

Quince  Souffle — Stew  three  or  four  quinces  soft,  sweeten  and 
pass  through  a  colander.  Pour  into  a  glass  dish  and  cover  with 
a  custard  made  of  one  pint  of  milk,  three  egg  yolks  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Whip  whites  of  eggs  light  with  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  heap  on  top. 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Sunde. 

No.  328  South  Western  Avenue,  Chicago. 


WEDNESDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  TENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Dates  with  hot  wheatlet  and  milk. 

Baked  eggs  with  gravy  toast. 

Coffee. 


tHE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  513 

LUNCHEON. 

Fish  sandwiches.      Cold  slaw. 

Sally  Lunn.         Tomato  figs. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Puree  of  chestnuts.     Celery. 

English  mutton  chops.         Mashed  potatoes. 

Baked  squash.  Quince  fluff. 

Coffee. 


Dates  with  Wheatlet — Wash,  stone  and  chop  one  cupful  of 
dates.  Prepare  the  wheatlet  and  just  before  serving  add  the 
dates.    Serve  hot,  with  milk. 

Baked  Eggs — Butter  a  shallow  pudding  dish  or  large  plate 
lightly,  and  drop  into  it  five  or  six  eggs;  season  with  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Pour  over  them  a  small  cup  of  good,  well- 
seasoned  gravy  and  bake  till  the  whites  are  firm — about  seven  min- 
utes. 

Fish  Sandwiches — Fish  sandwiches  may  be  made  from  bits  of 
cold  fish  left  over;  it  only  takes  a  little  for  a  pretty,  open  sand- 
wich. Put  the  fish  into  a  bowl,  and  with  the  back  of  a  spoon  mash 
or  rub  it  well,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  a  sprinkle  of  salt 
and  pepper;  have  the  bread  cut  into  rounds  and  spread  thickly 
with  the  fish;  have  ready  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs 
pressed  through  a  sieve;  garnish  the  tops  of  the  sandwiches  with 
the  egg  and  serve.  These  sandwiches  are  open — that  is,  the  fish  is 
not  between  two  slices  of  bread. 

Tomato  Figs — Scald  and  skin  small-sized,  ripe  tomatoes,  either 
the  red  or  yellow  variety.  To  eight  pounds  of  tomatoes  add  three 
pounds  of  brown  sugar;  cook  slowly  and  carefully  in  the  sugar 
without  water  till  it  has  thoroughly  penetrated  them;  then  take 
them  out,  spread  on  plates  and  dry  them.  Pack  them  in  layers  in 
jars  or  boxes,  with  sugar  sprinkled  between. 

Puree  of  Chestnuts — Shell  one  pint  of  chestnuts,  blanch  them, 
put  them  into  a  quart  of  water,  add  one  root  of  celery  cut  into 
small  pieces,  a  slice  of  onion  and  a  bay  leaf;  cook  gently  until 
the  chestnuts  are  tender;  press  through  a  sieve  and  add  one  pint 
of  milk;  return  this  to  the  fire,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot 
which  has  been  moistened  in  a  little  cold  water;  stir  until  it 
reaches  the  boiling  point,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pep- 
per and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  serve  immediately. 

English  Chops — Purchase  thick  mutton  chops;  season  care- 
fully and  dip  into  bread  crumbs;  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat,  and 
serve  very  hot. 

Baked  Squash — Cut  open  the  squash,  take  out  the  seeds  and 
without  paring  cut  it  up  into  large  pieces;  put  the  pieces  on  tins 
or  a  dripping  pan,  place  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  and  bake  about 
an  hour.    When  done  serve  the  pieces  hot  on  a  dish,  season  with 


514  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK:  BOOKT. 

butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Squash  retains  its  sweetness  better  this 
way  than  when  boiled.  Small  Hubbard  squash  is  the  best  for 
baking. 

Quince  Puff — Pare  six  good-sized  tart  apples,  cut  them  into 
thin  slices  and  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  a  quince  also  cut 
into  thin  slices;  add  a  half-cup  of  water,  cover  the  sauce-pan  and 
cook  slowly  for  a  half -hour.  Press  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the 
fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  with  a  half-cup  of 
sugar;  take  from  the  fire  and  when  somewhat  cooled  stir  in  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  turn  into  a  pretty  dish  and  stand 
away  to  cool.  Mrs.  Charles  Adams. 

No.  25  Union  Street,  Hornellsville,  N.  Y. 


THURSDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  ELEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Pettijohn's  breakfast  food.    Fried  bacon,  cream  gravy. 

Baked  potatoes.        Bread  and  butter. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Stewed  kidneys. 

Sweet  potatoes,  fried.      Spoon  corn  bread. 

Baked  pears.      Tea  or  cocoa. 

DINNER. 

Cream  of  celery  soup. 

Stewed  beefsteak.      Creamed  carrots. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Pain  perdu. 

Fried  Bacon,  Cream  Gravy — Cut  the  bacon  very  thin  and 
fry  on  both  sides  until  the  edges  curl  up.  Remove  the  bacon,  keep 
it  hot,  and  to  the  fat  in  the  spider  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  one-half  pint  of  milk.  Stir  until  very  smooth  and  cook  five 
minutes.     Pour  over  bacon. 

Coffee — Mix  coffee  first  with  one-half  egg  and  then  with  a  lit- 
tle cold  water.  Let  stand  about  two  minutes  and  pour  boiling 
water  over  it.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil  it  is  ready  for  use.  The 
coffee  pot  should  be  hot  when  the  coffee  is  put  in  and  one  table- 
spoonful  ground  coffee  should  be  allowed  to  each  cup  of  water. 

Milk  Bread — One  pint  milk  scalded  and  cooled,  one  table- 
spoonful  butter,  m.elted  in  the  hot  milk,  one  tablespoonful  sugar, 
one  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  cup  yeast  or  one-half  yeast  cake, 
six  or  seven  cups  flour. 

Measure  the  milk  after  scalding,  and  put  it  in  the  mixing  bowl; 


I'HE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.       ^16 

add  the  butter,  sugar  and  salt.  When  cool,  add  the  yeast,  and 
then  stir  in  the  flour,  adding  it  gradually  after  five  cups  are  in, 
that  it  may  not  be  too  stiff;  use  just  enough  to  knead  it.  Knead 
till  smooth  and  elastic.  Cover;  let  it  rise  till  light;  cut  it  down; 
divide  into  four  parts;  shape  into  loaves  or  biscuit.  Let  it  rise 
again  in  the  pans.     Bake  forty  or  fifty  minutes. 

For  milk  bread  made  with  a  sponge,  use  the  same  quantities, 
but  add  only  three  cups  of  flour  for  the  first  mixing  and  beat  well. 
Let  it  rise  about  three  hours;  then  add  from  two  to  three  cups 
of  flour,  or  enough  to  knead  it  free  from  the  board;  knead  one- 
half  hour.  Let  it  rise  in  the  bowl,  and  again  after  being  shaped 
into  loaves  or  rolls,  and  bake  as  usual. 

Bread  made  up  over  night  with  a  sponge  should  have  only 
half  the  quantity  of  yeast  used  that  is  required  when  it  is  made 
up  in  the  morning. 

Bread  may  be  made  with  half  milk,  half  water,  or  all  water. 
In  the  latter  case  double  the  amount  of  butter  should  be  used  as 
given  for  milk  bread;  and  the  water  should  be  v/arm  enough  to 
melt  it  and  the  sugar  and  salt. 

Stewed  Kidneys — Cut  the  kidneys  into  small  dice  and  throw 
into  boiling  water  and  cook  one  hour;  one  dozen  will  be  enough 
for  five  persons.  Lambs'  kidneys  are  used.  Put  on  the  fire  one- 
half  pint  of  milk  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  flour  and  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper  and  stew  the  kidneys  in  this  sauce  for  ten 
minutes. 

Boil  the  sweet  potatoes  until  soft,  cut  in  slices  and  fry  a 
golden  brown  in  butter  or  drippings. 

Maryland  Spoon  Corn  Bread — Put  one  quart  of  milk  on  the 
fire,  in  a  double  boiler;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  stir  in  four  large 
kitchen  spoonfuls  of  cornmeal  and  cook  five  minutes — stirring 
all  the  time.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  once  or  twice  as  it 
cools.  When  cool  add  three  eggs  well  beaten  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  flour,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  scant  teaspoonful  salt. 
Pour  in  a  greased  dish  and  bake  thirty-five  minutes.  Serve  im- 
mediately with  napkin  around  dish. 

Celery  Soup — Take  two  large  celery  roots,  cut  up  fine  and  boil 
slowly  one  hour  in  one  pint  of  water.  Flavor  with  a  little  piece 
of  onion;  mash  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Beat  together  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  of  flour;  add  one  quart  of  milk 
and  boil  all  together  twenty  minutes,  add  one  scant  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Serve  with  one-half  pint  of 
whipped  cream  added  at  the  last  minute. 

Stewed  Beefsteak — Take  two  pounds  of  round  steak,  cut  in  five 
pieces,  season  with  one  teaspoonful  salt  and  one-half  teaspoonful 
pepper  and  spread  over  them  two  onions  chopped  fine  and  one  ta- 
blespoonful of  butter  cut  up  and  dredged  with  flour.  Put  in  a  stew- 
pan  without  water  and  cover  close.  Set  the  pan  back  where  it  can 
only  simmer — not  boil — and  cook  two  hours.  Serve  with  their  own 
gravy.  Mary  Meeker. 

No,  350  Dearborn  Avenue,  Chicago. 


516  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOiC. 

FRIDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  TWELFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas  with  orange  juice. 

Veal  kidney  omelet. 

Duchess  potatoes. 

Sally  Lunn  gems. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Stewed  tongue.  Bread  and  butter. 

Quince  delight.     Luncheon  cake.      Meringued  chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Consomme  with  egg. 

Broiled  white  fish. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Baked  onions. 

Celery.  Cheese  biscuits. 

Apple  trifle.  Coffee. 


Bananas  with  Orange  Juice — Cut  the  bananas  an  inch  thick, 
place  on  dish  and  sprinkle  over  them  one  tablespoonful  powdered 
sugar  to  four  bananas,  then  add  the  juice  of  two  oranges.  Pre- 
pare the  night  before  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Duchess  Potatoes — Peel  six  medium-sized  potatoes,  cut  into 
quarters,  cook  a  light  brown  in  hot  fat.  Make  a  batter  of  one  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Stir  in  the  po- 
tatoes and  cook  each  piece  same  as  fritters.    Very  nice. 

Stewed  Tongue — Cut  cold  boiled  tongue  into  thick  slices  and 
stew  slov/ly  in  a  rich  gravy  left  from  a  roast,  about  three  hours. 

Quince  Delight — Bake  ripe  quinces  thoroughly.  When  cold 
remove  the  skins  and  place  in  a  dish.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
serve  with  cream. 

Luncheon  Cake — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  one 
egg,  two  cups  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  soda.  Flavor  with  nut- 
meg or  to  taste.    Bake  about  half  an  hour.    Is  best  warm. 

Consomme  Soup — Take  one  soup  bone,  cut  up  one  carrot, 
onion  and  turnip  and  some  celery,  two  cloves,  four  whole  pep- 
pers, one  bay  leaf,  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  their  shells.  Mix 
all  together,  add  one  gallon  of  water.  Place  on  fire,  and  when  it 
boils  give  less  fire,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  of  a 
fresh  red  pepper.  Simmer  slowly  three  hours,  strain  through  a 
napkin,  and  serve  with  a  soft  poa.ched  egg  to  each  person. 

Cheese  Biscuits — Two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  four  large 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  two  of  grated  cheese,  a  little  cayenne  and 
salt.  Make  into  a  thin  paste  and  roll  out  very  thin,  cut  in  pieces 
four  inches  long  and  one  broad.    Bake  a  light  brown  and  serve  hot. 

Apple  Trifle — Take  four  cups  of  apples,  pared,  cored  and  sliced, 
put  into  a  dish  with  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  the  juice  of  three 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  517 

lemons  and  grated  rind  of  one.    Boil  about  two  hours,  turn  into  a 
dish  and  when  cold  pour  over  a  plain  custard.    Serve  cold. 

Mrs.  Marion  Wilson. 
No.  6407  Lexington  Avenue,  Chicago. 


SATURDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  THIRTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 

Mushroomed  cutlets. 

Cream  toast.  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Hot  rolls. 

Mexican  stew.        Potato  puff. 

Columbia  cake.        Tea. 


^  i  DINNER. 

Pumpkin  soup. 
Fried  rabbits  a  la  Creole. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

New  England  apple  pie. 

Coffee. 

Mushroomed  Cutlets — Cut  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  veal  cut- 
lets into  individual  pieces,  dust  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
one  saltspoonful  of  pepper;  dip  first  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in 
finely  chopped  mushrooms.     Fry  in  boiling  fat  until  done. 

Mexican  Stew— A  large  cupful  of  cold,  cooked  and  minced 
chicken.  Take  half  the  quantity  of  uncooked  ham  cut  in  very 
small  dice,  both  fat  and  lean,  and  fry  for  a  moment  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  add  the  chicken,  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  pars- 
ley, a  dash  of  pepper,  and  when  very  hot  stir  in  two  heaping  cup- 
fuls  of  boiled  seasoned  rice.  Toss  all  lightly  together,  and  give 
just  a  dash  of  lemon  juice. 

Columbia  Cake— Three  eggs,  one  teacupful  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  butter,  one  and  one-half  teacupfuls  flour,  half  a  teacup- 
ful of  cold  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  one  tea- 
cupful  of  chopped  hickory  nut  meats.  Beat  the  sugar  and  butter 
to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  beat  well,  add  the  water, 
then  the  flour  and  baking  powder;  mix  well,  add  the  nut  meats 
and  then  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Pumpkin  Soup— This  is  a  novelty  and  delicious.  For  one 
quart  of  soup  peel  and  chop  one-half  pint  bowl  full  of  pumpkin, 
and  a  small  head  of  celery.  Fry  them  in  a  scant  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  lightly  browned  over  the  fire,  and  then  add  one  quart  of 
boiling  water,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  half  saltspoonful 


518  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

of  pepper.  Boil  all  together  until  the  ingredients  can  be  mashed 
through  a  colander.  Return  them  to  the  saucepan  with  the  water 
used  in  boiling  them,  and  place  it  over  the  fire.  Rub  to  a  smooth 
paste  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  a  scant  tablespoonful  each  of 
iDutter  and  flour,  stir  the  paste  smoothly  into  the  soup  and  con- 
tinue the  boiling.  Cut  a  half  cupful  of  half-inch  dice  of  stale 
bread,  fry  them  brown  in  smoking  hot  fat,  and  drain.  After  the 
soup  has  boiled  until  it  is  smooth  and  creamy,  serve  in  a  tureen 
with  the  fried  bread. 

Fried  Rabbit  a  la  Creole — Skin,  clean  and  joint  two  rabbits. 
Put  a  tablespoonful  of  pork  drippings  into  a  frying-pan;  when 
hot  put  in  two  small  onions  sliced  in  rings,  and  let  fry  two  or 
three  minutes;  add  three  slices  of  fat  bacon,  the  jointed  rabbit, 
a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley  and  a  quarter  of  a  pod  of  red 
pepper  minced.  Cut  the  slices  of  bacon  in  two  pieces,  arrange 
on  a  platter,  placing  the  cooked  rabbits  on  the  bacon,  and  strew 
the  cooked  onion  over  the  rabbit. 

New  England  Apple  Pie — Use  a  deep  pie-plate.  Pare  Bald- 
win or  Greening  apples,  core  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Line  your 
pie-plate  with  pastry,  place  a  layer  of  apples  over  this,  and 
sprinkle  with  brown  sugar.  Then  another  layer  of  apple,  with 
the  sugar,  until  the  pie-plate  is  well  filled  and  heaped  in  the 
middle.  Over  the  top  dot  bits  of  butter;  shake  a  pinch  of  salt 
over  the  whole,  and  a  wee  dash  of  red  pepper.  It  will  give  a  rich, 
pungent  seasoning  which  other  spices  will  not.  Wet  the  edge 
of  the  lower  crust,  sprinkle  with  flour,  put  on  the  upper  crust,  and 
press  the  edges  firmly  together.     Bake  a  rich  brown. 

Burlington,  Wis.  Alice  Caskey. 


SUNDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  FOURTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Buttered  toast. 

Cream  codfish.        Baked  potatoes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Pigs  in  blankets. 

Hot  Scotch  rolls.  Apple  omelet. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup  (Miss  Collings'). 

Veal  cutlets  a  la  maintenon.    Celery. 

Potatoes.    Baked  Hubbard  squash. 

Quince  shortcake. 

Black  coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  519 

Buttered  Toast — As  some  one  expresses  it,  "There  is  toast 
and  toast,  and  much  of  it  is  neither  palatable  nor  digestible." 
The  object  in  toasting  bread  is  to  extract  the  moisture,  so  that 
the  bread  becomes  pure  farina  of  wheat.  But  when  bread  is  ex- 
posed to  a  hot  fire  so  that  the  outside  becomes  charred,  the  in- 
side retains  its  moisture,  becoming  soggy  and  indigestible;  and 
butter  applied  does  not  penetrate,  but  floats  on  the  surface  as 
rancid  oil.  Take  bread  at  least  a  day  old,  cut  thin  and  evenly, 
trimming  off  edges  for  the  crumb-jar.  First  warm  thoroughly 
each  side  of  slice,  then  present  first  side  nearer  fire  until  it  slow- 
ly takes  on  a  rich,  even  brown  color.  Treat  the  other  side  in  the 
same  way,  butter  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  if  liked,  and 
serve  hot. 

Baked  Potatoes — As  an  important  element  of  the  blood  is 
potash,  which  is  freely  soluble  in  water,  potatoes  baked  are 
much  more  wholesome  than  boiled.  They  should,  however,  be 
served  immediately  when  done,  else  they  become  watery;  and 
in  trying  them  never  use  a  fork,  as  that  allows  the  steam  to  es- 
cape, making  the  potato  heavy;  but  instead  mash  lightly  between 
the  fingers. 

Hot  Scotch  Rolls — One  cup  oat  flakes  scalded  with  one-half 
cup  boiling  milk;  add  to  these,  when  they  are  cold,  one-third  cup 
molasses,  one  level  tablespoon  butter,  and  beat  for  flve  minutes; 
thicken  with  white  flour,  as  for  ordinary  bread,  leaving  dough 
rather  soft.  Let  rise  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  mold  into 
small  rolls,  let  rise  until  quite  light,  glaze  with  white  of  egg  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven.  These  are  excellent  and  repay  the  trou- 
ble in  preparing  them. 

Apple  Omelet — Pare,  core  and  stev/  four  large  or  six  small 
tart  apples.  Rub  through  sieve,  beat  very  smooth  while  hot,  add- 
ing one  tablespoon  butter,  eight  tablespoons  sugar  and  one-half 
teaspoon  grated  nutmeg  (if  liked).  Whip  very  light  yolks  and 
whites,  separately,  of  four  eggs,  add  these  to  the  apples  when 
the  latter  are  perfectly  cold,  yolks  first;  then  stir  in  one  tea- 
spoon rose  water  or  vanilla;  lastly,  the  whites  of  eggs,  stirring 
in  latter  with  a  few  swift  strokes.  Pour  all  into  a  deep  pudding 
dish,  previously  buttered  and  heated.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
to  a  delicate  brown,  and  you  will  find  this  delicious. 

Pigs  in  Blankets — Slice  fine  breakfast  bacon  (smoked  pre- 
ferred) very  thin;  inclose  in  each  slice  one  or  two  large  oys- 
ters, peppered  and  salted  lightly;  roll  up  carefully  in  the  bacon 
and  fasten  with  a  toothpick.  Dip  each  roll  in  egg,  sprinkle  light- 
ly with  cornmeal  and  fry  a  delicate  brown  in  butter  or  lard. 
The  bacon  must  be  thin  as  a  knife-blade  and  must  be  fried  very 
quickly.  When  done  and  still  hot,  squeeze  two  or  three  drops 
of  lemon  juice  on  each  roll. 

Tomato  Soup — One  quart  of  stewed  tomatoes  or  one  quart 
can,  one  pint  of  stock,  and  one  small  onion,  one  bay  leaf,  one 
stalk  of  celery  and  a  sprig  of  parsley,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  but- 
ter^ four  level  teaspoonfuls  of  flour^  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 


520  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

one  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Put  the  tomatoes  in  a  saucepan  with 
the  onion,  bay  leaf,  parsley  and  celery;  let  it  stew  for  about  ten 
minutes.  Now  press  through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to  remove  the 
seeds.  Put  it  into  a  clean  saucepan  with  the  stock,  place  over  the 
fire  and  bring  to  a  boiling  point.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether until  smooth,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  soup.  Stir  con- 
stantly until  smooth,  then  add  the  salt  and  pepper,  sugar  and 
soda,  and  serve. 

Veal  Cutlets  a  la  Maintenon — Procure  two  pounds  of  cutlets, 
having  them  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick.  Trim  and  dip  each 
in  beaten  egg,  then  into  pounded  cracker,  which  has  been  sea- 
soned with  white  pepper,  salt  and  a  bit  of  sweet  marjoram.  Wrap 
each  cutlet  in  a  half  a  sheet  of  letter  paper,  well  buttered;  lay 
them  upon  a  buttered  gridiron  and  broil  over  a  clear,  not  too  hot, 
fire,  turning  often.  Secure  the  paper  by  fringing  the  ends  and 
twisting  fringes  after  the  cutlet  has  been  put  in.  Have  ready 
duplicate  papers  in  a  clean,  hot  dish,  and  if  the  envelopes  become 
soiled  and  darkened  in  the  broiling  transfer  to  the  clean,  warm 
ones,  emptying  every  drop  of  gravy  over  the  cutlet.  Veal  cooked 
in  covers  is  most  delicious,  as  in  this  way  the  flavor  and  juice  are 
retained  in  meat. 

Short  Cake — One  teacup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter,  two 
eggs,  one  cup  flour,  sifted  with  a  level  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
three  tablespoons  milk.  Have  all  cold  as  possible,  and  mix  very 
quickly  with  a  broad-bladed  knife,  having  previously  melted  and 
cooled  the  butter  and  beaten  the  eggs.  Bake  in  two  round  jelly- 
cake  tins. 

Quince  Filling — Choose  four  small  or  two  large  perfect  yel- 
low quinces,  pare  and  grate  on  a  coarse  grater  into  a  bowl.  Make 
a  thick  sirup  of  one  and  a  half  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  boiled 
with  a  little  water.  When  partly  cold,  stir  into  it  the  grated 
quince.  Stir  hard  for  a  moment,  then  spread  between  the  layers 
of  cake,  dusting  the  upper  layer  with  powdered  sugar.  Serve 
as  soon  as  possible  after  grating  the  quince,  cutting  as  you  would 
a  pie,  and  pouring  over  each  piece  whipped  cream  (well  sweet- 
ened), or  any  preferred  pudding  sauce. 

Mrs.  C.  M.  Barnarde. 

No.  601  South  Main  Street,  Goshen,  Ind. 


MONDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  FIFTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  apples. 

Minced  veal  on  toast.      Sweet  potato  pate. 

Muffins.       Coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  521 

LUNCHEON. 

Scalloped  potatoes.  Coffee  cake. 

Egg  salad.      Prune  pudding. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Noodle  soup. 

Lamb  stew.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Delicate  cabbage.  Pickles. 

Orange  shortcake.      Coffee. 


Sweet  Potato  Pate — One  pint  of  boiled  mashed  sweet  pota- 
toes, two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  enough  sweet  milk 
to  make  it  soft  enough  to  stir  well  together.  Drop  in  well-greased 
muffin  rings  and  fry  on  hot  griddle  until  brown  on  both  sides. 

Noodle  Soup — Rub  into  two  eggs  as  much  flour  as  they  will 
absorb,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  stalk  of  celery  cut  fine. 
Roll  out  with  rolling-pin  as  thin  as  a  wafer,  dust  over  a  little 
flour,  then  roll  up  tight.  Shave  slices  from  the  edge  of  the  roll 
and  shake  into  long  strips.  Let  dry,  then  put  them  into  the  soup 
lightly  and  boil  ten  minutes. 

Lamb  Stew — Cut  the  lamb  into  small  pieces  and  stew  gently 
until  partly  done.  Then  add  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork,  several 
onions  sliced  fine,  pepper  and  salt  and  two  or  three  raw  potatoes, 
cut  up  in  small  pieces.  Drop  in  a  few  dumplings  made  like  short 
])iscuit.    Thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour  moistened  with  milk. 

Orange  Shortcake — One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  teacupful  butter, 
one-half  pint  sweet  milk.  Take  half  of  this  and  roll  half-inch 
thick,  place  in  dripping  pan  and  spread  with  butter,  then  roll  the 
other  part  and  put  it  on  top  of  first.  Bake  in  hot  oven.  Peel,  seed 
and  slice  thin  eight  oranges  and  add  enough  sugar  to  make  very 
sweet.  Place  these  betv/een  the  cake  as  soon  as  it  is  taken  from 
the  oven.    Serve  at  once.  Mrs.  Mattie  Ralls. 

No.  132  Broadway,  Council  Bluffs,  Iowa. 


TUESDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  SIXTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 
Cornmeal  mush  (fried).    Dried  beef  (fried). 
Doughnuts.      Stewed  prunes. 
Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cheese  toast. 

Brown  bread  and  butter.      Apple  sauce. 

Stuffed  dates. 

Tea. 


522  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOlC. 

DINNER. 

Corn  caramel  soup. 

Meat  pie.  Cranberry  sauce. 

Grated  squash    (baked).  Macaroni. 

Nut  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Doughnuts — Half  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one 
and  a  half  pints  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  sifted  in 
the  flour,  one  egg,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  milk,  a  little  nutmeg. 
Mix  all  together,  making  a  soft  dough;  roll  out  half  an  inch 
thick,  cut  in  shapes  and  fry  a  light  brown  in  smoking-hot  lard. 
Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

Cheese  Toast — Spread  thin  slices  of  bread  toasted  a  light 
brown  with  butter.  Heap  grated  cheese  on  the  slices  of  toast, 
sprinkle  on  half  a  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  a  speck  of  cayenne.  Put  in  a  hot  oven  till  the  cheese 
begins  to  melt.    Serve  at  once. 

Stuffed  Dates — Remove  seeds.  Replace  with  blanched  almonds. 
Roll  in  coarse  sugar. 

Corn  Caramel  Soup — To  three  pints  of  stock  add  one-half  cup 
of  cornmeal  well  browned  in  the  oven,  and  half  a  cup  of  canned 
corn.  Bring  slowly  to  boiling  point  and  boil  five  minutes.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

Grated  Squash — Into  a  well-buttered  baking  dish  grate  Hub- 
bard squash.  Dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
bake.    Serve  hot. 

Nut  Pudding — Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  water,  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Stir 
well  together.  Add  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  mixed  with  a 
little  flour.  Then  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  chopped  walnut  meats  mixed 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  the  following  sauce:  One  cup  of  sugar,  one  heaping 
teaspoon  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  butter,  a  little  nutmeg.  Add  a 
cup  of  cold  water.  Stir  together  and  put  on  the  fire.  Stir  occa- 
sionally until  smooth.    When  done  add  a  teaspoon  of  vinegar. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Greene. 

No.  814  Main  Street,  Davenport,  Iowa. 


WEDNESDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  SEVENTEENTH. 


(Some  Chinese  dishes.) 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

California  breakfast  food. 

Mushroom  omelet.  Hot  biscuit. 

Coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  523 

LUNCHEON. 

Meat  dumplings.  Saratoga  potatoes. 

Thinly  sliced  bread  and  butter. 

Mixed  pickles.  Rice  eggs. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Cantonese  chicken  and  macaroni. 

Browned  mashed  potatoes. 

Oyster-plant  fritters. 

Orange  pudding,  with  hard   sauce. 

Coffee. 


Many  dishes  as  prepared  by  the  Chinese  are  admirable  in 
every  respect.  They  please  the  eye  as  well  as  the  palate,  are 
easily  digested  and  very  nutritious. 

Mushroom  Omelet — Take  a  dozen  large,  fresh  mushrooms,  wash 
thoroughly,  peel  carefully,  and  cut  off  the  stems  so  as  to  leave  the 
plates  in  one  flat  piece.  Mince  the  stems  very  fine  and  add  them  to 
three  eggs,  well  beaten.  Season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one- 
half  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper,  mix  all  well, 
pour  over  the  mushroom  plates  and  then  transfer  each  to  the  fry- 
ing-pan, in  which  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  has  been  melted.  Each 
mushroom  should  be  just  encircled  with  the  egg  and  minced  stems. 
Fry  to  a  rich  brown.  Those  v/ho  like  the  mushrooms  well  done 
should  cover  the  frying  pan  and  not  turn  the  omelets;  cooked  in 
this  way,  the  eggs  and  mince  preserve  their  color  and  make  a  pret- 
ty contrast  with  the  creamy  hue  of  the  mushroom.  Each  omelet 
should  be  about  one  inch  and  a  half  to  two  inches  in  diameter,  two 
morsels.  If  the  mushrooms  are  too  large  for  this  they  should 
be  cut  in  half  before  cooking. 

Meat  Dumplings — Either  raw  or  cooked  meat,  or  fish  of  any 
kind  may  be  used.  The  meat  should  have  all  bone,  gristle  and 
outside  skin  removed,  and  be  minced.  To  a  cup  of  this  minced 
meat  add  a  cup  of  minced  celery  and  one  onion  also  minced;  season 
with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  a 
dash  of  red  pepper,  and  a  few  drops  of  Worcester  sauce.  Make  a 
dough  of  baking  powder  as  if  for  biscuit,  roll  about  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick,  a  piece  of  dough  large  enough  to  hold  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  the  mixture,  around  which  it  should  be  wrapped.  Steam 
about  an  hour. 

Mixed  Pickles — Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  ten  onions, 
ten  green  peppers;  chop  all  together;  add  one  cup  of  salt;  let  stand 
all  night;  drain  dry;  put  in  a  porcelain  lined  kettle  with  one  pound 
of  brown  sugar,  one-half  teacup  grated  horseradish,  one  table- 
spoonful  each  ground  black  pepper,  mustard,  whole  white  mus- 
tard seed,  and  celery  seed.  Cover  with  vinegar  and  boil  gently  one 
hour. 


524  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

Rice  Eggs — Sweeten  one  cup  of  cold  boiled  salted  rice  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  moistening  with  water  until  it  be- 
comes coherent,  then  mold  a  tablespoonful  around  a  preserved 
pear,  or  other  sweetmeat,  into  the  form  of  an  egg,  dip  this  in  a 
beaten  egg,  and  fry  over  a  hot  fire.  A  Chinese  cook  will  use  a  dif- 
ferent sweetmeat,  or  a  different  couple  of  sweetmeats,  in  each 

egg. 

Cantonese  Chicken  and  Macaroni — Cook  half  a  pound  of  ver- 
micelli and  thoroughly  drain.  Pour  over  it  half  a  cupful  of  high- 
ly seasoned  tomato  sauce.  Shred  the  white  and  dark  meat  of  a 
small,  cooked  chicken  into  fibers  no  larger  than  a  match.  Shred 
four  sticks  of  celery  and  mince  one  Bermuda  onion;  season  with 
salt,  white  and  red  pepper,  a  dash  of  ginger,  cloves  and  cinnamon, 
and  put  all  in  a  well-greased  pan.  Saute  over  a  hot  fire;  during 
the  final  heating  the  various  ingredients  should  be  thoroughly 
mingled;  when  they  are,  let  the  pan  remain  quiet  a  minute  or  so, 
until  the  vermicelli  touching  the  metal  is  moderately  brown. 
Serve  plain  or  with  half  a  cupful  of  soup  stock  heated  thrown 
over  it. 

Oyster-Plant  Fritters — Scrape  one  dozen  roots  of  the  oyster 
plant  or  salsify  and  so  fast  as  you  do  so  throw  the  pieces  into 
cold  water  to  prevent  discoloration.  When  all  are  done,  cut  into 
slices  and  boil  thirty  minutes.  Drain  and  mash  through  a  colan- 
der; add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half  as  much  pepper,  and  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Mix,  form  the 
mixture  into  oyster-shaped  cakes;  fry  in  very  hot  lard,  on  both 
sides. 

Orange  Pudding — Soak  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroons  in 
a  scant  pint  of  milk;  beat  four  eggs  with  a  small  half  a  cupful  of 
sugar.  Mix  and  beat  all  until  smooth;  then  add  the  juice  of  two 
oranges  and  the  grated  rind  of  one.  Pour  in  a  buttered  pudding, 
mold  and  boil  one  hour.    Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Hard  Sauce — Beat  to  a  cream  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  and  grad- 
ually beat  into  it  one  cupful  of  sugar.  Season  with  any  flavoring 
preferred.  When  it  is  smooth  and  creamy,  pile  it  roughly  on  a 
pretty  dish,  place  it  where  it  will  get  very  cold,  and  before  serving 
grate  some  nutmeg  over  it.  Mrs.  James  MacChesney. 

No.  207  Capitol  Street,  Charleston,  W.  Va. 


THURSDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  EIGHTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Eli  Pettijohn's  breakfast  food  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Fried  eggs  with  bacon. 

Corn  muffins. 

Coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  525 


LUNCHEON. 

Thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham,  mustard  catchup. 

Potato  salad. 

Hot  baking-powder  biscuits,  maple  sirup. 

Cookies.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup;     toast  squares. 

Fried  rabbit,  garnished  with  slices  of  lemon,  onion  sauce. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Apple  pie,  with  squares  of  cheese. 

Coffee. 


Fried  Eggs  with  Bacon — Cut  two  thin  slices  of  bacon  for 
each  egg  to  be  fried.  Fry  the  bacon  over  a  gentle  fire,  being 
careful  not  to  burn;  when  crisp,  place  on  heated  platter.  If  the 
bacon  is  very  fat,  remove  a  portion  of  the  grease  into  a  dish; 
to  the  remainder  add  the  eggs,  one  by  one.  First  break  up  sep- 
arately in  a  saucer  that  you  may  know  their  condition.  Care 
must  be  taken  not  to  break  the  yolk.  Never  turn  an  egg  in 
frying. 

Mustard  Sauce — Three  tablespoons  best  ground  mustard,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one  rounded  teaspoon  white  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
of  white  pepper,  two  or  a  little  less  of  melted  butter  (salad  oil 
if  preferred).    Add  vinegar  enough  to  mix  to  a  smooth  paste. 

Fried  Rabbit — To  dress  a  rabbit,  drive  a  nail  through  the 
head  and  secure  to  some  solid  wall,  say  that  of  a  shed.  Then 
cut  the  skin  all  the  way  around  the  neck,  make  an  incision  two 
inches  long  and  downward  from  the  throat  and  gently  pull  and 
work  the  skin  downward.  This  way  is  quite  easy  and  removes 
the  coat  with  all  cleanliness.  Next  wash  in  several  waters  and 
cut  in  eight  pieces.  Parboil  twenty  minutes  or  longer,  if  the 
game  is  tough;  place  on  dish  to  drain,  have  a  frying  pan  ready 
with  drippings  (from  breakfast),  or  lard;  when  these  are  hot 
put  in  the  pieces  of  rabbit,  which  you  have  first  rolled  in  beaten 
egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  which  have  been  seasoned  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  (This  is  inexpen- 
sive, as  the  cost  of  a  rabbit  is  about  fifteen  cents.) 

Onion  Sauce — Five  white  onions,  one  coffee  cup  hot  milk, 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  pepper.  Peel  the  onions,  boil  tender, 
drain  and  mash  fine.  Stir  the  onions  in  the  hot  milk,  then  the 
melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Allow  to  boil  up  once.  Serve 
very  hot.  Mrs.  Alida  W.  Sprague. 

No.  3225  Pleasant  Avenue,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 


526  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

FRIDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  NINETEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 
Beef  croquettes.        Rice  muffins. 
Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cheese  sandwiches.        Saratoga  chips. 

Wafers.        Banana  float. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Onion  soup. 

Halibut  steak,  baked.        Baked  potatoes. 

Cauliflower  with  dressing.    Celery. 

Ambrosia     of     oranges. 

After  dinner  coffee. 


Cheese  Sandwiches— After  cutting  the  crust  from  the  bread 
cut  in  very  thin  slices  and  butter  lightly.  Brown  bread  is  ex- 
cellent. Cut  in  long  strips,  using  a  very  sharp  knife.  Put  two 
pieces  together  with  the  following  filling:  Cream  cheese  or  cot- 
tage cheese,  in  which  has  been  chopped  olives.  These  are  de- 
licious. 

Banana  Float— Place  in  a  double  boiler  one  pint  of  milk,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  cornstarch;  stir  over  the  fire  until  thick;  then  add  a 
little  vanilla  flavoring.  When  custard  is  cold  beat  the  two  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Cut  three 
bananas  into  slices  and  place  in  a  dish,  pour  over  the  custard  and 
put  whites  of  eggs  on  top  in  shape  of  snov/balls. 

Halibut  Steak,  Baked — Secure  two  shapely  steaks,  wash  and 
thoroughly  dry  them  with  a  towel.  Make  a  stuffing  from  a  cup- 
ful of  crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  onion 
juice,  one  of  chopped  parsley,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper,  just  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Place  one  steak  in  the  baking  pan,  lay  care- 
fully over  it  the  stuffing,  and  place  above  it  the  other  steak.  Put 
small  pieces  of  butter  over  the  top  and  dust  slightly  with  salt  and 
pepper.    Bake  until  a  golden  brown,  about  thirty  minutes. 

Caulifiov/er  with  Dressing — Boil  one  nice  cauliflower  for  one 
hour  in  a  graniteware  or  porcelain-lined  kettle.  Put  on  in  cold 
salted  water,  with  the  stem  up.  When  done  drain  and  place  on 
a  hot  platter.    Pour  over  it  the  following  dressing:  Rub  together 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK    BOOK.  527 

a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  flour  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  grad- 
ually a  cup  and  a  half  of  cold  water.  Stir  over  the  fire  until 
quite  smooth  and  thick,  seasoning  with  one-fourth  saltspoon  pep- 
per and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  and  just  before  serving  add  the 
well-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of  water 
to  prevent  curdling.     Serve  hot.  Bstella  Spiller. 

Rockton,  111. 


SATURDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  TWENTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 

Hominy  grits,  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Eggs  and  mushrooms  on  toast. 

Raised  doughnuts.    Coffee. 


LUNCHEaN, 

Pish  fritters.  Cucumber  sauce. 

Buttered  hot  crackers.        Cocoa. 

Friars  omelet. 


DINNER. 

Rice  soup. 

Beefsteak  and  oyster  pie. 

Baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Beet  root  and  Spanish  onion  salad. 

Nottingham  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Eggs  and  Mushrooms — Procure  a  pound  of  mushrooms  and 
wash  them  well  in  cold  water;  do  not  let  them  soak;  peel  and 
put  them  into  a  stewing-pan,  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  white  pepper;  set  them  over 
the  fire  until  thoroughly  heated;  turn  into  a  shallow  baking-dish 
and  break  over  them  six  eggs;  sprinkle  over  the  top  stale  bread- 
crumbs; dot  with  bits  of  butter;  dust  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
bake  five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.    Eat  with  buttered  toast. 

Raised  Doughnuts — One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  a 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  two  eggs,  all  worked  into  a  quart 
bowlful  of  bread  dough;  make  as  stiff  as  for  biscuit;  let  it  rise 
an  hour  or  more.  When  sufficiently  raised  roll  rather  thin  and 
cut  into  square  rings  or  balls;  let  stand  one-half  hour  and  fry 
in  hot  lard  six  or  eight  minutes. 

Cucumber  Sauce — Peel  and  grate  sufficient  cucumbers  to 
make  four  tablespoonfuls.    To  this  quantity  add  an  equal  quan- 


528  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

tity  of  olive  oil  and  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Stir  well  un- 
til wanted  for  use. 

Hot  Buttered  Crackers — Lightly  butter  a  sufficient  number  of 
milk  crackers,  and  place  in  dripping  pan,  being  careful  they  do 
not  overlap  each  other;  place  in  hot  oven,  and  watch  them  care- 
fully until  they  are  crisped  and  a  light-brown. 

Rice  Soup — In  a  double  boiler  simmer  an  hour  a  teacupful 
of  rice  in  a  pint  of  milk  and  the  same  of  water,  to  which  has  been 
added  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  onion,  one  of  parsley,  half  a 
saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Just  before 
serving  press  through  a  fine  sieve  and  add  a  pint  of  boiling  stock 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.    Serve  with  croutons. 

Beefsteak  and  Oyster  Pie — Procure  a  pint  of  oysters  and  two 
pounds  of  round  steak,  cut  an  inch  thick.  Cut  it  into  strips  two 
and  one-half  inches  wide.  Mix  on  a  plate  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  mixed  herbs,  the  same  of  salt 
and  half  the  amount  of  pepper.  Dip  each  piece  of  meat  in  this; 
place  an  oyster  on  one  end  and  roll  up  loosely;  place  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  pie  dish  and  pile  up  well  toward  the  center.  Pack  the 
rolls  loosely,  so  the  gravy  may  flow  through  and  help  cook  them. 
Add  the  oyster  liquor  and  enough  stock  to  nearly  cover  the  meat; 
dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Cover  with  a  flaky  crust  and  bake  an 
hour  and  a  half  in  a  slow  oven.  For  the  crust,  add  a  quarter  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  to  a  cupful  of  flour;  cut  into  it  a  half  cupful  of 
cold  lard;  when  dry  and  powdery  like  meal  mix  through  with  the 
knife  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ice-water,  turn  out  on  flour-board 
and  sprinkle  thick  with  flour  and  lightly  roll  from  you  until  the 
requisite  size  to  fit  the  top  of  pie. 

Beet  Root  and  Onion  Salad — Take  one  large  Spanish  onion 
and  one  beet  root  and  cook  both  in  their  skins  separately  until 
tender.  Let  cool  and  peel;  cut  in  thin  slices  and  pile  high  in  a 
dish,  pouring  over  them  a  dressing  made  as  follows:  Mix  thor- 
oughly two  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  one  of  white  wine  vinegar, 
a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  saltspoonful  cayenne  and  a 
level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Nottingham  Pudding — Sift  together  thoroughly  two  cups  of 
sifted  flour,  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  salt- 
spoonful of  salt,  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  one-half  cup 
of  cream  and  four  eggs  not  beaten,  and  beat  until  very  light  and 
smooth.  Pare  and  core  six  apples,  put  them  in  a  baking  dish 
and  if  quite  tart  sprinkle  over  one  cup  of  sugar.  Pour  the  batter 
over  them  and  bake  one  hour.  Serve  with  cream  sauce,  made  as 
follows:  Cream  together  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  butter  and  one- 
half  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and 
the  same  of  fruit  sauce.  Thoroughly  beat  and  heat  over  hot 
water,  but  only  just  enough  to  remove  the  curdled  look. 

Frances  E.   Peck. 

No.  117  West  Fourteenth  Street,  Davenport,  Iowa. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  529 

SUNDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  TWENTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grape  fruit. 

Oatmeal  mush,  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Broiled  mackerel. 

Baked  potatoes.  Hominy  muffins. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Brown  hash.  Creamed  eggs  on  toast. 

Thin  bread  and  butter. 
Soft  gingerbread.  Boiled  chestnuts. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Quick  beef  soup. 

Breaded  mutton  chops,  baked. 

Stuffed  potatoes.  Cream   squash. 

Cheese  canopees,  with  celery. 

Trifle.  Salted  peanuts. 

Coffee. 


Hominy  Muffins — Hash  one  cup  of  boiled  hominy  fine  with  a 
fork,  add  one  cup  of  cornmeal,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  melted  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  baking  powder.  Beat  thoroughly  and  hard.  Put  into  gem 
pans  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

Quick  Beef  Soup — Chop  very  fine  two  pounds  lean  beef,  one 
carrot,  one  onion  and  one  turnip.  Put  vegetables,  with  one 
clove,  into  two  quarts  of  water  and  boil  down  to  three  pints, 
strain  and  press  over  the  chopped  beef.  Season  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  tomato  catchup,  salt  and  pepper;  boil  slowly  half  an  hour; 
color  a  rich  brown  with  caramel.    Serve  with  meat  in  it. 

Caramel  for  Coloring — Put  into  a  saucepan  a  cup  of  sugar  and 
a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  water.  Let  them  boil  until  the  sirup  begins 
to  change  color;  watch  carefully.  Tilt  the  saucepan  on  all  sides 
that  it  may  brown  equally.  When  it  is  all  nearly  black,  before  it 
chars  in  the  least,  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  until 
all  is  dissolved  and  like  very  dark  sirup.  Bottle  for  use.  A  tea- 
spoonful  or  less  of  this  gives  a  fine  color  to  soup  or  gravy.  It 
will  also  color  icing  for  cake,  and  is  always  useful. 

Breaded  Mutton  Chops — Trim  off  fat  and  skin.  Dip  in  egg, 
then  in  rolled  cracker  mixed  with  salt,  pepper  and  powdered  pars- 
ley. Lay  in  dripping  pan  with  small  piece  of  butter  on  each.  Bake 
half  an  hour,  basting  with  a  little  water  and  butter,  and  if  liked 


530  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

add  a  chopped  onion.  Strain  the  gravy,  thicken  with  browned 
flour,  add  tablespoonful  tomato  catchup,  and  a  little  lemon. 

Brown  Flour  for  Thickening  Gravy  Quickly — Sift  a  quart  of 
flour  into  a  dripping  pan,  set  in  a  hot  oven.  Stir  well,  do  not  burn. 
When  it  is  rather  a  dark  brown,  put  in  a  glass  jar.  One-third  more 
of  this  is  needed  than  of  raw  flour. 

Cream  Squash — Boil  and  mash  in  the  usual  way.  Press  out 
all  the  water.  Beat  in  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  two  of 
cream,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  lastly  a  beaten  egg.  Put  into  tin 
pail,  set  in  boiling  water  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  often.  Keep 
the  water  boiling.    It  should  look  like  rich  custard. 

Cheese  Canopees — Cut  with  biscuit  cutter  from  slices  of  bak- 
er's bread  half  an  inch  thick  as  many  circles  as  needed.  Put  into 
hot  frying  pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  butter;  fry  both  sides  a 
delicate  brown.  Heap  upon  them  grated  cheese  mixed  with  a 
little  salt  and  pepper  and  put  on  top  shelf  of  oven.  They  will 
brown  and  be  ready  to  serve  while  eating  the  meat  course;  eat 
with  celery. 

Trifle — Half  a  dozen  little  sponge  cakes,  one  dozen  macaroons. 
Make  a  thick  custard  with  yolks  of  three  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  cornstarch  and  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  milk,  sugar  to  taste.  Boil 
the  milk,  mix  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  of  it  (milk)  cold,  stir 
into  the  hot  milk;  when  a  little  cool,  add  the  beaten  yolks  and 
sugar,  flavor  to  taste  and  set  to  cool.  Lay  the  sponge  cakes  in 
a  glass  dish,  moisten  with  a  wine  glass  of  cream  flavored  with 
vanilla,  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Spread  a  layer  of  raspberry  jam 
over  this,  then  the  macaroons  and  pour  the  cold  custard  over. 
Heap  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well-beaten  and  a  little  sweetened 
over  all.    Place  near  ice  to  cool.  Mrs.  P.  B.  Gehr. 

Box  242,  Riverside,  111. 


MONDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  TWENTY-SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 

Fricasseed  tripe.  Fried  sweet  potatoes. 

Corn  bread.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Curried  eggs.  Buttered  toast. 

Baked  apples,  with  lemon. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Smothered  chicken.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Celery. 

Coffee  jelly.  Marguerites. 

Coffee. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK   BOOK.  531 

Fricasseed  Tripe — Cut  a  pound  of  tripe  in  narrow  strips,  add 
to  it  a  small  cup  of  water  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Dredge  in  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour.    Serve  hot. 

Baked  Apples,  with  Lemon — Peel  and  core  the  apples,  put 
them  in  a  pudding  dish  and  slice  over  them  two  lemons,  without 
removing  the  rind;  sugar  well,  add  a  little  water  and  bake. 

Marguerites — One  pound  of  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped, 
whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  stiff;  take  one-third  of  the  beaten 
egg  and  add  powdered  sugar  to  make  a  thick  icing;  spread  this 
over  salted  wafer  crackers,  mix  the  chopped  nuts  with  the  re- 
mainder of  the  beaten  egg,  spread  this  mixture  on  top  of  the  icing, 
place  the  crackers,  thus  prepared,  in  a  pan,  put  in  a  cool  oven 
and  brown  slightly.  Mrs.  G.  L.  Porter. 

Box  674,  Bloomington,  111. 


TUESDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  TWENTY-THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  oranges. 

Hominy  flakes  and  cream. 

Lyonnaise  tripe.        Thin  corn  cake. 

German  coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Chicken   in  jelly. 

Boston  brown  bread  and  butter. 

Dutch  apple  cake.      Tea. 


DINNER. 

Mock  bisque  soup. 

Oyster  pie. 

Scalloped  sweet  potatoes.      Turkish  pilaf. 

Sweet  pickled  peaches. 

Cabinet  pudding,  epicures'  sauce. 

Coffee. 


Hominy  Flakes — Pour  smartly  boiling  water  upon  a  heaping 
cupful  of  the  flakes,  stir  thoroughly,  add  three-quarters  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  cover  the  double  boiler  and  boil  for  at  least  thir- 
ty minutes.  Allow  plenty  of  water,  for  the  flakes  increase  their 
bulk  greatly  in  cooking. 

Lyonnaise  Tripe — One  pound  of  cooked  tripe  cut  in  dice,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  of  chopped  onion,  one  of  vinegar; 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Put  onion  and  butter  in  frying  pan  and 


532  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

when  onion  turns  yellow  add  the  tripe  and  cook  five  minutes;  add 
seasoning,  boil  up  once  and  serve  on  slices  of  toasted  bread. 

Thin  Corn  Cake — One  cupful  of  cornmeal,  one  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  pour  the  boiling  water  on 
the  meal,  sugar  and  salt,  and  beat  rapidly.  Ad4  the  butter,  mix 
well  and  spread  very  thin  on  buttered  tin  sheets.  Bake  slowly 
about  twenty  minutes. 

German  Coffee — Make  very  strong  coffee  in  usual  manner;  put 
each  cup  half  full  of  scalded  rich  milk,  fill ,  up  with  the  strong 
coffee  and  serve. 

Chicken  in  Jelly — Cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  chicken  left 
from  dinner  of  day  before.  To  a  cupful  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
a  half  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  saltspoonful  of  celery  salt. 
Cover  the  bones  with  water,  after  breaking  them,  and  boil  down 
to  a  cupful.  Put  one-fifth  of  a  box  of  gelatine  to  soak  in  a  quarter 
cup  of  cold  water.  Put  the  chicken  into  the  stock  which  has 
been  strained  and  seasoned  with  a  dash  of  paprika  and  a  salt- 
spoonful of  salt;  also  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  if  liked.  Add 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder;  or,  if  not  liked,  four  mush- 
rooms cut  into  dice;  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  take  off  fire,  stir  In 
gelatine,  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Turn  into  a  mold  and  set  in  cool 
place  to  harden.  Can  be  varied  by  adding  cold  boiled  eggs  sliced. 
or  bits  of  boiled  ham.  To  serve:  Dip  mold  in  warm  water,  and 
turn  out  on  dish.  Garnish  with  parsley.  Chicken  in  jelly  needs 
very  high  seasoning  to  make  it  palatable. 

Dutch  Apple  Cake — Mix  one  pint  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  baking  powder;  rub  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  pour  on  this  one  egg  and  a  large 
two-thirds  cupful  of  milk  beaten  together  thoroughly.  Mix  all 
quickly  and  well.  Spread  the  dough  about  half  an  inch  thick 
on  a  buttered  baking  pan.  Place  in  rows  upon  this  dough  four 
large  apples  which  have  been  pared,  cored  and  cut  into  eighths, 
sprinkle  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  slight  sifting  of 
cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  twenty-five  min- 
utes.   Serve  with  sugar  and  cream  or  a  simple  sauce. 

Oyster  Pie — Drain  the  liquor  from  a  quart  of  fine  oysters,  strain 
and  put  on  to  boil  with  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  walnut,  pepper,  a 
thickening  of  stale  bread  crumbs  and  a  half  cupful  of  milk  well 
beaten  together,  also  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  half  saltspoonful 
of  pepper.  Boil  a  few  minutes,  then  throw  in  oysters  and  cook  five 
minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  when  merely  warm  beat  in  yolks 
of  three  eggs.  Line  a  buttered  dish  with  rich  paste  and  fill  with 
crumpled  white  paper  or  old  napkin  to  support  the  lid  of  paste, 
and  bake  until  lightly  browned,  when  remove  paper  or  napkin 
and  fill  with  the  oyster  mixture,  set  back  in  oven  for  a  few  min- 
utes and  send  hot  to  table. 

Scalloped  Sweet  Potatoes — Arrange  the  potatoes,  which  have 
previously  been  boiled,  peeled  and  sliced,  in  a  baking  dish;  strew 
each  layer  with  bits  of  butter  and  fine  bread  crumbs.  Bake,  cov- 
ered, for  twenty  minutes  in  slow  oven;    uncover  and  brown. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  533 

Turkish  Pilaf — One  cupful  stewed  and  strained  tomato,  one 
cupful  of  stock,  highly  seasoned  v/ith  salt,  pepper  and  minced 
onion.  Boil  and  add  one  cupful  of  washed  rice,  stir  lightly  with 
a  fork  until  absorbed,  then  add  small  half-cupful  of  butter.  Have 
this  all  in  double  boiler,  steam  twenty  minutes.  Remove  cover 
and  put  over  it  a  folded  towel  to  allow  steam  to  escape.  Serve 
as  vegetable. 

Cabinet  Pudding — Seed  one  cupful  of  raisins  by  boiling  until 
plump;  place  in  cold  water;  they  can  then  be  seeded  with  ease. 
Put  one  pint  of  milk  in  double  boiler  to  heat.  Rub  a  melon  mold 
well  with  butter  and  line  with  raisins;  put  in  a  layer  of  lady- 
fingers  or  stale  sponge  cake,  then  a  layer  of  raisins,  and  so  on. 
Separate  three  eggs  and  beat  the  yolks  very  light,  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar  and  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Turn  hot 
milk  slowly  into  eggs  and  pour  over  lady-fingers  in  mold.  Cover 
and  steam  one  hour. 

Epicures'  Sauce — Rub  one-half  cupful  butter  and  same  of 
light  brown  sugar  to  a  cream;  put  on  fire  to  heat.  Beat  very 
light  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  pour  hot  mixture  over  egg  and  put 
on  fire  again  for  a  few  minutes.  Cool  slightly,  add  little  grated 
nutmeg,  and  serve.  Mrs.  Fannie  L.  Thomas. 

Perry,  Iowa. 


WEDNESDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  TWENTY-FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Farina  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Ham  in  jelly.        Broiled  potatoes. 

Corn-fruit  mufiins.        Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Veal  and  mushrooms  on  toast. 

Cranberry  jelly. 

Ribbon  cake.        Tea. 


DINNER. 

Black  bean  soup. 

Broiled  mutton  steaks.    Mustard  sauce. 

Rice  curry.    Baked  potatoes. 

Quince  pudding.     Coffee. 


Ham  with  Currant  Jelly— Put  half  a  glass  of  currant  jelly, 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  dash  of  pepper  into  saucepan.  Take 
eight  thin  slices  of  boiled  ham,  and  when  the  jelly  is  hot  put 
in  the  ham,  and  leave  only  long  enough  to  get  heated  through. 
Serve  immediately  on  a  hot  dish. 

Broiled  Potatoes— Cut  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick  six  cold 


534  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

boiled  potatoes.  Lightly  butter  and  lay  on  broiler  over  a  very 
clear  fire.  Brown  both  sides,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
send  to  the  table  piping  hot  in  a  napkin. 

Veal  and  Mushrooms — Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a 
saucepan  and  when  melted  add  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  and 
stir  until  well  mixed.  Pour  slowly  into  it  one-half  pint  of  milk. 
Stir  and  cook  until  smooth,  seasoning  with  one  saltspoonful  of  salt 
and  half  that  amount  of  pepper.  Now  put  into  the  sauce  two 
cups  of  cold  cooked,  seasoned  veal,  cut  into  neat  cubes,  and  one 
cup  of  mushrooms  quartered.  Heat  over  hot  water  five  minutes, 
remove  from  fire,  add  quickly  one  well-beaten  egg  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Serve  on  toast  and  garnish  with  toast- 
points. 

Toast — Cut  less  than  half  an  inch  thick  as  many  slices  of  stale 
bread  as  are  wanted.  Dry  slightly  in  the  oven,  toast  on  fork  be- 
fore a  clear  fire,  a  light-golden  brown;  dip  in  melted  butter, 
place  on  platter  and  pour  veal  rechauffe  over. 

Cranberry  Jelly — Place  in  granite  saucepan  one  quart  of 
cleaned  cranberries  and  one  cup  of  water.  Cook  .until  soft,  and 
turn  into  cheesecloth  strainer  and  let  drip  over  night.  In  the 
morning  measure  the  juice  and  allow  an  equal  measure  of  sugar. 
Boil  juice  fifteen  minutes,  add  the  sugar,  skim,  and  when  it  thick- 
ens on  the  spoon,  turn  at  once  into  a  pretty  mold. 

Ribbon  Cake — Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  of 
sugar.  Stir  in  tv/o-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk.  Then  add  two  cups 
of  sifted  flour  and  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  alternately. 
Beat  in  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  bake  in  two  tins. 
For  the  dark,  take  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one-fourth  cup  of 
butter,  one-fourth  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  of  molasses, 
one-half  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  the 
same  of  cinnamon,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins  and  one  full  cup 
of  flour,  sifted,  with  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Bake  in 
one  layer  and  put  the  layers  together  with  jelly,  the  dark  be- 
tween the  light. 

Black  Bean  Soup — Soak  one  pint  of  beans  over  night.  In 
the  morning  drain  and  put  on  to  simmer  in  two  quarts  of  cold 
water,  with  half  a  pound  of  chopped  raw  beef  and  one  small 
onion.  Simmer  five  hours.  Add  cold  water  as  it  boils  away  to 
check  the  boiling  and  soften  the  beans,  having  two  quarts  when 
done.  Rub  through  strainer  and  season  with  two  level  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  salt,  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  the  same  of  mustard. 
Thicken  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  two  of  butter  blended 
over  hot  water.  Cut  two  hard-boiled  eggs  and  one  lemon  into 
slices;  put  into  tureen  and  pour  soup  over. 

Broiled  Mutton  Steaks — Have  two  pounds  of  steaks  cut  half 
an  inch  thick.  Rub  your  gridiron  with  butter,  and  when  hot  lay 
your  steaks  on,  turning  as  quickly  as  possible.  Have  a  clear  fire 
and  cook  five  minutes,  if  desired  well  done.  Put  on  a  hot  plat- 
ter and  spread  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  place  on  each 
a  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly. 

Rice  Curry— Soak  one  cup  of  cleaned  rice  two  hours.    Then 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  535 

put  in  kettle,  cover  with  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  boil  thirty  minutes,  and  drain  in  colander. 
Fry  a  minced  onion  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  until  it  turns  red; 
add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  curry  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  stock  or 
gravy;  boil  up  and  pour  over  the  rice. 

Mustard  Sauce — Blend  over  hot  water  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  mixed  mustard,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  three 
of  cream.     Send  to  the  table  in  gravy  tureen. 

Quince  Pudding — Pare,  core  and  quarter  five  medium-sized 
quinces  and  simmer  in  as  much  water  as  will  cover  them.  When 
soft,  rub  through  a  sieve  and  sweeten  with  a  cup  of  sugar.  Add 
the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  to  a  pint  of  milk,  and  stir  into  the 
quince  pulp.  Line  the  sides  of  a  pudding  dish  with  a  good  pie 
crust,  turn  in  the  quince  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Cover  with  a  meringue  made  from  the  beaten  whites  and  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  eat  cold.  Frances  E.  Peck. 

No.  117  West  14th  Street,  Davenport,  Iowa. 


MENU  FOR  THANKSGIVING. 


BREAKFAST. 
Stewed  prunes.  Boiled  rice  with  cream. 

Codfish  a  la  mode. 
Sweet  potatoes  browned. 
White  and  brown  bread. 

Pancakes.  Coffee. 


DINNER. 

Bisque  of  oysters. 

Planked  whitefish,  lemon  and  walnut  sauce. 

Roast  turkey  with  chestnut  filling. 
Cranberries.  Olives.  Celery. 

Chestnut  croquettes. 
Mashed  white  potatoes.      Baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Mashed  turnips. 

Sweetbread  salad. 

Mince  pie.  Pumpkin  pie.  Ice  cream. 

Nuts.  Black  coffee.  Raisins. 


536  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK   BOOK. 


LATE  LUNCHEON. 

Welsh  rarebit.  Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Chocolate  cake.  Buttercup  jelly. 

Cocoa. 


Bisque  of  Oysters— One  quart  of  fair-sized  fresh  oysters,  one 
quart  of  rich  milk  or  cream,  eight  soda  crackers,  rolled,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  beef  extract,  a  saucerful  of  finely-minced  celery,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  worked  into  an  equal  quantity  of  floUr, 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  teaspoonful  salt  and  one-half  teaspoonful 
pepper,  with  a  sprinkle  of  cayenne.  Chop  the  oysters,  put  into 
stewpan  with  their  own  liquor  and  a  pint  of  water,  the  celery, 
beef  extract,  crackers,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  parsley.  Boil 
slowly  for  twenty  minutes.  Rub  through  a  sieve  until  all  mois- 
ture has  been  pressed  through.  Return  to  stove,  add  milk  and 
simmer  again  for  ten  minutes.  Set  back  and  very  carefully  stir 
in  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs;   serve  at  once. 

Planked  Whitefish — Scale  a  five-pound  whitefish,  or  two 
smaller  ones;  cut  open  the  entire  length  down  the  middle,  with 
a  small  knife  loosen  the  backbone  at  the  neck  until  you  can  take 
hold  of  it.  Gently  draw  it  out;  it  will  come  entire  with  all  other 
bones.  Rinse  fish  and  lay  back  downward  on  a  piece  of  hard- 
wood plank.  (A  dripping-pan  will  answer,  but  has  not  quite  the 
same  flavor.)  Dot  with  small  pieces  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Sprinkle  over  it  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon.  Bake  in  rather  a 
quick  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  It  must  be  a  rich  orown.  If  a 
dripping-pan  is  used  add  half  cup  of  water. 

"Walnut  Pish  Sauce — Work  into  a  cup  of  nice  butter  as  much 
lemon  juice  as  it  will  take.  When  creamy  add  half  a  teacupful 
of  chopped  pickled  walnuts  or  pickled  cucumbers  with  a  little 
minced  parsley. 

Roast  Turkey  with  Chestnut  Filling — Get  a  plump,  young 
twelve-pound  turkey.  Singe  it  over  a  burning  newspaper  on  a 
hot  stove.  Draw,  being  careful  not  to  break  any  of  the  internal 
organs.  Rinse  out  with  several  waters,  using  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing soda  in  next  to  the  last.  Wipe  dry  inside  and  out.  Rub  the 
inside  with  a  little  salt  and  fill. 

Pilling — Roast  about  thirty  chestnuts;  peel,  removing  the 
inner  husk  also.  Take  ten  of  these  with  the  liver  and  pound  well; 
add  a  little  minced  parsley,  a  sliver  of  onion,  salt  and  pepper,  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs;  put  this  into  the  crop  and  sew  up.  Cut  into 
inch  lengths  five  or  six  links  of  small  sausage  that  have  previously 
been  fried  in  butter  until  half  done;  add  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  a 
large  kitchenspoonful  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  add  the  remain- 
ing chestnuts  whole,  and  fill  the  body.  Sew  up  with  strong  thread. 
Tie  the  legs  and  wings  to  the  body  and  fasten  securely  with  skew- 
ers; rub  over  a  little  soft  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with 
flour.  Wrap  in  slices  of  bacon  and  place  in  dripping-pan.  Baste 
often,  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  a  pound  in  moderate  oven.    It 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  537 

should  be  browned  evenly  all  over.    Boil  the  giblets  until  done. 
Mince  very  fine  and  add  to  the  gravy. 

Roast  Chestnuts — Boil  in  plenty  of  water  one-half  hour,  then 
take  them  out  and  place  in  a  pan  with  holes  in  it,  shake  them  over 
the  fire,  first  slitting  the  sides,  to  prevent  them  from  flying  off. 

Chestnut  Croquettes  (a  most  delicious  accompaniment  to 
turkey) — Use  fifty  chestnuts,  two  gills  of  cream,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  butter,  saltspoon  of  salt,  four  eggs  and  some  sifted  bread 
crumbs  for  breading.  Shell  the  chestnuts,  put  into  a  stewpan  with 
enough  water  to  cover  them.  Boil  thirty  minutes.  Drain  off  the 
water  and  pound  the  nuts  until  very  fine;  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  the  butter  and  pound  until  well  mixed;  add  balance  of  butter 
and  the  salt  and  pound  ten  minutes,  then  add  the  cream,  a  little 
at  a  time.  When  it  is  all  worked  in  rub  the  mixture  through  a 
sieve.  Beat  three  eggs  until  light  and  stir  into  that  which  has 
been  strained.  Place  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  eight  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  It  should  by  this  time  be  smooth  and  thick, 
if  the  water  in  the  outer  boiler  has  been  boiling  rapidly.  Spread 
on  a  large  platter  to  cool.  When  cold,  butter  the  hands  and  mold 
into  balls  or  cones.  Dip  into  the  fourth  egg,  then  into  the  bread 
crumbs;  fry  a  minute  and  a  half.  Arrange  on  a  warm  napkin 
and  serve. 

Sweetbread  Salad — Select  two  large  sweetbreads,  let  them  lie 
in  tepid  water  a  half-hour,  then  boil  in  salted  water  twenty  min- 
utes, have  water  boiling  before  putting  them  in,  then  drop  in  cold 
water  to  harden;  draw  off  the  outer  casing,  remove  the  little  pipes 
and  cut  into  small  dice.  Cut  into  small  pieces  half  a  pint  of  mush- 
rooms and  enough  celery  to  equal  both.  Mix  mayonnaise  by  put- 
ting the  yolks  of  three  eggs  into  a  bowl,  beat  well  and  add  a  few 
drops  of  oil,  stir  until  it  disappears  in  the  yolks,  add  a  little  more 
and  so  on,  stirring  until  the  last  oil  is  blended  into  the  yolks  be- 
fore adding  more.  When  it  is  a  pale  opaque  yellow  "it  has  come" 
and  the  oil  can  be  added  in  larger  quantities.  In  five  minutes 
more  it  should  be  as  thick  as  butter  and  cling  to  the  spoon.  Add 
a  few  drops  of  vinegar — this  whitens  it — stir  a  few  seconds  and  it 
will  look  like  cream,  and  then  add  oil  until  it  is  very  thick  again. 
Then  add  a  dessertspoonful  of  vinegar,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  little  white  pepper;  if  liked,  a  sprinkle  of  cayenne.  Pour  over 
the  above  mixture,  reserving  a  little  for  the  top.  Toss  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Spread  the  remainder  over  the  top,  and  garnish  with 
white  celery  tips  and  olives. 

Mince  for  Pie — Half-pound  raw  beef,  half  pound  suet,  one 
pound  tart  apples;  chop  each  finely  and  separately.  Half  a  pound 
of  currants,  well  washed  and  dried;  half  a  pound  raisins,  seeded; 
half  a  pound  citron,  cut  into  small  bits;  half  a  pound  brown 
sugar,  half  a  pint  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  ounce  salt,  half 
ounce  mixed  spices  (cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice,  most  of  cinna- 
mon), one-fourth  ounce  white  pepper,  one-half  grated  nutmeg, 
juice  of  one  lemon,  half  a  pint  of  cider.  Mix  meat,  suet,  salt  and 
spices;  then  add  apples,  then  fruit,  then  cider,  and  last  of  all  the 
sugar.    Bake  the  day  before,  between  two  crusts  of  rich  pastry. 


538  THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

Pumpkin  Pie — Pie  should  be  at  least  an  inch  thick.  Two  cups 
stewed  pumpkin,  one  teaspoonful  ginger,  half  teaspoonful  salt, 
two-thirds  cup  of  sugar,  half  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  two  eggs,  one 
scant  pint  milk.  Mix  sugar,  spice  and  salt  together,  stir  into  the 
pumpkin;  add  eggs  and  milk.  There  should  be  one  quart  when 
finished.  Line  a  tin  plate  with  good  pastry,  fill  with  mixture  and 
bake  forty-five  minutes.  To  please  the  children,  cut  from  thin 
pastry  the  letters  spelling  "Thanksgiving"  and  lay  on  the  top 
when  half  baked. 

Chocolate  Cream  Cake — One  cup  granulated  sugar,  half  cup 
butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  small  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  whites  of  four  eggs;  mix  well  and  bake  in  square  tin. 
Frosting — One  and  a  half  cups  granulated  sugar,  half  cup  of  milk; 
boil  exactly  four  minutes;  stir  until  cool  or  thick;  spread  on  cake; 
melt  half  cake  of  chocolate  and  pour  on  top. 

Buttercup  Jelly — Half  a  package  of  gelatine  soaked  in  half  a 
cup  of  water  two  hours,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  one 
heaping  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Dissolve 
a  bit  of  soda  about  the  size  of  a  pea  in  the  milk.  Scald  the  milk 
in  a  double  kettle;  stir  in  the  gelatine  until  dissolved;  strain 
through  a  coarse  cloth.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  sugar  and 
pour  the  boiling  mixture  upon  it,  stirring  constantly.  Return  to 
kettle  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Whip  the  white  of  an 
egg  stiff.  When  the  yellow  jelly  coagulates  around  edges  set  the 
bowl  containing  the  frothed  white  in  ice  water,  and  beat  the  jelly 
into  it  spoonful  at  a  time  until  it  is  all  in  and  the  sponge  is  thick 
and  smooth.    Wet  a  mold,  pour  in  jelly  and  set  on  ice  to  form. 

P.  O.  Box  242,  Riverside,  111.  Mrs.  P.  B.  Gehr. 


FRIDAY,   NOVEMBER  THE  TWENTY-SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  apples. 
Egged  veal  hash.  Spanish  toast. 

Oatmeal  gems.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Sausage  rolls.  Baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Stewed  prunes.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Turkey-bone  soup. 

Cusk-^-la-creme.  Celery  on  toast. 

Mashed  potatoes.    Creamed  parsnips. 

Banana  custard.  Coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  539 

Oatmeal  Gems— Mix  with  one  and  a  half  teacupfuls  of  finely 
ground  oatmeal  half  a  teacupful  of  cornmeal,  one  teacupful  of  flour 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Mix  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
two  teacupfuls  of  milk.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Sausage  Rolls— Make  a  light  biscuit  dough  with  milk,  roll 
it  out  thin  and  cut  into  shape  with  a  biscuit-cutter.  In  the  center 
of  each  place  a  roll  of  sausage  the  size  of  a  good-sized  hickory  nut 
and  roll  it  up  in  the  dough.  After  letting  them  stand  in  the  pan 
for  a  few  minutes,  bake  and  serve  hot.  These  rolls  are  also  good 
cold,  and  when  children  we  used  to  have  them  to  take  to  school 
for  our  luncheon  in  bad  weather. 

Turkey-Bone  Soup — Take  the  bones  and  scraps  left  from  roast 
turkey,  or  chicken,  or  any  kind  of  game.  Lay  aside  any  nice 
pieces,  no  matter  how  small.  Remove  all  the  stuffing  and  keep 
that  by  itself.  Break  the  bones  and  pack  them  closely  in  a  kettle. 
Cover  with  cold  v/ater.  Add  one  small  onion,  sliced;  the  outer 
stalks  and  leaves  of  a  head  of  celery;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Simmer  two  or  three  hours,  or  until 
the  bones  are  clean.  Strain,  and  remove  the  fat.  Put  the  lictuor 
on  to  boil  again,  and  for  every  quart  of  liquor  allow  three  salt- 
spoons  of  salt  and  one  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Add  one  cup  of  cold 
meat  cut  into  small  pieces  and  half  a  cup  of  the  stufiing.  Or 
omit  the  stuffing  and  thicken  the  soup  with  fiour.  Simmer  until 
the  meat  is  tender,  and  serve  at  once.  This  is  much  better  than  to 
boil  the  meat,  bones  and  stuffing  together.  In  that  case,  the  stuff- 
ing absorbs  the  oil  and  gives  a  very  strong  fiavor  to  the  soup. 

If  you  wish  variety  and  prefer  to  use  the  chips  of  meat  in  some 
other  way,  a  few  sticks  of  macaroni,  or  spaghetti  or  vermicelli, 
broken  in  two-inch  lengths,  may  be  added  to  the  soup  instead,  in 
which  case  the  macaroni  should  simmer  at  least  three-quarters 
of  an  hour,  the  spaghetti  one-half  hour,  and  the  vermicelli  fifteen 
minutes. 

Tomatoes  (a  pint)  to  a  quart  of  stock  make  another  pleasing 
variety.  The  bones  of  a  twelve-pound  turkey  should  furnish  stock 
for  three  dinners.  Do  not  throw  them  away  until  every  bit  of 
substance  has  been  drawn  out. 

Cusk-a-la-Creme — Take  one  quart  of  pieces  of  cold  fish,  either 
boiled  or  baked.  Put  one  quart  of  milk,  with  one  blade  of  mace, 
a  sprig  of  parsley  and  a  bay  leaf  into  the  milk  boiler  to  boil.  Stir 
together  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  and  one  ounce  of  butter. 
Remove  the  bay  leaf,  mace  and  parsley  from  the  milk  and  stir  in 
cornstarch  and  butter.  Add  also  to  the  milk  the  beaten  yolks  of 
two  eggs;  one  teaspoonful  salt  and  one-half  teaspoonful  pepper. 
Put  a  layer  of  fish  in  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  sauce, 
and  so  continue  until  all  Is  used,  having  sauce  on  top.  Sprinkle 
over  the  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown. 
Serve  in  baking  dish.  Mrs.  Carl  J.  Sunde, 

No.  1323  Seventy-second  Street,  Chicago. 


540  THE   CHICAGO    RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

SATURDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  TWENTY-SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Nectared  oranges. 

Broiled  whitefish,  with  sliced  lemon. 

Potato  croquettes.    Hot  rolls. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Corn  fritters.  Deviled  ham  sandwiches. 

Pickled  green  tomatoes. 

Prune   sponge.  Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Beef  soup  with  almond  balls. 

Cold  turkey.  Baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Scalloped  tomatoes.  Celery  salad. 

Children's  favorite  dessert. 

Coffee. 


Nectared  Oranges — Cut  five  oranges  in  thin  slices,  carefully 
remove  seeds.  Sprinkle  freely  with  powdered  sugar,  add  juice 
of  one  lemon  and  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Let  stand  in  cool 
place  over  night. 

Prune  Sponge — Separate  three  eggs.  Beat  whites  to  stiff 
froth.  Add  one  yolk  at  a  time  to  beaten  whites.  Then  lightly 
mix  in  one-half  cup  sifted  granulated  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon 
vanilla,  and,  lastly,  beat  in  lightly  three-fourths  cup  finely  sifted 
flour,  in  which  three-fourths  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  has 
been  thoroughly  mixed.  Boil  and  seed  fifteen  prunes,  chop  fine, 
add  one-half  cup  sugar  and  juice  of  one-half  lemon.  Butter  pud- 
ding dish;  put  in  prune  mixture,  add  sponge  and  bake  twenty 
to  twenty-five  minutes. 

Almond  Balls — Pound  5  cents  worth  of  almonds  to  a  fine  pulp. 
Beat  two  eggs  very  thoroughly,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add 
a  little  very  finely  minced  parsley,  then  add  pounded  almonds 
and  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  finely  sifted  fiour  and  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder.  Roll  with  buttered  palms  into  small  balls  and 
boil  in  soup  just  before  serving. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes — Season  one-half  can  tomatoes  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  an 
onion.  Add  a  cupful  of  finely  minced  celery.  Butter  baking 
dish;  first  put  in  half  of  the  tomatoes,  then  a  layer  of  buttered 
soda  crackers,  sprinkled  with  tv/o  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  American  cheese.  Then  add  tomatoes,  sprinkle  the  top 
with  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Children's    Favorite    Dessert — Open    ten    ladyfingers,    spread 


.  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  541 

With  jelly  and  reclose.  Beat  three  yolks  of  eggs  thoroughly  with 
one-half  cup  sugar,  add  one  and  one-half  cups  sweet  milk  and  two 
tablespoons  cornstarch  creamed  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Boil  this 
until  it  begins  to  thicken.  ¥/hen  cold  add  one-half  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Place  ladyfingers  in  pudding  dish,  pour  over  the  cus- 
tard and  put  on  top  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  to  which  one-half 
cup  pov/dered  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon  has  been  added. 
Put  in  oven  until  light  brov/n.     Serve  very  cold. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Joseph. 
No.  140  Eugenie  Street,  Chicago. 


SUNDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  TWENTY-EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal  with  cream.  Codfish  croquettes. 

Flannel  pancakes  with  quince  sirup. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

English  stuffed  peppers.  Creamed  potatoes, 

French  roils.  Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Split-pea  soup. 

Creamed  chicken  fricassee  with  mushrooms. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Pumpkin   custards.     Coffee, 


Quince  Sirup — This  is  delicious  eaten  with  hot  biscuits,  waf- 
fles or  griddle  cakes.  Boil  together  two  cupfuls  of  water  and  five 
cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar  for  five  minutes.  Then  add  the  juice 
of  one  sour  orange  and  two  grated  quinces,  boiling  all  about 
ten  minutes  longer.  This  may  be  kept  for  a  long  time  if  bottled 
and  sealed. 

English  Stuffed  Peppers — Remove  the  stem,  cut  five  green 
peppers  in  two  lengthwise,  and  take  out  the  inside.  Put  the 
shells  Into  boiling  water  and  let  them  cook  five  minutes;  then 
throw  them  into  cold  water.  Make  a  stuffing  in  the  proportion 
of  one  cupful  of  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  stock  to  one  cupful  of 
finely  chopped  meat;  season  with  one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice, 
one-quarter  teaspoonful  each  of  savory  and  thyme,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Drain  the  shells  and  fill 
them  with  the  stuffing,  heaping  them.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  a 
few  crumbs  brov/ned  in  butter  and  putting  bits  of  butter  over 
them.  Place  the  half-peppers  in  a  deep  earthen  pie  dish,  pour 
half  a  cupful  of  stock  around  them,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 


$42  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOIC  J&OOiC. 

thirty  minutes.  Serve  the  peppers  directly  from  the  oven  in  the 
same  dish  they  are  baked  in. 

Creamed  Chicken  Fricassee  with  Mushrooms — Cut  a  fine, 
well-cleaned  chicken  of  three  or  four  pounds  into  ten  pieces;  put 
them  into  a  large  saucepan  of  boiling  water  for  three  minutes; 
then  drain  in  a  colander  and  instantly  plunge  into  cold  water, 
letting  them  remain  five  minutes.  Take  out  the  chicken,  place 
it  in  a  clean  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  white  onions  and  a  bunch  of 
herbs;  cover  and  boil  slowly  until  tender;  drain  off  the  broth  and 
strain  it.  Melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  two 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  fiour,  stir  and  cook  two  minutes;  add 
the  chicken  broth  and  half  a  can  of  mushrooms,  or  the  same 
quantity  of  fresh  ones,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes;  then  take  out 
the  mushrooms,  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  sauce,  add  more  salt, 
if  necessary.  Mix  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  half  a  pint  of 
cream,  add  it  slowly  to  the  gravy,  and,  lastly,  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon.  Arrange  the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  over  the  gravy, 
lay  the  mushrooms  in  clusters  around  and  garnish  with  sprigs 
of  parsley. 

Pumpkin  Custards — Pare,  cut  into  pieces  and  cook  pumpkin 
sufiicient  to  make  one  pint.  The  first  cooking  of  this  is  quite  im- 
portant. Put  the  pieces  into  a  kettle;  add  one-half  cupful  of  wa- 
ter; cover  the  kettle  and  allow  the  pumpkin  to  steam  until  ten- 
der. Then  remove  the  lid  and  allow  the  water  to  evaporate. 
Drain  this  in  a  colander,  then  press  the  pumpkin  through,  re- 
jecting every  particle  of  moisture.  Beat  three  eggs  without  sep- 
arating; add  to  them  one  pint  of  milk  and  then  the  pumpkin,  a 
half-teacupful  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  a  half- 
teaspoonful  of  ginger;  mix  and  turn  into  small  custard  cups; 
stand  these  cups  in  a  baking  dish  of  hot  water  and  cook  in  the 
oven  thirty  minutes.  When  done  turn  from  the  cups  and  serve 
without  sauce.  Miss  Alice  Caskey. 

Burlington,  Wis. 


MONDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  TWENTY-NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Nudavene  fiakes,  cream  and  sugar. 

Hamburg  steak.  Baked  potatoes. 

Breakfast  fruit  cake. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Warmed  potatoes.  Anchovy  toast. 

Pickled  eggs. 

Graham  bread.  Baked  apples. 

Tea  or  bromo. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK,  ^ 


DINNER. 

Sago  soup. 

Stewed  rabbit.  Potato  puff. 

Boiled  artichokes.  Red  cabbage,  pickled. 

Steamed  stale  bread. 

Cream  puff. 

Coffee. 


Nudavene  Flakes — Pour  enough  boiling  water  over  two  cup- 
fuls  of  flakes  to  cover  them,  salt  to  taste,  and  boil  ten  minutes. 

Breakfast  Fruit  Cake — One  pound  cold  boiled  potatoes  mashed 
smooth;  add  one  pound  flour,  half  a  pound  finely  chopped  suet, 
a  little  less  than  half  a  pound  of  currants  and  two  ounces  moist 
sugar.  A  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  should  be  mixed  with 
the  flour  in  its  dry  state.  Roll  out  the  dough  to  half-inch  thick- 
ness and  bake  in  moderate  oven.    Cut  into  squares  and  serve  hot. 

Anchovy  Toast — Remove  the  tops  and  bottoms  from  five 
lunch  rolls;  then  cut  each  in  two  slices;  toast  and  butter  them. 
Wash  and  remove  hones  from  anchovies,  chop  very  fine,  spread 
on  five  of  the  pieces  of  toast;  cover  with  remaining  pieces,  ar- 
range on  their  dish,  and  pour  over  custard  made  as  follows: 
Place  one-half  pint  of  cream  in  a  double  boiler;  as  soon  as  it 
comes  to  a  boil  add  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  let  it  thicken.  Serve 
hot. 

Stewed  Rabbit — Cut  up  and  disjoint  the  rabbit;  put  into  a 
stewpan  with  about  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  two  slices  of 
salt  pork  and  stew  slowly  until  quite  tender;,  slice  an  onion, 
dredge  with  flour  and  fry  brown  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter; 
add  this  to  the  stewed  rabbit,  thicken  with  browned  flour  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

Boiled  Artichokes — Wash  artichokes,  peel  and  put  them  into 
a  saucepan  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover;  add  salt  and  boil 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  they  are  soft.  When  done,  drain  them, 
and  serve  with  melted  butter  poured  over  them. 

Steamed  Stale  Bread — Old  bread  may  be  freshened  by  putting 
it  into  a  steamer  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  letting  it  re- 
main until  it  becomes  soft. 

Cream  Puff — Mix  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  four  of 
milk  until  smooth.  Beat  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  add  one-half 
cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  then  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  then 
the  juice,  and  lastly  the  flour  paste.  Cut  into  mixture  with  as 
little  stirring  as  possible  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  beaten  stif- 
fly, and  place  in  buttered  and  warmed  pudding  dish;  powder  with 
sugar  and  bake  twelve  minutes,  Mrs.  J.  F.  Cummings. 

Elkhorn,  Wis. 


544  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

TUESDAY,  NOVEMBER  THE  THIRTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oat  flakes  with  cream. 

Stewed  heart.  Graham  gems. 

Cinnamon  rolls. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Popovers.  Cheese  omelet. 

Spiced  pears. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Piquant  pea  soup. 

Curried  mutton.  Potato  snow. 

Cranberries. 

Jellied     apples. 

Coffee. 


Stewed  Heart— Clean  heart,  cut  up  in  neat  pieces  and  soak 
over  night  in  milk.  In  the  morning  place  in  a  stewpan,  with  one 
bay  leaf,  one  or  two  slices  of  lemon;  stew  slowly  with  one  pint 
of  soup  stock.  When  tender  add  half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-half 
saltspoon  pepper,  small  bit  of  red  pepper;  thicken  sauce  with  a 
tablespoonful  browned  flour.  Cook  ten  minutes  longer  and 
serve. 

Piquant  Pea  Soup — One  pint  of  green  dried  peas — or  fresh 
ones.  If  dried  scald  in  a  solution  of  saleratus  water,  blanch  them 
thoroughly  and  cook  gently  in  two  quarts  of  water  until  tender 
and  soft.  Pass  them  through  a  sieve.  Chop  two  onions  and  fry 
in  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  six  cloves  and  one  bay  leaf 
and  then  stir  all  together.  Put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a 
cup  of  either  canned  or  whole  tomatoes.  Let  the  whole  cook 
very  slowly  for  an  hour,  when,  if  it  seems  too  thick,  add  a  little 
boiling  water  and  let  it  cook  a  little  longer.  Then  add  a  pinch 
of  red  pepper  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  just  before  serving 
a  cupful  of  squares  of  bread  which  have  been  fried  brown  in  but- 
ter until  of  a  pretty  golden  hue. 

Curried  Mutton — Put  four  ounces  of  butter  in  a  stewpan  with 
four  minced  onions,  add  an  ounce  of  curry  powder,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour  and  half  a  pint  of  cream;  stir 
until  smooth.  Gently  fry  two  pounds  of  mutton — cut  in  small, 
neat  pieces — to  a  light-brown  color.  Lay  the  meat  in  a  stewpan 
and  pour  the  sauce  over;  simmer  very  gently  until  the  meat  is 
quite  tender. 

Jellied  Apples — This  is  a  delightful  dish.    Peel  and  quarter 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK.  S45 

Ben  Davis  apples.  Place  in  a  pudding  dish,  with  one  cupful  of 
white  sugar.  Lay  over  them  a  plate  that  fits  perfectly  tight.  Let 
them  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three  or  four  hours;  set  aside  to 
partly  cool.  Grease  a  mold  scantly.  Dot  it  with  bits  of  bright- 
colored  jelly.  Just  as  apples  are  commencing  "to  set"  pour  them 
carefully  in  mold  and  set  away  until  ready  to  serve. 

Holdrege,  Neb.  Eda  Uhlig. 


WEDNESDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit  salad. 

Meat  croquettes.  Lyonnaise  potatoes. 

French  coffee  cake. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Creamed  shrimps  on  toast. 

Brown  bread  Brandied  peaches. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Fried  chicken  with  rice. 

Flaked  potatoes.  Celery  salad. 

Fig  pudding,  egg  sauce. 

Coffee. 


Fruit  Salad — Take  equal  portions  of  orange  pulp,  grape  fruit 
and  Malaga  grapes,  from  which  the  seeds  and  skins  have  been 
removed.  Mix  these  ingredients  well  together,  sugar,  and  serve 
in  half  orange  skins. 

Meat  Croquettes — Take  roast  beef,  pork,  veal,  mutton  or  any 
cold  meat  left  over  from  the  day  before.  Chop  very  fine.  For 
one  pint  of  the  chopped  meat  make  the  following  sauce:  One 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  rubbed  thoroughly  with  two  of  butter; 
add  this  mixture  slowly  to  one  cup  of  boiling  milk,  and  stir  until 
thick  and  smooth.  Mix  this  well  with  the  meat  and  season  with 
three-quarters  teaspoon  salt  and  one  saltspoon  pepper.  Make 
into  small  rolls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry 
in  hot  lard. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes — In  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  brown  a 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion;  then  add  a  pint  of  cold  boiled  po- 
tatoes, sliced  thin  or  cut  in  dice.  When  they  have  fried  a  delicate 
brown  add  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley  and  one  of  lemon 
juice,  saltspoon  of  salt  and  serve  at  once. 

French  Coffee  Cake — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two-thirds 
of  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  an  equal  quantity  of  milk,  the  yolk  of  one 
egg.  Beat  these  ingredients  well  together,  then  add  one  and  two- 
thirds  cups  of  flour,  with  which  has  been  sifted  one  teaspoonful 
35 


546  THE   CHICAGO   RECORD   COOK  BOOK. 

of  baking  powder,  and  lastly  stir  in  the  beaten  white  of  one 
egg.  Bake  in  square  tins;  when  done  sprinkle  over  the  top  one 
tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar  mixed  with  one  teaspoonlul  of 
cinnamon. 

Creamed  Shrimps  on  Toast— Wash  and  drain  one  can  of 
Bavarian  shrimps.  Put  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter; when  it  melts  add  the  same  quantity  of  flour  and  rub  smooth, 
but  do  not  brown.  Pour  on  this  a  quart  of  milk  and  bring  to  a 
boil.  Season  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  little 
minced  parsley,  add  the  shrimps  and  let  the  mixture  stand  on 
the  back  of  the  stove  until  it  is  thoroughly  heated  through,  then 
pour  over  toasted  bread. 

Fried  Chicken  with  Rice — Half  fry  a  chicken.  Then  boil  half 
a  cup  of  rice  in  a  pint  of  water,  leaving  the  grains  distinct,  but 
not  too  dry.  Before  the  rice  is  added  the  water  must  be  boiling. 
Add  to  the  rice  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  when  it 
cools  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  half-teaspoon  salt,  pepper  and 
nutmeg,  if  the  last  is  liked.  Put  the  chicken  into  a  pudding 
dish,  cover  with  the  rice  and  bake  until  nicely  browned  in  an 
oven  not  too  hot. 

Fig  Pudding — Take  half  a  pound  of  figs  and  three-fourths  of 
a  cup  of  sugar;  add  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning  and 
cook  to  a  jelly.  Mix  together  one  cup  of  chopped  suet,  a  cup  and 
a  half  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  add  enough  sweet  milk  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  the  dough  out,  cover  with  a  layer  of 
the  cooked  figs,  roll  together  like  a  jelly  cake;  put  into  a  bag  and 
steam  about  three  hours. 

Egg  Sauce — One-third  cup  of  butter,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
sugar,  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Pour  on  this  mixture  one  cup  boil- 
ing water,  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla  and  cook  two  minutes. 

No.  291  Ontario  Street,  Chicago.  Mrs.  C.  V.  Stockdale. 


THURSDAY,    DECEMBER    THE    SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  apples  and  cream. 

Wheat  germ  mush. 

Ham  omelet. 

Foam  griddle  cakes. 

Maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Fricasseed  oysters. 

Sweet  cantaloupe  pickle. 

Celery. 

Baking-powder  biscuit. 

Tea. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  547 

DINNER. 

Cream  of  barley  soup. 

Beefsteak  potpie,  suet  crust 

Spinach  (French  style). 

Dinner  bread. 

Rennet  pudding. 

Nuts.  Grapes.  Raisins. 


Baked  Apples — Pare  and  core  the  apples  and  bake  until  soft 
(time  from  one-half  hour  to  one  hour,  according  to  the  kind  of 
apple).  For  six  apples  put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  in  the 
pan.  The  hole  made  by  the  removal  of  the  core  can  be  filled  by 
sugar  and  a  small  piece  of  butter  if  preferred.  Eat  with  sugar 
and  cream. 

Ham  Omelet — Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  six  eggs.  To 
the  yolks  add  six  tablespoons  of  milk,  a  small  teacupful  of  finely 
chopped  ham,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley;  beat  hard.  Lastly  stir  in 
gently  the  whites,  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have 
ready  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  heated  in  a  spider,  pour  in  the  eggs 
and  stir  well  with  a  fork  until  the  pap  becomes  quite  thick.  In- 
cline the  pan,  shake  so  as  to  bring  the  omelet  near  one  of  the 
edges  and  begin  to  fold  it.  It  should  be  long,  thick  in  the  middle 
and  soft  inside.  Time  for  cooking,  five  minutes,  over  a  bright 
fire.  Cold  chicken  or  veal  can  be  used,  in  which  case  a  little  salt 
must  be  added. 

Foam  Griddle  Cakes — One-half  pint  of  sour  milk,  pinch  of  salt, 
yolk  of  one  egg,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  enough 
Hour  to  make  a  batter;  beat  all  together  for  five  minutes,  then  add 
one-third  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  one  tablespoon  of 
boiling  water,  and  lastly  the  white  of  the  egg,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  stirred  in  slowly  and  carefully  as  for  sponge  cake.  Bake 
immediately  on  a  hot  griddle. 

The  nicest  way  to  grease  a  griddle  is  to  use  a  large  piece  of 
beef  suet  tied  in  a  thin  cloth. 

Maple  Sirup — Maple  sirup  can  be  made  by  melting  the  sugar 
in  boiling  water  until  a  sirup  a  little  thinner  than  molasses  is 
obtained. 

Fricasseed  Oysters — Put  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, and  when  melted  add  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour  and  stir 
imtil  smooth.  Add  one  cup  of  oyster  liquor  strained  through 
cheese  cloth,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  one  quart  of  oysters, 
previously  drained.  Season  with  three-quarters  teaspoon  salt  and 
a  trifle  of  red  pepper  (a  little  nutmeg  if  liked.  When  the  oysters 
curl  on  the  edges  they  are  done.  Then  stir  in  an  egg  which  has 
been  thoroughly  beaten,  and  in  a  minute  pour  the  fricassee  over 
hot  crackers.     This  is  a  very  nice  recipe  for  a  chafing  dish. 

Sweet  Pickle  Cantaloupe — Cantaloupe  pickles  should  be  made 
in  September.  Pare  the  cantaloupes,  remove  the  seeds  and  cut 
in  strips.  To  seven  pounds  of  fruit  allow  three  pounds  of  sugar 
and  one  pint  of  white  wine  vinegar.    Boil  the  sugar  and  vinegar 


548  THE   CHICAGO  RECORD   COOK   BOOK. 

together,  adding  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon  and  a  few  cloves; 
boil  the  strips  of  cantaloupe  in  the  sirup  until  they  look  clear- 
several  hours  are  required.    Seal  in  jars. 

Celery — Celery  should  be  prepared  for  the  table  at  least  two 
hours  before  using  and  kept  in  ice  water  until  the  last  minute. 
This  insures  crispness.  It  is  well  to  take  the  large  outside  stalks 
for  cooking  and  use  only  the  smaller  inside  pieces  for  the  table. 

Baking-Powder  Biscuit — One  quart  of  flour,  three  small  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  rubbed  together  with  tips  of  fingers.  Wet  with  cold 
sweet  milk  until  a  paste  is  formed  that  can  be  rolled  out  and  cut 
into  biscuit  with  a  cake-cutter.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  ten 
minutes. 

Tea — Tea  should  never  be  boiled,  but  the  pot  should  first  be 
heated,  then  the  tea  should  be  measured  into  it  and  boiling  water 
poured  over,  and  after  steeping  a  few  minutes  it  is  ready  to  drink. 
One  teaspoonful  of  India  or  Ceylon  tea  makes  two  cupfuls. 

Barley  Soup — Wash  two  tablespoonfuls  of  barley  and  let  it 
stand  in  cold  water  one-half  hour.  Cook  until  soft  in  boiling 
water — two  hours  required.  Take  three  pints  of  soup  stock  and 
boil  the  barley  in  it  for  an  hour.  Beat  in  a  bowl  the  yolk  of  one 
egg,  one-half  cupful  of  milk  or  cream  and  one-half  tablespoonful 
of  butter;  add,  little  by  little,  while  stirring,  a  cupful  of  the  boil- 
ing stock;  then  draw  the  soup  kettle  to  the  corner  of  the  stove 
and  stir  steadily  while  pouring  the  mixture  in,  but  do  not  let  the 
soup  boil  again.    Serve  immediately. 

Beefsteak  Potpie,  Suet  Crust — Cut  in  small  pieces  two  pounds 
of  round  steak,  season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Put  them  in 
a  pot  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  one  minced 
onion  and  one  quart  of  water.  Cover  them  and  let  them  stew 
slowly  for  an  hour.  Boil  six  potatoes  and  cut  in  quarters.  Put 
one-third  of  a  pound  of  suet  into  one  quart  of  flour,  add  a  little 
salt  and  enough  cold  water  to  make  it  a  lump  of  dough.  Too  much 
water  makes  it  tough  and  heavy.  Line  the  sides  part  way  down  of 
a  deep  baking  dish  with  the  paste  rolled  thin,  then  fill  the  dish  in 
layers,  alternately  formed,  of  the  meat  with  its  gravy,  the  potatoes 
and  squares  cut  of  the  paste.  Let  the  dish  be  full  to  the  brim 
with  gravy.  Cover  it  v/ith  a  crust  of  the  paste,  place  a  small 
paper  funnel  in  the  center  as  a  vent  for  the  boiling  gravy  and 
remove  it  before  serving.    Bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Spinach,  French  Style — Wash  one-quarter  of  a  peck  of  spin- 
ach and  boil  it  in  enough  boiling  water  to  float  it.  A  little  salt 
should  be  in  the  water.  Stir  it  frequently  that  all  the  leaves  may 
be  equally  done.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  take  it  out,  drain  well  and 
chop  fine.  Prepare  in  a  saucepan  one-half  ounce  of  butter,  one- 
half  tablespoon  of  flour,  two  tablespoons  of  cream  or  milk  and 
a  saltspoon  of  sugar  thoroughly  mixed.  When  this  comes  to  a 
boil  put  in  the  spinach  gradually  and  let  it  cook  ten  minutes  (stir- 
ring frequently).  Serve  hot,  garnished  with  leaves  of  puff  paste 
that  can  be  cut  with  a  tin-cutter  from  any  pie  crust  and  must  be 
freshly  baked.     Toasted  bread  can  he  substituted  if  preferred. 


THE   CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  549 

Spinach,  German  style,  is  prepared, in  the  same  manner  without 
the  sugar. 

Rennet  Pudding — To  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  warmed  a  little 
add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  of  rennet,  stir  a  few  moments 
carefully  and  let  it  stand  undisturbed  in  a  cold  place  for  three 
hours.  Serve  in  the  same  dish  and  eat  with  a  little  sugar  and 
wine  over  it,  or  sweetened  cream  flavored  with  vanilla.  Rennet 
can  be  bought  at  any  first-class  grocery. 

The  best  way  to  flavor  with  vanilla  is  to  buy  two  of  the  best 
Mexican  vanilla  beans  and  put  them  in  a  quart  jar  filled  with 
granulated  sugar  and  kept  tightly  closed.  Use  the  sugar  instead 
of  the  extract  of  vanilla  in  making  desserts  that  you  wish  to  sea- 
son and  a  delicate  vanilla  flavor  is  obtained.  The  jar  can  be  re- 
filled with  sugar  a  number  of  times  for  the  same  beans. 

No.  59  Cedar  Street,  Chicago.  Mrs.  George  M.  High. 


FRIDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  bananas  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Buttered  toast. 

Liver  and  bacon  balls. 

Corn  Muffins.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Eggs  Milanese. 

Steamed  brown  bread. 

Turkey  or  chicken  in  savory  jelly. 

Wafiies  with  maple  sirup. 

Russian  tea. 


DINNER. 

Soup  Neapolitan. 

Baked  whitefish — oyster  sauce. 

Mashed  potato. 

Celery  and  nut  salad. 

Steamed  fruit  pudding.  Coffee. 


Liver  and  Bacon  Balls — One  cup  of  boiled  calf's  liver,  one-half 
cup  bacon,  mince  very  fine,  add  one-half  saltspoon  pepper,  form 
into  balls  or  small  cakes,  dip  in  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  hot  fat;   serve  garnished  with  parsley. 

Eggs  Milanese — One-half  cup  of  rice,  cooked  till  tender;  drain; 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  six  hard-boiled  eggs;  chop  the  yolks, 
put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  saucepan,  one-half  cup  of 
stock,  then  add  the  yolks  and  rice,  add  a  little  salt  and  cayenne 


550  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

pepper;  make  very  hot  and  serve  on  slices  of  buttered  toast. 
Garnish  with  the  whites  of  eggs,  cut  in  slices. 

Soup  Neapolitan — Five  cups  of  well-seasoned  stock.  Make  a 
paste  of  one  egg  in  flour,  to  which  a  pinch  of  salt  has  been  added. 
Form  into  balls  the  size  of  a  thimble,  drop  in  the  soup  ten  min- 
utes before  serving,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of 
Parmesan  cheese  and  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Turkey  or  Chicken  in  Savory  Jelly  —  Two  cups  of  stock,  in 
which  an  onion,  celery  and  bay  leaf  have  been  boiled;  one-half 
pint  of  water,  one-fourth  package  of  gelatine,  a  little  salt  and 
pepper,  tablespoonful  of  brown  caramel;  dissolve  the  jelly  in  the 
stock  and  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  some  of  the 
jelly  in  a  mold,  add  pieces  of  light  and  dark  meat  of  boiled  turkey 
or  chicken,  add  more  jelly,  then  meat  till  the  mold  is  full.  Serve 
garnished  with  celery. 

Baked  Whitefish— A  four-pound  fish,  split  open  on  the  back, 
remove  the  bones,  lay  it  inside  up  in  a  dripping  pan,  brush  over 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  add  a 
half-teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  sprinkle 
with  fine  cracker  crumbs,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  thirty  minutes. 

Oyster  Sauce  —  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
teaspoonful  of  minced  onions  and  parsley;  fry  lightly;  add  one 
cup  of  oyster  liquor,  one  cup  of  oyster  meats  and  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  a  saltspoon  salt  and  one-fourth  saltspoon  pepper;  stir  till 
thick,  but  do  not  let  boil. 

Celery  and  Nut  Salad— One  cup  each  of  chopped  celery  and 
English  walnuts,  a  little  salt,  one-half  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing, 
to  which  has  been  added  one  cup  of  sweet  cream.  Serve  in  a  bed 
of  blanched  celery  leaves. 

Steamed  Fruit  Pudding— One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  a  little  salt  and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a 
thin  batter,  stir  in  a  cup  of  seedless  raisins,  add  chopped  citron, 
put  in  cups  and  steam  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with  cream  and 
sugar.  Mi's.  Elizabeth  Waldo. 

Charlotte,  Mich. 


SATURDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Salt  codfish  in  puree  of  potatoes. 

Hot  rolls.  Raised  corncake. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Oyster  croquettes.  Celery. 

Toasted  potatoes.  Bread  and  butter. 

Jelly  roll.  Tea. 


THE  CHICAGO   RECORD  COOK   BOOK.  551 

DINNER. 

Egg-barley  soup. 

Scalloped  tongue.        Riced  potatoes. 

Turnips  a  la  creme.  Pickles. 

Golden  pudding.  Crackers.  Cheese. 

Coffee. 


Salt  Codfish  in  Puree  of  Potatoes — Six  large  potatoes,  one  pint 
and  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  small  slice 
of  onion,  one  pint  of  cooked  salt  codfish,  saltspoon  salt,  one-half 
saltspoon  pepper,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Pare  the  po- 
tatoes and  boil,  drain  off  the  water  and  mash  light  and  fine.  Add 
salt,  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  the  cup  of  milk,  which 
has  been  allowed  to  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  very  thoroughly  and 
spread  a  thin  layer  of  potatoes  on  the  center  of  a  hot  platter. 
Heap  the  remainder  around  the  edge,  making  a  wall  to  keep  the 
fish  and  cream,  which  should  then  be  poured  in;  garnish  with 
parsley. 

To  prepare  the  fish  put  the  pint  of  milk  on  to  boil  with  the 
onion.  Mix  flour  and  butter  together  and  when  well  mixed  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  hot  milk,  stir  all  into  the  boiling  milk, 
skim  out  the  onion,  add  the  fish  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Season 
with  pepper. 

Raised  Corncake — One  pint  of  Indian  meal,  one  pint  and  a 
half  of  boiling  milk  or  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  two  of 
butter,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  of  a  cake  of 
compressed  yeast.  Pour  the  boiling  milk  gradually  on  the  meal, 
then  add  salt,  sugar,  butter,  and  beat  well.  Set  away  to  cool,  then 
add  the  yeast  and  the  egg,  well  beaten.  Let  it  rise  five  hours,  then 
put  into  buttered  pans  to  the  depth  of  two  inches.  "  Let  it  stand 
in  warm  place  for  half  an  hour.    Bake  forty-five  minutes. 

Oyster  Croquettes — Half  a  pint  of  raw  oysters,  half  a  pint  of 
cooked  veal,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  cracker  crumbs,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful 
of  onion  juice,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-quarter  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper.  Chop  the  oysters  and  veal  very  fine.  Soak 
the  crackers  in  oyster  liquor;  mix  all  the  ingredients,  and  shape. 
Dip  in  egg  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  as  usual.  Soften 
the  butter  before  mixing. 

Egg  Barley  Soup — Take  three  dry  rolls,  grate  them,  beat  two 
eggs  into  them,  stir  well  together  and  pour  slowly  into  three  pints 
of  boiling  stock,  stir  continually.  It  will  have  the  appearance 
of  barley.  Serve  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg  after  boiling  a  few 
minutes. 

Scalloped  Tongue — Chop  some  cold  salt  tongue  (not  too  fine), 
have  for  each  pint  one  tablespoonful  of  onion  juice,  one  table- 
spoonful chopped  parsley,  one  of  capers,  one  cupful  bread 
crumbs,  half  a  cupful  of  stock,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Butter  the  scallop  dish,  and  cover  the  bottom  with  bread  crumbs. 
Put  in  the  tongue  which  has  been  mixed  v/ith  parsley,  pepper. 


552  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

capers,  and  add  the  stock,  in  which  has  been  mixed  onion  juice. 
Put  part  of  the  butter  on  the  dish  with  the  remainder  of  the  bread 
crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  here  and  there.  Bake  twenty  minutes 
and  serve  hot. 

Turnips  a  la  Creme — Cut  peeled  turnips  into  half-inch  dice, 
boil  in  salted  water  until  tender,  drain;  pour  over  a  cream  sauce 
made  of  one  cup  of  hot  milk,  poured  gradually  over  one  table- 
spoonful  each  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together;  add  a  quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  half  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 

Golden  Pudding — One-quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour,  same 
of  bread  crumbs,  same  of  chopped  suet,  same  of  orange,  peach  or 
apricot  marmalade;  one  egg;  pinch  of  salt;  beat  all  thoroughly 
together,  put  into  a  buttered  bowl,  cover  with  a  cloth  and  boil  two 
and  one-half  hours.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

No.  170  Harding  Avenue,  Chicago.  Mrs.  John  Buie. 


SUNDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  FIFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Hominy  crumpets.  Triangles. 

Farmer's  rice.  Buttered  apples. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Oyster  shortcake. 

Salad  of  pigs'  feet. 

Brown  bread  and  butter. 

Apple  pudding. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Amber  soup. 

Roast  pork  with  sage  and  onion  stuffing. 

Apple  sauce. 

Potatoes  browned  with  the  pork. 

Steamed  turnips.  Tomatoes  and  corn. 

Rolls. 

Canary  cream  with  fruit-foam  sauce. 

Coffee. 


Farmer's  Rice— Heat  in  a  double  boiler  a  quart  of  sweet  milk. 
While  it  is  heating  beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  light,  and  rub  into 
them  all  the  flour  they  will  take  smoothly.  Just  as  the  milk 
comes  to  the  scalding  point  stir  in  the  thickened  eggs,  which  must 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  553 

first  have  a  cup  of  the  hot  milk  mixed  with  them.  Stir,  and  let  it 
come  to  the  scalding  point  again;  then  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt 
and  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper  and  serve  at  once.  Salted  wafers 
should  accompany  it. 

Hominy  Crumpets — These  must  be  set  over  night.  Beat  well 
together  two  cups  of  milk,  four  tablespoonfuls  yeast,  one  table- 
spoonful  white  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  four  cups 
of  flour  and  a  scant  cup  of  well-boiled  hominy.  If  the  large  hom- 
iny is  used  it  should  be  chopped.  Add  salt  to  taste,  and  put  in 
a  warm  place  until  half  an  hour  before  time  to  bake  them;  then 
stir  in  one-fourth  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Let 
them  stand  one-half  hour,  then  bake  very  quickly  in  muflln  rings 
or  tins,  or  dropped  by  the  spoonful  on  a  greased  baking-pan. 

Buttered  Apples — Pare  and  core  eight  tart  apples  (what  are 
left  can  be  used  for  the  pudding  at  luncheon).  Put  them  in  a 
baking-dish  and  fill  the  hollow  of  each  with  sugar,  and  a  tiny 
pinch  of  cinnamon  or  mace,  if  liked.  As  they  cook  baste  them 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  in  half  a  cup  of  hot  wa- 
ter. Cover  the  apples.  Boil  a  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of 
water,  and  a  blade  of  mace  five  minutes;  and  when  the  apples 
are  tender — not  broken — pour  this  over  them  after  they  are 
removed  to  the  dish. 

Oyster  Shortcake — Make  a  rich  but  delicate  shortcake  dough, 
using  sweet  milk  and  baking  powder.  Bake  in  jelly  cake  tins,  in 
rather  thin  layers  and  lightly  butter  each  as  it  comes  from  the 
oven.  Drain  one  quart  of  oysters,  putting  the  liquor  on  to  scald. 
Heat  a  cup  and  a  half  of  milk  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Rub  smooth  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and 
add  this  to  the  scalding  milk,  stirring  until  it  thickens.  If  half 
a  cup  of  cream  can  be  had,  add  it  to  the  milk,  it  is  a  great  im- 
provement. Put  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  into  the  oj^ster  juice 
after  it  is  skimmed,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon pepper,  add  the  oysters,  let  them  scald  until  they 
"ruffle,"  which  will  be  very  soon.  Then  take  them  out,  lay  them 
on  a  layer  of  shortcake;  pour  the  juice  into  the  milk,  stir  well, 
put  a  spoonful  of  this  filling  over  the  oysters,  lay  on  another  lay- 
er of  shortcake,  then  add  more  oysters,  pouring  the  hot  filling 
over  the  whole.  The  dish  should  be  very  hot,  and  it  should  not 
stand  a  minute  after  being  prepared  and  served.  If  the  cakes  are 
very  thin  and  crisp,  three  layers  may  be  used  instead  of  two. 

Salad  of  Pigs'  Feet — The  day  before  this  is  needed  thoroughly 
wash  three  pigs'  feet,  and  cook  them  until  tender  in  salted  water. 
When  they  are  tender  remove  from  the  kettle  and  drop  them  into 
vinegar.  In  the  morning  pick  out  and  shred  fine  and  chop  the 
meat,  using  also  the  bits  of  jelly  adhering  to  the  meat.  Add  to 
this  a  large  teacup  of  chopped  celery  or  firm  white  cabbage. 
Cold  boiled  potato  may  be  used  if  preferred.  Pour  over  the  salad 
a  French  dressing.  The  mayonnaise  dressing  is  too  heavy  for 
this  excellent  salad. 

Apple  Pudding — Butter  a  granite  pudding  pan  and  put  in  a 
layer  of  browned   bread  crumbs.    Sprinkle   lightly  with   sugar, 


554  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

mace  and  bits  of  butter.  Then  put  a  layer  of  apple  sauce  if  you 
have  it,  raw  apples  sliced  very  thin  if  you  have  no  sauce.  Al- 
ternate a  layer  of  crumbs  with  a  layer  of  apples,  seasoning  each 
layer  well.  Let  the  last  layer  be  one  of  crumbs.  Pour  over  it 
a  very  little  hot  water,  cover  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  remove  the 
cover.  If  baked  properly  the  crumbs  and  apple  will  melt  into 
a  delicious  jelly.  Serve  hot,  either  with  cream  or  with  any  good 
liquid  sauce. 

Roast  Pork  with  Sage  and  Onion  Stuffing — A  leg  of  pork  may 
be  used  for  this,  or  a  loin.  If  the  loin,  separate  each  joint  with 
the  chopper  and  make  an  incision  in  the  thick  part  of  the  pork. 
Into  the  cavity  made  thus  put  a  dressing  made  of  a  cup  of 
crumbs,  an  onion  chopped  fine,  a  teaspoon  chopped  sage,  a  tea- 
spoon made  mustard,  one-half  saltspoon  pepper,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoon salt,  a  tablespoon  butter,  a  little  cold  mashed  potato,  a 
tablespoon  vinegar.  Bring  the  edges  of  the  meat  together  and 
bind  or  sew  them  so  that  the  dressing  may  not  escape.  If  the 
leg  is  used  the  dressing  is  put  under  the  skin.  Allow  twenty  min- 
utes to  the  pound  and  one  "twenty"  over.  Baste  frequently, 
especially  at  first. 

Canary  Cream — Dissolve  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of 
water.  Strain  and  add  to  it  the  juice  of  three  oranges,  grated 
rind  of  one,  juice  of  one  lemon,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well-beaten 
and  a  cup  of  sugar.  Stir  over  a  gentle  fire  until  it  thickens,  which 
will  be  when  it  just  comes  to  a  boil,  then  pour  into  a  mold. 

Sauce — Beat  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  very  stiff;  take  a 
good-sized  cup  of  strawberry,  raspberry  or  peach  preserve.  Beat 
this  until  the  preserve  is  in  tiny  shreds.  Then  add  the  whites 
and  beat  thoroughly  together.    Pile  around  the  canary  cream. 

Miss  M.  E.  Wright. 

No.  409  Commercial  Avenue,  Cairo,  111. 


MONDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  bananas. 

Wheaten  grits  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Pish  omelet.       Baked  potatoes. 

Steamed  brown  bread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Mutton  rechauffe.  Bread  and  butter. 

Baked  apples.  Cheese  fritters. 

Cocoa. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  555 

DINNER. 

Mock  bisque  soup. 

Ragout  of  corn  and  tenderloins. 

Steamed  potatoes.  Boiled  noodles. 

Cabbage  salad  with  home  dressing. 

King  Vy^'illiam   pudding. 

Coffee. 

Fish  Omelet — Cook  together  one  level  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  one  of  butter;  add  gradually  half-cup  of  hot  milk  and  a  little 
pepper.  Pour  boiling  water  en  a  half-cup  of  shredded  codfish, 
drain  and  mix  with  the  thickened  milk,  then  add  two  cups  of 
cold  boiled  potatoes  chopped  fine.  Melt  tablespoonful  butter  in 
a  spider;  v/hen  hot  turn  in  fish  and  cook  slowly  until  a  thick  crust 
has  formed;  then  fold  over  and  serve  on  hot  platter. 

Mutton  Rechauffe — To  one  cup  of  cold  roast  or  boiled  mutton, 
chopped  fine,  add  a  half-cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs  with  enough 
gravy  or  soup  stock  to  moisten  well,  season  with  saltspoon  of 
salt,  one-half  saltspoon  pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  some  tart 
jelly.  Place  in  frying-pan  over  the  fire  and  when  well  warmed 
thfongh  remove  to  back  of  the  range  and  stir  in  the  well-beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg.  Pour  mixture  in  deep  baking  tin,  cover  an  inch 
deep  with  highly  seasoned  mashed  potato,  brush  over  the  top 
with  the  v/hite  of  an  egg  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Cheese  Fritters — Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese 
with  two  dessertspoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  dry  mustard,  a  dessertspoonful  of  butter,  a  speck  of  cayenne 
and  the  yolk  of  an  egg;  pound  with  a  potato-masher  till  smooth 
and  v/ell  mixed,  make  into  bails  the  size  of  small  walnuts,  flat- 
ten a  little.  Make  a  batter  v/ith  a  cup  of  sifted  flour,  a  table- 
spoonful of  melted  butter,  a  scant  cup  of  warm  water,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  the  v/hite  of  an  egg  v/ell  beaten.  Drop  the  fritters  onto 
this  and  then  from  a  spoon  into  very  hot  fat,  cooking  as  you 
would  croquettes. 

Ragout  of  Pork  Tenderloin  and  Corn — Cut  into  small  pieces 
a  pound  of  fresh  pork  tenderloins;  put  into  a  saucepan  with 
enough  butter  to  prevent  burning  and  brown  over  a  hot  fire, 
y/hen  well  browned  add  a  half  can  of  sweet  corn  and  a  season- 
ing of  three- fourths  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  of 
pepper  and  enough  boiling  water  to  moisten;  stir  over  the  fire 
until  thoroughly  hot  and  serve  at  once. 

King  "William  Pudding — Two  apples  chopped  fine,  two  ounces 
each  of  grated  bread,  sugar  and  currants;  two  eggs  and  the  rind 
of  a  lemon,  grated,  and  just  enough  of  the  juice  to  give  a  per- 
ceptible acid,  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  a  little  mustard.  Stir  all  to- 
gether and  pour  into  a  small,  buttered  bowl.  Cover  with  a 
plate  and  steam  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  serve  with  lemxon  sauce 
made  as  follows:  Boil  together  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  and  half 
cup  of  water  for  fifteen  minutes;  remove  from  fire  and  when 
cooled  a  little  add  the  juice  remaining  from  lemon  used  in  pud- 
ding. Jessica  A.  West. 

No.  906  Walnut  Street,  Chicago. 


556  THE  CHICAGO  RECOBD  COOK  BOOK. 

TUESDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit  compote. 

Breaded  liver.  Steamed  rice. 

Hot  rolls.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Beef  and  carrots. 

Small  pickled  onions.  Bread  and  butter. 

Coffee  cake.  Cocoa. 

DINNER. 

Cream   of  potato  soup. 

Sweetbread    and   iamb   fricassee. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Creamed   celery. 

Pickled  beets.  Cranberry  meringue. 

Toasted  Saratoga  wafers. 

Coffee. 


Fruit  Compote — Peel  and  cbop  fine  three  eating  apples; 
slice  fine  three  bananas;  mix  together.  Boil  to  a  sirup  one  cup 
granulated  or  brown  sugar  with  one-half  cup  milk.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  or  juice  of  one-half  lemon,  according  to  your  taste.  Pour 
over  fruit  and  serve  cold.  Any  combination  of  fruit,  such  as 
oranges  and  bananas,  oranges  and  apples,  etc.,  will  be  found  ex- 
cellent. 

Beef  and  Carrots — Chop  one  pound  of  beef  (not  too  fine). 
Cook  slowly  v/ith  three  sliced  carrots  in  water  enough  to  cover 
until  well  done.  Season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-quar- 
ter teaspoon  pepper,  tablespoon  butter,  one-half  tablespoon  onion 
juice.  Cream  one  tablespoon  fiour  in  one-half  cup  milk  and 
add  just  before  serving. 

Coffee  Cake — One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter;  mix  well; 
add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  raisins  seeded  and 
chopped,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoon  ground  mace  and  one  of  ground  cloves.  Dissolve 
one-quarter  teaspoon  baking  soda  in  one-half  cup  cold  coffee 
and  add;  mix  well  and  lastly  stir  in  lightly  two  cups  finely  sifted 
flour.  This  will  be  found  excellent  and  will  keep  very  long  if 
desired. 

Sweetbread  and  Lamb  Fricassee — Chop  moderately  fine  one 
pound  of  lamb  and  one  good-sized  sweetbread,  season  with  one 
teaspoon  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoon  pepper,  roll  in  flour  and 
fry  a  delicate  brown  in  butter.  Add  one-half  can  tomatoes,  a 
pinch  of  mace,  juice  of  an  onion,  a  pinch  of  sugar  and  some  fine- 
ly minced  parsley.    Stew  slowly  until  thoroughly  tender. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  557 

Cranberry  Meringue — Beat  whites  of  three  eggs  until  very 
stiff;  add  carefully  one  by  one  the  three  yolks  to  this  froth.  Beat 
in  lightly  one-half  cup  sifted  granulated  sugar,  then  juice  of  one- 
half  lemon.  Add  lightly  one-half  cup  flour  in  which  one-half 
teaspoonful  baking  powder  has  been  sifted.  Bake  in  long  pan. 
Turn  out  on  platter  and  spread  liberally  on  top  cranberry  jelly, 
made  as  follows:  One  cup  cranberries,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half 
cup  water;  do  not  stir;  when  jellied,  strain.  Beat  one  whole  egg 
with  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar  until  creamed.  Flavor  with 
a  few  drops  best  vanilla.  Spread  on  top  of  cranberries  and  serve. 
This  will  be  found  a  delightful,  reasonable  and  wholesome  des- 
sert. Mrs.  Rachel  Fletcher. 

No.  3226  Prairie  Avenue,  Chicago. 


WEDNESDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  EIGHTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Northern  spy  apples. 

Bacon  and  eggs.  Creamed  potatoes. 

Corn  pone  with  butter. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Mush  and  milk. 

Kippered  herring.  Celery. 

Brown  bread. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Roast  turkey,  cranberry  sauce. 

Browned  potatoes.  Cold  slaw. 

Prune  whip. 

Coffee. 


Prune  Whip — One  large  cup  of  prunes  and  five  apricots. 
Cook  until  tender,  remove  pits,  return  to  pan,  add  one-half  cup 
sugar  and  cook  to  pulp.  Remove  as  much  skin  as  possible,  and 
when  cool  add  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat  rapidly  for  ten 
minutes.  Serve  with  custard  made  with  the  two  egg  yolks,  one 
pint  of  milk  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  or  whipped  cream. 

Mishawaka,  Ind.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Niles. 


558  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

THURSDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 

Scotch  oatmeal. 

Ham  croquettes.  English  crumpets. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Curry  of  cold  meat,  rice  border. 

Thin  slices  of  Boston  brown  bread  and  butter. 

Thomaston  fritters. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Economical  soup. 

Broiled  salmon  steak,  parsley  sauce. 

"Turkey  the  second  day." 

Baked  potatoes.  Macaroni  a  la  Riccadonna. 

Sweet-pickled  tomatoes. 

Fig  pudding,  hard  sauce. 

French  coffee. 


Curry  of  Cold  Meat,  Rice  Border — Put  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  in  frying  pan,  and  when  hot  add  one  onion,  chopped. 
When  the  onion  is  yellow  stir  in  three  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  and 
one  of  curry  powder;  aldd  soon  one  pint  of  stock  or  water,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  sim- 
mer five  minutes  and  strain  on  the  meat;  simmer  ten  minutes 
longer  and  serve  with  a  border  of  hot  boiled  salted  rice.  Any 
kind  of  cold  meat  can  be  served  this  way.  There  should  be 
about  one  pound  and  a  half,  sliced  as  thinly  as  possible. 

Economical  Soup — Cover  the  frame  and  other  bones  of  a 
roast  turkey  with  four  quarts  of  cold  water  and  allow  to  boil 
slowly  for  several  hours.  An  hour  before  dinner  time  add  three 
leaves  of  celery,  a  small  bay  leaf  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per and  two  teaspoonfuls  salt.  When  ready  to  serve  strain  into 
tureen  in  which  have  been  placed  small  squares  of  crispy  toasted 
stale  bread.    Should  make  soup  for  two  days. 

Salmon  Steaks,  Parsley  Sauce — Sift  cornmeal  lightly  over 
slices  of  fresh  salmon,  broil  over  quick  fire,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  butter,   pour  sauce  around  and  serve. 

Parsley  Sauce — Work  half  a  cupful  of  butter  and  tv»ro  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  to  a  cream,  pour  on  one  pint  of  boiling  water 
and  stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil;  then  remove  at  once  from  fire, 
stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  a  tablespoonful  of 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  559 

chopped  fresh,  parsley,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  serve. 

"Turkey  the  Second  Day" — Cut  up  fine,  put  in  baking  dish 
with  bits  of  butter,  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour 
over  one  cup  of  water  or  stock;  cover  with  a  thick  layer  of 
bread  crumbs,  over  which  pour  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Bake  un- 
til brown  on  top. 

Macaroni  ^  la  Riccadonna — Put  tomatoes  from  a  two-pound 
can  in  a  saucepan  and  let  simmer  until  quite  thick  and  jelly  like 
(which  will  take  three  hours  or  more).  In  the  meantime  take 
half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  and  a  large  onion;  cut  in  small  pieces 
and  fry  to  a  nice  brown,  taking  great  care  not  to  scorch;  pour 
this  into  the  tomatoes  and  let  the  whole  simmer;  cover  half  a 
pound  or  a  little  more  of  macaroni  with  plenty  of  boiling  salted 
water  and  boil  rapidly  for  twenty-five  minutes;  drain,  put  on 
platter  or  dish  and  pour  over  it  the  tomato  sauce,  and  a  generous 
sprinkling  of  grated  cheese  over  the  whole.  Serve.  What  re- 
mains can  be  used  in  a  stew  or  in  soup  the  following  day. 

Fig  Pudding — One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  of  suet 
chopped  very  fine,  one  pound  of  moist  figs  chopped,  three  eggs, 
one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  well,  place  in  buttered 
mold  and  steam  three  hours.  Enough  for  two  days'  dessert. 
Steam  until  heated  through  for  the  second  serving. 

Hard  Sauce — Soften  a  small  cup  of  butter  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  water;  stir  to  a  cream;  add,  a  little  at  a 
time,  two  cups  of  light-brown  (yellow)  sugar;  beat  until  light 
and  creamy;  flavor  with  a  grating  of  nutmeg  during  the  last 
beating.  Pile  upon  a  pretty  glass  dish  and  serve  generously  upon 
each  slice  of  pudding.  Mrs.  S,  W.  Manney. 

Riverside,  111. 


FRIDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  TENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  apples,  cream  and  sugar. 

Tomato   toast. 

Breakfast  puffs. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Soyers'  recipe  for  cooking  eggs. 

Potatoes  a  la  duchesse. 

Plain  bread. 

Sweet  wafers. 

Tea. 


560  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Beef  soup  with  okra. 

Steamed  bluefish. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Diced  turnips. 

Boiled  Indian  pudding,  vinegar  sauce. 

Coffee. 


Beef  Soup  with  Okra — Fry  one  pound  "round"  steak  cut  in 
pieces,  two  tablespoons  butter,  and  one  sliced  onion  until  very 
brown;  add  to  three  quarts  cold  water  in  soup-kettle  and  boil 
slowly  one  hour,  then  add  a  pint  sliced  okra,  and  simmer  three 
hours  or  more,  season  with  a  teaspoonful  salt  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  strain  and  serve. 

Steamed  Bluefish — Place  tail  of  fish  in  its  mouth  and  secure 
it,  lay  on  a  plate,  pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of  vinegar  seasoned 
with  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  let 
stand  an  hour  in  a  cold  place;  pour  off  the  vinegar  and  put  in  a 
steamer  over  boiling  water;  steam  twenty  minutes  or  longer  if 
the  fish  is  very  large;  drain  well  and  serve  on  a  napkin  garnished 
with  curled  parsley.    Serve  drawn  butter  in  a  boat. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding — Warm  a  pint  of  molasses  and  a  pint 
of  milk;  stir  well  together,  beat  four  eggs,  and  stir  gradually  into 
molasses  and  milk;  add  a  pound  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  and 
Indian  meal  sufficient  to  make  a  thick  batter;  add  a  teaspoon 
pulverized  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  a  little  grated  lemon  peel, 
stir  all  together  thoroughly;  dip  cloth  in  boiling  water,  shake, 
flour  a  little,  turn  in  the  mixture,  tie  up,  leaving  room  for  the 
pudding  to  swell,  and  boil  three  hours. 

Vinegar  Sauce — One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  flour  in  a  little  water,  two  tablespoons  vinegar, 
quarter  of  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  pour  over  this 
one  and  a  half  pints  boiling  water,  and  boil  ten  minutes;  just 
before  taking  from  the  stove  add  one  dessertspoon  of  butter. 

Marion,  Iowa.  Mrs.  Chas.  Rogers. 


SATURDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  ELEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Wheatena  and  cream. 

Pork  tenderloins.  Sanded  potato  cakes. 

Apple  gems. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Veal  toast. 

Home-made  rye  bread  and  butter. 

Potato  rusks. 

Boiled  apples. 

Tea. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  561 

DINNER. 

Beef  stew  with  dumplings. 

Scalloped  tomatoes.  Vegetable  oysters. 

Cucumber   pickles. 

Cranberry  shortcake.  Coffee. 


Apple  Gems — Chop  four  sour  apples  very  fine,  stir  into  them 
one  beaten  egg,  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  molasses,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  each  of  cornmeal  and  sifted  flour,  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  dissolve  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  warm  wa- 
ter and  add  it,  using  enough  water  to  thin  batter.  Bake  in  but- 
tered gem  pans  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Potato  Rusks — At  noon,  or  after  luncheon,  take  one  pint 
warm  water,  one  yeast  cake,  one  teaspoonful  salt  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  sponge.  In  the  evening  when  the  sponge  is 
light  add  one  cup  lard  or  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  four  eggs; 
knead  and  let  it  rise  over  night;  roll  to  the  thickness  of  one- 
half  inch,  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  place  in  well-greased 
pans,  so  that  they  will  have  plenty  of  room  to  rise;  when  nice 
and  light,  bake.  This  will  make  about  one  hundred  and  they 
will  keep  good  a  week  or  two. 

Boiled  Apples — Select  nice  tart  apples,  wash  and  put  them 
in  a  stew  kettle,  with  stems  up;  put  on  enough  water  to  half 
cover  the  apples,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  for  each  one; 
cover  them  while  they  cook;  v/hen  they  are  soft  through  take 
them  up  in  a  deep  dish,  boil  the  juice  till  it  is  nearly  like  jelly 
and  pour  it  over  the  apples. 

Beef  Stew  with  Dumplings — Take  two  pounds  of  the  neck  of 
beef,  two  onions,  six  large  potatoes,  two  quarts  of  water,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Cut  the  beef  in  nice  pieces.  Put  about 
half  of  the  fat  in  the  stew  pan  with  the  onions,  and  stir  for  eight 
or  ten  minutes  over  a  hot  fire;  then  put  in  the  meat  and  sprinkle 
with  the  flour  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of 
pepper.  Stir  ten  minutes  and  add  the  water,  boiling.  Simmer 
for  an  hour  and  a  half;  then  add  the  potatoes,  peeled  and  cut 
in  quarters.    Simmer  a  half  hour  longer,  then  add  the  dumplings. 

Dumplings — One  pint  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  all  thoroughly  and 
wet  with  a  small  cup  of  milk;  stir  into  a  smooth  ball.  Sprinkle  a 
little  flour  on  the  board  and  turn  the  dough  onto  it,  roll  to  the 
thickness  of  half  an  inch,  cut  in  small  cakes. 

Vegetable  Oysters — Wash  a  bunch  of  salsify  thoroughly, 
scrape  and  cut  in  rather  thin  slices,  stew  in  water  enough  to  cover 
them  till  tender;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  one  pint  of  milk.  Thicken  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour  and  some  cold  milk.  Have  ready  in  a  dish  some  slices  of 
nicely  toasted  bread.    Pour  the  oysters  over  the  toast  and  serve. 

Cranberry  Shortcake — One  generous  pint  of  flour,  two  small 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful of  melted  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar.    Sift  together  the 


562  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

flour  and  baking  powder.  Beat  the  egg',  add  milk,  butter  and 
sugar  and  mix  all  together  as  quickly  as  possible.  Bake  in  a 
shallow  cake  pan.  Split  while  warm  and  spread  with  butter  and 
cranberry  sauce.  Mrs.  Mary  L.  Cavanagh. 

No.  421  Reynolds  Street,  Iowa  City,  Iowa. 


SUNDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  TWELFTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Foulds'  wheat-germ  meal  mush — cream  and  sugar. 

Eggs  poached  in  milk. 

Fried  apples. 

Waffles.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Scalloped  salmon.  Potato  puffs. 

Whole-wheat  bread  and  butter. 

Baked  apples.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  bisque. 

Roast  tame  duck.  Apple  sauce. 

Sweet  potatoes.    Cabbage  salad. 

Salted  wafers.  Cheese. 

Apple  meringue  pie. 

Nuts.  Coffee. 


Wheat-Germ  Meal  Mush — To  one  quart  boiling  water  add  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  stir  in  slowly  one  cup  of  the  meal.  Boil  slow- 
ly ten  minutes.     Serve  with  sugar  and  butter  or  cream. 

Eggs  Poached  in  Milk — Three  pints  of  milk  in  a  porcelain- 
lined  skillet  heated  to  a  boiling  point.  Break  your  eggs  into  the 
poacher,  set  in  the  skillet  and  cook  slowly  on  the  back  of  the 
range  until  firm.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  The  milk  neu- 
tralizes the  sulphur  of  the.  eggs,  making  them  much  more  whole- 
some to  people  of  bilious  temperament. 

Whole-Wheat  Bread — Five  cups  whole-wheat  flour,  two  cups 
warm  water,  one  cake  compressed  yeast,  two  tablespoonfuls  mo- 
lasses, little  shortening  if  desired.  As  the  flour  is  added  it  should 
be  beaten  well;  stir  with  a  spoon  until  stiff  enough  to  knead; 
work  it  well;  let  rise;  work  down;  make  into  loaves.  When  very 
light  bake  forty  to  forty-five  minutes. 

Roast  Duck  (tame) — Steam  two  hours  in  an  air-tight  cooker. 
Then  rub  over  with  salt  and  onion  juice  and  brown  in  the  oven, 
basting  often  with  the  gravy.    Serve  with  fresh  apple  sauce. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  563 

Sweet  Potatoes — Boil  and  mash  as  you  do  white  potatoes. 
Season  to  taste.  Fill  your  scallop  pan,  sprinkle  with  cracker 
meal  and  sugar,  pour  over  half-pint  of  cream  and  bake  twenty 
minutes. 

Cabbage  Salad — Put  one-half  cup  of  vinegar  and  one  table- 
spoonful  butter  to  heat  in  double  boiler.  Beat  yolk  of  one  egg, 
one  spoonful  flour  and  one  of  sugar  together,  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  sour  cream  and  cook  in  the  vinegar  until  smooth.  Just  be- 
fore it  boils  stir  in  the  well-beaten  white  and  pour  immediately 
over  your  cabbage,  which  has  been  chopped  and  salted. 

Apple  Meringue  Pie — For  the  paste,  one  cup  flour,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  butter,  a  small  pinch  salt;  chop  butter  and  salt  into 
the  flour  with  pastry  cutter.  Use  one-quarter  cup  ice  water  to 
moisten;  do  not  touch  with  the  hands.  Roll  out  and  bake  over 
an  inverted  pie-tin.  For  the  fllling,  one  cup  sour  apple  sauce, 
one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  water.  Let  come  to  a  boil.  Add 
one  tablespoonful  cornstarch  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Fill 
shell  when  cold  and  cover  with  one  cup  of  thick  cream,  whipped 
stiff.  Mrs.  Mary  M.  Pugh. 

No.  2614  Capitol  Avenue,  Omaha,  Neb. 


MONDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  THIRTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  apples  and  cream. 

Boston  baked  beans.         Boston  brown  bread. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Potted  ham.        Sandwich  rolls. 

Pickles.        Crackers. 

Apple  cream.        Small  cupcakes. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Vegetable  soup. 

Scotch  collops  in  demi-glaze. 

Roast  onions.  Macaroni. 

String  beans,  French  waf^. 

Chocolate  tartlets. 

Cheese.  Fruit.  Coffee. 


Sandwich  Rolls — Take  four  cupfuls  of  light  bread  dough. 
Spread  it  out  on  the  breadboard  with  the  knuckles  and  then 
roll  it  thin.  Spread  this  sheet  with  one  cupful  of  butter,  fold  it 
up  and  roll  out  again;    fold  as  before  and  let  it  stand  a  few  min- 


564  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

utes  in  a  warm  place.  Now  roll  and  fold  twice  more.  Let  stand 
a  short  time,  roll  out  and  cut  into  biscuits,  place  in  pans,  not 
touching;  brush  over  the  tops  with  a  little  lard  and  hot  water. 
Let  rise  one  hour  and  bake.  These  are  very  light  and  will  pull 
apart  in  flakes, 

Apple  Cream — Two  cupfuls  grated  apples,  one  small  cupful 
sugar,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  two  tablespoonfuls  water,  one  egg, 
orange  or  lemon  peel  for  flavor.  Either  grate  or  finely  mince  the 
apples  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  v/ith  the  other  ingredients 
and  stir  them  over  the  fire  about  ten  minutes.  Serve  hot  or  cold 
as  you  like. 

Vegetable  Soup — Take  eight  or  ten  cupfuls  of  seasoned  stock, 
in  which  almost  any  kind  of  meat  has  been  boiled — the  richer 
the  better.  Skim  off  most  of  the  fat.  Almost  every  kind  of  vege- 
table can  be  used.  Take  a  piece  of  each  and  cut  into  dice  shapes. 
Boil  the  hard  vegetables,  such  as  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  cel- 
ery, etc.,  together  in  a  pint  of  water  an  hour  in  a  little  saucepan; 
drain  off  the  water,  put  them  into  the  stock  and  add  the  easy 
cooking  kinds,  such  as  cauliflowers,  potatoes  or  whatever  may 
be  at  hand,  and  simmer  one-half  hour.  At  last  add  a  half-cup 
tomato,  small  teaspoonful  salt,  quarter  teaspoonful  pepper  and 
a  tablespoonful  cornstarch  mixed  in  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Cook 
five  minutes  and  serve.  In  the  summer  five  cents  worth  of  vege- 
tables will  be  suflicient. 

Scotch  Collops  in  Demi-Glaze — By  long  stewing  and  with  care 
small  pieces  of  beef,  no  matter  how  tough  or  coarse  the  cut,  may 
become  perfectly  tender  and  covered  with  the  richest  natural 
gravy  without  any  addition  whatever  other  than  plain  seasoning. 
Take  two  pounds  of  the  neck  of  beef  and  cut  into  small  but  thick 
steaks.  Put  them  on  in  cold  water,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half  as  much  pepper  and  boil  with  the  lid  on  for  three  hours. 
As  the  water  boils  away  stir  up  from  the  bottom,  lest  it  stick  and 
burn.  As  soon  as  the  water  is  nearly  all  expelled,  and  before 
the  saucepan  bottom  begins  to  brown,  take  it  off.  Put  the  meat 
on  a  hot  dish.  There  will,  perhaps,  be  a  teacupful  of  essence  of 
meat  in  the  saucepan.  Skim  off  the  fat  if  necessary  and  pour  it 
over  the  meat  for  gravy. 

Roast  Onions — Peel  a  sufficient  number  of  onions  and  steam 
them  until  done,  which  will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then 
bake  them  in  a  pan  with  a  little  drippings,  salt  and  a  sprinkling  of 
sugar  to  make  them  brown  on  top.  Serve  them  in  the  same  dish 
with  the  collops,  placed  around  the  edge. 

Macaroni  with  Butter — Boil  as  much  macaroni  as  you  wish, 
salted  to  taste,  in  plenty  of  water,  about  fifteen  minutes.  Some 
kinds  of  macaroni  take  longer.  Drain  off  the  water  and  place  it 
on  a  hot  dish.  Take  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  melt  and  pour 
it  over  the  macaroni  with  a  little  grated  Swiss,  or  any  cheese,  a 
little  more  salt,  a  large  pinch  of  pepper  and  serve  very  hot. 

String  Beans,  French  Way — Drain  away  the  water  from  a 
can  of  string  beans,  put  them  in  a  small  saucepan  and  shake 
over  the  fire  without  water  until  they  are  quite  hot.    Put  in  a 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  565 

piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  half 
saitspoonful  of  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  a  spoonful 
of  vinegar.  When  butter  is  melted  and  has  become  hot  they  are 
all  ready  to  serve. 

Chocolate  Tartlets — Four  eggs,  one-half  cake  grated  choco- 
late, one  tablespoonful  cornstarch  dissolved  in  milk,  three 
tablespoonfuls  milk,  four  of  sugar,  half  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavor- 
ing, one-half  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  small  pinch  salt,  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  butter.  Rub  the  chocolate  smooth  in  the  milk,  heat 
over  the  fire  and  add  the  cornstarch  wet  in  milk.  Stir  until 
thickened,  then  pour  out.  When  cold  beat  in  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  sugar  and  flavoring.  Bake  in  open  shells,  lining  patty  pans; 
cover  with  meringue;    eat  cold.  Harriet  Mann. 

No.  1421  Central  Street,  Evanston. 


TUESDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  FOURTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Halved  oranges. 

Farina. 

Frizzled  dried  beef.        Baked  potatoes. 

Hot  biscuit.        Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Minced  veal.        Buttered  toast. 

Graham  bread.        Sweet  watermelon  pickle. 

Quince  preserve.        Plantation  jumbles. 

Cocoa. 


DINNER. 

Corn  soup. 

Broiled  venison  steak.        Currant  jelly. 

Plain  boiled  potatoes.        Succotash. 

Olives.  Gherkins. 

Cream  of  rice  pudding.        Drip  coffee. 


Plantation  Jumbles — One  pound  of  flour  rubbed  with  a  quar- 
ter pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar  beaten  with  four  eggs, 
flavor  with  rose  water  and  nutmeg.  Cut  out  with  doughnut  cut- 
ter, sift  sugar  over  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Broiled  Venison  Steak — Broil  quickly  over  a  clear  fire;  place 
upon  very  hot  platter,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
pour  over  two  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly  melted  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter. 

Cream  of  Rice  Pudding — Wash  half  a  cupful  of  rice  through 
several  waters,  put  with  two  quarts  of  milk,  a  small  cup  of  light- 
brown  sugar,  one-quarter  saitspoonful  of  salt  and  a  scant  tea- 


566  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

spoonful  of  vanilla  flavoring;  bake  very  slowly  for  two  or  three 
hours,  stirring  two  or  three  times  the  first  hour  of  baking.  If 
properly  done  this  is  a  delicious  pudding.  The  baking  must  be 
slow.  Mrs.  J.  G.  Mole. 

Batavia,  111. 


WEDNESDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  FIFTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Steamed  figs. 

Codfish  balls.        Creamed  potatoes. 

Velvet  muflans. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Poached  eggs. 

Thin  bread  and  butter.  Gingerbread. 

Baked  apples.        Buttermilk. 


DINNER. 

Macaroni  soup. 

Chicken  pie.        Steamed  sweet  potatoes. 

Succotash.        Chocolate  Souffle. 

Coffee. 


Velvet  Muffins — Set  to  rise  the  evening  before  wanted  one 
quart  sifted  flour,  one  level  teaspoonful  salt;  rub  into  flour  four 
rounding  tablespoonfuls  butter,  add  equal  quantities  of  boiled 
milk  and  water,  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Stir  in  one  cake 
of  yeast  foam  previously  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water.  In  the 
morning  add  three  well-beaten  eggs,  and  half  fill  each  muffin 
ring,  which  has  been  well  greased  and  placed  in  baking  pan;  let 
rise  and  bake  about  fifteen  minutes  in  brisk  oven. 

Buttermilk  is  said  to  be  a  wholesome  drink  for  luncheon, 
especially  good  for  corpulent  people  and  dyspeptics.  If  put  into 
clean  bottles  and  canned  or  sealed  will  keep  for  a  long  time. 

Chocolate  Soufl^le — Soak  the  crumb  of  a  French  roll,  or  its 
equivalent  of  any  stale  cake,  in  cold  milk;  squeeze  it  out  and 
beat  up  until  quite  light;  then  beat  in  two  rounded  tablespoon- 
fuls butter,  one-half  cup  sugar  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four 
eggs;  when  well  mixed  add  three  squares  of  grated  chocolate 
and  the  well-whisked  whites  of  the  eggs.  Beat  until  light,  pour 
into  a  buttered  tin  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven.  Do  not  open  the 
oven  for  at  least  ten  minutes.    Serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Lavinia  Bruce  Franklin. 

No.  687  Fisk  Street,  Appleton,  Wis. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  567 

THURSDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  SIXTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  oranges  and  apples. 

Minced  veal  on  toast. 

Eggs  a  rOudinot. 

Hot  breakfast  rolls.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Hominy  croquettes.        Bread  and  butter. 

Fig  sandwiches. 

Ginger  drop  cakes.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  spinach  soup. 

Timbales  of  chicken. 

Flaked  potatoes.        Mushroom  sauce. 

Stuffed  peppers,  a  la  Champlain. 

Thanksgiving  plum   pudding.        Coffee. 


Sliced  Oranges  and  Apples — Slice  three  of  each  alternately  in- 
to a  glass  dish  the  night  before  serving;  pour  over  them  the  juice 
of  one  orange,  one  lemon  and  a  half-cup  of  sugar. 

Minced  Veal  on  Toast — Place  over  the  fire  in  an  enameled 
kettle  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  fresh  minced  veal;  cook  five 
minutes  with  a  small  amount  of  hot  water;  add  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  lastly  one  cup  of 
sweet  cream.  Toast  six  pieces  of  bread  delicately,  cut  away  the 
crusts  and  place  on  a  platter;  pour  the  minced  veal  over  and  send 
to  the  table  hot. 

Eggs  a  rOudinot — Four  eggs,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  break- 
fast bacon,  one  small  tomato  (or  the  pulp  of  two  canned  ones), 
one  peach  (fresh  or  canned),  four  or  five  mushrooms  (fresh  or 
canned),  one  saltspoon  of  salt,  one  of  white  pepper  and  two 
ounces  of  butter.  Chop  the  bacon,  tomato,  peach  and  mushrooms 
Into  dice.  Put  all  together  into  a  frying-pan  and  cook  until  the 
bacon  is  tender.  Have  the  eggs  beaten  to  make  the  omelet,  and 
season  with  the  pepper  and  a  dash  of  the  salt.  Rub  the  saucepan 
with  beef  suet,  put  in  the  butter,  then  the  eggs  and  cook  as  usual. 
¥/hen  the  omelet  is  ready  to  turn  spread  the  bacon  and  condi- 
ments over  it  quickly.  Place  upon  a  hot  dish  and  send  to  table 
garnished  with  parsley  sprigs. 

Fig  Sandwiches — Slice  thin  and  evenly  white  bread,  spread 
with  butter,  cut  av/ay  the  crusts;  mince  fine  six  figs  and  twelve 
good  fresh  raisins.    Spread  between  the  slices. 

Cream  of  Spinach  Soup — Pick  over  and  wash  one  pound  of 
spinach,  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  water  and  cook  until 


5G8  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK 

thoroughly  done.  When  tender  press  through  a  fine  sieve.  Mix 
one  ounce  of  butter  and  one  ounce  of  ilour  in  a  saucepan,  add 
the  spinach,  cream,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  salt  and  one-quarter 
saltspoonful  of  pepper;  add  one  quart  of  well-flavored  soup 
stock.  Let  the  soup  come  nearly  to  a  boil,  then  remove  from 
the  fire  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  up  with  a 
little  lemon  juice;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  with 
croutons. 

Stuffed  Peppers  a  la  Champlain — Take  five  green  peppers, 
wash  them,  then  put  them  into  hot  grease  and  blanch  until  ten- 
der. Remove  from  the  fire  and  wipe  the  skin  with  a  cloth.  Cut 
off  the  tops  and  take  out  the  seeds.  Take  an  ounce  of  butter,  chop 
a  third  of  a  cup  of  shallots  and  fry  in  the  butter,  adding  a  half- 
can  of  chopped  mushrooms.  Season  with  tomato  sauce  thick- 
ened with  bread  crumbs.  Put  this  filling  into  the  peppers,  cover 
with  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  and  bake  ten  minutes.  Place  on 
the  serving  platter  and  send  to  table  with  Bechamel  sauce  poured 
over  them. 

Thanksgiving  Plum  Pudding— Six  butter  crackers  rolled  fine 
and  soaked  in  three  pints  of  milk.  Cream,  one-quarter  of  a  cup 
of  butter  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  add  a  half-teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spice  and  six  well-beaten  eggs.  Stir 
it  all  well  into  the  milk  and  add  one  pound  of  the  best  raisins. 
Bake  in  a  deep  pudding  dish  well  greased  with  cold  butter.  Bake 
very  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven  three  hours.  Stir  several  times 
during  the  first  hour  to  keep  the  raisins  from  settling.    Good. 

Holyoke,  Col.  Mrs.  Jessie  McClellan. 


FRIDAY,   DECEMBER  THE   SEVENTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 

Graham  or  brown  bread  brewis. 

Sausage  rolls.  Light  loaf. 

Lyonnaise  potatoes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Lamb  cutlets.        Cream  cheese. 

Arrow-root  biscuit. 

World's  Fair  gingerbread.        Tomato  marmalade. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Scalloped  oysters.        Mashed  potatoes. 

Roasted  onions. 

Baked  apple  pudding.    Coffee. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  569 

Graham  or  Brown  Bread  Brewis— Heat  three  cups  of  milk  in 
a  double  boiler;  season  with  one  tablespoonful  of  fresh,  sweet 
butter  and  one  teaspoonful  salt.  Stir  into  the  milk  when  near 
to  boiling  enough  Graham  bread  crumbs  to  make  a  porridge  as 
thick  as  ordinary  oatmeal.  Cook  ten  minutes.  Serve  with 
whipped  butter  and  brown  sugar,  or  with  cream  and  sugar.  Brown 
bread  crumbs  may  also  be  used. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes — Chop  six  large  raw  potatoes  very  fine; 
cut  an  onion  into  a  frying-pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  good  but- 
ter, or,  better  still,  bacon  drippings.  When  brown  add  the  potatoes 
seasoned  with  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  six  free  dashes  of  pepper; 
stir  often  and  fry  until  all  are  well  browned.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  take  the  potatoes  from  the  fire  steaming  hot,  quick- 
ly stir  into  them  the  beaten  yolks,  turn  them  out  on  to  a  plat- 
ter, bank  them  up  into  a  mound,  strew  with  chopped  parsley 
and  serve  hot.     These  are  delicious. 

World's  Pair  Gingerbrc^ad — Here  is  highly  spiced  ginger- 
bread that  will  keep  for  a  long  time  and  makes  a  fine  cake  for 
travelers'  lunch.  Thoroughly  sift  two  quarts  of  flour  and  one 
even  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  together  into  a  pan.  Rub  into  it 
one  cupful  of  butter  and  one  pound  of  good  brown  sugar;  add 
to  the  mixture  one  pint  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  of  the  purest 
quality,  six  well-beaten  eggs,  one  after-dinner  coffee  cupful  of 
ground  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt.  This  makes  a  soft  dough,  too  soft  to  roll.  Lift  it  on 
to  your  board  with  a  knife  and  spread  it  to  an  equal  thickness  with 
it.  Cut  into  small  cakes,  lay  them  far  apart  in  buttered  pans  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Arrow-Root  Biscuit — Put  into  a  mixing  pan  two  coffee  cupfuls 
of  arrow-root  and  one  of  wheat  flour.  Rub  one  small  teacupful 
of  butter  into  the  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  in  grad- 
ually a  very  little  rich  milk,  just  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough, 
flavor  it  with  the  grated  yellow  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a 
few  gratings  of  nutmeg.  Roll  thin  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter; 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  and  brush  each  biscuit  over  with  the  beaten 
white  of  one  egg  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar 
whipped  together. 

Roasted  Onions — Select  large  onions  of  a  uniform  size;  do 
not  remove  the  outer  peeling,  but  roast  them  slowly  in  a  bake- 
pan  with  their  "jackets"  on.  When  tender  peel  them  and  lay 
them  in  a  covered  dish,  steaming  hot;  heat  a  large  tablespoonful 
of  good  butter  in  a  pan,  rub  into  it  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and 
turn  in  one-half  cup  of  cream.  Heat  it  hot,  but  do  not  scorch  the 
butter  or  let  it  boil.  Add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  of  pepper.    Turn  this  sauce  over  the  onions  and  serve. 

LaRissa  P.  Richardson. 

No.  1312  Lill  Avenue,  Chicago. 


570  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

SATURDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  EIGHTEENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Pettijolin  with  cream. 

Foamed  apples.        Spoon  rolls. 

Diced     liver. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Chocolate. 

Baked  hash.        Egg  toast. 

Lettuce  or  cress. 

Fruit. 


DINNER. 

Split-pea  soup. 

Beefsteak    rolls. 

Mashed  sweet  potatoes — browned.        Sliced  bread. 

Apple  dumpling. 

Foamed  Apples — Six  large  apples,  washed,  cored  and  cut  in 
thin  slices.  Have  the  skillet  very  hot  and  put  in  the  apples  and 
place  skillet  on  the  back  of  stove  and  cover.  Keep  apples  stirred 
so  they  do  not  stick,  until  they  are  tender  and  foam  up;  then  add 
sugar  to  taste.  Stir  well  and  let  brown  slightly.  You  have  a 
delicate  dish  and  no  grease. 

Diced  Liver — Beef  liver,  one  pound,  cut  into  small  squares. 
Have  skillet  hot  and  melt  therein  two  dessert  spoons  butter;  put 
in  liver  and  let  it  cook  to  a  light  brown;  one  coffee  cup  milk,  let 
come  to  a  boil;  one  full  teaspoon  cornstarch  dissolved  to  a 
smooth  paste  in  a  little  cold  milk.  When  milk  boils  stir  in  corn- 
starch and  half-teaspoon  salt,  dash  of  red  pepper,  parsley  cut 
very  fine;  stir  all  well;  then  add  the  liver  and  a  teaspoon  to- 
mato catchup  if  liked. 

Spoon  Rolls — Three  pints  sifted  flour,  one  egg  well  beaten, 
kitchen  spoon  of  lard  or  butter,  two  tablespoons  white  sugar 
(granulated),  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  of  a  compressed 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  teacup  tepid  water,  one  pint  mild  scald- 
ed and  cooled.  Beat  all  together  into  a  smooth  batter;  put  in 
bowl  to  raise  and  cover;  set  at  bedtime  in  a  moderately  warm 
place.  In  the  morning  have  muffin  pans  greased,  and  without 
stirring  down  take  batter  out  lightly  in  a  spoon  and  half  fill  each 
little  compartment.  Let  rise  about  an  hour  and  bake  in  a  good 
oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

Baked  Hash — One  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  shoulder  or  neck 
of  lamb,  lean;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender. 
Then  take  out  bones  and  gristle  and  chop  very  fine;  add  three 
boiled   and   creamed   potatoes,   tablespoon   butter,   one-half   tea- 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  571 

spoon  of  salt,  pepper,  a  tablespoon  parsley  very  fine,  a  minute 
Quantity  of  onion  if  preferred;  mix  all  together,  put  in  baking 
dish;  pour  over  a  tablespoon  milk,  add  grated  bread  crumbs  and 
a  little  butter  to  brown.  Baked  twenty  minutes.  Serve  in  same 
dish,  with  napkin  folded  around  outside. 

A  French  dressing  of  tablespoon  of  olive  oil,  teaspoon  vine- 
gar and  a  little  salt  is  all  that  is  needed  for  salad  at  luncheon. 

Split-Pea  Soup — Two  coffee  cups  English  split  peas.  Soak 
over  night  in  one  quart  of  water.  Have  a  knuckle  of  veal  or 
beef  soup  bone  and  one  quart  of  water;  one-half  teaspoon  of 
salt;  add  the  soaked  peas  and  cook  slowly  six  or  seven  hours 
until  thick  as  a  rich  cream.  Mash  and  strain  into  hot  soup  tureen. 
A  little  mace  or  pepper  can  be  added  if  desired. 

Beefsteak  Rolls — Two  pounds  round  of  beef  cut  one-half  inch 
thick,  then  into  rather  small  pieces  so  when  tied  together  they 
will  be  size  of  a  French  roll.  Cut  one  inch  bread  for  each  piece, 
butter  both  sides,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper  and  one  clove  in 
each  (if  to  taste).  Roll  and  tie  each  piece  of  meat  around  the 
bread.  Put  in  skillet,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  lid.  Let 
simmer  until  tender — three  or  four  hours.  Thicken  gravy  and 
add  any  seasoning  desired — catchup,  parsley,  soupgon  of  onion 
and  a  sweet  potato  minced  very  fine  add  flavor  also.  Take  off 
strings  and  serve  in  hot  dish  with  gravy  over  the  rolls. 

Apple  Dumpling,  Boiled — Cut  into  small  pieces  one-quarter 
peck  apples,  after  paring;  one  pint  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
pinch  salt,  one  pint  fiour,  lightly  measured;  beat  milk,  eggs,  flour 
together,  then  add  two  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder,  sifted,  beat  all 
well,  then  add  last  the  apples,  after  flouring  them  lightly  with 
sifted  flour.  Have  ready  a  pudding  bag  or  tin  with  tight  cover; 
put  in  pudding  and  tie  on  cover,  leaving  a  little  space  for  flour 
to  swell.  Have  a  large  pot  of  water  boiling  as  hard  as  it  can, 
and  after  putting  pudding  in  keep  it  boiling  hard  for  one  hour 
and  a  quarter.  Serve  with  creamed  butter  and  sugar,  a  little  nut- 
meg, or  cream  and  sugar.  It  is  very  light,  delicate  and  delicious 
when  properly  made.  Mrs.  Thomas  Turtle. 

No.  2815  Q  Street,  Washington,  D.  C. 


SUNDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  NINETEENTH. 

BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  nectarines. 
Broiled  mutton  kidneys.  Bread  griddle  cakes. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Sardines  on  lettuce.  Crisped  crackers. 

Fruit  cake.  Preserved  ginger. 

Russian  tea. 


572  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Fish  au  gratin. 

Boiled  turkey,  celery  sauce.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Macaroni  a  I'ltalienne.      Nesselrode  pudding. 

French  coffee. 


Boiled  Turkey — Clean  and  truss  a  ten-pound  turkey  as  for 
roasting,  rub  into  it  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  put  into  boiling 
water  to  cover.  Simmer  gently  three  hours  if  young.  Serve  with 
celery  sauce,  some  poured  over  the  turkey  and  the  rest  in  a  gravy 
boat. 

Macaroni  a  I'ltalienne — Break  and  wash  half  a  pound  of  maca- 
roni, throw  into  three  quarts  of  salted  boiling  water  and  boil 
rapidly  for  twenty  minutes.  Put  one  pint  of  milk  in  a  double 
boiler,  rub  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  two  of  flour.  Stir 
this  into  the  boiling  milk,  add  half-teaspoonful  of  salt,  saltspoon- 
ful  white  pepper  and  dash  of  red  pepper,  and  half  a  pound  of 
grated  cheese;  one  tablespoonful  of  dried  mustard  may  be  added 
if  desired.  Drain  and  dish  the  macaroni,  pour  the  sauce  over  it 
and  serve  immediately. 

Nesselrode  Pudding — Boil  a  pint  and  a  half  of  shelled  chest- 
nuts half  an  hour,  rub  off  the  black  skins  and  pound  to  a  paste; 
blanch  one  pint  of  shelled  almonds  and  pound  in  same  manner;  boil 
one  pint  of  water  and  one  pint  of  sugar  and  the  juice  from  a  pint 
can  of  pineapple  for  twenty  minutes;  beat  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs 
and  stir  them  into  this  sirup.  Put  the  saucepan  in  another  of 
boiling  water  and  beat  the  mixture  with  an  egg  beater  until  it 
thickens;  then  put  in  a  basin  of  cold  water  and  beat  for  ten 
minutes.  Mix  the  almonds  and  chestnuts  with  a  pint  of  cream; 
add  half  a  pound  of  candied  fruit  and  the  pineapple  cut  fine.  Mix 
this  with  the  cooked  mixture,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla  ex- 
tract, a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  freeze  same  as  ice  cream. 
Half  this  recipe  is  ample.  Mrs.  F.  F.  Ryther. 

No.  664  Wright  Street,  Chicago. 


MONDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  TWENTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 
Cracked  wheat  and  cream. 
Vienna  potatoes.  Broiled  pork  tenderloins. 

Buckwheat  cakes,  maple  sirup.        Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Deviled  crabs.  Sweet  potato  croquettes. 

Cheese  sandwiches.  Caramel  cake. 

Tea. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  573 

DINNER. 

Corn  soup. 

Cold  turkey,  cranberry  jelly.  Browned  potatoes. 

Piedmont  turnips.      Celery.      Prune  whip. 

Coffee. 


Vienna  Potatoes — Peel  cold  baked  potatoes,  carefully  removing 
every  particle  of  the  brown  color;  cut  into  dice.  Heat  one  cup  of 
thin  cream  in  a  saucepan.  Mix  until  smooth — one  small  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  the  same  of  butter;  add  this  to  the  hot 
cream,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Add  the 
potatoes,  carefully  stirring  until  all  are  covered  with  the  cream. 
Let  stand  a  moment  on  the  stove  till  thoroughly  heated  through, 
then  serve  at  once. 

Deviled  Crabs — One  can  of  crabs,  the  same  quantity  of  fine 
bread  crumbs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Pack  the  mixture  into  shells,  sift  with  powdered  cracker. 
Pour  over  each  shell  a  tablespoonful  of  cream.  Place  the  shells  in 
a  flat  tin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Caramel  Cake — Two  cups  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  level  teaspoons  of  baking- 
powder,  whites  of  four  eggs.    Bake  in  three  layers. 

Caramel  Filling — One  cup  of  cream,  tv/o  cups  of  yellow  "C" 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  cook  about  forty  minutes  or  until 
thick  and  brown.  Remove  from  fire,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  stir 
until  cool  and  of  the  right  consistency  to  sipread  between  the 
layers. 

Piedmont  Turnips — Boil  turnips  till  nearly  done,  then  cut  in 
thin  slices.  Butter  a  pie  dish  and  put  in  the  slices;  moisten  v/ith 
a  very  little  milk,  or  weak  soup  stock;  dust  them  lightly  with 
fine  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt,  and  bake  in  oven  till  a  light 
golden  brown.    Serve  on  a  hot  platter.  Mrs.  W.  J.  Meader. 

No.  200  Division  Street,  Elkhart,  Ind. 


TUESDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  TWENTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFAST. 

Delaware  grapes. 

Boiled  oats,  sugar  and  cream. 

Eggs  in  bread  sauce.  Beaten  biscuits. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Deviled  toast.  Hot  Kentucky  rolls. 

Cup  cake.  Hot  tea. 


574  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Peanut  soup. 

Vienna  steaks.  Celery.  Baked  potatoes. 

Macaroni.  Peach  shortcake. 

Black  coffee. 


Eggs  in  Bread  Sauce — Slice  one  good  sized  onion  (Spanish), 
pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  let  stand  five  minutes,  then  drain 
and  cover  onion  with  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  add  two  cloves  and  a 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  simmer  one  half  hour.  Rub 
through  a  sieve,  pressing  through  as  much  onion  as  possible.  Put 
one  iheaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  in  a  sauce 
pan,  and  when  melted  and  mixed  add  the  milk  and  onion  and  stir 
until  smooth;  add  one-half  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  a  quarter 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper  and  a  dash  of 
mace.  Turn  into  a  baking  dish,  slip  in  carefully  five  eggs  and  put 
in  a  very  hot  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set. 

Deviled  Toast — Use  brov/n  bread  which  is  at  least  one  day  old*; 
cut  in  thin  slices  and  toast  slowly  until  a  nice  brown.  Spread 
with  butter  to  each  tablespoonful  of  which  has  been  added  one- 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  one-quarter  teaspoonful 
paprika  and  ten  drops  of  onion  juice.  Dust  with  grated  cheese  and 
set  in  hot  oven  for  three  minutes. 

Hot  Kentucky  Rolls — One  cup  oat  flakes  scalded  with  one-half 
cup  boiling  milk;  add  to  these  when  cold,  one-third  cup  of  mo'las- 
ses,  one  level  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  beat  for  five  minutes. 
Thicken  with  flour,  as  for  ordinary  bread,  leaving  dough  rather 
soft.  Let  rise  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  mold  into  small 
rolls,  let  rise  until  quite  light,  glaze  with  white  of  an  egg  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven.  These  are  excellent,  and  repay  the  trouble  in 
preparing  them. 

Peanut  Soup — If  you  want  to  try  a  new  soup  that  has  a  fine 
flavor  and  a  great  deal  of  nutriment,  shell  a  pint  of  peanuts,  re- 
move the  red,  paper-like  covering  (first  roasting  them  in  their 
-shells).  Grind  the  nuts  to  a  fine  powder  by  rolling  them.  Use  the 
powdered  nuts  in  a  cream  soup,  made  from  a  pint  of  milk  and  a 
pint  of  water,  a  small  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  large  one  of  but- 
ter rubbed  together,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  saltspoon  of  white 
pepper.  The  soup  may  also  be  made  without  milk,  using  a  quart 
of  water,  and  serving  with  thin  slices  of  lemon  in  each  soup  dish. 

Peach  Shortcake — Make  a  rich  pastry.  Roll  thin  and  bake  in 
three  crusts  in  pie  pans.  Let  them  get  thoroughly  cold.  If  one 
cannot  get  fresh  peaches,  use  canned  fruit;  mash  well,  spread 
between  the  crusts.  Put  in  a  cold  place.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.     This  is  delicious  and  quite  inexpensive. 

Bowling  Green,  Ky.  Mrs.  Lucien  David  Potter. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  575 

WEDNESDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  TWENTY-SECOND. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  fruit. 

Rice  Muffins.  Soft  boiled  eggs. 

Thin  bread  and  butter.         Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Gateau  of  cold  meat. 

Baked  potatoes  (in  their  jackets).        Molded  prunes. 

Cocoanut  buns.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Dried  green-pea  soup. 
Ragout  of  rabbit.     Sweet  pickles.      Potatoes  a  la  creme. 
Parsnips.  Amber   pudding. 

Coffee. 


Gateau  of  Cold  Meat — One-half  pound  of  meat,  two  ounces  of 
bread  crumbs,  one  small  onion,  one  tablespoonful  of  fat,  one-half 
gill  of  gravy,  one  teaspoonful  of  parsley,  two  yolks  and  one  white 
of  eggs;  grease  a  cake  tin  and  well  cover  it  with  bread  crumbs; 
mince  the  onion  and  fry  it  in  the  fat;  mince  the  meat  and  parsley 
fine;  put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  basin  and  mix  well;  add  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt  (scant),  just  a  dash  of  pepper;  add  the 
gravy  and  eggs,  beaten;  put  it  into  the  cake  tin.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Molded  Prunes — One  pound  of  prunes,  three  ounces  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  one  ounce  of  gelatine,  the  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon, 
one  pint  of  water,  six  drops-  cochineal;  boil  the  prunes  in  the  water 
and  sugar  until  quite  soft,  then  take  out  the  stones,  crack  the 
kernels  and  add  them  with  the  lemon  juice  and  rind,  six  drops  of 
cochineal  and  the  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  water;  stir  all  until 
thoroughly  mixed;  pour  into  a  mold,  set  in  a  cool  place  till  ready 
to  serve,  when  turn  it  out  on  to  a  pretty  glass  dish. 

Cocoanut  Buns — Three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  flour,  one-fourth 
pound  of  cocoanut,  one-fourth  pound  of  white  sugar,  three  ounces 
of  butter,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one  egg,  one  gill  of 
milk  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar  well  together,  add  the  milk  and  egg  by  degrees,  also  the  flour, 
baking  'pow'der  and*  cocoanut;  mix  well,  shape  into  buns  and  bake 
twenty  minutes.    This  quantity  will  make  twenty-four  buns. 

Dried  Green-Pea  Soup — One  pint  of  dried  peas,  two  onions,  one 
turnip,  one  carrot,  some  outside  leaves  of  celery,  one  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of  pepper;  soak  the  peas  for  twelve  hours, 
put  them  on  to  boil  in  two  quarts  of  cold  rain  water;  wash  and 
cut  up  the  vegetables,  and  when  the  water  boils  add  them  to  the 
peas,  also  the  salt  and  pep^r,  and  let  all  boil  slowly  for  three 


576  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

hours;  stir  often;  after  that  time  pour  through  a  sieve,  rub  all 
through  that  is  ipossible,  put  hack  into  saucepan  to  get  quite  hot; 
serve  with  crisp  toast  cut  into  dice. 

Ragout  of  Rabbit — One  rabbit,  one-half  pound  of  bacon,  one 
carrot,  one  onion,  one  ounce  of  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  pep- 
per; wash  and  clean  the  rabbit,  cut  it  into  joints  and  dry  the 
pieces  in  a  cloth,  cut  the  bacon  in  slices  and  fry  in  a  stewpan; 
when  the  bacon  is  done  fry  the  rabbit  brown,  brown  the  flour  in 
the  fat,  then  stir  in  one  quart  of  water,  add  the  carrot  and  onion 
cut  in  quarters,  add  the  pepper,  and  if  the  bacon  does  not  make  it 
salty  enough  to  suit  your  taste  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt, 
boil  gently  one  hour  and  a  half;  serve  the  rabbit  with  the  bacon 
round  and  the  gravy  poured  over  it. 

Potatoes  a  la  Creme — Slice  the  potatoes  as  for  frying  and  soak 
in  cold  water  half  an  hour;  parboil  in  a  frying-pan,  pour  the  water 
off  and  let  them  stand  on  the  fire  uncovered  till  the  steam  is  driven 
off;  brown  one  spoonful  of  butter  and  pour  over  them,  then  cover 
the  potatoes  with  milk  in  which  they  should  boil  till  done;  add  half 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  (scant)  of  pepper;  watch  lest 
they  burn;  there  should  be  just  milk  enough  when  done  for  a 
creamy  gravy,  thickened  by  the  starch  of  the  potatoes. 

Amber  Pudding — Six  large  apples,  three  ounces  of  moist  sugar, 
one  lemon,  two  ounces  of  butter,  three  eggs,  puff  paste,  a  few  pre- 
served cherries;  peel,  core  and  slice  the  apples;  place  them  in  a 
stew)pan  with  the  butter,  sugar  and  lemon  rind  and  let  them  stew 
slowly  until  tender;  then  rub  them  through  a  fine  sieve;  line  the 
edges  of  a  pie  dish  with  puff  paste  and  decorate  it  tastefully;  add 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  the  apples  and  pour  the  mixture  into  the 
pie  dish;  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes;  whip 
the  whites  very  stiff  and  spread  them  over  the  apple;  dredge  over 
a  little  white  sugar,  garnish  with  a  few  preserved  cherries,  then 
place  the  pudding  in  a  cool  oven  to  set  the  white  of  egg;  it  will 
take  about  ten  minutes  and  should  get  a  very  light  brown. 

Anderson,  Ind.  Mrs.  H.  Ross  Edwards. 


THURSDAY,  DECEMBER  THE   TWENTY-THIRD. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 

Broiled  beefsteak.  Potato  croquettes. 

Sally  Lunn.  Vienna  coffee. 

J^UNCHEON. 

Frizzled  oysters.  Bread  and  butter. 

Lettuce  sandwiches. 

Tea. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  577 


DINNER. 

Puree  of  peas. 

Baked  ham,  cider  sauce.  Boiled  potatoes. 

Spinach,  French  style.      Mock  pineapple  salad. 

Coffee. 


Frizzled  Oysters — Place  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire,  into  it  put 
four  tablespoons  of  butter.  To  one  pint  of  oysters,  use  three  well 
beaten  eggs,  and  one  cupful  of  cracker  crumbs.  Mix  the  eggs  and 
crackers  together  gently,  and  turn  them  into  the  frying  pan,  then 
turn  in  the  oysters,  liquor  and  all.  Add  B  small  saitspoon  of  salt, 
a  third  of  a  saitspoon  of  pepper.  Shake  the  pan  over  the  fire 
thoroughly,  and  turn  the  contents  over;  allow  to  cook  until  the 
eggs  are  well  done,  about  seven  minutes.  Serve  in  oyster  plates 
garnished  with  young  celery  stalks  and  leaves. 

Baked  Ham — Procure  a  very  small  ham.  If  salty  soak  over 
night  in  cold  water,  scrape  and  boil  gently  until  tender.  Then 
skin  it,  and  remove  extra  fat.  Cut  the  ham  through — with  a  sharp 
knife — to  the  bone  (on  the  underside  of  ham).  Remove  the  bone; 
make  a  dressing;  one  cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoon  of 
butter,  one  saitspoon  of  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  pounded  sage. 
Moisten  with  water  and  fill  the  ham  where  bone  was  taken  out. 
Take  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  add  to  them  water  enough 
to  moisten — use  the  liquor  ham  v/as  boiled  in  for  this — and  spread 
over  the  ham.  Grate  bread  crumbs  over  all.  Sprinkle  on  a  little 
pounded  mace,  and  stick  six  cloves  into  the  ham,  promiscuously. 
Put  in  the  oven  in  a  covered  roaster  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Re- 
move cover,  sprinkle  with  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  brown. 
Then  slice,  evenly,  from  the  end  to  be  served,  the  first  cut.  Slip 
on  to  a  serving  platter,  garnish  with  rings  of  the  hard  boiled 
whites  of  eggs,  hang  a  twig  of  parsley  or  watercress  over  the  end 
of  ham,  where  it  is  to  be  sliced,  and  serve. 

'Cider  Sauce  for  Ham — Mince  the  slice  of  ham,  toss  into  the 
roasting  pan  ham  was  bake'd  in,  set  over  the  stove  and  fry  brown, 
into  this  stir  a  little  more  than  one  tablespoon  of  browned  flour 
and  brown  together,  being  careful  not  to  scorch  it.  Add  to  this 
one-half  cup  of  cider,  if  fresh  and  sweet;  if  not,  use  only  one- 
third  of  a  cup  and  an  equal  amount  of  hot  water;  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.    Strain  through  a  sieve. 

Mock  Pineapple  Salad — Core  and  peel  three  nice  large  apples, 
slice  them  thin  and  against  the  grain  of  the  fruit.  Peel  two  fine 
oranges  and  remove  the  thick  outside  white  pulp,  slice  them  rather 
thicker  than  the  apple,  and,  like  them,  crosswise.  Lay  a  slice  of 
orange  upon  a  slice  of  apple  as  near  the  same  size  as  possible. 
Save  every  drop  of  orange  juice  for  the  sirup.  Place  the  double 
slices  in  a  circle  in  a  glass  dish.  Pour  the  juice  you  have  col- 
lected over  the  fruit.  Sift  white  sugar  thickly  over  it,  also  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  or  more  if  the  fruit  used  is  very  sweet.    Splendid. 

Holdrege,  Neb.  Mrs.  Max  Uhlig. 


578  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 


FRIDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  TWENTY-FOURTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Stewed  prunes. 

Curry  of  tripe.  Hashed  brown  potatoes. 

Dougtinuts.  Dripped  coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Bouillon. 

Fried  cornmeal  mush.      Welsh  rarebit.      Bread  and  butter. 

Prune  sponge.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Black  bean  soup. 

Salmon  croquettes,  sauce  Italienne.      Baked  macaroni. 

Whipped  potatoes.  Marchioness  pudding. 


Curry  of  Tripe — Take  the  tripe  as  it  comes-  from  the  market 
(it  is  ordinarily  cooked).  Place  on  fire  in  cold  water,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  added.  Parboil  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  off  that 
water  and  put  on  again  in  cold  water;  boil  again  fifteen  minutes. 
Take  from  the  stove;  drain  the  tripe  in  a  colander.  Boil  one-half 
cup  of  rice  until  tender.  At  the  time  of  putting  on  the  rice,  slice 
and  brown  in  a  saucepan  two  onions  in  two  tablespoons  of  butter 
or  drippings;  then  add  the  tripe  after  draining  it  in  the  colander, 
and  enough  hot  water  to  cover,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  let 
it  cook  until  the  rice  is  done.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  curry  powder  to 
the  tripe.  Stir  it  up  and  dish  the  tripe  with  the  rice  around  it.  If 
the  tripe  is  not  pickled,  add  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar  before  tak- 
ing up, 

Italienne  Sauce — Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  your 
saucepan  and  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  shallots  chopped 
fine;  cook  until  a  light  brown.  To  this  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
mushrooms,  chopped  fine  and  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley. 
Cook  this  five  minutes.  In  another  saucepan  mix  thoroughly  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  with  one  of  fiour;  to  this  add  one  cup  of  vv^hite 
sto'ck  (or  broth);  season  to  taste  and  cook  eight  minutes.  Strain 
the  first  mixture  and  pour  into  this  sauce  and  let  it  stand  over 
the  fire  while  you  add  a  level  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.    Stir  until  very  smooth, 

Atlanta,  Neb.  Mrs.  L.  B.  Foote. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  579 


MENU  FOR  CHRISTMAS. 


BREAKFAST. 
Fruit. 

Maizena  and  cream. 


Potato  and  ham  sandwicties.  Finger  biscuits. 

Raised  flannel  cakes.  Coffee. 


DINNER. 

Raw  oysters  with  sliced  lemon. 
Thin  bread  and  butter. 

Tomato  bisque. 

Lobster  chops. 

Roast  goose,  apple  sauce. 

Giblet  gravy.  Stuffed  onions. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Wild  cherry  and  almond  sorbet. 

Celery   salad   with  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Grated  cheese.  Salted  wafers. 

Christmas  pudding — foam  sauce. 

Kisses    filled    with    whipped    cream. 

Grapes.         Nuts.  Dates. 

Coffee. 


LATE  LUNCHEON. 

Slices  of  roast  goose — deviled. 

Celery  salad  sandwiches. 

Cocoa.  Fruit. 


Potato  and  Ham  Sandwiches — Into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  well- 
seasoned  mashed  potatoes  stir  two  eggs  without  beating.  Spread 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  this  potato  out  smoothly,  and  lay  on  it  a 
slice  of  neatly  trimmed  boiled  ham.  Cover  this  with  potato,  pinch 
the  edges  together  well,  lay  in  boiling  lard  and  fry  a  delicate 
brown.  Scraps  of  any  kind  of  meat  minced  and  seasoned  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  slices. 


580  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

Finger  Biscuits — Mix  and  sift  three  times  one  quart  flour,  two 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Stir  in  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Flour 
the  breadboard  and  turn  out  the  dough  on  it,  touching  it  as  little 
as  may  be.  Beat  to  a  cream  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  lard  and  one  tablespoonful  sugar.  Spread  this  on  the 
dough,  double  the  dough  over  it,  flour  it  slightly  and  press  it 
out  with  the  rolling-pin  half  an  inch  thick.  With  a  knife  cut 
the  dough  into  strips  flnger  length.  Lay  them  close  together  in 
the  pan  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.    They  are  peculiarly  delicate. 

Raised  Flannel  Cakes — Boil  a  pint  and  a  half  of  sweet  milk 
and  let  it  stand  till  lukewarm.  Add  two  large  tablespoonfuls  yeast 
and  pour  upon  one  pint  flour,  one-half  pint  cornmeal;  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt  and  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  mixed  well  together. 
Cover  closely  and  put  in  a  warm  place.  In  the  morning  add  two 
eggs,  beaten  separately.  Let  the  batter  stand  fifteen  minutes,  if 
convenient,  after  adding  the  eggs.    Bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Lobster  Chops — Put  one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a 
saucepan,  and  when  it  bubbles  stir  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
stir  till  the  flour  is  cooked,  and  pour  in  a  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk 
and  two  cupfuls  of  boiled  lobster,  cut  into  dice.  Stir  till  scalding 
hot,  take  from  fire,  and  when  cool  add  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
one-half  grated  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  the  mass 
is  cold  form  into  chops  that  are  pointed  at  one  end,  roll  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs;  fry  in  a  wire  basket  in  boiling  fat. 
Drain  well;  put  a  claw  into  the  end  of  each  chop.  Serve  on  a  folded 
napkin.    G-arnish  the  dish  with  parsley. 

Roast  Goose — Select  a  young  goose,  which  can  be  told  by  a 
brittle  windpipe,  white  skin,  plump  breast  and  yellow  feet;  the 
web  should  tear  easily.  An  old  goose  is  known  by  its  red  feet. 
Singe,  draw,  wash  and  wipe  the  goose.  Beat  the  breast  flat  with  a 
rolling-pin,  draw  up  the  legs  and  skewer  both  legs  and  wings  close 
to  the  body.  Stuff  with  the  following  dressing:  One  pint  stale 
bread  crumbs,  two  medium-sized  onions  boiled  and  mashed,  one- 
half  teacupful  boiled  rice,  one  teaspoonful  powdered  sage,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  rait,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  pepper,  one  table- 
spoonful melted  butter  and  one-half  teacupful  milk.  Roast  in  a 
covered  pan,  allov/ing  rather  more  than  twenty  minutes  to  the 
pound.  Baste  frequently  with  the  following  mixture:  One  tea- 
spoonful made  m.ustard,  a  saltspoonful  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  a 
large  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  a  teacupful  hot  water,  a  tea- 
spoonful vinegar.    This  basting  is  a  great  improvement. 

Giblet  Gravy — Boil  the  giblets  slowly  two  hours,  or  until  ten- 
der, with  a  slice  of  onion,  three  or  four  peppercorns  and  a  blade 
of  mace.  When  ready  to  make  the  gravy,  take  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  oil  from  the  roasting  pan  of  the  goose;  add  the  water  the 
giblets  were  boiled  in,  enough  water  to  finish  the  gravy,  the 
giblets,  chopped  very  fine,  and  flour  to  thicken.  Boil  up  and  serve 
in  a  gravy  boat.    A  cup  of  rich  milk  improves  this  gravy. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  581 

Stuffed  Onions — Boil  fine  white  onions  in  slightly  salted  water 
for  one  hour,  changing  the  wat3r  three  times.  Lift  them  out  onto 
a  cloth  and  scoop  out  a  portion  from  the  center.  Fill  the  cavity 
with  a  dressing  of  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  one  large 
teaspoon  grated  cheese,  one  teaspoon  catchup,  a  little  cream,  salt 
and  pepper.  Mash  a  little  of  the  onion  'with  these.  Wrap  each 
onion  in  a  piece  of  buttered  tissue  paper  and  twist  the  paper  se- 
curely at  the  ends.  Bake  in  a  buttered  pan  in  a  moderate  oven 
nearly  an  hour  more.  Remove  paper,  put  into  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle 
a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  and  'pour  melted  butter  over  the  tops. 

Wild  Cherry  and  Almond  Sorbet — One  quart  water,  one  pint 
white  sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon,  six  sweet  almonds,  blanched  and 
pounded;  one  bitter  almond,  a  wineglassful  of  wild  cherry  sirup. 
Freeze  in  a  freezer;  when  half  frozen  add  the  beaten  whites  of  three 
eggs.  Serve  in  glass  cups.  The  yolks  of  the  eggs  can  be  used  in 
the  mayonnaise  dressing  for  the  celery  salad. 

Christmas  Pudding — Prepare  all  the  fruit  for  this  one  week 
beforehand.  Remove  all  membrane  and  strings  from  one-half 
pound  beef  suet  and  add  to  it  one  tablespoonful  butter  and  one 
ounce  chopped  almonds;  then  one  large  teacup  of  bread  crumbs, 
soaked  in  milk  and  squeezed  dry;  next  two  cups  sifted  flour; 
next  one  ounce  each  of  citron,  candied  lemon  and  orange  peel; 
one-half  pound  each  raisins  and  currants,  one  teaspoonful  cloves, 
two  of  cinnamon,  one  of  mace,  one  grated  nutmeg,  one  table- 
spoonful  salt,  one  teacup  sugar,  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter — try 
one  cup — six  eggs  beaten  separately,  whites  added  last.  Flour  all 
the  fruit,  shaking  it  v/ell  to  separate  the  bits.  Dissolve  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda  in  a  little  hot  water  and  stir  in.  Let  the  batter  stand 
two  hours,  then  pour  into  a  buttered  pail,  cover  closely  and  steam 
four  hours.  Five  hours  will  make  the  pudding  darker  and  richer 
in  appearance. 

Foam  Sauce — Beat  two  cups  sugar  and  three  tablespoonfuls 
butter  to  a  cream,  add  yolks  of  two  beaten  eggs.  Place  the  bowl 
in  hot  water  and  add,  a  little  at  a  time,  six  tablespoonfuls  boiling 
water;  stir  well.  It  should  be,  when  ready,  a  smooth  yellow 
sirup.  When  ready  to  serve  turn  into  the  bowl  and  put  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs  on  top.  When  the  sauce  is  to  be  helped  stir  the 
white  of  egg  into  the  rest. 

"Devil"  for  Slices  of  Goose — Scald  one  cup  milk;  while  it  is 
scalding  mix  with  a  heaped  tablespoonful  bread  crumbs,  one  tea- 
spoonful  made  mustard,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  pepper;  add  to  this  one  large  tablespoonful  butter  and 
one  teaspoonful  catchup.  Rub  one  tablespoonful  flour  and  one  of 
butter  together  and  stir  into  the  scalding  milk;  when  it  thickens 
add  gradually  to  the  other  mixture,  and,  lastly,  one  beaten  yolk  of 
egg.  Return  to  the  fire,  heat  through,  remove  at  once  and  spread 
on  each  slice  of  goose.  Miss  M.  E.  Wright. 

Cairo,  111. 


582  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

SUNDAY,    DECEMBER   THE    TWENTY-SIXTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Bananas. 
Wheatlet  with  cream. 
Steamed  eggs.  Rice  cakes,  maple  sirup. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Cream  salmon. 

Bread  and  butter.  Prune  jelly. 

Cake.  Tea. 


DINNER. 

Cream  of  lima  bean  soup. 

Roast  beef.         Baked  potatoes.         Stewed  tomatoes. 

Fig  pudding.  Coffee. 


Here  is  bread  which  strengthens  men's  hearts. 
And  therefore  is  called  "The  Staff  of  Life." 

Perfect  Bread — To  make  good  bread,  be  careful  to  procure  the 
best  of  flour,  as  it  is  poor  economy  to  purchase  an  inferior  article. 
To  make  four  loaves  of  perfect  bread,  take  two  small  quarts  of 
milk,  and  heat  to  boiling  over  hot  water,  then  set  aside  to  cool; 
when  just  warm,  dissolve  in  the  milk  one  cake  of  compressed 
yeast.  Sift  four  large  quarts  of  flour  with  two  level  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt  and  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar.  Place 
in  a  large  bowl  or  bread  pan,  and  warm,  if  the  weather  is  cold. 
Make  a  hole  in  the  center  and  pour  in  the  milk  and  yeast;  work 
in  slowly  the  flour  with  the  hand,  or  a  large  spoon,  and  if  too  soft 
sprinkle  with  a  little  flour  and  knead  'well.  Cover,  and  set  in  a 
moderately  warm  place  to  rise.  In  the  morning,  knead  thoroughly 
and  work  in  a  tablespoonful  of  good  sweet  butter.  After  kneading 
thoroughly,  put  in  four  long  narrow  pans;  when  the  loaves  rise 
to  twice  their  size  place  in  the  oven,  and  bake  about  forty-five 
minutes.  The  oven  should  be  very  hot  at  first,  that  the  heat  may 
penetrate  the  dough  without  hardening  the  outside;  bake  a  fine 
brown,  and  remove  from  the  pans  immediately  when  done. 

This  is  an  excellent  recipe,  and  was  awarded  first  prize,  given 
by  a  prominent  eastern  newspaper  for  the  best  recipe  for  making 
bread. 

Fig  Pudding— One  pint  of  well  cooked  salted  pearl  barley,  two 
cups  of  finely  chopped  figs  (the  best),  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two 
cups  of  milk.  Mix  thoroughly,  turn  into  an  earthen  pudding  dish, 
and  place  the  dish  in  the  oven  in  a  pan  half  full  of  boiling  water; 
bake  slowly  until  the  milk  is  nearly  absorbed.  Stir  once  or  twice 
that  the  figs  may  be  distributed  equally  through  the  pudding.  A 
delicious  pudding,  which  requires  no  sauce. 

Marion  C.  Wilson. 

No.  6407  Lexington  Avenue,  Chicago. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  583 

MONDAY,    DECEMBER   THE   TWENTY-SEVENTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Hominy  grits— milk.        Cream  of  veal  haslh.      Toast. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Goose  a  la  Newburg  in  chafing  dish. 

Saratoga  chips.  Milk  biscuits.  Stuffed  apples. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Squash  and  goose  bone  soup. 

Breaded  mutton  chops,  tomato  sauce.  Lima  beans. 

Beets.        Pudding  a  la  Grande  Belle. 

Coffee. 


Squash  and  Goose  Bone  Soup — At  this  time  of  the  year  use 
winter  squash,  cut  into  pieces  two  or  three  inches  square,  put  into 
saucepan,  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Press  through  a  colander  and 
return  to  kettle;  add  one  pint  milk.  Rub  together  three  table- 
stpoons  flour  and  three  of  butter;  add  this  to  the  stock  of  bones 
left  over  from  Christmas;  stir  until  creamy;  add  pepper  and  salt 
and  tablespoon  onion  juice.    Serve. 

Pudding  a  la  Grande  Belle — This  pudding  is  economical  and 
dainty  if  nicely  made.  Brush  small  molds  with  butter;  fill  with 
crumbed  bread  and  dried  English  currants.  Beat  three  eggs  with- 
out separating,  add  one  pint  milk  and  four  tablespoons  sugar.  Pour 
carefully  over  the  bread  and  let  stand  five  minutes.  Place  molds 
in  baking  pan  of  boiling  water  and  bake  in  oven  thirty  minutes 
or  steam  half  an  hour.    Serve  with  liquid  pudding  sauce. 

Austin,  111.  Mrs.  G.  D.  Kendall. 


TUESDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  TWENTY-EIGHTH. 

BREAKFAST. 

Baked  apples. 

Oatmeal.  Egged  veal  hash. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Oyster  pie.  Olives. 

Muffins.  Canned  fruit. 

Chocolate. 


584  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Marrowball  soup. 

Mutton  ^  la  Venison. 

Spinach.  Maslied  potatoes. 

Farina  souffle — currant  jelly  sauce. 

Coffee. 


Marrowball  Soup — Let  piece  of  marrow,  size  of  egg,  melt 
slowly.  When  slightly  cooled  add  one  cup  grated  bread  crumbs, 
yolk  of  one  egg,  salt,  nutmeg  to  flavor;  mix  well  with  little  cold 
water.  Take  a  teaspoonful,  drop  into  boiling  stock;  do  not  cover 
the  kettle;  should  the  ball  fall  apart  more  bread  crumbs  should 
be  added.  Put  the  mixture  in  by  the  spoonful,  and  let  boil  slowly 
three  minutes. 

Mutton  a  la  Venison — Three  days  before  it  is  needed  place 
five  to  six  pound  leg  of  mutton  in  pickling,  two-thirds  vinegar  to 
one  of  water,  sufficient  to  cover  meat,  one  large  sliced  onion,  two 
bay  leaves.  Turn  the  meat  twice  a  day.  When  wanted  take  out 
of  pickle,  and  roast  same  als  any  other  meat.    Season  well. 

Farina  Souffle — In  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  dissolve  lump  of 
butter,  size  of  an  egg,  three-fourths  cup  farina,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  pinch  of  salt.  Boil  about  five  minutes.  Beat  two  eggs 
separately;  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  all  thoroughly,  add  one 
teaspoon  flavoring,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve 
immediately. 

Currant  Jelly  Sauce— Dissolve  three  tablespoonfuls  home- 
made currant  jelly  with  half  cup  hot  water,  then  add  ten  drops 
lemon  juice.     Serve  cold.  Miss  K.  Geige. 

No.  440  Wells  Street,  Chicago. 


WEDNESDAY,   DECEMBER   THE   TWENTY-NINTH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Breakfast  food  with  dates. 
Oyster  omelet. 
Bread  and  butter. 
Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Pressed  chicken.  Scalloped  apples. 

Cream  toast. 

Jumbles.  Tea. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  585 

DINNER. 

Bouillon. 

Olives. 

Oold  leg  of  mutton. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Turnips  a  la  creme. 

Graham  pudding. 

Coffee. 


Graham  Pudding — One  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one-half  cupful  of 
molasses,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  little  salt,  one 
small  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  the  milk,  one  cupful  of  stoned  rai- 
sins, one  cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  and  two  cupfuls  of  graham 
flour.  Steam  three  hours  and  let  stand  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes 
to  dry  off.    Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

Lemon  Sauce — Three-fourths  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful 
of  butter,  one  egg,  the  juice  and  one-half  the  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon,  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg  and  one-half  cupful  of  boiling 
water.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  beat  in  the  egg,  whipped 
light,  the  lemon  and  nutmeg.  Beat  hard,  then  add  the  water,  put 
into  a  tin  pail,  and  set  within  the  uncovered  top  of  the  tea- 
kettle (which  must  boil),  until  the  sauce  is  very  hot,  but  not  boil- 
ing.   Stir  constantly.  Mrs.  C.  L.  Wilbur. 

Lansing,  Mich. 


THURSDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  THIRTIETH. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grapes.  Scrapple. 

Lyonnaise  potatoes. 

Buckwheat  cakes — old  style. 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Chicken  croquettes.     Brown  bread  and  butter. 

Plain  cake.  Apple  jelly. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  soup.  Maryland  biscuit. 

Baked  spareribs — apple  sauce. 

Baked  sweet  potatoes.  Baked  onions. 

Mince   pie. 

Coffee. 


586  THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK. 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (old  style)-^Three  pints  buckwheat,  one- 
fourth  pint  each  of  wheat  flour  and  cornmeal,  tablespoonful  of 
molasses,  three  and  one-fourth  pints  tepid  water,  a  little  salt;  stir 
all  together  thoroughly;  then  add  a  penny's  worth  of  baker's  yeast. 
Let  stand  over  night  and  before  baking  for  breakfast  add  one- 
half  teaspoonful  baking  soda. 

Scrapple — Boil  about  one  and  a  half  pounds  each  of  beef  and 
pork  until  tender;  then  take  from  the  fire  and  remove  skin  and 
bones,  retaining  the  broth.  Chop  the  meat  fine  and  return  it  to 
the  broth  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  in  cornmeal  and 
let  it  boil  well  as  for  musih,  then  turn  into  pans  several  inches 
deep.  When  cold  cut  in  thin  slices  and  fry  as  mush,  though 
not  so  much  lard  is  needed. 

Maryland  Biscuit — Three  pounds  flour,  a  little  salt,  one-half 
pound  pure  lard,  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Lay  a  cloth  on 
the  table,  dredge  well  with  flour,  put  dough  on  it,  and  beat  with 
mallet  or  hatchet,  sprinkling  on  it  a  little  flour.  Roll  up  and  repeat 
for  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  when  it  is  ready  it  will  snap  when  a 
bit  is  broken  off.  Take  off  w^at  will  make  a  nice  size  biscuit, 
knead  it  in  the  hands  until  smooth,  prick  with  a  fork  and  bake 
about  twenty  minutes  in  a  good  oven.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Cox. 

Gettysburg,  Penn. 


FRIDAY,  DECEMBER  THE  THIRTY-FIRST. 


BREAKFASiT. 

Fine  white  hominy  or  grits. 

Breakfast  toast.  Boiled  eggs. 

Doughnuts.  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Vienna  chocolate.  Bread  and  butter. 

Welsh  rarebit. 

Soft  gingerbread.  Fruit. 


DINNER. 

Fried  pork  steaks.  Boiled  potatoes. 

Stewed  parsnips.  Beet  salad. 

Wheat  bread. 

Pumpkin  pie.  Army  coffee. 

Vienna  Chocolate — Put  into  a  covered  pot,  set  in  boiling  water 
one  quart  of  new  milk;  stir  into  it  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
grated  chocolate  mixed  to  a  paste  with  cold  milk;  let  it  boil  two 
or  three  minutes  and  serve  at  once.  To  make  good  chocolate  good 
materials  are  required. 


THE  CHICAGO  RECORD  COOK  BOOK.  587 

Fried  Pork  Steaks — Fry  like  beef  steaks,  add  pepper  and  salt, 
or  sprinkle  with  dry  powdered  sage  if  the  sausage  flavor  is  liked. 

Stewed  Parsnips — Wash,  scrape  and  slice  pieces  an  inch 
square;  put  into  hot  water  and  boil  until  tender;  boil  the  liquor 
down  if  possible,  if  not  drain;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
small  piece  of  butter  and  remove  to  the  back  of  the  stove  to 
prevent  burning.  When  ready  to  send  to  the  table,  add  one  cup 
hot  milk. 

Beet  Salad — Slice  cold  boiled  beets;  cut  into  neat  strips;  line 
a  salad  bowl  with  white,  crisp  lettuce;  heap  the  beets  in  the  center 
and  pour  mayonnaise  dressing  over  them  just  before  it  goes  to  the 
table;  or  you  can  pass  the  dressing  vnth  the  salad  in  a  pretty  bowl. 

Pumpkin  Pie — Pare  a  nice  ripe  pumpkin;  slice  into  small 
pieces;  boil  v/ith  water  enough  to  prevent  burning.  When  tender 
rub  the  pulp  through  a  colander.  To  one  pint  add  one  pint  of 
good  milk,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon, one-half  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  nut- 
meg, grated  peel  of  half  a  lemon.  Bake  with  under  crust  about 
half  an  hour. 

Army  Coffee — Coffee  may  be  made  quickly  by  placing  the  re- 
quired quantity  of  cold  water  in  the  pot  and  adding  the  coffee, 
tied  up  in  a  sack  of  fine  gauze  or  piece  of  muslin.  Bring  to  boil- 
ing point,  boil  five  minutes  and  serve.  This  is  an  excellent  way 
to  make  coffee  if  one  does  not  prefer  the  French  drip  coffee-pot. 

Monroe,  Wis.  Miss  Idelle  Jennings. 


\X7"e  may  live  wihout  poetry,  music  and  art; 
^^       We  may  live  without  conscience,  and  live  without  heart ; 
We  may  live  without  friends,  we  may  live  without  books; 
But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks. 


AND    YOU    WILL    NOT    LIVE    WITHOUT    IT. 


B.    T.    BABBITT, 


Manufacturer   of 


Best    Soap,    "1776"    5oap    Powder, 
Best   Baking  Powder. 

OUR    REPUTATION    IS    A    GUARANTEE    OF    EXCELLENCE. 
Established    183  4. 


INDEX. 


CLASSIFICATION. 

CLASS  A— ANIMAL  FOOD. 

I.  Beef. 

II.  Mutton  and  Lamb. 

III.  Veal. 

IV.  Pork,  Ham  and  Sausage. 
V.  Miscellaneous  Meats. 

VI.  Poultry  and  Game. 

VII.  Fish. 

VIII.  Oysters  and  Other  Shell  Fish. 

IX.  Soups. 

X.  Eggs. 

XI.  Cheese. 

CLASS   B— VEGETABLE    FOOD. 

I.    Breads,  Muffins,  Breakfast  Cakes  and  Sandwiches. 
II.    Grains,  Cereals  and  Porridges. 

III.  Potatoes  and  Other  Vegetables. 

IV.  Cake  and  Fried  Cakes. 

V.  Puddings,  Pies,  Desserts  and  Ices. 

VI.  Fruits — Fresh  and  Cooked. 

VII.  Preserves,  Jams,  Jellies  and  Candy. 

VIII.  Salads. 

IX.  Pickles  and  Catsups. 

X.  Beverages. 

XI.  Sauces  and  Miscellaneous. 


CLASS   A— ANIMAL   FOOD. 


Page 
BEEF— 

a  la  mode 175 

and  carrots  556 

balls   14 

Boiled,  parsley  sauce 195 

Broiled,    tenderloin 422 

Braised,   stuffing  and  sauce 499 

Breslau  of  101 

Breakfast  stew  of 25 

Cake  (English)   431 

Canelon  of   18 

Canelon  of,  flemish  sauce 324 

Chipped    ....'. , 151 

Chipped,  with  tomatoes  463 

collops    379 

Collops,    with    tomatoes 377 

Cream,  chipped 68 

Creamed    365 

croquettes   236 

Deviled  336 

Dried,  scrambled  185 

Fillet  of,  a  la  Hollandaise  71 

Fillet   of    (mushroom  sauce) 457 

Fresh   boiled    210 

Frizzled    394,  418 

Frizzled,  cream  toast 292 

Grilled  225 


Page 
BEEF— Continued. 

Grilled   on  toast  30 

heart,  baked  503 

gumbo    415 

kidney,  stewed   237,  284 

kidney,  terrapin  style  104 

loaf  with  tomatoes   119 

Miroton   of    235 

olives  271 

pie,    with   potato   crust 357 

Pressed    33 

Rissoles    158 

Roast,    from   the     round     (with 

gravy)     150 

Roast  (warmed  over) 22 

Roast,    Yorkshire   pudding 100,269 

roulette  15 

salmi    76 

Scotch   roll   of 48 

shortening   331 

Steamed     60 

stew   with   dumplings    561 

Stew  of  brown 36 

stew,  favorite,  with  mushrooms 

and   potatoes    217 

Stuffed,  stew  of 170 

Timbale  of   406 


589 


590 


INDEX— CLASS  A,  Mil. 


Page 
BEEP— Continued. 

Beef  ettes    428 

Beefsteak — 

and  kidney  pudding  199 

and  oyster  pie 528 

Baked,    and   potatoes 192 

Broiled  335,350 

broiled,   Bordelaise   sauce 380 

broiled,    with  mushrooms 486 

Flank    452 

pie,    baked 401 

potpie   (suet  crust) 548 

pudding,    boiled 108 

Rolled,  with  brown  potatoes 369 

rolls  571 

Sirloin    442 

Smothered   390 

Smothered,   with  plaintains 228 

Sponge    58 

Stewed   515 

Stewed,  with  oysters 93 

Stuffed    89,313 

Vienna  472 

with  fried  bananas 12,  417 

with  rice  244 

Boneless  birds    156 

Cornish  pasties 360 

Dainty   lunch  dish 240 

Hamburg    steak 9 

Harricot  of  ox  tails 493 

Hash — 

Baked    427 

Cornbeef   43 

Cornbeef  (Delmonico) 355 

Heart,   stewed 544 

New  England  boiled  dinner 53 

Summer  sausage 312 

Scotch  collops,    demi-glaze    564 

Spiced   beef  relish 37 

Suet   for   frying 433 

Tongue — 

Tongue     257,  374 

Baked,  sauce  Hollandaise 311 

Boiled,    sauce    Lyonnaise    374 

Braised    302 

Cold  (rhubarb  jelly) 260 

Fillet    of 461 

fricassee    184 

Jellied    340 

Scalloped    551 

toast    204 

with   rice   Milanaise 176 

Turkish  stew 492 

Zrazie  a  la  hate 374 

MUTTON— 

Baked    cutlets 462 

Baked    hash 570 

Boiled  leg  of 186 

Braised    129 

Breaded  chops 529 

Breaded  chops,  French 248 

Breast  of  and  tomatoes 259 

Broiled  chops  and  tomato  sauce..  368 
Broiled  steak  534 


MUTTON— Continued. 

Chops,   grilled    152 

in  batter   279 

en  papillotte 196 

Cold  roast  broiled 434 

Curried   544 

Dormers   234 

English   chops 513 

Fricassee  of  sheep's  tongue 164 

haggis  (Bechamel  sauce) 438 

Kidneys   (sheep)    (broiled) 119 

Luncheon    relish 398 

leg  of,   corned 496 

a  la  venison  584 

rechauffe©  555 

Minced  372 

Muttonettes    146 

Old  Cornish  meat  pie 478 

Roast  of  ribs,  chops 238 

Ragout    of 188,  489,  500 

Rolled  loin  of 178 

Roast    55 

Scalloped,    and   macaroni 32 

Shepard's   pie 141 

Stewed  sheep's  tongues 174 

Stuffed  shoulder  of 31 

Scalloped    282,  309 

Sheep's  brains  roasted 23 

Lamb — 

Breast  of,   with  tomatoes 354 

Braised  lamb 409 

French  stew  of  hearts 222 

Chops    352,  380 

chops    (broiled) 349,  426 

chops    (with    mushrooms) 114 

chops,    breaded 446 

cutlets    182 

a  la  duchesse  392 

Hash   371 

Kidneys,    stewed 515 

Kidneys    a   la  terrapin 384 

Pickled  lambs  tongues  435 

Roast  shoulder  of 281 

Roast    (mint    sauce) 305 

Shoulder  of,  a  la  Parisienne 505 

stew  521 

VEAL— 

and  mushrooms 534 

Baked    veal    cutlet 33 

Blanquette  of   503 

Boiled  calf's  feet  (parsley  butter).  106 

Boned    calf's   head 167 

Boneless    birds 353 

Brains,   calves    (creamed) 243 

scalloped    250 

(with  eggs)   42 

fried    316 

Brazilian    stew 211 

Breakfast    relish 416 

Breast  of  veal,  baked  with   to- 
matoes   141 

Broiled  veal  steak 511 

Calves'   head   cheese 344 

Calf's  head,  with  skin 342 

Casserole  of  mock  sweetbreads...  172 


INDEX— CLASS  A,  III-V. 


591 


VEAL— Continued. 

Chopped  veal  leg 180 

Cold  veal  tongue 380 

Collops    190,  204 

Curry  of 82 

Cutlets    296 

a  la  Maintenon  520 

au  gratin 220 

cream    gravy 377 

fried    231 

lemon  sauce    495 

tomato    sauce 44 

w^hite  sauce  246 

Dresden   patties 103 

Fricandeau  of 214 

Fricassee   of,    brown 332 

French    style 163 

Hashed    320 

with  poached  eggs 378 

Indian  cutlets 480 

Loaf    83,  403 

Marbled    297 

Melton  276 

Minced   99 

Minced,   on   toast 567 

Mock    sweetbreads 28 

pigeons    201 

Mushroomed    cutlets 517 

olives  with  oysters   109 

oysters   388 

Parmesan    cutlets. 345 

Pate  de  f oie  de  veau 235 

Pocket  of,  Spanish  dressing 125 

Potpie   117,  151 

with    potatoes 467 

Reachauffe  of 247 

Roast    318 

Roast    (fillet) 197 

Roll    257 

Shoulder  of  (French) 441 

Steaks 135 

Stewed     ribs     of — see       stewed 

shoulder  of  484 

Stewed  shoulder  (chestnut  dress- 
ing        65 

Stewed    kidneys 38 

Stuffed   255 

Terrapin   262 

Trifles    287 

Vealettes    408 

BACON,  HAM,  PORK  AND  SAUSAGE 

Breakfast    sausage 55 

bacon  with  fried  mush.    66 
bacon    v/ith    potatoes. .  390 

Breaded    sausage 498,  503 

Bacon    on   toast 251 

bacon  cream  gravy 514 

fraze    457 

Crisped  bacon    (sweet  potatoes) . .  4.52 

Fried   bacon   and  eggs 525 

Ham  and  macaroni 273 

a  la  venison 388 

and   rice    450 

baked   333,  471,  577 

balls    265 


Page 
BACON,  HAM,  ETC.— Continued. 

Ham,  barbecued  109 

broiled    275 

croquettes    15 

deviled  ham  loaf  222 

fried  ham  and  eggs 465 

fritters   33 

loaf,  deviled  222 

minced   210 

omelette    361 

pate    474 

potted     506 

quenelle   165 

toast     198,  225 

with    currant   jelly 533 

Head,  collared   494 

Hock    172 

Kidney    and    bacon 79 

Liver  and  bacon  saute 27 

Mock   duck   10 

Mock  quail  on  toast 217 

Noodled  ham  467 

Pork- 
Baked  beans 53 

Boston  baked  beans 20 

Ragout  of,  tenderloin  and  com..  555 

Roast    46 

with  sage  and  onion  dress- 
ing      554 

Roast  spare  ribs 81 

steak    577 

steak,    fried    587 

Sausage   rolls    539 

toast    479 

Scrappel    586 

Salt   cutlets    266 

Something  for  breakfast 300 

Tenderloin 23 

MISCELLANEOUS  MEATS— 

An  excellent  breakfast  dish 211 

Boudins    189 

Brains,     180 

fried    412 

Cecils    - 328 

Croquettes — 

Of  odds  and  ends 64 

Mixed     260 

Meat    459,  545 

Hominy  and  meat  261 

Rice   and  meat   315 

Rissoles    174,  369 

Vinaigrette    373 

Hearts,    French  stew   of 222 

roasted  calves  328 

stuffed    329 

fricassee  of  calves  101 

Liver — 

and    bacon    83 

and  bacon  balls 549 

a    la    bordelaise 223 

Baked    316,  381 

Bouilettes    of    liver 126 

Braised    451 

Calves,  en  civet 73 

cutlets   405 


592 


INDEX— CLASS  A,  V-VII. 


Page 
MISCELLANEOUS  MEATS— Continued 

Liver,  Diced 570 

Fried    calves 453 

fried   in  crumbs    434 

Larded  calves   271 

Mock   terrapin    476 

patties    192 

Ragout   of    463 

Meat,  piquant  of  cold 372 

balls    134 

casserole  of  rice  and 196 

cold  with  puree  of  potatoes.  486 

curry   of   cold   55S 

dumplings    523 

farina    497 

fricassee    of   298 

frissled    512 

gateau   of   cold 575 

gems    407 

iced,   jelly    244 

minced,  on  toast 254 

patties    448 

popovers    385 

Scalloped    170 

slices  60 

Hash,    baked    68,116 

Boston  brown   417 

cream   157 

Jambalaya    97 

Marrow  toast 229 

Peppers,   filled    430 

stuffed    481 

stuffed  English    541 

meat    396 

Pannikins    284 

Rabbit  curried   57,    84 

fricasseed    18 

fried,  a  la  creole 518 

fried    525 

panned    508 

ragout  of 576 

smothered   in   onions   75 

stewed    29,543 

Rice  cutlets   123 

Romaine   meat   pudding 94 

Something  for  luncheon 202 

Stewed  squirrel   106,  512 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Indien H 

and    eggs    on    toast.  ..240 

and  tomato   435 

and  lamb  fricassee 556 

Tripe   (with   mushrooms) 72 

a  la   Constance 103 

curry    of    34,578 

fricasseed    531 

fried    32 

lyonnaise    531 

Veal  and  ham  pie 105 

White  souffle    387 

POULTRY  AND  GAME— 

Chicken — 

broiled     322 

Brunswick   stew    419 

Cantonese,  and  macaroni 524 

Chicken  and  rice  croquettes 302 


POULTRY  AND  GAME— Continued. 

Chicken,  Cream  of,  and  potatoes.   ..421 
Cream,  fricassee  and  mushrooms.  542 

croquettes    98 

curry    337 

custard    335 

Egyptian    224 

Fried  26,  307,  370 

with  rice 546 

fricassee    288 

fricassee     (white     fricassee     of 

chicken)     115 

Fowl   cutlets    17 

Giblet   patties   209 

Gumbo   47 

hash  on  toast 396 

Jellied     62,  532 

Kentucky    fried 402 

Kentucky    style 482 

Louisiana  gumbo  file 341 

Maryland  fried  (see  fried  chicken)  375 

Mexican  stew 517 

pan    cakes 483 

pie  41,  160 

pie   (English)   431 

Pulled  (white  sauce)  132 

pudding 360 

smothered  in  kraut 35 

Smothered    (Virginia)    469 

Steamed  southern 448 

Steamed    147 

fowl,   celery  sauce 424 

stew    277 

stew  with  dumplings 299 

Stewed    138 

with   cauliflower    382 

terrapin    324 

Timbales    of 13 

Virginia  fried   394 

stew   464 

Walled   52 

with  mushrooms   506 

Turkey — 

Boiled   572 

Deviled    74 

or   chicken   in   savory  jelly 550 

Roast,   with   chestnut  filling 536 

Turkey    95 

the    second    day 559 

Duck- 
roast    562,  436 

with  baked  apples 510 

Goose—. 

roast    580 

"Devil"  for 581 

Old  Cornish  meat  pie 478 

Pigeon,   stewed 128 

Venison — 

roast  6 

steak,   broiled   565 

FISH— 

Anchovy  toast  543,  167 

Baked  blue  fish   300 

Baked  codfish   (fresh) 168 

salt    139 


INDEX— CLASS  A,  VII-VIII. 


593 


Page 
FISH— Continued, 

Baked  haddock  (sauce) 338 

halibut   steaks    263 

Pike    113 

fed  snapper  a  la  Creole 74 

rock  cod   (dressing  with)...    91 

shad   or   white   fish 229 

(with    lemon) 239 

shad,  stuffed 207 

trout  a  la  Chambord   362 

with  sauce 83 

white   fish    203,  550 

Banked  salmon  149 

Black  sea  bass  (Poulette  sauce)...  398 

Boiled  bass  and  mushrooms 326 

fresh    codfish    154 

salmon  steak,  court  bouillon  120 

Breakfast   dish   443 

Broiled  black  bass 290 

blue  fish  420 

mackerel  468 

Spanish    294 

pompano   183 

salted    salmon 400 

salt  mackerel    116 

sardines    474 

shad    252,225,219 

white  fish  248 

and  hard  boiled  eggs  133 

Chatreuse  of  fish 213 

Cod  fish  a  la  Bechemal 124 

and  potato   puree 47 

au  f romage  88 

baked    139 

balls    276 

chowder    72 

croquettes    323 

creamed   on  toast 104 

in  cream  335,  34 

maitre  d'hotel  327 

with  eggs  176 

Cold  boiled  fish  a  la  vinaigrette. .  187 

Court   Bouillon    (Southern) 373 

Creamed  cod,  in  potato  cases  479 

Cod   fish   with  poached.. 

eggs   126 

fish    447,  136 

on  toast  39 

salmon     144 

Creole   kedgeree    278,414 

Curried   fish    282 

Cusk  a  la  creme    539 

Cutlets   78 

Chowder   232 

Croquettes    217 

Finnan  haddie  70 

Fried  salmon   trout   cutlets 114 

Fried  blue  fi.sh  348 

perch 304 

trout    298 

white  fish    258 

Halibut   a    la   Poulette 285 

and   eggs  on   toast 367 

Creole  style  297 

Maitre  d'Hotel  351 

on   toast   146 


FISH— Continued. 

Halibut    steak    (baked) 147,  526 

(baked  stuffed)    444 

Jellied  white   fish 155 

Kedgeree 30 

Planked  shad  194 

white   fish    536 

Pickled  salmon  trout 79 

Potted  fish 318 

Rechauff ee    ; . .  135 

Rissoles    16 

Salmon  cream  on  toast 85 

croquettes    32 

steak   558 

Salt  cod  fish  in  puree  of  potatoes.  551 
mackerel    (cream  sauce).  ..107,  198 

Scalloped   herring    112 

shad   roes 206 

salmon   375 

Souffle  salt  245 

Souffle    13,  280 

Steaks  with  tomato  sauce 13 

Steamed  blue  fish   560 

Steamed   fish 465 

Stuffed  white  fish,  creamed  oyster 

sauce  6 

Trout,    baked,    potato    stufiing 455 

Turbot  a  la  creme 311,  429 

Weak  fish  (see  whitefish)   433 

White  fish  a  la  creme 191 

au    gratin    27,    88 

fritters    140 

Yarmouth  bloater  19 

OYSTERS,       CLAMS      AND       SHELL 
FISH— 

Clams — 

Chowder    227 

Creamed    454 

Deviled    220 

Fritters    294 

Crabs,  deviled  573 

Lobster — 
a  la  Newberg 98,423 

Oysters — 

a  la  Newberg 125 

a  la  Kalamazoo 442 

Chops    580 

Creamed    25 

Croquettes     128,  551 

Curry  of  122 

Deviled    73 

Fricasseed    547 

Fried  with  lemon  165 

Frizzled     577 

Little  pigs   in  blanket& 15,  519 

Macaroni    with 509 

Omelet   • 109 

on  crackers 176 

Panned    44,  493 

Pate   with   crumbs 195 

Patties    153 

Pie    488,  532 

Pie,  beefsteak  and 528 

Rarebit    HI 

Salad     59 


594 


INDEX— CLASS  A,  VIII-IX. 


Page 
OYSTERS,   ETC.— Continued. 

Oyster   Sauce    550 

Saute    461 

Scalloped    .- 159,  431 

Short  cake  552 

Toast     ; 67 

Scallops,    fried 412 

Shrimps,  creamed  on  toast 546 

SOUPS— 

Almond   309 

Amber   (see   clear) 552 

Argentine    131 

Asparagus    330 

Baked   vegetable   369 

Barley    548 

Bean  62,  216,  502 

Beef,   with  okra 560 

^gg^       4Yg 

Black  bean  ".'.".'.'.'.".'.'.".*.'.'.'.'.*  .'382,"  388!  533 

Bisque  of  clams    75,  386 

oysters   536 

Bouillon  160,  360 

Bran    252 

Brown   farina    180 

Cabbage  and  milk 345 

Calves  head   29 

Carrot   178,  379 

Cat   fish 201 

Celery   46,  515 

Chestnut   90 

Chicken  broth 25 

Clam  bisque 386 

soup    377 

Clear  broth   with  vermicelli   496 

soup  6 

a  la  Vienne 477 

Consomme   516 

a  rindependence 305 

with  custard  cubes....  170 

Corn 208 

a  la  royale 371 

(and   tomato)    452 

caramel   522 

chowder    426 

Cream    of    asparagus 185,239 

barley  14,  30,  471 

beets   348 

carrots   258 

celery  384,  448,  480 

cheese    220 

chicken    213 

lima  beans 351 

onion 278 

pea    65,  285 

potato   491 

rice 40,455 

spinach  567 

tapioca  27 

toast    297 

tomato   242 

Crecy    405 

Curry    78 

Dried   green   pea 575 

Duchess    139,  147,  291 

Economical    (veal) 16,  558 


SOUPS— Continued. 

Egg  barley   551 

dumpling    175 

Egg-plant   469 

Fish    soup    240 

Giblet    355 

Green  corn   454 

Gumbo   462 

Haricot    172 

Leek    206 

Lenten   135 

Left  over   283 

Levigne  417 

Lobster    423 

Marrowball   584 

Milk    503 

Mock  bisque  122 

oyster    51,  205 

turtle    123 

Mushroom   508 

Mutton  broth 331 

soup   316 

Neapolitan  550 

Noodle    484,  521 

Normandy    300 

Oat  meal  70 

Olla-Porida    287 

Onion 10,  272 

Onion    and    cucumber 408 

Ox    tail 209,  439 

Peas    (green) 44,  292 

Peanut     574 

Pink  cream 480 

Piquant   pea 544 

Potage  a  la  bonne  femme 270 

Potato   69,  236 

Pumpkin   517 

Puree  of  asparagus 228 

beans    107 

carrots   55 

chestnuts    513 

clamart  253 

chicken  and  rice 149 

maigre    494 

potatoes  98 

split  peas  114 

vegetables   129 

Quick  beef   529 

Rice    528 

and   tomato 103,  398 

Russian    chlodnik 374 

Sago  214,  225 

Salmon    117 

Salsify    437 

Savory    141 

Scotch  broth  80 

Sorrel   249 

Soup  a  la  Salvini 326 

en  reverie 217 

with  egg  drops 295 

Spanish    36 

Split  pea 450,  571 

Squash   and  goosebone   583 

Summer     267,  357 

Tapioca  and  railk 436 

Toast    313 


INDEX— CLASS  A,  IX-XI. 


595 


Page 
SOUPS— Continued. 

Tomato  bisque 268,  366 

soup  88,  105,  137,  472,  519 

tapioca  444 

Turkey    bone 539 

Turtle  bean 158 

Veal  broth  409 

Vegetable  (or  Julienne) 564 

spring    191 

Velvet  224 

Wexham   77 

White    58,  260 


EGGS— 
Egg — 

nests  on  toast 164 

toast    289,  331 

vermicelli  or  Beauregard  eggs...    38 
Eggs— 

a  la  Carraccas 384 

creme 405 

dauphine  490 

goldenrod  325 

Suisse  91 

I'Oudinot    567 

and  mushrooms   527 

au    lit 346 

Baked    87,  310,  513 

Beauregard  (see  egg  vermicelli)..    38 

Boiled  363 

(soft)    234 

Brouilles  202 

Brown   buttered    504 

Cheese    toasted    with 372 

Chinese  with  tomato  sauce 9 

Columbus   236 

Cuban     249 

Curried    169,  421 

Deviled    273 

Dropped  or  poached,  on  toast 411 

en   f romage    244 

Escalloped    (see   scalloped)    466 

Fricasseed    469 

Fried,  with  bacon 525 

Hard  boiled,  with  cream  sauce..    22 

Honey-comb    227 

in    bread    sauce 472,  574 

in   cases    300 

in  surtout   338 

Milanese   549 

Minced    492 

Newport  style  381 

New   York   style 148 

on  zweibach  192 

poached,  in  milk  562 

on  toast  258 

(Spanish   style) 206 

with  ham  sauce 28 

hashed  veal 378 

sauce     287 

tomato  toast 272 

Rice  524 

Rumbled   55,  119 

Scalloped    466 

•with  ham  19 


Page 
EGGS— Continued. 

Scotch    245 

Scrambled   53,   86,261 

Scrambled,  with  asparagus   tips..  253 

tomatoes    78,  455 

Seven  minute   477 

Shirred    242 

Soyer's     255 

Spanish    92 

Steamed    509 

Sur  le  plat 139 

Swiss     229,425 

Vanilla  snow  (see  puddings) 106 

Whipped   263 

with  milk  501 

Omelet 29,  145 

Apple  425,519 

Asparagus    230 

Bread    106 

Cauliflower    475 

Cheese    115,272 

Chicken  191 

Cream    49 

Cup    440 

Delicate    423 

Egg  or  plain  29,  145,  482 

Fairy    301 

Fish    123,  555 

Foamy,    with    ham 485 

Friar's   40 

German   155 

Green    corn    365 

Ham    361,  413,  547 

Hash    340 

Meat    409 

Mushroom   523 

Oyster    109 

Perfection    160 

Pineapple  292 

Quaker 1S7 

Quaking    393 

Sausage  131 

Spanish  429 

Tomato    270,357 

Trilby  (new)  194 

with  parsley  185 

peas  369 

Spanish  delicacy,  A 392 

CHEESE— 

Balls    460 

Canopea  530 

Cottage  318 

Curds    388 

Custard   49 

Fingers    't 

Fondu  211 

Omelet   272 

Pudding    192 

Puffs    51 

Ramakins    347 

Sandv/iches   263 

Something   for  luncheon    144,  263 

Souffle    367 

Straws     390 

Welsh  rarebit  27,400,411 


596 


INDEX— CLASS  B,  I. 


CLASS  B— VEGETABLE  FOOD. 


BREAKFAST         AND        LUNCHEON 
BREADS—  Page 

Bannocks    140 

Egg    222 

Oatmeal  174 

Belle  Calas  86 

Biscuit   81 

Arrowroot    569 

Baking  powder  (see  break- 
fast)         16 

Beaten   185 

Breakfast  116,  307,  548 

Brown  (see  graham)   57 

Cheese    516 

Cream 361 

Date    229 

Dropped   85,  211 

Fayal    479 

Finger    580 

Graham    57,  68,  355 

Luncheon  437 

Maryland    586 

Oatmeal   123 

Potato    413 

split  508 

Stuffed  (Bohemian  Kolace)  181 

Shredded    wheat 354,  485 

Shredded  wheat  and  peach 

meringues    377 

Shredded  wheat  with  to- 
matoes    385 

Thin 352 

Thirded    135 

Bread   balls    313,487 

Blackberry  360 

Breakfast   242 

Brown    143 

Boston  brown  129,174,331 

Buttermilk    52 

Coffee,  quick  411 

Egg    479 

English  lunch  115 

Entire   wheat    412 

Graham    9,112,403 

lunch  377 

steamed  60 

Indian,    steamed    103 

Milk    ^..514 

Owendaw   9 

Perfect     582 

Pulled  51 

Rice    156,  247 

Rye    180 

Sticks    70,310 

Steamed  stale   543 

Swedish   11 

Thirded   318 

Togus    27 

Whole  wheat  562 

Buchtels,   Bohemian   433 

Buns,   Bicycle   292 

Cocoanut    575 

Currant     139 

English    176 

Entire  wheat  276 

Hot  cross  159 


BREADS,   ETC.— Continued.  Page 

Buns,   Rice  270 

Spanish    481 

Cake,  Breakfast  fruit  206,543 

Cinnamon  204 

Coffee  556 

French    545 

German    155,  169 

quick   190 

Corn   (raised) 551 

thin    532 

Lunch    91 

Roll   breakfast    450 

Swedish   157 

Yorkshire   ' 501 

Cakes,  Berry   146 

Blueberry    331 

Buckwheat    18 

Buckwheat  (old  style) 586 

Corn    36 

Corn  batter  506 

Curly    374 

Graham   200 

Green  corn   367 

Green  pea 235 

Hominy  drop  48 

Rice   112,  154 

Cornbread    470 

Delicate    458 

Egg    394 

Great  aunt 308 

Hot    153,  369 

Raised    223 

Soft    14t 

Spoon,    Maryland 515 

Southern    128,  418,  468 

Steamed    19 

Corn  dodgers    88 

Southern    507 

Crackers,   Breakfast  (baked) 249 

Crisped   214 

Hot  buttered    454,  528 

Graham  496 

Cracknels  251 

Crisps,   Whole  wheat 282 

Croutons    J86,  268 

Crullers,  English  (see  crumpets).  131 

Crumpets  346 

English 131 

Hominy    553 

London   318 

Sweet    75 

Flannel  cakes  134 

raised    580 

Flapjacks  393 

Cornmeal    40 

Fritters,    Cream    115 

Snow    51 

Gems,  Apple  561 

Arena    320 

Date    68 

English  breakfast   284 

Gluten    214 

Graham  187,  287,  370 

Oatmeal    230,  437,  539 

Wheat    371 


INDEX— CLASS  B,  I. 


597 


Page 
BREADS,  ETC.— Continued. 

Gems,   Whole  Wheat 382 

Griddle  Cakes,  Crushed  wheat —    64 

Foam    547 

Graham   461 

Green  corn   420 

Hominy    291,  508 

Indian    295 

Potato  33 

Rice     447 

Squash  32 

Wheat  151,  255 

Johnny   cake,  Apple 6 

Jolly  boys ^5 

Loaf,  Currant,  English  81 

Marguerites    ■•••  531 

Muffins   142,  400 

Bread-sponge    358 

Cerealine    79 

Chicago    208 

Corn    13,  55 

and  rice   440 

(delicious)    73 

Cornmeal    348 

Fried  57 

English    120,187 

Entire  wheat  53 

Fruit  corn    106 

Graham    67 

Hominy    107,529 

Honey  119 

Hygienic    407 

Kinsley's  ^*^ 

Oatmeal   431,  486 

Pauline    147 

Rice    38,294 

Rye    ^^ 

Salem    304 

Sweet » 149 

Toasted    ^^% 

Velvet    566 

Wheat    220 

Wheatlet  245 

White   44 

Whole   wheat 490 

Yeast   raised    130 

Mush  croquettes  'awWo 

Mush,  fried  ^'^^  ooq 

Ojalda    ^J° 

Pain  perdu   (see  French  toast)...  235 

Pancakes,  Bread   467 

Colonial   266 

Cornmeal    24 

French   359 

Potato 439 

Southern     340 

Peculiars ••••  344 

Pone,    Southern  corn    416,  45^ 

Popovers    45,  397 

Proverbs    142 

Pudding,  corn  74 

Puffs,  Bread  15^ 

Cornmeal    427 

Graham    70,392 

Rye   425 

Whole  wheat •••••  o04 


Page 
BREADS,   ETC.— Continued. 

Puffs,    Yankee    280 

Yeast 272 

Rice  crusts   214 

Rolls   310 

Berry    330 

Berry    (baked)    37,  291,  319 

Breakfast  265 

(warm)  287 

Butter    443 

Chicago   425 

Coffee  316 

Egg    37 

Hot    ^46 

Kentucky    482.  574 

Lady  Washington  340 

Light     168,333 

Lunch  166,195 

Parker   House    326 

(unfermented)  354 

Scotch   (hot)    519 

Spoon    570 

Swedish     189 

Vienna 82,294 

Rusks  (see  buns)    

Rusks,    Potato    561 

Scones,   Buttermilk   258 

Hot    178 

Scotch    465 

Shortbread,  Scotch  22 

Short  cake    89 

Breakfast   58 

Scotch    477 

Spanish    206 

Singing  hinney    ••••  103 

Tea   cakes    '  lH 

Tea  cakes.   Berry   ^67 

Toast  534 

Apple    78 

Bohemian  ^^ 

Buttered    387,  519 

■  Cheese 522 

Cheese  cream  443 

Cracker    48 

Cream    261 

Deviled    ^72,  574 

French   • 235 

Soft    83 

Whole  wheat   bread    335 

Top  knots  396 

Turk's   cap   172 

Wafers    '^W  fZ 

Waffles   23,  324 

Baked  Southern  278 

Cream    199 

Hominy  (raised)  30 

Indian     164,429 

Rice   76,  160 

Southern    92 

SANDWICHES— 

Sandwiches,  Banana    4J8 

Bean   399 

Brown   bread 

44,   244,   342,  467 
Celery   455 


598 


INDEX— CLASS  B,  I-III. 


Page 
SANDWICHES— Continued. 

Sandwiches,    Cheese 263,    364,526 

and   celery 398 

Brown  bread    44,  244 

Cheese   263 

Cottage  cheese  261 

Date    93 

Fig    567 

Fish    513 

Ham   396 

and   eggs   440 

Lettuce   (salad)    220 

Olive  square 40 

Peanut  35 

Potatoes  and  ham  ,.  579 

rolls    563 

Salted   walnut    392 

Sardine    304 

Sea  foam  509 

Swiss  320 

Tartare    75 

Walnut   167 

HOMINY— 

Hominy  and  meat  261 

croquettes.... 37,  135,  276,  346 

MACARONI— 

A   meal   in    itself 275 

Macaroni  a   I'ltalienne   572 

a  la  Riccadonna 559 

Baked  366 

Bechamel  120 

Croquettes  of  ...165,  223,  242 

in  cheese  shell   101 

rare-bit   452 

Scalloped  with  mutton.    32 

(special)    175 

Steamed    184 

Tufts    195 

with    apricots    13 

butter   564 

Noodle    pudding     181 

Spaghetti  with   cream  sauce    43 

and   cheese    Romaine.    93 
Italian   style    253 

RICE— 

Rice     181,  265 

a  la  Turk   386 

and    cheese    491 

balls    192 

Boiled    421 

a  la  Creole    94 

Casserole   of,   and  meat    196 

Croquettes    138,  276 

Curry    534 

Cutlets     123 

par    excellence    229 

with  tomato  sauce   329 

Turkish   pilaf    533 

PORRIDGES— 

Avena,    rolled    130 

Barley    344 

Brewis    249 


FdrSd 

PORRIDGES— Continued. 
Brewis,  Brown  bread  or  graham 

170,  569 

Cerealine  flakes    338 

Cereal   with   fruit   327 

Cracked  wheat  479 

Farina    136 

molds    304 

Farinose  308 

Flummery    269 

Germea    148 

Graham  Jelly   227 

Grits   171 

Fried  104,  137 

flakes   531 

porridge    78,  468 

Mush,  cornmeal,   white   133 

Graham   381 

fried    196 

fruit    56 

Velvet    155 

Wheat  germ  meal  562 

Nudavene  flakes  543 

Oatmeal    11 

Baked    164 

blanc  mange   198 

croquettes    317 

with   chopped  dates  ....  101 

Porridge,  Graham   298 

Milk    6 

Quaker    oats    498 

blanc  mange   105 

Rice    265,  501 

Boiled    28 

Farmei*s'    552 

par  excellence   229 

Steamed    481 

Tapioca   milk    178 

Wheat,    boiled    85 

flakes,  iced   278 

Wheatall    207 

Wheatlet  with  dates  513 

White   pot 120 

POTATOES— 

Potato  a  la  creme    576 

a  la  neige   (see  snow  po- 
tatoes.) 

a  la  royale    241 

a  I'ltalienne     226 

a  la  Maryland    69 

a  la  Parisienne    97 

au  gratin   171 

Baked    519 

creamed    417 

savory    484 

sliced    44 

balls    480 

Breakfast    416 

Broiled 198,   219,   404,  533 

Browned 100,    133,   150,  365 

cakea    418 

Chateau    18 

Chateaubriand    253 

chips,   Saratoga  99 

Cones  and  pyramids .......    12 


INDEX— CLASS  B,  III. 


599 


Page 
POTATOES— Continued. 

Potato  cream    398 

Creamed 32,    153,  270 

with  cheese   460 

croquettes    214 

Rice  and  105 

Curled  (see  ribbon) 

Delmonico     389 

dice   151 

drops    243 

Duchesse    137,  516 

Flaked    307 

Fried,   Dutch    189 

whole,   cold  boiled  255 

fritters    411 

Golden   228 

Hashed    476 

and    browned... 17,  445 

Hillocks    41 

Hollandaise  120 

in  half  shell  283 

Kentucky  18 

Klosse    312 

London    62 

Luncheon    30,  475 

Lyonnaise    

166,  247,  461,  545,  569 

Maitre  d'hotel   384 

Mangle  76 

Mashed    256 

browned   163 

southern   395 

Minced    182 

and  corn  116 

New 264,  349 

(sauce   Bechamel)    . .  286 

Omelet— no  eggs  57 

Patties  (see  balls) 

Princess    117 

Puff    129,    178,  277 

finger    357 

Queen   109 

Pyramids   312 

Quirled,    brown    316 

Radnor  (see  scalloped) 

Ribbon    (ringed)    222 

Riced    221 

Rissoles    431 

Sacked  134 

Saute    (sweet   and   Irish) . .  422 

Scalloped    208 

Scallops    280 

Scones    40 

Snow    199,  231 

Souffle 108,   265,  442 

Stewed    310 

Sticks    192 

Stuffed   201,  409 

Timbale     167 

Toasted     120 

Vienna   or   Viennoise.  .362,  573 

Whipped   171 

White   142 

Sweet  Potatoes- 
Sweet    potatoes    46,563 

a  la  Creole   415 


Page 
POTATOES— Continued. 

Sweet  Potatoes  a  la  Province  ...  179 

and  molasses 471 

Baked    337 

with  sugar  and 

butter  380 

Chips    69 

Croquettes    ...157,  362 

Fried    92 

Pate     521 

Points    75 

Puffs    425 

Saute   (sweet  and 

Irish)    422 

Scalloped.. 92,  469,  532 
Steamed   296 

VEGETABLES— 

Artichokes,    Boiled    543 

with    sauce    124 

Asparagus    230 

creamed    215 

on  toast   221 

en  canape  212 

in    ambush   200 

with    eggs    249 

Beans,    Baked    (see    pork,    ham, 
sausages). 

French    62 

Frizzled    444 

Green — maitre   d'hotel    . . .  281 

(on  toast)   428 

Lima    41 

polenta    86,  205 

Stewed,    lima    480 

String,   French  way   564 

(parsley   sauce)    ...  259 

Wax  250,  274,  317 

Beets   143.   351 

French    332 

Fried    354 

Pickled    321 

Cabbage  a  la  Francaise 493 

Baked    396 

Cold  slaw  (see  salad) 

Creamed    118,    343 

hearts  and  peas   21 

Heidelberg    81 

Hot  slaw    36,    64 

Ladies'    364 

Minced     411 

Red    439 

Smothered  179 

Carrots— 

and   green   peas    389 

creamed    339 

Cauliflower    401,  224 

au  gratin  271 

Baked    326 

baked  (with  cheese)  . .  496 

in  ambush  353 

Scalloped    360 

with   dressing   256,  526 

Celery    and    carrots 473 

in   sauce   17 

Stewed  432 


600 


INDEX— CLASS  B,  III-IV. 


Page 
VEGETABLES— Continued. 

Celery,  with  white  sauce  335 

Chestnut  croquettes   537 

Corn,    Baked    143 

boiled   (green)    334 

cake  (green)   390 

drops    193 

fritters    422 

Hulled   (creamed)    282 

oysters    323,  449 

pudding    328,391 

Scalloped    168 

Stewed   (green)   299 

Succotash  156,  378,  410 

timbales,   392 

Winter  Succotash  58 

Cowslips   greens  226 

Cucumber,    Baked    379 

Fried     246 

fritters    306 

Stewed    399 

Stuffed    453,473 

with   French   dressing  248 

Egg-plant    449 

Baked,    in    bread    crumbs..  426 

Baked,    with    cheese    402,408 

French   style   315 

Fried    194 

fritters 283 

Stuffed    309,  368 

Mushrooms,   Baked   499 

Fried     511 

Stewed    476 

Okra 373 

and  tomatoes   (scalloped)...  434 

Stewed    350 

Stewed   with   tomatoes    469 

Onions,   Creamed    167 

pie  or  ormoloo  144 

Roast   564,  569 

Spring,   on  toast   227 

Stewed,  young    235 

Stuffed    581 

Oyster  plant  (see  salsify) 206 

Parsnips   a   la  mode 16 

balls    118 

Buttered    82 

Creamed    61 

fried  in  molasses   27 

fritters    58,87 

Rich     140 

Scalloped    65 

Stewed    587 

Peas  (green)  242,  349 

Creamed    288 

cream    dressing   260 

French    193,  279 

in  cases   263 

on   toast   60 

pudding  26 

Pepper  Stuffed  a  la  Champlain..  568 

Salsify  (see  Oyster  plant)   172 

Baked    31 

cakes    127 

croquettes    161 

Fried   69 


Page 
VEGETABLES— Continued. 

Salsify  fritters 524 

scalloped   460 

Spinach    487 

a  la   creme   205 

French   style    548 

German        style  (see 

French) 

Minced  188 

Souffle    222 

with   eggs   231 

Squash- 
Baked  513 

Creamed    530 

Grated    522         ^ 

Scalloped    85        M 

Stuffed   308 

Summer   294,319 

(fried)   446 

Tomatoes,  Baked  63 

Deviled  307 

Farci    320 

Fried.    325,  343,  359,  362,  447 

Fried  (green)   489,500 

with   cream    302 

with   maccaroni   71 

Scalloped  110,  540 

Stewed    449 

Stewed   (green)    477 

Stuffed  319,  386,  459 

Turnips   216 

a  la  creme  552 

dried    88 

Piedmont    573 

Vegetables  au  gratin  374 

Vegetable    oysters    561 

Vegetables,    Ragout   of    314 

CAKE    AND    CAKES— 

Cake,    Almond 407 

Angels'  food  237 

Apple,  Dutch   532 

Blackberry  jam   510 

Caramel,  and  filling 487,  573 

Chocolate,    and   filling    203 

cream    538 

Citron    386 

Cocoanut    268 

and  raisin(cream 

filling)    233 

Coffee    125 

Columbia    517 

Corn  Starch  454 

Delicate    147,284,383 

Dover    405 

Easter    161 

Election   308 

Fig    345 

California   511 

Fruit,    Coffee    45 

Fruit  Albany   125 

Gentleman's  favorite   155 

Geranium     267 

Ginger    362 

Gold    236 

Graham    50 


INDEX— CLASS  B,  IV-V. 


601 


Page 
CAKE  AND  CAKES— Continued. 

Cake,  Harlequin  113 

Honey   294 

(tea)   450 

Lady   246 

Layer,  white    400 

Lemon   sponge    446 

Loaf,  white  379 

Luncheon    516 

Lunch    91 

Minute  Ginger  133 

Marshmallow  170 

Mother's    27 

One  egg  318 

One  egg  lunch  135 

Peach    416 

Plain  463 

Pound    210 

Ribbon    534 

Roll  jelly 457 

Sea  foam   274 

Silver  and  gold   321 

Spice    23 

Sponge   100,129,138,343,371 

Easy    337 

Perfection    279 

Never    fail    364 

Steamed  with  jam..  162 

Velvet  418 

Sunshine    264,497 

Thumb    252 

Watermelon    491 

White    9 

Cakes,  Afternoon,  Italian   64 

Anise  35 

Bachelor's   buttons    285 

Chess,   Old  Virginia  341 

Feather    .....36,357 

Macaroon    Ill 

Marshmallow   428 

Molasses    drop    489 

Savoy   320 

Small     322 

Almond    425 

Snow   137 

Sugar    69 

Tea  117,  432 

Tea,  berry  367 

Velvet    357 

Viennois    15 

Chocolate  tartlets  565 

Cocoanut   flakes    24 

Comfits    211 

Cookies    290 

Chocolate  fruit  174 

Cream    308 

Favorite    246 

Fruit    144,  205 

Ginger    274 

Hermit   396 

Kindergarten   235 

Molasses    497 

of    1812 153 

Peanut    444 

Spiced   313 

Sugar    46 


Page 
CAKE  AND  CAKES— Continued. 

Corn-starch    puffs    151 

Cream  puffs  203,  543 

Crullers    130,  151,  240 

Doughnuts   62,  99,  479,  522 

raised    527 

Fruit  pinwheels  58 

GiNGJE  REREAD— 

Gingerbread    20,  72,  322 

Fairy 48 

Hot    127 

Soft  67,  388 

(warm)    355 

Sponge  149 

Sweet    505 

Warm   366,   423 

Warren    255 

White   191. 

World's  Fair 569' 

Jumbles    214,  421 

Plantation    565 

Kuchen    182 

Kuchen  Leb'   96 

Lady  fingers  263 

Sponge  drops  197 

Tarts,  Sand  475 

Trifles    244 

Vanities    60 

Wafers,  Chocolate 224,334 

Molasses    240 

Sweet    327 

Walnut    50,73 

Yolk  rings  180 

ICINGS— 

Glace  icing  for  sponge  cake  129 

Chocolate  cream  frosting  321 

DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINGS— 

Apple  flip-flaps   417 

Apple    John     71,401 

Apple  pot  pie  (Maple  Syrup)   77 

Apple  Snow   (custard)   59 

Blanc-Mange 150 

Almond   32 

Cherry    348 

Chocolate   10 

Fruit    86,  242 

Sea-moss  343 

Boston  cream  pie 21 

Brown  Betty  451 

Cake  roly-poly 177 

Charlotte,  Apple   399 

Blackberry    337 

Charlotte  de  pomme  204 

Orange    50,122,197 

Peach    325 

Rhubarb    188 

Children's  favorite  dessert  540 

Cobbler,   Blackberry   329 

Peach    419,  474 

New  peach  361 

Colonial  hats  193 

Compote,  Apple   166 

Filled  date  498 

Fruit   556 


602 


INDEX— CLASS  B,  V. 


Page 
DESSERTS,  PUDDINGS— Continued. 

Compote,    Gooseberries   280,  285 

Orange   172 

Peacli    384 

(baked)  480 

Pears    462 

Cream   Almond    224 

Almond  velvet 164 

Apple     434,564 

Banana     144,246 

Bavarian    HI 

Boulie   397 

Canary  (and  sauce) 554 

Chocolate    147,290 

Egg    137 

Fruit    421 

Peach    139,458 

leche   347 

Pineapple,  Bavarian  233 

Raspberry    286 

Sago,   Strawberry   sauce..  277 

Strawberry  212,  271 

Swiss     438 

Tapioca    232 

Creamed  Apple  tart  148 

Cup  rice  210 

Currant  paste   34J 

Custard   96 

Banana   4d0 

Caramel   394 

Cheese    49 

Chocolate   273 

Corn-starch    466 

Cup 10 

Frozen  237,326 

Maple    491 

Milk    311 

Peach   465 

Pineapple  (frozen)   267 

Pumpkin     542 

Raspberry    279 

Rennet    471 

Rhubarb   260 

Rice   128 

Sponge   363 

Dainty  dessert  63,  191 

Delicate  dish   173 

Dessert,  A  new  203 

Devonshire    cream    352 

Dumplings,  Apple  395 

(boiled)    571 

Currant  104 

Peach    356 

Rhubarb    218 

Float,   Apple    378 

Banana    43,273,526 

Orange     132 

Strawberry    69 

Floating   island    127 

Foam,   Peach   229 

Raspberry  320 

Folly   235 

Fritters,    Apple   9,88,496 

Apricot    30 

Cheese    494,  504,  555 

Corn-starch  488 


DESSERTS,  PUDDINGS— Continued. 

Fritters,   Japanese    300 

Jelly    394,462 

Cake    201 

Pineapple    238,  275 

Rhubarb    207 

Spanish   172 

Frosted   rice    206 

Gooseberry  fool  270 

Hopple  Popple   184 

Hulnah    35 

Ice,  Ginger  water  309 

Grape    452 

Lemon    391 

Peach  water  408 

Ice  cream.  Banana  379 

Raspberry  and  currant  299 

Strawberry    296 

Imperial  rice  190 

Jelly,   Astrachan  382 

Buttercup    538 

Cider    479 

Coffee    (whipped   cream)138,  208 

Fruit   142,  178 

Lemon    220 

Orange   98,  156 

Red  pepper   494 

Rice    102 

.  Tea 59 

Jellied   Apples    49, 144,  544 

Grapes 441 

Jenny    Linda    133 

Junket    (see    Slip) 113,239,350,472 

Lemon  honey   353 

Meringues  186 

Meringue,   Corn   starch    215 

Cranberry    557 

Frozen   404 

Peach   368 

Rice   179 

Strawberry    235 

Moonshine    216,  392 

Neapolitainoes    209 

Orange  roly-poly  470 

Pandowdy    85 

Peach  Ambrosia  468 

Delight    382 

flummery    463 

Snow-drift  (and  sauce)  —    42 

Pie-plant  birds'   nest   249 

Plum  pudding  croquettes 65 

Prunes,  Moulded  575 

Prune  Whip  557 

Pudding  a  la  belle 583 

Amber    141,  576 

Apple    61,  473,  553 

batter    216 

meringue    110 

Sago  127 

Tapioca     54,  98 

Baked  Apple  459,  483 

Baltimore  6!) 

Banana   26tj 

Blackberry   (sauce)    345 

Bread    430 

and   prune   439 


INDEX— CLASS  B,  V. 


603 


Page 
DESSERTS,  PUDDINGS— Continued. 

Pudding,  Brown   (with  sauce) 97 

Cabinet    481,533 

Cake    143 

Caramel  124 

Tapioca    169,485 

Chocolate   373 

cream   442 

Christmas  (foam  sauce)..  581  j 

Clarence   12 

Corn-starch    330 

Cream   of  rice    46,565 

Currant    317 

Dainty  little  121 

Dandy    221 

Danish   94 

Date 56 

Deed  suet 364 

Delmonico    231 

Dried  peach 29 

Fig   (egg   sauce).. 546,  559,  582 

French  puff   510 

Frost   201 

Frosted  lemon    16 

Fruit   406 

(Steamed)    550 

Gingerbread    and    sauce.    26 
Golden   (custard  sauce).. 

80,  552 

Graham   585 

fruit    (sauce). 52,  226 

Harvard    499 

Health  plum   90 

Ice  7 

Indian  (boiled)  560 

Jam    79 

King  Williams'  555 

Lemon  (with  sauce)  508 

Little  strawberry   222 

Marguerite     301 

Mock  snow   152 

Mother's   surprise 36 

Mrs.   Thompson's  carrot.  478 

Nantucket   38 

Nesselrode    572 

Nottingham  523 

Nut    522 

Orange    159,  505,  524 

meringue    350 

Paradise    495 

Peach    22,444 

Peach  cottage  118 

Pineapple    469 

Prune    87 

Prune   loaf    34 

Queen  of  241,341 

Quince    535 

Rennet  549 

Rice  and  apple  393 

Sago  meringue  293 

Simple  fruit 158 

S.now    96,380 

Southern  bread  17 

Spanish  fruit   476 

Sponge    45,  487 

Steamed  batter  131 


Page 
DESSERTS,  PUDDINGS— Continued. 

Pudding,  Steamed  blueberry 410 

Strawberry  tapioca   250 

Suet,   fruit  163 

Tapioca    92 

Thanksgiving  plum  568 

Puffs,  Banana  165 

Jam    441 

Quince    514 

White    199 

Quince  delight  516 

Quince    snow    493 

Rice  and  strawberry  dressing 263 

Rice  taffle  511 

Roll,  Apple  (and  sauce) 20 

Cherry   306 

Plum   74 

Royal  George  (Bavarian  sauce)..    75 

Sherbet,  Coffee  437 

Currant  323 

Grape    464 

Lemon    262 

Orange    28,    336 

Pineapple    248,  415 

Strawberry  256,  274 

Wild  Cerry  and  Almond  581 

Short-cake,  Banana  370,  452 

Cranberry   19,561 

Orange    521 

Peach    402,574 

Plum  (cream  sauce).  436 

Prune   72 

Quince   520 

Raspberry    302 

Strawberry    .  .114,  248,  265 
sweet    ...  298 
Shredded   Pineapple    (see    Fruits) 

Slip  (see  junket)  37 

Snow-balls    (with   cream) 305,  480 

Snow-balls,    Peach    422 

Souffle  and  sauce  47 

Chocolate    566 

Farina       (currant        jelly 

sauce)    584 

Frozen    376 

Peach    207 

^  Prune 197,  460 

Quince    512 

Sponge,    Blackberry    355 

Lemon    432 

Peach 104,  411 

Pineapple   294 

Prune    540 

Strawberry  291,  262 

Strawberries  in  snow  244 

Strawberry  pyramid  251 

Stuffed   prunes   122 

Surprise   dessert    175 

Syllabub    125 

Timbales  and  preserved  strawber- 
ries       ^ 

Trifle  530 

Apple    516 

Easter    161 

Peach    428 

Vanilla  snow  eggs  106 


604 


INDEX— CLASS  B,  V-VII. 


Page 

PIE— 

Florendine,   or  fruit  tarts   415 

Apple    105,  354,  456 

crust    307 

custard  129,  390 

English    24 

florendine    288 

Green  Governor  359 

Meringue    563 

New  England 518 

Banana    465 

mock   100 

French  375 

Chocolate    14,  70 

Cocoanut  489,  501 

Cranberry  tart  213 

Currant    321 

Date    89 

Lemon  cream  67 

custard    115 

sliced   228 

Mince    537 

Orange    136 

Peach    459 

Pieplant  meringue   182 

Prune   cream    31 

Prune    39 

Pumpkin   538,  587 

Silver   154 

Strawberry    253 

Tarts,  Apple  493 

Cherry   267 

Currant  283 

Damson   431 

Fruit    415 

Gooseberry  263 

Grape  449 

New  England  fire  cakes  ...  143 

Peach   (creamed)    58 

Polish   (tartlets)    23 

Raspberry  and  currant 281 

(creamed)    314 

FRUIT— 

Apples,    Baked    28,55,547 

with    hot   sauce. .  508 

lemon    531 

Boiled   506,  561 

Browned  473 

Buttered   553 

Foamed     570 

Fried    23,394,442,457 

Iced  50,  158,  213 

sauce    67,342,423 

creamed    369 

fried    70 

lemon    30 

(old  fashioned)   84 

orange    101 

Steamed     390 

Stewed     145 

Apricots,   Stewed  dried   196 

Stewed     497 

Bananas,  Acidulated  139 

Baked    39,  204,  407 

Fried    397 


FRUIT— Continued. 

Bananas,   Frozen   328 

with  currant  juice  319 

orange  juice   516 

Berries,   Barberries  324 

Berries   383 

Blackberries,    sugared. ..  356 

Blueberries    358 

Huckleberries  with 

crackers  and  cream 367 

Raspberries  and  cream..  351 

Cherries    293 

au  natural 338 

iced 268 

stewed    264,275 

pitted   76 

Currants,  Crushed   24 

Iced    323 

Dates  in  cream  506 

Figs  and  dates 64 

in   cream    492 

Fruit,  Crystallized  283 

Fruits,  macedoine   374 

mixed  and  cantelopes   ....  453 

Gooseberries,    stewed    276 

Grapes     375,  405,  443 

in   syrup    97 

jellied    441 

Melons    327 

Cantelope    337,377 

Snow   watermelon    387 

Watermelon  diamonds  . . .  394 

Oranges  and  apples,  sliced  567 

Oranges  and   strawberries   230 

Nectared   540 

Peach  and  prune  sauce  40 

Peaches,  Fried  467 

Frozen   389,  424,  446 

served  whole  342 

Pears,   Baked   407,471 

Stewed    427 

dried   149 

Pieplant  (see  rhubarb) 

PRESERVES— 

Ginger  pears    433 

Jam,   Currant   283 

Date    25 

Fig    55 

Orange    242 

Raisin    78 

Jelly,  Apple   404 

baked    347 

Cranberry    534 

Green   grape    417 

Red  pepper   494 

Marmalade,   Grape  336 

Orange    173 

Pieplant    433 

Preserves,   Apple    501 

Pineapple    341 

Quince    481 

Tomato    475 

figs    513 

Pineapple    236 

Crystallized   246 


INDEX— CLASS  B,  VIMX. 


605 


Page 
PRE  SERVE  S— Continued. 

Pineapple,    Iced    259 

Mock  12 

Shredded  302 

Sliced    287 

Plums,   Stewed  439 

Prunelles,   Stewed   19 

Prunes   130 

Stewed    177,180 

Quinces,   Baked    458 

Rhubarb,   Baked    227,229 

Sauce    254 

Steamed  213 

Stewed  219 

Strawberries   262,  288 

Tutti-frutti   252 

CANDIES— 

Dates,    Creamed    8 

Stuffed   522 

Fruit   Glace    188 

Fudges  175 

Glace   Chestnuts    8 

Pineapple,    Crystallized    246 

Pralines    8 

SALADS— 

Salad 63,  426 

a  la  Columbine 328 

Apple    72,  145 

Asparagus    244 

(cold)  255 

Bean 88 

(green)    278 

(Lima)    481 

Beet 587 

Beet-root  and  onion  228 

Cabbage 339,  563 

(boiled  salad  dress- 
ing)     490 

(on  lettuce) 166 

Calves-brains    289 

Carrot    109 

Cauliflower   296 

Celery  (dressed)  444 

Celery-root    439 

Celery  and  Apple  401 

Celery   and   nut    550 

Cheese    154 

Chestnut,  golden  212 

Cod-fish  407 

Corn-beef   (cooked   dressing)  248 

Cottage-cheese    496 

Cucumber 290,  293,  350,  376 

(and   cream)    390 

Jelly    414 

vinaigrette    ...253,  373 

Delicate   (pork) 215 

Egg  265,  275 

Fish    253,  352 

(cold   boiled   a   la  vinai- 
grette)     187 

(and  chives)  164 

French  dressing 44,  72,  411 

Fruit    ....91,110,192,210,244,545 
Grandmother's    Greens 287 


Page 
SALADS— Continued. 

Salad,  Ham  (cream  dressing) 502 

Lettuce    185 

and  beet  209 

(cooked  dressing)..,  341 
(cream   dressing)...  439 
Mayonnaise    dress- 
ing     100 

with  perfect  dress- 
ing    332 

Lima  bean  481 

Macedoine    114  354 

Marguerite    433 

Mayonnaise  fish   132 

sauce    225 

white    (without  oil)       .  218 

Meat  domestic  dressing 267 

Mock  pineapple 577 

Normandy    (peas    with   wal- 
nuts)       39 

Orange  128,  133 

Oyster 59 

of  '76  305 

Pea  320,  322 

Pig's-feet    552 

Potato   67,  80,  162,  406 

(with  cold  fish)  355 

(with  cream  dress- 
ing)     484 

Salmon  161,  445 

Sardine    48,  51,  82 

Shrimp  mayonnaise   182 

Smelts  en  marinade  93 

Summer  201 

Sweet-bread 537 

Sweet-bread  and  cucumbers  230 

Sweet  potatoes 499 

Tomato  jelly  324,325 

Tomato    460 

Tongue  313 

Turnips   508 

Vegetable  330 

Waldorf    503 

"Walnut  and  watercress   7 

Watercress,  French  dressing  341 

Slaw,  Cold    295,391 

Tomatoes  dressed  individually....  316 
with  sauce 312 

PICKLES  AND  CATSUP— 

Apples,  Pickled  (sweet)  352 

Spiced    41,102,114 

Cabbage,  Pickled  (red) 439 

Cantalope,  Pickled  (sweet)   547 

Cucumbers  Pickled  298,  370,  463 

(ripe)    403 

(sweet)    99 

Currants,  Spiced  44 

French  pickles   305 

Mixed  pickles 457,  523 

Mustard  pickles  382,  484 

Onions,    Pickled    413 

Olives,  Stuffed  176 

Peaches,    Spiced   441 

Pears,  Sweet  pickled  466 

Tomato  pickles  308 


606 


INDEX— CLASS  B,  IX-XI. 


Page 
PICKLES,  CATSUP— Continued. 
CATSUP— 

Cucumber    496 

Grape  458 

BEVERAGES— 

Buttermilk    566 

Cherry  Nectar  295 

Chocolate    298 

American    36 

Iced    309 

Racahout  des  Arabes..  197 

Vienna   Ill,  586 

Cocoa,  Dutch   144,477 

Milled     174 

Shells   49 

Coffee  447,  471 

After  Dinner   335 

Army 587 

Cafe  au  lait 200,  414 

Crust    24 

German    532 

Shredded   cereal    335 

Vienia   321 

White    93 

Koumiss    281 

Milk,  Almond   147 

Malted    60 

Punch  without  liquor 398 

Sherbet 372 

Oatmeal  Nectar  229 

Water   249 

Orangeade    239 

Orange    tea    386 

Raspberry    vinegar    318 

Royal  spruce  beer  313 

Russian  tea  67,  252 

Shrub,    Mulberry    372 

Raspberry    360 

Tea   404,  548 

Iced    317,  423 

SAUCES— For  Puddings- 
Sauce    41,  52 

Apple   John    401 

Bavarian   75 

Blackberry   Pudding    346 

Blueberry  Pudding  410 

Bread    pudding    430 

Brown     26 

Brown    pudding    97 

Canary    cream    554 

Caramel    150,  216 

Cream   121,  163 

Currant    jelly    7,584 

Custard    59,    80 

Egg  (fig  pudding) 546 

Epicures'    533 

Foam    581 

Foaming    47,581 

Fruit     41 

Hard    20,118 

Hard    (fig  pudding) 559 

(Howard  pudding)  ...  499 
(Orange  pudding)  ...  524 


Page 
SAUCES— Continued. 

Sauce,  Hot  (baked  apples) 508 

Lemon    66,508,584 

For   white   puffs...  199 
Orange  roly-poly...  470 

Snow   pudding    381 

Strawberry    277 

Vinegar    560 

Whipped   cream    73 

Sirup,    maple    547 

Maple   sugar    77 

Quince   541 

White    sugar    214 

For  Fruits — 

Sauce,  apple  67,  423 

Apricot  and  fig 6 

Fruit    319 

Lemon   apple    30 

Old-fashioned  apple   84 

Orange  apple    101 

Peach  and  prune 40 

Pieplant    252 

For  fish  or  meat- 
Boiled  salad  dressing  490 

Cream  dressing   484,  502 

French   dressing    72,  446 

Gravy,  beef   150 

tongue    184 

Parsley  butter 399 

sauce    558 

Sauce,    baked    haddock 339 

Bechamel  123,438 

Bernaise   122 

Beurre   noir   420 

Bluefish    301 

Braized   beef    499 

Brown   (for  boneless  birds)  353 

Caper    43 

Celery    424 

Chili    87,  130,  434,  465 

Cider  for  ham 577 

Cream  187,  224 

Creole    253 

Cucumber    527 

East   Indian    (fried     mush- 
rooms)     511 

Egg   (for  mutton)    186 

Fish    154,  226 

Flemish    324 

for  bluefish   301 

for   calves'    brains 289 

for   eggs    455 

Giblet  gravy  (roast  goose).  580 

Hollandaise    120,  312,  323 

Horseradish    164,  404 

Italienne     578 

Lyonnaise    374 

Maitre   d'hotel    72 

Mayonnaise    100,  218,  225 

Meat  popovers   386 

Mexican   422 

Mint    209 

Mushroom    14,  457 

Mustard    54,525,535 

Onion    75,525 


INDEX—CLASS  B,  XL 


607 


Page 
SAUCES— Continued. 

Sauce,  Oyster  550 

Parmesan  cutlet 345 

Piquant   7,23,314 

Poulette    399 

Richmond  (oyster  pie) 488 

Tartars    183,389 

Tomato    65,89,184 

Tomato  sauce   with   onion.  265 

Tomato   sauce   for   veal 231 

Turkey    95 

Universale    172 

Vegetable   22 

Vinaigrette    188 

Walnut   (for  fish) 536 

White   sauce   132,  246 


Page 
MISCELLANEOUS— 

Almond  balls 540 

Browned     flour     for     thickening 

gravy    quickly    530 

Caramel  for  coloring 529 

Chestnut   filling   for   turkey 536 

Cornstarch    roux    174 

Hints    386 

How  to  prepare  the  Old  Dominion 

Dinner    395 

Note    391 

On    wild   plum 384 

Roast   chestnuts    537 

To  flavor  with  vanilla  549 

To    make   a   bouquette    of   sweet 

herbs    188 


F.  R.  JACKSON,  Manager.  TELEPHONE 

CHARLES  CREAMERY  CO., 


EXCLUSIVE   MAKERS   AND 
SELLERS    OF 


Charles  Creamery  Butter 

DEALERS    IN 

MILK,  CREAM,  BUTTERMILK  iliS. 

EGGS  FRESH  THE  YEAR  ROUND. 

4 

FAMILIES    IN    CITY    AND    SUBURBS    SUPPLIED. 

<f 

41    NORTH    STATE-ST.  nHirAGO 

313   THIRTY-FIFTH-ST.  V^HH^AO^. 


Nothing  in  This  World 

Is  so  cheap  as  a  newspaper,  whether  it  be  measured 
by  the  cost  of  its  production  or  by  its  value  to  the 
consumer.  We  are  talking*  about  an  American,  metro- 
politan  daily  paper  of  the  first  class  like  The  Chicago 
Record.  It's  so  cheap  and  so  good  you  can't  afford 
in  this  day  of  progress  to  be  without  it.  There  are 
other  papers  possibly  as  good,  but  none  better,  and 
none  just  like  it.  It  prints  all  the  real  news  of  the 
world— the  news  you  care  for — every  day,  and  prints 
it  in  the  shortest  possible  space.  You  can  read  The 
Chicago  Record  and  do  a  day's  work  too.  It  is 
an  independent  paper  and  gives  all  political  news  free 
from  the  taint  of  party  bias.  In  a  word — it's  a  com- 
plete, condensed,  clean,  honest  family  newspaper,  and 
it  has  the  largest  morning  circulation  in  Chicago  or 
the  west— over  200,000  a  day. 

Prof.  J.  T.  Hatfield  of  the  Northwestern  Uni- 
versity says: 

''The  Chicago  Record  comes  as  near 
being  the  ideal  daily  journal  as  we  are  for 
some  time  likely  to  find  on  these  mortal 
shores" 

Sold  by  newsdealers  everywhere,  and  subscrip- 
tions received  by  all  postmasters.  Address  The 
Chicago  Record,  181  Madison-st. 


One  Advantage 

Of  Wit  in  a  great  city  is  the  ease  with  which  our  every- 
day wants  may  be  supplied.  .  .  .  This  is  most  readily 
done  by  a  "Want"  ad.  inserted  in  a  daily  newspaper  of 
large  circulation. 

The  Chicago  Record 

SELLS  EACH  DAY  MORE  THAN  200,000  COPIES 

Ii  is  the  largest — very  much  the  largest— morning  circula- 
tion in  Chicago;  in  fact,  it  is  larger  than  that  of  any  other  two 
mornmg  papers,  probably  larger  than  that  of  any  three  in  Chicago.  A 
common  estimate  is  that  each  copy  of  a  good  daily  family  paper  has 
an  average  of  three  readers;  it  is  probably  a  reasonable  approximation 
that  the  circle  of  daily  readers  of  THE  RECORD  includes  six  hundred 
thousand  people.  Hundreds  of  stories  of  "Wants"  are  told  to  this 
reading  circle.  From  two  to  three  pages  of  such  "want  ads"  are  pub- 
lished daily.  None  of  these  is  padded,  fictitious,  inserted  free  of  charge 
or  copied  from  other  papers  the  day  following  its  first  publication. 
As  these  advertisements  in  every  case  represent  a  genuine  want,  their 
value  is  greatly  increased  both  to  the  advertiser  and  the  reader. 

If  You  Wish  Help,  a  Situation, 

If  You  Wish  Boarders  or  Boarding, 

If  You  Desire  to  Rent  Rooms  or 

Have  Rooms  to  Rent,  These  advertisements  may  be  left 

To  Buy  or  Sell  Real  Estate,  at  the  office  of 

To  Buy  or  Sell  Horses,  Carriages, 

Bicycles,  Machinery, 

Store  and  Office  Fixtures, 

Household   Furniture     ...  181  MADISON=ST., 


The  Record, 


Then  insert  your  "want"  Or  at  any  one  of  its  branch  of- 

in  the   columns   of  THE  fices    scattered    throughout    the 

RECORD,   which    is  the  city,  where  the  charge  will  be  the 

great  morning  Directory  same  as  at  THE  RECORD  oftice. 

for  the  supply   of  those  Rates  Furnished  Promptly  by  Mall 

wants.  on  Application. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


(  }■' 


0  014  485  312  A  • 


m 
'W 


