Book 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT 


\  COLLECTION 


CHOICE 
RECEIPTS 


mm 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 


SELECTKD   AND   p:i)lTi:i)    HV 


rHE    GUILD-HOUSE    COMMITTEE 


ALL  SAINTS'  CATHEDRAL 


"  Know  o'-  "    'self  th3'  L^enius  must  depend. 
All  booi.  okery,  all  helps  of  art, 

All  critic  leaim         all  commenting'  notes, 
Are  vain,  if,  void  of  g-enius,  thou  wouldst  cook." 


ALBANY 

1898 


TWO  COPIES  l^tCttVEO 


TK  11^ 


^6^^ 


COPYRIGHT 

By  Fred'k  C.  Manning 


I 

pi 
(A 


To   rmc  HousicKRici'iCK.i  of  Albany 
THIS   LiTTLi:   Book   is   Kkspect- 

I'CLLV    DKDTCATKD. 


PREFACE. 

In  c«)ni]iilinj^  tliis  l)<K)k  no  attem|it  h;is  ])een  ninde  to  j^'ive  direc- 
tums  for  jirepariiijj;-  all  tliinj^^s  necessary  to  a  well-onlered  table, 
nor  ha\e  Li^'eneral  directions  for  c<K)l<ing- been  g-iven,  since  these  are 
iilready  to  be  foiiml  in  any  <j;"(K)d  c<K)ker3'  book.  Our  object  has 
been  to  sujiplement  the  standard  works  on  tliis  subject  bv  the 
jiddition  of  a  number  of  choice  antl  trieil  recei]its  collected  from 
various  sources  and  for  the  most  ]iai-t  not  otherwise  accessible  to 
the  ]>ublic.  We  take  tliis  o]iportunity  of  sincerely  thanking-  all 
friends  wlio  ha\e  generousU-  heljietl  us  in  collecting  and  ]>rinting- 
the  following  receipts. 


HOUSEHOLD  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


One  teaspoonful  equals  1  dr. 

One  dessert-spoonful  equals  2  teaspoonfuls  or  2  drs. 
One  table-spoonful  equals  2  dessert-spoonfuls  or  4  teasjioonfuls. 
Two  table-spoonfuls  equal  8  teaspoonfuls  or  1  oz. 
One  common  size  wine-g^lassful  equals  2  ozs.  or  '4  ^1. 
A  tea-cup  is  estimated  to  hold  4  fluid  ozs.  or  1  g'l. 
Ten  ordinary  sized  egg's  weigh  1  lb. 
vSoft  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  weighs  1  oz. 
One  qt.  of  sifted  flour,  well  heaped,  weighs  1  lb. 
One  pt.  of  best  brown  sugar  weighs  13  ozs. 
Two  tea-cupfuls,  level,  of  granulated  sugar  weigh  1  lb. 
Two  tea-cupfuls  of  soft  butter,  well  packed,  weigh  1  lb. 
One  and  y^  pt.  of  powdered  sugar  weighs  1  lb. 
Two  table-spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  or  flour  weigh  1  oz. 
One  table-spoonful  of  soft  butter,  well  rounded,  weighs  1  oz. 
One  pt.  heaped,  of  granulated  sugar  weighs  14  ozs. 
Two  and  '■<  tea-cupfuls,  level,  of  the  best    brown    sugar  weigh 
1  lb. 
Two  and  ^'4.  tea-cupfuls,  level,  of  powdered  sugar  weigh  1  lb. 
Miss  Parloa  says  one  generous  pt.    of  liquid  weighs  1  lb. 

LiouiD  measurp:. 

4  ozs.  equal 1  gi- 

■^  ffis.    "      1  pt. 

2  pts.     "      1  qt. 

4  qts.     "      1  jral. 


SOUPS 


"How  many  thiiig^s  by  season  seiisoned  are 
To  their  right  praise,  and  true  perfection." 

— Shakspeare. 

CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 
Wash  1  bundle  of  asparag^us,  cut  into  sinall  pieces  and  put  into 
a  saucepim,  with  1  pt.  of  boiling^  water.  Simmer  for  y^  of 
an  hour.  Remove  the  tips  with  a  fork,  press  the  remainder 
through  a  sieve,  saving  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled.  Scald 
1  qt.  of  milk,  rub  together  1  table-spoonful  of  butter  and  2  of  flour 
till  smooth.  Stir  this  into  the  scalded  milk,  till  it  thickens.  If 
it  should  lump  put  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  farina  boil- 
er, add  the  asparagus  and  waiter  pressed  through  the  sieve. 
Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  ^idd  the  asparagus  tips  and 
serve.  Cream  soups  should  be  served  as  soon  as  made,  for  if 
allowed  to  stand,  the  vegetable  separates  from  the  milk,  giving  it  a 
curdled  appearance. 

BLACK  BEAN  SOUP. 

Soak  1  pt.  of  black  beans  all  night.  Then  boil  in  lyi  qts. 
watcM-.  To  4  qts.  of  stock  (beef  flavored  with  vegetables)  add  the 
beans  (strained  through  a  sieve),  1  teaspoonful  cloves,  Yz  tea- 
spconful  cinnamon,  1  teaspccnful  pepper,  1  lemon  sliced,  4  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Just  before  serving,  add  forcemeat  biills,  1  glass 
port   wine   and  ^  glass  brandy  to  every  3  qts.  of  soup. 

FoKCKMKAT  Bai,ls. — Cook  veal  or  sweetbreads  till  tender,  chop 
very  fine,  with  3<3  suet  and  breadcrumbs,  a  very  little  onion,  pep- 
per and  salt.      Roll  in  j'olk  of  eggs  and  fry  in  lard. 

—  j)lrs.   I 'an  /\cnssc/arr. 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  FOR  SIX. 
Take  1  head  of  celery,  1  pt.  of  milk,  1  table-spoonful  flour,  1 
dessert-spoonful  butter,  larg-e  slice  of  onion.  Cut  the  celery  fine, 
stew  till  soft  in  1  pt.  water,  boil  onion  and  milk,  stir  in  the  flour, 
cook  10  minutes,  mash  celery  in  water  in  which  it  was  cooked,  add 
the  milk,  with  pepper  and  salt,  strain  and  serve.  It  improves 
this  to  add  1  cup  of  whipped  cream  when  in  the  tureen. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

Make  a  soup  of  a  knuckle  of  veal.     Boil  1%  hours.     To  1  qt.  of 

this  add  12  oysters,  season  with  mace  and  boil  up  once.     When 

ready  to  serve  stir  in  somie   milk  or    cream,  throw    toasted    bread 

crumbs  on  the  bottom  of  the  bowl  and   turn  the    soup   over    them. 

—Mrs.    Brinkcrhoff. 

GREEN  PEA-SOUP. 
Pour  2  qts.  of  cold  water  on  2  qts.  of  clean,  tender  pea-pods,  and 
boil  them  jA  an  hour.  Strain  the  water  over  1  qt.  and  1  g^i.  of 
shelled  peas,  add  half  an  onion  grated,  and  boil  till  tender.  Re- 
serve the  gill  of  peas  and  pass  the  rest  through  the  colander  with 
the  soup.  Add  3  table-spoonfuls  of  flour  rubbed  into  3  ozs.  butter, 
2)4.  spoonfuls  of  salt,  1  of  pepper,  }4.  pt.  of  cream  and  the  same  of 
milk.  Throw  in  the  gill  of  whole  peas,  boil  2  to  3  minutes  and 
serve.     This  makes  less  than  2  qts.  of  soup. 

SPINACH  SOUP. 

Carefully  pick  and  wash  2  lbs.  of  spinach.  Put  the 
leaves  into  a  large  pan  of  fast  boiling  water,  and  boil  for  5 
minutes.  Then  drain  off  all  the  water,  pressing  the  vegetables 
well.  Melt  1  oz.  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  add  %  oz.  of  flour, 
and  mix  smoothly.  Add  ^  pt.  of  milk,  and  the  same  of 
water,  stir  all  till  it  boils.  Then  put  in  the  spinach,  _^  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  jA  an  onion.  Put  on  the  lid  and  simmer 
till  the  spinach  is  soft.  Take  it  oil  the  fire,  and  rub  it  through  a 
hair  or  wire  sieve.     Rinse  out  the  saucepan,  put  back  the  spinach 

10 


sorrs 

add  sufficient  milk  to  make  it  as  thick  as  i^ood,  thick  cream. 
Reboil  and  season  carefully.  Add  2  table-spoonfuls  of  cream. 
Pour  into  a  hot  tureen.  Serve  with  savory  biscuits,  made  as 
follows  : 

Savokv  Biscuits. — Put  3  ozs.  of  flour  into  a  basin,  add  yi  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  1  oz.  of  g-rated  cheese.  Melt  1  ^4  ozs.  of  butter, 
and  stir  into  it  the  raw  yolk  of  1  egg".  Be  sure  the  butter  is  not 
hot,  or  you  will  fry  the  egg.  Make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the 
flour.  Pour  in  the  butter  and  egg,  and  make  all  into  a  smooth, 
stiff  paste.  Roll  it  out  one-third  of  an  inch  thick,  stamp  it  in 
crescent  shapes.  Bake  these  on  a  greased  tin,  in  a  slow  oven  for 
about  15  minutes. 

WHITE     SOUP    WITH    ALMONDS. 

Take  1  qt.  of  veal  jelly,  1  pt.  of  cream,  4  ozs.  of  sweet  almonds 
blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste,  with  a  little  water  to  prevent 
their  becoming  oilj^  2  ozs.  of  butter  rubbed  with  3  table-spoonfuls  of 
flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  2'A  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  )4 
teaspoonful  of  powdered  mace,  the  rind  of  a  lemon. 

Put  the  cream  over  boiling  water  with  the  lemon  rind,  lieat  the 
jell3%  and  pour  it  gradually  into  the  cream,  add  the  other  in- 
gredients, and  simmer  15  minutes.  Take  out  the  lemon  when  the 
.soup  is  sufficiently  flavored. 


FISH 


"All  fish  from  sea  or  shore, 
"Freshet  or  purling-  brook,  or  shell,  or  fin." — 3Iiltoti. 

A  YARMOUTH  RECEIPT  FOR  COOKING  BLOATERS. 
There  was  never  a  herring  spake  but  one,  and  he  said  "  Toast 
my  back  before  j'ou  toast  my  bone. ' ' 

MARYLAND  CHOWDER. 

Have  a  g^ood  sized  cod  or  haddock  cleaned  and  cut  into  pieces  of 
uniform  size. 

Take  2  lbs.  of  fish,-)^  lb.  of  water-crackers,  2  ozs.  of  butter,  1  pt. 
clams  or  oysters,  1  gi.  of  cream,  1  gi.  of  water,  1  onion  sliced,  1 
table-spoonful  of  salt,  yi  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  }4.  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mace,  J^  of  a  teaspoonful  of  Caj^enne  pepper. 

Put  the  water  in  a  saucepan  or  iron  pot,  put  in  the  onion, 
and  half  of  the  fish  skin  side  down,  sprinkle  over  it  half  the  salt, 
pepper,  etc.  Then  put  in  half  the  oysters  or  clams,  cover  with  half 
the  butter,  in  small  lumps  and  half  the  crackers;  then  the  rest  of 
the  fish,  oj'sters,  seasoning  and  crackers.  Pour  the  cream  over 
the  top  having  first  boiled  it.  Cover  closely  and  stew  for  j4  an 
hour.  Serve  on  a  platter.  If  the  chowder  is  too  dry  more  water 
may  be  added.     Dice  of  pork  give  a  good  flavor. 

NEW  ENGLAND  CLAM  CHOWDER. 
Blanch  y^  lt>.  of  fat,  salt  pork  in  hot  water,  drain  and  cut 
into  small  dice,  fry  brown  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  shred  in  a 
small  onion  and  brown  it.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  1  qt.  of 
well-washed,  thinly-sliced  potatoes,  1  large  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1 
small  teaspoonful    of   black  ■  pepper,  1  pt.   of  clam  juice,  1  qt.   of 

12 


FISH 

cold  water.  Replace  on  the  fire  and  boil  till  the  potatoes  are 
cooked.  Then  add  1  qt.  of  solid  clams,  having-  chopped  the  hard 
part.  Mix  gradually  and  smoothly  1  pt.  ofmilk  with  lyi  ozs.  of 
flour,  add  it,  let  the  whole  boil  up,  remove  from  the  fire  and  serve. 

SOFT   CLAMS  IN    CHAFING-DISH. 

Select  1  doz.  larg-e  Guilford  clams,  wash  thoroughly  and 
plunge  them  into  boiling- water  for  a  moment.  Drain  and  open 
them,  using  only  the  round,  plump  part.  Put  a  pat  of  butter  in  a 
chafing-dish,  and  when  quite  hot  add  a  dash  of  flour  and  a  pinch 
of  Cayenne.  Add  the  clams,  and  when  they  are  slightly  cooked 
1  gi.  of  light  sherry.  Cover  the  dish  and  simmer  5  minutes.  Serve 
on  toast. 

CODFISH. 

Take  1  bowl  of  picked  codfis'i,  2  of  peeled  potatoes  raw  and 
left  whole,  water  just  to  cover.  Boil  till  the  potatoes  are  thor- 
oughly done.  Drain  off  the  water  and  let  the  steam  evaporate. 
Beat  up  with  a  fork  till  very  light.  Serve  with  a  -drawn  butter 
gravy  with  chopped,  hard-boiled  eggs;  or  put  in  a  dish,  sprinkle 
bread  crumbs  over  tlie  top  and  bake  15  minutes. 

CODFISH  BALLS. 
Take  1  cup  of  shredded  fish,  not  soaked  or  scalded,  and  2  cups 
of  raw  potatoes,  cut  fine.  Put  potatoes  in  a  kettle  with  the  fish 
on  top,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  20  minutes  or  till 
potatoes  are  done.  Drain  off  the  water,  and  mash  in  the  same 
kettle.  Beat  till  very  light,  add  salt  if  necessary  and  1  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  1  beaten  q^^.  Shape 
with  a  spoon  and  ixy  in  deep  fat,  which  must  be  very  hot.  Take 
out  w'th  a  skimmer. 

CREAMED    CODFISH. 
Boil  the  codfish  and  pick  it  verj'   fine.      Have    milk    thoroughly 
heated  (not  boiled),  and  stir  into  it  till  perfectly  smooth  flour  and 

13 


CHOICE  R  R  Cli  IP  TS 

butter  well  mixed  tog-ether  in  a  spoon.      Then  put    in   the    codtisli 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  —  J/js.  Mari'iii. 

FAMOUS  NEW  ENGLAND  PREPARATION  OF  CODFISH. 

Soak  a  very  white,  salt  codfish  whole  for  2  or  3  hours.  When 
soft  enough  to  pull  apart,  shred  very  fine  and  put  in  a  bowl  of  cold 
water.  Let  it  stand  as  many  hours  longer.  Change  the  water 
once.  Take  of  pared  potatoes  twice  the  quantity  you  have  of  fish 
and  let  them  stand  3  hours  in  very  cold  water.  Use  mealy 
potatoes,  new  ones  will  not  answer.  Put  them  in  the  bottom  of  a 
3iorcelain  kettle,  and  throw  in  the  fish  after  thoroughl}'  draining 
through  the  colander.  Pour  over  enough  cold  water  to  cover,  and 
boil  till  the  potatoes  are  quite  cooked.  Then  throw  into  the  col- 
ander and  drain  off  every  particle  of  water.  Put  back  into  the 
kettle  over  the  stove  and  mash  together  till  quite  smooth.  Add 
gradually  1  lb.  of  butter  for  eight  medium  sized  potatoes  and  a 
small  fish.  Have  read}'  scalded  milk  and  throw  in  from  time  to 
time,  beating  first  with  a  masher  then  with  a  wooden  spoon 
till  the  mixture  is  like  potato  souffle.  Season  and  drop  lightlj' 
into  the  dish  when  ready  to  serve.        Never  pat  or  put  into  shape. 

HALIBUT  A  LA  CREME. 

Takel  lb.  boiled  halibut,  3  boiled  potatoes.  Remove  skin  and 
bones  from  fish  and  shred  it.  Mash  potatoes.  Mix  together  and 
season  with  a  dash  of  red  pepper  and  salt.  Butter  the  inside  of 
six  little  baking  dishes,  put  in  them  alternate  layers  of  the  mix- 
ture and  of  white  sauce  till  filled.  Coat  the  top  of  each  with  a 
beaten  &gg.  Put  theni  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  set  in  the 
oven  till  brown. 

White  Sauce. — Take  3  gis.  milk,  3  teaspoonfuls  butter,  yi, 
teaspoonful  fiour.  Boil  milk,  stir  butter  and  flour  together  in  a 
small  saucepan  till  they  bubble,  pour  on  quickly  the  boiling 
milk  stirring  well. — 3Iiss  Kinosbiirw  X.    }'.  Cifv. 

14 


FISH 

HAKKD     HALIBUT     ST?:AK    WITH     PUREE    OF     PEAS. 

W.-ii^li  and  dry  two  halibut  steaks,  butter  a  fish  sheet, 
lay  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  on  it.  Place  a  steak  on  the 
pork,  pour  lemon-juice  over  it  and  dust  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Ui])  oysters  (>2  pt.)  in  melted  butter  and  cracker  crumbs  and 
place  on  the  fish.  Lay  the  second  steak  over  the  oj-sters,  season 
as  before  and  put  slices  of  pork  on  the  top.  Bake  30  or  40  min- 
utes, bastinf,-- three  or  four  times  with  the  juice  in  the  pan  and  last- 
ly with  melted  butter.  Remove  pork  on  the  lop  and  cover  with 
buttered  crumbs.  Serve  when  the  crumbs  are  browned.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon  or  with  a  jniree  of  peas, 
and  Hollandaise  sauce. 

PiKKic  oi-  Pkas. — Mash  and  press  through  a  sieve  co<jked  peas, 
fresh,  canned  or  dried.  Put  the  puree  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire, 
add  sufficient  salt,  pejiper,  hot  milk  or  stock,  butter  and  sug^ar 
to  season  and  moisten  them.  When  thoroughly  heated  press 
thmugli    a    jiastry  bag  and  tube  around  the  fish  on  the  platter. 

CURRIED  HALIBUT. 
Take  3  lbs.  lialibut  steak  cut  quite  thin,  |i  an  onion,  1  table- 
^jKxmful  butter,  2  teaspcxjnfuls  currj'-powder,  juice  <jf  Yz  a 
lemon,  '^  teacupful  gravj-  or  soup  stock.  Shred  the  oniciii,  fry 
brown  in  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  .stir  in  the  currj'-powder. 
Cut  the  halibut  steak  into  pieces  about  3  inches  square,  removing 
the  skin  and  fat.  Lay  the  fish  in  the  saucepan,  with  the  curry- 
liowder,  onions,  and  butter,  pour  over  them  the  grav}',  let  all 
simmer  about  15  minutes.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon  just  be- 
fore serving. 

HALIBUT  TIMBALES   WITH  SHRIMP  SAUCE. 

.  Bone  and  skin  l',  lbs.  of  unc<xjked  halibut,  chop  or  pound    very 

fine,  then  rub  through  a  puree  sieve.     To  this  pulj)  add  y,    'i  cup 

of   thick    cream,    '4    of  a  cup  of  melted  butter,   1   teaspoonful  of 

lemon-juice.  1  teasjKKjnful  of  salt,  and  a    pinch  of  Cayenne.     Mix 

15 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

the  ingredients  together  thoroughly,  then  fold  into  the  mixture  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  5  eggs.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a  well-but- 
tered, half  pint  charlotte  mould,  and  six  or  eight  small  sized  moulds. 
Cover  the  moulds  with  a  buttered  paper,  set  them  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  the  centers  are  firm. 
Turn  from  the  moulds  on  to  a  hot  platter,  serve  with  shrimp  sauce 
and  garnish  the  tops  with  whole  shrimps  and  parsley. 

lobsterla  la  NEWBURG. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  shells  of  2  -good'  sized  and  freshly 
boiled  lobsters.  Cut  it  into  inch  pieces.  Place  it  in  the  chafing- 
dish  with  a  heaping  table-spoonful  of  very  good,  fresh  butter. 
Season  with  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  dash  of  red  pepper,  and  add 
2  medium-sized  sound  truffles  cut  into  small  dice-shaped  pieces. 
Cook  5  minutes.  Then  add  a  wine-glassful  of  good  Madeira 
wine.  D  Cook  3  minutes  more.  Beat  together  thoroughly  the  yolks 
of  3  eggs  and  ^  pt.  sweet  cream;  add  it  to  the  lobster  and  gently 
shuffle  till  it  thickens  well.     Serve  hot. 

LOBSTER  BISQUE. 

A  large  lobster,  \)/z  pts.  of  chicken  stock,  1  pt.  cream,  1  scant 
pt.  stale  bread  crumbs,  1  scant  table-spoonful  of  salt,  %  salt- 
spoonful  of  white  pepper,  a  dash  of  Cayenne,  1  bay  leaf,  a  sprig 
of  parsley,  blade  of  celery,  slice  of  onion,  slight  grating  of  nut- 
meg, 3  table-spoonfuls  of  butter  and  1  of  flour.  Cut  into  small 
pieces  the  tenderest  part  of  the  meat  from  the  claws,  pound  the  re- 
mainder to  a  [paste,  put  in  1  table-spoonfvil  of  butter,  6 of  the 
claws  and  the  coral  from  the  lobster,  and  potind.  Put  the  pounded 
meat  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  herbs  and  vegetiibles  and  half  the 
stock;  simmer  1  hour.  Do  not  boil.  Then  put  the  bread  and  re- 
maining stock  into  a  stew-pan  and  cook  20  minutes.  Strain 
the  meat  mixture  on  the  bread  mixture,  pressing  all  moisture  out 
of  the  meat.  Put  the  mixture  through  a  fine  sieve.  Return  to  the 
fire,  add  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg.  __Rub  the    2  remaining  table- 

16 


FISH 

spoonfuls  of  butter  with  the  flour,  stir  int(j  the  soup  and  simmer 
10  minutes.  Having-  heated  the  cream  in  a  double  boiler  add  it 
with  the  lobster  to  the  .soup.     Let  it  boil  up  once. 

DEVILLED    LOBSTER. 

(KOK    THK    CHAI-ING-DI.SH.) 

Mix  well  1  cup  of  diced  lobster  with  2  table-spoonfuls  of  oil.  1 
table-spoonful  of  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.     Let  it  stand  1  hour. 

Melt  3  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  add  4  table-spoonfuls  of  tomato 
catsup  and  the  lobster.  Add  \i  tea-spoonful  of  mustard,  a  little 
Cayenne  and  1  teasp<K)nful  of  lemon-juice.  Cook  5  minutes  antl 
serve. 

Any  cold  boiled  wiiite  fish'may  be  ctxjked  in  the  same  way,  flak- 
ing it  instead  of  cutting  into  dice. 

LOBSTER  FARCI. 
Remove  meat  from  the  shell  of  the  lobster  and  choji  fine.  For 
2  lobsters  make  a  cream  of  1  pt.  of  milk,  2  table-spofjnfuls  of 
flour,  2  table-spoonfuls  of  butter.  Add  1  table-spoonful  of  mus- 
tard, mixed  with  a  ver3-  little  water  and  a  speck  of  Cayenne;  stir 
in  the  meat,  sea.son  to  taste  and  boil  1  minute.  Have  shells  well 
cleaned,  fill  with  the  mixture,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  with  bits 
of  butter  on  tf)p.     Brown  in  ii  hot  oven. — Miss Ncwcomb. 

OYSTERS  A  LA  XEWBURG. 
Drain  and  pour  cold  water  over  1  jit.  oysters.  Have  a  granite 
pan  very  hot,  add  the  oj'sters  and  1  table-spoonful  of  butter,  Yz 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Stir  carefully  till  oj'sters 
are  smoking  hot,  have  read3'  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  with  )A, 
cup  cream.  Add  quicklj",  do  not  boil.  Add  1  table-spoor ful  of 
sherr3'.     Serve  hot  on  browned  toast. 

PHILADELPHIA  FRIED  OYSTERS. 
Beat  up  3  eggs  thoroughU',   add   fi  pt.   oj'ster-juice,   1   pepper- 
spoonful   of  Caj'enne,  1   salt-spcxinful    of   black   pepper,    1   table- 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

spoonful  of  "salt,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  Eng-lish  mustard.  Work 
the  mixture  to  a  batter,  and  gradually  add  1  gi.  of  oil.  Spread 
some  cracker  crumbs  half  an  inch  deep;  and  after  draining  50 
oysters  free  fi-om  liquid,  spread  them  on  the  cracker  crumbs, 
using  care  not  to  place  one  oyster  on  top  of  another.  Dredge 
cracker  over  them.  Pick  up  each  oyster  by  its  beard  and  dip  it 
in  the  batter.  Have  ready  some  bread  crumbs,  grated  from  the 
white  part  of  stale  bread.  Spread  these  on  the  table,  and  after 
the  oysters  have  been  dipped  in  the  batter,  lay  them  carefully  on 
the  bread  crumbs  two  inches  apart.  Then  turn  them  over  neatly 
to  crumb  the  other  side.  Dip  them  in  the  batter  again  and  again 
spread  them  on  the  bread  crumbs.  When  the  fat  is  very  hot,  drop 
the  03'sters  in  one  at  a  time,  taking  hold  of  the  beard.  Fry  a  dark 
brown.     Then  take  them  up  and  sprinkle  salt  over  them. 

YORKSHIRE  RECEIPT  TO  DRESS  DRIED  SALMON. 

Flake  some  dried  salmon.  Have  ready  some  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped  coarsely.  Put  both  into  1  pt.  of  cream,  with  2  ozs.  of  butter 
rubbed  up  with  1  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Skim  it  and  stir  till  it 
boils.  Serve  mashed  potatoes  round  the  dish  and  put  the  fish  in 
the  center. — Lady  St.  Clair'' s  Receipt  Book. 


POULTRY 


'•It  is  the  tKJiinty  <if  nature  that  we  live,  but  <>f   ]ihilos<»]>liy  that 
we  live  well."     Smcca. 

CHICKEN  CREAM. 
Take  all  the  tiesh  off  an  unoxjked  chicken.  p<iund  and  jia.s.s  it 
throug-h  a  wire  sieve:  add  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg'  to  taste. 
Whip  it  up  ver\'  lig-htly  with  1  pt.  thick  cream.  Pour  it  into  a 
well-buttered  mould.  Stir  gentl}'  for  1  hour.  It  must  not  boil. 
For  an  entree  u.se  a  mould  with  a  hole  in  the  center.  Pour  white 
sauce  about  it  and  fill  the  center  with  truffles  or  green  peas. 

Mrs.  (,'.  /i-iiins. 

CROQUETTES. 
One  pt.  milk.  1  cup  grated  bread  crumbs,  1  table-s]XH)nful  flour. 
1  pt.  finely  chopped  chicken  or  veal,  cooked.  Let  the  milk  come 
to  a  boil,  stir  in  the  crumbs,  boil  up  the  mixture.  Stir  in  the 
flour,  then  the  meat,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil  again.  Add  mace, 
Cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste.  Add  a  teasp<xmful  of  Wor- 
cestershire sauce.  Prepare  this  earlj-  in  the  morning^.  Let  it 
stand  to  thicken.  Make  into  croquettes,  roll  in  grated  cracker 
and  e^Tfr,     Drop  into  boiling  lard,  cook  till  of  a  light  brown  color. 

-^.Viss  .V.   /'.  A'.  A'us.u//. 

SUPREME  OF  CHICKEN. 
Remove  the  meat  from  the  breast  and  second  j<jints  of  an  un- 
cooked chicken  weighing  about  4  lbs.  Chop  the  meat  very  fine 
(there  should  be  about  /s  of  a  cupful),  add  4  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
beating  each  e^rg  thoroughly  and  smoothly  into  the  meat  before 
another  is  added.     Then  add  g^radually  1';    cups  of  heavj-  cream 

1^ 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a  well- 
buttered  mould  or  into  individuals.  Set  the  moulds  into  a  pan  of  hot 
water,  cover  with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  20  to  25  minutes,  or  till  firm  to  the  touch.  Serve  with 
bechamel  sauce. 

CHICKEN  TERRAPIN. 

Take  a  plump,  tender  chicken  and  roast  it.  When  cold,  remove 
the  skin  and  g"ristle,  cut  the  meat  into  pieces  one  inch  square  and 
put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  larg-e  tumbler  of  cream. 

Rub  into  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  eg"g-,  to  which  add  a  large  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  pinch  of 
Cayenne  pepper,  mustard  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg.  Take  the 
yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  when  cold,  and  mix  them  into  a  paste 
with  the  butter,  flour  and  condiments. 

Put  the  chicken  and  cream  on  the  fire  and  when  it  comes  to  a 
boil  stir  in  the  paste,  allowing  it  to  boil  a  little  less  than  5  min- 
utes. Add  2  large  wine-glasses  of  good  sherry,  and  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  cut  into  small  pieces.     Serve  hot..  — Miss  Robbins. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  TERRAPIN. 

Tal<e  the  remainder  of  a  boiled  or  roasted  chicken  and  cut  into 
small  pieces,  removing  all  skin  and  bones.  Put  the  meat  into  a 
saucepan,  and  to  a  scant  pint  of  meat,  poiir  over  1  gi.  of  cream. 
Simmer  a  few  minutes.  Cream  together  2  ozs.  of  butter  and  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  flour.  Moisten  with  a  little  milk  and  season 
higlily  witli  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper.  Add  this  to  the  chicken, 
and  cook  till  thick.  Then  add  a  wine-glass  of  sherry.  Mean- 
while boil  2  eggs  till  hard,  and  when  cold  chop  very  fine  and 
stir  into  the  chidden  mixture.  Remove  from  the  fire  at  once.  Put 
the  meat  into  individual  shells  or  baking  dishes,  and  cover  the  tops 
with  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.  Brown  in  a  quick  oven  and 
serve  \&xy  hot. 

20 


POULTRY 

TURKEY  STUFFING. 
Take  %  lb.  beef  suet  chopped  line,    Y^  lb.  bread  crumbs,  1  head 
chopped   celery,  a  little    parsley',  the  grated  rind   of   1   lemon,  _^ 
teaspoonful  mace,  pepper  and   salt  to  taste.      Mix  toj^etlier    with 
1  eg-g. 

(iAME. 

TO    PKKl'AKIC    CANAI'ICS    KOK    GAMK. 

Cut  the  canapes  from  a  stale  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  1  "^  ins. 
thick.  Trim  neatl}';  pare  oft'  the  crusts;  then  cut  out  ii  piece  in 
tlie  centre  of  each  large  enoug-h  to  hold  the  bird.  Spread  a  little 
butter  over  them,  place  on  a  tin  and  let  tliem  brown  in  a  hot  oven 
till  a  g"olden  color. 

CANVASBACK  DUCKS;  ROASTED. 

Procure  2  fine,  fat  canvasback  ducks:  pick,  singe,  draw 
and  wipe  them;  throw  a  little  ]iinch  of  salt  inside,  run  in  the 
liead  from  the  end  of  the  neck  to  the  back;  truss  nicely  and  place 
in  a  roasting-  pan;  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over,  put  them  into  a  brisk 
oven,  and  let  cook  for  18  minutes.  Arrang-e  on  a  very  hut  dish; 
untruss;  throw  2  table-siioonfuls  of  white  broth  into  each  duck, 
and  serve  with  6  slices  of  fried  hominy  and  currant  jelly. 
Barbe  de  Capucin  makes  a  desirable  salad  to  serve  with  this. 

GROUSE,  ROASTED,  A  LA  SAM    WARD. 

Take  2  fine,  fat  g^rouse;  pick,  singe,  draw  and  dry  them  well, 
then  truss  them  nicely;  lay  thin  slices  of  larding--pork  on  each; 
place  them  in  a  roasting^-pan,  putting-  inside  of  each  bird  a  piece 
of  broiled  toast  4  inches  long-  and  2  wide.  Drip  in  on  each  toast 
with  a  spoon  a  small  glassful  of  good  Madeira  wine,  or  sherry; 
season  the  grouse  with  apincli  of  salt;  spread  a  little  butter  over; 
put  them  in  a  brisk  oven  and  let  cook  for  18  minutes,  taking-  care 
to  baste  them  frequently.  Lay  them  on  a  hot  dish  and  truss; 
strain  the  grav}-  over.     Serve  with  a  red  currant  jellj^ 

21 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

ROAST  PARTRIDGE;  BREAD  SAUCE. 
Sing-e,  draw  and  wipe  2  fine,  young-  partridg-es;  truss  them 
neatly  and  cover  the  breasts  with  a  layer  of  thin  larding-pork, 
tying  it  twice  around.  Lay  them  on  a  roasting--pan,  spread  a 
little  butter  over  each  and  moisten  with  yi  cupful  of  water. 
Put  the  pan  in  a  brisk  oven  for  20  minutes,  basting-  the  birds  oc- 
casionally. Dress  each  on  a  bread  canape,  removing-  the 
strings.  Decorate  the  dish  with  a  little  water-cress;  strain  the 
g-ravy  into  a  sauce-bowl  and  serve  it  separately,  also  serving  }i  a 
pt.  of  bread  sauce  in  another  bowl. 

PLOVERS;  ROASTED  PLAIN. 
Pick,  singe,  draw  and  wipe  6  fine,  tender  plovers;  pick 
out  the  eyes;  truss  the  legs  together,  skewer  the  head  under  one 
leg,  and  lay  a  thin  slice  of  larding-pork  on  each  bird;  tie  secure- 
1}'^,  then  place  thein  in  a  roasting-pan;  season  with  a  pinch  of 
salt  evenly  divided  over  each;  spread  also  a  very  little  butter. 
Put  them  in  a  hot  oven  and  roast  for  10  minutes.  Remove  fromithe 
oven;  arrange  6  small  canapes  on  a  hot  dish;  dress  the  birds  on 
the  canapes  and  serve  with  water-cress. 

QUAILS,  BROILED. 
Take  6  fine,  fat  quails;  singe,  draw  and  wipe  them  well:  split 
them  through  the  back  without  separating  the  parts,  and  break 
the  two  leg  bones.  Put  them  on  a  dish,  season  with  a  pinch  of 
salt,  Yz  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  sweet  oil,  mixed 
well,  and  put  them  to  broil  on  a  moderate  fire  for  6  minutes  on 
each  side.  Arrange  6  toasts  on  a  hot  dish,  lay  the  quails  on  top 
and  pour  1  gi.  of  maitre  d'  hotel  butter  over,  decorating  with 
parsley. 

SADDLE  OF  VENISON;  JELLY  SAUCE. 
Procure  a  small   saddle  of  venison,   weighing  about  5  lbs;  pare 
it  neatly,  remove  the  sinews   from  the  surface  and  lard  it  with  a 
larding-needle  as  finely  as  possible;  tie  it  three  times  round.    Put 

22 


MliA  TS 

into  the  roast ing^-nan  1  sliced  onion,  1  slicetl  carrot;  lay  in  the 
saddle,  seasoning-  with  1  pinch  of  salt,  spread  )<  oz.  butter  (ner 
and  put  it  in  a  brisk  oven  to  roast  for  40  minutes,  basting-  it  often 
with  its  own  g-rav^';  untie  before  lifting-  it  from  the  pan;  arrange 
neatly  e*i  a  hot  dish;  pour  into  the  pan  '2  a  g-lassful  of  Madeira 
wine  and  1  g'l.  of  white  broth;  let  come  to  a  boil  on  the  stove;  skim 
the  fat  off  the  g-ravy,  straining^  the  lean  part  over  the  saddle. 
Serve  with  '2  pt.  hot  currant  jelly  sauce,  separately. 


MEATS 


"Nearer  as  thej'  come,  a  g-enial  savour 
"Of  certain  stews  and  roast-meats,  and  pilaus, 
"Thing's  which  in  hung^ry  mortals'  eyes  find  favor." 

— Byrou. 

BROILED  BREADED  BEEF. 
Cut  rare  i-oast  beef  in  pieces  =^  of  an  inch  thick,  season  with 
salt,  jiejiper  and  onion  juice  if  desired.  Brush  over  with  white  of 
egg  and  roll  in  soft  bread  crumbs.  Place  on  well-greased  broiler 
and  broil  5  minutes  over  a  clear  fire.  Serve  with  horse-radish 
sauce. 

SPICED  Bi:EF. 
Boil  a  shin  of  beef  in  8  qts.  of  water  with  1  table-spoonful  salt. 
Just  before  it  comes  to  a  boil  skim  well;  boil  all  da^'.  If  the  water 
boils  awaj^  add  more,  just  enough  to  keep  meat  from  burning. 
When  it  is  boiled  to  shreds  turn  it  into  a  pan,  that  3'ou  may  take 
out  every  bit  of  bone.  Put  it  back  into  the  pot,  season  with  pep- 
per, salt,  cloves,  allspice  and,  if  liked,  with  sweet  herbs.  Let  it 
simmer    Vz  hour,  stir  it  up    well,  turn  into  a  deep  dis'h    and   set 

23 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

away.  When  cold  it  will  be  as  hard  as  cheese.  Cut  in  thin 
slices  and  garnish  with  parsley.  This  will  keep  on  the  ice  a 
week  in  summer,  and  a  month  in  winter. 

COLD  ROAST  LAMB  AS  A  SALMI. 

Cut  the  meat  into  thin  slices.  Cook  1  table-spoonful  of  butter 
with  Yo.  table-spoonful  of  onion  for  5  minutes.  Add  the  lamb, 
sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepjier,  1  cup  of  brown  sauce,  or  brown 
gravy.     Season  with  any  kind  of  prepared  sauce. 

Arrange  the  meat  lengthwise  on  the  platter,  pour  the  sauce 
round,  and  garnish  with  toast  points.  Sliced  mushrooms  or  olives 
may  be  added. 

CURRY  OF  LAMB. 

Lamb,  beef  or  veal  is  delicious  when  warmed  over  with  curry 
sauce.  Remove  all  the  fat  and  skin  from  the  meat,  cut  into  thin 
slices,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  a  sauce-pan  3 
table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  yo  onion,  cut  fine,  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
tomato  catsup.  Cook  slowly  10  minutes,  then  add  2  table-spoon- 
fuls of  flour,  and  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  curry-powder.  Stir 
till  smooth,  graduall3'  add  1  pt.  of  stock,  and  cook  5  minutes. 
Strain  the  sauce  into  a  spider,  add  the  sliced  meat,  and  cook  15 
minutes.     Serve  with  rice  balls. 

CHAFING-DISH  COOKERY. 

Many  odds  and  ends  of  meat  and  fish  may  be  warmed  over  in  a 
white  sauce,  and,  with  careful  saasjuing,  will  make  delicious 
luncheon  dishes.  To  make  the  sauce,  melt  2  table-spoonfuls  of 
butter,  2  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  cook  till  smooth.  Then  add 
1  cup  of  milk.  Stir  the  sauce  till  it  boils,  add  about  1  %  cups  of 
meat,  cut  in  dice,  or  flaked  fish.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and,  if  liked,  a  little  prepared  table-sauce  or  wine  may  be  added. 
Cook  till  well  heated  and  serve. 

24 


.!//:./  /S 

TO   RE-COOK    .ML'TTON. 

Cut  the  mutton  in  incli-tliiclc  slices,  and  score  them.  Mix  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  mustard  with  4  of  olive  oil,  2  of  vinegar,  and  a  dash  of 
Cayenne  papper.  Spread  this  mixture  in  the  incisions  of  the  mutton 
and  broil  this  over  a  clear,  hot  fire.  Place  the  slices  on  a  heated 
platter,  salt  and  pepper  and  scatter  pieces  of  butter  over  them. 
Serve  very  hot  with  currant  jelly. 

POT   .\U    FEU. 

Take  6  or  7  lbs.  of  ihc  shank  at  the  knee-joint,  4  lbs.  of  the  bot- 
tom of  the  round.  Put  the  shank,  with  a  handful  of  salt,  in  cold 
water  sufficient  to  cover  it  and  boil  slowly,  skimming  till  no  scum 
rises.  Then  put  in  the  piece  of  the  round,  with  carrots  and  turnips 
(for  as  many  persons  as  desired),  I  big  onion  with  3  cloves  stuck  in 
it,  2  leeks,  i  bay-leaf,  3  whole  peppers,  a  few  tips  of  celery,  a  little 
summer  savory.  Cook  slowly  4  hours.  After  taking  out  the  beef 
and  vegetables  leave  the  soup  to  simmer  till  time  to  strain  it. 
When  quite  cold,  put  into  the  ice-box.  This  is  enough  for  several 
days,  and  it  should  be  a  stiff  jelly.  Slice  the  beef,  serve  with  the 
vegetables  round  it  and  some  of  the  soup. 

The  vegetables  and  other  ingredients  should  be  ordered  the  day 
before  and  put  in  at  8  o'clock  for  a  12.30  luncheon. 

SAUSAGE-ROLL. 

Take  i  lb.  sausage  meat,  flour,  lard,  baking-powder  and  ice- 
water.  -Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  put  the  sausage  meat  in  the 
middle  of  the  paste,  which  you  have  rolled  out  about  three-cjuarters 
of  an  inch  thick.  Spread  out  the  sausage  meat  on  the  paste  and  roll 
like  a  scroll,  moistening  the  flap  to  make  it  stick.  Lay  in  a  long, 
narrow  bread  pan,  with  the  flaps  uppermost,  and  bake  20  minutes. 
Brush  the  top  over  with  egg  or  milk  and  set  back  in  the  oven  to 
brown. 

This  is  an  old-fashioned  dish,  but  very  savory,  especially  for 
informal   suppers. — Mrs.  A'.  S.  Oliver. 

25 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

STANLEY  STEAK. 
A  porter-house  steak  2  inches  thick  broiled  over  a  hot  fire. 
Place  on  a  hot  platter  and  spread  both  sides  with  i  table-spoonful 
of  melted  butter  mixed  with  J^  teaspoonful  salt  and  same  of  white 
pepper.  On  the  top  lay  3  plantains  (red  bananas)  fried  in  butter. 
Over  this  pour  ^  pt.  of  bechamel  sauce.  Over  the  whole  sprinkle 
I  table-spoonful  of  grated  horse-radish.-  Mrs.  G.  Evans. 

SWEETBREAD. 

Cook  20  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water,  with  i  table-spoonful 
of  vinegar.  To  cream  them,  they  may  be  diced  and  added  to  a 
white  sauce  and  cooked  2  or  3  minutes  in  the  chafing-dish.  A  few 
sliced  mushrooms  may  be  added. 

Sweetbreads  are  also  delicious  served  with  a  well  seasoned  brown 
sauce.  To  make  a  sauce  for  one  pair  of  sweetbreads,  melt  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  add  3>4  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  when  well 
browned  ij^  cups  of  brown  stock,  cooked  15  minutes  with  a  blade 
of  mace,  a  bit  of  bay-leaf,  2  cloves,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  4  pepper- 
corns, and  then  strain.  When  the  sauce  boils,  add  the  sweet- 
breads, which  have  been  sliced,  i  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  cat- 
sup and  ^  cup  of  port  wine.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
when  well  heated  serve  on  toast. 

MOCK  TERRAPIN. 
Half  a  calf's  liver,  2  ozs.  of  butter,  Yz  pt.  of  water,  y^.  gi.  of  wine,  £ 
teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  as  much  Cayenne  pepper  as  can  be 
put  on  the  tip  of  a  spoon,  2  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine.  Season 
the  liver  with  salt,  and  fry  it  brown,  cut  it  into  small  bits,  dredge 
them  well  with  flour,  add  the  mustard,  pepper,  water,  eggs  and 
butter,  boil  i  or  2  minutes,  then  add  the  wine. 

TONGUE  SANDWICHES. 

Grate  i  lb.  cold  boiled  tongue,  mix  with  i  table-spoonful  mus- 
tard, the  mashed  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  ^^^,  i  oz.  of  butter  and  the 
juice  of  I  lemon.     Spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread. 

26 


MliA  TS 
VEAL  A  LA  MODE. 

Take  a  fillet  of  veal,  remove  the  bone  from  the  middle  and  trim 
nicely.  Bind  the  veal  with  a  strip  of  stout  muslin  as  wide  as  the 
fillet  is  high  and  stitch  the  ends  firmly  together.  Have  ready  some 
salt  pork  cut  into  small  strips  and  long  enough  to  reach  from  top  to 
bottom  of  the  fillet.  Take  a  larding  needle,  or  else  a  sharp  knife, 
and  insert  strips  of  pork  about  2  inches  apart.  Take  V/i  cups  of 
finely  grated  bread  crumbs,  i  small  onion,  i  egg,  a  piece  of  butter 
and  a  little  pepper,  but  no  salt.  Work  all  well  together  and  soften 
with  milk,  fill  the  hole  from  which  the  bone  was  taken  and  any 
empty  places  you  can  find  in  the  fillet  ?nd  rub  both  sides  of  the 
meat  with  it.  Take  a  large  dripping-pan,  lay  in  it  2  slices  of  pork 
and  I  of  ham;  on  these  place  the  meat;  pour  in  the  pan  a  large  cup- 
ful of  water  and  place  the  bone  in  the  pan;  cover  closely  and  bake  5 
hours  in  a  slow  oven,  basting  at  least  every  half  hour.  When  done, 
remove  the  cover  and  brown.  This  may  be  served  hot  or  cold.  If 
cold,  let  the  muslin  remain  till  the  meat  is  cold,  but  remove  the 
pork  while  hot.  The  gravy  may  be  set  aside  and  the  fat  removed. 
Warm  this  in  ?.  sauce-pan,  add  a  little  water  and  }{\  of  a  box  of  gela- 
tine; when  this  is  dissolved,  cool  for  a  few  moments  and  pour  over 
the  cold  meat.     This  will  form  a  covering  of  jelly. 

VEAL  JELLY. 

Take  a  shin  of  veal,  put  it  into  an  iron  pot  with  6  qts.  of  water: 
add  a  little  mace,  pepper  and  salt;  let  it  boil  6  hours.  The  water 
will  be  almost  absorbed.  Pick  out  all  the  bones  and  season  with 
ground  mace,  cinnamon,  jiepper  and  salt;  add  2  teacupfuls  of  very 
fine  cracker  crumbs,  stir  them  up  well.  Take  a  melon-shaped  mold, 
cut  3  hard-boiled  eggs  in  strips  lengthwise,  rub  the  mold  with  a 
little  of  the  juice  of  the  meat,  place  the  eggs  round  the  sides  of  the 
mold  and  fill  it  with  the  mixture.  Set  it  away  in  a  cool  place. 
Ornament  with  lettuce  or  celery. 

27 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

HOT  VEAL  LOAF. 
Take  i>4  pts.  of  cold  veal  chopped  fine,  i  level  teaspoonful  salt, 
y-2  teaspoonful  pepper,  2  eggs,  i  cup  milk,  2  table-spoonfuls  butter, 
Yz  cup  grated  bread  crumbs,  very  little  grated  onion.  Mix  salt, 
pepper,  onion  and  bread  crumbs  with  the  meat,  add  milk  heated 
with  the  butter,  and  lastly  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Put  in  well- 
buttered  baking  dish,  set  in  pan  of  water  and  cover  with  buttered 
paper.  Bake  i  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Turn  out  on  hot  dish  and 
serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

VENISON  CUTLETS. 
Venison  may  be  cooked  in  a  very  hot  pan,  with  just  enough  but- 
ter to  keep  it  from  sticking.  Sear  one  side  first,  turn  quickly  and 
sear  the  other  side.  Then  cook  the  cutlets  from  4  to  8  minutes. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  spread  with  butter  and  serve  with 
sauted  mushrooms. 

VITELLA. 
Melt  in  a  small  saucepan  i  table-spoonful  of  butter,  but  do  not 
let  it  brown.  Add  i  table-spoonful  of  flour  and  stir  till  smooth.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper.  Gradually  mix  with  this  ^  pt.  of  boiling 
water,  and  when  it  begins  to  thicken  and  is  quite  smooth,  add  i 
cup  of  cold  veal  cut  in  small,  thin  slices.  Just  before  serving  stir 
in  quickly  the  yolk  of  an  ^^^.  Do  not  let  it  cook  after  the  yolk  is 
added,  and  serve  as  soon  as  possible.  Or  cut  veal  in  small  pieces, 
not  so  fine  as  for  hash,  omit  the  egg  and  serve  on  toast. 


SAUCES 


Epicurean  cooks 

Sharpen  with  coyless  sauce  his  appetite." 

—  yiiit/ioiiy  and  Cleopatra. 

ASPIC  MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Melt,  but  heat  only  slightly  i  cup  aspic  jelly  or  i  cup  consomme 
set  into  a  jelly,  put  into  a  bowl  and  place  in  a  basin  of  ice-water. 
Have  ready  the  juice  of  ^  a  lemon,  i  cup  salad  oil.  \\  cup  vinegar, 
I  table-spoonful  sugar,  i  scant  table-spoonful  mustard,  i  tcaspoon- 
ful  salt,  I- 10  teaspoonful  Cayenne  pepper.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients 
with  the  vinegar,  beat  the  jelly  with  a  whisk  and  as  soon  as  it  begins 
to  thicken  add  the  oil  and  vinegar,  a  little  at  a  time.  Add  the 
lemon-juice  the  last  thing.  After  the  bowl  is  pl;iccd  in  the  ice- 
water  beat  continually.  This  gives  a  whiter  dressing  than  tlur.  made 
with  the  yolks  of  eggs. 

BECHAMEL   SAUCE. 

Take  one  slice  each  of  onion  and  carrot,  a  bit  of  bay-leaf,  sprig  of 
parsley  and  6  peppercorns,  and  cook  for  20  minutes  in  1^2  cups  of 
chicken  stock.  Melt  34  cup  of  butter,  add  ^4  cup  of  flour,  then 
add  gradually  i  cup  of  milk  and  i  cup  of  the  strained  chicken 
stock.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add,  if  liked,  the  yolks  of 
3  eggs,  well  beaten.  In  adding  the  eggs,  turn  a  little  of  the 
sauce  upon  the  eggs,  and  after  thoroughly  combining  the  two,  stir 
the  mixture  into  the  sauce,  which  should  not  boil  after  the  egg  is 
added. 

29 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

CREAM  SAUCE. 
Take  3  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  2  level  table-spoonfuls  of  flour, 
a  pinch  of  pepper,  i  pt.  of  milk,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  4  drops  of 
onion  juice.  Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  when  hot  add  flour, 
stir  till  smooth  and  frothy,  gradually  add  mi'.k,  then  boil  and  add  the 
seasoning.  When  ready  to  serve  add  chopped  parsley.  Turn  the 
timbales  onto  a  platter  and  pour  the  sauce  around. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 
Beat  lA  cupful  of  butter  till  soft  and  creamy.  Add  the  yolks 
of  4  eggs,  one  by  one.  and  beat  till  they  are  blended  with  the  but- 
ter. Add  iy-2  table-spoonfuls  lemon-juice,  one  salt-spoonful  of  salt, 
a  few  grains  Cayenne.  Beat  till  smooth,  then  beat  the  mixture 
with  the  Dover  egg-beater  for  5  minutes,  set  into  a  dish  of  boiling 
water,  add  1-3  cupful  boiling  water  and  cook  till  thick  as  mayon- 
naise sauce,  beating  all  the  time. 

HORSE-RADISH  SAUCE. 
Mix  2  table-spoonfuls  of  grated  horse-radish  with  i  table-spoon- 
ful   of    vinegar,     i     salt-spoonful    each    of   salt   and   pepper.      Mix 
thoroughly  and   fold   in  4  table-spoonfuls  of  thick   cream,   beaten 
stifif. 

A  GOOD  LIQUID  PUDDING  SAUCE. 

Scrape  ^  lb.  of  maple  sugar  and  dissolve  it  in  a  cupful  of  cream 
or  rich  milk.  Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  at  the  side  of  the  range  till 
it  has  the  consistency  of  thin  syrup,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent 
burning.  Batter  puddings,  or,  in  fact,  any  puddings  which  have  no 
decided  flavor  of  their  o^fn  are  much  improved  by  this  sauce. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 

Cook  together  2  table-spoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour,  i  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  Yx  salt-spoonful  of  pepper;  add  gradually  Y^  cup  of 
cream  or  milk  and  ^  cup  of  well-seasoned  chicken  stock  or  mush- 
room liquor;  add  J/2  a  can  of  mushrooms,  and  serve  as  soon  as  the 

30 


SA  UCIiS 

mushrooms  are  thoroughly  heated.  When  fresh  mushrooms  are 
used,  peel  and  cut  them  into  pieces,  then  simmer  for  lo  minutes 
in  the  sauce. 

SARDINE  DRESSING. 

Mash  3  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs  till  smooth.  Remove  the  skin 
and  bones  from  3  sardines  and  pound  them  to  a  pulp;  then  add  the 
mashed  yolks,  and  after  mixing  well,  beat  the  mixture  into  1/2  pt. 
of  mayonnaise  dressing. 

SHRIMP  SAUCE. 

Beat  1/2  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  a  level  table-spoonful  of 
corn-starch,  and  beat  till  smooth;  then  add  i  cup  of  boiling  water 
and  cook  in  the  double  boiler.  Stir  constantly  till  the  sauce 
thickens,  and  then  occasionally  for  about  10  minutes;  add  J^  cup 
of  shrimps  cut  in  dice.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  add- 
ing also  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice. 

STRAWBERRY  PUDDING  SAUCE. 
Take  i  qt.  ot  fine  berries,  hulled  and  washed.  Sift  lYi  teacups 
of  fine  sugar  over  them,  let  stand  for  1/2  an  hour,  then  cut  up  fine 
with  a  silver  knife.  Beat  together  i  large  table-spoonful  of  butter 
and  f:J  of  a  cup  of  while  sugar  till  it  creams.  Then  add  gradually 
fresh  strawberries,  mashing  them  and  beating  all  well  together  till 
well  flavored  and  of  a  nice  pink  color. 

TARTAR  BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Beat  I  heaping  table-spoonful  of  butter  to  a  cream.  Put  i  scant 
salt-spoonful  of  salt,  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne,  y2  a  level  teaspoonful 
of  sugar  and  K'  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard  into  a  cup.  Mix  these; 
add  the  yolk  of  i  egg  and  beat  till  light  and  thick.  Add  the 
creamed  butter,  a  little  at  a  time,  then  very  gradually  i  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice.  When  smooth 
and  light,  add  i  teaspoonful  each  nf  cucumber  pickles  and  chopped 
capers  and  a  little  pounded  and  sifted  tarragon. 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

TOMATO  MUSTARD. 
(Maison  rouge,  Murray  bay.) 
Boil  for  half  an  hour  i  pk.  of  ripe  tomatoes,  i  cup  of  salt  and 
about  6  onions,  chopped  fine.  Then  put  through  the  colander  and 
back  into  the  kettle  with  the  following  ingredients:  i  dessert- 
spoonful each  of  ground  cloves,  ginger,  allspice,  black  pepper  and 
Cayenne.  Curry-powder  and  dried  mushrooms  are  an  improve- 
ment. Let  this  boil  down  till  it  is  pretty  thick,  then  strain  through 
a  hair  sieve  and  boil  20  minutes. — Mrs.  Bowditch. 


SALADS 

"We'll  mend  our  dinner  here." — Comedy  of  Errors. 

BANANA  SALAD. 

Cut  lengthwise  fine  bananas  in  slices  as  thick  as  a  dollar,  arrange 
them  on  a  dish  so  that  the  ends  of  the  long  semi-circular  slices 
meet  and  form  a  hollow  center.  Pour  over  them  i  gi.  of  sherry 
wine  sweetened  with  sugar,  into  which  you  have  put  i  teaspoon- 
ful  lemon-juice.  Let  them  get  ice  cold,  then  fill  the  center  with 
whipped  cream,  piled  high. 

COLD  SLAW. 

Chop  the  cabbage  very  fine.  Take  i  teaspoonful  flour,  i  table- 
spoonful  butter,  Yi  teaspoonful  sugar,  a  large  pinch  of  salt  and  of 
pepper,  2  eggs  (yolks  only),  i  teacupful  thick  sour  cream,  i  table- 
spoonful  vinegar.  Put  on  the  fire  and  stir  constantly.  Let  it  boil 
2  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Remove  from  fire  and  place  on 
ice  till  cold.     Then  pour  over  cabbage  and  serve. — M.   K.    V.  Hun. 

32 


SALADS 

COLD  SLAW. 

Shred  cabbage  very  fine,  and  place  it  in  a  salad  dish.  For  every 
pt.  and  a  half  of  cabbage  allow  '/^  pt.  of  vinegar,  ^  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  H  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  i  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  2  table-spoonfuls  of  cream,  2  eggs.  Place  the 
vinegar  and  seasoning  in  a  bowl  over  the  tea  kettle.  Beat  the  eggs 
well,  turn  them  into  the  vinegar,  stir  constantly  until  the  mixture 
thickens,  and  then  add  the  cream.  Remove  the  dressing  from  the 
fire,  and  pour  it  while  hot  over  the  cabbage.  Garnish  with  rings 
of  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  serve  when  cold. 

NUT  SALAD. 

]\Ii.x  I  cup  English  walnut  meats  with  several  times  that  quantity 
of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces.  Use  mayonnaise  dressing.  Slice 
olives  over  the  top.     Garnish  with  the  tender  pieces  of  celery. 

—Mrs.  Clark. 

SALAD  OF  CHEESE  AND  NUTS. 

To  2  Neufchatel  cheeses  add  i  cup  of  English  walnut  meats, 
chopped  very  fine.  Mix  the  cheese  with  cream  to  a  smooth  paste 
and  stir  in  the  nuts.  Mould  into  small  balls  and  serve  on  lettuce, 
with  a  French  dressing. — Miss  Nczvioinh. 

ORANGE  SALAD. 

Grate  the  outer  red  peel  from  4  large  Valencia  oranges,  cut  the 
pulp  in  round  slices  about  J4  inch  thick,  remove  the  inner  pithy 
white  peel  and  the  skin  of  the  lobes.  Sprinkle  the  grated  peel 
through  the  pulp,  throw  3  table-spoonfuls  sugar  over  it,  and  finally 
add  I  gi.  of  good  brandy  or  Santa  Cruz  rum,  or  if  you  prefer  a 
sweet  liquor,  i  gi.  of  curacoa  or  maraschino.  Let  the  salad  become 
thoroughly  chilled  by  putting  into  a  bowl  and  placing  this  in  a  pan 
of  cracked  ice  before  it  is  transferred  to  the  table.  It  is  a  delicious 
salad  to  serve  with  roast  duck,  or  any  game,  and  appropriate  for 
the  first  course  of  a  breakfast. 

33 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

ORANGE  AND  WALNUT  SALAD. 
Select  acid  oranges,  remove  the  peel  and  every  particle  of  white 
skin,  slice  very  thin,  lengthwise  of  the  orange,  removing  as  much 
of  the  partition  walls  as  possible.  Slice  English  walnuts  very  thin. 
To  each  i  pt.  of  orange  slices  add  ^^  pt.  of  the  sliced  nuts;  dress 
with  a  French  dressing  made  of  Yz  teaspoonful  of  salt,  dash  of  Cay- 
enne, 6  table-spoonfuls  of  oil  and  4  table-spoonfuls  of  lemon-juice. 
Serve  on  a  bed  of  water-cress.     Particularly  good  with  game. 

PICTURESQUE  SALAD. 
Take  4  perfect  rosy-cheeked  apples,  4  large  red  tomatoes,  4  per- 
fectly shaped  green  peppers.  Arrange  these  on  a  bed  of  fresh,  crisp 
lettuce  and  garnish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Allow  one  to 
each  person.  Hollow  out  the  apples,  etc.  Fill  apples  with  celery 
and  a  little  chicken,  mixed  with  mayonnaise.  Fill  peppers  with 
their  own  meat  chopped  with  a  sweetbread  and  mayonnaise,  and 
the  tomatoes  with  slices  of  smaller  tomatoes,  tender  green  lettuce 
and  mayonnaise.  The  fruits  should  be  fitted  together  so  that  their 
contents  will  be  a  surprise. — Mrs.   Clark. 

SARDINE  SALAD. 
Use  I  pt.  of  any  kind  of  cold  cooked  fish,  flaked  with  a  silver  fork 
and  marinated.  Cover  the  fish  with  sardine  dressing,  after  it  has 
been  arranged  on  lettuce  leaves.  Carefully  split  6  sardines,  remove 
the  bones  and  arrange  the  halves  over  the  top  of  the  salad,  the  ends 
meeting  at  the  center.     Garnish  with  lemon. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 
Select  I  tomato  for  each  person.  Around  the  stalk  carefully  cut 
out  a  neat  little  circle  and  with  a  pointed  knife  remove  as  much 
of  the  pulp  and  juice  as  possible  without  breaking  them.  For  the 
stuffing:  Chop  fine  2  large  floury  cooked  potatoes,  with  2  onions 
which  have  been  cooked  slowly  till  soft  in  i  oz.  of  butter.  Pour 
over  these  i  table-spoonful  of  salad  oil  and  >^  table-spoonful  of  tar- 
ragon vinegar.     Let  them  stand  for  ^  hour.     Then  add  the  pota- 

34 


SALADS 

toes,  I  table-spoonful  chopped  p.irslcy,  2  slircddcd  lettuce  leaves 
and  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper.  Carefully  fill  each  tomato  with 
this  mixture.  Place  a  tiny  bunch  of  water-cress  on  top  of  each. 
Put  each  tomato  on  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf  and  pour  into  the  leaf  a 
little  very  thick  mayonnaise  sauce. 

TOMATO  JELLY. 
To  make  tomato  jelly  for  salads,  take  a  can  of  tomatoes  or  8 
medium  sized  tomatoes,  skinned  and  stewed,  an<l  ^4  of  a  box  of 
gelatine.  Pass  the  tomatoes  through  a  sieve  to  remove  the  seeds. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  then  add  the  gelatine,  previously 
melted  in  hot  water.  The  mixture  is  now  ready  to  be  poured  into 
a  mould,  and  should  be  placed  on  the  ice  to  set.  When  cold,  gar- 
nish with  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  pour  over  the  whole  a  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Or  the  jelly  may  be  broken  up  and  used  as  a  garnish 
itself,  with  the  lettuce  and  dressing  in  the  center  of  the  dish. 

TONGUE  SALAD. 
Take  etpial  portions  of  pickled  tongue  and  meat  jelly.  Freshen 
the  tongue,  cook  tender  and  trim  carefully.  When  cold,  cut  in 
dice  and  put  on  ice.  Make  jelly  from  soup  stock  highly  seasoned 
with  celery,  reduced  one-third  and  made  stiff  by  the  addition  of  1 
table-spoonful  gelatine  to  each  pint  of  stock.  Pour  into  shallow 
tins.  When  cold,  cut  in  dice  and  put  on  ice.  Just  before  serving 
mix  the  jelly  lightly  with  the  tongue  and  French  mayonnaise  made 
more  delicate  by  the  addition  of  a  little  whipped  cream. 

WALDORF  SALAD. 

Celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  with  some  apples  sliced  thin.  Pour 
over  this  a  nice  mayonnaise  dressing.  This  is  a  favorite  salad  at 
"  The  Waldorf,"  served  with  the  meat  or  game  course.  Lettuce 
may  be  used  instead  of  celery. — J/rs.  Ih-umvi. 


VEGETABLES 

"  Though  we  eat  little  flesh  and  drink  no  wine, 
Yet  let's  be  merry.  " — Shelley. 

CABBAGE  DRESSED   WITH   CREAM. 

Cut  the  cabbage  and  stew  it  as  in  the  above  recipe;  drain  it, 
return  to  the  saucepan  and  add  i  gi.  or  more  of  rich  cream,  i  oz. 
of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Simmer  2  or  3  minutes,  then 
serve. 

STEWED  CABBAGE. 

Slice  cabbage  as  for  cold  slaw,  cover  with  water  and  stew  till 
tender  in  a  covered  saucepan.  Pour  off  the  water,  add  a  bit  of 
butter,  and  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar  to  taste.  Stir  as  little  as  pos- 
sible.    Simmer  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

CAULIFLOWER. 
Boil  as  usual.  Then  place  in  a  dish  and  pour  over  it  the  following 
sauce:  i  table-spoonful  of  butter,  i  table-spoonful  of  flour,  i  pi. 
of  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and,  if  liked,  with  nutmeg. 
Boil  I  minute,  pour  over  the  cauliflower,  grate  over  it  i  table- 
spoonful  of  cheese.     Put  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 

CORN  PUDDING. 
Take  12  ears  of  corn  boiled  and  cut  from  the  cob,  3  eggs,  i  table- 
spoonful  sugar,  iJ/2  cups  sweet  milk  or  cream,  small  piece  of  but- 
ter and  a  little  salt.     Boil  i  hour.— Miss  A.   V.  R.  Russell. 

FRIED  HOMINY. 
Slice  cold  boiled  hominy,  dip  the  slices  in  a  batter  made  of  egg, 
flour,  milk  and  salt.     One  beaten  egg  and  i  cup  of  milk  will  make 


VEGETABLILS 

enouj^h   for   a   small    family.     Fry    in   very   hot,    deep    pot.      Serve 
plain  or  with  syrup. 

MUSHROOMS  IN   CREAM. 

Place  in  the  bottom  of  the  chafing-dish  slices  of  toast.  Lay  on 
the  toast  i  doz.  fresh  mushrooms,  peeled;  dot  each  with  a  little 
butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  i-"?  of  a  cup  of  cream. 
Cover  the  pan,  place  over  the  flame  and  cook  till  the  cream  boils, 
then  cook  15  minutes  over  hot  water. 

POTATOES  AU  GRATIN. 

Take  6  cold,  boiled  potatoes,  cut  very  fine,  2  table-spoonfuls  but- 
ter. Put  in  frying-pan,  when  melted  add  i  table-spoonful  flour,  rub 
smooth  and  add  J/2  pt.  of  stock  or  i  teaspoonful  Armour's  beef 
extract,  to  i  pt.  water  and  i  pt.  cream.  Put  over  the  fire  and  stir 
till  the  mixture  boils,  then  add  4  heaping  table-spoonfuls  grated 
cheese  and  the  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Season  with  salt  and  Cayenne. 
Sprinkle  bread  crums  and  butter  on  the  top.  Bake  10  minutes  in 
a  quick  oven. 

BREAKFAST  POTATOES. 

Take  cold,  firm,  boiled  potatoes  that  are  not  mealy,  cut  them 
into  uniform  half-inch  bits.  Put  i  qt.  of  these  pieces  in  a  double 
boiler,  in  layers  with  2  even  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  2  ozs.  of  butter, 
pour  Yi.  pt.  of  cream  over  the  top,  cover,  heat  slowly  and  simmer 
gently  for  ^  of  an  hour,  stir  as  little  as  possible  and  with  a  fork 
only.     In  taking  up  the  potatoes  be  careful  not  to  break  them. 

Success  depends  upon  having  firm,  boiled  potatoes,  care  in  cut- 
ting tlicm,  and  cream. 

STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Take  large,  smooth  potatoes,  bake  till  soft,  cutting  off  the  top  of 

each.     Scrape  out  the  inside  of  each,  taking  care  not  to  break  the 

skin,  set  aside  the  empty  cases  and  tops.     Mash  the  inside  smooth 

with  a  little  butter  and  i  teaspoonful  of  cream  to  each  potato,  sea- 

37 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

son  with  salt  and  pepper,  mash  it  very  soft  with  milk  and  put  into  a 
saucepan  to  heat.  When  scalding  hot,  stir  in  i  well-beaten  egg. 
Boil  up  once,  then  fill  the  skin  with  the  mixture,  replacing  the  tops; 
return  to  the  oven  for  3  minutes;  arrange  on  a  napkin  in  a  deep 
dish,  the  tops  uppermost.  Add  a  pinch  of  cheese  to  each  potato,  if 
liked. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES  A  LA  GRECQUE. 
Hollow  out  some  good  tomatoes,  salt  and  drain  them  on  a  sieve. 
Scald  some  rice  in  salted  water,  add  butter,  a  small  onion  and  some 
minced  fennel.     Stuff  the  tomatoes  with  this.     Place  in  a  tin,  sprin- 
kle with  oil  and  bake. — Greek. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 
Cut  out  the  heart  from  some  tomatoes  and  fill  the  cavity  with 
uncooked  rice  and  raw  chopped  meat,  in  equal  quantities;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  the  tomatoes  in  a  dish  and  cover  them 
with  broth  Cover  the  dish  and  boil  slowly  i  hour.  The  filling 
will  swell  with  the  boiling  and  the  tomatoes  will  be  round  and 
smooth  in  appearance  as  though  they  were  fresh  from  the  vines. 


EGGS 

"  The  vvdgar  boil,  the  learned   roast,  an  egg: 
Hard  task  to  hit  the  palate  of  such  guests." — Pope. 

(For  Chafing-Dish.) 
To  5  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  allow  Y2  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little 
pepper  and  Y2.  a  cup  of  cream  or  consomme.  Melt  2  table-spoon- 
fuls of  butter,  add  the  mixture  and  cook  till  creamy,  stirring  con- 
stantly. To  vary  the  flavor  1-3  of  a  cup  of  boiled  ham,  cut  in 
strips,  or  2  table-spoonfuls  of  grated  cheese  may  be  added  just 
before  serving. 

38 


/iCCS 

EGG  ROLLS. 

Rub  2  table-spoonfuls  of  butler  with  i  ])t.  of  Hour,  add  i  table- 
spoonful  of  baking-powder,  ^  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  mix  thoroughly, 
beat  I  egg  till  light,  add  to  it  i  gi.  milk.  Then  add  these  to  the 
flour,  knead  lightly,  pull  out,  cut  into  squares  and  with  a  sharp 
knife  cut  a  gash  through  the  center.  Brush  the  top  with  the  white 
of  egg  and  sugar  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

EGGTIMBALES. 

Take  6  eggs,  !]/>  cups  of  milk,  %  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  Y^  tea- 
poonful  of  salt,  Ys,  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  Y  teaspoonful 
of  onion-juice.  Break  the  eggs  and  beat  well  with  a  fork;  add  the 
seasoning  and  milk.  Butter  moulds  and  pour  the  mixture  into 
them,  stand  the  moulds  in  a  pan  of  water,  cook  till  firm  in  the 
center  and  serve  with  cream  snuce. 

OMELET. 

Take  4  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately  and  very  stiff, 
I  small  cup  of  milk,  i  table-spoonful  corn-starch,  salt.  Dissohc 
corn-starch  in  milk,  pour  into  the  yolks,  stir  all  lightly  into  whites. 
Have  a  hot  frying-pan  on  the  stove,  with  some  butter  in  it.  Pour 
in  the  mixture.  Do  not  let  it  burn.  Slip  knife  under,  every  few 
minutes.  When  brown  on  the  bottom  put  pan  and  all  in  the  oven 
for  a  few  minutes,  till  the  top  is  a  little  dry.  Fold  over.  Invi  rt  a 
hot  platter  over  it,  turn  the  pan  quickly  and  serve  at  once.  Vou 
may  sprinkle  this  before  folding  with  minced  ham  or  tongue. 

POTATO  OMELET. 

Take  2  cups  mashed  potatoes,  butter  size  of  egg  melted  and  beaten 
with  potato,  2  table-spoonfuls  flour,  2  table-spoonfuls  milk,  i  tea- 
spoonful cream  of  tartar,  Y2  teaspoonful  of  soda,  beat  well,  add  2 
eggs  and  beat  thoroughly,  put  in  bread-tin  well  greased  and  bake 
20  minutes. 

39 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

OMELET  SOUFFLE. 
Whites  of  5  eggs,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  orange  juice.  lemon-juice  or 
vanilla  extract,  3  table-spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Beat  the 
whites  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  beat  the  yolks,  add  them  to  the  whites, 
then  the  sugar  and  flavoring.  Stir  carefullv  and  quickly.  Drop, 
by  the  spoonful,  in  souffle  cases  or  into  a  dish,  dredge  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  bake  a  golden  brown,  serve  immediately.  Butter  the 
cases  or  dish  before  beginning  to  work. 


CHEESE 


"  I  will  make  an  end  of  m3'  dinner; 
there's  pippins  and  cheese  to  come." 

— Merry  Wives  of  Windsor. 

BREAD  SAUTE. 

(For  the  Chafing-Dish.) 
Thick  slices  of  bread,  2  table-spoonfuls  butter,  2  of  grated  ham, 
2  of  grated  cheese,  i  gi.  of  cream,  Cayenne.  Cut  crust  from  bread, 
put  the  butter  in  chafing-dish.  When  very  hot  brown  the  bread 
on  both  sides,  take  it  out  and  put  in  the  ham,  cheese  and  cream, 
season  with  Cayenne  pepper.  Mix  all  well  together  and  when 
very  hot,  spread  the  mixture  on  the  toast. — IMrs.  Evans. 

CREAM  CHEESE. 

Three  gi.  of  thick  cream,  i  table-spoonful  of  salt.  Stir  together, 
tie  up  the  cream  in  a  cloth  and  let  it  drop  for  3  or  4  days,  changing 
the  cloth  every  day.  It  must  be  hung  upon  a  nail  to  drip,  and 
when  ready,  on  the  third  or  fourth  day,  put  it  into  a  wooden  mould 
and  press  r  hour.     It  will  then  be  ready  for  eating. 

40 


CHEIiSli 

CHEESE   FONDU. 

Take  i  cup  bread  cruml)s,  very  dry  and  fine,  2  scant  cups  of  milk, 
rich  and  fresh,  K'  lt>-  tl'T  cheese,  grated,  3  eggs  whipped  very  Hglit, 
I  table-spoonful  melted  butter,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  1-3  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water  and  added  to  the  milk. 
Soak  cue  crumbs  in  the  milk,  beat  into  these  the  eggs,  butter,  sea- 
soning, and  lastly  the  cheese.  Butter  a  pudding  dish  and  pour  the 
mixture  into  it.  Sprinkle  dry  bread  crumbs  on  top  and  bake  till 
brown  in  a  rather  Cjuick  oven.     /.'.  .S".   Kirby. 

NAPKIN  CHEESE. 

Put  I  pt.  of  thick  cream  and  i  teaspoonful  of  salt  into  a  cloth, 
which  should  be  placed  in  a  sieve  the  size  of  a  tea  saucer.  Stand  for 
24  hours,  then  turn.  Let  it  stand  another  whole  day  and  turn 
again.     The  day  following  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 

CHEESE  RISSOLES. 

Two  ozs.  Parmesan  cheese,  i  oz.  English  cheese,  3  eggs  (whites 
only).  Grate  the  cheese,  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  mustard,  mix  all  well  together,  form 
into  small  balls  and  fry  3  minutes  in  boiling  fat.  Serve  hot  with 
salad.— i7//-5.  FrecVk  C.  3fa)ini>i,<;-. 

CHEESE  RELISHES. 

For  cracker  sandwiches,  if  you  can  obtain  thick  crackers,  split 
and  butter;  failing  the  thick  ones,  use  the  ordinary  cracker;  butter 
and  spread  with  grated  cheese  and  salt.  Put  two  together  and 
place  in  dripping  pan  in  a  hot  oven  until  thoroughly  heated. 

There  is  an  Italian  method  of  cooking  spaghetti  that  is  very  nice. 
The  spaghetti  is  first  boiled  in  salted  water  and  then  dressed  with; 
cheese,  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  A  certain  portion  of  it  is  then- 
fried  in  butter  till  perfectly  crisp  and  broken  into  bits  —  if  it  has 
not  already  broken  in  frying  —  and  mixed  with  the  rest  of  the 
spaghetti.     The  crispy  bits  give  a  delightful  little  relish. 

41 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 
Take  ^  lb.  cheese,  ^  lb.  flour,  i  egg,  2  ozs.  butter.     Grate  the 
cheese  and  rub  it  with  the  butter  into  the  flour,  moisten  with  the 
egg  and  season  highly  with  Cayenne  pepper  and  a  little  salt.     Roll 
J4  inch  thick  and  cut  in  narrow  fingers.     Bake  20  minutes. 

Mrs-.  Fred''k  C.  Matining. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 
One  cup  finely  grated  cheese,  J/2  cup  sifted  flour,  ^2  teaspoonful 
salt,  little  Cayenne  pepper,  i  egg.  Mix  flour  and  cheese  together, 
add  salt  and  pepper,  mix  thoroughly.  When  cheese  is  very  dry, 
add  a  little  butter.  Beat  egg  a  little  and  add  to  flour  and  cheese. 
Stir  all  on  platter.  Knead  on  platter.  Roll  out  thin  and  cut  in 
long  sticks.     Bake  10  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

— Frances  Stillnian. 

ENGLISH  MONKEY. 
Soak  for  15  or  20  minutes  i  cup  of  grated  bread  crumbs  from 
center  of  stale  loaf  in  i  cup  of  milk.  Put  i  table-spoonful  of  butter 
into  the  blazer  over  hot  water  and  when  melted  add  i  scant  cup  of 
cheese  grated  or  broken  into  bits.  When  the  cheese  is  melted,  add 
the  bread  and  milk,  i  t%^  well  beaten,  a  dash  of  paprica  and  a 
palatable  seasoning  of  salt.  Stir  vigorously  and  when  thick  and 
smooth,  serve  on  sippets  of  bread,  toasted  on  one  side,  or  on  toasted 
crackers. 

FERNWOOD. 

A  delicious  cheese  relish  for  supper  may  be  made  as  follows:  i 
pt.  of  grated  cheese,  i  pt.  of  sweet  milk,  i  pt.  of  bread  crumbs,  2 
eggs,  y2  a  nutmeg,  grated,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  table-spoonful  of 
butter.  Beat  the  eggs  well,  turn  them  into  a  granite  stew-pan  and 
stir  into  them  the  grated  cheese,  the  bread  crumbs,  the  grated  nut- 
meg and  the  salt.  Heat  the  milk  to  scalding  point  and  add  to  it 
the  butter,  turn  the  liquid  over  the  cheese  mixture  and  stir  all  well 
together.     Cover  the  stew-pan  and  set  in  a  warm  place  for  3  hours, 

42 


BREAD  AXD  BRHAKFASl^  CAKES 

stirring  occasionally.      The  heat  should  be  only  sufficient  to  entirely 
dissolve  the  cheese. 

WELSH  RAREBIT  WITH  OYSTERS. 

(For  Chafing-Dish.) 

Parboil  i  cup  of  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  till  the  edges  curl, 
turn  them  into  a  covered  dish  to  keep  hot  till  you  are  ready  for 
them.  Melt  in  the  cutlet  pan  i  table-spoonful  of  butter,  add  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  corn-starch  and  pour  on  slowly  1-3  of  a  cup  of  cream. 
When  boiling  add  Yz  lb.  cheese,  cut  fine.  Season  with  salt,  mus- 
tard and  Cayenne  and,  as  the  cheese  melts,  add  i  beaten  egg 
diluted  with  ^  cup  of  oyster  liquor  and  the  oysters.  Serve  at  once 
on  crackers  or  toast. 


BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST 
CAKES 

"He  that  will  have  a  cake  out  of  the  wheat 

mu.st  needs  tarry  the  grinding." — Shakspeare 

MAPLE  SUGAR  BISCUIT. 

Make  an  ordinary  soda-biscuit  dough  and  when  ready  to  roll 
out  stir  in  a  generous  cupful  of  maple  sugar  which  has  been  cut 
into  the  size  of  peas.  Cut  the  biscuits  of  the  usual  shape  and  let 
the  whole  process  be  as  rapid  as  possible.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
and  serve  hot.  The  syrup  cooks  out  somewhat  in  baking  and 
forms  a  syrupy  coating  which  is  very  agreeable. 

43 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 
One  and  one-half  pts.  of  Indian  meal,  1^2  pts.  of  Graham  meal, 
1  cup  of  molasses,  i  teaspoonfnl  of  salt,  ^  teaspoonful  of  cooking 
saleratus  dissolved  in  2  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  i  qt.  of  milk 
which  has  been  scalded  and  nearly  cooled.  First  measure  both 
kinds  of  meal  and  put  in  the  pan.  Then  make  a  hole  in  the  middle 
and  put  in  the  molasses,  next  add  the  salt  and  the  saleratus  dis- 
solved in  the  vinegar.  Then  stir  in  the  milk.  Put  in  12  tightly 
covered  pails  and  steam  constantly  for  5  hours. — Mrs.    Robbifis. 

SOFT  CORN  BREAD. 
Take  i  cup  of  corn-meal,  whites  of  2  eggs,  i  table-spoonful  of 
salt,  I  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  i 
'CUp  of  boiled  hominy  or  rice  and  about  2  cups  of  milk.  Scald  the 
meal  with  about  i  cup  of  boiling  water,  then  add  the  hominy,  milk, 
•etc.,  and  take  i  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter.  Bake  in  pudding 
'dish. — Mrs.  J.  Harvard  King. 

CORN  MEAL  AND  RICE  BREAD. 
Take  i  large  cup  boiled  rice,  i  large  cup  corn  meal,   i  pt.  milk, 
,3   eggs,    I  table-spoonful   melted   butter,    i   teaspoonful   salt,   2   tea- 
spoonfuls  baking-powder.     Bake  20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

— Miss  Smiley. 

MOTHER'S   BROWN   BREAD. 
Take  i  qt.  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  i  cup  of  Santa  Cruz  molasses, 
I  teaspoonful  of  soda,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt;  stir  up  pretty  thick  with 
unbolted  wheat   flour   and   add  the   soda   dissolved   in   a  little   hot 
water  the  last  thing.     Bake  in  slow  oven  in  narrow  bread  pans. 

— Mary  Parker  Corning. 

MRS.  PARKER'S  BREAD. 
Take  i   qt.   of  flour,   a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,   i   cup   of 
-sugar  and  i  teaspoonful  of  salt.     Pour  on  all  this  3^  qts.  of  boiling 
water  and  stir  until  the  lumps  are  gone.     Then  put  it  away  to  cool. 

44 


BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  CAKES 

Stir  in  the  yeast  when  it  is  lukewarm.  Soak  tlie  yeast  in  i  i)t.  of 
lukewarm  water.  Then  stir  in  a  little  flour  and  make  it  as  thick 
as  batter  and  let  it  get  light.  Let  the  bread  stand  in  a  stone  crock 
2  or  3  hours.  Mi.x  it  over  night.  Cut  off  a  piece  for  rolls  and  add 
a  little  butter  to  it.  Knead  the  bread  for  Yi  an  hour.  Do  not  put 
the  bread  near  the  stove  to  raise  it. — Mrs.  Marvin. 

NEW  ENGLAND  BROWN  BREAD. 
To  iVz  pts.  of  rye  meal  add  i^  pts.  of  corn  meal  and  i  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt;  mix  thoroughly  dry;  then  add  i  cupful  of  molasses  and  i 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  wet  in  a  little  warm  water. 
Add  enough  sour  milk  to  make  a  soft  batter.  Put  the  mixture  into 
a  buttered  mould,'  with  tight  cover  and  steam  4  hours.  When  done, 
take  out,  cut  into  medium  thick  slices  and  serve  on  a  platter.  It 
can  be  eaten  with  butter  alone,  but  for  a  company  dish  at  tea  it 
may  be  served  with  thick  cream  poured  over  each  slice. 

I-IOT  CROSS  BUNS. 
Take  4  cups  of  flour,  i  generous  cup  of  heated  milk.  When  cool 
add  2  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  5<2  cupful  of  sugar,  '^  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  Yi  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  Y2  a  yeast  cake,  2  eggs.  Dissolve 
the  butter  in  the  milk,  beat  eggs  separately,  add  the  ingredients  to 
the  flour,  knead  well;  the  dough  should  be  very  soft;  let  rise  over 
night;  in  the  morning  break  into  small  pieces  the  size  of  an  egg. 
work  these  into  rather  flat  cakes  and  place  them  in  a  buttered 
pan;  set  them  half  an  inch  apart,  cover  the  pan,  set  for  about  2 
hours  in  a  warm  place  till  the  bims  have  risen  double  their  original 
size.     Currants  may  be  added  if  liked. 

CORN  CRUST. 
(Alabama.) 
Take  i  pt.  of  corn  meal,  i  pt.  of  boiling  water,  i5<  teaspoonfuls  of 
salt,  I  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  i  egg.  Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the 
meal,  sugar  and  salt,  mix  well,  stir  in  the  beaten  egg  and  spread 
thin  in  a  small  dripping-pan,  smooth  it  with  a  knife  dipped  in  cold 
water  and  score  it.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

45 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

DATE  GEMS. 

Take  I  cupful  dates  cut  fine,  2  cupfuls  sweet  milk,  2  table-spoon- 
fuls melted  butter,  i  spoonful  baking-powder,  3  cupfuls  flour,  1 
egg.  Sift  baking-powder,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  through  the  flour, 
beat  the  egg,  add  the  melted  butter,  then  stir  in  the  milk.  Slowly 
add  sifted  flour,  beating  thoroughly  to  prevent  lumps,  add  dates, 
bake  in  hot  buttered  gem  pans  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

Take  i  heaping  tea  saucer  of  graham  flour,  ^  tea-cup  of  white 
flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  with  water  till  somewhat  thicker 
than  griddle  cakes.  In  the  meantime  have  the  gem  tins  a  little 
greased,  heating  on  top  of  the  stove.  Bake  25  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven  — Mrs.  Temple. 

CREAM  MUFFINS. 

Take  2  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  in  a  bowl,  beat  4  eggs  very  light, 
and  add  to  them  i'-^  cupfuls  of  milk  and  i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Pour  this  mixture  upon  the  flour  and  beat  very  thoroughly,  then 
add  I  cup  of  cream  and  beat  again;  have  iron  gem  pans  heated  and 
buttered  and  fill  them  two-thirds  full.  Bake  40  minutes  in  a  rather 
quick  oven. 

SALLY   LUNN. 

Take  i  egg  well  beaten,  i  pt.  flour,  3  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder, 
I  cup  milk,  butter  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  melted,  2  table-spoonfuls 
sugar.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Drumm. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

About  8  or  9  A.  M.  mix  in  a  stone  pot  i  pt.  sweet  milk  (boiled 
in  summer  to  keep  sweet),  ^4  lb.  butter,  melted  in  some  of  the 
milk,  3^  pts.  sifted  flour,  3  eggs,  salt,  yeast  and  a  little  sugar.  Put 
in  muffin  rings  114  hours  before  tea,  bake  20  minutes. 

—3Trs.  Clark. 

46 


BREAD  AXD  IU< /lAKJ-ASJ'  CAKES 

SWEET  POTATO   PONE. 
(This  receipt  was  brought  from  the  Island  of  B.-irbadoes  nearly  200 

years  ago.) 
Wash,  peel  and  grate  the  best  quality  of  sweet  potatoes.  Measure 
5  teacupfuls  into  a  large  bowl.  Into  this  stir  3  teacupfuls  of  best 
West  India  molasses,  2  teacupfuls  of  butter  (melt  the  butter  carefully 
but  do  not  let  it  get  oily),  i  teacupful  of  preserved  ginger  cut  into 
bits,  I  teacupful  preserved  orange-peel  chopped  small,  i  teaspoonful 
salt,  I  table-spoonful  of  pounded  ginger  and  2  table-spoonfuls  of 
pounded  spices,  allspice,  cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon.  Mix  all 
thoroughly  together.  Grease  well  a  plain  cake  pan,  pour  the  pone 
in  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  It  should  look  dark  and 
rather  clear  when  properly  baked,  and  like  a  dark,  rich  preserve. 
Try  with  a  knife.  When  the  blade  comes  out  clean,  it  is  done.  Let 
it  get  cold  before  taking  from  the  pan. 

ZIMMET  KUCHEN. 

Take  2  cups  light  bread  dough,  yolk  of  i  egg,  y'l  cup  sugar,  2 
table-spoonfuls  butter.  Mix  thoroughly,  add  a  little  flour,  roll  about 
Yz  an  inch  thick,  spread  in  square  tin  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise;  let  stand  till  a  slight  crust  is  formed  on  the  top.  Then 
spread  with  white  of  egg,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon,  cover  with  light 
brown  sugar  and  put  small  bits  of  butter  over  it,  sprinkle  again 
with  cinnamon  and  bake  in  hot  oven;  put  sqtiare  tin  over  top  and 
keep  covered  till  cake  is  done.  Remove  and  brown  top.  Great 
care  must  be  taken  not  to  scorch.     Nice  with  cofYee. 

ZWIEBACK. 

Stir  3  cups  of  sifted  flour  into  2  cups  of  scalded  and  cooled  milk, 
to  which  has  been  added  i  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  i  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast,  softened  in  Yi  a  cup  of  scalded  milk  or  water.  Let 
the  sponge  rise  till  light,  then  add  to  it  ^  of  a  cup  of  butter  softened, 
Y2  a  cup  of  sugar,  3  eggs  and  flour  to  make  a  dough  as  stiffs  as 
bread.     Knead  till   elastic  and   allow   it  to   rise  till   it   has  doubled 

47 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

its  bulk.  Shape  into  long  loaves  and  bake  slowly.  When  cold 
cut  into  slices  Y^  an  inch  thick  and  brown  in  the  oven,  or  dry  in  a 
slow  oven  without  browning. 


CAKES 


The  nymph  the  table  spread, 

Ambrosial  cates,  with  nectar  roses  red." — Pope. 


ALMOND   CREAM   CAKE. 

Take  2  cups  powdered  sugar,  J4  cup  butter,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  3 
cups  flour,  2^  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten 
very  light,  Yi  teaspoonRtl  vanilla.  Bake  in  4  layers.  Whip  i  cup 
sweet  cream,  stir  gradually  into  it  Y^  cup  powdered  sugar,  a  few 
drops  of  vanilla  and  i  lb.  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  fine. 
Spread  thick  between  layers.     Frost  top  and  sides. — Mrs.  Clark. 

ALMOND  MACAROONS. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  Y2  lb.  almonds,  take  skins  off  and  throw 
into  cpld  water  for  a  few  moments,  then  take  out,  add  a  table-spoon- 
ful essence  of  lemon  and  pound  to  a  smooth  paste;  add  i  lb.  of 
pulverized  sugar  and  whites  of  3  eggs,  and  work  the  paste  well 
together  with  back  of  spoon.  Dip  the  hands  in  water,  roll  mix- 
ture into  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg  and  lay  on  buttered  paper  an 
inch  apart;  when  done,  dip  the  hands  in  water  and  pass  gently  over 
the  macaroons,  making  the  surface  smooth  and  shining;  set  in  a 
cool  oven  ^  of  an  hour. — Mrs.  L.  S.  W. 

48 


CAKES 

APPLE  FRUIT-CAKE. 

Take  3  cups  of  dried  apples  soaked  over  night,  cliop  fine  and 
boil  for  2  hours  or  more  in  2  cups  of  New  Orleans  molasses.  Take 
I  cup  of  butter,  i  cup  of  sugar,  J/2  cup  of  milk,  2  eggs,  1/2  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda.  Spice  to  taste.  Flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  pound  cake, 
or  about  4  cups.     Improved  by  a  little  citron. — jMiss  Smiley. 

BLACK  CAKE. 

Take  i  lb.  butter,  i  lb.  Hour,  14  ozs.  sugar,  i  gi.  of  molasses,  4 
lbs.  raisins,  2  lbs.  currants,  2  lbs.  citron,  i  wine  glass  of  wine,  i 
wine  glass  of  brandy,  ^  oz.  cloves,  J/2  oz.  nutmeg,  ^  oz.  cinna- 
mon, 10  eggs.     Mother  Helen. 

BUCKEYE  KISSES. 

Beat  the  whites  of  4  small  eggs  to  a  high,  firm  froth,  stir  into 
this  Yz  lb.  pulverized  sugar,  flavor  with  essence  of  lemon,  con- 
tinue to  beat  till  very  light.  Then  place  on  well-buttered  letter- 
paper  drops  half  the  size  of  an  egg  and  a  little  more  than  an  inch 
apart.  Lay  the  paper  on  a  ^-inch  board  and  place  in  a  moderate 
oven.  As  soon  as  the  drops  begin  to  look  yellowish  take  them 
out.  Or  beat  to  a  stifif  froth  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  stirring  into  them 
very  gradually  2  teacups  powdered  sugar  and  2  table-spoonfuls 
corn-starch;  bake  on  buttered  tins  in  a  warm  oven  15  minutes, 
or  till  slightly  brown.  Chocolate  pufTs  are  made  by  adding  2  ozs. 
grated  chocolate  mixed  with  the  corn-stan-h. — JMrs.    W.    H'.   W. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

(With    Marsh-Mallow   Filling.) 

Put  Yi  cake  Baker's  chocolate,  ^  cup  milk,  J/>  cup  sugar,  yolk  of 
I  egg  in  a  double-boiler  and  cook  till  smooth.  Mix  together 
well  Y2  cup  sugar,  Y2  cup  butter,  i  egg  and  yolk  of  another,  Y2  cup 
milk,  Y2  cup  flour  and  add  the  cooked  part,  then  stir  in  gently  1Y2 
cups  flour,   Y2   teaspoonful  saleratus  dissolved   in    i    table-spoonful 

4<) 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

of  boiling  water  and  3  teaspoonfuls  vanilla.  For  the  rnarsh-mallow 
frosting,  take  i  cup  sugar,  yi  cup  water,  ;^  lb.  of  marsh-mallows. 
Boil  all  together  till  smooth. — Mi^s.   Fancher. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Take  4  ozs.  of  grated  chocolate,  4  ozs.  of  granulated  sugar,  4  ozs. 
of  flour,  3  ozs.  of  butter,  4  eggs,  i  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  by  beating  together,  then  mix  the 
chocolate,  fiour  and  soda  with  the  butter  and  sugar,  after  these  in- 
gredients are  well  mixed,  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  one  by  one,  have 
ready  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stif¥  froth  and  add  quickly, 
pouring  the  whole  into  a  pan  lined  with  well-buttered  paper.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  ^  hour. — Mrs.  Morton. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Take  ^  cupful  of  butter,  2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  2  cupfuls  of  flour, 
Yi  cupful  coffee  (hot),  ^  cupful  of  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla,  2  eggs,  i  square  of  chocolate,  rub  • 
the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  then  the 
milk.  Grate  the  chocolate  fine,  and  add  to  it  the  cofifee,  which 
should  be  very  hot,  stir  well,  and  gradually  add  this  mixture  to  the 
butter,  sugar  and  eggs.  Sift  the  powder  and  the  flour  together, 
add  the  flour,  beating  well,  and  then  put  in  the  vanilla.  Bake  in 
one  loaf  for  40  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CLOVE  COOKIES. 

Take  3  lbs.  of  flour,  i  lb.  of  sugar,  i  lb.  of  butter,  i  oz.  of  cloves, 
wet  with  molasses  enough  to  roll  very  thin.     Bake  quickly. 

Miss  Boyd. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES. 

Take  i^^  cupfuls  of  sugar,  1^2  cupfuls  of  butter,  Y-i  cupful  ice- 
water,  ><  box  cocoanut,  i  egg,  i  teaspoonful  baking-powder,  flour. 

Mrs.    Fancher. 

SO 


CAKES 

CRULLERS. 

Three  lbs.  fiour,  i  lb.  sugar,  ]A  lb.  butter,  lo  eggs,  4  spoonfuls  of 
milk.  The  butter  and  flour  must  be  rubbed  together,  the  sugar  and 
eggs  well  beaten  together,  the  nutmegs  grated  over  these  ingredi- 
ents. Roll  thin  and  cut  in  oblong  pieces  with  a  jagging  iron. 
Make  slits  ^  an  inch  apart  across  these  without  cutting  through 
the  edges,  then  braid  the  strips  in  and  out  with  the  fingers.  Fry  in 
hot  lard  till  brown. — Miss  Pntyn. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

Two  small  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  i  cup  of  butter,  whites  of  8 
eggs  well  beaten,  3  cups  of  flour,  ^'2  cup  of  milk,  i  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar,  Yz  teaspoonful  of  soda. — JMothcr  Helen. 

MRS.   PARKER'S  DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cup  of  coffee  sugar,  i  qt.  of  flour,  i  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
2  teaspoon fuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  rubbed 
fine  in  the  flour,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  milk 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Season  with  ground  cinnamon  or 
any  other  spice  preferred.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 

FIG  CAKE. 

Take  4J-J  cups  flour,  I'j  cups  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  raisins, 
2  cups  figs,  I  cup  of  almonds,  2  table-spoonfuls  honey,  season  to 
taste  with  spice.  Add  6  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  Yi  cup  milk,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  baking-powder. 

FRENCH  LOAF  CAKE. 

Take  2,Y2  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  i^  cups  of  butter,  i  cup  of 
milk,  3  eggs,  5  cups  of  sifted  flour,  i  wine-glass  of  brandy,  1  nutmeg, 
grated,  Y2  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda,  i  lb.  of  raisins  stoned,  '  _.  lb. 
of  citron.  Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  part  of  the 
flour  with  the  milk,  warmed  a  little,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs. 
Then  add  with  the  remainder  of  the  flour,  the   whites  of  the  eggs 

51 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

well  beaten,  the  spice,  brandy  and  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling 
water.  Mix  all  well  together,  then  add  the  fruit.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  about  i  hour  — Mrs.    Widdeiner. 

NEW  YORK  GINGERBREAD. 
Cream  together  i  heaping  cup  of  butter  with  2  cups  of  sugar  and 
6  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger.  Break  2  eggs  into  this  and  beat 
thoroughly,  then  add  i  cup  of  milk  and  3  cups  of  flour  which  has 
been  sifted  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Butter  the  pan 
well  and  bake  with  care.  When  the  cake  rises  and  looks  brown 
open  the  oven  door  a  little  until  done. — Mrs.  Robbins. 

GINGERBREAD. 
Take  i  cup  of  butter  or  sweet  drippings,  i  cup  of  molasses,  i  cup 
of  brown  sugar,  i  cvip  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  soda  in  the  milk,  i  table-spoonful  of     ginger,   i  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice,  2  eggs,  3  cups  of  flour. 

— Mrs.  Drumni. 

HERMITS. 
Take  lYz  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  i  cup  chopped  raisins,  2  eggs, 
J4  teaspoonful  soda,  2  large  spoons  milk,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nut- 
meg to  taste.     Roll  a  little  thicker  than  cookies. 

HICKORY-NUT  CAKES. 
Take  i  egg,  y^  cup  flour,  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  nuts  sliced  fine.     Put 
on  buttered  tins,  two  inches  apart,  drops  of  i  teaspoonful  in  size  or 
roll  and  bake. — Mrs.  Lamb,  Belief ontaine,  Ohio. 

JUMBLES. 
Take  i  lb.  flour,  3  eggs,  Vi  lb.  butter,  Yi  lb.  granulated  sugar,  y> 
glass  brandy.     Mix  well  together  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar  instead 
of  flour. 

These  are  delicious,  but  are  difficult  to  make  in  warm  weather, 
as  the  dough  must  be  kept  cold  to  work  it  properly. 

—Mrs.  Clark. 

52 


CAKES 

GRANDMOTHER'S  JUMBLES. 

Take  4  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  i  nutmeg.  Flavor  with 
lemon,  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  and  roll  very  thin  in 
sugar  — 3/rs.  Dnnimt. 

MRS   GANSEVOORT'S  JUMBLES. 
Take  i  lb.  flour,  i  lb.  sugar,  i  lb.  butter,  10  eggs.     Beat  the  sugar 
and  butter  well  together,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  beat  thorougly, 
then  put  in  the  well-beaten  whites,  and  last  of  all,  a  part  of  a  grated 
nutmeg.     Add  flour  enough  to  stiffen  and  roll,  making  rings. 

—  Cailicritie  Ganscvoort  Latisint:;. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  CAKE. 

Take  i  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  of  flour,  4  eggs,  i  cup  of  milk, 
2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder.  Bake  in  thin  layers.  Filling  —  3 
cups  maple  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  dessert-spoonful  of  butter.  Boil  2u 
minutes,  take  from  the  fire,  beat  till  smooth  and  light  and  spread 
between  the  layers. — Mrs.  Luther  Tucker. 

OLE  KOEKS. 

Take  i  qt.  milk,  ij^  lb.  butter,  2  lbs.  sugar  (coffee),  g  eggs,  i 
nutmeg  grated  over  raisins  and  citron,  i  teacupful  of  yeast,  flour 
enough  to  roll,  mix  the  above  ingredients  and  let  stand  over  night. 
Cut  citron  in  small  pieces,  stone  raisins,  put  some  brandy  and  milk 
on  them  and  let  stand  over  night,  add  nutmeg.  If  light  in  the 
morning,  make  balls,  putting  in  the  filling  of  raisins  and  citron. 
Fry  about  S  minutes  in  hot  lard.  Do  not  knead  but  cut  off  square 
pieces  and  pat  into  shape,  turn  up  corner,  insert  raisins  and  citron. 

— I\[iss    Pruyu. 

PEANUT  COOKIES. 

Cream  together  2  rounded  table-spoonfuls  of  butter  and  5^  cupful 
sugar,  add  i  egg,  i  cupful  pastry  flour,  or  %  cupful  bread  flour,  i 
teaspoonful  baking-powder,  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  table-spoonfuls 
milk,    I    cupful   chopped  peanuts.     Do   not  attempt  to   roll  them. 

53 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

Drop  b}'^  the  teaspoonful  onto  buttered  tins  about  2  inches  apart 
In  baking,  they  will  spread  out  flat.  If  too  thick,  add  a  little  milk 
cautiously,  but  do  not  have  the  mixture  thin  enough  to  spread 
when  it  is  dropped  onto  the  pan.  These  cookies  improve  by 
keeping. 

SCOTCH   CAKE. 

Take  i^  lbs.  flour,  54  lb.  powdered  sugar,  12  ozs.  butter,  2  ozs. 
lard,  warm  flour  and  sugar,  whip  butter  and  lard  to  a  cream  and  add 
to  flour  and  sugar.  It  will  be  in  crumbs  which  must  be  pressed 
together  with  the  hands  into  small  cakes.     Bake  till  a  light  brown. 

— 3Irs.  Frcd'k  C.  Manning. 

SPONGE   CAKE. 

Take  10  eggs,  i  lb.  sugar,  1-2  lb.  flour,  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
I  lemon.  Beat  eggs  separately.  Beat  in  gently  the  sugar,  some  into 
whites,  and  some  into  yolks.  Now  beat  these  together,  stir  in 
very  gently,  first  the  flour,  then  the  lemon.  Use  egg  beater,  not  a 
spoon.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  45  minutes. 

— Mrs.  D  nan  in. 

RICH  PLUM  CAKE. 

Take  i  lb.  butter,  i]^  lbs.  sugar,  i  lb.  flour,  11  eggs,  3  lbs.  raisins, 
stoned,  3  lbs.  English  currants,  4  ozs.  Madeira  wine,  4  ozs.  brandy, 
I  lb.  citron,  3  nutmegs,  ^  oz.  mace,  Y>  oz.  cinnamon,  i  cup  mo- 
lasses.    Bake  from  3  to  4  hours. — Miss  ^-J.   J'.  7?.  Russfll. 

VANITY  CAKE. 

Top  layer — i^  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  i  cup  milk,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  baking-powder,  whites  of  2  eggs.  Bottom  layer  —  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  I  cup  brown  sugar,  Yz  cup  butter,  i  cup  milk,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  baking-powder,  i  table-spoonful  brandy.  Chop  fine  yi 
lb.  blanched  almonds,  ^  lb.  citron,  Vi  lb.  raisins.  Mix  together 
with  two  cups  flour,  make  into  2  layers,  with  boiled  icing 
between.     Dredge  fruit  with  flour. 

54 


PUDDINGS,  PASTRY,  Etc. 

'■  Solid  piuldiii'C  ;i<fainst  em]>ty  praise.'"-  I\>pf. 

AXGEL  CHARLOTTE. 

Make  a  loaf  of  angel  cake.  When  cool  cut  out  the  center  care- 
fully, leaving  an  outer  Wall  of  an  inch  or  more.  Fill  with  a  char- 
lotte russe,  cover  with  a  lid  cut  from  top  of  center  taken  out,  and  ice 
the  whole  with  boiled  icing.  Scatter  over  this  powdered  macaroons 
or  candied  violets. 

BAVARIAN  CREA^f. 

Flavor  with  wine  or  vanilla  i  pint  of  cold  cream.  Sweeten  to 
taste  and  whip  to  a  froth.  Boil  i  pt.  of  rich  milk  and  make  a  cus- 
tard with  3  or  4  eggs,  sweeten  and  flavor  and  while  hot  add  Yi  a 
box  of  gelatine  soaked  in  a  warm  place  i  hour  in  ^  a  cup  of  water 
or  wine.  When  it  is  quite  cold  and  begins  to  thicken,  stir  till 
smooth.  Then  stir  in  lightly  the  whipped  cream  till  well  mixed. 
Place  in  moulds  and  set  on  ice.  Any  seasonable  fruit  may  be  added 
if  the  cream  is  made  without  wine. 

BEIGNETS  DE  POMMES. 

(For  the  Chafing-Dish.) 

Soft,  tart  apples,  brandy,  lemon-juice,  powdered  sugar,  flour,  3 
table-spoonfuls  l)utter,  cinnamon.  Peel  apples  and  remove  the  pips, 
cut  in  round  slices,  flavor  by  plun^^ing  them  into  a  mixture  of 
brandy,   lemon-juice  and  sugar.     Drain  them   and  dust  with   flour. 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

put  butter  in   chafing-dish,  when  very  hot  fry  the  sUces  on  both 
sides,  sprinkle  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  serve  hot. 

— Mrs.  Evans. 

BERRY  PUDDING. 
Take  3  cups  flour,  i  cup  molasses,  Yi  cup  milk,  i  teaspoonful  sal- 
eratus  dissolved  in  a  very  little  hot  water,  a  little  salt,  i  qt.  berries. 
Boil  lYz  hours,  or  till  well  done.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

—Miss  A  .   V.  R.  Russell. 

BISCUIT  GLACE. 
Boil  y2  cup  water  and  %  cup  sugar  3^  hour,  in  a  double  boiler. 
Then  stir  3  well-beaten  eggs  into  the  boiling  syrup.  Beat  all  to- 
gether 8  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire  and  set  on  ice  till  very  cold. 
Beat  once  more,  lightly  and  add  i  pt.  of  stififly-whipped  cream  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Put  in  tin  boxes,  lined  with  paper,  so  it 
can  be  lifted  out  easily.  Then  place  crumbs  of  18  grated  macaroons 
on  top  and  cover  tightly.  Pack  in  ice  for  4  hours.  This  makes  a 
quart  — Miss  Monteath. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 
Fill  a  small  earthen  dish  with  milk,  break  into  it  about  2  slices  of 
stale  bread.  Stand  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove  till  bread  has  swelled, 
and  milk  is  hot.  Take  from  the  stove  and  when  cool  add  2  well- 
beaten  eggs  and  sugar  to  taste.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  cinnamon 
and  put  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Bake  till  set,  but  no  longer.  About 
20  minutes  or  ^  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

— JMrs.  Drufnm. 

CAFE  MOUSSE. 
Yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  well.  Mix  in  ^  cup  of  granulated  sugar. 
Add  y2  cup  of  black  cofifee  very  hot  and  mix  well  together.  Put 
in  milk  boiler  and  stir  on  the  fire  till  it  thickens.  When  cold  add  i 
pt.  of  whipped  cream.  Mix  together  very  thoroughly.  Put  in  form 
and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  4  hours  or  more. 

— Mrs.  Luther  Tucker. 

56 


/  Y  'PDIXCS,    PA  S  7  7v' ) ',    /:  TC. 

CLARA  LOUISE  PUDDING. 
Take  i  pt.  milk,  2  cu]),s  flour,  4  eggs,  i  tcaspoonful  salt,  J4  tea- 
spoonful  soda  dissolved  in  IkjI  water.  Slice  8  apples,  and  cook  a 
short  time  on  top  of  stove,  pour  the  batter  over  them  and  bake  i 
hour.  Eat  hot  with  hard  sauce.  Peaches  maj'  be  used  instead  of 
ai)i)les. 

COFFEE  CREAM. 

Dissolve  I  oz.  of,  gelatine  in  V-'  pt.  of  water,  Yz  pt.  strong  coflfee. 
Put  all  with  I  pt.  of  milk,  sweeten,  and  boil  10  minutes.  When  cool 
add  I  pt.  cream,  stir  well  and  pour  into  a  mould. 

— Mrx.  L II flier  Tucker. 

COMPOTE  OF  APPLES. 

Peel,  core  and  quarter  firm,  tart  apples,  put  in  a  porcelain-lined 
dish  and  place  in  the  oven  with  about  i  cup  water  to  i  qt.  apples. 
Add  I  cup  sugar  and  yellow  peel  of  Yi  lemon  cut  in  bits,  cover  dish 
with  a  china  plate  and  cook  apples  34  hour,  when  they  should  be 
thoroughly  done,  but  whole  and  nearly  transparent.  Cool  a  little 
of  the  juice,  and  if  it  is  not  yet  a  jelly,  boil  down  to  one.  Remove 
apples  to  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  served.  For  this  amount  of 
apples,  add  i  table-spoonful  of  brandy  to  the  jelly,  and  pour  jelly 
over  the  cooked  apples.  Let  them  stand  for  at  least  24  hours  to 
become  thoroughly  set.     Serve  with  whi])])ed  cream. 

--Mrs.  Clark. 

CREAM    TIE. 

Take  ^4  cup  tlour.  Y\  cup  butter,  i  heaping  table-spoonful  sugar, 
I  egg.  Filling —  i  cup  cream,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  whites  of  3  eggs,  3 
round  table-spoonfuls  sugar,  i  round  table-spoonful  flour,  Yi  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla.     Keep  whites  of  egg  for  top. 

— Fra  i/ii's  St  ill  III  a  11 . 

57 


.  CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

CREAM    PUDDING. 

Mix  tYi  ozs.  of  sugar,  ^  pt.  of  cream  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 
Then  stir  in  lightly  the  whites  of  3  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Have  a  dish  covered  with  stale  bread  crumbs  to  the 
usual  depth  of  a  crust,  pour  in  the  pudding,  cover  the  top  evenly 
with  the  line  crumbs  and  bake. 

DATE  PUDDING. 

Take  i  cupful  sour  milk,  i  cupful  sugar  or  molasses,  i  spoonful 
butter,  I  teaspoonful  soda,  spices  to  taste,  i  lb.  dates  stoned.  Stir 
quite  stiff  with  graham  flour,  and  steam  2  hours.  Serve  with  cream 
and  sugar. 

DEVONSHIRE  CREAM. 

Put  a  pan  of  milk  in  a  cool  place  for  24  hours.  Then  place  the 
pan  on  back  of  the  range  and  heat  the  milk  slowly  to  the  boiling 
point  without  letting  it  boil.  Then  put  the  pan  in  a  cool  place  from 
6  to  12  hours.  At  the  end  of  this  time  skim  off  the  cream  which  will 
be  found  firm  and  of  a  peculiarly  sweet  flavor.  In  very  hot  weather 
the  cream  may  be  scalded  after  it  has  stood  12  hours.  This  cream 
is  eaten  on  mush,  fruit,  blanc-mange,  toast,  etc. — Miss  Clark. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Take  ^4  lb.  grated  bread,  boil  i^  pts.  milk  and  pour  it  on  the 
grated  bread  and  then  let  it  cool.  Add  ]^  teaspoonful  salt.  Take 
lYi  lbs.  currants,  ij4  lbs.  raisins,  strew  over  then  3  table-spoonfuls 
flour,  ^  lb.  brown  sugar,  ^  lb.  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  i  grated 
nutmeg,  i  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  i  of  cloves,  the  grated  peel  and 
juice  of  I  large  lemon  or  orange.  Stir  8  eggs  gradually  into  the 
bread  and  milk,  add  by  degrees  the  sugar  and  spice,  and  Yz  lb.  of 
flour  with  a  glass  of  brandy,  Y-z  lb.  citron.  Mix  the  whole  very  well 
and  stir  hard.     Boil  4  or  5  hours. 

58 


p('j)/)/\c;s,  r.is/'KV,  ETC. 

FTG   PUDDING. 

Cover  I  lb.  of  figs  with  boiling  water  till  soft.  Pour  off  the  water 
and  dip  each  fig  in  Sherry  or  Madeira.  Place  in  dish  and  cover 
with  whipped  cream  sweetened  to  taste. — Miss  Neivcomb., 

FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Take  i  large  cup  bread  crumbs,  i  cup  milk,  '  j  cup  sugar,  i  table- 
spoonful  butter,  3  eggs.  Soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk,  cream  the 
butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  pour  this  over  the  crumbs  and 
milk  and  stir  in  the  whites  lightly  at  the  last.  Pour  over  the  fruit. 
Strawberries  or  peaches  are  nice.     Bake  about  20  minutes. 

GINGER  CREAM. 

Soak  J4  of  a  box  of  gelatine  for  Yi  hour  in  ■  j  cup  of  milk.  Stand 
over  hot  water  till  dissolved.  Add  4  table-spoonfuls  powdered 
sugar.  Sprinkle  over  them  i  pt.  whipped  cream,  2  table-spoonfuls 
of  syrup  from  jar  of  preserved  ginger  and  2  of  chopped  ginger  and 
then  turn  in  the  gelatine  through  a  seive.  Stir  till  the  cream  begins 
to  thicken  and  stand  away  in  little  molds.  Turn  out  and  garnish 
with  bits  of  preserved  ginger. — Mrs.  Evans. 

GOOSEBERRY  FOOL. 

Stew  I  qt.  of  berries,  beat  6  eggs  with  as  much  sugar  as  necessary 
and  stir  in  the  berries  with  i  pt.  of  cream  till  the  mixture  thickens. 

— Miss  Barnard. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

Take  i  pt.  milk,  i  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  cups  flour,  2  leaspoonfuls 
baking-powder,  i  teaspoonful  salt,  3  eggs,  i  pt.  berries.  Put  in  tin 
boiler  and  steam  3  hours.     Serve  with  either  hard  or  liquid  sauce. 


CHOICE  Rl'CEIPTS 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 
Take  i  qt.  milk,  i  cup  cornmeal  boiled  in  the  milk.  When  cool 
add  2  eggs,  i  cup  of  molasses  (part  sugar  if  preferred),  piece  of  but- 
ter half  as  large  as  an  egg,  large  spoonful  ginger  and  a  little  cinna- 
mon. When  ready  pour  a  little  cold  milk  on  top.  Bake  about  i 
hour.     Esft  with  butter. 

ITALIAN  CREAM. 
Take  2  table-spoonfuls  of  gelatine,  dissolved  in  a  little  water  or 
cream,   on  the  fire.     To   i   pt.   of  cream,   whipped,    sweetened,   and 
llavored  to  taste,   add  the  gelatine   and   stir  it  well.     Pour   into   a 
mould,  and  set  it  away  to  cool.     Very  good  with  jelly. 

MINCE  MEAT. 
Boil  5  lbs.  lean  beef  JJ/  hour.  Chop  very  fine  with  i  lb.  suet. 
Boil  the  skin  of  4  lemons  Yi  hour,  chop  fine  with  the  lemons  from 
which  the  seeds  have  been  removed  and  mix  well  with  the  chopped 
beef.  Add  2  lbs.  washed  currants,  2  lbs.  washed  sultana  raisins,  2 
lbs.  citron  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  i  pk.  sound,  chopped  apples,  J/2 
oz.  ground  cinnamon,  ^A  oz.  ground  cloves,  ^  oz.  ground  allspice, 
a  table-spoonful  salt,  i  pt.  molasses,  sugar  to  taste,  moisten  with 
sweet  cider  and  boil  long  enough  to  cook  the  apples.  Do  not  burn. 
Then  add  a  qt.  of  brandy  and  put  in  jars.  When  used  pour  a 
glass  of  good  sherry  into  each  pie  just  before  it  is  pufin  the  oven. 

— Mrs.  Robbins. 

LEMON  PASTE. 
(For  Pies  and  Tarts.) 
Take  i  lb.  loaf  sugar,  6  eggs  (leaving  out  whites  of  2),  3  large 
lemons  (juice  and  grated  rind),  ^  lb.  very  good  butter.  Put  in 
stew-pan,  stir  over  a  slow  fire,  till  it  becomes  thick  like  honey.  Do 
not  boil.  Will  keep  for  years  in  jars  in  a  cool  place.  Bake  crust 
for  tarts,  fill  with  the  paste  while  the  crusts  are  hot,  and  return  to 
the  oven  till  the  paste  is  nicely  melted.  Cover  with  meringue  if 
liked  —Mrs.  Clark. 

60 


rrnn/xcs,  r.isrio',  i.rc. 

.MINCE- MEAT. 

Take  3  bowls  of  chopped  beef,  5  Ixnvls  of  chopped  apples,  i  (p. 
of  brandy.  2  table-spoonfuls  of  ground  cloves.  2  table-spoonfuls  of 
ground  cinnamon.  7  nutmegs,  2  lbs.  of  chopped  suet,  U  lbs.  ot 
brown  sugar,  2  lbs.  of  large  raisins,  chopped,  2  lbs.  citron,  2  lbs.  of 
currants,  i  coffee  cup  of  common  molasses,  i  table-spoonful  and  a 
half  of  salt,  i  table-spoonful  of  pepper,  i  bottle  of  Madeira  (  r  qt.). 
The  beef  and  suet  must  be  chopped  very  fine,  the  currants  washed 
and  raisins  stoned,  before  being  weighed  and  the  mince-meat  not 
cooked.  When  the  pies  arc  made,  if  the  mixtmx  is  found  lo(j  dry, 
add  a  little  Ijrandy.     M.  A'.  / '.  //////. 

GRAND^rOTHER'S  AflNCE-  AIEAT. 

Take  5  pt.  bowls  of  meat,  6  bowls  of  apples.  6  lbs.  of  sugar.  4 
lbs.  raisins,  2  lbs.  currants,  6  qts.  cider,  i  pt.  brandy,  i  lb.  suet,  i  07.. 
each  of  cloves  and  mace,  2  o.^s.  cinnamon,  about  6  or  7  lbs.  of  meat 
required. 

PASTRY. 

Take  i  pt.  flour,  i  cup  of  lard,  y^,  cup  ice-water,  i  teaspoonful  salt, 
chop  the  lard  in  the  t]our  and  mix  with  just  enough  water  to  allow 
the  paste  to  be  rolled  out,  about  J4  of  a  cup,  it  depends  upon  the 
kind  of  flour  used,  pastry  flour  reciuiring  less  water  than  bread 
flour.     This  makes  i  large  pie. 

PEACH  PUDDING. 

Fill  a  baking  dish  ^  full  of  ripe,  juicy  peaches,  pared,  stoned  and 
cut  into  medium-sized  pieces.  Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs;  add  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  3  table-spoonfuls  of  cream,  3  table-spoonfuls 
of  sifted  flour;  add  the  beaten  whites,  and  after  sifting  3  table-spoon- 
fuls of  sugar  over  the  fruit,  pour  on  the  batter.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether, bake  -)4  of  an  hour.     Serve  with  cream. —J/r.?.    Widdciiuf. 

61 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

PRUNE  SOUFFLE. 

Take  2  tea-cups  stewed  prunes,  whites  of  6  eggs.  Beat  the  eggs 
very  thoroughly.  Remove  the  pits  from  prunes,  and  beat  with  the 
whites  thoroughly  together. — Mrs.  Luther  Tucker. 

PUFF  PASTE. 

Take  ^  lb.  of  butter,  ^  lb.  of  pastry  flour,  l'^  cup  of  ice-water. 
Mash  the  butter,  put  it  in  a  cloth  and  let  it  be  very  cold  before 
using.  Sift  and  weigh  the  flour,  remove  i  table-spoonful  for  later 
use,  add  to  the  flour  Y^  teaspoonful  of  salt,  J4  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
add  water  and  knead  to  a  dough,  toss  on  the  board,  roll  out  thin, 
cut  in  half  and  break  the  hardened  butter  in  pieces  and  lay  it  on  one 
half  the  dough,  sprinkle  with  flour  and  lay  on  the  remaining  butter, 
pound  in  the  center,  roll  and  fold,  reverse  the  roll,  pound  at  the 
openings,  then  through  the  center,  continue  rolling  (chilling  if 
necessary),  till  the  paste  looks  smooth.  Cut  into  patties.  Bake  15 
minutes.     Make  very  cold  before  putting  into  the  oven. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Boil  and  strain  the  pumpkin.  Season  with  i  teaspoonful  of  gin- 
ger, butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  suspicion  of  nutmeg,  i  cup  of  milk, 
sugar  to  taste.  Last  thing  add  i  egg  beaten  up  quickly.  Bake  20 
minutes  — Miss  Pruyn. 

RED   PUDDING  NO.   i. 

This  pudding  is  known  as  Rothe  Grutze  in  Sweden,  where  it  is 
a  favorite  dessert.  The  receipt  for  making  it  was  lately  brought  to 
America  by  the  proprietor  of  a  famous  hostelry,  who  stated  that  it 
was  worth  to  him  the  entire  cost  of  his  summer  journeyings.  By 
the  original  formula  fresh  fruits  are  required,  but  we  give  below  an 
additional  receipt,  the  result  of  a  recent  experiment,  by  which  the 

62 


/'r/)/)/.y(;s,  j\isyK]\  arc. 

pudding  may  be  made  when  fresh  fruit  is  not  to  be  had.  Rothe 
Grutze,  as  prepared  in  Sweden,  is  made  as  follows:  Take  equal 
parts  of  red  currants,  raspberries  and  cold  water,  and  to  i  qt.  of  this 
mixture  allow  iJ^S  teacupfuls  of  sugar;  or  if  the  currants  are  very 
acid  and  a  sweet  pudding  is  desired,  increase  the  (luantity  of  sugar 
to  2  cupfuls.  Now  add  2  sticks  of  cinnamon  3  inches  long  and  not 
too  thick,  broken  into  small  bits;  boil  Yi  hour  in  a  porcelain  or 
enameled  kettle  or  saucepan,  and  press  the  whole  through  a  coland- 
er. Next  add  Yi  a  teacupful  of  thinly  sliced  blanched  almonds 
and  the  same  quantity  of  finely  shaved  citron,  and  cook  20  minutes 
longer.  Thicken  the  liquid  with  rice-flour  or  sago  till  it  is  a  little 
stifTer  than  blanc-mange,  and  pour  it  into  a  wet  mould;  turn  it  when 
cold  upon  the  serving  dish,  and  pour  about  it  sweetened  fresh  cream 
or  whipped  cream.  In  Sweden  the  pudding  is  eaten  with  thick  fresh 
cream,  sugar  being  passed  after  it  is  served. 


RED   PUDDING   NO.   2. 

Mix  Y2  pt-  currant  jelly  and  the  same  quantity  of  red  raspberry 
jam  with  I  pt.  of  water,  and  add  2  or  3  sticks  of  cinnamon  2  inches 
long,  well  broken  up.  Boil  till  thoroughly  melted,  then  strain 
through  a  colander.  Return  the  liquid  to  the  kettle,  add  Yi  a  tea- 
cupful  each  of  finely  sliced  blanched  almonds  and  shaved  citron, 
boil  20  minutes,  and  thicken  with  rice-flour  as  in  the  preceding 
receipt.  If  candied  citron  is  not  at  hand,  ordinary  home-made  pre- 
served citron  may  be  sliced  into  the  mixture  just  before  the  last 
boiling  is  completed  and  the  pudding  is  ready  to  mould.  The  pre- 
served citron  should  be  stirred  in  carefully  to  prevent  breaking. 
Owing  to  the  nature  of  its  ingredients,  this  pudding  should  be  care- 
fully sweetened  to  suit  the  taste.  Serve  on  a  pretty  dish,  surround- 
ing the  pudding  with  whipped  and  flavored  cream  or  a  rich  plain 
cream,  and  ornamenting  it,  if  desired,  with  quartered  almonds  thrust 
into  the  top. 

63 


CHOICE  RliC RIFTS 

QUEEN'S  JUBILEE   PUDDING. 

(Canadian  Receipt.) 

Take  3  table-spoonfuls  flour,  i  table-spoonful  corn-starch,  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Mix  together  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Boil  i  pt.  of 
milk,  stir  in  the  mixture,  take  from  the  fire.  When  it  gets  cool 
add  4  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately.  Beat  in  the  yolks, 
stir  in  the  whites,  pour  all  into  a  pudding  dish  and  set  in  a  pan  of 
cold  water.  Steam  J/2  an  hour  in  the  oven.  Serve  with  liquid 
sauce. 

SNOW  BALLS. 

Take  ,3  eggs,  i  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  i  scant  cup  of  sifted  flour, 
the  rind  of  i  lemon,  3  table-spoonfuls  of  water,  2  table-spoonfuls  of 
lemon-juice,  i  table-spoonful  of  baking-powder.  Beat  yolks  of 
eggs,  add  the  sugar,  beat  till  light,  add  water,  lemon-juice  and  rind, 
then  the  beaten  whites  and  lastly  the  flour  and  powder  mixed.  Put 
carefully  in  buttered  earthern  cups  and  steam  30  minutes.  Remove, 
roll  in  powdered  sugar  and  serve  with  strawberry  cream.  Whip  I 
pt.  of  cream  stifif,  sprinkle  with  3  table-spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar 
and  'i    of   a  cup  of  strawberry  jam  rubbed  through  a  sieve. 

SPONGE  PUDDING. 

Take  i  pt.  sweet  milk,  Y^  cup  of  sugar,  J-l  cup  of  flour,  ^  a 
cup  of  butter,  5  eggs.  Wet  flour  with  part  of  milk,  then  add  re- 
mainder and  cook  10  minutes,  add  butter  and  sugar  while  hot. 
When  cool  add  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  then  beaten  whites  and 
stir  thoroughly.  Bake  in  2-qt.  mould,  set  for  ^  an  hour  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water.     Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

64 


PCDD/XGS,   /\ISTK]\    ETC. 

SUNDERLAND  PUDDING. 
Take  5  table-spoonfuls  flour  stirred  into  5  table-spconfuls  milk,  5 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately.  Mix  flour  and  yolks,  beat 
well,  and  stir  in  whites  lightly.  Pour  over  these  i  qt.  of  boiling 
milk.  Bake  in  quick  oven  15  or  20  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  hard 
sauce. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Take  3  table-spoonfuls  tapioca  soaked  over  night  in  water  enough 
to  cover  it  well,  i  pt.  milk.  Boil  together  from  5  to  10  minutes. 
Add  sugar  and  salt  to  taste.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool 
add  2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately.  Flavor  with  i  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla.  Or  the  whites  of  the  eggs  may  be  beaten  with 
powdered  sugar  for  meringue.  A  half  cup  of  prepared  cocoanut 
may  be  added  to  this  pudding  if  liked.  Grate  nutmeg  over  it  and 
bake  till  custard  is  set. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING  FOR  ROAST  BEEF. 
Take  4  eggs,  4  table-spoonfuls    flour,    i     pt.    milk,    salt.     Bake 
quickly  till  a  rich  brown. — Mis.  Rabbins. 

ICE   CREAM. 

Boil  I  qt.  of  milk  with  i  lb.  of  sugar.  Blend  i  table-spoonful  of 
corn-starch  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  pour  gradually  into  the  boiied 
milk  and  sugar.  Then  boil  together  for  10  minutes  in  a  farina 
kettle.  After  that  take  it  off  the  range  and  strain  through  a  fine 
sieve.  When  cold  add  21/  pts.  of  cream.  Beat  together  the  yolks 
of  6  eggs  and  whites  of  2  to  a  cream  and  then  add  to  it  J/2  pt.  of 
cream.  Mix  this  slowly  and  gradually  with  the  other  part  and  then 
put  in  the  freezer.  Flavor  to  taste  and  do  not  stop  turning  the 
freezer  for  a  moment. — Miss  Pniyn. 

MILLE   FRUIT  ICE. 

Allow  I  orange,  6  lemons,  i  qt.  of  clarified  sugar,  %  pt.  of  grape 
juice,  Vi,  lb.  of  preserved  fruits  and,  if  desired,  ^4  of  a  pint  of  sherry. 

65 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

Remove  the  zest  of  the  lemons  with  a  few  lumps  of  sugar,  and  use 
the  latter  in  making-  the  clarified  sugar,  to  which  add  the  juice  of 
the  lemons  and  orange,  the  grape  juice,  and  the  sherry.  Freeze  as 
directed.  When  half  frozen,  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs 
mixed  with  2  ozs.  of  sugar,  and  finish  freezing.  Remove  the  beater, 
stir  in  the  preserved  fruit  chopped  into  small  pieces,  and  set  the  ice 
aside  for  2  hours. 

ORANGE  SHERBET. 

The  juice  of  10  cooking  oranges  and  2  lemons,  i  pt.  of  sugar,  i 
qt.  of  water;  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water.  Mix  together,  then 
turn  into  the  can  and  freeze. — Eliza  Doane  Garditier. 

PARFAIT  AU  CAFE. 

Beat  6  ozs.  of  sugar  with  6  egg  yolks,  and  i  pt.  of  cream,  set  the 
saucepan  over  the  fire  and  stir  with  a  wooden  paddle  till  the  mixture 
adheres  to  it  thickly.  Add  4  ozs.  of  coarsely  ground  coffee,  cover 
the  pan  and  let  it  infuse  for  an  hour,  strain  into  the  freezer,  pack 
as  for  ice  cream  and  turn  in  one  direction  for  5  minutes.  Turn 
again  in  an  opposite  direction  and  5  minutes  after  reverse  again. 
It  should  then  be  sufficiently  frozen  and  a  pt.  of  whipped  cream 
should  be  stirred  into  it  with  a  spatula,  a  little  at  a  time.  Pour  all 
into  an  ice-cream  mould,  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  i  hour. 

— Mjs.  Evans. 

RASPBERRY  SHERBET. 

Take  2  qts.  of  raspberries,  i  pt.  of  sugar,  i^  pts.  of  water.  Alash 
the  berries  and  sugar  together  and  let  them  stand  2  hours,  add  the 
water  to  the  raspberries,  strain  and  freeze. 

— Eliza  Doane  Gardiner. 

ROMAN  PUNCH. 

Take  i  qt.  water,  4  lemons  (juice  only),  i  large  cup  of  sugar,  i 
large  wine-glass  sherry,  i  wine-glass  Jamaica  rum,  ^  wine-glass  St. 

66 


rCDDIXCS.    /'AS TRW   ETC. 

Croix  rum,  ^  wine-glass  Cura9oa.     Mix  well  together  and  freeze 
same  as  when  making  ice-cream. — Miss  Pniyn 

ROMAN  PUNCH. 

Prepare  a  very  rich  pineappleade  and  make  it  a  little  tart  with 
lemon-juice,  taking  great  care  that  none  of  the  zest  or  oil  from  the 
yellow  rind  or  the  bitterness  from  the  seeds  or  the  white  portion 
of  the  rind  be  allowed  to  afifect  its  flavor.  This  preparation  must 
be  well  frozen  but,  being  very  rich,  it  will  form  only  a  semi  ice. 
Half  an  hour  before  the  punch  is  to  be  served,  work  into  it 
thoroughly  i  gi.  of  old  Jamaica  rum  and  I2  pt.  of  the  best  cham- 
pagne to  every  qt.  of  the  frozen  mixture.  After  this  Havoring  has 
been  well  incorporated,  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  sweet- 
ened with  2  ozs.  of  powdered  sugar,  stir  the  whole  vigorously,  turn 
the  crank  a  few  times  more,  and  set  the  punch  aside  till  needed. 

The  history  of  punch  a  la  romaine  is  rather  a  curious  one  and  is 
not  generally  known.  The  punch  was  for  nearly  a  century  the  fav- 
orite summer  refreshment  of  successive  Popes,  and  their  cooks  were 
bound  in  the  most  solemn  manner  to  preserve  inviolable  the  secret 
of  its  compounding.  When  Napoleon  invaded  Italy  in  1796,  a 
young  son  of  the  chief  confectioner  to  Pius  VI.,  Molas  by  name, 
ran  away  from  his  father  and  his  post  in  the  culinary  department 
of  the  Vatican,  and  united  his  fortunes  with  those  of  the  conqueror. 
He  soon  became  a  favorite  servant  of  the  ill-starred  Josephine,  and 
when  she  died,  he  obtained  a  situation  in  the  kitchen  of  a  Russian 
prince.  This  prince  was  shortly  afterward  appointed  ambassador  to 
the  court  of  St.  James  and,  taking  his  Italian  cook  with  him  to  Lon- 
don, was  the  first  to  introduce  Roman  punch  in  that  city,  greatly 
delighting  his  guests  with  the  new  delicacy.  The  receipt  was  sent 
to  Carlton  House  in  compliance  with  the  wish  of  the  Prince  Regent, 
who  in  turn  permitted  copies  to  be  sent  to  a  select  few  of  his  friends. 
Thus  by  degrees  the  punch  became  widely  known,  while  the  sing- 
ular tale  of  its  origin  was  well-nigh  forgotten. 

67 


BEVERAGES 


"  Ming-les  with  the  friendly  bowl, 

The  feast  of  reason  and  the  flow  of  soul. " — Pope. 

CAUDLE. 

To  S  table-spoonfuls  of  oatmeal  add  2  gals,  water  as  for  starch. 
Pour  on  the  water  boiling  hot,  stir  it  all  the  time.  Let  it  boil  till 
it  becomes  gluey,  add  to  this  i  gal.  wine,  2  lbs.  sugar,  3  lemons  and 
some  raisins. — Mrs.  Brinkcrhoff. 

EGG  LEMONADE. 

Take  6  eggs.  Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately,  add  the  juice 
of  6  lemons,  Yi  lb.  sugar,  mix  with  lemon-juice,  add  yolks  and 
cracked  ice,  then  the  well-beaten  whites.  Serve  with  straws.  For 
six  persons. — Mrs.  Clark. 

EGG    NOGG. 

(Southern  Receipt.) 

Take  the  yolks  of  16  eggs  and  12  table-spoonfuls  of  pulverized 
sugar  and  beat  them  to  the  consistency  of  cream,  add  %  of  a  nut- 
meg grated.  Then  mix  in  i^  pt.  of  good  brandy  or  rum  and  2 
glasses  of  Madeira  wine.  Have  ready  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  beat  them  into  the  mixture.  Then  stir  in  6  pts. 
of  milk.-  Mrs.    Druniu 


A7:  /  'ERA  GliS 

HOCK  CUP. 

Take  equal  parts  of  Hock  and  Londonderry  lithia  water,  put 
them  in  a  clear  crystal  pitcher,  sweetening  with  3  lumps  of  sugar 
to  each  qt.  and  adding  i  or  2  slices  of  pineapple  and  a  long  paring 
of  cucumber  rind.  Let  this  filled  pitcher  stand  for  a  few  minutes 
in  a  pail  of  ice.  Under  no  circumstances  put  ice  in  the  drink  for 
that  would  injure  the  fine  flavor.  Just  before  serving  throw  some 
bits  of  mint  upon  the  top. 

KUxMISS. 

Take  6  large  beer  bottles  and  2  qts.  milk,  putting  73  pt.  in  each 
bottle.  Cut  a  compressed  yeast  cake  into  6  parts,  put  i  part  in 
each  bottle  with  i  teaspoonful  sugar.  Let  ferment  in  a  warm  place 
from  6  to  10  hours.     Put  on  ice. — Miss  Siiiihv. 

ALVTZOON. 

Take  i  qt.  milk,  scald  but  do  not  boil  it.  Let  it  cool.  When 
lukewarm  add  2  table-spoonfuls  of  Dr.  Dadirrian's  matzoon.  Let 
it  stand  in  a  warm  place  till  like  thick  cream.  Then  beat  with 
Dover  egg-beater.  Set  in  a  cool  place.  Save  some  for  setting,  if 
more  is  desired.  If  not  very  sour  jnit  in  3  table-spoonfuls.  If  very 
sour  use  less.  Watch  closely  and  do  not  let  it  stand  in  a  warm 
place  after  it  gets  thick  or  it  will  be  spoiled. — Mrs.  Druiinii. 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES 


' '  Give  no  more  to  every  g-uest 
Than  he's  able  to  dig-est; 
Give  him  alw^ays  of  the  prime, 
And  but  little  at  a  time. ' ' — Swift. 

APPLE  JAM. 

Take  12  lbs.  apples,  sliced,  4  lemons,  10  lbs  brown  sugar,  J4  lb. 
green  ginger,  i  oz.  cloves.  Let  it  stand  for  24  hours,  then  boil. 
The  slices  will  become  an  amber  color  when  the  jam  is  sufficiently 
cooked. — Miss  A.   V.  R.  Russell. 

APPLE  JELLY. 

Slice  and  boil  the  fruit  till  thoroughly  done,  strain  through  a 
coarse  bag  and  to  i  pt.  of  juice  allow  i  lb.  of  sugar.  Let  the  juice 
boil  20  minutes  with  a  few  leaves  of  rose  geranium.  This  gives  a 
delightful  flavor.  Heat  the  sugar  in  pie  pans  in  the  oven,  add  it  to 
the  juice  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil. — Mrs.  D^'umin. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 

Fifteen  cucumbers,  5  onions.  Slice  them  very  thin,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  stand  5  or  6  hours;  pour  off  the  brine  and  cover  with  i  qt. 
of  vinegar,  ^  pt.  olive  oil,  Yi  cupful  of  white  mustard  seed,  Yi  cupful 
black  mustard  seed,  i  table-spoonful  celery  seed. 

— Mrs.  Luther  Tucker. 

70 


PKESERJ^ES  AND  PICKLES 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  currants,  but  do  not  stem  them.  Simmer 
in  a  porcelain  kettle  till  covered  with  their  own  juice.  Squeeze 
through  a  stout  cloth,  or  if  you  wish  the  jelly  very  clear,  let  the 
juice  drip,  but  do  not  press  the  cloth.  To  each  pt.  of  juice,  allow 
I  lb.  of  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  in  pans  in  the  oven.  Let  it  get  hot. 
Stir  frequently.  Boil  the  strained  juice  20  minutes,  then  add  the 
sugar.  Let  all  just  come  to  the  boiling  point,  then  put  in  glasses 
which  have  been  rolled  in  hot  water.     Set  in  the  sun. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

Take  5  lbs.  red  currants,  4  lbs.  brown  sugar,  i  pt.  vinegar,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  ground  cloves,  2  table-spoonfuls  ground  cinnamon.  Boil 
till  thick,  put  in  tumblers  and  seal. — Mrs.    W'iddcmer. 

JIM  JEM. 

Take  6  lbs.  sugar,  i  pt.  brandy,  i  pt.  strawberries,  i  pt.  rasp- 
berries, I  pt.  pineapple,  i  pt.  bananas,  l  pt.  cherries,  i  pt.  black- 
berries. A  large  glass  jar  is  best  for  this  preserve.  One  that  has 
a  tight-fitting  cork.  Put  in  the  brandy  with  i  pt.  strawberries  and 
I  lb.  sugar.  Stir  it  thoroughly  every  day.  Add  the  other  fruits 
with  the  sugar  as  they  can  be  procured.  Bananas  should  be  sliced 
thin,  pineapple  grated.  The  preserve  should  be  stirred  every  day 
during  the  time  of  putting  in  the  fruit  and  some  days  after  in  order 
to  dissolve  the  sugar. 

BRANDIED  PEACHES  OR  PEARS. 

Take  4  lbs.  fruit,  4  lbs.  sugar,  i  pt.  best  white  brandy.  Make  a 
syrup  of  the  sugar  and  enough  water  to  dissolve  it,  let  this  come  to 
the  boil,  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  5  minutes.  Remove  the  fruit 
with  care,  and  let  the  syrup  boil  15  minutes  longer  or  till  it  thickens. 
Add  the  brandy,  and  take  the  kettle  from  the  fire.  Pour  the  hot 
syrup  over  the  fruit  and  seal.     If,  after  the  fruit  is  taken  from  the 

71 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

fire,  a  red  liquor  oozes  out,  drain  it  ofif  before  adding  the  syrup. 
Put  in  glass  jars.  Peaches  and  pears  must  be  peeled  and  pinms 
pricked. 

SWEET  PICKLED  PEACHES. 

Rub  off  the  fur  and  stick  cloves  into  each  peach.  To  every  7  lbs. 
fruit  allow  3  lbs.  sugar.  Boil  15  minutes,  skim  and  add  3  pts.  of 
vinegar,  i  table-spoonful  each  of  allspice,  mace  and  cinnamon; 
put  in  bags.  Boil  all  together  10  minutes,  put  in  peaches  and  boil 
till  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw.  Take  out  the  peaches  and 
boil  the  syrup  till  thick,  pour  it  over  the  fruit  boiling  hot.  Pears 
can  be  done  the  same  way  without  peeling. 

PRESERVED  SECKEL  PEARS. 

Pare  and  cjuarter  the  fruit.  Allow  ^4  lt>.  sugar  to  i  lb.  fruit. 
Sprinkle  sugar  over  fruit  in  alternate  layers  and  let  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  put  over  the  fire,  with  lemon  cut  in  thin  slices, 
allowing  i  lemon  to  3  lbs.  fruit.  Cook  till  tender  and  till  the 
syrup  is  quite  thick.     It  is  dark  and  rich  in  appearance  when  done. 

—Mrs.  Clark. 


PICCALILLI. 

Take  i  pk.  green  tomatoes,  chopped  with  6  or  8  onions,  8  or  10 
green  peppers  with  seeds  taken  out,  and  Yi  a  head  of  cabbage, 
chopped  fine.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  all  night,  then  drain, 
add  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  well,  i  table-spoonful  of  cloves,  2  of 
pepper,  2  of  allspice.  Crack  the  spices  and  tie  up  in  bags,  boil  the 
pickles  I  hour  or  more,  put  up  in  jars  with  a  large  table-spoonful  of 
brown  sugar  to  each  jar.  Mix  through  as  you  put  away  2  ozs.  of 
mustard-seed  and  a  little  horse-radish. 

72 


/'RKSERrhS  AM)  riCKIJiS 

SWEET  PICKLE. 
(For  i)luins.  pears,  peaches  or  otlier  fruil.) 
Take  7  11)s.  fruit.  4  lbs.  brown  sugar,  i  pt.  vinegar,  mace,  cinna- 
mon and  cloves.  Peel  pears  and  peaches,  prick  plums,  put  into  the 
kettle  with  alternate  la^'ers  of  sugar.  Heat  slowly  to  a  boil  and 
add  vinegar  and  spices  tied  in  bags,  boil  5  minutes,  take  out  the 
fruit  and  boil  till  the  syrup  is  thick,  then  pour  on  boiling  hot. 

AIARTHA'S  PICKLES. 
Choose  even-sized  cucumbers,  wipe  without  breaking  the  prickles, 
as  that  makes  them  soft.  Salt  for  24  hours,  then  drain  and  put  into 
jars.  Take  3  pts.  of  vinegar  to  i  pt.  brown  sugar,  add  to  each  pt. 
I  table-spoonful  of  mixed  spices  and  a  small  piece  of  horse-radish. 
Boil  and  cover  your  pickles  with  it  and  let  them  stand  imcovered 
till  cold.     Cover  and  put  away. 

MIXED   PICKLES. 

One-half  pk.  small  cucumbers,  i  qt.  string  beans,  i  qt.  small  white 
onions,  2  cauliflowers,  i  qt.  nasturtium,  3  cents  worth  celery  seed,  2 
<jzs.  white  mustard  seed,  2  ozs.  black  mustard  seed,  J4  lb.  ground 
mustard  mixed  with  ^^  pt.  table  oil,  J/2  cupful  salt.  Put  all  in  stone 
jar  and  pour  scalding  vinegar  over  them.  This  can  be  made 
entirely  of  small  cucumbers  if  desired. 


FOR  INVALIDS 


"  All  blest  secrets, 
All  you  unpublish'd  virtues  of  the  earth, 
Be  aidant  and  remediate."  — Shakspeare. 

ARROWROOT  BLANC-MANGE. 

Take  i  cupful  boiling  milk,  2  dessert-spoonfuls  best  arrowroot, 
rubbed  smooth  in  cold  water,  2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  vanilla  or 
other  essence.  Boil  till  it  thickens  well,  stirring  all  the  while.  Eat 
cold,  with  cream,  flavored  with  rose-water,  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

BARLEY-WATER. 

Put  J4  lb.  pearl-barley  into  2  qts.  water.  Let  it  boil,  skim  it  very 
clear,  boil  it  half  away,  strain  it  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  wine  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.     Drink  lukewarm. 

— IMrs.  Brinkerhoff. 

BARLEY-W.A.TER. 

Put  2  teaspoonfuls  washed  pearl-barley  into  a  saucepan  with  i  pt. 
water,  boil  slowly  down  to  /3    of  a  pt.  and  strain. 

BARLEY  JELLY. 

Put  2  table-spoonfuls  washed  pearl-barley  into  a  qt.  saucepan  with 
iJ/2  pts.  water;  boil  slowly  down  to  i  pt.,  strain  and  allow  liquid  to 
set  into  a  jelly. 

74 


FOR  /WW LIDS 

CHICKEN  JELLY. 
(Very  Nouri.'^hing.) 
Half  a  raw  chicken  pounded  with  a  mallet,  bones  and  meat 
together;  plenty  of  cold  water  to  cover  it  well  (about  i  qt.).  Heat 
slowly  in  a  covered  vessel,  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  meat  is  in  white 
rags  and  the  liquid  reduced  y'y.  Strain  and  press,  first  through 
a  colander,  then  through  a  coarse  cloth.  Salt  to  taste,  and  pepper, 
if  desired;  return  to  fire  and  simmer  s  minutes  longer.  Skim  when 
cool;  give  to  the  patient  cold  from  the  ice,  with  unleavened  wafers; 
keep  on  the  ice.  You  can  make  it  into  sandwiches  by  putting  the 
jelly  between  thin  slices  of  bread  lightly  spread  with  butter. 

FLOUR  B.-\LL. 
Take  I  lb.  good  wheat  flour  (unbolted  is  best),  tie  up  very  tightly 
in  strong  pudding  bag,  place  in  saucepan  of  water  and  boil  steadily 
for  ID  hours.  When  cold  remove  cloth,  cut  ofif  soft  outer  covering, 
and  as  required,  reduce  hard  interior  to  a  powder  by  grating.  When 
using  rub  the  quantity  ordered  to  a  powder,  adding  a  table-spoonful 
of  milk  and  reducing  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  second  table-spoonful 
of  milk  to  give  creamy  mixture  and  add  to  total  quantity  of  liquid 
ordered  for  a  meal. 

LIME  WATER. 
Drop  a  piece  of  unslaked  lime  as  large  as  a  walnut  into  2  qts.  pure 
filtered  water   in  an   earthen  vessel,   stir  thoroughly  and  allow   to 
settle.     Use    only     from     top,     replacing     water    and     stirring     as 
consumed. 

LE.\IONADE. 

\\  hen  the  throat  is  dry  and  irritated,  a  little  weak  slippery  elm 
or  flaxseed  tea  may  be  prepared  and  kept  in  the  ice-box  for  making 
lemonade,  provided  lemons  are  allowed. 

WINE    WHEY. 
Boil  I  pt.  of  milk  in  an  earthenware  or  enameled  saucepan;  as 
soon  as  the  milk  begins  to  rise  in  a  foam,  turn  into  it  2  glasses  of 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

sherry,  stir  thoroughly,  and  then  draw  it  back  where  it  cannot 
scorch,  so  that  it  may  stand  undisturbed  till  the  curd  sets.  Strain 
the  liquid,  sweeten  and  cool  it  by  placing  ice  about  the  vessel. 

SANDWICHES. 

If  the  patient  is  permitted  to  eat  a  little  solid  food,  delicious  and 
nourishing  sandwiches  may  be  made  by  scraping  fresh  beef  on 
which  there  is  no  fat  and  mixing  with  a  little  potted  or  scraped 
boiled  salt  tongue.  Spread  this  mixture  over  thin  slices  of  yester- 
day's bread,  trim  them  neatly  after  the  parts  are  pressed  together, 
and  cut  them  in  2-inch  squares.  Arrange  them  invitingly  upon  a 
pretty  plate  or  upon  a  folded  napkin,  and  serve  on  any  little  dish  or 
tray.     If  no  tongue  is  at  hand,  salt  must  be  added  to  the  beef. 

OATMEAL  OR  CRACKED  WHEAT  WATER. 

Add  I  to  3  table-spoonfuls  well-cooked  oatmeal  or  cracked  wheat 
porridge  to  i  pt.  water,  heat  almost  to  boiling  point,  stirring  con- 
stantly till  smooth,  strain.  The  amount  of  porridge  to  be  added 
varies  from  i  to  3  teaspoonfuls  to  a  pt.  of  water,  according  to  thick- 
ness of  the  porridge,  and  whether  a  thinner  or  thicker  oatmeal 
water  is  desired. 

RAW  BEEF  JUICE. 

Warm  i  lb.  sirloin  beef  in  a  broiler  before  a  quick  fire,  cut  into 
^-inch  cubes,  place  in  lemon  squeezer  or  meat  press  and  forcibly- 
express  juice.  Remove  fat  rising  to  surface  after  cooling.  Never 
actually  cook  the  meat. 


MISCELLANEOUS 

What's  there?  '" 

Thing's  for  the  cook.  sir.  but  I  know  not  what." 


Wlicn  Ijakinsa:  a  cake  do  not  s]ani  the  oven  door  or  the  cake  may 
fall. 

The  coflfee-pot  will  lose  its  musty  odor,  if  a  spoonful  of  borax  is 
boiled  in  it  once  a  week.  A  pinch  of  borax  placed  in  the  coffee 
releases  the  essential  oils  of  the  coffee  and  improves  the  aroma. 

To  keep  fruit  jellies  from  molding,  put  an  even  half  inch  of  sugar 
over  the  top  after  the  jelly  has  cooled  and  then  cover  the  glass  with 
thick  paper  that  has  been  coated  with  white  of  egg. 

When  meats  are  being  roasted  and  there  is  danger  of  their  becom- 
ing too  brown,  place  a  basin  of  water  in  the  oven.  The  steam  will 
prevent  scorching,  and  the  meat  will  cook  better. 

Food  that  has  little  odor  itself  and  food  that  absorbs  odors 
readily  should  be  placed  at  the  bottom  of  the  refrigerator.  All 
foods  with  a  strong  odor  should  be  ke])t  on  the  top  shelves.  Sour 
milk  or  cream  should  not  be  kept  in  the  refrigerator.  Salad  dress- 
ings, tartar  sauce  and  celery  shouUl  be  covered  closely  or  they 
will  flavor  everything  that  is  shut  u])  with  them.  Pineapple,  straw- 
berries and  raspberries  should  not  1)e  shut  into  common  ice  chest 
with  milk  or  cream.  In  the  refrigerators  where  there  is  a  circula- 
tion of  dry  air,  butter,  milk,  cream  and  other  delicate  foods  may  be  kept 
in  the  lower  part  of  the  refrigerator,  and  the  fruits,  vegetables,  etc., 
with  strong  flavors  and  odors  may  be  kept  on  the  top  shelves.  If 
arranged  in  this  wa)',  there  w'lll  be  but  little  danger  that  one  kind  of 
food  will  absorb  the  flavor  or  odor  of  another. 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 

POTPOURRI  OF  LAVENDER. 

(Delicious  for  Linen  Closet.) 

One  lb.  dried  lavender,  i  lb.  dried  rose  leaves,  1/2  lb.  coarsely 
crushed  orris-root,  2  ozs.  broken  cloves,  2  ozs.  cinnamon,  2  ozs. 
allspice,  i  lb.  dry  table  salt.  Keep  in  air-tight  jar  for  a  couple  of 
weeks  before  using. — Mrs.  Clark. 

ROSE  PASTE. 

A  delicate  flavor  of  rose  leaves  is  a  great  addition  to  certain 
cakes  and  confections,  and  a  rose  paste  made  at  home  is  much 
purer  than  many  of  the  extracts  sold  for  the  purpose.  Chop  the 
leaves  of  fragrant  roses  into  a  smooth  mass  with  white  sugar  and 
place  them  in  an  oven  long  enough  to  heat  thoroughly,  but  not 
entirely  melt  the  sugar.  Use  i  cupful  of  the  leaves  to  3  of  sugar. 
Keep  in  air-tight  cans  and  allow  to  stand  6  months  before  opening. 
The  paste  must  be  used  carefully,  only  a  small  quantity  being  neces- 
sary to  flavor  a  large  cake.  A  novelty  at  a  recent  dinner  was  a 
Roman  punch  flavored  in  this  way  with  the  Turkish  preserved  rose 
leaves,  which  may  be  purchased  at  any  store  dealing  in  Oriental 
goods.  Into  an  ordinary  Roman  punch  the  rose  leaves  were  stirred, 
a  few  at  a  time,  until  a  delicate  flavor  was  obtained,  and  the  mix- 
ture was  then  frozen  to  a  soft  and  snowy  consistency  and  served  in 
small  glasses.  Half  a  can  of  the  Turkish  leaves  would  flavor  a 
sufficient  quantity  for  eight  persons. 

TO   CLARIFY   SUGAR   FOR  WATER   ICES. 

To  each  qt.  of  water  allow  2  lbs.  of  granulated  sitgar  and  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  whipped  white  of  t^^.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  boil 
the  liquid  7  or  8  minutes.  All  scum  should  be  carefully  removed 
and  the  syrup  allowed  to  cool  before  adding  the  fruit  juices. 

78 


M/SCIiL  LAX  noes 

VIOLET  SACHET. 

Take  2  lbs.  powdered  Florentine  orris-root,  i  lb.  rose  petals,  1  lb. 
cassia  flower-heads,  i  lb.  black  currant  leaves,  ^  dr.  attar  of 
almonds,  Yz  lb.  powdered  gum  benzoin.  Mix  well  and  sift  and  let 
powder  stand  in  a  tight  glass  jar  for  a  week  before  using. 

-.1//-.V.  Clark. 

WINE  STAINS. 

How  many  housekeepers  know  that  port  wine  will  remove  the 
stain  of  sherry,  and  sherry  will  remove  the  stain  of  port  from  table 
linen? 


FIVE-DOLLAR   LUNCHEONS  FOR 
TEN  PERSONS. 

(Bread,   mayonnaise  and  seasonings   allowed.) 


I. 


Grape  fruit. 

Creamed  trout. 

Veal  pates. 

Lamb  chops,  with  green  peas. 

Tomato  salad. 

Neufchatel  cheese. 

Strawberry  ice-cream. 

Small  cakes. 

Coffee. 

White  wine. 

Bonbons. 

Olives. 

Radishes. 

Almonds. 

Price,  $5.00. 


IT. 

Clams. 

Bouillon. 

Eggs,  with  white  sauce. 

Chipken,  with  peas. 

Cakes,  withi  jelly. 

Lettuce  salad. 

Cheese  and  crackers. 

Ice-cream,  with  ca.ke 

Grapes. 

Coffee. 

Almonds. 

Olives. 

White  wine. 

Rolls. 

Price,  $4.84. 


80 


FI VE-DOLLA  R  L  ( 'XL  HKOXS 


III. 


IV. 


Orange  baskets,  with  fruit  a  la 

macedoine. 
Consomme  of  chicken. 
Oyster  Ci'oquelles. 
Chicken  terrapin. 
SlufFed  potatoes. 
Roman  punch. 
Stuffed  eggs,  with  garnislnng 

of  brains. 
Celery  salad,  with  tomato  jelly. 
Cheese. 

I  ce-creani,  with  cakes. 
Coffee. 
White  wine. 
Chocolate  mints. 
Almonds. 
Olives. 

Price,  $5.36. 


Shaddocks. 

Chicken  consomme. 

Creamed  lobster. 

Steak,  with  mushrooms. 

Chicken  croquettes. 

Asparagus. 

Bananas,  with  wine  sauce. 

Lettuce  salad. 

Cheese. 

IcjC-cream,  with  cake 

Coffee. 

White  wine. 

Almonds. 

Olives. 

Bonbons. 

Price,  $5  or 


V. 


VI. 


Fruit. 

Bouillon. 

Creamed  lobster. 

Chicken,  with  Spanish  rice. 

Pates,  with  mushroom-- 

Omelet,  with  rum. 

Waffles,  with  syrup. 

Lettuce  salad. 

Strawberries  and  creaui. 

Ice-cream,  with  cakes 

Coffee. 

Wine. 

Almonds. 

Olives. 

Bonbons. 

Price,  $4.91. 


Strawberries. 

Tomato  soup. 

Devilled  crabs. 

Chops,  with  potatoes 

Punch,  with  fruit. 

Chicken  terrapin. 

Tomato  salad. 

Ice-cream,   with  cake 

Coffee. 

Wine. 

Almonds. 

Caramels. 

Olives. 

Price.  $4.80. 


A/iss  Clarf:. 


81 


NDEX 


I'AGi-: 
SOUPS. 

Asparaj^iis  Soup,  cream  of.  .  9 

Bean                  ■•        black ") 

Celery                "        cream  of..  10 

(Jyster                •'         10 

Pea                    ■•        g-reen 10 

Spinach             "         10 

White                 ••         with       al- 
monds   11 

P^ISH 

Bloater.s 12 

Chowder,  Maryland 12 

N.  Eni,^  clam 12 

Clam.s,  .soft 13 

Codfish 13 

balls 13 

creamed 13 

'•       •'  N.  Eng- 14 

Halibut  a  la  creme 14 

baked  steak 15 

"        curried 15 

timbale.s 15 


PACK 

Lobster  a  la  Newburs,'- 16 

bisque 16 

devilled 17 

farci 17 

<  )ysters  u  la  Newburj,-- 17 

fried  Phila 17 

Salmon,    dried 18 

POULTRY 

Chicken  cream 1m 

"         croquettes 19 

"         supreme  of 19 

"         terrapin 20 

20 

Turkey  stuffinj^" 21 

(;ame. 

Canapes  for  j^ame 21 

Canvas  Back   ducks 21 

Grouse 21 

Partridg-e 22 

Plovers 22 

Quails 22 

Saddle    of    venison 22 


91 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 


MEATS 

Beef,  broiled  breaded 23 

"      spiced 23 

Lamb,  cold   roast  as  a  salini  24 

"        curry 24 

Meat,    warmed    in    chafing-- 

dish 24 

Mutton,  to  recook 25 

Pot  au  feu 25 

Sausag-e  roll 25 

Steak,  Stanley 26 

Sweetbread 26 

Terrapin,  mock 26 

Tong-ue  sandwiches 26 

Veal  a  la  mode 27 

"     jelly 27 

"     hot  loaf 28 

"Venison  cutlets 28 

Vitella 28 

SAUCES 

Aspic    mayonnaise    dressing-  29 

Bechamel       sauce 29 

Cream                 "      30 

Hollandaise      "     30 

Horse-radish    "     30 

Maple  sug-ar  pudding-  sauce  30 

Mushroom  sauce 30 

Sardine  dressing 31 

Shrii-np    sauce 31 

Strawberry  pudding- sauce.  .  31 

Tartar  butter   sauce 31 

Tomato  mustard 32 


SALADS 


Banana  salad 
Cold  slaw 


Nut  salad 

Nut  and  cheese  salad 

Orang-e  "     

Orange  and  walnut   salad. 
Picturesque  " 

Sardine  *' 

Tomato  ' ' 

Tomato  jelly 

Tongue  salad 

Waldorf     "      


VEGETABLES 

Cabbage  dressed  with  cream 
"  stewed. . 

Cauliflower 

Corn  pudding 

Hominy,  fried 

Mushrooms  in  cream 

Potatoes  au  gratin 

"         breakfast 

stuffed 

Tomatoes,  stuffed  a  la 
Grecque 

Tomatoes,  stuffed ...    

EGGS 

Eggs,  chafing-dish 

Eerg-  rolls 


timbales. 


32 
32 
33 
33 
33 
33 
34 
34 
34 
34 
35 
35 
35 


36 
36 
36 
36 
36 
37 
37 
37 
37 


38 


38 
39 
39 


92 


fxn/ix 


HACK 

EGGS  (Cont.) 

Omelet 3*) 

jiotato 3^ 

souffle 40 

chp:esk 

Bread  saute 40 

Cheese,  cream 40 

fomiu 41 

napkin  41 

"        relishes 41 

'*        rissf)les 41 

straws    42 

42 

Eng'lish    nmuUey 42 

Fern\viH)d 42 

Welsh    rarebit 43 

BREAD  AND  BKEAKPWST 
CAKES 

Biscuit,  maple  suj^ar 43 

Bread,  Boston  brown 44 

•'      cornmeal  an-i  rice 44 

mother's   brown -!4 

'•      Mrs.  Parker's -!4 

N.  Eng.  brown 45 

Buns,    hot   cross 45 

Corn    crust 45 

Gems,  date 46 

"       Graham 46 

MufHns,  cream 46 

Sally    Eunn 46 

>•     46 

Soft  corn    bread 44 


PACK 

Sweet  ]i()tato  ]ione 47 

Zimmet  kuchen 47 

Zwieback 47 

CAKES 

Almond  cream  cake 48 

Almond  macaroons 48 

Apple  fruit  cake 49  '■^^ 

Black  cake 49 

Buckeye  kisses 49 

Chocolate  cake    49 

50 

.SO 

Clove  cookies .50 

Cocoanut  ciK)kies 50 

Crullers 51 

Delicate  cake 51 

Doug-hnuts 51 

Fig-  cake 51 

French  loaf  cake   51 

Ging-er  bread ,52 

Hermits 52 

Hickory-nut  cake 52 

Jmnbles .52 

"        ^o 

53 

Maple   sug-ar   cake 53 

New  York  g-in<rer   bread....  .52  y^ 

Ole  Koeks 53 

Peanut  cookies .53 

I  Plum  cake,    rich 54 

I  Scotch  cake 54 

'  Spong-e  cake 54 

I  Vanity  cake 54 


93 


CHOICE  RECEIPTS 


PAGE 

PUDDINGS,  PASTRY  & 
DESSERTS 

Ang-el    charlotte 55 

Bavarian  cream 55 

Bei^nets  de  pommes 55 

Berry  pudding- 56 

Biscuit  Glace 56 

Bread  pudding- 56 

Cafe  mousse 56 

Clara  Louise  pudding 57 

Coffee  cream 57 

Compote  of  ap]iles 57 

Cream  pie 57 

Cream  pudding- 58 

Date  pudding 58 

Devonshire  cream 58 

English  plum  pudding 58 

Fig  pudding- 59 

Fruit      "        59 

Ging-er   cream •  59 

Gooseberry  fool 59 

Huckleberry    pudding- 59 

Indian  pudding- 60 

Italian  cream 60 

Lemon  paste 60 

Mince-meat 60 

"    61 

"    61 

Pastry 61 

Peach   pudding 61 

Prune  souffle 62 

Puff   paste 62 

Pumpkin  ]iie 62 


PAGK 

Queen's  Jubilee  pudding.  ...  64 

Red  pudding- 62 

63 

Sno-w  balls 64 

Sponge    pudding 64 

Sunderland    "      65 

Tapioca           "      65 

Yorkshii-e       "      ' 65 

Ice-cream 65 

Mille  fruit  ice 65 

Orang-e    sherbet 66 

Parfait   au   cafe 66 

Raspberry  sherbet 66 

Roman  punch 66 

" 67 

BEVERAGES 

Caudle , 68 

Egg-  lemonade 68 

' '     nog-g- 68 

Hock  cup 69 

Kumiss 69 

Matzoon 69 

PRESERVES     AND 
PICKLES 

Apple  jam 70 

"      jelly 70 

Cucumber  pickle 70 

Currant  jelly 71 

Currants,  spiced 71 

Jim  jem 71 

Peaches   or  pears,   brand ied  71 


94 


INDEX 


PAGF, 

PRESERVES,    Etc.    (Cunt.) 

Peaches,  pickled 72 

Pears,    preserved    seckel...  72 

Piccalilli  72 

Pickle,    sweet 73 

Martha's 73 

mixed 73 

FOR  INVALIDS 

Arrowroot  blanc-man^e 74 

Barley-water 74 

"      74 

••       jelly    74 

Chicken   "       75 

Flour  ball 75 

Lemonade 75 

Lime   water 75 

Oatmeal     or    cracked   wheat 

water 76 


I'AGK 

Raw  beef  juice 76 

Sandwiches   76 

Wine  whey 75 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Cake,  to  bake 77 

Coflfee   pot,  care  of 77 

Fruit  jelly,  to  prevent  mould  77 

Meat,  to  prevent  burninjjf.  ...  77 

Potpourri    of   lavender 78 

Refrig-erator,  care  of 77 

Rose  paste 78 

Sug-ar,  to  clarify  for  ices.  ...  78 

Violet  sachet 79 

Wine  .stains,  to  remove 79 

FIVE-DOLLAR  LUNCH- 
EONS FOR  TEN  PER- 
SONS    8(( 


Nicely  cooked  provisions  is  not  all  to  consider 

A  well  furnished  Dining-  Room  adds  to  the  home 
comforts,  for  instance:  Imagine  a  beautiful  Turkish 
Rug,  an  elegant  Sideboard,  China  Cabinet  and -Side  Table, 
to  match,  some  of  our  piano  polish  finish  %  Oak  box 
seat  chairs  at  $1,98  each,  and  walls  decorated  with 
some  of  our  beautiful  pictures,  then 

IW\   is  complete 


HELMES   BROS. 


can  furnish  you,  and  at  extremely  low  prices. 


CHAS.  J.  MEROTH 

Restaurant 

191  Lark  St.,  Albany,  M.Y. 

4  Doors  south  of  Washing-ton  Avenne 


Formerly   Chef   of    Fort    Orange 
and  Troy  Clubs 


Meals  sent  to  Residence.  Cro- 
quettes and  salads  a  specialty. 
Orders  delivered  promptly  to 
any  part  of  the  city 

TELEPHONE  1433,  3 


This  is  no 

ROAST 

The}'  do  sa}-  that  we  can 

COOK  THE  GOOSE 

of  any  Fish  Market  in  town 


Be  that  as  it  may,  our 

FISH  and  OYSTERS 

cook  to  everybody's  satisfaction,  thu.s 
making  us  the  friends  of  the  cook 

HILL  BROS. 

37  Washington  Ave. 

TEL.  1469,  2 


THE  STANWIX 


RESTAURANT 


Special  attoitioii  to  theater  parties 
Telephone  No.  1153  Chapel 


If  you 

Ideal  House  Slippers 

SLr&  thinking; 

The   "ROMEO" 

of  having   any  furs  or  fur 

^^^^ 

garments    made   over    we 

^^^^^^ 

w^ill  store  and  insure  them 

i^^^^^^t. 

during  the  summer  with- 

I ^^^p'^S>^.,^__^ 

out     any     charge,     make 

^jl^,^,;^,^^.; :.  ■  ^^:is^ 

alterations    in    the    early 

stylish  and  araceful. 

fall  at  the  littlest  possible 

Une(iualed  for  comfort. 

expense    and    deliver    for 

Made  from  fine,  all-wool  felt: 
noiseless  leather  soles;    plia- 

early wear  next  season. 

ble,  easy.  neat. 

Colors:      Red 

Ladies' SI. Sit                          Tan 

Misses' 1.25                          Black 

Children's l.(H»                           Drab 

W.  E.  WALSH  &  SONS 

Jos.  Fearey  &  Son 

58  and  60  State  Street 

23  N.  PEARL  ST. 

RUSS.  RIDGWAY  &  RUSS 

Plumbing  and  Heating 


121  State  Street 


ALBANY,  N.  Y, 


50  Years  on  Quay  Street 


WHEN    IN 


NEED   OF 


A 


WEDDING  CANOPIES 

OR  DECORATIONS 

Drop  us  a  postal  and 
we  will  have  our 
f epresentative  call 
and  see  you 


M.  G.  STONEMAN  &  SON 


PHONE    308 


55  &  56  QUAY  ST, 


GEORGE  KRUEGER 

F^URNIXURE     \A//\REROOyV\S 

83    CENTRAL   AVE.  ALBANY,    N.   Y. 

^i^^Special  work:  Old  mahogany  pieces  highly  polished.  Antique 
pieces  bought  and  sold.  Fine  cabinet  work,  mantles,  cabinets  and  case- 
ing  work  in  mahogany,  oak,  etc.  Estimates  given  from  architect's 
drawings. 

PHONE  1479-2  CHAPEL. 


M.   TEB BUTTS  SONS 
Undertakers 

Telephone  No.  1007  Chapel  84    &   86    NORTH    PEARL   ST. 


O c :> ei  1 ,     W^ c^ o d     ei  n  cl      P^^ tsr  t^  c  1 

OFFICE  AND  YARD,  628  CENTRAL  AVENUE 
TELEPHONE  21-3  WEST  ALBANY,    N.   Y. 


u 

Fancy  Cdke  and  Confectionery     7x.     7%, 

^K,   ^   Ice  Cream,  Ices,  Etc.,  in  Every  Variety 

Weddings  and  parties  supplied  with  every  requisite. 
Silverware,  dishes,  waiters,  etc.,  furnished.  Cano- 
pies furnished  for  church  and  house. 

Terms  moderate  Telephone  communication  at  both  stores 

97  SOUTH  PEARL  and  105  NORTH  PEARL  STREETS 

MLB/\IN>',  IN.  V'. 


CLUEXX   &   SOINS 


STEINWAY         PIANOS 
WEBER  PIANOS 

KURTZMANN     PIANOS 
WISSNER  PIANOS 

LECKERLING   PIANOS 

Largest    Stock 
Easiest  Terms 


PIANOS  TO  RENT 


PIANOS 
PIANOS 
PIANOS 
PIANOS 


CHICKERING 

GABLER 

STANDARD 

FISCHER 


PIANOS    WESER  BROS. 

Lo%vcst  Prices 
Best    Variety. 


REST  ALLOWED  IF  PURCHASED 


Cluett  &  Sons,  49  State  Street 


MESSENGERS   FURNISHED 


OPEN   DAY  AND   NIGHT 


Albany  District  Telegrapli  Company 

Estimates  given  on  All  Kinds  of  Electric  Work  and  Repairs 

A  trained  messenger  corps  constantly 
in  service,  for  delivering-  circulars, 
wedding  invitations,  visiting  cards, 
attending  elevators,  escorts  to  places 
of  amusement,  attending  door  at  wed- 
dings and  receptions.  Special  rates 
for  continuous  service. 

Agents  for  Local  and  Long  Distance 

Telephone  Companies 

Hudson   Ri\/^i-  TT^le^phone^   Building 

MAIDEN  LANE  ENTRANCE 
PHONES  230  &  280 F.  W.  NEWMAN,  Manager BRANCH  CAPITOL 


A.  B.  Vqq  QaasbeeK, 
Carpets,  Rugs,  Oil  Cloths 

/Vlattings    eindl    Curtains 

69  North  Pearl  Street  Albany,  N.  Y. 


ARTHUR  BAN  FILL 
Grocer 

2(^j  S/a/i'  cor.  Dove  Street 

The  finest  stock  of  first 
class  goods    in  the  city. 
Vour  patronage  solicited. 

Telephone  ^yj  Chapel 


CiiAS.  S.  Shanks  Chas.  H.  T^atiiroi' 

SHANKS  &  LATHROP 

yWe-rchant  Xailors 

No,  54  North  Pearl  Street  Albany,  N.  Y, 


FRED'K  C.  MANNING 

Art  Stationer 


AND 


Engraving  Shop 


32  N.  PEARL  STREET,  ALBANY,  N.  Y. 


LONG  DISTANCE  PHONE  1525-2  CHAPEL 


WEDDING  INVITATIONS  WEDDING  RECEPTIONS 

ANNOUNCEMENT.  AT  HOME.  RECEPTION 

AND    VISITING    CARDS 

Monogram,   Crest  and  Die  Ciittino; 
Stainping  and  Illuminating- 

ISool-c    of    Recipes    on    Sale 


Distting  Car^s,  Special  ©ffer . . . 


Engraving  Plate  (Name  only)  and  printing  50  Cards         -        S  .90 
Printing  50  Cards  when  Plate  is  turnished  -         -  -        .50 

::     NOTICE     :: 

Cards  Printed  from  I'lates  furnished  to  lis  at  a  Days  Xotiee 


"GREAT  BEAR" 

the  Ideal 

TABLE  WATER 

DclixcrcJ  ill  uUiss  tn 

OFFICE  AND  RESIDENCE 

4    N.    PEARL    ST. 

I'llciM      4J~ 


NUSBAUM  &  LIVINGSTON 

WHOLESALE   AND   RETAIL 

MILLINERY 

529-531  BROADWAY  ALBANY.  N.   Y. 

NEXT  DOOR    TO  N.    Y.    C.    &   H.    R.   R.    R.    ARCADE 


/.i/>rarirs  01-  Pairc/s  of  ()ld  J>oo/;s  lUutii/il.  SoUl  or  /'.vi/iaiii^i-il. 
Acre  Ih'oks  at  Special  Disroini/s. 

JOHN   SKINNER 

1)1  AI.I  K    IN 

RARE  •  BOOKS  •  AND  •  PAMPHLETS  ■  RELATING  •  TO  •  AMERICA 

U;iiiy   l:n,s;!isli   Pjooks  and   liKHiniibula 

44  North  Pi:arl  St.  ALBANY.  N.  Y. 


J,  B,  &  D,  C,  SLINGERLAND, 

Wholesale  and  Retail  i 

^nd  dealers  in  FLOUR,  FEED  and  SEED, 

86  and  88  Washington  Avenue  and  73  S,  Swan  St. 

Telephone    90-4- 

THOMAS   BUCKLEY 

furnisher  and  decorator 

Wall  Paper  Plastic  Relief  Leaded  Glass 

Upholstery  Fabrics 

D.  &  H.  CANAL  COMPANY  BUILDING,  58  NORTH  PEARL  ST. 

Telephone  1476-2        ALBANY,  N.  Y. 


1 

o 

.    GERSB/VCH 

1 

o 

STOWES 

o 

V 

CROCKERY 

V 

s 

ie> 

<fe     IT    Contral 

L.    D.    PHONK  1426-2 

f\\/&. 

S=i 

OARDMAH 
StGRAYv 

PIAHOS 


ESTABLISHED    1837 


549    BROADWAY 

Opposite  Uniim  Depot 
A.LOMINY,    IN.  Y. 
WAREROOMS  C.-italc-ue  m.-uled  free 


MISSES  C.  &  P.  RICH 

hnporfers  and  Designei^s  of  Millinery 

1S7   Lark   Street  ALBANY. 


Extra  Fine  Westerlo  Creamery  Butter 

[••RKSH    KVKRY    WEEK    AF 

Cor,  State  and  Lark  Streets. 


HANAN'S     SHOES     TO     ORDER 

FOR  LADIES  -Man  Fashioned 

S.    E.    yVVILLER,    Jr. 

Telephone  206  Chapel  34  and  36  Maiden  Lane 


hj.  L.  TURNER 


MANUKACrUKKK    Ol' 


Ice  Creams  &  Confectionery 

TELEPHONE   751 

207  Lark  St.,  cor.  State,         ALBANY,  N.  Y. 


LADIES 


In  need  of  artistic  mil- 
linery will  do  well  to 
call  on  us. 


S.  STAHL, 


M.  CROISSANT 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealer  in 

FINE  BUILDERS'  HARDWARE 
Cutlery,  Iron  and  Steel 

Blacksmiths'  and  car- 
riag-emakers'  hardware 
and  agricultural  imple- 
ments 

House  furnishing  g-oods 
and  wooden  ware 


Albany's  Leading  Milliner 

202 1-2  &  204  Washington  Avenue 

AND    57   SPRING    ST. 

No.  37  N,  Pearl  St, 

L.  D.  Phone  243          ALBANY,  N.Y. 

KILLIP  &  MARKS 

G.  WILEY  &  BRO. 

1,  3  &  5  N.  Pearl  St. 

Dealers  in  all  kinds  of 

cor.  State  St.      ALBANY,  N.  Y. 

Fresh 

Men's  Furnishing  Goods 

and 

Salt  Meats 

and   SHOES 

FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC. 

Telephone  544 

FINE  SHIRTS  Carefully  Made  to  Order 


CUSTOM  LAIINDKY 


348  State  Street,  cor.   Lark, 
ALBANY,  N.  Y. 


NATIONAL  SAVINGS  BANK  OF  ALBANY 

DEPOSITS  AND  SURPLUS  OVER  $8,000,000 

No.  59  STATE  STREET 


John  H.  Van  Antweki", 
John  G.  Mykks, 
G.  A.  Van  Allen. 
Albkrt  p.  Stkvkns. 


President 

V  ice-Presklent 

Vice-President 

-     Treasurer 


TRUSTEES 


J.  H.  Van  Antvver]), 
S.  W.  Rosendale, 
James  H.  Maniiinji', 
William  G.  Rice, 
J.  Townsend  Lansing 
Chas.  J.  Uuchanaii, 
Charles  (Jibson, 
Wallace  N.  Horton. 


Albert  Vander  Veer. 


G.  A.  Van  Allen 
W.  M.  WiK)dward, 
M.  N.  Nolan. 
D.  L.   Van  Antwerp, 
John  G.  Mjers, 
Robert  L.  Fryer, 
Horace  (i.  Younfr, 
Harry  C.  Cushman, 


Deposits  commence  to  draw  interest  on  the  first  day  of  each  month  and  paid 
January  1  and  July  1. 

Uankojjen  dailv  from  10  A.  M.  to  2  P.  M.,  and  every  Saturday  from  5  to  7  P.  M. 

FOUR  1»FR  CENT,  interest  paid  ON  ALL  DEPOSITS  up  to  and  including- 
$3,000. 


F,  P.  GARRETTSON  &  CO. 

FINE  TEAS,  COFFEES  and  OLIVE  OILS 

119    FRONT   STREET.   NEW   YORK 

HKANCII    NHWPOKT.    K.    I. 

H.  \V.  LVALL,  Nicw  Yokk  Managkr 
i:.  F.  BLISS.  NicwpoKT  iManachr 

SPECIALTIES 

Exposition  Enir.  Breakfast  Tea.      -----  2o   lbs  S5.80,  10  lbs.  Sa.W 

Repent.  Russian  Style, -  S4.50  5  lb.  canister. 

Peerasre,  Very  Rich",  ---------       S(,.(X)  '• 

Earl  Grey,  Finest  Entrlish  Blend.         ------  S7.20  6  lb.       '• 

MELRC^SE  A:  CO.,  EDINBURGH. 
Tea  Merchants  to  the  Oueen, 
''  ••  '"■        Prince  of  Wales. 

(Queen's    Tea, -------        fi.iK)  per  lb. 

Afterntxm    '•-- --       7Sc      " 

Eny-lish  Breakfast,         - -        -        -  f.Oc      " 

Tuxedo  CofTe»\ -       20  lbs.  ?().60.  10  lbs.  $3.50 

Finest  Olive  Oil,  Nice. 57.35  per  case 

Virginia  Razor  Back  Hams. -        -        .       2Sc  per  lb. 

"  '•  "      Bacon. 20c      " 


MARTIN  E.  NANGLE, 
Undertaker 

No.  7  Washington  Avenue 

TELEPHONE    721 

ALBANY,  N.  Y. 


JOHN  ZWICK 

DEALER  IN 

BEEF 
PORK 
MUTTON 

Fresh    and    Salted    MEATS 

VEGETABLES  AND  POULTRY 

14     Ce^nti-al     Ave., 

TELEPHONE  992     KM]^ ,  N.  Y. 


Established  1843 

B.  W.  WOOSTER 
FURNITURE  CO. 

purniture 

Curtains 
Cabinet  Work 

BRASS  BEDS  iron 
Roll-Top   Office    Des^s 

Sole  agents  for  the  Gukney  Refriger- 
ator, with  removable  galvanized  ice 
compartment. 

36  N.  Pearl  St.,  ALBANY,  N.  Y. 


Established  1841     •■ 

EDMUND  W,  LORD, 

Successor  to  E.  J.  LORD, 

Staple  and 

Fancy  Groceries 

Foreign  and  Domestic 
Fruits   and    Table    Delicacies 

TELEPHONE    719 

Nos.  31  &  33  Washinsrton  Avenue, 
Cor.  Hawk  Street 

ALBANY,  N.  Y. 


Wc  have  the  richest  effects  and  most 
beautiful  designs  in  JEWELRY  OF  ALL 
DESCRIPTIONS.  Dainty  enameled  chate- 
laine watches,  diamond  pendants,  mar- 
quise  and  cluster  rings,  tiaras,  cuff  links, 
studs,  etc. 

LACE   FANS 

Toilet  Articles  in  Sterling  Silver,  Ivory,  &c. 

FREDERICK  W.  HOFFMAN 

Successor  to 

Marsh  &  Hoffman 

F*^mfc3erton     Building 

Cor.  N.  PEARL  &  COLUMBIA  STS. 


ANTON  WELLER 

Wood  and  Slate  Mantels 

TILE 

GRA  TES 

OPEN  FIRE-I'LACES 

MARBLE  MOSAICS 

GAS  LOGS 

BELLOWS,  Etc. 

in  great  variety 

HOT-WATER  and  HOT-AIR  HEATING 
556  BROADWAY 

TELEPHONE    815 


THE  MUNICIPAL   TELEGRAPH 

AND 

Stock  Company 

BROKERS 

STOCK,    GRAIN    AND    PROV/SIONS 

19  AND  21  STEUBEN  STREET. 

Albany.  N.  Y. 

NEW  YORK   OFFICE 

55  Broadway 


Our  specialty  is  Fii^e  Cutlery 


B^Lt  we  have  prices  to  suit  all 

Pocket  knives  from  2Sc.  up  to  $10.00  each 
Carver  and  fork  from  50c.  up  to  $5.00  per  pair 
Scissors  from  25c.  to  $1.00  each 
Razors  from  25c.  to  $2.00  each 


W.  H.  SA 

40  South  Pearl 


PLE 

ALBANY,  N.  Y, 


HUDSON  RIYER  TELEPHONE  CO. 


]N[.    ~V. 


XHe^    Quiclce^st    \A/ay 


of  g-etting-  over  the  ground  is  to  sit  still  and 
use  the  telephone.  A  metallic  circuit  sub- 
scriber can  get  into  communication  in  a  few 
minutes  vpith  any  one  of 

:250,000 

other  telephone  stations  and  places  far  and 
near. 


DR.  WOOD 
D  E  IN  X  I  S  X. 

247  State  St.,  ALBANY,  N.  Y. 

The  most  beautiful  porcelain 
dental  work  ever  done  in  this 
country. 


Ur.  Wddtl  has  also  coiiibiiieil  tlir 
most  advanced  and  scientific  methods 
of  practice,  includinsjf  a  perfect  system 
of  crown  and  bridsre  work,  the  iiainless 
preparation  of  teeth  for  lillinsr  with- 
out TIUC  USE  OK  THU  UKNTAL  KNGINK, 

and  the  most  improved  t3'i)es<if  iipi>er 
and  lower  i)lates.  Estimates  sriven  on 
all  work  previous  to  appointments 
when  desired. 

This  ICLEGANT  work  to  lie  done  at 
the  lowest  rates.  Hand  work  a  spe- 
cialty.        C.  J.  WOOD.  D.  D.  S.. 

247  State  Street.  Albany,  N.  Y. 


OV^TH^l^^ 


Our  twenty-fifth  anniver- 
siiry,  1897,  the  .star  year  for 
this  deliciou.^i  bivalve  mollusk. 
ZQ  '®S?riRj£©1H,  favorite  of 
1P®SB1[H)©1R. 

Time  Flies,  but  We  Remain 


Purveyor    to    best    families 
and  clubs. 

C.  J.  WALTER 

47  Washington  Ave. 

'Phone  7S'1  ch;ipc! 


The  Park  Bank  of  Albany 

gives  special  attention  to 

**Bank  Accounts  for  Women'* 

and  will  take  pleasure  in  answerintr  any  inquiries  on  the  subject. 

No  discrimination  will  be  m.ide  a'j'ainst  small  accounts. 

Conveniently  located  at  No.  7  Central  avenue,  near  the  corner  of  Lark  street, 
with  facilities  for  ])rovidin<r  prompt  attendance,  clean  money,  and  assistance  in 
ever^-  detail. 

Capital  and  Surplus,         _         _         -         $129,420.74 

GRANGE  SARD,  President 

ROBERT  C.   PRUYN,   First  Vice-President 

JAMES  D.  WASSON,  Second  Vice-President 


Granee  Sard, 
Robert  C.  Pruyn, 
James  D.  Wasson, 
Charles  L.  Pruyn, 
Albert  Hessberfj, 


ii»irec::tors 

Edward  A.  (Iroesbeck, 
Charles  H.  (iaus, 
Vreeland  H.  Young-man, 
James  H.  Manninfr, 
Harry  C.  Cushman, 


Amasa  J.  Parker,  Jr. 
Myer  Nussbaum, 
Wm.  J.  Walker, 
James  C.  Farrell. 


EYRES 

SOCIETY'S  FLORIST 


AMERICAN    BEAUTY   ROSES 

VIOLETS  AND  ORCHIDS 

MY   SPECIALTY 

CUT    TWICE   DAILY   FROM 

MY      GREENHOUSES 

AT  SAUGERTIES 


ARTISTIC    TABLE   DECORATIONS 


Decorators  sent  free  of  c//aror 
to  7!iy  customers   lu/ien    fozoers 
are  supplied 


FOUR    FLORAL    ARTISTS    AT    EYRES 


L.  D.  TELEPHONE  208 

No.  II  North  Pearl  St. 


UNIA   f>RES( 
ITURTEVAWT  4 

At«ANY 


L.iiXfi'rZ::.^. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  01 1  022  287  7 


.^.■^.■'<^ 


,  ■'.  •v'V."^uij." 


