Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2019  with  funding  from 
Getty  Research  Institute 


https://archive.org/details/closetofeminentlOOdigb 


6 £. 

Frmled  ^ for  &  Henry  Brome 


i  67^ 


Juvf'&rj  y  H  E  fttro  A.  : _ - 

CLOSET 

Of  the  Eminently  Learned 

Sir  Kerielme  Digh  Kt.' 

OPENED: 

Whereby  is  Difcovered 

Several  ways  for  making  of 
Metheglin ,  Syder,  Cherry-Wine,  &c. 
TOGETHER  WITH 

Excellent  Directions 

COOKERY: 

As  alfo  for 

T reserving,  Conserving,  Candying,  &c„ 

Publifhed  by  his  Son’s  Confent. 

The  Third  Edition  Corrected. 

LONDON: 

Printed  by  H .  C.  for  H.  Brome,  at  the 
Weft-end  of  St ,  Pauls,  1677; 


\ 


.}  V 

.t 


« 

l 


To  the  Reader. 

THis  Collection,  full  of  pleafing  va¬ 
riety,  and  of  fuch  ufefulnefs  in 
the  generality  of  it ,  to  the  publick, 
coming  to  my  hands ,  I  Jhould,  had  I 
for  horn  the  publication  thereof,  have 
trefpajfed  in  a  very  conjiderable  con¬ 
cern  upon  my  Countrymen  ;  The  like 
having  not  in  every  particular  ap¬ 
peared  in  ‘Print  in  the  EngliJJj  Tongue. 
Ho  ere  needs  no  Rh  et  or  i  eating  Flo  ferules 
to  fet  it  off.  The  Author,  as  is  well 
known,  having  been  a  Perfun  of  Emi- 
nency  for  his  Learning,  and  of  exqui- 
Jite  Curiofity  in  his  Refearches,  even 
that  incomparable  Sir  Kenelme  Digby 
Knight,  Fellow  of  the  Royal  Society, 
and  Chancellour  to  the  Queen  Mother, 
(  Et  omen  in  Nomine  )  His  Name  does 
fufficiently  Aufpicate  the  Work.  I Jhall 
only  therefore  add.  That  there  is  here¬ 
in  Q  as  by  the  Table  hereunto  affix'd 

A  2  will 


To  the  Reader. 

will  evidently  appear  to  thee  j  a  [ujfi- 
ciency  of  Solids  as  well  ns  Liquids  f for 
the  fatisfying  the  cuHojkies  of  each  or 
the  niceft  Talate ;  and  according  to 
that  old  Saw  in  the  Regiment  of 
Health ,  Incipe  cum  I  iquido,  &c.  The 
Liquids  premitt ed  to  the  Solids.  Thefe 
being  fo  excellent  in  their  kind ,  fo  be¬ 
neficial,  and  fo  well  ordered ,  I  think 
it  unhandfome,  if  not  injurious,  by  the 
trouble  of  any  further  Difcourfe,  to  de¬ 
tain  thee  any  longer  from  falling  to  : 
Fall  to  therefore ,  and  much  good  may 
it  do  thee . 


Farewef; 


A  Receipt  to  make  Metheglin  as  it 
is  made  at  Liege,  Communicated  by 
Mr.  Mafillon.^^ 

TAke  one  meafure  of  Honey  ,  and  three 
meafuresof  Water,  and  let  it  boil  till 
one  mealure  be  boiled  away  ,  fo  that 
there  be  left  three  meafures  in  all ; .  as  for  exam- 
pkjtake  to  one  pot  of  Honey,three  pots  of  Water, 
and  let  it  boil  fo  long,  till  it  come  to  three  pots. 
During  which  time  you  muft  skim  it  very  well  as 
loon  as  any  feum  rifeth ;  which  you  are  to  con¬ 
tinue  till  there  rife  no  feum  more.  You'  may  if 
you  pleafe,  put  to  it  fome  Spice,  tawir.  Cloves 
and  Ginger;  the  quantity  of  which  is  to  be  pro¬ 
portioned  according  as  you  will  have  your 
Meath,  ftrong  or  weak.  But  this  you  do  before 
it  begin  to  boil.  There  are  fome  that  put  either 
yeaft  of  Beer,  or  leaven  of  Bread  into  it,  to  make 
it  work.  But  this  is  not  necelfafy  at  all ;  and 
much  lefs  to  fet  it  into  the  Sun.  Mv.MaJillon  doth 
neither  the  one  nor  the  other.  Afterwards  for  to 
Cun  it,  you  muft  let  it  grow  lukewarm,  for  to 
advance  it.  And  if  you  do  intend  to  keep  your 
Meath  a  long  time, you  may  put  into  it  fome  hops 
on  this  falhion.  Take  to  every  Barrel  of  Meath 
a  pound  of  Hops  without  leaves,  that  is  of  or¬ 
dinary  Hops  ufed  for  Beer,  but  well  cleanfed,  ta¬ 
king  only  the  flowers,  without  the  green  leaves 
and  ftalks.  Boil  this  pound  of  Hops  in  a  pot 
and  half  of  fair  water,  till  it  come  to  one  pot,_ 
and  this  quantity  is  lufficient  for  a  barrel  of 
Meath. '  A  barrel  at  Liege  holdeth  ninety  pots,ancf 

A3  a  pot 


&  pot  is  as  much  as  a  wine-quart  in  England.  {I 
have  fince  been  informed  from  Liege,  that  a  pot 
of  that  Country  holdeth  48  ounces  of  Apothe¬ 
cary's  mcafure,  which  I  judg  to  be  a  pottle  ac¬ 
cording  to  London  meafure,or  two  wine-quarts). 
When  you  tun  your  Meath,  you  muft  not  fill  your 
barrel  by  half  a  foot,  that  fo  it  may  have  room  to 
Work.  Then  let  it  ftand  fix  weeks  flightly  flop¬ 
ped  j  which  being  expired,  if  the  Meath  do  not 
work,  flop  it  up  very  dole.  Yet  muft  you  noE 
fill  up  the  barrel  to  the  very  brim.  After  fix 
months  you  draw  off  the  clear  into  another  bar¬ 
rel,  or  ftrong  bottles,  leaving  the  dregs,  and  fil¬ 
ling  up  your  new  barrel,  or  bottles,  and  flopping 
it  or  them  very  clofe.  “  * 

The  Meath  that  is  made  this  way,  (  vi\.  In  the 
Spring,  in  the  Month  of  April  cr  May ,  which  is 
the  proper  time  for  making  of  it )  will  keep 
many  a  year. 

White  Aietheghn  of  my  Lady  Hungerford : 

which  is  exceedingly  prat  fed. 

Take  your  Honey,  and  mix  it  with  fair  water, 
until  the  Honey  be  quite  diffolved.  If  it  will  bear 
an  egg  to  be  above  the  liquor,  the  breadth  of  a 
groat/  it  is  ftrong  enough  i  if  not,  put  more  Ho¬ 
ney  to  it,  till  it'  be  fo  ftrong  :  then  boil  it,  till  it 
be  clearly  and  well  skimmed :  then  put  in  one 
good  handful  of  Strawberry-leaves,  and  half  a 
handful  of  Violet-leaves,  and  half  as  much  Sor¬ 
rel  j  a  dozen  tops  of  Rofemary  ;  four  or  five 
tops  of  Balm-leaves,  a  handful  of  Harts-tongue, 
and  a  handful  of  Liver-wort ;  a  little  Thyme,and 
a  little  Rcd-fage:  let  it  boil  about  an  hour,  then 

put 


t  3  ] 

put  it  into  a  Wooden  Vefiel,  where  let  it  ftand  till 
it  be  quite  cold  $  then  rut  it  into  the  barrel.,  then 
take  half  an  ounce  of  Cloves,  as  much  Nutmeg, 
four  or  five  races  of  Ginger  j  bruife  it,  and  put  it 
into  a  fine  bag,  with  a  ftone  to  make  it  fink,  that  it 
may  hang  below  the  middle ;  then  ftop  it  very 
dole.  The  Herbs  and  Spices  are  in  proportion 
for  fix  Gallons. 

Since  my  Lady  Hunger  ford  fent  me  this  Receipt, .. 
fhe  fent  me  word, that  fhc  now  ufeth  (  and  liketh 
better  )  to  make  the  Decodtion  of  Herbs  before 
you  put  the  Honey  to  it.  This  proportion  of  Herbs 
is  to  make  fix  gallons  of  Decodhon,  fo  that  you 
may  take  eight  or  nine  gallons  of  water.  When 
you  have  drawn  out  into  your  water,  all  the  ver- 
tue  of  the  Herbs,  throw  them  away,  and  take 
the  clear  Decodtion  (leaving  the  fetlings)  and 
when  it  is  lukewarm,  dilfolve  your  proportion  of 
Honey  in  it.  After  it  is  well  diflolved  and  laved 
with  ftrong  arms,or  wooden  inftruments,like  bat¬ 
tle-doors  or  fcoops,  boil  it  gently,  till  you  have 
taken  away  all  tne  feum ;  then  make  an  end  of 
well-boiling  it,  about  an  hour  in  all.  Then  pour  it 
into  a  wooden  veflel,and  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  cold. 
Then  pour  the  clear  through  a  fievc  of  hair,ccafing 
pouring  when  you  come  to  the  foul  thick  fetling. 
Tun  the  clear  into  your  veffel  (  without  Barm  ) 
and  ftop  it  up  clofe,  with  the  Spices  in  it,  till  you 
perceive  by  the  hiding  that  it  begins  to  work,  then 
give  it  fome  little  vent,  clfe  the  barrel  would 
break.  When  it  is  at  the  end  of  the  working,ftoj» 
it  up  clofe.  She  ufeth  to  make  it  at  the  end  of  Sum¬ 
mer,  when  fhc  takes  up  her  Honey,  and  begins  to 
drink  it  in  Lent.  But  it  will  be  better  if  you  defer 
piercing  it  till  next  Winter.  When  part  of  the  Bar¬ 
rel  is  drunk,  (hebottleth  the  reft,  which  maketk 

A  4  it' 


C  4  1 

it  quicker  and  better.  You  clear  the  Deco&iof? 
from  the  Herbs  by  a  hair  fieve. 

Some  notes  about  Honey. 

The  Honey  of  dry  open  Countries;  where  there 
is  much  wild  Thyme.,  Rofemary,  and  Flowers,  is 
belt.  It  is  of  three  forts.  Virgin-honey,  Life-ho¬ 
ney,  and  Stock-honey.  The  firft  is  the  beft.  The 
Life-honey  next.  The  Virgin-honey  is  of  Bees 
that  fwarmed  the  Spring  before,  and  are  taken  up 
in  Autumn  ;  and  is  made  beft  by  chufing  the  whi- 
tcft  Combs  of  the  Hive,  and  then  letting  the  Ho¬ 
ney  run  out  of  them  lying  upon  a  Sieve,  without 
prefling  it,  or  breaking  of  the  Combs.  The  Life- 
Jioney  is  of  the  fame  Combs  broken  after  the  Vir¬ 
gin-honey  is  run  from  it :  the  Merchants  of  Honey 
do  ufe  to  mingle  all  the  forts  together. The  firft  of 
a  Swarm  is  called  Virgin-honey.  That  of  the  next 
ycar,after  the  Swarm  was  hatched,is  Life-honey. 
And  ever  after,  it  is  Honey  of  old  ftocks.  Honey 
that  is  forced  out  of  the  Combs,  will  always  taftc 
of  Wa x.Hampfiirc  Honey  is  molt  efteemed  at  Lon¬ 
don.  About  Bifletcr  there  is  excellent  good.  Some 
account  Norfolk^  Honey  the  befr. 

Mr.  Corfelliles  Antwerp  Meath. 

To  make  good  Meath,  good  white  and  thick 
Marfilian  or  Provence- Honey  is  beft  ;  and  of  that, 
to  four  Holland  pints  (the  Holland  pint  is  very  little 
bigger  than  the  Englt/k  Wine  pint:)  of  Water, 
you  mult  put  two  pound  of  Honey  :  the  Honey 
muft  be  ftirred  in  water,  till  it  be  all  melted.  If  it 
be  ftirred  about  in  warm  water,  it  will  melt  fo, 
much  the  looner. 


When 


When  all  is  diffolved,  it  muftbe  fo  ftrong  that 
an  egg  may  fwim  in  it  with  the  end  upwards.  And 
if  it  be  too  fweet  or  to  ftrong,  becaufe  there  is 
too  much  Honey  5  then  you  mult  put  more  water 
to  it ;  yet  lo,  that,  as  above  ,  an  Hens  egg  may 
fwim  with  the  point  upwards;and  then  that  newly 
added  water  mult  be  iikewife  well  ftirred  about, 
fo  that  it  may  be  mingled  all  alike.  If  the  eggs  link 
(which  is  a  token  that  there  is  not  Honey  enough) 
then  you  muft  put  moreHoney  to  it,and  ftir  about, 
till  it  be  all  diflolved,and  the  eggs  l\vim,as  above- 
faid.  This  being  done,  it  muftbe  hanged  over  the 
fire,  and  as  it  Isiginneth  to  leeth ,  the  fcum  that 
doth  arife  upon  it,  both  before  and  after,  muft  be 
clean  skimmed  off.  When  it  is  firft  fet  upon  the 
fire,you  muft  meafure  it  with  a  ftick,  how  deep 
the  Kettle  is,  or  how  much  liquor  there  be  in  it  5 
and  then  it  muft  boyl  fo  long,  till  one  third  part  of 
it  be  boiled  away.  When  it  is  thus  boiled  it  muft 
be  poured  out  into  a  coolcr,or  open  veffel,  before 
it  be  tunned  in  the  Barrel ;  but  the  bung-hole  muft 
be  left  open,that  it  may  have  vent.  A  veffel  which 
hath  ferved  for  Sack  is  beft. 

To  make  excellent  Meath. 

To  every  quart  of  Honey,  take  four  quarts  of 
water.  Put  your  water  in  a  clean  kettle  over  the 
fire,  and  with  a  ftick  take  the  juft  meafure,  how 
high  the  water  cometh,  make  a  notch,  where  the 
fuperficics  toucheth  the  ftick.  As  foon  as  the  water 
is  warm,  put  in  your  Honey,  and  let  it  boyl>skim- 
ming  it  always ,  till  it  be  very  clean  ;  then  put  to 
every  gallon  of  water,  one  pound  of  the  beft  blue 
raifins  of  the  Sun,firft  clean  picked  from  the  ftalks, 
and  clean  wafhed.  Let  them  remain  in  the  boiling 

*  liquor , 


[6] 

liquor,  till  they  be  throughly  fwoln  and  fofc ;  then 
take  them  out,  and  put  them  into  a  heir  bag,  and 
ftrain  all  the  juyce  and  pulp  and  fubftancc  from 
them  in  an  Apothecaries  prefs ;  which  put  back 
into  your  liquor,  and  let  it  boyl,  till  it  be  confu- 
med  juft  to  the  notch  you  took  at  firft,  for  the  mea- 
fure  of  your  water  alone.  Then  let  your  liquor 
run  through  a  hair  ftrainer  into  an  empty  wooden 
Fat,  which  mult  ftand  end- wife,  with  the  head  of 
the  upper-end  out ;  and  there  let  it  remain  till  the 
next  day,  that  the  liquor  be  quite  cold.  Then  tun 
it  up  into  a  good  barrel,  not  filled  quite  full,  but 
within  three  or  four  fingers  bredth  ,  (where  Sack 
hath  been  ,  is  the  belt)  and  let  the  bung  remain 
open  for  fix  weeks  with  a  double  bolter-cloth  ly¬ 
ing  upon  it,  to  keep  out  any  foulncfs  from  falling 
in.  Then  ftop  it  up  clofe,  and  drink  not  of  it  till 
after  nine  months. 

This  Meath  is  fingularly  £ood  for  a  Confumpti- 
on.  Stone,  Gravel, "Weak-light,  and  many  more 
things.  A  chief  Burgomafter  of  Antwerp  ufedfor 
many  years  to  drinlc  no  other  drink  but  this ,  at 
meals  and  all  times,  even  for  pledging  of  Healths. 
And  though  he  were  an  old  man,  he  was  of  an  ex¬ 
traordinary  vigour  every  way,andhad  every  year 
a  Child,  had  always  a  great  appetite,  and  good  di- 
geftion,  and  yet  was  not  fat. 


A  weaker j  but  very  plcafant  Meath. 

To  every  quart  of  Honey  take  fix  of  watcr,boil 
it  till  one  third  be  confumed,  skimmim;  it  well  all 
the  while.  Then  pour  it  into  an  open  Fat,  arid  let 
it  cool,  when  the  heat  is  well  llackned,  break  in¬ 
to  a  boul  full  of  this  warm  liquor,  a  new  laid  egg, 
beating  the  yolk  and  white  well  with  it ;  then  put 


[  1  ] 

it  into  the  Fat  to  all  the  reft  of  the  liquor,  and  ftir 
it  well  together,  and  it  will  become  very  clear. 
Then  pour  it  into  a  fit  very  clean  Barrel,  and  put 
to  it  fome  Mother  of  Wine,  that  is  in  its  beft  fer¬ 
mentation  or  working,  and  this  will  make  the  li¬ 
quor  work  alio.  This  will  be  ready  to  drink  in 
three  or  four  months,  or  fooner. 

An  excellent  white  Meath. 

Take  one  gallon  of  Honey,  and  four  of  water ; 
boil  and  feum  them  till  there  rife  no  more  feum  j 
then  put  in  your  Spice  a  little  bruifed,  which  is 
moft  of  Cinnamon,  a  little  Ginger,  a  little  Mace, 
and  a  very  little  Cloves.  Boil  it  with  the  Spice  in 
it,  till  it  bear  an  egg.  Then  take  it  from  the  fire, 
and  let  it  cool  in  a  wooden  Veflel,  till  it  be  but 
lukewarm  $  which  this  quantity  will  be  in  four  or 
five,  or  fix  hours.  Then  put  into  it  an  hot  toft  of 
White  bread,  fpread  over  on  both  fides,  pretty 
thick  with  frefh  barm;  that  will  make  it  prefently 
work.  Let  it  work  twelve  hours,  clofe  covered 
with  Cloves.  Then  tun  it  into  a  Runlet  wherein 
Sack  hath  been,  that  is  fomewhat  too  big  for  that 
quantity  of  liquor  :  for  example,  that  it  fill  it  not 
by  a  gallon,  you  may  then  put  a  little  Limon-peel 
in  with  it.  After  it  hath  remained  in  the  veflel  a 
week  or  ten  days,  draw  it  into  Bottles.  You  may 
begin  to  drink  it  after  two  or  three  months;  but  it 
will  be  better  after  a  year.  It  will  be  very  fpritely, 
and  quick,  and  pkafant,  and  pure  white. 

A  Receipt  to  make  a  Tun  of  Mctheglin, 

Take  two  handfuls  of  Dock  {alias  wild  Carrot), 
a  real'onable  burthen  of  Saxifrage,  Wild-fage, 

Blue- 


[  8  ] 

Blue-button,  Scabious,Betony,  Agrimony.,  Wild- 
marjoram,  of  each  a  rcafonable  burthen ;  Wild- 
thyme  a  peck,  Roots  and  all.  All  thefe  are  to  be 
gathered  in  the  ficlds,betweenthe  two  Lady-days 
m  Harveft.  The  Garden-herbs  are  thefe ;  Bay- 
leaves,  and  Rofemary,  of  each  two  handfuls:  A 
Sieve  full  of  AvCns,  arid  as  much  Violet-leaves  5 
an  handful  of  Sage,  three  handfuls  of  Sweet-mar¬ 
joram  ;  three  Roots  of  young  Borage,  leaves  and 
all,  that  hath  not  born  iced;  two  handfuls  of  Parf- 
ly-roots,  and  all  that  hath  not  born  feed' ;  two 
Roots  of  Elecampane  that  hath  not  feeded ;  two 
handfuls  of  Fennel  that  hath  not  feeded ;  a  peck 
of  Thyme  ;  wafh  and  pick  all  your  Herbs  from 
filth  and  grals.  Then  put  your  Field -herbs  firft 
into  the  bottom  of  a  clean  Furnace,  and  lay  all 
your  Garden-herbs  thereon  5  then  fill  your  Fur¬ 
nace  with  dean  water,  letting  .your  Herbs  feeth 
till  they  be  io  tender  that  you  may  eafily  flip  off 
the  skin  of  your  Field-herbs,  and  that  you  may 
break  the  roots  of  your  Garden-herbs  between 
your  fingers.  Then  fade  forth  your  liquor,  and  fet 
it  a  cooling*  Then  fill  your  Furnace'again  with 
dean  water  to  thefe  herbs,  and  let  them  boil  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Then  put  it  to  your,  firft  li¬ 
quor,  filling  the  Furnace,  until  you  have  fufficient 
to  fill  youf  Tun.  Then  as  your  liquor  begins  to 
cool,  and  is  almoftcold,  fet  your  fervants  to tem¬ 
per  honey  and  wax  in  it,  combs  and  all,  and  let 
them  temper  it  well  together,breaking  the  combs 
very  fmall  5  let  their" hands  and  nails  be  very 
dean,  and  when  you  have  tempered  it  very  well 
together,  cleanfe  it  through  a  cleanfing  Sieve  in¬ 
to  another  clean  veffel :  the  more  honey  you 
have  in  your  liquor,the  ftronger  it  will  be.  1  here- 
forc  to  know  when  it  is  ftrong  enough,  take  two 

new- 


I  9  [ 

new-laid  Eggs.,  when  you  begin  to  cleanfe,  and 
gut  them  in  whole  into  the  bottom  of  yoor  clean- 
led  liquor  :  and  if  it  be  ftrong  enough,  it  will 
caufe  the  Egg  to  alcend  upward,  and  to  be  on  the 
top  as  broad  as  a  fix-pence  ;  if  they  do  not  fvvim 
on  the  top,  put  more- 

The  Countefs  of  Bullingbrook’s  white 

Metheglin, 

Take  eight  gallons  of  Conduit-water,  and  boil 
it  very  well  5  then  put  as  much  honey  in  it  as  will 
bear  an  Egg,  and  Itir  it  well  together.  Then  fet  in 
upon  the  tire,  and  put  in  the  whites  of  four  Eggs 
to  clarify  it ;  and  as  the  feum  rifeth,  take  it  off 
clean :  then  put  in  a  pretty  quantity  of  Rofemary, 
and  let  it  boil  till  it  tafteth  a  little  of  it ,  then 
with  a  Scummer  take  out  the  Rofemary_  as  faft  as 
you  can,  and  let  it  boil  half  a  quarter  of  an  hour  j 
put  it  into  earthen  pans  to  cool ;  next  morning 
put  it  into  a  barrel,  and  put  into  it  a  little  barm* 
and  an  ounce  of  Ginger  fcraped  and  fliced  ;  and 
let  it  ftand  a  month  or  fix  weeks.  Then  bottle  it 
up  clofe ;  you  mult  be  fure  not  to  let  it  ftand  at 
all  in  Brafs. 

Mr.  Webb  eh-  Meath . 

Matter  Webbc ,  who  maketh  the  King’s  Meath* 
ordereth  it  thus.  Take  as  much  of  Hyde-Parkjwz~ 
ter  as  will  make  an  Hogfbead  of  Meath,  boil  in  it 
about  two  ounces  of  the  beft  Hops  for  about  half 
an  hour  ;  by  that  time  the  water  will  have  drawn 
out  the  ftrength  of  the  Hops.  Then  skim  them 
clean  off,  and' all  the  froth,  or  whatever  rifeth  of 
the  water ;  then  diffolve  in  it  warm,,  about  one 

pare. 


[  1°  ] 

part  of  honey  to  fix  of  water :  lave  and  beat  it 
till  all  the  honey  be  perfectly  diflolved  :  then  boil 
it,  beginning  gently,  till  all  thel'cum  be  rifen,  and 
fcummed  away.  It  mnft  boil  in  all  about  two 
hours :  half  an  hour  before  you  end  your  boiling, 
put  into  it  fome  Rofemary-tops,  Thyme,  Sweet- 
marjoram,  one  fprig  of  Mint  ;  in  all  about  half  an 
handful,  and  as  much  Sweet-briar  leaves  as  all 
thefe ;  in  all  about  an  handful  of  herbs,  and  two 
ounces  of  diced  Ginger,  and  one  ounce  of  bruifed 
Cinnamon ;  He  did  ufe  to  put  in  a  few  Cloves  and 
Mace  5  but  the  King  did  not  care  for  them.  Let 
all  thefe  boil  about  half  an  hour,  then  icum  them 
clean  away,  and  prefently  let  the  liquor  run 
through  a  ftrainer-cloth  into  a  Kiver  of  wood  to 
cool  and  fettle.  When  you  fee  it  is  very  clear  and 
fetled,  lade  out  the  liquor  into  another  Kiver 
carefully,  not  to  raife  the  fetlings  from  the  bot¬ 
tom.  As  loon  as  you  fee  any  dregs  begin  to  rife, 
ftay  your  hand,  and  let  it  remain  unftirred  till  all 
be  fetled  down.  Then  lade  out  the  liquor  again 
as  before;  and  if  need  be  change  it  again  into  ano¬ 
ther  Kiver  ;  all  which  is  done,  to  the  end  no  dregs 
may  go  along  with  the  liquor  in  tunning  it  into  the 
VefTel.  When  it  is  cold  and  perfedt  clear,  tun  it 
into  a  Cask  that  hath  been  uled  for  Sack,  and  flop 
it  up  clofe,  having  an  eye  to  give  it  a  little  vent, 
if  it  fhould  work.  If  it  caft  out  any  foul  liquor  in 
Working,  fill  it  up  always  prefently  vvith  fome  of 
the  fame  liquor,  that  you  have  kept  in  bottles  for 
that  end.  When  it  hath  wrought,  and  is  well  fet¬ 
tled  (’which  may  be  in  about  two  months  or  ten 
Weeks)  draw  it  into  glafs-Bottles,  as  long  as  it 
comes  clear;  and  it  will  be  ready  to  drink  in  a 
month  or  two ;  but  will  keep  much  longer,  if  you 
haveoccafion ;  and  no  dregs  will  be  in  tne  bottom 
the  bottle.  ^  He 


He  fince  told  me ,  that  to  this  proportion  of 
honey  and  water,  to  make  a  Hogfhed  of  Meath, 
you  ihould  boil  half  a  pound  of  hops  in  the  water, 
and  two  good  handfuls  ol  herbs,  and  fix  ounces 
of  Spice  of  all  forts :  all  which  will  be  mellowed 
and  rotted  away  quite/as  well  as  the  lufcioufnels 
of  the  Honey)  in  the  lpace  of  a  year  or  two.  For 
this  is  to  be  kept  fo  long  before  it  be  drunk. 

If  you  would  have  it  looner  ready  to  drink,  you 
may  work  it  with  a  little  yeaft,  when  it  is  almoft: 
cold  in  the  Kiver,  and  tun  it  up  as  foon  as  it  begins 
to  work,  doing  afterwards  as  is  laid  before ;  but 
leaving  a  little  vent  to  purge  by,  till  it  hath  done 
working  ;  or  inftead  of  yeaft,  you  may  take  the 
yolks  of  four  new-laid  eggs,  and  almoft  half  a 
pint  of  fine  wheat-flower,  and  i’ome  of  the  li¬ 
quor  you  have  made  ;  beat  them  well  together* 
then  put  them  to  the  liquor  in  the  Cask,  and  flop 
it  up  clofe,  till  you  fee  it  needfull  to  give  it  a  little 
vent. 

Note,  that  yeaft  of  good  Beer,  is  better  then  that 
of  Ale. 

The  firftof  Sept.  1 663.  Mr.  Webbe  came  to  my 
houfe  to  make  forne  for  me.  He  took  forty  three 

fallons  of  water,  and  forty  two  pounds  of  Norfolk^ 
oney.  As  foon  as  the  water  boiled,  he  put  into 
it  a  flight  handfull  ofHops,which  after  it  had  boil¬ 
ed  a  little  above  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  he  skimmed 
off;  then  put  in  the  honey  to  the  boiling  water  , 
and  prefently  a  white  feum  role,  which  he  skim¬ 
med  off  flill  as  it  rofe  ;  which  skimming  was  end¬ 
ed  in  little  above  a  quarter  of  an  hour  more. 
Then  he  put  in  his  Herbs  and  Spices,  which  were 
thefe:  Rofemary,  Thyme,Winter-favory,Sweet- 
marjoram,  Sweet-bryar-Leave?,  feven  or  eight  lit- 


[«] 

tic  Parfley-roots  :  there  was  mod  of  the  Savory > 
and  leaf!:  of  the  Eglantine  ,  three  ounces  of  Gm- 
ger,  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  Cinnamon,,  live  Nut¬ 
megs  (half  an  ounce  of  Cloves  he  would  have  ad¬ 
ded,  but  did  not)  and  thefe  boiled  an  hour  and  a 
quarter  longer  ;  in  all  from  the  hr  ft  beginning  to 
boil,  fomewhat  lefs  then  two  hburs  :  then  he  pre- 
fently  laded  it  out  of  the  Copper  into  Coolers, 
letting  it  run  through  a  hair  heve  j  and  let  the 
Coolers  ihelving  (tilted  up)  that  the  liquor  might 
afterwards  run  the  more  quietly  out  of  them.  Al¬ 
ter  the  liquor  had  flood  lb  about  two  hours ,  he 
poured  or  laded  it  out  of  feme  of  the  Coolers  very 
gently,  that  the  dregs  might  not  rife,  into  other 
Coolers.  And  about"  a  pint  of  very  thick  dregs  re¬ 
mained  laft  in  the  bottom  of  every  Cooler.  That 
which  ran  out  was  very  clear :  After  two  hours 
morq  fetling  ( in  a  Ihelving  fituatioh  )  hepowred 
it  out  again  into  other  Coolers  ;  and  then  very  lit¬ 
tle  dregs  (  or  fcarce  any  in  fome  of  the  Coolers  ) 
did  remain.  When  the  liquor  was  even  almoft 
cold,  he  took  the  yolks  of  three  new-laad  eggs,  a 
fpoonful  of  fine  white  flowcr>  and  about  hair  a 
pint  of  new  frelhbarm  of  good  ftrong  Beer  (you 
muft  have  care  that  your  barm  be  very  white  and 
clean,  notfullied  and  foul,  as  is  ufual  among  flo- 
venly  Brewers  in  London .)  Beat  this  very  well  to¬ 
gether,  with  a  little  of  the  liquor  in  a  skimming 
clilh,  till  you  fee  it  well  incorporated,  and « 
beginneth  to  work.  Then  put  to  it  a  pailful  ( of 
about  two  Gallons  and  a  half)  of  the  Liquor, 
and  mingle  it  well  therewith. Then  leave  the  skim¬ 
ming  difti  reverfed  floating  in  the  middle  of  the  li- 
quor,and  fo  the  yeaft  will  work  up  into  and  under 
the  hollow  of  the  difh,  and  grow  out  round  about 
the  fides  without.  Fie  left  this  well  and  thick  co- 


s 


[  13  ] 

Vered  all  night ,  from  about  eleven  a  clock  at 
night  ;  and  the  next  morning ,  finding  it  had 
Wrought  very  well,  he  mingled  what  was  in  the 
pail  with  the  whole  proportion  of  the  liquor,  and 
lb  tanned  it  up  into  a  Sack-Cask.  I  am  noc  fa- 
risfiedj  whether  he  did  not  put  a  fpoonful  of  fine 
White  good  Muftard  into  his  Barm  ,  before  he 
brought  it  hither,  (  for  he  took  a  pretext  to  look 
outiome  pure  clean  white  Barmjbut  he  protelted, 
there  was  nothing  mingled  with  the  Bum  ;  yet  I 
am  in  doubt.  He  confetled  to  me,  that  in  making 
of  Sider,  he  puts  in  half  as  much  Muftard  as  Barm, 
but  never  in  Meath.  The  fourth  of  September  in 
the  morning  he  botled  up  into  quart-bottles  the 
two  leffer  Kundlets  of  this  Meath  (  for  he  did  tun 
the  whole  quantity  into  one  large  Rundlet,  and 
two  little  ones)  whereof  the  one  contained  thirty 
Bottles  ;  and  the  other  twenty  two.  There  re¬ 
mained  but  little  fetling  or  dregs  in  the  bottoms  of 
the  Barrels,  but  l'ome  there  was.  The  Bottles 
were  fet  into  a  cool  Cellar,and  he  faid  they  would 
be  ready  to  drink  in  three  weeks.  The  proportion 
of  Herbs  and  fpices  is  this  ;  that  there  be  fo 
much  as  to  drown  the  lufeious  fweetnefs  of  the 
honey  ;  but  not  fo  much  as  to  taffe  of  Herbs  or 
Spice  when  you  drink  the  Meath.  But  that  the 
lweetnefs  of  the  honey  may  kill  their  tafte  ; 
and  fo  the  Meath  have  a  pleafant  tafte,  but 
not  of  herbs,  nor  fpice,  nor  honey.  And  therefore 
you  put  more  or  lefs ,  according  to  the  time  you 
will  drink  it  in.  For  a  great  deal  will  be  mellowed 
away  in  a  year,  thar  would  be  ungratefully  ftrong 
in  three  months.  And  the  honey  that  will  make 
it  keep  a  year  or  two,  will  require  a  triple  pro¬ 
portion  of  fpice  and  herbs.  He  commends  Parfiey- 
roots  to  be  in  greateft  quantity,  boiled  whole,  if 

B  youngj 


[  r4  ] 

young ;  but  quartered,  and  pithed,  if  great  and 
old. 

My  own  Confiderations  for  making  of  Meath, 

Boil  what  quantity  of  Spring-water  you  pleafe, 
three  or  four  walins,  and  then  let  it  fettle  twenty 
four  hours,  and  pour  the  clear  Irom  the  fetling. 
Take  lixteen  gallons  of  the  clear,  and  boil  in  it 
ten  handfuls  of  Eglantine-leaves,  five  of  Liver¬ 
wort,  five  of  Scabious,  four  of  Balm,  four  of 
Rofemary,  two  of  Bay-leaves,  one  of  Thyme, 
andpne  of  Sweet-Mar  joram,and  five  Eringo-roots 
fplitted.  When  the  water  hath  drawn  out  the 
vertue  of  the  herbs  (  which  it  will  do  in  half  an 
hours  boiling  )  let  it  run  through  a  ftrainer  or 
fievc,  and  let  it  fettle  l'o,  that  you  may  pour  the 
clear  from  the  rdegs.  To  every  three  gallons  of  the 
clear,  take  one  of'  honey,  and  with  clean  arms 
itripped  up,  lade  it  for  two  or  three  hours,  to  dif- 
folve  thehony  in  the  water  ;  lade  it  twice  or  thrice 
that  day.  The  next  day  boil  it  very  gently  to  make 
the  feum  rife,  and  feum  it  all  the  while,  and  now 
and  then  pour  to  it  a  ladle  full  of  cold  water, which 
will  make  the  feum  rife  more.- when  it  is  very  clear 
from  feum,  you  may  boyl  it  the  more  ftrongly,  till 
it  bear  an  egg  very  high,  that  the  bredth  of  a 
groat  be  out  of  the  water,  and  that  it  boil  high 
with  great  walms  in  the  middle  of  the  kettle  ; 
whichboilmg  with  great  bubbles  in  the  middle  is 
a  fign  it  is  boiled  to  its  height.  Then  let  it  cool  till 
it  be !  ukewarm,  at  which  time  put  fome  Ale-y  eaft 
into  it,  to  make  it  work  as  you  would  do  Ale :  and 
then  put  it  up  into  a  fit  Barrel  firft  fealoned  with 
fome  good  fwcct  White-wine  (  as  Canary-Sack  ) 
and  keep  t  he  bung  open  nil  it  hath  done  working, 

filling 


t  n  ] 

filling  it  up  with  fome  fuch  honey-drink  warmed, 
as  you  find;it  Jink  down  by  working  over.  When  it 
hath  almoft  done  working,  put  into  it  a  bag  of  thin 
fluff  (luch  as  Bakers  ufe  to  bolt  in)  faftned  by  a 
cord  at  the  bung,  containing  two  parts  of  Ginger 
fliced,and  one  a  piece  of  Cinnamon,  Cloves,  and 
Nutmegs,  with  a^pebble-ftone  in  it  to  make  it  fink* 
and  flop  it  up  dole  for  fix  months  or  a  year,  and 
then  you  may  draw  it  into  bottles.  If  you  like 
Cardamum-leeds,  you  may  adde  fome  of  them 
rothelpices.  Some  do  like  Mint  exceedingly  td 
be  added  to  the  other  herbs.  Where  no  yeaft  is  to 
be  had,the  liquor  will  work  if  you  fet  it  lome  days 
in  the  hot  fun  (  with  a  cover ,  like  the  roof  of  a 
ho  ufe  over  it,  to  keep  wet  out,  if  it  chance  to  rain) 
but  then  you  inu.ft  have  great  care  to  fill  it  up,  as  it 
conlumeth,  and  ro  iton  it  clofe  a  little  before  it 
hath  done  working,  and  to  fet  it  then  prefently  in 
a  cool  Celler.  I  am  told  that  the  leaven  of  bread 
will  make  it  work  as  Well  as  yeaft,  but  I  have  not 
tried  it.  If  you  will  not  have  it  fo  ftrong,  it  will 
be  much  fooner  ready  to  drink :  as  if  you  take 
6  parts  of  water  to  one  of  honey.  Some  do  like  the 
drink  better  without  either  herbs  or  fpices,  and  it 
Will  be  much  the  whiter.  If  you  will  have  it 
ftronger,  put  but  four  gallons  ana  a  half  of  water 
to  one  of  honey 

You  may  ufe  what  herbs  or  roots  you  pleafe,  ei« 
ther  for  their  tafte  or  vertue,  after  the  manner 
here  fet  down. 

If  you  make  it  work  with  yeaft,  you  muft  have 
great  care  to  draw  it  into  bottles  foon  after  it  hath 
done  working,as  after  a  fortnight  or  three  weeks  ; 
for  that  will  make  it  foon  grow  ftale ,  and  it  will 
thence  grow  four  and  dead  before  you  are  aware. 
But  if  it  work  fingly  of  it  felf,  and  by  help  of  the 

B  7e  Sun 


[  *«] 

Sun  without  admixtion  of  either  levcn  or  yeaft, 
it  maybe  kept  long  in  the  Barrel,  fo  it  be  filled  up 
to  the  top,  and  kept  very  clofe  flopp'd . 

I  conceive  it  will  be  exceeding  good  thus :  when 
you  have  a  ftrong  honey-liquor  of  three  parts  of 
water  to  one  of  honey,  well  Foiled  and  lcummed, 
put  into  it  lukewarm,  or  better  (as  foonasyou 
take  it  from  the  fire)  fomc  Clove- gilly-flowers, 
firfi  wiped,  and  all  the  whites  clipped  off,  one 

food  handtull  or  two  to  every  gallon  of  liquor. 

,et  thefe  infufe  50  or  40  hours,  then  ftrain  it  from 
the  flowers,  and  either  work  it  with  yeaft,  orfet 
it  in  the  Sun  to  work  ;  when  it  hath  almoft  done 
working,  put  into  it  a  bag  of  like  Gilly-flowers 
"'and  if  they  are  duly  dried,  I  think  they  are  the 
better)  hanging  it  in  at  the  bung.  And  if  you  will 
put  into  it  fome  lpirit  of  Wine,  that  hath  drawn  a 
high  tindture  from  Clove-gilly-flowers  ( dried, 
I  conceive  is  belt )  and  fome  other  that  hatn  done 
the  like  from  flowers  and  tops  of  Rofemary,  and 
fome  that  hath  done  the  like  from  Cinnamon  and 
Ginger,  I  believe  it  will  be  much  the  nobler,  and 
laft  the  longer. 

I  conceive,  that  bitter  and  ftrong  herbs,  as  Rofe¬ 
mary,  Bays,  Sweet-marjoram,  Thyme,  and  the 
like,  do  conlerve  Meath  the  better  and  longer,  be¬ 
ing  as  it  were  inftead  of  Hops.  But  neither  muft 
they,  no  more  then  Clove-gilly-flowers  be  too 
much  boiled  .*  For  the  volatile  pure  fpirit  flies  a- 
way  very  quickly ;  therefore  rather  infufe  them  : 
Beware  of  infufing  Gilly-flowers  in  any  veflel  of 
Metal,  (  excepting  filver  :  )  For  all  Metals  will 
fpoil  and  dead  their  colour.  Glafed  earth  is 
belt. 


SacJ^tvith  Clove  gilly -flowers. 

If  you  will  make  a  Cordial  liquor  of  Sack  with 
Clove-gilly-llowers,  you  mull  do  thus :  Prepare 
your  Gilly-flowers,  as  is  laid  before,  and  put  tnern 
into  great  double  glafs-bottles,  that  hold  two  gal¬ 
lons  a  peice,  or  more  5  and  put  to  every  gallon  of 
Sack,  a  good  half  pound  of  the  wiped  and  Cut 
flowers,  putting  in  the  flowers  firft,  and  then  the 
Sack  upon  them. Stop  the  glalfes  exceeding  dole, 
and  let  them  in  a  temperate  Cellar:  let  them  Hand 
fo  till  you  fee  that  the  Sack  hath  drawn  out  all  the 
principal  tindure  from  them, and  that  the  flowers 
3€gin  to  look  palifh  ;  (  with  an  eye  of  pale,  or 
Tint  in  colour. )  Then  pour  the  Sack  from  them, 
and  throw  away  the  exnaufted  flowers,  or  diltil  a 
fpiritfrom  them;  for  if  you  ler.  them  remain  long¬ 
er  in  the  Sack,  they  will  give  an  earthy  tafte  to 
them.  You  may  then  put  the  tinded  Sack  into  lit 
bottles  for  your  ufe,  flopping  them  very  dole.  But 
if  the  feafon  of  the  flowers  be  not  yet  paft,  your 
fack  will  be  bettcr,if  you  put  it  upon  new  flowers, 
which  I  conceive  will  not be  the  world,  but  perad- 
venture  the  better,  if  they  be  a  little  dried  in  the 
fhade.  If  you  drink  a  glafs  or  two  of  this  Sack  at 
a  meal,  you  will  find  it  a  great  Cordial. 

Upon  better  conlideration ,  I  conceive  the  befl 
way  of  making  Hydromel  with  Clove-gilly-flow- 
ers  is  thus;Boil  your  Ample  liquor  to  its  full  height 
(with  three  parts  of  water  to  one  of  honev) 
take  a  fmall  parcel  out  to  makeaftrong  infufion 
of  flowers,  pouring  it  boiling  hot  upon  the  flowers 
in  earthen  Veflels.  If  you  have  great  quantity,  as 
fix  to  one,  of  liquor,  you  will  ealily  draw  out  the 
tindure  in  fourteen  or  fixteen  hours  infufion  5 

B  3  other- 


[  i8  ] 

othenvife  you  may  quicken  your  liquor  with  a 
parcel  of  Sack.  In  the  mean  time  make  the  great 
quantity  of  liquor  work  with  yeaft.  When  it  hath 
almoft  done  fermenting,  but  not  quite,  put  the  in- 
fufion  to  it  warm,and  let  it  ferment-more  if  it  wij. 
When  that  is  almoft  done,  put  to  it  a  bag  with 
flowers  to  hang  in  the  bung. 

I  conceive  that  Hydromel  made  with  Juniper- 
berries  (  firlt  broken  and  bruifed.)  boiled  in  it,  is 
very  good.  Adde  alio  to  it  Rolemary  and  gay- 
leaves. 

Upon  trial  of  feveral  wayes,  I  conclude  (as 
things  yet  appear  to  me  (that  to  keep  Megth  long, 
it  mutt  not  be  fermented  with  yeaft(unlefs  you  put 
Hops  to  it)  but  put  it  in  the  batrel,  and  let  it  fer¬ 
ment  of  it  felf,  keeping  a  thick  plate  of  lead  up¬ 
on  the  bung,  to  lie  dole  upon  it ,  yet  lo  that  the 
working  ol  the  liquor  may  raife  it,  to  purge  out 
the  fou-lnes,and  have  always  fome  new  made  plaip 
liquor, to  fill  it  up  as  it  links  warm  while  it  works, 
but  cold  during  three  or  four  months  after.  Then 
flop  the  bung  exceeding  clofe ;  and  when  you  will 
make  your  Mead  withCherries,or  Mordlo-Cher- 
ries,  or  Rafpcs,  or  Bilberries,  or  Black  Cherries, 
put  their  juycG  to  the  liquor  when  you  tun  ^with¬ 
out  ever  boiling  it  therein;  about  one  quart  of 
juyee  to  every  three  or  four  gallons  ofliquor.  You 
may  fqueze  out  the  clear  juvce,and  mingle  it  with 
the  liquor,  and  hang  the  Magma  in  a  bag  in  the 
bung.  I  think  it  is  belt  to  break  the  ftones  of  the 
Cherries  ,  before  you  put  their  Magma  into  the 
bae. 

Since  I  conceive,  that  Clove-gilly-flowers  muft 
never  be  boiled  in  the  liquor that  evaporateth 
their  fpirits,whic.h  a  re  very  volatile  :  but  make  a 
ftrong  mfufion  of  them ,  and  befides  hang  a  bag. 


t  *9  ] 

c>i  them  in  the  bung.  I  conceive  that  it  is  good  to 
make  the  liquor  pretty  ftrong(not  too  much.but  fo 
as  the  taft  niay  begratcfuJ)ol  ( bme ffrong  herbslas 

RolemaryjBay-lcavcSjSweet-marjoram,  Thyme 

B r  o a  d  - 1  hy  m  e,  a  n  d  the  like.  For  they  prtferve  the 
dnnk,andmakc  it  better  for  the  ftomack  and 
head.  Standing  in  the  Sun  is  the  beft  way  of  Fer- 
mentation,  when  the  drink  is  ffrong.  The  Root  of 
igelicajorElccampanejOrEringoroofsyor  Orris, 
may  be  good  andpleafanr,  to  be  boiled  in  the  li- 

3“°r*  Tu  Ch,crr;CSj  rnd  Bifberies  are  nc- 

,5.,°  boiIedj  but  their  juice  put into  the  liquor; 

rUhi£?f™Tnp-  Ufe  ^Oo-cheiriel 
( I  think  )  for  pleafarCj  and  black  ones  for  health 

of  Meaths  “  ^  C°  ufC  VCry  I,tdc  rPlte  kind 


Mcthcglm  comp  (fed  by  my  fi'f  'cut  rf  ' 

/  fuvdr$$J\cceipts. 

*  '  ■'  f>  >  f  r;o]  •“>*;  • 

d"f! ft  8a.llons  °f  Water,  boh  ten  handfuls  of 

Sweet-bnar-leavcsTy^brightjIiverWbrr,  ^gri- 

««WiSeabKH».  Balm,  Wood'bcrony,  Str-Jc 
i y-lcavesjBu rnctyof  each  four  handbills ;  of  Rofc- 

andW  M  °T'W’  Angelica,  Bays, 

handfn  iV5!™'  •’w«*t-M«rionm;rfcath  two 
hdndruJSj  fix  Ermgo-roots.  When  the  water  hath 

fmle  anVde/enUC/f  thC  hcrbs  and  roots,  let  it 

^  °fftbe  ?k*r>  and 

min/ir  °f  “-M  °nC  of  hon£^  ^urn- 

novvgnn  l  i  i  J  nnd  Putting,  m  a  little  cold  water 

whhcl of  it0Sfke  rhe  fc,um  rifc> «  alfo  feme 
off  md  ]rr^S'  kci' IC 1S  clear  feummed,  take  it 

tmiir  -l  n  Yt00  5-  t  lC'n  'vork  ir  with  Ale-yeaff 
tun  it  upj  and  hang  in  it  a  bag,  with  Ghigcr,  CifiL 

b  4  "  namonSL 


20  ] 

* 

narnon,  Cloves.,  and  Cardamom.  And  as  it  Work* 
eth  over,put  in  fome  ftrong  honey-drink  warmed. 
When  it  works  no  more,  ftop  it  up  dole. 

In  twenty  gallons  of  water,  boil  Sweet-bryar- 
leavcs,  Eye-bright,  Rolemary,  Bays,  Clove-gilly¬ 
flowers,  of  each  live  handfuls,  and  four  Eringo- 
roots.  To  every  two  gallons  and  a  half  of  this  de- 
cocftion,put  one  gallon  of  honey,boil  ir,££e .  When 
it  is  tunned  up,  hang  in  it  a  bag  containing  five 
handfuls  of  Clove-gilly-flowers  ,  and  fuflreient 
quantity  of  the  Spices  above. 

In  both  thele  Receipts,  the  quantity  of  the 
herbs  is  two  great.  The  ftrong  herbs  preferve  the 
drink,  and  make  it  nobler.  Ufe  Marjoram  and 
Thyme  in  little  quantity  in  all. 

My  Lady  Gowers  white  Meath  ufed  at 
Salisbury, 

Take  to  four  gallons  cf  water,  one  gallon  of 
Virgin-honey ;  let  the  water  be  warm  before  you 
put *i'n  the  honey,  and  then  put  in  the  whites  of  5 
or  4  eggs  well  beaten,to  make  the  feum  rife.  When 
the  honey  is  throughly  melted  and  ready  to  boil, 
put  in  an  egg  with  the  fhell  foftly,  and  when  the 
egg  rifeth  above  the  water,  to  the  bignefs  of  a 
groat  in  fight,  it  is  ftrong  enough  of  the  honey. 
The  Egg  will  quickly  be  hard,  and  fo  will  not 
rile.-  therefore  you  muft  put  in  another,  if  the 
firft  do  not  rife  to  your  fight,  you  muft  put  in 
more  water  and  honey  proportionable  to  the  firft, 
becaufeof  wafting  away  in  the  boiling.  It  muft 
boil  near  an  hour.  You  may,  if  you plcafe,  boil 
in  it  a  little  bundle  of  Rofemary,  Sweet-marjo-s 
ram*  and  Thyme  5  and  when  it  tafteth  to  your 


/ 


liking,  take  it  forth  again.  Many  do  put  Sweet- 
bryar-berries  in  it,  which  is  held  very  good. 
When  your  Meath  is  boiled  enough,  take  it  off  the 
fire,  and  put  it  into  a  Kiver  5  when  it  is  blood- 
warm,put  in  fome  Ale-barm  to  make  it  work,and 
cover  it  dole  with  a  blanket  in  the  working.  The 
next  morning  tun  it  up,  and  if  you  pleafe  put  in  a 
bag  with  a  little  Ginger  and  a  little  Nutmeg  brui- 
fecf,  and  when  it  hath  done  working,  itop  it  up 
elofe  for  a  month,  and  then  bottle  it. 

Sir  Thomas  Gowers  Metheglinfor  Health . 

Firft  boil  the  water  and  fcum  it,  then  to  1  z  gal¬ 
lons  put  6  handfuls  of  Sweet-bryar-leaves ,  of 
Sweet-marjoram,Rofemary,Thyme,  of  each  one 
handful ;  flowers  of  Marigold,  Borrage,  Buglofs, 
Sage,  each  two  handfuls.  Boil  all  together  very 
gently,  till  a  third  wafte.  To  eight  gallons  of  this 
put  two  gallons  of  pure  honey,  and  boil  them  till 
the  liquor  bear  an  egg,  the  breadth  of  a  three¬ 
pence  or  a  groat,  together  with  fuch  fpices  as  you 
like  (  bruifed,  but  not  beaten  )  an  ounce  of  all  is 
lufficient. 

You  muft  obferve  carefully,  1.  Before  you  fet 
the  liquor  to  boil,  to  caul'e  a  lufty  Servant  (  his 
arms  well  \v allied  )  to  mix  the  honey  and  water 
together,  labouring  it  with  his  hands  at  leaftan 
hour  without  intermiflion.  2.  That  when  it  begins 
to  boil  faft,you  take  away  part  of  the  fire,  fo  as  it 
may  boil  flowly,  and  the  fcum  and  drofs  go  all  to 
one  fide,  the  other  remaining  clear.  When  you 
take  it  off,  let  none  of  the  liquor  go  away  with 
the  drofs.  3.  When  you  take  it  from  the  fire,let  it 
fettle  well  before  it  be  tunned  into  the  Veflel, 
wherein  you  mean  to  keen  it  5  and  when  it  comes 

near 


near  the  bottom,  let  it  be  taken  carefully  from 
thefediment  with  a  thin  dilh,  fo  as  nothing  be  put 
into  the  velfel,  but  what  is  clear.  4.  Stop  it  very 
clofe  (  when  it  is  let  in  the  place, where  it  muft  re¬ 
main  )  cover  it  with  a  cloth,  upon  which  fome 
handful^of  Bay-falt  and  Salt-peter  is  laid,  and 
over  that  lay  clay,and  a  turf,  y.  Put  into  it,  when 
you  flop  it  fome  new  laid-eggs  in  number  propor¬ 
tionable  to  the  bignefs  of  the  velfel,  fhells  unbro¬ 
ken  :  fix  eggs  to  about  fixteen  gallons.  The  whole 
egg-fhells  and  all  will  be  entirely  confumed. 

'Metheglin  for  tafte  and  colour, 

Muft  be  boiled  as  the  other,  if  you  intend  to 
keep  it  above  half  a  year  ,  but  lefs  acording  to 
the  time ,  wherein  you  mean  to  ufe  it.  You  muft 
put  in  no  herbs,  to  avoid  bitternefs  and  dil'colour- 
mg ;  and  the  proportion  of  water  and  honey  mere 
of  lefs,  as  you  would  drink  it  fooner  or  later  ;  (as 
a  gallon  of  honey  to  4,  y,  or  6  of  water.)  If  to  be 
weak,  and  to  be  loon  drunk,  you  muft  when  it  is 
tunned,  put  in  a  toft  of  bread  (hard  tolled)  upon 
which  half  a  fcore  d  rops  of  Ipirit  of  yeaft  or  barm 
is  dropped  ;  for  want  of  it,  fpread  it  with  pureft 
barm  beaten  with  a  few  drops  ofoyl  of  cinnamon. 
If  you  intend  to  give  it  the  tafte  of  Rafpes,  then 
add  more  barm,  to  make  it  work  well,  and  dur¬ 
ing  that  time  of  working,  put  in  your  Ralpes  (or 
their  lyrup)  but  the  fruit  gives  a  delicate  colour  , 
and  fyrup  a  duller  tinefture.  Drink  not  that  made 
after  the  firft  manner,  till  fix  months,  and  it  will 
endure  drawing  better  than  winejbut  bottled  it  is 
more  fpirited  than  any  drink. 

The  Ipirit  of  Barm  is  made  bv putting  (lore  of 
water  to  the  Barm  9  then  diftillthe  fpirit,  as  you 

do 


[  25  [ 

4o  other  fpirits  ;  atlaftan  oil  will  come,  which 
is  not  for  this  ufe. 

Sir  Thomas  Gower  maketh  his  ordinary  drink 
thus;  Make  very  fmall  well-brewed  Ale;  to  eight 
gallons  of  this  put  one  gallon  of  honey  ;  when  it 
is  well  diffolved  and  clarified,  tun  up  the  liquor, 
making  it  work  in  due  manner  with  barm :  when 
it  hath  done  working  ftop  it  up  dole,  and  in  three 
months  it  will  be  fit  to  drink. 

He  makes  Metheglin  thus :  Make  a  good  decodfc 
of  Eglantine-leaves ,  Cowilip-flowers ,  a  little 
Sweet-marjoram,  and  fome  Rofemaryand  Bay- 
leaves,  Betony,  and  Scabious,  and  a  little  Thyme. 
After  the  fediment  hath  letled,  put  one  third,  one 
fourth,  one  fifth,  or  one  fixthpart  of  honey  (ac¬ 
cording  as  you  would  have  it  ftrong,and  loon  rea¬ 
dy)  to  the  clear  fevered  from  the  iettlement,  and 
ftir  it  exceeding  well  with  ftripped  arms  four  or 
five  hours,  till  it  be  perfectly  incorporated.  Then 
boil  and  fcum  it;  let  it  then  cool,and  tun  it  up,{$V. 
After  it  hath  cooled,lade  the  clear  from  the  iettlc- 
ment,  fo  that  it  may  not  trouble  it,  and  tun  up  the 
clear  thus  fevered  from  the  fetlings.  Much  of  the 
perfection  confifteth  in  ftirring  it  long  with  ftrip¬ 
ped  arms  before  you  boil  it.  Then  to  boil  it  very 
lcifurely  till  all  the  fcum  be  off.  And  order  your 
fire  fo,  that  the  fcum  may  rife  and  drive  all  to  one 
fide.  This  will  be  exceeding  pale,  clear,  and  plea- 
fant  Metheglin.  He  ufeth  to  every  gallon  of  wa¬ 
ter  a  good  handful  of  Eglantine-leaves,  and  as 
much  towflip-flowers,but  only  a  pugil  of  Thyme 
or  Marjoram. 

An  excellent  way  of  making  white  Metheglin. 

Take  of  Sweet-briar-berries,  of  Rofemary, 

broad 


[  *4<1 

broad  Thyme,  of  each  an  handful.  Boil  them  in  a 
quantity  of  fair  water  for  half  an  hour  j  then 
cieanfe  the  water  from  the  herbs,  and  let  it  ftand 
four  and  twenty  hours,  until  it  be  thorow  cold. 
Then  put  your  honey  into  it,  (honey  which  flow- 
eth  from  the  Combs  of  it  felf  in  a  warm  place  is 
beft)make  it  fo  ftrongof  the  honey  that  it  bear  an 
egg  (if  you  will  have  it  ftrong)  the  bredth  of  a 

§roat  above  the  liquor.  This  being  done,  lave  and 
ounce  it  very  weil,and  often,  that  the  honey  and 
Water  may  incorporate  and  work  well  together. 
After  this  boil  it  loftly  over  a  gentle  fire,and  fcum 
it  5  then  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  with  their  fhells, 
and  put  into  it  to  clarify  it.  Alter  this,  put  fome  of 
it  into  a  veffel,  and  take  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
and  a  little  barm,  and  a  fmall  quantity  of  fine 
flower ;  beat  them  well  together,  and  put  it  into 
the  veffel  clofe  covered,  that  it  may  work.  Then 
pour  the  reft  unto  it  by  degrees,  as  you  do  Beer. 
At  laft  take  a  quantity  of  Cinnamon,  two  or  three 
races  of  Ginger,  and  two  Nutmegs  (for  more  will 
alter  the  colour  of  it.)  Hang  thele  in  a  little  bag 
in  the  veffel.  Thus  made,  it  will  be  as  white  as 
any  white-wine. 

Another  way  nf  making  white  Mctheghn, 

To  three  gallons  of  Spriag-water  take  three 
quarts  of  honey,  and  let  it  over  the  fire  till  the 
fcum  rife  pretty  thick-  Then  take  off  the  fcum, 
and  put  in  Thyme,Rofemary,Hyfop,and  Maiden¬ 
hair,  of  each  one  handful,  and  two  handfuls  of 
Eglantine-leaves,  and  half  an  handful  of  Organ. 
The  Spices,  Ginger,  Nutmegs,  Cinnamon,  and  a 
little  Mace,and  boil  all  thefe  together  near  half  an 
hour.  Then  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  let  it  ftand 

till 


[  2J  ] 

till  it  be  cold*  and  then  ftrain  it,  and  fo  tun  it  h$j£ 
and  (top  it  clofe.  The  longer  you  keep  it,  the  bet¬ 
ter  it  will  be. 


Another  tv  ay. 


Take  two  gallons  of  water,  one  gallon  of  ho¬ 
ney  Parietary  one  handful.  Sage,  Thyme,  one 
pugil,  of  Hyfophalf  a  pugil,  fix  Parffey-rooirs,Qcie 
Fennel-root,  the  pith  taken  out ;  red  Nettles  one 
pugil,  fix  leaves  of  Harts-tongue :  boil  thdfe  to¬ 
gether  one  hour,  then  put  in  the  honey,  and  Mar- 
megs,  Cloves,  Mace,  Cinnamon,  of  each  one 
ounce ;  of  Ginger  three  ounces  :  boil  all  thefe  to¬ 
gether  rill  the  leum  be  boiled  in,  not  fcummmg  it. 
Then  take  it  off,  and  fet  it  to  cool ;  when  it  is 
cold  put  in  it  fix  fpoonfuls  of  barm,  and  when  ic 
is  ripe  it  will  hifs  in  the  pail.  You  muff  take  one 
the  herbs  when  you  put  m  the  honey.  If  yoa  par 
in  thefe  herbs  following,  it  will  be  far  better  j  aa- 
nicle,  Buglofs,  Avens,  and  Ladies-mantle,  of  each 
one  handful. 


To  make  white  Mctheglin. 

Take  of  Sweet-briar  a  great  handful,  of  Via- 
let-flowers,Sweet-marjoram,Strawberry -leaves. 
Violet-leaves,  ana  one  handful  5  Agrimony,  Bu¬ 
glofs,  Borrage,  ana  half  an  handful ;  Rolemary 
four  branches,  Gilly-flowers,  No.  4.  (the  yellow 
wall-flowers,  with  great  tops)  Annifeeds,Fennel, 
and  Caraway ,  of  each  a  lpoonful ;  two  large 
Mace.  Boil  all  thefe  in  twelve  gallons  of  water  for 
the  lpace  of  an  hour ;  then  ftrain  it,  and  let  it 
ftand  until  it  be  milk-warm :  then  put  in  as  much 
honey  as  will  carry  an  egg  to  the  bredth  of  fix- 

pence 


[26  ] 

pence  at  leaft;  then  boil  it  again,and  fcum  ft  clean? 
-then  let  it  Hand  until  it  be  cold  ;  then  put  a  pint 
of  Ale-barm  into  it,  and  ripen  it  as  you  do  Beer* 
and  tun  it.  Then  hang  in  the  midft  of  the  veflel  a 
little  bag,  with  a  Nutmeg  quartered,  a  Race  of 
Ginger  fliced,  a  little  Cinnamon,  and  Mace  whole* 
and  three  grains  of  Musk  in  a  cloth  put  into  the 
bag  amongft  the  reft  of  the  Spices.  Put  a  ftone  in 
the  bag,  to  keep  it  in  the  midft  of  the  liquor.  This 
quantity  took  up  three  gallons  of  honey  j  there- 
fore  be  fure  to  have  four  in  readinefs. 

Strong  Mead. 

.  Take  one  meafure  of  honey,  and  diffblve  ft  frr 
four  of  water,  bearing  it  long  up  and  down  with 
dean  wooden-ladles :  the  next  day  boil  it  gently, 
fcumming  it  all  the  while  till  no  more  lcum  rifethj 
and  if  you  will  clarify  the  liquor  with  a  few  beat¬ 
en  whites  of  eggs,  it  will  be  the  clearer.  The  rule 
of  its  being  boiled  enough,  is,  when  it  yieldeth 
no  more  lcum,  and  beareth  an  egg,  fo  that  the 
bredth  of  a  groat  is  out  of  the  water.  Then  pour 
it  out  of  the"  kettle  into  wooden  veffels,  and  let 
it  remain  there  till  it  be  alnroft  cold.  Then  tun 
it  into  a  veffel  where  Sack  hath  been. 

A  Receipt  for  making  of  Meath. 

Take  a  quart  of  honey,  and  mix  it  with  a  gal¬ 
lon  of  Fountain- water,  and  work  it  well  lour 
days  together  four  times  a  day;  the  fifth  day  put  it 
over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  an  hour,  and  fcum  it 
well:  then  take  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  beat 
them  to  a  froth,  and  put  it  into  the  liquor,  ftirring 
it  well  till  the  whites  of  eggs  have  raifed  a  froth  or 

fcum  5 


[27] 

fcum;  then  take  it  off.fcumming  the  liquor  clean  $ 
then  take,  an  handful  of  Strawberry-leaves  and 
V iolet-leaves  together,  with  a  little  fprig  of  Rofe- 
mary,  and  two  or  three  little  fprigs  of  Spike;  and 
fo  boil  it  again  (with  thefe  herbs  in  it)  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.  Then  take  it  oft'  the  fire,  and  when  it 
is  cold,  put  it  into  a  little  barrel,  and  put  into  it 
half  a  fpoonful  of  Ale-yeaft,  and  let  it  work  5 
which  done,  take  one  Nutmeg  diced,  and  twice 
as  much  Ginger  fliced,  fix  Cloves  bruifed,  and  a 
little  ftick  of  Cinnamon,  and  low  thefe  Spices  in 
a  little  bag,  and  ftop  it  well  ;  and  it  will  be  fit  for 
ufe  within  a  fortnight,  and  will  laft  half  a  year. 
If  you  will  have  your  Metheglin  ftronger,  put  in* 
to  it  a  greater  quantity  of  honey. 

My  Lord  Hollis’*  HydromeL 

In  four  parts  of  Spring-water  difiolve  one  part 
of  honey,  or  fo  much  as  the  liquor  will  bear  an 
egg  to  the  bredth  of  a  groat ;  then  boil  it  very 
ivell,  and  that  all  the  fcum  be  taken  away.  He  ad- 
deth  nothing  to  it  but  a  fmall  proportion  of  Gin¬ 
ger  fliced,  of  which  he  putteth  half  to  boil  in  the 
liquor  after  all  the  fcum  is  gone :  and  the  other 
half  he  putteth  into  a  bag,  and  hangeth  in  the 
bung  when  it  is  tunned.  The  Ginger  muft  be  ve¬ 
ry  little,  not  fo  much  as  to  make  the  liquor  tafte 
ftrongly  of  it,  but  to  quicken  it.  I  lhould  like  to 
add  a  little  proportion  ofRofemary,and  a  greater 
of  Sweet-briar  leaves  in  the  boiling.  As  alio,  to 
put  into  the  barrel  a  toft  of  white  bread,  with 
muftard  to  make  it  work.  He  puts  nothing  to  it  ; 
but  his  own  ftrength  in  time  makes  it  work  of  it 
felfi  It  is  good  to  drink  after  a  year. 


A  Receipt  for  white  Mcthcglin. 

Take  to  every  quart  of  honey  four,  five,  or  fix 
quarts  of  water  5  boil  it  on  a  good  quick  fire  as 
long  as  any  fcum  rifeth :  as  it  boils  put  about  half 
a  pint  of  water  at  a  time  very  often ,  and  fcum  it 
very  well  as  it  rifeth ;  and  be  fure  to  keep  it  up  to 
the  fame  height  and  quantity  as  at  the  firft :  Put 
into  it  a  little  Rofemary,  according  to  the  quanti¬ 
ty  that  you  make,  and  boil  it  half  a  quarter  of  an 
hour;  fcum  it  very  well  ;  You  may  put  a  little 
Ginger  into  it,only  to  give  it  a  tafte  thereof,  and 
let  it  have  a  little  walm  of  heat  after  it.  Then 
take  and  put  it  into  a  wooden  veflel,  (  which  muft 
be  well  fcalded,  left  it  taft  of  any  thing)  let  it  ftand 
all  night,  and  the  next  morning  ftrain  it  through  a 
lieve  of  hair. 

Then  if  you  pleafe  you  may  boil  up  your  grounds 
that  are  in  the  bottom  of  the  veffel  with  three  or 
four  quarts  of  water;  and  when  it  is  cold,  ftrain 
it  to  the  reft,  and  put  to  it  a  little  good  light  barm. 
That  which  you  make  in  the  Winter,  you  muft  let 
it  ftand  three  days  and  three  nights  covered  up, 
before  you  bottle  it  up ;  and  two  nights  in  Sum¬ 
mer,  and  then  bottle  it  up.  But  be  fure  you  fcum 
off  the  barm  before  the  boiling  up. 

Your  velfel,  which  you  intend  to  boil  your 
Meath  in,  muft  ftand  in  fealding-water  whilft  you 
boil  your  Meath,  it  will  drink  up  the  lefs  of  your 
Meath  :  Four  lpoonfuls  of  good  new  Ale-barm 
will  ferve  for  five  quarts  or  honey.  As  you  de¬ 
fire  your  Metheglin  in  ftrength,  fo  take  at  the  firft 
either  of  the  quantities  of  water.  Five  quarts 
is  reafonable. 


Hydro • 


[  *9  ] 


Hydrotnel  as  I  made  it  ive&kfor  the 
Queen-Mother. 

Take  eighteen  quarts  of  Spring-water,  and  one 
quart  of  honey  ;  when  the  water  is  warm.,  put  the 
honey  into  it :  when  it  boileth  up,  skim  it  very  well 
and  continue  skimming  it  as  long  as  any  feum  will 
rife.  Then  put  in  one  race  of  Ginger  (fliced  in  thin 
dices )  four  Cloves ,  and  a  little  fprig  of  green 
Rofemary.  Let  thefe  boil  in  the  liquor  lo  long,  till 
in  all  it  hath  boiled  one  hour  j  then  fet  it  to  cool, 
till  it  be  bloodwarm }  and  then  put  to  it  a  fpoon- 
fui  of  Ale-yeaft :  when  it  is  worked  up,  put  it  into 
a  velfel  of  a  fit  ffze  ;  and  after  two  or  three  days 
bottle  it  up  :  You  may  drink  it  after  fix  weeks,  or 
two  months. 

Thus  was  the  Hydromel  made  that  I  gave  the 
Queen,  which  was  exceedingly  liked  by  every 
l*o  dy. 

Several  ways  of  making  Metheglin, 

Take  fuch  quantity  as  you  judge  covcnient  of 
Spring,  or  pure  Rain-water,  and  make  it  boil  well 
half  an  hour  j  then  pour  it  out  into  a  wooden  Fat, 
and  let  it  fettle  74  hours  :  then  pour  off  the  clear, 
leaving  the  fediment  in  the  bottom  :  Let  fuch  wa¬ 
ter  be  the  liauor  for  all  the  feveral  Honey-drinks 
you  will  make. 

1.  Warmfixteen  gallons  of  this  water  (luke¬ 
warm)  and  put  two  gallons  of  honey  to  it,in  a  half 
tub,  or  other  fit  wooden  velfel,  lave  it  very  well 
with  a  clean  arm,or  wooden  battledor  for  two  or 
three  hours,  dilfolving  the  honey  very  well  in  the 

C  *  water. 


[  3“  ]  • 

water.Let  it  (land  thus  two  or  three  days  in  wood., 
laving  it  thrice  a  day,  a  pretty  while  each  time  j 
then  put  it  back  into  your  Copper  and  boil  it  gent- 
Iy,tili  you  have  feummed  away  all  the  foulncs  that 
Will  rife,  and  clarifie-it  with  whites  ol  eggs.  Then 
put  into  it  a  little  handful  of  cleanfed  and  diced 
white  Ginger  j  and  a  little  Mace  :  when  they  have 
boiled  enough,  put  in  a  few  Cloves  bruiled,  and  a 
ftick  of  Cinnamon,  and  a  little  Limon-peel,  and 
after  a  walm  or  two  pour  the  liquor  into  a  wooden 
half  tub,  with  the  Spices  in  it.  Cover  it  clofc  with 
a  Cloth  and  Blanket,  and  let  it  ftand  fo  two  days  ; 
then  let  theliquor  run  through  a  boulter,  to  fever 
the  fpice,  flopping  before  any  fetlings  come :  then 
pour  this  clear  liquor  into  pottle-bottles  of  glafs, 
not  filling  them  by  a  fingers  bredth  or  more.*' Stop 
them  dole  with  Cork  tied  in,  and  fet  them  in  a 
cool  place  for  fix,  leven,  or  eight  weeks. 

2.  In  forty  gallons  of  the  firft  boiled  and  fetled 
water,  boil  five  handfuls  of  Sweet-bryar-tops,  as 
much  of  Cowdip-flowcrs,  as  much  of  Primrofe- 
flowers,  as  much  of  Rofemary-flowers,  as  much 
of  Sage-flowers,  as  many  of  Borage-flowers,  as 
many"  of  Buglofs- flowers  ;  two  handfuls  of  the 
tops  of  Betony,  four  handfuls  of  Agrimony,  and 
as  many  of  Scabious  ;  one  handful  of  Thyme,  as 
much  of  fweet-marjoram,  and  two  ounces  of  Mu- 
ftard-feed  bruifed.  When  this  hath  boiled  fo  long, 
that  you  judge  the  water  hath  drawn  out  all  the 
vertue  of  the"Herbs(which  may  be  in  half  an  hour) 
pour  out  all  into  a  Vat  to  cool  and  fettle.  Scum 
away  the  herbs,  and  pour  the  clear  from  the  fedi- 
rnent,  and  to  every  four  gallons  of  liquor  ( luke¬ 
warm)  put  one  gallon  of  honey,  and  lave  it  to  dii- 
folve  the  honevlletting  it  ftand  two  or  three  days, 
laving  it  well  thrice  every  day ;  then  boil  it  till  it 

will 


[  31  ] 

Will  bear  an  egg  high.,  then  clarifie  it  with  whites 
and  Ihells  of  eggs.,  and  pour  it  into  a  Vat  to  cool, 
Which  it  will  do  in  a  days  fpace  or  better.  Whilft 
it  is  yet  lukewarm,  put  Ak-yeaft  to  it,  (no  more 
than  is  necelfary)  to  make  it  work,  and  then  tun  it 
into  a  Rundlet  of  a  fit  fize,  that  hath  been  feafoned 
With  Sack  5  and  hang  in  it  a  boulter-bag,  contain* 
ing  half  a  pound  of  white  Ginger  denied  and  di¬ 
ced,  three  ounces  of  Cloves,  and  as  much  of  Cin¬ 
namon  bruil'ed,as  much  Coriander-feed  prepared, 
add  _  as  much  Elder-flowers.  Asitpurgetn  and 
confumcth  by  running  over  the  bung,  put  in  frefb 
honey-liquor  warmed,  that  you  keep  or  make  on 
purpofe  for  that  end.  When  the  working  is  even, 
almoft  at  an  end,  flop  it  up  clofe  with  clay  and 
fand,  and  have  great  care  to  keep  it  always  clofe 
flopped.  After  a  year  draw  it  into  pottle  glafs- 
bottics  flopped  with  ground  floppies. of ‘glais,  and 
keep  them  in  a  cool  place,  till  they  are'  ready  to 
drink,  if  they  as  yet  be  not  fo. 

Have  a  care  that  .never  any  liquor  flay  in  Cop¬ 
per  longer  than  whilft  it  is  to  boil. 

In  twenty  gallons  of  the  firft  boiled:  and  fetled 
water,  boil  fix  handfuls.of  SweetTuyar-leaves,  as 
many  of  Cowflip-floWers,  as  mahy  of  Primrofc- 
flowers,  and  as  many  of  Rofemary-flovyers,  gpd 
halfa  handful  of  Wild-Thyme,  diinhg  the  fpace  of 
a  quarter  or  half  an  hour.  Then  take  th£  ckar,  and 
difiblve  it  in  afixth  part  of  honey  ,  doing  as  a- 
bove  for  the  boiling  and  clarifying  it.  But  boil  it 
not  to  bear  an  egg,  But  only  till  it  be  well  feummed 
and  clarified  ;  then  po,ur  it  into  a  wooden  tub, 
and  tun  it  with  Ale-yeaft,  when  it  is  in  due  temper 
of  coolnefs,  as  you  would  do  Ale-Wort,  and  let  it 
work  (clofe  covered.)  lufSciently.  Then  tun  it  up^ 
into  a  feafonable  firkin,  and  put  into  it  a  toft  of 

C  ±  .  '•  White 


[  32  1 

white  bread  fpread  with  quick  Muftard,  and  hang 
in  it  a  boulter-bag  containing  loolely  Tome  Ginger, 
Cloves,  and  Cinnamon  bruiled^and  a  little  Limon- 
peel  and  Elder- flowers,  with  a  pebble-ftone  at  the 
bottom,  to  make  it  fink  towards  the  bottom,  and 
faftned  by  a  ftring  coming  out  of  the  bung  to  hinder 
it  from  falling  quite  to  the  bottom.  Stop  the  bung 
v6ry  clofe,  and  after  fix  weeks  or  two  months 
draw  it  into  bottles. 

4.  In  twenty  gallons  of  boiled  and  fetled  water, 
boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ten  handfuls  of  Sweet- 
bryar-leaves,  and  as  many  of  Cowflips.  Then  let 
it  cool  and  fettle  inwood,  and  take  the  clear ;  and 
to  every  four  gallons  of  liquor,  put  one  of  honey, 
diflolving  it  as  the  others  formerly  fet  down.  Boil 
it  till  no  more'fcum  rife,  and  that  a  fourth  part  be 
confumed.  Then  clarifie  it  with  whites  of  eggs  and 
their  fhells,  and  make  it  work  with  yeaft.  After 
fufficient  working  tun  it  up,  hanging  in  it  a  bag 
with  Ginger,  Cloves,  Cinnamon,  and  Limon-peel. 
Stope  it  very  clofe,  and  after  two  er  three  months, 
draw  it  into  bottles. 

My  Lady  Morices  Meath. 

Boil  firft  your  water  with  your  herbs  :  thofe  flic 
likes  befi,  are  Angelica,  Balm,  Borage,  and  a  little 
Rofemary  (not  half  fo  much  as  of  any  of  the  reft} 
a  handful  of  all  together,  to  two  or  three  gallons 
of  water.  After  about  half  an  hours  boiling,  let 
the  water  run  through  a  ftrainer  (to  fever  theherbs 
from  it)  into  woode'n  or  earthen  veifels,  and  let  it 
cool  and  fettle.  To  three  parts  of  the  clear,  put 
one  or  more  of  hony,  and  boil  it  till  it  bear  an 
ege,  leaving  as  broad  as  a  fhilling  out  of  the  water, 
skimming  it  very  welluhen  pount  out  into  veflels, 

as 


f  33  ] 

as  before ;  and  next  day,  when  it  is  almoft  quite 
cold,  pour  it  into  a  Sack-Cask,  wherein  you  have 
firft  put  a  little  frdh  Ale-yeaft,  about' two  fpoon- 
fuls  to  ten  gallons  :  hang  in  it  a  bag  with  a  little 
lliced  Ginger,  but  almoft  a  poringer  full  of  Cloves. 
Cover  the  bung  lightly  till  it  hath  done  working  ; 
then  flop  it  up  dole  :  You  may  tap  and  draw  it  a 
year  or  two  after.  It  is  excellent  good. 

My  Lady  Moricc  her  Sifter  makes  hers  thus. 

DifTolve  your  hony  in  the  water  till  it  bear  an 
egg  higher  or  lower,  according  to  the  ftrength  you 
will  have  it  of.  Then  put  into  it  fome  Sea-worm¬ 
wood,  and  a  little  Rofemary,  and  a  little  Sage  5 
about  two  good  handfuls  of  all  together,  to  ten 
gallons :  When  it  hath  boiled  enough  to  take  the 
vertue  of  the  herbs,  skim  them  out,  and  flrew  a 
handful  or  two  of  fine  wheat-flower  upon  the  boil¬ 
ing  liquor. 

This  will  draw  all  the  dregs  to  it,  and  fwim  at 
the  top,  fb  that  you  may  skim  all  off  together  •• 
and  tins  fhe  holdeth  the  beft  way  of  clarifying  the 
liquor,  and  making  it  look  pale.  Then  pour  it  in¬ 
to  vcflels  as  above  to  cool  5  let  it  Hand  tnree  days, 
then  tun  it  up  into  a  Sack-Cask  without  yeaft  or 
fpice,  and  keep  it  flopped  till  it  work :  then  let  it 
be  open  till  it  hath  done  working,  filling  it  up  flill 
with  other  honey-drink  :  then  ftop  it  up  dole  for 
a  year  or  two.  You  may  at  firft  flop  it  fo,  that  the 
ftrong  working  may  throw  out  the  ftopple,and  yet 
keep  it  clofe,  till  it  work  ftrongly.  She  faith  that 
fuch  a  fmall  proportion  of  Wormwood  giveth  it  a 
fine  quick  tafte,  and  a  pale  colour,  with  an  eye  of 
green.  The  Wormwood  muflnotbe  fo  much,  as  to 
difeern  any  the  leaft  bitternefs  in  the  tafte  5  but 

C  3  tha? 


I 


[34:] 

that  the  compofttion  of  it  with  the  honey  may  give 
a  quicknefs.  The  Rofemary  and  Sage  muft  be  a 
great  deal  lefs  then  theWormwood.Sometimes  fhe 
ftoppeth  it  up  clofe  as  foon  as  Ihe  hath  tunned  it, 
and  lets  it  remain  fo  for  three  months.Then  pierce 
it  and  draw  it  into  bottles, which  flop  well,  and  tie 
down  the  floppies.  This  will  keep  lo  a  longtime. 
She  ufeth  this  way  moft.  It  makes  the  Meath  drink 
exceeding  quick  and  plealantiwhen  you  pierce  the 
Cask,  it  will  fiie  out  with  exceeding  force,  and  be 
ready  to  throw  out  the  ftopper  anti  ipigot. 

To  mai{e  white  Meath. 

Take  Rofemary,  Thyme,  Sweet-bryar,  Peny* 
royal.  Bays,  of  each  one  handfull  5  fteep  them  four 
and  twenty  hours  in  a  boul  of  fair  cold  water  cove¬ 
red  clofe ;  next  day  boil  them  very  w2ll  in  another 
water,  till  the  colour  be  very  high  3  and  take  an¬ 
other  water,  and  boil  the  fame  herbs  in  it,  till  it 
look  green,  and  fo  boil  them  in  fcveral  waters,  till 
they  do  but  juft  change  the  colour  of  the  water. 
The  firft  waters  are  thrown  away ;  the  laft  water 
Tnuft  ftand  four  and  twenty  hours  with  the  herbs  in 
it.  The  liquor  being  ftrained  from  them,  you  muft 
put  in  as  much  fine  honey  till  it  will  bear  an  egg  j 
you  muft  work  and  labour  the  honey  with  the  li¬ 
quor  a  whole  day,till  the  honey  be  confumedjthen 
let  it  ftand  a  night  a  clearing.  In  the  morning  put 
your  liquor  a  boiling  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
with  the  whites  and  lhells  of  fix  eggs.  So  ftrain  it 
through  a  bag,  and  let  it  ftand  a  day  a  cooling  3  fo 
tun  it  up,  and  put  it  into  the  veffcl  in  a  linnen  bag. 
Cloves,  Mace,  Cinnamon,  and  Nutmegs  bruifed 
all  together. If  you  will  have  it  to  drink  prefently, 
take  the  whites  of  two  or  three  eggs,  of  Barm  a 

fpoon- 


[,3f] 

fpoonful,  and  as  much  of  wheaten  fiowcr.  Then 
lec  ic  work  before  you  ftop  it,  afterwards  ftop  it 
weli  with  Clay  and  Salt :  a  quart  of  honey  to  a 
galloffof  liquor,  and  fo  proportionable  for  thefe 
kerbs.  < 

Sir  William  Paftoffs  Meath. 

Take  ten  gallons  of  Spring-water,  and  put 
therein  ten  pints  of  the  bell:  honey.  Lec  this  boil 
half  an  hour,  and  feum  it  very  well  j  then  put  in 
one  handful  oLRoiemary,  and  as  much  of  Bay- 
leaves,  with  a  little  Limon-peel.  Boil  this  half  an 
hour  longer  ;  then  take  it  off  the  hre,  and  put  it 
into  a  clean  tub,  and  when  it  is  cool,  work  it  up 
with  yeaftas  you  do  Beer.  When  it  is  wrought, 
put  it  into  your  veffel,  and  ftop  it  very  clofe. 
Within  three  days  you  may  bottle  it,  and  in  ten 
days  after  it  will  be  fit  to  drink. 

Another  flcafant  Meath  of  Sir  Will.  Paftonh. 

To  a  gallon  of  water  put  a  quart  of  honey,  a- 
bout  ten  fprigs  of  Sweet-marjoram,  halflo  many 
tops  of  Bays :  boil  thefe  very  well  together,  and 
whert  it  is  cold  bottle  it  up.  It  -will  be  ten  days 
before  it  be  ready  to  drink. 

Another  way  of  making  Meath. 

Boil  Sweet  -briar,  Sweet-marjoram,Clovesand 
Mace  in  Spring- water  till  the  water  tafteof  them. 
To  four  gallons  of  water  put  one  gallon  of  honey, 
and  boil  it  a  little  to  skim  and  clarify  it.  When  you 
are  ready  to  take  it  from  the  fire  put  in  a  little  Li- 
inon-peel,and  pour  it  into  a  wooden  veffel,and  let 

C  4  it 


it  ftands  till  it  is  almoft  cold.  Then  put  in  fomg 
Ale  yeaft,  and  ftir  it  all  together :  lo  let  it  ftand 
till  next  day.  Then  put  a  few  ftoncd  Raifins  of 
the  Sun  into  every  bottle,,  and  pour  the  Meath  up- 
on  them.  Stop  the  Bottles  dole,  and  in  a  week 
the  Meath  will  be  ready  to  drink. 

Sir  Baynam  Throckmorton*.!  Meath. 

Take  four  quarts  of  honey,  good  mealiirc }  put 
to  it  four  gallons  ©f  water,  let  it  Hand  all  night,but 
ftir  it  well  when  you  put  it  together :  the  next  day 
boil  it,  and  put  to  it  Nutmegs,  Cloves,  Mace,  and 
Ginger,  of  each  half  an  ounce :  let  thel'e  boil  with 
the  honey  and  water  till  it  will  bear  an  egg  at  the 
top  without  finking  ;  and  then  it  is  enough  if  you 
fee  the  egg  the  bredth  of  a  fix-pence.  'I'he  next 
day  put  it  in  your  veil  el,  and  put  thereto  two  or 
three  fpoonfuls  of  barm ;  and  when  it  hath  done 
working,  you  may  (if  you  like  it)  put  in  a  little 
Amber-greece  in  a  clout  with  a  ftone  to  it  to  make 
it  fink.  This  fhould  be  kept  a  whole  year  before  it 
be  drunk}  it  will  drink  much  the  better,  free  from 
any  taft  of  the  honey,and  then  it  will  look  as  clear 
as  Sack.  Make  it  not  till  Michaelmas ,  and  let  it  in 
a  cool  place.  You  may  drink  it  a  quarter  old,  but 
.  it  will  not  taft  fo  plcafant  then  as  when  it  is  old. 

To  make  white  Metheglin. 

Take  a  gallon  of  honey,  put  to  it  four  gallons 
of  water,  ftir  them  well  together,  and  boil  them 
in  a  kettle  till  a  gallon  be  wafted  with  boiling  and 
fcumming.  Then  put  it  into  a  veflel  to  cool :  when 
it  is  almoft  as  cold  as  Ale-wort,  then  clear  it  out 
into  another  vOiTel ;  then  put  barm  upon  ir,  as  you 


[  37  1 

do  to  your  Ale,  and  ib  let  it  work.  And  then  tun 
it  up  into  a  Veil'd,  and  put  into  it  a  bag  with  Gin¬ 
ger,  Cloves  and  Cinnamon  bruifed  a  little,  and  lo 
hang  a  bag  in  the  veffel,  and  ftop  it  up  very  dole  j 
and  when  it  hath  ftood  a  month  or  fix  weeks,bottle 
it  up  and  fo  drink  it. You  may  put  in  a  little  Limon- 
pecl  into  l'ome  ol  your  Methcglin,  for  thole  that 
like  that  tafte  ;  which  moft  perfons  do  very  much. 


A  Receipt  for  making  of  Meat b. 

Mrs.  Hebden  telleth  me,  that  the  way  of  making 
Hony-drink  in  tyijjia  is  thus ;  take  for  example  100 
gallons  of  Spring-water,  boil  it  a  little  ;  then  let  it 
ftand  24  hours  to  cool,  and  much  fediment  will  fall 
to  the  bottom ;  from  which  pour  the  clear,  and 
warm  it,and  put  twenty  or  five  and  twenty  gallons 
of  pure  honey  to  it,  and  lade  it  a  long  time  with  a 
great  wooden  battledore,  till  it  be  welldiffolved. 
The  next  day  boil  it  gently,till  you  have  skimmed 
off  all  the  feum  that  will  rile,  and  that  it  beareth  an 
egg  boyant.  And  in  this  liquor  you  muft  put,  in  the 
due  time ,  a  little  quantity  of  Hops ,  about  two 
handfuls,  which  muft  boil  lufficiendy  in  the  liquor. 
Put  this  into  the  cooling  Fat  to  cool  twp  or  three 
days.  When  it  is  about  milk  warm,  take  white- 
bread  and  cut  it  into  toafts,upon  which  (when  they 
are  hot)  lpread  moderately  thick  l'ome  f  refh  fweet 
Ale-yeaft,  and  cover  the  fuperficies  of  the  liquor 
with  fuch  toafts.Then  cover  the  Tub  or  Fat  with  a 
double  coarfe  ffieet,  &  a  blanket  or  two,  which  tic 
faft  about  it.  This  will  make  your  liquor  work  up 
bighly.When  you  find  it  is  near  its  height  of  work- 
ins,  and  that  the  liquor  is  rifen  to  the  top  of  the 

“ .  ‘  ‘  "  '  *  atfirft) 

up  in  a 


lub  (of  which  is  wanted  N  or  10  inches 
skim  off  the  toafts  and  yeaft ,  and  tun  it 


[  38  ] 

Hogfhead }  which  flop  clofc :  but  after  24  hours 
draw  it  into  another  barrel  5  for  it  will  leave  a 
great  deal  of  fediment.  It  will  work  again  in  this 
fecond  barrel.  After  other  24  hours  draw  it  into 
another  barrel,  and  then  it  will  be  clear  and  pale 
like  white-wine.  Stop  it  up  clofe,hanging  a  bag  of 
bruifed  Spice  in  the  bung,  and  after  y  or  6  months 
it  will  be  fit  to  drink.  If  you  would  have  your. 
Meath  taft  of  Rafpes,  or  Cherries,  ( Morello ,  fharp 
Cherries  are  the  beft)  prepare  the  water  firft  with 
them,  by  putting  y  or  6  gallons  of  either  of  thefe 
fruits,  or  more  into  this  proportion  of  water  ;  in 
which  bruife  them  to  have  all  their  juyce:but  ftrain 
the  liquor  from  the  Grains,  or  Seeds,  or  Stones  ; 
And  then  proceed  with  this  tincfted  water,  as  is 
faid  above.  Ye  may  make  your  liquor  as  ftrong  ns 
you  like,  of  the  fruit.  Cardamon-feeds  mingled 
with  the  fufpended  fpices,  add  much  to  the  plea- 
fantnefs  of  the  drink.  Limon-peel,as  alfo  Elder- 
flowers. 

My  Lady  Bellaflifes  Meath. 

The  way  of  making  is  thus.  She  boileth  the  Ho- 
ny  with  Spring-water,as  I  do,  till  it  be  clear  feurn- 
med }  then  to  every  gallon  of  Hony  put  in  a  pound 
or  two  of  god  raifins  of  the  Sun  ;  boil  them  well, 
and  till  the  liquor  bear  an  egg.  Then  put  it  into  a 
Cowl,or  Tub  to  cool.  In  about  24  hours  it  will  be 
cool  enough  to  put  theyeaft  to  it,  being  only  luke¬ 
warm  i  which  do  thus :  fpread  yeaft  upon  a  large 
hot  toaft,  and  lay  it  upon  tlie  top  of  the  liquor,  and 
cover  theTub  well,firft  with  a  iheet,then  with  co- 
verlets,that  it  may  work  well.When  it  is  wrought 
up  to  its  height,  before  it  begin  to  fink,  put  it  into 
your  barrel,  letting  it  run  through  aloole  open 
ftrainer,to  fever  the 'Raifins  and  dregs  from  it.Stop 

it 


I  39] 

It  up  clofe,  and  after  it  hath  been  thus  eight  or  ten 
days,  draw  it  into  bottles,  and  into  every  bottle 
put  a  cod  of  Cardamons,  having  firft  a  little  bruif. 
ed  them  as  they  lie  in  the  codjand  opening  the  cod 
a  little,that  the  liquor  may  learch  into  it;ftop  your 
bottles  clofe,  ana  after  three  or  four  months  you 
may  drink,and  it  will  be  very  pleafant  and  quick* 
and  look  like  white-wine. 

Another  Metheglin. 

In  every  three  gallons  of  water,  boil  Rofemary, 
Liverwort,  Bal rc\>ana  halfa  handful,and  Cowflips 
two  handfuls  :  When  the  water  hath  fufficiently 
drawn  out  the  vertue  of  the  herbs,  pour  all  into  a 
Tub,  and  let  it  ftand  all  night.  Then  ftrain  it,  and 
to  every  three  gallons  of  the  clear  liquor  (or  two 
and  a  half,  if  you  will  have  your  drink  ftronger) 
put  one  gallon  of  Honey,  and  boil  it  till  it  bear  an 
eggjfcumming  it  till  no  more  feum  will  rife.-which 
to  "make  rife  the  better,put  in  now  and  then  a  por¬ 
ringer  ful  of  cold  water.  Then  pour  it  into  aTub, 
and  let  it  ftand  to  cool,  till  it  be  blood-warm,  and 
then  put  by  degrees  a  pint  of  Ale-yeaft  to  it,  to 
make  it  work.  So  let  it  lfand  three  days  very  clofe 
covered.  Then  skim  of  the  yeaft,and  put  it  into  a 
feafoned  barrel;  but  ftop  it  not  up  clole,till  it  have 
done  hiding.  Then  either  ftop  it  very  clofe,  if  you 
will  keep  it  in  the  barrel,  or  draw  it  into  bottles. 
Put  into  this  proportion.  Ginger  fliced.  Nutmegs 
broken,  ana  one  ounce.  Cinnamon  bruifed  half  an 
ounce  in  a  bag,  which  hang  in  the  bung  with  a 
ftone  in  it  to  make  it  fink.  You  may  add,  if  you 
pleafe,  to  this  proportion  of  water,  or  one  gallon 
more,  two  handfuls  of  Sweet-bryar-lcaves,  and 
one  of  Betony. 


Mr 


[4°  I 


Mr.  Pierce's  Excellent  white  Metheglm. 

*  ±  i  '  1 

In  a  Copper,  that  holdeth  conveniently  three 
Hogsheads,  or  near  fo  much,  boil  the  belt  water, 
(as  full  as  is  fitting :)  As  foon  as  it  boileth  well  and 
jiigh,put  to  it  four  handfuls  of  Swect-bryar  leaves, 
as  much  Eye-bright ;  two  handfuls  of  Rofemary, 
as  much  of  Sweet-Marjoram,  and  one  of  broad 
Thyme.  Let  them  boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour :  (He 
letteth  them  boil  no  longer,  to  preferve  the  colour 
of  the  Metheglin  pale)  then  leum  away  the  herbs, 
leumming  alio  the  water  clear.  Then  lade  out  the 
water,  (letting  it  run  through  a  Ranch-Sieve)  into 
a  wide  open  velfel ,  or  large  Vat  to  cool,  leaving 
•the  fettlement  and  dregs.  (He  often  leaves  out  the 
Eye-bright  and  Thyme,  when  he  provideth  chiefly 
fpr  the  pure  tafte  ;  though  the  eye-bright  hurts  it 
but  little.)  When  it  is  blood-warm  put  the  hony  to 
ir,  about  one  part  to  four  of  water  ;  but  becaufe 
this  doth  not  determine  the  proportions  cxadlly 
(for  fome  honey  will  make  it  ftronger  then  other) 
you  mult  do  that  by  bearing  up  an  egg.  But  firft, 
lave  and  fcoop  your  mixture  exceedingly,  (at  Iealt 
an  hour)  that  the  hony  be  not  only  perfectly  dilfoJ- 
ved,  but  uniformly  mixed  throughout  the  water. 
Then  take  out  fome  of  it  in  a  great  wooden  bowl 
or  pail,  and  put  a  good  number,  (ten  or  twelve) 
new-laid  eggs  into  it,and  as  round  ones  as  may  be  ; 
for  long  ones  will  deceive  you  in  the  fwimming  , 
and  ftale  ones,  being  lighter  then  new,  wil  emerge 
out  of  the  liquor  the  bredth  of  a  fix-pence,  when 
new  ones  will  not  a  groats  breadth.Therefcre  take 
you  many,that  you  make  a  medium  of  their  feveral 
tmergins  5  unlefs  you  be  certain,  that  they  which 
you  ufe,are  immediately  then  laid  and  very  round. 

The 


The  rule  is,  that  a  groats  bread! h  (or  rather  but  a 
three  pence)  of  the  egg-fhell  muft  lvvim  above  the 
liquor  ;  which  then  put  again  into  your  Copper  to 
boil.  It  will  be  fome  while  before  it  boil  (perad- 
venture  a  good  quarter  of  an  hour)  but  all  that 
while  feum  will  rife,  which  skim  away  ftill  as  it  ri- 
leth  ;  and  it  Ihould  be  clear  feummed  by  then  it 
boileth :  which  as  loon  as  it  doth,  turn  up  an  hour- 
glafs,  and  let  it  boil  well  a  good  hour.  A  good 
quarter  before  the  hour  is  out,  put  to  it  a  pound  of 
white  Ginger  beaten  exceedingly  fmall  &  fearfed 
(which  will  fever  all  the  skins  tk.  courfo  parts  from 
the  fine)  which  having  boiled  a  quarter  of  an  hour* 
fo  to  make  up  the  whole  hour  of  boiling,  pour  our 
the  liquor  into  wide  open  Vats  to  cool.  When  it  is 
quite  cold ,  put  a  pottle  of  new  Alc-barm  into  z 
Pipe,or  Butt,  Handing  end-wife  with  his  head  our, 
and  pour  upon  it  a  pailful  of  your  cooil  liqour  out 
of  one  of  the  Vats ;  which  falling  from  high  up¬ 
on  it  tfith  force,  will  break  and  diifipate  the  barm 
into  atoms,and  mix  it  with  the  liquor.Pour  imme¬ 
diately  another  pailfull  to  that,  continuing  to  do  fo 
till  all  the  liquor  be  in.  Which  by  this  time  and  this 
courfe  will  be  uniformly  mixed  with  the  barm,and 
begin  to  work.  Yet  fcoop  and  lade  it  well  a  while, 
to  make  the  mixtion  more  perfect  ,•  and  fet  the 
working  well  on  foot.  Then  cover  your  Butt-head 
with  a  fheet  only  in  Summer,  but  blankets  in  Win¬ 
ter  ;  and  let  your  liquor  work  about  four  and  twen¬ 
ty  hours  or  more.  The  meafure  of  that  is,  till  the 
barm  (which  is  raifed  to  a  great  head)  beginneth 
a  little  to  fall.  Then  prefently  feum  off  the  thick 
head  of  the  barm,  but  take  not  all  away  fo  fcrupu- 
loufly ,  but  that  there  may  remain  a  little  white 
froth  upon  the  face  of  the  liquor.  Which  fcoop 
and  lade  ftrongly,  mingling  all  to  the  bottom,  that 

this 


.  [  4*  ] 

this  little  remaining  barm  may  by  this  agitati¬ 
on  be  mixed  anew  with  the  whole.  Then  immedi¬ 
ately  tun  this  liquor  into  two  Hogfheads  that  have 
ferved  for  Spamfh  wine  (be  fure  to  fill  them  quite 
full)  and  there  let  it  work  two  or  three  days  ;  that 
is  to  fay,  till  you  fee  that  all  the  feculent  fubflance 
is  wrought  out,  and  that  what  runnetji  out,  begin- 
neth  to  be  clear,though  alictle  whitifh  or  frothy  on 
the  upper-fide  of  the  dream  that  runs  down  along 
the  out-fide  of  the  hogfhead.  (If  there  fhould  be 
a  little  more  then  to  fill  two  hogfheads,  put  it  in  a 
Runlet  by  it  felf.  )  Then  take  fome  very  ftrong 
firm  Paper ,  and  wet  it  on  one  fide  with  fome  of 
the  barm  that  works  out, and  lay  that  fide  over  the 
bung  to  cover  ic  clofc.The  barm  will  make  it  flick 
fall  to  the  hogfhead.  This  covering  will  ferve  for 
a  month  or  two.Then  flop  it  clofe  with  ftrong  cork 
fitted  to  the  hole,  with  a  linen  about  it,  to  prefs  it 
fell  in.  But  let  a  little  vent  with  a  peg  in  it  be  made 
in  the  hogfhead,  in  fome  fit  place  abovc.  1  his  may 
be  fit  to  broach  in  five  or  fix  months,;  but  three 
weeks  or  a  month  before  you  do  fo,  put  into  each 
hogfhead  half  an  ounce  of  Cinnamon,  and  two 
ounces  of  Cloves  beaten  into  moft  fubtile  powder, 
(  fometimes  he  laves  out' the  Cloves)  which  will 
give  it  a  moft  plealant  flavor;  and  they  (as  the 
Ginger  did)  fink  down  to  the  bottom  and  never 
trouble  the  liquor.  If  they  be  put  in  long  before 
(much  more  if  they  be  boiled)  they  lofe  all  their 
taflc  and  Spirits  entirely.  This  will  lafl  very  well 
half  a  year,  drawing.  But  if  you  flay  broaching  it 
a  year,  and  then  draw  it  into  bottles,  it  will  keep 
admirable  good  three  or  four  years, grooving  to  be 
much  better,  then  when  broached  at  fix  months 
end.  It  will  be  purer  if  you  firfl  boil  the  water  by 
it  felfjthen  let  it  fettle  four  and  twenty  hours,and 

pour 


[  43  ] 

pour  the  clear  from  the  earthy  fedimcnt ,  which 
will,  be  great*  and  dilfolve  your  honey  in  thar. 
You  may  Aromatife  it  with  Ambergreece  or 
Musk*  or  both  (if  you  like  them)  by  dilfolving  a 
very  few  Paftils  in  a  Rundlet  of  this  liquor,  when 
you  draw  it  into  little  velfdls,  (as  he  ufeth  to  do 
after  five  or  fix  months  Jor  with  a  few  drops  of  the 
extrad  of  them.  This  Metheglin  is  a  great  Balfom 
and  ftrengthener  of  i\\zVifira}\s  excellent  in  colds, 
Cpughs*  and  Confumptions.  For  which  laft  they 
ule  to  burn  it  (like  wine )  or  rather  only  heat  it. 
Then  dilfolve  the  yolk  of  an  egg  or  two  in  a  pint 
of  it*  and  fome  frelh  Butter*  and  drink  it  warm  in 
the  morning  falling.  As  it  comes  from  the  barrel 
or  bottle*  it  is  ufed  to  be  drunk  a  large  draught 
(without  any  alteration  or  admixtion,  with  a  toaft 
early  in  the  morning  (eating  the  toaft)  when  they 
intend  to  dine  late.  Confider  of  making  Metheg- 
lin  thus  with  purified  rain  water(ofthe  /Equinox) 
or  Dew. 

The  handfuls  of  Herbs  are  natural  large  hand¬ 
fuls  (as  much  as  you  can  take  up  in  your  hand)  not 
Apothecaries  handfuls,  which  are  much  lefs.  If  a 
pottle  of  Barm  do  not  make  it  work  enough  to 
your  mind*  you  may  put  in  a  little  more.  Difcre- 
and  Experience  mull  regulate  that. 

You  may  make  finall  Meath  the  fame  way,  mu¬ 
ting  but  half  the  proportion  of  honey  or  lefs.  But 
then  after  three  weeks  or  a  months  barrelling  you 
mult  bottle  it- 


[44] 


An  excellent  way  to  make  Metheglin,  called  the  Li¬ 
quor  of  Lfet  with  thefe following  Ingredients . 

TakeBuglofs,  Borlge,  Hyffop,  Organ;  Sweet- 
marjoram  ,Kofemary,  French-cow 11 ip,Coits-foot, 
Thyme,  Burner,  Self-hcal,Sanicle  a  little,  Betony, 
Blue-buttons,  Harts-tongue,  Meads-fwcet,  Liver¬ 
wort,  Coriander  two  ounces,  Biftort,Saint  Johns- 
wort,  Licorife,two  ounces  of  Caraways,two  oun¬ 
ces  of  Yellow-faunders,  Balm,  Bugle,  half  a  pound 
of  Ginger,  and  one  ounce  of  Cloves,  Agrimony, 
Tormentil-roots,  Cumfrey,  Fennil-roots,Clowns- 
all-heal,  Maiden-hair,  Wall-rue,  Spleen-wort, 
Sweet-oak,  Pauls-betony,  Moufe-ear. 

For  two  Hoglheads  of  Metheglin ,  take  two 
handfuls  a  piece  of  each  herb,  excepting  Sanicle  j 
of  which  you  take  but  half  a  handfull.  You  make 
it  in  all  things  as  the  white  Meath  of  Mr.  Pierce’s, 
is  made,  excepting  as  followeth.  For  in  that  you 
boil  the  herbs  but  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  that  the 
colour  may  be  pale :  But  in  this,  where  the  deep- 
nefs  of  the  colour  is  not  regarded,  you  boil  them  a 
good  hour,  that  you  may  get  all  the  vertue  out  of 
them.  Next  for  the  ftrength  of  it  j  whereas  in 
that,  an  egg  is  to  emerge  out  of  the  liquor  but  the 
breadth  ot  a  three-pence ;  in  this  it  is  to  emerge  a 
large  groats  breadth.  Then  in  this  you  take  but 
half  a  pound  of  Ginger,  and  one  ounce  of  Cloves. 
Whereas  the  white  hath  one  pound  of  Ginger,  and 
two  ounces  of  Cloves. To  this  you  ufe  three  quarts, 
or  rather  more  of  Ale-ycafl:  (frefhand  new)  and 
when  all  yotir  liquor  is  in  a  high,  {lender,  tall  pipe, 
with  the  narrowelt  circumference  that  may  be 

,  (which 


[ « ]  • 

(  which  makes  it  work  better  then  a  broad  one,, 
where  the  fpirits  lofe  themfelves  )  you  have  the 
yeaft  in  a  large  noggin  with  a  handle,  or  pail,  and 
put  home  of  the  liquor  to  it,  and  make  that  work  j 
then  pour  it  from  pretty  high  unto  the  whole 
quantity  in  the  pipe,  and  lade  it  ftrongly  with  that 
noggin  five  or  fix  or  eight  times,  pouring  it  every 
rimefrom  high,and  working  it  well  together,that 
fo every  A  tome,  of  the  yeaft  may  be  mingled  with 
every  Atome  of  the  liquor.  And  this  courfe  (in 
this  particular)  you  may  alfo  ufe  in  the  white.  It 
is  beft  not  to  broach  this,  till  a  year  be  over  after 
the  making  it. 

To  make  good  Methcglin. 

Take  to  every  gallon  of  honey,  three  gallons  of 
water,  and  put  them  both  together;  and  let  them 
over  fo  foft  a  fire,  that  you  may  endure  to  melt  and 
break  the  honey  with  your  hands.  When  the  honey 
is  all  melted,  put  in  an  egg,  and  let  it  fall  gently  to 
the  bottom,  and  if  the  egg  rife  up  to  the  top  again 
of  the  liquor,  then  is  it  ftrong  enough  of  the  ho¬ 
ney  ;  but  if  it  lie  at  the  bottom  ,you  muft  put  in 
more  honey,  ftirring  of  it  till  it  do  rife.  If  youg 
honey  be  very  good,  it  will  bear  half  a  gallon  of 
water  more  to  a  gallon  of  hony.  Then  take  Sweet- 
bryar,  Rofemary,  Bays,  Thyme,  Marjoram,  Sa¬ 
vory,  of  each  a  good  handful,  which  muft  be  tied 
up  all  together  in  a  bundle.  This  proportion  of 
herbs  will  be  fufficient  for  twelve  gallons  of  Me- 
theglin  ;  and  according  to  the  quantity  you  make 
of  Metheglin,  you  muft  add  of  your  herbs  or  take 
away.  When  y©u  have  put  thefe  things  together, 
fet  it  upon  a  quick  fire,  and  let  it  boil  as  faft  as  you 
can  for  half  an  hour,  or  better,-  skimming  of  it 

D  very 


[4«] 

very  clean,  which  you  mult  clarifie  with  two  or 
three  whites  of  eggs.  Then  take  it  off  from  the 
fire,  and  put  it  preiently  into  fome  clean  covers  , 
and  let  it  ftand  till  the  next  morning ;  then  pour 
the  clear  from  the  bottom  and  tun  it  up  ;  putting 
in  a  little  bag  of  fuch  Spice  as  you  like  ,  whereof 
Ginger  muft  be  the  molt.  After  ir.  hath  flood  fome 
three  or  four  days,  you  may  put  in  fome  twonor 
three  fpoonfuls  of  good  Ale-yeaft  j  it  will  make 
it  ready  the  fooner  to  drink,  if  you  let  it  work  to¬ 
gether  before  you  Hop  it  up. 

The  older  the  honey  is,  the  whiter  coloured  the 
Metheglin  will  be. 

To  make  white  Metheglin  of  Sir  J.  Fortefcuc. 

Take  twelve  gallons  of  water,  one  handful  of 
each  of  thefe  herbs,Eglantine,  Rofemary,  Parfley, 
Strawberry-leaves,  Wild-thyme,  Bahn  ,  Liver¬ 
wort,  Betony,  Scabious  ;  when  your  water  begins 
to  boil  call  in  your  herbs,and  let  them  boil  a  quar¬ 
ter  of  an  hour  :  then  ftrain  it  from  the  herbs. 
When  it  is  almoft  cold,  then  put  in  as  much  of  the 
bell  honey,  as  will  make  it  bear  an  egg,  to  the 
breadth  of  two  pence,  and  flir  it  till  all  the  honey 
be  melted.  Then  boil  it  well  half  an  hour  at  the 
leaft,  and  put  into  it  the  whites  of  fix  eggs  beat¬ 
en  to  a  froth  to  clarifie  it ;  and  when  it  hath  drawn 
all  the  feum  to  the  top,  ftrain  it  into  wooden  vefi- 
fiels.  When  it  is  almoft  cold,  put  barm  to  it ,  and 
when  it  worketh  well,  tun  it  into  a  vyell  fealoned 
veffel ,  where  neither  Ale  nor  Beer  hath  been,for 
marring  the  colour ;  and  when  it  Jiath  done  work¬ 
ing,  take  a  good  quantity  of  Nutmegs  ,  Mace, 
Cinnamon,  Cloves ,  and  Ginger  bruifed,  and  put 
it  into  a  boulter-bag,  and  hang  it  in  the- barrel. 


If 


If  you  will  have  it  taftemuch  of  the  ipice,  let 
it  boil  three  or  four  walms  in  it,after  you  have  put 
in  the  honey.  But  that  will  make  it  have  a  deep 
colour. 

A  Receipt  for  Meath. 

To  feven  quarts  of  water ,  rake  two  quarts  of 
honey.,  and  mix  it  well  together  j  then  fee  it  on 
the  fire  to  boil ,  and  take  three  or  four  Parfley- 
roots,  and  as  many  Fennel-roots,  and  ffiave  them 
clean,  and  flice  them ,  and  put  them  into  the  li¬ 
quor,  and  boil  all  together,  and  skim  it  very  well 
all  the  while  it  is  a  boiling  5  and  when  there  will 
no  more  feum  rife ,  then  is  it  boiled  enough :  but 
be  careful  that  none  of  the  leum  do  boil  into  it* 
Then  take  it  off,  and  let  it  cool  till  the  next  day. 
Then  put  it  up  in  a  clofe  veflel ,  and  put  thereto 
half  a  pint  of  new  good  barm ,  and  a  very  few 
Cloves  pounded  and  put  in  a  linen-cloth ,  and 
ty  it  in.  the  veffel,  and  flop  it  up  clofe ;  and  with» 
in  a  fortnight  it  will  be  ready  to  drink :  but  if  it 
ftay  longer,  it  will  be  the  better. 

My  Lord  Gorge  his  Meath. 

Take  a  fufficient  quantity  of  rain-water  ,  and 
boil  in  it  the  tops  of  Rofemary, Eglantine,  Betony, 
Strawberry-leaves,  Wall-flowers,  Borage ,  and 
Buglofs,  of  each  one  handful :  one  fprig  of  Bays, 
and  two  or  three  of  Sage.  Then  take  it  off  the 
fire,  and  put  a  whole  raw  egg  into  it ,  and  pour  fo 
much  honey  to  it ,  till  the  egg  rife  up  to  the  top  ; 
then  boil  it  again  ,  skimming  it  very  well,  and  lb 
let  it  cool.  Then  tun  it  up,  and  put  barm  to  itjthat 
it  may  ferment  well.  Then  flop  it  up »  and 

D  2.  '  hang 


[48] 

hang  in  it  fuch  Spices  as  you  like  beft.  It  will  not 
be  right  to  drink  under  three  or  four  months. 

The  Lady  Vernon’s  White  Metheglin . 

Take  three  gallons  of  water  (rain-water  is  beft) 
boil  in  it  broad  Thyme,  Rofemary,  Peny-royal, 
of  each  three  handfuls.  Then  put  it  into  a  ftone 
pan  to  cool,  and  ftrain  away  the  herbs ;  and  when 
it  is  cold,  put  in  one  quart  of  honey,  and  mix  it 
very  well ;  then  put  to  it  one  Nutmeg,  a  little  Cin¬ 
namon,  Cloves  and  Ginger  ;  fome  Orange  and 
Limon-peels.  Then  boil  and  fcum  it  very  well, 
while  any  fcum  will  rife.  Then  put  in  your  Spices, 
and  try  with  a  new-laid  egg ;  and  the  ftronger  it 
is,  the  longer  you  may  keep  it ;  and  if  you  will 
drink  it  prelently,  put  it  up  in  bottles ,  and  rub 
the  corks  with  yean:,  that  it  may  touch  it,  and  it 
will  be  ready  in  three  or  four  days  to  drink.  And 
if  you  make  it  in  the  Spring,  put  no  Spices,  but 
Cloves  and  Cinnamon  ,  ana  add  Violets ,  Cow- 
flips,  Marigolds,  and  Gillyflowers;  andbefure 
to  flop  your  velfel  clofe  with  cork ;  and  to  this  put 
no  yeaft,  for  the  Clove-gilly  flowers  will  fet  it  to 
work. 

Several  forts  of  Meath  fmall  and  Jlrong, 

1.  Small  Take  ten  gallons  of  water;  and  five 
quarts  of  honey ,  with  a  little  Rofemary ,  more 
Sweet-bryar  ,  fome  Balm ,  Burnet,  Cloves,  lefs 
Ginger,  Limon-peel.  Tun  it  with  a  little  Barm  ; 
let  it  remain  a  week  in  the  barrel  with  a  bag  ofEl- 
der-flowers  ;  then  bottle  it. 

2.  Small.  Take  ten  quarts  of  water,  and  one  of 
honey^Balm  a  little.  Mint,  Cloves,  Limon.pel, 


,  [  49  ] 

■Elder-flowers,  a  little  Ginger;  wrought  with  a 
little  yeaft,  bottle  it  after  a  nights  working. 

3  .  Strong.  Take  ten  gallons  of  water,  thirteen 
quarts  of  noney,  with  Angelica,  Borage,  and 
Buglofs ,  Rofemary ,  Balm ,  and  Sweet-bryar  ; 
pour  it  into  a  barrel,  upon  three  fpoonfuls  of  yeaft; 
hang  in  a  bag  Cloves,  Elder-flowers,  and  a  little 
Ginger. 

4,  Very  jlrong .  Take  ten  gallons  of  water,  and 
four  of  Honey  ,  -with  Sea  wormwood,  a  little 
Sage,  Rofemary;  put  it  in  a  barrel,  after  three 
days  cooling.  Put  no  yeaft  to  it.  Stop  it  clofc,  and 
bottle  it  after  three  or  lour  months. 

f.  Very  Jlrong.  To  ten  gallons  of  water  take  four 
of  Honey  ;  clarifie  it  with  flour,  and  put  into  it 
Angelica,  Rofemary,  Bay-leaves,  Balm :  barrel 
it  without  yeaft.  Hang  in  a  bag  Cloves,  Elder- 
flowers,  a  little  Ginger. 

6.  Very  Jlrong.  Take  ten  gallons  of  water,  and 
four  of  Honey ;  boil  nothing  in  it :  barrel  it  when 
cold,  without  yeaft.  Hang  in  it  a  bag  with  Cloves, 
Elder-flowers,  a  little  Ginger  and  Limon-peel ; 
which  throw  away  when  it  hath  done  Working,& 
flop  it  clofe.  You  may  make  alfo  ftrong  and  fmall 
by  putting  into  it  Orris-roots  ;  or  with  Rofema¬ 
ry,  Betony,  Eye-bright,  and  Wood-forrel :  or  ad¬ 
ding  to  it  the  tops  of  Hypericon,  with  the  flowers 
of  it  5  Sweet-bryar,  Lilly  of  the  Valley, 

To  make.  Meath. 

'  Take  three  gallons  of  water,  a  quart  of  Honey, 
if  it  be  not  ftrong  enough  you  may  add  more ; 
’  boil  it  apace  an  hour,and  fcum  it  very  clean  then 
.  take  it  off,  and  fet  it  a  working  at  fuch  heat  as  you 
fet  Beer,  with  good  yeaft then  put  it  in  a  rundlet, 

D  3  and 


[  fO  ] 


and  at  three  days  end  draw  it  out  in  ftone  bottles  5 
into  every  one  put  a  piece  of  Limon-peef,  and 
two  Cloves.lt  is  only  put  into  (he  rundlet  whilft 
it  worketh,  to  avoid  tne  breaking  of  the  bottles. 


Sir  John  Arnndels  white  Meath. 


Take  three  gallons  of  Honey,  and  twelve  gal¬ 
lons  of  water  ;  mix  the  Honey  and  water  very 
well  together,  till  the  Honey  is  .diflblved ;  fo  let 
it.ftand  twelve  hours.  Then  put  in  a  new-laid  eggs 
if  the  liquor  beareth  the  egg,  that  you  fee  the 
breadth  of  a  groat  upon  the  egg  dry,you  may  fet  it 
over  the  fire  :  if  it  doth  not  bear  the  egg,  then  you 
mull  add  a  quart  or  three  pints  more  to  the  reft  ; 
and  then  fet  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently, 
till  you  have  skimmed  it  very  dean ,  and  clarified 
it,  as  you  would  do  Sugar,  with  the  whites  of 
three  new-laid  eggs.  When  it  is  thus  made  clear 
from  all  fcum,  let  it  boil  a  full  hour  or  more,  till 
the  fourth  part  of  it  is  wafted  ••  then  take  it  off  the 
fire,  and  let  it  ftand  till  the  next  day.  Then  put  it 
into  a  veflel.  When  it  hath  been  in  the  barrel  five 
or  fix  days,  make  a  white  toaft,  and  dip  it  into 
new  yeaft,  and  put  the  toaft  into  the  barrel,  and 
let  it  work.  When  it  hath  do/ie  working,  flop  it 
up  very  clofe.  This  keep  three  quarters  of  a  year. 
You  may  drink  it  within  half  a, year,  if  you  pleafe. 
You  may  add  in  the  boiling  of  what  herbs  you  like 
the  tafte,  or  what  is  Phyfical. 


To  make  Methcgiirt . 


Take  eight  gallons  of  water,  and  fet  it  over  a 
dear  fire  in  a  kettle  ;  and  when  it  is  warm,  put  in- 
ro  it  fixteen  pound  of  very  good  Honey?  ftir  it 

well 


[  5*  ] 

well  together,  till  it  be  all  mixed  ;  and  when  it 
boileth  take  off  the  fcum  ,  and  put  in  two  large 
Nutmegs  cut  into  quarters,  and  16  let  it  boil  at 
leaft  an  hour.  Then  take  it  off,  and  putintoit 
two  good  handfuls  of  grinded  Mault ,  and  with  a 
white  Itaff  keep  beating  it  together ,  till  it  be  al- 
molt  cold :  then  ftrain  it  through  a  hair  fieve  into 
a  tub,  and  put  to  it  a  wine  pint  of  Ale-yeaft,  and 
ftir  it  very  well  together  ;  and  when  it  is  cold,you 
may  if  you  pleale,  tun  it  up  prefently  in  a  veffel  fit 
for  it,  or  elfe  let  it  Hand  and  work  a  day:  and 
when  it  hath  done  working  in  your  veffel,  ftop  it 
up  very  clofe.  It  will  be  three  weeks  or  a  month 
before  it  will  be  ready  to  drink. 

To  make  white  Meath. 

Take  fix  gallons  of  water  ,  and  put  in  fix  quarts 
of  honey,  ftirring  it  till  the  Honey  be  throughly 
melted  j  then  let  it  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  is 
ready  to  boil,  skim  it  very  clean :  Then  put  in  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  Mace ,  fo  much  Ginger  , 
half  an  ounce  of  Nutmegs,  Sweet-marjoram, 
Broad-thyme,  and  Sweet-brvar,  of  all  together  a 
handful ,  and  boil  them  well  therein  :  then  let  it 
by  till  it  be  through  cold,  and  then  barrel  it  up, 
and  keep  it  till  it  be  ripe. 

To  make  a  Meath  good  for  the  Liver  and  Lungs. 

Take  of  the  roots  of  Colts-foot ,  Fennel ,  and 
Fearn,  each  four  ounces ;  of  Succory-roots,  Sor¬ 
rel-roots,  Strawberry-roots,  Bitterfweet-roots , 
each  two  ounces,  of  Scabious-roots,  and  Elecam¬ 
pane-roots  ,  each  an  ounce  and  an  half;  Ground- 
ivy,  Hore-hound, Oak  of  Jerufalem ,  Lung- wort, 

D  4  Liver- 


[  ] 

Liver- Wort,  Maiden-hair,  Hirts-tongue,  of  each 
two  good  handfuls.  Licorice  four  ounces.  Jujubes, 
Raifins  of  the  Sun  and  Currants ,  of  each  two  oun¬ 
ces  ;  let  the  roots  be  diced,  and  the  herbs  be  bro¬ 
ken  a  little  with  your  hands  j  and  boil  all  thefe  in 
twenty  quarts  of  fair  running  water:  or,  if  you 
have  it,in  rain-water,with  five  pints  of  good  white 
Honey,  until  one  third  be  boiled  away :  then  pour 
the  liquor  through  a  jelly  bag  often  upon  a  little 
Coriander-feeds ,  and  Cinnamon ;  and  when  it 
runneth  very  clear,  put  it  into  bottles  well  flop¬ 
ped, ‘and  fet  it  to  cool  for  your  ufe,  and  drink  eve¬ 
ry  morning  a  good  draught  of  it,  and  at  five  ip 
the  afternoon. 

To  make  white  Metheghn. 

Put  to  three  gallons  of  Spring-water,  one  of  ho¬ 
ney  ;  firfl  let  it  gently  melt,  then  boil  for  an  hour, 
continually  skimming  it ,  then  put  it  into  an  ear¬ 
then  or  a  wooden  veflel,  &  when  it  is  a  little  more 
then  blood-warm,fet  it  with  Ale-yeafl,  and  fo  Jet 
it  fland  twelve  hours.  Then  take  off  the  yeafl,  and 
bottle  it  up.'  Put  into  it  Limon-peel  and  Cloves, 
or  what  befl  plcafeth  your  tafle  ol  Spice  or  Herbs. 
Eringo-roots  put  into  it  when  it  is  boiling  maketh 
it  much  better. 

Note,  That  if  you  make  Hydromcl  by  fermen¬ 
tation  in  the  hot  Sun  (  which  will  laft  about  fourty 
days,  and  requireth  the  greater  heat )  you  muft 
;ake  it  thence  before  it  be  quite  ended  working  5 
and  flop  it  up  very  clofe,  and  fet  it  in  a  cold  Cel-' 
far,  and  not  pierce  it  in  two  months  at  the  foonefl. 
jt  will  be  very  good  this  way,  if  you  make  it  fo 
flrong  as  to  bear  an  egg  very  boyant.  It  is  befl 
made  by  taking  all  the  Canticular  days  into  your 
fermentation.  ^ 


A 


f  ?3  1 

A  very  good  Meath. 

Put  three  parts  of  water  to  one  of  Honey.  When 
the  Honey  is  diffolved,  it  is  to  bear  an  egg  boyant. 
Boil  it  and  skim  it  perfe&ly  clear.  You  may  boil  in 
it  Pellitory  of  the  wall.  Agrimony,  or  what  herbs 
you  pleafe.  To  every  ten  gallons  of  water,  take 
Ginger,  Cinnamon,  ana  one  ounce.  Nutmegs  half 
an  ounce ;  divide  this  quantity  (diced  and  bruifed) 
into  two  parts.  Boil  the  one  in  the  Meath,fevering 
it  from  the  liquor,  when  it  is  boiled,  by  running 
through  a  ftramer ;  and  hang  the  other  parcel  in 
the  barrel  by  the  bung  in  a  bag  with  a  bullet  in  it. 
When  it  is  cold  tun  it,  and  then  you  may  work  it 
with  barm  if  you  pleafe ;  but  it  is  moft  commend¬ 
ed  without. 

To  make  white  Metheglin. 

Take  the  Honey-cornbs  that  the  Honey  is  run  out 
from  them,and  lay  them  in  water  over  night ;  next 
day  ftrain  them,and  put  the  liquor  a  boiling :  then 
take  the  whites  of  two  or  three  eggs,  and  clarifie 
the  liquor.  When  you  have  fo  done,  skim  it  clean* 
Then  take  a  handful  of  Penny-royal,  four  handfuls 
of  Angelica,  a  handful  of  Rofemary,  a  handful  of 
Borage,  a  handful  of  Maiden-hair,  a  handful  of 
Harts-tongue ;  of  Liver-wort,  of  Water-crefles, 
of  Scurvy-grafs,  ana  a  handful ;  of  the  roots  of 
Marfhmallows,  Parfley,  Fennel,  ana  one  ounce. 
Let  all  thefe  boil  together  in  the  liquor,the  fpace  of 
a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Then  ftrain  the  liquor  from 
them,  and  let  it  cool,  till  it  be  blood-warm.  Put  in 
fo  much  honey,  until  an  egg  fwiin  on  it ;  and  when 
your  Honey  is  melted,  then  put  it  into  the  Barrel. 

When 


L  Hi 

When  it  is  almoft  cold,  put  a  little  Ale-barm  to  it  j 
and  when.it  hath  done  working,p.ut  into  your  bar¬ 
rel  a  bag  of  Spice,  of  Nutmegs,  Ginger,  Claves, 
and  Mace,and  Grains  good  ftore  ;  and  if  you  wills 
put  into  a  Lawn-bag  two  grains  of  Ambergreece, 
and  two  grains  of  Musk,  and  fallen  it  in  the  mouth 
of  your  barrel,  and  fo  let  it  hang  in  the  liquor. 

A  mojl  excellent  Metheglin. 

Take  one  part  of  Honey  to  eight  parts  of  Rain 
or  River-water  ;  let  it  boil  gently  together,  in  a 
fit  velfel,  till  a  third  part  be  wafted,  skimming  it 
very  well.  The  fign  of  being  boiled  enough,  is, 
when  a  new-laid  egg  fwims  upon  it.  Cleanle  it  af¬ 
terwards  by  letting  it  run  through  a  clean  linncn 
cloth,  and  put  it  into  a  wooden  Rundlet,  where 
there  hath  been  wine  in,  and  hang  in  it  a  bag  with 
Muftard-feedsby  the  bung,  that  fo  you  may  take  it 
out  when  you  pleafe.  This  being  done,  put  your 
Rundlet  into  the  hot  Sun,  efpecially  during  the 
Dog-days  (  which  is  the  only  time  to  prepare  it  ) 
and  your  Metheglin  will  boil  like  Muft  ;  after 
which  boiling,  take  out  your  Muftard-feeds,  and 
put  your  velfel  well  Hopped  into  a  Cellar.  If  you 
will  have  it  the  tafte  ot  wine,  put  to  thirty  mea¬ 
sures  of  Hydromel ,  one  meafure  of  the  juyce 
of  Hops,  and  it  will  begin  to  boil  without  any 
heat.  Then  fill  up  your  velfel,  and  prefently  af¬ 
ter  this  ebullition  you  will  have  a  very  llrong  Me¬ 
theglin. 

To  make  white  Metheglin  of  the  Countefs  of 
Dorfet. 

Take  Rofemary, Thyme, Sweet-bryar,Peny-roy- 

al. 


[*y] 

al,  Bays,  Water-crcffes,  Agrimony,Marflimallow- 
leaves,  Liver-wort,  Maiden-hair,  Betony,  Eye- 
bright,  Scabious,  the  bark  of  the  A(h-tree,Eringo« 
roots.  Green-wild  Angelica,Ribwort,Sanicle,Ro- 
man-wormwood.  Tamarisk,  Mother-thyme,  Saf- 
fafras,  Philip endula,  of  each  of  thefe  herbs  a  like 
proportion,  or  of  as  many  of  them  as  you  pleafe  to 
put  in.  But  you  muft  put  in  all  but  four  handfuls  of 
nerbs,which  you  muft  fteep  one  night,  and  one 
day,  in  a  little  bowl  of  water,  being  clofe  cover¬ 
ed  ;  the  next  day  take  another  quantity  of  frelh 
.  water,  and  boil  the  fame  herbs  in  it,  till  the  colour 
be  very  high ;  then  take  another  quantity  of  water, 
and  boil  the  fame  herbs  in  it,  until  they  look  green  j 
and  fo  let  it  boil  three  or  four  times  in  feveral 
waters,  as  long  as  the  liquor  looketh  any  thing 
green.  Then  let  it  ftand  with  thefe  herbs  in 
it  a  day  and  night.  Remember  the  laft  water 
you  boil  it  in  this  proportion  of  herbs,  muft 
be  twelve  gallons  of  water  ,  and  when  it 
hath  flood  a  day  and  a  night ,  with  thefe  herbs 
in  it,  after  the  laft  boiling,  then  ftrain  the  li¬ 
quor  from  the  herbs,  and  put  as  much  of  the  fineft 
and  beft  Honey  into  the  liquor,  as  will  make  it 
bear  an  egg.  You  muft  work  and  labour  the  Honey 
and  liquor  together  one  whole  day,  until  the  Ho¬ 
ney  be  confumed.  Then  Itet  it  ftand  a  whole  night, 
and  then  let  it  be  well  laboured  again ,  and  let  it 
ftand  again  a  clearing,  and  fo  boil  it  again,  a  quar^ 
ter  of  an  hour  with  the  whites  of  fix  new  laid  eggs 
with  the  fhells,  the  yolks  being  taken  out*  fo 
feum  it  very  clean,  and  let  it  ftand  a  day  a  cool¬ 
ing.  Then  put  it  into  a  barrel,  and  take  Cloves, 
Mace,  Cinnamon,  and  Nutmegs,  as  much  as  will 
pleafe  your  tafte,  and  beat  them  all  together  put 
them  inro  a  linen  bam  and  hang  it  with  a  thread  in 


•  '  w 

the  barrel.  Take  heed  you  put  not  too  much  Spice 
in ;  a  little  will  ferve.  Take  the  whites  of  two  or 
three  new-laid  eggs,  a  fpoonful  of  Barm.,  and  a 
jfpoonful  of  wheat-flower,  and  beat  them  all  toge¬ 
ther,  and  put  it  into  your  liquor  into  the  barrel,and 
let  it  work  before  you  flop  it.Then  afterwards  flop 
it  well,and  clofe  it  well  with  clay  and  fait  temper¬ 
ed  together,  and  let  it  be  fet  in  a  clofe  place ;  and 
when  it  hath  been  fetled  fome  fix  weeks,  draw  it 
into  bottles,  and  flop  it  very  clofe,  and  drink  it  not 
a  month  after but  it  will  keep  well  halfa  year,and 
more. 


Another  way  to  make  white  Metheglin. 


Take  ten  gallons  of  water,  then  take  fix  handfuls 
ofSweet-bryar;  as  much  of  Sweet-marjoram  and 
as  much  of  Mufcovy.  Three  handfuls  of  the  belt 
Broad-thyme.  Boil  thefe  together  half  an  hour ; 
then  ftrain  them,  then  take  two  gallons  ofEnglifh 
Honey,  and  dilfolve  it  in  this  hot  liquor,  and  brew 
it  well  together  5  then  fet  it  over  the  fire  to  boil 
again,  and  skim  it  very  clean ;  then  take  the  whites 
of  thirty  eggs  well  beaten,  and  put  them  into  the 
liquor,and  let  it  boil  an  hour ;  then  ftrain  it  through 
a  jelly  bag,  and  let  it  ftand  four  and  twenty  hours 
cooling  ;  then  put  it  up  in  a  veffel.  Then  take  fix 
Nutmegs,  fix  fair  Races  of  Ginger,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  Cloves,  half  an  ounce  of  Cinnamon  j 
bruife  all  thefe  together,  and  put  them  into  a  linen 
bag,with  a  little  Pebble-ftone  to  make  it  fink.Then 
hang  it  in  the  veffel.  You  may  add  to  it  if  you 
pleaie,  two  grains  of  Ambergreece,  and  one  grain 
of  Musk.  Stop  the  veffel  with  a  Cork,  but  not  too 

clofe 


[J7l 

elofc  for  fix  days;  then  tafte  it,and  if  it  tafte  enough 
of  the  Spice,  then  take  out  the  bag  ;  if  not,  let  the 
bag  hang  in  it,  and  flop  it  very  clofe,  and  meddle 
with  it  no  more.  It  will  be  ready  to  drink  in  nine 
or  ten  weeks. 

A  Receipt  to  makegood  Meath. 

Take  as  many  gallons  of  water,  as  you  intend  to 
make  of  Meath,  and  to  every  gallon  put  a  quart  of 
honey,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  bear  an  egg.  To  every 
gallon  you  allow  the  white  of  an  egg,  which  white 
you  muit  remove  and  break  with  your  hands,  and 
put  into  the  Kettle,  before  you  put  it  over  the  fire. 
Before  it  boileth,there  will  rife  a  feum, which  mult 
be  taken  offvery  clean,as  it  ril'eth.Put  to  every  gal¬ 
lon  two  Nutmegs  fliced,  and  when  it  hath  boiled 
enough,  take  it  off,  and  fet  it  a  cooling  in  clean 
wort-veffels :  and  when  it  is  as  cold  as  wort,  put 
in  a  little  barm,  and  work  it  like  Beer, .  and  when 
it  hath  done  working ,  flop  it  up ,  and  let  it  ftand 
two  months. 

Another  to  make  Meath, 

To  every  quart  of  Honey  allow  fix  wine  quarts 
of  water ;  half  an  ounce  of  Nutmegs,  and  the  peel 
of  a  Limon,  and  the  meat  of  two  or  three,  as  you 
make  the  quantity.  Boil  thefe  together ,  till  the 
feum  rife  no  more  :  It  muft  ftand  till  it  be  quite 
cold,  and  when  you  tun  it,  you  fqueeze  into  it  the 
juyee  of  fome  Limons,  and  this  will  make  it  ripen 
quickly.  It  will  be  ready  in  lefs  than  a  month. 


'Another 


[J8] 

Another  Receipt. 

Take  twelve  gallons  of  water,  a  handful  ofMuf* 
covy  (which  is  an  herb  that  fmelleth  like  Musk)  a 
hanful  of  Sweet-marjoram,  and  as  much  of  Sweet- 
bryar.  Boil  all  thele  in  the  water,  till  all  the 
ftrength  be  out.  Then  take  it  off,  and  ftrain  it  out, 
and  being  almoft  cold,  fweeten  it  with  Honey  very 
ftrong,  more  then  to  bear  an  egg  (the  meaning  of 
this  is,that  when  there  is  Honey  enough  to  bear  an 
egg,  which  will  be  done  by  one  part  of  Honey  to 
three  or  four  quarts  of  water:  then  you  add  to  it 
a  pretty  deal  of  Honey  more,  at  leaft  one  quarter, 
or  one  third  of  what  you  did  put  in  at  firft  to  make 
it  bear  an  egg;  then  it  is  to  be  boiled  and  feummed: 
when  it  is  thus  ftrong,  you  may  keep  it  four  years 
before  you  drink  it.  But  at  the  end  of  two  years 
you  may  draw  it  out  into  bottles)  juft  above  it,elfe 
it  will  not  keep  very  long,  for  the  more  honey  the 
better.  Then  fet  it  over  the  fire  till  it  boils,  and 
feum  it  very  clean.  Then  take  it  from  the  fire,  and 
let  it  ftand  till  it  be  cold :  then  put  it  into  your  vef- 
fel.  Take  Mace,  Cloves,  Nutmegs,  Ginger,of  each 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce :  beat  them  final!,  and  hang 
them  in  your  veffel  (being  flopped  clofe)  in  a  little 
bag. 

Note, when  any  Meath  or  Metheglin  grows  hard 
or  fowre  with  keeping  too  long,  difiolve  in  it  a 
good  quantity  of  freih  Honey,  to  make  it  plea- 
fantly  nveet;  (but  boil  it  no  more,after  it  hath  once 
fermented,  as  it  did  at  the  firft  tunning)  and  with 
that  it  will  ferment  again,  and  become  very  good, 
pleafan-t,  and  quick. 


[  ?9  ]  ! 

To  make  Methcglm. 

Take  of  Rofemary  three  handfuls,  of  Winter-fa- 
voryapeckby  meafure,  Organ,  and  Thyme  as 
much.  White-wort  two  handfuls.  Blood-wort  half 
a  peck,  Hyl'op  two  handfuls.  Marigolds,  Borage, 
Fennel,  of  each  two  handfuls.  Strawberries  and 
Violet-leaves,  of  each  one  handfuls  ;  of  Harts- 
tongue.  Liverwort  a  peck.  Ribwort  half  a  peck,  of 
Eglantine  with  the  roots,a  good  quantity}  Worm¬ 
wood  as  much  as  you  can  gripe  in  two  handsjand  of 
Sorrel,  Mead-fut,  Betony  with  the  Roots,  Blue¬ 
bottles  with  the  Roots,  the  like  quantity }  of  Eye- 
bright  two  handfuls.  Wood-bine  one  handful.Take 
all  thefe  herbs,  and  order  them  fo,  as  that  the  hot 
herbs  may  be  mattered  with  the  cool.  Then  take 
the  fmall  herbs,  and  put  them  into  the  Furnace,and 
lay  the  long  herbs  upon  them.  Then  rake  a  weight 
or  ftone  of  Lead,  having  a  Ring,  whereunto  fallen 
a  flick  to  keep  down  the  herbs  into  the  Furnace? 
then  boil  your  water  herbs  three  or  four  hours, 
and  as  the  water  doth  boil  away,  add  more.  Then 
take  the  water  out  of  theFurnace  Teething  hot,and 
ftrain  it  through  a  Range-fieve  3  then  put  in  the 
Honey,  and  mafh  it  well  together  :  then  take  your 
Sweet- wort,  and  ftrain  it  through  a  Range.  Then 
try  it  with  a  new  laid  egg.  It  muftbe  foftrongasto 
bear  an  egg  the  breadth  ofa  groat  above  the  liquorr 
and  if  it  doth  not,  then  put  in  more  honey,  till  it 
will  bear  the  Ege.  Then  take  the  Liquor,  and  boil 
it  again  }  and  alfoon  as  it  doth  boil,  skim  the  froth 
very  clean  from  it ;  then  fet  it  a  cooling,  and  when 
it  is  cold,  then  put  it  into  a  Kiver,  and  put  barm 
thereto,  and  let  it  work  the  fpace  of  a  Week  }Then 
tun  it  up,  but  be  careful  when  it  is  tunned,  that  the 

veflels 


[  <j°] 

veffels  be  not  flopped  up ,  till  it  hath  done  hiP 
Jing. 

Another  fort  of  Metheglin ; 

Take  to  one  part  of  Honey  three  parts  of  water, 
and  put  them  into  clean  veffels,  mixing  them  very 
well  together,  and  breaking  the  Honey  with  ftrip- 
ped  arms.,  till  it  be  well  dilfolved.  Then  pour  out 
your  liquor  into  a  large  Kettle  ,  and  let  it  boil  for 
two  hours  and  a  half,  over  a  good  fire,skimtning  it 
all  the  while  very  carefully ,  as  long  as  any  feum 
rifeth.  When  it  is  boiled  enough ,  pour  out  your 
liquor  into  clean  veflels,  and  fet  it  to  cool  for  four 
and  twenty  hours.  Afterwards  put  it  into  fome 
rundlets,  and  cover  the  bung  with  a  piece  of  lead : 
have  a  care  to  fill  it  up  always  with  the  fame  boiled 
liquor  for  three  or  four  months,  and  during  the 
time  of  working.  This  Meath  the  older  it  is,  the 
better  it  is ;  but  if  you  will  have  your  Meath  red, 
then  take  twenty  pound  of  black  Currans,  and  put 
them  into  a  vefiel,  and  pour  your  liquor  on  them. 
Of  this  Honey-liquor  you  cannot  drink  till  after 
nine  months  or  a' year. 

J Ay  Lord  Herbert’.?  Meath. 

Take  ten  gallons  of  water,  and  to  every  gallon 
of  water  a  quart  of  Honey,  a  handful  and  a  half  of 
Rofemary,  one  ounce  of  Mace,  one  ounce  and  a 
half  of  Nutmegs,  as  much  of  Cinnamon,  half  an 
ounce  of  Cloves,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Ginger 
feraped  and  cut  in  pieces.  Put  all  thefe  into  the  Wa¬ 
ter,  and  let  it  boil  half  an*  hour  5  then  take  it  off 
the  fire,  and  let  it  ftand ,  till  you  may  fee  your 
lhadow  in  it.  Then  put  in  the  Honey ,  and  fet  ic 

upo„ 


[  ft  ] 

upon  the  fire  again.  Then  take  the  fhells  and 
whites  of  a  dozen  eggs.,  and  beat  them  both  very 
well  together  5  and  when  it  is  ready  to  boil  up,puE 
in  your  eggs  and  ftir  it  5  then  skim  it  clean  and 
take  it  oft  the  fire,  and  put  it  into  veflels  to  cool, 
as  you  do  wort.  When  it  is  cold,  let  it  together 
with  fome  barm,  as  you  do  Beer.  When  it  is  put 
together  leave  the  fettlings  behind  in  the  bottom ; 
as  foon  as  it  is  white  over,  tun  it  up  in  a  veflel,and 
when  it  hath  done  working,  flop  it  up  as  you  do 
Beer.  When  it  is  three  weeks  old,  it  will  be  fit  to 
bottle  or.  drink. 

Another  ivhite  Meath. 

Take  three  pound  of  white  Honey,  or  thebeft 
Hamp/bire-Honey ,  and  diflblve  it  in  a  gallon  of 
water,  and  then  boil  it ;  and  when  it  Seginneth 
fii-ft  to  boil,  put  into  it  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  Ginger  a  little  bruiled,  and  a  very  little  Cloves 
and  Mace  bruifed,  and  a  fmall  quantity  of  Agri¬ 
mony.  Let  all  this  boil  together  a  full  hour,  and 
keep  it  conftantly  skimmed,  as  long  as  any  lcum 
will  rife  upon  it.  Then  ftrain  it  forth  into  fome 
dean  Kiver  or  other  veflel,  and  let  it  ftand  a  cool¬ 
ing  ;  and  when  it  is  cold,  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  all 
creamed  over  with  a  blackifh  Cream,  and  that  it 
make  a  kind  'of  hiding  noife ;  then  put  it  up  into 
your  veflel,and  in  two'or  three  months  time  it  will 
be  fit  to  drink. 

Look  how  much  you  intend  to  make,  the  fame 
quantities  muft  be  allowed  to  every  gallon  of 
water. 


h  To 

I*  " 


[  <52  ] 

To  make  Metheglin. 

Take  fair  water,  and  the  belt  Honey,  beat  them 
well  together,  but  not  in  a  wooden  veffel,  for 
wood  drinketh  up  the  Honey,  put  it  together  in  a 
Kettle,  and  try  it  with  a  new  laid  egg,  which  will 
fwim  at  top,  if  it  be  very  ft  tong- 5  but  if  it  bob  up, 
and  fink  again,it  will  be  too  weak.  Boil  it  an  hour, 
and  put  into  it  a  bundle  of  herbs,  what  fort  you 
like  beft  ;  and  a  little  bag  of  Spice,  Nutmegs,  Gin- 
ger,Cloves,Mace,  and  Cinnamon ;  and  skim  it  well 
all  the  while  it  boileth :  when  it  hath  boiled  an 
hour,  take  it  ofiyand  put  it  into  earthen  pans,  and 
fo  let  it  Hand  till  the  next  day.  Then  pour  off  all 
the  clear  into  a  good  veffel,  that  hath  had  Sack  in 
it,  or  white  Wine.  Hang  the  bag  of  Spice  in  it, 
and  lo  let  it  ftand  very  dole  flopp'd  and  well  filled 
far  a  month,  or  longer.  Then  if  you  defire  to 
drink  it  quickly,  you  may  bottle  it  up.  If  it  be 
ftrong  of  the  Honey,  you  'may  keep  it  a  year  or 
two.  If  weak,  drink  it  in  two  or  three  months. 
One  quart  of  Honey  will  make  one  gallon  of  wa¬ 
ter  very  ftrong.  A  fprig  or  two  of  Rofemary, 
Thyme,  and  Sweet-marjoram,  are  the  herbs  that 
fhould  go  into  it. 

To  make  J mall  Metheglin . 

Take  to  every  quart  of  white  Honey,  fix  quarts 
of  fair  water  ;  let  it  boil  till  a  third  part  be  boil¬ 
ed  away,  skimming  it  as  it  rifeth :  then  put  into  it 
a  fmall  quantity  of  Ginger  largely  lliced:  then 
put  it  out  into  earthen  pans,till  it  be  lukewarm,and 
lb  put  it  up  into  an  earthen  ftand,  with  a  tap  in  it. 
Then  put  to  it  about  half  a  porrenger-full  of  the 


foeft  Ale-yeaft,fobeat  it  well  together :  then  cover 
it  with  a  cloth,  and  it  will  be  twelve  hours  before 
it  work  j  and  afterwards  let  it  ftand  two  days,  and 
then  draw  it  out  into  ftone  bottles,^  and  it  will  be 
ready  to  drink  in  five  or  fix  days  after.  This  pro¬ 
portion  of  yeaft  (  which  is  about  fix  good  fpoon- 
fuls  )  is  enough  for  three  or  four  gallons  of  liquor,. 
The  yeaft  mult  be  of  good  Ale,ana  very  new.  You 
may  mingle  the  yeaft  firft  with  a  little  of  the  luke¬ 
warm  liquor ;  then  beat  it,  till  it  be  well  incorpo¬ 
rated,  and  begins  to  work.  Then  add  a  little  more 
liquor  to  it,  and  beat  that.  Continue  fo  adding 
the  liquor  by  little  and  little,  till  a  good  deal  of  it 
■  be  incorporated  with  the  yeaft ;  then  put  that  to 
all  the  reft  of  the  quantity,  and  beat  it  all  together 
very  well ;  then  cover  it  clofe,  and  keep  it  warm 
for  two  or  three  days.  Before  you  bottle  it,  fcum 
away  all  the  Barm  and  Ginger  (  whereof  a  fpoon- 
ful  or  two  is  enough  for  three  or  four  gallons  J  then 
bottle  up  the  clear,  leaving  the  dregs.  If  you  wiJ]„ 
you  may  tun  it.into  a  barrel,  (if  you  make  a  great¬ 
er  quantity  )  when  the  barm  is  well  incorporated 
with  the  liquor,  in  the  fame  manner  as  you  do  Beer 
or  Ale,  and  fo  let  it  work  in  the  barrel,  as  long  as 
it  will ;  then  flop  it  up  clofe  for  a  few  days  more* 
that  fo  it  may  clear  it  felf  well,  and  feparate  and 
precipitate  the  dregs.  Then  draw  the  clear  into 
bottles.  This  will  make  it  lefs  windy,but  alfo  a  lit¬ 
tle  lefs  quick,  though  more  wholefome.  You  may 
alfo  boil  a  little  handful  of  tops  of  Rofemary  in 
the  liquor,  which  giveth  it  a  fine  tafte;  but  all 
other  herbs,and  particularly  Sweet-marjoram  and 
Thyme,give  it  a  phyfical  tafte.  A  little  Limo'n-ped 
giveth  it  a  very  fine  -tafte.  If  you  tun  it  in  a  bar¬ 
rel,  to  work  there,  you  may  hang  the  Ginger  and 
Limon-ped  in  it  in  a  bag,  till  you  bottle  it,  o.r  till 

E  %  it’- 


it  have  done  working.  Then  you  may  put  two  or 
three  ftoned  and  diced  Raifins,  and  a  lump  of  fine 
Sugar  into  every  bottle  to  make  it  quick. 


To  make  Metheglin. 

Take  five  gallons  of  water,  and  one  gallon  of 
good  white  Honey  ;  'let  it  on  the  fire  together,and 
boil  it  very  well,  and  skim  it  very  clean :  then 
take  it  oft'  the  fire,  and  fet  it  by.  Take  fix  ounces 
of  good  Ginger,  and  two  ounces  of  Cinnamon, 
one  ounce  ot  Ndtmegsj  bruife  all  thele  grofly, 
and  put  them  into  your  hot  liquor,  and  cover  it 
clofe,  and  fo  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  cold.  Then  pur 
as  much  Aic-barra  to  it  as  will  make  it  work  5  then- 
keep  it  in  a  warm  place,  as  you  do  Ale  ;  and  when 
it  hath  wrought  well,  tun  it  up,  as  you  do  Ale  or 
Beer :  and  when  it  is  a  week  old,  drink  of  it  at. 
your  pleafure.. 

An.  excellent  'Metkeghn. 


Take  Spring-water,  and  boil  it  with  Rofemary, 
Sage,  Sweet-marjoram,  Balm,  and  Saflafras,  until 
it  hath  boiled  three  or  four  hours.  The  quantity  of 
the  herbs  is  a  handful  of  them  all,  of  each  a  like 
proportion,  to  a  gallon  of  water.  And  when  ir  is 
boiled,fet  it  to  cool  and  to  fetle  until  the  next  day  j 
then  ftrain  your  Water,and  mix  it  with  Honey,un- 
til  it  will  bear  an  egg  the  breadth  of  a  groat :  then 
fet  it  over  the  fire  to  boil.  Take  the  whites  of 
twenty  or.  thirty  eggs,  and  beat  them  mightily,and 
when  it  boileth,  pour  them  in  at  twice  *,  ftir  it  well 
together,  and  then  let  it  ftand,  until  it  boileth  a- 
pace  before  you  fcum  it,  and  then  fcum  it  well. 
Then  take  it  oft'  the  fire,  and  pour  it  into  earthen- 

things  • 


[  <%  ] 

'things  to  cool;  and  when  it  is  cold,  put  to  it  five 
or  fix  l'poonfuls  of  the  beft  Ale-yeaft  you  can  get : 
ftir  it  together,  and  then  every  day  fcum  it  with  a 
bundle  of  Feathers  till  it  hath  done  working.-Then 
tun  it  up  in  a  Sack-cask,  and  to  every  fix  gallons 
of  Methcglin  put  onepint  of  Aqua,  vita, or  a  quart 
of  Sack,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Ginger  fli- 
.ced,  with  the  peels  of  two  or  three  Lintons  and 
Oranges  in  a  bag  to  hang  in  it. 

The  whites  of  eggs  above-named,  is  a  fit  pro¬ 
portion  for  ten  or  twelve  gallons  of  the  liquor. 

To  make  white  Meath. 

Take  fix  gallons  of  water,  and  put  in  fix  quarts 
of  Honey,  Itirring  it  till  the  Honey  be  throughly 
melted ;  then  fetit  over  the  .fire,  and  when  it  is 
ready  to  boil,  skim  it  clean ;  then  put  in  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  Mace,  fo  much  Ginger,  half  an 
ounce  of  Nutmegs  ;  Sweet-marjoram ,  Broad- 
thyme,  and  Sweet-bryar,  of  all  together  a  hand¬ 
ful,  and  boil  them  well  therein.  Then  fet  it  by  till 
it  be  throughly  cold,  and  barrel  it  up,  and  keep 
it  till  it  be  ripe. 

Another  to  make  Meath. 

To  every  gallon  of  water,  take  a  quart  of  Ho¬ 
ney,  to  every  five  gallons,  a  handful  of  Sweet- 
marjoram,  half  a  handful  of  fliced  Ginger  ;  boil 
all  theie  moderately  three  quarters  of  an  hour  ; 
then  let  it  ftand  and  cool ;  and  being  lukewarm, 
put  to  every  five  gallons,  about  three  quarts  of 
yeaft,  and  let  it  work  a  night  and  a  day.  Then 
take  off  the  yeaft,  and  ftrain  it  into  a  RUnalet  5  and 
when  it  hath  done  vvorkine,  thenftop  it  up,  and  fo 

E  "3  let 


[  66  ] 

Ipt  it  remain  a  month  5  then  drawing  it  out  into 
bottlesj  put  into  every  bottle  two  or  three  ftoned 
Raiffos,  and  a  lump  of  Loaf-Sugar.  It  may  be 
drunk  in  two  months. 

Another  very  good  white  Meath. 

Take  to  every  gallon  of  water  a  quart  of  Ho¬ 
ney  j  boil  in  it  a  little  Rofemary  and  Sweet-mar¬ 
joram  j  but  a  large  quantity  of  Sweet-bryar- 
leaves,  and  a  reafonable  proportion  of  Ginger ; 
boil  thefe  in  the  liquor,  when  it  is  skimmed,  and 
work  it  in  due  time  with  a  little  barm.Then  tun  it 
in  a  veffel,  and  draw  it  into  bottles,  after  it  is  luf- 
ficiently  fetled.  Whites  of  eggs  with  the  fhells 
beaten  together,  do  clarifie  Meath  belt.  If  you 
will  have  your  Meath  cooling,  ufe  Violet  and 
Strawberry-leaves,  Agrimony,  Eglantine,  and  the 
like  ;  adding  Borage  and  Buglofs,and  a  little  Rofe¬ 
mary  and  Sweet-marjoram  to  give  it  vigor. 

Tartar  makes  it  work  Well. 

To  make  white  Metheglin . 

Take  to  three  gallons  of  Spring-water  one  of 
Honey  s  firft  let  it  gently  melt,  then  boil  for  an 
hour,  contiuually  skimming  it  $  then  put  it  into  an 
'earthen  or  wooden  velfel,  and  when  it  is  little 
more  than  blood-warm  fet  it  with  Ale-yeaft,and  lo 
let  it  ftand  twelve  hours ;  then  take  off  the  yeaft, 
and  bottle  it.  Put  in  it  Limon-peel  and  Cloves, 
or  what  beftpleafeth  your  tafte  of  Herbs  or  Spices. 
Eringo-roots  put  into  it  when  it  is  boiling,  ma- 
keth  it  much  better.  So  do  Clove-gilly-flowers  j 
a  quantity  of  which  make  the  Meath  look  like 
Claret-wine.  I  obferve  that  Meath  requireth  fome 

ftrong 


ftrong  herbs  to  make  it  quick  and  fmart  uq>on  th£ 
Palate  j  as  Rofemary,  Bay  leaves,  .Sage,  Thyme, 
Marjoram,  Winter-fa voury,  and  luch  like,  which 
would  be  too  ftrong  and  bitter  in  Ale  or  Beer. 

Tq  make  white  Meath. 

Take  Rofemary,  Thyme,  Sweet-bryar,  Peny- 
royal,  and  Bays,  Water-crelfes,  Agrimony,Marln- 
mallows,  leaves  and  flowers :  Liver-wort, Wood- 
betony.  Eye-bright,  Scabious,  of  each  a  like  quan¬ 
tity  ;  of  the  bark  of  Alh-tree,  of  Eringo-roots 
green ,  of  each  a  proportion  to  the  herbs  j  of 
wild  Angelica,  Ribwort,  Sanicle,  Roman-worm¬ 
wood,  of  each  a  proportion,  which  is,  to  every 
handful  of  the  herbs  above-named,  a  fixteenth 
part  of  a  handful  of  thefe  latter ;  deep  them  a 
night  and  a  day,  in  a  wooden  boul  of  water  cover¬ 
ed:  the  next  day  boil  them  very  well  in  another 
water,  till  the  colour  be  very  high :  Then  take 
another  quantity  of  Water,  and  boil  the  herbs  in 
it,  till  it  look  green,  and  fo  let  it  boil  three  or  four 
times,  or  as  long  as  the  liquor  looketh  any  thing 
green  :  then  let  it  ftand  with  thefe  herbs  in  it  a  day 
and  a  night. 

To  every  gallon  of  this  water,  put  a  quart  of 
pure  clear  Honey,  the  liquor  being  firft  (trained 
from  the  herbs.-  Your  liquor  if  it  be  ftrong  enough 
will  bear  an  egg  the  breadth  of  a  three-pence  a- 
bove  water.  When  you  have  put  the  Honey  into 
the  liquor,you  muft  work  and  labour  it  together  a 
whole  day,  until  the  honey  be  confumed.  Then 
let  it  ftand  a  whole  night  again  a  clearing.  Then 
put  it  into  a  kettle,  and  let  it  boil  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  with  the  whites  and  fhells  of  fix  eggs.  Then 
(train  it  clean,  and  let  it  ftand  aeooling.  Then  put 

E  4  "it 


[  68  ] 

it  into  a  barrel,  and  take  Cloves,  Mace,  Cinnar 
mon.  Nutmegs,  and  beat  them  together  :  put  them 
into  a  linen  bag,  hang  it  with  a  thread  into  the 
barrel.  If  you  would  have  it  work,  that  you  may 
drink  of  it  prefently,  take  the  whites  of  two  or 
three  eggs,  a  fpoonful  of  barm,  a  fpoonful  of 
wheat-hour  ;  beat  all  thefe  together :  let  it  work 
before  you  ftop  it  lfp.  Then  afterwards  ftop  it  well 
with  clay  and  fait  tempered  together,  to  keep  it 
moift. 

To  make  Metheg'in. 

If  your  Honey  be  tried,  take  fix  gallons  of  milk-. 
warm  water,  to  one  of  Honey,  and  ftir  it  well  to¬ 
gether  ever  arid  anon,  and  fo  let  it  ftand  for  a  day 
and  night,  or  half  a  day  may  ferve  j  then  boil  it 
with  a"gentle  fire,  for  the  fpace  of  half  an  hour 
or  thereabouts,  and  skim  it,  ftill  as  the  feum  ari- 
feth.  After  it  is  feummed  once  or  twice,  you  may 
iut  in  your  Herbs,and  Spice  grofly  beaten,one  half 
oofe  }  the  other  in  abag,  which  afterwards  may 
3efa fined  with  a  firing  to  the  tap-hole,  as  Pepper, 
Cloves,  Mace,  Ginger,  and  the  like  ;  when  it  is 
thus  boiled,  let  it  "ftand  in  the  veffel  until  *it  be 
cooled  ;  then  tun  it  up  into  your  barrel,  and  let  it 
work  two  or  three  days,  or  more,  before  you  ftop 
the  bung-hole ;  but  in  putting  up  the  boiled  liquor 
into  the"  barrel,  referve  the  "thick  grounds  back, 
which  will  be  fetled  in  the  pan  or  kettle. 

If  you  would  have  it  to  drink  within  two  or  three 
months,  let  it  be  no  ftronger  than  to  bear  an  egg 
to  the  top  of  the  water.  If  you  would  have  in 
keep  fix  months,  or  longer,  before  you  drink  it,  let* 
it  bear  up  the  egg  the  breadth  of  two  pence  above 
the  water.  This  is  a  furer  way  to  proportion  your 

Honey 


t<59] 

Honey  then  by  meafure.  And  the  time  of  the  tryal 
of  the  ftrengtn  is,  when  you  incorporate  the  Ho¬ 
ney  and  water  together,  before  the  boiling  of  it. 

Another  fort  of  Meath. 

Take  thirty  fix  gallons  of  Fountain  water  (firft 
boiled,  &c.)  and  difiolve  twelve  gallons  of  Honey 
in  it  5  keep  them  boiling  an  hour  and  a  half  after 
they  begin  to  boil,  skimming  well  all  the  while. 
It  will  be  an  hour  upon  the  fire" before  it  boil.  When 
it  is  clear  and  enough  boiled,  pour  it  out  into 
wooden  veflels  to  cool.  When  you  are  ready  to 
tup  it,  have  four  gallons  of  Black-curratis,  bruife 
them  in  a  ftope  mortar,  that  they  may  the  more  ea- 
fily  part  with  their  juyee  to  the  liquor.  Put  them 
and  their  juyee  into  the  barrel,  and  pour  the  cool 
liquor  upon^^sfegm,  fo  as  the  velfel  be  quite  full. 
CoygMhebung  with  a  plate  of  Lead  lying  loole  on, 
r  1 1  a  tr- 1  IfonVo  r  k  t  n  g  of  the  liquor  may  lift"  it  up,  as 
it  fitedeth  to  call  out  the  filth.  And  foil  as  it  work- 
eth  over,  fill  it  up  with  frelh  liquor,  made  in  the 
fame  proportion  of  Honey  and  water.  A  month 
after  it  works  no  longer,  flop  up  the  bung  very 
dole. 

To  make  very  good  Metbeglin. 

Take  of  all  forts  of  herbs  that  you  think  are 
good  and  wholefom  ,  as  Balm,  Mint,  Fennel, 
Rofemary,  Angelica,  Wild-thyme,  Hylbp,  Agri¬ 
mony,  Burnet,  and  inch  other  as  you  may  like";  as 
alfo  Tome  Field  herbs But  you  mult  not  put  in  too 
many,  elpeciallv  Rolemary  or  any  Itrong  herb. 
Lefs  then  half  a  handful  will  ferve  of  every  fort. 
Boil  your  herbs,  and  ftrain  them  out,  and  let  the 

liquor 


r  7°  ] 

liquor  ftand  till  the  morrow.,  and  fettle ;  Then  take 
of  the  cleareft  of  the  liquor  two  gallons  and  a 
half  to  one  gallon  of  Honey  j  and  in  that  pro¬ 
portion  take  as  much  of  them  as  you  will  make, 
and  let  it  boil  an  hour,  and  in  the  boiling  fcum  it 
Very  clean.  Then  let  it :  a  cooling  as  you  do  bear, 
&  when  it  is  cold,  take  fome  very  good  Ale-barm, 
and  put  it  into  the  bottom  of  the  Tub  you  mean 
the  Metheglin  fhall  work  in,  which  pour  into  the 
tub  by  little  and  little,  as  they  do  Beer,  keeping 
back  the  thick  Ceding*  which  lieth  in  the  bottom  of 
the  velfels,  wherein  it  is  cooled.  And  when  all  is 
put  together,  cover  it  with  a  cloth,  and  let  it  work 
.very  near  three  days.  And  when  you  mean  to  put 
it  up  into  your  barrel  or  firkin,  which  you  muft  not 
drop  very  clofe  in  four  or  five  days,  but  let  it  have 
a  little  vent,  for  it  will  Work  5  and  when  it  is  clofe 
flopped,  you  muft  look  to  it  very  often,  and  have 
a  peg  in  the  top,  to  give  it  vent,  when  you  hear  it 
make  a  noife  (as  it  will  do)  or  elicit  will  break  the 
barrel.  You  may  alfo,  if  you  pleafe,  make  a  bag 
and  put  in  good  ftor'e  of  fliced  Ginger,  and  fome 
Cloves,  and  Cinnamon,  and  boil  it  in,  or  put  it 
into  the  barrel,  and  never  boil  it.  Both  ways  are 
good. 

If  you  will  make  ftnall  Metheglin,  you  may  put 
five  or  fix  gallons  of  water  to  one  of  Honey.  Put 
in  a  little  Cinnamon  and  Cloves,  and  boil  it  well. 
And  when  ft  is  cold,  put  it  up  in  bottles  very  dole 
flopped,  and  the  floppies  well  tied  on.  This  will 
not  keep  above  five  or  fix  weeks,  but  it  is  very  fine 
drink. 

Make  your  Metheglin  as  foon  as  ever  you  take 
your  Bees  ;  for  if  you  wafti  your  Combs  in  the  wa¬ 
ter  you  boil  your  herbs  in,  when  it  is  cold,  it  will 
fweeten  much.  But  you  muft  afterwards  drain  it 

through 


[7i] 

through  a  cloth  ,  or  elfe  there  will  be  much 
wax. 

To  make  Meath. 

If  you  will  have  it  to  keep  a  year  or  two ,  take 
fix  parts  of  water,  and  one  of  Honey ;  but  if  you 
will  have  it  to  keep  longer,  take  but  four  parts  of 
water  to  one  of  Honey.  Diffolve  the  Honey  very 
well  in  the  water,  then  boil  it  gently,  skimming  it 
all  the  while  as  the  fcum  rifeth,  till  no  more  fcurn 
rifeth.  Then  pour  it  out  of  the  Copper  into  a  fit 
velfel  or  veflels  to  cool.  Then  tun  it  up  in  a  ftrong 
and  fweet  Cask ,  and  let  it  Hand  in  ibme  place  , 
\vhere  there  is  fome  little  warmth :  (it  will  do  as 
Well  without  warmth,  but  be  longer  growing 
ripe.)  This  will  make  it  work.  At  firlt  a  coarl'e  foul 
matter  will  work  over  ;  to  which  purpofe  it  mult 
be  kept  always  full  with  frefh  liquor  of  the  lame., 
as  it  worketh  over.  When  it  begins  to  work  more 
gently,  and  that  which  rifeth  at  the  top,  is  no  more 
foul,  but  is  a  white  froth  :  then  fill  and  Hop  it  up 
clofe,  and  fet  it  in  a  cool  Cellar,  where  it  is  to  Hand 
continually. 

After  half  a  year  or  a  year,  you  may  draw  it  off 
from  the  Lees  into  a  clean  velfel,  or  let  it  remain 
untouched.  It  is  not  fit  to  be  drunk  forks  perfecti¬ 
on  till  the  fweetnefs  be  quite  worn  off,  yet  not  to 
be  lower,  but  vinous.  You  may  drink  it  at  meals 
inffead  of  Wine,  and  is  wholefomer  and  better 
then  Wine. 

To  fmall  Meath,  that  is  to  be  drunk  prefently, 
you  may  put  a  little  Ginger  to  give  it  life,  and 
work  it  with  a  little  barm.  If  the  Meath  work  not 
at  all,  it  will  neverthelefs  be  good,  and  paradven- 
ture  better  then  that  which  worketh  ;  but  it  will 

be 


{  7Z  ] 

be  longer  firft,  and  the  dregs  will  fall  down  to  the 
bottom.,  though  it  work  not. 

Small  Meath  of  eight  or  nine  parts  of  water 
to  ope  of  Honey;,  will  be  very  good  ,  though  it 
never  work,  but  be  batrerd  up  as  loon  as  it  is 
■cold  and  Hopped  clofe:  aqd  after  two  or  three 
months  drunk  from  the  barrel  without  bottelling. 
This  is  good  for  Meals. 

To  7 ?iake  white  Me 

Take  to  every  three  gallons  of  water,  one  gal¬ 
lon  of  Honey,  and  let  the  water  over  the  lire,  and 
Jet  the  Honey  melt,  before  the  water  be  too  hot  ; 
then  put  in  anew  laid  egg,  and  feel  with  your 
hand  ;  if  it  comes  hall  way  the  water,  it  is  ftrong 
enough.-  Then  pur  into  it  thole  herbs;  Thyme, 
Sweet-marjoram,  Winter-lavory,Swcet-bryar,  6c 
Boy-leaveSjin  all  a  good  great  handful ;  which  is  a 
proportion  for  ten  gallons  :  then  with  a  quick  lire 
noil  it  very  fall  half  an  hour,  and  no  longer ;  and 
then  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  let  it  cool  in  two 
or  three  wooden  velfels  ;  and  let  it  Hand  without 
flirting  twenty  four  hours.  Then  loftly  drain  it 
out,  leaving  all  the  dregs  behind.  Put  the  clear 
into  your  vetlel,  and  if  you  like  any  Spice,  take 
Ginger,  Nutmegs,  Cinnamon,  Mace,  and  Cloves, 
and  bruile  them  a  little,  and  put  them  in  a  bag,  and. 
let  them  hang  in  your  velfel.  Before  you  put  your 
Meath  into  the  velfel,  try  if  it  will  bear  an  egg  as 
broad  as  a  penny  ;  if  it  do,  then  it  is  very  well ; 
and  if  it  be  made  with  the  bell  \vhiteHouey,it  nfu- 
ally  is  juft  io.  But  if  it  fliould  prove  toftrong,  that 
•it  bears  the  egg  broader ;  then  boil  a  little  more 
Honey  and  water  very  Ana  11,  'and  pur  to  ir,  when 
it  is  cold  .-  and  then  put  it  into  the  velfel.  It  is  belt 

to 


[73  1 

robe  made  at  Michaelmas  ?  and  not  drunk  of  till 
Lent. 

To  make  /mail  white  Meath „ 

Take  of  the  beft  white  Honey  fix  quarts ,  of 
Spring- water  lixteen  gallons  ;  let  it  on  a  gentle  fire 
at  firff,  till  it  is  meltect,  and  clean  skimmed :  then 
make  it  boil  apace,  until  the  third  part  be  confu- 
med.  Then  take  it  from  the  lire,  and  put  it  into  a 
cooler,  and  when  it  is  cold ,  tun  it  up ,  and  let  it 
Hand  eight  months,  before  you  drink  it.  When 
you  take  it  from  the  fire,flice  in  three  Orris-roots, 
and  let  it  remain  in  the  liquor  when  you  tun  it 

lip. 

A  Receipt  to  make  Metheglin, 

Take  four  gallons  of  water,  two  quarts  of  Ho¬ 
ney,  two  ounces  of  Ginger,  one  ounce  of  Nut¬ 
megs,  a  cood  handful  of  Rofemary  tops,  and  as 
much  of  teay-leaves,  two  ounces  of  dried  Orange- 
peel.  Boil  all  thele  till  it  be  fo  ftrong  as  will  bear 
an  egg,  and  not  link  ;  when  it  is  milk- warm,  work 
it  up  with  barm  ,  during  twenty  four  hours,  and 
then  barrel  it  up.  And  after  three  months  you  may 
bottle  it  up  at  your  pleafure. 

As  you  delire  a  greater  quantity  of  the  drink,you 
mult  augment  the  ingredients,  according  to  the 
proportions  above  recited. 

To  make  Mcthcglin. 

Take  four  gallons  of  water  and  one  of  Honey  ; 
boil  and  skim  it :  then  put  into  it  Liverwort,Harrs- 
tongue.  Wild-carrot,  and  Yarrow,  a  little  Rote- 

mary' 


[7+  ] 

mary  and  Bays,  one  Parfley-roor,  and  a  Fennel- 
root  ;  let  them  boil  an  hour  all  together.  You  may* 
if  you  pleafe,  hang  a  little  bag  of  Spice  in  it.  When 
it  is  coldput  a  little  barm  to  it,  and  let  it  work  like 
Beer.  The  roots  mult  be  fcraped,  and  the  pith  ta¬ 
ken  out. 

Meath  from  the  Mufcovian  Ambajfadou  rs 
Steward. 

Take  three  times  as  much  water  as  Honey,  then 
let  the  tubs  that  the  Honey  mult  be  wrought  in,  be 
cleanl'ed  very  clean  with  icalding  water,  fo  that  it 
may  not  prove  fowre:  Alfo  when  you  mix  them  to¬ 
gether,  take  half  warm  water,  and  half  cold,  and 
iqueeze  them  well  together.  Afterwards  when  you 
think  the  Honey  is  well  melted,  then  let  it  run 
through  a  fieve ;  and  fee  your  kettle  of  Copper  or 
Iron  (but  Copper  is  better  than  Iron)  be  very 
clean ;  then  put  in  your  fpice,  as  Nutmegs,  Gin¬ 
ger,  Cloves,  Cardamom,  Annifeeds,  Orange-peels 
put  thefe  according  to  the  quantity  you  make, 
and  let  them  all  be  bruifed,  except  the  Orange- 
peel,  which  leave  whole.  The  Meath  muft  boil  an 
hour  by  the  Clock,  after  put  it  into  tubs  to  coolj, 
&  when  it  is  cold,  take  three  or  four  dices  of  white 
bread  5  toaft  them  very  hard,  and  fpread  very  good 
yeaft  on  both  fides  of  the  toafts  :  then  put  them  into 
the  tubs.  If  it  be  warm  weather,  let  the  tubs  be 
uncovered  s  but  if  it  be  cold,  cover  them.  This 
being  done,  you  will  find  it  worked  enough  by  the 
black  that  cometh  up  bv  the  fides  of  the  tubs  s  then 
take  a  fieve  and  take  off  the  yeaft  and  bread.  After¬ 
wards  draw  it  off  at  a  tap  in  the  tub  into  the  cask 
vou  intend  to  keep  it  in :  then  take  a  quantity  of 
cp  ice  as  before,  well  bruifed,  and  put  it  into  a  bag 


[  7f  ] 

and  make  it  faft  at  the  bung  with  a  firing,  and  if 
it  begins  to  work,  after  it  is  in  tile  cask,  befure  to 
give  it  vent,  or  eife  you  will  lole  all. 

To  make  Meath* 

-^To  every  quart  of  Honey  put  four  quarts  of 
Spring-water  ;  temper  the  Honey  in  the  water,be- 
ing  a  little  warmed  :  then  put  it  on  the  fire  again, 
withFenneljRofemary,Thyme,Agrimony,Parfley 
or  the  like.  Let  them  boil  half  an  hour,  and  up¬ 
wards  $  and  as  it  boileth,  fcum  the  froth  :  Then 
rake  it  off,  and  ftrain  it,  and  let  it  cool  as  you  do 
your  wort.Then  put  a  little  barm  into  it,then  take 
off  the  froth  again,  and  ftir  it  well  together.  Then 
take  two  quarts  of  Ale,  boded  with  Cloves,Mace, 
Cinnamon,  Ginger,  and  Licorice  j  and  put  it  to  the 
Meath  and  tun  it  up. 

A  Receipt  to  make  white  Meath. 

TakeRofemary,Thyme,Sweet-bryar,Peny-roy- 
al.  Bays,  Water-creffes,  Agrimony,  Marfhmallow- 
leaves  and  flowers,Liverwort,  Maiden-hair,Beto- 
ny.  Eye-bright,  Scabious,  the  bark  of  an  Afh-tree, 
young  Eringo-roots,  Wild  Angelica,  Ribwort,Sa- 
nicle,  Roman- wormwood ,  Tamarisk,  Mother- 
thyme,  Saxifrage,  Philipendula,  of  each  of  thefe 
herbs  a  like  proportion  ;  or  of  as  many  as  you 
pleafe  to  put  in.  You  muft  put  in  all  but  four  hand¬ 
fuls  of  herbs,  which  you  muft  fteep  a  night  and  a 
day  in  a  little  bowl  of  water,  being  clofe  covered- 
The  next  day  take  another  frefhquantity  of  water, 
and  boil  the  fame  herbs  in  it  till  the  colour  be  very 
high  :  Then  take  another  quantity  of  water,  ana 
boil  the  fame  herbs  in  it,  until  it  look  green  i  and 


l7«J 

fb  let  them  boil  three  or  four  times  in  feveral  wa¬ 
ters.,  as  long  as  the  liquor  lpoketh  any  thing  green. 
Then  let  it  ftand  with  theie  herbs  in  it  a  day  and  a 
night.  Remember  the  laft  water  you  boil  it  in,  ro 
this  proportion  of  herbs,  muftbe  eighteen  gallons. 
And  when  it  hath  flood  a  day  &  a  night  with  theie 
herbs  in  it  after  rhe  laft  boiling,  then  ftrain  the  li¬ 
quor  from  the  herbs,  and  put  as  much  of  the  fineft 
and  beft  Honey  into  the  liquor,  as  will  bear  an  egg, 
you  muft  work  the  Honey  and  liquor  together  a 
whole  day,  until  the  Honey  be  confumed  5  then  let 
it  ftand  one  whole  night ;  then  let  it  be  well  la¬ 
boured  again,  and  fet  it  a  clearing  ;  and  fo  boil- it 
again  with  the  whites  of  fix  new  laid  eggs  with  the 
fhells  ;  skim  it  very  clean,  and  let  it  fraud  a  day  a 
cooling ;  then  put  it  into  a  barrel,  and  take  Cloves, 
Mace,  Cinnamon,  and  Nutmegs,  as  much  as  will 
plcaf'e  your  tafte,  and  beat  them  all  together,  and 
put  them  in  a  linen  bag,  and  hang  it  with  a  thred  in¬ 
to  the  barrel.  Then  take  the  whites  of  two  or  three 
new  laid  eggs,  a  fpoonful  of  barm,  a  fpoonful  of 
Wheat-flower,  and  beat  them  all  together,  and  put 
it  into  your  liquor  in  the  barrel,  ana  let  it  work  be¬ 
fore  you  ftop  it ;  then  afterwards  flop  it  well,  and 
fet  it  in'  a  cold  place  ;  and  when  it  hath  been  fetled 
fome  fix  weeks,  draw  it  into  bottles,  and  ftop  it 
very  dole,  and  drink  not  of  it  in  a  month  after. 

To  make  Metheglin. 

Take  eight  gallons  of  water,  fet  it  over  a  clear 
fire  in  a  kettle,  and  when  it  is  warm,  put  to  it  fix-; 
tcen  pounds  of  very  good  Honey,  and  ftir  it  well 
together :  take  off  the  feum  ,  and  put  two  large 
Nutmegs  cut  in  quarters,  and  lo  let  it  boil  at  leaft 
an  hqur Then  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  put  to  it  two 


[77  ] 

good  handfuls  of  grinded  Mault,  and  With  a  white 
ftaff  keep  beating  it  together  till  it  be  almoft  cold  s 
then  ftrain  it  through  a  hair  fieve  into  a  tub,  and 
put  to  it  a  wine  pint  of  Ale-yeaft,  and  ftir  it  very 
well  together  ;  and  when  it  is  cold,you  may  if  you 
pleafe,tun  it  up  prefently  into  a  velfel  fit  for  it5  or 
dfe  let  it  ftand  and  work  a  day,  and  when  it  hath 
done  working  in  your  veffel,  ftop  it  up  very  dole. 
It  will  be  three  weeks  or  a  month  before  it  be  rea¬ 
dy  to  drink. 

To  make  Honey -drink? 

To  two  quarts  of  Water  take  one  pound  ofHo- 
ney.  When  it  boileth,  skim  rt  dean  as  long  as  any 
fcum  arifeth  ;  boil  it  a  pretty  while  :  then  take  it 
off  the  fire,  and  put  it  in  an  earthen  pot,  and  let  it 
ftand  till  the  next  day  .*  then  put  it  into  dean  bot¬ 
tles,  that  are  throughly  dry,  rinfing  firft  every  bot¬ 
tle  with  a  little  of  the  liquor  :  fill  them  not  too  full, 
and  put  into  every  bottle  four  or  five  Cloves,  and 
four  or  five  flices  of  Ginger :  andftop  it  very  clofe* 
and  fet  it  in  land ;  and  within  ten  or  twelve  days  it 
Will  be  ready  to  drink. 

Some,  when  they  take  their  Bees,  put  the  Ho- 
ney-combs  into  fair  water,and  xnake  it  fo  ftrong  of 
the  Honey  that  it  will  bear  an  egg ;  and  then  boil 
it  with  fome  Spice,  and  put  it  into  a  barrel :  but  I 
think  it  not  fo  good,  as  that  which  is  made  of  pure 
Honey. 

The  Earl  of  Denbigh'*  Metheglin. 

Take  twenty  gallons  of  Spring-water,  boil  it  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  al¬ 
moft  cold  ;  then  beat  in  fo  much  Honey  as  will 

F  .  make 


[  73  ] 

make  it  fo  ftrong  as  to  bear  an  egg,  fo  that  on  the 
top  you  may  fee  the  breadth  of  a  Hafle-nut  fwim- 
ming  above :  The  next  day  boil  it  up  with  fix  fmall 
handfuls  of  Rofcmary,  a  pound  and  half  of  Ginger, 
being  lcraped  and  bruifed ;  then  take  the  whites 
of  twenty  eggs,  fhells  and  all }  beat  them  very 
well,  ana  put  them  in  to  clarifie  it  5  skim  it  very 
clean,  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  ftrain  it :  but ' 
put  the  Rofcmary  and  Ginger  in  again  j  then  let 
it  remain  till  it  bealmoft  cold  :  then  tun  it  up,  and 
take  fome  new  Ale-yeaft,  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
a  fpoonful  of  flour,  and  beat  them  well  together, 
and  put  them  into  the  barrel}  when  it  hath  wrought 
very  well,  flop  it  very  clofe  for  three  weeks  or  a 
month  :  then  bottle  it,  and  a  week  after  you  may 
drink  it. 

To  make  Meath . 

Take  to  every  gallon  of  water.a  quart  of  Honey, 
and  fet  it  over  axlear  fire,  and  when  it  is  ready  to 
boil,  skim  it  very  clear.  Then  take  two  handfuls 
of  Sweet-marjoram,  as  much  Rolemary,  and  as 
much  Balm  ;  and  two  handfuls  of  Fennel-roots, 
as  much  of  Parflcy-roots,  and  as  many  Afpara- 
gus-roots  :  flice  them  in  the  middle,  and  takeout 
the  pith,  wafh  and  ferapethem  very  cleamand  put 
them  with  your  herbs  into  your  liquor.  Then  take 
two  ounces  of  Ginger,  one  ounce  of  Nutmegs, 
half  an  ounce  of  Mace,  bruife  them  and  put  them 
in,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  be  fo  ftrong  that  it  will 
bear  an  egg :  then  let  it  cool}  and  being  cold,  put 
in  three  or  four  l'poonfuls  of  new  Ale-yeaft :  and  fo 
skim  it  well,  and  put  it  into  a  Rundlet,  and  it  will 
Work  like  Ale :  and  having  done  working,  flop  it 
up  clofe,  as  you  do  new  Beer,  and  lay  fait  upon  it. 


[79l 

To  make  'Mctheglin . 

Take  Four  gallons  of  running-water,  and  boil  it 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  5  and  put  it  into  an  earthen 
vefTel,and  let  it  ftand  all  night.  The, next  day  take 
only  the  water,and  leave  the  fetling  at  the  bottom : 
fo  put  the  Honey  in  a  thin  bag,  and  work  it  in-die 
Water,tili  all  the  Honey  is  diifolved.  Take  .to  four 
gallons  of  water  one  of  Honey,  then  pur  m  an  egg, 
if  it  be  ftrong  enough  of  the  Honey,  the  egg  will 
part  of  it  appear  on  the  top  of  the';  liquor  :  if  it 
donor,  put  more  Honey  to  it,  till  it  do.  Then  take 
out  the  egg,  and  let  the  liquor  ftand  till  next  morn¬ 
ing.  Then  take  two  ounces  of  Ginger,  and  dice  it 
and  pare  it ;  Some  Rofemary  wafhed  and  ftrippcd 
from  the  ftalk ;  dry  lr  very  well.  The  next  day  put 
the  Rolemarv  and  Gingeri  into, the  drink,  and  fo 
let  it  on  the  fire  : .  when  it  is  almoft  ready  to  boil, 
take  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten  with  the 
fhtells,  and  put  all  into  the  liquor,  and  ftir  it  about, 
and  skim  it  wclhtill  it  be  clear.  Be  fure  you  skim 
not  off  the  Rofemary  and  Ginger,  then  take  it  off 
the  fire,  and  let  it  run  through  a  hair  fieve  :  and 
when  you  have  ftrained  it,  pick  out  the  Rofemary 
and  Ginger  out  of  the  ftrainer,  and  put  it  into  the 
drink,  and  throw  away  the  egg-fhells,  and  fo  let  it 
ftand  all  night.  The  next  day  tun  it  up  in  a  barrel : 
be  fure  the  barrel  be  not  too  big ;  then  take  a  lit- 
tie  flour,  and  a  little  bran,  and  the  white  of  an  egg, 

,  and  beat  them  well  together,and  put  them  into  tlie 
barrel  on  the  top  of  the  Metheglin,  after  it  is  tun¬ 
ned  up,  and  fo  let  it  ftand  till  it  hath  done  work^ 
ing ;  then  ftop  it  up  as  clofe  as  is  poflible  :  and  fo 
let  it  ftand  fix  or  feven  weeks  .*  then  draw  it  ouc 
and  bottle  it.  You  muff  ty  down  the  Corks,  and 

F  %  fts 


* 


[  8°  ] 

fet  the  bottles  in  land  five  or  fix  weeks.,  and  then 
drink  it. 

Another  Meath. 

Take  twenty  gallons  of  fair  Spring-water,  boil 
it  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  let  it  Hand  till  the  next 
day.  Then  beat  into  it  fo  much  Honey  as  will 
make  it  fo  ftrong  as  to  bear  an  egg  the  breadth  of  a 
two-pence  above  the  water.  The  next  day  boil  it 
up  with  fix  Irnall  handfuls  of  Rofemary,  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  Ginger,  (  being  fcraped  and  bruifed  ) 
and  the  whites  of  twenty  eggs,together  with  their 
fliells  beaten  together,  and  well  mingled  with  the 
liquor.  Clarifies  and  skim  it  very  clean,  ftill  as  the 
feum  rifeth,  leaving  the  Ginger  and  Rofemary  in 
it.  Let  it  ftand  till  the  next  day,then  tun  it  upland 
take  foine  new  Ale-yeaft,  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
a  lpoonful  of  flour  ;  beat  all  thefe  together,  and 
put  it  on  the  top  of  the  barrel,  when  the  barrel  is 
Full.  Let  it  work,  and  when  it  hath  done  working, 
flop  it  up  clofe  for  three  weeks  or  a  month.  Then 
you  may  bottle  it,  and  a  few  days  after  you  may 
drink  it. 

Another . 

Take  three  gallons  of  water,  and  boil  in  it  a 
handful  of  Rofemary  (or  rather  the  flowers),Cow- 
flips,Sage-flowers,Agrimony,BetonyjandThymc, 
ana  one  handful.  When  it  hath  taken  the  ftrength  of 
the  herbs,  ftrain  it  rhrougha  hair  fieve,  and  let  it 
cool  twenty  hours.  Then  to  three  gallons  of  the 
clear  part  of  this  decodtion,  put  one  gallon  of  Ho¬ 
ney,  and  mingle  it  very  well  with  your  hand,  till 
it  bear  an  egg  the  breadth  of  a  groat.  Then  boil  it 


[  8*  ] 

and  skim  it  as  long  as  any  fcum  will  rife.  After¬ 
wards  let  it  cool  four  and  twenty  hours.  'Then  put 
to  it  a  fmall  quantity  of  Ale-barm,  and  skim  tire 
thin  barm  that  doth  rife  on  it,  morning  and  even¬ 
ing,  with  a  feather,  during  four  days.  And  fo  put 
it  up  into  your  veflel,  and  hang  in  it  a  thin  linen 
bag  with  two  ounces  ofgood  whiteGinger  bruiled 
therein  :■  and  ftop  it  up  clofe  for  a  quarter  of  a 
year.  Then  you  may  drink  it. 

Another. 

Take  a  quart  of  Honey  to  a  gallon  of  water ;  fet 
the  Kettle  over  the  fire,  and  ftir  it  now  and  then, 
that  the  Honey  may  melt :  let  it  boil  an  hour  9 
you  muft  boil  in  it  a  fprig  or  two  of  Winter-fa  vo- 
ry,  as  much  of  Sweet-marjoram  j  put  it  into  tubs 
ready  fcalded,  till  the  next  day  towards  evening. 
Then  tun  it  up  into  your  veflel,let  it  work  for  three 
days  j  after  which  hang  a  bag  in  the  barrel  with 
wnat  quantity  of  Mace  and  diced  Nutmeg  you 
pleafe.  To  make  it  ftronger  than  this,  'tis  but  ad¬ 
ding  more  Honey,  to  make  it  bear  an  egg  the 
breadth  of  a  fix-pence,  orfomething  more.  You 
may  bottle  it  out  after  a  month,  when  you  pleafe. 
This  is  the  way  which  is  ufed  in  Sujjex ,  by  thofe 
Who  are  accounted  to  make  it  bcft. 

Another  Receipt. 

Take  to  every  gallon  of  Fountain-water  a  good 
quart  of  Honey.  Set  the  water  on  the  fire,  till  it 
be  pretty  warm  ;  then  take  it  off,  and  put  in  your 
Honey,  and  ftir  it  till  it  be  difl'olved.  1  hen  put  in¬ 
to  every  three  gallons,two  handfuls  of  Thyme,two 
good  handfuls  of  Strawberry-leaves,  one  handful 
•  F  3  of 


[  8*  1 

of  Organ,  one  handful  of  Fennel-roots,  the  heart 
being  taken  out,  and  one  handful  .ofparfley-roots, 
the  heart  taken  out.  But  as  for  the  herbs,  it  muft  be 
according  to  the  ooiiftitution  of  them,  for  whom 
the  Mead  is  intended.  Then  let  the  hprbsin  it  on 
the  fire,  to  boil  for  half  an  hour,  ftill  skimming  it 
as  the  1'cum  rifeth  ,  it  mult  boil  but  half  an  hour, 
then  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  prelently  ftrain  it  from 
the  herbs,  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  fully  cold :  then 
pour  it  foftly  off  the  bottom,  and  put  it  in  a  veffel 
ht  for  it,  and  put  a  fmall  quantity  of  barm  in  it, 
and  mingle  it  with  it,  and  when  it  hath  wrought 
up,  which  will  be  in  three  or  four  days,  skim  off 
that  barm,  and  fet  on  freih :  but  the  fecond  barm 
muft  not  be  mingled  with  the  Meath,  but  only 
poured  on  the  top  of  it.  Take  an  ounce  of  Nut¬ 
megs  fliced ,  one  ounce  of  Ginger  diced ,  one 
ounce  of  Cinnamon  cut  in  pieces,  and  boil  them  a 
pretty  while  in  a  quart  of  White-wine  or  Sack: 
when  this  is  very  cold,  ftrain  it,  and  put  the  Spices 
in  a  Canvas-bag  to  hang  in  your  Meath,  and  pour 
in  the  Wine  it  was  boiled  in. 

This  Meath  will  be  drinkable,  when  it  is  a  fort¬ 
night  or  three  weeks  old. 

To  make  MethcgHn  that  looks  like  White-toinc . 

Take  to  twelve  gallons  of  water,  a  handful  of 
each  of  thefe  herbs  s  Parfley,  Eglantine,  Rofe- 
mary.  Strawberry-leaves,  Wild-thyme,  Balm,Li- 
ver-worr,  Betony, Scabious  ,  when  the  water  be¬ 
gins  to  boil,  caft  in  the  herbs ;  let  them  boil  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  5  then  ftrain  out  the  herbs,  and 
when  it  is  altnoft  cold,  then  put  in  as  much  of  the 
beft  Honey  you  can  get,  as  will  bear  an  egg  to  the 
breadth  of  two-pence }  that  is,  till  you  can  fee  no 

more  • 


[  »3  ] 

more  of  the  egg  above  the  water  then  a  two-pence 
will  cover  :  Lave  it  and  ftir  it  till  you  fee  ail  the 
Honey  be  melted  j  then  boil  it  well  half  an  hour, 
at  the  leaft  j  skim  it  well,  and  put  in  the  whites  of 
fix  eggs  beaten,  to  clarifie  it :  Then  ftrain  it  into 
fotne  wooden  veflels,  and  when  it  is  almoft  cold, 
put  home  Ale-barm  into  it :  and  when  it  worketh 
well,  tun  it  into  fome  well-feafoned  ycflel,  where 
neither  Ale  nor  Beer  hath  been,  for  marring  the 
colpur  of  it.  When  it  hath  done  working,  it  you 
like  ir,  take  a  quantity  of  Cloves,  Nutmegs,Mace, 
Cinnamon,  Ginger,  or  any  of  thefc  that  you  like 
belt,  and  bruife  them,  and  put  them  in  a  boulter- 
bag,  and  hang  it  in  the  veffel.  Put  not  too  much  of 
the  Spice,  becaufe  many  do  not  like  the  tafte  of 
much  Spice.  If  you  make  it  at  Michaelmas  ,you  may 
tap  it  at  Chriftmas  j  but  if  you  keep  it  longer  it 
Will  be  the  better.  It  will  look  pure,  and  drink 
with  as  much  fpirit  as  can  be,  and  very  pleafant. 

■  To  make  white  Metheglin. 

Take  Sweet-marjoram,  Sweet-bryar-buds, Vio¬ 
let-leaves,  Strawberry-leaves,of  each  one  handful, 
and  a  good  handful  of  Violet-flowers  ( the  double 
ones  are  the  beft  )  Broad-thyme,  Borage,  Agrimo¬ 
ny,  of  each  half  a  handful,  and  two  or  three  bran¬ 
ches  of  Rofemary,  the  feeds  of  Carvi,  Coriander, 
and  Fennel,  of  each  two  fpoonfuls,  and  three  or 
four  blades  of  large  Mace.  Boil  all  thefc  in  eight 
gallons  of  running- water ,  three  quarters  of  an 
hour.  Then  ftrain  it,  and  when  it  is  but  blood- 
warm,  put  in  as  much  of  the  beft  Honey  as  will 
make  the  liquor  bear  an  egg  the  breadth  of  a  fix- 
peace  above  the  water.  Then  boil  it  again  as  long 
as  any  feum  will  rife.  Then  fct  it  abroad  a  cooling, 

F  4  and 


t  ] 

and  when  it  is  almoft  cold,  put  in  half  a  pint  of 
good  Ale-barm  ;  and  when  it  hath  wrought,  till 
you  perceive  the  barm  to  fall,  then  tun  it, and  let  it 
work  in  the  barrel,  till  the  barm  leaveth  riling,  fil¬ 
ling  it  up  every  day  with  fome  of  the  fame  liquor. 
When  you  ftop  it  up,put  in  a  bag  with  one  Nutmeg 
fliced,  a  little  whole  Cloves  and  Mace,  a  ftick  of 
Cinnamon  broken  in  pieces,  and  a  grain  of  good 
Musk.  You  may  make  this  a  little  before  Michael- 
mas ,  and  it  will  be  fit  to  drink  at  Lent. 

This  is  Sir  Edward  Bainton’s  Receipt,  which  my 
Lord  of  Portland  (who  gave  it  me )  faith,  was  \ 
the  belt  he  ever  drank. 

To  make  a  fmall  Metheglin. 

Take  four  gallons  of  water,  and  fet  it  over  the 
fire,  put  into  it,  when  it  is  W’arm,  eight  pounds  of 
Honey }  as  the  fcum  rifeth,  take  it  clean  off.  When 
it  is  clear,  put  into  it  three  Nutmegs  quartered, 
three  or  four  races  of  Ginger  fliced ;  then  let  all  boil 
a  whole  hour :  then  take  it  off  the  fire/and  put  to  it 
two  handfuls  of  ground  Mault  $  ftir  it  about  with  a 
round  ftick,till  it  be  as  cold  as  wort,when  you  put 
yeaft  to  it.  Then  ftrain  it  out  into  a  pot  or  tub,that 
hath  a  fpiggot  and  faucet,and  put  to  it  a  pint  of  very 
good  Aie-yeaft ;  fo  let  it  Work  for  two  days  :  then 
cover  it  clofe  for  about  4  or  y  days,  and  fo  draw  it 
out  into  bottles.  It  will  be  ?eady  to  drink  within 
three  weeks. 


To  make  Meath. 

Take  to  fix  quarts  of  water,  a  quart  of  the  befit 
Honey,  and  put  it  on  the  fire,  and  ftir  it  till  the 
Honey  is  melted,  and  boil  it  well  as  long  as  any 

fcuia 


[  8j  ] 

fcum  rifech ;  and  now  and  then  put  in  a  little  cold 
water,  for  this  will  make  the  fcum  rife :  keep  your 
kettle  up  as  full  as  you  did  put  it  on;  when  it  is 
boiled  enough,  about  half  an  hour  before  you  take 
it  off,then  take  a  quantity  of  Ginger  fliced  and  well 
fcraped  firft,and  a  good  quantity  of  Rofemary,  and 
boil  both  together.  Of  the  Rofemary  and  Ginger 
you  may  put  in  more  or  lefs,  for  to  pleafe  your 
tafte :  And  when  you  take  it  off  the  fire,  ftrain  it 
into  your  veflel,  either  a  weli-feafoned  tub,  or  a 
great  cream  pot,  and  the  next  morning  when  it  is 
cold,  pour  off' foftly  the  top  from  the  ietlings  into 
another  veflel ;  and  then  put  fome  little  quantity 
of  the  belt  Ale-barm  to  it,  and  cover  it  with  a  thin 
cloth  over  it,  if  it  be  in  Summer ;  but  in  the  Win¬ 
ter  it  will  be  longer  a  ripening,  and  therefore  muff 
be  the  warmer  covered  in  a  clofe  place,  and  when 
you  go  to  bottle  it,  take  with  a  Feather  all  the 
barm  off,  and  put  it  into  your  bottles,  and  flop  it 
up  clofe. In  ten  days  you  may  drink  it.  If  you  think 
fix  quarts  of  water  be  too  much, and  would  have  it 
ftronger,  then  put  in  a  greater  quantity  of  Honey. 

Metheglin  or  Sweet  Dr  in  of  my  Lady  Stuart. 

Take  as  much  water  as  will  fill  your  firkin ;  of 
Rofemary,  Bays,  Sweet-bryar,  Broad-thyme, 
Sweet-marjoram,  of  each  a  handful ;  fet  it  over  the 
fire,  untill  the  herbs  have  a  little  coloured  the  wa¬ 
ter  ;  then  take  it  off,  and  when  it  is  cold,  put  in  as 
much  Honey,  till  it  will  bear  an  egg :  then  lave  it 
three  days  morning  and  evening.  After  that  boil  it 
again,  aud  skim  it  very  clean,  and  in  the  boiling 
clarifie  it  with  the  whites  of  fix  eggs,  fhells  and 
all,  well  beaten  together.Thcn  take"  it  off,  &  put  it 
to  cool,  &  when  it  is  cold,  put  it  into  your  veflel. 


[86] 

and  put  to  it  three  fpoonfnls  of  yeaft,  flop  it  dofca 
and  keep  it  till  it  be  at  leaft  three  months  old. 

A  Metheglin  for  the  Collicl^  and  Stone ,  of  the  fame 
Lady. 

Take  one  gallon  of  Honey  to  feven  gallons  of 
water  ;  boil  it  together  ,  and  skim  it  well  j  then 
take  Pellitory  of  the  Wall,  Saxifrage,  Betony, 
Parfley,  Groundfel,  of  each  a  handful,  of  the  feeds 
of  Parfley,  of  Nettles,  Fennel  and  Caraway-feeds, 
Annifeeds  and  Grumel-feeds,  of  each  two  ounces. 
The  Poors  of  Parfley,  of  Alexander,  of  Fennel  and 
Mallows,  of  each  two  ounces,  being  fmallcut} 
let  all  boil,  till  near  three  gallons  of  the  liquor  is 
wafted  :  then  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  let  it  ftand 
till  it  be  cold  ,  then  deanfe  it  from  the  drugs,  and 
let  it  be  put  into  a  clean  veflel  well  flopped,  taking. 
four.Nutmegs,  one  ounce  and  half  of  Ginger,  half 
an  ounce  of  Cinnamon,  twelve  Cloves  5  cut  all 
thefefmall,  and  hang  them  in  a  bag  into  the  veflel. 
When  you  flop  it  up.  When  it  is  a  fortnight  old  , 
you  may  begin  to  drink  of  it,  every  morning  a 
good  draught. 

A  Receipt  for  Methcglin  of  my  Lady  Winde- 
banke. 

Take  four  gallons  of  water,  add  to  it  thefe 
Herbs  and  Spices  following,  Pellitory  of  thcWall, 
Sage,  Thyme,  of  each  a  quarter  of  a  handful,  as 
much  Clove-gilly-flowers,  with  half  as  much  Bor- 
rage,  and  Buglofs-flowcrs,  a  little  Hyfop,  five  or 
fix  Eringo-roots,  3  or4Parfley-roots;one  Fennel- 
root,  the  pith  taken  out,a  few  red-nctt!e-roots,and 
a  little  harts- tongue.Boil  thefe  roots  and  herbs  half 


r  s?  ] 

an  hour  5  then  take  out  the  roots  and  hcrb$,andput 
in  the  Spices  grofly  beaten  in  a  Canvas-bag, 
Cloves,  Mace,  of  each  half  an  ounce,  and  as 
much  Cinnamon  5  of  Nutmeg  an  ounce,  with  two 
ounces  of  Ginger,  and  a  gallon  of  Honey :  boil 
all  thefe  together  half  an  hour  longer,  but  do  not 
skim  it  at  all :  let  it  boil  in,  and  fet  it  a  cooling  af- 
ter  you  have  taken  it  off  the  fire.  When  it  is  cold, 
put  fix  fpoonfuls  of  barm  to  it,  and  let  it  work 
twelve  hours  at  leaf!,  then  tun  it,  and  put  a  little 
Limon-peel  into  it }  and  then  you  may  bottle  it,  if 
you  pleafe. 

Another  of  the  fame  Lady. 

To  four  gallons  of  water  put  one  gallon  of  Ho¬ 
ney  j  warm  the  water  lukewarm  before  you  put  in 
your  Honey  3  when  it  is  diffolved,  fet  it  over  the 
fire,  and  let  it  boil  half  an  hour  with  thefe  Spices 
grofly  beaten  and  put  in  a  Canvas-bag  3  namely, 
half  an  ounce  of  Ginger,  two  Nutmegs,  a  few 
Cloves  and  a  little  Mace  5  and  in  the  boiling  put 
in  a  quart  of  cold  water  to  raife  the  feum  ,  which 
you  muft  take  clean  off  in  the  boiling.  If  you  love 
herbs,  put  in  a  little  bundle  of  Roiemary,  Bays, 
Sweet-marjoram,  and  Eglantine.  Let  it  ftand  till 
it  is  cold,  then  put  into  it  half  a  pint  of  Ale-barm, 
and  let  it  work  twelve  hours  ythen  tun  it,  but  take 
out  the  bundle  of  herbs  firft. 

To  make  Metbcglin. 

Take  to  every  gallon  of  Honey  three  gallons  of 
water,  and  put  them  together,  and  fet  them  over 
fo  gentle  a  fire,  as  you  might  endure  to  break  it  in 
the  water  with  your  hand.  When  ^he  Honey  is  all 

melted. 


[88] 

melted ,  put  in  an  egg,  and  let  it  fall  gently  to  the 
bottom ;  and  if  your  egg  rile  up  again  to  the  top 
of  your  liquor,  then  it  is  ftrong  enough  of  the  Ho¬ 
ney.  But  it  it  lie  at  the  bottom,  you  muft  put  in 
more  Honey,  andftirit,  till  it  doth  rife.  If  your 
Honey  be  very  good ,  it  will  bear  half  a  gallon 
of  water  rfiOre  to  a  gallon  of  Honey.  Then  take 
Sweet-bryar,  Bays,  Roiemary,  Thyme,  Marjo¬ 
ram,  Savory,  of  each  a  good  handful ,  which  you 
muft  tye  up  all  together  in  a  bundle.  This  propor¬ 
tion  of  herbs  will  be  fuflicient  for  twelve  gallons 
of  Metheglin  5  and  according  to  the  quantity  of 
Metheglin  you  make,  you  muft  add  or  diminifh 
your  Aerbs.  When  you  have  put  thefe  things  to¬ 
gether,  fet  it  over  a  quick  fire,  and  let  it  boil  as 
raft  as  you  can  for  half  an  hour,  or  better,  skim¬ 
ming  of  it  very  clean,  and  clarifying  it  with  the 
whites  of  two  or  three  eggs.  Then  take  it  from  the 
fire,  and  put  it  into  fome  clean  veffelor  other,  and 
let  it  ftand  till  the  next  morning  :  Then  pour  the 
clear  from  the  drags,  and  tun  it  up,  putting  in  a 
littlebagof  fuchfpiceas  you  like,  whereof  Gin¬ 
ger  muft  be  the  moft.  After  it  hath  ftood  three  or 
lour  days,  you  may  put  in  two  or  three  fpoonfuls 
of  good  Ale-yeaft  it  Will  make  it  the  fooner  rea¬ 
dy  to  drink.  It  muft  work  before  you  ftop  it  up. 
The  older  your  Honey  is,  the  whiter  yourMetheg- 
lin  will  be.  ' 

Meath  with  fiaijins. 

Put  forty  gallons  of  water  into  your  Caldron, 
and  with  a  fth'ck  take  the  height  of  the  water,  ma¬ 
king  a  notch  where  the  fuperficies  of  the  water 
cometh.  Then  put  to  the  water  ten  gallons  of  Ho¬ 
ney,  which  dinolve  with  much  laving  it,  then  pre- 

fcntly 


[»9] 

fcndy  boil  it  gently,  skimming  it  all  the  while,til! 
it  be  free  from  fcum.  Then  put  into  it  a  thin  bag 
of  boulter-cloth  containing  forty  pound  weight 
of  the  belt  blue  Raifins  of  the  fun,  well  picked.* 
waffled,  and  wiped  dry  ;  and  let  the  bag  be  lo  large 
that  theRalins  may  lie  ateafe,  andloofly  in  it. 
When  you  perceive  that  the  Ralins  are  boiled 
enough  to  be  very  foft,  that  you  may  ftrain  out  all 
theirTubftance,  take  out  the  bag,  and  Itrain  out 
all  the  liquor  by  a  ftrong  Pr els.  Put  it  back  to  the 
Honey-liquor ,  and  boil  all  together  (having 
thrown  away  the  husks  of  the  Ralins  with  the 
bag  )  till  your  liquor  be  funk  down  to  the  notch  of 
your  ftick,  which  is  the  fign  of  dueftrength;  then 
let  it  cool  in  a  wooden  veflel,  and  let  it  run  tho- 
row  a  ftrainer  to  lever  it  from  the  fetlings,  and  put 
it  into  a  ftrong  veflel,  that  hath  had  Sack  or  Mufe 
kadine  in  it,  not  filling  it  within  three  fingers 
breadth  of  the  top  (for  otherwife  it  will  break 
the  veflel  with  working)  and  leave  the  bung  open 
whiles  it  worketh ,  which  will  be  fix  weeks  very 
ftrongly,  though  it  be  put  into  a  cold  Cellar.  And 
after  nine  months  you  may  begin  to  drink  ir. 

Morcllo-Wine. 

To  half  an  Aume  of  White-wine,  take  twenty 
pounds  of  Morello-Cherries,  theftalks  being  firft 
plucked  off.  Bruife  the  Cherries  and  break  the 
ltones.  Pour  into  the  Wine  the  juyee  that  comes 
out  of  thp  Cherries ;  but  put  all  the  folid  fub- 
ftance  of  them  into  a  long  bag  of  Boulter-cloth, 
and  hang  it  in  the  Wine  at  the"  bung,  fo  that  it  lie 
not  in  the  bottom,  but  only  reach  to  touch  it,  and 
therefore  nail  it  down  at  the  mouth  of  the  bung. 
Then  ftop  it  cloie.  For  variety  you  may  put  feme 

clear 


[  90  ] 

clear  juycc  of  Cherries  alone  (but  draw  from  a 
larger  proportion  of  Cherries)  into  another  par- 
cefof  Wine.  -  To  either  of  them  if  you  will  Aro¬ 
matize  the  drink,  take  to  this  quantity  two  ounces 
of  Cinnamon  grofly  broken  and  bruifed,  and  put 
it  in  a  little  bag  at  the  fpiggot,  that  all  the  Wine 
you  draw  may  run  through  the  Cinnamon. 

You  muft  be  careful  in  bruifing  the  Cherries,  and 
breaking  the  ftones  ;  for  if  you  do  all  at  once,  the 
liquor  will  fparkle  about.  But  you  muft  firft  bruile 
the  Cherries  gently  in  a  Mortar,  and  rub  through 
a  fieve  all  that  will  pals,  and  ftrain  the  reiidue  hard 
through  your  hands.  Then  beat  the  remaining 
hard  lb  ftrongly,  as  may  break  all  the  ftones.  Then 
put  all  together,  and  ftrain  the  clean  through  a 
lubtil  ftrainer,  and  put  the  folider  i'ubftance  into 
the  bag  to  hang  in  the  Wine. 

Currans  Wine. 

Take  a  pound  of  the  beft  Cnrrans  clean  picked.* 
and  pour  upon  them  in  a  deep  ftraight-mouthed 
earthen  vefiel  fix  pounds  or  pints  of  hot  water,  in 
which  you  have  dilTolved  three  fpoonfuls  of  the 
pureft  and  neweft  Ale-yeaft ;  ftop  it  very  clofe  till 
it  ferment,  then  give  Inch  vent  as  is  necelfary,  and 
keep  it  warm  for  about  three  days,  it  will  work 
ferment. Tafte  it  after  two  days  to  fee  if  it  be  grown 
to  your  liking.  As  loon  as  you  find  it  fo ,  let  it  run 
through  a  ftrainer,  to  leave  behind  all  theexhauft- 
ed  Currans  and  the  yeaft,  and  lb  bottle  it  up.  It 
will  be  exceeding  quick  and  plealant,  and  is  ad-^ 
mirable  good  to  cool  the  Liver,  and  cleanfe  the 
blood.  It  will  be  ready  to  drink  in  five  or  fix  days 
after  it  is  bottled ;  and  you  may  drink  fafely  large 
draughts  of  it. 

Scotch 


[9*1 

Scotch  Ale  from  my  Lady  Holmbey* 

The  excellent  Scotch  Ale  is  made  thus.  Heat 
Spring-water ;  it  muft  not}  boil,  but  be  ready  to 
boil,which  you  will  know  by  leaping  up  in  bubbles* 
Then  pour  it  to  the  Mault,  but  by  little  and  little, 
ftirring  them  ftrongly  together  all  the  while  they 
are  mingling.  When  all  the  water  is  in,  it  muft  be 
lb  proportioned  that  it  be  very  thick.  Then  cover 
the  veil'd  well  with  a  thick  mat  made  on  purpole 
with  a  hole  for  the  hick,  and  that  with  Coverlets 
and  Blankets  to  keep  in  all  the  heat.  After  three 
or  four  hours,  let  it  run  out  by  the  ftick  (  putting 
new-heated  water  upon  the  Mault,  if  you  pleafe, 
for  fmall  Ale  or  Beer  )  into  aHoglhead  with  the 
head  out.  There  let  it  ftand  till  it  begin  to  blink, 
and  grow  long  like  thin  Syrup.  If  youletitftay 
too  long,  and  grow  too  thick,  it  will  be  fowre* 
Then  put  it  again  into  the  Chaldron,  and  boil  ic 
an  hour,  or  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  put  it  into  a 
wooden  veil'd  to  cool,  which  will  require  near 
forty  hours  for  a  Hoglhead.  Then  pour  it  off  gent¬ 
ly  from  thefeding.  This  quantity  (of  a  Hoglhead  ) 
will  require  better  then  a  quart  of  the  belt  Ale- 
barm,  which  you  muft  put  to  it  thus.  Put  it  to  a- 
bout  three  quarts  of  wort,  and  ftir  it,  to  make  it 
work  well.  When  the  barm  is  rifen  quick,  fcum  ic 
off'  to  put  to  the  reft  of  the  wort  by  degrees.  The 
remaining  liquor  (that  is,  the  three  quarts  )  will 
have  drawn  into  it  all  the  heavy  dregs  of  the  barm, 
and  you  may  put  it  to  the  Ale  of  the  l'econd  run¬ 
ning,  but  not  to  this.  Put  the  barm  you  have 
fcummed  off  (  which  wiH  be  at  leaft  a  quart )  to  a- 
bouttwo  gallons  of  the  wort,  and  ftir  it  to  make 
that  rife  and  work.  Then  put  two  gallons  more  to 

ir. 


[  92  ] 

it.  Doing  thus  at  feveral  times  till  all  be  mingled 
which  Will  require  a  whole  day  to  do.  Cover  it 
clofe  ,  and  let  it  work ,  till  it  be  at  its  height ,  and 
begin  to  fall,  which  may  require  ten  or  twelve 
hours,  or  more.  Watch  this  well,  left  it  fink  too 
much,  for  then  it  will  be  dead.  Then  feum  off  the 
rhickcftpart  of  the  barm,  and  tun  your  Ale  into 
the  Hoglhead,  leaving  all  the  bung  open  a  day  or 
two.  Then  lay  a  ftrong  paper  upon  it,  to  keep  the 
clay  from  falling  in,  that  you  muft  then  lay  upon 
it,  in  which  you  muft  make  a  little  hole,  to  let  it 
work  out.  You  muft  have  fome  of  the  fame  liquor 
to  fill  it  up,  as  it  works  over.  When  it  hath  done 
working,  flop  it  up  very  dole,  and  keep  it  in  a  very 
cold  Cellar.  It  will  be  fit  to  broach  after  a  year, 
and  be  very  clear,  fweet,  and  pleafant,  and  will 
continue  a  year  longer  drawing ;  and  the  laft  glafs- 
ful  be  as  pure  and  as  quick  as  the  firft.  You  begin 
to  broach  it  high.  Let  your  Cask  have  ferved  fox* 
fweet- wine. 

To  tnuke  Ale  dr  ini \  quick. 

When  fmall  Ale  hath  wrought  fufficiently,  draw 
it  into  bottlesjbut  firft  pur  into  every  bottle  twelve 
good  Raifins  of  the  Sun  fplit  and  ftoned :  then  ftop 
up  the  bottle  clofe,  and  fet  it  in  fand  (gravel)  or  a 
cold  dry  Cellar.  After  a  while  this  will  drink  ex¬ 
ceeding  quick  and  pleafant.  Likewife  take  fix 
wheat-corns,  andbruife  them,and  put  into  a  bottle 
of  Ale :  it  will  make  it  exceeding  quick  and  ftrong-< 
er. 

To  make  Cider. 

Take  a  peck  of  Apples,  and  fiice  them*  and  boil 
them  in  a  barrel  of  water,  till  the  third  part  be  wa¬ 
fted  5 


[  93  ] 

fted :  then  cool  your  water  as  you  do  for  Wort,  and 
when  it  is  cold  you  muft  pour  the  water  upon  three 
mealures  of  grown  Apples.  Then  draw  forth  the 
water  at  a  tap  three  or  four  times  a  day,  for  three 
days  together.  Then  prefs  out  the  liquor,  and  tun 
it  up ;  when  it  hath  done  working;,  then  ftop  it  up 
dole. 

A  very  pleafant  Drhf  of  Apples. 

Take  about  fifty  pippins,quarter  and  core  them, 
without  paring  them  ;  for  the  paring  is  the  cor- 
dialeft  part  of  them  :  therefore  only  wipe  or  wafh 
them  well,  and  pick  away  the  black  excrefcence  at 
the  top ;  and  be  lure  to  leave  out  all  the  feeds, 
which  are  hot.  You  may  cut  them  (after  all  the 
fuperfluities  are  taken  away)  into  thinner  dices,  if 
you  pleafe.  Put  three  gallons  of  Fountain-water 
to  them  in  a  great  pipkin,  and  let  them  boil  till 
the  Apples  become  clear  and  tranfparent ;  which 
is  a  fign  they  are  perfedrly  tender,  and  will  be  in  a 
good  half  hour,  or  a  little  more.  Then  with  your 
ladle  break  them  into  mafh  and  pulp,  incorporated 
with  the  water  ;  letting  all  boil  half  an  hour  lon¬ 
ger,  that  the  water  may  draw  into  it  l'elf  all  the 
vertue  of  the  Apples.  Then  put  to  them  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  pure  double  refined  Sugar  in  pow¬ 
der,  which  will  foon  diffolve  in  that  hot  liquor. 
Then  pour  it  into  an  Hippocras-bag,  and  let  it  run 
through  it  two  or  three  times,  to  oe  very  clear. 
Thenput  it  up  into  bottles,  and  after  a  little  time 
It  will  be  a  moft  pleafant,  quick,  cooling,  fmooth- 
*ng  drink.  Excellent  in  fharp  Gonorrhea's. 


[  94  ] 

Sir  Paul  Neile’s  way. of  mailing  Cider . 

Thebeft  Apples  make  the  beft  Cider,  as  Pear- 
mainSjPippins,  Golden-pippins,  and  the  like.  Cod¬ 
lings  make  the  fineft  Cider *>f  all.They  muft  be  ripe, 
when  you  make  Cider  of  them,  and  is  in  prime  in 
the  fummer  feafon,  when  no  other  Cider  is  good, 
but  lafteth  not  long,not  beyond  Autumn.The  foun¬ 
dation  of  making  perfect  Cider  confifteth  in  not 
having  it  work  much,fcarce  ever  at  alii  but  at  Jeaft, 
no  fecond  time ;  which  ordinary  Cider  doth  often, 
upon  change  of  weather,and  upon  motion  j  6c  upon 
every  working  it  grows  harder.  Do  then  thus 

Chufe  good  Apples.  Red-ftreaks  are  the  beft  for 
,  Cider  to  keep  ;  Gennet-moils  the  next,  then  Pip¬ 
pins.  Let  them  lie  about  three  weeks ,  after  they 
are  gathered  j  then  ftamp  and  ftrain  them  in  the 
ordinary  way,  into  a  wooden  fat  that  hath  a  fpigot 
three  or  four  fingers  breadth  above  the  bottom. 
Cover  the  fat  with  fome  hair  or  fackcloth,  to  fe- 
cure  it  from  any  thing  to  fall  in,  and  to  keep  in 
fome  of  the  Spirits,  fo  to  preferve  it  from  dying, 
but  not  fo  much  as  to  make  it  ferment.  When  the 
juyee  hath  been  there  twelve  hours,  draw  it  by  the 
fpigot  (the  Fat  inclining  that  way,  as  if  it  were  a 
little  tilted)  into  a  barrel ;  which  muft  not ,  be 
full  by  about  two  fingers.  Leave  the  bung  openror 
the  air  to  come  in,  upon  a  fuperficies  allalong  the 
barrel,  to  hinder  it  from  fermenting ;  but  not  fo 
large  a  fuperficies  as  to  endanger  dying,  by  the 
airs  depredating  too  many  fpirits  from  it. 

The  drift  in  both  thefe  fetlings  is,  that  the  grof- 
fer  parts  confifting  of  the  fubftance  of  the  Apple, 
may  fettle  to  the  bottom,  and  be  fevered  from  the 
liquor  j  for  it  is  that ,  which  maketh  it  work  a- 

gain 


[?#] 

gain  (upon  motion  or  change  of  weather)  and 
fpoils  it.  After  twenty  four  hours  draw  of  it,  to  fee 
if  it  be  clear,  by  the  fetling  of  all  dregs,  above 
Which  your  fpigot  muft  be.  If  it  be  not  clear 
enough,  draw  it  from  the  thick  dregs  into  another 
veffei,and  let  it  fettle  there  twenty  lour  hours.This 
veffel  muft  be  lefs  then  the  firft,  becaufe  you  draw 
not  all  out  of  the  firft;  If  then  it  ftiould  not  be 
clear  enough,  draw  it  into  a  third,  yet  lefler  then 
the  fecond ;  but  ufually  it  is  at  the  firft.  When  it 
is  clear  enough,  draw  it  into  bottles,  filling  them 
Within  two  fingers,  which  flop  clofe.  After  two  or 
three  days  vifit  them  ;  that  if  their  be  danger  of 
their  working( which  would  break  the  bottles)you 
may  take  out  the  floppies,  and  let  them  ftand  open 
for  half  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Then  flop  them  clol'e, 
and  they  are  fecure  for  ever  after.  In  cold  freefing 
Weather,  fet  them  upon  Hay,  and  cover  them  over 
With  Hay  or  Straw,  In  open  weather  in  Winter 
tranfpofe  them  to  another  part  of  the  Cellar  to 
ftand  upon  the  bare  ground  or  pavement.  In  hoc 
Weather  fet  them  in  fand.  The  Cider  of  the  Ap«= 
pies  of  the  laft  feafon,  as  Pippins,  not  PearmainSj 
nor  Codlings,  will  laft  till  the  Summer  grow  hot. 
Though  this  never  work,  'tis  not  of  the  nature  of 
Stummed  Wine  s  becaufe  the  naughty  dregs  are 
ftot  left  in  it. 

Doftor  Harvey’s  pleafant  Water  “Cider)  whereof  he 

ufed  to  drini^  much ,  muring  it  his  ordinary  Drin 

Take  onebufhel  of  Pippins,  cut  them  into  dices 
With  the  parings  and  cores ;  boil  them  in  twelve 
gallons  of  water,  till  the  goodnefs  of  them  be  in 
the  water?  and  that  eonfumed  about  three  gallons. 

G  %  Theft 


1 96 1 

Then  put  it  into  an  Hippocras-bag,  made  of  Cot¬ 
ton  j  and  when  it  is  clear  run  out,  and  almoft  cold, 
fweeten  it  with  five  pound  of  brown  Sugar,fand 
put  a  pint  of  Ale-yeaft  to  it,  and  fet  it  a  working 
uvo  nights  and  days :  then  skim  off  theyeaft  clean, 
and  put  it  into  bottles,  and  let  it  ftand  two  or  three 
days,  till  the  yeaft  fall  dead  at  the  top  :  then  take 
it  off  clean  with  a  knife,  and  fill  it  up  a  little  with¬ 
in  the  neck  (that  is  to  fay,  that  a  little  above  a  fin¬ 
gers  breadth  of  the  neck  be  empty,  between  the 
fuperficies  of  the  liquor,  and  the  bottom  of  the 
Hopple)  and  then  ftop  them  up  and  tye  them,  or 
elfe  it  will  drive  out  the  Corks.  Within  a  fortnight 
you  may  drink  of  it.  It  will  keep  five  or  fix  weeks. 

f  Ale  with  Honey. 

.  aii  , .  .  1 

Sir  Thomas  Gower  makes  his  pleafant  and  whole- 
fom  drink  of  Ale  and  Honey  thus :  Take  forty  gal¬ 
lons  of  frnall  Ale,  and  five  gallons  of  Honey.  When 
the  Ale  is  ready  to  tun,  and  is  ftill  warm,  take  out 
ten  gallons  of  it  5  which,  whiles  it  is  hot,  mingle 
with  it  the  five  gallons  of  Honey,  ftirring  it  ex¬ 
ceeding  well  with  a  clean  arm  till  they  be  perfectly 
incorporated.  Then  cover  it,  and  let  it  cool  and 
ftand  ftill.  At  the  fame  time  you  begin  to  diffolve 
the  Honey  in  this  parcel,  you  take  the  other  of 
thirty  gallons  alio  warm,  and  tun  it  up  with  barm, 
and  put  it  into  a  veffel  capable  to  hold  all  the 
whole  quantity  of  Ale  and  Honey,  and  let  it  work 
there  j  and  becaufe  the  veffel  will  be  fo  far  from 
being  full,  that  the  grofs  foulnefs  of  the  Ale  can¬ 
not  work  over,  make  holes  in  the  tides  of  the  bar¬ 
rel,  even  with  the  fuperficies  of  the  liquor  in  it, 
out  of  which  the  grofs  feculence  may  purge  ;  and 
thefe  holes  maft  be  faft  fhut ,  when  you  put  in  the 


[  97  ] 

reft  of  the  Ale  with  the  Honey :  which  you  muft 
do,  when  you  fee  the  ftrong  working  of  the  other 
is  over  ;  and  that  it  works  but  gently,  which  may 
be  after  two,  three,  or  four  days,  according  to  the 
warmth  of  thefcafon.  You  muft  warm  your  folu- 
tion  of  Honey,  when  you  put  it  in,  to  be  as  warm 
as  Ale,  when  you  tun  it ;  and  then  it  will  fet  the 
whole  a  working  afrelh,  and  calling  out  more  foul- 
nefs  ;  which  it  would  do  too  violently,  if  you  put 
it  in  at  the  firft  of  the  tunning  it.  It  is  not  amifs,  that 
fome  feculence  lie  thick  upon  the  Ale,  and  work 
not  all  out  5  for  that  will  keep  in  the  fpirits.  Af¬ 
ter  you  have  dilfolved  the  Honey  in  the  Ale,  you 
muft  boil  it  a  little  to  skim  it ;  but  skim  it  not,  till 
it  hath  flood  a  while  from  the  fire  to  cool ;  elfe  you 
will  skim  away  much  of  the  Honey, which  will  Hill 
rife  as  long  as  it  boileth.  If  you  will  not  make  fo 
great  a  quantity  at  a  time,  do  it  in  lefs  in  the  fame 
proportions.  He  makes  it  about  Michaelmas  for 
Lent. 

When  ftrong  Beer  groweth  two  hard,and  flat  for 
want  of  Spirits,  take  four  or  five  gallons  of  it  out 
of  a  Hoglhead,  and  boil  five  pound  of  Honey  in 
it,  and  skim  it,  and  put  it  warm  into  the  Beer  ; 
and  after  it  hath  done  working,  flop  it  up  clofe. 
This  will  make  it  quick,  plealant,  and  ftronger. 

Small  Ale  for  the  Stone . 

The  Ale  that  I  ufed  to  drink  conftantly  of,  was 
made  in  thefe  proportions.  Take  fourteen  gallons 
of  water,and  half  an  ounce  of  Hops;boil  them  near 
an  hour  together;  then  pour  it  upon  a  peck  of 
Mault.  Have  a  care  the  Mault  be  not  too  fmall 
ground ;  for  then  it  will  never  make  clear  Ale.  Let 
it  foak  fo  near  two  hours.  Then  let  it  run  from  the 

G  3  Mault, 


[  98  ] 

Mault,  and  boil  it  only  one  walm  or  tWa.  Let  it 
ftand  cooling  till  it  be  cool  enough  to  work  with 
barm,  which  let  it  be  of  Beer  rather  than  Ale,  a* 
bout  half  a  pint. 

After  it  hath  Wrought  fome  hours,when  you  fee 
it  come  to  its  height,  and  is  near  beginning  to  fall 
in  working,  tun  it  into  a  barrel  of  eight  gallons  3 
and  in  four  or  five  days  it  will  be  fit  to  broach  to 
drink.  Since  I  have  caufed  the  wort  to  be  boiled  a 
good  half  hour  ;  fincc  again  I  boil  it  a  good  hour, 
and  it  is  much  the  better ;  becaufe  the  former  Ale 
rafted  a  little  raw.  Now  becaufe  it  confumes  in 
boiling,  and  would  be  too  ftrong,  if  this  Mault 
made  a  Iefs  proportion  of  Ale  3  I  have  added  a 
gallon  of  water  at  the  firft,taking  fifteen  gallons  in¬ 
stead  of  fourteen.  Since  I  have  added  halt  a  peck 
of  Mault  to  the  former  proportions,  to  make  it  a 
little  ftronger  in  Winter. 


Apple-Drink.  with  Sugar ,  Honey ,  &c. 

A  very  pleafant  drink  is  made  of  Apples,  thus ; 
Boil  diced  Apples  in  water,  to  make  the  water 
ftrong  of  Apples,  as  when  you  make  to  drink  it 
for  coolnefs  and  pleafure.Sweeten  it  with  Sugar  to 
your  tafte,  fuch  a  quantity  of  diced  Apples,  as 
would  make  fo  much  water  ftrong  enough  of  Ap¬ 
ples  3  and  then  bottle  it  up  clofe  for  three  or  four 
months.There  will  come  a  thick  mother  at  the  top, 
which  being  taken  off,all  the  reft  will  be  very  clear, 
and  quick  and  pleafant  to  the  tafte, beyond  any  Ci¬ 
der.  It  will  be  the  better  to  moft  taftes,  it  you  put 
a  very  little  Rofemary  into  the  liquor  when  you 
boil  it,  and  a  little  Limon-peel  into  each  bottle 
when  you  bottle  it  up. 


To 


[  99  ] 

To  tnal^e  Stepony. 

Take  a  gallon  of  Conduit-water,  one  pound  of 
blue  Raifins  of  the  Sun  (toned,  and  half  a  pound 
of  Sugar.  Squeeze  the  juyce  of  two  Limons  upon 
the  Raifins  and  Sugar,  and  dice  the  rhinds  upon 
them.  Boil  the  water,  and  pour  it  fo  hot  upon  the 
ingredients  in  an  earthen  pot,  and  ftir  them  well 
together.  So  let  it  Hand  twenty  four  hours.  Then 
put  it  into  bottle  (  having  firft  let  it  run  through  a 
(trainer )  and  fet  them  in  a  Cellar  or  other  cool 
place. 

JVeal^  Honey-drin 

Take  nine  parts  of  warm  fountain-water,  and 
diflblve  in  it  one  pint  of  pure  white  Honey,  by 
laving  it  therein,  till  it  be  difiolved.  Then  boil  it 
gently,  skimming  it  all  the  while,  till  allthefcum 
Be  perfectly  feummed  off ;  and  after  that  boil  it  a 
little  longer,  peradventure  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
In  all  it  will  require  two  or  three  hours  boiling,  fo 
that  at  laft  one  third  part  may  be  confumed.  About 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  oefore  you  ceafe  boiling,  and 
take  it  from  the  fire,  put  to  it  a  little  fpoonful  of 
cleanfed  and  diced  Ginger ;  and  almoft  half  as 
much  of  the  thin  yellow  rhind  of  Orange,  when 
you  are  even  ready  to  take  it  from  the  fire,  fo  as  the 
Orange  boil  only  one  walm  in  it.  Then  pour  it  in¬ 
to  a  well-glafed  ftrong  deep  great  gally-pot,  and 
let  it  (land  lb,  till  it  be  almoft  cold,that  it  be  fcarce 
lukewarm.  Then  put  to  it  a  little  filver  fpoonful  of 
pure  Ale-yeaft,  and  work  it  together  with  a  ladle 
to  make  it  ferment :  as  foon  as  it  beginneth  to  do 
fo,  cover  it  clofc  with  a  fit  cover,  and  put  a  thick 

G  4  doubled 


[  10°  ] 

doubled  woollen  cloth  about  it.  Caft  all  things  fa 
that  this  may  be  done  when  you  are  going  to  bed. 
Next  morning  when  you  rife,  you  will  find  the 
barm  gathered  all  together  in  the  middle  5  fcum  it 
dean  off  with  a  filver  lpoon  and  a  ieather,and  bot¬ 
tle  up  the  liquor,  flopping  it  very  clofe.  It  will  be 
ready  to  drink  in  two  or  three  days  ;  but  it  will 
keep  well  a  month  or  two.  It  will  be  from  the  firft 
very  quick  and  plealant. 

Mr.  Webb's  Ale  andBragot. 

Five  bufhels  of  Mault  will  make  twoHoglbeads. 
The  firft  running  makes  one  very  good  Hogftiead,- 
but  not  very  ftrong  ;  the  fecond  is  very  weak.  To 
this  proportion  boil  a  quarter  ol  a  pound  ol  Hops 
in  all  the  water  that  is  to  make  the  two  Hogfheadsj 
that  is,  two  ounces  to  each  Hogfhead.  You  put 
your  water  to  the  mault  in  the  ordinary  way.  Boil 
it  wclljWhen  you  come  to  work  it  with  yeaft,  take 
very  good  Beer-yeaft,  not  Ale-yeaft. 

To  make  Bragot,he  takes  the  firft  running  of  fuch 
Ale,  and  boils  a  Ids  proportion  of  Honey  in  it, 
then  when  he  makes  his  ordinary  Meath  1  but  dou¬ 
ble  or  triple  as  much  of  Spice  and  Herbs.  As  for  ex¬ 
ample,  to  twenty  gallons  of  the  ftrong  wort,  he 
puts  eight  or  ten  pound,  (according  as  your  tafte 
liketh  more  or  Ids  Honey)  of  Honey  i  but  at  leaft 
triple  as  much  Herbs,  and  triple  as  much  Spice  as 
would  ferve  fuch  a  quantity  of  final!  Meath  as  he 
made  mc.(For  to  a  ftronger  Meath  you  put  a  great¬ 
er  proportion  of  Herbs  and  Spice,  then  to  a  fmall  5 
by  realon  that  you  mull  keep  it  a  longer  time  before 
you  drink  it :  and  the  length  ol  time  mellows  and 
tames  the  tafte  of  the  Herbs  and  Spice.)  And  when 
it  is  tunned  intheveffel  (alter  working  with  the 

barm) 


[ioi] 

barm  )  you  hang  in  it  a  bag  with  bruifed  Spices 
(  rather  more  than  you  boiled  in  it),  which  is  to 
hang  in  the  barrel  all  the  while  you  draw  it. 

He  makes  alfo  Meath  with  the  fecond  weak  run¬ 
ning  of  the  Ale ;  and  to  this  he  ufeth  the  fame  pro¬ 
portions  of  Honey,  Herbs,  and  Spice,  as  for  his 
lmall  Meath  of  pure  water  ;  and  ufeth  the  fame 
manner  of  boiling,  working  with  yeaft,  and  other 
circumftances,  as  in  making  ot  that. 

The  Count  eft  of  Newport’*  Cherry-Wine. 

Pick  the  beft  Cherries  free  from  rotten,  and  pick 
the  {talks  from  them :  put  them  into  an  earthen 
pan :  bruife  them  by  griping  and  {training  them  in 
your  hands,  and  let  them  hand  all  night :  on  the 
next  day  {train  them  out  (  through  a  Napkin ; 
which  if  it  be  a  courfe  and  thin  one,  let  the  juyce 
run  through  a  Hippocras  or  gelly-bag,  upon  a 
pound  of  fine  pure  Sugar  in  powder,  to  every  gal¬ 
lon  of  juyce  )  and  to  every  gallon  put  a  pound  of 
Sugar,  and  put  it  into  a  velfel.  Be  fure  your  veflei 
be  full,  or  your  wine  will  be  fpoiled  j  you  mult  let 
it  ftand  a  month  before  you  bottle  it,  and  in  every 
bottle  you  rauft  put  a  lump  (  a  piece  as  big  as  a 
Nutmeg)  of  Sugar,  The  velfel  mult  notbeftopt 
until  it  hath  done  working. 

Strawberry-Wine. 

Bruife  the  Strawberries,  and  put  them  into  a  li¬ 
nen-bag  which  hath  been  a  little  ufed,  that  fo  the 
liquor  may  run  through  more  eafily.  You  hang  in 
the  bag  at  the  bung  into  the  veflei,  before  you  do 
put  in  your  Strawberries.  The  quantity  of  the  fruit 
is  left  to  your  difcretion  ;  for  you  will  judg  to  bo 

there 


[  10*  ] 

there  enough  of  them,  when  the  colour  of  the 
Wine  is  high  enough.  During  the  working,  you 
leave  the  bung  open.  The  working  being  over,you 
ftop  your  veUel.  Cherry-wine  is  made  after  the 
fame  fafhion,  But  it  is  a  little  more  troublefom  to 
break  the  Cherry-ftones,  But  is  necefTary,  that  if 
your  Cherries  be  of  the  black  fowre  Cherries,  you 
put  to  it  a  little  Cinnamon,  and  a  few  Cloves. 

To  make  Wine  of  Cherries  alone. 

Take  one  hundred  pound  weight,or  what  quan¬ 
tity  you  pleafe,  of  ripe,  but  found,  pure,  dry  and 
well  gathered  Cherries.Bruife  and  mafh  them  with 
your  hands  toprefs  out  all  their  juyce/which  ftrain 
through  a  bouiter-cloth,into  a  deep  narrow  wood¬ 
en  tub,  and  cover  it  clofe  with  clothes.  It  will  be- 

f  in  to  work  and  ferment  within  three  or  four 
ours,  and  a  thick  foul  feum  will  rife  to  the  top. 
Skim  it  off  as  it  rifeth  to  any  good  head,  and  pre- 
fently  cover  it  again.  Do  thus  till  no  more  great 
quantity  of  feum  arife,  which  will  be  four  or 
five  times,  or  more.  And  by  this  means  the  liquor 
will  become  clear,  all  the  grofs  muddy  parts  riling 
up  in  feum  to  the  top.  When  you  find  that  the 
height  of  the  working  is  paft,  and  that  it  begins  to 
go  lefs,  tun  it  into  a  barrel,  letting  it  run  again 
through  a  boulter,to  keep  out  all  the  grofs  feculent 
fubftance.  If  you  Ihould  let  it  ftay  before  you  tun 
it  up,  till  the  working  were  too  much  deaded,  the 
Wine  would  prove  dead.  Let  it  remain  in  the  bar¬ 
rel  clofe  ftopped,a  month  or  five  weeks.Then  draw 
it  into  bottles,  into  each  of  which  put  a  lump  of 
fine  Sugar,  before  you  draw  the  Wine  into  it,  and 
flop  them  very  clofe,and  fet  them  in  a  cold  Cellar. 
You  may  drink  them  after  three  or  four  months. 


[  »°3  ] 

This  Wine  is  exceediug  pleafant,  ftrong,  fpiritfu! 
and  comfortable. 

Aqua  Mirabilis  Sir  Kcnelm  Digby’r  way. 

Take  Cubebs,  Gallingale,  CardamuS,  Melhlot- 
flowers.  Cloves,  Mace,  Ginger,  Cinnamon,  of  each 
one  dram  bruiled  (mail,  juyee  of  Celandine  one 

Eint,  juyee  of  Spearmint  half  a  pint,  juyee  of  Balm 
alfapint.  Sugar  one  pound,  flower  of  Cowllips, 
Rofemary,  Borage,  Buglofs ,  Marigold,  of  each 
two  drams,  the  beft  Sack  three  pints,  ftrong  Ange¬ 
lica-water  one  pint,  red  Rofe- water  half  a  pint  j 
bruife  the  Spices  and  Flowers,  and  fteep  them  in 
the  Sack  ana  juyees  one  night :  the  next  morning 
diftil  it  in  an  ordinary  or  glafs-ftill,  and  firft  lay 
Harts-tongue  leaves  in  the  bottom  of  the  ftill. 

The  vertues  of  the  precedent  Water. 

This  water  preferveth  the  Lungs  without  grie¬ 
vances,  and  helpeth  them :  being  wounded,  it  fuf- 
fereth  the  Blood  not  to  purifie,  but  multiplied!  the 
fame.  This  water  fuffereth  not  the  heart  to  burn, 
nor  melancholly,  nor  the  Spleen,  to  be  lifted  up 
above  nature ;  it  expelleth  the  Rheum,  preferveth 
the  Stomach,  conferveth  Youth,  and  procureth  a 
good  Colour :  it  preferveth  Memory,  it  deftroyeth 
the  Palfle :  If  this  be  given  to  one  a  dying ,  a 
lpoonful  of  it  reviveth  him ;  in  the  Summer  ule  one 
fpoonful  a  week  falling ;  in  the  Winter  two  fpoon- 
fuls. 


OF 


[  IG4  1 


I  •***•■»  i 

O  F 

COOKERY- 


To  make  a  SackJPoJfet. 

BOil  two  Wine-quarts  of  Swect-cream  in  a 
Pofnet  5  when  it  hath  boiled  a  little,  take 
it  from  the  fire,  and  beat  the  yolks  of  nine 
or  ten  frefh  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  four  with  it, 
beginning  with  two  or  three  fpoonfuls,  and  adding 
more  till  all  be  incorporated ;  then  fet  it  over  the 
fire,  to  recover  a  good  degree  of  heat,  but  not  fo 
much  as  to  boil  5  and  always  ftir  it  one  way,  left 
you  break  the  confiftence.  In  the  mean  time,  let 
half  a  pint  of  Sack  or  White  Muskadine  boil  a  ve¬ 
ry  little  in  a  bafon,  upon  a  Chafing-difh  of  Coals, 
with  three  quarters  of  a  pound"  of  Sugar ,  and 
three  or  four  quartered  Nutmegs,  and  as  many 
pretty  big  pieces  of  flicks  of  Cinnamon.  When 
this  is  well  fcummed,and  ftill  very  hot,take  it  from 
the  fire,  and  immediately  pour  into  it  the  Cream, 
beginning  to  pour  near  it,  Dut  railing  by  degrees 
your  hand  fo  that  it  may  fall  down  from  a  good 
height ;  and  without  any  more  to  be  done,  it  will 
be  then  fit  to  eat.  It  is  very  good  kept  cold  as  vvell 
as  eaten  hot.  It  doth  very  well  with  it,  to  put  into 
the  Sack  (immediately  before  you  put  in  the 
Cream  )  fome  Ambergreece ,  or  Ambcred-Su- 
gar,  or  Paftils.  When  it  is  made,  you  may  put 

powd«r 


[  rty  ] 

powder  of  Cinnamon  and  Sugar  upon  it,  if  yota 
like  it.  ,  - 

Another. 

To  two  quarts  of  Cream,  if  it  be  in  the  Summer, 
when  the  Cream  is  thick  and  belt,  take  but  two  or 
three  yolks  of  Eggs.  But  in  the  Winter,  wheh  it  is 
thin  and  hungry,  take  fix  or  feven  j  but  never  no 
whites.  And  of  Sack  or  Muskadine,  take  a  good 
third  (  fcarce  half  )  of  a  pint ;  and  three  quarters  of 
a  pound  of  fine  Sugar.  Let  the  Sugar  ana  Sack  boil 
well  together,  that  it  be  almoft  like  a  Syrup :  and 
juft  as  you  take  it  from  the  fire,  put  in  your  ground 
Amber  or  Paftils,  and  conftantly  pour  in  the 
Cream,  with  which  the  eggs  are  incorporated  ; 
and  do  all  the  reft  as  is  laid  in  the  foregoing  pro- 
cefsp 

Ambered-Sugar  is  made  by  grinding  very  well, 
four  grains  of  Ambergreece,  and  one  of  Musk, 
with  a  little  fine  Sugar  ;  or  grinding  two  or  three 
Spanifh  Paftils  very  fmall. 

A  plain  ordinary  PoJJet. 

Put  a  pint  of  good  Milk  to  boil,  as  loon  as  it 
dothfo,  take  it  from  the  fire,  to  let  the  great  heat 
of  it  cool  a  little ;  for  doing  fo,  the  curd  will  be 
the  tenderer,  and  the  whole  of  a  more  uniform 
confidence.  When  it  is  prettily  cooled,  pour  it  in¬ 
to  your  pot,  wherein  is  about  two  fpoonfuls  of 
Sack,  and  about  four  of  Ale,  with  fufficient  Su¬ 
gar  diffolved  in  them.  So  let  it  ftand  a  while  near 
the  fire,  till  you  cat  it. 


A  Sack 


[  ] 

A  Sacl{  PoJJet, 

Take  three  pints  of  Cream,  boil  in  it  a  little 
Cinnamon,  a  Nutmeg  quartered,  andtwofpoon- 
fuls  of  grated  bread  5  then  beat  the  yolks  of  twelve 
eggs  very  well  with  a  little  cold  Cream,  &  a  fpoon- 
ful  of  Sack.  When  your  Cream  hath  boiled  about 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  thicken  it  up  with  the  eggs, 
and  fweetcn  it  with  Sugar ;  and  take  half  a  pint  of 
Sack,  and  fix  fpoonfuls  of  Ale,  and  put  into  the 
bafin  or  difh  you  intend  to  make  it  in,  with  a  little 
Atnbergreece ,  if  you  pleafe.  Then  pour  your 
Cream  and  Eggs  into  it,  holding  your  hand  as  high 
as  conveniently  you  can,  gently  ftirring  in  the  ba» 
fin  With  the  fpoon  as  you  pour  it  5  fo  l'erve  it  up. 
if  you  pleafe  you  may  ftrew  Sugar  upon  it. 

You  may  ftrew  Ambered-Sugar  upon  it,  as  you 
eat  it ;  or  Sugar  beaten  with  Cinnamon,  if  you 
like  it. 

A  Barley  Sacl ^  Pojfet. 

Take  half  a  pound  or  more  of  French  Barley, 

(  not  Pearl  Barley  )  and  pour  fcalding  water  upon 
it,  and  wafh  it  well  therein,  and  ftrain  it  from  the 
Water,  and  put  it  into  the  corner  of  a  linen  cloth, 
and  ty  it  up  faft  there,  and  ftrike  it  a  dozen  or 
twenty  blows  againft  a  firm  table  or  block,to  make 
it  render  by  fuen  bruifingit,  as  in  the  Country  is 
ufed  with  wheat  to  make  frumenty.Then  put  it  in¬ 
to  a  large  skillet  with  three  pints  of  good  milk.Boil 
this  till  at  leaft  half  be  conliimed,  and  that  it  be¬ 
come  as  thick  as  hafty- pudding; which  will  require 
at  leaft  two  hours ;  and  it  muft  be  carefully  ftirred 
ail  the  while,  left  it  burn-to :  which  if  by  fomc 

little 


[  io7  1 

little  inadvertence  it  fhould  do,  &  that  feme  black 
burned  fubftance  fticketh  to  the  bottom  of  the 
skillet,pour  all  the  good  matter  from  it  into  afrefh 
skillet  *(  or  into  a  bafin  whiles  you  fcour  this  )  and 
renew  boiling  till  it  be  very  thick  ;  All  which  is  to 
make  the  Barley  very  tender  and  pulpy,  and  will 
at  leaft  require  two,or  near  three  hours.Then  pour 
to  it  three  pints  of  good  Cream,  and  boil  them  to¬ 
gether  a  little  while,  ftirring  them  always.  It  will 
be  fome  time  before  the  cold  Cream  boil,  which 
When  it  doth,a  little  will  fuffice.  Then  take  it  from 
the  fire,  and  feafon  it  well  with  Sugar.  Then  take 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Sack,  and  as  much  Rhenilh- 
Wine  (  or  more  of  each  )  and  a  little  Verjuyce,  or 
lharp  Cider,  or  juyee  of  Orange,  and  feafon  it 
Well  with  Sugar  (at  leaft  half  a  pound  to  both)  and 
let  it  over  coals  to  boil.  Which  when  it  doth,  and 
the  Sugar  is  well  melted,  pour,the  Cream  into  it ; 
in  which  Cream  the  Barley  will  be  letled  to  the 
bottom  by  Handing  ftill  unmoved,  after  the  Sugar 
is  well  ftirred  and  melted  in  it,  or  pour  it  through 
a  hair-fieve ;  and  you  may  boil  it  again,  that  it  be 
very  hot,  wJiGn  you  mingle  them  together  j  elfe  it 
may  chance  not  curdle.  Some  of  the  Barley  (but 
little  )  will  go  over  with  it,  and  will  do  no  hurt. 
After  you  have  thus  made  your  PolTet,  let  it  ftand 
warm  a  while  that  the  curd,  may  thicken  ;  but  take 
heed  it  boil  not,  for  that  would  diflolve  it  again 
into  the  confiftence  of  Cream.  When  you  ferve  it 
up,  ftrew  it  over  with  Powder  of  Cinnamon  and 
Sugar.  It  will  be  much  the  better  if  you  ftrew  upon, 
it  lome  Amberj^reece  ground  with  Sugar.  You  may 
boil  bruifed  fticks  of  Cinnamon  in  the  Cream,  and 
in  the  Sack,  before  you  mingle  them.  You  misft 
ufe  clear  Charcoal-fire  under  your  veflels.  The  re¬ 
maining  Barley  will  make  good  Barley-Cream,be- 


[x©8] 

-fpg  boiled  with  frelh  Cream,and  a  little  Cinnamon 
and  Mace  ;  to  which  you  may  add  a  little  Rofe- 
mary  and  Sugar,  when  it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  or 
butter  it  as  you  do  wheat.Or  make  a  pudding  of  it, 
putting  to  it  a  pint  of  Cream,  which  boil  j  then 
add  four  or  five  yolks,  and  two  whites  ofeggs,and 
the  marrow  of  two  bones  cut  fmall,  and  of  one  in 
lumps:  fufficient  Sugar,  and  one  Nutmeg  grated. 
Put  this  either  to  bake  raw,  or  with  puff-pafte 
beneath  and  above  it  in  the  difh-  A  pretty  fmart 
heat,  as  for  white  Manchet,  and  three  quarters  of 
an  hour  in  the  Oven.  Y  ou  may  make  the  like  with 
great  Oat-meal  fealded  (not  boiled)  in  Cream,and 
foaked  anight ;  then  made  up  as  the  other. 

My  Lord  of  CarlifleV  Sacl^PoJfet. 

Take  a  pottle  of  Cream,  and  boil  in  it  a  little 
whole  Cinnamon,and  three  or  four  flakes  of  Mace. 
To  this  proportion  of  Cream  put  in  eighteen  yolks 
of  eggs,  and  eight  of  the  whites  ;  a  pint  of  Sack  j 
beat  your  eggs  very  well,' and  then  mingle  them 
with  your  Sack.  Put  in  three  quarters  ol  a  pound 
of  Sugar  into  the  Wine  and  Eggs,  with  a  Nutmeg 
gratecl,  and  a  little  beaten  Cinnamon  5  fet  the  Ba¬ 
lm  on  the  fire  with  the  Wine  and  Eggs,  andletit 
be  hot.  Then  put  in  the  Cream  boiling  from  the 
fire,  pour  it  on  high,  but  ftir  it  not ;  cover  it  with 
a  difh,  and  when  it  is  fetled,  ftrew  on  the  top  a  lit¬ 
tle  fine  Sugar  mingled  with  three  grains  of  Amber- 
greece,  and  one  grain  of  Musk,  and  ferve  it  up. 

A  Syllabub .  ^ 

My  Lady  Middle fex-  makes  Syllabubs  for  little 
glalfes  with  fpouts,thus ;  Take  three  pints  of  fvveet 

Cream, 


[  i°9  ]  « 

Cream,  one  of  quick  White-vQne  (  or  Rhenifh  ) 
and  a  good  wine  glafsful  (  better  a  quarter  of  a 
pint )  of  Sack ;  mingle  with  them  about  three  quar¬ 
ters  of  a  pound  of  fine  Sugar  in  powder.  Beat  all 
thefe  together  with  a  whisk,  till  all  appeareth  con¬ 
verted  into  froth.  Then  pour  it  into  your  little 
Syllabub-glafTes,  and  let  them  (land  all  night.  The 
next  day  the  Curd  will  be  thick  and  firm  above, 
and  the  drink  clear  under  it.  I  conceive  it  may  do 
well,  to  put  into  each  glafs  (  when  you  pour  the 
liquor  into  it )  a  fprig  of  Rofemary  a  little  bruifed, 
or  a  little  Limon-peel,or  fome  fuch  thing  to  quick¬ 
en  the  tafte  5  or  ufe  Amber-fugar,  or  lpirit  of  Cin¬ 
namon  ,  or  of  Lignum-Cafli<e  j  or  Nutmegs,  or 
Mace,  or  Cloves,  a  very  little. 

A  good  Dijh  of  Cream. 


Boil  a  quart  of  good  Cream  with  flicks  of  Cin¬ 
namon  and  quartered  Nutmeg  and  Sugar  to  your 
tafte.  When  it  is  boiled  enough  to  have  acquitted 
the  tafte  of  the  Spice,  take  the  whites  of  fix  new 
laid  eggs,  and  beat  them  very  well  with  a  little 
frefti  Cream,  then  pour  them  to  your  boiling 
Cream,  and  let  them  boil  a  walm  or  two.  Then 
let  it  run  through  a  boulter, and  put  a  little  Orange- 
flower- water  to  it,  and  fliced  bread  j  and  fo  ferve 
it  up  cold. 

An  excellent  Sganifh  Cream . 

Take  two  quarts  (you  muft  not  exceed  this  pro- 
tortion  in  one  veifel )  of  perfectly  fweet  Cream, 
that  hath  not  been  jogged  with  carriage  5  and  in  a 
Pofnet  fet  it  upon  a  clear  lighted  Charcoal-fire, 
not  too  hot.  When  it  beginneth  to  boil,  call  into 

H  it 


it  a  piece  of  double  refined  hard  Sugar  abour  as 
much  as  two  Walnuts,  and  with  a  ipoon  ftir  the 
Cream  all  on  e  way.  After  two  or  three  rounds, 
you  will  perceive  a  thick  Cream  rife  at  the  top. 
Scum  it  ofi"  With  your  fpoon,_  and  lay  it  in  another 
difh.  And  always  ftir  it  the  fame  way,  and  more 
Cream  will  rife ;  which  as  it  doth  rife,  you  put  it 
into  your  dilh,  one  laire  upon  another.  And  thus 
almoft  all  the  Cream  will  turn  into  this  thick 
Cream,  to  within  two  or  three  lpoonfuls.  If  you 
would  have  it  fvveeter,  you  may  ftrew  fome  Sugar 
upon  the  top  of  it.  You  muft  he  careful  not  to 
have  the  heat  too  much  5  for  then  it  will  turn  to 
oyl ;  as  alfo  if  the  Cream  have  been  carried.  If 
you  would  have  it  warm,  let  the  dilh  you  lay  it  in 
upon  a  chafing'dilh  of  coals. 

Another  Clouted  Cream. 

Milk  your  Cows  in  the  evening,  about  the  ordi¬ 
nary  hour,  and  fill  with  it  a  little  Kettle  about 
three  quarters  full,  fo  that  there  may  be  haply  two 
or  three  gallons  of  Milk.  Let  this  ftand  thus  five 
or  fix  hours.  About  twelve  a  Clock  at  night  kindle 
2  good  fire  of  Charcoal,  and  fet  a  large  Trivet 
over  it.  When  the  fire  is  very  clear  and  quick,  and 
free  from  all  linoak,  fet  your  Kettle  of  Milk  over 
it  upon  the  Trivet,  and  have  in  a  pot  by,  a  quart 
of  good  Cream,  ready  to  put  in  at  the  due  time  % 
which  muft  be, when  you  fee  the  milk  begin  to  boil 
fimpYingly.  Then  pour  in  the  Cream  in  a  little 
ftream  and  low,  upon  a  place  where  you  fee  the 
Milk  fimper.  This  will  prefently  deaden  the  boil¬ 
ing,  and  then  you  muft  pour  in  no  more  Cream 
there,  but  ina  frefii  place  where  it  fimp’reth  and! 
bubbleth  a  little.  Continue  this  pouring  in,  in 

•  new 


.  ■  [  III  ] 

new  places  where  the  milk  boileth,  till  all  your 
Cream  is  in,  watching  it  carefully  to  that  end. 
Then  let  it  continue  upon  the  fire  to  boil,  till  you 
fee  all  the  Milk  rile  up  together  at  the  top,  and  not 
in  little  parcels  here  arid  thereto  that  it  would  run 
over,  if  it  fhould  ftay  longer  upon  the  fire.  Then 
let  two  perfons  take  it  fteadily  off,  and  let  it  by 
in  a  cool  room  to  itand  unmoved  and  uncovered, 
but  lo  as  no  Motes  may  fall  in,  for  the  reft  of  thac 
night,  and  all  the  next  day  and  night,  and  more, 
if  you  would  have  it  thicker.  Then  an  hour  or  two 
before  dinner  cut  the  thick  Cream  at  the  top  with  a 
knife  into  fquares  as  broad  as  your  .hand,,  which 
will  be  the  thicker,  the  longer  it  hath  flood.  Then 
have  a  thin  flice  or  skimmer  of  Latton,  arid  with 
that  raife  up  the  thick  Cream,  putting  your  flice 
under  it  fo  tficely,that  you  take  up  no  milk  with  it ; 
and  have  a  ladle  or  ipoon  in  the  other  hand  to  help 
the  Cream  upon  the  Dice,  which  thereby  will  be¬ 
come  mingled,  and  lay  thefe  parcels  of 'Cream  in 
adiih,  into  which  you  have  firft  put  a  little  raw 
Cream,  or  of  that  (  between  Cream  and  Milk;  that 
is  immediately  under  the  colours..  Tot  take  the 
Clouts  the  more  conveniently,  you  hol'd -aback  of 
a  ladle  or  skimming-difh  againft  the  further  fide  of 
the  Clout,  that  it  may  not  flide  aWay  when  the 
Latton  flice  fhuffeth  it  on  the  other  frde  to.  get  un* 
der  it,&  fo  the  Clout  wilfmingle  together  ,or  dou* 
ble  up,  which  makes; it  the  quicker,  and  the  more 
graceful.  When  you  hAve  la-id  a  good  iaire  of  Clouts 
in  the  difh,  put  upon  it  a  little  morefrefh,  raw,  or 
boiled  Cream,  and  then  fill  it  up  with  the  reft  of 
the  Clouts.  Arid  w'henit  is  ready  to  ferve  in,  you 
may  ftrew  a  little  Sugar  upon  it,  if  you  will  you 
may  fprinkle  in  a  little  Sugar  between  every  flake 
hr  clout  of  Cream.  If  you  keep  the  difh  thus  laid  a 

H  2,  day 


[  II2  ] 

day  longer  before  you  eat  it,  the  Cream  will  grow 
the  thicker  and  firmer.  But  if  you  keep  it,  I  think 
it  is  belt  to  be  without  Sugar  or  raw  Cream  in  it, 
and  put  them  in,  when  you  are  to  ferve  it  up. 
There  will  be  a  thin  Cream  fwimming  upon  the 
milk  of  the  Kettle  after  the  Clouts  are  taken  away,, 
which  is  very  fweet  and  pleafant  to  drink.  If  you 
fhould  let  your  Clouts  ly  longer  upon  the  milk, 
then  I  have  laid,  before  you  skim  it  off,  the  milk 
underneath  would  grow  fowre,  and  fpoil  the 
Cream  above.  If  you  put  thefe  Clouts  into  a 
Churm  with  other  Cream,  it  will  make  very  good 
butter,  fo  as  no  Sugar  have  been  put  with  it. 

My  Lord  of  St.  Albans  Crefme  F one t tee. 

Put  as  much  as  you  pleafeto  make,  of  fweet 
thick  Cream  into  a  difh,and  whip  it  With  a  bundle 
of  white  hard  rufhes  (  of  iuch  as  they  make  whisks 
to  bruih  Cloaks  )  tied  together,  till  it  come  to  be 
very  thick,  and  near  a  buttery  fubftance.  If  you 
whip  it  too ’long,  it  will  become  butter.  About  a 
good  hour  will  ferve  in  Winter.  In  Summer  it  will 
require  an  hour  atrd  half.  Do  not  put  it  in  the  dilh 
you  will  ferve  it  up  in,  till  it  be  almoft  time  to  fet 
it  upon  the  Table,  rherrftrew  fome  powdered  fine 
Sugar  in  the  bottom  of  the  difh  it  is  to- go  in,  and 
with  a  broad  fpatule  lay  your  Cream  upon  it.* 
when  half  is  laid  in,  ftrew  fome  more  fine  Sugar 
upon  it,  and  then  lay  in  the  reft  of  the  Cream  (lea¬ 
ving  behind  fome  Whey  that  will  be  in  the  bot¬ 
tom  )  and  ftrew  more  Sugar  upon  that.  You  fhould 
have  the  Sugar-box  by  you,to  ftrew  on  Sugar  from 
time  to  time,  as  you  eat  off  the  fuperficies,  that  is 
ftrewed  over  with  Sugar.  If  you  would  have  your 
whipped  Cream  light  and  frothy,  that  hath  but 

little 


[  JI3  ] 

little  fubftance  in  the  eating,  make  it  of  only  plain 
milk ;  and  if  you  would  have  it  of  a  confiftence 
between  both,"  mingle  Cream  and  Milk. 

To  make  the  Cream  Curds. 

Strain  your  Whey,  and  fet  it  on  the  fire ;  make 
a  dear  and  gentle  fire  under  your  Kettle  5  as  they 
rife,  putin  Whey,  fo  continuing  till  they  are  rea¬ 
dy  to  skim.Then  take  your  skimmer,and  put  them 
on  the  bottom  of  a  hair-fieve  j  fo  let  them  drain 
till  they  are  cold ;  then  take  them  off,  and  put 
them  into  a  Bafin,and  beat  them  with  two  or  •three 
ipoonfuls  of  Cream  and  Sugar. 

To  make  Clouted  Cream. 

Take  two  gallons  more  or  lefs  of  new  Milk,  fet 
it  upon  a  clear  fire  5  when  it  is  ready  to  boil,  put 
in  a  quart  of  fvveet  Cream,  and  take  it  off  the  fire, 
and  ftrain  it  through  a  hair-fieve  into  earthen 
pans  5  letit-ftand  two  days  and  two  nights  j  then 
take  it  off  with  a  skimmer  ;  ftrew  Sugar  on  the 
Cream,  and  ferve  it  to  the  Table. 

To  make  a  whip  Syllabub. 

Take  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  a  pint  of 
Cream,  fix  fpoonfulsof  Sack,  as  much  Sugar  as 
will  lwceten  it ;  then  take  a  Birchen-rod  and  whip 
it ;  as  it  rileth  with  froth,  skim  it,  and  put  it  into 
the  Syllabub-pot :  fo  continue  it  with  whipping 
and  skimming  till  your  Syllabub-pot  be  full. 


[  1 

To  make  a  plain  Syllabub . 

Take  a  pint  of  verjuyee  in  a  boul,  milk  the  Cow 
to  the  verjuyee  j  takeoff  the  Curd,  and  take  Tweet 
Cream,  and  beat  them  together  with  a  little  Sack 
and  Sugar  j  put  it  into  your  Syllabub-pot  ;  then 
ft rew  Sugar  on  it,  and  fo  fend  it  to  the  Table. 

Concerning  Tot  ages. 

The  ground  or  body  of  Potages  mult  always  be 
very  good  broth  of  Mutton,  V  eal,andVolaille.Now 
to  give  good  tafte,  you  vary  every  month  of  the 
year,  according  to  the  herbs  and  roots  that  are  in 
feafon.  In  Spring,  and  Summer  you  ufe  Cerfevil, 
Ofeille,  Borage,  Buglofs,  Pourpier,  Lettuce,  Chi- 
coree,  and  Cucumbers  quartered,  &c.  The  man¬ 
ner  of  ufing  them  is  to  boil  ftore  of  them  about 
half  an  hour  or  a  quarter,  in  a  pot  by  it  felf,  with 
fomc  bouillon  taken  out  of  the  great  pot;  half  an 
hour  before  dinner,  take  light  bread  well  dried 
from  all  moifture  before  the  fire;  then  cut  in  fli- 
ces,  laid  in  a  difh  over  coals,  pour  upon  it  a  ladle¬ 
ful  of  broth,  no  more  than  the  bread  can  'prefent- 
ly  drink  up  ;  which  when  it  hath  done,  put  on  an¬ 
other  ladleful,  and  flew  that,  till  it  be  drunk  up  ; 
repeat  this  three  or  four  times,^  a  good  quarter  of 
an  hour  in  all,  till  the  bread  is  dwelled  like  a  gelly 
(  if  it  be  too  long,  it  will  grow  gluey  and  flick  to 
the  difh  )  and  flrong  of  broth ;  then  fill  it  up  near 
full  with  the  fame  flrong  broth, which  having  Hew¬ 
ed  a  while,  put  on  the  broth  and  herbs,  and  your 
Capon  or  other  meat  upon  that,  and  fo  let  it  flew 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer,  then  turn  it  up. 

In  Winter,  boil  half  an  hour  a  pretty  bundle  of 

Parfley, 


[i.iy] 

Parfley,  and  half  as  much  of  Sives,  and  a  very 
little  Thyme,  and  Sweet-marjoram  ;  when  they 
have  given  their  tafte  to  the  herbs,  throw  the  bun¬ 
dle  away,  and  do  as  abovefaid  with  the  bread. 
Deeper  in  the  Winter,  Parfley-roots,  and  White- 
chicoree,jor  Navets,  or  Cabbage,  which  laft  mull 
be  put  in  at  firft,  as  loon  as  the  pot  is  skimmed  $ 
and  to  colour  the  bouillon  it  is  good  to  put  into  it 
(iooner  or  later,  according  to  the  coarlnefs  or  fine- 
nefs  of  what  you  put  in  )  Partridges  or  Wild-duck, 
or  a  flcfhy  piece  of  Beef  hall  roafted.  Green 
peafe  may  fome  of  them  be  boiled  a  pretty  while 
m  the  great  pot ;  but  others  in  a  pot  by  themfelves, 
with  fome  Bouillon  no  longer  than  as  if  they  were 
to  eat  buttered,  und  put  upon  the  dilh,  containing 
the  whole  flock  a  quarter  of  an  hour  after  the 
other  hath  flewed  a  quarter  of  an  hour  upon  the 
bread.  Sometimes  old  peafe  boiled  in  the  broth 
from  the  firft,  to  thicken  it,  but  no  Peafe  to  be 
ferved  in  with  it.  Sometimes  a  piece  of  the  bot¬ 
tom  of  a  Vcnifon-pafty,  put  in  from  the  firft.  All'o 
Venifon-bones. 

Plain  favoury  EngHjh  Pat  age. 

Make  it  of  Beef,  Mutton,  and  Veal ;  at.  laft  ad-, 
ding  a  Capon,or  Pigeons. Put  in  at  firft  a  quartered 
Onion  or  two,  fome  Oat-meal,  or  French  barley, 
fome  bottom  of  a  Venil'on-pafty  cruft ,  twenty 
whole  grains  of  Pepper  3  four  or  five  Cloves  at 
laft,  and  a  little  bundle  of  iweet  herbs,  ftore  of 
Marigold-flowers.  You  may  put  in  Parfley  or  o- 
ther  herbs. 

_  Or  make  it  with  Beef,  Mutton,  and  Veab  put¬ 
ting  in  fome  Oat-meal,  and  good  pot-herbs,  as 
Parfley,  Sorrel,  Violet-leaves,  &c. *  And  a  very 

H  4  little 


1  [»«] 

Httle  Thyme  and  Sweet-marjoram,  fcarce  to  be 
ofted  :  and  fome  Marigold-leaves  at  laft.  You 
may  begin  to  boil  it  over  night,&  let  it  ftand  warm 
all  night  j  then  make  an  end  of  boiling  it  next 
mp'rning.  It  is  well  to  put  into  the  pot,  at  firft, 
twenty  or  thirty  corns  of  whole  Pepper. 

Pot  age  de  Mane  de  Chap  on. 

Make  firft  a  very  good  bouillon,  feafoned  as  you 
like.  Put  fome  ot  it  upon  the  white  fiefh  of  a  Ca¬ 
pon,  or  Hen,  a  little  more  than  half  roafted.  Beat 
them  well  in  a  Mortar,  and  ftrain  out  all  the  juyee 
that  will  come.  You  may  put  more  broth  upon 
what  remains  in  the  ftrainer,  and  beat  again,  and 
ftrain  it  to  the  former.  Whiles  this  is  doing,  put 
fome  of  your  firft  plain  broth  upon  fome  dried 
bread  to  mittonner  well.  Let  there  be  no  more 
broth  than  juft  to  do  that.  None  to  f\yim  thin 
over.  When  you  will  ferve  the  Potage  in,pour  the 
white  liquor  upon  the  fwelled  and  gellied  bread, 
and  let  them  ftew  together  a  little  upon  the  coals. 
When  it  is  through  hot,  take  it  off,  and  fqueefe 
fome  Limon  or  Orange  into  it,  andffo  fend  it  in 
prefently.  It  mendeth  a  Bouillon  much,  to  boil  in 
ft  fome  half-roaftcd  Volaillc,  or  other  good  meat. 

To  make  Spinage-broth. 

Take  ftrong  broth,  and  boil  a  neck  of  Mutton, 
and'aMarrow-bone  in  it,  and  skim  it  very  well } 
then  put  in  half  a  pound  of  French  Barley,  and  a 
bundle  of  Sweet  herbs,  and  two  or  three  blades  of 
large  Mace.  Let  thefe  boil  very  well.  Then  mince 
half  a  peck  of  Spinage,  and  two  great  Onions  ve¬ 
ry  ftnall,  and  let  it  boil  one  hour,  or  more  $  feafon 


[  ir7  ] 

it  with  fait  as  you  pleafe,  and  fend  the  Mutton  and 
the  Marrow -bone  in  a  difh  with,  French  bread  or 
Manchet  to  the  Table. 

Ordinary  Potage. 

Take  the  flelhy  and  finewy  part  of  a  leg  of  Beef, 
crag-ends  of  necks  of  Veal  and  Mutton.  Put  them 
in  a  ten  quarts  pot,  and  fill  it  up  with  water.  Begiq 
to  boil  about  fix  a  clock  in  the  morning,  to  have 
your  Potage  ready  by  noon.  When  it  is  well  skim¬ 
med,  put  in  two  or  three  large  Onions  in  quarters, 
and  half  a  loaf  ( in  one  lump  )  of  light  French 
bread,  or  fo  much  of  the  bottom  cruft  of  aVeni- 
fon-Pafty ;  all  which  will  be  at  length  clean  dif- 
folved  in  the  broth.  In  due  time  ieafon  it  with 
Salt,  a  little  Pepper,  and  a  very  few  Cloves.  Like’* 
wife  at  a  fit  diftance,  before  it  be  ended  boiling, 
put  in  ftore  of  good  herbs,  as  in  Summer,  Borage^ 
Buglofs,Purfiane, Sorrel,  Lettuce,  Endive,  Sc  what 
elfe  you  like  j  in  Winter,  Betes,  Endive,  Parfley- 
roots.  Cabbage,  Carrots,  whole  Onions,  Leeks, 
and  what  you  can  get  or  like,  with  a  little  Sweet- 
marjoram,  and  exceeding  little  Thyme,  Order  it 
fo  that  the  broth  be  very  ftrong  and  good.  To 
which  end  you  may  after  four  hours  (or  three)  boil 
a  Hen  or  Capon  in  it ;  light  French  bread  diced, 
mult  be  taken  about  noon,  and  toafted  a  little  be¬ 
fore  the  fire,  or  crufts  of  crifp  new  French-bread  9 
lay  it  in  a  difh,  and  pour  fomc  cf  the  broth  upon 
it,  and  let  it  ftew  a  while  upon  a  Cbafing-difti. 
Then  pour  in  more  broth,  and  if  you  have  a  Fowl, 
lay  it  upon  the  bread  in  the  broth,  and  fill  it  up 
with  broth,  and  lay  the  herbs  and  roots  all  over 
and  about  it,  and  let  it  ftew  a  little  longer,  and  fo 
fierve  it  up  covered,  after  you  have  fqueefed  fome 

juyee 


[  i<8  ] 

jjuyce  of  Orange  or  Limon,  or  put  fome  Vcrjuyce 
into  it.  Or  you  may  beat  two  or  three  eggs,  with 
part  of  the  broatb,  and  lome  Vcrjuyce,or  juyee  of 
Orange ,  and  then  mingle  it  with  the  reft  of  the  ■ 
broath. 

Barley  Potagc. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  French-barley,  wafh 
it  in  three  or  four  hot  waters  ;  then  tie  it  up  in  a 
coarie  linen  cloth,  and  ftrike  it  five  or  fix  blows  a- 
gainft  the  Table  ;  for  this  will  make  it  very  ten¬ 
der.  Put  it  into  fuch  a  pot  full  of  meat,  and  water, 
as  is  faid  in  the  ordinary  potage,after  it  is  skimm’d; 
and  feafon  this  with  Salr,  Spice,  Marjoram,  and 
Thyme,  as  you  did  the  other.  An  hour  before  you 
take  it  from  the  fire,  put  into  it  a  pound  of  the  beft 
Raifinsof  the  Sun  well  wafhed  ;  at  fuch  a  diftance 
of  time,  that  they  may  be  well  plumped  and  ren¬ 
der,  but  not  boiled  to  mafh.  WhcnThe  broth  is 
enough  boiled  and  confumed,and  very  ftrong,pour 
fome  of  it  upon  fliced  dry  bread  in  a  deep  potage 
difh,  or  upon  crufts,  and  let  it  flew  a  while.  Then 
pour  on  all  the  reft  of  the  broth,  with  the  Barley 
and  Raifins,  upon  a  Capon  or  Hen,  or  a  piece  of 
Mutton  or  Veal ;  and  let  it  mittonner  a  while  up¬ 
on  the  Chafing-difh,  then  ferve  it  in. 

Stewed  Broth. 

Take  a  like  quantity  of  water  and  fldh,  as  in 
the  others,  adding  two  Marrow-bones ;  which  tie 
at  the  ends  with  pieces  of  linen,  that  the  Marrow 
may' not  melt  out,  and  make  the  broth  toojfar.  A 
while  after  it  is  skimmed,  put  into  it  a  loaf  of 
French  bread  very  thin  fliced,  (which  is  better 


[  i>9  ] 

than  grated)  and  this-  will  be  all  diifolved  in  the 
broath.  Seaion  it  in  due  time  with  Sale,  four  or  five 
flakes  of  Mace,  and  five  or  fix  Cloves ;  as  a lfo 
with  fweet  herbs  :  And  an  hour,  or  better,  before 
you  take  it  off,  put  in  Raiflns  of  the  Sun,  Prunes, 
and  Currans,  of  each  one  pound,  well  picked  and 
wafhed,  When  it  is  boiled  enough,  pour  the  broth 
inro  a  Bafin,  that  if  it  be  too  fat ,  you  may  take 
it  off.  There  fealop  it  with  a  little  Sugar,  and  four 
or  five  fpoonfuls  of  White-wine  or  Sack.  Then 
pour  it  upon  diced  bread,  and  flew  it  a  while.- 
Then  fqueefe  an  Orange,  or  Limon  (or  both)  up¬ 
on  it,  and  ferve  it  up  with  the  Marrow-bones  in  it. 

An  Englijh  Pot  age. 

Make  a  good  ftrong  broath  of  Veal  and  Mutton ; 
then  take  out  the  meat,  and  put  in  a  good  Capon 
or  Pullet :  but  firft,.  if  it  be  very  fat,  parboil  it 
a  little  to  take  away  the  oylineis  of  it,  and  then 
put  it  into  the  broath  ;  and  when  it  hath  boiled  a 
little  therein,  put  in  fomc  grated  bread,  a  bundle 
of  Iweet  herbs,  two  or  three  blades  of  Mace,  and 
a  peeled  Onion.  When  it  is  ready  to  be  difhed  up, 
take  the  yolks  of  fix  eggs,  beat  them  very  well 
with  two  or  three  fpoonfuls  of  White-wine.  Then 
take  the  Capon  out  of  the  broth,  and  thicken  it  up 
with  the  eggs,  and  fo  difh  it  up  with  the  Capon, 
and  toftes  of  White-bread  or  dices,  which  you 
pleal'e  5  and  have  ready  boiled  the  Marrow  of  two 
or  three  bones,  with  fome  tender  boiled  white  En¬ 
dive,  and  drew  it  over  the  Capon. 

Another  Potage. 

# 

A  good  Potage  for  dinner  is  thus  made:  boil 

Beef, 


[  120  | 

£ 

Beef,  Mutton,  Veal,  Volatile,  and  a  little  piece  o 
the  Lean  of  a  Gammon  of  the  bell  Bacon,  with 
fome  quartered  Onions,  (and  a  little  Garlick,  if 
you  like  it)  you  need  no  Salt,  if  you  have  Bacon  s 
but  put  in  a  little  Pepper  and  Cloves.  If  it  be  in 
the  Winter,  put  in  a  Bouquet  of  fweet  herbs, 
or  whole  Onions,  or  Roots,  or  Cabbage.  If  fea- 
fon  of  herbs,  boil  in  a  little  of  the  broth  aparr, 
fome  Lettuce,  Sorrel,  Borage,and  Buglofs,  &c.  till 
they  be  only  well  mortified.  If  you  put  in  any  gravy, 
kt  it  boil  or  flew  a  while  with  the  broth  ;  put  it  in 
due  time  upon  the  toafled  bread  to  mitt-oner,  c $c. 

If  you  boil  fome  half  rolled  meat  with  your  broth, 
it  will  be  the  better. 

Portugal  Broth ,  as  zt  was  made  for  theQueev. 

Make  verv  good  broth  with  fome  lean  of  Veal, 
Beef,  and  Mutton,  and  with  a  brawny  Hen  or 
young  Cock.  After  it  is.lbummed,  put  in  an  Oni-  . 
on  quartered,  (and  if  you  like  it,  a  Clove  of  Gar- 
lick)  a  little  Parfieyj  a  fprig  of  Thyme,  as  much 
Mint,  a  little  Balm ;  fome  Coriander-feeds  brui- 
fed.  and  a  very  little  Saffron  .•  a  little  Salt,  Pep¬ 
per,  and  a  Clove.  When  all  the  fubftance  is  boiled 
©utof  the  Meat,  and  the  broth  very  good,  you 
may  drink  it  fo,  or  pour  a  little  of  it  upon  tolled 
fliced  bread,  and  Hew  it,  till  the  bread  have  drunk 
up  all  that  broth,  then  add  a  little  more,  and  Hew; 
fo  adding  by  little  and  little-,  that  the  bread  may 
imbibe  it  and  Iwell:  whereas  if  you  drown  it  at 
once,  the  bread,  will  not  lwell,and  grow  like  gellyj 
and  thus  you  will  have  a  good  Potage.  You  may 
add  Parlley-roots  or  Leelcs,  Cabbage  or  Endive  in 
the  due  time  before  the  broth  is  ended  boiling,and 
time  enough  for  them  to  become  tender.  In  the 


t  1*1  ] 

Summer  you  may  pur  in  Lettuce.,  Sorrel,  Purflane,, 
Borage,  and  Buglofs,  or  what  other  pot-herbs you 
like.  But  green  herbs  do  rob  the  ftrength  and  vi¬ 
gor  and  cream  of  the  Potage. 

The  Queens  ordinary  Bouttton  de [ante  in  a  morn¬ 
ing,  was  thus,  A  Hen,  a  handful  of  Parfley,  a  {prig 
of  Thyme,  three  of  Spear-mint,  a  little  Balm, 
half  a  great  Onion,  a  little  Pepper,  and  Salt,  and 
a  Clove,  as  much  water  as  would  cover  the  Hen; 
and  this  boiled  to  lefs  then  a  pint,  for  one  good 
porrenger  full. 

Nourijfant  Potage  de  fame 

Fill  a  large  earthen  pot  with  water,  and  make  it 
boil  ;  then  take  out  half  the  water,  and  put  in  Beef 
and  Mutton  (fit  pieces)  and  boil  and  skim :  and  as 
foon  as  it  boils,  lealon  it  with  Salt  and  Pepper.  Af¬ 
ter  an  hour  and  half,  or  tvyo  hours,  put  in  a  Capon, 
and  four  or  five  Cloves  ;  when  it  is  within  a  good 
half  hour  of  being  boiled  enough  ,  put  in  fuch 
herbs,  as  you  intend,  as  Sorrel,  Lettuce,  Purfiane, 
Borage,  and  Buglofs,  or  green  Peafe;  and  in  the 
Winter,  Parfley- roots,  and  white  Endive,  orNa- 
vets,  (§c.  lb  pour  the  broth  upon  tolled  light 
bread,  and  let  it  flew  a  while  in  the  dilh  covered. 
You  fhould  never  put  in  frdh  water.  And  if  you 
lhould  through  the  confirming  of  the  water  by  long 
boiling,  it  mull  be  boiling  hot.  The  lefs  broth  re¬ 
mains,  the  better  is  the  Potage,  were  it  but  a  por¬ 
renger  full,  lb  that  it  would  be  ftiff  gelly  when  it 
is  cold.  It  is  good  to  put  into  the  water,  atthefirll, 
a  whole  Onion  or  two  ;  and  if  you  will,  afpoon- 
ful  of  well-beaten  orge  monde ,  or  bottom  cruft  of 
bread,  or  fome  of  the  bottom  of  a  Venifon-Pafty. 


Potage 


[  122  ] 

Potage  de  Sante, 

Make  ftrong  broth  with  a  piece  of  Beef,  Mutton, 
and  Veal,  adding  a  piece  of  the  Sinews  of  the  leg 
of  Beef,  feafbning  it  with  two  great  Onions  quar¬ 
ter  ed,fome  Cloves,  and  white  Pepper.  In  due  time 
put  in  a  Capon,  or  take  fome  broth  out  to  boil  it  in. 
Bat  before  you  put  in  the  Capon.*  take  out  lome  of 
the  broth,  in  whichboil  and  itew  Turnips  firft  pre¬ 
pared  thus.  Fry  them  in  fcalding  Butter,  till  they 
be  render  ;  then  take  them  out  with  a  holed  skim- 
mer,and  lay  them  in  a  wholed  difh  warmed,  let  in 
another  whole  difh.  When  all  the  butter  is  quite 
drained  out,  ftew  them  in  a  pipkin  in  the  broth,  as 
is  laid  above.  When  you  will  make  up  your  potage, 
put  fome  ladlefuls  of  the  broth  of  the  great  pot 
(driving  away  the  fat  with  the  ladle)  upon  dices  of 
fcorched  bread  in  a  deep  difh.  Let  this  mitconner 
a  while.  Then  lay  the  Capon  upon  it,  and  pour  the 
Turnips  and  broth  of  them  over  all;  A  Duck  in 
lieu  of  a  Capon  will  make  very  good  potage.  But 
then  it  is  belt,  to  fry  that  firft,  as  the  Turnips,  then 
boil  it. 

Potage  de  Sante. 

Make  a  goocfaad  well  feafoned  bouillon  with 
lean, Beef,  Mutton,  and  Veal,  in  which  boil  a  Ca¬ 
pon.  Boil  with  it  either  Cabbage,  or  Turnips,  or 
whole  Onions.  The  firft  two  you  put  into  the  broth 
all  over  the  difh ;  but  the  Onions  you  lay  all  round 
about  the  brim ,  when  you  ferve  it  in.  Whiles  the 
meat  is  boiling  to  make  the  boullon,  you  roll  a 
ikfhy  piece  oflkef  (without  fat)  or  two  or  three 
pound  ;  and  when  it  is  half  rofted,  fqueefe  out  all 
the  juyee,  and  put  the'  fiefh  into  the  pot  with  the 


t  1*3  1 

reft  of  the  meat  to  boil,  which  will  both  colour  and 
iirengthen  it.  When  you  find  your  Bouillon  good, 
pour,  if  into  the  difh,  where  your  bread  lieth  diced' 
(which  muft  be  very  ‘light  and  fpungy,  and  dried 
firft,  after  it  is  diced)  and  let  it  mittoner  a  little. 
Then  pour  your  gravy  of  Beef  upon  it ,  (or  of 
Mutton)  and  lay  your  Capon  upon  it,  and  lay  in 
your  roots  round  about  it. It  is  beft  to  boil  by  them- 
fdves  in  home  of  the  bouillon  in  a  pot  apart,  the 
roots  or  Onions. 

Forage  de  Same: 

Mounfieur  dc  S.  Enremom  makes  thus  his  potage 
de  fame  and  boiled  meat  for  dinner  being  very 
Valetudinary.  Put  a  knuckle  of  Ve?{l  and  a  Hen 
into  an  earthen  pipkin,  with  a  gallon  of  water  (a- 
bou  nine  of  the  Clock  forenoon)  and  boil  it  gen t- 
ly  till  you  have  skimmed  it  well.  When  no  more 
icum  rifenh  (which  will  be  in  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour)  take  out  the  Hen  (which  elfe  Would  be  tod 
much  boiled)  and  continue  boiling  gently  till  a- 
bout  half  an  hour  part  ten.  Then  put  in  the  Hen 
again,  and  a  handful  of  white  Endive  uncut  at 
length,  which  requireth  more  boiling  then  tender¬ 
er  herbs.  Near  half  an  hour  after  eleven,  put  in 
nvo  good  handfuls  of  tender  Sorrel,  Borage,  Bu- 
glofs,Lettuce,  purflane  (thefe  two  come  later  then 
the  others,  therefore  are  not  to  be  had  all  the  Win¬ 
ter)  a  handful  apiece,  a  little  Cerfevil,  and  a  little 
Beet-leaves.  When  he  is  in  pretty  good  healtc,  that 
he  may  venture  upon  more  lavory  hotter  things,  he 
puts  in  a  large  Onion  ftuck  round  with  Cloves,  and 
lometimes  a  little  bundle  of  Thyme,  and  other  hot 
lavory  herbs  ;  which  let  boil  a  good  half  hour  or 
better,  and  take  them  our,  and  throw  them  away* 

when 


t 


[  «4l 

When  you  put  in  the  tender  herbs.  About  three 
quarters  after  eleven,  have  your  diced  dried  bread 
ready  in  a  dilh,  and  pour  a  ladleful  of  the  broth  up¬ 
on  it.  Let  it  ftew  covered  upon  a  Chafing-difh. 
When  that  is  foaked  in,  put  no  more.  So  continue 
till  it  be  well  mittonned,  3c  the  bread  grown  fpun- 
gy,  and  like  a  gelly.  Then  fill  up  the  diih  with 
broth,  and  put  the  Hen  and  Veal  upon  it,  and  co¬ 
ver  them  over  with  herbs,  and  fo  ferve  it  in.  He 
keeps  of  this  broth  to  drink  at  night,  or  make 
a  Pan-cotto  ,  as  alfo  for  next  morning.  I  like 
to  add  to  this,  a  rand  of  tender  briskit  Beef,  and 
the  crag-end  of  a  neck  of  Mutton.  But  the  Beef 
muft  have  fix  hours  boiling.  So  put  it  on  with  all 
the  reft  at  fix  a  Clock.  When  it  is  weilfcummed, 
take  out  all  the  reft.  At  nine,  put  in  the  Veal  and 
Mutton,  and  thence  forwards,  as  is  laid  above.  But 
to  fo  much  meat,  and  for  fo  long  boiling,  you  muft 
have  at  leaft  three  gallons  of  water.  Either  wuy 
you  muft  boil  always  but  leifurely,  and  the  pot  co¬ 
vered  as  much  as  is  convenient,  and  feafon  it  in  due 
time  with  a  little  Salt,  as  alfo  with  Pepper,  if  you 
like  it ;  and  if  you  be  in  vigorous  health,  you  may 

Eut  a  greater  ftore  of  Onions  quartered.  The  beets 
ave  no  very  good  tafte,  peradventure  it  were 
beft  leave  them  out.  In  health  you  may  feafon  the 
Potage  with  a  little  juyce  of  Orange.  In  feafon 
green  Peafe  are  good,  alfo  Cucumbers.  In  Winter, 
Roots,  Cabbage,  Poix-chiches,  Vermicelli  at  any 
time.  You  may  ufe  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  with  fome 
of  the  broth  and  juyce  of  Oranges  or  Verjuyce, 
then  poured  upon  the  whole  quantity. 

Tea  with  Eggs. 

The  Tefuit  that  came  from  China ,  Anno  1664, 

told 


[  **f] 

told  Mr.  Waller ,  that  there  they  ufefometime^  in 
this  manner.Tonear  a  pint  of  the  infufion,take  two 
yolks  of  new  laid  eggs ,  and  beat  them  very  well 
with  as  much  fine  Sugar  as  is  fufiicient  for  this 
quantity  of  liquor  ;  when  they  are  very  well  in¬ 
corporated,  pour  your  Tea  upon  the  Eggs  and  Su¬ 
gar,  and  ftir  them  well  together.  So  drink  it  hot. 
This  is  when  you  come  home  from  attending  bufi- 
nefs  abroad,  and  are  very  hungry,  and  yet  have  not 
conveniency  to  eat  prelently  a  competent  meal. 
This  prelently  difcuifeth  and  far isfieth  all  rawnefs 
and  indigence  of  the  Itomach,  flieth  luddenly  over 
the  whole  body,  and  into  the  veins,  andftrength- 
neth  exceedingly,  and  prefervcs  one  a  good  while 
from  necefiity  creating.  Mr  .Waller  findethall  thofe 
effects  of  it  thus. 

In  thefe  parts  he  faith ,  we  let  the  hot  water 
remain  too  long  foaking  upon  the  tea,which  makes 
it  extradl  intolt  fielf  the  earthy  parts  of  the  herb. 
The  water  is  to  remain  upon  it  no  longer  then 
whiles  you  can  fay  the  Mife>  ere  Pfalm  very  leifure- 
ly.  Then  pour  it  upon  the  Sugar  ,  or  Sugar  and 
Eggs.  Thus  you  have  only  the  fpir  itual  parts  of  the 
Tea,  which  is  much  more  adtive,  penetrative,  and 
friendly  to  nature.  You  may  for  this  regard  take  a 
little  more  of  the  herb  ;  about  one  dram  of  Tea 
will  ferve  for  a  pint  of  water ;  which  makes  three 
ordinary  draughts. 

o. 

'Nourifhing  Broth. 

Make  a  very  good  gelly-broth  of  Mutton,  Veal, 
joynt-bones  of  each,"  a  Hen,  and  l'ome  bones  (with 
a  little  meat  upon  them)  of  rolled  Veal  or  Mutton, 
breaking  the  bones  that  the  Marrow  may  boil  out. 
Put  to  boil  with  thefe  fome  Barley  (firft  boiled  in 

I  ‘  water, 


[  126  ] 

water,  that  you  throw  away)  fome  Harts-horn 
rafped,  and  fome  ftoned  Raifins  of  the  Sun.  When 
the  broth  is  throughly  well  boiled,  pour  it  from  the 
Ingredients,  andlet  it  cool  and  harden  into  a  gel- 
ly:  then  take  from  it  the  fat  on  the  top,  and  the 
dregs  in  the  bottom.  To  a  porrenger  lull  of  this 
melted,  put  the  yolk  of  a  new-laid  egg  beaten  with 
the  juyce  of  an  Orange  (or  lefs,  if  you  like  it  not 
fo  fharp)  and  a  little  Sugar ;  and  let  this  ftew  gent¬ 
ly  a  little  while  all  together,  and  fo  drink  it.  Some 
flefh  of  rofted  Veal  or  Mutton,  or  Capon,  be- 
fides  the  rofted  bones,  that  have  Marrow  in  them, 
doth  much  amend  the  broth. 

The  Joynts  I  have  mentioned  above,  are  thofe 
which  the  Butchers  cut  off,  and  throw  to  their 
dogs,  from  the  ends  of  fhoulders,  legs,  and  other 
bare  long  parts,  and  have  the  finews  fticking  to 
them. 

Good  Nourishing  Pot  age. 

Take  any  bones  of  rofted  or  boiled  Beef,  from 
which  the  meat  is  never  fo  clean  eaten  and  picked  j 
as  the  Ribs,  the  Chine-bones,  the  buckler  Plate- 
bone,  Marrow-bones,  or  any  ©ther,that  you  would 
think  never  fo  dry  and  infipid.  Break  them  into 
fuch  convenient  pieces,  as  may  lie  in  your  pipkin 
or  pot ;  alfo  you  may  bruife  them.  Put  with  them 
a  good  piece  of  the  bloody  piece  of  the  throat  of 
the  Beef,  where  he  is  flicked,  add  ftoreof  water 
to  thefe.  Boil  and  feum  them ,  till  the  firft  foul 
lcurn  is  rifen  and  taken  away  ;  afterwards  feum  no 
more,  but  let  the  blood  boil  into  the  broth.  You 
may  put  a  quartered  Onion  or  two  to  them,  if  you 
like  them.  After  four  or  five  hours  boiling,  put  in 
a  good  knuckle  with  fome  of  the  kg  of  Veal  5  and 


f  !*7  )' 

if  you  pleafe,  a  crag-bscLeftwo  of  necks  of  Mur- 
ton.  Let  thefe  boil  very  Well  with  the  reft.  Yoii 
may  put  in  what  herbs  you  pleal'e,  in  due  time,  as 
Lettuce,  Sorrel,  Borage,  and  Bugiofs,  Spinage  and 
Endive,  Purflane,  &c.  and  a  bundle  of  Afreet  herbs. 
In  Winter,  Cabbage,  or  Turnips,  or  Parfley-roots, 
or  Endive,  &c.  It  will  be  done  in  two  or  three 
hours  after  the  Veal  and  Mutton  are  in.  Pour  out 
the  broth ,  and  boil  it  a  little  by  it  lelf  over  a 
Chafing-dilh,  in  fome  deep  veffel,  to  lcum  off  the 
fuperfluous  fa-t.  Then  pour  it  upon  tofted  bread 
(by  degrees,  if  you  will,  ftewingit,  togellyit) 
to  ferve  it  in  (after  it  hath  ftefred  a  little)  you  mult 
remember  to  feafon  it  with  Salt,  Pepper,  and 
Cloves,  in  the  due  time.  You  will  do  well  to  quick¬ 
en  it  vvith  fome  verjuyee,  or  juyee  of  Orange ;  or 
with  fome  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  juyees ,  if  the  broth 
be  not  over  ftrong.  Green  peafe  in  the  feafon  do 
Well  with  the  Potage.  You  may  put  in,  near  the 
beginning,  fome  bottom  of  a  peppered  Pafty  ,  or 
of  a  loaf  of  bread. 

* 

When  ten  Tlommery ; 

In  the  Weft  Countrey  they  make  a  kind  of  Fiom- 
mery  of  wheat-flower ,  which  they  judge  to  be 
more  hearty  and  pleafantthen  that  of  Oatmeal  j 
thus,  take  half  or  a  quarter  of  abulhel  of  good 
Bran  of  the  beft  Wheat  (which  containcth  the  pu- 
reft  flour  of  it,  though  little,  and  is  ufed  to  make' 
ftarch)  and  in  a  great  wooden  boul,  or  pail,  let  it 
foak  with  cold  water  upon  it  three  or  four  days. 
Then  ftrain  out  the  milky  water  from  it,  and  boil 
it  up  to  a  gelly,  or  like  ftarch.  Which  you  may  fea¬ 
fon  with  Sugar, and RofeorQrange-flower  water, 
and  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  cold,  and  gellied.  Then 

la  •  eat 


t  128  J 

car  it  with  White  or  Rhenifli-wine,  or  Cream,  or 
Milk,  or  Ale. 

Pap  of  Oat-meal . 

Beat  Oat-meal  fmall,  put  a  little  of  it  to  milk, 
and  let  it  boil  ftewingly,  till  you  fee  that  the  milk 
begins  to  thicken  with  it.  Then  ftrain  the  milk 
from  the  Oatmeal  (this  is  as  when  you  foak  or  boil 
out  the  fubftance  of  Oatmeal  with  water,  to  make 
Flommery)  then  boil  up  that  milk  to  the  height  of 
Pap,  which  fweeten  with  a  little  Sugar,  aud  put  to 
it  fome  yolks  of  Eggs  dilfolved  in  Rofe  or  Orange- 
flower-water,  ancl  let  it  mittonner  a  while  upon 
the  Chafing'-difh,  and  a  little  Butter ,  if  you  like 
it.  You  may  boil  a  littlfc  Mace  in  the  Milk. 

• 

Panado. 

Beat  a  couple  of  new  laid  eggs  in  good  clear 
broth ;  heat  this  a  little,  ftirrmg  it  all  the  while. 
Then  pour  this  upon  a  Panado  made  th^ck  of  the 
fame  broth ;  and  keep  them  a  little  upon  a  Chafing- 
difh  to  incorporate,  ftirring  them  all  the  while. 

Bar  ley -Pap , 

Boil  Barley  in  water  ufjue  ad  Pntrilaginem3\vkh  a 
flake  or  two  of  Mace,  or  quartered  Nutmeg ;  and 
when  it  is  in  a  manner  dilfolved  in  water  with  long 
boiling,  ftrain  out  all  the  Cream  or  Pap,  leaving 
the  husks  behind.  At  the  fame  time  beat  (for  one 
mefs)  two  ounces  of  blanched  Almons  with  Rofe- 
Water ;  and  when  they  are  throughly  beaten,ftra  in 
out  their  milk,  (or  you  may  put  this  to  the  Barley 
before  it  is  ftrained,  and  ftrain  them  together)  and 

put 


.[  M9  3 

put  it  to  the  Barley-pap,  and  let  them  ftevv  a  while 
together  ;  then  fweeten  it  with  Sugar  to  your  tafte* 
Or  when  you  have  boiled  the  Barley  in  water  very 
tender  as  above,  you  may  put  milk  to  it,  and  boil 
again  to  fitting  tnicknefs Then  ftrain  it,  adding 
Almonds  as  above.  Or  if  you  will,  and  your  fto- 
mach  will  bear  it,  you  may  eat  it  without  ftraining 
the  Barley  (but  the  Almonds  muft  be  ftrained)  and 
you  may  put  Butter  to  it  if  you  pleafe. 

You  may  do  the  like  with  Oatmeal  or  Rice ;  or 
put  Pine-kernels  (firft  well  watered)  with  the  Al¬ 
monds. 

Oat-meal-Pap.  Sir  John  Colladon. 

Put  beaten  Oat-meal  to  foak  an  hour  or  two  in 
milk,  as  you  do  in  water,  when  you  make  Flom- 
mery.  Then  itrain  it  out  into  a  Pofiiet  through  a 
fitting  ftrainer ;  and  if  you  judg  it  too  thick  of  the 
Oat-  meal  for  fufficient  boiling,  add  more  milk  to 
it.  Set  thisjto  boil,  (putting  then  into  it  a  lump  of 
Sugar,  about  as  big  as  a  little  Wall-nut )  and  ftir 
it  well  all  the  while,  that  it  burn  not  to.  About 
an  hours  boiling  is  fufficient ,  by  which  time  it 
fhould  be  grown  pretty  thick.  Put  then  a  good 
lump  of  frefh  butter  to  it,  which  being  well  melt¬ 
ed  and  ftirred  into  the  Pap,  and  incorporated  with 
it,  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  put  into  a  difh,  and 
ftrew  fome  fine  Sugar  upon  it,  or  mingle  fome  Su¬ 
gar  with  it  to  fweeten  the  whole  quantity.  You 
may  feafon  it  alfo  with  Rofe-water  or  Orange- 
flower-water,  or  Ambergreece,  or  fome  yolks  of 
new-laid  eggs.  You  may  put  in  a  very  little  Salt  at 
the  firft. 


.  [  13°  3 

I 

J{ice  (3  Orgcmonde 

Boil  a  quart  of  Milk  in  a  large  Pipkin ;  as  foon 
as  it  boileth  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  inftantly  put 
into  it[five  or  fix  good  fpoonfuls  of  pickedRice,and 
cover  it  clofe,  and  fo  let  it  ftand  foaking  in  the 
Chimney-corner  two  hours.  Then  let  it  on  the 
fire  again  to  make  it  flew  or  boil  fimpringly  for  an 
hour,  or  an  hour  and  half  more ,  till  it  be  enough. 
Then  put  Sugar  to  it,  and  fo  ferve  it  in. 

Orgemonde  is  done  in  the  fame  manner ;  onlyyou 
let  that  ftand  covered  and  warm  all  the  while,  du¬ 
ring  three,  four,  or  five  hours,  and  then  you  boil  it 
fimpringly  three  or  four  hours  more.  The  quantity 
mult  be  more  or  lefs ,  as  you  defire  it  thicker  or 
thinner,' which  after  oncetrial,you  will  eafily  know 
how  ro  proportion  out.  The  chief  care  muft  be, 
that  the  rife  or  barley  be  well  homogeneated  with 
the  Milk- 

Stnallage-GrueL 

In  a  Marble  Mortar  beat  great  Oatmeal  to 
meal  (which  requireth  long  beating)  then  boil  it 
three  or  four  hours  in  Spring  water.  To  a  Pofnet 
full  of  two  or  three  quarts  of  water  put  about  half 
a  Porrengcr  full  of  Oatmeal  before  it  is  beaten  ; 
for  after  beating  it  appeareth  more.  Tothisquan- 
tity  put  as  much  Smallage  as  you  buy  for  a  penny, 
which  maketh  it  ftrong  of  the  herb,and  very  green. 
Chop  the  Smallage  exceeding  fmall,  and  put  it  in  a 
good  half  hour  Before  you  arc  to  take  your  Pofnet 
from  the  fire.  You  are  to  feafon  your  Gruel  with  a 
little  fait,  at  the  due  time ,  and  you  may  put  in  a 
little  Nutmeg  and  Mace  t;o  it.  When  you  have  ta- 

A;  .  %•  <  c  1  1 rpn 


[  i3i  ] 

ken  it  from  the  fire ,  put  into  it  a  good  proportion 
of  Butter,  which  ftir  well  to  incorporate  with  the 
Gruel,  when  it  is  melted. 

About  Water-gruel. 

When  you  fet  to  the  fire  a  big  Pot  of  Oat-meal, 
(which  muft  be  but  once  cut ,  that  is,  every  corn 
cut  once  a  two)  and  water,  to  make  Water-gruel ; 
let  it  boil  long  ,  till  it  bealmoft  boiled  enough, 
then  make  it  rile  in  a  great  ebullition,  in  great  gal¬ 
loping  waves,  sand  skim  off  all  the  top  that  rifeth  ; 
which  may  be  a  third  part  of  the  whole,  and  is  the 
Cream,  and  hath  no  grofs  vifible  Oat-meal  in  it. 
Boil  that  a  while  longer  by  it  felf,  with  a  little 
Mace  and  Nutmeg,  and  feafon  it  with  Salt.  When 
it  is  enough,  take'it  off,  and  put  Sugar,  Butter,  and 
a  little  red  Rofe-water  to  it,  &  an  egg  with  a  little 
White-wine ,  if  you  like  it,  and  would  have  it 
more  nourilhing.  This  is  by  much  better  then  the 
part  which  remaineth  below  with  the  body  of  the 
Oat-meaL  Y  et  that  will  make  good  Water -gruel 
for  the  Servants. 

If  you  boil  it  more  leifurely,  you  muft  skim 
off  tne  Cream  as  it  rifeth  in  boiling  ;  elfe  it  will 
quickly  fink  down  again  to  the  reft  of  the  grofs 
Oat-meal  And  thus  you  may  have  a  finer  Cream 
then  with  hafty  boiling. 

An  excellent  and  wbolfome  Water-gruel  with  Wood - 
forrel  and  Current. 

Into  a  Pofnet  of  two  quarts  of  water,  befides  the 
due  proportion  of  beaten  Oat-mcal ,  put  two 
handfuls  of  Wood-forrel,a  little  chopped  andbrui- 
fed,  and  a  good  quantity  of  picked  and  walhed 

I  4  *  Cur- 


[  U32  1 

Currans  tied  loofely  in  a  thin  ftuffbag  ( as  a  bolter- 
cloth.)  Boil  thdb  very  well  together,  le afoning 
the  Com'pofition  in  due  time,  with  Salt,  Nutmeg, 
Mace,  or  what  elfe you pleafe,  asRofemary,  (3c. 
when  it  is  fufficiently  boiled,  ftrain  the  Oat-meal, 
and  prefs  out  all  the  juyee  and  humidity  of  the 
Currans  and  Herbs,  throwing  away  the  infipid 
husks  ;  and  feafon  it  with  Sugar  and  Butter,  and 
to  each  Porrenger  full  two  Ipoonfuls  of  Rhenifh- 
wine,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 

The  Queens  Barley-Cream. 

% 

Youmuft  make  a  good  Barley-water,  throwing 
aWay  the  three  firft  waters  as  foon  as  they  boil ; 
which  will  take  up  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
Then  you  boil  a  large  quantity  of  water  with  the 
Barley  ( which  thus  prepared  makes  the  water  no 
more  red  or  ruflet )  during  an  hours  lpace  or  more; 
(that  it  may  be  ftrong  ol  the  Barley,  pearl  Bar¬ 
ley  is  beft )  towards  the  latter  end  put  in  the  Pullet 
flaid  ,  and  the  legs  cut  off  ;  If  it  ihould  boil  too 
long,  the  emulfion  would  tafte  to  fieihy.  When 
it  is  enough,  let  the  broth  run  clear  from  the  Bar¬ 
ley  and  Pullet,  and  beat  the  Almonds  with  the 
broth,  and  ftrain  them  from  it.  Then  fweeten  it 
with  Sugar.  This  is  to  friake  at  leaft  two  Iffiglilh 
quarts  of  Emulfion.  I  fhould  like  to  put  fome  pulp 
of  Barley,  boiled  by  it  felf,  to  ftrain  with  the  Al¬ 
mond-milk,  and  if  you  will,  fome  Melon-feeds. 
You  may  put  fome  juyee  of  Limon  or  Orange  to 
it.  Alfo  lealon  it  with  Cinnamon,  and  make  the 
broth  ftronger  of  the  fielh. 

The  Queens  white  Potage  is  made  only  of  the 
white  flefti  of  Capon  beaten  with  good  broth,  and 

ftrained^ 


[?33l 

ftrained,  and  a  little  juyce  of  Limon  or  Orange  3 
but  no  Almonds. 

Preffis  NouriJJant. 

The  Queen  Mothers  Preffis  was  thus  made. Take 
unGigot  of  Mutton,  a  piece  of  Veal,  and  a  Capon, 
for  half  the  quantity  of  each  ofthefej  and  put 
them  to  roll:  with  convenient  fire,  till  they  are 
above  half  rofted,  or  rather  till  they  be  two  thirds 
rolled.  Then  take  them  off,  and  fqueefe  out  all 
their  juyce  in  a  prefs  with  ferews,  and  feum  all  the 
fat  from  it,  and  put  it  between  two  difhes  upon  a 
Chafing-difh  of  Coals,  to  boil  a  very  little,  or  ra¬ 
ther  but  to  heat  well}  for  by  then  it  is  through 
hot  the  juyce  will  be  ripened  enough  to  drink, 
whereas  before  it  was  raw  and  bloody }  then  if 
you  perceive  any  fat  to  remain  and  fwim  upon  it, 
cleanfe  it  away  with  a  Feather.  Squeefe  the  juyce 
of  an  Orange  ( through  a  holed  fpoon )  into  half  a 
Porrenger  full  of  this,  and  add  a  little  fait,  and 
drink  it.  The  Queen  ufed  this  at  nights  inftead  of 
a  Supper  }  for  when  fhe  took  this,  fhe  did  eat  no¬ 
thing  elfe.  It  is  of  great,  yet  temperate  nourifh- 
ment.  If  you  take  a  couple  of  Partridges  inftead 
of  a  Capon,  it  will  be  of- more  nourifhment,  but 
hotter.  Great  wcaknefs  and  Confumptions  have 
been  recovered  with  long  ufe  of  this,  and  ftrength 
and  long  life  continued  notably.  It  is  good  to  take 
two  or  three  fpoonfuls  of  it  in  a  good  ordinary 
bouillon.  'I  lhould  like  better  the  boiling  the  fame 
things  in  a  clofe  flagon  in  bullion te  Balneot as  my  La¬ 
dy  Kent,  and  my  Mother  uled. 


r  134  ]  • 

Broth  and  Potage. 

Monfleur  de  Bourdeaux  ufed  to  take  a  mornings  a 
broth  thus  made.  Make  a  very  good  broth  (To  as 
to  gelly,  whgn  it  is  cold)  of  a  lean  piece  of  a  leg  of 
Veal,  the  Crag-end  pf  a  neck  of  Mutton,  and  a 
Pullet,  feafoning  it  with  a  little  S^lt,  Cloves,  and 
Pepper  to  your  mind.  Beat  fome  of  it  with  a  hand¬ 
ful  of  blanched  Altnons,  and  twenty  husked  feeds 
of  Citron,  and  ftrain  it  to  the  whole :  put  Sugar 
to  it,  and  fo  drink  it  in  ay  Emulfion. 

Otherwhiles  he  would  make  a  Potage  of  the 
broth,  (made  without  fruit)  boiling  and  Hewing  it 
With  fome  light  bread. 

Pan  Cotto. 

To  make  a  Pan  Cottr ,  as  the  Cardinals  ufe  in 
jf^owejTakc  much  thinner  broth,made  of  the  fldhes 
as  above  (or  of  Mutton  alone)  and  boil  it  three 
hours  gently,  and  clofe  covered  in  una  gignatx, 
with  lumps  of  fine  light  bread  tofted  or  dried.  Vn 
Pan  grattato  is  made  the  lame  way  with  fine  light 
bread  grated.  Seafon  the  broth  of  either  lightly 
with  Salt,  and  put  in  the  Spice  at  the  laft,  when 
the  bread,  is  almoft  boiled  or  Hewed  enough.  You 
may  ufe  juyee  of  Orange  to  any  of  thefe.  Awhol- 
fome  courfe  of  diet  is,  to  eat  one  of  thefe,  or  Pana¬ 
da,  or  Cream  of  Oat-meal ,  or  Barley ,  or  two 
New-laid-eggs  for  breakfaftj  and  dine  at  four  or 
five  a  clock,  with  Capon,  or  Pullpt ,  or  Partridge, 
Sc.  beginning  your  meal  with  a  little  good  nou- 
rifhing  Potage.  Two  poched  eggs  with  a  few  fine 
dry-fryed  Collops  of  pure  Bacon,  are  not  bad  for 
breakfaft,  or  to  begin  a  meal. 


[  IJJ  ] 


My  Lord  Lumleycs  Peafe-Potagc. 

Take  two  quarts  of  Peafe,  and  put  them  into  aq 
ordinary  quantity  of  water,  and  when  they  are 
almoft  boiled,  take  out  a  pint  of  the  Peafe  whole, 
and  ftrain  all  the  reft.  A  little  before  you  take  out 
the  pint  of  Peafe,  when  they  are  all  boiling  toge¬ 
ther,  put  in  almoft  an  ounce  of  Coriander-feed 
beaten  very  fmall,  one  Onion,  fome  Mint,  Pariley, 
Winter-favory,  Sweet-marjoram,  all  minced  very 
fmall ;  when  you  have  ftrained  the  Peafe,  put  in 
the  whole  Peale  and  the  ftrained  again  into  the 
pot,  and  let  them  boil  again ,  and  alittle  before 
you  take  them  up,  put  in  half  a  pound  of  fwcet- 
outter.  You  muft  lealon  them  in  due  time,  and  in 
the  ordinary  proportion  with  Pepper  and  Salt. 

This  is  the  proportion  to  make  about  a  gallon  of 
Peafe- potage.  The  quantities  are  fet  down,  by 
guefs.  The  Coriander-feeds  are  as  much  as  you 
can  conveniently  take  in  the  hollow  of  your  hand. 
You  may  put  in  a  great  good  Onion  or  two.  A 
pretty  deal  of  Parflcy,  and  if  you  will ,  and  the 
lealon  afford  them,  you  may  add  what  you  like  of 
other  Potage-herbs,  fuch  as  they  ufe  for  their  Po- 
tages  in  France.  But  if  you  take  the  favory  herbs 
dry,  you  muft  crumble  or  beat  them  to  fmall  Pow¬ 
der  (as  you  do  the  Coriander-feed)  and  if  any  part 
of  them  be  too  big  to  pals  through,  the  ftrainer,af- 
ter  they  have  given  their  rafte  to  the  quantity,  in 
boiling  a  fufficient  while  therein,  you  put  them  a- 
way  with  the  husks  of  the  Peafe.  The  pint  of  Peafo 
that  you  referve  whole ,  is  only  to  Ihew  that  it  is 
Peafe-potage.  This  muft  be  of  the  thicknefs  of 
ordinary  Peale-potage.  For  which  thefe  proporti¬ 
ons  will  make  about-  a  gallon. 


Broth 


[13  6  ] 

j^rffth  for  f.ci  and  convalcfcent  Perfons. 

Para  Crag-end  of  a  neck  of  Mutton,  a  knuckle 
pf  Veal,  and  a  Pallet  into  a  pipkin  of  water,  with 
a  fpoonful  or  two  of  French-barley,  firft  fealded  in 
a  water  or  two.  .The  Pullet  is  putiri  after  the  other 
meat  is  well  skimmed,  and  hath  boiled  an  hour.  A 
good  hour  after  that,  put  in  a  large  quantity  of 
Sorrel,  Lettuce,  Purilane,Borage,  and  Buglofs,  and 
boil  an  hour  more,  at  ieaft  three  hours  in  all.  Be¬ 
fore  you  put  in  the  herbs,  leafon  the  broth  with 
Salt,  a  little  Pepper  and  Cloves,  ftrain  out  the 
broth  and  drink  it.  ■ 

But  for  Potage,  put  at  firfb  a  good  piece  of  fldhy 
young  Bed  with  the  reft  of  the  meat.  And  put 
not  in  your  herbs  till  half  an  hour  before  you  take 
oft  the  pot.  When  you  ufe  not  herbs,  but  Carrots 
and  Turnips,  put  in  a  little  Peny-royal  and  a  fprig 
of  Thyme.  Vary  in  the  feafon  with  green  Peal'e, 
or  Cucumber  quartered  long-wife,  or  green  fowre 
Verjuyce  grapes  ;  always  well  leafoned  with  Pep¬ 
per,  Salt,  and  Cloves.  You  pour  fome  of  the  broth 
upon  the  diced  bread  by  little  and  little,  ftewing  it 
before  you  put  the  herbs  upon  the  Potage. 

Hie  beft  way  of  ordering -your  bread  in  Potages, 
is  thus.  Take  light  fpungy  fine  white  French  bread, 
cut  only  the  crufts  into  tofts.  Toft  them  exceeding 
dry  before  the  fire,  lo  that  they  be  yellow.  Then 
put  them  hot  into  a  hot  difh,  and  pour  upon  them 
fome  very  good  ftrong  broth,  boiling  hor.  Cover 
this,  and  let  them  flew  together  gently,  not  boil ; 
and  feed  it  with  frefh  broth  ftill  as  it  ncedeth.  This 
will  make  the  bread  fwell  much,  and  become  like 
gelly. 


An 


[  1it  1 

An  excellent  Pojfet. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  Sack,  and  as  much  Rhciuffe- 
Wine,  lweeten  them  to  your  tafte  with  Sugar.  Beat 
ten  yolks  of  Eggs,  and  eight  of  whites  exceed  ¬ 
ing  well,  firft  taking  out  the  Cocks  tread,  and 
if  you  will  the  skins  of  the  yolks  ;  lweeten  thefe 
alfoand  pour  them  to  the  Wine  5  add  a  ftick  or  two 
of  Cinnamon  bruifed,  fct  this  upon  a  Chafing- 
difh  to  heat  ftrongly,  but  not  to  boil ;  but  it  mil 
begin  to  thicken.  In  the  mean  time  boil  for  a  quar¬ 
ter  of  an  hour  three  pints  of  Cream  feafoned  duly 
with  Sugar  andfome  Cinnamon  in  it.  Then  take  in 
off  from  boiling,  but  let  it  ftand  near  the  fire,  that 
it  may  continue  icalding-hot  whiles  the  Wine  is 
-  heating.  When  both  are  as  lcalding-hot  as  they  can 
be  without  boiling,  pour  the  Cream  into  the  Wine 
frdm  as  highasyipu  can.  When  all  is  in,  fet  it  up¬ 
on  the  fire  to  fte\V  for  half  an  hour.  Then  fprinkle 
all  about  the  top  of  it  the  juyce  of  a  quarter  of  a 
Limon  ;  and  if  you  will,  you  may  ftrew  powder 
of  Cinnamon  and  Sugar,  or  Ambergreece  upon  it. 

Peafe  of  thefeedy  Bads  of  Tulips. 

In  the  Spring  (about  the  beginning  of  May)  the 
dowry  lea ves"of  Tulips  do  fall  away ,  and  there 
remains  within  them  the  end  of  the  Italic,  which  in 
time  will  turn  to  feed.  Take  that  feedy  end  ( then 
very  tender)  and  pick  from  it  a  little  excrefcen- 
ces  about  it,  and  cut  it  into  fhort  pieces,  and  boil 
them  and  drefs  them  as  you  would  do  Peafe  5  and 
Ticv  will  tafte  like  Peafe,  and  be  very  favory. 


Boiled 


[»J«] 

Boiled  l^ice  dry. 

The  manner  of  boiling  Rice  to  eat  with  Butter, 
is  this.  In  a  pipkin  pour  upon  it  as  much  water  a$ 
will  fwim  a  good  fingers  bredrh  over  it.  Boil  it 
gently  till  it  be  tender,  and  all  the  water  drunk  into 
the  Rice  ;  which  may  be  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
or  lefs.Stir  it  often  with  a  wooden  fpatule  or  ipoon* 
that  it  burn  not  to  the  bottom  :  but  break  it  not. 
When  it  is  enough,  pour  it  into  a  difli,  and  (lew  it 
with  fome  butter,and  feafon  it  with  Sugar  and  Cin¬ 
namon.  This  Rice  is  to  appear  dry,  excepting  for 
the  Butter,  that  is  melted  in  it. 

Marrow  Sop  with  JVinei 

Make  thin  tofts  or  dices  of  light  French  breads 
which  dry  well,  or  toft  a  little  by  the  fire ,  then 
ioak  them  in  Canary  or  old  Malago  wine,  or  fine 
Mufcat,  and  lay  a  row  of  them  in  a  deep  difli  or 
bafin,  then  a  row  of  lumps  of  Marrow  upon  that; 
then  drew  a  little  fine  Sugar  mingled  with  fome 
powder  of  Cinnamon  and  Ambergrcce  ( and  Nut¬ 
meg,  if  you  like  it)  upon  that.  Then  another  row 
of-  lops,  &c.  repeating  this  till  the  difh  be  full  : 
and  more  Sugar,  Cinnamon  and  Amber  at  the  top, 
than  on  the  other  rows.  If  you  will ,  you  may  put 
a  row  of  ftoned  Raidns  of  the  Sun  upon  every  row 
of  Marrow.  Then  cover  the  difli,  and  pur  it  in  an 
Oven  to  bake  for  half  an  hour,  or  till  the  Marrow 
be  fuffioiently  baked. 

Capon  in  White  Broth. 

My  Lady  of  Monmouth  boiled  aCapon  with  White  ‘ 

broth 


[  139  ] 

broth  thus.  Make  reafonable  good  broth,  with  tJh£ 
crag-ends  of  Necks  of  Mutton  and  Veal  (of  which 
you  rnuft  have  fo  much  as  to  be  at  leaft  three  quarts 
of  white-broth  in  the  difh  with  the  Capon,  when 
all  is  done  5  clle  it  will  not  come  high  enough  up¬ 
on  the  Capon.)  Beat  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  blan¬ 
ched  Almons  with  three  or  four  fpoonfuls  of 
Cream,  and  if  you  will,  a  little  Role-water  ; 
then  add  fome  of  your  broth  to  it,  fo  to  draw  out 
all  their  l'ubftance,  mingling  it  with  the  reft  of  the 
broth.  Boil  your  Capon  in  fair  water  by  it  lelf  j  and 
a  Marrow-bone  or  two  by  thcmfelves  in  other  wa¬ 
ter.  Likewife  fomeChel'nuts(inftead  of  which  you 
may  ufe  Piftacoios,  or  macerated  Pine-kernels) 
and  in  other  water  lome  Skirrcts,  or  Endivc,orPar- 
fley-roots,  according  to  the  feafon.  Alfo  plump 
lome  Raiiins  of  the  Sun,  and  ftew  fome  diced 
Dates  with  Sugar  and  water.  When  all  is  ready  to 
joyn,  beat  two  or  three  new-laid  Eggs  (whites  and 
all)  with  fome  of  the  White-broth,  that  muft  then 
be  boiling,  and  mingle  it  with  the  reft ,  and  let  it 
boil  on  }  and  mingle  the  other  prepared  things 
With  it,  as  alfo  a  little  fliced  Oringiado  (from 
which  the  hard  Candy-fugar  hath  been  foak- 
ed  off  with  warm  water)  or  a  little  peel  of  Orange 
(or  lome  Limon  pickled  with  Sugar  and  Vinegar, 
Inch  as  ferves  for  Salads)  which  you  throw  avvay, 
after  it  hath  been  a  while  boiled  in  it  ;  and  put  a 
little  Sack  to  your  broth,  and  fome  Ambergrecce, 
if  you  will,  and  a  fmall  portion  of  Sugar ;  and 
laft  of  all,  put  in  the  Marrow  in  lumps  that  you 
have  knocked  out  of  the  boiled  bones.  Then  lay 
your  Capon  taken  hot  from  the  liquor  he  is  boiled 
in ,  upon  Uppers  and  dices  of  tofted  light  bread, 
and  pour  your  broth  and  mixture  upon  it,  and  co¬ 
ver  it  with  another  difti,  and  let  all  mW  together  a 

while  j 


'  [ r4°] 

while  5  then  ferve  it  up.  You  muft  remember  td 
feafon  your  broth  in  due  time  with  fait  and  fuel! 
fpices  as  you  like. 

To  Butter  Eggs  with  Cream. 

Take  a  dozen  of  Eggs,*  a  pint  of  Cream  5  beat 
them  well  together,  and  put  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  Butter  to  them,  and  fo  let  them  on  the 
lire  to  harden,  and  ftir  them,  till  they  are  as  hard 
as  you  Would  have  them. 

To  make  Cock? Ale. 

Take  eight  gallons  of  Ale,  take  a  Cock  and  boil 
him  well  5  then  take  four  pounds  of  Raifins  of  the 
Sun  well  ftoned,  two  or  three  Nutmegs,  three  or 
four  flakes  of  Mace,  half  a  pound  of  Dates ;  beat 
thele  all  in  a  Mortar,  and  put  to  them  two  quarts  of 
the  beft  Sack  :  and  when  the  Ale  hath  done  work¬ 
ing,  put  thefe  in,  and  flop  it  clofe  fix  or  leven  days, 
and  then  bottle  it ,  ana  a  month  after  you  may 
drink  it. 

\ 

To  make  Plague-water. 

Take  a  pound  of  Rue,  of  Rofemary,  Sage,  Sor¬ 
rel,  Celandine,  Mugwort,  of  the  tops  of  red  Bram- 
bles,ofPimpernel,Wild“draggons,Arimony,Balm, 
Angelica,  of  each  a  pound.  Put  thefe  Compounds 
in  a  pot,  fill  it  with  White-wine  above  the  herbs, 
io  let  it  ftand  four  days.  Then  ftill  it  for  your  ufe 
in  a  Limbeck. 


[  i-f*  i 

Another  P/ ague-water. 

Take  Rue,  Agrimony,  Wormwood,  Celandine^ 
.  Sage,  Balm,  Mugwort,  Dragons,  Pimpernel,  Ma¬ 
rigold,  Fetherfew,Burnet,Sorrel,and  Elecampane- 
roots  lcraped  and  diced  finall,  Scabious,  Wood- 
betony,  brown  May-weed,  Mints,  Avcnce,  Tor- 
mentil,  Car  duns  Bcnedictus ,  and  Rofemary  as  much 
as  any  thing  elfe,  aiid  Angelica  if  you  will.  You 
tnuft  have  like  weight  of  all  them,  except  Rofema- 
ryaforefaid,  which  you  muft  have  twice  as  much 
of  as  df  any  of  the  rcft;then  mingle  them  all  together 
and  fhrea  them  very  Email  5  then  fteep  them  in  the 
bell  White- wine  you  can  get  three  days  and  three 
nights,  ftirring  them  once  or  twicea  day^  purring 
no  more  Wine  then  will  cover  the  herbs  well ;  then 
ftill  it  in  a  common  ftill,  and  take  not  too  much  of 
the  firft  water,  and  but  a  little  of  the  fecond,  ac¬ 
cording  as  you  fed  the  ftrength,  elfe  it  will  be 
lour.  There  muft  be  but  half  fo  much  Elecam¬ 
pane  as  of  the  reft 

To  make  Hasberry-Wine. 

Take  four  gallons  of  Deal-Wine,  put  it  into  an 
earthen  jugg  $  put  to  it  four  gallons  of  Rasberries ; 
let  them  ftand  fo  infufing  feven  days  :  then  prefs  it* 
out  gently :  Then  infufe  as  many  more  Rasberries 
feven  days  longer,  and  (o  three  times  if  you  pleafej 
put  to  it  as  much  fine  Sugar  as  will  make  it  pleafanr; 
part  it  into  a  Rundlet  dole  (topped,  let  it  ftand  til), 
it  is  fine,  and  then  draw  it  into  bottles,  and  keep  ic 
till  it  be  fine. 


Te 


K 


[  H2  1 

To  keep  Quinces  all  the  year  good. 

Take  all  your  leaft  and  word  Quinces,  that  are 
found,  and  cut  them  in  pieces,  with  all  the  Cores 
and  Parings  you  make :  boil  them  more  then  an 
hour  j  then  put  the  Quinces  into  this  boiling  li¬ 
quor,  and  take  them  forth  prefently,  not  letting 
them  boil,  and  lay  them  to  cool  one  by  one  apart  3 
then  take  the  liquor  and  ftrain  it,  and  put  for  eve¬ 
ry  gallon  of  liquor  half  a  pint  of  honey ;  then 
boil  it  and  feum  it  clean  }  let  it  be  cold ,  and  then 
put  your  Qiiinces  into  a  pot  or  tub ,  that  they  be 
covered  with  the  liquor ,  and  flop  it  very  dole 
with  your  Pafte. 

To  make  a  White-Pot . 

Take  three  quarts  of  Cream,  and  put  into  it  the 
yolks  of  twelve  eggs  3  the  whites  of  four  being  firlt 
very  well  beaten  between  three  quarters  of  a 
4  pound  of  Sugar,  two  Nutmegs  grated,  a  little 
Salt ;  half  a  pound  of  Raifins  firlt  plump'd.  Thele 
being  diced  together,  cut  fome  thin  dices  of  a  dale 
Manchet ;  dry  them  in  a  dilh  againft  the  fire,  and 
lay  them  oh  the  top  of  the  Cream,  and  Ibme  Mar¬ 
row  again  upon  the  bread,  and  fo  bake  it. 

To  make  an  Hotchpot. 

Take  a  piece  of  Brisket  Beef,  a  piece  of  Mut-  • 
ton,  a  knuckle  of  Veal ,  a  good  Colander  of  Pot¬ 
herbs  ;  half  minced  Carrots,  Onions ,  and  Cab¬ 
bage  a  little  broken.  Boil  all  thefs  together  uuul 
they  be  very  thick. 


Another 


[  i43  ] 

Another  Hotchpot. 

Take  a  pot  of  two  gallons  or  more,  and  take  a 
brisket  rand  of  Beef}  any  piece  of  Mutton,  and  a 
piece  of  Veal }  put  this  with  fuffieient  water  into 
the  pot,  and  after  it  hath  boilcd,and  been  skimmed, 
put  m  a  great  Colander  full  of  ordinary  pot-herbs, 
a  piece  of  Cabbage,  all  half  cut }  a  good  quanti¬ 
ty  of  Onions  whole,  fix  Carrots  cut  and  diced, 
and  two  or  three  Pippins  cut  and  quartered.  Let 
this  boil  three  hours*  until  it  be  almoft  a  gelly,  and 
ftir  it  often*  left  it  burn. 

■  To  fie  tv  Beef. 

Take  good  fat  Beef,  dice  it  very  thin  into  finall 
pieces,  and  beat  it  well  with  the  back  of  a  Chop¬ 
ping-knife.  Then  put  it  into  a  Pipkin,  and  cover  it 
with  Wine  and  water,  and  put  unto  it  a  handful  of 
good  herbs,  and  an  Onion,  with  an  Anchoves. 
Let  it  boil  two  hours :  A  little  before  you  take  it 
up,  put  in  a  few  Marigold-flowers,  and  fo  feafon 
it  with  what  Spice  you  pleafe ,  and  ferv'e  them  up 
both  with  Uppers. 

Another  to  flew  Beef: 

Take  very  good  Beef,  and  dice  if  very  thin*  and 
beat  it  with  tine  back  of  a  knife  \  £iit  to  it  the  gra¬ 
vy  of  fome  meat,  and  foine  Wine  qr’  ftrqng  broth  ; 
fweet  herbs  a  quantity  5  let  itftew  till  it  be  very 
tender ;  feafon  it  to  your  liking,  and  Varnifit  your 
diih  with  Marigold-flowers  or  Barberries. 


To 


ft  3 


[  144  ] 

To  flew  a  Brsajl  of  Veal' 

Take  a  Breall  of  Veal  half  rolled,  and  put  it  a 
ftewing  with  fome  Wine  and  Gravy  ;  three  or  four 
yolks  of  Eggs  minced  fmall  5  a  pretty  quantity  of 
Sweet-heros  with  an  Onion, Anchoves,  or  Limon  ; 
Hick  it  either  with  Thyme  or  Limon-peels ,  and 
feafon  it  to  your  liking. 

Sauce  of  Horfe-Radifb 

Take  roots  of  Hot  fe-radifh  fcraped  clean,  and 
lay  them  to  loak  in  fair  water  for  an  hour ;  then 
rafp  them  upon  a  Grater,  and  you  fhall  have  them 
all  in  a  tender  fpungy  pap.  Put  vinegar  to  it,  and 
a  very  little  Sugar,  not  fo  much  as'tobe  tailed,  but 
to  quicken  (by  contrariety)  the  talle  of  the  other. 

The  Queens  Hotchpot. 

From  her  Efcuyer  de  Cuifme,  Mr.  la  Montague. 

The  Queen  Mothers  Hotchpot  of  Mutton  is 
thus  made.  It  is  exceeding  good  of  frelh  Beef  alfo, 
for  thole  Whofe  ftomachs  can  digell  it.  Cut  a  neck 
of  Mutton ,  crag-end  and  all  into  lleaks  (Which 
you  may  beat  if  you  will ;  but  they  will  be  very 
tender  without  beating)  and  in  the  mean  timepre- 

Eare  your  water  to  boil  in  a  Pofnct,  (  which  mull 
e  of  a  convenient  bignefs  to  have  water  enough 
to  cover  the  meat,  and  ferve  all  the  Hewing  it, 
without  needing  to  add  any  more  to  it ;  and  yet  no 
fuperfluous  water  at  laft.)  Put  your  meat  into  the 
boiling  water,  and  when  you  have  feummed  it 
clean/ nut  into  it  a  good  handful  of  Parfley,  and 
as  much  of  Sibboulets  (young  Onions,  or  Sives) 

chop- 


chopped  finally  if  you  like  to  eat  them  infubftance  $ 
other  wife  .tied  up  in  a  bouquet,  to  throw  them  a- 
way,  when  they  have  communicated  to  the  water 
all  their  tafte  ;  home  Pepper,  three  or  four  Cloves, 
and  a  little  Salt,  and  half  a  Limon  firft  pared.Thele 
mull  Itew  or  boil  limpringly,  (covered)  at  leaft 
three  or  four  hours  (a  good  deal  more,  if  Beef) 
ftirring  it  often,  that  it  burn  not  too.  A  good  hour 
before  you  intend  to  take  it  off,  put  feme  quartered 
1  urnips  to  it,  or  if  you  like  them ,  lome  Carrots. 
A  while  after  take  a  good  lump  of  Houfhold- 
bread,  bigger  than  your  lift,  cruft  and  crum,  broil 
it  upon  a  Gridiron,  that  it  be  throughly  toafted  ; 
ferape  off  the  black  burning  on  the  out-fide  ;  then 
foak  it  throughly  in  Vinegar,  and  put  this  lump  of 
toft  into  your  Pofnet  to  flew  with  it,  which  you 
take  out  and  throw  away  after  a  while.  About  a 
quarter  of  .an  hour  before  you  ferve  it  up,  melt  a 
good  lump  of  Butter  (as  much  as  a  great  egg)  till 
it  grow  red;  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  put  to 
it  a  little  fine  flower  to  thicken  it  (about  a  couple  of 
Ipoonfuls)  like  thick  pap.  Stir  them  very  well  to¬ 
gether  ;  then  fet  them  on  the  fire  again,  till  it  grow 
red,  ftirring  it  all  the  while ;  then  put  to  it  a  ladlc- 
ful  of  the  liquor  of  the  pot,  and  let  them  ftew  a 
while  together  to  incorporate,  ftirring  it  always. 
Then  pour  this  to  the  whole  fubftance  in  the  Pof¬ 
net  to  incorporate  with  all  the  liquor ,  and  fo  let 
them  ftew  a  while  together.  Then  pour  it  out  of  the 
Pofnet  into  your  dilh,  meat  and  all ;  for  it  will  be 
fo  tender ,  it  will  not  endure  taking  up  piece  by 
piece  with  your  hand.  If  you  fina  the  tafte  not 
quick  enough,  put  into  it  the  juyee  of  the  half  Li* 
mon  you  referved.  For  I  Ihould  have  laid ,  that 
when  you  put  in  the  herbs,  you  fqueefe  in  alfo  the 
juyee  of  half  a  Limon  (  d  from  the  yellow  rind^ 


which* 


[  *4«  1 

which  clfe  would  make  it  bitter )  and  throw  the  pa¬ 
red  and  fqueefed  (half  the  fubftance)  into  it  after¬ 
wards.  The  laft  things  (of  Butter.,  Bread,  Flower) 
caufe  the  liaifon  and  thickening  of  the  liquor.  If 
this  ftiould  not  be  enough,  you  may  alfo  put  a  little 
gravy  of  Mutton  into  it ;  ftirring  it  well  when  it  is 
in,left  it  curdle  in  ftewing  j  or  you  may  put  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  or  two  to  your  liaifon,  of  Butter,  Flower, 
and  ladleful  ot  broth. 

For  gravy  of  Mutton,  Roft  a  juycy  leg  of  Mut¬ 
ton  three  quarters.  Then  galh  it  in  leveral  places, 
and  prefs  out  the  juyce  by  a  fcrew-prefs. 

A  favonry  and  nonrifbing  boiled  Capon , 

Del  Conte  di  Trim ,  a  Milano. 

Take  a  fat  and  flefhy  Capon,  or  a  like  Hen,  drefs 
it  in  the  ordinary  manner ,  and  cleanfe  it  within 
irom  the  guts,  &c.  Then  put  in  the  fat  again  into 
the  belly,  and  fplit  the  bones  of  the  legs  and  wings 
(as  far  as  you  may,  not  to  deface  the  Fowl)  fo  as 
the  Marrow  may  diftil  out  of  them.  Add  a  little 
trefh  Butter  and  Marrow  to  it  5  feafon  it  with  Salt, 
Pepper, and  what  other  Spice  you  like,  as  alfo  Sa¬ 
vory  herbs.  Put  the  Capon  with  all  thele  condi¬ 
ments  into  a  large  ftrong  found  bladder  of  an  6xc 
(hrft  well  waflied  and  fcoured  with  Red-wine)  and 
ty  it  very  dole  and  fall:  to  the  top,  that  nothing 
may  oufe  out,  nor  any  water  get  in  (and  there  may 
be  void  ipace  m  the  bladder,  that  the  flefh  muft 
have  room  to  fwcll  and  ferment  in  ;  therefore  it 
muft  be  a  large  one.)  Put  this  to  boil  for  a  couple 
of  hours  in  a  kettle  of  water,  or  till  you  find  by 
touching  the  Bladder,  that  the  Capon  is  tender 
and  boiled  enough.  Then  fcrve  it  up  in  a  difh,  in 
the  Bladder  (dry  wiped)  which  when  you  cur,  you 

will 


[  147] 

'Will  find  a  precious  and  nourilhing  liquor  to  cat 
■with  bread,  and  the  Capon  will  be  lhort,  tender, 
molt  favoury ,  and  full  of  juyce,  and  very  nou- 
rifhing. 

I  conceive,  that  if  you  put  enough  Oxe-marrow, 
you  need  no  butter;  and  that  it  may  do  well  to 
add  Ambergreece,  Dates  diced  and  pithed ,  Rai- 
fins,  Currans,  and  a  little  Sugar. 

Peradventure  this  might  be  done  well  in  a  filver 
flagon  dole  luted,  fet  in  Balneo  bulliente ,  as  I  make 
the  nourifhing  broth  or  gelly  of  Mutton  or  Chick- 
•cns, 

An  excellent  Balked  Pudding. 

Slice  thin  tvvo  penny- rouls,  or  one  of  French 
bread,  the  tender  part.  Lay  it  in  a  dilh  or  pan : 
Pour  upon  it  a  quart  of  Cream,  that  hath  been 
well  boiled.  Let  it  ftandalmoft  half  an  hour,  till  it 
be  almoft  cold.  Then  ftir  the  bread  and  Cream  ve¬ 
ry  well  togethcr,_till  the  bread  be  well  broken  and 
incorporated.  (If  you  have  no  French  bread,  take 
itale  fQngfion  bread  grated )  add  to  this  two  fpoon- 
luls  of  fine  wheat-flower,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
and  the  whites  of  two  ;  a  Nutmeg  grated  final]. 
Sugar  to  your  tafte,  a  little  Salt,  and  the  Marrow  of 
two  bones  a  little  fhreded.  Stir  all  thefe  together, 
then  pour  it  into  a  dilh  greafed  over  with  Butter, 
and  let  it  uncovered  in  the  oven  to  bake.  About 
half  an  hour  will  ferve ,  and  give  the  top  a  yellow 
crifpinefs.  Before  you  put  in  the  Marrow,  put  in  a 
ouarter  of  a  pound  and  a  half  of  Raifins  of  the 
Sun,  and  as  much  of  Currans  ;  ordering  them  fo, 
that  they  may  not  fall  to  the  bottom  /but  be  all 
about  the  Pudding. 


[  ] 

My  Lady  of  Portland's  Minced  Lyes, 

Take  four  pounds  of  Beef ,  Veal,  or  Neats- 
tongucs,  and  eight  pounds  of  Suet  5  and  mince 
both  the  meat  and  Suet  very  lmall  before  you  put 
them  together.  Then  mingle  them  well  together, 
and  mince  it  very  final!,  and  put  to  it  fix' pounds  of 
Currans  wafhed  and  picked  very  iinall.  Then  take 
the  peel  of  two  Limons,  and  half  a  fcore  of  Pip¬ 
pins,  and  mince  them  very  Iinall.  Then  take  above 
an  ounce  of  Nutmegs,  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  Mace,  fome  Cloves  and  Cinnamon,  and  put 
them  together,  and  fweeten  them  with  Role-wa¬ 
ter  aqd  Sugar  5  and  when  you  are  ready  to  put 
them  into  your  pafte,  take  Citron  and  Oringiaao, 
and  llicc  them  very  thin,  and  lay  them  upon  the 
meat;  if  you  pleafe  put  Dates  upon  the  top  of 
them.  And  put  amongft  the  meat  an  ounce  of  Ca¬ 
raway-feeds.  Be  fure  you  haye  very  fine  pafte. 

My  Lady  of  Portlanatold  me  fince,  that  fhe  finds 
Neats-tongues  to  be  the  belt  flefh  for  Pyes.  Parboil 
them  firlt :  For  the  proportion  of  the  ingredients 
fhe  likes  belt  to  take  equal  parts  of  flefh,  of  Suet, 
of  Currans,  and  of  Raifins  of  the  Sun.  The  other 
things  in  proportion  as  is  laid  above.  You  may  ei¬ 
ther  put  the  Raifins  in  whole,  or  ftonc  the  greateft 
part,  and  mince  them  with  the  meat.  Keep  lome 
whole  ones  to  lay  a  bed  of  them  at  the  top  of  the 
Pyc,  when  all  is  in.  You  \vill  do  well  to  flick  the 
Candid  Orange-peel,  and  green  Citron-peel  into 
the  meat.  You  may  put  a  little  Sack  or  Greek-Mus- 
kadine  into  each  Pyc.  A  little  Amber-fugar  doth 
Well  here.  A  pound  of  flelh,  and  proportionably 
of  all  things  clfe,  is  enough  for  once  in  a  large  fa¬ 
mily. 


An - 


[  M9  ] 


Another  way  of  making  excellent  Minced  Pyes  of  my 
Lady  Portlands. 

Parboil  Neats-tongues,  t  hen  peel  and  hafh  them 
with  as  much  as  they  weigh  of  Beef-fuet,and  ftonecl 
Raifins,  and  picked  Currans.  Chop  all  exceeding 
fmall ,  that  it  be  like  Pap.  Employ  therein  at  leailt 
an  hour  more  then  ordinarily  is  ufed.  Then  min¬ 
gle  a  very  little  Sugar  with  them,  and  a  little  Wine, 
and  thruft  in  up  and  down  fome  thin  dices  ofgreen 
Candid  Citron-peel.  And  put  this  into  Coffins  of 
fine  light  well  reared  cruft.  Half  an  hours  baking 
will  be  enough.  If  you  ftrcw  a  few  Carvi  comfits  on 
the  top,  it  will  not  be  amifs. 

Minced  Pyes. 

My  Lady  Lujfcn  makes  her  fineft  Minced  Pyes  of 
Neats- tongues ;  but  fhe  holdeth  the  moft  favoury 
ones  to  be  of  Veal  and  Mutton  equal  parts  very 
fmall  minced.  Her  fineft  cruft  is  made  by  fprinkling 
t  he  flower(as  much  as  it  needeth )  with  cold  water, 
and  then  working  the  pafte  with  little  pieces  of  raw 
Butter  in  good  quantity.  So  that  fhe  ufeth  neither 
hot  water,  nor  melted  Butter  in  them  :  And  this 
makes  the  cruft  lhort  and  light.  After  all  the  meat 
and  leafoningj  and  Plumbs'and  Citron-peel,  {§c.  is 
in  the  Coffin,  fhe  puts  a  little  Ambered  Sugar  up¬ 
on  it,  thus  5  Grind  much  two  grains  of  Amber- 
greece,  and  half  a  one  of  Musk,\vith  a  little  piece 
of  hard  Loaf-Sugar.  This  will  lerve  fix  or  eight 
pyes,  ftrewed  all  over  the  top.  Then  cover  it  with 
the  lid,  and  fet  it  in  the  Oven. 


To 


[  n°  ] 

^  -To  Fpfl  fine  Meat. 

•When  the  Capon.,  Chickens.,  or  Fowl,  have  been 
-long  enough  before  the  fire*  to  be  through  hot,  and 
that  it  is  time  to  begin  to  bafte  them  ;  bafte  them 
once  all  over  very  well  with  frefh  Butter  i  then 
prefently  powder  it  all  over  very  thin  with  flower. 
This  by  continuing  turning  before  the  fire,  will 
make  a  thin  cruft,  which  will  keep  in  all  the  juyee 
of  the  meat.  Therefore  bake  no  more,  nor  do  any 
thing  to  it,  till  the  meat  be  enough  roftedi  Then 
bafte  it  well  withButter  as  before,which  will  make 
the  cruft  relent  and  fall  away  ;  which  being  done, 
and  that  the  meat  is  growing  brown  on  the  out- 
fide,  belprinkle  it  over  with  a  little  ordinary  white 
Saltingrols  grains,  and  continue  turning,  till  the 
out-fide  be  brown  enough. 

The  Queen  ufed  to  bafte  fuch  meat  with  yolks 
of  frclh  eggs  beaten  thin,  which  continue  to  do  all 
the  while  it  is  rolling. 

Savoury  Collops  of  Veal . 

Cut  a  leg  of  Veal  into  thin  collops,  and  beat 
them  well  with  the  back  of  a  knife.  Then  lay 
them  in  fioak  a  good  half  hour  in  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  and  the  whites  of  two  very  well  beaten,  and 
a  little  imall  fhreded  Thyme  mingled  with  it ;  then 
lay  them  in  the  Frying-pan,  wherein  is  boiling  But¬ 
ter,  and  pour  upon  them  the  reft  of  the  eggs,  that 
the  Collops  have  not  imbibed,  and  carry  with 
them,  and  fry  them  very  well,  turning  them  in  due 
time.  Then  pour  away  all  the  Butter,  and  make 
them  a  fauce  of  gravy  feafoned  with  Salt  and  Spice, 
and  juyee  of  Orange  at  laft  fqueel'ed  upon  them. 

A  Fri - 


[  IJi  ] 

A  Fricaje  of  Lamb-ftones ,  or  Sweet-breads,  or  Chic¬ 
kens,  or  Veal,  or  Mutton. 

Boil  the-meat  in  little  pieces  (if  Chicken,  flayd 
and  beaten)  in  the  pan  with  a  pint  of  fair  water 
vyith  due  ieafoning.  When  it  is  very  tender,  put 
fome  Butter  to  it,  and  pour  upon  it  a  liquor  made 
of  four  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  with  a  little  white 
wine  and  lome  Verjuyce ;  and  keep  this  in  motion 
over  the  fire,  till  it  be  diffidently  thickened.  Then 
pour  it  into  a  warm  diih,  and  fqueefe  fome  juyce 
of  Orange  upon  it,  and  fo  lerve  it  up.  If  you  would 
have  the  meat  firfl  made  brown  and  Hiffhle,  fry  it 
firft  with  Butter,  till  it  be  brown  on  the  out-fide  5 
then  pour  out  all  the  Butter,  and  put  water  to  it, 
in  vvhich  boil  it,  and  do  all  as  before.  If  you  like 
Onions  or  Garlick,you  may  put  fome  to  the  water. 
Flelh  broth  may  be  ufed  (both  ways)  in  ftead  of 
water,  and  maketh  it  more  favory. 

A  naurijhing  Hachy. 

Take  good  gravy  of  Mutton  or  Veal,  or  of  broth, 
with  the  fat  clean  skimmed  off  5  break  into  it  a 
couple  of  new  laid  eggs  ,  and  ftir  them  m 
it  over  a  Chafing-difh  of  coals  ;  in  the  mean  time 
mingle  fome  finall  cut  juyey  Hachy  of  Rabbet,  Ca¬ 
pon,  or  Mutton  with  another  parcel  of  like  gravy 
as  above,  till  it  be  pretty  thin.  Then  put  this  to  the 
other  upon  the  fire,  and  ftir  them  well  with  a  fpoon) 
whiles  they  heat.  When  all  is  heated  through,  it 
will  quicken  of  hidden.  You  may  put  in  at  firff  a 
little  chipping  of  crufty  bread,  if  you  will.  Seaibn 
this  with  white  Pepper,  Salt,  juyce  of  Orange,  01; 
verjuyce pf  Barberries,  or  Onion,  or  what  you  like 
befi.  A 


[  ] 

A  pint  of  gravy  (or  kfs)  four  or  five  fpoonfuls 
/©fHachyj  ant!  two  eggs,  is  a  convenient  proportion 
for  a  light  lupper. 

Suchgravy,  with  an  onion  fplit  in  tvvo;  lying  in 
k  whiles  it  is'heating,  and  a  little  Pepper  and  Salt, 
and  juyce  of  Limon  or  Orange,  ana  a  few  chip- 
pings  of  light  bread,  is  very  good  lauce  for  Par¬ 
tridges  or  Cocks. 

Excellent  Marrow  Spin  age  P.iflies. 

Take  Spinage  and  chop  it  a  little,  then  boil  it 
till  it  be  tender  ;  in  the  mean  time  make  the  beft 
rich  light  cruft  you  -an,  and  roulit  out,  and  put  a 
little  of  your  Spinage  into  it,  and  Currans  and  Su»- 
gar,  aud  ftore  cf  Lumps  of  Marrow clap  thepafte 
over  this  to  make  little  Paftics  deep  within ,  and 
fry  them  with  clarified  Butter. 

To  ptckje  Capons  my  Lady  Portland's  way. 

Take  two  large  flefhy  Capons,  not  too  fat  ; 
when  you  have  draw’d  and  trulTed  them,  lay  them 
upon  a  Chafing-difh  of  Charcoals  to  ling e  them, 
turning  them  on  all  fides,  till  the  hair  and  doun  be 
clean  linged  off.  Then  take  three  ponuds  of  good 
Lard,  and  cut  it  into  larding  pieces,  about  the 
thickneis  of  a  two- penny  cord,  and  larde  it  well, 
but  firfi  leafon  your  bits  of  Lard  with  half  an 
ounce  of  Pepper,  and  a  handful  of  Salt  ;  then 
hind  each  of  them  well  over  with  pa'ck-thr.ed,  and 
have  ready  over  the  lire  about  two  gallons  of  Beef- 
broth,  and  put  them  in  a  little  before  it  boileth  : 
when  they  boil,  and  are  clean  skimmed  j  then  put 
in  iomc  fix  Bay-leaves,  a  little  bunch  of  Thyme, 
two  ordinary  Onions  Itu-ck  fulliof  Cloves,  and  Salr, 

if' 


[  ] 

if  it  be  not  fait  enough  already  for  pickle ;  when  it 
hath  boiled  about  half  an  hour,  put  in1  another 
half  ounce  of  beaten  white  Pepper,  and  a  little  af¬ 
ter  put  in  a  quart  of  White-wine  j  fo  let  it  boil, 
until  it  hath  boiled  in  all  an  hour,  and  fo  let  it  lie 
in  the  pickle  till  you  ufe  it,  which  you  may  do  the 
next  day,  or  any  time  within  a  fortnight :  irifbead 
of  broth  you  may  ufe  water ,  which  is  better  5  in 
cafe  you  do  four  or  fix,  which  of  themfelves  will 
make  the  pickle  ftrong  enough.  If  you  will  keep 
them  above  four  days,  you  mult  make  the  pickle 
lharp  with  Vinegar. 

Very  good  Sauce  for  Partridges  or  Chickens L 

•  To  ordinary  fauce  of  fliced  or  grated  bread 
foaked  in  good  Bouillon,  with  Butter  melted  in  it, 
put  gravy  of  Mutton,  and  a  cloven  Onion  of  two 
10  ftew  with  it  Whiles  you  put  it  upon  the  lire  to 
heat  a  new.  Then  take  out  the  Onion,  and  put  hi 
fomeLimon  diced,  or  juyee  of  Limon,  and  fomc 
white  Pepper.  You  put  in  his  proportion  of  Sale 
before. 

To  make  Minced  Pyes. 

Take  two  Neats-tongues  and  boil  them ;  Hired 
them  With  Beef-fuet,  and  put  in  Cloves  and  Mace 
beaten  very  (mall,  with  Raifns,  Currans,  and  Su¬ 
gar  :  you  muft  mingle  them  before  you  put  in  your 
Suet.  Fat  double rripcsboiledtender,then  minceda 
make  very  good  Pycs. 

To  make,  a  Frcnch-Barley-PeJJct. 

Take  two  quarts  of  Milk  to  half  a  pound  of 

French1 


[*«] 

French-Barley,  boil  it  until  it  is  enough  $  whefi 
the  Milk  is  almoft  boiled  away,  put  to  it  three 
pints  of  good  Cream.  Let  it  boil  together  a 
quarter  of  an  hour ,  then  fweeten  it,  and  put  in 
Mace,  Cinnamon  in  the  beginning ,  when  you  firft 
put  in  your  Cream.  When  you  have  done  fo ,  take 
White- wine  a  pint,  or  Sack  and  White-wine  toge¬ 
ther,  of  each  half  a  pint ;  fweeten  it  as  you  love 
it  with  Sugar  5  pour  m  all  the  Cream,  but  leave 
your  Barley  behind  in  the  skillet.  This  will  make 
an  excellent  polTet  j  nothing  elfe  but  a  tender  curd 
to  the  bottom :  let  it  ftand  on  the  Coals  half  a  quar¬ 
ter  of  an  hour. 

To  make  Pujf-fiafte. 

Take  a  gill  of  cold  water,  two  whites  of  eggs, 
and  one  yolk  j  to  a  quart  of  Flower  one  pound  of 
Butter  ;  fo  roul  it  up,  but  keep  out  of  the  Flower 
fb  much  as  will  roul  it  up. 

To  make  a  Pudding  with  Puff-pafte. 

Take  a  new  French  penny-loaf,  and  dice  it  very 
thin,  and  lay  it  in  a  dilh  ,  and  take  three  pints  of 
Cream,  and  boil  it  with  a  little  Mace  and  Nutmeg 
grated  5  fweeten  it  with  a  little  Sugar,  and  add  to 
it  a  little  Salt :  then  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  cold.  Then 
take  ten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  beat  them  very  well 
with  three  or  four  Ipoonfuls  of  the  Cream  }  then 
put  it  into  the  Cream,  and  ftir  them  well  together. 
T ake  the  Marrow  of  three  bones,  lay  half  the  Mar¬ 
row  upon  the  bread  in  good  big  lumps ,  and  fome 
Citron  and  Candid  Limon,  and  what  other  fweet- 
meats  you  like.  Then  pour  it  all  upon  the  bread, 
then  put  the  reft  of  your  Marrow  on  the  top  with 

Citron 


[  *?>.] 

Citron  and  Candid  Limon.  I  forgat  to  tell  youy 
that  you  muft  lay  a  Putfipafte  at  the  bottom  of  the 
diih,  before  you  put  in  the  bread,  and  cover  it  with 
the  lame. 

To  make  Pear -Puddings* 

Take  a  cold  Turky,  ’Capon,  or  cold  Veal,  fhred 
it  very  imall,  and  put  almolt  as  much  Becf-iuct  as 
your  meat,  and  mince  it  very  imall.  Then  put  Salt 
and  Nutmeg  grated ,  halt  a' pound  of  Currans,  a 
little  grated  bread,  and  a  little  Flower.  Then  put 
in  three  yolks  ofeggs,  and  one  of  the  whites,  beat¬ 
en  very  well.  Then  take  fo  much  Cream  as  will 
wet  them  and  make  them  up  as  big  as  a  Bon-cher- 
ftien  pear  ;  and  as  you  make  them  up,  take  a  lit¬ 
tle  Flower  in  your  hand,  that  they  may  not  cling. 
Then  put  in  little  fticks  at  the  bottom  like  the  Items 
of  Pears,  or  make  them  up  in  balls.  Butter  the 
difh  very  well,  and  fend  them  up  in  the  fame  dith 
you  bake  them  in.  They  will  be  baked  in  about 
naif  an  hour.  I  think  the  difh  needeth  not  to  be 
covered  whiles  it  baketh.  You  may  make  Minced 
Pyes  thus,  and  bake  them  with  Puff-pafte  in  a  difh 
liKe  a  Florenden,  and  ufe  Marrow  inftcad  of  Suer. 

Marrow-Pudding. 

Take  the  pith  of  Beeves,  a  good  fpoonful  of  Ah 
monds  very  linall  beaten  with  Role- water ,  bear 
the  pit1-  when  the  skin  is  taken  off  very  well  with  a 
fpoon  ;  then  mingle  it  with  the  Almonds,  and  put 
in  it  fix  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  and  four  lpoon- 
fills  of  Cream  boned  and  cold,  it  muft  be  very 
thick;  put  in  a  little  Ambergreece,  and  as  much 
Sugar  as  will  lweeten  them  j  a  little  Salt,  and  the- 
ZVlarrow  of  two  good  bones  cut  in  little  pieces. 

When 


[*j<] 

When  your  Beefs-guts  are  feafoned,  fit  them  up  and 
boil  them- 

To  make  Red  Deer . 

Take  a  piece  of  the  Buttock  of  Beef,  the  leaneft 
of  it,  and  beat  it  with  a  rowling-pin  the  fpace  of 
aii  hour ,  till  you  think  you  have  broken  the  grain 
of  it,  and  have  made  it  very  open  both  to  receive 
the  fowfing-drink,  and  alfo  to  make  it  tender. 
Then  take  a  pint  of  Vinegar,  and  a  pint  of  Cla¬ 
ir  et-wine ,  and  let  it  lie  therein  two  nights,  and 
two  days.  Then  beat  a  couple  of  Nutmegs,  and 
put  them  into  the  fowfing-drink  5  then  "lard  it. 
Your  lard  muft  be  as  big  as  your  greateft  finger  for 
confirming.  Then  take  Pepper,  Cloves,  Mace,  and 
Nutmegs,  and  fealon  it  very  well  in  every  place, 
and  fo  bake  it  in  pye-pafte,  and  let  it  Hand  in  the 
Oven  fix  or  feven  hours.  And  when  it  hath  flood 
three  hours  in  your  Oven,  then  put  it  in  your  fow¬ 
fing-drink  a$  is  aforefaid  ;  and  you  may  keep  it  a 
quarter  of  a  year  if  it  be  kept  clofe. 

To  make  a  fhoulder  of  Mutton  like  Venifon. 

Save  the  blood  of  your  fheep,  and  drain  it.  Take 
grated  bread  almofl  the  quantity  of  a  penny-loaf. 
Pepper,  Thyme,  chopped  fmall ;  mingle  thefe  in¬ 
gredients  with  a  little  of  the  blood,  and  fluff  the 
Mutton.  Then  wrap  up  your  fhoulder  of  Mutton, 
and  lay  it  in  the  blood  twenty  four  hours ;  prick 
the  fhoulder  with  your  Knife,  to  let  the  blood  into 
the  flefh,  andfo  ferve  it  with  Venifon  fauce. 


Tit 


To  few  a  fiimp  of  Beef 

Take  a  Rump  of  Beef,  and  feafon  it  with  Nut 
megs  grated,  and  iome  Pepper  and  Salt  mingled 
together,  and  feafon  the  Beef  on  the  bony-fide  ; 
lay  it  in  the  pipkin  with  the  fat  fide  downward. 
Take  three  pints  of  Elder-wiire-vinegar,  and  as 
much  water,  and  three  great  Onions,  and  a  bunch 
of  Rofemary  tied  up  together :  Put  them  all  into 
a  pipkin,  and  ftew  them  three  or  four  hours  toge¬ 
ther  with  a  foft  fire,  being  covered  clofe.  Then 
dilh  it  up  upon  fippets,  blowing  off  the  fat  from 
the  Gravy,  and  fome  of  the  Gravy  put  into  the 
Beef,  and  ferve  it  up. 

To  boil  frnoakgd  Flefh. 

Monfieur  Ovsrbec  doth  tell  me,  that  when  he 
boileth  a  Gammon  of  Bacon,  or  any  fidh  falted 
and  hanged  in  the  fmoak  (as  Neats-tongues,Hung« 
beef,  and  Hogs-cheeks,  &c. )  He  putteth  into  the 
kettle  of  water  to  boil  with  them,  three  or  four 
handfuls  of  flair  de  foini  (  more  or  lefs,  according 
to  the  quantity  of  flelh  and  water)  tied  loofely  in 
a  bag  of  coarfe  cloth.  This  maketh  it  much  ten¬ 
derer,  ftiorter,  mellower,  and  of  a  finer  colour. 

A  plain  but  good  Spanijh  Oglta i 

Take  a  Rump  of  Beef,  or  fome  of  a  Brisket  or 
Buttock  cut  into  pieces,a  Loin  of  Mutton,with  the 
fuperfluous  fat  taken  off,  and  a  fieihy  piece  of  the 
Leg  of  Veal  ora  Knuckle,  a  piece  of  interlarded 
Bacon,  three  or  four  Onions  (  or  fome  Garlick  ), 
and  if  you  will,  a  Capon  or  two,  or  three  great 
'  L  tarns 


[  ifS  ] 

tame  Pigeons.  Firft  put  into  the  water  the  Beef 
and  the  Bacon ;  after  a  while  the  Mutton,  and 
Veal  and  Onions ;  but  not  the  Capon  or  Pigeons, 
till  only  fo  much  time  remain  as  will  ferve  barely 
to  boil  them  enough.  If  you  have  Garavan^as,  put 
them  in  at  the  firft,  after  they  have  been  foaked 
with  afhes  all  night  in  heat,  and  well  waihed 
with  warm  water,  after  they  are  taken  out  j  or  if 
you  will  have  Cabbage,  or  Roots,  or  Leeks,  or 
whole  Onions,  put  them  in  time  enough  to  be  fuf- 
ficiently  boiled.  You  may  at  firft  put  in  fome  crufts 
of  Bread,  or  Venifon  Pye-cruft.  It  muft  boil  in  all 
five  or  fix  hours  gently,  like  ftewing  after  it  is  well 
boiled.  A  quarter  or  half  an  hour  before  you  in-* 
tend  to  take  it  off,  take  out  a  porrenger  full  of 
broth,  and  put  to  it  fome  Pepper,  and  five  or  fix 
Cloves,  and  a  Nutmeg,  and  fome  Saffron,  and 
mingle  them  well  in  it.  Then  put  that  into  the  pot, 
and  let  it  boil  or  ftew  with  the  reft  a  while.  You 
may  put  in  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs.  Salt  muft  be 
put  in  as  foon  as  the  water  is  skimmed. 

Vuova  Lattate. 

Take  a  quart  of  good,  but  fine  broth  $  beat  with 
it  very  well  eight  new  laid  eggs  (  whites  and  all  ) 
and  putina  little  Sugar,  and  if  you  will  a  little 
Amber,  or  fome  Mace,  or  Nutmeg.  Put  all  this 
into  a  fit  Pipkin,  and  fet  this  in  a  great  one,  or  a 
Settle  of  boiling  water,  till  it  be  ftiffened  like  a 
Cuftard. 

Vuova  Sjperfa. 

When  fome  broth  is  boiling  in  a  pipkin,  pour  in¬ 
to  it  fome  eggs  well  beaten,  and  tney  will  curdle 

in 


[  *y9] 

in  a  lump,  when  they  are  enough  $  take  them  out 
with  a  holed  ladle,  and  lay  them  upon  the  bread  ia 
the  Mineltra. 

To  make  excellent  Blacl^PuddingS. 

Take  a  quart  of  Sheeps  blood,  and  a  quart  of 
Cream  5  ten  eggs,  the  yolks  and  the  whites  beaten 
well  together :  ftir  all  this  liquor  very  well,  then 
thicken  it  with  grated  bread,  and  Oatmeal  finely 
beaten,  of  each  a  like  quantity  }  Beef-fuet  finely 
fihred,  and  Marrow  in  little  lumps,  feafon  it  with 
a  little  Nutmeg,  and  Cloves  and  Mace  mingled 
with  Salt,  a  little  Sweet-marjoram,  Thyme,  and 
Penny- royal,  fhred  very  well  together,  and  mingle 
them  with  the  other  things:  Some  put  in  a  few  Cur¬ 
rans,  then  fill  them  in  cleanfed  guts,  and  boil  them 
carefully. 

A  Receipt  to  make  White-Puddings , 

Take  a  Fillet  of  Veal,  and  a  good  flelhy  Capon, 
then  half  roll  them  both,  and  take  off  their  skins  5 
which  being  done,take  only  the  wings  and  brawns 
with  an  equal  proportion  of  Veal,  which  muft  be 
fhred  very  final!,  as  is  done  for  Salfages.  To  this 
lhred  half  a  pound  of  the  belly-part  of  interlarded 
Bacon,  and  half  a  pound  of  the  fineft  leaf  ( la  panne ) 
of  an  Hog  cleared  from  the  skins  then  take  the 
yolks  of  eighteen  or  twenty  eggs,  and  the  Whites 
of  fix,  well  beaten,  with  as  much  Milk  and  Cream 
as  will  make  it  of  convenient  thicknefs  s  and 
then  feafon  it  with  Salt,  Cloves,  Nutmeg,  Mace, 
Pepper  and  Ginger,  if  youpleafe.  The  buddings 
mult  be  boiled  in  half  milk  and  half  water.  You  are 
to  ufe  final!  Guts,  fuch  as  for  white  Marrow-pud- 

L  %  dings. 


[  *to  ] 

dings,  and  they  are  to  be  cleanfed  in  the  ordinary 
manner,  and  filled  very  lankly;  for  they  will 
fwell  much  in  the  boiling,  and  break  if  they  be 
too  full. 

To  make  an  excellent  Pudding . 

Take  of  the  Tripes  of  Veal,  the  whiteft  and  fi- 
neft  you  can  find  ;  wafh  them  well,  and  let  them 
lyin  fair  Fountain  or  River  water,  till  they  do  not 
fmell  like  Tripes.  This  done,  cut  them  fo  fmall  as 
is  neceffary  to  pafs  through  a  Tunnel.  Take  alfo 
one  or  two  pounds  of  Pork,  that  hath  not  been 
falted,  and  cut  it  as  fmall  as  the  Tripes,  and  min¬ 
gle  them  all  together ;  which  leafon  with  Salt, 
white  Pepper,  Annifeeds  beaten,  and  Coriander- 
feeds  ;  Then  make  a  liafon  with  a  little  milk  and 
yolks  of  eggs  ;  and  after  all  is  well  mingled  and 
thickened,  as  it  ought  to  be,  you  mult  fill  with  it 
the  greateft  guts  of  an  Hog  that  maybe  had,  with 
a  Funnel  of  white  Iron,  having  firft  tied  the  end  of 
the  gut  below.  Do  not  fill  it  too  full,  for  fear  they 
fhould  break  in  the  boiling,  but  leave  room  enough 
for  the  flefh  to  fwell.  When  you  are  going  to  boil 
them,  put  them  into  a  kettle,  with  as  much  milk 
as  will  cover  and  boil  them  :  beirn;  boiled,letthem 
ly  in  the  liquor  till  they  are  almolt  cold,  then  take 
them  out,  and  lay  them  in  a  basket  upon  a  clean  lin- 
nen  cloth  to  cool. 

If  they  are  well  feafoned,  they  will  keep  twelve 
or  fifteen  days ;  provided  you  keep  them  in  a  good 
place,  not  moift,  nor  of  any  bad  fmell.  You  mult 
kill  turn  them,  and  remove  them  from  one  place 

to  another. 


Scotch 


[  x6x  ]  ' 

Scotch  Ctitiops. 

My  Lord  of  Briftol's  Scotch  Collops  are  thus 
made :  Take  a  leg  of  fine  fweet  Mutton,  that  •(  to 
make  it  tender  )  is  kept  as  long  as  pofiible  may  be 
without  ftinking;  in  Winter  leven  or  eight  days. 
Cut  it  into  flices  with  a  fharp  Knife  as  thin  as  pofi- 
fibly  you  can.  Then  beat  it  with  the  back  of  an  hea¬ 
vy  knife,  as  long  as  you  can,  not  breaking  it  in 
pieces.  Then  lprinkle  them  with  Salt,and  lay  them 
upon  the  Gridiron  over  a  fmall  Charcoal  fire  to 
broil,  till  you  perceive  that  fide  is  enough,and  be¬ 
fore  any  moifture  run  out  of  them  upon  the  fire. 
Then  lay  the  Collops  into  a  warm  difh  clofe  co¬ 
vered,  till  the  Gravy  be  run  out  of  them.  Then 
lay  their  other  fide  upon  the  Gridiron,  and  make 
an  end  of  broiling  them,  and  put  them  again  into 
the  difh,  where  the  former  Gravy  run  out.  Add 
to  this  more  Gravy  of  Mutton,  heightened  with 
Garlick  or  Onions,  or  Efchalots  ;  and  let  them 
ftew  a  while  together,  then  ferve  them  in  very  hot. 

They  are  alio  very  good  of  a  Jlump  of  tender 
Beef. 

To  roajl  Wild-Boar. 

At  Franckfort, when  they  roafi:  wild-Boar  (or  Bpe- 
Bucl^j  or  other  Venifon)  they  lay  it  to  loak  fix,  or 
eight,  or  ten  days  (according  to  the  thicknefs  and 
firmnefs  of  the  piece,  and  penetrability  of  it  )  in 
good  Vinegar,  wherein  is  Salt  and  Juniper-Berries 
bruifed,  ( if  you  will,  you  may  add  bruited  Garlick, 
pr  what  other  Haut-goufl  you  like  )  the  Vinegar 
coming  up  half  waytheflefh,  and  turn  it  twice  a 
day.  Then  if  you  will,  you  may  Lard  it. 


When 


I  *6*  ] 

When  it  is  roaftcd,  it  will  be  very  mallow  and 
tender.  They  do  the  like  with  a  Leg  or  other  part 
of  freih  Pork. 

Pyes. 

I  made  good  Pyes  there  with  two  Hares*  a  good 
Goofe,  and  as  much  as,  the  Goofe  is*  of  the  lean  of 
freih  good  Pork,  all  well  haihed  and  feafoned, 
then  larded  with  great  Lardons  well  feafoned,(firft 
Iprinkled  with  Vinegar  and  Wine)  and  covered 
with  Bay-leaves,  and  lheets  of  Lara  3  then  laid  in 
pafte  and  baked. 

■  I  made  alio  good  Pyes  of  Red  Deer,  larding 
Well  the  lean,  then  laying  under  it  a  thick  Plaftron 
(or  Cake  of  a  finger  thick)  of  Beef-fuet,  firft  chop¬ 
ped  fmall,  and  feafoned  well  with  Pepper  and  Salt, 
then  beaten  into  a  Cake  fit  for  the  meat.  And  an¬ 
other  fuch  Cake  upon  the  Deers  fleih,  and  ib  well 
baked  in  ftrong  cruft,  and  foaked  two  or  three 
hours  in  the  oven  after  it  was  baked  enough,  which 
required  fix  good  hours.  If  you  ufe  no  Suet, put  in 
Butter  enough  ;  as  alfo,  put  in  enough  to  nil  the 
pafte,after  it  is  baked  and  half  cold,by  a  hole  made 
in  the  top,  when  it  is  near  half  baked. 

Baked  Venifon. 

My  Lady  of  Newport  bakes  her  Venifon  in  a  di/h 
thus;  A  fide  or  an  hanch  ferves  for  two  diihes.  Sea- 
fon  it  as  for  a  Pafty.  Line  the  difh  with  a  thin  cruft, 
of  good  pure  pafte,  but  make  it  pretty  thick  up¬ 
wards  towards  the  brim,  that  it  may  be  there  pud¬ 
ding-cruft.  Lay  then  the  Venifon  in  a  round  piece  ■ 
upon  the  Pafte  in  the  difh,  that  muft  not  fill  it  up 
to  touch  the  Pudding,  but  lie  at  eafej  put  over  it 

a  co- 


[  *6}  ] 

a  cover,  and  let  it  over-reach  upon  thebrim  with 
fome  carved  Pafty-work  to  grace  it,  which  muft  go 
up  with  a  border  like  a  lace  crowing  a  little  way 
upwards  upon  the  cover,  which  is  a  little  arched 
up,  and  hath  a  little  hole  in  the  top  to  pour  in  un¬ 
to  the  meat  the  ftrOng  well-feafoned  broth,  that  is 
made  of  the  broken  bones,  and  remaining  lean  flelh 
of  the  Venifon.  Put  a  litttle  pure  Butter  or  Beef- 
fuet  to  the  Venifon,  before  you  put  the  cover  on, 
unlefs  it  be  exceeding  fat.  This  muft  bake  five  or 
fix  hours,  or  more,  as  an  ordinary  Pafty.  An  hour, 
or  an  hour  and  half  before  you  take  it  out  to  ferve 
it  up,  open  the  Oven,  and  draw  out  the  dilh  far 
enough  ro  pour  in  at  the  little  hole  of  the  cover 
the  ftrong  aecodtion  (in  fteadof  deco&ion  in  wa- 
ter,you  may  boil  it  by  it  felfin  Balneo  in  duplici  vafe ; 
or  bake  it  in  a  pot  with  broth  and  gravy  of  Mut¬ 
ton  )  of  the  broken  bones  and  flelh.  Then  let  it  in 
again,  to  make  an  end  of  his  baking  and  foaking. 
The  meat  within  (even  the  lean)  will  be  exceeding 
tender  and  like  a  gelly  ;  fo  that  you  may  cut  all  of 
it  with  a  fpoon.  If  you  bake  a  fide  at  once  in  two 
difhes,  the  one  will  be  very  good  to  keep  cold  ; 
and  when  it  is  fo,  you  may,  if  you  pleafe,  bake  it 
again  to  have  it  hot ;  not  fo  long  as  at  firft ,  but 
enough  to  have  it  all  perfectly  heated  through.  She 
bakes  thus  in  Pewter-dilhes  of  a  large  fize. 

Mutton  or  Veal  may  be  thus  baked  with  their 
due  feafoning ;  as  with  Onions ,  or  Onions  and 
Apples,  or  Larding,or  a  Caudle,G5c.Sweet-breads, 
Beatifies,  Champignons,  Treufles,  &c. 

An  excellent  way  of  making  'Mutton-Steaks. 

Cut  a  rack  of  Mutton  into  tender  Steaks,  rib 
fey  r  ib,  and  beat  the  fielh  well  with  the  back  of 

L  4  ,  a  knife 


I  ] 

a  knife.  Then  have  a  compofition  ready,  made  of 
crumbs  of  ftale  manchet  grated  final],  and  a  little 
Salt  (a  fit  proportion  to  fait  the  meat)  and  a  lefs 
quantity  of  white  Pepper.  Cover  over  on  both 
fides  all  the  flefh  with  this,  pretty  thick,  prefiing  it 
on  with  your  fingers  and  flat  knife,  to  make  it  lie 
on.  Then  lay  the  Steaks  upon  a  Gridiron  over  a 
very  quick  fire  (for  herein  confifteth  the  well  do¬ 
ing)  and  when  the  fire  hath  pierced  in  a  little  on 
the  one  fide,  turn  the  other,  before  any  juyee  drop 
down  through  the  Powder.  This  turning  the  fteaks 
will  make  the  juyee  run  back  the  other  way  ;  and 
before  it  run  through,  and  drop  through  this  fide, 
you  muft  turn  again  the  other  fide  :  doing  fo  till 
the  Steaks  be  broiled  enough.  Thus  you  keep  all 
the  juyee  in  them,  fo  that  when  you  go  to  eat  them 
(which  rnuft  be  prefently,  as  they  are  taken  from 
the  fire)  abundance  of  juyee  runneth  out  as  foon 
as  your  knife  entreth  into  the  flefh.  The  fame  per- 
fonthat  doth  this,  rofteth  a  Capon  fo  as  to  keep 
all  its  juyee  in  it.  The  myftery  of  it  is  in  turning  it  fo 
quick,  that  nothing  can  drop  down.  This  maketh 
it  the  longer  in  rofting.  But  when  you  cut  it  up,  the 
juyee  runneth  out,  as  out  of  ajuycyleg  of  Mut* 
ton  i  and  it  is  excellent  meat. 

Excellent  good  Co  Hop. 

Take  two  legs  of  flefhy  juyey  tender  yonng  Mut¬ 
ton,  cut  them  into  as  thin  flices  as  may  be.  Beat 
them  with  the  back  of  a  thick  knife,  with  fmarr, 
but  gentle  blows,  for  a  long  time ,  on  both  fides : 
And  theftrokes  eroding  one  another  every  way,  fo 
that  the  Collops  be  fo  fhorr,  that  they  fcarce  hang 
together.  This  quantity  is  near  two  hours  beating. 
Then  lay  them  in  a  clean  frying-pan ,  and  hold 

them 


[  1 

them  over  a  fmart  fire ;  And  it  is  beft  to  have  a  fit 
cover  for  the  pan,  with  an  handle  at  the  top  of  it, 
to  take  it  off  when  you  will.  Let  them  fry  fo  co¬ 
vered,  till  the  fide  next  the  pan  be  enough  ;  the» 
turn  the  other  fide,  and  let  them  fry  till  it  be 
enough.  Then  pour  them  with  all  the  Gravy 
(which  will  be  much )  into  a  hot  difh,  which  cover 
with  another  hot  one,  and  fo  ferve  it  in  to  eat  pre- 
fently.  You  muft  feafon  the  Collops  with  Salt 
fprinkled  upon  them ,  either  at  the  latter  end  of 
beating  them,  or  whiles  they  fry.  And  if  you  love 
the  tafte  of  Onions,  you  may  rub  the  pan  well 
over  with  one  before  you  lay  m  the  Steaks  or  Col¬ 
lops  or  when  they  are  in  the  dilh,  you  may  beat 
fome  Onion-water  amongft  the  Gravy.  You  may 
alfo  put  a  little  frefh  Butter  into  the  pan  to  melt, 
and  line  it  all  over  before  you  put  in  the  Collops, 
that  you  maybe  fure  they  burn  not  to  the  pan. 
You  muft  put  no  more  Collops  into  one  pan  at 
once,  than  meerly  to  cover  it  with  one  Lare,  that 
the  Collops  may  not  lie  one  upon  another. 

Black.  Puddings, 

Take  three  pints  of  Cream,  and  boil  it  with  a 
Nutmeg  quartered,  three  or  four  leaves  of  large 
Mace,  and  a  flick  of  Cinnamon.  Then  take  half 
a  pound  of  Almonds,  beat  them  and  ftrain  them 
with  the  Cream.  Then  take  a  few  fine  herbs,  beat 
them  and  ftrein  them  to  the  Cream,  which  came 
from  the  Almonds.  Then  take  two  or  three  fpoon- 
fuls  (or  more)  of  Chickens  blood,  and  two  or  three 
fpoonfulsof  grated  bread,  and  the  Marrow  of  fix 
or  feven  bones,  with  Sugar  and  Salt,  and  a  little 
Rofe-water.  Mix  all  together,  and  fill  your  Pud¬ 
dings.  You  may  put  in  eight  or  ten  eggs,  with  the 

white 


[  z66  ] 

whites  of  two  well-beaten.  Put  in  feme  Musk  or 
Ambergreece. 

% 

To  mike  Pith  Puddings 

Take  a  good  quantity  of  the  pith  of  Oxen,  and 
Jet  it  lie  all  night  in  water  to  foak  out  the  blood. 
The  next  morning,  ftrip  it  out  of  the  skin,  and  fo 
beat  it  with  the  back  of  a  lpoon,  till  it  be  as  line 
as  pap  :  You  muft  beat  a  little  Rofe-water  with  it. 
Then  take  three  pints  of  good  thick  Cream ,  and 
boil  it  with  a  Nutmeg  quartered,  three  or  four 
leaves  of  large  Mace,  and  a  ftick  of  Cinnamon, 
Then  take  half  a  pound  of  the  beft  Jordan  Al¬ 
monds.  Blanch  them  in  cold  water  all  night ;  then 
beat  them  in  a  Mortar  with  fome  of  your  Cream  y 
and  as  they  grow  dry,  ftill  put  in  more  Cream ;  and 
when  they  be  well  beaten,  ftrain  the  Cream  from 
the  Almonds  into  the  Pith.  Then  beat  them  ftill , 
until  the  Cream  be  done,  and  ftrain  it  ftill  to  the 
pith.  Then  take  the  yolks' of  ten  eggs,  with  the 
Whites  of  two ;  beat  them  well,  and  put  them  to 
your  former  Ingredients.  Then  take  a  lpoonful  of 
grated  bread.  Mingle  all  thefe  together,  with  half 
a  pound  of  fine  Sugar,  the  Marrow  of  fix  or  feven 
bones,  and  fome  Salt,  and  io  fill  your  Puddings. 

They  will  be  much  the  better,  if  you  put  in  fome 
Ambergreece. 

Byd-Hcrrings  Broyled. 

My  Lord  /Uibigny  eats  Red-herrings  thus  broi¬ 
led.  After  they  are  opened  and  prepared  for  the 
Gridiron,  foak  them  (both  fides)  in  Oyl  and  Vi¬ 
negar  beaten  together  in  pretty  quantity  in  aliitle 
<d:fo.  Then  broil  them  till  they  are  hot  through. 


[  1*7.  ] 

but  not  dry.  Then  foak  them  again  in  the  fame  li* 
quor  as  before,  and  broil  them  a  fecond  time.  You 
may  foak  and  broil  them  again  a  third  time;  bur 
twice  may  ferve.  They  will  be  then  very  Ihort,  and 
crifp,  apd  favory.  Lay  them  upon  your  Sailer,  and 
you  may  alfo  put  upon  it  theOyland  Vinegar  you 
foaked  the  Herrings  in. 

An  Oat-meal  Pudding. 

Take  a  pint  of  Milk,  and  put  to  it  a  pint  of  large 
or  midling  Oat-meal ;  let  it  ftand  upon  the  fire  un¬ 
til  it  be  fealding  hot :  then  let  it  ftand  by  and  foak 
about  half  an  hour :  then  pick  a  few  fweet  herbs 
and  ftired  them,  and  put  in  half  a  pound  of  Cur¬ 
rans,  and  half  a  pound  of  Suet ,  and  about  two 
fpoonfulsof  Sugar,  and  three  or  four  eggs.  Thefe 
put  into  a  bag,  and  boiled,  do  make  a  very  good 
pudding. 

To  make  Pear-Puddings. 

Take  a  cold  Capon,  or  half  rofted,  which  is 
much  better  ;then  take  Suet,  ftired  very  fmall,  the 
meat  and  Suet  together ;  then  half  as  much  grated 
bread,  two  fpoonfuls  of  Flower,  Nutmegs,  Cloves 
and  Mace ;  Sugar  as  much  as  you  pleafe ;  half  a 
pound  of  Currans  ;  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and 
the  white  of  one ;  and  as  much  Cream  as  will 
make  it  up  in  a  ftiff  Pafte.  Then  make  it  up  in  fa- 
Ihion  of  a  pear,  a  ftick  of  Cinnamon  for  the  ftalk, 
and  the  head  of  a  Clove. 

To  make  Caul-Puddings. 

Take  three  Marrow-bones,  flicethem,  water 

the 


[I«] 

the  Marrow  over  night ,  to  take  away  the  blood. 
Then  take  the  fmalieft  of  the  Marrow,  and  put  it 
into  the  Puddings,  with  a  penny-loaf  grated ,  a 
ipoonfu]  of  Flower,  and  Spice  as  before ;  a  quar¬ 
ter  of  a  pound  of  Currans  ;  Sugar  as  much  as  you 
fdeafe>  Four  Eggs,  two  whites  taken  away.  Cream 
as  much  as  will  make  it  as  ftiff  as  other  Puddings. 
Stuff  the  Caul  of  Veal  cut  mo  the  bignefs  of  little 
Hogs-puddings ;  you  muft  few  them  all  to  one 
endj,  and  fo  nil  them  ;  then  few  up  the  other  end,- 
and  when  they  are  boiled ,  take  hold  of  the  thred, 
and  they  will  all  come  out.  You  muft  boil  them  in 
half  White-wine  and  half  water,  with  one  large 
Mace,  a  few  Currans,  afpoonfulof  the  Pud  din  g- 
fhiff,  the  Marrow  in  whole  lumps  ;  all  this  firft 
boiled  up,  then  put  in  your  Puddings,  and  when 
half  boiled,  put  in  your  Marrow.  One  hour  will 
boil  them.  Serve  them  up  with  Sippets,  and  no 
more  liquor,  then  will  ferve  them  up:  you  muft 
put  Salt  in  all  the  Puddings. 

A  Barley  Pudding. 

Take  two  ounces  of  Barky  pick’d  and  wafhed, 
boil  it  in  milk  till  it  is  tender  ;  then  let  your  milk 
run  from  it:  then  take  half  a  pint  of  Cream,  and 
fix  fponfuls  of  the  boiled  Barley  ;  eight  fpoon- 
fuls  of  grated  bread,  four  eggs,  two  whites  taken 
away.  Spice  as  you  pleafe,  and.  Sugar  and  Salt  as 
you  think  fit,  one  Marrow-bone,  put  in  the  lumps 
as  whole  as  you  can  :  Then  make  Puft-pafte,  and 
rowl  a  thin  Iheet  of  it,  and  lay  it  in  a  difh.  Then 
take  a  piece  of  green  Citron  fliced  thin,  lay  it  all 
over  the  difh.  Then  take  Cream,  grated  bread,your 
Spice,  Sugar,  Eggs,  and  Salt;  beat  all  thefe  very 
well  together  half  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  pour  it 


onyoufdilh  where  Citron  is,  then  cover  it  over 
with  puff-pafte,and  let  it  bake  in  a  quick  oven  three 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Scrape  Sugar  on  it*  andferve 
it  up. 

A  Pippin-Pudding. 

Take  Pippins,  pare  them,  and  cut  off  the  tbps  of 
them  pretty  deep.  Then  take  out  as  much  of  your 
Apple  as  you  can  take  without  breaking  your  Ap¬ 
ple,  then  fill  your  Apple  with  pudding-ftuff,  made 
with  Cream,  a  little  Sack,  Marrow,  grated  Bread 
Eggs,  Sugar,  Spice,  and  Salt.  Make  it  pretty  ftifiF. 
Put  it  into  the  Pippins,  lay  the  tops  of  the  Pip¬ 
pins  upon  the  Pippins  again,  ftick  it  through  with 
a  ftick  of  Cinnamon :  Set  as  many  upright  in  your 
difh  as  you  can,  and  fo  fill  it  up  with  Cream,  and 
fweeten  it  with  Sugar  and  Mace,  and  ftew  them 
between  two  diflies. 

To  make  a  baked  Oat-meal- Pudding. 

Take  middle  Oat-meal,  pick  it  very  clean,  fteep 
it  all  night  in  Cream,  half  a  pint  of  Oat-meal  to  a 
quart  of  Cream,  make  your  Cream  fealding  hot 
before  you  put  in  your  Oat-meal,  fo  cover  it  dole. 
Take  a  good  handful  of  Penny-royal,  Hired  it  ve¬ 
ry  fmalf,  with  a  pound  of  Beef-filet.  Put  it  to  your 
Cream  with  half  a  pound  of  Raifins  of  the  Sun, 
Sugar,  Spice,  four  or  five  eggs,  two  whites  away. 
So  bake  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour  $  and  then 
ferve  it  up. 

A  plain  Quaking  Pudding. 

Take  about  three  pints  of  new  morning  Milk, 

and 


[  170  ] 

arid  fix  or  feven  new-laid  eggs,  putting  away  half 
the  whites,  and  two  fpoonfuls  offine  flower,about 
a  quarter  of  a  Nutmeg  grated,  and  about  a  quar¬ 
ter  of  a  pound  of  Sugar  (more  or  lefs,  according 
to  your  tafte. )  After  ail  thefe  are  perfectly  mingled 
and  incorporated  together  ?  put  the  matter  into  a 
fit  bag,  and  fo  put  it  into  boiling  vvater,  and  boil  it 
up  with  a  quick  fire.  If  you  boil  it  too  long,  the 
milk  will  turn  to  whey  in  the  body  or  fubftance  of 
the  Pudding,  and  there  will  beaflimy  gelly  all 
about  the  outfide.  But  in  about  half  an  hour  ,  it 
Will  be  tenderly  firm ,  and  of  an  uiform  confift- 
ence  all  over.  You  need  not  put  in  any  Butter  or 
Marrow ,  or  Suet ,  or  any  Spice ,  but  the  fmall 
proportion  of  Nutmeg  fet  down,  nor  grated  bread. 
For  the  Sauce,  you  pour  upon  it  thickened  melted 
Butter,  beaten  with  a  little  Sack,  or  Orange-flower 
water,  and  Sugar ;  or  compounded  in  what  man¬ 
ner  youpleafe,  as  in  other  fuch  Puddings. 

% 

A  good  Quaking  Bag- Pudding. 

Set  a  quart  of  good  morning  Milk  upon  the  fire, 
having  feafoned  it  with  Salt,  and  fiiced  or  grated 
Nutmeg.  When  it  beginneth  to  boil,  take  it  from 
the  fire,  and  put  into  it  four  penny  Manchets  of 
light  French  bread  fiiced  very  thin.  (If  it  were 
.Kjngftene-hre,n&3 Which  is  firmer,it  muft  be  grated) 
and  a  lump  of  fweet -butter  as  big  as  a  Wall-nut, 
and  enough  Sugar  to  feafon  it  j  and  cover  the  Pof- 
net  with  a  plate  to  keep  the  heat  in,  that  the  bread 
may  foak  perfe&ly.  Whiles  this  ftandeth  thus, 
take  ten  yolks  of  new-laid  eggs,  with  one  white, 
and  beat  them  very  well  with  a  l'poonful  or  two  of 
Milk;  and  when  the  Milk  is  cooled  enough,  pour 
it  (with  the  bread  in  it)  into  the  bafon,  where  the 

beaten 


[  J7»  1 

beaten  eggs  are,  (which  likewife  fhould  firft  be 
fweetncd  with  Sugar  to  their  proportion)  and  put 
about  three  fpoonfuls  of  fine  flower  into  the  com- 
pofition,  and  knead  them  well  together.  If  you 
will  you  may  put  in  a  fpoonful  of  Sack  or  Musks- 
dine,,  and  Ambered  Sugar,  working  all  well  toge¬ 
ther  5  as  alfo  Come  lumps  of  Marrow  or  Suet  Ihred 
very  final  1 :  but  it  will  be  very  good  without  either 
of  thefe.  Then  put  this  mixtion  into  a  deep  wood¬ 
en  dilh  (like  a  great  Butter-box)  which  muft  firft 
be  on  the  infide  a  little  grcafed  with  Butter,  and 
a  little  Flower  fprinkled  thereon,  to  fave  the  Pud¬ 
ding  from  flicking  to  the  fides  of  the  dilh.  Then 
put  a  linnen  clothor  Handkerchief  over  the  mouth 
of  the  dilh,  and  reverie  the  mouth  downwards,  fi> 
that  you  may  tie  the  Napkin  dole  with  two  knots 
by  the  corners  crofs,  or  with  a  ftrong  thrcd  upon 
the  bottom  of  the  dilh,  then  turned  upwards  5  all 
which  is,  that  the  matter  may  not  get  out,  and  yet 
the  boiling  water  get  through  the  linnen  upon  it  on 
one  fide  enough  to  bake  the  Pudding  fufliciently.- 
Put  the  wooden  dilh  thus  filled  and  tied  up,  into  a 
great  Polhet  or  little  kettle  of  boiling  water.  The 
fafter  it  boils,  the  better  it  will  be.  "The  dilh  will* 
turn  and  rowl  up  and  down  in  the  water,  as  it  gal¬ 
loped!  in  boiling.  An  hours  boiling  is  fuflicient. 
Then  untie  your  linnen,  and  take  it  off,  and  rcverfe 
the  mouth  of  the  dilh  downwards  into  the  filver 
dilh  you  will  ferve  it  up  in  .*  wherein  is  fufiicienn 
melted  Butter  thickened  with  beating,  and  fweet- 
ned  to  your  tafte  with  Sugar,  to  ferve  for  Sauce. 
You  may  beat  a  little  Sack  or  Muskadine,  or  Rofe,. 
or  Orange- flower-water  with  the  Sauce  ;  a  little 
of  any  of  which  may  alfo  go  into  the,  compofition 
of  the  Pudding,  If  you  put  in  more  Flower,, 
or  more  than  one  white  of  egg  to  this  pro¬ 
portion. 


[  ] 


J;ion.>  it  will  bind  the  Padding  too  clofe  and 


In  plain  Bag-puddings  it  makes  them  much  more 
favoury,  to  put  into  them  a  little  Penny-royal  fhre- 
ded  very  fmall,  as  alfo  other  fweet  herbs.  You  muft 
put  in  fo  little,  as  not  to  tafte  ftrong  of  them,  but 
only  to  quicken  the  other  flat  ingredients. 


Another  halted  Pudding . 


Take  a  pint  and  half  of  good  fweet  Cream,  fet 
it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  juft  boil  up ,  take  a  penny 
Mancher,  not  too  new,  cut  off  the  cruft,  and  dice 
it  very  thin ,  put  it  into  a  clean  earthen  pan ,  and 
pour  the  Cream  upon  it ,  and  cover  it  very  clofe 
an  hour  or  there  abouts,  to  fteep  the  bread ;  when 
it  is  fteeped  enough  >  take  four  new  laid  eggs, 
yolks  ana  whites ,  beat  them  with  a  fpoonful  of 
Kofe-water,  and  two  of  Sack  ;  grate  into  it  half  a 
Nutmeg,  and  put  into  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
good  white  Sugar  finely  beaten ;  ftir  all  this  toge- 
ther  with  the  Cream  and  Bread  ;  then  fhred  very 
fmall  half  a  pound  of  good  Beef  kidney-fuet,  and 
put  this  to  the  reft,  ana  mingle  them  very  well  to¬ 
gether  with  a  dice  or  fpdon  ;  then  fi ze  your  difh, 
that  you  intend  to  bake  it  in,  and  rub  the  bottom 
of  it  with  a  little  fweet  Butter  j  then  put  your 
pudding  into  it,  and  take  the  Marrow  of  two  good 
bones,  and  ftick  it  in  lumps  here  and  there  all  over 
your  Pudding ;  fo  put  it  into  the  oven  three  quar¬ 
ters  of  an  hour,  in  which  time  it  will  be  well  ba¬ 
ked.  Strew  on  it  fome  fine  Sugar,  and  ferve  it. 


To  make  Blacky  Puddings < 


Take  a  pottle  of  half-cut  groats,pick  them  clean, 
'  '  that 


E  175  3 

that  there  may  be  no  husks  nor  foulnefs  in  them  * 
then  put  them  into  a  Mortar,  bruife  them  a  little 
with  a  Peftle ;  then  have  ready  either  milk  or  frefh 
meat-broth  boiled  up,  and  the  Oat-meal  imme¬ 
diately  put  into  it :  It  muft  be  jult  fo  much  as  will 
cover  it  5  then  cover  the  thing  clofethat  it  is  in,and 
let  it  fteep  twenty  four  hours  .•  To  this  two  quarts 
of  Oat-meal,  put  a  pint  and  half  of  Blood,  fea- 
fon  it  well  with  Salt,  and  a  little  Pepper,  and  a 
little  beaten  Cloves  and  Mace,eight  eggs,volks  and 
tvhites,  five  pound  ofKidney-Beef-fuet  dired,  but 
not  too  fmall ;  then  put  in  of  thefe  herbs,  'Penny¬ 
royal,  Fennel,  Leek-blades,  Parfley,  Sage,  StraVv- 
berry-leaves,  and  Violet-leaves,  equal  parts,  in  all 
to  the  quantity  of  a  good  handful ;  let  them  be 
pick'd  and  wafh'd  very  clean,  and  chop'd  very 
lmall,  and  mingled  well  with  the  farmer  things  5 
then  fill  your  Puddings. 

Make  ready  your  guts  in  this  manner.  Cleanle 
them  very  well  when  they  are  frefh  taken  out  of 
the  Hog  5  and  after  they  are  well  walhed  and 
fcoured,  lay  them  to  foak  in  fair  water  three  days 
and  three  nights,  Ihifting  the  water  twice  every 
day ;  and  every  time  you  fhift  the  water,  lcour 
them  firft  with  water  and  fair.  An  hour  and  a  quar¬ 
ter  is  enough  to  boil  them. 

To  preferve  Pippins  in  Jelly  s  either  in  quar- 
1  x  terSj  or  in  flices . 

Take  good  found  clear  Pippins,  pare,  quarter, 
and  core  them  ;  then  put  them  into  a  skillet  of 
Conduit-water,  fuch  a  proportion  as  you  intend  to. 
make ;  boil  it  very  well ;  then  let  the  liquor  run 
from  the  pulp  through  a  fieve,  without  forcing,and 
let  it  ftand  till  the  next  morning.  Take  Orange  or 

M  Limon- 


[  174  1 

Limon- peel,  and  boil  in  a  skillet  of  Water  till  they 
are  tender ;  then  rowl  them  up  in  a  linnen-cloth  to 
dry  the  water  well  out  of  them ;  let  them  ly  lb  all 
night.  Then  take  of  double  refined,  and  finely 
beaten  and  fearced  Sugar,  a  pound  to  every  pint  of 
Pippin-liquor  that  ran  through  the  fieve,  and  to 
every  pound  of  Sugar,  and  pint  of  liquor,  put  ten 
ounces  of  Pippins  in  quarters  or  in  lliccs,  but  cut 
them  not  too  thin ;  boil  them  a  little  while  very 
faft  in  the  Pippin-liquor,  before  you  put  in  the  Su¬ 
gar,  then  ftrew  in  the  Sugar  all  over  them  as  it 
boiletb,  till  it  is  all  in,  keeping  it  ftill  faft  boiling; 
until  they  look  very  clear  j  by  that  you  may  know 
they  are  enough.  While  they  boil,  you  mull  ftill 
be  fcumming  them,  then  put  in  your  juyce  of 
Limon  to  your  laft,  and  Amber,  if  you  pleafe  } 
and  after  let  it  boil  half  a  dozen  walms,  but  no 
more.  Then  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  have  ready 
fome  very  thin  Brown-paper ,  and  clap  a  fingle 
Iheet  dole  upon  it,  and  il  any  1'cum  remain,  it  will 
ftick  to  the  paper.  Then  put  your  quarters  or  dices 
into  your  Gialfes,  and  ftrew  upon  them  very  lmall 
dices  of  Limon  or  Orange  (  which  you  pleafe  ) 
which  you  had  before  boiled }  then  fill  up  your 
Glades  with  your  jelly. 

For  making  your  Pippin-liquor,  you  may  take 
about  forty  Pippins  to  two  quarts  of  water,  or  fo 
much  as  to  make  your  Pippin-liquor  ftrong  of  the 
the  Pippins,  and  the  juyce  of  about  four  Lirnons. 

My  Lady  Diana  Porter’^  Scotch  Collop, 

Cut  a  leg  or  two  of  Mutton  into  thin  dices,which> 
beat  very  well ;  put  them  to  fry  over  a  very  quick 
fire  in  a  pan  firft  glazed  over,  with  no  more  Butter 
melted  in  it,  than  juft  to  befmear  a  little,  all  the 

bot- 


[  ns  ] 

bottom  of  the  Pan.  Turn  them  indue  time.  There 
mult  never  be  but  one  row  in  the  pan.  not  any  ilice 
lying  upon  another >  but  every  one  immediate  to 
the  pan.  When  they  are  fried  enough,  lay  them  in 
an  hot  diJfh  covered,  over  a  Chafing-dilh,  and  pour 
upon  them  the  gravy  that  ran  out  of  them  into  the 
pan.  Then  lay  another  row  of  flices  in  the  pan  to 
fry  as  before  ;  and  when  they  are  enough  ,  put 
them  into  the  difh  to  the  other.  When  you  have 
enough,  by  fiich  repetitions,  or  by  doing  them  in 
two  or  three  pans,  all  at  a  time  j  take  a  Porrenger 
full  of  gravy  of  Mutton,  and  put  into  it  a  piece  of 
Butter  as  much  as  a  Walnut,  and  a  quartered  Oni¬ 
on  if  you  will  (  or  rub  the  difh  afterwards  With 
Garlick)  and  Pepper  and  Salt,  and  let  this  boil  to 
be  very  hot  ;  then  throw  away  the  Onion,  and 
pour  this  into  the  difh  upon  the  flices,  and  let  them 
flew  a  while  together ;  then  fqueeze  an  Orange  up  - 
Aon  it,  and  l'erve  it  up. 

A  Fricaceeof  Veal. 

Cut  a  leg  of  Veal  into  thin  flices,  and  beat  them, 
or  the  like  with  Chicken,  whole  skins  muft  be 
flaid  off.  Put  about  half  a  pint  of  water  or  flefh- 
broth  to  them  in  a  frying-pan,  and  fome  Thyme, 
and  Sweet-marjoram,  ana  an  Onion  or  two  quar¬ 
tered,  and  boil  them  till  they  be  tender,  haviugdea- 
foned  them  with  Salt,  and  about  twenty  corns  of 
whole  white  Pepper,and  four  or  five  Cloves.  When 
they  are  enough,  take  half  a  pint  of  White-wine, 
four  yolks  of  Eggs,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  But¬ 
ter  (  or  more  ),  a  good  fpoonful  of  Thyme,  Sweet- 
marjoram,  andParfley  (  more  Parfley  than  of  the 
others  )  all  minced  fmall  $  a  porrenger  full  of  gra¬ 
vy.  When  all  thefe  are  well  incorporated  together 

M  2  over 


c !?6 

over  the  firei,  and  well  beaten,  pour  it  into  the  part 
to  the  reft,  and  turn  it  contirtually  up  and  down 
'  over  the  fife,  till  all  be  well  incorporated.  Then 
throwaway  the  Onion,  and  firft  lprigs  of  Herbs, 
fqueefe  Orange  to  it,  and  fo  lerve  it  up  hot. 

If  inftbad  of  a  Fricacee  you  Will  make  an  cftuvec 
de  yeau3  {tew 'or  boil  fimpringly  your  dices  of  Veal 
in  White-Wine  and  water,  Awai  with  a  good  lump  of 
Butter,  feafonfag  it  with  Pepper,  Salt,  and  Oni¬ 
ons.  When  it  is  enough,  put  to  it  ftore  of  yolks  of 
eggs  beaten  with  Verjuyce,  or  White- wine  and 
V iriegar,  and  Tome  Nutmeg  (  and  Gravy  if  you 
Will )  andfome'Herbs  as  in  the  Fricacee ,  and  ftir  all 
very  well  over  the  fire,  till  the  fauce  be  well  lie  to¬ 
gether. 

A  Tanfie. 

Take  three  pints  of  Cream,  fourteen  new  laid** 
eggs  (  feven  whites  put  away  )  one  pint  of  juyce  of 
Spinage,  fix  or  feven  ipoonfuls  of  juyce  of  Tanfie, 
a  Nutmeg  (or  two  )  diced  fmall,  half  a  pound  of 
Sugar,  and  a  littirSalt.  Beat  all  thefe  well  toge¬ 
ther,  then  fry  it  in  a  pan  with  no  more  Butter  than 
is  necefTary.  When  it  is  enough,  ferve  it  up  with 
juyce  of  Orange,  or  dices  of  Limon  upon  it. 

To  Stem  Oyftcrs. 

Take  what  quantity  you  will  of  the  beft  Oyfters 
to  eat  raw,  open  them,  putting  all  their  water  with 
the  fifti  into  a  bafin  :  Take  out  the  Oyfters  one  by 
one  ( that  you  may  have  them  waihed  clean  in  their 
own  water  )  and  lay  them  in  the  dilli  you  intend  to 
ftew  thefii  in.  Then  let  their  water  run  upon  them 
through  a  fine'linnen,  that  all  their  foulnefs  may  re- 
*  *  main 


E  *77  ]  -  * 

main  behind.  Then  put  in  a  good  great  lump  of  J3ut» 
ter  to  them,  whidynay  be  (  when  melted  )  half  as 
much  as  their  water.  Seafon  them  with  Salt,  Nut¬ 
meg,  and  a  very  few  Cloves.  Let  this  boil  lmartlv, 
covered.  When  it  is  half  boiled,  put  in  fotne  crufts 
of  light  French-br  ead,  and  boil  on  till  it  ijg.  enough, 
and  then  fervethem  pp. 

You  may  put  in  three  or  four  grains  of  Amber- 
greece  when  you  put  in  the  .Nutmeg,  that  in  the 
boiling  it  may  melt.  You  may  alfo ,  put  in  a  little 
White-wine  or  Verjuyce  at  the  la  ft,  or  fome  juyce 
of  Orange. 

ft  Cl*f  ■  JJV  P>  .  i 

To  drefs  Lampreys,  .  .  . 

At  Glocejler  they  ule  Lampreys  thus.  Heat  water 
in  a  pot  or  kettle  with  a  narrow  mouth,  till  it  be 
near  ready  to  boil  j  fo  that  you  m$y  endure  to  dijp 
your  hand  into  it>  but  not  let  it  ftay  in.  Put  ybur 
Lampreys  as  they  come  out  of  the  River,  into  this 
fealding  water,  and  cover  the  pot  that.little  while 
they  remain  in,  which  muft  be  but  a ' moment,about 
an  Ave  Maria  while.  Then  with  a'  wooden  ladle 
take  them  out,  and  lay  them  upon  a  Table,  and 
hold  their  head  in  a  Napkin  (  elfo'it  will  flip  away 
if  held  in  the  bare  hand  )  and  with!  the  back  of  a  - 
knife  ferape  off  t  bemud,  which  will  have  rifen  out 
all  along  the  fifh.  A  great  deal,  and  very  thick,  will 
come  off,and  then  the  skin  will  look  clean,  and  fin¬ 
ning,  and  blue,  which  muft  never  be  flaid  off.  Then 
open  their  bellies  a  11  along,  and  with  a  pen-knife 
Joofen  the  ftring  which  begins  under  the  gall  (  ha¬ 
ving  firft  call:  away  the  gall  and  entriifs}  then  pull 
it  out,  and  in  the  pulling  away  it  will  ftretch  much 
in  length  j  then  pick  out  a  black  fubftance ,  that  is 
all  along  under  tne  ftring,cutting  towards  the  black 

M  5  as 


1 1?8  ] 

as  much  ai  is  needful  for  this  end.  Then  row!  them 
up  and  down  in  a  foft  and  dr y:  Napkin,  changing 
this  as  foon  as  it  is  wet,  for  another,  ufing  fo  many 
Napkins  as  may  make  the  fifties  perfectly  dry  j  for 
intW  confifteth  a  chief  part  of  their  preparation- 
Then  powder  them  well  with  Pepper  and  Salr,rub~ 
bing  them  in  well,  and  lay  them  round  in  a  pot  or 
ftrong  cruft  upon  a  good  laire  of  Butter,  and  ftore 
of  Onions  every  where  about  them,  and  chiefly  a 
good  company  jp  the  middle.  Then  put  more  But¬ 
ter  upon  them ,  covering  the  pot  with  a  fit  cover, 
and  fo  fet  them  into  a  quick  Oven ,  that  is  ftrongly 
heatedjwhere  they  will  require  three  or  four  hours 
(at  leaft)  baking.  When  they  are  taken  out  of  the 
Oven,  and  begin  to  cool,  ppur  ftore  of  melted  But¬ 
ter  upon  'th£m ,  to  fill  up  the  pot  at  leaft  three  fin- 

fers  bredtf)  above  the  fifh,  ana  then  let  it  coql  and 
ardeft:  And  thus  it  will  keep  a  year  if  need  be, 
fo  the  Butter  be  not  opened,  nor  cracked,  that  the 
air  get  into  the  fifh. 

To  eat  them  prefemly,  they  drefs  them  thus 
When  they  are  prepared,  asabovefaid^  (ready  for 
baking)  boil  them  with  ftore  of  Salt  and  grols 
Pepper  ,  and  many  Onions,  in  no  more  water  than 
is  neceflary  to  cover  them,  as  when  you  boil  a 
Carp  or  Pike  au  Court  bovillou.  In  half  or  three 
quarters  of  an  hour,  they  will  be  boiled  tender. 
Then  take  them  and  drain  them  from  the  water, 
and  ferve  them  with  thickened  Butter,  and  fome  of 
the  Onions  minced  into  it,  and  a  little  Pepper,  lay¬ 
ing  the  dfb  upon  fome  fippets  of  fpungy  bread,  that 
may  foak  up  the  water,  if  any  come  from  the  fifh, 
and  pour  Butter  upon  the  fifh ;  fo  ferve  it  up  hot. 


To 


[  *79  1 


To  drefs  Stocl^fijb,  fomewhat  differ  ingiy  from  the  tray 
of  Holland. 

Beat  the  filh  very  well  with  a  large  wooden  Mal¬ 
let,  fo  as  not  to  break  it,  but  to  loosen  all  the  flakes 
within.  It  is  the  belt  way  to  h^^them  beaten 
with  hard  heavy  ropes.  And  thcll§!i  thus  beaten, 
they  will  keep  a  long  time,  if  you  put  them  into 
Peafe-ftraw,  fo  thruft  in  as  to  keep  them  from  all 
air,  and  that  they  touch  not  one  another,  but  have 
ftraw  enough  between  every  filh.  When  you  will 
make  the  beft  difli  of  them,  take  only  the  tails,  and 
tie  up  half  a  dozen  or  eight  of  them  with  white 
three!.  Firft,  they  muft  be  laid  to  fook  over  night 
in  cold  water.  About  an  hour  and  half,  for  a  little 
more)  before  they  are  to  be  eaten,  put  them  to  ‘ 
boil  in  a  potjor  pipkin,  that  you  may  cover  with  a 
cover  of  Tin  or  Latton  fo  clofe,  that  no  fleam  can 
get  out ;  and  lay  a  flone  or  other  weight  upon  it, 
to  keep  the  cover  from  being  driven  off  oy  the 
fleam  of  the  water.  Put  in  no  more  water  than 
well  to  cover  them.  They  muft  never  boil  ftrongly, 
but  very  leafurely  and  but  fimpringly,  It  will  be 
near  half  an  hour  before  the  water  begin  to  boil 
fo  .*  And  from  their  beginning  to  do  fo,  they  muft 
boil  a  good  hour.  You  muft  never  put  in  any  new 
water,  though  hot,  for  that  will  make  the  fifh 
hard.  After  the  hour,  take  out  the  fifties,  and  untie 
them,  and  lay  them  loofe  in  a  colander  with  holes 
to  drain  out  the  water,  and  tofs  them  in  it  up  and 
down  very  well,  as  you  life  to  do  Butter  and  Peafe; 
and  that  will  looien  and  break  afunder  all  the 
flakes,  which  will  make  them  the  more  fufceptible 
of  the  Butter,  when  you  flew  them  in  it,  arid  make 
it  pierce  the  better  into  the  flakes,  and  make  them 

M  4  tender 


[  i8o] 

tender.  Then  lay  them  in  thin  rows  in  the  difli  they 
are  tobeferved  up  in,  calting  upon  ,  every  row  a 
little  Salt,  and  fome  green  Parfley  minced  very 
fmall.  They  who  love  young  green  Onions  or 
Sives,  or  other  favory  Herbs,  or  Pepper,  may  ufe 
them  alio  in  the  fame  manner,  when  they  are  in 
feafon.  Whemaall  is  in,  fill  up  with  lweet  Butter 
well  melted  afipPiickened  ;  and  fo  let  it  few there 
a  while,  to  foakweli  into  the  fiih  ;  which  will  lye 
in  fine,  loofe,  tender  flakes,  well  buttered  and  fea- 
foned.  You  may  eat  it  with  Muftard  befides. 

£ uttered  Whitings  with  Eggs. 

Boil  Whitings  as  if  you  would  eat  them  in  the 
ordinary  way  with  thick  Butter-fauce.  Pick  them 
dean  from  skin  and  bones,  and  mingle  them  well 
with  Butter,  and  break  them  very  fmall,  and  fea~ 
ion  them  pretty  high  with  Salt.  In  the  mean  time 
butter  fome  eggs  in  the  belt  manner,  and  mingle 
them  with  the  buttered  Whitings,  and  maih  them 
well  together.  The  eggs  muft  not  be  fo  many  by  a 
good  deal  as  the  fdh.  It  is  a  raoft  favory  dim. 

To  drefs  Poor -John  and  Buckprn, 

The  way  of  dreffing  Poor-John,  to  make  it  very 
tender  and  good  meat,  is  this.  Put  itinto  the  ket¬ 
tle  in  cold  water,  and  fo  hang  it  over  the  fire,  and 
fo  let  it  foak  and  ftew  without  boiling  for  5  hours , 
but  the  water  muft  be  very  hot.  Then  make  it  boil 
two  or  three  walms.By  this  time  it  will  be  very  ten¬ 
der  Sc  fwelled  up.  Then  take  out  the  back-bone,and 
put  it  to  fry  with  Onions.  If  you  put  it  firft  into  hot 
Water  (  as  Ling,  and  fuch  fait  Fifh  )  or  being  boiled, 
if  you  let  it  cool,  and  heat  it  again,  it  will  be  tough 
and  hard.  Buc° 


[  ?8 1  1 

Buekorn  is  to  be  watered  a  good  hour  before  you 
put  it  to  the  fire.  Then  boil  it  till  it  be  tender, 
which  it  will  be  quickly.  Then  butter  it  as  you  do 
Ling,  and  if  you  will,  put  eggs  to  it. 

The  way  of  Drejfing  Stock^fi/h  in  Holland. 

Firft  beat  it  exceeding  well,  a  long  time,  but 
with  moderate  blows,  that  you  do  not  break  it  in 
pieces,  but  that  you  ihake  and  loofen  all  the  in¬ 
ward  Fibers.Then  put  it  into  water  (which  may  be 
a  little  warmed)  to  foak ,  and  infufe  fo  during 
twelve  or  fourteen  hours  (or  more,  if  it  be  not 
yet  pierced  into  the  heart  by  the  water,  and  grown 
tender.)  Then  put  it  to  boil  very  gently,  (and 
with  no  more  water  than  well  to  cover  it,  which 
you  muft  fupply  with  new  hot  water  as  it  confu- 
meth)  for  fix  or  feven  hours  at  leaft,  that  it  maybe 
very  tender,  and  Ioofe,  and  fwelled  up.  Then  prefs 
and  drain  out  all  the  water  from  it  5  and  heat  it  a- 
gain  in  a  difh,  with  ftore  of  melted  Butter  thicken¬ 
ed  ;  and  if  you  like  it,  you  may  feafon  it  alfo 
with  Pepper  and  Muftard.  But  it  will  be  yet  bet¬ 
ter,  if  alter  it  is  well  and  tender  boiled  in  water, 
and  that  you  have  prefled  all  the  water  you  can  out 
of  it,  you  boil  it  again  an  hour  longer  in  Milk  5 
out  of  which  when  you  take  it,  to  put  it  into  rhe 
<dilh  with  Butter,  you  do  not  induftrioufly  prefs  out 
all  the  Milk,  as  you  did  the  water,  but  only  drain 
it  out  gently,  prefling  it  moderately.  In  the  Hew¬ 
ing  it  with  butter,  feafon  it  to  your  tafte ,  with 
what  you  think  fitting. 

Another  way  to  drefs  Stocky ffh. 

Beat  it  exceeding  well  with  a  large  wooden  Mal¬ 
let, 


[iSz] 

Jet,  till  you  may  eafily  pluck  it  all  in  'pieces.  Fever¬ 
ing  every  flake  from  other,  and  every  one  of  them 
in  it  fo  being  loolb,  fpungy,  and  limber,  as  the 
whole  fifh  muft  be,  and  pliant  like  a  Glove,  which 
will  be  in  lefsthan  an  hour.  Pull  then  the  bones 
out,  and  throw  them  away,  and  pluck  off  the  skin 
(as  Whole  as  you  can  *,  but  it  will  have  many  brea¬ 
ches  and  holes  in  it,  by  the  beating)  then  gather  all 
the  fifh  together,  and  lap  it  in  the  skin  as  well  as 
you  can,into  a  round  lump,  like  a  bag-pudding,and 
tie  itabout  with  cords  or  firings  (like  a  little  collar 
of  Brawn,  or  fouced  fifh)  and  lo  put  it  into  luke¬ 
warm  water  (over  night)  to  foak,covering  the  vef- 
fel  clofe  ;  but  vou  need  not  keep  it  near  any  heat 
whiles  it  lietl-ffoakihg./Ncxt  morning  take  it  out  of 
that  W^ter  and  veflel,  and  put  it  into  another,  with 
z  moderaterquantity  of  other  water,to  boil ;  which 
it  muft  do  very  leafure4y,  and  but  fimpringly  The 
main  carp  muft  be,  that  the  veffel  it  boileth  in  be 
covered  fo  exceeding  clofe,that  not  the  leaft  breath 
of  fleam  get  out,  elfeicwill  not  be  tender,  but 
tough  and  hard.  It  will  be  boiled  enough,  and  be  ¬ 
come  very  tender  in  about  a  good  half  hour.  Then 
take  it  out,  untie  it,  and  throw  away  the  skin,  and 
lay  the  flaky  fifh  in  a  Colander  to  drain  away  the 
ivater  from  it.  You  muft  prelcntly  throw  a  little 
Salt  upon  it,  and  all  about  in  it,  to  feafon  it.  For 
then  it  will  imbibe  irinto  it  felf prefently ;  whereas 
if  you  fait  it  not,  till  it  grow  cold  in  the  air,  it  will 
not  take  it  in.  Mean  while  prepare  your  fauce  of 
melted  well- thickened  butter  (which  you  may 
heighten  with  fhreded  Onions  or  Sives,  or  what' 
well  rafted  herbs  you  pleafe)  and  if  you  will,  you 
may  firft  ftrew  upon  the  fifh  iome  very  lmall  fhred- 
eti  young  Onions,  or  Sibbouls,  or  Sives,  or  Parfley. 
Then  upon  that  pour  the  melted  butter  to  cover 


[  i83  3 

the  fifh  allpver,  and  foak  into  it.  Serve  it  in  warn 
and  covered* 

To  drefs  Parfnifs, 

Scrape  well  three  or  four  good  large  roots,clean- 
iingwell  their  outfide,  and  cutting  off  as  much 
of  the  little  end  as  is  fibrous.,  and  of  the  great  end 
as  is  hard.  Put  them  into  a  pofnet  or  pot,  with  a- 
bout  a  quart  of  Milk  upon  them,  or  as  much  as 
w  ill  cover  them  in  boiling  5  which  do  moderately, 
till  you  find  they  are  very  tender.  This  may  be  in 
an  hour  and  half,  fooner  or  later,  as  the  roots  are 
of  a  good  kind.  Then  take  them  put,  and  ferape  all 
the  outfideinto  a  pulp,  like  the  pulp  of  rolled  Ap¬ 
ples,  which  put  in  a  diih  upon  a  Chafing-difli  of 
Coals,  with  a  little  of  the  Milk  you  boiled  them 
in,  put  to  them ;  not  fo  much  as  to  drown  them  , 
but  only  to  imbibe  them  :  and  then  with  ftewing, 
the  pulp  will  imbibe  all  that  Milk.  When  you  fee 
it  is  drunk  in,  put  to  the  pulp  a  little  more  of  the 
fame  Milk,  and  ftew  that,  till  it  be  drunk  in.  Con¬ 
tinue  doing  thus  till  it  hath  drunk  in  a  good  quan¬ 
tity  of  themilk,  and  is  well  fwelled  with  it,  and 
will  take  in  no  more,  \v hich  may  be  in  a  good  half 
hour.  Eat  them  fo,  without  Sugar  or  Butter  5  for 
they  will  have  a  natural  fweetnefs,  that  is  beyond 
Sugar,  and  will  be  undtuous,  fo  as  not  to  need 
Butter.  *» 

Parfnips  ( raw)  cut  into  little  pieces,  is  the  belt 
food  for  tame  Rabbets,  and  makes  them  fweet.  As 
Rice  (raw)  is  for  tame  Pigeons,  and  they  like  it 
beft,  varying  it  fometimes  with  right  tarqs,  and 
other  feeds. 


Cream 


[  *84  ] 

•-  «r-  .  ,  '  * 

Cream  with  I\lce. 

A  very  good  Cream  to  eat  hot,  is  thus  made. 
Into  a  quart  of  fweet  Cream,  put  a  fnoonful  of  ve¬ 
ry  fine  powder  of  Rice,  and  boil  them  together 
fufficiently,  adding  Cinnamon,  or  Mace  tod  Nut¬ 
meg  to  your  liking.  When  it  is  boiled  enough  take 
it  from  the  fire,  and  beat  a  couple  of  yolks  of  new- 
laid  eggs,  to  colour  it  ydjow.  Sweeten  it  to  your 
tafte.  rut  bread  to  it,  in  its  due  time. 

Gruel  of  Oat-meal  and  Pfce. 

Dodtor  Pridian  ordered  my  Lord  Cornwallis  for 
his  chief  diet  in  his  loofcnels,  the  following  Gruel, 
which  he  found  very  tafteful. 

Take  about  two  parts  of  Oat-meal  well  beaten 
in  a  Mortar,  and  one  ;part  of  Rice  in  lubtile  pow¬ 
der.  Boil  thefe  well  in  water,  as  you  make  Water- 
gruel,  adding  a  good  proportion  of  .Cinnamon  to 
boil  alfo  in  due  time,then  ftrain  it  through  a  cloath, 
and  fweeten  it  to  your  tafte. 

The  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with  a  little  Sherry- 
fack,  and  put  to  it, "is  not  bad  in  a  loofenefs.  At 
pther  times  you  may  add  Butter.  It  is  very  tafteful 
and  nour  ifhing. 

Sauce  for  a  Carp  or  Pike . 

To  butter  Peafe. 

Take  two  or  three  fpoonfuls  of  the  liquor  the 
Carp  was  boiled  in,  and  put  it  into  a  Pipkin :  there 
muft  be  no  more  than  even  to  cover  the  bottom  of 
die  Pipkin.  Make  this  boil  by  it  felf  $  as  foon  as  it 

doth 


[  ] 


doth  fo,  put.  to  this  half  a  pound  of  fweet  Butter, 
let  it  melt  gently,  or  fuddenly,  'it  imports  not,  fo  as 
the  liquor  boiled  when  you  did  put  the  Butter  in  ; 
when  the  butter  is  meltcd,then  take  itfrom  the  fire, 
and  holding  the  handle  in  your  handshake  it  round 
a  good  while,  and  ftrongly,  and  it  will  come  to  be 
thick,that  you  may  almoft  cut  it  with  a  knife.  Then 
fqueele  juyce  of  Limon  into  it,  or  of  iharp  Orange, 
or  Verjuyce,  or  Vinegar;  and  heat  it  again  as  much 
as  you  pleafe  upon  the  fire.  It  will  ever  after  con¬ 
tinue  thick,  and  never  again,  upon  any  heating, 
grow  oily ,  though  it  be  cold  and  heated  again 
twenty  times.  Butter  done  with  fair  water,  as  is 
laid  above,  with  the  other  liquor,  will  be  thick  in 
the  fame  manner,  (for  the  liquors  make  no  differ* 
ence  in  that.) 

Put  of  this  butter  to  boiled  Peafe  in  their  difh, 
which  cover  with  another ;  fo  fhake  them  very 
ftrongly,  and  a  good  while  together.  This  is  by 
much  the  beft  way  to  butter  Peafe,  and  not  to  lex 
the  butter  melt  in  the  middle  of  them ,  and  then 
ftir  them  long  with  a  fpoon.  This  will  grow  oily 
(though  it  be  good  at  the  firfl  doing)  if  you  heat 
them  "again  :  The  other,  never  ;  and  therefore  is 
the  beft  way  upon  all  occasions  to  make  fuch  thick¬ 
ened  melted  Butter.  You  may  make  Sauce  fora 
Pike  in  the  fame  manner  you  did  for  a  Carp,  put¬ 
ting  Horfe-radilhtoit  if  you  pleafe. 


f 


An  Herring-Pye. 


Put  great  ftoreof  fliced  Onions,  with  Currans 
and  Raifins  of  the  Sun  both  above  and  under  the 
Herrings,  and  ftore  of  Butter,  and  fo  bake  them. 


■  A  Sjl* 


L  186  ] 

,  -  -.  (•  .  J  ‘  -  .  •  ,  ■  .  -  ‘  - 

A  Syllabub. 

Take  a  reafonable  quantity  (as  about  half  a  por* 
renger  full)  of  the  Syrup ,  that  hath  ferved  in  the 
making  of  dried  Plumbs  ;  and  into  a  large  Sylla¬ 
bub-pot  milk,  or  fquirt,  or  let  fall  from  high  a  fuf' 
ficient  quantity  of  Milk  or  Cream.  This  byrup  is 
•very  quick  of  the  fruit,  and  very  weak  of  Sugar  j 
and  therefore  makes  the  Syllabub  exceeding  well 
tafted.  You  may  alfo  ufe  the  Syrup  ufed  in  the  like 
manner  in  the  drying  of  Cherries. 

Butter  and  Oyl  to  fry  Fijb. 

The  beft  liquor  to  fry  fifli  in ,  is  to  take  Butter 
and  Sallet-Oyl,  firft  well  clarified  together.  This 
hath  not  the  unfavory  tafte  of  Oyl  alone,  nor  the 
blacknefs  of  Butter  alone.  It  frieth  Fifh  crilp,  yel¬ 
low,  and  well  tafted. 

To  prepare  Shrimps  for  dr  effing. 

When  you  will  butter  Shrimps,  ftrft  walh  them 
well  in  warm  milk  &  water  equally  mingled  toge¬ 
ther,  and  let  them  foak  a  little  in  it ;  then  waft 
them  again  in  frefh  milk  and  water  warmed,letting 
them  alfo  foak  therein  a  While.  Do  this  twice  or 
thrice  with  frefh  milk  and  water.  This  will  take 
away  all  the  rank nefs  and  fliminefs  of  them.  Then 
butter  them,  or  prepare  them  for  the  table,  as  yod 
think  fit. 

Tcjles  of  Veal. 

My  Lady  Lujfon  makes  thus  her  plain  tofts  ofkid- 

ney 


[  >871 

ney  of  Veal  j  cut  the  kidney  with  all  the  fat  about 
it,  and  a  good  piece  of  the  lean  fkfti  belides.  Ha(h 
all  this  as  l'mall  as  you  can.  Put  to  it  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  picked  and  walhed  Currans,  and  as  much 
Sugar,  one  Nutmeg  grated,  four  yolks,  and  two 
whites  of  new  laid  eggs  raw  ;  work  all  thefe  very 
well  together,fealoning  it  with  fait.  Spread  it  thick 
upon  luces  of  light  white  bread  cut  like  toftes. 
1  hen  fry  them  in  butter,  fuch  quantity  as  may  boii 
over  the  tops  of  thetefts. 

To  make  Muftard. 

The  beft  way  of  making  Muftard  is  this  :  Take 
of  the  beft  Muftard-iecd  (which  is  black)  for  ex¬ 
ample  a  quart.  Dry  it  gently  in  an  Oven,  and  beat 
it  to  fubtile  powder,  and  fearfe  it.  Then  mingle 
well  ftrong  Wine-vinegar  with  it,  fo  much  that  it 
be  pretty  liquid,  for  it  will  dry  with  keeping.  Put 
to  this  a  little  Pepper  beaten  fmall  (white  is  the 
beft)  at  diferetion,  as  about  a  good  pugil,  and  put 
a  good  lpoonful  of  Sugar  to  it  (wftieh  is  not  to 
make  it  tafte  fweet,  but  rather  quick,  and  to  help 
the  fermentation)  lay  a  good  Onion  in  the  bottom, 
quartered  if  you  will,  and  a  race  of  Ginger  fera- 
ped  and  bruiled ;  and  ftir  it  often  with  an  Horfe- 
radilh  root  cleanfed,  which  let  always  lie  in  the 
pot  till  it  have  loft  its  vertue,  then  take  a  new  one. 
This  will  keep  long,  and  grow  better  for  a  while. 
It  is  not  good  till  after  a  month  ,  that  it  hath  fer¬ 
mented  a  while. 

Some  think  it  will  be  the  quicker,  if  the  feed  be 
ground  with  fair  water,  inftead  of  Vinegar,  put¬ 
ting  ftore  of  Onions  in  ir. 

My  Lady  Holmeby  makes  her  quick  fine  Muftard 
thus  .*  Choofe  true  Muftard-feed ;  dry  it  in  an 

Oven 

< 


[  1 88  ] 

Oven  after  the  bread  is  out.  Beat  and  fearfe  it  to 
a  molt  fubtile  powder.  Mingle  Sherry-fack  with  it, 
(ftirring  it  a  long  time  very  well  ,  lb  much  as  to 
have  it  of  a  fit  confiftence  for  Muftard.  Then  put 
a  good  quantity  of  fine  Sugar  to  it,  as  five  or  file 
fpoonfuls,  or  more,  to  a  pint  of  Multard.  Stir  and 
incorporate  all  well  together.  This  will  keep  good 
a  long  time.  Some  do  like  to  put  to  it  a  little  (but 
a  little)  of  very  lharp  Wine-vinegar. 

To  make  a  Whitest. 

Boil  three  pints  of  fweet  Cream ,  with  a  very 
little  Salt  and  home  diced  Nutmeg.  As  foon  as  it 
begins  to  boil,  take  it  from  the  fire.  In  the  mean 
time  beat  the  yolks  of  twelve  or  fifteen  neW-laid 
eggs  very  well  with  lome  Rofe  or  Orange-flower 
water,  and  fweeten  the  Cream  to  your  tafte  with 
Sugar.  Then  beat  three  or  four  fpoonfuls  of  Cream 
with  them,  and  quickly  as  many  more;  l'o pro¬ 
ceeding  till  you  have  incorporated  all  the  Cream, 
and  all  the  Eggs.  Then  pour  the  Eggs  and  Cream 
into  a  deep  didi  laid  over  with  fippets  of  fine  light 
bread,  which  will  rife  up  to  the  top  for  the  moft' 
part.  When  it  is  cooled  and  thickened  enough  to 
bear  Raifins  of  the  Sun,  ftrew  all  over  the  top 
with  them  (well  wafhed.)  Then  prefs  a  little  way 
into  it  with  great  lumps  of  raw  Marrow.  Two 
.bones  will  fuffice.  Cover  your  dilh  with  another,- 
and  fet  it  upon  a  great  pot  of  boiling  water ,  with 
a  good  fpaee  between  the  water  and  the  dilh,  that 
there  be  roam  for  the  hot  fteam  to  rife  and  ftrike 
upon  the  dilh.  Keep  good  fire  always  under  your 
pot.  In’  lefs  then  an  hour  (ufually}  it  is  baked 
enough.  You  will  perceive  that,  it  the  Marrow 
look  "brown,  and  be  enough  baked.  If  it  Ihould 

eon- 


[  IS9  ] 

continue  longer  on  the  heat,  it  vVould  melt;  You 
may  bake  it  in  an  Oven  if  you  will ;  but  it  is  hard 
to  regulate  it  fo,  that  it  be  not  too  much  or  too 
little";  whereas  the  boiling  water  is  certain.  You 
may  ftrew  Ambred  Sugar  upon  it,  either  before 
you  let  it  to  bake,  or  after  it  is  done. 

For  fyajling  of  Meat. 

To  roaft  fine  meat,  (as  Partridge,  Pheafant* 
Chicken,  Pcgeon)  that  it  be  full  of  juyee ;  baftc 
it  as  loon  as  it  is  through  hot,  and  time  to  baftc, 
with  Butter.  When  it  is  very  moift  all  over,fprinkle 
flower  upon  it  every  where,  that  by  turning  about 
the  fire,  it  may  become  a  thin  cruft.  Then  bafte  it 
no  more  till  the  latter  end.  This  cruft  will  keep  hi  - 
all  the  juyee.  A  little  before  you  take  it  up,  bafte 
it  again  with  Butter,  and  this  will  melt  away  all 
the"cruft.  Then  give  i:  three  or  four  turns  of  the 
fpir,  that  it  may  make  the  outfide  yellow  and  crifp. 

You  may  alio  bafte  luch  meat  with  volks  of  new- 
laid  eggs ,  beaten  into  a  thin  Oy],  But  with  this 
you  continue  baiting  all  the  while  the  meat  roftethi 

To  ft  "tv  a  furrp  of  Beef. 

Take  a  Rump  of  Eeef,  break  all  the  bones ;  fea- 
fon  it  with  Pepper  and  Silt  to  your  lilting  :  Take 
three  or  four  Nutmegs,  and  a  quantity  of  Mace, 
beatthem  grofly  :  Then  take  a  bunch  of  very  good 
fweet  herbs,  and  one  good  Onion  cut  in  quarters, 
or  Garlicky  as  you  like  it.  .Put  in  half  a  pint  of 
White- wine  Vinegar,  and  orie  pint  of  good  Claret, 
one  handful  of  Sugar,  and  a  piece  ©r  two  of  Beef- 
fuet  or  Butter  :  Shred  fame  Cabbage  under  and 
over  ;  and  ferape  in  a  pound  of  good  old  Cheefe. 

N  Put 


t  r9°] 

Put  all  thefe  into  an  earthen  pot,  and  let  it  ftand 
in  an  oven  with  brown  bread  four  or  rive  hours 
but  let  the  pot  be  covered  clofe  with  pafte. 

Another. 

Take  a  fat  Rump  of  young  Beef,  as  it  comes  from 
the  Butcher,  and  take  out  all  the  bones,  excepting 
the  tip  of  it  towards  the  tail  that  is  all  fat,  which 
you  cannot  take  out,  without  fpoiling,  or  defacing, 
or  breaking  it.  But  take  out  all  the  thick  bones  to¬ 
wards  the  Chine,  and  the  thick  Sinews,  that  are  on 
the  outer  rides  of  the  flerii ;  (which  will  never  be¬ 
come  tender  with  boiling)  lb  that  you  have  nothing 
but  the  pure  flelh  and  fat ,  without  any  bony  or 
tough  fubftance.  Then  beat  well  the  lean  part  with 
a  wooden  rowling-pin,  and  when  you  have  beaten 
well  one  ride,  turn  the  other.  Then  rub  it  well 
with  Pepper  groriy  beaten,  and  fait  j  juft  as  you 
Would  do,  to  feafon  a  Venifon  Pafty,  making  the 
fea foiling  higher  or  gentler  according  to  your  tafte. 
Then  lay  it  in  a  fit  veffel,  with  a  flat  bottom,  (pip¬ 
kin  or  kettle  as  you  have  conveniency)  that  will  but 
juft  contain  it ,  but  l'o  that  it  may  lie  at  eafe.  Or 
you  may  tie  it  up  in  a  dole  thin  linnen  cloth,  or 
boulter,  as  they  do,  Cleons  a  la  tnode,  or  Brawn,  or 
the  like.  Then  put  water  upon  it,  but  juft  to  cover 
it,  and  boil  it  clofe  covered  a  matter  of  two  hours 
pretty  fmartly,  fo  that  it  be  well  half  boiled.  Then 
take  it  out  of  that,and  put  it  into  another  fit  veflcl, 
or  the  fame  cleanfed,  and  put  upon  it  about  two 
quarts  of  good  ftrong  deep  well  boiled  Claret- 
wine,  and  a  good  bundle  ol  fweet  herbs.  Penny¬ 
royal,  Sweet-marjoram,  Winter-fa vory,  Limon, 
Thyme,  &c.)  and  a  good  large  Onion  peeled,  and 
ftuck  as  clofe  with  Cloves  as  you  can  ftick  it,  if  you 


l  jyi i 

like  the  tafte  of  Onions.  They  muft  be  the  ftrong 
Siting  Onions  that  are  round  and  red  5  a  little 
Nutmeg,  and  fome  Macc.  Put  to  the  wine  about 
a  pint  or'  the  liquor  that  you  have  already  boiled 
the  Beef  in ;  and  if  you  would  have  it  ftrong  of  the 
feafoning  of  Pepper  and  Salt ;  take  the  bottom  of 
this  liquor.  Thus  let  it  boil  very  gently,  fimpring- 
ly,  or  rather  ftew  with  Charcoal  over  a  little  furr 
nace^  or  a  fit  Chafing-diih,  a  matter  of  three  hours,, 
clofe  covered.  If  the  liquor  tvafte  too  much,  you 
may  recruit  it  with  what  you  have  kept  of  that, 
which  your  Beef  was  boiled  in.  When  it  is  near 
time  to  take  it  up,  ftew  fome  Oyfters  in  their  own 
liquor  (to  which  you  may  add  at  the  latter  end, 
fome  of  the  winy  liquor,  that  the  Beef  is  now  Hew¬ 
ing  in,  or  fome  of  the  firft  Beef-broth,  01  ufe  fomc 
good  pickled  Oyfters)  and  at  the  fame  time  make 
lome  thin  toftes  of  Kjngfion  Manchct,  which  tofte 
very  leilurely,  or  rather  dry  thein  throughly,  and 
very  hard  and  crifp,  but  riot  burned,  by  lying 
long  before  the  fire.  And  i£  you  have  frefh  Cham¬ 
pignons,  drefs  a  good  dilh  full  of  them,  to  be 
ready  at  the  fame  time,  when  all  the  reft  is  ready , 
if  not,  ufe  pickled  ones,  without  further  dreffing. 
When  you  find  your  Beef  is  as  tender  as  can  be, 
and  willfcarcely  hold  together,  to  be  taken  up  to¬ 
gether,  and  that  all  the  other  things  are  ready  lay 
the  tofts  in  the  dilh,  where  the  Beef  is  to  lie  j  pour 
fome  of  the  liquor  upon  in,  Then  lay  the  Beef  up¬ 
on  the  tofts,  throw  away  the  bundle  of  herbs  and 
onions , .  and  pour  the  reft  of  the  liquor  upon 
the  Beef,  as  alio  the  Oyfters  and  the  Mulh- 
rooms ,  _  to  which  add  a  pretty  deal ,  about 
half  a  pint  of  Broom-buds  5  and  fo  let  it  Hand  i 
ivhile  well  covered  over  coals  to  mittoner  5  and  to' 
have  all  the  feverai  fubftances  communicate  their 

N  2,  taftCs 


[  i9*  J 

taftes  to  one  another ,  and  to  have  the  toftes  (well 
up  like  a  gelly.  Then  lerve  it  up.  if  you  want  li¬ 
quor,  you  may  ftill  recruit  your  felf  out  of  the 
firft  Beef-broth ,  which  you  keep  all  to  fupply  any 
want  afterwards.  Have  a  care  whiles  it  is  ftewing, 
in  the  winy  liquor,  to  lift  the  fleih  fometimes  up 
from  the  bottom  of  the  veffcl,  left  if  it  Ihould  lie 
always  ftill,  it  may  ftick  to  the  bottom,  and  burn  ; 
but  you  cannot  take  it  out ,  tor  it  will  fall  in  pie¬ 
ces.  It  will  be  yet  better  meat,  if  you  add  to  it,  at 
the  laft  (when  you  add  all  the  other  heightnings) 
fome  Marrow,  and  fome  Chefnuts,  and  fome  Pi- 
ftachious ,  if  you  will.  Put  to  your  Broom-buds 
(before  you  put  them  in  to  the  reft)  fome  Elder- 
vinegar,  enough  to  foak  them,  and  even  to  cover 
them.  If  you  find  this  make  your  compofiition  of 
the  whole  too  lharp,  you  may  next  time  take  lefs. 
When  you  put  the  beef  to  ftew  with  the  Wine  (or  a 
While  afterj  you  may  put  to  it  a  pretty  quantity  (as 
mnch  as  you  can  take  in  both  hands  at  once)  of 
fhreded  Cabbage,  if  it  be  the  feafon  ;  or  of  Tur* 
nips,  if  you  like  either  of  thefe.  Carrots  make  it 
fomewhat  flat.  If  the  wine  be  not  quick  enough, 
you  may  put  a  little  Elder-vinegar  to  it.  If  you 
iike  Garlick,  you  may  put  in  a  little,  or  rub  the  difh 
with  it. 

Pickled  Champignons. 

Champignons  arebeft,  that  grow  upon  gravelly 
dry  riling  grounds.  Gather  them  of  the  laft  nights 
growth  i  and  to  preferve  them  white,  it  is  well  to 
caft  them  into  a  pitcher  of  fair  water,as  vou  gather 
them  :  But  that  is  not  abfolutely  neceffary,  if  you 
will  go  about  drefling  them  as  loon  as  you  come 
home.  Cut  the  great  ones  into  halves  or  quarters. 


[  m  ] 

feeing  carefully  there  be  no  worms  in  them  j  and 
peel  off  their  upper  skin  on  the  tops }  the  little 
ones  peel  whole.As  you  peel  them,  throw  them  into 
a  bafin  of  fairwater,  which  preferves  them  white. 
Then  put  them  into  the  Pipkin  or  Pofhet  of  Copper 
(no  Iron)  and  put  a  very  little  water  to  them,  and 
a  large  proportion  of  Salt.  If  you  have  a  pottle  of 
Mufhrooms,  you  may  put  to  them  ten  or  twelve 
fpoonfulsof  water,  and  two  or  three  of  Salt.  Boil 
them  with  pretty  quick  fire,  and  fcum  them  wel  1  all 
the  while,  taking  away  a  great  deal- of  foulnefs  that 
will  rife.  They\vill  ffirink  into  a  very  little  room. 
When  they  are  fufficiently  parboiled  to  be  tender, 
and  well  cleanfed  of  their  ficum,  (which  will  be  in 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour)  take  them  out,  and 
put  them  into  a  Colander,  that  all  the  moifture 
may  drain  from  them.  In  the  mean  time  make  your 
pickle  thus:Takc  a  quart  of  Pure  lharp  white-wine, 
vinegar  (Elder-vinegar  isbeft)  put  two  or  three 
Ipoonfuls  of  whole  Pepper  to  it,  twenty  or  thirty 
Cloves,  one  Nutmeg  quartered,  two  or  three  flakts 
of  Mace,  three  Bay-leaves ;  (fome  like  Limon, 
Thyme  and  Rofemary ;  but  then  it  muff  be  a  very 
little  of  each)  boil  all  thefe  together  till  the  Vine¬ 
gar  be  well  impregnated  with  the  ingredients, 
which  will  be  in  about  half  an  hour.  Then  take  it 
from  the  fire,  and  let  it  cool.  When  the  pickle  is  , 
quite  cold,  and  the  Muilirooms  alfo  quite  cold,  and 
drained  from  all  moifture,  put  them  into  the  li¬ 
quor  ( with  all  the  ingredients  in  it )  which  you  rnuft 
be  fure,  be  enough  to  cover  them.  In  ten  or  twelve 
days,  they  will  nave  taken  into  them  the  full  tafte 
of  the  pickle,  and  will  keep  very  good  half  a  year. 

If  you  have  much  fupernatant  liquor,  you  may 
parboil  more  Mulhrooms  next  day,  and  put  them 
to  the  firft.  If  you  have  not  gathered  at  onc„ 

N  3  enough 


[  194  ] 

enough  for  a  dreffing,  you  may  keep  them  all  night 
in  water  to  preferve  them  white,  and  gather  rnorp 
the  next  day,  to  joyn  to  them. 

To  ft tv  Wardens  or  Pears . 

Bare  them,  put  them  into  a  pipkin,  with  fo  much 
Red  or  Clatet-wine.  and  water,  as  will  near  reach, 
to,  the  top  of  the  Pears.  Stew  or  boil  them  gently, 
till  they  grow  tender,  which  may  be  in  two  hours'. 
After  awhile,  put  in  fome  fticks  of  Cinnamon 
bruifed  and  a  few  Cloves.  When  they  are  almoft 
done,  put  in'Sugar  enough  to  fealon  them  well  and 
their,  Syrup,  which  you  pour  out  upon  them  in  a 
deep  plate. 

O  4  I  *  ;  _  '  ^  ‘  ; 

To  few  Apples. 

Pare  them  and  cut  them  into  flices.  Stevy  them 
with  wine  and  water  as  the  Pears,  and  feafon  them 
in  like  manner  with  Spice.  Towards  the  end  fweet- 
en  them  with  Sugar,  breaking  the  Apples  into  pap 
by  ftirring  them.  When  you  are  ready  to  take  them 
off,  put  in  good  itore  of  frefli  butter,  and  incorpo¬ 
rate  it  well  with  them,  by  ftirring  them  together. 
You  ftew  thefe  between  two  dilhes.  The  quickcft 
Apples  are  the  belt. 

Portugue %  Eggs. 

The  way  that  the  Countefs  dc  Penalya  makes  thp 
Portuguez  eggs  for  the  Queen,  is  this.  Take  the 
yolks  (clean  picked  from  the  whites  and  germ)  of 
twelve  new  laid  eggs.  Beat  them  exceedingly  vvith 
a  little  (fcarce  a  Ipoonful)  of  Orange-flower  wa¬ 
ter.  When  they  are  exceeding  liquid,  clear,  and 
-  v  "  uni® 


[  I9T  1 

uniformly  a  thin  liquor,  put  to  them  one  pound  of 
pur*e  double  refined  Sugar  (if  it  be  not  lb  pure,  it 
muftbe  clarified  before)  and  ftew  them  in  your  dilb 
or  bafin  over  a  very  gentle  fire,  ftirring  them  conti¬ 
nually,  whiles  they  are  over  it,  fo  that  the  whole 
may  become  one  uniform  fubftance,  of  the  confid¬ 
ence  of  an  Eledfuary  (beware  they  grow  not  too 
hard ;  for  without  muen  caution  and  attention,  that 
will  happen  on  a  fudden)  which  then  you  may  eat 
prefently,  or  or  put  into  pots  to  keep.  You  may  dif- 
l'olve  Amber^reece  (if  you  will,  ground  fxrft  very 
much  with  b\igar)  in  Orange-flower  or  Rofe-wa- 
ter,  before-hand,  and  put  it  (warm  and  dilfolved) 
to  the  eggs,  when  you  let  them  to  ftew.  If  you  cla- 
rifie  your  Sugar,  do  it  with  one  of  tbefe  waters, 
and  whites  of  eggs.  The  flavor  of  thefe  lwcet  wa¬ 
ters  goeth  almoft  all  away  with  boiling.Therefore 
half  a  fpoonful  put  into  the  compofition,  when  you 
take  it  from  the  fire,feafoneth  it  more  then  ten  times 
as  much  put  in  at  the  firft. 

To  boil  Eggs. 

A  certain  and  infallible  method  to  boil  new  laid 
eggs  to  fup  up,  and  yet  that  they  have  the  white 
turned  to  milk,  is  thus  :  Break  a  very  little  hole,  at 
the  bigger  end  of  the  Ibell,  and  put  it  into  the  wa¬ 
ter,  whiles  it  boileth.  Let  it  remain  boiling,  whiles 
your  pulfe  beateth  two  hundred  ftrokes.  Then  take 
it  out  immediately,  and  you  will  find  it  of  an  ex- 
a&  temper.  Others  put  eggs  into  boiling  water  juft 
as  you  take  it  from  the  fire ,  and  let  them  remain 
there,  till  the  water  be  fo  cooled,  that  you  may  juft 
put  in  your  hand,  and  take  out  the  eggs.  Others  put 
the  eggs  into  cold  water,  which  they  let  upon  the 
fire,and  as  foon  as  the  water  begins  to  boil, the  eggs 
are  enough.  N  4  To 


[19«] 

To  make  clear  Geliy  of  Bran. 

Take  two  pound  of  the  broadeft  open  Bran  of 
the  bcft  Wheat,  and  put  it  to  infufe  in  a  gallon  of 
water,  during  two  or  three  days,  that  the  water 
may  loak  into  the  pure  flower,  that  flicks  to  the 
bran.  Then  boil  it  three  or  four  walms,and  prelent- 
1  y  rake  it  from  the  fire,  and  (train  it  through  fome 
fine  ftrainer.  A  milky  fubftance  will  come  out, 
which  let  fland  to  fetle  about  half  a  day.  Pour  off 
the  clear  water  that  fwimmeth  oyer  the  ftarch  or 
flopery,  that  is  in  thebottom  (which  is  very  good 
for  Pap,  £?c.)  and  boil  it  up  to  a  gelly,  as  you  do 
Harts-hom  gelly  or  the  like,  and  fealon  it  to  your 
tafte. 

To  bake  Vemfon. 

Boil  the  bones  (well  broken)  and  remaining  flefli 
of  the  Venifon,  from  whence  the  meat  of  the  Pa- 
fty  is  cut,  in  the  liquor  wherein  Capons  and  Veal, 
or  Mutton  have  been  boiled,  lb  to  make  very 
ftfong  broth  of  them.  The  bones  muff  be  broken, 
that  you  may  have  the  Marrow  of  them  in  the  li- ' 
quor  ;  and  they  muft  flew  a  long  time  ( covering 
tne  pot  dole)  that  you  may  make  the  broth  as 
flrong  as  you  can  ;  and  if  you  put  fome  gravy  of 
Mutton  or  Veal  to  it,  it  will  be  the  better.  When 
the  Pafty  is  half  baked,  pour  fome  of  this  broth 
into  it  by  the  whole  at  the  top  ;  and  the  reft  of  ir, 
when  it  is  quite  baked,  and  wanteth  but  (finding  in 
the  Oven  to  foak.  Or  put  it  all  in  at  orice,  when 
the  Pafty  is  diffidently  baked ,  and  afterwards  let 
it  remain  in  the  Oven  a  good  while  (baking. 

You  may  bake  the  bones  (broken)  with  the 

broth 


[  i97  ] 

broth  and  gravy,  or  for  want  thereof,  with  6nly 
water  in  an  earthen  pot  dole  ftopped,till  you  have 
all  the  fubftance  in  the  liquor ;  which  you  may 
pour  into  the  Pafty  an  hour  before  it  is  baked 
enough. 

If  you  are  in  a  Park,  you  may  foak  the  Vcnj- 
fon  a  night  in  the  blood  of  the  Deer  ;  and  cover 
the  flefh  with  it,  dotted  together  when  you  put  it 
in  pafte.  Mutton  blood  alio  upon  Venifon  is  very 
good.  You  may  feafon  your  blood  a  little  with 
Pepper  and  Salt. 

To  bake  Venifon  to  keep. 

After  you  have  boned  it,  and  cutaway  all  the 
finews,  then  feafon  it  with  Pepper  and  Salt,  pret¬ 
ty  high,  and  divide  a  Stag  into  four  pots  ;  then  put 
about  a  pound  of  Butter  upon  the  top  of  each  pot, 
and  cover  it  with  Rye-pafte  pretty  thick.  Your  • 
Oven  muft  be  fo  hot,  that  after  a  whole  night  it 
may  be  baked  very  tender,  which  is  a  great  help  to 
the  keeping  of  it.  And  when  you  draw  it,  drain 
all  the  liquor  from  it,  and  turn  your  pot  upon  a 
pie- plate,  with  the  bottom  upwards,  and  fo  let  it 
lland  until  it  is  cold  :  Then  wipe  your  pot,  that  no 
gravy  remain  therein,  and  then  put  your  Venifon 
into  the  fame  pot  again  ;  then  have  your  Butter 
very  well  clarified,  that  there  be  no  drofs  remain¬ 
ing  :  Then  fill  up  your  Pot  about  two  inches  above 
the  meat  with  Butter ,  or  elfe  it  will  mould.  And 
fo  the  next  day  bind  it  up  very  dole,  with  a  piece 
of  fheeps  Leather,  fo  that  no  air  can  get  in.  After 
which  you  may  keep  it  as  long  as  you  pleafe. 

Mr.  Adrian  May ,  puts  up  his  Venifon  in  pots,  to 
keep  long  thus  :  Immediately  as  foon  as  he  hath 
.  killed  it,  he  feafoneth  and  baketh  it  as  foon  as  he 

can, 


can,  fb  that  thg  flcfh  may  never  be  cold.  And  this 
niaketh  that  the  fat  runneth  in  among  the  leaned 
as  likecalvered  Salmon,  and  eats  much  more  mel¬ 
low  and  tender.  But  before  rhe  Dear  be  killed,  he 
ought  to  be  hunted  and  chafed  as  much  as  may  be. 
Then  fealoned  and  put  in  the  Oven  before  it  be*/ 
cold.  Be  fure  to  pour  out  all  the  gravy,  that  fetleth 
to  the  bottom,  under  the  flefh  after  the  baking,  be¬ 
fore  you  put  the  Butter  to  it,  that  is  to  lie  very  chicly 
upon  the  meat,  to  keep  it  all  the  year. 

About  making  of  Brawn. 

It  muft  be  a  very  large  Oven,  that  io  it  may  con-* 
trad:  the  ftronger  heat,  and  keep  it  the  longer.  It 
mult  be  at  lealt  eight  hours  heating  with  wood,thac 
it  be  as  hot  as  is  poffible.  If  the  Brawn  be  young, 
it  will  fuffice  eight  hours  or  a  little  more  in  the 
,  Oven.  But  if  old ,  it  muft  be  ten  or  eleven.  Put 
but  two  Collars  into  each  pot ,  for  bigger  are  un¬ 
wieldy.  Into  every  pot,  put  twelve  corns  of  whole 
Pepper,  four  Cloves,  a  great  Onion  peeled  and 

Suartered,  and  two  Bay-leaves,  before  you  put 
lcm  into  the  Oven,  Before  they  are  fet  in,  you  do 
not  fill  them  with  water  to  the  top,  left  any  ftiould 
Ipill  in  Aiding  them  in  ;  but  fill  them  up  byta  boul 
faftned  to  a  long  pole.  No  water  muft  be  put  in  af¬ 
ter  the  Oven  is  elofed  (nor  the  Oven  ever  oe  open¬ 
ed,  till  after  all  is  throughly  baked)  and  therefore 
you  muft  put  in  enough  at  firft  to  ferve  to  the  laft  ; 
you  muft  rowl  your  Collars  as  clofe  as  may  be,  that 
no  air  may  be  left  in  the  folds  of  them  ;  and  few 
them  up  in  exceeding  ftrong  cloth,  which  a  ftrong 
man  muft  pull  as  hard  as  he  can  in  the  fewing.Their 
cloths  muft  not  be  pulled  off  till  the  Collars  have 
been  three  or  four  days  out  of  the  Oven ,  left  you 


[  *99  1 

puli  off  part  of  the  Brawn  with  them-  You  rnay 
put  the  lame  proportion  of  Pepper ,_  Cloves ,  (pc. 
into  the  Souce-drink,  as  you  did  in  the  baking 
them;  which  at  either  time  (efpecially  at  firft) 
give  them  a  fine  tafte.  The  Souce-drink  is  made  of 
fix  ftiillings-Becr,  and  Thames.,  or  River-water,  of 
each  an  equal  quantity,  well  boiled  with  Safi. 
When  boiled  and  cold ,  put  into  it  two  or  three 

auarts  of  skimmed  milk,  only  to  colour  it ;  and  io 
aange  it  once  in  three  weeks.  Tender  Brawn  fli- 
ced  thin,  «5c  laid  Sallet-wifeinthedifhasthefiiccd 
Capon,  and  leafoned  with  Pepper,  Salt,  Vinegar, 
and  Oyl,  with  a  little  Limon,  i$  a  very  good  Sallet. 

Sallet  of  cold  Capon  I{oaJled. 

It  is  a  good  Sallet,  to  dice  a  cold  Capon  thin; 
mingle  with  it  fome  Sibbolds,  Lettuce,  Rocket,  and 
Tarragon  diced  fmall.  Seafon  all  with  Pcppcr,Salt, 
Vinegar,  and  Oyl,  and  diced  Limon  :  a  little  Or  it 
ganum  doth  well  with  it. 

Mutt  on  baked  like  Venifon3  foakirig  cither 
in  their  blood . 

Take  a  large  fat  loin  of  Mutton  (or  two)  boned 
after  the  manner  of  Venifon.  Seafon  it  well  to 
your  tafte  with  Pepper  and  Salt.  Then  lay  it  to 
fteep  all  night  in  enough  of  the  fheeps  blood  ,  to 
cover  it  over,  and  foak  well  into  it.  Then  lay  it 
into  the  pafte,  with  all  the  clotted  thick  blood  un¬ 
der  it,  upon  it ,  and  hanging  about  it.  You  piay 
fealon  the  blood  with  Pepper  and  Salt,  befo  re  yoe 
lay  the  meat  in  it.  But  though  you  do  not,  it  will 
not  be  amifs,  fo  as  the  meat  be  feafoned  high 
enough.  Then  bake  it  as  you  do  an  ordinary  Pafty, 


[  200  ] 

and  you  may  put  gravy  of  Mutton  or  ftrong  broth 
into  it.  You  may  do  it  in  a  difh'with  pafte  j~as  my 
Lady  of  Newport  doth  her  Venifon.  This  way  of 
fteeping  in  blood  before  you  bake  it,  is  very  good 
allb  for  Venifon. 

\  1 

To  mal{c  an  excellent  Hare-  Pje. 

H^lh  the  flelh  of  as  many  Hares,  as  you  pleafe,  - 
very  fmall.  Then  beat  them  ftrongly  in  a  Mortar  in¬ 
to  a  Pafte,  which  feafon  duly  with  Pepper  -and Salt. 
Lard  it  throughly  all  over  with  great  lardons  of 
Lard  well  rowled  in  Pepper  and  Salt.  Put  this  in¬ 
to  a  ftraight  earthen  pot,  to  lie  clofe  in  it.  If  you  like 
Onions,  you  may  put  one  or  two  quartered  into  the 
bottom  of  the  Pot.  Put  (lore  of  lweet  Butter  upon 
the  meat,  and  upon  that  forne  ftrong  red  Claret- 
wine.  Cover  the  pot  with  a  double  flxong  brown 
paper,  tied  clofe  about  the  mouth  of  it.  Set  it  to 
bake  with  houfhold-bread,  (or  in  an  Oven,  as  a 
Venifcn-pafty)  for  eight  or  ten  hours.  Then  take 
out  the  pot,  and  thence  the  meat,  and  pour  away  all 
the  liquor,  which  let  fettle.  Then  take  all  the  con-* 
gealed  Butter,  and  clarifie  it  well.  Put  your  meat 
again  into  the  pot,  and  put  upon  it  your  clarified 
Butter,  and  as  much  more  as  is  needfary.  And  I  be¬ 
lieve  the  putting  of  Claret-wine  to  it  now  is  better, 
and  to  omit  it  before.  Bake  it  again,  but  a  lels 
while.  Pour  out  all  the  liquor  when  it  is  baked, 
and  clarifie  the  Butter  again,  and  pour  it  upon  the 
meat,  and  fb  let  it  cool.  The  Butter  muft  be  at 
leaft  two  or  three  fingers  breadth  over  the  meat. 

To  bake  Beef. 

Bone  it,  and  beat  it  exceeding  well  on  all  fides, 

•with 


With  a  roWling-pin  upon  a  Table.  Then  feafon  it 
with  Pepper  and  Salt,,  (rubbing  them  in  very  well} 
and  fome  Parfley,  and  a  few  Sweet-herbs  (Penny¬ 
royal,  Winter-favory,  Sweet-marjoram,  Limon- 
peel.  Thyme,  Red-fage,  which  yet  to  fomefeems 
to  have  a  phyfical  tafte)  an  onion  if  you  will.Squeefe 
it  into  the  pot  as  clofeas  you  can.  Put  Butter  upon 
it,  and  Claret-wine,  and  covered  all  as  above. 
Bake  it  in  a  ftrong  Oven  eight  or  ten  hours.  Take  it 
out  of  the  Oven,  and  the  meat  out  of  the  pot, 
which  make  clean  from  all  letlings ;  and  fqueefe  all 
the  juyee  from  it  (even  by  a  gentle  prefs.J  Then 
put  it  again  hard  prefled  into  the  pot.  CJarific 
the  Butter,  that  you  poured  with  the  liquor  from 
themeat  out  of  the  Pot ;  and  pour  it  in  again  with 
more  frefh  Butter,  to  have  enough  to  cover  k 
two  or  three  fingers  thick. 


' To  bake  Pigeons  (which  are  thus  excellent ,  and  will 
keep  a  quarter  of  a  year )  or  Teals ,  or  Wild- 
ducky. 

Seafonthem  duly  with  Pepper  and  Salt,  then  lay 
them  in  the  pot,  and  put  ftore  of  Butter,  and  fome 
Claret-wine  to  them.  Cover  and  bake  as  above ; 
but  a  lefs  while  according  to  the  tendernefs  of  the 
meat.  In  due  time  take  out  your  pot,  and  your 
birds  out  of  it,  which  prefs  not,  but  only  wipe  off 
the  liquor. Pour  it  out  all.Clarifie  the  Butter;  put  in 
the  Birds  again,  and  the  clarified  Butter,  and  as 
much  more  as  needs  (all  melted )  upon  them,  and 
ler  it  cool.  You  may  put  a  few  Bay-leaves  upon 
any  of  thefe  baked  meats,  between  the  meat  and 
the  Butter.  . 


Green 


;  [  202  ] 

Grcen-Geefe  Pye. 

An  excellent  cold  Pye  is  thus  made.  Take  twb 
fat  Grecn-gcele ;  bone  them,  and  lay  them  in  pgfte 
one  upon  the  other,  feafoning  them  well  with  Pep¬ 
per  and  Salt,  and  fome  little  Nutmeg,  both  above 
and  below,  and  between  the  tWo  Geefc.  When  it 
is  well  baked  and  out  of  the  Oven ,  pour  in  melt¬ 
ed  Butter  at  a  hole  made  in  the  top.  The  cruft  is 
much  better  than  of  a  Stubble-godle. 

To  boil  Beef  or  Vemfon  tender  and  favoury. 

The  way  to  haVe  Beef  tendereft,  Ihort,  and  beft 
boiled,  as  my  Lord  of  Saint  Albans  ufeth  it,  is  thus. 
Take  a  Rump  or  brisket  of  Beef ;  keep  it  without 
Salt  as  long  as  you  may,  without  danger  to  have  it 
l'mell  ill.  For  lb  it  groweth  mellow  and  tender* 
which  it  would  not  do ,  if  it  were  pleafantly  fai¬ 
red.  When  it  is  fufficiently  mortified,  rub  it  well 
with  Salt;  lei  it  lie  fo  but  a  day  and  anight,  or 
at  molt  two  nights  and  a  day.  Then  boil  it  in  no 
more  water  then  is  neceilary.  Boil  it  pretty  ftnartly 
at  firlt,  but  afterwards  but  a  fimpring  or  Hewing 
boiling,  which  muft  continue  feven  or  eight  hours. 
Sometimes  he  boileth  it  half  over  night ,  and  the 
reft  next  morning.  If  you  Ihould  not  have  time  to 
1  alt  it,  you  may  fupply  that  want  thus :  When  the 
Beef  is  through  boiled,  you  may  put  fo  much  Salt 
into  the  pot  as  to  make  the  broth  like  brine ,  and 
then  boil  it  gently  an  hour  longer ;  or  take  out;  the 
Beef,  and  put  it  into  a  deep  difh,  and  put  to  it 
fome  of  thisbrothma.de  brine,  and  cover  it  With 
another  dilh,  and  ftew  it  fo  an  hour.  A  hanch  of  Ve- 
nifou.  may  be  done  the  fame  way. 


[  *°3  ] 

To  bake  Wild-Ducks  or  Teals. 

Seafon  your  Duck  and  Teal  with  Pepper  and 
Salt,  both  within  and  without,fo  much  as  you  think 
may  leafon  them  ;  then  crack  their  bones  with  a 
routing  pin  j  then  put  them  into  an  earthen  poc 
dole,  and  cover  them  with  Butter,  and  bake  them 
in  an  Oven  as  hot  as  for  bread,  and  let  them  ftand 
three  or  four  hours  ;  when  you  take  them  out  of 
the  Oven,  pour  out  all  the  liquor  from  them,  then 
melt  fo  much  Butter  as  will  cover  them ;  when  yon 
have  melted  your  Butter,  let  it  Hand  a  while,  until 
all  the  drofsbe  fetled  to  the  bottom,  and  put  in  the' 
clear  Butter,  which  muft  cover  the  Fowl. 

To  feafon  Humble-Pyes ,  and  to  roafi  Wri  Id-Duck*. 

Bake  Humble-Pyes  without  chopping  them  fmall 
in  a  Pye,  feafoned  with  Pepper  and  Salt,  adding  a 
pretty  deal  of  Parfley,  a  little  Sweet-marjoram 
and  Savory,  and  a  very  little  Thyme. 

Roaft  Wild-Ducks,  putting  into  their  Bellies 
fome  Sage  and  a  little  Onion  (Doth  well  ihreded) 
wrought  into  a  lump  with  Butter,  adding  a  little 
Pepper  and  Salt.  And  let  their  Sauce  be  a  little 
gravy  of  Mutton,  to  enlarge  the  leafoned  Gravy, 
that  comes  from  the  Ducks"  when  they  are  cut  up. 

To  fouce  Turkics. 

Take  a  good  fat  Turky  or  two,  drefs  them  clean, 
and  bone  them  ;  then  tie  them  up  in  the  manner  of 
Sturgeon  with  fomething  clean  wafhed.Take  your 
kettle,and  put  into  it  a  pottle  of  good  White-wine, 
a  quart  of  water,  and  a  quart  of  vinegar ;  make  it 


:  [204] 

boil,  and  feafon  it  with  Salt  pretty  well.  Then  put 
in  your  Turkies,  and  let  them  boil  till  they  be  very 
tender.  When  they  are  enough  boiled,  take  them 
out,  and  tafte  the  liquor 5  if  it  be  not  jfharp  enough 
put  more  Vinegar,  and  let  it  boil  a  little  5  then  put 
it  into  an  earthen  pot,  that  will  hold  both  Turkics. 
When  it  is  cold  enough,  and  the  Turkies  through 
cold,put  them  into  the  liquor  in  the  pot,  and  be  fure 
they  be  quite  covered  with  the  liquor.  Let  them  lie 
in  it  three  weeks  or  a  month,  thenferve  it  to  the 
table,  with  Fennel  on  it,  and  eat  it  with  Elder- vi¬ 
negar. 

You  may  do  a  Capon  or  two  put  together  in  the 
fame  manner  ;  but  lirft  larding  it  with  great  lar- 
dons  rowled  in  Pepper  and  Salt.  A  ihorter  time  ly¬ 
ing  in  the  pickle  will  ferve. 

An  excellent  meat  of  Goofe  or  Turkey . 

Take  a  fat  Goofe,  and  powder  it  with  Salt  eight 
or  ten  days  ;  then  boil  it  tender,  and  put  it  into 
pickle,  like  Sturgeon-pickle.  You  may  do  the  like 
With  a  very  fatTurky  ;  but  the  beft  pickle  of  that 
is,  the  Italian  marinating,  boiling  Mace,  Nutmegs 
&c.  in  it.  You  may  boil  Garlick  in  the  belly  of  the 
Fowls,  if  you  like  it,  or  in  the  pickle. 

To  pickje  an  old  fat  Goofe. 

Cut  it  down  the  back,  and  take  out  all  the 
bones  ;  lard  it  very  well  with  green  Bacon,  and 
feafon  it  well  with  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of 
Pepper,  half  an  ounce  of  Ginger,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  Cloves,  and  Salt,  as  you  judg  propor¬ 
tionable  ;  a  pint  of  White-wine  and  fome  But¬ 
ter.  Put  three  or  four  Bay-leaves  under  the  meat, 

and 


[  2SJ  ] 

and  bake  it  with  brown  bread ,  in  an  earthen  pot 
dole  covered ,  and  the  edges  of  the  cover  doled 
with  Pafte.  Let  it  Hand  three  or  tour  days  in  the 
pickle  j  then  eat  it  cold  with  vinegar. 

About  ordering  Bacon  for  Gammons 3  and  to  \fy&p. 

At  Frankfort  they  ufe  the  following  cautions  a- 
bout  the  Bacon,  they  fait  for  Gammons  or  tides  to 
keep.  The  belt  is  of  male  Hogs  of  two  years  old, 
that  have  been  gelt  when  they  were  young.  They 
kill  them  in  the  wane  of  the  Moon,  from  a  day  or 
two  after  the  full,  till  the  laft  quarter*  They  fetch 
of  their  hair  with  warm  water,  not  by  burning 
(which  melteth  the  fat,  and  maketh  it  apt  to  grow 
refty)  and  after  it  hath  lain  in  the  open  air  a  full 
day,  they  fait  it  with  dry  Salt,  rubbing  it  in  well : 
Then  lay  what  quantity  you  Will  in  a  tubforfeven 
or  eight  days  ( in  which  time  the  Salt  dilfolVeth  to 
water )  then  take  it  out,  and  wipe  it  dry,  and  hang 
it  in  a  room  where  they  keep  fire,either  on  a  hearth 
or  that  fmoak  cometh  out  of  a  ftove  into  the  roofh 
(asmoftof  thofe  rooms  do  tmoak)  but  hang  them 
not  in  the  Chimney,  that  the  hot  fmoak  ltriketh 
upon  them  5  but  if  you  have  a  very  large  Chim¬ 
ney,  hang  them  pretty  high  and  afide,  that  the 
fmoak  may  not  come  full  upon  them.  After  a  while 
(when  they  aye  dry)  take  them  thence,  and  hang 
them  from  the  fmoak  in  a  dry  warm  roomv  When 
the  weather  groweth  warm,  as  in  Maj,  there  will 
drop  from  them  a  kind  of  melted  oyly  greafe,  and 
they  will  heat,  and  grow  refty,  if  not  remedied. 
Take  them  down  then,  and  lay  them  in  a  cold  dry 
place ,  with  hay  all  about  them,  that  one  may  not 
touch  another.  Change  the  Hay  every  thirty,  or 
twenty,  or  fifteen  days,  till  September,  that  the 

O  weather 


'  [  20 6  J 

weather  grovveth  cool  j  then  hang  them  up  again 
in  the  free  air ,  in  a  dry  Chamber.  If  you  make, 
the  ihoulders  into  Gambons,  you  mull  have  a  care 
to  cut  away  a  little  piece  of  flelh  within,  called  in 
Dutch  the  Maufe ;  for  if  that  remain  in  it,  the  Ba¬ 
con  will  grow  rufty. 

To  make  a  Tanfie. 

Take  Spinage,  Sprrel,  Tanfie,  Wheat,  a  quart 
of  Cream  ;  bread  .(the  quantity  of  a  two-penny 
loaf)  twenty  eggs,  and  half  the  whites,  one  Nut¬ 
meg,  half  a  pound  of  Sugar,  and  the  juyee  of  a 
couple  of  Limons.  Spinage  is  the  cheif  herb  to 
have  the  jnyce  j  wheat  alfo  is  very  good,  when  it 
is  young  and  tender.  You  muftnot  take  much  Sor¬ 
rel,  for  fear  of  turning  the  Cream ;  but  lefs  Tan¬ 
fie,  fo  little  that  it  may  not  tafte  diftin&ly  in  the 
compofition.  The  juyee  of  Limons  is  put  in  at  the 
end  of  all.  You  may  lay  thin  dices  of  Limon  upon 
the  Tanfie  made,  and  Sugar  upon  them. 

Another  way. 

Beat  twelve  eggs  ( fix  whites  put  away )  by  them- 
felves  exceeding  well  (two  or  three  hours),  fome- 
times  putting  in  a  fpoonful  6f  Cream  to  keep  them 
from  oyling ;  Then  mingle  them  well  with  a  quart 
of  Cream,  to  which  put  about  half  a  pint  of  juyee 
of  Spinage  (as  much  as  vyill  make  the  Cream 
green)  or  of  green  wheat,  and  four  fpoonfuls  of 
juyee  of  Tanfie,  one  Nutmeg  feraped  into  thin 
flices,  and  half  a  pound  of  Sugar  :  All  things  ex¬ 
ceeding  well  incorporated  together :  Fry  this  with 
freih  buttef,  no  more  than  to  glaze  the  pan  over, 
and  keep  the  Tanfie  from  fticking  to  the  pan. 


[  207  ] 

To  make  Cheefe-Cakes; 

Take  twelve  quarts  of  Miik  warm  from  the  Cow* 
turn  it  with  a  good  fpoonful  of  Runnet,  break  it 
well*  and  put  it  into  a  large  ftraincr*  in  which  rowl 
it  up  and  down*  that  all  the  whey  may  run  out  in¬ 
to  a  little  tub ;  when  all  that  will  is  run  out*  wring 
out  more.  Then  break  the  curds  well*  then  wring 
it  again  *  and  more  whey  will  come.  Thus  break 
and  wring  till  no  more  come.  Then  work  the  curds 
exceedingly  with  your  hand  in  a  tray*  till  they  be¬ 
come  a^ihort  uniform  pafte.  Then  put  to  it  the 
yolks  or  eight  new  laid  eggs*  and  two  whites*  and 
a  pound  of  butter.  Work  all  this  long  together. 
In  the  long  working  (at  the  feveral  times)  confift- 
cth  the  making  them  good.  Then  feal’on  them  to 
your  tafte  with  Sugar  "finely  bearen*and  put  in  fome 
Cloves  and  Mace  in  fubtile  powder.  Then  lay  them 
thick  ia  coffins  of  fine  pafte,  and  bake  them. 

Short  and  crifp  Cruft  for  Tarts  aud  Pyes . 

To  half  a  peck  of  fine  flower  take  a  pound  and 
half  of  Butter ,  in  this  manner.  Put  your  butter 
wirh  at  leaft  three  quarts  of  cold  water  (it  imports 
not  how  much  or  how  little  the  water  is)  into  a 
little  kettle  to  melt,  and  boil  gently  ;  as  foon  as  it 
is  melted*  feum  off  the  butter  with  a  ladle,  pouring 
it  by  ladlefuls  (one  a  little  after  another*  as  you 
knead  it  with  the  flower)  to  fome  of  the  flower* 
which  you  take  not  all  at  once*  that  you  may  the  . 
better  difeern  how  much  liquor  is  needful)  and 
work  it  very  well  into  pafte.  When  all  your  But¬ 
ter  is  kneaded*  with  as  much  of  the  flower*  as 
lierves  tp  make  pafte  of  a  fitting  confluence*  take  of 

O  2  til  3 


t io8  ] 

the  water  that  the  Butter  was  melted  in*  fo  much 
as  to  make  the  reft  of  the  flower  into  pafte  of  due 
confidence  ;  then  joyn  it  to  the  pafte  made  with 
Butter,  and  work  them  both  very  well  together ;  of 
this  make  your  covers  and  coffins  thin.If  you  are  to 
make  more  pafte  for  more  Tarts  or  Pyes,  the  wa¬ 
ter  that  hath  already  ferved,  will  lerve  again  bet¬ 
ter  then  fre  fh. 

To  make  Goofe-pyes ,  and  fuch  of  thick  cruft , 
you  muft  put  at  leaft  two  pound  of  Butter  to  half 
a  peck  of  flower.  Put  no  more  Salt  ro  your  pafte 
then  what  is  in  the  butter,  which  muft  be  the  beft 
new  Butter  that  is  fold  in  the  Market. 

To  malt?  a  Cake, 

Take  eight  Wine-quarts  of  flower,  one  pound 
of  loaf  Sugar  beaten  and  leaded one  ounceof 
Mace,  beat  it  very  fine  :  then  take  thirty  eggs,  fif¬ 
teen  whites ,  beat  them  well ;  then  put  to  them  a 
quart  of  new  Ale-yeaft ;  beat  them  very  well  to¬ 
gether,  and  ftrain  them  into  your  flower :  then 
take  a  pint  of  Rofe-water ,  wherein  fix  grains  of 
Ambergreece  and  Musk  have  been  over  nig-ht.Then 
take  a  pint  and  half  of  Cream  or  fomething  more, 
andfetiton  the  fire,  and  put  into  it  four  pounds 
and  three  quarters  of  Butter  ;  and  when  it  is  all 
melted,  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  ftir  it  about,  until 
it  be  pretty  cool  ;  and  pour  all  into  your  flower, 
and  ftir  it  up  quick  with  your  hands,  like  a  lith 
pudding  :  Then  dufta  little  flour  over  it,  and  let  it 
ftand  covered  with  a  Flannel ,  or  other  woollen 
cloth,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  the  fire,  that  it 
may  rife.  Then  have  ready  twelve  pounds  of  cur- 
rans  very  well  wafhed  ancl  pick’t ,  that  there  may 
be  neither  ftalks  nor  broken  curransr  in  them.  Then- 

let 


[  2°9  ] 

let  your  currans  be  very  well  dried  before  the  fire, 
and  put  warm  into  your  Cake ,  then  mingle  them 
well  together  with  your  hands  5  then  get  a  tin  hoop 
that  will  contain  that  quantity,  and  butter  it  well, 
and  put  it  upon  two  lhects  of  paper  well  buttered  > 
fo  pour  in  your  Cake,  and  fo  let  it  into  the  Oven, 
being  quick  that  it  may  be  wellfoaked,  but  not  to 
burn.  It  muft  bake  above  an  hour  and  a  quarter  ; 
near  an  hour  and  a  half.  Take  then  a  pound  and 
half  of  double  refined  Sugar  purely  beaten  and 
fearfed  5  put  into  it  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  two 
or  three  lpoonfuls  of  Role-water  j  keep  it  a  beat¬ 
ing  all  the  time  that  the  Cake  is  a  baking,  which 
will  be  two  hours  .*  Then  draw  your  Cake  out  of 
the  Oven,  and  pick  the  dry  currans  from  the  top 
of  it,  and  fo  fpread  all  that  you  have  beaten  over 
it  very  fmootn,  and  Yet  it  a  little  into  the  Oven, 
that  it  may  dry. 

Another  Cal^e. 

Take  three  pounds  and  an  half  of  flower,  one 
penny-worth  of  Cloves  and  Mace,  and  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  Sugar  and  Salt,  and  ftrew  it  on  the 
flour.  Then  take  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  well  beat¬ 
en,  with  a  fpoonful  and  half 'of  Role -water  : 
Then  take  a  pint  of  thick  Cream,  and  a  pound  of 
Butter  .•  melt  them  together,  and  when  it  is  fc,take 
three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  Ale-yeaft,  and  mingle 
the  yeaft  and  eggs  together.  Then  take  the  warm 
liquor,  and  mingle  all  together ;  when  you  have 
done,  take  all  and  pour  it  in  the  boul,  and  fo  cover 
the  flour  over  the  liquor  5  then  cover  the  pan  with 
a  napkin,  and  when  it  is  rifen,  take  four  pounds  of 
currans,  well  wafhed  and  dried ,  and  halt  a  pound 
of  Raifinsof  the  Sun  fliced,  and  let  them  be  well 

O  3  .  dried 


dried  and  hot,  and  fo  ftir  them  im  When  it  is  rifen, 
have  your  Oven  hot  againft  the  Cake  is  made  ;  let 
it  Hand  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  When  it  is  half 
baked,  iee  it  over  with  fine  Sugar  and  Rofe-water, 
and  the  whites  of  Eggs,  and  Musk  and  Amber- 
greeee. 

When  you  mingle  your  yeaft  and  eggs  together 
for  the  Cake,  put  Musk  and  Amber  to  that* 

To  niakt  a  Plum-Cake. 

Take  a  peck  of  flour,  and  part  it  in  half.  Then 
take  two  quarts  of  good  Ale-*yeaft,  and  ftrain  it  in¬ 
to  half  the  flour,  and  fome  new  milkboile  f  ,and  al- 
moft  cold  again  j  make  it  into  a  very  light  pafte, 
and  fet  it  before  the  fire  to  rile  :  Then  take  five 
pound  of  Butter,-  and  melt  it  in  a  skillet ,  with  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  Rofe-water  when  your  pafte 
is  rifen,  and  your  Oven  almoft  hot,  which  will  be 
by  this  time,take  your  pafte  from  the  fire,and  break 
it  into  fmall  pieces,  and  take  your  other  part  of 
flour,  and  ftrew  it  round  your  pafte.  Then  take 
the  melted  Butter,  and  put  it  to  the  pafte,  and  by 
degrees  work  the  pafte  and  flour  together,  till  you 
have  mingled  all  very  wtdl.  Take  fix  Nutmegs, 
fome  Cinnamon  and  Mace  well  beaten ,  and  two 
pound  of  Sugar,  and  ftrew  it  into  the  pafte,  as 
they  are  a  working  it.  Take  three  pounds  of  Rai- 
fins  ftoned,  and  twelve  pounds  of  Currans  very 
well  walhed  and  dried  again;  one  pound  of  Dates 
fliced ;  half  a  pound  of  green  Citron  dryed  and 
diced  very  thin  :  ftrew  all  thefe  into  the  pafte,  till 
it  have  received  them  all :  Then  let  your  Oven  be 
ready,  and  make  up  your  Cake,  and  fet  it  into  the 
Oven  ;  but  vou  mult  have  a  great  care  it  doth  not 
?ake  cold.  Then  to  ice  it,  take  a  pound  and  half  of 

double 


double  refined  Sugar  beaten  and  fearfed  1  the 
whites  of  three  new-laid  eggs,  and  a  little  Orange* 
fknver-Water,with  a  little  Musk  and  Ambergreeee 
beaten  and  fearfed,  and  put  to  your  Sugar ;  Then 
ftrew  your  Sugar  into  the  eggs,and  beat  it  in  a  ftone 
Mortar  with  a  wooden  pcltie,  till  it  be  as  white  as 
fnow,  which  will  be  by  that  time  the  Cake  is  ba¬ 
ked  ;  then  draw  it  to  the  Ovens  mouth,  and  drop 
it  on^  in  what  form  you  will  j  let  it  ftand  a  little 
again  in  the  Oven  to  harden; 

To  make  an  excellent  Cake. 

To  a  peck  of  fine  flour,  take  fix  pounds,of  frefh 
butter,  which  muft  be  tenderly  melted,  ten  pounds 
of  Currans^  of  Cloves  and  Mace>  half  qu  ounce 
of  each;  an  ounce  of  Cinnamon,  half  an  ounce 
of  Nutmegs,  four  ounces  of  Sugar ,  one  pint  of 
Sack  mixed  with  a  quart  at  leaft  of  thick  barm  of 
Ale  (as  foon  as  it  is  letled,  to  have  the  thick  fall  to 
the  bottom,  which  will  be ,  when  it  is  about  two 
days  old)  half  a  pint  of  Role-water  ;  half  a  quar¬ 
ter  of  an  ounce  ol  Saffron.  Then  make  your  pafte# 
ftrewiii  the  Spices  finely  beaten,  upon  the  flower  : 
Then  put  the  melted  butter  (but  even  juft  melted) 
to  it ;  then  the  barm  and  other  liquors ;  and  put 
it  into  the  Oven  well  heated  prefently  For  the 
better  baking  of  it,  put  it  in  a  hoop ,  and  let  it 
ftand  in  the  Oven  one  hour  and  half.  You  icc  the 
Cake  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  a  fmall  quan¬ 
tity  of  Rofe-water,  and  fome  Sugar. 

To  make  Bisket, 

To  half  a  peck  of  flower,  take  three  fpoonfuls  of 
barm,  two  ounces  of  feeds  j  Annil'eeds  or  Fennel- 

O  4  feeds. 


[M*l 

feeds.  Make  the  pafte  very  ftiff  ,  with  nothing  but 
water,  and  dry  it  (they  muft  not  have  fo  much  heat 
as  to  make  them  rile,  but  only  dry  by  degrees  ;  as 
in  an  Oven  after  Manchet  is  taken  out,  or  a  gentle 
fto  ve)  in  flat  Cakes  very  well  in  an  Oveo  or  ftove. 

To  make  a  Caraway -Cake. 

Take  three  pound  and  a  half  of  the  fineft  flour, 
and  dry  it  in  an  Oven ,  one  pound  and  a  half  of 
fweet  butter,  and  mix  it  with  the  flour,  untill  it  be 
crumbled  very  fmall,  that  none  of  it  be  feen :  then 
take  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  new  Ale-yeaft,  and 
half  a  pint  of  Sack,  and  half  a  pint  of  new-milk  ; 
fix  fpoonfuls  of  Rofe-water ,  four  yolks  and  two 
whites  of  eggs :  Then  let  it  lie  before  the  fire  half 
an  hour  or  more.  And  when  you  go  to  make  it  up, 
put  in  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Caraway-com¬ 
fits,  and  a  pound  and  half  of  Biskets.  Put  it  into 
the  Oven,  and  let  itftandan  hour  and  half. 

Another  very  good  Cake . 

Take  four  quarts  of  fine  flour ,  two  pound  and 
half  of  Butter,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Su¬ 
gar,  four  Nutmegs,  a  little  Mace,  ajpound  of  Al¬ 
monds  finely  beaten,  half  a  pint  of  Sack,  a  pint  of 
good  Ale-yeaft,  a  pint  of  boiled  Cream,  twelve 
yolks ,  and  four  whites  of  eggs ;  four  pound  of 
Currans.  When  you  have  wrought  all  thefe  into  a 
very  fine  pafte ,  let  it  be  kept  warm  before  the  fire^ 
half  an  hour,  before  you  fet  it  into  the  Oven.  It 
you  pleafe,  you  may  put  into  it  two  pound  of  Rai- 
fins  of  the  Sun  ftoned  and  quartered.  Let  your  Oven 
be  of  a  temperate  hear,  and  let  your  Cake  :  ftand 
therein  two  hours  and  a  half,  before  you  ice  it ; 


[  2I3  1 

and  afterwards  only  to  harden  the  ice.  The  ice  for 
tnis  Cake  is  rnade  thus.  Take  the  whites  of  three 
new-laid  eggs,,  and  three  quarters  ol  a  pound  of 
fine  Sugar  finely  beaten ;  beatit  well  together  with 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  ice  the  Cake.  If  you 
pleafe  you  may  add  a  little  Musk  or  Ambergreece. 

Excellent  fmall  Cakes. 

Take  three  pound  of  very  fine  flour  well  dried 
by  the  fire,  and  put  to  it  a  pound  and  half  of  loaf- 
Sugar  fitted  in  a  very  fine  five  and  dried:  three 
pounds  of  Currans  well  wathed  and  dried  in  a  cloth 
and  let  by  the  fire  ;  When  your  flour  is  well  mix¬ 
ed  with  the  Sugar  and  Currans,  you  muft  put  in  it 
a  pound  and  half  of  unmelted  butter ,  ten  fpoon- 
fuls  of  Cream,  with  the  yolks  ot  three  new-laid 
eggs  beat  with  it,_  one  Nutmeg,  and  if  you  pleafe, 
three  l'poonfuls  of  Sack.  W hen  you  have  wrought 
your  pafte  well,  you  muft  put  it  in  a  cloth,  and  fet 
it  in  adifh  before  the  fire,  till  it  be  through  warm. 
Then  make  them  up  in  little  Cakes,  and  prick  them 
full  of  holes  :  you  muft  bake  them  in  a  quick  Oven 
unclofed  :  Afterwards  ice  them  over  with  Sugar. 
The  Cakes  thould  be  about  the  bignefs  cf  a  hands 
breadth,  and  thin,  of  the  fize  of  the  Sugar  Cakes 
fold  at  Barnet. 

My  Lord  of  Denbigh’s  Almond  March-pane. 

Blanch  either  Nut-kernels  from  the  husks  in  the 
belt  manner  you  can.  Then  put  them  with  a  due 
proportion  of  Sugar ,  and  a  little  Orange-flower, 
or  Rofe-water.When  it  is  in  a  fitting  uniform  pafte, 
make  it  into  round  C;..kes,about  the  bignefs  otyour 
hand,  or  a  little  larger,  and  about  a  fingers  thick  9 


[  2t4 1 

arid  lay  eVcry  one  upon  a  fine  paper  cue  fie  to  it  j 
which  lay  upon  a  table.  You  mult  have  a  pan  like 
a  tourtiere,  made  to  contain  coals  on  the  top,  that 
is  flat,  with  edges  round  about  to  hold  in  the  coals> 
which  fet  over  the  Cakes ,  with  fire  upon  it.  Let 
this  remain  upon  the  Cakes,  till  you  conceive  it 
hath  dried  them  lufficicntly  for  once  j  which  may 
be  within  a  quarter  of  an  hour  j  but  you  take  it  off 
two  or  three  times  in  that  time,  to  lee  you  lcorch 
not  the  outfide,  but  only  dry  it  a  little.  Then  re¬ 
move  it  to  others  that  lie  by  them,  and  pull  the  pa¬ 
pers  from  the  firft,  and  turn  them  upon  new  papers. 
When  the  others  are  dried  enough,  remove  the  part 
back  to  the  firft,  to  dry  their  other  fide ;  which  be¬ 
ing  enough,  remove  it  back  to  the  fecond,  that  by 
this  time  are  turned,  and  laid  upon  new  papers. 
Repeat  this  turning  the  Cakes ,  and  changing  the 
pan,  till  they  arc  lufficicntly  dry  j  which  you  tnuft 
not  do  all  at  once,  left  you  lcorch  them  :  and  though 
the  outfide  be  dry,  the  infidc  muft  be  very  moift 
and  tender,  then  you  muft  ice  them  thus ;  Make  a 
thick  pap  with  Orange-flower  or  Rofe-water,  and 
pureff  white  Sugar  ;  a  little  of  the  whites  of  eggs, 
not  above  half  a  fpoonful  of  that  oyl  of  eggs,  to 
a  porrenger  full  of  thick  pap,  beaten  exceeding 
Well  with  it,  and  a  little  juice  of  Limons.  Lay  this 
finooth  upon  the  Cakes  with  a  knife,and  fmoothen 
it  with  a  leather.  Then  fet  the  pan  over  them  to 
dry  them.  Which  being,  if  there  be  any  unCven- 
nefs,  or  cracks,  or  difcoloaring,lay  on  a  little  more 
of  that  Mortar,  and  dry  it  as  before.  Repeat  this, 
till  it  be  as  clear,  and  fmooth,  and  white,  as  you 
Would  have  it.  Then  turn  the  other  hides,  and  do 
the  like  to  them.  You  muft  take  care,  not  to  fcorch 
them :  for  then  they  would  look  yellow  or  red,andi 
they  muft  be  pure ,  white ,  and  fmooth  like  fil- 

ver 


[  ] 

ver  between  poliihed  and  matte.,  or  like  a  looking- 
glafs.  This  Coat  preferves  the  fubftan'ce  of  chfc 
Cakes  within,  the  longer  moift.  You  may  beat 
diffolved  Amber ,  or  cflence  of  Cinnamon,  with 
them. 


To  make  Slip-coat  Cheefe. 

According  to  the  bignefs  of  your  moulds  proi 
portion  your  ftroakings  for  your  C-heefe-curds.  To 
fix  quarts  of  ftroakings,  take  a  pint  of  Spring-wa¬ 
ter  5  if  the  weather  be  hot,  then  let  the  water  be 
cold,  and  before  you  put  it  into  the  ftroakings,  let 
them  ftand  a  while  to  cool  after  they  are  milked', 
and  then  put  in  the  water,  with  a  little  Salt  firft  ftir- 
red  in  it ,  and  having  ftirred  it  well  together,  let 
it  ftand  a  little  while,  and  then  put  in  about  two 
good  fpoonfuls  of  Runnet,  ftir  it  well  together, 
and  cover  it  with  a  fair  linen  cloth,  and  when  it  is 
become  hard  like  a  thick  jelly,  with  a  skimming- 
dilh  lay  it  gently  into  the  moulds,  and  as  it  finks 
down  into  the  moulds,  fill  it  ftill  up  again,  till  all 
be  in.  Which  will  require  fome  three  or  four  hour* 
time.  Then  lay  a  clean  fine  cloth  into  another 
mould  of  the  fame  fize,  and  turn  it  into  it,  and 
then  turn  the  skirts  of  the  cloth  over  it ,  and  lay 
upon  that  a  thin  board ,  and  upon  that  as  much 
weight,  as  with  the  board  may  make  two  pound  or 
thereabouts.  And  about  an  hour  after,  lay  another 
clean  cloth  into  the  other  mould,  and  turn  the 
Cheefe  into  that ;  then  lav  upon  the  board  lb  much' 
as  will  make  it  fix  or  feven  pound  weight ;  and  thus 
continue  rurning  ot  it  till  night:  then  take  away 
the  weight,  and  lay  it  no  more  on  it ;  then  take  a 
very  lmall  quantity  of  Salt  finely  beaten,  and  fprin- 
kle  the  Cheefe  all  over  with  it  as  flightly  as  can  bs 


[  *»«  ] 

imagined.  Next  morning  turn  it  into  another  dry 
doth,  and  let  it  lie  out  of  the  mould  upon  a  plain 
board,  and  change  it  as  often  as  it  wets  theciothj 
Which  mult  be  three  or  four  times  a  day When  it  is 
ib  dry,  that  it  wets  the  cloth  no  more,  lay  it  upon  a 
,bed  of  green  rulhes,  and  lay  a  row  upon  it ;  but  be 
fure  to  pick  the  bents  clean  off,and  lay  them  even  all 
one  way :  if  you  cannot  get  good  rufhes,take  nettles 
orgrafs.  If  the  weather  is  cold,  cover  them  with  a 
linnen  and  woollen  cloth  j  in  cafe  you  cannot  get 
ftroaking§,.take  five  quarts  of  new  Miik,and  one  of 
Cream.Tft :he  weather  be  cold,  heat  the  water  that 
you  put  to  the  ftroakings.  T urn  the  Cheefe  every 
day,and  put  to  itfrelh  ofwhatfoever  you  keep  it  in. 
They  are  ufually  ripe  m  ten  days. 

Another . 

Mr.  Phillips  his  method  and  proportions  in  making 
Slip-coat  Cheefe,are  thefe.Take  fix  wine-quarts  of 
ftroakings  and  two  quarts  ol  Cream  >  mingle  thefe 
well  together,  and  let  them  ftand  in  a  bowl  till  they 
are  cola.  Then  pour  upon  them  three  pints  ol  boil¬ 
ing  fair  water,  and  mingle  them  well  together ; 
then  let  them  ftand  till  they  arc  almoft  cold,  colder 
then  milk- warm.  Then  put  to  it  a  moderate  quan¬ 
tity  of  Runner,  made  with  fair  water  (not  whey, 
or  any  other  thing  then  water  5  this  is  an  important 
point)  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  come.  Have  a  care  not 
10  break  the  Curds,  nor  ever  to  touch  them  with 
your  hands,  but  only  with  your  skimming  difh.  In 
due  time  lade  the  Curds  with  the  difh,  into  a  thin 
fine  napkin,  held  up  by  two  perfons,  that  the  whey 
may  run  from  them  through  the  bunt  ol  the  Napkin, 
Which  you  rowl  gently  about,  that  the  Curds  may 
dry  without  breaking.  When  the  whey  is  well  drai- 


[  217  ] 

ned  output  the  curds  as  whole  as  you  can  into  the 
Cheefe-lat,  upon  a  napkin  in  the  fat.  Change  the 
Napkin,  and  turn  the  Cheefe  every  quarter  of  an 
hour,  and  lels,  for  ten,  twelve  or  fourteen  times ; 
that  is,  ftill  as  foon  as  you  perceive  the  Napkin  wet 
with  the  whey  running  from  the  curds.  Then  prefs 
it  with  a  half  pound  weight  for  two  or  three  hours, 
Then  add  halt  a  pound  more  for  as  long  time,  then 
another  half  pound  for  as  long,  and  laftly  another 
half  pound,  which  is  two  pounds  in  all }  which 
weignt  muft  never  be  exceeded.  The  next  day, 
(when  about  twenty  four  hours  are  paft  in  all )  fait 
your  Cheefe  moderately  with  white  Salt,  and  then 
turn  it  but  three  or  four  times  a  day,  and  keep  it  in 
a  cotton  cloth,  which  will  make  it  mellow  and 
fweet,  not  rank,  and  will  prelerve  the  coat  fmooth. 
It  may  be  ready  to  eat  in  about  twelve  days.  Some 
lay  it  to  ripen  in  Dock-leaves,  and  it  is  not  amifs  ; 
but  that  in  rain  they  will  be  wet,which  moulds  the 
Cheefe.  Others  in  flat  fit  boxes  of  wood,  turning 
them,  as  is  faid,  three  or  four  times  a  day.  But  a 
cotton  cloth  is  beft.  This  quantity  is  for  a  round 
large  Cheefe,  of  about  thebignefsof  al'ale  teq 
penny  Cheefe,  a  good  fingers  breadth  thick.  Long 
broad  grafs  ripeneth  them  well,  and  fucketh  out 
the  moifture.  Rulhes  are  good  alio.  They  are  hot, 
but  dry  not  the  moifture  lb  well. 

My  Lady  Middlefex  makes  excellent  flip-coat 
Cheefe  of  good  morning  milk,  putting  Cream  to  it. 
A  quart  of  Cream  is  the  proportion  Ihe  uleth  to  as 
much  milk,  as  both  together  make  a  large  round 
Cheefe  of  the  bignefs  of  an  ordinary  Tart-plate, 
or  Cheefe-plate ;  as  big  as  an  ordinary  foft  Cheefe, 
that  the  Market-women  fell  for  ten  pence.  Thus 
for  want  of  ftroakings  at  London ,  you  may  take  one 
part  of  Cream  to  five  or  fix  of  morning  Milk,  and 


for  the  reft  proceed  as  with  ftroakings ;  and  theft 
will  prove  as  good. 

Slif-coat  Cbeefe. 

Take  three  quarts  of  the  laft  of  the  ftroakings  of 
as  many  Cows  as  you  have  5  keep  it  covered,  that 
It  may  continue  warm  ;  put  to  it  a  skiming  difh- 
ful  of  Spring-water  ;  then  put  in  two  l'poonfuls  of 
Runnet,  folet  ftand  until  it  be  hard  come :  when 
ft  is  hard  come,  fee  your  fat  on  the  bottom  of  a 
hair-fieve,  take  it  up  by  degrees,but  break  it  not ; 
when  you  have  laid  it  all  in  the  fat,  take  a  fine  cloth, 
and  lay  ft  over  the  Cheefe,  and  work  it  in  about 
the  fide^j  with  the  back  of  a  Knilc  ;  then  lay  a 
board  on  it,  for  half  an  hour  :  after  half  an  hour, 
fet  on  the  board  an  half  pound  ftone,  fo  let  it  ftand 
two  hours,  then  turn  it  on  that  board,  and  let  the 
doth  beiboth  under  and  over  it,  then  put  it  into  the 
fat  again  j  then  lay  a  pound  and  hall  weight  on  it : 
Two  hours  after  turn  it  again  on  a  dry  cloth ,  and 
fait  it  j  then  fet  on  it  two  pound  weight,  and  let 
it  ftand  until  the  next  morning.  Then  turn  it  out 
of  the  Cheefc-fat,  on  a  dry  board,  and  fo  keep  it 
with  turning  on  dry  boards  three  days.  In  cafe  it 
run  abroad,you  muft  fet  it  up  with  wedges  ;  when 
it  begins  to  ftiffen,  lay  green  grafs  orruftiesupon 
it :  when  it  is  ft  iff  enough,  let  rulhes  be  laid  both 
under  and  over  it.  If  this  Cheefe  be  rightly  made, 
and  the  weather  good  to  dry  it,  it  will  be  ready  in 
eight  days :  but  in  cafe  it  doth  not  dry  well,  you 
muft  lay  on  it  a  linen  cloth,  and  woollen  upon  it, 
fo  haften  the  ripening  of  ft. 


[  219  ] 


To  make  a  fcalded  Cheefe . 

Take  fix  gallons  of  ncw-milk,put  to  it  two  quarts 
of  the  evening  Cream  ;  then  put  to  it  good  Runnet 
for  Winter  Cheefe  ;  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  even  well, 
then  fink  it  as  long  as  you  can  get  any  Whey  out ; 
then  put  it  into  your  fat,  and  fet  it  in  the  pref$,and 
let  it  ftand  half  an  hour  :  in  this  time  turn  it  once. 
When  you  take  it  out  of  the  '•refs,  fet  on  the  fire 
two  gallons  of  the  lame  A^iey:  then  put  your 
Cheek  in  a  big  bowl,  break  t  le  curd  as  final!  with 
your  hawds  as  you  do  your  Cheefe-cakes  :  when 
your  Whey  is  lcalding  hot,  take  off  the  fcum  ;  lay 
your  ftrainer  over  the  curd,  and  put  in  your  whey ; 
take  a  flicc,  and  ftir  up  your  curd,  that  it  may  feald 
all  alike ;  pot  in  as  much  whey  as  will  cover  it  well; 
if  you  find  that  cold,  put  it  out,  and  put  in  more  to 
it  that  is  hot.  Stir  it  as  before,  then  cover  it  with  a 
linnen  and  woollen  cloth ;  then  fet  fome  new  whey 
on  the  fire,  put  in  your  Cheefe-fat  and  futer  and 
cloth  :  After  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  take  up 
the  curd,  and  put  it  into  the  Cheefe-fat,  as  faft  as 
two  can  work  it  in :  then  put  it  into  the  hot  cloth, 
and  fet  it  in  the  Prefs.  Have  a  care  to  look  to  it , 
and  after  a  while  turn  it,  and  fo  keep  it  in  the  prefs 
with  turning  till  the  next  day  :  then  take  it  forth 
and  fait  it. 


The  Cream  Curdi. 


Strain  your  whey,  and  fet  it  on  the  fire ;  make  a 
clear  and  gentle  fire  under  the  kettle ,  as  they  rife, 
put  in  whey,  fo  continuing  ,  till  they  are  ready  to 
skim. Then  take  your  skiminer,and  put  them  on  the 
bottom  of  a  hair-fieve  :  fo  let  them  drain  till  they 

arc 


[  220  } 

are  cold.  Then  take  them  off,  and  put  them  into 
abafin,  and  beat  them  with  three  or  four  fpoonfuls 
of  Cream  and  Sugar. 

Savory  toajled  or  molted  Cheefe. 

Cut  pieces  of  quick,fat,  rich,  well  tailed  Cheefe, 
(a$  the  bell  of  Brye,  Cheshire ,  &c,  or  fharp,  thick, 
Cream-checfe)  intoadilhof  thick  beaten  melted 
Butter,  that  hath  ferved  for  Sparages,  or  the  like, 
or  Peal'e,or  other  boiled  Sailer,  or  ragout  of  meat, 
or  gravy  of  Mutton :  and  if  you  will,  chop  i'omeof 
the  Alparages  among  it ,  or  dices  of  Gammon  of 
Bacon,  or  frefh  collops,  or  Onions,  or  Sibboulets, 
or  Anchoves,  and  let  all  this  to  melt  upon  a  Cha- 
fing-difh  of  Coals,  and  Hi r  all  well  together,  to 
incorporate  them;  and  when  all  is  of  an  equal 
confidence,  drew  fome  grofs  white-pepper  on  it, 
and  eat  it  with  tolls  or  crults  of  white-bread.  You 
may  fcorch  it  at  the  top  with  a  hot  fire- /hovel. 

To  feed  Chickens. 

Firft  give  them  for  two  days,  pslle  made  of  Ear- 
Icy  meal  &  milk  with  clyllcr  Sugar  to  lcour  rherp. 
Then  feed  them  with  nothing  but  hafhed  Raifms  of 
the  Sun.  The  lefs  drink  they  have,  the  better  iris  : 
for  it  walheth  away  their  fat ;  but  that  little  they 
have,  let  it  be  broken  beer ;  milk  were  as  goqd  or 
better ;  but  then  you  mull  be  careful  to  have  it  al¬ 
ways  fweet  in  their  trough,  and  no  fowrnefs  there 
to  turn  the  milk.  They  will  be  prodigioufly  fat  in 
about  twelve  days  :  and  you  mull  kill  them,  when 
they  are  at  their  height ;  elfe  they- will  foonfall 
back,  and  grow  fat  no  more. 

Others  make  their  Pafter  of  Barley-meal  with 

milk 


[  »I  ] 

milk  and  a  little  coarfe  Sugar,  and  mingle  with  it  a 
little  (about  an  eighth  part)  of  powcterof  green 
glafs  beaten  very  fmall.  Give  this  only  for  two 
days  to  cleanfe  their  ftomachs.  Then  feed  them 
with  Pafte  of  Barley-meal :  made  l'ometimes  with 
Milk  and  Sugar,  ana  fometinies  with  the  fat  skim¬ 
med  off  from  the  pot,  giving  tnem  drink  as  above. 

Others  make  a  pretty  ft  iff  pafte  for  them  with 
Barley-meal  fa  little  of  the  coarfcft  bran  lifted 
from  it)  and  the  fat  feummed  off  from  the  boiling 
rot,  be  it  of  Beef  (even  halted)  or  Mutton, 

Lay  this  before  them  for  their  food  for  four  days. 
Then  give  them  ftiU  the  fame ,  but  mingled  with 
a  little  powder  of  glafs  for  four  or  five  days  more. 
In  which  time  they  will  be  extreamly  fat  and  good, 
For  their  drink,  give  them  the  droppings  ofgood 
Ale  or  good  Beer.  When  you  eat  them,  you  will 
find  fome  of  the  powder  of  glafs  in  their  fto¬ 
machs,  i.  e.  gizzards. 

To  feed  Poultrey. 

y 

My  Lady  Fanfbatvs  way  of  feeding  Capons,  Pul¬ 
lets,  Hens,  Chicken  or  Turkies,  is  thus Mave 
Coops,  wherein  every  Fowl  is  apart,and  not  room 
to  turn  in,  and  means  to  cleanfe  daily  the  ordure 
behind  them f  and  two  troughs  >  for  before  that , 
.one  may  be  fcafding  and  drying  the  day  the  other  is 
ufed  j  and  before  every  Fowl  one  partition  for 
meat,  another  for  drink.  All  their  mcar  is  this  5 
Boil  Barley  in  water,  till  it  be  tender,  keep  fome  fo, 
and  another  parcel  of  it  boil  with  Milk ,  and  an¬ 
other  with  ftrong  Ale.Lct  them  be  boiled  as  wheat 
that  is  dried,  life  them  different  days  for  variety, 
to  get  the  Fowl  appetite.  Lay  it  in  their  trough^ 
with  fome  brown  Sugar  mingled  with  it.  In  the 

P  parti- 


1 >>*] 

partition  for  liquor,  let  them  have  water  or  ftrong 
Xle  to  drink.  They  will  be  very  drunk,  andfleep  5 
then  eat  again.  Let  a  candle  ftanct  all  night  over 
the  Coop,  and  then  they  will  eat  much  in  the  night. 
With  this  coarfe  they  will  be  prodigioully  fat  in  a 
fortnight.  Be  lure  to  keep  them  very  fweet.  This 
maketh  the  tafte  pure. 

Another  way  of  feeding  Chickens. 

Take  Barley-meal,  and  with  droppings  oi  fmall 
Ale  ("or  Ale  it  fell)  make  it  into  a  confidence  of 
batter  for  Pan-cakes.  Let  this  be  all  their  food. 
Which  put  into  the  troughs  before  them,  renewing 
it  thrice  a  day,  morning,  noon,  and  evening  ;  ma¬ 
king  their  troughs  very  clean  every  time,  and  keep¬ 
ing  their  Coops  always  very  clean  and.  fweet.  This 
is  to  ferve  them  for  drink  as  well  as  meat,  and  no 
other  drink  be  given  them.Feed  them  thus  fix  days, 
the  feventh  give  them  nothing  in  their  troughs  but 
powder  of  brick  fearfed,  which  fcowreth  &  clean- 
feth  them  much,  and  makes  their  flclh  exceeding 
white.'  The  next  day  fall  to  their  former  food  for 
fix  days  more,  and  the  feventh  again  to  powder  of 
brick.  Then  again  ro  Barley-meal  and  Ale.  Thus 
they  will  be  exceeding  fat  in  fifteen  days,  and  pure¬ 
ly  white  and  lweet. 

To  fatten  young  Chickens  in  a  wonderful  degree. 

Boil  Rice  in  Milk  till  it  be  very  tender  and  pul¬ 
py,  as  when  you  make  milk  potage.lt  muft  be  thick, 
nlrnoft  fo  thick  that  a  lpoon  may  ftand  an  end  -in  it. 
Sweeten  this  very  well  with  ordinary  Sugar.  Put 
this  into'  their  troughs  where  they  feed,  that  they 
may  be  always  eating  of  it.  It  muft  be  made  frefti 
•  1  •  '  every 


[  «3  ] 

every  day.  Their  drink  muft  be  only  milk,  -in  an¬ 
other  little  trough  by  their  meat  trough.  Let  a 
candle  (fitly  diipofed)  ftand  by  them  all  night ;  for 
feeing  their  meat  they  will  eat  all  night  long.  You 
.  put  the  Chicken  up,  as  loon  as  they  can  feed  of 
themfelves  5  which  will  be  within  a  day  or  two  af¬ 
ter  they  are  hatched,  and  in  twelve  days,  or  a  fort¬ 
night,  they  will  be  prodigioufly  fat  3  but  after 
they  are  come  to  their  height ,  they  will  prcfently 
dal  1  back.  Therefore  they  muft  be  eaten  as  foon  as 
t&ey  are  come  to  their  height.  Their  Fen  or  Coop 
muft  be  contrived  fo,  that  the  Hen  (who  muft  be 
with  them,  to  fit  over  them)  may  not  go  at  liberty 
to  eat  away  their  mcat,butbe  kept  to  her  own  diet, 
in  a  part  of  the  Coop  that  fhe  cannot  get  out  of. 
-But  the  Chickens  muft  have  liberty  to  go  from  her 
,xo  other  parts  of  the  Coop,  where  they  may  eat 
their  own  meat,  and  come  in  again  to  the  Hen,  to 
be  warmed  by  her,  at  their  pleafure.  You  muft  b.e 
,  careful  to  keep  their  Coop  very  clean. 

To  feed  Chickens. 

Fatten  your  Chicken  the  firft  week  with  Oat¬ 
meal  fcaldcd  in  Milk,  the  lecond  with  Rice  and  Su¬ 
gar  in  Milk. In  a  fortnight  they  will  be  prodigioully 
fat.  It  is  good  to  give  them  fometimes  a  little  gra¬ 
vel,  or  powder  of  glal's,  to  cleanie  their  maws,  and 
give  them  appetite. 

If  you  put  a  little  bran  with  their  meat,  it  will 
kecp  their  maws  clean,  and  give  them  appetite. 

Another  excellent  way  to  fatten  Chickens. 

Boil  white  bread  in  Milk,  as  though  you  were  to 
{.eat  it  5  but  make  it  thick  of  the  bread,  which  is 

P  a  fiiced 


,  t  2H  1 

lliced  into  it  in  thin  dices.,  not  fo  thicfc  as  if  it  wcr£ 
to  make  a  pudding  ;  but  fo ,  that  when  the  bread 
is  eaten  out,  there  may  fome  liquid  Milk  remain 
for  the  Chicken  to  drink ;  or  that  at  firit  you  may 
take  up  fome  liquid  Milk  in  a  fpopn  ,  if  you  indu- 
ftrioufly  avoid  tne  bread :  fwecten  very  well  this 
forage  with  good  Kitchen  Sugar,  of  fix '  pence  a 
pound  ;  fo  put  it  into  the  trough  before  them .  Put 
there  but  a  little  at  a  time,  (two  or  three  fpoonfuls) 
that  you  may  not  clog  them ,  and  feed  them  five 
times  a  day,  between  their  wakening  in  the  morn¬ 
ing,  and  their  roofting  at  night.Give  them  no  other 
drink  j  the  Milk  that  remaineth  after  they  have 
eaten  the  bread,  is  fufficient  j  neither  give  them 
gravel,  or  ought  elfc.  Keep  their  Coops  very  clean, 
as  alfo  their  troughs,  cleanfing  them  very  well  eve¬ 
ry  morning.  To  half  a  dozen  very  little  Chickens, 
little  bigger  than  Black-birds,  an  ordinary  porren- 
ger  full  every  day  may  ferve.  And  in  cignt  days 
they  will  be  prodigioufly  fat  ;  one  penny  loaf,  and 
lels  then  two  quarts  of  Milk,  and  about  half  a 
pound  of  Sugar  will  ferve  little  ones  the  whole 
time.  Bigger  Chickens  will  require  more,  and  two 
or  three  days  longer  time.  When  any  of  them  are 
at  their  height  ot  fat,  you  muft  eat  them  ;  for  jf 
they  live  longer,  they  will  fall  back,and  grow  lean. 
Be  lure  to  make  their  potage  very  fweet. 

An  excellent  way  to  Cram  Chickens . 

Stone  a  pound  of  Raifins  of  the  Sun,  and  beat 
them  in  a  Mortar  to  pulp;  pour  a  quart  of  milk 
upon  them,  and  let  them  foak  lb  all  night.  Next 
morning  ftir  them  well  together,  and  Put  to  them 
fo  much  crums  of  grated  ftale  white  bread  as  to 
bring  it  to  a  foft  pafte,  work  all  well  together,  and. 


f  «{■  ] 

-ay  it  in  the  trough  before  the  Chicken  (which  muft 
hoc  be  above  fix  in  a  pen ,  and  keep  it  very  clean) 
and  let  a  candle  be  by  them  all  night.  The  delight 
of  this  meat  will  make  them  eat  continually  ;  and 
they  will  be  fo  fat  (when  they  are  but  of  the  big- 
nefs  of  a  Black-bird)  that  they  will  not  be  able  to 
ftand,  but  lie  down  upon  their  bellies  to  cat. 

To  feed  Partridge st  that  you  have  taken  wild. 

You  muft  often  change  their  Food,  giving  them 
but  of  one  kind  at  a  time ,  that  fo  their  appetites 
may  be  frefti  to  the  others,  when  they  are  weary 
of  the  prefent.  Sometimes  dry  wheat ;  fometimes 
Wheat  foaked  two  or  three  days  in  water,  to  make 
it  foft  and  tender  b  fometimes  Barley  lb  ufed  5 
fometimes  Oats  in  like  manner.  Give  them  conti¬ 
nually  to  lie  by  them,  fome  of  the  great  green 
leaves  of  Cabbages,  that  grow  at  the  bottom  of 
the  ftalk,  and  that  are  thrown  away,  when  you  ga- 
ther  the  Cabbage ;  which  you  may  give  them  ei¬ 
ther  whole  or  a  little  chopped.  Give  them  often 
Ants  and  their  eggs,  laying  near  them  the  inward 
mould  of  an  Ant-nill  taken  up  with  Ants  in  it. 

To  make  Puffs. 

Take  new-milk  Curds,  ftrained  well  from  the 
Whey.  5  then  rub  them  very  well  j  feafon  them 
With  Nutmeg,  Mace,Rofe-water  and  Sugar  j  then 
take  an  egg  or  two,  a  good  piece  of  Butter,  and 
a  handful  of  flour ;  work  all  together,  and  make 
theni  into  balls :  bake  them  in  an  Oven  upon  fheets 
pf  pat>Cr  :  when  they  are  baked,  ferve  them  up 
with  butter  melted  and  beaten  with  Rofe-water 
and  Sugar.  Inftead  of  flour,  you  may  take  fine 
grated  bread,  dried  very  well ,  butnotcrifp. 

P  3  Afllts 


[  2 £6  ] 


'Apples  in  Geliy , 

My  Lady  Paget >  makes  her  fine  preferred  Pipp'iris 
thus :  They  are  done  beft  ,  when  Pippins  are  in 
their  prime  for  quicknefs ,  which  is  in  November. _ 
Make  your  Pippin-water  as  ftrong  as  you  can  of 
the  Apples.,  and  that  it  may  be  the  lefs  boiled.,  and 
conlequentiy  the  paler,  put  in  at  firlt  the  greateft 
quantity  of  pared  and  quartered  Apples,  the  water 
will  bear.  To  every  pint  of  Pippin-water  add 
( when  you  put  the  Sugar  to  it)  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  fair  Spring-water,  that  will  bear  foap  (of  which 
ibrt  only  you  muft  ufe )  and  ufe  half  a  pound  of  Su¬ 
gar,  the  pureft  double  refined.  If  you  will  have 
much  gelly,  two  Pippins  finely  pared  and  whole, 
will  be  enough  ;  you  may  put  in  more,  if  you  will 
have  a  greater  proportion  of  fubftance  to  the  gellyi 
Put  at  firft  but  half  the  Sugar  to  the  liquor,  for 
fio  it  will  be  the  paler.  Boil  the  Apples  by  them-' 
felves  in  fair  water,  with  a  very  little  Sugar ,  -  to 
make  them  tender  ;  then  put  them  into  the  liquor 
and  the  reft,  the  other  half  of  the  Sugar  with  them. 
Boil  diem  with  a  quick  fire  till  they  be  enough,and 
the  liquor  do  gelly,  and  that  you  fee  the  Apples 
look  very  clear,  and  as  though  they  were  tranfpa- 
rent.  You  muft  put  the  juyee  of  two  Limons  and 
.half  an  Orange  to  this  in  due  time.  Every  Pippin 
fhould  be  lap'ped  over  in  a  broad  pill  of  Orange, 
which  you  muft  prepare  thus.  Parc  your  Orange 
broad  and  very  thin ,  and  all  hanging  together, 
xub  it  with  Salt,  prick  it,  and  boil  it  in  feveral 
waters,  to  take  away  the  bitterncs,  and  make  it 
tender.  Then  preferve  it  by  it  felf,  with  fufficient 
quantity  of  Sugar.  When  it  is  throughly  done,  and 
very  tender  (which  you  iliuft  c?dt  to  do  before** 

hand. 


t  **7  ] 

hand,  to  be  ready  when  the  Apples  are  ready  to 
be  put  up)  take  them  out  of  their  Syrup,  and  lap 
every  Pippin  in  an  Orange-peel,  and  put  them  in¬ 
to  a  pot  or  glafs,  and  pour  the  liquor  upon  them ; 
which  will  be  gelly  over  and  about  the  Apples, 
when  all  is  cold."  This  proportion  of  liquor.  Ap¬ 
ples,  and  Orange-peels,  will  take  up  about  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  Sugar  in  all.  If  you  would 
keep  them  any  time,  you  muft  put  in  weight  for 
weight  of  Sugar. 

I  conceive  John- Apples  initead  of  Pippins  will 
do  better,  both  for  gelly  and  fyrup  ;  efpecially  at 
the  latter  end  of  the  year  ;  and  I  like  them  thin 
diced,  rather  than  wholes  and  the  Orange-peels 
fcattered  among  them  in  little  pieces  or  chips. 

Syrup  of  Pippins. 

Quarter  and  core  your  Pippins,  then  flump  them 
in  a  Mortar,  and  flrain  out  tne  juyee.  Let  it  iede> 
that  the  thick  dregs  may  go  to  the  bottom ;  then 
pour  off  the  clear  s  and  to  have  it  more  clear  and 
pure,  filter  it  through  fucking  paper  in  a  glafs 
funnel.  To  one  pound  of  this  take  one  pound  and 
an  half  of  pure  double  refined  Sugar,  and  boil  it 
very  gently  (Icarce  fimpringjy,  and  but  a  very  lit¬ 
tle  while)  till  you  have  icummed  away  all  the  froth 
and  foulnefs  { which  will  be  but  little)  and  that  it 
be  of  the  confidence  of  Syrup.  If  you  put  two 
sound  of  Sugar  to  one  pound  of  juyee,  you  muft 
soil  it  morfe  and  ftronglier.  This  will  keep  lohger, 
sut  the  colour  is  not  fo  fine.  It  is  of  a  deeper  yel¬ 
low.  If  you  put  but  equal  parts  of  Juyee  and  Su¬ 
gar,  you  mull  not  boil  it,  but  fee  it  in  a  Cucurbits 
mbuUiente  Balnea ,  till  all  the  feum  be  taken  away, 
and  the  Sugar  well  diffolvcd.  This  will  be  very- 
pale  and  plcafant,  but  will  not  keep  long. 

P  4  You 


j>28] 

You  may  make  your  Syrup  with  a  fttong  deco- 
bfoon  of  Apples  in  water  (as  when  you  make  gelly 
of  Pippins)  when  they  are  green;  but  when  they  are 
old  and  meilow,the  lubftince  of  the  Apple  will  dif- 
l'olve  into  pap,  by  boiling  in  water. 

Take  three  or  four  fpoonfulsof  this  Syrup  in  a 
large  draught  of.  Fountain- water,  or  fmallPoflet- 
Ale,  pro  ardore  mince y  to  cool  and  ftnoothen  two 
©r  three  times  a  day. 

Geliy  of  Piffins  or  John- Af pies * 

Cut  your  Apples  into  quarters  (either  pared  of 
wnpared)  Boil  them  in  a  iufficient  quantity  of  wa¬ 
ter,  till  it  be  very  ftrong  of  the  Apples.  Take  the 
clear  liquor,  and  put  to  it  fufficient  Sugar  to  make 
gelly  5  and  the  flices  of  Apples';  fo  boil  them  all 
together,  till  the  flices  be  enough,  and  the  liquor 
gelly ;  or  you  may  boil  the  flices  in  Apple-liquor 
without  Sugar,  and  make  gelly  of  other  liquor, 
and  put  the  flices  into  it,  when  it  is  gelly,  and  they 
be  fufficiently  boiled.  Either  way,  you  muft  put  ac 
the  laft  forne  juyee  of  Limon  to  it ;  and  Amber 
and  Musk  if  you  will.  You  may  do  it  with  halves  or 
quartered  Apples,  in  deep  giafles,  with  ftoreof 
gelly  about  them-  To  have  thefe  clear,  take  the 
pieces  out  of  the  gelly  they  are  boiled  in,  with  a 
llice,fo  as  you  may  have  all  the  rags  run  from  them, 
and  then  put  neat  dean  pieces  into  clear  gelly. 

Prefervcd  War  dens. - 

Pare  and  core  the  Wardens,  and  put  a  little  of 
the  thin  rind  of  a  Limon  into  the  hole  that  the  core 
leaveth.  To  every  pound  of  Wardens,  take  half  a 
pound  of  Sugar,  and  half  a  pint  of  water.  Make  a 

Syrup 


[  i*9  1 

Syrup  of  your  Sugar  and  Water  j  when  it  is  $relf 
icummed,  put  it  into  a  Pewter  difh,  and  your  War¬ 
dens  into  the  Syrup,  and  coverdt with  another 
pewter  dilh  j  and  fo  let  this  boil  very  gently,  or 
rather  flew,  keeping  it  very  well  covered*  that  the 
fleam  get  out  as  little  as  may  be.  Continue  this,  till 
the  Wardens  are  very  tender,  and  very  red,  which 
may  be  in1  five,  or  fix,  or  feven  hours.  Then  boil 
them  up  to  the  heighth  the  lyrup  ought  to  be  to 
keep ;  Which  yet  will  not  be  well  above  three  or 
four  months.The  whole  fecret  of  making  them  red, 
confideth  in  doing  them  in  pewter,  which  fpoileth 
other  preferves ;  and  in  any  other  metal  thefe  will 
not  be  red.  If  you  will  have  any  Amber  in  them, 
you  may  to  ten  or  twelve  pound  ofWardens,put  in 
about  twenty  grains  of  Amber,  and  one,  or  at 
mofl,  two  grains  of  Musk,  ground  with  a  little 
Sugar,  and  lb  putin  at  the  lad.  Though  the  War¬ 
dens  be  not  covered  over  with  the  lyrup  in  the 
flewing  by  a  good  deal ,  yet  the  fleam  that  riferh 
and  cannot  get  out,  but  circulated,  will  ferve  both 
to  flew  them,  and  to  make  them  red  and  tender. 

Sweet  meat  of  Apples. 

My  Lady  Barclay ,  makes  her  fine  Apple-gelly 
Wirh  llices  of  John- Apples ,  fometimes  fhe  mingles 
a  few  Pippins  with  the  Johns  to  make  the  gelly. 
But  lhe  liketh  bed  the  Johns  fingle,  and  the  colour 
is  paler.  You  firft  fill  the  glafs  with  dices  round- 
wife  cur,  and  then  the  gelly  is  poured  in  to  fill  up 
the  vacuities.  The  gelly  mull  be  boiled  to  a  good 
ftiffnefs;Then  when  it  is  ready  to  take  from  the  fire, 
you  put  in  fome  juyee'  of  Limon,  and  of  Orange 
too,- if  you  like  it ;  but  thel'e  mud  ndt  boil :  yet  it  - 
mud  dand  a  while  upon  the  fire  dewing  in  good 


[23<5] 

heat,  to  have  the  juyces  incorporate  and  penetrate; 
well.  You  muft  alio  put  in  lome  Ambergreece, 
which  doth  exceeding  well  in  this  fweet-meat. 

A  Flomery  Caw  die. 

When  Flomery  is  made  and  cold,you  may  make  a 
pleafant  &  wholcfom  cawdle  of  it,  by  taking  lome 
lumps  and  fpoonfuls  of  it,  and  boil  it  with  Ale  and 
White  wine,  then  lweeten  it  to  your  tafte  with 
Sugar.'There  will  remain  in  theCawdle  home  lumps 
of  the  congealed  flomery,  which  arc  not  ungrate¬ 
ful. 

F  leaf  ant  Cordial  Tablets  which  are  very  comforting 
and  flrengthcn  nature  much . 

Take  four  ounces  of  blanched  Almonds,  of  Pine- 
kernels,  and  of  Piftachios,  ana ,  four  ounces ;  Erin- 
go-roots,  candid  Limon-peels,  ana ,  three  ounces, 
candid  Orange-peels,  two  ounces,  candid  Citron- 
peels  four  ounces,  of  powder  of  white  Amber,  as 
much  as  will  lie  upon  a  flailing  ;  and  as  much  of 
the  powder  of  Pearl,  twenty  grains  of  Amber¬ 
greece,  three  grains  of  Musk,  a  book  of  leaf- 
Gold,  Cloves  and  Mace,  of  each  as  much  as  will 
lie  upon  a  three  pence ;  cut  all  thefe  as  Imall  as 
poflible  you  can.  Then  take  a  pound  of  Sugar,  and 
half  a  pint  of  water  ,  boil  it  to  a  candy-height, 
then  put  in  the  Ambergreece  and  Musk,  with  three 
or  four  fpoonfuls'  of  Orange-flower  water.  Then 
put  in  all  the  other  things,  and  ftir  them  well  to¬ 
gether,  and  call:  them  upon  plates,  and  let  them  to 
dry ;  when  both  fidcs  are  dry, 'take  Orange-flower 
water  and  Sugar,  and  ice  them. 

To 


■  I  25i  3 

i 

To  make  Harts-born  Geliy * 

Take  four  ounces  of  Harts- horn  rafpcd,  boil  it 
in  four  pound  of  water,  till  it  be  a  gelly,  which 
you  may  try  upon  a  plate  (it  will  be  lo,  in  four,  or 
rive,  or  fix  hours  gentle  boiling)  and  then  pais  the: 
clear  liquor  frqm  the  horn  (which  will  be  a  good 
quart)  then  fee  it  on  the  fire  again  with  fine  Sugar 
in  it  to  your  tafte  ;  when  that  is  dilfolved  (or  at 
the  fame  time  you  put  that  in)  put  half  a  pound  of 
White- Wine  or  Sack  into  it,  and  a  bag  of  Spice, 
containing  a  little  Ginger ,  a  ftick  of  Cinnamon 
bruiled,  a  Nutmeg  quartered,two  or  three  Cloves, 
and  what  other  Spice  you  like,  but  Pepper.  As  foon 
as  it  beginneth  to  boil ,  put  into  it  tne  whites  of 
three  or  four  eggs  beaten,  and  let  it  boil  up  gently, 
till  rhe  eggs  harden  into  a  curd.  Then  open  it  with 
a  fpoon/and  pour  into  it  the  juyee  of  three  or  four 
good  Limons  $  then  take  it  prefently  off  the  fire, 
letting  it  not  boil  more  above  a  walm :  Then  run 
it  through  aHippocras  bag,  putting  lpirit  of  Cin¬ 
namon  ,  or  of  Ambergreece ,  or  what  you  pleafo 
to  it. 

For  gelly  of  ffcfh  you  proceed  in  the  fame  man-; 
ner,  with  a  brawny  Capon  or  Cock,  and  a  rouelle 
of  Veal  firft  skinned,  and  foaked  from  the  blood, 
infteadof  Harts  horn  ;  and  when  the  broth  willr 
gelly,  do  as  above,  ufing  a  double  or  treble  pro¬ 
portion  of  Wine.  Boil  no  fait  in  it  at  firft,  for 
that  will  make  the  gelly  black. 

Hurts-horn  Gelly. 

Take  a  pound  of  Harts-horn,  and  boil  it  in  five 
quarts  of  water,  until  it  come  to  three  pints,  then' 

drain- 


[  23z  ] 

strain  it  through  a  fieve  or  drainer,  and  fo  let  it 
ftand  until  it  be  cold  5  an  d  according  to  the  ftrength 
you  may  take  more  or  lefs  of  the  following  ingre¬ 
dients.  Firft  take  your  dock  of  gclly,  and  put  it 
in  a  skillet  or  pipkin  with  a  pound  of  line  loaf  Su¬ 
gar,  and  fet  it  over  a  fire  of  Charcoal  j  and  when1 
it  begins  to  boil,  put  in  a  pint  or  more  of  Rhenilb- 
wine.  Then  take  the  whites  of  eggs,  fix  or  eighty 
beaten  very  well,  with  three  or  four  lpoonfuls  of 
Role-water,  and  put  into  the  gelly.  Then  take 
two  grains  of  Amber,  and  one  grain  of  Musk,  and 
put  thereto  j  fo  let  it  boil  a  quarter  of  an  houri 
out  not  too  violent :  Then  put  in  three  or  four 
fpoonfulsof  Cinnamon-Water,  with  hejuyce  of 
feven  or  eight  Limons  :  boil  it  orte  w  .lm  more; 
and  run  it  very  hot  through  your  gelly  bag  j  this 
done,  run  it  again  as  cool  and  foftly  as  yon  caii 
into  your  glades  and  pots. 

Another. 

Take  a  pound  of  Harts-horn,  and  a  pretty  big 
lean  Chicken ,  and  put  it  into  a  skillet  with  about 
nine  quarts  of  water,  and  boil  your  dock  pretty 
ftiff,  lo  that  you  may  cut  it  with  a  knife  5  you  may 
try  it  in  a  lpoon,  as  it  is  a  boiling.  Then  drain  your 
liquor  clear  away  from  the  Harts-hQrri  through  a 
fine  feari'e,  and  let  it  dand  until  the  next  morning. 
Then  if  there  be  any  fat  upon  it,  pare  it  away, 
and  likewife  the  letlings  at  the  bottom.  Then  put 
your  gelly  into  a  good  "big  skillet,  and  put  to  it  a 
quart  of  the  paled  White-wine  that  you  oan  pro¬ 
cure,,  or  a  quart  of  Rhcnifh-wine,  and  one  pound 
of  double  refined  Sugar,  and  half  an  ounce  of  Cin¬ 
namon  broken  into  fmall  pieces,  with  three  or  four 
flakes  of  Mace.  Then  fet  it  upon  the  fire,  and  boil 


[  *33  I V 

it  a  good  pace.  Then  have  the  whites  of  fixteen 
eggs  beaten  to  a  high  froth  j  fo  put  in  the  froth  of 
your  eggs,  and  boil  it  five  or  fixwalms}  then  put 
in  the  juyce  of  fix  Limons,  and  boil  it  a  little  while 
after,  and  then  run  it  into  a  filver  bafin  through 
your  gelly  bag  5  and  keep  it  warm  by  the  fire  until 
it  have  run  through  the  fecond  time.  You  muft  ob- 
ferve  to  put  but  a  very  little  into  your  bag  at  a  time 
for  the  fecond  running,  that  it  may  but  little  more 
then  drop  5  and  it  will  be  fo  much  the  clearer  ;  and 
you  muft  not  remove  the  whites  of  eggs,  nor  Spice 
out  of  the  bag,  all  the  while  it  is  running.  And  if 
the  weather  be  hot,  you  need  not  put  in  fo  much 
Wine  ;  for  it  will  not  then  be  fo  apt  to  gelly  as  in 
cold  weather. 

Another  way  to  maky  Harts-horn  Gelly . 

Take  a  fmall  Cock-chick,  when  it  is  fealded  flit 
it  in  two  pieces,  lav  it  to  foak  in  warm  warer,  until 
the  blood  be  well  out  of  it.  Then  take  a  Calves 
foot  half  boiled,  flit  it  in  the  middle  and  pick  out 
the  fat  and  black  of  it.  Put  thele  into  a  gallon  of 
fair  water ;  skim  it  very  well  1  then  put  into  it 
one  ounce  of  Harts-horn,  and  one  ounce  of  Ivory. 
When  it  is  half ’confumed,  take  fome  of  it  up  in  a 
fpoon,  and  if  it  gelly,  take  it  all  up,  and  put  it  in¬ 
to  a  filver  bafin,  or  luch  a  pewter  one  as  will  en¬ 
dure  Charcoal.  Then  beat  four  whites  of  eggs, 
with  three  or  four  fpoonfuls  of  Damask  Rofe-wa- 
ter  very  well  together.  Then  put  thefe  into  the  gel¬ 
ly,  with  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  Cinnamon  bro¬ 
ken  into  very  fmall  pieces ;  one  flake  of  Mace, 
three  or  four  thin  flices  of  Ginger}  fweeten  it 
with  loaf-Sugar  to  your  liking  }  let  it  then  over  a 
Chafing-dilh  of  Coals,  ftir  it  well  and  coyer  it 

clofe  ■ 


[  *34  ] 

tlofie  ;  blow  under  it  until  there  arife  a  fcum  oi* 
curd;  let  it  boil  a  little,  then  put  into  it  one  top 
■of  Rofemary ,  two  or  three  ot  Sweet-majoram  ; 
wring  into  it  the  juyce  of  half  a  Limon  ••  let  not 
your  curd  fall  again,  for  it  wili  Ipoil  the  clearnefs 
of  the  gelly.  If  you  will  have  it  more  cordial,  you 
may  grind  in  a  faucer,  with  a  little  hard  Sugar,  half 
a  grain  of  Musk,  a  grain  of  Ambergreece.  It  mnft 
be  boiled  in  an  earthen  pipkin,  or  a  very  fweet  iron 
-por,  after  the  Harts-horn  and  Ivory  is  in  it.  It  rnufl 
■conftantly  boil,  until  it  gellieth.  If  .there  arifeany 
icum,  it  mull:  be  taken  off. 

Mar  mutate  cf -Pippins. 


Take  the  quickefl:  pippins  when  they  are  newly 
■gathered,  andarelharp;  pare,  and  core,  and  cut 
them  into  half  quartersjput  to  them  their  weight  of 
•the  finch;  Sugar  in  powder,or  broken  into  littlepie- 
ces.  Put  upon  thefe  in  your  preferving  pan,  as  much 
Fountain-water  as  will  even  cover  them.  Boil  them 
with  a  quick  fire,  till  by  frying  a  little  upon  a  plate, 
you  find  it  gellieth.  When  it  is  cold  /which  may  be 
in  lels  thenhalf  an.hour)  then  take  k  from  the  fire, 
and  put  into  it  a  little  of  the  yellow  rind  of  Limons 
rafped  very  fmall,  and  a  little  of  the  yellow  rind 
of  Oranges  boiled  tender  (calling  away  the  fir  ft 
waters  to  correct  their  bitternefs)  and  cut  into  nar¬ 
row  dices  fas  in  the  gelly  of  Pippins)  and  fome 
Ambergreece,  with  a  fourth  part  of  Musk,  and 
break  the  Apples  with  the  back  of  your  preferving 
fpoon,  whiles  it  cooleth.  If  you  like  them  iharper, 
you  may  put  in  a  little  juyce  of  Limon,  a  little  be¬ 
fore  you  take  the  pan  from  the  fire.  When  it  is  cold, 
put  into  it  pots.  This  will  keep  a  year  or  two. 

Try  if  the  juyce  of  Apples  (drained  Out  of  raf- 


[  iJ5  1 

£ed  Apples)  in  fuch  fort,  as  you  make  Marmulats 
of  Quinces,  with  die  juyce  of  Quinces,  would  not 
be  better  than  fair  water,  to  boil  your  Apples  and 
Sugar  in. 

Geliy  of  Quinces. 

My  laft  gelly  of  Quinces  I  made  thus.  The  Quin? 
ces  being  very  ripe,  and  having  been  long  gather r 
ed,  I  took  the  fielh  of  twelve  Quinces  in  quarters, 
and  the  juyce  of  fifteen  or  fixteen  others,  which 
made  me  two  pound  of  juyce ;  and  I  made  a  ftrong 
decodtionof  .about  twenty  four  others,  adding  to 
rhefe  twenty  four  (to  make  the  decodtion  the  ftron- 
ger  and  more  flimy)  the  pores  and  parings  of  the 
twelve  in  quarters  ;  and  I  ufed  the  cores  fliced  and 
parings  of  all  thel'e.  All  this  boiled  about  an  hour 
and  half  in  eight  or  ten  pound  of  water ;  then  I 
ftrained  and  preffed  out  the  decodtion  (which  was 
a  little  vifeous,  as  I  ddired)  and  had  between  four 
and  five  pound  of  ftrong  decodtion.  To  the  decoc- 
tipn  and  Syrup,  I  put  three  pound.of  pure  Sugar, 
which  being  diffolved  and  leummed,  I  put  in  the 
fiefti,  and  in  near  an  hour  of  temperate  boiling  (co¬ 
vered)  and  often  turning  the  quarters,  it  was  e- 
nough.  When  it  was  cold,  it  was  ftore  of  firm  clear 
red  gelly,  environing  in  great  quant  :ty  the  quar- 
ters^that  were  alfo  very  tender  and  well  penetrated 
with  the  Sugar.  I  found  by  this  making,  that  thp 
juyce  of  Quinces  is  not  l'o  good  to  make  gelly.  It 
maketh  it  fomewhat  running  like  fyrup,  and  tafteth 
fweetifh,  mellowy,  fyrupy. 

The  decodtion  of  the  nefhy  is  only  good  for  fy- 
jrup.  I  conceive,  it  would  be  a  grateful  lwcet-meat 
to  mingle  a  good  quantity  of  good  gelly  with  the 
Marmulate,  when  it  is  ready  to  put  into  pots.  To 

that 


[*S«J 

that  end  they  muft  both  be  making  at  the  fame  dme, 
or  if  one  be  a  little  looner  done  then  the  other,  they 
maybe  kept  a  while  warm  (fit  to  mingle)  without 
prejudice.  Though  the  gelly  be  cold  and  letled,  it 
will  melt  again  with  the  warmth  oftheMarmulate, 
and  fo  mingle  with  it,  and  make  a  Marmulate,  that 
will  appear  very  gellyifh ;  or  peradventure  it  may 
be  well  to  fill  up  a  pot  or  glafs  with  gelly,  when  it 
is  firft  half  filled  with  Marmulate  a  little  cooled. 

Preserved  Quinces  with  Gelly. 

When  I  made  Quinces  with  gelly,  I  uled  the  firft 
time  thefe  proportions ;  of  the  decodion  of  Quin¬ 
ces  three  pound,  of  Sugar  one  pound  three  quar¬ 
ters  ;  flefhof  Quinces  two  pound  and  an  half.  The 
fecond  time  thele,  of  decodion  two  pound  and  an 
half.  Sugar  two  pound  and  a  quarter,  of  flelh  two 
pound  three  quarter0.  I  made  the  decodion  by 
boiling  gently  each  time  a  dozen  or  fourteen  Quin** 
ces  in  a  pottle  of  water,  an  hour  and  an  half,  or  two 
hours ;  fo  that  the  decodion  was  very  ftrong  of  the 
Quinces.  I  boiled  the  parings  (which  for  that  end 
were  pared  very  thick ,  after  the  Quinces  were 
well  wiped)  with  all  the  lubftance  of  the  Qginces 
in  thick  flices,  and  part  of  the  core  (excepting  all 
the  kernels)  and  then  let  it  run  through  a  loofe  nap¬ 
kin,  prdfing  gently  with  two  plates,  that  all  the 
decoction  might  come  out;  but  be  clear  without 
any  flcfh  or  mafh.  The  firft  making  I  intended 
Should  be  red ;  and  therefore  both  the  dccodion. 
and  the  whole  were  boiled  covered,  and  it  proved 
a  fine  clear  red.  This  boiled  above  an  hour,  when 
all  was  in.  The  other  boiled  not  above  «half  an 
hour,  always  uncovered  (as  alfo  in  making  his 
,decodion)  and  the  gelly  was  of  a  fine  pale  yellow. 


[  237  ] 

fifft  did  put  the  Sugar  upon  the  fire  with  the  de- 
codtion,  and  as  foon  as  it  was  diffolved,  I  put  in  the 
flelh  in  quarters  and  halves,  and  turned  rhe  pieces 
often  in  the  pan  ;  elfe  the  bottom  of  fuch  as  lay- 
long  unturned,  would  be  of  a  deeper  colour  than 
the  upper  part.  The  flelh  was  very  tender  and 
good.  I  put  lbme  of  the  pieces  into  Jar-glalfes 
(carefully,  not  to  break  them)  and  then  poured 
gelly  upon  them.  Then  more  pieced ,  then  more 
gclly,  dec.  all  having  flood  a  while  to  cool  a  little. 

To  ma.\e  fine  white  Gelly  of  Quinces. 

Take  Quinces  newly  from  the  tree,  fair  and 
found,  wipe  them  clean,  and  boil  them  whole  in  a 
large  quantity  of  water,  the  more  the  better,  and 
with  a  quick  fire,  till  the  Quinces  crack  and  are 
loft,  which  will  be  in  a  good  naif  hour,  or  an  hour. 
Then  take  out  the  Qnmces ,  and  prefs  out  their 
juyee  with  your  hands  hard,  or  gently  in  a  prefs 
through  a  ftrainer ,  that  only  the  clear  liquor  or 
juyee  run  our,  but  none  of  the  pap  ,  or  folid  and 
flelhy  fubftance  of  the  Quinces.  (The  water  they 
were  boiled  in  you  may  throw  away.)  This  liquor 
will  be  flimy  and  mucilaginous,  which  proceedeth 
much  from  the  feeds  that  remaining  within  the 
Quinces ,  do  contribute  to  making"  this  liquor. 
Take  three  pound  of  it ,  and  one  pound  of  fine 
Sugar,  and  boil  them  up  to  a  gelly,  with  a  mode¬ 
rate  fire;  fo  that  they  boil  every  where,  but  not 
violently.  They  may  require  near  an  hours  boil¬ 
ing  to  come  to  a  gelly.  The  trial  of  that  is,  to 
take  a  thin  or  iilver  plate,  and  wet  if^vith  lair  wa¬ 
ter,  and  drop  a  little  of  the  boiling  juyee  upon  the 
wet  plate ;  if  it  ftick  to  the  plate,  it  is  not  enough  j 
but  if  it  fall  off  (when  pou  Hope  the  plate)  with- 

our 


out  fticking  at  all  to  it,  then  is  it  enough :  ai}d  the«t 
you  put  it  into  fiat  (hallow  tin  forms,  firft  Wetted 
with  cold  water,  and  let  it  ftand  in  them  four  or 
five  hours  in  a  cold  place,  till  it  be  quite  cold.Then 
reverfc  theplates,that  it  may  finale  and  fall  out,and 
fo  put  the  parcels  up  in  boxes. 

Note,  you  take  Fountain-water,  and  put  the 
Quinces  into  it ,  both  of  them  being  cold.  Then 
fee  your  kettle  to  boil  with  a  very  quick  fire  that 
giveth  a  clear  fmarc  flame  to  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle, which  muft  be  uncovered  all  the  while,  that 
the  gelly  may  prove  the  whiter:  and  fo  likewife  it 
mult  be  whiles  the juyee  or  exprelfion  is  boiling 
with  the  Sugar,  which  muft  be  the  fineit,  that  it 
may  noot  need  clarifying  with  an  egg ;  but  that  lit¬ 
tle  lcuni  that  rifeth  at  the  fjdes  at  the  beginning  of 
moderate  boiling  muft  be  feummed  away.  You  let 
your  juyee  or  exprelfion  l'etle  a  while,  that  if  any 
of  ttye  thick  fubltance  be  come  out  with  it,  it  may 
fetle  to  the  bottom  j  for  you  are  to  ufe  for  this  on¬ 
ly  the  clear  juyee  5  which  to  have  it  the  clearer, 
you  may  let  it  run  through  a  large  thin,  open 
ftrainer  without  prelfing  it.  When  you  boil  the 
whole  Quinces  you  take  them  out ,  to  ftrain  them 
as  foon  as  their  skins  crack,  and  that  they  are  quite 
loft}  which  will  not  happen  to  them  all  at  the 
fame  time,  but  according  to  their  bignels  and  ripe- 
nel's.  Therefore  firft  take  out  and  prefs  thole  that; 
are  ready  firft  }  and  the  reft  ftill  as  they  grow  to  a 
fit  ftate  to.  prefs.  You  lhall  have  more  juyee  by 
prelfing  the  Quinces  in  a  torcu^ar ,  but  it  will  be 
dearer,  doing  it  with  your  hands :  both  ways  you 
lay  them  in  a/flrainer. 

White  Miirmulate ,  the  Queens  tv  ay, 

'Take  a  pound  and  an  half  of  flelh  of  Quinces 

X'J:’  .  ;  ■*  '  ([iced,, 


i  239  ] 

fiiccd,  one  pound  of  Sugar,  and  one  pound  of  li¬ 
quor  (which  is  a  deco&ion  made  very  ftrong  of 
Quinces  boiled  in  fair  water.)  Boil  thefe  widi  a 
pretty  quick  fire,  till  they  be  enough,  and  that  you 
rind  it  gellieth.  Then  proceed  as  in  my  way. 

My  Lady  of  Bath's  way. 

Take  fix  pounds  of  flcfiiof  Quinces,  and  two 
pound  of  Sugar  moiftened  well  with  juyce  of  Quin¬ 
ces.  Boil  thefe  together  in  a  fit  kettle ;  firft  gently, 
till  the  liquor  be  Iweated  out  from  the  Quince,and 
have  diflolved  all  the  Sugar }  then  very  quick  and 
fall:,  proceeding  as  in  my  way,  (bruifing  the  quin¬ 
ces  with  a  fpoon,  till  it  be  enough.  This  will 
be  very  fine  and  quick  in  taite,  but  will  nor  keep 
well  beyond  Ealter,  Jn  this  courle  you  may  make 
Marmulate  without  any  juyce  or  water  (by  the 
meer  fweating  of  the  flefii)  if  you  be  careful,  pro¬ 
ceeding  {lowly  till  juyce  enough  be  fweated  out, 
left  clle  it  burn  co  s  and  then  quick,  that  the  flefh 
may  be  boiled  enough,  before  the  moifture  be  eva¬ 
porated  away. 

Pajlc  of  Quinces. 

Take  a  quart  of  the  juyce  of  Quinces,and  when 
k  is  on  the  fire,  put  into  it  pared,  quartered,  and. 
cored  as  much  Quince  as  the  juyce  will  cover  $ 
when  it  is  boiled  tender,  pals  the  liquor  throuoha 
fieve,  and  put  the  pulp  into  a  {tone  Mortar,  and 
beat  it  very  fine  with  a  wooden  peftle;  then  weigh 
it,  and  to  every  pound  of  pulp,  take  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  loaf-Sugar ,  and  boil  it  up  to  a  candy 
height  in  fome  of  the  juyce,  which  you  paf- 
fed  through  the  fieve  5  then  put  therein  your  pulp, 

CL2,  ftirring 


[240] 

ftirr ihg  .it  well  together,  till  it  hath  had  one  boil 
and  ho  more :  .then  drop  it  on  glades,  or  fpread  it 
on  plates,  and  jet  it  to  dry. 

Into  the  juyee  that  remains,  you  may  put  more 
flfefh  of  Quillets ,  and  boil  it  tender,  doing  all  as 
at  the  firft  Then  adding  it  (beaten  to  pulp  in  a 
Mortar)  unto  the  former' pulp;  repeating  this  till 
you  have  taken  up.all  your  payee.  Then  put  your 
proportion'  of  Sugar  to  the  whole  quantity  of  pulp, 
and  fo  make  it  up  into  pade,  and  dry  it,  and  fome- 
times  before  a  gentle  fire,  fometimes  in  a  very  mo¬ 
derate  fibre. 

jp.jffe.cf  Quinces  nntjb  very 'tittle  Sugar. _  . 

To  one  pound  of  flefti  ov  folia  fubftance  of  Quin¬ 
ces  (when  they  are  pa  fed,' cored  y  and  quartered,) 
take  but  a  quarter  of  double  refined  Sugar.  Do 
thus,  lcaid  your  fleih  of  Quinces  in  a  little  of  the 
luyce  of  other  Quinces,  that,  they  may  become  ten¬ 
der,  as  if  they  Were  codled:  Then  beat  them  in  a 
Mortar  to  a  lubrife  uniform  Imooth  pulp  (which 
you  may  pafs  through  a  fearie.  )  In  the  mean  time 
let  your  Sugar  be  diliolved,  and  boiling  upon  the 
fire.  Wheifiit  is  of  a  Candy-height,  put  the  pulp  of 
(Quince -to  it,  and  let  it  remain  a  little  while  up- 
on"thc  firCjCillitboil  up  one  little  puff  or  bubling, 
and  that  it  is  uniformly  mixed  with  the  Sugar  ; 
you  muft  ftir  it  well  all  the  while.  Then  take  it  off; 
and  drop  ir  into  little  Cakes,  or 'put  it  thin  into 
ihallow  glades,  which  you  may  afterwards  cut  into 
ilices.  Dry  the  Cakes  and  dices  gently  and  by  de¬ 
crees  in  a  ftove,  turning  them  often.  Thefc  will 
keep  all  the  year,  and  are  very  quick  of  tafte. 

Anotl  ey 


I  M*  ] 

$  /  9  /  •  '  v« 

Another  Pnjte  of  Quinsef. 

.  Put  the  Quinces  whole  into  fealding  Water,  and 
let  them  bou  there  till  they  be  tender  ;  then  take 
them  out  and  peel  them ,  and  fc'rapc  off  the  pulp, 
which  pals  tinough  a  (trainer  :  and  when  it  is 
cold  enough,  to  every  pound  put  three  quar¬ 
ters  of  a  pound  of  double  refined  Sugar  in 
fuddle  powder  3  work  them  well  together  into  an 
uniform  prdte  3  then  make  little  Cakes  of  it,  and 
dry  them  in  a  (love.  If  you  would  have  the  Cakes 
red,  put  a  little  (very  little  3  the  colour  will  tell 
you  when  it  is  enough)  of  juyee  of  Barberries  to 
the  palte  or  pulp.  You  have  the  juyee  of  Barberries 
thus  ;  Put  them  ripe  into  a  pot  oyer  the  fire,  till 
you  fee  the  juyee  fweat  out.  Then  {train  them,  and 
take  the  clear  juyee.  If  you  would  have  the  pafte 
tarter,  you  may  put  a  little  juyee  of  Limons  to  it. 

A  plealant  gelly  in  the  beginning  of  the  Winter  is 
made  of  Pearmains,  Pippins,  and  juyee  of  Quin¬ 
ces.  Alfo  a  Marmulate  made  of  thofc  Apples,  and 
juyee  of  Quinces,  is  very  good. 

A  fmoothening  QAddany  or  Geliy  of  the  Cores  of  Quin¬ 
ces 

Take  only  the  cores,  and  flicc  them  thin,  with 
the  feeds  in  them.  If  you  have  a  pound  of  them, 
you  may  put  a  pottle  of  water  to  them.  Boil  them 
till  they  be  all  mafh,  and  that  the  water  hath 
drawn  the  Mucilage  out  of  them,  and  that  the  de- 
codtion  will  be  a  gelly  when  it  is  cold.  Then  let  it 
run  through  a  wide  (trainer  or  fit  colander  (that 
the  grofs  part  may  remain  behind,  but  all  the  flimi- 
nels  go  through)  and  to  every  pint  of  liquor  take 

0.3  about 


'  [  Hi  ] 

about  half  a  pound  of  double  refined  Sugar,  and 
boil  it  up  to  a  gelly.  If  you  put  in  a  little  juyce  of 
Quince,  when  you  boil  it  up,it  will  be  the  quicker. 

You  may  alfo  take  a  pound  of  the  flefh  of  Quin¬ 
ces  (when  you  have  not  cores  enough,  to  make  as 
much  as  you  defire)  and  one  ounce  of  feeds  of  other 
Quinces,  and  boil  them  each  apart,  till  the  one  be 
a  Itrong  decodtion ;  the  other  a  lubftantial  muci¬ 
lage.  Then  (train  each  from  their  coarle  faces  5 
and  mingle  the  decodtions,  and  put  Sugar  to  them, 
and  boil  them  up  to  a  gelly. 

Or  with  the  ffelh  and  lome  juyce  of  Quinces, 
make  Marmulate  in  the  ordinary  way  j  which 
whiles  it  is  boiling,  put  to  it  the  mucilage  of  the 
feeds  to  incorporate  it  with  the  Marmulate.  You 
may  take  to  this  a  lefs  proportion  of  Sugar  than  to 
my  Marmulate. 


Marmulate  of  Cherries. 

T  ake  four  pound  of  the  bed  Kcntidi  Cherries  be¬ 
fore  they  be  (toned,  to  one  pound  of  pure  loaf-Su- 
gar ,  which  beat  into  fmall  powder  :  (tone  the 
Cherries,  and  put  them  into  your  preferving  pan 
over  a  gentle  fke*  that  they  may  not  boil ,  but  re- 
folve  much  into  liquor.  Take  away  with  the  lpoon 
much  of  the  thin  liquor ,  (forelfethe  Marmulate 
will  be  gluyj  leaving  the  Cherries  moift  enough, 
but  not  (wimming  in  clear  liquor  .Then  put  to  them 
half  your  Sugar,  and  boil  it  up  quick,  and  feum 
a'Ctray  the  froth  that  rifeth.  When  that  is  well  in¬ 
corporated  and  clear,  drew  in  a  little  more  of  the 
Sugar,  and  continue  doing  fo  by  little  and  little, 
till  you  have  put  in  all  your  Sugar  ;  which  courfe 
will  make  the  colour  the  finer.  When  they  are 
boiled  enough, take  them  off,and  bruife  them  with 


r  nr  ] 

the  back  of  a  fpoon  3  and  when  they  are  cold,  put 
them  up  in  pots. 

You  may  do  the  fame  with  Morello-Cherries, 
which  will  have  a  quicker  tafte,  and  have  a  fine, 
pure,  lhining,  dark  colour. 

Both  forts  will  keep  well  all  the  year. 

Marmulate  of  Currans  with  payee  of  Rafpes  and 
Cherries. 

.  Mingle  jtiycc  of  Rafpes  and  red  Currans,  with  the 
ftonecl  Cherries,  and  boil  this  mixture  mtoMar- 
mulate,  with  a  quarter,  or  at  moft,  a  third  part  of 
Sugar.  The  juyees  mult  be  fo  much  as  to  make  gel- 
ly  of  them  to  mingle  handfomly  with  the  Cherries,  • 
to  appear  among  and  between  them. 

Madam  Plane 7,  (who  maketh  this  fweet-meat 
For  the  Queen )  uleth  this  propor  tion  ;  Take  three 
pounds  of  Cherries  ftoned,  half .  a  pound  of  clear 
juyceof  Rafpes  ,  and  one  pound  of  the  juyee  of 
red  Currans ,  and  one  pound  of  fine  Sugar ;  Put 
them  all  together  into  the  preferring  pan;  boil 
them  with  a  quick  fire,  efpecially  at  the  hr  ft,  skim¬ 
ming  them  all  the  while,  as  any  fcum  rifeth.  When 
you  find  them  of  a  fit  confidence,  with  a  fine  clear 
gelly,  mingled  with  the  Cherries,  take  the  prefer- 
ving  pan  from  the  fire,  and  bruife  the  Cherries  with 
the  back  of  your  preferving  fpoon ;  and  when  they 
are  of  a  fit  temper  of  coolnels,  pot  them  up. 

Pcradventure,  to  keep  all  the  year,  there  may 
be  requifite  a  little  more  Sugar. 

To  make  an  excellent  Syrup  of  Apples. 

.  Slice  a  dozen  or  twenty  Pippins  into  thin  dices, 
and  lay  them  in  a  deep  diih,  ftratum  fuper  flraiumt 

CL4  With 


[  244  1 

With  pure  doubfe  refined  Sugar  in  powder. Pur  two 
or  three  fpconfuls  of  water  to  them,  and  cover 
them  dole  with  another  difh ,  luting  their  joyning 
that  nothing  may  expire.  Then  let  them  into  an 
Oven.  And  when  you  take  out  the  difh,  you  will 
have  an  excellent  Syrup,  and  the  remaining  lub- 
llance  of  the  Apples  will  be  infypid 

You  may  proceed  with  Damiens,  or  other  plums 
in  the  fame  manner,  and  you  will  have  excellent 
ftewed  Damiens,  (as  fair  as  prefervedones)  fwim- 
ming  in  a  very  fine  fyrup. 

Sweet-meats  of  my  Lady  Windebanks. 

She  maketh  the  pafte  of  Apricocks  (which  is 
both  very  beautiful  and  clear,  and  tafteth  molt 
quick  of  the  fruit)  thus.  Take  fix  pound  of  pared 
and  diced  Apricocks,  put  them  into  a  high  por. 
Which  flop  clofe,  and  let  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  till  you  perceive  the  flelh  is  all  become  an 
uniform  pulp.}  then  put  it  out  into  your  prelerving 
panorpofnet,  and  boil  it  gently  till  itbe  grown 
thick  ftirring  it  carefully  all  the  while.  Then  put 
two  pound  of  pure  Sugar  to  it,  apd  mingle  it  well, 
and  let  it  boil  gently,  till  you  fee  the  matter 
come  to  fuch  a  thicknefs  and  folidity,  that  it  Will 
not  flick  to  a  plate.  Then  make  it  up  into  what 
form  you  will.  The  like  you  may  do  with  Ralpes 
or  Currans. 

It  is  a  pleafant  and  beautiful  fweet-meat  to  do 
thus :  Boil  Rafpes  in  fuch  a  pot ,  till  they  be  all 
come  to  fuch  a  liquor  ;  then  let  the  clear  run 
throug  a  ftrainer  ;  to  a  pound ,  or  Englifli  Wine- 
pint,  whereof  put  a  pound  of  red  Currans  (firft 
ftoned  and  the  black  ends  cut  off)  and  a  pound  of 
Sugar.  Boil  thefe  till  the  liquor  be  gellied.  Then 


[  24)  I* 

put  it  in  glafles.  It  will  look  like  Rubies  in  clear 
gelly.  You  may  do  the  like  with  Cherries  either 
Itoned,  and  the  ftalks  cut  ofi,  or  three  or  four  cap¬ 
ped  upon  one  ftalk,  and  the  hone  left  in  the  firft* 
and  boiled  in  liquor  of  Ralpes. 

She  makes  her  curious  red  Marmulnte  thus  .-  take 
fix  pound  of  Quince  fiefh,  fix  pounds  of  pure  Su¬ 
gar,  and  eight  pints  ofjuyce;  boil  this  up  with 
quick  fire,  till  you  have  feummed  it  j  then  pull 
away  all  the  Coals,  and  let  it  but  fimper  for  tour 
or  five  hours,  remaining  covered,  renewing  from 
time  to  time  fo  little  fire  ,  as  to  caufe  it  fio  to  conti¬ 
nue  fimpring.  But  as  foon  as  it  is  feummed,  put  into 
it  a  handful  of  Qiince-  kernels,  two  races  of  Ginger 
fliced ,  and  fourteen  or  fifteen  Cloves  whole  5  all 
thefe  put  into  a  Tiffany-bag  tied  faft;  when  you 
find  that  the  colour  is  almofl  to  your  mind ,  make 
a  quick  fire ,  and  boil  it  up  apace ;  then  throw 
away  your  bag  of  kernels.  Ginger,  and  Cloves, 
and  pot  up  your  Marmulatc,  when  it  is  cool 
enough 

N  She  makes  her  red  gelly  of  Quinces  thus  :  Put 
the  Quinces  pared  and  diced  into  a  pot,  as  above  5 
and  to  every  pound  of  this  flcih  put  about  half  a 
demifter  of  fair  water,  <.;nd  put  this  into  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  till  you  perceive  all  the  juyee  is 
boiled  but  of  the  Quince.  Then  ftrain  it  out,  and 
boil  this  liquor  (which  will  not  yet  be  clear)  till 
you  perceive  ir.  gellicth  upon  a  plate.  Then  to 
every  pint  of  liquor  put  a  pound  of  Sugar,  and  boil 
it  up  to  a  gelly ,  skimming  it  well,  asthefeum  ri- 
lcth,  and  you  will  have  a  pure  gelly. 


r"jp 


r4«] 


Gi  Uy  of  I{sd  Currans. 

Take  them  clean  picked,  and  frelh  gathered  in 
the  morning,  in  a  baiin,  let  them  over  the  fire,  that 
their  juyee  may  fwcat  out,  preliing  them  all  the 
While  with  the  back  of  your  preferving  fpoon,  to 
fqueefe  out  of  them  all  that  is  good.  When  you  Ice 
all  is  out,  ftrain  the  liquor  from  them,  and  let  it 
ftand  to  l'etle  four  or  five  hours,  that  the  grols  mat¬ 
ter  may  fink  to  the  bottom.  Then  take  the  pure 
clear,  (the  thick  feeling  will  ierve  to  add  in  making 
of  Marmulate  of  Cherries,  or  the  like  )  and  to 
every  pint  or  pound  of  it,  put  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  the  pureft  refined  Sugar,  and  boil  them 
up  with  a  quick  fire,  till  th^y  come  to  a  gelly  height 
(which  will  be  done  immediately,  in  lefs  then  a 
quarter  of  an  hour)  which  you  may  try  with  a  drop 
upon  a  plate..  Then  take  i:  off,  and  when  it  is  cold 
enough,  put  it  into  glalfes.  You  mult  be  careful  to 
skim  it  well  in  due  time,  and  with  chin  brown  pa¬ 
per  to  take  off' the  froth,  if  you  will  be  lo  curious. 

/ 

Geliy  of  Currants,  with  the  fruit  whole  in  it. 

,  Take  four  poutviof  good  Sugar,  clarifie  it  witfi 
tvhites  of.  cggsT"  then  boil  it  up  to  a  candid  height 
(that  is,  till  throwing  it,  itgoeth  into  flakes;) 
Then  put  it  into  five  pound  (or  at  dilcretion)  of 

Eure  juyee  of  red  Currans  firft  boiled  to  clarifie  it 
y  skimming  it.  Boil  them  together  a  little  while, 
till  it  be  well  fcummed,and  enough  to  become  gel- 
ly .  Then  put  a  good  handful  or  two  of  the  berries 
of  Currans  whole, _  and  cleanfed  from  the  ftalks 
and  black;  end,  add  boil  them  a  little  till  they  be 
enough. 

You 


[  *47  1 

You  need  not  to  boil  the  juyee,  before  you.  pit 
it  to  the  Sugar,  and  conlequently  do  not  feumie 
before  the  Sugar  and  it  boil  together :  but  then 
feum  it  perfectly  ;  and  take  care'" before ,  that  the 
juyee  be  very  clear  and  well  ftrained. 

Mur  mill  ate  of  Red  Currans. 

Take  fome  juyee  of  red  Currans,  and  put  into 
it  a  convenient  proportion  of  fome  entire  Currans 
dean  fed  fr6m  the  ftalks  and  buttons  at  the  other 
end.  Let  thefe  boil  a  little  together.  Have  alfo  rea¬ 
dy  fome  fineSugaf  boiled  to  a  candy  height:  Put  of 
this  to  the  Currans  at  difbrenon/  and  boil  them  to¬ 
gether,  till  they  be  enough  \  and  bruile  them  with 
the  back  6f  your  fpoon,  that  they  may  be  in  the 
confiftence  of  Marmulate  (like  that  of  Cherries) 
which  put  in  pots,  when  it  is  cool  enough.  You  do 
not  ftone  the  whole  Currans  put  into  the  juyee,  un- 
ids  you  pi  cafe. 

Sucket  of  Mallow  Stalks. 

To  candy  or  preferve  the  tender  ftalks  of  Mal¬ 
lows,  do  thus  ;  Take  them  in  the  Spring,when  they 
are  very  young  and  tender,  and  peel  off  the  firings 
that  are  round  about  the  outfide,  as  you  do  French 
beans,  and  boil  them,  till  they  are  very  tender.  In 
the  mean  time  prepare  a  high  fyrup  of  pure  Sugar^, 
and  put  the  boiled  ftalks  into  it,  whiles  it  is  boil¬ 
ing  hot,  but  taken  from  the  fire.  Let  them  lie  foak- 
ing  there  till  the  next  morning.  .Then  take  out  the 
ftalks,  and  heat  the  fyrup  again  lcalding  hot,  dnd, 
return  the  ftalks  into  it,  letting  them  lie  there  till 
next  morning :  fNotc ,  that  the  ftalks  mult  never 
boil  in  the  fyrup.)  Repeat  this  fix,  or  eight,  or  nine 
times,  that  is  to  fay,  till  they  are  fufliefendy  imbi- 


[248] 

bed  with  the  Syrup.  When  they  are  at  this  pafs* 
you  may  either  keep  them  as  a  wet  fucket  in  fyrup^ 
or  dry  them  in  a  ftove  upon  papers.,  turning  them 
continually,in  luch  fort  as  dried  lweet-meats  are  to 
be  made.  1  like  them  belt  dry,  but  loft  and  moift 
within  ( Medullofi )  like  candid  Eringoes.  I n  Italy 
they  eat  much  of  them,  for  lharpnels  and  heat  of 
Urine,  and  in  Gonorrhea  s  to  take  away  pain  in 
Urining 

A  Sucket  is  made  in  like  manner  of  the  carneous 
fubftance  of  ftalks  of  Lettuce.  It  is  the  knob,  out 
of  which  the  Lettuce  groweth  $  which  being  pa¬ 
red,  and  all  the  rough  rind  being  taken  off,  is  ve¬ 
ry  tender,  and  fo  it  is  a  pretty  way  downwars  the 
root.  This  alfo  is  very  cooling  and  fmoothing. 

In  Italy  thefe  tender  ftalks,  of  Mallows  are  called 
Mattfocchi,  and  they  eat  them  (boiled  tender)  in 
Pallets,  either  hot  or  cold,  with  Vinegar  and  Oyl, 
or  Butter  and  Vinegar;  or  juyee  of  Oranges. 

Conjerve  of  Rnfes. 

Dodlor  Ghffon  makes  his  conferve  of  red  Rofe£ 
thus :  Boil  gently  a  pound  of  red  Rofe  leaves  (well 
A  picked,  and  the  nails  cut  oft')  in  about  a  pint  and 
'  a  half  (or  a  little  more ;  as  by  diferetion  you  lhall 
judge  fit,  after  having  done  it  once  :  The  Doctors 
Apothecary  takes  two  pints  of  Spring-water  5  till 
the  water  have  drawn  out  all  the  tindture  of  the 
Rofes  into  it  felf,  and  that  the  leaves  be  very  ten¬ 
der,  and  look  pale  like  linnen  ;  which  may  be  in  a 
good  half  hour,  or  an  hour,  keeping  the  pot  cover¬ 
ed  whiles  it  boileth.  Then  pour  the  tindted  liquor 
from  the  pale  leaves  (ftrain  it  out,  preffing  it  gent¬ 
ly,  lo  that  you  may  have  liquor  enough  to  diffolve 
your  Sugar)  and  let  it  upon  the  fire  by  it  felf  to 


t  *4 9  ] 

boil,  putting  into  it  a  pound  of  pure  double  refi¬ 
ned  Sugar  in  imall  powder  ;  which  as  loon  as  it  is 
diflolved,  put  in  afecond  pound  5  then  a  third, 
laftly  a  fourth  i  ib  that  you  have  four  pound  of  Su¬ 
gar  to  every  pound  ot  Role-leaves.  (The  Apo¬ 
thecary  ufeth  to  put  all  the  four  pounds  into  the  li¬ 
quor  all  together  at  once.)  Boil  thefefour  pounds  of 
Sugar  with  the  tinbled  liquor ,  till  it  be  a  high  fy- 
rup,  very  near  a  candy  height,  (as  hmh  as  it  can  be, 
not  to  flake  or  candy)  Then  put  the  pale  Rofe- 
leavcs  into  this  high  fyfup,  as  it  yet  ftandcth  upon 
the  fire,  or  immediately  upon  the  taking  it  off  the 
fire.  Butprefently  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  ftir 
them  exceeding  well  together ,  to  mix  them  uni¬ 
formly  $  then  let  them  ftand  till  they  be  cold,  then 
pot  them  up. If  you  put  up  your  Conferve  into  pots, 
whiles  it  is  yet  throughly  warm,  and  leave  them 
uncovered  iome  days,  putting  them  in  the  hot  Sun 
or  Stove,  there  will  grow  a  fine  candy  upon  the 
top,  which  will  preferve  the  Conferve  without 
paper  upon  it,  from  moulding,  till  you  break  the 
candid  cruft,  to  take  out  fome  of  the  Conferve. 

The  colour  both  of  the  Rofe-leaves  and  the  Sy¬ 
rup  about  them ,  will  be  exceeding  beautiful  and 
red,  and  the  tafte  excellent ;  and  the  whole  very 
tender  and  fmoothing,  and  eafie  to  digeft  in  the 
ftomach  without  clogging  it ,  as  doth  the  ordinary 
rough  Conferve  made  of  raw  Roles  beaten  with 
Sugar,  which  is  very  rough  in  the  throat.  The 
worftof  iris,  that  if  you  put  not  a  paper  to  lie  al¬ 
ways  clofe  upon  the  top  of  theConlerve,  it  will 
be  apt  to  grow  mouldy  there  on  the  top  ;  efpecial- 
ly  apres  que  lepot  eft  ern.ta.me 

The  Conferve  of  Rofes,  befides  being  good  for 
Colds  and  Coughs,  and  for  the  Lungs,  is  exceed¬ 
ing  good  for  Iharpnefs  and  heat  of  Urine,  and  io re¬ 
nds 


[  1 

Mcfs  of  the  Bladder,caten  much  by  it  felf,  or  drunk 
with  Milk,or  diftilled  water  of  Mallows,and  Plan¬ 
tain,  or  of  Milk. 

Another  Confer  ve  of  I^fes. 

Dodftor  Bacon  related  to  me,that  Mr.  Minito, the 
Homan  Apothecary  made  him  fome  Conferve  of 
Holes  in  this  manner.  He  took  twelve  pounds  (of 
lixteen  ounces  to  the  pound)  of  the  beft  lump  or 
K  itch  in  Sugar,  and  clarified  it  very  well  with 
Whites  of  eggs,  ufmg  Spring-water  in  doing  this. 
He  made  his  reckoning ,  that  his  twelve  pound  of 
Sugar  came  to  be  but  nine  pound,when  all  the  feutn 
was  taken  away,  and  the  Sugar  perfectly  clarified. 
Boil  it  then  into  a  Syrup,  and  when  it  is  about  half 
boiled,  go  roundly  about  your  Role-lcavcs,  They 
muft  be  picked,  and  the  white  nails  cut  off  before¬ 
hand  j  but  begin  not  to  beat  them  before  your  Sy¬ 
rup  is  half  boded.  Then  put  thirty  ounces  (which 
is  two  pound  and  an  half  of  Rofcs  to  every  pound 
of  fuch  Sugar)  of  your  Red  Rofes  into  the  Mor¬ 
tar,  and  beat  them  well,  Iqueezing  into  them  as 
you  beat  them,  (oixie  of  the  lubtileft  and  beft  part 
(which  comes  out  firR^-'tif  about  two  Limo'ns, 
which  brings  out  their  colour  finely.  You  muft  have 
finilhed  beating  your  Rofes,  by  then  the  Sugar  is 
come  by  boiling  to  a  high  Syrup  (Tor  if  you  Ihould 
let  them  lie ftill  in  the  Air  but  a  little  while,  they 
Would  grow,  black,  and  of  ill  colour)  then  with 
your  ladleput  the  Rofes  to  die  Sugar,  and  ftir  them 
very  well  m  it,  to  incorporate  all  well  and  uni¬ 
formly  together.  So  let  them  boil  on  gently  (for  all 
this  while  you  rake  not  your  preferring  pan  from 
the  fire)  and  a  thick  feum  of  the  Rofes  will  rife, 
which  you  feum  .off  from  time  to  time  continually 

as 


r  [  2)1  7 

as  it  comes  up ,  and  referee  this  in  a  p  ot  by  it  felrl 
for  it  will  be  good  hard  Sugar  of  Roles,  sand  may 
be  about  an  eighth  or  ninth  part  of  the  whole.  Af¬ 
ter  it  is  clear  £rom  feum,  and  hath  boiled  near  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  with  the  Rofes  in  it,  and  that 
you  fee  by  a  drop  upon  a  plate,  that  it  is  of  a  due 
confiftencc ,  rake  your  pan  from  the  lire,  and  ftir 
all  very  well  together,  and  put  it  into  pots,  which 
leave  uncovered  during  ten  or  twelve  days,  fetting 
them  in  the  hot  ftrong  Sun  all  the  day  long  during 
that  time,  to  give  the  Roles  a  fine  hard  cruft  or 
candy  at  the  top  ;  but  under  it,  in  the  fubftance  of 
the  matter,  it  will  be  like  a  fine  clear  Syrupy  gclly. 
If  the  Sun  favour  you  not ,  then  you  may  ufe  a 
Stove.  After  twelve  days ,  ty  covers  of  paper  up¬ 
on  the  pots. 

Dodtor  Baco?i  ufeth  to  make  a  pleafant  Julep  of 
this  Confcrve  of  Rofes,  by  putting  a  good  fpoon- 
ful  of  it  into  a  large  drinking  glals  or  cup  ,  upon 
y/hich  fqueefe  the  juyceof  a  Limon,andclipin  un¬ 
to  it  a  little  of  the  yellow  rind  of  the  Limon  ; 
work  thel'e  well  together  with  the  back  of  a  fpoonP 
putting  water  to  it  oy  little  and  little,  till  you  have 
filled  up  the  glafs  with  Spring-water :  fo  drink  it.. 
He  fometimes  palfeth  it  through  an  Hippocras 
bag, and  then  it  is  a  beautiful  and  pleafant  liquor.  ' 


*  _  _ _ _ 

FINIS, 


1 


The  Table. 


A. 

SCotch  Alzfrom  my  Lady  Holmby 
To  make  Ale  drinkquiclf 
Avery  pie  aj arts'  dr  mf of  Apples 
Ale  with  Honey 
Small  Ale  for  the  Stone 
Apple  drinf  with  Sugar }  Honey 3  Sec. 

Mr.  Webbs  Ale  and  Bragot 

Aqua  mirabilis  Sir  Kcnelm  Digby’s  way 

To  few  Apples 

Apples  iri'gelly 

Sweet-meat  of  Apples 

To  make  an  excellent  Jyrup  of  Apples 

B 

Stewed  Broth 

Portugal  Broth  as  it  was  made  for  the  Queen 
’Noiinjhin?  Broth 
Broth  and  Pottage 

Broth  for  Jicl k  and  convalescent  per  fens 
A  favour y  and  nourifhing  boiled  Capon 
To  few  Beef 
To  few  a  pump  of  Beef 
To  roafl  Wild  Boar 
About  making  of  Brawn 
To  bake  Beef 
To  boil  Beef  or  Venifon 
Ordering  Bacon  for  Gambons,  and  to  keep 
To  make  Bisket 


9l 

9Z 

96 

97 

98 

100 

105 
194 
2  26 
229 
902 


1  IS 
120 
i2y 

594 
1  9  6 

14  6 

*43 
I  S7>  189 
161 
29S 
200 
202 
2oy 
211 

C  To 


The  Table, 
c. 


To  make  Cider  93 

Sir  Paul  Neale's  way  of  making  Cider  94 

Dr.  Harvey's  p  leaf  ant  Water  Cider,  whereof  he  njed 
to  drinf  muchy  making  it  his  ordinary  drink,  9$ 
A  good  difh  of  Cream  1 09 

An  excellent  Spanijh  Cream  ibid. 

Another  clouted  Cream  1 1  o 

My  Lord  of  St.  Albans  Crefme  Fouettee  1 1 2 
To  make  Cream  Curds  ‘  1.13 

The  Queens  Barley  Cream  1 3  2 

Capon  in  White  Broth  138 

To  make  Cock- Ale  140 

Savoury  Collops  of  Veal  I  yG 

To ptckje  Capons  my  Lady  Portlands’s  way  1 52 
Scotch  Collops  "  1 6 1 ' 

Excellent  good  Collops  164 

My  Lady  Diana  Portars  Scotch  Collops  1 74 

Cream  with  BJce  .  1 84 

Pickled  Campignons  1 92 

Sallet  of  cold  Capon  Bpafied  1 99 

To  make  Cheefe-cakcs  207 

Sharp  and  Cnfp  Crult  for  Tarts  and  Pyes  ibid i 

To  make  a  Cake  208,209,210,  21 1,  212 

To  make  a  Caraway-Cake  212 

Excellent  /mail  Cakes  213 

To  make  fealded  Cheele  2 1 9 

The  Cream-Curds  ibid. 

Savoury  toajicd  or  melted  Checfe  ,  22of 

To  feed  Chickens  220,  222,  223 

1  To  fatten  young  Chickens  in  a  Wonderful  degree?  222 

223 

An  excellent  way  to  Cram  Chickens  ,224 

Geliy  of  Bgd  Currans  247 

Geliy  of  Currans  with  the  fruit  whole  in  it  246  ■ 


R 


I/.  To 


The  Table, 
D. 

To  bake  Wild  Ducks  or  Teals 
To  roaft  Wild  Ducks 

E 

To  butter  Eggs  with  Cream 
Vortugue *  Eggs 
To  boil  Eggs 

F. 

Whcaten  Flomery 
A  Fricacee  of  Lambflonesi  &c. 
To  boil  ( moaked  Fleih 
A  Fricacee  of  Veal 
Butter  and  Oyl  to  fry  Fifh 
A  Flomery-Caudle 

Smallage  Gruel 
About  water  Gruel 


G. 


102 

ibid. 

140 

194 

195 

227 

iyi 

if? 
1 75 
286 
230 

130 

131 


jtJLUUU,*'  i  UVI  / 

An  excellent  and  wholfom  water  Gruel  with  Wtod-for 
rel  and  Currans 
Gruel  of  Oatmeal  and  I{ice 
To  make  clear  Geliy  of  Bran 
An  excellent  meat  of  Goole  or  Turkey 
To  fickle  an  old  fat  Goofe 

H- 

Some  Notes  upon  Honey 
J Vfy  Lord  Hollis's  Hydromel 
Hydromel  as  I  made  it  weak,  for  the  Queen  Mo  titer  28 
To  make  Honey  drink. 

Weak,  Honey  drink. 

To  make  an  Hotchpot 
The  Queens  Hotchpot 
A  nourifhing  Hacny 
jRed  Herrings  broyled 
To  feafon  Humble  Byes 
To  make  Harts-horn  Geliy 


ibid. 

184 

I9f 

204 

ibid. 

4 

27 


77 

99 

144 
ry1 
1 66 
203 

231,  232,233 


142, 


L.  To 


The  Table, 

L. 


M. 


17; 


to  dr  eft  Lampreys 

A iajier  Corfellifes  Antwerp  Meath  4 

To  make  excellent  Meath  y 

A  weaker  but  very pleafant  Meath  6 

An  excellent  white  Meath  7 

Mafter  Webb's  Meath  9 

My  own  conftder ations  for  making  of  Meath  1 4 

My  Lady  Gowers  white  Meath  20 

Strong  Meath  2  6 

A  Receipt  for  making  of  Meath  27. yy.r6 
My  Lord  Morice's  Meath  32 

My  Lady  Morice  her  Sifters  Meath  3  3 

To  mak*  white  Meath  34.fi .6i,f  Tt66.67372.7c 
Sir  W illiam  Pafton's  Meath  ■  3  y 

Anothenway  of  making  Meath  ibid. 

Sir  Baynam  Throckmorton's  Meath  3  6 

My  Lady  Bellaflies  Meath  38 

My  Lord  George  his  Meath  47 

Several  forts  of  Meath  [mall  and  ftrong  48 

To  make  Meath  49j7Ij/ry>78,8oJ8i,8y 

Sir  John  Arundels  white  Meath  yo 

To  make  a  Meath  good  for  the  Liver  and  Lungs  y  r 
A  very  good  Meath  y  3 

My  Lord  Herbert's  Meath  60 

To  make fmaU  white  Meath  ;  73 

Meath  from  the  Mufcovian  Amkajfadors  Steward  74 
Meath  with  Raifins  88 

A  Receipt  to  mal{e  Metheglin  as  it  is  mode  at  Liege , 

,  communicated  by  Mr.  Mafillon  I 

White  Metheglin  of  my  Lady  Hungcrfords,  which  is 
exceedingly  praifed  .  2 

A  Receipt  to  make  a  Tun  of  Metbeg^  7 

The  Countefs  of  Bullingbrooks  white  Metheglin  9 
Metheglin  compofed  by  my  felf  1  q 

R  2  Sir 


The  Table. 

S ir  Thomas  Gowers  Metheglin /cr  health  2 1 

Metheglin  for  tajle  and  colour  22 

An  excellent  way  of  making  white  lS\ci\\.2^,2^,2g  ,28 
Several  ways  of  making  Metheglin  »  29 

To  make  white  Metheglin  "  36^2 

Another  Metheglin'  3  9,y  3^4,66,8  3 

Mr.  Pierce's  excellent  /eZ?z7x  Metheglin  41 

An  excellent  way  to  make  Metheglin,  called  the  liquor 
of  Life  y_.\  _  "  44 

To  makegood  Metheglin  4^69 

To  make  white  Metheglin  of  Sir  J .  Fortefcue  46 
The, Lady  Vernon's  white  Metheglin  48 

To  make  Metheg,  fo,f7, $8,62,64,68, 73,76,79,87 
A  mojl  excellent  Metheglin  fifF 

To  make  white  Metheg.  of  the  Count,  of  Dorfets  yz 
To  make  [mall  Metheglin  62,84. 

The  Earl  of  Denbigh's  Metheglin  77 

To  make  Metheglin  that  looks  like  White  wine  82 
Metheglin.,  or  fweet  dr  inf  of  my  Lady  Stuart  8y 
A  Metheg.  for  the  Collicly,  Stone ,  of  the  fame  Lady  86 
A  Receipt  for  Metheg.  of  my  Lady  Windebank  86,87 

”  '  ’  *3'| 

H6 

162 
187 
189 

1 99 
213 

234 

234 

239 
243 
247 


Mg.ro vv  fops  with.  Wine 
To  make  ajhoulder  of  Mutton  like  Vcnifon 
An  excellent  in  ay.  of  making  Mutton  Steaks 
Ta  make  Muilard 
For  roofing  of  Meat 
Mutton  baked  like  Vcnifon 
My  Lord  of.  Denbigh's  Almond  Marchpane 
Marmalate  of  Pippins 
White  Manmdate  the  Queens  way 
My  Lady  of  Bath's  way  • 

Afarnmlate  of  Cherries 
■Marmulate  of  fed  Currans 

a 

A  plain  hi Ft  good  Sjhinifb  Oglia  : 

To- few  Oyfters 


$7 

176 

P  .Ex- 


The  Table, 

Po 

Excellent  Marrow  Sp inage  Pafties 

To  make  a  French  Earley  Poffet 

To  make  Puff-pa  fte 

To  make  a  Pudding  with  Puff-pafte 

To  make  Pear  Puddings 

Marrow  Puddings 

To  make  excellent  Blacky  Puddings 

A  Receipt  to  make  White  Puddings 

To  makp  an  excellent  Pudding 

Pyes 

To  make  Pith  Puddings 
An  Oat-meal  Pudding 
To  make  Call  Puddings 
A  Barley  Pudding 
A  Pippin  Pudding 
To  make  a  leaked  Oat-meal  Pudding 
A  plain  Quaking  Pudding 
A  good  quaking  Bag  Pudding 
To preferve  Pippins  in  Jelly 
To  drefs  Poor*]  ohn  and  Buckprn- 
To  drefs  Parfnips 
To  butter  Peaie 
A  Herring  Pye 

To  make  an  excellent  Hare  Pye 
To  bake  Pigeons,.  Tealsj  or  Wild  Ducky 
Green  Geeje  Pye 
To  make  a plabi  ordinary  Poffcc 
Concerning  Potages 
Plain  favoary  Englifb  PotagC 
Potage  de  blanc  de  Chapon 
Ordinary  Potage  '' 

Barley  Potage 
An  Englifb  Potage 
Another  Potage  • 

Nourijfant  Potage  de  fante 


i 

ibid, 
.  I  Wf>7 
ibid , 

1/8*  1 6f, 1 71 

1 6 a 
16% 
1 66 
1 67 
ibid. 
16$ 
3 -69 

ibid, 
1 69 
370 

1 80 

184 

i8f 

200 

201 

202 
loj 

1 14 

116 

1 17 

11 5 
1 19 

ibid. 

121 

Potage 


The  Table, 


dotage  de  fants 
Good  nourishing  Potage 
Pap  of  Oat-meal 
Panado 
Barley  Pap 

Oat-meal  Pap,  Sir  John  Colladon 
Predis-Nouriffanc 
Pa  n-Cotto 

My  Lord  Lumleys  Peafe-Potage 
■/In  excellent  Poffet 
Pc  ale  of  the  fiedy  Buds  of  Tulips 
To  make  Plague-water 
An  excellent  baked  Pudding 
My  Lady  of  Portland's  Minced  Pyes 
Mince  Pyes 

To  feed  Poultry  ,  tu 

To  /^-/Partridges  that  you  have  taken  wild 

To  make  Puff 

Geliy  of  Pippins  or  John-A^ples 

To  keep  Quinces  all  the  year  good 
Geliy  of  Quinces 

PrefervedQuinces  with  Geliy 
To  make  fine  white  Geliy  of  Quinces 

Pajieof  Quinces  „  , 

A  fmothenwg  Quiddany  or  Geliy  of  the  Cores  of  Quin 

ce>'  «  241 

R. 


Uijiif 

126 

128 
ibid . 
ibid . 

129 

133 

134 

,  I3/ 
137 

ibid . 

140,141 

147,17^ 

148,149 

*4 9>in 

221 

22j 

ibid. 
228 


I42 

230 

,  2,37 

239,240,  241 


Rice  Cf  Orge  Monde 
Boiled  Rice  dry 
T c  roft fine  Meat 
To  make  Red-Dear 
Conjerve  of  Red  Roles 


Si 


Sack  with  Clove  G  illy  flowed 
To  makf  Stepony 


130 

138 

ICO 

o  ^ 
205,209 

17 

99 

To 


The  Table. 


To  tqake  a  Sack  Poffet 
A  Barley  Sack  PoiTet 
My  Lord  of  Carlifle’s  Sack  Poflfet 
A  Syllabub 

To  make  Whip  Syllabub 
To  make  Spinagc-broth 
Sauce  of  HorJe-Badi/h 


104,10^,10$ 

106 

108 

108,115,186 

lll 

1 1 6 

ibid. 


Very  good  Sauce  for  Partridges  and  Chickens  I  y  5 

To  drefs  Scock-fijfh  1 7%  1 8 1 

To  prepare  Shrimps  for  dreffmg  1 86 

To  ma  ke  Slip-coat-cheefe  2 1  y,  2 1 6, 2 1 8 

Sweet-meats  of  my  Lady  Windebanks  244 

bucket  of  Mallow  ft  alky  207 

T  • 


Tea  with  Eggs 
A  Tanfie 
To  fiuce  Turkeys 
Pleafant  Cordial  Tablets 

To  flew  a  Breajl  of  Veal 
Vuova  Lattate 
Vuova  Sperfa 
Baked  Venifon 
Tolls  of  Veal 

W. 


a124 

176,209 


205 

250 


162,  196, 197 
186 


Morello  Wine 
Currans  Wine 

The  Countefs  of  Newports  Cherry  Wine 
Strawberry  Wine 
To  make  Wine  of  Cherries  alone 
To  make  fiasberry- Wine 
To  make  a  White-Pot 
Buttered  Whitings  with  Eggs 
To  flew  Wardens  or  Pears 
Preferved  Wardens 


89 

90 
-  lol 

ibid. 

lot 

142,  if? 
180 

lH 

225 


The  End, 


I 


.  4 


'  '  r. 


V  * 


.  * 


f 


'  ■  T 


•  1 


3.49. 


I 


I 


