SciRR 


TX  715 
. C6973 

19002 

Copy  1 


AGtUOK  ETA'S 


FAVORITE  DISHES 


The  Best  Recipe 

in  the  world  will  not  insure  the  production  of  desired 
culinary  triumphs.  No  matter  how  splendid  the  recipe 
it  must  be  used  in  connection  with  superior  ingredients 
if  never-varying  satisfaction  in  the  preparation  of  good 
things  to  eat  is  to  be  obtained. 

The  purity  and  uniformity  of  strength  of  Spices  and  Extracts,  the 
sweetness  and  flavor  of  Syrups  and  Molasses,  the  quality  of  Baking 
Powder,  the  texture  of  Flour,  in  fact  the  wholesome,  healthful  de- 
sirability of  every  article  used  must  be  given  careful  consideration 
if  results  are  to  measure  up  to  expectations. 

It  is  our  endeavor  to  supply  the  patrons  of  our  store  the  verp  choicest 
staples  and  delicacies  for  their  tables  and  to  make  sure  that  we  will 
always  be  in  position  to  do  this,  we  have  established  as  our  fore- 
most line 

RICHELIEU 

BRAND 

Pure  Food  Products 

Every  article  sold  under  this  brand  is  packed  solely  on  a  QUALITY 
BASIS  and  represents  the  highest  excellence  and  most  careful 
selection. 

We  unhesitatingly  recommend  the  use  of  RICHELIEU  FOODS  to 
the  people  of  Maquoketa,  knowing  their  quality  and  dependable 
uniformity  cannot  fail  to  give  that  supreme  satisfaction  sought  by 
every  housewife. 


J.  A.  WRIGHT  £  SON 


Our 

Millinery  Section 

is  replenished  throughout 
the  season  with  the 
new  creations  of  fashion 
from  the  leading  fashion 
centers  of  America  first, 
and,  when  procurable,  the 
stylish  French  models 
as  well. 

America  first  always. 

L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Go. 


♦  .  ,Wl)cri  j^ou  Cntertain 

You  should  make  your  Table  attractive 
with  our 

Place  Cards,  Candles,  Nut  Cups,  Etc. 

We  have  the  largest  and  best  line. 

We  have  added  a  special  line  of  SALTED  ALMONDS, 
PECANS,  and  PEANUTS 

In  keeping  with  our  high  grade  line  of  Pure  Drugs, 
We  carry  the 

Purest  Spices,  Flavors,  and  Fruit  Colors. 

STAACK  &  LUCKIESH 

DRUGGISTS 


b 


!F@fir(S)S@iiM 


THE  ASHLESS  FUEL 


Smokeless  and  Oderless 


FINE  FOR  THE  RANGE 


Green  Bay  Lumber  Co. 


c 


Come  to  our  Corset  Section  and  Fit  Your  Figure 

to  the  proper  model.    The  American  Lady  Corset  is  made  in  every 
model — regular,  stout,  and  slender.    Corsets  fitted  at  our  store. 

We  know  of  no  better  Corset  than  American  Lady 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Go. 

DON'T  WORRY 

It  Will  Make  You  Look  Old 

Monarch  Malleable  Range 

SAVES  WORRY  AND 
MAKES  COOKING  A  PLEASURE 

Come  See  It. 


TROUT  &  MATTHIAS 

MAQUOKETA,  IOWA 


GOOD  COOKING 

CAN  ONLY  BE   REALIZED  BY  USING 

GOOD  COAL 

We  Sell  the  Best. 
Try  It. 


Before  you  build,  ask  about  our  PLAN  SERVICE.  We 
can  furnish  complete 

BLUE  PRINT  PLANS  and 
Typewritten  Specifications 
For  Your  New  Home. 


Headquarters  for 

Lumber  —  Coal  —  Millwork 

MandFischer  Lumber  Co. 

Telephone  29 


e 


IF  YOU  WANT  FURNITURE 


^>tart  for  Mm 


f 


)lee=if  tstfjer  Company 

The  Real  Style  Center  of 
Jackson  County 

We  concentrate  on  comparatively  few  lines, 

J^rg  <£50fl{*5,  (Earppts, 

jfl^iUtnrry,  ani 

Epabg  t0-i©^ar  (garments 

giving  detailed  attention  to  every 
department,  featuring  merchandise  of 
dependable  qualities,  fully  guaranteed 
as  to  style  and  service. 


You  are  Invited  and  always  Welcome 
to  Look  at  Merchandise  here. 


THE  BEST  RECIPE 

For  a  Pleasant  Remembrance,  is  to  have  your 

Pleasant  Smile  Photographed 

At  

CUNDILL'S 

COR.  MAIN  AND  PLEASANT  STS. 

Frames,    Pictures,   Art  Goods, 
and  Stationery. 


Lang  s  Meat  Market  j 

WE  HAVE  THE  BEST 
TRY  US 

Home  Killed  Beef  a  Specialty 


h 


$un$bine  or  Stylecraff 

Garments  of  Quality 


YOU  CAN  DEPEND  UPON 

these  trade  marks  for  Style,  Value,  and  Service 

The  "  Sunshine n  or  "  Stylecraft "  trade  mark 
on  the  Coat  or  Suit  you  buy  means  the 
utmost  in  Style,  Quality,  and  Value. 


Then,  too,  it  means  the  best  possible  construction 
the  best  fabrics,  and  the  best  working  conditions 
under  which  the  n  Sunshine"  and  "  Stylecraft" 
garments  are  made. 


When  you  buy  a  "Sunshine"  or  "Stylecraft" 
garment,  you  are  assured  of  every  ounce 
of  Style,  Quality,  Value,  Service,  and 
Satisfaction  that  can  possibly  be  put  into 
any  garment  at  the  price. 


amey's  [flep't  Hiore 


The  store  that  sells  the  best  for  just  a  little  bit  less. 


Now  for  a  Dustless  Home ! 

Scientists  are  agreed  that  T)ust,  and  not  cold  or  exposure,  is  the 
chief  peril  to  meet  in  fighting  pneumonia,  gripp  and  colds. 


The  HOOVER  SUCTION 
SWEEPER 

will  make  yours  a  dustless  home. 
You  get  all  the  dirt  with  this 
wonderful  Electric  Carpet 
Sweeper  and  Vacuum  Cleaner 
combined.  The  Hoover  is  the 
only  machine  of  its  kind. 


No  other  electric  sweeper  has  the  electric  driven  brush  of  soft  hair,  which 
sweeps  up  the  lint,  thread,  etc.;  shakes  to  the  surface  the  imbedded  dirt 
so  that  the  powerful  suction  carries  it  all  away. 

Let  us  demonstrate  the  Hoover  in  your  Home. 

L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


Go  Lo  MA 


Jeweler 

Complete  line  of  Diamonds,  Watches, 
Jewelry  and  Silverware 


CHINA 


CUT  GLASS 


i 


S  THE  HOME  OF  § 

|  QUALITY  GROCERIES  | 


TKe  Di  scovery  of  tke  Nortk  Pole 

Was  a  Great  Achievement 

But  You  Will  Benefit  More,  Personally,  by 
Discovering  the  Place  to  Buy  the 

Best  Groceries- 
Turn  your  search  in  this  direction.  First 
Quality  in  everything  is  our  motto.  We  are  here  to 
please  you.  Your  wants  made  known  to  us  will 
have  our  most  careful  attention.  Don't  forget  the 
place. 


Hoffmann  3ros. 


Our  Ladies',  Misses',  and  Children's 

Ready-to-Wear  Department 


will  always  be  first  to  have 

THE  NEW  THINGS 

supplied  from  the  leading 
Fashion  Centers  of  America. 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Go. 


Fo  a  HAIGHT 


ICE  CREAM  AND  ICES 


MAQUOKETA,  IOWA 


i 


All  Recipes  Guaranteed  if 


GAS 


is  used  for  Cooking 


Maquoketa  Light  &  Fuel  Co 


We  have  just  what  you  are 
looking  for  in 

Jewelry,  Cut  Glass,  and 
Silverware, 

and  we  Guarantee  our  goods 

C  A.  Gallagher  &  Son 


Th 


Millinery 

that  meets  the 
requirements 
of  Good  Taste 
in  Dress. 


Prices 

Reasonable 

at 


Martin  Hat  Sko 

MAQUOKETA,  IOWA 


Majestic  and  Riverside 
Ranges 

Quick  Meal  Gas  Stoves 

ARE   THE  BEST 


Ringkp  hardware  Co. 


n 


A  Store  with  a  Big  Idea 


We  believe  that  the  biggest  idea  of  modern  merchandising  is  giving 
customers  what  they  want. 

Most  anyone  can  buy  a  stock  of  goods,  place  them  on  sale,  and  take  a 
chance  of  winning  or  losing. 

Business  is  not  done  that  way  now-a-days — at  least  not  in  this  store. 

Giving  customers  what  they  want,  means  that  we  render  buying 
service.  It's  our  duty  to  learn  and  know  their  needs  so  that  we 
can  provide  stocks  that  will  measure  up  to  their  requirements. 

"Giving  customers  what  they  want"  means  an  assurance  of  quality  at 
prices  that  mean  100  per  cent,  value  in  merchandise. 

That  is  the  big  idea  which  dominates  every  section  of  this  store. 

Geisler  Shoe  &  Clothing  Co. 


H.  GALE  BUCHNER 

Real  Estate  and  Insurance 

Best  m 
City  and  Farm  Property 

INSURE  YOUR  CAR  AND  ALL  OTHER 

PROPERTY  witb  Us  for  tbe  Best. 


MAQUOKETA.  IOWA. 


V®  odd0©®  Off  amd]  (Fo°5®ddgD© 

^dOO  Qd©  [PDosigcsd]  ©wotp^ 

CWo®  Cmk  Fl@w©ir. 

TTsiDdDod 

H.  L.  HILL,  Florist 


McCaffrey's  Fine  Cigars 

Fodip  BfltDDooOai^  (B®®d]©  aiooaO 


p 


A  COLLECTION  OF 

TRIED  RECIPES 

contributed  by  various 
Maquoketa  Housewives  and  Friends 


n  And  thro*  the  halls  there  walked  to  and  fro 
A  jolly  yeoman,  marshal  of  the  same, 
Whose  name  was  Appetite." 

— Spencer. 


Published  in  behalf  of 

The  Woman's  Society  of  the  Congregational  Church 
MAQUOKETA,  IOWA. 


i 


A  COMMENTARY  ON  THE  COOK. 


What  deeds  of  fame  are  left  undone ; 
What  thoughts  are  left  unspoken ; 
What  waiting  laurels  ne'er  are  won ; 
What  grand  resolves  are  broken ; 
Because  of  soggy  bread  and  pies 
And  viands  spoiled  in  broiling, 
Of  sickly  tarts  and  greasy  fries 
And  coffee  left  a  boiling. 

—Dr.  A.  3.  £owen. 


Library  of  Congress 


2010  474639 


Maquoketa's 
Favorite  Dishes 


[czjoizdI 


The  Cook  Book  Committee  of  the  Woman's 
Society  of  the  Congregational  Church  take  this 
opportunity  of  thanking  all  who  so  kindly  con- 
tributed their  choice  recipes  to  this  collection. 
We  regret  not  being  able  to  publish  all  the 
material  furnished;  but  as  the  recipes  numbered 
several  hundred,  some  being  duplicates,  a  pro- 
cess of  careful  comparison  and  selection  became 
necessary  for  the  completeness  of  the  book,  and 
the  representing  of  each  contribution.  If  all  the 
recipes  sent  in  do  not  appear,  it  is  not  from  the 
lack  of  appreciation,  but  from  lack  of  space  in  a 
volume  so  limited  by  the  low  price  asked. 

The  Committee  and  the  Society  thank  the 
kind  friends  and  the  liberal  business  firms  for 
the  interest  shown  and  help  given.  We  have 
striven  to  make  the  book  representative,  not  only 
of  the  Society,  but  of  our  home  city. 


KITCHEN  TIME  TABLE 


OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 


2  Gills    cup  or  y2  pint 

One  pint  of  liquid    _.   1  lb. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar       1  lb. 

7.y2  cups  powdered  sugar      1  lb. 

4  cups  of  flour  —     1  qt.  or  1  lb. 

2  heaped  cups  of  butter  _    1  lb. 

2  tablespoons  of  flour   _   1  ounce 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  -  _    1  ounce 

Butter  size  of  an  egg     2  ounces 

1  tablespoon  of  liquid  -  yz  ounce 


BAKING 


Beans  _  _  8  to  10  hours 

Beef,  rare,  per  lb   _  8  to  10  minutes 

Beef,  well  done,  per  lb   _  _12  to  15  min. 

Bread   „  _..40  to  60  min. 

Biscuit  ..10  to  20  min. 

Cake,  plain  _   .   _  20  to  40  min. 

Cake,  sponge     45  to  60  min. 

Cookies  _  _  10  to  15  min. 

Custard     —  15  to  20  min. 

Chickens,  3  to  4  lb     1  to  \l/2  hours 

Fish,  6  to  8  lbs    _   1  hour 

Gingerbread  _   20  to  30  min. 

Graham  gems  _    _  30  min. 

Lamb,  well  done,  per  lb      15  min. 

Pie  Crust    _  30  to  40  min. 

Pork,  well  done,  per  lb.   _  30  min. 

Potatoes  _  30  to  45  min. 

Pudding,  bread  rice  and  tapioco    1  hour 

Turkey,  10  lbs     3  hours 

VEGETABLES 

Greens — Dandelions      \Yz  hours 

Spinach   _  —  25  to  30  min. 

String  Beans      1  to  2  hours 

Green  Peas  _  20  to  30  min. 

Beets  _  1  to  3  hours 

Turnips      1  to  3  hours 

Squash  _    1  hour 

Potatoes,  boiled   _   20  to  30  min. 

Potatoes,  baked  1  hour. 

Corn  _    _  _  20  min. 

Carrots  _  _  ^  to  1  hr. 

Asparagus      15  to  25  min. 

Cabbage    _  _    „  -1  to  3  hours 


Alf.  S.  ("Nasby")  Butterworth,  136  Main  Street  5 


SOUPS. 


Soup  Stocks.  Soup  stocks  are  made  from  meat.  The  meat 
with  bone  if  possible,  is  put  on  the  stove  in  cold  water  and  boiled 
slowly  until  meat  falls  from  the  bone.  Grease  should  be  removed 
after  cooling. 

The  stock  may  be  flavored  with  onion,  celery,  or  any  vegetables. 
Rice,  spaghetti  or  noodles  are  used  if  a  thick  soup  is  desired. 

Foundation  for  Soups  Made  With  Milk.  1  quart  milk,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  1  teaspoon  chopped  onions ;  y2  tablespoon  of  flour ;  1 
stalk  celery ;  1  teaspoon  salt ;  y>  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Cook  milk, 
celery  and  onion  20  minutes  in  double  boiler ;  cook  the  flour  and  but- 
ter together  five  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  brown  it ;  then  pour  it 
into  the  soup,  add  the  seasoning,  and  it  is  ready  to  finish  in  any  way. 

Bouillon.  Take  a  fifteen  cent  leg  of  beef,  boil  six  hours;  one 
hour  before  done  add  one-third  of  a  lemon  peel,  three  heads  of 
cloves,  a  little  nutmeg,  4  stalk  of  celery,  a  little  red  pepper,  a  few 
leaves  of  parsley,  y2  onion ;  salt  to  taste.  When  done  strain  into  a 
crock  and  when  cool  skim  off  grease;  heat  slowly  when  preparing 
to  serve. 

Tomato  Soup.  1  can  tomatoes,  1  pint  of  water;  12  pepper- 
corns, bit  of  bay  leaf;  4  cloves;  1  teaspoon  sugar;  1  slice  onion;  1 
teaspoon  salt ;  y$  teaspoon  soda ;  2  tablespoons  butter ;  2  tablespoons 
flour. 

Cook  first  seven  ingredients  20  minutes.  Strain.  Add  salt  and 
soda ;  mix  the  flour  with  an  equal  amount  of  water  until  smooth ;  add 
more  water  until  thin  enough  to  pour.  Stir  soup  while  adding  the 
thickening  gradually,  boil  5  minutes ;  strain,  add  butter,  serve  with 
croutons. 

Tomato  Bouillon.  3A  cup  tomatoes,  2  cloves,  y$  teaspoon  su- 
gar, y2  teaspoon  sliced  onion,  %  cup  water,  small  bay  leaf.  Sim- 
mer all  together  until  it  is  reduced  to  original  amount  of  tomatoes. 
Strain  and  add  salt,  pepper,  cayenne  and  reheat.    Serve  in  hot  cups. 

Hazel  E.  Morse. 


Only  News  Depot  in  City  "Nasby,"  136  Main  Street 


6 


Only  Exclusive  Sporting  Goods  Department 


Tomato  Bisque.  2  cups  cooked  tomatoes,  i  tablespoon  chopped 
onion,  i  teaspoon  sugar,  6  cloves,  teaspoon  soda,  2  tablespoons 
flour,  2  tablespoons  butter,  i  y2  teaspoons  salt,  teaspoon  pepper,  2 
cups  milk.  Cook  onion,  tomato,  cloves  and  sugar  together  for  five 
minutes.  Strain  through  sieve  and  add  soda.  Melt  butter,  add 
flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  melted  butter.  Add  milk  gradually  and 
cook  until  slightly  thick.  Add  strained  tomato  to  the  milk  gradually. 
Serve  very  hot.  Ruby  Jucksch. 

Duchess  Soup,  i  quart  milk,  2  large  onions,  3  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  salt 
and  pepper.  Fry  the  onions  and  butter  together  for  eight  minutes, 
then  add  the  dry  flour  and  cook  2  minutes  longer.  Stir  into  the  milk 
and  cook  ten  minutes.  Rub  through  a  strainer  and  return  to  fire. 
Now  add  cheese.  Beat  the  eggs  with  a  speck  of  pepper  and  y2  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Hold  the  colander  over  the  soup  and  pour  the  eggs 
through  and  set  back  for  three  minutes  where  it  will  not  boil.  The 
cheese  may  be  omitted  if  it  is  not  liked. 

Mrs.  Jennie  Squiers  Mitchell. 

Cheese  Soup.  1  quart  of  milk,  4  or  5  slices  of  carrot,  2  or  3 
slices  of  onion,  y2  bunch  of  celery.  Boil  one-half  hour  in  double 
boiler  and  just  before  removing  from  the  fire  add  y2  cupful  grated 
cheese.  Mrs.  Helen  Sanborn  Howes. 

Oyster  Stew.  Pour  liquor  off  of  oysters,  put  into  a  colander 
and  wash  thoroughly,  removing  any  pieces  of  shell;  put  on  oysters 
in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  set  on  stove  until  oysters  come  to  top ; 
heat  one  quart  of  milk  with  a  lump  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and 
pour  into  the  oysters.    Serve  immediately. 

Oyster  Bouillon.  Chop  1  quart  of  oysters,  1  slice  of  onion, 
and  the  outer  stalks  of  2  bunches  of  celery.  Cover  with  1  quart  of 
water  and  let  simmer  10  minutes.  Strain  clear  with  the  shell  and 
white  of  an  egg,  season  with  a  saltspoon  of  white  pepper,  a  teaspoon 
of  salt.    Serve  in  cups  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  top. 

Celery  Soup.  Boil  12  stalks  of  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces,  in  3 
pints  of  water  for  y2  hour.  Add  %  an  onion  and  2  blades  of  mace 
and  pass  through  a  sieve.  Mix  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  butter;  add  to  the  soup  a  pint  of  milk  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  A  cupful  of  cream  added  just  before  serving  makes 
a  great  improvement.  Mrs.  Owen  McCaffrey. 


In  Maquoketa — "Nasby,"  136  Main  Street 


Subscription  Agency,  "Nasby,"  136  Main  Street  7 


Corn  Bouillon.  Cook  1  can  of  corn  until  tender ;  rub  through 
colander  and  return  to  the  sauce  pan ;  add  salt,  pepper,  rich  milk  and 
1  tablespoon  butter,  into  which  a  tablespoon  of  flour  has  been 
blended.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  serve  in  cups  with  a  liberal  spoon- 
ful of  whipped  cream  to  each  cup.  Mrs.  G.  L.  Johnson. 

Bean  Soup.  Soak  one  cup  of  beans  in  cold  water  over  night ; 
boil  till  tender,  then  mash  and  strain  through  a  colander,  pressing 
through  with  a  wooden  pestle.  Add  2  quarts  of  stock,  one  cup  of 
milk,  1  grated  onion,  salt,  pepper,  and  curry  to  taste.  Half  a  gill  of 
catsup  improves  the  flavor. 

Potato  Soup.  Thinly  slice  enough  raw  potatoes  to  make  1 
pint,  with  one  to  four  small  onions,  as  preferred,  and  boil  in  one 
quart  of  cold  water  until  perfectly  tender.  Put  this  through  the 
colander  and  add  1  pint  rich  milk,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste ;  serve  hot. 

Potato  Soup.  6  medium  sized  potatoes,  2  onions,  l/2  stalk  cel- 
ery. Boil  all  together  in  plenty  of  water.  When  well  done  mash  thor- 
oughly. Make  a  cream  dressing  of  1  quart  milk,  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter, and  same  of  flour;  mix  with  boiled  vegetables  and  season  to 
taste.   Very  nice  made  with  rice  and  celery.    Mrs.  Alice  A.  Krepps. 

Quickly  Made  Soup.  Place  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  stew-pan 
till  it  boils  but  does  not  brown.  Add  2  tablespoons  flour.  When  all 
is  thoroughly  mixed  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  celery  salt,  1 
saltspoon  white  pepper.  Boil  1  quart  milk  and  add  the  hot  thicken- 
ing. Remove  the  bone  and  skin  from  1  small  can  salmon;  mince  or 
chop  it ;  add  the  fish  to  the  milk ;  let  boil  up  and  serve  immediately. 

Italian  Soup.  Break  into  small  pieces  enough  macaroni  to 
make  2  cups.  Boil  with  a  cup  of  tomatoes,  y2  an  onion,  a  little  butter 
and  2  cups  water  until  tender,  if  too  thick  add  more  water  and  the 
juice  of  y2  a  lemon.    Serve  without  straining.    Mrs.  B.  F.  Prussia. 

Beef  Vegetable  Soup.  Take  soupbone,  cover  with  cold  water 
and  let  boil  slowly,  skimming  thoroughly;  an  hour  before  dinner 
chop  fine  one-half  head  of  cabbage,  3  or  4  good  sized  potatoes,  1  tur- 
nip, 2  carrots,  1  tomato,  half  a  root  of  celery,  one  onion,  and  a  cup 
of  corn,  (peas  may  be  added  if  desired).  Add  with  chopped  meat 
to  soup,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  few  cloves. 


Gansert's  Celebrated  Chocolates — "Nasby,"  136  Main 


3 


Subscribe  for  those  Magazines  now — "Nasby" 


Vegetable  Soup.  Left  over  carrots,  turnips,  celery,  onions, 
etc.,  may  be  used.  If  none  are  available,  take  i  cup  of  raw  carrots, 
and  i  cup  of  turnips  (cut  in  cubes),  celery  and  onion  chopped  fine. 
Cover  with  cold  water  and  salt.  Let  simmer  for  an  hour  or  two  add- 
ing water  to  keep  covered.  20  minutes  before  serving  add  1  pint  of 
stock.  Thicken  slightly  with  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  blended.  Add 
any  other  vegetable  flavoring  desired. 

Noodle  Soup.    Beat  1  egg  thoroughly,  add  to  it  ^  egg  shell 

of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  all  the  flour  it  will  take  up.  Make  2 
sheets  of  this,  roll  very  thin.  Let  them  partially  dry  out,  then  roll 
like  jelly  roll  and  cut  in  very  thin  slices.  Add  to  your  stock  15  min- 
utes before  serving  and  boil  hard. 

Soubise  Soup.  2  cups  stock,  4  tablespoons  butter,  4  table- 
spoons flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  pepper,  1  cup  cream  or 
milk,  2  egg  yolks,  %  cup  grated  cheese.  Melt  butter.  Add  dry  in- 
gredients. Add  stock  gradually.  Cook  until  it  thickens.  Heat 
cream  with  one  tablespoon  chopped  onion.  Strain  cream  and  add  to 
soup.    Pour  it  gradually  upon  the  beaten  egg  yolks. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Nitzsche. 


SOUP  GARNISHINGS. 


Croutons.  Cut  stale  bread  in  1-3  inch  slices,  remove  crusts, 
cut  slices  in  1-3  inch  cubes.  Put  in  pan  in  oven  and  toast  a  delicate 
brown  on  all  sides,  or  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Imperial  Sticks  in  Rings.  Cut  stale  bread  in  1  -3  inch  slices  and 
rings  with  a  doughnut  cutter.  Cut  slices  in  sticks.  Put  in  pan  in 
oven  and  bake  a  delicate  brown.   Arrange  3  sticks  in  each  ring. 

Fritter  Beans.  1  egg,  %  teaspoonful  salt,  2  tablespoonsful 
milk,  y2  cup  flour.  Beat  egg  until  light.  Add  milk,  salt  and  flour. 
Put  through  colander  into  deep  fat  and  fry  until  brown.  Drain  on 
brown  paper. 

Crisp  Crackers.  Split  common  crackers  and  spread  evenly 
with  butter.   Put  in  pan  and  bake  a  delicate  brown. 


Morse  Bon  Bons  and  Fancy  Box  Candies,  136  Main  Street 


All  kinds  of  Pipes 


i — all  prices — "Nasby" 


11 


FISH  AND  SHELL  FISH. 


Fried  Frog  Legs.  Dry  legs,  roll  in  flour,  shake  free  from  ex- 
tra flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg  mixed  with  a  little  milk,  pepper  and  salt, 
roll  in  very  fine  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Garnish  with 
minced  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon. 

To  Bake  Fish.  Clean,  and  bake  on  a  greased  dish-sheet  placed 
in  dripping  pan.  If  fish-sheet  is  not  at  hand,  place  strips  of  cotton 
cloth  under  fish,  by  which  it  may  be  lifted  from  pan. 

To  Fry  Fish:  Clean  fish,  and  wipe  as  dry  as  possible,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  dip  in  flour  or  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

To  Saute  Fish.  Prepare  as  for  frying,  and  cook  in  frying  pan 
with  small  amount  of  fat;  or,  if  preferred,  dip  in  granulated  corn 
meal. 

Stuffing  for  Baked  Fish.  Mix  i  cup  bread  crumbs,  3  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley,  1  of  minced  onion, 
1  of  Worcestershire,  1  teaspoon  each  capers,  gherkins,  and  olives 
chopped  fine,  1  teaspoon  tomato  catsup,  1  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 
Add  enough  water  to  make  it  soft  enough  to  stuff. 

Spanish  Salmon.  Fry  a  large  onion  in  hot  olive  oil  or  lard. 
Add  Yz  can  tomatoes  and  little  water  and  when  onions  are  well 
cooked  add  a  small  can  of  salmon,  salt,  pepper,  and  large  green 
sweet  pepper  if  you  have  it.  A  little  cayenne  pepper  improves  all 
Spanish  dishes.  Mrs.  Edith  Harris. 

Salmon  Puffs.  Chop  meat  from  1  can  salmon,  add  1  table- 
spoon melted  butter,  saltspoon  salt  and  pepper,  Y/2  cup  bread  crumbs, 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  and  3  well  beaten  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly 
and  pack  in  cups  about  full.  Set  cups  in  pan  of  water  and  bake 
one-half  hour.  Turn  out  on  hot  platter  and  put  a  sprig  of  parsley 
in  the  top  of  each  puff.  Pour  around  the  following  sauce :  Pour 
slowly  over  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  1  cup  of  hot  sweet 
cream.    Set  the  bowl  in  hot  water  and  stir  until  thick,  taking  care 


Pens,  Pencils,  Inks,  Papers — "Nasby,"  136  Main  Street 


12 


Home  of  the  Fisherman,  136  Main  Street 


not  to  let  boil.    Add  saltspoon  of  salt,  half  as  much  pepper  and  a 

tablespoon  of  lemon  juice. 

Crab  Flake  Cocktail.  Chop  fine  the  inner  stalks  of  a  head  of 
celery,  a  small  green  pepper,  from  which  seeds  have  been  taken,  and 
the  flesh  of  six  green  olives.  Mix  with  this  2-3  cup  of  mayonnaise 
dressing  and  1-3  cup  of  tomato  catsup.  Have  ready  a  little  more 
than  an  equal  bulk  of  crab  meat  flaked.  Put  small  amount  of  cock- 
tail sauce  in  cocktail  glasses,  then  a  layer  of  crab  meat ;  continue  lay- 
ers having  crab  meat  at  top.  Let  stand  an  hour  or  more  before 
serving  and  serve  very  cold. 

Deviled  Salmon,  Oysters  or  Chicken.  25  oysters  or  1  cup  of 
salmon  or  chicken,  }2  pint  cream  (part  milk  will  do),  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter.  2  tablespoons  flour,  yolks  2  eggs.  Salt  and  cayenne 
pepper  to  taste.  Chopped  parsley  if  desired.  Put  cream  on  to  boil, 
rub  flour  and  butter  together  and  stir  into  the  cream  when  boiling. 
As  soon  as  it  thickens  take  from  fire,  and  add  other  ingredients.  Beat 
yolks  of  eggs  before  adding  them.  Fill  shells  or  baking  dishes  with 
this  mixture,  sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs,  and  brown  in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Edith  Harris. 

Salmon  Loaf.     Pick  one  can  of  salmon  and  remove  bones,  add 

1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  two  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  one  cup  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Bake  in 
a  buttered  pan  one  hour.  Turn  loaf  out  on  a  platter  when  done  and 
pour  over  gravy. 

Gravy  :  Heat  1  pint  of  milk  to  boiling  point,  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter, season  with  salt  and  pepper.  2  tablespoons  corn  starch. 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Gohhnan. 

Salmon  Loaf  With  Cucumber  Sauce.  1  pound  of  canned  sal- 
mon. \'2  tablespoon  each  of  sugar  and  flour,  1  tablespoon  melted  but- 
ter. 1  teaspoon  salt,  y2  teaspoon  mustard,  dash  of  cayenne,  yolks  of 

2  eggs  well  beaten.  %  cup  cream  or  milk,  y±  cup  vinegar.  Pick 
over  salmon  and  put  with  other  ingredients,  after  carefully  blending 
them  in,  a  double  boiler.  Cook  eggs  until  done.  Remove  from  fire 
and  add  3  tablespoons  gelatine,  softened  in  cold  water.  Mould,  chill 
and  serve  with  cucumber  sauce. 

Cucumber  Sauce :  y>  cup  cream  beaten,  season  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  onion  juice.  Add  2  tablespoons  vinegar  and  one  cucumber 
chopped  fine  and  drain  as  dry  as  possible.        Lena  A.  S.  Blessing. 


Alf.  S.  ("Nasby")  Butterworth,  Tobacconist,  136  Main 


Let  Me  send  in  those  Subscriptions,  "Nasby" 


13 


Creamed  Oysters,  i  pint  oysters,  y2  pint  cream,  i  tablespoon 
flour,  i  teaspoon  salt  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Cook  oysters 
in  their  own  liquor  until  edges  begin  to  curl;  then  drain.  Cook 
cream  in  double  boiler  thickened  with  flour  and  butter,  add  oysters 
and  serve. 

Fried  Oysters.  Lay  upon  clean  cloth  and  press  another  lightly 
over  them;  prepare  crackers  by  crushing  fine;  beat  two  eggs,  tea- 
spoon salt  and  pepper  in  a  bowl ;  dip  each  oyster  in  crumbs,  then  in 
egg  and  again  in  crumbs,  until  well  encrusted ;  let  stand  an  hour  in 
cool  place.  Fry  to  a  delicate  brown  in  hot  lard  and  butter  (half  of 
each)  and  serve  at  once  on  hot  platter.  Mrs.  W .  A.  Edson. 

Scalloped  Oysters.     I  pint  oysters,  4  tablespoons  oyster  liquor, 

2  tablespoons  milk  or  cream,  y2  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  cracker 
crumbs,  y2  cup  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  bread  and 
cracker  crumbs  and  stir  in  butter.  Put  a  thin  layer  in  bottom  of  a 
buttered  baking-dish,  cover  with  oysters,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper;  add  one  half  each  oyster  liquor  and  cream.  Repeat,  and 
cover  top  with  remaining  crumbs.  Bake  30  minutes  in  hot  oven. 
Never  allow  more  than  2  layers  of  oysters  for  scalloped  oysters ;  if 

3  layers  are  used,  the  middle  layer  will  be  underdone. 

Oyster  Boulettes.  To  1  cup  minced  oysters  add  1  cup  soft 
bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  bit  of  mace,  and  a  beaten  egg.  Put  on 
ice  for  2  hours,  then  drop  small  spoonfuls  in  hot  butter  in  spider  and 
cook  quickly  on  both  sides.    Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Oyster  Pie.  Drain  1  y2  pints  large  oysters,  add  2  cups  cream, 
pepper,  salt,  and  dash  nutmeg,  and  enough  fine  cracker  crumbs  to 
thicken.  Line  a  buttered  dish  with  puff  paste,  put  in  mixture,  put  an 
inverted  cup  in  centre,  cover  with  the  paste,  and  bake      of  an  hour. 

Oyster  Cocktail.  8  small  raw  oysters,  1  tablespoon  tomato 
catsup,  y2  tablespoon  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  2  drops  Tabasco,  salt, 
1  teaspoon  celery,  finely  chopped,  y2  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce. 
Mix  ingredients,  chill  thoroughly,  and  serve  in  cocktail  glasses,  or 
cases  made  from  green  peppers  placed  on  a  bed  of  crushed  ice. 

Panned  Oysters.  Clean  1  pint  large  oysters.  Place  in  drip- 
ping pan  small  oblong  pieces  of  toast,  put  an  oyster  on  each  piece, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake  until  oysters  are  plump. 


Hunting  Coat; 


Best  on  Earth — "Nasby,"  136  Main 


14 


Hunting  Cap: 


"Nasby,"  136  Main  Street 


Serve  with  lemon  butter : — Cream  3  tablespoons  butter,  add  ^  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne. 

Lobster  Cutlets.  1  can  lobsters,  2  heaping  tablespoons  butter, 
y2  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  1  teaspoon  salt,  paprika,  1  whole 
egg,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cook  together  and 
add  lobster.   Spread  on  platter  to  cool.    Shape  into  12  cutlets.  Roll 

in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs.  Fry. 

Sauce : — Mayonnaise  dressing,  1  teaspoon  capers,  3  olives,  2 
gherkins,  red  pepper,  onion  juice  and  Worcestershire  sauce. 


Shell  Vests— "Nasby,"  136  Main  Street 


Shell  Belts— "Nasby,"  136  Main  Street 


17 


EGGS,  CHEESE,  AND  OMELETS. 


Stuffed  Eggs.  Boil  6  eggs  twenty  minutes.  Remove  the  shells 
and  cut  carefully  lengthwise.  Remove  the  yolks,  mash  and  add  i 
teaspoon  soft  butter,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  half  the  quan- 
tity of  potted  or  deviled  ham.  Fill  the  whites  with  the  mixture, 
smooth  them,  and  press  the  two  whites  together,  being  careful  to  fit 
them  just  as  they  were  cut.  Spread  the  remainder  of  the  yolk  mix- 
ture on  a  shallow  dish  and  place  the  eggs  on  it.  Cover  with  a  thin 
white  sauce,  or  any  chicken  or  veal  gravy ;  sprinkle  buttered  crumbs 
over  the  whole,  and  bake  till  the  crumbs  are  a  delicate  brown,  or — 
also,  after  the  eggs  are  filled  with  the  above  mixture  and  put  together 
as  above,  roll  each  egg  in  fine  bread  crumbs  and  beaten  egg  and  in 
bread  crumbs  again,  then  repeat  the  process,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot 
lard.  Drain  and  serve  hot  with  tomato  sauce  or  garnished  with 
parsley. 

Filled  Eggs — With  Sauce.  Boil  hard  i  dozen  eggs ;  take  off 
the  shell  and  cut  lengthwise.  Take  out  the  yolks,  chop  up  with  a 
handful  of  lobster  meat,  a  few  capers,  and  season ;  add  a  little  bread, 
fill  the  eggs,  place  in  pan  and  bake.  Serve  with  thickened  cream 
sauce.  Mrs.  Cora  Brozvn. 

Baked  Eggs.  Soak  a  cupful  of  bread  crumbs  in  %  cup  hot 
milk  for  twenty  minutes,  stir  in  i  teaspoon  butter,  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  i  tablespoon  grated  cheese,  2  tablespoons  savory  broth,  a  little 
minced  onion,  and  a  teaspoon  of  minced  parsley.  Pour  the  mixture 
in  a  neat  pie  plate  and  set,  covered,  in  a  quick  oven.  In  six  minutes 
lift  the  cover,  break  as  many  eggs  on  the  bubbling  surface  as  the 
dish  will  hold,  sift  fine  crumbs  on  top  and  leave  in  the  oven  for  three 
minutes  longer.    Serve  in  the  dish.  Mrs.  Cora  Brozvn. 

Deviled  Eggs.  Boil  i  dozen  eggs  hard ;  cut  in  two,  lengthwise, 
take  out  the  yolks  and  mash  them.  Prepare  2  teaspoons  mustard  by 
pouring  a  very  little  boiling  water  on,  and  mix  smooth,  add  a  small 
teaspoon  of  butter,  i  of  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  a  few  drops  of  vine- 
gar. Mix  some  of  the  prepared  mustard  with  the  yolks  and  refill  the 
white  part  of  eggs  with  the  dressing. 


3-in-l  Oil — all  sizes — "Nasby,"  136  Main  Street. 

2 


18 


Go  to  136  Main  for  Magazines 


Creamed  Eggs.  Remove  the  shells  from  6  hard  boiled  eggs, 
cut  them  in  halves,  and  cut  a  slice  off  the  round  end,  enough  to  make 
them  stand.  Put  i  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan  to  melt,  add  i 
tablespoon  flour,  mix  till  smooth,  add  i  teacup  milk  or  cream,  and 
stir  until  it  boils ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stand  the  eggs  on  a 
heated  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over,  and  serve. 

Scrambled  Eggs.  Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  adding  i  table- 
spoon sweet  milk  for  each  egg,  season  with  salt  and  melt  i  teaspoon 
butter  in  frying  pan,  turn  the  eggs  in,  stir  constantly  until  a  light 
yellow  mass,  serve  quickly.  Mrs.  T.  K.  Nickers  on. 

Egg  Sandwiches.  Cut  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  slice  hard 
boiled  eggs,  cover  a  slice  with  them,  lay  a  few  water  cress  tips  or 
chopped  celery  over  them  with  salt  and  pepper,  lay  another  slice 
over  them  and  cut  in  shape.  Mrs.  E.  W .  Woods. 

A  Delicious  Omelet.  4  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  milk,  ^2  cup 
bread  crumbs.  Put  a  generous  piece  of  butter  in  the  frying  pan, 
pour  in  the  mixture  and  cook  slowly  for  ten  minutes.  Slip  a  knife 
around  the  edge,  and  if  done  just  right,  it  can  be  turned  or  rolled  as 
it  is  placed  upon  the  hot  platter.  This  is  more  light  and  delicate  than 
if  made  of  all  eggs.  Mrs.  T.  A.  Lane,  Victor,  la. 

Omelet.  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  flour  to  each  egg,  4  tablespoons 
milk,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  bake  in  oven.    Mrs.  Emma  Faulkner. 

Omelet.  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  pour  over  these  1  cup  milk,  4 
eggs  well  beaten,  (yolks  and  whites  separately)  pepper  and  salt. 
Pour  on  greased  pan  and  brown  on  both  sides.    Mrs.  E.  B.  Allen. 

Mexican  Omelet.  1  quart  tomatoes,  2  tablespoons  butter,  y2 
teaspoon  cayenne  pepper,  3  tablespoons  flour,  salt,  2  or  3  eggs.  Melt 
butter,  rub  in  the  flour  and  a  little  mustard,  salt  and  pepper;  add 
tomatoes.  Heat  all  to  boiling  point,  add  eggs  and  stir  till  thick. 
Serve  on  crackers  or  salted  wafers.  Mrs.  F.  W .  Myatt. 

Various  Omelets.  Any  sort  of  an  omelet  can  be  made  by  fold- 
ing into  the  omelet  either  sardines,  tomatoes,  ham,  oysters,  cheese, 
mushrooms,  macaroni,  or  whatever  one  desires  or  has  on  hand. 

Chafiing  Dish  Eggs.  Slice  an  onion  into  frying  pan  with  large 
lump  of  butter.    When  onion  is  brown  add  four  or  six  eggs  with  1 


Home  of  Gansert's  Chocolate: 


Nasby,"  136  Main 


Distinctly  a  Ladies  Store,  136  Main 


19 


teaspoon  sweet  cream  for  each  egg.  Add  Yi  pint  canned  tomatoes 
and  serve  on  buttered  toast.  Grace  Crane  Keck. 

Scalloped  Eggs.  Fill  a  shallow  baking  dish  half  way  with 
stale  bread  crumbs,  break  eggs  on  the  crumbs,  pour  on  enough  sweet 
milk  to  almost  reach  the  eggs,  pepper,  salt  and  butter  on  top  and 
bake  until  eggs  are  as  hard  as  desired.         Mrs.  L.  T.  Martensen. 

Omelet.  Over  i  cup  soft  bread  crumbs,  pour  cream  or  milk 
to  cover,  salt  and  pepper  and  beat  with  fork.  Beat  yolks  of  six  eggs 
light,  also  whites,  separately.  Drain  cream  from  the  bread  crumbs 
and  mix  crumbs  with  yolks,  beat  well.  Fold  in  whites  and  pour  into 
buttered  skillet  and  set  on  gas  for  2  minutes,  then  for  12  minutes  in 
hot  oven.  Turn  out  on  hot  dish  and  surround  with  fresh  or  pre- 
served strawberries. 

Washington  Omelet.  Pour  cup  of  boiling  milk  over  1  cup  of 
bread  crumbs;  break  5  eggs  into  a  bowl,  stir  well,  add  milk  and 
bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  slowly  in  tablespoon  of  butter ; 
turn;  serve  at  once.  Mrs.  Geo.  M.  Wendell. 

Egg  Canape.  Make  a  white  sauce  and  add  the  chopped  whites 
of  three  hard  boiled  eggs.  Pour  this  over  thin  slices  of  buttered 
toast.  Put  the  egg  yolks  through  a  vegetable  press  and  sprinkle  over 
the  top.    Squares  of  rich  pie  crust  may  be  used  in  place  of  toast. 

Edith  Morden. 

Welsh  Rarebit.  1  lb.  cream  cheese,  1  heaping  dessert-spoon 
cornstarch,  1  egg,  cup  cream.  Dissolve  cornstarch  in  cream. 
Beat  egg  and  add  to  mixture.  Cut  up  cheese  and  pour  in  mixture. 
Put  in  double  boiler  and  stir  until  melted  and  about  to  thicken. 

Welsh  Rarebit,  au  Gratin.  y2  lb.  cheese,  6  slices  thin  toast, 
salt  and  pepper,  mustard  sauce.  Cut  the  cheese  into  slices  one  inch 
thick :  lay  the  toast  in  a  dripping  pan,  cover  each  with  slices  of  cheese, 
spread  with  a  made  mustard  and  dust  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Set  in  a  hot  oven  till  well  melted,  about  ten  minutes.  The  addition 
of  a  dropped  egg  to  each  slice  makes  what  is  called  a  Golden  Buck. 

Cheese  Souffle.  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  of  cheese,  1  cup 
of  milk  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Cook  in  double  boiler.  Add  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  bake. 

Bernice  Banghart  Grant,  Omaha,  Neb. 


Late  Fashion  Books  all  the  Time — "Nasby,"  136  Main  Street 


20 


The  Chicago  Sunday  Paper  Store,  136  Main 


Cheese  Canapes,  i  cup  grated  cheese,  teaspoon  salt,  few 
grains  cayenne,  6  slices  of  bread.  Cut  the  bread  into  circular  pieces, 
sprinkle  with  a  thick  layer  of  grated  cheese,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper ;  place  on  a  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  the  oven  or  under  the  gas 
flame  until  cheese  is  melted.    Serve  at  once. 

Cheese.  i  lb.  cream  cheese  grated,  i  pimento,  i  small  onion, 
grated.  Sauce : — i  egg  beaten  light,  4  tablespoons  cream,  2  table- 
spoons vinegar,  little  red  pepper,  salt  and  mustard.  Put  on  fire,  cook 
until  stiff.  Pour  this  sauce  while  hot  over  the  cheese  and  beat,  add- 
ing pimento  and  onion.   Mold  and  keep  in  cool  place. 

Cheese  Dreams.  Round  slices  of  bread.  Whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Fold  into  egg  white,  grated  cheese  till  of  spreading 
consistency.  Add  salt  and  paprika.  Spread  on  bread  inch  thick. 
Place  in  medium  oven  and  brown.    Serve  hot. 

Appetizer.  Cut  round  pieces  of  bread,  toast  on  one  side,  turn 
toasted  side  down,  and  butter  top  side.  Take  boneless  and  skinless 
sardines,  split  and  place  on  buttered  side.  Put  slice  of  fresh  tomato 
on  sardines.  Cover  tomato  with  grated  American  cheese  about  one 
inch  thick.   Bake  in  medium  oven  until  cheese  is  melted. 

Strawberry  Cocktail.  Add  to  the  juice  of  3  oranges  the  juice 
of  1  lemon,  and  powdered  sugar  to  taste.  Make  the  mixture  rather 
tart.  Wash,  drain  and  chill  some  choice  strawberries.  At  serving 
time  cut  the  berries  in  halves,  dispose  them  in  cocktail  glasses,  cover 
with  the  fruit  juice  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  finely  shaved  or  cracked 
ice.   This  is  a  novel  dainty  to  serve  as  first  course  at  a  luncheon. 

Mrs.  L.  T.  Mar  tens  en. 

Kimona  Sandwiches.  3  Spanish  peppers,  2  hard  boiled  eggs, 
1  cream  cheese,  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion,  red  pepper  and  salt. 
Chop  peppers  fine,  put  eggs  through  potato  ricer,  mix  cheese  with 
mayonnaise  dressing  until  the  right  consistency  to  spread,  then  add 
peppers,  eggs  and  onions. 

Ribbon  Sandwiches.  Remove  all  the  crust  from  a  large  loaf 
of  bread,  and  cut  the  loaf  lengthwise  in  5  equal  slices.  Butter  very 
slightly  each  slice  with  the  following  mixture :  First,  minced  ham. 
Second,  hard  boiled  eggs,  lettuce  and  pimentos,  chopped  together. 
Third,  minced  veal  and  nuts,  put  through  chopper.  Fourth,  figs  and 
preserved  ginger  chopped  together.    If  ingredients  do  not  spread 


Fancy  Box  Stationery — "Nasby,"  136  Main 


My  Candies  Melt  (in  your  mouth) — "Nasby" 


21 


easily,  moisten  with  thick  sweet  cream.  Press  together,  cover  with 
the  fifth  buttered  slice,  cover  with  oiled  paper  and  weight  it  down 
until  ready  for  use.  Cut  in  slices  crosswise  about  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness. 

Buttered  Dates.  Stone  dates,  insert  a  pecan  and  a  very  small 
piece  of  butter.  Place  on  buttered  tin  and  warm  in  oven.  Delicious 
served  at  afternoon  teas.  Marion  Jane  Kucheman. 


Take  Home  a  Box  of  My  Chocolates — "Nasby" 


"Nasby's"  Subscription  Agency,  136  Main  Street 


23 


BATTER. 


French  Toast.    Make  a  batter  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

1  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  dip  slices  of  bread  in  and 
fry  brown  in  well  buttered  frying  pan ;  can  use  dry  bread. 

Corn  Gems.  I CUPS  sweet  milk,  I  cup  corn  meal,  I  cup 
flour,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter ;  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon  salt.   Bake  in  gem  tins. 

Mrs.  Pierce  Mitchell. 

Gems.     i  egg,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
cup  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  i  tablespoon  sugar,  small  piece  butter.  Mix 
flour,  baking  powder  and  butter  together.    Quickly  stir  in  the  sugar, 
beaten  eggs  and  milk.    Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Franc  Bozven  Myatt. 

Muffins  for  Two.  i  cup  flour,  y2  cup  milk,  i  egg,  tablespoon 
sugar,  tablespoon  butter,  y  teaspoon  salt,  i  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der. Sift  salt,  sugar,  flour  and  baking  powder,  into  these  rub  butter, 
add  well  beaten  egg  and  milk.  Beat  all  thoroughly  and  bake  in 
muffin  tins.  Lura  Hicks. 

Muffins.    2  cups  sifted  flour,  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  i  egg,  3  tablespoons  melted  butter,  about  1  cup 
milk,  y2  teaspoon  salt.  Sift  together  three  times  the  flour,  baking 
powder,  sugar  and  salt ;  beat  the  eggs,  add  the  milk  and  melted  but- 
ter, and  stir  into  the  dry  ingredients  to  make  a  drop  batter,  bake  in 
hot,  well  buttered  gem  pans  about  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  Isa  J.  Kucheman. 

Cream  Muffins.  1  cup  sweet  cream,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  2  heap- 
ing teaspoons  baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  make  batter  to  drop 
from  spoon.   Makes  1  doz.  Mrs.  Levi  Keck. 

Graham  Muffins.  1  cup  graham  flour,  1  cup  white  flour,  1  cup 
milk,  y±  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  y2  tablespoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  butter,  3 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add 
milk  gradually.  Add  melted  butter,  beat  well.  Add  beaten  egg. 
Bake  25  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  in  greased  pans.        Myrl  Ristine. 


Don't  Forget  the  Number — 136  Main — "Nasby" 


24 


Use  My  Telephone  any  time — "Nasby,"  136  Main 


Whole  Wheat  Muffins.  2  eggs,  i  tablespoon  melted  butter,  y2 
teaspoon  salt,  pint  milk  and  2  heaping  teaspoons  Royal  baking 
powder.    Flour  enough  to  make  stiff  batter.    Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Date  Muffins.  2  tablespoons  butter,  ^  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs, 
i  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a  pi,  -:h  of  salt, 
i  cup  dates  chopped  fine.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs 
well  beaten.  Add  milk,  then  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted.  Beat 
thoroughly  and  add  salt  and  dates  floured  and  cut  fine.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Bran  Gems.  y2  cup  sugar,  i  egg,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  i  cup 
flour,  2  cups  Bran,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake  30  minutes  in 
a  slow  oven.  Mrs.  Sam  Wing. 

Blueberry  Souffine.  Melted  butter  size  of  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar, 
1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  egg,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  y> 
can  blueberries  not  floured.  Directions  for  making: — Sift  sugar, 
baking  powder  and  flour  together,  add  egg  well  beaten,  melted  but- 
ter, milk  and  the  blueberries.  Bake  in  buttered  gem  pans  in  a  hot 
oven  thirty  minutes.  Camilla  Stephens  Cook. 

Johnny  Cake.  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1 
egg,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup 
corn  meal,  salt.  Mrs.  Alf.  Butterworth. 

Never  Fail  Corn  Bread.  1  cup  corn  meal,  1  cup  white  flour, 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  %  CUP  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  scant 
cup  milk,  2  eggs,  ^4  CUP  melted  butter.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingre- 
dients. Add  milk  gradually,  eggs  well  beaten  and  butter.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes.  Camilla  Stephens  Cook. 

Johnny  Cake.  1 CUP  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, 1  egg,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  cup 
flour,  1  cup  corn  meal.    Excellent.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Fletcher. 

Johnny  Cake.  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter, 
1  egg,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  corn  meal,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  salt.  Mrs.  Alf.  Butterworth. 

Corn  Meal  Gems.  Beat  together  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup  sugar 
and  two  eggs.  When  smooth  add  2  cups  sweet  milk  and  2  cups 
each  of  corn  meal  and  flour.  Lastly  add  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
and  bake  in  gem  pans.  Edith  Morden. 


Au  Revoir,  but  not  Good-bye — "Nasby" 


Mariensen's  are  originators  of  better  quality  at  lower  prices  25 


Corn  Meal  Gems.     1*4  CUP  sweet  milk,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  egg,  i  tablespoon  melted  butter,  i  cup  flour,  i  cup  corn  meal, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  Earl  B.  Avery,  Custer  City,  Okla. 

Che  jib  Toast.  Have  ready  slices  of  toast  made  from  white 
bread.  Put  into  a  pan  one  pint  of  cream  and  a  cup  of  grated  cheese, 
a  lump  of  butter  and  a  little  salt ;  allow  this  to  come  to  a  simmer  on 
the  stove,  and  turn  over  the  slices  of  toast  in  the  mixture.  This  is 
delicious.  Mrs.  C. 

Rice  Toast.  Boil  a  cup  of  rice  the  previous  night,  turn  it  into 
a  square,  narrow  pan,  set  in  the  ice  box;  in  the  morning  cut  it  into 
half-inch  slices,  rub  over  each  a  little  warm  butter,  and  toast  on  a 
broiler  to  a  delicate  brown. 

Batter  Cakes  Without  Eggs,  i  pint  buttermilk,  teaspoon 
soda,  little  salt,  i  pint  flour,  i  teaspoon  melted  butter.  Beat  to  a 
perfect  foam,  as  the  perfection  of  your  cakes  depend  largely  upon 
this.    Bake  on  hot  griddle. 

Waffles.  2  cups  flour,  2  cups  milk,  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  scant  teaspoon  salt.  To  mix,  separate  the  whites  and  yolks 
of  eggs,  beating  separately,  add  milk  to  yolks,  add  baking  powder, 
and  salt  to  flour.   Mix  together  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs. 

Chas.  A.  Gallagher. 

Waffles  for  Two.  6  tablespoons  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  2  eggs.  Make 
soft  batter  with  milk. 

Crumb  Pan  Cakes.  1 1/2  cups  coarse  bread  crumbs,  2  cups 
milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  eggs,  1  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  %  teaspoon  salt.  Cook  the  crumbs  in  a  double  boiler  for 
fifteen  minutes,  rub  through  a  sieve.  When  cool  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs  and  the  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  salt. 
Then  fold  in  the  whites  beaten  very  stiff  and  bake  slowly  as 
ordinary  griddle  cakes. 

Rice  Breakfast  Cakes.  1  teacup  soft  boiled  rice,  yolk  of  1  egg, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  two  tablespoons  sifted  flour.  Beat  well  together, 
add  sweet  milk  until  it  is  about  the  consistency  of  thick  cream  and 
just  before  baking  stir  in  lightly  white  of  egg  well  beaten. 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


26 


Linens !  yes  you  get  better  linens  at  Martensen's 


Corn  Cakes,  i  egg  well  beaten,  add  i  heaping  tablespoon  flour 
and  mix  well,  add  one  cup  sour  milk,  i  scant  teaspoon  soda,  salt, 
and  four  handfuls  corn  meal.    Bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Pan  Cakes.  i  pint  sour  milk,  i  teaspoon  soda,  Y/i  teaspoon 
salt,  i  egg,  i  tablespoon  melted  butter,  flour  to  make  a  smooth 
firm  batter. 

Buckwheat  Cakes.    Dissolve  a  cake  of  Fleischman's  yeast  in 

y2  cup  of  tepid  water.  Put  2  quarts  of  warm  water  in  a  large 
crock  and  add  yeast,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  one  tablespoon  salt 
and  stir  in  2  quarts  of  buckwheat  flour.  Let  stand  in  a  warm 
place  till  morning  and  add  y>  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  ]/2  cup 
of  boiling  water.  Stir  and  bake  on  h%t,  griddle  greased  with 
good  lard.  The  batter  should  be  stirre^a*  little  too  thick  at 
night  rather  than  too  thin  as  more  hot  water  can  be  added  in  the 
morning.  Save  the  batter  left  over,  and  in  the  evening  add  1  quart 
of  tepid  water,  1  quart  of  buckwheat  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar  and 
half  as  much  salt.  Beat  well  and  set  away  to  rise  fp'ft  morning 
when  soda  and  hot  water  should  be  added  as  before.  This'^process 
may  be  continued  for  weeks.  y2  cake  of  new  yeast  should  be 
added  every  week  or  ten  days  and  a  little  more  soda  will  be  needed 
for  a  few  days  before  addition  of  new  yeast. 

German  Potato  Cakes.  1  pint  graded  raw  potatoes,  1  egg, 
1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  a  little  salf,  and  flour^to 
make  good  batter.    Fry  on  well  oiled  griddle.    Fine  with  sausage. 

Canned  Corn  Griddle  Cakes.  3  cups  sifted  flour,  3  level  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt,  3  eggs,  1  can  corn,  iy2 
cups  milk.    Bake  on  a  well  greased  griddle. 

Corn  Fritters.  1  can  of  corn  or  corn  from  6  cobs,  3  eggs, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  flour.  Drop  spoonful  of  batter  into 
a  greased  pan  and  fry  light  brown.  Delicious  with  syrup  or  can 
be  eaten  with  pork  chops  and  gravy.  Agnes  Staack. 

Corn  Fritters.  Green  corn  off  cob  or  one  can  corn,  1  table- 
spoon melted  butter,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  egg, 
salt,  y2  cup  sweet  milk.  Melt  butter,  add  corn,  flour,  and  slightly 
beaten  egg,  then  baking  powder  and  milk.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  in 
hot  fat  and  fry  until  brown.  Mrs.  Harvey  N.  Dilley. 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


All  goods  are  sold  on  the  quality  value  basis  at  Martensen's  27 


Strawberry  Fritters.  Crush  and  sieve  fresh  berries  to  make 
i  cup  of  pulp,  add  3  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  mixed 
with  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  enough  more  flour  to  make  thick 
drop  batter,  fry  in  deep  kettle  of  smoking  fat  and  serve  with  plenty 
of  mashed  berries.  Mrs.  Owen  McCaffrey. 

Fritters.  4  well  beaten  eggs,  1  quart  flour,  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  teaspoon  salt,  milk  to  make  a  batter; 
fry  in  hot  lard  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  or  eat  with  syrup. 

Mrs.  John  Collamer. 

Pineapple  Fritters.  Slice  pineapple  in  cubes  or  crescents, sugar 
them  and  put  away  to  draw  while  a  batter  is  being  made  of  2  eggs, 
1  pint  milk,  flour  to  make  proper  consistency,  having  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder  mixed  into  the  flour.  Dip  each  piece  of  fruit  into 
flour,  then  in  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  deep  fat;  drain  and  sprinkle 
with  chopped  almonds,  season  with  a  little  lemon  juice. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Krepps. 

Apple  Fritters.  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  1  level  teaspoon  of  soda 
dissolved  in  1  cup  buttermilk  or  sour  milk;  nutmeg  to  flavor. 
Flour  to  make  a  drop  batter.  Add  to  this  1  tart  apple  thinly 
sliced.    Drop  by  tablespoon  into  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Staman,  Elwood,  Iowa. 

Scotch  Scones.  Sift  iy2  pints  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  and  mix  with  a  pint  of  sour  milk.  Mix  to  a  soft 
dough.  Lay  on  a  well  floured  baking  board  and  roll  one  inch 
thick.  Cut  with  a  round  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle 
until  brown  on  both  sides.  Bernice  Banghart  Grant,  Omaha,  Neb. 

Never  Fail  Dumplings.  2  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, 1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  milk,  mix  dry  ingredients  then  add 
milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  by  spoonful  into  the  boiling 
stock.  Boil  with  cover  of  kettle  off  15  minutes,  then  cover  and 
boil  5  minutes.  The  boiling  is  the  important  part.  Enough  for  a 
small  family.  Mrs.  L.  W.  Clark,  Chester,  Iowa. 

Soup  Dumplings.  1  quart  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar 
or  baking  powder,  1  of  soda,  pinch  of  salt,  milk  sufficient  to  wet 
the  flour.    Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  boiling  soup,  boil  half  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Stephen  Palmer. 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


28     Martensen's  are  originators  of  better  quality  at  lower  prices 


Dumplings.  i  cup  sweet  milk,  i  cup  flour,  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  pinch  salt,  boil  20  minutes  in  meat  stock. 

Hat  tie  DePew. 

Dumplings.  2  eggs,  1  pint  of  flour,  2  heaping  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt,  milk  enough  to  make  stiff  batter, 
boil  20  minutes  and  don't  cover.        Mrs.  N.  E.  Butterzvorth. 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


Linens !  yes  you  get  better  linens  at  Martensen's  31 


BREAD,  ROLLS,  AND 
BISCUITS. 


OUR  DAILY  BREAD. 

Back  of  the  loaf  is  the  snowy  flour, 

And  back  of  the  flour  the  mill ; 
And  back  of  the  mill  the  wheat,  and  the  shower, 

And  the  sun,  and  the  Father's  will. 


Yeast  Starter.  Take  i  pint  of  potato  water  and  i  cake  of 
yeast  foam,  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  put  in  a  glass  fruit  jar 
and  let  stand  3  days  before  using,  never  put  salt  in  potatoes  when 
cooking  for  this  yeast;  keep  in  a  cool  place;  when  ready  to  bake, 
take  two  cups  of  potato  water  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  add 
to  your  jar  of  yeast  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  foam.  In  the  eve- 
ning take  2  cups  of  the  liquid  yeast  and  2  cups  of  warm  water, 
2  tablespoons  of  melted  lard,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  1  of  salt, 
and  flour  to  mix  stiff;  put  into  a  warm  jar  and  let  rise  over  night 
in  the  morning  work  down,  make  into  loaves  and  let  raise  again, 
and  bake  1  hour.  When  you  have  taken  out  your  yeast  for  the 
bread  leave  a  cupful  of  the  liquid  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
and  set  away  until  next  baking  day,  never  using  any  dry  yeast  only 
to  start  the  first  time.    This  will  make  four  loaves  of  bread. 

Bread.  Cook  3  potatoes  at  noon,  mash  fine;  save  potato  water, 
add  enough  water  to  make  1  quart,  put  1  cake  yeast  to  soak,  in 
the  evening  take  potato  water,  potatoes  and  yeast,  adding  flour  to 
make  a  sponge.  In  the  morning  add  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  table- 
spoon sugar,  3  tablespoons  melted  lard  and  flour  enough  to  make 
stiff.  Let  rise  again  and  make  into  loaves.  Bake  from  forty-five 
minutes  to  an  hour.    Be  careful  not  to  get  the  dough  too  stiff. 

Mrs.  Emerson  Cain. 

Bread  Made  with  Bread  Mixer.  Eight  loaves.  When  boiling 
potatoes  at  noon  save  potato  water  and  mash  four  potatoes;  dis- 
solve in  it  iy2  cakes  dried  yeast.    At  night  measure  potato  water 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


32     All  goods  are  sold  on  the  quality  value  basis  at  Martensen's 


and  add  enough  more  water  to  make  two  quarts  in  all,  add  2  table- 
spoons sugar,  2  of  salt,  and  4  of  lard;  add  6  quarts  flour  and  stir 
until  mixed.  In  the  morning  it  should  be  light,  stir  down,  let  rise 
again  and  then  make  into  loaves. 

Salt  Rising  Bread.  Fine.  At  night  let  a  teacup  of  fresh  milk 
come  to  a  boil,  stir  in  a  small  teacup  of  cornmeal,  while  hot,  with 
a  little  salt  and  set  away  until  morning  where  it  will  not  get  too 
cold.  Then  take  1  pint  warm  water,  put  in  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and 
about  the  same  of  sugar,  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter 
and  add  the  mush  set  the  night  before.  Set  the  vessel  in  a  pan  of 
warm  water  and  keep  warm  until  it  rises.  Sift  the  flour  well,  mix 
the  risen  yeast  in  and  add  as  much  water  or  sweet  milk  and  water 
as  will  make  two  or  three  loaves  of  bread.  Put  in  a  bread  pan  or 
crock  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  again.  Then  knead  well  and 
put  in  the  baking  pans  and  let  rise  until  ready  to  bake.  No  lard  is 
required  except  to  grease  top  of  loaves  well  before  putting  in  to 
bake  to  prevent  the  crust  from  being  hard. 

Graham  Bread.  1  pint  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  V2  cup 
brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  lard,  1  teaspoon  salt,  Graham  flour 
enough  for  a  thick  batter.    Bake  slowly  for  iy2  hours. 

M.  F.  Shepherd. 

Graham  Bread.  T/2  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  lard,  3  cups  bread 
sponge.  Add  2  cups  Graham  flour,  1  cup  white  flour,  salt  to  suit 
taste.  Mix  and  let  raise  until  light,  knead  down,  let  raise  until 
light,  knead  into  loaves  and  bake. 

Oat  Meal  Bread.  3  cups  of  rolled  oat  meal,  scalded  with  1 
quart  of  water,  salt,  1  cup  of  sweetening,  1  yeast  cake.  Do  this  in 
the  evening.  In  the  morning  add  about  6  cups  of  white  flour,  and 
knead  into  loaves.  Let  raise  and  bake.  Grease  top  of  loaves  before 
baking  to  prevent  the  crust  being  too  hard. 

Fannie  C.  Goodenow. 
Bran  Bread.    1  pint  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  %  cup  sugar, 
1  pint  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  cup  raisins,  1  quart  bran, 
1  teaspoon  salt.    Bake  one  hour  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Butterworth. 

Rye  Bread.  Set  yeast  or  sponge  in  the  morning  and  let  rise 
through  the  day.  Mix  a  quart  of  rye-graham  flour  with  enough 
water  to  make  a  sponge.   Add  the  yeast  and  set  in  a  warm  place 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


Martensen's  are  originators  of  better  quality  at  lower  prices 


33 


to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  mix  with  wheat  flour  and  add 
i  tablespoon  salt  and  let  rise  again.  When  light  put  in  pans  and  al- 
low to  stand  until  light,  but  not  too  light  as  it  may  crumble  when 
baked.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  i  hour  or  i  hour  and  15  minutes,  the 
time  depending  on  the  size  of  the  loaf.  Mrs.  J.  Brodersen. 

Raised  Bread  Cake.  2  cups  bread  sponge,  2  cups  sugar,  2 
eggs,  1  cup  butter,  %  CUP  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  of 
flour,  spices  and  raisins.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Anderson. 

Raisin  Bread.  1  cake  compressed  yeast,  1  cup  luke-warm 
water,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  scalded  and  cooled,  6  cups  sifted  flour,, 
cup  sugar,  4  tablespoons  crisco  or  lard  or  butter,  %  cup  raisins, 
1  teaspoon  salt.  Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  sugar  in 
luke-warm  liquid,  add  two  cups  flour,  the  shortening  and  sugar  well 
creamed,  and  beat  until  smooth.  Cover  and  set  aside  to  rise  in  a 
warm  place  until  real  light,  about  1J/2  hours.  When  light  add 
raisins  well  floured,  flour  to  make  soft  dough  and  lastly  the  salt, 
knead  lightly,  place  in  greased  bowl  and  let  rise  till  double  in  size, 
mould  in  loaves,  fill  well  greased  pans  half  full  and  cover  and  let  rise 
until  light,  about  one  hour,  glace  with  egg  diluted  with  water  and 
bake  about  forty-five  minutes.  Mrs.  A.  M.  Avery. 

Boston  Brown  Bread.  J/2  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  J/2  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  2  cups  graham 
flour.  Mary  Petersen. 

Baked  Brown  Bread.  1  y2  cups  sour  milk,  l/2  cup  sour  cream, 
4  cups  graham  flour,  1  cup  white  flour,  ^4  CUP  niolasses,  1  cup 
raisins  or  nuts,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  3  eggs,  pinch 
of  salt.   Bake  in  slow  oven  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Mrs.  Mabel  Pattison,  Fargo,  N.  D. 

Nut  Brown  Bread.  1  J/2  cups  sour  cream  or  half  cream  and 
half  milk,  2  cups  graham  flour,  J/2  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
1  cup  white  white  flour,  J/2  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  walnut  meats. 
Method :  Beat  cream  and  molasses  together,  add  dry  ingredients 
sifted  together,  beat  thoroughly.  This  is  a  very  stiff  drop  batter. 
Bake  in  a  greased  individual  bread  tin,  put  in  a  layer  of  dough,  then 
a  layer  of  nuts,  etc.,  having  the  dough  on  top.  Bake  slowly  1J/2 
hours.  Mrs.  Mabel  Pattison,  Fargo,  N.  D. 


3 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


34 


Linens !  yes  you  get  better  linens  at  Martensen's 


Brown  Bread.  i  y2  cups  corn  meal,  i  y2  cups  graham  flour,  2 
cups  sour  milk,  iy>  teaspoons  soda,  i  teaspoon  salt,  i  cup  raisins, 

1  cup  nuts,  i  cup  sorghum,  steam  2  hours.       Mrs.  R.  S.  Grant. 

Nut  Bread.  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoonsful  baking  powder,  1  egg, 
y2  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  y2  cup  nuts.  Put  in  pan  and  let  raise  half 
hour  and  then  bake  for  half  hour.  Mrs.  E.  A.  Philips. 

Nut  Bread.  4  cups  of  graham  flour,  2  cups  of  wheat,  4  cups  of 
sour  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  2  teaspoons  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup 
of  nut  meats,  1  cup  of  raisins.  Mix  well,  put  in  greased  pan,  let 
raise  3  hours,  bake  1  hour  in  moderate  heated  oven. 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Walker. 

Nut  Bread.  Mix  4  cups  flour  and  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
add  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  y2  cup  raisins,  %  CUP  sugar,  iy2  cups 
milk,  1  egg,  and  j4  CUP  shortening.   Bake  one  hour. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Gregory 

Date-Nut  Bread.  1  cup  graham  flour,  1  cup  white  flour,  y2  cup 
C  sugar,  1  level  teaspoon  salt,  4  level  tablespoons  nut  meats,  3  table- 
spoons chopped  dates,  3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  milk. 
Bake  45  minutes.  Ida  Simpson. 

Nut  Bread.  cup  sugar,  2  cups  graham  flour,  2  cups  wheat 
flour,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  salt,  4  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  1  big  cup  nut  meats.    Makes  two  loaves. 

Mrs.  Justus  B.  Murray. 

Potato  Rolls.  1  cup  mashed  potatoes,  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  cup 
flour,  %  cup  lard,  1  cup  milk,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  cake  compressed 
yeast,  dissolved  in  y2  cup  luke  warm  water.    Let  this  mixture  rise 

2  hours,  then  add  1  quart  flour,  and  let  rise.  After  last  raising,  set 
in  cool  place.  Mrs.  Emory  Hinckley. 

Buns.  1  cake  yeast  put  to  soak  at  noon  in  1  cup  of  warm  water 
and  set  until  night.  Make  in  batter  and  let  rise  till  morning,  add  3 
cups  warm  water,  y2  cup  lard,  y2  cup  sugar,  teaspoon  salt.  Mix 
stiff  like  bread,  raise  until  night  then  make  into  buns.  Place  them 
1  inch  apart.  Mrs.  W .  R.  Knight. 

Yankee  Buns.  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  English  walnut  meats,  1  cup 
butter,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  buttermilk,  5  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons 
soda,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  nutmeg,  pinch  of  salt.  Drop  with 
teaspoon  dipped  in  hot  water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Miss  Elsie  Taubman. 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


All  goods  are  sold  on  the  quality  value  basis  at  Martensen's  35 


Penny  Muffins.  2  cups  hot  water,  2  tablespoons  lard,  2  eggs 
beaten,  Yz  cup  sugar,  i  yeast  cake  soaked,  i  teaspoon  salt,  almost  as 
much  flour  as  you  can  stir  in  with  a  spoon.  Make  in  small  rolls  and 
put  into  small  muffin  rings  and  when  very  light  bake  ten  minutes  or 
more  in  quick  oven.  Set  them  at  noon,  work  down  at  night,  make 
out  in  morning  and  rise  in  time  for  dinner.  Keep  dough  in  ice  box 
and  use  all  or  a  part  when  needed.  If  wanted  at  night,  start  at 
night,  work  down  in  morning,  put  in  tins  at  noon. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Hughes,  Beach,  N.  D. 

Rusks.  2  teacups  raised  dough,  i  teacup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter, 
2  well  beaten  eggs,  flour  enough  to  make  quite  a  stiff  dough,  set  to 
rise  and  when  light  mold  into  biscuits,  let  rise  again  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Margaret  Banghart. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit.  3  cups  pastry  flour,  3  level  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt,  %  to  %  cup  shortening,  about  one 
cup  milk  or  water.  Sift  together,  three  times,  the  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt.  With  the  tips  of  the  fingers  work  in  the  shortening ; 
then  mix  to  a  dough  with  the  liquid.  Knead  lightly  on  a  floured 
board,  roll  into  a  sheet  and  cut  into  rounds.   Bake  about  1 5  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  0.  Webster. 

Buttermilk  Biscuits.  Sift  1  quart  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  2  scant  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter 
or  lard  and  2  cups  of  buttermilk  to  which  a  scant  teaspoon  of  soda 
has  been  added.  Roll  them  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  bake 
in  a  very  hot  oven.   Fine.  Mrs.  S.  B.  Ripple. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits.  2  cups  flour,  4  level  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  2  level  tablespoons  lard  or  butter,  y2  teaspoon  salt.  1  tea- 
spoon sugar.  Mix  and  sift  all  dry  ingredients  together,  work  in 
shortening  with  knife  or  spoon,  add  gradually  enough  sweet  milk 
or  water  to  make  a  very  soft  dough,  mixing  quickly  with  a  knife  or 
spoon,  roll  ^2  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  small  cutter,  brush  over  with 
melted  butter,  let  stand  10  minutes,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  12  to  15 
minutes.  Mrs.  Jas.  F.  McGinnis. 

Graham  Biscuits.  2  cups  milk,  1  cup  water,  1  cup  sugar,  % 
cup  lard,  add  yeast,  knead  up  hard  at  night,  half  graham  and  half 
wheat  flour,  mix  in  the  morning,  and  when  light  make  into  biscuits. 
Be  careful  not  to  mix  too  stiff.  Mrs.  M.  Dalzell 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


36     Martensen's  are  originators  of  better  quality  at  lower  prices 


Manx  "Scone"  or  Biscuit.  6  tablespoons  flour,  sifted,  3  table- 
spoons cocoanut,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  drippings, 
teaspoon  carbonate  of  soda,  y2  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.    Mix  with 
sweet  milk  and  bake  in  gem  tins.  Miss  Elsie  Taubman. 

Coffee  Bread.  Put  1-3  cup  of  sugar,  1-3  cup  of  butter,  and  y2 
teaspoon  salt  into  bowl  and  pour  over  it  1  cup  of  scalded  milk. 
When  the  mixture  is  luke  warm,  add  1  yeast  cake,  broken  in  small 
pieces  and  dissolved  in  y  cup  of  luke  warm  water.  2  eggs  lightly 
beaten,  and  enough  bread  flour  once  sifted,  to  make  a  stiff  batter, 
beat  thoroughly,  cover  and  let  raise  until  mixture  has  doubled  in 
bulk,  cut  down,  beat  thoroughly  and  spread  evenly  in  two  but- 
tered round  layer  cake  tins,  sprinkle  with  nut  mixture,  let  raise  and 
bake  in  hot  oven  30  minutes.  For  the  nut  mixture,  mix  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar  and  %  teaspoon  of  soft  stale  bread  crumbs,  2  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter,  and  3  tablespoons  of  chopped  almonds. 

Coffee  Cake.  Stir  butter  and  lard  y  cup  of  each  with  3 
tablespoons  sugar,  1  or  2  beaten  eggs,  add  one  cup  luke  warm  milk, 
salt,  a  little  grated  lemon  rind,  raisins  if  desired,  1  small  cup  yeast, 
enough  flour  for  a  soft  dough.  Let  rise  over  night,  then  put  in  pans, 
let  rise  again.  Before  placing  in  oven,  spread  top  with  melted  butter 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  chopped  almonds. 

Mrs.  Anna  Bauch. 

Dutch  Apple  Cake.  1  cup  milk,  CUP  butter  or  lard,  CUP 
sugar,  1-3  teaspoon  salt,  1  yeast  cake,  2  eggs,  4  sour  apples.  Mix 
hot  milk,  sugar  and  salt,  when  luke  warm  add  dissolved  yeast  and 
then  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let  rise,  beat  thoroughly  and  let 
rise  again,  spread  in  buttered  pan.  Pare  and  divide  the  apples  into 
eighths.  Press  the  sharp  edges  into  the  dough,  sprinkle  with  sugar 
mixture,  let  rise  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  30  minutes. 
For  sugar  mixture,  mix  4  tablespoons  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
2  tablespoons  currants.  Myrl  Restine. 

German  Coffee  Cake.  1  pint  light  bread  sponge,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  1  egg,  y2  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  raisins,  y2  cup  butter,  enough  flour 
to  make  soft  dough,  let  rise  until  light,  then  roll  out  about  y>  inch 
thick.  Spread  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 
Let  rise  and  when  light  bake  in  a  slow  oven  from  30  to  40  minutes. 

Mrs.  J  Brodersen. 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


Linens !  yes  you  get  better  linens  at  Martensen's 


39 


MEATS. 


"Some  hae  meat  that  cannot  eat, 
And  some  would  eat  that  want  it ; 
But  we  hae  meat  and  we  can  eat, 
Sae  let  the  Lord  be  thankit." — Burns. 

The  proper  relishes  to  be  used  with  meat  are  as  follows : 


Beef   .  Horseradish  or  Catsup 

Mutton  Mint  sauce  or  Catsup 

Lamb   Mint  sauce 

Pork   Apple  Sauce 

Turkey   Cranberry  Sauce 

Chicken   Currant  Jelly 

Venison  Jelly  or  Catsup 


Beef  Roast.  To  roast  beef,  the  fire  must  be  clear  and  hot  at 
first,  to  sear  the  outside  quickly.  Then  lower  the  temperature,  cook 
for  15  minutes  to  each  pound.  It  takes  longer  accordingly  for  a 
large  roast  as  the  heat  must  penetrate  to  the  centre.  Turn  until  the 
whole  outside  is  seared.  Add  salt  when  the  meat  is  nearly  done; 
never  add  it  at  first,  as  it  draws  out  the  juice  and  toughens  the  meat. 
As  the  fat  begins  to  melt,  add  a  little  warm  water. 

Yorkshire  Pudding.  To  serve  with  roast  beef  as  garnish.  Beat 
3  eggs  very  light.  Add  1  scant  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one  pint  of  milk. 
Pour  y2  cup  of  this  mixture  on  2-3  of  a  cup  of  flour  and  stir  to  a 
smooth  paste.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  mixture  and  beat  well. 
Bake  in  hot  gem  pans  30  minutes.  Baste  with  the  drippings  from 
the  beef. 

Spanish  Roast.  One  cut  of  round  steak  1  y2  to  2  inches  thick. 
First  salt  and  pepper,  then  pound  in  flour  as  much  as  you  can  on 
both  sides,  about  J/2  cup.  Then  brown  butter  in  a  roasting  pan  and 
put  roast  in.  Cover  top  with  slices  of  Bermuda  or  some  kind  of 
large  onion.  Then  cover  with  1  quart  can  of  tomatoes.  Roast  2 
hours.   Do  not  turn.  Lena  A.  S.  Blessing. 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


40     All  goods  are  sold  on  the  quality  value  basis  at  Martensen's 


Beef  and  Tomatoes.  2  lbs.  round  steak,  small  piece  of  suet,  3 
ripe  tomatoes  sliced  or  2  cups  canned  tomatoes,  1  large  onion,  salt 
and  pepper.  Cut  steak  thick  and  turn  in  flour.  Chop  suet  and  heat 
in  frying  pan.  Brown  meat  in  this  and  afterwards  make  a  thin 
gravy.  Put  meat  in  roaster,  season,  and  over  it  pour  gravy  and  slice 
tomato  and  onion  over  all.   Roast  two  hours.        Elizabeth  Kaler. 

Sausage  for  Luncheon  or  Breakfast.  Carefully  wipe  and  re- 
move cores  from  good  sized  sour  apples.  Fill  with  well  seasoned 
sausage  meat,  pork  is  best.  Place  in  baking  pan  in  moderate  oven 
one  hour.  Must  be  well  done.  Have  ready  slices  of  toasted  bread. 
Place  an  apple  on  each  slice  and  pour  over  a  teaspoon  of  melted  but- 
ter.   Serve  hot.    Garnish  with  parsley  and  whole  sausages. 

Beef  A  La  Mode.    4  or  6  pounds  of  round  beef  cut  thick.  Put 

in  earthen  dish  and  pour  over  it  spiced  vinegar.  1  onion  chopped  fine, 
3  teaspoons  of  salt,  and  r2  a  teaspoon  each,  of  mustard,  pepper, 
cloves  and  allspice.  Let  the  meat  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
insert  10  or  12  strips  of  salt  pork  cut  1-3  inch  square;  tie  into  good 
shape  with  a  narrow  strip  of  cotton  cloth.  Put  into  porcelain  kettle 
with  2  onions  and  1  carrot,  sliced,  also  1  cup  of  vinegar,  add  water 
as  it  boils  away  :  cook  on  back  of  stove  or  in  oven  3  or  4  hours  or  un- 
til tender.  Remove  the  meat  and  make  gravy  from  the  juice  in  ket- 
tle. Keeps  several  weeks  in  winter,  and  when  heated  up  in  gravy 
is  as  good  as  when  first  cooked.  Mrs.  Chas.  von  Schroder. 

Cannelon.    Chop  fine  1  pound  of  raw  beef,  mix  with  1  egg,  I 

tablespoon  chopped  parsle)-,  1  of  butter,  1  of  bread  crumbs,  1  tea- 
spoon lemon  juice.  1  teaspoon  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Form  into  a 
roll  six  inches  long,  and  wrap  in  oiled  paper,  put  into  a  baking  dish 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  30  minutes,  basting  it  twice.  Place  on  a 
hot  platter  and  serve  with  mushrooms  or  brown  sauce  poured  over 
it.  Emma  G.  Fort. 

Meat  Bails.  34  *b-  round  steak.  ?4  lb.  fresh  pork,  put  through 
grinder,  J  2  cup  rice,  cover  with  water,  and  simmer  until  dry,  mix 
with  meat,  salt,  pepper  and  onion  juice  to  taste.  Add  1  well  beaten 
egg.  form  into  balls  and  cook  3^  of  an  hour  in  a  can  of  tomatoes  to 
which  a  chopped  green  pepper  and  onion  has  been  added.  Y\  hen 
done  thicken  the  juice  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  of  butter. 
Will  serve  eight  people.  Virginia  Trumbo  Jones. 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


Martensen's  are  originators  of  better  quality  at  lower  prices  41 


Round  Steak  en  Casserole.  2  pounds  round  steak  cut  34  inch 
thick.  Take  i  cup  flour  and  mix  it  with  y2  teaspoon  pepper  and  i  of 
salt.  Dredge  the  meat  and  fry  in  deep  fat  until  brown,  warm  cas- 
serole and  put  in  a  generous  lump  of  butter,  then  the  meat.  Make  a 
gravy  from  remainder  of  flour.  Pour  over  meat,  cover  and  bake 
for  2  hours  in  moderate  oven. 

Beefsteak  Smothered  in  Onions.  This  sounds  like  a  most  ple- 
bian  dish,  but  one  favored  by  men  epicures.  Slice  2  Spanish  on- 
ions and  put  them  in  ice  water  to  which  add  i  tablespoon  each  salt 
and  sugar,  and  let  them  stand  2  hours.  Drain,  dry,  and  separate  in 
rings,  cook  quickly  in  hot  spider  in  a  very  little  salt-pork  fat,  cov- 
ered, until  tender,  remove  cover,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  until 
they  are  light  brown.  Place  in  hot  dish  in  oven  and  panbroil  the 
steak  in  the  very  hot  spider.  Place  on  platter  and  cover  with  onions, 
and  place  in  oven  i  minute  to  insure  its  being  very  hot. 

Sauerbratin.  (Mock  Venison.)  Take  a  thick  piece  of  beef 
from  the  rump;  put  into  weak,  hot  vinegar  to  which  whole  pepper, 
cloves  and  a  bay  leaf  have  been  added,  and  leave  two  or  three  days, 
turning  the  meat  each  day,  and  keep  in  a  cold  place.  Then  lard  it 
with  bacon,  put  over  a  hot  fire  to  dry  off,  brown  in  the  fat  and  stew 
2]/2  hours.  Emma  G.  Fort. 

Mock  Quail.  Get  whole  pork  tenderloins ;  cut  in  3  inch  lengths, 
split  one  side  and  pound  flat,  stuff  with  dressing  and  fasten  with 
toothpicks,  place  neatly  in  a  dripping  pan  and  add  a  little  water,  salt 
and  pepper,  bake  half  hour.  When  done,  thicken  the  gravy  and  put 
over  them  on  a  hot  platter. 

Sugar  Cured  Pork.  For  one  hog.  4  oz.  saltpeter,  5  oz.  black 
pepper,  1  lb.  sugar,  5  pts.  salt.  Dissolve  the  saltpeter  in  hot  water. 
Put  all  the  above  in  large  dish  pan.  Add  enough  hot  water  so  it  will 
mix  up  mushy,  then  rub  it  well  all  over  the  meat,  lay  the  meat  on 
clean  boards  that  have  been  well  sprinkled  with  salt  in  a  cool  place 
where  it  will  not  freeze  while  it  is  salting.  When  all  your  meat  is 
on  boards,  take  the  remainder  of  the  mixture  and  put  on  the  fleshy 
side  of  the  meat.  In  10  or  15  days,  hang  up  and  smoke.  Wrap  in 
paper  and  keep  in  dry  place.  This  is  excellent ;  meat  cured  this  way 
never  becomes  too  salty  and  keeps  splendidly. 

Mrs.  D.  W.  Davis. 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


42  Linens !  yes  you  get  better  linens  at  Martensen's 


Pork  Sausage.  To  every  pound  of  meat  add  i  teaspoon  salt, 
y2  teaspoon  pepper,  y2  teaspoon  cloves,  y2  teaspoon  sugar.  Grind 
and  mix  thoroughly  together.  Lena  A.  S.  Blessing. 

Chicago  Dish,  i  lb.  sausage  cut  up  fine,  4  onions  cut  fine,  cook 
this  in  water  quite  a  while,  take  y2  box  spaghetti,  cook,  add  this  to 
sausage ;  pour  over  this  1  can  Campbell's  tomato  soup. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Allen. 

Royal  Scallop.  1  cup  chopped  cold  boiled  ham,  1  cup  white 
sauce  or  milk  gravy,  %  cup  buttered  crumbs,  4  hard  boiled  eggs. 
Chop  egg  whites  and  add  them  to  white  sauce.  Grate  egg  yolks  and 
add  to  chopped  ham.  Combine  meat  and  sauce  and  place  in  a  but- 
tered baking  dish.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  for  ten  minutes.   Nice  to  use  in  place  of  vegetables. 

Mrs.  F.  W.  Wray. 

Baked  Ham.  Place  a  slice  of  ham  about  iy2  inches  thick  in 
a  shallow  pan  and  cover  with  milk.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  the 
ham  is  a  light-brown  on  top.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  flour  to  the  liquid 
in  the  pan  and  when  well  blended  add  a  cup  or  more  of  milk  for  the 
gravy.    Ham  is  delicious  served  in  this  way. 

Mrs.  N.  E.  Butterworth. 

Ham  Patties.  1  cup  finely  chopped  ham,  y  cup  fine  bread 
crumbs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  y  teaspoon  of 
pepper,  y  cup  of  milk.  Mix  the  meat  with  the  bread  crumbs  and 
sesonings,  add  the  butter  melted,  moisten  with  the  milk  and  half  fill 
greased  patty  pans  with  the  mixture,  break  one  egg  on  top  of  each, 
sprinkle  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  with  fine  cracker  crumbs. 
Bake  eight  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  "Beach  Batches/' 

Ham  baked.  Soak  ham  over  night  in  water,  to  which  add  1 
cup  vinegar  and  2  tablespoons  sugar,  or,  if  at  hand,  soak  it  in  butter- 
milk. In  morning,  scrub  it  with  soda  water,  wipe  dry,  and  com- 
pletely cover  it  with  a  paste  %  inch  thick  of  flour  and  water  stiff 
enough  to  roll.  Wet  edges  and  pinch  together  and  bake  in  oven  or 
fireless  cooker  five  hours.  Remove  dough,  skin,  and  some  of  the 
fat,  then  spread  with  a  paste  made  of  equal  parts  of  dry  mustard, 
brown  sugar,  vinegar,  a  little  pepper  and  bake  one  lour,  or  soak  sev- 
eral hours  or  over  night  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Wash  thoroughly 
trim,  cover  with  cold  water,  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Take  from 
water,  remove  outside  skin,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  fine  cracker 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


All  goods  are  sold  on  the  quality  value  basis  at  Mariensen's  43 


crumbs,  and  stick  with  cloves  y2  inch  apart  and  bake  in  sweet  milk 
one  hour  in  slow  oven.  Mrs.  0.  C.  Kucheman. 

Ham  en  Casserole.  Freshen  2  slices  of  ham  cut  2  inches  thick. 
Place  in  casserole.  Sprinkle  brown  sugar  on  each  layer,  cover  with 
sweet  milk,  bake  slowly  2  hours. 

Ham  Canapes.  y2  cup  minced  ham,  2  tablespoons  butter,  I 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Mix  the  ham,  butter  and  seasonings  to 
a  smooth  paste;  cut  the  bread  into  circles,  fry  brown,  and  spread 
with  the  ham  mixture. 

Baked  Pork  with  Apples.  Put  the  roast  in  a  pan  and  season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  when  about  2-3  done  or  more,  pour  off 
the  fat,  then  surround  the  roast  with  apples  prepared  the  following 
way:  pare  the  upper  part  of  apples  about  2  inches  wide  and  put  a 
cap  of  dough  over  the  peeled  part ;  bake  until  the  apples  are  done. 

Breaded  Pork  Chops  or  Steak.  Bread  as  for  veal  cutlets,  fry 
brown  on  both  sides,  add  hot  water,  and  cook  slowly  for  a  half  or 
three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Fried  Salt  Pork.  Take  a  nice  piece  of  pork  with  scarcely  any 
lean,  cut  in  thin  slices ;  have  the  skillet  half  full  of  either  warm  or 
cold  water,  lay  the  pieces  in  and  let  them  remain  until  the  water 
boils,  then  take  them  out,  turn  out  the  water,  roll  the  pieces  in  flour 
or  Indian  meal  and  fry  till  a  delicate  brown  on  both  sides. 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton.  Have  your  mutton  well  aged  if  you 
wish  it  to  be  tender,  wash  it  and  while  wet  rub  thoroughly  every 
part  with  salt.  Place  in  roaster  without  cover  and  put  in  hot  oven. 
Do  not  put  any  water  in  pan  until  roast  is  nearly  cooked,  then  very 
little.  Baste  frequently.  Serve  with  caper  sauce,  made  by  adding 
capers  and  a  little  vinegar  to  gravy. 

Meat  Loaf .  \y2  pounds  of  round  beefsteak,  1  pound  of  lean 
pork,  grind  through  chopper.  Then  add  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  salt,  a 
pinch  of  pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  cup  of  hot  milk,  1  cup  of 
rolled  cracker  crumbs,  bake  one  hour  or  a  trifle  longer,  pour  y2  cup 
of  boiling  water  around  it  when  you  put  it  in  the  oven. 

Mrs.  Agnes  Simpson. 

Meat  Loaf.  12  Boston  crackers  rolled,  3  lbs.  veal  chopped 
fine,  3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  pepper,  1  tablespoon  salt,  a  little  pork. 
Flavor  with  sage  and  bake  two  hours.  Mrs.  A.  A.  Suthers. 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


44 


Meet  me  at  Broxam  &  Hinckley's 


Meat  Loaf,  i  lb.  veal,  i  lb.  fresh  pork,  season  and  boil  till 
tender.  Then  remove  the  bone,  chop,  coarse  and  mix  with  2  eggs, 
2  slices  bread,  and  liquor  in  which  it  was  cooked,  1  pt.  Bake  in 
oven  a  short  time  till  light  brown.  Mrs.  Minnie  Shepherd. 

Pressed  Meat.  Boil  the  glutinous  part  from  a  leg  of  veal  or 
beef  (3  or  4  pounds)  till  it  drops  to  pieces  with  3  or  4  kernels  of  all- 
spice, chop  fine,  strain  the  liquor,  mix  with  meat  and  season  to  taste. 
Boil  a  tongue,  peel,  place  in  a  bread  tin  a  portion  of  the  chopped  meat 
on  which  put  the  tongue  and  cover  the  rest  of  the  meat,  having  it 
completely  surround  the  tongue.  Place  a  weight  on  top  and  put  in 
cool  place  until  thoroughly  cold.  Slice  thin.  Should  the  meat  not 
adhere  to  tongue,  gelatine  can  be  used.  Mrs.  Frank  Lyman. 

Veal  Cutlets  with  Tomato  Sauce.  Wipe  and  remove  the  bone, 
skin  and  tough  membranes.  Pound  and  cut,  or  shape  into  pieces  for 
serving.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Roll  in  cracker  crumbs, 
then  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  several  slices  of 
salt  pork  fat.  Cook  slowly.  Tomato  Sauce — Yi  can  tomatoes,  1 
cup  water,  2  cloves,  2  pepper  corns,  2  sprigs  parsley,  1  tablespoon 
chopped  onion,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  heaping  tablespoon  cornstarch, 
J/2  teaspoon  salt,  y2  saltspoon  pepper.  Put  the  tomato,  water,  spices 
and  parsley  on  to  boil  in  a  granite  saucepan.  Fry  the  onion  in  the 
butter  till  yellow,  add  the  cornstarch,  and  stir  all  into  the  tomato. 
Simmer  ten  minutes;  add  the  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper,  and  strain  the  sauce  over  the  cutlets. 

Pigs  in  Blankets.  Drain  large  oysters,  wrap  each  one  in  a 
blanket  of  the  thinnest  possible  slice  of  bacon,  pinned  together  with 
wooden  toothpicks ;  fry  quickly  and  not  too  much.  Serve  on  toasted 
brown  bread  with  lemon.  Mrs.  F.  R.  Waters. 

Pigs  in  Blanket.  Take  one  large  oyster  or  two  small  ones  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  wrap  with  a  thin  slice  of  bacon,  and  fasten  with  a  tooth- 
pick; place  in  pan  and  bake  20  to  25  minutes,  one  ordinary  slice  of 
bacon  will  make  two  pigs. 

Jewish  Stewed  Tongue.  Boil  a  calf's  tongue  in  salted  water 
until  tender.  Slice  thin.  Heat  2  tablespoons  butter ;  add  1  chopped 
onion  and  stir  in  1  tablespoon  flour  until  brown.  Add  2  cups  of 
water  in  which  the  tongue  was  cooked,  %  cup  seeded  raisins,  a  few 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Cake  Colorings 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Pure  Spices 


45 


cloves,  a  bay  leaf,  CUP  vinegar,  and  Yz  teaspoon  paprika.  Boil 
well,  then  add  sliced  tongue  and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Serve  hot  or 
cold.  Bernice  Bang  hart  Grant,  Omaha,  Neb. 

Lamb  Chops  en  Casserole.  Sear  the  chops  quickly  in  hot  but- 
ter, put  them  in  the  buttered  casserole,  and  keep  hot  while  cooking  2 
tablespoons  butter  in  pan  with  i  tablespoon  minced  onion,  i  of  green 
pepper,  i  cup  sliced  mushrooms,  i  cup  stock,  ^  cup  stewed  tomatoes, 
cup  minced  celery,  salt,  pepper  and  i  teaspoon  of  curry  dissolved 
in  a  little  stock.  Add  i  cup  of  potato  balls,  cover  and  cook  ten  min- 
utes, turn  into  the  casserole,  cover  and  cook  y2  hour.  Thicken 
sauce  with  i  tablespoon  butter  and  one  of  flour  rubbed  together,  cook 
a  few  minutes  and  serve.  Mrs.  0.  C.  Kitcheman. 

Casserole  of  Rice  and  Veal.  Line  a  mold,  slightly  greased, 
with  steamed  rice.  Fill  the  center  with  2  cups  cold,  finely  chopped 
cooked  veal,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  celery  salt,  onion 
juice  and  lemon  juice.  Add  CUP  cracker  crumbs,  i  egg  slightly 
beaten  and  enough  hot  stock  or  water  to  moisten.  Cover  meat  with 
rice,  cover  rice  with  buttered  paper  to  keep  out  moisture  while  steam- 
ing, and  steam  45  minutes.  Serve  on  platter  surrounded  with  to- 
mato sauce.  Lena  A.  S.  Blessing. 

Sweetbreads  with  Mushrooms.  Take  one  pair  of  sweet 
breads,  parboil,  blanch  and  slice  them,  1  dozen  mushrooms  chopped 
coarsely,  %  pint  of  cream,  1  gill  of  mushroom  liquor,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  salt  and  white  pepper; 
cook  the  butter  and  flour  together  over  boiling  water,  pour  upon  them 
the  cream  and  mushroom  liquor,  stir  until  smooth,  and  lay  in  the 
sweetbreads,  let  them  cook  three  minutes,  put  in  the  chopped  mush- 
rooms and  seasoning,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  very 
slowly,  stirring  all  the  time.  Cook  two  minutes  after  the  eggs  are  in 
and  serve.  Mrs.  M.  Rice. 

To  Prepare  Sweetbreads:  Carefully  remove  pipes,  mem- 
branes and  tough  outer  skin,  and  put  into  cold  water.  After  10  min- 
utes put  in  boiling  salted  water  and  let  boil  about  20  minutes.  Drain, 
and  lay  in  cold  water  for  five  minutes  to  harden,  take  out,  wipe  dry 
and  place  where  cold  until  wanted.  This  process  should  always  be 
done  no  matter  what  the  subsequent  mode  of  cooking  may  be. 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Flavoring  Extracts 


46 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Birthday  Cards 


Casserole  of  Mock  Sweetbreads  with  Potato  Border.       i  lb. 

of  uncooked  veal  cut  into  half  inch  cubes  and  cooked  with  i  slice  of 
onion  in  boiling  salted  water  till  tender.  Make  i  cup  white  sauce, 
season  with  i  saltspoon  salt,  i  saltspoon  celery  salt  and  Yz  saltspoon 
pepper.  Put  the  veal  and  Yz  cup  mushrooms  cut  into  quarters  into 
the  sauce.  Heat  over  hot  water  until  the  meat  and  mushrooms  are 
hot.  Remove  from  fire ;  add  quickly  i  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  i 
well  beaten  egg.  Serve  on  side  a  potato  border  or  on  toast  garnished 
with  toast  points. 

Potato  Border-. — i  quart  of  mashed  and  seasoned  potatoes 
shaped  into  a  mound  like  a  wall  in  baking  dish.  Brush  over  with 
beaten  white  or  yolk  of  egg  and  brown ;  fill  with  the  veal  and  mush- 
rooms or  any  kind  of  cooked  meat  or  fish  warmed  in  a  white  or 
brown  sauce. 

Roast  Goose  with  Potato  Stuffing.    Singe,  remove  pin  feathers, 

wash  and  scrub  a  goose  in  hot  soapsuds;  then  draw  (which  is  re- 
moving inside  contents).  Wash  in  cold  water  and  wipe.  Stuff, 
truss,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  six  thin  strips  fat  salt 
pork  over  breast.  Place  on  rack  in  dripping  pan,  put  in  hot  oven, 
and  bake  two  hours.  Baste  every  fifteen  minutes  with  fat  in  pan. 
When  done,  place  on  platter,  cut  string,  and  remove  string  and 
skewers.  Garnish  with  watercress  and  bright  red  cranberries.  Serve 
with  apple  sauce. 

Potato  Stuffing — 2  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes,  1*4  cups  soft 
stale  bread  crumbs,  CUP  finely  chopped  fat  salt  pork,  i  finely 
chopped  onion,  small  piece  of  butter,  i  egg,  1^2  teaspoons  salt,  1 
teaspoon  sage. 

Chicken  Croquettes.  To  1  cup  chopped  meat,  add  1  cup  bread 
crumbs,  2  eggs,  salt  and  pepper,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  wetting 
enough  to  form  into  balls ;  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry 
hard.  Mrs.  B.  A.  Spencer. 

Fried  Chicken.  Dip  each  piece  of  chicken  into  water  but  do 
not  wipe  it  afterwards.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  roll  in 
flour.  Fry  in  equal  parts  of  butter  and  lard.  When  the  chicken  is 
well  cooked,  and  is  a  good  brown,  add  enough  hot  water  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pan.  Push  the  pan  away  from  the  heat,  and  let  it 
stand  for  ten  minutes.  After  taking  up  the  chicken,  a  gravy  can  be 
made  from  the  drippings. 

Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Silver  Polish 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Vanilla  Extract 


47 


Cream  Chicken.  One  chicken,  4  sweetbreads,  1  can  mush- 
rooms. Cook  chicken  until  tender,  boil  sweetbreads  one-half  hour. 
Cut  the  chicken,  sweet  breads  and  mushrooms  into  small  pieces.  Put 
in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  first  a  layer  of  meat  and  mushrooms  and 
then  a  layer  of  dressing  and  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  on  top.  The 
dressing — Stir  into  4  tablespoons  melted  butter,  5  tablespoons  of 
flour,  then  add  1  quart  milk  and  boil  until  it  thickens.  Flavor  with 
onion  juice,  black  and  red  pepper  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

Mrs.  Chas.  W.  Farr. 

Grouse.  Grouse  should  stand  for  one  hour  or  more  in  cold 
water  after  being  skinned.   It  may  then  be  fried  the  same  as  chicken. 

Chicken  Creamed  a  la  King.  Marinate  2  cups  chicken,  cut  in 
slivers,  in  French  dressing  an  hour  and  drain.  Cook  2  tablespoons 
butter  with  one  small  green  pepper,  shredded,  add  1  cup  fresh  mush- 
rooms, sliced  thin,  ^  teaspoon  grated  onion,  and  2  tablespoons  flour. 
When  boiling  add  1  cup  milk,  little  salt,  paprika,  dash  nutmeg,  and 
the  chicken.  When  boiling  again  add  1  tablespoon  chopped  capers, 
2  beaten  yolks  mixed  with  %  cup  thick  cream  and  J4  creamed  butter. 
Add  a  few  drops  lemon  juice,  dust  with  paprika,  and  served  gar- 
nished with  triangles  of  puff  paste,  or  can  be  served  in  patty  cases. 

Mrs.  0.  C.  Kucheman. 

Chicken  Fried  in  the  Oven.  Cut  up  the  chicken,  season,  and 
roll  well  in  flour.  Heat  two  tablespoons  of  lard  in  a  dripping  pan. 
Lay  in  the  chicken  and  pour  on  enough  boiling  water  to  half  cover  it 
Place  in  a  quick  oven  and  let  brown  well  on  top,  then  turn  each  piece, 
and  brown  well  on  the  other  side.  The  older  the  chicken  the  longer 
it  must  be  cooked.  Cut  up  the  giblets  in  the  gravy,  thicken  with  flour 
and  butter,  add  a  cup  of  cream  and  serve. 

Chicken  Pie.  Boil  2  chickens  until  tender.  Remove  all  bone. 
Make  a  gravy  of  1  pint  sweet  cream  and  1  pint  rich  milk,  thicken 
with  cup  butter  and  2  tablespoons  flour.  Stir  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether, add  milk.  Make  rich  baking  powder  crust.  Line  sides  and 
bottom  of  a  six  quart  pan.  Turn  a  teacup  in  the  middle  and  pour 
chicken  around  it.  Then  put  in  the  gravy.  Season  to  taste.  Put  on 
top  crust  and  bake  %  hour.    Brush  top  with  white  of  egg. 

Mrs.  0.  A.  Ellithorpe. 

Chicken  Pie  Crust.  2  cups  flour,  ]/2  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  milk, 
2  tablespoons  butter,  1  beaten  egg,  1  ^2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Paper  Napkins 


48 


Broxam  &  Hinikley  for  Cocoa  Butter 


Chicken  en  Casserole.  Wipe  a  4^  pound  chicken  dry  and  cut 
in  pieces  for  serving.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  spread  gener- 
ously with  butter  and  lay  in  casserole.  Add  a  cup  of  boiling  water, 
put  on  cover  and  cook  until  it  is  tender.  Then  add  1  cup  of  cream 
or  y2  cream  and  milk,  and  if  you  would  have  it  especially  fine,  2 
cups  of  fresh  mushrooms  and  cup  cooked  green  peas.  Cook  cov- 
ered 15  minutes.  Drain  off  the  gravy,  thicken  with  1  tablespoon 
flour  wet  with  cold  water.  Stir  and  cook  until  gravy  thickens.  Then 
pour  back  into  the  casserole  and  serve. 

Rabbit.  Cut  up,  wash  and  cook  in  salt  water  until  well  done ; 
take  out  and  dredge  in  flour  and  pepper.  Brown  in  butter,  turning 
frequently.  Add  a  teacup  of  milk  or  water,  and  let  it  boil  enough  to 
thicken.    Serve  with  currant  or  grape  jelly. 

Fried  or  Smothered  Quail.  Pick  the  quail  dry  and,  after  they 
are  washed  and  dried,  rub  with  salt.  Turn  them  in  flour  and  put 
them  in  a  skillet,  containing  plenty  of  hot  butter  and  lard.  Let  them 
fry  slowly,  cover  with  a  lid  and  add  a  little  cold  water  occasion- 
ally.  When  brown  put  on  a  platter,  garnished  with  parsley. 

Gravy  for  Above. — Add  a  little  cold  water  to  loosen  the  nice 
brown  from  the  skillet.  Then  add  cream  and  keep  stirring  until  it 
thickens. 

Quail  on  Toast.  After  dressing,  split  open  down  the  back,  and 
let  stand  in  soda  water  a  few  minutes,  drain  and  place  in  roasting 
pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  flour,  and  plenty  of  butter. 
Pour  over  all  a  little  hot  water  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
nicely  browned  and  tender.  Put  on  buttered  toast  and  pour  drip- 
pings over  birds  and  toast. 

Chili  Con  Carni.    2  lbs.  round  steak  run  through  food  chopper, 

1  can  tomatoes,  1  good  sized  onion,  1  can  red  kidney  beans.  Cook 
meat,  tomatoes  and  onion  until  meat  is  tender,  add  red  kidney  beans 
and  seasoning  and  bake  Yi  hour.  Mrs.  Emory  Hinckley. 

Chili  Con  Carni.    1 T/2  to  2  lbs.  beef,  preferably  from  the  round, 

2  cups  Mexican  beans,  1  large  can  tomatoes,  2  large  onions,  2  pep- 
per sauce  peppers,  ^2  cup  pimento  olives  cut  in  pieces,  salt  and  black 
pepper  to  taste.  Cut  the  beef  in  small  pieces  and  brown  in  butter, 
then  cover  with  water  and  stew  till  very  tender.  Then  add  beans 
which  have  been  prepared  as  for  any  other  bean  dish,  onions  cut  in 


Meet  me  at  Broxam  &  Hinckley's 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Cake  Colorings 


49 


slices,  tomatoes  and  seasoning,  and  simmer  till  thick,  add  olives  just 
before  serving. 

Chili  Con  Carni.  i  ten  cent  can  tomatoes,  i  ten  cent  can  kid- 
ney beans,  1 5  cents  worth  hamburg  steak,  1  small  onion.  Cook  ham- 
burg  and  onions  thoroughly,  then  add  tomatoes  and  beans.  Season 
with  salt  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper. 

Mrs.  Mamie  Hayland,  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa. 

Chop  Suey.  1  y2  pounds  round  steak,  1  pound  pork  shoulder, 
10  onions,  2  bunches  celery,  2  tablespoons  cooking  molasses,  1  cup 
mushrooms,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cut  meat  into  small  pieces  and 
brown  in  a  little  butter.  Remove  the  meat  and  brown  the  celery  and 
onions  in  the  drippings.  Add  other  ingredients  and  simmer  until 
meat  and  vegetables  are  tender.  Serve  with  boiled  rice  and  chop 
suey  sauce.  Mrs.  E.  N.  Bills,  Chicago,  111. 

Walnut  Roast.  ( Substitute  for  meat. )  1  cup  nuts,  1  cup 
toasted  bread  crumbs,  1  yi  pts.  rich  milk.  Salt  and  chopped  onion  to 
taste.  Chop  nuts.  Have  bread  crumbs  rolled  fine,  mix  with  milk, 
salt  and  chopped  onion.  Put  into  pan  and  bake  in  oven  until  firm 
and  a  rich  brown.  Lena  A.  S.  Blessing. 

DRESSINGS. 


Oyster  Dressing.  2  quarts  of  soaked  bread  crumbs,  2  eggs,  1 
cup  butter,  1  small  onion  chopped  fine,  mix  and  add  1  pt.  of  oysters. 

Chestnut  Dressing.  Shell  1  qt.  of  large  chestnuts,  pour  on  boil- 
ing water  and  remove  inner  brown  skin.  Boil  in  salted  water  until 
soft.  Mash  fine.  Take  half  for  the  stuffing  and  mix  with  it  1  cup 
of  fine  cracker  crumbs.  Season  with  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon 
of  pepper  and  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley.  Moisten  with  1-3 
cup  melted  butter.   Add  the  remainder  of  chestnuts  to  gravy. 

Chicken  Dressing.  5  slices  of  bread  crumbed,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  teaspoon  of  pepper  and  1  teaspoon  of 
sage. 

Potato  Dressing.  Especially  nice  for  goose  or  duck.  Boil  6 
or  8  potatoes  until  easily  pierced  with  fork.  Chop  and  add  1  large 
or  2  small  onions  chopped.    Season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  add 

1  egg-  

Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Pure  Spices 


4 


50 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Flavoring  Extracts 


Oyster  Gravy.  To  serve  with  roast  turkey  or  chicken,  i  qt. 
oysters,  washed,  drained.  Cook  until  edges  curl,  then  add  i  cup 
sweet  cream,  lump  of  butter  size  of  egg  and  thicken  with  finely  rolled 
cracker  crumbs. 

Apple  and  Celery  Stuffing.  For  ducks  or  goose.  Cook  quickly 
i  tablespoon  minced  onion  in  2  of  butter  and  add  1  cup  each  minced 
celery  and  apple,  cook  five  minutes,  add  1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs, 
salt,  pepper  and  stock  to  moisten. 

Apple  and  Prune  Stuffing.  For  turkey  or  chicken.  Mix  with 
1  cup  each  of  sliced  apples  and  stoned  prunes,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  2  tablespoons  butter  and  water  or  stock. 

Potato  and  Nut  Stuffing.  For  roast  goose.  Mix  1  cup  hot 
mashed  potatoes  with  y2  cup  walnut  or  pecan  meats,  1  teaspoon 
grated  onion,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  pimento  pulp,  1  teaspoon 
savory  herbs,  y2  cup  soft  bread  crumbs,  and  butter  to  soften. 

White  Sauce.  2  tablespoons  butter,  iy2  tablespoons  flour,  1 
cup  scalded  milk,  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  pepper.  Put  butter 
in  saucepan,  stir  until  melted  and  bubbling;  add  flour  mixed  with 
seasonings,  and  stir  until  thoroughly  blended.  Pour  on  gradually 
the  milk,  adding  about  one  third  at  a  time,  stirring  until  well  mixed, 
then  beating  until  smooth  and  glossy.  If  a  wire  whisk  is  used,  all  the 
milk  may  be  added  at  once.  White  Sauce  for  cutlets  and  croquettes 
should  be  made  thicker  by  using  more  flour. 

Mint  Sauce.  Take  fresh  young  spearmint  leaves,  stripped 
from  the  stems ;  wash  and  drain  on  a  cloth.  Chop  very  fine,  put  in 
gravy  boat,  and  to  3  tablespoons  of  mint  add  2  of  sugar ;  mix  and  let 
it  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  over  it  6  tablespoons  of  good  cider 
vinegar.  Make  the  sauce  some  time  before  it  is  to  be  used,  so  that 
the  flavor  of  the  mint  may  be  well  extracted.   Fine  with  roast  lamb. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Avery. 

Mustard.  1  teaspoon  mustard,  2  teaspoons  flour,  2  teaspoons 
sugar,  a  little  salt.  Cook  together  with  boliing  water,  then  thin  with 
a  little  vinegar. 

Mushroom  Sauce.  1  can  mushrooms,  1  tablespoon  butter,  y2 
cup  cream,  1  teaspoon  flour,  little  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper. 

Lena  A.  S.  Blessing. 

Horseradish  Sauce.  3  teaspoons  horseradish,  y2  cup  cream,  y2 
teaspoon  mustard,  y2  teaspoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vinegar.  Whip 
cream  and  mix  in  other  ingredients. 

Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Birthday  Cards 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Silver  Polish 


53 


VEGETABLES. 


Potatoes  in  Seven  Ways  for  Seven  Days.  Sunday  —  Peel, 
steam,  add  milk,  butter  and  salt  and  then  beat  like  cake  batter,  the 
longer  the  better,  till  they  are  nice  and  light. 

Monday — Bake  potatoes  in  their  jackets. 

Tuesday — Pare  and  bake  with  roast  of  beef. 

Wednesday — Cut  raw  potatoes  in  long  cubes,  fry  in  deep,  hot 
fat  until  done,  and  serve  with  broiled  beefsteak. 

Thursday — Peel,  steam  and  serve  whole. 

Friday — Peel,  cut  in  small  cubes  and  steam  until  tender,  then 
cover  with  milk  thickened  with  just  a  little  flour.  Salt  to  taste  and 
add  a  small  piece  of  butter.   Boil  about  a  minute  and  serve  hot. 

Saturday — "Potatoes  a  la  pancake."  Peel,  cut  in  thin  slices 
lengthwise,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  in  butter  or  beef 
fat,  turning  like  griddle  cakes.  Miss  Verona  Tubbs. 

Saratoga  Chips.  Slice  12  large  potatoes  thin  on  a  potato  chip- 
per. Wash  and  rub  well  in  four  waters.  Soak  two  hours  in  ice  cold 
salted  water ;  drain  and  wipe  dry.  Fry  like  doughnuts  only  have  the 
lard  hotter.  When  a  delicate  brown,  take  out  with  a  wire  egg  beater 
and  put  on  brown  paper  to  drain.  When  nearly  dry,  sprinkle  on  a 
little  salt.   Be  careful  and  not  fry  too  many  at  one  time. 

Mrs.  T.  A.  Lane,  Victor,  la. 

Stuffed  Baked  Potatoes.  Bake  6  medium  sized  potatoes,  when 
done  cut  into  halves  and  with  a  spoon  take  out  the  inside  being  care- 
ful not  to  break  the  skins,  add  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  2 
tablespoons  chopped  onions ;  place  in  shells,  close  them  together,  put 
in  oven  for  a  few  minutes  and  serve.  Mrs.  S.  Russell. 

Potato  Croquettes.  1  cup  mashed  potatoes,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  teaspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  minced  celery 
leaves,  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg.  Form  into  cones,  dip  in  white  of  egg, 
roll  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  Ida  Eis entrant  Griffin. 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Vanilla  Extract 


54 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Paper  Napkins 


Potato  Croquettes.     Season  cold  mashed  potatoes  with  pepper, 

salt  and  nutmeg ;  bind  with  2  or  3  beaten  eggs  and  add  some  minced 
parsley ;  roll  into  oval  balls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs 
and  fry  like  doughnuts  in  hot  lard.  Mrs,  A.  J.  House. 

Potatoes  au  Gratin.  Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  mix 
smoothly  with  2  tablespoons  flour ;  add  1  cup  rich  milk  or  cream ;  let 
all  come  to  a  boil ;  when  done  and  cool  somewhat,  add  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  4  large  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  salt  and  pepper.  Have  ready 
thinly  sliced  cold  potatoes,  put  in  the  bottom  of  buttered  baking  dish 
some  of  the  dressing,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  alternately,  until  dish 
is  filled.  Spread  over  the  top  layer,  sauce.  Then  one  of  bread 
crumbs  and  cheese  and  bake.  Mrs.  N.  E.  Butterworth. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes.  Cut  1  pint  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  dice, 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  1  scant  tablespoon  of  minced 
onion  in  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter  until  yellow.  Add  the  potatoes, 
and  stir  with  a  fork  until  they  have  absorbed  all  the  butter,  being 
careful  not  to  break  them.  Add  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  and 
serve  hot.  1  tablespoon  vinegar  heated  with  the  butter  gives  the  po- 
tatoes a  nice  flavor.  Mrs.  Chas.  von  Schrader. 

Potato  Puff.  2  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes,  stir  into  it  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter ;  beat  this  to  a  cream  and  add  2  well  beaten  eggs, 
1  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste ;  beat  well, 
pour  into  deep  dish  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  brown. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Fitzgerald. 

Potatoes  with  Green  Peas.  Pare  old  raw  potatoes ;  cut  in 
round  balls  with  a  potato  scoop.  Boil  in  salt  water  ten  minutes; 
thoroughly  heat  a  can  of  peas,  add  a  pint  of  milk  and  cream  mixed 
thickened  with  a  little  flour ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter  and 
add  the  potatoes.   Serve  hot  on  lettuce  leaf ;  or  garnish  with  parsley. 

Escalloped  Potatoes.  Boil  potatoes  fifteen  minutes.  When 
cold,  slice  on  a  vegetable  sheer.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  place  a  layer 
of  potatoes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  melted  butter, 
then  another  layer  of  potatoes,  etc.  Pour  over  some  rich  cream  and 
bake     to  %  of  an  hour,  or  longer  according  to  amount  of  potatoes. 

Peeled  Sweet  Potatoes.  Put  on  to  cook  in  enough  water  to 
cover ;  when  done  drain  off  water,  mash,  season  with  butter,  salt  and 
cream,  put  into  baking  dish ;  place  rolled  cracker  and  bits  of  butter 
on  them ;  put  in  oven  and  bake  a  short  time.    Mrs.  Adam  Ringlep. 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Cocoa  Butter 


Meet  me  at  Broxam  &  Hinckley's 


55 


Macaroni  and  Cheese.  Boil  pound  macaroni  in  boiling  salt 
water  for  thirty  minutes.  Drain  through  colander,  take  I  pint  new 
milk  and  boil.  Beat  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  add  to  it  2  tablespoons  but- 
ter and  2  teacups  of  grated  cheese,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  stir- 
ring until  it  forms  a  custard.  Grease  a  baking  pan  and  alternate 
macaroni  and  custard  having  the  latter  on  top ;  brown  in  oven  and 
serve.  Mrs.  N.  B.  Butterworth. 

Creamed  Corn.  Cut  the  corn  from  half  a  dozen  ears  of  corn 
or  better  still,  scrape  it.  Mix  with  the  corn  J/2  cup  bread  crumbs, 
beat  1  egg  thoroughly  and  mix  it  with  1  tablespoon  butter,  reduced 
to  a  cream  and  teaspoon  sugar ;  add  Y>  cup  rich  milk  or  cream  and 
salt  and  pepper;  add  this  mixture  to  the  corn  and  crumbs,  mix  well 
together  and  put  into  one  large  dish  or  individual  baking  dishes.  Add 
a  layer  of  seasoned  crumbs  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Harriet  S.  Abel. 

Corn  Scallop.  Take  fresh  corn  and  cut  from  the  cob,  or  use 
canned  corn;  take  a  small  pan  and  put  in  a  layer  of  corn,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  butter,  then  a  layer  of  crushed  crackers, 
then  more  corn,  etc.,  until  the  pan  is  half  full;  then  cover  with  milk 
and  use  part  cream  if  possible ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  P.  Markland. 

Escalloped  Onions.  Slice  and  boil  1  dozen  onions  until  tender. 
Place  a  layer  in  baking  pan ;  cover  it  with  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of 
butter ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Treat  additional  layers  of  on- 
ions in  the  same  way  until  all  are  placed.  Almost  cover  with  milk. 
Bake  for  half  an  hour.  Mrs.  Fannie  Goodenow. 

Spanish  Stuffed  Onions.  Peel  large  Bermuda  or  Spanish  on- 
ions and  parboil  them  for  ten  minutes;  drain  and  let  them  get  per- 
fectly cold,  with  a  sharp  knife  dig  out  the  center  from  each  and  fill 
with  a  force  meat  of  minced  meat,  veal,  ham  or  chicken,  well  sea- 
soned and  mixed  with  1-3  as  much  fine  crumbs,  season  with  salt  and 
cayenne  and  a  little  butter,  set  the  stuffed  onions  close  together  in  a 
dish;  fill  the  interstices  with  crumbs  and  scatter  more  over  the  top. 
Pour  about  them  enough  weak  stock  to  keep  them  from  burning, 
about  one  inch  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish  will  do,  and  cook,  covered 
Yz  hour,  uncover  and  brown  lightly.  Onion  lovers  will  find  this  very 
palatable.  A.  Palmer. 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Cake  Colorings 


56 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Pure  Spices 


Sauerkraut  with  Dumplings.  Put  sauerkraut  on  to  cook  with 
spare  ribs,  cover  with  water  and  boil  about  two  hours ;  2  eggs  well 
beaten,  1  tablespoon  sweet  cream  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder  and  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  batter  as  for  fritters, 
drop  with  a  teaspoon  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.    Mrs.  J.  B.  Ellis. 

German  Cabbage.  Cut  a  two-inch  cube  of  fat  salt  pork  in  dice 
and  fry  it  slightly  in  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan,  add  1  cup  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  2  quarts  of  shredded  cabbage,  and  1  sour  apple  cut 
fine  .  Cook  one  hour  very  slowly.  When  it  is  half  done  add  y2  cup 
of  vinegar. 

Rice  Croquettes.  y2  cup  rice,  1  pint  milk,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 
3  eggs  and  a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  a 
saltspoon  salt.  Soak  rice  three  hours  in  warm  water  enough  to  cover 
it,  drain  almost  dry  and  pour  in  the  milk.  Stew  in  one  saucepan,  set 
in  another  of  hot  water  until  rice  is  very  tender,  add  sugar,  butter 
and  salt  and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Whip  eggs  to  froth  and  add  with 
pan  off  stove,  return  to  stove  and  stir  until  they  thicken  but  not  boil ; 
remove  from  fire,  add  lemon  peel ;  then  turn  into  well  greased  pans  to 
cool ;  when  cold  and  stiff  roll  into  balls,  dip  into  beaten  eggs,  then  in 
fine  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  lard.  Mrs.  A.  J.  House. 

Cheese  Souffle.  Take  dry  bread,  spread  with  butter  and  lay  in 
pudding  dish,  cut  into  squares  spread  with  grated  cheese,  a  little  red 
pepper  and  salt,  do  so  until  dish  is  filled,  then  fill  with  milk  and  stand 
one  hour ;  just  before  going  into  oven  take  2  well  beaten  eggs  and 
some  milk,  just  enough  to  cover  and  pour  over  the  top. 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Woley. 

Cheese  Souffle.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 
1  heaping  tablespoon  flour,  when  smooth  add  y2  cup  milk,  y2  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne,  cook  for  two  minutes. 
Add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  and  1  cup  of  grated  cheese  and 
set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
turn  into  buttered  dish  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes.  Serve  imme- 
diately. Mrs.  Chas.  von  Schrader. 

Boston  Baked  Beans.  3  pints  of  beans  soaked  over  night  in 
cold  water  in  which  has  been  dissolved  1  tablespoon  baking  soda ;  in 
the  morning  drain  off  the  water,  put  the  beans  in  a  stone  crock  with 
cover ;  score  y2  pound  pickled  pork,  place  in  the  crock  in  the  middle 
of  the  beans,  add  y2  cup  vinegar,  2  teaspoons  salt,  saltspoon  dry 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Flavoring  Extracts 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Birthday  Cards 


57 


mustard,  tablespoon  molasses,  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  cover  with 
cold  water,  cover  and  place  in  the  oven,  bake  until  3  p.  m.,  adding 
enough  water  to  keep  the  beans  covered ;  after  that  let  the  water  dry 
away  until  the  beans  are  quite  dry.  These  beans  may  be  kept  some 
time  and  bear  re-heating.  Mrs.  A.  B.  Bow  en. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes.  Mix  ]/2  pint  stale  bread  crumbs,  y2  cup 
finely  chopped  nuts,  1  grated  onion,  1  level  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon 
pepper  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  melted.  Cut  the  stem  end  from 
6  tomatoes  and  take  out  the  seeds  and  centers.  Stuff  the  tomatoes 
with  the  mixture  and  stand  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  little  water  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  thirty  minutes,  basting  once  or  twice. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Nitzsche. 

Succotash.  This  is  usually  made  of  green  corn  and  lima  beans, 
though  for  the  latter^  string  or  butter  beans  may  be  substituted. 
Boil  the  beans  nearly  an  hour;  while  they  are  boiling,  prepare  the 
corn,  thus :  Clean  thoroughly  from  husk  and  silk,  cut  off  the  corn 
carefully  from  the  cob  and  with  the  back  of  the  knife  scrape  the  cob 
gently.  Add  corn  to  beans  twenty  minutes  before  taking  up.  While 
boiling,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Do  not  have  too 
much  water  in  the  beans,  and  do  not  let  them  boil  dry.  A  little 
cream  added,  improves  it.  Mrs.  T.  A.  Lane,  Victor,  la. 

Parsnips.  (Nice  for  a  company  dinner.)  Add  to  each  pint  of 
boiled  and  mashed  parsnips,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  a  dash  of  red  pepper,  and  2  tablespoons  milk.  Mix  well  over 
the  fire  and  when  very  hot  add  a  well  beaten  egg.  Spread  on  dish  to 
cool.  Then  take  the  kernel  of  an  English  walnut,  almond  or  pinenut, 
and  roll  around  it  the  parsnip  pulp  until  you  have  a  good-sized  nut. 
Roll  in  egg  and  cracker  dust  and  fry  a  light  brown  in  deep  fat  that  is 
smoking  hot.    Garnish  with  cress  or  parsley. 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Matthias. 

Noodles.  1  egg,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  y2  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, y2  teaspoon  salt.  Flour  to  make  quite  stiff.  Roll  out  thin.  Let 
dry  2  or  3  hours.  Roll  up  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Drop  in  the  broth 
and  cook  a  few  minutes  or  till  done. 

Baked  Noodles.  Boil  noodles  ten  minutes  in  salted  stock  or 
broth  of  any  kind.  Drain.  Put  noodles  in  baking  dish,  sprinkle 
salt,  pepper,  and  grated  cheese  between  layers.  Pour  broth  over  all 
and  bake  one  hour.  Camilla  Stephens  Cook. 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Silver  Polish 


58 


Brcxam  &  Hinckley  for  Vanilla  Extract 


Noodles.  5  eggs,  ^egg-shell  of  water,  make  stiff  with  flour 
and  knead  as  you  do  bread;  then  make  in  five  cakes  and  roll  very 
thin,  and  dry.  Roll  up  and  cut  fine.  Let  stand  until  thoroughly  dry. 
Boil  up  in  salt  water,  throw  in  colander  and  drain  a  few  minutes. 
Melt  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  pour  over  top ;  take  a  large  piece  of 
butter  and  let  get  very  brown ;  throw  in  bread  that  has  been  cut  in 
small  dice,  and  brown  in  butter,  and  pour  all  over  the  top. 

Mrs.  Adam  Ringlep. 

Creamed  Squash.  Bake  Hubbard  Squash  in  oven ;  when  done, 
scrape  from  shell  and  place  in  granite  kettle  on  the  stove ;  add  sweet 
cream,  salt,  pepper  and  butter ;  beat  to  a  cream  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Emily  D.  Edwards. 

To  Bake  Sweet  Potatoes:  Boil  until  almost  done,  pour  off 
wrater  and  stand  them  in  a  hot  oven  about  fifteen  minutes.  Remove 
skins  and  serve.  Mrs.  Emily  D.  Edwards. 

Pot-Au-Feu.  Boil  together  slowly  2  medium  sized  carrots,  2 
turnips,  2  parsnips,  i  onion,  i  teaspoon  salt  and  a  small  piece  of 
lean  beef.  When  tender  take  out  beef  and  thicken  broth  on  vege- 
tables with  flour.    Serve  hot.  Mrs.  L.  T.  Martensen. 

Egg  Plant.  To  cook  egg  plant,  cut  in  slices  crossways,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  let  stand  15  minutes;  dip  in  pancake  batter  and  fry  in  but- 
ter until  brown.  Another  way  is  to  dip  in  egg  and  roll  in  crushed 
cracker  and  fry  in  butter. 

Indian  Shuffle.  1  cup  rice  steamed  in  3  cups  salted  milk,  1  can 
corn,  2  pimentoes  chopped,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.    Mix  and  bake  in  buttered  dish  one  half  hour. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Swigart-Lackey,  Norfolk,  Neb. 

Spanish  Rice.  Wash  %  cup  rice,  then  brown  in  hot  olive  oil 
or  lard.  When  brown  as  coffee  put  in  1  large  sliced  onion,  J/>  can 
tomatoes,  pour  over  enough  water  to  simmer  y2  hour  or  until  rice 
is  soft.    Salt  and  pepper  and  add  1  large  sweet  pepper. 

Mrs.  Edith  Harris. 

Rice  Surprise.    To  1  cup  of  cream  (whipped)  add  one  cup  of 

thoroughly  cooked  rice,  enough  cubes  of  grated  pineapple  to  flavor 
well.  Beat  these  up  thoroughly,  chill  and  serve  with  candied  or 
maraschino  cherries.  Mrs.  L.  T.  Martensen. 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Paper  Napkins 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Cocoa  Butter 


59 


Rice  and  Codfish.  Cook  rice  amount  desired,  also  codfish,  un- 
til tender,  make  white  sauce,  with  or  without  cheese,  and  pour  over 
mixture.  Can  be  set  in  oven  and  slightly  browned,  or  served  with- 
out. Mrs.  Blanche  Reynolds. 

Turkish  Rice.  Wash  i  cup  of  rice  and  put  in  top  of  double 
boiler  with  3  cups  of  strained  tomatoes.  Cook  over  fire  rapidly  for 
10  minutes,  then  place  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  tender.  Sea- 
son with  butter,  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  with  stewed 
chicken  or  lamb.  Hazel  B.  Morse. 

Celery  Sticks.  Mix  to  a  smooth  paste,  cheese,  pimento,  cream 
and  seasoning.    Place  lengthwise  on  fresh  crisp  celery. 

Marion  Jane  Kucheman. 

Stewed  Celery.  Cut  the  coarse  pieces  of  celery  and  ends  of 
stalks,  using  the  fine  leaves  also,  into  inch  pieces.  Pour  boiling  water 
over  to  nearly  cover.  Boil  until  tender,  from  twenty  to  thirty  min- 
utes. Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  thicken  with  2  table- 
spoons butter,  y2  tablespoon  flour,  1  cup  milk. 

Mrs.  0.  C.  Kucheman. 

Dutch  Cheese.  2  or  more  quarts  clabber  milk,  heat  over  a  slow 
fire  until  warmed  through  sufficient  to  separate  thoroughly  curd 
from  whey.  Strain  through  thin  gauze  or  cheese  cloth.  Add  sea- 
soning while  still  warm,  salt,  butter  or  sweet  cream  to  taste. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Richardson. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese.  T/2  package  macaroni  broken,  y2  lb. 
cheese.  Cook  macaroni  until  tender,  make  white  sauce,  two  table- 
spoons flour,  two  tablespoons  butter,  cup  sweet  milk,  and  cheese  cut 
fine,  cook  and  pour  over  macaroni.  Season  to  taste.  This  amount 
will  serve  eight.  Mrs.  Blanche  Reynolds. 

Mushrooms  and  Cheese.  Chop  fine  l/2  can  of  mushrooms,  add 
3  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs,  1  egg,  y2  cup  grated  cheese  and  y2 
cup  water.    Place  in  a  small  mould  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Prussia. 

Glazed  Sweet  Potato.  Wash  sweet  potatoes  and  boil  for  15 
minutes  in  salted  water  with  skins  on.  Drain,  remove  skins,  and  cut 
in  halves  lengthwise  and  place  in  buttered  pan.  Make  a  syrup  by 
boiling  for  3  minutes  y2  cupful  of  sugar  and  4  tablespoons  of  water. 
Add  1  tablespoon  butter.    Brush  potatoes  with  syrup  and  bake  till 


Meet  me  at  Broxam  &  Hinckley's 


60 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


brown,  basting  with  the  rest  of  the  syrup.  Keep  syrup  on  top  of 
potatoes  as  much  as  possible.  Elisabeth  Kaler. 

Steamed  Cauliflower  with  White  Sauce.  Steam  a  cauliflower 
head  until  tender.  Place  in  baking  dish  and  pour  over  it  the  white 
sauce.  Grate  cheese  over  this  and  place  in  oven  until  cheese  melts. 
White  Sauce :  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  large  cup 
milk  or  cream.  Rub  butter  and  flour  smooth  in  a  saucepan  over  fire, 
and  add  boiling  milk  or  cream  gradually,  stirring  until  smooth.  Sea- 
son with  salt.  Mrs.  Ed.  Harris. 

Pittsburgh  Potatoes.  1  qt.  of  potatoes,  cut  in  cubes,  1  small 
chopped  onion,  ]/2  can  of  pimentoes,  drained  and  cut  in  thin  strips. 
Put  Potatoes  and  onion  in  stewpan,  pour  over  boiling  salted  water 
to  cover.  Bring  to  boiling  point  and  let  boil  5  minutes.  Add  pimen- 
toes, again  bring  to  boiling  point  and  boil  5  minutes,  then  drain  and 
put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish. 

Sauce :  lb.  of  soft  grated  cheese,  %  teaspoon  salt,  Y%  tea- 
spoon pepper,  2  cups  of  milk,  4  tablespoons  butter,  4  tablespoons 
flour.  Melt  butter  and  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended,  then  pour 
on  gradually  2  cups  of  milk,  while  stirring  constantly.  Bring  to 
boiling  point  and  add  cheese,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  sauce  over  po- 
tatoes and  bake  until  light  brown.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Walker. 

Baked  Lima  Beans.  Soak  2  cups  of  lima  beans  over  night  in 
water  to  more  than  cover  them.  In  morning  drain  and  put  beans  in 
bean  pot  and  half  fill  with  water.  Cut  2  slices  of  bacon  in  small 
pieces  and  fry  out.  Cut  1  onion  in  small  pieces,  add  1-3  cup  finely 
cut  carrot,  and  fry  in  the  fat  until  brown.  Put  meat  and  vegetables 
in  with  beans,  cover,  and  bake  3  hours.  Mrs.  Edith  Harris. 

Potato  Puff.  Peel  and  boil  about  6  potatoes.  When  soft  and 
dry,  add  a  little  salt  and  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  beat  till  white 
and  creamy,  add  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten  and  2  tablespoons  of 
cream.  About  twenty  minutes  before  potato  is  wanted  whip  whites 
of  two  eggs  till  firm,  mix  lightly  with  potato,  turn  into  deep  dish  and 
bake  till  brown.    This  makes  a  light,  puffy  and  delicious  dish. 

Mrs.  F.  R.  Waters. 

Potato  Croquettes.  To  1  cup  of  any  kind  of  meat  chopped 
fine  add  a  small  onion  chopped  fine,  1  y2  mashed  potato,  3  tablespoons 
cream,  1  of  cracker  crumbs,  1  well  beaten  egg ;  salt  and  pepper  and 
beat  well,  make  into  balls  by  flouring  them  and  fry  in  very  little  lard. 

Mrs.  Leo  Shattuck. 


Petroleum  Carbon,  the  Ashless  Fuel — Green  Bay  Lumber  Co. 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


61 


Escalloped  Corn.  Grease  baking  dish  well.  Put  in  corn,  sea- 
son and  then  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs.  Alternate  till  dish  is  full. 
Wet  well  with  milk  and  add  plenty  of  butter.  One  can  of  corn 
makes  enough  for  five  or  six  persons. 

Onions.  Cut  round  onion  slices  }4  incn  thick,  separate  in 
rings,  soak  in  salt  water  for  15  minutes,  dip  in  batter  as  for  frit- 
ters.  Fry  in  deep  fat.   Fine  with  meat  course. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Anderson. 

Spaghetti.  y2  package  spaghetti.  (Don't  wash.)  Have  the 
water  boiling  hot,  with  small  piece  bacon  or  beef.  Put  in  spaghetti 
and  boil  for  25  or  30  minutes,  with  pepper  and  salt  to  season.  Put 
in  frying  pan  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  add  *4  ounce  garlic 
chopped  fine,  fry  3  minutes,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  boiled  spaghetti, 
a  layer  of  cheese,  a  layer  of  cracker  dust  and  tomatoes,  continue  pro- 
cess until  pan  is  full.  Fry  for  15  or  20  minutes,  constantly  stirring. 
Add  y2  pint  cream,  to  be  poured  over,  and  stirred  in  while  frying. 
Don't  let  spaghetti  get  cold  during  process.  Ingredients :  y  pound 
cheese,  grated,  y2  package  spaghetti,  y  ounce  garlic,  chopped  fine, 
y$  ounce  cracker  dust,  y2  pint  tomatoes,  y2  pint  cream,  piece  of  but- 
ter size  of  a  duck  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Rev.  Arthur  Lewis. 

Macaroni  Loaf.  %  cup  macaroni,  cooked  in  boiling  salt  water 
20  minutes,  1  cup  cream  and  milk,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  Y%  cup  butter, 
1  tablespoon  red  or  green  pepper,  chopped  fine,  Va  cup  ham,  cooked 
and  chopped,  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  onion 
juice,  or  not,  as  preferred.  Scald  the  cream,  add  other  ingredients, 
line  dish  with  buttered  paper,  bake  ?4  of  an  hour.  Set  pan  in  dish  of 
hot  water  to  bake.  Mrs.  O.  W.  Joiner. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes.  Wipe  and  remove  skin,  cut  slice  from  stem 
ends  of  8  small  tomatoes.  Scoop  out  seeds  and  some  pulp,  sprinkle 
inside  with  salt,  invert  and  let  stand  y2  hour.  Cook  2^  tablespoons 
butter,  y2  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  2  minutes,  stir  con- 
stantly. Add  1  cup  soft  stale  bread  crumbs,  y2  cup  tomato  pulp,  salt 
and  pepper.  Cook  5  minutes,  add  1  egg  slightly  beaten,  cook  1  min- 
ute. Refill  tomatoes  with  mixture,  put  in  buttered  pan,  sprinkle 
with  buttered  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  20  minutes. 

Mary  E.  Joiner. 


Garments  of  Quality  "Sunshine  or  Stylecraft,"  at  Lamey's 


62 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Baked  Tomatoes.  Cut  a  thin  slice  from  blossom  end  of  12 
smooth  ripe  tomatoes.  Remove  pulp.  1  small  solid  head  of  cab- 
bags  and  1  medium  sized  onion  chopped  fine,  add  1  cup  of  bread 
crumbs  and  pulp  of  tomatoes.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  sugar, 
1  teacup  of  sweet  cream.  Mix  well  together,  fill  tomatoes,  put  the 
slices  on  top,  lay  them  stem  down  in  a  buttered  baking  dish.  A  small 
lump  of  butter  on  each  to  prevent  burning.  Pour  in  a  very  little 
water.  Bake  y2  hour  or  until  thoroughly  done.  Serve  on  hot  but- 
tered toast  cut  in  rounds. 

Corn  Oysters.  1  pt.  grated  corn,  1  egg,  1  cup  milk  or  cream, 
1  cup  flour,  y2  teaspoon  baking  powder,  pinch  salt,  and  bake  on 
griddle.  Mrs.  Jucksch. 

Corn  Oysters.  To  1  quart  of  grated  corn,  add  3  eggs  and  4 
grated  crackers,  beat  well  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Have 
ready  in  skillet  butter  and  lard  in  equal  portions,  hot;  drop  in  little 
cakes  with  teaspoon;  when  brown  turn  and  fry  on  the  other  side. 
Beat  eggs  separately,  adding  whites  last.       Mrs.  Adam  Ringlep. 


Visit  Martensen's  Ladies'  Ready-to-Wear  Department 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


65 


SALADS. 


"My  salad  days, 
When  I  was  green  in  judgment." 

— Shakespeare. 

Salad  Dressing  that  will  keep  a  month  or  more.  Yolks  of  12 
eggs,  (use  whites  for  angel  food),  scant  pint  of  vinegar,  2  heaping 
tablespoons  Coleman's  mustard,  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  cup  sugar,  1 
level  teaspoon  white  pepper,  1  teaspoon  celery  salt,  a  pinch  of  cay- 
enne pepper,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  cup  rich  sour  cream;  put  all  the 
ingredients  together  except  the  eggs,  mustard  and  cream  and  boil 
until  sugar  is  dissolved ;  beat  eggs,  add  mustard  and  flour  wet  with  a 
little  water,  and  the  cream,  beat  thoroughly  and  put  in  double  boiler 
with  the  other  ingredients  and  boil  until  it  thickens,  do  not  boil  too 
long  as  this  causes  the  vinegar  to  separate ;  when  making  salad  mix 
four  or  five  tablespoons  of  dressing  with  a  half  cup  of  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  O.  C.  Kucheman. 

Olive  Oil  Mayonnaise.  1  cup  oil,  yolk  of  I  egg,  teaspoon  of 
salt,  %  teaspoon  of  mustard  (ground),  }4  teaspoon  of  paprika,  1 
tablespoon  of  vinegar,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  beat  slowly  with 
Dover  egg  beater,  dropping  the  oil  in  a  drop  at  a  time,  when  it  be- 
gins to  thicken  drop  oil  more  rapidly,  thin  with  whipped  cream  as 
needed ;  without  cream  it  will  keep  for  some  time. 

Marion  Kucheman. 

French  Dressing.  Equal  parts  of  melted  butter  and  lemon 
juice,  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Lena  A.  S.  Blessing. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing.  2  eggs,  y2  cup  sugar,  yA  teaspoon  salt, 
1  tablespoon  flour,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  3A  cup  vinegar.  Beat  eggs, 
add  sugar,  salt,  mustard  and  flour.  Heat  vinegar  and  pour  over  the 
foregoing  ingredients.  Put  into  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  but- 
ter size  of  a  walnut,  add  cream  well  beaten. 

Mrs.  Carl  E.  Collings,  Des  Moines,  la. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing.  4  tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  corn 
starch,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon  salt,  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper, 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  y2  cup  vinegar,  y2  cup  water.    Mix  dry  ingredients 

F.  S.  Haight,  Confectionery  and  Bakery. 

5 


66 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


thoroughly,  add  to  the  vinegar  and  water  and  cook  until  thick.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  add  yolks  of  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  with 
a  little  milk  and  a  small  lump  of  butter. 

Mrs.  Oz^en  Keegan,  Chicago,  111. 
Thousand  Island  Salad  Dressing.  V2  cup  olive  oil,  y2  cup 
lemon  juice,  y2  cup  orange  juice,  y2  teaspoon  onion  (grated),  i 
tablespoon  parsley  (chopped),  8  olives,  thinly  sliced,  y2  teaspoon 
salt,  J4  teaspoon  paprika,  y±  teaspoon  mustard,  i  teaspoon  Worces- 
tershire sauce.  Place  all  ingredients  in  pint  jar,  cover  and  shake 
until  slightly  thickened.    Chill  and  shake  just  before  using. 

Marion  Jane  Kucheinan. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing.  i  cup  pineapple  juice,  3  teaspoons  su- 
gar, juice  y2  lemon,  yolk  of  1  egg,  2  teaspoons  cornstarch,  large 
lump  of  butter,  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  When  cold,  add 
y2  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Oranges,  pineapple,  marshmallows  and 
nuts  cut  in  small  pieces  and  mixed  with  the  dressing,  makes  a  very 
good  fruit  salad. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing.  1  cup  weak  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  mus- 
tard, y>  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  pepper,  2  tablespoons  flour,  y2 
cup  sugar,  few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper,  4  tablespoons  olive  oil  or 
butter,  2  eggs,  1  cup  cream.  Mix  dry  ingredients.  Add  eggs  and 
beat  well.  Heat  vinegar  to  boiling  point  and  pour  slowly  over  the 
above  mixture  while  stirring.  Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  thickened.  Add  olive  oil  or  butter.  Thin  with  sweet 
or  sour  cream.  Jessie  Marie  Webster. 

Salad  Dressing.  2  eggs  well  beaten,  2-3  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons 
flour,  1  saltspoon  pepper.  Mix  well  together  and  add  Va  cup  vine- 
gar.   Cook  in  double  boiler.   When  cool  add  1  pint  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  McQuozim. 

Salad  Dressing.  2  eggs  well  beaten,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  y> 
cup  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  prepared  mustard,  butter  size  of  small 
egg,  1  teaspoon  flour,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  J4  teaspoon  of  celery 
seed.  Boil  this  until  as  thick  as  cream.  When  cold  thin  with  cup 
of  sweet  cream.    ( Whipped  is  best.)         Mrs.  L.  T.  Martensen. 

Small  Salad  Dressing.  y2  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour,  2  eggs 
or  4  yolks,  lump  butter  size  of  egg,  y2  teaspoon  mustard,  y2  cup 
vinegar,  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  all  together,  stir  constantly 
over  slow  fire  till  thick  and  creamy.  Mrs.  Harry  Joiner. 


The  Hoover  Suction  Sweeper  at  Martensen's 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


67 


Salad  Dressing.  4  eggs  beaten  well,  2-3  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
mustard,  1  small  teaspoon  salt,  1  small  teaspoon  pepper,  1  cup  vine- 
gar, add  last  and  boil  until  thick,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  cream 
when  using.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Tilton. 

Potato  Salad  Dressing.  y2  cup  vinegar,  3  eggs,  6  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  ground  mustard,  y> 
teaspoon  celery  salt.  Put  ingredients  together  and  let  boil  until  it 
thickens,  when  nearly  cool  add  1  cup  cream  sweet  or  sour,  and  2 
good  sized  onions  sliced  fine.  Mrs.  H.  J.  Nieland. 

Cherry  Salad.  Take  nice  large  ripe  cherries,  remove  pits 
and  put  filberts  in  their  place.  Pile  like  cannon  balls  on  lettuce  leaves 
and  serve  with  salad  dressing. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Cravens,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Chicken  Salad.  (French) — 1  chicken  well  boiled  with  a  little 
salt  in  the  water.  Cook  1  carrot  in  stock  at  same  time;  cut  the 
chicken  in  dice,  not  too  fine;  use  y2  as  much  chopped  celery  as 
chicken ;  mix  thoroughly ;  line  salad  dish  with  lettuce  leaves  and  put 
mixture  in ;  cut  carrot  in  dice  and  sprinkle  over  top ;  also  a  tablespoon 
each  of  cooked  French  peas  and  capers.  Set  on  ice  until  ready  to 
serve.   Then  pour  over  the  whole,  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mrs.  M.  Rice. 

Cold  Slaw  With  Cream.  For  y>  head  of  cabbage  chopped 
fine,  take  y2  cup  sweet  cream,  half  as  much  vinegar,  with  a  table- 
spoon of  sugar  in  it,  and  mix  with  the  cream,  having  salted  and  pep- 
pered the  cabbage,  pour  over  the  mixtures  when  ready  to  serve. 

A  Pretty  Cucumber  Salad.  Pare  and  halve  lengthwise  enough 
medium  sized  cucumbers  to  serve  the  number  of  guests  desired. 
Across  each  half  make  deep  cuts  from  end  to  end  about  one-half  inch 
apart.  Insert  in  these  cuts  thin  slices  of  small  red  radishes.  Put  on 
ice  and  when  ready  to  serve  lay  on  a  lettuce  leaf,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  drop  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  at  the  side. 

Mrs.  Florence  Reynolds  Price,  Chicago,  111. 

Fruit  Salad.  A  delicious  confection  to  be  served  in  tall  sherbet 
glasses.  White  grapes,  maraschino  cherries,  small  bits  of  orange, 
shreds  of  pineapple.  Soak  all  in  maraschino.  Place  on  ice,  arrang- 
ing each  glass  in  afternoon  so  that  it  will  be  frosted,  then  heap  with 
whipped  cream  and  put  a  cherry  on  top.   A  London  recipe. 

Mrs.  Sophia  Stezvart  Clark. 


See  Mann  the  Jeweler  for  Cut  Glass  and  China 


68 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Favorite  Salad.    Cut  tomatoes  in  half,  take  out  a  little  of  the 

inside,  put  one  half  of  tomato  on  lettuce,  then  fill  and  heap  with  cot- 
tage cheese  prepared  with  cream,  a  little  grated  onion  and  parsley, 
serve  with  mayonnaise.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Hughes,  Beach,  X.  D. 

German  Potato  Salad.  2  cups  boiled  potatoes  (cut  in  y2  in. 
cubes),  2  slices  of  bacon  (cut  in  small  pieces),  2  tablespoons  chopped 
onion,  2  tablespoons  bacon  fat,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  tablespoon 
salt,  y2  tablespoon  pepper.  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley.  Cook, 
drain  and  cool  potatoes.  Add  vinegar,  salt,  pepper  and  onion  to 
diced  potatoes  and  let  stand  y2  hour  to  season.  Fry  bacon  and  add 
2  tablespoons  of  fat  to  mixture.   Add  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

Myrl  Ristine. 

Jell-O  Relish.     Dissolve  1  package  lemon  Jell-O  in  a  pint  of 

boiling  water.  When  it  begins  to  thicken,  add  y2  can  pimentoes,  2 
tablespoons  vinegar,  y2  cup  chopped  celery,  y±  cup  chopped  pickle, 
y2  cup  chopped  nuts.   Delicious  with  turkey  or  chicken. 

Mrs.  Stephen  Palmer. 

Potato  Salad  Dressing.    3  eggs,  y2  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  vinegar, 

1 J/2  cup  sour  cream,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch.  Boil  until  thick.  When 
wanted  for  use  add :  1  onion  chopped  fine,  2  teaspons  mustard  seed, 
1  teaspoon  celery  seed.  Salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste.  Garnish  with 
parsley,  celery  seed,  sliced  boiled  eggs. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Staman,  Elwood,  la. 

Lemon  Cream  Salad.  3  egg  yolks,  add  slowly :  1  tea  cup  su- 
gar, 2  teaspoons  flour,  juice  of  2  lemons,  1  tablespoon  butter,  y2  cup 
boiling  water,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Thicken  in  double  boiler. 
When  cool  add  y2  cup  cream,  whipped,  pour  over  following  com- 
bination, 1  part  apple  (pealed  and  diced),  4  bananas  sliced,  6  slices 
pineapple  (diced.)  When  ready  to  use  pour  over  fruit  juice  of  1 
lemon,  then  add  dressing.       Glennett  K.  MacNab,  Beach,  N.  D. 

Peach  Nest  Salad.  Pare  and  divide  in  halves  large  ripe 
peaches.  Remove  the  stone  and  fill  the  hollow  with  chopped  English 
walnuts.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Top  with  a  dash 
of  grated  cheese.  Mrs.  Agnes  Simpson. 

P.  E.  O.  Salad.  2  cans  pineapple,  sliced ;  2  cups  maraschino 
cherries,  sliced,  3  sour  cucumber  pickles,  soaked  1  hour ;  3  bunches 
of  grapes,  (white),  2  ten  cent  bottles  stuffed  olives,  the  choice  part 


American  Lady  Corsets  at  Martensen's 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


69 


of  6  bunches  of  celery.  Any  salad  dressing.  Add  whipped  cream 
before  serving.    This  will  make  enough  salad  for  forty  people. 

Chapter  B.  G.,  DeWitt,  Iowa. 

Peach  Salad.  Take  halves  of  peaches,  either  canned  or  fresh. 
Roll  in  chopped  nuts.  Place  on  lettuce  leaves  and  fill  the  center  with 
cherries,  taking  the  pits  out  and  placing  filberts  in  their  places.  Put 
slices  of  banana  around  the  peaches  and  serve  with  salad  dressing. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Cravens,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Wilted  Lettuce.  Prepare  carefully  and  cut  3  or  4  times  across. 
Fry  small  piece  fat  ham  till  brown  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  When 
very  hot,  add  cup  vinegar  and  pour  over  lettuce.  Mix  well  with 
fork,  arrange  in  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  sliced,  hard  boiled 
eggs  dusted  with  paprika.  A  bit  of  salt  may  be  needed  in  dressing. 

Hattie  Anderson,  Elwood,  Iowa. 

Perfection  Salad.  y2  package  Knox's  gelatine,  y2  cup  cold 
water,  J/2  cup  vinegar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  y2  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
2  cups  celery  (cut  in  small  pieces),  1  cup  finely  shredded  cabbage,  y 
can  sweet  red  peppers  finely  cut,  1  pt.  boiling  water.  Soak  gelatine 
in  cold  water  2  minutes,  add  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  boiling  water,  su- 
gar and  salt.  Strain  and  when  beginning  to  set  add  remaining  in- 
gredients. Turn  into  mold  and  chill.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
mayonnaise  dressing  or  cut  in  dice  and  serve  in  cases  made  of  red 
and  green  peppers.  Mrs.  F.  IV.  Myatt. 

Cauliflower  Salad.  Place  cauliflower,  head  down,  in  cold, 
salted  water.  Let  stand  for  one  hour  to  draw  out  the  slugs  or  insects. 
Cook  in  boiling,  salted  water,  head  up  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes 
according  to  age  or  freshness.  When  tender  separate  the  flowerets, 
cool,  marinate  with  one  measure  of  French  dressing  and  place  on  ice 
to  chill.  Arrange  in  a  bowl  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with 
French  or  Mayonnaise  dressing.  Mrs.  0.  C.  Kncheman. 

Mock  Chicken  Salad.  1  can  Tuna  fish,  3  stalks  celery,  1  head 
lettuce.  Chop  the  fish  in  small  pieces,  also  the  celery,  and  mix  to- 
gether. Make  in  small  mounds  and  put  on  lettuce  leaves,  pour 
mayonnaise  dressing  over  and  garnish  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  egg. 

Salad.  2  cups  cooked  elbow  macaroni,  y2  cup  celery  cut  in 
small  pieces,  y2  can  pimento  peppers,  1  small  can  salmon.  Cover 
with  following  dressing.   Cook  in  double  boiler :  1  egg,  1  tablespoon 


Cook  on  a  Monarch  Malleable  Range — See  Trout  and  Matthias 


70 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


butter,  i  tablespoon  flour,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  dry  mus- 
tard, 1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  milk  (sweet).  Stir  and  add  y2 
cup  vinegar.   When  cool  add  y2  cup  sour  cream. 

Mrs.  Gordon  Kingsley. 

Salad.  1  pt.  or  more  sweet  cucumber  pickles,  thinly  sliced,  1 
envelope,  (y2  Pkg. )  Plymouth  Rock  gelatine  dissolved  in  y2  pt. 
cold  water,  1  cup  sugar,  1  pt.  hot  water,  1  cup  nut  meats,  J/2  can  pi- 
mentoes,  chopped,  juice  of  one  lemon,  white  grapes,  or  1  can  of 
white  cherries,  chill  and  serve.  Mrs.  Lon  Donielson. 

Salmon  Salad.  1  can  salmon,  1  cup  shredded  cabbage,  1  cup 
celery,  cut  fine,  1  bottle  olives  (stuffed).  Mix  together  and  serve 
with  salad  dressing,  and  juice  of  half  lemon. 

Mrs.  Blanche  Reynolds. 

Salmon  Salad.  1  can  best  grade  salmon,  remove  skin  and 
bones  and  break  in  small  pieces,  1  small  onion  chopped  very  fine  (or 
1  bottle  of  tiny  onions),  2  or  3  stalks  celery,  chopped  fine,  pinch 
paprika,  little  black  pepper  and  large  pinch  salt,  small  J/2  cup  vinegar 
and  juice  of  2  lemons.  Mrs.  Elmer  Crane. 

Shrimp  and  Macaroni  Salad.  Boil  1  cup  short  length  maca- 
roni in  salted  water  until  tender.  Then  place  in  colander  and  pour 
cold  water  through  to  blanch  and  separate  it.  To  this  add  2  stalks 
chopped  celery  and  1  large  can  shrimp  and  mix  with  mayonnaise 
dressing.   Macaroni  makes  a  good  foundation  for  all  fish  salads. 

Mrs.  Edith  Harris. 

Tomato  Salad.  Take  large  smooth  tomatoes,  cut  in  half  cross 
ways,  then  cut  down  like  you  would  quarter  an  orange.  Fill  the 
center  with  celery  cut  up  fine,  put  a  spoonful  of  salad  dressing  on 
top  and  sprinkle  with  nuts.  Garnish  with  a  row  of  white  grapes 
around  outside.   Serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Mrs.  True  Ripple. 


The  Latest  in  the  Millinery  Lin 


Martensen's 


I 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


73 


PUDDINGS. 


"The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating." 

Apple  Pudding.  Cook  until  tender  enough  apples  to  make  i  ^2 
pints;  sweeten  and  flavor  with  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Whip  into  it  1 
well  beaten  egg  and  put  into  a  pudding  pan.  Cover  with  a  thick 
short-cake  dough  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce  or  sugar  and  cream.  Hard  Sauce — Cream  together 
1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  cup  pulverized  sugar  and  the  white 
of  1  egg.  Flavor  with  grated  zest  of  */2  a  lemon.  Mold.  Place  on 
ice  an  hour  before  serving.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Nitzsche. 

Apple  Porcupines.  Peel  and  core  the  apples  and  steam  in  a 
rich  syrup  until  tender.  Stick  the  surface  with  halved  pecans,  fill  the 
centers  with  sugar,  butter  and  spice.  Brown  in  a  quick  oven.  De- 
licious served  with  whipped  cream. 

Baked  Apples.  Pare  them  very  smoothly,  taking  off  the  peel 
as  thin  as  possible,  then  carefully  remove  the  cores.  Put  a  short 
stick  of  cinnamon  in  place  of  each  core.  Put  the  apples  into  a  square 
deep  pan,  allow  y2  cup  water  and  2  even  tablespoons  sugar  to  each 
apple,  if  they  are  large.  Sprinkle  liberally  with  nutmeg,  and  put  in 
thin  slips  of  lemon  peel  and  a  few  blades  of  mace.  Bake  slowly  un- 
til quite  done.  The  syrup  will  be  almost  like  jelly,  and  the  flavor  de- 
licious. Paring  the  apples  frees  the  juice  and  makes  them  more  di- 
gestible. 

Baked  Apple  Dumpling.  Peel  and  core  6  apples,  to  1  pint  flour 
add  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  *4  CUP  butter,  rub  well  together, 
using  milk  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  and  cut  in  5  or 
6  squares,  fill  with  apples  and  twist  together.  Butter  a  deep  baking 
dish,  put  dumplings  in,  add  1  cup  sugar,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and 
small  pieces  of  butter.  Cover  with  boiling  water  which  makes  the 
dressing.    Bake  until  brown.  Mrs.  McQuozvn. 


Purest  Spices,  Flavors,  and  Fruit  Colors — Staack  &  Luckiesh 


74 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Apple  Pudding.  Take  3  or  4  ripe  apples,  slice  thin,  place  in 
pan.  Make  a  batter  of  1  cup  sweet  milk,  a  little  sugar,  pinch  of  salt, 
1  y2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Pour  batter  over  apples, 
bake  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  M.  D.  McCarthy. 

Baked  Bananas.  Put  into  a  bowl  3  tablespoons  butter,  6  table- 
spoons sugar  and  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  Set  the  bowl  into  a  pan 
of  hot  water  so  as  to  melt  the  butter.  Peel  6  bananas  and  lay  them 
in  a  baking  pan.  The  bananas  must  not  touch  each  other.  Baste 
the  fruit  with  the  mixture  in  the  bowl  and  bake  for  y>  hour. 

Banana  Pudding.  1  scant  cup  sugar,  l/2  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  y2 
cup  milk,  (or  water)  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flour  for  thin  bat- 
ter, bake  in  two  deep  tins ;  slice  2  bananas,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
spread  between  the  layers  while  hot.    Serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Alf.  Butterworth. 

Banana  Trifle.  1  quart  sweet  milk,  3  eggs,  y2  cup  sugar,  scald 
all  to  a  soft  custard ;  when  cool  flavor  with  vanilla.  Have  ready  a 
deep  dish  with  6  bananas  peeled  and  sliced  thin  and  a  few  slices  of 
plain  cake ;  pour  the  above  over  this  and  serve  cold. 

Mrs.  Max  L.  Wright. 

Chocolate  Bread  Pudding.  Soak  1  cup  bread  crumbs  in  1  pint 
milk,  add  1  heaping  tablespoon  cocoa  stirred  in  cup  sugar,  1 
beaten  egg,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Pour  in  pudding  dish  and  bake  until 
firm.    Serve  either  hot  or  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Chocolate  Pudding.  1  quart  sweet  milk,  l/2  cup  sugar,  1  bar 
of  chocolate,  2y2  tablespoons  corn  starch  dissolved  in  cold  milk, 
beat  when  you  put  it  in  to  avoid  lumps.  When  cool  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Ida  Simpson. 

Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding.  Melt  1  y>  squares  of  chocolate 
over  steam,  add  y>  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  milk,  an  egg  well  beaten,  a  cup 
flour  and  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon melted  butter.  Steam  1  y2  hours.  Serve  with  whipped  cream 
or  any  kind  of  sweet  sauce.  Ida  Hinman  Black. 

Chocolate  Floating  Island.  1  quart  milk,  3  eggs,  2  squares 
chocolate,  2  level  tablespoons  cornstarch,  4  tablespoons  sugar.  Sepa- 
rate eggs  and  beat  separately  and  proceed  as  with  custard. 

Mrs.  Lee  Reinheimer. 


Richelieu  Brand  Pure  Food  Products — J.  A.  Wright  &  Son 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


75 


Chocolate  Pudding.  i  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  \y2  cups 
flour,  Ya  cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  egg,  2  squares 
melted  chocolate.  Steam  iy2  hours  without  lifting  cover.  Sauce: 
heaping  tablespoon  corn  starch,  1  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  vinegar, 
2  cups  boiling  water.    Boil  until  thickens.    Any  flavor. 

Mrs.  Hat  tie  Harrison. 

Chocolate  Pudding.  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  beaten  together,  1 
cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  square  chocolate  grated  fine,  steam  2  hours.  Sauce  for 
same :  1  cup  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  flour,  y2  square  chocolate, 
add  water  enough  to  mix  until  it  is  like  cream.   Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Maltas. 

Chocolate  Fruit  Pudding.  1  pint  rich  milk,  ca^e  grated 
chocolate,  1  scant  teacup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  milk,  1  teaspoon  butter.  Boil  and  stir  mixture  until  thick, 
then  let  cool  and  add  y>  pint  of  whipped  cream,  a  teacup  of  chopped 
seeded  raisins,  citron,  nuts  and  candied  orange  peel.  Put  the  pud- 
ding in  a  tin  pail  or  freezer  and  pack  in  crushed  ice  and  salt  for  a 
couple  of  hours  to  thoroughly  chill.  Delicious. 

Mrs.  Mary  Trout  Godfrey. 

Carrot  Pudding.  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  grated  raw 
carrot,  1  cup  grated  raw  potato,  1  y2  cup  flour  y2  cup  raisins,  2  eggs, 
1  teaspoon  soda,  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  cloves,  y2  tea- 
spoon nutmeg.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  eggs.  Beat  thoroughly. 
Add  grated  vegetables  and  soda.  Mix  dry  ingredients  and  fruit, 
add  gradually  to  first  mixture,  pour  into  buttered  moulds  and  steam 
three  hours.  Serve  with  the  following  sauce  :  Sauce  :  2  eggs,  1  cup 
powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  yolks  well  and  add  y2 
of  the  sugar.  Beat  whites  and  add  remaining  sugar.  Combine  mix- 
tures and  add  vanilla.  Mrs.  F.  W.  Wray. 

Charlotte  Russe.  Line  a  dish  with  sponge  cake.  Prepare  1 
pint  of  thick  sweet  cream,  *4  D0X  gelatine,  y2  teacup  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  pinch  salt.  Soak  gelatine  in  1-3  cup  water  and  heat 
gradually.  Put  sugar,  cream  and  vanilla  in  cake  bowl,  beat  cream 
to  stiff  froth,  then  add  gelatine  and  beat  slightly.  Pour  it  in  the 
dish  lined  with  the  cake  and  set  in  cold  place. 

Mrs.  Pierce  Mitchell. 


Before  you  build  see  The  Hand-Fischer  Lumber  Co. 


76 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Cherry  Puffs.  2-3  cup  milk  or  water,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  sugar, 
butter  size  of  egg,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.  Drain  the  juice  from  1  pint  of  cherries  and  add.  Pud- 
ding Sauce :  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1 
cup  water  and  cherry  juice.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Dunham. 

Cherry  Pudding.  Take  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  egg,  stir  this 
thoroughly,  then  add  1  cup  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  flour, 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  1  cup  of  cherries.   Fresh  cherries  are  better. 

Miss  Laura  Edson. 

Crumb  Pudding.  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  cup  hot 
water,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 
2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  raisins,  1  teaspon  soda  sifted  with  1 
cup  flour,  1  beaten  egg  added  last.  Steam  iy2  hours.  Serve  with 
lemon  sauce  or  whipped  cream.  Venora  Tubbs. 

Cottage  Pudding,  %  cup  butter,  2-3  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1  cup 
milk  or  water,  2)4  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  y2  tea- 
spoon salt.  Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  egg  well 
beaten ;  mix  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt ;  add  alternately 
with  milk  to  first  mixture ;  turn  into  buttered  cake  pan ;  bake  35  min- 
utes.  Serve  with  lemon  or  vanilla  sauce.  Ella  Mitchell. 

Cranberry  Pudding.  1  quart  of  cranberries,  1  large  cup  mo- 
lasses, 1  teaspoon  soda,  salt  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Put  in 
a  pan  and  set  in  steamer  and  steam  for  3  hours.  Serve  with  any  de- 
sirable sauce.  Mrs.  G.  L.  Johnson. 

Six  Cup  Pudding.  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  bread 
crumbs,  1  cup  figs  chopped  fine,  1  cup  suet,  1  cup  milk,  y2  teaspoon 
soda  or  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Steam  three  hours  and  serve  with 
sour  sauce.  Miss  Elsie  Taubman. 

Date  Souffle.  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  dates,  1  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder  (scant),  1  cup  chopped  English  walnuts,  1  tablespoon 
flavor,  y2  cup  bread  crumbs.  Bake  20  minutes.  Serve  with  or  with- 
out sauce.  Miss  Lena  Sears. 

Date  Pudding.  1  scant  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon 
soda  in  milk,  2  full  cups  flour,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  teaspoon  cin- 
namon, y2  teaspoon  cloves,  1  lb.  dates  cut  fine.    Steam  2  hours. 

Mrs.  F.  J.  Swift. 


"Treadeasy"  Shoe  for  Women  at  Lovelee's  Corner  Shoe  Store 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


77 


Date  Pudding,  i  cup  powdered  sugar,  6  eggs,  J4  CUP  grated 
bread  crumbs,  i  cup  dates,  i  cup  walnut  meats,  i  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  i  teaspoon  almond  extract.  Chop  nuts  and  dates,  beat  egg 
yolks  thick  and  add  sugar,  add  crumbs,  baking  powder,  nuts  and 
dates,  add  extract  and  fold  in  the  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  two 
pans.    Crumble  coarsely  and  serve  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Edzv.  Luckiesh. 

Date  Pudding,  i  lb.  English  walnuts  (minced,  not  ground), 
y2  lb.  dates  (cut  fine),  2  cups  sugar,  6  eggs  beaten  separately,  7 
tablespoons  powdered  cracker  crumbs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
mixed  with  ingredients.  Bake  in  slow  oven  1  hour.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream.    (Serves  16  person.)  Mrs.  F.  W .  Myatt. 

Date  Custard.  Crumb  J4  pound  macaroons,  cut  up  y2  pound 
dates  in  rather  fine  pieces,  make  custard  of  2  eggs,  2  cups  milk,  % 
cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  2  level  tablespoons  cornstarch. 
Butter  pudding  dish,  put  in  layer  of  crumbs,  then  layer  of  dates,  and 
so  on  till  all  has  been  used.  Pour  custard  over  all  and  bake  in  slow 
oven  until  custard  is  set.   Serve  portions  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Geo.  L.  Mitchell. 

Date  Pudding.  Chop  fine  1  cup  dates,  1  cup  walnuts.  Sift 
together  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  flour.  Add  to  this  nuts,  dates,  beaten 
yolks  of  3  eggs  and  y2  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  Y\  cup  sweet  milk. 
Fold  in  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Bake  1  hour  in  moderate  oven. 
Sauce :  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour.  Pour 
over  this  enough  boiling  water  to  make  right  consistency  and  flavor. 

Mrs.  McQuown. 

Date  Tapioca  Pudding.  y2  cup  minute  tapioca,  4  cups  water, 
y2  teaspoon  salt,  24  cup  light  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  chopped  dates,  y2 
cup  chopped  nuts,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cook  the  tapioca  and  water  un- 
til clear.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Serve  cold  with  whipped 
cream.  Mary  Antoinette  Keegan,  Chicago,  111. 

Dessert.  1  cup  cube  pineapple,  1  banana,  1  orange,  5  cts.  worth 
marshmallows  cut  fine,  5  cts.  worth  nut  meats  cut  fine,  cup  sweet 
cream  whipped  and  sweetened.  This  will  serve  six  persons.  Serve 
in  sherbet  cups  with  wafers.  Mrs.  Jas.  Campbell. 


Send  your  soiled  dresses  to  Sanner  &  Goucher 


78 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Fruit  Pudding.  Cut  2  slices  of  bread  (not  too  fresh),  iy2 
inches  thick.  Put  a  layer  of  the  bread,  with  the  crust  cut  off,  in  the 
bottom  of  a  dish.  Take  a  small  can  of  Raspberries,  quite  rich,  and 
heat  to  the  boiling  point.  Cover  the  bread  with  part  of  this,  then  add 
another  layer  of  bread  and  pour  the  rest  of  the  fruit  on  it.  Cover 
and  put  on  a  weight.  When  cold  serve  with  cream,  whipped  cream 
preferred.  Mrs.  Knittle. 

Fruit  Salad.  1  box  gelatine,  1  quart  water,  4  cups  sugar,  8 
oranges,  8  bananas,  4  lemons,  1  can  of  pineapple.  Dissolve  gelatine 
in  the  water  warmed.  Chop  the  fruit  and  mix  all  together.  Set  on 
the  stove  and  let  come  to  boiling  heat,  then  pour  in  molds  and  place 
on  ice.  Mrs.  D.  C.  Mishler. 

Fruit  Pudding.  1  cup  fruit  (any  kind),  1  cup  water,  2  table- 
spoons sugar.  Put  on  stove  to  boil.  Drop  on  top  this  batter :  y2 
cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  egg,  %  cup  water  or  milk,  y  cup 
flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Be  sure  the  juice  is  boiling  when 
you  drop  the  batter  on  and  do  not  stir.  Let  raise,  then  bake  in  oven 
until  brown.  Mrs.  Carl  Moenck. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread.  (Used  for  dessert.)  1  cup  molasses,  2 
eggs,  2  even  cups  flour  after  sifting,  y2  cup  butter,  y  cup  sweet  milk, 
1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  little  salt.  Place  flour  in  mix- 
ing bowl,  add  molasses,  cinnamon  and  salt.  Dissolve  soda  in  milk 
and  add  this.  Do  not  mix  at  all  until  at  this  point,  then  add  butter 
which  has  been  melted  and  last  of  all  the  beaten  eggs.  Bake  very 
slowly  about  1  hour.  The  success  of  this  cake  depends  mainly  upon 
the  quality  of  the  molasses  used  and  the  slow  baking.  Serve  with 
sweetened  whipped  cream  for  dessert. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Hughes,  Beach,  N.  D. 

Gutenspice.  6  eggs,  y2  lb.  chopped  dates,  1  lb.  chopped  wal- 
nuts, 3  tablespoons  cracker  crumbs,  y2  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1 
cup  sugar.  Bake  slowly  in  layers.  Break  in  pieces  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream.  Mrs.  F.  R.  Waters. 

Heavenly  Hash.  1  lb.  marshmallows,  1  can  pineapple,  1  table- 
spoon cooked  salad  dressing,  1  cup  sweet  whipped  cream,  1  cup  sour 
cream,  whipped,  1  cup  pecans  or  walnuts  chopped.  Cut  marshmal- 
low  in  halves  and  fourths  and  pineapple.  Add  1  tablespoon  cooked 
salad  dressing  to  1  cup  sour  cream.  Toss  marshmallows  and  cut 
pineapple  into  whipped  cream  and  salad  dressing.  Let  stand  for  six 
hours.  Mrs.  Estelle  Treat,  Fargo,  N.  D. 

For  furniture  see  Lane  Furniture  Co. 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


79 


Honey  Comb  Pudding.  I  teaspoon  soda,  I  cup  sour  milk,  I 
cup  molasses,  i  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  teaspoon  salt,  stir  thick 
with  flour  and  steam  3  hours.  You  can  mix  in  with  the  above  nut- 
meg and  other  spices  to  suit  taste  and  nut  meats  chopped  fine. 

Lemon  Sauce  for  Honey  Comb  Pudding — y2  cup  butter,  1  cup 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  add  enough  cold  water  to  mix  well; 
pour  over  this  mixture  1  quart  boiling  water  and  when  it  thickens 
add  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar  and  lemon  flavor.  Fine. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Tilton. 

Indian  Pudding.  1  quart  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  J/2 
cup  corn  meal,  2-3  cup  sugar.  Scald  milk  and  stir  in  the  meal.  Cool 
slightly,  then  stir  in  other  ingredients  and  bake  I1/*  hours.  Serve 
with  cream  and  sugar ;  add  raisins  if  you  like.  Mrs.  Godard. 

Indian  Pudding.  (Very  nice.) — 7  heaping  tablespoons  corn- 
meal,  pour  on  this  1  quart  boiling  milk,  2  cups  of  New  Orleans  mo- 
lasses, 2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2  teaspoons  ginger,  y2  teaspoon 
salt,  add  just  before  setting  into  the  oven  1  cup  of  cold  water  and 
bake  from  1  hour  to  1%  hours. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding.  Heat  1  pint  of  sweet  milk  very  hot, 
take  4  tablespoons  cornmeal  wet  in  cold  milk  and  gradually  stir  this 
into  the  hot  milk,  then  take  1  pint  of  cold  milk,  add  2  well  beaten 
eggs,  a  little  salt,  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  spice  to  suit  the  taste ;  mix  all 
together  and  bake  %  of  an  hour.  Mrs.  A.  C.  Shinkle. 

Marshmallow  Pudding.  y2  pound  marshmallows,  1  pint 
cream  whipped  stiff,  y2  pound  English  walnuts,  10  cents  candied 
cherries.  Cut  marshmallows  in  pieces.  Flavor,  let  stand  5  hours 
with  ice  packed  around  it.  Mrs.  Jennie  Sanborn. 

Lemon  Pudding.  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  3  yolks  of  eggs, 
cream  together  and  add  the  grated  yellow  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon, 
6  small  crackers  softened  in  y>  pint  of  milk.  Bake  y2  hour;  when 
baked  spread  over  pudding  a  meringue  made  from  the  whites  of  3 
eggs  and  3  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Return  to  over  and  brown.  No 
sauce.  Mrs.  E.  D.  Harris. 

Marchioness  Pudding.  1  pint  of  sweet  cream,  y±  can  grated 
pineapple,  1  cup  of  sugar,  ^  box  gelatine,  whites  of  2  eggs,  enough 
lady  fingers  to  line  a  dish.  Soak  gelatine  fifteen  minutes  in  cup  of 
water,  then  add  *4  cup  water.    Beat  the  cream  till  stiff ;  add  sugar, 


Banghart's  Store  for  Men 


80 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


vanilla  and  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Cool  gelatine  and  stir  into  the 
pudding  beating  briskly.  Add  pineapple  and  beat  until  it  begins  to 
thicken  when  it  may  be  poured  into  a  dish  lined  with  lady  fingers. 
Make  a  day  before  using.   Enough  for  fifteen. 

Mrs.  M.  F.  Shepherd. 

Marshmallow  and  Fruit  Pudding.  Soak  y  CUP  eacn  candied 
cherries  and  pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces,  in  enough  of  the  pineapple 
juice  to  cover.  Cut  lb.  marshmallows  in  6  pieces  each.  Beat  I 
cup  cream  stiff,  add  3  tablespoons  confectioner's  sugar  gradually, 
then  y2  teaspoon  vanilla.  Mix  marshmallows  and  pineapple,  fold 
into  cream  mixture,  turn  into  moulds  and  chill.  Serve  with  maca- 
roons. Mrs.  Gordon  Kingsley. 

Orange  Pudding.  2  tablespoons  corn  starch  dissolved  in  milk, 
stir  into  1  pint  of  boiling  milk,  a  little  sugar  and  salt,  add  the  whites 
of  2  eggs  beaten  well,  pour  over  3  oranges  peeled  and  sliced  in  a  pud- 
ding dish,  add  1  teacup  sugar  over  oranges. 

Mrs.  Blanche  Reynolds 

Orange  Pudding.  Pare  and  slice  five  large  oranges,  removing 
seeds.  Lay  in  a  deep  dish  and  sprinkle  with  half  cup  sugar,  and  let 
stand.  Make  a  custard  of  1  pint  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  2  tablespoons 
cornstarch;  when  cool  pour  over  oranges.  Beat  the  whites  with  2 
tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar  and  place  on  the  top,  brown  quickly 
in  the  oven.  Ida  Simpson. 

Peach  Meringue.  Boil  1  quart  of  milk,  reserving  y2  teacup 
when  boiled.  Add  reserved  milk  in  which  2  tablespoons  of  corn 
starch  are  dissolved.  When  it  thickens  remove  from  fire  and  add  1 
tablespoon  butter  and  let  cool.  When  cold  beat  in  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs  and  add  1  cup  sugar.  Cover  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  with  3 
layers  of  ripe  peaches,  sprinkling  sugar  over  them.  Pour  custard 
over  fruit,  bake  in  quick  oven  20  minutes.  When  done  cover  with 
frosting  made  of  whites  of  eggs,  and  brown.       Mrs.  McQuown. 

Peach  and  Raisin  Pudding.  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter, 2-3  cup  milk,  1  egg,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  peaches  drained  of 
juice.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together,  add  sugar,  nut- 
meg, well  beaten  egg,  milk,  then  add  raisins  and  peaches.  Mix  well 
and  steam  in  a  buttered  mold  three  hours.    Serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 

Blanche  Lockwood. 


Fine  Millinery  at  The  Martin  Hat  Shop 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


81 


Pineapple  Sponge.  Take  y2  package  gelatine  soaked  in  y2 
cup  cold  water.  When  soaked  enough  add  juice  of  1  lemon,  pour 
over  it  1  cup  boiling  water,  add  iy2  cups  sugar.  Then  add  1  can 
grated  pineapple.  Let  cool  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs,  mix  well.  When  thick  enough  to  keep  the  whites 
from  coming  to  the  top  pour  into  a  wet  mould.  Serve  with  sauce  or 
whipped  cream. 

Sauce — Yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  light,  add  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups 
milk  or  cream.   Cook  to  a  smooth  custard.  Vanilla. 

Mrs.  W .  A.  Blessing. 

Pineapple  Sponge  Dessert.  1  package  lemon  Jello,  1  pt.  boil- 
ing water,  1  ten  cent  can  pineapple  cut  in  cubes,  sugar  to  taste,  1  doz. 
marshmallows  cut  in  small  pieces.  Mix  the  ingredients  and  set  on 
ice  to  cool.  When  it  begins  to  harden  beat  with  an  egg  beater  until 
it  is  foaming  and  white  and  the  marshmallows  nearly  dissolved. 
Then  add  1  pint  whipped  cream  and  beat  until  thoroughly  blended. 
Return  to  the  ice  to  harden  and  when  serving  garnish  with  marsh- 
mallows.   This  quantity  will  serve  about  a  dozen  sherbet  glasses. 

Mrs.  L.  W.  Clark,  Chester,  Iowa. 

Pineapple  Jelly.  Soak  a  package  of  Plymouth  Rock  gelatine 
in  pint  of  water  thirty  minutes.  Take  juice  from  can  of  pineapple 
with  enough  water  to  make  1  pint ;  add  to  this  1  y2  cups  sugar ;  when 
boiling  add  to  gelatine,  stir  until  dissolved;  when  nearly  cold  add 
pineapple.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Gallagher. 

Pineapple  Whip.  Soak  y2  cup  tapioca  over  night.  In  morn- 
ing pour  off  water,  put  in  y2  cup  grated  pineapple,  1  cup  boiling 
water,  juice  of  2  lemons,  y2  cup  sugar.  Let  cook  15  or  20  minutes. 
Then  stir  in  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  and  1  cup  English  walnuts.  Whip 
1  pt.  of  Cream  and  serve.  Lura  Hicks. 

Prune  Pudding.  Stew  20  prunes,  when  cold  chop  fine ;  beat 
the  whites  of  6  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  5  tablespoons  sugar,  then 
the  prunes ;  bake  twenty  minutes.    Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Alf.  Butterworth. 

Prune  Whip  with  Lady  Fingers.  Cook  10  large  prunes  until 
tender.  Remove  stones  and  chop  fine.  Whip  one  cup  rich  cream 
until  stiff ;  sweeten  with  powdered  sugar  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Add 
the  prunes.   Serve  on  small  plates  with  lady  fingers. 

Mrs.  L.  Smith,  Chicago,  111. 

Majestic  and  Riverside  Ranges — Ringlep  Hardware  Co. 

6 


82 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Prune  Pudding.  Stew  i  lb.  prunes,  stone  and  chop ;  i  cup  of 
bread  crumbs,  4  yolks  eggs,  scant  cup  sugar.  Use  the  liquor  from 
prunes,  flavor  with  orange  or  lemon,  bake  %  hour.  Put  whites  of 
eggs  on  top  and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  If  raisins,  currants  and 
spices  are  added,  it  is  nearly  as  good  as  English  plum  pudding. 

Mrs.  Lucia  Stewart  Elwell. 

Raisin  Puffs.  2  eggs,  y2  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  sugar,  1  cup 
milk,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der. Steam  half  an  hour  in  buttered  cups;  do  not  open  steamer 
while  cooking.  Half  of  this  recipe  makes  4  cupfuls.  Serve  with 
thick  cream  or  with  a  warm  sauce.  Mrs.  Max  L.  Wright. 

Raisin  Roll  (Southern  Style.)  Stew  ]/2  lb.  raisins  in  one  quart 
of  water  until  soft.  Let  cool  while  preparing  a  rich  biscuit  dough. 
Roll  dought  to  y2  inch  thickness.  Lift  raisins  after  drained,  and 
spread  over  dough.  Sweeten  a  little.  Place  in  well  buttered  tin  and 
pour  over  the  dough  and  raisins  the  liquid  in  which  the  raisins  were 
cooked.   Have  plenty  of  liquid  as  that  forms  the  dip. 

Mrs.  Richard  Lake,  Clinton,  la. 

Rice  Pudding.  y2  teacup  rice,  1  quart  milk,  1  teacup  sugar ; 
flavor  with  nutmeg,  vanilla  or  lemon,  raisins  can  be  added  if  desired; 
bake  slowly  3  hours  stirring  often.  Mrs.  Harvey  Reid. 

Boiled  Rice.  1  cup  rice,  2^2  cups  cold  water,  2  cups  milk,  y2 
cup  cream,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Wash  rice  in  5  or  6  waters.  Put  in 
double  boiler  with  cold  water  and  salt.  When  rice  has  absorbed  this 
water  (almost  30  min.)  add  milk  and  cream.  Stir  thoroughly  and 
cook  1  hour  longer.  Do  not  stir  after  adding  milk  and  cream.  Can 
be  served  as  a  vegetable,  also  good  as  a  dessert  with  butter  and  brown 
sugar.  Margaret  H.  Hughes,  Beach,  N.  D. 

Rice  Dainty.  1  cup  cooked  rice,  y2  cup  pineapple  diced,  y2 
banana  cut  in  small  pieces,  y2  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  whipped  cream,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla,  pinch  of  salt.    Mix  all  together.    Serve  very  cold. 

Georgia  V.  Price,  DeWitt. 

Rice  Gelatine.  1  tablespoon  Knox's  gelatine  covered  with  y2 
cup  cold  water.  Let  stand  until  it  softens,  then  set  cup  in  hot  water, 
when  dissolved  beat  with  Dover  egg  beater  the  following:  y2  cup 
sugar,  1  cup  cooked  rice,  1  pint  cream  after  whipped,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.    Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken.    Put  in  a  mold  rinsed  in 


Art  Goods  and  Stationery  at  Cundill's 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


83 


cold  water.  Serve  with  fruit  or  berries.  (Should  be  of  the  con- 
sistency of  marshmallows. )  Delia  Wray. 

Spice  Pudding.  y2  cup  butter,  ]/2  cup  sour  milk,  i  cup  mo- 
lasses, i  y2  cup  flour,  3  eggs,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  soda. 
Raisins  if  desired.    Steam  iy2  hours. 

Pudding  Sauce — i  egg  beaten  well,  y2  cup  of  butter,  i  cup  su- 
gar. Add  boiling  water  enough  to  make  desired  thinness;  put  on 
stove  and  let  boil  up.   Flavor  to  taste.  Mrs.  A.  A.  Suthers. 

Strawberry  Float.  (Fine) — y2  box  gelatine  soaked  in  same 
amount  of  water.  Boil  together  for  five  minutes  i  pint  of  water 
and  iy2  cups  sugar,  stir  in  the  gelatine  and  juice  of  i  lemon;  strain 
and  cool.  As  it  begins  to  set  add  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Beat 
all  together  well,  then  stir  in  1  pint  of  whole  berries.  Put  in  wet 
mold.  Mrs.  W.  J.  Matthias. 

Strawberry  Pudding.  y2  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1 
egg,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup 
strawberries.  Steam  1  hour  in  a  pudding  dish  with  a  hole  in  the 
center.   Serve  with  sauce  made  as  follows : 

Sauce — 2  cups  powdered  sugar,  2-3  cups  butter.  Cream  these 
together  and  add  1  egg  beaten  very  light,  then  stir  in  lightlly  one  cup 
strawberries.  Red  raspberries,  peaches,  or  cherries  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  the  strawberries.  Irma  Gilfillan. 

Strawberry  Shortcake.  1  y2  cups  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  1  heaping 
teaspoon  baking  powder ;  stir  all  together ;  3  tablespoons  melted  but- 
ter, 1  egg,  (put  in  cup  with  butter).  Fill  up  cup  with  milk  and  turn 
it  into  the  flour,  beat  thoroughly,  flavor  to  suit  taste.  Bake  in  large 
tin  and  cut  in  squares  or  bake  in  patty  tins.  Strawberry  Sauce  for 
same — y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg  (white  only),  1  large  cup 
of  strawberries.  Beat  sugar  and  eggs  to  a  cream.  Add  white  of  egg 
stiffly  beaten.    Mash  strawberries,  beat  well  together. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Squiers. 

Strawberry  Shortcake.  Take  a  quart  of  sifted  flour,  y2  cup 
butter,  1  egg  well  beaten,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  enough 
milk  to  make  a  rather  stiff  dough ;  knead  well,  and  roll  until  about 
one  inch  thick.   Bake  a  nice  brown.  Mrs.  Wilson  Barnes. 

Strawberry  Shortcake.  2^  cups  sifted  flour,  2^  level  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  y>  teaspoon  salt,  y2  cup  shortening,  about  V* 

Home  Killed  Beef  a  Specialty  at  Lang's 


84 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


cup  milk  (or  water),  2  baskets  strawberries,  between  i  and  2  cups 
sugar,  1  cup  or  more  double  cream,  butter.  Hull,  wash  and  drain 
the  berries;  reserve  a  few  choice  berries  to  garnish  the  top  of  the 
cake ;  cut  the  rest  in  halves  and  mix  with  the  sugar.  Beat  the  cream 
and  set  it  aside  to  chill. 

Sift  together,  three  times  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt; 
work  in  the  shortening;  then  mix  to  a  soft  dough  with  the  milk. 
Spread  the  mixture  in  two  layer  cake  pans.  Bake  about  twenty  min- 
utes. Turn  one  cake  out  on  a  hot  plate,  spread  liberally  with  butter, 
pour  on  part  of  the  berries ;  cover  with  the  second  cake,  also  spread 
with  butter,  pour  over  the  rest  of  the  berries  and  put  the  whipped 
cream  above  with  whole  berries  here  and  there.    Bernice  Webster. 

Steam  Pudding.  1  cup  molasses,  %  cup  melted  butter,  3  cups 
flour,  1  cup  water,  1  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Steam  3  hours 
and  serve  hot  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  to  taste. 

Mrs.  D.  N.  Loose. 

Suet  Pudding.     1  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  1  cup  sour  milk,  2 
eggs  well  beaten,  y  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  raisins,  1  tea- 
spoon soda,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon, 
spoon  nutmeg,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.    Steam  one  hour. 

Sauce  for  Pudding. — 1  pint  of  boiling  water,  y>  cup  sugar,  1 
pinch  salt,  stir  in  a  tablespoon  corn  starch,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 
piece  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  flavor  with  vanilla,  cook  3  minutes. 

Mrs.  Mamie  Hayland,  Cedar  Rapids,  la. 

Suet  Pudding.  1  pint  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  egg,  1  teacup  raisins,  1  teacup  chopped  suet,  1  teacup 
molasses,  1  or  2  apples,  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Steam 
2  hours.  Mrs.  C.  W.  Maltas. 

Suet  Pudding.  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  chop- 
ped suet,  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  currants,  2.y2  cups  flour,  y2  teaspoon 
soda,  mix  well,  pinch  of  salt  and  spice  to  taste.    Steam  2  hours. 

Pudding  Sauce — 1  egg  beaten  well,  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar, 
add  boiling  water  enough  to  make  desired  thinness  and  put  on  stove 
and  let  boil  up.    Flavor  to  taste.  Mrs.  A.  A.  Suthers. 

Fine  Suet  Pudding.  1  cup  sorghum  or  good  molasses,  1  cup 
suet,  1  cup  raisins  with  2,y2  cups  flour  sifted  in,  y2  cup  figs  or  cur- 
rants, 1  cup  sweet  milk,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  y2  teaspoon  each  cinna- 


A.  M.  Avery  for  Drugs,  Paints,  Oils,  Etc. 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


85 


mon,  cloves  if  desired ;  steam  3  hours.  Serve  with  sauce  as  follows : 
1^2  cups  sugar,  1  scant  cup  butter  creamed  together,  2  tablespoons 
flour,  2  eggs  beaten  into  the  above  until  it  creams,  add  1  cup  boiling 
water.    Heat.    Keep  warm  until  wanted.  Mrs.  M.  Rice. 

Steam  Plum  Pudding.  1  pint  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  cold  water, 
cup  molasses,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  salt.  Steam  2  hours.  Sauce — 4  tablespoons 
sugar,  butter  half  size  of  an  egg,  melt  and  beat  to  a  cream,  add  1  egg, 
and  3  tablespoons  sherry  wine.  Just  before  using  stir  in  1  pint 
whipped  cream.  Mrs.  C.  F.  Purdy,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Boiled  Plum  Pudding.  2  cups  sweet  milk,  2  cups  suet,  1  cup 
sugar,  1  cup  syrup,  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  currants,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1 
teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2 
eggs ;  steam  3  hours ;  make  as  stiff  as  pound  cake. 

Mrs.  S.  D.  Lyman. 

English  Plum  (or  Fruit)  Pudding.  1  pound  of  beef  suet  chop- 
ped fine,  1  pound  raisins  chopped  a  little  after  seeding  them,  1  pound 
dried  currants,  i1/^  pounds  flour,  6  eggs  well  beaten,  1  tablespoon 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  allspice,  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  pint  of 
new  milk,  2  ounces  citron,  cut  up  fine,  1  pound  light  brown  sugar,  1 
teacup  grape  juice.  Mix  all  well  together  into  a  stiff  batter  and  then 
tie  in  a  bag  and  steam  from  seven  to  eight  hours.  Give  room  to 
swell  in  the  bag.  Mrs.  Mary  Cundill. 

Tapioca  Pudding.  y2  cup  tapioca  soaked  over  night.  Pour 
off  the  water  if  any  remains,  and  add  y2  cup  of  boiling  water,  y2 
cup  sugar,  juice  of  2  lemons,  y2  can  grated  pineapple.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Fred  Young. 

English  Walnut  Pudding.    1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  y2 
cup  butter,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  boiling  water, 
cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  cloves,  1  cup  rais- 
ins, y2  cup  walnut  meats  (cut).   Dredge  fruit  and  steam  2^  hours. 
Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

Lemon  Sauce — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  Va  cups 
sugar,  piece  of  butter,  2  teaspoons  corn  starch,  cup  boiling  water. 

Mrs.  E.  K.  Wesner. 


Choice  Cut  Flowers  at  H.  L.  Hill's 


86 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


SAUCES. 


Lemon  or  Vanilla  Sauce,  i  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  flour,  2 
cups  boiling  water,  1  lemon,  rind  and  juice,  2  tablespoons  butter. 
Mix  sugar  and  flour  thoroughly,  then  slowly  add  the  boiling  water. 
Cook  15  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  lemon  rind  and  juice, 
then  butter.  Stir  until  butter  is  melted  and  serve  at  once.  If  too 
thick  add  more  water.  For  vanilla  sauce  use  1  y2  teaspoons  vanilla 
in  place  of  lemond  juice  and  rind.  Ella  Mitchell. 

A  Pudding  Sauce.  1  large  tablespoon  butter  beaten  to  a 
cream,  add  gradually  1  T/2  cups  powdered  sugar  and  the  beaten  white 
of  1  egg.  Beat  till  very  light  and  just  before  serving  add  1  pint  of 
strawberries.  Mrs.  George  Cooper. 

Sauce  for  Pudding.  1  cup  sugar,  Y/2  cup  melted  butter  dis- 
solved in  1  cup  boiling  water,  thicken  a  little  and  season  to  taste. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Swig  art. 

Cream  Sauce.  Cream  together  1-3  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  1-3  cup  fresh  strawberries. 

Hard  Sauce.  1  cup  of  very  light  brown  sugar,  ]/2  cup  of  but- 
ter, half  the  grated  rind  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Beat  until  very 
light. 

Lemon  Sauce.  2  cups  hot  water,  1  cup  sugar,  3  heaping  tea- 
spoons cornstarch,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  tablespoon 
butter. 

Apricot  Sauce.  1  cup  apricot  juice,  y2  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
cornstarch  or  flour.  Boil  all  together  five  minutes  and  strain.  Use 
any  kind  of  fruit  juice  or  syrup  in  the  same  manner. 

Molasses  Sauce.  Mix  1  cup  of  molasses,  the  juice  of  1  lemon, 
or  1  tablespoon  vinegar,  ]/2  saltspoon  salt  and  1  tablespoon  butter. 
Boil  ten  minutes  and  serve  with  plain  rice  or  apple  pudding. 

Foamy  Sauce.  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar  beaten  to  a  cream, 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  added  and  beaten  through  the  cream,  4  tablespoons 
boiling  water  poured  into  the  creamed  butter  and  stirred  through  it. 
Set  in  hot  water  to  thicken  but  not  to  melt  sugar.  Just  before  serv- 
ing add  well  beaten  whites  and  a  small  amount  of  tartaric  acid  or 
lemon  juice,  1  saltspoon  nutmeg,  1  saltspoon  salt,  add  very  carefully 
so  as  not  to  curdle  sauce. 

Mrs.  Estelle  Haggart  Treat,  Fargo,  N.  D. 


McCaffrey's  Fine  Cigars 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


89 


PIES. 


"No  soil  upon  earth  is  so  dear  to  our  eyes, 
As  the  soil  we  first  stirred  in  terrestrial  pies." 

In  making  paste,  use  ice  water.  Have  the  lard  and  butter  cold 
and  hard.   Do  not  knead  the  dough,  but  mix  it  as  lightly  as  possible. 

Pie  Crust,  i  large  cup  flour.  Take  out  2  tablespoons  and  fill 
cup  with  corn  starch,  2  tablespoons  lard,  3  tablespoons  water,  pinch 
of  salt.  This  makes  one  pie  and  substituting  the  corn  starch  for 
flour  makes  a  regular  pastry  flour.  Mrs.  Edith  Harris. 

Pie  Crust.  8  tablespoons  of  flour,  2  tablespoons  of  shortening, 
a  little  salt,  4  tablespoons  of  water.  Mrs.  Isa  J.  Kucheman. 

Paste.  2  large  cups  flour,  y2  cup  water,  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup 
lard  and  a  little  salt.  This  will  make  two  pies.  To  make  crust  look 
rich,  take  the  white  of  an  egg  well  beaten,  and  spread  it  upon  the 
pies  lightly  with  a  feather,  just  before  putting  them  into  the  oven; 
1  egg  to  5  pies. 

Puff  Paste.  1  pound  of  butter,  washed  and  frozen,  1  pound  of 
flour;  mix  half  the  butter  with  most  of  the  flour,  and  use  as  little 
(ice)  water  to  mix  with  as  possible;  roll  out  and  put  the  rest  of  the 
butter  on  in  pieces ;  double  and  roll  again ;  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven ; 
pack  away  in  tin.   This  makes  100  tarts. 

Pastry  for  One  Pie.  1  heaping  cup  flour,  1  saltspoon  salt,  1-3 
to  y2  cup  of  lard.   Mix  quite  stiff  with  cold  water. 

Time  Saving  Pie  Crust.  1  good  full  cup  of  cold  lard,  3  cups 
(round)  full  of  flour,  1  even  teaspoon  salt.  Rub  together  till  thor- 
oughly mixed,  set  away  in  a  cold  place  till  you  wish  to  make  a  pie. 
It  will  keep  any  length  of  time,  cold  and  dry.  When  you  wish  to 
make  a  pie  take  1  cup  of  mixture  and  as  little  cold  water  as  you  can 
possibly  get  it  together  with.  Mrs.  Geo.  L.  Mitchell. 


Studebaker  Cars — C.  P.  Bauch,  Distributer 


90 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Meat  Pie  Crust.  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  3  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  egg,  6  tablespoons  melted  butter  (or  substitute). 
Drop  from  spoon  over  top  of  pie  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  until 
brown.  This  crust  may  be  used  with  fresh  or  canned  fruit  for  des- 
serts. Edith  Morden. 

Apple  Pie.  Line  a  very  deep  pie  tin  with  rich  crust.  Mix 
cup  sugar,  J/2  cup  flour,  spread  evenly  in  crust.  Over  this  pour  1 
cups  cold  water  or  ]/2  cup  cream  and  Va  cup  water  if  desired  extra 
nice.  Pare,  halve,  and  core,  as  many  apples  as  will  lay  in  the  crust 
flat  side  down.  Sprinkle  apples  with  cinnamon,  2-3  cup  sugar,  dot 
with  butter,  bake  without  upper  crust.  Apples  must  be  of  a  kind  that 
cook  quickly.  •  Mrs.  M.  M.  Riegel. 

Banana  Pie.  Bake  crust  first  and  when  done  line  bottom  of 
crust  with  sliced  bananas  and  pour  over  the  following  cream:  iy2 
cups  of  milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  butter,  y2 
cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour ;  flavor,  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until 
thick ;  pour  over  the  bananas  and  cover  all  with  the  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs,  and  brown. 

Banana  Pie.  Line  a  pie  dish  with  a  rich  crust.  Bake  and  let 
cool.  Slice  2  large  bananas  into  the  crust.  Make  a  custard  of  one 
cup  milk,  y2  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  2  heaping  teaspoons  of 
flour.  Pour  over  the  banana  when  cool.  Whip  the  whites  of  two 
eggs,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cover  top  of  pie  and  set  in  oven  long 
enough  to  brown.    Serve  cold. 

Georgia  Snoddy  Price,  DeYVitt,  Iowa. 

Banberry  Pie.  1  package  raisins  (seedless),  1  egg,  1  cup  su- 
gar, juice  of  1  lemon,  place  this  mixture  over  boiling  water  while 
making  crust.  Pastry — 2  cup  flour,  1  scant  cup  lard,  rolled  and  cut 
the  size  of  a  saucer;  fill  with  1  tablespoon  of  the  fruit  mixture,  turn 
over  and  bake.  Mrs.  N.  E.  Butterzcorth. 

Butter  Scotch  Pie.  1  cup  brown  sugar,  3  tablespoons  maple 
syrup,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour  dissolved  in  3  table- 
spoons cream,  2  yolks  of  eggs  (beaten),  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Bake  a  pie  crust. 
Fill  and  cover  with  whipped  cream.  Flavor  whipped  cream  with  a 
little  maple  sugar  and  vanilla.  Mrs.  0.  C.  Kucheman. 

Butter  Scotch  Pie.  Line  a  deep  pie  tin  with  rich  crust  and 
bake  a  delicate  brown.  Fill  with  cream  filling  made  as  follows: 
boil  1  cup  brown  sugar  and  5  tablespoons  water  until  it  forms  a 


Trade  at  The  Golden  Rule 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


91 


syrup.  Add  i  cup  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoon 
corn  starch  which  has  been  moistened  with  a  little  milk.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  add  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  small  lump  of  butter  and  I 
teaspoon  vanilla.  Cover  the  top  of  the  pie  with  a  meringue  and 
brown  in  oven.  Mrs.  0.  J.  Keegan,  Chicago,  111. 

Butter  Scotch  Pie.  i  tablespoon  butter,  i  cup  brown  sugar, 
iy2  table  spoon  flour,  i1/*  cups  milk,  yolk  of  i  egg.  Melt  butter  in 
skillet,  real  brown,  stir  in  brown  sugar,  then  y2  cup  milk ;  let  cook  for 
couple  of  minutes.  Beat  flour  in  the  cup  of  milk  until  dissolved 
then  add  egg  yolk.  Stir  constantly,  when  thick  remove  from  fire, 
add  i  teaspoon  vanilla.  White  of  egg  for  frosting.  If  2  eggs  are 
used,  use  less  flour. 

Mrs.  Nettie  Swigart-Shannon,  Aberdeen,  N.  D. 

Butter  Scotch  Pie.  i  cup  brown  sugar,  3  tablespoons  maple 
syrup,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour  dissolved  in  3  table- 
spoons cream,  2  yolks  of  eggs  (beaten),  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Bake  a  pie  crust. 
Fill  and  cover  with  whipped  cream.  Flavor  whipped  cream  with  a 
little  maple  syrup  and  vanilla.  Mrs.  0.  C.  Kucheman. 

Caramel  Pie.  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  pint  milk,  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons flour,  1  cup  brown  sugar.  Brown  the  sugar  in  sauce  pan, 
add  butter  and  flour.  Then  beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  add  to  milk ;  pour 
this  into  brown  sugar  mixture,  stir  until  smooth.  Pour  into  baked 
pie  shell.  Use  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue.  Whipped  cream  may 
be  used.  Mrs.  A.  B.  MacNab,  Beach,  N.  D. 

Cheese  Cake.  Line  a  pie  tin  with  rich  dough.  Then  mix  y2 
lb.  cottage  cheese  with  pinch  of  salt,  *4  CUP  melted  butter,  l/2  cup 
sugar,  ]/2  lemon  rind  grated,  2  egg  yolks,  y2  cup  currants,  2  egg 
whites  stiffly  beaten.  Fill  crust  with  this  mixture  and  serve  either 
hot  or  cold  with  coffee.      Bernice  Banghart  Grant,  Omaha,  Neb. 

Chocolate  Pie.  Yolks  of  2  eggs,  y2  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
corn  starch,  y2  pint  milk,  small  lump  butter,  chocolate  dissolved  in 
boiling  water.  Cook  until  smooth.  Fill  baked  crust  and  cover  with 
meringue  and  brown  in  oven.  Mrs.  Harvey  N.  Dilley. 

Cranberry  Pie.  1  cup  raw  cranberries,  cut  up  1  cup  raisins,  1 
cup  sugar,  1  large  spoonful  flour,  1  large  spoonful  melted  butter,  1 
dessertspoon  vanilla,  1  cup  cold  water,  a  little  salt,  put  in  crust  and 
bake. 


Hansen  Produce  Co.'s  Fancy  Creamery  Butter 


92 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Cocoanut  Pie.  2  cups  milk,  2  eggs,  2  heaping  tablespoons  corn 
starch,  i  cup  sugar.  Scald  the  milk,  add  yolks,  corn  starch  and  su- 
gar. Pour  into  a  baked  crust,  then  frost  with  beaten  whites  of  eggs, 
2  teaspoons  sugar.    Sprinkle  with  cocoanut  and  brown. 

Mrs.  S.  B.  Sears. 

Cream  Pie.  Pour  a  pint  of  cream  upon  1%  cups  powdered 
sugar ;  let  stand  until  the  whites  of  3  eggs  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  this  to  the  cream  and  beat  up  thoroughly;  grate  a  little 
nutmeg  over  the  mixture. 

Cream  Pie.  2  cups  sweet  cream,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  %  CUP 
flour,  scald  cream  and  sugar,  wet  flour  with  milk,  add  and  cook  like 
custard.  Put  in  crust  already  baked,  grate  nutmeg  over  top.  Put 
in  oven  long  enough  to  set.      Mrs.  Albert  M.  Price,  DeWitt,  la. 

Cream  Pie.  2  cups  scalded  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  %  cup  sugar, 
1-3  cup  flour,  2  eggs ;  mix  last  3  with  a  little  cold  milk  then  mix  al- 
together and  cook  1 5  minutes,  put  in  a  crust  which  has  been  baked 
separately,  when  cool  put  on  whipped  cream  on  top. 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Tilton. 

Cream  Pie.  Bake  pie  crust  first.  Cream  Filling :  ^4  pint  milk 
and  pinch  of  salt,  y2  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut,  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  1  tablespoon  flour.  Mix  sugar  and  eggs  to  a  cream  and  flour. 
Put  milk  on  with  butter  the  size  of  walnut  and  let  come  to  a  boil  and 
then  add  the  other  part  and  cook  till  thick.  Add  vanilla  to  flavor. 
Beat  the  2  whites  of  eggs  for  the  frosting,  put  on  top  and  brown 
lightly.  Mrs.  A.  A.  Suthers. 

Sour  Cream  Pie.  1  cup  sour  cream,  1  cup  raisns,  2  eggs,  y2 
cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Spiced  Cream  Pie.  Yolks  of  2  eggs,  %  CUP  sugar,  1  cup  sweet 
cream,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ]/2  teaspoon  cloves,  y2  teaspoon  corn 
starch.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add  enough  milk  to  fill  an  unbaked 
crust.   Use  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue.     Mrs.  W.  A.  Blessing. 

Cream  Custard  Pie.  2  cups  cream,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
flour,  3  eggs  (whites  only),  vanilla.  Mix  flour  and  sugar  together. 
Beat  up  whites  until  light  and  add  sugar.  Stir  mixture  into  the 
cream  and  flavor.  Pour  into  an  unbaked  crust  and  bake.  The 
whites  will  rise  to  top  and  make  the  loveliest  brown  frosting. 

Delia  Wray. 


The  Racket  Store  sells  Cooking  Utensils 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


93 


Cream  Gooseberry  Pie.  Fill  pan  with  puff  paste.  For  filling 
mix  in  the  order  mentioned  the  following  ingredients :  i  cup  sugar, 
2  tablespoons  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  i  cup  thick  cream,  i  cup  gooseber- 
ries that  have  been  cooked  without  sugar.  Dot  top  with  bits  of  but- 
ter, add  top  crust  and  bake.  Grace  Crane  Keck. 

Hickory  Nut  Pie.  i  pint  milk,  y2  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons flour,  cup  finely  chopped  nuts.  Cook  in  double  boiler  and 
when  thick  enough  place  in  pie  shell.  Cover  with  meringue  and 
brown. 

Lemon  Pie.  Max  in  turn  i  y2  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  corn 
starch,  2  lemons  grated  fine  and  juice,  3  eggs,  use  whites  for  tops. 
Stir  together  well  then  add  three  cups  of  boiling  water  and  boil  un- 
til thick.   Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff  for  tops.       Mrs.  C.  B.  Tilton. 

Picnic  Lemon  Pies.  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1  lemon,  juice.  Grate 
the  rind,  and  use  enough  bread  crumbs  to  clean  the  grater.  Make  a 
rich  puff  paste,  line  patty  pans,  fill  with  2  tablespoons  of  the  above 
ingredients,  put  on  upper  crust,  and  bake.  M.  F.  Shepherd. 

Lemon  Pie.  1  lemon,  1  cup  sugar,  3  eggs  (leave  whites  for 
frosting),  1  heaping  tablespoon  flour,  butter  size  of  hickory  nut,  1 
cup  boiling  water.    Bake  crust  separate.    Frosting  for  top. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Anderson. 

Lemon  Pie.  (2  pies.)  4  soda  crackers  rolled  fine,  pour  over 
cup  boiling  water,  let  stand  10  minutes,  yolks  4  eggs,  1^2  cups  sugar, 
grated  rinds  and  juice  2  lemons,  put  in  pastry  and  bake.  Top :  whites 
of  eggs,  J^cup  sugar.   Brown.  Louise  Meyer. 

Lemon  Pie.  2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  1  lump  butter 
size  of  walnut,  2  crackers  rolled  fine,  1  lemon.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  grated  rind  of  the  lemon,  then  crackers, 
juice  of  lemon  and  the  milk;  then  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Emma  Geisler. 

Mince  Meat.  (No  meat  used.)  Chop  4  quarts  green  toma- 
toes. Let  stand  over  night,  in  weak  salt  water.  Drain  in  the  morn- 
ing, boil  y2  hour  in  enough  water  to  cover.  Drain.  Then  add :  1 
cup  sliced  or  chopped  citron,  1  lb.  each  currants  and  raisins,  1  cup 
brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  each  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  salt,  1  cup 
vinegar.   Boil  1 5  or  20  minutes  or  until  tender.    Seal  up  hot. 

Mrs.  M.  Rice. 


Wright  Motor  Car  Co.,  Cor.  Pleasant  and  Olive  Sts. 


94 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Mince  Meat  6  lbs.  beef,  a  cut  from  the  neck  or  near  the 
shoulder  is  best,  i  lb.  suet  or  enough  to  make  a  bowl  full  after  put- 
ting through  meat  grinder,  3  bowls  meat,  5  bowls  apples  chopped, 
do  not  grind,  1  bowl  molasses,  1  bowl  vinegar,  2  bowls  raisins,  1 
bowl  currants,  5  bowls  sugar,  2  tablespoons  salt,  1  tablespoon  black 
pepper,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  3  lemons,  canned  cherries  may  be 
added  or  any  other  fruit.  Mix  all  together,  bring  to  a  boiling  point, 
cook  15  or  20  minutes.   This  makes  about  2  gallons. 

Mrs.  H.  Kruse. 

Mock  Mince  Pie.  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sour  cream 
(or  sour  milk  could  be  used),  2  eggs,  3  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  cloves.  Mrs.  Will  Cundill. 

Mince  Meat.  3  bowls  meat  (ground),  1  bowl  vinegar,  2  bowls 
raisins,  5  bowls  apples,  1  bowl  cider,  5  bowls  sugar,  1  bowl  molasses, 

1  bowl  butter,  1  bowl  suet,  1  bowl  currants,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon, 

2  tablespoons  nutmeg,  2  tablespoons  cloves,  1  tablespoon  salt,  1 
tablespoon  black  pepper,  2  oranges  free  of  seeds,  (ground),  2  lem- 
ons free  of  seeds,  (ground.)  Mrs.  C.  V.  Burleson. 

Orange  Pie.  Juice  of  2  tart  oranges  freed  from  seeds,  grated 
rind  of  1 ;  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  %  CUP  sugar,  1  cup  cold  water,  2 
teaspoons  cornstarch.  Cook  these  ingredients  in  a  double  boiler  until 
the  mixture  thickens  and  pour  into  a  crust  which  has  been  previously 
made.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  2 
tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  spread  over  the  top,  browning 
slightly  in  the  oven.  Mrs.  Julia  B.  Dunham. 

Pumpkin  Pie.  Line  quite  a  deep  pan  with  puff  paste.  For 
filling :  to  3  thoroughly  beaten  eggs  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  y2  teaspoon 
each  of  cinnamon  and  ginger,  y2  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  pumpkin, 
beat  thoroughly  and  add  enough  thick  sweet  cream  to  fill  a  pan. 
Sprinkle  a  few  black  walnut  meats  over  the  top  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  until  set.  Mrs.  Elmer  Crane. 

Pumpkin  Pie.  Cut  a  pumpkin  into  small  pieces,  remove  the 
soft  part  and  the  seeds.  Cover  and  cook  it  slowly  in  its  own  steam 
until  tender,  then  remove  the  cover  and  reduce  it  almost  to  dryness, 
using  care  that  it  does  not  burn.  Push  it  through  a  colander.  To 
each  2y2  cups  add  2  cups  milk,  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  butter,  cinna- 
mon and  ginger,  1  tablespoon  molasses,  2  eggs  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Add  the  beaten  eggs  last.  Mrs.  Geo.  L.  Mitchell. 


Reiter's  Grocery — The  Home  of  Good  Things  to  Eat. 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


95 


Lemon-Raisin  Pie.  I  cup  chopped  seeded  raisins,  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  i  lemon,  i  cup  cold  water,  i  tablespoon  flour,  i  cup 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter.  Stir  lightly  together  and  bake  with  up- 
per and  under  crust.  Mrs.  Helen  Sleigh. 

Raisin  Pie.  i  cup  milk  or  cream,  ]/2  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  raisins 
chopped  fine,  small  piece  of  butter,  cook  together  and  add  the  yolks 
of  3  eggs ;  bake  crust  separate.  Put  in  cream  and  use  the  3  whites 
for  meringue ;  it  is  delicious.  Mrs.  Carrie  B.  Hoag. 

Raisin  Pie.  1  cup  milk,  T/2  cup  sugar,  yolks  2  eggs,  cup 
raisins,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  heaping  teaspoon  corn  starch.  Cook  in 
double  boiler.  Whites  of  eggs  for  top.     Virginia  Trumbo  Jones. 

Prune  Pie.  Line  a  pie  pan  with  rich  crust,  cover  the  bottom 
with  1  layer  of  prunes,  cooled  and  seeded.  Pour  over  this  a  plain 
custard  and  bake.    Cover  with  meringue  and  slightly  brown. 

Rhubarb  Pie.  One  crust,  1  %  cups  sliced  rhubarb,  1  egg  beaten 
light,  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour  sifted  into  the  sugar. 

Mrs.  M.  Rice. 

Pieplant-Raisin  Pie.  2  cups  pieplant  cut  in  y2  inch  pieces,  1 
cup  raisins,  y2  cup  sugar.  The  raisins  absorb  the  pieplant  juice  and 
give  the  pieplant  a  raisin  flavor.   Bake  between  2  crusts. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Staman,  Elwood,  la. 

Pieplant-Custard  Pie.  2  cups  pieplant  cut  in  y2  inch  pieces, 
2-3  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour  (may  omit),  2  eggs.  Mix  all  to- 
gether and  place  in  crust,  cover  with  other  crust  and  bake. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Staman,  Elwood,  la. 

Dutch  Rhubarb  Pie.  2  cups  fresh  rhubarb,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup 
sour  cream,  yolks  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  flour.  Line  pie  tin  with 
crust,  put  in  rhubarb,  add  sugar  first,  then  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  with 
cream  and  flour.  Bake  until  done  and  add  white  of  eggs  and  return 
to  oven  and  brown.  Mrs.  W .  A.  Blessing. 

Rhubarb  and  Apple  Pie.  Peel  and  chop  enough  tender  rhu- 
barb to  measure  1  pint.  Mix  it  with  1  pint  of  stewed  apples,  2  cups 
sugar,  and  1  cup  chopped  raisins;  flavor  with  1  teaspoon  of  lemon 
and  a  few  gratings  of  nutmeg.  Line  a  deep  pie  dish  with  rich  pastry, 
then  fill  with  the  rhubarb  and  apples ;  cover  with  top  crust  and  bake 
for      of  an  hour.  Mrs.  M.  W .  Rhodes,  Hurstville,  Iowa. 


Cook  with  Gas — Maquoketa  Light  and  Fuel  Co. 


96 


Hoffmann  Bros. — The  Home  of  Quality  Groceries 


Strawberry  Pie.  Bake  bottom  crust,  prick  to  keep  in  shape ; 
as  soon  as  baked  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  then  fill  with  berries  well 
dredged  with  powdered  sugar.  Cover  with  whipped  cream  sweet- 
ened. Elisabeth  Kaler. 

Black  Walnut  Pie.  I  cup  dark  brown  sugar,  i  cup  sweet  milk, 
i  tablespoon  butter,  i  tablespoon  flour,  yolks  2  eggs,  y2  cup  nut 
meats,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  butter  together 
first,  then  eggs  and  milk  and  nuts  last.  Use  whites  of  egg  for 
frosting.   This  will  make  1  pie.  Mrs.  J  as.  Campbell. 


Guaranteed  Jewelry  at  C.  A.  Gallagher  &  Son 


Insurance — H.  Gale  Buchner 


99 


CAKES. 


Angel  Food  Cake.  Whites  of  10  eggs,  1*4  cups  sifted  granu- 
lated sugar,  i  cup  flour  thoroughly  sifted,  y2  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 
a  pinch  of  salt  added  to  eggs  before  beating.  After  sifting  flour  4 
or  5  times,  measure  and  set  aside  1  cup ;  then  sift  and  measure  1  *4 
cups  granulated  sugar;  beat  whites  of  eggs  about  half,  add  cream 
tartar  and  beat  until  very,  very  stiff;  stir  in  sugar,  then  flour  very 
lightly.  Put  in  ungreased  pan  in  a  moderate  oven.  It  will  bake  in 
35  to  50  minutes.  Invert  pan  after  taking  from  oven,  and  leave  in 
this  position  until  the  cake  is  cool.  Bernice  Webster. 

Angel  Food  Cake.  Whites  of  11  eggs,  1  y2  tumblers  granu- 
lated sugar,  1  tumbler  flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  cream 
tartar.  Sift  flour  with  cream  tartar  5  times,  sift  sugar,  beat  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar  lightly,  then  the  flour  very  lightly,  and  then 
vanilla.  Do  not  stop  beating  until  put  in  the  pan  to  bake.  Do  not 
open  oven  until  cake  has  been  in  1 5  minutes.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
from  35  to  50  minutes.   Turn  pan  upside  down  to  cool. 

Mrs.  H.  P.  Morse. 

Boiled  Yellow  Angel  Food.  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  water  boiled 
until  it  spins  a  thread,  1  cup  flour  sifted  4  times,  6  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately.  Pour  boiled  sugar  and  water  over  beaten 
whites  in  which  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar  has  been  sifted  and 
beat  10  minutes.  Beat  juice  of  1  lemon  into  beaten  yolks  carefully 
and  add  little  grated  lemon  peel,  then  add  to  whites  and  sugar.  Fold 
flour  into  whites  and  yolks  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  in  ungreased 
pan  from  30  minutes  to  an  hour.  Turn  pan  upside  down  until  cold 
and  falls  out.    (Fine) .  Mrs.  C.  W.  M alias. 

Mock  Angel  Food.  Set  1  cup  milk  in  dipper  of  water  to  heat 
to  boiling  point,  into  sifter  put  1  cup  flour  and  1  cup  sugar,  3  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  and  pinch  of  salt,  sift  4  times.  Into  this  pour 
boiling  milk  and  stir  smooth,  then  put  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2 
eggs.  Do  not  stir  but  fold  carefully.  Do  not  grease  pan,  bake  in 
moderate  oven.    Flavor  to  taste.  Mrs.  Stephen  Palmer. 


100  Per  Cent.  Value  at  Geisler  Shoe  and  Clothing  Co. 


100 


Hayes'  Grocery — Nothing  but  the  Best 


Small  Angel  Food  Cake.  Whites  of  5  eggs,  2-3  cup  sugar 
sifted  twice,  y2  cup  flour  sifted  several  times,  y2  teaspoon  cream 
tartar,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  y>  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  whites  until 
frothy.  Add  cream  tartar,  beat  until  stiff.  Fold  in  sugar.  Fold  in 
flour  and  salt.   Add  flavoring.    Bake  40  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Sunshine  Cake.  6  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  1-3  teaspoon 
cream  tartar.  Sift  flour  five  times,  beat  yolks  of  eggs,  sift  sugar 
once.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  half  and  add  1-3  teaspoon  cream  tartar 
and  beat  until  stiff.  Add  sugar.  Beat  a  little  longer  and  then  fold 
in  yolks  and  then  fold  in  flour.   Bake  in  slow  oven  for  40  minutes. 

Mrs.  W .  H.  Black,  Youngstown,  Ohio. 

Sponge  Cake.  To  beaten  whites  of  5  eggs  add  separately 
each  yolk  one  at  a  time,  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  one 
cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  Baking  powder,  pour  into  shallow  pan,  bake  20 
minutes.    Frost  with  cocoa  Fudge  Frosting.  Agnes  Staack. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake.  No  eggs,  no  milk.  1  cup  sugar,  J/2  cup 
butter  (scant),  1  cup  apple  sauce,  1  cup  raisins,  J/2  teaspoon  each  of 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  saleratus,  y2  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  1%  cups  flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  dissolve 
saleratus  in  apple  sauce,  add  raisins,  then  the  spices;  beat  all  to- 
gether ;  add  flour  and  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  Richard  Lake,  Clinton,,  la. 

Sour  Apple  Sauce  Cake.  Cream  1  cup  sugar  and  y2  cup  but- 
ter, add  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  cloves, 
34  of  a  nutmeg,  y2  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  teaspoon  soda  in  1  cup  of 
sour  apple  sauce  (sauce  made  without  sugar).  Beat  well,  add  1^4 
cups  flour  sifted  three  times.  Bake  slowly.  Frost  with  white  frost- 
ing. Mrs.  Geo.  L.  Mitchell. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake.  y>  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  V/2  cups  ap- 
ple sauce,  1  cup  nuts,  1  cup  raisins,  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  each 
nutmeg,  cinnamon,  iy2  teaspoons  soda  in  table  spoon  hot  water. 
Bake  in  loaf.  Mrs.  Hannah  Glaser. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake.  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  apple  sauce,  warm,  1 
cup  shortening,  butter,  lard,  and  salt.  Mix  together.  3^  teaspoons 
soda,  level,  in  little  hot  water,  3^  cups  flour,  1  square  chocolate, 
melted,  1  cup  raisins,  chopped,  y2  cup  nut  meats,  chopped,  %  tea- 
spoon cloves,  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Bake  1 
hour  slowly.  Mrs.  Hozvard  Storm. 


Iron  in  Comfort,  the  Electric  Way — Iowa  Electric  Co. 


The  Lee-Fisher  Company  for  Dry  Goods,  Etc.  101 


Bread  Cake,  i  cup  sponge,  y2  cup  butter  y2  cup  molasses,  i 
cup  sugar,  i  cup  raisins,  2  eggs,  i  teaspoon  soda,  about  i  cup  of  flour, 
spices  to  taste.  Mrs.  N.  E.  Butterzvorth. 

Quick  Coffee  Cake.  y  cup  sugar,  y  cup  milk,  2^4  cups  flour, 
i  cup  raisins,  4  tablespoons  melted  butter,  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1 
egg,  3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  spread  in  shallow  pan  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Harry  Joiner. 

German  Christmas  Cake.  1  cup  yeast  sponge,  6  cups  flour, 
1  y2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  cups  warm  milk.  Mix  in  a  bowl, 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  raise.  When  the  dough  is  light,  add  1 
cup  of  butter,  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  currants,  y2  cup  shredded  citron, 
grated  rind  of  one  orange  and  1  lemon,  2  teaspoons  nutmeg.  Mix 
well  together  and  let  rise  slowly  until  light.  Mold  into  three  loaves 
and  when  light  but  not  spongy,  bake  45  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
When  almost  done,  brush  over  the  top  with  milk.  This  will  keep  in 
a  covered  box  two  weeks.  Mrs.  L.  Smith,  Chicago,  111. 

Cocoanut  Puffs.    iy2  cups  chopped  cocoanut,  3  whites  of  eggs, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  y2  tablespoons  cornstarch,  y2  teaspoon  vanilla  extract, 
pinch  of  salt.  Add  the  salt  to  the  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  them  until 
very  stiff,  then  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar  and  the  cocoanut.  Put 
this  mixture  into  a  double  boiler  and  cook  it  for  20  minutes.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  gradually  add  the  cornstarch  and  the  vanilla  ex- 
tract. Drop  in  tablespoons  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  they  are  crisp  and  of  a  light  brown  color. 

Lena  A.  S.  Blessing. 

Burnt  Sugar  Cake.  Burn  2-3  cup  sugar,  add  y  cup  hot  water, 
and  let  cool,  cream  1  cup  sugar,  scant  y2  cup  butter,  stir  in  2  yolks 
of  eggs,  add  burnt  sugar,  beat  light,  add  1  cup  cold  water,  but  do 
not  stir,  2%  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Put  in  a  little 
flour  at  a  time  on  the  water,  2  teaspoons  vanilla,  beat  light,  beat  2 
whites  of  eggs  and  fold  in. 

Filling  for  above  cake — 1  cup  sugar,  6  tablespoons  cream,  and 
a  little  butter,  3  or  4  tablespoons  burnt  sugar.  Boil  just  a  little,  add 
vanilla.    Do  not  beat  too  long,  makes  it  hard. 

Mrs.  Stephen  Palmer. 

Cocoanut  Cake.    1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  milk, 

2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon 


Cadillac — ] 


■Palmers  Auto  and  Supply  Co. 


— Buick 


102 


The  Taste-Good  Cake  at  The  Sanitary  Bakery 


lemon  extract.  Frosting — iy2  cups  sugar,  %  CUP  water,  whites  of 
2  eggs.  Mrs.  Harvey  Dilley. 

Cherry  Cake.  I  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  3  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately leaving  one  for  frosting,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  strained  cherries, 
J/2  cup  cherry  juice,  1  level  teaspoon  soda  in  flour,  1  level  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  1  level  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Margaret  McCarthy. 

Fudge  Cake.  2  squares  chocolate,  yolk  of  1  egg,  y2  cup 
sweet  milk,  cook  together  until  thick,  1  scant  cup  sugar,  3  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  1  y>  cup  sour  milk,  1  y2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.    Stir  last  part  into  the  cooked  ingredients. 

Mrs.  David  Wright. 

Chocolate  Cake.  CUPS  brown  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  y2  cup 
chocolate,  yolk  of  1  egg.  Boil  and  cool  this.  1  cup  brown  sugar, 
24  cup  butter,  2^  cups  flour,  y2  cup  milk,  2  eggs  beaten  stiff,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  soda  in  warm 
water,  add  last  and  then  add  chocolate  mixture. 

Mrs.  James  Campbell. 

Cocoa  Loaf  Cake.  1  y2  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  2  tablespoons  cocoa  to  which  has  been  added  y2  cup  boiling 
water,  1  cup  buttermilk  (or  sour  milk),  into  which  1  teaspoon  of 
soda  has  been  dissolved,  2  cups  flour,  y2  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla,  pinch  of  salt  and  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 

Mrs.  E.  N.  Bills,  Chicago,  111. 

Chocolate  Cake.  Cook  to  a  cream  y2  cup  chocolate,  y2  cup 
sugar,  y2  cup  milk,  1  egg.  Cook  before  using,  2-3  cup  sugar,  y2  cup 
butter,  y2  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  y2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  cups  flour.  Mrs.  F.  IV.  Wray. 

Devils  Food.  1  y2  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  2  eggs.  Dissolve 
y2  cup  chocolate  in  y2  cup  boiling  water.  Add  2  cups  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Add  *4  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  y2  cup 
cold  water.  Mrs.  W .  R.  Knight. 

Chocolate  Cup  Cakes.     6  tablespoons  butter,  1  y2  cups  sugar, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  2-3  cups  flour,  3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

2  eggs,  2  squares  chocolate,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  After  creaming  su- 
gar and  butter  add  egg  and  milk,  and  flour,  sifted  with  baking  pow- 
der. Lastly  add  the  chocolate  dissolved  with  2  tablespoons  sugar 
and  a  little  milk.   When  cooled  add  to  the  batter  and  fill  pattie  pans 


"Hawley's  to  be  sure"  for  photographs 


Alf.  S.  ("Nasby")  Butterworth,  136  Main  Street  103 


about  half  full.  Bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven  about  15  to  20  minutes. 
Frost  when  cold  with  boiled  frosting.  Mrs.  A.  M.  Avery. 

Chocolate  Cake.  y2  cup  shortening,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  milk, 
2y2  cups  flour,  2y2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  3  tablespoons  (or 
more)  chocolate  or  cocoa,  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Grate  the  chocolate 
and  add  y2  cup  boiling  water,  y2  cup  sugar  and  y2  teaspoon  soda. 
Add  the  other  ingredients  and  bake  either  in  a  loaf  or  in  layers. 

Edith  M  or  den. 

Chocolate  Cake.  cake  chocolate,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  yolk 
of  1  egg.  Cook  until  thick.  Add  1  cup  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon 
butter,  1 cups  flour,  stir  and  add  y2  cup  sweet  milk  with  1  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  it,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Gordon  Kingsley. 

Cocoa  Cake.  2  cups  dark  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  butter  and  lard, 
1  cup  sour  milk,  2J/2  cups  flour,  1  level  teaspoon  soda  in  y2  cup  hot 
water,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Frosting — 1  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  blend 
together,  1  y2  tablespoons  cocoa,  2  tablespoons  hot  coffee  and  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Helen  Wright. 

Cocoa  Feather  Cake.  1  y2  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  melted  butter,  3 
eggs  beaten  with  sugar,  pinch  salt,  3  tablespoons  cocoa,  2  small  cups 
flour,  2-3  cup  cold  water,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder.   Bake  in  2  layers.  Mrs.  George  Brown. 

Brown  Stone  Front.  1st  Part:  y2  cup  brown  sugar,  y2  cup 
grated  bitter  chocolate,  y2  cup  sweet  milk.  Boil  until  thickened  and 
let  cool.  2nd  part.  1  cup  white  sugar,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  y2 
cup  butter,  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Mix 
part  1  with  part  2,  add  flour  lastly.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Anderson. 

Chocolate  Cake.  4  squares  chocolate,  1  cup  butter,  2  cups  su- 
gar, 5  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
(level),  salt,  vanilla.  Melt  chocolate  and  butter  together,  sift  flour 
once,  then  measure.  This  makes  a  large  cake.  Frost  with  any  de- 
sired frosting.  Margaret  H.  Hughes,  Beach,  N.  D. 

Chocolate  Bars.  1  cup  sugar,  CUP  melted  butter,  2  squares 
melted  chocolate,  y2  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  cup  flour  after  sifted,  y2 
cup  pecan  nut  meats  left  whole,  1-3  cup  milk.  Bake  in  sheet  and  cut 
into  bars  when  cold.  Glennett  K.  MacNab,  Beach,  N.  D. 


Petroleum  Carbon,  the  Ashless  Fuel — Green  Bay  Lumber  Co. 


104 


Linens !  yes  you  get  better  linens  at  Martensen's 


Corn  Flake  Drops.  Whites  of  5  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  co- 
coanut,  3  cups  corn  flakes,  1  cup  nut  meats.  Flavor.  Drop  in  but- 
tered tins. 

Corn  Flake  Drops.  Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  1  cup 
sugar,  1  cup  cocoanut,  2  cups  corn  flakes,  Yz  cup  nut  meats  at  your 
pleasure.  Mrs.  E.  D.  Hansen. 

Loaf  Chocolate  Cake.  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg  beaten,  3  table- 
spoons chocolate  heated  in  y2  cup  water,  add  1^2  cups  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Mix  all  thoroughly.  Then  add  y2  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  y2  cup  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Georgia  V.  Price,  DeWitt,  Iowa. 

Mocha  Cake.  1  cup  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  butter  creamed, 
24  cup  milk,  1  rounding  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  y2  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  yolk  of  1  egg,  2  squares  Bakers  chocolate  melted, 
white  of  1  egg  beaten  stiff  and  added  last.  Bake  in  loaf  or  two 
layers.  Filling — 1  cup  confectioner's  sugar,  1  large  tablespoon  but- 
ter, 2  teaspoons  cocoa,  T/2  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  tablespoons  hot  coffee. 
Beat  all  together  and  spread.  Irma  Gilfillan. 

Frosted  Date  Cakes.    1  cup  chopped  dates,  1-3  cup  butter,  1 

cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  %  cup  milk,  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  y2  teaspoon  powdered  ginger,  y  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
y  teaspoon  powdered  cloves.  Boiled  Frosting.  Beat  the  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  the  milk,  flour,  bak- 
ing powder,  spices  and  dates.  Mix  and  divide  into  buttered  and 
floured  gem  pans.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes, 
when  cold  cover  with  frosting  and  decorate  with  stoned  dates. 

Elisabeth  Kaler. 

Fig  Loaf  Cake.  3  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  4  cups 
flour,  2  cups  chopped  figs,  pound  of  citron,  5  eggs,  whites  beaten 
separately  and  added  last  thing,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  This 
recipe  will  make  2  loaves  Mrs.  Belle  Cravens. 

Fig  Cake.  iiy2  cups  sugar,  y>  cup  butter,  2^  cups  flour,  2-3 
cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of  4  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  y2  cup 
corstarch,  2  cups  flour.  Filling — Fifteen  cents  worth  of  figs,  1  cup 
raisins,  seeded;  steam  a  few  minutes,  then  add  butter  the  size  of  a 
hickory-nut,  y2  cup  of  fine  sugar ;  steam  until  real  soft. 

Mrs.  Frank  Mitchell. 


Garments  of  Quality  "Sunshine  or  Stylecraft,"  at  Lamey's 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Pure  Spices 


105 


White  Fruit  Cake,  i  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2^ 
cups  flour,  whites  of  8  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  lb.  each  of 
raisins,  figs  and  blanched  almonds,  1  y2  lbs.  citron,  all  chopped  fine, 
1  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  1  cup  grated  cocoanut.  Bake  2  hours  in 
moderate  oven.  Lena  A.  S.  Blessing. 

White  Fruit  Cake.  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  cold 
water,  2>JA  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  vanilla,  1  lb. 
white  raisins,  1  lb.  of  almonds  blanched,  y2  lb.  candied  cherries,  y2 
lb.  pineapple,  1  cup  cocoanut,  *4  lb-  citron,  add  whites  of  7  eggs  last. 

Mrs.  Adam  Ringlep. 

Summer  Fruit  Cake.  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  1  cup 
sour  or  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2^  cups  flour,  sifted  4  times,  1 
cup  nuts,  black  or  English  walnuts,  1  box  raisins,  1  teaspoon  cloves 
and  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  allspice,  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Bake  40 
minutes.   Very  good.  Mrs.  Frank  Haight. 

Fruit  Cake.  2  cups  Karo  syrup,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup 
butter,  1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  each  cinnamon  and  cloves,  grated 
nutmeg,  4  eggs,  4^  cups  flour,  y>  cup  cornstarch,  3  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  1  cup  each  raisins  and  currants  well  floured.  Beat  but- 
ter, sugar  and  Karo  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  the  milk 
alternately  with  the  dry  ingredients  sifted  together  and  the  spice. 
Turn  in  the  fruit  last.    Bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

Blanche  Black  Collings,  Des  Moines,  Iowa. 

Ginger  Bread.  1  egg  well  beaten,  y>  cup  molasses,  y2  cup  su- 
gar, y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup  cold  tea,  1  even  teaspoon  soda,  y2  teaspoon 
ginger,  y2  tea  spoon  soda  well  beaten,  1  y2  cups  flour. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Gallagher. 

Ginger  Bread.  Yolks  of  2  eggs,  y2  cup  brown  sugar  y2  cup 
lard,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  boiling  water,  little  salt,  cinnamon,  cloves, 
ginger,  2  teaspoons  soda,  2y>  cups  flour.  Use  whites  of  eggs  for 
frosting.  Loah  B.  Tabor. 

Ginger  Bread.  y2  cup  molasses,  y2  cup  brown  sugar,  y2  cup 
butter,  iy2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  egg. 
Stir  together  and  add  2-3  cup  boiling  water.  Put  into  oven  imme- 
diately.  Bake  slowly.  Mrs.  C.  0.  Webster. 

New  Jersey  Ginger  Bread.  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  Karo 
syrup,  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup  lard,  2.y2  cups  flour,  y2  cup  cornstarch,  1 
tablespoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon,  cloves,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  sour 


Visit  Martensen's  Ladies'  Ready-to- Wear  Department 


106 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


milk.  Mix  the  sugar  and  syrup  and  place  on  stove,  as  it  warms  add 
the  butter  and  lard.  Add  dry  ingredients  sifted  together  and  last  the 
sour  milk.    Beat  well  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Blanche  Black  Collings,  Des  Moines,  Iowa. 

Ginger  Bread.  i  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  %  cup  sugar,  I 
cup  butter,  i  cup  buttermilk,  i  egg,  2  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in 
hot  water,  i  tea  spoon  ginger.  Stir  in  flour  till  of  the  consistency  of 
cake.    Bake  y2  hour  in  a  dripping  pan.  .  Haiti 'e  Miller. 

Ginger  Cake.  i  cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  2-3 
cup  milk,  3  eggs,  heaping  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon 
and  cloves  and  1  tablespoon  ginger,  3  cups  flour  or  a  little  more  if  it 
seems  too  soft,  1  cup  seeded  raisins  and  y2  cup  nuts  if  liked.  Beat 
a  long  time.  Bake  in  dripping  pan  in  slow  oven  and  ice  with  boiled 
icing.    Good  keeper.  Mrs.  Elmer  Crane. 

Frosted  Creams.    1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  ]/2  cup  butter, 

y2  cup  lard,  1  cup  hot  water  with  3  teaspoons  of  soda,  yolks  of  2 
eggs  well  beaten  and  use  whites  for  frosting.    Mrs.  C.  E.  Til  ton. 

Roll  Jelly  Cake.  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  3  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately, 3  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cream 
tartar,  sift  with  flour  and  bake  in  long  cake  pan.  Spread  with  jelly 
when  done  and  wrap  in  napkin.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Klemma. 

Roll  Jelly  Cake.  4  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt ;  spread  this  on  a  long  tin.  As  soon  as 
baked  turn  from  the  tin,  flavor  your  jelly  and  spread  over  the  cake 
and  roll  up  immediately.  Mrs.  Geo.  L.  Mitchell. 

Jelly  Roll  Cake.  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  hot  water, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  cup  flour,  flavoring.  Beat  yolks,  add 
sugar  and  hot  water.  Then  the  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder. 
Lastly  add  beaten  whites  and  flavoring.  Bake  in  hot  oven.  When 
done  turn  out  upon  a  cloth  previously  sprinkled  with  powdered  su- 
gar.   Spread  jelly  on  cake  and  roll  up  immediately  with  the  cloth. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Staman,  El  wood,  Iowa. 

Roll  Jelly  Cake.  4  eggs  well  beaten  separately,  1  cup  sugar,  1 
cup  flour,  1  tea  spoon  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  water,  1  scant 
teaspoon  salt.  While  cake  is  baking  spread  cloth  on  molding  board 
and  as  soon  as  cake  comes  out  of  oven  turn  over  on  cloth,  spread  with 
jelly  and  roll  quickly.  Mrs.  Josiah  Walker. 


F.  S.  Haight,  Confectionery  and  Bakery. 


Subscription  Agency,  "Nasby,"  136  Main  Street 


107 


Nut  Cake.  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  i  cup  milk,  whites  of 
7  eggs>  3  CUPS  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  2  cups  of  hick- 
ory nuts.  Mrs.  Fred  Young. 

Nut  Cake.  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  2-3  cup  butter,  3  cups 
flour,  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  nut  kernels  chopped 
fine.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Stewart  Sloane. 

Nut  Cake.  2  cups  sugar,  2-3  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  nuts,  chopped  fine. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Tilton. 

Walnut  Cake.  1  z/2  cups  sugar,  T/2  cup  butter,  cup  milk,  2 
cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  chopped  English  wal- 
nuts.  Add  whites  of  4  eggs  well  beaten. 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Gohlman. 

Brown  Sugar  Nut  Cake.  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  2  eggs, 
Yi  cup  milk,  y2  cup  nut  meats,  1 cups  flour,  1  y2  teaspoon  baking 
powder  (rounding),  a  cup  of  chopped  dates  makes  a  delicious  addi- 
tion, y2  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Cream  sugar  and  but- 
ter, add  beaten  eggs,  sift  flour,  baking  powder,  spices,  three  times, 
add  alternately  with  the  milk,  add  nuts  and  dates  with  flour. 

Mrs.  Ray  Burrows. 

Orange  Cake.  2  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  2y2  cups  flour 
(Swansdown),  y2  cup  cold  water,  2  small  cups  sugar,  5  eggs,  1 
orange,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Beat  the  whites  of  3  and  the 
yolks  of  5  eggs  separately.  Stir  to  a  cream  the  sugar  and  butter  and 
add  yolks  of  eggs,  water  and  flour  in  which  baking  powder  has  been 
sifted,  the  grated  rind  of  orange  and  the  juice  (reserving  2  table- 
spoons) and  lastly  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  which  have  been  beaten  dry. 
Bake  in  two  square  tins  and  put  together  with  an  icing,  made  of 
whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff,  2  small  cups  of  sugar  and  the  2  table- 
spoons of  orange  juice  reserved. 

Orange  Cake.  2  cups  sugar,  y>  cup  butter,  y2  cup  cold  water, 
4  whites  of  eggs  and  5  yolks,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  beaten  yolks  then  the  flour 
and  baking  powder,  then  water  and  then  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Then  take  the  grated  rind,  juice  of  one  large  orange  or  2  small  ones 
excepting  about  2  tablespoons  save  for  frosting.  Bake  in  layers. 
Frosting — Whites  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  orange  juice,  6  table- 
spoons sugar.  Mrs.  Elsie  Miller. 


The  Hoover  Suction  Sweeper  at  Martensen's 


108    Martensen's  are  originators  of  better  quality  at  lower  prices 


Prune  Cake.  Mix  i  cups  sugar,  3  tablespoons  melted  but- 
ter, 2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  2  cups  mashed 
prunes,  2  cups  sifted  flour,  and  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  flour.  Mix  in 
order  and  bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  George  M.  Wendell. 

Prune  Cake.  3  eggs  (save  whites  for  frosting),  y2  cup  butter, 
1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  prunes  cooked  and  chopped,  y2  cup  juice,  2  cups 
flour,  1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  cloves  and  soda.  Bake  in  layers. 

Mrs.  Hannah  Glaser. 

Prune  Cream  Cake.  Cream  y2  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar, 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  y2  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der and  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  2  layers.  Filling — 
Boil  30  prunes,  chop  fine,  add  whites  of  3  well  beaten  eggs,  y2  cup 
powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Spread  on  cake  and  place  in 
oven  a  minute  to  brown.  Mrs.  Geo.  Cooper,  Sr. 

Pork  Cake.  1  pound  fat  salt  pork,  chopped  fine,  pour  over 
this  1  pint  boiling  coffee,  dissolve  a  tablespoon  soda  and  mix  with  1 
cup  of  molasses,  add  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinna- 
mon, cloves,  allspice,  black  pepper  and  ginger,  y2  ounce  of  mace,  and 
flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  you  can  stir,  add  1  pound  each  of  raisins, 
currants,  citron,  and  lemon  and  orange  peel  mixed.   Bake  two  hours. 

Miss  Laura  E.  Butterworth. 

Sour  Cream  Cake  with  Spices.  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  thick  sour 
cream.  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  flour,  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  tea- 
spoon cloves,  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  raisins  chopped,  2  eggs  beaten 
light.   Bake  in  dripping  pan.  Grace  Crane  Keck. 

Spice  Cake.     1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sour  milk,  3  scant 

cups  flour,  3  eggs,  1  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  nutmeg, 
cinnamon  and  allspice,  1  cup  raisins,  y2  cup  nuts.     Ella  Mitchell. 

Spice  Cake.  1  <:up  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  %  CUP  nrilk, 
1  square  bitter  chocolate,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  cloves, 
y2  teaspoon  nutmeg,  y2  cup  raisins,  y2  cup  chopped  nuts,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  two  cups  flour. 

Miss  Ida  Skola,  Chicago,  111. 
Spice  Cake.    2  egg  yolks  (whites  for  top),  y>  cup  butter,  y2 
cup  sour  milk,  y>  cup  molasses,  iy2  cups  flour,  1  cup  raisins  chopped 
fine,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves. 

Louise  Meyers. 


See  Mann  the  Jeweler  for  Cut  Glass  and  China 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Vanilla  Extract 


109 


Dark  Cake,  i  cup  sugar,  cup  butter  (half  butter  and  lard), 
2  eggs,  i  cup  sour  milk,  i  teaspoon  soda,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
2  cups  flour,  i  cup  raisins,  i  cup  walnuts,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  allspice.  Lura  Hicks. 

Spice  Cake,  i  y2  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  lard,  y2  cup  butter,  3  eggs 
well  beaten,  3  teaspoons  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  each  cloves  and  nut- 
meg, 1  cup  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  heaping  cups  flour,  1  cup 
fruit  if  desired,  salt.  Mrs.  H.  P.  Morse. 

Boiled  Raisin  Cake.  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  1  scant  teaspoon 
soda,  1  teaspoon  cloves  and  cinnamon,  1 Ya  cups  flour,  1  cup  stewed 
raisins.    Bake  in  layers.  Mrs.  John  Dunlap. 

Cake.  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  heaped  full  of  butter, 
1  cup  of  milk  or  water,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  cups  flour.  Di- 
vide and  put  in  y2  teaspoon  cloves  and  one  of  cinnamon.  Raisins 
between.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Gallagher. 

Water  Cake.  1  cup  water,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  lard 
(fresh),  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 

1  tablespoon  chocolate,  1  cup  raisins,  2  pieces  stale  cake ;  boil  3  min- 
utes, cool  and  add  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  water,  and  enough 
flour  to  make  batter  as  in  ordinary  layer  cake.  Put  together  with 
nut  filling  and  frost  with  boiled  icing.       Mrs.  Gordon  Kingsley. 

Boiled  Raisin  Cake.  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
Y\  cup  sour  milk,  1  scant  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg,  y2  teaspoon  cloves,  ij4  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  1  cup  stewed  raisins.  Mrs.  C.  J.  Gohlman. 

Molasses  Cake.  1  cup  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  molasses,  y2  cup 
butter,  2  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda.  Filling — 1 
pint  milk,  y2  cup  sugar,  1  cup  raisins ;  cook  all  together  till  raisins 
are  tender,  then  add  1  egg  and  2  tablespoons  of  corn  starch. 

Blanche  Lockwood. 

Quaker  Cake.    1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  sour  milk, 

2  eggs,  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
allspice,  y2  cup  raisins,  y2  cup  nut  meats ;  bake  in  two  layers.  Fill- 
ing and  Frosting — iy2  cups  sugar,  4  tablespoons  water,  boil  until  it 
threads  and  add  to  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg.  Add  y2  cup  raisins 
and  y2  cup  nut  meats.  Mrs.  M.  Knittle. 


American  Lady  Corsets  at  Martensen's 


110 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Graham  Cracker  Cake,  i  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  %  CUP 
sweet  milk,  3  yolks  of  eggs,  26  rolled  graham  crackers  (no  flour), 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  tea  spoon  vanilla ;  add  last  whites  well 
beaten.  Filling  and  Top — 2  cups  pulverized  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  6 
tablespoons  milk;  stir  together  for  ten  minutes.    (Extra  good.) 

Louise  Meyer. 

Marble  Cake.  Light  part :  y2  cup  butter,  1  y2  cups  sugar,  y2 
cup  milk,  2y2  cups  flour,  4  whites  of  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, 2  tablespoons  cocoanut.  Dark  part:  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup 
molasses,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  y2  cup  sour  milk,  y2 
teaspoon  soda,  4  yolks  eggs,  1  whole  egg,  y2  teaspoon  cloves,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  y2  cup  chopped  raisins,  y2  cup  chopped  nut  meats. 
Bake  in  long  pans,  putting  spoon  of  light  then  dark  till  all  is  used. 
Ice,  cut  in  blocks.   This  makes  a  very  large  cake. 

Hattie  Anderson,  Elwood,  Iowa. 

Spice  Cake.  1  cup  brown  sugar,  3  tablespoons  butter  (melt- 
ed), 1  cup  sour  milk,  1  egg,  1  square  chocolate  (melted),  a  pinch  of 
salt,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  dash  of  nutmeg,  1  tea- 
spoon soda,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

Mrs.  L.  W.  Westby,  Beach,  N.  D. 

Molasses  Cake.  y2  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  y2  cup  molasses,  1  cup 
sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon 
cloves  and  2  cups  flour.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  George  M.  Wendell. 

White  Cake.  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1 
cup  butter,  whites  5  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavor. 

Mrs.  Ben  F.  Prussia. 

White  Cake.  Cream  y2  cup  butter  with  1  y2  cups  sugar,  add  1 
cup  milk,  2y>  cups  flour,  pinch  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
flavor  to  taste.  Sift  baking  powder  and  salt  with  flour.  Beat  very 
thoroughly.  Then  fold  in  well  beaten  whites  of  5  eggs.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Black,  Youngstown,  Ohio. 

Layer  Cake.  1  cup  sugar,  1  large  cup  flour,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  2  eggs  beaten  very  light  but  not  separated, 
grated  rind  of  lemon,  pinch  salt ;  beat  this  all  together,  then  add  y2 
cup  of  milk  and  one  good  teaspoon  butter  boiling  hot.  Bake  in  two 
layers.  Carrie  Belden  Hoag,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 


Cook  on  a  Monarch  Malleable  Range — See  Trout  and  Matthias 


All  kinds  of  Pipes— all  prices— "Nasby" 


111 


One  Egg  Cake.  2-3  cup  sugar,  scant  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup 
sweet  milk,  1  y2  cups  flour,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla  or  lemon.  Helen  Russell. 

Quick  Cake.  Put  whites  of  2  eggs  in  cup,  add  butter  to  make 
y2  glass,  fill  cup  with  water,  1  cup  sugar,  1  y2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder.    Put  all  together,  beat  thoroughly  and  bake. 

Quick  Cake.  y±  cup  melted  butter,  2  unbeaten  eggs ;  put  these 
in  a  cup,  fill  remainder  of  cup  with  sweet  milk.  Have  ready  1  large 
cup  flour  and  1  scant  cup  sugar.  Sift  these  several  times  with  1 
heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Put  all  together  in  a  mixing  bowl 
and  beat  thoroughly.  Flavor.  Best  results  from  cake  are  obtained 
by  allowing  the  butter  to  melt  or  soften  slowly,  rather  than  putting 
it  over  a  brisk  fire.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Black,  Youngstown,  Ohio. 

White  Cake.  2  cups  flour,  2  cups  sugar,  2-3  cup  butter,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  whites  of  7  eggs,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon 
flavoring.  Mrs.  Elmer  Crane. 

White  Cake.  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  scant  cup 
milk,  1  y2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  3  eggs. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  Mrs.  Willis  A.  Scott. 

White  Cake.  4  rounding  tablespoons  butter,  2  cups  granulated 
sugar,  sift  3  times;  1  cup  ice  water,  3  cups  flour  (heaping)  sifted  3 
times,  3  rounded  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  6  eggs,  salt,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  flour  and  water  al- 
ternately. Save  y2  cup  flour  with  baking  powder  to  fold  in  after  eggs ; 
pinch  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  very  slowly.  When  done 
cover  with  cloth  for  20  minutes.  This  is  very  good  baked  in  a  long 
loaf  and  white  frosting  and  bitter  chocolate  spread  over  it. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Hughes,  Beach,  N.  D. 

Cream  Almond  Cake.  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour, 
$y2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2-3  cup  water,  whites  4  eggs,  y2  tea- 
spoon almond  flavoring.  Imogene  Mitchell. 

White  Cake.  yA  cup  butter,  ij£  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2y2 
cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  3  eggs. 

Mrs.  H.  Geisler. 
White  Cake.    1  y2  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  milk, 
2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  3  eggs,  flavor. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Goodenow. 

The  Latest  in  the  Millinery  Line — Martensen's 


112    Martensen's  are  originators  of  better  quality  at  lower  prices 


Union  Cake.  Whites  of  6  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  ^ 
cup  sweet  milk,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  R.  S.  Grant. 

Almond  Sticks.  1  pound  brown  sugar,  4  eggs,  2  cups  flour,  1 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  cloves,  2j4  ounces  citron,  pound 
almonds.  Beat  sugar  and  eggs  fifteen  minutes,  add  flour,  spices, 
citron  and  shaved  almonds.  Put  mixture  in  buttered  and  floured 
tins  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  When  partially  cold,  cut  in  strips 
in  pan.  Do  not  remove  from  pans  until  cold.  Will  keep  fresh  for 
some  time.  Mrs.  Evelyn  Westby,  Beach,  N.  D. 

Mocha  Balls.    Cut  white  cake  which  should  be  a  day  old  into 

squares,  spread  with  an  icing  made  of  2  cups  powdered  sugar  and 
y2  cup  butter,  1  tablespoon  vanilla  creamed  until  smooth  enough  to 
spread ;  roll  in  chopped  almonds  that  have  been  slightly  browned,  or 
peanuts  may  be  used.  Marion  Jane  Kucheman. 


Purest  Spices,  Flavors,  and  Fruit  Colors — Staack  &  Luckiesh 


8 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Silver  Polish 


115 


FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS. 


Boiled  Frosting.  2-3  cup  granulated  sugar  and  white  of  1  egg. 
Put  sugar  in  granite  pan  covered  with  enough  cold  water  to  dis- 
solve and  set  on  top  of  stove.  Cover  while  cooking.  Let  boil  until 
it  threads,  and  take  off  at  once.  When  cooled  a  little,  pour  over  the 
beaten  white  of  egg  and  stir  a  little  with  fork.  Then  put  in  your 
Dover  egg  beater,  after  adding  flavoring  to  suit,  and  beat  until 
smooth  and  the  proper  consistency  to  spread. 

Miss  Laura  E.  Butterworth. 

Caramel  Filling.  1  cup  sugar  browned  in  a  skillet,  add  1  cup 
boiling  water.  Mix  1  egg,  2  tablespoons  flour,  small  piece  of  butter, 
and  stir  this  in  the  sugar  and  water,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Miss  Ida  Simpson. 

Raisin  Filling  for  Cake.  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  y2  cup  sugar, 
1  tablespoon  flour,      cup  water,  juice  of  1  lemon.    Boil  till  thick. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Anderson. 

Filling  for  Layer  Cake.  1  cup  milk  and  y2  cup  sugar  boiled 
together ;  when  boiling  add  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  wet  with  a  little 
milk  and  1  egg  well  beaten.  Let  this  cook,  then  add  piece  of  butter 
size  of  a  hickorynut  and  flavor  with  vanilla  and  burnt  sugar  (a  tea- 
spoonful.)  Mrs.  H.  B.  Sanborn. 

Frosting.  Moisten  a  cup  of  pulverized  sugar  with  a  little 
sweet  milk  and  spread  on  cake  while  hot. 

Maple  Sugar  Icing.  Melt  1  cup  maple  sugar  in  T/2  cup  water ; 
boil  until  it  grains,  then  beat  in  the  white  of  1  egg  slightly  beaten ; 
stir  to  smooth  cream  and  spread  while  warm. 

Frosting  Without  Eggs.  %  cup  sugar,  ]/2  cup  milk,  y2  tea- 
spoon butter,  simmer  down  till  a  little  will  crisp  in  water ;  add  vanilla. 
Set  the  tin  in  another  pan  of  water,  stirring  it  till  it  is  stiff  enough 


Richelieu  Brand  Pure  Food  Products — J.  A.  Wright  &  Son 


116 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


to  put  on  your  cake.  Melted  chocolate  can  afterward  be  put  on  top 
of  this,  or  melted  chocolate  can  be  added  to  it  before  cooling,  if 
chocolate  frosting  is  wanted. 

Caramel  Filling  and  Icing.  2  cups  brown  sugar,  i  cup  cream 
or  milk,  i  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  tablespoons  butter.  Boil  till  ropy. 
Chopped  walnut  meats  put  in  make  it  very  nice. 

Mrs.  G.  C.  Nickerson. 

Maple  Icing.  2-3  cup  maple  syrup,  1  small  cup  sugar.  Boil 
until  quite  stiff  and  stir  into  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 

Mrs.  Elmer  Crane. 

Lemon  Jelly  Filling.  1  cup  sugar,  the  juice  of  1  large  lemon, 
1  teaspoon  butter,  2  eggs  beaten  light ;  mix  well.  Cool  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.    Cook  in  double  boiler. 

Filling.  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  3  grated  apples  and  1  lemon.  Boil 
till  it  thickens,  let  it  cool  before  spreading. 

Hickory  Nut  Filling.  1  cup  thick  sour  cream,  1  cup  sugar,  1 
cup  hickory  nut  meats  chopped  fine.  Boil  until  it  clears,  when  it  is 
ready  for  use. 

Filling.  Whites  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  2  tablespoons  thick  sour 
cream,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Add  1  pound  blanched  al- 
monds, chopped  fine. 

Marshmallow  Filling.  2  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  water,  whites  of  2 
eggs,  boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads,  mix  stiff  with  1  pound  of 
marshmallows  cut  up  fine. 

Chocolate  Filling.  Yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  y2  teacup 
sweet  milk,  1  pint  of  granulated  sugar,  y>  cup  grated  chocolate,  but- 
ter size  of  a  walnut  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cook  about  five  min- 
utes, then  beat  until  cool  enough  to  put  between  cake  layers  and  on 
top.  Mrs.  H.  B.  Hubbell. 

Orange  Filling.  y2  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  eggs  well 
beaten,  y>  grated  rind  of  orange,  juice  of  2  oranges,  butter  size  of 
walnut.  Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  other  ingredients  in  order  given, 
cook  10  minutes  in  double  boiler,  stir  all  the  time.  Cool  before 
spreading. 


Before  you  build  see  The  Hand-Fischer  Lumber  Co. 


Only  News  Depot  in  City  "Nasby,"  136  Main  Street 


117 


Orange  Frosting.  I  tablespoon  orange  juice,  I  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  grated  rind  of  orange,  egg  yolk,  confectioners  sugar. 
Add  rind  to  fruit  juice,  let  stand  fifteen  minutes,  strain  and  add 
gradually  2  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Stir  in  sugar  until  right 
consistency  to  spread. 

Apple  Frosting.  White  of  1  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  1  cup 
sugar,  1  large  apple,  peel  and  grate,  add  to  egg  and  sugar ;  beat  all 
together  with  silver  fork  until  thick.  It  will  look  like  cream  and 
the  taste  will  surprise  you.  Mrs.  A.  S.  Butterworth. 

Cocoa  Frosting.  2  teaspoons  cocoa,  6  teaspoons  water  and 
small  lump  butter.  Cook  until  thick  then  stir  in  powdered  sugar  un- 
til the  consitency  of  cream.  Mrs.  Geo.  M.  Wendell. 

Pineapple  Filling  for  Cakes.  y2  pineapple  grated,  24  cup  su- 
gar, yolks  2  eggs,  1  y2  teaspoons  corn  starch,  1  y2  tablespoons  butter. 
Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly,  spread  while  hot. 

Jennie  Squiers  Mitchell. 

Chocolate  Icing.  3  tablespoons  cocoa,  1  teaspoon  butter,  6 
tablespoons  cream  or  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  vanilla.  Put 
all  together  in  a  sauce  pan  and  cook  until  a  little  dropped  in  cold 
water  will  thicken  slightly.  Remove  from  fire  and  beat  until  the 
right  consistency.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Black,  Youngstown,  Ohio. 

Raisin  Filling.  1  cup  water,  2-3  cup  sugar,  %  CUP  white  Karo 
syrup,  1  egg,  1  cup  raisins.  Seed  and  chop  raisins,  add  sugar,  syrup 
and  water,  cook  until  raisins  are  soft.  Put  over  pan  of  water  and 
add  egg  slightly  beaten.  Cook  till  consistency  of  cream.  Flavor 
with  lemon.   Cool  before  using.  Minnie  Theden. 

Cocoa  Fudge  Frosting.  To  3  teaspoons  hot  strong  black  cof- 
fee, 2  teaspoons  cocoa  add  small  lump  butter  and  enough  confection- 
ery sugar  to  thicken,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Agnes  Staack. 

Caramel  Frosting.  2  cups  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  y>  cup 
cream  or  milk.  Boil  until  it  strings,  beat  until  cool,  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Agnes  Staack. 

Butter  Frosting.  1  cup  confectioners  sugar,  2  tablespoons  but- 
ter, 1  tablespoon  milk  or  cream,  1  tablespoon  either  lemon  or  orange 
juice ;  beat  until  thick.  Agnes  Staack. 


"Treadeasy"  Shoe  for  Women  at  Lovelee's  Corner  Shoe  Store 


118  Linens !  yes  you  get  better  linens  at  Martensen's 


Icing  from  Egg  Yolks,  i  cup  sugar,  2  egg  yolks,  Yi  cup  water, 
cook  water  and  sugar  together  until  they  will  thread.  Pour  in  the 
yolks  slowly.  When  well  mixed,  add  ]/i  cup  broken  nut  meats,  a 
grating  of  nutmeg,  a  pinch  of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  y2  cup  finely 
cut  raisins,  a  little  vanilla  and  citron.  Beat  until  ready  to  spread  on 
cake.  Chocolate  Icing : — As  soon  as  the  syrup  is  cooked,  drop  into 
it  (do  not  stir),  1  square  of  Baker's  chocolate.  Pour  into  yolks  and 
beat  until  ready  to  spread  on  cake.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Add  nuts 
if  liked. 


Send  your  soiled  dresses  to  Sanner  &  Gaucher 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Cake  Colorings 


121 


COOKIES  AND  DOUGHNUTS. 


Cookies.  Stir  cooky  dough  with  a  large  spoon  until  quite  stiff 
and  set  on  ice  for  a  couple  of  hours  or  more  before  rolling  out  to 
bake.  Oftentimes  have  mixed  them  in  the  evening  and  baked  next 
morning.   Try  it.  Mrs.  B.  A.  Spencer. 

Cookies.  2  cups  light  brown  sugar,  i  cup  butter  and  lard 
mixed,  i  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  6  tablespoons  cold  water,  i  egg. 
Use  flour  to  make  quite  a  stiff  dough.  Mrs.  E.  K.  Wesner. 

Cookies.  (Crisp.)  i  heaping  cup  sugar,  i  even  cup  of  short- 
ening, 3  whole  eggs  well  beaten,  i  level  teaspoon  soda,  3  tablespoons 
milk  or  water,  flavor  to  suit  taste,  flour  enough  to  roll  out ;  roll  thin 
and  sprinkle  sugar  over.    Cut  out  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Belden. 

Cookies.  2  cups  sugar,  ^4  cups  butter,  2  eggs,  4  tablespoons 
sour  milk,  y^  teaspoon  soda ;  enough  flour  to  roll  very  thin,  spread 
yolk  of  egg  on  top  and  a  little  sugar  and  some  nuts,  or  a  raisin. 

Mrs.  Clara  Lomask. 

Cookies.    2l/2  cups  flour,  add  1-3  teaspoon  soda  to  flour,  rub 
cup  butter  into  flour,  2  beaten  eggs  and  1  cup  of  sugar  added  to 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  mix  all  together.  Fine. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  Hansen. 

Sugar  Cookies..    2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  buttermilk, 

2  eggs,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  soda,  flour 
enough  to  roll.   This  makes  3^  dozen.       Mrs.  Mamie  Hayland. 

White  Cookies.    2  cups  sugar,  1  y2  cups  butter  and  lard  mixed, 

3  egg's>  V*  cup  sweet  milk,  %  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  1  quart  flour.    Flavor  to  taste.  Nettie  Bowling. 

Peanut  Cookies.  Cream  yA  cup  butter  and  y2  cup  sugar,  add 
2  tablespoons  milk,  sift  3  times  1  cup  flour,  yA  teaspoon  salt  and  1 
level  teaspoon  baking  powder,  add      cup  peanuts. 

Mrs.  McQuown. 


For  furniture  see  Lane  Furniture  Co. 


122 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Mother  B.  Cookies.  2  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  ^4  CUP  butter,  pinch 
salt,  1  teaspoon  soda  in  y>  cup  milk,  add  enough  flour  to  make  soft 
dough.  Elizabeth  Klemma. 

Sugar  Cookies.  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sweet  cream, 
2  eggs,  2  heaping  tea  spoons  baking  powder,  nutmeg  to  taste ;  mix 
rather  soft,  cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  cream,  then  break  in 
eggs,  add  flour  into  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted  well, 
which  will  be  about  3  or  4  cups.   Bake  in  very  hot  oven  quickly. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Irwin. 

Cookies.  iy2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  beat  well  to- 
gether, 1  cup  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda,  flour  enough  to  stir  stiff, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  set  on  ice  from  3  to  12  hours,  roll 
and  bake.  Mrs.  B.  A.  Spencer. 

Sour  Cream  Cookies.  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  lard,  1  cup  thick 
sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  lemon  mixed, 
y2  teaspoon  salt,  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der in  flour  enough  to  make  not  too  stiff  dough,  sprinkle  sugar  on 
top  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  Mrs.  John  Campbell. 

Sour  Cream  Cookies.  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter  and  lard 
mixed,  1  cup  thick  sour  cream  into  which  dissolve  1  teaspoon  baking 
soda;  3  eggs  (add  yolks  to  batter  and  beat  whites  and  add  last), 
about  ^y2  cups  flour,  (this  varies  as  sometimes  your  cream  may  be 
thicker),  enough  so  you  can  roll  out  very  soft,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder  in  flour.  Flavor  with  grated  nutmeg  and  a  little  vanilla. 
Chicken  fat  makes  excellent  shortening  for  cookies. 

Ida  Hinman  Black. 

Cookies.  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup  sour  cream,  y2  cup 
butter,  1  egg,  enough  soda  to  sweeten  the  cream,  a  little  nutmeg,  mix 
not  too  stiff.  Mrs.  B.  Webster. 

Sour  Cream  Cookies.  3  eggs  beaten  until  light,  add  2  cups  of 
sugar,  %  cuP  butter  and  lard,  1  cup  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda,  and 
one  tablespoon  ginger;  flour  to  mix.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Gregory. 

Cookies.  2  cups  brown  sugar,  2-3  cups  butter,  1  egg,  y2  cup 
cold  water,  1  teaspoon  soda  in  water,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1 
cup  cocoanut ;  mix  stiff  and  drop  with  spoon.  Lura  Hicks. 


Banghart's  Store  for  Men 


Let  Me  send  in  those  Subscriptions,  "Nasby"  123 


Brownies.  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter  or  less,  54  cup  flour, 
2  eggs,  2  squares  chocolate,  y2  cup  nuts,  vanilla.  Melt  chocolate, 
cream  sugar  and  butter,  beat  eggs  together  thoroughly,  add  flour  and 
eggs  alternately,  add  chocolate  and  nuts  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  over  twenty  minutes.       Marion  Jane  Kucheman. 

Rocks.  i  cup  sugar,  y>  cup  each  butter  and  lard,  2  eggs,  i 
small  teaspoon  soda,  4  tablespoons  sour  milk,  4  cups  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  square  chocolate,  1  cup  rais- 
ins, 1  cup  chopped  nuts.  Mildred  Tabor. 

Brownies.  2  cups  brown  sugar,  2  cups  graham  flour,  2  cups 
white  flour,  2  eggs,  1  cup  lard  (melted),  2  tablespoons  sour  milk,  1 
teaspoon  soda,  1  dessertspoon  cinnamon.  Mix  all  together  and  roll 
a  little  thinner  than  for  ordinary  cookies.  Cut  out  and  drop  a  tea- 
spoon of  the  following  filling  on  each  one,  and  cover  with  another. 
Bake  in  quick  oven.  Filling: — 1  pound  dates  or  figs  cut  fine,  y2 
cup  cold  water,  2  tablespoons  sugar.   Cook  until  smooth. 

Mrs.  Lewis  Wickzvire. 

Rocks.  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter  or  lard  melted,  2  eggs 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  hot  water,  %  cup  raisins,  3  cups  flour; 
mix  sugar,  butter  and  eggs  together,  add  cinnamon,  salt  and  vanilla, 
nuts  and  raisins,  then  water  and  soda  and  last,  flour  with  a  teaspoon 
baking  powder.   Drop  on  buttered  tins.      Mrs.  0.  C.  Kucheman. 

Chocolate  Drop  Cookies.  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  egg,  y2  cup 
melted  butter,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  2  squares  chocolate,  1  y2  cups  flour, 
y2  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  nuts,  y2  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mary  E.  Joiner. 

Cream  Puffs.  1  cup  water,  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  flour,  3  eggs. 
Put  the  butter  and  water  over  the  fire  and  when  boiling  briskly,  stir 
in  the  flour  and  beat  until  smooth.  Let  cool  and  add  eggs,  stirring 
them  in  one  at  a  time.  Drop  by  spoonsful  on  a  buttered  pan  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty  minutes.  Fill  with  whipped  cream 
or  custard.  Mrs.  Frank  Boyle,  Chicago,  111. 

Cream  Puffs.  Boil  with  a  large  cup  of  hot  water,  y2  teacup 
of  butter,  stirring  in  1  teacup  of  flour  during  the  boiling,  set  aside  to 
cool  and  when  cold  stir  in  4  well  beaten  eggs,  drop  on  tins  and  bake 


Fine  Millinery  at  The  Martin  Hat  Shop 


124    All  goods  are  sold  on  the  quality  value  basis  at  Martensen's 


in  a  fairly  hot  oven.  When  baked  fill  with  a  cream  made  by  beating 
together  3  tablespoons  flour,  1  egg  and  y2  teacup  or  more  of  sugar 
according  to  taste ;  stir  into  y2  pint  milk  while  boiling  and  flavor  to 
liking.  Mrs.  B.  D.  Hansen. 

Frosted  Creams.  1  cup  lard  and  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  mo- 
lasses, 1  cup  cold  water,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  each  soda, 
cinnamon,  ginger,  y2  teaspoon  cloves,  pinch  of  salt;  flour  enough 
to  roll  soft.  Mrs.  B.  J.  Kullmer. 

Frosted  Creams.  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  butter  (or  part  lard),  1 
cup  syrup,  2  eggs,  cup  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon, 
cloves,  ginger  and  nutmeg,  2  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  1  table- 
spoon vinegar,  add  flour  enough  to  mix  soft  and  roll  out  y2  inch 
thick.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  and  cover  with  boiled  frosting. 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Goldman. 

Date  Bars.  1  cup  sugar,  1  lb.  dates,  1  cup  flour,  3  eggs,  1 
cup  chopped  nuts,  salt,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Beat  yolks,  add 
sugar  and  stir  until  creamy.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  pinch  of 
salt  together,  add  nuts  and  dates  (coarsely  chopped),  add  to  yolks 
and  sugar,  add  beaten  whites  of  eggs  last  and  bake  in  sheets  in  mod- 
erate oven  about  30  minutes.  Cut  in  bars  while  hot  and  roll  in  pow- 
dered sugar  or  ice  with  orange  or  chocolate  icing  and  decorate  with 
nuts  or  stoned  dates.  Mrs.  Elmer  Crane. 


Fruit  Cookies.  1 T/2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  shortening,  2  eggs,  4 
tablespoons  sour  milk,  1  level  teaspoon  soda,  1  tablespoon  mixed 
spices,  1  cup  chopped  raisins.   Add  enough  flour  to  roll  out  soft. 

Mrs.  Lewis  Wickzvire. 

Fruit  Cookies.  Cream  1  cup  butter  and  1  %  cups  sugar,  3  eggs 
well  beaten,  1  level  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  1  y2  tablespoons  hot 
water,  iy2  cups  flour,  sifted  with  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  iV2  cups 
raisins,  add  iy2  cups  flour.  Drop  from  spoon  into  well  buttered 
pans.   Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Nettie  Boiding. 

Fruit  Cookies.  1  y2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  y2  cup  molasses, 
3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  currants,  1  tablespoon 
ginger,  1  of  cloves,  1  of  cinnamon,  same  of  allspice.  Flour  to  roll 
out  as  soft  as  can  be  cut.  Mrs.  D.  C.  Mishler. 


Majestic  and  Riverside  Range: 


Ringlep  Hardware  Co. 


Meet  me  at  Broxam  &  Hinckley's 


125 


Oatmeal  Drops.  I  cup  butter,  2  cups  oatmeal,  2  cups  flour,  I 
cup  sugar,  I  cup  chopped  raisins,  %  teaspoon  soda  in  flour,  6  table- 
spoons sweet  milk,  pinch  salt,  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Drop  on  greased 
pan.  Mrs.  D.  F.  Scheib. 

Oatmeal  Cookies.  2  eggs,  I  cup  sugar,  I  cup  butter  or  lard,  y2 
cup  raisins,  y2  cup  nuts,  2  cups  flour,  2  cups  oatmeal,  5  tablespoons 
sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
drop  on  buttered  pans  from  teaspoon  so  as  not  to  touch.  Bake  in 
quick  oven.  Mrs.  A.  W.  M alias. 

Oatmeal  Cookies.  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  shortening,  lard 
or  butter,  y2  cup  sour  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  cups  oatmeal,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  y2  cup  chopped  nuts. 

Mrs.  R.  S.  Grant. 

Oatmeal  Cookies.  1  cup  sugar,  }i  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1  cup 
molasses,  3  cups  flour,  2  cups  oat  meal,  1  teaspoon  soda  and  vanilla. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  well  beaten  eggs  and  vanilla. 
Stir  soda  in  molasses  and  add  to  mixture,  then  stir  in  oat  meal  and 
flour.    Drop  from  teaspoon  on  well  buttered  tins. 

Hattie  DePew. 

Oatmeal  Cookies.  1  cup  seeded  raisins  cooked,  put  enough  water 
on  them,  so  there  will  be  ^4  CUP  °f  water  when  done,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  shortening  (part  lard 
and  part  butter),  2  cups  oatmeal  (ground),  2  cups  flour,  pinch  of 
nutmeg.  Dissolve  soda  in  juice  where  the  raisins  were  cooked  and 
mix.   Drop  into  pan  with  a  teaspoon.  Helen  Morse. 

Oatmeal  Cakes.  1  cup  white  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  oat- 
meal, 1  cnp  grated  cocoanut,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
7  tablespoons  sour  milk,  2  cups  flour.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon  on 
buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  W.  W.  Benson. 

Ginger  Nuts.  ( Excellent. )  1  cup  molasses,  y2  cup  sugar,  y2 
cup  butter,  2y2  cups  flour,  1  cup  boiling  water  with  two  flat  teaspoons 
soda,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  ginger.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  molasses  and  other  ingredients ;  beat  eggs 
well  and  add  just  before  putting  in  oven.    Bake  in  jumble  tins. 

Mrs.  Thos.  Trout. 

Ginger  Cookies.  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  cup 
butter  and  lard,  2  teaspoons  soda,  2  teaspoons  ginger,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  y2  cup  sour  cream.  Margaret  McCarthy. 


Art  Goods  and  Stationery  at  Cundill's 


126 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Ginger  Cookies,  i  cup  brown  sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  i  cup 
butter  or  shortening,  i  egg,  y2  nutmeg,  i  teaspoon  cloves,  allspice 
and  cinnamon  and  lemon  extract,  i  tablespoon  ginger,  a  small  table- 
spoon soda  in  just  enough  hot  water  to  dissolve  it.  Make  a  real  stiff 
dough  and  roll  thin  and  bake.  Mrs.  Elsie  Miller. 

Ginger  Cookies,    i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  y>  cup  butter, 

2  eggs,  white  of  i  egg  for  frosting,  3  even  teaspoons  soda,  2  table- 
spoons sour  cream,  2  teaspoons  ginger,  y  cup  sour  milk.  Mix  as 
soft  as  can  be  handled.  Mrs.  I.  Macumber. 

Grape  Nut  Cookies.  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  J/2  cup  butter,  3  table- 
spoons sour  milk,  1  level  teaspoon  soda,  y±  nutmeg  grated,  1  cup 
grape  nuts.  Mix  stiff.  Roll,  sprinkle  evenly  with  grape  nuts.  Bake 
in  medium  oven.  Mrs.  David  Wright. 

Date  Kisses.  1  lb.  dates  and  1  cup  walnut  meats  chopped.  To 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  add  1  big  cup  powdered  sugar, 
add  dates,  nuts,  vanilla  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  slowly  till  deli- 
cate brown.  Mrs.  Elmer  Crane. 

Walnut  Drops.  3  eggs,  1  lb.  powdered  sugar,  2  cups  walnuts, 
4  heaping  tablespoons  flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Jam  Tartlets.  2  cups  flour,  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
y2  teaspoon  salt,  *4  CUP  butter,  y2  cup  milk.  Knead  and  roll  into  a 
sheet  incn  thick,  and  cut  into  4  inch  squares.  Put  1  tablespoon  of 
jam  on  the  center  of  each  square,  fold  the  points  of  dough  to  meet 
in  the  center,  brush  with  slightly  beaten  white  of  egg,  dredge  with 
sugar,  and  bake  about  15  minutes.    Serve  hot  with  tea  or  cocoa. 

Ida  E.  Black. 

Marguerites.  For  1  box  of  wafers,  2  cups  granulated  sugar, 
boil  till  it  threads,  turn  into  the  beaten  whites  of  2  egg,  add  a  cup 
blanched  chopped  almonds  and  vanilla ;  spread  on  wafers  and  brown 
lightly  in  a  quick  oven.      Mrs.  G.  M.  Johnson,  Marshalltown,  la. 

Nut  Wafers.  1  cup  nut  meats,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  2  eggs,  3 
tablespoons  flour,  pinch  of  salt  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Spread 
thinly  on  a  good  sized  cookie  pan  and  bake  rather  quickly. 

Hickory  Nut  Cookies.  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  y2  cup  sour 
cream,  4  cups  flour,  3  eggs,  small  teaspoon  soda,  large  cup  of  nuts. 
 Mrs.  Will  Cundill. 

Home  Killed  Beef  a  Specialty  at  Lang's 


Shell  Belts— "Nasby,"  136  Main  Street 


127 


Filled  Cookies.  2^/2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  lard,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  roll  out.  Filling — 1  cup 
chopped  raisins,  2  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  water,  2  tablespoons  flour, 
cook  about  1 5  minutes.  Roll  the  cookies  out  thin,  cover  with  filling 
and  place  another  cooky  on  top.    Bake  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Oce  Hansen. 

A  Tea  Trifle.  On  a  round,  thin  cracker  put  a  marshmallow, 
on  that  put  a  drop  of  peanut  butter.  Put  in  a  hot  oven  for  a  min- 
ute or  two,  until  the  marshmallow  melts.  Serve  with  tea  or  choco- 
late. Mrs.  Mamie  Hayland,  Cedar  Rapids. 

Surprise  Cookies.  2-3  cup  butter,  1  y^  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  sour 
milk,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  2  eggs,  3  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Filling. — 1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  water,  3  tablespoons  flour,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  cup  chopped  nuts,  1  cup  raisins  or  figs.  Roll  dough  very 
thin  and  use  small  cookie  cutter.  Place  filling  between  two  cookies 
and  press  edges  lightly  together.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Loa  B.  Tabor. 

Doughnuts.  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1  y2  cups  sweet  milk,  3  or  4 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  flour  to  roll  out  as  soft  as  you  can,  2  scant 
teaspoons  soda  in  milk,  4  scant  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar  in  flour; 
flavor.  Mrs.  G.  L.  Johnson 

Doughnuts.  2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  y2  cups  sweet  milk,  5  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  sifted  with  quart  flour,  add  nutmeg  or 
any  flavor  desired,  mix,  roll  out  and  let  stand  2  hours  before  frying. 
This  is  very  good  and  does  not  get  so  greasy.     Mrs.  C.  E.  Tilton. 

Fried  Cakes.  1  egg  beaten  thoroughly,  1  cup  buttermilk,  1 
cup  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,flour  enough 
to  roll  soft.  Mrs.  E.  J.  Kullmer. 

Doughnuts.  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  sugar  and  1  table- 
spoon butter  creamed  together,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  cup  sour  milk, 
y2  teaspoon  soda.  Add  enough  flour  to  make  soft  dough  to  roll; 
cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Sweet  milk  may  be  used  with  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Have  the  fat  just  ready  to  smoke  and  bake  imme- 
diately. Mrs.  W .  E.  Richardson. 

Doughnuts.  1  y2  coffee  cups  sugar,  1  cup  coffee,  cup  milk,  3 
eggsc,  1  rounded  teaspoon  butter,  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der. Add  flour  and  mix  as  soft  as  can  be  handled.  Salt  and  flavor 
to  taste.   Drop  in  hot  lard.  Hattie  Miller. 


A.  M.  Avery  for  Drugs,  Paints,  Oils,  Etc. 


128 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


Fried  Cakes.  y2  cup  sour  cream,  i  cup  sour  milk,  i  teaspoon 
soda  in  milk,  i  egg,  i  cup  sugar,  i  teaspoon  lemon,  a  bit  of  nutmeg 
and  salt,  flour  enough  for  soft  dough,  roll  out,  cut  with  doughnut 
cutter  and  fry  in  deep  fat  until  a  delicate  brown.    This  recipe  will 


Cream  Doughnuts.  2  cups  sour  cream,  i  y2  cups  sugar,  y2  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  level  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  cream,  2  eggs,  i  tea- 


Raised  Doughnuts,  i  cup  sugar,  \]/2  cup  butter,  i  pint  milk 
warmed,  i  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  warm  water,  y2  teaspoon  soda, 
salt.  Mix  with  flour  like  soft  bread  dough.  Let  rise  over  night.  In 
morning  turn  out  on  board.  Roll  i  inch  thick,  cut  into  rings  and 
let  rise  again  until  very  light.  Fry  in  hot  lard.  When  cold,  roll  in 
powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  E.  K.  Wesner. 

Raised  Doughnuts.  Make  a  sponge,  as  for  bread,  using  a  pint 
of  warm  water  or  milk,  and  a  large  J/2  (almost  2-3)  cupfuls  yeast; 
let  rise  in  a  warm  place  over  night  and  then  add  y2  cup  of  butter  or 
sweet  lard,  a  coffee  cup  of  sugar,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  1  small  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  a 
little  grated  nutmeg,  stir  in  2  well  beaten  eggs,  add  sifted  flour,  until 
it  is  the  consistency  of  biscuit  dough,  knead  it  well,  cover  and  let  it 
rise,  then  roll  the  dough  out  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  out 
with  a  very  small  biscuit  cutter  and  let  them  rise  before  frying  them ; 
drop  into  very  hot  lard,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  them  as  fast  as 
they  are  fried,  while  warm.         Mrs.  Elizabeth  Stewart  Sloane. 

Cocoanut  Macaroons.  Whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff,  add  2 
cups  sugar  and  y2  pound  cocoanut,  stir  all  together,  then  add  3  or  4 
tablespoons  flour,  drop  from  a  spoon  on  a  greased  pan  and  bake 
slowly.  Mrs.  Ida  Griffin,  Cedar  Rapids,  la. 


make  3  dozen  fried  cakes. 


Mrs.  Alva  Nims. 


spoon  vanilla.   Flour  to  roll  out. 


Mrs.  E.  S.  Barnes. 


Choice  Cut  Flowers  at  H.  L.  Hill's 


9 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Birthday  Cards 


131 


PICKLES,  PRESERVES,  AND 
JELLIES. 


Sweet  Pickled  Fruits.  For  7  pounds  of  fruit  weighed  after 
paring,  pitting  or  other  preparation,  take  4^  pounds  sugar,  iy2 
pints  strong  vinegar,  1-3  cup  whole  cloves,  2-3  cup  whole  stick  cin- 
namon. Boil  together  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices.  When  the 
fruits  are  green  or  hard — such  as  quinces  or  watermelon  rind — they 
must  first  be  steamed  or  gently  boiled  until  tender.  Then  cook 
slowly  in  the  syrup  until  the  fruit  looks  clear  or  is  very  tender  but 
unbroken.  Skim  it  out  into  the  jars,  boil  down  the  syrup  until  thick 
and  rich,  then  pour  over  the  fruit  and  seal.  Ground  spices  may  be 
used,  tying  them  up  in  a  cloth. 

Spiced  Plums.  6  heaping  quarts  of  plums,  3^  pounds  su- 
gar, 1  pint  vinegar,  l/2  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  cloves.  Boil 
plums  in  1  teaspoon  soda  until  soft.  Drain  and  press  out  pits.  Put 
this  into  boiling  syrup,  cook  a  few  minutes  and  seal. 

Mrs.  J.  Murray  Hoag. 

Quince  and  Pear  Preserves.  Pare  and  quarter  12  pounds  hard 
pears,  pare  and  slice  4  pounds  of  quinces  at  night ;  sprinkle  on  the 
prepared  fruit  4  pounds  sugar,  putting  the  quinces  first  in  the  kettle 
at  the  bottom.  By  morning  there  will  be  sufficient  juice  to  save  using 
any  water.  Cook  very  slowly  five  or  six  hours  but  do  not  stir.  Sweet 
apples  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  pears. 

Orange  Marmalade.  Cut  off  the  ends  of  5  oranges,  slice  thin 
and  quarter  each  slice.  Slice  1  lemon  also.  Measure  your  sliced 
fruit  and  to  every  pint  of  fruit  add  3  pints  of  water.  Let  stand  un- 
covered twenty-four  hours.  Boil  forty-five  minutes.  Stand  twenty- 
four  hours  again.  Then  measure  your  fruit  and  juice  and  to  every 
pound  add  i1/^  pounds  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  another  lemon. 
Boil  45  minutes  longer.   Seal  as  any  other  jelly. 

Mrs.  Henry  Butterzvorth. 


McCaffrey's  Fine  Cigars 


132 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Quince  Honey.  i  quart  sugar,  i  teacup  water ;  boil  down  to 
jelly,  then  add  3  grated  quinces  and  boil.        Mrs.  Louise  Myers. 

Green  Tomato  Preserves.  Pare  small  green  tomatoes,  add 
same  weight  in  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night.  Pour  off  syrup  and 
boil  until  thick,  add  tomatoes  and  boil  until  they  look  clear,  remove 
to  platter.  Boil  syrup  until  very  thick,  add  thin  slices  of  lemon  and 
the  tomatoes  and  a  little  preserved  ginger,  and  seal  in  air  tight  jars. 
Garnish  a  flat  dish  with  preserved  lemon  slices  and  in  the  center  place 
the  tomatoes  separately.   Attractive  and  delicious. 

Mrs.  Mary  Trout  Godfrey. 

Sunshine  Strawberries.  3  pounds  fine  strawberries,  3  pounds 
granulated  sugar,  2  cups  boiling  water.  Boil  until  it  hairs.  Don't 
stir  after  sugar  is  dissolved,  drop  in  strawberries  and  boil  10  or  15 
minutes.  Don't  worry  because  they  are  thin.  Spread  on  platters 
and  put  in  the  sun  (under  glass  is  preferable)  until  they  are  thick 
preserves.   Nice  to  serve  with  ice  cream. 

Mrs.  B.  B.  Faulkner. 
Pear  Chips.    8  pounds  pears  sliced  very  thin,  4  pounds  granu- 
lated sugar,  4  lemons,  juice  and  rind  (cut  rind  in  thin  strips), 
pound  fresh  ginger  root,  scraped  and  cut  in  strips,  1  cup  water.  Boil 
slowly  4  hours.  Mrs.  Nellie  Dunham,  Wayne,  111. 

Peach  Marmalade.  Pare,  stone  and  weigh  the  fruit,  heat 
slowly  to  draw  out  the  juice,  stirring  often  with  a  wooden  spoon. 
Boil  and  stir  %  hour,  then  add  the  sugar,  allowing  %  pound  to  each 
pound  of  fruit.  Boil  up  well  for  5  minutes,  taking  off  every  particle 
of  scum,  add  juice  of  1  lemon  for  every  3  pounds  of  fruit,  and  the 
water  in  which  %  the  meats  of  the  pits  have  been  boiled  and  steeped. 
Boil  all  together  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  to  a  smooth  paste,  take 
from  the  stove  and  can.  Mrs.  Carrie  B.  Hoag. 

Candied  Orange  Peel.  Cut  orange  peels  into  thin  strips  with 
shears.  Put  on  stove  in  cold  salt  water  and  boil  until  tender.  Boil 
sugar  and  water  until  it  threads,  add  the  peel,  let  boil  a  few  minutes 
and  remove  the  peel  to  platter.  Delicious  chopped  and  added  to 
ice  cream.  Mrs.  Mary  Trout  Godfrey. 

Cucumber  Pickles.  Put  cucumbers  in  salt  water  over  night, 
take  out  and  drain,  put  on  first  in  water  and  vinegar  (enough  vinegar 
to  taste)  heat  until  scalding  hot;  also  put  a  pinch  of  alum  to  make 


Studebaker  Cars — C.  P.  Bauch,  Distributer 


Gansert's  Celebrated  Chocolates — "Nasby,"  136  Main  133 


them  brittle ;  when  sufficiently  heated,  take  out  one  at  a  time,  wipe 
dry  and  put  in  two  quart  jars.  Take  pure  cider  vinegar  and  boil  it 
with  horseradish,  cinnamon  bark,  green  peppers,  sugar,  a  little  celery 
seed,  pour  it  on  the  cucumbers  boiling  hot ;  cover  them  and  seal  up. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Goller. 

Cucumber  Pickles.  Slice  100  cucumbers  (about  3  inches 
long)  and  1  quart  small  white  onions.  Let  stand  over  night  in  weak 
brine.  Drain  well.  Mix  with  1  tablespoon  white  mustard  seed,  1 
tablespoon  black  mustard  seed,  1  teaspoon  celery  seed,  y2  pint  olive 
oil.    Fill  jars  with  this  mixture.    Cover  with  cold  vinegar  and  seal. 

Mrs.  N.  B.  Butterworth. 

Pickled  Onions.  Pare  small  onions  and  place  them  in  weak 
brine  for  three  days,  then  drain  and  pour  scalding  vinegar  over  them, 
allowing  1  cup  sugar  to  every  quart  of  onions  and  a  teaspoon  of 
either  mixed  spices  or  cinnamon  tied  in  a  cloth. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Dudley. 

Chicago  Hot.  1  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  pared  and  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  drain,  2  cups  chopped  celery,  2  cups  chopped  onions,  1 
cup  grated  horseradish,  1  cup  white  mustard  seed,  2  cups  sugar,  2 
red  peppers,  2  green  peppers,  1  cup  salt,  2  tablespoons  mixed  cloves, 
cinnamon  and  allspice,  6  cups  vinegar.  Mix  cold  and  put  in  stone 
jar.   Do  not  cook.  Mrs.  A.  J.  House. 

Meat  Sauce.  3  dozen  cucumbers  grated,  10  onions  chopped 
fine,  1  teacup  salt,  ]/2  cup  black  pepper,  1  cup  mustard  seed.  Cover 
with  cold  vinegar.  Mrs.  Alex  Organ. 

Mango  Pickles.  Cut  the  peppers  open  at  one  side ;  soak  in 
water  forty-eight  hours  with  a  little  salt.  Turn  off  the  water,  then 
take  equal  parts  water  and  vinegar  and  let  stand  three  days,  turn  off 
liquid.  Then  fill  peppers  with  chopped  cabbage;  tie  up;  take  two 
parts  of  vinegar,  1  of  sugar,  spices  to  suit.  Let  come  to  a  boil, 
pour  on  peppers.  Mrs.  Jane  Webster. 

Corn  Pickles.  1  dozen  ears  corn,  1  head  cabbage,  J/2  dozen 
red  pepper,  chop  cabbage  and  peppers,  J/2  gallon  vinegar,  2  cups  su- 
gar, y2  pound  ground  mustard,  2  teaspoons  salt.  After  boiling 
vinegar,  sugar,  mustard  and  salt,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  mixture. 
Heat  well  and  can  in  glass  jars.  Just  before  canning  add  a  little 
tumeric.  Mrs.  Lucy  Van  Evera. 


Trade  at  The  Golden  Rule 


134 


Linens !  yes  you  get  better  linens  at  Martensen's 


Bordeaux  Sauce.  4  quarts  chopped  cabbage,  2  quarts  green 
tomatoes  (drained),  y2  dozen  onions,  3  green  peppers,  1  dozen 
whole  cloves,  1  tablespoon  mustard  seed,  1  tablespoon  celery  seed, 
y2  tablespoon  tumeric,  2  heaping  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  salt,  2  scant 
quarts  vinegar.    Put  together  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 

Russian  Salad.  1  quart  raw  cabbage  chopped  fine,  1  quart 
boiled  beets  chopped  fine,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  teaspoon 
black  pepper,  teaspoon  red  pepper,  1  teacup  grated  horseradish. 
Cover  with  cold  vinegar  and  keep  air  tight.  This  recipe  makes  two 
quarts.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  H.  Cassin. 

Chowder.     1  peck  green  tomatoes,  6  onions  chopped  together, 

1  cup  salt,  let  stand  over  night,  in  the  morning  drain  off.  Put  on  2 
quarts  vinegar,  and  1  of  water.  Boil  15  minutes,  then  drain.  3 
pints  vinegar,  2  pounds  sugar,  pound  white  mustard  seed,  1  tea- 
spoon cayenne  pepper,  2  green  peppers,  2  tablespoons  each  of  cin- 
namon, cloves,  allspice  and  ginger.   Boil  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Margaret  H.  Bradley. 
Relish.    Chop  3  cucumbers,  2  green  sweet  apples,  salt  to  taste 
and  add  vinegar.   Nice  to  serve  with  soup.       Mrs.  W.  Simpson. 

Mustard  Pickles.  1  quart  small  cucumbers,  2  quarts  small  on- 
ions, 3  quarts  green  tomatoes,  2  heads  cauliflower.  Cook  the  three 
latter  separately  in  salt  water  till  tender,  drain,  cover  the  whole  with 
cider  vinegar.  Add  Y\  cup  ground  mustard,  2  tablespoons  flour  dis- 
solved in  cold  vinegar,  also  add  4  tablespoons  whole  white  mustard 
seed,  4  of  celery  seed,  a  little  red  pepper,  and  enough  tumeric  to  give 
a  rich  color.  Bring  all  to  a  boil  and  can  as  you  do  fruit.  It  is  ready 
to  use  at  once.  Mrs.  Fannie  Goodenow. 

Mustard  Pickles.  2  quarts  each  small  cucumbers,  chopped 
green  tomatoes,  string  beans  and  small  onions,  8  small  green  peppers, 

2  heads  cauliflower,  3  stalks  of  celery.  Soak  over  night  in  brine. 
Drain  and  steam  until  tender.  Then  pour  over  a  dressing  of  4  quarts 
vinegar,  5  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  tumeric,  %  pound  mustard. 
Thicken  with  1  cup  flour,  strain  and  can  hot.    Mrs.  Fred  Tinker. 

Tomato  Dresing.  1  onion,  1  can  tomatoes,  6  cloves ;  cook  1 5 
minutes  and  strain  through  a  sieve.  Cook  together  1  tablespoon 
flour  and  1  tablespoon  butter.  Pour  strained  tomatoes  on  it.  Add 
1  teaspoon  celery  salt.  Good  for  fried  oysters,  sweetbreads  or  French 
chops.  Mrs.  Grace  Wilbur  Trout. 


Hansen  Produce  Co.'s  Fancy  Creamery  Butter 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


135 


Chili  Sauce.  12  ripe  tomatoes,  4  ripe  peppers,  2  onions,  1 
tablespoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  3  teacups  vinegar,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon ;  chop  fine,  tomatoes,  peppers  and  onions.    Boil  1  hour. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Bradley. 

Tomato  Relish.  1  peck  ripe  tomatoes  chopped  and  thoroughly 
drained,  then  add  2  cups  chopped  celery,  6  cups  chopped  onions,  6 
medium  sized  peppers,  2  pounds  light  brown  sugar,  y  cup  salt,  2 
ounces  white  mustard  seed,  2  ounces  ground  cinnamon,  iy2  quarts 
vinegar.    Mix  thoroughly  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Mrs.  E.  K.  Wesner. 

Pickled  Whole  Tomatoes.  Take  18  or  20  small  or  medium 
sized  tomatoes  when  well  ripened;  scald  for  about  five  minutes, 
then  peel;  drop  into  glass  jars,  being  careful  not  to  break.  Boil  1 
quart  vinegar,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  mixed  "pickle  spices" ;  pour 
over  tomatoes  in  jars  and  seal  Mrs.  Phoebe  Cummings. 

Mustard  Pickles.  1  doz.  green  tomatoes  sliced,  1  doz.  green 
cucumbers  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  doz  small  onions.  Put  in  salt  water 
over  night  and  in  the  morning  drain  and  cook  in  4  cups  of  vinegar 
until  done.  Have  ready  1  pt.  snap  beans  and  one  head  cauliflower 
broken  in  small  pieces  and  cook  separately  in  salt  water  until  done. 
Drain  and  put  the  cooled  cauliflower  and  beans  with  the  vegetables 
cooked  in  vinegar  and  add  a  few  cloves  and  allspice.  Add  also  1 
cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  each  ground  mustard  and  flour  and  y2  table- 
spoon tumeric.  Allow  this  mixture  to  come  to  a  boil.  Then  seal  in 
glass  cans  while  hot.  Mrs.  J.  Brodersen. 

Cucumber  Relish.  Shred  6  cucumbers,  medium  size,  salt  to 
taste,  drain  about  20  minutes,  add  3  or  4  chopped  sweet  peppers  an1 
vinegar  for  immediate  use.  Mrs.  M.  Rice. 

Bottled  Relish.  Shred  or  chop  fine  6  red  peppers,  6  sweet  pep- 
pers. Pour  boiling  water  over,  drain  well.  Heat  1  quart  vinegar,  1 
cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  salt,  add  to  the  above.  Boil  2  minutes,  then 
bottle.  Mrs.  M.  Rice. 

Dill  Pickles.  Boil  6  quarts  water,  y  lb.  salt,  1  pint  vinegar. 
Pour  over  the  cucumbers  hot.  Bottle.  Put  the  dill  between  the 
cucumbers,  also  add  a  few  grape  leaves  on  top. 

Mrs.  M.  Rice. 


The  Racket  Store  sells  Cooking  Utensils 


136 


Cadillac — Palmer's  Auto  and  Supply  Co. — Buick 


Dill  Pickles.  Allow  9  large  grape  leaves,  2  heads  dill,  3  small 
pieces  horseradish  to  the  quart  of  cucumbers.  Pack  in  fruit  cans.  1 
cup  vinegar,  2  cups  water,  %  CUP  salt,  boil,  fill  cans,  and  seal  while 
hot.   These  will  keep  any  length  of  time.         Mrs.  M.  M.  Riegel. 

Cherry  Olives.  Use  large  ripe  cherries,  clipping  the  stems, 
leaving  them  about  an  inch  long.  Pack  in  glass  jars  without  cook- 
ing ;  use  good  cider  vinegar  with  salt,  3  tablespoons  salt  to  the  pint, 
dissolve  the  salt  by  heating  in  the  vinegar,  then  pour  over  the  cher- 
ries cold,  and  let  them  stand  a  month  before  using  to  let  them  cure. 

Cucumber  Relish.  Peel  12  large  green  cucumbers,  slice  and 
soak  over  night  in  salt  water,  then  add  5  sliced  onions.  Make  dress- 
ing of  1  teaspoon  mustard,  y2  teaspoon  tumeric,  1  y2  cups  brown  su- 
gar, 1  cup  flour,  1  qt.  vinegar,  little  pepper.   Cook,  then  mix. 

Mrs.  Lenetta  K.  Moenck. 

Tomato  Catsup.  Boil  until  soft  12  medium  sized  onions 
sliced,  and  %  bushel  tomatoes.  Strain  off  juice  and  rub  pulp  through 
a  wire  sieve.  To  the  juice  add  2^2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  vinegar,  1  level 
teaspoon  black  pepper,  y2  teaspoon  allspice,  %  teaspoon  cloves,  red 
pepper  the  size  of  a  pea,  1  oz.  celery  seed,  (celery  seed  should  be  in 
a  thin  muslin  bag).  Boil  y2  hour.  Remove  celery  seed,  add  pulp, 
boil  until  thick  enough,  bottle  and  seal.  Mrs.  M.  M.  Riegel. 

Catsup.  y2  bushel  tomatoes,  3  onions,  1  pint  water,  boil  un- 
til tender  and  run  through  a  sieve ;  add  1  quart  vinegar,  y2  tablespoon 
allspice,  1  tablespoon  black  pepper,  1  tablespoon  mustard,  y2  tea- 
spoon cloves,  y2  teaspoon  red  pepper,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  lb.  su- 
gar, scant  y2  pint  salt,  2  bunches  celery.  Place  the  spices  and  celery 
in  a  bag.   Boil  all  ingredients  until  thick.      Mrs.  Bdzv.  Luckiesh. 

Chili  Sauce.  20  large  ripe  tomatoes,  6  sour  apples,  4  red  pep- 
pers, 4  onions,  chop  fine,  add  4  cups  vinegar,  cup  sugar,  2  scant  tea- 
spoons salt,  1  teaspoon  each  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  nutmeg. 
Boil.  This  makes  about  4  quarts.  I  take  out  some  of  the  tomato 
seeds  when  paring  them  and  some  of  the  tomato  juice,  as  it  seems  to 
be  so  thin.  Ida  E.  Black. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles.  Steam  the  tomatoes  until  tender,  place 
in  jars.  For  about  7  quarts  boil  up  the  following:  2  quarts  cider 
vinegar,  1  tablespoon  salt,  6  cups  sugar,  6  sticks  cinnamon,  broken 
up.    2  heaping  teaspoons  whole  cloves.    Pour  over  the  tomatoes 

"Hamley's  to  be  sure"  for  photographs 


Distinctly  a  Ladies  Store,  136  Main 


137 


while  everything  is  hot.  These  will  keep  a  month  or  more  in  a  com- 
mon stone  jar  or  if  sealed  in  fruit  jars  will  keep  a  year  or  till  wanted 
for  use.  Mrs.  E.  B.  Staman,  El  wood,  Iowa. 

Corn  Salad.  2  ears  sweet  corn,  3  green  peppers,  5  cents  worth 
white  mustard,  1  head  cabbage,  3  large  onions,  2  cups  sugar,  iy2 
quarts  vinegar,  2  teaspoons  salt.  Cook  together  30  minutes.  Celery 
improves  it.  Mrs.  D.  F.  Scheib. 

Corn  Salad.  12  ears  corn,  1  large  head  cabbage,  6  onions,  3 
peppers,  5  cents  each  white  mustard  seed  and  celery  seed,  2  quarts 
vinegar,  sugar  and  salt  to  taste.  Mrs.  W.  R.  Knight. 

Watermelon  Pickles.  Cut  the  melon  in  good  sized  pieces  and 
let  soak  over  night  in  salt  water.  (A  good  tablespoon  of  salt  to  each 
melon.)  In  the  morning,  pour  off  the  salt  water,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  a  little  vinegar  and  boil  until  it  can  be  pierced  with  a  fork. 
Pour  in  colander  to  drain.  After  draining  put  melon  on  a  cloth  and 
spat  out  all  of  the  water  with  another  cloth.  For  the  syrup,  take  2 
pints  sugar  to  1  pint  of  vinegar,  add  5  cents  worth  stick  cinnamon. 
Stick  a  clove  in  each  piece  and  boil  in  the  syrup  a  few  minutes.  Fill 
jars  and  after  the  syrup  has  boiled  awhile,  pour  over  the  melon. 
Drain  off  the  next  day  and  boil  the  syrup  down,  then  pour  over 
melon  and  seal  jars.  Bessie  Joiner. 

Pepper  Relish.  12  sweet  green  peppers,  12  sweet  red  peppers, 
12  large  onions.  Put  all  through  food  chopper.  Cover  with  water. 
Boil  about  5  minutes,  drain.  2-3  quart  vinegar,  2  cups  sugar,  3 
tablespoons  salt,  boil.    Put  together  while  hot. 

Mrs.  David  Wright. 

Cold  Mustard  Pickles.  1  gal.  vinegar,  1  cup  salt,  1  cup  dry 
mustard,  1  cup  light  brown  sugar.  Mix  together  and  put  in  the  cu- 
cumbers as  you  gather  them.  Edith  Morden. 

Cold  Pickles.  (Very  fine) — Into  a  2  or  3  gallon  stone  jar  put 
1  gallon  best  cider  vinegar,  1  pound  brown  sugar,  ]/2  pint  salt,  2 
ounces  tumeric,  2  ounces  black  pepper,  2  ounces  ground  ginger,  2 
ounces  cloves,  2  ounces  mace,  2  ounces  white  mustard  seed,  1  box 
Coleman's  mustard,  and  a  little  horseradish,  split  into  strips.  This 
pickle  may  be  prepared  early  in  the  season,  throwing  into  it  at  any 
time  small  cucumbers,  snap  beans,  onions  and  cauliflower.    Stir  oc- 


Wright  Motor  Car  Co.,  Cor.  Pleasant  and  Olive  Sts. 


138 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


casionally.  When  jar  is  full  enough  tie  up  with  stout  paper.  Will 
keep  indefinitely.  Mrs.  O.  C.  Kucheman. 

Pickles.  For  i  gallon  pickles :  Yz  gallon  vinegar,  y2  cup 
salt,  J/£  cup  mustard  and  either  i  or  2  cups  sugar  and  pour  over  cold 
after  the  pickles  have  been  soaked  over  night  in  salt. 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Philips. 

Cucumber  Pickles — Uncooked.  Use  small  cucumbers.  Wipe 
perfectly  dry.  For  a  i  quart  jar  put  i  tablespoon  salt  in  the  bottom 
of  jar.  Pack  in  the  cucumbers  as  tightly  as  possible.  Put  into  the 
top  i  teaspoon  mixed  spices,  y2  cup  sugar  and  fill  the  jar  with  un- 
diluted vinegar  and  seal.  Mrs.  L.  W .  Clark,  Chester,  Iowa. 

Pickles.  Place  pickles  (medium  size)  in  salt  water  over  night, 
dry  and  drop  into  following  ingredients  which  have  come  to  boil. 
For  every  quart  of  vinegar  I  cup  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  2  teaspoons 
mixed  spices,  alum  size  of  hazelnut,  a  sprig  of  dill,  place  in  jars,  pour 
vinegar  enough  to  cover  and  seal  tight.  Agnes  Staack. 

Cantaloupe  Marmalade.  1  doz.  cantaloupes  cut  in  small  cubes, 
3  lemons  cut  in  cubes,  half  as  much  sugar  as  bulk,  1  oz.  or  more 
strong  vanilla  extract.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar,  lemon  and  van- 
illa adding  2  cups  of  water.  When  this  is  at  the  boiling  stage  add 
the  cantaloupe  and  boil  until  the  fruit  is  tender  and  the  juice  as 
thick  as  desired.  Mrs.  L.  W .  Clark,  Chester,  Iowa. 

French  Currant  Jam.  4  pounds  currants,  1  pound  raisins,  5 
pounds  sugar,  4  oranges,  juice  and  grated  rind,    Cook  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  W .  A.  Blessing. 

Orange  and  Pieplant  Marmalade.  6  small  oranges,  7  cups 
raw  pieplant,  7  scant  cups  sugar.  Boil  pieplant  with  1  cup  water 
until  tender.  Grate  the  yellow  of  3  small  oranges  and  cup  up  pulp 
of  6  in  small  pieces.  Cook  pieplant,  sugar  and  orange  until  thick- 
ness desired.  Mrs.  Stephen  Palmer. 

Chipped  Pears.  8  pounds  of  (hard)  pears,  8  pounds  of  su- 
gar, 6  lemons,  2  ounces  green  ginger.  Chip  pears  into  small  pieces, 
put  in  juice  and  rind  of  4  lemons,  cut  fine.  Slice  the  other  two  lem- 
ons removing  seeds,  and  add  just  before  the  fruit  is  done.  Cook  all 
above,  slowly,  until  clear.  Emma  G.  Port. 


Reiter's  Grocery — The  Home  of  Good  Things  to  Eat. 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Cocoa  Butter 


139 


Peach  Conserve.  3  pounds  peaches  cut  fine,  3  pounds  sugar, 
y2  pound  seeded  raisins  ground,  pound  English  walnuts  rolled,  3 
oranges  ground,  use  skins.  Use  coarse  plate  for  grinding.  Boil 
20  minutes,  add  nuts  and  put  in  glasses..  Makes  12  glasses.  For 
conserves,  jellies  and  jams,  if  sugar  is  added  hot  at  end  of  the  boil- 
ing, the  mixture  will  not  be  so  strong.  Mrs.  W.  A.  Blessing. 

Plum  Conserve.  3  pounds  plums  (red  or  blue),  3  pounds  su- 
gar, y2  pound  raisins,  2  cups  nut  meats,  pulp  of  2  oranges.  Stone 
plums,  put  through  the  meat  grinder,  cut  up  raisins  and  nuts,  sim- 
mer slowly  1  hour.  Emma  G.  Fort. 

Seven  Minute  Strawberry  Jam.  To  each  cup  of  crushed  straw- 
berries add  2  cups  granulated  sugar.  Boil  seven  minutes  and  put 
into  jelly  glasses.  Mrs.  Owen  J.  Keegan,  Chicago,  111. 

Quince  Honey.  2  pints  sugar,  1  pint  water,  2  quinces  grated. 
Boil  sugar  and  water  together,  then  drop  in  grated  quince.  Boil  15 
minutes.  Mrs.  W.  A.  Blessing. 

Crabapple  Jelly.  Wash  the  fruit  clean,  put  in  kettle,  cover 
with  water  and  boil  until  thoroughly  cooked.  Strain  through  canton 
flannel  bag.  For  each  pint  of  this  liquor  allow  1  pound  sugar ;  boil 
the  liquor  20  minutes  then  add  the  sugar  (which  should  be  heating 
in  the  oven)  boil  five  minutes.  Add  juice  2  lemons,  pour  into  jelly 
glasses  and  cover  with  parrafrme  (melted.)  No  necessity  to  cover 
with  paper. 

Raspberry  Jelly.  Barely  cover  red  raspberries,  or  black  rasp- 
berries with  water,  cook  until  tender,  then  strain  through  jelly  bag. 
Prepare  currants  in  the  same  manner.  To  1  part  currant  juice  add  2 
parts  raspberry  juice  and  as  much  sugar  as  there  is  juice.  Cook  1 
cup  juice  and  1  cup  sugar  at  a  time  which  makes  one  glass  when 
cooked. 

Bitter  Almond  Jelly.  To  apple  jelly  add  a  few  drops  of  bit- 
ter almond  extract  just  before  removing  from  the  stove.  This 
makes  an  excellent  imitation  of  peach  jelly. 

Grape  Catsup.  4  pints  grape  pulp,  3  pounds  sugar,  boil ;  add 
cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg  to  taste,  a  little  salt  and  boil  thick.  Just 
before  taking  from  stove  add  1  pint  vinegar. 

Mrs.  Thos.  W.  C  as  sin. 


Cook  with  Gas — Maquoketa  Light  and  Fuel  Co. 


140 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Carrot  Marmalade,  i  J/£  lbs.  carrots,  2  lemons,  equal  amount 
of  sugar.  Put  the  carrots  through  a  meat  grinder  and  cook  until  ten- 
der. Wash  lemons  thoroughly  and  cut  into  small  pieces  and  cook  in 
double  boiler  fifteen  minutes.  Combine  the  two  mixtures  and  add 
as  much  granulated  sugar  and  boil. 

Jelly.  1  grape  fruit,  1  orange,  1  lemon.  Slice  all  very  thin, 
rejecting  seeds  and  cores.  Measure  fruit  and  add  3  times  the  quan- 
tity of  water.  Let  stand  over  night.  Next  morning  boil  five  min- 
utes. Add  equal  amount  of  sugar  and  let  stand  until  next  day.  Then 
boil  gently  for  2  hours  or  until  it  jellies,  stiring  as  little  as  possible. 

Gooseberry  Preserves.  Stem  and  carefully  wash  gooseberries, 
add  water,  and  when  heated  through,  can.  When  desired  take  equal 
quantities  of  gooseberries  and  sugar,  and  boil  up  until  thick  (5  to 
10  minutes.)  Delicious. 


Hoffmann  Bros. — The  Home  of  Quality  Groceries 


My  Candies  Melt  (in  your  mouth) — "Nasby"  143 


FROZEN  DAINTIES. 


To  make  ice  cream  successfully,  the  ice  should  be  nearly  as  fine 
as  the  salt.  Use  one  part  salt  to  three  or  four  parts  ice.  Put  in  a 
layer  of  ice  three  inches  deep,  then  a  measure  of  salt,  etc.,  till  the 
freezer  is  full.  The  melted  ice  and  salt  should  surround  the  can,  and 
not  be  drawn  off  as  fast  as  melted.    Draw  it  off  only  when  it  floats. 

Ice  Cream  Custard.  i  quart  new  milk,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons 
cornstarch.  Heat  the  milk  in  double  boiler,  then  stir  in  cornstarch 
mixed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk;  let  it  boil  for  one  or  two  minutes, 
then  remove  from  stove  and  partly  cool  and  stir  in  the  egg  and  a  half 
pound  of  sugar.  Add  a  pint  or  more  of  rich  cream,  flavor  and 
freeze.  Mrs.  Chas.  von  Schrader. 

Caramel.  For  flavoring  ice  cream,  custard  or  pudding  sauces. 
Melt  i  cup  sugar  in  frying  pan.  Stir  until  it  becomes  of  a  golden 
brown  color.  Add  J/2  cup  boiling  water.  Simmer  io  minutes.  Bot- 
tle when  cool. 

Angel  Ice  Cream.  Bake  Angel  Cake  in  an  oval  pan,  cut  a  lid 
from  the  top,  scoop  out  center,  and  fill  with  ice  cream,  replace  lid, 
pour  over  a  hot  ice-cream  sauce. 

Cantaloups  Ice  Cream.  Fill  very  small  cantaloups  halves  with 
ice  cream  and  cover  with  ripe  red  raspberries. 

Easily  Made  Caramel  Ice  Cream.  2  quarts  pure  cream,  flavor 
with  2]/2  cups  caramel  flavoring.  Freeze. 

Caramel  Flavoring — i  ]/2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  boiling  water.  Di- 
rections for  making  flavoring:  put  sugar  in  skillet,  stirring  con- 
stantly over  hot  part  of  range  until  melted  to  a  syrup  of  light  brown 
color.   Add  gradually  hot  water,  simmer  ten  minutes ;  cool. 

Camilla  Stephens  Cook. 


Guaranteed  Jewelry  at  C.  A.  Gallagher  &  Son 


144    All  goods  are  sold  on  the  quality  value  basis  at  Martensen's 


Caramel  Parfait.  Cook  ^4  CUP  sugar  until  brown,  add  y^.  cup 
boiling  water,  cook  until  thick,  and  pour  slowly  into  4  well  beaten 
eggs,  add  dash  salt,  and  turn  into  a  double  boiler,  add  1  cup  of  thin 
cream  and  1  teaspoon  butter,  and  cook  until  hot;  remove  from  fire, 
beat  until  cold,  and  add  2  cups  whipped  cream  and  a  little  powdered 
sugar  if  not  quite  sweet  enough  to  suit  taste.  Pack  in  mould  in  ice 
and  salt.  Minced  nuts  or  powdered  macaroons  may  be  added  just 
before  freezing. 

Caramel  Ice  Cream  with  Pecans.  Break  2  cups  of  nuts  and 
pour  over  them  in  a  shallow  pan  the  boiling  caramel.  When  cold, 
chop  fine  and  add  to  ice  cream  mixture.  Save  some  of  the  caramel 
nuts  to  sprinkle  over  cream  when  serving. 

Cherry  and  Almond  Ice  Cream.  Add  to  cream  when  half 
frozen  1  cup  candied  or  preserved  cherries  and  1  cup  blanched  and 
shredded  almonds,  flavor  with  almond  extract  or  Maraschino. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream.  1  quart  cream,  1  pint  milk,  2  cups  su- 
gar, 2  eggs  beaten  light,  five  tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  milk ;  heat  milk  to  near  boiling  point,  pour  in  slowly 
beaten  eggs  and  sugar,  then  chocolate ;  cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring 
constantly;  cool. 

Chocolate  Parfait.  Cook  1  cup  sugar  with  cup  water  until 
boiling,  pour  slowly  into  4  well  beaten  eggs,  add  dash  salt  and  turn 
into  double  boiler,  add  3  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  1  cup  thin 
cream,  1  teaspoon  butter,  when  boiling  remove  from  fire,  beat  un- 
til cold,  add  1 cups  whipped  cream.  Turn  into  a  mould  and  pack 
in  ice  and  salt,  and  serve  with  orange  Tunisian,  or  preserved  peach 
halves. 

Coupes  Peches.  Half  fill  glasses  with  ice  cream,  place  a 
turned  up  half  of  a  peach  poached  in  vanilla  syrup  in  each,  fill  with 
bar-le-duc  and  cover  with  ice  cream  or  lemon  or  orange  ice. 

Cranberry  Ice.  Boil  together  y2  pint  water  and  y2  pint  sugar 
for  1  minute.  Put  into  this  1  quart  cranberries.  Boil  for  fifteen 
minutes  covered  closely.  Then  crush  any  that  may  be  unbroken. 
Strain  and  add  the  whites  of  eggs  (well  beaten)  in  the  proportion  of 
3  to  a  quart  of  juice.  Then  freeze.  Make  measure  of  sugar  light 
and  then  add  to  suit  the  taste.  Miss  Jennie  Barnes. 


100  Per  Cent.  Value  at  Geisler  Shoe  and  Clothing  Co. 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Cocoa  Butter 


145 


Cranberry  Frappe  to  Serve  With  Turkey.  Boil  i  quart  cran- 
berries in  i  pint  water  5  minutes.  Strain  through  a  coarse  cheese 
cloth,  add  1  pint  sugar  and  stir;  boil  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
When  cold  add  the  strained  juice  of  2  lemons.  Freeze  to  a  mush  us- 
ing equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt.  Serve  in  glass  cups  either  with  or 
just  after  roast  turkey.  Mrs.  Helen  Sanborn  Howes. 

Frozen  Pudding.  Heat  1  pint  milk.  When  boiling  add  the 
following  mixture :  1  %  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  flour,  well 
mxied,  stir  into  the  milk,  cook  like  custard.  When  cold  add  1  quart 
cream,  y>  pound  candied  fruit  (2  apricots  and  the  rest  cherries) 
chopped  fine.  When  the  above  is  partly  frozen  add  the  fruit  and 
freeze. 

Creole  Ice  Cream.  1  pint  cream  (scalded),  1  cup  caramelized 
sugar,  2  pints  cream,  1  cup  maple  sugar,  1  cup  almonds  chopped  fine, 
%  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Blanch  almonds  and  brown  in 
oven  before  chopping.  Margaret  V.  Hughes,  Beach,  N.  D. 

Fruit  Ice  With  Cream.  Enough  to  fill  3  quart  freezer.  1 y 
cups  sugar,  iy2  cups  water,  boil  5  minutes,  iy2  cup  fruit  pulp,  1-3 
cup  lemon  juice,  1  y2  cups  heavy  cream.  Add  whites  of  2  eggs  when 
partly  frozen.  Govern  the  amount  of  lemon  juice  by  the  tartness  of 
fruit  used.  Grace  Crane  Keck. 

Lemon  Ice.  1  quart  milk,  2  cups  sugar,  3  lemons  (juice  of  3 
and  grated  rind  of  1).  Strain  juice  before  adding  sugar.  Put  milk 
in  freezer,  alowing  it  to  get  cold  before  adding  other  ingredients. 

Mrs.  S.  B.  Sears. 

Maple  Parfait.  4  yolks  of  eggs,  1  teacup  maple  syrup.  Beat 
eggs  well,  add  to  maple  syrup  and  cook  stiring  constantly,  then  add 
1  pint  whipped  cream  and  freeze.  Mrs.  Mary  Riland. 

Maple  Frango.  Bring  to  a  boil  CUP  maple  syrup.  Pour  it 
over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  and  cook  over  hot  water  un- 
til smooth.  When  cold,  add  1  pint  of  cream  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into 
mold  and  freeze  4  hours. 

Maple  Mousse.  1  cup  maple  syrup,  1  pint  thick  cream,  4  eggs, 
mix  syrup  and  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Bring  to  a  boil.  When  cool, 
add  the  cream  whipped  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Freeze  with- 
out stirring. 

Insurance — H.  Gale  Buchner 

10 


146 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Mint  Ice  Cream.  Serve  ice  cream  in  sherbet  glasses.  Cook  I 
cup  sugar  with  %cup  water  and  y2  cup  of  bruised  mint,  add  %  CUP 
grape-fruit  juice,  strain  and  cool,  and  pour  over  cream.  Garnish 
with  whipped  cream  and  fresh  mint  leaves  dusted  with  powdered 
sugar. 

Nesselrole  Pudding,  i  quart  cream,  i  pound  sugar,  y2  pound 
nuts,  y2  pound  candied  fruit,  i  quart  milk,  i  ounce  chocolate,  8 
eggs.   Flavor  with  vanilla.   Freeze.       Mrs.  Chas.  von  Schrader. 

Orange  Ice.  Juice  of  3  oranges  and  1  lemon,  1  pint  water,  also 
1  pint  pulverized  sugar.  Mix  and  freeze  as  rapidly  as  possible. 
When  partly  frozen  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  may  be  added  if  de- 
sired. Mrs.  A.  Palmer. 

White  Parfait  with  Hot  Chocolate  Sauce.  Cook  y2  cup  sugar 
with  y2  cup  water,  pour  slowly  into  5  egg  whites  beaten  very  stiff, 
add  a  dash  salt,  1  tablespoon  vanilla,  2  cups  whipped  cream.  Pack 
and  freeze  and  serve  with  1  tablespoon  Hot  Chocolate  sauce  poured 
over  each  serving. 

Peach  Ice  Cream.  1  quart  milk,  1  pint  sugar,  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
1  tablespoon  flour;  make  a  custard  of  these  ingredients  and  when 
cool  add  a  quart  of  rich  cream  and  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs ;  when 
partly  frozen  add  a  quart  of  ripe  peaches  sweetened  and  run  through 
a  colander;  freeze  and  pack. 

Peach  Ice  Cream  with  Almonds.  Peel,  seed  and  crush  in  a 
bowl  a  dozen  ripe  peaches,  add  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  heat  3  pints 
cream  and  1  of  fresh  milk,  when  cold  put  in  freezer  with  peaches 
and  freeze ;  when  it  begins  to  thicken  add  1  cup  chopped  almonds 
and  whites  of  2  eggs ;  stir  until  done,  take  out  dasher  and  repack,  us- 
ing plenty  of  salt ;  should  be  ready  to  slice  in  two  or  three  hours. 

Pineapple  Sherbet.  1  quart  water,  1  pound  sugar,  let  boil,  add 
1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  put  in  freezer,  when  it  starts  to  freeze  stir 
in  one  can  grated  pineapple  and  well  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  freeze 
well ;  ready  for  use. 

Pineapple  Ice.  2  quarts  water,  3  lemons,  1  can  pineapple,  1 
orange,  5  cups  sugar,  whites  of  3  eggs  when  almost  frozen.  This 
makes  1  gallon.  Mrs.  S.  B.  Sears. 


Hayes'  Grocery — Nothing  but  the  Best 


"Nasby's"  Subscription  Agency,  136  Main  Street 


147 


Sicilian  Sherbet.  Pare  i  dozen  large  mellow  peaches,  remove 
the  stones  and  cut  or  chop  the  peaches  with  a  silver  spoon,  then  add 
to  them  i  pint  orange  juice  and  1  lb.  granulated  sugar;  stir  until 
sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  then  turn  into  a  freezer  and  finish 
the  same  as  orange  sherbet.   To  be  served  with  meat  course. 

Mrs.  A.  B.  Bow  en. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream.  Sprinkle  2  cups  sugar  over  2  quarts 
strawberries.  Mash  them  and  let  stand  y>  hour,  or  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved;  and  meanwhile  prepare  the  ice,  and  pack  the  freezer. 
Turn  the  berries  into  a  large  square  of  cheese  cloth,  placed  over  a 
bowl,  and  squeeze  as  long  as  any  juice  or  pulp  will  come.  Then 
empty  the  pulp  and  seeds  left  in  the  cloth  into  a  pan,  and  pour  on 
gradually  about  a  pint  of  milk;  mix  it  well  with  pulp,  until  pulp  is 
separated  from  seeds.  Squeeze  again  until  perfectly  dry.  There 
should  be  nothing  left  in  the  cloth  save  a  ball  of  seeds.  Add  to  juice 
as  much  cream  as  you  may  have,  from  1  cup  to  3  pints,  and  sugar  to 
make  it  very  sweet.  Freeze  as  usual.  After  tasting  this,  you  will 
never  want  any  other  strawberry  ice  cream. 

Peach  Sherbet.  1  quart  well  mashed  peaches,  juice  of  2  lem- 
ons, make  very  sweet,  add  iy2  pints  water.  Stir  up  well  and  just 
before  freezing  add  1  pint  good  cream  and  freeze. 

Peach  or  Pineapple  Pudding  Glace.  Beat  3  yolks  very  light, 
add  2  tablespoons  gelatine  softened  in  y2  cup  water  and  dissolved 
in  cuP  sugar  syrup,  add  2  cups  drained  and  chopped  pineapple  or 
peach  pulp,  beat  until  cool,  and  if  pineapple  be  used  add  1  tablespoon 
lemon  juice  and  2  cups  whipped  cream.  Fold  in  the  egg  whites, 
pack  and  freeze.  A  cup  of  boiled  rice  may  be  added  to  this  with  1 
tablespoon  less  of  the  gelatine. 

Peanut  Ice  Cream.  Make  a  vanilla  cream,  and  when  nearly 
frozen,  add  ground  peanut  brittle.  ■ 

Pumpkin  Ice  Cream  for  Thanksgiving.  Make  an  ice  cream 
with  2  additional  egg  yolks  and  %  cup  sugar.  Partly  freeze,  add 
enough  blanched  almonds  to  represent  the  seeds  and  the  pulp  of  an 
orange  pulled  into  shreds,  finish  freezing  and  fill  a  scooped-out 
pumpkin,  and  serve  on  a  large  platter,  with  pumpkin  vine  with  leaves 
and  small  unripe  pumpkins  on  the  vine.  This  can  be  made  out  of 
paper  if  the  green  vine  is  not  obtainable. 


Iron  in  Comfort,  the  Electric  Way — Iowa  Electric  Co. 


148 


L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co. 


Rice  Ice  Cream — White  or  Yellow.  Boil  2  tablespoons  rice  in 
2  cups  milk  with  i  scant  cup  sugar,  dash  of  salt,  split  vanilla  bean, 
and  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon,  for  an  hour  or  more.  When  cold, 
add  y2  cup  minced  almonds  and  2  cups  whipped  cream  and  2  eggs 
beaten  stiff.   Freeze  and  serve  in  sherbet  glasses. 

Delicious  Sherbet.  Dissolve  i  pint  sugar  into  i  quart  sweet 
milk,  add  6  egg  whites  beaten  stiff;  partly  freeze,  add  the  juice  of 
6  lemons,  i  teaspoon  lemon  extract  and  freeze  stiff. 

Mrs.  M.  Rice. 

Three-Five.  3  lemons,  3  oranges,  3  bananas,  3  cups  sugar,  3 
pints  water.  Mash  bananas  fine,  strain  lemon  and  orange  juice  and 
freeze  all  together. 


The  Lee-Fisher  Company  for  Dry  Goods,  Etc. 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Pure  Spices 


149 


SAUCES  FOR  ICE  CREAM  AND  ICES. 


COLD  SAUCES. 

Coffee  Cream  Sauce.  Add  to  3  well  beaten  yolks  a  dash  of 
salt,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  1  cup  very  strong  coffee ;  cook  until  spoon 
coats,  remove  from  fire  and  add  ^  cup  whipped  cream. 

Marshmallow  Sauce.  Soften  %  lb.  marshmallows  in  double 
boiler,  add  %  CUP  pulverized  sugar  dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  each 
water  and  orange  juice  (a  blood  orange  if  possible),  add  dash  salt. 

HOT  SAUCES. 

Caramel  Nut  Sauce.  Cook  1  cup  sugar  until  brown,  add  ^ 
cup  boiling  water,  take  from  fire  and  add  1  cup  broken  pecans. 

Chocolate  Sauce.  Cook  1  cup  water  with  ]/2  cup  sugar  and  a 
small  piece  of  cinnamon  stick,  add  2  teaspoons  arrow-root  softened 
in  a  little  cold  water,  and  4  tablespoons  chocolate  melted  in  }4  CUP 
hot  water,  cook  5  minutes,  and  1  teaspoon  butter  and  1  of  vanilla. 

Orange  Sauce.  Cook  CUP  orange  juice  with  CUP  lemon 
juice  and  J4  CUP  sugar  and  pour  over  cream. 

Orange  Preserve  Tunisian.  Slice  large,  clean  oranges  inch 
thick,  cover  them  with  cold  water,  1  pint  water  for  each  orange,  let 
them  stand  for  24  or  48  hours.  Cook  in  the  water  until  tender  but 
not  soft,  add  1  lb.  sugar  and  juice  of  1  lemon  for  each  orange,  cook 
until  transparent,  put  in  cans  in  layers  of  slices  and  pour  in  the 
syrup.  Minced  or  shredded  almonds  or  pistachio  nuts  could  be 
sprinkled  over  each  layer. 


The  Taste-Good  Cake  at  The  Sanitary  Bakery 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


153 


BEVERAGES. 


"Drink,  drink,  drink! 
Drink  you  always  will. 
It  matters  not  how  much  you  drink, 
You  never  can  drink  your  fill." 

BEVERAGES. 

Long  boiling  ruins  the  water  for  tea  and  coffee  making,  as 
most  of  its  natural  properties  escape  by  evaporation,  leaving  a  very 
insipid  liquid,  composed  mostly  of  lime  and  iron,  that  would  ruin 
the  best  coffee  and  give  the  tea  a  dark,  dead  look. 

Water  left  in  the  teakettle  over  night  should  never  be  used  for 
preparing  the  breakfast  coffee. 

With  coffee  and  tea,  as  with  all  beverages,  the  very  best  is  al- 
ways the  cheapest. 

Old  Fashioned  Coffee.  "One  for  the  pot"  and  a  heaping  table- 
spoon for  each  person,  is  the  usual  allowance.  Mix  well  either  with 
a  part  or  the  whole  of  an  egg,  and  enough  cold  water  to  thoroughly 
moisten  it.  Put  in  a  well  scalded  coffee  pot.  Pour  in  half  the  quan- 
tity of  boiling  water  required,  stopping  up  the  spout  with  a  rolled 
piece  of  cloth  to  keep  all  the  flavor  in.  Boil  slowly  3  or  4  minutes. 
Then  place  on  back  of  stove  and  let  simmer  for  10  or  15  minutes. 
When  ready  to  serve  add  remainder  of  boiling  water. 

Tea.  Allow  2  teaspoons  tea  to  one  large  cup  boiling  water; 
keep  tea  pot  very  clean  and  always  scald  well  before  using.  Put  in 
the  tea.  Pour  on  about  a  cup' of  freshly  boiling  water,  set  it  on  the 
fire  in  a  warm  place  where  it  will  not  boil  but  keep  very  hot,  to  al- 
most boiling;  let  it  steep  or  "draw"  10  or  12  minutees.  Now  fill  up 
with  as  much  boiling  water  as  is  required.  Send  hot  to  table.  Iced 
tea  is  now  served,  to  a  considerable  extent,  during  the  summer 
months.  It  is,  of  course,  used  without  milk  and  sugar  to  retain  the 
finer  tea  flavor.  It  should  be  prepared  in  advance,  bottled,  and  placed 
in  the  ice  chest  'till  required.  It  should  also  be  made  stronger  than 
when  served  hot. 


Petroleum  Carbon,  the  Ashless  Fuel — Green  Bay  Lumber  Co. 


154 


Use  My  Telephone  any  time — "Nasby,"  136  Main 


Cocoa.  4  tablespoons  cocoa  to  each  pint  of  water.  As  much 
milk  as  water.  Sugar  to  taste.  Rub  cocoa  smooth  in  a  little  cold 
water.  Have  ready  on  fire  the  balance  of  pint  of  water  boiling  hot. 
Stir  in  the  cocoa  paste.  Boil  20  minutes.  Add  milk  and  boil  5  min- 
utes more,  stirring  often.  Serve  hot.  Nice  with  a  marshmallow  or 
whipped  cream  added. 

Nectar.  Juice  of  3  oranges,  juice  of  3  lemons,  y2  the  juice  of 
a  small  can  of  pineapple.  Sweeten  to  taste,  add  crushed  ice,  pour 
over  1  quart  water. 

Strawberry  Nectar.  1  quart  mashed  strawberries  and  juice  of 
1  lemon,  2  tablespoons  orange  juice,  3  pints  water.  Let  stand  3 
hours,  strain  on  3  pounds  powdered  sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved. 
Serve  ice  cold. 

Raspberry  Shrub.  Cover  3  quarts  of  ripe  red  raspberries  with 
1  quart  cider  vinegar.  Let  stand  24  hours  or  longer.  Strain  and 
add  to  each  pint  of  juice  1  pound  of  white  sugar.  Boil  ]/2  hour, 
skim,  bottle  and  seal. 

Raspberry  Vinegar.  Put  ripe  red  raspberries  in  a  stone  jar  and 
cover  with  cider  vinegar,  let  stand  12  hours,  then  pour  the  vinegar 
over  a  gallon  of  fresh  berries  and  let  stand  over  night.  Allow  1 
pound  loaf  sugar  to  1  pint  juice.  Boil  3  minutes,  skim  and  bottle. 
When  serving,  take  y2  juice  and  y2  water. 

Egg  Drink.  ( 1  glass. )  Shake  together  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  su- 
gar and  juice  of  T/2  lemon.   Pour  on  1  glass  of  Apollinaris  water. 

Orangeade.  Boil  4  quarts  water  with  3  pounds  loaf  sugar, 
skim  and  let  stand  until  cold.  Add  juice  of  8  oranges  and  rinds  of  2 
oranges  rubbed  in  sugar. 

Fruit  Punch.  (For  50  persons.)  Make  a  syrup  of  1  cup  water 
and  2  cups  sugar.  To  this  add  1  cup  tea  infusion,  2  cups  strawberry 
syrup,  can  pineapple,  juice  of  5  lemons  and  5  oranges.  Let  this 
stand  30  minutes,  then  strain  and  add  ice  water  to  make  the  quantity 
ij4  gallons.  Just  before  serving  add  quart  of  Appolinaris  and  1 
cup  Maraschino  cherries. 


Garments  of  Quality  "Sunshine  or  Stylecraft,"  at  Lamey's 


All  goods  are  sold  on  the  quality  value  basis  at  Martensen's  155 


Pineapple  Sherbet,  i  pineapple,  either  fresh  or  preserved,  2 
quarts  water,  juice  of  4  lemons,  ice,  sugar  to  taste.  Cut  the  pine- 
apple into  slices  and  chop  it  coarsely.  Pour  over  it  the  cold  water, 
add  the  lemon  juice,  sweeten  to  taste  and  strain  into  a  large  jug.  Just 
before  serving,  add  a  few  pieces  of  ice. 

Egg  Nog.  Beat  3  eggs  very  thoroughly.  Add  6  tablespoons 
sugar  and  1  y2  cups  ice  water.  Whip  into  the  mixture  the  juice  of 
1  orange  and  a  small  amount  of  grated  rind.  Serve  in  glasses  with 
whipped  cream  on  top  of  each.  Mrs.  Minnie  Tennis 

Lemonade.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  1  cup  sugar  and  1  pint 
water,  add  ^2  cup  lemon  juice.  Cool  and  dilute  with  ice  water. 
This  syrup  may  be  bottled  and  kept  on  hand  to  use  as  needed. 

Georgia  V.  Price,  De Witt,  la. 

Iced  Cocoa.  Take  7  tablespoons  cocoa,  1  pint  water  and  boil 
to  a  thick  cream.  Cool.  Add  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt,  a  very  little  vanilla. 
When  ready  to  serve  take  2  or  3  teaspoons  of  the  above,  2  teaspoons 
sugar,  fill  the  tumbler  with  sweet  milk.  Serve  ice  cold  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  whipped  cream  on  top.  Mrs.  B.  Webster. 

Grape  Juice.  Pick  over  and  thoroughly  wash  grapes  (Con- 
cord Grapes.)  Put  in  white  granite  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water 
and  let  stand  over  night.  Next  morning  put  on  back  of  stove  and 
let  simmer  all  day,  stirring  occasionally.  That  evening  put  in  cheese- 
cloth bag  and  let  drain  all  night.  Squeeze  a  little  next  morning  to 
get  remaining  juice  out.  To  5  quarts  of  grape  juice,  add  1  quart 
sugar.  Put  back  on  stove  and  let  come  almost  to  boiling  point.  Keep 
at  this  stage  at  least  thirty  minutes.  Then  bottle  in  clean  vinegar 
bottles.  Use  only  clean  new  corks.  Dip  in  melted  paraffine.  When 
cold-  re-dip.   Set  in  a  cool  dark  place.   Will  keep  for  years. 

Rhubarb  Juice.  Wash  rhubarb,  cut  into  short  lengths,  place 
these  in  sauce  pan  with  barely  enough  water  to  start  them  to  cooking, 
let  them  boil  until  the  rhubarb  is  tender.  Strain  the  cooked  rhubarb 
through  a  jelly  bag.  Add  CUP  sugar  to  every  cup  of  juice  and 
boil  again  from  3  to  5  minutes.  Dilute  the  cool  syrup  with  ice  water 
and  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  an  orange  to  every  quart.  The 
syrup  may  be  prepared,  bottled  and  kept  in  the  ice  box  ready  for  use. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Scheib. 


Visit  Martensen's  Ladies'  Ready-to-Wear  Department 


156 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Birthday  Cards 


Coffee  for  large  gatherings.  Use  only  the  best  coffee,  i  ten 
quart  pail  of  water  and  i  pound  of  coffee,  will  make  40  cups  of  very- 
strong  coffee.  Grind  coarse,  put  in  good  sized  sacks,  not  to  exceed 
J/2  pound  each.  Place  the  coffee  in  cold  water.  When  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  set  back  and  turn  in  a  small  cup  of  cold  water.  Or, — let  water 
boil  hard,  put  in  coffee,  and  allow  it  to  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes, 
then  set  back  and  put  in  water  as  above  directed.  Use  egg  if  you 
wish.  Mrs.  W.  A.  Blessing. 


F.  S.  Haight,  Confectionery  and  Bakery. 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


159 


CANDIES. 


"After  the  stage  of  "threading"  or  "hairing"  the  syrup  should 
never  be  stirred,  as  it  will  granulate. 

If  the  pot  in  which  syrup  is  boiled  for  candy  is  buttered  for  an 
inch  or  two  down,  the  liquid  will  not  boil  over.  It  will  not  rise  after 
it  reaches  the  butter. 

Should  fondant  stick  to  the  hands,  dip  the  fingers  into  alcohol. 

Use  fresh,  cold  water  for  each  trial  of  candy;  preferably  ice 
water. 

Fondant  is  the  basis  of  all  "French  candies" — chocolate  creams, 
nut  creams,  stuffed  dates,  etc. 

In  very  hot  weather  chocolate  creams  may  need  to  be  cooled  in 
the  refrigerator,  when  they  should  be  covered  tightly  with  a  bowl  to 
prevent  sweating.  Paraffin  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  may  be  melted 
and  added  to  the  chocolate  to  prevent  running. 

If  sweet  chocolate  covering  is  desired  for  creams,  stir  some 
fondant,  a  little  at  a  time,  into  melted  chocolate,  mixing  thoroughly 
until  sweetened  to  taste. 

In  making  fondant,  if  not  boiled  enough  to  cream,  set  it  back, 
and  cool  a  little  longer;  when  cool  enough  to  beat,  if  it  looks  rough 
and  turns  to  sugar,  it  has  boiled  too  much  or  has  been  stirred;  if  it 
does  not  look  like  lard,  but  is  sandy  after  it  has  been  beaten,  it  did 
not  cool  enough  before  stirring.         M.  J.  K. — "Beach  Batches." 

A  slight  amount  of  cinnamon  in  fudge  forms  a  novel  candy. 

Corn  starch  may  be  used  in  place  of  confectioner's  sugar  for 
rolling  marshmallows. 


"Hamley's  to  be  sure"  for  photographs 


160 


Subscribe  for  those  Magazines  now — "Nasby" 


Fondant.  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  hot  water,  1-3  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar.  Place  on  back  of  stove  and  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved. 
Boil  until  it  threads  or  forms  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Remove  from 
fire  and  let  cool.   Beat  until  stiff  and  knead.       Mrs.  H.  C.  Storm. 

Chocolate  Creams.  White  of  1  egg,  2  tablespoons  cold  water, 
confectioner's  sugar,  6  drops  of  any  desired  flavoring,  %  lb.  of  sweet 
chocolate.  Beat  the  egg  and  water  together  only  until  mixed ;  add 
the  sugar  till  the  ingredients  form  a  stiff  paste — about  a  cupful  and 
a  half  will  probably  be  needed.  Work  in  the  flavoring  with  the  su- 
gar, then  form  into  small  balls.  Grate  the  chocolate  and  put  into  a 
cup  over  hot  water,  to  melt ;  dip  the  balls  into  it,  one  at  a  time,  using 
a  fork  for  the  dipping.  Lay  separately  on  waxed  paper,  and  if 
necessary  dip  a  second  time.  Irma  M.  Hubbell. 

Fig  Creams.  Quarter  small  figs  with  a  sharp  knife  so  as  to 
leave  the  quarters  connected  at  the  stem.  Color  and  flavor  French 
cream  or  fondant  as  desired,  roll  flat,  cut  into  strips  of  the  thickness 
of  the  little  finger ;  cut  off  pieces  somewhat  shorter  than  the  fig,  and 
place  in  each  fig,  closing  the  quarters  about  it.  Dip  the  whole  in 
French  cream  or  fondant.  Or  cut  dry  figs  in  strips  and  wrap  the  in- 
ner seed  side  around  a  piece  of  fondant.  Cut  to  any  desired  shape. 
Chop  any  desired  nut  or  mixture  of  nuts  very  fine,  and  stir  with  the 
sugar  into  French  cream.  Mold  to  fancy  shapes  and  tint  or  flavor 
as  desired.  Mrs.  L.  T.  Martensen. 

Orange  Drops.  Grate  the  rind  of  1  orange  and  squeeze  the 
juice ;  add  to  this  a  pinch  of  tartaric  acid.  Then  stir  in  confection- 
er's sugar  until  it  is  stiff  enough  to  form  into  small  balls. 

Pearl  Hoffman. 

Lemon  Drops.  Upon  a  coffee-cup  of  finely  powdered  sugar 
pour  just  enough  lemon  juice  to  dissolve  it,  and  boil  it  so  that  it  ap- 
pears brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water ;  drop  this  on  buttered  plates 
in  drops ;  set  away  to  cool  and  harden.  Mrs.  Asa  Reel. 

Maple  Balls.  2  cups  maple  sugar,  1  cup  water,  cook  without 
stirring,  and  when  it  becomes  brittle  dropped  in  water,  add  heaping 
tablespoon  butter.  Beat  until  creamy;  make  into  balls;  add  halves 
of  English  walnuts  on  both  sides.   Lay  on  buttered  paper  to  harden. 

Pearl  Hoffman. 


The  Hoover  Suction  Sweeper  at  Martensen's 


Linens !  yes  you  get  better  linens  at  Martensen's 


161 


Marshmaliow  Fudges.  2  cups  sugar  (C),  2-3  cup  milk;  boil 
as  for  fudge,  when  done  add  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and 
y2  pound  marshmallows,  1  cup  nuts ;  stir  until  thick. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Honse-Cowen. 

California  Fudge.  4  cups  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  seeded  raisins  put  through  a  meat  chopper. 
Cook  until  it  will  form  a  ball  in  cold  water,  stirring  constantly.  Re- 
move from  fire,  place  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  beat  until  thick. 
Pour  out  in  pans  and  let  cool.  Mrs.  Bess  Wendell. 

Mints.  Place  in  a  saucepan  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup 
water,  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and  y2  teaspoon  glycerin.  Boil 
to  a  soft  ball  stage,  then  remove  from  the  fire  and  flavor  with  pepper- 
mint. Pour  on  a  platter  and  stir  with  a  spoon  until  it  begins  to 
stiffen,  then  take  up  into  hands  and  knead  until  soft  and  creamy; 
mould  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  Bess  Wendell. 

Chocolate  Fudges.  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 
butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  20  minutes.  Remove  from  fire 
and  stir  y  cake  unsweetened  chocolate,  grated  fine,  and  1  teaspoon 
vanilla ;  y  cup  chopped  nuts ;  turn  in  a  buttered  pan  and  set  to  cool. 
Cut  in  squares  before  too  hard.  Miss  Marion  Kncheman. 

Marshmallows.  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  water.  Boil  until  it  hairs 
up  8  or  10  inches.  Dissolve  4  tablespoons  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  cold 
water.  Then  pour  the  gelatine  into  the  syrup  and  pour  into  a  large 
platter  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  set.  Put  in  a  cool  place  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  cut  in  desired  shape,  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.  Leonard  Gilbert. 

College  Girls'  Fudge.  2  cups  white  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons  corn  syrup,  1  cup  milk.  Boil  until  it 
forms  a  soft  ball  in  water.  Add  teaspoon  vanilla  and  take  from  the 
fire.  Then  beat  until  almost  ready  to  turn  out.  Then  add  1  cup  of 
nuts,  beating  constantly.    Pour  into  buttered  tins. 

Francelia  Nitzsche. 

Maple  Fudge.  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  granulated  sugar, 
24  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  glucose  or  butter.  Boil  until  it  begins  to 
string;  cool  and  beat  until  creamy.  Then  add  1  cup  chopped  nuts, 
pour  in  buttered  pan  and  cut  in  shape  before  it  gets  hard. 

Mrs.  Hugo  Staack. 

See  Mann  the  Jeweler  for  Cut  Glass  and  China 

11 


162 


Meet  me  at  Broxam  &  Hinckley's 


Karo  Fudge.  Grate  2  squares  or  ounces  of  chocolate  and  stir 
into  ]/2  cup  of  milk.  Add  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  and  1-3  cup  Karo 
syrup.  Put  over  the  fire  and  stir  in  2  tablespoons  butter.  When 
chocolate  is  melted,  allow  to  cook  slowly,  stirring  once  in  a  while. 
When  the  mixture  makes  a  soft  ball  between  the  fingers,  upon  being 
dropped  into  cold  water,  it  is  done.  After  actual  boiling  has  begun 
about  5  minutes  will  finish  it.  Take  from  the  fire  and  turn  in  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla  and  beat.  Portia  Butterworth. 

Nut  Creams.  3  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  Yz  cup 
chopped  nuts,  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Let  milk  come  to  a  boil,  then 
add  sugar  gradually.  Cook,  without  stirring,  until  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  in  water.  Take  from  fire,  add  butter  and  let  cool  before  beating. 
Add  nuts  the  last  thing,  turn  in  buttered  pan  and  cut  in  squares. 


Sour  Cream  Candy.  2  Yz  cups  light  brown  sugar,  1  liberal  cup 
thick  sour  cream.  Beat  sugar  and  cream  together  until  there  are 
no  lumps.  Place  on  hot  fire  until  the  mixture  boils  well,  then  cook 
slowly  until  a  soft  ball  may  be  formed  in  cold  water.  Remove  pan 
from  fire  and  set  in  basin  of  cold  water.  While  still  hot  add  1  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla,  stiring  in  well,  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  When 
the  heat  of  the  candy  has  melted  the  butter  remove  pan  from  water 
and  beat  until  creamy.  Gladys  G.  Banghart. 

Pastor's  Favorite.    2  cups  light  brown  sugar,  1-3  cup  milk  or 

cream,  small  spoon  burnt  sugar,  1  cup  nut  meats,  a  little  vanilla. 
Cook  sugar  and  milk  together  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball  in  water.  Do 
not  stir  after  sugar  is  dissolved.  Remove  from  fire  and  let  stand  un- 
til cool.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  harden  and  add  nut  meats  and  van- 
illa.   Put  in  a  lump  of  butter  just  before  taking  from  fire. 


Penochi.    3  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  water,  butter.    Cook  un- 
til it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  water.   Add  a  little  vanilla.    Let  cool.  Beat 


Hickory  Nut  Candy.  1  cup  hickory  nuts,  2  cups  sugar,  J/2  cup 
water.  Boil  sugar  and  water  without  stirring  until  thick  enough  to 
thread;  flavor  to  suit  taste  with  vanilla.  Set  in  cold  water,  stir 
quickly  until  white,  then  stir  in  the  nuts  and  turn  into  flat  tin.  When 


I  mo  gene  Mitchell. 


Mrs.  Ruring. 


in  cup  of  nuts. 


Mrs.  Norma  Hurd. 


cold  cut  into  squares. 


Mrs.  Edward  Luckiesh. 


Majestic  and  Riverside  Range: 


•Ringlep  Hardware  Co. 


Alf.  S.  ("Nasby")  Butterworth,  136  Main  Street 


163 


Hickory  Nut  Roll  Candy.  I  cup  light  brown  sugar,  y2  cup 
thick  cream,  2  tablespoons  butter.  Cook  all  together  until  it  threads. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  add  1  cup  rolled  nut  meats  and  beat  until  it 
thickens.  Have  ready  a  clean,  long  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water. 
Pour  the  candy  on  it  and  roll  into  a  long  roll.  Set  on  a  plate  to 
harden  and  then  cut.  Delia  and  Mildred  Wray. 

Foundation  Fudge.  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk.  Boil  milk  and 
sugar  together  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Remove  from  fire  and  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  a  tablespoon  butter. 
When  the  heat  of  the  candy  has  melted  the  butter  remove  pan  from 
water,  and  beat  until  creamy.  Dates,  raisins,  nuts,  cocoanut,  or  a 
combination  of  any  two  may  be  added. 

Mexican  Kisses.  Dissolve  3  cups  brown  sugar  in  1  cup  boiling 
milk.  When  it  boils  again  add  1  tablespoon  butter.  Let  boil  with- 
out stirring  until  a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  can  be  made  into  a 
firm  ball ;  remove  from  the  fire ;  after  standing  5  minutes  beat  5  min- 
utes, adding  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  1  pound  blanched  almonds, 
or  other  nuts  may  be  used.   Drop  on  oiled  paper. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Avery. 

Kisses.  Whites  of  3  eggs,  pint  of  sugar.  Beat  until  stiff.  Add 
flavoring  of  nutmeg  or  vanilla  beans.  Drop  on  oiled  paper  and  bake 
slowly.  Mary  von  Schrader. 

Cinnamon  Balls.  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  syrup,  small  piece  of  but- 
ter. Boil  until  it  forms  ball  in  water.  Then  add  20  drops  of  oil  of 
cinnamon.    Make  into  balls.    Place  on  oiled  paper. 

Madge  Davis. 

Divinity  Candy.  Boil  together  3  cups  sugar,  1  cup  corn  syrup 
and  y2  cup  water  to  the  crack  stage.  Pour  over  the  beaten  whites  of 
3  eggs  and  beat  rapidly.  As  it  thickens  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and 
1  cup  chopped  nuts.  Pour  into  greased  plate  and  cut  into  squares, 
or  mould  in  a  box  lined  with  oiled  paper.  Mrs.  A.  W .  Sokol. 

Divinity  Fudge.  ( Syrup  No.  1 )  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  water. 
Boil  this  syrup  until  it  threads. 

(Syrup  No.  2)  3  cups  sugar,  1  cup  white  corn  syrup,  V2  cup 
water,   Cook  this  syrup  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water. 


Petroleum  Carbon,  the  Ashless  Fuel — Green  Bay  Lumber  Co. 


164 


Linens !  yes  you  get  better  linens  at  Mar  tenser/ s 


Have  ready  in  a  very  large  bowl,  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  to 
a  dry  froth.  Into  these  pour  slowly,  while  beating,  Syrup  No.  1. 
When  this  is  thoroughly  mixed,  pour  in  Syrup  No.  2,  continuing  to 
beat  the  mixture  until  it  will  no  longer  yield.  It  is  then  ready  for 
use.  The  flavoring,  or  any  chopped  nuts  or  candied  fruits  that  it  is 
desired  to  add,  must  be  incorporated  while  the  fudge  is  still  pliable. 

Mrs.  Maude  Berry. 

Candy.  Boil  1  cup  white  sugar  with  1  cup  dark  brown  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla,  4  tablespoons  water  until  it  threads;  have  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff ;  add  boiling  sugar  and  beat,  then  add 
small  cup  chopped  nuts.  When  almost  cool  drop  on  greased  paper 
and  let  dry.  Mrs  Carl  Moenck. 

Sea  Foam  Candy.  3  cups  light  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  water,  1 
tablespoon  vinegar.  Boil  without  stirring  until  it  will  form  a  soft 
ball  in  cold  water.  Remove  the  syrup  from  the  fire  and  when  it 
stops  bubbling  pour  slowly  into  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 
Stir  constantly.  Beat  hard  until  the  mixture  will  hold  its  shape,  add 
a  little  vanilla  and  1  cup  chopped  nuts.  Drop  in  small  rough  piles  on 
buttered  paper.  Mrs.  Addie  Palmer. 

Maple  Candy.  1  large  cup  maple  sugar,  enough  water  to  dis- 
solve, boil  like  cooked  frosting  and  turn  over  whites  of  2  beaten  eggs. 
Butter  pan,  place  in  nuts,  and  pour  the  above  over. 

Mrs.  Lucy  Van  Evera. 

Peanut  Nougat.  1  quart  blanched  peanuts,  chopped  fine,  sprin- 
kle with  a  pinch  of  salt;  put  2^  cups  granulated  sugar  in  perfectly 
smooth  granite  sauce  pan,  stir  constantly  until  melted;  add  nut 
meats  and  pour  at  once  into  a  warm  buttered  tin,  mark  in  squares. 
1  Yz  cups  English  walnuts  or  almond  meats  may  be  used  instead  of 
peanuts.  Mrs.  Mary  M.  h.  Gruwell. 

Macaroons.  Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  until  light  and  dry,  add 
to  them  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  again,  after  which  add, 
with  still  continued  beating  a  cup  sifted  granulated  sugar,  a  teaspoon 
flour  and  a  pint  of  chopped  nuts  of  any  preferred  kind.  These  must 
be  chopped  as  fine  as  the  sugar.  This  mixture  is  dropped  by  tea- 
spoon on  a  piece  of  buttered  white  paper  spread  on  the  bottom  of 
an  inverted  baking  tin.   Bake  until  crisp  and  brown. 

Mildred  Tabor. 


Garments  of  Quality  "Sunshine  or  Stylecraft,"  at  Lamey's 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Pure  Spices 


165 


Brownies,  i  cup  sugar,  Y\  lb.  butter,  cream  together.  2  eggs, 
2  squares  melted  chocolate,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  1  teaspoon  van- 
illa, 1 cups  flour.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  it  does  not  stick 
to  a  toothpick — not  too  long  or  it  will  be  hard.  Cut  in  pieces  same 
as  fudge.   Keep  in  covered  dish.  Kate  Allen. 

Peanut  Drops.  1  cup  sugar,  J/£  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1  cup 
ground  or  chopped  peanuts,  8  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as  fruit 
cake.  Drop  from  teaspoon  on  buttered  tins,  garnishing  the  top  of 
each  with  peanuts.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Ellis. 

Nut  Crackle.  Cover  bottom  of  greased  shallow  pan  thickly 
with  mixed  nuts,  almonds,  pecans,  English  walnuts,  peanuts,  etc. 
Put  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar  into  a  saucepan  over  fire  and  stir 
until  it  is  melted,  being  careful  not  to  allow  it  to  burn;  pour  at  once 
over  the  nuts  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  Mrs.  Geo.  Reitmeyer. 

Molasses  Candy.  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  1  tablespoon 
butter.  Cook  until  hard  when  dropped  into  water.  Pull  or  not  as 
desired.  Mrs.  John  Harrison. 

Peanut  Brittle.  3  cups  sugar.  Set  on  stove  and  stir  constantly 
until  it  boils.  Remove  from  stove,  drop  in  peanuts  and  pour  on 
buttered  plates.  Mrs.  D.  H. 

Colorado  Peanut  Candy.  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  2  cups 
rolled  peanuts.  Melt  sugar  over  slow  fire  until  thoroughly  dissolved ; 
add  peanuts  and  pour  immediately  on  buttered  tins. 

Miss  Hattie  Miller. 

Butter  Scotch.  3  tablespoons  molasses,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 
2  tablespoons  water,  1  tablespoon  butter.  Add  pinch  of  soda  before 
taking  up.    Boil  until  candy  hardens  in  water. 

Walnut  Molasses  Candy.  Put  in  a  large  sauce  pan  1  pint  of 
good  New  Orleans  or  Porto  Rico  molasses,  1  cup  brown  sugar  or 
maple  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  vinegar ;  mix  and  stir 
until  they  boil.  Boil  slowly  until  syrup  hardens  when  dropped  in 
ice  water.  Take  from  the  fire  and  pour  over  nuts  that  have  been  put 
in  a  greased  shallow  pan ;  when  partly  cool  cut  into  bars  with  greased 
knife.  Mrs.  Geo.  Reitmeyer. 


Visit  Martensen's  Ladies'  Ready-to- Wear  Department 


166 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Peanut  Candy.  iy2  cups  molasses,  i  cup  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons vinegar,  i  cup  peanuts,  butter,  soda.  Let  boil  molasses,  su- 
gar, vinegar  and  butter,  till  it  hardens  in  water.  Stir  in  quickly  a 
pinch  of  soda  and  cup  peanuts.    Flavor  to  taste  and  cut  in  bars. 

Mrs.  Fred  Blake. 

Cream  Candy.  3  cups  white  sugar,  1  cup  water,  3  tablespoons 
vinegar ;  boil  until  it  will  harden  in  cold  water.  Pour  into  buttered 
plates  and  when  cool  enough  pull  until  white. 

Chocolate  Caramels.  Put  2^  cups  granulated  sugar,  %  CUP 
corn  syrup,  y2  cup  butter,  y  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  1  cup  milk, 
into  a  sauce  pan  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  slowly  1  y2  cups  milk  and 
cook  until  it  forms  hard  ball  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire  and 
stir  in  2^  squares  chocolate,  grated,  nuts  and  vanilla.  Pour  into 
buttered  pan  to  cool.  Grace  Crane  Keck. 

Chocolate  Caramels.  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sorghum,  y2  cup 
milk,  y2  cup  butter,  2  squares  chocolate.  Cook  until  just  brittle 
when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Take  from  fire  and  add  nuts,  cocoa- 
nut  or  raisins,  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Pour  into  greased  pan  and 
let  cool,  then  cut  into  squares.  Mary  A.  Hansen. 

Ralston  Caramels.  3  cups  C  sugar,  2-3  cup  molasses,  y2  cup 
cold  water,  y2  cup  new  milk,  *4  pound  butter,  y2  pound  chocolate. 
Put  molasses,  milk  and  water  in  a  kettle,  next  put  in  sugar ;  stir  well 
until  dissolved,  then  the  chocolate  in  a  lump;  stir  until  dissolved; 
lastly  the  butter.  Roast  2  pounds  of  almonds,  chop  and  spread  on  a 
greased  plate  ready  to  have  the  candy  poured  over  it. 

Eleanor  e  Harris. 

Parisian  Sweets.  Pick  over  and  remove  stems  and  stones  from 
1  pound  figs  and  y2  pound  dates.  Mix  fruit  with  y2  pound  English 
walnut  meats  and  force  through  a  meat  chopper.  Work  on  a  board 
well  dredged  with  confectioner's  sugar  until  well  blended.  Roll, 
using  a  rolling  pin,  until  %  mcn  m  thickness ;  cut  in  cubes  and  roll  in 
confectioner's  sugar.  Mrs.  Mary  M.  L.  Gruwell. 

Bon  Bons.  Stone  y2  pound  fresh  dates,  seed  y2  pound  layer 
raisins,  and  remove  the  stems  from  y2  pound  figs.  Force  all  through 
a  meat  chopper  with  pound  of  mixed  nut  meats  (almonds,  pecans 
and  walnuts  are  best.)    Moisten  with  sweet  cream  and  form  into 


F.  S.  Haight,  Confectionery  and  Bakery. 


Subscription  Agency,  "Nasby,"  136  Main  Street  167 


miniature  balls.  Roll  in  confectioner's  sugar  and  then  in  freshly 
shredded  cocoanut.  Marjorie  Harris  Strubble. 

Candied  Orange  Peel.  Peel  of  3  oranges,  water,  sugar.  Cut 
the  orange  peel  into  strips  Y%  inch  wide,  and  of  as  even  length  as  pos- 
sible. Put  into  a  sauce  pan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  bring  slowly 
to  boiling  point.  Add  fresh  water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  again 
and  repeat  the  process,  making  a  third  time.  Now  make  a  syrup, 
using  proportionately  1  pound  of  sugar  to  1  cup  of  water.  Place 
cooked  orange  peel  in  this  and  simmer  slowly  till  syrup  is  almost  en- 
tirely absorbed.  Cool  and  roll  the  strips  in  granulated  sugar.  The 
same  process  can  be  employed  with  lemon  rind  or  grape  fruit  rind. 

Mrs.  Coral  Priaidx. 

Stuffed  Dates.  The  secret  of  nice  dates  is  to  steam  them  a 
very  short  time  to  freshen  them.  Then  make  a  cut  down  the  thin 
side  of  the  date,  and  carefully  remove  the  stone.  Put  into  the  cavity 
either  *4  of  English  walnut  meat,  y2  pecan  meat,  peanut  or  blanched 
almond.  Fold  the  date  over.  These  may  be  served  plain  or  rolled 
in  granulated  sugar.  I  mo  gene  Mclntire. 

Pop  Corn  Balls.  Boil  1  cup  molasses,  ]/2  cup  sugar  and  1  tea- 
spoon butter  until  it  hairs.  Pour  this  mixture  over  4  ears  of  corn 
which  have  been  popped  in  lard  and  kept  warm.    Make  into  balls. 

Mrs.  F.  H.  Wilson. 

Salted  Peanuts.  Heat  in  a  stew  kettle  enough  lard  to  cover  the 
peanuts  used.  When  hot  put  in  the  peanuts  and  cook  slowly  until 
done.  They  will  be  light  brown  in  color.  Then  drain  and  salt  to 
taste.  Mrs.  M.  J.  Allen. 

Salted  Pecans.  Heat  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  heavy  skillet  or 
aluminum  dish.  Put  in  y2  pound  pecans  and  stir  over  fire  until  nuts 
are  thoroughly  heated  and  butter  browned.  Lay  nuts  on  brown 
paper  to  dry  off  all  fat,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.    Mrs.  Frank  Keck. 

Salted  Almonds.  Blanch  %  pound  Jordan  almonds  and  dry 
on  a  cloth.  Put  1-3  cup  olive  oil  in  a  small  sauce  pan.  When  hot 
put  about  l/A  of  almonds  in,  stirring  to  cook  evenly.  When  a  light 
golden-brown,  remove  with  spoon  or  skimmer,  taking  as  little  oil  as 
possible.  Drain  thoroughly  on  prown  paper,  sprinkle  until  all  are 
browned.  Mrs.  Frank  Keck. 


The  Hoover  Suction  Sweeper  at  Martensen's 


168    Martensen's  are  originators  of  better  quality  at  lower  prices 


Chocolate  Fudge.  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  2  squares  bitter 
chocolate,  i  cup  milk,  i  tablespoon  corn  syrup,  i  tablespoon  butter, 
I  teaspoon  vanilla.  Mix  the  sugar,  chocolate,  corn  syrup  and  milk 
together  in  a  sauce  pan  until  the  sugar  is  partly  dissolved.  Cook, 
stirring  at  intervals,  until  when  tried  in  cold  water,  forms  a  soft  ball. 
Add  butter  and  vanilla.  Set  aside  until  very  cool  then  beat  until 
creamy  and  knead  with  hands  for  a  few  minutes.  Put  on  an  un- 
buttered  plate,  and  cut  as  needed. 

Mary  Antoinette  Keegan,  Chicago,  111. 

Sultanic  Fudge.  y2  cup  corn  syrup,  y2  cup  butter,  2  cups 
granulated  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  i  y2  squares  chocolate,  a  little  salt ;  let 
syrup  and  butter  boil  a  few  moments  before  adding  other  ingredi- 
ents; this  candy  will  be  found  to  be  much  superior  to  the  ordinary 
fudge  as  it  is  never  of  coarse  grain ;  let  it  cook  until  a  very  thick 
syrup  before  removing  from  the  fire;  flavor  with  vanilla,  beat  it  for 
a  few  moments,  add  a  cup  of  nuts,  and  a  few  raisins  and  set  aside  to 
cool ;  often  times  the  mistake  is  made  of  not  cooking  it  sufficiently. 

Mary  S.  Sloane. 

Pop  Corn  Crisp.  y2  cup  molasses  or  corn  syrup,  y2  cup  sugar, 
y2  cup  water,  i  tablespoon  vinegar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut. 
Boil  until  very  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Add  a  pinch  of 
soda  and  stir  in  as  much  popped  corn  as  the  syrup  will  take  up.  Pour 
in  buttered  dripping  pans  and  pat  down  a  little.       Bessie  Joiner. 

Candy,  i  cup  granulated  sugar,  i  cup  light  brown  sugar, 
cup  white  molasses,  y^  cup  butter,  i  cup  nuts,  i  small  square  sweet 
chocolate,  y2  cup  sweet  cream,  flavor  to  taste.  Boil  sugar,  butter, 
molasses  and  cream  together  2y2  minutes.  Then  add  flavoring  and 
chocolate  and  boil  5  minutes;  add  nuts  and  stir  until  it  begins  to 
harden.    Turn  in  a  buttered  pan  and  cut  in  squares. 

Nettie  Bowling. 

Sea  Foam.  2  cups  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water, 
white  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Boil  sugar  and  water  together 
until  the  syrup  spins  a  thread.  Pour  over  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg 
and  add  vanilla.  Beat  until  light  and  fluffy  and  drop  by  spoonsful 
on  oiled  paper.  Mary  Antoinette  Keegan,  Chicago,  111. 


See  Mann  the  Jeweler  for  Cut  Glass  and  China 


Distinctly  a  Ladies  Store,  136  Main 


169 


Everlasting  Candy.  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  y2  cup  sweet  milk.  Boil  until  it  hardens  in  cold  water, 
add  nut  meats.  Pour  into  pans  and  when  partly  cooled  cut  into 
squares.  Mrs.  W.  A.  Blessing. 

Fudge.  2  squares  or  ounces  chocolate,  cup  cold  milk,  2  cups 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  i  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cook  this  until  it 
makes  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  stove,  add  vanilla  and 
beat  until  it  begins  to  granulate.  Pour  at  once  into  buttered  pan. 
Mark  deeply  in  cakes  when  nearly  cold.       Mrs.  W.  W .  Benson. 


Studebaker  Cars — C.  P.  Bauch,  Distributer 


Broxam  &  Hinckley  for  Vanilla  Extract 


173 


HINTS  THAT  HELP. 


Lemons  can  be  kept  for  weeks  in  cold  water.  Change  water 
twice  a  week.   This  increases  the  juice. 

Broken  raw  eggs  can  be  kept  several  days  by  covering  with  cold 
water.   When  ready  to  use  turn  off  the  water. 

To  keep  buckwheat  batter  sweet,  in  the  morning  after  baking, 
pour  cold  water  over  the  batter.  In  the  evening  pour  off  the  water, 
which  will  be  on  top  of  the  batter.  The  water  excludes  the  air  and 
keeps  the  batter  sweet. 

To  keep  bananas  from  turning  dark  in  desserts  and  fruit  salads, 
take  a  fork  and  cut  them  crosswise.  They  are  not  so  smooth  as  when 
sliced  with  a  knife,  but  retain  their  natural  color  a  much  longer  time. 

To  keep  lettuce  fresh,  make  a  "bouquet"  of  it,  merely  putting 
the  ends  of  the  lettuce  in  water,  and  it  will  keep  for  two  or  three  days. 

A  piece  of  onion  rubbed  on  gilt  picture  frames  will  remove  fly 
specks  immediately,  and  there  will  be  no  appreciable  odor  from  the 
onion  afterward. 

Always  keep  a  pair  of  scissors  hanging  in  the  kitchen  for  cut- 
ting celery,  trimming  meats,  etc. 

To  keep  the  juice  from  oozing  out  of  pies,  take  a  strip  of  cloth 
about  two  inches  wide,  wet,  and  bind  closely  around  the  edge  of  the 
pie. 

Use  a  knitting  needle  (keep  clean  and  dry  for  the  purpose)  to 
try  cake,  instead  of  a  broom  splint. 

Stale  bread,  if  cut  in  slices,  then  laid  together  again,  folded  in  a 
dampened  napkin,  slipped  into  a  paper  bag,  and  laid  in  a  hot  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes,  will  come  out  like  fresh  bread. 

When  using  stale  bread  for  puddings  or  dressing,  always  soak 
it  in  cold  water.   Hot  water  makes  it  heavy. 


American  Lady  Corsets  at  Martensen's 


174 


Krumviede's  Clothes 


Put  a  little  kerosene  in  the  water  with  which  you  wash  windows 
and  notice  the  shine. 

Butter  well  the  top  of  any  kind  of  hot  mush  set  away  to  cool,  es- 
pecially for  frying;  it  prevents  a  tough  skin  from  forming. 

To  Wash  Flannel  Blankets — i  cake  good  laundry  soap 
(sliced)  and  2  tablespoons  powdered  borax  dissolved  in  a  pail  of 
warm  water  or  enough  to  cover  a  pair  of  blankets.  Set  to  soak  a 
half  hour ;  then  squeeze,  but  not  rub,  them  until  clean ;  rinse  well  in 
warm  water,  and  hang  lengthwise  on  line  without  wringing. 

To  Prevent  Quinsy — Drop  one  drop  of  pennyroyal  on  a 
lump  of  sugar  and  take  it  just  before  going  to  bed;  also  rub  the 
throat  with  the  oil.  If  one  application  does  not  cure,  repeat  it  next 
night. 

For  Sick  Headache — One  teaspoon  of  finely  powdered  char- 
coal in  a  half  tumbler  of  water. 

Toothache: — Take  equal  parts  of  alum  and  salt  pulverized  to- 
gether; put  on  a  small  piece  of  cotton  and  insert  in  the  tooth. 

Cure  for  Boils — Isaiah,  thirty-eighth  chapter  and  twenty-first 
verse.   Go  thou  and  do  likewise. 

To  Remove  Grease  Spots  From  Silks  or  Woolens — Scrape 
French  chalk,  lay  it  on  the  spot  and  put  it  away  for  twenty-four 
hours ;  then  rub  lightly  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  if  it  still  shows,  re- 
peat the  process. 

Pieces  of  white  wax  laid  in  the  folds  of  white  flannel  or  Swiss 
muslin  will  prevent  them  from  turning  yellow. 

To  Preserve  Potatoes  Until,  Spring — Put  a  quantity  of 
powdered  charcoal  on  the  bottom  of  the  potato  bin ;  it  will  preserve 
their  flavor  and  prevent  the  sprouts  from  shooting  out  so  early  as 
they  otherwise  would. 

Death  to  Insects — 2  pounds  alum  dissolved  in  3  or  4  quarts 
boiling  water  and  applied  to  all  cracks  and  crevices  will  keep  out 
ants,  roaches,  spiders,  bed  bugs,  etc. 

Cleaning  Hair  Brushes — Take  a  cup  of  corn  meal  and  fill  the 
brush,  rubbing  gently  with  the  hand;  as  it  absorbs  the  grease  and 


Cook  on  a  Monarch  Malleable  Range — See  Trout  and  Matthias 


All  kinds  of  Pipes— all  prices— "Nasby" 


175 


dirt  shake  it  out  and  use  fresh  meal  till  the  brush  is  thoroughly 
cleansed.  This  is  better  than  amonia,  as  there  is  no  water  to  in- 
jure or  loosen  the  back  of  the  brush. 

Hot  water  containing  a  little  chloride  of  lime,  poured  into  drains 
twice  a  week,  will  prevent  all  unpleasant  odors ;  or  copperas  water 
may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

To  prevent  pink  or  blue  from  fading,  before  washing,  soak  the 
article  in  one  cup  of  vinegar  to  one  gallon  of  water.  Has  been  tried 
successfully. 

When  through  baking  with  a  soap  stone  griddle,  rub  it  clean 
with  sand  paper. 

Ham  should  be  put  to  boil  in  cold  water,  also  corned  beef. 

To  prevent  salt  from  becoming  damp  or  hardening  in  the 
shaker,  place  a  few  grains  of  rice  in  shaker  when  filling. 

Home:  Curds  in  Rhyme; — 

If  poisoned,  take  mustard,  or  salt,  tablespoon, 

In  a  cup  of  warm  water  and  swallow  right  soon. 

For  burns,  try  borax,  and  a  wet  bandage,  too ; 

If  blistered,  then  oil  and  dry  flannel  will  do. 

For  children's  convulsions  warm  baths  are  the  rule ; 

With  castor  oil  dose,  too,  but  keep  the  head  cool. 

Give  syrup  of  ipecac  when  croup  is  in  store ; 

For  fainting  stretch  patient  right  out  on  the  floor. 

To  soak  in  hot  water  is  best  for  a  sprain — 

Remember  these  rules,  and  'twill  save  you  much  pain. 

Old  stockings  split  open  and  sewed  together  make  excellent  dust- 
cloths. 

When  making  lemon  pies,  instead  of  using  cornstarch  or  flour, 
grate  one  potato  to  each  pie  and  the  pie  will  be  delicious.  The  po- 
tatoes taste  much  like  cocoanut,  and  the  custard  is  thickened  just 
enough. 


The  Latest  in  the  Millinery  Line — Martensen' 


mriabt  motor  Car  Co. 

M.  L.  WRIGHT 


arage«« 


CORNER  PLEASANT  AND  OLIVE  STREETS 
MAQUOKETA,  IOWA 


Reiter's 
Grocery 

The  Home  of  Good  Tilings  to  Eat. 

Electric  Coffee 

Thirty  Cents  per  Pound.    Nothing  Better  for  the  Money 

Telephone  409 


Jacket  Store 

SELLS  EVERYTHING  THAT  YOU 
WILL   NEED  WHEN 
COOKING 

COOKING  UTENSILS 

of  the  Best  Quality  at  the  Most  Reasonable  Prices. 


Ol)£  Jacket 

^Ztaquoketa,  TFowa. 


3*fansen  Jproduce 

MANUFACTURERS  OF 

(TreametY  Gutter 

ytlaq  uoketa,  3owa 


r 


Jf?^  l^eeipe$ 

WILL  BE  FAR  BETTER, 

IF  YOU  BUY  YOUR  INGREDIENTS 

AT  

flayes'Cjroeery 


\roi)  \i)  Comfort 

THE  ELECTRIC  WAY 

Jury  J^i^t  ii?to  Day 

The  Edison  Way 

Tfowa  ^Electric  (Tontp ait? 


right  $f  Hon, 


Cbc  Popular  Grocers 

Sole  distributers  of  the  celebrated 

RICHELIEU  BRAND 

of  Food  Products.  Not  the  cheapest  in  price,  but  always 
superior  in  quality.  If  you  want  to  have  the  best  results 
to  be  obtained  in  using  these  recipes,  be  sure  to  buy 
RICHELIEU  INGREDIENTS.    None  as  good. 


DRUGS, 

MEDICINES, 

TOILET  REQUISITES, 

BOOKS, 

STATIONERY. 

A.  M.  Avery,  m.  d. 

MAQUOKETA,  IOWA. 


WALL  PAPER, 
GLASS, 
PAINTS, 
OILS, 

VARNISHES. 


DOING  THE  THINGS  MEN  SAID 
COULD  NOT  BE  DONE 

Has  given  the  world  the  Steam  Engine,  the  Cotton  Gin, 
the  Sewing  Machine,  the  Telephone,  the  Telegraph, 
and  now  the 

Stu6ebaker  Quality 

at  a  price  never  dreamed  possible. 

C.  P.  BAUCH,  Distributer 

MA §>U OKE TA ,  IOWA. 


The  Golden  Rule 

MAQUOKETA,  IOWA 

Always  on  hand  a  full  and  complete  line  of 

Winter  and  Summer  Unci  erwear. 
Dry  Goods,  Notions, 

Kitchen  Utensils,  Crockery,  Glassware,  China,  Cut  Glass 
CALL  IN.   IT  COSTS  NOTHING  TO  LOOK. 

F.  R.  WATERS,  Proprietor 

The  Store  of  Better  Values.  Originator  of  Low  Prices 


u 


LOVELEE'S  CORNER  SHOE  STORE 

CORNER  MAIN  AND  PLATT  STREETS 


Sreadeasy 

The  Great  Health  Shoe  for  Women 

WHAT  PNEUMATIC  TIRES  ARE  TO  THE  WHEEL, 

TREADEASY  SHOES  ARE  TO  THE  FEET 

SOLD   EXCLUSIVELY  BY 

Lovclcc's  Corner  Shoe  Store 


Cfje  daintiest  Presses! 

are  usually  the  quickest  to  get 
soiled,  sometimes  from  accident, 
but  often  from  long  wear.  They 
are  delicate  things  to  clean,  but 
we  do  the  work  by  the  dry 
cleaning  process,  assuring  a  new 
looking  garment  without  the 
slightest  injury  to  the  fabric. 
We  renovate  the  most  costly 
gowns,  suits,  waists,  skirts,  etc., 
for  society  kdies.  All  kinds  of 
altering,  relining,  and  repairing 
neatly  done. 


SANNER  &  GOUCHER 


AUTO  AND  SUPPLY  CO. 


DISTRIBUTERS  OF 


CADILLAC  BUICK 

Standard  of  the  World.  Valve  in  Head 

AUTOMOBILES 


SERVICE  STATION 

Storage  Batteries 


TheTaste-Good  Cake 

"  It's  made  with  Butter  n 

Saves  a  waste  of  precious  time,  strength, 
labor,  and  fuel.    Six  toothsome  varieties  at 

The  Sanitary  Bakery 

J.  A.  SILBERHORN,  Proprietor. 


W 


A  Recipe  Worth  While. 

FOR  THE  BEST  OF  EVERYTHING  IN  THE 

PHOTOGRAPHIC 

LINE, 


Hamley's,  To  Be  Sure 


PATRONIZE  OUR  ADVERTISERS 


INDEX. 


Page 

Batter   23 

Beverages   153 

Bread,  Rolls,  and  Biscuits   31 

Cakes  „_:,   99 

Candies   1 59 

Cookies  and  Doughnuts  .  121 

Eggs,  Cheese,  and  Omelets    _  1  7 

Fish  and  Shell  Fish   1  1 

Frostings  and  Fillings  _._  115 

Frozen  Dainties  _  —.143 

Hints  That  Help  .173 

Kitchen  Time  Table...   4 

Meats   39 

Pies   89 

Pickles,  Preserves,  and  Jellies  131 

Puddings  „   73 

Salads   65 

Soups   5 

Vegetables   53 


INDEX  TO  ADVERTISERS. 


Front  Section  Page 

J.  A.  Wright  &  Son      a 

L.  T.  Martensen  Dry  Goods  Co  _     b,  d,  j,  1 

Staack  &  Luckiesh  —    b 

Green  Bay  Lumber  Co   _   „     c 

Trout  and  Matthias        d 

The  Hand-Fischer  Lumber  Co  —    e 

Lane  Furniture  Co  -  —  ,    f 

Banghart's  Store  for  Men  _    f 

The  Lee-Fisher  Company  .  — .   _     g 

Cundill   . —  —    h 

Lang's  Meat  Market  _    „  „    h 

Lamey's  Department  Store  _   i 

Hoffmann  Bros      k 

F.  S.  Haight     1 

Maquoketa  Light  and  Fuel  Co   m 

C.  A.  Gallagher  &  Son   -     m 

The  Martin  Hat  Shop  „   n 

Ringlep  Hardware  Co.  —     n 

Geisler  Shoe  and  Clothing  Co.    o 

H.  Gale  Buchner  _  —  _  _  o 

H.  L.  Hill  _       p 

McCaffrey  _        p 

Rear  Section  Page 

Wright  Motor  Car  Co     q 

Reiter's  Grocery    q 

The  Racket  Store     r 

Hansen  Produce  Co      r 

Hayes*  Grocery  —  _   s 

Iowa  Electric  Company      _   s 

J.  A.  Wright  &  Son„._    _   t 

A.  M.  Avery,  M.  D  _  _   t 

C.  P.  Bauch      u 

The  Golden  Rule   „     u 

Lovelee's  Corner  Shoe  Store  l     v 

Sanner  &  Goucher  —  _   ....  v 

Palmer's  Auto  and  Supply  Co  _        w 

The  Sanitary  Bakery      w 

Hamley's       _      x 


