■^4  J 


C 


COOK  BOOK 


Boise  Merc.  Co. 

=Limited   

712  Idaho  St.  Boise,  Idaho, 

Cater  to  any  trade  seeking 

GOOD  GOODS 

AND   FAIR  DEALING 

All  Goods  Guaranteed  to  be  Exactly  as  Repre- 
sented or  Money  Back 


"PRICES  ALWAYS  CONSISTENT  WITH  QUALITY" 

Sole  Boise  Agents  for 

JOHN  BROWN  &  SONS' 

Shamrock   Table  Linens 

"Every  cook  praises  his  own  broth."  So  do  we  praise  our 
particular  brand  of  table  linens.  We  know  from  experi- 
ence, that  for  fineness  and  durability,  beauty  of  design 
and  perfection  in  quality  for  the  exceptionally  low  prices 
asked,  there  is  no  other  line  of  table  linens  that  will  com- 
pare with  John  Brown  &.  Sons'  Shamrock  Linens. 

WE  CARRY  COMPLETE  LINE  OF 

Linen  Sets,  Yard  Goods  With  Napkins  to  Match,  Doyleys, 
Lunch  Cloths  and  Fancy  Art  Linens. 

Before  buying  your  new  linens,  give  us  the  pleasure  of 
showing  you  our  stock. 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


Remember 


That  if  you  want  to  get  good 
results  from  your  cooking 
you  must  use  pure  spices 
and  extracts;  these  we  make 
a  specialty  of. 


The  Overland 

Pharmacy 


FineTable  Linens 


Our  Linen  Department  offers  important  advan- 
tages to  those  who  want  the  best.  Complete  stocks 
of  yard  goods,  matched  sets  and  decorative  linens. 


Falk   Mercantile  Co.,  Ltd. 

— ^ — c~Tf 


W. F.  DOLAN  &  CO. 


Fresh  Fruits,  'Poultry  and 
Vegetables 

GAME  AND  OYSTERS  IN  SEASON 

Butter,   Eggs,  Lunch  Goods, 
Cigars  and  Tobaccos. 

814  Main  St.  Both  Telephones  173  Boise,  Idaho. 


COOK  BOOK 


J.  J.  VAN  HULEN,  Mgr.  CASH  MERCHANTS 

Wheeler-Motter  Co. 

(Incorporated) 

WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL 

Dry  Goods,  Clothing,  Furnishing  Goods, 
Carpets,  Linoleum, 
Shoes,  Cloaks,  Suits  and  Millinery 


Idaho  Dressed  Beef 

p  Co  

Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealers  in 

Fresh  and  Cured 

MEATS 

POULTRY  and  All  Kinds  of 
SAUSAGE 

110  Main  St.  Both  Phones,  46 


When  Serving  the  Dainties  in  This  Book  They  Will 
Always  Taste  Better  if  Served 
on  Nice 

China  and  Cut  Glass 

Remember  Ours  is  the  Store  that 
Caters  to  you  in  these 
Particular  Lines 

'Che  China  Shop    SELLER'S    CaPito1  Holel  $lk- 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


Imperial  Paste 
Co. 

BUTTE,  MONTANA 


High-Class  Macaroni 

Vermicilli,  Spaghetti,  Noodles,  and 
all  styles  of  Paste. 

Our  Goods  are  absolutely  superior 
to  any  other  on  the  market,  and 
we  sell  them  with  this  guarantee. 
They  are  made  from  genuine 
macaroni  wheat  and  are  absolutely 
free  from  adulteration  of  any  kind, 
(including  starch,  cornmeal,  chea- 
per flour,  etc.,  usually  added  to 
cheapen  cost)  and  are  absolutely 
uncolored. 

Beware  of  noodles  that  look  yellow, 
the  eggs  used  in  them  will  not  color 
to  amount  to  anything,  and  poison- 
ous coloring  matter  is  often  used. 


Davidson  Grocery 
Company, 

WHOLESALE  DISTRIBUTORS 


COOK  BOOK 


Boise  State  Bank  Ltd. 

Idanha  Building 


Capital  Fully  Paid  $50,000.00 

 officers:  

Jno.  T.  Morrison,  Prest.        H.  R.  Ennis,  Cashier 
John  Ennis,  Vice  Prest.         R.  M.  Roddy,  Asst.  Cash. 

Complete  Commercial  and 
Savings  Departments 

We  pay  4  per  cent  on  Savings  Accounts 
compounded  semi-annually 

The  Accommodating  Bank  Open  All  Day  Saturday 


( Natatorium  Coffee 
<  Natatorium  Tea 
Snow  Drift  Flour 


Natatorium  Coffee  is  the  finest  coffee  at  any  price  sold 
in  this  market.  Packed  only  in  one  and  two 
pound  cans. 

Natatorium  Teas  are  good  Teas.    English  Breakfast, 

Japan,  Gunpowder,  Ceylon  and  Oolong.  Sold 

only  in  packages. 
Snow  Drift  Flour  sustained  its  reputation  for  being 

the  best  flour  by  taking  first  premium  at  the 

State  Fair. 


Davidson  Grocery  Co. 

BOISE,  IDAHO 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


Three  New  Recipes 


BREAD— 

A  little  flour; 
A  bit  of  yeast; 
Some  skill; 
A  good  hot  oven. 

A  DOLLAR- 

One  nickel; 
Two  dimes; 
Two  bits; 
Fifty  cents 

A  Bank  Account — 

One  dollar  to  begin; 

Ten  dollars  soon; 

Some  work; 

A  little  determination; 

One  hundred  dollars  to  your 

credit  later  on. 


Savings  Department 

Capital  State  Bank 

of  Idaho,  Ltd. 

-  /3  *uo(x*  L  - 


COOK  BOOK 


Wise  Piano  H 


ouse 


Dealers  in  Reliable  Musical  Instruments 


Pianos  and  Organs 
Self-Playing-  Pianos 
Cabinet  Piano  Players 

Talking  Machines 
Phonographs 

Supplies  &  Records 


Boise,  Idaho. 


Baker  City,  Ore. 


Walla  Walla,  Wash 


A  TURNING  POINT 

Your  Son  and  Daughter  Ought  Each  to  Have 

A  SAVINGS  ACCOUNT 

Better  start  them  at  this  bank  at  once,  and  encourage  deposits  to  be  made  often. 
Do  you  know  this  may  be  the  very  turning  point  of  their  lives? 


Get  a  Home 
Savings  Bank 
$1.00  opens  an 
account. 
Do  not  wait 
for  a  large 
sum,  for  it 
may  never 
come. 


We  pay  5  per 
cent  on  Sav- 
ings Accounts 
where  money 
is  left  on  de- 
posit one  year 
or  longer.  4 
per  cent  per 
annum  for 
six  months 


Open  Saturday  Evenings  From  7  to  9 

IDAHO  TRUST  AND  SAVINGS  BANK 

BOISE,  IDAHO. 
Capital       -       -       -  $200,000.00 

B.  F.  OLDEN,  Prest.    JOHN  D.  DALY,  Vice  Prest.    L.  D.  ALLRED,  Cashier 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


A 

Model  Kitchen 

Is  Not  Complete  Without 

A  Great  Majestic 
Range 

2,5000,000  PEOPLE 

in  the  United  States,  now  enjoying  food 
cooked  in  a  Majestic  Range,  affirm  that  it 
is  the  best  range 

IN  THE  WORLD 


THE  GREAT  MAJESTIC, 


It  is  made 
on  honor, 
saves  fuel, 
bakes 
quicker, 
cooks 
better, 
heaviest 
fire  box 


It  is  indes- 
tructible 
made  of 
malleable 
iron. 

Bodies  and 
shelves 
last  a 
lifetime. 


THE  GREAT  MAJESTIC. 


You  can't  do  justice  to  the  recipes  in  this 
cook  book  without 

A  MAJESTIC 

Carlson- Lusk  Hardware  Co. 

BOISE,  IDAHO 

Sole  Agents  for  Southern  Idaho 


THE 

lumbian  Club  Cook  Book 

OF 

Tested  Recipes 


COMPILED  BY 

Household  Economic  Committee 

BOISE,  IDAHO 

1906 


VHSSS  OK 
THE  SYMS-YOHK"  COHPASI 
I  !l  )  I  S  K 


"  'Good  cooks  are  born, 
not  made,'  they  say; 

The  saying's  most  un- 
true. 

Hard  trying  and  these 
prime  recipes 

WiH  make  good  cooks 
of  you." 


The  Columbian  Club  Cook  Book 


Weights  and  Measures 

4  Gills    1  pint 

2  Pints   1  quart 

4  Quarts    1  gallon 

16  Ounces   1  pound 

\  Kitchen  cupful   1  gill 

1  ■ 1  "   J  pint  or  2  gills 

4      "         M    1  quart 

2  Cups  granulated  sugar,  or  1  pint   1  pound 

2 \  11    powdered  sugar   1  pound 

1  Heaping  tablespoon  sugar   1  ounce 

1  Heaping  tablespoon  butter  )   2  ounces  or  I  cup 

Butter  size  of  an  egg   \ 

1  Cup  butter    J  pound 

4  Cups  flour   1  pound 

1  Heaping  quart   1  pound 

8  Rounded  tablespoons  of  dry  material   1  cup 

16  Tablespoons  liquid   1  cup 


4 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


Measuring 

Exact  measurements  are  an  important  factor  in  the  success 
of  cooking,  therefore  a  definite  understanding  as  to  what  a  cup- 
ful or  a  spoonful  means  is  requisite. 

A  cupful^means  one-half  pint. 

A  spoonful  of  butter,  lard,  sugar  or  flour  means  a  rounding 
spoonful,  as  much  rising  above  the  spoon  as  is  held  in  the  bowl. 

A  spoonful  of  salt  or  spices  means  only  as  much  as  the 
bowl  holds,  the  top  being  smoothed  off.  A  heaping  spoonful 
means  as  much  as  the  spoon  can  be  made  to  hold. 

General  Proportions 

5  to  8  eggs  to  1  quart  of  milk  for  custards. 
3  to  4  eggs  to  1  pint  of  milk  for  custards. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  to  1  quart  of  milk. 

2  ounces  gelatine  to  If  quarts  liquid. 

1  tablespoon  flour  to  1  cup  liquid  for  thickening  sauces. 

1  even  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to  1  cup  flour  (less  if 
eggs  are  used) 

1  teaspoon  (level)  soda  to  1  pint  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoon  (level)  soda  to  1  cup  molasses. 

Cooper's  gelatine  contains  2  ozs.  to  a  package. 

Cox's  gelatine  contains  1J  ozs.  to  a  package. 

Baker's  chocolate  is  divided  into  ounce  squares. 

1  tablespoon  sugar  to  white  of  1  egg  is  right  proportion  for 
meringue. 

Milk  is  scalded  when  water  in  outside  kettle  boils. 
Use  arrow  root  to  thicken  fruit  juices,  as  it  does  not  destroy 
color  or  cloud  them. 

Courses 

The  order  of  the  dinner  is  soup,  fish,  flesh,  fowl,  salad,  des- 
sert. These  may  be  supplemented  to  any  extent  with  entre- 
mets and  entrees.  Mets  are  the  principal  dishes;  entremets 
the  dishes  served  between  the  mets.  Entrees  are  dishes  which 
are  served  between  any  of  the  courses. 

%  Outline 

First  Course— Oysters,  canapes,  (caviare,  cheese,  an- 
chovy) cantaloupe. 

Second  Course— Soup. 
Third  Course— Fish, 


COOK  BOOK 


5 


Fourth  Course  -Entrees,  patties,  sweetbreads,  timbales, 
croquettes,  etc. 

Fifth  Course— Vegetables. 

Sixth  Course— The  joint  or  principal  meat. 

Seventh  Course— Frozen  punch,  cheese,  omelette  or  souffle 

Eighth  Course— Game. 

Ninth  Course— Salad. 

Tenth  Course— Puddings,  sweet  souffle,  Bavarian  cream, 

etc. 

Eleventh  Course— Ice  cream  or  frozen  desserts. 
Twelfth  Course— Coffee,  liquors. 

Of  the  course  given  the  first,  fourth,  fifth  (vegetables 
served  separately)  seventh,  and  a  choice  of  either  the  tenth  or 
eleventh  may  all  be  omitted. 


...  SOUPS  ... 


"Too  many  cooks  spoil  the  broth." 

In  no  way  can  the  small  odds  and  ends  of 
various  things  be  used  more  satisfactorily  than  in 
the  making  of  soups.  Stock  has  nutritive  value  in 
all  cases,  but  at  certain  seasons  of  the  year  delicate 
cream  soups  are  more  acceptable  if  not  more  whole- 
some. 

Beans,  peas,  the  various  cereals,  macaroni, 
single  vegetables,  or  mixtures  of  many,  all  may  be 
added  to  stock,  milk,  or  water  to  make  soup.  Meat 
should  be  put  through  the  chopper  if  it  is  to  be  serv- 
ed in  the  soup ;  vegetables  chopped  or  put  through  a 
sieve. 

SOUP  STOCK 

Buy  a  knuckle  or  shank  from  the  hind  quarters 
of  a  beef,  or  left-overs  of  beef,  veal,  mutton  or  fowl, 
and  add  cold  water  in  the  proportion  of  one  quart 
of  water  to  each  pound  of  meat  and  bone.  Place 
in  kettle  and  cook  slowly.  Never  let  soup  boil 
rapidly;  four  to  six  hours  is  the  regulation  time. 
Do  not  put  any  salt  or  pepper  in  same  until  you 
have  boiled  it  sufficiently  to  have  the  marrow  come 
from  inside  the  bone.  Add  one  small  onion  stuck 
with  five  cloves,  two  bay  leaves,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Then  strain  off  stock,  put  in  cool  place 
and  allow  the  fat  to  harden,  that  it  may  be  re- 
moved. 


Boise  City  Nat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


COOK  BOOK 


7 


VEGETABLE  SOUP 

Slice  or  cut  3  turnips,  3  potatoes,  3  carrots, 
2  onions.  Fry  in  butter  until  a  light  yellow,  and 
add  1  bunch  of  celery  and  2  leeks,  if  liked,  cut  in 
pieces.  Fry  for  six  minutes.  Add  2  stalks  of 
parsley,  2  cloves,  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over 
1  quart  of  stock.  Strain  or  not  as  preferred.  To- 
matoes, corn,  vermicelli,  rice,  peas,  beans,  a  little 
left  over  baked  beans  are  fine,  and  any  or  all  can  be 
used  to  change  the  flavor  of  vegetable  soups.  In 
the  spring,  green  peas,  shredded  lettuce,  asparagus, 
can  be  substituted. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

Put  a  soup  bone  which  has  considerable  meat 
on  it  in  a  kettle;  cover  it  with  cold  water  and 
simmer  four  or  five  hours,  removing  scum  as  it 
rises  to  top.  Let  stand  over  night,  removing  grease 
from  top  and  adding  one  onion,  one  potato,  parsley, 
celery,  carrot  and  one  can  of  tomatoes,  and  boil 
two  or  three  hours.  Just  before  serving  thicken 
with  flour  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  This 
soup  can  be  strained  or  served  with  the  vegetables. 

Mrs.  K.  H.  Johnson. 

STOCK  FOR  CONSOMME 

This  stock  is,  as  a  rule,  of  rather  better  flavor 
than  stock  made  entirely  from  beef.  Purchase  a 
shin  of  beef  and  a  shin  of  veal,  or  what  the  butchers 
call  a  "knuckle  of  veal.'7  Wipe  both  carefully  with 
a  damp  cloth.  Have  them  well  cracked.  Remove 
the  meat  from  the  bones  and  cut  into  squares.  Put 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  sliced  onion 
into  the  soup  kettle  to  brown  and  burn.  Then  add 
the  meat  from  the  veal  and  beef.    When  this  is 


GET  YOUR  PIANO  AT  EILERS — 709  Idaho  St. 


8 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


carefully  seared  add  the  bones  and  six  quarts  of 
cold  water.  Cover  kettle  and  bring  slowly  to  boil- 
ing point,  then  skim.  Push  the  kettle  now  over  a 
moderate  fire  where  it  will  just  bubble,  not  boil,  for 
three  hours.  At  the  end  of  this  time  add  one  onion 
into  which  you  have  stuck  twelve  cloves,  a  bay 
leaf,  a  sliced  carrot  a  few  green  tops  of  celery  or 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed,  and  a  salt  spoon 
of  pepper.  Cover  and  simmer  gently  for  another 
hour.  Now  strain  the  stock  and  stand  aside  to 
cool.  When  cold  remove  every  particle  of  fat  from 
the  surface,  and  stock  is  ready  for  use. 

This  consomme  may  be  served  with  egg  balls, 
force  meat  balls,  marrow  balls,  spinach  balls,  suet 
balls,  pea  blocks,  tomato  blocks,  curry,  or  macaroni, 
etc.   ,  Marguerite  Nolan  Lemp. 

BROWN  BANNOCK  SOUP 

Have  base  of  soup  ready — salted,  peppered — 
add  1  can  tomatoes,  2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  1 
teaspoonful  cloves,  1  teaspoonful  alspice,  1  tea- 
spoonful  nutmeg.  Strain  and  thicken  with  a  very 
little  corn  starch  dissolved  in  water.  Have  in 
tureen  two  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  a  slice 
of  lemon  for  each  plate.  Add  last  1  cup  sherry 
and  1  cup  maderia  wine.  Serve  very  hot.  Pass 
with  this  soup  toasted  dice  of  white  bread. 

For  ten  people.  M.  E.  Ridenbaugh. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP 

Boil  12  stalks  of  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
in  3  pints  of  water  for  half  an  hour,  add  half 
an  onion  and  two  blades  of  mace  and  pass  through 
a  sieve.  Mix  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  butter ;  add  to  the  soup  Avith  a  pint  of 


The  Beri  Best  Olive  Oil  is  positively  pure.    Joy's  Pharmacy. 


COOK  BOOK 


9 


milk  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  One  cup  of 
cream  added  just  before  serving  makes  a  great  im- 
provement. .Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart. 

ONION  SOUP 

Put  into  sauce  pan  butter  size  of  pigeon's  egg. 
When  very  hot  add  three  onions  sliced  thin,  half  a 
carrot,  2  outside  pieces  of  celery,  and  2  sprigs  of 
parsley;  stir  and  cook  them  until  they  are  reddish 
brown,  add  one-fourth  cup  of  flour,  stir  this  until  it 
also  is  brown.  Add  to  this  one  and  one-half  pints  of 
soup  stock  and  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk. 
Season  Avith  salt  and  pepper.  Let  it  simmer  a  few 
minutes.  Strain  over  dry  toast  in  fancy  shapes 
or  serve  dry  toast  on  table  in  each  soup  plate  before 
serving  soup.  Mrs.  Calvin  Cobb. 

CLAM  BOUILLON 

TAventy-five  clams,  1  level  tablespoonful  but- 
ter, 1  quart  water,  1  small  onion,  1  bay  leaf,  1  salt 
spoon  celery  seed,  1  salt  spoon  pepper. 

Scrub  shells  of  clams  and  rinse  them  well. 
Put  them  into  the  soup  kettle  with  the  water. 
Bring  quickly  to  the  boiling  point.  Take  from  the 
fire.  Remove  each  clam  from  the  shell,  being  care- 
ful to  save  the  liquor  as  you  take  them  out.  Chop 
the  clams,  return  them  to  the  kettle;  add  bay  leaf, 
celery  and  onion.  Cover  and  simmer  gently  for 
30  minutes.  Skim  and  strain.  Reheat,  add  the 
butter  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  A  pint  of  milk  may 
be  added  if  desired.  The  mixture  cannot  be  boiled 
after  milk  is  added  or  it  will  curdle. 

Marguerite  Nolan  Lemp. 

MUSHROOM  SOUP 

One  quart  chicken  stock,  1  cup  mushrooms  be- 
fore chopped,  1  tablespoonful  flour,  1  tablespoonful 


Begin  right  by  starting  with  the  Bank  of  Commerce. 


10 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


butter,  one-half  cup  cream.  Boil  twenty  minutes, 
add  pepper  and  salt  and  just  at  the  last  the  cream. 

Mrs.  George  Red  way. 

MUSHROOM  SOUP 

One  tablespoon  of  beef  extract,  in  1  quart  of 
hot  water.  Add  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  of 
flour  stirred  into  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter. 
Let  it  simmer  or  boil.  Add  1  can  of  mushrooms, 
cut  in  slices  with  their  liquor.  Heat  one  quart  of 
cream  in  a  double  boiler  and  add  just  before  serv- 
ing.   Season  to  taste.  Mrs.  Twiggs. 

CORN  SOUP 

Out  corn  from  one  dozen  ears,  put  into  one 
quart  of  milk,  add  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  Wor- 
cestershire sauce  to  taste.  Cook  in  double  boiler 
one-half  hour.  Mrs.  Dawson.  > 

BISQUE  OF  OYSTERS 

Quart  of  oysters.  One  pint  of  stock.  One  tea- 
spoonful  of  onion  juice,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch,  one  pint  of  hot  milk  or  cream,  two  scant 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Put  the  oysters  on  to 
boil  in  their  own  liquor.  Boil  two  minutes;  drain, 
saving  the  liquor.  Chop  the  oysters  very  fine  and 
press  through  a  sieve.  Add  to  the  oyster  liquor. 
Return  to  the  kettle,  add  the  stock,  onion  juice 
and  bay  leaf.  Simmer  five  minutes.  Moisten  two 
even  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold 
water,  stir  in  the  soup  until  it  thickens.  Add  the 
hot  cream  or  milk,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Do  not  boil  after  adding  the  milk  or  it 
will  curdle.  Bisque  of  Clams  may  be  made  in  the 
same  way.  Mrs.  M.  C.  Ustick. 


Idaho  Hardware  Co.  sell  Bucks'  Ranges. 


COOK  BOOK 


11 


CREAM  SATIN  SOUP 

One  quart  strong  stock,  one  cup  cream — season 
to  taste.  Pour  boiling  hot  on  the  beaten  yolks  of 
four  eggs.  Dilute  with  cream  if  too  thick.  Serve 
in  bouillon  cups,  shipped  cream  on  top  of  each, 
with  a  dash  of  pepper.     Mrs.  M.  E.  Ridenbaugh. 

TOMATO  SOUP 

Cook  one  can  tomatoes,  add  one-fourth  teaspoon 
soda;  strain  through  a  fine  sieve;  scald  one  pint 
milk,  cream  and  add  one  tablespoon  flour  and  one  of 
butter.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  mixture 
together  carefully  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Frank  Coffin. 

TOMATO  SOUP 

Take  1  quart  of  thoroughly  cooked  tomatoes, 
strain  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  fire  and  add 
1  level  teaspoon  celery  salt,  1  level  teaspoon  beef 
extract,  1  heaping  teaspoon  sugar  and  lump  of 
butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Let  boil  for  10  minutes 
and  add  1  teaspoon  of  finely  cut  parsley  just  before 
taking  up.    Serve  with  strips  of  toasted  bread. 

Mrs.  Savidge. 

GOOD  TOMATO  SOUP 

One  quart  tomatoes ;  1  tea-cup  cut-up  celery ;  1 
small  onion ;  1  bay  leaf.  Cook  until  vegetables  are 
done,  then  strain  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
then  add  1  pint  of  any  nice  soup  stock  or  the  same 
amount  of  rich  milk.  If  milk  is  used  add  a  small 
pinch  of  soda  to  tomato  mixture  just  before  adding 
milk  to  prevent  curdling.      Mrs.  IT.  E.  Neal. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP 

Take  one-half  can  tomatoes,  strained,  heat,  add 
salt,  pepper  and  2  tea  spoonfuls  butter,  a  pinch  of 


The  above  receipts  are  A  1.    So  is  Con  Hesse's  Silverware. 


12 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


soda,  heat  a  pint  of  milk  and  when  ready  to  serve 
add  milk  to  tomatoes.         Mrs.  C.  O.  Ballott. 

TOMATO  SOUP 

Boil  together  for  half  an  honr  one  pint  of  to-  , 
matoes,  one  pint  of  water,  one  small  sliced  potato*/^^. 
one  small    sliced  onion,    a  few  pieces  of    celery.  , : 
Strain,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one-half 
cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  cream ^^y^ 
and  level  tablespoon  of  butter.   Serve  immediately  ./w^^J 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Williams.       ±  *  a  * 

TOMATO  BOUILLON 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  one  and  one-half  quarts 
of  unseasoned  stock.  Put  over  fire  and  add  one 
tablespoon  chopped  onion,  two  bay  leaves,  four 
whole  cloves,  one  level  teaspoon  celery  seed,  and 
one-half  teaspoonful  pepper.  Cover  and  cook  20 
minutes.  Strain.  Beat  white  of  one  egg  until 
partly  light,  add  to  the  tomato  and  let  come  to  a 
boil.  Boil  rapidly  five  minutes,  then  strain  through 
two  thicknesses  of  cheese  cloth.  Re-heat,  season 
with  two  teaspoons  of  salt  and  serve  with  tiny 
cubes  of  toasted  bread. 

Mrs.  F.  B.  Kinyon. 

POTATO  SOUP 

Cut  fine  four  medium  sized  potatoes  and  one 
small  bunch  of  celery.  Add  one  quart  of  boiling 
water,  cook  until  tender.  Press  through  sieve  and 
return  to  stove.  Add  one  quart  of  milk,  or  part 
cream,  let  come  to  boil,  season  with  butter,  salt 
and  pepper.  Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen. 

OXTAIL  SOUP 
Put  tail  in  salt  water  over  night.    Wipe  the 


Hoosier  Cabinets  save  many,  many 


COOK  BOOK 


13 


water  off,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  brown  in  a  little  but- 
ter. Then  put  in  kettle  with  water,  boil  a  while, 
then  add  vegetables — potatoes,  cabbage,  tomatoes, 
turnips,  onions,  carrot,  celery,  and  a  little  parsley. 
Chop  all  fine.  Salt  and  pepper.  Boil  about  three 
hours.  Mrs.  W.  B.  Williamson. 

CEEAM  OF  SALMON  SOUP 

Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and 
in  it  cook  thoroughly  (but  without  browning),  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour.  When  the  butter 
has  bubbled  for  five  minutes,  being  stirred  con- 
tinuously, add  slowly  a  quart  of  boiling  sweet  milk 
and  be  sure  there  are  no  lumps  in  the  mixture. 
Then  put  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  cooked 
salmon  that  has  been  pounded  and  put  through  a 
sieve,  together  with  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
a  salt-spoon  of  white  pepper  or  paprika.  Be  sure 
the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  blended.  If  a  rich- 
er seasoning  is  desired,  first  boil  a  bay  leaf  and  a 
slice  of  onion  in  milk  for  five  minutes  and  then 
remove.  To  make  a  very  fine  soup  stir  in  thorough- 
ly beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  just  before  serving. 
Offer  with  the  soup  stick  bread,  finger  rolls  or  or- 
dinary white  bread.      Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart. 

CKEAM  OF  EICE  SOUP 

Cook  one-half  cup  of  rice  in  1  quart  of  cold 
water ;  let  heat  to  the  boiling  point,  then  drain  and 
rinse  in  cold  water.  Add  the  rice  to  2  quarts  of 
chicken  or  veal  broth  seasoned  with  onion,  carrot, 
macaroni,  salt  and  pepper,  let  cook  until  the  rice 
is  very  tender  then  strain  all  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Ee-heat  and  add  1  pint  of  hot  cream  or  very  rich 
milk.  Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal. 


steps.    ALLEN-AVRIGHT  FURNITURE  CO.  LTD. 


14 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


CELEEY  SOUP 

Two  bunches  of  celery  cut  fine,  boil  in  just 
enough  water  to  cover  it,  until  soft,  then  drain  and 
rub  through  a  coarse  colander.  Scald  3  pints  of 
milk,  add  to  the  celery  and  water  in  which  it  was 
boiled:  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  onion 
juice  if  liked.  Rub  together  1  tablespoon  each 
butter  and  flour  and  stir  into  boiling  soup.  Serve 
with  strips  of  toasted  bread.    Mrs.  H.  E.  Xeal. 

CODFISH  CHOWDEE 

To  two  quarts  of  milk  and  cream  in  a  double 
boiler,  add  three  medium  sized  potatoes  sliced  thin. 

Put  on  in  cold  water  one  cup  of  codfish  cut 
in  pieces  about  one-quarter  inch  square.  When 
this  comes  to  a  boil  turn  it  into  the  milk.  Add 
•me  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion.  Salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.    Cook  about  two  hours. 

Yf\  «<Mrs.  Colljster. 

COEX  CHOWDEE 

One-half  cup  Armour's  Extract  Beef  or  any 
good  extract,  1  can  corn,  4  cups  potatoes  cut  in 
one-fourth  inch  slices,  one  and  one-half  inch  cube 
dry  salt  pork,  1  small  sliced  onion.  4  cups  scalded 
milk.  S  common  crackers,  3  tablespoons  butter, 
salt  and  pepper.  Cut  pork  in  small  pieces  and 
fry  out.  stirring  often  to  prevent  burning. 
Strain  fat  into  stew  pan.  Parboil  potatoes  5 
minutes  in  boiling  water  to  cover  :  drain  and  add 
potatoes  to  fat ;  then  add  two  cups  of  boiling  water. 
Cook  until  potatoes  are  soft,  add  corn  and 
milk.  Then  heat  to  boiling  point.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Add  extract  beef,  butter  and 
crackers,  split  and  soaked  in  enough  milk  to  nioist- 


For  electrical  repairing  telephone  Mickle. 


COOK  BOOK 


15 


en.  Kemove  crackers,  turn  chowder  into  tureen 
and  put  crackers  on  top.  Clam  Chowder,  use 
can  of  clams  chopped.  Mrs.  Geo.  Wise. 

NOODLES 

Two  eggs.  Beat  well,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  in  two  very  thin 
sheets,  flour,  roll  up  and  cut  with  a  sharp  knife 
in  fine  ribbons.  For  soup,  throw  into  the  boiling 
broth  30  minutes  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Leonard  Logan. 

NOODLE  SOUP 

One  cup  of  flour.  Break  one  egg  into  the  flour 
and  mix  together  and  roll  out  very  thin.  Let  dry 
until  it  can  be  rolled  together  without  sticking. 
Cut  very  fine  and  cook  in  chicken  or  beef  stock. 
The  noodles  can  be  cut  and  dried  and  kept  indefi- 
nitely. 

DUMPLING  SOUP 

Four  large  tablespoons  butter;  2  eggs;  4  or  5 
tablespoons  sifted  flour.  Cream  the  butter.  Let 
eggs  stand  in  boiling  water  a  minute.  Break  in 
whole,  one  at  a  time,  into  the  butter.  Fold  in 
lightly  the  flour.  Drop  by  the  spoonful  into  boil- 
ing soup  stock.  Laurina  Soxna. 

CROUTONS 

Take  very  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter  well. 
Cut  them  up  in  little  squares,  x>lace  in  baking  pan 
butter  side  up  and  brown  in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Purcell. 


Boise  City  Nat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


16 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


TAPIOCA  CREAM  SOUP 


One  quart  of  white  stock;  1  pint  of  cream; 
1  onion  grated;  2  stalks  of  celery;  one- third  cup 
of  tapioca,  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water;  2 
cups  cold  water;  1  tablespoon  butter;  a  small  piece 
of  mace,  salt,  pepper.  Cook  the  tapioca  in  the 
stock  for  one  hour.  Cook  the  onion  and  celery  in 
the  milk  with  the  seasoning,  then  strain  into  the 
stock,  add  the  butter,  and  serve. 


Two  cans  Doxie  Clams;  3  slices  of  salt  pork, 
cut  in  dice;  2  onions,  chopped  fine;  5  fair  po- 
tatoes, chopped  fine;  3  pints  cold  water;  1  pint 
milk;  butter,  salt,  pepper,  sage  and  summer  sav- 
ory and  a  tablespoon  of  curry.  Place  pork  into 
frying  pan,  with  the  onion  and  fry  half  done,  add 
the  liquor  from  clams,  chopped  potatoes,  and  then 
the  3  pints  cold  water.  Separate  the  clams,  the 
rim  from  the  bellies.  Chop  the  rims  fine.  Add 
this  to  the  chowder  and  cook  from  four  to  six  hours. 
When  nearly  done,  add  the  milk  and  seasoning, 
let  boil  again.  When  ready  to  serve  add  three  soda 
crackers  rolled. 


One  chicken,  cut  in  pieces;  2  quarts  okra,  sliced 
fine;  1  pod  red  pepper.  Fry  chicken  as  if  for 
table.  When  brown,  lift  out  into  a  kettle  and 
cover  with  boiling  Avater,  adding  pod  of  red  pepper. 
Have  ready  the  okra  sliced,  put  in  pan  where 
chicken  was  cooked  and  fry  until  tender,  stirring 
constantly.   When  done  pour  into  kettle  with  chick- 


GET  YOUR  PIANO  AT  EILERS — 709  Idaho  St. 


Mrs.  T.  E.  Logan. 


CLAM  CHOWDEK 


Mrs.  Leonard  Logan. 


LOUISIANA  GUMBO 


COOK  BOOK 


17 


en,  adding  more  water,  if  necessary,  to  cover.  Put 
where  it  will  boil  slowly  (as  it  burns  easily),  and 
simmer  an  hour.  Season  highly,  with  salt  and 
black  pepper.  It  should  be  quite  thick  when  done. 
Serve  with  a  spoonful  of  hot  boiled  rice  in  each 
soup  plate.  (Dried  or  canned  okra  may  be  used 
when  fresh  okra  is  not  in  season). 

Mrs.  G.  H.  Hackett. 


.  FISH  ... 


"Master,  I  marvel  how  the  fishes  live  in  the  sea!   Why,  as  men  do  on  land;  the 
great  ones  eat  up  the  little  ones." 

The  chief  merit  of  a  fish  is  freshness.  It 
should  be  cleaned  as  soon  as  it  conies  from  market, 
wiped  dry  and  put  on  ice.  A  fish  requires  careful 
cooking.  If  underdone  it  is  not  eatable.  If  cooked 
too  much  it  loses  flavor.  It  is  sufficiently  cooked 
when  the  meat  separates  easily  from  the  bones 
and  should  be  served  at  once. 

TO  BOIL 

To  boil  fish,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  1 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar  to  every  two  quarts  of 
water.  Have  fish  entirely  covered  and  let  the  water 
be  warm,  as  cold  water  extracts  the  flavor  and 
boiling  breaks  the  skin.  When  water  boils,  draw 
to  one  side  where  it  will  only  simmer.  Allow  ten 
minutes  to  the  pound  after  it  begins  to  simmer. 
A  boiled  fish  needs  a  rich  sauce,  white  or  mayon- 
naise as  preferred,  and  may  be  garnished  with 
slices  of  lemon  or  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  pickles 
or  capers. 

COURT  BOUILLOX 

Court  bouillon  is  used  for  boiling  fresh  water 
fish  or  others  without  much  flavor.  It  may  be  pre- 
pared beforehand  and  used  several  times  or  the 
vegetables  may  be  added  at  the  time  the  fish  is 


Boise  City  Xat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


COOK  BOOK 


19 


boiled.  Fry  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  chop- 
ped carrot,  1  chopped  onion,  1  stalk  of  celery.  Then 
add  2  quarts  of  hot  water,  1  cup  of  vinegar  or  wine, 
3  peppercorns,  1  bay  leaf,  3  cloves,  1  teaspoonful 
salt. 

TO  BAKE 

To  bake  a  fish,  stuff  it  and  sew  up  the  opening 
or  wind  cord  several  times  around  the  body. 
Dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour  and  lay  with 
slices  of  pork  and  very  little  water  in  a  baking 
pan.  Allow  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound  and  baste 
frequently.  Serve  with  sauce,  garnish  with  lemon 
and  parsley. 

TO  FEY 

Fish  to  be  fried  is  dredged  with  salt,  pepper 
and  flour,  then  dipped  in  egg  and  rolled  in  bread 
or  cracker  crumbs,  or  after  seasoning,  dip  in  corn 
meal  and  fry. 

TO  BROIL 

Fish  to  broil  are  split  doAvn  the  back.  After 
being  washed  and  well  dried  fish  should  be  rubbed 
with  oil  or  butter  to  keep  from  sticking.  The 
broiler  should  be  hot  and  well  greased.  The  hot 
wires  will  sear  the  lines,  which  should  always 
show  on  broiled  dishes.  The  fire  must  be  clear 
and  hot  for  small  fish,  more  moderate  for 
large  ones,  so  the  outside  may  not  be  burned  be- 
fore the  inside  is  done.  When  there  is  danger  of 
this,  the  broiler  may  be  laid  on  a  pan  in  the  oven 
to  complete  the  cooking. 

The  broiler  should  be  turned  as  often  as  one 
counts  ten,  as  the  skin  burns  easily.  When  done, 
raise  wires  carefully  from  both  sides,  so  as  not  to 


GET  YOUR  PIANO  AT  EILBRS — 709  Idaho  St. 


20 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


break  the  meat,  turn  fish  on  to  a  hot  dish,  and 
spread  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Garnish  with 
water-cresses  or  slices  of  lemon. 

STUFFING  FOE  FISH 

Soak  half  a  pound  of  bread  crumbs  in  water 
and  press  dry.  Fry  two  tablespoonfuls  of  minced 
onion  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Add  the  bread, 
some  chopped  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
suet,  pepper  and  salt.  Let  it  cook  a  moment  and 
when  taken  from  the  fire,  add  an  egg. 

SALMON  SOUFFLE 

WITH  SAUCE  HOLLA NDAISE 

One  pound  of  fresh  uncooked  salmon;  12  al- 
monds blanched  and  chopped;  1  teaspoonful  of 
onion  juice;  1  teaspoonful  of  salt;  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  white  pepper;  3  eggs,  whites;  one-half 
pint  of  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Remove 
bones  and  skin  from  the  fish ;  rub  to  a  paste  or  use 
the  meat-chopper;  add  the  almonds  and  unbeaten 
white,  then  stir  in  carefully  the  cream.  Pour  into 
buttered  timbale  molds,  two-thirds  full.  Place  in 
a  pan  of  boiling  water.  Bake  20  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.    Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Beatty.  * 

FISH  TURBOT 

Take  one  white  fish,  steam  until  tender,  re- 
move bones  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt. 

DRESSING 

Heat  one  pint  of  milk,  thicken  with  corn 
starch  or  flour.  When  cold  add  two  eggs  and  one- 
fourth  pound  of  butter,  season  with  one-fourth  of 


The  Beri  Best  Olive  Oil  is  positively  pure.    Joy's  Pharmacy. 


COOK  BOOK  21 


an  onion  cut  very  fine,  and  a  little  parsley.  Put 
in  a  baking  dish  one  layer  of  fish  and  a  layer  of 
dressing  until  all  is  used.   Bake  half  an  hour. 

Winifred  C.  Deary. 

SALMON  TUBBOT 

One  pint  boiling  milk,  1  tablespoon  corn 
starch,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  eggs,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  3  rolled  crackers,  one  small  onion  chopped, 
a  little  chopped  parsley,  1  can  salmon.  Cover  with 
cracker  crumbs  and  bake  one  half  hour.  Serve 
with  lemon.  Mrs.  D.  D.  Williams. 

FISH  TUBBOT 

Boil  four  pounds  of  any  good  firm  fish,  White 
fish  preferred;  remove  all  bones:  shred  fine.  Let 
one  quart  of  milk  come  to  a  boil;  add  one-fourth 
chopped  onion,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  white 
pepper,  salt,  parsley,  and  thyme,  and  one-half  cup 
of  butter  mixed  with  scant  cup  of  flour.  Butter 
pan,  put  in  layer  of  sauce,  one  of  fish  and  so  alter- 
nate, sprinkle  rolled  bread  and  grated  cheese  on 
top;  bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  one  hour. 

Mrs.  George  Clithero. 

FISH  BOLL 

Two  cans  salmon;  pick  out  all  the  good  and 
mince  it  up;  add  3  eggs  beaten;  2  tablespoons 
cream;  1  cup  cracker  crumbs;  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  cayenne;  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter. 
Melt  butter  and  add  the  beaten  egg  and  cream ;  add 
all  to  salmon  and  cracker  crumbs ;  butter  a  nan  and 
put  the  mixture  in  it  cold  and  shape  into  a  roll; 
cover  with  dots  of  butter;  pour  hot  water  in  pan; 
baste  and  bake  brown ;  bake  one-half  hour. 


We  pay  interest  on  time  deposits — Bank  of  Commerce. 


22 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


DRESSING  FOR  BOIL 

One  and  one-half  cups  sweet  cream;  put  in  a 
double  kettle ;  beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  light  and  add 
to  hot  cream;  cook  until  like  custard;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  lemon 
juice.  Lena  Shoup. 

STEAMED  FISH 

An  excellent  way  to  cook  fish  is  to  steam  it. 
Kemove  the  skin,  rub  thoroughly  with  salt  and 
lemon  juice  and  cook  in  a  steamer,  or,  better  still, 
a  fish  kettle,  over  boiling  water.  When  done  serve 
on  a  platter,  garnish  with  parsley  or  sliced  hard 
boiled  eggs. 

SAUCE  FOR  SAME 

Four  tablespoons  melted  butter;  1  tablespoon 
flour ;  cook  till  it  thickens,  but  not  browns ;  add  1 
cup  milk  in  which  has  been  well  beaten  1  egg;  add 
salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal. 

STEAMED  SALMON 

One  can  salmon;  four  eggs  beaten  light;  one 
cup  cracker  crumbs;  1  cup  milk;  4  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  salt,  cayenne  and  chopped  parsley 
seasoning.  Kemove  bones  and  skin  and  mince  fish. 
Mix  all  ingredients;  pour  into  buttered  pan  and 
steam  1  hour;  turn  out  on  platter  and  serve  with 
the  following  sauce: 

One  cup  boiling  milk  thickened  with  one-half 
tablespoon  cornstarch.  Add  liquor  from  fish;  1 
tablespoon  butter;  1  tablespoon  catsup;  1  well 
beaten  egg  and  season  with  salt  and  cayenne. 

Mrs.  C.  0.  Anderson. 


Idaho  Hardware  Co.  sell  Bucks'  Ranges. 


COOK  BOOK 


BAKED  SHAD  OR  HALIBUT 

Wash  and  wipe  thoroughly  dry;  make  a  regu- 
•  lar  bread  crumb  dressing  and  stuff  the  fish  with  it; 
then  fasten  with  skewers  several  pieces  of  salt  pork 
to  the  sides  of  fish;  set  on  a  tin  sheet,  thoroughly 
buttered  in  a  pan  and  bake  about  three-fourths  of 
an  hour,  basting  often;  sprinkle  with  salt  when 
partly  cooked;  slip  on  to  a  hot  platter  and  serve 
with  Saratoga  chips;  serve  Hollandaise  sauce  with 
the  same.  Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal. 

FINNAN  HADDIE 

One-half  pound  Haddie;  boil  and  pick  fine; 
braise  in  butter;  1  cup  cream;  1  hard  boiled  egg, 
chopped  fine;  1  yolk  raw  egg;  1  teaspoonful  grated 
cheese;  season  with  red  and  black  pepper;  thicken 
with  flour  made  smooth  in  milk;  cook  seven  or 
eight  minutes;  put  the  butter  in  the  dish  when 
melted;  add  the  fish  and  cook  a  few  minutes;  then 
the  beaten  raAV  egg;  then  the  hard  boiled  egg;  next 
the  flour;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  add  the 
cheese  last,  stirring  constantly  after  the  flour  and 
milk  are  put  in  until  done.  This  is  enough  for 
four  persons.  Can  be  cooked  in  a  chafing  dish  at 
the  table.  Winifred  C.  Deary. 

BAKED  CRAB 

Line  a  dish  with  mashed  potatoes.  Pick 
crabs  and  put  in  center  of  it.  Then  take  enough 
milk  to  cover  this,  boil,  thicken  with  little  flour 
and  water,  add  lump  of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and 
piece  of  a  lime.  Pour  this  over  the  crabs,  and  bake 
for  twenty  minutes.  This  is  delicious  served  with 
hot  tomato  sauce. 

Mrs.  L.  P.  Grunbaum. 


If  you  need  silverware  see  Con  Hesse,  the  Jeweler. 


24 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


DEVILED  CRAB 

Drain  off  liquor  from  crab — make  dressing  of 
hard-boiled  egg — rubbing  yolk  in  1  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter,  add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
vinegar,  cayenne  pepper,  mustard,  and  salt  to 
taste.  Then  stir  in  one  raw  egg,  add  chopped 
white  and  put  in  shells,  cover  with  crumbs  and 
small  pieces  of  butter  and  bake  till  brown. 

Mrs.  D.  J.  Cohen. 

DEVILED  GRAB 

Take  the  meat  of  two  crabs,  shredded,  a  cup 
of  bread  crumbs,  fvvo  hard-boiled  eggs  mashed  to 
a  paste,  a  tablespoonful  or  more  butter,  a  cup  of 
cream,  season  to  suit  taste  with  salt,  paprika  and 
nutmeg,  bake  in  the  crab  shells  with  crumbs  on 
top,  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  O.  Ballou. 

LOBSTER  CHOPS 

Cut  into  small  dice  one-half  pound  of  boiled 
lobster.  Put  2  ounces  of  butter  into  steAV  pan, 
Avhen  it  bubbles  sprinkle  in  1  tablespoonful  flour. 
Cook  it,  then  add  a  cupful  of  boiling  cream  and  the 
lobster,  stir  until  it  is  all  scalded,  take  from  the 
fire,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  a  little 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Return  mixture 
to  fire  and  cook  to  set  eggs.  Butter  a  platter, 
spread  the  mixture  one-half  inch  thick.  When 
cold,  fashion  into  shape  of  chops,  pointed  at  one 
end;  bread-crumb,  egg,  and  bread-crumb  again, 
stick  one  and  one-half  inches  of  macaroni  into 
small  end  of  chop  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 

Mrs.  Cobb. 


Automatic  Refrigerators  save  Ice  and 


COOK  BOOK 


2f> 


BOILED  SALMON 

Take  from  two  to  three  pounds  oi  salmon,  tie 
the  fish  in  a  cloth  in  order  that  it  may  be  taken 
up  without  breaking,  put  into  salted  boiling  water. 
Boiled  fish  is  done  when  the  flakes  begin  to  sepa- 
rate.   Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Mrs.  M.  0.  Ustick. 

BREADED  FISH 

Use  any  kind  of  fish  that  has  been  freed  from 
bone  and  skin,  cut  into  small  pieces  about  four 
inches  long  and  three  wide,  season  Avell  with  salt 
and  pepper,  then  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  dried 
bread  crumbs  or  cracker  crumbs.  Cook  in  hot 
lard.  Mrs.  M.  C.  Ustick. 

BAKED  SALMON  SPANISH 

Procure  a  small  salmon  that  will  lie  in  your 
baking  pan,  or  an  equal  length  of  the  tail  end  of 
a  large  fish  will  answer.  Clean  and  wipe  dry  and 
sprinkle  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  inside  and  out, 
Spread  with  slices  of  four  large  white  onions,  pour 
oyer  a  quart  of  best  canned  tomato  or  an  equal 
quantity  of  fresh  ones  sliced  and  a  cup  of  olive  oil. 
Bake  sloAvly  to  prevent  burning  the  dressing,  bast- 
ing occasionally  until  the  fish  is  tender,  when  the 
covering  should  be  browned  but  not  burned.  But- 
ter may  be  used  instead  of  oil.  and  any  good  fresh 
fish,  as  large  trout,  may  be  used  in  place  of  salmon. 
Unless  pepper  is  very  strong,  add  a  little  best  pap- 
rika before  baking.    This  is  delicious. 

Mrs.  Charles  Kingsley. 

CODFISH  BALLS 

Put  the  fish  in  cold  water,  set  on  back  of  stove ; 
when  water  gets  hot,  pour  off  and  put  in  cold  again 


foods.    ALLEN- WRIGHT  FURNITURE  CO.  LTD. 


26 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


until  fish  is  fresh  enough;  then  pick  it  up.  Boil 
potatoes  and  mash  them;  mix  fish  and  potatoes 
together  while  potatoes  are  hot,  taking  two-thirds 
potatoes  and  one-third  fish.  Put  in  plenty  of  but- 
ter. Make  into  balls  and  fry  in  plenty  of  lard. 
Have  the  lard  very  hot  before  putting  in  the  balls. 
The  balls  may  be  rolled  in  beaten  egg,  then  in 
bread  crumbs  before  frying. 

Mrs.  M.  C.  Ustick. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL 

One  quart  of  strained  tomato;  1  bottle  cat- 
sup; 2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice;  1  teaspoonful 
onion  juice;  salt  and  tabasco  to  season  highly;  2 
quarts  of  small  oysters.  Put  oysters  in  colander, 
thoroughly  wash  and  drain.  Add  mixture.  Serve 
very  cold.  Mrs.  Louise  Eoff. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL 

Half-a-dozen  little  oysters  dropped  into  a 
glass,  with  their  juice,  a  little  lemon  juice,  four 
miserly  drops  of  tabasco  sauce,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  Worcestershire  sauce,  half  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
tomato  ketchup  and  several  grains  of  salt.  Horse- 
radish may  be  substituted  for  the  tabasco. 

Mrs.  S.  M.  Blandford. 

HALIBUT  WITH  DUTCH  SAUCE 

Cut  a  slice  of  halibut  in  eight  pieces.  Sprinkle 
with  salt.  Brush  over  with  lemon  juice,  and  tie  in 
cheese  cloth.  Steam  over  hot  water  till  done.  Ar- 
range on  serving  dish.  Garnish  with  parsley  and 
lemon  cut  in  fancy  pieces.    Serve  with 

DUTCH  SAUCE 

Mix  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  tablespoon- 


Mickle  sells  electric  fixtures. 


COOK  BOOK 


27 


fuls  of  olive  oil,  one-third  cupful  of  vinegar  and 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  over  hot 
water,  stirring  constantly  until  the  mixture  thick- 
ens. Add  one  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley 
and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne. 

Mrs.  M.  0.  Ustick. 

FKIED  OYSTERS 

One  quart  "extra  select"  oysters.  Drain  and 
wipe  perfectly  dry.  Take  fifteen  soda  crackers, 
crush  fine  and  add  pepper,  salt  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder.  Beat  two  eggs  well, 
Sprinkle  oysters  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  roll 
in  cracker  crumbs  again.  Let  lay  about  five  min- 
utes, then  drop  in  about  two  inches  of  boiling 
lard  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  immed- 
iately. Mrs.  John  Rader. 


...  MEATS  ... 


Always  have  lobster  sauce  with  Salmon, 
And  put  mint  sauce  your  roasted  Lamb— on. 

Veal  Cutlets  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumb; 
Fry  till  you  see  a  brownish  red  come. 

Roast  Pork,  saus  apple  sauce,  past  doubt, 
Is  Hamlet  with  the  Prince  left  out. 

Broil  lightly  your  Beefsteak;  to  fry  it 
Argues  contempt  for  a  Christian  diet. 

The  cook  deserves  a  hearty  cuffing 

Who  serves  the  Fowl  with  tasteless  stuffing. 

Shad,  baked  and  stuffed  is  most  delicious: 
'Twould  have  electrified  Apicius. 

To  roast  Spring  Chicken  is  to  spoil  'em; 
Just  split  'em  down  and  bake  and  broil  'em. 

Nice  oyster  sauce  give  zest  to  Cod, 
A  fish  when  fresh  to  feast  a  God. 


In  roasting  meat,  allow  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  to 
the  pound.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  to  brown  quickly,  then 
let  the  oven  cool  slightly.  Baste  every  15  to  20  minutes. 
Never  put  water  in  the  roaster,  but  pieces  of  suet  or 
drippings. 

Boiling  or  stewing  meats,  if  fresh,  should  be  covered  with 
boiling  water,  covered  closely  and  boiled  slowly. 

Frying— two  ways— in  deep  fat,  and  on  a  hot  frying  pan 
with  a  little  butter  or  fat. 

Broiled  meats  should  be  placed  over  hot  coals. 

Salted  meats  should  be  covered  with  cold  water. 

SERVE  WITH 

ROAST  BEEF — Tomato  Catsup,  Horseradish 
Sauce,  Mushroom  Sauce. 


Mickle  sells  electric  lamps. 


COOK  BOOK 


29 


MUTTON— Caper  Sauce,  Stewed  Gooseber- 
ries. 

LAMB — Mint  Sauce. 

POKK— Apple  Sauce,  Corn  Fritters. 

TURKEY— Cranberry  Sauce,  Celery,  Plum 
and  Grape  Sauce. 

CHICKEN— Currant  Jelly. 

ROAST  GOOSE— Apple  Sauce,  Boiled 
Onions. 

BOILED  TURKEY— Oyster  Sauce. 

BOILED  OR  BAKED  FISH— White  Cream 
Sauce,  Drawn  Butter  Sauce. 

BROILED  STEAK— Mushrooms,  Fried  On- 
ions. 

PIGEON  PIE— Mushroom  Sauce. 
FRIED  SALMON— Egg  Sauce. 
BROILED     MACKEREL — Drawn  Butter 
Sauce,  SteAved  Gooseberries. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Wise. 

CROWN  ROAST  OF  LAMB 

Cut  same  number  of  ribs  from  both  sides  of  a 
rack  of  lamb,  selecting  ribs  on  one  side  that  corres- 
pond to  those  on  the  other  side.  Cut  the  ribs  apart 
at  back  bone,  but  separate  the  chops  no  farther. 
Trim  the  bones  as  for  French  chops,  removing  the 
trimmings  to  make  meat  on  the  chops  of  uniform 
size  and  height.  When  the  ends  are  joined,  a  circle 
or  croAvn  of  meat  is  formed.  Have  bones  samf- 
height,  cover  ends  with  strips  of  salt  pork.  Rub 
with  salt.  Set  in  oven  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes, 
then  reduce  heat.  Baste  often,  and  cook  from  for 
ty-five  to  sixty  minutes.  Put  a  cup  in  center  to  keep 
its  shape.  When  done  fill  center  with  green  peas, 
glazed  chestnuts,  Saratoga,  Bernhardt  or  French 
fried  potatoes.  Harriet  O'Conner. 


Boise  Book  &  Music  Co.,  719  Main  St. 


30 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


POT  KOAST 

Eub  salt  and  pepper  thoroughly  into  a  roast 
of  beef,  then  flour  it  well,  have  a  kettle  on  a  fire 
with  about  a  half  cup  of  butter  in  it.  When  hot 
enough  to  scorch  the  butter  put  in  the  beef  and  keep 
turning  until  all  sides  are  well  seared  over  and  a 
rich  brown,  then  put  in  half  cup  of  water  and  let 
cook  slowly,  adding  a  little  more  water  as  it  boils 
down.  This  is  superior  to  a  roast  baked  in  the 
oven.  Mrs.  Roan. 

POT  EOAST 

Cook  in  an  iron  pot  over  a  slow  fire.  Place  a 
piece  of  suet  or  beef  fat  in  the  pot  and  after  enough 
grease  has  tried  out  to  grease  the  pot  drop  the  meat 
in  and  let  it  cook  on  one  side  till  the  outside  is  sear- 
ed over,  then  turn  and  continue  the  process  till  the 
meat  is  browned,  not  scorched  or  burned,  on  all 
sides;  then  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Do  not 
allow  it  to  boil  hard,  but  simmer  gently  till  the  meat 
is  tender,  from  three  to  four  hours,  depending  upon 
the  size  of  the  roast  and  quality  of  the  meat.  When 
about  half  done  salt  to  taste.  This  is  an  excellent 
way  to  cook  the  cheaper  cuts  of  meats.  The  neck 
piece  will  be  found  tender,  sweet,  and  juicy  if  pre- 
pared as  above.  Economical  not  only  as  to  cost  of 
meat  but  time  and  fuel. 

Mrs.  William  Bryox. 

YEAL  LOAF 

Veal  chopped  raw,  4  lbs. ;  4  soda  crackers  rolled 
fine;  2  eggs  well  beaten;  onion  enough  to  flavor; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  mix  thoroughly, 
adding  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  put  in  a  baking 


Elwell  Kitchen  Cabinets.    Standard  Furniture  Co. 


COOK  BOOK 


31 


dish  (buttered),  pack  it  down  and  cover  with 
water;  put  in  oven  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Winifred  C.  Deary. 

BEEF  LOAF 

Two  and  a  half  pounds  of  round  steak,  chopped 
very  fine;  one-half  lb.  of  pork  likewise  chopped;  1 
cup  of  milk;  1  cup  of  rolled  crackers;  2  eggs  well 
beaten ;  1  teaspoonf ul  of  pepper ;  1  tablespoonf  ul  of 
salt ;  mix  thoroughly ;  bake  one  and  one-half  hours ; 
put  in  the  pan  a  very  thin  butter  and  flour  gravy, 
boiling,  and  baste  often. 

Mrs.  Sarah  S.  Long. 

BEEFSTEAK  EOLLS 

Prepare  a  dressing  such  as  you  use  for  turkey 
or  duck.  Take  a  round  steak,  pound  it,  season  well 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  butter ;  spread  over  it  the 
dressing ;  lap  over  the  ends,  roll  the  steak  up  tightly 
and  tie  closely;  spread  2  great  spoonsful  of  butter 
over  the  steak  and  bake  in  the  oven  about  1  hour 
and  serve  hot  with  brown  gravy. 

Mrs.  Sarah  Coffin. 

MOCK  DUCK 

Two  Pork  Tenderloins  as  near  the  same  size  as 
possible.  Cut  into  each  one  down  the  middle  and 
on  each  side,  but  not  through ;  grate  dry  bread, 
about  one  and  one-half  cups  of  crumbs;  season  it 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  but- 
ter and  a  little  chopped  onion  or  onion-juice,  if 
liked ;  put  this  dressing  between  the  two  tenderloins, 
tie  with  a  string  and  bake  about  2  hours  or  less. 
Make  pan  gravy  to  serve  with  it,  if  desired. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Hoover. 


Latham  for  Pure  Maple  Sugar  and  Buckwheat. 


32 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


MEAT  BALLS 

Cup  of  finely  chopped  meat;  2  cups  of  mashed 
potatoes;  1  egg;  enough  sweet  milk  to  moisten;  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper ;  beat  well ;  roll  into  balls ; 
(if  desired)  dip  in  egg  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs 
before  frying.  Mrs.  E.  L.  Wells. 

RISSOLES  OF  COLD  MEAT 

Chop  cold  meat  very  fine;  add  a  little  onion, 
parsley,  pepper,  salt  and  spice;  1  egg  and  milk  until 
the  mixture  is  pretty  wet;  put  some  stock  (or  milk 
and  water)  into  a  frying  pan,  and  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg ;  1  tablespoon  of  flour.  When  this 
boils  put  in  the  mixture,  let  it  simmer  till  thick, 
then  put  to  cool.  When  cold  cut  in  small  pieces, 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry 
in  hot  lard.  Mrs.  Roan. 

PORK  OR  LAMB  CHOPS. 

Cut  one-half  inch  thick.  Dip  it  in  egg  and 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  until  thoroughly 
done  and  well  browned. 

TO  PICKLE  HAMS. 

To  four  gallons  water  use  two  and  one-half 
pounds  brown  sugar,  six  pounds  salt,  two  ounces 
saltpeter.  Boil  and  skim.  When  cold  put  in  the 
hams  and  let  them  remain  six  weeks.  Then  remove 
and  hang  in  a  dry  cool  place.    Tavo  hams. 

Georgia  T.  Yates. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

Remove  large  bones  from  cooked  chicken;  put 
meat  in  baking  dish.    To  3  tablespoonfuls  of  melt- 


If  you  wish  to  change  your  account  try  Bank  of  Commerce. 


COOK  BOOK 


33 


ed  butter,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  4  cups 
warm  broth  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Pour  over  chicken 
in  dish  and  place  in  warm  oven. 

Crust. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  in  which  you  add 
2  teaspoon  fuls  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon ful  salt, 
2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  rubbed  into  flour,  1  egg 
well  beaten,  in  which  you  add  1  cup  milk.  Add 
this  to  flour,  stir  and  drop  on  chicken  in  pan.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  one-half  hour  or  until  crust  is 
done  through.  Mrs.  L.  D.  Allred. 

CHICKEN  WITH  NOODLES. 

Cut  up  and  put  chicken  in  a  sauce-pan  with 
salt,  and  enough  water  to  cover.  Stew  gently  until 
tender.  Take  out  chicken  and  add  cream,  or  milk 
and  butter.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  drop  in  nood- 
les a  few  at  a  time.  Boil  15  minutes,  thicken.  Put 
chicken  back  into  pan,  let  simmer  15  minutes. 
Serve  altogether  on  a  large  platter. 

Noodles. 

Take  one  egg  and  flour  enough  to  make  it  stiff. 
Roll  out  as  thin  as  possible.  Let  it  dry  a  little, 
then  turn  in  one  edge  and  make  it  in  a  long  roll. 
Cut  slices  across  this  as  thin  as  can  be  done  with 
a  sharp  knife.  Mrs.  M.  H.  Coffin. 

ROAST  DUCK. 

Select  a  young,  fat  duck.  The  lower  parts  of 
the  legs  and  webbing  of  the  feet  should  be  soft. 
Singe  and  draw  the  duck  in  the  same  manner  as  a 
chicken.  Wipe  it  inside  and  out  with  a  damp  cloth. 
Weigh,  and  fill  with  potato  or  bread  stuffing.  Truss 


If  you  want  spices  that  you  know  arc  pure  go  to  Joy's. 


34 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


in  the  same  way  as  a  chicken.  Place  on  a  rack 
in  a  baking  pan,  cover  the  breast  with  slices  of 
bacon,  and  put  one-half  cup  water  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  salt  in  the  pan.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  al- 
lowing 20  minutes  for  every  pound,  and  40  minutes 
over.   Serve  with  giblet  sauce. 

Mrs.  Ridenbaugh. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN. 

Wash  and  cut  up  chicken,  wipe  dry.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  dredge  with  flour.  Take 
your  roaster,  pack  yonr  chicken  in  quite  closely, 
laying  pieces  of  butter  between  each  layer.  Pour 
in  (boiling)  water,  the  older  the  chicken  the  more 
water.  Cover  lightly,  place  in  a  hot  oven,  add  more 
water  if  necessary  and  when  tender,  brown  well. 
Boil  sweet  potatoes  until  tender,  peel  and  add  to 
chicken  and  brown.   Serve  with  currant  jelly. 

Mrs.  L.  Logan. 

SCRAPPEL. 

Take  the  head  and  tongue  and  any  lean  scraps 
of  pork,  and  boil  until  the  flesh  slips  from  the 
bones.  iRemove  the  fat,  gristle  and  bones  and  then 
chop  fine.  Set  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was 
boiled  aside  to  cool.  Take  off  the  fat.  Return  to 
the  fire  and  when  it  is  boiling  put  in  the  meat,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  and  when  it  is  boiling 
hard  stir  in  corn  meal,  as  you  would  for  corn  meal 
mush — from  the  hand — stirring  constantly  for  10 
minutes.  Then  let  it  cook  1  hour  on  the  back  of  the 
stove.  Pour  into  long  tins  about  3  inches  deep, 
and  set  aAvay  in  a  cold  place.  When  you  are  ready 
to  use  cut  in  slices  and  fry  brown.    For  breakfast. 

Mrs.  Leonard  Logan. 


Fine  Watch  Repairing  at  Eastern    Prices.      Evans  the 


COOK  BOOK 


35 


CHICKEN  TERRAPIN. 

Cook  and  cut  chicken  as  for  salad;  one  quart 
of  the  meat,  3  hard  boiled  eggs,  one-quarter  teaspoon 
ground  mace;  1  tablespoon  flour;  1  gill  sherry: 
one-fourth  pound  butter ;  1  cup  cream ;  salt  and  cay- 
enne to  taste.  Rub  butter  and  flour  together,  add 
seasoning  and  cream,  and  place  over  a  moderate 
fire.  Mix  the  finely  chopped  white  of  eggs  with  the 
chicken  and  turn  into  the  sauce,  with  the  egg  yolks 
that  have  been  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  with 
cream.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  it  comes  to  boiling, 
add  wine,  and  serve,  at  once,  in  timbale  cases,  or 
cups.  Calves'  Liver,  after  parboiling  15  minutes, 
is  delicious  dressed  in  the  same  manner.  Also  cold 
roast  turkey  or  veal. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Richardson. 

FRIED  CHICKEN. 

Prepare  chicken  in  usual  way.  Dredge  tho- 
roughly in  well  salted  flour.  Brown  evenly  and 
quickly  in  one  tablespoon  lard  and  two  of  butter. 
Add  one  pint  hot  water  and  let  steam  until  tender. 

Dolly  Twitchell. 


Jeweler. 


36 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


...SAUCES  ..: 


WHITE  SAUCE. 

One  tablespoonful  butter;  1  tablespoonful 
flour;  1  cup  milk;  one-half  teaspoonful  salt;  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  pepper.  Put  the  butter  in 
sauce  pan.  When  it  bubbles  add  flour  and  cook, 
stirring  constantly  for  five  minutes,  but  do  not  let 
it  color.  Draw  to  a  cooler  part  of  the  range  and 
add  very  slowly  one  cupful  milk  and  stir  perfectly 
smooth.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

SAUCE  HOLLANDAISE. 

One  ounce  butter — size  of  a  walnut;  1  ounce 
flour, — level  tablespoonful;  one-half  pint  boiling 
water  or  veal  stock ;  4  eggs — yolks ;  one-half  lemon. 
When  the  butter  is  heated,  stir  in  and  thoroughly 
cook  the  flour.  Into  this  pour  the  boiling 
stock  or  water.  When  the  mixture  boils,  add  grad- 
ually the  beaten  yolks,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  after 
the  eggs  are  in.  Remove  the  sauce  from  the  fire 
as  soon  as  the  eggs  are  set  and  add  the  lemon  juice. 
It  should  be  like  thick  cream.  Serve  hot.  Deli- 
cious with  fish  or  cauliflower. 

Mrs.  Beatty. 


Buffet  and  Sideboards  at  The  Standard  Furniture  Co. 


COOK  BOOK 


37 


SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

On-half  can  tomatoes,  run  through  a  sieve. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  one  small  table- 
spoonful  flour  moistened  with  cream. 

Mrs.  M.  C.  Ustick. 

POTATO  STUFFING. 

Four  cups  hot  mashed  potato ;  2  teaspoons  on- 
ion juice;  one-half  teaspoon  pepper;  2  teaspoons 
salt;  2  tablespoons  butter;  yolks  of  2  eggs;  one- 
fourth  cup  cream ;  1  tablespoon  parsley.  Mix  onion 
juice,  pepper,  salt  and  butter  with  potato.  Add 
the  cream  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  mix  them  with 
the  potato.    Add  the  parsley. 

Mrs.  W.  Ridenbaugh. 

LIVER  AND  LEMON  SAUCE. 
(For  Poultry). 

The  liver  of  a  fowl;  one-half  pint  of  melted 
butter;  salt.  Boil  the  liver  for  a  few  minutes. 
Peel  a  lemon  very  thin,  remove  the  white  parts 
and  pips  and  cut  into  very  small  dice.  Mince  the 
liver,  with  a  small  bit  of  the  lemon  rind,  very  fine. 
Add  to  these  ingredients  the  melted  butter,  season, 
add  the  cut  lemon,  heat  it  gradually,  but  do  not  al- 
low it  to  boil  lest  the  butter  oil. 

Mrs.  Leonard  Logan. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE. 

(Hot  for  Roast  Beef). 

Four  tablespoons  grated  horseradish;  4  table- 
spoons powdered  crackers;  one-half  cup  cream;  1 
teaspoon  salt;  1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar;  one-half 


Mickle's  irons  save  steps.    Sold  at  Mickle's. 


38 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


teaspoon  pepper ;  1  teaspoon  made  mustard ;  2  table- 
spoons vinegar.    Mix  and  heat  over  hot  water. 

Mrs.  Leonard  Logan. 

MUSHEOOM  SAUCE. 

(For  Koast  Beef  or  Croquetts). 

One  pound  mushrooms.  Peal,  wash  and  drain. 
Chop  fine.  Add  2  teaspoons  salt;  cover  with  water 
and  soak  2  hours.  Boil  gently  2  hours  in  the  same 
water,  pepper  and  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  flour 
rubbed  into  1  tablespoon  cream. 

Mrs.  Leonard  Logan. 


E.  L.  Lason,  successor  to  John  Ennis  Co.    Use  Snow  Bios- 


COOK  BOOK 


39 


..ENTREES .. 


"It  is  the  bounty  of  nature  that  we  live:— But  of  philosophy  that  we  live  well." 

FISH  AND  MACARONI  SCALLOP. 

Put  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  in  layers, 
equal  parts  of  cold  cooked  fish  and  cold  boiled 
macaroni.  Cut  small,  and  for  every  pint  of  the  mix- 
ture allow  one  cup  of  Tomato  Sauce, 
allow  one  cup  of  Tomato  Sauce. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Fry  one  teaspoon  minced  onion  in  one  table- 
spoon butter.  Add  1  tablespoon  flour.  Cook  and 
add  one  cup  strained  tomatoes.  Stir  until  smooth 
and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Pour 
tomato  sauce  over  fish  and  macaroni,  cover  top  with 
bread  crumbs  and  melted  butter.  Bake  until  thor- 
oughly hot  and  crumbs  brown  a  little. 

Mrs.  Louise  Eoff. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Chicken,  1  pint;  milk  or  chicken  stock,  1  pint; 
flour,  3  tablespoonf uls ;  salt,  one  and  one-half  teo- 
spoontuls  (to  taste)  ;  celery  salt,  three-quarters 
teaspoonf ul ;  mace,  1  saltspoonful ;  cayenne  pepper, 


som  Flour. 


4D 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


1  speck ;  onion  juice,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonf uls ; 
chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoonf ul ;  bread  crumbs,  1 
pint.  Scald  the  milk.  Cook  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether till  smooth  and  frothy.  Then  add  the  milk 
gradually,  making  a  stiff  white  sauce.  Add  the 
sauce  to  the  chicken,  making  the  mixture  a  little 
thinner  than  can  be  handled.  (It  will  be  stiff er 
when  cold,  and  the  softer  the  mixture  the  more 
creamy  will  be  the  croquettes).  Then  the  season- 
ing and  mix  thoroughly  together.  Spread  on  a  plat- 
ter till  cold.  Beat  the  eggs  on  a  plate  till  smooth. 
Sprinkle  the  fine  bread  crumbs  on  a  bread-board, 
take  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  the  mixture  and 
make  it  into  a  smooth  ball.  Then  roll  it  in  the 
crumbs,  pressing  the  ball  into  shape.  Now  place 
the  croquette  in  the  eggs.  Pour  the  eggs  over  it 
with  a  spoon.  Next  roll  the  croquette  in  crumbs 
again.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Hoover. 

FRITTEBS. 

Fritter  Batter:  Two  eggs  (yolks);  1  table- 
spoon olive  oil,  or  butter;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  cup 
flour  ;  one-half  cup  milk.  Beat  egg,  add  one-half 
cup  milk  or  water,  olive  oil,  salt  and  1  cup  of 
flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  drop  batter.  If  for 
fruit  add  1  teaspoon  of  sugar  to  batter.  If  for 
meat  or  fish  add  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  or 
lemon  juice.    This  batter  will  keep  for  days. 

Mrs.  Leonard  Logan. 

CALVES  BRAINS. 
Put  in  salt  water  over  night.    Heat  one  table- 
spoon butter  in  frying  pan,  drop  in  brains,  cover 
till  done.    Beat  three  eggs  with  half  cup  milk, 


A  place  for  everything  in  a  Hoosier 


COOK  BOOK 


41 


pour  this  over  the  brains,  acid  a  little  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Williamson. 

SALMON  IN  MOLD. 

One  can  salmon;  4  eggs  well  beaten;  4  table- 
spoonfuls  melted  butter;  one-half  cup  fine  bread- 
crumbs. Break  up  the  fish,  removing  all  skin  and 
bones,  and  rub  it  smooth  with  the  back  of  a  silver 
spoon,  adding  the  butter  till  it  is  a  smooth  paste. 
Beat  the  crumbs  into  the  eggs  and  add  it  to  the 
salmon.  Season  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  parsley, 
mace  and  celery  salt.  Put  it  into  a  buttered  pud- 
ding dish  and  steam  for  one  hour. 

SAUCE  FOR  SALMON  IN  MOLD. 

One  cup  milk  heated  to  a  boil,  and  thickened 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  and  the  liquor 
from  the  canned  fish;  1  tablespoonful  butter,  1 
tablespoonful  catsup,  a  little  pepper,  salt,  chopped 
parsley,  and  1  egg  beaten  and  added  the  last  thing, 
very  slowly.  (If  there  is  not  much  salmon  liquor, 
double  the  amount  of  butter).  Serve  the  mold 
hot,  turned  out  on  a  platter,  with  sauce  poured  over 
it,  garnished  with  lettuce  and  a  rim  of  French 
peas.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Hoover. 

BROILED  VEAL  KIDNEY. 

Cut  six  kidneys  in  two  parts  in  such  a  way  as 
to  open  but  not  divide  entirely,  and  pass  two  wood- 
en abrochettes,?  through  then:  to  -keep  them  flat, 
sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  over,  dip  in  melted  butter 
and  broil  over  bright  fire.  Serve  with  sauce  made 
of  melted  butter,  chopped  parsley  and  a  little  lemon 
juice.  Mrs.  Dawson. 


Cabinet.    ALLEN-WRIGHT  FURNITURE  CO.  LTD. 


42 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


SWEETBREAD  CROQUETTES. 

One  parboiled  sweetbread;  one-half  can  mush- 
rooms, chopped  fine;  one-half  cup  warm,  boiled  rice, 
season.  Moisten  with  "Cream  Sauce/'  roll  in 
crumbs  and  fry.  Mrs.  L.  Logan. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

(For  Patties). 

One  pint  oysters ;  one-half  pint  cream ;  1  large 
teaspoon  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  come  to  a  boil 
in  double  boiler.  Mix  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk. 
Stir  into  boiling  cream — add  seasoning.  While 
cream  is  cooking,  let  the  oysters  come  to  a  boil  in 
their  own  liquor.  Skim  carefully,  drain,  add  oys- 
ters to  cream,  boil  up  once.  Fill  pastry  shells  and 
serve.    Enough  for  18  shells. 

Mrs.  F.  R.  Coffin. 

POTATO  DUMPLINGS. 

Half  cup  of  raw  grated  potato,  one  full  cup 
of  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  half  tea- 
spoon salt.  Mould  into  soft  balls,  drop  immediately 
into  boiling  salted  water.  Melt  butter,  size  of  an 
egg,  into  which  slice  one  small  onion,  and  let  brown, 
then  pour  over  dumplings.   Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  A.  Rossi. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Put  in  warm  water  for  an  hour  to  draw  out  the 
blood,  then  into  boiling  water,  alloAv  them  to  sim- 
mer ten  minutes,  this  renders  them  firm,  drain,  dip 
in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  then  into 
egg  and  cracker  again,  use  seasoning  to  taste.  Saute 


In  Salad  Dressing  much  depends  upon  the  oil — Get  "Beri 


COOK  BOOK 


43 


using  butter.  Serve  hot,  like  above  or  with  gravy 
and  toast.  Mrs.  C.  O.  Ballot;. 

CALVES  LIVEK  AND  BACON. 

Slice  the  liver  thin — pour  over  it  boiling  water 
— roll  in  flour — have  the  pieces  about  one  and  one- 
half  inches  square.  Slice  bacon  very  thin  and  cut 
in  one  and  one-half  inch  squares.  Take  a  wooden 
tooth  pick,  put  on  a  piece  of  liver,  then  bacon,  then 
liver,  and  so  on  until  full.  Drop  into  hot  deep  fat 
and  brown.  Serve  as  a  course  for  dinner.  Garnish 
with  parsley. 

NUT  CEOQUETTES. 

Chop  one  cup  of  English  walnuts  with  a  hand- 
ful of  toasted  bread  crumbs.  Mix  with  2  cups  of 
boiled  rice,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  and  one  well  beaten  egg.  Shape  into  croquettes, 
dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  bread  crumbs  and 
fry  in  hot  fat,  Mrs.  C.  B.  Hurtt. 

THICK  CREAM  SAUCE  FOR  CROQUETTES 
OR  PATTIES. 

One  pint  hot  cream ;  1  tablespoon  butter,  level ; 
I  tablespoons  flour  heaping,  or  2  tablespoons  corn 
starch;  one-half  teaspoon  salt;  one-half  teaspoon 
pepper;  one-half  teaspoon  celery  salt  and  cayenne. 
Scald  cream,  melt  butter  in  a  pan  and  when  bub- 
bling add  dry  flour,  stir,  add  one-third 
of  cream;  boil,  stirring  all  of  the  time;  add  one-third 
more  cream,  stir  and  add  the  remainder. 

Miss  L.  Long. 


Best"  at  Joy's. 


44 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

One-half  pound  of  chicken — cooked  and  chop- 
ped fine.  Season  with  salt,  chopped  parsley,  celery, 
lemon  juice  and  mix  with  the  "Cream  Sauce"  soft 
enough  to  handle.  Spread  on  a  plate  to  cool.  Shape 
into  rolls,  roll  in  fine  crumbs,  then  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  crumbs  and  fry  1  minute  in  smoking  hot 
fat.    Drain  and  serve  with  Cream  Sauce. 

KICE  FRITTERS. 

One  cup  rice,  boiled,  measured  before  boiling; 
4  or  6  crackers  rolled  not  very  fine;  1  small  onion, 
chopped  very  fine;  2  eggs,  beaten  light;  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste;  a  dash  of  Tabasco,  if  liked;  one- 
half  cup  milk.  Make  into  small  cakes  and  fry  in 
bacon  fat  and  butter. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Hoover. 

MEAT  CROQUETTE. 

Scald  one  cup  of  half  milk  and  half  cream  in 
double  boiler.  Rub  together  1  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter and  2  of  flour.  Gradually  stir  this  into  the 
scalding  milk  and  stir  until  it  becomes  thickened 
and  consistent.  Add  dash  of  cayenne,  half  teaspoon 
of  pepper,  one  of  salt  and  one  of  onion  juice.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  add  one  beaten  egg,  place  on 
fire  for  one  minute  to  cook  egg  and  add  2  cupfuls 
of  finely  chopped  chicken  or  any  other  meat.  Pour 
this  mixture  on  a  flat  dish  and  when  it  is  cold  mold 
into  shape,  taking  not  more  than  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  mixture  for  each  croquette.  Serve  with 
cream,  tomato  or  broAvn  sauce.        Mrs.  Cobb. 


Idaho  Hardware  Co.  sell  good  utensils. 


COOK  BOOK 


45 


CROQUETTES. 

Take  cold  chicken  or  veal,  mince  very  line, 
moisten  well  with  cold  gravy  if  at  hand;  add  one 
egg,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  make  into  small 
cakes,  cover  Avith  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  lard  and  butter.  Boiled  rice  may  be  added  be- 
fore making  into  cakes. 

Mrs.  M.  H.  Coffin. 


46 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


..  VEGETABLES  .. 

"Earth  doth  to  him  her  fulness  yield  3 

All  fresh  vegetables  should  be  put  on  to  cook  in  boiling 
water.  Salt  should  be  added  to.  that  in  which  green  or 
top  ground  vegetables  are  cooked.  White  or  underground 
vegetables  are  best  when  salt  is  added  after  cooking. 
Cook  top  ground  vegetables  without  cover;  underground, 
covered. 

HINTS  ON  COOKING  VEGETABLES. 

TURNIPS.  Should  be  peeled  and  boiled  from 
40  minutes  to  an  hour. 

BEETS— Boil  from  1  to  2  hours;  then  put 
in  cold  water  and  slip  skin  off. 

SPINACH.    Boil  20  minutes. 

PARSNIPS.    Boil  from  20  to  30  minutes. 

ONIONS.  Best  boiled  in  two  or  three  waters, 
adding  milk  the  last  time. 

STRING  BEANS.    Should  be  boiled  one  hour. 

GREEN  CORN.    Boil  20  or  30  minutes. 

PEAS.    Boil  from  20  to  30  minutes. 

ASPARAGUS.  Same  as  peas;  serve  on 
toast  with  white  sauce. 


Boise  City  Xat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


COOK  BOOK 


47 


WINTER  SQUASH.  Cut  in  pieces  and  boil 
20  to  40  minutes  in  small  quantity  of  water;  when 
done,  press  water  out,  mash  smooth,  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

CABBAGE.  Should  be  boiled  from  one-half 
hour  to  one  hour  in  plenty  of  water;  salt  while 
boiling. 

WHITE  SAUCE  FOR  VEGETABLES. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  melted,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  and  stir  tilt  smooth.  Add  one 
cup  of  milk,  gradually,  and  stir  until  thick.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  or  paprika 

CREAMED  POTATOES. 

Cut  boiled  potatoes  in  regular  half-inch  dice. 
Add  to  white  sauce  and  heat  thoroughly.    Serve ' 
with  a  garnish  of  parsley. 

POTATO  AU  GRATIN. 

Put  creamed  potatoes — above  receipt — into  a 
buttered  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  and 
bread  crumbs  over  top  and  brown  in  oven. 

Marguerite  Nolan  Lemp. 

POTATO  AU  GRATIN. 

One  pt.  of  raw  potatoe,  sliced  or  diced;  1  cup 
of  white  sauce;  one-half  cup  of  grated  cheese;  one- 
half  cup  buttered  cracker  crumbs.  Arrange  po- 
tatoes in  layers  in  the  baking-dish.  Sprinkle  each 
layer  with  cheese,  or  omit  the  cheese  and  substi- 
tute a  dredging  of  flour  and  small  bits  of  butter. 
Pour  the  sauce  over,  adding  the  crumbs  last.  Bake 
half  an  hour.    Sauce:    One  tablespoon  of  butter, 


GET  YOUR  PTAXO  AT  EILERS — 709  Idaho  St. 


48 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


heated;  1  tablespoon  of  flour;  one-half  teaspoon 
salt ;  1  cup  of  hot  milk.  Cook  thoroughly,  stirring 
until  smooth  before  pouring  the  sauce  over  the 
potatoes. 

Mrs.  Beatty. 

CREAMED  POTATOES. 

Select  potatoes  of  equal  size.  Boil  them  in 
their  skins  the  day  before  they  are  to  be  stewed. 
Cut  into  thin  slices  or  cubes.  Use  pure  cream  and 
butter,  or  milk  and  more  butter  than  for  any  other 
cooking.  When  they  have  cooked  up  well,  add 
salt  and  sprinkle  with  flour,  coyer  pan  and  remove 
to  back  of  stove  for  20  minutes  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Calvin  Cobb. 

E SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

Slice  potatoes  thin,  place  in  baking  dish  a 
layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs, 
salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter,  repeat  until  the 
dish  is  full.  Have  cracker  crumbs  on  top,  add  milk 
to  within  an  inch  of  the  top.   Bake  thirty  minutes. 

Georgia  T.  Yates. 

POTATO  CHIPS. 

Pare  potatoes,  let  stand  in  water  to  cover 
them  over  night.  Then  slice  them  with  Universal 
slicer  and  wash  through  several  waters.  Drain  and 
roll  in  cloth  to  dry.  Fry  a  light  brown.  Take 
up  on  papers  and  spi  inkle  well  with  salt. 

Mrs.  Loree. 

BEUNETTE  POTATOES. 
Peel  potatoes  and  cut  them  into  neat  squares. 


Lemps — Men's  Hats;  Stiff  and  Soft.   .Popular  Shades. 


COOK  BOOK 


49 


Lay  in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  drain,  and  put  them 
over  the  fire  in  salted  boiling  water.  Stew  until 
they  are  tender,  but  not  soft.  Turn  into  a  colander 
to  drain.  Cook  together  in  a  sauce  pan  1  heaping 
teaspoonful,  each  of  butter  and  browned  flour,  and 
pour  upon  them  1  pint  weak  beef  broth.  When 
you  have  a  smooth,  thick  sauce,  season  with  pep- 
per, salt  and  a  little  onion  juice.  Put  the  potatoes 
into  this,  stir  and  toss  for  a  moment,  then  turn 
all  into  a  greased  pudding  dish,  sprinkle  crumbs 
on  the  top  and  brown  in  a  good  oven. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Purcell. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES  STUFFED. 

Two  cups  mashed  potato,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
ten  drops  onion  juice,  one  salt  spoon  pepper,  one 
salt  spoon  nutmeg,  two  tablespoons  cream  and  two 
egg  yolks.  Add  all  the  ingredients  to  potato,  and 
beat  over  the  fire  until  smooth.  Have  ready-cooked 
one  pint  of  young  green  peas  or  one-half  can  of 
peas.  Form  the  potato  mixture  into  a  ball,  scoop 
out  the  center,  leaving  a  place  large  enough  for  a 
teaspoon  or  tablespoon  of  peas,  put  a  little  potato 
into  hole,  and  mold  again.  Roll  in  egg,  then  in 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat.  Serve  with 
broiled  lamb  chops  or  roasted  lamb. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Haines. 

SWEET  POTATO— SOUTHERN  STYLE. 

Pare  and  slice  as  many  potatoes  as  desired, 
boil  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Remove  them  to 
a  flat  pan  and  take  about  a  cupful  of  the  water 
in  which  they  were  boiled  and  add  one  cup  of 
sugar  and  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  nutmeg. 


We  try  to  Merit  your  Patronage  at  Evans'  Jewelry  Store. 


50 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


Tour  over  the  potatoes  and  set  in  the  oven  to 
brown.  Mrs.  K.  H.Johnson. 

SAYEET  POTATOES. 

Slice  sweet  potatoes  lengtlnvise,  half  an  inch 
thick,  put  in  a  baking  pan,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,  add  a  little  boiling  Avater, 
and  bake  until  done.  Mrs.  Pierce. 

BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Parboil  until  nearly  done,  then  put  into  a 
dripping  pan  with  roast,  either  beef  or  pork,  and 
finish  cooking.  Mrs.  Geo.  E.  Paddock. 

BAKED  BEANS. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  beans  before  soaked, 
soak  over  night.  Boil  all  forenoon,  changing  water 
three  times.  Drain  all  water  off,  put  beans  in  bean 
pot  with  piece  of  pork  or  ham,  put  in  one-half  cup 
molasses,  1  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  red  pepper  and 
one-fourth  teaspoon  ginger,  cover  with  water, 
bake  24  hours.  Effie  GL  Paling. 

BAKED  BEANS. 

Soak  2  pts.  navy  beans  over  night.  Cook  until 
tender.  Put  in  pan  with  1  pound  of  fresh  pork, 
salt  well,  add  two  large  spoons  of  cooking  molas- 
ses, cover  with  boiling  water  and  bake  four  or  five 
hours,  adding  more  water  as  it  boils  away. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Purcell. 

CREAMED  CARROTS. 
Cut  carrots  in  dice,  and  boil  until  tender,  sea- 


Food  odors  will  not  mix  in  an  Automatic  Refrig- 


COOK  BOOK 


51 


sou  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  in  frying  pan,  stir  in  a  table- 
spoon of  flour,  add  cream  or  milk  slowly,  pour 
over  carrots,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Balderston. 

ESCALLAPED  ONIONS. 

Eight  onions,  two  cups  milk,  two  tablespoons 
butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  two  teaspoons  salt, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper,  three  round  table- 
spoons bread  crumbs.  Boil  the  onions  until  tender, 
change  the  water  after  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then 
again  after  the  second  ten  or  fifteen.  When  tender 
cut  in  slices  crosswise,  pour  over  them  a  sauce 
made  of  the  butter,  flour,  milk,  salt  and  pepper. 
Cover  with  bread  crumbs,  bake  until  brown. 

Mrs.  Haines. 

SCALLOPED  ONIONS. 

Cut  four  large  onions  into  quarters,  boil  until 
tender,  drain.  Pour  over  them  one  cup  of  rich  milk 
or  cream,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  butter, 
thicken  with  flour.  Put  mixture  in  baking  dish, 
cover  with  a  generous  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  that 
have  been  moistened  with  a  piece  of  butter  one-half 
the  size  of  an  egg  and  bake  until  a  rich  brown. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Johnson. 

STUFFED  ONIONS. 

Parboil  the  onions  for  one  hour.  Then  cut 
the  tops  off,  and  scoop  out  the  inside.  Chop  the 
inside  and  mix  with  the  same  amount  of  chopped 
veal  or  chicken,  salt  and  pepper,  1  spoon  of  chop- 
ped parsley,  one-fourth  cup  of  soft  bread  crumbs, 


erator. 


ALLEN-AVRIGHT  FURNITURE  CO. 


52 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


and  one-fourth  cup  of  butter.  Put  one  spoonful 
of  the  mixture  in  each  onion.  Then  put  in  a  French 
chesnut  or  three  or  four  native  chesnuts  that  have 
been  cooked  tender.  Finish  filling  onions.  Bake 
slowly  one  hour,  basting  often.  Fifteen  minutes 
before  serving,  sprinkle  tops  with  cracker  crumbs 
and  brown.  Mrs.  N.  M.  Perkins. 

CREAMED  ONIONS. 

A  dainty  way  of  cooking  full  grown  onions  is 
to  bake  them.  Take  off  the  outside  dry  skin  and 
throw  each  one  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  peeled. 
Put  them  in  boiling  salted  water  and  simmer  gent- 
ly tAventy  minutes.  Drain,  put  in  a  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  over  them  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of 
pepper;  cover  with  fresh  boiling  water  and  bake 
for  an  hour.  When  the  onions  are  tender  lift  them 
gently  into  a  hot  dish.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  one  of  flour  into  a  saucepan  and  add  the  water 
from  the  baked  onions;  stir  constantly  until  it 
boils.  Beat  together  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  SAveet  cream;  stir  into  the 
sauce ;  cook  all  three  minutes ;  pour  0A7er  the  onions 
and  serve  at  once.  Mrs.  Meholin. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS.    NO.  1 

Six  large  SAveet  peppers;  1  teaspoonful  salt; 
1  pt.  finely  chopped  cooked  meat;  1  tablespoonful 
butter;  1  salt  spoon  pepper;  1  good  sized  onion; 
one-half  cup  stale  bread  crumbs.  Cut  peppers  into 
halves,  crosswise,  remove  the  seeds  and  cut  off  the 
stem.  Wash  in  cold  Avater;  mix  the  meat,  bread 
crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and  half  of  the  onion  grated. 
Stuff  this  into  the  peppers;  stand  them  in  a  baking 
pan;  put  into  the  pan  the  remaining  onion,  sliced, 


Idaho  Hardware  Co.  Sell  Kookizers. 


COOK  BOOK 


53 


the  butter,  and  a  half  pint  of  water  or  stock.  Bake 
slowly  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  basting  the  out- 
side of  the  peppers  every  ten  minutes.  Serve  as  a 
luncheon  or  supper  dish,  or  as  an  entree  at  dinner. 

STUFFED  PEPPEKS.    No.  2 

Prepare  and  cook  according  to  the  preceding 
recipe,  using  a  bread  stuffing,  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter.  Serve  as  an  accompaniment  to 
roasted  beef,  or  they  may  be  served  alone  as  a  vege- 
table course. 

STUFFED  PEPPEES.    No.  3 

Prepare  peppers  according  to  first  recipe; 
stuff  them  with  a  mixture  of  chopped  nuts  and 
dried  bread  crumbs,  a  half  pint  of  each,  slightly 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Bake  as  directed 
in  first  recipe.  These  have  meat  value  and  may  be 
served  in  the  place  of  meat  at  lunch  or  supper. 

Marguerite  Nolan  Lemp. 

CREAMED  CAULIFLOWER 

Cover  cauliflower  with  cold  water  to  which 
one  teaspoon  vinegar  has  been  added.  This  will 
draw  out  any  insects  lurking  among  the  flowers. 
Boil  in  salted  water  till  tender.  Drain  and  serve 
with  white  sauce.    Garnish  with  cubes  of  toast. 

BAKED  TOMATOES 

Place  large  firm  tomatoes  in  granite  or  earth- 
en pan  with  couple  slices  bacon.  Bake  till  tender. 
Serve  on  individual  plates  and  let  them  be  seasoned 
at  table. 


Silverware — Con  Hesse,  Jeweler1 — Cut  Glass. 


54 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


BAKED  TOMATOES 

Cut  off  slice  from  blossom  end,  take  out  seed 
and  fill  with  dressing  made  of  bread,  butter  and 
seasoning.  Chopped  meat  may  be  added.  Put  a 
bit  of  butter  on  each  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

FKIED  EGG  PLANT 

The  purple  is  best.  Slice  half  an  inch  thick; 
pare  each  piece  and  lay  in  salt  and  water;  cover 
with  a  plate  and  let  stand  an  hour;  wipe  dry;  dip 
in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  until 
brown  in  hot  lard. 

THE  BEST  WAY  TO  COOK  SPINACH. 

Wash  and  pick  the  leaves  from  half  a  peck  of 
spinach.  Have  ready  a  large  kettle,  throw  in  the 
spinach,  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
not  more  than  a  pint  of  boiling  Avater.  Stand  the 
kettle  over  a  brisk  fire;  shake  or  toss  the  spinach 
almost  continually  for  ten  minutes ;  drain  and  chop 
very  fine;  put  in  a  sauce-pan,  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  two  of  good  sweet  cream,  a  dash  of 
pepper  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  con- 
stantly until  very  hot;  add  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  M.  P.  Meholin. 

SAUCE  FOE  SPAGHETTI  TO  BE  SERVED  AS 
A  COURSE 

Heat  butter  very  hot;  fry  in  this  an  onion 
chopped  fine;  add  dried  mushrooms  that  have  been 
soaked  in  a  little  water;  add  that  water  and  the 
thick  part  of  half  a  can  of  tomatoes,  a  small  piece 
of  salt  pork  and  of  lean  beef ;  boil  hard  for  half  an 


We  will  handle  your  account — Bank  of  Commerce. 


COOK  BOOK 


55 


hour;  add  a  pinch  of  cinnamon  and  of  cayenne 
pepper  and  season  with  salt;  strain  this  over  spag- 
hetti that  has  been  boiled  20  minutes  in  salted 
water.  Cover  with  grated  cheese  and  serve  immedi- 
ately. Mrs.  Calvin  Cobb. 

EGG  PLANT  AND  CHEESE 

Pare  a  good  sized  egg-plant  and  cut  in  rather 
thin  slices;  sprinkle  with  salt,  pile  the  slices  and 
cover  with  cold  water.  Keep  the  egg-plant  under 
water  with  a  weight  to  prevent  discoloration.  At 
end  of  an  hour  remove  slices  and  wipe  dry.  Dip 
the  slices  into  beaten  egg  and  line  bread  crumbs; 
fry  brown.  Make  a  cup  of  white  sauce,  put  a  layer 
of  it  in  a  baking-dish,  then  a  layer  of  egg-plant,  a 
layer  of  grated  cheese;  repeat  these  layers  until 
egg-plant  is  all  used.  Put  crumbs  and  cheese  with 
bits  of  butter  on  top;  brown  in  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Cook. 

MACARONI,  CHEESE  AND  TOMATOES 

Boil  macaroni  20  minutes  in  salted  water; 
drain ;  then  put  in  baking  dish  a  layer  of  macaroni, 
then  a  layer  of  grated  cheese  till  dish  is  nearly  full ; 
have  the  cheese  on  top;  season  with  butter,  salt 
and  red  pepper;  then  pour  over  all  about  1  pint  of 
tomatoes;  bake  one-half  hour. 

Mrs.  W.  P>.  Williamson. 

BAKED  MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE 

Break  macaroni  into  short  lengths ;  put  in  boil- 
ing water  salted;  stir  often,  and  boil  slowly  about 
20  minutes;  when  done  turn  into  colander  and 
drain  well.    Put  a  layer  of  macaroni  in  the  bottom 


Buffet  and  Sideboards  at  The  Standard  Furniture  Co. 


56 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


of  a  buttered  pudding  dish ;  upon  it  put  cheese  and 
bits  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  then  another  layer 
of  macaroni;  then  cheese;  add  some  milk;  bake 
slowly  until  brown ;  serve  in  baking  dish. 

Mrs.  Pierce. 

MACARONI  AND  CHEESE 

Boil  one  pound  of  macaroni  in  beef  stock  that 
has  been  slightly  salted.  After  it  has  cooked  till 
tender  put  in  the  baking  dish  alternate  layers  of 
macaroni  and  cheese,  with  a  cheese  layer  on  top, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  four 
eggs  and  add  milk  to  make  sufficient  custard  to 
just  cover  the  Avhole;  bake  till  a  golden  brown. 

Miss  Tage. 

CABBAGE  All  GRATIN. 

One-half  head  cooked  cabbage;  1  pint  white 
sauce;  three-fourths  cup  grated  cheese;  salt  and 
paprika;  one-half  cup  cracker  crumbs;  3  table- 
spoonfuls  melted  butter.  Put  layer  cabbage 
coarsely  chopped  in  a  buttered  dish,  then  layer  of 
cheese,  crackers,  pepper  and  salt,  white  sauce  and 
so  on  until  all  is  used.  Cover  with  crumbs  and 
bake  until  brown.         Mrs.  George  Redway. 

CABBAGE  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE 

Select  a  solid  head  of  cabbage,  cut  into  halves, 
then  eighths;  fill  a  large  kettle  half  full  of  water; 
when  it  conies  to  the  boiling  point  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  to  each  quart  of  water  and  when  it  boils 
again  put  the  cabbage  into  the  kettle;  watch  care- 
fully until  the  water  again  boils,  then  push  to  the 
back  of  the  stove  where  it  can  simmer  slowly  for 
thirty  minutes,  when  the  cabbage  will  be  white  and 


Joy's  Vanilla  and  Lemon  Extracts  are  absolutely  pure — 


COOK  BOOK 


57 


perfectly  tender;  lift  and  drain  it  carefully  and 
arrange  neatly  on  a  platter.  Put  a  tablespoonful 
nf  flour  and  one  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  stir  to- 
gether until  cooked;  add  a  half  pint  of  milk;  stir 
until  boiling  ;  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash 
of  pepper  and  pour  over  the  cabbage. 

Mrs.  M.  P.  Meholin. 

STEWED  CABBAGE 

Chop  cabbage  fine.  Cook  till  tender  in  boiling- 
salted  water;  drain  and  add  one-fourth  cup  vine- 
gar; salt,  pepper  and  butter. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Gibson. 

ELLEN'S  HOT  SLAW 

Let  cabbage  stand  in  cold  water  one-half  hour ; 
drain  and  cut  fine;  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
put  one  teaspoon  butter  in  a  sauce-pan  with  one- 
half  wine  glass  milk;  beat  and  add  one  well  beaten 
egg  and  two  tablespoons  vinegar.  Stir  until  it 
thickens.    Pour  over  cabbage  while  hot  and  serve. 

.Mrs.  George  H.  Roberts. 

RICH  PARSNIPS 

Boil  parsnips  with  thin  slices  of  bacon.  Allow 
the  water  to  boil  away  and  then  fry  down  to  a  rich 
brown.    The  bacon  gives  a  fine  flavor. 

SWEDISH  TIM  BALES 

Three  fourth  cup  flour;  one-half  teaspoon  salt; 
1  teaspoon  sugar;  one-half  cup  milk;  1  well  beaten 
egg;  1  teaspoon  olive  oil.  Put  this  batter  into  a 
cup  and  when  the  kettle  of  fat  is  ready  dip  timbale 
iron,  which  has  been  previously  heated  in  the  hot 


some  kinds  are  not. 


58 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


fat,  into  the  batter.  A  tiny  crust  will  quickly  form 
and  cling  to  the  hot  iron.  Then  brown  delicately 
in  the  fat.  Slip  off  on  to  piece  of  crumpled  paper 
to  drain.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Gibson. 

CKOUSTADES. 

Cut  bread  into  slices  three  inches  thick;  re- 
move crusts;  cut  a  line  around  the  top  of  the  slice 
about  half  an  inch  from  edge  and  carefully  remove 
inside  to  form  a  receptacle;  dip  in  melted  butter 
and  brown  in  oven.  Harriet  O'Connor. 


Fine  Stock  of  Watches,  Diamonds,  Jewelry  at  Evans1,  105 
South  10th  Street. 


COOK  BOOK 


59 


....  EGGS  .... 


"There  is  a  best-way  of  doing  everything,  even  if  it  be  to  boil  an  egg— Emerson." 

To  have  eggs  fresh  and  rightly  cooked,  is  with- 
in the  power  of  the  simplest  household.  The  orig- 
inal ways  of  cooking  seem  limited  to  baking,  boil- 
ing, frying  and  poaching,  but  each  one  of  these  pro- 
cesses can  be  so  varied  by  sauces  and  garnishes  as 
to  furnish  a  variety  of  palatable  dishes. 

TO  BOIL  EGGS 

Put  eggs  in  a  well  heated  granite  sauce  pan, 
cover  with  boiling  water;  cover  and  let  stand  on 
kitchen  table  eight  minutes;  open  carefully  into 
well  warmed  egg  cups.  Nourishing  and  easily  di- 
gested. Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer. 

POACHED  EGGS 

Place  in  a  shallow  pan  as  many  muffin  rings 
as  you  have  eggs  to  poach;  turn  in  enough  boiling 
water  to  just  cover  the  rings,  and  add  a  little  salt; 
when  water  boils,  draw  pan  to  side  of  range  and 
break  an  egg  in  each  ring.  Cook  slowly  and  do  not 
let  water  boil;  should  cook  at  least  15  minutes; 
remove  eggs  carefully  and  x>lace  on  buttered  toast ; 
garnish  with  parsley. 


Everything  electrical  at  Mickle's. 


60 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


RUMPLED  EGGS 

Beat  three  eggs  with  2  ounces  butter;  add  one 
teaspoon  of  cream  and  stir  over  fire  five  minutes  or 
until  it  rises;  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

Mrs.  Williams. 

SHIRRED  EGGS 

Butter  egg  shirrer  or  sauce  dish ;  cover  bottom 
and  sides  with  fine  cracker  crumbs;  break  an  egg 
into  the  shirrer  and  cover  with  seasoned  buttered 
crumbs;  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  white  is  firm 
and  crumbs  brown.  Place  shirrers  on  tin  plate  so 
they  may  be  moved  easily.  Miss  Cox. 

CREAMED  EGGS 

Break  eggs  into  a  granite  pie  pan;  put  butter 
size  of  a  hickory  nut  beside  each  egg  and  then  add 
one  tablespoonful  cream  for  each  egg;  dust  with 
salt  and  pepper ;  let  cook  gently  on  outside  of  stove 
until  eggs  set  ;  when  ready  to  serve  garnish  with  a 
little  parsley.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Lynch. 

EGGS  A  LA  CREME 

Boil  hard  12  eggs ;  slice  in  rings ;  butter  a  bak- 
ing dish;  then  use  a  layer  of  eggs  sliced  and  sea- 
soned; then  bread  crumbs;  continue  until  dish  is 
filled;  use  bread  crumbs  for  last  layer,  with  bits  of 
butter;  moisten  all  with  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
milk  or  cream  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer. 

EGGS  ON  TOAST 
Toast  squares  of  bread  and  dip  in  hot  water; 


Mickle's  Electrical  Store,  8th  and  Bannock. 


COOK  BOOK 


61 


whip  the  white  of  egg  for  each  piece  of  toast,  and 
place  on  top,  then  drop  carefully  the  yolk  in  the 
center  of  white;  salt  and  bake,  which  takes  about  3 
minutes;  take  from  oven  and  put  melted  butter  on 
top  of  all.  Mrs.  W.  B.  Williamson. 

EGGS  IN  TOMATOES 

Cut  slice  from  stem  end  of  small  ripe  tomatoes ; 
take  out  pulp  and  break  an  egg  into  cavity ;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper;  cover  with  buttered  crumbs 
and  bake.  Miss  Cox. 

BREAKFAST  EGGS 

Six  eggs  boiled  hard;  cut  whites  and  put  on  a 
platter;  pour  over  this  a  cream  dressing;  put  the 
yolks  through  a  potato  ricer  and  sprinkle  over  the 
cream.  Put  carefully  fried  bacon  around  edges  of 
platter  and  serve  with  toast. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer. 

SWISS  EGGS 
Cover  bottom  of  dish  with  grated  cheese; 
break  eggs  upon  this  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per ;  add  teaspoon  cream  for  each  egg  and  sprinkle 
over  with  grated  cheese.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
fifteen  minutes.  Mrs.  Holm  an. 

EGG  GEMS 

One  cup  chopped  meat;  1  cup  bread  crumbs;  1 
tablespoon  melted  butter;  pepper  and  salt;  milk 
to  bind  together.  Put  one  spoonful  of  mixture  in 
hot  buttered  gem  pans,  break  egg  on  each,  sprinkle4 
with  salt,  pepper  and  bread  crumbs.  Bake  eight 
minutes.  Mrs.  Williams. 


GET  YOUR  PIANO  AT  EILERS — 709  Idaho  St. 


62 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


GOLDEN  KOD-  ON  TOAST 

Make  a  rich  cream  gravy;  have  ready  boiled 
eggs ;  toast  the  bread  to  a  golden  brown ;  if  needed 
dip  in  hot  water  or  milk ;  then  butter  and  put  gravy 
on  each  slice;  then  cut  the  whites  in  rings  and  put 
the  yolks  in  a  ricer  and  squeeze  on  top ;  garnish  with 
green.  Mrs.  W.  B.  Williamson. 

LIGHT  OMELET  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Four  eggs;  4  tablespoons  cold  water;  one-half 
teaspoon  salt;  one-eighth  teaspoon  white  pepper;  2 
tablespoons  butter;  break  eggs  and  separate;  beat 
yolks  until  light  with  salt,  pepper  and  water;  beat 
Avhites  stiff  and  fold  lightly  into  the  yolks.  Melt 
butter  in  the  pan  and  when  very  hot  turn  in  the 
omelet  and  cook  until  under  side  is  light  brown 
and  top  is  dry;  then  loosen  from  the  edges,  fold 
over  and  turn  into  a  hot  platter;  pour  the  sauce 
around  it. 

Tomato  Sauce 

One  cup  strained  tomatoes;  1  tablespoon 
flour;  1  tablespoon  butter;  1  bay  leaf;  one-half  tea- 
spoon onion  juice;  sprig  of  parsley;  one-eighth 
teaspoon  salt;  one-eighth  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Put  tomatoes  and  seasonings  on  and  simmer  for 
five  minutes;  remove  parsley  and  bay  leaf;  melt 
butter,  add  flour,  cook,  then  add  strained  tomatoes 

Carrie  C.  Twogood.  (>* 

HAM  OMELET 

For  ham  omelet  take  one-half  ham  and  half 
other  cold  meat,  minced  fine,  slightly  moistened 
and  heated.  Place  on  omelet  after  it  is  turned  out 
on  platter,  then  fold. 


Boise  City  Xat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


COOK  BOOK 


63 


OMELET. 

Six  eggs ;  1  tablespoonf ul  corn  starch ;  1  cup 
sweet  rnilk;  1  teaspoonful  salt.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs 
ami  corn  starch;  add  salt  and  milk;  stir  well;  add  " 
the  whites  last  just  lightly.  Put  into  a  frying  pan 
hot  and  well  buttered  and  cover  tightly ;  cook  about 
eight  minutes,  or  until  well  set;  then  take  off  the 
cover,  put  into  a  hot  oven  and  brown  on  top;  turn 
out  on  a  hot  platter  and  fold.    Seive  at  once 

Mrs.  Leonard  Logan. 


E.  L.  Lason,  successor  to  John  Ennis  Co.    Use  Snow  Blos- 
som Flour. 


64 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


SALADS 


'  'To  make  a  perfect  salad  there  should  be  a  spendthrift 
for  oil,  a  miser  for  vinegar,  a  wise  man  for  salt,  and  a  mad- 
cap to  stir  the  ingredients  up  and  mix  them  well  together. ' ' 

Salads  are  suitable  for  all  seasons.  There  are 
few  vegetables  which  cannot  be  used  for  this  pur- 
pose, as  well  as  the  great  variety  of  fish,  flesh  and 
fowl.  Vegetables  should  always  be  crisp  and  fresh. 
Meats  and  fish  must  be  cut  fine.  Keep  everything 
cold.  Do  not  mix  dressing  with  salad  until  ready 
to  serve. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

Use  equal  parts  of  carefully  prepared  fowl 
and  crisp,  white  celery.  When  ready  to  serve  mix 
with  Mayonnaise  dressing.  Use  2  parts  dressing 
and  1  part  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer. 

PEAR  AND  NUT  SALAD 

Cut  pears  in  halves  and  scoop  out  the  core. 
Fill  cavity  with  chopped  nuts  and  pour  over  all 
the  salad  dressing.  Sprinkle*  with,  more  of  the  nuts 
chopped  fine.  Mrs.  Miller. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

Boil  two  chickens;  have  meat  free  from  skin 
and  fat  and  cut  into  dice ;  with  this  mix  thoroughly 


Boise  City  Nat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


COOK  BOOK 


65 


equal  quantity  of  crisp  celery  cut  fine,  three  olives 
chopped  and  two  teaspoons  of  capers.  Make  a 
dressing  of  6  tablespoons  best  olive  oil,  2  table- 
spoons vinegar,  2  teaspoons  salt  and  a  dash  of  cay- 
enne. Pour  over  slowly  and  let  stand  in  ice  box 
several  hours.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Lynch. 

SALMON  SALAD 

Take  equal  parts  of  cold  boiled  salmon  and 
mashed  potatoes  and  mix  Avith  Mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  a  spoonful  of 
the  dressing.  Miss  Cox. 

LOBSTER  SALAD 

Empty  one  can  of  lobster  and  pour  off  oil;  cut 
meat  in  coarse  pieces;  shred  one  head  of  lettuce 
and  cut  up  fine  one  small  stalk  of  celery.  Mix  with 
the  lobster  and  2  tablespoons  cooked  salad  dress- 
ing; pour  remainder  of  salad  dressing  over  the 
mixture  and  garnish  with  sliced  hard  boiled  eggs 
and  celery  tops.  Mrs.  Kinyon. 

FEUIT  SALAD 

Arrange  crisp  leaves  of  lettuce  on  individual 
plates.  On  this  pile  a  portion  of  oranges  cut  into 
dice,  bananas  cut  cross  ways  into  thin  slices  and 
pineapple  thinly  sliced  and  divided  into  sections. 
Dress  with  mayonnaise  and  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  English  walnuts.     Mrs.  Jas.  Hays. 

DAISY  SALAD 

Kemove  shells  from  hard  boiled  eggs  and  cut 
in  halves  lengthwise.  Mash  yolks  and  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  mustard  and  vinegar.    Take  a  spoon- 


Lemps — Always  in  the  Lead  with  new  Ideas. 


66 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


iul  of  this  mixture  and  drop  in  center  of  lettuce 
leaf.  Cut  whites  lengthwise  into  strips  resembling 
petals  of  a  daisy,  and  arrange  around  the  yellow 
centers.    Sprinkle  with  French  dressing. 

Mrs.  Mitchell. 

POTATO  SALAD 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  dice;  add  a  sour 
pickle  sliced  Aery  thin;  sprinkle  with  little  celery 
salt  and  pour  over  a  cooked  salad  dressing  to  which 
half  a  cup  of  Avhipped  cream  has  been  added. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Williams. 

CHERRY  SALAD 

Take  white  cherries  and  pineapple  and  mari- 
nate with  French  dressing;  sprinkle  with  chopped 
nuts  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Miss  Cox. 

POTATO  SALAD  WITH  CREAM  DRESSING. 

Two  quarts  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  fine;  one 
small  onion  chopped  very  fine;  mix  dressing;  one 
teaspoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon each  of  white  pepper  and  mustard ;  mix  thor- 
oughly; add  one-half  cup  of  cream,  then  one-third 
cup  vinegar;  stir  thoroughly  through  potatoes;  is 
better  to  stand  before  using. 

Georgia  T.  Yates. 

BEET  SALAD 

Chop  well-cooked  beets  very  fine;  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  sugar,  vinegar  and  melted  butter; 
serve  on  curled  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with 
thin  slices  of  hard  boiled  egg. 

Mrs.  Mariner. 


For  finest  Groceries  go  to  Latham's. 


COOK  BOOK 


67 


OYSTER  SALAD 

One  quart  of  oysters  scalded  in  their  own 
juice;  then  drain  and  keep  on  ice  until  ready  to 
serve;  cut  up  1  pint  of  celery  in  small  pieces;  mix 
with  oysters  and  put  together  with  one-half  cup 
Mayonnaise  dressing.  Mrs.  Ustick. 

GRAPE  SALAD. 

Cut  in  halves  large  California  white  grapes 
and  serve  with  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mrs.  Ustick. 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD 

Drop  cauliflower  in  salted  boiling  water  and 
cook  tender;  lay  it  on  a  plate  to  cool  and  place  on 
ice  until  ready  to  serve;  cut  or  divide;  place  on 
platter  and  pour  over  a  mayonnaise  and  whipped 
cream  dressing.  Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal. 

TOMATO  SALAD 

Choose  uniform  sized  ripe  tomatoes,  pour  boil- 
ing water  over,  drain  at  once  and  cover  with  cold 
water;  remove  the  skins  and  set  on  ice;  make  fill- 
ing of  finely  cut  cucumbers  and  one-third  as  much 
serve  cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  tomatoes, 
carefully  take  out  seeds,  drain  out  juice,  fill  half 
full  of  the  prepared  cucumber,  place  on  a  lettuce 
leaf  and  on  the  top  of  each  tomato  put  a  spoonful 
of  very  stiff  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Carol  L.  Sweet. 

ROOSEVELT  SALAD 
String  beans  and  peas,  cooked  and  cold,  celery 


Try  our  Savings  Department — Bank  of  Commerce. 


68 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


sliced  very  line,  season  and  mix  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Nourse. 

FRENCH,  OR  LAURAINE  SALAD. 

One  tablespoonful  of  pate  de  foie  gras;  1  tea- 
cup boiled  pounded  chicken  meat  ;  1  tablespoonful 
sherry ;  2  yolks  of  eggs ;  1  cup  hot  chicken  broth  or 
stock ;  1  cup  cream ;  1  tablespoonful  dissolved  gela- 
tine; 2  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff;  salt  and  cay- 
enne; beat  the  yolks  of  eggs,  add  to  chicken  and 
pate  de  foie  gras  and  sherry ;  then  the  hot  stock ; 
cook  a  little;  cool,  then  stir  into  it  the  cream  and 
gelatine;  last  the  whites  of  eggs;  set  in  individual 
moulds  on  ice  for  several  hours;  serve  stiff  mayon- 
naise with  this.  Enough  for  ten  people.  Cheese 
straws  should  accompany  this  salad. 

Mrs.  Mary  E.  Kidenbaugh. 

CABBAGE  SALAD 

WITH  FRENCH  DRESSING 

Shave  a  medium  sized  cabbage  fine;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  it  the  following 
dressing:  Heat  one-half  cup  of  milk  to  a  boil; 
beat  one  egg,  one-half  cup  sugar,  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  stir  it  all  in  the  boiling 
milk;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  one-half  cup 
vinegar;  pour  it  all  over  the  cabbage  and  let  cool. 
Stir  occasionally.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Haines. 

METROPOLITAN  SALAD 

One  cup  of  hickory  nuts,  chopped;  2  cups  ap- 
ples ;  2  cups  celery;  cut  the  celery  into  small  pieces, 
chop  tart  apples  rather  fine;  stir  all  together  and 
season  well  with  mayonnaise  dressing;  as  the  ap- 


GET  YOUR  PIANO  AT  EILERS — 709  Idaho  St. 


COOK  BOOK 


69 


pies  turn  dark  after  chopping  it  is  best  not  to  add 
them  till  just  before  serving. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Richards. 

WALDORF  SALAD 

Cut  equal  quantities  of  apples  and  celery  in 
pepper ;  make  a  dressing  of  six  tablespoons  vinegar, 
small  dice  shaped  pieces,  and  season  with  salt  and 
three  partially  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  a 
lump  of  butter,  teaspoon  sugar;  put  vinegar  in  a 
double  boiler;  when  hot  put  in  eggs  and  stir  with 
egg-beater  until  it  thickens;  add  butter,  mustard 
wet  in  a  little  water,  and  sugar;  when  needed  to 
pour  over  salad,  add  a  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  N.  Beck. 

CHEESE  AND  CELERY  SALAD 

Mix  cream  cheese  to  a  paste  Avith  a  little 
cream;  rub  the  inside  of  individual  molds  with 
olive  oil;  line  the  molds  with  the  cheese  mixture; 
fill  the  center  with  celery  cut  fine  and  mixed  with 
mayonnaise;  carefully  turn  out  on  a  lettuce  leaf. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Bryan. 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD 

Cook  cauliflower,  then  pull  apart  into  flower  - 
ettes;  marinate  with  vinegar,  olive  oil,  pepper  and 
salt  over  night;  when  ready  to  serve,  drain  and  ar- 
range on  a  dish;  tuck  between  the  flowerettes  boil- 
ed beets  cut  into  slices ;  place  on  lettuce  leaves  and 
cover  with  mayonnaise.      Mrs.  H.  B.  Bryan. 

SHRIMP  SALAD  IN  TOMATO  CUPS 
Select  medium  size,  smooth,  well  shaped  to- 


Boise  City  Nat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  .$100,000. 


70 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


matoes;  cut  slice  from  blossom  end  and  scoop  out 
center;  fill  with  mixture  of  finely  chopped  celery 
and  shrimps,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
moistened  with  a  little  salad  dressing  mixed  with 
whipped  cream;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  tea- 
spoon mayonnaise  on  top  of  each  tomato. 

Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen. 

SHRIMP  SALAD 

One  can  shrimps,  same  amount  of  celery  cut 
fine ;  four  eggs  boiled  hard  and  chopped  when  cold ; 
one  cup  chopped  nuts;  toss  all  together  with  a 
fork;  pour  over  salad  dressing  and  mix;  stand  in 
cool  place.  Mrs.  Stewart. 

TOMATO  JELLY 

One  quart  tomatoes;  1  bay  leaf;  a  few  sprigs 
of  parsley;  1  teacup  chopped  celery;  one-half  small 
onion ;  cook  20  minutes  and  strain ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper;  add  one-half  box  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  cold  water;  then  add  4  tablespoons  vin- 
egar if  liked  very  tart ;  wet  the  molds  and  turn  the 
mixture  in  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayon- 
naise dressing.  Mrs.  LTstick. 

TOMATO  SALAD 

Peel  tomatoes,  remove  the  centers,  sprinkle 
the  inside  of  each  with  salt,  invert  and  let  stand  at 
least  20  minutes;  fill  with  equal  parts  of  pineapple 
and  nut  meats,  shredded  or  cut  into  cubes.  Serve 
with  mayonnaise  or  a  good  cream  salad  dressing. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal. 

FRUIT  SALAD 
Cut  pineapples  and  oranges  up  for  the  desired 


Hand  Painted  China  that  is  really  work  of  art  at  Evans' 


COOK  BOOK 


71 


amount,  add  candied  cherries  enough  to  give  color, 
then  blend  together  with  lemon  jelly;  serve  on  let- 
tuce leaves  Avith  the  following  dressing:  2  yolks 
of  eggs;  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  butter  size  of  a  wal- 
nut; 1  whole  egg;  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt;  one- 
half  teaspoon  mustard;  dash  of  cayenne;  one-half 
cup  vinegar.  Cook  all  together  in  a  double  boiler, 
stirring  all  the  time.  If  too  thick  add  Avhipped 
cream. 

Mrs.  A.  P.  Wilson. 

VEAL  SALAD 

Two  and  one-half  lbs.  of  veal  boiled  and  chop- 
ped fine;  add  celery  or  cabbage  chopped  fine  also. 
Serve  with  above  dressing. 

Mrs.  A.  P.  Wilson. 

SALAD  DKESSIXG  TO  UTILIZE  YOLKS  OF 

EGGS 

One  yolk  to  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 
Scald  vinegar  and  beat  the  yolks  very  light  ;  pour 
vinegar  on  the  yolks  and  then  return  it  all  to  the 
sauce-pan  and  cook  a  few  minutes  carefully,  lifting 
from  the  stove  and  stirring  it  until  the  mixture  is 
thick  and  perfectly  smooth.  When  removed  from 
the  fire  stir  into  it  a  small  piece  of  butter,  about  a 
teaspoonful  to  4  or  5  yolks.  This  is  the  founda- 
tion, to  be  used  with  a  dry  seasoning  as  follows. 
This  foundation  will  keep  over  a  week  in  the  ice- 
box and  can  be  mixed  up  quickly  whenever  there 
are  yolks  of  eggs  to  utilize. 

Seasoning 

Four  teaspoonfuls  salt;  2  scant  teaspoonfuls 
mustard ;  1  saltspoonful  white  pepper.  When  need- 


Jewelry  Store,  10th  Street,  near  Main. 


72 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


ed  mix  sufficient  of  this  seasoning  with  the  foun- 
dation and  thin  to  the  desired  consistency  with 
whipped  cream. 

For  chicken  salad  e.  g.  take  about  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  the  foundation  to  a  teaspoonful 
of  seasoning  and  this  will  take  about  a  cup  of 
whipped  cream. 

This  dressing  can  be  used  for  all  salads,  vary- 
ing the  seasoning.  For  potato  salad  use  more  sea- 
soning. For  tomato  or  cabbage  add  a  little  more 
sugar.  Add  olive  oil  and  lemon  juice,  to  taste,  if 
desired.  A  salad  of  tart  apples  and  Avainuts  with 
this  dressing  is  delicious. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Hoover. 

SALAD  DRESSING  WITHOUT  OIL 

One  teaspoonful  of  mustard;  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt ;  2  tablespoonf uls  of  sugar ;  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper ;  3  eggs .  or  one-half  cup  of  yolks ;  one-half 
cup  of  vinegar;  1  cup  cream.;  1  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Sweet  or  sour  cream  or  milk  may  be  used. 
Add  more  butter  if  milk  is  used.  Mix  salt,  mus- 
tard, cayenne  pepper  and  sugar  together.  Add 
beaten  eggs — add  slowly  hot  vinegar  stirring  all 
the  time — add  cream  or  milk,  stirring  slowly.  Put 
in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick.  Add  butter 
and  beat  with  Dover  egg  beater  until  cool. 

Mrs.  Ross  Cartee. 

SOUR  CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING 

Yolks  of  four  eggs;  1  heaping  teaspoonful 
sugar;  one-half  teaspoonful  salt;  one-half  tea- 
spoonful mustard;  dash  of  cayenne.  Whip  togeth- 
er. Have  on  stove  1  tablespoonful  butter;  one-half 
cup  vinegar ;  boil ;  stir  into  it  the  whipped  mixture ; 


AVe  will  take  any  amount  in  our  Savings  Department — Bank 


COOK  BOOK 


73 


stir  till  smooth;  let  cool;  add  two-thirds  cup  of 
whipped  sour  cream.  Fine  for  shredded  cabbage 
or  any  sort  of  vegetables  or  fruit  salad. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  Ridenbaugh. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

Mix  together  1  teaspoonful  each  of  mustard 
and  salt,  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  and  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs;  add  slowly  one  half-pint  olive  oil,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
lemon  juice;  just  before  serving  add  2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  thick  cream  whipped. 

Louise  Johnson. 

MAYONNAISE. 

One  teaspoon  salt;  1  teaspoon  mustard;  1 
tablespoon  powdered  sugar;  2  tablespoons  lemon 
juice;  2  tablespoons  vinegar;  one  and  one-half  cups 
olive  oil;  yolks  of  two  eggs;  dash  of  cayenne  or 
paprika;  one-half  pint  cream.  Have  everything 
cold.  Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  yolks  and  beat 
well.  Add  oil  drop  by  drop,  stirring  constantly. 
As  mixture  thickens,  thin  with  vinegar  or  lemon. 
Add  beaten  white  of  egg  or  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Tourtelotte. 

FRENCH  SALAD  DRESSING 

Grate  1  onion,  using  juice  of  same;  add  a 
pinch  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper;  the  juice 
of  one-half  lemon;  lastly,  as  much  olive  oil  as  de- 
sired. M rs.  J.  D.  Agnew. 

CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING 

Two  eggs,  beat  well;  add  1  tablespoon  granu- 
lated sugar;  one-half  teaspoon  mustard;  1  teaspoon 


of  Commerce. 


74 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


salt ;  1  cup  cream.  Place  in  double  boiler  and  when 
near  boiling  add  1  small  cup  of  vinegar;  cook,  stirr- 
ing all  the  time,  until  thick.  If  it  should  curdle 
beat  with  an  egg-beater  (Dover)  but  it  will  not 
curdle  unless  you  let  the  egg  boil. 

MAYONNAISE  TAB  TAKE  DRESSING 

Just  add  to  mayonnaise  chopped  olives, 
pickles,  parsley,  capers  and  onions. 

Mrs.  Leonard  Logan. 

ASPIC  JELLY 

Aspic  is  very  useful  in  the  preparation  of  cold 
dishes  and  care  should  be  taken  to  have  it  clear 
and  well  flavored.  With  aspic,  cold  meats  and 
salad  can  be  made  into  many  attractive  dishes.  1 
fowl;  1  shin  of  beef;  1  knuckle  of  veal;  one-half 
package  Cox  gelatin;  1  turnip;  2  onions;  1  carrot; 
1  stalk  celery ;  4  cloves ;  1  bay  leaf ;  1  cup  sherry  or 
Maderia.  Put  meat  into  pot,  cover  with  Avater  and 
let  simmer  five  hours,  closely  covered.  An  hour 
before  removing  from  fire,  add  carrot  cut  in  dice, 
the  cloves  and  bay  leaf.  Fry  in  butter  the  onions 
and  celery  ( cut  in  pieces )  to  a  nice  brown,  and  add 
to  stock  at  the  same  time.  Remove  from  fire, 
strain  and  add  gelatin  (which  has  soaked  for  an 
hour  in  cold  water)  and  the  sherry.  Stir  until 
gelatin  is  dissolved.  Set  away  until  next  day, 
when  if  not  solid  enough  to  stand,  more  gelatin 
may  be  added.   There  should  be  two  quarts  of  jelly. 

To  Clear  Aspic 

Remove  all  grease  and  stir  into  the  cold  jelly 
the  white  and  shells  of  two  eggs.  Let  boil  hard  for 
five  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  double  cloth. 


E.  1(.  Lason,  successor  to  John  Eimis  Co.    Use  Snow  Bios- 


COOK  BOOK 


75 


..  CHEESE  .. 


Cheese  is  served  with  Avafers,  after  the  dessert, 
or  with  the  salad  before  the  hot  dessert.  Any 
cheese  dishes  are  served  before  the  dessert.  Cheese 
straws  are  used  with  salads.  Edam,  pineapple  and 
any  cheese  of  suitable  size  are  passed  whole,  with 
top  cut  off  and  a  scoop  for  helping.  American 
cheese  is  always  cut  into  pieces  of  uniform  size. 
The  soft  cheese  is  divested  of  tin  foil  and  passed  on 
a  lace  paper. 

CHEESE  JELLY 

One-half  cup  of  cream;  one-half  teaspoon  mus- 
tard ;  one-third  package  of  gelatin ;  2  cups  of  grated 
cheese ;  a  pinch  of  salt.  Whip  cream  and  add  mus- 
tard, salt,  gelatin  soaked  in  a  little  water,  and 
cheese.  Save  out  a  little  of  the  cheese.  Stir  while 
on  the  stove  until  dissolved,  then  pour  in  shallow 
pans  and  sprinkle  remaining  cheese  over  the  top. 
When  cold  cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  N.  M.  Perkins. 

CHEESE  FONDU 

Melt  1  oz.  butter  and  whip  into  it  1  pt.  milk; 
dissolve  2  tablespoons  of  flour  into  1  gill  of  cold 


som  Flour. 


76 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


milk ;  add  it  to  the  boiled  milk  and  let  it  cool ;  beat 
yolks  of  four  eggs  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  five 
ounces  of  grated  cheese.  Whip  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  add  them;  pour  the  mixture  into  a  deep 
tin  lined  with  buttered  paper  and  allow  for  the 
rising,  say  four  inches.  Bake  twenty  minutes  and 
serve  immediately.  Mrs.  M.  D.  Lovell. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

Add  to.  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  one 
tablespoon  of  flour;  cook  until  slightly  yellow; 
then  add  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Let  the  mixture  cool  and  add  yolks  of 
four  eggs  one  at  a  time;  six  tablespoonfuls  grated 
Swiss  cheese,  and  lastly,  beaten  whites.  Put  in  a 
buttered  form  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven.    Serve  in  a  pudding  dish  as  an  entree. 

Clementine  Seller. 

CHEESE  BALLS 

Grate  one  cupful  of  American  cheese;  add  one 
well  beaten  egg;  season  with  salt,  paprika  and 
Worcestershire;  shape  in  small  balls,  roll  in  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen. 

SCALLOPED  CHEESE 

One  cup  grated  cheese;  1  cup  bread  crumbs; 
1  pint  milk,  cheese  dissolved  in  milk;  one-half  tea- 
spoon mustard  moistened  with  hot  water;  2  eggs 
beaten;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  salt-spoon  cayenne. 

Mrs.  M.  D.  Lovell. 


Olive  Oil  contains  more  nutriment  than  any  other  known 


COOK  BOOK 


77 


GOLDEN  FLEECE 

To  three  cups  of  grated  cheese  add  one  cup  of 
milk  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  level 
teaspoon  of  salt;  put  over  the  fire  and  cook  till 
smooth;  break  three  eggs  into  it  and  cook  till  the 
whites  set,  then  beat  till  smooth  and  creamy.  Serve 
on  hot  toast.  Miss  Tage. 

FANNY    BLOOM  FIELD -  ZEIS  LEE'S  CHEESE 

Fifteen  cents  worth  of  Eocquefort  cheese 
pressed  through  a  sieve ;  same  amount  of  fresh  but- 
ter, stirred  to  a  cream;  then  add  cheese  and  mix 
one-fourth  teaspoon  red  pepper;  one  and  one-half 
sardelles  washed,  boned  and  chopped  and  smoothed 
to  a  paste;  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley;  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  chopped  onion;  1  teaspoon  chop- 
ped capers,  caraway  seed;  mold. 

Mrs.  N.  M.  Perkins. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE 

Place  one  panful  of  clabbered  milk  over  a  pan 
of  hot  water;  let  heat  very  slowly  until  whey  sep- 
arates from  curd;  do  not  let  boil  or  it  wilj  become 
tough ;  then  strain  through  a  cloth  and  press  out 
all  the  whey;  stir  into  the  curd  a  little  butter, 
cream  and  salt — enough  to  moisten  and  flavor; 
work  well  with  a  spoon  until  fine  grained  and  con- 
sistent, then  mold  into  balls  of  uniform  size. 

CHEESE  STEAAVS 

One-half  cup  melted  butter;  1  cup  cheese, 
grated;  1  egg;  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper;  flour  to 
roll;  roll  and  cut  in  straws  one-fourth  inch  wide 
and  4  inches  long.  Bake  in  very  hot  oven  light 
brown.  Mrs.  H.  AT.  Dunton. 


food.    Get  the  pure  at  Joy's. 


TS 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


..  PUDDINGS 


"The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating." 


TAPIOCA  CEEAM 

Soak  4  tablespoons  pearl  tapioca  in  water  to 
cover,  in  double  boiler  ;  when  water  is  absorbed, 
add  milk  and  cook  till  transparent ;  beat  one-third 
cup  sugar  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt  into  yolks 
of  2  eggs  and  pour  the  hot  tapioca  over  the  mix- 
ture, stirring  well;  return  to  double  boiler  quickly 
and  cook  two  or  three  minutes.  Remove  from  fire, 
add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs.    Serve  cold. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Gibson. 

LEMON  MERINGUE 

One  medium  sized  sponge  cake;  S  eggs  separ- 
ated ;  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar ;  3  lemons.  Beat 
yolks  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  put  into  a  rice  boiler, 
stir  constantly  until  thick,  add  juice  and  grated 
yellow  rind  of  lemons  and  5  beaten  whites;  pour 
over  cake  ;  beat  other  three  whites  with  very  little 
sugar ;  put  over  all  the  rest ;  brown  in  oven. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  Ridexbaugh. 


Boise  Book  &  Music  Co.,  719  Main  St. 


COOK  BOOK 


79 


PINEAPPLE  CREAM 

To  one  pint  of  cream  whipped  stiff  and  sweet- 
ened with  one  cup  of  sugar,  add  one-half  box  of 
gelatin  which  has  been  soaked  in  one  cup  of  milk 
for  a  half  hour,  then  add  one  can  of  shredded  pine- 
apple.   Set  on  ice.  Mrs.  Tipton. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM 

One  quart  rich  cream  whipped  very  stiff;  one- 
half  box  Cox's  gelatin  in  water  enough  to  cover 
and  set  on  back  of  stove  to  dissolve;  one-half  cup 
pulverized  sugar  and  one  generous  tablespoonful 
of  sherry;  cool  gelatin  after  being  dissolved,  then 
strain  into  cream,  stirring  constantly;  add  sugar 
and  sherry;  stir  for  a  few  minutes  in  some  cool 
place,  then  pour  into  one  large  or  several  smaller 
molds  and  place  on  ice. 

Mrs.  W.  T.  Booth. 

AMBER  PUDDING 

Boil  one-half  box  gelatin  in  1  pint  of  milk 
until  gelatin  is  dissolved;  add  yolks  of  4  eggs,  beat- 
en with  3  heaping  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar 
— stir  gradually  into  first  mixture  and  remove 
from  stove — whip  whites  with  a  little  powdered 
sugar  and  whip  into  pudding;  flavor  and  set  in 
mold  to  cool.  Mrs.  D.  J.  Cohen. 

CUP  CUSTARDS 

To  one  quart  milk  use  five  eggs;  one  half  cup 
sugar;  one  half  teaspoon  salt;  flavor  with  nutmeg, 
and  bake  in  cups  set  in  pan  of  water. 

Georgia  T.  Yates. 


Elwell  Kitchen  Cabinets.     Standard  Furniture  Co. 


80 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


RICE  PUDDING 

One  cup  rice  thoroughly  washed;  2  quarts 
milk,  1  cup  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  egg,  little 
salt.  Flavor  to  taste.  Bake  2  hours  in  a  moderate 
oven,  stirring  frequently. 

LUELLA  MARCELLUS. 

CORN  STARCH  BLANC  MANGE 

Dissolve  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch 
in  one  pint  of  milk;  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  and  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  (yolks 
also  if  rich  color  is  desired)  ;  put  this  mixture  into 
a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  add  a  salt-spoon  of  salt  and 
stir  well  while  it  is  thickening;  flavor  with  lemon, 
pour  into  cups  and  place  on  ice.  When  cool  turn 
out  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  lemon.  Mrs.  A.  F.  Long. 

SNOW  PUDDING 

One-fourth  box  of  Knox  gelatin ;  soak  one  hour 
in  one-fourth  cup  cold  water;  when  dissolved,  add 
one  cup  of  boiling  water  and  one  cup  sugar ;  let  the 
sugar  dissolve;  one  cup  of  lemon  juice;  strain  all 
through  a  napkin;  put  on  ice  until  it  hardens; 
when  hard  beat  up  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  then  put  in  the  above  and  beat  until  thor- 
oughly mixed;  put  in  molds.  Sauce  for  same: 
Boil  one-half  pint  of  milk;  yolks  of  three  eggs; 
three  teaspoons  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  R.  S.  Shaw. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

Two  cups  milk;  1  cup  sugar;  one-half  cup 
chocolate;  2  cups  bread  crumbs;  yolks  of  4  eggs, 


Lowest  prices.    Best  values.    Mickle's  Electrical  Store. 


COOK  BOOK 


81 


beat  light;  mix  all  of  this  and  put  in  the  oven  and 
stir  until  thick ;  then  close  the  oven  and  let  it  bake 
until  it  quits  bubbling;  beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs 
and  put  on  the  top,  then  put  in  the  oven  to  brown 
the  frosting.  Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE 

One  quart  of  milk;  one-half  package  gelatin 
dissolved  in  one  cup  cold  water;  1  cup  sugar;  3 
tablespoons  grated  chocolate;  vanilla  to  taste; 
heat  tne  milk,  stir  in  the  sugar  and  gelatin,  strain 
and  add  chocolate;  boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  time;  when  nearly  cold  beat  five  minutes  with 
egg  beater,  or  until  it  begins  to  stiffen.  Flavor. 
Whip  and  put  into  a  wet  mold. 

Mrs.  Houston. 

PRUNE  WHIP 

One-third  pound  prunes;  5  eggs  (whites)  ;  one- 
half  cup  sugar;  one-half  teaspoon  lemon  juice  or 
extract ;  pinch  cream  of  tartar.  Pick  over  and  wash 
prunes;  soak  in  cold  water;  cover  and  cook  slowly 
until  soft.  Drain  and  put  through  the  finest  grind- 
er; beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff ;  add  sugar,  then  prunes, 
flavoring  and  cream  of  tartar;  pile  lightly  on  but- 
tered dish;  bake  in  slow  oven  20  minutes;  serve 
when  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Stephenson. 

BREAD  PUDDING 

One  cup  bread  crumbs,  browned ;  1  pint  milk ; 
one-half  cup  sugar;  yolks  of  4  eggs;  butter,  size  of 
a  Avalnut;  one-half  cup  raisins;  a  pinch  of  salt;  a 
little  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice.  Bake  one-half  hour. 
Take  from  oven,  place  small  pieces  of  jelly  on  top, 


$1.00  starts  in  our  Savings  Department — Bank  of  Commerce 


82 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


cover  with  meringue  made  from  whites  of  eggs,  re- 
turn to  oven  and  brown  quickly.  Serve  with  or 
without  sauce.  Mrs.  Williams. 

CAKE  CRUMB  PUDDING 

Two  cups  cake  crumbs ;  1  cup  milk ;  1  cup  seed- 
ed raisins;  one-half  cup  molasses  (scant)  ;  one-half 
teaspoon  soda  ;  1  egg ;  spice  to  taste.  Steam  one  to 
two  hours.  Serve  with  cream  whipped  or  any  rich 
pudding  sauce.  Mrs.  Tipton. 

CRUMB  PUDDING 

One  cup  chopped  raisins;  one-half  cup  mo- 
lasses; 3  cups  bread  crumbs;  2  eggs;  1  cup  sweet 
milk ;  1  teaspoon  of  soda ;  spices.  Steam  three 
hours. 

Sauce 

Beat  to  a  froth  2  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup 
milk,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  nutmeg.  Steam  20 
minutes,  stirring  frequently.  Before  removing 
from  the  fire  add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Mrs.  Elmer  E.  Forshay. 

FANCY  PUDDIXG 

Make  a  sponge  cake,  which  when  baked  will  be 
about  two  inches  high.  Cut  it  in  half,  so  that  each 
part  will  be  an  inch  thick.  One  part  saturate  in 
sherry  wine  and  on  this  place  the  second  half,  which 
has  had  a  thick  layer  of  chopped  pineapple  spread 
upon  it.  Whip  cream,  sweeten,  flavor  and  add  chop- 
ped walnuts;  then  spread  the  cream  over  the  cake. 

Mrs.  L.  P.  Greene aum. 


If  you  need  anything  in  a  hurry  Telephone  Joy's. 


COOK  BOOK 


S3 


ORANGE  CHARLOTTE 

Two-thirds  box  gelatin ;  two-thirds  cup  of  cold 
water;  two-thirds  cup  boiling  water;  one  and  one- 
half  cups  sugar;  one-half  cup  lemon  juice;  one  and 
one-half  cups  orange  juice,  5  eggs,  whites  only. 
Line  a  mold  with  slices  of  oranges.  Soak  gelatin 
in  cold  water  till  soft ;  pour  on  boiling  water.  Add 
the  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Strain  and  add  orange 
juice  and  pulp  with  a  little  of  the  grated  rind.  Cool 
in  pan  of  water.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  and 
Avhen  the  orange  jelly  begins  to  harden  beat  it  till 
light.  Then  add  the  whites  and  beat  together  till 
stiff  enough  to  drop.  Pour  into  mold.  Whipped 
cream  on  top  adds  greatly  to  it. 

Mks.  Helen  M.  Regan. 

ORANGE  PUDDING 

Soak  one  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs  in  one  and 
one-half  cups  milk;  beat  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar  and  grated  rind  of  one  and  juice 
of  two  oranges ;  mix  together ;  beat  Avhites  stiff  and 
add  lightly;  bake  15  or  20  minutes. 

Sauce 

One  cup  powdered  sugar;  yolks  of  2  eggs;  one- 
third  cup  butter,  beat  to  a  cream;  one-third  cup 
cream,  4  tablespoons  wine  (port  or  sherry) .  Set  over 
tea  kettle  for  3  minutes  to  thicken. 

Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen. 

PEACH  PUDDING 

Two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter;  one-half 
cup  of  sugar;  one  cup  of  flour;  two  cups  of  peaches; 
one  egg ;  tablespoon  of  sour  milk ;  tablespoon  of 
water;  two-thirds  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in 


See  Con  Hesse  for  silverware,  sterling  and  plated. 


84 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


milk;  season  with  nutmeg';  steam  one  hour.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Johnson. 

CHEEKY  SNOW  PUDDING 

Put  one  pint  of  milk  over  the  fire  Avith  3  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  stir 
into  it  2  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  wet  with  some 
cold  milk,  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  keep  stirring  until  it 
thickens ;  then  take  from  the  fire  and  flavor  with  a 
dessertspoonful  of  maraschino ;  meanwhile  have  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  light  and  stir  them  into 
the  cooked  corn  starch ;  wet  around  border  of  mold 
and  put  a  row  of  cherries  in  the  mold ;  put  the  mix- 
ture into  the  mold  by  the  spoonful  so  as  not  to 
misplace  the  cherries.  When  the  mold  is  filled  put 
it  into  a  steamer  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Serve  with 
cream  and  sugar.  Mrs.  A.  W.  Beck. 

FEUIT  DUMPLINGS 

One  pint  flour;  1  heaping  spoon  baking  pow- 
der; butter  size  of  an  egg;  pinch  of  salt;  milk  for 
soft  dough ;  take  ripe  or  canned  peaches,  apples,  or 
any  desired  fruit;  put  dumplings  in  pan  with  one 
cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  pint  and  half  boiling 
water ;  bake  to  light  brown,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Purcell. 

BLACK  PUDDING 

One-half  cup  molasses ;  1  small  teaspoon  soda ; 
three-fourths  cup  hot  water;  yolks  of  2  eggs;  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt;  1  cup  flour;  1  cup  raisins.  Put 
the  hot  water  in  last  and  steam  2  hours. 

Sauce 

One-half  cup  sugar;  2  tablespoons  butter, 


Lemps — Each  Season's  line  strengthens  our  reputation. 


COOK  BOOK 


85 


creamed,  and  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  Mrs.  Nixon. 

STEAMED  PUDDING 

Three  cups  bread  crumbs;  1  cup  sugar;  one- 
half  cup  suet  chopped  line ;  2  apples  chopped ;  2 
eggs  well  beaten;  one-half  package  raisins  chop- 
ped; one-third  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon, 
cloves,  nutmeg,  allspice;  one-half  teaspoonful  soda. 
Steam  for  two  hours  (or  more). 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Bruce. 

CRANBERR/Y  PUDDING 

One  cup  sugar ;  two  tablespoons  melted  butter ; 
yolks  of  two  eggs ;  one-half  cup  sweet  milk ;  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder;  one  and  two-thirds  cups  of 
flour,  or  two  cups  unless  fruit  is  dry ;  two  cups  raw 
cranberries,  stirred  in  last.  Bake  three-quarters  of 
an  hour. 

Sauce  for  same 

Whites  of  two  eggs;  one  cup  sugar;  one  tea- 
spoon vanilla ;  one  large  tablespoon  flour.  Wet  flour 
in  little  cold  water,  and  stir  until  smooth ;  add  one 
and  one-half  cups  boiling  water  and  cook  until 
thick;  when  cold  add  whites  of  eggs,  (beaten)  sugar 
and  vanilla.    To  be  eaten  cold  on  the  hot  pudding. 

Mrs.  George  Clithero. 

PRUNE  PUDDING 

Fourteen  prunes  cooked  and  chopped  fine; 
crack  the  prune  seeds,  remove  nuts  and  chop  them 
with  the  prunes;  whip  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in  lightly  two  and  one-half 
tablespoonsful  of  granulated  sugar,  add  the  prunes 


GET  YOUR  PIANO  AT  EILERS— 709  Idaho  St. 


86 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


and  nuts  and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  it  into  a  dish 
and  set  in  pan  of  hot  Avater.  Bake  15  minutes. 
Serve  cold  Avith  a  boiled  custard  made  of  the  yolks 
of  eggs  and  milk,  or  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Tipton. 

PEACH  CUP 

Pare  and  halve  8  large  ripe  peaches ;  put  aside 
12  halves,  mash  the  remaining  quantity,  add  to 
them  the  yolks  of  tAvo  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  milk, 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  melted,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  sifted  AAith 
one  rounding  teaspoon  of  baking  poAvder;  beat  for 
a  moment  and  fold  in  the  Avell  beaten  Avhites  of  two 
eggs ;  put  a  layer  of  the  batter  in  the  bottom  of  cus- 
tard cups,  put  on  top  of  each  a  half  of  peach,  cover 
Avith  tAvo  tablespoons  of  batter,  dust  Avith  granu- 
lated sugar  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  20  minutes. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce  or  cream.    Mrs.  Tipton. 

FIG  PUDDING 

Chop  twenty  figs  fine,  a  feAV  walnut  meats,  and 
two  apples ;  short  cup  of  butter ;  1  cup  brown  sugar ; 

2  cups  milk;  3  cups  bread  crumbs;  2  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder;  1  eggs;  one-fourth  teaspoon  all- 
spice and  cloves;  one-half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon; 
2  large  cups  of  flour.    Steam  3  hours. 

Mrs.  Helen  M.  Eegan. 

DATE  PUDDING 

One  pound  dates  seeded  and  chopped  fine;  8 
tablespoons  water,  hot;  1  whites  of  eggs;  one-half 
teaspoon  cream  tartar;  one-half  cup  sugar.  Stir 
dates  and  hot  water  on  back  of  stOA^e  until  a  smooth 


GET  YOUR  PIANO  AT  EILERS — 709  Idaho  St. 


COOK  BOOK 


87 


paste.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  and  cream  tartar  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  add  sugar.  Then  add  the  date  paste 
and  bake  in  a  buttered  pan  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
in  a  moderate  oven  25  minutes.  A  few  spoonfuls  of 
jam  or  jelly  may  be  used  in  place  of  dates  and 
water.    Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Anderson. 

SUET  PUDDING 

One  cup  chopped  suet;  1  cup  chopped  raisins, 
stoned;  1  cup  of  molasses;  1  cup  hot  water;  1  tea- 
spoon soda  put  in  the  hot  water,  pinch  of  salt;  4 
cups  flour.  Steam  2  hours.  Serve  with  butter 
sauce  and  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart. 

PLUM  PUDDING 

One  pound  minced  suet;  1  lb.  stoned  raisins: 
1  lb.  currants ;  three-fourths  lb.  bread  crumbs ;  one- 
half  lb.  flour;  6  eggs ;  three- fourths  lb.  sugar ;  one- 
half  nutmeg;  one-half  teaspoonful  cinnamon;  one- 
half  teaspoonful  ginger;  one  salt-spoonful  salt;  one 
cup  milk;  one  glass  brandy.    Steam  6  or  8  hours. 

Mrs.  R.  Airman. 

HONEYCOMB  PUDDING 

Flour,  one  cup ;  molasses,  one  cup ;  butter,  one- 
half  cup;  sugar,  one-half  cup;  milk,  one-half  cup; 
eggs,  four;  soda,  one  teaspoonful.  Beat  the  flour 
(sifted),  sugar  and  molasses  together;  melt  the  but- 
ter in  the  warm  milk ;  to  this  add  the  soda ;  mix  all 
these  ingredients  and  add  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  with 
liquid  sauce.  Mrs.  Samuel  H.  Hays. 


Start  your  deposits  with  the  Bank  of  Commerce. 


88 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING 

A  FAVORITE  NEW  ENGLAND  RECIPE 

Heat  one  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  stir  in  one- 
half  cup  of  corn  meal;  cook  till  smooth  and  then 
add  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  teaspoon  gin- 
ger and  bake  for  a  half  hour;  then  stir  in  1  cup  of 
rich  milk  and  one-half  cup  of  seeded  raisins;  bake 
for  2  hours  in  a  slow  oven.    Eat  cold  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Savidge. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING 

One  cup  molasses,  -4  tablespoons  corn  meal,  1 
well  beaten  egg,  all  beaten  together.  Pour  over 
above  1  quart  boiling  fresh  milk.  Melt  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  pudding  dish  and  pour 
in  the  mixture.  Flavor  with  a  little  allspice.  If 
whey  is  wished  add  a  cup  of  cold  milk  as  soon  as  it 
begins  to  boil  after  putting  in  oven.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  1  hour,  or  a  little  more.  A  cup  of 
sliced  SAveet  apples  improves  it.  Very  nice  cold 
with  cream,  or  hot  from  the  oven. 

LUELLA  MaRCELLT'S. 

STEAMED  FRUIT  PUDDING 

One  cup  molasses;  1  cup  milk;  1  cup  raisins, 
(seeded)  ;  one-half  cup  butter;  4  cups  flour;  1  tea- 
spoon each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon;  1  teaspoon 
soda.  Melt  the  butter,  then  add  molasses  into 
Avhich  the  soda  has  been  stirred,  then  the  other  in- 
gredients, adding  raisins  last  before  flour  is  stirred 
in;  pour  in  a  wrell  greased  pan,  set  in  the  steamer 
and  steam  two  and  a  half  hours.  Eat  with  hard  or 
liquid  sauce.  Can  be  reheated  any  number  of  times 
by  steaming  and  will  keep  for  weeks. 

Mrs.  Savidge. 


If  you  need  anything  in  a  hurry  Telephone  Joy's. 


COOK  BOOK 


89 


Hoosier 


Copyrighted,  1906.  by  Hoosier  Mfg.  Co. 


KITCHEN 
CABINETS 

Different  From 
All  Others  


IT  has  an  arrangement 
*  all  its  own.  Its  more 
convenient,  more  prac- 
tical, more  get-at-able, 
more  sanitary,  possess- 
es more  special  feat- 
ures than  any  other 
kitchen  cabinet  made 
no  matter  how  high  the 
price. 

SPECIAL 
Features 

Flour  bin,  different 
from  all  others.  Sugar 
bin,  an  exclusive  fea- 
ture. Aluminum  ex- 
tension sliding  top 
gives  twice  the  table 
space  of  an  ordinary 
cabinet.  Does  not  tar- 
nish or  corrode. 


^utomatic  Refrigerators 

Built  on 
Scientific 


principles  


Have  a  positive  circu- 
lation. Food  odors  will 
not  mix,  Saves  food  as 
weil  as  ice.  The  best 
constructed,  most  con- 
venient and  handsom- 
est refrigerator  on  the 
market. 

For  Sale  Only  By 


Allen- Wright  Furniture  Co, 


Limited 


90 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


900  FAMILIES 

MC  tBOISE  ARE  USING 

Silverwreath  Flour 

Any  one  of  these  good  housewives  will  testify  that  this 
flour  goes  further  than  any  other.  It  is  the  cheapest 
flour  to  use. 

Price  $1.50  Per  Sack 


|  ^  TSest  on  Garth 

T|to&ufactwed  Expressly  for  < 

Tf1^UnCRCANTILEC0.U| 
Idaho 

SOLD  BY- 


The  Falk  Mercantile  Co.,  Ltd. 

BOISE  AND  NAMCPjl,  IDAHO 
Don't  let  your  grocer  substitute  any  other  flour 


COOK  BOOK 


91 


SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

One  large  cupful  of  grated  sweet  potato ;  1  cup 
sugar;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  tablespoon  of  ground  cin- 
namon ;  one-half  teaspoon  of  nutmeg ;  melted  butter 
half  the  size  of  an  egg ;  mix  all  together,  then  beat 
one  egg  thoroughly;  take  one  cup  of  milk,  put  half 
into  the  egg;  into  the  other  half  stir  a  tablespoon 
of  flour ;  mix  all  thoroughly  and  bake  about  forty 
minutes.    Serve  warm  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Forshay. 

RAISIN  PUFFS 

One  egg;  one  tablespoon  sugar;  one-half  cup 
sweet  milk ;  one-fourth  cup  butter ;  one-half  cup  rai- 
sins; one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der; flour  to  make  batter  as  thick  as  for  cake. 
Steam  one-half  hour.    Serve  with  sauce. 

Mrs.  Frank  Nourse. 

LEMON  PUFFS 

One  cup  flour,  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar, 
1  tablespoon  butter,  3  tablespoons  milk,  3  eggs, 
(separate  yolks  and  whites),  grated  peel  and  juice 
of  1  lemon,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Mix  as  cake 
and  bake  in  gem  pans. 

Sauce. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  (whipped  light),  juice  and 
peel  of  1  lemon,  one-half  tumbler  sherry  wine,  one 
half  tumbler  hot  water,  1  heaping  cup  sugar,  1 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  butter.  Rub  but- 
ter into  sugar,  add  yolks,  lemon  and  spice.  Hea* 
five  minutes,  add  wine  and  hot  water,  stirring  hard, 
set  in  a  pan.  Mrs.  Walter  Keefe. 


Boise  City  Nat  l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


92 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


PUDDING  SAUCE 

One  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour,  butter  the 
size  of  large  egg,  1  pint  boiling  water — cook  well. 
Add  half  pint  whipped  cream.     Mrs.  Purcell. 

LEMON  SAUCE 

Two  cups  boiling  water,  1  cup  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons flour,  2  teaspoons  butter,  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon.  Mix  sugar  and  flour  thorough- 
ly, add  boiling  water  slowly.  Cook  five  to  eight 
minutes,  stirring  constantly;  add  lemon  rind  and 
juice,  then  the  butter.  Stir  until  butter  is  melt- 
ed and  serve  at  once.  If  too  thick  add  little  hot 
water.  Miss  Long. 

STRAWBERRY  SAUCE 

Cream  one-half  cupful  of  butter  and  one  cup 
of  sugar  until  very  light  and  white.  Add  the 
whipped  white  of  one  egg  and  one  cup  of  straw- 
berries, mashed  to  a  pulp.  Mrs.  Purcell.    . . 

HARD  SAUCE 

Cream  one  cup  of  white  sugar  and  one-half 
cup  of  butter  until  very  creamy  and  light;  add 
juice  of  1  lemon  slowly,  or  any  desired  flavoring. 


Boise  City  Nat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


COOK  BOOK 


93 


...  PASTRY ... 


"Pastry  is  like  promises — easily  broken,"  , 

PLAIN  PIE  CRUST 

Sift  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour;  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cut  in  with  a  knife  a  half 
cup  of  butter.  Add  one  quarter  of  a  cup  of 
ice  water,  gradually. 

CREAM  PIE 

Two  cups  of  milk,  let  come  to  a  boil,  add  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  3  table- 
spoons of  flour  or  cornstarch.  Sweeten  to  taste, 
pinch  of  salt,  flavor  with  -vanilla.  This  makes 
enough  cream  for  two  large  pies.  When  cold 
spread  in  the  paste,  which  must  be  baked  and  cold. 
Whip  one  pint  of  cream,  sweeten  and  flavor  with 
vanilla,  and  put  on  as  second  layer  of  pie.  Whip 
whites  of  3  eggs,  sweeten  and  flavor  and  put  on  as 
a  meringue.  Louise  Johnson. 

CREAM  PIE 

Take  3  eggs,  one-half  pint  of  cream,  one-half 
pint  of  milk,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  three  heaping  table- 
spoons of  flour;  beat  the  sugar,  flour  and  yolks  of 
eggs  together;  after  the  milk  has  come  to  a  boil, 


Con  Hesse,  the  Jeweler. 


94 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


stir  in  the  mixture  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
about  two  tablespoons  of  butter.  Make  crust  the 
same  as  any  pie;  bake,  then  fill  with  the  custard, 
grate  over  a  little  nutmeg  and  bake  again.  Take 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth 
with  three  level  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar, 
spread  over  the  top  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Frank  Nourse. 

COCOANUT  PIE 

One  pint  milk;  two  eggs;  one-half  cup  sugar; 
one-half  teaspoon  vanilla ;  one  cup  grated  cocoanut. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  light, 
then  add  the  milk,  vanilla  and  cocoanut.  Cook  in 
a  double  boiler  till  thick,  pour  into  baked  crust 
and  spread  over  it  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs; 
sprinkle  cocoanut  over  the  top  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 

CHESS  PIE 

Four  eggs;  1  cup  of  sugar;  one-half  cup  of 
butter;  one-half  cup  of  milk  or  cream;  2  table- 
spoons flour;  vanilla  to  taste.  Cream  the  butter, 
add  the  sugar,  the  beaten  eggs,  leaving  out  the 
whites  of  two  for  the  top,  and  the  milk  or  cream. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick,  pour  into  the 
baked  crust,  spread  over  it  the  whites  beaten  stiff 
with  one-quarter  cup  of  sugar  and  brown  in  the 
oven.  Marguerite  Allen. 

SOUR  CREAM  PIE 

One  cup  sour  cream ;  1  cup  sugar ;  one-half  cup 
seeded  raisins,  chopped;  yolks  of  3  eggs;  one-half 
teaspoon  cloves;  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Bake 


All  kinds  of  electric  supplies  at  Mickle's. 


COOK  BOOK 


95 


with  one  crust — adding  meringue  of  whites  on  top. 

Mrs.  Frank  Coffin. 

SOUK  CREAM  PIE 

One  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  mixed  with 
one  cup  sugar  and  2  eggs;  add  three-quarters  cup 
sour  cream  and  sweet  milk  until  enough  for  one 
pie.  Season  with  one-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  and 
bake  with  one  crust.     Mrs.  Samuel  H.  Hays. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  PIE 

Two-thirds  cup  of  sugar;  2  heaping  table- 
spoons flour;  2  eggs,  save  white  of  one  for  top;  3 
tablespoons  grated  chocolate;  2  cups  milk  and  a 
little  salt.  Stir  flour,  sugar  and  chocolate  together, 
add  eggs  beaten  and  beat  all  thoroughly ;  add  milk 
and  boil  until  thickened,  stirring  constantly.  When 
done,  flavor  with  vanilla,  put  in  pastry  previously 
baked,  ice  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown  lightly. 
One-half  cup  of  shredded  cocoanut  may  be  substi- 
tuted instead  of  the  chocolate. 

LUELLA  MARCELLUS. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

One-half  teacup  grated  chocolate;  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg;  1  teaspoon  vanilla;  1  cup  sugar;  2 
heaped  tablespoons  cornstarch ;  2  egg  yolks.  Cream 
together  and  stir  into  it  one  coffee  cup  boiling  wa- 
ter, stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens.  When 
cool  pour  into  nicely  browned  pie  shells  and  pile 
over  the  whites  of  eggs  into  which  2  tablespoons 
of  sugar  and  ten  drops  of  vanilla  have  been 
stirred.   Brown  in  oven.     Mrs.  M.  D.  Lovell. 


Boston  Meat  Market,  J.  W.  Stevens  &  Son  Props,,  1008  Main 


96 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


CHOCOLATE  PIE 

Two  tablespoonfuls  flour;  4  tablespoonfuls 
grated  chocolate;  1  tablespoonful  butter;  1  cup 
milk;  yolks  of  2  eggs;  one-third  cup  sugar.  Cook 
the  above  to  a  thick  custard,  and  fill  into  a  baked 
crust.    Cover  with  whites  of  eggs,  and  brown. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Purcell. 

LEMON  PIE 

Take  a  deep  dish,  grate  into  it  the  outside  of 
the  rind  of  two  lemons;  add  to  that  a  cup  and  a 
half  of  white  sugar;  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
unsifted  flour,  or  one  of  cornstarch ;  stir  it  well  to 
gether;  then  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Beat 
this  thoroughly,  then  add  the  juice  of  the  lemons; 
two  cups  of  water  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  walnut.  Set  this  on  the  fire  in  another  dish 
containing  boiling  water  and  cook  it  until  it  thick- 
ens. Eemove  it  from  the  fire  and  fill  the  crust, 
which  has  previously  been  '  baked.  When  done, 
have  ready  the  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  with 
three  small  tablespoons  sugar.  Spread  this  over 
the  top  and  return  to  the  oven  to  set  and  brown 
slightly.  Mrs.  S.  J.  Jones. 

LEMON  PIE 

One  cup  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  corn- 
starch; 1  cup  sugar  :  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut ;  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon ;  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Fill  rich  crust,  which  has 
been  previously  baked;  cover  with  meringue,  made 
with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  a  little  sugar,  and 
brown  in  oven.  Mrs.  Williams. 


Idaho  Hardware  Co.  sell  good  ntensils. 


COOK  BOOK 


97 


LEMON  PIE. 

Make  a  rich  pie  crust  and  line  pie  tins  and 
bake  before  adding  filling. 

Juice  of  2  lemons,  grated  rind  of  1;  2  cups  of 
sugar;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  or  flour;  2 
cups  of  boiling  water;  yolks  of  5  eggs;  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Mix  sugar  and  cornstarch  together ;  put  beaten 
eggs,  lemon  juice  and  butter,  pouring  boiling  wa- 
ter over  all  and  cook  until  thick.  Fill  the  baked 
crust  with  custard.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  egg 
whites  and  spread  over  the  top  and  brown  in  oven. 
This  will  make  two  pies.  Mrs.  E.  H.  Johnson. 

SQUASH  PIE. 

One  pint  milk ;  1  pint  squash ;  3  eggs ;  one-half 
nutmeg;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon;  1  teaspoon  vanilla; 
one-half  teaspoon  ginger;  1  tablespoon  melted  but- 
ter; a  little  salt;  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar; 
beat  eggs  separately — add  whites  last. 

Mrs.  Frank  Coffin. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Two  cups  stewed  pumpkin;  two-thirds  cupful 
sugar;  1  teaspoonful  ginger;  one-half  teaspoonful 
each  of  cinnamon  and  salt;  2  eggs;  enough  milk 
to  make  1  quart.  Stir  sugar,  salt  and  spices  into 
the  pumpkin,  add  eggs  well  beaten  and  then  the 
milk.  Bake  slowly  one  hour.  Do  not  have  enough 
heat  to  boil  pie.  Bake  in  deep  tins,  lined  with  any 
good  pastry. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 
One  cup  pumpkin;  1  or  2  eggs;  one-half  cup 


Idaho  Hardware  Co.  sell  Kookizers. 

\ 


98 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


sugar;  1  tablespoon  flour;  one-half  teaspoon  each 
of  cinnamon  and  ginger;  one  and  one-half  cups 
thin  cream  or  milk.  Squash  may  be  used,  omitting 
the  flour.  Mrs.  Williams. 

JELLY  PIE. 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately;  2  cups  white 
sugar;  1  cup  butter;  1  cup  sweet  cream;  1  glass 
jelly;  2  tablespoons  yanilla.  Stir  yolks  of  eggs 
and  sugar;  cream  butter;  add  cream;  then  jelly, 
and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  with  the  yanilla.  This 
makes  filling  for  two  pies.  Haye  crust  rich  and 
very  thin.  A  slow  oyen  is  necessary.  Currant  jelly 
preferred.  Mrs.  Joseph  Pinkham. 

DATE  PIE. 

Soak  1  lb.  dates  oyer  night  in  water  to  coyer. 
Put  through  a  sieye;  add  1  quart  milk;  2  well  beat- 
en eggs  and  a  little  salt.  This  is  sufficient  for  two 
pies.  Pake  as  pumpkin  pie.  Delicious  and  whole- 
some. LUELLA  MARCELLLS. 

KAISIN  PIE. 

One  lemon,  juice  and  grated  yellow  rind;  1 
cup  raisins;  1  cup  of  water;  1  cup  rolled  crack- 
er crumbs.    Boil  raisins  in  water  to  soften. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Bryan. 

RAISIN  PIE. 

One  and  one-quarter  cups  of  water;  one-half 
cup  of  sugar;  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind;  1 
cup  seeded  raisins,  chopped;  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg;  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  corn  starch.  Mix 


If  you  need  anything  in  a  hurry  Telephone  Joy's. 


COOK  BOOK 


99 


together  and  let  boil.   Make  upper  and  lower  crust. 

Mrs.  Tipton. 

RHUBARB  PIE. 

Two  cups  rhubarb  chopped  fine;  pour  boiling 
water  over  it,  let  stand  four  or  five  minutes,  then 
drain  well  1  cup  sugar;  1  tablespoon  flour;  1  tea- 
spoon butter,  or  to  tastes ;  yolk  of  one  egg  and  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg;  whip  white  of  egg  and  put  in  one  and 
one-half  teaspoons  sugar  in  white  of  egg.  Spread 
over  the  top  and  put  in  oven  to  brown.  Bake  with- 
out upper  crust.    This  is  only  enough  for  one  pie. 

Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart. 

APPLE  PIE. 

Line  a  rather  deep  pie  plate  with  pastry  and 
fill  with  tart  apples,  peeled  and  cut  into  slices. 
Sweeten,  using  about  one  cup  of  sugar  for  a  large 
pie,  and  season  with  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  and  one 
tablespoon  butter,  cut  into  little  bits.  Cover  with 
crust  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  apples  are 
tender  and  the  pastry  cooked.         Miss  Long. 

STRAWBERRY  PIE. 

Take  a  tablespoonful  of  nice  fresh  lard  to  one 
pint  of  flour,  work  well  tgoether  dry,  add  a  lit- 
tle salt,  then  add  enough  water  to  make  dough  nice 
to  roll;  put  in  a  pan  and  bake  to  a  nice  brown 
crust;  then  roll  two  soda  crackers  to  fine  crumbs; 
sprinkle  over  the  crust,  add  a  few  small  pieces  of 
butter;  put  your  strawberries  in  dry;  sprinkle  a 
little  sugar  over  them;  put  in  a  heated  oven  five 
minutes;  take  out  and  put  in  cool  place;  spread 
whipped  cream  over  top  if  you  like. 

Mrs.  R.  S.  Shaw. 


Patronize  Evans'  Jewelry  Store.    He  will  try  to  merit  it. 


100 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


MINCE  MEAT. 

Two  pounds  of  meat;  1  small  beef  tongue;  1 
bowl  (measuring  1  quart)  of  ground  suet;  3  bowls 
of  chopped  apples;  put  through  the  meat  mincer; 

1  pound  of  citron;  one-half  pound  orange  peel; 
one-half  pound  lemon  peel;  four  whole  lemons;  3 
pounds  of  Sultana  raisins  used  instead  of  currants; 

2  pounds  of  choice  layer  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  into 
pieces;  2  glasses  of  jelly;  1  quart  bottle  of  best 

boiled  cider;  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  light 
brown  sugar;  1  quart  of  syrup,  taken  from  spiced 
peaches;  1  pint  of  best  brandy;  cinnamon;  cloves; 
nutmeg  and  allspice  to  taste.  Heat  all  thoroughly 
and  put  away  in  quart  jars.   Makes  about  9  quarts. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

Two  pounds  of  lemons,  weighed  whole;  boil 
them  tender  and  use  either  the  juice  alone  or  slice 
them  and  use  the  rinds  as  well;  2  pounds  of  tart 
apples ;  2  pounds  of  raisins ;  2  pounds  of  currants ; 
two  and  one-half  pounds  of  brown  sugar;  2  pounds 
of  suet  chopped  fine;  1  pound  of  citron;  3  wine 
glasses  of  brandy;  1  wine  glass  of  sherry;  one-half 
ounce  of  salt;  2  nutmegs;  one-half  teaspoon  of  gin- 
ger; 1  teaspoon  of  mace;  1  teaspoon  of  all  other 
kinds  of  spices.  Add  a  cupful  or  two  of  any  kind 
of  jam,  strawberry  is  especially  nice;  add  enough 
sherry  to  moisten  well;  let  all  come  to  a  boil  and 
get  thoroughly  heated  then  seal  in  fruit  jars. 

Each  time  when  ready  to  use,  add  a  few 
chopped  apples  and  possibly  a  little  more  sugar. 

Mrs.  Forshay. 


GET  YOUR  PIANO  AT  EILERS — 709  Idaho  St. 


COOK  BOOK 


101 


MINCE  MEAT  RECIPE. 

Four  pounds  lean  beef,  chopped  fine;  one  and 
one-half  pounds  beef  suet;  10  pounds  apples;  5 
pounds  seedless  raisins;  5  pounds  currants;  2 
^>unds  citron;  6  pounds  brown  sugar;  5  table- 
spoons cinnamon;  2  tablespoons  nutmeg;  2  table- 
spoons cloves ;  2  tablespoons  allspice ;  2  tablespoons 
salt;  one-half  gallon  gooseberries;  one-half  gal- 
lon cherries.     Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Mrs.  Jas.  H.  Hawley. 


Boise  City  Nat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


102 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


.SMALL  CAKES. 


COOKIES. 

Beat  to  a  cream  1  cup  butter  with  2  cups  sugar, 
3  eggs — yolks  and  whites  separate,  then  add  flavor- 
ing— and  enough  flour  to  make  paste  firm  enough 
to  roll  thin. 

Brush  tops  with  white  of  egg  and  sprinkle 
with  granulated  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  place 
half  a  blanched  almond  in  each  center. 

Catherine  Moore. 

COOKIES. 

Three  eggs;  2  cups  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  butter; 
1  cup  of  sour  cream;  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda, 
mixed  in  a  little  sweet  milk.  Into  1  cup  of  flour 
sift  3  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  mix  all 
together  and  add  flour  enough  to  roll  well;  cut 
infr*  cookies  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Forsha^. 

NUT  COOKIES. 

One  scant  cup  of  butter;  2  eggs;  2  cups  of 
brown  sugar;  one-half  cup  of  nuts;  one-half  cup 
of  raisins ;  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda ;  4  tablespoons 


Mickle  seUs  electric  shades. 


COOK  BOOK  103 


of  sweet  milk ;  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  thor- 
oughly until  stiff  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Curtis  F.  Pyke. 

COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar;  1  cup  lard  or  butter;  1  cup 
milk;  2  eggs;  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  one-half 
teaspoon  soda;  flavor  with  nutmeg  and  knead  stiff. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Morlen, 

ROCKS. 

One  scant  cup  of  butter ;  one  and  one-half  cups 
sugar ;  3  eggs ;  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon ;  1  tea- 
spoon allspice;  1  scant  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved 
in  3  tablespoons  of  hot  water;  one  and  one-half 
cups  seeded  raisins;  1  pint  English  walnuts, 
chopped  medium  fine;  3  cups  flour;  stir  all  togeth- 
er; drop  the  size  of  a  walnut  on  buttered  tins;  don't 
smooth  them  over,  leave  them  rough. 

Mrs.  Forshay. 

PEANUT  COOKIES. 

One  cup  butter;  one  and  one-half  cups  powd- 
ered sugar;  3  eggs;  1  cup  freshly  roasted  peanuts, 
rolled  to  a  coarse  powder  and  mixed  with  3  cups 
of  flour. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten 
eggs,  then  the  flour  and  crushed  peanuts;  mix 
stiff  enough  to  handle  easily.  Drop  tne  dough  by 
tne  spoonful  on  a  floured  pan,  pat  in  round  cakes 
with  the  hand,  grate  nutmeg  over  each  cake  and 
bake. 

OATMEAL  CAKES. 
One  cup  butter;  1  cup  brown  sugar;  2  eggs;  8 


You  will  be  treated  right  at  the  Bank  of  Commerce. 


•      104  COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


tablespoons  milk;  1  cup  flour;  o  cups  oatmeal;  one- 
half  teaspoon  soda ;  1  teaspoon  vanilla ;  a  cup  of 
raisins  or  nuts  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  Alfred*  Eoff. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  rolled  oats ;  one  and  one- 
quarter  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  1  cup  sour 
cream;  pinch  of  salt;  1  teaspoon  soda;  one  and 
one-half  cups  chopped  figs  or  dates,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  paste. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  cream,  soda  and 
salt;  then  rolled  oats  and  fruit,  and  lastly  flour. 
Roll  thin  and  cut  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Anderson. 

BANGOR  BROWNIES. 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter  and  1  cup  sugar; 
2  eggs  unbeaten;  three-quarters  cup  flour;  one  and 
one-half  squares  melted  chocolate  (bitter)  ;  one 
half  cup  chopped  walnut  meats.  Mix  in  order  giv- 
en and  bake  in  buttered  pans,  spreading  mixture 
one-quarter  inch  thick.  Watch  very  carefully  while 
baking,  that  they  do  not  burn.  When  done  cut  in 
squares  while  mixture  is  hot,  as  they  become  crisp 
very  quickly.  Harriett  O'Conner. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  CRISPS. 

One  cup  rich  cream,  (sweet  or  sour)  ;  one- 
quarter  cup  sugar;  1  salt  spoon  salt;  2  cups  fine 
whole  wheat  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Knead  15  minutes  or  till  stiff  enough  to  roll  out 
thin  as  a  wafer.  Bake  on  an  ungreased  tin  in  a 
not  oven. 


One  dollar  as  a  starter  may  get  you  a  home — Bank  of  Com- 


COOK  BOOK 


105 


COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

One  cud  of  milk:  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  2  cups 
of  flour;  1  egg;  3  tablespons  melted  butter;  2  tea- 
spoons butter:  2  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  powder; 
1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract.  Mix  butter  and  sugar, 
add  the  beaten  egg,  milk,  flour  and  vanilla.  Bake 
in  gem  tins  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done  scoop 
out  the  center,  fill  with  strawberry  jam  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream,  to  which  a  little  sugar  and 
vanilla  has  been  added.    Mrs.  H.  W.  Dunton. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

Melt  one-half  cup  of  butter  in  1  cup  of  hot  wa- 
ter, and,  while  boiling,  beat  in  1  cup  of  flour.  Then 
remove  from  stove,  and  when  cool  stir  in  3  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  without  beating.  Drop  by  small 
spoonfuls  on  tins  quickly,  about  two  inches  apart, 
and  bake  about  25  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
When  puffs  are  done,  open  the  side  with  a  sharp 
knife  and  fill  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored  to  taste.  Mrs.  C.  K.  McCrum. 

GINGER  BREAD. 

One-half  cup  molasses;  one-half  cup  sugar; 
three-quarters  cup  butter;  2  eggs;  2  cups  flour, 
(scant)  ;  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  ginger, 
nutmeg;  1  cup  sour  milk  or  water;  one-half  tea- 
spoon soda  in  milk  or  water;  one-half  cup  raisins; 
one-half  cup  currants.  Cream  butter  and  sugar; 
add  beaten  eggs,  molasses,  flour,  ( mixed  with  fruit ) 
and  milk  alternately,  and  lastly  the  spices.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven.  Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen. 

GINGER  BREAD. 
One  cup  molasses;  one-half  cup  mixed  butter 


merce. 


106 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


and  lard;  one  and  two-thirds  cups  of  flour;  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  of 
boiling  water ;  1  teaspoonful  of  ginger. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Johnson. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

One  cup  sugar;  one-half  cup  butter;  1  cup 
molasses ;  1  cup  sour  milk ;  three  and  one-half  cups 
flour;  1  teaspoonf  ul  soda;  1  teaspoonful  ginger;  1 
teaspoonful  cinnamon.  Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart. 

MACAROONS 

One  pound  of  almond  paste ;  one  and  one-quar- 
ter pounds  sugar;  10  whites  of  eggs. 

Mrs.  Thos.  Davis. 

MARGUERITES. 

Whites  of  2  eggs;  1  cup  chopped  pecans;  1 
cup  pulverized  sugar;  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Whites 
to  be  beaten  stiff.  Add  sugar,  stirring  well,  then 
pecans  and  vanilla,  stirring  all  together.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  on  paraffine  paper ;  brown  slowly  in  oven 

Mrs.  George  Wise. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One-third  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  2  cups 
sweet  milk;  3  eggs;  pinch  of  salt;  nutmeg;  1  heap- 
ing teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to  every  pint  of 
flour  used  to  make  them  stiff  enough  to  roll  out. 

Mrs.  0.  K.  McCrum. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cup  milk,  (sweet)  ;  1  cup  sugar;  2  eggs; 
1  teaspoon  melted  butter;    one-quarter  teaspoon 


H  &  H  Stamps  at  Latham's. 


COOK  BOOK 


107 


salt;  one-quarter  teaspoon  mace;  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder;  flour  to  handle;  cream  the  sugar  and 
butter;  add  the  milk  and  then  the  flour  with  the 
mace  and  baking  powder.  Roll  to  quarter  inch 
thickness,  cut  out  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mary  A.  Holliday. 

DOUGHNUTS 

One  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  salt,  1  cup  sour  cream, 
1  teaspoonful  soda,  cinnamon;  mix  and  let  stand 
a  while  before  frying,  after  molding  them  out. 

Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart. 

DOUGHNUTS 

One  egg,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  3  pints 
of  flour  (scant  measure),  3  teaspoonsful  of  baking 
powder;  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon. 

Mrs.  Tipton. 


Elwell  Kitchen  Cabinets. 


Standard  Furniture  Co. 


108 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


"She  measured  out  the  butter  with  a  very  solemn  air; 

The  milk  and  sugar  also;  she  took  the  greatest  care 
To  count  the  eggs  correctly,  and  to  add  a  little  bit 

Of  baking  powder,  which  you  know,  beginners  oft  omit. 
Then  she  stirred  it  all  together,  and  she  baked  it  full  an  hour, 

But  she  never  quite  forgave  herself  for  leaving  out  the  flour." 


POUND  CAKE 

One  lb.  of  flour ;  1  lb.  of  butter ;  1  lb.  of  sugar ; 
1  dozen  eggs.  Work  flour  and  butter  to  a  cream 
(with  hand),  beat  yolks  until  very  light,  then  add 
sugar  and  beat  until  grain  is  out,  then  add  to  but- 
ter and  flour;  mix  thoroughly  (not  beat)  ;  lastly 
the  well  beaten  whites ;  bake  in  slow  oven  about  one 
hour.  Mrs.  Joseph  Pinkham. 

FKUIT  CAKE— 20  POUNDS 

Two  pounds  flour;  iy2  lbs.  butter;  one  and 
a  half  lbs.  sugar;  4  lbs.  currants;  4  lbs.  raisins;  one- 
half  lb.  citron;  1  lb.  nuts  (walnuts)  crushed;  1  lb. 
figs,  simmer  and  chop  fine ;  one-half  lb.  orange  peel ; 
one-half  lb.  lemon  peel;  2  bars  chocolate;  one-half 
gill  brandy  (2  ozs.)  ;  one-fourth  gill  rose  water  (1 
oz. )  ;  1  teaspoon  bitter  almond ;  15  eggs ;  one  and  a 
half  oz.  nutmeg  (10  medium  size)  ;  one  and  a  half 
oz.  cinnamon  (6  even  tablespoons)  ;  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  cloves;  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  all- 


Our  Linoleum  for  the  kitchen  is  easily 


COOK  BOOK 


109 


spice;  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder;  1  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water ;  1  glass 
dark  jelly;  1  glass  preserves;  1  glass  orange  mar- 
malade. Sift  baking  powder  into  flour.  Put  flour 
in  with  fruit.  Simmer  spices  and  chocolate  in  little 
coffee.  Cream,  butter  and  sugar;  add  spices,  rose 
water,  flavoring,  soda  (dissolved  in  little  water) 
and  brandy  then  all  the  jam  or  jelly  to  be  used; 
beat  eggs  light  and  add;  put  in  fruit  by  degrees  un- 
til all  in.  Pan  should  be  double  lined  with  brown 
paper.  In  one  loaf  cake  bake  four  hours.  The 
oven  must  be  very  slow;  cake  should  only  nicely 
warm  through  the  first  hour;  increase  heat  gradu- 
ally. Mrs.  Crutcher. 

POUND  CAKE 

One  pound  butter;  one  pound  sugar,  one 
pound  of  flour,  ten  eggs,  leaving  out  two  yolks; 
beat  the  Avhites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  cream  the  butter 
and  sugar;  add  the  yolks  and  beat  till  very  light; 
then  the  flour  and  whites  of  the  eggs  alternately. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.         Mrs.  A.  Rossi. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

Twelve  eggs,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound 
brown  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  half  cup  molasses, 
half  cup  of  coffee,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  one 
of  soda,  three  pounds  of  raisins,  four  pounds  of 
currants,  half  pound  citron,  candied  peel  of  one 
lemon,  one  pound  walnuts,  two  tablespoonsful  cin- 
namon, one  of  cloves,  one  of  mace,  one  nutmeg. 
Mix  same  as  pound  cake;  add  spices  and  fruit  last; 
put  a  layer  of  dough  in  pan  first,  next  a  layer  of 
citron  sliced  thin,  and  so  on  alternately  until  all  is 
in.    Bake  four  hours.  Mrs.  Rossi. 


cleaned.     ALLEN-WRIGHT  FURNITURE  CO. 


110 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


SIX  EGG  CAKE 

Six  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one- 
half  cup  of  new  milk,  three  and  one-third  cups  of 
flour,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar,  half  teaspoon 
of  soda.   This  is  good  as  pound  cake. 

Mrs.  A.  Rossi. 

MRS.  CRUTCHER'S  FRUIT  CAKE 

Two  lbs.  flour,  3  cups  after  sifting;  one  and  a 
half  lbs.  butter;  one  and  a  half  lbs.  brown  sugar; 
4  lbs.  currants;  4  lbs.  raisins;  one-half  lb.  citron;  1 
lb.  walnuts;  1  lb.  almonds,  blanched  and  rolled;  1 
lb.  figs,  chopped  fine;  one  and  a  half  lbs.  orange 
peel;  one  and  a  half  lbs.  lemon  peel;  2  bars  choco- 
late; one-half  gill  brandy;  one-fourth  gill  rose 
Avater  (1  gill  equals  6  tablespoons)  ;  1  teaspoon  bit- 
ter almond ;  one  and  a  half  ounces  nutmeg ;  one  and 
a  half  ounces  cinnamon;  (1  oz.  equals  2  table- 
spoons) ;  three-fourths  oz.  cloves;  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon baking  powder;  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  glass 
blackberry  jelly;  1  glass  jam;  peach  pickle  juice; 
15  eggs.  Sift  baking  powder  with  fruit;  simmer 
spices  with  1  cup  coffee;  bake  three  and  a  half 
hours. 

NUT  FRUIT  CAKE 

One  and  a  half  cups  sugar;  2  cups  butter;  1 
cup  sour  milk;  5  cups  flour;  5  eggs;  1  lb. 
raisins ;  1  lb.  currants ;  one-fourth  lb.  citron ;  6  cups 
nuts  (pecans  are  best)  ;  1  teaspoon  soda;  one-half 
cup  NeAv  Orleans  molasses;  1  tablespoon  of  vanilla 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Mix  same  as  other  cakes  and 
bake  in  slow  OA^en.  Mrs.  C.  C.  Anderson. 


Boston  Meat  Market,  J.  W.  Stevens  &  Son  Props,,  1008  Main 


COOK  BOOK 


111 


ENGLISH  FRUIT  CAKE 

One  lb.  powdered  sugar  or  granulated;  three- 
fourths  lb.  butter;  1  lb.  flour;  twelve  eggs;  2  lbs. 
raisins;  2  lbs.  currants;  one-fourth  lb.  citron  cut  in 
strips ;  one  teaspoon  each  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nut- 
meg; one  wine  glass  brandy  and  port  wine.  Dry 
sift  and  weigh  the  flour,  wash  currants  carefully, 
seed  raisins,  take  a  handful  of  flour  and  dredge 
fruit,   cream   the  butter  and   sugar,   add  yolks 
of  eggs  beaten  lightly,  then   spices,  beat  whites 
of  eggs  to  a  foam,  add  part  of  the  flour  and  then 
whites  of  the  eggs  alternately,  now  wine  and  bran- 
dy, mix  thoroughly,  add  fruit,  bake  four  hours. 
Have  a  steady  fire  the  first  hour  ami  just  let  it  heat 
through ;  bake  steady  the  two  hours,  slowly  the  last 
hour.  Mrs.  A.  W.  Beck. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

One  pound  of  sugar;  1  pound  of  butter;  12 
eggs;  1  teacup  of  molasses;  1  teacup  of  brandy;  1 
pound  of  flour;  2  pounds  of  currants;  2  pounds  of 
raisins;  1  pound  of  citron;  one-half  pound  of  can- 
died lemons;  one  pound  of  mixed  nuts  weighed  af- 
ter shelled ;  1  pound  figs .  or  dates ;  1  nutmeg ;  2  tea- 
spoons of  cinnamon;  1  teaspoon  of  cloves;  a  little 
salt.  Mrs.  Forshay. 

BROWN  FIG  CAKE 

One-third  lb.  nice  figs,  ground;  1  cup  raisins; 
1  even  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  1  cup  boiling 
water,  and  pour  over  figs  and  raisins;  let  stand, 
then  mix  cake  part:  1  cup  sugar;  one-half  cup  but- 
ter, cream,  and  add  4  eggs,  taking  out  2  whites  for 
icing;  add  chopped  nuts  to  suit  taste;  1  teaspoonful 


Boise  City  Nat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


112 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


cinnamon ;  one-half  teaspoonf ul  allspice  and  part  of 
grated  nutmeg;  then  sift  one  and  a  half  cups  flour 
with  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  pinch  of  salt. 
Bake  3  layers.  Louise  Johnson. 

DKIED  APPLE  CAKE 

One  and  a  half  cups  sugar;  three-fourths  cup 
butter ;  three-fourths  cup  sour  milk ;  3  eggs ;  3  cups 
dried  apples ;  1  lb.  raisins ;  one  and  a  half  cups  mo- 
lasses; 3  cups  flour;  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  soda; 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon;  one-half  teaspoon  cloves. 
Soak  apples  over  night,  chop  fine  and  boil  them  in 
the  molasses  2  hours.  Effie  G.  Paling. 

PLAIN  DKIED  APPLE  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar;  one-half  cup  butter;  one-half 
cup  sour  milk;  1  egg;  2  cups  dried  apples  soaked 
over  night  and  cooked  in  1  cup  molasses  for  2 
hours ;  2  cups  flour ;  1  teaspoon  soda  and  spices. 

Mrs.  Samuel  H.  Hays. 

FIG  CAKE 

Two  cups  sugar;  two-thirds  cup  butter;  1  cup 
sweet  milk;  whites  of  eight  eggs;  3  cups  flour;  2 
heaping  teaspoonf uls  baking  powder;  add  a  little 
more  flour  if  you  think  it  not  stiff  enough. 

Fig  Filling 

Three-fourths  lbs.  figs;  one-half  lb.  almonds, 
blanched  and  pounded  fine;  one-fourth  lb.  citron. 
Chop  figs  and  citron  very  fine.  Put  all  together  in 
a  pan  with  wine  glass  of  wine  (sherry).  Stand  on 
the  stove  and  simmer  a  few  minutes. 


If  you  need  anything  in  a  hurry  Telephone  Joy's. 


COOK  BOOK 


113 


POTATO  CAKE 

Three-fourths  cup  of  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  4 
eggs  beaten  separately;  one-half  cup  milk;  2  cups 
flour;  1  cup  mashed  potatoes;  2  teaspoons  baking- 
powder;  1  cup  chopped  English  walnuts;  2  sticks 
chocolate;  1  teaspoon  each  cloves,  nutmeg  and  cin- 
namon. 

Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen. 

FKUIT  CUP  CAKES 

One  cup  brown  sugar;  one-half  cup  butter; 
2  eggs,  beaten  together;  one-half  cup  sour  cream; 
one-half  teaspoon  soda;  1  cup  flour;  1  cup  nuts;  1 
cup  raisins;  2  teaspoons  cinnamon;  1  teaspoon  all- 
spice; one-half  teaspoon  cloves.  Beat  the  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  cream ;  add  the  sour  cream,  then  the 
eggs  well  beaten,  and  the  flour  with  the  soda  sifted 
in  it;  then  the  spices,  chopped  nuts  and  lastly  the 
raisins  dredged  with  flour.  The  batter  should  not 
be  too  thick.  S.  Belle  Chamberlain. 

BLACKBERRY  CAKE 

Three  eggs ;  1  cup  sugar ;  three-fourths  cup  but- 
ter; one  and  a  half  cups  flour;  1  cup  blackberry  jam 
or  preserves ;  3  tablespoons  sour  cream ;  1  teaspoon 
each  soda,  allspice,  cinnamon ;  1  nutmeg.  Stir  well 
and  bake  in  layers  and  put  icing  between. 

Mrs.  R.  S.  Shaw. 

HICKORY  NUT  CAKE 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs;  three  coffee  cups  of 
white  sugar ;  one  coffee  cup  of  butter  ;one  coffee  cup 
of  milk ;  five  cups  of  flour ;  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
poAvder,  and  a  pint  of  nut  meats.    Bake  in  layers 


Boise  City  Nat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


114 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


as  for  jelly  cake,  with  icing  between,  or  in  large 
cake.  If  baked  in  loaf,  the  cake  will  be  improved 
by  adding  a  pound  of  raisins.  Walnuts  may  be 
used.    Half  the  recipe  makes  a  good  sized  cake. 

Mrs.  Eossi. 

SPICE  CAKE 

One  cup  butter ;  2  cups  sugar ;  1  cup  molasses ; 
4  cups  flour;  6  eggs;  1  tablespoon  each  cloves,  all- 
spice, cinnamon,  ginger;  one-half  nutmeg;  1  cup 
sour  milk  (or  same  in  sweet  milk  and  baking  pow- 
der) ;  1  teaspoonful  soda;  if  one  likes  fruit,  1  lb. 
raisins.  Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart. 

"JUST  LOVELY"  CAKE 

Two  cups  brown  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  1  cup 
sour  milk ;  5  eggs ;  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  one- 
fourth  cup  hot  water ;  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour ; 
add  one-half  cake  grated  chocolate  to  the  batter  be- 
fore putting  in  flour ;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  a 
very  slow  oven.   Nuts  or  raisins  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal. 

FIG  CAKE 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter;  gradually  beat  in 
1  cup  sugar;  then  alternately  one-half  cup  of  milk 
and  2  cups  of  sifted  flour,  sifted  with  3  level 
teaspoonsful  baking  powder;  flavor  with  vanilla 
and  beat  in  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  dry;  have 
one-half  pound  of  nice  figs  cut  up  in  small  squares 
drop  them  into  cake  mixture  when  putting  into  the 
pan.   AYhen  cool  spread  with  boiled  frosting. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal. 


Automatic  Refrigerators,  look  best,  are 


COOK  BOOK 


115 


MOTHER  ROBERTS'  SPONGE  CAKE 

Ten  eggs ;  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon ; 
1  lb.  pulverized  sugar ;  one-half  lb.  well  sifted  flour. 
Beat  eggs  separately;  beat  eggs,  yolk  and  sugar 
together,  then  add  lemons,  then  whites  little  at  a 
time  and  lastly  flour  little  at  a  time.  Bake  one  hour 
in  slow  oven.  Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Roberts. 

VARIETY  CAKE 

ful  baking  powder ;  to  one  half  of  this  add  one  half 
teaspoonful  cinnamon  and  allspice  each,  and  one 
cup  of  raisins.  Bake  whole  cake  in  two  tins  and 
put  together  with  any  desired  frosting.  . 

Mrs.  H.  J.  Roan. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Two  cups  of  sugar ;  1  cup  of  hot  water ;  2  cups 
of  flour;  2  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder;  4  eggs; 
a  little  salt;  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Ross  Cartee. 

BUTTERMILK  CAKE 

One  cup  sour  milk  or  buttermilk ;  1  cup  sugar ; 
one-half  cup  butter;  2  cups  flour;  1  teaspoonful 
soda,  scant;  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon;  one-half 
teaspoonful  cloves;  one-half  teaspoonful  nutmeg; 
1  cup  of  raisins  or  currants. 

PLAIN  CUP  CAKE 

One-cup  sugar;  1  cup  milk  (sweet)  one-half 
cup  butter;  2  eggs;  two  and  one-fourth  cups  of 
flour;  2  teaspoonsful  baking  powder,  rounded. 

Mrs.  Witham. 


best,    ALLEN-WRIGHT  FURNITURE  CO.  LTD. 


116 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


WHITE  CAKE 

One-half  cup  of  butter ;  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
sugar;  three-fourths  cup  of  milk;  two  and  a  half 
cups  of  flour ;  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  baking 
powder;  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth; 
flavor  with  almond  extract.  Cream,  butter  and 
sugar ;  add  the  milk,  then  flour  and  baking  powder, 
and  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs.      Mrs.  Tipton. 

WHITE  CAKE 

One  cup  of  sugar ;  one-half  cup  of  butter ;  three- 
fourths  cup  of  milk ;  2  cups  of  flour ;  1  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder;  whites  of  four  eggs;  1 
teaspoon  of  flavoring.  Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar 
and  beat  well ;  add  part  of  the  milk,  then  one  cup  of 
flour;  beat  well,  add  remainder  of  milk,  then  flour 
with  baking  powder.  Lastly  add  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Ice  with  boiled  icing  to  which  has 
been  added  one-half  cup  of  chopped  raisins  just  be- 
fore icing  is  ready  for  cake.         Mrs.  Tipton. 

WHITE  CAKE 

Two-thirds  cup  butter;  one  and  a  half  cups 
frosting  sugar;  two-thirds  cup  sweet  milk;  3  cups 
flour;  8  whites  of  eggs;  1  teaspoonful  almond  ex- 
tract ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  Aikman. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE 

Six  eggs;  1  cup  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  flour;  one- 
third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar ;  sift,  meas- 
ure and  set  aside  flour  and  sugar  as  for  angel  cake ; 
beat  whites  of  the  eggs  about  half,  add  the  cream  of 
tartar  and  beat  until  very  stiff ;  add  sugar  and  stir 


Automatic  Refrigerators  have  positive  air  circula- 


COOK  BOOK 


117 


in  lightly;  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  then 
the  flour  and  one  small  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Bake  35  to  50  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Tipton. 

TILDEN  CAKE 

One  cup  butter,  two  of  pulverized  sugar,  one 
of  sweet  milk,  three  of  flour,  half  cup  corn  starch, 
four  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  of 
lemon  extract.  Mrs.  W.  E.  Pierce. 

ANGEL  FOOD 

One  tumbler  flour;  one  and  one-half  tumblers 
sugar ;  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar ;  whites  of  twelve 
eggs.  How  to  mix :  Sift  flour  and  sugar  together 
eight  times,  then  add  cream  tartar  and  sift  two  or 
three  times;  sift  all  into  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs 
and  add  one  teaspoon  vanilla;  bake  fifty  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Beck. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

One  tumber  of  flour  before  it  is  sifted;  1  tum- 
bler bar  sugar;  one-half  tumbler  of  granulated 
sugar;  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  whites  of  eleven 
eggs;  sift  flour  four  times,  then  add  sugar  and  sift 
together  8  times ;  the  cream  tartar  should  be  added 
while  sifting  so  it  may  be  well  mixed  with  flour  and 
sugar;  beat  eggs  stiff  and  sift  flour  and  sugar  into 
white  of  eggs ;  add  a  little  salt  and  teaspoon  vanil- 
la; just  stir  flour  in  lightly;  bake  fifty  minutes  in 
moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Loree. 

ANGEL  CAKE 
Into  one  tumbler  flour  put  one  teaspoon  cream 


tion.    ALLEN-WRIGHT  FURNITURE  CO.  LTD. 


118 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


of  tartar  and  sift  three  times ;  sift  one  and  one-half 
tumblers  of  granulated  sugar  three  times;  beat  the 
whites  of  eleven  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  stir  into  them 
the  sugar,  add  three  spoons  vanilla  extract;  lastly, 
stir  in  very  lightly  the  flour.  Bake  40  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Do  not  grease  the  tin.  When  done 
rest  the  edges  of  the  tin  on  a  saucer  so  a  current  of 
air  can  pass  under  and  over  the  cake. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Maberly. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  ANGEL  CAKE 

Make  an  angel  cake  and  bake  in  two  square 
layers ;  when  perf ectly  cold  put  between  and  on  top 
the  following  icing :  One  and  three-fourths  cupsful 
powdered  sugar ;  add  one  cup  maple  syrup  and  one- 
half  cup  cream ;  boil  till  a  soft  ball  will  form  when 
tried  in  cold  water;  remove  from  the  stove  and 
when  partly  cool  beat  to  a  cream;  then  add  one- 
fourth  cup  each  of  chopped  candied  pineapple,  can- 
died cherries  and  blanched  and  chopped  almonds. 

Mrs.  Carol  L.  Sweet* 

MARBLE  CAKE 

One  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar,  creamed;  three 
and  a  fourth  cups  flour;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  4  eggs 
beaten  separately;  2  even  teaspoons  cream  tartar; 
1  teaspoon  soda  ;  take  out  one  cup  of  dough  and 
darken  with  spices  and  chocolate ;  place  alternately 
with  the  remainder  of  the  dough  in  the  pan.  Bake 
slowly  in  a  moderate  oven.    Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Beck. 

ORANGE  CAKE 

Four  eggs;  2  cups  sugar;  one-half  cup  butter; 
1  cup  cold  water  or  milk ;  3  cups  flour ;  2  teaspoons 


Try  our  savings  department — Bank  of  Commerce. 


COOK  BOOK 


119 


baking  powder;  1  orange,  grated  rind  and  pulp. 
Reserve  two  of  the  whites  for  frosting  the  top. 

ORANGE  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar;  oue-half  cup  butter,  creamed; 
two  and  a  half  cups  Hour;  1  orange,  use  juice  and 
grated  rind;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  5  eggs, 
yolks  and  whites  divided,  whites  beaten  to  a  snow 
and  added  lastly.  For  one-half  the  recipe  use  3 
eggs  and  one  and  a  half  cups  flour. 

Mrs.  Max  Hirsch. 

NEW  ENGLAND  LAYER  CAKE 

Make  this  first  into  a  custard  (place  on  stove 
where  it  will  not  burn)  :  1  cup  sweet  milk;  1  cup 
chocolate,  grated ;  stir  slowly  into  the  milk  until  it 
is  dissolved;  then  add  a  cup  of  sugar  and  the  yolk 
of  one  egg  beaten ;  then  let  cool.  When  the  custard 
is  cool  add  next  1  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
one-half  cup  sweet  milk ;  2  eggs  Avell  beaten ;  2  table- 
spoons of  mince  meat,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  table- 
spoon water,  two  and  a  half  cups  flour;  moderate 
oven;  use  jelly  or  an}7  filling  to  suit  taste. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Wise. 

FRESH  APPLE  CAKE 

One  cup  butter;  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar;  3 
cups  flour  (before  sifting)  ;  3  eggs;  1  cup  sweet 
milk;  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  baking  powder;  a 
pinch  salt.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs,  milk,  and  lastly  flour;  slice  apples 
fine,  gut  in  rows  in  cake,  sprinkle  with  nutmeg  or 
cinnamon;  when  one-half  done  sprinkle  with  gran- 
ulated sugar.  Pineapple  in  place  of  the  apples  is 
very  nice.  Mrs.  Leonard  Logan. 


GET  YOUR  PIANO  AT  EILERS — 709  Idaho  St. 


120 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


ORANGE  SPONGE  CAKES 

Five  eggs;  1  cup  of  sugar;  2  tablespoons  of 
cold  water;  juice  of  1  orange;  1  teaspoon  of  baking- 
powder;  1  cup  of  flour  sifted  several  times.  Bake 
in  bread  tin  or  in  muffin  tins ;  remove  top,  take  out 
enough  of  the  cake  to  make  room  for  the  following 
filling;  replace  top. 

Filling 

Put  on  fire,  stir  constantly,  and  do  not  allow 
it  to  boil,  the  following:  One-half  cup  powdered 
sugar;  grated  rind  of  1  orange;,  juice  of  1  lemon;  3 
tablespoons  of  sherry;  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs;  add 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  after  taking  mix- 
ture from  fire.  Cool  thoroughly  before  placing  in 
cakes.  Mrs.  Cobb. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Three  eggs;  1  cup  of  sugar;  1  heaping  cup  of 
flour;  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  water;  1  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder;  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon.  Beat  yolks  of  the  eggs  light,  add  the  sugar 
and  beat  well,  add  the  water  and  lemon  juice;  whip 
whites  of  eggs  to  stiff  froth  and  fold  them  in;  add 
baking  powder  and  flour,  beating  as  little  as  pos- 
sible after  adding  the  flour.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  from  45  minutes  to  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Tipton. 

VELVET  SPONGE  CAKE 

Two  cups  sugar;  6  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites 
of  three;  1  cup  boiling  water;  tAvo  and  a  half  cups 
flour;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  flour;  beat  the 
yolks  of  eggs  a  little,  add  sugar  and  beat  fifteen 
minutes;  add  the  three  beaten  whites  and  cup  of 


In  Salad  Dressing  much  depends  upon  the  oil — Get  "Beri 


COOK  BOOK 


121 


boiling  water  just  before  the  flour;  flavor  with  1 
teaspoon  lemon  extract.       Mrs.  A.  W.  Beck. 

LOAF  CAKE 

Two  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  three  and  a  half 
cups  flour  sifted;  1  scant  cup  sweet  milk;  one-half 
teaspoon  soda;  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  five  eggs. 
Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  sparately;  mix  cream 
tartar  and  soda  well;  then  sift  with  flour; 
cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  yolks  beaten  well, 
then  milk  and  flour  alternately  with  the  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  stiff.  Mrs.  A.  W.  Beck. 

BUTTERMILK  CAKE 

One-half  cup  butter  (creamed)  add  to  one  and 
a  half  cups  sugar  and  cream;  add  3  eggs  (yolks) 
well  beaten ;  one-half  pint  of  buttermilk ;  1  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon  of  boiling  water. 
Beat  well  and  add  two  and  a  half  cups  flour  and 
the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  a  steady 
oven  about  40  minutes.  Mrs.  L.  Logan. 

CREAM  CAKES 

(ECLAIRS  A  LA  CREME) 

Ten  eggs;  one-half  cup  butter;  three-fourths 
lb.  flour;  1  pt.  water;  one  and  a  half  pts.  milk;  3 
large  tablespoons  corn  starch;  2  cupsful  sugar; 
yolks  of  5  eggs;  1  large  tablespoon  butter;  2  tea- 
spoonsful  vanilla.  Set  the  water  on  the  fire  in  a 
stew  pan  with  the  butter;  as  soon  as  it  boils  stir  in 
the  sifted  flour  with  a  Avooden  spoon ;  stir  vigorous- 
ly until  it  leaves  the  sides  of  stew  pan ;  then  remove 
from  the  fire  and  beat  in  the  eggs  one  at  a  time; 
place  this  batter  in  a  pointed  canvas  bag,  having  a 


Best"  at  Joy's. 


122 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


small  nozzle  at  the  small  end;  press  out  the  batter 
in  the  shape  of  fingers  on  a  greased  baking  tin,  a 
little  distance  apart.  Bake  in  a  steady  oven  for  20 
minutes.  When  cold,  cut  the  sides  and  fill  with  the 
following : 

Pastry  Cream 

Bring  the  milk  to  boil  with  the  sugar;  add  the 
starch  dissolved  in  a  little  water;  as  soon  as  it  re- 
boils  take  from  the  lire ;  beat  in  the  egg  yolks ;  re- 
turn to  the  fire  two  minutes  to  set  the  eggs;  add  the 
extract  and  butter.    AYhen  cold  use  as  directed. 

Mrs.  Roan. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Dissolve  two  ounces  of  chocolate  in  5  table- 
spoonsful  of  boiling  water;  beat  half  a  cup  of  but- 
ter to  a  cream  and  add  gradually  one  and  a  half 
cupsful  of  sugar,  then  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  then  the  dissolved  chocolate,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  milk  and  one  and  three-fourths  cupsful 
of  flour.  Give  all  a  good  beating.  Whix>  whites  of 
four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  carefully  into  the 
mixture.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Mix  quick- 
ly and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.     Mrs.  Tiptox. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMEL  CAKE 

Shave  off  one  inch  of  Baker's  chocolate;  add 
one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  yolk 
of  one  egg;  boil  until  thickens,  in  double  boiler, 
then  set  off  and  let  it  cool.  One  cup  of  sugar;  one- 
half  cup  of  butter;  2  eggs;  one  cup  of  sweet  milk; 
beat  eggs  separate ;  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour ;  2 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  2  teaspoons  of  vanil- 


food.    Get  the  pure  at  Joy's. 


COOK  BOOK 


123 


la.  Before  adding  the  flour  add  the  cooked  choco- 
late; mix  all  thoroughly  and  bake  in  layers. 

Mrs.  Forshay. 

BROWN  CAKE 

One  and  a  half  cups  sugar;  one-half  cup  but- 
ter; 4  eggs  (beat  whites  and  yolks  separately)  ;  3 
cups  flour;  2  teaspoonsful  baking  powder;  1  cup 
walnuts  (chopped);  1  teaspoon  cinnamon;  1  tea- 
spoon allspice;  1  teaspoon^  cloves;  1  tablespoon 
syrup;  1  cup  sweet  milk ;  3  bars  chocolate  (grated) . 

Mrs.  Jas.  H.  Hawley. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD 

Two  cups  brown  sugar;  one-half  cup  butter;  2 
eggs ;  one-half  cup  sour  milk ;  one-fourth  cup  grated 
chocolate  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  boiling  water; 
one-half  teaspoon  soda;  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla 
Filling  for  Layers 

One-half  pint  milk,  heat  and  stir  in  one-half 
cup  grated  chocolate,  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon corn  starch.  Mrs.  E.  S.  Shaw. 

SPICE  CAKE 

One  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  3  cups  flour;  1 
cup  sour  milk ;  I  eggs ;  fruit  and  spices  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Houston. 

NUT  LOAF  CAKE 

One-half  cup  butter ;  1  cup  sugar ;  2  cups  flour ; 
three-fourths  cup  milk ;  1  cup  walnuts  ( rolled )  ;  2 
teaspoons  baking  poAvder;  3  eggs,  ("ream  butter, 
add  sugar  slowly  until  all  in,  put  in  well  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs,  one  cup  flour  and  part  of  milk,  sec- 


Olive  Oil  contains  more  nutriment  than  any  other  known 


124 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


ond  cup  of  flour  into  which  baking  powder  has 
been  sifted,  and  remainder  of  milk,  and  well  beaten 
whites.  Beat  thoroughly  after  adding  each  thing. 
Bake  in  loaf  in  slow  oven.  A  cup  of  cut  raisins 
added  to  the  boiled  icing  is  good  on  this  cake. 

Mrs.  Louise  Eoff. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

RUM  FILLING 

Six  eggs;  1  cup  saigar;  three-fourths  cup  of 
sifted  chocolate  in  three-fourths  cup  of  flour;  one 
and  a  half  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Beat  sugar 
and  yolks  until  very  light ;  add  chocolate  and  flour 
mixed,  baking  powder  and  vanilla  flavoring  and 
whites  of  eggs. 

Rum  Filling 

Boil  1  cup  milk  with  1  cup  of  chopped  wal- 
nuts; thicken  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  1 
teaspoon  cornstarch;  stir  until  done,  then  sweeten 
to  taste,  and  flavor  with  rum  or  brandy.    Let  cool. 

Mrs.  Leonard  Logan. 

BRANDY  NUT  CAKE 

Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  very  light ;  add  to 
this  one  coffee  cup  of  granulated  sugar;  add  one- 
half  cup  of  Bunkle  Bros,  powdered  chocolate  (un- 
sweetened) ;  1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla;  sift  three- 
fourths  of  a  cup  of  flour  with  a  teaspoonful  and  a 
half  of  Royal  baking  powder.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  stiff  and  add  alternately  the  flour  and 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Butter  three  layer  tins  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven. 

Filling 

One  cup  chopped  walnuts  boiled  in  one  cup  of 


ISoise  City  Nat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


COOK  BOOK 


125 


milk;  beat  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  three  teaspoons 
of  cornstarch,  and  add  to  the  milk  and  nuts,  and 
sweeten  to  taste;  cook  until  it  thickens,  then  add 
one-half  gill  of  brandy  and  set  aside  to  cool;  when 
cool  put  between  the  layers  and  cover  the  cake  with 
a  boiled  icing.  Winifred  0.  Deary. 

BROWN  NUT  CAKE. 

Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  4  eggs;  stir 
to  a  cream  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter  with 
one  and  one-quarter  cups  of  sugar;  sift  2  scant 
cups  of  flour  with  1  rounding  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing poAvder;  add  gradually  one-half  cup  of  milk 
and  a  little  of  the  flour  until  all  is  used ;  beat  well. 
Dissolve  two  ounces  of  (Baker's  or  Huyler's) 
unsweetened  chocolate  in  one-half  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Add  this  and  1  cup  of  chopped  walnuts 
folding  in  easily  the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  with 
1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  flavoring.  Bake  in  very 
moderate  oven  from  40  to  60  minutes. 

Delicate  Chocolate  Icing  for  Sauce. 

Two  cups  of  sugar ;  1  egg ;  one-half  cup  cream ; 
enough  chocolate  to  color  delicate  brown;  vanilla 
flavoring.  Mix  all  thoroughly  before  putting  on 
stove  to  cook.  Place  in  double  boiler  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Eemove  from 
fire — beat  well  and  spread  on  cake  while  warm. 
Sprinkle  one-half  cup  of  finely  chopped  nuts  on 
cake. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Agnew,  Jr. 

POEK  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  salt  fat  pork,  chopped  fine,  dis- 
solved in  1  pint  of  boiling  water;  3  cups  of  brown 


Why  don't  you  save?    Others  do.    Bank  of  Commerce. 


126 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


sugar;  1  cup  of  molasses;  1  pound  of  raisins  or 
more;  1  pound  of  currants  or  more;  1  teaspoon  of 
cloves ;  2  teaspoons  of  cinnamon ;  2  nutmegs ;  1  tea- 
spoon of  soda;  2  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  (or 
3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder)  ;  7  cups  of  flour. 
Bake  in  a  dripping  pan.   Improves  with  age. 

Mrs.  Geo.  E.  Paddock. 

ROCKY  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Use  maple  or  white  sugar  icing  or  chocolate; 
mix  chopped  raisins,  figs,  nuts  with  icing,  put  it  on 
irregularly  to  represent  mountains  and  valleys. 
Use  on  White  Cake. 

One  cup  butter ;  two  cups  sugar ;  one  cup  sweet 
milk;  three  cups  of  flour;  whites  of  five  eggs;  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder.    Mrs.  George  Wise. 

NUT  FILLING  FOR  LAYER  CAKE. 

One  cup  sour  cream;  1  cup  white  sugar.  Stir 
together  and  cook  slowly  ten  minutes,  then  add  1 
cup  of  English  walnuts,  chopped  fine.  After  it 
has  boiled  up  again,  add  the  well  beaten  white  of 
one  egg ;  beat  a  minute  or  two ;  put  in  a  cool  place 
to  cool;  then  spread  between  layers. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Haines. 


CARAMEL  CAKE  FILLING. 

Two  heaping  cups  of  brown  sugar;  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  cream;  vanilla  to 
taste.  Let  boil  until  it  becomes  thick,  then  stir 
until  nearly  cold.  Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart. 


CHOCOLATE  ICING. 
Melt  one  ounce  of  chocolate ;  dilute  it  with  two 


Be  sure  and  get  Con  Hesse's  catalogue. 


COOK  BOOK 


127 


tablespoonfuls  of  milk;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  and  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  butter;  stir  till 
smooth  and  spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  Samuel  H.  Hays. 

CARAMEL  ICING. 

One  cup  brown  sugar ;  one-half  cup  of  cream ; 
a  small  piece  of  butter;  cook  slowly  until  thick 
enough  to  spread  on  cake;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Pierce. 

MILK  ICING. 

One  cup  sugar;  5  tablespoons  milk;  heat  the 
milk  and  sugar  together,  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved ;  boil  gently  until  it  ropes  well ;  remove  from 
fire  and  beat  until  it  drops ;  put  on  cake  quickly. 

Mrs.  Pierce. 

BOILED  FROSTING. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar;  one-half  cup  hot 
water.  Boil  to  a  thick  syrup;  beat  the  white  of  1 
egg  to  a  stiff  froth ;  stir  syrup  into  egg,  beating 
until  cold.  Mrs.  E.  H.  Maberly. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

Boil  2  cups  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  cream  or 
milk  with  tAvo  squares  of  grated  unsweetened  choc- 
olate; add  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
Cook  until  it  thickens.  Take  from  fire  and  beat 
until  thick;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Johnson. 

COFFEE  FILLING. 
One-quarter  pound  sweet  butter,  (work  in  wa- 


Boise  City  Nat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


128 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


ter  to  take  out  salt  and  make  sweet)  ;  1  cup  of 
powdered  sugar;  cream  together  fine.  Yolks  of  2 
eggs;  cream  with  butter  and  sugar;  one-quarter 
cup  of  very  strong  boiling  coffee.  Beat  all  togeth- 
er till  smooth.  ,  Emily  Davis. 

ANGEL  FILLING. 

Put  a  light  layer  of  boiled  icing  on  both  sides 
of  a  layer  cake,  (white).  Then  just  before  serving 
spread  a  thick  layer  of  whipped  cream  between 
each  layer,  sweetened  and  flavored. 

Mrs.  L.  Logax. 

GERMAN  APPLE  CAKE. 

Two  eggs  beat  in  one-fourth  cup  melted  butter, 
1  small  cup  sugar.  1  cup  yeast.  Add  above  ingre- 
dients to  one  and  one-half  quarts  of  flour,  and  add 
enough  luke-warm  milk  to  make  a  dough  stiff 
enough  to  spread  with  a  spoon.  Butter  a  dripping 
pan  and  line  with  a  thin  layer  of  dough.  To  pre- 
vent the  dough  from  sticking  to  the  spoon  while 
spreading,  dip  the  spoon  in  milk  or  melted  butter. 
Pare  good  cooking  apples  and  cut  into  aarters  or 
eighths  according  to  the  size  of  the  apple.  Spread 
in  rows  on  the  cake  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to 
raise.  Before  baking  spread  small  lumps  of  but- 
ter over  the  cake  and  spread  brown  sugar  and  3 
or  I  tablespoonsful    of  melted  butter. 

Mrs.  Cohen. 

WHITE  POUXD  CAKE. 

Beat  to  a  cream  one  and  three-fourths  lbs.  but- 
ter with  2  lbs  of  powdered  loaf  sugar;  add  the 
whites  of  32  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  6  cups  of  flour, 
well  dried  and  sifted  as  many  as  three  or  four  times, 


Start  an  account  with  us — Bank  of  Commerce. 


COOK  BOOK 


129 


folding  in  the  eggs  and  flour  alternately,  using 
only  a  few  spoons  of  each  at  a  time.  Only  fresh 
eggs  and  the  best  of  flour  can  be  used  with  success 
in  this  cake  and  for  my  own  part  I  prefer  country 
butter  and  though  any  flavoring  can  be  used  I  pre- 
fer none  whatever.  I  also  put  the  cake  to  bake  in 
a  cold  oven,  making  the  fire  in  range  afterward, 
and  bake  very  slowly  for  about  five  hours.  * 

Mrs.  James  F.  Ailshie. 


Why  don't  you  save?    Others  do.    Bank  of  Commerce. 


130 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


..  FROZEN  DAINTIES 


"Oh!  for  a  lodge  in  a  garden  of  fruits; 
Oh!  for  an  iceberg  or  two  at  my  control." 

MAPLE  MOUSSE. 

Boil  in  a  double  boiler,  1  cup  of  maple  syrup 
aud  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten ;  cook  thick ; 
when  cold,  beat  into  it  one  quart  of  whipped  cream. 
Pack  into  ice,  mixed  with  salt,  and  let  stand  until 
frozen.   Do  not  turn  freezer.        Mrs.  Perky. 

PAEFAIT. 

Enough  for  10  people.  Make  a  boiled  icing  of 
two-thirds  cup  sugar;  one-third  cup  water  and  the 
whites  of  2  eggs.  When  cold  add  1  pint  of  cream, 
whipped  very  stiff;  pack  in  ice  and  salt,  equal 
parts,  four  hours.       Mrs.  John  T.  Morrison. 

RASPBERRY  SHERBET. 

Take  1  pint  of  raspberry  syrup;  one  quart  of 
white  wine;  1  pound  of  sugar;  the  juice  of  three 
oranges  and  lemons;  half  box  of  Knox's  gelatine. 
Mix  this  thoroughly  with  an  egg  beater,  and  then 
add  enough  water  to  fill  three-quarters  gallon 
freezer.    Freeze  quick  but  not  hard. 

Mrs.  L.  P.  Grumbaum. 


Boise  City  Xat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


COOK  BOOK 


131 


MINT  PUNCH. 

Boil  1  quart  water  and  one-half  pound  sugar  for 
five  minutes.  Remove  the  leaves  from  10  good 
sized  stalks  of  mint,  wash,  chop  fine,  pound  to  a 
pulp,  work  this  gradually  into  the  hot  syrup,  cool 
and  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  freeze.  Nice  to 
serve  with  lamb.  Mrs.  N.  M.  Perkins. 

MAPLE  BISQUE. 

Four  eggs;  1  pint  cream;  1  cup  maple  sugar. 
Cook  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  syrup  until  quite 
thick  and  beat  thoroughly  while  cooling.  Have 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  also  the  cream  Avhipped.  Stir 
all  together  and  pack  in  freezer  for  about  four 
hours.  S.  Belle  Chamberlain. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 

One  can  of  grated  pineapple;  1  lemon;  sugar 
to  taste.  Fill  freezer  a  little  over  three-quarters 
full  of  water  and  freeze.  When  nearly  frozen,  add 
the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  continue  to  freeze. 
This  will  make  two  quarts  of  sherbet. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM. 

Soak  one-third  box  gelatine  in  one-half  cup 
cold  water  5  minutes;  bring  to  a  boil  1  pint  juice 
of  canned  pineapple;  dissolve  gelatine  in  it  with 
three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar.  If  pineapple 
lacks  flavor,  add  lemon  juice.  Stir  this  until  it 
begins  to  cool,  then  beat  with  egg  beater  until 
stiff.  Add  1  pint  of  whipped  cream  and  set  in 
mold  or  dish  on  ice.  Mrs.  Fraser. 

SULTANA  ROLL. 
Line  a  mold  with  Philadelphia  ice  cream;  fill 


No  difference  what  you  deposit  try  the  Bank  of  Commerce. 


132 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


the  centre  with  a  layer  of  Charlotte  Russe  mixture 
and  a  layer  of  raisins,  which  have  been  soaked  in 
brandy;  then  more  Charlotte  mixture,  raisins,  etc. 
Pack  in  ice  and  salt.  When  ready  to  serve,  serve 
with  claret  sauce. 

Claret  Sauce. 

Boil  1  cup  sugar  and  one-third  cup  water 
seven  or  eight  minutes  and  add  one-third  cup  of 
claret.  Harriett  O'Connor. 

FRAPPE. 

Eight  dozen  lemons;  5  gallons  water;  1  can 
pineapple:  11  pounds  sugar:  freeze  a  little. 

Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart. 

CRANBERRY  FRAPPE. 

Boil  1  quart  of  cranberries  in  1  pint  of  water 
for  5  or  6  minutes ;  strain  through  a  coarse  cheese 
cloth;  add  1  pint  of  sugar:  stir  and  boil  until 
sugar  is  dissolved.  When  cold,  add  the  strained 
juice  of  2  lemons.    Freeze.    Serve  with  turkey. 

Mrs.  Twiggs. 

LEMON  ICE. 

One  quart  hot  water;  2  pounds  sugar;  rind  of 
one-half  of  a  lemon,  to  steep  in  the  hot  syrup  till 
it  is  sufficiently  flavored.  Then  add  the  juice  of  4 
large  lemons,  and  two  oranges;  add  1  pint  of  cold 
water;  strain  before  freezing.  When  about  half 
frozen,  stir  in  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Richards. 

MOUSSE. 

Two  c-ups  sugar:  2  cups  water,  boil;  Avhen  cold. 


Joy's  Vanilla  and  Lemon  Extracts  are  absolutely  pure — 


COOK  BOOK 


133 


add  1  quart  apricots,  rubbed  through  a  sieve; 
the  juice  of  2  lemons;  pulp  of  3  oranges;  pack  in 
ice  and  salt  four  hours.  Mrs.  John  T.  Morrison. 

NEAPOLITAN  ICE  CREAM. 

One  quart  cream;  1  and  one-half  cups  milk; 
one-third  box  gelatine;  1  heaping  tablespoon  flour; 
2  eggs;  1  and  one-half  cups  sugar.  Heat  the  milk, 
and  pour  upon  the  well  beaten  yolks  and  sugar; 
add  the  flour,  which  has  been  stirred  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  water;  cook  to  a  thick  custard;  strain 
and  cool;  then  mix  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth,  the  whipped  cream,  and  dis- 
solved gelatine.  To  this  add  crushed  peaches, 
strawberries,  (or  any  desirable  fruit),  until  fruit 
predominates,  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Richardson. 

WHITE  VELVET  SHERBET. 

Three  pints  of  sweet  milk;  3  large  lemons;  3 
cups  of  sugar;  1  can  grated  pineapple,  or  any  other 
kind  of  fruit, 

(1)  .  Add  lemon  juice  to  milk,  put  in  sugar 
and  stir  until  dissolved. 

(2)  .  Strain  through  fine  sieve,  to  take  out 
curdle. 

(3)  .    Add  fruit  and  freeze  the  usual  way. 

Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen. 

COFFEE  SAUCE  FOR  ICE  CREAM. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  one-quarter  cup 
of  sugar;  add  one-half  cup  of  freshly  made  black 
coffee.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  it  thickens. 
When  cold  add  1  cup  of  Avhipped  cream.  Serve 


some  kinds  are  not. 


134 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


the  ice  cream  in  glasses  and  heap  the  sauce  on  the 
top. 

MILK  SHEKBET. 

One  quart  of  cream;  1  and  one-half  cupfuls 
of  sugar;  juice  of  3  lemons;  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  3  oranges;  1  can  of  shredded  pineapple.  Freeze 
milk  and  sugar  about  half,  then  add  fruit  juice 
and  finish.  Mrs.  Frank  Nourse. 

FKOZEN  PEACHES. 

Two  dozen  large  peaches;  2  coffee  cups  of  sug- 
ar; 1  pint  of  water  and  the  beaten  whites  of  3 
eggs.  Break  the  peaches  and  stir  all  the  ingredi- 
ents together.   Freeze  the  whole  into  form. 

Miss  Tage. 


E.  L.  Lason,  successor  to  John  Ennis  Co.    Use  Snow  Bios- 


COOK  BOOK  135 


BREAD,  ROLLS,  Etc. 


Bread  is  the  staff  of  life,  the  joy  of  the  husband  and  the 
Pride  of  the  wife." 

WHITE  BREAD. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar;  1  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Scald  with  boil- 
ing hot  potato  water  and  add  2  tablespoons  finely 
mashed  potatoes.  Add  sufficient  water  to  make  a 
quart  in  all  and  let  cool.  Dissolve  one  cake  of 
yeast  foam  in  half  a  cup  of  luke  warm  water,  and 
add  to  the  mixture  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Beat  thoroughly  and  let  rise  in  warm  place  over 
night.  In  the  morning  add  a  half  cup  of  lard  and 
sufficient  flour  to  make  into  dough  and  knead  till 
it  will  not  stick  to  the  hands.  Let  rise  and  make 
into  loaves.  When  double  the  original  size,  bake 
one  hour. 

WHITE  BREAD. 

Boil  3  medium  sized  potatoes  in  enough  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  well.  Salt  slightly;  when  done, 
drain  and  put  potatoes  through  a  ricer;  soak  1 
cake  of  fresh  compressed  yeast  in  one-half  cup  of 
luke  warm  water  with  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  for 
about  10  minutes  or  until  soft  and  foaming.  Take 
2  quarts  of  warm  water;  one-half  cup  sugar  and  1 
tablespoon  (heaping)  of  salt;  add  potato  and  pota- 
to water  and  the  yeast.  Cover  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  over  night.    Next  morning  stir  this  yeast 


som  Flour. 


136 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


until  light  and  foaming  and  use  flour  enough  to 
make  a  sponge,  not  too  thin.  Let  stand  until  light. 
Then  add  2  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  or  the  same 
amount  of  butter  and  add  flour  enough  to  handle 
and  knead  20  minutes;  let  stand  until  light;  shape 
into  loaves;  oil  granite  bread  pans  and  bake  the 
loaves  separately  1  hour. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer. 

SALT  RISING  BREAD. 

Four  tablespoons  milk ;  2  tablespoons  corn 
meal ;  pinch  of  salt  and  sugar ;  heat  milk  to  boiling 
point ;  pour  over  dry  ingredients,  which  have  been 
placed  in  heated  pint  jar.  Keep  in  warm  place  over 
night — must  be  kept  at  even  temperature.  In  the 
morning  about  7  o'clock,  take  1  teaspoon  sugar;  1 
teaspoon  salt;  one-third  teaspoon  soda;  scald  with 
one  pint  hot  water;  cool  this  mixture  with  scant 
pint  of  cold  water.  Add  flour  to  make  batter  a 
little  thicker  than  for  hot  cakes ;  then  add  mixture, 
which  has  risen  over  night.  Beat  a  few  minutes 
and  put  in  ten-pound  lard  bucket  with  tight  cover 
Set  in  kettle  of  hot  water  to  rise ;  this  water  should 
be  as  hot  as  the  hand  will  bear;  keep  in  very 
warm  place,  free  from  draughts.  When  risen  to 
double  original  quantity,  add  warmed  flour  and 
make  out  into  loaves.    Let  rise  and  bake. 

Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen. 

BROWN  NUT  BREAD. ' 

One  cup  of  white  flour;  2  cups  graham  flour; 
1  teaspoon  salt;  1  rounding  teaspoon  soda;  1  and 
one-half  cups  sour  or  sweet  milk;  one-half  cup  mo- 
lasses; 1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  or  one-half  cup  rai 
sins;  bake  45  minutes.     Mrs.  James  A.  Hays. 


Hoosier  Cabinets,  Compact,  Convenient, 


COOK  BOOK  137 


STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 

One  cup  of  white  flour ;  2  cups  of  graham  flour ; 
2  cups  of  Indian  meal;  1  teaspoon  of  soda;  1  cup 
of  molasses;  3  and  one-half  cups  of  milk;  a  little 
salt.  Beat  well  and  steam  for  four  hours.  This  is 
for  sour  milk ;  when  sweet  milk  is  used,  use  baking 
powder  in  place  of  soda.        Lucy  E.  Nourse. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 

To  2  and  one-half  cups  of  sour  milk  add  one- 
half  cup  of  molasses;  stir  into  this  2  cups  of  corn 
meal  and  1  cup  of  graham  flour;  1  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda ;  measure  with 
coffee  cup.  Boil  or  steam  3  hours  in  covered  buck- 
et or  pan  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Mrs.  H.  N.  Coffin. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

One  pint  of  corn  meal ;  1  pint  of  graham  flour ; 
1  teaspoonf ul  of  soda ;  1  teaspoonf ul  of  salt ;  1  pint 
of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk;  1  cup  of  molasses. 
Mix  the  meal  and  flour,  sift  soda  and  salt  into 
the  flour  and  mix  thoroughly;  put  the  sour  milk 
and  molasses  together  and  add  to  the  dry  ingredi- 
ents, beating  well.  If  the  mixture  is  not  sufficiently 
moist  to  pour,  add  a  little  warm  water.  Pour  into 
a  well  buttered  mold  and  steam  4  hours.  Remove 
the  cover  and  set  in  the  oven  ten  minutes  to  dry  the 
crust.  .Mrs.  Tipton. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  graham  flour;  1  and 
one-half  cups  of  corn  meal;  1  cup  bread  crumbs 
that  have  been  soaked  over  night  in  water;  2  cups 
of  milk;  1  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses;  a  little 


Sanitary.    ALLEN-WRIGHT  FURNITURE  CO.  LTD. 


138  COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


salt;  1  teaspoon  soda;  put  in  a  can  and  leave  in 
oven  until  brown  on  top,  then  boil  five  hours. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Beck. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

Two  and  one-quarter  cups  of  corn  meal ;  2  and 
one-quarter  cups  of  wheat  flour;  1  and  one-half 
cups  of  graham  flour;  three-quarters  cup  molasses; 
1  and  one-half  cup  sour  milk;  2  and  one-quarter 
cups  sweet  milk;  1  and  one-half  teaspoons  soda; 
1  and  one-half  teaspoons  salt.    Steam  5  or  6  hours. 

Mrs.  Walter  Keeffe. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  corn  meal;  1  and 
one-third  cups  graham  or  whole  wheat  flour;  1 
cup  of  molasses;  1  pint  sour  milk;  1  small  cup  of 
hot  water;  2  level  teaspoons  soda.  Dissolve  soda 
in  hot  water;  mix  with  other  ingredients,  stirring 
thoroughly;  pour  into  well  greased  round  tins, 
(empty  baking  powder  cans  are  excellent)  ;  and 
fill  only  two-thirds  full.  Steam  two  and  one-half 
hours.  Mrs.  Savidge. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 

One  cup  sour  cream;  1  egg;  1  small  teaspoon 
soda;  one-half  teaspoon  salt;  2  tablespoons  sugar; 
one-half  cup  white  flour;  1  cup  corn  meal.  Beat 
egg  and  sugar  together.  Dissolve  soda  in  cream; 
add  salt  and  beat  thoroughly.  Add  flour  and  meal 
gradually.  Turn  into  buttered  pan  and  bake  one- 
half  hour. 

CORN  BREAD. 
Two  tablespoons  sugar;  1  tablespoon  butter; 


Boise  Book  &  Music  Co.,  719  Main  St. 


COOK  BOOK 


139 


2  eggs;  stir  all  together;  add  1  cup  sweet  milk;  3 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  and  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  corn  meal;  flour  to  make  quite  stiff. 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Shaw. 

CORN  BREAD. 

Two  cupfuls  of  corn  meal;  1  and  one-half 
cupfuls  of  flour;  one-half  cupful  of  sugar;  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  2  eggs;  3  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder,  if  sweet  milk  is  used;  if  sour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda;  1  and  two-third  cupfuls  of 
milk;  1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  or  drippings, 
melted.  Mix  the  flour,  meal,  salt  and  baking  powder 
together  thoroughly.  Beat  together  the  eggs  and 
sugar;  add  butter,  then  the  flour  mixture;  and 
lastly  mix  in  quickly  the  milk  and  turn  into  a  flat 
pan  to  bake.  If  sour  milk  and  soda  are  used,  dis- 
solve the  soda  iu  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  hot  water. 

Mrs.  Samuel  H.  Hays. 

CORN  BREAD 

One  and  one-half  cups  corn  meal ;  2  cups  white 
flour,  (sifted)  ;  3  eggs;  2  cups  milk;  1  tablespoon 
lard ;  2  tablespoons  sugar ;  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der; 1  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  all  together,  and  beat 
well.    Bake  for  half  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Jas.  H.  Hawley. 

SPIDER  CORN  CAKE. 

Three-quarters  cup  of  meal;  flour  to  fill  the 
cup;  1  tablespoonful  sugar;  one-half  teaspoonful 
salt;  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  (scant)  ;  1  egg;  1 
cup  sweet  milk;  one-half  cup  sour  milk;  1  table- 
spoonful butter;  mix  the  meal,  flour,  sugar,  salt 
and  soda.   Beat  the  egg ;  add  half  of  the  sweet  milk, 


Lemps — Coats-Suits-Skirts  for  well  Dressed  Women. 


140  COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


and  all  the  sour  milk ;  stir  this  into  the  dry  mix- 
ture. Melt  the  butter  in  a  hot  spider  or  shallow 
round  pan  and  pour  the  mixture  into  it.  Pour  the 
other  half  cup  of  sweet  milk  over  the  top,  but  do 
not  stir  it  in.  Bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
,  Mrs.  J.  T.  Laughlin. 

IRISH  BISCUITS. 

Boil  2  large  potatoes;  mash  thoroughly;  stir 
into  the  warm  potato  one  teacup  of  butter  and 
lard  mixed,  a  little  salt  and  two  well  beaten  eggs ; 
add  a  cup  of  milk,  in  which  has  been  dissolved  1 
cake  of  compressed  yeast  and  a  tablespoon  of  sugar ; 
add  1  quart  of  sifted  flour ;  set  in  a  warm  place  till 
thoroughly  light;  then  add  about  1  quart  sifted 
flour  so  it  will  be  a  soft  dough;  set  away  for  a  sec- 
ond rising.  When  you  think  it  is  light  enough, 
turn  out  on  bread  board  with  just  flour  enough  to 
handle;  roll  out  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Davis. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

One  egg;  2  tablespoons  of  sugar;  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt ;  one  cup  milk ;  2  cups  of  sifted  graham 
flour;  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  2  rounding  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.    This  makes  twelve  gems. 

Mrs.  J.  K.  Loree. 

GRAHAM  OR  WHOLE  WHEAT  GEMS. 

To  1  pint  of  rich  and  moderately  sour  butter- 
milk, add  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  1  of  sugar. 
Beat  1  or  2  eggs;  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
enough  graham  or  whole  Avheat  flour  to  make  a 
reasonably  thick  mixture.    Lastly,  add  1  teaspoon- 


Boise  City  Xat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


COOK  BOOK 


141 


ful 'soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Stand  aside  a 
few  minutes  before  baking- — and  have  ready  a  rath- 
er quick  oven.  Mrs.  J.  D.  Agnew. 

BAKING  POWDER  TEA  ROLLS. 

Sift  1  quart  of  flour  with  3  rounding  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  ; 
work  a  lump  of  butter  through  the  flour;  add  near- 
ly 1  pint  of  sweet  milk;  stir  with  a  spoon — very 
lightly — handling  as  little  as  possible.  Roll  into 
a  thin  sheet — and  pour  melted  butter  over  top  sur 
face.  Cut  with  good  sized  biscuit  cutter,  and  fold 
over  once — placing  same  in  baking  pan  and  bake 
in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Agnew. 
PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

Two  cups  scalded  milk;  3  tablespoons  butter; 

2  tablespoons  sugar;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  yeast-cake, 
dissolved  in  one-quarter  cup  of  hike  warm  water; 
about  6  cups  flour.  Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to 
milk;  when  hike  warm,  add  dissolved  yeast  and 

3  cups  flour.  Beat  well,  cover  and  let  rise  until 
light.  Beat  again ;  add  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough, 
and  knead.  Let  rise  until  double  in  bulk;  toss 
on  floured  board;  pat  and  roll  out  about  one-third 
of  an  inch  thick;  cut  with  floured  biscuit  cutter; 
crease  through  the  center  of  each  roll  with  a  floured 
knifehandle ;  brush  one-half  of  each  piece  with  melt- 
ed butter;  fold  and  press  together.  Place  in  a 
greased  pan,  one  inch  apart;  cover;  set  in  a  Avarm 
place  until  double  in  bulk.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
twelve  to  fifteen  minutes.  Miss  Long. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS  MADE  WITH  BAK- 
ING POWDER, 
Two  cups  of  flour;  1  and  one-half  teasponfuls 


Con  Hesse,  headquarters  for  silverware  and  cut  glass. 


142 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


baking  powder;  2  teaspoonfuls  sugar;  one-half 
teaspoonful  salt;  two-thirds  cup  of  milk;  mix  as 
for  baking  powder  biscuits;  roll  to  one-third  of  an 
inch  thick.  Cut  with  a  round  or  oval  cutter  and 
crease  in  center  with  the  handle  of  case  knife,  first 
dipped  in  flour ;  brush  half  of  the  round  with  melted 
butter  and  fold  over;  put  in  a  pan  one-half  inch 
apart  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  15  minutes. 

Mary  A.  Holliday. 

BEATEN  BISCUITS. 

One  quart  flour;  1  teaspoonful  salt;  mix  and 
sift;  2  eggs;  weight  of  2  eggs  in  lard;  1  teacup  of 
milk.  Mix  lard  in  flour,  as  in  pastry;  then  break 
eggs  and  pour  milk  in  dough  and  gradually  in- 
corporate till  a  mass  that  can  be  handled.  Do  not 
work  like  bread.  Beat  with  elastic  stroke  about 
20  minutes  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  This  makes 
about  15  biscuits.  Mrs.  E.  S.  Hinks. 

SOUTHERN  AUNTIE'S  BISCUITS. 

Make  a  biscuit  dough;  roll  to  one-half  an  inch 
in  thickness;  cut  and  roll  in  melted  butter.  Make 
a  hash  of  the  remains  of  turkey  or  chicken,  onion 
and  potatoes  and  moisten  with  gravy;  put  between 
two  biscuits  one-half  inch  of  hash  and  bake  in  oven. 

Mrs.  George  Wise. 

MUFFINS. 

One  cup  milk;  1  tablespoon  sugar;  pinch  of 
salt;  1  big  tablespoon  melted  butter;  1  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder;  enough  flour  to  make  a  bat- 
ter; drop  into  well  greased  gem  pans.  Bake  in 
quick  oven.  Mrs.  Willard  F.  White. 


If  yon  need  some  silverware  see  Con  Hesse,  the  Jeweler. 


COOK  BOOK 


143 


CEEAM  MUFFINS. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately  of  4 
eggs;  mix  them  and  add  a  half  pint  of  cream;  a 
lump  of  melted  butter,  the  size  of  an  English  wal- 
nut. Then  mix  in  slowly,  one  pint  of  flour,  and 
bake  quickly,  without  further  beating. 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Hinks. 

SOUR  MILK  MUFFINS. 

Stir  1  egg  into  1  pint  of  sour  milk;  melt  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  teasponful  of  soda  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  hot  water,  salt,  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  thick  batter;  beat  well;  drop  in 
moderately  hot  muffin  tins,  filling  them  half  full. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Johnson. 

MUFFINS. 

One  pint  of  SAveet  milk;  3  eggs,  (beaten  sep- 
arately) ;  1  tablespoon  butter;  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  a  pinch  of  salt;  3  cups  of  flour,  or  enough 
to  make  a  medium  batter.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  L.  Logan. 

STICKS. 

Four  cups  of  flour;  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar; 
one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  butter;  1  cup  of  boiled 
milk;  the  white  of  1  egg;  one-quarter  of  a  cake 
of  compressed  yeast  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Dissolve  the  butter  in  the  milk,  which  have 
warm;  beat  the  white  of  egg  to  a  stiff  froth;  dis- 
solve the  yeast  in  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water; 
add  all  the  ingredients  to  the  flour  and  knead 
well,  and  set  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning 
make  into  balls  the  size  of  an  egg;  roll  each  of 


If  you  Want  spices  that  you  know  are  pure  go  to  Joy's. 


144 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


these  into  a  stick  about  a  foot  long;  place  the 
sticks  in  long  pans,  about  2  inches  apart  ;  let  them 
rise  a  half  hour  in  a  cool  place  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Sticks  should  be  quite  dry  and 
crisp,  and  they  can  not  be  if  baked  rapidly. 

Mrs.  Edwin  Hinks. 

PANCAKES. 

One  pint  flour;  2  eggs;  1  teaspoonful  baking- 
powder;  1  teaspoonful  salt;  2  cups  milk.  Make  a 
thin  batter  with  the  above  ingredients.  Rub  a 
scant  teaspoonful  of  cottolene  or  lard  over  the  bot- 
tom of  a  hot  frying  pan;  pour  in  a  large  ladleful 
of  batter,  and  fry  quickly.    Serve  with  honey. 

Mrs.  S.  M.  Blandford. 

HOT  CAKES. 

Two  cups  of  sour  milk;  1  teaspoonful  soda, 
stirred  in  milk;  3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
separately;  stir  the  yolks  into  the  milk  and  soda; 
then  add  flour  enough  to  make  thin  batter.  Beat 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  add  last. 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Hamaker. 

FRENCH  PAN  CAKES. 

Three  eggs,  beaten  separately;  1  cup  of  milk; 
one-half  teaspoon  salt;  1  teaspoon  sugar;  one-half 
cup  flour;  one-half  tablespoon  salad  oil;  beat  yolks 
and  add  milk  and  sugar ;  pour  one-half  of  this  mix- 
ture over  flour  and  stir  smooth.  Add  remainder 
of  milk  and  beat  well,  then  add  the  oil.  Heat  fry- 
ing pan ;  pour  in  enough  to  cover ;  brown,  turn  and 
brown.  Spread  with  butter  and  sugar  and  roll 
up;  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  L.  Logan. 


We  pay  4  per  cent  interest  on  deposits — Bank  of  Commerce. 


COOK  BOOK 


145 


MUSH  BISCUITS. 

Make  corn  meal  mush  very  thick;  add  1  large 
tablespoon  of  lard;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  tablespoon 
sugar;  mix  up  with  flour;  when  cool,  add  one-half 
cup  of  yeast;  let  rise  over  night;  roll  out  for  break- 
fast. Mrs.  L.  Logan. 

BREAD  STICKS. 

One-half  cup  scalded  milk;  one-quarter  cup 
butter ;  one  and  one-half  rounding  tablespoons 
sugar;  white  of  1  egg;  3  and  three-quarters  cups  of 
flour;  one-half  teaspoon  salt;  1  yeast  cake;  one- 
quarter  cup  luke  warm  water.  Add  butter,  sugar 
and  salt  to  scalded  milk.  When  lukewarm  add 
the  dissolved  yeast  cake,  white  of  egg  well  beaten, 
and  flour.  Knead ;  let  rise ;  shape,  and  let  rise  again 
Start  baking  in  hot  oven,  reducing  heat,  so  that 
sticks  may  be  dry  and  crisp.  To  shape  sticks: 
First  shape  as  small  biscuit;  roll  on  board,  where 
there  is  little,  if  any,  flour.  With  hands,  roll  eight 
inches  in  length.  Keep  of  uniform  size  and  round- 
ed ends,  which  may  be  done  by  bringing  fingers 
close  to  but  not  over  the  ends  of  the  stick.  When 
they  are  to  be  served  with  soup,  they  should 
be  about  the  thickness  of  a  lead  pencil,  and  5 
inches  long;  tie  3  together  for  each  person.  When 
they  are  to  be  served  as  bread,  they  should  be  1 
inch  in  diameter.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Haines. 

CREAM  SCONES. 

Two  cups  of  flour;  one-quarter  cup  of  butter; 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder;  2  eggs;  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt;  one-half  cup  cream.  Mix  as  for  bak- 
ing powder  biscuits,  adding  the  beaten  eggs  with 
the  cream.    Cut  in  diamond  shape  and  fry  on  a 


Boise  City  Nat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


146 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


well  greased  griddle.    Serve  with  chocolate. 

Miss  O'Connor. 

WAFFLES. 

Three  eggs,  separated ;  2  cups  of  milk ;  one  and 
one-half  pints  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 
a  little  melted  butter  and  salt. 

RICE  WAFFLES. 

One  cup  of  boiled  rice ;  1  pint  of  milk ;  3  eggs, 
beaten  very  light;  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
melted;  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda;  1  teaspoon  of 
cream  of  tartar.  Stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a 
thin  batter.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Johnson. 


Boise  City  Nat'I  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


COOK  BOOK 


147 


JELLIES,  PRESERVES  and  PICKLES. 


"  If  eaten  stintingly,  'tis  honey  to  the  taste;  but  much  doth  cause 
A  loathing  and  an  inward  pain  too  bitter  e'en  for  contemplation." 

JELLIES. 

Wash  fruit;  remove  stems  and  imperfections; 
cut  large  fruit  in  pieces.  With  watery  fruit,  such 
as  grapes  and  currants,  use  very  little  water;  with 
apples  and  quinces  use  enough  water  to  cover  them. 
Cook  fruit  until  the  juice  flows.  Remove  from 
fire  and  strain.  Measure  juice  and  boil  twenty 
minutes,  then  add  equal  quantity  of  heated  sugar. 
Boil  five  minutes  or  until  jelly  stiffens,  when  tried 
on  a  plate.  Skim  and  turn  into  sterilized  glasses 
and  set  aside  to  harden.  Cover  with  melted  par- 
affine.    Keep  jellies  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

Miss  Anna  Long. 

CANNING  FRUIT. 

Two  cups  of  water;  1  pound  sugar  and  three 
pounds  peaches.  Sterilize  jars ;  prepare  the  syrup ; 
boil  ten  minutes. 

Pare  fruit;  drop  into  cold  water.  Cut  peach- 
es into  halves ;  stone  them  and  put  fruit  with  a  few 
stones,  into  the  syrup.  Cook  until  when  tried  with 
a  knitting-needle,  it  is  found  to  be  soft.  Pears, 


Order  electric  wiring  at  Mickle's. 


148 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


cherries,  apples  and  plums  may  be  canned  like 
peaches.  Hard  fruits  like  pineapples  and  quinces, 
are  cooked  in  boiling  water,  or  steamed  till  nearly 
tender;  then  put  into  syrup  to  finish  cooking. 

Miss  Long. 

PINEAPPLE  JELLY. 

One  peck  of  apples;  2  pounds  of  grated  pine- 
apple. Wash  and  cut  the  apples,  removing  all 
blemishes;  cover  with  water  and  cook  until  soft. 
To  one  pint  of  juice,  add  one  pound  of  sugar  and 
boil  as  you  would  any  jelly. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Wash  and  run  through  hands,  picking  out  the 
leaves,  etc.  Weigh  fruit.  Put  pint  of  water  into 
preserving  kettle,  and  add  a  boAvl  or  two  of  cur- 
rants, mashing  and  pressing  until  juice  covers  bot- 
tom of  kettle;  then  add  the  remainder  of  currants. 
Let  come  to  a  boil  and  boil  twenty  minutes,  stir- 
ring and  pressing  from  time  to  time. 

Pour  into  three  cornered  bag,  (scalded),  and 
let  it  drip  all  night,  but  do  not  squeeze.  In  the 
morning  put  juice  on  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and 
boil  for  three  or  four  minutes;  add  half  as  many 
pounds  of  sugar  as  there  were  pounds  of  fruit. 

As  soon  as  sugar  is  dissolved,  the  jelly  is  done. 
Do  not  let  it  boil,  as  the  boiling  was  done  before 
the  sugar  was  added.  Mrs.  K.  I.  Perky. 

EED  RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

Fifteen  boxes  of  berries  and  3  of  red  currants. 
Clean  fruit  and  cover  with  cold  water;  boil  until 
all  the  juice  has  been  extracted  from  fruit;  drain 


Our  Dining  Room  Furniture  makes  food  taste 


COOK  BOOK 


149 


in  a  cheesecloth  bag.  Boil  the  juice  steadily  20 
minutes.  To  1  pint  of  juice  add  1  pint  of  sugar 
that  has  been  heated  well  in  the  oven.  Boil  from 
3  to  5  minutes.  This  makes  a  beautiful  clear  jelly 
of  delicious  flavor.        Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer. 

GRAPE  JAM. 

Kemove  the  grapes  from  the  stems ;  wash  them 
and  press  the  pulp  from  the  skins.  Boil  the  pulp 
until  it  will  separate  from  the  seeds.  Bub  through 
a  sieve;  add  the  skins  to  the  pulp  and  boil  with 
an  equal  weight  of  sugar  for  15  minutes.  Put 
into  jars  and  when  cool  cover  with  paper,  wet  in 
brandy.  Mrs.  Ridenbaugh. 

GINGER  PEARS. 

Eight  pounds  of  pears,  weighed  after  being 
cut  into  small,  dainty  pieces;  6  pounds  of  white 
sugar;  one-quarter  pound  of  ginger  root;  juice  of 
6  lemons.  Mix  all  and  simmer  3  hours  or  until 
a  rich  golden  color  and  the  syrup  to  a  rich  con- 
sistency. Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer. 

RHUBARB  MARMALADE. 

Eight  pounds  of  rhubarb,  cut  fine ;  6  pounds  of 
granulated  sugar;  cook  20  minutes  with  a  little 
water,  then  add  the  following:  Five  lemons,  juice 
and  rind,  (rind  chopped  fine)  ;  one-half  pound 
blanched  almonds,  chopped  fine;  one-half  wine 
glass  Jamaica  ginger;  1  orange,  juice  and  rind; 
cook  all  together  30  minutes,  or  until  quite  thick. 

Mrs.  Leonard  Logan. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE, 
Six  oranges;  4  lemons,  juice  alone;  slice  the 


better.    ALLEN-WRIGHT  FURNITURE  CO.  LTD. 


150 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


oranges  very  thin;  cover  with  2  quarts  of  cold 
water  and  let  stand  over  night.  Measure  and  place 
on  stove;  cook  until  rinds  are  thoroughly  tender; 
then  add  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  as  much  gran- 
ulated sugar  as  there  was  orange  and  water.  Cook 
until  the  consistency  of  thin  jelly,  or  until  there 
is  a  thin  scum  on  syrup  when  cooled  in  a  small 
dish.  It  thickens  with  age,  so  great  care  should 
be  taken  not  to  boil  too  long. 

Abigail  L.  Robb. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Seven  oranges;  2  lemons;  quarter,  squeeze 
juice  and  slice  thin;  put  all  in  a  stone  jar;  add 
9  pints  of  water,  and  leave  over  night.  In  the 
morning  boil  2  hours;  then  put  in  7  pounds  of 
granulated  sugar;  cook  until  it  forms  a  jelly  when 
cool.   25  glasses.  Mrs.  Leonard  Logan. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Cut  off  the  thick  ends,  halve  and  quarter 
lengthwise  and  then  slice  very  thin  crosswise,  5 
navel  oranges  and  1  lemon;  remove  all  seeds  and 
then  to  every  pound  of  fruit  add  3  pints  of  cold 
water.  Let  this  stand  24  hours;  then  boil  45  min- 
utes and  let  stand  another  24  hours.  Weigh  again 
and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  and  juice,  add  1 
pound  of  sugar.  When  boiling,  add  the  juice  of  2 
more  lemons  and  let  boil  until  it  jellies.  Do  not 
drain  off  any  of  the  first  Avater,  but  skim  carefully 
both  times  fruit  is  boiled.  This  will  make  two 
dozen  glasses.  Mrs.  C.  C.  Anderson. 

CITRON  PRESERVES. 
Cut  citron  in  any  desired  shape  and  steam 


Good  Kitchen  Furniture  lightens  your 


COOK  BOOK 


151 


until  tender;  try  with  a  straw.  To  7  pounds  of 
fruit,  add  7  pounds  of  sugar;  2  ounces  of  ginger, 
(whole)  ;  and  2  lemons,  sliced  very  thin.  Cook  all 
until  citron  looks  transparent.  If  syrup  is  too 
thin,  cook  until  richer  and  pour  over  fruit  and  put 
away.  Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer. 

SMALL    YELLOW    TOMATOES  PRESRVED. 

Scald  tomatoes  and  remove  skins.  To  seven 
pounds  of  fruit,  take  seven  pounds  of  sugar  and 
let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  strain  off 
the  juice  and  boil  until  thick.  Add  the  tomatoes. 
Peel  2  lemons  and  add  them  sliced  fine;  2  or  3 
pieces  of  ginger  root  and  boil  slowly  until  done. 
Skim  carefully  all  the  scum  that  rises. 

CHIPPED  PEARS. 

Eight  pounds  of  pears  cut  into  small  pieces; 
6  pounds  of  sugar;  one-half  dozen  lemons,  rind  of 
2  and  pulp  of  6;  2  ounces  of  ginger  root;  1  cup 
water;  boil  until  red.    Mrs.  John  T.  Morrison. 

SPICED  CHERRIES. 

Put  cherries  through  meat  chopper;  cook  with 
equal  weight,  sugar  and  cherries.  When  almost 
done,  or  as  thick  as  jam,  add  1  cup  of  vinegar  to 
each  gallon  and  spices  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Alfred  Eoff. 

SWEET  PICKLED  CHERRIES. 

Six  pounds  of  fruit;  3  pounds  of  sugar; 
choose  for  pickling,  the  short  stemmed  cherries,  or 
the  Morello,  sweet  cherries  will  not  do.  Look  over 
the  fruit  carefully  and  remove  wormy  cherries,  but 


work.    ALLEN-WRIGHT  FURNITURE  CO.  LTD. 


152 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


do  not  stem  or  stone  fruit.  Cover  the  cherries  with 
water,  drain  it  from  them,  and  measure  it.  This 
measurement  will  be  the  quantity  of  vinegar  re- 
quired. Place  the  vinegar  and  sugar  together  in 
a  preserving  kettle,  and  when  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, set  the  vinegar  aside  to  cool.  Place  the 
cherries  in  glass  jars,  and  when  the  vinegar  is 
cold,  fill  the  jars  to  overflowing  with  it,  sealing 
tightly.  Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Chrisman. 

i.  PICKLED  CHERRIES. 

To  every  quart  of  cherries,  1  coffee  cup  claret 
wine,  or  pure  cider  vinegar;  one-half  cup  sugar; 
1  dozen  whole  cloves;  other  spices  as  you  like;  put 
vinegar  and  sugar  to  heat  with  spices ;  boil  5  min- 
utes; let  it  get  perfectly  cold;  strain  and  fill  jars 
three-quarters  full  with  cherries;  then  cover  with 
the  spiced  vinegar  and  see  that  jars  are  full,  ad- 
ding vinegar  if  necessary. 

SPICED  PRUNES  OR  PEACHES. 

Seven  pounds  of  prunes;  1  pint  of  vinegar; 
4  pounds  of  sugar;  2  tablespoons  of  cinnamon 
bark;  half  as  much  of  cloves  and  broken  nutmeg; 
simmer  spices  in  a  little  vinegar  and  water  for  half 
an  hour,  then  add  it  all  to  vinegar  and  sugar;  bring 
to  a  boil  and  add  prunes.  Prick  prunes  with  darn- 
ing needle.  Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart. 

PEAR  CONSERVE. 

Four  pounds  pears,  peeled  and  diced;  4 
pounds  sugar;  one-half  pound  of  crystalized  gin- 
ger; 2  lemons,  boiled  whole,  until  they  can  be 
pierced  with  a  fork;  chop  fine.    Mix  all  together 


E.  L.  Lason,  successor  to  John  Ennis  Co.    Use  Snow  Bios- 


COOK  BOOK 


153 


and  boil  2  hours,  slowly.  Put  in  jelly  glasses  and 
seal.  Mrs.  M.  D.  Lovell. 

SPICED  GOOSEBERRIES. 

Five  pounds  of  gooseberries;  4  pounds  of  sug- 
ar; 1  cup  of  vinegar;  1  teaspoon  cloves;  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon;  stem  the  berries;  add  sugar,  vinegar, 
and  spice;  stir  well;  set  on  back  of  stove  and  boil 
slowly  for  ten  minutes.  Mrs.  J oy. 

CONSERVE. 

Four  quarts  of  currant  juice;  2  pounds  of 
raisins,  seeded ;  2  pounds  of  English  walnut  meats, 
chopped;  1  pound  of  English  currants;  4  pounds 
of  sugar;  the  rind  of  2  oranges,  cut  in  tiny  strips. 
Boil  20  minutes.  Mrs.  Joy. 

PEACH  PICKLES. 

Take  15  pounds  of  peeled  peaches  to  7  pounds 
of  sugar.  Boil  the  peaches  in  water  20  minutes. 
Lay  on  platters,  or  sieve,  which  is  better,  to  drain 
and  cool.  Make  a  syrup  of  7  pounds  of  sugar ; 
3  pints  vinegar ;  1  pint  water.  Boil  thoroughly  and 
skim.  Drop  enough  peaches  in  syrup  for  one  or 
two  jars  at  a  time.  Boil  five  minutes;  put  in  jars 
with  cinnamon  and  cloves.  After  all  are  boiled, 
boil  the  syrup  quite  thick,  pour  over  and  seal. 

Catherine  Moore. 

CANDIED  ORANGE  PEEL. 

Take  the  skin  of  one-half  dozen  oranges ;  quar- 
ter and  cut  in  narrow  strips;  put  in  a  porcelain 
pan  with  enough  salted  Avater  to  cover.  Let  boil 
from  5  to  10  minutes;  drain;  cover  again  with 


som  Flour. 


154 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


boiling  water,  Avithout  salt;  let  boil  same  time; 
drain  again ;  put  in  a  third  Avater,  which  is  boiling ; 
after  this  remains  about  ten  minutes,  drain  the 
oranges  Avell.  Make  a  thick  syrup  of  3  cups  of 
granulated  sugar,  and  enough  Avater  to  dissolve  it. 
When  it  hairs  and  begins  to  sugar,  throw  in  peels 
and  let  boil  until  the  syrup  returns  to  sugar.  Lay 
separate  on  a  platter,  Avhich  is  dusted  with  powd- 
ered sugar,  to  cool.     Mrs.  Samuel  H.  Hays. 

CUKRANT  OR  CHERRY  CONSERVE. 

Five  pounds  of  currants  or  cherries;  5  pounds 
of  sugar;  2  pounds  of  raisins;  the  juice  of  5  orang- 
*  es;  rind  of  3  oranges.   Boil  20  minutes.   H.  J.  A. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI. 

One  cup  of  alcohol ;  1  cup  fruit ;  a  cup  of  sugar 
added  with  each  cup  of  fruit;  use  straAvberries, 
cherries,  red  raspberries,  pineapple,  oranges,  each 
fruit  in  its  season.   Put  in  2  quart  jar.    H.  J.  A. 

COLD  CHILI  SAUCE. 

One  peck  of  firm  ripe  tomatoes;  6  large  on- 
ions ;  6  green  peppers ;  5  cups  of  vinegar ;  2  pounds 
of  light  brown  sugar;  1  small  cup  salt;  2  ounces 
white  mustard  seed;  chop  tomatoes,  onions  and 
peppers;  add  salt  and  let  drain  over  night.  Add 
vinegar,  sugar  and  mustard  seed.    Put  in  bottles. 

Mrs.  John  T.  Morrison. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Twelve  ripe  tomatoes ;  4  onions ;  3  red  peppers ; 
2  tablespoons  salt;  5  tablespoons  sugar;  1  table- 
spoon cinnamon;  3  cups  vinegar.    Boil  tomatoes 


Watches  cleaned,  $1.00.    Evans'  Jewelry  Store.    All  work 


COOK  BOOK 


155 


with  skins  on.  When  tender,  strain  through  sieve. 
Chop  the  onions  and  peppers  fine;  do  not  use 
seeds  of  the  peppers.  Add  other  ingredients  and 
boil  two  hours.  Mrs.  Houston. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Eighteen  large  ripe  tomatoes;  8  red  peppers; 
1  onion;  chop  fine;  add  4  cups  vinegar;  2  table- 
spoons salt;  4  tablespoons  sugar;  2  teaspoons  gin- 
ger, (ground)  ;  2  teaspoons  cloves,  (ground)  ;  2 
teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  (ground)  ;  2  teaspoons  of 
allspice,  (ground)  ;  2  teaspoons  of  nutmeg, 
(ground)  ;  boil  one  hour.  Will  make  about  3 
quarts.  Mrs.  Morrow. 

PICCALILLI. 

One-half  peck  of  green  tomatoes ;  1  dozen  large 
cucumbers;  2  heads  of  cabbage;  2  large  silver  on- 
ions; 5  large  red  peppers;  4  green  peppers;  1  cof- 
fee cup  horse-radish;  one-half  pint  salt;  10  cents 
worth  of  white  mustard  seed;  10  cents'  worth 
black  mustard  seed;  2  ounces  celery  seed.  Mix  to- 
matoes, cucumbers  and  salt.  Let  stand  4  hours 
and  drain  in  colander;  scald  one-half  gallon  vine- 
gar; 2  pounds  sugar;  pour  over  this  mixture  and 
scald  all  well  together.    Makes  about  10  quarts. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Pierce. 

CHOW  CHOW. 

One  quart  ripe  cucumbers,  pared  and  cut  in 
pieces;  1  quart  tiny  white  onions;  1  quart  very 
small  green  cucumbers;  3  heads  of  cauliflower;  4 
green  peppers,  cut  in  pieces ;  1  quart  of  green  toma- 
toes,    (tiny  ones  cut  in  halves)  ;    3  bunches  of 


Warranted. 


156 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


celery,  cut  in  pieces.  Put  all  in  a  weak  brine  over 
night  in  cold  water.  Next  morning  scald  in  the 
same  water,  and  drain  thoroughly. 

Paste  for  Above. 

Six  tablespoons  mustard;  one-half  tablespoon 
curry  powder;  one-half  tablespoon  turmeric;  one 
and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar;  1  cup  flour.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  add  two  quarts  vinegar.  Scald 
until  it  thickens.  Mix  with  above  and  bottle  or 
can.  Mrs.  Charles  Adams. 

CHOW  CHOW  (uncooked) 

One  gal.  chopped  cabbage;  2  qts.  chopped 
green  tomatoes;  6  onions  chopped  and  sliced  thin; 
1  tablespoon  ground  pepper;  1  tablespoon  celery 
seed;  1  tablespoon  whole  allspice;  one-half  table- 
spoon whole  cloves;  3  tablespoons  salt;  one-half 
gallon  vinegar;  one-fourth  cup  mustard  seed;  one- 
half  pound  brown  sugar.  Some  add  chopped  green 
peppers  and  1  cup  grated  horse  radish.  Mix  well 
and  place  in  crock.   Will  keep  all  winter. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Morrow. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE 

One  peck  green  tomatoes  sliced  with  1  dozen 
onions  and  six  green  peppers;  salt  and  let  stand 
over  night;  drain;  boil  in  3  pints  vinegar  twenty 
minutes;  drain;  take  3  pints  vinegar,  1  lb.  brown 
sugar;  2  oz.  mustard  seed;  1  oz.  turmeric;  1  oz. 
ground  mustard;  1  oz.  black  ground  pepper;  1  oz. 
cinnamon;  add  salt  if  needed.  Heat  ingredients 
and  pour  into  jar.    Put  plate  anl  weight  on  jar. 

Catherine  Moore. 


Fine  meals  and  fine  silver  go  together.    See  Con  Hesse  for 


COOK  BOOK 


157 


GREEN  TOMATO  SOY 

Tavo  gallons  of  green  tomatoes  sliced;  12  large 
onions  sliced;  2  quarts  of  vinegar;  1  quart  of 
sugar;  2  tablespoons  each  of  salt,  ground  mustard 
and  black  pepper  ground;  1  tablespoon  each  of  all- 
spice and  cloves.  Stew  until  tender,  stirring  often. 
Seal  in  glass  jars.  Mrs.  Tipton. 

DILL  PICKLES 

Select  uniform  cucumbers;  soak  in  clear 
water  a  short  time,  then  wipe  each  one;  place  in 
crock  or  keg  with  a  layer  of  cucumbers  and  a  layer 
of  dill  alternately;  pour  over  them  a  brine  of  one 
cup  of  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water  which  has  been 
boiled;  place  plate  or  rock  on  them  to  hold  them 
down;  they  are  ready  to  use  in  about  ten  days. 

Mrs.  Elizabeth  Cohen. 

SHIRLEY  SAUCE. 

Twelve  large  tomatoes;  4  red  peppers  without 
seeds;  1  large  onion;  2  cups  vinegar;  1  tablespoon 
sugar;  salt  to  taste.  Peel  and  slice  tomatoes,  chop 
peppers  and  onions,  boil  one  hour  and  strain;  add 
6  cloves  of  garlic,  1  teaspoon  tabasco  sauce  and  2 
level  tablespoons  corn  starch. 

Mrs.  Bradley  Sheppard. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES  (uncooked) 

Select  medium  sized  cucumbers,  cover  with 
water;  pour  off  water,  measure,  take  the  same 
amount  of  vinegar,  and  to  each  gallon  add  scant 
cup  of  salt;  pour  over  pickles,  place  small  pieces 
of  horseradish  in  jar.  These  will  keep  well  all 
winter.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Wyman. 


the  silver. 


158 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


PICKLED  GREEN  TOMATOES  AND  CU- 
CUMBERS 

One  gallon  sliced  tomatoes;  salt  to  taste;  pour 
on  boiling  water  and  let  stand  over  night;  drain, 
boil  water  and  pour  over  again;  when  cool  drain; 
1  tablespoon  black  pepper;  1  tablespoon  mace;  1 
tablespoon  cloves;  1  tablespoon  ground  mustard; 
1  tablespoon  cinnamon;  2  tablespoons  celery  seed; 
4  tablespoons  white  mustard  seed;  2  green  pep- 
pers; 4  onions  chopped  fine;  1  pint  grated  horse- 
radish; 1  lb.  of  brown  sugar;  cover  with  cold  vin- 
egar. Mrs.  Charles.  Adams. 

TOMATO  HIGDOM. 

One-half  bushel  green  tomatoes;  1  dozen  big 
onions  chopped  fine,  and  stir  in  one  pint  of  salt; 

1  head  cabbage;  six  green  peppers  chopped  fine; 
put  all  together  in  a  colander  to  drain  over  night, 
then  cover  with  good  vinegar;  cook  sIoavIv  half  an 
hour,  then  drain  and  put  in  a  jar.  Take  2  lbs. 
sugar,  one  quart  vinegar,  one  pint  grated  horse- 
radish, 1  half  teacup  ground  mustard,  one-half 
tablespoon  ground  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  ground 
allspice,  1  tablespoon  ground  cloves;  boil  together; 
when  hot  stir  through  the  rest. 

Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart. 

MIXED  PICKLES 

Two  quarts  cucumbers  cut  into  small  pieces; 
two  quarts  green  tomatoes;  2  quarts  small  onions; 

2  quarts  vinegar ;  2  cups  brown  sugar ;  1  cup  flour ; 
4  tablespoons  of  white  mustard  seed ;  6  tablespoons 
of  ground  mustard;  2  tablespoons  of  turmeric;  1 
head  of  cabbage,  chopped  fine;  1  large  head  of 


Lemps — Popular  Boys'  and  Children's  Clothing.  .Popular 


COOK  BOOK 


159 


cauliflower,  cut  small;  7  green  peppers,  chopped. 
Put  vegetables  all  in  brine  and  let  stand  over 
night;  drain  the  pickles;  mix  together  the  flour, 
mustard,  sugar,  turmeric  and  vinegar  and  pour  the 
mixture  over  them ;  let  it  cook  slowly  half  an  hour 
or  more.  Mrs.  A.  Rossi. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES 

Four  quarts  small  cucumbers;  one  quart  small 
onions;  five  quarts  of  sliced  green  tomatoes;  three 
quarts  of  cauliflower;  four  large  red  peppers;  one- 
half  oz.  turmeric;  two  cups  of  sugar;  one-half  cup 
flour;  twenty  tablespoons  of  mustard;  Ave  quarts 
of  vinegar,  not  too  strong.  Soak  cucumbers,  on- 
ions, tomatoes  and  cauliflower  in  strong  brine  over 
night.  Boil  onions  one-half  hour  in  clear  water, 
then  add  them  to  the  other  ingredients  and  cook 
all  slowly  one  hour.  Mrs.  Kinyon. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 

Twenty  lbs.  ripe  tomatoes;  1  tablespoon  black 
pepper  (whole)  ;  one-half  tablespoon  cloves 
(whole)  ;  one-half  tablespoon  allspice  (whole)  ;  1 
tablespoon  salt;  1  tablespoon  black  pepper 
(ground);  1  tablespoon  sugar;  1  even  teaspoon 
cayenne  pepper;  2  teaspoons  ground  mustard;  one- 
half  teacup  vinegar.  Cut  up  the  ripe  tomatoes, 
add  whole  pepper,  allspice  and  cloves,  and  boil  un- 
til entirely  soft;  then  force  through  a  fine  colan- 
der; boil  this  mixture  to  desired  thickness,  add  re- 
mainder of  spices;  mix  mustard  in  a  little  cold 
water  to  prevent  lumping;  add  vinegar  last;  let 
boil  again;  then  bottle,  do  not  cork  until  cold.  Be 
sure  to  thoroughly  scald  bottles.    Will  keep  well. 

Mrs.  Morrow. 


Prices. 


160 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


FRESH  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

Get  small  ones  of  uniform  size;  place  in  a 
stone  crock;  pour  on  boiling  water  to  cover;  put 
in  a  large  handful  of  salt;  let  stand  over  night; 
drain  off  in  the  morning;  pour  on  more  boiling  wa- 
ter and  same  quantity  of  salt.  Let  stand  till  next 
morning.  Drain  off  the  water  and  wash  pickles 
in  clear  water.  Dry  with  a  towel.  Put  in  a  crock 
and  pour  on  boiling  cider  vinegar.  Then  put  in 
small  horse  radish  roots.  These  pickles  will  keep 
in  a  common  stone  crock  all  winter. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Chrisman. 

WATER  MELON  PICKLES 

Peel  and  slice  water  melon  rind;  soak  over 
night  in  strong  salt  and  water  with  a  small  piece 
of  pulverized  alum;  in  morning  put  on  stove  in 
fresh  cold  water  and  let  boil  until  rind  will  break 
with  a  straw;  drain;  make  syrup  of  1  quart  vine- 
gar to  3  lbs.  of  sugar;  when  boiling  hot  pour  over 
rind ;  next  morning  draw  off  syrup,  add  bay  leaves, 
whole  cloves,  whole  allspice  and  cinnamon  stick; 
boil  syrup  down  some;  pour  syrup  over  rind  three 
mornings  in  all.  Be  sure  of  sufficient  syrup  to 
cover  rind.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Morrow. 

OIL  PICKLES 

Select  30  medium  sized  cucumbers,  cut  in  one- 
fourth  inch  slices,  add  1  cup  of  olive  oil,  1  cup  of 
white  mustard  seed,  1  cup  black  mustard  seed,  one- 
half  cup  salt  and  1  quart  sour  vinegar ;  mix  and  let 
stand  six  weeks.  Miss  O'Connor. 


Start  your  account  with  the  Bank  of  Commerce. 


COOK  BOOK 


161 


..  BEVERAGES. .. 


"One  sip  of  this 
Will  bathe  the  drooping-  spirits  in  delight 
Beyond  the  bliss  of  dreams." 

COFFEE 

Four  tablespoons  ground  coffee;  1  egg  (white 
and  shell)  ;  1  cup  cold  water;  4  cups  boiling  water. 
Beat  the  whites,  crushed  shell  and  one-half  of  the 
cold  water  together;  mix  thoroughly  with  the  coffee 
and  let  stand  10  or  15  minutes;  put  in  a  heated 
coffee  pot  and  pour  over  it  the  boiling  water ;  bring 
the  coffee  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  one-fourth 
cup  of  cold  water ;  bring  again  to  the  boiling  point 
and  add  one-fourth  cup  of  cold  water  and  let  come 
a  third  time  to  the  boiling  point;  strain  and  serve. 

CHOCOLATE 

Two  squares  chocolate;  1  tablespoons  sugar; 
1  cup  boiling  water;  3  cups  scalded  milk.  Cut 
chocolate  in  bits,  put  in  sauce-pan  and  set  in  hot 
water;  when  melted  add  sugar  and  water  and  stir 
till  smooth;  pour  into  this  part  of  the  hot  milk, 
then  pour  chocolate  back  into  rest  of  milk  and  stir 
till  it  comes  to  a  boil;  beat  with  Dover  beater  till 
frothy.  Serve  with  spoonful  of  Avhipped  cream  on 
top  of  each  cup.  Mrs.  J.  A.  Hays. 


Start  an  account  with  us — Bank  of  Commerce. 


162 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


TEA 

One  teaspoon  tea  to  1  cup  boiling  water;  put  the 
tea  in  a  scalded  pot  and  pour  the  boiling  water 
over  it :  steep  five  minutes ;  strain  and  serve  either 
hot  or  iced. 

COCOA 

Three  tablespoons  cocoa:  3  tablespoons  sugar; 
one-fourth  teaspoon  salt:  2  cups  water:  2  cups 
milk :  mix  the  cocoa,  sugar  and  salt  with  the  water 
and  boil  live  minutes;  stir  this  into  the  hot  milk 
and  cook  in  double  boiler  one-half  hour. 

Miss  Long. 

RASPBERRY  SHRUB 

To  three  quarts  of  ripe  red  raspberries  add  1 
quart  of  vinegar:  crush  the  berries:  let  the  vinegar 
stand  on  the  berries  1  night :  then  strain  and  put  to 
each  pint  of  juice  1  lb.  of  white  sugar:  boil  the 
whole  together  for  one-half  hour:  skim  it  clear: 
bottle  and  seal:  dilute  to  taste,  about  one  part 
shrub  and  three  parts  water. 

ICED  COFFEE 

Cool  two  quarts  of  good  coffee,  medium 
strength:  have  ready  and  cool  a  syrup  made  with 
one  cup  water  and  two  of  granulated  sugar  :  into 
this  beat  one  pint  whipped  cream :  put  quantity 
of  coffee  desired  into  glasses  and  add  the  whipped 
syrup  and  cream.  Lttcy  E.  Xourse. 

ORANGE  PHOSPHATE 

Six  good  sized  oranges — if  small  take  eight — 
4  lbs.  of  granulated  sugar:  two  and  one-half  pints 


Boise  City  Nat'l  Bank.  Capital,  8100,000.  Surplus,  8100.000. 


COOK  BOOK 


163 


of  cold  water;  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  citric 
acid.  Kub  thoroughly  through  the  sugar  the  grat- 
ed rinds  of  the  oranges,  and  let  it  stand  over  night ; 
stir  in  the  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cool 
place  twenty-four  hours;  then  add  the  citric  acid 
previously  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water;  use 
no  more  than  will  dissolve  it;  you  do  not  use  the 
juice  of  the  oranges;  strain  through  a  strainer, 
then  through  cheese  cloth ;  bottle,  cork  tightly,  and 
keep  in  a  cool  place.  When  desired  put  sufficient 
in  a  glass  of  ice  water  to  make  a  pleasant  drink. 

LEMONADE 

Take  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  and  a 
half  lemons,  one  teacup  sugar  and  one  quart  of 
water;  put  the  sugar  and  grated  rind  in  pitcher 
and  let  stand  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  juice  of 
lemon  and  water.  Mrs.  McCrum. 

GRAPE  NECTAR 

Pour  one-half  gallon  of  boiling  Avater  over  12 
lbs.  grapes;  set  in  a  cool  place  and  leave  it  28 
hours;  then  mash  fruit  and  strain  the  juice  through 
cloth  several  times  as  for  jelly;  add  one-half  as 
much  sugar  as  you  have  juice,  also  5  ounces  of 
tartaric  acid;  stir  until  sugar  and  acid  are  thor- 
oughly dissolved,  then  bottle  cold  and  seal  with 
paraffine.  When  preparing  it  to  drink  add  sugar 
and  water  to  suit  taste  just  as  you  would  for  lem- 
onade. 

MULLED  GRAPE  JUICE  OR  CLARET 

One  pint  of  water;  one  pint  of  claret  or  grape 
juice;  3  cloves;  3  sticks  of  cinnamon;  one-half  cup 


Why  don't  you  save?    Others  do.    Bank  of  Commerce. 


164 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


of  cube  sugar;  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Boil  sugar 
and  water  to  a  syrup  with  the  spices;  take  from 
the  fire,  remove  the  cinnamon  and  add  the  claret 
or  grape  juice;  serve  hot  with  a  slice  of  lemon  in 
each  punch  glass.  Mrs.  Beatty. 

ROMAN  PUNCH 

One  and  a  fourth  lbs.  of  sugar ;  1  qt.  of  water ; 
1  large,  juicy  orange;  4  large  lemons;  7  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rum;  2  tablespoons  sherry  wine;  3 
tablespoons  of  brandy.  Freeze  the  water  ice  very 
hard ;  then  add  the  rum,  sherry  and  brandy ;  freeze 
a  few  minutes  longer  and  serve  in  sherbet  glasses. 

Winifred  C.  Deary. 

UNFEKMENTED  GRAPE  JUICE 

Take  grapes  from  stem,  wash,  place  on  fire  in 
granite  kettle  with  water  to  almost  cover,  and 
cook  until  soft ;  take  from  the  fire,  strain ;  to  every 
quart  of  juice  add  one-third  cup  of  sugar,  cook  to 
the  boiling  point,  then  seal  air  tight  while  hot. 

Gertrude  L.  Hays.  ^ 

EGG  NOG 

Whip  well  together  in  a  bowl  the  yolk  of  one 
egg,  and  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  then 
stir  in  one  or  two  tablespoonsful  of  best  brandy 
or  whiskey;  now  stir  in  carefully  the  white  of  one 
egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  one  cupful  of  sweet 
thin  cream  whipped  also  to  a  froth;  the  egg  froth 
and  the  whipped  cream  should  be  quite  ready  before 
the  other  ingredients  are  mixed  together. 


In  Salad  Dressing  much  depends  upon  the  oil — Get  "Beri 


COOK  BOOK 


165 


..  CHAFING  DISH.  .. 


"  Mav  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite,  and 
Health  on  both." 

The  dishes  most  suitable  for  chafing  dish  cook- 
ing are  stews,  eggs  and  cheese  preparations.  Can- 
ned chicken,  tongue,  salmon,  crabs,  oysters,  and 
shrimps  make  good  dishes,  and  are  easily  prepared. 

WELSH  RAREBIT 
(for  four  people) 

One  lb.  cream  cheese;  butter  size  of  walnut; 
cayenne  pepper  to  taste;  one-half  teaspoon  mus- 
tard; salt  to  taste;  1  egg;  one-half  glass  (or  more) 
ale  or  beer.  Put  in  the  chafing  dish  the  beer  (or 
ale),  the  butter  and  seasoning;  when  this  begins 
to  boil  up  well  add  the  cheese  and  stir  briskly  till 
melted  and  it  begins  to  bubble;  then  stir  in  the 
well  beaten  egg;  extinguish  flame  under  chafing 
dish  before  putting  in  the  egg. 

A.  Sonna. 

LOBSTER  a  la  HOLLAND AISE. 

One-fourth  cup  vinegar;  2  tablespoons  butter; 
nutmeg;  paprika;  4  egg  yolks;  1  pt.  diced  lobster. 
Heat  vinegar,  add  butter  and  seasoning;  beat  the 

Best"  at  Joy's. 


166 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


egg  yolks ;  pour  hot  vinegar  slowly  over  eggs,  stir- 
ring constantly;  put  back  in  pan  and  cook  until 
creamy;  add  lobster;  serve  on  toast. 

Mrs.  Lemp. 

SARDINES  a  la  STERNEAU. 

Remove  bones  from  an  ordinary  box  of  sar- 
dines and  shred  them  with  a  fork;  put  small  piece 
of  butter  in  a  chafing  dish,  then  add  sardines; 
when  hot  add  3  tablespoonsful  lemon  juice  and  3 
tablespoonfuls  Blue  Label  ketchup;  mix  well  to- 
gether and  when  hot  serve  on  crackers  or  toasted 
bread. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN 

Two  cups  cold  chicken  cut  into  small  pieces; 
one  cup  of  chicken  stock ;  one  cup  of  cream  or  milk ; 
two  tablespoonsful  of  butter;  one  heaping  table- 
spoon of  flour;  salt  and  pepper;  cook  the  butter 
and  flour  together  in  the  chafing  dish;  add  the 
stock  and  milk  and  stir  until  smooth. 

Mrs.  Jones. 

EGGS  WITH  CHEESE 

One  egg;  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  dry  grated 
cheese;  1  tablespoonful  butter;  one-half  teaspoon- 
f ul  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Beat  the  eggs  light 
and  add  the  cheese,  salt  and  pepper;  have  the  but- 
ter melted  in  the  blazer,  turn  in  the  eggs  and  stir 
until  thick  and  smooth.   Serve  on  toast  or  crackers. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Davies. 

EGGS  a  la  ITALIENNE. 
Five  eggs;  one-half  pint  milk;  one-half  cupful 


Joy's  Vanilla  and  Lemon  Extracts  are  absolutely  pure — 


COOK  BOOK 


167 


boiled  spaghetti  cut  up  fine;  one-half  teacupful 
mushrooms  sliced;  1  tablespoonful  butter;  1  table- 
spoonful  chopped  parsley ;  1  teaspoonf ul  salt  and  a 
dash  of  cayenne.  Melt  butter  and  heat  milk  in  a 
chafing  dish  over  hot  water ;  stir  in  the  beaten  eggs 
and  when  they  begin  to  thicken  add  the  spaghetti, 
mushrooms,  parsley  and  seasoning.  Cook  until 
Avarmed  through. 

SAUTE  OF  KIDNEY    FOE    CHAFING  DISH. 

Half  a  dozen  lamb  kidneys ;  soak  several  hours 
in  salt  and  water;  melt  tablespoon  butter;  stir  in 
tablespoon  flour;  after  browning  it,  add  one  and 
one-half  cups  hot  water;  boil;  add  kidneys  cut  in 
dice;  boil  five  minutes;  add  wine  glass  of  sherry. 
This  will  serve  six.     Mrs.  Bradley  Sheppard. 

EISOTTO 

Three  pints  broth  or  stock,  heat  to  boiling 
point ;  one  and  a  half  cups  rice ;  melt  butter  size  of 
egg  in  chafing  dish;  brown  the  rice  and  one-half 
small  onion  with  the  butter;  add  stock  slowly  as 
rice  boils;  when  rice  is  tender  and  the  stock  is  ex- 
hausted, add  one-half  cup  grated  cheese. 

Mrs.  Bradley  Sheppard. 

LOBSTER  a  la  NEWBERG. 

Two  medium  sized  lobsters;  4  tablespoons  but- 
ter ;  2  tablespoons  sherry  wine ;  2  tablespoons  bran- 
dy ;  nutmeg ;  salt ;  pepper ;  4  egg  yolks ;  1  cup  cream 
or  milk.  Heat  cream,  beat  eggs  and  add,  stirring- 
well  ;  add  butter  and  seasonings  and  lobster.  Serve 
on  toast.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Haines. 

PANNED  OYSTERS 
Two  tablespoons  butter;  one-half  to  one  dozen 


some  kinds  are  not. 


168 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


oysters;  salt  and  pepper;  rounds  of  toast.  Fry 
toast  in  butter  with  an  oyster  on  top  of  each  piece 
of  toast ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Sauce 

Two  tablespoons  butter;  1  tablespoon  parsley; 
one-half  lemon  juice;  salt;  paprika.  Cream  butter, 
then  cream  butter  and  lemon  juice;  add  parsley, 
salt  and  paprika ;  put  a  little  on  top  of  each  oyster 
and  serve. 

LOBSTER  a  la  POULETTE. 

One-third  cup  butter;  one-third  cup  flour;  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt;  paprika;  one-fourth  teaspoon 
white  pepper ;  1  cup  cream  or  milk ;  1  cup  chicken 
stock;  one-half  lemon  juice;  1  pt.  diced  lobster. 
Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  seasonings,  blend  thor- 
oughly, add  milk  and  chicken  broth  slowly;  cook 
until  it  thickens;  add  lobster,  and  lastly  lemon 
juice.  Serve  on  crackers  and  garnish  with  hard 
boiled  eggs,  the  yolks  being  grated  and  whites 
sliced.  Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen. 

MARSH  MALLOWS. 

Soak  2  tablespoons  of  gelatin  in  6  tablespoons 
of  water  10  minutes;  while  this  is  soaking  boil  2 
cups  of  sugar  with  one-half  cup  water  until  it  hairs, 
then  pour  slowly  into  the  soaked  gelatin  and  beat 
10  minutes;  add  the  white  of  one  egg  and  beat  10 
minutes  more;  flavor  with  vanilla.  When  this  is 
very  stringy  turn  into  a  buttered  pan  that  has  been 
dusted  with  corn  starch.  Cut  into  squares  and  roll 
in  powdered  sugar.  Elizabeth  Hays. 

CURRIED  OYSTERS 
One  pint  oysters ;  one-half  cup  cream  or  milk ; 


Automatic  Refrigerators  have  positive  air  circula- 


COOK  BOOK 


169 


2  tablespoons  butter;  1  tablespoon  flour;  one-half 
cup  oyster  liquor;  1  teaspoon  salt;  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon pepper ;  curry  powder  to  taste.  Melt  the  but- 
ter; add  flour  and  seasonings;  blend  thoroughly; 
when  it  bubbles  add  milk  and  oyster  liquor  slowly 
and  cook  until  thick  or  creamy;  add  oysters  and 
cook  until  heated  through.    Serve  on  crackers. 

Marguerite  Nolan  Lemp. 

PAN  KOAST 

Twenty-five  oysters,  well  drained;  1  teaspoon- 
ful  Worcestershire;  one-half  teaspoonful  salt;  2 
tablespoonsful  butter;  1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice; 
one-half  teaspoon  red  pepper;  1  salt  spoonful  black 
pepper.  Put  butter  in  chafing  dish  and  when 
creamy  add  seasoning ;  when  thoroughly  mixed  and 
hot  add  oysters;  cover  and  cook  until  plump,  and 
edges  ruffled.    Serve  on  toast. 

SCKAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  TOMATOES 

Five  eggs;  cupful  of  tomatoes;  salt  and  pep- 
per; beat  the  eggs  enough  to  blend  the  whites  and 
yolks;  add  the  tomatoes,  drained  and  cut  fine; 
serve  on  hot  plates;  ham,  bacon  or  oysters  may  be 
used  instead  of  tomatoes.       Mrs.  S.  J.  Jones. 

PANOCHE. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar;  1  cup  maple  syrup;  1 
cup  cream ;  1  cup  chopped  walnuts  or  pecans.  Boil 
sugar,  cream  and  syrup  until  it  Avill  make  a  soft 
ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water;  then  take  from 
stove,  add  nuts  and  stir  until  mixture  begins  to 
cream;  pour  on  buttered  pans  and  cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  0.  C.  Anderson. 


tion.    ALLEN- WRIGHT  FURNITURE  CO.  LTD. 


170 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


FIG  PANOCHE. 

One  cup  white  sugar;  2  cups  brown  sugar;  1 
cup  cream;  butter  size  of  an  egg;  2  large  table- 
spoons cocoa;  1  cup  chopped  nuts;  1  cup  figs  cut 
in  small  pieces  and  floured  to  prevent  lumping. 
Heat  cream ;  add  cocoa  and  butter ;  when  dissolved 
add  the  sugar ;  boil,  stirring  constantly  until  forms 
ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water ;  add  nuts  and  figs. 
Pour  into  well  buttered  platter  and  cut  into 
squares  when  cool.  Laurtna  Sonna. 

FONDANT  CREAM 

Two  cups  sugar;  1  scant  cup  water.  Boil  un- 
til you  can  make  a  soft  ball  in  water ;  take  off  stove 
and  set  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  without  stirring; 
when  almost  cold  beat  to  a  thick  cream;  put  on  a 
board  and  knead  in  pulverized  sugar  and  mold  and 
color. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS 

Three  cups  sugar;  one  and  a  half  cups  milk 
and  2  sq.  chocolate.  Boil  until  you  can  make  a 
soft  ball  in  water;  set  outdoors  to  cool;  when  al- 
most cold  stir  until  it  is  a  thick  cream  and  can  be 
molded. 

SAUTE  BANANAS 

Remove  skins  from  bananas;  cut  in  halves 
lengthwise;  again  in  halves  crosswise;  put  one 
tablespoonful  butter  in  blazer;  when  hot  add  ba- 
nanas and  cook  until  soft,  turning  once;  drain, 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  a  little  sherry  wine, 
orange  or  lemon  juice  and  serve. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Dunton. 


Hoosier  Cabinets,  Compact,  Convenient, 


COOK  BOOK 


171 


SANDWICHES 


"  This  is  the  witch  ever  welcome  to  me, 
At  morn  or  eve  with  gladness  I  see, 
Nor  envy  the  great  nor  sigh  for  more  riches, 
If  only  my  plate  is  piled  high  with  sandwiches." 

SARDINE 

Rub  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  through  fine 
strainer;  mix  with  butter,  creamed;  add  sardines, 
skinned,  boned  and  mashed  to  a  paste ;  season  with 
lemon  juice  and  minced  olives. 

EGG 

Lay  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs  between  crisp  let- 
tuce leaves;  spread  the  bread  with  butter  and  then 
with  mayonnaise. 

CUCUMBER 

Chop  two  good-sized  cucumbers  fine;  add  a 
little  onion  juice,  a  dash  of  red  pepper  and  as  much 
mayonnaise  dressing  as  will  make  it  the  right  con- 
sistency. 

CELERY 

Take  equal  parts  of  finely  chopped  celery,  wal- 


Sanitary.    ALLEN-WRIGHT  FURNITURE  CO.  LTD. 


172 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


nut  meats  and  olives;  mix  with  French  dressing 
and  put  between  buttered  brown  bread. 

NASTURTIUM 

One  dozen  nasturtium  blossoms,  two  table- 
spoons of  mayonnaise  dressing.  Spread  white 
bread  with  the  mayonnaise  and  place  each  blossom 
overlaying  the  next  half  way  to  give  substance  to 
the  filling.    Eoll  the  sandwiches. 

TOMATO 

Pare,  chill  and  cut  the  tomatoes  very  thin; 
place  a  slice  of  tomato  on  thinly  sliced  and  but- 
tered rounds  of  Avhite  bread ;  dust  with  salt,  pepper 
and  a  speck  of  lemon  juice ;  cover  with  another  cir- 
cular piece  and  garnish  the  plate  with  parsley. 

BEEF 

Season  a  cup  of  rare  roast  beef  chopped  fine 
with  a  little  celery  salt,  tomato  catsup  and  Wor- 
cestershire sauce ;  add  ten  drops  of  onion  juice  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter.  Mix  all  thoroughly. 

CHICKEN 

Boil  a  chicken  until  perfectly  tender;  chop 
fine  and  moisten  with  a  little  liquor  it  was  boiled 
in ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  mushroom  catsup. 
White  bread. 

CLUB  HOUSE 

Chop  the  meat  of  one  cold  boiled  chicken  very 
fine;  rub  a  mixing-bowl  well  with  garlic  and  place 
in  it  the  prepared  chicken;  add  yolks  of  six  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  previously  mashed,  1  tablespoonful 


Try  our  savings  department — Bank  of  Commerce. 


COOK  BOOK 


173 


each  of  minced  parsley,  vinegar  and  lemon  juice,  1 
teaspoonful  onion  juice,  salt,  pepper,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  celery  salt  and  enough  olive  oil  to  moisten 
sufficiently  to  spread  on  bread,  thinly  sliced  and 
buttered. 

PEANUT  BUTTER 

One-half  box  of  peanut  butter;  1  dozen  olives, 
stoned  and  chopped  fine;  season  with  lemon  juice 
and  salt. 

PECAN 

One  cup  pecan  meats  chopped  fine,  mixed  with 
2  .  tablespoonsf ul  of  mayonnaise  cream  dressing. 
Walnuts  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

WALNUT 

Spread  little  rounds  of  Boston  brown  bread 
with  butter  and  walnut  meats  chopped  fine. 

HAM 

Chop  some  cold  boiled  ham  very  fine;  spread 
on  well-buttered  Graham  bread;  slice  mustard 
pickles  very  thin  and  lay  on  top  of  the  ham,  using 
a  little  of  the  mustard  dressing  to  moisten. 

CHICKEN  LIVER 

Saute  one-half  dozen  chicken  livers  with  a  lit- 
tle onion  in  butter  until  brown ;  then  add  well  sea- 
soned chicken  stock  and  let  simmer  until  tender; 
Mash  the  livers  with  a  wooden  spoon  through  a 
sieve;  season  with  salt,  paprika,  mustard  and  a 
dash  of  curry ;  put  this  mixture  in  an  earthen  dish 
and  press  until  cold. 


IJoisc  City  Nat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


174 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


SWEETBREAD. 

Cook  the  sweetbreads  until  tender;  drain  and 
put  in  cold  water;  pull  each  section  apart,  remov- 
ing skin ;  chop  fine,  and  to  1  cup  of  sweetbreads  add 
1  cup  of  cucumbers  or  celery  chopped  fine;  moisten 
with  mayonnaise  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

PEANUT 

Chop  the  meats  fine ;  salt  to  taste ;  add  a  little 
sherry  or  port  wine  to  make  thick  paste  and  spread 
between  buttered  bread. 

CANDIED  CHERRIES 

Chop  cherries  fine;  add  as  many  seeded  rais- 
ins, chopped  fine;  moisten  with  sherry;  add  a  little 
lemon  juice  and  stir  well;  it  should  be  a  thick 
paste. 

CHEESE 

1.  Dip  the  crisp  inner  leaves  of  the  lettuce  in  a 
French  dressing  just  an  instant ;  lay  them  between 
thin  slices  of  buttered  brown  bread  on  which  has 
been  spread  cream  cheese  made  soft  with  cream. 

2.  Cut  bread  thin  and  spread  with  soft  butter ;  be- 
tween the  pieces  place  thin  slices  of  Swiss  cheese; 
spread  with  made  mustard. 

3.  Grate  any  cheese,  rub  it  to  a  paste  with  but- 
ter and  spread  the  bread ;  cut  into  strips  and  serve 
with  salad. 

SALMON 

Cook  salmon  the  day  before  in  a  bouillon 
made  of  red  wine  and  water  (equal  parts),  salt, 


We  pay  4  per  cent  interest  on  deposits— Bank  of  Commerce. 


COOK  BOOK 


175 


peppercorns,  a  sliced  onion,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley ; 
let  cool  and  drain ;  when  ready  to  make  sandwiches 
put  in  a  bowl  with  salt,  pepper,  chopped  shallots 
and  parsley,  a  little  vinegar  and  sweet  oil ;  beat  the 
mixture  well  with  a  wire  whip  and  spread. 

LETTUCE 

Shred  the  lettuce  with  a  fork  and  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice;  spread  between  thin- 
ly sliced  and  buttered  rounds  of  bread,  and  press 
a  thin  slice  of  tomato  on  the  top  of  each. 

BOSTON 

Press  cold  baked  beans  through  a  colander ;  add 
two  tablespoonsful  of  horseradish  and  two  of  cel- 
ery, minced,  to  each  cup  of  beans;  season  with 
onion  juice  and  made  mustard;  use  the  steamed 
Boston  brown  bread. 

ANCHOVY. 

Pound  the  anchovies  to  a  paste,  and  mix  with 
an  equal  amount  of  olives,  stoned  and  chopped  fine. 

ASTOEIA 

Soak  two  ounces  of  gelatin  in  one  cupful  of 
chicken  liquor  until  it  is  thoroughly  softened;  add 
three  cupfuls  of  chicken  broth  highly  seasoned 
with  celery,  parsley,  two  cloves,  blade  of  mace,  salt 
and  pepper;  set  on  ice  to  harden;  serve  on  whole 
wheat  bread,  buttered,  and  spread  with  sour  may- 
onnaise. 

LAKGE  EASTERN  OYSTERS,  FRIED 
Dip  lettuce  leaves  in  French  dressing;  put  the 


Con  Hesse,  headquarters  for  silverware  and  cut  glass. 


176 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


oysters  between  and  lay  between  slices  of  bntterecl 
white  bread. 

SHRIMP 

Chop  shrimp  very  fine  and  beat  to  a  paste  with 
oil  or  melted  butter ;  season  with  lemon  juice,  Wor- 
cestershire, cayenne  and  celery  salt;  spread  be- 
tAveen*  toasted  and  buttered  saltines. 

LOBSTER 

Chop  fine  the  meat  of  the  lobster ;  add  the  soft 
parts;  season  with  tabasco  sauce,  lemon  juice  and 
oil;  spread  upon  lightly  buttered  bread. 

MOCK  "PATE  DE  FOIE  GRAS"  FOR  SAND- 
WICHES 

Boil  in  separate  vessels  one  calves  liver  and 
one  tongue  in  slightly  salted  water ;  when  very  ten- 
der remove  from  stove  and  let  them  stand  in  liquor 
until  next  day;  then  rub  liver  to  a  paste,  moisten- 
ing with  melted  butter  and  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper,  cayenne,  nutmeg,  grated  onions,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  made  mustard  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce;  mix  thoroughly  and  put  in 
a  small  jar,  buttering  the  inside  well  and  inserting 
here  and  there  the  tongue  cut  in  small  bits  ;  when 
the  jar  is  packed  cover  with  melted  butter  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place;  cut  into  slices  for  luncheons,  or  it 
can  be  used  very  prettily  with  a  lettuce  leaf  for 
sandwiches.  Mrs.  Hiesch. 

FIG  CANOPIES 

Cut  bread  in  thin  slices ;  spread  with  creamed 
butter  and  a  fig  mixture  made  from  the  following : 


Boise  City  Xat'l  Bank.  Capital,  $100,000.  Surplus,  $100,000. 


COOK  BOOK 


177 


Cook  one-fourth  c.  figs  in  boiling  water  till  tender, 
season  with  lemon  juice  or  brandy;  chop  and 
spread  on  bread;  put  together  like  sandwiches. 

SALTED  ALMONDS 

Boil  blanched  almonds  in  salted  water,  using 
1  tablespoonful  salt  to  1  qt.  of  water,  for  10  min- 
utes; pour  off  Avater  and  brown  in  olive  oil  in  a 
granite  frying  pan.  Harriet  O'Conner. 


178 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


FOREIGN  DISHES 


NOODLES  FOR  SOUP 

Tavo  eggs;  flour  enough  to  thicken;  rub  into 
the  eggs  as  much  flour  as  they  will  absorb ;  roll  out 
until  as  thin  as  a  wafer;  cut  into  strips  about  3 
inches  wide,  then  cut  the  strips  into  as  fine  strings 
as  possible ;  shake  lightly  into  soup  or  boiling  salted 
water  and  cook  10  minutes.        Lena  Fong. 

NOODLES 

FOR  EIGHT  OR  TEN  PERSONS 

Four  eggs;  four  tablespoonsful  of  milk;  as 
much  flour  as  can  be  worked  in;  put  part  of  the 
flour  in  a  dish;  mix  thoroughly  with  the  eggs  and 
milk,  stirring  with  a  knife  or  spoon  until  you  have 
a  light  dough;  when  firm  enough  put  on  the  flour 
board  and  mix  in  as  much  flour  as  possible;  cut  in 
four  pieces  and  roll  each  out  as  thin  as  paper;  lay 
on  a  tablecloth  until  dry,  then  cut  into  narrow 
strips;  cook  in  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt  for 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  pour  in  a  colander ;  after 
the  water  has  drained  off  pour  a  cup  of  cold  water 
over  them  stirring  with  a  fork  and  add  a  little 
more  salt  ;  serve  with  cracker  crumbs  browned  in 
butter.  M.  Heuschkel. 


COOK  BOOK 


179 


HOT  T  AM  ALES 

Use  chicken  or  flank  beef  or  veal.  Boil  meat 
as  for  soup,  salting  well  when  about  half  done;  do 
this  the  day  before  making  tamales;  grind  the 
meat  or  pick  into  small  pieces ;  fry  one  large  onion 
cut  into  small  dice  in  one-fourth  lb.  of  butter  until 
brown ;  add  1  pint  of  fresh  tomatoes  or  two-thirds 
can  of  canned  tomatoes;  cook;  add  1  teaspoon  of 
comineo  seed,  or  to  taste;  one-half  teaspoon  of 
thyme;  one-half  section  of  large  garlic,  or  one  sec- 
tion of  small  garlic  cut  into  very  tiny  dice;  have  4 
large  red  peppers  boiled  in  enough  water  to  cover; 
push  through  a  sieve  and  add  to  other  ingredients, 
and  moisten  with  stock  from  the  meat  if  it  becomes 
dry;  add  meat  and  thicken  with  1  tablespoon 
flour  moistened  in  water;  salt  to  taste;  take  the 
stock  and  make  a  very  thick  mush  and  add  salt  and 
pepper;  take  corn  husks,  wash,  spread  with  the 
mush,  put  meat  inside  and  tie;  steam  one  hour  be- 
fore using.    Serve  with  Chili  sauce. 

Mrs.  K.  I.  Perky. 

SPANISH  CHICKEN 

One  and  a  half  cups  strained  tomatoes;  piece 
of  butter  size  of  walnut,  melted  on  stove;  flour 
stirred  in  until  smooth ;  a  little  onion,  grated ;  salt ; 
cayenne  pepper;  add  tomatoes;  cook  until  done; 
one-half  cup  maderia;  sufficient  for  one  chicken. 
Stew  chicken  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  not  to 
have  too  much  gravy;  cook  five  minutes  in  sauce. 
This  sauce  is  good  for  macaroni. 

M.   E.  KlDENBAUGH. 

CHICKEN  SPANISH 

Select  chicken  as  for  roasting;  disjoint,  roll  in 
flour  and  fry  a  nice  brown  in  equal  parts  of  lard 
and  butter;  remove  from  frying  pan  into  a  sauce- 


ISO 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


pan ;  cover  with  hot  water  and  cook  slowly  till  very 
tender :  make  gravy  very  tliick  and  add  Spanish 
sauce  made  as  follows:  One  can  of  tomatoes;  one 
small  onion ;  one  dozen  whole  cloves;  one  red  pep- 
per; salt  to  taste;  cook  all  together  one-half  hour, 
then  serve.  Mrs.  Dawson. 

SPANISH  CURRY 

Chop  finely  hits  of  left  over  meats,  preferably 
beef,  mutton  or  game,  with  one  or  two  Spanish  red 
peppers ;  make  a  hash  of  this  mixture ;  boil  1  cup  of 
rice:  fry  one  or  two  onions,  sliced  thinly,  in  bacon 
fat.  a  nice,  delicate  brown ;  make  a  curry  sauce  as 
follows :  1  cup  of  stock,  or  boiling  water ;  thicken 
with  1  tea  spoonful  of  flour  and  small  lump  of  but- 
ter ;  stir  all  until  it  conies  to  boiling  point,  then  re- 
move from  fire  to  back  of  range  to  keep  warm; 
toast  several  neatly  shaped  slices  of  bread  and 
place  on  serving  dish  or  platter ;  on  the  top  of  each 
piece  of  toast  put  a  spoonful  of  the  meat  mixture, 
covered  with  rice;  lastly,  turn  over  all  the  curry 
sauce  with  fried  onions,  and  send  to  table  hot. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Agxew,  Jr. 

SPAXISH  BUN 

Three-fourths  cup  butter ;  2  cups  brown  sugar ; 
1  cup  sour  milk;  2  cups  unsifted  flour;  4  eggs  (re- 
serve two  whites  i  ;  1  teaspoonful  soda ;  one-half 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg. 

Frosting 

Two  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff ;  6  tablespoons 
of  brown  sugar  beaten  into  whites;  one-half  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg;  spread  over 
cake  dough  and  bake  all  together  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  F.  T.  Wyman. 


COOK  BOOK 


181 


SPANISH  MACARONI 

One  lb.  macaroni;  one-half  pound  grated 
cheese;  1  qt.  tomatoes;  1  chopped  onion;  1  table- 
spoon flour;  put  macaroni  in  boiling  water  and  boil 
until  tender;  fry  the  chopped  onion  in  1  table- 
spoon hot  fat  until  brown  and  add  flour  and  let  it 
brown;  then  add  tomatoes  and  boil  until  it  thick- 
ens; season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  sugar  and  a 
pinch  of  cayenne ;  put  macaroni  in  baking  pan,  add 
cheese  and  sauce,  and  stir;  bake  in  moderate  oven 
one-half  hour.  Boiled  rice  may  be  used  instead  of 
macaroni.  Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Wyman. 

RICE  AND  TOMATOES— MEXICAN 

Soak  a  cupful  of  rice  until  it  swells  and  is 
rather  dry ;  chop  an  onion,  three  or  four  green  pep- 
pers and  four  good  sized  tomatoes;  mix  with  the 
rice  and  fry  in  a  hot  pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  until  the  rice  is  rather  brown ;  season  Avith 
salt  and  pepper ;  add  about  a  pint  of  hot  water  and 
cook  about  half  an  hour,  or  until  rice  is  well  done 
and  not  too  soggy ;  sometimes  cheese  is  grated  over 
just  before  serving.  Mrs.  F.  P.  King. 

SWEDISH  TIM  BALE  CASES. 

Mix  and  sift  three-fourths  cup  of  flour;  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt;  one-half  teaspoon  XX  sugar; 
beat  one  egg  slightly,  add  one-half  cup  of  milk, 
combine  ingredients  and  add  1  tablespoon  olive  oil ; 
shape  with  a  hot  timbale  iron,  and  fry  a  crisp 
brown.  Mrs.  Nourse. 

MEAT  BALLS  FOR  SOUP— MEXICAN 

The  meat  in  these  balls  may  be  veal  or  lamb, 
but  chicken  is  nicer;  chop  the  meat  of  a  small 
chicken  very  fine,  with  a  small  onion,  a  small  piece 
of  garlic  and  a  green  pepper  (no  seeds)  ;  then  add 


182 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


one  egg,  a  bit  of  butter,  some  salt,  a  generous  dash 
of  pepper  and  enough  flour  to  enable  the  mixture 
to  be  made  in  small  balls;  boil  at  least  1  hour  in 
the  soup;  they  are  sometimes  boiled  in  water  and 
eaten  as  a  meat  dish.  Mrs.  F.  P.  King. 

CHILE  eon  CARNE 

Is  the  every  day  and  all  year  round  dish  of  the 
fairly  well-to-do  laborer.  The  Chiles  proper  are 
the  little,  pointed,  bright  red  peppers.  The  seeds 
and  veins  are  removed.  The  peppers  are  scalded 
until  soft  and  then  they  are  either  cut  into  small 
bits  or  mashed  to  a  paste.  Cut  two  pounds  of  round 
steak  into  pieces  about  an  inch  equare,  and  fry 
broAvn  in  as  little  grease  as  possible;  prepare  10 
little  Chiles  in  paste  or  bits ;  chop  an  onion,  salt  the 
mixture  and  pepper  it  ;  add  enough  water  to  cover, 
and  stew  slowly  two  hours.    Mrs.  F.  P.  King. 

HOLLAND  BEE  AD 

Take  sugar  the  weight  of  five  eggs  and  stir 
with  five  eggs  for  half  an  hour;  add  one-half  cup 
thinly  cut  almonds,  raisins,  orange  peel  and  cit- 
ron; add  flour  the  weight  of  four  eggs;  bake  in 
bread  pan  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  L.  P.  Getjnbaum, 

FAMOUS  VIENNA  CUTLETS 

Take  rump  cutlets  and  pound  till  they  are  as 
thin  as  wafer,  salt  and  roll  in  flour;  dip  each  cutlet 
in  beaten  eggs,  then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot 
fat  till  brown. 

Mrs.  L.  P.  Qrunbaum. 

FEEXCH  OYSTER  SOUP 

Five  dozen  oysters;  put  them  with  their  juice 
and  one  glassful  of  white  wine  in  a  sauce  pan;  let 


COOK  BOOK 


183 


cook  till  firm;  remove  oysters  and  place  on  a  nap- 
kin to  dry  tliem  well;  pour  the  juice  through  a 
strainer,  add  one  quart  of  water  or  stock,  let  boil 
and  skim ;  when  ready  to  serve  beat  in  a  bowl  three 
egg  yolks,  one-half  glassful  of  cream,  3  tablespoons- 
ful  butter  and  add  to  stock;  then  pour  into  a  tu- 
reen over  the  oysters.  Mrs.  Dawson. 

ALPEN  BUTTER 

The  yolks  of  eight  eggs  stirred  for  half  an 
hour  with  eight  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  four  table- 
spoons flour,  and  the  beaten  whites  of  eight  eggs. 
Bake  in  slow  oven. 

Filling 

Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter  and  gradually  add 
to  this  (Avhen  cool)  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three- 
quarters  of  a  cup  of  rich  cream,  sugar  and  flavor- 
ing to  taste,  which  have  been  stirred  on  the  stove 
till  thickened.  Mrs.  L.  P.  Grunbaum. 

CANADIAN  SCRAPPLE 

Cook  two  pounds  each  of  beef  and  fresh  pork 
until  done;  then  take  from  the  fire  and  remove 
bones,  retaining  the  broth,  chop  meat,  return  to  the 
kettle  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  let  come  to 
a  boil,  stir  in  corn  meal  and  make  it  about  as  thick 
as  mush;  then  turn  into  pans;  when  cold  cut  in 
thin  slices  and  fry  as  mush  to  a  golden  brown. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Wood  worth. 

OJALDA 

Into  two  cupsful  of  flour  drop  the  yolk  of  one 
egg,  unbeaten;  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  lard; 
wet  with  salted  water  till  a  stiff  paste  is  formed; 
knead  well;  beat  full  of  blisters;  sprinkle  with  cin- 


184 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


namon;  roll  very  thin  and  cut  in  rounds;  fry  a 
light  brown  in  hot  deep  lard,  and  sift  powdered 
sugar  over  them  while  hot.  Crisp.  ( Spanish  dough- 
nuts). Mrs.  W.  H.  Eidenbaugh. 

MINCED  BEEF  a  la  BOUKGEOISE. 

Slice  hot  boiled  beef  quite  fine,  place  in  a  hol- 
low dish;  fry  1  chopped  onion  in  butter  five  min- 
utes, sprinkle  over  some  parsley  and  1  tablespoon 
flour;  stir  well  and  add  1  glassful  white  wine  and 
1  glassful  boiling  water;  let  boil  and  pour  over 
beef.    Two  pounds  of  beef  required. 

Mrs.  Dawson. 


COOK  BOOK 


185 


HINTS  FOR  PARTIES 


COFFEE  FOR  PARTIES. 

One  pound  coffee;  1  egg;  7  qts.  boiling  water; 
mix  coffee  and  egg  thoroughly;  put  in  coffee  sack, 
put  in  boiling  water  and  boil  slowly  until  strong 
as  wanted;  remove  sack;  keep  coffee  hot  until 
needed.  Louise  Eoff. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

One  large  chicken  with  celery  and  mayonnaise 
will  make  salad  for  twelve  persons. 

Louise  Eoff. 

CKEAMED  CHICKEN 

One  large  fowl  with  cream  and  mushrooms  will 
fill  about  15  timbale  shells.        Louise  Eoff. 

GRAPE  JUICE  PUNCH 

One  gallon  will  serve  thirty  persons  once 
around.  For  one  gallon:  Juice  of  10  lemons; 
one  and  a  half  pts.  granulated  sugar;  1  quart  of 
boiling  water ;  let  boil  until  clear ;  set  aside  to  cool ; 
one  qt.  bottle  grape  juice;  one  pt,  bottle  claret 
(good  without  claret);  put  all  in  can  in  freezer 
without  turning;  add  water  to  nearly  fill  1  gallon 
can;  pack  with  salt  and  ice;  let  remain  until  thor- 
oughly cold.  Louise  Eoff. 


186 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


PUNCH  FOE  WEDDINGS 

Juice  of  one  dozen  oranges;  juice  of  one  dozen 
lemons;  juice  of  3  cans  pineapple;  boil  in  1  pint  of 
Avater ;  s yrup  of  Avater  boiled  10  minutes  with  sugar 
to  taste ;  1  quart  of  tea ;  1  quart  of  brandy ;  1  quart 
of  rum;  one-half  quart  of  cordial;  divide  into 
fourths ;  use  one-fourth  with  3  quarts  of  champagne 
and  2  quarts  of  soda  (a  la  Tour)  in  punch  bowl 
with  large  pail  of  ice.  Mrs.  Cobb. 

MENU 

DINNER 

Caviar  on  toast  garnished  with  olives  and  lemon. 
Clear  soup — Pulled  bread 
Boiled  fish — Hollandaise 
Sauce — Cucumbers 
Crown  of  mutton — Currant  jelly  sauce. 
Mashed  potatoes,  Spinach  souffle 
Lettuce  Salad 
Crackers.    Bar  le  due  and  cream  cheese 
Angel  Parfait  Angel  food  cake 

Coffee 

Mrs.  Cobb. 


COOK  BOOK 


187 


POINTERS 


SUMMER  RULES  FOR  MAIDS 

When  setting  the  table  always  pour  the  water 
into  the  various  glasses  the  first  thing.  This  will 
give  it  a  chance  to  become  nice  and  warm  before  the 
family  sits  down. 

Never  turn  off  the  gas  when  a  burner  is  not  in 
use.  Otherwise  the  bills  would  be  reduced,  and  the 
kitchen  might  cool. 

Be  careful  not  to  keep  the  back  screen  door 
too  tightly  closed,  or  it  will  be  impossible  for  the 
flies  to  get  in.  What  is  the  kitchen  without  plenty 
of  flies? 

Always  leave  the  doors  of  the  ice  chest  open 
as  much  as  possible.  By  keeping  them  closed  the 
ice  and  raw  material  lasts  so  much  longer. 

Be  sure  always  to  have  Avater  melon  rinds, 
corn  husks  and  other  garbage  piled  up  in  a  corner 
of  the  sink.  This  adds  to  the  beauty  of  the  scene 
and  gives  the  atmosphere  a  pleasing  perfume. 

It  is  Avell  to  leave  the  butter  and  cream  on  top 
of  the  ice  chest  between  meals.  Why  are  ice  chests 
furnished  with  tops  if  they  are  not  to  hold  things. 

Always  cook  everything  in  the  house  at  once 
and  throw  away  what  is  left.  The  grocer's  boy  is 
paid  for  coming  around  often. 


188 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


CASCARILLA  CREAM 

Greta  prep.,  8  ounces;  glycerine,  1  ounce;  spir- 
its cologne,  aqua  pho,  of  each  quantity  sufficient 
to  make  1  pint.  This  is  a  good  lotion  for  the  face. 
Should  be  applied  with  a  soft  chamois  skin. 

Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen. 

FLOOR  POLISH 

Four  ounces  of  bees  wax;  1  quart  turpentine; 
piece  of  rosin  size  of  a  hickory  nut.  Cut  up  the 
beeswax  and  pound  the  rosin,  melt  them  together; 
take  them  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  a  quart  of  tur- 
pentine; rub  very  little  on  the  floor  with  a  piece  of 
flannel;  then  polish  with  dry  flannel  or  brush. 

Gertrude  L.  Hays. 

TO  TAKE  OUT  SCORCH 

If  any  article  has  been  scorched  in  ironing,  lay 
it  where  the  bright  sunshine  will  fall  directly  upon 
it.    It  will  take  it  entirely  out. 

TO  REMOVE  IRON  RUST 

Mix  fine  salt  and  cream  of  tartar  or  lemon 
juice,  moisten  with  water,  lay  on  stain  and  expose 
to  the  sun.    Repeat  application  if  necessary. 

In  putting  on  milk  to  boil  always  rinse  out 
the  sauce  pan  with  water.  This  will  prevent  the 
milk  from  burning. 

A  simple  Avay  to  remove  grass  stains  is  to 
spread  butter  on  them  and  lay  the  article  in  the 
hot  sunshine,  or  wash  in  alcohol. 

A  pitcher  of  cold  water  on  a  table  in  your 
room  does  much  to  purify  the  air. 

Open  canned  fruit  and  vegetables  one  hour  or 
so  before  needed.  It  is  richer  when  the  oxygen  is 
thus  restored. 


COOK  BOOK 


189 


Hot  vinegar  will  remove  paint  from  window 
glass. 

Stains  on  the  hands  can  be  removed  by  rub- 
bing with  salt  moistened  with  lemon  juice. 

Salt  will  curdle  new  milk;  hence  in  preparing 
gravies,  etc.,  the  salt  should  be  added  last. 

Perhaps  you  have  not  heard  that  if  milk  is  put 
into  a  cloudy  water  bottle,  vase,  vinegar  cruet,  etc., 
allowed  to  stay  until  it  is  thick  and  then  poured 
out,  the  dish  rinsed  in  cold  water  first  and  then 
cleaned  in  the  ordinary  way  all  stains  will  be  re- 
moved and  the  articles  will  look  new. 

To  remove  mildew  use  lemon  juice  and  sun- 
shine, or  if  from  long  standing,  soak  in  solution  of 
one  tablespoonful  of  chloride  of  lime  to  four  quarts 
of  water  until  it  disappears.  Rinse  several  times 
in  clear  water. 

A  few  tablespoons  of  turpentine  added  to  a 
bucket  of  water  will  prevent  the  daintiest  fabric 
from  fading. 

A  flannel  cloth  saturated  with  kerosene  will 
remove  roughness  and  discoloration  from  porce- 
lain lined  bathtubs  and  bowls. 

Wash  wringers  are  said  to  wear  longer  if 
wiped  over  with  cloth  saturated  with  kerosene 
each  week  before  setting  away. 

Add  a  few  drops  of  ammonia  to  the  water  in 
which  you  wash  your  hair  brush.  If  very  dirty, 
rub  a  little  soap  on;  after  cleaning  rinse  in  clear 
cold  water,  and  hang  up  to  dry. 

Fruit  or  wine  stains  can  be  removed  from 
Avhite  linen  by  holding  the  stained  spot  over  the 
fumes  of  a  burning  sulphur  match ;  then  spread 
the  linen  over  a  bowl  and  pour  a  large  quantity  of 


190 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


boiling  water  on  the  stain  and  wash  with  soap  as 
usual. 

To  remove  black  from  bottom  of  kettles:  Be- 
fore putting  a  kettle  directly  over  the  blaze,  grease 
with  lard,  then  the  black  will  be  removed  easily 
by  rubbing  with  paper  before  washing. 

To  clean  your  white  felt  hat  rub  well  with 
powdered  magnesia  and  leave  over  night;  brush 
well  the  next  morning  and  it  will  be  like  new. 

Artgum  is  good  for  cleaning  light  colored  kid 
gloves  and  shoes. 


COOK  BOOK 


W.  E.  PIERCE  &,  CO. 

The  Old  Reliable 

REAL  ESTATE 

DEALERS 


Potato  

Chips 

Select  large  size  potatoes,  pare  thin  and  be 
sure  and  slice  with  Universal  Vegetable  Slicer, 
as  good  results  cannot  be  obtained  without 
one.  Rinse  well  in  cold  water  then  drain  and 
fry  in  hot  lard  heated  on  a 

•.Jewel  Range., 

as  it  is  no  trouble  to  keep  an  even  heat  with 
a  Jewel  Stove  or  Range.  Universal  Vege- 
table Slicers  and  Jewel  Stoves  and  Ranges 
for  sale  at 

LOREE  &  SON 

HARDWARE  CO. 

909  Main  St.       Both  Phones.        Boise,  Idaho 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


F.  J.  ROFFEIS,  Pres.  and  Mgr.     J.  W.  KONRAD,  Vice  Pres.     C.  J.  C.  HAAS,  Secy,  and  Treas 


Is  Your  Kitchen  Plumbing  Modern? 

While  it  is  commendable  to  give  the  utmost 
attention  to  the  construction  of  your  bathroom, 
it  is  advisable  to  give  as  equally  good  attention  to  the  sanitary 
equipment  of  your  kitchen. 

Take  into  consideration  the  fact  that  all  your  food  is  prepared  in 
the  kitchen  and  that  the  utensils  in  which  it  is  prepared  depend  upon 

the  sanitary 
equipment  of 
the  kitchen 
f  o  r  their 
cleanliness. 
Is  this  fact 
alone  not  suf- 
ficient to  war- 
rant the  in- 
stallation of  a 
thoroughly 
sanitary  kit- 
chen sink  ? 

We  would 
like  to  exam- 
ine the  plumbing  in  your  kitchen  and  if  it  is  defective,  tell  you  the 
cost  of  putting  in  a  "£tftttda#d"  Porcelain  Enameled  Sink  with  an 
abundant  supply  of  hot  and  cold  running  water.  This  done, 
cleanliness  will  be  assured. 

Our  booklet,    ''Modern    Home  Plumbing/'  shows  several 
kitchens  equipped  with  "gfandrnd"  Sinks.      Call,  write  or  phone 
copy.     Every  "Hsftondatlfid"  Sink  is  fully  guaranteed. 

Liberty  Plumbing  &  Heating  Co.,  Ltd. 

1108  Main  St.  -  -  -  Boise,  Idaho 


COOK  BOOK 


VRY  OUR  PURE  FOOD 

Spices  and  Flavoring  Extracts 

There  is  none  better — the  price  is  little  more  than 
you  pay  for  inferior  kinds 

BALLOU-LATIMER  CO.,  Ltd. 

DRUGGIJTS 

Opposite  City  Hall        -         Boise,  Idaho 


Caldwell's  dry  fgoods 

and  Ladies'  Ready-to-Wear 

Ladies'  reliable  Undergarments  at  Caldwell's— W.  B.  Corsets 
at  Caldwell's— Cadet  Hose,  linen  heel,  toe  and  knee  at  Caldwell's 
— Ladies'  Notions  at  Caldwell's— Muslin  Underwear  at  Caldwell's 
—  Dress  Goods  and  Silks  at  Caldwell's — Furs  for  Ladies'  and 
Children  at  Caldwell's— New  Ideas  in  Shirt  Waists  at  Caldwell's 
—Buy  Dry  Goods  at  Caldwell's. 


R  t*i  "n  lr ?  q  SuPerior 

±JL  llllY  O  Chocolates, 
<j   .  Ice  Cream 

(3%  and 

Cakes 


Idaho  National  Bank 

Capital,  $100,000.00 

A  General  Banking  Business  Transacted. 
Interest  Paid  on  Time  Deposits. 

G.  W.  FLETCHER  President 

THOS.  MELLEN  Vice  President 

T.  J.  LeHANE  Cashier 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


Deposit  Boxes 

-IN  OUR  — 
{Burglar  'Proof       Fire  Proof 

VAULTS 


CAN  you  afford  to  risk 
your  valuable  pa- 
pers, jewels,  heir- 
looms, etc.,  to  fire  and 
burglar  when  $5.00  pays 
the  rental  of  a  box  in 
our  vault  for  twelve  I 
months? 

Access  at  any  time  and 
as  often  as  you  like  dur- 
ing business  hours. 


First  National  Bank 
of  Idaho 


COOK  BOOK 


Recipes  found  in  this  book  can  give  satis- 
faction only,  "when  the  best 
ingredients  are  used. 

For  Bread  and  Pastry  use  Victor  Flour— For 
cold  meats  use  Jno.  MorrelPs  Hams— For  salads 
use  The  Preferred  Stock  line  of  canned  goods 
—For  relishes  Heinz  Pickles— For  a  cup  of 
good  coffee  Our  AA  Brands. 

Beside  being  leaders  in  groceries  we  also  lead  in 
fresh  fruits,  fish  and  oysters.  A  specialty  made 
of  getting  unseasonable  goods  in  this  market  for 
parties,  dinners,  etc. 


PLOWHEAD'S 

Boise's  Leading  High  Grade  Grocery 

Bell  Phone  342  820  Idaho  St.  Ind.  Phone  169 


^Uhe  Best  Recipe  for  Good 
Cooking  Is 

Use  a  Superior  or  Monarch 

Steel  Range 


Sold  Exclusively  by  the 

EASTMAN  -  TELLER 

Hardware  Co. 
Corner  9th  &  Main  Streets 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


G.  M.  BRANNAN,  Mgr.  D.  C.  KEYES,  Sec.  &  Treas. 

Boise  Electrical  Supply  Co. 

Electrical  Engineers  and  Contractors 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Electrical 
Supplies  and  Fixtures. 

Conduit  Work   a  Specialty. 

Bell  Phone  85-Black.    Ind.  Phone  415.  611  Main  Street,  Boise,  Idaho 


THE    MAMMOTH  NATATORIUM 


,  % 

Iff*  ': 

Great  Swimming 
Plunge,  Vapor 
Baths  Etc. 

Are  worth  going  many 
miles  to  see,  but 
it  only  takes  10 
minutes  from  the 
business  center 
of  Boise. 
"Natatorium"  car 
goes  up  Warm  Avenue 
every  10  minutes 


In  one  United  States  gallon   231  inches 

Chloride  of  Sodium   0.9567  grains, 

Sulphate  of  Potassa   0.5938  grains, 

Sulphate  of  Soda....   1.5071  grains, 

Bicarbonate  of  Ammonia  Traces. 

Bicorbonate  of  Lithia   0.0793  grains, 

Bicarbonate  of  Soda  10,4109  grains, 

Bicarbonate  of  Lime   0.4606  grains, 

Bicarbonate  of  Magnesia   0.0383  grains, 

Phosphate  of  Soda  Traces. 

Oxide  of  Iron  and  Alumina   0.0916  grains, 

Silica   3.9248  grains, 

Organic  and  Volatile  Matter   16328  grains, 

19,6959 

Temperature  of  Water,  170  Degrees. 


Smacking  Good  STc^t 

-i-  ■   ■  Good  White,  Light  Bread,  Cookies 

I  ninC)S  and  Cakes  of  exquisite  lightness 
are  easily  made.  Simply  use  IMPERIAL  FLOUR, 
per  sack  $1.35.  We  are  headquarters  for  Staple 
Groceries,  Vegetables,  Meats,  Nuts,  etc. 

Buckeye  Grocery 


Chas.  Norwood  &  Co. 
7th  &  Main  St..  Boise 


COOK  BOOK 


A  VERY  COMMENDABLE  BOOK 
One  you  will  appreciate  for  years  to  come— 
when  looking  over  the  receipts  you  are  naturally 
enough  thinking  of  some  particular  dish  or  meal 
and  incidently  napkins,  linens,  etc.— and  lo!  nearly 
all  your  table  cloths  are  either  soiled  or  at  the 
laundry— or  you  are  short  some  pretty  squares  or 
doylies— All  this  can  be  nicely  adjusted  over  the 
phone  and  we  will  send  several  post  haste  that  you 
may  make  a  careful  selection  and  be  fully  prepared 
foryour  guests.— The  Golden  Rule  Store. 


Maltese  Cross  Olive  Oil 

Is  the  virgin  oil  expressed  from  the  finest 
olives  grown  in  the  world.  It  has  that  deli- 
cious nutty  flavor,  and  for  all  salads  it  is  su- 
perior to  any  other  olive  oil  in  the  market. 
Full  Pints  75c 

McCrum  &  DearyTtSiAg£ts 


L  JTheL 

Booth  Furniture 

Company,  Ltd. 

Carry  the  largest  and  choicest  stock  of 
Furniture,  Carvets,  Linoleums  and 
and  general  House  Furnishing  Goods  in 
the  state.  You  are  cordially  invited  to 
visit  our  store. 

822  and  824  IDAHO  STREET 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


Cook  With 

 Gas — 

Bread,  Pies  and  Cakes  just 
like  mother  used  to  make, 
only  better,  because  you 
can  so  perfectly  control  the 
oven  heat.  That  burned 
pastry  is  unknown. 

Old  way:— wood  hot; 
coal  hotter;  wet  wood  not 
near  hot  enough  then  too 
hot.  New  way : — Gas,  even 
heat  and  easily  controlled. 
No  worry,  no  dirt,  happy 
wife,  pleasant  home.  Try 
a  GAS  RANGE  and  see 
how  sweet  your  overworked 
housewife  will  become. 

The  Gas  Office 

Will  Gladly  Answer  About  Ranges 

11th  &,  Main  Streets 




COOK  BOOK 


Comfortable 
Heard  Mountings 

For  Eye  Glasses 

Easiest,  most  satisfactory 
mounting  made — We  are  sole 
agents.  We  are  prepared  to 
measure  the  most  complicated 
eye  troubles.  We  make  your 
glasses  in  our  own  factory. 
You  can  see  them  made  while 
you  wait. 

J.  T.  LAUGHLIN, 

Expert  Optometrist 
802  Main  St.  Boise 


Gem  State  Cream  Co. 

—  Limited 

MANUFACTURERS  AND  DEALERS 

Fancy  Ice  Creams 
Sherbets  and  Ices 

CREAM,  BUTTER  AND  BUTTER  MILK 

BOTH  PHONES  700.    9  10  GROVE  ST. 


If  Your  Bread  and  Cake 
Is  Not  Good 
Remove  the  Cause 
By  Using — 

Baker  Bros. 
High  Patent 
Flour 

Sold  on  a  guarantee  at  the 

STAR  GROCERY 

Baker  Bros.,  Props.    Sonna  Block 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


Preferred  Stock 

1  Preferred  Stock  | 

Canned  Fruits, 

Vegetables, 

JELLIES,  JAMS, 
Oysters,  Salmon, 
Olives,    Olive  Oil 

ALL  GOOD  GROCERS 
SELL  THEM 

COOK  BOOK 


P.  O.   Box  672 


The  Boise  Floral  Co., 

j    BELL  PHONE  400   |  |  |  "t  O  Cl      |    IND.  PHONE  330  | 

 Florists  and  Decorators  


Largest  growers  of  choice  cut  flowers  and  plants  in 
Idaho.    Ornamental  trees,  shrubs,  vines,  roses,  etc. 


GEO.  A.  KERR  MRS.  K.  D.  B.  KERR 

American  Laundry  Co. 

FOURTEENTH  AND  GROVE  STS. 
BOISE,  IDAHO 

Fine  Work  a  Specialty 


IND.  PHONE  141  BELL  PHONE  41 

A.  J.  SWAIN,  Pres.  and  Mgr.         J.  W.  EAGLESON,  Treas. 
E.  S.  SENSENIG,  Sec'y  and  Ass't  Mgr. 

Artificial  Ice 

Absolutely  Pure 

Sold  by 

Boise  Cold  Storage  Company,  Ltd. 

304  South  16th  St.,  Boise,  Ida. 

Bell  Phone  82  Ind.  Pnone  38 


Bayhouse  Floral  Co. 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealers  in 

Cut  Flowers  and  Plants 

Wedding  Boquets  and  'Decorations  a 
Specialty.    All  Kinds  of 
Funeral  Designs. 

Boise,        -  -        -  Idaho. 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


WE  are  living 
in  an  age  of 
wonderful 
achievements  and 
in  no  line  of  effort 
have  greater  im- 
provements been 
made  than  that  of 
laundering.  We 
have  the  most  up- 
to-date  and  com- 
plete laundry  plant 
in  Idaho  and  al- 
ways adopt  all  new 
ideas  that  prove  to  be  real  improvements. 


TROY  LAUNDRY 

Bell  Phone  810.     BOISE,  IDAHO.    Ind.  Phone  188. 


—  —   

— 

T 

Boise  Furniture  Co. 

-<^r~^— _  ^ana^       908  Main  St. 

_ 

1 

I  II             ILli             II  li          '  il  l 

COOK  BOOK 


Whitehead's 


Drug  Store= 

Headquarters  for 

Meyer  Bros.  "Pure  Food"  Powdered 

SPICES 

Bought  direct  from  the  grinders  and  guaranteed 
full  strength  and  absolutely  pure.  Ask  for  our 
own  Flavoring  Extracts  in  bulk. 

W.  S.  Whitehead, 

Captitol  Hotel  Block,  Boise,  Idaho 


rr  % 

Boise  Merc.  Co.,  Ltd. 

712  IDAHO  ST.  -  -  BOISE,  IDAHO 

Quality  First,  I&ward 
Not  How  Cheap,  low 

x  GOOD 

ARE  OUR  MOTTOS 

A  first  grade  article  does  not  cost  as  much 
more  than  a  poor  one  as  many  think  at  first 
glance.  Looking  to  net  results  a  first  class 
article  is  cheaper  than  the  inferior  AT  ANY 
PRICE. 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


INDEX  ... 


B 

BREAD,  ROLLS,  Etc.— 

Brown   Bread— Mrs.   Tipton   137 

Brown  Bread— Mrs.  A.  W.  Beck   137 

Boston  Brown  Bread— Mrs.  W.  Keeffe    138 

Boston  Brown  Bread — Mrs.  Savidge   138 

Baking  Powder  Tea  Rolls— Mrs.  J.  D.  Agnew   141 

Beaten  Biscuits— Mrs.  E.  S.  Hinks...   142 

Bread  Sticks— Mrs.  J.  M.  Haines   145 

Brown  Nut  Bread— Mrs.  Jas.  A.  Hays   136 

Corn  Bread— Mrs.  R.  S.  Shaw  1   138 

Corn  Bread— Mrs.  S.  H.  Hays   139 

Cream  Muffins— Mrs.  E.  S.  Hinks   143 

Cream  Scones — Miss  O'Conner   145 

French  Pancakes — Mrs.  L.  Logan   144 

Graham  Gems — Mrs.  J.  K.  Loree   140 

Hot  Cakes— Mrs.  E.  S.  Hamaker   144 

Irish  Biscuits — Mrs.  Thos.  Davis   140 

Johnny  Cake    138 

Muffins— Mrs.  Willard  F.  White...:   142 

Muffins— Mrs.  L.  Logan   143 

Mush  Biscuits — Mrs.  L.  Logan   145 

Parker  House  Rolls — Miss  Long   141 

Parker  House  Rolls— Mary  A.  Holliday   141 

Pancakes— Mrs.  S.  M.  Blandford  144 

Rice  Waffles— Mrs.  J.  M.  Johnson   146 

Salt  Rising  Bread— Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen   136 

Steamed  Brown  Bread — Lucy  E.  Nourse   137 

Spider  Corn  Cake— Mrs.  J.  T.  Laughlin   139 

Southern  Aunties'  Biscuits — Mrs.  Wise   142 

Sour  Milk  Muffins— Mrs.  E.  W.  Johnson   143 

Sticks — Mrs.  Edwin  Hinks  143 

Steamed  Brown  Bread— Mrs.  H.  N.  Coffin   137 

White  Bread   135 

White  Bread— Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer    135 

Whole  Wheat  Gems— Mrs.  J.  D.  Agnew   140 

Waffles   146 


COOK  BOOK 


BEVERAGES  - 

Chocolate — Mrs.  J.  A.  Hays   161 

Coffee    161 

Cocoa — Miss  Long    162 

Egg  Nog    164 

Grape  Nectar   163 

Iced  Coffee — Lucy  E.  Nourse  ^   162 

Orange  Phosphate   f   162 

Lemonade— Mrs.  McCrum    163 

Mulled  Grape  Juice  or  Claret— Mrs.  Beatty.fT   163 

Raspberry  Shrub    162 

Roman  Punch — Winifred  C.  Deary   164 

Tea    162 

Unfermented  Grape  Juice — Gertrude  L.  Hays   164 

c 

CAKES- 

Brown  Fig — Louise  Johnson    Ill 

Dried  Apple— Effie  G.  Paling....'   112 

Dried  Apple,  plain — Mrs.  Samuel  H.  Hays.'.   112 

English  Fruit— Mrs.  A.  W.  Beck  ,   Ill 

Fruit,  20  pounds— Mrs.  Crutcher   109 

Fruit — Mrs.  Forshay    Ill 

Fig    112 

Mrs.  Crutcher's  Fruit  Cake   110 

Nut  Fruit— Mrs.  C.  C.  Anderson .  .  .  :   110 

Pound— Mrs.  Jos.  Pinkham   108 

Pound— Mrs.  A.  Rossi  '   109 

Six  Egg  Cake— Mrs.  A.  Rossi   109 

Devil's  Food— Mrs.  R.   S.   Shaw   123 

Spice — Mrs.  Houston    123 

Nut  Loaf— Mrs.  Louise  Eoff   123 

Chocolate— Mrs.  L.  Logan.. ".   124 

Brandy  Nut— Winifred  C.  Deary   124 

Brown  Nut — Mrs.  J.  D.  Agnew   125 

Pork— Mrs.  Geo.  E.  Paddock   125 

Rocky  Mountain— Mrs.  Geo.  Wise   126 

Nut  Filling— Mrs.  J.  M.  Haines    126 

Caramel  Cake  Filling— Mrs.  Stewart    126 

Chocolate  Icing— Mrs.  S.  H.  Hays   126 

Caramel  Icing — Mrs.   Pierce   127 

Milk  Icing— Mrs.  Pierce   127 

Boiled  Frosting— Mrs.  E.  H.  Maberly   127 

Chocolate  Filling— Mrs.  R.  H.  Johnson   127 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


Coffee  Filling— Mrs.  Emily  Davis   127 

Angel  Filling— Mrs.  L.  Logan   128 

German  Apple — Mrs.  Cohen   128 

White  Pound— Mrs.  J.  F.  Ailshie   128 

Potato— Mrs.  0.  V.  Allen  /   113 

Fruit  Cup— S.  Belle  Chamberlain   113 

Blackberry— Mrs.  R.  S.  Shaw   113 

Hickory  Nut— Mrs.  Rossi   113 

Spice— Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart   114 

Just  Lovely— Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal   114 

Fig— Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal   114 

Mother  Roberts'  Sponge  Cake   115 

Variety  Cake— Mrs.  H.  J.  Roan   115 

Sponge — Mrs.  Ross  Cartee   115 

Buttermilk    115 

Plain  Cup— Mrs.  Witham   115 

White— Mrs.  Tipton   116 

White— Mrs.  Aikman    116 

Sunshine — Mrs.  Tipton    117 

Tilden— Mrs.  W.  E.  Pierce.  .  .  *   117 

Angel  Food— Mrs.  Beck    117 

Angel  Food — Mrs.  Loree    117 

Angel— Mrs.  E.  H.  Maberly.  .  .   117 

Tutti  Fruti— Mrs.  C.  L.  Sweet   118 

Marble— Mrs.  A.  W.  Beck   118 

Orange    118 

Orange— Mrs.  Max  Hirsch   119 

New  England  Layer — Mrs.  Geo.  Wise   119 

Fresh  Apple— Mrs.  L.  Logan   119 

Orange  Sponge — Mrs.  Cobb   120 

Sponge — Mrs.  Tipton    120 

Velvet  Sponge— Mrs.  A.  W.  Beck   121 

Buttermilk— Mrs.  L.  Logan   121 

Cream — Mrs.  Roan    121 

Chocolate— Mrs.  Tipton    122 

Chocolate  Caramel — Mrs.  Forshay   122 

Brown — Mrs.  J.  H.  Hawley   123 

CAKES— Small— 

Bangor  Brownies — Harriet  O'Connor    104 

Cookies — Catherine  Moore    102 

Cookies — Mrs.  Forshay    102 

Cookies — Mrs.  J.  W.  Morten    103 

Cottage  Pudding— Mrs.  W.  H.  Dunton   105 


COOK  BOOK 


Cream  Puffs— Mrs.  C.  K.  McCrum  105 

Doughnuts— Mrs.  C.  K.  McCrum   106 

Doughnuts— Mrs.  A.  Holliday   107 

Doughnuts — Mrs.  Geo.  PI.  Stewart   107 

Doughnuts— Mrs.  Tipton    107 

Ginger  Bread— Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen   105 

Ginger  Bread — Mrs.  E.  W.  Johnson   105 

Macaroons — Mrs.  Thos.  Davis   106 

Marguerites— Mrs.  Geo.  Wise   106 

Nut  Cookies— Mrs.  C.  F.  Pike   102 

Oatmeal  Cakes— Mrs.  A.  Eoff   103 

Oatmeal  Cookies— Mrs.  C.  C.  Anderson...   104 

Peanut  Cookies    103 

Rocks— Mrs.  Forshay    103 

Soft  Gingerbread— Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart   106 

CHEESE- 

Cheese  Balls— Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen   76 

Cottage    77 

Escalloped— Mrs.  M.  D.  Lovell   76 

Fondu— Mrs.  M.  D.  Lovell   75 

Fanny  Bloomfield-Ziesler's — Mrs.  N.  M.  Perkins..  77 

Golden  Fleece— Miss  Tage    77 

Jelly— Mrs.  N.  M.  Perkins   75 

Souffle — Clementine  Seller    76 

Straws— Mrs.  W.  H.  Dunton   77 

CHAFING  DISHES- 

Chocolate  Creams    170 

Creamed  Chicken — Mrs.  Jones    166 

Curried  Oysters — Marguerite  N.  Lemp   168 

Fig  Panoche — Laurina  Sonna    170 

Eggs  with  Cheese— Mrs.  J.  C.  Davis   166 

Eggs,  a  la  Italienne    166 

Lobster,  a  la  Hollandaise — Mrs.  Lemp   165 

Lobster,  a  la  Newberg— Mrs.  J.  M.  Haines   167 

Lobster,  a  la  Poulette— Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen   168 

Marsh  Mallows— Elizabeth  Hays  168 

Pan  Roast    169 

Panoche— Mrs.  C.  C.  Anderson    169 

Panned  Oysters    167 

Fondant  Cream    170 

Risotto — Mrs.  Bradley  Sheppard    167 

Saute  of  Kidney — Mrs.  Bradley  Sheppard   167 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


Sardines,  a  la  Sterneau   166 

Saute  Bananas— Mrs.  W.  H.  Dunton   170 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Tomatoes — Mrs.  S.  J.  Jones.  .  169 

Welsh  Rarebit— A.  Sonna    165 

E 

ENTREES 

Broiled  Veal  Kidney — Mrs.  Dawson   41 

Chicken  Croquettes— Mrs.  E.  M.  Hoover   39 

Calves  Brains— Mrs.  W.  B.  Williamson...   39 

Creamed  Oysters— Mrs.  F.  R.  Coffin   42 

Calves  Liver  and  Bacon   .•   43 

Croquettes— Mrs.   M.   H.    Coffin   45 

Chicken  Croquettes    44 

Cream  Sauce — Miss  L.  Long   43 

Fritters — Mrs.  Leonard  Logan   40 

Fish  and  Macaroni  Scallop — Mrs.  Louise  Eoff   39 

Meat  Croquettes— Mrs.  Cobb   44 

Nut  Croquettes— Mrs.  C.  B.  Hurtt   43 

Potato  Dumplings — Mrs.  A.  Rossi   42 

Rice  Fritters— Mrs.  E.  M.  Hoover   44 

Salmon  in  Mold— Mrs.  E.  M.  Hoover   41 

Sweetbreads— Mrs.  C.  O.  Ballou   42 

Sweetbread  Croquettes — Mrs.  L.  Logan   42 

EGGS— 

Boiled— Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer   59 

Breakfast— Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer   61 

Creamed— Mrs.  J.  H.  Lynch   60 

A  la  Creme — Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer   60 

Gems — Mrs.  Williams                                          .  .  61 

Golden  Rod  on  Toast— Mrs.  W.  B.  Williamson   62 

In  Tomatoes — Miss  Cox   61 

On  Toast— Airs.  W.  B.  Williamson   60 

Omelet,  Tomato  Sauce — Carrie  C.  Twogood   62 

Omelet,  Ham    62 

Omelet — Mrs.  Leonard  Logan   63 

Poached    59 

Rumpled — Mrs.  Williams   60 

Shirred— Miss  Cox    60 

Swiss — Mrs.  Holman    61 


COOK  BOOK 


F 

FISH- 


Baked  Shad  or  Halibut— Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal   23 

Baked  Crab— Mrs.  L.  P.  Grunbaum...'   23 

Breaded  Fish— Mrs.  M.  C.  Ustick    25 

Boiled  Salmon— Mrs.  M.  C.  Ustick   25 

Baked  Salmon,  Spanish — Mrs.  Charles  Kingsley.  ...  25 

Court  Boullion  (   18 

Codfish  Balls— Mrs.  M.  C.  Ustick.  .  .'   25 

Deviled  Crab— Mrs.  D.  J.  Cohen   24 

Deviled  Crab— Mrs.  C.  O.  Ballou   24 

Fish  Turbot— Winifred  C.  Deary   20 

Fish  Roll— Lena  Shoup   21 

Fried  Oysters — Mrs.  John  Rader.  .  .   27 

Fish  Turbot— Mrs.  George  Clithero   21 

Finnan  Haddie — Winifred  C.  Deary   23 

Halibut  with  Dutch  Sauce— Mrs.  M.  E.  Ustick....  26 

Lobster  Chops— Mrs.  Cobb   24 

Oyster  Cocktail— Mrs.  Louise  Eoff   26 

Oyster  Cocktail— Mrs.  S.  M.  Blandford   26 

Steamed  Fish— Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal   22 

Steamed  Salmon — Mrs.  C.  C.  Anderson   22 

Salmon  Turbot— Mrs.  D.  D.  Williams   21 

Salmon  Souffle— Mrs.  Beatty  '.   20 

Stuffing  for  fish    20 

FROZEN  DAINTIES— 

Cranberry  Frappe — Mrs.  Twiggs   132 

Coffee  Sauce  for  Ice  Cream    133 

Frappe— Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart    132 

Frozen  Peaches — Miss  Tage    134 

Lemon  Ice — Mrs.  J.  H.  Richards   132 

Maple  Mousse— Mrs.  Perky   *   130 

Mint  Punch— Mrs.  N.  M.  Perkins   131 

Maple  Bisque— S.  Belle  Chamberlin    131 

Mousse    132 

Milk  Sherbet— Mrs.  Frank  Nourse  ■   134 

Neapolitan  Ice  Cream — Mrs.  A.  L.  Richardson....  133 

Parfait—  Mrs.  John  T.  Morrison   130 

Pineapple  Sherbet    131 

Pineapple  Cream — Mrs.  Fraser   131 

Raspberry  Sherbet — Mrs.  Grunbaum    130 

Sultana  Roll— Harriet  O'Conner   131 

White  Velvet  Sherbet— Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen .   133 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


FOREIGN  DISHES— 


Alpen  Butter— Mrs.  L,  P.  Grunbaum   183 

Canadian  Scrapple — Mrs.  C.  R.  Woodworth    183 

Chicken,  Spanish — Mrs.  Dawson   179 

Chile  con  Carne— Mrs.  F.  P.  King   182 

French  Oyster  Soup — Mrs.  Dawson   182 

Holland  Bread— Mrs.  L.  P.  Grunbaum   182 

Hot  Tamales— Mrs.  K.  I.  Perky    179 

Mexican  Meat  Balls— Mrs.  F.  P.  King   181 

Mexican  Rice  and  Tomatoes — Mrs.  F.  P.  King....  181 

Minced  Beet — Mrs.  Dawson   184 

Noodles— M.  Heuschkel   .   178 

Noodles  for  Soup — Lena  Fong  !   178 

Ojalda— Mrs.  W.  H.  Ridenbaugh  Y.   183 

Spanish  Chicken— Mrs.  M.  E.  Ridenbaugh.  .\   179 

Spanish  Curry— Mrs.  J.  D.  Agnew   180 

Spanish  Bun— Mrs.  F.  T.  Wyman   180 

Spanish  Macaroni — Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Wyman   181 

Swedish  Timbale  Cases— Mrs.  Nourse   181 

Vienna  Cutlets— Mrs.  L.  P.  Grunbaum   182 

H 

HINTS  FOR  PARTIES - 

Chicken  Salad— Mrs.  Louise  Eoff   185 

Creamed  Chicken— Mrs.  Louise  Eoff..   185 

Grape  Juice  Punch— Mrs.  Louise  Eoff   185 

Menu— Mrs.  Cobb  <   186 

Punch  for  Weddings— Mrs.  Cobb...   186 

J 

JELLIES,  ETC— 

Canning  Fruit— Miss  Long    147 

Currant  Jelly— Mrs.  K.  I.  Perky....   148 

Citron  Preserves — Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer   150 

Chipped  Pears— Mrs.  J.  T.  Morriscon   151 

Candied  Orange  Peel— Mrs.  S.  H.  Hays   153 

Conserve — Mrs.  Joy  153 

Currant  or  Cherry  Conserve— H.  J.  A   154 

Cold  Chili  Sauce— Mrs.  J.  T.  Morrison   154 

Chili  Sauce— Mrs.  Houston   154 

Chili  Sauce— Mrs.  Morrow    155 

Chow  Chow — Mrs.  C.  Adams   155 

Chow  Chow,  uncooked — Mrs.  J.  B.  Morrow  156 


COOK  BOOK 


Cucumber  Pickles  (uncooked) — Mrs.  E.  Wyman..  157 

Dill  Pickles— Mrs.  E.  Cohen   157 

Fresh  Cucumber  Pickles — Mrs.  Chas.  Chrisman .  .  .  .  160 

Grape  Jam — Mrs.  Ridenbaugh    149 

Ginger  Pears — Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer   149 

Green  Tomato  Pickle— Catherine  Moore  156 

Green  Tomato  Soy— Mrs.  Tipton   157 

Jellies — Miss  Anna  Long   147 

Mixed  Pickles— Mrs.  A.  Rossi    158 

Mustard  Pickles — Mrs.  Kinyon  .  .  .   159 

Orange  Marmalade — Abigail  L.  Robb   149 

Orange  Marmalade — Mrs.  L.  Logan   150 

Orage  Marmalade — Mrs.  C.  C.  Anderson   150 

Oil  Pickles— Miss  O'Connor    160 

Pineapple  Jelly    148 

Pickled  Cherries,  sweet — Airs.  C.  E.  Chrisman....  151 

Pickled  Cherries    152 

Pickled  Green    Tomatoes    and    Cucumbers — Mrs. 

Picalilli— Mrs.  W.  E.  Pierce..'   155 

Charles  Adams    158 

Pear  Conserve— Mrs.  M.  D.  Lovell   152 

Peach  Pickles — Catherine  Moore   153 

Red  Raspberry  Jelly— Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer   148 

Rhubarb  Marmalade — Mrs.  L.  Logan   149 

Spiced  Cherries — Mrs.  A.  EofT   151 

Spiced  Prunes  or  Peaches — Mrs.  Stewart   152 

Spiced  Gooseberries — Mrs.  Joy    153 

Shirley  Sauce — Mrs.  Bradley  Sheppard   157 

Tutti  Frutti— H.  J.  A   154 

Tomato  Higdom— Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart   158 

Tomato  Catsup — Mrs.  Morrow    159 

Water  Melon  Pickles— Mrs.  J.  B.  Morrow   160 

Yellow  Tomatoes,  preserved   151 

M 

MEATS— 

Beef  Loaf— Mrs.  Sarah  S.  Long   31 

Beefsteak  Rolls— Mrs.  Sarah  Coffin   31 

Crown  Roast  of  Lamb — Harriet  O'Conner   29 

Chicken  with  Noodles— Mrs.  M.  H.  Coffin   33 

Chicken  Terrapin — Mrs.  A.  L.  Richardson   35 

Chicken,  Fried— Dolly  Twitchell   35 

Chicken,  Smothered — Mrs.  L.  Logan   34 

Chicken  Pie— Mrs.  L.  D.  Allred   32 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


Hams,  to  pickle — Georgia  T.  Yates.   32 

Mock  Duck— Mrs.  E.  M.  Hoover   31 

Meat  Balls— Mrs.  E.  T.  Wells  ,   32 

Pork  or  Lamb  Chops    32 

Pot  Roast— Mrs.  Roan   30 

Pot  Roast— Mrs.  William  Bryon   30 

Rissoles  of  Cold  Meat— Mrs.  Roan   32 

Roast  Duck — Mrs.  Ridenbaugh   33 

Scrappel — Mrs.  L.  Logan   34 

Veal  Loaf— Mrs.  Winifred  C.  Deary   31 

P 

PASTRY - 

Apple  Pie— Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart   99 

Cream  Pie — Louise  Johnson    93 

Cream  Pie— Mrs.  F.  Nourse   93 

Cocoanut  Pie    94 

Chess  Pie — Marguerite  Allen    94 

Chocolate  Pie— Mrs.  M.  D.  Lovell   95 

Chocolate  Pie— Mrs.  C.  W.  Purcell   95 

Date  Pie— Luella  Marcellus    98 

Lemon  Pie — Mrs.  S.  J.  Jones   96 

Lemon  Pie — Mrs.  Williams    96 

Lemon  Pie— Mrs.  R.  H.  Johnson    97 

Mince  Meat— Mrs.  D.  W.  Springer   100 

Mince  Meat— Mrs.  Forshay    100 

Mince  Meat  Recipe— Mrs.  J.  H.  Hawley   101 

Pumpkin  Pie    97 

Pumpkin  Pie— Mrs.  Williams    97 

Raisin  Pie— Mrs.  H.  B.  Bryan   98 

Raisin  Pie— Mrs.  Tipton  '.  .  98 

Sour  Cream  Pie— Mrs.  Frank  Coffin   95 

Sour  Cream  Pie— Mrs.  S.  H.  Hays   95 

Squash  Pie— Mrs.  Frank  Coffin   97 

Strawberry  Pie— Mrs.  R.  S.  Shaw   99 

PUDDINGS- 

Amber— Mrs.  J.  D.  Cohen   79 

Bavarian  Cream— Mrs.  W.  T.  Booth   79 

Bread— Mrs.  Williams    81 

Black  Pudding— Mrs.  Nixon   84 

Baked  Indian— Mrs.  Savidge   88 

Baked  Indian — Luella  Marcellus   88 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange — Mrs.  Houston   81 


COOK  BOOK 


Cake  Crumb — Mrs.  Tipton    82 

Crumb — Mrs.  Forshay    82 

Cherry  Snow— Mrs.  A.  W.  Beck   84 

Cranberry — Mrs.  G.  Clithero   85 

Cup  Custards— Georgia  T.  Yates   79 

Corn  Starch  Blanc  Mange — Mrs.  A.  F.  Long   80 

Chocolate— Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart   80 

Date— Mrs.  C.  C.  Anderson   86 

Fancy — Mrs.  Grunbaum   .  .  .  .  ;   82 

Fruit  Dumplings — Mrs.  C.  W.  Purcell   84 

Fig— Mrs.  H.  M.  Regan   86 

Honeycomb — Mrs.  Samuel  H.  Hays   87 

Hard  Sauce   96 

Lemon  Meringue — Mrs.  W.  H.  Ridenbaugh   78 

Lemon  Sauce — Mrs.  Long   92 

Lemon  Puffs— Mrs.  Walter  Keeffe   91 

Orange  Charlotte— Mrs.  H.  M.  Regan   83 

Orange  Pudding— Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen   83 

Pineapple  Cream — Mrs.  Tipton   78 

Prune  Whip — Mrs.   Stephenson   81 

Peach  Pudding — Mrs.  J.  M.  Johnson   83 

Prune— Mrs.  Tipton    85 

Peach  Cup— Mrs.  Tipton    86 

Plum— Mrs.  R.  Aikman   87 

Rice— Luella  Marcellus    80 

Raisin  Puffs— Mrs.  F.  Nourse   91 

Snow— Mrs.  R,  S.  Shaw   80 

Steamed— Mrs.  G.  W.  Bruce   85 

Suet— Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart   87 

Steamed  Fruit — Mrs.  Savidge   88 

Sweet  Potato — Mrs.  Forshay   91 

Sauce— Mrs.  Purcell    92 

Strawberry  Sauce — Mrs.  Purcell   92 

Tapicoa  Cream— Mrs.  W.  H.  Gibson   78 

s 

SOUPS— 

Brown  Bannock — Mrs.  M.  E.  Ridenbaugh   8 

Cream  of  Celery — Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart   8 

Clam  Boullion — Marguerite  Nolan  Lemp...   9 

Corn — Mrs.  Dawson   10 

Bisque  of  Oyster— Mrs.  M.  C.  Ustick   10 

Cream  Satin— Mrs.  M.  E.  Ridenbaugh   11 

Cream  of  Tomato— Mrs.  C.  O.  Ballou   11 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


Cream  of  Salmon — Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Stewart   13 

Cream  of  Rice — Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal   13 

Celery— Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal                                      .  14 

Codfish  Chowder — Mrs.  Collister   14 

Corn  Chowder — Mrs.  Geo.  Wise   14 

Clam  Chowder — Mrs.  Leonard  Logan   16 

Dumpling — Laurina  Sonna    15 

Louisiana  Gumbo — Mrs.  G.  H.  Hackett   16 

Mushroom — Mrs.  Geo.  Redway   9 

Mushroom — Mrs.  Twiggs   10 

Noodle   15 

Onion — Mrs.  Calvin  Cobb   9 

Oxtail— Mrs.  W.  B.  Williamson   12 

Potato— Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen   12 

Tomato— Mrs.  Frank  Coffin   11 

Tomato — Mrs.  Savidge  ,   11 

Tomato— Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal   11 

Tomato— Mrs.  D.  D.  Williams   12 

Tomato  Boullion— Mrs.  F.  B.  Kinyon   12 

Tapioca  Cream— Mrs.  T.  E.  Logan    16 

SAUCES— 

Hollandaise— Mrs.  Beatty    36 

Horseradish — Mrs.  Leonard  Logan    38 

Liver  and  Lemon — Mrs.  Leonard  Logan   37 

Mushroom— Mrs.  Leonard  Logan   38 

Potato  Stuffing— Mrs.  W.  Ridenbaugh   37 

Sauce  for  Fish— Mrs.  M.  C.  Ustick   37 

White  Sauce      36 

SALADS  - 

Aspic  Jelly    74 

Beet — Mrs.  Mariner    66 

Chicken — Mrs.  W.  D.  Springer   64 

Chicken— Mrs.  J.  H.  Lynch   64 

Cherry — Mrs.  Cox    66 

Cauliflower— Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal   67 

Cabbage— Mrs.  J.  M.  Haines   68 

Cheese  and  Celery— Mrs.  H.  B.  Bryan   69 

Cauliflower— Mrs.  PI.  B.  Bryan   69 

Cream  Dressing    73 

Daisy— Mrs.  Mitchell    65 

Dressing,  to  utilize  Eggs — Mrs.  Hoover   71 

Dressing,  without  Oil — Mrs.  Cartee   72 


COOK  BOOK 


Fruit — Mrs.  Jas.  Hays   65 

French — Mrs.  M.  E.  Ridenbaugh    68 

Fruit— Mrs.  A.  P.  Wilson   71 

French  Dressing — Mrs.  J.  D.  Agnew   73 

Grape— Mrs.  Ustick    67 

Lobster — Mrs.  Kinyon    65 

Metropolitan — Mrs.  J.  H.  Richards   68 

Mayonnaise — Louise  Johnson    73 

Mayonnaise — Mrs.  L.  Logan   74 

Oyster— Mrs.  Ustick    67 

Pear  and  Nut— Mrs.  Miller   64 

Potato— Mrs.  D.  D.  Williams   66 

Potato,  Cream  Dressing — Georgia  T.  Yates   66 

Roosevelt — Mrs.  Nourse    67 

Salmon — Miss  Cox    65 

Shrimp,  in  tomato  cup — Mrs.  O.  V.  Allen   69 

Sour  Cream  Dressing — Mrs.  M.  E.  Ridenbaugh ....  72 

Tomato— Mrs.  Carol  L.  Sweet   67 

Tomato  Jelly— Mrs.  Ustick   70 

Tomato— Mrs.  H.  E.  Neal   70 

Veal— Mrs.  A.  P.  Wilson   71 

Waldorf— Mrs.  A.  W.  Beck   69 

SANDWICHES- 

Anchovy  : . .   175 

Astoria   175 

Beef    172 

Boston    175 

Candied  Cherries    174 

Celery    171 

Cheese   174 

Chicken   172 

Chicken  Liver   173 

.    Club  House    172 

Cucumber    171 

Eastern  Oysters,  fried    175 

Egg    171 

Fig  Canopies   176 

Ham   173 

Lettuce   175 

Lobster   176 

Nasturtium   172 

"Pate  de  Foie  Gras"  (Mock)   176 

Pecan    173 


COLUMBIAN  CLUB 


Peanut    174 

Peanut  Butter    173 

Sweetbread    174 

Salmon    174 

Salted  Almonds    177 

Sardine    171 

Shrimp    176 

Tomato   172 

Walnut   k   173 

V 

VEGETABLES  - 

Brunette  Potatoes — Mrs.  Charles  Purcell    49 

Baked  Beans— Effie  G.  Paling   50 

Baked  Beans— Mrs.  C.  W.  Purcell   50 

Baked  Tomatoes    53 

Baked  Tomatoes    54 

Cronstades — Harriet  O'Conner    58 

Creamed  Potatoes    47 

Creamed  Potatoes — Mrs.  Calvin  Cobb   48 

Creamed  Carrots — Mrs.  Balderston   50 

Creamed  Onions — Mrs.  Meholin   52 

Creamed  Cauliflower    53 

Cabbage,  au  gratin — Mrs.  Geo.  Redway   56 

Cabbage,  with  Cream  Sauce— Mrs.  M.  P.  Meholin . .  56 

Escalloped  Potatoes — Georgia  T.  Yates   48 

Escalloped  Onions — Mrs.  Haines   51 

Egg  Plant  and  Cheese— Mrs.  E.  C.  Cook   55 

Ellen's  Hot  Slaw— Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Roberts   57 

Fried  Egg  Plant    54 

Macaroni,  Cheese  and  Tomatoes — Mrs.  W.  B.  Wil- 
liamson   55 

Macaroni,  baked — Mrs.  Pierce   55 

Macaroni  and  Creese — Miss  Tage   56 

Potato,  au  gratin — Marguerite  Nolan  L,emp   47 

Potato,  au  gratin — Mrs.  Beatty   47 

Potato  Chips — Mrs.  Loree   48 

Potato  Croquettes,  stuffed— Mrs.  J.  M.  Haines   49 

Parsnips   57 

Swedish  Timbales— Mrs.  W.  H.  Gibson   57 

Stewed  Cabbage— Mrs.  W.  H.  Gibson   57 

Sauce  for  Spaghetti — Mrs.  Calvin  Cobb   54 

Spinach — Mrs.  M.  P.  Meholin   54 

Sweet  Potato,  Southern  style — Mrs.  R.  H.  Johnson  49 

Sweet  Potato — Mrs.  Pierce   50 

Sweet  Potato,  baked— Mrs.  Geo.  E.  Paddock   50 

Scalloped  Onions — Mrs.  J.  M.  Johnson   51 

Stuffed  Onions— Mrs.  N.  M.  Perkins   51 

Stuffed  Peppers — Marguerite  Nolan  Eemp   52 


ERRATA:  On  page  115,  an  error  occurs  in  the  recipe  for 
"Variety  Cake."    It  should  read: 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half 
cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  baking  powder; 
to  one-half  of  this  add  one-half  teaspoonful  cinnamon  and  all- 
spice each,  and  one  cup  of  raisins.  Bake  whole  cake  in  two  tins 
and  put  together  with  any  desired  frosting. 

Mrs.  H.  J.  Roan. 


1 


