Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  Hbrary  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


I 


The  Arthur  and  Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER  LIBRARY 

on  the  History  of  Women 

in  America 

RADCLIFFE  COLLEGE 


Gift  of 
Robert  D.   Brrwne 


/ 

/ 


^  L<^2,^l>t^ 


j^/i^  ^.;^^^^r^ 


/     ^l^^X^tA^  //. 


/<r?f 


MARION    HARLAND'S   WORKS. 

The  Cottage  Kitchen,       .  .100 

Common  Sense  in  the  Household,  i  50 

Breakfast,  Luncheon,  and  Tea,    .        .  i  75 

The  Dinner  Year-Book,    .       .        .        .  i  75 

LOITERINGS  IN   PLEASANT  PATHS,           .          •  I    75 

Handicapped, i  50 

Eve's  Daughters, i  50 

Miriam, i  50 

Judith  :    A    Chronicle   of   Old   Virginia. 

Paper,  50  cents;   cloth I  00 

With  the  Best  Intentions:   A  Midsummer 

Episode.     Paper,  50  cents ;  cloth  .        .        .  i  00 

Alone, i  50 

Hidden  Path, i  50 

Moss  Side, i  50 

Nemesis, i  50 

At  Last, i  50 

Helen  Gardner, i  50 

True  as  Steel, i  50 

Sunnybank, I  50 

Husbands  and  Homes,       .       .       .        .  i  50 

Ruby's  Husband, i  50 

Phemie's  Temptation,         .       .        .       .  i  50 

The  Empty  Heart, i  50 

Jessamine, i  50 

From  My  Youth  Up, i  50 

My  Little  Love, i  50 

His  Great  Self, i  25 


COMMON  SENSE 


IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


▲  MANUAL  OF 
\ 


PRACTICAL  HOUSEWIFERY 


BY 

MARION   HARLAND 


*'  We  go  npon  the  practical  mode  of  teaching,  Nlekleby.  When 
m  boy  known  this  out  of  book,  he  poM  and  does  U.  This  it  our 
•ystem.    What  do  yon  think  of  it  T  "—Nickoku  IHekMty. 


SKajorHg  9tAitU% 


NEW   YORK 
CHARLES   SCRIBNER'S   SONS 

1893 


Ir  'I  o 


;  ^. ! .  -^ 


Entered  eooording  to  Act  of  Gongreea,  In  the  year  1871,  bf 

CHARLES  8GRIBNEB  *  00. 
In  the  OfBoe  of  the  Librarian  of  Congreas  at  Washington. 


COPTEIORT,  1880,  BT 

CHABLE8  SCRIBNER'S  fiONa 


GOPTSIORT,  1892,  BT 
CHABLW  BGBIBNES'8  flOlia 


TO  MY 

FELLOW-HOUSEKEEPERS, 

frORTH,  EAST,  SOUTH  AND  WEST,   THIS  VOLUME, 

THE  GLEANINGS  OF  MANY  YEARS, 

18    CORDIALLY 

DEDICATED. 


INTRODUCTORY. 


The  twenty-one  years  that  have  passed  sinee  the  first 
edition  of  "  Commov  Sevse  iir  the  Household  "  was 
published  have  been  a  period  of  marked  progress  in  the 
world  of  housewifery.  While  general  culinary  principles 
remain  unchanged,  methods  and  combinations  have  been 
introduced  by  professors  and  adepts  in  the  art  that  make 
advisable  modifications  of  some  recipes  and  the  introduc- 
tion of  others,  even  in  a  manual  prepared  as  carefully  as 
was  that  which  has  borne  the  test  of  over  two  decades  of 
wear  and  tear. 

It  is  the  wish  of  the  publishers,  and  the  author's  design, 
that  this,  the  Majority  Edition  of  "'  CoMaiON  Sense  in 
the  Household,"  shall  be  the  best  guide  in  wholesome 
and  palatable  cookery  ever  put  into  the  hands  of  a  young 
housekeeper.  The  great  success  that  has  attended  upon 
the  work  from  the  year  1871  until  now  is  explicable  upon 
only  one  hypothesis — it  meets  and  satisfies  the  needs  of 
the  intelligent  learner,  and  never  disappoints  the  trust  of 
her  who  *'  has  kept  house  by  it  for  twenty  years." 

The  author  speaks  feelingly  in  declaring  that  no  other 


Yl  INTRODUC5TORY. 

result  of  her  thought  and  toil  has  brought  her  the  grati- 
fication she  draws  from  the  consciousness  that  she  has 
made  domestic  life  easier  and  thousands  of  homes  happier 
by  this  product  of  her  own  experience.  The  few  altera- 
tions that  will  be  made  in  the  text  of  this  edition  will  not 
change  the  familiar  features  of  the  \ong-time  favorite. 
The  touch  here  and  the  stroke  there  will  but  make  the 
machinery  run  more  smoothly.  In  view  of  this,  the  one 
excuse  for  the  added  preface  is  that  it  gives  the  author 
an  opportunity  to  ask  and  exchange  congratulations  with 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  friends  all  over  the  broad  earth 
upon  the  ooming-of-age  of  her  sturdy  bantling.  The  new 
dress  in  which  the  liberality  of  his  sponsors  has  arrayed 
him  IS  his  freedom-suit,  in  the  which  it  is  hoped  and 
believed  he  will  be  as  useful  and  beloved  as  he  has  been 
in  that  he  now  lays  aside. 

Marion  Harland. 
Brooklyn,  August,  1892. 


INDEX  OF  GENERAL  SUBJECTS. 


PAGE. 

Blanomange 414 

Bresid 2oG 

Brandied  fruits 467 

Butter 2ol 

Cakes  ....           ....  290 

Candy 4G8 

Canoed  fruits.    ......  463 

"        vegetables 463 

Catsups 170 

Clean,  to,  etc 511 

Companj.  .    .   ; 140 

Corn  bread 283 

Creams 432 

Custards 432 

Drinks 480 

Eggs 230 

Familiar  talk 1 

Fifih 38 

Fritters 403 

Fruit,  ripe,  for  dessert  .    .    .  442 

Game 147 

Gingerbread 330 

Ices. 432 

Ice-cream 432 

Icing 301 


PAGE. 

Jellies 414 

Jellies,  fruit 459 

Meats 84 

Milk 251 

Nursery,  the 511 

Pancakes 403 

Pickles 469 

Pies 337 

Preserves 445 

Pork 114 

Poultry 69 

Puddings 871 

Salads 187 

Sauces  for  fish  and  meat .   .  170 

**       for  puddings.    .   .   .  408 

Servants 358 

Sick-room,  the 492 

Shell-fish   ........  57 

Soap 528 

Soups 15 

Sundries 517 

Tarts 351 

Vegetables 197 

Vinegars,  flavored  ....  179 


FAMIMAR  TALK 


WITH  MY 


FELLOW  HOUSEKEEPER  AND  READER. 


A  TALK  OS  woman  to  woman,  in  which  each  shall  say, 
'*  I "  and  "  70U,"  and  " my  dear,"  and  ''you  know,"  aa freely 
as  she  plr-ases.  It  would  not  be  a  wopaanly  chat  if  we 
omitted  these  forms  of  expression.  An  informal  preface 
to  what  I  mean  shall  be  an  informal  book — ^bristling  with 
"I's"all  the  way  through.  If  said  bristles  offend  the 
critic's  touch,  let  him  remember  that  this  work  is  not  pre- 
pared for  the  library,  but  for  readers  who  trouble  them- 
selves little  about  editorial "  we's  "  and  the  circumlocutions 
of  literary  modesty. 

I  wish  it  were  in  my  power  to  bring  you,  the  prospec- 
tive owner  of  this  volume,  in  person,  as  I  do  in  spirit,  to 
my  side  on  this  winter  evening,  when  the  bairnies  are 
"folded  like  the  flocks;"  the  orders  for  breakfast  commit- 
ted to  the  keeping  of  Bridget,  or  Gretchen.  or  Chloe,  or 
the  plans  for  the  morrow  definitely  laid  in  the  brain  of 
that  ever-busy,  but  most  independent  of  women,  the 
housekeeper  who  "  does  her  own  work."  I  should  perhaps 
summon  to  our  cozy  conference  a  very  weary  companion 
— weary  of  foot,  of  hand — and  I  should  not  deserve  to  be 
your  confidant,  did  I  not  know  how  often  heartrweary  with 


JS  COMMON  8EN8B. 

discouragement ;  with  much  producing  of  ways  and  means; 
with  a  certain  despondent  looking  forward  to  the  monot- 
onous grinding  of  the  household  machine;  to  the  certainty, 
proved  by  past  experience,  that  toilsome  as  has  been  this 
day,  the  morrow  will  prove  yet  more  abundant  in  labors, 
in  trials  of  strength  and  nerves  and  temper.  You  would 
tell  me  what  a  dreary  problem  this  of  "  woman's  work 
that  is  never  done"  is  to  your  fainting  soul.  How,  try 
as  you  may  and  as  you  do  to  be  systematic  and  diligent, 
something  is  always  "  turning  up  "  in  the  treadmill  to  keep 
you  on  the  strain.  How  you  often  say  to  yourself,  in  bit- 
terness of  spirit,  that  it  is  a  mistake  of  Christian  civiliza- 
tion to  educate  girls  into  a  love  of  science  and  literature, 
and  then  condemn  them  to  the  routine  of  a  domestic 
drudge.  You  do  not  see,  you  say,  that  years  of  scholastic 
training  will  make  you  a  better  cook,  a  better  wife  or 
mother.  You  have  seen  the  time — nay,  many  times  since 
assuming  your  present  position — when  you  would  have 
exchanged  your  knowledge  of  ancient  and  modern  lan- 
guages, belles-lettres,  music,  and  natural  science,  for  the 
skill  of  a  competent  kitchen-maid.  The  "  learning  how  " 
is  such  hard  work  I  Labor,  too,  uncheered  by  encoura- 
ging words  from  mature  housewives,  unsoflened  by  sym- 
pathy even  from  your  husband,  or  your  father  or  brother, 
or  whoever  may  be  the  "  one  "  to  whom  you  "  make  home 
lovely."  It  may  be  that,  in  utter  discouragement,  you 
have  made  up  your  mind  that  you  have  "  no  talent  for 
these  things." 

I  have  before  me  now  the  picture  of  a  wife,  the  mother 
of  four  children,  who,  many  years  ago,  sickened  me  for  all 
time  with  that  phrase.  In  a  slatternly  morning-gown  at 
four  in  the  afternoon,  leaning  back  in  the  laziest  and  most 
ragged  of  rocking-chairs,  dust  on  the  carpet,  on  the  open 
piano,  the  mantel,  the  mirrors,  even  on  her  own  hair,  she 


FAMTLTAR  TALK  WITH  MT  READER.  3 

rubbed  the  soft  palm  of  one  hand  with  the  grimy  fingen 
of  the  other,  and  with  a  sickly-sweet  smile  whined  out — 

"  Now,  I  am  one  of  the  kind  who  have  no  talent  for 
such  things !  The  kitchen  and  housework  and  sewing  are 
absolutely  hateful  to  me— utterly  uncongenial  to  my  turn 
of  mind.  The  height  of  my  earthly  ambition  is  to  have 
nothing  to  do  but  to  paint  on  velvet  all  day ! " 

I  felt  then,  in  the  height  of  my  indignant  disgust,  that 
there  was  propriety  aa  well  aa  wit  in  the  "  Spectator's " 
suggestion  that  every  young  woman  should,  before  fixing 
the  wedding-day,  be  compelled  by  law  to  exhibit  to  in- 
spectors a  prescribed  number  of  useful  articles  as  her  out- 
fit— napery,  bed-linen,  clothing,  etc.,  made  by  her  own 
hands,  and  that  it  would  be  wise  legislation  which  should 
add  to  these  proofs  of  her  fitness  for  her  new  sphere  a 
practical  knowledge  of  housework  and  cookery. 

If  you  have  not  what  our  Yankee  grandmothers  termed 
a  "  &culty  "  for  housewifery — yet  are  obliged,  as  is  the 
case  with  an  immense  majority  of  American  women,  to 
conduct  the  afiairs  of  a  household,  bills  of  fare  included — 
there  is  the  more  reason  for  earnest  application  to  your 
profession.  If  the  natural  taste  be  dull,  lay  to  it  more 
strength  of  will — resolution  born  of  a  just  sense  of  the  im- 
portance of  the  knowledge  and  dexterity  you  would  ac- 
quire. Do  not  scofi*  at  the  word  "  profession."  Call  not 
that  common  and  unclean  which  Providence  has  desig- 
nated as  your  life-work.  I  speak  not  now  of  the  labors  of 
the  culinary  department  alone ;  but,  without  naming  the 
other  duties  which  you  and  you  only  can  perform,  I 
do  insist  that  upon  method,  skill,  economy  in  the  kitchen, 
depends  so  much  of  the  well-being  of  the  rest  of  the  house- 
hold, that  it  may  safely  be  styled  the  root— die  foundation 
of  house-wifery.  I  own  it  would  be  pleasanter  in  most 
cases,  especially  to  those  who  have  cultivated  a  taste  for 


4  COMMON  81L589. 

intellectual  pursuits,  to  live  above  the  heat  and  odor  of  this 
department.  It  must  be  very  fine  to  have  an  efficient 
ajde-de-camp  in  the  person  of  a  French  cook,  or  a  compe- 
tent sub-manager,  or  an  accomplished  head-waiter  who 
receives  your  orders  for  the  day  in  your  boudoir  or  library, 
and  executes  the  same  with  zeal  and  discretion  that  leave 
you  no  room  for  anxiety  or  regret.  Such  mistresses  do 
not  need  cookery-books.  The  few — and  it  must  be  borne 
in  mind  that  in  this  country  these  are  very  few — bom  in 
an  estate  like  this  would  not  comprehend  what  I  am  now 
writing ;  would  not  enter  into  the  depths  of  that  compas- 
sionate yearning  which  moves  me  as  I  think  of  what  I 
have  known  for  myself  in  the  earlier  years  of  my  wedded 
life,  what  I  have  heard  and  seen  in  other  households  of 
honest  intentions  brought  to  contempt;  of  ill-directed 
toil ;  of  mortification,  and  the  heavy,  wearing  sense  of  ir 
feriority  that  puts  the  novice  at  such  a  woful  disadvantag. 
in  a  community  of  notable  managers. 

There  is  no  use  in  enlarging  upon  this  point.  Tou  and 
I  might  compare  experiences  by  the  hour  without  exhaust- 
ing our  store. 

"  And  then  ** — you  sigh,  with  a  sense  of  resentment  upon 
you,  however  amiable  your  disposition,  for  the  provocation 
is  dire — **  cookery-books  and  young  housekeepers'  assist- 
tants,  and  all  that  sort  of  thing,  are  such  humbugs  I — 
Dark  lanterns  at  best — ^too  often  Will-o'-the-wisps." 

My  dear,  would  you  mind  handing  me  the  book  which 
lies  nearest  you  on  the  table  there?  ''Dickens?"  Of 
course.  You  will  usually  find  something  of  his  in  every 
room  in  this  house — almost  as  surely  as  you  will  a  Bible. 
It  rests  and  refreshes  one  to  pick  him  up  at  odd  times,  and 
dip  in  anywhere.  Hear  the  bride,  Mrs.  John  Bokesmith, 
upon  our  common  grievance. 

'^  Bhe  was  under  the  constant  necessity  of  rdfarring  for 


FAMILIAR  TALK  WITH  MT   READER.  5 

advice  and  support  to  a  sage  volume,  entitled  '  The  Com- 
plete Britiah  Family  Housewife/  which  she  would  sit  con- 
sulting, with  her  elbows  upon  the  tabic,  and  her  temples  in 
her  hands,  like  some  perplexed  enchantress  poring  over  the 
Black  Art  This,  principally  because  the  Complete  British 
Housewife,  however  sound  a  Briton  at  heart,  was  by  no 
means  an  expert  Briton  at  expressing  herself  with  clear- 
ness in  the  British  tongue,  and  sometimes  might  have 
issued  her  directions  to  equal  purpose  in  the  Kamtchatkan 
language." 

Don't  interrupt  me,  my  long-suffering  sister !  There  is 
more  of  the  same  sort  to  come. 

**  There  was  likewise  a  coolness  on  the  part  of  *  The 
Complete  British  Housewife '  which  Mrs.  John  Roke- 
smith  found  highly  exasperating.  She  would  say, '  Take 
a  salamander,'  as  if  a  general  should  command  a  private 
to  catch  a  Tartar.  Or,  she  would  casually  issue  the 
order,  *  Throw  in  a  handful'  of  something  entirely  unat- 
tainable. In  these,  the  housewife's  most  glaring  moments 
of  unreason,  Bella  would  shut  her  up  and  knock  her  on 
the  table,  apostrophizing  her  with  the  compliment — 'O 
you  ARE  a  stupid  old  donkey  I  Where  am  I  to  get  it, 
do  you  think?'" 

When  I  took  possession  of  my  first  real  home,  the  pret- 
tily furnished  cottage  to  which  I  came  as  a  bride,  more 
full  of  hope  and  courage  than  if  I  had  been  wiser,  five 
good  friends  presented  me  with  as  many  cookery-books, 
each  complete,  and  all  by  different  compilers.  One  day's 
investigation  of  my  menage  convinced  me  that  my  lately- 
hired  servants  knew  no  more  about  cookery  than  I  did,  or 
affected  stupidity  to  develop  my  capabilities  or  ignorance. 
Too  proud  to  let  them  suspect  the  truth,  or  to  have  it 
bruited  abroad  as  a  topic  for  pitying  or  contemptuous 
gossip,  I  shut  myself  up  with  my  "  Complete  Housewives," 


6  OOHMON  SENSE. 

and  inclined  seriously  to  the  study  of  the  same,  compaiv 
ing  one  with  the  other,  and  seeking  to  shape  a  theory 
which  should  grow  into  practice  in  accordance  with  the 
best  authority.  I  don't  like  to  remember  that  time  I  The 
question  of  disagreeing  doctors,  and  the  predicament  of 
falling  between  two  stools,  are  trivial  perplexities  when 
compared  with  my  strife  and  failure. 

Said  the  would-be  studious  countryman  to  whom  a  mis- 
chievous acquaintance  lent  "  Webster's  Unabridged  Dic- 
tionary "  as  an  entertaining  volume, — ^"  I  wrastled,  and  I 
wrastled,  and  I  wrastled  with  it,  but  I  couldn't  get  up 
much  of  an  int'rest." 

My  wrestling  begat  naught  save  pitiable  confusion, 
hopeless  distress,  and  a  three-days'  sick  headache,  during 
which  season  I  am  not  sure  that  I  did  not  darkly  contem- 
plate suicide  as  the  only  sure  escape  from  the  meshes  that 
girt  me.  At  the  height — or  depth — of  my  despondency  a 
friend,  one  with  a  great  heart  and  steady  brain,  came  to 
my  rescue.  Her  cheerful  laugh  over  my  dilemma  rings 
down  to  me  now,  through  all  these  years,  refreshingly  as 
it  then  saluted  my  ears. 

''Bless  your  innocent  little  heart  I"  she  cried,  in  her 
fresh,  gay  voice,  "  Ninety-nine  out  of  a  hundred  cook- 
books are  written  by  people  who  never  kept  house,  and 
the  hundredth  by  a  good  cook  who  yet  doesn't  know  how 
to  express  herself  to  the  enlightenment  of  others.  Com- 
pile a  receipt  book  for  yourself.  Make  haste  slowly. 
Learn  one  thing  at  a  time,  and  when  you  have  mastered 
it, '  make  a  note  on  it,'  as  Captain  Cuttle  says — never  los- 
ing sight  of  the  principle  that  you  mu8t  do  it  in  order  to 
learn  how," 

Then  she  opened  to  me  her  own  neatly- written  "  Man- 
ual"— ^the  work  of  years,  recommending,  as  I  seized  it» 
that  I  should  commence  my  novitiate  with  simple  dishes. 


FAMILIAR  TALK  WITH  MT  READER.  7 

This  was  the  begiDDing  of  the  hoard  of  prmctical  re- 
ceipts I  DOW  offer  for  your  inspection.  For  twenty  years, 
I  have  steadily  pursued  this  work,  gleaning  here  and  sift* 
ing  there,  and  levymg  such  remorseless  contributions  upon 
my  friends,  that  I  fear  the  sight  of  my  paper  and  pencil 
has  long  since  become  a  bugbear.  For  the  kindness  and 
courtesy  which  have  been  my  invariable  portion  in  this 
quest,  I  hereby  return  hearty  thanks.  For  the  encourag- 
ing words  and  good  wishes  that  have  ever  answered  the 
hint  of  my  intention  to  collect  what  had  proved  so  valu- 
able to  me  into  a  printed  volume,  I  declare  myself  to  be 
yet  more  a  debtor.  I  do  not  claim  for  my  compend  the 
proud  pre-eminence  of  the  '*  Complete  American  House- 
wife." It  is  no  boastful  system  of  *'  Cookery  Taught  in 
Twelve  Lessons."  And  I  should  write  myself  down  a 
knave  or  a  fool,  were  I  to  assert  that  a  raw  cook  or  igno- 
rant mistress  can,  by  half-a-day's  study  of  my  collection, 
equal  Soyer  or  Blot,  or  even  approximate  the  art  of  a 
half-taught  scullion. 

We  may  as  well  start  from  the  right  point,  if  we  hope 
to  continue  friends.  You  must  learn  the  rudiments  of 
the  >art  for  yourself.  Practice,  and  practice  alone,  will 
teach  you  certain  essentials.  The  management  of  the 
ovens,  the  requisite  thickness  of  boiling  custards,  the  right 
shade  of  brown  upon  bread  and  roasted  meats — ^these  and 
dozens  of  other  details  are  hints  which  cannot  be  imparted 
by  written  or  oral  instructions.  But,  once  learned,  they 
are  never  forgotten,  and  henceforward  your  fate  is  in  your 
own  hands.  You  are  mistress  of  yourself,  though  servants 
leave.  Have  faith  in  your  own  abilities.  You  will  be  a 
better  cook  for  the  mental  training  you  have  received  at 
school  and  from  books.  Brains  tell  everywhere,  to  say 
nothing  of  intelligent  observation,  just  judgment,  a  faith- 
ful memory,  and  orderly  habits.    Consider  that  you  have 


a  profession,  as  I  said  just  now,  and  resolve  to  understand 
it  in  all  its  branches.  My  book  is  designed  to  help  you. 
I  believe  it  will,  if  for  no  other  reason,  because  it  has 
been  a  faithful  guide  to  myself — a  reference  beyond  value 
in  seasons  of  doubt  and  need.  I  have  brought  every  re- 
ceipt to  the  test  of  common  sense  and  experience.  Those 
which  I  have  not  tried  myself  were  obtained  from  trusts- 
worthy  housewives — the  best  I  know.  I  have  enjoyed  the 
task  heartily,  and  from  first  to  last  the  persuasion  has 
never  left  me  that  I  was  engaged  in  a  good  cause. 
Throughout  I  have  had  you,  my  dear  sister,  present  be- 
fore me,  with  the  little  plait  between  your  brows,  the 
wistful  look  about  eye  and  mouth  that  reveal  to  me,  as 
words  could  not,  your  desire  to  "do  your  best." 

"  In  a  humble  home,  and  in  a  humble  way,"  I  hear  you 
add,  perhaps.  You  "are  not  ambitious;*'  you  "  only  want 
to  help  John,  and  to  make  him  and  the  children  comfort- 
able and  happy." 

Heaven  reward  your  honest,  loyal  endeavors  I  Would 
you  mind  if  I  were  to  whisper  a  word  in  your  ear  I  don't 
care  to  have  progressive  people  hear  ? — although  progress 
is  a  grand  thing  when  it  takes  the  right  direction.  My 
dear,  John  and  the  children,  and  the  humble  home,  make 
your  sphere  for  the  present,  you  say.  Be  sure  you  fill  it — 
fuUI  before  you  seek  one  wider  and  higher.  There  is  no 
better  receipt  between  these  covers  than  that.  Leave  the 
rest  to  God.  Everybody  knows  those  four  lines  of  George 
Herbert's,  which  ought  to  be  framed  and  hung  up  in  the 
work-room  of  every  house : — 

''A  servant,  with  this  claase, 
Makes  drudgery  divine ; 
Who  swoepR  a  room  as  for  Thy  laws 
Makes  that  and  th*  action  fine/' 

1  wonder  if  the  sainted  poet  knows — in  that  land  where 


FAMILIAR  TALK  WITH:  XT  HEADER.  9 

drudgery  is  one  of  the  rough  places  forever  overpast,  and 
work  is  unmingled  blessing — ^to  how  many  sad  and  striv- 
ing hearts  those  words  have  brought  peace? 

And  by  way  of  helping  John,  not  only  by  saving  money 
and  preparing  palatable  and  wholesome  dishes  for  his 
table,  but  by  sparing  the  wife  he  loves  many  needless  steps 
and  much  hurtful  care,  will  you  heed  a  homely  hint  or 
two  relative  to  the  practice  of  your  art?  Study  method, 
and  economy  of  time  and  strength,  no  less  than  of  ma- 
terials. I  take  it  for  granted  that  you  are  too  intelligent 
to  share  in  the  vulgar  prejudice  against  labor-saving  ma- 
chines. A  raisin-seeder  costs  a  trifle  in  comparison  with 
the  time  and  patience  required  to  stone  the  fruit  in  the 
old  way.  A  good  egg-beater — the  Dover,  for  instance — 
is  a  treasure.'  So  with  farina-kettles,  syllabub  chums, 
apple-corers,  potato-peelers  and  slicers,  clothes  wringers 
and  sprinklers,  and  the  like.  Most  of  these  are  made  of 
tin — are  therefore  cheap  and  easily  kept  clean.  Let  each 
article  have  its  own  place  in  the  closet  and  kitchen, 
to  which  restore  it  so  soon  as  you  have  done  using  it. 
Before  undertaking  the  preparation  of  any  dish,  read 
over  the  receipt  carefully,  unless  you  are  thoroughly 
fitmiliar  with  the  manufacture  of  it.  Many  excellent 
housewives  have  a  &shion  of  saying  loftily,  when  asked 
how  such  things  are  made-^''  I  carry  all  my  receipts  in  my 
head.     I  never  wrote  out  one  in  my  life." 

And  you,  if  timid  and  self-distrustiul,  are  smitten  with 
shame,  keep  your  receipt-book  out  of  sight,  and  cram 
your  memory  with  ingredients  and  measures,  times  and 
weights,  for  fear  Mrs.  Notable  should  suspect  you  of  raw- 
ness and  inefficiency.  Whereas  the  truth  is,  that  if  you 
have  a  mind  worthy  of  the  name,  its  powers  are  too  valu- 
able to  be  laden  with  such  details.  Master  the  general 
principles,  as  I  said  just  now,  and  for  particulars  look  to 

1* 


10  ooMMOK  sxma. 

your  marohing-orden.  Ebtving  refirMhed  your  memory 
by  this  reference,  pick  out  from  your  household  BtoreB, 
and  set  in  convenient  order,  within  reach  of  your  hand, 
everything  you  will  need  in  making  ready  the  particular 
compound  under  consideration.  Then,  take  your  stand 
in  the  midst— or  sit,  if  you  can.  It  is  common  sense — 
oftentimes  a  pious  duty,  to  take  judicious  care  of  your 
physical  health.  I  lay  it  down  as  a  safe  and  imperative 
rule  for  kitchen  use — Never  stand  uAan  you  can  do  your 
work  (u  well  while  sitting.  If  I  could  have  John's  ear  for 
a  minute,  I  would  tell  him  that  which  would  lead  him  to 
watch  you  and  exercise  wholesome  authority  in  this 
regard. 

Next,  prepare  each  ingredient  for  mixing,  that  the 
bread,  cake,  pudding,  soup,  or  ragout  may  not  be  delayed 
when  half  finished  because  the  flour  is  not  sifted,  or  the 
''shortening"  warmed,  the  sugar  and  butter  are  not 
creamed,  the  meat  not  cut  up,  or  the  herbs  not  minced. 
Don't  begin  until  you  are  ready;  then  go  steadily  for- 
ward, "  without  haste,  without  rest,"  and  think  of  what 
you  are  doing. 

**  Dickens  again  ?  " 

Why  not,  since  there  is  no  more  genial  and  pertinent 
philosopher  of  common  life  and  every-day  subjects?  To 
quote,  then — 

*^  It  was  a  maxim  of  Captain  Bwosser  s,"  said  Mrs. 
Badger,  '*  speaking  in  his  figurative,  naval  manner,  that 
when  you  make  pitch  hot,  you  cannot  make  it  too  hot, 
and  that  if  you  have  only  to  swab  a  plank,  you  should 
swab  it  as  if  Davy  Jones  were  after  you.  It  appears  to 
me  that  this  maxim  is  applicable  to  the  medical  as  well  as 
the  nautical  profession." 

**  To  all  professions !  *'  observed  Mr.  Badger.  "  It  was 
admirably  said  by  Captain  8woaser ;  beautifully  said  I " 


FAMILIAR  TALK   WItR  MT  READER.  11 

But  it  will  80iii#timeB  happen  that  when  you  have 
heated  your  pitch,  or  swabbed  your  deck,  or  made  your 
pudding  according  to  the  lights  set  before  you,  the  result 
is  a  failure.  This  is  especially  apt  to  occur  in  a  maiden 
effort  You  have  wasted  materials  knd  time,  and  suffered, 
moreover,  acute  demoralization — atc  enwrapped  in  a  wet 
blanket  of  discouragement,  inat^^d  of  the  seemly  robe  of 
complacency.  Yet  no  part  of  the  culinary  education  is 
more  useful,  if  turned  to  pi^^ncr  account,  than  this  very 
discipline  of  failure.  It  is  i:  stepping-stone  to  excellence 
— sharp,  it  is  true,  but  often  sure.  You  have  learned  how 
tio<  to  do  it  ri^ht,  which  is  the  next  thing  to  success.  It 
is  pretty  certain  that  you  will  avoid,  in  your  second  estoy, 
the  rock  upon  which  you  have  split  this  time.  And,  after 
all,  there  are  few  failures  which  are  utter  and  irremedia- 
ble. Scorched  soups  and  custards,  sour  bread,  biscuit 
yellow  with  soda,  and  cake  heavy  as  lead,  ^ome  under  the 
head  of "  hopeless."  They  are  ab«>into1y  unfit  to  be  set 
before  civilized  beings  and  educated  stomachs.  Should 
such  mishaps  occur,  lock  the  memory  of  the  attempt  in 
your  own  bosom,  and  do  not  vex  or  amuse  John  and  your 
guests  with  the  narration,  still  less  with  visible  proof  of 
the  calamity.  Many  a  partial  failure  would  pass  unob- 
served but  for  the  clouded  brow  and  earnest  apologies  of 
the  hostess.  Do  not  apologize  except  at  the  last  gasp ! 
If  there  is  but  one  chance  in  ten  that  a  single  person  pre- 
sent may  not  discover  the  deficiency  which  has  changed 
all  food  on  the  table  to  dust  and  gravel-stones  to  you, 
trust  to  the  one  chance,  and  carry  off  the  matter  bravely. 
You  will  be  astonished  to  find,  if  you  keep  your  wits 
about  you  how  often  even  your  husband  will  temain  in 
blissful  ignorance  that  aught  has  gone  wrong,  if  you  do 
not  tell  him.  You  know  so  well  what  should  have  been 
the  product  of  your  labor  that  you  exaggerate  the  justice 


1S(  ■      OOMMOK  8BV8E. 

of  dthen-  peroeptioofl.  Console  jouraelf,  furthermore, 
with  the  reflection  that  jours  is  not  the  first  failure  upon 
record,  nor  the  million-and-first,  and  that  there  will  be 
as  many  to-morrows  as  there  have  been  yesterdays. 

Don't  add  to  a  trifling  contretemps  the  real  discomfort 
of  a  discontented  or  fretful  wife.  Say  blithely,  if  John 
note  your  misfortune — ^"  I  hope  to  do  better  another  time," 
and  do  not  be  satisfied  until  you  have  redeemed  youi 
pledge.  Experience  and  your  quick  wit  will  soon  teach 
you  bow  to  avert  impending  evils  of  this  nature,  how  to 
snatch  your  preparations  from  imminent  destruction,  and, 
by  ingenious  correctives  or  concealments,  to  make  them 
presentable.  These  you  will  soon  learn  for  yourself  if  you 
keep  before  you  the  truism  I  have  already  written,  to  wit, 
that  few  failures  are  beyond  repair. 

Never  try  experiments  for  the  benefit  of  invited  guests 
nori  when  John  b  at  home,  risk  the  success  of  your  meal 
upon  a  new  dish.  Have  something  which  you  know  he 
can  eat,  and  introduce  experiments  as  by-play.  But  do 
not  be  too  shy  of  innovations  in  the  shape  of  untried  dishes. 
Variety  is  not  only  pleasant,  but  healthful.  The  least 
pampered  palate  will  weary  of  stereotyped  bills  of  fare.  It 
is  an  idea  which  should  have  been  exploded  long  ago,  that 
plain  roast,  boiled,  and  fried,  on  Monday,  Tuesday, 
Wednesday,  and  Thursday,  cod-fish  on  Friday,  with  pork- 
and-beans  every  Saturday,  are  means  of  grace,  because 
economical.  And  with  this  should  have  vanished  the  pre- 
judice against  warmed-over  meals— or  rMutuffU^  as  our 
French  friends  term  them.  I  have  tried,  in  the  following 
pages,  to  set  forth  the  attractions  of  these,  and  their  claims 
to  your  attention  as  being  savory,  economical,  nourishing, 
and  ofken  elegant  In  preparing  these  acceptably,  every- 
thing depends  upon  your  own  taste  and  skill  Season  with 
judgment,  cook  just  enough  And  not  a  minute  too  long, 


FAMILIAB  TALK  WITH  HT  HEADER.  13 

and  dish  nicely.  The  recommendation  of  the  eje  to  the 
palate  is  a  point  no  cook  can  afford  to  disregard.  If  you 
can  ofifer  an  unexpected  visitor  nothing  better  than  bread- 
and-butter  and  cold  ham,  he  will  enjoy  the  luncheon  twice 
as  much  if  the  bread  be  sliced  thinly  and  evenly,  spread 
smoothly,  each  slice  folded  in  the  middle  upon  the  buttered 
surface,  and  piled  symmetrically;  if  the  ham  be  also  cut 
thin,  scarcely  thicker  than  a  wafer,  and  garnished  with 
parsley,  cresses,  or  curled  lettuce.  Set  on  mustard  and 
pickles;  let  the  table-cloth  and  napkin  be  white  and  glossy; 
the  glass  clear,  and  plate  shining  clean ;  and  add  to  these 
accessories  to  comfort  a  bright  welcome,  and,  my  word  for 
it,  you  need  fear  no  dissatisfaction  on  his  part,  however 
epicurean  may  be  his  tastes.  Should  your  cupboard  be 
bare  of  aught  more  substantial  than  crackers  and  cheese, 
do  not  yield  to  dbmay ;  split  the  crackers  (if  splittable), 
toast  the  inside  lightly,  and  butter  while  hot.  Grate  your 
cheese  into  a  powdery  mound,  garnishing  the  edges  of  the 
plate.  If  you  have  no  beverage  except  water  to  set  be- 
fore him,  let  this  be  cool,  and  pour  it  out  for  him  your- 
self, into  an  irreproachable  glass.  A  dirty  table-cloth,  a 
smeared  goblet,  or  a  sticky  plate,  will  spoil  the  most  luxu- 
rious feast.    A  table  well  set  is  half  spread. 

I  have  not  said  one-tenth  of  that  which  is  pressing  upon 
my  heart  and  mind,  yet  I  fear  you  may  think  me  trite  and 
tedious.  One  suggestion  more,  and  we  will  proceed  to  the 
details  of  business. 

I  believe  that,  so  far  as  care  can  avail  in  securing  such 
a  result)  my  receipts  are  accurate.  But  in  the  matter  of 
seasoning  and  other  minor  details,  consult  your  judgment 
and  John's  taste.  Take  this  liberty  with  whatever  receipt 
you  think  you  can  improve.  If  I  chance  to  find  in  your 
work-basket,  or  upon  the  kitchen  dresser,  a  well-thumbed 
copy  of  my  beloved  "Common  Sense,"  with  copious  anno- 


14  COMMON  SESfflE. 

tatioDS  in  the  margin,  I  shall,  so  far  from  feeling  wounded, 
be  flattered  in  having  so  diligent  a  student,  and,  with  your 
permission,  shall  engraft  the  most  happy  suggestions  upon 
the  next  edition. 

For  the  speedy  issue  of  which,  the  petitioner  doth  hum- 
bly pray. 

Marion  Harland. 


NOTE. 

Ih  looking  orer  this  book  the  reader  will  notice  certain  receipts 
marked  thuB—yJ^.  I  do  not  daim  for  these  greater  merit  than 
should  of  right  be  accorded  to  many  others.  -I  merely  wish  to  call 
the  attention  of  the  noTioe  to  them  as  certainly  safe,  and  for  the 
most  part  simple.  Every  one  thus  marked  has  been  tried  by  my- 
self; most  of  them  are  in  frequent,  some  in  daily  use,  in  my  own 
femily. 

My  reason  for  thus  singling  oat  comparatirely  a  small  number  of 
receipts  from  the  rest,  is  the  recollection  of  my  own  perplexities— 
the  loss  of  time  and  patience  to  which  I  have  been  subjected  in  the 
examination  of  a  new  cookery-book,  with  an  eye  to  immediate  use 
of  the  directions  laid  down  for  rarious  dishes.  I  have  often  and 
vainly  wished  for  a  finger-board  to  gnide  me  in  my  search  for  those 
which  were  easy  and  sure,  and  which  would  result  satisfactorily. 
This  sort  of  directory  I  have  endeiiYored  to  supply,  taking  care, 
however,  to  inform  the  reader  in  advance  that,  so  far  as  I  know, 
there  is  not  an  unsafe  receipt  in  the  whole  work. 

Of  course  it  was  not  neceflsary  or  expedient  to  append  the  above 
sign  to  plain  '*  roast  and  boiled,"  which  are  in  common  use  every- 
where. 


SOUPS. 


The  base  of  all  soups,  except  what  are  called  **  maigrt!^ 
should  be  uncooked  meat.  To  this  may  be  added,  if  you 
like,  cracked  bones  of  cooked  game,  or  of  underdone  beef 
or  mutton ;  but  for  flavor  and  nourishment,  depend  upon 
the  juices  of  the  meat  which  is  put  in  raw.  Cut  this  into 
small  pieces,  and  beat  the  bone  until  it  is  fractured  at 
every  inch  of  its  length.  Put  on  in  cold  water,  without 
salt,  and  heat  very  slowly.  Do  not  boil  JoLSt  ai  any  stage 
of  the  operation.  Keep  the  pot  covered,  and  do  not  add 
the  salt  until  the  meat  is  thoroughly  done,  as  it  has  a 
tendency  to  harden  the  fibres  and  restrain  the  flow  of  the 
juices.  Strain  through  a  cullender,  after  which  clear 
soups  should  be  filtered  through  a  hair-sieve  or  coarse 
bobbinet  lace.    The  bag  should  not  be  squeezed. 

It  is  slovenly  to  leave  rags  of  meat,  husks  of  vege« 

tables,  and  bits  of  bone  in  the  tureen.    Do  not  uncover 

16 


16  OOMMOV  BEliSE. 

until  jou  are  ready  to  ladle  out  the  soup.  Do  this 
neatly  and  quickly,  having  your  soup-plates  heated  be- 
forehand. 

Most  soups  are  better  the  second  day  than  the  first, 
unless  they  are  warmed  over  too  quickly  or  left  too  long 
upon  the  fire  after  they  are  hot  In  the  one  case  they 
are  apt  to  scorch ;  in  the  other  they  become  insipid. 


VEGETABLE    SOUPS. 

Gbeen  Pea.  (No.  1.)  >J< 

4  lbs.  beef— cut  into  small  pieces. 

}  peck  of  green  peas. 

1  gallon  water. 

1  tablespoonful  of  rice-flour  or  corn-starch,  salt, 

pepper,  and  chopped  parsley 
1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

Boil  the  empty  pods  of  the  peas  in  the  water  one  hour 
before  putting  in  the  beef.  Strain  them  out,  add  the  beef, 
and  boil  slowly  two  hours  longer.  Half  an  hour  before 
serving,  add  the  shelled  peas ;  and  twenty  minutes  later, 
the  rice-flour,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  parsley.  Stir  fre- 
quently, to  prevent  scorching.    Strain  into  a  hot  tureen. 


Green  Pea.    (No.  2.) 

2  qts.  of  strong  veal  or  beef  broth. 
i  teaspoonful  sugar. 


VBD15TABLB  dOOPS.  17 

1  tablespooniiil  butter. 
1  qt  shelled  peas. 


Bring  the  broth  to  a  boil ;  put  in  the  peas,  and  boil 
for  twenty  minutes.  Add  the  sugar,  and  a  sprig  of 
green  mint.  Boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour  more,  and  stir 
in  the  butter,  with  pepper  and  salt,  if  the  broth  be  not 
sufficiently  salted  already.  Strain  before  serving,  and 
send  to  table  with  small  squares  of  toasted  bread  float- 
ing upon  the  top. 


Split  Pea  {dried).  >J< 

1  gallon  water. 

1  qt  split  peas,  which  have  been  soaked  over 

night 
1  lb.  salt  pork,  cut  into  bits  an  inch  square, 
lib.  beef. 

Celery  and  sweet  herbs. 
Fried  bread. 
1  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  wet  in  cold  water. 

Put  over  the  fire,  and  boil  slowly  for  two  hours,  or 
until  the  quantity  of  liquor  does  not  exceed  two  quarts. 
Pour  into  a  cullender,  and  press  the  peas  through  it 
with  a  wooden  or  silver  spoon.  Return  the  soup  to  the 
pot,  adding  a  small  head  of  celery,  chopped  up,  a  little 
parsley,  or,  if  preferred,  summer  savory  or  sweet  mar- 
joram. Have  ready  three  or  four  sliees  of  bread  (stale) 
which  have  been  fried  in  butter  until  they  are  brown ; 
eQt-into  slices- and  scatter  them  upon  the  surface  of  the 
«>up  after  it  i»  poured  into  the  tureen. 


18  COMMON  BBHBB. 


Pka.  akd  Tomato.  >J< 

Tbb  is  made  aocordiog  to  either  of  the  foregoing  re- 
ceipts, in  summer  with  green — in  winter  with  canned  or 
split  peas.  Just  before  straining  the  soup,  add  a  quart 
of  tomatoes,  which  have  already  been  stewed  soft ;  let 
the  whole  come  to  a  good  boil,  and  strain  as  above  di- 
rected.  If  the  stewed  tomato  be  watery,  strain  off  the 
superfluous  liquid  before  pouring  into  the  pea  soup,  or 
it  will  be  too  thin. 


Beak  (dried.)  >J< 

The  beans  used  for  this  purpose  may  be  the  ordinary 
kidney,  the  rice  or  field  bean,  or,  best  of  all,  the  French 
mock-turtle  soup  bean.  Soak  a  quart  of  these  over 
night  in  soft  lukewarm  water;  put  them  over  the  fire 
next  morning,  with  one  gallon  of  cold  water  and  about 
two  pounds  of  salt  pork,  fioil  slowly  for  three  hours, 
keeping  the  pot  well  covered;  shred  into  it  a  head  of 
celery,  add  pepper — cayenne,  if  preferred — simmer  half 
an  hour  longer,  strain  through  a  cullender,  and  serve, 
with  slices  of  lemon  passed  to  each  guest. 

Mock-turtle  beans,  treated  in  this  way,  yield  a  very 
fair  substitute  for  the  fine  calf 's-head  soup  known  by 
the  same  name. 

^EAN  AVD  Corn.  ^ 

This  is  a  winter  soup,  an4  is  made  of  white  beans 
prepared  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  but  with 


VBQSrABLE  SOUPS.  19 

the  addition  of  a  quart  of  dried  or  canned  com.  If 
the  former  is  used  (and  8haker  sweet  com  is  nearly 
if  not  quite  as  good  for  soups  as  canned),  soak  it 
over  night  in  warm  water-^-changing  this  early  in  the 
morning,  and  pouring  on  more  warm  water,  barely 
enough  to  cover  the  corn,  and  keeping  it  in  a  close 
vessel  until  ready  to  put  on  the  beans.  Let  all  boil 
together,  with  pork  as  in  the  bean  soup  proper. 
Strain  out  as  usual,  rubbing  hard  through  the  cul- 
lender. Some  persons  have  a  habit  of  neglecting 
the  use  of  the  cullender  in  making  bean  soup,  and 
serving  it  like  stewed  beans  which  have  been  im- 
perfectly drained.  The  practice  is  both  slovenly  and 
unwholesome,  since  the  husks  of  the  cereal  are  thus  im- 
{K)sed  upon  the  digestive  organs  of  the  eater,  with  no 
additional  nutriment.  To  the  beans  and  corn  may  be 
added  a  pint  of  stewed  tomato,  if  desired. 

Asparagus  (  White  soup.) 

3  lbs.  veal.    The  knuckle  is  best. 

3  bunches  asparagus,  as  well  bleached  as  you  can 

procure. 
1  gallon  water. 
1  cup  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  corn-starch. 
Pepper  and  salt. 

Cut  off  the  hard  green  stem,  and  put  half  of  the  tender 
heads  of  the  asparagus  into  the  water  with  the  meat  Boil 
iu  closely  covered  pot  for  three  hours,  until  the  meat  is 
in  rags  and  the  asparagus  dissolved.  Strain  the  liquor 
and  return  to  the  pot,  with  the  remaining  half  of  the  as- 
paragus heads.    Let  this  boil  for  twenty  minutes  more. 


20  OdMMON  -ftSBnSUBi 

and  add,  before  taking  up,  a  cup  of  8weet  milk  (cream  is 
better)  in  which  has  been  stirred  a  tablespoonful  of  rice- 
flour,  arrow-root,  or,  better  still,  corn-starch.*  When  it 
has  fairly  boiled  up,  serve  without  further  straining,  with 
small  squares  of  toast  in  the  tureen.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

AsPARAOUB  {Oreen  9ovp^ 

3  lbs.  veal — cut  into  small  pieces. 

h  lb.  salt  pork. 

3  bunches  asparagus. 

1  gallon  water. 

Cut  the  entire  stalk  of  the  asparagus  into  pieces  an  inch 
long,  and  when  the  meat  has  boiled  one  hour,  add  half  of 
the  vegetable  to  the  liquor  in  the  pot.  Boil  two  hours 
longer  and  straip,  pressing  tlie  asparagus  pulp  very  hard 
to  extract  all  the  green  coloring.  Add  the  other  half  of 
the  asparagus — (the  heads  only,  which  should  be  kept  in 
cold  water  until  you  are  ready  for  them),  and  boil  twenty 
minutes  more.  Then  proceed  as  with  the  asparagus  white 
soup,  omitting  the  milk,  thickening,  and  salt  Tha  sjork 
will  supply  the  latter  seasoning. 

Tomato  {Winter  soup.)  >J< 

3  n>8.  beef. 

1  qt.  canned  tomatoes. 

1  gallon  water. 

A  little  onion. 

Pepper  and  salt. 

Let  the  meat  and  water  boil  for  two  hours,  until  the 
liquid  is  reduced  to  little  more  than  two  quarts.  Then 
stir  in  the  tomatoes,  and  stew  all  slowly  for  three  quarters 
of  an  hour  longer.    Season  to  taste,  strain,  and  serve. 


VSQETABLE  BOUPB.  21 

Tomato  {Summer  soup).  iS 

2}  lbs.  veal  or  lamb. 

1  gallon  water. 

2  qts.  fresh  tomatoes,  peeled  and  cut  up  fine,  or 

a  quart  of  canned  tomatoes. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  white  sugar. 
Pepper  and  salt    Chopped  parsley. 

1  teaspoonful  corn-starch. 

Boil  the  meat  to  shreds  and  the  water  down  to  two 
quarts.  Strain  the  liquor,  put  in  the  tomatoes,  stirring 
them  yery  hard ;  boil  half  an  hour.  Season  with  parsley 
or  other  green  herbs,  pepper,  and  salt.  Strain  again,  and 
stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
white  sugar. 

This  soup  is  more  palatable  still  if  made  with  chicken 
broth. 

Tomato  Bisque.  SB 

2  qts.  of  fresh  or  1  qt.  of  canned  tomatoes. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  cut  up  in  2  of  corn-starch. 

1  teaspoonful  sugar. 

1  qt.  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  soda. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Stew  the  tomatoes  soft  and  rub  through  a  cullender. 
Have  in  another  vessel  the  milk  ready-heated ;  stir  into 
this  the  butter,  corn-starch,  and  sugar,  and  beat  into  the 
thickened  milk  the  salt  and  soda.  Pepper  the  tomatoes, 
turn  into  the  tureen,  and,  gradually,  the  hot  mixture  from 
the  other  kettle.  Mix  thoroughly,  set  in  boiling  water 
for  one  minute,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  serve. 

This  is  sometimes  called  "  Cream  Tomato  Soup." 


22  COMMOK  8EII8S. 

TURHIP. 

Knuckle  of  yeal,  well  cracked.    5  qts.  water. 

Coyer  doeely  and  stew  gently  for  four  hours.    When 

cold,  skim  off  the  fat  and  warm  the  stock  gradually  to 

a  boil.    Have  ready  an  onion  and  a  dosen  large  turnips, 

sweet  marjoram  or  thyme  minced  very  finely.    Put  these 

into  the  soup  and  let  them  simmer  together  for  an  hour. 

Strain :  return  to  the  fire  and  add  a  cup  of  milk — in  which 

has  been  stirred  a  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch — ^and  a 

tablespoonful  of  butter.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  lei 

it  boil  up  once,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  remove  instantly, 

or  it  will  scorch. 

Turnip  Bisque 

is  made  by  boiling  a  doien  white  turnips,  nibbing  them 
through  a  cullender,  then  proceeding  as  with  tomato 
bisque.  Tou  may  boil  half  an  onion  with  the  turnips, 
and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley. 

Potato. 

A  dosen  large  mealy  potatoes.  2  onions. 

1  lb.  salt  pork.  3  qts.  water. 

1  tablespoonful  butter.  •  1  cup  milk  or  cream. 

1  well-beaten  ^g.  Chopped  onion. 

Boil  the  pork  in  the  clear  water  for  an  hour  and  ahalf^ 
thai  take  it  out  Have  ready  the  potatoes,  which,  after 
being  peeled  and  sliced,  should  lie  in  cold  water  fi>r  half  an 
hour.  Throw  them  into  the  pot,  with  the  chopped  onion. 
Cover  and  boil  three<]uarters  of  an  hour,  stirring  often. 
Beat  in  butter,  milk  and  egg.  Add  the  latter  ingrcdioits 
rarefully,  a  little  at  a  time ;  stir  while  it  heats  to  a  final 
boil,  and  then  serve. 

This  is  a  cheap  wholesome  dish,  and  more  palatahle 
than  <me  would  suppose  from  reading  the  receipt 


vegetable  soups.  23 

Potato  Bisque.  8B 

1  heaping  cup  mashed  potatoes  run  through  a  cullender. 
1  small  onion  boiled  soft. 

1  qt.  boiling  water.     1  cup  boiling  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  cut  up  in  as  much  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  celery  (when  procurable). 

1  '*  *'       parsley. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Pinch  of  soda  in  the  milk. 

Cook  onion  and  celery  in  the  water,  and  pour  through 
a  cullender  into  the  mashed  potatoes,  stirring  until  you 
haye  a  thin,  smooth  paste.  Set  over  the  fire  and  stir  in 
the  floured  butter  until  it  begins  to  bubble.  Have  ready 
in  another  vessel  the  hot  milk.  Pour  the  potatoes  into 
the  tureen,  put  in  the  parsley,  and,  immediately,  the  scald- 
ing milk  into  which  the  soda  has  just  been  stirred.  Mix 
all  thoroughly  and  serve.    It  is  very  nice. 

Graham  Soup.  ® 

3  onions.  3  carrots. 

4  turnips.  1  small  cabbage. 

1  bunch  celery.         1  pt.  stewed  tomatoes. 

Chop  all  the  vegetables,  except  the  tomatoes  and  cab- 
bage, very  finely,  and  set  them  over  the  fire  with  rather 
oyer  three  quarts  of  water.  They  should  simmer  gently 
for  half  an  hour,  at  the  end  of  which  time  the  cabbage 
must  be  added,  having  previously  been  parboiled  and 
chopped  up.  In  fifteen  minutes  more  put  in  the  tomatoes 
and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  give  all  a  lively  boil  of 
twenty  minutes.  Rub  through  a  cullender,  return  to  the 
fire,  stir  in  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt, 
half  a  cup  of  milk  thickened  with  corn-starch  ;  let  it  boil 
up,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 


24  COMMON   SENSE. 

OcuRA,  OR  Gumbo. 

2  qts.  of  ochras,  sliced  thin.  1  qt.  of  tomatoes,  also  sliced. 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  2  lbs.  of  beef,  in  small  pieces. 
}  lb.  corned  ham  or  pork,  also  cut  up. 

Put  the  meat  and  ochras  together  in  a  pot  with  a  quart 
of  cold  water — just  enough  to  cover  them — and  let  them 
stew  for  an  hour.  Then  add  the  tomatoes  and  two  quarts 
of  hoiMng  water — more,  if  the  liquid  in  the  pot  has  boiled 
away  so  as  to  expose  the  meat  and  vegetables.  Boil  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  longer,  skimming  often  with  a  silver 
spoon.  When  the  contents  of  the  vessel  are  boiled  to 
pieces,  put  in  the  butter,  with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt, 
if  the  ham  has  not  seasoned  it  sufficiently.  Strain  and 
send  up  with  squares  of  light,  crisp  toast  floating  upon 

it. 

Corn.  >J< 

■ 

1  large  fowl,  cut  into  eight  pieces. 

1  doz.  ears  green  corn — cut  from  the  cobs. 

Boil  the  chicken  with  the  cobs  in  a  gallon  of  water 
until  the  fowl  is  tender — ^if  tough,  the  boiling  must  be 
slow  and  long.  Then,  put  the  corn  into  the  pot,  and 
stew  an  hour  longer — still  gently.  Remove  the  chicken 
with  a  cupful  of  the  liquid.  Set  this  aside,  take  out  the 
cobsy  season  the  corn-soup  with  pepper,  salt,  and  parsley ; 
thicken  with  rice  or  wheat  flour,  boil  up  once,  and  serve 
without  straining,  if  the  corn  be  young  and  tender. 

A  tolerable  fricassee  may  be  made  of  the  chicken,  un- 
less it  has  boiled  to  rags,  by  beating  up  an  egg  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  adding  this  to  the  cupful  of  re- 
served liquor  from  which  the  com  must  be  strained.  Boil 
this  for  a  moment,  thicken  with  flour,  throw  in  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  pepper,  and  salt ;  pour,  while  scalding, 
over  the  chicken,  which  you  have  arranged  in  a  dish ; 
garnish  with  circular  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  curled 
parsley. 


MEAT  80UP8.  25 

MEAT    SOUPS. 

Beef  Soup  (a  la  Jvlienne).  >J< 

*  

6  lbs.  of  lean  beef.  The  shin  is  a  good  piece  for  this  pur- 
pose. Have  the  bones  well  cracked,  carefully  extract- 
ing the  marrow,  every  bit  of  which  should  be  put  into 
the  soup. 

6  qtS'  of  water. 

The  stock  must  be  prepared  the  day  before  the  soup  is 
needed.  Put  the  beef,  bones  and  all,  with  the  water  in  a 
close  vessel,  and  set  it  where  it  will  heat  gradually.  Let 
it  boil  very  slowly  for  six  hours  at  least,  only  uncovering 
the  pot  once  in  a  great  while  to  see  if  there  is  danger  of 
the  water  sinking  too  rapidly.  Should  this  be  the  case, 
replenish  with  boiling  water.  During  the  seventh  hour, 
take  off  the  soup  and  set  it  away  in  a  cool  place  until 
next  morning.  About  an  hour  before  dinner,  take  out 
the  meat,  remove  the  cake  of  fat  from  the  surface  of  the 
stock,  set  the  two  quarts  of  soup  over  the  fire,  and  throw 
in  a  little  salt  to  bring  up  the  scum.  When  this  has  been 
skimmed  carefully  off,  put  in  your  vegetables.  These 
should  be : — 

2  carrots.  3  turnips. 

Half  a  head  of  white  cabbage.    1  pt.  green  corn,  or  canned. 

1  head  celery.  1  qt.  tomatoes. 

These  should  be  prepared  for  the  soup  by  slicing  them 
very  small  and  stewing  them  in  enough  water  to  cover 
them,  until  they  break  to  pieces.  Cook  the  cabbage  by 
itself  in  two  waters — throwing  the  first  away.  A  single 
carrot  should  likewise  be  cooked  alone  and  whole,  until 
thoroughly  done,  and  set  aside  to  cool,  when  the  rest  of 
the  vegetables,  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled, 
are  added  to  the  soup.  Return  the  pot  to  the  fire  with 
the  vegetables  and  stock,  and  boil  slowly  for  half  an  hour. 


26  OOMMON  SENSE. 

Stndn  without  presBing,  only  shaking  and  lightly  stirring 
the  contents  of  the  cullender.  Much  boiling  and  squeez- 
ing only  make  the  soup  cloudy.  Cut  the  reserved  carrot 
into  dice  and  drop  into  the  clear  liquor  after  it  is  in  the 
tureen — also,  if  you  like,  a  handful  of  vermicelli,  or 
macaroni  which  has  been  boiled  tender  in  clear  water. 

The  seasoning  of  this  excellent  soup  is  a  matter  of  taste. 
Some  use  only  salt  and  white  pepper.  Others  like  with 
this  a  few  blades  of  mace,  and  boil  in  the  stock  a  handful 
of  sweet  herbs.  And  others  fancy  that,  in  addition  to 
these,  a  glass  of  brown  sherry  imparts  a  flavor  that  renders 
it  peculiarly  acceptable  to  most  palates.  Send  to  table 
very  hot,  and  have  the  soup-plates  likewise  heated. 

Veal  Soup  tvrxH  Macaroni.  >I< 

3  lbs.  of  veal  knuckio  or  scrag,  with  the  bones 

broken  and  meat  >'i<t  up. 
8  qts.  water. 
i  lb.  Italian  macaroni,  in  inch  lengths. 

Boil  the  meat  alone  in  the  water  for  three  hours  or 
until  it  is  reduced  to  shreds ;  and  the  macaroni  until  ten- 
der, in  enough  water  to  cover  it,  in  a  vessel  by  itself.  Add 
a  little  butter  to  the  macaroni  when  nearly  done.  Strain 
the  meat  out  of  soup,  season  to  taste,  put  in  macaroni  and 
the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled ;  let  it  boil  up,  and  serve. 

You  can  make  macaroni  soup  of  this  by  boiling  half, 
instead  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound,  in  the  second  vessel,  and 
adding  the  above  quantity  of  veal  broth.  In  this  case, 
send  on  with  it  a  plate  of  grated  cheese,  that  those  who 
cannot  relish  macaroni  without  this  may  put  it  in  the  soup. 
Take  care  that  the  macaroni  does  not  break  while  stewing. 
Add  butter  in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  macaroni. 
(Parmesan  cheese  is  best  for  this  purpose,  next,  ripe  old 
English  cheese.) 


HEAT  SOUPS.  27 

Beef  Soup  (brown). 

3  lb&  beef  cut  into  strips.    3  onions.    3  qts.  water. 

Put  beef  and  water  into  the  saucepan  and  boil  for  one 
hour.  Meanwhile,  slice  the  onions  and  fry  them  in 
butter  to  a  light  brown.  Drop  into  the  pot,  with  a  half- 
teaspoonfnl  of  cloves,  half  as  much  pepper,  same  quantity 
of  mace  as  pepper,  a  pinch  of  allspice,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  essence  of  celery  or  a  head  of  fresh  celery;  also 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  savory  or  sweet  marjoram, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Stew  all  for 
two  hours  more,  or  until  the  beef  has  boiled  to  pieces. 
Strain  the  soup  and  returu  to  the  fire.  Salt  to  taste,  and 
just  before  taking  it  off,  pour  in  a  glass  of  brown  sherry 
or  Madeira  wine. 

Mutton  or  Lamb  Broth.  >I< 

4  lbs.  mutton  or  lamb — kan — cut  into  small  pieces. 
1  gallon  water.  }  teacupful  rice. 

Boil  the  unsalted  meat  for  two  hours,  slowly,  in  a  cov* 
ered  vessel.  Soak  the  rice  in  enough  warm  water  to  cover 
it,  and  at  the  end  of  this  time  add  it,  water  and  all,  to 
the  boiling  soup.  Cook  an  hour  longer,  stirring  watch- 
fully from  time  to  time,  lest  the  rice  should  settle  and  ad- 
here to  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  Beat  an  egg  to  a  froth 
and  stir  into  a  cup  of  cold  milk,  into  which  has  been 
rubbed  smoothly  a  tablespoonful  of  rice  or  wheat  flour. 
Mix  with  this,  a  little  at  a  time,  some  of  the  scalding 
liquor,  until  the  egg  is  so  far  cooked  that  there  is  no  dan- 
ger of  curdling  in  the  soup.  Pour  into  the  pot,  when  you 
have  taken  out  the  meat,  season  with  parsley,  thyme,  pep- 
per, and  salt.  Boil  up  fairly,  and  serve.  If  allowed  to 
stand  on  the  fire,  it  is  apt  to  burn. 

This  soup  may  be  made  from  the  liquor  in  which  a  leg 
of  mutton  has  been  boiled,  provided  too  much  salt  was 


28  COMMON  s^NBE. 

not  put  in  with  it.  It  is  especially  good  when  the  stock 
is  chicken  broth.  For  the  sick  it  is  palatable  and  nutri- 
tious with  the  rice  left  in.  When  strained  it  makes  a  nice 
white  table  soup,  and  is  usually  relished  by  all. 

Vermicelli  Soup.    ^ 
4  lbs.  lamb,  from  which  every  particle  of  &t  has 

been  removed. 
1  lb.  veal. 

A  slice  of  corned  ham. 
6  qts.  water. 

Cut  up  the  meat,  cover  it  with  two  quarts  of  water,  and 
set  it  hack  on  the  range  to  heat  very  gradually,  keeping  it 
covered  closely.  At  the  end  of  an  hour,  add  four  quarts 
of  btuling  water,  and  cook  until  the  meat  is  in  shreds. 
Season  with  salt,  sweet  herbs,  a  chopped  shallot,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  when  these  have 
boiled  iu  the  soup  for  ten  minutes,  strain  and  return  to 
the  fire.  Have  ready  about  a  third  of  a  pound  of  vermi- 
celli which  has  been  boiled  tender  in  clear  water.  Add 
this;  boil  up  once,  and  pour  out. 

Mock-Turtle  or  Calf's  Head  Soup.  >j< 

1  large  calf's  head,  well  cleaned  and  washed. 
4  pig's  feet. 

This  soup  should  always  be  prepared  the  day  before  it 
is  to  be  served  up.  Lay  the  head  and  feet  in  the  bottom 
of  a  large  pot,  aud  cover  with  six  quarts  of  water.  Let  it 
boil  three  hours,  or  until  the  flesh  will  slip  easily  from  the 
bones.  Take  out  the  head,  leaving  in  the  feet,  and  allow 
these  to  boil  steadily  while  you  cut  the  meat  from  the 
head.  Select  with  care  enough  of  the  fatty  portions  which 
lie  on  the  top  of  the  head  and  the  cheeks  to  fill  a  tea-cup, 
and  set  them  aside  to  cool.  Remove  the  brains  to  a  saucer 
and  also  set  aside.  Chop  the  rest  of  the  meat  with  the 
tongue  very  fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  powdered  mar- 


MEAT  SOUPS.  29 

joram  and  thyme,  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  the  same  of 
mace,  half  as  much  allspice,  and  a  grated  nutmeg,  and 
return  to  the  pot.  When  the  flesh  falls  from  the  bones  of 
the  pig's  feet,  remove  these  from  the  pot,  leaving  in  the 
gelatinous  meat.  Let  all  boil  together  slowly,  without 
removing  the  cover,  for  two  hours  more;  take  the  soup 

• 

from  the  fire  and  set  it  away  until  the  next  day.  An  hour 
before  dinner,  take  off  every  particle  of  the  fat  and  set  on 
as  much  of  the  stock  to  warm  as  you  need.  When  it  boils 
strain  carefully,  and  drop  in  the  meat  you  have  reserved, 
which,  when  cold,  should  be  cut  into  small  squares.  Have 
these  all  ready,  as  well  as  the  force-  meat  balls.  To  prepare 
these,  rub  the  yolks  of  five  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  paste  in  a 
wooden  bowl  or  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar  with  the  back  of 
a  silver  tablespoon,  adding  gradually  the  brains  to  moisten 
them,  also  a  little  butter  and  salt.  Mix  with  these  two  eggs 
beaten  very  light,  flour  your  hands,  and  make  this  paste 
into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg.  Throw  them 
into  the  soup  five  minutes  before  you  take  it  from  the  fire; 
stir  in  three  large  tablespoon fuls  of  browned  flour  rubbed 
smooth  in  three  great  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  let  it  boil 
up  well,  and  finish  the  seasoning  by  the  addition  of  a  glass 
and  a  hslfofgood  wine — Sherry  or  Madeira — and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon.  It  should  not  boil  more  than  half  an  hour  on 
the  second  day.     Serve  with  sliced  lemon. 

If  the  directions  be  closely  followed,  the  result  is  sure 
to  be  satisfactory,  and  the  task  is  really  much  less  trouble- 
some than  it  appears  to  be. 

GiBLET  Soup. 
Feet,  neck,  pinions,  and  giblets  of  three  chickens, 

or  of  two  ducks  or  two  geese. 
1}  lb.  veal. 
}  lb.  ham. 
3  qts.  water. 


30  COMMON  SENSE. 

Crack  the  bones  into  small  pieces,  and  cut  the  meat  into 
strips.  Put  all  together  with  the  giblets  over  the  fire, 
with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  and  a  pinch  of  allspice. 
Stew  slowly  for  two  hours.  Take  out  the  giblets  and  set 
them  aside  in  a  pan  where  they  will  keep  warm.  Take 
up  a  teacupful  of  the  hot  soup  and  stir  into  this  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  which  has  been  wet  with 
cold  water  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste;  then,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Return  to  the  pot  and  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes ;  season  at  the  last  with  a  glass  of  brown 
sherry  and  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  or  walnut  catsup. 
A  little  Worcestershire  sauce  is  an  improvement.  Finally, 
chop  and  add  the  giblets,  and  boil  up  once. 

Brown  Gravy  Soup. 

3  lbs.  beef — lean  and  coarse. 
1  carrot. 

1  turnip. 

1  head  of  celery. 

6  onions,  if  small  button  onions — one,  if  large. 

4  qts.  water. 

Have  ready  some  nice  dripping  in  a  frying-pan.  Slice 
the  onions  and  fry  them  brown.  Take  them  out  and  set 
them  by  in  a  covered  pan  to  keep  warm.  Cut  the  beef  into 
bits  an  inch  long  and  half  an  inch  thick,  and  fry  them  brown 
also,  turning  frequently  lest  they  should  burn.  Chop  the 
vegetables  and  put  them  with  the  meat  and  onions  into  a 
covered  pot.  Pour  on  the  water  and  let  all  stew  together 
for  two  hours.  Then  throw  in  salt  and  pepper  and  boil  one 
hour  longer,  skimming  very  carefully.  Strain  ;  put  back 
over  the  fire  with  the  white  and  shell  of  an  egg;  boil  slowly 
to  make  the  liquid  perfectly  clear,  skim,  strain,  and  add  a 
handful  of  vermicelli  that  has  been  boiled  separately  and 
drained  dry.   Put  in  the  vermicelli  after  the  soup  is  poured 


M£AT  SOUPS.  31 

into  the  tureen.  Do  not  stir  before  it  goes  to  table. 
Borne  persons  prefer  to  add  half  a  glass  of  pale  Sherry,  or 
white  wine. 

Veal  and  Sago  Soup. 

2i  lbs.  veal  chopped  fine. 
i  lb.  pearl  sago. 

1  pt.  milk,  with  a  pinch  of  soda  stirred  in. 
4  eggs. 

4  qts.  water. 

Put  on  the  veal  and  water,  and  boil  slowly  until  the 
liquid  is  reduced  to  about  one-half  the  original  quantity. 
Strain  out  the  shreds  of  meat,  and  put  the  soup  again  over 
the  fire.  Meanwhile  the  sago  should  be  washed  m  several 
waters,  and  soaked  half  an  hour  in  warm  water  enough  to 
cover  it  Stir  it  into  the  strained  broth  and  boil — stirring 
very  often  to  prevent  lumping  or  scorching — half  an  hour 
more.  Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling ;  beat  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  very  light ;  mix  with  the  milk  gradually,  as  in 
making  boiled  custard,  and  pour — stirring  all  the  while — 
into  the  soup.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  boil  up  once 
to  cook  the  eggs,  and  serve.  Should  the  liquid  be  too  thick 
after  putting  in  the  eggs,  replenish  with  boiling  water  It 
should  be  about  the  consistency  of  hot  custard. 

This  soup  is  very  good,  especially  if  chicken  broth 
should  be  substituted  for  the  veal  and  pearl  tapioca  for 
sago.  It  ^is  strengthening  to  invalids,  and  especially 
beneficial  to  those  sufiering  from  colds  and  pulmonary 
affectiopo. 

Chicken  Soup.  >3^ 

2  young  fowls,  or  one  full-grown. 
}  lb.  corned  ham. 

1  gallon  of  water. 


32  COMMON  SENSE. 

Cut  the  fowls  into  pieces  as  for  fricassee.  Put  these 
with  the  ham  into  the  pot  with  a  quart  of  water,  or  enough 
to  cover  them  fairly.  Stew  for  an  hour,  if  the  fowls  are 
tender ;  if  tough,  until  you  can  cut  easily  into  the  breast 
Take  out  the  breasts,  leaving  the  rest  of  the  meat  in  the 
pot,  and  add  the  remainder  of  the  water — boiling  hot. 
Keep  the  soup  stewing  slowly  while  you  chop  up  the 
white  meat  you  have  selected.  Rub  the  yolks  of  four 
hard-boiled  eggs  smooth  in  a  mortar  or  bowl,  moistening 
to  a  paste  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  soup.  Mix  with  these 
a  handful  of  fine  bread-crumbs  and  the  chopped  meat, 
and  make  it  into  small  balls.  When  the  chicken  is  reduced 
to  shreds,  strain  out  the  meat  and  bones.  Season  the  soup 
with  salt  and  white  pepper,  with  a  bunch  of  chopped 
parsley.  Drop  in  the  prepared  force-meat,  and  after  boil- 
ing ten  minutes  to  incorporate  the  ingredients  well,  add, 
a  little  at  a  time,  a  pint  of  rich  milk  thickened  with  flour. 
Boil  up  once  and  serve. 

A  chicken  a  year  old  would  make  better  soup  than  a 
younger  fowl,  if  care  be  taken  to  cook  it  very  slowly. 

Venison  Soup.   ^ 

3  lbs.  of  venison.     What  are  considered  the  in- 
ferior pieces  will  do. 
1  lb.  corned  ham  or  salt  pork. 
1  onion. 
1  head  of  celery. 

Cut  up  the  meat ;  chop  the  vegetables,  and  put  on  with 
just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  keeping  on  the  lid  of 
the  pot  all  the  while,  and  stew  slowly  for  one  hour.  Then 
add  three  quarts  of  boiling  water,  with  a  few  blades  of 
mace  and  a  dozen  whole  peppers.    Or,  should  you  prefer, 


MEAT  SOUF8.  33 

a  little  cayenne.  Boil  two  hours  longer,  salt,  and  strain. 
Beturn  the  liquor  to  the  pot ;  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  wet 
into  a  smooth  thin  paste  with  cold  water ;  add  a  table- 
spoonful of  walnut  or  mushroom  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of 
Worcestershire  or  other  pungent  sauce,  and  a  generous 
glass  of  Madeira  or  brown  Sherry. 

Hare  or  Rabbit  Soup. 

Dissect  the  rabbit,  crack  the  bones,  and  prepare  precisely 
as  you  would  the  venison  soup,  only  putting  in  three 
small  onions  instead  of  one,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 
Hares  which  are  too  tough  to  be  cooked  in  any  other  way, 
make  excellent  game  soup.  Also,  the  large  gray  squirrel 
of  the  Middle  and  Southern  States. 

Ox-Tail  Soup. 

1  ox-tail. 

2  lbs.  lean  beef. 
4  carrots. 

3  onions. 
Thyme. 

6  qts.  of  water. 

Cut  the  tail  into  several  pieces  and  fry  brown  in  but- 
ter. Slice  the  onions  and  two  carrots,  and  when  you 
remove  the  ox-tail  from  the  frying-pan,  put  in  these  and 
brown  them  also.  When  done,  tie  them  in  a  bag  with  a 
bunch  of  thyme  and  drop  into  the  soup-pot.  Lay  the 
pieces  of  ox-tail  in  the  same ;  then  the  meat  cut  into  small 
slices.  Grate  over  them  the  two  whole  carrots,  and  add 
six  quarts  of  cold  water,  with  pepper  and  salt.  Boil 
from  four  to  six  hours,  in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the 
tail.  Strain  fifteen  minutes  before  serving  it,  and  thicken 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  browned  flour.  Boil  ten 
minutes  longer. 

2* 


34  OOMMON  SENSE. 

FISH  SOUPS. 
Oyster  Soup  (No.  1).  Hf* 

2  qts.  of  oysters. 

1  qt  of  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  teacupful  water. 

Strain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  add  to  it  the  water, 
and  set  it  over  the  fire  to  heat  slowly  in  a  covered  vessel. 
When  it  is  near  boiling,  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  add 
the  oysters,  and  let  them  stew  until  they  "  ruffle  "  on  the 
edge.  This  will  be  in  about  five  minutes.  Then  put  in  the 
butter  with  the  milk  which  has  been  heated  in  a  separate 
vessel,  and  stir  well  for  two  minutes. 

Serve  with  sliced  lemon  and  oyster  or  cream  crackers. 
Some  use  mace  and  nutmeg  in  seasoning.  The  crowning 
excellence  in  oyster  soup  is  to  have  it  cooked  just  enough. 
The  plumpness  of  the  main  body  and  ruffled  edge  are 
indices  of  their  right  condition. 

Oyster  Soup  (No.  2). 

2  qts.  of  oysters. 
2  eggs. 

1  qt.  of  milk. 

1  teacupful  of  water. 

Strain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  into  a  saucepan,  pour 
in  with  it  the  water.  Season  with  cayenne  pepper  and  a 
little  salt,  a  half-teaspoonful  of  mingled  nutmeg,  mace,  and 
cloves.  When  the  liquor  is  almost  boiling,  add  half  the 
oysters  chopped  finely  and  boil  five  minutes  quite  briskly. 
Strain  the  soup  and  return  to  saucepan.  Have  ready  some 
force-meat  balls,  not  larger  than  marbles,  made  of  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  boiled  hard  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste 


FISH  SOUPS.  35 

with  a  little  butter,  then  mix  with  six  raw  oysters  chopped 
very  finely,  a  little  salt,  and  a  raw  egg  well  beaten, 
to  bind  the  ingredients  together.  Flour  your  hands  well 
and  roll  the  force-meat  into  pellets,  laying  them  upon  a 
cold  plate,  so  as  not  to  touch  one  another  until  needed. 
Then  put  the  reserved  whole  oysters  into  the  hot  soup,  and 
when  it  begins  to  boil  again,  drop  in  the  force-meat  mar- 
bles. Boil  until  the  oysters  "  ruffle,"  by  which  time  the 
balls  will  also  be  done.    Add  the  hot  milk. 

Serve  with  sliced  lemon  and  crackers.  A  liberal  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  stirred  in  gently  at  the  last  is  an  im- 
provement 

Clam  Soup. 
50  clams. 

1  qt.  milk. 

1  pint  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

Drain  off  the  liquor  from  the  clams  and  put  it  over  the 
fire  with  a  dozen  whole  peppers,  a  few  bits  of  cayenne 
pods,  half  a  dozen  blades  of  mace,  and  salt  to  taste.  Let 
it  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  put  in  the  clams  and  boil  half 
an  hour  quite  fast,  keeping  the  pot  closely  covered.  If 
you  dislike  to  see  the  whole  spices  in  the  tureen,  strain 
them  out  before  the  clams  are  added.  At  the  end  of  the 
half  hour  add  the  milk,  which  has  been  heated  to  scald- 
ing, not  boiling,  in  another  vessel.  Boil  up  again,  taking 
care  the  soup  does  not  burn,  and  put  in  the  butter.  Then 
serve  without  delay.  If  you  desire  a  thicker  soup  stir  a 
tablespoonful  of  rice-flour  or  corn-starch  into  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  put  in  with  the  quart  of  hot 

Cat-fish  Soup.  >?< 

Those  who  have  only  seen  the  bloated,  unsightly  "  horn- 
pouts  "  that  play  the  scavengers  about  city  wharves,  are 
excusable  for  entertaining  a  prejudice  against  them  as  an 


36 


COMMOK  BEX8E. 


article  of  food.  But  the  small  cat-fish  of  our  inland  lakes 
and  streams  are  altogether  respectable,  except  in  their 
unfortunate  name. 

6  cat-fish,  in  average  weight  half  a  pound  apiece. 
i  lb.  salt  pork. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  head  of  celery,  or  a  small  bag  of  celery  seed. 

Skin  and  clean  the  fish  and  cut  them  up.  Chop  the 
pork  into  small  pieces.  Put  these  together  into  the  pot, 
with  two  quarts  of  water,  chopped  sweet  herbs,  and  the 
celery  seasoning.  Roil  for  an  hour,  or  until  fish  and  pork 
are  in  rags,  and  str  lin,  if  you  desire  a  regular  soup  for  a 
first  course.  Return  to  the  saucepan  aiid  add  the  milk, 
which  should  be  already  hot.  Next  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
froth,  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  up 
once,  and  serve  with  dice  of  toasted  bread  on  the  top. 
Pass  sliced  lemon,  or  walnut  or  butternut  pickles  with  it. 

Eel  Soup. 

Eel  soup  is  made  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  cat- 
fish, only  boiled  longer.  A  chopped  onion  is  no  detriment 
to  the  flavor  of  either,  and  will  remove  the  muddy  taste 
ifbifh  these  fish  sometimes  acquire  from  turbid  streams. 

Lobster  Soup. 

2  qts.  veal  or  chicken  broth,  well  strained. 

1  large  lobster. 

2  eggs — boiled  hard. 

Boil  the  lobster  and  extract  the  meat,  setting  aside  the 
coral  in  a  cool  place.  Cut  or  chop  up  the  meat  found  in 
the  claws.  Rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  paste  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter.  Pound  and  rub  the  claw-meat  in 
the  same  manner,  and  mix  with  the  yolks.  Beat  up  a  raw 
egg,  and  stir  into  the  paste ;  season  with  pepper,  salt;  and 


Fiaii  soupa  37 

if  you  like,  mace ;  make  into  force-meat  balJs,  and  set 
awaj  with  the  coral  to  cool  and  harden.  By  this  time 
the  stock  should  be  well  heated,  when  put  in  the  rest  of 
the  lobster-meat  cut  into  square  bits.  Boil  fifteen  min- 
utes; pound  the  coral  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  or 
earthenware  bowl,  rubbing  it  into  a  fine,  even  paste,  with 
the  addition  of  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  broth,  gradually 
worked  in  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  boiled  starch. 
Stir  very  carefully  into  the  hot  soup.  Lastly,  drop  in  the 
force-meat  balls,  after  which  do  not  stir,  lest  they  should 
break.  Bimmer  a  few  minutes  to  cook  the  raw  ^gg ;  but, 
if  allowed  to  boil,  the  soup  will  darken. 

Crab  soup  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  excepting  the 
coralline  process,  crabs  being  destitute  of  that  dainty. 

Green  Turtle  Soup. 

A  glass  of  Madeira. 

2  onions. 

Bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 

5  qts  of  water. 

4  lbs.  of  turtle-meat. 

Chop  up  the  coarser  parts  of  the  turtle-meat,  with  the 
entrails  and  bones.  Add  to  them  four  quarts  of  water, 
and  stew  four  hours  with  the  herbs,  onions,  pepper,  and 
salt  Stew  very  slowly,  but  do  not  let  it  cease  to  boil  dur- 
ing this  time.  At  the  end  of  four  hours  strain  the  soup, 
and  add  the  finer  parts  of  the  turtle  and  the  green  fat, 
which  has  been  simmered  for  one  hour  in  two  quarts  of 
water.  Thicken  with  browned  flour ;  return  to  the  soup- 
pot,  and  simmer  gently  an  hour  longer.  If  there  are  eggs 
in  the  turtle,  boil  them  in  a  separate  vessel  for  four  hours, 
and  throw  into  the  soup  before  taking  it  up.  If  not,  put 
in  force-meat  balls;  then  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  the 


38  OOMMON  BEKBE. 

wine ;  beat  up  once  and  pour  out.     Some  cooks  add  the 

finer  meat  before  straining,  boiling  all  together  five  hours ; 

then  strain,  thicken,  and  put  in  the  green  fat,  cut  into 

lumps  an  inch  long.     This  makes  a  handsomer  soup  than 

if  the  meat  is  left  in. 

For  the  mock  eggs,  take  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled 

eggs,  and  one  raw  egg  well  beaten.      Rub  the  boiled  eggs 

into  a  paste  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  bind  with  the 

raw  egg.  roll  into  pellets  the  size  and  shape  of  turtle-eggs, 

and  lay  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes  before  dropping 

into  the  soup. 

Force-mecU  balls  for  the  above. 

Six  tablespoonfuls  turtle-meat  chopped  very  fine.  Rub 
to  a  paste  with  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs ;  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and,  if  convenient,  a  little  oyster- 
liquor.  Season  with  cayenne,  mace,  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  white  sugar.  Bind  with  a  well-beaten  egg ;  shape 
into  balls ;  dip  in  egg,  then  powdered  cracker,  fry  in  but- 
ter, and  drop  into  the  soup  when  it  is  served. 

Green  turtle  for  soups  is  now  within  the  reach  of  every 
private  family,  being  well  preserved  in  air-tight  cans. 


FISH. 
Boiled  Codfish.  {Fresh,)  ^ 
Lay  the  fish  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted,  for  half  an 
hour  before  it  is  time  to  cook  it.  When  it  has  been  wiped 
free  of  the  salt  and  water,  wrap  it  in  a  clean  linen  cloth 
kept  for  such  purposes.  The  cloth  should  be  dredged  with 
flour,  to  prevent  sticking.  Sew  up  the  edges  in  such  a 
manner  as  to  envelop  the  fish  entirely,  yet  have  but  one 
thickness  of  the  cloth  over  any  part.  The  wrapping 
should  be  fitted  neatly  to  the  shape  of  the  piece  to  be 
cooked.  Put  into  the  fish-kettle,  pour  on  plenty  of  hot 
water,  and  boil  briskly — fifteen  minutes  for  wuxh  pound. 


FI8B.  39 

Have  ready  a  sauce  prepared  thus : — 

To  one  gill  boiling  water  add  as  much  milk,  and  when 
it  is  scalding-hot,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  rolled 
thickly  in  flour;  as  this  thickens,  two  beaten  eggs.  Season 
with  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  return  to  the  fire,  and 
after  one  good  boil  add  a  dozen  capers,  or  pickled  nas- 
turtium seeds,  or,  if  you  prefer,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar  in 
which  celery-seeds  have  been  steeped.  Put  the  fish  into  a 
hot  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it  Some  serve  in  a 
butter-boat;  but  I  fancy  that  the  boiling  sauce  applied  to 
the  steaming  fish  imparts  a  richness  it  cannot  gain  later. 
Grarnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  circles  of  hard-boiled 
riggs,  laid  around  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

Rock-Fish. 

Rock-fish  and  river-bass  are  very  nice,  cooked  as  above, 
but  do  not  need  to  be  boiled  so  long  as  codfish. 

BoiLEB  Codfish.     (SaU.) 

Put  the  fish  to  soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  water — as 
early  as  eight  o'clock  in  the  evening.  Change  this  for 
more  warm  water  at  bed-time  and  cover  closely.  Change 
again  in  the  morning  and  wash  ofi*  the  salt.  Two  hours 
before  dinner  plunge  into  very  cold  water.  This  makes  it 
firm.  Finally,  set  over  the  fire  with  enough  lukewarm 
water  to  cover  it,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound. 
Drain  well ;  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  it  egg- 
sauce  prepared  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  only  substitut- 
ing the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  rubbed  to  a  paste 
with  butter,  for  the  beaten  raw  egg. 

This  is  a  useful  receipt  for  country  housekeepers,  who  can 
seldom  procure  fresh  cod.  Salt  mackerel,  prepared  in  the 
same  way,  will  repay  the  care  and  time  required,  so  supe- 
rior is  it  to  the  Friday's  dish  of  salt  fish,  as  usually  served. 


40  COMMOK  BEHBS. 

Should  the  cold  fish  left  oyer  be  used  for  fish-balls — as 
it  should  be — it  will  be  found  that  the  sauce  which  has 
soaked  into  it  while  hot  has  greatly  improved  it 

Codfish  Balls.  >{< 

Prepare  the  fish  precisely  as  for  boiling  whole.  Cut  in 
pieces  when  it  has  been  duly  washed  and  soaked,  and  boU 
twenty  minutes.  Turn  ofi'the  water,  and  cover  with  fresh 
from  the  boiling  tea-kettle.  Boil  twenty  minutes  more, 
drain  the  fish  very  dry,  and  spread  upon  a  dish  to  cool. 
When  perfectly  cold,  pick  to  pieces  with  a  fork,  removing 
every  vestige  of  skin  and  bone,  and  shredding  very  fine. 
When  thb  is  done,  add  an  equal  bulk  of  mashed  potato ; 
work  into  a  stiff  batter  by  adding  a  lump  of  butter  and 
sweet  milk,  and  if  you  want  to  have  them  very  nice,  a 
beaten  egg.  Flour  your  hands  and  make  the  mixture  into 
balls  or  cakes.  Drop  them  into  deep  boiling  lard  or  good 
dripping,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Plainer  fish-cakes 
may  be  made  of  the  ood  and  potatoes  alone,  moulded 
round  like  biscuit    In  any  shape  the  dish  is  popular. 

Salt  Codfish  stewed  with  Eqos. 

Prepare  the  fish  as  for  balls.  Heat  almost  to  boiling 
a  pint  of  rich,  sweet  milk,  and  stir  into  it,  gradually  and 
carefully,  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
a  little  chopped  parsley  and  butter,  with  pepper,  lastly  the 
fish.  Boil  up  once  and  turn  into  a  deep  covered  dish,  or 
chafing-dish  lined  with  buttered  toast.  Eat  hot  for  break- 
fast or  supper. 

Codfish  and  Potato  -Stew.  ^< 

Soak,  boil,  and  pick  the  fish,  if  salt,  as  for  fish-balls.  If 
fresh,  boil  and  pick  into  bits.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of 
mashed  potatoes,  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
milky  enough  to  make  it  very  soft    Put  into  a  skillet, 


FISH.  41 

and  add  a  little  boiliDg  water  to  keep  it  from  burning. 
Turn  and  toss  constantly  until  it  is  smoking  hot  but 
not  dry ;  add  pepper  and  parsley,  and  dish. 

Boiled  Mackebel.  (Freak.)  ^ 

Clean  the  mackerel  and  wipe  carefully  with  a  dry, 
clean  cloth ;  wash  thera  lightly  with  another  cloth  dipped 
in  vinegar ;  wrap  each  in  a  coarse  linen  cloth  (floured) 
basted  closely  to  the  shape  of  the  fish.  Put  them  into  a 
pot  with  enough  salted  water  to  cover  them,  and  boil 
them  gently  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Drain  them  well. 
Strain  a  teacupful  of  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled, 
and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  walnut  cat- 
sup, some  anchovy  paste  or  sauce,  and  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon.  Let  this  boil  up  well  and  add  a  lump  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  wet  in 
cold  water.  Boil  up  again  and  serve  in  the  sauce-boat.  This 
makes  a  brown  sauce.  You  can  substitute  egg-sauce  if 
you  like.    Garnish  with  parsley  and  nasturtium  blossoms. 

Broiled  Mackerel.   (Fresh.) 

Clean  the  mackerel,  wash,  and  wipe  dry.  Split  it  open, 
so  that  when  laid  flat  the  backbone  will  be  in  the  middle. 
Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt,  and  lay  on  a  buttered  gridiron 
over  a  clear  fire,  with  the  inside  downward,  until  it  begins 
to  brown  ;  then  turn  the  other.  When  quite  done,  lay  on 
a  hot  dish  and  butter  it  plentifully.  Turn  another  hot 
dish  over  the  lower  one,  and  let  it  stand  two  or  three 
minutes  before  sending  to  table. 

Broiled  Mackerel.  (Salt.) 

Soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  water.  Change  this  early 
in  the  morning  for  very  cold,  and  let  the  fish  lie  in  this 
until  time  to  cook.  Then  proceed  as  with  the  fresh 
mackereL 


4'iC  COMMOW  SElfBS. 

Boiled  Halibut.  >^ 

Lay  in  cold  salt  and  water  for  an  hour.  Wipe  dry  and 
score  the  skin  in  squares.  Put  into  the  kettle  with  cold 
salted  water  enough  to  cover  it.  It  is  so  firm  in  texture 
that  you  can  boil  without  a  cloth  if  you  choose.  Let  it 
heat  gradually,  and  boil  from  half  to  three-quarters  of 
an  hour,  in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  piece,  allowing 
ten  minutes  to  the  pobnd.  Drain  and  accompany  by  egg- 
sauce— -either  poured  over  the  fish  or  in  a  sauce-boat.  Send 
around  sliced  lemon  with  it 

Save  the  cold  remnants  of  the  fish  and  what  sauce  is  left 
until  next  morning.  Pick  out  as  you  would  cod,  mix  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  mashed  potato,  moisten  with  the 
sauce,  or  with  milk  and  butter  if  you  have  no  sauce,  put 
it  into  a  skillet,  and  stir  until  it  is  very  hot  Do  not 
burn.    Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Baked  Halibut.  ^ 

Take  a  piece  of  halibut  weighing  five  or  six  pounds, 
and  lay  in  salt  and  water  for  two  hours.  Wipe  dry  and 
score  the  outer  skin.  Set  in  the  baking-pan  in  a  tolerably 
hot  oven,  and  bake  an  hour,  basting  often  with  butter 
and  water  heated  together  in  a  saucepan  or  tin  cup.  When 
a  fork  will  penetrate  it  easily,  it  is  done.  It  should  be  of 
a  fine  brown.  Take  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan —  add  a 
little  boiling  water  should  there  not  be  enough — stir  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  walnut  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  thicken  with 
browned  flour,  previously  wet  with  cold  water.  Boil  up 
once  and  put  into  sauce-boat. 

There  is  no  finer  preparation  of  halibut  than  this,  which 
is,  however,  comparatively  little  known.  Those  who  have 
eaten  it  usually  prefer  it  to  boiled  and  broiled.     You  can 


FISH.  43 

use  what  is  left  for  the  same  purpose  as  the  fragments  of 

boiled  halibut. 

Halibut  Steak.  >J< 

Wash  and  wipe  the  steaks  dry.  Beat  up  two  or  three 
eggs,  and  roll  out  some  Boston  or  other  brittle  crackers 
upon  the  kneading-board  until  they  are  fine  as  dust.  Dip 
each  steak  into  the  beaten  egg,  then  into  the  bread  crumbs 
Twhen  you  have  salted  the  fish),  and  fry  in  hot  fat,  lard, 
or  nice  dripping. 

Or,  you  can  broil  the  steak  upon  a  buttered  gridiron, 

over  a  clear  fire,  first  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper. 

When  done,  lay  in  a  hot  dish,  butter  well,  and  cover 

closely. 

Devilled  Halibut. 

Mince  a  pound  of  cold  boiled  or  baked  halibut,  or  the 
fragments  of  halibut  steak,  and  make  for  it  the  following 
dressing:  The  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed 
smooth  with  the  back  of  a  silver  spoon,  or  in  a  Wedgewood 
mortar,  and  when  there  remain  no  lumps  in  it,  work  into  a 
soft  paste  with  a  tablespoonful  of  salad  oil.  Next  beat  in  two 
teaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  a 
pinch  of  cayenne,  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  a  little  anchovy  paste  if  you  have  it,  and  finally,  a 
little  at  a  time  to  prevent  lumping,  a  small  teacupful  of 
vinegar  in  which  celery-seed  have  been  steeped.  It  is  easy 
to  keep  a  bottle  of  this  on  hand  for  salads  and  sauces. 
Stir  all  thoroughly  into  the  minced  fish,  garnish  with  a 
chain  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  cut  into  rings,  with  a  small 
round  slice  of  pickled  beet  laid  within  each  link,  and'  you 
have  SL  piquant  and  pretty  salad  for  the  supper-table. 

Boiled  Salmon.    (Fresk)  >J< 

Wrap  the  fish,  when  you  have  washed  and  wiped  it,  in 
a  clean  linen  cloth — ^not  too  thick — ^baste  it  up  securely, 


44  CX>KXON  SENSE. 

and  put  into  the  &h-kettle.  Cover  with  cold  water  in 
which  has  been  melted  a  handful  of  salt.  Boil  slowly, 
allowing  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  each  pound.  When 
^  the  time  is  up,  rip  open  a  corner  of  the  cloth  and  test  the 
salmon  with  a  fork.  If  it  penetrate  easily,  it  is  done.  If 
not,  hastily  pin  up  the  cloth  and  cook  a  little  longer. 
8kim  off  the  scum  as  it  rises  to  the  top.  Have  ready  in 
another  saucepan  a  pint  of  cream — or  half  milk  and  half 
cream  will  do  (drop  a  tiny  bit  of  soda  into  it) — which  has 
been  heated  in  a  vessel  set  in  boiling  water ;  stir  into  this 
a  large  spoonful  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour,  a  little  salt  and 
chopped  parsley,  and  a  half-gill  of  the  water  in  which  the 
fiah  is  boiled.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  stirring  all  the  while. 
When  the  fish  is  done,  take  it  instantly  from  the  kettle, 
lay  it  an  instant  upon  a  folded  cloth  to  absorb  the  drip- 
pings; transfer  with  care  to  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  the 
boiled  cream  over  it,  reserving  enough  to  fill  a  small  sauce- 
boat.  Garnish  with  curled  parsley  and  circular  slices  of 
hard* boiled  yolks — leaving  out  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

After  serving  boiled  salmon  with  cream-sauce,  you  will 
never  be  quite  content  with  any  other.  If  you  cannot  get 
cream,  boil  a  pint  of  milk  and  thicken  with  arrow-root. 
It  is  not  so  nice,  but  many  will  not  detect  the  difference — 
real  cream  being  a  rare  commodity  in  town. 

You  may  pickle  what  is  left,  if  it  is  in  one  piece.  Or 
devil  it,  as  I  have  directed  you  to  treat  cold  halibut.  Or 
mince,  mixed  with  mashed  potato,  milk,  and  butter,  and 
stir  into  a  sort  of  stew.  Or,  once  again,  mix  with  mashed 
potato,  milk,  butter,  and  a  raw  egg  well-beaten ;  make 
into  cakes  or  balls,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  Or  dripping.  At 
any  rate,  let  none  of  it  be  lost,  it  being  at  once  one  of  our 
most  expensive  and  most  delicious  fish. 

Baked  Salmon.  >{< 
Wash  and   wipe  dry,  and  rub  with  pepper  and  salt 


45 

Some  add  a  soup^on  of  cayenne  and  powdered  maoe.  Lay 
the  fish  upon  a  grating  set  over  your  baking-pan ,  and 
roast  or  bake,  basting  it  freely  with  butter,  and,  toward 
the  last,  with  its  own  drippings  only.  Should  it  brown 
too  fast,  cover  the  top  with  a  sheet  of  white  paper  until 
the  whole  is  cooked.  When  it  is  done,  transfer  to  a  hot 
dish  and  cover  closely,  and  add  to  the  gravy  a  little 
hot  water  thickened  with  arrow-root  or  wheat  flour, — 
wet,  of  course,  first  with  cold  water, — a  great  spoonful  of- 
strained  tomato  sauce,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Boil  up 
and  serve  in  a  sauce  boat,  or  you  can  serve  with  cream 
sauce,  made  as  for  boiled  salmon.  Garnish  handsomely 
with  alternate  sprigs  of  parsley  and  the  bleached  tops  of 
celery,  with  ruby  bits  of  firm  currant  jelly  here  and  there. 
This  is  a  fine  dish  for  a  dinner-party.  A  glass  of  Sherry 
improves  the  first-named  sauce. 

Salmon  Steaks.  >J< 

Dry  well  with  a  cloth,  dredge  with  flour,  and  lay  them 
upon  a  well-buttered  gridiron,  over  clear  hot  coals.  Turn 
with  a  broad-bladed  knife  slipped  beneath,  and  a  flat  wire 
egg-beater  above,  lest  the  steak  should  break.  When 
done  to  a  light  brown,  lay  in  a  hot  dish,  butter  each  steak, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  closely,  and  serve. 

Pickled  Salmon.   (^Fresh.)  >J< 

Having  cleaned  your  fish,  cut  into  pieces  of  a  conveni- 
ent size  to  go  into  the  fish-kettle,  and  boil  in  salted  water 
as  for  the  table.  Drain  it  very  dry,  wipe  it  with  a  clean 
cloth,  and  set  it  aside  in  a  cool  place  until  next  morn- 
ing. 

Make  pickle  enough  to  cover  it  in  the  following  propor- 
tions :  2  quarts  vinegar,  a  dozen  blades  of  mace,  dozen 
white  peppers,  dozen   cloves,  two  teasponfuls  made  mus- 


46  COMMOlf  SENSE. 

tard,  three  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  the 
water  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled.  Let  them  boil  up 
once  hard,  that  you  may  skim  the  pickle.  Should  the 
spices  come  away  with  the  scum  in  large  quantities,  pick 
them  out  and  return  to  the  kettle.  Set  the  liquor  away 
in  an  earthenware  jar,  closely  covered,  to  keep  in  the 
flavor.  Next  morning  hang  it  over  a  brisk  fire,  and 
heat  to  boiling.  Meanwhile,  prepare  the  cooked  salmon 
by  cutting  into  pieces  an  inch  and  a  half  long  and 
half  an  inch  wide.  Cut  cleanly  and  regularly  with 
a  sharp  knife.  When  they  are  all  ready,  and  the 
liquor  is  on  the  boil,  drop  them  carefully  into  the  kettle. 
Let  the  pickle  boil  up  once  to  make  sure  the  salmon 
is  heated  through.  Have  ready  some  air-tight  glass  jars, 
such  as  you  use  for  canning  fruit  and  tomatoes.  Take  the 
salmon  from  the  kettle,  while  it  is  still  on  the  stove  or 
range,  with  a  wire-egg-beater,  taking  care  you  do  not 
break  the  pieces.  Drop  them  rapidly  into  the  jar,  pack- 
ing closely  as  you  go  on ;  fill  with  the  boiling  pickle 
until  it  overflows,  screw  on  the  top,  and  set  away  in  a  dark, 
cool  place.  Proceed  in  the  same  way  with  each  can  until 
all  are  full.  Salmon  thus  put  up  will  keep  good  for  yeara, 
as  I  can  testify  from  experience,  and  will  well  repay  the 
trouble  of  preparation.  You  can  vary  the  seasoning  to 
your  taste,  adding  a  shallot  or  two  minced  very  fine,  some 
celery  and  small  pods  of  cayenne  pepper,  which  always 
look  well  in  vinegar. 

Be  sure  that  the  contents  of  the  kettle  are  boiling  when 
transferred  to  the  cans,  that  they  are  not  allowed  time  to 
cool  in  the  transit,  that  the  elastic  on  the  can  is  properly 
adjusted,  and  the  top  screwed  down  tightly,  and  success  is 
certain.  I  would  call  the  attention  of  those  who  are  fond 
of  the  potted  spiced  salmon,  sold  at  a  high  price  in  grocery 
stores,  to  this  receipt  for  making  the  same  luxury  at  home 


FISH.  47 

It  ooets  less  by  one-half,  is  as  good,  and  U  always  on 

hand. 

Pickled  Salmon.  (^Salt.) 

Wash  the  salmon  in  two  or  three  waters,  rubbing  it 
lightly  with  a  coarse  cloth  to  remove  the  salt-crystals.  Then 
soak  over  night  in  tepid  water.  Exchange  this  in  the  morn- 
ing for  ice-cold,  and  let  the  fish  lie  in  the  latter  for  three 
hours.  Take  it  out,  wipe  dry,  and  cut  in  strips  as  directed 
in  the  foregoing  receipt.  Drop  these,  when  all  are  ready, 
in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  placed  alongside  of  a  kettle 
of  pickle  prepared  as  for  fresh  salmon.  Beside  these  have 
your  air-tight  jars,  covers  laid  in  readiness,  and  when  the 
salmon  has  boiled  five  minutes-^fairly  boiled,  not  simmered 
— ^fish  out  the  pieces  with  your  wire  spoon,  pack  rapidly 
into  your  can ;  fill  up  with  the  boiling  pickle  from  the 
other  kettle,  and  seal  instantly.  In  two  days  the  pickled 
salmon  will  be  fit  for  use,  and  is  scarcely  distinguishable 
from  that  made  of  fresh  fish.  It  has  the  advantage  of 
being  always  procurable,  and  of  comparative  cheapness, 
and  in  the  country  is  a  valuable  stand-by  in  case  of  unex- 
pected supper  company. 

Smoked  Salmon,  {Broiled.) 

Take  a  piece  of  raw  smoked  salmon  the  size  of  your 
hand,  or  larger  in  proportion  to  the  number  who  are  to  sit 
down  to  supper.  Wash  it  in  two  waters,  rubbing  off*  the 
salt.  Lay  in  a  skillet  with  enough  warm — not  hot — water 
to  cover  it;  let  it  simmer  fifteen  minutes,  and  boil  five. 
Remove  it,  wipe  dry,  and  lay  on  a  buttered  gridiron  to 
broil.  When  it  is  nicely  browned  on  both  sides,  transfer 
to  a  hot  dish ;  butter  liberally,  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Garnish  with  hillocks  of  grated  horse-radish  interspersed 
with  sprays  of  fresh  or  pickled  fennel-seed,  or  with  parsley. 

Baw  smoked  salmon  is  in  common  use  upon  the  supper- 


48  COMMON  8ENBE. 

table,  cut  into  smooth  strips  as  long  as  the  middle  finger, 
and  rather  wider ;  arranged  neatly  upon  a  garnished  dish, 
and  eaten  with  pepper-sauoe  or  some  other  pungent  condi- 
ment. 

Boiled  Shad.  (JVmA.)  >i< 

Gean,  wash,  and  wipe  the  fish.  A  roe  shad  is  best  for 
this  purpose.  Cleanse  the  roes  thoroughly,  and  having 
sprinkled  both  shad  and  eggs  with  salt,  wrap  in  separate 
cloths  and  put  into  a  fish-kettle,  side  by  side.  Cover  with 
salted  water,  and  boil  from  half  an  hour  to  three-quarters, 
in  proportion  to  the  size.  Experience  is  the  best  rule  as 
to  the  time.  When  you  have  once  cooked  fish  to  a  turn, 
note  the  weight  and  time,  and  you  will  be  at  no  loss  there- 
after. A  good  rule  is  to  make  a  pencilled  memorandum 
in  the  margin  of  the  receipt-book  opposite  certain  receipts. 

Serve  the  shad  upon  a  hot  dish,  with  a  boat  of  drawn 
butter  mingled  with  chopped  eggs  and  parsley,  or  egg-sauoe. 
Lay  the  roes  about  the  body  of  the  fish.  Garnish  with 
capers  and  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Boiled  8had.  (Salt.) 

Soak  the  fish  six  or  seven  hours  in  warm  water,  chang- 
ing it  several  times;  wipe  ofi*  all  the  salt  and  immerse  in 
ice-cold  water.  When  it  has  lain  in  this  an  hour,  put  into 
a  fish-kettle  with  enough  fresh  water  to  cover  it,  and  boil 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  in  proportion  to  the  size. 
Serve  in  a  hot  dish,  with  a  large  lump  of  butter  spread 
over  the  fish. 

Broiled  Shad.    (Fresh.)  >J< 

Wash,  wipe,  and  split  the  fish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  lay  it  upon  a  buttered  gridiron,  inside  down- 
ward. When  the  lower  side  is  browned,  turn  the  fish. 
One  of  medium  size  will  be  done  in  about  twenty  minutes. 


FISH.  49 

Serve  upon  a  hot  dish,  and  lay  a  good  piece  of  butter  upon 
the  fish. 

Broiled  Shad.    (Salt.) 

Soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  water.  Take  out  in  the 
morning  and  transfer  to  ice-cold  for  half  an  hour.  Wipe 
very  dry,  and  broil  as  you  do  fresh  shad. 

Fried  Shad. 

This  is  a  popular  dish  upon  Southern  tables,  and  is  good 
anywhere  Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  a  fine  roe-shad  ;  split 
and  cut  each  side  into  four  pieces,  leaving  out  the  head, 
and  removing  fins  and  tail.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  dredge  with  flour.  Have  ready  a  frying  pan  of 
boiling  hot  lard  or  drippings;  put  in  the  fish  and  fry 
brown,  turning  at  the  end  of  five  minutes  to  cook  the  other 
side.  Fry  the  roe  in  the  same  way ;  lay  the  fish  in  the 
middle  of  the  dish,  and  the  roe  outside  of  it;  garnish 
with  water-cresses  and  sprigs  of  pickled  cauliflower,  and 
eat  with  catsup. 

Baked  Shad.  >{< 

Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  the  fish,  which  should  be  a  large 
one.  Make  a  stufiing  of  grated  bread-crumbs,  butter, 
salt,  pepper,  and  sweet  herbs.  Stufi*  the  shad  and  sew  it 
up.  Lay  it  in  the  baking-pan,  with  a  cupful  of  water  to 
keep  it  from  burning,  and  bake  an  hour,  basting  with  but- 
ter and  water,  until  it  is  tender  throughout  and  well 
browned.  Take  it  up,  put  in  a  hot  dish  and  cover  tightly, 
while  you  boil  up  the  gravy  with  a  great  spoonful  of  cat- 
sup, a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  which  has  been  wet 
with  cold  water,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and,  if  you  want  to 
have  it  very  fine,  a  glass  of  Sherry  or  Madeira.  Garnish 
with  sliced  lemon  and  water-cresses.  You  may  pour  the 
gravy  around  the  fish,  or  serve  in  a  sauce-boat.  Of 
S 


50  COMMON  SENSE. 

course  you  take  out  the  thread  with  which  it  has  been 
sewed  up  before  serving  the  fish. 

Boiled  Sea-Basb. 

Clean  and  put  the  fish  into  the  fish-kettle,  with  salted 
water  enough  to  cover  it  when  you  have  enveloped  it  in 
the  fish-cloth.  A  medium-sized  fish  will  be  done  in  a  little 
over  half  an  hour.  But  do  not  boil  too  fast.  When 
done,  drain  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish.  Lay  sliced  boiled 
eggs  upon  and  about  it,  and  serve  with  egg-sauce,  mingled 
with  capers  and  nasturtium  seed. 

Fried  Sea-Bass. 

Use  smaller  fish  for  this  purpose  than  for  boiling. 
Clean,  wipe  dry,  inside  and  out,  dredge  with  flour  and 
season  with  salt.  Fry  in  hot  butter  or  dripping.  A  mix- 
ture, half  butter,  half  lard,  is  good  for  frying  fish.  The 
bass  should  be  done  to  a  delicate  brown — ^not  to  a  crisp. 
The  fashion  afiected  by  some  cooks  of  drying  fried  fish  to 
a  crust  is  simply  abominable. 

Fried  bass  are  a  most  acceptable  breakfast  dish. 

Sturgeon  Steak. 

Skin  the  steaks  carefully  and  lay  in  salted  water  (cold) 
for  au  hour,  to  remove  the  oily  taste,  so  offensive  to  most 
palates.  Then  wipe  each  steak  dry,  salt,  and  broil  over 
hot  coals  on  a  buttered  gridiron.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish 
when  you  have  buttered  and  peppered  them,  and  send  up 
garnished  with  parsley  and  accompanied  by  a  small  glass 
dish  containing  sliced  lemon. 

Or, 
You  can  pour  over  them  a  sauce  prepared  in  this  way : 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan,  and  stir 
until  it  is  brown — iMt  burned.  Add  a  half-teacupful  of 
boiling  water  in  which  has  been  stirred  a  tablespoonful  of 


FISH.  61 

browned  flour  previously  wet  with,  cold  water.  Add  salt, 
a  teaspoonful  Worcestershire  sauce  or  anchovy,  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  and  let  it  boil  up  well.  Pour  over  the  steaks 
when  you  have  arranged  them  in  the  dish. 

Baked  Sturgeon. 

A  piece  of  sturgeon  weighing  five  or  six  pounds  is 
enough  for  a  handsome  dish.  Skin  it  and  let  it  stand  in  * 
salt  and  water  for  half  an  hour  Parboil  it  to  remove  the 
oil.  Make  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  minute  bits  of  fat 
salt  pork,  sweet  herbs,  and  butter.  Gash  the  upper  part 
of  the  fish  quite  deeply,  and  rub  this  force-meat  well  in  ; 
put  in  a  baking-pan  with  a  little  water  to  keep  it  from 
burning,  and  bake  for  an  hour. 

Serve  with  a  sauce  of  drawn  butter,  in  which  has  been 
stirred  a  spoonful  of  caper  sauce  and  another  of  catsup. 

This  is  a  Virginia  receipt,  and  an  admirable  one. 

Mayonnaise.  {Fish.) 
Take  a  pound  or  so  of  cold  boiled  fish  (halibut,  rock,  or 
ood),  cut—  not  chop — into  pieces  an  inch  in  length.  Mix 
in  a  bowl  a  dressing  as  follows :  the  yolks  of  fotir  boiled 
eggs  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  salad  oil ;  add  to  these 
salt,  pepper,  mustard,  two  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  and, 
lastly,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Beat  the  mixture 
until  light,  and  just  before  pouring  it  over  the  fish,  stir 
in  lightly  the  frothed  white  of  a  raw  egg.  Serve  the  fish 
in  a  glass  dish,  with  half  the  dressing  stirred  in  with  it. 
Spread  the  remainder  over  the  top,  and  lay  blanched 
lettuce-leaves  around  the  edges,  to  be  eaten  with  it. 

Baked  Salmon-Trout.  >j< 
Those  who  have  eaten  this  prince  of  game  fish  in  the 
Adirondacks,  within  an  hour  after  he  has  left  the  lake, 
will  agree  with  me  that  he  never  has  such  justice  done  him 
at  any  other  time  as  when  baked  with  cream. 


62  OOMMON  SENSE. 

Handle  the  beauty  with  gentle  respect  while  cleaning, 
washing,  and  wiping  him,  and  lay  him  at  full  length,  still 
respectfully,  in  a  baking-pan,  with  just  enough  water  to 
keep  him  from  scorching.  If  large,  score  the  back-bone 
with  a  sharp  knife,  taking  care  not  to  mar  the  comeliness 
of  his  red-spotted  sides.  Bake  slowly,  basting  often  with 
butter  and  water.  By  the  time  he  is  done — and  he  should 
be  so  well-looked  after  that  his  royal  robe  hardly  shows  a 
seam  or  rent,  and  the  red  spots  are  still  distinctly  visible — 
have  ready  in  a  saucepan  a  cup  of  cream  ^diluted  with  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  lest  it  should  clot  in  heating — 
in  which  have  been  stirred  cautiously  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Heat  this 
in  a  vessel  set  within  another  of  boiling  water,  add  the 
gravy  from  the  dripping-pan,  boil  up  once  to  thicken,  and 
when  the  trout  is  laid — always  respectfully— in  a  hot  dish, 
pour  the  sauce  around  him  as  he  lies  in  state.  He  will 
take  kindly  to  the  creamy  bath,  and  your  guests  will  take 
kindly  to  him.  Garnish  with  a  wreath  of  crimson  nastur- 
tium blooms  and  dainty  sprigs  of  parsley,  arranged  by  your 
own  hands  on  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  let  no  sharply- 
spiced  sauces  come  near  him.  They  would  but  mar  his 
native  richness — ^the  flavor  he  brought  with  him  from  the 
lake  and  wild-wood.  Salt  him  lightly,  should  he  need  it, 
eat  and  be  happy. 

If  the  above  savor  of  bathos  rather  than  **  common 
sense,"  my  excuse  is,  I  have  lately  eaten  baked  salmon- 
trout  with  cream-gravy. 

Boiled  Salmon-Trout.  ^ 

Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  trout ;  envelop  in  a  thin  cloth 
fitted  neatly  to  the  shape  of  the  fish,  lay  within  a  fish- 
kettle,  cover  with  salted  water  (cold),  and  boil  gently 
half  an  hour  or  longer,  according  to  the  size.     When 


FIBH.  53 

done,  unwrap  and  lay  in  a  hot  dish.  Poor  around  it 
cream-sauce  made  as  for  baked  salmon-trout — only,  of 
oourse,  with  the  omission  of  the  fish-gravy — and  .?erve. 

Fried  Trout. 

Brook  trout  are  generally  cooked  in  this  way,  and  form 
a  rarely  delightful  breakfast  or  supper  dish. 

Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  fish,  roll  lightly  in  flour,  and 
fry  in  butter  or  clarified  dripping,  or  butter  and  latd. 
Let  the  fat  be  hot,  fry  quickly  to  a  delicate  brown,  and 
take  up  the  instant  they  are  done.  Lay  for  an  instant 
upon  a  hot  folded  napkin,  to  absorb  whatever  grease  may 
ding  to  their  speckled  sides ;  then  range  side  by  side  in  a 
heated  dish,  garnish,  and  send  to  the  table.  Use  no  sea- 
soning except  salt,  and  that  only  when  the  fish  are  fried  in 
lard  or  unsalted  dripping. 

Pried  Pickerel.  >J< 

The  pickerel  ranks  next  to  trout  among  game-fish,  and 
should  be  fried  in  the  same  manner,  i^pecially — and  I 
urge  this  with  groaning  of  spirit,  in  remembrance  of  the 
many  times  in  which  I  have  had  my  sense  of  fitness,  not 
to  say  my  appetite,  outraged  by  seeing  the  gallant  fish 
brought  to  table  dried  to  a  crisp  throughout,  all  his  juices 
wasted  and  sweetness  utterly  departed — especially,  do  not 
fry  him  slowly  and  too  long ;  and  when  he  is  done,  take 
him  out  of  the  grease  I 

Cream  Pickerel.  >J< 

Reserve  your  largest  pickerel — those  over  three  pounds 
in  weight — ^for  baking,  and  proceed  with  them  as  with 
baked  salmon-trout — cream-gravy  and  all.  If  you  cauuot 
afibrd  cream,  substitute  rich  milk,  and  thicken  with  rice 
or  wheat  flour.  The  fish  are  better  cooked  in  this  way 
than  any  other. 


64  oomkon  sense. 

Fried  Perch,  and  other  Pan-fish. 

Clean,  waflh,  and  dry  the  fish.  Lay  them  in  a  laige 
flat  dish,  salt,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Have  ready  a  fry- 
ing-pan of  hot  dripping,  lard,  or  butter ;  put  in  as  many 
fish  as  the  pan  will  hold  without  crowding,  and  fry  to  a 
light  brown.     Send  up  hot  in  a  chafing-dish. 

The  many  varieties  of  pan-fish — porgies,  flounders,  river 
bass,  weak*fish,  white-fish,  etc.,  may  be  cooked  in  like  man- 
ner. In  serving,  lay  the  head  of  each  fish  to  the  tail  of 
the  one  next  him. 

Stewed  Cat-fish.  >I< 

Skin,  clean,  and  cut  ofi*  the  horribly  homely  heads. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  to  remove  any  muddy  taste  they  may 
have  contracted  from  the  flats  or  holes  in  which  they  have 
fed,  and  let  them  lie  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour  or  so. 
Then  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water, 
and  stew  very  gently  for  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  according  to  their  size.  Add  a  chopped  shallot  or 
button-oniou,  a  bunch  of  chopped  parsley,  a  little  pepper, 
a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
mixed  to  a  paste  with  cold  water ;  boil  up  once,  take 
out  the  fish  carefully,  and  lay  in  a  deep  dish.  Boil  up 
the  gravy  once  more,  and  strain  over  the  fish.  Send  to 
table  in  a  covered  dish. 

Fried  Cat-fish  >J< 

Skin,  clean,  and  remove  the  heads.  Sprinkle  with 
salt,  and  lay  aside  for  an  hour  or  more.  Have  ready  two 
or  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  and,  in  a  flat  dish,  a 
quantity  of  powdered  cracker.  Dip  the  fish  first  in  the 
egg,  then  in  the  cracker,  and  fry  quickly  in  hot  lard  or 
dripping.    Take  up  as  soon  as  done. 


FISH.  56 

Cat-fish  Chowder. 

Skin,  clean,  and  cut  off  the  heads.  Cut  the  fish  into 
pieces  two  inches  long,  and  put  into  a  pot  with  some  fat 
pork  cut  into  shreds — a  pound  to  a  dozen  medium-sized 
fish,  two  chopped  onions,  or  half  a  dozen  shallots,  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  and  pepper.  The  pork  will  salt  it  sufii- 
ciently.  Stew  slowly  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Then 
stir  in  a  cup  of  milk,  thickened  with  a  tablespoonAil  of 
flour ;  take  up  a  cupful  of  the  hot  liquor,  and  stir,  a  little 
at  a  time,  into  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Return  this  to  the 
pot,  throw  in  half  a  dozen  Boston  or  butter  crackers, 
split  in  half;  let  all  boil  up  once,  and  turn  into  a  tureen. 
Pass  sliced  lemon  or  cucumber  pickles,  also  sliced,  with  it. 
Take  out  the  backbones  of  the  fish  before  serving. 

Stewed  Eels.  >J< 

Inquire,  before  buying,  where  they  were  caught,  and 
give  so  decided  a  preference  to  country  eels  as  to  refuse 
those  fattened  upon  the  offal  of  city  wharves.  Nor  are 
the  largest  eels  the  best  for  eating.  One  weighing  a  pound 
is  better  for  your  purpose  than  a  bulky  fellow  that  weighs 
three. 

Skin  and  clean,  carefully  extracting  all  the  fat  from  the 
inside.  Cut  into  lengths  of  an  inch  and  a  half;  put  into 
a  saucepan,  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them ;  throw 
in  a  little  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  and  stew  slowly, 
closely  covered,  for  at  least  an  hour.  Add,  at  the  la^t,  a 
great  spoonful  of  butter,  and  a  little  flour  wet  with  cold 
water,  also  pepper.  Serve  in  a  deep  dish.  The  appear- 
ance and  odor  of  this  stew  are  so  pleasing  as  often  to  over- 
come the  prejudices  of  those  who  '- Wouldn't  touch  an  eel 
jEbr  the  world  I  They  look  like  snakes  I"  And  those  who 
have  tatted  them  rarely  enter  a  second  demurrer. 


56  ooxxon  sehsb. 

Fbied  Eels. 
Prepare  as  for  stewing ;  roll  in  flour  ^  and  fry,  in  hot 
ourd  or  dripping,  to  a  light  brown. 

Chowder  (iVb.  1.)  ^ 

Take  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  cut  into  strips,  and  soak  in 
hot  water  five  minutes.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pot  with  a 
layer  of  this.  Cut  four  pounds  of  cod  or  sea-badB  into 
pieces  two  inches  square,  and  lay  enough  of  the^  on  the 
pork  to  cover  it  Follow  with  a  layer  of  chopped  onions, 
a  little  parsley,  summer  savory,  and  pepper,  eithtsr  black  or 
cayenne.  Then  a  layer  of  split  Boston,  or  butter,  or  whole 
cream  crackers,  which  have  been  soaked  in  warm  water 
until  moist  through,  but  not  ready  to  break.  Above  this 
lay  a  stratum  of  pork,  and  repeat  the  order  given  above 
^-onions,  seasoning,  (not  too  much,)  crackerc,  and  pork, 
until  your  materials  nre  exhausted.  Let  the  topmost 
layer  be  buttered  crackers,  well  soaked.  Put  in  enough 
cold  water  to  cover  all  barely.  Cover  the  pot,  stew 
gently  for  an  hour,  watching  that  the  water  does  not  sink 
too  low*  Should  it  leave  the  upper  layer  exposed,  replen- 
ish constantly  from  the  tea-kettle.  When  the  chowder  is 
thoroughly  done,  take  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer  and 
put  into  a  tureen.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour  and  about  the  same  quantity  of  butter.  Boil 
up  and  pour  over  the  chowder.  Send  sliced  lemon,  pick- 
les, and  stewed  tomatoes  to  the  table  with  it,  that  the 
guests  may  add,  if  they  like. 

Chowder  (No,  2.) 
Slice  six  large  onions,  and  fry  them  in  the  gravy  of 
fried  salt  pork.  Cut  five  pounds  of  bass  or  cod  into 
strips  three  inches  long  and  one  thick,  and  line  the  bottom 
of  a  pot  with  them.  Scatter  a  few  slice?  of  onion  upon 
them,  a  little  salt,  half  a  dozen  whole  black  peppe^,  a 


BSELlrFJSB.  67 

dove  or  two,  a  pinch  of  thyme  and  one  of  parsley, 
a  tablespoonful  tomato  or  mushroom  catsup,  and  six 
oysters ;  then  comes  a  hiyer  of  oyster  crackers,  well-soaked 
in  milk  and  buttered  thickly.  Another  layer  of  fish, 
onions,  seasoning,  and  crackers,  and  so  on  uutil  all  are  used 
up.  Cover  with  water,  boil  slowly  for  an  hour  and  pour 
out.  Serve  with  capers  and  sliced  lemon.  A  cup  of  oyster 
liquor  added  to  the  chowder  while  boiling  improves  it 


SHELIr-FISH. 

To  Boil  a  Lobster. 

Choose  a  lively  one — not  too  large,  lest  he  should  be 
tough.     Put  a  handful  of  salt  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water, 
and  having  tied  the  claws  together,  if  your  fish  merchant 
has  not  already  skewered  them,  plunge  him  into  the  pre- 
pared bath.     He  will  be  restive   under  this  vigorous 
hydropathic  treatment ;  but  allay  your  tortured  sympa- 
thies by  the  reflection  that  he  is  a  cold-blooded  animal, 
destitute  of  imagination,  and  that  pain,  according  to  some 
philosophers,  exists  only  in  the  imagination.   However  this 
may  be,  his  suffering  will  be  short-lived.    Boil  from  half 
an  hour  to  an  hour,  as  his  size  demands.    When  done, 
draw  out  the  scarlet  innocent,  and  lay  him,  face  down- 
ward, in  a .  sieve  to  dry.     When  cold,  split  open  the  body 
and  tail,  and  crack  the  claws  to  extract  the  meat,  throwing 
away  the  "lady  fingers"  and  the  head.    Lobsters  are 
seldom  served  without  dressing,  upon  private  tables,  as 
few  persons  care  to  take  the  trouble  of  preparing  their 
own  salad  after  taking  their  seats  at  the  board. 

Devilled  Lobster. 

Extract  the  meat  from  a  boiled  lobster,  as  for  salad,  and 
minoe  it  findy;  reserve  the  coral.    Season  highly  with 

8* 


U  OOmCOV  BBVBE. 

mustard,  cayenne,  salt,  and  some  pungent  sauce*  Tots 
and  stir  until  it  is  well  mixed,  and  put  into  a  porcelain 
saucepan  (covered),  with  just  enough  hot  water  to  keep  it 
from  burning  Bub  the  coral  smooth,  moistening  with 
vinegar  until  it  is  thin  enough  to  pour  easily,  then  stir 
into  the  contents  of  the  saucepan.  It  is  necessary  to  pre- 
pare the  dressing,  let  me  say,  before  the  lobster-meat  is  set 
on  the  fire  It  ought  to  boil  up  but  once  before  the  coral 
and  vinegar  are  put  in.  Next  stir  in  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  when  it  boils  again,  take  the  pan 
from  the  fire.  Too  much  cooking  toughens  the  meat* 
This  is  a  famous  supper  dkh  for  sleighing  parties. 

Lobster  Croquettes.  >!< 

To  the  meat  of  a  well-boiled  lobster,  chopped  fine,  add 
pepper,  Rait,  and  powdered  mace.  Mix  with  this  one- 
quarter  as  much  bread-crumbs,  well  rubbed,  as  you  have 
meat;  make  into  ovates,  or  pointed  balls,  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Boll  these  in  beaten  egg,  then 
in  pulverized  cracker,  and  fry  in  butter  or  very  nice  sweet 
lard.  Serve  dry  and  hot,  and  garnish  with  crisped  pars- 
ley.   This  is  a  delicious  supper  dish  or  entrSe  at  dinner. 

Devilled  Cbab.  >{< 

This  18  prepared  according  to  the  receipt  for  devilled 
lobster — substituting  for  the  coral  in  the  vinegar  some 
pulverized  cracker,  moistened  first  with  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  rich  cream.  You  can  serve  up  in  the  back-shell 
of  the  crab  if  vou  like.  Send  in  with  cream  crackers, 
and  stick  a  sprig  of  parsley  in  the  top  of  each  heap, 
ranging  the  shells  upon  a  large  flat  dish. 

Crab  Salad. 

Mince  the  meat  and  dress  as  in  lobster  salad.  Send  in 
the  back-shell  of  the  crab. 


t 


sbxll-7ibh.  69 

Soft  Crabs.  ^ 

Manj  will  not  eat  hard-shell  crabs,  considering  them 
indigestible,  and  not  sufficiently  palatable  to  compensate 
for  the  risk  they  run  in  eating  them. '  And  it  must  be 
owned  that  they  are,  at  their  best,  but  an  indifferent  sub- 
stitute for  the  more  aristocratic  lobster.  But  in  the  morn^ 
ing  of  life,  for  him  so  often  renewed,  his  crabehip  is  a 
different  creature,  and  greatly  affected  by  epicures. 

Do  not  keep  the  crabs  over  night,  as  the  shells  harden 
in  twenty-four  hours.  Pull  off  the  spongy  substance  from 
the  sides  and  the  sand  bags.  These  are  the  only  portions 
that  are  uneatable.  Wash  well,  and  wipe  dry.  Have 
ready  a  pan  of  seething  hot  lard  or  butter,  and  fry  them 
to  a  fine  brown.  Put  a  little  salt  into  the  lard.  The  but- 
ter will  need  none.     Send  up  hot,  garnished  with  parsley. 

Water-Turtles,  or  Terrapins. 

Land-terrapins,  it  is  hardly  necessary  to  say,  are  unea^ 
able,  but  the  large  turtle  that  frequents  our  mill-ponds  and 
rivers  can  be  converted  into  a  relishable  article  of  food. 

Plunge  the  turtle  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  let 
him  lie  there  ^ve  minutes.  You  can  then  skin  the  under- 
part  easily,  and  pull  off  the  horny  parts  of  the  feet.  Lay 
him  for  ten  minutes  in  cold  salt  and  water ;  then  put  into 
more  hot  water — salted,  but  not  too  much.  Boil  until 
tender.  The  time  will  depend  upon  the  size  and  age. 
Take  him  out,  drain,  and  wipe  dry;  loosen  the  shell  care- 
fully, not  to  break  the  flesh ;  cut  open  also  with  care,  lest 
you  touch  the  gall-bag  with  the  knife.  Remove  this  with 
the  entrails  and  sand-bag.  Cut  up  all  the  rest  of  the 
animal  into  small  bits,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  chopped 
onion,  sweet  herbs,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  some  spiced  sauce, 
or  a  tablespoonful  of  catsup — walnut  or  mushroom.  Save 
the  juice  that  runs  from  the  meat,  and  put  all  together  into 


60  COMMON  SBRSa. 

a.  saucepan  .with  a  clodely  fitting  top.    Stew  gently  fifteen 

minutes,  stirring  occasionally,  and  add  a  great  spoonful  of 

butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  wet  in  cold  water, 

a  glass  of  brown  Sherry,  and  lastly,  the  beaten  yolk  of  an 

eggy  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  hot  liquor,  that  it  may  not 

curdle.      Boil  up  once,  and  turn  into  a  covered   dish. 

Send  around  green  pickles  and  delicate  slices  of  dry  toast 

with  it 

Stewed  Oysters. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  two  quarts  of  firm,  plump  oysters; 

mix  with  it  a  small  teacupful  of  hot  water,  add  a  little  salt 

and  pepper,  and  set  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan.      Let  it 

boil  up  once,  put  in  the  oysters,  let  them  boil  for  five 

minutes  or  less — not  more.     When  they  "  ruffle,"  add  two 

tablespoonfuls  of  butter.   The  instant  it  is  melted  and  well 

stirred  in,  put  in  a  large  cupful  of  boiling  milk  and  take 

the  saucepan  from  the  fire.      Serve  with  oyster  or  cream 

crackers,  as  soon  as  possible.      Oysters  become  tough  and 

tasteless  when  cooked  too  much,  or  lefl  to  stand  too  long 

after  they  are  withdrawn  from  the  fire. 

Fried  Oysters.  >J« 
Use  for  frying  the  largest  and  best  oysters  you  can  find. 
Take  them  carefully  from  the  liquor ;  lay  them  in  rows 
upon  a  clean  cloth,  and  press  another  lightly  upon  them 
to  absorb  the  moisture.  Have  ready  some  crackers  crushed 
fine.  In  the  frying-pan  heat  enough  nice  butter  to  cover 
the  oysters  entirely.  Dip  each  oyster  into  the  cracker, 
rolling  it  over  that  it  may  become  completely  incrusted. 
Drop  them  carefully  into  the  frying-pan,  and  fry  quickly 
to  a  light  brown.  If  the  butter  is  hot  enough  they  will 
soon  be  ready  to  take  out  Test  it  by  putting  in  one 
oyster  before  you  risk  the  rest  Do  not  let  them  lie  in 
the  pan  an  instant  after  they  are  done.  Serve  dry,  and 
let  the  dish  be  warm.     A  chafing-dish  is  best 


SHELLrFlBK*  61 

Otbteb  Pbittehs.  * 

Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  to  a  cupful  of 
this  add  the  same  quantity  of  milk,  three  eggs,  a  little  salt, 
and  flour  enough  for  a  thin  batter.  Chop  the  oysters  and 
etir  into  the  batter.  Have  ready  in  the  frying-pan  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  lard,  or  half  lard,  half  butter ;  heat  very  hot, 
and  drop  the  oyster- batter  in  by  the  tablespoonful.  Try 
a  spoonful  first,  to  satisfy  yourself  that  the  lard  is  hot 
enough,  and  that  the  fritter  is  of  the  right  size  and  consis- 
tency. Take  rapidly  from  the  pan  as  soon  as  they  are 
done  to  a  pleasing  yellow  brown,  and  send  to  table  very 
hot 

Some  fry  the  oyster  whole,  enveloped  in  batter,  one  in 
each  fritter.  In  this  case,  the  batter  should  be  thicker 
than  if  the  chopped  oysters  were  to  be  added. 

SCAI.LOPED  Oysters.  >J« 
Crush  and  roll  several  handfuls  of  Boston  or  other  fri- 
able crackers.  Put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered 
pudding-dish.  Wet  this  with  a  mixture  of  the  oyster  liquor 
and  milk,  slightly  warmed.  Next,  have  a  layer  of  oysters. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  small  bits  of  butter 
upon  them.  Then  another  layer  of  moistened  crumbs,  and 
so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Let  the  top  layer  be  of  crumbs, 
thicker  than  the  rest,  and  beat  an  egg  into  the  milk  you 
pour  over  them.  Stick  bits  of  butter  thickly  over  it,  cover 
the  dish,  set  it  in  the  oven,  bake  half  an  hour ;  if  the  dish 
be  large,  remove  the  cover,  and  brown  by  setting  it  upon 
the  upper  grating  of  oven,  or  by  holding  a  hot  shovel  over 

it. 

Broiled  Oysters.  ^ 

Choose  large,  fat  oysters ;  wipe  them  very  dry ;  sprinkle 
salt  ai  i  cayenne  pepper  upon  them,  and  broil  upon  one 
of  th-    Imall  gridirons  sold  for  that  purpose.    You  can 


62  COMMON  8BN8E. 

dredge  the  oyster  with  cracker-dust  or  flour  if  you  wish  to 
have  it  brown,  and  some  fancy  the  juices  are  better  kept  in 
in  this  way.  Others  dislike  the  crust  thus  formed.  Butter 
the  gridiron  well,  and  let  your  fire  be  hot  and  clear.  If 
the  oyster  drip,  withdraw  the  gridiron  for  an  instant  until 
the  smoke  clears  away.  Broil  quickly  and  dish  hot,  put- 
ting a  tiny  piece  of  butter,  not  larger  than  a  pea,  upon 
each  oyster. 

Cream  Oysters  on  the  Half-shell. 
Pour  into  your  inner  saucepan  a  cup  of  hot  water,  an- 
other of  milk,  and  one  of  cream,  with  a  Utile  soda.  Set 
into  a  kettle  of  hot  water  until  it  boils,  when  stir  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  little  salt,  with  white  pep- 
per. Take  from  the  fire  and  add  two  heaping  tablespoon- 
fuls of  arrow-root,  rice-flour,  or  corn-starch,  wet  with  cold 
milk.  By  this  time  your  shells  should  be  washed  and 
buttered,  and  a  fine  oyster  laid  within  each.  Of  course,  it 
is  selon  lea  re^jles  to  use  oyster-shells  for  this  purpose ;  but 
you  will  find  clam-shells  more  roomy  and  manageable, 
because  more  regular  in  shape.  Range  these  closely  in  a 
large  baking-pan,  propping  them  with  clean  pebbles  or 
fragments  of  shell,  if  they  do  not  seem  inclined  to  retain 
their  contents.  Stir  the  cream  very  hard  and  fill  up  each 
shell  with  a  spoon,  taking  care  not  to  spill  any  in  the  pan. 
Bake  five  or  six  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  after  the  shells 
become  warm.  Serve  on  the  shell.  Some  substitute 
oyster- liquor  for  the  water  in  the  mixture,  and  use  all  milk 

instead  of  cream. 

Oyster  Omelet.  >J« 

12  oysters,  if  large;  double  the  number  of  small  ones. 

6  eggs. 

1  cup  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Chopped  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper. 


8HSLL-FI8H.  6S 

Chop  the  oysters  very  fine.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  the  eggs  separately  as  for  nice  cake — the  white  until 
it  stands  in  a  heap.  Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
in  a  frying-pan,  and  heat  while  you  are  mixing  the  omelet. 
Stir  the  milk  into  a  deep  dish  with  the  yolk,  and  season. 
Next  put  in  the  chopped  oysters,  beating  vigorously  as 
you  add  them  gradually.  When  they  are  thoroughly  in- 
corporated, pour  in  the  spoonful  of  melted  butter ;  finally, 
whip  in  the  whites  lightly  and  with  as  few  strokes  as  pos- 
sible.  If  the  butter  is  hot,  and  it  ought  to  be,  that  the 
omelet  may  not  stand  uncooked,  put  the  mixture  into  the 
pan.  Do  not  stir  it,  but  when  it  begins  to  etiffen— "to 
set,''  in  culinary  phrase,  slip  a  broad-bladed,  round-point- 
ed dinner-knife  around  the  sides,  and  cautiously  under  the 
omelet,  that  the  butter  may  reach  every  part.  As  soon 
as  the  centre  is  fairly  **  set/'  turn  out  into  a  hot  dish.  Lay 
the  latter  bottom  upward  over  the  frying-pan,  which  must 
be  turned  upside-down  dexterously.  This  brings  the 
browned  side  of  the  omelet  uppermost.  This  omelet  is 
delicious  and  easily  made. 

Oysteb  Pie.    >i< 

Make  a  rich  pufi**-paste ;  roll  out  twice  as  thick  as  for  a 
iruit-pie  for  the  top  crust — ^about  the  ordinary  thickness 
for  the  lower.  Line  a  pudding- dish  with  the  thinner,  and 
fill  with  crusts  of  dry  bread  or  light  crackers.  Some  use 
a  folded  towel  to  fill  the  interior  of  the  pie,  but  the  above 
expedient  is  preferable.  Butter  the  edges  of  the  dish, 
thiit  yuu  may  be  able  to  lifb  the  upper  crust  without 
breaking.  Cover  the  mock-pie  with  the  thick  crust,  orna- 
mented heavily  at  the  edge,  that  it  may  lie  the  more  qui- 
etly, and  bake.  Cook  the  oysters  as  for  a  stew,  only 
beating  into  them  at  the  last  two  eggs,  and  thickening  with 
a  spoonful  of  fine  cracker-crumbs  or  rice-flour.  They  should 


M 


COMMON  SEireS. 


8tew  but  five  xninutee,  and  time  them  so  that  the  paste 
will  be  baked  just  in  season  to  receive  them.  Lift  the  top 
crust,  pour  in  the  smoking  hot  oysters,  and  send  up  hot. 

I  know  that  many  consider  it  unnecessary  to  prepare 
the  oysters  and  crust  separately;  but  my  experience 
and  observation  go  to  prove  that,  if  this  precaution  be 
omitted,  the  oysters  are  apt  to  be  wofully  overdone.  The 
reader  can  try  both  methods  and  take  her  choice. 

Pickled  Ototebs.^. 

100  large  oysters. 

1  pt.  white  wine  vinegar. 

1  doz.  blades  of  mace. 

2  doz.  whole  cloves. 

2  doz.  whole  black  peppers. 

1  large  red  pepper  broken  into  bits. 

Put  oysters,  liquor  and  all,  into  a  porcelain  or  bell- 
metal  kettle.  Salt  to  taste.  Heat  slowly  until  the  oysters 
are  very  hot,  but  not  to  boiling.  Take  them  out  with  a 
perforated  skimmer,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  To  the  liquor 
which  remains  in  the  kettle  add  the  vinegar  and  spices. 
Boil  up  fairly,  and  when  the  oysters  are  almost  cold,  pour 
over  them  scalding  hot.  Cover  the  jar  in  which  they  are, 
and  put  away  in  a  cool  place.  Next  day  put  the  pickled 
oysters  into  glass  cans  with  tight  tops.  Keep  in  the  dark, 
and  where  they  are  not  liable  to  become  heated. 

I  have  kept  oysters  thus  prepared  for  three  weeks  in  the 
winter-  If  you  open  a  can,  use  the  contents  up  as  soon 
as  practicable.  The  air,  like  the  light,  will  turn  them 
dark. 

It  is  little  trouble  for  every  housekeeper  to  put  up  the 
pickled  oysters  needed  in  her  family ;  and  besides  the 
satisfaction  she  will  feel  in  the  consciousness  that  the  ma- 
teriak  used  are  harmless,  and  the  oysters  sound,  she  will 


SHELLrFIBH.  66 

eaye  at  least  one-third  of  the  price  of  those  she  would  buy 
ready  pickled.  The  colorless  vinegar  used  by  *'  profes- 
sionals "  for  such  purposes  is  usually  sulphuric  or  pyrolig- 
neous  acid.  If  you  doubt  this,  pour  a  little  of  the  liquor 
from  the  pickled  oysters  put  up  by  your  obliging  oyster- 
dealer  Into  a  bell-metal  kettle.  I  tried  it  once,  and  the 
result  was  a  liquid  that  ipatched  the  clear  green   of  Nia« 

gara  in  hue. 

Boast  Oysters. 

There  is  no  pleasanter  frolic  for  an  Autumn  evening,  in 
the  regions  where  oysters  are  plentiful,  than  an  impromptu 
"roast "in  the  kitchen.  There  the  oysters  are  hastily 
thrown  into  the  fire  by  the  peck.  You  may  consider  that 
your  fastidious  taste  is  marvellously  respected  if  they  are 
washed  first  A  bushel  basket  is  set  to  receive  the  empty 
shells,  and  the  click  of  the  oyster-knives  forms  a  constant 
accompaniment  to  the  music  of  laughing  voices.  Nor 
are  roast  oysters  amiss  upon  your  own  quiet  supper-table, 
when  the  "  good  man  "  comes  in  on  a  wet  night,  tired  and 
hungry,  and  wants  "  something  heartening."  Wash  and 
wipe  the  shell-oysters,  and  lay  them  in  the  oven,  if  it  is 
quick;  upon  the  top  of  the  stove,  if  it  is  not.  When  they 
open,  they  are  done.  Pile  in  a  large  dish  and  send  to 
table.  Remove  the  upper  shell  by  a  dexterous  wrench  of 
the  knife,  season  the  oyster  on  the  lower,  with  pepper- 
sauce  and  butter,  or  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar  in  lieu  of 
the  sauce,  and  you  have  the  very  aroma  of  this  pearl  of 
bivalves,  pure  and  undefiled. 

Or,  you  may  open  while  raw,  leaving  the  oysters  upon 

the  lower  shells ;  lay  in  a  large  baking-pan,  and  roast  in 

their  own  liquor,  adding  pepper,  salt,  and  butter  before 

serving. 

Raw  Oysters. 

It  is  fisishionable  to  serve  these  as  one  of  the  prelimi- 


66  COMMON  8£K8£. 

imries  to  a  dinner-party ;  sometimes  in  small  plates,  somei 
times  on  the  half-shell.  They  are  seasoned  by  each  guesi 
according  to  his  own  taste. 

Steamed  Oysters. 

If  you  have  no  steamer,  improvise  one  by  the  help  of  a 
cullender  and  a  pot-lid  fitting  closely  into  it,  at  a  little 
distance  from  the  top.  Wash  some  shell  oysters  and  lay 
them  in  such  a  position  in  the  bottom  of  the  cullender  that 
the  liquor  will  not  escape  from  them  when  the  shell  opens, 
that  is,  with  the  upper  shell  down.  Cover  with  a  cloth 
thrown  over  the  top  of  the  cullender,  and  press  the  lid  hard 
down  upon  this  to  exclude  the  air.  Set  over  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water  so  deep  that  the  cullender,  which  should  fit  into 
the  mouth,  does  not  touch  the  water.  Boil  hard  for  twenty 
minutes,  then  make  a  hasty  examination  of  the  oysters.  If 
they  are  open,  you  are  safe  in  removing  the  cover.  Serve 
on  the  half-shell,  or  upon  a  hot  chafing  dish.  Sprinkle  a 
little  salt  over  them  and  a  few  bits  of  butter  ;  but  be  quick 
in  whatever  you  do,  for  the  glory  of  the  steamed  oyster  is 

to  be  eaten  hot 

Oyster  Pates.  >I< 

1  qt  oysters. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  salt 

Set  the  oysters,  with  enough  liquor  to  cover  them,  ina 
saucepan  upon  the  range  or  stove ;  let  them  come  to  a  boil ; 
skim  well,  and  stir  in  the  butter  and  seasoning.  Two  or 
three  spoonsful  of  cream  will  improve  them.  Have  ready 
small  tins  lined  with  puff  paste.  Put  three  or  four  oysters 
in  each,  according  to  the  size  of  the  puts ;  cover  with  paste 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes.  For  open  paies^ 
cut  the  paste  into  round  cakes :  those  intended  for  the 
bottom  crust  less  than  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick ;  for  Um 


BHELLrFXSH.  67 

apper,  a  little  thicker.  With  a  smaller  cutter,  remove  a 
round  of  paste  from  the  middle  of  the  latter,  leaving  a  neat 
ring.  Lay  this  carefully  upon  the  bottom  crust ;  place  a 
second  ring  upon  this,  that  the  cavity  may  be  deep  enough 
to  hold  the  oysters ;  lay  the  pieces  you  have  extracted  also 
in  the  pan  with  the  rest,  and  bake  to  a  fine  brown  in  a 
quick  oven  When  done,  wash  over  with  beaten  egg,  around 
top  and  all,  and  set  in  the  oven  three  minutes  to  glaze 
Fill  the  cavity  with  a  mixture  prepared  as  below,  fit  on 
the  top  lightly,  and  serve. 

Mixture, 
Boil  half  the  liquor  from  a  quart  of  oysters.     Put  in  all 
the  oysters,  leaving  out  the  uncooked  liquor ;  heat  to  boil- 
ing,  and  stir  in— 

i  cup  of  hot  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch,  wet  with  a  little  milk. 
A  little  salt. 

Boil  four  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it  thickens, 

and  fill   the  cavity  in  the  paste  shells.     These  pciies  are 

very  nice. 

Scallops. 

The  heart  is  the  only  part  used.  If  you  buy  them  in 
the  shell,  boil  and  take  out  the  hearts.  Those  sold  in 
our  markets  are  generally  ready  for  frying  or  stewing. 

Dip  them  in  beaten  egg^  then  in  cracker-crumbs  and 

fry  in  hot  lard. 

Or, 

You  may  stew  like  oysters.    The  fried  scallops  are  gene- 
rally preferred. 

Scalloped  Clams. 

Chop  the  clams  fine,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Cayenne  pepper  is  thought  to  give  a  finer  flavor  than 


6S  COMMON  SENSE. 

black  or  white;  but  to  some  palates  it  is  insufferable. 
Mix  in  another  didh  some  powdered  cracker,  moistened 
first  with  warm  milk,  then  with  the  clam  liquor,  a  beaten 
egg  or  two,  and  some  melted  butter.  Stir  in  with  this 
the  chopped  clams.  Wash  as  many  clam-shells  as  the 
mixture  will  fill ;  wipe  and  butter  them ;  fill,  heaping  up 
and  smoothing  over  with  a  silver  knife  or  tea-spoon. 
Range  in  rows  in  your  baking-pan,  and  cook  until  nicely 
browned.  Or,  if  you  do  not  care  to  be  troubled  with  the 
shells,  bake  in  patty-pans,  sending  to  table  hot  in  the 
tins,  as  you  would  in  the  scallop^hells. 

Clam  Fritters.    ^ 

12  clams,  minced  fine. 
1  pint  of  milk. 
3  eggs. 

Add  the  liquor  from  the  clams  to  the  milk ;  beat  up  the 
eggs  and  put  to  this,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  flour 
enough  for  thin  batter ;  lastly,  the  chopped  clams.  Fry 
in  hot  lard,  trying  a  little  first  to  see  that  fat  and  batter 
are  right.  A  tablespoonfiil  will  make  a  fritter  of  mode- 
rate size.  Or,  you  can  dip  the  whole  clams  in  batter  and 
cook  in  like  manner.  Fry  quickly!  or  they  lure  apt  to  be 
too  greasy. 

Clam  Chowder«>{< 

Fry  five  or  six  slices  of  fat  pork  crisp,  and  chop  to 
pieces.  Sprinkle  some  of  these  in  the  bottom  of  a  pot; 
lay  upon  them  a  stratum  of  clams ;  sprinkle  with  cayenne 
or  black  pepper  and  salt,  and  scatter  bits  of  butter  pro- 
fusely over  all ;  next,  have  a  layer  of  chopped  onions, 
then  one  of  small  crackers,  split  and  moistened  with  j 

warm  milk.  On  these  pour  a  little  of  the  fat  left  in  the 
pan  after  th^  pork  is  fried,  and  then  comes  a  new  round 


POULTRY.  69 

of  pork,  clams,  onioD,  etc.  Proceed  in  this  order  until 
the  pot  is  nearly  full,  when  cover  with  water,  and  stew 
slowly — ^the  pot  closely  covered — ^for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  .Drain  off  all  the  liquor  that  will  flow  freely,  and, 
when  you  have  turned  the  chowder  into  the  tureen,  re- 
turn the  gravy  to  the  pot  Thicken  with  flour,  or,  better 
still,  pounded  crackers ;  add  a  glass  of  wine,  some  catsup, 
and  spiced  sauce ;  boil  up,  and  pour  over  the  contents  of 
the  tureen.  Send  around  walnut  or  butternut  pickles 
with  it. 


•     POULTRY. 

Poultry  should  never  be  eaten  in  leas  than  six  or  eight 
hours  after  it  is  killed ;  but  it  should  be  picked  and  drawn 
as  soon  as  possible.  There  is  no  direr  disgrace  to  our 
Northern  markets  than  the  practice  of  sending  whole 
dead  fowls  to  market.  I  have  bought  such  from  respon- 
sible poultry  dealers,  and  found  them  uneatable,  from 
having  remained  undrawn  until  the  flavor  of  the  craw 
and  intestines  had  impregnated  the  whole  body.  Those 
who  are  conversant  with  the  habit  of  careful  country 
housewives,  of  keeping  up  a  fowl  without  food  for  a  day 
and  night  before  killing  and  dressing  for  their  own  eating, 
cannot  but  regard  with  disgust  the  surcharged  crops  and 
puffy  sides  of  those  sold  by  weight  In  the  shambles.  If 
you  want  to  know  what  you  really  pay  for  poultry  bought 
in  these  circumstances,  weigh  the  offal  extracted  from  the 
fowl  by  your  cook,  and  deduct  from  the  market  weight 
*'  But  don't  you  know  it  actually  poisons  a  fowl  to  lie  so 
long  undressed?'*  once  exclaimed  a  Southern  lady  to  me. 
"  In  our  markets  they  are  offered  for  sale  ready  picked 
and  drawn,  with  the  giblets — also  cleaned — tucked  under 
their  wings/' 


70  COMMON  SENSE. 

I  know  nothing  about  the  poisonous  nature  of  the  en- 
trails and  crops.  I  do  assert  that  the  custom  is  unclean 
and  unjust.  And  this  I  do  without  the  remotest  hope  of 
arousing  ray  fellow-housekeepers  to  remonstrance  against 
established  usage.  Only  it  relieves  my  mind  somewhat  to 
grumble  at  what  I  cannot  help.  The  best  remedy  I  can 
propose  for  the  grievance  is  to  buy  live  fowls,  and,  before 
sending  them  home,  ask  your  butcher  to  decapitate  them ; 
the  probabilities  being  greatly  in  favor  of  the  supposition 
that  your  cook  is  too  "  tinder-hearted  "  to  attempt  the  job. 

One  word  as  to  the  manner  of  roasting  meats  and  fowls. 
In  this  day  of  ranges  and  cooking-stoves,  I  think  I  am 
speaking  within  bounds  when  I  assume  that  not  one  house- 
keeper in  fifty  uses  a  spit,  or  even  a  tin  kitchen,  for  such 
purposes.  It  is  in  vain  that  the  writers  of  receipt-books 
inform  us  with  refreshing  naivete  that  all  our  meats  are 
baked,  not  roasted,  and  expatiate  upon  the  superior  flavor 
of  those  prepared  upon  the  English  spits  and  in  old  fash- 
ioned kitchens,  where  enormous  wood-fires  blazed  from 
morning  until  night.  I  shall  not  soon  forget  my  perplex- 
ity when,  an  inexperienced  housekeeper  and  a  firm  believer 
in  all  "  that  was  writ"  by  older  and  wiser  people,  I  stood 
before  my  neat  Mott*s  "  Defiance,"  a  fine  sirloin  of  beef 
ready  to  be  cooked  on  the  table  behind  me,  and  read  from 
my  Instruction-book  that  my  '*  fire  should  extend  at  least 
eight  inches  beyond  the  roaster  on  either  side  I "  I  am 
not  denying  the  virtues  of  spits  and  tin  kitchens — only 
regretting  that  they  are  not  within  the  reach  of  every  one. 
In  view  of  this  fact,  let  me  remark,  for  the  benefit  of  the 
unfortunate  many,  that,  in  the  opinion  of  excellent  judges, 
the  practice  of  roasting  meat  in  close  ovens  has  advantages. 
Of  these  I  need  mention  but  two,  to  wit,  the  preservation 
of  the  flavor  of  the  article  roasted,  and  the  prevention  of 
its  escape  to  the  upper  regions  of  the  dwelling. 


Roast  Turkey. 

After  drawing  the  turkey,  rinse  out  with  several  waters, 
and  in  next  to  the  last  mix  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  The 
inside  of  a  fowl,  especially  if  purchased  in  the  market,  19 
sometimes  very  sour,  and  imparts  an  unpleasant  taste  to 
the  stuffing,  if  not  to  the  inner  part  of  the  legs  and  side- 
bones.  The  soda  will  act  as  a  corrective,  and  is  moreover 
very  cleansing.  Fill  the  body  with  this  water,  shake  well, 
empty  it  out,  and  rinse  with  fair  water.  Then  prepare  a 
dressing  of  bread-crumhs,  mixed  with  butter,  pepper,  salt, 
tliyme  or  sweet  marjoram.  You  may,  if  you  like,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  A  little  chopped  sausage  is 
esteemed  an  improvement  when  well  incorporated  with  the 
other  ingredients.  Or,  mince  a  dozen  oysters  and  stir  into 
the  dressing.  The  effect  upon  the  turkey-m^at,  particu- 
larly that  of  the  breast,  is  very  pleasant. 

Stuff  the  craw  with  this,  and  tie  a  string;  tightly  about 
the  neck,  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  stuffing.  Then  fill 
the  body  of  the  turkey,  and  sew  it  up  with  strong  thread. 
This  and  the  neck-string  are  to  be  removed  when  the  fowl 
is  dished.  In  roasting,  if  your  fire  is  brisk,  allow  about 
ten  minutes  to  a  pound ;  but  it  will  depend  very  much 
upon  the  turkey'6  age  whether  this  rule  holds  good.  Dredge 
it  with  flour  before  roasting,  and  baste  often ;  at  first  with 
butter  and  water,  afterward  with  the  gravy  in  the  dripping- 
pan.  If  you  lay  the  turkey  in  the  pan,  put  in  with  it  a 
teacup  of  hot  water.  Many  roast  always  upon  a  grating 
placed  on  the  top  of  the  pan.  In  that  case  the  boiling 
water  steams  the  underpart  of  the  fowl,  and  prevents  the 
skin  from  drying  too  fiist,  or  cracking.  Roast  to  a  fine 
brown,  and  if  it  threaten  to  darken  too  rapidly,  lay  a  sheet 
of  white  paper  over  it  until  the  lower  part  is  also  done. 

Stew  the  chopped  giblets  in  just  enough  water  to  cover 


72  OOMMOir  8BNBS. 

them,  and  when  the  turkey  id  lifted  from  the  pan,  add 
these,  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  to  the 
drippings ;  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of  browned  flour,  wet 
with  cold  water  to  prevent  lumping,  boil  up  once,  and  pour 
into  the  gravy-boat  If  the  turkey  is  fat,  skim  the  drip- 
pings well  before  putting  in  the  giblets. 

Serve  with  cranberry  sauce.  Some  lay  fried  oysters  in 
the  dish  around  the  turkey. 

Boiled  Turkey. 

Chop  about  two  dozen  oysters,  and  mix  with  them  a 
dressing  compounded  as  for  roast  turkey,  only  with  more 
butter.  Stuff  the  turkey  as  for  roasting,  craw  and  body, 
and  baste  about  it  a  thin  cloth,  fitted  closely  to  every  part. 
The  inside  of  the  cloth  should  be  dredged  with  flour  to 
prevent  the  fowl  from  sticking  to  it  Allow  fifteen  minutes 
to  a  pound,  and  boil  slowly. 

Serve  with  oyster-sauce,  made  by  adding  to  a  cupful  of 
the  liquor  in  which  the  turkey  was  boiled,  eight  oysters 
chopped  fine.  Season  with  minced  parsley,  stir  in  a  spoon- 
ful of  rice  or  wheat  flour,  wet  with  cold  milk,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Add  a  cupful  of  hot  milk.  Boil  up 
once  and  pour  into  an  oyster^tureen.  Send  around  celery 
with  it 

Turkey  Scallop.  ^ 

Cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  a  cold  boiled  or  roasted 
turkey  left  from  yesterday's  dinner.  Remove  the  bits  of 
skin  and  gristle,  and  chop  up  the  rest  very  fine.  Put  in 
the  bottom  of  a  buttered  dish  a  layer  of  cracker  or  bread- 
crumbs ;  moisten  slightly  with  milk,  that  they  may  not 
absorb  all  the  gravy  to  be  poured  in  afterward  ;  then  spread 
a  layer  of  the  minced  turkey,  with  bits  of  the  stuffing,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  small  pieces  of  butter.  Another  layer  of 
cracker,  wet  with  milk,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  nearly 


.      POULTRY.  73 

folL  Before  putting  on  the  topmoet  lajer,  pour  in  the 
gravy  left  from  the  turkey,  diluted — should  there  not  be 
enough — with  hot  water,  and  seasoned  with  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  or  catsup,  and  butter.  Have  ready  a  crust  of 
cracker- crumbs  soaked  in  warm  milk,  seasoned  with  salt, 
and  beaten  up  light  with  two  eggs.  It  should  be  j  ust  thick 
enough  to  spread  smoothly  over  the  top  of  the  scallop. 
Stick  bits  of  butter  plentifully  upon  it,  and  bake.  Turn  a 
deep  plate  over  the  dish  until  the  contents  begin  to  bub- 
ble at  the  sides,  showing  that  the  whole  is  thoroughly 
cooked ;  then  remove  the  cover,  and  brown.  A  large 
pudding-dish  full  of  the  mixture  will  be  cooked  in  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

This,  like  many  other  economical  dishes,  will  prove  so 
savory  as  to  claim  a  frequent  appearance  upon  any  table. 

Cold  chicken  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way 

Or, 

The  minced  turkey,  dressing,  and  cracker-crumbs  may 
be  wet  with  gravy,  two  eggs  beaten  into  it,  and  the  force- 
meat thus  made  rolled  into  oblong  shapes,  dipped  in  egg 
and  pounded  cracker,  and  fried  like  croquettes,  for  a  side 
dish,  to  "  make  out "  a  dinner  of  ham  or  cold  meat 

Ragout  op  Turkey. 

This  is  also  a  cheap,  yet  nice  dish.  Cut  the  cold  tur- 
key from  the  bones  and  into  bits  an  inch  long  with  knife 
and  fork,  tearing  as  little  as  possible.  Put  into  a  skillet 
or  saucepan  the  gravy  left  from  the  roast,  with  hot  water 
to  dilute  it  should  the  quantity  be  small.  Add  a  lump  of 
butter  the  si^e  of  an  ^gg^  a  teaspoonful  of  pungent  sauce, 
a  large  pinch  of  nutmeg,  with  a  little  salt.  Let  it  boil, 
and  put  in  the  meat  Stew  very  slowly  for  ten  minutes — ^not 
more — and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cranberry  or  currant 
jelly,  another  of  browned  flour  which  has  been  wet  with 
4 


74 

cold  water;  laatlj,  a  ^ass  of  brown  Sherry  or  Madeira. 
Boil  up  ODoe,  and  serve  in  a  covered  dish  for  break&st. 
Leave  out  the  stuffing  entirely ;  it  is  no  improvement  to  the 
flavor,  and  disfigures  the  appearance  of  the  ragodt. 

Boast  Chickekb. 

Having  picked  and  drawn  them,  wash  out  well  in  two 
or  three  waters,  adding  a  little  soda  to  the  last  but  one 
should  any  doubtful  odor  linger  about  the  cavity.  Pre- 
pare a  stuffing  of  bread-crumbs,  butter,  pepper,  salt,  &c. 
Fill  the  bodies  and  crops  of  the  chickens,  which  should  be 
young  and  plump ;  sew  them  up,  and  roast  an  hour  or 
more,  in  proportion  to  their  size.  Baste  two  or  l;hree 
times  with  butter  and  water,  afterward  with  their  own 
gravy.  If  laid  flat  within  the  dripping  pan,  put  in  at  the 
first  a  little  hot  water  to  prevent  burning. 

Stew  the  giblets  and  necks  in  enough  water  to  cover 
them,  and,  when  you  have  removed  the  fowls  to  a  hot 
dish,  pour  this  into  the  drippings ;  boil  up  once ;  add  the 
giblets,  chopped  fine ;  thicken  with  browned  flour ;  boil 
again,  and  send  to  table  in  a  gravy-boat. 

Serve  with  crab-apple  jelly  or  tomato  sauce. 

Boiled  Chickens. 

Clean,  wash,  and  8tufi!*as  for  roasting.  Baste  a  floured 
cloth  around  each,  and  put  into  a  pot  with  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  them  well.  The  hot  water  cooks  the  skin 
at  once,  and  prevents  the  escape  of  the  juices.  The  broth 
will  not  be  so  rich  as  if  the  fowls  are  put  on  in  cold  water, 
but  this  is  a  proof  that  the  meat  will  be  moce  nutritious 
and  better  flavored.  Stew  very  slowly,  for  the  first  half 
hour  especially.  Boil  an  hour  or  more,  guiding  yourself 
by  size  and  toughness. 

Serve  with  egg  or  bread  sauce.    (See  Sauces.) 


76 


Fricasseed  Chicken.    (  White.)  >{< 

Qean,  wash,  and  cut  up  the  fowls,  which  need  not  be  so 
tender  as  for  roasting.  Lay  them  in  salt  and  water  for 
half  an  hour.  Put  them  in  a  pot  with  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  them,  and  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  cut 
into  thin  strips.  Cover  closely,  and  let  them  heat  very 
slowly ;  then  stew  for  over  an  hour,  if  the  fowls  are  tender. 
I  have  used  chickens  for  this  purpose  that  required  four 
hours  stewing,  but  they  were  tender  and  good  when  done. 
Only  put  them  on  in  season,  and  cook  very  slowly.  If 
they  boil  fast,  they  toughen  and  shrink  into  uneatableness. 
When  tender,  add  a  chopped  onion  or  two,  parsley,  and 
pepper.  Cover  closely  again,  and,  when  it  has  heated  to 
boiling,  stir  in  a  teacupful  of  milk,  to  which  have  been 
added  two  beaten  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
Boil  up  fairly;  add  a  great  spoonful  of  butter.  Arrange 
the  chicken  neatly  in  a  deep  chafing-dish,  pour  the  gravy 
over  it,  and  serve. 

In  this,  as  in  all  cases  where  beaten  egg  is  added  to  hot 
liquor,  it  is  best  to  dip  out  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  latter, 
and  drop  a  little  at  a  time  into  the  egg,  beating  all  the 
while,  that  it  may  heat  evenly  and  gradually  before  it  is 
put  into  the  scalding  contents  of  the  saucepan  or  pot. 
Eggs  managed  in  this  way  will  not  curdle,  as  they  are  apt 
to  do  if  thrown  suddenly  into  hot  liquid. 

Fricasseed  Chicken.    (Broum,)  ^ 

Clean,  wash,  and  cut  up  a  pair  of  young  chickens.  Lay 
in  clear  water  for  half  an  hour.  If  they  are  old,  you 
cannot  brown  them  well.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan,  with 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  them  well,  and  set  over  the 
fire  to  heat  slowly.  Meanwhile,  cut  half  a  pound  of  salt 
pork  into  strips,  Jtnd  fry  cnsp.    Take  them  out,  chop  fine, 


7S  ooMMOV  senbr; 

and  put  into  the  pot  with  the  chicken.  Fry  in  the  fat  left 
in  the  frying-pan  one  large  onion,  or  two  or  three  small 
ones,  cut  into  slices.  Let  them  brown  well,  and  add  them 
also  to  the  chicken,  with  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  allspice 
and  cloves.  Stew  all  together  slowly  for  an  hour  or  more, 
until  the  meat  is  very  tender;  you  can  test  this  with  a  fork. 
Take  out  the  pieces  of  fowl  and  put  in  a  hot  dish,  cover- 
ing closely  until  the  gravy  is  ready.  Add  to  this  a  great 
spoonful  of  walnut  or  other  dark  catsup,  and  nearly  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  browned  flour,  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
and  a  glass  of  brown  Sherry.  Boil  up  once;  strain  through 
a  cullender,  to  remove  the  bits  of  pork  and  onion  ;  return 
to  the  pot,  with  the  chicken ;  let  it  come  to  a  final  boil, 
and  serve,  pouring  the  gravy  over  the  pieces  of  fowl. 

Broiled  Chicken. 

It  is  possible  to  render  a  tough  fowl  eatable  by  boiling 
or  stewing  it  with  care.  Never  broil  such !  And  even 
when  assured  that  your  *'  broiler  "  is  young,  it  is  wise  to 
make  this  doubly  sure  by  laying  it  upon  sticks  extending 
from  side  to  side  of  a  dripping-pan  full  of  boiling  water. 
Set  this  in  the  oven,  invert  a  tin  pan  over  the  chicken,  and 
let  it  steam  for  half  an  hour.  This  process  relaxes  the 
muscles,  and  renders  supple  the  joints,  besides  preserving 
the  juices  that  would  be  lost  in  parboiling.  The  chicken 
should  be  split  down  the  back,  and  wiped  perfectly  dry 
before  it  is  steamed.  Transfer  from  the  vapor-bath  to  a 
buttered  gridiron,  inside  downward.  Cover  with  a  tin  pan 
or  common  plate,  and  broil  until  tender  and  brown,  turn- 
ing several  times ;  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
will  be  sufficient.  Put  into  a  hot  chafing-dish,  and  but- 
ter very  well.     Send  to  table  smoking  hot 

Fried  Chicken  {No.  1). 
Glean,  wash,  and  cut  to  pieces  a  couple  of  Spring  chick- 


POULTRY.  77 

ens.  Have  ready  in  a  frying-pan  enough  boiling  lard  or 
dripping  to  cover  them  well.  Dip  each  piece  in  beaten 
egg  when  you  have  salted  it,  then  in  cracker-crumbs,  and 
fry  until  brown.  If  the  chicken  is  large,  steam  it  before 
frying,  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  receipt.  When  you 
have  taken  out  the  meat,  throw  into  the  hot  fat  a  dozen 
sprigs  of  parsley^  and  let  them  remain  a  minute — just 
long  enough  to  crisp,  but  not  to  dry  them.  Garnish  the 
chicken  by  strewing  these  over  it. 

Fried  Chicken  (No.  2). 

Cut  up  half  a  pound  of  &t  salt  pork  in  a  frying-pan, 
and  fry  until  the  grease  is  extracted,  but  not  until  it 
browns.  Wash  and  cut  up  a  young  chicken  (broiling 
size),  soak  in  salt  and  water  for  half  an  hour;  wipe  dry, 
season  with  pepper,  and  dredge  with  flour ;  then  fry  in  the 
hot  fat  until  each  piece  is  a  rich  brown  on  both  sides. 
Take  up,  drain,  and  set  aside  in  a  hot  covered  dish.  Pour 
into  the  gravy  left  in  the  frying-pan  a  cup  of  milk — ^half 
cream  is  better;  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of  flour  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter ;  add  some  chopped  pai*sley,  boil 
up,  and  pour  over  the  hot  chicken.  This  is  a  standard 
dish  in  the  Old  Dominion,  and  tastes  nowhere  else  as  it 
does  when  eaten  on  Virginia  soil.  The  cream  gravy  is 
often  omitted,  and  the  chicken  served  up  dry,  with 
bunches  of  fried  parsley  dropped  upon  it 

Chicken  Pot-pie. 

Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  pot  with  a  good  rich 
paste,  reserving  enough  for  a  top  crust  and  for  the  square 
bits  to  be  scattered  through  the  pie.  Butter  the  pot  very 
lavishly,  or  your  pastry  will  stick  to  it  and  burn.  Cut  up 
a  fine  large  fowl,  and  half  a  pound  of  corned  ham  or  salt 
pork.    Put  in  a  layer  of  the  latter,  pepper  it,  and  cover 


78  COMMON  BEN8E. 

with  pieces  of  the  chicken,  and  this  with  the  paste  dump- 
lings or  squares.  If  you  use  potatoes,  parboil  them  before 
putting  them  into  the  pie,  as  the  first  water  in  which  they 
are  boiled  is  rank  and  unwholesome.  The  potatoes  should 
be  sliced  and  laid  next  the  pastry  squares ;  then  another 
layer  of  pork,  and  so  on  until  your  chicken  is  used  up. 
Cover  with  pastry  rolled  out  quite  thick,  and  slit  this  in 
the  middle.  Heat  very  slowly,  and  boil  two  hours.  Turn 
into  a  large  dish,  the  lower  crust  on  top,  and  the  gravy 
about  it 

This  is  the  old-fashioned  pot-pie,  dear  to  the  memory  of 
men  who  were  school-boys  thirty  and  forty  years  ago.  If 
you  are  not  experienced  in  such  manufactures,  you  would 
better  omit  the  lower  crust;  and,  having  browned  the 
upper,  by  putting  a  hot  pot-lid  or  stove-cover  on  top  of 
the  pot  for  some  minutes,  remove  dexterously  without 
breaking.  Pour  out  the  chicken  into  a  dish,  and  set  the 
crust  above  it 

Veal,  beef-steak,  lamb  (not  mutton),  hares,  &c.>  may 

be  substituted  for  the  chicken.      The  pork  will  salt  it 

sufficiently. 

Baked  Chicken  Pie  >J< 

Is  made  as  above,  but  baked  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish, 
and,  in  place  of  the  potatoes,  three  hard-boiled  eggs  are 
chopped  up  and  strewed  among  the  pieces  of  chicken.  If 
the  chickens  are  tough,  or  even  doubtful,  parboil  them  be- 
fore making  the  pie,  adding  the  water  in  which  they  were 
boiled,  instead  of  cold  water,  for  gravy.  If  they  are 
lean,  put  in  a  few  bits  of  butter.  Ornament  with  leaves 
cut  out  with  a  cake-cutter,  and  a  star  in  the  centre. 
Bake  an  hour — more,  if  the  pic  is  large. 

Chicken  Pudding.  >I< 
Cut  up  as  for  fricassee,  and  parboil,  seasoning  well  with 


W>ULTitir.  79 

pepper,  salt,  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  to 
each  chicken.  The  fowls  should  be  young  and  tender,  and 
divided  at  every  joint  Stew  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  take 
them  out,  and  lay  on  a  flat  dish  to  cool.  Set  aside  the 
water  in  which  they  were  stewed  for  your  gravy. 

Make  a  batter  of  one  quart  of  milk,  three  cups  of 
flour,  three  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  one  rounded 
teaspoonful  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder,  four  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  a  little  salt.  Put  a  layer  of  chicken  in  the 
bottom  of  the  dish,  and  pour  about  half  a  cupful  of 
batter  over  it — enough  to  conceal  the  meat ;  then,  another 
layer  of  chicken,  and  more  batter,  until  the  dish  is  full. 
The  batter  must  form  the  crust.  Bake  one  hour,  in  a 
moderate  oven,  if  the  dish  is  large. 

Beat  up  an  egg,  and  stir  into  the  gravy  which  was  set 

aside ;  thicken  with  two  teadpoonfuls  of  rice  or  wheat  flour, 

add  a  little  chopped  parsley ;  boil  up,  and  send  it  to  table 

in  a  gravy-boat. 

Chicken  and  Ham.  ^ 

Draw,  wash,  and  stuff*  a  pair  of  young  fowls.  Cut 
enough  large,  thick  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham  to  envelop 
these  entirely,  wrapping  them  up  carefully,  and  winding  a 
string  about  all,  to  prevent  the  ham  from  falling  off!  Put 
into  your  dripping-pan,  with  a  little  water  to  prevent 
scorching  ;  dashing  it  over  the  meat  lest  it  should  dry  and 
shrink.  Invert  a  tin  pan  over  all,  and  bake  slowly  for  one 
hour  and  a  quarter,  if  the  fowls  are  small  and  tender — 
longer,  if  tough.  Lift  the  cover  from  time  to  time  to  baste 
with  the  drippings — the  more  frequently  as  time  wears 
on.  Test  the  tenderness  of  the  fowls,  by  sticking  a  fork 
through  the  ham  into  the  breast.  When  done,  Undo  the 
strings,  lay  the  fowls  in  a  hot  dish,  and  the  slices  of  ham 
about  them.  Stir  into  the  dripping  a  little  chopped  pars- 
ley, a  tablespoonfiil  of  browned  flour  wet  in  cold  water ; 


80  OOMMOV  8B3ff8B. 

pepper,  and  let  it  boil  up  once.  Pour  some  of  it  over  the 
chickens — not  enough  to  float  the  ham  in  the  dish ;  serve 
the  rest  in  a  gravy-boat 

Roast  Ducks. 

Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  the  ducks  verj  carefully.  To  the 
usual  dressing  add  a  little  sage  (powdered  or  green),  and 
a  minced  shallot.  Stuff,  and  sew  up  as  usual,  reserving  the 
giblets  for  the  gravy.  If  they  are  tender,  they  will  not  re- 
quire more  than  an  hour  to  roast  Baste  well.  Skim  the 
gravy  before  putting  in  the  giblets  and  thickening.  The 
giblets  should  be  stewed  in  a  very  little  water,  then  chopped 
fine,  and  added  to  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan,  with  a 
chopped  shallot  and  a  spoonful  of  browned  flour. 

Accompany  with  currant  or  grape  jelly. 

To  Use  up  Cold  Duck.  >J< 

I  may  say,  as  preface,  that  cold  duck  is  in  itself  an  ex- 
cellent supper  dish,  or  side  dish,  at  a  family  dinner,  and  is 
often  preferred  to  hot.  If  the  duck  has  been  cut  into  at  all, 
divide  neatly  into  joints,  and  slice  the  breast,  laying  slices 
of  dressing  about  it.  Oarnish  with  lettuce  or  parsley,  and 
eat  with  jelly. 

But  if  a  warm  dish  is  desired,  cut  the  meat  from  the 
bones  and  lay  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  little  minced  cold 
ham  ;  pour  on  just  enough  water  to  cover  it,  and  stir  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cover,  and  heat  gradually,  until 
it  is  near  boiling.  Then  add  the  gravy,  diluted  with  a  little 
hot  water ;  a  great  spoonful  of  catsup,  one  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  and  one  of  currant  or  cranberry  jelly,  with  a 
glass  of  wine  and  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour. 

Or, 

You  may  put  the  gravy,  with  a  little  hot  water  and  a  lump 
of  butter,  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is  hot  lay  in  the 


POULTBY.  81 

pieces  of  duck,  and  warm  up  quickly,  stirring  in  at  the 
last  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  table- 
spoonfiil  of  jelly. 

Serve  in  a  hot  chafing-dish. 

(For  wild  ducks,  see  Game.) 

Stewed  Duck. 

This  is  a  good  way  to  treat  an  old  tough  fowl. 

Clean  and  divide,  as  you  would  a  chicken  for  fricassee. 
Put  in  a  saucepan,  with  several  (minced)  slices  of  cold 
ham  or  salt  pork  which  is  not  too  fat,  and  stew  slowly  for 
at  least  an  hour — keeping  the  lid  on  all  the  while.  Then 
stir  in  a  chopped  onion,  a  half-spoonful  of  powdered  sage, 
or  of  the  green  leaves  cut  fine,  half  as  much  parsley,  a  table- 
spoonful  catsup,  and  black  pepper.  Stew  another  half- 
hour,  or  until  the  duck  is  tender,  and  add  a  teaspoonful 
brown  sugar,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour,  pre- 
viously wet  with  cold  water.  Boil  up  once,  and  serve  in 
a  deep  covered  dish,  with  green  peas  as  an  accompaniment 

Guinea  Fowls. 

Many  are  not  aware  what  an  excellent  article  of  food 
these  speckled  Arabs  of  the  poultry-yard  are.  They  are 
kept  chiefly  for  the  beauty  of  their  plumage,  and  their  de- 
licious eggs,  which  are  far  richer  than  those  of  chickens. 

Unless  young  they  are  apt  to  be  tough,  and  the  dark 
color  of  the  meat  is  objected  to  by  those  who  are  not  fond 
of,  or  used  to  eating  game.  Gooked  according  to  the  fore- 
going receipt  they  are  very  savory,  no  matter  how  old  they 
may  be.  Put  them  on  early,  and  stew  slowly,  and  good 
management  will  bring  the  desired  end  to  pass.  There  is 
nothing  in  the  shape  of  game  or  poultry  that  is  not  ame- 
nable to  this  process,  providing  the  salt  be  omitted  until 

the  meat  is  tender. 

4» 


812  cotaxMf  nsrsB. 

But  a  {Miir  hi  youtig  Guinea  fowb,  stuffed  and  roasted, 
basting  them  with  butter  until  they  are  half  done,  deserve 
au  honorable  place  upon  our  bill  of  fare.  Season  the 
gravy  with  a  chopped  shallot,  parsley,  or  summer  savory, 
not  omitting  the  minced  giblets,  and  thicken  with  browned 
flour.  Send  around  currant,  or  other  tart  jelly,  with  the 
fowL     A  little  ham,  minced  fine,  improves  the  dressing. 

Roast  Goose. 

Clean  and  wash  the  goose — not  forgetting  to  put  a  spoon- 
ful of  soda  in  next  to  the  last  water,  rinse  out  well,  and 
wipe  the  inside  quite  dry.  Add  to  the  usual  stuffing  of 
bread-crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  etc.,  a  tablespoonful  melted 
butter,  an  onion  chopped  fine,  a  tablespoonful  chopped 
sage,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  some  minute  bits  of  £Eit 
pork.  Stuff  body  and  craw,  and  sew  up.  It  will  take 
fully  two  hours  to  roast,  if  the  fire  is  strong.  Cover  the 
breast,  until  it  is  half  done,  with  white  paper,  or  a  paste 
of  flour  and  water,  removing  this  when  you  are  ready  to 
brown. 

Make  a  gravy  as  for  roast  duck,  adding  a  glass  of  Sher^ 
ry  or  Madeira,  or  (if  you  can  get  it)  old  Port 

Send  to  table  with  cranberry  or  apple  sauce. 

Goose  Pie. 

An  old  goose  is  as  nearly  good  for  nothing  as  it  is  possi- 
ble for  anything  which  was  once  valuable,  and  is  not  now 
absolutely  spoiled,  to  be.  The  best  use  to  put  it  to  is  to 
make  it  into  a  pie,  in  the  following  manner.  Put  on  the 
ancient  early  in  the  morning,  in  cold  water  enough  to 
cover  it,  unsalted,  having  cut  it  to  pieces  at  every  joint. 
Warm  it  up  gradually,  and  let  it  stew — ^not  boil  hard — 
for  four  or  five  hours.  Should  the  water  need  replenish- 
ing, let  it  be  done  from  the  boiling  kettle.     Parboil  a 


beefs  tongue  (corned),  cut  into  sUoes  nearly  half  an  inch 
thick ;  also  slioe  six  hard-boiled  eggs.  Line  a  deep  pud- 
ding-dish  with  a  good  paste ;  lay  in  the  pieces  of  goose,  the 
^biets  chopped,  the  sliced  tongue  and  egg,  in  consecutive 
layers ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  bits  of  butter,  and 
proceed  in  this  order  until  the  dish  is  full.  If  the  goose 
be  large,  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  after  stewing,  and 
leave  out  the  latter  entirely.  Intersperse  with  strips  of 
paste,  and  fill  up  with  the  gravy  in  which  the  goose  was 
Btewed,  thickened  with  flour.  Cover  with  a  thick  paste, 
and  when  it  is  done,  brush  over  the  top  with  beaten  white 

of^g. 

In  cold  weather  this  pie  will  keep  a  week,  and  is  very 
good. 

Roast  Pigeons. 

Clean,  wash,  and  stuff  as  you  would  chickens.  Lay 
them  in  rows,  if  roasted  in  the  oven,  with  a  little  water  in 
the  pan  to  prevent  scorching.  Unless  they  are  very  fat, 
baste  with  butter  until  they  are  half  done,  afterwards 
with  their  own  gravy.  Thicken  the  gravy  that  drips 
from  them,  and  boil  up  once ;  then  pour  into  a  gravy-boat 
The  pigeons  should  lie  close  together  in  the  dish. 

Stewed  Pigeons. 

Pick,  draw,  clean  and  stuff  as  above  directed.  Put  the 
pigeons  in  a  deep  pot  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
them,  and  stew  gently  for  an  hour,  or  until,  testing  them 
with  a  fork,  you  find  them  tender.  Then  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  a  little  sweet  marjoram, 
and  a  good  piece  of  butter.  Stew,  or  rather  simmer,  for 
five  minutes  longer— then  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  browned 
flour.  Let  it  boil  up  once ;  remove  the  pigeons,  draw  out 
the  strings  with  which  they  were  sewed  up,  and  serve, 
pouring  the  hot  gravy  over  them.    A  little  salt  pork  o^ 


84  COHMOIT  SKITBB. 

ham,  cut  into  rtripe,  ia  an  improTement. 
put  in  vbeo  the  pigeons  have  stewed  haU 

Broiled  Piqeonb  ob  Squ, 
Young  pigeons  or  "squabs"  ar«  rig 
great  delicacy.  They  are  cleaned,  m» 
carefully  with  a  clean  cloth ;  then  split 
and  broiled  like  chickens.  Season  nitb 
and  butter  liberally  in  dishing  them.  1 
request  in  a  convalescent'e  room,  being  [ 
and  nourishing. 

They  may,  for  a  change,  be  roasted  wh 
the  receipt  for  roast  pigeons. 

FiOEON   Pie. 
Is  best  made  of  wild  pigeons. 


MEATS. 
Boast  Beef. 
The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the 
pieces.  The  latter  are  oftenest  used  b; 
Make  your  butcher  remove  most  of  the  1 
the  meat  into  the  shape  of  a  round.  If 
oven,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  dash  a  smal 
water  over  the  meat  in  first  putting  it 
trickle  into  the  pan.  This,  for  a  season,  c 
of  the  juices,  and  allows  the  meat  to  get 
before  the  top  dries  by  said  escape.  If  1 
upon  the  upper  surface,  cover  with  a  pi 
water  until  it  is  nearly  done.  Baste  fr 
with  salt  and  water,  afterward  with  thedi 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  a  pound. 


BEEF.  85 

meat  rare;  more,  if  yon  prefer  to  have  it  well  done. 
Some,  when  the  meat  is  almost  done,  dredge  with  flour 
and  baste  with  butter — only  once. 

Remove  the  beef,  when  quite  ready,  to  a  heated  dish ; 
skim  the  drippings ;  add  a  teacupful  of  boiling  water, 
boil  up  once,  and  send  to  table  in  a  gravy-boat  Many 
reject  made  gravy  altogether,  and  only  serve  the  red 
liquor  that  runs  from  the  meat  into  the  dbh  as  it  is  cut 
This  is  the  practice  with  some — ^indeed  most  of  our  best 
housekeepers.  If  you  have  made  gravy  in  a  sauce-boat, 
give  your  guest  his  choice  between  that  and  the  juice  in 
the  dish. 

Serve  with  mustard,  or  scraped  horse-radish  and  vinegar. 

Roast  Beef  with  Yorkshike  Pudding.  ^ 

Set  a  piece  of  beef  to  roast  upon  a  grating,  or  several 
sticks  laid  across  a  dripping-pan.  Three-quarters  of  an 
hour  before  it  is  done,  mix  the  pudding  and  pour  into  the 
pan.  Continue  to  roast  the  beef,  the  dripping  meanwhile 
falling  upon  the  latter  below.  When  both  are  done,  cut 
the  pudding  into  squares,  and  lay  around  the  meat  when 
dished.  If  there  is  much  fat  in  the  dripping-pan  before 
the  pudding  is  ready  to  be  put  in,  drain  it  off,  leaving  just 
enough  to  prevent  the  batter  from  sticking  to  the  bottom- 

Receipt  for  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

2  cups  of  prepared  flour. 

1  teaspoon^l  salt- 
Be  careful,  in  mixing,  not  to  get  the  batter  too  stiff. 
This  pudding,  which  the  cook  who  introduced  it  into  my 

family  persisted  in  calling  "  Auction  pudding,"  is  very 
palatable  and  popular,    and    not  so  rich  as  would  be 


86 


COMMON  9l9re£. 


thought  from  the  manner  of  baking.    It  should  be  a  yel 
iow-brown  when  done. 

Beep-Steak. 

It  is  not  customary  to  fry  beef-steaks  for  people  who 
know  what  really  good  cookery  is.  To  speak  more 
plainly,  a  steak,  killed  by  heat  and  swimming  in  grease, 
is  a  culinary  solecism,  both  vulgar  and  indigestible. 

Cut  the  steak  thick,  at  least  three-quarters  of  an  inch 
in  thickness,  and  if  you  cannot  get  lender  meat  for  this 
purpose,  it  is  best  to  substitute  some  other  dish  for  it. 
But  since  tender  meat  is  not  always  to  be  had,  if  the  piece 
you  have  purchased  is  doubtful,  lay  it  on  a  clean  cloth, 
take  a  blunt  heavy  carving-knife,  if  you  have  not  a  steak 
mallet,  and  hack  closely  from  one  end  to  the  other ;  then 
turn  and  repeat  the  process  upon  the  other  side.  The 
knife  should  be  so  dull  you  cannot  cut  with  it,  and  the 
strokes  not  the  sixtieth  part  of  an  inch  apart.  Wipe  all 
over  on  both  sides  with  lemon-juiee,  cover,  and  leave  it  in 
a  cool  place  for  one  hour.  Lay  on  a  buttered  gridiron 
over  a  clear  fire,  turning  very  often  as  it  begins  to  drip. 
Do  not  season  until  it  is  done,  which  will  be  in  about 
twelve  minutes,  if  the  fire  is  good  and  the  cook  attentive. 
Rub  your  hot  chafing  dish  with  a  split  raw  onion,  lay  in 
the  steak,  salt  and  pepper  on  both  sides,  and  put  a  liberal 
lump  of  butter  upon  the  upper.  Then  put  on  a  hot  cover, 
and  let  it  stand  five  minutes  to  draw  the  juices  to  the  sur- 
face before  it  is  eaten.  If  you  have  neither  chafing-dish 
nor  cover,  lay  the  steak  between  two  hot  platters  for  the 
same  time,  sending  to  table  without  uncovering.  A  grid- 
iron fitting  under  the  grate  is  better  than  any  other.  If 
a  gridiron  is  not  at  hand,  rub  a  little  butter  upon  the 
bottom  of  a  hot,  clean  frying-pan,  put  in  the  meat,  set 
over  a  bright  fire,  and  turn  frequently.     This  will  not  be 


87 

equal  to  steak  cooked  upon  a  gridiron,  but  it  is  infinitely 
preferable  to  the  same  fried. 

I  shall  never  forget  the  wondering  distrust  with  which 
my  first  cook,  a  sable  **  professional/'  watched  me  when  I 
undertook  to  show  her  how  to  prepare  a  steak  for  the 
third  breakfiist  over  which  I  presided  as  mistress  of  cere- 
monies. And  when,  at  the  end  of  twelve  minutes,  I 
removed  the  meat,  "  rare  and  hot,"  to  the  heated  dish  in 
readiness,  her  snifi*  of  lofty  contempt  was  as  eloquent  as 
indescribable. 

"  Call  dat  cooked  !  Folks  'bout  here  would  'a  had  dat 
steak  on  by  day-break  1" 

A  remark  that  has  been  recalled  to  my  mind  hundreds 
of  times  since  at  the  tables  of  so- called  capital  house- 
wives- 

The  best — nay,  the  only  pieces  for  steak  are  those 
known  aA  porter-house  and  sirloin.  The  former  is  the 
more  highly  esteemed  by  gourmands  ;  but  a  really  tender 
sirloin  is  more  serviceable  where  there  are  several  persons 
in  the  family,  the  porter-house  having  a  narrow  strip  of 
extremely  nice  meat  lying  next  the  bone,  while  the  rest  is 
often  inferior  to  any  part  of  the  sirloin.  If  the  meat  be 
tender  omit  the  hacking  process  and  lemon-juice. 

Beef-bteak  and  Onions. 

Prepare  the  steak  as  above  directed.  While  it  is  broil- 
ing put  three  or  four  chopped  onions  in  a  frying-pan  with 
a  little  beef-dripping  or  butter.  8tir  and  shake  them 
briskly  until  they  are  done,  and  begin  to  brown.  Dish 
your  steak  and  lay  the  onions  thickly  on  top.  Cover 
and  let  all  stand  five  or  six  minutes,  that  the  hot  onions  may 
impart  the  required  flavor  to  the  hot  meat.  In  helping 
your  guests,  inquire  if  they  will  take  onions  with  the 
ilioet  of  steak  put  upon  their  plates.    I  need  hardly  re- 


88-  COMMON  SENSE. 

mind  the  sensible  cook  how  necessary  it  is  to  withdraw 
the  gridiron  from  the  fire  for  an  instant,  should  the  faX 
drip  upon  the  coals  below,  and  smoke  or  blaze.  Yet 
those  who  have  eaten  steaks  flavored  with  creosote  may 
thank  me  for  the  suggestion. 

Beef  a-la-mobe.  >{< 

Take  a  round  of  beef;  remove  the  bone  from  the  mid- 
dle, and  trim  away  the  tougher  bits  about  the  edges,  with 
such  gristle,  &c.,  as  you  can  reach.  Set  these  aside  for 
soup-stock. 

Bind  the  beef  into  a  symmetrical  shape  by  passing  a 
strip  of  stout  muslin,  as  wide  as  the  round  is  high,  about 
it,  and  stitching  the  ends  together  at  one  side.  Have 
ready  at  least  a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork,  cut  into  strips  as 
thick  as  your  middle  finger,  and  long  enough  to  reach 
from  top  to  bottom  of  the  trussed  round.  Put  a  half 
pint  of  vinegar  over  the  fire  in  a  tin  or  porcelain  sauce- 
pan ;  season  with  three  or  four  minced  shallots  or  button 
onions,  two  teaspoonfuls  made  mustard,  a  teaspoonfiil 
nutmeg,  one  of  cloves,  half  as  much  allspice,  halfnspoonful 
black  pepper,  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  minced  fine, 
and  a  tablespoonful  brown  sugar.  Let  all  simmer  for  five 
minutes,  then  boil  up  once,  and  pour,  ^hile  scalding  hot, 
upon  the  strips  of  pork,  which  should  be  laid  in  a  deep 
dish.  Let  all  stand  together  until  cold.  Remove  the 
pork  to  a  plate,  and  mix  with  the  liquor  left  in  the  dish 
enough  bread-crumbs  to  make  a  tolerably  stiff  force-meat 
If  the  vinegar  is  very  strong,  dilute  with  a  little  water 
before  moistening  the  crumbs.  With  a  long,  thin-bladed 
knife,  make  perpendicular  incisions  in  the  meat,  not  more 
than  half  an  inch  apart,  even  nearer  is  better ;  thrust 
into,  these  the  stripy  of  fat  pork,  so  far  down  that  the 
upper  ends  are  just  level  with  the  surface,  and  work  into 


BBEir.  89 

the  cavities  with  them  a  little  of  the  foroe-meat  Proceed 
thus  until  the  meat  is  fairly  riddled  and  plugged  with  the 
pork.  Fill  the  hole  from  which  the  bone  was  taken  with 
the  dressing  and  bits  of  pork ;  rub  the  upper  side  of  the 
beef  well  with  the  spiced  force-meat.  Put  into  a  baking- 
pan  ;  half-fill  this  with  boiling  water ;  turn  a  large  pan 
over  it  to  keep  in  the  steam,  and  roast  slowly  for  five  or 
six  hours,  allowing  half  an  hour  to  each  pound  of  meat 
If  the  beef  be  tough,  you  had  better  stew  the  round  by 
putting  it  in  a  pot  with  half  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
it  Cover  tightly  and  stew  very  slowly  for  six  hours; 
then  set  in  the  oven  with  the  gravy  about  it,  and  brown 
half  an  hour,  basting  frequently. 

If  you  roast  the  round,  do  not  remove  the  cover,  except 
to  baste  (and  this  should  be  done  often),  until  fifteen 
minutes  before  you  draw  it  from  the  oven.  Set  away 
with  the  muslin  band  still  about  it,  .and  pour  the  gravy 
over  the  meat 

When  cold,  lift  from  the  gravy, — ^which,  by  the  way, 
will  be  excellent  seasoning  for  your  soup-stock, — cut  the 
stitches  in  the  muslin  girdle,  remove  carefully  and  send 
the  meat  to  table,  cold,  garnished  with  parsley  and  nas- 
turtium blossoms.  Carve  horizontally,  in  slices  thin  as  a 
shaving.  Do  not  ofier  the  outside  to  any  one ;  but  the 
second  cut  will  be  handsomely  marbled  with  the  white 
pork,  which  appearance  should  continue  all  the  way 
down. 

I  cannot  too  highly  commend  this  as  a  side^lish  at 
dinner,  and  a  supper  and  breakfast  stand-by.  In  winter 
it  will  keep  a  week  and  more,  and  as  long  in  summer,  if 
kept  in  the  refrigerator — except  when  it  is  on  the  table. 

Breakfast  Stew  of  Beef.  >{< 
Cut  up  two  pounds  of  beef— not  too  lean^-into  pieces 


80  OOMMOV  0]prBB. 

an  inch  long;  put  diem  into  a  saucepan  with  just  enougli 
water  to  cover  them,  and  stew  gently  for  two  hours.  Bet 
awaj  until  next  morning,  when  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
sweet  marjoram  or  summer  savory,  chopped  onion,  and 
parsley.  Stew  half  an  hour  longer,  and  add  a  teaspoonfiil 
of  sauce  or  catsup,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour 
wet  up  with  cold  water ;  finally,  if  you  wish  to  have  it 
very  good,  half  a  glass  of  wine.  Boil  up  once,  and  pour 
into  a  covered  deep  dish. 

This  is  an  economical  dish,  for  it  can  be  made  of  the 
commoner  parts  of  the  beef,  and  exceedingly  nice  for 
winter  breakfasts.  Eaten  with  corn-bread  and  stewed 
potetoes,  it  will  soon  win  its  way  to  a  place  in  the  **  stock 
company ''  of  every  judicious  housewifa 

Another  Breakfast  Dish. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  roast  beef,  and  lay  them  iii  a  tin 
saucepan  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Cover  them  with 
a  gravy  made  of  three  tablespoonfiils  of  melted  butter, 
one  of  walnut  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  vin^ar,  a  little  salt 
and  pepper,  a  spoonful  of  currant  jelly,  a  teaspoonful  made 
mustard,  and  some  warm  water.  Cover  tightly,  and  steam 
for  half  an  hour,  keeping  the  water  in  the  outer  vessel  on 
a  hard  boil. 

If  the  meat  is  under-done,  this  is  particularly  nice. 

Beef  Hash. 

To  two  parts  cold  roast  or  boiled  corned  beef,  chopped 
fine,  put  one  of  mashed  potatoes,  a  little  pepper,  salt, 
milk,  and  melted  butter.  Turn  all  into  a  frying-pan,  and 
stir  until  it  is  heated  through  and  smoking  hot,  but  not 
until  it  browns.  Put  into  a  deep  dish,  and  if  stiff  enough, 
smooth  as  you  would  mashed  potato,  into  a  hillock. 

Or,  you  can  cease  stirriQg  tot  a  few  minutes,  and  let  a 


BBEF.  01 

brown  crust  form  on  the  Under  side;  then  tarft  out 
whole  into  a  flat  dish,  the  brown  side  uppermost 

Or,  mould  the  mixture  into  flat  cakes;  dip  these  in 
beaten  egg,  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  drippings. 

The  remains  of  beef  a  lor^mode  are  very  good  prepared 
in  any  of  these  ways.  A  little  catsup  and  mustard  are  an 
improvement  to  plain  cold  beef,  thus  hashed. 

Be£f-6T£Ak  Pie. 

Cut  the  steak  into  pieces  an  inch  long,  and  stew  with 
the  bone  (cracked)  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  the  meat 
until  it  is  half-done.  At  the  same  time  parboil  a  dozen 
potatoes  in  another  pot  If  you  wish  a  bottom  crust — a 
doubtful  question — ^line  a  pudding-dish  with  a  good  paste, 
made  according  to  the  receipt  given  below.  Put  in  a 
layer  of  the  beef,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  very  little 
chopped  onion;  then  one  of  sliced  potatoes,  with  a  little 
butter  scattered  upon  them,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  ib 
full.  Pour  over  all  the  gravy  in  which  the  meat  was 
stewed,  having  first  thrown  away  the  bone  and  thickened 
with  browned  flour.  Cover  with  a  crust  thicker  than  the 
lower,  leaving  a  slit  in  the  middle. 

Crust  for  Meat-Pies.  >J< 

1  quart  of  flour. 

3  tablespooufuls  of  lard. 

2k  cups  milk. 

1  rounded  teaspoonful   of  Cleveland's  Baking 

Powder. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Work  up  very  lightly  and  quickly,  and  do  not 

get  too  stiff. 


If  jrou  can  get  preparo 
Powder. 

Beef  Pie,  with  ] 
Hince  some  rare  roast  bee 
not  too  Bait ;  season  with  pe 
layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  pud 
of  maahed  potato,  and  stick  1 
it;  then  another  of  meat,  ai 
for  the  crust. 

To  a  large  capful  of  ms 
epoonfula  of  melted  butter,  a 
milk,  aod  beat  all  together  u 
in  enough  flour  to  enable  70 
too  stiff — and,  when  you  hi 
potato  in  the  dish  a  gravy 
milk,  and  catsup,  with  what 
mains  from  the  "roast,"  covei 
cruet,  cutting  a  slit  in  the  mi 
You  can  use  the  potato  cr 
and  good,  for  any  kind  of  mi 
over  with  beaten  white  of  eg 

Beef's  Heai 
Wash  the  heart  well,  and  < 
long.  Stew  them  for  ten  mil 
them.  Salt  the  water  slightl 
throw  it  away  as  it  rises  in  sc 
meat,  strain  the  liquor,  and  n 
with  a  sliced  onion,  a  great  s 
ley,  a  head  of  celery  choppe« 
with  a  large  lump  of  butter, 
tender,  when  add  a  tables^ 
thicken.    Boil  up  once,  and 


BEEF.  93 

To  CoBN  Beef. 

Bub  each  piece  of  beef  well  with  salt  mixed  with  one- 
tenth  part  of  saltpetre,  until  the  salt  lies  dry  upon  the 
surface.  Put  aside  in  a  cold  place  for  twenty-four  hours, 
and  repeat  the  process,  rubbing  in  the  mixture  very 
thoroughly.  Put  away  again  until  the  next  day,  by 
which  time  the  pickle  should  be  ready. 

5  gallons  of  water. 
1  gallon  of  salt. 
4  ounces  saltpetre, 
li  lb.  brown  sugar. 

Boil  this  brine  ten  minutes;  let  it  get  perfectly  cold ;  then 
pour  over  the  beef,  having  wiped  the  latter  entirely  dry. 
Examine  the  pickle  from  time  to  time  to  see  if  it  keeps 
well ;  if  not,  take  out  the  meat  without  delay,  wipe  it,  and 
rub  in  dry  salt,  covering  it  well  until  you  can  prepare 
new  and  stronger  brine. 

Boiled  Cobneb  Beef. 

If  your  piece  is  a  round,  skewer  it  well  into  shape,  and 
tie  it  up  with  stout  tape  or  twine  when  you  have  washed  it 
in  three  or  four  waters  and  removed  all  the  salt  from  the 
outside.  Put  into  a  pot,  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Al- 
low, in  boiling,  about  twenty  minutes  to  a  pound.  Turn 
the  meat  three  times  while  cooking. 

When  done,  drain  very  dry,  and  serve  with  drawn  but- 
ter in  a  sauce-boat.  Send  around  mashed  turnips  with 
the  meat.  They  should  be  boiled  in  a  separate  pot,  how- 
ever, or  they  will  impart  a  disagreeable  taste  to  the  beef. 

The  brisket  is  a  good  piece  for  a  family  dinner. 

Beef  Tongue. 

Soak  over  night  in  cold  water  when  you  have  washed 
\t  well.     Next  morning  put  into  a  pot  with  plenty  of  cold 


94  COMMON  SENSE. 

water,  and  boil  slowly  until  it  is  tender  throughout  This 
you  can  determine  by  testing  it  with  a  fork.  Leave  in 
the  liquor  until  quite  cold. 

Pare  off  the  thick  skin,  cut  in  round  slices,  and  dish 
for  tea,  garnishing  with  fresh  parsley. 

Tongue  sandwiches  are  generally  held  in  higher  esteem 
than  those  made  of  ham. 

Dried  Beep. 

The  roost  common  way  of  serving  dried  or  smoked 
beef  is  to  shave  it  into  thin  slices  or  chips,  raw ;  but  a 
more  savory  relish  may  be  made  of  it  with  little  trouble. 

Put  the  slices  of  uncooked  beef  into  a  frying-pan  with 
just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them ;  set  them  over 
the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  drain  off  all  the  water,  and  with 
a  knife  and  fork  cut  the  meat  into  small  bits.  Return  to 
the  pan,  which  should  be  hot,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter and  a  little  pepper.  Have  ready  some  well-beaten 
eggs,  allowing  four  to  a  half-pound  of  beef;  stir  them 
into  the  pan  with  the  minced  meat,  and  toss  and  stir  the 
mixture  for  about  two  minutes.  Send  to  table  in  a 
covered  dish. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

Roast  Mutton. 

The  parts  which  are  usually  roasted  are : — 
The  shoulder, 
The  saddle,  or  chine,  and 
The  loin  and  haunch  (a  leg  and  part  of  the  loin). 

The  leg  is  best  boiled,  unless  the  mutton  is  young  and 
very  tender.  To  roast — wash  the  meat  well,  and  dry  with 
a  clean  cloth.    Let  your  fire  be  clear  and  strong ;  put  the 


MTTTTOir  AKH  LAMB.  9ft 

meat  on  with  a  littie  water  in  the  drippiijg-pan.  If  you 
think  well  of  the  plan  (and  I  do),  let  there  be  a  cupful  of 
boiling  water  dashed  over  the  meat  when  it  is  first  put 
down  to  roast,  and  left  to  trickle  into  the  pan.  I  have  else- 
where explained  the  advantages  of  the  method.  Allow,  in 
roasting,  about  twelve  minutes  per  pound,  if  the  fire  is 
good.  Baste  often — at  first  with  salt  and  water,  afterward 
with  the  gravy.  If  it  is  in  danger  of  browning  too  fast, 
cover  with  a  large  sheet  of  white  paper.  Roast  lamb  in 
the  same  manner,  but  not  so  long.  Skim  the  gravy  well, 
and  thicken  very  slightly  with  browned  flour.  Serve  with 
currant  jelly. 

RoABT  Mutton  a  la  Veniaan, 

A  Christmas  saddle  of  mutton  is  very  fine  prepared  as 
follows :  Wash  it  well,  inside  and  out,  with  vinegar.  Do 
not  wipe  it,  but  hang  it  up  to  dry  in  a  cool  cellar.  When 
the  vinegar  has  dried  ofl*,  throw  a  clean  cloth  over  it,  to 
keep  out  the  dust.  On  the  next  day  but  one,  take  down 
the  meat  and  sponge  it  over  again  with  vinegar,  then  put 
it  l>ack  in  its  place  in  the  cellar.  Repeat  this  process 
three  times  a  week  for  a  fortnight,  keeping  the  meat  hung 
in  a  cold  place,  and  covered,  except  while  you  are  washing 
it.  When  you  are  ready  to  cook  it,  wipe  it  off  with  a  dry 
cloth,  but  do  not  wash  it.  Roast — basting  for  the  first 
hour  with  butter  and  water ;  afterward  with  the  gravy, 
and  keeping  the  meat  covered  with  a  large  tin  pan  for  two 
hours.  A  large  saddle  of  mutton  will  require  four  hours 
to  roast  When  it  is  done,  remove  to  a  dish,  and  cover 
to  keep  it  hot.  Skim  the  gravy,  and  add  half  a  teacupful 
of  walnut,  mushroom,  or  tomato  catsup,  a  glass  of  Ma- 
deira wine,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour.  Boil 
up  once,  and  send  to  table  in  a  sauce-boat  Always  send 
around  currant  or  some  other  tart  jelly  with  roast  mutton. 


96  COMMON  8BN8S. 

If  properly  cooked,  a  saddle  of  mutton,  prepared  in  ao* 
cordance  with  these  directions,  will  strongly  resemble 
venison  in  taste.  An  old  Virginia  gentleman  whom  I 
used  to  know,  always  hung  up  the  finest  saddle  his  planta- 
tion could  furnish  six  weeks  before  Christmas,  and  had  it 
sponged  off  with  vinegar  every  other  day.  until  the 
morning  of  the  important  25th ;  and  the  excellence  of  hia 
mutton  was  the  talk  of  the  neighborhood. 

The  covered  "Roaster"  manafactared  bj  Silybb  &  Co.,  66 
Warren  Strbet,  New  York,  will  relieve  the  housewife  of  mach 
of  the  lahor  and  care  of  roasting  meats.  If  the  directions  be 
followed,  the  meat  cannot  burn  and  will  need  little  basting. 

Boiled  Mutton. 

Wash  a  leg  of  mutton  clean,  and  wipe  dry.  Put 
into  a  pot  with  hot  water  (salted)  enough  to  cover  it, 
and  boil  until  you  ascertain,  by  probing  with  a  fork,  that 
it  is  tender  in  the  thickest  part  Skim  off  all  the  scum  as 
it  rises.  Allow  about  twelve  minutes  to  each  pound.  Take 
from  the  fire,  drain  perfectly  dry,  and  serve  with  melted 
butter,  with  capers,  or  nasturtium  seed ;  or,  if  you  have 
neither  of  these,  some  cucumber  or  gherkin-pickle  stirred 
into  it.  If  you  wish  to  use  the  broth  for  soup,  put  in 
very  little  salt  while  boiling ;  if  not,  salt  well,  and  boil 
the  meat  in  a  cloth. 

Mutton  Stew.  >J< 

Cut  up  from  three  to  four  pounds  of  mutton, — the  in- 
ferior portions  will  do  as  well  as  any  other, — crack  the 
bones,  and  remove  all  the  fat.  Put  on  the  meat — the 
pieces  not  more  than  an  inch  and  a  half  in  length — ^in  a 
pot  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  well,  and  set  it  where 
it  will  heat  gradually.  Add  nothing  else  until  it  has 
stewed  an  hour,  closely  covered ;  then  throw  in  half  a 
pound  of  salt  pork  cut  into  strips,  a  little  chopped  onion, 
and  some  pepper;  cover  and  stew  an  hour  longer,  or  until 
the  meat  is  very  tender.    Make  out  a  little  paste,  as  for 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB.  97 

the  crast  of  a  meat-pie ;  cut  into  squares,  and  drop  into 
the  stew.  Boil  ten  minutes,  and  season  further  by  the  ad- 
dition of  a  little  parsley  and  thyme.  Thicken  with  two 
spoonfuls  of  flour  stirred  into  a  cup  of  cold  milk.  Boil 
up  once,  and  serve  in  a  tureen  or  deep  covered  dish. 

If  green  com  is  in  season,  this  stew  is  greatly  improved 
by  adding,  an  hour  before  it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  the 
grains  of  half  a  dozen  ears,  cut  from  the  cob. 

Try  it  for  a  cheap  family  dinner,  and  you  will  repeat 
the  experiment  often.  Lamb  is  even  better  for  your  pur- 
pose than  mutton. 

Mutton  Chops. 

If  your  butcher  has  not  done  it, — and  the  chances  are 
that  he  has  not,  unless  you  stood  by  to  see  it  attended  to, 
— trim  off  the  superfluous  fat  and  skin,  so  as  to  give  the 
chops  a  certain  litheness  and  elegance  of  shape.  Dip  each 
in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  pounded  cracker,  and  fry  in  hot  lard 
or  dripping.  If  the  fat  is  unsalted,  sprinkle  the  chops 
with  salt  before  rolling  in  the  egg.    Serve  up  dry  and  hot 

Or. 

You  may  omit  the  egg  and  cracker,  and  broil  on  a  grid- 
iron over  a  bright  fire.  Put  a  little  salt  and  pepper  upon 
each  chop,  and  butter  them  before  they  go  to  table.  Cook 
lamb  chops  in  the  same  way. 

Mutton  Cutlets.    (Baked), 

Cut  them  from  the  neck,  and  trim  neatly.  Lay  aside 
the  bits  of  bone  and  meat  you  cut  ofl*,  to  make  gravy. 
Pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  the  cutlets,  and  let  them 
lie  in  it  for  fifteen  minutes,  keeping  them  just  warm  enough 
to  prevent  the  butter  from  hardening;  then  dip  each  in 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker- crumbs,  and  lay  them  in  your 
dripping-pan  with  a  very  little  water  at  the  bottom.  Bake 
quickly,  and  baste  often  with  butter  and  water.  Put  on 
6 


98  eovuoit  BBina. 

the  bones,  etc.,  in  enough  oold  water  to  oc 
and  season  with  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  and  at 
ful  of  tomato  catsup.  Strain  when  nil 
extracted  from  the  meat  and  bones ;  thick 
flour,  and  pour  over  the  cutlets  when  thej 
MtnroN  Ham, 
For  a  leg  of  mutton  weighing  12  lbs.,  ti 

1  ounce  of  black  pepper,  or  1  ounce 

J  lb.  brown  sugar, 

1  ounce  saltpetre, 

li  lb.  salt. 

Tbe  day  after  ttie  sheep  is  killed,  mix  ti 
and  saltpetre,  and  rub  well  into  the  meat 
minutes,  undl  the  outer  part  of  it  ia  the 
nated  with  tbe  seasoning.  Put  the  ham  it 
enware  vessel,  and  cover  it  with  the  salt 
thus  for  three  weeks,  turning  it  everj  di 
with  tbe  brine ;  adding  to  this,  after  the 
cupful  of  vinegar.  When  the  ham  is  n 
pickle,  wash  with  cold  water,  then  with  vi 
it  up  in  a  cool  cellar  for  a  week,  at  least, 

Soa^  an  hour  in  fair  water  before  boilii 

Or  if  you  choose  to  amoke  it  for  severs 
corned,  it  can  be  chipped  and  eaten  raw, 
son  or  dried  beef 

Most  of  the  receipts  above  given  will 
lamb  as  to  mutton.  There  are  several  exc 
^hich  you  will  do  well  to  note.  liamb 
boiled  except  in  stewa.  It  is  tasteless  an 
in  this  manner,  on  account  of  its  immatui 
other  hand,  a  lamb-pie,  prepared  like  oni 
ison,  is  excellent,  while  mutton-pies  have 
tallowy  taste,  that  spoils  them  for  delicati 


MTTTfOV  AtfD  %MiB.  99 

Boast  Iamb  should  be  eat^Q  with  loint  sauce  (if  you 
tojicY  it),  currant  jelly,  and  asparagus  or  green  peas.  Liet- 
tuce-salad  is  likewise  a  desirable  accompaniment 

MyTTQif  OB  Ij4^b  Rechauffe.^ 

Cut  some  slices  of  cold  underdone  mutton  or  lamb ;  put 

them  in  a  frying-pan  with  enough  gravy  or  broth  to  cover 

them.      Or,  if  you  have  neither  of  them,  make  a  gravy  of 

butter,  warm  water,  and  catsup.     Heat  to  boiling,  and  stir 

in  pepper  and  a  great  spoonful  of  currant  jelly.     Send  to 

table  in  a  chafing-dish,  with  the  gravy  poured  about  the 

meat. 

Or. 

You  can  put  a  lump  of  the  butter  in  the  bottom  of  the 
pan,  and  when  it  boils,  lay  in  the  slices  of  meat,  turning 
them  before  they  have  time  to  crisp.  As  soon  as  they  are 
thoroughly  heated  take  them  out,  lay  upon  a  hot  dish, 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  with  a  small 
spoonful  of  jelly  laid  upon  each. 


VEAL. 


Despite  the  prejudice,  secret  or  expressed,  which  prevails 
in  many  minds  against  veal,— one  which  the  wise  and  witty 
''Country  Parson"  has  as  surely  fostered  among  reading 
people,  as  Charles  Lamb  the  partiality  for  roast  pig, — 
the  excellent^  and  attractive  dishes  that  own  this  as  their 
base  are  almost  beyond  number.  For  soups  it  is  in- 
valuable, and  in  entrees  and  rechauffes  it  plays  a  distin- 
guished part.  From  his  head  to  his  feet,  the  animal  that 
Airpiflhee  as  with  this  important  element  of  sucoeas  in 
•what  should  h%  th«  prim«  ebj«ot  of  oookery,  to  wit,  to 


100  COMMOK  SXHBB. 

please  while  we  nourish,  has  proved  himself  so  useful  as 
an  ally  that  it  behooves  us  to  lift  the  stigma  from  the 
name  of  **  calf,"  provided  he  be  not  too  in&ntine.  In  that 
case  he  degenerates  into  an  insipid  mass  of  pulpj  muscl« 
and  gelatine,  and  deserves  the  bitterest  sneers  that  have 
been  flung  at  his  kind. 

Roast  Veal. 

LOIN. 

Veal  requires  a  longer  time  to  roast  than  mutton  or 
lamb.  It  is  fair  to  allow  at  lead  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to 
each  pound.  Heat  gradually,  baste  frequently — at  first 
with  salt  and  water,  afterward  with  gravy.  When  the 
meat  is  nearly  done,  dredge  lightly  with  flour,  and  baste 
once  with  melted  butter.  Skim  the  gravy ;  thicken  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  boil  up,  and  put  into  the  gravy- 
boat. 

Should  the  meat  brown  too  fast,  cover  with  white 
paper.  The  juices,  which  make  up  the  characteristic 
flavor  of  meat  are  oftener  dried  out  of  veal  than  any 
other  flesh  that  comes  to  our  tables. 

BREAST. 

Make  incisions  between  the  ribs  and  the  meat,  and  fill 
with  a  force-meat  made  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  bits  of  pork, 
or  ham  chopped  "  exceeding  small,"  salt,  pnepper,  thyme, 
sweet  marjoram,  and  beaten  egg.  Save  a  little  to  thicken 
the  gravy.  Roast  slowly,  basting  often,  and  the  verdict 
of  the  eaters  will  differ  from  theirs  who  pronounce  this 
the  coarsest  part  of  the  veal.  Dredge,  at  the  last,  with 
flour,  and  baste  well  once  with  butter,  as  with  the  loin. 

FILLET. 

Make  ready  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  chopped  thyme 
and  parsley;  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  rubbed 


VEAL.  101 

together  with  some  melted  batter  or  beef  suet ;  moisten 
with  milk  or  hot  water,  and  bind  with  a  beaten  egg. 

Take  out  the  bone  from  the  meat,  and  pin  securely  into 
a  round  with  skewers;  then  pass  a  stout  twine  several 
times  about  the  fillet,  or  a  band  of  muslin.  Fill  the 
cavity  from  which  the  bone  wa^^ken  with  this  stuffing, 
and  thrust  between  the  folds  of  the  meat,  besides  making 
incisions  with  a  thin,  sharp  knife  to  receive  it.  Once  in  a 
while  slip  in  a  strip  of  fiit  pork  or  ham.  Baste  at  first 
with  salt  and  water,  afterward  with  gravy.  At  the  last, 
dredge  with  flour  and  baste  with  butter. 

SHOULDER. 

Stuff  as  above,  making  horizontal  incisions  near  the 
bone  to  receive  the  dressing,  and  roast  in  like  manner. 

Veal  Cutlets. 

Dip  in  beaten  egg  when  you  have  sprinkled  a  little 
pepper  and  salt  over  them ;  then  roll  in  cracker-crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  dripping  or  lard.  If  you  use  butter  or 
dripping,  add  a  little  boiling  water  to  the  gravy  when  the 
meat  is  dished ;  thicken  with  browned  flour,  boil  up 
once,  sending  to  table  in  a  boat.         ^ 

Or, 

You  can  rub  the  cutlets  well  with  melted  butter,  pepper, 
and  broil  on  a  gridiron  like  beef-steak,  buttering  very  well 
after  dishing. 

Veal  Chops 

Are  more  juicy  and  less  apt  to  be  tough  and  solid  than  cut- 
lets. Trim  the  bone  as  with  mutton  chops,  and  fry,  dip- 
ping in  beaten  egg  and  cracker-crumbs.  Add  a  little 
parsley  and  a  minced  shallot  to  the  gravy. 


102  00KM017  8EN8E. 

Veal  Steak. 

This  should  be  thinner  than  beef-steak,  and  be  done 
throughout.  Few  persons  are  fond  of  rare  veal.  Broil 
upon  a  well-greased  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  and  turn 
frequently  while  the  steaks  are  cooking.  Put  into  a  sauce- 
pan four  or  five  young  onions  minced  fine,  a  great  tea- 
spoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  or  twice  the  quantity  of  stewed 
tomato,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  little 
thyme  or  parsley,  with  a  small  teacupful  of  hot  water. 
Let  them  stew  together  while  the  steaks  are  broiling, 
thickening,  before  you  turn  the  gravy  out,  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  bpowned  flour.  Add,  if  you  please,  a  half-glass  of 
wine.  Boil  up  once  hard,  and  when  the  steaks  are  dished, 
with  a  small  bit  of  butter  upon  each,  pour  the  mixture 
over  and  around  them. 

Spinach  is  as  natural  an  accompaniment  to  veal  as  are 
green  peas  to  lamb. 

Veal  Pies. 

Let  your  veal  be  juicy  and  not  too  fat.  Take  out  all 
the  bone,  and  put  with  the  fat  and  refiise  bits,  such  aa  skin 
or  gristle,  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  large  teacupful  of  cold 
water  to  make  gravy.  Instead  of  chopping  the  veal,  cut 
in  thin,  even  slices.  Line  a  pudding-dish  with  a  good 
paste  and  put  a  layer  of  ve^d  in  the  bottom;  then 
one  of  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced,  each  piece  buttered  and 
peppered  before  it  is  laid  upon  the  veal ;  cover  these  with 
sliced  ham  or  thin  strips  of  salt  pork.  Squeeze  a  few  drops 
uf  lemon-juice  upon  the  ham.  Then  another  layer  of  veal, 
and  so  on  until  you  are  ready  for  the  gravy.  This  should 
have  been  stewing  for  half  an  hour  or  so,  with  the  addition 
of  pepper  and  a  bunch  of  aromatic  herbs.  Strain  through 
a  thin  cloth  and  pour  over  the  pie.  Cover  with  crust  and 
bake  two  hours. 


103 

Or, 

Butter  a  large  bowl  very  thickly,  and  line  with  sliced  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Then  put  in,  in  perpendicular  layers,  a  lining 
of  veal  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  seasoned  with  pepper.  Next, 
one  of  sliced  ham,  each  slice  peppered  and  sprinkled  with 
lemon-juice,  more  veal  and  more  ham,  until  the  dish  is 
packed  to  the  brim.  Cover  with  a  thick  paste  made  of 
flour  and  hot  water,  just  stiff  enough  to  handle  with  ease. 
Press  this  closely  to  the  outside  of  the  bowl,  which  should 
not  be  at  all  greasy.  Let  it  overlap  the  rim  about  half  an 
inch.  Some  cooks  substitute  a  cloth  well  floured,  but  it 
does  not  keep  in  the  essence  of  the  meats  as  well  as  the 
paste.  Bet  the  bowl  in  a  pot  of  hot  water,  not  so  deep 
that  it  will  bubble  over  the  top.  It  is  better  that  it  should 
not  touch  the  paste  rim.  Boil  steadily — not  hard — ^for  at 
least  three  hours.  Remove  the  paste  the  next  day,  when 
bowl  and  contents  are  perfectly  cold,  and  turn  out  the  pie 
into  a  large  plate  or  flat  dish.  Cut  in  circular  slices — thin 
as  a  wafer — beginning  at  the  top,  keeping  your  carver 
horizontal,  and  you  have  a  delicious  relish  for  the  supper- 
table,  or  side-dish  for  dinner.  Set  in  a  cool  place,  and  in 
winter  it  will  keep  several  days. 

This  is  the  "  weal  and  hammer  pi^  "  endorsed  by  Mr. 
Wegg  as  a  good  thing  "  for  mellering  the  organ,"  and  is  a 
great  favorite  in  England.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  butter  the 
eggs  afl  well  as  the  dish,  as  much  of  the  success  of  the  pie 
depends  upon  the  manner  in  which  it  is  turned  out.  Also, 
upon  the  close  packing  of  the  sliced  meat  The  salt  ham 
prevents  the  need  of  other  salt. 

Stewed  Fillet  op  Veal. 

Stuff,  and  bind  with  twine  as  for  roasting.  Then  cover 
the  top  and  sides  with  sliced  ham  which  has  been  already 
boiled,  securing  with  skewers,  or  twine  crossing  the  meat  in 


104  COXMOK  8BN8B. 

all  directions.  Laj  in  a  pot,  put  in  two  large  cups  of 
boiling  water,  cover  immediately  and  closely,  and  stew 
gently — ^never  letting  it  cease  to  boil,  yet  never  boiling 
hard,  for  four  or  five  hours.  A  large  fillet  will  require 
nearly  five  hours.  Remove  the  cover  as  seldom  as  possi- 
ble, and  only  to  ascertain  whether  the  water  has  boiled 
away.  If  it  is  too  low,  replenish  from  the  boiling  kettle. 
Take  ofi*  the  strings  when  the  meat  is  done ;  arrange  the 
ham  about  the  fillet  in  the  dish,  and  serve  a  bit  with  each 
slice  of  veal.  Strain  the  gravy,  thicken  with  flour,  boil 
up  once,  and  send  in  a  boat 
Serve  with  stewed  tomatoes  and  spinach. 

Stewed  Knuckle  of  Veal. 

Put  the  meat  into  a  pot  with  two  quarts  of  boiling 

water,  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  or  ham  cut  into  strips,  a 

carrot,  two  onions,  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  one  of  summer 

savory — all  cut  fine — two  dozen  whole  pepper-corns,  and 

stew,  closely  covered,  for  three  hours.    When  done,  take 

the  meat  from  the  pot  and  lay  in  the  dish.     Strain  the 

gravy,  thicken  with  rice-flour,  boil  up  once,  and  pour  over 

the  meat 

Veal  Scallop.  »J< 

Chop  some  cold  roast  or  stowed  veal  very  fine,  put  a  layer 
in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Kext  have  a  layer  of  finely  powdered 
crackers.  Strew  some  bits  of  butter  upon  it  and  wet  with 
a  little  milk;  then  more  veal  seasoned  as  before,  and 
another  round  of  cracker-crumbs,  with  butter  and  milk. 
When  the  dish  is  full,  wet  well  with  gravy  or  broth,  diluted 
with  warm  water.  Spread  over  all  a  thick  layer  of 
cracker  seasoned  with  salt,  wet  into  a  paste  with  milk  and 
bound  with  a  beaten  egg  or  two,  if  the  dbh  be  large. 
Stick  butter-bits  thickly  over  it ;  invert  a  tin  pan  so  as  to 


105 

cover  all  and  keep  in  the  steam,  and  bake — if  small,  half 
an  hour  ;  three-quarters  will  suffice  for  a  large  dish.  Re- 
move the  cover  ten  minutes  before  it  is  served,  and  brown. 

This  simple  and  economical  dish  should  be  an  acquaint- 
ance with  all  who  are  fond  of  veal  in  any  shape.  Children 
generally  like  it  exceedingly,  and  I  have  heard  more  than 
one  gentleman  of  excellent  judgment  in  culinary  a&irs 
declare  that  the  best  thing  he  knew  about  roast  veal  was 
that  it  was  the  harbinger  of  scallop  on  the  second  day. 

Try  it,  and  do  not  get  it  too  dry. 


Veal  Pates. 

Mince  the  veal  as  above,  and  roll  three  or  four  crackers 
to  powder.  Also,  chop  up  some  cold  ham  and  mix  with 
the  veal  in  the  proportion  of  one-third  ham  and  two- 
thirds  veal.  Then  add  the  cracker,  and  wet  well  with 
gravy  and  a  little  milk.  If  you  have  no  gravy,  stir  into 
a  cup  of  hot  milk  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a 
beaten  egg.  Season  well  to  your  taste,  and  bake  in  pat^ 
pans  lined  with  puff-paste.  If  eaten  hot,  send  to  table 
in  the  tins.  If  cold,  slip  the  pdtds  out  and  pile  upon 
a  plate,  with  sprigs  of  parsley  between.  A  little  oyster 
liquor  is  a  marked  improvement  to  the  gravy. 

■ 

Stewed  CalfVHead. 

Wash  the  head  in  several  waters,  and  taking  out  the 

brains,  set  them  by  in  a  cool  place.     Tie  the  head  in  a 

floured  cloth  and  boil  it  two  hours  in  hot  water  slightly 

salted.    Wash  the  brains  carefully,  picking  out  all  the  bits 

of  skin  and  membrane,  cleansing  them  over  and  over  until 

they  are  perfectly  white.    Then  stew  in  just  enough  water 

to  cover  them.    Take  them  out,  mash  smooth  with  the 

back  of  a  wooden  spoon,  and  add  gradually,  that  it  may 

not  lump,  a  small  teacupful  of  the  water  in  which  the 

6* 


106  COHKOIT  ssirsB. 

head  Ls  boiled.  Season  with  chopped  parsi 
sage,  pepper,  salt,  and  powdered  clovee,  with 
fill  of  butter.  Set  it  over  the  fire  to  simmer 
until  J'ou  are  ready.  When  the  head  is  ten( 
and  drain  very  dry.  Score  the  top,  aud  ml 
with  melted  butter;  dredge  with  flour  and  s 
to  brown.  Or,  you  can  use  beaten  egg  and  ci 
tn  place  of  the  butter  and  flour. 

When  you  serve  the  head,  pour  the  grav; 

Neyer  skin  a  calf's-head.  Scald  as  you  w 
pig.  A  little  lye  in  the  water  will  remove 
will  also  pounded  rosin,  applied  before  it  i 
water. 

C.u.fVHead  (Scalloped.)  >}• 

Clean  the  head,  remove  the  brains,  and 
place.  Boil  the  head  until  the  meat  slips  e 
bones.  Take  it  ont  and  chop  fine,  season  wi 
per,  and  salt;  then  put  in  layers  into  a  butt 
dish  with  bits  of  butter  between  each  layer, 
with  the  liquor  in  which  the  head  was  boilei 
brains  very  thoroughly,  removing  all  the  me 
them  into  a  smooth  paste,  season  with  pe 
and  stir  in  with  them  two  eggs  beatei 
Spread  this  evenly  over  the  scallop,  dredgi 
a  little  Sour,  and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown, 
will  be  long  enough. 

Swebt-Beeadb  (Fried.)  •}• 
Wash  very  carefully,  and  dry  with  a  linei 
with  narrow  strips  of  fat  salt  pork,  set  cl( 
Use  for  tliis  purpose  a  larding-needle.  L 
breads  in  a  clean,  hot  frying-pan,  which  '. 
buttered  or  greased,  and  cook  to  a  fine  b 
frequently  until  the  pork  is  crisp. 


ysAJi. 


16» 


Sweet  Breads  (^Broiled,)  >{< 

Parboil,  rub  them  well  with  batter,  and  broil  ooi  a  clean 
gridiron.  Turn  frequently,  and  now  and  then  roll  over  in 
a  plate  containing  some  hot  melted  butter.  This  will  pre- 
vent them  from  getting  too  dry  and  hard. 

Sweet-Breads  (Stewed.)  ^ 

When  you  have  washed  them,  and  removed  all  bits  of 
skin  and  fatty  matter,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  heat  to 
a  boil.  Pour  off  the  hot  water,  and  cover  with  cold  until 
the  sweet-breads  are  firm.  If  you  desire  to  have  them 
very  rich,  lard  as  for  frying  before  you  put  in  the  second 
water.  They  are  more  delicate,  however,  if  the  pork  be 
left  out.  Stew  in  a  very  little  water  the  second  time. 
When  they  are  tender,  add  for  each  sweet-bread  a  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
with  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  little  cream.  Let  them  sim- 
mer in  this  gravy  for  five  minutes,  then  take  them  up. 
Send  to  table  in  a  covered  dish,  with  the  gravy  poured 
over  them. 

If  you  lard  the  sweet-breads,  substitute  for  the  cream  in 
the  gravy  a  glass  of  good  wine.  In  this  case,  take  the 
sweet-breads  out  before  it  is  put  into  the  gravy.  Boil  up 
once  and  pour  over  them. 

Sweet-Breads  {Roasted.) 

Parboil  and  throw  into  cold  water,  where  let  them 
stand  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  change  to  more  cold  water 
for  five  minutes  longer.  Wipe  perfectly  dry.  Lay  them 
in  your  dripping-pan,  and  roast,  basting  with  butter  and 
water  until  they  begin  to  brown.  Then  withdraw  them 
for  an  instant,  roll  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker-crumbs, 
and  return  to  the  fire  for  ten  minutes  longer,  basting 
meanwhile  twice  with  melted  butter.     Lay  in  a  chafing- 


108  OOKHOK  SENSE. 

dish  while  jou  add  to  the  dripping  half  a  cup  of  hot  water, 
some  chopped  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  browned  flour,  and 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Pour  over  the  sweet-breads  be- 
fore sending  to  table. 

Jellied  Veal. 

Wash  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  cut  it  into  three  pieces. 
Boil  it  slowly  until  the  meat  will  slip  easily  from  the 
bones ;  take  out  of  the  liquor ;  remove  all  the  bones,  and 
chop  the  meat  fine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  two  shallots 
chopped  as  fine  as  possible,  mace  and  thyme,  or,  if  you 
like,  sage.  Put  back  into  the  liquor,  and  boil  until  it  is 
almost  dry  and  can  be  stirred  with  difficulty.  Turn  into 
a  mould  until  next  day.  Set  on  the  table  cold,  garnish 
with  parsley,  and  cut  in  slices.  The  juice  of  a  lemon» 
stirred  in  just  before  it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  is  an  im- 
provement. 

Calp'b-Head  in  a  Mould. 

Boil  a  calf  s-head  until  tender,  the  day  before  you  wish 
to  use  it.  When  perfectly  cold,  chop — ^not  too  small — 
and  season  to  taste  with  pepper^  salt,  mace,  and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Prepare  half  as  much  cold  ham,  fat  and 
lean — also  minced — as  you  have  of  the  chopped  calFs- 
head.  Butter  a  mould  well,  and  lay  in  the  bottom  a 
layer  of  the  calf  s-head,  then  one  of  ham,  and  so  on 
until  the  shape  is  full,  pressing  each  layer  hard,  when  you 
have  moistened  it  with  veal  gravy  or  the  liquor  in  which 
the  head  was  boiled.  Pour  more  gravy  over  the  top,  and 
when  it  has  soaked  in  well,  cover  with  a  paste  made  of 
flour  and  water.  Bake  one  hour.  Remove  the  paste 
when  it  is  quite  cold;  and  turn  out  carefully.  Gut  per- 
pendicularly. 

This  is  quite  as  good  a  relish  when  made  of  cold  roast 
or  stewed  veal  and  ham.  It  will  keep  several  days  in 
cool  weather. 


VEAL.  109 

Veal  Olives  with  Oysters. 

Cut  large,  smooth  slices  from  a  fillet  of  veal,  or  veal 
chops  will  do  quite  as  well.  Trim  them  into  a  uniform 
shape  and  size,  and  spread  each  neatly  with  force-meat 
made  of  bread-crumbs  and  a  little  chopped  pork,  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt  Over  this  spread  some  chopped 
oysters,  about  three  to  a  good-sized  slice  of  veaL  Koll 
them  up  carefully  and  closely,  and  pin  each  with  two 
small  tin  or  wooden  skewers.  Lay  them  in  a  dripping- 
pan;  dash  a  teacupful  of  boiling  water  over  them,  and 
roast,  basting  at  least  twice  with  melted  butter.  When 
they  are  brown,  remove  to  a  chafing-dish,  and  cover, 
while  you  add  a  little  oyster-liquor  to  the  gravy  left  in 
the  dripping-pan.  Let  this  simmer  for  three  or  four 
minutes;  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour, 
and  boil  up  at  once.  Withdraw  the  skewers  cautiously, 
so  as  not  to  break  the  olives ;  pour  the  gravy  over  and 
around  them,  and  serve.  If  you  have  no  skewers,  bind 
the  olives  with  pack-thread,  cutting  it,  of  course,  before 
sending  to  table. 

Serve  with  cranberry  jelly. 

Minced  Veal. 

Take  the  remains  of  a  cold  roast  of  veal  fillet,  shoulder, 
or  breast,  and  cut  all  the  meat  from  the  bones.  Put  the 
latter,  with  the  outside  slices  and  the  gristly  pieces,  into  a 
saucepan,  with  a  cup  of  cold  water,  some  sweet  herbs, 
pepper,  and  salt.  If  you  have  a  bit  of  bacon  convenient, 
or  a  ham-bone,  add  this  and  omit  the  salt  Stew  all 
together  for  an  hour,  then  strain,  thicken  with  flour,  re- 
turn to  the  fire,  and  boil  five  minutes  longer,  stirring  in  a 
tablespoonfol  of  butter. 

Meanwhile,  mince  the  cold  veal,  and  when  the  gravy  i^ 


110  OOKMON  flENBE. 

ready  put  this  in  a  little  at  a  time.  Let  it  almosl  boil, 
when  add  two  tabiespoonfuls  of  cream,  or  three  of  milk, 
stirring  all  the  while.  Lastly,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  and  a  moment  later  half  a  glass  of  Sherry  or  Ma- 
deira wine. 

The  mince- meat  should  bo  dry  enough  to  heap  into  a 
shape  in  a  flat  dish  or  chafing-dish.  Lay  triangles  of  but- 
tered toast  about  the  base  of  the  mound,  and  on  the  top  a 
poached  egg. 

The  remains  of  cold  roast  beef  treated  in  this  manner, 
substituting  for  the  toast  balls  of  mashed  potato,  will 
make  a  neat  and  palatable  dish. 

Send  around  spinach  or  stewed  tomatoes  with  minced 
veal ;  scraped  horseradish  steeped  in  vinegar  with  the  beef. 

Veal  Cutlets  a  la  Maintenon. 

The  cutlets  should  be  nearly  three-quarters  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  trim  in  shape.  Dip  each  in  beaten  egg,  then 
into  pounded  cracker  which  has  been  seasoned  with  pow- 
dered sweet  herbs,  pepper,  and  salt  Wrap  each  cutlet  in 
a  half-sheet  of  note  or  letter  paper,  well  buttered ;  lay  them 
upon  a  buttered  gridiron  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  turn- 
ing often  and  dexterously.  You  can  secure  the  papers  by 
fringing  the  ends,  and  twisting  these  after  the  cutlets  are 
put  in.  This  is  neater  than  to  pin  them  together.  In  trying 
this  dish  for  the  first  time,  have  ready  a  sufiicient  numbei 
of  duplicate  papers  in  a  clean,  hot  dish.  If  your  enve* 
lopes  are  much  soiled  or  darkened  while  the  cutlets  are 
broiling,  transfer  quickly  when  done  to  the  clean  warm 
onc3,  twist  the  ends,  and  serve.  Cutlets  prepared  in  this 
manner  arc  sent  to  table  in  their  cloaks,  ranged  symmet- 
rically upon  a  hot  chafing-dish. 

The  expedient  of  the  clean  papers  is  a  "  trick  of  the 
trade,"  amateur  housewives  will  observe  with  satisfaction. 


Epicures  profess  to  enjoy  veal  cooked  in  covers  far  more 
than  when  the  flavor  and  juices  escape  in  broiling  with- 
out them.  Empty  every  drop  of  gravy  from  the  soiled 
papers  into  the  clean  over  the  cutlets. 

Croquettes  of  Calf's  Brains. 

Wash  the  brains  very  thoroughly  until  they  are  free 
from  membranous  matter  and  perfectly  white.  Beat  them 
smooth ;  season  with  a  pinch  of  powdered  sage,  pepper, 
and  salt  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  fine  bread-crumbs 
moistened  with  milk,  and  a  beaten  egg.  Boll  into  balls 
with  floured  hands,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  cracker- 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  butter  or  veal-drippings. 

These  make  a  pleasant  accompaniment  to  boiled 
spinach.  Heap  the  vegetable  in  the  centre  of  the  dish, 
arrange  the  balls  about  it,  and  give  one  to  each  person 
who  wishes  spinach. 

Calf's  Liver  (Roasted.) 

Soak  the  liver  in  salt  and  water  an  hour  to  draw  out  the 
blood.  Wipe  perfectly  dry,  and  stuff*  with  a  force-meat 
made  of  bread-crumbs,  two  slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  chopped 
small,  a  shallot,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg;  sweet  marjoram 
and  thyme,  and  if  you  choose,  a  little  sage.  Moisten  this 
with  butter  melted  in  a  very  little  hot  water,  and  two  raw 
eggs,  well  beaten.  In  order  to  get  this  into  the  liver,  make 
an  incision  with  a  narrow  sharp  knife,  and  without  en- 
larging the  aperture  where  the  blade  entered,  move  the 
point  dexterously  to  and  fro,  to  enlarge  the  cavity  inside. 
Stuff*  this  full  of  the  force-meat,  sew  or  skewer  up  the  outer 
orifice ;  lard  with  strips  of  salt  pork,  and  roast  for  an  hour, 
basting  twice  with  butter  and  water,  afterward  with  the 
gravy  in  the  dripping-pan.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the  liver 
when  done. 


112 


OOMMOK  BEHBB. 


Roasted  liver  is  very  good  oold,  cat  into  slices  like 
tongue. 

Calf's  Livbr  (Fried). 

Slice  the  liver  smoothly,  and  lay  in  salt  and  water  to 
draw  out  the  blood.  Lard  each  slice,  when  you  have  wiped 
it  dry,  with  slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  drawn  through  at  regu- 
lar distances,  and  projecting  slightly  on  each  side.  Lay 
in  a  clean  frying-pan  and  fry  brown.  When  done,  take 
out  the  slices,  arrange  them  neatly  on  a  hot  dish,  and  set 
aside  to  keep  warm.  Add  to  the  gravy  in  the  frying-pan 
a  chopped  onion,  a  half-cup  of  hot  water,  pepper,  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  and  thicken  with  brown  flour.  Boil  up  well, 
run  through  a  cullender  to  remove  the  onion  and  the  bits 
of  crisped  pork  that  may  have  been  broken  off  in  cooking, 
pour  over  the  liver,  and  serve  hot 

Pigs'  livers  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

Calf's  Liveb  (Stewed). 

Slice  the  liver  and  lay  in  salt  and.  water  an  hour. 
Then  cut  into  dice  and  put  over  the  fire,  with  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  it  well.  Cover  and  stew  steadily  for  an 
hour,  when  add  salt,  pepper,  a  little  mace,  sweet  marjoram, 
parsley,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Stew 
again  steadily,  not  fast,  for  half  an  hour  longer,  when  put 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  of  browned  flour — wet 
with  ^cold  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice  and  one  of 
currant  jelly.  Boil  five  minutes  longer,  and  dish.  A 
little  wine  is  an  improvement 

Or, 

Put  in  with  the  liver-dice  some  of  salt  pork — say  a  hand- 
ful— and  when  you  season,  a  chopped  onion,  and  omit  the 
jelly  at  the  last,  substituting  some  tomato  catsup. 


.r=z ^SSUM 


VEAL.  113 

Imitation  PatSs  de  Foie  Gbas.  >i* 
Boil  a  calf's  liver  until  very  tender  in  water  that  has 
been  slightly  salted,  and  in  another  vessel  a  nice  calf's 
tongue.  It  is  best  to  do  this  the  day  before  you  make 
your  piUe,  as  they  should  be  not  only  cold,  but  firm  when 
used.  Cut  the  liver  into  bits,  and  rub  these  gradually  to 
a  smooth  paste  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  moistening,  ajs 
you  go  on,  with  melted  butter.  Work  into  this  paste, 
which  should  be  quite  soft,  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  cayenne 
pepper,  or  twice  the  quantity  of  white  or  black,  half  a 
grated  nutmeg,  a  little  cloves,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  salt  to  taste,  a  full  teaspoonful  of  made  mus- 
tard, and  a  tablespoonfiil  of  boiling  water,  in  which  a 
minced  onion  has  been  steeped  until  the  flavor  is  extracted. 
Work  all  together  thoroughly,  and  pack  in  jelly-jars  with 
air-tight  covers,  or,  if  you  have  them,  in  jjd^e-jars.  They 
give  a  foreign  air  to  the  compound,  and  aid  imagination 
in  deceiving  the  palate.  Butter  the  inside  of  the  jars  well, 
and  pack  the  pate  very  hard,  inserting  here  and  there 
square  and  triangular  bits  of  the  tongue,  which  should  be 
pared  and  cut  up  for  this  purpose.  These  simulate  the 
truffles  imbedded  in  the  genuine  pates  from  Strasbourg. 
When  the  jar  is  packed,  and  smooth  as  marble  on  the 
surface,  cover  with  melted  butter.  Let  this  harden,  put 
on  the  lid,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  In  winter  it  will 
keep  ibr  weeks,  and  is  very  nice  for  luncheon  or  tea. 
Make  into  sandwiches,  or  set  on  in  the  jars,  if  they  are 
neat  and  ornamental. 

The  resemblance  in  taste  to  the  real  pate  defoie  gras  is 
remarkable,  and  the  domestic  article  is  popular  with  the 
lovers  of  that  delicacy.  Pigs'  livers  make  a  very  fair 
pati'  If  you  can  procure  the  livers  of  several  fowls  and 
treat  as  above,  substituting  bits  of  the  inside  of  the  gizzard 
for  truffles,  you  will  find  the  result  even  more  satisfactory. 


COMMOS  tEirSE. 

VsAL  MABBLE. 
1  a  beef-tongue  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  uaed,  and  a 
umber  of  pounda  of  lean  veal.  Grind  fint  one, 
the  other,  in  a  sausage-cutter,  keeping  them  in 
te  vessels  until  you  are  ready  to  pack.  If  you  have 
ichine  for  this  purpoee,  chop  very  fine.  Season  the 
!  with  pepper,  powdered  sweet  herbs,  &  teaspoonfU 
le  mustard,  a  little  nutm^,  and  cloves— just  a  pinch 
h  ;  the  veal  in  like  manner,  with  the  addition  of 
Pack  in  alternate  spoonfuk,  as  trr^ularly  as  posei- 
cnps,  bowls,  or  jars,  which  have  been  well  buttered, 
very  hard  as  you  go  on,  smooth  the  top,  and  cover 
lelted  butter.  When  this  cools,  close  the  cans,  and 
n  a  cool,  dry  place.  Turn  out  whole,  or  cut  in  slioee 
.  It  is  a  pretty  and  savory  relish,  garnished  with 
y  or  the  blanched  tops  of  celeiy. 
I  can  use  ground  ham  instead  of  tongue.  It  is 
'  so  good,  but  is  more  economical. 


PORK, 
the  South,  where,  in  spite  of  the  warm  climate,  the 
nption  of  pork  is  double  that  of  the  North,  the  lull- 
hog  is  seldom  represented  by  any  of  his  parts  at 
ble,  fresh  or  pickled,  unless  it  be  during  killing- 
rhen  fresh  spare-ribs,  chine,  and  steak,  with  other 
cut  bits,  are  welcome  upon  the  choicest  bills  of  &re. 
»t  of  the  animal — ham,  shoulders,  and  middlings  — 
ligned  to  the  packing  barrel,  and  ultimately  to  the 
-house.  But,  in  cool  weather,  "ahoat" — i.  «.,  pig 
six  months  of  age-is  abundantly  displayed  in  market, 
i^ly  esteemed  by  all  clasaes.    The  meat  k  fine  and 


115 

sweet,  and,  unless  too  &t,  nearlj  aa  delicate  as  that  of 
cfaicken — a  very  different-  looking  and  tasting  dish  from 
the  gross  oleaginous  joints  and  "  chunks  "  offered  for  sale 
in  many  other  regions  as  '*  nice  young  pork."  Those  of 
my  readers  who  can  command  "sfaoat "  are  to  be  heartily 
congratulated.  Those  whose  butchers  dispense  only  por- 
tions of  the  mature  porker  will  do  well,  in  my  opinion,  if 
they  rarely  admit  him  to  their  families  before  he  has  been 
salted,  and  been  thereby  purged  of  many  unwhole- 
some properties.  Few  stomachs,  save  those  of  out-door 
laborers,  can  digest  the  fresh  meat  of  a  two  or  three,  or 
even  one  year  old  hog.  This  is  the  truthful,  but,  to  unao- 
customed  ears,  offensive  name  for  him  at  the  South  and 
West,  where  his  qualities  and  habits  are  best  known. 

The  parts  of  a  properly  dissected  hog  are  the  hams, 
shoulders,  griskin  or  chine,  the  loin,  middlings,  spare-ribs, 
head,  feet,  liver,  and  haslet.  The  choice  portions  are  hams, 
shoulders,  and,  for  roasting,  the  loin.  All  hogs  should  be 
kept  up  and  well  fed  for  three  weeks,  at  least,  before  they 
are  killed ;  their  styes  be  frequently  cleaned,  and  furnished 
with  abundance  of  water,  renewed  every  day.  Sir  Grunter 
would  be  a  more  cleanly  creature  if  he  were  allowed  more 
extensive  water  privileges.  If  it  were  possible — and  in 
the  country  this  may  sometimes  be  done — to  build  his  pen 
on  the  bank  of  a  running  stream,  he  would  speedily  redeem 
his  character  from  the  stain  cast  upon  it  by  the  popular 
verdict,  and  the  superior  quality  of  the  meat  repay  the 
thoughtful  kindness  of  his  owner.  It  is  a  disgrace  to 
humanity,  hardly  second  to  the  barbarities  of  swill-milk 
manufactories,  this  compulsory  filth  of  any  domestic  ani- 
mal* Those  who,  like  myself,  have  been  loathing  witnesses 
of  the  pig-pens  upon  the  premises  of  well-to-do  farmers — 
the  receptacles  of  the  vilest  slops  and  offal,  never  cleaned 
except  during  the  yearly  removal  of  manure  from  bam- 


116  OOMMOH  SENSE. 

yard  to  field— cannot  marvel  at  the  growing  prejudioe 
against  pork  in  all  its  varieties  that  pervades  our  best 
classes.  We  feed  the  hog  with  the  oficourings  (this  is 
literal)  of  house,  garden,  and  table ;  bed  him  in  mire,  and 
swell  him  with  acetous  fermentation,  not  to  say  active  de- 
composition, and  then  abuse  him  for  being  what  we  have 
made  him.  I  am  persuaded — and  wiser  people  than  I  de- 
clare— that  hog-scrofula  and  cholera,  and  the  rest  of  the 
train  of  fleshly  ills  that  are  the  terror  of  pork-raisers,  have, 
one  and  all,  their  root  in  this  unseemly  inhumanity. 
Eschew  fresh  pork  we  may,  but  we  cannot  dispense  with 
hams,  shoulders,  and,  most  valuable  of  all  to  the  cook,  lard 
and  pickled  pork.  Real  sausage,  porcine  and  home-made, 
is  still  sweet  and  pleasant  to  the  unpampered  palate ;  and 
of  roast  pig,  the  gentlest  and  most  genial  of  English  essay- 
ists did  not  disdain  to  become  the  eulogist.  In  memory  of 
his  usefulness,  in  belief  of  the  healthfulness  which  should 
be  his  birthright,  and  the  safeguard  of  his  consumers,  let 
us  treat  Bristle  well — I  do  not  say  philosophically,  but 
sensibly  and  kindly. 

A  pig  should  not  be  allowed  to  eat  anything  for  twenty- 
four  hours  before  he  is  killed.  After  he  is  butchered, 
great  care  should  be  exercised  to  keep  the  pork  from  taint- 
ing ;  it  spoils  more  readily,  when  fresh,  than  any  other 
meat.  Cook  all  kinds  of  pork  thoroughly.  When  under- 
done it  b  not  only  unpalatable,  but  exceedingly  unwhole- 
some. 

Roast  Leg  op  Pork. 

One  weighing  about  seven  pounds  is  enough,  even  for  a 
large  family.  If  the  pig  be  young,  the  leg  will  be  even 
smaller.  Score  the  skin  in  squares,  or  parallel  lines  run- 
ning from  side  to  side,  for  the  convenience  of  the  carver. 
Put  it  down  to  roast  with  a  very  little  water  in  the  pan  be- 


POBK.  117 

low.  -  Heat  gradually  until  the  fat  begins  to  ooze  from  the 
meat,  when  quicken  the  fire  to  a  red,  Rteady  glow.  Baste 
only  with  its  own  gravy,  and  do  this  o^n,  that  the  skin 
may  not  be  hard  or  tough.  When  done  take  it  up,  skim 
the  gravy  thoroughly,  put  in  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water, 
thicken  with  brown  flour,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  and  serve  in  a  boat 

Or, 

If  the  joint  be  that  of  a  full-grown  hog,  rub  into  the  top, 
after  scoring  it  deeply,  a  force-meat  of  bread-crumbs 
seasoned  with  sage  and  chopped  onion,  wet  with  the  juice 
of  a  lemon  or  a  very  little  vinegar ;  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Rub  this  in  hard  until  the  cracks  are  filled.  With 
a  sharp  knife  make  incisions  close  to  the  knuckle-bone,  and 
stuff  with  the  force  meat,  tying  a  string  tightly  about  it 
afterward,  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  seasoning.  Rub 
over  once  with  butter,  when  the  meat  is  warm  throughout; 
then  baste  with  the  fat.  Skim  all  the  fat  from  the  drip- 
pings that  can  be  removed  before  making  the  gravy. 

Send  around  tomato  or  apple  sauce,  and  pickles,  with 
roast  pork* 

Loin  op  Pork. 

Cook  as  you  would  a  leg,  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  a 
pound  in  roasting.  This  is  a  good  rule  for  fresh  pork,  the 
flesh  being  coarser  and  of  closer  grain  than  are  more 
delicate  meats. 

A  shoulder  is  roasted  in  the  same  way. 

Roast  Spare-Rib. 

m 

When  first  put  down  to  the  fire,  cover  with  a  greased 
paper  until  it  is  half-done.  Remove  it  then,  and  dredge 
with  flour.  A  few  minutes  later,  baste  once  with  butter, 
and  afterward,  every  little  while,  with  its  own  gravy. 


118  00UMO1 

ThU  la  neoeesary,  the  Bpar 
Just  before  you  talce  it  up, 
with  fine  bread-crumbs  ee 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  Biui 
iovisibie  bila.  Let  it  cook 
more  with  butter.  Skim  th 
hot  water,  thicken  with  broi 
of  a  lenioQ,  straiD,  and  pour 
Send  tomato  catsup  arouo 
a  liberal  spoonful  in  the  gra 

ROABT 

A  chine  is  treated  precis 
that  the  strip  of  akin  runni. 
closely.  If  you  wish,  you 
crust,  the  odiou  and  sage.  1 
slices  from  the  ribs.  Chine 
the  ribs  is  delicious  when 
eaudwicfaes,  or  laid  upon  bul 
( 

You  can  wash  the  chine 
with  cracker-crumbs,  season 
roast,  basting  with  butter  an 
ia  heated  through,  afterward 
a  palatable  supper-dish  when 
pickles  cut  in  round  slices. 

ROAB 

A  month-old  pig,  if  it  be 
for  this  purpbse.  It  is  haj 
housekeeper  will  ever  be  ci 
work  upon  the  bodies  of  fuH-j 
a  task  that  requires  the  usi 
well  that  she  should  knon 


PORK.  119 

baby  pig,  which  is  not    larger    than    a   Thanksgiving 
turkey. 

As  soon  as  it  is  really  cold,  make  ready  a  large  boiler  of 
scalding  water.  Liay  the  pig  in  cold  water  for  fifteen 
minutes;  then,  holding  it  by  the  hind-leg,  plunge  it  into 
the  boiling  water,  and  shake  it  about  violently  until  you 
can  pull  the  hair  off  by  the  handful.  Take  it  out,  wipe  it 
dry,  and  with  a  crash  cloth  or  whisk  broom  rub  the  hair 
off,  brushing  from  the  tail  to  the  head,  until  the  skin  is 
perfectly  clean.  Cut  it  open,  take  out  the  entrails,  and 
wash  very  thoroughly  with  cold  water,  then  with  soda 
and  water,  to  remove  any  unpleasant  odor ;  next  with  salt 
and  water.  Rinse  with  &ir  water  and  wipe  inside.  Then 
wrap  in  a  wet  cloth,  and  keep  this  saturated  with  cold 
water  until  you  are  ready  to  stuff  it.  If  these  directions 
be  followed  implicitly,  the  pig  will  be  fair  and  white,  as 
if  intrusted  to  a  professional  butcher. 

For  stuffing,  take  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  half  a 
chopped  onion,  two  teaspoonfiils  powdered  sage,  three 
tablespoonftils  melted  butter,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  half 
a  grated  nutmeg,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  well- 
beaten  eggs.  Mix  all  these  ingredients,  except  the  egg^ 
together,  incorporating  them  well ;  beat  in  the  eggs,  and 
stuff  the  pig  into  his  natural  size  and  shape.  Sew  him 
up,  and  bend  his  fore-feet  backward,  his  hind-feet  forward, 
under  and  close  to  the  body,  and  skewering  them  into  the 
proper  position.  Dry  it  well,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Put 
it  to  roast  with  a  little  hot  water,  slightly  salted,  in  the 
dripping-pan.  Baste  with  butter  and  water  three  times, 
as  the  pig  gradually  warms,  afterward  with  the  dripping. 
When  it  begins  to  smoke  or  steam,  rub  it  over  every  five 
minutes  or  so,  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  melted  butter.  Do 
not  omit  this  precaution  if  you  would  have  the  skin  tender 
and  soft  after  it  begins  to  brown.    A  month-old  pig  will 


120 


OOMMON  SENSE. 


require  about  an  hour  and  three-quarters  or  two  hours — 
sometimes  longer — to  roast,  if  the  fire  be  brisk  and  steady. 

Should  you  or  your  guests  dislike  onion,  prepare  your 
stuffing  without  it  The  following  is  a  good  receipt  for 
rich  and  savory  force-meat  for  a  pig : — 

One  cup  of  bread-crumbs,  an  ounce  of  suet,  a  bunch 
of  parsley  minced  fine,  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage, 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  a  little  thyme,  half  a  glass  Ma- 
deira or  Sherry,  juice  of  a  lemon,  two  tablespoonfiils  melted 
butter,  a  cup  of  oyster-liquor,  and  two  well-beaten  eggs. 
For  a  Christmas  pig,  it  is  worth  one's  while  to  take  the 
trouble  to  prepare  this  stuffing. 

If  your  pig  is  large,  you  can  cut  ofi*  his  head  and  split 
him  down  the  back  before  sending  to  table.  Do  this  with 
a  sharp  knife,  and  lay  the  backs  together.  But  it  is  a  pity ! 
I  have  before  me  now  the  vision  of  a  pig  I  once  saw  served 
whole  on  the  table  of  a  friend,  that  forbids  me  ever  to 
mutilate  him  before  the  guests  have  a  chance  to  feast 
their  eyes  upon  the  goodly  picture.  He  was  done  to 
a  turn — a  rich,  even  brown,  without  a  seam  or  crack  from 
head  to  tail,  and  he  knelt  in  a  bed  of  deep-green  parsley, 
alternately  with  bunches  of  whitish-green  celery  tops  (the 
inner  and  tender  leaves) ;  a  garland  of  the  same  was 
about  his  neck,  and  in  his  mouth  was  a  tuft  of  white 
cauliflower,  surrounded  by  a  setting  of  curled  parsley. 
Very  simple,  you  see ;  but  I  never  beheld  a  more  orna- 
mental roast. 

Skim  your  gravy  well ;  add  a  little  hot  water,  thicken 
with  brown  flour,  boil  up  once,  strain,  and,  when  you  have 
added  half  a  glass  of  wine  and  half  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
serve  in  a  tureen. 

In  carving  the  pig,  cut  off  the  head  first ;  then  split 
down  the  back,  take  off  hams  and  shoulders,  and  separate 
the  ribs.    Serve  some  of  the  dressing  to  each,  person. 


121 

I  have  been  thus  minate  in  describing  th6  preparation 
of  this  holiday  dish,  because  it  is  erroneously  considered 
%  difficult  task.  Any  cook  with  a  moderate  degree  of 
judgment  and  experience  can  undertake  it  with  a  reason- 
able expectation  of  success. 

Pork  Steaks. 

Those  from  the  loin  are  best,  but  they  can  be  cut  from 
the  neck.  Remove  the  skin  and  trim  neatly.  Broil  over 
a  clear  fire,  without  seasoning,  adding  pepper,  salt,  a  pinch 
of  sage,  another  of  minced  onion,  and  a  lump  of  butter 
after  they  are  put  into  the  hot  dish.  Then  cover  closely 
and  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  until  the  aroma  of 
the  condiments  flavors  the  meat.  Try  this  method.  You 
can  cook  spare-rib  in  the  same  manner. 

Pork  Chops. 

Remove  the  skin,  trim  them,  and  dip  first  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  cracker-crumbs  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper, 
minced  onion,  and  a  little  sage.  Fry  in  hot  lard  or  drip- 
pings twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  turning  often.  The  gravy 
of  this  dish  is  usually  too  rich  or  fat  to  accompany  the 
meat.  •         • 

Pork  cutlets  are  cooked  in  like  manner.  Send  apple-sauce 
to  the  table  with  them,  and  season  with  tomato  catsup. 

Stewed  Pork. 

Take  some  lean  slices  from  the  leg,  or  bits  left  from 
trimming  the  various  pieces  into  shape.  Cut  into  dice  an 
inch  square,  put  into  a  pot  with  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  them,  and  stew  gently  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  closely  covered.  Meanwhile  parboil  half  a  dozen 
Irish  potatoes,  cut  in  thick  slices,  in  another  vessel.  When 
the  pork  has  stewed  the  allotted  time,  drain  off  the  water 
from  these  and  add  to  the  meat  Season  iivith  peppcur. 
6 


122  fxamott 

salt,  a  minced  shallot,  a  spoon 
a  buDch  of  aromatic  herba.  C 
miautes  longer,  or  until  the  m 

If  your  meat  b«  not  too  fat, 
eepeciallf  od  a  cold  day. 

You  can  stew  cutlets  in  the 
Pio'a  Head 

Take  the  head  of  a  half-gro 
taking  out  the  braios  and  set 
place.  Parboil  the  head  in  i 
wij>e  the  head  dry,  and  wash 
dredge  thickly  with  bread-cru 
Bage,  and  onion,  and  roast,  has 
water;  then  with  the  liquor  in 
at  last  with  the  gravy  that  rv 
the  brains  in  several  waters 
to  a  smooth  paste,  add  oni 
crumbs,  pepper,  and  salt ;  mak 
beaten  ^g ;  roll  in  flour  ant 
brown.  Arrange  about  the 
Skim  the  gravy  left  in  the 
brown  flour,  add  the  juice  of  t 
Pour  it  over  the  head. 

Piq'b  Head  with  Liteb 

Clean  and  split  the  head, 
setting  aside.  Put  the  head 
to  cover  it  and  parboil  it.  Hi 
the  liver  and  heart,  cut  into 
just  enough  water  to  keep  the 
the  head  b  half-done,  add  1 
second  vessel  to  the  flrst,  and 
little  onion,  parsley,  and  sage, 
head  li  very  tender,  whan  tab 


128 

middle  of  a  flat  dish.  With  a  perforated  skimmer  re- 
move the  Uyer  and  heart  and  spread  about  the  head, 
surrounding,  but  not  covering  it.  Strain  the  gravy  and 
return  to  the  pot,  thicken  with  brown  flour,  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  drop  in  carefully  force-meat  balls  of 
the  brains,  prepared  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt 
and  fried  a  light  brown.  Boil  once  and  pour  about  the 
head,  arranging  the  balls  upon  it,  to  cover  the  split  be- 
tween the  two  sides  of  the' head. 

You  may  improve  this  dish,  which  is  very  savory,  by 
boiling  a  couple  of  pigs'  feet  with  the  head  until  the  meat 
will  slip  from  the  bones.  Take  them  from  the  liquor,  cut 
oflT  and  chop  the  meat,  and  put  into  the  large  pot  when 
you  add  the  liver,  etc. 

Souse  of  Pigs*  Ears  and  Feet. 

Clean  the  ears  and  feet  well ;  cover  them  with  cold 
water  slightly  salted,  and  boil  until  tender.  Pack  in 
stone  jars  while  hot,  and  cover  while  you  make  ready  the 
pickle.  To  half  a  gallon  of  good  cider  vinegar  allow  half 
a  cup  of  white  sugar,  three  dozen  whole  black  peppers,  a 
dozen  blades  of  mace,  and  a  dozen  cloves.  Boil  this  one 
minute,  taking  care  that  it  really,  boils,  and  pour  while  hot 
over  the  still  warm  feet  and  ears.  It  will  be  ready  to  use 
in  two  days,  and  will  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place  two  months. 

If  you  wish  it  for  breakfast,  make  a  batter  of  one  egg, 
one  cup  of  milk,  salt  to  taste,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
with  enough  flour  for  a  thin  muffin-batter ;  dip  each  piece 
in  this,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  dripping.  Or  dip  each  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  pounded  cracker,  before  frying. 

Souse  is  also  good  eaten  cold,  especially  the  feet 

Head  Cheese,  (or  Souse.) 

This  is  made  of  the  head,  ears  and  tongue.  Boil  them 
in  salted  water  until  very  tender.    Strip  the  meat  from 


124  OOMMOir  SEITBE. 

the  boDes  aod  chop  fine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  sage, 
sweet  marjoram,  a  little  powdered  cloves,  and  half  a  cup 
of  strong  vinegar.  Mix  all  together  thoroughly,  taste  to 
see  that  it  is  flavored  sufficiently,  remembering  that  the 
spice  tends  to  keep  it,  and  pack  hard  in  moulds  or  bowls, 
interspersing  the  layers  with  bits  of  the  tongue  cut  iu 
oblongs,  squares  and  triangles  not  less  than  an  inch  in 
length.  Press  down  and  keep  the  meat  in  shape  by  put- 
ting a  plate  on  the  top  of  each  mould  (first  wetting  the 
plate)  and  a  weight  upon  this.  In  two  days  the  cheese  will 
be  ready  for  use.  Turn  out  from  the  shapes  as  you  wish 
to  use  it ;  or,  should  you  desire  to  keep  it  several  weeks, 
take  the  cheese  from  the  moulds  and  immerse  in  cold  vine- 
gar in  stone  jars.  This  will  preserve  it  admirably,  and 
you  have  only  to  pare  away  the  outside,  should  it  be  too 
acid  for  your  taste. 

This  is  generally  eaten  cold  for  tea,  with  vinegar  and 
mustard  ;  but  it  is  very  nice  cut  in  slices,  seasoned  slightly 
with  mustard,  and  warmed  in  a  frying-pan  with  enough 
butter  to  prevent  burning.  Or,  you  may  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  then  cracker-crumbs,  and  frj  for  breakfast. 

If  the  tongue  is  arranged  judiciously  the  slices  will  be 

prettily  marbled. 

Pork  Pot-pie. 

You  can  make  this  of  lean  pork  cut  from  any  part  of 
the  pig,  but  the  chine  is  best.  Crack  the  bones  well, 
and  cut  up  the  chine  into  riblettea  two  inches  long.  Line 
your  pot,  which  should  be  round  at  the  bottom  and  well 
greased,  with  a  good  light  paste  ;  put  in  the  meat,  then  a 
layer  of  parboiled  potatoes,  split  in  half,  seasoning  with 
pepper  and  salt  as  you  go  on.  When  the  pot  is  nearly 
full,  pour  in  a  quart  of  cold  water  and  put  on  the  upper 
crust,  cutting  a  small  round  hole  out  of  the  middle,  through 
which  you  can  add  hot  water  should  the  gravy  boil  away 


POBE.  125 

fcoo  fast  Slips  of  paste  maj  also  be  strewed  among  the 
meat  and  potatoes.  Put  on  the  pot-lid,  and  boil  from  one 
hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours.  When  done,  remove  the 
upper  crust  carefully,  turn  out  the  meat  and  gravy  into  a 
bowl,  that  you  may  get  at  the  lower.  Lay  this  upon  a 
hot  dbh,  put  the  meat,  etc.,  in  order  upon  it,  pour  the 
gravy  over  it,  and  cover  with  the  top  crust.  This  can  be 
browned  with  a  red-hot  shovel,  or  oveu-lid« 

Cheshire  Pork-pie. 

Cut  two  or  three  pounds  of ^  lean  fresh  pork  into  strips 
as  long  and  as  wide  as  your  middle  finger.  Line  a  buttered 
dish  with  puff-paste ;  put  in  a  layer  of  pork  seasoned  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg  or  mace ;  next  a  layer  of  juicy 
apples,  sliced  and  covered  with  about  an  ounce  of  white 
sugar ;  then  more  pork,  and  so  on  until  you  are  ready  for 
the  paste  cover,  when  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  sweet  cider  or 
wine,  and  stick  bits  of  butter  all  over  the  top.  Cover  with 
a  thick  lid  of  puff-paste,  cut  a  slit  in  the  top,  brush  over 
with  beaten  egg^  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half 

This  is  an  English  dish,  and  is  famous  in  the  region 
from  which  it  takes  its  name.  It  is  much  liked  by  those 
who  have  tried  it,  and  is  considered  by  some  to  be  equal 
to  our  mince-pie. 

Yorkshire  pork-pie  is  made  in  the  same  way,  with  the 
omission  of  the  apples,  sugar,  and  nutmeg,  and  the  addi- 
tion of  sage  to  the  seasoning. 

Sausage  (No.  1). 

6  lbs.  lean  fresh  pork. 
3  "    fat       "       " 
12  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage. 
6  "  black  pepper. 


126  GOMMOIff  BEN8B. 

6  teaspoonfula  salt 
2  teaspoonfuls  powdered  maoe. 
2  "  "        clovtift, 

1  grated  nutmeg. 

Grind  the  meat,  &t  and  lean,  in  a  aausage-mill,  or  chop 
it  very  fine.  The  mill  is  better,  and  the  grinding  does  not 
occupy  one- tenth  of  the  time  that  chopping  does,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  labor.  One  can  be  bought  for  three  or  four 
dollars,  and  will  well  repay  the  purchaser.  Mix  the  sea- 
soning in  with  your  hands,  taste  to  be  sure  all  is  right,  and 
pack  down  in  stone  jars,  ^uring  melted  lard  on  top. 
Another  good  way  of  preserving  them  is,  to  make  long, 
narrow  bags  of  stout  muslin,  large  enough  to  contain,  each, 
enough  sausage  for  a  family  dish.  Fill  these  with  the  meat, 
dip  in  melted  lard,  and  hang  from  the  beams  of  the  cellar. 

If  you  wish  to  pack  in  the  intestines  of  the  hog,  they 
should  be  carefully  prepared  as  follows :  Empty  them,  cut 
them  ID  lengths,  and  lay  for  two  days  in  salt  and  water. 
Turn  them  inside  out,  and  lay  in  soak  one  day  longer« 
Scrape  them,  rinse  well  in  soda  and  water,  wipe,  and  blow 
into  one  end,  having  tied  up  the  other  with  a  bit  oi 
twine.  If  they  are  whole  and  clear,  stuff  with  the  meat; 
tie  up  and  hang  in  the  store-room  or  cellar. 

These  are  fried  in  the  cases,  in  a  clean,  dry  frying-pan, 
until  brown.  If  you  have  the  sausage-meat  in  bulk, 
make  into  small,  round  flat  cakes,  and  fry  in  the  same 
way.  Some  dip  in  egg  and  pounded  cracker — others 
roll  in  flour  before  cooking.  Their  own  fat  will  cook 
them.  Send  to  table  dry  and  hot,  but  do  not  let  them 
fry  hard.  When  one  side  is  done,  turn  the  other.  The 
fire  should  be  very  brisk.  Ten  minutes,  or  twelve  at 
the  outside,  is  long  enough  to  cook  them. 


127 


Sausage  (No.  2.) 

4  lbs.  pork,  lean. 
U "      "      fat 

10  teaspooDfuls  sage. 

5  "         pepper. 
5  '<  salt 

Grind  and  season  as  directed  in  No.  1. 

This  will  not  keep  so  long  as  that  made  according  to 
the  ibrfner    receipt,   but    is   very  good    for   immediate 

fiunilj  use. 

Sausage  (^No.  3.) 

2  lbs.  lean  pork. 
2  "       "     veal. 

2  "    beef  suet 
Peel  of  half  a  lemon. 
1  grated  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

1  "       '  cayenne. 
6  teaspoonfuls  salt 

3  "    sweet  marjoram  and  thyme,  mixed* 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  sage. 
Juice  of  a  lemon. 

Stuff  in  cases.     This  is  very  fine. 

Bologna  Sausage  (Uncooked.) 

6  lbs.  lean  pork. 

3  "      "    beef. 

2  "      beef  suet 

4  ounces  salt 

6  tablepoonfuls  black  pepper. 

3  teaspoonfuls  cayenne. 

2  "  powdered  cloves. 


i28  OOMMOK  SENSE. 

1  teaspoonfiil  allspice. 

One  miDoed  onion,  very  finely  chopped. 

Chop  or  grind  the  meat,  and  mix  the  seasoning  well 
through  it  Pack  it  in  beef-skins  (or  entrails)  prepared 
as  you  do  those  of  pork.  In  the  city,  you  can  have  these 
cleaned  by  your  butcher,  or  get  them  ready  for  use  from  a 
pork  merchant.  Tie  both  ends  tightly,  and  lay  them  in 
brine  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg.  Let  them  be  in 
this  for  a  week ;  change  the  brine,  and  let  them  remain  in 
this  a  week  longer.  Turn  them  over  every  day  of  the 
fortnight.  Then  take  them  out,  wipe  them,  and  send  them 
to  be  smoked,  if  you  have  no  smoke-house  of  your  own. 
When  well  smoked,  rub  them  over  with  sweet  oil  or  fresh 
butter,  and  hang  them  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Bologna  sausage  is  sometimes  eaten  raw,  but  the  dread 
of  the  fatal  IrichiruB  should  put  at  end  to  this  practice,  did 
not  common  sense  teach  us  that  it  must  be  unwholesome, 
no  less  than  disgusting.  Cut  in  round,  thick  slices,  and 
toast  on  a  gridiron,  or  fry  in  their  own  fat  If  you  mean 
to  keep  it  some  time,  rub  over  the  skins  with  pepper  to 
keep  away  insects. 

BoLooNA  Sausage  (^Oooked.) 

2  lbs.  lean  beef. 
2  "  "  veal. 
2    "     "    pork 

2    *'  fat  salt  pork — ^not  smoked. 
1  lb.  beef  suet 
10  teaspoonfuk  powdered  sage. 

1  oz.  marjoram,  parsley,  savory,  and  thyme,  mixed. 

2  teaspoon fuls  cayenne  pepper,  and  the  same  of 

black. 


129 

1  grated  nutmeg. 
1  teaspooaful  cloves. 
1  minced  onion. 
Salt  to  taste. 

Chop  or  grind  the  meat  and  suet;  season,  and  stuff  into 
beef-skins ;  tie  these  up ;  prick  each  in  several  places  to 
allow  the  escape  of  the  steam ;  put  into  hot — not  boiling 
water,  and  heat  gradually  to  the  boiling-point.  Cook 
slowly  for  one  hour ;  take  out  the  skins  and  lay  them  to 
dry  in  the  sun,  upon  clean,  sweet  straw  or  hay.  Rub  the 
outside  of  the  skins  with  oil  or  melted  butter,  and  hang  in 
a  cool,  dry  cellar.  K  you  mean  to  keep  it  more  than  a 
weeky  rub  pepper  or  powdered  ginger  upon  the  outside. 
You  can  wash  it  off  before  sending  to  table.  This  is  eaten 
without  further  cooking.  Cut  in  round  slices,  and  lay 
sliced  lemon  around  the  edge  of  the  dish,  as  many  like  to 
squeeze  a  few  drops  upon  the  sausage  before  eating. 

Lard. 

Every  housekeeper  knows  how  unfit  for  really  nice 
cooking  is  the  pressed  lard  sold  in  stores  as  the  **  best  and 
cheapest."  It  is  close  and  tough,  melts  slowly,  and  is 
sometimes  diversified  by  fibrous  lumps.  And  even  when 
lard  has  been  ''  tried  out "  by  the  usual  process,  it  is  often 
mixed  with  so  much  water  as  to  remind  us  unpleasantly 
that  it  is  bought  by  weight. 

The  best  way  of  preparing  the  "  leaf  lard,"  as  it  is  called, 
is  to  skin  it  carefully,  wash,  and  let  it  drain ;  then  put  it, 
cut  into  bits,  into  a  large,  clean  tin  kettle  or  bucket,  and 
set  this  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Stir  from  time  to  time 
until  it  is  melted ;  throw  in  a  very  little  salt,  to  make  the 
sediment  settle ;  and  when  it  is  hot — (it  should  not  boil 
fast  at  any  time,  but  simmer  gently  until  clear) — strain 

6* 


-IPwC7*' 


130 


OOMMOK  iENBE. 


through  a  close  cloth  iDto  Jars.  J>o  not  squeeze  the  clotb 
80  long  as  the  clear  fiit  will  run  througli,  and  when  you 
do,  press  the  refuse  into  a  different  vessel,  to  be  used  for 
commoner  purposes  than  the  other. 

Most  of  the  lard  in  general  use  is,  however,  made  from 
the  fatty  portions  of  pork  lying  next  the  skin  of  the  hog, 
and  are  letl  for  this  purpose  by  the  butcher.  Scrape  from 
the  rind,  and  cut  all  into  dice.  Fill  a  large  pot,  putting 
in  a  teacupful  of  water  to  prevent  scorching,  and  melt  very 
slowly,  stirring  every  few  minutes.  Simmer  until  there 
remains  nothing  of  the  meat  but  fibrous  bits.  Remove 
these  carefully  with  a  perforated  skimmer ;  throw  in  a  little 
salt,  to  settle  the  fat,  and  when  it  is  clear  strain  through  a 
fine  cullender,  a  sieve,  or  a  coarse  cloth.  Dip  the  latter 
in  boiling  water,  should  it  become  clogged  by  the  cooling 
lard.  Observe  the  directions  about  squeezing  the  strainer. 
If  your  family  is  smaU,  bear  in  mind  that  the  lard  keeps 
longer  in  small  than  large  vessels.  Set  away  the  jars, 
closely  covered,  in  a  cool,  dry  cellar  or  store-room. 

In  trying  out  lard,  the  chief  danger  is  of  burning. 
Simmer  gently  over  a  steady  fire,  and  give  it  your  whole 
attention  until  it  is  done.  A  moment's  neglect  will  ruin 
all.  Stir  very  often — almost  constantly  at  the  last — and 
from  the  bottom,  until  the  salt  is  thrown  in  to  settle  it, 
when  withdraw  to  a  less  hot  part  of  the  fire.  Bladders 
tied  over  lard  jars  are  the  best  protection ;  next  to  these, 
paper,  and  outside  of  this,  cloths  dipped  in  melted  greasei 


Brawk  (No.  1.) 

Pig's  head  weighing  6  lbs. 

1  lb.  lean  beef. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

i  teaspoonful  pepper  (black  or  white). 


K>ms.  181 

I  teacipoonfiil  cayenne  pepp^. 

i  tea^poonful  maoe. 

A  pinch  of  cloves. 

A  small  onion  minced  very  fine. 

Clean  and  wash  the  head,  and  stew  with  the  beef  in 
enough  cold  water  to  cover.  When  the  bones  will  slip  out 
easily,  remove  them,  after  draining  off  the  liquor.  Chop 
the  meat  finely  while  it  is  hot,  season,  and  pour  all  into  a 
mould,  wet  inside  with  cold  water.  If  you  can  have  a  tin 
mould  made  in  the  shape  of  a  boar's  head,  your  brawn  will 
look  well  at  a  ChrLstmas  feast. 

Brawn  (No.  2.) 

Pig's  head,  feet,  and  ears. 

i  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  same  of 

cayenne. 
4  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage. 
1  teaspoonful  mace. 
An  onion  minced. 
Salt  and  saltpetre. 

Soak  the  head  twelve  hours,  and  lay  in  a  strong  brine, 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  saltpetre.  Let  it  lie  three  days  in 
this;  rinse ;  then  boil  it  until  you  can  draw  out  the  bones. 
Do  this  very  carefully  from  the  back  and  under-side  of  the 
head,  breaking  the  outline  of  the  top  as  little  as  possible. 
Chop  the  meat  of  the  feet  and  ears,  which  should  have 
been  boiled  with  the  head,  season  to  taste  with  the  spices 
I  have  indicated  (tastes  vary  in  these  matters),  beat  in 
the  brains,  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Fill  up 
the  hollows  left  by  the  removal  of  the  bones  with  this 
mixture.  Tie  in  a  flannel  cloth,  sewing  this  tightly  into 
the  shape  of  the  head ;  boil  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  and 


■et  aside  to  drain  and  cool. 
ODtil  next  day.    ThU  will  be 


8  lbs.  pork. 
4  teaspoonfula  bli 
I  teaspoccful  caj 
1  '•  clo 

8  teaspoonfula  saj 
tbyme,  mixed. 
1  teacupful  brea<3 

Lay  tbe  meat,  which  shoiil< 
of  Bait  and  water,  with  a  tal 
leave  it  for  three  days.  ] 
and  add  the  grated  bread, 
closely  covered,  in  an  oven  1 
is  better,  steam  over  boiling  i 

Eat  either  hot  or  cold. 

To  Pickle  P( 
Haras,  shoulders,  chines, 
parts  of  the  hog  which  are  u 
be  done  as  Boon  as  may  be  al 
especially  in  moderate  weathe 
pork,  within  twenty-four  houi 
to  do  BO,  unless  the  cold  be  8« 
longer. 

4i  lbs.  salt. 

1  lb.  brown  Bugai 

1  oz.  saltpetre  in 

Put  into  a  large  sauoepai 


cum.    When  cold, 
1  to  corn  a  small 


•s  and  1  pint  of  fii 
ugar,  or  1  quart  b 
Jtpetre. 

iz  the  seasoning,  i 
Ut,  using  the  one  ] 
and  lay  upon  boai 
ITS.  Then,  put  a 
arrel ;  lay  sticks  s 
in  the  liquor  that 
,  strewing  between 
Let  it  lie  in  tl 
day  during  this  I 
lor,  or  dramng  it 
•our  this  back  in  c 
ean  to  smoke  the 
igbt,  rub  each  piei 
the  barrel.  If  the 
le  in  the  proportii 
in  ounce  of  Baltp 
when  you  have  b 
Lay  a  round  piece 
:eep  this  down  wit 
to  be  sure  the  tr 
ly  to  taint,  throw 
ith  dry  salt,  and 
will  keep  (we  yet 


134  ooMMOy  dENss. 

To  Cure  Hams. 

Having  pickled  your  hama  with  the  rest  of  your  pork 
as  just  directed,  take  them,  after  the  lapse  of  sixteen  dajs^ 
from  the  packing  barrel,  with  the  shoulders  and  jowls. 
At  the  South  they  empty  the  ca^k,  and  consign  the  "  whole 
hog  "  to  the  smoke-house.  Wash  off  the  pickle,  and,  while 
wet,  dip  in  bran.  Some  use  saw-dust,  but  it  is  not  so  good. 
Others  use  neither,  only  wipe  the  meat  dry  and  smoke. 
The  object  in  dipping  in  bran  or  saw-dust  is  to  form  a 
crust  which  prevents  the  evaporation  of  the  juices.  Be 
sure  that  it  is  well  covered  with  the  bran,  then  hang  in 
the  smoke,  the  hock  end  downward.  Keep  up  a  good 
smoke,  by  having  the  fire  partially  smothered  with  hickory 
chips  and  saw  dust,  for  four  weeks,  taking  care  the  house 
does  not  become  hot.  Take  down  the  meat,  brush  off  the 
bran,  examine  closely,  and  if  you  suspect  insects,  lay  it  in 
the  hot  sun  for  a  day  or  two. 

The  various  ways  of  keeping  hams — each  Btrongiy 
recommended  by  those  who  have  practised  it — are  too 
numerous  to  mention  here.  Some  pack  in  wood  ashes ; 
others,  in  dry  oats ;  others,  in  bran.  But  the  best  authori- 
ties discard  packing  altogether.  I  will  name  one  or  two 
methods  which  I  know  have  been  successful.  "  I  hang 
mine  on  hooks  from  wires,  at  the  top  of  my  granary, 
which  is  tight  and  dark,'*  says  an  excellent-  judge  and 
manufacturer  of  hams.  "  They  are  good  and  sweet  when 
a  year  old."  Another  admirable  housekeeper  covers  with 
brown  paper,  then  with  coarse  muslin  stitched  tightly  and 
fitting  closely,  then  whitewashes.  But  for  the  paper,  the 
lime  would  be  apt  to  cat  away  the  grease.  Still  another 
covers  with  muslin,  and  coats  with  a  mixture  of  bees-wax 
and  rosin.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the  covers  are  an  ex- 
eellent  precaution — provided  always,  that  the  inaeisti  have 


13o 

not  already  deposited  their  eggs  in  the  meat    The  bran 
coating  tends  to  prevent  this. 

I  have  eaten  ham  twenty  years  old  in  Virginia,  which 
had  been  kept  sweet  in  slaked  ashes.  Unslaked  will  act 
like  lime  upon  the  &t 

Boiled  Ham. 

Soak  in  water  over  night.  Next  morning  wash  hard 
with  a  coarse  cloth  or  stiff  brush,  and  put  on  to  boil  with 
plenty  of  cold  water.  Allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  each 
pound  in  cooking,  and  do  not  boil  too  fiust.  Do  not 
remove  the  skin  until  cold ;  it  will  come  off  easily  and 
cleanly  then,  and  the  juices  are  better  preserved  than 
when  it  is  stripped  hot.  Send  to  table  with  dots  of  pepper 
or  dry  mustard  on  the  top,  a  tuft  of  fringed  paper  twisted 
about  the  shank,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Cut  very  thin  in  carving. 

Glazed  Ham.  >{< 

Brush  the  ham — a  cold  boiled  one,  from  whidi  the 
skin  has  been  taken — ^well,  all  over  with  beaten  egg.  To 
a  cup  of  powdered  cracker  allow  enough  rich  milk  or 
cream  to  make  into  a  thick  paste,  salt,  and  work  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter.  Spread  this  evenly  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick  over  the  ham,  and  set  to  brown  in  a  mode- 
rate oven. 

Steamed  Ham. 

This  is  by  far  the  best  way  of  cooking  a  ham.  Lay  in 
cold  water  for  twelve  hours ;  wash  very  thoroughly,  rub- 
bing with  a  stiff  brush,  to  dislodge  the  salt  and  smoke  on 
the  outside.  Put  into  a  steamer,  cover  closely,  and  set  it 
over  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Allow  at  least  twenty 
minutes  to  a  pound.     Keep  the  water  at  a  hard  boil. 

If  you  serve  ham  hot«  skin,  and  immediately  strew 


136  COMMON  8SMBB. 

thickly  with  cracker  or  bread-crumbs,  to  prevent  the  waste 
of  the  enseDce.  Put  a  frill  of  paper  about  the  knuckle. 
Send  around  cabbage  or  other  green  yegetables  with  it. 

Baked  Ham. 

Soak  for  twelve  hours.  Trim  away  the  rusty  part  from 
the  under  side  and  edges,  wipe  very  dry,  cover  the  bottom 
with  a  paste  made  of  flour  and  hot  water,  and  lay  it  upside 
down  in  the  dripping-pan,  with  water  enough  to  keep  it 
from  burning.  Bake  five  hours,  or  allow  fully  twenty-five 
minutes  to  a  pound.  Baste  now  and  then,  to  prevent  the 
crust  from  cracking  and  scaling  off.  When  done,  peel  off 
this  and  the  skin,  and  glaze  as  you  would  a  cold  ham. 

Put  cut  paper  about  the  knuckle,  and  garnish  with 
parsley  and  sliced  red  beet—pickled. 

Roast  Ham. 

Soak  for  two  days  in  lukewarm  water,  changing  at  least 
six  times  a  day.  Take  it  out,  wash  very  well,  scrubbing 
the  under  part  hard,  and  trimming  away  the  black  and 
rusty  edges.  Skin  with  care,  lest  you  mangle  the  meat 
and  spoil  the  symmetry  of  the  shape.  Lay  in  a  dish  and 
sponge  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  a  mixture  of  wine,  ^vinegar, 
sugar,  and  mustard — about  a  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar, 
a  saltspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  a  glass  of  wine  to 
half  a  gill  of  vinegar.  Do  this  at  intervals  of  an  hour, 
washing  every  part  of  the  ham  well,  all  day  and  until  bed- 
time. Renew  the  process  next  morning  until  six  hours 
before  you  need  the  meat  Put  it  upon  the  spit  or  in  the 
dripping-pan,  with  a  cup  of  hot  water  to  prevent  burning. 
Add  to  the  mixture — or  what  is  left  of  it  in  the  dish — a 
cupful  of  boiling  water.  Keep  this  on  the  stove  and  baste 
continually  with  it  until  the  liquor  flows  freely  from  the 
ham  as  it  cooks ;  then  substitute  the  gravy.  When  done 
(you  must  test  with  a  fork),  cover  with  cracker-crumbsy 


137 

worked  to  a  paste  with  milk,  butter,  and  a  beaten  egg^ 
and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown. 

Skim  the  gravy;  add  a  glass  of  good  wine,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  catsup, — walnut,  if  you  have  it, — the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Boil  up,  and  send  to 
table  in  a  boat 

Troubl^ome  as  the  mode  of  cooking  it  may  seem,  roast 
ham  is  so  delicious — especially  when  cold — as  fully  to 
recompense  the  l^usekeeper  who  may  be  tempted  to 
try  it. 

Broiled  Ham. 

Cut  in  slices.  Wash  well,  and  soak  in  scalding  water 
in  a  covered  vessel  for  half  an  hour.  Pour  off  the  water, 
and  add  more  boiling  water.  Wipe  dry  when  the  ham  has 
stood  half  an  hour  in  the  second  water,  and  lay  in  cold 
for  five  minutes.  Wipe  again  and  broil  over  (or  under)  a 
clear  fire. 

Cold  boiled  ham,  that  is  not  too  much  done,  is  better 
for  broiling  than  raw.     Pepper  before  serving. 

Barbecued  Ham.  ^ 

If  your  ham  is  raw,  soak  as  above  directed ;  then  lay 
the  slices  flat  in  a  frying-pan ;  pepper  each  and  lay  upon 
it  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard.  Pour  about 
them  some  vinegar,  allowing  half  a  teaspoonful  to  each 
dice.  Fry  quickly  and  turn  often.  When  done  to  a  fine 
brown,  transfer  to  a  hot  dish :  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan 
half  a  glass  of  wine  and  a  very  small  teaspoonful  of  white 
sugar.    Boil  up  and  pour  over  the  meat 

Underdone  ham  is  nice  barbecued. 

Fried  Ham. 

If  raw,  soak  as  for  broiling.  Cook  in  a  hot  frying-pan 
taming  often  until  done.     Serve  with  or  without  the 


138  OOHHON  BEN8K 

gnvj,  aa  you  plcMO.  In  some  pari 
customary  to  take  the  meat  fint  fro 
to  the  gravy  a  little  cream,  then  thic 
up  once  and  pour  over  the  ham.  A  . 
in  a  pleasant  addition  to  this  gravy. 

Or. 
You  may  dip  some  elicea  of  cold  boi 
thick — in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker- 
in  fat  extracted  from  aome  bits  of 
dry  fried  pork  from  the  pan  before 
Oamieh  with  crisped  parsley. 

Hak  Sakdwich] 
Cut  some  slicea  of  bread  is  a  nea 
the  cruat,  unless  it  ia  very  tender, 
between  every  two  aome  thin  slices 
Spread  the  meat  with  a  little  muatan 
Ground  ham  makes  deliciouB  8 
bread  very  thin,  and  butter  well.  I 
ham,  and  press  the  two  aides  of  the  si 
gently,  together.  Then  roll  lengthwic 
or  basket. 

Ham  and  Chickew  Saw 
Mince  aome  cold  roast  chicken,  a: 
cold  boiled  bam.  Put  the  mixture  i 
enough  gravy — chicken  or  veal — to  i 
you  have  no  gravy,  use  a  little  hot  v 
of  cream,  and  a  fair  lump  of  butter. 
to  your  taate.  Stir  while  it  heats  aln 
iiig  it  very  smooth.  In  about  five  n 
to  smoke,  take  &om  the  fire  and  spr 
With  a  good-sized  cake-cutter,  cir  a  f 
bier,  out  aome  rounds  of  cold  bread 


MftK.  isd 

of  each.    Sprinkle  the  buttered  sidee  with  grated  cheese, 
and,  when  the  chicken  is  cold,  put  a  layer  between  these. 
These  sandwiches  are  simple  and  very  good. 

Ham  and  Chicken  Pie. 

Cut  up  and  parboil  a  tender  young  chicken — a  year 
old  is  best  Line  a  deep  dish  with  a  good  pie- crust. 
Cot  some  thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham,  and  spread  a 
layer  next  the  crust;  then  arrange  pieces  of  the  fowl 
upon  the  ham.  Cover  this,  in  turn,  with  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  buttered  and  peppered.  Proceed  in  this  ordei 
until  your  materials  are  used  up.  Then  pour  in  enough 
veal  or  chicken  gravy  to  prevent  dryness  Unless  you 
have  put  in  too  much  water  for  the  size  of  the  fowl,  the 
liquor  in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled  is  best  for  thu> 
purpose.     Bake  one  hour  aUd  a  quarter  for  a  large  pie. 

Ham  and  Egos. 

Cut  your  slices  of  ham  of  a  uniform  size  and  shape 
Fry  quickly,  and  take  them  out  of  the  pan  as  soon  as 
they  are  done.  Have  the  eggs  ready,  and  drop  them,  one 
at  a  time,  in  the  hissing  fat.  Have  a  large  pan  for  this 
purpose,  that  they  may  not  touch  and  run  together.  In 
three  minutes  they  will  be  done.  The  meat  should  be 
kept  hot,  and  when  the  eggs  are  ready,  lay  one  upon  each 
slice  of  ham,  which  should  have  been  cut  the  proper  size 
for  this.     Do  not  use  the  gravy. 

Pork  and  Beans. 

Parboil  a  piece  of  the  middling  of  salt  pork,  and  score 
the  skin.  Allow  a  pound  to  a  quart  of  dried  beans,  which 
must  be  soaked  over  night  in  lukewarm  water.  Change 
this  twice  for  more^and  warmer  water,  and  in  the  morning 
put  them  on  to  boil  in  cold.    When  they  are  soft,  drain 


140  OOMMON  8EN8E. 

off  the  liquor,  put  the  beans  in  a  deep  dish,  and  half  bury 
the  pork  in  the  middle,  adding  a  very  little  warm  water. 
Bake  a  nice  brown.  The  beans  are  improved  by  the 
addition  of  a  tablespoonful  of  molasses  and  a  little  made 
mustard. 

This  is  a  favorite  dish  with  New  England  fiurmers  and 
many  others.  Although  old-fashioned,  it  still  makes  its 
weekly  appearance  upon  the  tables  of  hundreds  of  well- 
to-do  families. 

Pork  and  Peas  Puddino. 

Soak  the  pork,  which  should  not  be  a  fat  piece,  over 
night  in  cold  water ;  and  in  another  pan  a  quart  of  dried 
split  peas.  In  the  morning  put  on  the  peas  to  boil  slowly 
until  tender.  Drain  and  rub  through  a  cullender;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  mix  with  them  two  tablespoon- 
fuk  of  butter  and  two  beaten  eggs.  Beat  all  well  together. 
Have  ready  a  floured  pudding-cloth,  and  put  the  pudding 
into  it  Tie  it  up,  leaving  room  for  swelling ;  put  on  in 
warm,  not  hot  water,  with  the  pork,  and  boil  them  together 
an  hour.  Lay  the  pork  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  turn  out 
the  pudding,  slice  and  arrange  about  the  meat. 


COMPANY. 


LATiya  to  your  conduct  the  line  and  plummet  of  the 
Golden  Rule,  never  pay  a  vbit  (I  use  the  word  in  con- 
tradistinction to  ''  call ")  without  notifying  your  hostess- 
elect  of  your  intention  thus  to  favor  her. 

Perhaps  once  in  ten  thousand  times,  your  friend — ^be 
she  mother,  sister,  or  intimate  acquaintance — may  be  en- 
raptured at  your  unexpected  appearance,  travelling-satchel 
in  hand,  at  her  door,  to  pass  a  day,  a  night,  or  a  month ; 
or  may  be  pleasantly  surprised  when  you  take  the  baby, 


GOMTAKT.  141 

and  ran  in  to  tea  in  a  social  way.  But  the  chances  are  so 
greatly  in  favor  of  the  probability  that  you  will  upset  her 
household  arrangements,  abrade  her  temper,  or  put  her 
to  undue  trouble  or  embarrassment,  by  this  evidence  of 
your  wish  to  have  her  feel  quite  easy  with  you,  to  treat  you 
as  one  of  the  &mily,  that  it  is  hardly  worth  your  while  to 
risk  so  much  in  order  to  gain  so  little. 

Mrs.  Partington  has  said  more  silly  things  than  any 
other  woman  of  her  age  in  this  country ;  bur.  she  spoke 
wisely  in  declaring  her  preference  for  those  surprise-parties 
"  when  people  sent  word  they  were  coming.''  Do  not  be 
ashamed  to  say  to  your  nearest  kin,  or  the  confidante  of 
vour  school-davs — ^*'  Alwavs  let  me  know  when  to  look  for 
you,  that  I  may  so  order  my  time  and  engagements  as  to 
secure  the  greatest  possible  pleasure  from  your  visit.'*  If 
you  are  the  woman  I  take  you  to  be — methodical,  indus- 
trious, and  ruling  your  household  according  to  just  and 
firm  laws  of  order  and  punctuality,  you  need  this  notice. 
If  you  are  likewise  social  and  hospitable,  your  rules  are 
made  with  reference  to  possible  and  desirable  interruptions 
of  this  nature.  It  only  requires  a  little  closer  packing  of 
certain  duties,  an  easy  exchange  of  times  and  seasons,  and 
leisure  is  obtained  for  the  right  enjoyment  of  your  friend's 
society-  The  additional  place  is  set  at  table ;  your  spare 
bed,  which  yesterday  was  tossed  into  a  heap  that  both  mat- 
tresses might  be  aired,  and  covered  lightly  with  a  thin 
spread,  is  made  up  with  fresh  sheets  that  have  not 
gathered  damp  and  must  from  lying  packed  beneath 
blankets  and  coverlets  for  may  be  a  month,  for  fear  some- 
body might  happen  in  to  pass  the  night,  and  catch  you 
with  the  bed  in  disorder.  Towels  and  water  are  ready ; 
the  room  is  bright  and  dustless ;  the  dainty  dish  so  far 
prepared  for  dinner  or  tea  as  to  be  like  Mrs.  Bagnet*8 
greens,  "  off  your  mind ;"  John  knows  whom  he  is  to  see 


142  OOMMOK  8VN8E. 

at  his  home-coming ;  the  children  are  clean,  and  on  the 
qui  vtve^children's  instincts  are  always  hospitable.  The 
guest's  welcome  is  half  given  in  the  air  of  the  house  and 
the  family  group  before  you  have  time  to  utter  a  word. 
It  may  have  appeared  to  her  a  useless  formality  to  de^ 
spatch  the  note  or  telegram  you  insisted  upon.  She  knows 
you  love  her,  and  she  would  be  wounded  by  the  thought 
that  she  could  ever  "come  amiss"  to  your  home.  Per- 
haps, as  she  lays  aside  her  travelling-dress,  she  smiles  at 
your  "  ceremonious,  old-maidish  ways,"  and  marvels  that 
so  good  a  manager  should  deem  such  forms  necessary  with 
an  old  friend. 

If  she  had  driven  to  your  house  at  nightfall,  to  discover 
that  you  had  gone  with  husband  and  children  to  pass 
several  days  with  John's  mother,  in  a  town  fifty  miles 
away,  and  that  the  servants  were  out  "  a-pleasuring  "  in 
the  mistress*  absence ;  if  she  bad  found  you  at  home, 
nursing  three  children  through  the  measles,  she  having 
brought  her  youngest  with  her ;  if  you  were  yourself  the 
invalid,  bound  hand  and  foot  to  a  Procrustean  couch,  and 
utterly  unable  even  to  see  her — John,  meanwhile,  being 
incapacitated  from  playing  the  part  of  agreeable  host  by 
worry  and  anxiety ;  if,  on  the  day  before  her  arrival,  your 
chambermaid  had  gone  off  in  a  "  tiff,"  leaving  you  to  do 
her  work  and  to  nurse  your  cook,  sick  in  the  third  story  ; 
if  earlier  comers  than  herself  had  filled  every  spare  mat- 
tress in  the  house ; — if  any  one  of  these,  or  a  dozen  other 
ills  to  which  housekeepers  are  heirs,  had  impressed  upon 
her  the  idea  that  her  visit  was  inopportune,  she  might 
think  better  of  your  **  punctilio." 

But  since  unlooked-for  visitors  will  occasionally  drop 
in  upon  the  best  regulated  families,  make  it  your  study  to 
receive  them  gracefully  and  cordially.  If  they  care  enough 
for  you  to  turn  aside  from  their  regular  route  to  tarry  a 


MxpAirr.  148 

• 

day,  or  night,  or  week  with  jou,  it  would  be  churlish  not 
to  show  appreciatbn  of  the  favor  in  which  you  are  held. 
Make  them  welcome  to  the  best  you  can  offer  at  so  short 
a  DOticCy  and  let  no  preoccupied  air  or  troubled  smile 
bear  token  to  your  perturbation — if  you  are  perturbed. 
If  you  respect  yourself  and  your  husband,  the  appoint- 
ments of  your  table  will  never  put  you  to  the  blush.  John, 
who  buys  the  silver,  glass,  china,  and  napery,  is  entitled 
to  the  every-day  use  of  the  best.  You  may  have — I  hope 
this  IS  so — a  holiday  set  of  each,  put  away  beyond  the 
reach  of  hourly  accidents ;  but  if  this  is  fit  for  the  use  of 
a  lord,  do  not  make  John  eat  three  hundred  and  sixty 
days  in  the  year  from  such  ware  as  would  suit  a  ditcher's 
cottage.  If  your  children  never  see  bright  silver  unless 
when  '^  there  is  company,"  you  cannot  wonder,  although 
you  will  be  mortified,  at  their  making  looking-glasses  of 
the  bowls  of  the  spoons,  and  handling  the  forks  awk- 
wardly. Early  impress  upon  them  that  what  is  nice 
enough  for  Papa,  is  nice  enough  for  the  President.  I 
have  noticed  that  where  there  is  a  wide  difference  between 
family  and  company  table  furniture,  there  usually  exists 
a  corresponding  disparity  between  every-day  and  company 
manners. 

Especially,  let  your  welcome  be  ready  and  hearty  when 
your  husband  brings  home  an  unexpected  guest.  Take 
care  he  understands  clearly  that  this  is  his  prerogative : 
that  the  rules  by  which  you  would  govern  the  visits  of 
your  own  sex  are  not  applicable  to  his.  Men  rarely  set 
seasons  for  their  visits.  They  snatch  an  hour  or  two  with 
an  old  chum  or  new  friend  out  of  the  hurry  of  business 
life,  as  one  stoops  to  pluck  a  stray  violet  from  a  dusty 
roadside.  John  must  take  his  chances  when  he  can  get 
them.  If  he  can  walk  home,  arm  in  arm,  with  the  school- 
fellow he  has  not  seen  before  in  ten  years,  not  only  fear* 


144  ooimoBr  SEiii 

lewly,  but  gladly,  anticipatory  of 
sight  of  his ;  if,  nheo  the  stranger 
recave  hlra  as  your  friead  becaoi 
and  seat  him  to  a  family  dinner,  j 
and  eaten  in  cheerfulness  of  heai 
well-behaved,  and  your  attire  thai 
lost  the  deeira  to  look  her  beet  in 
you  have  added  to  the  links  of  at 
band's  heart  to  you ;  increased  his 
for  the  best  little  woman  in  the  wc 
been  driven  to  entertain  his  frien 
rooms,  because  he  dared  not  take  t 
mission  from  the  presiding  officer  ' 
majority  of  healthy  men  have  goo 
disposed  to  be  critjcal  of  an  unp 
The  chance  guest  of  this  sex  is 
addition  to  the  family  group,  instc 
supposing  him  to  be  John's  friend- 
As  to  party  aud  dinner-giving, 
obey  the  usage  of  the  community 
minor  pointe,  letting  common  senst 
you  in  essendals.  Be  chary  of  und 
not  carry  through  auccessfully.  P 
more  entertainmeuta  than  ignorant 
you  know  how  to  g^ve  a  large  even 
a  pleasant  and  remunerative  inves 
ral  hundred  dollars) — if  you  undei 
a  handsome  dinner-party,  and  can 
go  forward  bravely  to  success, 
walk.  Study  established  customs 
bouses  yoD  visit ;  take  counsel  wil 
now  and  ihen  make  modest  essays 
hility,  and,  insensibly,  theee  cnimt 
into  a  comely  loa£    There  is  no 


CX>MPAKT.  146 

«oin  a  word— to  guests  than  a  heated,  over-fktiguedy 
anxious  hostess,  who  betrays  her  inexperience  by  nervous 
glances,  abstraction  in  conversation,  and,  worst  of  all,  by 
apol(^es. 

A  few  general  observations  are  all  I  purpose  to  offer  as 
hints  of  a  foundation  upon  which  to  build  your  plans  for 
"  company-giving."  Have  an  abundance  of  clean  plates, 
silver,  knives,  &c.,  laid  in  order  in  a  convenient  place, — 
such  as  an  ante-room,  or  dining-room  pantry.— those  do- 
signed  for  each  course,  if  your  entertainment  is  a  dinner, 
npon  a  shelf  or  stand  by  themselves,  and  make  your  wait- 
ers understand  distinctly  in  advance  in  what  order  these 
are  to  be  brought  on. 

Boup  should  be  sent  up  accompanied  only  by  bread,  and 
such  sauce  as  may  be  fashionable  or  suitable.  Before 
dinner  is  served,  however,  snatch  a  moment,  if  possible, 
to  inspect  the  table  in  person,  or  instruct  a  trustworthy 
factotum  to  see  that  everything  is  iu  place,  the  water  in 
the  goblets,  a  slic^  of  bread  laid  upon  a  folded  napkin  at 
each  plate,  &c.  Unless  you  have  trained,  professional 
waiters,  this  is  a  wise  precaution.  If  it  is  a  gentleman's 
dinner,  you  can  see  to  it  for  yourself,  since  you  will  not  be 
obliged  to  appear  in  the  parlor  until  a  few  minutes  be- 
fore they  are  summoned  to  the  dining-room.  If  there  are 
ladies  in  the  company,  you  must  not  leave  them. 

To  return,  then,  to  our  soup :  It  is  not  customary  to 
offer  a  second  plateful  to  a  guest.  When  the  table  is 
cleared,  the  fish  should  come  in,  with  potatoes — no  other 
v^;etable,  unless  it  be  stewed  tomatoes.  After  a  thorough 
change  of  plates,  &c. ,  come  the  substantials.  If  possible, 
the  carving  of  game  and  other  meats  is  done  before  they 
are  brought  in.  One  or  more  vegetables  are  passed  with 
each  meat  course.  Salad  is  a  course  of  itself,  unless  when 
it  accompanies  chicken  or  pigeon.  If  wine  be  used,  it  is 
7 


146  COMMON  BtllBE. 

introduced  with  the  fish.  Pastry  is  the  first  relay  of  des- 
sert, and  puddings  may  be  served  from  the  other  end  of 
the  table.  Next  appear  creams,  jellies,  charlotte- ruases, 
oaken,  and  the  like;  then  fruit  and  nuts;  lastly,  cofiee, 
often  accompanied  with  crackers  and  cheese.  Wine,  of 
course,  goes  around  during  the  dessert — if  it  flows  at  all. 

Evening  parties  are  less  troublesome  to  a  housekeeper, 
because  less  ceremonious  than  dinners.  If  you  can  afford 
it,  the  easiest  way  to  give  a  large  one  is  to  put  the  whole 
business  into  the  hands  of  the  profession,  by  intrusting 
your  order,  not  only  for  supper,  but  waiters  and  china,  to 
a  competent  confectioner.  But  a  social  standing  supper 
of  oysters,  chickennsalad,  sandwiches,  coffee,  ice-cream, 
jellies,  and  cake,  is  not  a  formidable  undertaking  when 
you  have  had  a  little  practice,  especially  if  your  own,  or 
John's  mother,  or  the  nice,  neighborly  matron  over  the 
way  will  assist  you  by  her  advice  and  presence.  The 
"  Ladies'  Luncheon  "  and  "  Afternoon  Tea  "  are  sodal  and 
graceful  "  modern  improvements.'' 

We  make  this  matter  of  company  too  hard  a  business 
in  America ;  are  too  apt  to  treat  our  friends  as  the  8tras- 
burgers  do  their  geese ;  shut  them  up  in  overheated  quar- 
ters, and  stuff  them  to  repletion.  Our  rooms  would  be 
better  for  more  air,  our  guests  happier  had  they  more 
liberty,  and  our  hostess  would  be  prettier  and  more 
sprightly  were  she  not  overworked  before  the  arrivals 
begin,  and  full  of  trepidation  after  they  come, — ^a  woman 
cumbered  with  many  thoughts  of  serving,  while  she  is 
supposed  to  be  enjoying  the  society  of  her  chosen  associ- 
ates. It  is  so  well  understood  that  company  is  wearineas, 
that  inquiries  as  to  how  the  principal  agent  in  bringing 
about  an  assembly  has  "  borne  it,"  have  passed  into  a  cu»* 
torn.  The  tender  sympathies  manifested  in  such  queriea, 
the  martyr-like  air  with  which  they  are  answered,  cannot 


I  the  wtiri«al  caiod  the  Chinamsn'B  oom- 
British  officers'  dancing  on  ehipboard  in 

BO  make  your  servants  do  so  hard  work, 
t  dem  ?" 

the  very  name  and  meaning  of  hospitality 
our  families,  wear  away  our  patjence,  and 
vous  forces  with  our  husbands'  money 
o  order  expensive  entertainments  for  con- 
fers, whose  utmost  acknowledgment  of  our 
behalf  will  consist  in  an  invitatiOD,  a  year 
ft,  to  a  party  constructed  on  the  same  plan, 
le  better  or  a  little  worse  than  ours.  This 
ity  without  grudging,  but  a  vulgar  system 
gluttony  more  worthy  of  AbyaBiuians  than 
efolk. 


ived  a  letter  from  the  wife  of  an  Eastern 
erooved  to  the  Great  West,  in  which  bitter 
B  made  of  the  scarcity  of  certain  comforts — 
;andy  amoug  them — to  which  she  had  been 
jther  days.  "  My  husband  shot  a  fine  deer 
she  wrote,  "  but  I  could  never  endure  ven- 
tell  me  of  any  way  of  cooking  it  so  as  to 
ly  eatible?"  I  did  not  tliink  it  very  singu- 
rhose  chief  craving  in  the  goodly  land  in 
found  a  home  was  for  cocoanut  cakes  and 
aels,  should  not  like  the  viand  the  name  of 
1  not  spell.    Vot  did  I  wonder  that  eb« 


148  COIIMOV  BEimx. 

failed  to  make  it  '^eatible/*  or  doubt  that  her  cooking 
matched  her  orthography.  But  I  am  amazed  often  at 
hearing  really  skilful  housewives  pronounce  it  an  undea- 
rable  dish.  .  In  the  hope  of  in  some  measure  correcting 
this  impression  among  Eastern  cooks,  who,  it  must  be 
allowed,  rarely  taste  really  fresh  venison,  I  have  written 
out,  with  great  care  and  particularity,  the  following  re- 
ceipts, most  of  which  I  have  used  in  my  own  &mily  with 
success  and  satisfaction. 

The  dark  color  of  the  meat, — ^I  mean  now  not  the  black, 
but  rich  reddish-brown  flesh, — so  objectionable  to  the 
uninitiated,  is  to  the  gourmand  one  of  its  chief  recommen- 
dations to  his  favor.  It  should  also  be  fine  of  grain  and 
well  coated  with  fat. 

Keep  it  hung  up  in  a  cool,  dark  cellar,  covered  with  a 
doth,  and  use  as  soon  as  you  can  conveniently. 

Haunch  of  Venison.  >i< 

If  the  outside  be  hard,  wash  off  with  lukewarm  water ; 
then  rub  all  over  with  fresh  butter  or  lard.  Cover  it  on 
the  top  and  sides  with  a  thick  paste  of  flour  and  water, 
nearly  half  an  inch  thick.  Lay  upon  this  a  large  sheet  of 
thin  white  wrapping-paper  well  buttered,  and  above  this 
thick  foolscap.  Keep  all  in  place  by  greased  pack-thread, 
then  put  down  to  roast  with  a  little  water  in  the  dripping- 
pan.  Let  the  fire  be  steady  and  strong.  Pour  a  few 
ladlefuls  of  butter  and  water  over  the  meat  now  and  then, 
to  prevent  the  paper  from  scorching.  If  the  haunch  is " 
large,  it  will  take  at  least  five  hours  to  roast.  About  half 
an  hour  before  you  take  it  up,  remove  the  papers  and 
paste,  and  test  with  a  skewer  to  see  if  it  is  done.  If  this 
passes  easily  to  the  bone  through  the  thickest  part,  set  it 
down  to  a  more  moderate  fire  and  baste  every  few  minutes 
with    claret    and   melted    butter.      At    the    last,  baste 


irith  flour  to  nuke  a  light 
a  fine  brown  hy  ihia  timi 
T  around  tbe  knuckle. 

0  a  saucepan  a  pound  or  s 
rom  trimming  the  haunch, 
ves,  a  few  blades  of  mace, 
lit  to  taste.  Stow  slowly 
y.  Skim,  atrwn,  and  ret 
have  rinsed  it  with  hot  vri 

of  currant  jelly,  a  glaa 
)f  butter,  and  thicken  wit 

1  in  a  tureen. 

int  jelly  with  venison  alwa 

Neck. 
irecisely  as  is  the  haunch, 
o  a  pound. 

Shodlder. 
Bsting-piecc,  but  may  be  cc 
paper.     Basto  often  with 
he  last,  with  claret  and  b 
an  instant. 

Stew  a.  Shodldeb, 
s  through  the  under-«de, 
slices  of  &t  mutton,  minci 
th  cayenne,  salt,  allspice, 
m  which  the  bones  were  ta 
broad  tape.  Put  in  a  larg 
made  irom  the  refuse  bits  < 
ira  or  Port  wine,  and  a  li 
y,  and  stew  very  slowly  th 
the  size.     It  should  be  Tt 


190  OOKHOS  9SSBE. 

Remove  the  tapet  with  oare;  dish,  and 
■traioed  the  gravy,  pour  over  the  meat. 

This  is  a  most  savory  diah. 

Venison  Steakb.  •{« 

These  are  taken  from  the  neck  or 
your  gridiron  well  buttered,  and  fire  clea 
the  Bteaks  od  the  bars  and  broil  rapidly,  t 
to  lose  a  drop  of  juice.  They  will  tal 
minutes  longer  to  broil  than  beef-eteaks. 
a  hot  chafing-dish  a  piece  of  butter  the  a 
each  pound  of  venison,  a  pinch  of  salt,  t 
tablespoonful  currant-jelly  for  each  pouc 
wine  for  every  four  pounds.  This  shoult 
warmed  by  the  boiling  water  under  the 
the  steaks  are  done  to  a  turn.  If  you  havi 
heat  in  a  saucepan.  Lay  each  steak  in  th' 
and  turn  over  twice.  Cover  closely  and 
gether,  with  fresh  hot  water  beneath — un 
burning — for  five  minutes  before  serving 
in  an  ordinary  dish,  cover  and  set  in  the  ( 
time. 

Or, 
If  you  wish  a  plainer  dish,  omit  the  wine  i 
and  salt  the  steaks  when  broiled,  and 
them  in  the  proportion  I  have  stated,  le 
between  hot  dishes  five  minutes  before 
turning  them  three  times  in  the  gravy  thai 
to  mingle  with  the  melted  butter.  Deli 
responding  to  the  shape  of  mutton  chops 
loin  and  rack. 

Venison  Cutlets.  >{« 

Trim  the  cutlets  nicely,  and  make  gn 
bits  In  the  proportion  of  a  cup  of  cold  wat< 


GAME.  151 

of  yeniaon.  Put  in  bones,  scraps  of  fat,  etc.,  and  set  on  in 
a  saucepan  to  stew  while  jou  make  ready  tlie  cutlets. 
Lard  vrith  slips  of  &t  salt  pork  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart, 
and  projecting  slightly  on  either  side.  When  the  gravy 
has  stewed  an  hour,  strain  and  let  it  cool.  Lay  the  cut- 
lets in  a  saucepan,  with  a  few  pieces  of  young  onion  on 
each.  Allow  one  onion  to  four  or  five  pounds.  It  should 
not  be  flavored  strongly  with  this.  Scatter  also  a  little 
minced  parsley  and  thyme  between  the  layers  of  meat, 
with  pepi)er,  and  a  very  little  nutmeg.  The  pork  lardoons 
will  salt  sufficiently.  When  you  have  put  in  all  your 
meat,  pour  in  the  gravy,  which  should  be  warm — not  hot 
Stew  steadily  twenty  minutes,  take  up  the  cutlets  and  lay 
in  a  frying-pan  in  which  you  have  heated  just  enough 
butter  to  prevent  them  from  burning.  Fry  five  minutes 
very  quickly,  turning  the  cutlets  over  and  over  to  brown, 
without  drying  them.  Lay  in  order  in  a  chafing-dish,  and 
have  ready  the  gravy  to  pour  over  them  without  delay. 
This  should  be  done  by  straining  the  liquor  left  in  the 
saucepan  and  returning  to  the  fire,  with  the  addition  of  a 
tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly,*  a  teaspoonful  Worcester- 
shire or  other  piquant  sauce,  and  half  a  glass  of  wine. 
Thicken  with  browned  flour,  boil  up  well  and  pour  over 
the  cutlets.  Let  all  stand  together  in  a  hot  dish  five 
minutes  before  serving.  Venison  which  is  not  fat  or  juicy 
enough  for  roasting  makes  a  relishablc  di;ih  cooked  after 
this  receipt. 

Hashed  Venkon.  ^ 

The  remains  of  cold  roast  venison — especially  a  stuffed 
shoulder — ^may  be  used  for  this  dish,  and  will  give  great 
satisfaction  to  cook  and  consumers.  Slice  the  meat  from 
the  bones.  Put  these  with  the  fitt  and  other  scraps  in  a 
mxtmpB,!^,  With  a  large  teacupfbl  of  cold  water,  a  small 


1S2  COUHON   3E 

DuioB — one  of  the  button  kin 
thyme,  pepper  aad  salt,  and  th 
Blew  for  au  hour-  Strain  and 
with  whatever  gravy  was  left  froi 
fnl  currant  jelly,  one  of  tomatc 
teaspoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  an 
Boil  for  three  minutes;  lay  in  t 
about  an  inch  long,  and  let  all  h 
minutes,  butdo  not  allow  the  hu 
and  when  it  ia  smoking  hot,  ti 
dish. 

RoABT  Fa 

Clean,  wash  thoroughly;  stul 
made  of  bread-crumbs,  chopped 
little  grated  nutmeg,  the  Juice  of 
water  and  cream,  bind  with  beat* 
Sew  up  the  &wn,  turning  the 
close  to  the  body.  Cover  with  thii 
on  with  pack-thread,  crossing  in 
at  a  quick  fire.  Allow  twenty 
Twenty  minutes  before  it  is  dish^ 
set  down  the  &wn  to  brown,  bt 
At  the  last,  dredge  with  flour,  1 
butter,  and  eerve. 

Garnish  with  abundance  of  cu 
drops  of  red  currant  jelly.  A  1 
some  way — also  bares  and  rabbit 

Vemison  Pa( 
This  is  a  name  dear  to  the  I 
since  the  days  when  Friar  Tui 
CoBur  de  Lion  upon  it  in  the  de| 
until  the  present  generation.  1 
puatively  little  known ;  but  I 


GAMS.  168 

who  have  never  jet  been  able  to  make  venison  "  tolerably 
eatable." 

Almost  any  part  of  the  deer  can  be  used  for  the  pur- 
pose, but  the  neck  and  shoulders  are  generally  preferred. 

Cut  the  raw  venison  from  the  bones,  and  set  aside  these, 
with  the  skin,  £Eit,  and  refuse  bits,  for  gravy.  Put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  shallot,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg  and 
sweet  herbs,  cover  well  with  cold  water,  and  set  on  to  boil. 
Meanwhile,  cut  the  better  and  fairer  pieces  of  meat  into 
squares  an  inch  long,  and  cook  in  another  saucepan  until 
three-quarters  done.  Line  a  deep  dish  with  good  puff-paste. 
That  for  the  lid  should  be  made  after  the  receipt  appended 
to  this.  Put  in  the  squares  of  venison,  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  butter,  and  put  in  half  a  cupful  of  the  liquor  in 
which  the  meat  was  stewed,  to  keep  it  from  burning  at  the 
bottom.  Cover  with  a  lid  of  the  prepared  pastry  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  a  round  hole  in  the  middle,  and  if  you  have 
not  a  small  tin  cylinder  that  will  fit  this,  make  one  of  but- 
tered paper ;  stiff  writing-paper  is  best.  The  hole  should 
be  large  enough  to  admit  your  thumb.  Bake  steadily, 
covering  the  top  with  a  sheet  of  clean  paper  so  soon  as  it 
is  firm,  to  prevent  it  from  browning  too  fast.  While  it  is 
cooking  prepare  the  gravy.  When  all  the  substance  has 
been  extracted  from  the  bones,  etc.,  strain  the  liquor  back 
into  the  saucepan ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  when  you 
have  skimmed  carefully,  add  a  glass  of  Port  wine,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  some  browned 
flour  to  thicken.  Boil  up  once,  remove  the  plug  from  the 
hole  in  the  pastry,  and  pour  in  through  a  small  funnel,  or 
a  paper  horn,  as  much  gravy  as  the  pie  will  hold.  Do 
this  very  quickly;  brush  the  crust  over  with  beaten  egg 
and  put  back  in  the  oven  until  it  is  a  delicate  brown,  or 
rather,  a  golden  rusMt  The  pie  should  only  be  drawn 
to  the  door  of  the  oven  Ibr  these  operations,  and  evtoy- 

7* 


iM  cohhOM  mm 

thing  should  be  in  readineBl  befoi 
the  crust  may  be  light  And  flaky.  I 
than  you  need  for  the  dish,  serve  i 

Csctrt  OF  Pas 

U  lb.  of  flour. 

12  01.  butler. 

Yolks  of  3  eggt. 

Bait. 

Ice-vater. 
Dry  and  sift  the  flour  and  cut  i 
vith  s  knife  or  chopper  until  the 
low ;  salt,  and  work  up  with  ice-w 
yolks  beaten  very  light  Work  o\ 
little  as  possible,  roll  out  three  ti 
vith  butter  then  into  a  lid  nearly  i 
a  thinner  one  for  ornaraonts.  Havi 
cut  from  the  second  sheet  with 
flowers,  stars,  or  any  figures  you  li 
your  crust.  Bake  the  handsomes 
by  iUelf,  and  brush  it  over  with  ^ 
pie.  After  the  pasty  is  baked,  cove 
with  this. 

If  these  directions  be  closely  foil 
delicious.  Bake  two  or  three  hou 
the  size  of  the  pie.     It  is  good  hot  < 

Vkwwon  Ha 
These  are  eaten  raw,  and  will  no 
nooked  n>eats. 

Miz  together  in  equal  propor 
sugar,  and  rub  Uiem  hard  into  the 
Pack  them  i»  a  oaak,  ipriakling 
aad  l«t  tb«a  lie  eight  di^  rabbil 


RABBIZ9  QB  HKSES.  IM 

with  dry  salt  and  sugar.  Next  mix  equal  parts  of  fine 
salt,  molasses,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  saltpetre  to  every  two 
hams.  Take  the  hams  out  of  the  pickle,  go  over  them 
with  a  brush  dipped  in  cider  vinegar,  then  in  the  new 
mixture.  Empty  the  cask,  wash  it  out  with  cold  water, 
and  repack  the  hams,  dripping  firom  the  sticky  bath,  scat- 
tering fine  salt  over  each.  Let  them  lie  eight  days  longer 
in  this.  Wash  off  the  pickle  first  with  tepid  water,  until  the 
salt  crystals  are  removed ;  then  sponge  with  vinegar,  pow- 
der them  with  bran  while  wet,  and  smoke  a  fortnight,  or, 
if  lai^e,  three  weeks.  Wrap  in  brown  paper  that  has  no 
unpleasant  odor,  stitch  a  muslin  cover  over  this,  and  white- 
wash,  unless  you  mean  to  use  at  once.  Chip  or  shave  for 
the  table. 

Venison  Sausages. 

5  lbs.  lean  venison. 

2    ''  fat  salt  pork. 

5  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage. 

4  "  salt 

4  *'  black  pepper. 

2  ''  cayenne. 

1  small  onion. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Chop  the  meat  very  small,  season,  and  pack  in  skins  oi 
small  stone  jars.  Hang  the  skins,  and  set  the  jars,  tied 
down  with  bladders,  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Fry  as  you  do  other  sausages. 


RABBITS   OR    HARES. 

The  tame  rabbit  is  rarely  if  ever  eaten.  The  wild  hare 
of  the  South — in  vulgar  parlance,  "  old  hare,"  although 
the  creature  may  be  but  a  day  old — exactly  corresponds 


166  couMoa  ass 

with  the  rabbit  of  the  Northern  : 
tender  may  be  made  into  a  vsriet; 
Hares  are  unfit  for  eating  in  t 
is  thiu  much  significance  in  "  Mad 
real  English  hare  is  a  much  largei 
is  known  in  this  country  by 
correctly,  all  our  "  old  field  hares 

Roast  Rab 
Cleaui  wash,  and  soak  in  watt 
hour  and  a  half,  uhauging  it  once 
best  to  make  yuur  butcher  or  hi 
you  undertake  to  handle  it.  Af 
enough.  Parboil  the  heart  and  I 
with  a  slice  of  &t  pork,  also  mini 
of  bread-crumbs,  well  seasoned,  ac 
meat  Stuff  the  body  with  this,  a 
butter  and  roast,  basting  with  bu 
gravy  flows  freely,  then  with  the 
done  in  an  hour.  Dredge  with  fl 
taking  it  up,  then  froth  with  butt 
add  to  the  gravy  a  little  lem< 
minced,  a  tableapoonful  of  bu 
browned  fiour.  Give  it  a  boil  « 
or  boat. 

Garnish  the  rabbit  with  sliced 
currant  jelly  in  the  centre  of  eact 
before  sending  to  table- 

Eabbfts  Stewed  w 

Clean  a  pair  of  nice  rabbits 

water  for  an  hour,  to  draw  out  th{ 

saucepan  with  cold  water  enou 

slightly,  and  stew  until  tender-    E 


RABBITS  OR  HARES.  167 

a  dozen  joang  onions,  and  boil  in  a  very  little  water  until 
thoroughly  done.  Drain  off  the  water,  and  stir  the  onions 
into  a  gill  of  drawn  butter,  pepper  to  taste,  and  when  it 
simmers,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Cut  off  the  heads  of 
the  hares,  lay  in  a  hot  dish  and  pour  over  them  the  onion- 
sauce.  Let  the  dish  stand  in  a  warm  place,  closely 
covered,  five  minutes  before  sending  to  table. 

Fricasseed  Rabbit.    (  White.)  ^ 

Clean  two  young  rabbits,  cut  into  joints,  and  soak  in 
^t  and  water  an  hour.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  pint 
of  cold  water,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion  finely 
minced,  a  pinch  of  mace,  one  of  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  half 
a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork,  cut  into  slips.  Cover,  and  stew 
until  tender.  Take  out  the  rabbits  and  set  in  a  dish 
where  they  will  keep  warm.  Add  to  the  gravy  a  cup  of 
cream  (or  milk),  two  well- beaten  eggs  stirred  in  a  little  at 
a  time,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  up  once — 
when  you  have  thickened  with  flour  wet  in  cold  milk — 
and  take  the  saucepan  from  the  fire.  Squeeze  in  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  stirring  all  the  while,  and  pour  over  the 
rabbits.    Do  not  cook  the  head  or  neck. 

Fricasseed  Rabbit.  ^  (Brown^ 

Cut  pff  the  head — joint,  and  lay  in  soak  for  an  hour. 
Season  the  pieces  with  pepper  and  salt,  dredge  with  flour, 
and  fry  in  butter  or  nice  dripping  until  brown.  Take 
from  the  fat,  lay  in  a  saucepan,  and  cover  with  broth  made 
of  bits  of  veal  or  lamb.  Add  a  minced  onion,  a  great 
spoonful  of  walnut  catsup,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  pinch 
of  cloves  and  one  of  allspice,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne. 
Cover  closely,  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Lay  the 
pieces  of  hare  in  order  upon  a  hot  dish  and  cover  to  keep 
warm.     Strain  the  gravy,  return  to  the  saucepan,  thicken 


168  ooioioii  BBinc. 

with  browned  flour,  put  in  »  tablet 
equeeze  in  the  juice  of  ft  lemon,  pour  o' 
■end  to  table. 

Labdgd  Rabbit. 
Cut  off  the  head  and  divide  the  bodj 
with  Blips  of  Cat  pork ;  put  ioto  a  cl 
and  frj  until  half  done.  Have  read^  i 
made  of  veal  or  beef— the  first  is  bette 
rabbit  into  a  eaucepan,  with  a  bund 
minced  onion,  and  some  pepper,  Sb 
half  an  hour,  nr  until  tender;  take  o 
lay  in  a  hot  covered  diah.  Strain  the 
spoonful  of  butter,  the  juice  of  a  lemoi 
flour.     Boil  up  and  pour  over  the  met 

Fried  Rabbit. 
They  must  be  very  tender  for  this 
joints;  soak  for  an  hour  in  salt  i 
beaten  egg,  then  in  powdered  crackei 
nice  sweet  lard  or  dripping.  Serve 
Oamish  witb  sliced  lemon. 

Babbecued  Rabbit. 
Clean  and  vaah  tb^  rabbit,  which  i 
young,  and  having  opened  it  all  the  wa 
lay  it  flat,  with  a  email  plate  or  saucer 
salted  water  for  half  an  hour.  Wipe  <: 
with  the  exception  of  the  head,  whei 
across  tlie  backbone  in  eight  or  ten  p! 
may  penetrate  this,  the  thickest  parL 
hot  and  clear,  the  rabbit  turned  oftei 
and  tender,  lay  upon  a  very  hot  dish,  ] 
buttei  profusely,  turning  the  rabbit  ov 
up  the  melted  butter.     Cover  and  set 


.t  in  a  tin  cup  two  tablespooDf^ile  of  vine- 
fa  one  of  made  mustard.  Anoint  Ibe  hot 
this,  cover  and  send  to  tabic  garnished 
iley. 

ttis  barbecue  is  most  appetizing,  and  the 
inferior. 

Rabbit  Pie. 
'  rabbits  into  eight  pieces  each,  soalc  in 
f  an  hour,  and  stew  until  half  done  in 
cover  them.  Cut  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
ilips,  and  boil  four  eggs  hard.  Lay  some 
be  bottom  of  a  deep  dish  and  upon  these 
bbit  Upon  this  spread  slices  of  boiled 
d  buttered.  Sprinkle,  moreover,  with  a 
lace,  and  squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon- 
piece  of  meat.  Proceed  in  this  order 
full,  the  top  layer  being  pork.  Pour  in 
;h  the  rabbit  was  boiled,  when  you  have 
led  some  lumps  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
paste,  cut  a  slit  in  the  middle,  and  bake 
paper  over  the  top  should  it  brown  too 


SQUIRRELS. 
y  squirrel  is  seldom  eaten  at  the  North, 
request  in  Virginia  and  other  Southern 
erally  barbecued,  precisely  as  are  rabbits; 
i,  or — most  popular  of  all — made  into  a 

This  is  named  from  Brunswick  County, 
a  famous  dish — or  was — at  the  political 
:»  known  as  barbecues.  I  am  happy  to 
.  receipt  for  this  stew  that  is  genuine  and 


explicit,  and   for  which  I  an 

housekeeper. 

Brumbwece 
2  squirrels — 3,  if  emal 
1  quart  of  tomatoes — 
I  piut  butler-beans,  oi 
6  potatoes — parboiled 
6  eara  of  green  oom  c 
i  lb.  butter. 
1  "  &t  salt  pork. 
1  teaspoonful  ground  I 
Half  a  teaspoonful  ca] 
1  gallon  vater. 

1  tablcspoonful  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  white  si 
1  onioD,  minced  small. 

Put  on  the  water  with  the 
minutes.  Put  in  the  onion,  b< 
cut  iuto  shreds,  potatoes,  peppei 
must  first  bo  cut  into  joints  « 
wat«r  to  draw  out  the  blood.  C 
and  a  half  hours  very  slowly,  at 
bottom.  Then  add  the  tomato 
hour  longer.  Ten  minutes  bef 
fire  add  the  butter,  cut  into  I 
rolled  in  flour.  Give  a  final  b 
seasoned  to  your  liking,  and  tu 
ia  eal^i  from  soup-plates.  Chi 
for  squirrels. 

RAQofrr  OP  Sq 

Skin,  clean,  and  quarter  a  pa 
and  soak  in  salt  and  water  to  d 
an  onion  and  fry  brown  in  a 
Stir  into  the  &ying-pan  five  t 


(18,  EAftTfilDOES,  QUAILS,  STO.  161 

en  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  browned 
iquirreU  iDto  s  saucepan,  with  a  quarter 
icon  cut  into  slips ;  season  with  pepper 
add  the  onion  and  gravy,  aad  half  a 
iter.  Cover  and  stew  for  forty  minutes, 
our  in  a  glass  of  wine  and  the  juice  of 
ke  around  well,  and  turn  into  a  deep 

Broiled  Squirreia 
to  draw  out  the  blood.  Wipe  dry  and 
clear  fire,  turning  often.  When  done, 
xiid  anoint  with  melted  butter,  seaaoned 
salt.  Use  at  least  a  tablespoonful  for 
let  it  lie  between  two  hot  dishes  fire 
iding  to  table. 


PARTRIDGES,  QUAIIfi,  GROUSE, 

ETC. 
ant  is  never  sold  in  American  marketa. 
s  such  at  the  South  is  called  a  partridge 
is,  properly  speaking,  the  ruffled  grouse. 
il  is  the  English  and  Southern  partridge. 
ught  by  the  hundred  dozen  from  the  Far 
;ities,  and  generally  Styled  prairie-fowls, 
ouse.  The  mode  of  cooking  all  these  is 
lame. 

R0A8T.  r 

d  stuff  as  you  do  chickens;  roast  at  a 
e  with  butter  and  water  until  brown ; 
,  dredge  lightly  at  the  last  with  flour  to 
d  serve  hot.  Thicken  the  gravy  with 
il  up,  and  serve  in  a  boat    Wash  the 


162  OrafXeif  8BN8K. 

inside  of  nil  game — prairie-fowls  in  particular — i 
and  water,  rinaiag  out  carefully  afterward  with  i 

Broiled. 
CleaD,  wash,  aud  split  down  the  back.  La] 
water  half  an  hour.  Wipe  careAilly,  seasoD  wilt: 
pepper,  and  broil  on  a  gridiron  over  a  bright  firt 
done,  lay  in  a  hot  dish,  butter  on  both  sides  ' 
serve  at  once. 

Broiled  quails  are  delicious  and  nourishing  fai 
valids. 

Gkouse  boasted  with  Bacon.  >{« 
Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  as  usual.  Cover  the  ei 
with  thin  slices  of  corned  ham  or  pork,  biadiD) 
buttered  pack-thread.  Roast  three-quarters  of 
basting  with  butter  and  water  three  times,  then 
dripping.  When  quite  done,  dish  with  the  I 
about  the  body  of  the  bird.  Skim  the  gravy 
with  browned  flour,  season  with  pepper  and  the  _ 
lemon.     Boil  up  once. 

Quails  roasted  with  Ham.  <^ 
"  '  as  with  the  grouse,  but  cover  the  ban 
it  of  white  paper,  having  secured  the 
pack-thread.  Stitch  the  papers  on, : 
basted  with  butter  and  water,  that  1 
Roast  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  if  t 
move  the  papers  and  meat  before  m 
brown  quickly.  Thia  is  the  nices 
ails. 

Salui  of  Game. 
roast  partridges,  grouse,  or  quails  in 
de  while  you  prepare  the  gravy.     Thu 
es,  dressing,  skin,  and  general  odda  s 
lave  seleoted  the  neatest  pieces  of  t 


£AJn«,  fABTBlMtt,  dtlAtU,  ETC  l6ft 

i  ecnipfl — into  »  saucepao,  with  ooe  eni&ll 
Bod  a  bunch  of  sweet  herba ;  pour  in  &  pint 
wbatever  gravj  jou  may  have,  and  stew, 
I,  for  nearly  an  hour.  A  few  bits  of  pork 
)d  if  yoa  have  no  gravj.  Skim  and  ttrain, 
fire,  and  add  a  little  brown  Sherry  ajid 
th  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  ;  thicken  with  brown 
iffing  has  not  thickened  it  aufficiently,  boil 
ver  the  reserved  meat,  wbieh  should  be  put 
ucepan.  Warm  until  all  is  Bmokiug-hot,  but 
)oiI.  Arrange  the  pieces  of  bird  in  a  aym- 
upoD  a  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  them. 

Gamb  Pie— (  Very  fine). 
e  made  of  any  of  the  birds  named  in  the 
ipte.  Grouse  and  qu^ls  together  make  a 
istmas  pie.  Clean  and  wash  the  birds ;  cut 
half,  the  grouse  into  four  pieces.  Trim  off 
Ferior  portjons,  necks,  lower  ribs,  etc.,  and 
I  the  giblets  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  pint 
rater,  if  your  pie  requires  six  birds.  While 
make  a  good  puff-paste  and  line  a  large 
reserving  enough  fur  a  lid  half  an  inch 
the  livers  are  tender,  take  them  out,  leav- 
to  st«w  in  the  covered  saucepan.  Lard  the 
jirds  with  tiny  strips  of  salt  pork,  and  mince 
cefl  of  the  same  vith  the  livers,  a  bunch  of 
marjoram,  and  thyme,  also  chopped  fine, 
.  lemon,  pepper,  and  a  very  small  shallot, 
meat  of  this,  with  bread-crumbs  moistened 
Ik.  Put  some  thin  strips  of  cold  corned 
ham  in  the  bottom  of  the  pie,  next  to  the 
a  these  pieces  of  the  bird,  peppered  and 
a  lajOT  sf  the  forM-meat,  aad  s»  on,  until 


164  COHKOll 

you  are  ready  for  the  grav| 
fire,  and  Beaeon  with  pepper 
to  a  bull,  pour  iato  the  pit 
cruet,  cuttiug  a  slit  iu  the  mi< 
leaves,  arranged  in  a  wreath 
middle  a  pastry  bird,  with  e 
it  Thia  last  should  be  baked 
the  pie  is  done,  to  cover  the  ] 
Bake  three  hours  if  your 
paper  if  it  threaten  to  brown 

QUAIl 

Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  th 
with  a  penknife,  but  do  not  e< 
for  ten  minutes,  white  you  pi 
deep  dish  with  this ;  put  iu  tl 
pork  or  ham  ;  next,  a  layer  c 
and  peppered ;  theo  the  bird 
minced  parsley.  Squeeze  sc 
and  lay  upon  the  breasts  piei 
Cover  with  slices  of  ^g,  the 
some  of  the  gravy  in  which  tl 
put  on  the  lid,  leaving  a  holi 

Wild  Piqeon 
Clean  and  wash  very  car 
water  for  an  hour.  Rinse  th 
shaking  it  well  about  in  th« 
water  and  stuff  with  a  force 
and  chopped  salt  pork,  seasor 
birds,  and  put  on  to  stew  in 
them,  and  allow  to  each  a  fa 
narrow  etrips.  Season  with  p 
Boil  slowly  in  a  eovered  lauo 


WILD  DUCES.  165 

the  gravy  and  lay  iu  a  covered  dish  to  keep  warm. 
Strain  the  gravy,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  currant  jelly,  thickening  with  browned  flour. 
Boil  up  and  pour  over  the  pigeons. 

Wild-Pigeon  Pie.>J< 

This  is  made  precisely  as  is  quail  pie,  except  that  the 
pigeons  are  cut  into  four  pieces  each,  and  not  stuffed. 
Parboil  and  lay  in  the  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  the 
bacon  and  boiled  eggs.  Make  the  gravy  richer  than  for 
the  quails,  by  the  addition  of  a  good  lump  of  butter, 
rolled  in  flour,  stirred  in  and  boiled  up  to  thicken  before 
you  put  it  on  the  fire.  Wild  pigeons  are  usually  tougher 
and  leaner  than  the  tame. 


WILD    DUCKS. 

Nearly  all  wild  ducks  are  liable  to  h^vvs  a  ii^Aj  flavor, 

and  when  handled  by  inexperienced  coolo:,  are  sometimes 

uneatable  from  this  cause.     Before  roasting  then},  guard 

against  this  by  parboiling  them  with  a  small  c^irrot,  peeled, 

put  within  each.     This  will  absorb  the  unpleasant  taste. 

An  onion  will  have  the  same  effect ,  but,  unless  you  mean 

to  use  onion  in  the  stufiiug,  the  carrot  is  preferable.     In 

my  own  kitchen  I  usually  put  iu  the  onion,  considering  a 

suspicion  of  garlic  a  desideratum  in  roast  duck,  whether 

wild  or  tame. 

Roast  Duck.    (Wild.) 

Parboil  as  above  directed;  throw  away  the  carrot  or 
onion,  lay  in  fresh  water  half  an  hour ;  stuff  with  bread- 
crumbs seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  sage,  and  o/iion,  and 
roast  until  brown  and  tender,  basting  for  half  the  time 
with  butter  and  water,  then  with  the  drippings  Add  to 
the  gravy,  when  you  have  taken  up  the  duoks^  a  table- 


166  OOMMON  dEK^E. 

spoonful   of   curraDt  jelly,  and   a    pinch  of  cajenxm. 
Thicken  with  browned  flour  and  serve  in  a  tureen. 

Wild  Ducks.    (Stewed,)  ^ 

Parboil  ten  minutes,  when  you  have  drawn  them,  and 
put  in  a  raw  carrot  or  onion.  Lay  in  very  cold  water  half 
an  hour.  Cut  into  joints,  pepper,  salt,  and  flour  them. 
Have  ready  some  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  fry  them  a 
light  brown.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan  and  cover  with 
gravy  made  olf  the  giblets,  necks,  and  some  bits  of  lean 
veal.  Add  a  minced  shallot,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  salt, 
and  pepper.  Cover  closely  and  stew  half  an  hour,  or 
until  tender.  Take  out  the  duck,  strain  the  gravy  when 
you  have  skimmed  it ;  put  in  a  half-cup  of  cream  or  rich 
milk  in  which  an  egg  has  been  beaten,  thicken  with 
browned  flour,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  wine  and  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  beaten  in  gradually  not  to  curdle  the 
cream ;  boil  up  and  pour  over  the  ducks.  This  is  about 
the  best  way  of  cooking  wild  ducks. 


WILD   TURKEY. 

This  stately  stalker  of  Southern  forests  and  Western 
prairies  is  eagerly  sought  after  by  the  lovers  of  good 
eating  in  those  regions.  The  dark  meat  and  game  flavor 
proclaim  his  birthright  of  lordly  freedom  as  truly  after  he 
is  slain  and  cooked,  as  did  his  lithe  grace  of  figure,  lofty 
carriage,  and  bright  eye  while  he  trod  his  native  wilds.  I 
have  heard  sportsmen  declare  that  when  they  have  invei- 
gled him  up  to  a  blind  by  imitating  the  call  of  his  harem 
or  younglings,  they  have  stood  in  covert,  gun  at  shoulder 
and  finger  on  the  trigger,  spell-bound  by  pitying  admira- 
tion of  his  beauty.  But  I  have  never  seen  that  sensibility 
curbed  appetite  whik  they  told  the  story  at  the  table 


flMALL  BIBD8.  167 

adorned  by  the  royal  bird ;  have  noted,  indeed,  that  their 
mouths  watered  rather  than  their  eyes,  as  he  crumbled, 
like  a  dissolving  view,  under  the  blade  of  the  carver. 

Draw  and  wash  the  inside  very  carefully,  as  with  all 
game.  Domestic  fowls  are,  or  should  be,  kept  up  without 
eating  for  at  least  twelve  hours  before  they  are  killed;  but 
we  must  shoot  wild  when  we  can  get  the  chance,  and 
of  course  it  often  happens  that  their  crops  are  distended 
by  a  recent  hearty  meal  of  rank  or  green  food.  Wipe  the 
cavity  with  a  dry  soft  doth  before  you  stuff. '  Have  a  rich 
force-meat,  bread-crumbs,  some  bits  of  fat  pork,  chopped 
fine,  pepper,  and  salt  Beat  in  an  egg  and  a  couple  of 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Baste  with  butter  and 
water  for  the  first *hour,  then  three  or  four  times  with  the 
gravy ;  lastly,  five  or  six  times  with  melted  butter.  A 
generous  and  able  housekeeper  told  me  once  that  she 
always  allowed  a  pound  of  butter  for  basting  a  large  wild 
turkey.  This  was  an  extravagant  quantity,  but  the  meat 
is  drier  than  that  of  the  domestic  fowl,  and  not  nearly  so 
fiit  Dredge  with  flour  at  the  last,  froth  with  butter,  and 
when  he  is  of  a  tempting  brown,  serve.  Skim  the  gravy, 
add  a  little  hot  water,  pepper,  thicken  with  the  giblets 
chopped  fine  and  browned  flour,  boil  up,  and  pour  into  a 
tareen.  At  the  South  the  giblets  are  not  put  in  the 
gravy,  but  laid  whole,  one  under  each  wing,  when  the 
turkey  is  dished.  Qamish  with  small  fried  sausages,  not 
larger  than  a  dollar,  crisped  parsley  between  them. 

Send  around  currant  jelly  and  cranberry  sauce  with  it 


SMALL  BIRDS. 

Roast  Snipe  or  Plovers. 

Clean  and  truss,  but  do  not  stuff.     Lay  in  rows  in  the 
dripping-pan,  or  tie  upon  a  spit,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 


168 


OOMMOK  8EHBB. 


baste  well  with  butter,  then  with  butter  and  water.    When 

they  begin  to  brown,  which  will  be  in  about  ten  minutes, 

cut  as  many  rounds  of  bread  (without  crust)  as  there  are 

birds.    Toast  quickly,  butter,  and  lay  in  the  dripping-pan, 

a  bird  upon  each.     When  the  birds  are  done,  serve  upon 

the  toast,  with  the  gravy  poured  over  it.     The  toast  should 

lie  under  them  while  cooking  at  least  five  minutes,  during 

which  time  the  birds  should  be  basted  with  melted  butter 

seasoned  with  pepper. 

The    largest  snipe  will    not    require    above    twenty 

minutes  to  roast. 

Woodcock. 

This  is  the  most  delicious  of  small  birds,  and  may  be 

either  roasted  or  broiled. 

Road, 

The  English  do  not  draw  woodcock,  regarding  the  traU 
as  a  bonne  bouche,  and  I  have  known  American  house- 
keepers who  copied  them  in  this  respect  In  thb  case 
roast  precisely  as  you  would  snipe  or  plover,  only  putting 
the  toast  under  the  birds  so  soon  as  they  begin  to  cook,  to 
catch  the  trail. 

To  my  taste,  a  better,  and  certainly  to  common  sense 

people  a  less  objectionable  plan,  is  to  fill  the  birds  with  a 

rich  force-meat  of  bread-crumbs,  peppered   and  salted, 

shortened  with  melted  butter.     Sew  them  up  and  roast, 

basting  with  butter  and  water,  from  twenty  minutes  to 

half  an  hour.     When  half  done,  put  circular  slices  of 

buttered  toast  beneath,  and  serve  upon  these  when  you 

take  them  up. 

Broiled. 

Split  down  the  back,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  Butter, 
pepper,  and  salt  when  done,  and  let  them  lie  between  two 
hot  dishes  for  five  minutes  before  sending  to  table.  Small 
snipe  are  nice  broiled  in  this  way  ;  also  robins  and  dovea 


SMALL  BIRDS. 


169 


Salmi  of  Woodcock  ob  Snipe. 

Clean  and  balf-roast  the  birds;  cut  in  quarters,  and 
put  in  a  saucepan  with  gravy  made  of  the  giblets,  necks, 
and  some  bits  of  fat  pork,  stewed  in  a  little  water.  Add 
a  minced  button  onion,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and 
stew  fifteen  minutes  or  until  tender,  closely  covered.  Take 
out  the  birds,  and  pile  neatly  upon  buttered  toast  in  a 
chafing-dish.  Strain  the  gravy  and  return  to  the  fire, 
adding  some  small  pieces  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  little  wine.  Boil  up,  and  pour 
over  the  salmL 


Ortolans,  Reed-Birds,  Rail,  and  Sora 

may  be  roasted  or  broiled.  A  good  way  is  to  roll  an  oyster 
in  melted  butter,  then  in  bread-crumbs  seasoned  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  put  into  each  bird  before  roasting. 
Baste  with  butter  and  water  three  timegs,  put  the  rounds 
of  toast  underneath,  and  baste  freely  with  melted  butter. 
They  will  require  about  twenty  minutes  to  cook,  and  will 
be  found  delicious. 

To  Keep  Game  from  Tainting. 

Draw  so  soon  as  they  come  into  your  possession ;  rinse 
with  soda  and  water,  then  with  pure  cold  water ;  wipe  dry, 
and  rub  them  lightly  with  a  mixture  of  fine  salt  and 
black  pepper.  If  you  must  keep  them  some  time,  put  in 
'  the  cavity  of  each  fowl  a  piece  of  charcoal ;  hang  them 
in  a  cool,  dark  place,  with  a  cloth  thrown  over  them. 
Small  birds,  unless  there  are  too  many  of  them,  may  be 
kept  in  a  refrigerator  after  you  have  drawn,  washed,  and 
wiped  them. 

The  charcoal  is  an  admirable  preventive  of  decompo- 
sition. 
8 


SAUCES  FOE  MEAT  J 
Theee  are  no  longer  the  appendag 
bill  of  fare  only.  A  general  know 
as  well  as  the  more  expensive  onee  i 
and  sold  here  at  high  prices,  is  a  pa 
housekeeper's  culinary  education.  I 
to  serve  a  fish  sauce  vith  game,  or 
immense  number  of  rec^pts  which 
examiaed,  I  hare  selected  comparat 
I  consider  "representative"  articles, 
wife  is  at  liberty,  as  I  said  before 
and  improve  upon  them. 

First,  par  excellence,  as  the  most  ii 
it  is  the  groundwork  of  many  othen 
Melted  or  Dkawn 
No.  1. 
2  teaspoonfuls  flour 
It  ounce  butter. 

1  teacupful  hot  wate 
A  little  salt. 

Put  the  flour  and  salt  in  a  bowl 
time  of  the  water  or  milk,  working  i 
go  OD.  Put  into  a  tin  cup  or  saucep 
of  boiling  water.  As  it  warms,  stir, 
a  minute  or  more,  add  the  butter  b; 
the  time  until  it  is  en^rely  melted  ■ 
the  flour  and  water.     Boil  one  mine 

Mix  with  milk  when  you  wish 
with  water  for  meats  and  fish. 
No.  2. 
n  teaspoonful  of  flc 

2  ounces  butter. 

1  teacupful  (small) 


FOB  KBAT  Aire   FISH.  I7t 

I  thin  smooth  pastt  wilJt  cold  mter, 
which  should  be  io  the  inner  tcmoI 
le  butter  bj  degioM,  «od  stir  until 
s  minute. 

No.  3. 
icea  butter, 
pint  water  (hot). 
Ueu  em;. 

ping  teaspoonful  flour, 
smooth  paste  vith  a  little  cold  milk, 
iter  in  the  inner  vessel,  stirring  until 
lie  beaten  egg  la  a  cup.  Take  a  teo- 
ire  from  the  fire,  and  beat  with  this 
ber,  and  still  another.  @et  aside  the 
,  and  Btir  the  butter  into  the  con- 
luccpan  gradually,  until  4boroughlj' 
beaten  egg  in  the  same  vaj.  There 
ig  the  egg,  if  it  be  treated  as  I  have 

Eqq  Sauce,  'i* 

d-boiled  eggs- 

od  teacupful  drawn  butter. 

tie  salt 

ily  of  the  ti^a  very  fine,  and  beat 

itter,  salting  to  taste. 

liled  fowls  and  boiled  fish.     For  the 

ome  minced  parsley;  for  the  latter, 

re,  or  nasturtium  seed.     For  boiled 

linced  fine. 

Or, 
I,  and  beat  up  twe  raw  ones  very 
be  drawn  butter  inaUad,  as  directed 


179  OOHMON  RE1I8V. 

in  No.  3.  For  boiled  beef  or  chicken,  you  may  make  the 
dr»wn  butter  of  hot  liquor  taken  from  the  pot  in  which 
IV  meat  is  cooking,  having  fiist  carefully  skimmed  it 

Sauob  fob  Boiled  or  Baked  Fish. 

4  ounces  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  flour. 

2  anchovies. 

1  teaspoonful  chopped*  capers,  or  nasturtium  seed, 

or  green  pickle. 
1  shallot 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
1  tablespoonful  vinegar. 
1  teacupful  hot  water. 

Put  the  water  into  the  inner  saucepan,  chop  the  ancho- 
ir^ds  and  shallot,  and  put  in  with  the  pepper  and  salt  Boil 
two  minuter,  and  strain  back  into  the  saucepan  when  you 
have  rinsed  with  hot  water.  Now  add  the  flour  wet 
smooth  with  cold  water,  and  stir  until  it  thickens ;  put  in 
the  butter  by  degrees,  and  when  it  is  thoroughly  melted 
and  mixed,  the  vinegar ;  lastly,  the  capers  and  a  little 
nutmeg. 

White  Sauce  for  Fish.  >J< 

Make  drawn  butter  by  receipt  No.  2,  but  with  double 
the  quantity  of  flour,  and  use,  instead  of  water,  the  liquor 
m  which  the  fish  was  boiled.  Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk,  in  which  a  shallot  and  a  head  of  celery  or  a  pinch 
of  celery-seed  has  been  boiled,  then  strained  out.  Boil 
one  minute,  and  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 

Oyster  Sauce.  >J< 

1  pint  oysters. 
Half  a  lemon. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 


ive  minutefl,  and 
the  liquor  and 
the  flour  when 
.  well  in ;  put  in 
ke  itj,  boil  one 
a  it  around  well. 


It  all ;  make  the 
iuts  just  named' 
lu  do  the  butter; 
n.  Some  put  in 
sauce  is  hand- 

•„  cod,  and  other 
meats  generally- 


stir  in  the  milk, 
fine,  season  with 
lie  drawn  butter. 

above,  with  the 
land  the  juice  of 


174  OOICMOU  eBBSB. 

Anchovy  Saucb. 

6  anchovies. 

A  teacupful  drawn  butter. 

A  wine-glass  pale  Sherrj. 

Soak  the  anchovies  in  cold  water  two  hours ;  pull  them 
to  pieces,  and  simmer  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them 
tor  iialf  an  hour.  Strain  the  liquor  into  the  drawn  butter 
(No.  3j,  boil  a  minute,  add  the  wine ;  heat  gradually  to  a 
boil,  and  stew  five  minutes  longer.  You  may  substitute 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  anchovy  paste  for  the  little  fish  them- 
selves. 

Serve  with  boiled  fish. 

Sauce  for  LoBSTERflb 

5  tablespoonftils  fresh  butter. 
Teacupful  vinegar. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  with  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  white  sugar. 
1  teaspoon ful  made  mustard. 
Minced  parsley. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  adding  gradually  the  vine- 
gar, salt,  and  pepper.  Boil  a  bunch  of  parsley  five 
minutes,  chop  small ;  beat  into  the  butter ;  lastly  the  sugar 
and  mustard.    The  butter  must  be  light  as  whipped  egg. 

Bread  Sauce. 

1  pint  milk. 

1  cup  bread-crumbs  (very  fine). 

1  onion,  sliced. 

A  pinch  of  mace. 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

Simmer  the  sliced  onion  in  the  milk  until  tender ;  strain 


ma.  179 

ba,  which  should 
k  half  an  hour ; 
ifi  season  Id  g.  and 
rve  in  a  tureen- 
more  butter, 
people  add  some 
t  straming  it  and 


ne  of  butter. 
;  drain,  and  cut 
)  gravy  from  the 
the  butter,  Bait, 
beat  until  it  is 
I  boiling,  Btirring 
a  prefer,  pour  it 


rater  from  'liem, 
I  in  a  saucepan ; 
d  pepper.     Boil 

good,  make  nice 
e  mashed  onion 


176 


COMMON  8BIIIBE. 


into  it ;  add  a  teacupful  of  cream  or  new  milk  i  seaaoD, 
boil  up,  and  serve. 

MaItrb  d'Hotel  Sauce.  ^< 

1  teacupful  drawn  butter. 
1  teaapoonful  minced  parsley. 
1  lemon. 
Cayenne  and  salt  to  taste. 

Draw  the  butter  (No.  2)  ;  boil  the  parsley  three  min- 
utes ;  take  it  out  and  lay  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  to 
cool ;  chop  and  stir  into  the  butter ;  squeeze  in  the  lemon- 
juice,  the  pepper  and  salt ;  beat  hard  with  an  egg-whip, 
return  to  the  fire,  and  boil  up  once. 

This  is  a  "  stock  "  t»auGe,  being  suitable  for  many  dishes, 
roast  or  boiled. 

Mint  Sauce  fob  Boast  Lamb. 

2  tablespoonfuls  green  mint,  chopped  fine, 
1  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar. 
Half  a  teacupful  cider  vinegar. 

Chop  the  mint,  put  the  sugar  and  vinegar  in  a  sauce 
boat,  and  stir  in  the  mint.  Let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place 
fifteen  minutes  before  sending  to  table. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

1  teacupful  young  mushrooms. 
4  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
1  teacupful  cream  or  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  flour. 
Nutmeg,  mace,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Stew  the  mushrooms  in  barely  enough  water  to  cover 
them  until  tender.  Drain,  but  do  not  press  them,  and  add 
the  cream,  butter,  and  seasoning.  Stew  over  a  bright  fire, 
stirring  all  the  while  until  it  begins  to  thicken.    Add  the 


177 

boot,  or 


en  about 
eacQpful 
d  mince, 
mincing 
of  water 
ut  in  the 
—coating 
US. 
beef  and 


r.  Dmn 
:ter,  with 
gOH,  and 
:termust 
spanguf 


178 


ooicKOir  sQvs^. 


heads.    Thb  aooompaaies  boilM  fowls,  stewed  fiUet  ol 
veal,  or  boiled  mutton. 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  some  ripe  tart  apples,  stew  in 
water  enough  to  cover  them  until  they  break  to  pieces. 
Beat  up  to  a  smooth  pulp,  stir  in  a  good  lump  of  butter, 
and  sugar  to  taste. 

Apple  sauce  is  the  invariable  accompaniment  of  roast 
pork — or  fresh  pork  cooked  in  any  way.  If  you  wish, 
you  can  add  a  little  nutmeg. 

Peach  Saucb. 
Soak  a  quart  of  dried  peaches  in  water  four  hours- 
Wash  them,  rubbing  them  against  one  another  by  stirring 
around  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Drain,  and  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Stew 
until  they  break  to  pieces.  Rub  to  a  soft  smooth  pulp, 
sweeten  to  taste  with  white  sugar.  Send  to  table  cold, 
with  roast  game  or  other  meats. 

Cranberby  Sauce. 
Wash  and  pick  a  quart  of  ripe  cranberries,  and  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  teacupful  of  water.  Stew  slowly, 
stirring  often  until  they  are  thick  as  marmalade.  They 
require  at  least  an  hour  and  a  half  to  cook.  When  you 
take  them  from  the  fire,  sweeten  abundantly  with  white 
sugar.  If  sweetened  while  cooking,  the  color  will  bo  bad. 
Put  them  into  a  mould  and  set  aside  to  get  cold. 

And  this  is  a  nicer  plan-<^train  the  pulp  through  a  cul- 
lender or  sieve,  or  coarse  moequit»*net,  into  a  mould  wet 
with  cold  water.    When  firm,  turn  iuto  a  glass  dish  or 
salver.    Be  sure  that  it  is  sweet  enough. 
Eat  with  roast  turkey,  game,  and  roast  ducks. 


>ye,  or  in  a  very 
■egins  to  color. 

Id  minutee,  and 
Shake  up  every 
ling. 


pan,  and  ton  it 
)nna.  Dredge 
1  batter  until  it 
,  Buch  as  brown 
3d  fiflh  and  fiah- 
;ar,  a  vary  little 


try  or  Tarragon 


iste  ;    add  salt, 
1  together  tbo- 


180  OOMMOV  8EN8B. 

roughly,  wetting  little  by  little  with  the  vin^ar  until  you 
can  beat  it  as  you  do  cake-batter.  Beat  five  minutes  very 
hard ;  put  into  wide-mouthed  bottles — empty  French 
mustard  bottles,  if  you  have  them — pour  a  little  oil  on 
top,  cork  tightly,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  It  will 
be  mellow  enough  for  use  in  a  couple  of  days. 

Having  used  this  mustard  for  years  in  my  own  family^ 
I  can  safely  advise  my  friends  to  undertake  the  trifling 
labor  of  preparing  it  in  consideration  of  the  satisfaction 
to  be  derived  from  the  condiment.  I  mix  in  a  Wedgewood 
mortar,  with  pestle  of  the  same ;  but  a  bowl  is  nearly  aa 
good.    It  will  keep  for  weeks. 

Horse-radish. 
Scrape  or  grind,  cover  with  vinegar,  and  keep  in  wide- 
mouthed  bottles.    To  eat  with  roast  beef  and  cold  meats. 

Walnut  Catsup. 
Choose  young  walnuts  tender  enough  to  be  pierced  with 
a  pin  or  needle,  Prick  them  in  several  places,  and  lay  in 
a  jar  with  a  handful  of  salt  to  every  twenty-five,  and 
water  enough  to  cover  them.  Break  them  with  a  billet  of 
wood  or  wooden  beetle,  and  let  them  lie  in  the  pickle  a 
fortnight,  stirring  twice  a  day.  Drain  off  the  liquor  into 
a  saucepan,  and  cover  the  shells  with  boiling  vinegar  to 
extract  what  juice  remains  in  them.  Crush  to  a  pulp 
and  strain  through  a  cullender  into  the  saucepan.  Allow 
for  every  quart  an  ounce  of  fdlack  pepper  and  one  of 
ginger,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves  and  half  an  ounce  of  nut- 
meg, beaten  fine.  Put  in  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  a  shallot 
minced  fine  for  every  hvo  quarts,  and  a  thimbleful  of 
celery-seed  tied  in  a  bag  for  the  same  quantity.  Boil  all 
together  for  an  hour,  if  there  be  a  gallon  of  the  mixture. 
Bottle  when  cold,  putting  an  equal  quantity  of  the  spice 
in  each  flask.    Butternuts  make  delightful  catsup. 


LED   VIHEO&BS. 


I  alternate  layers  of  miuh- 
loure,  then  break  into  bits, 
stirring  thoroughly  every 
ben  you  have  strained  it) 
ounce  ofallspice,  the  same 
ouful  of  powdered  mace,  a 
a  stone  jar,  cover  closely, 
er  over  the  fire,  and  boil 
npty  into  a  porcelain  ket- 
:  longer.  Let  it  stand  all 
tied  and  clear.  Pour  off 
1  bottle,  filling  the  flasks 
I  melted  rosin,  and  tie  up 

■all,  aa  it  soon  spoils  when 

IBSHCRB  SaDOB. 

per. 

tomato  catsup  (struned 


cloves. 

Put  in  a  stone  jar,  set  in 
until  the  liquid  is  so  hot 
it.  Strain,  and  let  it  stand 
iiys,  then  bottle  for  use. 


Otbtbb  Cyt 

1  quart  OTBtera. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  teaspooHful  cayenne  pepp 

1  teocupful  cider  vinegar. 

1  "  sherry. 
Chop  the  oysters  and  boil  ii 
teacupful  of  vinegar,  fikimming 
three  minutes,  strain  through 
liquor  to  the  fire,  add  the  win 
Boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  when  < 
the  corks- 

TOMATO  Ca] 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes. 

1  ounce  salt. 

1      "      mace. 

1  tablespoonfiil  black  pepp 

1  teospoonful  cayenne. 

1  tablespoonful  cloves  (pov 

7  "        ground  musU 

1  "        celery  seed  (t 

Cut  a  Blit  in  the  tomatoes,  pu 
oelain  kettle,  and  boil  untjl  the 
the  pulp  dissolved.  Strain  and 
then  through  a  hair  sieve.  R< 
seasoning,  and  boil  at  leatA  five 
for  the  last  hour,  and  frequently 
on  the  fire.  Let  it  stand  twelve 
the  cellar  floor.  When  colil,  ad< 
Take  out  the  bag  of  celery  see 
corks.     Keep  in  a  dark,  cool  pli 

Tomato  and  walnut  are  the  m 


AVOBBD  VINEOAEa.  183 

ther  is  in  iteclf  a  fine  aauce  for 


»  Catsup. 

;mons. 

i  white  mustard-seed. 

turmeric. 

white  pepper. 

lace. 

•sjetiDe. 

s  white  sugar. 

grated  hone-radish. 
id  fine. 


lemons;  pound  or  grind  the 
er,  including  the  hor.-e-radish, 
idd   the  lemon  juice,  and  let  it 

place.  Boil  in  a  porcelain  ket- 
into  a  covered  vessel — china  or 
rtnight,  stirring  well  every  day. 

a. 

or  fish  sauces,  fish  soups,  and 
DT*'  CATaup.    ^E" 

loaked,  and  pulled  to  pieces, 
and  minced. 

dt. 
sugar. 


184  CX>MMON  8ENBB. 

3  tablespoonfuls  >vhole  black  pepper- 
2  **  ground  ginger. 

1  "  cayenne. 

1  quart  mushrooms,  minced,  or 

1  "     ripe  tomatoes,  sliced. 

Put  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  boil  slowly  four  hours, 
or  until  the  mixture  is  reduced  to  one-half  the  original 
quantity.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Do  not  bottle 
until  next  day.  Fill  the  flasks  to  the  top,  and  dip  the 
corks  in  beeswax  and  rosin. 

This  catsup  will  keep  for  years.  Mixed  with  drawn 
butter,  it  is  used  as  a  sauce  for  boiled  fish,  but  is  a  fine 
flavoring  essence  for  gravies  of  almost  any  kind. 

A  Good  Store  Sauce. 

2  tablespoonfuls  horse-radish  (grated). 

1  **  allspice. 
A  grated  nutmeg. 

3  large  pickled  onions  (minced  fine). 

2  dozen  whole  black  peppers. 
A  pinch  of  cayenne. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  *•  white  sugar. 

1  quart  vinegar  from  walnut  or  butternut  pickle. 

Mix  all  the  spices  well  together;  crush  in  a  stone  jar 
with  a  potato-beetle  or  billet  of  wood ;  pour  the  vinegar 
upon  these,  and  let  it  stand  two  weeks.  Put  on  in  a  por- 
celain or  clean  bell-metal  kettle  and  heat  to  boiling;  strain 
and  set  aside  until  next  day  to  cool  and  settle.  Bottle 
and  cork  very  tightly.  It  is  an  excellent  seasoning  for 
any  kind  of  gravy,  sauce,  or  stew. 

Mock  Capers.  *J< 
Gather  green  nasturtium  seed  when  they  are  full-grown. 


J 


ED  TnrEOAJts.  185 

the  bud;  put  into  Binall 
ar  with  boiling  vinegar, 
irk  closely.  In  six  weeks 
ve  au  agreeable  taate  to 
;ef  and  mutton. 


of  celeiy  seed. 


Bugar. 

tB,  or  poor  the  seed  into 
;ar-.  and  pour  over  the 
i,  and  pat  away  in  one 
rtnight  stiun  and  bottle 


te  sugar. 

r. 

salt,  and  let  them  stand 

legar  in  which  the  sugar 

onionB;  put  in  ajar,  tie 

ighc.     Strain  and  bottle. 


pulled  top 


186  OOMMON  8EN8B. 

A  pinch  of  gioger. 

2  tablespoonfulfl  white  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  tablespoonful  whole  peppers. 

Scald  the  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  berries,  which 
must  be  picked  from  the  stalks  and  put  into  a  large  stone 
jar.  Cover  with  a  pane  of  glass,  and  set  in  the  hot  sun 
two  dajs.  Strain  off  the  liquor,  and  boil  up  with  the 
other  ingredients,  stirring  often,  one  hour,  keeping  covered 
unless  while  stirring.     Let  it  cool;  strain  and  bottle. 

This  is  used  for  flavoring  brown  gravies,  soups,  and 
ragotlts,  and,  stirred  into  browned  butter,  makes  a  good 
piquant  sauce  for  broiled  or  baked  fish. 

Pepper  Vinegar. 

6  pods  red  peppers  broken  up. 
3  dozen  black  pepper-corns. 
2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 
1  quart  of  best  vinegar. 

Scald  the  vinegar  in  which  the  sugar  has  been  dissolved ; 
pour  over  the  pepper,  put  into  a  jar,  and  steep  a  fortnight. 
Strain  and  bottle. 

This  is  eaten  with  boiled  fish  and  raw  oysters,  and  is 
useful  in  the  preparation  of  salads. 

Horse-radish  Vinegar. 

6  tablespoonfuls  scraped  or  grated  horse-radish. 
1  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 
1  quart  vinegar. 

Scald  the  vinegar;  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  horse- 
radish.   Steep  a  week,  strain  and  bottle. 


at  u  rated  with 
re  the  vinegar 
tt  there  never 
ific  gravity  of 
e  than  useful 
alt  should  not 
'  which  meanB 
the  salad." — 

perfect  Ealad, 
\  for  vinegar, 
he  ingredients 


kult. 


BOU], 


188  COBCMOK  SfiirSB. 

At  least  twentj-five  years  ago  I  pasted  the  above  dog- 
gerel in  my  scrap-book,  and  committed  it  to  memory. 
The  first  salad  I  was  ever  trusted  to  compound  was  dressed 
in  strict  obedience  to  the  directions  of  the  witty  divine, 
and  to  this  day  these  seem  to  me  pertinent  and  worthy  of 
note.  The  anchovy  sauce  can  be  omitted  if  yon  like,  and 
a  spoonful  of  Harvey's  or  \yorcester8hire  substituted. 
This  is  best  suited  for  chicken  or  turkey  salad. 

Lobster  Salad.    >f< 

Pick  out  every  bit  of  the  meat  from  the  body  and  claws  of 
a  cold  boiled  lobster.  Lay  aside  the  coral  for  the  dress- 
ing, and  mince  the  rest.  For  the  dressing  you  will 
need — 

4  eggs,  boiled  hard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil. 

1  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 

1  "  salt 

2  "         white  sugar. 

i  "         cayenne  pepper.     Vinegar  at  diseretunK 

1  "         of  Harvey's,  Worcestershire,  or  anchovy 

sauce. 

Rub  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a  mortar  or  bowl, 
with  a  Wedgewood  pestle,  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon,  until 
perfeetiy  free  from  lumps.  Add  gradually,  rubbing  all  the 
while,  the  other  ingredients,  the  coral  last.  This  should 
have  been  worked  well  upon  a  plate  with  a  silver  knife  or 
wooden  spatula.  Proceed  slowly  and  carefully  in  the 
work  of  amalgamating  the  various  ingredients,  moistening 
with  vinegar  as  they  stiffen.  Increase  the  quantity  of 
this  as  the  mixture  grows  smooth,  until  it  is  thin  enough 
to  pour  over  the  minced  lobster.  You  will  need  ateacupful 
at  least.     Toss  with  a  silver  fork  and  do  not  break  the 


«d  lettaoe  with  the  eaUd ;  but 
ithin  a  few  minutes,  the  vinegar 
aves.  The  better  plan  ia  to  heap 
!r  leaves  of  several  lettuce- heads, 
Dg  them,  and  pass  with  the  lob- 
,7  add  the  greeu  salad  to  their 

lid  be  eaten  aa  soon  as  poasible 
d,  else  it  becomes  unwholesome. 
r,  open  and  turn  out  the  contents 
ish  several  hours  before  you  mix 
se,  airless  smell  may  pass  away. 
lie  dish  with  cool  white  leaves  of 
chain  of  rings  made  of  the  whites 

Or, 
D  any  other  dressing,  you   may 
klad  a 

nawe  Dressing. 
le  yolka  only. 
est  salad  oil. 
alf  a  lemon, 
anfuls  of  vinegar, 
ayenne  and  same  of  salt, 
1  of  made  mustard. 
Jy,  turning  the  yolks  into  a  cold 
nnegar  should  have  been  kept  on 
!  using.    Bqueeze  a  dozen  drops 
9  yolks,  Bud  siir  in  with  a  furk 
la  to  thicken,  when  add  the  oil, 
ot  beating.     When  the  dressing 
gradually  with  lemon  juice,  then 
,  with  the  oil.    In  fifteen  minutes 
e  ready.     StJr  in  last  cayenne. 


1 


190  COMMON  BENBE. 

mustard,  and  salt,  with,  if  you  like,  a  little  powdered 
sugar.    A  few  drops  of  Tobasoo  Sauce  improves  the  flavor. 

Excelsior  Lobster  Salad  with  Cream  Dressing.  >{< 

1  fine  lobster,  boiled  and  when  cold  picked  to  pieces,  or 

two  small  ones. 
1  cup  of  best  salad  oil. 

i  cup  sweet  cream,  whipped  light  to  a  cupful  of  froth. 
1  lemon — the  juice  strained. 
1  teaspoonful  mustard  wet  up  with  vinegar. 
1  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  salt 
A  pinch  of  cayenne  pepp». 
4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 
Beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 

Beat  eggs,  sugar,  salt,  mustard,  and  pepper  until  light; 
then,  and  very  gradually,  the  oiL  When  the  mixture  b 
quite  thick,  whip  in  the  lemon.  Beat  five  minutes  before 
putting  in  the  vinegar.  Just  before  the  salad  goes  to 
table  add  half  the  whipped  cream  to  this  dressing  and 
stir  well  into  the  lobster.  line  the  salad-bowl  with  let- 
tuce-leaves; put  in  the  seasoned  meat  and  cover  with  the 
rest  of  the  whipped  cream. 

This  salad  deserves  its  name. 

Chicken  Salad.  ^ 

The  white  meat  of  a  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken 

(or  turkey). 
Three-quarters  the  same  bulk  of  chopped  celery. 
Yolks  of  three  eggs. 
1  cup  of  oil. 
i  lemon. 

A  little  salt,  sugar,  and  cayenne, 
i  cup  of  vinegar. 


ffat 
inch 


recU 


lery 


i  cait 
uial 

angt 


192  COMMON  BENB] 

pepper,  and  salt,  pulling  the  heart  < 
your  fingers,  and  seasoning  to  taste. 
SuMUER  Sala 
3  heada  of  lettuce. 
2  teaspoonfula  green  raus 
A  handful  of  water-cresei 
Four  or  five  very  tender  i 

1  cucumber. 
Yolks  of  three  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  whits  Buga 
1  teaspoouful  salt. 

1  "  pepper- 

1  "  made  musti 

1  teacupful  vinegar. 

8  tablespoon  fu  Is  salad  oil 

Mix  the  dressing  as  for  lettuc 

hearts  of  the  lettuce,  the  radishes  at 

small  pieces ;  chop  the  mustard  a 

these  the  dressing,  tossing  very  lig 

young  leaves ;  heap  in  a  salad-bow 

and  garnish  with  fennel-heads  and  : 

WATER-<;KEaSEa. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  cresses 
the  stems,  and  pile  in  the  salad  bo 
vinegar,  pepper,  salt,  and  sugar,  we 

Cabbage  Salad,  ob  Co 

1  bead  of  fine  white  cabbag 
Yolks  of  two  eggs. 

8  tableepooufuls  salad  oil. 

2  tablespoonfuk  white  sugai 
Juice  of  half  a  lemon. 


B  chopped  cabbage. 
I  dreM  with — 


aa  of  Bait 

ienu  for  the  dress- 
and  let  them  come 
lie  cabbage,  and  Bet 
cream  just  before 

>bage,  and  iar  more 

1 


irected,  mixing  this 
ingredients  cold. 


COKKOH  BEMSE. 

tb«  tomatoes,  slice  them  a  • 
and  set  the  dish  on  ice  wh: 
the  dreBsing.  Stir  a  great  Iud 
he  dressiug — until  it  is  cold  ;  t 
lea  with  the  mixture,  and  set  b 
ud  to  table. 

1  Balad  is  delicious,  especially  ' 
,um  with  all  salads. 

Celery  Salad.  1 

1  raw  egg — the  yolk  on 

4  tablespoon  fu  Is  salad  c 

1  teaspoonful  white  sug 

1  saltBpoonful  salt. 

1  "  pepper. 

4  tablespoonfuls  vinegai 

1  leaapoonful  made  raui 

■are  the  dressing  as  for  tomato  i 

its  half  an  inch  long,  and  s« 

the  vinegar  iDJuresj  the  crispn« 

Salmon  Salad. 
11  lb.  cold  boiled  or  baked  sal 

2  heads  white  lettuce  (or  celer 
8  tab! eepoonf Ills  salad  oil. 

1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  same  ol 
1  "  white  sugar. 

1  "  Woreeatershire  c 

I         "         made  mustard. 
i  t«acupful  of  vinegar. 
Juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

ce  three-quarters  of  the  salmon, 
ices  half  an  inch  wide  and  foi 
ly  and  of  uniform  size.     Prej: 


8ALADS.  195 

the  nsaal  way,  and  pour  over  the  minced  fish  Shred  the 
lettuce,  handling  as  little  as  possible,  and  heap  in  a  sepa- 
rate bowl,  with  pounded  ice.  This  must  accompany  the 
salmon,  that  the  guests  may  help  themselves  to  their 
liking.  Or  you  may  mix  the  lettuce  with  the  fish,  if  it  is 
to  be  eaten  immediately.  Celery,  of  course,  is  always 
stirred  into  the  salad,  when  it  is  used.  The  reserved 
pieces  of  salmon  should  be  laid  in  the  dressing  for  five 
minutes  before  the  latter  is  added  to  the  minced  fish,  then 
dipped  in  vinegar.  When  you  have  transferred  your 
salad  to  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  round  it  into 
a  mound,  and  lay  the  strips  upon  it  in  such  a  manner  as 
to  divide  it  into  triangular  sections,  the  bars  all  meeting 
at  the  top  and  diverging  at  the  base.  Between  these  have 
subdivisions  of  chain- work  made  of  the  whites  of  boiled 
eggs,  each  circle  overlapping  that  next  to  it. 

Tou  can  dress  halibut  in  the  same  way — ^indeed,  any 
fresh,  firm  fish. 

Potato  Salad.  >J<    (  Very  good.) 
2  cups  of  mashed  potato,  rubbed  through  a  cul- 
lender, 
f  of  a  cup  of  chopped  cabbage — white  and  firm. 
2  tablespoonfuls  cucumber  pickle,  also  chopped. 
Yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  pounded  fine. 
Mix  all  well  together. 

Dremng. 

1  raw  egg,  yolk  of,  well  beaten. 

1  saltspoonful  of  celery-seed. 

1  teaspoon&l  white  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  of  flour. 

i  cupful  of  vinegar. 

Salt,  mustard,  and  pepper  to  taste. 


196  OOMMOV  SEBTSB. 

Boil  the  vinegar  and  pour  it  upon  the  beaten  egg,  sagati 
butter,  and  seasoning.  Wet  the  flour  with  cold  vin^ar, 
and  beat  into  this.  Cook  the  mixture,  stirring  until  it 
thickens,  when  pour,  scalding  hot,  upon  the  salad.  Toss 
with  a  silver  fork,  and  let  it  get  very  cold  before  eating. 

Cheese  Salad,  ob  Mock  Crab. 

}  lb.  pickled  shrimps.  — 

i  lb.  good  old  cheese. 

1  tablespoonful  salad  oil. 

i  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 

1  "         salt. 

1  "         white  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 

4  tablespoonfuls  celery  or  onion  vinegar. 

Mince  the  shrimps  and  grate  the  cheese.  Work  into 
the  latter,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  various  condiments  enu- 
merated above,  the  vinegar  last.  Let  all  stand  together 
ten  minutes  before  adding  the  shrimps.  When  this  is 
done,  stir  well  for  a  minute  and  a  half  and  serve  in  a 
glass  dish,  garnished  with  lemon,  or  (if  you  can  get  one) 
in  a  clean  crab-shell. 

Or,     ^ 
i  lb.  old  cheese,  grated. 
1  hard-boiled  egg. 
i  teaspoonful  cayenne. 
1  "         salt. 

1  '^  white  sugar; 

1  "         made  mustard. 

1  tablespoonful  onion  vinegar. 
1  '*         salad  oil. 

Rub  the  yolk  of  the  egg  to  a  paste  with  the  oil,  adding 
in  order  the  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  mustard,  lastly  the 


POTATOES.  197 

cbeeee.     Work  all  well  together  before  putting  in  the 
vinegar.    Serve  in  a  crab-shell. 

These  mixtures  bear  a  marvellous  resemblance  in  taste 
to  devilled  crab,  and  make  a  good  impromptu  relish  at  tea 
or  luncheon.  Eat  with  crackers  and  butter.  This  is  still 
better  if  you  add  a  cupful  of  cold  minced  chicken. 

Use  none  but  the  best  and  freshest  olive  salad  oil  (not 
&weet  oil,  falsely  so  called)  in  compounding  your  salad- 
dressing.  If  you  cannot  obtain  this,  melted  butter  is  the 
best  substitute  I  know  of. 

Given  a  good  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  there  is  scarcely 
an  edible  that  cannot  be  made  into  salad.  I  have  room 
to  mention  but  a  few. 

Hard-boiled  egg»,  peeled  when  cold,  cut  into  halves,  and 
laid  upon  crisp  lettuce;  shrimps,  canned  or  boiled, sur- 
rounded by  lettuce;  cold  veal,  cut  into  dice  and  mixed 
with  celery ;  any  kind  oi  firm  fish,  boiled  and  cold,  served 
with  lettuce;  sweetbreads,  treated  iu  the  same  way;  9i  fruit' 
salad  of  white  grapes,  carefully  skinned,  sliced  bananas, 
and  oranges  cut  into  dice,  mixed  with  the  kernels  of 
English  walnuts,  and  laid  upon  lettuce — (odd,  but  good) ; 
cold  lamb,  minced  fine,  with  chopped  lettuce ;  cold  beans, 
green  peas,  and  eold  boiled  beets,  arranged  tastefully 
together  upon  a  dish,  with  a  full  fringe  of  lettuce, — offer 
the  ingenious  housewife  choice  and  variety  of  delicacies 
that  will  stimulate  appetite  and  make  a  plain  meal  el^^nt. 

In  nothing  else  has  the  culinary  art  advanced  more 
rapidly  and  satis&ctorily  than  in  the  preparation  and 
appreciation  of  Salads. 


POTA.TOES. 
Boiled  Potatoes  (wUh  the  skins  on). 

Boiled  in  cold  water  with  a  pinch  of  salt    Have  them 
uniform  size,  and  cook  steadily  until  a  fork  will  pieros 


198  COMHOK  SEHBE. 

easil;  to  the  heart  of  the  large§t. 
water,  every  drop;   sprinkle  with  salt 
range,  a  little  to  one  eide,  with  the  lid 
them  dry  three  or  four  minutoa ;  pe 
serve  in  an  uncovered  diab 

WUhoxit  Ae  Siitu 
Pare  very  thin.  The  glory  of  a  pc 
and  much  of  the  starch,  or  meal,  lies 
sequently  is  lost  by  slovenly  paring,  w' 
the  shape.  Lay  in  cold  water  for 
ready  a  pot  of  boiling  water  slightly 
potatoes,  and  keep  at  a  rapid  boil  unti 
the  water,  sprinkle  with  fine  salt,  and  ( 
And  here  comes  a  conflict  of  authoi 
friend  and  neighbor,  Mrs  A.,  an  exce 
boil  my  potatoes  in  cold  water  alw( 
salt,  of  course,  and  when  half-done,  t 
ing  water  and  fill  up  with  cold,  tbei 
makes  the  potatoes  mealy,"  Mrs,  B., 
a  housekeeper  and  cook  is  in  every  ki 
"  I  have  tried  both  ways.  My  experii 
melt  into  a  sort  of  starchy  gruel  n 
water.  The  philosophy  of  the  operati< 
and  thoroughly,  and,  the  instant  tbi 
out  every  drop  of  water.  And— "w 
donable  pride — "  we  generally  have 
This  is  true,  but  remembering  that 
snow  hillocks,  ready  to  crumble  at 
home  and  try  the  cold  water  plan 
moat  of  her  tribe,  is  too  sensible  I 
knows  everything,  and  willingly  ab 
of  our  experiments  stands  somewhat  t 
Mountain,  and  Early  Rose  potatoes  i 
txld  water,  giving  off  their  stanrii  t 


B.  199 

Peach  Blows,  Frioce  Al- 
e  beat  cooked  as  Mrs.  A. 
r  the  water  the  instaot 
potatoes  dry  for  a  few 
is  can  decide  fit  tbeiU' 


TOES.  »}« 

Pare,  and  let  them  lie 
quarters  of  aa  hour-  A 
1.  Boil  in  hot  or  cold 
«  of  texture.  A  coaree, 
cold  water.  In  either 
Drain  thoroughly  when 
}h  them  in  the  pot  with 
split  epoon,  working  in  a 
ough  milk  to  make  the 
eoft  dough.  Leave  no 
sh.  Form  into  a  mound 
dots  of  pepper  here  and 
» half-dime. 

1  until  a  crust  a  formed. 


'OTATOBB, 

r  with  a  rough  towet-  If 
int  knife-  I^ay  lu  cold 
irater  slightly  salted,  boil 
d  dry  for  two  or  three 


lightly  upon  it  with  the 


200  COMMON  SENSE. 

back  of  a  wooden  spoon,  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish,  and  poor 
over  them  a  cupful  of  cream  or  new  milk,  heated  to  a  boil, 
in  which  a  great  spoonful  of  butter  has  been  dissolved. 

To  Stew  Old  Potatoes.  >J< 

This  is  a  good  way  to  cook  potatoes  which  are  so  rank 
and  tough  as  hardly  to  be  eatable  in  any  other  form. 

Pare  and  quarter,  if  large.  Soak  in  cold  water  one 
hour.  Put  into  a  pot  with  enough  cold  salted  water  to 
cover  them.  When  almost  done,  turn  off  the  water,  add 
a  like  quantity  of  milk,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Before 
taking  up,  stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
little  salt,  a  handful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  thicken 
slightly  with  flour  previously  wet  in  cold  milk.  Boil 
one  minute,  and  pour  all  into  a  deep  dish. 

Stewed  Potatoes  fob  Breakfast.  >J< 

Pare,  cut  into  dice,  and  soak  in  cold  water  half  an 
hour.  Stew  in  enough  hot  salted  water  to  cover  them. 
Before  taking  up,  and  when  they  are  breaking  to  pieces, 
drain  off  half  the  water,  and  pour  in  a  cupful  of  milk. 
Boil  three  minutes,  stirring  well ;  put  in  a  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg  rolled  in  flour,  a  little  salt  and  a  pinch 
of  pepper ;  add  a  little  parsley ;  boil  up  well  and  turn  into 
a  covered  dish. 

This  is  an  excellent  family  dish.  Children  are  usually 
fond  of  it,  and  it  is  very  wholesome. 

Baked  Potatoes. 

Wash  and  wipe  some  large  ripe  potatoes,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  until  tender,  say  from  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  to  an  hour,  if  of  a  good  size.  Serve  in  a  napkin 
with  the  skins  on.    Tear  or  cut  a  hole  in  the  top  when 


FOTAlOBa. .  201 

jon  eat  them,  put  in  a  bit  of  butter  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Thej  are  good  for  boys'  cold  fingers  at  supper-time  on 
winter  nights. 

Potato  Puff.  >{< 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  cold  mashed  potato,  and  stir  into 
it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  beating  to  a  white 
cream  before  adding  anything  else.  Then  put  with  this 
two  eggs  whipped  very  light  and  a  teacupful  of  cream  or 
milk,  salting  to  taste.  Beat  all  well,  pour  into  a  deep 
dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  it  is  nicely  browned. 
If  properly  mixed,  it  will  come  out  of  the  oven  light,  pufiy, 
and  delectable. 

Potatoes  Warmed  Over — cUiaa  au  MaUre  d*HoteL 

Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
and  put  into  a  saucepan,  with  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk,  two  or  three  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  some  chopped 
parsley.  Heat  quickly,  stirring  all  the  time  until  ready 
to  boil,  when  stir  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  This  last 
ingredient  entitles  the  dish  to  the  foreign  title.  Pour  into 
a  deep  dish,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Potato  Croquettes.  >i< 

Season  cold  mashed  potato  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nut- 
meg. Beat  to  a  cream,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter  to  every  cupful  of  potato.  Bind  with  two  or  three 
beaten  egg^,  and  add  some  minced  parsley.  Roll  into 
oval  balls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread-crumbs,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard  or  drippings. 

Pile  in  a  pyramid  upon  a  flat  dish,  and  serve. 

Fried  Potatoes,  >J< 

Pare,  wash,  and  slice  some  raw  potatoes  as  thin 

9* 


SOS  oomoH  «i 

waler«.  Thia  can  b«  done  with  as 
ii  a  little  instrument  for  the 
house-furnUbing  atorea,  which 
slices  evenly.  Lay  in  ice-wate 
dry  in  two  elotba,  spreading  th( 
the  other  upon  theoL  Have  ret 
boiling  lard  or  nice  dripping,  fi 
brown,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  si 
deep  dish  and  folded  over  them 
take  from  the  frying-pan  as  sooi 
a  perforated  skimmer,  put  into  i 
an  instant    They  should  be  oris 

Or, 
Cbop  cold  boiled  potatoes  into 
and  salt,  and  fry  lightly  in  dr 
them  constantly  until  nicely  bro 

Potato  Rr 
Pare  and  lay  in  ice-water  t 
lai^est  and  soundest  potatoes  you 
the  end  of  the  hour,  pare,  with 
round  in  one  continuous  curlinj 
instrument  for  this  purpose,  wh 
will  do  the  work  deftly  and  ex{ 
care,  fry — a  few  at  a  time,  for 
lard  or  clarified  drippings,  drain 
a  hot  flat  dish. 

Potatoes  i.  la 

Put  into  a  saucepan  three  t 

small  handful  of  parsley  chopp 

to  taste-     Stir  up  well  until  hot, 

cream  or  rich  milk,  thicken  with 


cold  boiled  potatoes, 
ice  before  seiring. 

ES.  •>(< 

uulil  aoft,  and  cut  a 
9crape  out  the  inside 
kin,  and  set  aside  the 
[ub  the  inside  very 
hot  some  butter  and 
each  for  ever;  potato, 
good  piach  of  grated 
ith  milk,  and  put  into 
Tent  burning.  When 
en  egg  for  six  large 
ins  with  the  mixture, 

0  the  oven  for  three 
a  deep  dish,  the  capa 
;  napkin,  and  eat  hot. 

1  a  double  quantity  of 


t  vith  a  little  milk, 
-a  dessertspoonful  for 
and  pepper  to  taste, 
wllop  shells  with  the 
en  you  have  stamped 
laze,  while  hot,  with' 

[lated  cheese  over  the 

-(Wholt.) 
potatoes,  aod  thre»*. 


204  ooinfon  acmB. 

qnartera  of  aa  hour  before  a  piec 
removed  from  the  fire,  skim  the  &t  i 
the  potatoes  ia  the  dripping-pan,  ht 
well  with  flour.  Baste  them,  to  pre 
the  grttvy.  and  vhen  quite  brown,  dr 
them  about  the  meat  in  the  dish. 

Browked  Potato. — (J 
This  ia  also  an  accompaniment  to  i 
Mash  some  boiled  potatoes  amoothl; 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  boiled  onion  (i 
small  cones  or  balls;  flour  well,  and 
the  meat,  half  an  hour  or  so  before  71 
off  all  the  fat  from  the  gn-rj  befoi 
Drain  them  dr;  when  brown,  and  h 
when  dished. 

These  are  nioe  with  roost  spare-ri 
that  ia  not  loo  ftt. 

Broiled  Potato] 
Gut  whole  boiled  potatoes  lengt 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  la;  up 
hot,  bright  fire.  Brown  on  both  side 
per  and  salt,  la;  a  bit  of  butter  upoi 
hot 

Potato  Caeis. 
Make  culd  mashed  potato  into  fia 
fry  in  lard,  or  good  sweet  dripping,  ui 
brown. 

Boast  Sweet  Potai 

Select  those  of  uniform  size,  wash, ' 

you  can  tell,  by  gently  presaing  the 

finger  and  thumb,  that  it  is  mellow  th 

their  jackets. 


20fi 

very  good  for  pio- 
a,  it  will  be  remem- 
jet  before  the  Brit- 
ou.  sir.  We  don't 
toes  and  salt." 
the  negro  orderly's 
1  trencher  of  pinft- 


ze  as  possible;  put 
i  boil  until  a  fork 
olf  the  wat«r,  and 
nutes.    Peel  before 


This  is  a  wise  plan 
g  is  apt  to  render 
boil  until  they  are 
own,  basting  them 
ig  them  dry  before 


a  4< 

iwise  into  slices  a 

sweet  dripping  or 

in  this  way.  Or 
lantity  of  cold  Irish 
'ith  a  good  lump  of 
slightly  brown. 


206 


COMMON  8B1I8E. 


CABBAGE. 
Boiled    Cabbage. 

Pick  off  the  outer  green  leaves,  quarter,  examine  care- 
fully to  be  sure  there  are  no  insects  in  it,  and  lay  for  an 
hour  in  cold  water.  Then  put  into  a  pot  with  plenty  ol 
boiling  water,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Throw  away  the 
water,  and  fill  up  the  pot  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle. 
Cook  until  tender  all  through.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour 
will  do  for  a  good-sized  cabbage  when  young.  Liate  in  the 
season  you  must  be  guided  by  the  tenderness  of  the  stalk. 
Drain  well,  chop,  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt  Serve  very  hot  If  you  boil  corned 
beef  or  pork  to  eat  with  cabbage,  let  the  second  water  be 
taken  from  the  pot  in  which  this  is  cooking.  It  will  flavor 
it  nicely. 

Altoaya  boil  cabbage  in  two  waters. 

Bacon  and  Cabbage. 

This,  I  need  hardly  say,  is  a  favorite  country  dish  at 
the  South.  The  old-fashioned  way  of  preparing  it  was  to 
boil  meat  and  cabbage  together,  and  serve,  reeking  with 
fat,  the  cabbage  in  quarters,  soaking  yet  more  of  the  es- 
sence from  the  ham  or  middling  about  which  it  lay.  In 
this  shape  it  justly  earned  a  reputation  for  grossness  and 
indigestibility  that  banished  it,  in  time,  from  many  tables. 

Yet  it  is  a  savory  and  not  unwholesome  article  of  food  in 
winter,  if  the  cabbage  be  boiled  in  two  waters,  the  second 
being  the  "  pot  liquor  "  from  the  boiling  meat  Drain 
thoroughly  in  a  cullender,  pressing  out  every  drop  of 
water  that  will  flow,  without  breaking  the  tender  leaves ; 
and  when  the  meat  is  dished,  lay  the  cabbage  neatly 
about  it,  and  upon  each  quarter  a  slice  of  hard-boiled  egg. 

When  you  eat,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar. 


CABBAGE.  207 

Stxtffed  Cabbage. 

Choose  for  this  purpose  a  large,  firm  oabbage.  Take 
off  the  outer  leaves,  and  lay  in  boiling  water  ten  minutes, 
then  in  very  cold.  Do  this  several  hours  before  you  are 
ready  to  stuff  it  When  perfectly  cold,  bind  a  broad  tape 
about  it,  or  a  strip  of  muslin,  that  it  may  not  fall  apart 
when  the  stalk  is  taken  out.  Remove  this  with  a  thin  sharp 
knife,  leaving  a  hole  about  as  deep  as  your  middle-finger. 
Without  widening  the  mouth  of  the  aperture,  excavate 
the  centre  until  you  have  room  for  four  or  five  tabltnspoon- 
fuls  of  the  force-meat — more,  if  the  head  be  large.  Chop 
the  bits  you  take  out  very  small ;  mix  with  some  cold 
boiled  pork  or  ham,  or  cooked  sausage-meat,  a  very  little 
onion,  pepper,  salt,  a  pinch  of  thyme,  and  some  bread- 
crumbs. .  Fill  the  cavity  with  this,  bind  a  wide  strip  of 
muslin  over  the  hole  in  the  top,  and  lay  the  cabbage  in  a 
large  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  *'  pot-liquor"  from  boiled  beef 
or  ham.  btew  gently  until  very  tender.  Take  out  the 
cabbage,  unbind  carefully,  and  lay  in  a  dish.  Keep  hot 
while  you  add  to  the  gravy,  when  you  have  strained  it 
pepper  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  two  or  three 
tablespoonfuls  rich  milk  or  cream.  Boil  up,  and  pour 
over  the  cabbage. 

"  COLLARDB,"  OR    CaBBAGE-SpROUTS. 

Pick  over  carefully,  lay  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted, 
half  an  hour ;  shake  in  a  cullender  to  dmin,  and  put  into 
boiling  water,  keeping  at  a  fast  boil  until  tender.  A  piece 
of  pork  seasons  them  pleasantly.  In  this  case  put  the 
meat  on  first,  adding  the  greens  when  it  is  parboiled,  and 
cooking  them  together.  Boil  in  an  uncovered  vesseL 
Drain  very  well ;  chop  and  heap  in  a  dish,  laying  the 
meat  on  top. 


208  common  bewbb. 

Ladies'  Cabbage. 

Boil  a  firm  white  cabbage  fifteen  n 
water  then  for  moro  from  the  boilii 
tGDder,  drain  and  set  aside  until  perfc 
and  add  two  beaten  tggf,  s  tablespooi 
salt,  three  tablespoonfularich  milk  or 
together,  and  bake  in  a  buttered 
brown.    Eat  very  hot. 

I  can  conecientiouely  recommend  i 
who  are  not  fond  of  any  of  the  ordii 
cabbage.  It  ia  digestible  and  pal 
resembling  cauliflower  in  taate  than 
moner  cousin- Cerman. 

Fried  Cabbaoi 
Chop  cold  boiled  cabbage,  and  dn 
in  a  little  melt«d  butter,  pepper,  an< 
four  tablespoon fuls  of  cream.  He 
fryiug-pan,  stirring  until  smoking  h 
ture  stand  just  long  enough  to  br 
underside.  It  is  improved  by  the  ad 
beaten  eggs.  Turn  out  by  puttiug  i 
pan,  upside-down,  and  reverdDg  tb 
breakfast  dish. 

Rauerkraut. 
Shred  or  chop  the  cabbage  fine,  I 
jar  with  cabbage-leaves  on  the  bottoi 
a  layer  of  the  cut  cabbage,  three  in< 
down  well  and  sprinkle  with  four  Is 
When  you  have  packed  five  layen  in 
with  a  board  cut  to  fit  loosely  on  the 
or  jar.  Put  heavy  weights  on  thi 
wooden  beetle  until  the  cabbage  is  a 
remove  the  board  and  put  in  moi 


a.-  VA 

iDding  eTei7  four  or  five 
Cover  with  leaves,  and 
s  with  a  heavy  weight  to 
irmenL  la  three  weeke 
cover  with  water.  Keep 
atcn  raw  or  boiled,  and 

lire  of  preparing  this,  to 
loroua  compound.  Some 
>pera,  cloves,  garlic,  and 
mild,  motherly  Teuton 
tor — " — "Rot!  "  inter* 
ticipatint;  her  deliberate 
iwled  the  placid  Fran, 


FEB. 

OWBR. 

italk  cloee  to  the  bottom 
cold  water  for  half  an 
lit  it;  if  you  do,  quarter 
rabbinet  lace  or  tarlatan 
'uising ;  put  into  boiling 
cr.  Undo  and  remove 
a  hot  dish.  Have  ready 
er  and  pour  over  it  A 
eavce  tartare. 
i  in  helping  it  out,  and 
)er30u.  Take  it  out  of 
■ve  quickly,  and  eat  hot- 

d  more  indifibrent  csnli- 


210  OOMUOV  egENflE. 

flowers.  Cut  them  into  small  clusters ;  lay  in  cold  salt 
and  water  half  an  hour,  and  stew  fifteen  minutes  in  boil- 
ing water.  Turn  most  of  this  off,  leaving  but  half  a 
teacupful  in  the  saucepan.  Add  to  this  a  half-cupful  of 
milk  thickened  with  a  very  little  rice  or  wheat  flour, 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Shake  the  saucepan  over  the  fire  gently  until  it  boils; 
take  out  the  cauliflowers  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  lay 
in  order  upon  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 

Scalloped  Cauliflower. 

Boil  until  tender,  clip  into  neat  clusters,  and  pack — the 
stems  downward — in  a  buttered  pudding-dish.  Beat  up  a 
cupful  of  bread  crumbs  to  a  soft  paste  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  six  of  cream  or  milk ; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  bind  with  a  beaten  egg,  and 
with  this  cover  the  cauliflower.  Cover  the  dbh  closelv 
and  bake  six  minutes  in  a  quick  oven  ;  brown  in  five 
more,  and  serve  very  hot  in  the  dish  in  which  they  were 
baked. 

Broccoli  and  Brussels  Sprouts. 

Pick  over,  wash  carefully,  cut  ofi*  the  lower  part  of  the 
stems  and  lay  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted,  half  an  hour. 
Cook  quickly  in  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt,  until 
tender.  This  will  be  in  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes.  Cook 
in  an  uncovered  saucepan.  Drain  well,  lay  in  a  neat 
pile  lightly  heaped  in  the  centre  of  a  dish,  and  pour 
drawn  butter  over  them,  or  serve  this  in  a  tureen. 

Broccoli  and  Eqos. 
Boil  two  or  three  heads  of  broccoli  until  tender.    Have 
ready  two  cupfuls  of  butter  drawn  in  the  usual  way,  and 
beat  into  it,  while  hot,  four  well-whipped  eggs.     Lay  but- 


OKTABLXB.  211 

m  of*  a  hot  dish,  and  on  this  the 
rhole,  as  a.  centre-piece.  Arrange 
len  cut  into  clusters,  the  stoma 
^j^g-sauce  over  all. 

[ED  Tdekipb. 

water,  slightly  salted,  untU  the 
;epaii  intended  for  them.  Put 
very  tender.  The  time  will  de- 
rain  aud  mash  in  the  cullender 
rring  in  at  the  last  a  tablespoon- 
and  aalt  to  taste,  and  serve  hot. 
irned  beetj  you  may  take  a  little 
t  in  which  the  meat  ia  cooking; 
lil  up  once  ta  throw  off  the  scum, 
turnips  in  this. 

Or. 
I,  rub  them  when  lender  through 
e  milk,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt; 
saucepan  and  serve- 

tps  Boiled  Whole. 
m  all  into  the  same  size  and 
x  half  an  hour.  Put  on  in  boil* 
KM)nful  of  butter,  and  stew  until 
out  crushing  or  breaking  them ; 
over  with  a  white  sauce  made  of 
'umips  should  be  eaten  very  hot 

ED  Spinach. 

spinach  is  desperately  deceitful. 
r  it  is  boiled  without  bethinking 
many  years  since,  illustrative  of 


213  ooHifoir  exmi 

the  perils  of  innocent  nimplidty. 
and  big  (unlucky)  one  hare  beeu  a 
in  fishing.  While  the  former,  wel 
Bult  of  his  daj'e  sport,  is  busy  pi 
tackle,  the  designing  elder  dexteroui 
string  of  minnows  for  the  other's  bU 
little  fellow,  turning  to  pick  it  np, 
the  cruel  cheat,  makea  piteous  roui 
ejaculating,  "How  they  have  mehm 

A  young  housekeeper  of  my  acq 
spring  dinner  for  herself  and  husbs 
of  epiuach.  When  it  should  hav 
table,  there  came  in  its  stead  a  pla 
haviug  given  out  one  for  the  dres 
spinach  ? "  she  demanded  of  the  mai 
der  the  egg,  ma'am  I"     And  it  was  I 

Moral — Qet  eDough  spioach  to  b< 
eye.     A  peck  is  not  too  much  for  a 

Pick  it  over  very  carefully;  it 
Wash  iu  several  waters,  and  let  it 
hour  at  least.  Take  out  with  youi 
bunch  well,  and  put  into  boiling  wa 
Boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes, 
thoroughly,  chop  twryfine;  put  ini 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
Stir  until  very  hot,  turn  into  a  dish 
topped  mound  with  a  ulver  or  woo 
hard-boiled  eggs  and  lay  on  top. 

Or, 
Rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  powi 
and  when  your  mound  is  raised,  spr 
flat  top-  Four  eggs  will  dress  a  goa 
whites  into  rings  and  garnish,  layii 
sur&ce.    This  makes  a  pleasant  dn 


a  cullend^. 
wartU;  three 
«  diah).  Put 
tly.  When 
am,  a  pinch 
oil  up  once, 
wl  or  other 
boiled  e^a. 


Mdy  to  cook 
cook  from 
ad  fresh,  the 
im  your  own 
rket  peas  are 
lall  lump  of 
The  English 
moved  when 
irith  a  great 
>per.     E«ep 


-ou  need  for 
n,  season  ing 
il  morning, 
ful  of  milk, 
owder,  and 
o  this,  beat- 
ary  griddle- 

ce  a  delight 


214  coMXov  flsams. 

All  morning  dish,  and  hereby  return  thanks  to  the 
unknown  friend  to  whom  I  am  indebted  for  the  receipt 

Asparagus  (boiled,) 

Out  jour  stalks  of  equal  length,  rejecting  the  woodj  or 
lower  portions,  and  scraping  the  white  part  which  re- 
mains. Throw  into  cold  water  as  you  scrape  them.  Tie 
in  a  bunch  with  soft  strings — muslin  or  tape — and  put 
into  boiling  water  slightly  salted.  If  very  young  and 
fresh,  it  is  well  to  tie  in  a  piece  of  coarse  net  to  protect 
the  tops.  Boil  from  twenty  to  forty  minutes,  according 
to  the'  age.  Just  before  it  is  done,  toast  two  or  three 
slices  of  bread,  cutting  off  the  crust ;  dip  in  the  asparagus 
liquor,  butter,  and  lay  in  a  hot  dish.  When  you  take  up 
the  asparagus,  drain,  unbind  the  bundle,  and  heap  it 
npon  the  toast,  with  bits  of  butter  between  the  stalks. 

Asparagus  and  Eggs. 

Cut  twenty-five  or  thirty  heads  of  asparagus  into  bits 
half  an  inch  long,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Have  a  cup- 
ful of  rich  drawn  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  put  in  the 
asparagus  when  you  have  drained  it  dry.  Heat  together 
to  a  boil,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  into  a 
buttered  bake-dish.  Break  five  or  six  eggs  carefully  over 
tlie  surface ;  put  a  bit  of  butter  upon  each  ;  sprinkle  with 
salt,  and  pepper,  and  put  in  the  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set. 

You  may  beat  the  eggs — ^yclta  and  whites  separately — to 
i\  froth ;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  stir  them 
together,  with  the  addition  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk 
or  cream,  and  pour  evenly  over  the  asparagus  mixture  in 
the  dish.  This  is  decidedly  the  better  way  of  the  two^ 
although  somewhat  more  troublesome. 


vegetablbb.  215 

Asparagus  in  Ambush.  >{« 

Cut  off  the  tender  tops  of  fifty  heads  of  asparagus ;  boil 
and  drain  them.  Have  ready  half  a  dozen  (or  more)  stale 
biscuit  or  rolls,  from  which  you  have  cut  a  neat  top  slice 
and  scraped  out  the  crumb.  Set  them  in  the  oven  t) 
crisp,  laying  the  tops  beside  them  that  the  cavities  may  be 
well  dried.  Meanwhile,  put  into  a  saucepan  a  sugarless 
custard  made  of  a  pint — ^if  you  need  so  much — of  milk, 
and  four  well-whipped  eggs.  Boil  the  milk  first,  before 
beating  in  the  eggs ;  set  over  the  fire  and  stir  until  it 
thickens,  when  add  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt 
and  pepper ;  lastly,  the  asparagus  tops,  minced  fine.  Do 
not  let  it  boil,  but  take  from  the  fire  so  soon  as  the  aspar- 
agus is  fairly  in ;  fill  the  rolls  with  the  mixture,  put  on  the 
tops,  fitting  them  accurately;  set  in  the  oven  three 
minutes,  and  arrange  on  a  dish,  to  be  eaten  hot 

The  number  of  rolls  will  depend  upon  their  size.  It  is 
better  to  have  them  small,  so  that  one  can  be  served  to 
each  person.     They  will  be  found  extremely  nice. 

Boiled  Onions. 

Cut  off  tops  and  tails,  and  skin  them.  Lay  in  cold 
water  half  an  hour,  then  put  into  a  saucepan  with  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  them.  Cook  fifteen  minutes  and 
drain  off  the  water,  re-covering  them  with  more  from  the 
boiling  tea-kettle.  Boil  until  a  straw  will  pierce  them ; 
drain  and  put  into  a  dish  with  pepper,  salt,  and  plenty  of 
butter.  Send  around  drawn  butter  with  them.  Never 
cook  onions  in  an  iron  pot. 

Stewed  Onioks.  >S< 

Young  onions  should  always  be  cooked  in  this  way. 
Top,  tail,  and  skin  them,  lay  them  in  oold  water  half  an 


216  COHMON  BEHBE. 

hour  or  more,  then  put  iuto  a  eaucepan  with  hot  water 
enough  to  cover  them.  When  half  done,  throw  off  all  the 
water,  except  a  email  teacupful — less,  if  your  mess  be 
small ;  add  a  like  quantity  of  milk,  a  great  spoonful  of 
butter,  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Stew  gently  until 
tender,  and  turn  into  a  deep  dish. 

If  the  onions  are  strong  and  large,  boil  in  three  waters, 
throwing  away  all  of  the  first  and  second,  and  reserving  a 
very  little  of  the  third  to  mix  with  the  milk. 

It  ought  to  be  more  generally  known  that  the  disagree- 
able odor  left  by  any  of  the  onion  family  upon  the  breath 
may  be  removed  by  chewing  and  swallowing  a  few  grains 
of  roasted  coffee.  No  more  nutritious  vegetable  ever 
finds  its  way  to  our  tables,  and  it  is  greatly  to  be  regretted 
that  the  unpleasant  result  just  named  should  deter  so 
many  from  eating  it.  It  is  especially  beneficial  to  brain- 
workers  and  nervous  invalids — ^the  very  people  who  are 
least  likely  to  taste  it 

Baked  Onions. 

The  large  Spanish  or  Bermuda  onions  are  the  only 
kinds  which  are  usually  baked.  Wash  clean,  but  do  not 
remove  the  skins.  Boil  an  hour — ^the  water  should  be 
boiling  when  they  are  put  in,  and  slightly  salt.  Change 
it  twioe  during  this  time,  always  replenishing  with  more, 
boiling-hot.  Turn  off  the  water,  take  the  onions  out  and 
lay  upon  a  cloth,  that  all  the  moisture  may  be  absorbed 
or  evaporate.  Boll  each  in  a  round  piece  of  buttered 
tissue-paper,  twisting  it  at  the  top  to  keep  it  closed,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  nearly  an  hour.  When  tender  all 
through,  peel  them,  put  them  into  a  deep  dish,  and  brown 
slightly,  basting  with  butter  freely.  This  will  take  per- 
haps a  quarter  of  an  hour  more.    Serve  in  a  vegetable 


butter  over  them  when  you 
and  ealt 

D  Osioire. 

rge  Bermuda  onions.  Lay^  in 
loil  in  boiling  water  half  an 
at  extrac*  the  hearts,  taking 
lasers.  Chop  the  inside  thus 
ttle  cold  fat  pork  or  bacon. 
,  salt,  mace,  and  wet  with  a 

Bind  with  a  well-beaten  egg, 
paste.  Stuff  the  ooions  with 
-pan  with  a  very  little  hot 
Tea  for  an  hour,  basting  often 
m  done,  take  the  onions  up 

open  ends  uppermost  in  a 
le  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan 
ur  tablespoon  fuls  of  cream  or 
d  flour  wet  with  cold  milk> 
■  the  onions. 

'OHATOES.  >{• 

ing  scalding  water  npon  them ; 
icting  the  cores  or  hard  parts 
ng  all  unripe  portions.  Stew 
lain)  half  an  hour,  when  add 
saspoonfiil  of  white  sugar,  ftn<) 
Stew  gently  fifteen  minutes 

tomatoes  with  a  little  grated 
-a  small  one — improves  the 
rariety  is  to  put  a  quarter  as 
re  tomatoes  into  the  saucepan 
e,  and  stew  gently. 


218  (X)Bncoy  sEirsE. 

Stuffed  Baked  Tomatoes.  ^ 

Choose  large,  smooth  tomatoes,  and  ctit  a  thin  slice  from 
the  blossom  eud  of  each,  laying  it  aside  for  further  use. 
Scoop  out  the  inside,  and  chop  fine  with  a  little  grated 
bread,  some  green  corn,  salt,  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  white 
sugar,  and  a  tablespoonfiil  butter.  Mix  well  and  stuff  the 
hollowed  tomatoes.  Fit  the  tops  on  neatly,  place  in  circular 
rows  in  a  deep  dish  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  to 
a  light  brown.  Fill  the  interstices  with  the  force-meat  if 
you  have  any  left,  before  you  bake.    Do  not  peel  them. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes.  >{< 

Peel  and  cut  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Pack 
in  a  pudding-dish  in  alternate  layers,  with  a  force-meat 
made  of  bread  crumbs,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little 
white  sugar.  Spread  thickly  upon  each  stratum  of  to- 
matoes, and  when  the  dish  is  nearly  full,  put  tomatoes 
uppermost,  a  good  bit  of  butter  upon  each  slice.  Dust 
with  pepper  and  a  little  sugar.  Strew  with  dry  bread- 
crumbs, and  bake  covered  half  an  hour ;  remove  the  lid 
And  bake  brown. 

Scallop  op  Tomatoes  and  Qreek  Cork.  >f< 

This  is  made  as  above,  substituting  for  the  bread-crumbs 
in  the  force-meat,  green  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  and  sea- 
soning with  some  fat  pork  chopped  very  fine,  a  minced 
shallot,  pepper,  salt,  and  sugar.  Let  the  top  layer  be  to- 
matoes, butter  and  season,  and  dift  grated  bread-crumbs 
over  it  to  brown  the  scallop.  Bake  covered  half  an  hour; 
uncover  and  leave  in  the  oven  as  much  longer.  This 
time  is  for  a  large  dishful. 

Broiled  Tomatoes. 
Select  large,  firm  oner,  and  do  not  ped.    Slioe  Ikalf  all 


hoi 


220 


COMMOy  8SNBB. 


salt  and  vinegar — and  oil,  if  you  wish — laying  some  bits 
of  ice  among  them,  with  thin  slices  of  onion.  Cucumbers 
should  be  gathered  while  the  dew  b  on  them,  and  eaten 
the  same  day.  Leave  them  in  a  cool  place  until  you  are 
ready  to  pare  them. 

Fried  Cuccjmbebs.  ^ 

Pare  and  lay  in  ice-water  half  an  hour.  Cut  length- 
wise, into  slices  nearly  half  an  inch  thick,  and  lay  in 
ice-water  ten  minutes  longer.  Wipe  each  piece  dry  with 
a  soft  cloth,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  dredge 
with  flour.  Fry  to  a  delicate  brown  in  sweet  clarified 
dripping,  nice  lard,  or  butter. 

Many  declare  that  cucumbers  are  never  fit  to  eat  unless 
fried,  and  they  are  assuredly  far  more  wholesome  than 
when  served  raw. 

Stewed  Cucumbebs. 

Pare,  lay  in  ice- water  an  hour ;  then,  slice  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick.  Pick  out  the  seeds  with  a  pen-knife,  and 
put  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover 
them.  Stew  fifteen  minutes,  and  drain  off  the  water. 
Add  enough  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle  to  keep  them 
from  burning;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir 
carefully  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter — or  two,  should  the 
quantity  of  cucumber  be  large.  Stew  gently  ten  minutes, 
and  add  half  a  cupful  of  rich  milk ;  thicken  with  a  little 
flour,  boil  up,  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish,  squeezing  some 
lemon-juice  in  at  the  last. 

This  b  a  popular  English  dish,  although  it  seems  a 
strange  one  to  American  ideas. 

Boiled  Oreex   Cork. 
Choose  young  sugar-corn,  full  grown,  but  not  hard; 


11 


is  COBH.  221 

the  grain  ia  pierced,  the  milk 
Dot  be  thick.  Clean  by  strip- 
urn  back  the  iniiermoet  cover- 
Ty  thread  of  eilk,  and  recover 
£  that  grew  nearest  it.  Tie  at 
U  put  into  boiling  water  Baited, 
Y  minutes  to  half  aa  hour,  in 
Cut  off  the  stalks  close  tu  th« 
le  wrapped  in  a  napkin, 
the  cob  while  hot,  aud  season 
Ut.    Send  to  table  in  a  v^e- 


D  TOHATOEB- 

'  green  corn  cut  from  the  cob, 
eeled.  Stew  together  half  an 
salt,  aud  a  very  little  sugar. 
;r,  and  stir  in  a  great  lump  of 
',  pour  out  and  serve. 

COTABH. 

im  and  Lima  beans,  although 
latter  string  or  butter  beans. 
in  beans,  when  the  former  has 
e  beans  have  been  shelled.  Put 
W  cover  them — no  more — and 
snder — perhaps  half  an  hour — 
ur  off  nearly  all  the  water,  and 
k.  Stew  in  this,  watching  to 
ur  ;  then  stir  in  a  great  lump 
flour  wet  with  cold  milk,  pep- 
up  ODcc,  and  pour  into  a  deep 
a  string-beans,  string  and  cut 
:fore  cooking. 


222  common  8snbx. 

Green  Corn  Pudding.    >}< 

1  quart  milk. 
6  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
1  "  white  sugar. 

1  dozen  ears  of  corn — large  ones. 

Grate  the  com  from  the  cob ;  beat  tLc  whites  and  yolks 
of  the  eggs  separately.  Put  the  com  and  yolks  together, 
stir  kardf  and  add  the  butter ;  then  the  milk  gradually, 
beating  all  the  while ;  next  the  sugar  and  a  little  salt ; 
lastly  the  whites.  Bake  slowly  at  first,  covering  the  dish, 
for  an  hour.     Remove  the  cover,  and  brown  finely. 

This  is  a  most  delicious  accompaniment  to  a  meat 
course,  when  properly  mixed  and  baked.  Warm  up  what 
is  left  from  dinner  foi  breakfast,  by  moistening  it  with 
a  little  warm  milk,  and  stirring  in  a  saucepan  until 
smoking  hot.  You  can  make  this  pudding  from  canned 
com  in  winter,  chopping  the  corn  fine. 

Green  Corn  Fritters  or  Cakes.  >{< 

Grate  the  com,  and  allow  an  egg  and  a  half  for  every 
cupful,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  milk  or  cream.  Beat  the 
eggs  well,  add  the  corn  by  degrees,  beating  very  hard ; 
salt  to  taste;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  to  every 
pint  of  corn ;  stir  in  the  milk,  and  thicken  with  just 
enough  flour  to  hold  them  together— say  a  tablespoonful 
for  every  two  eggs.  You  may  fry  in  hot  lard,  as  you 
would  fritter?,  but  a  better  plan  is  to  cook  upon  a  griddle, 
like  batter  cakes.  Test  a  little  first,  to  see  that  it  is  of 
the  right  consistency. 

Eaten  at  dinner  or  break&st,  these  always  meet  with  a 
cordial  welcome. 


QUtefl  ia  boiling 
cold  milk,  and 
Du  take  it  up,  a 
rolled  iu  flour. 
)il  five  miuutee, 

Dt  from  the  cob 
adding  season- 

lopped  cold  po- 
butter  or  beef- 

e  mixture  until 

r  of  sweet  corn. 


uck  off  the  silk, 
»le,  and  roast  in 
butter,  salt,  and 
le  beach. 

d  water  aa  soon 
blackens  them, 
cepan  with  hot 
tender.  Turn  off 
I  of  cold  milk. 
;  put  in  a  great 
n  flour;  pepper 
'c.    The  taste  ia 


f  in  cold  water 


224  COMMON  BEN8E. 

ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Boil  whole  until  tender,  drain, 
and  when  cold,  mash  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  a  smooth 
paste,  picking  out  all  the  fibres.  Moisten  with  a  little 
milk ;  udd  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  an  egg  and  a 
half  for  every  cupful  of  salsify.  Beat  the  eggs  light 
Make  into  round  cakes,  dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  brown. 

Fried  Eog-Plant.  ^ 
Slice  the  egg-plant  at  least  half  an  inch  thick;  pare 
each  piece  carefully,  and  lay  in  salt  and  water,  putting  a 
plate  upon  the  topmost  to  keep  it  under  the  brine,  and  let 
them  alone  for  an  hour  or  more.  Wipe  each  slice,  dip  in 
beaten  egg^  then  in  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard 
until  well  done  and  nicely  browned. 

Stuffed  Ego-Plant. 
Parboil  for  ten  minutes.  Slit  each  down  the  side,  and 
extract  the  seeds.  Prop  open  the  cut  with  a  bit  of  clean 
wood  or  china,  and  lay  in  cold  salt  and  water  while  you 
prepare  the  force-meat.  Make  this  of  bread-crumbs, 
minute  bits  of  fat  pork,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  parsley,  and 
a  very  little  onion,  chopped  up  together.  Moisten  with 
cream,  and  bind  with  a  beaten  egg.  Fill  the  cavity  in 
the  egg-plant  with  this;  wind  soft  pack-thread  about 
them  to  keep  the  slit  shut,  and  bake,  putting  a  little 
water  in  the  dripping-pan.  Baste  With  butter  and  water 
when  they  begin  to  cook.  Test  with  a  straw  when  they 
are  tender,  and  baste  twice  at  the  last  with  butter.  Lay  the 
egg  plants  in  a  dish,  add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream  to  the  gravy,  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  put  in  a 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  boil  up  once,  and  pour 
over  the  vegetable. 

Boiled  Carrots. 
Wash  and  scrape  well,  and  lay  in  cold  water  half  an 


223 

across  in  two  or  three 
ghtly  salted,  and  boil 
juire  Dearly  an  hour 
rota  should  only  be 
the  skin  be  rubbed  oS 
1,  and  serve  hot. 


alf  an  hour  or  more. 
IT,  drain,  aud  cut  into 
:k.  Put  on  in  a  sauce- 
il,  or  beef,  or  mutton ; 

gently  half  an  hour. 

tablespoonfula  cream 
ter  cut  into  bits,  and 

water,  and  put  in  a 
iucepan  is  set  on  the 
ive  specified. 


lone.  Cut  into  small 
itb  two  small  ouiona, 
,  pepper  and  salt  to 
r  thin  drawn  butter, 
mmering.     Serve  hot. 


water  a  while.  Boil 
'  salt«d.  Drain,  and 
a,  working  in  a  large 
i  salt  A  little  cream 
II  would  mashed  pota- 


22e 


co]Qc<^  nv%m. 


toes,  and  stamp  a  figure  upon  them,  or  mark  in  sqaares 
with  a  knife. 

French,  or  String  or  "Snap"  Bean& 

Break  ofi^the  tops  and  bottoms  and  "  striug  "  carefully. 
Then  pare  both  edges  with  a  sharp  knife,  to  be  certain  that 
no  remnant  of  the  tough  fibre  remains.  Not  one  cook  in 
a  hundred  performs  this  duty  as  deftly  and  thoroughly  as 
it  should  be  done.  I  have  heard  several  gentlemen  say 
that  they  could  always  tell,  after  the  first  mouthful, 
whether  the  mistress  or  the  hireling  had  ''strung"  the 
beans.  It  is  a  tedious  aud  disagreeable  business,  this 
pulling  bits  of  woody  thread  out  of  one's  mouth  when  he 
wants  to  eujoy  his  dinner. 

Cut  the  beans  thus  cleared  of  their  troublesome  aUacheB^ 
in  pieces  an  inch  long,  and  lay  in  cold  water  with  a  little 
salt  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Drain  them,  and  put 
into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Boil  quickly,  twenty 
minutes  if  well-grown — ^less  if  small — at  any  rate,  until 
tender.  Drain  in  a  cullender  until  the  water  ceases  to  drip 
from  them.  Dish  with  a  great  spoonful  of  butter  stirred  in. 

To  my  taste,  beans  need  to  have  a  bit  of  bacon  boiled 
with  them — whole,  or  chopped  into  bits  that  dissolve  in 
the  boiling.  It  mellows  the  rank  taste  you  seek  to  remove 
by  boiling. 

Lima  and  Butter  Beans. 

Shell  into  cold  water ;  let  them  lie  a  while ;  put  into  a 
pot  with  plenty  of  boiling  water  and  a  little  salt,  and  cook 
fast  until  tender.  Large  ones  sometimes  require  nearly 
an  hour's  boiling.  The  average  time  is  forty  minutes. 
Drain  and  butter  well  when  dished,  peppering  to  taste. 

Kidney  and  other  Small  Beans. 
Shell  into  cold  water,  and  cook  in  boiling  until  tender. 


a  IB  ui  advan- 
lit  them. 


water,  chsng- 
done  they  will 
ry  thoroughly, 
1 1  lender  with  a 

great  lump  of 


>efore  they  are 
selves  pale  in 
;cown  at  least 
slice  round  if 
;he  dish.    Salt 

b,  mix  a  great 
f  vinegar,  pcp- 
the  beete. 
!l  over  "  to  the 
use  as  pioklee 


>ne;  skin  and 
xd  shallot  and 
1  like  quantity 
)n  the  fire  and 
ipan  now  and 


pare  oarefuUy, 


228  OOHMON  BEVBE. 

and  if  large,  split.  Put  into  boiling  water,  salted,  and 
boil,  if  small  and  tender,  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  if  full-grown,  more  than  an  hour.  When  tender, 
drain  and  slice  lengthwise,  buttering  well  when  you  dish. 

Fried  Parsnips.  >{< 
Boil  until  tender,  scrape  off  the  skin,  and  cut  in  thick 
lengthwise  slices.     Dredge  with  flour  and  fry  in  hot  drip- 
ping or  lard,  turning  when  one  side  is  browned.    Drain 
off  every  drop  of  fat;  pepper,  and  serve  hot 

Parsnip  FRirrERa  >J< 

Boil  tender,  mash  smooth  and  fine,  picking  out  the 
woody  bits.  For  three  large  parsnips  allow  two  eggs,  one 
cup  rich  milk,  one  tablespoon&I  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  flour.  Q^t  the  eggs  light,  stir 
in  the  mashed  parsnips,  beating  hard ;  then  the  butter  and 
salt,  next  the  milk,  lastly  the  salt.  Fry  as  fritters,  or  as 
griddle-cakes. 

Mashed  Parsnips. 

Boil  and  scrape  them,  mash  smooth  with  the  back  of  a 
wooden-spoon,  or  a  potato  beetle,  picking  out  the  fibres; 
mix  in  three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  great  spoonful 
of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Heat  to  boiling  in  a 
saucepan,  and  serve.  Heap  in  a  mound  as  you  would 
potato  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

Buttered  Parsnips. 

Boil  tender  and  scrape.  Slice  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick  lengthwise.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little 
chopped  parsley.  Shake  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture 
boils.     Lay  the  parsnips  in  order  upon  a  dish,  pour  the 


It  is  a  plea^ 
jIh  of  cream 
1  out;    boil 


It  over  care- 
t  into  salted 
inutes  UDtil 
I  the  bottom 
of  the  sea- 
abundantly, 
awn  butter. 


lUDchea,  and 
a,  put  into  a 
Boil  fifteen 
iturn  to  the 
■■  it.     If  not, 

:n  minutes. 


alks  close  to 
r  two  hours, 
ermost,  with 
wo.  Boil  an 
ige  io  circles 
butter  over 


but  the  gen- 


^  OOKMON  SENSE. 

eral  rules  for  cooking  them  are  the  same.  Unless  thej 
are  extremely  tender,  it  b  best  to  pare  them,  cutting  awa j 
as  little  as  possible  besides  the  hard  outer  rind.  Take  out 
the  seeds,  when  you  have  quartered  them,  and  lay  the 
pieces  in  cold  water.  Boil  until  tender  throughout  Drain 
well,  pressing  out  all  the  water;  mash  soft  and  smooth, 
seasoning  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  Do  this  quickly, 
that  you  may  serve  up  hot. 

Winter  Squash. 

Pare,  take  out  the  seeds,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  stew 
until  soft  and  tender.  Drain,  press  well,  to  rid  it  of  all 
the  water,  aod  mash  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  It  will 
take  much  longer  to  cook  than  the  summer  squash,  and 
before  you  put  it  into  hot  water,  should  lie  in  cold  at  least 
two  hours. 

Stewed  Pumpkin. 

Cut  in  two,  extract  the  seeds,  slice,  and  pare.  Cover 
with  cold  water  for  an  hour ;  put  over  the  fire  in  a  pot  of 
boiling  water  and  stew  gently,  stirring  often,  until  it 
breaks  to  pieces.  Drain  and  squeeze,  rub  through  a  cul- 
lender, then  return  to  the  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Stir  rapidly  from  the 
bottom  until  very  hot,  when  dish,  rounding  into  a  mound, 
with  "  dabs  "  of  pepper  on  the  top. 

Baked  Pumpkin. 

Choose  the  richest  pumpkin  you  can  find ;  take  out  th& 
seeds,  cut  in  quarters  or  eighths,  pare,  and  slice  lengthwise 
half  an  inch  thick.  Arrange  in  layers — not  more  than 
two  or  three  slices  deep — in  a  shallow  but  broad  baking- 
dish.  Put  a  very  little  water  in  the  bottom,  and  bake 
vwj  slowly  until  i^ot  only  dofte,  bat  dry.    It  requires  a 


•j:  :i:^»:« 


231 


long  time,  for  the  heat  should  be  gentle.  Butter  each 
strip  on  both  sides  when  jou  dish,  and  eat  hot  with  bread 
and  butter  for  tea. 

I  have  been  assured,  by  people  who  have  tried  it,  that 
this  is  a  palatable  dish  to  those  who  are  fond  of  the  flavor 
of  pumpkin.  I  insert  it  here  upon  their  recommendation 
— ^not  my  own. 

Poke  Stalks. 
When  the  young  stalks  are  not  larger  than  a  man's 
little  finger,  and  show  only  a  tuft  of  leaves  at  top  a  few 
inches  above  ground,  is  the  time  to  gather  them.  They 
are  unfit  for  table-use  when  larger  and  older.  Scrape  the 
stalks,  but  do  not  cut  ofi*the  leaves.  Lay  in  cold  water, 
with  a  little  salt,  for  two  hours.  Tie  in  bundles,  as  you 
do  asparagus,  put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiliDg  water,  and 
cook  fiist  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Lay  buttered  toast 
in  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  untie  the  bundles,  and  pile  the 
poke  evenly  upon  it,  buttering  very  well,  and  sprinkling 
with  pepper  and  salt  This  is  a  tolerable  substitute  for 
asparagus. 

MUSHBOOMB. 

Imprimis. — Have  nothing  to  do  with  them  until  you 
are  an  excellent  judge  between  the  true  and  false.  That 
sounds  somewhat  like  the  advice  of  the  careful  mother  to 
her  son,  touching  the  wisdom  of  never  going  near  the  water 
until  he  learned  how  to  swim — but  the  caution  can  hardly 
be  stated  too  strongly.  Not  being  ambitious  of  martyr- 
dom, even  in  the  cause  of  gastronomical  enterprise,  espe- 
cially if  the  instrument  is  to  be  a  contemptible,  rank-smell- 
ing fungus,  I  never  eat  or  cook  native  mushrooms ;  but  I 
learned,  years  ago,  in  hill-side  rambles,  how  to  distinguish 
the  real  from  the  spurious  article.  Shun  low,  damp,  shady 
spots  in  your  quest.  The  good  mushrooms  are  most  plenty 


232 


COMMON  SBVafi. 


in  August  and  September,  and  spring  up  in  the  open^ 
sunnj  fields  or  commons,  after  low-lying  fogs  or  soaking 
dews.  The  top  is  a  dirty  white, — -par  complaisance,  pearl- 
oolor, — the  under  side  pink  or  salmon,  changing  to  russet 
or  brown  soon  after  they  are  gathered.  The  poisonous 
sport  all  colors,  and  are  usually  far  prettier  than  their 
virtuous  kindred.  Those  which  are  dead-white  above 
and  below,  as  well  as  the  stalk,  are  also  to  be  let  alone. 

Ckx>k  a  peeled  white  onion  in  the  pot  with  your  mush- 
rooms. If  it  turn  black,  throw  all  away,  and  be  properly 
thankful  for  your  escape.  It  is  also  dcemcil  safe  to  reject 
the  mess  of  wild  pottage,  if  in  stirring  them,  your  silver 
spoon  should  blacken.  But  I  certainly  once  knew  a  lady 
who  did  not  discover  until  hers  were  eaten  and  partially 
digested,  that  the  silver  had  come  to  grief  in  the  discharge 
of  dut;.  It  was  very  dark,  and  required  a  deal  of  rub- 
bing to  restore  cleanliness  and  polish  ;  but  the  poison — if 
death  were,  indeed,  in  the  pot — ^was  slow  in  its  effects, 
since  she  lived  many  years  after  the  experiment.  It  is  aa 
well  perhaps,  though,  not  to  repeat  it  too  often. 

To  re-capitulate. — ^The  eatable  ones  are  round  when 
they  first  show  their  heads  in  a  critical  world.  As  they 
grow,  the  lower  part  unfolds  a  lining  of  salmon  fringe, 
while  the  stalk  and  top  are  dirty  white.  When  the 
mushroom  is  more  than  twenty-four  hours  old,  or  within 
a  few  hours  after  it  is  gathered,  the  salmon  changes  to 
brown.  The  skin  can  also  be  more  easily  peeled  from 
the  edges  than  in  the  spurious  kinds. 


Stewed  Mushrooms. 

Choose  button  mushrooms  of  uniform  size.  Wipe  clean 
and  white  with  a  wet  flannel  cloth,  and  cut  off  the  stalks. 
Put  into  a  porcelain  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and 
stew  very  gently  fifteen  minutes.    Salt  to  taste;  add  a 


iiied  into  bite  and  rolled  id 
liuutea ;  stir  io  three  or  four 
lipped  up  with  an  ^yi;,  atir 
t  boil,  and  serve. 

t  water  ten  minutes ;  strain 
much  warm  milk  as  jou  have 
ninutes  in  thb;  salt  and  pep- 
icken  grwy,  or  drawn  butter, 
et  in  cold  milk,  and  a  beaten 


I  IS  not  very  important, — out 
1  wipe  off  the  skin  with  wet 
a  pie-dbh,  pepper  and  salt, 
them,  and  hiy  a  bit  of  butter 
If  aa  hour,  basting  now  and 
;hat  they  may  not  be  too  dry, 
they  were  baked,  with  vmUto 


t  you  can  get,  score  the  under 
i.  Put  into  a  deep  dish  and 
with  melted  butter.  Salt  and 
be  butter  an  hour  and  a  half, 
fire,  using  an  oyster-grid irou, 
lide  browns.  Serve  hot,  well 
uid  squeeze  a  few  drops  of 


ERY- 

ka  when  you  have  cut  off  the 


234  COMMON  'B£^E. 

roots.  Cut  off  the  green  leaves  and  reject  the  greenest, 
toughest  stalks.  Retain  the  blaoched  leaves  that  grow 
nearest  the  heart  Keep  in  cold  water  until  you  send  to 
table.  Serve  in  a  celery  glass,  and  let  each  guest  dip  in 
salt  for  himself.     {See  Celery  Salad,) 

Stewed  Celebt.  >J< 

1  bunch  of  celery — scraped,  trimmed,  and  cut  into 

inch  lengths. 
1  cup  milk. 

1  great  spoonful  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour. 
Pepper  and  salt. 
Stew  the  celery  in  clear  water  until  tender.     Turn  off 
the  water,  add  the  milk,  and  as  soon  as  this  boils,  season- 
ing and  butter.    Boil  up  once  and  serve  very  hot 

Radishes. 

A  friend  of  mine,  after  many  and  woful  trials  with  "the 
greatest  plague  of  life,"  engaged  a  supercilious  young 
lady  who  ''ouly  hired  out  in  the  best  of  families  as  a  pro- 
fessed cook."  She  arrived  in  the  afternoon,  and  was  told 
that  tea  would  be  a  simple  affair — bread  and-butter,  cold 
meat,  cake,  and  a  dish  of  radishes,  which  were  brought  in 
from  the  garden  as  the  order  was  given.  The  lady  was 
summoned  to  the  parlor  at  that  moment,  and  remarked  in 
leaving — "  You  can  prepare  those  now,  Bridget."  Awhile 
later  she  peeped  into  the  kitchen,  attracted  by  the  odor  of 
hot  fat.  The  frying-pan  hissed  on  the  fire,  the  contents 
were  a  half-pound  of  butter,  and  the  "professional" 
stood  at  the  table  with  a  radish  topped  and  tailed  in  one 
hand,  a  knife  in  the  other.  "  I  m  glad  to  see  ye,"  thus 
she  greeted  the  intruder.  "  Is  it  paled  or  onpaled  ye'U 
have  them  radishes  ?    Some  of  the  quality  likes  *em  fried 


'286 

I  thought  I'd  wftit  and 

wn  choice  in  the  matter 
of  the  question.  Wash 
D  as  they  are  gathered, 
cfast  or  supper  is  ready, 
i  on ;  scrape  off  the  ekin 
i  prettier  if  you  do  not ; 
I  glass  saucer,  the  stalks 
centre ;  lay  craeked  ice 
Scrape  and  quarter  the 

3eth,  look  cool,  and  taste 


salted  hot  nater  to  cover 
ugfaly,  and  when  dished 
or  four  spoonfuls  melted 
1  of  vinegar,  pepper,  and 
fore  covering  the  okras 

INT. 

:ed,  not  ground  com,  is 
IJorthern  grocers.  This 
ained.  To  avoid  confu* 
i  other  small.  Soak  the 
Next  day  put  it  into  a 
water  to  a  quart  of  the 
ours,  or  until  it  is  soft, 
t-diati,  and  stir  in  butter, 

lame  way,  and  boil  in  as 
often,  almoflt  constantly 


OOXHOIf  SENBE. 

e  laaL  It  shoulcl  be  as  thick  as  musli,  and  ia  gen» 
eateD  at  breakfoet  with  sugar,  cream,  and  nutmeg, 
a  good  and  exceedingly  vholesome  diah,  especially 
hildreo.  The  vater  in  which  it  ia  boiled  should  be 
ly  salt.  If  soaked  in  warm  water,  and  the  same  be 
^  once  or  twice  for  warmer,  it  will  boil  soft  in  an 
Boil  in  the  last  water. 

Fried  Homint. 
large,  put  a  good  lump  of  butter  or  dripping  in  the 
^pan,  and  heat-  Turn  in  same  cold  boiled  hominy, 
ook  until  the  under-side  is  browned.  Place  a  dish 
e  down  on  the  frying-pan  and  upset  the  latter,  that 
rOWD  crust  may  be  upppermost, 
t  with  meat. 

t  the  small  hominy  In  slices  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or 
ings.  Or,  moisten  to  a  soft  paste  with  milk  ;  beat  in 
melted  butter,  bind  with  a  beaten  egg,  form  into 
1  cakes  with  your  hands,  dredge  with  flour  and  fry  a 
brown. 

HouiMY  Cboquettes.  4< 
a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  hominy  (small-grained)  add  a 
ipoonful  melted  butter  and  stir  hard,  moistening,  by 
es,  with  a  little  milk,  beating  to  a  soft  light  paste. 
1  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  and  lastly,  a  well- 
a  egg.  Roll  into  oval  balls  with  floured  hands,  dip 
Lten  egg,  then  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard, 
ry  goodi 

Baked  Houikt.  •it' 
a  capAil  of  cold  boiled  hominy  (small  kind)  allow 
ups  of  milk,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  t«a- 
fu]  of  white  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  three  ^gs.  Beat 
^  very  light,  yolks  and  whites  separately.     Work 


HOMXinr.  237 

the  jolks  first  into  the  hominy,  alternately  with  the  melted 
butter.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  put  in  sugar  and  salt, 
and  go  on  beating  while  you  soften  the  batter  gradually 
with  the  milk.  Be  careful  to  leave  no  lumps  in  the  hominy. 
Lastly  stir  in  the  whites,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding- 
dish,  until  light,  firm,  and  delicately  browned. 

This  can  be  eaten  as  a  dessert,  but  it  is  a  delightful  ve- 
getable, and  the  best  substitute  that  can  be  devised  for 
green  com  pudding. 

Rice  Croquettes.  >J< 

Half  a  cup  of  rice. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

A  little  grated  lemon-peel. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
A  saltspoonful  salt. 

Soak  the  rice  three  hours  in  warm  water  enough  to 
cover  it  Drain  almod  dry,  and  pour  in  the  milk.  Stew 
in  a  farina-kettle,  or  one  saucepan  set  in  another  of  hot 
water,  until  the  rice  is  very  tender.  Add  the  sugar,  butter 
and  salt,  and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Whisk  the  eggs  to  a 
froth,  and  add  cautiously,  taking  the  saucepan  from  the 
fire  while  you  whip  them  into  the  mixture.  Return  to  the 
range  or  stove,  and  stir  while  they  thicken,  not  allowing 
them  to  boil.  Remove  the  saucepan,  and  add  the  grated 
lemon-peel;  then  turn  out  upon  a  well  greased  dish  to 
cool.  When  cold  and  stiff,  flour  your  hands  and  roll  into 
oval  or  pear-shaped  balls;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  fine 
cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in  lard.  Croquettes  should  be 
made  out  some  hours  before  they  are  fried. 

Or. 
Tou  can  make  a  plainer  dish  of  cold  boiled  rice,  mois- 


2«38  COMMON  SENSE. 

tened  with  milk  and  a  little  melted  butter  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Add  sugar  aud  salt,  bind  with  two  or  three  beaten 
eggs ;  make  into  cakes  or  balls,  and  proceed  as  directed 
above.  Eat  hot  with  roast  or  boiled  fowls.  If  you  shape 
like  a  pe?.r,  stick  a  clove  in  the  small  end  for  the  stem. 

Boiled  Bice. 

Pick  over  carefully  and  wash  in  two  waters,  letting  it 
stand  in  the  last  until  you  are  ready  to  boil.  Have  ready 
some  boiling  water  slightly  salted,  and  put  in  the  rice, 
a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  steadily.  Boil  it  just  twenty 
minutes,  and  do  not  put  a  spoon  in  it,  but  shake  up  hard 
and  often.  When  done,  drain  off  the  water,  and  set  the 
saucepan  uncovered  upon  the  range,  where  the  rice  will 
dry,  not  burn,  for  five  minutes. 

Eat  with  boiled  mutton  or  fowls. 

Baked  Macaroni.  SB 

Break  half  a  pound  of  pipe  macaroni  into  pieces  an  inch 
long,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  slightly 
salted.  Stew  gently  twenty  minutes.  It  should  be  soft, 
hut  not  broken  or  split.  Drain  well  and  put  a  layer  in 
the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pie  or  pudding-diah ;  upon  this 
grate  some  mild,  rich  chei^se,  and  scatter  over  it  some  bits 
of  butter.  Spread  upon  the  cheese  more  macaroni,  and 
fill  the  dish  in  tliis  order,  having  macaroni  at  the  top, 
buttered  well,  without  the  cheese.  Add  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  cream  or  milk,  and  a  very  little  salt.  Bake  covered  half 
an  hour,  then  brown  nicely,  and  serve  in  the  bake-dish. 

Stewed  Macaroni — Italian  Style. 

Break  the  macaroni  into  inch  lengths,  and  stew  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  tender.  Prepare  the  sauce  beforehand. 
Cut  half  a  pound  of  beef  into  strips  and  stew  half  an  hour. 


33D 

the  meat  is  put  in.  At 
iced  onion  and  a  pint  of 
1  for  an  liour,  and  strain 
ive  taken  out  the  meat, 
lown  hj  this  time.  You 
IT  a  large  dish  of  maca- 
I  saucepan,  add  a  good 

suit,  and  etevi  untJi  you 
Drain  this  well,  Bprinkle 

a  chafing-dish  or  in  a 
36  over  it ;  cover  and  let 
linutes  ttefore  sending  to 
se  with  it.  The  Italians 
dish  as  a  ragoCt,  adding 
d  with  pepper  and  other 

lutea  in  boiling  water. 
j|  of  milk,  with  a  little 
:her  saucepan  heat  a  cup 
a  teaspoonful  of  flour, 

and  lastly,  a  beaten  egg. 
the  macaroni  after  it  is 

assert,  eaten  with  butter, 
e.  If  set  on  with  meat, 
send  around  a  saucer  of 


line)  whether  an  egg  is 
gg  in  the  hollow  of  the 
the  sun  through  it  with 
ctly  trace  the  outline  of 


240  COMMON  8EN8E. 

the  yolk  and  the  white  looks  clear  around  it,  the  chances 
lire  in  favor  of  the  egg  and  the  buyer.  Or,  shake  it 
gently  at  your  ear.  If  addled,  it  will  gurgle  like  water ; 
if  there  is  a  chicken  inside,  you  may  distinguish  a  slight 
**  thud  "  against  the  sides  of  the  egg.  Or,  still  again,  you 
may  try  eggs  from  your  own  poultry-yard  by  putting 
them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water.  The  freshest  sink  first. 
Those  that  float  are  questionable — generally  worse. 

The  best  plan  is  to  break  them.  In  making  cake,  or 
anything  that  requires  more  than  one,  break  each  over  a 
saucer,  that  it  may  be  alone  in  its  condemnation,  if  bad. 
Reject  doubtful  ones  without  hesitation.  Yield  implicit 
trust,  or  none  at  all. 

Keep  eggs  in  a  cool,  not  cold  place.  Pack  in  bran  or 
salt,  with  the  small  end  downward,  if  you  wish  to  use 
within  two  or  three  weeks ;  and  furthermore,  take  the 
precaution  to  grease  them  well  with  linseed  oil,  or  wash 
them  over  with  a  weak  solution  of  gum  tragacanth  or 
varnish.  This  excludes  the  air.  Another  way  is  to  make 
some  pretty  strong  lime-water,  allowing  a  pound  of  lime 
to  a  gallon  of  boiling  water.  When  perfectly  cold,  fill  a 
large  jar  with  it  in  which  you  have  packed  the  eggs, 
small  end  downward  ;  lay  a  light  saucer  upon  the  top  to 
keep  them  under  water,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Re- 
new the  lime-water  every  three  weeks.  You  may  add  an 
ounce  of  saltpetre  to  it. 

^SS^  ^^P  boiling  may  be  "  canned  *'  as  follows :  So  soon 
as  they  are  brought  in  from  the  nests,  put  two  or  three 
dozen  at  a  time  in  a  deep  pan ;  pour  scalding  water  over 
them ;  let  it  stand  thirty  seconds,  and  turn  it  all  ofil  Cover 
immediately  with  more  scalding  water,  and  repeat  the 
process  yet  the  third  time.  Wipe  dry,  and  pack  in  bran 
or  salt  when  they  cool.  This  hardens  the  albumen  into 
an  air-tight  case  for  the  yolk.     Of  course,  you  cannot  use 


EoecL  241 

these  eggg  for  cake  or  eyllabubs,  or  anything  that  is 
prepared  with  whipped  eggs.  Pack  with  the  small  end 
down. 

Boiled  Eggs. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon, 
not  to  break  or  crack  them.  Only  a  slovenly  cook,  or  a 
careless  one,  drops  thctn  in  with  her  fingers.  Boil  steadily 
three  minutes,  if  you  want  them  soft — ten,  if  hard. 

Another  way  is  to  put  them  on  in  cold  water,  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  which  will  be  in  ten  minutes.  The  inside, 
white  and  yolk,  will  be  then  of  the  consistency  of  custard. 
Many  gourmands  like  them  best  thus.  Still  another  is  to 
put  them  in  one  of  the  silver  egg-boilers  used  on  the  break- 
fast-table (a  covered  bowl  will  do  as  well) ;  cover  them 
with  boiling  water,  and  let  them  stand  three  minutes. 
Pour  this  off,  and  refill  with  more,  also  boiling  hot,  and 
leave  them  in  it  five  minutes  longer.  Wrap  in  a  napkin 
in  a  deep  dish,  if  you  have  not  a  regular  egg-dish. 

Dropped  or  Poached  Eggs. 

Strain  some  boiling  water  into  a  frying-pan,  which  must 
also  be  perfectly  clean.  The  least  impurity  will  mar  the 
whiteness  of  the  eggs.  When  the  water  boils,  break  the 
eggs  separately  into  a  saucer.  Take  the  frying-pan  off, 
and  slip  the  eggs,  one  by  one,  carefully  upon  the  surface. 
When  all  are  in,  put  back  over  the  fire  and  boil  gently 
three  minutes.  Take  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  drain, 
and  lay  upon  slices  of  buttered  toast  in  a  hot  dish.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley,  and  dust  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Poached  Eggs  a  la  Crehe.  >{< 

Nearly  fill  a  clean  frying-pan  with  strained  water  boil- 
ing-hot ;  strain  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  through  double 
11 


242  COMMOK  SKKQE. 

inufiliii,  and  add  to  the  water  with  a  little  salt  Slip  your 
^gs  from  the  saucer  upon  the  top  of  the  water  (first  takiug 
the  pan  from  the  fire.)  Boil  three  minutes  and  a  half, 
drain,  and  lav  on  buttered  toast  in  a  hot  di^h.  Turn  the 
water  from  the  pan  and  pour  in  half  a  cupful  of  cream  or 
milk.  If  you  use  the  latter,  thicken  with  a  very  little 
corn-starch.  Let  it  heat  to  a  boil,  stirring  to  prevent  burn- 
ing, and  add  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  some  pepper  and 
salt.  Boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the  eggs.  A  better  way 
still  is  to  heat  the  milk  in  a  separate  saucepan,  that  the 
eggs  may  not  have  to  stand.  A  little  broth  improves  the 
sauce. 

Ham  and  Egos. 

Fry  the  eggs  in  a  little  very  nice  salted  lard ;  drain  off 
every  drop  of  grease,  and  lay  them  upon  a  hot  dish,  with 
neat  slices  of  fried  ham  around  the  edges,  half  the  siase 
of  the  slice  as  first  carved  from  the  ham.  Trim  ofiT  the 
rough  edges  of  the  eggs,  and  cut  the  ham  evenly  in  oblong 
pieces  before  dishing.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Fried  Eggs. 

Melt  some  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  hisses 
drop  in  the  eggs  carefully.  Fry  three  minutes ;  dust 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  transfer  to  a  hot  dish. 

Fricasseed  Egg8.>J< 
Boil  the  eggs  hard,  cut  in  half  crosswise,  and  take  out 
the  yolks.  Chop  these  fine,  or  rub  to  a  paste,  with  a  lit- 
tle ground  tongue  or  ham  or  cold  fowl,  some  minced 
parsley,  some  melted  butter,  and  a  very  little  made  mus- 
tard. Work  well  together  and  fill  the  whites  with  it, 
setting  them  close  together  in  a  deep  covered  dish,  the 
open  ends  up.     Have  ready  some  veal  gravy  or  chicken 


Q  &  saucepan  with  a  half  teaapoon- 
it,  pepper,  and  lastly  three  table- 
1  cup  of  broth.  Boil  up ;  pour 
'g^i  let  them  stand  fire  minutes, 
1  to  table. 

nsive  dbh.  Eggs  are  always  a 
)r  a  small  family  than  meat,  even 
Biz  will  make  a  nice  quantity  of 
a  delicious  relish.  Always  drop 
Id  water  as  soon  as  they  are  done, 
n  turning  black. 

>ED  Eoas.     >i« 

round  thick  slices.  Pepper  and 
-aw  egg,  then  in  Sue  bread-crumbs 
d  fry  in  nice  drippiog  or  butter, 

every  drop  of  grease,  and  serve 
la»t,  with  sauce,  like  that  for  fii- 
r  them. 

K£D  Egos. 

■ggf^  into  a  buttered  dish,  taking 
and  does  not  encroach  upon  the 
[  or  disturb  the  yolks.  Sprinkle 
id  put  a  bit  of  butter  upon  each, 
iko  until  the  whites  are  well  set. 
iinds  of  buttered  toast,  or  sond- 

ILED  E008.»{" 

itter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it 
which  should  bo  broken  whole 
h  them  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
ad  keep  stirring  to  and  fro,  up 


244  COMlfOH  8E1TSB. 

and  down,  without  cessation,  for  three  minutes.  Turn  out 
at  once  into  a  hot  dish,  or  upon  buttered  toast  and  eat 
without  delay. 

Chinese  Bird' s-N est  of  Eggs. 
Make  a  white  sauce  as  follows :  Stew  half  a  pound  of 
lean  veal,  cut  into  strips,  with  a  large  sprig  of  parsley,  in 
a  quart  of  water,  until  the  meat  is  in  rags,  and  the  liquor 
reduced  one-half.  Strain  through  tarlatan  or  lace,  and 
return  to  the  saucepan  with  half  a  cupful  of  milk.  When 
it  boils,  thicken  with  a  little  rice  or  wheat  flour,  season 
with  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Set  in  the  corner  to  keep  hot  Have  ready  six,  or  eight, 
or  ten  hard-boiled  eggs.  Take  out  the  yolks  carefully, 
and  cut  the  whites  into  thin  shreds.  Pile  the  yolks  in  the 
centre  of  a  round,  shallow  dish,  arrange'  the  shreds  of 
white  about  them  in  the  shape  of  a  bird's  nest ;  give  a 
final  stir  to  the  sauce,  and  pour  carefully  over  the  eggs. 
It  should  not  rise  higher  in  the  dish  than  half  way  to  the 
top  of  the  nest,  when  it  flows  down  to  its  level.  Ghunish 
with  parsley. 

Scalloped  Eggs.  >{< 
Make  a  force-meat  of  chopped  ham — ground  is  better — 
fine  bread-crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  minced  parsley,  and 
some  melted  butter.  Moisten  with  milk  to  a  soft  pa^stcy 
and  half  fill  some  patty-pans  or  scallop-shells  with  the 
mixture.  Break  an  egg  carefully  upon  the  top  of  each, 
dust  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  sift  some  very  finely  pow- 
dered cracker  over  all.  Set  in  the  oven,  and  bake  until 
the  eggs  are  well  set — about  eight  minutes.  Eat  hot. 
They  are  very  nice.  You  can  substitute  ground  tongue  for 
the  ham. 

Poached  Eggs,  with  Sattce.  >J< 
Make  the  sauce  by  putting  half  a  cupfiil  of  hot  water 


245 

in  a  saucepan,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juioe,  three 
tableepoonfals  of  veal  or  chicken  broth  (strained),  pepper, 
salt,  mace,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  a  little 
minced  parsley.  Boil  slowly  ten  minutes,  and  stir  in  a 
well-whipped  egg  carefully,  lest  it  should  curdla  Have 
ready  some  poached  eggs  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  them. 

Egos  upon  Toast.  >J< 

Put  a  good  lump  of  butter  into  the  frying-pan.  When 
it  is  hot,  stir  in  four  or  five  well-beaten  eggs,  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  parsley.  Stir  and  toss  for  three  minutes. 
Have  ready  to  your  hand  some  slices  of  buttered  toast  (cut 
round  with  a  tin  cake-cutter  before  they  are  toasted) ; 
spread  thickly  with  ground  or  minced  tongue,  chicken,  or 
ham.  Heap  the  stirred  egg  upon  these  in  mounds,  and  set 
in  a  hot  dish  garnished  with  parsley  and  pickled  beets. 

Eggs  au  Lit  (in  bed).  >J< 

Mince  some  cold  fowl — chicken,  turkey,  or  duck,  or 
some  cold  boiled  veal  and  ham  in  equal  quantities  — very 
fine,  and  rub  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  adding  by  degrees 
some  melted  butter,  pepper,  salt,  minced  parsley,  and  two 
beaten  eggs.  Warm  in  a  frying-pan  when  it  is  well  mixed, 
stirring  in  a  little  hot  water  should  it  dry  too  fast.  Cook 
five  minutes,  stirring  to  keep  it  from  scorching  or  brown- 
ing. Form  on  a  hot  platter  or  flat  dish  into  a  mound,  flat 
on  top,  with  a  ridge  of  the  mixture  running  all  around.  It 
is  easily  moulded  with  a  broad-bladed  knife.  In  the  dish 
thus  formed,  on  the  top  of  the  mince-meat,  lay  as  many 
poached  eggs  as  it  will  hold,  sprinkling  them  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Arrange  triangles  of  buttered  toast  in  such 
order,  at  the  base  of  the  mound,  that  they  shall  make  a 
pointed  wall  against  it. 


246  commok  sense. 

Devilled  Egos. 

Boil  six  or  eight  eggs  hard ;  leave  in  cold  water  until 
they  are  cold ;  cut  in  halves,  slicing  a  bit  off  the  bottoms 
to  make  them  stand  upright,  a  la  Columbus.  Extract  the 
yolks,  and  rub  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  very  little  melted 
butter,  some  cayenne  pepper,  a  touch  of  mustard,  and  just 
a  dash  of  vinegar.  Fill  the  hollowed  whites  with  this,  and 
send  to  table  upon  a  bed  of  chopped  cresses,  seasoned  with 
pepper,  salt,  vinegar,  and  a  little  sugar.  The  salad  should 
be  two  inches  thick,  and  an  egg  be  served  with  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  it.  You  may  use  lettuce  or  white  cab- 
bage instead  of  cresses. 

Ego-Baskets.  >J« 

Make  these  for  breakfast  the  day  after  you  have  had 
roast  chicken,  duck,  or  turkey  for  dinner.  Boil  six  eggs 
hard,  cut  neatly  in  half  and  extract  the  yolks.  Bub  these 
to  a  paste  with  some  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt, 
and  set  aside.  Pound  the  minced  meat  of  the  cold  fowl 
fine  in  the  same  manner,  and  mix  with  the  egg- paste,  moist- 
ening with  melted  butter  as  you  proceed,  or  with  a  little 
gravy,  if  you  have  it  to  spare.  Cut  off  a  slice  from  the 
bottoms  of  the  hollowed  whites  of  the  egg,  to  make  them 
stand ;  fill  with  the  paste ;  arrange  close  together  upon  a 
flat  dish,  and  pour  over  them  the  gravy  left  from  yester- 
day's roast,  heated  boiling  hot,  and  mellowed  by  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  cream  or  rich  milk. 

Omelette  (plain),  >J< 

Beat  six  eggs  very  light,  whites  stiff,  yolks  to  a  smooth, 
thick  batter.  Add  to  yolks  a  small  cupful  milk,  pepper, 
and  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  fine  crumbs,  soaked  in  milk ; 
lastly,  stir  in  the  whites  lightly.     Have  ready  in  a  hot 


J 


248  common  ben8e. 

Asparagus  Omelette  >{< 
Id  made  of  the  tops  only,  minced  and  seasoned/and  stirred 
in  as  is  the  cauliflower.     Tomato  omeleUe  has  stewed  to- 
mato spread  over  the  sur&ce,  and  is  then  doubled  in  half. 

£OQ-BALL8   FOR  SoUP.  ^ 

Rub  the  yolks  of  three  or  four  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  a  very  little  melted  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt.  To  these  add  two  raw  ones,  beaten  light,  and  enough 
flour  to  hold  the  paste  together.  Mince  into  balls  with 
floured  hands  and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  just  before  your 
soup  comes  ofi",  when  put  in  carefully  and  boil  one  minute. 

Omelette  aux  Fines  Herbes. 

After  the  yolks  and  whites  are  mixed  together  with  the 

H^milk,  stir  in,  with  two  or  three  strokes  of  the  spoon  or 

whisk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  green  thyme, 

and  sweet  marjoram,  with  pepper  and  salt.   Fry  instantly. 

Cheese  Omelettes. 
Grate  some  rich  old  cheese,  and  having  mixed  the  ome- 
lette as  usual,  stir  in  the  cheese  with  a  swift  turn  or  two 
of  the  whisk,  and  at  the  same  time  some  chopped  parsley 
and  thyme.  If  you  beat  long  the  cheese  will  separate  the 
milk  from  the  eggs.     Cook  at  onca 

Or, 
Make  the  omelette  in  the  usual  way ;  grate  cheese  upon  it 
and  fold  it  over. 

Sweet  Omelettes. 
OmeleUe  Soufflee — {Fried.) 
6  eggs. 
4  tablespoonfuls  sugar  (powdered.) 

1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

2  tablespoonftils  butter. 


yiDi 


ick 


250  COMMON  gESlBE, 

Btew  the  apples,  when  jou  have  pared  and  cored  them, 
as  for  apple-sauce.  Beat  them  verj  smooth  while  hot, 
adding  the  butter,  sugar,  and  nutmeg.  When  perfectly 
cold,  put  with  the  egg^^  which  should  be  whipped  light, 
jolks  and  whites  separately.  Put  in  the  yolks  first,  then 
the  rosewater,  lastly  the  whites,  and  pour  into  a  deep 
bake-dish,  which  has  been  warmed  and  buttered.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  it  is  delicately  browned.  Eat 
warm — not  hot — for  tea,  with  Graham  bread.  It  is  better 
for  children — I  say  nothing  of  their  elders— than  cake 
and  preserves. 

Omelette  wrrn  Jelly. 

Currant  or  other  tart  jelly 
6  eggs. 

4  tablespoonfuls  cream,  or  the  same  of  milk,  thick- 
ened with  a  teaspoonful  of  rice-flour  or  arrow-root 
2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  bitter  almond  or  vanilla  flavoring. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately,  adding  to  the  latter 
the  sugar  and  milk  after  they  are  thick  and  smooth. 
Next,  chop  in  the  seasoning ;  lastly,  stir  in  the  whites  with 
a  few  swift  strokes.  Put  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  in  the 
frying-pan,  and,  when  it  is  hot,  pour  in  the  omelette. 
Spread  upon  it  when  done,  which  will  be  in  a  very  few 
minutes,  some  nice  jelly.  Take  the  pan  from  the  fire  to 
do  this,  spread  quickly,  slip  your  knife  or  tin  spatula  un- 
der one-half  of  the  omelette,  and  double  it  over.  Turn 
over  on  a  hot  platter,  sift  powdered  sugar  upon  it»  and  eat 
at  once. 


b  to  keep 
n  it  iota 
eoent  eca 
th  no  Bea 
!ted.  Set 
drowned 
lies.  In  t 
ave  need 
le  second 
crock  in 
utter-mak 
ight  the  < 
1  of  letti 

custom, 
iitional  tr 
n  "  ioppei 
bitter  or  i 
ed  betwec 
be  the  ur 
Tongly-fla 
orhood  of 
and  whei 

Have  ei 
im  to  be  ] 

r  Bprisg  ^ 
9t,  until  t) 
I,  show  th 
y.  The  I 
ber  pour  i 
er  oome  s 
ruing  it  o 


252 


OOUMON  SSKBK. 


ously  just  below  the  surface  of  the  butter-milk,  to  cateb 
every  stray  bit.  Have  ready  some  clean,  very  cold  water, 
in  a  deep  wooden  tray,  and  into  this  plunge  the  dasher 
when  you  draw  it  from  the  churn.  The  butter  will  float 
off,  leaving  the  dasher  free.  Having  collected  every  par- 
ticle, gather  behind  a  wooden  butt^er-shovel  and  drain  off 
the  water,  squeezing  and  pressing  the  butter  with  the  shovel. 
Set  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour  to  harden — a  necessary  meas- 
ure in  summer — ^then  work  and  knead  it  with  a  wooden 
ladle  until  not  another  drop  of  water  exudes,  and  the  but- 
ter is  like  yellow  marble  in  polish  and  closeness  of  pores. 
When  you  have  worked  out  the  butter-milk,  add  by  de- 
grees fine  salt  in  the  proportion  of  a  dessertspoonful  to  every 
pound.  Then  set  aside  for  some  hours,  always  in  a  cool 
place.  The  last  working  is  a  slight  affair,  comparatively. 
Still  using  the  paddle,  and  never,  from  beginning  to  end 
of  the  operation,  touching  with  your  hands,  mould  into 
rolls  or  pound  "pats."  Mark  with  grooves  or  checkers 
with  the  ladle,  or  stamp  with  a  print.  Wrap  each  roll  in 
a  clean  wet  linen  cloth,  which  has  no  touch  of  soap  or 
starch  about  it,  and  pack  in  a  stone  jar,  sprinkling  a  little 
salt  between  the  layers. 

If  you  wish  to  keep  it  a  long  time,  work  with  especial 
care,  and  pack  down  hard  in  a  perfectly  clean  stone  jar. 
Do  not,  above  all  things,  take  one  that  has  ever  been  used 
for  pickles.  You  may  not  detect  the  faintest  odor  linger- 
ing about  it,  but  the  butter  will,  and  absorb  it,  too.  Some 
cover  the  butter  with  strong  brine,  but  a  better  way  b  to 
press  a  fine  linen  cloth  closely  to  the  surfiu^e,  and  cover 
this  with  a  thick  layer  of  clean  fine  salt  Set  in  a  cool, 
dry  place,  and  keep  the  cloth  over  it  all  the  time ;  also  a 
tightly-fitting  lid.  When  you  begin  to  use  it,  take  out 
enough  to  last  a  week,  and  re-cover.  If  you  admit  the  air 
every  day,  it  is  apt  to  grow  strong.    A  pretty  plate  of  bu^ 


f  the  size  of  an  e, 
for  the  purpose 


(BI>MlLE.    •{» 

med  milk  away  in  a 


blanc-  mange — serve 
with  a  large  spoon, 
ered  sugar,  and  uut- 
>e  ice  for  an  hour  be- 
let  it  stand  until  the 

s  healthful  and  cheap 
it  becomes  tart  and 
r  cream  and  sugar. 
3  superior  to  ib 


'e  your  buteber  do  it 
ring  inside  and  out 
ick  upon  a  frame  to 
ores,  and  pack  down 
Then  you  wish  to  use 
water,  wash  well,  and 
k1  to  a  string,  that  it 
the  curd.  The  liquor 
good,  quite  OS  oflen 
lie  dried  or  salted  in 
ires. 

Qg,  or  a  teaspoonfol 
3  each  quart  of  milk. 


254 


COMMON  SEVBR 


Season  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  to  each  part.  More  will  retard  the 
formation.  Set  in  a  warm  place — near  the  fire,  or  on  the 
kitchen  table — closely  covered.  Look  at  it  from  time  to 
time,  and  if,  in  the  course  of  an  hour,  there  are  no  signs 
of  stiiTeniug,  add  more  rennet.  When  it  is  firm,  like 
blanc-mange,  and  before  the  whey  separates  from  the 
curd,  remove  the  rennet,  and  set  upon  ice  until  it  .is 
wanted.    Serve  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

Thickened  Milk. 

Boil  a  quart  of  milk,  add  a  very  little  salt,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  rice  or  wheat  flour  wet  in  cold  milk. 
Stir  in  smoothly,  and  let  it  thicken  in  a  vessel  of  boiling 
water,  keeping  the  outer  saucepan  at  a  hard  boil  for  half 
an  hour.  Eat  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  with  cream  and 
sugar.  For  invalids,  or  children  who  are  suflering  with 
summer  disorders,  boil  at  least  an  hour,  stirring  very  often. 

Cheese. 

I  have  doubted  the  utility  of  inserting  a  receipt  for 
regular  cheese-making.  The  apparatus  necessary  for  the 
manufacture  is  seldom,  if  ever,  found  in  a  private  family, 
while  cheese  can  be  had  in  every  country  store  at  one- 
third  the  expense  to  an  amateur  of  making  it  But,  re- 
membering that  it  may  be  a  pleasant,  if  not  profitable 
experiment,  for  the  mistress  of  many  cows  to  make  at  her 
odd  moments,  I  have  secur^  what  purports  to  be  an 
exact  description  of  ''cheese-making  on  a  small  scale." 

To  each  gallon  of  milk  warm  from  the  cow,  add  a  piece  of 
rennet  six  inches  long  and  three  wide,  or  two  tablespoonfuls 
rennet  water — i,  c,  water  in  which  rennet  has  been  boiled. 
Cover,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  until  it  becomes  a  firm  curd ; 
this  should  be,  at  the  most,  not  more  than  three-quarters  of 


266  OOMMON  SEKBB. 

in  dry  heather  when  thej  are  firm  enough  to  remove  from 
the  shelves,  and  kept  there  a  month.  This  is  called 
'*  ripenmg. 

Cottage  Cheese. 

Heat  sour  milk  until  the  whey  rises  to  the  top.  Pour 
it  off,  put  the  curd  in  a  bag  and  let  it  drip  six  hours,  with- 
out squeezing  it.  Put  in  a  wooden  bowl,  chop  fine  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  salt  to  taste,  and  work  to  the  oonsistency  of 
soft  putty,  adding  a  little  cream  and  butter  as  you  pro- 
ceed. Mould  with  your  hands  into  round  "  pats  "  or  balls, 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place.     It  is  best  when  fresL 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

Grate  a  pound  of  dry  cheese ;  put  a  scant  tablespoonful 
of  butter  into  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  b  hot  stir  in  the 
cheese.  Add,  as  soon  as  the  mixture  is  warm,  a  small 
teacupful  of  boiling  water  in  which  has  been  stirred  a 
little  made  mustard  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Ply  the  spoon 
vigorously  for  one  minute  and  pour  the  cheese  upon  dry 
toast.  The  mixture  should  be  like  smooth,  thick  cream. 
If  poured  out  before  it  reaches  this  consistency,  it  is 
crude;  if  delayed,  it  lumps  and  toughens. 

Golden  Buck 

is  made  by  laying  a  poached  egg  upon  each  round  of 
toast  after  the  melted  cheese  goes  on. 


BREAD. 

If  eminence  of  importance  entitled  a  subject  to  pre- 
eminence of  position,  tliat  of  which  we  are  now  about  to 
epeak  should  have  stood  foremost  in  this  work.  It  is  not 
a  pleasant  thing  to  think  or  write  about,  but  it  is  a  stub- 
born fact,  that  upon  thousands  of  tables,  in  otherwise  com- 


m  phenomenon. 
I  be  a  murveJIoua 
ndifferent  fluur, 

le  notable  house- 
I  know  a  bouee- 
,  varied  several 
:ed  aod  colored 
7  griddle-cakea ; 
over-risen,  and 
htly  acid ;  yet 
not  used  at  all 
in,"  the  mistress 
:hlldren  and  all, 
at  the  bakers — 
less,  and  dry  as 
etraying,  in  the 
rior  of  the  loaf, 
ct  these  are  all 
iminaljoas  partly 
hey  are — chiefly 
cy  see  no  reason 
eeper  for  thirty 
just  so,"  retorted 
he  advantages  of 
t  in  flour,  yeast, 
.  good  stir ;  then 
don't  fancy  very 
ly  substance  in  it 
,  pretty  nice.  It's 

making  bread," 
of  such  &  thing 
9  eighteen  years. 


258  COMMON  8£N8E. 

So  I  thought  I'd  call  and  ask  you  for  it— just  as  a  ca- 
riosity, you  know.    I  want  to  see  what  it  is  like." 

I  wisely  kept  my  thoughts  to  myself,  and  dictated  the 
receipt,  which  she  jotted  down  in  a  memorandum-book 
laughing  all  the  while  at  the  **  excellent  joke." 

'*  You  really  use  this  ?"  she  demanded,  when  this  was 
done. 

''  I  do.    I  have  used  no  other  for  many  years." 

"  And  the  bread  I  ate  upon  your  table,  the  other  nighty 
was  made  according  to  this?" 

Again  an  affirmative  answer. 

"  I  guess  your  cook  could  tell  another  story,"  rejoined 
the  skeptic.  "  You  can*t  make  me  believe  that  bread  ia 
made  by  rule.  I  put  my  materials  together  anyhow,  and 
I  have  as  good  luck  as  most  of  my  neighbors." 

I  regarded  my  visitor  as  an  impertinent  simpleton ;  but 
I  have  been  amazed,  in  subsequent  years,  at  finding  that 
her  creed  is  that  of  hundreds  of  housewives  more  or  less 
sensible.  ''  Luck  "  rules  the  baking,  and  upon  the  shoul- 
ders of  this  Invisible  are  laid  the  deficiencies  of  the 
complacent  cook.  Cheap  flour  and  laziness  are  at  the 
bottom  of  more  mishaps  in  the  bread  line  than  any  other 
combination  of  circumstances.  From  the  inferior  grades 
of  flour,  it  is  possible  to  make  tolerable  biscuit,  crumpets, 
and  muffins,  plain  pastry,  and  very  good  griddle-cakes. 
You  cannot,  by  any  stretch  of  art,  produce  excellent 
bread  from  poor  flour.  It  is  no  economy  to  purchase  it 
for  this  purpose.  It  injudicious  to  lay  in  two  barrels  at  a 
time,  and  to  use  the  best  only  for  the  semi-  or  tri-weekly 
baking. 

Chiefest  then  among  the  conditions  to  good  bread,  I 
place  good  "family"  flour — dry,  elastic,  and  odorless. 
Whiteness  is  a  secondary  consideration,  although,  to 
American  eyes,  this  is  a  recommendation.     A  little  expe- 


269 

igaa  tbat  foretell 

If  ID  haodling 

B  that  of  ground 

btly  you  discover 

fiugers,  and  rolls 
U ;  if  it  is  in  the 
gly  in  your  trial- 

oae  that  you  will 
a  your  grocer, 
for  use  by  sifUng 
ray,  and  exposing 
etting  it  upon  the 
.nd  it  not  uufre- 
greatly  after  the 
'  weeks.     It  dries 

Neit  in  impor- 
<f  the  yeast.  This 
ffervescing  easily 
e  weak  ammonia, 
is  easiest,  perhaps 

or  bakery,  eier- 
ity.  Compressed 
itute  for  any  and 
ke  to  a  cupAiI  of 

who  should  have 
ito  a  sad  mistake 
uld  be  mixed  as 

rise  sooner  and 
,  and  keep .  fresh 
Itiff  bread  is  close 

after  a  day  or  tut 


160 


COBCMOir  8EirSE. 


Set  the  dough  to  rise  in  a  moderately  warm  place,  and 
keep  it  in  an  even  temperature.  There  is  force  in  the  old 
lament — "  My  bread  took  cold  last  night."  Cold  arrests 
the  process  of  fermentation.  There  is  a  chance,  should 
this  occur,  that  a  removal  to  a  more  genial  atmosphere 
and  careful  nursing  may  cure  the  congestion,  should  it  be 
only  partial.  Too  much  heat  carries  forward  the  work 
too  rapidly.  In  this  case,  you  will  find  your  dough  pufiy 
and  sour.  Correct  the  latter  evil  by  dissolving  a  little 
soda  or  saleratus  in  hot  water,  and  working  it  well  in. 

Knead  your  bread  faithfully  and  from  all  sides,  until  it 
rebounds  like  india-rubber  after  a  smart  blow  of  the  fist 
upon  the  centre  of  the  mass. 

The  oven  should  not  be  too  hot.  If  you  cannot  hold 
your  bare  arm  within  it  while  you  count  thirty,  it  is  too 
quick.  Keep  the  heat  steady  after  the  bread  goes  in. 
Too  much  fire  at  first,  and  rapid  cooling,  produce  the 
effect  upon  the  bread  which  is  technically  called  "  slack- 
baked."  Practice  and  intelligent  observation  will  make 
you  an  adept  in  the  management  of  your  ovens.  If  the 
bread  rises  rapidly  while  baking,  and  the  crust  begins  to 
form  before  the  lower  part  of  the  loaf  is  baked,  cover  the 
top  with  clean  paper  until  you  are  ready  to  brown  iL 
Many  bakers  cover  the  loaves  as  soon  as  they  go  into  the 
oven. 

Grate  away  the  burned  portions  of  the  crust,  should 
there  be  such.  This  is  better  than  chipping  with  a  knife. 
One  of  the  best  bread-makers  I  know  bakes  in  round 
pans,  each  loaf  by  itself,  and  grates  the  whole  outer  sur- 
face, top,  bottom,  and  sides,  quickly  and  lightly,  toning 
down  the  brown  to  a  uniform  and  pleasing  tint.  Tilt 
your  loaves  upon  the  edge,  the  lower  part  resting  upon 
the  table,  the  upper  supported  by  the  wall  or  other  up- 
right object,  and  throw  a  coarse  dry  cloth  over  them  until 
they  oool.    This  position  allows  the  air  to  get  at  all  ndes, 


261 

is  beet,  with 


e  musliD  bag. 


hop-bag  into 

Cover  and 

Take  these 

e  water  ^till 

and  work  in 
\\y  with  the 
'.:  When  all 
cool.  While 
jU  of  lively 

lo  "  work," 
»  bubble  up, 
ork  well  in  a 
len  jara  with 
,  and  remove 
1  fortnigh^^ 

,  a  small  ves- 
nd  re-cork  at 
Uit 


2d2  OOHHOV  8BN8E. 

4  quarts  cold  water. 
1  lb.  flour. 
i  lb.  white  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  salt. 

Tie  the  hops  in  a  coarse  muslin  bag,  and  boil  one  hour 
in  four  quarts  of  water.  Let  it  cool  to  lukewarmness  be- 
fore removing  the  bag.  Wet  with  the  tepid  liquor — a  lit- 
tle at  a  time — ^the  flour,  making  to  a  smooth  paste.  Put 
in  the  sugar  and  salt,  beat  up  the  batter  three  minutes  be- 
fore adding  the  rest  of  the  tea.  Set  it  awaj  for  two  days 
in  an  open  bowl  covered  with  a  thin  cloth,  in  a  closet 
which  is  moderately  and  evenly  warm. 

On  the  third  day  peel,  boil,  and  mash  the  potatoes,  and 
when  entirely  free  from  lumps  and  specks,  stir  in  grad- 
ually the  thickened  hop-liquor.  Let  it  stand  twelve  hours 
longer  in  the  bowl,  stirring  often,  and  keeping  it  in  the 
warm  kitchen.  Then  bottle  or  put  away  in  corked  jars, 
which  must  be  perfectly  sweet  and  freshly  scalded.  This 
will  keep  a  month  in  a  cool  cellar.  It  is  more  trouble- 
some to  make  it  than  other  kinds  of  yeast,  but  it  needs  no 
other ''rising"  to  excite  fermentation,  and  remains  good 
longer  than  that  made  in  the  usual  way. 


Yeast  (Potato,')  >J< 

6  potatoes. 

2  quarts  cold  water. 

4  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

2  *  "  white  sugar. 

Peel  and  boil  the  potatoes  until  they  break.  Leaving 
the  water  on  the  fire,  take  them  out  and  mash  fine  with 
the  flour  and  sugar,  wetting  gradually  with  the  hot  water 
until  it  is  all  used.     When  lukewarm,  add  a  gill  of  good 


1  and  warm  place  to 
see,  bottle  and  set  in 

and  ia  preferred  by 
lops.  It  ia  also  con- 
)  obtained. 


Lroe  muslin  bag. 


two  quarts  of  water 
■e  the  liopa,  and  while 
water  through  a  cul- 
ilding  liquor  enough 
tU  up  well ;  add  two 
in  a  warm  place  to 
idiau  meal,  roll  into 
and  cut  into  round 
'  in  a  very  moderate 

baking.  It  is  best  to 
down  for  the  night. 

When  entirely  dry 
a  cool,  dry  place. 
3ter  for  a  loaf  of  fair 

and  add  a  pinch  of 

onth  in 


264  oomxok  sense. 

Baking  Powders. 

1  ounce  super-carbonate  soda. 

7  drachms  tartaric  acid — (in  powder.) 

Roll  smoothly  and  mix  thoroughly.  Keep  in  a  tight 
glass  jar  or  bottle.  Use  one  teaspoonful  to  a  quart  of  flour. 

Or. 

12  teaspoonfuls  carb.  soda. 
24  "  cream  tartar. 

Put  as  above^  and  use  in  like  proportion. 

When  the  housewife  can  purchase  a  really  good  baking 
powder  that  will  spare  her  trouble  and  risk»  it  is  wise  to 
use  it  instead  of  the  home-made.  Afler  faithful  trial  of 
many — some  bad,  more  indifierent,  and  a  few  good — I 
give  the  preference  decidedly  to  Cleveland's  Baking  Pow- 
der. I  know  the  powder  to  be  free  from  ammonia,  alum, 
and  other  objectionable  ingredients  of  some  highly-lauded 
compounds ;  bread,  cakes,  etc.,  made  with  this  keep  fresh 
longer  than  when  mixed  with  any  other  I  have  tried  and 
are  less  friable ;  and  a  small  quantity  goes  further  than 
half  as  much  again  of  any  other  baking  powder  of  which 
I  have  knowledge.  The  virtues  of  what  I  hereby  recom- 
mend came  to  my  knowledge  by  accident,  and  after  I  had 
contented  myself  so  well  with  other  raising  powders  that 
I  had  come  to  consider  the  slightly  pungent  odor  arising 
from  a  torn  hot  biscuit  or  broken  cake  as  inseparable 
from  most,  if  not  all,  mixtures  warranted  to  bring  up 
batter  and  dough  afler  the  most  approved  manner.  A 
rounded  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Powder  does  the  work 
better  than  one  heaped  conically  by  the  lavish  hand  of 
a  cook  who  believes  that  "  if  a  little  is  good,  a  dale  is 
better." 


266 


COMMON  8JSNBE. 


your  hands.  If  too  soft,  add  more  flour.  If  you  can 
mould  it  at  all,  it  is  not  too  soft.  If  stiff,  rinse  out  the 
bowl  in  which  the  sponge  was  set  with  a  little  lukewarm 
water,  and  work  this  in.  When  you  have  it  in  manage- 
able shape,  begin  to  knead.  Work  the  mass  into  a  ball — 
your  hands  haying  been  well  floured  from  the  first ;  detach 
it  from  the  tray,  and  lift  it  in  your  left  hand,  while  you 
sprinkle  flour  with  the  right  thickly  over  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  the  tray.  Toss  back  the  ball  into  this,  and  knead 
hard — ^always  toward  the  centre  of  the  mass,  which  should 
be  repeatedly  turned  over  and  around,  that  every  portion 
may  be  manipulated.  Brisk  and  long  kneading  makes  the 
pores  fine  and  regular.  Gaping  holes  of  diverse  sizes  are 
an  unerring  tell-tale  of  a  careless  cook.  Spend  at  least  twenty 
minutes — half  an  hour  is  better — in  this  kind  of  useful 
gymnastics.  It  is  grand  exercise  for  arms  and  chest  This 
done,  work  the  dough  into  a  shapely  ball  in  the  centre  of 
the  tray,  sprinkle  flour  over  the  top ;  throw  a  cloth  over 
all  and  leave  it  on  the  kitchen-table  to  rise,  taking  care  it 
is  not  in  a  draught  of  cold  air.  In  summer,  it  will  rise  in 
four  or  five  hours — in  winter,  six  are  often  necessary.  It 
should  come  up  steadily  until  it  at  least  trebles  its  original 
bulk  and  the  floured  surface  cracks  all  over.  Knead  again 
for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Then,  divide  it  into  as  many 
parts  as  you  wish  loaves,  and  put  these  in  well-greased  pans 
for  the  final  rising.  In  a  large  household  baking,  it  is  cus- 
tomary to  mould  the  dough  into  oblong  rolls,  three  or  four, 
according  to  the  number  of  loaves  you  desire,  and  t&  lay 
these  close  together  in  one  large  pan.  The  second  knead- 
ing is  done  upon  a  floured  board,  and  should  be  thorough 
as  the  first,  the  dough  being  continually  shift;ed  and  turned. 
Set  the  pans  in  a  warm  place  for  an  hour  longer,  with  a 
cloth  thrown  over  them  to  keep  out  the  air  and  dust.  Then 
bake,  heeding  the  directions  set  down  in  the  article  upon 


387 

good  condition, 
J  of  bread.  £ul 
Note  carefully 
«i  for  your  first 
^  flour  yoa  have 
16  data  regulate 

of  two  quarts  in 
flour.  I  need  not 
hat  requires  such 
to  the  right  con- 
aomical.  Wheu 
with  the  fork, 
rge.  Practice  is 
Dwieldy  man  of 
lalf  the  quaulity 
id  iucreaae  these 
r  preserving  the 
ir  will  he  needed 
3f  moderate  size. 
.  the  directions  I 

to  be  a  guide, 
f  imprcBsed  with 

to  diminieh  the 
ilvea  the  comfort 
uid  year  to  year. 


4- 

ich  and  earnest 
housekeeper  to 
of  unbolted,  nsn- 
ile  of  diet  in  her 
1  majority  of  fiDr 


268  GOBCHOir  obnsb. 

best  chemiflte  and  physicians  when  I  saj  that  our  Ameri- 
can fondness  for  fine  white  bread  is  a  serious  injury  to  our 
health.  We  bolt  and  rebolt  our  flour  until  we  extract 
from  it  three-quarters  of  its  nutritive  qualities,  leaving  little 
strength  in  it  except  what  lies  in  gluten  or  starch,  and 
consign  that  which  makes  bone  and  tissue,  which  r^u- 
lates  the  digestive  organs,  and  leaves  the  blood  pure,  the 
brain  clear,  to  the  lower  animals.  Growing  children 
e^)eciall7  should  eat  brown  bread  daily.  It  supplies  the 
needed  phosphate  to  the  tender  teeth  and  bones.  If  pro- 
perly made,  it  soon  commends  itself  to  their  taste,  and 
white  becomes  insipid  in  comparison.  Dyspeptics  have  long 
been  familiar  with  its  dietetic  virtues,  and,  were  the  use 
of  it  more  general,  we  should  have  fewer  wretches  to 
mourn  over  the  destroyed  coats  of  their  stomachs.  It  is 
wholesome,  sweet,  honest,  and  should  be  popular. 

Prepare  a  sponge  as  for  white  bread,  using  potatoes  or 
white  flour.  My  rule  is  to  take  out  a  certain  quantity  of 
the  risen  sponge  on  liaking  day,  and  set  aside  for  brown 
bread.  Put  into  a  tray  two  parts  Graham  flour,  one-third 
white,  and  to  every  quart  of  this  allow  a  handful  of  Indian 
meal,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Wet  this  up  with  the 
sponge,  and  when  it  is  mixed,  add,  for  a  loaf  of  fair  size, 
half  a  teacupful  of  molasses.  The  dough  should  be  very 
soft.  If  there  is  not  enough  of  the  sponge  to  reduce  it  to 
the  desired  consistency,  add  a  little  blood-warm  water. 
Knead  it  diligently  and  long.  It  will  not  rise  so  rapidly 
as  the  white  flour,  having  more  "  body  "  to  carry.  Let  it 
take  its  time ;  make  into  round,  comfortable  loaves,  and 
set  down  again  for  the  second  rising,  when  you  have 
again  kneaded  it  Bake  steadily,  taking  care  it  does  not 
bum,  and  do  not  cut  while  hot  The  result  will  well  repay 
you  for  your  trouble.  It  will  take  a  longer  time  to  bake 
than  white  bread.    Brown  flour  should  not  be  sifted. 


>  h 
'he  I 


f  in 


270  COMMOK   BEirSE, 

Id  the  morning  mix  with  this: 
*  1  quart  warm  milk. 

1  tableepoonful  salt. 

1  cup  Indian  meal. 

And  enough  rye  flour  to  make  it 

Proceed  as  with  wheat  bread,  baki 

It  is  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  aci 

18  the  normal  state  of  rye  bread.    If; 

in  the  slightest  degree  sour,  correct  bj 

ful  of  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water. 

Milk  Bbead. 
1  quart  of  milk, 
i  teacupful  of  yeast,  or  one  cal 

dissolved  in  warm  water, 
i  lb.  butter,  one  tablespoonfiil  wl 

Btir  into  th<t  milk,  which  should  be 
a  pint  of  flour,  the  sugar,  lastly  the 
gether  well,  and  let  them  rise  five 
melt  the  butter,  and  add  with  a,  little  i 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  let  tl 
and  make  into  small  loaves.  Set  nea 
hour,  and  bake. 

In  warm  weather,  add  a  teaspoonf 
in  warm  water,  to  the  risen  sponge, 
with  milk  ia  apt  to  sour. 

BUTTERHILK    BrE^ 

1  pint  buttermilk  heated  U 

Stir  in,  while  it  is  hot, enough  flour 
thick  batter.    Add  half  a  gill  of  yeae 


r 


271 

or  six  hoars.  If  you  make  it  over  night  you  need  not  add 
the  yeast,  but  put  in,  instead,  a  tablespoonfui  of  white 
sugar.  In  the  morning,  stir  into  the  sponge  a  tablespoon- 
fui of  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water,  a  little  salt,  and  two 
tableq>oonfuls  melted  butter.  Work  in  just  flour  enough 
to  enable  you  to  handle  the  dough  comfortably;  knead 
well,  make  into  loaves,  and  let  it  rise  until  light 
This  makes  very  white  and  wholesome  bread. 

Bice  Bread. 

Make  a  sponge  of — 
1  quart  warm  water. 

i  teacupful  yeast,  or  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dis- 
solved in  warm  water. 
1  tablespoonfui  white  sugar  and  twice  as  much  lard. 
1  quart  wheat  flour. 

'  Beat  well  together,  and  when  it  has  risen,  which  will 
be  in  about  five  hours,  add  three  pints  of  warm  milk  and 
three  teacupfuls  rice-flour  wet  to  a  thin  paste  with  cold 
milk,  and  boiled  four  minutes  as  you  would  starch.  This 
should  be  a  little  more  than  blood-warm  when  it  is  stirred 
into  the  batter.  If  not  thick  enough  to  make  out  into 
dough,  add  a  little  wheat-flour.  Knead  thoroughly,  and 
treat  as  you  would  wheat  bread  in  the  matter  of  the  two 
risings  and  baking. 

This  is  nice  and  delicate  for  invalids,  and  keeps  well. 
If  you  cannot  procure  th«  rice-flour,  boil  one  cup  of 
whole  rice  to  a  thin  paste,  mashing  and  beating  it  smooth, 

French  RoLps.  (No.  1.)  ^ 

In  kneading  dough  for  the  day*s  baking,  after  adding 
and  working  in  the  risen  sponge,  set  aside  enough  for  a 
loaf  of  tea- rolls.    Work  into  this  a  heaping  tablespoonfui 


272  COHHON  ■BiraE. 

of  lord  or  butter,  and  let  it  sUnd  in  a  1 
(not  a  cold  or  draughty  one)  for  four 
again,  and  let  it  alone  for  three  hours  I 
into  rolls,  by  rolling  out,  very  lightly,  | 
into  round  cakes,  and  folding  these, 
centre,  like  turn-overs.  The  third  risi 
hour,  then  bake  steadily  half  an  hour 
is  quick. 

Having  seen  these  rolls,  smoking,  1 
upon  my  ova  table  at  least  twice  a 
years,  I  can  confidently  recommend  tl 
product.  You  can  make  out  part  of  y< 
in  the  same  manner. 

French  Rolls,    ilfo. 

1  quart  milk ;  new,  warm  milk  is  i 

i  teacupful  yeast,  or  one-half  cake 

1  quart  and  a  pint  of  flour,  the 

well  beaten. 

When  this  sponge  is  light,  work  in 

and  two  tableapoonfula  melted  butter, 

of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  soda  dissol 

one  tablespoonful  white  sugar  and  enoi 

make  a  soft  dough.     Let  this  stand  f 

roll  out  into  round  cakes  and  fold  as 

with  your  hands  into  balls.     Set  tbee 

in  the  baking-pan ;  let  them  rise  one 

fore  putting  them  into  the  oven,  cut 

ball  with  a  sharp  knife.    This  will  mal 

familiar  to  us  in  French  restaurants.    1 

BiSElI  BiBCCIT.  >{< 
1  quart  milk. 
i  cup  lard  or  butter — half-and-hal 


>r  i  cake  of  compreBwd  yeut. 

white  sugar. 

t. 

soft  dougb. 

rining  the  milk  slightly  aiid  melting 

n  the  morniDg,  roll  out  into  a  sheet 

inch  in  thicknees ;  cut  into  round 

I7  together  in  a  pan,  let  them  rise 

ad  bake  twenty  minutes. 

acuita  are  even  better  if  the  above 

li  half  as  much  floor,  in  the  form  of 

i  rest  of  the  flour  be  worked  in  five 

B  rise  five  hours  more,  and  proceed 

Ltjmm.  {No.  1 )    4« 
flour. 

ted  butter. 

m  milk. 

m  water. 

lonfuls  yeast,  orone-half  oake  com- 

yeast. 

lAil  wit. 

soda,  dissolved  In  hot  wat«r. 

stiff  froth,  add  the  milk,  water,  but- 
ar  in  the  flour  to  a  smooth  batter, 
well.  Set  to  rise  in  a  buttered  pud- 
;  must  be  baked  and  sent  to  table. 
■a  it  out,  set  to  rise  in  a  uw/tbuttered 
light  uoder  six  hours.  Bake  stead- 
in  hour,  or  uutil  a  straw  thrust  into 
!at  while  hot. 


274  oomcoH  sense. 

This  is  the  genuine  old-fiiahioned  Sally  Lunn,  and  will 
hardly  give  place  even  yet  to  the  newer  and  faster  com- 
pounds known  under  the  same  name. 

Sally  Lunn.    (iVb.  2.)  >i< 
1  scant  quart  flour. 
4egg8. 

1  teacupful  milk. 

1        "        lard  and  butter  mixed. 
1  rounded  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Baking 

Powder. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

« 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  yolks  and  whites  separately, 
melt  the  shortening,  sift  the  baking  powder  into  the  flour ; 
add  the  whites  the  last  thing. 

Potato  Biscuit. 

8  potatoes  of  medium  size,  mashed  very  fine. 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter,  melted. 

2  cups  milk,  blood-warm. 

i  cup  yeast,  or  one- half  cake  of  compressed  yeast 

Flour  to  make  a  thin  batter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

Stir  all  the  above  ingredients  together  except  the  but- 
ter, and  let  the  sponge  rise  until  light — four  or  five  hours 
will  do ;  then  add  the  melted  butter  with  a  little  salt  and 
flour,  enough  to  make  soft  dough.  Set  aside  this  for  four 
hours  longer,  roll  out  in  a  sheet  three-quarters  of  an  inch 
thick,  cut  into  cakes ;  let  these  rise  one  hour,  and  bake. 

Mrs.  E 's  Biscuit  (Sbcfa.)  >{< 

1  quart  flour. 

2  heaping  tablespoonfulB  of  lard. 


r 


BREAD.  270 

2  cups  sweet — if  you  can  get  it — new  milk. 

1  rounded    teaspoonful    of    Cleveland's    Bakiug 

Powder. 
1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Rub  the  baking  powder  into  the  flour,  and  sift  all 
together  before  thej  are  wet;  then  put  in  the  salt;  next 
the  lard,  rubbed  into  the  prepared  flour  quickly  and 
lightly  ;  lastly,  pour  in  the  milk.  Work  out  the  dough 
rapidly,  kneading  with  as  few  strokes  as  possible,  since 
handling  injures  the  biscuit.  If  properly  prepared  the 
dough  will  have  a  rough  sur&ce  and  the  biscuit  be  flaky. 
The  dough  should  also  be  very  soft.  If  the  flour  stiflen  it 
too  much,  add  more  milk.  Roll  out  lightly,  cut  into 
cakes  at  least  half  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  The  biscuit  made  by  the  friend  from  whom  I  had 
this  receipt  were  marvels  of  lightness  and  sweetness.  I 
have  often  thought  of  them  since  with  regretful  longing, 
when  set  down  to  so-called  "  soda-biscuit,"  marbled  with 
greenish-yellow  streaks,  and  emitting,  when  split,  an 
odor  which  was  in  itself  an  eloquent  dissuasive  to  an 
educated  appetite.  Few  cooks  make  really  good,  quick 
biscuit — why,  I  am  unable  to  say,  unless  upon  the  prin- 
ciple of  "  brains  will  tell."  I  have  had  more  than  one 
in  my  kitchen,  who,  admirable  in  almost  every  other 
respect,  were  absolutely  unfit  to  be  intrusted  with  this 
simple  yet  delicate  manufacture.  The  common  fault  is 
to  have  too  ''  heavy  a  hand  "  with  baking  powder,  and  to 
"guess  at"  the  quantities,  instead  of  measuring  them. 
Eat  while  warm. 

Graham  Biscuit.  >J< 

3  cups  Graham  flour. 
1  cup  white. 
3  cups  milk. 


276  OOMMOV  SKSBR. 

2  tableepoonfuls  lard. 
1  heaping  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 
1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

1  rounded  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Pow- 
der. 

Mix  and  bake  as  you  do  the  white  soda-biscuit  (Mrs* 
E ^'s).     They  are  good  cold  as  well  as  hot. 

Minute  Biscuit. 

1  pint  sour,  or  buttermilk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter. 

Flour  to  make  soft  dough — just  stiff  enough  to  handle. 
MiZy  roll,  and  cut  out  rapidly,  with  as  little  handling  as 
may  be,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Graham  Wheatletb. 

1  pint  Graham  flour. 

Nearly  a  quart  of  boiling  water  or  milk. 

1  teaspoon^l  salt 

Scald  the  flour,  when  you  have  salted  it,  into  as  soft 
dough  as  you  can  handle.  Boll  it  nearly  an  inch  thick, 
cut  in  round  cakes,  lay  upon  a  hot  buttered  tin  or  pan, 
and  bake  them  in  the  hottest  oven  you  can  get  ready. 
Everything  depends  upon  heat  in  the  manufacture  of  the^e. 
Some  cooks  spread  them  on  a  hot  tin,  and  set  this  upon  a 
red-hot  stove.  Properly  scalded  and  cooked,  they  are 
light  as  puffs,  and  very  good;  otherwise  they  are  flat  and 
tough.    Split  and  butter  while  hot 

Sweet  Busk.  >{< 

1  pint  warm  milk. 
}  cup  of  butter. 


BREAD. 


277 


1  cup  of  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  yeast,  or  one-third  of  a  yeast  cake. 

Make  a  sponge  with  the  milk,  yeast,  and  enough  flour 
ihr  a  thin  batter,  and  let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing add  the  butter,  eggs,  and  sugar,  previously  beaten  up 
well  together,  the  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Mould  with  the  hands  into  balls  of  uniform  size, 
set  close  together  in  a  pan,  and  let  them  rise  until  very 
light.  After  baking,  wash  the  tops  with  a  clean  soft  cloth 
dipped  in  molasses  and  water. 


Dried  Rusk.  S 

1  pint  of  warm  milk. 

2  eggs. 

i  teacup  of  butter. 

Half  a  cupt  of  yeast,  or  one-half  cake  of  compressed 

yeast 
1  teaspoonful  salt 

Set  a  sponge  with  these  ingredients,  leaving  out  the 
eggs,  and  stirring  in  flour  until  you  have  a  thick  batter. 
Early  next  morning  add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  and  flour 
enough  to  enable  you  to  roll  out  the  dough.  Let  this  rise 
in  the  bread -bowl  two  hours.  Boll  into  a  sheet  nearly  an 
inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes,  and  arrange  in  your 
baking-pan  two  deep,  laying  one  upon  the  other  carefully. 
Let  these  stand  for  another  half-hour,  and  bake. 

These  are  now  very  nice  for  eating,  and  you  may,  if 
you  like,  reserve  a  plateful  for  tea ;  but  the  rule  for  the 
many,  handed  down  through,  I  am  afraid  to  say  how 
many  generations,  in  the  family  where  I  first  ate  this 
novel  and  delightful  biscuit,  is  to  divide  the  twins,  thus 


27&  OOMMON  SEKBE. 

leaving  one  side  af  each  cake  soft,  and  piling  them  loosely 
in  the  pan,  set  them  in  the  oven  when  the  fire  is  declining 
for  the  night,  and  leave  them  in  until  morning.  Then, 
still  obeying  the  traditions  of  revered  elders,  put  them 
in  a  clean  muslin  bag,  and  hang  them  up  in  the  kitchen. 
They  will  be  fit  to  eat  upon  the  third  day.  Put  as  many 
as  you  need  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  over  them  iced 
milk,  or  water,  if  you  cannot  easily  procure  the  former. 
Let  them  soak  until  soft,  take  them  out,  drain  them  for  a 
minute  in  a  shallow  plate,  and  eat  with  butter.  Invalids 
and  children  crave  them  eagerly.  Indeed,  I  have  seen 
few  refuse  them  who  had  ever  tasted  them  before.  There 
is  a  pastoral  flavor  about  the  pleasant  dish,  eaten  with 
the  accompaniment  of  fresh  berries,  on  a  summer  evening, 
that  appeals  to  the  better  impulses  of  one's  appetite. 

Try  my  soaked  rusk — ^not  forgetting  to  ice  the  milk— 
and  you  will  find  out  for  yourself  what  I  mean,  but 
cannot  quite  express. 

Dried  rusk  will  keep  for  weeks,  and  grow  better  every 
day.  The  only  risk  is  in  their  being  eaten  up  before  they  at- 
tain maturity. 

Butter  Crackeks. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

}  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

2  cups  sweet  milk. 

_  Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  or,  what  is  better,  cut  it 
up  with  a  knife  or  chopper,  as  you  do  in  pastry ;  add  the 
salt,  milk,  and  soda,  mixing  well.  Work  into  a  ball,  lay 
upon  a  floured  board,  and  beat  with  a  rolling-pin  half  an 
hour,  turning  and  shifting  the  mass  often.  Roll  into  an 
even  sheet,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  or  less,  prick  deeply 


J 


r 


BREAD.  279 

with  a  fork,  aod  bake  hard  in  a  moderate  oven.     Hang 
them  up  in  a  muslin  bag  in  the  kitchen  for  two  days  to  dry. 

Wafebs.  ^ 

1  pound  of  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
A  little  salt. 

Mix  with  sweet  milk  into  a  stiff  dough,  roll  out  very 
thin,  cut  into  round  cakes,  and  again  roll  these  as  thin 
as  they  can  be  handled.  Lift  them  carefully,  lay  in  a 
pan,  and  bake  very  quickly. 

These  are  extremely  nice,  especially  for  invalids. 
They  should  be  hardly  thicker  than  writing-paper.  Flour 
the  baking-pan  instead  of  greasing. 

Cbumpets  {Sweet) 
1  pint  raised  dough« 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
i  cup  white  sugar. 

When  your  bread  has  passed  its  second  rising,  work  in- 
to the  above-named  quantity  the  melted  butter,  then  the 
^gs  and  sugar,  beaten  together  until  very  light  Bake 
in  muffin-rings  about  twenty  minutes. 

Cbumpets  {Plain,)  >{< 
3  cups  warm  mils. 

i  cap  yeast,  or  one-half  of  a  yeast  cak& 
2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
1  saltspoonful  salt,  and  the  same  of  soda,  dissolved  in 

hot  water. 
Flour  to  make  good  batter. 

Set  these  ingredients — ^leaving  out  the  butter  and  soda 


280 


COMMON  8ENBE. 


a  sponge.  When  verj  light,  beat  in  the  melted  but- 
ter, with  a  very  little  flour,  to  prevent  the  butter  from 
thinning  the  batter  too  much ;  stir  in  the  soda  hard,  fill 
pattypans  or  muffin-rings  with  the  mixture,  and  let  them 
stand  fifteen  minutes  before  baking. 
This  is  an  excellent,  easy,  and  economical  receipt 

Graham  Muffins.  ^ 

3  cups  Graham  flour. 
1     "     white  flour. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

i  cup  yeast. 

1  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Set  to  rise  over  night,  and  bake  in  muffin-rings  twenty 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven.    Eat  hot. 

Queen  Muffins.  >{( 

1  quart  of  milk. 
f  cup  of  yeast. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

1  "  of  lard  or  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  good  batter. 

4  ^gs. . 

Set  the  batter — leaving  out  the  eggs — to  rise  over  night. 
In  the  morning  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  stir  into  the 
batter,  and  bake  in  muffin-rings  twenty  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Cbeam  Muffins.  >{< 

1  quart  sweet  milk  (half-cream,  if  you  can  get  it). 
1     "     flour — heaping. 


and  the  same  of  lard — melted 

piks  and  wbit«B  separately ; 
salt,  then  the  ehorteniDg,  lastly 
y.  Bake  immediately  in  well- 
iritb  the  batter.  Your  oven 
Gns  sent  to  table  so  aoon  as 

LE    MUFFINB. 

"  loppered  "  sweet  milk- 
solved  in  hot  water. 


tir  them  into  the  milk,  beating 
:  flour  and  salt,  and  at  the  last 
a  quick  oven. 

"  Mdffibs-  »!» 
ilk. 


r  stifi*  batter. 
)nful  salt. 


5  MOFFINB.  •J* 
yolks  beaten  separately  and 


282  OOMMOV  8ENBB. 

3  cups  of  milk.    If  sour,  no  disadvantage,  if  soda  be 

added. 
A  little  salt. 

The  excellence  of  these  depends  upon  thorough  beat- 
ing and  quick  baking. 

Bice  Muffibb.  >{« 
1  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 

1  pint  of  flour. 

2  eggs. 

1  quart  of  milk,  or  enough  to  make  thin  batter. 
1  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Beat  hard  and  bake  quickly. 

Hominy  Muffins.  >J< 

2  cups  fine  hominy — ^boiled  and  cold. 
8  eggs. 

3  cups  sour  milk.    (If  sweet,  add  halfteaspoonful 
of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder.) 

i  cup  melted  butter. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

2  tablespoonAils  white  sugar. 

1  large  cup  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Beat  the  hominy  smooth ;  stir  in  the  milk,  then  the 
butter,  salt,  and  sugar ;  next  the  eggs,  which  should  first 
be  well  beaten ;  then  the  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water ; 
lastly  the  flour. 

There  are  no  more  delicious  or  wholesome  muflbis  than 
these,  if  rightly  mixed  and  quickly  baked. 

Belle's  Mdffinb. 
8  pints  of  flour. 
1  quart  of  milk. 


r 


BBEAB.  283 

2  eggs. 

1  heaping  teaapoonful  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder. 

1  UbleBpoonfuI  salt. 

Sift  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour.  Beat  the  eggs 
very  light.     Bake  in  rings  in  a  quick  oven. 

Like  all  small  hot  "  breads/'  these  should  be  eaten  as 
soon  as  baked. 

CoBN  Bread. 

There  is  a  marked  difference  between  the  corn-meal 
ground  at  the  South,  and  that  which  is  sent  out  from 
Northern  mills.  If  any  one  doubts  this,  it  is  not  she  who 
has  perseveringly  tried  both  kinds,  and  demonstrated  to 
her  own  conviction  that  the  same  treatment  will  not  do 
for  them.  An  intelligent  lady  once  told  me  that  the 
shape  of  the  particles  composing  the  meal  was  different — 
the  one  being  round  and  smooth,  the  other  angular.  I 
am  inclined  to  believe  this.  The  Southern  meal  is  cer- 
tainly coarser,  and  the  bread  made  from  it  less  compact. 
Moreover,  there  Ss  a  partiality  at  the  North  for  yellow 
meal,  which  the  Southerners  regard  as  only  fit  for  chicken 
and  cattle-feed.  The  yellow  may  be  the  sweeter,  but  I 
acknowledge  that  I  have  never  succeeded  in  making 
really  nice  bread  from  it. 

Indian  meal  should  be  purchased  in  small  quantities, 
except  for  a  very  large  family.  It  is  apt  to  heat,  mould, 
and  grow  musty,  if  kept  long  in  bulk  or  in  a  warm  place. 
If  not  sweet  and  dry,  it  is  useless  to  expect  good  bread  or 
cakes.  As  an  article  of  diet,  especially  in  the  early  warm 
days  of  spring,  it  is  healthful  and  agreeable,  often  acting 
as  a  gentle  corrective  to  bile  and  other  disorders.  In 
winter,  also,  it  is  always  acceptable  upon  the  breakfast 
or  supper  table,  being  warming  and  nutritious..  In 
nunmer  the  free  use  of  it  is  less  judicious,  on  account 


284  OOMMOH  8ESBB. 

of  its  laxatiye  properties.  As  a  kindly  yariation  in  the 
routine  of  fine  white  bread  and  baker*8  rolls,  it  is  worth  the 
attention  of  every  housewife.  '^  John  and  the  children" 
will  like  it,  if  it  approximates  the  fair  standard  of 
excellence ;  and  I  take  it,  my  good  friend — you  who  have 
patiently  kept  company  with  me  from  our  prefatory  talk 
until  now — that  you  love  them  well  enough  to  care  for 
their  comfort  and  likings. 

**  My  husband  is  wild  about  com  bread,"  a  wife  re- 
marked to  me  not  a  hundred  years  ago,  "  but  I  won't 
make  it  for  him ;  it  is  such  a  bother  I  And  if  I  onoe 
indulge  him,  he  will  give  me  no  peace." 

Beloved  sister,  I  am  persuaded  better  things  of  you. 
Good  husbands  cannot  be  spoiled  by  petting.  Bad  ones 
cannot  be  made  worse — ^they  may  be  made  better.  It 
seems  a  little  thing,  so  trifling  in  its  consequences,  you 
need  not  tire  further  your  aching  back  and  feet  to  accom- 
plish it — the  preparation  of  John's  favorite  dish  when  he 
does  not  expect  the  treat — ^to  surprise  him  when  he  comes 
in  cold  and  hungry,  by  setting  before  hilh  a  dish  of  hot 
milk-toiist,  or  a  loaf  of  corn  bread,  brown  and  crisp  with- 
out, yellow  and  spongy  within,  instead  of  the  stereotyped 
pile  of  cold  slices,  brown  or  white.  If  he  were  consulted, 
he  would  say,  like  the  generous  soul  he  is — ''Don't  take 
one  needless  step  for  me,  dear."  And  he  would  mean  it. 
But  for  all  that,  he  will  enjoy  your  little  surprise — ay  I 
and  love  you  the  better  for  it  It  is  the  "  little  by  little  " 
that  makes  up  the  weal  and  woe  of  life. 

May  I  make  this  digression  longer  yet,  by  telling  you 
what  I  overheard  a  husband  say  to  a  wife  the  other  day 
when  he  thought  no  one  else  was  near  enough  to  hear 
him.  He  is  no  gourmand,  but  he  is  very  fond  of  a 
certain  kind  of  cruller  which  nobody  else  can  make,  he 
thinks,  so  well  as  his  litde  wife.    It  so  chanced  that  in 


BREAD.  285 

frying  some  of  them,  she  scalded  her  hand  badly.  After 
it  was  bandaged,  she  brought  up  a  plate  of  the  cakes  for 
luncheon.  He  looked  at  .them,  then  at  her,  with  a  loving, 
mournful  smile. 

"I  can  understand  now,"  said  he,  "how  David  felt 
when  his  men-of-war  brought  him  the  water  from  the  well 
of  Bethlehem." 

Then  he  stooped  and  kissed  the  injured  fingers.  Yet 
he  has  been  married  twenty  years.  I  was  not  ashamed 
that  my  eyes  were  moist.  I  honored  him  the  more  that 
his  were  dim. 

This  is  my  lesson  by  the  wayside  apropos  to  corn-bread. 

And  now  again  to  business. 

Beceipts  for  Bread  Tnade  of  Northern  Indian  MeaL 

Nonpareil  Corn  Bread.  >J* 

2  heaping  cups  of  Indian  meaL 
1  cup  of  flour. 

3  eggs. 

2i  cups  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  lard. 

2  ^  white  sugar. 

1  rounded  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Baking 

Powder. 
1  teaspoonful  salt 

Beat  the  eggs  very  thoroaghly — wiiites  and  yolks 
separately — melt  the  lard,  sifl  the  baking  powder  into 
the  meal  and  flour  while  yet  dry,  and  stir  this  in  at  the 
last.  Then,  to  borrow  the  direction  scribbled  by  a  rattle- 
tongued  girl  upon  the  above  receipt,  when  she  sent  it  to 
me — **heai  like  madT*  Bake  quickly  and  steadily  in  a 
buttered  mould.    Half  an  hour  will  usually  suffice.     In 


286  COMMON  SENSE. 

cutting  com  bread  hold  the  knife  perpendieularhf  and  eat 
toward  you. 

CoBN  Meal  Muffinb. 

Mix  aooording  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  onlj  a  little 
thinner,  and  bake  in  rings  or  small  pattypans.  All  kinds 
of  com  bread  should  be  baked  quickly  and  eaten  while  hot. 

Risen  Corn  Breaix 

1  pint  Indian  meal. 

2  cups  risen  sponge,  taken  from  your  r^ular  baking 

of  wheat  bread. 
}  cup  molasses,  or,  what  is  better,  4  tablespoonfiils 

white  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
1  tablespoonful  lard,  melted. 
1  cup  flour,  or  enough  for  stiff  batter. 

Mix  well,  put  to  rise  in  a  buttered  mould  until  very 
light  Bake  one  hour.  It  is  well  to  scald  the  meal  and 
stir  in  while  blood-warm. 

Steamed  Corn  Bread.  >{< 

2  cups  Indian  meal. 

1  cup  flour 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

2}  cups  "  loppered  "  milk,  or  buttermilk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  '*  salt. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  lard,  melted. 

Beat  very  hard  and  long,  put  in  buttered  mould,  tie  a 
coarse  cloth  tightly  over  it,  and  if  you  haye  no  steamer,  fit 
the  mould  in  the  top  of  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  taking  care 
it  does  not  touch  the  surface  of  the  liquid.  Lay  a  dose 
cover  over  the  cloth  tied  about  the  mould,  to  keep  in  all 


BREAD.  287 

the  heat.  Steam  one  hoar  and  a  half,  and  set  in  ao  oven 
ten  minutes.  Turn  out  upon  a  hot  plate,  and  eat  while 
warm. 

This  will  do  for  a  plain  dessert,  eaten  with  pudding-eauoe. 

Corn-Meal  Crumpets. 

1  quart  Indian  meal. 

1  "      boiled  mUk. 

4  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 

2  "  white  sugar. 

2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  lard,  or  butter,  or 

half-and-half. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 

Scald  the  meal  with  the  boiling  milk,  and  let  it  stand 
until  lukewarm.  Then  stir  in  the  sugar,  yeast,  and  salt, 
and  leave  it  to  rise  five  hours.  Add  the  melted  shortening, 
beat  well,  put  in  greased  muffin-rings,  set  these  near  the 
fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  bake.  Half  an  hour  in  a 
quick  oven  ought  to  cook  them. 

Never  cut  open  a  muffin  or  crumpet  of  any  kind,  least  of 
all  one  made  of  Indian  meal.  Pass  the  knife  lightly  around 
it  to  pierce  the  crust,  then  break  open  with  the  fingers. 

SecdpisJoT  Com  Bread  made  of  Southern  Indian  MeaL 

Johnny  Cake. 

1  teacupful  sweet  milk. 

1         "         buttermilk. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  "        soda. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

Enough  meal  to  enable  you  to  roll  it  into  a  sheet  half 
an  inch  thick.  Spread  upon  a  buttered  tin,  or  in  a  shal- 
low pan,  and  bake  forty  minutes.    As  soon  as  it  begins  to 


288  COMMON  SENSE. 

brown,  baste  it  with  a  rag  tied  to  a  stick  and  dipped  in 
melted  butter.  Repeat  this  five  or  six  times  until  it  is 
brown  and  crisp.  Break — ^not  cut  it  up — and  eat  for 
luncheon  or  tea,  accompanied  by  sweet  or  buttermilk. 

Aunt  Jenny's  Johnny  Cake. 
Mix  as  above;  knead  well,  and  bake  upon  a  perfectly 
clean  and  sweet  board,  before  a  hot  fire,  with  something 
at  the  back  to  keep  it  up.  Incline  at  such  an  angle  as 
will  prevent  the  cake  from  slipping  ofi*,  until  it  is  har- 
dened slightly  by  baking,  then  place  upright  Baste 
frequently  with  butter  until  nicely  crisped. 

Batter  Bbead,  or  "Egg  Bread."  >J< 
Half  a  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 
2  eggs. 

2  cups  Indian  meal. 
1  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  salt 
1  pint  milk. 

Beat  the  eggs  light,  and  the  rice  to  a  smooth  bat- 
ter in  the  milk.  Melt  the  shortening.  Stir  all  together 
very  hard,  and  bake  in  shallow  tins  very  quickly. 

Bisen  Corn  Bread. 
Mix  a  tolerably  stifi*  dough  of  corn-meal  and  boiling 
water,  a  little  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  butter.    Let  it 
stand  four  or  five  hours  until  light ;  make  into  small 
loaves  and  bake  rather  quickly. 

Corn-meal  Ponel 
1  quart  Indian  meal. 
1  teaspoonful  salt 
A  little  lard,  melted. 
Cold  water  to  make  a  soffc  dough* 


LKE8,  WAFFLES,  ETC.  289 

into  tbiQ  oblong  cakes,  lay  in  a 
>ke  very  quickly. 
)  mould  into  oval  rooundB,  biglier 
e  ends,  sbaping  these  rapidly  and 
by  toeeiEg  the  dough  over  and 
great  dexterity  by  the  Virginia 
»1  pone  forms  a  part  of  every 
>t  cut,  and  eaten  very  hot 

LSH  Cake 

.  clean  spot  is  swept  upon   the 

tut  down  and  covered  with  hot 

washed  and  wiped  dry  before  it 
r  is  to  lay  a  cabbage-leaf  above 
le  bread  is  thus  steamed  before  It 

ready  for  eating  by  stripping  off 

UED  Pone. 

le  dough  with  the  bands,  cut  into 
out  some  fat  pork  in  a  frying- 
in  the  gravy  thus  obtiuned  to  a 


LKBS,  Waffles,  gto. 
1  your  griddle  or  waffle-iron  fat 
rd  with  hot  soap  and  water ;  wipe 
alt.  Heat  it  and  grease  with  a 
I  fork.  It  is  a  mistake,  besides 
eful,  to  put  on  more  grease  than 
)  prevent  the  cake  from  sticking. 
•h  square  should  last  for  several 
monful  of  batter  for  each  cake, 
ddle  test  it  with  a  single  cake,  to 
with  it  as  well  as  the  batter. 


290  OOMMON  SEMBS. 

The  same  rules  apply  to  waffles.  Always  lay  hot  cakes 
and  waffles  upon  a  hot  plate  as  soon  as  baked. 

Buckwheat  Cakes.  >I< 

1  quart  buckwheat  flour. 

4  tablespoonfuls  yeast,  or  one-half  cake  of  yeast 

1  teaspoonfiil  salt. 

1  handful  Indian  meal. 

2  tablespoonfuls  molasses — not  syrup. 

Warm  water  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Beat  very 
well  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  If  the  batter  is  in 
the  least  sour  in  the  morning,  stir  in  a  very  little  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Mix  in  an  earthen  crock,  and  leave  some  in  the  bot- 
tom each  morning — a  cupfiil  or  so — to  serve  as  spongi 
for  the  next  night.  In  cold  weather  this  plan  can  bt 
successfully  pursued  for  a  week  or  ten  days.  Of  course, 
you  add  the  usual  quantity  of  flour,  Ac.,  every  night,  and 
beat  up  well. 

Do  not  make  your  cakes  too  small.  Buckwheats 
should  be  of  generous  size.  Some  put  two-thirds  buck* 
wheat,  one-third  oat-meal,  omitting  the  Indian. 

Flannel  Cakes.  »{< 

1  quart  milk. 

3  tablespoonfuls  yeast,  or  one-half  cake  of 
compressed  yeast 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted. 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  good  batter.  Set  the  rest  of  the  in* 
gredients  as  a  sponge  over  night,  and  in  the  morfling  add 
the  melted  butter  and  eggs. 


r 


obiddlb-cakes,  wafflbb,  etc.  291 

Cork-meal  Flapjacks. 

1  quart  Bour  buttermilk. 

2  eggs,  beaten  light. 
1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  **        soda  dinolyed  in  hot  water 

2  tablespoonfuls  molasses. 

1  "  lard,  melted. 

}  cup  flour. 

Meal  to  make  a  batter  a  trifle  thicker  than  flannel  cakes. 

Graham  Cakes.    >i* 

2  cups  brown  flour. 
1  cup  white       " 

3  cups  sour  or  buttermilk. 

1  fiill  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  teaspoonfiil  salt. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  lard. 

3  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 

Auivtie's  Cakes  {without  eggs),  >{< 

1  quart  sour  or  buttermilk. 

2  teaspoonfiils  soda  (small  ones). 
1         •*  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  tolerably  thick  batter. 
Btir  until  smooth — no  longer — and  bake  immediately. 

Egoless  Flannel  Cakes. 

1  quart  milk. 

i  teacupful  yeast,  or  one-half  cake  of  compressed 
yeast 

2  cups  white  flour. 


292 


COMMON  SENSE. 


1  cup  Indian  meal. 

1  tablespoonful  lard,  melted. 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

Set  over  night,  adding  the  lard  in  the  momingp 

Grandpa's  Pavobitbb.  ^ 

1  quart  milk. 

2  cups  stale  bread-crumbs. 
1  good  handful  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Work  the  bread  and  milk  smooth,  stir  in  the  butter 
fLud  eggs,  then  the  salt,  lastly  just  enough  flour  to  bind 
th«i  mixture.  If  too  thick,  add  milk.  These  are  whole- 
some and  good.    Take  care  they  do  not  stick  to  the  griddle. 

Risen  Batter-Cakes. 

3  cups  white  Indian  meal. 
1  cup  white  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted  and  added  in  the 

morning. 
1  quart  milk. 

4  tableepoonfuls  of  yeast,  or  one-half  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and 

added  in  the  morning. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

over  night. 

Rice  Cakes.    >{< 

One  cup  cold  boiled  rioe. 
One  pint  flour. 
One  teaspoonful  salt. 


GBIDDL&OAKES,  WAFFLES,  ETC. 

Two  eggs,  beaten  light 

Milk  to  make  a  tolerably  thick  batter. 


293 


Beat  all  together  well. 


Hominy  Cakes.    >{< 

2  cups  fine  hominy,  boiled  and  cold. 
1  cup  white  flour. 

1  quart  milk. 

3  eggs,  very  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Beat  smooth  the  hominy,  work  in  the  milk  and  salt, 
then  the  flour,  lastly  the  eggs.  Bake  at  once,  and  keep 
the  mixture  well  stirred. 

Cream  Cakes.  Hh 

1  pint  cream  and  same  quantity  of  milk,  slightly  sour. 

4  ^gs,  whites  and  yolks  whipped  separately. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1  "        salt 

Flour  to  make  a  good  batter,  well  beaten  in. 

Velvet  Cakes. 

1  quart  new  unskimmed  milk — half  cream  and  half 

milk  is  preferable. 
3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  and  very 

stiff. 
1  teaspoonful  salt 
Rice  flour. 

Mix  the  beaten  yolks  with  the  milk,  add  the  salt,  then 
rice  flour  to  make  a  batter  as  thick  as  that  for  flannel 
cakes;  lastly,  whip  in  the  stiffened  whites  very  lightly,  and 
bake  immediately. 


2m  common  ben8x. 

Risen  Waffles. 
1  quart  milk. 

1  heaping  quart  flour. 
5  tablespoonfuls  yeast 

2  eggs. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

get  the  mixture — ^minus  the  eggs  and  butter — over 
night  as  a  sponge;  add  these  in  the  morning,  and  bake  in 
waffle-irons. 

"Mother's"  Waffles.   >J< 

2  cups  milk. 

2  eggs. 

3  cups  flour. 

1  rounded  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Bak- 
ing Powder. 

1  saltspoonful  salt 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

Sift  the  powder  into  the  flour  with  the  salt,  or  you  may 
dissolve  in  a  little  hot  water.  Beat  the  eggs  very  well. 
Add  the  flour  the  last  thing.  If  the  batter  is  too  stiff,  put 
in  more  milk. 

Rice  Waffles  (No.  1.)  >J< 

1  cup  boiled  rice. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

Lard  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
1    rounded    teaspoonful  of   Cleveland's 

Baking  Powder. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Flour  for  a  thin  batter. 


r 


shortcake,  etc.  295 

Rice  Wafflbb  (-Wo.  2.) 

1  quart  milk. 

1  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 

3  cups  rice  flour,  or  enough  for  thin  batter. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

3egg9. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Quick  Waffles. 
1  pint  milk. 

3  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
1    rouuded  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's   Baking 
Powder. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

A  heaping  pint  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  soft  batter. 

Rice  and  Cobn-Meal  Waffles. 

1  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 

i  cup  white  flour,  and  same  of  corn-meal. 

2  eggs  well  whipped,  and  milk  to  make  soft  batter. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

i  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  "  of  salt. 

Beat  the  mixture  smooth  before  baking. 

Be  especially  careful  in  greasing  your  irons  for  these 
waffles,  as  for  all  which  contain  rice. 

Shortcake,  <fec. 
Sunnybank  Shortcake  (Jot  fruit,)  ^ 

2  scant  quarts  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lard. 

3  "  butter. 


296  CX>MMON  8SNSB. 

2}  cops  Bour  or  buttermilk.    "  Loppered  "  cream 

is  still  better. 
2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  bot  water. 
1  "  salt. 

Chop  up  the  shortening  in  the  salted  flour,  as  for  pas- 
try. Add  the  eggs  and  soda  to  the  milk ;  put  all  together, 
handling  as  little  as  may  \xa  Boll  lightly  and  quickly 
into  two  sheets,  the  one  intended  for  the  upper  crust  half 
an  inch  thick,  the  lower  less  than  this.  Lay  the  latter 
smoothly  in  a  well-greased  baking-pan,  strew  it  thickly 
with  raspberries,  blackberries,  or,  what  is  better  yet, 
huckleberries ;  sprinkle  four  or  five  tablespoonfuk  of  sugar 
over  these,  cover  with  the  thicker  crust,  and  bake  from 
twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes,  until  nicely  browned,  but 
not  dried.  Eat  hot  for  break&st  with  butter  and  pow- 
dered sugar. 

If  sweet  milk  be  used,  add  two  tea-spoonfuls  cream- 
tartar  sifted  into  the  dry  flour.  It  should  be  mixed  as  soft  as 
can  be  rolled.  This  shortcake  is  very  nice  made  with  the 
common  "  black-caps  '*  or  wild  raspberries. 

Strawbebry  Shortcake.  >J» 

1  quart  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  large  cup  sour  cream  or  very  rich  "  loppered  "  milk. 

4  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 

Proceed,  in  mixing  and  baking,  as  with  the  huckleberry 
short-cake,  except  that,  instead  of  putting  the  berries  be- 
tween the  crust,  you  lay  one  sheet  of  paste  smoothly  upon 


AXE,   ETC.  267 

me-  While  warm — not  hot — 
come  apart  easily,  just  where 
DD  the  lower  a  thick  coating 
es;  gprinlcle  powdered  sugar 
KT  with  the  upper  crust.  It 
shortcake  in  round  jelly-cake 
Je  deeper  than  these,  as  they 
ale,  while  the  hot  short-cake  is 
icea,  and  piled  upon  a  plate. 
esteemed  a  great  delicacy  in 
«a,  cut  into  triangles  like  pie, 
'er  each  slice,  with  more  sugar 


HORT-BREAIX 

mr- 

t  butter. 

rdered  sugar. 

ter  tc^ther,  having  made  the 
it  near  the  fire.  Knead  in  the 
If  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  in 
Bake  upon  buttered  paper  in 
1  of  a  delicate  yellowish  brown. 

s  Shortcake. 

ifted. 

ia  much  lard. 

ughly  dissolved  in  just  enough 
ind  well  worked  in- 

ble  you  to  roll  out  into  paste 
nto  s<]uarc3,  prick  with  a  fork, 
lit,  butter,  and  eat  while  hot 


298  COMMON  SENSE. 

Easteb  Buns  {''Hot  Orosa").  S 

3  cups  sweet  milk. 

1  cup  yeast,  or  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast* 

Flour  to  make  thick  batter. 

Set  this  as  a  sponge  over  night.    In  the  morning  add — 

1  cup  sugar. 

i  cup  butter,  melted. 

i  nutmeg. 

1  saltspoonfiil  salt 

Flour  enough  to  roll  out  like  biscuit.  Elnead  well,  and 
set  to  rise  for  five  hours.  Roll  half  an  inch  thick,  cut 
into  round  cakes,  and  lay  in  rows  in  a  buttered  baking- 
pan.  When  they  have  stood  half  an  hour,  make  a  cross 
upon  each  with  a  knife,  and  put  instantly  into  the  oven. 
Bake  to  a  light  brown,  and  brush  over  with  a  feather  or 
soil  bit  of  rag,  dipped  in  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  up 
stiffwith  white  sugar. 

These  are  the  "  hot  cross-buns  "  of  the  "  London  cries." 

Plain  Buns 

Are  made  as  above,  but  not  rolled  into  a  sheet.  Knead 
them  like  biscuit-dough,  taking  care  not  to  get  it  too  stlfff 
and  after  the  five-hour  rising,  work  in  two  or  three  hand- 
fuls  of  currants  which  have  been  previously  well  washed 
and  dredged  with  flour.  Mould  with  your  hands  into 
round  balls,  set  these  closely  together  in  a  pan,  that  they 
may  form  a  loaf — **one,  yet  many" — when  baked.  Let 
them  stand  nearly  an  hour,  or  until  very  light ;  then  bake 
from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour  until  brown.  Wash 
them  over  while  hot  with  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar. 

These  are  generally  eaten  cold,  or  barely  warm,  and 
are  best  the  day  they  are  baked. 


J 


r 


bhobtoake,  eto.  299 

Cake. 

Use  none  but  the  best  materials  for  making  cake.  If 
jrou  cannot  afford  to  get  good  flour,  dry  white  sugar,  and 
the  best  family  butter,  make  up  your  mind  to  go  without 
your  cake,  aud  eat  plain  bread  with  a  clear  conscience. 

There  are  do  intermediate  degrees  of  quality  in  eggs.  I 
believe  I  have  said  that  somewhere  else,  but  it  ought  to 
be  repeated  just  here.  They  should  be,  like  CsBsar's  wife, 
above  suspicion.  A  tin  whisk  or  whip  is  best  for  beating 
them.  The  ''  Dover  Egg-beater  "  is  the  best  in  the  market 
All  kinds  of  cake  are  better  for  having  the  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately.  Beat  the  former  in  a  large  shal- 
low dish  until  you  can  cut  through  the  froth  with  a  knife, 
leaving  as  clear  and  distinct  an  incision  as  you  would  in  a 
solid  substance.  Beat  the  yolks  in  an  earthenware  bowl 
until  they  cease  to  froth,  and  thicken  as  if  mixed  with 
flour.  Have  the  dishes  cool — not  too  cold.  It  is  hard 
to  whip  whites  stiff  in  a  warm  room. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Cakes  often  fail 
because  this  rule  is  not  followed.  Beat  these  as  faithfully 
as  you  do  the  eggs,  warmiug  the  butter  very  slightly  if 
hard.     Use  only  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon  in  doiug  this. 

Do  not  use  fresh  and  stale  milk  in  the  same  cake.  It 
acts  as  disastrously  as  a  piece  of  new  cloth  in  an  old 
garment.  Sour  milk  makes  a  spongy  cake ;  sweet,  one 
closer  in  grain. 

Study  the  moods  and  tenses  of  your  oven  carefully  be- 
fore essaying  a  loaf  of  cake.  Confine  your  early  efforts 
to  tea-cakes  and  the  like.  Jelly-cake,  baked  in  shallow 
flat  tins,  is  good  practice  during  the  novitiate.  Keep  the 
heat  steady,  and  as  good  at  bottom  as  top. 

Streaks  in  cake  are  caused  by  unskilful  mixing,  too 
rapid  or  unequal  baking,  or  a  sudden  decrease  in  heat  be* 
fore  the  cake  is  quite  done. 


800  oomcoir  vbsse. 

Don't  delude  yourself,  and  maltreat  those  who  are  to 
eat  your  cake,  by  trying  to  make  soda  do  the  whole  or 
most  of  the  duty  of  ^gs.  Others  have  tried  it  before, 
with  unfortunate  results.  If  curiosity  tempt  you  to  the 
experiment,  you  had  better  allay  it  by  buying  some 
sponge-cake  at  the  corner  bakery. 

Test  whether  a  cake  is  done  by  rUnning  a  clea?:>  straw 
into  the  thickest  part    It  should  come  up  clean. 

Do  not  leave  the  oven-door  open,  or  change  the  cake 
from  one  oven  to  the  other,  except  in  extreme  cases.  If 
it  harden  too  fast  on  the  top,  cover  with  paper.  It  should 
rise  to  full  height  before  the  crust  forms. 

Except  for  gingerbread,  use  none  but  white  sugar^ 

Always  sift  the  flour. 

Be  accurate  in  your  weights  and  measures. 

There  is  nx)  royal  road  to  good  fortune  in  eake-malang, 
Wliat  is  worth  doing  at  all  is  worth  doing  well.  There  is 
no  disgrace  in  not  having  time  to  mix  and  bake  a  cake. 
You  may  well  be  ashamed  of  yourself  if  you  are  too  lazy, 
or  careless,  or  hurried  to  beat  your  eggs,  cream  your  but- 
ter and  sugar,  or  measure  your  ingredients. 

Yet,  sometimes,  when  you  believe  you  have  left  no 
means  untried  to  deserve  success,  failure  is  your  portion. 
What  then  ? 

If  the  cake  be  uneatable,  throw  it  away  upon  the  firet 
beggar-boy  who  comes  for  broken  meat,  and  say  nothing 
about  it.  If  streaky  or  burned,  cut  out  the  best  parts,  make 
them  as  presentable  as  possible,  and  give  them  to  John 
and  the  children  as  a  "second-best"  treat  Then  keep 
up  a  brave  heart  and  try  again.  You  may  not  satisfy 
yourself  in  a  dozen  trials.  You  certainly  will  not,  if  you 
never  make  another  attempt 

Cake  should  be  wrapped  in  a  thick  cloth  as  soon  as 
cool*  and  kept  in  tight  tin  boxes.     Do  not  cut  more,  at  a 


301 

I 

?  time  than  70a  are  likely  to  use,  as  it  is  not  good  when 

I  dry.     Jelly-cakes  are  best  set  away  upon  plates,  cloths 

I  wrapped  closely  about  them,  and  a  box  enclosing  all. 

Cream  your  sugar  and  butter,  measure  milk,  spices,  etc., 
before  beginning  work.  For  fruit-cake  it  is  best  to  pre- 
pare the  materials  the  day  before.  Let  your  icing  dry 
thoroughly  before  wrapping  up  the  cake. 

Sift  your  flour  be/ore  measuring,  as  all  the  following 
receipts  are  for  sifted  flour. 

Icing.  ^< 

Whites  of  4  eggs. 

1  pound  powdered  white  sugar. 

LemoQ,  vanilla,  or  other  seasoning. 
Break  the  whites  into  a  broad,  clean,  cool  dish.  Throw 
a  small  handful  of  sugar  upon  them,  and  begin  whipping 
it  in  with  slow,  steady  strokes  of  the  beattr.  A  few 
minutes  later,  throw  in  more  sugar,  and  keep  adding  it  at 
intervals  until  it  is  all  used  up.  Beat  pei*severingly  until 
the  icing  is  of  a  smooth,  fine,  and  firm  texture.  Half  an 
hour's  beating  should  be  suflScient,  if  done  well.  If  not 
stiff  enough,  put  in  more  sugar.  A  little  practice  will 
teach  you  when  your  end  is  gained-  If  you  season  with 
lemon-juice,  allow,  in  measuring  your  sugar,  for  the  addi- 
tional liquid.  Lemon-juice  or  a  very  little  tartaric  acid 
whitens  the  icing.  Use  at  least  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  for  each  egg. 

This  method  of  making  icing  was  taught  me  by  a  con- 
fectioner, as  easier  and  surer  than  the  old  plan  of  beating 
the  eggs  first  and  alone.  I  have  used  no  other  since  my 
first  trial  of  it.  The  frosting  hardens  in  one-fourth  the 
time  required  under  the  former  plan,  and  not  more  than 
half  the  time  is  consumed  in  the  manufacture.  I  have 
often  iced  a  cake  but  two  hours  before  it  was  cut 


802 


COMSCOir  BEXSE. 


Or:  To  the  white  of  each  egg  allow  one  cupful  of 
powdered  sugar ;  break  the  whites  into  a  platter,  add  aU 
the  sugar,  and  stir  until  thick  and  smooth.  A  teaspoon- 
ful  of  lemon-juice  whitens  and  flavors  it. 

Pour  the  icing  by  the  spoonful  on  the  top  of  the  cake 
and  near  the  centre  of  the  surface  to  be  covered.  If  the 
loaf  is  of  such  a  shape  that  the  liquid  will  settle  of  itself 
to  its  place,  it  is  best  to  let  it  do  so.  If  you  spread  it,  use 
a  broad-bladed  knife,  dipped  in  cold  water.  If  it  is  as 
thick  with  sugar  aa  it  should  be,  you  need  not  lay  on 
more  than  one  coat  You  may  set  it  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  three  minutes,  if  you  are  in  great  haste.  The  better 
plan  is  to  dry  in  a  sunny  window,  where  the  air  can  get 
at  it,  and  where  there  is  no  dust. 

Color  icing  yellow  by  putting  the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon 
or  orange  in  a  thin  muslin  bag,  straining  a  little  juice 
through  it,  and  squeezing  it  hard  into  the  egg  and  sugar. 

Strawberry-juice  colors  a  pretty  pink,  as  does  cran- 
berry-syrup. 

Almond  Icino. 

Whites  of  four  eggs.  1  pound  sweet  almonds. 

1  pound  powdered  sugar.        A  little  rose-water. 

Blanch  the  almond?  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them 

and  stripping  off  the  skins.     When  dry,  pound  them  to  a 

paste,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  moistening 

it  with  rose-water  as  you  go  on.     When  beaten  fine  and 

smooth,  beat  gradually  into  icing  prepared  according  to 

foregoing  receipt.     Put  on  very  thick,  and  when  nearly 

dry  cover  with  plain  icing. 

This  is  very  fine. 

Or, 

Mingle  a  few  bitter  almonds  with  the  sweet.    The  blended 

flavor  of  these  and  the  rose-water  is  very  pleasant. 


^ 


CAKE.  308 

Martha's  Cake  {^Ftyr  Jelly.')  >J* 
8  eggs. 
1  cup  sugar. 

Butter,  the  size  of  an  egg. 
1  cup  flour. 
1  even  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder. 

Bake  in  jelly- cake  tins,  and  spread,  when  cold,  with 
fruit-jelly. 

This  is,  although  so  simple  and  inexpensive,  an  admi- 
rable foundation  for  the  various  kinds  of  jelly,  cream,  and 
meringue  cake,  which  are  always  popular.  It  seldom  fails, 
and  when  well  mixed  and  baked,  is  very  nice.  If  pre- 
pared flour  be  used  leave  out  baking  powder.  It  makes 
a  nice  strawberry  short-cake.  Or  you  may  make  a  filling 
of  aliced  bananas,  or  grated  cocoanut  mixed  with  icin^. 

Mrs.  M.'s  Cup  Cake.  >J< 

1  cup  butter. 

2  "    sugar. 

3  cups  prepared  flour. 

4  eggs. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

Bake  in  a  loaf,  or  as  jelly-cake. 

Cream-Cake.     >J< 

2  cups  powdered  sugar. 
i  cupful  butter. 

4  eggs. 

i  cupful  milk. 

3  cups  of  prepared  flour. 

Bake  in  thin  layers  as  for  jelly-cake,  and  spread  between 
them,  when  cold,  the  following  mixture : — 


804  OOKMOV  0EN8B. 

i  pint  of  milk. 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  com-stazoh. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
i  cup  sugar. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  the  corn-starch, 
wet  with  a  little  cold  milk ;  take  out  a  little  and  mix 
gradually  with  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar ;  return  to  the 
rest  of  the  custard,  and  boil,  stirring  constantly  until  quite 
thick*  Let  it  cool  before  you  season,  and  spread  on  cake. 
Season  the  icing  also  with  vanilla. 

Jelly-Gakb. 
1  lb.  sugar. 
1  "  prepared  flour, 
i  "   butter. 
6  eggs. 
1  cup  milk. 

Bake  in  shallow  tins,  and  when  cold  put  jelly  between. 

Cocoandt-Cake.  >J< 

2  cups  powdered  sugar. 
i  cup  butter. 

8  eggs. 
1  cup  milk. 

3  cups  flour. 

1  rounded  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Bak- 
ing Powder. 

Bake  as  for  jelly-cake. 

Filling, 
1  grated  cocoanut. 

If  yon  cannot  get  fresh  cocoanut,  use  the  desiccated 
sold  by  grocers  for  this  purpose. 
To  one  half  of  this  add  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  to 


i 


SOS 

a  froth,  and  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar.    Lay  this 

between  the  layers. 
Mix  with  the  other  half  of  the  grated  cocoanut  four 
tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  and  strew  thickly  on  top 
of  caka 

Kobie's  Cocoanijt-Cakil 

2  cups  flour, 
li  "    sugar. 
i  cup  butter. 
J    "    sweet  milk. 
8  eggs. 

1    rounded    teaspoonful  of   Cleveland's 
Baking  Powder. 

Bift  the  baking  powder  into  the  dry  flour;  cream  the 
butter  and  sugar;  add  the  beaten  eggs,  then  the  milk; 
lastly  the  flour.     Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins. 

Orate  one  cocoanut ;  mix  with  it  a  cup  and  a  half  of 
white  sugar,  also  the. milk  of  the  cocoanut.  Bet  the  mix- 
ture in  the  oven  until  the  sugar  melts ;  then  spread  be* 
tween  the  cakes. 

Loaf  C!ocoakut-Caks. 
1  lb.  sugar. 
}   "  butter. 
6  eggs. 

}  lb.  prepared  flour. 
1   **  finely  grated  cocoanut,  stirred  lightly  in  the 

last  thing. 
Bake  immediately. 

'One,  Two,  Three,  Four"  C!ogoanx7T-Caks. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  "    flour. 


806  OOMMOK  8XVBE. 

4  eggs  (the  whites  only). 

1  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder  sifted 

into  the  flour. 
i  small  cocoanut,  stirred  in  at  the  last. 

Cocoanut-Cakes  {SfnalL) 

1  cocoanut,  carefully  skinned  and  grated. 

Milk  of  the  same. 

H  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

As  much  water  as  you  have  cocoanut  milk. 

Whites  of  three  eggs. 

Dissolve  one  pound  of  sugar  in  the  milk  and  water. 
Btew  until  it  becomes  a  ''ropy'*  syrup,  and  turn  out  into 
a  buttered  dish.  Have  ready  the  beaten  white  of  ^g, 
with  the  remaining  half-pound  of  sugar  whipped  into  it; 
mix  with  this  the  grated  cocoanut,  and  little  by  little — 
beating  all  the  while — ^the  boiled  syrup,  so  soon  as  it  cools 
sufficiently  not  to  scald  the  eggs.  Drop  in  tablespoonfuls 
upon  buttered  papers.  Try  one  first,  and  if  it  runs,  beat 
in  more  sugar.  Bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven,  watching 
to  prevent  scorching.  They  should  not  be  suffered  to 
brown  at  all. 

These  will  keep  some  time,  but  are  best  quite  fresh* 

Cocoanut  Cones. 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

i   "   grated  cocoanut. 

Whites  of  5  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  best  arrowroot 

Whip  the  eggs  as  for  icing,  adding  the  sugar  as  you  go 
on,  until  it  will  stand  alone,  then  beat  in  the  cocoanut 
and  arrowroot. 


CAKE.  307 

Mould  the  mixture  with  jour  hands  into  small  cones, 
and  set  these  far  enough  apart  not  to  touch  one  another 
upon  buttered  paper  in  a  baking-pan.  Bake  in  a  very 
moderate  oven. 

Lee  Cake.  >{< 

10  eggs. 

1  lb.  sugar. 
i  lb.  flour. 

2  lemons. 
1  orange. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately ;  add  to  all  the  yolks 
and  the  whites  of  seven  eggs  the  sugar,  the  rind  of  two 
lemons,  and  juice  of  one.     Bake  as  for  jelly-cake. 

To  the  whites  of  three  eggs  allow  a  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  powdered  sugar ;  beat  stiff  as  for  icing,  take  out  enough 
to  cover  the  top  of  the  cake  and  set  aside.  Add  to  the 
rest  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  rind  of  a  large  orange. 
When  the  cake  is  nearly  cold,  spread  this  between  the 
layers.  Beat  into  the  icing  reserved  for  the  top  a  little 
lemon-juice,  and,  if  needed,  more  sugar.  It  should  be 
thicker  than  that  spread  between  the  cakes. 

You  can  make  a  very  delightful  variation  of  this 
elegant  cake,  by  spreading  the  orange  icing  between 
layers  made  according  to  the  receipt  given  for  "  Martha's 
Jelly-Cake  "  several  pages  back,  and  frosting  with  lemon 
rrierinffve,  as  above. 

WHITE-MoUNTAm  CaKE. 

3  cups  sugar. 
1  cup  butter 
i   "     sweet  milk. 
Whites  of  ten  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder  sifted  with 
the  flour. 


808  OOMMOir  SENSE. 

4  cupe  flour. 

Flavor  with  essence  of  bitter  almond. 

Icingy  whites  of  three  eggs,  1  lb.  powdered  sugar 
Flavor  with  lemon-juice.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  and  fill 
with  grated  cocoanut,  sweetened  with  a  quarter  of  its 
weight  of  powdered  sugar,  or  with  icing  such  as  is  made 
for  Lee  cake,  only  flavored  with  lemon  entirely. 

French  Caks. 
1  lb.  sugar. 

i   "  butter. 

1   "  currants,  washed  clean  and  dredged  with  flour. 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

Nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

i  teaspoonful  soda  dtsaolved  in  three  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

Lemon  Cake  (^No.  1.) 

1  lb.  sugar. 

12  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

f  lb.  flour. 

Juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon. 

Icing  flavored  with  same. 

Baked  in  small  square  tins,  and  iced  on  sides  and  top, 
these  are  sometimes  called  biscuits  f/lcuies. 

Lemon-Cake  (iVb.  2.) 

1  cup  of  butter  (packed). 

2  scant  cups  of  sugar. 

10  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately. 
1  small  cup  of  milk. 
Juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon. 
1  small  teaspoonful  soda. 


r  (a  little  over  three 
cupe  will  be  Deeded 


band's  Baking  Pow- 


)* 


Le  m  square,  not  very 
I  vftuilla.    The  com- 


E.  ■{< 


ind. 

soda. 


and  frost  with  whites 
ad  Bugar. 


810  OOMtfOV  8E5BB. 

DovEB  Cake.  HE* 
1  lb.  flour. 
1    *'  white  sugar. 

i    ^*  butter,  rubbed  with  the  sugar  to  a  very  light  creaic 
6  eggs. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  vinegar. 
1  ''  powdered  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  rose-water. 

Flavor  the  frosting  with  lemon-juioe. 

Chocolate  Cake.  >J» 
2  cups  of  sugar. 
1  cup  butter. 

The  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  whites  of  twa 
1  cup  of  milk. 
3}  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder,  sifted 
twice  with  the  flour,  to  make  sure  it  is  well  mixed. 

Bake  in  jelly- cake  tins. 

Mixture  for  fiUing, 

Whites  of  three  eggs. 

li  cup  sugar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Beat  well  together,  spread  between  the  layers  and  on 
top  of  cake. 

Caramel  Cake.  >{< 

3  cups  sugar. 

li    "    butter. 

1  cup  milk. 

4}  cups  prepared  flour. 

5  eggs. 


Iialf  a  cake  Baker's 
consistency  of  rich 
well,  and  remove 

inful  of  TUiilU,  and 
ch  ebon  Id  be  baked 
1  the  same,  aod  set 

arge  cakes. 


n 


312  OOMHOIT  SENSE. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
i        **  allspioa 

}        "  soda. 

2  cups  flour. 
Yolks  of  three  ^gs. 

Bufter  your  mould,  and   put  in  the  dark  and  light 
batter  in  dtemate  tablespoonfuls. 

Marbled  Cake,  .{i 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar. 

3  "    flour. 
4^g8. 

1  cup  of  sweet  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder. 
Beat  quickly  and  hard  before  the  flour  goes  in. 

When  the  cake  is  mixed  take  out  about  a  teacupfid  of 
the  batter,  and  stir  into  this  a  great  spoonful  of  grated 
chocolate,  wet  with  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  milk.  Fill 
your  mould  about  an  inch  deep  with  the  yellow  batter, 
and  drop  upon  this,  in  two  or  three  places,  a  spoonful  of 
the  dark  mixtura  Give  to  the  brown  spots  a  slight  stir 
with  the  tip  of  your  spoon,  spreading  it  in  broken  circles 
upon  the  lighter  surface.  Pour  in  more  yellow  batter, 
then  drop  in  the  brown  in  the  same  manner  as  before, 
proceeding  in  this  order  until  all  is  used  up.  When  cut, 
the  cake  will  be  found  to  be  handsomely  variegated. 

Or. 
You  may  color  the  reserved  cupful  of  batter  with  enough 
prepared  cochineal  to  ^ve  it  a  fine  pink  tint,  and  mix  as 
you  do  the  brown. 


CAKE.  dl3 

Chocolate  Igiitg  (Simph.) 

i  cake  chocolate. 

i  cup  sweet  millL. 

1  tablespooDful  corn-starch. 

1  teaspoooful  vanilla. 

Mix  together  these  ingredients,  with  the  exception  of 
the  vanilla ;  boil  it  two  minutes  (after  it  has  fairly  come 
to  a  boil),  flavor,  and  then  sweeten  to  taste  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  taking  care  to  make  it  sweet  enough. 

Caramels  {Chocolate.) 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  % 
1  cup  molasses. 

1  tablespoonful  (heaping)  of  butter. 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

Boil  twenty-five  minutes ;  then  stir  in  half  a  pound  of 
grated  chocolate  wet  in  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and 
boil  until  it  hardens  on  the  spoon,  with  which  you  must 
stir  it  frequently.    Flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla* 

Chocolate  £olaib8. 

4^g8. 

The  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sugar. 
Half  their  weight  in  flour. 

1  scant  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder,  sifted 
well  with  the  flour. 

If  you  bake  these  often,  it  will  be  worth  your  while  to 
have  made  at  the  tinner's  a  set  of  small  tins,  about  five 
inches  long  and  two  wide,  round  at  the  bottom,  and  kept 
finn  by  strips  of  tin  connectmg  them.  If  you  cannot  get 
tiiM,  tack  stiff  writing-paper  into  the  same  shape,  stitch- 
ing each  of  the  little  oanoea  to  its  neighbor  after  the 
14 


S14  COBCMOir  8SK8E. 

manner  of  a  pontoon  bridge.  Have  these  made  and 
buttered  before  you  mix  the  cake ;  put  a  spoonful  of  bat- 
ter in  each,  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven.  When  nearly 
cold,  cover  the  rounded  side  with  a  caramel  icing,  made 
according  to  the  foregoing  receipt. 

These  little  cakes  are  popular  favorites,  and  with  a 
little  practice  can  be  easily  and  quickly  made. 

Ellie's  Cake.  >I« 
1  cup  of  sugar. 
i    "        butter. 
3  eggs. 

i  cup  sweet  milk. 
2}  cups  prepared  flour. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  and  fill  with  jelly  or  chocolate. 
A  simple  and  excellent  cake. 

Sponge  Cake. 

1  teacup  powdered  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

1  scant  teaspoonful    of  Cleveland's    Baking 

Powder. 
1  teacupful  flour. 

Flavor  with  lemon — half  the  juice  and  half  the  rind  of 
one.    Bake  twenty  miuutes  in  shallow  tins. 

Mrs.  M.*8  Sponge-Cake.  >J< 
12  eggs. 

The  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sugar. 
Half  their  weight  in  flour. 
1  lemon,  juice  and  rind. 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  very  light,  the  sugar  into  the 
formor  when  they  are  smooth  and  stiff;  next,  the  juioe 


810 

he  beaten- vhites; 

lirable  receipt  was 
'  her  beautiful  and 

□  tins  like  these," 
loea  not  taste  just 

:  in  shape,  with  al- 
;ave  an  order  fot  a 
&ucied  that  cake 
in  any  other  form, 
^ou  prepare  yours 
'hatever  shape  you 
adj,  and  cover  the 

vhich  sponge-cake 
eatly  to  the  sides 


lereland's    Baking 


:eat  care ;  beat  the 
mking  powder  well 


fl6  OOMMOK  BEKafe. 

1  lb.  sugar. 

f  "   butter. 

1  glass  brandy. 

1  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  maoe. 

Cream  half  the  flour  with  the  butter,  and  add  brandy 
and  spice.  Beat  the  yolks  until  light,  add  the  sugar, 
then  the  beaten  whites  and  the  rest  of  the  flour  altei> 
nately.  When  this  is  thoroughly  mixed,  put  all  together 
and  beat  steadily  for  half  an  hour. 

If  properly  made  and  baked  this  is  a  splendid  cake. 

Washington  Cakb. 
8  cups  sugar. 
2    **    butter. 
6  eggs. 
1  cup  milk. 
4  cups  flour 

li  teaspoonfuls  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder. 
Stir  very  lightly  after  adding  the  flour. 

Mix  as  usual  and  stir  iu,  at  the  laBt — 

}  lb.  currants  well  washed  and  dredged. 
i  **  raisins  seeded  and  chopped  fine,  then  floured. 
A  handful  of  citron  sliced  fine. 
Cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 
Fruit-cake  takes  longer  to  bake  than  plain^  and  the 
heat  must  be  kept  steady. 

Lincoln  Cake. 

f  lb.  butter. 
1  "  ^gar. 
1  lb.  flour. 
6egg8 


CAKE.  817 

2  cups  sour  cream  or  milk. 
1  grated  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  powdered  cinnamon. 
i  lb.  citron. 

1  tablespoonful  rose-water. 
1  teaspoonful  soda  dLssoived  in  hot  water,  and  stirred  into 
the  milk  just  before  adding  the  latter  to  the  cake. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  put  with  them  the  yolka 
whipped  light,  then  the  cream  and  spice,  next  the  flour, 
then  the  rose-water,  and  a  double-handful  of  citron  cut  in 
slips  and  dredged  ;  finally,  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Stir  all  well,  and  bake  in  a  loaf  or  in  a  **  card,"  using  a 
square  shallow  baking-pan. 

This  is  a  good  cake,  and  keeps  well. 

Black  or  Wedding  Cake. 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

1    "   butter. 

1    "   flour. 

12  eggs. 

1  lb.  currants  well  washed  and  dredged. 

1    ''   raisins  seeded  and  chopped. 

i   "   citron  cut  into  slips. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

2  teaspoonfuls  nutmeg. 
1  "  cloves. 
1  wineglass  brandy. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  and  stir  all  well  together  before  putting  in  half 
of  the  flour.  The  spice  should  come  next,  then  the 
whipped  whites  stirred  in  alternately  with  the  rest  of  the 
flour,  lastly  the  brandy. 


318  COMMON  SENSE. 

The  above  quantity  is  for  two  large  cakes.  Bake 
at  least  two  hours  in  deep  tins  lined  with  well-buttered 
paper. 

The  icing  should  be  laid  on  stiff  and  thickly.  This 
cake,  if'  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  will  not  spoil  in  two 
months. 

I  have  eaten  wedding-cake  a  year  old. 

Test  the  cakes  well,  and  be  sure  they  are  quite  done 
before  taking  them  from  the  oven. 

Fbuit-Cake  {plavMT.) 

lb.  powdered  sugar. 
"    flour. 
"    butter. 

eggs- 
lb.  currants — washed,  picked  over,  and  dredged. 

"    raisins — seeded  and  chopped,  then  dredged. 

"    citron  cut  into  slips, 
teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

''  cinnamon, 

glass  brandy. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then 
the  spice  and  the  whipped  whites  alternately  with  the 
flour ;  the  fruit  and  brandy  last 

Almond  Cake. 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
1    "  prepared  flour. 
\    "  butter. 
8  eggs. 

1  coffee-cupful  sweet  almonds,  blanched  by  putting  them 
into  hot  water,  and,  when  stripped  of  their  skins  and 


OAKS.  819 

perfectly  cold,  beaten  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a  Wedge- 
wood  mortar,  with  a  little  roee-water  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  essence  of  bitter  almonds. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately;  stir  butter  and  sugar 
to  a  cream ;  add  to  this  the  yolks ;  beat  very  hard  before 
putting  in  the  flour ;  stir  in  the  almond-paste  alternately 
with  the  whites.     Put  in  the  brandy  last 

Season  the  icing  with  rose-water. 

Nut-Cake.  ^ 

2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  butter. 

3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  cold  water. 

4  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder. 

2  cupfuls  kernels  of  hickory-nuts  or  white  walnuts, 
carefully  picked  out,  and  added  last  of  all. 
Add  the  water  as  you  would  milk. 

Gold  Cake.  >J« 
1  lb.  sugar. 

*  "  butter. 

1  "  flour. 

Yolks  of  ten  eggs — well  beaten. 

Grated  rind  of  one  orange,  and  juice  of  two  lemons. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  stir  in  the  yolks 
Beat  very  hard  for  five  minutes  before  putting  in  the  flour* 
The  soda  next,  and  lastly  the  lemon-juice,  in  which  the 
grated  orange-peel  should  have  been  steeped  and  strained 
out  in  a  piece  of  thin  muslin,  leaving  the  flavoring  and 
coloring  matter  in  the  juice. 

Flavor  the  icing  also  with  lemon. 


820  common  bbnbb. 

Silver  Cake.  ^ 

1  lb.  sugar. 

f  "  flour. 

i  "  butter. 

Whites  of  ten  eggs — whipped  very  stiff. 

1  large  teaspoonful  essence  bitter  almonds 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  put  next  the  whites  of  the 
egga ;  then  the  flour,  lastly  the  flavoring. 

Make  gold  and  silver  cake  on  the  same  day;  bake  them 
in  tins  of  corresponding  size,  and  lay  them  in  alternate 
slices  in  the  cake-basket  Flavor  the  icing  of  silver  cake 
with  rose-water. 

Almond  Macaroons. 

Prepare  the  almonds  the  day  before  you  make  tbe  cakes, 
by  blanching  them  in  boiling  water,  stripping  ofl*  the  skins, 
and  pounding  them  vrhea  perfectly  cold — a  few  at  a  time- 
in  a  Wedge  wood  mortar,  adding  from  time  to  time  a  little 
rose-water.  When  beaten  to  a  smooth  paste,  stir  in,  to  a 
pound  of  the  sweet  almonds,  a  generous  tablespoonful  of 
essence  of  bitter  almonds;  cover  closely,  and  set  away  in  a 
cold  place  until  the  morrow.  Then  to  a  pound  of  the  nuts 
allow: — 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

The  beaten  whites  of  eight  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  arrowroot 

Stir  the  sugar  and  white  of  egg  lightly  together;  then 
whip  in  gradually  the  almond-paste. 

Line  a  broad  baking-pan  with  buttered  white  paper; 
drop  upon  this  spoonfuls  of  the  mixture  at  such  distances 
apart    as    shall   prevent  their  running  together.    Sift 


CAKS.  821 

powdered  sugar  thicklj  upon  each,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  to  a  delicate  brown. 

Try  the  mixture  first,  to  make  sure  it  is  of  the  right 
coDsistCDcj,  and  if  the  macaroons  run  into  irregular 
shapes,  beat  in  more  sugar.  This  will  hardly  happen, 
however,  if  the  mixture  is  already  well  beaten. 

Huckleberry  Cake.  >{< 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 
5  eggs. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  "  nutmeg,  and  the  same  of  cinnamon. 

1  qt.  ripe,  fresh  huckleberries,  thickly  dredged  with  flour. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  beaten 
yolks;  then  the  milk,  the  flour,  and  spice,  the  whites 
whipped  stiff,  and  the  soda.  At  the  last  stir  in  the 
huckleberries  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  paddle,  not  to  bruise 
them.  Bake  in  a  loaf  or  card,  in  a  moderate  but  steady 
oven,  until  a  straw  comes  out  clean  from  the  thickest  part. 

This  is  a  delicious  cake,  and  deserves  to  be  better  known. 
It  is  best  on  the  second  day  after  baking. 

Corn-Starch  Cake.  >i< 

2  cups  sugar,  1      , ,    , 

1  cup  butter. /™^^d*°»°'«^ 

1  cup  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately, 
i  cup  corn -starch. 

li  teaspoonfuls  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder. 
Beat  up  well  before  adding  flour. 

14* 


822  OOMMOK  SENSE. 

Sifib  the  corn-starch  with  the  flour,  and  add  the  last 
thing.  Bake  in  small  tins  and  eat  while  fresh.  They 
dry  in  two  or  three  days  and  become  insipid,  but  are 
very  nice  for  twenty-four  hours  after  thej  are  baked. 

White  Cake.  >I< 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 
Whites  of  five  eggs. 
8  cups  prepared  flour. 

COOKIES,  ETC. 

Mrs.  B.'s  Cookies.  >{« 

6  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately. 
1  cup  butter. 
3  cups  sugar. 

Flour  to  make  batter  just  stiflT  enough  to  be  moulded 
with  well-floured  hands. 
Flavor  with  lemon. 
Make  into  round  cakes  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Small  Sugar  Cakes. 

1  heaping  teacup  of  sugar. 
f  teacup  of  butter. 

\  teacup  sweet  milk. 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1}  teaspoonfuls  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder. 
Flour  sufficient  to  enable  you  to  roll  out  the  dough. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 
Nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

Be  careful  not  to  get  them  too  stiff. 
Cut  in  round  cakes  and  bake  quickly. 


'AKES.    ( Very  nice.)  HE* 


red  ID  hot  water, 
seed  spriakled  through  the  flour, 
lat  ii  better,  chop  it  up  in  the 
in  the  water ;  mix  all  well  with 
[uare  cakea,  or  with  oval  mould, 


dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

leg. 

es- 

gh,  just  stiff  enough  to  roll  ouL 

with,  working  it  in  gradually. 

a  raisin  or  cumiDt  in  the  top  of 


EB  Cookies.  >}• 


{h  to  stiffen  into  a  Tollable  paste, 
r  seed  (grouud  or  beaten), 
wired  in  boiling  water. 


S24  COMMON  8ENBE. 

If  70a  use  sweet  milk,  add  two  teaspoonfiils  cream- 
tartar.  You  may  substitute  caraway  for  the  coriander-seed* 

Rice-Flour  Cookies. 
i  lb.  ground  rice. 
i  *'  rice-flour,  dried  and  sifted. 
1  ''    powdered  sugar. 
}  "  butter. 
4  eggs. 

Juice  and  half  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon. 
1  tablespoonful  orange-flower  water. 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  very  light ;  then  put  the  sugar 
with  the  yolks.  Beat  ten  minutes,  add  the  orange-flower 
water  and  lempn ;  lastly,  the  flour  and  whites  alternately. 
Beat  the  mixture  half  an  hour.  Bake  immediately  in 
patty-pans.     Eat  while  fresh. 

Molasses  Cookies  CGhod.) 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  molasses. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
1  tablespoonful  ginger. 
}  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Suflicient  flour  to  make  90ft  dough.  Mould  with  the 
hands  into  small  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven. 

Qinger-Snaps.  (No.  1.) 

1  cup  butter. 

1    "    molasses. 

1    "    sugar. 

i    "    sweet  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  saleratus. 

2  '*  ginger. 

Flour  for  tolerably  stiff  dongh. 


i 


COOKIES,  ETC. 


82& 


Ginger-Snaps  (No,  2.) 

1  large  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed. 

1  coffee-cup  sugar. 

1  cup  molasses. 

}    "    water. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

1        "  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1        *'  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Flour  for  pretty  stiff  dough. 

Roll  out  rather  thinner  than  sugar  cakes,  and  bake 
quickly.  These  ginger-snaps  will  keep  for  weeks,  if  lacked 
up. 

Gingeb-Snaps  (No.  8.) 

1  pint  molasses. 
1  teacup  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  ginger. 
1         '*  allspice. 

1  cup  butter. 
5  cups  flour. 

Boll  thin  apd  cut  into  small  cakes.  Bake  in  quick 
oven. 

Aunt  Margaret's  Jumbles. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 
1  teacup  milk. 
6  eggs. 

i  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
1        "  nutmeg. 

Sufficient  flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Boll  out,  cut  into 
shapes  and  sift  sugar  over  them  before  they  go  into  the 

OVOl. 


826  common  sen8b. 

Lemon  Jumblgb. 
legg. 

1  teacupful  sugar. 
i         "        butter. 
3  teaspoonfuls  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder. 

2  email  lemons,  juice  of  two  and  grated  rind  of  one 
The  juice  and  peel  must  be  added  the  last  thing. 

Mix  rather  stiff.    Boll  and  cut  out  with  a  cake-cutter» 

Ring   Jumbles. 
1  lb.  butter. 

1  "  sugar. 

4  eggs. 

1  lb.  flour,  or  enough  to  make  out  a  soft  dough 

Wineglass  (small)  rose-water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  jolks,  then 
the  rose-water,  next  half  the  flour,  lastly  the  whites,  stirred 
in  very  lightly,  alternately  with  the  remaining  flour. 
Have  ready  a  pan,  broad  and  shallow,  lined  on  the  bot- 
tom with  buttered  paper.  With  a  tablespoon  form  regu- 
lar rings  of  the  dough  upon  this,  leaving  a  hole  in  the 
centre  of  each.  Bake  quickly,  and  sift  fine  sugar  over 
them  as  soon  as  they  are  done. 

You  may  substitute  lemon  or  vanilla  for  the  rose- water. 

Mrs.  M.'s  Jumbles. 
1  cup  sugar* 

1   "    butter. 

i   *'    sour  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Nutmeg  to  taste. 
Flout  for  soft  dough. 
Bake  in  rings,  as  directed  in  previous  receipt* 


CAKES,  Bra 
I    JcitBI.EB. 


and  chopped  Bmall,  but  not 

red  in  bbiluig  water. 
;  stir  in  the  besten  yolks,  tha 
ywater,  the  almonds,  lafitly  the 
nd  quickly.  Drop  in  rings  or 
paper  and  bake  immediately. 
t«d  cocoanut,  or  the  chopped 
or  the  almondfl,  in  which  case 


TOshed  and  dredged, 
isaolved  in  hot  water, 
and  juice, 
ion, 
well  buttered  paper,  lining  a 


328  OOHOAOHf  SEHSB. 

4egg8 — yolks  and   whites  separate,  and  beaten   very 

stiff. 
1  lemon — all  the  juice,  and  half  the  grated  rind. 

Drop  upon  buttered  paper,  not  too  near  together.  Try 
one,  and  if  it  runs,  beat  the  mixture  some  minutes  longer 
hard,  adding  a  very  little  flour.  Your  oven  should  be 
very  quick,  and  the  cakes  a  delicate  yellow  brown. 

Lady's  Fingers 

Are  mixed  like  drop  sponge-cakes,  but  disposed  upon  the 
paper  in  long,  narrow  cakes.  They  are  very  nice  dipped 
in  chocolate  icing,  or  caramel. 

Aunt  Margaret  s  Crullers.  >}* 
1  lb.  butter. 
1}  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
12  eggs. 

Mace  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 
Flour  to  roll  out  stiff. 

This  is  for  a  large  quantity  of  crullers.  Roll  out  in  a 
thin  sheet,  cut  into  shapes  with  a  jagging-iron,  and  fry  in 
plenty  of  boiling  lard.  Test  the  heat  first  by  dropping  in 
one.  It  should  rise  almost  instantly  to  the  surface.  Crul- 
lers and  doughnuts  soak  in  fat  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle. 
These  should  be  a  fine  yellow. 

The  most  delicious  and  the  nicest-looking  crullers  I 
have  ever  seen  were  made  by  the  dear  old  lady  from  whom 
I  had  this  receipt.  They  were  as  pretty  and  perfect  a 
picture  of  their  kind  as  she  was  of  hers. 

Crullers  are  better  the  second  day  than  the  first.  If 
the  fat  becomes  so  hot  that  the  crullers  brown  before  they 
puff  out  to  their  full  dimensions,  take  the  kettle  from  the 
fire  for  a  few  minutes.    Have  enough  cut  out  before  you 


CBULCBB8.  32EI 

begin  to  fry  them,  to  keep  a  good  supply  all  the  while  on 
the  fire.  If  you  undertake  the  task  alone,  cut  out  all  be- 
fore cooking  one. 

Katie's  Crullers. 

1  lb.  sugar. 

i  "  butter. 

6  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  sweet  milk. 

1  small  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  nutmeg. 

Sufficient  flour  to  roll  out  stiff 

"Mother's"  Crullers. 

li  teacup  sugar. 

}  teacup  sour  cream  or  milk. 

i      "      butter. 

legg. 

1  small  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Flour  to  roll  out  a  tolerably  stiff  paste. 

Annie's  Crullers. 

2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  eggs. 

2  cups  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Flour  to  roll  out  tolerably  stiff. 

Risen  Doughnuts. 

I  n>.  butter. 

II  lb.  sugar. 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 
4  eggs. 


830  comcoK  sense. 

1  large  cup  jeast,  or  one  cake  compressed  yeast 
dissolved  in  warm  water. 

1  tablespoonful  maoe  or  nutmeg. 

2  teaspooufuls  cinnamon. 

Flour  to  make  all  stiff  as  bread  dough« 
1  teaspooDful  salt 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  milk,  yeast,  and 
one  quart  and  a  pint  of  flour.  Set  to  rise  over  night  In 
the  morning  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  with  the 
spice  and  rest  of  the  flour.  Bet  to  rise  until  light;  roll 
into  a  pretty  thick  sheet,  cut  out,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 
Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them  while  hot 

Quick  Doughnttts. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 
4  eggs. 

1  cup  sour  milk  or  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

}  **         cinnamon. 

Flour  to  roll  out  in  pretty  soft  dough. 

Cut  into  shapes  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


Soft  Gingerbread.  ^ 

1  cup  butter. 

1   "     molasses. 

1   "     sugar. 

1   "     sour  or  buttermilk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

2  eggs. 


Abatd  five  cupe  of  flour — enough  to  make  it  thick  as 
cup-cake  batter,  perhaps  a  trifle  thicker.  Work  in  four 
cups  first,  and  add  very  cautiously. 

Stir  butter,  sugar,  molasses,  and  spice  together  to  a 
light  cream,  set  them  on  the  range  until  slightly  warm ; 
beat  the  eggs  light ;  add  the  milk  to  the  warmed  mixture, 
then  the  eggs,  the  soda,  and  lastly  the  flour.  Beat  very 
hard  ten  minutes,  and  bake  at  once  in  a  loaf,  or  in 
small  tins.  Half  a  pound  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  half, 
will  improve  this  excellent  gingerbread.  Dredge  them 
well  before  putting  them  in.     Add  them  at  the  last 

Sponge  Oinoerbread  i^^glesa.)  ^ 

5  cups  flour. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  batter. 

1  cup  molasses. 

1  "    sugar. 

1  "     milk  (sour  is  best). 

2  teaspoonfuls  saleratus,  not  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
2  teaspoonfuls  ginger. 

1  *'         cinnamon. 

Mix  the  molasses,  sugar,  butter,  and  spice  together ; 
warm  them  slightly,  and  beat  until  they  are  lighter  in 
color  by  many  degrees  than  when  you  began.  Add  thd 
milk,  then  the  soda,  and  having  mixed  all  well,  put  in  the 
flour.  Beat  very  hard  five  minutes,  and  bake  in  a  broad, 
shallow  pan,  or  in  pcUe-tin&.  Half  a  pound  of  seeded 
raisins  cut  in  pieces  will  be  a  pleasant  addition. 

Try  this  gingerbread  warm  for  tea  or  luncheon,  with  a 
cup  of  hot  chocolate  to  accompany  it,  and  you  will  soon 
repeat  the  experiment. 


832 


FUON  GiNOERBBEAD. 

2  cupe  molasses. 

i  cup  lard. 

i   "    butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

Thicken  with  flour  to  a  soft  dough. 

Warm  the  molasses,  lard,  butter,  and  ginger,  and 
beat  them  ten  minutes  before  adding  the  milk,  soda,  and 
flour.  Roll  out,  cut  into  shapes,  and  bake  in  a  quick, 
but  not  too  hot  oven.  Keep  in  a  tight  tin  box.  Brush 
•ver  with  white  of  egg  while  hot 

GiNOERBREAD  LOAF  (Jfo.  1.) 

1  cup  butter. 

1   "    molasses. 

1   "    sugar.  • 

i  "    cold  water. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

1  *'  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Flour  to  make  stiff  batter. 

Melt  the  butter,  slightly  warm  the  molasses,  spioe,  and 
sugar,  and  beat  together  ten  minutes.  Then  put  in  the 
water,  soda,  and  flour.  Stir  very  hard,  and  bake  in  three 
small  loaves.  Brush  them  over  with  syrup  while  hot,  and 
eat  fresh. 

Loaf  Gingerbread  (No.  2.) 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  molasses. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 


r 


2  eggs,  very  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  saleratus. 

1  cup  milk,  sweet  or  sour.    If  sour,  heap  your  spoon 
with  saleratus. 

Flour  to  the  coosistencj  of  pound  cake. 

Spiced  Ginoerbbead. 

1  lb.  flour. 
1  "   sugar. 
i  "   butter. 
5  eggs. 

1  rounded  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Pow- 
der. 
8  tablespoonfuls  sweet  milk. 
1  large  tablespoonful  ginger. 
1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
1  "  nutmeg. 

1  "  cinnamon. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  stir  in  yolks,  milk,  and 
spice,  lastly  flour  in  which  the  baking  powder  has  been 
mixed.    Bake  in  square  or  round  loaves. 

Sugar  Gingerbread. 

1  cup  of  butter. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

1  cup  sour  cream  or  milk. 

3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

5  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to  roll  out  soft.    Cut  in 
shapes,  brush  over  with  white  of  egg  while  hot,  and  bake. 


334  ooxxov  behbb. 

Bread  Cake. 

On  baking-daj,  take  from  your  dough,  after  its  seooDd 
rising — 2  cups  risen  dough.     Have  ready,  also — 

2  cups  white  sugar. 

1  cup  butter,  creamed  with  the  sugar. 

8  eggs. 

1  even  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sweet  milk — cream  is  better. 
i  lb.  currants,  well  washed  and  dredged. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
1  •*  cloves. 

Beat  the  jolks  very  light,  add  the  creamed  butter  nnd 
sugar,  the  spice,  milk,  soda,  and  dough.  Stir  until  all 
are  well  mixed ;  put  in  the  beaten  whites,  lastly  the  ftuiU 
Beat  hard  five  minutes,  let  it  rise  twenty  minutes  in  two 
well-buttered  pans,  and  bake  half  an  hour  or  until  done. 

Fruit  Gixqerbbead. 
2  lbs.  flour. 
f  lb.  butter. 
1  lb.  sugar. 
1  lb.  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  ''   currants,  well  washed. 

2  cups  molasses. 

i  cup  sour  cream. 
6  eggs. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
1  "  cloves. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  warm  the  molasses  slightlvi 
and  beat  these  together;  then  the  beaten  yolks,  next  the 
milk  and  spice,  the  soda,  the  flour  and  whites  well  whipped 


6WEET  WAFEKS.  335 

lastly,  the  fruit,  which  must  be  thickly  dredged.    Beat 
well  before  baking. 

A  little  citron,  shred  fine,  is  an  improvement.  Bake 
in  two  broad  pans,  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  cake  will 
keep  a  long  time. 

Sweet  Wafers. 

6  eggs. 

1  pint  flour. 

2  oz.  melted  butter. 

1}  cup  powdered  sugar. 

1  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately  and  very  stiff,  rub 
the  sugar  and  butter  together,  and  work  in  first  the  yolks, 
then  the  milk,  then  the  flour  and  whites.  Bake  in  well- 
buttered  wafer  or  waflie-irons,  very  quickly,  browning  as 
little  as  possible.  Roll  them  while  hot  upon  a  smooth, 
round  stick,  not  larger  than  your  little  finger,  slipping  it 
out  carefully  when  the  cake  takes  the  right  shape. 

These  little  cakes  are  an  acceptable  addition  to  any 
tea  or  supper  table,  and  look  well  among  fancy  cakes  in 
a  basket 

Boston  Cream  Cakes.  >{« 

i  lb.  butter. 
}  "    flour. 
8  eggs. 
1  pint  water. 

Stir  the  butter  into  the  water,  wbich  should  be  warm, 
set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan,  and  slowly  bring  to  a 
boil,  stirring  it  often.  When  it  boils,  put  in  the  flour, 
boil  one  minute,  stirring  all  the  while ;  take  from  the 


336  OOMHON  BEJsmfi. 

« 
fire,  turn  into  a  deep  dish,  and  let  it  cool.     Beat  the  eggs 

very  light,  and  whip  into  this  cooled  paste,  first  the  yolks, 

then  the  whites. 

Drop,  in  great  spoonfuls,  upon  buttered  paper,  taking 

care  not  to  let  them  touch  or  run  into  each  other,  and 

bake  ten  minutes. 

Oream  far  filling- 

1  quart  milk. 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch. 

2  eggs. 

2  cups  sugar. 

Wet  the  corn-starch  with  enough  milk  to  work  it  into 
a  smooth  paste.  Boil  the  rest  of.  the  milk.  Beat  the 
eggs,  add  the  sugar  and  corn-starch  to  these,  and  so  soon 
as  the  milk  boils  pour  in  the  mixture  gradually,  stirring 
all  the  time  until  smooth  and  thick.  Drop  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  when  this  is  mixed  in,  set  the 
custard  aside  to  cool.  Then  add  vanilla  or  lemon  season- 
ing; pass  a  sharp  knife  lightly  around  the  puffs,  split 
them,  and  fill  with  the  mixture. 

The  best  cream  cakes  I  have  ever  tasted  were  made  by 
this  somewhat  odd  receipt.     Try  it. 

Nougat. 

1  lb.  sweet  almonds. 

f  "   fine  white  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  rose-water. 

Blanch  the  almonds  in  boiling  water.    When  stripped  . 
of  their  skins,  throw  them  into  ice-water  for  five  minutes. 
Take  them  out  and  dry  between  two  cloths.     Shave  with 
a  small  knife  into  thin  slips.     Put  them  into  a  slow  oven 
until  they  are  very  slightly  colored.    Meanwhile,  melt  the 


B87 

flugar — wtthoui  adding  water — in  a  farina  kettle  over  the 
fire,  stirring  it  all  the  while.  When  it  bubbles  up  and 
is  quite  melted  take  off  the  kettle  and  instantly  stir  in  the 
hot  almonds.  Have  ready  a  tin  pan  or  mould,  well 
buttered  and  slightly  warmed.  Pour  in  the  nougat; 
press  it  thin  and  flat  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan  if  you  mean 
to  cut  into  strips ;  to  all  sides  of  the  mould  if  you  intend 
to  fill  it  with  syllabub  or  macaroons.  Let  it  cool  in  the 
mould,  for  the  latter  purpose,  withdrawing  it  carefully 
when  you  want  it.  If  you  cut  it  up,  do  it  while  it  is  still 
warm — ^not  hot. 

The  syrup  should  be  a  bright  yellow  before  putting  in 
the  almonds. 


PIES. 

Use  none  but  the  best  butter  in  pastry. 

"  Cooking  butter  is  a  good  thing,"  said  a  grave  epicure 
to  me  once, ''  an  admirable  thing — in  its  place,  which  is 
in  the  soap-fat  kettle  or  upon  wagon-wheels  I " 

It  is  certainly  out  of  place  in  biscuits,  cake,  or  in  any 
substance  destined  for  human  palates  and  stomachs.  It  is 
never  less  in  place  than  in  pastry ;  never  betrays  its  vile- 
ness  more  surely  and  odiously. 

Butter  intended  for  pastry  should  be  washed  carefiilly 
in  several  clear,  cold  waters,  and  kneaded  while  under 
water,  to  extract  the  salt.  Then  wipe  it  dry  and  lay  it  in 
a  cold  place  until  you  are  ready  to  work  it  in. 

''Keep  cool,"  is  a  cardinal  motto  for  pastry-makers. 
A  marble  slab  is  a  good  thing  to  roll  out  paste  upon. 
Next  to  this,  the  best  article  is  a  clean  board  of  hard 
wood,  which  is  never  used  for  any  other  purpose.  It  is 
harder  to  make  good  pastry  in  warm  weather  than  cold, 
15 


838  OOmUOS  8B98B. 

on  account  of  the  tendency  of  the  butter  to  oil,  and  thm 
render  the  crust  heavy  and  solid. 

Few  people  know  what  really  good  pastry  is.  Fewer 
still  can  make  it.  It  has  no  inevitable  resemblance  either 
to  putty  or  leather.  It  is  light,  crisp,  flaky,  goodly  to 
behold — goodlier  to  the  taste. 

"  Pork  fat  and  pies  kill  more  people  yearly  in  the 
United  States  than  do  liquor  and  tobacco/'  said  a  popu- 
lar lecturer  upon  conservatism. 

Perhaps  so ;  but  I  incline  to  the  belief  that  bad  pastry 
is  answerable  for  a  vast  majority  of  the  murders.  Not 
that  I  recommend  pies  of  any  description  as  healthful 
daily  food — least  of  all  for  children.  But  since  they  are 
eaten  freely  all  over  our  land,  let  us  make  them  as  whol^ 
some  and  palatable  as  possible. 

Family  Pie-Crust  (No.  1.)  Hf* 

1  quart  flour. 

i  lb.  lard,  sweet  and  Arm. 

i  "    butter. 

1  small  teacup  ice-water. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  deep  wooden  bowl.  With  a  broa<J* 
bladed  knife,  or  a  sokall  keen  **  chopper,"  cut  up  the  lard 
into  the  flour  until  it  is  fine  aa  dust  Wet  with  ice-water 
into  a  stiff  dough,  working  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  until 
obliged  to  make  it  into  a  roll  or  ball  with  your  hands. 
Flour  these,  and  knead  the  paste  into  shape  with  as  few 
8trokes  as  will  effect  your  end.  Lay  the  lump  upon  a 
floured  kneading-board  and  roll  it  out  into  a  thiu  sheet, 
always  rolling  from  you  with  quick,  light  action.  When 
thin  enough,  stick  bits  of  butter  in  regular  close  rows  all 
over  the  sheet,  using  a  knife  for  this  purpose  rather  than 
your  hands.    Boll  up  the  paste  into  close  folds  as  yoa 


atteD  it  that  your  rolliDg-piu 
gain  as  thia  aa  before.  Baste, 
your  butter  is  gooe.  It  is  a 
ide  of  each  sheet  with  a  little 
ifore  making  it  into  a  roll 
t;  butter  jour  pie-pltites,  lay 
1,  cut  it  off  evenly  about  tha 
gather  u  p  the  scraps  left  from 
ler  sheet.  If  the  pies  are  to 
es  with  fruit  or  whatever  you 
this,  cut  it  to  fit,  and  press 
le  escape  of  the  juice,  with  a 
,  ornamenting  it  in  a  regular 

in  until  a  light  brown.  Be 
)  your  beat  as  great  at  the 
lower  crust  will  be  clammy 

1  fresh. 

lare  the  time,  to  lay  the  roll, 
up,  in  a  very  cold  place  for 
oiling  it  into  crust.  Indeed, 
stand  on  the  ice  an  hour  in 
inds  to  make  it  daky  as  well 

lands  as  may  be  practjcabl& 

insT  (No.  2.)  ^ 


)f  Cleveland's  Baking  Fow- 
I  stiff  dough. 


340  coMMoar  sesbe. 

Chop  half  the  butter  into  the  flour  until  it  looks  like 
yellow  sand  (sift  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour, 
passing  it  through  the  sieve  t^ice  to  make  sure  it  is  well 
mixed);  work  with  ice- water  into  stifl*  dough ;  roll  into  a 
thin  sheet,  baste  with  one-third  the  remaining  butter,  fold 
up  closely  into  a  long  roll,  flatten  and  re-roll,  then  baste 
again.  Repeat  this  operation  three  times,  until  the  butter 
is  gone,  when  make  out  your  crust 

This  is  an  easy  and  sure  receipt,  and  the  paste  very  fine. 

French  Puff  Paste.  ^ 

1  lb.  flour. 

i  "    butter. 

1  6gg  f  use  the  yolk  only. 

Ice- water. 

Chop  half  the  butter  into  the  flour ;  stir  the  beaten  e^ 
into  half  a  cup  ice-water,  and  work  the  flour  into  a  stiff 
dough ;  roll  out  thin,  baste  with  one-third  the  remaining 
butter,  fold  closely,  roll  out  again,  and  so  on  until  the 
butter  is  used  up.  Roll  very  thin,  and  set  the  last  folded 
roll  in  a  very  cold  place  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  mak- 
ing out  the  crust.  Wash  with  beaten  egg  while  hoL 
This  paste  is  very  nice  for  oyster-pSuis  ajs  well  as  for  fruit- 
pies. 

Puff-Paste. 

1  pint  flour 

i  lb.  butter. 

1  egg,  well  beaten.    Use  the  yolk  only. 

1  gill  ice-water. 

Mix  the  flour,  a  tablespoonfnl  of  butter,  the  beaten  egg 
and  ice-water  into  a  paste  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Flour 
your  pastry-board,  and  roll  out  the  crust  very  thin.    Put 


FIB^.  841 

the  rest  of  the  butter,  when  you  have  washed  it,  in  the 
centre  of  this  sheet,  in  a  flat  cake.  Turn  the  four  corners 
of  the  paste  over  it,  and  roll  out  carefully,  not  to  break 
the  paste.  Should  it  give  way,  flour  the  spot,  that  it  may 
not  stick  to  the  roller.  When  very  thin,  sprinkle  lightly 
with  flour,  fold  up,  and  roll  out  four  times  more.  Set  in 
a  cool  place  for  an  hour,  roll  out  again,  and  cut  into  tart- 
let-shells or  top  crust  for  pies. 

The  bottom  crust  of  pies  may  often  be  made  of  plainer 
pastry  than  the  upper. 

Tbakhparent  Crust.  {Very  rich.) 

1  lb.  flour. 

1   "  butter. 

1  egg — the  yolk  only. 

Wash  the  butter,  dry,  and  then  melt  it  in  a  vessel  set 
in  another  of  boiling  water,  stirring  gently  all  the  while 
to  prevent  oiling.  Take  ofl"  the  salty  scum  from  the  top, 
and  when  almost  cold  beat  up  the  butter  little  by  little 
with  the  egg,  which  should  be  previously  whipped  light. 
When  these  are  thoroughly  incorporated,  work  in  the 
flour,  roll  out  twice,  sprinkling  lightly  with  flour  before 
you  fold  it  up ;  let  it  stand  folded  Ave  minutes  in  a  cold 
place,  and  make  out  for  tartlets  or  pafes.  It  is  not  suit- 
able for  large  pies.  Bake  before  you  fill  them,  and  brush 
over  with  a  beaten  egg  while  hot. 

Mince  Pies  (No.  1.) 

4  lbs.  meat — %,  e.,  two-thirds  apple,  one-third  meat 
3    **    raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

2  "    currants,  washed,  picked  over,  and  dried. 

3  quarts  cider. 
1  pint  brandy. 


842 


COMMON  SENSE. 


1  heaping  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

1         *'  "  nutmeg. 

The  same  of  cloves,  and  half  the  quantity  of  maoe. 

Make  very  sweet  with  brown  sugar. 

The  meat  should  be  a  good  piece  of  lean  beef,  boiled 
the  day  before  it  is  needed.  Half  a  pound  of  raw  suet, 
chopped  fine,  may  be  added.  Chop  the  meat,  clean  out 
bits  of  skin  and  gristle,  and  mix  with  twice  the  quantity 
of  fine  juicy  apples,  also  chopped ;  then  put  in  the  fruit, 
next  the  sugar  and  spice,  lastly  the  liquor.  Mix  very 
thoroughly,  cover  closely,  and  let  all  stand  together  for 
twenty-four  hours  before  making  the  pies. 


Mince  Pies  (No.  2.)  *i< 

2  lbs.  lean  fresh  beef,  boiled,  and  when  cold,  chopped 
fine. 

1  lb.  beef-suet,  cleared  of  strings  and  minced  to  pow- 
der. 

5  lbs.  apples,  pared  and  chopped. 

2  **    raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  lb.  sultana  raisins,  washed  and  picked  over. 

2  lbs.  currants,  washed  and  care/vUy  picked  over. 
}  lb.  citron,  cut  up  fine. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  powdered  nutmeg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  mace. 
1  tablespoonful  cloves. 

1  "  allspice. 

1  tablespoonful  fine  salt 
2}  lbs.  brown  sugar. 
1  quart  brown  Sherry. 
1  pint  best  brandy. 

Mince-meat  made  by  this  receipt  will  keep  all  winter 


343 

in  a  cool  place-  Keep  in  stone  jars,  tied  over  with  double 
covers.  Add  a  little  more  liquor  (if  it  should  drj  out), 
when  you  make  up  a  batch  of  pies.  Let  the  mixture 
stand  at  least  twenty-four  hours  after  it  is  made  before  it 
is  used. 

Lay  strips  of  pastry,  notched  with  a  jagging-iron,  in  a 
orofis-bar  pattern,  upon  the  pie,  instead  of  a  top-crust. 

I  take  this  opportunity  of  warning  the  innocent  reader 
against  placing  any  confidence  whatever  in  dried  currants. 
I  years  ago  gave  over  trying  to  guess  who  put  the  dirt  in 
them.  It  is  always  there !  Gravel-stones  lurking  under  a 
specious  coating  of  curranty-looking  paste,  to  crucify 
grown  people's  nerves  and  children's  teeth ;  mould  that 
changes  to  mud  in  the  mouth;  twigs  that  prick  the 
throat,  not  to  mention  the  legs,  wings,  and  bodies  of  tropi- 
cal insects — a  curious  study  to  one  interested  in  the  ento- 
mology of  Zante.  It  is  all  dirt  I  although  sold  to  us  at 
curratd  prices. 

Wash  your  currants,  therefore,  first  in  warm  water, 
rolling  up  your  sleeves,  and  rubbing  the  conglomerate 
masses  apart,  as  you  would  scrub  a  muddy  garment 
Drain  them  in  a  cullender,  and  pass  them  through  three 
more  waters — cold  now,  but  cleansing.  Then  spread  them 
upon  a  large  dish,  and  enter  seriously  upon  your  geologi- 
cal and  entomological  researches.  "  Sultanas  " — sweet  and 
seedless — are  nearly  as  troublesome,  but  their  specialty  is 
more  harmless,  being  stickiness  and  stems. 

Nevertheless,  since  John  has  a  weakness  for  mince-pies 
(I  never  saw  an  un-dyspeptic  man  who  had  not),  it  is 
worth  your  while  to  make  them,  having  this  consolation, 
that  if  you  are  wise  you  need  not  engage  in  the  manufac- 
ture oftener  than  once,  or  at  most,  twice  a  winter.  But 
let  the  children  taste  them  sparingly,  and  never  at  night, 
if  yoQ  value  their  health  and  your  own  sound  elumbera. 


( 


► 


344  common  8en8b. 

Apple  Mince-Meat. 
2  Iba.  apples — pared  and  chopped, 
f  lb.  beef  suet — cleared  of  strings  and  powdered. 
1   "  currants. 

}   "  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 
i   '<  sultana  raisins, 
i  "  citron,  cut  into  shreds. 
1  lemon — juice  and  grated  rind. 
1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
1  **         mace. 

1  tablespoonful  allspice. 

2  lbs.  brown  sugar. 
Half-pint  best  brandy. 
A  glass  of  wine. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

Pack  down  in  a  stone  jar,  with  close  cover,  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place. 

Mock  Minos-Meat.  >{« 
6  soda  crackers — ^roUed  fine. 
2  cups  cold  water. 
1  cup  molasses. 
1   "    brown  sugar. 
1   "    sour  cider. 
1}  cup  melted  butter. 
1  cup  raisins — seeded  and  chopped. 

1  '^    currants. 

2  eggs— beaten  light. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon  and  allspice  mix*^ 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

1  "  cloves, 

1  "  salt 

1  "  black  pepper 

1  windlass  of  brandy. 


845 

"  Minoe-pie  in  Bumrner  is  a  pleasant  rarity/*  was  the 
remark  of  a  party  of  hungry  travellers,  in  semi-apology 
for  the  £eict  that  every  plate  made  a  return  journey  to  the 
comely  landlady,  who  was  dispensing  generous  triangles  of 
pie.  She  smiled  gratifiedly,  but  said  nothing  in  reply, 
until,  when  the  gentlemen  had  strolled  off  to  the  woods 
with  their  cigars,  she  came  upon  me,  seated  alone  on  the 
piazza,  and  grew  confidential  under  the  influence  of  that 
sort  of  free-masonic  understanding  housekeepers  have 
with  one  another,  almost  at  sight. 

''I  had  to  laugh,"  said  the  good  soul,  ''when  they 
praised  my  mince-pies.  They're  healthfuUer  in  summer 
time  than  the  real  thing." 

I  took  down  the  receipt  on  the  spot  from  her  lips.  If 
any  one  doubts  the  merits  of  the  counterfeit,  let  her  do  as 
I  did — try  it. 

Apple  Pie  (No,  1.)  »I* 
Pare,  core,  and  slice  ripe,  tart  winter  apples — Pippins, 
Greenings,  or  Baldwins — line  your  dish  with  a  good  crust, 
put  in  a  layer  of  fruit,  then  sprinkle  light-brown  sugar 
thickly  over  it,  scatter  half  a  dozen  whole  cloves  upon 
this,  lay  on  more  apples,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is  well 
filled.  Cover  with  crust  and  bake.  8ift  powdered  sugar 
over  the  top  before  sending  to  table. 

Apple  Pie  (No.  2.)  *i< 

Stew  green  or  ripe  apples,  when  you  have  pared  and 
cored  them.  Mash  to  a  smooth  compote,  sweeten  to  taste, 
and,  while  hot,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  butter  for  each  pie. 
Season  with  nutmeg.  When  cool,  fill  your  crust,  and 
either  cross-bar  the  top  with  strips  of  paste,  or  bake  with* 
out  cover. 

Eat  oold,  with  powti}er«d  sugar  strewed  over  it, 

16» 


846  coMMOir  sekbe. 

Apple  Cubxabd  Pie.  S 

3  cops  stewed  apple. 

Nearly  a  cup  of  white  sugar. 

6  eggs. 

1  quart  milk,  with  a  pinch  of  soda  stirred  in. 

Make  the  stewed  apple  very  sweet,  and  let  it  cool.  Beat 
the  eggs  light,  and  mix  the  yolks  well  with  the  apple,  sea- 
soning with  nutmeg  only.  Then  stir  in  gradually  the 
milk,  beating  as  you  go  on;  lastly  add  the  whites;  fill 
your  crust  and  bake  without  cover. 

Apple  Meringue  Pibb.  >{< 

Stew  and  sweeten  ripe,  juicy  apples,  when  you  have 
pared  and  sliced  them.  Mash  smooth,  and  season  with 
nutmeg.  If  you  like  the  flavor,  stew  some  lemon-peel 
with  the  apple,  and  remove  when  cold.  Fill  your  crust, 
and  bake  until  just  done.  Spread  over  the  apple  a  thick 
meringue,  made  by  whipping  to  a  stifi*  froth  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  for  each  pie,  sweetening  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  sugar  for  each  egg.  Flavor  this  with  rose-water 
or  vanilla ;  beat  until  it  will  stand  alone,  and  cover  the 
pie  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Set  back  in  the  oven 
until  the  meringue  is  well  "set"  Should  it  color  too 
darkly,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  it  when  cold.    Eat  cold. 

They  are  very  fine. 

Peach  pies  are  even  more  delicious,  made  in  this  man- 
ner. 

Pippin  Pieb. 

12  fine  ripe  pippins,  pared  and  grated. 

1  lb.  while  sugar 

}  lb  butter 

6  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separately  beaten. 

1  lemon — grated  peel  and  Joioe,  with  nutm^. 


PlliS. 


347 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks, 
then  the  lemon,  nutmeg,  and  apple ;  lastly  the  whites, 
yery  lightly.  Bake  in  paste,  with  cross-bars  of  the  same 
on  top. 

Pumpkin  Pie  (No.  1.)  ^ 

1  quart  Ftewed  pumpkin — pressed  through  a  sieve. 
9  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

2  scant  quarts  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  mace. 

1  "  cinnamon,  and  the  same  of  nutmeg. 

H  cup  white  sugar,  or  very  |^ht  brown. 
Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  crust  without 
cover. 

Pumpkin  Pie  (No.  2.) 

1  quart  pumpkin — stewed  and  strained. 
1       «     milk. 
1  cup  sugar. 

7  eggs — beaten  very  light. 

1  teaspoonful  ginger,  and  same  of  mace  and  cinna- 
mon each. 

Squash  Pie 

Is  made  precisely  like  pumpkin   pie,  except  that,  being 
less  rich,  it  requires  one  more  egg  for  each  pie. 


Sweet-Potato  Pie  (No.  1.) 

Parboil,  skin,  and  slice  crosswise  firm  sweet  potatoes. 
Line  a  dish  with  paste,  put  in  a  layer  of  sliced  potato, 
sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar,  scatter  among  them  a  few 
whole  cloves,  and  cover  with  more  slices.  Fill  the  disb 
in  this  order ;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  in  each 
pie ;  pour  in  a  little  water ;  cover  with  crust,  and  bake. 

Eat  cold. 


348  comm  ok  bek8e. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie  (No.  2.)  ^ 

1  lb.  mealy  sweet  potatoes.    The  finn  yellow  ones 

are  best, 
i  cup  butter. 
f    "    white  sugar. 
1  tablespoonfui  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
4  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
1  cup  of  milk. 
1  lemon,  juice  and  rind,  and  glass  of  brandy. 

Parboil  the  potatoes,  and  grate  them  when  quite  cold. 
If  grated  hot,  they  are  sticky  and  heavy.  Cream  the 
butter  and  sugar ;  add  the  yolk,  the  spice,  and  lemon ; 
beat  the  potato  in  by  degrees  and  until  all  is  light ;  then 
the  milk,  then  the  brandy,  and  stir  in  the  whites.  Bake 
in  dishes  lined  with  good  paste — without  cover. 

You  may  make  a  pudding  of  this  by  baking  in  a  deep 
dish — well  buttered,  without  paste.    Cool  before  eating. 

Irish  Potato  Pie  (or  pudding,)  »J< 

1  lb.  mashed  potato,  rubbed  through  a  cullender. 

}  lb.  butter — creamed  with  the  sugar. 

6  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separately. 

1  lemon — squeezed  into  the  potato  while  hot* 

1  cup  of  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  same  of  mace. 

2  cups  white  sugar. 

Mix  as  you  do  sweet  potato  pudding,  and  bake  in  open 
shells  of  paste.    To  be  eaten  cold. 


r 


349 


Lemon  Pie  {or  Tranapareni  Pudding.)  »J< 

i  lb.  butter. 

1  lb.  Bugar. 

6  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separately. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Grated  rind  of  two. 

1  nutmeg. 

i  glajss  brandy. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beat  in  the  yolks,  the  lemon, 
spice,  and  brandy,  stirring  in  the  whites  at  the  last. 

Bake  in  pie-crust,  open. 

You  may,  if  you  wish  to  have  these  very  nice,  beat  up 
the  whites  of  but  four  eggs  in  the  mixture,  and  whip  the 
whites  of  four  more  into  a  meringue  with  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  sugar  and  a  little  lemon-juice,  to  spread  over  the  top 
of  each  pie. 

Eat  cold.    They  are  very  nice  baked  in  pattypans. 

Lemon  Pie  (No.  2.)  >J< 
1  apple,  chopped  fine. 

1  lemon,  chop  the  inside  very  fine  and  grate  the  rind. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Butter,  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

This  is  just  enough  for  one  pie.  Take  the  thick  white 
rind  off  the  lemon  before  you  chop  it  Take  out  the  seeds 
carefully. 

Lemon  Cream  Pie.  >{« 

1  teacup  powdered  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  butter, 
legg. 


S50  COMMON  BEN8E. 

1  lemon — juice  and  grated  rind,  removing  the  seeds 

with  care. 
]  teacupful  boiling  water. 
1  tablespoonful  corn-starch,  dissolved  in  cold  water. 

8tir  the  corn-starch  into  the  water,  cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  and  pour  over  them  the  hot  mixture.     When 
quite  cool,  add  lemon  and  the  beaten  egg.   Take  the  inner 
rind  off  the  lemon  and  mince  very  small. 
Bake  in  open  shell. 

Lemon  Pie  (No.  3.) 

3  eggs. 

1  great  spoonful  butter. 
}  cup  white  sugar. 

Juice  and  grated  peel  of  lemon. 
Bake  in  open  shells  of  paste. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks 
and  the  lemon,  and  bake.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  m^ 
ringue  with  three  tablespoonfuk  powdered  sugar  and  a 
little  rose-water.  When  the  pies  are  done,  take  from  the 
oven  just  long  enough  to  spread  the  meringue  over  the 
top,  and  set  back  for  three  minutes.  This  mixture  is 
enough  for  two  small,  or  one  good-sized  pie. 
Eat  cold. 

Orange  Pie.  >J< 
3  eggs. 
i  cup  of  white  sugar 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  orange — juice  and  half  the  grated  rind. 
1  lemon — juice  and  grated  peel. 
Nutmeg  to  taste. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  beating  in  the  orange  and 


361 

lemon  antil  very  light ;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  fill  two 
pastry  shells  and  bake.  Beat  the  whites  stiff  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  and  when  the  pies  are 
done,  spread  over  them,  returning  to  the  oven  for  three  or 
four  minutes. 

Lemon  Tart. 

1  cup  sugar.    , 

2  lemons— all  the  juice,  and  a  teaspoonful   grated 
peel. 

1  teaspoonful  corn-starch,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
water. 

A  dozen  raisins  stewed,  cut  in  two  and  seeded. 

Beat  up  well,  and  bake  with  upper  and  lower  crust. 

Oranqe  Tartlets. 

2  fine  Havana  oranges,  juice  of  both,  and  grated  peel 
of  one. 

}  cup  of  sugar — J  cup  if  the  oranges  are  very  sweet. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

i  lemon — juice  only,  to  wet  1  teaspoonful  corn-starch. 

Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in   tartlet  shells 
without  cover. 

Chocolate  Tarts.  >J< 

4  egg9,  whites  and  yolks. 

i  cake  of  Baker  s  chocolate,  grated. 

1  tablespoonful  corn-starch  dissolved  in  water. 

3  "  milk. 

4  "  white  sugar. 

2  tea<*poonfuls  vanilla. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 

i  teaspoonful  cinnamoa 

1  '*  butter,  melted* 


352  COMMON  BEMBEL 

Rub  the  chocolate  smooth  in  the  milk  and  heat  to  boil- 
ing over  the  fire,  then  stir  in  the  corn-starch.  Stir  five 
minutes  until  well  thickened,  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
pour  into  a  bowl.  Beat  all  the  jolks  and  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  well  with  the  sugar,  aud  when  the  chocolate 
mixture  is  almost  cold,  put  all  together  with  the  flavor- 
ing, and  stir  until  light  Bake  in  open  sheik  of  pastry. 
When  done,  cover  with  a  meringue  nfiside  of  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  flavored  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice.     Eat  cold. 

These  are  nice  for  tea,  baked  in  pattypans. 

CocoA-KUT  Pie  (No.  1.)  »i« 
)  lb.  grated  cocoa-nut. 
f  "   white  sugar  (powdered.) 
6  oz.  butter. 
6  eggs — the  whites  only. 

1  glass  white  wine. 

2  tablespoonfuls  rose-water. 
1  tablespoonful  nutmeg. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  when  well  mixed,  beat 
very  light,  with  the  wine  and  rose-water.  Add  the  cocoa- 
nut  with  as  little  and  as  light  beating  as  possible ;  finally, 
whip  in  the  stiffened  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  few  skillful 
strokes,  and  bake  at  once  in  open  shells.  Eat  cold,  with 
powdered  sugar  sifted  over  them. 

These  are  very  pretty  and  delightful  pies. 

Cocoa-nut  Pie  (No.  2.) 

1  lb.  grated  cocoa-nut 
}  •'    butter. 
i  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
1  glass  of  brandy. 


853 


2  teaspoonfuls  lemon-juice. 

^  ^gg9 — white  and  yolks  separated. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together ;  beat  light  with  the 
brandy  and  lemon-juice ;  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks ;  lastly 
the  cocoa-nut  and  the  whites,  alternately.  Bake  in  open 
shells. 

Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  over  it. 

Cocoa-nut  Custard  Pie.  >J< 

1  lb.  cocoa-nut,  grated. 
}  "    powdered  sugar. 
1  quart  milk,  unskimmed. 
6  eggs  beaten  to  a  firoth. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  rose-water. 

Boil  the  milk,  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  whip  in  grad- 
ually the  beaten  eggs.  When  nearly  cold,  season ;  add 
the  cocoa-nut,  and  pour  into  paste-shells.  Do  not  boil  the 
egg  and  milk  together.    Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Some  put  the  custard  quite  raw  into  the  pie-dishes,  but 
the  cocoa-nut  is  apt,  in  that  case,  to  settle  at  the  bottom. 

You  may,  however^  pour  the  raw  mixture  into  cups, 
and  bake  by  setting  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  stirring 
veil  once,  as  they  begin  to  warm.  This  is  cocoa-nut  cup- 
custard,  and  is  much  liked. 

Chocolate  Custard-Pie. 

1  quarter-cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  grated. 
1  pint  boiling  water. 
6  eggs. 

1  quart  milk. 

}  cup  white  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla. 


854  COMVOK  SENSE. 

Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  a  very  little  milk,  stir  into 
the  boiling  water,  and  boil  three  minutes.  When  nearly 
cold,  beat  up  with  this  the  yolks  of  all  the  eggs  and  the 
whites  of  three.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the  milk,  season, 
and  pour  into  shells  of  good  paste.  When  the  custard  is 
"set" — but  not  more  than  half  done — spread  over  it  the 
whites,  whipped  to  a  froth,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

You  may  bake  these  custards  without  paste,  in  a  pud* 
ding-dish  or  cups  set  in  boiling  water. 

CORN-STAROH  CuSTARD  PlE.   »I< 

6  eggs. 

3  pints  milk. 

6  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

2  "  corn-starch. 

2  teaspoonfuls  essence  bitter  almonds. 

Boil  the  milk,  stir  in  the  corn-starch  wet  in  a  littler  eold 
milk,  and  boil  one  minute.  When  nearly  cold,  stir  \n  the 
sugar,  the  yolks  of  all  the  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  two ; 
flavor,  and  pour  into  your  paste-shells.  Whip  the  remain- 
ing whites  to  a  meringue,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  white 
sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  when  the  custard 
is  just  "  set,"  draw  your  pies  to  the  edge  of  the  oven  to 
spread  this  over  them.  Do  it  quickly,  lest  the  custard  £dl 
by  exposure  to  the  air. 

You  may  bake  this  as  a  pudding  by  omitting  tho  pastry. 
Eat  cold. 

If  you  have  not  corn-starch,  substitute  arrow-root  or 
rice-flour. 

Custard  Pie. 

4  eggs. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

4  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

Flavor  with  vanilla  or  other  essence. 


855 


Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  light,  and  mix  with  the  milk ; 
flavor,  whip  in  the  whites,  which  should  be  already  a  stiff 
froth,  mix  w^ll,  and  pour  into  shells.  Grate  nutmeg 
upon  the  top. 

Bake  this  as  eup-custard,  or  a  custard  pudding,  in  cups 
or  a  deep  dish  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 

Peach  Pie.  >J< 

Peel,  stone,  and  slice  the  peaches.  Line  a  pie-plate 
with  a  good  crust,  and  lay  in  your  fruit,  sprinkling  sugar 
liberally  over  them  in  proportion  to  their  sweetness.  Very 
ripe  peaches  require  comparatively  little.  Allow  three 
peach  kernels,  chopped  fine,  to  each  pie ;  pour  in  a  very 
little  water,  and  bake  with  an  upper  crust,  or  with  cross- 
bars of  paste  across  the  top. 

Some  simply  pare  the  peaches  and  put  in  whole,  pack- 
ing them  well,  and  sweetening  freely.  In  this  case  they 
should  be  covered  entirely  with  crust. 

For  one  of  the  most  delightful  pies  that  can  be  made  of 
any  fruit,  look  for  apple  meringue  pie,  and  substitute 
peaches.  Peach  meringue  pie  may  be  made  in  winter 
from  canned  peaches. 

Cherry  Pie. 

Line  the  dish  with  a  good  crust,  and  fill  with  ripe  cher* 
lies,  regulating  the  quantity  of  sugar  you  scatter  over 
them   by  their  sweetness.     Cover  and  bake. 

Eat  cold,  with  white  sugar  sifted  over  the  top. 

Blackberry,  Raspberry,  and  Plum  Pies 
Are  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Currant  and  Baspberry  Tart.  >{< 
To  three  oups  of  ourrants  allow  one  of  raspberries.  Mix 


856 


COMMON  SENSE. 


well  together  before  you  fill  the  cruet,  and  sweeten  ftbim* 
dantly.    Cover  with  crust  and  bake. 
Eat  cold,  with  white  sugar  sifted  over  it. 

Currant  Tart 

Is  made  as  above,  with  more  sugar.  The  most  comnion 
fault  of  currant  pie  is  extreme  sourness.  Small  fruits 
should  be  looked  over  carefully  before  they  are  cooked. 
Currants  are  troublesome,  but  they  must  nevertheless  be 
looked  after  warily  on  account  of  their  extreme  stemmi- 
ness. 

Green  Gooseberry  Tart.  >{« 

Top  and  tail  the  gooseberries.  Put  into  a  porcelain 
kettle  with  enough  water  to  prevent  bliming,  and  fltew 
slowly  until  they  break.  Take  them  off,  sweeten  toell, 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold  pour  into  pastry  shells, 
and  bake  with  a  top  crust  of  puff-paste.  Brush  all  over 
with  beaten  egg  while  hot,  set  back  in  the  oven  to  glaze 
for  three  minutes. 

Eat  cold. 

Ripe  (Gooseberry  Pie. 

Top  and  tail  the  berries.  Line  your  dish  with  crusty 
and  fill  with  berries,  strewing  white  sugar  among  them. 
Cover  and  bake. 

Damson  Tart. 

Pick  over  the  fruit,  put  in  a  dish  lined  with  pastry, 
sweeten  very  freely,  cover  and  bake.  Brush  with  beaten 
egg  when  done,  and  return  to  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes 
to  glaze. 

Cranberry  Tart. 
Wash  and  pick  over  the  berries.    Put  into  a  porcelain 
saucepan  with  a  very  little  watar,  and  finnner  nntU  lliey 


867 

burst  open  and  become  sofL    Run  through  a  cullender  to 
remove  the  skins,  and  sweeten  to  taste.     Bake  in  pastry 
shells,  with  a  cross-bar  of  pastry  over  the  top. 
• 

Strawberry  Pie. 

Cap  and  pick  over  the  berries,  arrange  in  layers,  be- 
sprinkle with  a  good  coating  of  sugar,  in  a  shell  of  pastry. 
Fill  it  very  full,  as  strawberries  shrink  very  much  in 
cooking.    Cover  with  crust  and  bake. 

Huckleberry  pie  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Cream  Raspberry  Tart.  >{« 

line  a  dish  with  paste  and  fill  with  raspberries,  made 
very  sweet  with  powdered  sugar.  Cover  with  paste,  but 
do  not  pinch  it  down  at  the  edges.  When  done,  lift  the 
top  crust,  which  should  be  thicker  than  usual,  and  pour 
upon  the  fruit  the  following  mixture  : — 

1  small  cup  of  milk — half  cream,  if  you  can  get  it, 
heated  to  boiling. 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  light  and  stirred  into  the 
boiling  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

i  teaspoonful  corn-starch  wet  in  cold  milk. 

Boil  these  ingredients  three  minutes ;  let  them  get  per- 
fectly cold  before  you  put  them  into  the  tart.  Replace 
the  top  crust,  and  set  the  pie  aside  to  cool.  Sprinkle 
sugar  over  the  top  before  serving. 

You  can  make  strawberry  cream  tart  in  the  same 
manner. 

Rhubarb  Tart.  (Open.) 
Skin  the  stalks  with  care,  cut  into  small  pieces ;  put 
into  a  sauoepan  with  very  little  water,  and  stew  slowly 


S58  OOMMON  8EN8E. 

until  sofl.  Sweeten  while  hot,  but  do  not  cook  the  sugar 
with  the  fruit  It  injures  the  flavor,  by  making  it  taste 
like  preserves.  Have  ready  some  freshly-baked  sheila 
Fill  up  with  the  fruit  and  they  are  ready  to  serve. 

You  may,  after  sweetening  the  stewed  rhubarb,  stir  in  a 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut  for  each  pie,  also 
a  well-beaten  egg  for  each,  and  bake  in  pastry.  Lay 
cross-bars  of  pastry  over  the  top. 

Rhubarb  Pie  (Covered.) 

Bkin  the  stalks,  cut  in  lengths  of  half  an  inch;  strew 
lavishly  with  sugar,  and  fill  the  crusts  with  the  raw  firuit 
Some  scatter  seedless  raisins  among  the  rhubarb.  Cover 
and  bake  nearly  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Brush  with 
egg  while  hot,  and  return  to  the  oven  to  glaze. 

Eat  cold,  as  you  do  all  firuit-pies. 


SERVANTS. 

Some  years  ago — more  than  I  care  to  count  over — ^I 
read  a  lively  little  book  entitled,  "The Greatest  Plague  of 
Life."  I  have  forgotten  who  wrote  it,  if  I  ever  knew.  It 
was  in  the  form  of  an  autobiography ;  the  heroine  called 
herself,  with  an  amusing  affectation  of  disguise,  Mrs. 
S-k-n-8-tpn/'  and  it  was  illustrated  by  Gkorge  Gruikshank. 
I  read  it  aloud  in  my  home-circle,  and  many  a  hearty 
laugh  we  had  over  the  poor  lady's  perplexities  and  ca- 
lamities. 

Regarding  the  history  as  a  clever  burlesque,  I  suffered 
ao  appreoiablo  draught  upon  my  sympathies  until  Ume 


SBBTAim.  359 

t  me  in  contact  with  eo  many  who 
icouldootbut  recur,  now  and  theu, 
to  her  sufierings  under  the  rule  of 
ip-stairs  with  a  carving-knife ;  with 
le  cherry-brandy,  lilhd  the  bottle 
id  kept  her  pitying  employers  up 
irough  an  epileptic  6t ;  with  John, 
ie  parlor  bell  "uolcsa  they  perse- 
h  could  not  bear  cold  meat  at  dio- 
ly  under  a  couple  of  pounds  at 
e  nuraery-mald  who  whipped  Mrs. 
another  who  upset  the  perambu- 
too  much  absorbed  in  the  suit  of  a 
to  note  what  had  happened,  went 
^  upon  its  side  until  the  baby's 
ified  by  the  gravel — besides  a  host 
for  the  distress  of  Mrs.  S-k-n-s-t-n's 

'ote  that  book,"  interrupts  a  fneud 
apropos  de  bottea,  have  you  seea 
, '  Servantgalism  ;  or.  What  Shall 
sueses  ? ' " 

lerica  must  bear  another  name," 
"  We  have  no  servants— at  least 
>k  is  forty-seven  years  old,  and  my 
who  has  buried  two  children;  yet 
a&ronted  were  I  to  speak  of  them 
a  generic  term  that  belongs  to  the 
rom  sixteen  up  to  sixty.  I  had  a 
at  a  month  since.  My  laundress, 
six  years,  was  thanking'  me  for  a 
brother. 

□u  for  it,  mem,'  she  sobbed.  'I'll 
knees,  night  and  morning.' 


360  OOMMON  SElfBS. 

**  I  am  glad  I  have  been  able  to  help  your  (riends, 
Katj/'  I  said.  "  You  have  been  a  faithful  seryant  to 
me 

She  cut  my  sentence  in  the  middle  by  walking  out  of 
the  room — I  supposed,  to  conceal  her  emotions.  I  was 
undeceived,  five  minutes  later,  when  her  angry  tones 
reached  me  from  the  kitchen,  the  door  of  which  she  had 
lefl  open. 

*'  111  never  believe  a  person  has  a  good  heart,  or 
deserves  to  be  called  a  Christian,  who  names  an  honest, 
respectable  girl,  who  tries  to  do  her  duty,  a  servant  I  *k. 
faithful  servant  I '  says  she ;  '  as  if  she  was  a  queen,  and 
meself  a  beggar ! '  " 

"  What  did  you  say  to  the  ungrateful  wretch  ?  "  asks  a 
listener,  indignantly. 

••  Nothing.  I  went  quietly  out  of  hearing,  reminded, 
for  the  hundredth  time,  of  Solomon's  warning, '  Take  no 
heed  unto  all  words  that  are  spoken,  lest  thou  hear  thy 
servant  curse  thee.'  I  recalled,  too,  the  saying  of  a 
mightier  than  the  Royal  Preacher :  '  Whosoever  will  be 
greatest  among  you,  let  him  be  your  servant' " 

"  I  thought  you  were  one  of  the  favored  few  who  had 
no  trouble  with  them,"  says  another  housekeeper,  sigh- 
ingly. "  There  is  real  comfort, — excuse  me,  my  dear 
Mrs.  Sterling — but  it  is  refreshing  to  'a  wearied  soul  to 
know  that  you  have  felt  some  of  our  tribulations.  It 
seems  to  me,  at  times,  that  there  is  no  other  affliction 
worthy  the  name  when  compared  with  what  we  endure 
from  the  *  Necessary  Evil.'  I  have  tried  all  sorts — ^the 
representatives  from  every  nation  under  heaven,  I  verily 
believe — and  they  are  all  alike  I  They  will  wear  me  into 
an  untimely  grave  yet." 

**  I  wouldn't  let  them,  my  dear  Martha,"  replies  Mrs. 
Sterling,  with  her  sunny  smile.    ''  K  evils,  they  are  surely 


ifter  all,  I  ima^ne  '  they '  are  a 
>f  roan  and  woroaukind — pretty 
ike  them.  The  truth  is,  there  is 
leouDciatioQ  of  any  class.  Yoll 
utor's  truisin,  'Human  nature, 
out  of  ten,  is  bumao  nature.' 
lences  under  which  a  majority  of 
ared — i^orance,  poverty,  Euper- 
)  ID  their  homes — my  wonder  is, 
of  eome,  but  that  so  many  are 
irly.  You  will  allow  that,  as  a 
uite  as  industrious  as  their  mis- 
iempers  almost  as  well-  And  we 
I  our  dealiogs  with  them ! " 
often  lecture,  but  she  has  some- 
jets  herself  in  her  subject 
in  our  management,  that  a  sense 
li  us  charity.  Do  we  understand, 
Oper  place  of  a  hired  '  help'  in 
)  disposition  of  Mrs.  Shoddy  to 
oulless  machines,  Mrs.  Kindly 
ughter  of  her  maid ;  indulges, 
her,  and  wonders,  by-and-by,  to 
lil's  thumb — her  husband  and 
irices  of  a  pampered  menial.  I 
i  valued  domestic,  '  I  could  not 
thout  anticipating  as  a  certainty 
nnounce,  'There  is  such  a  thing 
ong.'  The  crisis  comes,  then,  to 
iiit  of  desperation  she  frees  her 
^ail  packs  her  six  trunks,  having 
rice,  seven  years  before,  with  her 
newspaper,  shakes  the  dust  off 
hick  have  replaced  her  brogans. 


S62  COMMOir  SBMBE. 

against  the  heartless  tyrant  who  sits  crying,  in  her  own 
room  up-stairs,  over  thoughts  of  how  Abigail  has  been  so 
clean,  quick,  and  devoted  to  her  interests ;  how  she  has 
nursed  her  through  a  long  and  dangerous  illness,  and  bad 
the  charge  of  Emma  and  Bobby  from  their  birth.  She 
has  prepared  a  handsome  present  for  her  in  memory  of  all 
this,  and  is  hurt  more  than  by  anything  else  when  she 
learns  that  the  girl  has  taken  her  final  departure  without 
even  kissing  the  baby. 

*'It  is  not  strange  that  the  deceived  mistress  should, 
from  that  day,  write  down  Abigail  a  monster  of  ingrati- 
tude, and  forget  the  faithful  service  of  years  in  the  smart 
of  wounded  feeling ;  when  the  truth  is  that  she  did  the 
maid  more  injury  by  injudicious  petting,  than  the  latter 
eould  do  her  mistress  had  she  absconded  with  all  the 
plate  in  the  houde.  She  has,  as  might  have  been  expected, 
proved  Abigail's  unfitness  to  be  her  confidante  and  co- 
adviser  ;  but,  at  the  same  time,  she  has  filled  her  brain 
with  notions  of  her  superiority  to  her  fellow-servants,  her 
heart  with  burnings  for  the  higher  station  she  can  never 
occupy. 

"  I  speak  feelingly  upon  this  subject,"  continues  Mrs. 
Sterling,  with  a  laugh  ;  "for  I  was  once  led  into  this  very 
mistake  myself,  by  the  attractive  qualities  of  a  young 
woman  who  lived  with  me  nine  years  as  seamstress  and 
chambermaid.  She  was  so  even-tempered,  so  sensible,  in- 
dustrious, and  respectful,  that  she  gained  upon  the  esteem 
of  us  all.  One  day,  while  we  sat  together  at  work,  I  told 
her  of  some  family  changes  in  prospect,  prefacing  the 
communication  by  the  remark, '  I  want  to  speak  to  you  of 
something,  Eliza,'  which  you  must  not  mention  to  any  one 
else  at  present.  The  interests  of  an  employer  and  a  ser- 
vant should  be  the  same.' 

"  Then,  very  foolishly,  I  opened  up  my  mind  freely  ott  ' 


■SRVAITTS.  863 

the  subject  that  engaged  it.  She  answered  modestly,  but 
iotelligentlj,  entering  into  my  plans  with  such  cordial  in- 
terest and  pledges  of  co-operation,  that  I  went  to  prepare 
for  a  walk,  feeling  really  strengthened  and  cheered  by  the 
talk.  At  the  front  door  I  was  met  by  a  letter  requiring 
an  immediate  reply.  Returning  to  my  chamber  to  lay  oif 
my  hat  and  shawl,  I  heard  Eliza  talking  loudly  and  glee- 
fully in  the  adjoining  sewing-room,  with  the  cook,  whom 
she  must  have  called  up-stairs  through  the  speaking-tube. 
You  cannot  imagine,  nor  I  describe.,  my  sensations  at 
listening,  against  my  will,  to  an  exaggerated  account  of 
the  interview  which  had  just  taken  place.  Not  only  my 
language,  but  my  tones  were  mimicked  with  great  gusto 
and  much  laughter  by  my  late  confidante — the  phrase 
'  The  interests  of  the  employer  and  the  servant  should 
be  the  same '  occurring  again  and  again,  and  forming,  ap- 
parently, the  cream  of  the  joke.  I  was  very  angry.  But 
for  the  rule  adopted  early  in  my  married  life,  never  to 
reprove  a  servant  when  out  of  humor,  I  should  ini^tantly 
have  ordered  the  treacherous  creature — as  I  named  her — 
from  the  house.  I  sat  down  instead,  to  cool  off  and  to 
think.     With  reflection,  common  sense  rallied  to  my  aid. 

"*  The  girl  does  well  enough  in  her  place,  which  is  that 
of  a  hired  chambermaid  and  seamstress,'  said  this  mopitor, 
'  She  knew  her  position,  and  would  have  kept  it,  but  for 
your  folly  in  dragging  her  up  to  temporary  equality  with 
yourself.  You  made  yourself  ridiculous,  and  she  was 
shrewd  enough  to  see  it.  Take  the  lesson  to  heart ;  write 
it  out  in  full  for  future  guidance,  and  keep  your  own 
counsel.' 

"  Eliza  never  suspected  my  discovery.  She  remained 
with  me  until  her  marriage  a  year  afterward,  and  we  parted 
iiwn  gfiod  terms." 

I  have  quoted  from  my  friend  at  length,  because  I  honor 


364  COMMON  8E9B15. 

her  excellent  judgment  and  mature  experience,  and  be- 
cause I  agree  so  fully  with  her  touching  the  evil  of  so- 
called  confidential  servants.  The  principle  of  acknow- 
ledged favoritism  is  ruinous  to  domestic  comfort,  let  who 
may  be  the  object  thus  distinguished.  Rely  upon  it,  my 
dear  lady,  at  least  one  third  of  home-wrangles  and  social 
scandal  arises  from  this  cause.  Be  assured,  also,  that  if 
you  do  not  perceive  the  impropriety  of  lowering  yourself 
to  the  level  of  your  subordinates,  they  will,  and  gauge 
their  behaviour  accordingly.  The  connection  is  an  un- 
natural one,  and,  like  all  others  of  the  kind,  must  termi- 
nate disastrously  in  time.  Then  the  discarded  favorite, 
aggrieved  and  exasperated,  leaves  your  hoUse  to  tattle  in 
the  ears  of  some  other  indiscreet  mistress,  of  your  sayings 
and  doings.  Show  your  servant  that  you  respect  yourself 
and  her  too  truly  to  forget  what  is  due  to  both.  Be  kind, 
pleasant,  always  reasonable  and  attentive  to  her  needs, 
willing  to  hearken  to  and  meet  any  lawful  request.  Make 
her  comfortable,  and,  so  far  as  you  can,  happy. 

Excuse  one  more  quotation  from  Mrs.  Sterling,  whom, 
when  I  was  much  younger  than  I  am  now,  I  consulted 
with  regard  to  the  just  medium  between  familiarity  and 
austerity. 

"  Remember  they  are  human  beings,  and  treat  them  as 
such,''  she  said.  "  Not  that  you  are  likely  to  reap  a  large 
reward  in  their  gratitude,  but  because  it  is  right,  and  be- 
cause you  find  no  exceptions  to  the  practice  of  the  Golden 
Rule  laid  down  in  the  Bible.  Be  faithful  in  your  obedi- 
ence to  the  law  of  kindness.  With  the  return  tide  you 
have  nothing  to  do.  This  is  a  safe  and  straight  path.  I 
believe«it  to  be  also  the  smoothest.  You  will  be  better 
and  more  cheerfully  served  than  your  neighbor,  who,  re- 
cognizing in  every  hireling  a  natural  enemy,  is  always  on 
the  defensive." 


BERVAirrS. 

I  have  found  the  moRt  serious  obstacle  to  a  comfortable 
pursuance  of  her  safe  path,  to  lie  in  this  same  prejudice — 
rooted  by  centuries  of  misunderstandings  and  caste-wars 
— the  belief  of  necessary  antagonism  between  employers 
and  employed.  Mrs.  Sterling's  Eliza  only  expressed  the 
prevailing  sentiment  of  her  class,  when  she  ridiculed  her 
mistress'  proposition  that  their  interests  ought  to  be  iden- 
tical. I  have  failed  so  often  and  so  signally  in  the  en- 
deavor to  impress  the  merits  of  this  policy  upon  domestics, 
that  I  rarely  attempt  it  now.  There  is  always  a  suspicion 
— more  or  less  apparent — that  you  have  a  single  eye  to 
self-interest  in  all  your  regulations  and  counsels.  "  What 
does  she  hope  to  gain  ?  What  am  I  in  danger  of  losing  ?  " 
are  the  queries  that  invariably  present  themselves  to  the 
subordinate's  mind.  The  arguments  by  which  your 
plans  are  supported  are  thrown  away  upon  ignorant  and 
illogical  listeners — your  array  of  facts  totally  disbelieved. 
Your  auditor  does  not  say  this,  but  in  divers  and  in- 
genious ways  she  contrives  to  let  you  know  that  she  is  not 
so  silly  as  to  be  imposed  upon  by  the  specious  array  of 
evidence. 

For  how  much  of  this  are  mistresses  responsible  ?  Has 
this  creed  of  distrust  been  learned  by  experience  of  injus- 
tice or  exaction,  or  is  it  one  of  the  popular  prejudices, 
which  are  harder  to  overthrow  than  sound  and  well-estab- 
lished principle  ?  Of  one  thing  I  am  certain  :  Mistresses 
and  maids  would  more  speedily  come  to  a  right  under- 
standing of  oneness  of  interest  but  for  the  influence  ex- 
erted over  the  former  by  Mrs.  Jones,  Mrs.  Robinson,  and 
Mrs.  Brown,  who  don't  allow  this,  and  couldn't  think  of 
that,  and  never  heard  of  the  other  privilege  or  immunity 
being  granted  to  servants.  Before  they  would  yield  such 
a  point,  or  submit  to  one  syllable  of  dictation,  they  would 
do  all  their  own  work,  etc.,  etc.    Poor  Mrs.  Pliable,  listen- 


COMMON  BBNBE. 

ing  dumbly  and  meekly,  goes  home  with  a  low-spiriud 
seuse  of  her  own  pusillanimity  upon  her,  and  tries  to 
assert  her  authority  and  redeem  past  faults  by  a  sudden 
tightening  of  the  reins,  that  results  in  a  runaway  and 
general  sraash-up. 

Cannot  we  remember — you  and  I,  my  dear  reader — that 
we  may  sometimes  be  as  nearly  right  as  those  who  talk 
more  loudly  and  strongly  than  we  upon  domestic  economy, 
laying  down  rules  we  never  thought  of  suggesting;  split- 
ting into  ninths  a  hair  our  short-sighted  eyes  cannot  make 
out  when  whole,  and  annihilating  our  timid  objections 
with  a  lordly  ''/always  do  so,"  which  is  equal  to  a  decree 
of  infallibility?  Cannot  we  make  up  our  minds,  once  and 
for  all,  to  be  a  law  unto  ourselves  in  all  matters  pertaining 
to  our  households  ?  Mrs.  Jones'  rule  may  be  good  for  her ; 
Mrs.  Robinson's  better  than  any  other  in  her  particular 
case,  and  Mrs.  Brown's  best  of  all  for  one  in  her  peculiar 
circumstances ;  yet  any  one  or  all  of  them  be  unsuitable 
for  our  use. 

Avoid  talking  about  your  domestic  affairs  with  people 
whose  gossip  on  these  topics  is  incessant.  You  are  angry 
when  a  whiff  of  some  such  discussion  as  enlightened  Mrs. 
Sterling,  with  regard  to  her  mistake,  is  wailed  to  you 
through  the  dumb-waiter  or  register,  an  accident  that  will 
occur  while  the  tones  of  the  plaintiffs  are  loud  and  un- 
trained by  education  or  policy.  It  is  mean  and  unkind — 
traitorous,  in  fact,  you  say,  for  them  so  to  misrepresent 
and  revile  you — after  all  the  kindness  you  have  showed 
to  them,  too!  Bridget,  Cliloe,  or  Gretchen,  passing  the 
parlor-door  and  catching  the  sound  of  her  name  as 
roughly  handled,  may  have  her  own  sensations,  and  draw 
her  own  inferences — being  human  like  yourself.  It  is  tire- 
some and  vnlgar,  this  everlasting  exchange  of  experiences 
about  "  my  girl,'*  and  "  your  girl,"  and  everybody  else's 


'AKTB.  367 

iTomen  ceased,  in  this  respect, 
le  class  the^  censure,  and  put 
h  a  Htrong  will.  Order  your 
ht  aa  you  can  by  the  help  of 
m  on  high,  aad  let  Mesdamco 
D  look  to  the  ways  of  their 
us  energies  upoD  their  neigh* 
u  out. 

Jt  let  it  stand !) 
bousewives  act  upon  the  sup- 
cast  in  the  same  mould.     Be* 
rget  thatl),  the  probability  is, 
e  species. 

led  by  their  associates,  the 
»ay  her  yet  more  powerfully, 
ianiog  housewife  knows  what 
t  terrible  "Union"  upon  her 
eally  benefit  those  under  her 
ized  and  disgusted  at  the  ty- 
sponsible  body  over  the  best 

ma'am,  if  we  didn't  give  in 
epresented  how  senseless  and 
le  recommended  by  these  evil 
rl  in  the  town  would  speak  ta 

the  rest  It's  like  a  strike, 
i  holds  back." 

raged  fellow-laborer,  ima^ne 
trials,  your  doubts,  your  dis- 
[disagree  with  Mrs.  S-k-n-sl^u 

servants  to  be  the  greatest 
ler  to  the  belief  that— always 

and  the  drawbacks  I  have 
I  are  likely  to  make  good  aer- 


368  COMMON  BEVB1S* 

vants,  it  is  in  consequence  of  long  and  careful  study  and 
observation  of  the  practical  working  of  Mrs.  Sterling's 
rule.  Like  begets  like.  Pleasant  words  are  more  likely 
to  be  answered  by  pleasant  than  are  tart  or  hasty  ones. 
If  you  would  have  your  servants  respecstful  to  you,  be  re- 
spectful to  them.  The  best  way  to  teach  them  politeness 
is  by  example.  It  should  not  cost  you  an  effort  to  say, 
"  Thank  you,"  or  "  If  you  please."  The  habit  exerts  an 
unconscious  refining  influence  upon  them,  and  you  dignify 
instead  of  degrading  your  ladyhood  by  being  pitiful  and 
courteous  to  all.  If  you  can  only  maintain  your  position 
by  haughtiness  and  chilling  disregard  of  the  feelings  of 
inferiors,  your  rank  is  false,  or  you  unfit  to  hold  it 

To  begin,  then :  Be  mistress  of  yourself.  Amid  all 
your  temptations  to  angry  or  sarcastic  speech  (and  how 
many  and  how  strong  these  are,  you  and  I  know),  curb 
yourself  with  the  recollection  that  it  is  despicable,  no  less 
than  useless,  to  say  cutting  things  to  one  who  has  no  right 
to  retort  upon  you  in  kind. 

"  Ma',"  says  Miss  Aurelia  in  Miss  Sedgwick's  admirable 
story,  "Live  and  let  Live"" — "  how  can  you  let  your  help 
be  so  saucy  to  you  ?  " 

Master  Julius,  who  was  standing  by,  took  a  different 
view  of  the  matter. 

"  If  Ma'  doesn't  want  her  help  to  be  9arey  to  her/'  he 
said,  "  she  hadn't  ought  to  be  Barcy  to  them." 

Teach  your  children  the  like  forms  of  kindly  speech 
and  habits  of  consideration  for  the  comfort  and  happiness 
of  your  domestics,  checking  with  equal  promptness  undue 
freedom  and  the  arrogance  of  station.  It  is  as  graceful 
to  bend  as  it  is  mean  to  grovel. 

Learn  not  to  see  everything,  and,  so  soon  as  you  can, 
put  far  from  you  the  delusive  hope  that  anybody  else — 
unless  it  be  dear  old  John — will  ever  serve  you  as  well  as 


This  failure  U  attributable  to 
we  Bpoke  of  just  noiv.  She  is 
can  irink  at  trifling  blcmiehes 
There  is  one  text  which  has 
d  hundreds  of  times  on  such 
ion  into  Boiemnity,  and  briag- 

mark  iniquities,  O  Lord,  who 

in  be  gentle,  let  it  also  be  firm. 

is  yours,  and  that  you — not 
r  the  disposition  of  the  stores 
7- 

other  day,"  said  an  easy-tem- 
that  passed  under  my  window 
■ne  of  her  visilora. 

along  ? '  asked  the  guest. 
ow,'  was  the  reply.     '  I  was 

that  tiie  would  bother  me  a- 
chen  eo  <  nnptnnt  But  I  give 
m't  the  trivk  of  a  raal  lady, 
ice  then.  You've  got  to  stand 
thb  wurrld,  or  you'll  be  trod 

ig  away  words  to  reason  with 
a  mistress  might  show  that  in 
)or  would  such  a  principle  be 
ecretary  of  State  down  to  the 
r  ash-pan,  every  employ^  who 
oker,  to  whom  he  is  account- 
ich  his  work  is  done  and  his 
e  fact  that  she  is  an  ignorant, 
just  cause  of  exemption.  Yet 
I  point  tacitly  yielded,  and  the 
16* 


370  COMMOK  SBVeE. 

mistress  admitted  upon  sufferance  to  her  ovm  kitehen — ^the 
room  furnished  with  her  money,  and  in  which  she  hardlj 
dare  touch  or  look  at  the  articles  intended  for  the  con- 
sumption of  her  own  family  ? 

One  often  hears  such  remarks  as,  *'  It  isn't  every  girl 
who  will  stand  having  the  mistress  popping  in  and  out 
while  she  is  at  work."  When,  in  any  other  situation,  the 
very  fact  of  this  unwillingness  to  have  the  owner  of  the 
materials  used  in  that  work  present,  would  be  strong  pre- 
sumptive proof  of  negligence  or  dishonesty.  The  princi- 
ple is  pernicious  from  beginning  to  end,  and  should  not  be 
tolerated  for  an  instant. 

It  gives  me  pleasure  to  state  here,  that  I  know  nothing 
personally  of  this  curious  reversal  of  the  rights  of  em- 
ployer and  domestic.     I  am  inclined  to  believe,  if  one- 
half  I  hear  of  other  housewives'  trials  be  true,  that  I  have 
been  highly  favored  among  American  women.     My  au- 
thority in  the  kitchen,  as  in  other  parts  of  the  household, 
has  never  been  disputed — in  my  hearing  or  presence,  that 
is.     I  have  always  met  with  a  cheerful  reception  below- 
stairs  when  I  appeared  there  to  direct  or  share  the  labors 
of  my  cooks ;  have  found  them  willing  to  undertake  new 
dishes,  and  ready  to  learn  my  "  way,"  however  unlike  it 
might  be  to  their  own.     As  a  rule,  also, — to  which  the 
exceptions  have  been  few  and  very  far  between — ^those 
employed   by  me   have   been   cleanly,  industrious,  kind- 
hearted,  and  respectful ;  patient  under  inconveniences,  acd 
attentive   in   sickness.     I  should  not,  therefore,  do   my 
duty,  did  I    not  lift  my  voice  in  a  plea  for  charitable 
judgment,  just  and  generous  treatment  of  a  class  which, 
however   faulty,  have  much  to  do  and  to  endure.     Mrs. 
Bkinflint's  grocer *s  account  may  be  less  than  yours,  if  you 
adopt  this    policy — Mrs.  Sharp's   coal-cellar  be  better 
dusted,  and  the  paint  in  her  attic  scrubbed  oftanfir ;  but  I 


iTDiHifsa.  371 

you  will  be  the  most  comfortable 
Your  inacbinery  will  move  with 

ion.  Your  ecrvants  will  remaia 
better-tempered  while  they  stay, 

ppreciate  the  fact  of  a  commoD 
them  duties  you  are  resolved  to 

n  under  your  roof,  however  mer- 

brmance  of  those  devolving  upon 

I  Dot  add  to  the  real  miseries  of 
loyance  of  a  carelesa,  slothful,  or 
a  real  trouble.  Class  it  with 
B  yet  curable  as  well  aa  endura- 
a  noble,  beneficent  existence  in 
reatures  and  the  fear  of  God — a 
erceptible  disturbance  from  such 
bitterness  as  this.  It  is  only  the 
the  indolent  mis-tress  whose  peace 
on  such  casualties  as  a  breeze,  a 
vacancy  in  the  department  of  the 

afliction  is  sharpest,  that  brier- 
•ut  never  serious,  unless  the  blood 


DDINGS. 

ice  sake,  classed  among  pies  ail 
m(  in  a  pie-dish.  Many  of  these, 
ingd,  such  as  custards  of  various 
lud  orange  puddings.  The  read- 
1  finding  the  receipts  for  these,  if 
emark  in  miod. 


872  coimoH  Bairss. 

Baked  PuDDmas. 

Beat  your  eggs  very  light — acd,  if  y 
or  two,  whip  white  and  yolk  separately 
into  the  sugar  before  adding  the  whites 

Fruit,  rice,  corn-starch,  and  bread  ] 
Bteady,  moderate  oven  in  leaking.  C 
puddings  ahould  be  put  into  the  dish, 
oven,  the  instant  they  are  mixed,  and  b 
pudding,  unless  it  be  reused  with  yeast, 
to  stand  out  of  the  oven  after  the  ingt 
gether.  Give  one  final  hard  stir  jusi 
and  be  sure  the  mould  is  well  greased- 

Apple  MfiHiNOUE  Fddd 

1  pint  stewed  apples. 

3  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separate. 

)  cup  white  sugar,  and  one  teafpoo 

1  teaspoooAil  nutmeg  and  cinnama 

1  "  essence  bitter  almon 

gue.) 

Sweeten  and  spice,  and,  while  the  app 

etir  in  the  butter,  and,  a  little  at  a  time 

all  light,  pour  into  a  buttered  dish,  and 

Cover,  without  drawing  from  the  oven 

made  of  the  beaten  whites,  two  tablespo< 

and  the  bitter  almond   seasoning.     Spn 

quickly,  close  the  oven  again,  and  brow 

Eat  cold,  with  whit«  sugar  sifted  over 

around  cream  to  pour  over  it  instead  of 

Baked  Apple  Poddes 
6  large  firm  pippins  (grat 
3  tablespoon  fu  Is  butter. 


•llcB  separate. 

id  half  the  peel. 

.  cream,  Btir  in  the  yolks,  the 

7  the  whites.    Qrat«  nutmeg 

nicely  browned. 


nd  half  the  riod. 

isolved  in  a  little  vinegar. 

add  the  milk,  seasoning,  and 
9,  and  beat  in  the  apple,  then 
ell  mixed  in. 

V  pans  one  hour,  and  eat  hot, 
the  success  of  this  pudding 
Imost  as  much  upon  the  bak- 
I  half  done,  to  prevent  hard- 

DDIKO.    <{" 

ed,  and  sliced,  breaking  them 

limbs. 
3elted. 
a  separate. 

id  a  dozen  whole  cloves. 


874  CX>MMON  BfiNBK 

Soak  the  bread-crumbs  in  the  milk,  cream  the  batter 
and  sugar,  and  beat  into  this  the  yolks.  Next,  adding 
the  milk  and  soaked  bread,  stir  until  very  smooth  and 
light  Put  in  the  nutmeg  and  citron,  and  whip  in  the 
whites  lightly.  Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  in  your  sliced 
apple,  sprinkling  each  piece  well  with  sugar,  and  scatter- 
ing the  cloves  among  them.  Pour  the  custard  you  have 
prepared  over  them,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  top,  and  eat  cold. 

Brown  Betty.  >J< 

1  cup  bread-crumbs. 

2  cups  chopped  apples — ^tart. 
i  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoon ful  cinnamon. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  cut  into  small  bits. 

Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  a  layer  of  the  chopped 
apple  at  the  bottom ;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  a  few  bits  of 
butter,  and  cinnamon;  cover  with  bread-crumbs;  then 
more  apple.  Proceed  in  this  order  until  the  dish  is  full, 
'  having  a  layer  of  crumbs  at  top.  Cover  closely,  and 
steam  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven ;  then 
uncover  and  brown  quickly. 

Eat  warm  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  sweet  sauce. 

This  is  a  homely  but  very  good  pudding,  especially  for 
the  children's  table.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is 
baked. 

Apple  Batter  Pudding.  >I< 

1  pint  rich  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 
4  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

i         "  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 


PTTDDniOB.  375 

lea  carefully,  aad  range  them 
p  dish.  Beat  the  batter  very 
Unless  the  apples  are  very 
apples),  fill  the  centre  of  each 
D  hour,  and  eat  hot  with  sweet 

Pltth  Pdddcto. 
red  and  chopped- 


chopped. 

id  the  same  powdered  clo<res. 

id  the  same  of  brandy. 
i  sugar  very  light,  add  the  suet 
then  the  raisins,  well  dredged 
r,  and  when  this  ia  all  in,  the 
x&teD  very  stiff  Bake  in  two 
irate  oven,  an  hour  and  a  half  at 

ing  if  you  like. 

.piocA  Podding    •{• 

1-flavored  pippins — pared  and 


three  cups  of  lukewarm  water, 
warm  place  to  soak  five  or  six 
then.    Pack  your  appla  tn  ■ 


376  OOMMOX  SENSE. 

deep  dish,  adding  a  cup  of  lukewarm  water;  corer  closely 
and  steam  in  a  moderate  oven  until  soft  all  through, 
turning  them  as  they  cook  at  bottom.  If  the  dish  is  more 
than  a  quarter  full  of  liquid,  turn  some  of  it  out  before 
you  pour  the  soaked  tapioca  over  all.  Unless  your  ap- 
ples are  very  sweet  fill  the  centre  with  sugar  and  stick  a 
clove  in  each,  just  before  you  cover  with  the  tapioca.  In- 
deed, I  always  do  this.  It  softens  the  hard  acid  of  the 
fruit.  Bake,  after  the  tapioca  goes  in,  one  hour. 
Eat  warm,  with  sweet  hard  sauce. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings.  >{« 

1  quart  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lard — or  half  butter  is  better. 
2  cups  of  milk. 

H  teaspoonfuls  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 

Chop  the  shortening  into  the  flour  when  you  have 
sifted  this  twice  with  the  baking  powder,  and  wet  up 
quickly  and  very  lightly,  handling  as  little  as  is  possible 
and  yet  incorporate  ingredients  well — just  stiff  enough  to 
roll  into  a  paste  less  than  half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into 
squares,  and  lay  in  the  centre  of  each  a  juicy,  tart  apple, 
pared  and  cored ;  bring  the  corners  of  the  square  neatly 
together  and  pinch  them  slightly.  Lay  in  a  buttered 
baking-pan,  the  joined  edges  downward,  and  bake  to  a  fine 
brown.  When  done,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg;  set  back 
in  the  oven  to  glaze  for  two  or  three  minutes.  Sift  pow- 
dered sugar  over  them,  and  eat  hot,  with  rich,  sweet  sauce. 

I  greatly  prefer  the  above  simple  crust  for  all  kinds  of 
dumplings,  to  the  rich  paste  which  becomes  heavy  so  soon 
as  it  begins  to  cool.  It  is  also  more  quickly  nnd  easily 
made,  and  iar  more  wholesome  than  pastry. 


baked  fuddin06.  377 

Tapioca  Pudding.  *J< 

1  cup  tapioca. 

1  quart  milk. 

5  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  melted. 
2  "  sugar. 

Soak  the  tapioca,  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it,  two 
hours ;  drain  off  the  water,  if  it  be  not  all  absorbed ;  soak 
two  hours  longer  in  the  milk,  which  should  be  slightly 
warmed.  When  the  tapioca  is  quite  soft,  beat  the  sugar 
and  butter  together ;  add  the  yolks,  the  milk  and  tapioca, 
lastly  the  whites.  Stir  very  well,  and  bake  in  a  buttered 
dish.    Eat  warm  with  sweet  sauce. 

Tou  may  make  a  sago  pudding  in  the  same  way. 

C!orn-8tarch  Pudding.    ^ 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch. 

1  quart  milk. 

4  eggs — ^whites  and  yolks  separate, 

i  cup  sugar. 

Nutm^  and  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Dissolve  the  corn-starch  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  hav- 
ing heated  the  rest  of  the  milk  to  boiling,  stir  this  in  and 
boil  three  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Remove  from 
the  fire,  and  while  still  very  hot,  put  in  the  butter.  Set 
away  until  cold ;  beat  the  eggs  very  light — the  sugar  and 
seasoning  with  them,  and  stir  into  the  corn-starch,  beating 
thoroughly  to  a  smooth  custard.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
dish,  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Eat  cold,  with  powdered 
sugar  sifted  over  it. 


878  COMMON  SENSE. 

C!oBN-StABCH  MfiBINOUE.  ^ 

5  eggs. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

}  cup  sugar. 

4  teaspoonfuls  corn-starch. 

i  cup  fruit-jelly  or  janL 

Heat  the  milk  to  hoiling,  and  stir  in  the  corn-starch, 
which  has  previously  been  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while.  Remove  from 
the  fire,  and  while  still  hot,  add  gradually  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  beaten  up  with  the  sugar  and  seasoned  with  vanilla» 
lemon,  or  bitter  almond.  Pour  this  into  a  buttered  pud- 
ding-dish and  bake  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  custard 
begins  to  "  set."  Without  withdrawing  it  ftirther  than 
the  door  of  the  oven,  spread  lightly  and  quickly  upon  this 
a  meringue  of  the  whites  whipped  up  stiff  with  a  half-cup 
jelly — added  gradually.  Use  crab-apple  jelly,  if  bitter 
almond  has  been  put  into  the  custard  ;  currant,  for  vanilla; 
strawberry  or  other  sweet  conserve,  if  you  season  the  cus- 
tard with  lemon.  Bake,  covered,  for  five  minutes.  Then 
remove  the  lid,  and  brown  the  m6ringue  very  slightly. 

Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  siftied  thickly  over  the 
top. 

Arrow-boot  Puddino 

Is  made  according  to  either  of  the  foregoing  receipts, 
substituting  arrow-root  for  corn-starch.  Farina  pudding 
also. 

Bread  Pudding.  >J< 

1  quart  of  milk. 

2  cups  of  fine  bread  crumbe — a/toayt  stale  and  dry. 
4eggs. 


BAEED  PUDDHTOa.  o79 

Tula  melted  butter. 

aate. 

1  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

very  light,  and  having  soaked  the  bread- 
le  milk,  Btir  these  together ;  then  the  but- 
:,  with  the  soda ;  lastly  the  nhites.  Bake 
ind  eat  hot  with  pudding-flauce. 
ixed  and  baked,  is  quite  a  different  dish 
>nal  and  much-despised  bread- pudding 
ceepers  and  boarding-house  landladies. 
1  £nglish  Josh.  Billings,  "  nothing  can 
IS  than  a  boarding-house  hread-pudding." 
.putting  all  the  sugar  into  the  sauce, 
:,  and  you  will  cease  to  sneer. 
1  this  pudding,  if  you  like,  in  a  floured 

mould. 

SUIT  BBEA.D  Pudding.  »{• 


ils  melted  butter. 

(heaping)  sugar, 
leeded  and  chopped. 
,  well  washed  and  picked  over. 
bred  citron,  and  1  teaspoonful  soda,  dis- 
ot  water, 
ine  bread-crumbs,  from  a  stale  loaf. 

s  light  with  the  sugar,  add  the  bread- 
y  have  been  well  soaked  in  the  milk,  and 
Next  put  in  the  fruit,  well  dredged  with 
nd  finally  the  whites,  whipped  to  a  stiff 


^ 


880  OOMICOK  BfiMBS. 

This  will  require  longer  and  steadier  baking  than  if  the 
frait  were  not  in.  Cover  it  if  it  threatens  to  harden  too 
soon  on  top.  Send  to  table  hot  in  the  dish  in  which  it 
was  baked,  or  turn  out  very  carefully  upon  a  hot  plate. 
Eat  warm,  with  pudding^sauce. 

Bread-akd-Bxttteb  Puddinq. 

4  eggs. 

3  cups  milk. 

i  cup  sugar. 

Vanilla  or  other  extract. 

Nutmeg  to  taste. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Gut  thin  slices  of  bread  (stale),  spread  thickly  with 
butter,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Fit  them  neatly  and 
closely  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish  until  it  is  half  full. 
Lay  a  small,  heavy  plate  upon  them  to  prevent  them  from 
floating,  and  saturate  them  gradually  with  a  hot  custard 
made  of  the  milk,  heated  almost  to  boiling,  then  taken 
from  the  fire,  and  the  beaten  eggs  and  sugar  stirred  in 
with  the  seasoning.  Let  the  bread  soak  in  this  fifteen 
minutes  or  so,  adding  by  degrees  all  the  custard.  Just 
before  you  put  the  pudding  in  the  oven,  take  up' the  plate 
gently.  If  the  bread  still  rise  to  the  top,  keep  down 
with  a  silver  fork  or  spoon,  laid  upon  it  from  the  side  of 
the  dish,  until  the  custard  thickens,  when  slip  it  out.  Eat 
cold. 

Bread-axd-marmalade  Pudding  >{< 

Is  made  precisely  as  above,  except  that  each  slice  is 
spread  with  marmalade  or  jam  besides  the  butter. 
Either  of  these  puddings  is  good  boiled. 


BASED  PnDDISaB.  381 

Alice's  Pcddino.  >J< 
1  quart  of  milk. 

1  cup  very  fine  diy  bread-crumbs, 
i    "    strawberry  or  other  sweet  jam. 
1    *'    sugar. 

Butter  a  puddiug-dish ;  sprmkle  the  bottom  with  bread- 
crumbs; pour  over  these  half  a  cup  jam,  and  cover  this 
well  with  the  rest  of  the  crumbs,  wet  with  a  very  little 
milk.  Heat  the  quart  of  milk  until  near  boiling,  take  it 
from  the  fire  and  add,  gradually,  the  beaten  yolks  and 
sugar,  stirring  in  the  beaten  whites  lightly  at  the  last. 
Heat  this  by  degrees,  stirring  constantly  until  it  begins  to 
thicken  ;  put  it,  spoonful  by  spoonful,  upon  the  layer  of 
bread-crumbs,  taking  care  not  to  disturb  these,  and  when 
all  is  in,  bake  until  well  "set"  and  very  slightly  browned. 

Eat  cold-     Cream  is  a  delidous  accompaniment  to  it. 

The  Queen  of  PuDPuroa.  ^ 

W  cup  white  sugar. 

2  cups  fine  dry  bread-crumbs. 

5e^8. 

1  tablespoonfiil  of  butter. 

Vanilla,  rose-water,  or  lemon  seasoning. 

1  quart  fresh  rich  milk,  and  one  half  cup  jelly  or  jam. 

Rub  the  butter  into  a  cup  of  sugar ;  beat  the  yolks 
very  light,  and  stir  these  together  to  a  cream.  The  bread- 
crumbs, soaked  in  milk,  come  next,  then  the  seasoning. 
Bake  this  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish — a  large  one  and 
but  two-thirda  full — until  the  custard  is  "set,"  Draw  to 
the  mouth  of  the  oven,  spread  over  with  jam  or  other 
nice  fruit^onserre.    Cover  this  with  a  meringue  made  of 


382  COMMON  8BS8B. 

the  whipped  whites  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Shut  the 
oven  and  bake  until  the  meringue  begins  to  color. 

Eat  cold,  with  cream. 

You  may,  in  strawberry  season,  substitute  the  fresh 
fruit  for  preserves.     It  is  then  truly  delightful. 

Cracker  Pudding.  ^ 
1  quart  milk. 

1  cup  powdered  cracker. 
6  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

i  teaspoonful  soda — dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Heat  the  milk  slightly,  and  pouring  it  over  the  cracker, 
let  them  stand  together  fifteen  minutes.  Stir  into  this 
first  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  butter  and  soda;  beat  all 
smooth  and  add  the  whipped  whites. 

Eat  hot,  with  pudding  sauce. 

Dorchester  Cracker  Plum  Pudding. 
2  quarts  milk. 

6  Boston  crackers — split  and  buttered. 
8  eggs — beaten  very  light. 

2  cnps  sugar.    Nutmeg,  cloves,  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  lb.  rabins,  seeded  and  cut  in  two. 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  eggs,  and  sugar,  seasoned 
with  the  spices,  by  heating  the  milk  almost  to  boiling,  then 
taking  it  from  the  fire  and  adding  gradually  the  yolks, 
8ugar,  seasoning,  and  whites.  Do  not  boil  it  again.  Butter 
a  pudding-dish ;  put  a  layer  of  crackers  in  the  bottom, 
moistening  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  hot  custard.  On 
thb  lay  some  of  the  raisins — a  thick  stratum ;  cover  with 
crackers — ^the  buttered  side  downward ;  moisten  with  the 
custard,  and  proceed  in  this  order  until  your  crackers  and 


BASED  PUDDtKCe.  883 

fruit  are  used  up.  Pour  in  custard  until  only  the  top  of 
the  upper  layer  is  visible,  but  not  enough  to  float  them ; 
cover  closely  and  set  in  the  cellar  over  night  In  the 
morning  add  the  rest  of  the  custard,  at  intervals  of  five  or 
six  minutes  between  the  cupfuls. 

Bake  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cover  with  paper 
if  it  should  seem  likely  to  harden  too  &st. 

Eat  hot,  with  sauce. 

Cracker  Sdet  Pudding.  >i< 

k  lb.  beef  Buet,  freed  from  strings,  and  powdered. 

1  cup  fine  cracker-crumbs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

4  eggs. 

3  cups  milk. 
Pinch  of  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar ;  add  to  these  the  milk 
in  which  the  cracker  has  been  soaked  for  half  an  hour; 
work  into  a  smooth  paste  before  putting  in  the  suet  and 
soda.  Whip  the  whites  in  last,  and  bake  nearly,  if  not 
quite  an  hour.  Cover,  should  the  crust  form  too  rapidly- 
Eat  hot,  with  wine  sauce. 

You  may  also  steam  or  boil  this  pudding. 

Fruit  Cracker  Pudding. 

1  cup  powdered  cracker  soaked  in  one  pint  of  milk. 
i  lb.  beef  suet,  cleared  from  strings  and  powdered. 
i  "  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  two. 
i  ^*  currants,  washed  and  dried. 
3  oz.  almonds. 

5  eggs. 

i  cup  sugar. 


884  OOMICOV  8ENBB. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  eame  of  cinnamon.     Boee- 
water  to  taste. 

Blanch  the  almonds  and  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  into 
thin  shavings.  Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar  until  light 
and  thick ;  mix  in  the  cracker  and  milk ;  the  suet  and  the 
fruit  well  dredged ;  the  spice  and  rose  water ;  then  the 
whipped  whites,  finally  the  almonds. 

Bake  in  a  buttered  mould  one  hour  and  a  half.  Turn 
out  and  eat  with  wine  sauce. 

Or. 

Boil  in  a  well-buttered  mould.  In  this  case,  blanch,  but 
do  not  cut  the  almonds,  and  do  not  stone  the  raisins.  But- 
ter the  mould  so  thickly  that  you  can  stick  the  almonds  to 
the  sides  in  regular  rows,  alternately  with  rows  of  whole 
raisins  Put  in  the  mixture  gently,  not  to  disturb  these ; 
cover  the  mould  and  boil  or  steam  three  hours.  Treated 
in  this  way,  it  makes  a  pretty-looking  pudding.  It  is 
palatable  in  any  shape. 

Cracker  akd  Jam  PuDDiira. 

3  eggs. 

h  cup  cracker-crumbs 

i  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  teacup  milk. 

\  lemon— juice  and  grated  rind. 

8  tablespoonfuls  jam. 

Soak  the  cracker  in  the  milk ;  rub  the  butter  and  sugar 
together,  adding  the  lemon,  and  beating  to  a  cream ;  then 
stir  in  the  beaten  yolks ;  next  the  cracker  and  milk ;  lastly, 
the  whites.    Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  the  jam,  which 


PITDDIHOfl.  886 

le  bottom.    Fill  up  with  the 
If  an  hour. 
id  over  the  top. 

NO  (PiitnO  "h 


>f  an  ^ — melted. 

Damon  to  taste- 

ce,  and  Boak  in  oae  pint  of  the 

the  restof  themilk,  the  sugar, 

,e  two  hours,  and  eat  cold. 

lOCA   PUDDIHO.    •J' 

«. 

pioca. 

jar. 

uilk. 

n  to  taste. 

tup  of  the  milk  three  hours ; 

era,  andsoak  in  another  cup  of 

tapioca.    Sweeten  the  remain- 

the  iugredients  together,  and 

en.    Eat  cold. 

.  WITH   EOGB.   "i" 


,  seeded  and  cut  in  tw& 


886  OOMMON  SEKBB. 

Soak  the  rice  in  a  pint  of  the  milk  an  hour,  then  set  the 
saucepan  containing  it  where  it  will  slowly  heat  to  a  boiL 
Boil  five  minutes ;  remove  and  let  it  cool.  Beat  the  jolks, 
add  the  sugar  and  butter,  the  rice  and  the  milk  in  which 
it  was  cooked,  with  the  pint  of  unboiled ;  the  beaten 
whites,  and  finally  the  raisins.  Grate  nutmeg  on  the  top, 
and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  the  custard 
is  well  set  and  of  a  light  brown.    Eat  cold. 

Rice-Flour   Puddikq. 
2  quarts  of  milk. 
}  lb.  rice  flour. 
1  cup  sugar. 
6  eggs. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  small  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  rose-water. 

1  lemon — ^juice  of  the  whole,  and  half  the  grated  rind. 

Heat  the  milk  to  a  boil,  and  stir  in  the  rice-flour  wet 
to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk ;  boil  until  well 
thickened,  stirring  all  the  time.  Take  from  the  fire,  and 
while  ^till  hot  stir  in  the  butter,  the  yolks  beaten  light 
with  the  sugar,  the  lemon,  nutmeg,  and  the  whites  of  three 
eggs.  Mix  well,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour.  Just  before  you  take  it  up,  draw  to  the 
mouth  of  the  oven  and  cover  with  a  meringue  of  the  re- 
maining whites,  beaten  stifi*  with  two  tablespoonfuls  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  flavored  with  vanilla  or  rose-water. 
Bake  until  the  meringue  begins  to  brown.  Sift  sugar  on 
the  top  and  eat  cold. 

Batter  Pudding.  >J< 

1  pint  of  milk. 

4  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 


BAKED  PUDDINGS.  387 

2  even  cups  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  salt 
1  pinch  of  soda. 

Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Serve  in  the  pudding- dish  as  soon  as  it  is  drawn  from  the 
oven,  and  eat  with  rich  sauce. 

Or 

Tou  may  boil  it  in  a  buttered  mould  or  floured  bag,  flour- 
ing it  very  thickly.  Boil  two  hours,  taking  care  the  boil- 
ing does  not  cease  for  a  moment  until  the  pudding  is  done. 

Batteb  Pudding  (No.  2.) 

1  quart  milk. 

10  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

7  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

\  "  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  "  cream-tartar,  sifted  into  the  flour. 

Wet  the  flour  gradually  with  the  milk  to  a  very  smooth 
paste ;  next  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  salt  and  soda, 
lastly  the  whites,  whipped  to  a  stifl*  froth.  Bake  in  a  but* 
tered  dish  for  an  hour,  and  serve  at  once.  Eat  hot,  with 
sauce. 

If  you  boil  it,  leave  plenty  of  room  to  swell  in  the  bag, 
and  boil  two  hours. 

Cottage  Pudding.  >J< 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonfiil  of  butter. 

2eggs. 

1  OQp  sweet  miUL 


888  ooMMoir  bense. 

3  cups  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  tolerably  stiff  bat- 
ter. 

1  rounded  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Pow- 
der. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  beat  in  the  yolksy 
then  the  milk  and  baking  powder,  the  salt,  and  the  beaten 
whites,  alternately  with  the  flour.  Bake  in  a  buttered 
mould ;  turn  out  upon  a  dish ;  cut  in  slices,  and  eat  with 
liquid  sauce. 

This  is  a  simple  but  very  nice  pudding. 

German  Puffs.  >{« 

3  cups  flour. 
8  *•  milk. 
3  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very 

Jight. 
3  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter. 
1  saltspoonftd  salt. 

Pour  in  nine  well-buttered  cups  of  same  sise  as  that 
uned  for  measuring,  and  bake  to  a  fine  brown.  Eat  a* 
soon  as  done,  with  sauce. 

Cl3F  PUDDOGS. 

4  eggs. 

The  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sugar  and  in  flour. 
Half  their  weight  in  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

i  teaspoonfnl  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Rub  the  sugar  and  butter  together;  beat  the  yolks 
light,  and  add  then  the  milk  and  soda ;  lastly  the  flour 
and  beaten  whites  alternately.    Fill  six  small  cups,  well 


□CDiKoe  389 

iuutce,  or  until  a  nice  brown. 


Btarch. 

th  and  rind  of  one. 


and  stir  in  the  corn-starch, 
cold  waler.  Boil  five  min- 
'bile  hot,  mix  in  the  butter, 
^t  the  yolks  light,  and  add 
lughly  befo"^  putting  in  the 
Beat  this  to  a  stiff  cream, 
m-fltarcb  milk,  when  the  lat- 
put  in  a  buttered  dish,  and 


!*oi>DDra  (very  nice.) 


«  and  half  the  rind,  grated. 

: ;  add  the  beaten  jolks,  with 
to  a  cream,  also  the  lemon. 
itil  firm  and  slightly  brown. 
I  and  cover  with  a  meringue 
oth  with  three  tablespoonfttli 


390  OOMMON  8£KS£. 

of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  little  lemon-juice.    Brown  very 
slightly ;  sift  powdered  sugar  over  it,  and  eat  cold. 
You  may  make  an  orange  pudding  in  the  same  way. 

CoooANUT  Pudding. 

i  lb.  grated  oocoanut 

i  cup  stale  sponge  cake,  crumbed  fine. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  large  cup  rich  milk — cream,  if  you  can  get  it. 
6  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla,  or  rose-water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  add  the  beaten  yolks. 
When  these  are  well  mixed,  put  in  the  cocoanut ;  stir  well 
before  adding  the  milk,  cake-crumbs,  flavoring ;  and  lastly, 
the  whites  of  three  eggs.  Whip  the  other  whites  stiff 
with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar ;  flavor  with 
vanilla,  and  just  before  taking  the  pudding  from  the  oven, 
spread  this  meringue  over  the  top,  and  close  the  oven 
until  the  icing  is  slightly  browned. 

Bake  in  all  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Orange  Marmalade  Pudding.  >{« 

1  cup  fine  bread-crumbs. 
i    **    sugar. 

1  "    milk  or  cream. 
4  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  butter. 

1  cup  orange  or  other  sweet  marmalade. 

Bub  the  butter 'and  sugar  together;  add  the  yolks  well 
beaten,  the  milk,  bread-crumbs,  and  the  whites  whipped 
to  a  froth.  Put  a  layer  of  this  in  the  bottom  of  a  well- 
buttered  mould,  spread  thickly  with  some  pretty  stiff  ma]> 


rvBDivoe. 


ben  another  la^er  of  the  mix- 
iild  ia  full,  having  the  cuatard 
moderate  oven  about  an  hour, 
a  dish  and  serve,  with  sweet* 


Pdddiso.  »{< 

:it  into  inch  lengths. 


rated  peeL 


half  the  milk  until  tender, 
ter,  the  yolks,  well  beaten  up 
od  lastly  the  whipped  whites, 
bout  half  an  hour,  or  until 


LI  POSDIKO 

be  foregoing  receipt. 

UNO, — {Veryfine.)  ij* 
)3  soaked  in  milk. 


imall  tumbler  of  Sherry  wine, 
bread-crumbs. 


;ar  together;  put  the  beaten 


392  GOBOCON  SBN8E. 

yolks  in  next ;  then  the  soaked  bread-cnimhs,  the  lemon, 
juice,  and  rind,  and  beat  to  a  smooth,  light  paste  before 
adding  the  whites.  Butter  your  mould  very  well,  and  put 
in  the  bottom  a  light  layer  of  dry  bread-crumbs ;  upon 
this  one  of  macaroons,  laid  evenly  and  closely  together. 
Wet  this  with  wine,  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  the  mix- 
ture ;  then  with  slices  of  Fponge-cake,  spread  thickly  with 
jelly  or  jam ;  next  macaroons,  wet  with  wine,  more  cus< 
tard,  sponge-cake,  and  jam,  and  so  on  until  the  mould  b 
full,  putting  a  layer  of  the  mixture  at  the  top.  Coyer 
closely,  and  steam  in  the  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour ; 
then  remove  the  cover  to  brown  the  top.  Turn  out  care- 
fully into  a  dish,  and  pour  over  it  a  sauce  made  of 
currant  jelly  warmed,  and  beaten  up  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  melted  butter  and  a  glass  of  pale  Sherry. 

A  plain  round  mould  is  best  for  the  pudding,  as  much 
of  its  comeliness  depends  upon  the  manner  in  which  the 
cake  and  macaroons  are  fitted  in. 

It  is  a  pretty  and  good  pudding,  and  will  well  repay 
the  trifling  trouble  and  care  required  to  manage  it  pro- 
perly. 

It  is  also  nice  boiled  in  a  buttered  mould. 


Rhubarb  Pudding. 

Prepare  the  stalks  as  for  pies ;  cover  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  pudding-dish  with  slices  of  bread  and  butter; 
cover  with  the  rhubarb  cut  into  short  pieces ;  sprinkle 
abundantly  with  sugar;  then  put  on  another  layer  of 
bread  and  butter,  and  so  on  until  your  dish  is  full.  Cover 
and  steam,  while  baking,  for  half  an  hour.  Remove  the 
lid  and  bake  ten  minutes,  or  until  browned. 

Eat  with  hot  sauce. 


r 


BAKED  PUDDINQS.  39S 

Gooseberry  Pudding.  *i* 

1  pint  ripe  or  Dearly  ripe  gooseberries. 

6  or  8  slices  toasted  stale  bread. 

1  cup  milk. 

}   "     sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted. 

Stew  the  gooseberries  ten  minutes — very  slowly,  not  to 
break  them.  Cut  your  slices  of  bread  to  fit  your  pudding- 
dish,  and  toast  to  a  light  brown  on  both  sides.  (Cut  off 
all  the  crust  before  toasting.)  Dip  each  slice,  while  hot, 
in  milk,  and  spread  with  the  melted  butter.  Cover  the 
bottom  of  the  dish  with  them  ;  put  next  a  layer  of  the 
gooseberries,  sprinkled  thickly  with  sugar ;  more  toast, 
more  berries,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Cover 
closely  and  steam  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  or  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Turn  out  upon  a  hot  dish  and  pour  over  it 
a  good  pudding-sauce. 

This  is  considered  a  wholesome  breakfast  dish,  and  is 
certainly  good.  In  this  case  omit  the  sauce,  sift  powdered 
sugar  over  the  top,  and  eat  with  the  same. 

Newark  Pudding. 

1  cup  fine  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  a  pint  of  the  milk. 

1  quart  of  milk. 
5  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  rice-flour. 

i  lb.  raisins  seeded,  cut  in  tw$  and  dredged  with  flour. 
Vanilla  or  bitter  almond  extract 
2  tablespoon^ls  melted  butter,  and  a  half-teaspoonful 
soda. 

Beat  the  yolks  light;  add  the  soaked  bread-crumbs  and 
milk;  stir  to  a  smooth  batter,  put  in  the  rice-flour,  wet  up 

17* 


894  oovMOM'  sum. 

first  with  cold  milk ;  the  reserved  pint  of  milk,  the  season- 
ing,  butter,  the  fruit,  lastly  the  whites  whipped  stiff.  Bake 
an  hour  in  a  buttered  mould;  turn  out  and  pour  sauce 
over  it,  serving  hard  sauce  also  with  it. 

Or, 

You  mar  boil  the  mixture  two  hours  in  a  floored  cloth  or 
buttered  mould. 

Baked  Plum  PuDDnra. 

1 J  lb.  of  flour. 

1  lb.  raisins  seeded,  cut  in  two,  and  dredged  with  flour. 

}  lb.  suet,  freed  from  strings  and  powdered. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  oz.  citron,  shred  fine. 

^  eggs— whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
Nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and  cloves — one  teaspoonfiil  each. 
Milk  to  make  a  thick  batter  of  the  flour.   Begin  with 
two  cups,  and  add  more  if  necessary. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together ;  add  the  suet  and 
spice,  then  the  flour,  moistening  the  mixture  gradually 
with  milk  until  you  can  move  the  spoon  in  it.  Dredge 
the  iruit  and  put  in  by  degrees ;  finally,  stir  in  the  beaten 
whites.  Beat  all  very  hard  and  long  before  baking  in  a 
buttered  mould.  It  will  require  at  lead  an  hour  and  a 
half  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Turn  out,  and  eat  with  rich  sweet  sauce. 

Belle's  Dumplings. 

1  quart  prepared  flour. 

2h  tablespoonfuls  lard  and  butter  mixed. 

2  cups  of  milk,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Roll  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  obl<Hig 


hs  oornen ;  put  •  gre^t  apocnihl  dam- 
r  tart  preserTB  id  the  middle  and  roll 
Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  bnuh 
g  while  hot,  set  back  in  the  oven  tUrea 

od^  or  wine  Bauee, 

Or, 

Il-pudding  of  it  by  rolling  out  the  paste 
t,  spreading  thickly  with  the  preserves, 
le  would  a  travelling-shawl  to  be  put 
ig  the  ends  t«^etber  that  the  juice  may 
>iling  in  a  floured  cloth  fitted  to  the 
-poley."  BoU  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Boiled  Puddingb. 
Idinge  in  a  bowl,  a  mould,  or  a  cloth, 
lave  a  closely -fitting  top,  and  be  but- 
I  all — before  the  batter  or  dough  is  put 
are  usually  made  with  hasps  or  other 
:  of  this,  you  had  better  tie  down  the 
mce  boiled  a  pudding  in  a  tin  paU,  the 
le  more  secure  by  fitting  it  over  a  cloth 
e,  lest  the  pudding  should  stick.  The 
ed  admirably,  and  I  commend  the  sug* 
}  find,  after  the  pudding  is  mixed,  that 
or  the  bowl  that  did  duty  as  a  substi- 
:n,  and  nothing  said  to  "the  mtstress" 
iBe  a  bowl,  butter  it,  and  tie  a  floured 
be  top.  If  a  cloth,  have  it  clean  and 
junUfiilly  on  the  inside.  In  all,  leave 
)resd.  rice,  and  cracker  puddings  to 
Qg  very  tightly  about  the  mouUi  of  the 


fM  ooxxov  fisms.' 

bag,  whicb  must  be  made  with  felled  seams  at  sides  and 
bottom,  tbe  better  to  exclude  the  water. 

The  water  must  be  boiling  when  the  pudding  goes  in, 
and  not  stop  boiling  for  one  instant  until  it  is  done.  If  it 
is  in  a  bag,  this  must  be  turned  several  times,  under  footer, 
to  prevent  sticking  or  scorching  to  the  sides  of  the  pot. 
The  bag  must  also  be  entirely  covered,  while  the  water 
should  not  quite  reach  to  the  top  of  a  mould.  If  you  use 
a  basin,  dip  the  cloth  in  boiling  water  before  dredging  with 
flour  on  the  inside. 

When  the  time  is  up,  take  mould,  basin,  or  cloth  from 
the  boiling  pot,  and  plunge  imtantly  into  cold  water;  then 
turn  out  without  the  loss  of  a  second.  This  will  prevent 
sticking,  and  leave  a  clearer  impression  of  the  mould  upon 
the  contents. 

Boiled  puddings  should  be  served  as  soon  as  they  are 
done,  as  they  soon  become  heavy. 

Many  of  the  baked  puddings  I  hav^  described  are  quite 
as  good  boiled.  As  a  safe  rule,  double  the  time  of  baking 
if  you  boil. 

Berry  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  saltspoonful  salt 

1  BGoni  teaspoonful  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder,  sifted 
through  a  cup  of  flour,  and  added  to  enough  flour  to 
make  a  thick  batter. 

1  pint  blackberries,  raspberries,  currants,  or  huckle- 
berries, well  dredged  with  flour — stirred  in  at  the  last 


HUGKLEBERBT  PUDDING. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  quart  flour— or  enough  for  thick  batter. 


BOILED  PUDDHrOS.  387 

1  gill  baker'fl  yeast 

1  saltspoonful  salt 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Nearly  a  quart  of  berries — well  dredged  with  flour. 

Make  a  batter  of  eggs,  milk,  flour,  yeast,  salt,  and  soda, 
and  set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  about  four  hours.  When 
you  are  ready  to  boil  it,  stir  in  the  dredged  fruit  quickly 
and  lightly.  Boil  in  a  buttered  mould  or  a  floured  doth 
for  two  hours. 

This  will  be  found  lighter  and  more  wholesome  than 
boiled  pastry. 

Eat  hot  with  sweet  sauce. 

Fruit  Valise  Pudding.  >J< 

1  quart  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  lard,  and  same  of  butter. 
1  rounded  teaspoonful  of  CieveUnd's  Baking  Pow- 
der, sifted  through  the  flour. 

1  saltspoonful  salt 

2  cups  milk,  or  enough  to  make  the  flour  into  soft 
dough. 

1  quart  berries,  chopped  apples,  sliced  peaches,  or 
other  fruit;  jam,  preserves,  canned  fruit,  or  mar- 
malade may  be  substituted  for  the  berries. 

Roll  out  the  crust  less  than  half  an  inch  thick  —  indeed, 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  will  do — into  an  oblong  sheet  Cover 
thickly  with  the  fruit  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Begin  at 
one  end  and  roll  it  up  closelv,  the  fruit  inside.  In  put- 
ting this  in,  leave  a  narrow  margin  at  the  other  end  of 
the  roll,  which  should  be  folded  down  closely  like  the  flap 
of  a  pockelrbook.  Pinch  the  ends  of  the  folded  roll  to- 
gether, to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  fruit,  and  baste  up  in 


398  COMMON  sEms. 

a  bag,  the  same  size  and  shape  as  the  "  valise."  Flour 
the  bag  well  before  putting  iu  the  pudding,  having  pre- 
viously dipped  it — the  cloth — into  hot  water,  and  wring  it 
out 

Boil  an  hour  and  a  half.  Serve  hot  with  sauce,  and 
cut  crosswise  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick. 

Boiled  Apple  Dumplings.  (No.  1.)  >J« 
Make  a  paste  according  to  the  above  receipt ;  cut  in 
squares,  and  put  in  the  centre  of  each  an  apple,  pared  and 
cored.  Bring  the  corners  together;  enclose  each  dump- 
ling in  a  small  square  cloth,  tied  up  bag-wise,  leaving 
room  to  swell.  Each  cloth  should  be  dipped  in  hot  water, 
wrung  out  and  floured  on  the  inside  before  the  apple  is 
put  in. 
Boil  one  hour. 

Apple  Dumplings.  (No.  2.)  >J< 
1  quart  flour. 
\  lb.  suet. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

}  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
1  "  cream-tartar  sifted  in  the  flour. 

Cold  water  enough  to  make  into  a  tolerably  stiff  paste. 

Boll  out,  cut  into  squares,  put  in  the  middle  of  each  a 
fine,  juicy  apple,  pared  and  cored.  Fill  the  hole  left  by 
the  core  with  marmalade,  or  with  sugar  wet  with  lemon- 
juice.  Stick  a  clove  in  the  sugar.  Close  the  paste, 
tie  up  in  the  cloths,  when  you  have  wet  them  with  hot 
water  and  floured  them,  and  boil  one  hour. 

A  pleasing  idea  for  dumpling  cloths  is  to  crochet  them 
in  a  close  stitch  with  stout  tidy  cotton.  They  are  easily 
done,  wash  and  wear  well,  and  leave  a  very  pretty  pattern 
upon  the  paste  when  they  are  opened.  Crochet  them 
round,  with  a  cord  for  drawing  run  into  the  outer  ^ge. 


BOiteD  frmMHOa  899 

!boiL£D  Fruit  Tvi>i>iso> 

Prepare  a  paste  in  accordance  with  dther  of  the  fore- 
going receipts,  but  roll  into  one  sheet  Lay  apples, 
peaches,  or  berries  in  the  centre,  paring  and  slicing  the 
fruit ;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  close  the  paste  over  them 
as  you  would  a  dumpling.  Dip  a  stout  cloth  in  hot  water, 
flour  the  inside,  put  in  the  pudding,  tie  tightly,  and  boil 
two  hours  and  a  half. 

Eat  hot  with  sauce. 

Bice  Dumplihos.  >{« 

1  lb.  rice  boiled  without  stirring,  until   soft,  and  at  the 
top  dry. 

12  pippins,  pared  and  cored. 

Strawberry  marmalade  or  crab-apple  jelly. 

Let  the  rice  cool  upon  a  sieve  or  coarse  cloth,  that  it 
may  dry  at  the  same  time.  Dip  your  .dumpling  cloths  in 
hot  water ;  wring  them  out  and  flour  well  inside.  Put  a 
handful  of  the  cold  rice  upon  each,  spreading  it  out  into 
a  smooth  sheet.  Lay  in  the  centre  an  apple ;  flU  the  hole 
left  by  the  core  with  marmalade  or  jelly  ;  draw  up  the 
cloth  carefully  to  enclose  the  apple  with  a  coating  of  rice ; 
tie,  and  boil  one  hour. 

Turn  over  with  care ;  pour  sweet  sauce  or  rich  sweet- 
ened cream  over  them,  and  send  around  more  in  a  boat 
with  them. 

Suet  Dumplings  (plain.) 

2  cups  fine  bread-crumbs,  soaked  in  a  very  little  milk. 
1  cup  beef  suet,  freed  from  strings,  and  powdered. 

4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separated,  and  beaten  very  light 
X  tablespoonful  sugar. 


400  OOMMOV  SESBB. 

1  even  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder, 

sifted  into  the  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Enough  milk  to  mix  into  a  stiff  paste. 

Make  into  large  balls  with  floured  hands;  put  into 
dumpling  clioths  dipped  into  hot  water  and  floured  inside; 
leave  room  to  swell,  and  tie  the  strings  very  tightly. 

Boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  hot  with  wine 
sauce. 

Fruit  Suet  Dumplings 

Are  made  as  above,  with  the  addition  of  i  lb.  rusins, 
seeded,  chopped,  and  dredged  with  flour,  and  i  lb*  cur- 
rants, washed,  dried,  and  dredged. 
Boil  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 

Boiled  Indian  Meal  Puddqtq. 

1  quart  milk. 

1    "      Indian  meaL 

B^gs. 

3  heaping  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  1  teaspoonful  salt 

i  lb.  beef  suet,  chopped  into  powder. 

Scald  the  milk,  and  while  boiling  hot  stir  in  the  meal 
and  suet  with  the  salt  When  cold  add  the  yolks,  beaten 
light  with  the  sugar,  then  the  whites.  Dip  your  bag  in 
hot  water,  flour  it,  and  fill  half-full  with  the  mixture,  as 
it  will  swell  very  much.     Boil  five  hours. 

Eat  very  hot  with  butter  and  sugar. 

Cabinet  Pudding. 

i  lb.  flour. 
J  "  butter. 
6  eggs. 
1}  lb.  sugar. 


ut  is  three  pieces  each. 
i  dried. 

rated. 

r;  add  the  beatan  folks, 
ternatelf,  with  the  whites. 
Mlged  with  flour,  turn  into 
houra  and  a  half  at  least 
ding  sauee  over  it.     (See 

>DiMa. 

f  bread-crumhs. 

apples. 

chopped. 

id  dried. 

id  aamn  of  allspice. 

oonful  salt, 
wder. 

eaten  jolks;  then  the  suet 
apples ;  next  the  brandy 
lites ;  lastl^r  the  fruit,  well 

raid  three  hoars.    Eat  hot 


UU   PUDDINOB. 

;s  and  chopped  fine. 


40!  (x>»f OK  snw. 

2    Ibfe.  of  nuant,  seeded,  chopped,  and  dredged  with 

flour. 
2  lbs.  of  currants,  picked  over  carefully  after  they  are 

washed. 
\  lb.  of  citron,  shred  fine. 
12  eggd,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
1  pint  of  milk. 

1  cup  of  brandy. 
}  oz.  of  cloves. 

i  "   of  mace. 

2  grated  nutmegs 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  beat  in  the  yolks  when 
you  have  whipped  them  smooth  and  light ;  next  put  in  the 
milk;  then  the  flour,  alternately  with  the  beaten  whites; 
then  the  brandy  and  spice  ;  lastly  the  fruit,  well  dredged 
with  flour.  Mix  all  thoroughly ;  wring  out  your  pudding- 
cloth  in  hot  water ;  flour  well  inside,  pour  in  the  mixture, 
and  boil  five  hours. 

I  can  confidently  recommend  this  as  the  best  plum  pud- 
ding I  have  ever  tasted,  even  when  the  friend  at  whose 
table  I  had  first  the  pleasure  of  eating  it  imitated  the 
example  of  **  good  King  Arthur's  "  economical  spouse,  and 
what  we  "  couldn't  eat  that  night,"  **  next  day  fried,"  by 
heating  a  little  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  laying  in  slices 
of  her  pudding,  warmed  them  into  almost  their  original 
excellence.  It  will  keep  a  long  time — in  a  locked  closet 
or  safe. 

Orange  Roley-Poley.  >J< 

Make  a  light  paste  as  for  apple  dumplings  or  valise 
pudding,  roll  in  an  oblong  sheet,  and  lay  oranges  (sweet 
ones),  peeled,  sliced,  and  seeded,  thickly  all  over  it  Sprin> 
kle  with  white  sugar;  scatter  a  teaspoonful  or  two  of  the 
grated  yellow  peel  over  all  and  roll  up  closely,  folding 


FRITTfifiS,  FASCAJUSy  EXa  403 

domi  the  end  to  secure  the  syrup.     Boil  in  a  pudding- 
cloth  one  hour  and  a  half. 
Eat  with  lemon  saaoe. 

Cherry  or  CcRRAirr  Pyramid.  ^ 

Wash  and  stone  the  cherries,  or  pick  the  currants  from 
their  stems.  Make  some  good  light  crust,  roll  it  out  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  Cut  for  the  bottom  a  round 
piece  about  the  size  of  a  tea^plate.  You  can  use  the  top 
of  a  tin  pail  for  a  cutter.  Spread  your  fruit  upon  this, 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  leaving  a  half  inch  margin  all 
around.  Roll  out  a  second  sheet  an  inch  less  in  diameter 
than  the  first,  lay  it  carefully  upon  the  fruit,  and  turn  up 
the  margin  of  the  lower  piece  over  the  edge  of  this.  Spread 
this,  in  turn,  with  fruit  and  sugar,  and  cover  with  a  third 
and  lessening  round ;  proceeding  in  this  order  until  the 
sixth  and  topmost  cover  is  not  more  than  three  inches 
across.  Have  ready  a  conical  cap  of  stout  muslin  adapted 
to  the  proportions  and  dimensions  of  your  pile ;  dip  it  in 
boiling  water,  flour  inside,  and  draw  gently  over  all.  It 
should  be  large  enough  to  meet  and  tie  under  the  base 
without  cramping  the  pyramid. 
Boil  two  hours,  and  eat  with  sweet  sauce. 


FRITTERS,  PANCAKES,  Ero. 

Have  plenty  of  nice  sweet  lard  in  which  to  fry  fritters, 
and  test  the  heat  by  dropping  in  a  teaspoonful  before  you 
risk  more.  If  right,  the  batter  will,  rise  quickly  to  the  sur- 
face in  a  puff-ball,  spluttering  and  dancing,  and  will 
speedily  assume  a  rich  golden-brown.   Take  up,  as  soon  aa 


404  OOKMOK  8EHBS. 

done,  with  a  skimmer,  shaking  it  to  dislodge  any  drops  of 
lard  that  may  adhere ;  pile  in  a  hot  dish,  sift  sugar  over 
them,  and  send  instantly  to  the  table.  Fry  as  many  at  a 
time  as  the  kettle  will  hold,  and  send  in  hot  fresh  ones 
while  the  batter  lasts.  A  round-bottomed  saucepan  or 
kettle,  rather  wide  at  top,  is  best  for  frying  them. 

Use  a  frying-pan  for  pancakes ;  heat  it ;  put  in  a  tear 
spoonful  or  two  of  lard  and  run  it  quickly  over  the  bottom ; 
then  pour  in  a  large  ladleful  of  batter — enough  to  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  a  thin  sheet  Turn  with  a  tin 
spatula,  very  carefully,  to  avoid  tearing  it  The  frying- 
pan  should  be  a  small  one.  Have  ready  a  hot  dish ;  turn 
out  the  pancake  upon  it,  cover  with  powdered  sugar,  and 
roll  up  dexterously  like  a  sheet  of  paper.  Send  half  a 
dozen  to  table  at  once,  keeping  them  hot  by  setting  the 
dish  in  the  oven  until  enough  are  baked. 

I  am  thus  explicit  in  these  general  instructions  to  save 
myself  the  trouble,  and  the  reader  the  tedium,  of  a  repeti- 
tion under  each  receipt 

In  olden  times  it  was  a  boast  of  notable  cooks  that  they 
jould  toss  a  pancake  from  the  pan  out  of  the  top  of  the 
idiimney  with  such  accuracy  of  calculation,  that  it  would 
tnrn  itself  on  the  way  back,  and  settle  in  its  place,  ready, 
*ike  St  Lawrence,  to  have  the  other  side  fried.  I  never 
AW  a  pancake  tossed,  although  in  my  childish  days  I  saw 
hundreds  fried  by  the  honorable  tribe — now  so  fast  pass- 
ing away — of  Old  Virginia  cooks.  I  do  not  advise  this 
acrobatic  system  of  culinary  exploit,  especially  for  be- 
ginners. Indeed,  I  doubt  if  the  pancakes  would  be  found 
equal  to  the  journey  in  these  days  of  tight  chimney-throats 
and  cooking  stoves.  They  roust  be  out  of  practice  as  well 
as  their  manufacturers.  Be  careful  not  to  have  too  much 
grease  in  the  pan. 


B,  PAVCAXEB,  Bra  wo 

CEE8   {No.  1.)  ^ 

t  flour. 

13. 

spooQf\il  salt. 
t  boiliDg  water. 

le  water  by  degrees,  and  Btic  until 
tea.  Let  it  get  almost  cold,  when 
he  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  must 
CJ. 

rTEBB  iNo.  2.) 


CleveUnd'B     Baking   Powder, 
flour. 


ffbitee  separately,  of  course ;  stir 
former,  then  the  flour  aud  salt, 
t  very  hard,  and  fry  at  onee,  in 

E  Fritters.  ^ 

ig  to  the  preceding  receipts 

les,  pared  and  quartered. 

bite  sugar. 

namoD. 

ry  little  water,  the  sugar,  and  the 
epan  with  the  apples.  Stir  gently 
iff  the  liquor,  every  drop ;  mince 
d  stir  into  the  batter. 


406 


0(fMMOS  SStrQB. 


Or. 

YoQ  may  parboil  the  apples  in  clear  water,  with  a  very 
Uttle  Bugar,  and  proceed  as  just  directed 

J^LY  Fritters. 

1  scant  cup  sponge-cake  crumbs — very  fine  and  dry. 

1  cup  boiling  milk. 
4  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  com-starcb,  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  currant  or  cranberry  jelly. 

Soak  the  cake-crumbs  in  the  boiling  milk,  and  stir  in 
the  corn-starch.  Heat  all  together  to  a  boil,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Beat  the  yolks  light,  and  add  to  this  as  it  cools, 
with  the  sugar.  Whip  in  the  jelly,  a  little  at  a  time,  and 
put  in  the  whites — beaten  to  a  stiff  froth — at  the  last. 

Fry  immediately. 

Bread  FRnTERSt 

1  quart  milk — ^boiling^hot 

2  cups  fine  bread-crumbs 

3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
1  tablespoonful  butter — melted. 

1  saltspoonful  salt,  and  the  same  of  soda,  diasolved  in 
hot  water. 

Boak  the  bread  in  the  boiling  milk  ten  minutes,  in  a 
covered  bowl.  Beat  to  a  smooth  paste;  add  the  whipped 
yolks,  the  butter,  salt,  soda,  and  finally  the  whites,  whipped 
stiff. 

Queen's  Toast.  ^ 
Fry  slices  of  stale  baker's  bread  in  boiling  lard  to  a 


a.  407 

:kl5  in  boiling  water  to 
ith  powdered  sugar  and 
i  toastiag,  cut  the  slices 
;  off  all  the  crust.  The; 
r  sweet  wine  sauce  over 


B  (very  nice).  *}• 

p  cake,  cut  into  rounds 


n,  or  jelly. 

'  a  nice  brown.  Dip  each 
liling  milk,  draining  thii 
on  a  hot  dish  and  spread 
ch  jelly,  or  other  delicate 
1  send  around  hot,  with 

stale  cake,  and  if  rightly 
al  to  Neapolitan  pudding. 


e  of  Boda  dieeolved    in 

3egin  with  two  cups  and 
it  conaistency.  Beat  the 
id  two  cups  of  milk,  then 
jmately,  and  thin  with 


408  COliMOK  8EN8B. 

Jellt  or  Jam  Pancakes. 

A  batter  as  above.  When  the  pancakes  are  fried,  lay 
upon  a  hot  plate,  spread  quickly  with  Dice  jam  or  jelly, 
and  roll  up  neatly  upon  the  preserves.  Sprinkle  lightly 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  send  around  with  wine  sauce  or 
sweetened  cream. 


SWEET,  OR  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

Habd  Sauce.  ^ 

Stir  to  a  cream  1  cup  of  butter. 

3  cups  of  powdered  sugar. 
When  light,  beat  in  }  teacup  wine. 

Juice  of  a  lemon. 
2  teaspoonfuls  nutmeg. 

Beat  long  and  hard  until  several  shades  lighter  in  color 
than  at  first,  and  creamy  in  consistency.  Smooth  into 
shape  with  a  broad  knife  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  stamp 
with  a  wooden  mould,  first  scalded  and  then  dipped  in 
cold  water.    Set  upon  the  ice  until  the  pudding  is  served. 

Bei^hive  Sauce.  ^< 

Mix  a  hard  sauce  according  to  the  previous  receipt, 
and  when  light,  set  aside  three  or  four  tablespoonfiils  in  a 
plate.  To  the  larger  quantity  left  add  gradually,  cherry, 
currant,  or  cranberry  juice  enough  to  color  it  a  good 
pink.  Red  jelly  will  do  if  berries  are  out'  of  season. 
Beat  the  coloring  matter  in  thoroughly,  and  shape  into  a 
conical  mound.  Roll  half  a  sheet  of  note-paper  into  a 
long,  narrow  funnel,  tie  a  string  about  it  to  keep  it  in 
shape,  and  fill  with  the  uncolored  sauce.  Squeeze  it  out 
gently  through  the  small  end  in  a  ridge,  beginning  at  the 


'tfsr* 


SWEET,  OB  PUDDING  SAUCES.  409 

base  of  the  oone  and  winding  about  it  to  the  top,  filling 
jour  funnel  as  it  is  emptied,  and  guiding  it  carefully. 
The  effect  of  the  alternate  white-and  pink  lines  is  very 
pretty. 

If  the  pudding  is  one  to  which  chocolate  would  be  a 
pleasant  addition,  color  with  grated  chocolate,  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  of  the  wine,  and  ridge  with  white.  Set 
upon  the  ice  or  upon  the  cellar-floor  until  firm.  Stick  a 
colored  almond  or  other  ornamental  candy  upon  the  top. 

This  bee-hiye  is  easily  made,  and  will  set  off  even  a 
plain  pudding  handsomely. 

Brandy  Sauce  (hard.)  >{< 

i  cup  butter. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar. 

1  wineglass  brandy. 

1  teaspoonful  mixed  cinnamon  and  mace. 

Warm  the  butter  very  slightly,  work  in  the  sugar,  and, 
when  this  is  light,  the  brandy  and  spice.  Beat  hard — 
shape  into  a  mould  and  set  in  a  cold  place  until  wanted. 

White  Wine  Sauce  (liquid.')  ^ 

i  cup  butter. 

2i  cups  powdered  sugar. 

2  wineglasses  pale  Sherry  or  white  wine. 
}  cup  boiling  water. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Work  the  butter  into  the  sugar,  moistening,  as  you  go 
on,  with  boiling  water.  Beat  long  and  hard  until  your 
bowl  is  nearly  full  of  a  creamy  mixture.  Then  add  gradu- 
ally the  wine  and  nutmeg,  still  beating  bard.  Turn  into 
a  tin  pail,  set  within  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and 
■tir  frequently  until  the  sauce  is  hot,  but  not  until  it 
18 


410  COMMON  BENBE. 

boils.  Take  the  saucepan  from  the  fire  and  leave  the  pail 
standing  in  the  water,  stirring  the  contents  now  and 
then,  until  you  are  ready  to  serve  the  pudding. 

If  rightly  made,  this  sauce  will  be  nearly  as  white  as 
milk. 

Lemon  Sauce.  ^ 

1  large  cup  of  sugar. 
Nearly  half  a  cup  of  butter. 

1  lemon — all  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peeL 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

3  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  beat  in  the  egg  whipped 
light ;  the  lemon  and  nutmeg.  Beat  hard  ten  minutes, 
and  add,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  the  boiling  water.  Put  in 
a  tin  pail  and  set  within  the  uncovered  top  of  the  tea-ket- 
tle, which  you  must  keep  boiling  until  the  steam  heats  the 
sauce  very  hot,  but  not  to  boiling.     Stir  constantly. 

Milk  Pudding  Sauce.  ^ 

2  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 

1  large  cup  of  sugar. 

5  tablespoonfuls  boiling  milk. 

}  teaspoonful  arrow- root  or  corn-starch,  wet  with 

cold  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  or  mace. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  sugar,  add  the  beaten  eggs,  and 
work  all  to  a  creamy  froth.  Wet  the  corn-starch  and 
put  in  next  with  the  spice — ^finally,  pour  in  by  the  spoon- 
ful the  boiling  milk,  beating  well  all  the  time.    Set  within 


'UDQUIQ  SAUCEa.  411 

water    five    minutes,  edrring 
it  the  sauce  boil. 
r  bread  and  other  simple  pud< 


DSiNQ  Sacce.    >{• 


vbipped  very  light, 
half  the  gnted  peeL 


sugar,  add  the  yolks,  lemon,  and 
,Dd  put  in  the  wine,  still  stirring 
ipaii  of  boiling  water,  and  beat 
let  it  boil. 


iDiNO  Sauce.  4* 

:om-starch  wet  in  a  little  cold 
ifllf  the  grated  peel. 


Jgar  well ;  pour  the  coru-Btarch 
1  stir  over  a  clear  fire  until  it  is 
)gether  in  a  bowl  and  beat  five 
r  to  the  saucepan-  Heat  once, 
t,  add  the  wine,  and  serve. 


412  COMMON  8EM8E. 

CusTABD  Sauce. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

2  eggs,  beaten  yery  light. 
i  wineglass  of  brandy. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,  stirred  into  the  eggs. 

Nutmeg  to  taste. 

1  teaspoonful  yanilla. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  add  by  degrees  to  the 
beaten  eggs  and  sugar ;  put  in  the  nutmeg,  and  set  within 
a  saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Stir  until  it  begins  to 
thicken.  Take  it  off  and  add  the  brandy  gradually.  Set, 
until  it  is  wanted,  within  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 

Pour  over  the  pudding  when  it  comes  from  the  mould. 


Jelly  Sauce.  ^ 

I  cup  currant  jelly. 

1  tablespoouful  butter,  melted. 

}  dessert-spoonful  arrowroot  or  corn-starch ;  wet  with 

cold  water. 
1  glass  pale  Sherry.     • 
3  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water. 

Stir  the  arrowroot  into  the  boiling  water  and  heat,  stir- 
ring all  the  time,  until  it  thickens ;  add  the  butter,  and 
set  aside  until  almost  cool,  when  beat  in,  spoonful  by 
spoonful,  the  jelly  to  a  smooth  pink  paste.  Pour  in  the 
wine,  stir  hard,  and  heat  in  a  tin  vessel,  set  within  another 
of  boiling  water,  until  very  hot 

Pour  over  and  around  Neapolitan,  bread-and-marma* 
lade  puddings,  cake  fritters,  and  Queen's  toast 


OB  PUDblMO  B4UCE8.  413 

;ened  Cream  {cold.) 
cream. 

toDfiils  powdered  sugar, 
nful  of  nutmeg, 
vanillft. 

her,  stirring  until  the  Bugar  is  dis- 
n  puddings,  queen  of  all  puddings, 
peach  roley-poley. 

lAM  SaDCB   (hot.)    "J" 

ivdered  sugar. 

I,  beat«n  stiff. 

or  bitter  almonds,  one  teaspoonful. 

leg. 

iwly  in  a  vessel  set  in  a  saucepan  of 
Qg  o^en.  When  scalding,  but  not 
t  from  the  fire,  put  in  the  sugar  and 
)r  four  minutes  and  add  the  whites, 
d&vor,  setting  the  bowl  containing  it 
■  until  the  pudding  is  served,  stirring 

y  Sauce.  (No.  2).  i^- 

lelted  butter. 

d  half  the  grated  peeL 

neg. 

1  a  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar. 

little  more  than  blood  -  warm ;  beat 
batter  and  add  gradually  the  butter, 
leg.    Warm  almost  to  a  boil,  stirring 


414  COMMON  8ENBE. 

all  the  while ;  beat  hard,  put  in  the  sugar^  lastly  the  wine. 
Set  ID  ayessel  of  hot  water  stirrisg  now  and  then,  until  it 
is  wanted.  Keep  it  covered  to  hinder  the  escape  of  the 
wine  flavor.     Stir  well  before  pouring  out 

This  is  a  very  fine  sauce,  particularly  for  cabinet  and 
Neopolitan  puddings. 

Custards,  Blako-Manqe,  Jellies,  and  Creams. 

A  good  rule  for  custard  is  five  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk, 
and  a  tablespooniul  of  sugar  to  each  egg,  although  a  good 
plain  custard  can  be  made  with  an  egg  for  each  cup  of 
milk  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  the  quart.  Creams 
and  custards  that  are  to  be  frozen  must  have  at  least  one- 
tbird  more  sugar  than  those  which  are  not  to  undergo 
this  process. 

In  heating  the  milk  for  custard,  do  not  let  it  quite  boil 
before  adding  the  yolks.  My  plan,  which  has  proved  a 
safe  one  thus  far,  is  to  take  the  scalding  milk  from  the 
fire,  and  instead  of  pouring  the  beaten  eggs  into  it,  to  put 
a  spoonful  or  two  of  the  milk  to  them,  beating  well  all  the 
while,  adding  more  and  more  milk  as  I  mix,  until  there 
is  no  longer  danger  of  sudden  curdling.  Then,  return  all 
to  the  fire  and  boil  gently  until  the  mixture  is  of  the  right 
consistency.  From  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  should  thicken 
a  quart.  Stir  constantly.  A  pinch  of  soda  added  in  hot 
weather  will  prevent  the  milk  from  curdling. 

Altoarjs  boil  milk  and  ciutard  in  a  vessel  set  wUhin  another 
of  boiling  water.  If  you  have  not  a  custard  or  farina  ket- 
tle, improvise  one  by  setting  a  tin  pail  inside  of  a  pot  of 
hot  water,  taking  care  it  does  not  float,  also  that  the 
water  is  not  so  deep  as  to  bubble  over  the  top.  Custards 
are  better  and  lighter  if  the  yolks  and  whites  are  beaten 
separately,  the  latter  stirred  in  at  the  last. 


1,   BI^NC-MAKQES,  BIC.  416 

LED  CUSTAKD.   >{< 

3  and  the  whit«a  of  seven — (two  for 

lugar. 

; — 1  teaspoonful  to  the  pint. 

oetto  boiling;  beat  the  yolks  light 
Add  the  milk  in  the  manner  de- 
iiredJons"  at  head  of  this  sration; 
ipped  stiff;  return  to  the  fire  and 
>t  until  it  breaka.  Season  it  vith 
33  cups ;  whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
custard  is  cold,  pile  a  tittle  of  this 
b  cup.  You  may  lay  a  preserved 
or  a  bit  of  melon  sweatmeat,  or  a 


MOSD  CCBTABDS. 

'cream). 

anched  and  pounded  to  a  paste,  a 
in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  adding 

if  rose-water. 

gs  and  whites  of  four — (two  for  m6- 

lugar. 

ract  bitter  almond  in  meringue. 

I  the  beaten  yolks,  the  sugar,  the 
1  whites  of  two  eggs-     Boil,  stirring 


416  COMMON  SENSE. 

ooDStantlj  until  it  thickens.  Stir  up  well  when  almost 
cold  and  pour  into  cups.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  fla- 
vored with  bitter  almond,  and  heap  upon  each  cup. 

Quaking  Cdstfard.  >{< 

3  cups  milk. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs — ^reserving  the  whites  for  m& 

ringue. 
i  package  Cooper's  or  Coxe's  gelatine. 
6  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
Vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring.    Juice  of  a  lemon  iii 

meringue. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  the  cold  milk  two  hours. 
Then  heat  the  rest  of  the  milk  to  boiling,  add  that  in  which 
the  gelatine  is,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  latter  is 
quite  dissolved.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  let  it  stand  five 
minutes  before  putting  in  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar. 
Heat  slowly  until  it  begins  to  thicken  perceptibly,  not 
boil — say  seven  or  eight  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
When  nearly  cold,  having  stirred  it  every  few  minutes 
during  the  time,  flavor  it,  wash  out  your  mould  in  cold 
water,  and  without  wiping  it,  pour  in  the  custard  and  set 
on  the  ice  or  in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  When  quite  firm, 
turn  into  a  cold  dish,  loosening  it  by  wrapping  about  the 
mould  a  doth  wrung  out  in  hot  water,  or  dipping  the 
mould  for  an  instant  in  warm,  not  boiling  water.  Have 
ready  the  whites  whipped  to  a  froth  with  three  tablespoon- 
fuls powdered  sugar  and  juice  of  a  lemon.  Heap  neatly 
about  the  base  of  the  moulded  custard,  like  snow-drifts. 
If  you  like,  you  may  dot  this  with  minute  bits  of  currant 
jelly. 

This  is  a  pleasing  dish  to  the  eye  and  taste. 


SB,  BIAVO-IUIIQES,  ETC.  417 

LATINO  Island.  *i* 

Ik. 

a  aD<I  yolka  beaten  eeparatelf . 

ilia  (^heapiug)  white  sugar. 

a  extract  bitter  almond  or  vanilla. 

;  jelly. 

11,  stir  in  the  sugar,  and  add  the  hot, 

little  at  a  time.     Boil  until  it  begins 

ool,  flavor  and  pour  into  a  glaw  dish, 

ell.    Heap  upon  it  a  meringue  of  the 

lu  have  beaten,  gradually,  half  a  cup 

ry,  or  other  bright  tart  jelly.     Dot 

It  into  rings  or  stars,  or  straight  slips 

FAMISH  Creau.  •{< 

box  of  gelatine. 

quart  of  milk, 
'oiks  of  three  eggs. 

small  cup  of  sugar, 
an  )iour  in  the  milk ;  put  on  the  fire 
[irms.  Beat  the  yolks  very  light  with 
le  scalding  milk,  and  beat  to  boiling 
e  while.  Strain  through  thin  muslin 
3n  almost  cold,  put  into  a  mould  wet 
lavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

ln  Greah  iVeryJaie.)  »t 
cream, 
r  four  eggs, 
ine  or  isinglass. 
I  of  sugar. 
9  vanilla  or  bitter  almond  extract 


418  ooMMoir  sBirss. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  just  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it| 
for  an  hour.  Drain,  and  stir  into  a  pint  of  the  cream 
made  boiling  hot.  Beat  the  yolks  smooth  with  the  sugar, 
and  add  the  boiling  mixture,  beaten  in  a  little  at  a  time. 
Heat  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  but  do  not  actually  boil ; 
remove  it  from  the  fire,  flavor,  an<ik  while  it  is  still  hot  stir 
in  the  other  pint  of  cream,  whipped  or  churned  in  a  sylla- 
bub churn  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  in  this  "whip,"  a  spoon- 
ful at  a  time,  into  the  custard  until  it  is  the  consistency  of 
sponge-cake  batter.  Dip  a  mould  in  cold  water,  pour  in 
the  mixture,  and  set  on  the  ice  to  form. 

Snow  Custard.  >J< 

}  package  Coxe's  gelatine. 
3  eggs. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Soak  the  gelatine  one  hour  in  a  teacupful  of  cold  water. 
To  this,  at  the  end  of  this  time,  add  one  pint  boiling  water. 
Stir  uDtil  the  gelatine  is  thoroughly  dissolved ;  add  two- 
thirds  o(  the  sugar  and  the  lemon-juice.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  when  the  gelatine-  is  quite 
cold,  whip  it  into  the  whites,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  for 
an  hour.  Whip  steadily  and  evenly,  and  when  all  is  stiff, 
pour  into  a  mould,  i>reviously  wet  with  cold  water,  and 
set  in  a  cold  place.  In  foi^r  or  five  hours  turn  into  a  glass 
dish. 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  eggs,  and  remainder  of  the 
sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  bitter  almond,  and  when  the 
meringue  is  turned  out  of  the  mould,  pour  this  around  the 
base 


BLANC-HAKOEe,  ETC.  419 

SD  CUSTABD.    •i' 

t — whites  aad  yolks  Beparately. 
igar,  mixed  with  the  yolks. 

io. 

the  milk ;  add  by  degrees  to  the 
a  well  mixed.  Btir  in  the  whitu. 
a  a  deep  dish,  or  custard-cups  of 
these  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  grato 
bake  until  firm.     Eat  cold  from 

^FIOGA  CpBTARD,    "i* 

lis  tapioca. 


ail  la,  or  other 
f  sugar. 

he  water  five  hours.  Let  the  milk 
e  tapioca,  the  water  in  which  it  was 
:h  of  salt.  Stir  until  boiling  hot, 
he  beaten  yolks  and  sugar.  Boil 
si  set  within  another  of  hot  water), 
et  it  cook  until  thick,  but  not  too 
ill  break.  Five  minutes  after  it 
uffice.  Pour  into  a  bowl,  and  stir 
I  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to 
ind  set  aside  in  a  glass  dish  until 

miment  of  light  cake  and  brandied. 


420  COMMON  SENSE. 

or  canned  peaches  or  pears.    This  will  be  found  a  yer]f 
delightful  dessert 

Tapioca  Blanc-manoe.  >{< 

i  lb.  tapioca,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  cold  water  four  hours. 

1  pint  rich  new  milk, 
i  cup  of  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  bitter  almond  or  vanilla  essence. 
A  little  salt. 

Heat  the  milk,  and  stir  in  the  soaked  tapioca.  When 
it  has  dissolved,  add  the  sugar.  Boil  slowly  fifteen  min- 
utes, stirring  all  the  time ;  take  from  the  fire,  and  beat 
until  nearly  cold.  Flavor  and  pour  into  a  mould  dipped 
in  cold  water.  Turn  out,  and  pour  cold  sweetened  cream 
around  it 

Sago  Blanc-mange. 
May  be  made  in  the  same  way  as  tapioca. 

Corn-Starch  Blanc-mange.  >i< 

1  quart  of  milk. 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch,  wet  in  a  little  cold  water. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten — whites  and  yolks  separately. 
1  cup  of  sugar. 

Vanilla,  lemon,  or  other  essence. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling ;  stir  in  the  corn-starch  and 
salt,  and  boil  together  five  minutes  (in  a  farina-kettle), 
then  add  the  yolks,  beaten  light,  with  the  sugar ;  boil  two 
minutes  longer,  stirring  all  the  while ;  remove  the  mixture 
from  the  fire,  and  beat  in  the  whipped  whites  while  it  is 
boiling  hot  Pour  into  a  mould  wet  with  cold  water,  and 
set  in  a  cold  place.    Eat  with  sugar  and  cream. 


a,  BLANC-HAKOES,  ETC.  421 

ISA.  Blanc-uange 
the  above  receipt,  but  bulled  fifteen 
rga  are  added.      You  may  omit  the 
>bIj  want  a  plidn  dessert. 

OOT   BCANC-MANOE.    »J< 

r  arrowroot,  wet  up  witb  cold  milk. 

bitter  almond  flavoring,  with  a  little 

to  a  smooth  batter  with  one  cup  of 
'emainder  to  boiling  ;  add  the  arrow- 
I7.  When  it  begins  to  thicken  put 
c  ten  minutes  longer,  still  stirring  it 
ad  bottom.  Take  it  off;  beat  well 
with  the  essence  and  a  small  wine- 
Give  a  hard  fiual  stir  before  putting 
ith  cold  water. 

ling  for  invalids  and  young  children, 
ty  omit  the  wine. 

ro  Blanc-icange.  ^ 


blanched  and  funded  in  a  mortar, 
■ose-water,  added  to  prevent  oiling; 

oiling,  having  previously  soaked  the 
for  au  hour-  Turn  in  this  when  the 
add  the  pounded  almond-paste,  and 

minutes  before  putting  in  the  sugar. 

IS  dissolved,  remove  the  blanc-mange 


422  OOMMON  SENSE. 

from  the  vestsel  of  boiling  water  in  which  you  have  cooked 
it,  and  strain  through  a  thin  muslin  bag,  pressing  it  well 
to  get  out  the  flavor  of  the  almonds.  There  should  be 
three  or  four  bitter  ones  among  them.  Wet  a  mould  with 
cold  water,  put  in  the  blanc-mange,  and  set  in  a  cold  place 
until  firm. 

You  may  make  blanc-mange  without  the  almonds, 
although  it  will  not  be  so  nice — and  substitute  vanilla  for 
the  rose-water. 

Neapolitan  Blano-mange.  >J« 

Make  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  and,  after 
straining,  separate  into  four  different  portions,  allowing 
about  a  cupful  of  the  mixture  for  each.     Have  ready 

1  great  tablespoonful  chocolate,  wet  with  a  very  little 
boiling  water,  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste,  for  the 
brown  coloring. 

Yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  light  for  the  yellow. 

1  great  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly  for  the  pink. 

Beat  the  chocolate  into  one  portion,  mixing  it  well ; 
the  jelly  into  another,  the  egg  into  a  third,  returning  this 
and  that  flavored  with  chocolate,  to  the  fire,  and  stirring 
until  very  hot,  but  not  boiling.  Leave  the  fourth  uncol- 
ored.  When  quite  cold  and  a  little  stiff,  pour  carefully 
into  a  wet  mould — tl^e  white  first ;  then  the  pink  ;  next 
the  yellow ;  and  the  cho(X)late  last  Of  course,  when  the 
blanc-mange  is  turned  out,  this  order  of  colors  will  be  re- 
versed. Set  in  a  cold  place.  Loosen,  when  firm,  by  dip- 
ping the  mould  for  a  moment  in  warm  water,  and  working 
the  top  free  from  the  edge  with  a  few  light  touches  of 
your  fingers.  This  is  a  handsome  dish  and  easily  man- 
aged. Currant  juice  or  cranberry  color  a  finer  pink  than 
jelly,  but  are  apt  to  thin  the  blanc-mange,  unless  used  cau- 
tiously.    A  little  vaniUa  improves  the  chocolate. 


CUBTABDS,  BLAirc-MANGEB,  ETC.  428 

Jaune-manqe.  ^ 

1  oz.  Coxe*8  gelatine,  soaked  in  half  a  cup  cold  water 

one  hour. 
1  cup  of  boiling  water. 
Yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  very  light. 
1  orange,  juice  and  half  the  grated  peeL 
1  lemon,      "     and  one-third  the  grated  peel. 
1  cup  white  wine  or  clear  pale  Sherry. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  and  a  good  pinch  cinnamon. 

Stir  the  soaked  gelatine  in  the  boiling  water  until  dis- 
solved ;  take  from  the  fire  and  beat,  a  little  at  a  time, 
into  the  yolks ;  return  to  the  inner  saucepan  with  the 
sugar,  orange,  lemon  and  cinnamon.  Stir  over  a  clear 
fire  until  it  is  boiling  hot ;  put  in  the  wine  and  strain 
through  a  hair-sieve  or  a  piece  of  tarlatan.  Set  away  in  a 
mould  wet  with  cold  water. 

The  success  of  this  dish  depends  much  upon  the  stirring 
and  the  watchfulness  of  the  cook.  The  mixture  should 
not  be  allowed  to  boil  at  any  moment. 

Velvet  Blanc-mange.  >j< 

2  cups  of  sweet  cream. 

i  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  very  little  cold  water 

one  hour. 
i  cup  white  sugar  (powdered. ) 
1  teaspoonful  extract  of  bitter  almonds. 
1  glass  white  wine. 

Heat  the  cream  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  gelatine  and 
sugar,  and,  so  soon  as  they  are  dissolved,  take  from  the 
fire.  Beat  ten  minutes,  or,  what  is  better,  churn  in  a 
syllabub-churn  until  very  light ;  flavor,  and  add  by  de- 
grees the  wine,  mixing  it  in  well.  Put  into  moulds  wet 
with  cold  water. 


424  oommok  8sn3b. 

Chogolat£  Blang-makqs. 
1  quart  of  milk. 

1  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine^  soaked  in  a  cup  of  the  milk  one 

hour. 
4  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  rubbed  up 

with  a  little  milk. 
3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
i  cup  sugar  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling;  pour  in  the  gelatine  and 
milk,  and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved  ;  add  the  sugar  to  the 
beaten  yolks  and  stir  until  smooth ;  beat  the  chocolate 
into  this,  and  pour  in,  spoonful  by  spoonful,  the  scalding 
milk  upon  the  mixture,  stirring  all  the  while  until  all  is 
in.  Return  to  the  inner  saucepan  and  heat  gently,  stirring 
faithfully  until  it  almost  boils.  Remove  from  fire,  turn 
into  a  bowl,  and  whip  in  lightly  and  briskly  the  beaten 
whites  with  the  vanilla.  Set  to  form  in  moulds  wet  with 
cold  water. 

Charlotte  Russe.  >J« 

1  lb.  of  ladyVfingers. 

1  quart  of  rich  sweet  cream. 
}  cup  powdered  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  other  extract. 

Split  and  trim  the  cakes,  and  fit  neatly  in  the  bottom 
and  sides  of  two  quart  moulds.  Whip  the  cream  to  a  stiff 
froth  in  a  syllabub-churn  when  you  have  sweetened  and 
flavored  it ;  fill  the  moulds,  lay  cakes  closely  together  on 
the  top,  and  set  upon  the  ice  until  needed. 

Or, 

You  may  use  for  this  purpose  a  loaf  of  sponge-cake,  cut- 
ting strips  from  it  for  the  sides  and  leaving  the  crust  for 
the  bottom  and  top,  each  in  one  piece. 


OUSTARBB,  SLA390-SANGE8y  STC. 


425 


A  Tipsy  Chablottb.  »i< 

1  large  stale  sponge-cake. 

1  pint  rich  sweet  cream. 

1  cup  Sherry  wine. 

i  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  cold  water 

two  hours. 
1  teaspoonful  vanilla  or  bitter  almond  extract. 
3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  together,  but  very  light 
1  pint  milk. 
1  cup  sugar. 

Heat  the  cream  almost  to  boiling ;  put  in  the  soaked 
gelatine  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  stir  until  dissolved. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  flavor,  and  when  cool,  beat  or 
churn  to  a  standing  froth.  Cut  off  the  top  of  the  cake  in 
one  piece,  and  scoop  out  the  middle,  leaving  the  sides  and 
bottom  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Over  the  inside 
of  these  pour  the  wine  in  spoonfuls,  that  all  may  be 
evenly  moistened.  Fill  with  the  whipped  cream,  replace 
the  top,  which  should  also  be  moistened  with  wine  and 
set  in  a  cold  place  until  needed. 

Serve  with  it,  or  pour  around  it,  a  custard  made  ot  the 
eggSy  milk,  and  the  other  half  cup  of  sugar. 

Chocolate  Charlotte  Russe.  >j< 
i  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked   in   a  very  little  cold 
water. 

3  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate  rubbed  smooth  in  a 
little  milk 

i  cup  powdered  sugar. 

4  eggs. 

}  lb.  sponge-cake. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

1  pint  cream. 

Heat  the  cream  to  boiling,  slowly,  stirring  frequently ; 


426  OOMMOV  SENSE. 

add  the  BUgar,  chocolate,  and  gelatine,  and,  when  these  are 
dissolved,  add,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  to  the  beaten  yolks. 
Set  back  in  the  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  five 
minutes,  until  very  hot,  but  do'  not  let  it  boil.  Take  it 
off,  flavor,  and  whip  or  chum  to  a  standing  froth,  adding 
the  beaten  whites  toward  the  last  Line  a  mould  with 
cake,  fill  with  the  mixture,  and  set  upon  the  ice. 

Flummery. 

2  oz.  almonds — a  few  bitter  among  them. 

1  tablespoonfiil  orange-flower  or  rose-water. 

1  pint  cream. 

1  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  qae  hour  in  one  cup  cold 

water. 
1  cup  milk. 
i   "    sugar. 

I 

Blanch  the  almonds,  and,  when  cold,  pound  them  to  a 
paste  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  adding  orange-flower  or 
rose-water  to  prevent  oiling.  Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  put 
in  the  gelatine,  the  sugar  and  almonds,  and  stir  five 
minutes,  or  until  they  are  thoroughly  dissolved.  Strain 
through  thin  muslin,  pressing  the  cloth  well.  When  cool, 
beat  in  the  cream,  a  little  at  a  time,  with  an  egg-whip,  or 
churn  in  a  syllabub-churn  until  thick  and  stifi*.  Wet  your 
mould,  put  in  the  mixture,  and  let  it  stand  seven  or  eight 
hours  in  a  cold  place. 

Gelatine  Charlotte  Busse.     ( Very  nice.)  >I< 

1  pint  of  cream,  whipped  light, 
i  oz.  gelatine,  dissolved  in  1  gill  of  hot  milk. 
Whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff*  froth. 
1  small  tea-cup  of  powdered  sugar. 
Flavor  with  bitter  almond  and  vanilla. 
Mix  the  cream,  eggs,  and  sugar ;  flavor,  and  beat  in  the 


CUSTABDe,  BLAKC-MANGES,  ETC.  427 

gelatine  and  milk  last  It  should  be  quite  cold  before  it 
is  added. 

Line  a  mould  with  slices  of  sponge-cake,  or  with  lady^s 
&]ger9,  and  fill  with  the  mixture. 

Set  upon  the  ice  to  cool. 

Whipped  Syllabubs. 

1  pint  of  cream,  rich  and  sweet 

i  cup  sugar,  powdered. 

1  glass  of  wine. 

Vanilla  or  other  extract,  1  large  teaspoonful. 

Sweeten  the  cream,  and,  when  the  sugar  is  thoroughly 
dissolved,  chum  to  a  strong  froth.  Lastly,  stir  in  wine 
and  seasoning,  carefully.     Serve  at  once. 

Heap  in  glasses,  and  eat  with  cake. 

GOOSEBERBY   FoOL. 

1  quart  of  gooseberries,  ripe. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs. 

M6riugue  of  whites,  and  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Stew  the  gooseberries  in  just  water  enough  to  cover 
them.  When  soft  and  broken,  rub  them  through  a  sieve 
to  remove  the  skins.  While  still  hot  beat  in  the  butter, 
sugar,  and  the  whipped  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Pile  in  a  glass 
dish,  or  in  small  glasses,  and  heap  upon  the  top  a  m^ringuo 
of  the  whipped  whites  and  sugar. 

Cbeam  Meringues. 

^  ^gs  (the  whites  only),  whipped  stiff,  with  1  lb.  pow' 

dered  sugar. 
Lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring. 
'  1  teadpoonfUl  arrowtwt      * 


428  cxnniDir  sesbk 

When  very  stiff,  heap  in  the  riiape  of  half  an  egg  apon 
stiff  letter-paper  lining  the  bottom  of  your  baking-pan. 
Have  them  half  an  inch  apart  Do  not  shut  the  oven- 
door  closely,  but  leave  a  space  through  which  you  can 
watch  them.  When  they  are  a  light  yellow-brown,  take 
them  out  and  cool  quickly.  Slip  a  thin-bladed  knife  under 
each;  scoop  out  the  soft  inside,  and  fill  with  cream 
whipped  as  for  Charlotte  Russe. 

They  are  very  fine.    The  oven  should  be  very  hot 

Calp's-Foot  Jelly. 

4  calfs  feet,  cleaned  carefully. 
4  quarts  of  water. 

1  pint  of  wine. 

3  cups  of  sugar— tjr  sweeten  to  tast& 
Whites  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  nutmeg. 

Juice  of  1  lemon,  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

Boil  the  calfs  feet  in  the  water  until  it  is  reduced  one 
half;  strain  the  liquor,  and  let  it  stand  ten  or  twelve 
hours.  Skim  off  every  particle  of  the  iat,  and  remove  the 
dregs ;  melt  slowly  in  a  porcelain  or  bell-metal  kettle,  add 
the  seasoning,  sugar,  and  the  whipped  whites  of  the  eggs, 
and  boil  fast  about  twelve  minutes,  skimming  well.  Strain 
through  a  double  flannel  bag  suspended  between  the  four 
legs  of  an  upturned  high  stool  or  backless  chair,  the  bowl 
set  beneath.  Do  not  squeeze  or  shake  it,  until  the  jelly 
ceases  to  run  freely;  then  slip  out  the  bowl,  and  put  under 
another,  into  which  you  may  gently  press  what  remains. 
The  first  will  be  the  clearer  jelly,  although  the  second 
dripping  will  taste  quite  as  well.  Wet  your  moulds,  put 
in  the  jelly,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

There  are  still  some  housekeepers  who  insist  that  the 


e,  BLiKc-MAKOEg,  Era  429 

modem  geladae  are  not  comparable 
to  those  prepared  from  the  geouiae 
iste  as  well  as  belief  with  them,  aod 
I  behold  the  beloved  feet,  they  know 
Grelstine,  they  will  darkly  and  dis- 
ide  of  hom-shavingB  and  hoofs  and 
i  fit  to  be  used  for  cooking  purposes 

gelatine  is  bo  clean,  bright,  and  con- 
vho  find  the  days  now  but  half  aa 
thers,  despite  labor-saving  machines, 

to  these  alarmists,  and  escape  the 
-described  by  using  the  valuable  Eub- 

ViNE  Jex.lt.  •{< 

r. 

—pale  Sherry  or  White. 

water. 

Ee's  gelatine. 

:mons  and  grated  peel  of  one. 

ling  water. 

)f  dnnamon. 

in  the  cold  water  one  hour.  Add  to 
,  and  cinnamon;  pour  over  all  a  quart 
stir  until  the  gelatine  is  thoroughly 
wine,  strain  through  a  double  flannel 
ig,  wet  your  moulds  with  cold  water, 
y  in  them  to  cooL 

TiDEB  Jelly,  -{i 

;he  receipt  just  given,  substituting  a 

der  for  the  wine. 


430  OOKMOK  8BNBS. 

Fever  patients  may  use  cider  jelly  when  wine  is  fo3> 
bidden,  and  they  will  find  this  both  refreshing  and  nutri- 
tious. 

Bird's  Nest  in  Jelly.  >t^ 

1  quart  of  jelly,  made  according  to  either  of  the  receipts 
just  given,  but  with  a  cup  less  of  boiling  water,  that 
it  may  be  very  firm. 

3  cups  of  white  blanc-mange. 

9  empty  eggshells. 

Fresh  rinds  of  two  oranges. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

Cut  the  rind  from  the  oranges  in  long  narrow^  strips, 
and  stew  these  gently  in  enough  water  to  cover  them  un- 
til they  are  tender.  Add  to  them  a  cup  of  sugar,  and 
simmer  fifteen  minutes  longer  in  the  syrup.  Lay  them 
out  upon  a  dish  to  cool,  taking  care  not  to  break  them. 
If  you  have  preserved  orange-peel  in  the  house,  it  will 
save  you  the  trouble  of  preparing  thb. 

The  blanc  mange  should  be  made  the  day  before  you 
want  it,  and  the  eggshells  filled.  The  original  contents, 
yolk  and  white,  should  be  poured  out  through  a  hole,  not 
larger  than  a  half-dime,  in  the  small  end,  and  the  interior 
washed  with  pure  water,  shaken  around  well  in  them. 
Then  fill  with  blanc-mange  and  set  in  a  pan  of  flour  or 
sugar — the  open  end  up — that  they  may  not.  be  jostled  or 
overturned. 

Next  morning  fill  a  glass  dish  two-thirds  full  of  the 
jelly,  which  should  be  very  clear,  reserving  a  large  cupful. 
Break  the  shells  from  about  the  blanc-mange,  and  lay  the 
artificial  eggs  upon  the  jelly  so  soon  as  the  latter  is  firm 
enough  to  bear  them.  Pile  them  neatly,  but  not  too  high 
in  the  middle,  bearing  in  mind  that  what  is  the  top  now 
will  be  the  bottom  when  the  jelly  is  turned  out  .  Lay  the 


CUSTARDS,  BIANC-ILUTOEB,  ETC- 

orange  peel  which  represents  straw,  over  these  and  art 
them.  Warm  the  raerved  jelly,  so  that  it  will 
readily,  but  do  not  get  it  hot ;  pour  over  the  straw 
eggs,  and  set  away  in  a  cold  place  to  form.  When  : 
turn  out  upon  a  glass  dish  or  ealver. 

This  pretty  and  fanciful  dish  is  yet  easily  made. 

materials  are  bo  simple  and  inexpenEive,  and  the  effet 

the  work,  if  deftly  done,  so  pleasing,  that  I  have  no 

tation  in  calling  the  attention  even  of  novices  to  it. 

Wine  Jelly  (boUed.) 

1  box  Coxe's  gelatine,  soaked  in  1  pint  of  cold  w 
one  hour. 

1  quart  of  boiling  water  poured  over  this,  and  sti 
until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved.  1}  lb.  white  suga 
2  lemons — juice  and  peel.  1  pint  of  wine. 

Put  all  over  the  fire,  boil  up  once  well,  and  et 
through  a  double  flannel  bag  into  moulds. 

Some  cooks  maintain  that  the  only  way  to  be  sur 
having  clear,  sparkling  jelly  is  to  boil  it,  and  in  clo 
weather  drop  in  the  white  or  shell  of  an  egg,  to  m 
assurance  doubly  sure. 

Orange  Jelly,  »f< 

2  oranges — juice  of  both  and  grated  rind  of  one 
1  lemon — juice  and  peel. 

1  packi^  Coxe's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  very  little  wi 

one  hour. 
1  quart  boiling  water- 
1}  cup  sugar,  and  1  small  cup  of  wine. 
1  good  pinch  of  cinnamon. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  the  fruit  into  a  bowl,  and 
with  them  the  grated  p3cl  and  the  cinnamon.  Pour  c 
tJiem  the  boiling  walar,  cover  olosoly,  and  let  them  st 


432  cosnroir  bsubb. 

half  an  hour.  Strain,  add  the  sugar,  let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
8tir  in  the  gelatine,  and,  when  this  is  well  dissolved,  take 
the  saucepan  from  the  fire.  Strain  through  a  double 
flannel  bag  into  moulds. 

Variegated  Jelly.  Hh 

1  quart  of  clear  jelly. 

i  teaspoonful  prepared  cochineal  or  red  currant  juice. 

1  cup  white  blanc* mange. 

Divide  the  jelly  into  two  equal  porUons,  and  color  one 
with  a  very  little  prepared  cochineal,  leaving  the  other  as 
it  id,  of  a  pale  amber.  Wet  a  mould  with  cold  water  and 
pour  in  a  little  of  the  latter.  Set  the  mould  in  the  ice, 
that  the  jelly  may  harden  quickly,  and  so  soon  as  it  is  firm 
pour  in  carefully  some  of  the  red.  Set  back  upon  the  ice 
to  get  ready  for  the  amber,  adding  the  two  colors  in  this 
order  until  you  arc  ready  for  the  base,  which  should  be 
wider  than  the  other  stripes,  and  consist  of  the  white 
blanc-mangc.  Keep  both  jelly  and  blanc-mange  near  the 
fire  until  you  have  filled  the  mould — I  mean,  of  course, 
that  intended  for  the  latest  layers.  Let  all  get  very  firm 
before  you  turn  it  out 

You  may  vary  two  moulds  of  this  jelly  by  having  the 
blanc-mange  base  of  one  colored  with  chocolate,  a  narrow 
white  stripe  above  relieving  the  grave  effect  of  the  brown. 

Ice-cream  and  other  Ices. 

If  you  wish  to  prepare  ice-cream  at  an  hour's  notice, 
you  cannot  do  better  than  to  purchase  the  best  patent 
freezer  you  can  procure.  I  had  one  once  which  would 
freeze  cream  admirably  in  half  an  hour.  I  have  forgotten 
the  patentee's  name,  and  perhaps  this  is  well  for  him, 
since  truth  would  oblige  me  to  record  an  unlucky  habit. 


ICE-GBEAH  ASm  OTHER  ICES.  433 

his  machine  had  of  getting  out  of  order  just  when  I  wanted 
it  to  do  its  best  My  earliest  recollections  of  ice-cream 
are  of  the  discordant  grinding  of  the  well-worn  freezer 
among  the  blocks  of  ice  packed  about  it — a  monotone  of 
misery,  that,  had  it  been  unrelieved  by  agreeable  associa- 
tions of  the  good  to  which  it  was  "  leading  up,"  would  not 
have  been  tolerated  out  of  Bedlam.  For  one,  two,  three, 
sometimes  four  hours,  it  went  on  without  other  variety 
than  the  harsher  sounds  of  the  fresh  ice  and  the  rattling 
"  swash  "  as  the  freezer  plunged  amid  the  icy  brine  when 
these  were  nearly  melted ;  without  cessation  save  when  the 
unhappy  operator  nodded  over  his  work,  or  was  relieved 
by  another  predestined  victim  of  luxury  and  ennui — a 
battalion  of  the  laziest  juveniles  upon  the  place  being  de- 
tailed for  this  purpose.  I  verily  believed  in  those  days 
that  the  freezing  could  not  be  fiicilitated  by  energetic  ac- 
tion, and  used  to  think  how  fortunate  it  was  that  small 
darkies  had  a  predilection  for  this  drowsy  employment. 
I  shall  never  forget  my  amazement  at  seeing  a  brisk  Yankee 
housewife  lay  hold  of  the  handle  of  the  ponderous  tin 
cylinder,  and  whirl  it  with  such  will  and  celerity,  back 
and  forth,  back  and  forth,  that  the  desired  end  came  to 
pass  in  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

That  day  has  gone  by.  Time  has  grown  too  precious 
now  even  to  juvenile  contrabands  for  them  to  sit  half  the 
day  shaking  a  freezer  under  the  locust-tree  on  the  old 
plantation  lawn.  Machines  that  will  do  the  work  in  one- 
tenth  of  the  time,  with  one-fiftieth  of  the  labor,  are  sold 
at  every  corner.  But,  so  far  as  I  know,  it  was  reserved 
for  a  nice  old  lady  up  in  the  "  Jersey  "  mountains — the 
tidiest,  thriftiest,  most  cheerful  bee  I  ever  knew — to  show 
her  neighbors  and  acquaintances  that  ice-cream  could  be 
made  to  freeze  itself  For  twelve  years  I  have  practised 
her  method,  with  such.  thankftilnesB  to  her,  and  such 
19 


n 


434  ooMMOsr  sense. 

satisfaction  to  my  guests  and  family,  that  I  eagerly  em- 
brace the  opportunity  of  circulating  the  good  news. 

Self*frebzinq  Ice>Cream.  *{« 

1  quart  rich  milk. 

8  egga — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very 
light. 

4  cups  sugar. 

3  pints  rich  sweet  cream. 

5  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  other  seasoning,  or  1  vanilla 
bean,  broken  in  two,  boiled  in  the  custard,  and  left 
in  until  it  is  cold. 

Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling,  beat  the  eggs  light,  add 
the  sugar,  and  stir  up  well.  Pour  the  hot  milk  to  this, 
little  by  little,  beating  all  the  while,  and  return  to  the  fire 
— boiling  in  a  pail  or  saucepan  set  within  one  of  hot  water. 
Stir  the  mixture  steadily  about  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  it 
is  thick  as  boiled  custard  Pour  into  a  bowl  and  set  aside 
to  cool.  When  quite  cold,  beat  in  the  cream,  and  the 
flavoring,  unless  you  have  used  the  bean. 

Have  ready  a  quantity  of  ice,  cracked  in  pieces  not 
larger  than  a  pigeon  egg — the  smaller  the  better.  You 
can  manage  this  easily  by  laying  a  great  lump  of  ice  be- 
tween two  folds  of  coarse  sacking  or  an  old  carpet,  tucking 
it  in  snugly,  and  battering  it,  through  the  cloth,  with  a 
sledge-hammer  or  mallet  until  fine  enough.  There  is  no 
waste  of  ice,  nor  need  you  take  it  in  your  hands  at  all — 
only  gather  up  the  corners  of  the  carpet  or  cloth,  and  slide 
as  much  as  you  want  into  the  outer  vessel.  Use  an  ordi- 
nary old-fashioned  upright  freezer,  set  in  a  deep  pail;  pack 
around  it  closely,  first,  a  layer  of  pounded  ice,  then  one  of 
rock  salt — common  salt  will  not  do  so  well.  In  this  order 
fill  the  pail ;  but  before  oovermg  the  freezer-lid,  remove  i(> 


ICS-CREAH  AND  OTHEB  ICES.  485 

carefully  that  none  of  the  salt  may  get  in,  and,  with  a  long 
wooden  ladle  or  flat  stick  (I  had  one  made  on  purpose), 
beat  the  custard  as  you  would  batter,  for  five  minutes, 
without  stay  or  stint.  Replace  the  lid,  pack  the  ice  and 
salt  upon  it,  patting  it  down  hard  on  top ;  cover  all 
with  several  folds  of  blanket  or  carpet,  and  leave  it  for  one 
hour.  Then  remove  the  cover  of  the  freezer  when  you 
have  wiped  it  carefully  outside.  You  will  find  within  a 
thick  coating  of  frozen  custard  upon  the  bottom  and  sides. 
Dislodge  this  with  your  ladle,  which  should  be  thin  at  the 
lower  end,  or  with  a  long  carving-knife,  working  every 
particle  of  it  clear.  Beat  again  hard  and  long  until  the 
custard  is  a  smooth,  half-congealed  paste.  The  smoothness 
of  the  ice-cream  depends  upon  your  action  at  this  juncture. 
Put  on  the  cover,  pack  in  more  ice  and  salt,  and  turn  off 
the  brine.  Spread  the  double  carpet  over  all  once  more, 
having  buried  the  freezer  out  of  sight  in  ice,  and  leave  it 
for  three  or  four  hours.  Then,  if  the  water  has  accumu- 
lated in  such  quantity  as  to  buoy  up  the  freezer,  pour  it 
off,  fill  up  with  ice  and  salt,  but  do  not  open  the  freezer.  In 
two  hours  more  you  may  take  it  from  the  ice,  open  it,  wrap 
a  towel,  wrung  out  in  boiling  water,  about  the  lower  part, 
and  turn  out  a  solid  column  of  cream,  firm,  close-grained, 
and  smooth  as  velvet  to  the  tongue. 

Should  the  ice  melt  very  fast,  you  may  have  to  turn  off 
the  water  more  than  twice ;  but  this  will  seldom  happen 
except  in  very  hot  weather.  You  need  not  devote  fifteen 
minutes  in  all  to  the  business  after  the  custard  is  made. 
You  may  go  into  the  cellar  before  breakfast,  having  made 
the  custard  overnight,  stir  in  the  cold  cream  and  flavoring, 
get  it  into  the  freezer  and  comfortably  packed  down  before 
^  John  has  finished  shaving,  and  by  choosing  the  times  for 
your  stolen  visits  to  the  lower  regions,  surprise  him  and 
the  children  at  a  one-o'clock  dinner  by  the  most  delicious 


436  COMMON  6XKBB. 

dessert  in  the  world.  I  have  often  laughed  in  my  sleeve 
at  seeing  my  John  walk  through  the  cellar  in  search  of 
some  mislaid  basket  or  box,  whistling  carelessly,  without 
a  suspicion  that  his  favorite  delicacj  was  coolly  working 
out  its  own  solidification  under  the  inverted  barrel  on 
which  I  chanced  to  be  leaning  at  his  entrance. 

Any  of  the  following  receipts  for  custard  ice-cream  may 
^  be  frozen  in  like  manner.  Do  not  spare  salt,  and  be  sure 
your  ice  is  finely  cracked,  and  after  the  second  beating  do 
not  let  the  air  again  into  the  freezer.  If  you  cannot  get 
dry  rock  salt,  that  which  settles  at  the  bottom  of  fish-bar- 
rels will  do  just  as  well.  Keep  the  freezer  hidden,  from 
first  to  last,  by  the  ice  heaped  over  it,  except  when  you 
have  to  lift  the  lid  on  the  occasions  I  have  specified. 

CHOCOLA.TE  ICE-CREAH.   >{« 

1  quart  of  cream. 

1  pint  new  milk. 

2  cups  sugar. 

2  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

6  tablespoonfuls  chocolate  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little 
milk. 

Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling,  and  pour,  by  degrees, 
in  with  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar.  8tir  in  the  chocolate, 
beat  well  three  minutes,  and  return  to  the  inner  kettle. 
Heat  until  it  thickens  well,  stirring  constantly;  take  from 
the  fire  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Many  think  a  little  vanilla 
an  improvement.  When  the  custard  is  cold,  beat  in  the 
cream.     Freeze. 

Almond  Ice-cream. 

3  oz.  sweet  almonds  and  1  oz.  of  bitter,  blanched,  and,  • 
when  cold,  pounded  to  a  paste,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  a 
Wedgewood  mortar,  adding 


ICE-CREAM  AND  OTHER  ICEB.  4S7 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  rose-water  to  prevent  oiling. 

3  pintd  cream — fresh  and  sweet 
Nearly  2  cups  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot,  wet  up  with  cold  water. 

Heat  one  pint  cream  almost  to  boiling,  add  the  sugar, 
and  when  this  is  melted,  the  almonds.  Simmer  ten  minutes, 
stirring  often,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  let  it  stand  to- 
gether ten  minutes  longer  in  a  covered  vessel.  Strain 
the  cream,  pressing  the  bag  hard  to  get  the  full  flavor  of 
the  almonds,  return  to  the  inner  saucepan  and  stir  in  the 
arrowroot  until  the  cream  thickens — say  five  minutes. 
When  cold,  beat  very  light  with  an  egg-whip,  adding 
gradually  the  rest  of  the  cream.  It  should  be  light  in 
half  an  hour.     Then  freeze. 

If  you  wish  to  mould  your  cream  in  fancy  shapes,  open 
your  freezer  two  hours  after  the  second  stirring  and  trans- 
fer the  cream  to  a  tight  mould,  having  given  it  a  third 
vigorous  beating.  Pack  this  down  in  ice  and  salt,  and 
let  it  stand  two  hours  longer  than  you  would  have  done 
had  it  remained  in  the  freezer. 

Coffee  Ice-cream. 

8  pints  of  cream. 

1  cup  of  black  cofiee — ^very  strong  and  clear. 

2  cups  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  arrowroot,  wet  up  with  cold  water. 

Heat  half  the  cream  nearly  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  sugar, 
and,  when  this  is  melted,  the  coffee;  then  the  arrowroot. 
Boil  all  together  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  When 
cold,  beat  up  very  light,  whipping  in  the  rest  of  the 
cream  by  degrees.    Then  freeze. 

I  cannot  say  certainly  that  this  can  be  frozen  without 


438  OOKMOV  BSKBE. 

turning,  althouj^h  I  see  no  reason  why  it  should  not,  since 
the'  arrowroot  gives  it  the  consistency  of  custard. 

ITA.LIAN  Cream.  >i< 

2  pints  of  cream. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

2  lemons— juice  and  grated  peeL 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy. 

Sweeten  the  cream  and  beat  in  the  lemons  gradually, 
not  to  curdle  it ;  add  the  brandy  and  freeze  in  a  patent 
freezer,  or  by  turning  quickly.  In  turning  the  freezer, 
open  twice  during  the  operation,  to  stir  and  beat  the  con- 
tents smooth. 

Lemok  Ic£-CR£AM.  >{< 

1  quart  cream. 

2  lemons — the  juico  of  one  and  the  grated  peel  of  one 
and  a  half. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

Sweeten  the  cream,  beat  the  lemon  gradually  into  it, 
and  put  at  once  into  the  freezer.  Freeze  rapidly  in  a 
patent  freezer,  or  the  acid  is  apt  to  turn  the  milk. 

You  may  make  orange  ice-cream  in  the  same  way. 

Pine-apple  Ice-cream.    Hh 

1  quart  of  cream. 

1  large  ripe  pine-apple. 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

Slice  the  pine-apple  thin,  and  scatter  the  sugar  between 
the  slices.  Cover  it,  and  let  the  fruit  steep  three  hours. 
Then  cut,  or  chop  it  up  in  the  syrup,  and  strain  it  through 
a  hair  sieve  or  bag  of  double  coarse  lace.  Beat  gradually 
into  the  cream,  and  freeze  as  rapidly  as  possible. 


)   OTHER   ICES. 


ke,  reserve  a  few  pieces  of  pineapple, 
iquare  bits,  and  stir  them  through  the 


4CH   lOE-CBEAM     >^ 

ter  the  preceding  receipt,  with  two  or 
^eshly  cut  bits  of  the  firuit  stirred  in 
ilf  frozen. 


F  loj 
ipe  sweet  berries. 

IT- 

resh  cream. 

Higar  over  the  berriee  and  let  them 
Press  and  mash  them,  and  strain  them 
lin  bag.  Add  the  rest  of  the  sugar, 
I  beat  in  the  cream  little  by  little, 
ing  the  freezer  (if  it  is  not  a  patent 

beat  and  stir. 

Or, 
t  of  whole  berries,  unsugared,  ready 
Team  U  frozeo  to  the  consisteocj  of 

case  add  a  cup  more  sugar  to  the 
ries. 

WITH  THE  FrDIT  FbOZBW  DJ,    »}■ 


cups  of  Bugar  beaten  up  with  the 
es,  cut  up  small,  or  fresh  ripe  berries. 
if  milk  almost  to  bcriling,  and  add 


440  COMMON  8E19BE. 

gradually  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  BUgar.  Whip  in  the 
frothed  whites,  return  to  the  custard-kettle,  and  stir  until 
it  is  a  thick,  soft  custard.  Let  it  get  perfectly  cold,  beat 
in  the  cream  and  freeze.  If  you  let  it  freeze  itself,  stir  in 
the  fruit  after  the  second  beating ;  if  you  turn  the  fireezefi 
when  the  custard  is  like  congealed  mush. 

TuTTi  Feutti  Ice-cream.  ^ 

1  pint  of  milk. 
1  quart  of  cream. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs — beaten  light  with  the  sugar. 
8  cups  of  sugar. 

1  lemon — juice  and  grated  peel. 
1  glass  of  pale  Sherry,  and  i  lb.  crystallized  fruits, 
chopped. 

Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling ;  pour  by  degrees  over 
the  eggs  and  sugar,  beating  all  together  well.  Return  to 
the  fire,  and  boil  ten  minutes,  or  until  set  into  a  good  cus- 
tard. When  cold,  beat  in  the  cream,  and  half  freeze  before 
you  stir  in  half  a  pound  of  crystallized  iruit — ^peaches, 
apricots,  cherries,  limes,  etc.,  chopped  very  fine.  Beat  in 
with  these'  the  lemon  and  wine ;  cover  again,  and  freeze 
hard. 

In  all  fruit  ice-creams  the  beating  of  the  custard  should 
be  very  hard  and  thorough,  if  you  would  have  them 
smooth. 

Lemon  Ice.  >f< 

6  lemons — ^juice  of  all,  and  grated  peel  of  three. 
1  large  sweet  orange — juice  and  rind. 
1  pint  of  water. 
1    "    of  sugar. 

.   Squeeae  out  every  drop  of  juice,  and  'steep  in  it  the  rind 


AM  AND  OTHEB   ICES.  441 

a  one  hour.  Strain,  squeezing  the 
ugar,  and  then  the  water.  Stir  until 

hj  turning  in  a  freeiser — opening 

up  together. 

teANOB  Ice.  ^ 

of  all,  and  grat«d  peel  of  three. 

ice  only. 

isBolred  in  1  pint  of  water. 

ae  you  vould  lemon  ioe. 

"iNEAPPLE  Ice. 

neapple — peeled  and  cut  smaU. 

ed  peel  of  1  lemon. 

r  a  little  leak 

ir  the  pineapple  and  let  it  stand  an 
together,  and  strain  out  the  syrup 
Add  the  water  and  freeze. 

Chbrrt  Ice. 

with  half  the  stonee  pounded  in  a 

mortar, 
ice  only. 

n  which  dissolve  1  pint  of  sugar, 
andy. 

ruised  oherriee  and  etonea,  in  a  bag 
the  wafer,  then   the  brandy,  and 

nger  time  to  freeze  than  other  ices, 
ndy. 


442  COHMOK  SRNBB. 

CuBHAirr  AND  Baspbebbt  Ice  {Fine.) 

1  quart  red  currants. 

1  pint  raspberries — red  or  white. 

1  pint  of  water. 

1}  "    of  sugar. 

Squeeae  out  the  juice ;  mix  in  the  sugar  and  water,  and 


Strawbebbt  OB  Raspbebbt  Iob. 

1  quart  berries.    Extract  the  juice  and  strain* 
1  pint  sugar — dissolved  in  the  juice. 
1  lemon— juice  only. 
}  pint  of  water. 

Vida's  Subpbibb. 

1  quart  of  fruit— strawberries,  or  raspberries,  or 
peaches,  or  bananas,  or  bananas  and  oranges  in  oombini^ 
tion — chopped  and  rubbed  through  a  cullender. 

1  cup  of  cold  water. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

Whites  of  three  eggs  (unbeaten). 
Mix  well  in  a  patent  freeser,  and  turn  the  crank  until 
the  mixture  is  froien. 
The  result  will  be  a  delightful  "surprise." 


RIPE  FRUIT  FOR  DESSERT. 
Saladb  d'Obakqe. 

Pare  and  slice  large  sweet  oranges ;  sprinkle  powdered 
sugar  thickly  over  each  slice,  and  pour  a  couple  of  glasses 


BIPB  FBUIT  FOB  t>BnEBTi 


443 


of  wine  on  the  top.    Sprinkle  powdered  tagar  oyer  all, 
and  serve  at  once. 

Do  not  let  any  fruit  intended  to  be  eaten  fresh  for 
dessert  lie  in  the  sugar  longer  than  is  absolutely  necessary. 
It  extracts  the  flavor  and  withers  the  pulp. 

Ambbobia. 

8  fine  sweet  oranges,  peeled  and  sliced. 
i  grated  cocoanut 
i  cup  powdered  sugar. 

Arrange  the  orange  in  a  glass  dish,  scatter  the  grated 
cocoanut  thickly  over  it,  sprinkle  this  lightly  with  sugar, 
and  cover  with  another  layer  of  orange.  Fill  up  the  dish 
in  this  order,  having  cocoanut  and  sugar  for  the  top  layer. 
Berve  at  once. 


Roman  Ambbosia 

18  made  by  adding  to  the  above  combination  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  best  Jamaica  rum.  A  pleasant  variation  is 
gained  by  substituting  sliced  bananas  for  the  cocoanut, 
sprinkling  sugar  between  the  layers,  and  pouring  on  the 
rum  at  table  just  before  helping  out  the  dessert.  After 
the  fruit  is  sliced  and  sugared  keep  on  ice  until  served. 

Apples. 

Wash  and  polish  with  a  clean  towel,  and  pile  in  a  china 
fruit-basket,  with  an  eye  to  agreeable  variety  of  color. 

Peaches  and  Peabs. 

Pick  out  the  finest,  handling  as  little  as  may  be,  and 
pile  upon  a  salver  or  flat  dish,  with  bits  of  ice  between 
them,  and  ornament  with  peach  leaves  or  fennel  sprigs. 


444  OOXMOK  SEXtse. 

Send  around  powdered  Bugar  with  the  fruit,  as  man  j 
like  to  dip  peaches  and  pears  in  it  after  paring  and  quar- 
tering theoL 

Strawberries,  Baspbebribs,  and  Blackberries. 

Never  wash  strawberries  or  raspberries  that  are  in- 
tended to  be  eaten  as  fresh  fruit.  If  they  are  so  gritt j  as 
to  require  this  process,  keep  them  off  the  table.  You  will 
certainly  ruin  the  flavor  beyond  repair  if  you  wash  them, 
and  as  certainly  induce  instant  fermentation  and  endan- 
ger the  coats  of  the  eaters'  stomachs,  if,  after  profaning 
the  exquisite  delicacy  of  the  fruit  to  this  extent,  you  com- 
plete the  evil  work  by  covering  them  with  sugar,  and 
leaving  them  to  leak  their  lives  sourly  away  for  one  or 
two  hours. 

Put  them  on  the  table  in  glass  dishes,  piling  them  high 
and  lightly,  send  around  powdered  sugar  with  them 
and  cream,  that  the  guests  may  help  themselves.  It  is 
not  economical  perhaps,  but  it  is  a  healthful  and  pleasant 
style  of  serving  them — I  had  almost  said  the  only  de- 
cent one. 

"But  1  don't  know  who  picked  them  I''  cries  Mrs. 
Fussy. 

No,  my  dear  madam  I  nor  do  you  know  who  makes 
the  baker's  bread,  or  confectioner's  cakes,  creams,  jellies, 
salads,  etc.  Nor,  for  that  matter,  how  the  flour  is  manu- 
factured out  of  which  you  conjure  your  dainty  biscuit  and 
pies.  I  was  so  foolish  as  to  go  into  a  floui>mill  once,  and 
having  seen  a  burly  negro,  naked  to  the  waist,  with  his 
trousers  rolled  up  to  his  knees,  stand  in  a  bank  of  ''fine 
family  flour,"  a  foot  deep  in  the  lowest  part,  on  a  July 
day,  shovelling  it  into  barrels  for  the  market,  I  rushed 
into  the  outer  air  a  sicker  and  a  wiser  woman. 

I  know  God  made  strawberries.     "  Doubtless,"  says 


PRESERVES  AKD  FRUIT  JELUEd.  445 

Bishop  Butler,  '^  He  could  have  made  a  better  berry,  bat 
He  never  did ! ''  The  picker's  light  touch  canuot  mar 
flavor  or  beauty,  nor,  were  her  fingers  filthy  as  a  chimney- 
sweep's, could  the  delicate  fruit  sufiTer  from  them  as  from 
your  barbarous  baptism.  You  would  like  to  know  who 
picked  them.  I  should  inquire  instead,  "  Who  washed 
them,  and  in  what?''  I  recollect  seeing  a  housekeeper, 
who  was  afflicted  with  your  inquiring  turn  of  mind,  wash 
strawberries  in  a  wash-hand  basin ! 

CuRRAirrs  AND  Raspberries. 

Pick  the  currants  from  the  stems,  and  mix  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  raspberries.  Put  into  a  glass  bowl,  and 
eat  with  powdered  sugar. 

Frosted  Currants. 

Pick  fine  even  bunches,  and  dip  them,  one  at  a  time, 
into  a  mixture  of  frothed  white  of  egg,  and  a  very  little 
cold  water.  Drain  them  until  nearly  dry,  and  roll  in 
pulverized  sugar  Repeat  thd  dip  in  the  sugar  once  or 
twice,  and  lay  them  upon  white  paper  to  dry.  They 
make  a  beautiful  garnish  for  jellies  or  charlottes,  and  look 
well  heaped  in  a  dish  by  themselves  or  with  other  fruit. 

Plums  and  grapes  are  very  nice  frosted  in  the  same 
way. 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES. 

Use  none  but  porcelain,  or  good  bell-metal  kettles  for 
preserves  and  jellies.  If  the  latter,  clean  thoroughly  just 
before  you  put  in  the  syrup  or  fruit.  Scour  with  sand, 
(hen  set  it  over  the  fire,  with  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  a 
large  handful  of  salt  in  it.     Let  this  come  to  a  boil,  and 


446  OOMMON  8SN8B. 

scour  the  whole  of  the  inside  of  the  kettle  with  it.  Do 
not  let  your  preserves  or  anything  else  stand  one  moment 
in**it  ailer  it  is  withdrawn  from  the  fire;  fill  the  emptied 
kettle  instantly  with  water  and  wash  it  perfectly  clean , 
although  you  may  mean  to  return  the  syrup  to  it  again  in 
five  minutes.  By  observing  these  precautions,  preserves 
and  pickles  made  in  bell-metal  may  be  rendered  as  good 
and  wholesome  as  if  the  frailer  porcelain  be  used. 

Use  only  fine  sugar  for  nice  preserves.  Moist  or  dark 
sugar  cannot  be  made  to  produce  the  same  efiect  as  dry 
white. 

Do  not  hurry  any  needful  step  in  the  process  of  preserv- 
ing. Prepare  your  fruit  with  care,  weigh  accurately,  and 
allow  time  enough  to  do  your  work  well.  Put  up  the  pre- 
serves in  small  jars  in  preference  to  large,  and,  when  once 
made,  keep  them  in  a  cool,  dark  closet  that  is  perfectly 
dry.  Keep  jellies  in  small  stone  china  jars,  or  glass  tum- 
blers closely  covered.  You  can  procure  at  most  china 
and  glass  stores,  or  house-furnishing  establishments,  metal 
covers  with  elastic  rims  for  these,  which  can  be  used  from 
year  to  year. 

Cover  jellies  and  jams  with  tissue  paper,  double  and 
wet  with  brandy,  pressed  closely  to  the  conserve  before 
you  put  on  the  lid,  or  paste  on  the  thick  paper.  Examine 
your  shelves  frequently  and  narrowly  for  a  few  weeks  to 
see  if  your  preserves  are  keeping  well.  If  there  is  the 
least  sign  of  fermentation,  boil  them  over,  adding  more 
sugar. 

If  jellies  are  not  so  firm  after  six  or  eight  hours  as  you 
would  have  them,  set  them  in  the  sun,  with  bits  of  window 
glass  over  them  to  keep  out  the  dust  and  insects.  Remove 
these  at  night  and  wipe  off  the  moisture  collected  on  the 
under  sides.  Repeat  this  every  day  until  the  jelly  shrinks 
into  firmness,  filling  up  one  cup  from  another  as  need  re* 


PRESEBYE8  AND  FRUIT  JELLIEd.  44*7 

quires.     This  method  is  far  preferable  to  boiling  down, 
which  both  injures  the  flavor  and  darkens  the  jelly.     ^ 

Preserved  Peaches.  >}< 

Weigh  the  fruit  after  it  is  pared  and  the  stones  ex- 
tracted, and  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  one  of 
peaches.  Crack  one-quarter  of  the  stones,  extract  the 
kernels,  break  them  to  pieces  and  boil  in  just  enough  wa- 
ter to  cover  them,  until  soft,  when  set  aside  to  steep  in  a 
covered  vessel.  Put  a  layer  of  sugar  at  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle,  then  one  of  fruit,  and  so  on  until  you  have  used  up 
all  of  both ;  set  it  where  it  will  warm  slowly  until  the  su- 
gar is  melted  and  the  fruit  hot  through.  Then  strain  the 
kernel -water  and  add  it  Boil  steadily  until  the  peaches 
are  tender  and  clear.  Take  them  out  with  a  perforated 
skimmer  and  lay  upon  large  flat  dishes,  crowding  as  little 
as  possible.  Boil  the  syrup  almost  to  a  jelly — that  is, 
until  clear  and  thick,  skimming  ofl*  all  the  scum.  Fill 
your  jars  two-thirds  full  of  the  peaches,  pour  on  the  boil- 
ing syrup,  and,  when  cold,  cover  with  brandy  tissue-paper, 
then  with  cloth,  lastly  with  thick  paper  tied  tightly  over 
them. 

The  peaches  should  be  ready  to  take  ofl*  after  half  an 
hour's  boiling;  the  syrup  be  boiled  fifteen  minutes  longer, 
fcLut,  and  often  stirred,  to  throw  up  the  scum.  A  few 
slices  of  pineapple  cut  up  with  the  peaches  flavor  them 
finely. 

Preserved  Pears 

Are  put  up  precisely  as  are  peaches,  but  are  only  i)ared, 
not  divided.    Leave  the  stems  on. 

Peacobc  Marmalade.  >J< 
Pare,  stone,  and  weigh  the  fruit ;  heat  slowly  to  draw 


448  OOMXOK  8EK8B. 

out  the  juice,  stirring  up  often  from  the  bottom  with  a 
wottdien  spoon.  After  it  is  hot,  boil  quickly,  still  stirring, 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Add,  then,  the  sugar,  allowing 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  to  each  pound  of  the  fruit.  Boil 
up  well  for  five  minutes,  taking  off  every  particle  of  scum. 
Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  for  every  three  pounds  of  fruit 
and  a  very  little  water  in  which  one-fourth  of  the  kernels 
have  been  boiled  and  steeped.  Stew  all  together  ten  min- 
utes, stirring  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  take  from  the  fire. 
Put  up  hot  in  air-tight  cans,  or,  when  cold,  in  small  stone  or 
glass  jars,  with  brandied  tissue-paper  fitted  neatly  to  the 
surface  of  the  marmalade. 

A  large,  ripe  pineapple,  pared  and  cut  up  fine,  and 
stirred  with  the  peaches,  is  a  fine  addition  to  the  flavor. 

PRB8EEVED   QUIKCEB.    ^ 

Choose  fine  yellow  quinces.  Pare,  quarter,  and  core 
them,  saving  both  skins  and  cores.  Put  the  quinces  over 
the  fire  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  simmer 
until  they  are  soft,  but  not  until  they  begin  to  break. 
Take  them  out  carefully,  and  spread  them  upon  broad 
dishes  to  cool.  Add  the  parings,  seeds,  and  cores,  to  the 
water  in  which  the  quinces  were  boiled,  and  stew,  closely 
covered,  for  an  hour.  Strain  through  a  jelly-bag,  and  to 
every  pint  of  this  liquor  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  up 
and  skim  it,  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 
Take  all  from  the  fire  and  pour  into  a  large  deep  pan. 
Cover  closely  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Drain 
off  the  syrup  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  put  in  the  quinces 
carefully  and  boil  another  quarter  of  an  hour.  Take  them 
up  as  dry  as  possible,  and  again  spread  out  upon  dishes, 
setting  these  in  the  hottest  sunshine  you  can  find.  Boil 
the  syrup  until  it  begins  to  jelly ;  fill  the  jars  two-thirds 


PRflBERVfiS  AND  PRI7TT  •  JELLIES.  449 

fiill  and  cover  with  the  syrup.  The  preserves  should  be 
of  a  fine  red.     Cover  with  brandied  tissue-paper. 

Preserved  Apples. 

Firm,  well-flavored  pippins  or  bell-flower  apples  make 
an  excellent  preserve,  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as 
quinces.  A  few  quinces  cut  up  among  them,  or  the  juice 
of  two  lemons  to  every  three  pounds  of  fruit  improves 
them. 

Quince  Marmalade.  >I< 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  the  quinces,  stewing  the  skins,  cores, 
and  seed  in  a  vessel  by  themselves,  with  just  enough  water 
to  cover  them.  When  this  has  simmered  long  enough  to 
extract  all  the  flavor,  and  the  parings  are  broken  to  pieces, 
strain  off  the  water  through  a  thick  cloth.  Put  the 
quinces  into  the  preserve-kettle  when  this  water  is'  almost 
cold,  pour  it  over  them  and  boil,  stirring  and  mashing  the 
fruit  with  a  wooden  spoon  as  it  becomes  soft.  The  juice 
of  two  oranges  to  every  three  pounds  of  the  fruit  imparts 
an  agreeable  flavor.  When  you  have  reduced  all  to  a 
smooth  paste,  stir  in  a  scant  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  for  every  pound  of  fruit;  boil  ten  minutes  more, 
stirring  constantly.  Take  off,  and  when  cool  put  into 
small  jars,  with  brandied  papers  over  them. 

Quince  Cheese 

Is  marmalade  boiled  down  very  thick,  packed  into  small 
pots.  It  ^vill  turn  out  as  firm  as  cheese,  and  can  be  cut 
in  slices  for  luncheon  or  tea. 

Apple  Butter. 

This  is  generally  made  by  the  large  quantity. 

Boil  down  a  kettleful  of  cider  to  two- thirds  the  original 


450  OOXMOK  BEHBS.  • 

quantity.  Pare,  core,  and  slice  juicy  apples,  and  pat  as 
luauy  into  the  cider  as  it  will  cover.  Boil  slowly,  stirring 
often  with  a  flat  stick,  and  when  the  apples  are  tender  to 
breaking,  take  them  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  drain- 
ing well  against  the  sides  of  the  kettle.  Put  in  a  second 
supply  of  apples  and  stew  them  soft,  as  many  as  the  cider 
will  hold.  Take  from  the  fire,  pour  all  together  into  a  tub 
or  large  crock ;  cover  and  let  it  stand  twelve  hours.  Then 
return  to  the  kettle  and  boil  down,  stirring  all  the  while 
until  it  is  the  consistency  of  soft  soap,  and  brown  in  color. 
You  may  spice  to  taste  if  you  please. 

Keep  in  stone  jars  in  a  dry,  cool  place.  It  should  keep 
all  vrinter. 

Preserved  Crab-apples.  >}< 

The  red  Siberian  crab  is  best  for  this  purpose.  Pick 
out  those  that  are  nearly  perfect,  leaving  the  stems  <m^  and 
put  into  a  preserve-kettle,  with  enough  warm  water  to 
cover  them.  Heat  this  to  boiling,  slowly,  and  simmer 
until  the  skins  break.  Drain,  cool,  and  skin  them  ;  then, 
with  a  penknife,  extract  the  cores  through  the  blossom 
ends.  Weigh  them  ;  allow  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
sugar  and  a  teacupful  of  water  to  every  pound  of  fruit. 
Boil  the  water  and  sugar  together  until  the  scum  ceases 
to  rise;  put  in  the  fruit,  cover  the  kettle,  and  simmer 
until  the  apples  are  a  clear  red,  and  tender.  Take  out 
with  a  skimmer ;  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool  and  harden ; 
add  to  the  syrup  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  three  pounds  of 
fruit,  and  boil  until  clear  and  rich.  Fill  your  jars  three- 
quarters  full  of  the  apples,  pour  the  syrup  in,  and,  when 
oool,  tie  up. 

Preserved  Green-oaoeb  and  Large  Purple 

PLUBiS.  >J< 

inTeigh  the  firuit  and  scald  in  boiling  water  to  make 


A.VD   FBUIT  JELLIBB.  401 

\  Let  them  stand  in  a  large  bowl 
peeled,  that  the  juice  may  exude. 
1  pluma  in  the  kettle,  alternately 
owing  pound  for  pound ;  pour  the 
beat  slowly  to  a  boil.  Take  out 
very  carefully,  with  a  perforated 
well  through  it,  and  spread  upon 
Boil  the  syrup  until  thick  and 
fully.  Return  the  plums  to  this. 
Spread  out  again  until  cool  and 
hot  on  the  fire,  fill  your  jars  three- 
lit;  pour  on  the  scalding  syrup, 
ht,  and,  when  cold,  tie  up. 

Or, 
ce  the  trouble  of  peeling  the  fruit, 
cea  with  a  needle,  and  proceed  as 


.  -J* 

nbers,  a  little  longer  than  your 
in  strong  brine  one  week.  Wash 
d  a  night  in  fair  water,  changing 

bell-metal  kettle  with  vine-leaves, 
ith  a  little  alum  scattered  among 
ar  water ;  cover  with  vine-leaves, 
id  green  as  for  pickles.     Do  not 

well  greened,  drop  in  ice-water, 
ipe,  and  with  a  small  knife  sltt 
the  seeds ;  stuff  with  a  mixture  ol 
'on;  sew  up  the  incision  with  fine 
,  and  make  a  syrup,  allowing  a 
ry  one  of  cucumbers,  with  a  pint 
ively  boil,  ikim,  and  drop  in  tlie 


462  ooicMOir  sense. 

fruit  Simmer  half  an  hour,  take  out  and  spread  upon 
a  dish  in  the  sun  while  you  boil  down  the  sjrup,  with  a 
few  slices  of  ginger-root  added.  When  thick,  put  in  the 
cucumbers  again ;  simmer  five  minutes  and  put  up  in  glass 
jars ;  tying  them  up  when  cold. 

Damsons 

Are  put  up  in  the  same  manner  as  plums,  but  pricked 
instead  of  skinned. 

Preserved  Orange  Peel.  (Fcrynioc)  >I< 

Weigh  the  oranges  whole,  and  allow  pound  for  pound. 
Peel  the  oranges  neatly  and  cut  the  rind  into  narrow 
shreds.  Boil  until  tender,  changing  the  water  twice,  and 
replenishing  with  hot  from  the  kettle.  Squeeze  the  drained 
juice  of  the  oranges  over  the  sugar;  let  this  heat  to  a  boil; 
put  in  the  shreds  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 

Lemon  peel  can  be  preserved  in  the  same  way,  allowing 
more  sugar. 

Oranoe  Marmalade.  >{< 

Allow  pound  for  pound.  Pare  half  the  oranges  and  out 
the  rind  into  shreds.  Boil  in  three  waters  until  tender, 
and  set  aside.  Grate  the  rind  of  the  remaining  oranges ; 
take  off  and  throw  away  every  bit  of  the  thick  white  inner 
skin;  quarter  all  the  oranges  and  take  out  the  seeds. 
Chop,  or  cut  them  into  small  pieces ;  drain  all  the  juice 
that  will  come  away,  without  pressing  them,  over  the 
sugar;  heat  this,  stirring  until  the  sugar  b  dissolved, 
adding  a  very  little  water,  unless  the  oranges  are  very 
juicy.  Boil  and  skim  five  or  six  minutes;  put  in  the 
boiled  shreds,  and  cook  ten  minutes ;  then  the  chopped 
fruit  and  grated  peel,  and  boil  twenty  minutes  longer. 
When  cold,  put  into  small  jars,  tied  up  with  bladder  or 


PBE8ERVE8  AND.FBHIT  JELLIES.  463 

with  paper  next  the  fruit,  cloths  dipped  in  wax  over  all. 
A  nicer  way  still  is  to  put  away  in  tumblers  with  self- 
adjusting  metal  tops.  Press  brandied  tissue-paper  down 
closely  to  the  fruit. 

Lemon  Mabmalade. 

Is  made  as  you  would  prepare  orange — allowing  a  pound 
and  a  quarter  of  sug^  to  a  pound  of  the  fruit,  and  using 
but  half  the  grated  peel. 

Presebved  Pineapple.  ^ 

Pare,  cut  into  slices,  take  out  the  core  of  each  one,  and 
weigh,  allowing  pound  for  pound  of  sugar  and  fruit.  Put 
in  alternate  layers  in  the  kettle  and  pour  in  water,  allow- 
ing a  teacupful  to  each  pound  of  sugar.  Heat  to  a  boil ; 
take  out  the  pineapple  and  spread  upon  dishes  iu  the  sun. 
Boil  and  skim  the  syrup  half  an  hour.  Return  the  pine- 
apple to  the  kettle  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Take  it  out, 
pack  in  wide-mouthed  jars,  pour  on  the  scalding  syrup ; 
coyer  to  keep  in  the  heat,  and,  when  cold,  tie  up,  first 
putting  brandied  tissue-paper  upon  the  top. 


Pineapple  Mabkaladb. 

Pare,  slice,  core,  and  weigli  the  pineapple;  then  cut 
into  small  bits.  Make  a  syrup  of  a  teacup  of  water  to  two 
pounds  of  sugar;  melt,  and  heat  to  a  boil.  Heat  the 
chopped  pineapple  in  a  vessel  set  within  one  of  boiling 
water,  covering  it  closely  to  keep  in  the  flavor.  When  it 
is  smoking  hot  all  through,  and  begins  to  look  clear,  add 
to  the  syrup.  Boil  together  half  an  hour,  stirring  all  the 
while,  or  uQtil  it  is  a  clear,  bright  paste» 


4&4  OOMMON  SKNfllB. 

PfiESERVED  CtTBON  OR  WaTER  MELON  RiKD. 

Pare  off  the  green  skin,  and  the  soft,  white,  inner 
rind.  Cut  into  strips  or  into  fanciful  shapes.  Allow  a 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  rind. 
Line  your  kettle  with  vine -leaves  and  fill  with  the  rind, 
scattering  a  little  pulverized  alum  over  each  layer.  Cover 
with  vine-leaves,  three  thick;  pour  on  water  enough  to 
reach  and  wet  these,  and  lay  a  close  lid  on  the  top  of  the 
kettle.  Let  all  steam  together  for  three  hours;  but  the 
water  must  not  actually  boil.  Take  out  your  rind,  which 
should  be  well  greened  by  this  process,  and  throw  at  once 
into  very  cold  water.  It  should  lie  in  soak,  changing  the 
water  every  hour,  for  four  hours. 

For  the  syrup,  allow  two  cups  of  water  to  a  pound  and 
a  quarter  of  sugar.  Boil,  and  skim  it  until  no  more  scum 
comes  up ;  put  in  the  rind,  and  simmer  gently  nearly  an 
hour.  Take  it  out,  and  spread  upon  dishes  in  the  sun 
until  firm  and  almost  cool  Simmer  in  the  syrup  for  half 
an  hour ;  spread  out  again,  and,  when  firm,  put  into  a 
large  bowl,  and  pour  over  it  the  scalding  syrup. 

Twelve  hours  later  put  the  syrup  again  over  the  fire, 
adding  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  tiny  strip  of  ginger- 
root  for  every  poand  of  rind.  Boil  down  until  thick;  pack 
the  rind  in  jars  and  pour  over  it  the  syrup.  Tie  up  when 
cool. 

A  very  handsome  sweetmeat,  although  rather  insipid  in 
flavor.  The  reader  can  judge  whether,  as  the  charity  boy 
said  of  the  alphabet,  and  the  senior  Weller  of  matrimony, 
it  is  worth  while  to  go  through  so  much  and  get  so  little. 

Preserved  Ginger.  >{< 

Pare  the  roots  of  fresh  green  ginger  and  lay  in  oold 
water  fifteen  minutea.    Boil  in  three  waters,  dianging  the 


FBESEBVEB  AND   FRUIT  JELLIES.  45S 

hot  for  cold  every  time,  until  very  tender  ;  drain,  and  lay 
in  ice-water.  For  the  syrup,  allow  a  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  sugar  for  every  pound  of  ginger,  and  a  cupful  of  water 
for  each  pound  of  sugar.  Boil,  and  skim  until  the  scum 
ceases  to  rise.  When  the  syrup  is  cold,  wipe  the  ginger 
dry  and  drop  it  in.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Drain 
off  and  reheat  the  syrup.  This  time  put  the  ginger  iq 
when  blood  warm.  Do  not  look  at  it  again  for  two  days. 
Then  reboil  the  syrup,  and  pour  over  the  ginger  scalding 
hot.  In  a  week  drain  off  once  more,  boil,  and  add  again 
while  hot  to  the  ginger ;  cover  closely.  It  will  be  fit  for 
use  in  a  fortnight 

Preserved  Cherries.  >J< 

Stone  the  cherries,  preserving  every  drop  of  juice.  Weigh 
the  fruit,  allowing  pound  for  pound  of  sugar.  Put  a  layer 
of  fruit  for  one  of  sugar  until  all  is  used  up  ;  pour  over  the 
juice  and  boil  gently  until  the  syrup  begins  to  thicken. 

The  short-stem  red  cherries,  or  the  Morellas  are  best  for 
preserves.    Sweet  cherries  will  not  do. 

Preserved  Strawberries.  >}< 

Pound  for  pound.  Put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  over 
a  slow  fire  until  the  sugar  melts.  Boil  twenty-five  minutes, 
fast.  Take  out  the  fruit  in  a  perforated  skimmer  and  fill 
a  number  of  small  cans  three-quarters  full.  Boil  and  skim 
the  syrup  five  minutes  longer,  fill  up  the  jars,  and  seal 
while  hot. 

Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Strawberry  Jam.  ^ 

For  every  pound  of  fruit  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 

sugar. 
1  pint  red  currant  juice  to  every  4  pounds  strawberries. 


456  COMMOK  8B1I8E. 

Boil  the  juice  of  the  currants  with  the  strawberries  half 
an  hoar,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  the  sugar  when  you 
have  dipped  out  nearly  all  the  juice,  leaving  the  fruit 
quite  dry,  and  boil  up  rapidly  for  about  twenty  minutes, 
skimming  carefully.  Put  in  small  jais,  with  brandied  tis- 
sue-paper oyer  the  top. 

You  can  omit  the  currant  juice,  but  the  flavor  will  not 
be  so  fine. 

Raspbesby  Jam.  >}< 

I  lb.  of  sugar  to  every  lb.  fruit. 
Put  the  fruit  on  alone,  or  with  the  addition  of  a  pint  of 
currant  juice  to  every  four  pounds  of  fruit  Boil  half  an 
hour,  mashing  and  stirring  well.  Dip  out  most  of  the 
boiling  juice  before  adding  sugar,  and  cook  twenty  minutes 
more.  Blackberry  jam  is  very  nice  made  as  above,  leaving 
out  the  currant  juice. 

Gooseberry  Jam 

Is  made  in  the  same  n>anner  as  raspberry,  only  the  cur- 
rant juice  is  omitted,  and  the  gooseberries  boiled  one  hour 
without  the  fruit,  and  another  after  it  is  put  in.  The 
fruit  must  be  ripe. 

Ripe  Tomato  Preserves.  ^ 

7  lbs.  round  yellow,  or  egg  tomatoes — -peeled, 
7  lbs.  sugar,  and  juice  of  three  lemons. 

Let  them  stand  together  over  night.  Drain  off  the  syrup 
and  boil  it,  skimming  well.  Put  in  the  tomatoes  and  boil 
gently  twenty  minutes.  Take  out  the  fruit  with  a  perfo- 
rated skimmer,  and  spread  upon  dishes.  Boil  the  syrup 
down  until  it  thickens,  adding,  just  before  you  take  it  up, 
the  juice  of  three  lemons.  Put  the  fruit  into  the  jars  and 
fill  up  with  hot  syrup.     When  cold,  seal  or  tie  up. 


BESEBTEa   AJST)   FBIHT   JELLQS.  407 

EN  Tomato  Pkesertes.  {Oood.) 

M  greeD  tomatoes.  Pierce  each  with  ft  fork. 

;ar. 

—the  juice  only. 

^r  and  mace  mixed' 

ogetber  slowly,  and  boil  until  the  fruit  is 
it  from  the  kettle  in  a  perforated  skimmer, 
poa  dishes  to  cool.  Boil  the  syrup  thick, 
into  jars  and  cover  with  hot  syrup- 

Pbbserved  Fiob.  >J« 
he  weight  of  ripe  figs  in  sugar, 
eel  of  one  lemon  and  juice  of  two. 
.  little  ganger. 

igs  with  cold  water  for  twelve  hours.  Then 
ter  enough  to  cover  them  until  tender,  and 
ipon  a  sieve  to  cool  and  harden.  Make  a 
I  sugar,  and  a  cup  of  cold  water  £>r  every 
until  clear  of  scum ;  put  in  the  figs  and 
ninutea.  Take  them  out  and  spread  upon 
3un.  Add  the  lemons  and  ginger ;  boil  the 
give  the  figs  another  boil  of  fifteen  minutes, 
irs  three-quarters  of  the  way  to  the  top.  Fill 
ag  Byrup,  cover,  and,  when  cold,  seal  up. 

Baked  Apples.  >!■ 
3  blossom  end  of  sweet  apples — Campfielda 
eete — with  a  sharp  penknife;  wash,  hut  do 
a ;  pack  them  in  a  large  pudding-dish ;  pour 
Bter  in  the  bottom,  cover  closely  with  another 
set  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  steam  until  ten- 
gh.    Pour  the  liquor  over  them  while  bf- 


458  ooMMOK  dfiimfi. 

and  repeat  this  as  they  cool.  Set  on  the  ice  several  hours 
before  tea,  and,  when  you  are  ready,  transfer  them  to 
a  glass  dish,  pouring  the  juice  over  them  again.  Eat 
with  powdered  sugar  and  cream.  Apples  baked  in  this 
way  are  more  tender  and  digestible,  and  better  flavored, 
than  those  baked  in  an  open  vessel.  Campfields  are 
particularly  good. 

Apples  Stewed  Whole.  >}< 

Pare,  and  with  a  small  knife  extract  the  cores  of  fine 
juicy  apples  that  are  uot  too  tart ;  put  into  a  deep  dish 
with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them;  cover  and  bake,  or 
stew,  in  a  moderate  oven,  until  they  are  tender  and  dear; 
take  out  the  apples,  put  in  a  bowl,  and  cover  to  keep  hot; 
put  the  juice  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  cupfiil  of  sugar  for 
twelve  apples,  and  boil  half  an  hour.  Season  with  maoe, 
ginger,  or  whole  cloves,  adding  the  spice  ten  minutes  be- 
fore you  remove  the  syrup  from  the  fire>  Pour  scalding 
over  the  apples,  and  cover  until  cold. 

Eat  with  cream. 

Baked  Pears. 

Sweet  pears  may  be  baked  just  as  sweet  apples  are — 
i,  c,  steamed  without  being  pared  or  cored. 

Or, 

If  large,  cut  in  half,  put  into  a  deep  dish,  with  a  very 
little  water;  sprinkle  them  with  sugar,  and  put  a  few 
cloves,  or  bits  of  cinnamon,  or  a  pinch  of  ginger  among 
ihem.    Cover  closely,  and  bake  until  tender. 

Stewed  Pears.  >{< 
If  small  and  ripe,  cut  out  the  blossom-end,  without 
paring  or  coring ;  put  into  a  saucepan,  with  enough  water 
to  cover  them,  and  stew  until  tender ;  add  a  half  cupful 


of  sugar  for  every  quart  of  pears,  and  stew  all  together 

ten  minutes ;  take  out  the  pears,  lay  in  a  covered  bowl  to 

keep  warm;  add  to  the  syrup  a  little  ginger  or  a  few 

cloves*  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer,  and  pour  over  the 

fruit  hot. 

Or. 

If  the  pears  are  not  quite  ripe,  but  hard  and  disposed  to 
be  tough,  peel  them,  cut  out  the  blossom-end,  leaving  on 
the  stems,  and  stew  until  tender  in  enough  water  to  cover 
them.  Take  them  out,  set  by  in  a  covered  dish  to  keep 
warm ;  add  to  the  liquor  in  the  saucepan  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  the  best  molasses  and  a  little  ginger ;  boil  half  an 
hour,  skim,  and  return  the  pears  to  the  saucepan.  Stew 
all  together  twenty  minutes,  and  pour  out. 

These  are  very  good,  and  will  keep  a  week  or  more, 
even  in  warm  weather.  I  have  canned  them  while  boil- 
ing hot,  and  kept  them  sweet  a  whole  year. 

Baked  Quinces. 

Pare  and  quarter ;  extract  the  seeds  and  stew  the  fruit 
in  clear  water  until  a  straw  will  pierce  them ;  put  into  a 
baking-dish  with  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  to  every  eight 
quiuces;  pour  over  them  the  liquor  in  which  they  were 
boiled ;  cover  closely,  and  steam  in  the  oven  one  hour ; 
take  out  the  quinces,  lay  them  in  a  covered  bowl  to  keep 
warm  ;  return  the  syrup  to  the  saucepan,  and  boil  twenty 
minutes;  pour  over  the  quinces,  and  set  away  covered,  to 
cool.    Eat  cold. 


FRUIT  JELLIES. 

CuBRANT,  Blackberry,  Strawbbiibt,  bto.  Hh 

Put  the  fruit  into  a  stone  jar ;  set  this  in  a  kettle  of 
^epid  water,  and  put  it  upon  the  fire.     Let  it  boil,  closely 


460  OOMMOV  asms. 

ooyered,  until  the  firuit  is  broken  to  pieces;  strain,  preB»- 
ing  the  bag  (a  stout  coarse  one)  hard,  putting  in  but  a 
few  handfuls  at  a  time,  and  between  each  squeezing  turn- 
ing it  inside  out  to  scald  off  the  pulp  and  skins.  To  each 
pint  of  juice  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Set  the  juice  on 
alone  to  boil,  and  while  it  is  warming  divide  the  sugar 
into  several  different  portions,  and  put  into  shallow  pie- 
dishes  or  pans  that  will  fit  in  your  ovens ;  heat  in  theae, 
opening  the  ovens  now  and  then  to  stir  it  and  prevent 
burning.  Boil  the  juice  just  twenty  minutes  from  the  mo- 
ment it  begins  fairly  to  boil.  By  this  time  the  sugar  should 
be  so  hot  you  cannot  bear  your  hand  in  it.  Should  it  melt 
around  the  edges,  do  not  be  alarmed.  The  burned  parts 
will  only  form  into  lumps  in  the  syrup,  and  can  easily  be 
taken  out.  Throw  the  sugar  into  the  boiling  juice,  stirring 
rapidly  all  the  while.  It  will  "  hiss  "  as  it  falls  in,  and 
melt  very  quickly.  Withdraw  your  spoon  when  you  are 
sure  it  is  dissolved.  Let  the  jelly  just  come  to  a  boil,  to 
make  all  certain,  and  take  the  kettle  instantly  from  the 
fire.  Roll  your  glasses  or  cups  in  hot  water,  and  fill  with 
the  scalding  liquid.  If  these  directions  be  strictly  fol- 
lowed, and  the  fruit  is  at  the  proper  state  of  ripeness, 
there  need  be  no  dread  of  failure.  I  have  often  had  the 
jelly  "  form  "  before  I  filled  the  last  glass. 

I  wish  it  were  in  my  power,  by  making  known  the  ad- 
vantages of  the  process  I  have  described,  to  put  an  end  to 
the  doubts  and  anxieties  attendant  upon  the  old-fashioned 
method  of  boiling  jelly  into  a  pjreserve.  This  plan  is  so 
simple  and  safe,  the  jelly  made  so  superior  in  flavor  and 
color  to  that  produced  by  boiling  down  juice  and  firuity 
that  no  one  who  has  ever  tried  both  ways  can  hesitate  to 
give  it  the  preference. 

Strawberry  jelly  should  hav«  a  little  lemon-juioe  added 


FBurr  JEUJEB.  461 

to  that  of  the  fruit.  Both  it  and  blackberrj,  and  very 
ripe  raspberry  jelly,  are  apt  to  be  less  firm  than  that  made 
from  more  tart  fruits ;  still,  do  not  boil  it.  Set  it  in  the 
sun,  as  I  have  directed  at  the  beginning  of  the  section 
upon  preserves  and  fruit  jellies,  filling  one  cup  from  another 
as  the  contents  shrink.  The  sun  will  boil  it  down  with 
less  waste,  and  less  injury  to  color  and  taste,  than  the  fire 
will.     Cooking  jelly  always  darkens  it. 

Put  brandied  tissue-paper  over  the  top  of  each  glass 
when  cold  and  firm,  paste  a  thick  paper  over  it,  and  keep 
in  a  dry  place. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Jelly.  >J< 

To  two  parts  red  raspberries  or  "  Blackcap:?,"  put  one 
of  red  currants,  and  proceed  as  with  other  berry  jelly. 

The  flavor  is  exquisite.  This  jelly  is  especially  nice  for 
cake. 

Wild  Cherry  and  Currant  Jelly.  ^ 

Two-thirds  wild  cherries  (stones  and  all)  and  one  of  red 
currants.  A  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice,  and  make 
as  you  do  plain  currant  jelly. 

This,  besides  being  very  palatable  and  an  excellent  ta- 
ble jelly,  is  highly  medicinal,  good  for  coughs  and  any 
weakness  of  the  digestive  organs.  I  put  it  up  first  as  an 
experiment,  and  because  I  chanced  to  have  the  cherries. 
Now  I  would  not  pass  the  winter  without  it,  unless  obliged 
to  do  so  by  a  failure  of  the  fruit  crop. 

Peach  Jelly.  ^ 

Crack  one-third  of  the  kernels  and  put  them  in  the  jar 
with  the  peaches,  which  should  be  pared,  stoned,  and 
sliced.    Heat  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  stirring  from  time 


462  COMMON  8EN8B. 

to  time  until  the  fruit  is  well  broken.  Strain,  and  to 
every  pint  of  peach  juice  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Mea- 
sure again,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  liquid. 
Heat  the  sugar  very  hot,  and  add  when  the  juice  ha^ 
boiled  twenty  minutes.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  take 
instantly  from  the  fire. 

This  is  very  fine  for  jelly-cake. 

Gkeen  Fox  Grape  Jelly  ^ 

Is  made  after  the  receipt  for  currant  jelly,  only  allowing  a 
pound  and  a-half  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice. 
Ripe  grapes  require  but  pound  for  pint. 

Quince  Jelly.  >J< 

Pare  and  slice  the  quinces,  and  add  for  every  five  pounds 
of  fruit  a  cup  of  water.  Put  peelings,  cores,  and  all  into 
a  stone  jar ;  set  this  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and,  when 
the  fruit  is  soft  and  broken,  proceed  as  with  other  jellies. 

Crib- APPLE  Jelly.  >J< 

Cut  Siberian  crab-apples  to  pieces,  but  do  not  pare  or 
remove  the  seeds.  The  latter  impart  a  peculiarly  plea- 
sant flavor  to  the  fruit.  Put  into  a  stone  jar,  set  in  a  pot 
of  hot  water,  and  let  it  boil  eight  or  nine  hours.  Leave  in 
the  jar  all  night,  covered  closely.  Next  morning,  squeeze 
out  the  juice,  allow  pound  for  pint,  and  manage  as  you  do 
currant  jelly. 

Should  the  apples  be  very  dry,  add  a  cup  of  water  for 
every  six  pounds  of  fruit. 

There  is  no  finer  jelly  than  this  in  appearance  and  in 
taste. 


!D  FRDIT9  AND  VEOET/1BLE8.  463 

FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 

yeara  caimed  fniita  have,  in  &  great 
,ed  preservee.  They  are  cheaper,  more 
VT  less  difficult  to  prepare.  Attentiou  to 
les  will  insure  success  to  every  houae- 
bly  prefers  to  put  up  her  own  season's 
>  purchasing  those  for  double  the  cost, 
rly  BO  good, 

cans  and  elastics  narrowly  before  you 
See  that  the  screw  is  in  order,  the  can 

nick,  the  elastic  firm  and  closely  fit- 

the  fruit  boiling  hot  when  sealed.  Have 
'  Btove  a  pan  in  which  each  empty  can  is 
er  it  is  rolled  in  hot  water.  Lay  elastic 
our  band,  fill  the  can  to  oyerflowing,  re- 
he  fruit  will  shrink  as  it  cools,  and  that 
^e  air  to  enter  ;  clap  on  the  top  without 
],  screw  as  tightly  as  you  can,  and  as  the 
^an  cool,  screw  i^aiu  and  ^ain  to  fit  the 
»I  and  glass- 
use  glass  cans  (and  they  are  cheapest  in 
tn  use  them  year  after  year,  getting  new 
need  them)  keep  them  in  a  cool,  dark 
well  as  cool.  The  light  will  cause  them 
so  chauge  the  color, 

Canned  Bebbies.  4« 
boiling,  in  a  lai^  kettle.    When  they 

sugar  in  the  propqftion  of  one  table- 
[]uart  of  fruit.  Before  doing  this,  how- 
luch  juice  in  the  kettle,  dip  out  the  sur- 
er or  cap.     It  will  only  increase  the 


464  COMMON  SENSE. 

number  of  cans  to  be  filled,  without  real  advantage  to  joxl 
Leave  the  berries  almost  dry  before  putting  iu  the  sugar. 
This  will  make  syrup  enough.  Boil  all  together  fiiteen 
minutes,  and  can. 

Huckleberries,  grapes,  blackberries,  currants,  raspbei^ 
ries,  cherries,  and  strawberries  put  up  in  this  way  are  very 
good,  eaten  as  you  would  preserves,  and  make  pies  which 
are  scarcely  inferior  to  those  filled  with  fresh  fruit. 

Canned  Peaches.  >J< 

Pare,  cut  iu  half  and  stone,  taking  care  not  to  break 
the  fruit ;  drop  each  piece  in  cold  water  so  soon  as  it  is 
pared.  The  large,  white  freestone  peaches  are  nicest  for 
this  purpose.  Firmne^  of  texture  is  a  desideratum.  The 
fruit  should  be  ripe,  but  not  soft.  Allow  a  heaping  table> 
spoonful  of  Bugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit,  scattering  it 
between  the  layers.  Fill  your  kettle  and  heat  slowly  to  a 
boil.  Boil  three  minutes,  just  to  assure  yourself  that  every 
piece  of  fruit  is  heated  through.  Can  and  seal.  It  is 
safe  to  put  a  cupful  of  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle 
before  packing  it  with  fruit,  lest  the  lower  layer  should 
burn. 

Canned  Peabs.  >!< 

For  the  finer  varieties,  such  as  the  Bartlett  and  Seckel, 
prepare  a  syrup,  allowing  a  pint  of  pure  water  and  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  fruit.  While  this  is 
heating,  peel  the  pears,  dropping  each,  as  it  is  pared,  into 
a  pan  of  clear  water,  lest  the  color  should  change  by  ex- 
posure to  the  air.  When  the  syrup  has  come  to  a  fiist 
boil,  put  in  the  p^rs  carefully,  not  to  bruise  them,  and 
boil  until  they  look  clear  and  can  be  easily  pierced  by  a 
fork.  Have  the  cans  ready,  rolled  in  hot  water,  pack 
with  the  pears  and  fill  to  overflowing  with  the  scalding 


CANNED  FBUITB  AND  VEGETABLES.  465 

q  xtxp,  which  must  be  kept  on  the  fire  all  the  while,  and 
seal. 

The  tougher  and  more  common  pears  must  be  boiled  in 
water  until  tender;  thrown  while  warm  into  the  hot  syrup, 
then  allowed  to  boil  ten  minutes  before  they  are  canned. 

Apples  may  be  treated  in  either  of  the  above  ways  as 
their  texture  may  seem  to  demand. 

Canned  Plums.  >I< 

Prick  with  a  needle  to  prevent  bursting;  prepare  a 
syrup  allowing  a  gill  of  pure  water  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  every  three  quarts  of  fruit.  When  the 
sugar  is  dissolved  and  the  water  blood-warm,  put  in  the 
plums.  Heat  slowly  to  a  boil.  Let  them  boil  five  minutes 
— not  fast  or  they  will  break  badly,  fill  up  the  jars  with 
plums,  pour  in  the  scalding  syrup  until  it  runs  down  the 
sides,  and  seal. 

Greengages  are  very  fine  put  up  in  this  way ;  also  dam- 
sons for  pies. 

Canned  Tomatoes.  >{< 

"1  don't  hold  with  any  of  these  new-fangled  notions," 
said  an  old  lady  to  me,  when  I  mentioned  that  my  canning 
was  over  for  the  summer.  "  I  was  beguiled,  two  years  ago, 
into  putting  up  some  Urmaytesses  in  cans,  and  if  I*m  for- 
given for  that  folly  I'll  never  tempt  Providence  in  the 
same  manner  again." 

They  didn't  keep,  then?" 

Keep  I  they  sp'iled  in  a  week!     'Twas  no  more'n  1 

expected  and  deserved  for  meddling  with  such  a  hum- 

bug." 

"Perhaps  you  did  not  follow  the  directions  closely?*' 

"Indeed  I  did!    I  cooked  the  tormented  things,  and 

seasoned  ^em  with  butter  and  salt,  all  ready  for  the  table, 

20* 


« 
« 


I 


466  COMMON  SBlfSE. 

and  screwed  the  tops  down  tight    But,  in  course,  they 
ep  iled.! " 

"  Were  you  careful  to  put  them  into  the  cans  boiling 
hot?" 

"  'Twould  have  cracked  the  glass!  I  let  'em  get  nice 
and  cold  first  I  didn't  suppose  it  made  any  difference 
about  such  a  trifle  as  that  I  " 

Poor  old  lady !  I  think  of  her  and  her  mighty  tempta- 
tion of  Providence  whenever  I  can  tomatoes,  for  heat  does 
make  a  difference — all  the  diflerence  in  the  world  in  this 
sort  of  work. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  tomatoes  to  loosen  the 
skins  Remove  these;  drain  off  all  the  juice  that  will 
come  away  without  pressing  hard  ;  put  them  into  a  kettle 
and  heat  slowly  to  a  boil.  Your  tomatoes  will  look  much 
nicer  if  you  remove  all  the  hard  parts  before  putting 
them  on  the  fire,  and  rub  the  pulp  soft  with  your  hands. 
Boil  ten  minutes,  dip  out  the  surplus  liquid,  pour  the 
tomatoes,  boiling  hot,  into  the  cans,  and  seal.  Keep  in  a 
cool,  dark  place. 

Canned  Tomatoes  and  Corn.  >J< 

Boil  the  com  on  the  cob,  when  it  is  in  nice  order  fi)r 
roasting,  twenty  minutes  over  a  good  fire,  and  cut  off 
while  hot  Have  your  tomatoes  skinned  and  rubbed  to 
a  smooth  pulp.  Put  in  two  measures  of  them  for  every 
one  of  the  cut  corn ;  salt  as  for  the  table,  stirring  it  well 
in,  and  bring  to  a  hard  boil.  Then,  can  quickly,  and  bh 
soon  as  they  are  cold  set  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Preserved  Green  Corn.  >I< 

{Vyil  on  the  cob  until  the  milk  ceases  to  flow  when  the 
grain  is  pricked.  Cut  off  the  corn  and  pack  in  stone  jars 
in  the  following  order: — ^A  layer  of  salt  at  the  bottom. 


BlBLAm>ltiy  I^RtTTTB.  467 

h»(f  an  inch  deep.  Then  one  of  corn  two  inches  in  depth, 
another  half-inch  of  salt,  and  so  on  until  the  jar  is  nearly 
filled.  Let  the  topmost  layer  of  salt  be  double  the  depth 
of  the  others,  and  pour  over  all  melted — not  hot — lard. 
Press  upon  this,  when  nearly  hard,  thick  white  paper,  cut 
to  fit  the  mouth  of  the  jar.  Keep  in  a  cool  place.  Soak 
over  nighv  before  using  it. 

Green  com  is  difficult  to  can,  but  /  know  it  will  keep 
well  if  put  up  in  this  way  And,  strange  to  tell,  be  so 
fresh  after  the  night's  soaking  as  to  require  salt  when  you 
boil  it  for  the  table.  Should  the  top  layer  be  musty,  dig 
lower  still,  and  you  will  probably  be  rewarded  for  the 
search. 


BRANDIED   FRUITS. 

Bbanbied  Peaches  or  Peabs.  >{< 
4  lbs.  fruit. 
4  lbs.  sugar. 
1  pint  best  white  brandy. 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  enough  water  to  dissolve 
it.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil ;  put  the  fruit  in  and  boil  five 
minutes.  Having  removed  the  fruit  carefully,  let  the 
syrup  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer,  or  until  it  thickens  well ; 
add  the  brandy,  and  take  the  kettle  at  once  from  the  fire; 
pour  the  hot  syrup  over  the  fruit,  and  seal. 

If,  after  the  fruit  is  taken  from  the  fii*e,  a  reddish  liquor 
oozes  from  it,  drain  this  off  before  adding  the  clear  syrup. 
Put  up  in  glass  jars. 

Peaches  and  pears  should  be  peeled  for  brandying. 
Plums  should  be  pricked  and  watched  carefully  for  fear 
of  bursting. 


Bbasdied  Chebribs  OS 
Make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  st 
water  for  every  two  lbs.  of  fruit.  I 
to  prevent  buruiog,  and  pour  over 
— rwt  hot.  Let  them  stand  togethe 
a  preserving- kettle,  acd  beat  slov 
take  nut  the  fruit  with  a  perforated 
syrup  twenty  minutes.  Add  a  pin 
five  poimdfl  of  fruit;  pour  over  the  I 


CANDIES 

Molasses  Candi 

1  quart  good  molaE 

i  cup  vinegar. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Butter  tiie  size  of  a 

1  teaspoonful  ealen 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  vinegai 

ses,  and  boil,  etirrtug  frequently,  i 

dropped  from  the  spoon  into  cold  i 

butter  and  soda,  the  latter  dissolved 

to  your  taste,  give  one  hard  final  s 

tered  dishes.     As  it  cools,  cut  into  e 

while  soft  enough  to  handle,  pull  w 

only  the  buttered  tips  of  your  finger 

SUOAR-CANDT. 

6  cups  of  sugar. 
1  cup  of  vinegar. 
1  cup  of  water 
Tablespoonhil  of  butter,  put  i 
1  teaspoonful  saleratus  diseol 


PICKLES. 


469 


tirring,  an  hour,  or  until  it  crisps  in 
jr.     Pull  white  with  the  tips  of  your  fingers, 
ice  children  must  cat  candy,  this  is  the  best  you  can 
them.    It  is  very  nice.    Flavor  to  taste. 


PICKLES. 

Use  none  but  the  best  cider  vinegar ;  especially  avoid 
le  sharp  colorless  liquid  sold  under  that  name.  It  is 
Feak  sulphuric  acid,  warranted  to  riddle  the  coat  of  any 
>mach,  even  that  of  an  ostrich,  if  that  bird  were  so  bereft 
the  instinct  of  self-preservation  as  to  make  a  lunch  of 
;ht-green  cucumber-pickle  seven  times  a  week. 
rwlf  you  boil  pickles  in  bell-metal,  do  not  let  them  stand 
it  one  moment  when  it  is  off  the  fire ;  and  see  for  your- 
that  it  is  perfectly  clean  and  newly  scoured  before  the 
legar  is  put  in. 
Keep  pickles  in  glass  or  hard  stoneware;  look  them 
over  every  month ;  remove  the  soft  ones,  and  if  there  are 
several  of  these,  drain  off  and  scald  the  vinegar,  adding  a 
cup  of  sugar  for  each  gallon,  and  pour  hot  over  the  pickles. 
If  they  are  keeping  well,  throw  in  a  liberal  handful  of 
sugar  for  every  gallon,  and  tie  them  up  again.  This  tends 
to  preserve  them,  and  mellows  the  sharpness  of  the  vine- 
gar.    This  does  not  apply  to  sweet  pickle. 

Pickle,  well  made,  is  better  when  a  year  old  than  at  the 
end  of  six  months.     I  have  eaten  walnut  pickle  ten  years 
old  that  was  very  fine. 
Keep  your  pickles  well  covered  with  vinegar. 
If  you  use  ground  spices,  tie  them  up  in  thin  muslin 
bags. 


470  oommok  sense.  ' 

Cucumber  or  Gherkin  Pickle.  >I< 

Choose  small  cucumbers,  or  gherkins,  for  this  purpose 
They  are  more  tender,  and  look  better  on  the  table.  Re- 
ject all  over  a  finger  in  length,  and  every  one  that  is  mis- 
shapen or  specked,  however  slightly.  Pack  in  a  stone  jar 
or  wooden  bucket,  in  layers,  strewing  salt  thickly  between 
these.  Cover  the  top  layer  out  of  sight  with  salt,  and 
pour  on  cold  water  enough  to  cover  all.  Lay  a  small 
plate  or  round  board  upon  them,  with  a  clean  stone  to 
keep  it  down.  You  may  leave  them  in  the  brine  for  a 
week  or  a  month,  stirring  up  from  the  bottom  every  other 
day.  If  the  longer  time,  be  sure  your  salt  and  water  is 
strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg.  If  you  raise  your  own 
cucumbers,  pick  them  every  day,  and  drop  in  the  pickle. 
When  you  are  ready  to  put  them  up,  throw  away  the 
brine,  with  any  cucumbers  that  may  have  softened  under 
the  process,  and  lay  the  rest  in  cold  fresh  water  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  Change  the  water  then  for  fresh,  and  leave 
it  for  another  day.  Have  a  kettle  ready,  lined  with  green 
vine-leaves,  and  lay  the  pickles  evenly  within  it,  scattering 
powdered  alum  over  the  layers.  A  bit  of  alum  as  large 
as  a  pigeon-egg  will  be  enough  for  a  two-gallon  kettiefuL 
Fill  with  cold  water,  cover  with  vine-leaves,  three  deep ; 
put  a  close  lid  or  inverted  pan  over  all,  and  steam  over  a 
slow  fire  five  or  six  hours,  not  allowing  the  water  to  boiL 
When  the  pickles  are  a  fine  green,  remove  the  leaves  and 
throw  the  cucumbers  into  very  cold  water.  Let  them 
stand  in  it  while  you  prepare  the  vinegar.  To  one  gallon 
*  allow  a  cup  of  sugar,  three  dozen  whole  black  peppers,  the 
same  of  cloves,  half  as  much  allspice,  one  dozen  blades  of 
mace.  Boil  five  minittes  ;  put  the  cucumbers  into  a  stone 
jar,  and  pour  the  vinegar  over  them  scalding  hot.  Cover 
elosely.     Two  days  afterward  scald  the  vinegar  again  and 


PICKLES.  471 

return  to  the  pickles.  Repeat  this  process  three  times 
more,  at  intervals  of  two,  four,  and  six  days.  Cover  with 
a  stoneware  or  wooden  top ;  tie  stout  cloth  over  this,  and 
keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  They  will  be  ready  for  eating 
in  i«fo  months.     Examine  every  few  weeks. 

Pickled  Mangoes.  >{< 

Young  musk  or  nutmeg  melons. 

English  mustard-seed  two  handfuls,  mixed  with 

Scraped  horseradish,  one  handful. 

Mace  and  nutmeg  pounded,  1  teaspoonful. 

Chopped  garlic,  2  teaspoonfuls. 

A  little  ginger. 

Whole  pepper-corns,  1  dozen. 

}  tablespoonfiil  of  ground  mustard  to  a  pint  of  the 

mixture. 
1  teaspoonful  sugar  to  the  same  quantity. 
1  "  best  salad  oil  to  the  same. 

1  teaspoonful  celery-seed. 

Cut  a  slit  in  the  side  of  the  melon ;  insert  your  finger 
and  extract  all  the  seeds.  If  you  cannot  get  them  out  in 
this  way,  cut  a  slender  piece  out,  saving  it  to  replace, — 
but  the  slit  is  better.  Lay  the  mangoes  in  strong  brine 
fo^  three  days.  Drain  off  the  brine,  and  freshen  in  pure 
water  twenty-four  hours.  Green  as  you  would  cucumbers, 
and  lay  in  cold  water  until  cold  and  firm.  Fill  with  the 
stuffing;  sew  up  the  slit,  or  tie  up  with  pack  thread ;  pack 
in  a  deep  stone  jar,  and  pour  scalding  vinegar  over  them. 
Repeat  this  process  three  times  more  at  intervals  of  two 
days,  then  tie  up  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

They  will  not  be  "ripe"  under  four  months,  but  are 
very  fine  when  they  are.    They  will  keep  several  years. 


n 


472  COMMON  SENSE. 

ft 

Pepper  Mangoes.  >{< 

Are  put  up  in  the  same  way,  using  green  peppers  that 
are  full  grown,  but  not  tinged  with  red. 

They  are  very  good,  but  your  fingers  will  smart  after 
thrusting  them  into  the  peppers  to  pull  out  the  seeds.  For 
this  purpose  I  have  used,  first,  a  small  penknife,  to  cut  the 
core  from  its  attachment  to  the  stem-end  of  the  pepper, 
then  a  smooth  bit  of  stick,  to  pry  open  the  slit  in  the  side 
and  work  out  the  loose  core  or  bunch  of  seed.  By  the 
exercise  of  a  little  ingenuity  you  may  spare  yourself  all 
suffering  from  this  cause.  Should  your  fingers  burn  bad- 
ly, anoint  them  with  sweet-oil  and  wear  gloves  that  night. 
Cream  will  also  allay  the  smart. 

Pickled  Cabbage  (FeSbto.) 

2  gallons  vinegar. 

1  pint  white  mustard  seed. 
4  oz.  ginger. 

3  oz.  pepper-corns. 

1  oz.  allspice. 

2  oz.  cloves. 
1  oz.  mace. 

1  oz.  nutmeg. 

2  oz.  turmeric. 
1  large  handful  of  garlic,  chopped. 

1  handful  scraped  horseradish. 

4  lbs.  sugar. 

2  oz.  celery  seed. 

3  lemons,  sliced  thin. 

Mix  all  and  set  in  the  sun  for  three  days. 

To  prepare  the  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters — ^leaving  off 
the  outer  and  green  leaves — and  put  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
brine.  .  Cook  three  minutes.      Take  out,  drain,  and  cover 


pounded  fine. 


PICKL1S8.  473 

thickly  with  salt  Spread  out  in  the  sun  to  dry ;  then 
shake  off  the  salt,  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar  in  which 
has  been  steeped  enough  turmeric  to  color  it  well.  Leave 
it  in  this  two  weeks,  to  draw  out  the  salt  and  to  plump  the 
cabbage.  They  are  then  ready  to  pack  down  in  the  sea« 
soned  vinegar.    Do  not  use  under  six  weeks  or  two  montha 

Pickled  Cabbage  (^Purple.) 

Quarter  the  cabbage.  Lay  in  a  wooden  tray,  sprinkle 
thickly  with  salt,  and  set  in  the  cellar  until  next  day. 
Drain  off  the  brine,  wipe  dry,  lay  in  the  sun  two  hours, 
and  cover  with  cold  vinegar  for  twelve  hours.  Prepare 
the  pickle  by  seasoning  enough  vinegar  to  cover  the  cab- 
bage with  equal  quantities  of  mace,  cloves,  whole  white 
peppers ;  a  cup  of  sugar  to  every  gallon  of  vinegar,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  celery  seed  for  every  pint  Pack  the  cab- 
bage in  a  stone  jar ;  boil  the  vinegar  and  spices  five  min- 
utes and  pour  on  hot.  Cover  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dry 
place. 

This  will  be  ripe  in  six  weeks. 

Pickled  Oklgsb. 

Peel  the  onions,  which  should  be  fine  white  ones — ^not 
too  large.  Let  them  stand  in  strong  brine  for  four  days, 
changing  it  twice.  Heat  more  brine  to  a  boil,  throw  in 
the  onions,  and  boil  three  minutes.  Throw  them  at  once 
into  cold  water,  and  leave  them  there  four  hours.  Pack 
in  jars,  interspersing  with  whole  mace,  white  pepper-corns, 
and  cloves.  Fill  up  with  scalding  vinegar  in  which  you 
have  put  a  cupful  of  sugar  for  every  gallon.  Cork  while 
hot 

They  will  be  ready  fer  use  in  a  month,  but  will.b« 
better  at  the  end  of  three  months. 


474  oommov  scvbb. 

Oreen  Beanb  akd  Radish  Pods. 
Take  young  French  or  ''string"  beans,  and  radish  pods 
just  before  they  change  color ;  green  and  pickle  as  you  do 
cucambers  and  gherkins. 

Nastubtiuic-sbed.  ^ 

Take  the  green  seed  after  the  flower  has  dried  off.  Lay 
in  salt  and  water  two  days,  in  cold  water  one  day ;  pack 
in  bottles  and  cover  with  scalding  vin^;ar,  seasoned  with 
mace  and  white  pepper-corns,  and  sweetened  slightly  with 
white  sugar.  Cork,  and  set  away  four  weeks  before  you 
use  them. 

They  are  an  excellent  substitute  for  oapen. 

Pickled  BuTTERWtrra  and  Walnuts.  >I< 

Grather  them  when  soft  enough  to  be  pierced  by  a  pin. 
Lay  them  in  strong  brine  five  days,  changing  this  twice 
in  the  meantime.  Drain,  and  wipe  them  with  a  coarse 
cloth ;  pierce  each  by  running  a  large  needle  through  it, 
and  lay  in  cold  water  for  six  hours. 

To  each  gallon  of  vinegar  allow  a  cup  of  sugar,  three 
dozen  each  of  whole  cloves  and  black  pepper-corns,  half 
as  much  albpioe,  and  a  dozen  blades  of  maoe.  Boil  five 
minutes;  pack  the  nuts  in  small  jars  and  pour  over  them 
scalding  hot.  Repeat  this  twice  within  a  week ;  tie  up 
and  set  away. 

They  will  be  good  to  eat  in  a  month — and  very  good  Uxx 

Pickled  Cauliflower.  >{< 

Pick  the  whitest  and  closest  bunches.    Cut  into  small 

sprays  or  clusters.    Plunge  into  a  kettle  of  scalding  brine 

and  boil  three  minutes.    Take  them  out,  lay  upon  a  sieve 

or  a  cloth,  sprinkle  thiekly  with  salt,  and,  when  dry, 


476 

brush  this  otL  Coyer  with  cold  yinegar  for  two  days, 
setting  the  jar  in  the  sun.  Then  pack  carefully  in  glass 
or  stoneware  jars,  and  pour  over  them  scalding  vinegar 
seasoned  thus: 

To  one  gallon  allow  a  cup  of  white  sugar,  a  dozen 
blades  of  mace,  a  tablespoonful  of  celery-seed,  two  dozen 
white  pepper-corns  and  some  bits  of  red  pepper  pods,  a 
tablespoonful  of  coriander-seed,  and  the  same  of  whole 
mustard.  Boil  five  minutes.  Repeat  the  scalding  once  a 
week  for  three  weeks;  tie  up  and  set  away.  Keep  the 
cauliflowers  under  tha  vinegar  by  putting  a  small  plate 
on  top. 

Sliced  Cucumber  Pickle.  (^Very  nice.') 

2  dozen  large  cucumbers,  sliced,  and  boiled  in  vinegar 
enough  to  cover  them,  one  hour  Set  aside  in  the  hot 
vinegar. 

To  each  gallon  of  cold  vinegar  allow — 
lb.  sugar. 

tablespoonful  of  cinnamon. 
"  ginger, 

black  pepper, 
celery-seed, 
teaspoonful  of  mace. 
"  allspice. 

"  cloves, 

tablespoonful  tumeric. 

horseradish,  scraped* 
garlic,  sliced, 
teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 

Put  in  the  cucumbers  and  stew  two  hours. 

The  pickle  will  be  ready  for  use  so  soon  as  it  is  cold. 


« 


476  COMMON  8SN8E* 

Pickled  Water-melon  Rikd.    {Extremdy  nice.) 

Equal  weight  of  rind  and  white  sugar. 
}  ounce  white  ginger  to  a  gallon  of  pickle. 
1  pint  vinegar  to  every  pound  of  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  turmeric  to  a  gallon  of  pickle. 
Mace,  cloves,  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

Take  the  thickest  rind  you  can  get,  pare  off  the  bard 
green  riud,  also  the  soft  inner  pulp.  Lay  the  pieces — 
narrow  strips  or  fanciful  cuttings — ^in  brine  strong  enough 
to  float  an  egg,  and  let  them  remain  in  it  ten  days.  Then 
soak  in  fair  water,  changing  it  every  day  for  ten  days. 
Cover  them  with  clear  water  in  a  preserviog-kettle,  heat 
slowly  and  boil  five  minutes.  Take  them  out  and  plunge 
instantly  into  ice-water.  Leave  them  in  this  until  next 
day.  Give  them  another  gentle  boil  of  five  minutes  in 
strong  alum-water.  Simmer  carefully,  as  a  hard  boil  will 
injure  them.  Change  directly  from  the  alum  to  the  ice- 
water  again,  and  do  not  disturb  them  for  four  hours.  Af- 
ter a  third  boil  of  five  minutes,  let  them  remain  all  night 
in  the  last  water  to  make  them  tender.  Next  day  add  to 
enough  water  to  cover  the  rinds  sufiScient  sugar  to  make 
it  quite  sweet,  but  not  a  syrup.  Simmer  the  rinds  in  this 
ten  minutes,  throw  the  water  away,  and  spread  them  upon 
dishes  to  cool.  Meanwhile  prepare  a  second  syrup,  al- 
lowing sugar  equal  in  weight  to  the  rind,  and  half  an 
ounce  of  sliced  white  ginger  to  a  gallon  of  the  pickle, 
with  a  cup  of  water  for  every  two  pounds  of  sugar.  When 
the  sugar  is  melted  and  the  syrup  quite  hot,  but  not  boil- 
ing, put  in  the  rinds  and  simmer  until  they  look  quite 
clear.  Take  it  out,  spread  upon  the  dishes  again,  while 
you  add  to  the  syrup  a  pint  of  vinegar  for  every  pound 
of  the  sugar  you  have  put  in»  one  tablespoonful  of  tur- 
meric to  a  gallon  of  pickle ;  mace,  c^o^i^ei^  and  dnnamon  to 


PICKLES. 


477 


taste.  Boil  this  up,  return  the  riud  to  it,  and  simmer 
fifteen  minutes.  Put  up  in  glass  jars.  It  will  be  fit  for 
use  in  two  weeks. 

This  is  a  very  handsome  and  delicious  pickle,  although 
it  may  seem  to  be  made  upon  the  principle  of  the  French- 
man's pebble-soup. 

Grken  Tomato  Soy.  >{< 

2  gallons  tomatoes,  green,  and  sliced  without  peeling. 
12  good-sized  onions,  also  sliced. 
2  quarts  vinegar. 

1  quart  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salt 

2  **  ground  mustard. 

2  **  black  pepper,  ground. 

1  tablespoonful  allspice. 
1  "  cloves. 

Mix  all  together,  and  stew  until  tender,  stirring  <^en 
lest  they  should  scorch.     Put  up  in  small  glass  jars. 

This  is  a  most  u^^eful  and  pleasant  sauce  for  almost  every 
kind  of  meat  and  fish. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle    (^Very  good,)  >i< 

7  lbs.  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced. 
3i  "  sugar. 

1  oz.  cinnamon  and  mace  mixed. 
1   "   cloves. 
1  quart  of  vinegar. 
Mix  all  together  and  stew  an  hour. 

Ripe  Tomato  Pickle.    {No,  2.) 

2  gallons  tomatoes,  peeled,  but  not  sliced. 

1  pint  vinegar. 

2  lbs.  sugar. 

Mace,  nutmeg,  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 


478  COMMON  S£NBS. 

Put  all  on  together,  heat  slowly  to  a  boil,  aad  simmer 
one  hour.    Put  up  in  glass  jars. 

SwBET  Pickle — Plums,  Pears,  Peaches,  or  other 

Fruits.  >Ji 

7  lbs.  fruit,  pared. 
4  ^  white  sugar. 
1  pint  strong  vinegar. 

Mace,  cinnamon,  and  cloves. 

• 

Pare  peaches  and  pears ;  prick  plums  and  damsons,  to- 
matoes, **  globes "  or  husk-tomatoes  (otherwise  known  as 
ground-plums).  Put  into  the  kettle  with  alternate  layers 
of  sugar.  Heat  slowly  to  a  boil;  add  the  vinegar  and 
spioe ;  boil  five  minutes ;  take  out  the  fruit  with  a  per- 
forated skimmer  and  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool.  Boil 
the  syrup  thick ;  pack  the  fruit  in  glass  jars,  and  pour 
the  syrup  on  boiling  hot. 

Examine  every  few  days  for  the  first  month,  and  should 
it  show  signs  of  fermenting  set  the  jars  (uncovered)  in  a 
kettle  of  water,  and  heat  until  the  contents  are  scalding. 

Husk-tomatoes — a  fruit  which  looks  like  a  hybrid  be- 
tween the  tomato  and  plum — ^are  particularly  nice  put  up 
in  this  way. 

Pickled  Peaches. 

10  lbs.  fruit — pared. 

4J  "    sugar. 

1  quart  vinegar. 
Mace,  cinnamon,  and  cloves  to  taste. 

Lay  the  peaches  in  the  sugar  for  an  hour ;  drain  off 
every  drop  of  syrup,  and  put  over  the  fire  with  about  a 
cup  of  water.  Boil  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise.  Skim ; 
put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  five  minutes.    Take  out  the 


PICKLBB.  479 

peaches  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  spread  upon 
dishes  to  cool.  Add  the  vinegar  and  spices  to  the  syrup. 
Boil  fij^een  minutes  longer,  and  pour  over  the  fruit  in 
glass  jars. 

Pickled  Peaches  (unpeded.) 

Rub  the  fur  off  with  a  coarse  cloth,  and  prick  each 
peach  with  a  fork.     Heat  in  just  enough  water  to  cover 
them  until  they  almost  boil ;  take  them  out,  and  add  to 
the  water  sugar  in  the  following  proportions : — 
For  every  7  lbs.  of  fruit 

3  lbs.  of  sugar. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes ;  skim,  and  add — 
3  pints  of  vinegar. 

1  tablespoonful  (each)  of  allspice,  mace,  and  cin- 
namon. 
1  teaspoonful  celery-seed. 
1  cloves. 

Put  the  spices  in  thin  muslin  bags.  Boil  all  together 
ten  minutes,  then  put  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  until  they  can 
be  pierced  with  a  straw.  Take  out  the  fruit  with  a  skim- 
mer, and  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool.  Boil  the  syrup  until 
thick,  pack  the  peaches  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  this  over 
them  scalding  hot. 

You  may  pickle  pears  in  the  same  way  without  peeling. 

Pickled  Cherries.  >J< 

Morella,  or  large  red  tart  cherries,  as  fresh  as  you  can 
get  them.  To  every  quart  allow  a  large  cup  of  vinegar 
aud  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  with  a  dozen  whole  cloves 
and  half  a  dozen  blades  of  mace. 

Put  the  vinegar  aud  sugar  on  to  heat  with  the  spices. 
Boil  five  minutes ;  turn  out  into  a  covered  stoneware  ves- 


480  COMMON  QEHBE. 

ed,  cover,  and  let  it  get  perfectly  cold.  Strain  out  the 
spices,  fill  small  jars  three-quarters  of  the  way  to  the  top 
with  fruit,  and  pour  the  cold  vinegar  over  them.  Ck)rk  or 
cover  tightly.    Leave  the  stems  on  the  cherries. 

PlCKLBTTE.   >J< 

4  large  crisp  cabbages,  chopped  fine. 

1  quart  onions,  chopped  fine. 

2  quarts  of  vinegar,  or  enough  to  cover  the  cabbage. 
2  lbs.  brown  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 
2  "  black  pepper. 


1 

•• 

Cinnamon. 

2 

it 

turmeric. 

2 

tt 

celery-seed. 

1 

(C 

allspice. 

1 

« 

mace. 

1 

« 

alum,  pulverized. 

Pack  the  cabbage  and  onions  in  alternate  layers,  with  a 
little  salt  between  them.  Let  them  stand  until  next  day. 
Then  scald  the  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices  together,  and 
pour  over  the  cabbage  and  onion.  Do  this  three  mornings 
in  succession.  On  the  fourth,  put  all  together  over  the 
fire  and  heat  to  a  boil.  Let  them  boil  five  minutes.  When 
cold,  pack  in  small  jars. 

It  is  fit  for  use  as  soon  as  cool,  but  keeps  well. 


DRINKS. 

Coffee. 

Jiever  buy  the  ground  cofiee  put  up  in  packagrs,  if  you 
can  get  any  other.  The  mere  fact  that  after  they  have 
gone  to  the  expense  of  the  machinery  and  labor  requisite 


I>BINKS.  481 

for  grinding  it,  the  manufacturers  can  sell  it  cheaper  per 
pound  than  grocers  can  the  whole  grains,  roasted  or  raw, 
should  conduce  every  sensible  person  that  it  is  adulterated 
with  other  and  less  expensive  substances.  Be  that  as  it 
maj,  coffee  loses  its  aroma  so  rapidly  after  it  is  ground 
that  it  19  worth  your  while  to  buy  it  whole,  either  in  small 
quantities  freshly  roasted,  or  raw,  and  roast  it  yourself; 
or  stand  by  and  see  your  respectable  grocer  grind  what 
you  have  just  bought.  You  can  roast  in  a  pan  in  the  oven, 
stirring  every  few  minutes,  or  in  the  same  upon  the  top  of 
the  range.  Stir  often  and  roast  quickly  to  a  bright  brown 
— ^not  a  dull  black.  While  still  hot,  beat  up  the  white  of 
an  egg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and  stir  up 
well  with  it.  This  will  tend  to  preserve  the  flavor.  Grind 
just  enough  at  a  time  for  a  single  making. 

To  MAKE  Coffee  (boiled.) 

1  full  coffee-cup  (i  pint)  of  ground  coffee. 
1  quart  of  boiling  water. 
White  of  an  egg,  and  crushed  shell  of  same. 
i  cup  of  cold  water  to  settle  it. 

Stir  up  the  eggshell  and  the  white  (beaten)  with  the 
coffee,  and  a  very  little  cold  water,  and  mix  gradually 
with  the  boiling  water  in  the  coffee-boiler.  Stir  from  the 
sides  and  top  as  it  boils  up.  Boil  pretty  fast  twelve  min- 
utes ;  pour  in  the  cold  water  and  take  from  the  fire,  set- 
ting gently  upon  the  hearth  to  settle.  In  five  minutes, 
pour  it  off  carefully  into  your  silver,  china,  or  Britannia 
coffee-pot,  which  should  be  previously  well  scalded. 

Send  to  table  hot. 

To  MAKE   Coffee  without  BoiLiNa 

There  are  so  many  patent  coffee-pots  for  this  purpose^ 
21 


482  OOMHOH  SSNBB. 

and  the  directions  sold  with  these  are  so  nnnute^  that  I 
ueed  give  only  a  few  general  rules  here.  Allow  rather 
more  coffee  to  a  given  quantity  of  water  thau  if  it  were  to 
be  boiled,  and  have  it  ground  very  fine.  Put  the  coffee  in 
the  uppermost  compartment,  pour  on  the  water  very  slowly 
until  the  fine  coffee  is  saturated,  then  more  rapidly.  The 
water  should  be  boiling.  8hut  down  the  top,  and  the  cof- 
fee ought  to  be  ready  when  it  has  gone  through  the  double 
or  treble  set  of  strainers.  Should  it  not  be  strong  enough, 
run  it  through  again. 

Cafb  au  Lait. 
1  pint  very  strong  made  coffee — fresh  and  hot 

1  '*    boiling  milk. 

The  coffee  should  be  poured  off  the  grounds  through  a 
fine  strainer  (thin  muslin  is  the  best  material)  into  the 
table  coffee-pot.  Add  the  milk,  and  set  the  pot  where  it 
will  keep  hot  for  five  minutes  before  pouring  it  out 

Tea. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  tea  to  one  large  cupful  of  boilin|^ 
water. 

Scald  the  teapot  well,  put  in  the  tea,  and,  covering  close, 
set  it  on  the  stove  or  range*  one  minute  to  warm ;  pour  on 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it  well,  and  let  it  stand  teo 
minutes  to  "draw."  Keep  the  lid  of  the  pot  shut,  and 
set  in  a  warm  place,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Fill  up  with 
as  much  boiling  water  as  you  will  need,  and  send  hot  to 
the  table,  after  pouring  into  a  heated  china  or  silver  pot. 

The  bane  of  tea  in  many  households  is  unboiled  water. 
It  can  never  extract  the  flavor  as  it  should,  although  it 
steep  for  hours.  The  kettle  should  not  only  steam,  but 
bubble  and  puffin  a  hard  boil  before  you  add  water  from 
it  to  the  tea-leaves. 


4&8 

Boiling  after  the  tea  is  made,  injures  the  flavor  either 
by  deadening  or  making  it  rank  and  **  herby." 

The  English  custom  of  making  tea  upon  the  breakfast 
or  tea-table  is  £stst  gaining  ground  in  America.  It  is  at 
once  the  best  and  prettiest  way  of  preparing  the  beverage. 

Chocolate.  >j< 

6  tablespoonfuk  grated  chocolate  to  each  pint  of  water. 
As  much  milk  as  you  have  water. 
Sweeten  to  taste. 

Put  on  the  water  boiling  hot.  Bub  the  chocolate 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  water. 
Boil  twenty  minutes ;  add  the  milk  and  boil  ten  minutes 
more,  stirring  frequently.  You  can  sweeten  upon  the 
fire  or  in  the  cups. 

Cocoa  Nibs,  or  Shells.  ^ 

1  quart  of  boiling  water. 

2  ozs.  of  cocoa  nibs. 
1  quart  firesh  milk. 

Wet  the  shells  or  nibs  up  with  a  little  cold  water;  add 
to  the  boiling,  and  cook  one  hour  and  a  half;  strain,  put 
in  the  milk,  let  it  heat  almost  to  boiling,  and  take  from 
the  fire. 

This  is  excellent  for  invalids. 

Prepared  Cocoa.  ^ 

1  quart  of  water,  boiling. 

2  ozs.  prepared  cocoa — Baker's  is  best 
1  quart  of  milk. 

Make  as  you  do  chocolate— only  boil  nearly  an  hour 
b«bre  you  add  the  milk,  afterward  heating  ahnod  to  boil< 
ing.    Sweeten  to  taste. 


484  oosocok  sense. 

Milk  Tea  (fob  Childben.) 

1  pint  fresh  milk  and  the  same  of  hoUing  watei; 
Sweeten  to  taste. 

Baspberry  Kotal.  ^ 

4  quarts  ripe  berries. 
1  quart  best  cider  vinegar. 
1  lb.  white  sugar. 
1  pint  fine  brandy. 

Put  the  berries  in  a  stone  jar,  pour  the  vin^ar  over 
them,  add  the  sugar,  and  pound  the  berries  to  a  paste  with 
a  wooden  pestle,  or  mash  with  a  spoon.  Let  them  stand 
in  the  sun  four  hours ;  strain  and  squeeze  out  all  the  juice, 
and  put  in  the  brandy.  Seal  up  in  bottles ;  lay  them  on 
their  sides  in  the  cellar,  and  cover  with  sawdust. 

Stir  two  tablespoonfuls  into  a  tumbler  of  ice-water  when 
you  wish  to  use  it. 

Raspberry  Vikeoar.  >{< 

Put  the  raspberries  into  a  stone  vessel  and  mash  them 
to  a  pulp.  Add  cider-vinegar — no  specious  imitation, 
but  the  genuine  article — enough  to  cover  it  well.  Stand 
in  the  sun  twelve  hours,  and  all  night  in  the  cellar.  Stir  up 
well  occasionally  during  this  time.  Strain,  and  put  as 
many  fresh  berries  in  the  jar  as  you  took  out ;  pour  the 
strained  vinegar  over  them ;  mash  and  set  in  the  sun  all 
day.  Strain  a  second  time  next  day.  To  each  quart  of 
this  juice  allow 

1  pint  of  water. 

6  lbs.  of  sugar  (best  white)  for  every  3  fnnti  of 
liquid,  juice  and  water  mingled. 


DKINKfi  485 

.  Place  over  a  gentle  fire  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Heat  slowly  to  boilings  skimming  off  the  scum, 
and  as  soon  as  it  fairly  boils  take  off  and  strain.  Bottle 
while  warm,  and  seal  the  corks  with  sealing  wax,  or  bees'- 
wax  and  rosin. 

A  most  refreshing  and  pleasant  drink. 

Blackberry  Vinegar 

Is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  raspberry,  allowing  5i  lbs 
sugar  to  3  pints  of  juice  and  water. 

Blackberry  Cordial. 

1  quart  of  blackberry  juice. 

1  lb.  white  sugar. 

i  oz.  grated  nutmeg. 

i  oz.  powdered  cinnamon* 

}  oz.  allspice. 

i  oz.  cloves. 

1  pint  best  brandy. 

Tie  the  spices  in  thin  muslin  bags ;  boil  juice,  sugar,  and 
spices  together  fifteen  minutes,  skimming  well ;  add  the 
brandy;  set  aside  in  a  closely  covered  vessel  to  cool. 
When  perfectly  cold,  strain  out  the  spices,  and  bottle, 
sealing  the  corks. 

Elderberry  Wine. 

8  quarts  of  berries. 

4  quarts  of  boiling  water  poured  over  the  berries. 

Let  it  stand  twelve  hours,  stirring  now  and  then.  Strain 
well,  pressing  out  all  the  juice.     Add 

3  lbs.  of  sugar  to  4  quarts  of  juices 
1  oz.  powdered  cinnamon. 

i  oz.  powdered  cloves. 


486 


OOMMOK  SBKSB. 


Boil  five  minutes,  and  set  away  to  ferment  in  a  stone 
jar,  with  a  cloth  thrown  lightly  over  it  When  it  has 
done  fermenting,  rack  it  offcarefullyy  not  to  disturb  the 
lees.    Bottle  and  cork  down  well. 

Cranberry  Wnrs. 

Mash  ripe  berries  to  a  pulp ;  put  into  a  stone  jar. 
Add  1  quart  of  water  to  2  quarts  of  berries. 

Stir  well  and  let  it  stand  two  days.  Strain  through  a 
double  flannel  bag;  mash  a  second  supply  of  berries,  equal 
in  quantity  to  the  first,  and  cover  with  this  liquid.  Steep 
two  days  more ;  strain ;  add 

1  lb.  sugar  for  3  quarts  of  liquor, 

and  boil  five  minutes.      Let  it  ferment  in  lightly  covered 
jars ;  rack  off  and  bottle. 

This  is  said  to  be  very  good  for  scrofula. 

Strawberry  Wine. 

3  quarts  of  strawberries,  mashed  and  strained.  To  the 
juice  (there  should  be  about  a  quart,  if  the  berries  are  ripe 
and  firesh)  add 

1  quart  of  water. 
1  lb.  of  sugar. 

Stir  up  well  and  ferment  in  a  clean,  sweet  cask,  leaving 
the  bung  out  When  the  working  subsides  dose  tightly, 
or  rack  off  into  bottles. 

This  is  said  by  those  who  have  tasted  it  to  be  very  good. 


Currant  Wine. 

Pick,  stem,  mash,  and  strain  the  currants,  which  should 
be  v^^rnpe. 


DBnrKs.  487 

To  1  quart  of  juice  add 
i  lb.  white  sugar. 
i  pint  of  water. 

Stir  all  together  long  and  well ;  put  into  a  clean  cask, 
leaving  out  the  bung,  and  covering  .the  whole  with  a  bit 
of  lace  or  mosquito  net.  Let  it  ferment  about  four  weeks 
— ^rack  off  when  it  is  quite  still,  and  bottle. 

Jamaica  Ginger-bees. 

1  bottle  Jamaica  Ginger  Extract. 
1  oz.  cream-tartar. 
6  quarts  water. 
1  lb.  sugar. 

Stir  until  the  sugar  is  melted,  then  put  in  the  grated 
peel  of  a  lemon,  and  heat  until  blood-warm.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  brewers'  yeast;  stir  well  and  bottle,  wiring 
down  the  corks.     It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  four  days. 

This  19  a  refreshing  and  healthful  beverage  mixed  with 
pounded  ice  in  hot  weather. 

Raisin  Wine. 

1  lb.  white  sugar. 

2  lbs.  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  lemon — all  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peeL 

2  gallons  boiling  water. 

Put  all  into  a  stone  jar,  and  stir  every  day  for  a  week. 
Strain,  then,  and  bottle  yit.  It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  ten 
days. 

Lemonade  or  Sherbet. 

3  lemons  to  a  quart  of  water. 
6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Pare  the  yellow  peel  from  the  lemons,  and,  unless  you 


488  GOMXOK  sxirsE. 

mean  to  use  the  Sherbet  immediately,  leave  it  out  ^  li 
gives  a  bitter  taste  to  the  sugar  if  left  loug  in  it.  Slice 
and  squeeae  the  lemons  upon  the  sugar,  add  a  ve^y  little 
water,  and  let  them  stand  fiileen  minutes.  Then  fill  up 
with  water ;  ice  well,  stir,  and  pour  out 

Orano£A]>e 

Is  made  in  the  same  manner,  substituting  oranges  for 
lemons. 

Strawberry  Sherbet.     {DeUdima.)  >{< 

1  quart  of  strawberries. 

3  pints  of  water. 

1  lemon — the  juice  only. 

1  tablespoon  ful  orange-flower  water. 

I  lb.  white  sugar. 

The  strawberries  should  be  fresh  and  ripe.  Crush  to  a 
smooth  paste ;  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  (except  the 
sugar),  and  let  it  stand  three  hours.  Strain  over  the 
sugar,  squeezing  the  cloth  hard ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved;  strain  again  and  set  in  ice  for  two  hours  or 
more  before  you  use  it 

Begent's  Punch.    (Fine.) 

1  lb.  loaf-sugar  or  rock  candy. 

1  large  cup  strong  black  tea — (made). 

3  wine-glasses  of  brandy. 

3    "        "  rum. 

1  bottle  champagne. 

2  oranges — juice  only. 
Siemens—     "       " 

1  large  lump  of  ice. 

This  receipt  was  given  me  by  a  gentleman  of  the  old 


DItlKKS.  489 

school,  a  connoisseur  in  the  matter  of  beverages  as  of 
cookery.  "Tell  your  readers/'  he  writes,  "that  better 
punch  was  never  brewed/'  I  give  receipt  and  message 
together. 

BoMAN  Punch. 

3  coffee  cups  of  lemonade — (strong  and  sweet) 
1  glass  champagne. 

1  "     rum. 

2  oranges — juice  only. 

2  eggs — ^whites  only — well  whipped. 

i  lb.  powdered  sugar,  beaten  into  the  stiffened  whites. 

You  must  ice  abundantly — or,  if  you  prefer,  freeze. 

Sherry  Cobbler. 

Several  slices  of  pineapple,  cut  in  quarters. 

A  lemon,  sliced  thin. 

An  orange.       " 

i  cup  of  powdered  sugar. 

1  tumbler  of  Sherry  wine. 

Ice- water. 

Pounded  ice. 

Take  a  wide-mouthed  quart  pitcher  and  lay  the  sliced 
fruit  in  order  at  the  bottom,  sprinkling  sugar  and  pounded 
ice  between  the  layers.  Cover  with  sugar  and  ice,  and 
let  all  stand  together  five  minutes.  Add  then  two  tum- 
blers of  water  and  all  the  sugar,  and  stir  well  to  dissolvej 
^  this.  Fill  the  pitcher  nearly  full  of  pounded  ice,  pour  in 
the  wine,  and  stir  up  from  the  bottom  until  the  ingre- 
dients are  thoroughly  mixed.  In  pouring  it  out  put  a 
slice  of  each  kind  of  fruit  in  each  goblet  before  adding 
the  liquid. 
It  is  best  sucked  through  a  straw  or  glass  tube« 


I 

21* 


4S0  GOMMOK  aSUBK. 

Nectab.  >i« 

Make  as  above,  substituting  a  little  rose-water  for  the 
pineapple,  and  squeezing  out  the  juice  of  the  orange  and 
lemon,  instead  of  putting  in  the  slices.  Sprinkle  nutmeg 
on  the  top. 

This  forms  a  delicious  and  refreshing  drink  for  invalids. 

CulrbtPukch.  >J< 

1  bottle  of  claret 

i  the  quantity  of  ice-water. 

2  lemons,  sliced. 

}  cup  powdered  sugar. 

Cover  the  sliced  lemon  with  sugar  and  let  it  stand  ten 
minutes.  Add  the  water ;  stir  hard  for  a  whole  minute, 
and  pour  in  the  wine.  Put  pounded  ice  in  each  glass  be- 
fore filling  with  the  mixture. 

Eoo  NoGG.  >I< 

6  eggs — ^whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very 

stiff. 
1  quart  rich  milk. 
}  cup  of  sugar. 
}  pint  best  brandy. 
Flavor  with  nutmeg. 

Stir  the  yolks  into  the  milk  with  the  sugar,  which 
should  first  be  beaten  with  the  yolks.  Next  comes  the 
brandy.    Lastly  whip  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs. 

Cherry  Bounce. 

4  lbs.  of  sour  and  the  same  quantity  of  sweet  dierries. 
2}  lbs.  white  sugar. 
1  gallon  best  whiskey. 

Crush  the  cherries  to  pieces  by  pounding  in  a  deep 


DBINKB.  491 

wooden  vessel  with  a  smooth  billet  of  wood.  Beat  hard 
enough  to  crack  all  the  stones.  Put  into  a  deep  stone  jar, 
mix  in  the  sugar  well,  and  cover  with  the  whiskey.  Shako 
around  briskly  and  turn  into  a  demijohn.  Cork  tightly 
and  let  it  stand  a  month,  shaking  it  every  day,  aud  another 
month  without  touching  it.     Then  strain  off  and  bottle. 

It  is  better  a  year  than  six  months  old. 

If  the  Maltese  cross  appears  but  seldom  in  the  section 
devoted  to  drinks,  it  is  because  most  of  my  information 
respecting  their  manufacture  is  second-hand.  In  my  own 
family  they  are  so  little  used,  except  in  sickness,  that  I 
should  not  dare  to  teach  others,  upon  my  own  authority, 
how  to  p)-epare  them.  Indeed,  the  temptation  I  felt  to 
omit  many  of  them  reminded  me  of  a  remark  made,  in- 
troductory of  preserves,  by  one  of  the  "  Complete  House- 
wives," who,  all  five  together,  drove  me  to  the  verge  of  an 
attack  of  congestion  of  the  brain,  before  I  had  been  a 
housekeeper  for  a  week.  Said  this  judicious  lady: — 
*'  Preserves  of  all  kinds  are  expensive  and  indigestible, 
and  therefore  poisonous.  Therefore" — ^again — ^"I  shall 
not  give  directions  for  their  m^ufacture,  except  to  re- 
mark that  barberries  stewed  in  molasses  are  economical, 
and  a  degree  less  hurtful  than  most  others  of  that  class  of 
compounds." 

Then  I  reflected  that  I  might,  upon  the  same  principle, 
exclude  all  receipts  in  which  cocoanut  is  used,  because  it 
is  rank  poison  to  me ;  while  a  dear  friend  of  mine  would 
as  soon  touch  arsenic  as  an  egg.  A  large  majority  of  the 
beverages  I  have  named  are  highly  medicinal,  and  deserve 
a  place  in  the  houisekeeper's  calendar  on  that  account 
Many,  so  far  from  being  hurtful,  are  beneficial  to  a  weak 
stomach  or  a  system  suffering  under  general  debility. 
None  which  contain  alcohol  in  any  shape  should  he  used 
daib/,  much  less  semir  or  trudaily  by  a  well  person. 


492  COBOCOK  BENBE. 

This  principle  reduced  to  practice  woald  prove  the 
preventive  ounce  which  would  cure,  all  over  the  land,  the 
need  for  Temperance  SocieUes  and  Inebriate  Asjlums. 


THE  SICK-ROOM. 

The  sick-chamber  should  be  the  most  quiet  and  cheerAil 
in  the  house — a  sacred  isle  past  which  the  waves  of  domes- 
tic toil  and  solicitude  glide  silently.  This  is  not  an  easy 
rule  to  obey.  Whoever  the  invalid  may  be,  whether  the 
mother,  father,  or  the  sweet  youngling  of  the  flock,  the 
foundations  of  the  household  seem  thrown  out  of  course 
while  the  sickness  lasts.  You  may  have  good  servants 
and  kind  friends  to  aid  you,  but  the  hitch  in  the  machinery 
is  not  to  be  smoothed  out  by  their  efforts.  The  irregularity 
does  not  annoy  you :  you  do  not  notice  it  if  the  attack  be 
severe  or  dangerous.  All  other  thoughts  are  swallowed 
up  in  the  all-absorbing,  ever-present  alarm.  You  count 
nothing  an  inconvenience  that  can  bring  present  relief,  or 
possible  healing  to  the  beloved  one ;  disdain  for  yourself 
rest  or  ease  while  the  shadow  hangs  above  the  pillow 
crushed  by  the  helpless  head.  But  when  it  passes,  when 
the  first  transport  of  thankfulness  has  subsided  into  an 
abiding  sense  of  safety,  the  mind  swings  back  to  the 
accustomed  pivot,  and  your  eyes  seem  to  be  suddenly  un- 
bound. You  find,  with  dismay,  that  the  children  have 
run  wild,  and  the  comfort  of  the  whole  family  been 
neglected  during  your  confinement  to  the  post  of  most 
urgent  duty ;  with  displeasure,  that  the  servants  have,  as 
you  consider,  taken  advantage  of  your  situation  to  omit 
this  task,  and  to  slur  over  that ; — in  fine,  that  nothing  has 
been  done  well,  and  so  many  things  left  altogether  undone^ 


THE  8ICK*BOOU.  493 

chat  jou  are  "  worried  out  of  your  senses  " — a  phrase  tliat 
too  often  signifies  out  of  your  temper. 

And  it  is  just  at  this  juncture — when  you  are  called  to 
fifty  points  of  attention  and  labor  at  once,  and  are  on  the 
verge  of  despair  at  the  conglomeration  worse  conglomerated 
arising  before  you ;  fidgetting  to  pick  up  dropped  stitches 
in  the  web  you  were  wont  to  keep  so  even — that  the  in- 
valid becomes  most  exacting.  "  Unreasonable,"  you  name 
it  to  yourself,  even  though  it  be  John  himself  who  calls 
upon  you  every  third  minute  for  some  little  office  of  loving- 
kindness ;  who  wants  to  be  amused  and  fed  and  petted^ 
and  made  generally  comfortable  as  if  he  were  a  six-months- 
old  baby ;  who  never  remembers  that  you  must  be  wearied 
out  with  watching  and  anxiety,  and  that  everything  below- 
stairs  is  going  to  destruction  for  the  want  of  a  balance- 
wheel.  The  better  he  loves  you  the  more  apt  is  he  to  fancy 
that  nobody  but  you  can  do  anything  for  him  ;  the  more 
certain  to  crave  something  which  no  one  else  knows  how 
to  prepare.  And  when  you  have  strained  muscle  and 
patience  a  little  further  to  get  it  ready,  and  with  prudent 
foresight  made  enough  to  last  for  several  meals,  it  is  more 
than  probable  that  his  fickle  taste  will  suggest  something 
entirely  difierent  for  "  next  time."  '^  Just  for  a  change, 
you  know,  dear.  One  gets  so  tired  of  eating  the  same 
thing  so  often  I " 

He  might  be  more,  considerate — less  childish — ^you 
think,  turning  away  that  he  may  not  see  your  change  of 
countenance.  When  you  have  taken  so  much  pains  to 
suit  him  exactly !  It  is  harder  yet  when  he  refuses  to 
do  more  than  taste  the  delicacy  you  hoped  would  tempt 
him. 

"It  is  very  nice,  I  suppose,  my  love,"  says  the  poor 
fellow,  with  the  air  of  a  martyr.  "  But  it  does  not  taste 
right,  somehow.    Maybe  the  children  can  dispose  of  it   If 


494  OOMHOir  BENBB. 

I  had  a  lemon  ice,  or  some  wine  jelly  such  as  my  mother 
used  to  make,  I  am  sure  I  could  relish  it  I  always  did 
detest  sick  peoples'  diet  1 " 

K  he  is  very  much  shaken  as  to  nerves,  he  will  be  likely 
to  say,  "m«Me«.*' 

"  I  am  fedrly  wild !  "  said  a  loving  wife  and  mother,  and 
thrifty  housekeeper,  to  me  one  day,  when  I  called  to  see 
her. 

She  had  just  nursed  her  husband  and  three  children 
through  the  influenza.  All  had  been  down  with  it  at 
once.  That  form  of  demoniacal  possession  is  generally 
conducted  upon  the  wholesale  principle.  One  of  her  ser- 
vants had  left  in  disgust  at  the  increased  pressure  of  work ; 
the  weather  was  rainy,  blowy,  raw ;  the  streets  were  muddy, 
and  there  was  no  such  thing  as  keeping  steps  and  halls 
clean,  while  the  four  invalids  were  cross  as  only  toothache 
or  influenza  can  make  human  beings. 

•*  I  am  fairly  wild ! "  said  the  worthy  creature,  with 
tears  in  her  eyes.  "  1  cannot  snatch  a  minute,  from  morn- 
ing until  night,  to  put  things  straight,  and  yet  I  am  almost 
tired  to  death  I  I  was  saying  to  myself  as  you  came  in, 
that  I  wouldn't  try  any  longer.  I  would  just  sit  still  until 
the  dirt  was  piled  up  to  my  chin,  and  then  I  would  get  upon 
ihe  table  r 

How  often  I  have  thought  of  her  odd  speech  since  I 
sometimes  with  a  smile — more  frequently  with  a  sigh. 
But  with  all  my  pity  for  the  nurse  and  housekeeper,  I 
cannot  conceal  from  myself— I  would  not  forget,  or  let  you 
forget  for  a  moment — the  truth  that  the  sick  one  is  the 
greater  sufferer.  It  is  never  pleasant  to  be  laid  upon  the 
shelf.  The  resting-place — falsely  so-called — is  hard  and 
narrow  and  uneven  enough,  even  when  the  tramp  of  the 
outer  world  does  not  jar  the  sore  and  jaded  frame ;  when 
(here  is  no  apparent  need  for  the  sick  person  to  be  upon 


THE  81CK-BOOM.  496 

kis  feet,  and  for  anght  that  others  can  see,  or  he  can  say, 
he  might  just  as  well  stay  where  he  is  for  a  month  or  two. 
But  when,  the  rack  of  pain  having  been  removed,  the 
dulled  perceptions  of  the  mind  re-awaken  to  sensitiveness, 
and  there  comes  to  his  ear  the  bugle-call  of  duty — sharp, 
imperative ; — when  every  idle  moment  speaks  to  him  of  a 
slain  opportunity,  and  the  no  longer  strong  man  shakes 
his  fetters  with  piteous  cries  against  fate,  do  not  despise,  or 
be  impatient  with  him.  He  is  feverish  and  inconsiderate 
and  capricious  because  he  is  not  himself.  You  see  only 
the  poor  wreck  left  by  the  demon  as  he  tore  his  way  out 
of  him  at  the  Divine  command.  Gather  it  up  lovingly  in 
your  arms,  and  nurse  it  back  to  strength  and  comeliness. 
The  sick  should  always  be  the  chief  object  of  thought  and 
care  with  all  in  the  household.  If  need  be,  let  the  dirt  lie 
chin-deep  everywhere  else,  so  long  as  it  is  kept  out  of  that 
one  room.  There  be  jealous  in  your  care  that  nothing 
ofifends  sight  and  smell. 

There  should  be  no  smell  in  a  sick-chamber.  To  avoid 
this,  let  in  the  air  ireely  and  often.  Cologne-water  will 
not  dispel  a  foul  odor,  while  disinfectants  are  noisome  in 
themselves.  Bathe  the  patient  as  frequently  and  thor- 
oughly as  prudence  will  allow,  and  change  hb  clothing, 
with  the  bed-linen,  every  day.  Do  not  keep  the  medicines 
where  he  can  see  them,  nor  ever  let  him  witness  the  mix- 
ing of  that  which  he  is  to  swallow.  So  soon  as  his  meals 
are  over,  remove  every  vestige  of  them  from  the  room. 
Even  a  soiled  spoon,  lying  on  table  or  bureau,  may  offend 
his  fastidious  appetite.  Cover  the  stand  or  waiter  from 
which  he  eats  with  a  spotless  napkin,  and  serve  his  food  in 
your  daintiest  ware. 

My  heart  softens  almost  to  tearfulness  when  I  recall  the 
hours,  days,  weeks,  I  have  myself  spent  in  the  chamber  oi 
languishing,  and  the  ingenuity  of  tenderness  that,  from  my 


496  COMMOK  SEHSB. 

babyhood,  has  striven  to  cheat  the  imprisonment  of  wean* 
ness,  and  make  me  forget  pain  and  uselessuess.  Tbe 
pretty  surprises  daily  invented  for  my  entertainment ;  the 
exceeding  nicety  with  which  they  were  set  out  before  me ; 
the  loving  words  that  nourished  my  spirit  when  the  bodj 
was  faint  unto  death, — these  are  events,  not  slight  inci- 
dents, in  the  book  of  memory.  When  I  cease  to  be  grate- 
ful  for  them,  or  to  learn  from  them  how  to  minister  unto 
others  of  the  like  consolation,  may  my  heart  forget  to  beat, 
my  right  hand  lose  her  cunning  ! 

Do  not  ask  your  charge  what  he  would  like  to  eat  to- 
day. He  will,  of  a  surety,  sicken  with  the  effort  at  seleo- 
tion,  and  say,  "  Nothing ! "  But  watch  attentively  for  the 
slightest  intimation  of  a  desire  tor  any  particular  delicacy, 
and  if  you  are  assured  that  it  cannot  hurt  him,  procure  it» 
if  you  can,  without  letting  him  guess  at  your  intention. 
Feed  him  lightly  and  often,  never  bringing  more  into  his 
flight  than  he  may  safely  eat.  A  big  bowl  of  broth  or  jelly 
will  either  tempt  him  to  imprudence,  or  discourage  him. 
''Am  I  to  be  burdened  with  all  that?''  cries  the  affrighted 
stomach,  and  will  have  none  of  it.  While  he  is  very 
weak,  feed  him  with  your  own  hand,  playfully,  as  you 
would  a  child,  talking  cheerily  of  something  besides  his 
food,  and  coaxing  him  into  taking  the  needed  nutriment 
as  only  a  wife  and  mother  can,  or  as  nobody  but  John 
could  beguile  you  to  effort  in  the  same  direction. 

Study  ail  pleasant  and  soothing  arts  to  while  away  the 
time,  and  keep  worry  of  every  kind  away  from  him.  A 
trifle  at  which  you  can  laugh  will  be  a  burden  to  the  en* 
feebled  mind  and  body,  and  he  has  nothing  to  do  but  lie 
Btill  and  roll  it  over  until  it  swells  into  a  mountain.  When 
he  can  be  removed  without  danger,  let  him  have  his  meals 
in  another  room,  changing  the  air  of  each  when  he  is  not 
in  it    Every  one  who  has  suffered  from  long  sicknea 


THE  BICK-BOOH.  497 

knows  the  peculiar  loathing  attendant  upon  the  idea  that 
all  food  is  tainted  with  the  atmosphere  of  the  chamber  in 
which  it  is  served,  and  if  eaten  iu  bed,  tastes  of  the  mat- 
tress and  pillows.  The  room  and  all  in  it  maj  be  clean, 
fresh,  and  sweet,  but  the  fiincj  cannot  be  dismissed.  And 
it  is  wiser  to  humor  than  to  reason  with  most  sick  fancies. 

A  hired  nurse  is  a  useful,  often  a  necessary  thing,  but 
while  you  are  upon  your  feet,  and  mistress  of  your  own 
house,  delegate  to  no  one  the  precious  task  of  catering  for 
the  dear  sufferer.  It  is  an  art  in  itself.  I  hope  a  practical 
knowledge  of  it  will  be  taught  in  Women's  Medical  Col- 
leges, when  they  are  an  established  '^institution  "  with  us. 

I  wish  it  were  proper  to  record  here  the  name  of  one  of 
the  kindest  and  best  family  physicians  I  ever  knew,  who 
had  charge  of  my  not  very  firm  health  during  my  girlhood. 
He  owed  much — I  suppose  no  one  ever  knew  really  how 
much — of  his  success  in  his  practice  to  his  tact  and  skill 
in  devising  palatable  and  suitable  nourishment  for  his 
patients.  I  well  remember  the  childish  pleasure  with 
which  I  would  hear  him  say  when  the  violence  of  the 
attack  had  passed — "  Now,  my  dear  child,  we  must  begin 
with  kitchen  physic  I "  and  the  glow  of  amused  expectation 
with  which  I  used  to  watch  him,  as,  with  an  arch  show  of 
mystery,  he  would  beckon  my  mother  from  the  room  tc 
receive  his  "  prescription ; "  the  impatience  with  which  I 
awaited  the  result  of  the  conference,  and  the  zest  with 
which  I  ate  whatever  he  ordered. 

If  I  could  have  persuaded  him  to  manage  this  depart- 
ment of  my  work,  it  would  win  for  me  the  degree  of  M.D. 
with  a  new  meaning — Mistress  of  Dietetics. 


^98  OOMMON  sEsms. 

THE  SICKROOM. 
Beef  Tea.  >{« 

1  lb.  lean  beef,  cut  into  small  pit  oes. 

Put  into  a  jar  without  a  drop  of  water ;  cover  tightlj, 
and  set  in  a  pot  of  cold  water.  Heat  gradually  to  a  boil, 
and  continue  this  steadily  for  three  or  four  hours,  until  the 
meat  is  like  white  rags,  and  the  juice  all  drawn  out.  Sea- 
son with  salt  to  taste,  and  when  cold,  skim.  The  patient 
will  often  'prefer  this  ice-cold  to  hot.  Serve  with  Albert 
biscuit  or  thin  "  wafers,"  unleavened,  made  by  a  receipt 
given  under  the  head  of  Bread. 

AuTTON  Bboth.  >{« 

1  lb.  lean  mutton  or  lamb,  cut  small. 

1  quart  water — cold. 

1  tablespoonfiil  rice,  or  barley,  soaked  in  a  very  little 

warm  water. 
4  toblespoonfuls  milk. 
Salt  and  pepper,  with  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Boil  the  meat,  unsalted,  in  the  water,  keeping  it  closely 
covered,  until  it  falls  to  pieces.  Strain  it  out,  skim,  add 
the  soaked  barley  or  rice ;  simmer  half  an  hour,  stirring 
often ;  stir  in  the  seasoning  and  the  milk,  and  simmer  five 
minutes  after  it  heats  up  well,  taking  care  it  does  not 
burn. 

Serve  hot  with  cream  cracketii. 

Chicken  Broth.  >{« 

Is  excellent  made  in  the  same  manner  as  mutton,  crack* 
ing  the  bones  well  before  you  put  in  the  fowl. 


the  sick-room.  499 

Veal  and  Sago  Broth. 

2  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal,  cracked  all  to  pieces. 

2  quarts  of  cold  water. 

3  tablespoonfuls  best  pearl  sago,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  cold 
water. 

1  cup  cream,  heated  to  boiling. 
Yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten  light. 

Boil  the  yeal  and  water  in  a  covered  saucepan  very 
slowly  until  reduced  to  one  quart  of  liquid ;  strain,  skim, 
season  with  salt,  and  stir  in  the  soaked  sago  (having  pre- 
viously warmed  it  by  setting  for  half  an  hour  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water,  and  stirring  from  time  to  time.) 
Simmer  half  an  hour,  taking  care  it  does  not  bum;  beat 
in  the  cream  and  eggs ;  give  one  good  boil  up,  and  turn 
out. 

This  is  excellent  for  consumptives. 

Beef  and  Sago  Broth. 

2  lbs.  of  beef — cut  up  small. 
2  quarts  of  water. 

1  cup  of  sago,  soaked  soft  in  a  little  lukewarm  water. 
Yolks  of  three  eggs. 
Salt-to  taste. 

Stew  the  beef  until  it  falls  to  pieces ;  strain  it  out,  salt 
the  liquid  and  stir  in  the  sago.  Simmer  gently  one  hour, 
stirring  often.  Add  the  beaten  yolks :  boil  up  once  and 
serve. 

This  is  a  strengthening  and  nice  soup.  Eat  with  dry 
toast 


500  COMMON  ssnsE. 

Arrowroot  Jellt  (plain )  ^ 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  best  Bermuda  arrowroot 

1  teaspooDful  lemon  juice. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar. 

Wet  the  arrowroot  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  rub 
smooth.  Then  stir  into  the  hot,  which  should  be  on  the 
fire  and  actually  boiling  at  the  time,  with  the  sugar  al- 
ready melted  in  it.  Stir  until  clear,  boiling  steadily  all 
the  while,  and  add  the  lemon.  Wet  a  cup  in  cold  water, 
and  pour  in  the  jelly  to  form.  Eat  cold  with  sugar  and 
cream  flavored  with  rose-water. 

An  invaluable  preparation  in  cases  where  wine  is  for- 
bidden. 

Arrowroot  Wine  Jelly.  ^ 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  arrowroot 
2       "        white  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  brandy  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  wine. 

An  excellent  corrective  to  weak  bowels. 

Arrowroot  Blanc  mange.  >{< 

1  cupful  boiling  milk. 

2  dessertspoonfuls  best  arrowroot,  rubbed  smooth  in 
cold  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 
Vanilla  or  other  essence. 

Boil  until  it  thickens  well,  stirring  all  the  while.  Eat 
cold  with  cream,  flavored  with  rose-water,  and  sweetened 
to  taste. 

Sago 
May  be  substituted  for  arrowroot  in  any  of  the  foregoing 


THB  fiG^CX-BOOM.  601 

receipts,  when  you  have  soaked  it  an  hour  in  water 
poured  over  it  cold,  and  gradually  warmed  by  setting  the 
cup  containing  it  in  hot  water.  Boil  rather  longer  than 
you  do  the  arrowroot. 

Sago  Gruel.  >{< 

2  cups  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sago. 

3  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 
1  glass  of  wine. 

1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 
Nutmeg  to  taste,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Put  the  sago  in  the  water  while  cold,  and  warm  by 
setting  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Stir  often,  and  let 
it  soften  and  heat  for  one  hour.  Then  bail  ten  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  while ;  add  the  sugar,  wine,  and  lemon, 
and  pour  into  a  bowl  or  mould  to  cool.  Eat  warm,  if 
preferred.  The  wine  and  nutmeg  should  be  omitted  if 
the  patient  be  feverish. 

Indian  Meal  Gruel.  >J< 

2  quarts -Of  boiling  water. 

1  cup  of  Indian  meal,  and 

1  tablespoonful  flour,  wet  up  with  cold  water. 

Salt  to  taste — and,  if  you  like,  sugar  and  nutmeg. 

Wet  the  meal  and  flour  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  stir  into 
the  water  while  it  is  actually  boiling.  Boil  slowly  one 
hour,  stirring  up  well  from  the  bottom.  Season  with  salt 
to  taste.  Some  sweeten  it,  but  I  like  it  better  with  a  little 
pepper  added  to  the  salt. 

If  a  cathartic  is  desired,  omit  the  wheat  flour  altogether. 


602  common  sehse. 

Oatmeal  Oruel 
Is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Milk  and  Rice  Gruel. 

1  quart  boiling  milk. 
•  2  tablespoonfuls  (heaping)  of  ground  rioe,  wet  with  cold 
milk. 
1  saltspoonfui  of  salt* 

Stir  in  the  rice-paste  and  .boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  while.  Season  with  sugar  and  nutmeg,  and  eat  warm 
with  cream. 

You  may  use  Indian  meal  instead  of  rice-flour,  which 
is  an  astringent.    In  this  case,  boil  an  hour. 

Dried  Flour  for  Teething  Children. 

1  cup  of  flour,  tied  in  a  stout  muslin  bag  and  droppe<{ 
into  cold  water,  then  set  over  the  fire. 

Bail  three  hours  steadily.  Turn  out  the  flour  ball 
and  dry  in  the  hot  sun  all  day ;  or,  if  you  need  it  at  once, 
dry  in  a  moderate  oven  without  shutting  the  door. 

To  tise  it — 

Grate  a  tablespoonful  for  a  cupful  of  boiling  milk  and 
water  (half  and  half).  Wet  up  the  flour  with  a  very  lit- 
tle cold  water,  stir  in  and  boil  five  minutes.  Put  in  a  lit- 
tle salt. 

Tapioca  Jellt.  >!<  {Very good.) 

1  cup  of  tapioca. 

3  cups  of  cold  water. 

Juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  pinch  of  the  grated  peel. 

Sweeten  to  taste. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  water  four  hours.     Set  within 


r 


THSr  SICK-BOOM.  503 

SI  saucepan  of  boiling  water ;  pour  more  lukewarm  water 
over  the  tapioca  if  it  has  absorbed  too  much  of  the  liquid, 
and  heat,  stirring  frequently.  If  too  thick  after  it  begins 
to  clear,  put  in  a  very  little  boiling  water  When  quite 
clear,  put  in  the  sugar  and  lemon.  Pour  into  moulds. 
Eat  cold,  with  cream  flavored  with  rose-water  and 
sweetened. 

Tapioca  Blanc-mange.  >J< 

1  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  in  two  cups  cold  water. 

3  cups  boiling  milk. 

3  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

Bose-water  or  vanilla. 

Soak  the  tapioca  four  hours,  and  stir,  with  the  water  in 
which  it  was  soaked,  into  the  boiling  milk.  Sweeten  and 
boil  slowly,  stirring  all  the  while,  fifteen  minutes.  Take 
off,  flavor  and  pour  into  moulds. 

Eat  cold  with  cream.  Wash  tapioca  well  before  soaking. 

Arrowboot  Custard.  (iVicc.) 

2  cups  of  hailing  milk. 

3  heaping  teaspoonfuls  arrowroot,  wet  up  with  a  little 
cold  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar,  beaten  with  the  egg. 
1  egg  very  well  beaten. 

Mix  the  arrowroot  p&ste  with  the  boiling  milk;  stir 
three  minutes ;  take  from  the  fire  and  whip  in  the  egg  and 
sugar.  Boil  two  minutes  longer,  flavor  with  vanilla  oi 
rose-water,  and  pour  into  moulds. 

Rice-Flour  Milk. 

2  cups  of  milk,  boiling. 

2  tablespoonfuls  rice-flour,  wet  up  with  cold  milk. 

2  '^  white  sugar. 


604  COMMON  BENBE. 

Boil  ten  minntes,  stirring  all  the  while,  and  flavor  to 
tafite.    Eat  warm  with  cream. 

Sago  Milk.  >{« 

3  tablespoonfbls  sago,  soaked  in  a  large  cup  cold  water 

one  hour. 
3  cupe  boiling  milk. 
Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste. 

Simmer  slowly  half  an  hour.     Eat  warm. 

Tapioca  Milk. 
Is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Boiled  Bice.  >{« 

i  cup  whole  rice,  boiled  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  it 

1    «    ofmUk. 

A  little  salt 

1  egg,  beaten  light 

When  the  rice  is  nearly  done,  turn  ofi"  the  water,  add 
the  milk  and  simmer — ^tdcing  care  it  does  not  scorch — 
until  the  milk  boils  up  well.     Salt,  and  beat  in  the  egg. 

Eat  warm  with  cream,  sugar,  and  nutmeg. 

Panada.  ^ 

6  Boston  crackers,  split 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

A  good  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

Enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them  well. 

Split  the  crackers,  and  pile  in  a  bowl  in  layers,  salt 
and  sugar  scattered  among  them.  Cover  with  boiling 
water  and  set  on  the  hearth,  with  a  close  top  over  the 
howK  for  at  least  one  hour.  The  crackers  should  be 
almost  clear  and  soft  as  jelly,  but  not  broken. 


TBE  SICK-ROOM.  505 

Eat  from  the  bowl,  with  more  sugar  sprinkled  in  if  you 
wish  it     If  properly  made,  this  panada  is  very  nice. 

Bbead  Panada,  ob  Jelly.  ^ 

Pare  some  slices  of  stale  baker's  bread  and  toast  nicely, 
without  burning.  Pile  in  a  bowl,  sprinkling  sugar  and  a 
very  little  salt  between ;  cover  well  with  bailing  water,  and 
set,  with  a  tight  lid  upon  the  top,  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water.  Simmer  gently,  until  the  contents  of  the  bowl  are 
like  jelly.    Eat  warm  with  powdered  sugar  and  nutmeg. 

Chicken  Jellt.     (  Very  nourishing,)  ^ 
Half  a  raw  chicken,  pounded  with  a  mallet,  bones  and 

meat  together. 
Plenty  of  cold  water  to  cover  it  well — about  a  quart 

Heat  slowly  in  a  covered  vessel,  and  let  it  simmer  until 
the  meat  is  in  white  rags  and  the  liquid  reduced  one  half. 
Strain  and  press,  first  through  a  cullender,  then  through  a 
coarse  cloth.  Salt  to  taste,  and  pepper,  if  you  think  best ; 
return  to  the  fire,  and  simmer  five  minutes  longer.  Skim 
when  cool.  Give  to  the  patient  cold — just  from  the  ice — 
with  unleavened  wafers.  Keep  on  the  ice.  You  can 
make  into  sandwiches  by  putting  the  jelly  between  thin 
slices  of  bread  spread  lightly  with  butter. 

Calves'  Feet  Broth. 

2  calves'  feet 

2  quarts  cold  water. 

1  egg,  beaten  up  with  two  tablespoonfuls  milk  for  each 

cupful  of  broth. 
Pepper  and  salt 

Boil  the  feet  to  shreds;  strain  the  liquor  through  a 
22 


506  ODHMOK  BEHSB. 

double  muslin  bag ;  season  to  taste,  and  set  by  for  use,  as 
you  need  it  Warm  by  the  small  quantity,  allowing  to 
each  cupful  a  beaten  egg  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 
Qive  a  good  boil  up  to  cook  these,  and  serve  with  thin, 
crisp  toast  If  the  patient  can  take  it,  a  dash  of  lemon- 
juioe  improves  the  broth. 

Toast  Watkb.  + 

Slioes  of  toast,  nicely  browned,  without  a  symptom  of  burn- 
ing. 
Enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them. 

Cover  closely,  and  let  them  steep  until  cold.  Strain  the 
water,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  put  a  piece  of  ice  in  each  glaas^ 
fill.  If  the  physician  thinks  it  safe,  add  a  little  lemon- 
juice. 

Apple  Water.  ^ 

1  large  juicy  pippin,  the  most  finely-flavored  you  can 

get 
3  cups  of  cold  water — 1  quart  if  the  apple  b  very 

large. 

Pare  and  quarter  the  apple,  but  do  not  core  it  Put  it 
on  the  fire  in  a  tin  or  porcelain  saucepan  with  the  water, 
and  boil,  closely  covered,  until  the  apple  stews  to  pieces. 
Strain  the  liquor  at  once,  pressing  the  apple  hard  in  the 
cloth.  Strain  this  again  through  a  finer  bag,  and  set 
away  to  cool.  Sweeten  with  white  sugar,  and  ice  for 
drinking. 

It  is  a  refreshing  and  palatable  drink. 

Jelly  Water.  >i< 

1  large  teaspoonful  currant  or  cranberry  jelly. 
1  goblet  ice-water. 


THB  BICK<>BOOM.  607 

Beat  up  well  for  a  fever-patient 

Wild  cherry  or  blackberry  jelly  is  excellent^  prepared 
in  like  manner  for  those  suffering  with  summer  complaint. 

Flax-beed  Lemonade.  ^ 

4  tablespoonfuls  flax-seed  (whole.) 
1  quart  boiling  water  poured  upon  the  flax-seed. 
Juice  of  two  lemons,  leaving  out  the  peeL 
Sweeten  to  taste. 

Steep  three  hours  in  a  covered  pitcher.  If  too  thick, 
put  in  cold  water  with  the  lemon-juice  and  sugar.  Ice 
for  drinking. 

It  is  admirable  for  colds. 

Slippery-elm  Bark  Tea. 

Break  the  bark  into  bits,  pour  boiling  water  over  it, 
cover  and  let  it  infuse  until  cold.  Sweeten,  ice,  and  take 
for  summer  disorders,  or  add  lemon-juice  and  drink  for  » 
bad  cold. 

Apple  Toddy.  ^ 

Boil  a  large  juicy  pippin  in  a  quart  of  water,  and  when 
it  has  broken  to  pieces  strain  off  the  water.  While  it  is 
still  boiling-hot,  add  a  glass  of  fine  old  whiskey,  a  little 
lemon-juice,  .and  sweeten  to  taste. 

Take  hot  at  bed-time  for  influenza. 

Milk  Punch.  >}< 

1  tumbler  of  milk,  well  sweetened. 

2  tablespoonfuls  best  brandy,  well  stirred  in. 

I  have  known  very  sick  patients  to  be  kept  alive  for 
days  at  a  time  by  this  mixture,  and  nothing  else,  until 
Nature  could  rally  her  forces.    Give  very  cold  with  ice. 


508  oommok  8eh8b. 

Ego  and  Milk  Punch  4* 
Is  made  by  the  preceding  receipt,  with  an  egg  beaten  veiy 
light  with  the  sugar,  and  stirred  in  before  the  brandy  is 
added. 

Iceland  or  Irish  Moss  Lemonade.  4< 

1  handful  Irish  or  Iceland  moss,  washed  in  five  waters. 

2  quarts  boiling  water,  poured  upon  the  moss,  and  left 

until  cold. 
2  lemons,  peeled  and  sliced,  leaving  out  the  peel. 
Sweeten  very  well  and  ice. 

Do  not  strain,  and  if  it  thicken  too  much,  add  cold 

water. 
Excellent  for  feverish  colds  and  all  pulmonary  troubles. 

Iceland  or  Irish  Moss  Jelly.  ^ 
1  handful  moss,  washed  in  five  waters,  and  soaked  an 
hour. 

1  quart  boiling  water. 

2  lemons — the  juice  only. 
1  glass  of  wine. 

i  teaspoonful  cinnamon.     (Measure  scantily.) 

Soak  the  washed  moss  in  a  very  little  cold  water ;  stir 
into  the  boiling,  aud  simmer  until  it  is  dissolved.  Sweeten, 
flavor,  and  strain  into  moulds.  You  may  use  two  glasses 
of  cider  instead  of  one  of  wine  for  a  fever-patient,  putting 
in  a  little  less  water. 

Gk>od  for  colds,  and  very  nourishing. 

Sea-moss  Blanc-mange 

Is  made  in  the  same  way,  using  boiling  milk  instead  of 
water,  and  leaving  out  the  lemons  and  wine.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  or  rose-water. 


the  bick-kooil  609 

Dry  Toast. 

Pare  off  the  crust  from  stale  light  bread  ;  slice  half  an 
inch  thick  and  toast  guiekly.  Graham  bread  is  very  nice 
toasted. 

Butter  lightly  if  the  patient  can  eat  butter. 

Baked  Toast.  SB 

Toast  as  just  directed ;  dip  each  slice,  as  it  comes  from 
the  toaster,  in  boiling  milk;  butter,  salt,  and  lay  in  a 
deep  covered  dish.  Have  ready  in  a  saucepan  enough 
boiling  milk  to  cover  all  well.  When  your  slices  are 
packed,  salt  this  slightly ;  melt  in  it  a  bit  of  butter,  and 
pour  over  them.  Cover  closely  and  let  it  stand  in  the 
oven  ten  minutes  before  using  it.  It  is  excellent  when 
made  of  Graham  bread. 

This  is  a  good  dish  for  a  family  tea  as  well  as  for  in- 
valids. 

Unleavened  Biscuit,  or  Wafers.  ^ 

Mix  good,  dry  flour  to  a  stiff  dough  with  milk ;  salt, 
and  roll  out  thin.  Cut  into  round  cakes  and  roll  these 
again  almost  as  thin  as  letter-paper.     Bake  very  quickly. 

They  may  also  be  mixed  with  water.  These  are  very 
simple  and  palatable,  and  go  well  with  all  kinds  of  broth, 
especially  oyster-soup. 

Dried  Rusk.     (See  Bread.) 

Beef  Steak  and  Mutton  Chops. 

Choose  the  tenderest  cuts  and  broil  over  a  clear  hot  fire 
with  your  wisest  skill.  Let  the  steak  be  rare — the  chops 
well-done.  Salt  and  pepper,  lay  between  two  hot  plates 
three  minutes,  and  serve  to  your  patient    If  he  is  very 


610  COMMON  8EKBB* 

weak,  do  not  let  him  swallow  anytbiog  except  the  juicci 
when  he  has  chewed  the  meat  well. 

The  essence  of  rare  beef — ^roast  or  broiled — ^thns  ex- 
pressed, IS  considered  by  some  physicians  to  be  more 
strengthening  than  beef-tea,  prepared  in  the  usual  manner. 

Sanqaree  or  Porteree. 

One-third  wine  or  porter  mixed  with  two-thirds  cold 
water.    Sweeten,  grate  nutm^  on  the  top,  and  ice. 

Serve  dry  toast  with  it  Taken  hot,  it  is  good  for  a  sud- 
den cold. 

Wine  Whey. 

1  pint  boiling  milk. 

1  large  glass  palo  wine,  poured  in  when  the  milk  is 
scalding  hot.  Boil  up  once,  remove  from  the  fire  and  let 
it  cool.  Do  not  stir  it  after  the  wine  is  put  in.  When  the 
curd  forms,  draw  off  the  whey  and  sweeten. 

Herb  Teas 

Are  made  by  infhsing  the  dried  or  green  leaves  and  stalks 
in  boiling  water,  and  letting  them  stand  until  cold. 
Sweeten  to  taste. 

Sage  tea,  'sweetened  with  honey,  is  good  for  a  sore 
throat,  used  as  a  gargle,  with  a  small  bit  of  alum  dissolved 
in  It 

Catnip  tea  is  the  best  panacea  for  infant  ills,  in  the  way 
of  cold  and  colic,  known  to  nurses. 

Pennyroyal  tea  will  often  avert  the  unpleasant  conse- 
quences of  a  sudden  check  of  perspiration,  or  the  evils  in- 
duced  by  ladies'  thin  shoes. 

Chamomile  and  gentian  teas  are  excellent  tonics  taken 
wther  cold  or  hot 

The  tea  made  from  blackberry-root  is  said  to  be  good 


THE  KUB8ERT.  511 

for  summer  disorders.  That  from  green  strawberry  leaves 
is  an  admirable  and  soothing  wash  for  a  cankered  mouth. 

Tea  of  parsley-root  scraped  and  steeped  in  boiling  water, 
taken  warm,  will  often  cure  strangury  and  kindred  affec- 
tions, as  will  that  made  from  dried  pumpkin-seed. 

Tansy  and  rue  teas  are  useful  in  cases  of  colic,  as  are 
fennel  seeds  steeped  in  brandy. 

A  tea  of  damask-rose  leaves,  dry  or  fresh,  will  usually 
subdue  any  simple  case  of  summer  complaint  in  infants. 

Mint  tea,  made  from  the  green  leaves,  crushed  in  cold 
or  hot  water  and  sweetened,  is  palatable  and  healing  to 
the  stomach  and  bowels. 

Miirr  Julep.  >{< 

Some  sprigs  of  green  mint,  slightly  bruised  in  a  tumbler 
with  a  teaspoon.  Put  in  a  generous  teaspoonful  of  white 
sugar;  add  gradually,  stirring  and  rubbing  lightly,  enough 
water  to  fill  the  glass  three-quarters  of  the  way  to  the  top. 
Fill  up  with  pounded  ice ;  stir  hard ;  pour  into  a  larger 
glass  that  you  may  shake  up  well,  and  put  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  fine  brandy. 

This  is  called  a  **  hail-storm  julep." 

Eau  Sucre.  >{< 

Dissolve  three  or  four  lumps  of  loaf  sugar  in  a  glass  of 
ice-water,  and  take  a  teaspoonful  every  few  minutes  for  a 
"  tickling  in  the  throat,"  or  a  hacking  cough.  Keep  it  ice- 
cold. 

A  simple,  but  often  an  efiicacious  remedy. 


THE  NURSERY. 

All  food  intended  for  infants  should  be  very  thoroughly 
cooked.     The    numerous    varieties    of   farinaceous   sub- 


512  COMMON  BENBB. 

BtanoeB — biscotine*  farina,  rice-flour,  arrowroot,  etc,  how- 
ever nourishing  may  be  their  properties  when  rightly 
prepared,  are  harsh  and  drastic  when  underdone.  Unless 
you  have  a  nurse  whom  you  know  for  yourself  to  be  fiuth- 
fiil  and  experienced,  always  superintend  the  cooking  of 
baby's  food.  It  can  do  no  harm — ^it  may  prevent  much — 
if  you  examine  it  every  day  to  see  that  it  is  right  as  to 
quality  and  quantity.  Do  not  aim  at  variety  in  this 
branch  of  your  profession.  Confine  a  child  under  three 
years  of  age  to  a  very  limited  bill  of  fare.  His  stomach 
is  too  delicate  an  organ  to  be  tampered  with.  Let  milk — 
sterilized  in  warm  weather,  and  always  until  baby  is  a  year 
old — ^be  the  staple.  Remove  &r  from  him  hot  bread  and 
griddle-cakes.  When  he  has  cut  his  carnivorous  teeth, 
Nature  says — **  This  creature  wants  meat"  And  Nature's 
supply  is  seldom  in  advance  of  the  demand.  If  he  did 
not  need  what  the  teeth  are  designed  to  chew,  you  may  be 
sure  they  would  not  be  given  him.  Orant  him  the  novel 
food  sparingly,  and  with  discretion  as  to  kind.  Rare  beef 
and  well-boiled  mutton,  tender  roast  or  boiled  chicken 
and  turkey,  are  safe.  Withhold  fried  meats  of  every  de- 
scription. Do  not  let  him  touch  veal  or  pork  in  any 
shape.  Mince  the  meat  very  finely  to  save  his  digestive 
apparatus  all  unnecessary  work.  Mealy  old  potatoes — 
never  new  or  waxy — young  onions,  boiled  in  two  waters ; 
fresh  asparagus,  green  peas,  and  dry  sweet  potatoes  should 
suffice  for  vegetables,  with,  of  course,  rice  and  hominy. 
For  dessert,  once  in  a  while,  a  simple  custard,  a  taste  of 
home-made  ice-cream,  rice  and  farina  puddings,  Graham 
hasty  pudding,  the  inner  part  of  a  well-roasted  apple, 
and,  in  their  season,  ripe  peaches  and  apples,  will  not 
harm  him,  taken  in  moderation,  if  he  be  well  and  strong, 
after  he  is  two  years  old. 


THE  IHTBSERT.  613 

Pare  theJruU  ahoays.  The  skin  of  an  apple  is  as  bad 
for  him  as  a  bit  of  your  kid  gloves  would  be;  that  of  a 
grape  more  indigestible  than  sole-leather.  Baisins — 
^*  skins  and  all  *' — are  unfit  for  anybody  to  eat.  Pulp  and 
pits,  they  are  poisonous  for  baby.  Ditto,  pickles,  pastry, 
and  preserves.  Ditto,  most  kinds  of  cake  and  all  sorts  of 
fruit  puddings. 

Qive  him  light  suppers,  and  put  him  to  bed  early  in  a 
dark  room.  He  will  not  grow  better  in  a  glare  of  artifi- 
€ial  light  than  will  your  camellias  and  azalias. 

Always  see  for  yourself  that  hb  last  waking  thoughts 
are  pleasant ;  that  he  shuts  his  eyes  at  peace  with  the 
world  and  in  love  with  you ;  that  his  feet  are  warm,  his 
stomach  easy,  and  his  body  not  overloaded  with  blankets 
and  quilts ;  also,  that  the  nursery  is  clean  and  freshly 
aired.  These  are  better  prescriptions  for  sound  slumber 
than  all  the  old  wives'  &bles  of  the  excellent  properties  of 
that  pernicious  drug — Soothing  Syrup. 

Farina..  ^< 

1  cup  boiling  water.    . 
1    "     fresh  milk. 

1  large  tablespoonful  HeckeFs   Farina,  wet  up  with 
cold  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 
A  pinch  of  salt. 

Stir  the.  farina  into  the  boiling  water  (aligktly  salted)  in 

the  farina  kettle  (i.  e,,  one  boiler  set  within  another,  the 

latter  filled  with  hot  water).   Boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring 

constantly  until  it  is  well-thickened.     Then  add  the  milk, 

stirring  it  in  gradually,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer. 

Sweeten,  and  give  to  the  child  so  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough. 

You  may  make  enough  in  the  morning  to  last  all  day ; 

22* 


514  OOMBCOH  8£IIBR 

warming  it  up  with  a  little  hot  milk  as  you  want  it.  Keep 
in  a  cold  place.  Do  not  get  it  too  sweet,  and  oook  it  welL 
Be  sure  the  farina  is  sweet  and  dry. 

Barley. 

It  sometimes  happens  that  milk,  even  when  sterilised, 
disagrees  with  a  delicate  infant  so  seriously  that  it  is  nec- 
essary to  substitute  some  other  article  of  diet  for  a  few 
days.  I  have  known  barley  water  to  be  used,  in  such 
cases,  with  success. 

2  cups  boiling  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  pearl  barley — picked  over  and  washed. 

A  pinch  of  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar — not  heaping. 

Soak  the  barley  half  an  hour  in  a  very  little  lukewarm 
water,  and  stir,  without  draining,  into  the  boiling  water, 
salted  very  slightly.  Simmer  one  hour,  stirring  often,  and 
strain  before  sweetening. 

Abbowboot.  >i< 

1  cup  of  boiling  water. 

1  "      fresh  milk. 

2  teaspoonfiils  beet  Bermuda  arrowroot,  wet  urith  oold 
water. 

1  srnaU  pinch  of  salt. 

2  even  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

Stir  the  arrowroot  paste  into  the  salted  boiling  water  \ 
stir  and  boil  five  minutes  or  until  it  is  clear;  add  the 
sweetened  milk,  and  boil  ten  minutes,  slowly,  still  stirring. 

If  the  child  has  fever,  or  cannot  digest  milk,  substitute 
hot  water  for  it  It  is,  however,  a  dangerous  experiment 
to  forbid  milk  altogether  for  an  infiint.      I  should  rather 


THE  KUR8SRT.  515 

diminish  the  quantity,  putting  in,  say,  one-third  or  one- 
fourth  as  much  as  the  receipt  names,  and  filling  up  with 
boiling  water. 

Rice  Jelly.  ^ 

i  cup  whole  rice,  well-washed  and  soaked  two  hours  in 
a  little  warm  water ;  then  added,  with  the  water,  to 
that  in  the  kettle. 

3  pints  cold  water. 

1  small  pinch  of  salt,  put  into  the  water. 
Sweeten  to  taste  with  loaf  sugar. 

Simmer  the  rice  half  an  hour ;  then  boil  it  until  it  is  a 
smooth  paste,  and  the  water  is  reduced  one-half  Strain 
through  double  tarlatan,  sweeten,  and  give  to  the  child. 

This  is  an  admirable  preparation  for  an  infant  suffering 
with  weakness  of  the  bowels.  If  there  is  no  fever,  you  may 
put  one-third  part  milk,  boiled  with  the  rice.  Give  a  few 
spoonfuls  every  hour  or  half  hour. 

Milk  and  Bread.    >{< 

i  cup  boiled  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  stale  Graham  bread. 

A  very  little  sugar. 

Crumble  the  bread  into  the  boiled  milk,  sweeten,  and 
when  cool  enough,  feed  to  the  child  with  a  spoon. 

"Wheaten  Grits.  >{< 

4  tablespoonfuls  grits  (cracked  wheat)  soaked  in  a  little 
cold  water  one  hour,  and  then  put  into  the  kettle. 

1  quart  boiling  water. 
1  cup  milk. 
A  pinch  of  salt 


516  COMMON  SENSE. 

Boil  the  Boaked  grits  in  the  quart  of  water  one  hour, 
stirring  up  often ;  add  the  milk  and  boil  half  an  hour 
longer.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  if  the  child  is  well,  pour 
cream  over  it.  This  is  designed  for  children  over  a  year 
old.  It  is  slightly  cathartic ;  especially  if  the  milk  be 
omitted,  and  is  most  useAil  in  reflating  the  bowels. 
When  this  can  be  done  without  drugs,  it  is  far  better. 

HoMiKY  AND  Milk.  Hh 

i  cup  amall  hominy. 

1  scant  quart  of  cold  water. 

Pinch  of  salt 

Boil  one  hour,  stirring  often.  While  hot,  mix  some 
soft  witii  new  milk,  sweeten  to  taste  and  feed  to  baby  with 
a  spoon. 

This  is  also  relaxing  to  the  bowels,  and  should  not,  be 
given  if  the  child  is  disposed  to  summer  complaint 

Graham  Hastt  Pudding.  •{< 

1  cup  Graham  flour,  wet  up  with  cold  water. 

1  large  cup  hoUing  water  and  same  quantity  of  milk. 

1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Stir  the  wet  flour  into  the  boiling  water,  slightly  salted. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirriug  almost  constantly.  Add  the 
milk  and  cook,  aftier  it  has  come  again  to  a  boil,  ten  min- 
utes longer.     Give  with  sugar  and  milk  for  breakfast 

Eaten  with  cream,  nutmeg,  and  powdered  sugar,  this  is 
a  good  plain  dessert  for  grown  people  as  well  as  children. 

Rice  Flour  Hasty  Pudding 

Is  made  as  above,  substituting  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
rice  flour  for  the  Graham. 


BUimRIES.  ^17 

Milk  Porridge. 

1  tablespoonful  ludian  meal )  wet  to  a  paste  with  cold 

1  "  white  flour    3      water. 

2  cups  boiliog  water. 
2    "     milk. 

A  good  pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  the  paste  in  the  hot  water  twenty  minutes;  add  the 
milk  and  cook  ten  minutes  more,  stirring  often- 
Eat  with  sugar  and  milk,  stirred  in  while  hot 

Mush  and  Milk. 

1  cup  Indian  meal,  wet  up  with  cold  water. 

2  quarts  cold  water. 
Salt  to  taste. 

Boil  two  hours ;  stirring  often  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  ^ 
stick. 

To  be  eaten  hot  with  milk  and  sugar. 

Condensed  Milk. 

This  is  perhaps  the  safest  substitute  for  the  "  good  milk 
from  one  cow,"  which  few  mothers  in  town  can  procure. 
Keep  the  can  in  a  cool  place  and  mix  according  to  direc 
tions. 


SUNDRIES. 

Oleanino  Pots,  Kettles,  and  Tins. 

Boil  a  double  handful  of  Jiay  or  grass  in  a  new  iron  pot, 
beforfl^ttempting  to  cook  with  it ;  scrub  out  with  soap  and 
sand ;  then  set  on  full  of  fidr  water,  and  let  it  boil  half  an 
hour.  After  this,  you  may  use  it  without  fear.  As  soon 
as  you  empty  a  pot  or  frying-pan  of  that  which  has  been 


618  COMMON  SENSE. 

cooked  in  it,  fill  with  hot  or  cold  water  (hot  is  best)  and 
set  back  upon  the  fire  to  scald  thoroughly. 

New  tins  should  stand  near  the  fire  with  boiling  water 
iu  them,  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a  spoonful  of  soda, 
for  au  hour ;  then  be  scoured  inside  with  soft  soap ;  after- 
ward rinsed  with  hot  water.  Keep  them  clean  by  rub- 
bing with  sifted  wood-ashes,  or  whitening. 

Copper  utinsils  should  be  cleaned  with  brickdust  and 
flannel. 

Never  set  a  vessel  in  the  pot-closet  without  cleaning 
and  wiping  it  thoroughly.  If  grease  be  left  in  it,  it  will 
grow  rancid.    If  set  aside  wet,  it  is  apt  to  rust 

Knives. 

Clean  with  a  soft  flannel  and  Bath  brick.  If  rusty,  use 
wood-ashes,  rubbed  on  with  a  newly  cut  bit  of  Irish  potato. 
This  will  remove  spots  when  nothing  else  will.  Keep 
your  best  set  wrapped  in  soft  white  paper ;  then  in  linen, 
in  a  drawer  out  of  damp  and  dust. 

Never  dip  the  ivory  handles  of  knives  in  hot  water. 

Silver. 

Wash,  afl;er  each  meal,  all  that  is  soiled,  in  very  hot  soft 
water,  with  hard  soap.  Wipe  hard  and  quickly  on  a 
clean  towel ;  then  polish  with  dry  flannel.  If  discolored 
with  egg,  mustard,  spinach,  or  beans,  by  any  other  means, 
rub  out  the  stain  with  a  stifi*  toothbrush  (used  only  for 
this  purpose),  and  silver  soap. 

After  rubbing  with  a  stiff  lather  made  with  this,  wash 
off  with  hot  water,  wipe,  and  polish  while  hot  There  is 
no  need  for  the  weekly  silver  cleaning  to  be  an  event  or  a 
bugbear  if  a  little  care  and  watchfulness  be  observed 
after  each  meal.    Silver  should  never  be  allowed  to  grow 


SUNDRIES.  519 

dingy.  If  Bridget  or  Chloe  will  not  attend  properly  to 
this  matter,  take  it  in  hand  yourself.  Have  your  own 
soap-cups — two  of  them — one  with  common  soap,  the 
other  with  a  cake  of  silver  soap  in  the  bottom.  Have  for 
one  a  mop,  for  the  other  a  stiff  brush — a  tooth  brush  is 
best.     Use  your  softest  towels  for  silver. 

Electro-silicon  is  excellent  for  cleaning  silver.  Clean 
brass  and  copper  with  Putz  Pomade. 

This  is  a  red  paste,  sold  by  most  grocers.  It  is  applied 
with  a  soft  flannel,  and  allowed  to  remain  upon  the  brass 
for  a  few  minutes,  after  which  it  is  rubbed  off  and  the 
brass  polished. 

China  and  Qlass. 

There  are  few  of  the  minor  crooks  in  the  lot  of  the 
careful  housewife  that  cause  her  more  anxiety  and  more 
discouragement  than  the  attempt  to  teach  domestics  how 
to  wash  up  dishes. 

"  I've  heard  that  Mrs. is  very  escact  about  some 

things,  such  as  washing  up  dishes  and  the  likes  of  that!" 
said  a  woman  to  me,  with  an  affected  laugh,  having  called 
to  apply  for  the  then  vacant  position  of  cook  in  my  kitchen. 
She  bad  high  recommendations,  a  whine  engrafted  upon 
her  native  brogue,  and  spoke  of  me  in  the  third  person — a 
trick  of  cheap  (and  bogus)  gentility  that  tries  my  nerves 
and  temper  to  the  very  marrow  of  my  spine.     "  I  was 

a-saying  to  myself,  as  I  came  along,  that  Mrs. must 

have  been  very  onlucky  in  her  girls  if  she  had  to  tache 
them  how  to  wash  up  dishes.  I  always  thought  that  was 
one  of  the  things  that  came  kinder  nafral  to  every  cook." 

"  Mrs. 's  "  experience  goes  to  prove  that  the  wrong 

way  of  doing  this  must  "come  natural"  to  the  class  men- 
tioned, and  that  Nature  is  mighty  in  woman.  The  fact 
'hat  the  right  way  ib  not  U)  pile  unrinsed  dishes  and 


620  OOBOCON  SEKSK. 

|dateB  in  a  big  pan  with  a  looee  bit  of  aoap  on  top,  and 
pour  lukewarm  water  over  all ;  then  with  a  bit  of  rag  to 
Bplash  said  water  over  each  separately,  and  make  another 
pile  of  them  upon  the  kitchen-table,  until  the  last  is  drawn, 
reeking  with  liquid  grease,  sticky  and  streaming,  from  the 
now  filthy  puddle  of  diluted  swill ;  then  to  rub  them  lightly 
and  leisurely  with  one  towel — be  they  many  or  few — ^is  as 
difficult  of  comprehension  to  the  scuUionly  mind  as  would 
be  a  &miliar  lecture  upon  the  pons  annorum- 

Yet  the  right  and  only  neat  method  is  so  simple  and 
easy !  Rinse  the  greasy  plates,  and  whatever  is  sticky 
with  sugar  or  other  sweet,  in  hot  water  and  transfer  to  a 
larger  pan  of  very  hot.  Wash  glass  first ;  next  silver ; 
then  china — one  article  at  a  time,  although  you  may  put 
several  in  the  pan.  Have  a  mop  with  a  handle ;  rub 
upon  the  soap  (over  which  the  water  should  have  been 
poured)  until  you  have  strong  suds.  There  is  a  little  imple- 
ment made  by  the  "Dover  Stamping  Co.," a  cup  of  tinned 
wire,  called  a  "soap-shaker,"  that  greatly  facilitates  this 
process  of  suds-making,  without  waste  of  soap.  Wash 
both  sides  of  plate  and  saucer,  and  wipe  before  putting  U 
out  of  your  hafid.  Draining  leaves  streaks  which  can  be 
felt  by  sensitive  finger-tips,  if  not  seen.  If  china  is  rough 
to  the  touch,  it  is  dirty.  Hot,  clean  suds,  a  dry,  clean 
towel,  and  quick  wiping  leave  it  bright  and  shining.  Boll 
your  glasses  around  in  clean  water,  filling  them  as  soon 
as  they  touch  it,  and  you  need  never  crack  one.  A  lady 
did  once  explain  the  dinginess  of  her  goblets  to  me  by  say- 
ing that  she  was  "  afraid  to  put  them  in  hot  water.  It 
rots  glass  and  makes  it  so  tender!  I  prefer  to  have  them 
a  little  cloudy."  This  is  literally  true— that  she  said  it,  I 
mean.  Certainly  not  that  a  year's  soak  in  hot  water 
oould  make  glass  tender. 


8UNPBIES.  921 

Wabwlvq  Windows. 

Dissolve  a  little  washing-soda  in  the  water  if  the  glass 
is  very  dim  with  smoke  or  dirt.  Do  not  let  it  nin  on  the 
sash,  but  wash  each  pane  with  old  flannel ;  dry  quickly 
with  a  softy  clean  towel,  wiping  the  corners  with  especial 
care.  Polish  with  chamois  skin,  or  newspapers  rubbed 
soft  between  the  hands. 

To  Clean  Carpets. 

Sprinkle  the  carpet  with  tea-leaves ;  sweep  well ;  then 
nse  soap  and  soft,  warm  water  for  the  grease  and  dirt 
spots.  This  freshens  up  old  carpets  marvellously.  Rub 
the  wet  spots  dry  with  a  clean  cloth. 

To  Clean  Paint. 

Scour^ith  a  flat  brush,  less  harsh  than  that  used  for 
floors,  using  warm  sofb  sudd ;  before  it  dries  wash  off  with 
old  flannel  dipped  in  clean  cold  water,  and  wipe  dry 
with  a  linen  towel  or  cloth.  Oo  through  the  whole  pro- 
cess quickly,  that  the  water  may  not  dry  upon  and  streak 
the  paint 

To  Keep  Woolens. 

Beat  out  all  the  dust,  and  sun  for  a  day ;  shake  very 
hard  ;  fold  neatly  and  pin — or,  what  is  better,  sew  up — 
closely  in  muslin  or  linen  cloths,  putting  a  small  lump  of 
gum-camphor  in  the  centre  of  each  bundle.  Wrap  news- 
papers about  all,  pinning  so  as  to  exclude  dust  and  in- 
sects. 

These  are  really  all  the  precautions  necessary  for  the 
safety  even  of  furs,  if  they  are  strictly  obeyed.  But  you 
may  set  moths  at  defiance  if  you  can,  in  addition  to 
these,  secure,  as  a  packing-case,  a  whiskey  or  alcohol 


622  OOHMOK  SENSE. 

barrel,  bat  lately  emptied,  and  still  strongly  scented  by 
the  liquor.  Have  a  dose  head,  and  fit  it  in  neatly.  Set 
away  in  the  garret 

To  Wash  Doubtful  Galiooes. 

Put  a  teaspoonfui  of  sugar  of  lead  or  beef's  gall  into  a 
pailful  of  water,  and  soak  fifteen  minutes  before  washing. 

To  Clean  a  Cloth  Coat. 

Rub  soap  upon  the  wristbands  and  collar ;  dip  them  in 
boiling-hot  suds — and  scrub  with  a  stiff  clean  brush. 
Treat  the  grease  and  dirt  spots  in  the  same  way.  Change 
the  suds  for  clean  and  hot  as  it  gets  dirty.  Wet  and 
brush  the  whole  coat,  the  right  way  of  the  cloth,  with 
fresh  suds,  when  you  have  scoured  out  the  spots,  adding 
three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  alcohol  to  the  water. 
Btretch  the  sleeves,  pocket-holes,  wristbands,  and  collar 
into  shape,  folding  the  sleeves  as  if  they  had  been  ironed, 
also  the  collar.  Lay  upon  a  clean  cloth,  spread  upon  the 
table  or  floor,  and  let  it  get  perfectly  dry  in  the  shade, 
turning  over  three  or  four  times  without  disturbing  the 
folds. 

To  Clean  Silk. 

To  Remove  Ghrease  Spots  — Scrape  Venetian  or  French 
chalk  fine ;  moisten  to  a  stiff  paste  with  soap-suds ;  make 
it  into  flat  cakes  by  pressing  between  two  boards,  and  dry 
in  the  sun  or  oven.  Keep  these  for  use.  When  you  need 
them,  scrape  one  to  powder  and  cover  the  spot  with  it, 
laying  the  silk  upon  a  fine  clean  linen  or  cotton  cloth. 
Lay  two  or  three  folds  of  tissue-paper  upon  the  chalk,  and 
press  it  with  a  hot  iron  for  a  minute  or  more,  taking  care 
it  does  not  touch  the  silk.  Raise  the  paper  and  scrape  off 
4he  grease  with  the  chalk.     Split  a  visiting-card,  and  rub 


r 


SUKDRIE8.  523 

the  place  where  the  spot  toas,  with  the  inside,  to  restore 
the  lustre.  The  silk  should  be  pressed  on  the  wrong 
side. 

If  the  spot  be  discovered  at  once,  simply  rub  the  wrong 
side  hard  with  powdered  French  chalk,  and  leave  it  to 
wear  off. 

To  Wadh  mk.—mx  together 

2  cups  cold  water. 
1  tablespoonful  honey. 
1  **  soft  soap. 

1  wineglass  alcohol. 

Shake  up  well ;  lay  the  silk,  a  breadth  at  a  time,  on  a 
table,  and  sponge  both  sides  with  this,  rubbing  it  well  in ; 
shake  it  about  well  and  up  and  down  in  a  tub  of  cold  wa- 
ter ;  flap  it  as  dry  as  you  can,  but  do  not  wring  it  Hang 
it  by  the  edges,  not  the  middle,  until  fit  to  iron.  Iron 
on  the  wrong  side  while  it  is  very  damp. 

Black  and  dark  or  sober-colored  silks  may  be  success- 
fully treated  in  this  way. 

To  Smooth  Wrinkled  Silk, — Sponge  on  the  right  side 
with  very  weak  gum-arabic  water,  and  iron  on  the  wrong 
side. 

To  Renew  Wrinkled  Grape. 

Stretch  over  a  basin  of  boiling  water,  holding  it  smooth, 
but  not  tight,  over  the  top,  and  shifting  as  the  steam  fairly 
penetrates  it  Fold,  while  damp,  in  the  original  creases, 
and  lay  under  a  heavy  book  or  board  to  dry.  It  will  look 
almost  as  well  as  new. 

To  Restore  the  Pile  op  Velvet. 

K  but  slightly  pressed,  treat  as  you  would  crape.  Steam 
on  the  right  side  until  heated  through.  If  very  badly 
crushed,  wet  on  the  wrong  side ;  let  an  assistant  hold  a  hot 


624  OOHMON  SEMBB. 

iron,  bottom  upward,  and  pan  the  wet  side  of  the  velvet 
fllowly  over  the  flat  8ur&ce — a  sort  of  upside-down  iron- 
ing. When  the  steam  rises  thickly  through  to  the  right 
side,  it  will  raise  the  pile  with  it.    Dry  without  handling. 

To  Curl  Tumbled  Feathers. 

Hold  over  the  heated  top  of  the  range  or  stove,  not  near 
enough  to  burn;  withdraw,  shake  them  out,  and  hold 
them  over  it  again  until  curled. 

To  Glean  Straw  Matting. 

Wash  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  clean  salt  and  water ; 
then  wipe  dry  at  once.  This  prevents  it  from  turning 
yellow. 

To  Wash  Lawn  or  Thin  Muslin. 

Boil  two  quarts  of  wheat-bran  in  six  quarts,  or  more,  of 
water,  half  an  hour.  Strain  through  a  coarse  towel  and 
mix  in  the  water  in  which  the  muslin  it  to  be  washed. 
Use  no  soap,  if  you  can  help  it,  and  no  starch.  Rinse 
lightly  in  fair  water.  This  preparation  both  cleanses  and 
stiffens  the  lawn.  If  you  can  conveniently,  take  out  all 
the  gathers.  The  skirt  should  always  be  ripped  from  the 
waist 

To  Wash  Woolens. 

Wash  in  clean,  hot  soap  suds ;  rinse  out  in  clear,  hot 
water,  and  shake  out  the  wet  without  passing  through  the 
wringer.  Worsted  dress-goods  should  never  be  wrung 
when  washed. 

To  Wash  White  Lace  Edging. 

Have  a  quart  bottle  covered  with  linen,  stitched  smoothly 
to  fit  the  shape.  Begin  at  the  bottom  and  wind  the  lace 
about  it,  basting  fast  at  both  edges,  even  the  minutest 


SUNDBIBZL  525 

point,  to  the  linen.  Wash  on  the  bottle,  soaping  it  well, 
rinse  by  plunging  in  a  pail  of  fair  water,  and  boil  as  you 
would  a  white  handkerchief,  bottle  and  all.  Set  in  the 
hot  sun  to  dry.  When  quite  dry,  clip  the  basting-threads, 
and  use  the  lace  without  ironing.  If  neatly  basted  on,  it 
will  look  nearly  as  well  as  new — if  not  quite. 

BxjLCK  Lace. 

}  cup  rain  water,  or  very  soft  spring  water. 

1  teaspoonftil  borax. 

1  tablespoonful  spirits  of  wine. 

Squeeze  the  tumbled  rusty  lace  through  this  four  times, 
then  rinse  in  a  cup  of  hot  water  in  which  a  black  kid  glove 
has  been  boiled.  Pull  out  the  edges  of  the  lace  until 
almost  dry ;  then  press  for  two  days  between  the  leaves  of 
a  heavy  book. 

To  Sponge  Black  Worsted  Dresses. 

Sponge  on  the  right  side  with  a  strong  tea  made  of  fi/g 
leaves,  and  iron  on  the  wrong. 

This  process  restores  lustre  and  crispness  to  alpaca, 
bombazine,  etc. 

To  Clean  very  Dirty  Black  Dresses. 

2  parts  soft  water  to  1  part  alcohol,  or  if  there  be  paint 
spots  upon  the  stuif,  spirits  turpentine.  Soap  a  sponge 
well,  dip  in  the  mixture,  and  rub,  a  breadth  at  a  time,  on 
both  sides,  stretching  it  upon  a  table.  Iron  on  the  wrong 
side,  or  that  which  is  to  be  inside  when  the  stuff  is  made 
up.  Sponge  off  with  fair  water,  hot  but  not  scalding,  before 
you  iron.     Iron  while  damp. 

To  Remove  Stains  from  Marble. 
Make  a  mortar  of  unslacked  lime  and  very  strong  lye. 


526  COBOCOK  BEirSE. 

Cover  the  spot  thickly  with  it  and  leave  it  on  for  six  weeka 
Wash  it  off  perfectly  clean,  and  rub  hard  with  a  brush 
dipped  in  a  lather  of  soap  and  water.  Polish  with  a 
smooth,  hard  brush. 

Iron  Mould 

Is  as  nearly  ineradicable  as  it  is  possible  for  stain  to  be. 
If  anything  can  stir  it,  it  ia  chlorinated  soda,  applied 
freely.  Borne  housewives  use  oxalic  acid.  Whatever 
application  is  made,  lay  the  article  wet  with  it  in  the  sun 
to  dry,  repeating  the  process  until  the  stain  is  removed — 
if  it  does  move. 

Mildew 

IB  likewise  obstinate.  If  anything  will  extract  it,  it  is 
lemon-juice  mixed  with  an  equal  weight  of  salt,  powdered 
starch,  and  soft  soap.  Rub  on  thickly  and  lay  upon  the 
grass  in  the  hot  sun,  renewing  the  application  two  or 
three  times  a  day  until  the  spot  fades  or  comes  out 

I  have  used  salt  wet  with  tomato-juice,  often  renewed, 
laying  the  article  stained  upon  the  grass.  Chlorinated 
soda  is  also  good  for  this. 

Ink. 

While  the  stains  are  yet  wet  upon  the  carpet,  sponge 
them  with  skim-milk  thoroughly.  Then  wash  out  the  milk 
with  a  clean  sponge  dipped  again  and  again  in  fair  water, 
cold.  Exchange  this  presently  for  warm ;  then  rub  dry 
with  a  cloth.  If  the  stain  is  upon  any  article  of  clothing, 
or  table,  or  bed  linen,  wash  in  the  milk  well,  afterward  in 
the  water. 

Dry  ink  stains  can  be  removed  from  white  cloth  by 
oxalic  acid,  or  lemon-juice  and  salt. 

Stains  of  Acids  and  Alkalies. 
Treat  acid  stains  with  hartshorn ;  alkaline  with  adds. 


BUNDBIEB.  527 

For  instance,  if  the  color  be  taken  out  of  cloth  by  white- 
wash, wash  with  strong  vinegar. 

Grease  Spots. 

1  quart  boiling  water. 
1  oz.  pulverized  borax. 
i  oz.  of  gum  camphor. 

Shake  up  well  and  bottle.  It  is  excellent  for  removing 
grease  spots  from  woolens. 

Cure  for  Burns, 

One-third  part  linseed  oil. 
Two-thirds  lime  water. 

Shake  up  well ;  apply  and  wrap  in  soft  linen. 

Until  you  can  procure  this  keep  the  part  covered  with 
wood'90ot  mixed  to  a  soft  paste  with  lard,  or^  if  you  have 
not  these,  with  common  molasses. 

To  Stop  the  Flow  of  Blood. 

Bind  the  cut  with  cobwebs  and  brown  sugar,  pressed  on 
like  lint.  Or,  if  you  cannot  procure  these,  with  the  fine 
dust  of  tea.  When  the  blood  ceases  to  flow,  apply  lauda- 
num. 

To  Relieve  Asthma. 

Soak  blotting  or  tissue  paper  in  drong  saltpetre  water. 
Dry,  and  bum  at  night  in  your  bed-room. 
I  hfKyvo  thb  to  be  an  excellent  prescription. 

Antidotes  to  Poison. 

For  any  poison  swallow  instantly  a  glass  of  cold  water 
with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  common  salt  and  one  of 


628  COMXOK  SCMBE. 

ground  mustard  stirred  io.      This  is  ft  speedy  anetia 
When  it  has  acted,  swallow  the  whites  of  two  raw  eggs. 

If  you  have  taken  corrosive  sublimate  take  half  a  dozen 
raw  eggs  besides  the  emetic.  If  laudanum,  a  cup  of  very 
strong  coffee.  If  arsenic,  first  the  emetic,  then  half  a  cup 
of  sweet  oil  or  melted  lard. 

COLOGNE  Water.     (-Fine.)     (JVb.  1.) 

1  drachm  oil  lavender. 

1  "        "    bergamot 

2  "        "    lemon. 

2      "        "    rosemary. 
50  drops  tincture  of  musk. 
8       "      oil  of  cinnamon. 
8       "        "      cloves. 
1  pint  of  alcohol. 

Cologne  Water.    (No»  2.) 

60  drops  oil  of  lavender. 
60  "  "  bergamot. 
60     "  "     lemon. 

60     "       orange-flower  water. 
1  pint  of  alcohol. 

Cork  and  shake  well. 

Hard  Soap. 

6  lbs.  washing  soda. 
S  **    unslaked  lime. 

Pour  on  4  gallons  boiling  water. 

Let  it  stand  until  perfectly  clear,  then  drain  off.  Put 
in  6  lbs.  clean  fat. 

Boil  until  it  begins  to  harden — about  two  hours — stir- 
ring most  of  the  time. 


SUNDRIES.  629 

While  boiling,  thin  with  two  gallons  of  cold  water, 
which  you  have  poured  on  the  alkaline  mixture  after 
draining  off  the  four  gallons.  This  must  also  settle  clear 
before  it  is  drawn  off.  Add  it  when  there  is  danger  of 
boiling  oyer. 

Try  the  thickness  by  cooling  a  little  on  a  plate.  Put 
in  a  handful  of  salt  just  before  taking  from  the  fire.  Wet 
a  tub  to  prevent  sticking;  turn  in  the  soap  and  let  it 
stand  until  solid.  Cut  into  bars  ;  put  on  a  board  and  let 
it  dry. 

This  will  make  about  forty  pounds  of  nice  soap  ;  much 
better  for  washing  (when  it  has  dried  out  for  two  or  three 
months)  than  yellow  turpentine  soap. 

Bab  Soap. 

Buy  a  box  at  a  time ;  cut  into  small  squares  and  lay 
upon  the  garret-floor  to  dry  for  several  weeks  before  it  is 
used. 

Soft  Soap. 

10  lbs.  grease. 
6  ''    soda  (washing). 
8  gallons  hot  water. 

Let  it  stand  for  several  days  until  the  grease  is  eaten 
up.  If  too  thick,  add  more  water.  Stir  every  day.  If 
wood-ashes  are  used  instead  of  soda,  boil  the  mixture. 


2S 


INDEX. 


PAGB 

FAMILIAR  TALK,..      1 

SOUPS -    16 

Vegetable  Sovps 16 

Aaparagus  soup  {white) ^.^.    19 

"  "     (green) 20 

Bean  "     (dried).....    18 

Bean  and  corn  soup 18 

26 
24 
16 
16 
24 
18 
17 
22 
28 


a 


n 


*'  (No.  1.) 
**  (No.  2.) 


<i 


u 


it 


Com 
Graham 
Green  Pea 

Gumbo  or  okra 

Pea  and  tomato 

Pea  {split  and  dried)  soup 

Potato 

Potato  bisque... 

Tomato  (winter)  soup 20 

"       {summer)   "    21 

^       '*      bisque 21 

y  Turnip  soup 21 

**      bisque 22 

Meat  Soups 25 

Beef  soup  d  la  Julienne....  26 

*•      **    {lyrown) 27 

Brown  gravy  soup 30 

Chicken            "     31 

Giblet              *'    29 

Hare  or  rabbit**     33 

Mock  turtle      **     28 

Mutton  or  lamb  broth 27 

Oxtail  floup 83 


PAGE 

Veal  and  macaroni  soup 26 

Veal  and  sago  "     81 

Vermicelli  **     28 

Venison  "    32 


Fish  Soups 


Catfish  60up 

Clam      *'     

Eel  "     

Green  turtle  soup 

Lobster  **    

Oyster  *'     (No.  1)... 

(No.  2). . 


(f 


II 


FISH. 


34 

35 
85 
3G 
87 
86 
34 
34 

38 


Bass  (sea),  boiled 50 

fried 60 

Catfish,  stewed 64 

*'     fried  64 

"     chowder 65 

Chowder,  clam 68 

(No.  1) 56 

"         (No.  2) 56 

Codfish  balls  40 

•*      (fresh),  boiled 88 

**       (m/0,  boiled 39 

*'      and  potato  stew 40 

**      (sail),  stewed    with 

eggs 40 

EeK  fried 56 

631 


532 


nn>EX. 


PAGE 

£e1m  stewed 55 

Fish,  mayonnaise  of 51 

Halibut,  baked 42 

•*        boiled 42 

'•        devilled ^  43 

Bteak 43 

Mackerel  (fresh),  boiled 41 

{9alt),h9oiM 41 

(fre$h),    **      41 

Pereh  and  other  pan-fiah....  54 

Pickerel,  Med 53 

"        baked  with  cream.  63 

Rockfish  and  river  base 39 

Salmon,  baked 44 

"       boiled 43 

"      (/r«A),  pickled 45 

*•      (boU),         "     47 

**      (Bmoked)y  broiled....  47 

«      steak 45 

Salmon-trout,    hnkcd    with 

cream... 51 

Salmon-trout,  boiled 52 

•«            fried 53 

Shad,  baked 49 

•*    (/re«A)  boiled 48 

"     (talt),       **     48 

*'     (fredi),  broiled 48 

'•     (mUi)y          '*      49 

"    fried 49 

Sturgeon,  baked 51 

"         steak 50 

SheUJUh 57 

Clam  chowder 68 

"    fritters 68 

*«    scallop 67 

Crab,  devilled 58 

•'     salad 58 


PAOC 

Crabs,  soft-shell 69 

Lobster,  to  boil 57 

*'        croquettes 58 

devilled 57 

"        salad.  {See  Salads)  188 

O/sters,  cream  on  half-ehell.  62 

•'       broUed 61 

•*       fried 60 

*•       fritters 61 

"       omelette 62 

"       pAt^ 66 

«       pie 63 

"       pickled 64 

"       raw 65 

**       roast 65 

''       scalloped 61 

'*       steamed 66 

'*       stewed 60 

Scallops 67 

Terrapin  or  turtle 59 

POULTRY 09 

Chicken,  boiled 74 

"         broiled 76 

**         fricasseed  (6roi»t)..  75 

«       (wAite)....  75 

«         fried  {No.  1) 76 

"            "    {No,  2) 77 

**         and  ham 79 

Chicken-pie  {baked) 78 

"       pot-pie 77 

*^       pudding....-  78 

"       roast 74 

Ducks,roa8t 'SO 

"     stewed 81 

Duck,  cold,  to  use  up 80 

QoQse-pie 82 

**   roast 82 


-iffsrac. 


53S 


« 


(f 


PAGE 

Gainea-fourl,  roast 81 

Pigeons,  broiled 84 

Pigeon-pie 84 

PigeoDSy  roast 83 

"        stewed ^  83 

Turkey,  boiled 72 

*«       ragoiitof. 73 

"       roast ^  71 

"       seailopof. 72 

MEATS 84 

Btti, 84 

Beef  a  ^  fitocftf 88 

"    breakfafit  stew  of 89 

•*    (oortMxf',  boiled 93 

*'    hasbed 90 

bearty  stewed 92 

[dritd) 94 

Beef-steak 86 

''        and  onions 87 

**        pie 91 

Beef,  roast 84 

^    tongue,  boiled. 93 

"    to  corn 93 

*'    roast,  with  Yorkshire 

pudding 85 

$eef-pie»  potato  cruat 92 

MyMom,  and  Lamb 94 

Mutton  a  la  venison 95 

"      boiled.... 96 

or  lamb  chop 97 

**  cutletSjbaked  97 

Mutton-ham 98 

*'      or  lamb  richauffe 99 

"              •*     roast 94 

Mutton-stew 96 

Veal 99 

Gairs  head  in  a  mould 108 


« 


u 


FAGE 

Calf  head  scallop^ 100 

"         stev^ 105 

Calfs  brains,  croquette  pf^.  Ill 

"      liver,  fried 112 

"         "     xoaBt Ill 

'*     stewed 112 

Imitation  pa^6({«/(>£e^ra«.,.  113 

Sweetbreads,  broiled 107 

"  fried 106 

"  roasted    107 

"  stewed 107 

Veal,  breaet  of  (roast) 100 

"    chops • 101 

''    cutlets  d  la  Mointenon  110 

**    cutlets  (pUUn) ^  101 

"    fillet  of  (roai»t) 100 

«    fillet  stewed 103 

"    jellied 108 

"    loin  of  (roast) 100 

'*    marbled 114 

"     minced 109 

"    olives  with  oysters...  109 

**    p&t^s ^ 105 

"    pie 102 

"    scaUop 104 

"    shoulder  of  (roast)....  101 

**    steak 102 

**    stewed 103 

knuckle  of  (stewed)...  104 


« 


Fork. 


114 


Brawn  [No.  1) 130 

*'      {No.  2) 131 

Chine,  roast 118 

Chops 121 

Ham,  to  cure 134 

"      baked 136 

**     barbecued 137 


1 


534 


INDEX. 


Ham,  boiled 

broiled ^. 

glaied 

fried ^. 

roast 

sandwiches 

and  chicken  sandwich- 


PAGt: 
35 


it 
it 
i< 
<( 


<i 


and  chicken  pie 

and  eggs 

steamed 

Lard 

Leg  of  pork,  roast 

Loin        *•        "    

Pig's  heady  roast 

"  with  liver    and 

heart 

Pig,  roast  (whole) 

■•  orK^BicaK* ••«■•  •«*  •••••••••«•  a« 

"    stewed 

Pot-pie  of  pork 

**  Cheshire 

Pork,  to  pickle  {Xo,  1) 

"  *'      {No,2) 

"     and  beans.... 

Podding,  pork  and  peas... 

Spare-rib,  roast 

Sausage,  Bologna  (cooked)... 
«       (uncooked) 

Sausage  (AV.  1) 

{No,  2) 

(Ko.  3) 

Saveloys 

Souse,  or  head-cheese 

Souse  of  pig's  feet  and  cars.. 


(( 


<i 


CX)MPAKY. 


OAMS. 


37 
35 
37 
36 
33 

38 
39 
39 
35 
29 
16 
17 
22 

22 

181 

21 

21 

24 

25 

32 

33 

39 

40 

17 

28 

27 

25 

27 

27 

32 

23 

23 

40 
47 


Veniton- 


PAGE 

..  147 


(( 


Cutlets  of  venison 150 

Fawn,  roast 152 

Ham — venison 154 

151 

148 

149 

152 

156 

of»  roast........  149 

o(  stewed 149 

160 


Hash 

Haunch 

Neck 

Pasty 

Sausage 

Shoulder.  " 

Steak 


<c 


M 


4< 


(( 


(f 


BabbiUar  Hares 156 

Barbecued  rabbit 158 

Fried  *«     158 

Fricassee  of  rabbit  (brown).  167 
"  "      (loAite)...  157 

Larded  rabbit 168 

Pie  of  rabbit ^.,  159 

Babbit  roast 156 

**     stewed  with  onions...  156 

Squirrels 159 

Broiled  squirrel 161 

Brunswick  stew. 160 

Bagotkt  of  squirrel 160 

PheaaanUf  partridges^  quails^ 
grouse,  etc 161 

Grousci  broiled 162 

"       roast 161 

"  **  with  bacon 162 

Quails,  broiled 162 

**      rwst 161 

*'         "  with  ham -.  162 


INDEX. 


535 


PAGE. 

QaaU-pie 164 

Pheasant  and  partridge,  roast  161 

Pie  of  game 163 

Salmi  of  game  ••••• 162 

Wild  ducks 165 

•*        "    roast 165 

**        "    stewed 166 

Wild  pigeon  pie 165 

**        "      stewed 164 

Wild  turkey 166 

Small  birds 167 

Game,  to  keep  from  tainting  169 
Ortolans,  reed-birds,  rail  and 

sora 169 

Salmi  of  woodcock  or  snipe.  169 

Snipe,  roast 167 

Woodcock,  roast 168 

*'         broiled 168 

SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND 
FISH 170 

Anchoyy  sauce 174 

Apple         «     178 

Asparagus  " 177 

Bread  "     174 

Butter,  to  Brown 179 

Cauliflower  sauce 177 

Crab  sauce 173 

Cranberry  saace 178 

Drawn  butler  {No.  1) 170 

"         '*      (No,  2) 170 

"     (No.Z) 171 

Egg  sauce 171 

Flour,  to  brown. 179 

Maitre  d'hdtel  sauce 176 

Mint  "    170 


PAGE 

Moshroom     sauce 176 

Onion  **       175 

Oyster  **       172 

Peach  ** 178 

Sauce  for  boiled  or  baked  fish  172 

•*    lobster 174 

White  celery  sauce 175 

"     sauce  for  fish 172 

CATSUPS  AND  FLAVORED 
VINEGARS 179 

A  good  store  sauce. 184 

Celery  yin^;ar 185 

Elderberry  catsup 185 

'*  Ever-ready  "  catsup 183 

Horse-radish        "      180 

"  vinegar 186 

Imitation       Worcestershire 

sauce 181 

Lemon  catsup 183 

Made  mustard 179 

Mock  capers 184 

Mushroom  catsup 181 

Onion  vinegar 185 

Oyster  catsup 182 

Pepper  vinegar 186 

Tomato  catsup 182 

Walnut      **    180 

SALADS.. 187,  197 

Cabbage  salad,  or  cold  slaw  192 

Celery        "      194 

Chicken     "     190 

Excelsior  lobster  salad  with 

cream  dressing 190  ** 

Mayonnaise  dressing 189   >. 

Lettuce  salad 191 

Lobster     "    188 

Mock  crab 196 

Potato  salad  195  ^ 


536 


INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Salmon  radod 194 

Sydney  Smith's  salad  dress- 
ing   187 

Summer  salad 192 

Tomato      "     193 

Water  cresses^ 192 


« 


i( 


u 


VEGETABLES  ..  197 

Artichokes 229 

Asparagus,  boiled 214 

in  ambuHh 215 

and  eggs 214 

Beans,  butter,  or  Lima 226 

(dried)  227 

French,     string     or 

"snap" 226 

**      kidney,    and    other 

small 226 

BeeU,  boiled  ^  227 

"     stewed -  227 

Broccoli  and  Brussels  sprouts  210 

Broccoli  and  eggs 210 

Cabbage,  boiled 206 

**        fried 208 

"        ladies' 208 

Cabbage  and  bacon 206 

•'        sprouts,    or    **  col- 
lards" 207 

"        stuffed 207 

CarrotR,  boiled 2*^4 

*'       mafihed 225 

"       stewed 225 

Cauliflower,  boiled 209 

scalloped 210 

stewed 209 

Celery 233 

"      stewed 234 

Com  (grten)^  boiled 220 

fritten,  or  cakes  222  i 


(I 


it 


U        If 


I  PAOB. 

Com  (pram),pndding «  222 

••         "        TOMl 223 

"         "        stewed 223 

"         "        and  tomatoes.  221 
"         «        and  beans  (suc- 
cotash)   221 

Cucumbers,  fried 220 

"  law 219 

"         stewed 220 

Cymblings  (summer  squash)  229 

£^-p]ant,  fried 224 

''  stufied -  224 

Hominy  croquettes 236 

**        boiled -  235 

«        baked 236 

"        fried 236 

Macaroni  d  Ui  crane ~  239 

"        baked 238 

**        stewed,       Italian 

style ~ -  238 

Mushrooms 231 

*•  baked 233 

"  broiled 233 

**  stewed 232 

Okra 235 

Onions,  baked 216 

"       stewed 215 

•'       stuffed 217 

ParRnipp,  boiled 227 

buttered  228 

fried 228 

«'         fritters 223 

*'         mashed 228 

Peas  (green)t  fritters  or  cakes  213 

"    green 213 

Poke-stalks 231 

Potatoes,  baked 200 

**        boiled  with  skins  on  198 


it 


f< 


VSTDEX. 


537 


FAOE 


Potatoes  boiled  without  skinB 

(nw),  boiled 

**         browned  (whole)... 

"  "         imtuhed). 

**        broiled 

"        alaereme. 

Potato-cakes. ,', » 

"        croquettes. 

Potatoes,  fried 

"        mashed 

*'        mattre  d'h6tel 

Potato-poff. 

**      ribbon 

"      scallop 

Potatoes  (stewed  for  break- 

fest) 

Potatoes  (o^),  stewed. » 

"        staffed 

"        (sweet) J  boiled 

**  •*        roast 

Pumpkin,  baked 

"        stewed 

Badishes 

Rice,  boiled 

**    croquettes.... 

Salsify     (or    oystei^plant), 

fried 

Salsify      or      oyster-plant), 

stewed 

Sea-kale,  boiled 

"  stewed 

Squash  (summer) 

*'        (winter) 

Sauerkraut 

Spinach  a  la  ereme 

"  boiled 

Sucoolash 


198 
199 
203 
204 
204 
202 
204 
201 
201 
199 
201 
201 
202 
203 

200 
200 
203 
205 
205 
204 
230 
230 
234 
238 
237 

223 

223 

229 
229 
229 
230 
208 
213 
211 
221 


PAGE 


Tomatoes,  baked 219 


it 


broiled 218 

raw 219 

scalloped 218 

and  com  scallop..  218 

stewed 217 

stuffed  and  baked.  218 

Turnips,  boiled  (whole) 211 

mashed 211 


ti 


a 


it 


n 


u 


EGGS 239 

Eggs  au  lit  (in  bed),.. 245 

"    baked 243 

Egg-baskets 246 

Eggs,  boiled 241 

''      breaded 243 

Chinese  bird's  nest  of.  244 

devilled.. 246 

dropped  or  poached...  241 

fried 242 

fricasseed 242 

with  ham 242 

poached  d  ^  creme 241 

*'      with  sauce....  244 

scalloped 244 

scrambled 243 

upon  toast 245 

Egg-balls  for  soup... r 248 

Omelette,  asparagurt 248 

aux  fines  herbee...  248 

cauliflower 247 

cheese 248 

plain 246 

with  ham,  chicken, 
or  tongue ,  247 


M 

« 
U 

a 

ti 


it 


it 


u 


ti 


Sweet  ometettee 248 

Omelette,  apple 249 


23* 


538 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Omelette  jelly 260 

"        souffle,  baked....  249 
"        fried  »....  248 
MILK,  BUTTER,  CHBBSE, 

ETC 251 

Bonnj  clabber,  or  'Cop- 
pered milk*' 258 

Batter  (to  mmke) «  251 

CheeM 264 

Cottage  cheese. ^  256 

/Ooldeabackw 256 

""  Jonket,  or  mountain  custard  258 

Rennet 258 

Thickened  milk 254 

Welsh  rabbit 266 

BREAD 266 

Bread  (family),  brown.. 267 

Boston,  brown.... 269 

Bread  (fiunily)  white 265 

Butter-milk  bread 270 

Bread,  milk 270 

"        rice 271 

**        rye 269 

Biscuit,  Graham 275 

•*        minute. ^ 276 

"        Mrs.  E.'b  (aodo) 274 

"        risen ^ 272 

"        potato 274 

Crackers,  butter. 278 

Crumpets  (plain) 279 

"         (woeee).. 279 

Muffins,  Belle's 282 

'        buttermilk 281 

•*       Charlotte  281 

**       cream 280 

•*      Graham 2b0 

**       hominy^ 282 

**       queen... , 280 


PAGE 

Muffins,  ''Mother's" 281 

"       rice. 282 

Powders,  baking 264 

Rolls,  French  (No.  1)... 271 

•'  "      {No.  2).- 272 

Rusk  (dried).. 277 

**     (sweet) 276 

Sally  Lunn  (No.  1) 273 

"        '•     (No.  2) 274 

Sponge  for  bread  (potato)...  264 

•'        **      "      (plain) 264 

Wafers.... 279 

Wheatlets,  Graham*. 276 

Yeaat  cakes 263 

**      (hop) 261 

**      (potato) - 262 

*'      (self-working) 261 

Oom  breads 283 

Ash-cake 289 

Batter-bread,  or  egg-bread...  288 

Corn-bread,  nonpareil.. 285 

"       risen  (No.  1)....  286 
"  *«    (No.  2)....  288 

*"        steamed 286 

Crumpets,  Indian-meal 287 

Johnny-cake 287 

"        Aunt  Jenny's...  288 

Muffins,  Indian-meal... 286 

Pone 288 

**   fried 289 

OrideUe-cakegf  wo^  tie...  289 

Cakes,  Auntie's  (wOAotile^)  291 

^      buckwheat. 290 

'*      batter  (risen) 292 

"      cream... 293 

"      flannel 290 

"  '*    (eggleas)- 291 


( 


INDEX. 


539 


PAOE 

Cakes,  Graham..... 291 

**     Grandpa's  f&vorite....  292 

'*     hominy 293 

"     rice 292 

"     velvet 293 

Flapjacks,  oom-meal 291 

Waffles,  *« Mother's" 294 

*'       rice  (JVo.  1) 294 

"         "    (No.  2) 295 

"         "    and  com-meal..  295 

"       -5™       294 

295 


risen., 
quick 


SKortoake^etc 295 

BunM,  Easter  (''  hot  cross").  298 

^  **      pkin.. 298 

Shortcake,  Grandma's 297 

"         Scotch 297 

**         strawbeny 296 

'<         Sannybank 295 


CAKE 299 

Almond  cake 318 

Black  cake 817 

Caramel  cake 810 

Chocolate  cake 810 

"       caramels 813 

**       AJairs 313 

Cocoanut  cake 304 

"         "  (Rosie's) 305 

cakes  (small) 306 

cake  (loaf,) ;  305 

cones. 306 

Corn-starch  cake 321 

Cream  cake. 303 

Dover    *'    810 

Erne's    «    814 


(( 


u 


PAGE 

French  cake 308 

Fruit        **  318 

Gold        **  319 

Huckloberry  cake. 321 


Jelly 
Lady 


it 


t( 


ti 


tt 


u 


u 


a 


^ 304 

{No,  1)...  309 
(No.  2)...  309 

807 

(No,  1)...  308 
(No.  2)...  308 

316 

311 

312 

303 

803 


Lee 

Lemon 
if 

Lincoln 

Marble 

Marbled 

Martha's 

Mrs.  M.'s  cup  ** 

Mrs.  M.'s  sponge-cake 814 

Macaroons,  almond 320 

Nut-cake 319 

''One,  two,  three,  four" cake 

(cocoanut) 305 

Pound  cake  (^0.1) 815 

•*         "     (No.  2) 815 

Silver     "     820 

Sister  Mag's  cake .—...  809 

Sponge  M •  814 

Washington     '' 816 

vv  mie                   ...•**.«••...•  o£iA 
White  Mountain  cake. 307 


Icing, 


301 


Almond  icing 302 

Chocolate  icing 313 

Plain  icing 301 

Small  Cakes,  Cbokies,  etc...  322 

Boston  cream  cakes 886 

Cake,  bread 884 


610 


INDEX. 


(I 


tt 


u 


tt 


PAGE 

Ckkes,  corrant 827 

"      New  Year's 823 

**      small  sugar 322 

"       {drop),  sponge 327 

Cookies,  Mrs.  B.'s 322 

**        coriander 823 

"        molasses 824 

"        ••Mother's" 823 

"        rice  flour, 324 

Crullers^  Annie*!! 829 

*'        Aunt  Margaret's...  828 

"        Katie's 829 

**        ''Mother's" 329 

Doughnuts,  quick 330 

**  risen 829 

Ginger  snaps  {No.  1) 324 

{No.  2) 825 

(jVo.3) 325 

Jumbles,  almond 327 

"         Aunt  Margaret's...  825 

"         lemon 326 

•*         Mr8.M.'8 326 

**         ring 326 

Lady's  fingers 828 

Macaroons,  almonds 320 

Nougat 336 

Wafers  {sweei) 385 


Qingerbroad 330 

Qingerbread  fruit...., 334 

loaf  (JVb.  1)....  382 
•*    (iVb.  2)....  332 

plain 332 

soft 330 

spiced 833 

aponge 331 

sugar 833 


PAGE 

PIES 887 

Apple  pie  {No.  1) 345 

"        "     {No.  2) 345 

Blackberrj  pie 355 

Cherry         «*  356 

Coooanut     "  {No.\) 352 

•*  {No.2) 352 

Crust  for  pies  {No.  1) 338 

•*       "    *•    {No.  2) 339 

"       **    "    transparent...  341 

Custard  pie 854 

"        apple  pie. 345 

*'        chocolate  pie 853 

**         corn-starch  pie  ....    354 

"        coooanut        "  353 

Lemon  pie  {No*  1) 349 

"      •*    {No.2) 849 

"       "    {No.  3) 3-50 

''      cream  pie 349 

Meringue     apple-pie    (and 

peach) 846 

Mince-meat,  apple,  for  pies..  344 

Mince  pie  {No.  1) 341 

•'  "    {No*  2) 842 

Mock  minoe-meat 844 

Orange  pie 860 

Paste,  French  poff 340 

"     puff. 340 

Peach  pie 355 

Pippin  "  846 

Potato  "  Irish ^....  348 

•'     "  sweet  {No.  1) 847 

"•    **     "      (^b.2) 348 

Plum    **  356 

Pumpkin  pie  {No.  1) 847 

"  "  (iVQ.2) 347 

Raspberry  pie 355 

Eipe  gooseberry  pie 856 


INDEX. 


541 


Khubarb     Pie. 
Squash  '' 

Strawberry  " 


PAGE 

..  358 
,.  347 
..  357 


Tarta. 

Tart,  chocolate 351 

"    cream  raspberry 357 

**    cranberry 356 

"    currant 355 

"    currant  and  raspberry.  355 

'''    damson 356 

"    green  gooseberry 356 

•*    lemon 351 

Tartlets,  orange 351 

"        rhubarb 357^ 

SERVANTS 358 

PUDDINGS 371 


Baked  Puddingt, 


372 


Alice's  pudding. 381 

Apple,  pudding,  baked 372 

"      dumplmgs    *'    376 

"      batter  pudding 374 

"      meringue  **      372 

"      and  plum  «      375 

*'      sweet         "      373 

"      and  tapioca  pudding.  375 

Arrowroot  pudding 378 

Batter  pudding  (No,  1) 386 

"  "        {No.  2) 3S7 

Bread       "         378 

**    and  butter  pudding.....  380 
"    fruit  ••      ...  379 

Bread  and  marmalade  pud- 
ding   380 

"Brown Betty" 874 


« 


<( 


PAGE 

Goooannt  padding 390 

Corn-starch    "     377 

"        "      meringue   pud- 
ding.   378 

Cottage  pudding 387 

Cracker         "      382 

Dorchester  plum  pud- 
ding   382 

fruit  pudding 333 

"      and  jam  "    384 

'*      suet         "    383 

Cup  puddings 388 

Dumplings,  apple  (baked)...  376 

"  Belle's 394 

Gkrman  puffs. 388 

Gooseberry  .pudding. 393 

Lemon  "  389 

**      meringue  pudding....  389 
Macaroni  **    ...  391 

Neapolitan  "     ...  391 

Newark  "    ...  393 

Orange  marmalade      ''     ...  390 
Pippin  "    ...  373 

Plum  •'    ...  394 

Queen  of  puddings 381 

Rhubarb  pudding 392 

Rice  "       (plain).,.  385 

**    and  tapioca  pudding....  385 

Rice-pudding  with  eggs 385 

Rice-flour  pudding 386 

Tapioca  •'        377 

Vermicelli      *'        391 


Boiled  puddings, 395 

Berry  pudding 396 

Cabinet     *'     400 

Cherry  or  currant  pyramid..  403 

Dumpling  apple  (No.  1) 398 

{No,  2) 398 


<» 


542 


IKBEX. 


PAQE 

Dampling,  ffiiit  raet 400 

"  rice.. 899 

**         Buet 399 

Eve's  padding 401 

Fruit        "      899 

'<    Talifie  padding 397 

Hackleberry    •*       « 396 

Indian  meal  padding 400 

Orange  roley-polej 402 

Queen's  plum-puddings 401 

FRITTERS.  PANCAKES, 

ETC 403 

Frfttcni  (Ab.  1) 405 

"        (^0.2) 405 

"        apple : 405 

"        b««d 40G 

*•       jelly-cake 407 

•«       jelly 406 

Pancakes 407 

*•     jelly  or  jam 408 

Queen's  toast 406 

SWEET,  OR  PUDDING 

SAUCES 408 

Bee-hiTesauce 408 

Br»ndy      "      (hard) 409 

Cabinet  podding  sauce 411 

Cream  sauce  (hot) 413 

Cream,  sweetened  (cold) 413 

CuRtard  saure. 412 

Fruit-pudding  sauce 411 

Jelly  sauce  (No,  1)... 412 

"         *•      (No.  2) 413 

Hard  sauce <• 408 

Lemon    **     410 

Milk       "    410 

White  wine  saooe  (liquid)**,  409 


PAOB 

CUSTARDS,  BLANC- 
MANGE, JELLIES 
AND  CREAMS^ 414 

Blanc-mange,  almonds 421 

"  arrowroot.....  421 

"  corn-starch...  420 

"  chocolate 424 

"  farina. 421 

'*  Neapolitan...  422 

•*  tapioca... 420 

"  sago 420 

«'  velvet 423 

Charlotte  Ruase,  chocolate...  424 
•'  "     gelatine.....  426 

"  "     cream 425 

«*  "     tipeey 425 

Cream,  Bavarian 417 

"        Spanish 417 

Custard,  almond. 415 

•«        boiled 415 

"        French  tapioca.. .•«.  419 

"        quaking 416 

"        snow 418 

Floating  Island 417 

Flummeiy 426 

Gooseberry  fool 427 

Jaune  mange 423 

Jelly,  calfs-foot 428 

'*    bird's  nest  in....  430 

"    elder 429 

"    orange 431 

"    wine  (boiled) 431 

"       "     (cold) 429 

'*    variegated 432 

Meringue,  cream 427 

Whipped  syllabub 427 


I 


INDEX. 


543 


PAGE 

ICE-CREAM  AND 
OTHER  ICES...  432 

Custard,  froa^n  with  fruit....  439 

Ice-cream,  almond 436 

"  chocolate 436 

"  coffee 437 

"  Italian 438 

*  lemon 438 

"  peach 439 

"  pine-apple 438 

"  raspberry       or 

strawberry...  439 

"  self-freezing 434 

"  tuttifmtti 440 

Ice,  cheny 441 

*'    currant  and  raspberry...  442 

"    lemon 440 

•*   orange.'. 441 

**    pine-apple 441 

**    strawberry  or  raspberry.  442 

y  Vida*8  surprise 442 

Ambrosia...... 443 

/  ''      Roman 443 

Apples 442 

Blackberries 444 

Carrants 446 

**      frosted 445 

Raspberries.. 444 

Salade  d'orange 442 

Strawberries 444 

PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT 

JELLIES 445 

Preserves, 
Apples  baked.... 457 


PAGE 

Apple  butter 449 

Apples,  preserved 449 

''        stewed  whole 458 

Cherries,  preserved 455 

Cmb  apple 450 

Damson,  preserved 452 

Figs  "  457 

Ginger,  "  454 

Gooseberry  jam 456 

Greengage  preserved. 450 

Lemon  marmalade 453 

Orange  marmalade 452 

**        peel,  preserved 452 

Peach  marmalade..... 447 

"      preserves. 447 

Pears,  baked 458 

"      preserved 447 

**      stewed 458 

Pine-apple  marmalade 453 

''        preserved.. 453 

Quinces,  baked 459 

Quince*cheeRe 449 

"        marmalade 449 

Quinces,  preserved 448 

Raspberry  jam 456 

Strawberry 455 

Strawberries,  preserved 455 

Tomato,  **      (green)  %57 

"  ••     (njje)..  456 

Unique  preserves...... 451 

Water-melon  rind,  or  citron  454 

FruiijeUies 459 

Blackberry  jelly 469 

Cherry  (wild)   and  currant 

jelly 461 

Crab-apple  jelly 462 

Currant  jelly...., 459 


544 


U^PEX. 


PAGE 

Fox  grape  (preen)  jellj....  462 
Grape  (ripe)  "  ...  462 

Peach  "  ...  461 

Quiooe  "  ...  462 

Raspberrj  and  carrant  '^  ...  461 
Strawberry  "  -  459 

CANNED  FRUrrS  AND 
VEGETABLES 463 

Berries  (brandied) 468 

•*      (canned) 463 

Com  and  tomatoes  (canned)  466 
Green  com  (preserved  in  salt)  46G 
Peaches  (brandied) 467 

"        (canned) 464 

Pears  (brandied) 467 

"     (canned) 464 

Plums  (brandied) 467 

"    (canned) 465 

Tomatoes  "       465 

Oamdy. 

Molasses  candy 468 

Sugar    •        **     468 

PICKLES 469 

Beans  (green),  and  radish- 
pods •*•  474 

Cabbage,  purple 473 

"         yellow 472 

Cauliflower,  pickled 474 

Cherries,  •'       479 

Cucumbers  or  gherk ins,  pick • 

led 470 

Cucumbers,  sliced  pickle....  475 
Mangoes,  melon        "        ...  471 

Mangoes,  pepper  pickle 472 

Nasturtium  seed,     **    474 


PAOB 

OnioB,  pickle 473 

Peach   (sweet),        *•    478 

•'      (unpeeled)   "     479 

Pear  >weei),  '*    478 

Picklette 480 

Plums,  pickled 478 

Tomato  (green),  pickle 477 

"  "*       soy 477 

«       ripe,  pickle, 477 

Walnut  or  butternut  pickle..  474 
Water-melon  rind  pickle 476 

DRINKS 480 

Blackbeny  cordial 485 

"  yinegar 485 

Ca«aulait 482 

Claret  punch 490 

Cherry  bounce 490 

Chocolate  « 483 

Cocoa- nibs,  or  shells.........    433 

"    prepared 483 

Coffee  (baiUd) 481 

Coffee. 480 

«    (without  boiling) 481 

Cranberry  wine. 486 

Currant,        "    486 

Ggg-DQgg 490 

Elderbeny  wine 485 

Jamuca  ginger-beer 487 

Lemonade,  or  sherbet 487 

Milk  tea  for  children 484 

Nectar 490 

Orangeade 488 

Raisin  wine 487 

Raspberry  royal.... 484 

"        vinegar. 484 

Regent's  punch.. 488 

Roman       «     «  489 


INDEX. 


545 


PAGE 

Sherry  cobbler 489 

Strawberry  sherbet ....M 488 

*'  wine 48G 

Tea 482 


THE  SICKROOM....  492 

Blanc-mange,  arrowroot....  500 

**  tapioca 603 

Beef-steak  and  mutton  chops  509 

Biscuit  or  wafers 500 

Broth,  beef  and  sago 490 

•*      calf-foot 505 

**      chicken 493 

'*      mutton 498 

^      real  and  sago 499 

Custard,  arrowroot 503 

Dried  rusk 609 

Dried  flour  for  teething  chil- 
dren   602 

£au  Bucr^ 611 

Gruely  Indian- meal 601 

'*    milk  and  rice 602 

*•    oatmeal 602 

•*    sago 600 

Jelly,  arrowroot  (plain) 600 

"  (wine)  600 

Jelly,  chicken 605 

*'    Iceland,  or  Irish  moss  608 

"    tapioca. 602 

Lemonade,  flaxseed 607 

**  Iceland,  or  Irish 

moss 608 

Milk,  rice-flour 503 

"    sago 604 

Milk,  tapioca 604 

Mint  julep 611 

Panada 604 


PAGE 

Panada,  bread  or  jelly 606 

Punch,  egg  and  mDk 508 

"      milk 507 

Rice,  boiled 604 

Sangaree,  or  porteree 610 

Tea,  beef. 498 

Teas.* 510 

Tea,  slippery-elm  bark 607 

Toaat,  baked 609 

"     dry 609 

Toddy,  apple 607 

w  aier,  ••••••••  «...•«.•«.••  ovo 

'*     jeUy 506 

"      toast 606 

Winc-whey 510 

THE  NURSERY...  611 

Arrowroot 614 

Barley 614 

Farina 613 

Hominy  and  milk 516 

Jelly,  rice 615 

Milk  and  bread 616 

"    condensed 517 

"    porridge 517 

Mush  and  milk 617 

Pudding,  Graliam 516 

"        rice  flour 516 

Wheaten  grits 615 

SUNDRIES 517 

Antidotes  for  poison.. 627 

Asthma,  to  relieve 627 

Blood,  to  stop  the  flow  of.....  627 

Bums,  to  cure 527 

Clean,  carpets  to 621 

"      knives 618 

''      kettles,  pots  and  tins  617 


546 


INDEX. 


PAGK 

Clean  brass  and  copper.....  619 

'*     china  andglasa ^  619 

•*      cloth  coat,  a 622 

**      black  wonted  dress..  626 
"      dirty  black  dress.....  625 

"      paint 621 

"      silk    622 

**      straw  matting 624 

"      silyer 618 

**      windows , 621 

Crape,  wrinkled,  to  renew....  523 
Feathers,  tumbled,  to  curl...  624 

Grease-spots,  to  remove 627 

Soap,  bar 629 

"     hard ^  628 

Soap,  soft 629 


PAGB 

SUins,  acids  and  alkalies...  626 
"     ink,  to  remove 626 

"     iron-mould,    to    re- 
move   526 

Stains,  from  marble,  to  re- 
move   625 

Stains,  mildew,  to  remove....  626 
Velvet,  to  restore  the  pile  of  523 
Wash,  doubtful  calicoes  tc.  522 

"      lace,  black  to .,  625 

"      lace,  white  to 624 

**     lawn,  or  thin  muslin  624 

"      woolens «.  624 

Water,  cologne  (-Yo.  1.) 528 

"      {No.  2.) 528 

Woolens»  to  keep 521 


CA 


^ 


