Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


COMMON   SENSeJ^3j_ 

IN      THE     HOUSEHOLD! 

A  UAKUAL  OF 

PRACTICAL  HOUSEWIFERY. 


MAEION    HAELAND.il,i,:n^  j\. 


"Wb  (q  npon  ae  practtail  m 
th]«  out  o(  boob,  he  gots  awi  aoea 


NEW  YORE: 
SCEIBNEE,    AEMSTllONG     &     CO., 

864  BBOADWAS. 

1874. 


H..k.d.,.Goo'^lc 


SDtered  «mraing  to  Act  of  Congress,  Id  ihe  jre»r  WTl,  *s 

CHARUtff  "OBIBBEB  *  CO., 
IB  the  Offloe  of  tlie  UbtulM  ai  Congreu  tt  'n 


Hosted  hyGoogle- 


FpLLOW-HOnaBKEEl'EHS, 
HT,    KiBT,    SOUTH   AND  WEST,  THIS 
TUB    GIJIAS'INGS    Or   MAirV    YEAItS, 
18  COBDlAI,LY 

IBebitaieli. 


.dhyGoogle 


;dhyGoogle 


INDEX  OF  GENEEAL  SUBJECTS. 


525 

26S 

afmitB 478 

Batter 

Oandy'.'..','.'.''''.'.'.''.';;.''.' 

"aimed  fniita 

"      vegetableB 

Catsups 

Cleau,  to,  etc. 

Company 

Com  bread 294 

Creamfl 

Custards 

Driufca. ...,,.....,..,.. ,,, 

Eggs 

Familiar  talk 

Fish 

Frittera 

Pmit,  ripe,  for  deasert 

Gingerbread 

loe-areain 

Icing. 


Jeliiea 425 

Jellies,  fruit 470 

Meats 98 

Milk 263 

Nuraery,  the ^ ,  522 

Panoakea 415 

Pickles 480 

Kes 349 

PreBerres 472 

Pork 128 

Poultry 83 

Puddinga 383 

Salada 300 

Sauces  for  Bah  and  meat. , . ,  183 

"      forpuddings 419 

Serranta .- 370 

Sick-room,  the 503 

SheU-fish 70 

Soap 639 

SoupB 37 

Sundries  528 

Tarts 363 

Vegetables 210 

Vinegara,  flarored    ....,..,  199 


.dhyGoogle 


.dhyGoogle 


A  TALK  as  woman  to  woman,  in  wHch  each  sliall  say, 
"  1 "  and  "  you,"  and  "  my  dear,"  and  "  you  know,"  as  6^66- 
ly  as  she  pleases.  It  would  not  be  a  womanly  chat  i£  we 
omitted  these  forms  of  expression.  An  informal  preface  to 
what  I  mean  shall  be  an  informal  book— bristling  with 
"  I's  "  fil  the  way  through.  If  sai<l  bristles  offend  the 
critic's  touch,  let  him  remember  that  this  work  is  not  pre- 
pared for  the  library,  but  forreaderswho  trouble  themselves 
little  about  editorial  "  we's "  and  the  circuuilocutioris  of 
literary  modesty. 

I  wish  it  were  in  my  po'wer  to  bring  you,  the  prospec- 
tive owner  of  this  volume,  in  pei'son,  aa  I  do  in  spirit,  to 
my  side  on  this  winter  evening,  when  the  baimies  ate 
"folded  like  the  flocks;"  the  orders  for  breakfast  com- 
mitted to  the  keej)ing  of  Bridget,  or  Gretchen,  or  Chloe,  oi 
the  plans  for  the  morrow  definitely  laid  in  the  brain  of  that 
ever-busy,  but  most  independent  of  women,  the  housekeep- 
er who  "  does  her  own  work."  I  should  perhaps  summon  ti» 
our  cozy  conference  a  very  weary  companion — weary  of 
foot,  of  hand — and  I  should  not  deserve  to  be  your  confidant, 
did  I  not  know  how  often  heart- weary  with  discouragement ; 
with  mnch  producing  of  ways  and  means ;  with  a  certain 
d^pondent  looking  forward  to  the  monotonous  grinding  of 
Jib  household  machine ;  to  the  certainty,  proved  by  past  ex 


>,Gooc^le 


11 

perience,  that  toilsome  as  has  been  tliis  day,  tlae  i 
will  prove  yet  more  abuadaot  in  labors,  in  trials  of  strength, 
ftnd  nerves,  and  temper.  You  would  tell  me  what  a  dreary 
(irobleni  this  of  "  woman's  work  that  is  never  done  "  is  to 
your  fainting  soul ;  how,  try  as  you  may  and  as  you  do  to 
be  systematic  aad  diligent,  something  is  always  "  turning 
up  "  in  the  treadmill  to  keep  you  on.  the  strain ;  how  you 
often  say  to  yourscli^  in  bitterness  of  spiiit,  that  it  is  a  mis- 
take of  Christian  civilization  to  educate  girls  into  a  love  o( 
science  ajid  hterature,  and  then  condemn  them  to  the  routine 
of  a  domestic  drudge.  You  do  not  see,  you  say,  that  years 
of  scholastic  training  will  make  you  a  better  cook,  a  better 
wife  or  mother.  You  have  seen  the  time — nay,  many  times, 
since  assuming  your  present  position — when  you  would  have 
exchanged  your  knowledge  of  ancient  and  modern  languages, 
belles-lettres,  music,  and  natural  science,  for  the  skill  of  a 
competent  kitchen-maid.  The  "  learning  how  "  is  such  hard 
work  t  Labor,  too,  uncheered  by  encouraging  words  from 
mature  housewives,  unsoftened  by  sympathy  even  from  your 
husband,  or  your  iather  or  brother,  or  whoever  may  be  the 
"  one  "  to  whom  you  "make  home  lovely."  It  may  be  that, 
in  utter  discouragement,  you  Have  made  up  your  mind  that 
you  have  "  no  talent  for  these  things." 

I  have  before  me  now  the  picture  of  a  wife,  the  mother 
of  fovu-  children,  who,  many  years  ago,  sickened  me  for  all 
time  with  that  phrase.  In  a  slatternly  morning-gown  at 
four  in  the  afternoon,  leaning  back  in  the  laziest  and  most 
r^ged  of  rocking-chairs,  dust  on  the  carpet,  on  the  open 
piano,  the  mantel,  the  mirrors,  even  on  her  own  had-,  she 
rubbed  the  soi^  palm  of  one  hand  with  the  grimy  fingers  of 
the  other,  and  with  a  sickly-sweet  smile  whined  out — 

"  Now,  I  am  one  of  the  kind  who  have  no  talent  for 
Buch  things  !  The  kitchen  and  housework  and  sewing  ara 
absolutely  hateful  to  me — iitterly  uncongenial  to  my  turn 


.dhyGoogle 


FA-WTI.TAIt  TALK  WITH   MY  EEABEE,  15 

of  mind.     The  Leiglit  of  my  eai-thly  ambition  is  t-o  liava 
nothing  to  do  but  to  pa,iiit  on  -selvet  all  day  !  " 

I  felt  then,  in  the  height  of  my  indignant  disgust,  that 
there  was  propriety  as  well  as  wit  in  the  "  Spectator's  "  sug- 
gestion  that  every  young  woman  should,  before  fixing  the 
wedding-day,  be  compelled  by  law  to  exhibit  to  inspectors  a, 
prescribed  number  of  useful  articles  as  her  outfit — napory, 
bed-linen,  clothing,  etc.,  made  by  her  own  hands,  and  that 
it  would  be  wise  legislation  which  should  add  to  these  proofs 
of  her  fitness  for  her  new  sphere  a  practical  knowledge  of 
house woi'k  and  cookery. 

If  you  have  not  what  our  Yankee  grandmothers  termed 
a  "  iaculty  "  for  housewifery — yet  are  obliged,  as  is  the 
case  with  an  immense  majority  of  American  women,  to 
conduct  the  affairs  of  a  household,  hilla  of  fare  included — 
there  is  the  more  reason  for  earnest  application  to  your  pro- 
fession. If  the  natural  taste  be  dull,  lay  to  it  more  strength 
of  will — resolution  bom  of  a  just  sense  of  tho  impoi-tance 
of  the  knowledge  and  dexterity  you  would  acquire.  Do 
not  scoff  at  the  word  "profession."  Call  not  that  common 
and  uncieaB  which  Providence  has  desigmited  as  your  life- 
work,  I  speak  not  now  of  the  labors  of  the  culinary  de- 
partment alone ;  but,  without  naming  the  other  duties  which 
yow  and  you  only  can  perform}<I  do  insist  that  upon  method, 
skill,  e:,onomy  m  the  kitdien,  depends  so  much  of  the  w  ell 
being  of  the  rest  of  the  househoH,  that  it  may  faifrlj  be 
styled  thp  root — the  foundation  of  housewilciy  I  own  it 
would  he  plea.'.antei  in  most  cascf,  especiiUy  to  those  who 
have  cultivated  a  taste  for  intellectual  (.uisuits,  to  hve 
above  the  heat  and  odir  of  this  departmtnt  It  must  ba 
very  fin?  to  have  an  eflicient  aide  de  camp  m  the  person  of 
a  French  cjok,  or  a  competent  sub  manager,  or  dn  acoom 
pliahed  head  ■«  uter  w  hr  recen  es  your  orders  lor  the  day  m 
your  boudoir  or  library,  and  executes  the  same  with  zea] 


.dhyGoogle 


16  COMMON    SENSE. 

and  discretioii  that  leave  you  no  room  for  anxiety  orregrot 
Such  mistresses  do  not  need  cookery-books.  The  few — and 
it  must  be  home  in  mind  that  in  this  country  these  are  very 
few — bom  in  an  estate  like  tbia  would  not  comprehend 
what  I  am  now  writing ;  would  not  enter  into  the  depths 
of  that  compassionate  yearning  which  moves  me  as  I  think 
of  what  1  have  known  for  myself  in  the  earlier  years  of  my 
wedded  life,  what  I  have  heard  and  seen  in  other  house- 
holds of  honest  intentions  brought  to  contempt ;  of  ill-di- 
rected toil;  of  mortification,  and  the  heavy,  wearing  sense 
of  inferiority  that  puts  the  novice  at  such  a  iPoful  disadvan- 
tage in  a  community  of  notable  managers. 

There  is  no  use  in  enlarging  upon  this  point.  You  and 
I  might  compare  experiences  by  the  hour  without  exhaust- 
ing our  store. 

"  And  then " — you  sigh,  with  a  sense  of  resentment 
upon  you,  however  amiable  your  disposition,  for  the  provo- 
cation is  dire — "  cookery-books  and  young  housekeepers' 
assistants,  and  all  that  sort  of  thing,  are  such  humbugs  I — 
dark  lanterns  at  best — too  often  WLli-o'-the-wisps." 

My  dear,  would  you  mind  handing  me  the  hook  which 
lies  nearest  you  on  the  table  there  ?  "  Dickens  ?  "  01 
course.  You  will  usually  find  something  of  his  in  every 
room  in  this  house — almost  as  surely  as  you  will  a  Bible. 
It  rests  an.d  refreshes  one  to  pick  him  up  at  odd  times,  and 
dip  in  anywhere.  Hear  the  bride,  Mrs.  John  Rokesmith, 
upon  our  common  grievance. 

"  She  was  im.der  the  constant  necessity  of  referring  for 
ttdvice  and  support  to  a  sage  volume,  entitled  '  The  Com- 
plete British  Family  Housewife,'  which  she  would  sit  oon- 
Bulting,  with  her  elbows  upon  the  table,  and  her  templec  in 
her  hands,  like  some  perplexed  enchantress  poring  over  tho 
Black  Art.  This,  pi-incipally  because  the  Complete  British 
Itousewife,  however  sound  a  Biiton  at  heart,  was  by  nc 


H..k.d.yGoogle 


famUiTAk  talk  with  my  beadkee.  n 

means  an  expert  Briton  at  expressing  herself  with  oleanies* 
in  the  British  tongue,  and  sometimes  might  have  issued  hef 
directions  to  equal  purpose  in  the  Kamtchatkan  language." 

Don't  interrupt  me,  my  long-suffering  sister  1  There  ia 
more  of  the  same  sort  to  come. 

"  There  was  likewise  a  coolness  on  the  part  of  '  Tte 
Complete  British  Housewife '  which  Mra.  John  Rokesmith 
found  highly  exasperating.  She  would  say,  '  Take  a  sala- 
mander,' as  if  a  general  should  command  a  private  to  cateh 
a  Tartar.  Or,  she  would  casually  issue  the  order,  '  Throw 
in  a  handful '  of  something  entirely  unattainable.  In 
these,  the  housewife's  most  glaring  moments  of  unreason, 
Bella  would  shut  Ler  up  and  knock  her  on  the  table,  apos- 
trophizing her  with  the  compliment—'  O  you  ARE  a  stupid 
old  donkey  !     Where  am  I  to  get  it,  do  you  think  ? '  " 

When  I  took  possession  of  my  first  real  home,  the  pre*. 
tily  furnished  cottage  to  -whicli  I  came  as  a  bride,  more  full 
of  hope  and  courage  than  if  I  had  been  wiser,  five  good 
friends  presented  me  with  as  many  cookery-books,  each  com- 
plete, and  all  by  difierent  compilers.  One  day's  investiga- 
tion pf  my  miTMge  convinced  me  that  my  lately-hired 
servants  knew  no  more  about  cookery  than  I  did,  or  affected 
stupidity  to  develop  my  capabilities  or  ignorance.  Too 
proud  to  let  them  suspect  the  truth,  or  to  have  it  bruited 
abroad  as  a  topic,  for  pitying  or  contemptuous  gossip,  I 
shut  myself  up  with  my  "  Complete  Housewives,"  and  in- 
clined seriously  to  the  study  of  the  same,  comparing  ono 
with  the  other,  and  seeking  to  shape  a  theory  which  should 
grow  into  practice  in  accordance  with  the  best  authority. 
I  don't  like  to  remember  that  time  !  The  question  of'  dis- 
agreeing doctors,  and  the  predicament  of  falling  between 
two  stools,  are  trivial  perplexities  when  compared  with  my 
Bltife  and  failure. 

Said  the  would-be  ittudious  countiyman  to  whom  a  mi* 


.dhyGoogle 


18  OOMUON  BESBE. 

cMevous  acquaintance  lent  "  Webster's  Unabridged  Dio 
tionary "  aa  an  enterteining  FolTime,  "  I  wrastled,  and  ] 
wraatled,  and  I  wi'astled  with  it,  but  T  couldn't  get  up  nmck 
of  an  interest." 

My  wrestling  begat  naught  save  pitiable  confusion,  hops, 
less  distress,  and  a  three-days'  aick  headache,  during  whicl 
season  I  am  not  sure  that  I  did  not  darkly  contemplate  sui- 
cide as  the  only  sure  escape  from  the  meshes  that  girt  me. 
At  the  height — or  depth — of  my  despondency  a  friend,  ona 
with  a  great  heart  and  steady  brain,  came  to  my  rescue. 
Her  cheerful  laugh  over  my  dilemma  rings  down  to  ma  , 
now,  through  all  these  years,  refreshingly  as  it  then  saluted 

"  Bless  your  innocent  little  heart ! "  she  cried,  in  her 
fresh,  gay  voice,  "  Ninety-nine  out  of  a  hundred  cook-books 
are  written  by  people  who  never  kepc  house,  and  the  hun- 
dredth by  a  good  cook  who  yet  doesn't  know  how  to  expre^ 
herself  to  the  enlightenment  of  others.  Compile  a  receipt- 
book  for  yourself  Make  haste  slowly.  Learn  one  thing  at 
a  time,  and  when  you  have  mastered  it,  '  make  a  note  on 
it,'  as  Captain  Cuttle  says — never  losing  sight  of  the  princi- 
ple that  you  vaisS  do  U  in  order  to  learn  how." 

Then  she  opened  to  me  her  own  neatly-written  "  Man- 
ual " — the  work  of  years,  recommending,  as  I  seized  it; 
that  I  should  commence  my  novitiate  with  simple  dishes. 

This  was  the  begirming  of  the  hoard  of  practical  receipts 
I  now  offer  for  your  inspection.  Por  fifteen  years,  I  have 
steadily  pursued  this  work,  gleaning  here  and  sifting  there, 
and  levying  such  remorseless  oontiibutions  upon  my  frienda 
that  I  fear  the  sight  of  my  paper  and  pencil  has  long  since 
become  a  bugbear.  For  the  kindness  and  courtesy  which 
have  been  my  invariable  portion  in  this  quest,  I  hereby  re 
turn.hearty  thanks.  For  the  encouraging  words  and  good 
wishes  that  have  ever  answered  the  hint  of  my  intention  tfl 


.dhyGoogle 


JTAMTT.TAT?.  TALE   WITH  MT   BEADKB.  IS 

collect  wliat  tad  proved  so  valuable  to  me  into  a  printed 
volume,  I  declare  myself  to'  be  yet  more  a  debtor.  T  do 
not  claim  for  my  compend  the  proud  pre-eminence  of  tha 
"  Complete  American  Housewife."  It  is  no  boastful  system 
of  "  Cookery  Taught  in  Twelve  Lessons."  And  I  should 
write  myself  down  a  knave  or  a  fool,  were  I  to  assert  that 
a  raw  cook  or  ignorant  mistress  can,  by  half-a-day's  study 
of  my  coilectiooj  equal  Soyer  or  Blot,  or  even  approximate 
the  art  of  a  half-taught  scullion. 

We  may  as  well  start  from  the  tight  point,  if  we  hope 
to  continue  friends.  You  must  learn  the  rudiments  of  the 
art  for  yourself.  Practice,  and  practice  alone,  will  teach 
you  certain  essentials.  The  management  of  the  ovens,  the 
requisite  thickness  of  boiling  custards,  the  right  shade  of 
brown  upon  bread  and  roasted  meats— these  and  dozens  of 
other  details  are  hints  which  cannot  be  imparted  by  writt«n 
or  oral  instructions.  But,  once  learned,  they  are  never  for- 
gotten, and  henceforward  your  fate  is  in  your  own  hands. 
You  are  mistress  of  yourself,  though  servants  leave.  Have 
faith  in  your  own  abilities.  You  will  be  a  better  cook  for 
the  mental  training  you  have  received  at  school  and  from 
books.  Brains  tell  everywhere,  to  say  nothing  of  intel- 
ligent observation,  just  judgment,  a  feithful  memoiy,  and 
orderly  habits.  Consider  that  you  have  a  profession,  as  I 
Baid  just  now,  and  resolve  to  understand  it  in  all  its  branches. 
My  hook  is  designed  to  help  you,  I  believe  it  will,  if  for 
no  other  reason,  because  it  has  been  a  faithful  guide  to  my- 
Belf— a  reference  beyond  value  in  seasons  of  doubt  and  need. 
I  have  brought  every  receipt  to  the  teat  of  common  sense 
»nd  experience.  Those  which  I  have  not  tried  myself  were 
obtained  from  reliable  housewives— the  best  I  know.  1 
iiave  enjoyed  the  task  heartily,  and  from  first  to  laat  the 
perauaeion  has  never  left  me  that  I  was  engaged  in  a  good 
caUBe,     Throughout  I  have  had  you,  my  dear  sister,  present 


.dhyGoogle 


20  COMMON  BBN8B. 

before  me,  witli  the  little  plait  between  your  brows,  the 
wistful  look  about  eye  and  mouth  that  reveal  to  me,  ai 
words  could  not,  your  deaire  to  "  do  your  beat." 

"  In  a  humble  home,  and  in  a,  humble  way,"  I  hear  you 
add,  perhaps :  you  "  are  not  ambitious  j "  you  "  only  want 
to  help  John,  and  to  make  him  and  the  ehildreu  comfortable 
and  happy." 

Heaven  reward  your  honest,  loyal  endeavors  !  Would 
you  mind  if  I  were  to  whisper  a  word  in  your  ear  I  don't 
care  to  have  progressive  people  hear  ? — although  progress 
is  a  grand  thing  when  it  takes  the  right  direction.  My 
dear,  John  and  the  children,  and  the  humble  home,  make 
your  sphere  for  the  present,  you  aay.  Be  sure  you  fill  it — ■ 
f%dl  I  before  you  seek  one  wider  and  higher.  There  is  no 
better  receipt  between  these  covers  than  that.  Leave  the 
rest  to  God.  Everybody  knows  those  four  lines  of  George 
Herbert's,  which  ought  to  be  framed  and  himg  up  in  the 
work-i-oom  of  every  house  : — 

"  A  servant,  with  this  clause, 
Makes  drudgery  diviue; 
Who  sweeps  a,  room  as  for  Thy  lawB 
Mukea  that  aud  th'  action  Sno." 

I  wonder  if  the  sainted  poet  knows — in  that  land  whera 
drudgery  is  one  of  the  rough  places  forever  overpast,  and 
work  is  immingled  blessing — to  how  many  sad  and  striving 
hearts  those  words  have  brought  peace  ? 

And  by  way  of  helping  John,  not  only  by  saving  money 
and  preparing  palatable  and  wholesome  dishes  for  his  table, 
but  by  sparing  the  wife  he  loves  many  needless  steps  and 
much  hurtful  care,  will  you  heed  a  homely  hint  or  two  re- 
lative to  the  practice  of  your  art?  Study  method,  and 
economy  of  time  and  strength,  no  less  than  of  materials. 
I  take  it  for  granted  that  you  are  too  intelligent  to  share  in 
the   vulgar  prejudice  against  labor-saving  machines.     A 


.dhyGoogle 


gAMn.TAB  TALK  'WITH   MT   EEADEE.  31 

raisin-seeder  costs  a  trifle  in  comparison  with  the  time  and 
patience  required  to  stone  the  fruit  in  the  old  way.  A  gooA 
e^-beater  ia  a  treasure.  So  with  farina-kettles,  syOabub 
chums,  apple-corers,  potato-peelers  and  slicera,  clothes- 
wringers  aud  sprinhlers,  and  the  like.  Most  of  these  are 
made  of  tin — are  therefore  cheap  and  easily  kept  clean. 
Let  each  article  have  its  own  plaee  in  the  closet  and  kit- 
chen, to  which  restore  it  so  soon  as  you  have  done  using  it. 
Before  undertaking  the  preparation  of  any  dish,  read  over 
the  receipt  carefully,  unless  you  are  thoroughly  familiar 
with  the  Mianufactuit.  of  it.  Many  excellent  housewives 
Lave  a  fashion  of  sayiug  loftily,  when  asked  how  such  things 
are  made — "  I  cany  all  my  receipts  in  my  head.  I  never 
wrote  out  one  in  my  hfe.  " 

And  yoiT,  if  timid  and  self- distrustful,  are  smitten  with 
shame,  keep  your  I'eceipt-hook  out  of  sight,  and  cram  your 
memory  with  ingredients  and  measures,  times  and  weights, 
for  fear  Mrs.  Notable  should  suspect  you  of  i-awness  and 
inefficiency.  Whereas  the  truth  is,  that  if  you  have  a  mind 
worthy  of  the  name,  its  powers  are  too  valuable  to  be  laden 
with  such  details.  Master  the  general  principles,  as  I  said 
just  now,  and  for  particulars  look  to  your  marching-orders. 
Having  refreshed  your  memory  by  this  reference,  pick  out 
from  your  household  stores,  and  set  in  convenient  order, 
within  reach  of  your  hand,  everything  you  will  need  in 
mating  ready  the  particular  compound  under  consideration. 
Then  take  your  stand  in  the  midst — or  sit,  if  you  can.  It 
is  common  sense — oftentimes  a  pious  duty,  to  take  judicious 
care  of  your  physical  health,  I  lay  it  do^vn  as  a  safe  aud  im- 
perative rule  for  kitchen  use — Ifever  stand  ■when  you  eon 
do  your  worlc  as  weU  while  silting.  If  I  could  have  John's 
ear  for  a  minute,  I  would  tell  him  that  which  would  lead 
him  to  watch  you  and  oxercise  wholesome  authority  in  thil 
regard. 


.dhyGoOC^^ 


W  COMMON  SENSE. 

Next,  pref  are  each  ingredieiifc  for  raising,  that  the  bread 
cake,  pudding,  soup,  or  ragout  may  not  be  delayed  when 
half  finished  because  the  flour  is  not  aiiled,  or  the  "  shorten- 
ing "  warmed,  the  sugar  and  butter  are  not  creamed,  the 
meat  not  cut  up,  or  the  herbs  not  minced.  Don't  begin 
until  you  are  ready ;  then  go  steadily  forward,  "  without 
haste,  without  rest,"  and  think  of  what  you  are  doing. 

"  Dickens  again?  " 

Why  not,  since  there  is  no  more  genial  and  pertinent 
philosopher  of  common  life  and  every-day  subjects?  To 
quote,  then: — 

"  It  was  a  maxim  of  Captain  Swosaer'e,"  said  Mrs. 
Badger,  "  speaking  in  his  figurative,  naval  manner,  that 
when  you  make  pitch  hot,  you  cannot  make  it  too  hot,  and 
that  Lf  you  have  only  to  swab  a  plank,  you  should  swab  it 
as  if  Davy  Jones  were  aH^v  yon.  It  appears  to  mo  that  this 
maxim  is  applicable  to  the  medical  as  well  as  the  nautical 
profession." 

"  To  all  professions  1 "  observed  Mr,  Badger.  "  It  was 
admirably  said  by  Captain  Swoaser;  beautifully  said  !  " 

But  it  will  sometimes  happen  that  when  you  have  heated 
your  pitch,  or  swabbed  your  deck,  or  made  your  pudding 
according  to  the  lights  set  before  you,  the  result  is  a  feilure. 
This  is  especially  apt  to  occur  in  a  maiden  efibrt.  You 
have  wasted  materials  and  time,  and  suffered,  moreover, 
acute  demoralization — are  enwrapped  in  a  wet  blanket  oi 
discour^ement,  instead  of  the  seemly  robe  of  complacency. 
Yet  no  part  of  the  culinary 'education  is  more  useful,  if 
turned  to  proper  account,  than  this  very  discipline  of  failure. 
It  is  a  stepping-stone  to  excellence — sharp,  it  is  true,  but 
often  sure,  ■  You  have  learned  how  not  to  do  it  right,  which 
is  the  next  thing  to  success.  It  is  pretty  certain  that  yon 
will  avoid,  in  your  second  essay,  the  rock  ■'ipon  which  you 
have  split  t^'^j  time.     And,  after  ail,  there  are  few  failure* 


.dhyGoogle 


PAinLIAB  TALK  WITH   MT 

wMch  are  utter  and  irremediable.  Scorched  soupa  and 
custords,  sour  bread,  biscuit  yellow  with  soda,  and  cake 
heavy  as  lead,  come  under  the  head  of  "  hopeless."  Thcj 
are  absolutely  unfit  to  be  set  before  civilized  beings  and 
educated  stomachs.  Should  such  mishaps  occur,  lock  the 
memory  of  the  attempt  in  your  own  bosom,  and  do  not  Tex 
or  amuse  John  and  your  guests  with  the  naiTation,  still  losa 
with  visible  proof  of  the  calamity.  Many  a  partial  failure 
would  pass  unobserved  but  for  the  clouded  brow  and  earnest 
apologies  of  the  hostess.  Do  not  apologize  except  at  the 
last  gasp !  If  there  is  but  one  chance  in  t«n  that  a  single 
person  present  may  not  discover  the  deficiency  which  haa 
changed  all  food  on  the  table  to  dust  and  gravel-stones  to 
you,  trust  to  the  one  chance,  and  carry  >S  the  matter 
bravely.  You  will  be  astonished  to  find,  if  you  keep  your 
wits  about  you  how  often  even  your  husband  will  remain 
in  blissful  ignoi-ance  that  aught  has  gone  wrong,  if  you  do 
not  tell  him.  You  know  CO  weU  what  should  have  been  the 
product  of  your  labor  that  you  exa^erate  the  justice  of 
others'  perceptions.  Console  yourself,  furthermore,  with 
the  reflection  that  yours  is  not  the  fii-st  failure  upon  record, 
nor  tire  million-and-flrst,  and  that  there  will  be  as  many  to- 
morrows as  there  have  been  yesterdays. 

Don't  add  to  a  trifling  contretemps  the  real  discomfort 
of  a  discontented  or  fretful  wife.  Say  bUthely,  if  John 
note  your  misfortune—"  I  hope  to  do  better  another  time," 
and  do  not  be  satisfied  until  you  have  redeemed  your 
pledge.  Experience  and  your  quick  wit  will  soon  teach  yon 
how'to  avert  impending  evils  of  this  nature,  how  to  snatch 
your  preparations  from  imminent  destruction,  and,  by  in- 
genious correctives  or  conccabnents,  to  make  tliem  present- 
able. These  you  wiU  soon  ieam  for  yourself  if  you  keep 
before  you  the  truism  I  have  already  written,  to  wit,  that 
feiy  feilurea  are  beyond  repair. 


by  Google 


COMMON  SENSE 


P«n  ret,  boiled,  „d  fried  on  M„T    t      f"  '''°'  """ 

AndifaSAo^dr"  r"' '"™  ~-"'™'^ 

— ed.ov,^„tS::!,^;;™;-  *^/J-»  a^s. 
»™  them.  I  !„„  tri.j  in  ft!'?!,,  ^""'''  '^»<'" 
fo«h  fte  .«„e.ion3  of  ftet"ftS  et  L°™ir5"' *",  « 


"'"  oliim  to  jonr  .Mention 
loumhing,  ,nd  often  elegant, 
ly,  eTorytlmig  depeid.  upon 

;-  »o.g.  .nd  not  .  ^*  rCg^iTS^er 


jom-  oTO  ta.t.  „d  .Ml       '■  """3"»«»«  depend,  upon 
jn.t  enough  .nd"  t  l";.,,.*"™."*  J«'"'»«'.  ~t 


P-ed.i.a     n„ft,„g  bett  ^^'brrirditrlS 

»iiu  iiapjtm  oe  will te  and  elossv  tIi-=  <ri-i^^    i 

.-iniug  clean;  „d  .dd  to  Z^tJ^'l'T'"'^'^ 


ta.l«      «t     ,j  "^^  loTover  opioureim  nn,,  be  hi. 


.dhyGoO^IC 


FAMILIAE  TALK   WITH   MT  EEADEE.  25 

Split  tte  crackers  (if  splittable),  toast  the  inside  liglitly, 
and  butter  while  hot.  Grate  your  cheese  into  a  jiowdery 
mound,  gamisiiiug  the  edges  of  the  plate.  If  you  have  no 
beverage  except  water  to  set  before  him,  let  this  be  cool, 
and  pour  it  out  for  him  yom^self,  into  an  iiTeproachable 
glass.  A  dirty  table-cloth,  a  smeared  goblet,  or  a  sticky 
plate,  -will  spoil  the  most  luxurious  feast  A  table  well  set 
is  half-spread. 

I  have  not  said  one-tenth  of  that  which  is  pressing  upon 
my  heart  and  mind,  yet  I  fear  you  may  think  me  trite  and 
tedious.  One  suggestion  more,  and  we  will  proceed  to  the 
details  of  business. 

I  believe  that,  so  far  as  care  can  avail  in  securing  such 
a  result,  my  receipts  are  accurate.  But  in  the  matter  of 
seasoning  and  other  minor  details,  consult  your  judgment 
and  Jolin's  taste.  Take  this  libei-ty  with  whatever  receipt 
you  think  you  can  improve.  If  I  chance  to  find  in  your 
work-basket,  or  upon  the  kitchen  dresser,  a  well-thumbed 
copy  of  my  beloved  "  Common  Sense,"  with  copious  anno 
tations  in  the  margin,  I  shaU,  so  far  from  feeling  wounded, 
be  flattr,red  in  having  so  diligent  a  student,  and,  with  your 
permianion,  shall  engraft  the  most  happy  suggesLions  upon 
the  second  edition. 

For  the  spscdy  issue  of  which,  the  petitioner  doth  hum- 
bly pray. 

Marion  HAiti,iND. 
8 


.dhyGoogle 


Ik  lookJng  orei  this  book  the  reader  wiU  notice  certain  receipt* 
marked  thos— 4<.  I  do  not  claim  for  these  greater  merit  ttan  should 
of  right  be  accorded  to  majiy  others.  I  merely  wish  to  call  the  ab- 
tention  of  the  novice  to  them  as  certainly  safe,  and  for  the  moat 
part  simple.  Every  one  thxis  marked  has  been  tried  by  myself; 
most  of  them  are  in  frequent,  some  in  daily  use,  in  my  own  family. 

My  reason  for  thus  singling'  out  comparatively  a  small  number  of 
receipts  from  the  rest,  ia  the  recollection  of  my  own  perpleiitieB— 
the  loss  of  time  and  patience  to  which  I  have  been  subjected  in  the 
eiamination  of  a  new  cookery-book,  with  an  eye  to  immediate  use 
of  the  directions  laid  down  for  various  dishes.  I  ha^e  often  and 
vainly  vrished  (or  a  finger-board  to  guide  me  in  my  seaioh  for  thoaa 
which  were  easy  and  sure,  and  which  would  result  satisfactorily. 
This  sort  of  directory  I  have  endeavored  to  supply,  taMi^  care, 
however,  to  inform  the  reader  in  advance  that,  so  far  aa  I  know, 
there  la  not  an  onsaf  e  receipt  in  the  whole  work. 

Of  conree  it  waa  not  necessary  or  expedient  to  append  the  abova 
B^  to  plain  "  roast  aM  boiled,"  which  are  in  common  use  evoij' 


.dhyGoogle 


SOUPS. 

The  base  of  your  soup  should  always  he  uncooked  meat. 
To  this  may  be  added,  if  you  like,  cracked  bones  of  cooked 
game,  or  of  underdone  beef  or  mutton;  but  for  fiaror  and 
nourishment,  depend  upon  the  juices  of  the  meat  which 
was  put  in  raw.  Cut  this  into  small  pieces,  and  beat  the 
bone  until  it  is  fractured  at  every  inch  of  its  length.  Put 
them  on  in  cold  water,  without  salt,  and  heat  very  slowly. 
Do  not  boil  fast  at  any  stage  of  the  operation.  Keep  the 
pot  covered,  and  do  not  add  the  salt  until  the  meat  is  thor- 
oughly done,  as  it  has  a  tendency  to  harden  the  fibres,  and 
restrain  the  fiow  of  the  juices.  Strain— always  through  a 
cuDender,  after  which  clear  soups  should  be  filtered  through 
a  hair-sieve  or  coarse  bobhinet  lace.     The  bag  should  not 


It  is  slovenly  to  leave  rags  of  meat,  husks  of  vegetables 
and  bits  of  bone  in  the  tureen.  Do  not  uncover  until  you 
are  ready  to  ladle  out  the  soup.  Do  this  neatly  and  quickly, 
having  your  soup-plates  heated  beforehand. 

Most  soups  are  better  the  second  day  than  the  first,  un- 
less they  are  warmed  over  too  quickly  or  left  too  long  upon 
the  fire  after  they  are  hot.  In  the  one  case  they  are  api 
to  Hcorch ;  in  the  other  they  become  insipid. 


.dhyGoogle 


OOUUOH   SEHSB. 


VEGETABLE     SOUPS. 
Green  Pe4.     (No.  1.)  4« 
4  lbs.  beef — cut  into  small  pieces. 
^  peck  of  green  peas. 

1  gallon  water. 

Boil  the  empty  pods  of  the  peas  in  the  water  one  hotj 
before  putting  in  the  beef.  Strain  them  out,  add  the  beef, 
and  boil  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half  longer.  Haif  anhour 
before  serving,  add  the  shelled  peas ;  and  twenty  minutea 
later,  half  a  cup  of  rice-flour,  with  salt  and  pepper.  A 
little  chopped  parsley  is  an  improvement.  After  adding 
the  rice-flour,  stir  frequently,  to  prevent  scorching.  Strain 
into  a  hot  tureen. 

Green  Pea.     (No.  2.) 

2  qts.  of  veal  or  beef  broth. 
^  teaspoonful  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  qt.  shelled  peas. 
Bring  the  broth  to  a  boil ;  put  in  the  peaa,  and  boil  for 
twenty  minutes.  Add  the  sugar,  and  a  bunch  of  green 
mint.  Boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour  more,  and  stir  in  the 
butter,  with  pepper  and  salt,  if  tlie  broth  be  not  aiifficiently 
Baited  already.  Strain  before  serving,  and  send  to  table  with 
Braall  squares  of  toasted  bread  floating  upon  the  top. 

Split  Pea  {driedj.  4< 
1  gallon  water. 

1  qt,  split  peas,  which  have  been  soaked  over  night. 
1  lb,  salt  pork,  cut  into  bits  an  inch  square, 
i  lb,  beef,  "  "  " 


.dhyGoogle 


TBQBTABLE   SOUPS.  29 

Put  over  the  fire,  and  boil  slowly  for  two  tours,  or  until 
the  quantity  of  liquor  does  not  exceed  two  quarts.  Pout 
into  a  cu  Jender,  and  press  the  peaa  through  it  with  a  wooden 
or  silrer  spoon.  Keture  the  soup  to  the  pot,  adding  a  small 
head  of  celery,  chopped  up,  a  Uttle  paisley,  or,  if  preferred, 
Buimner  savory  or  sweet  marjoram.  Have  ready  three  or 
tour  shoes  of  bread  (stale)  which  have  been  fried  in  buttet 
until  they  are  brown ;  cut  into  slices  and  scatter  them  upon 
the  surface  of  the  soup  after  it  is  poured  into  the  tureen. 

Pea  akd  Tomato.  >^ 
This  is  made  according  to  either  of  the  foregoing  receipts, 
in  summer  with  green— in  winter  with  dried  and  split 
peas.  Just  before  sti-aining  the  soup,  add  a  quart  of  toma- 
toes, which  have  already  been  stewed  soft;  let  the  whole 
come  t«  a  good  boil,  and  sti-ain  as  above  directed.  If  the 
Btewed  tomato  be  watery,  strain  off  the  superfluous  liquid 
before  pouring  into  the  pea  soup,  or  it  will  be  too  thin. 

Bean  {<lried).  i^ 

The  beans  used  for  this  purpose  may  be  the  ordinary 
kidney,  the  rice  or  field  bean,  or,  best  of  all,  the  Preach 
mock-turtle  soup  bean.  Soak  a  quart  of  these  over  night 
in  soft  lukewarm  water;  put  them  over  the  Are  next  morn- 
ing, with  one  gallon  of  cold  water  and  about  two  pounds  of 
salt  pork.  Boil  slowly  for  three  hours,  keeping  the  pot 
well  covered;  shi-ed  into  it  a  head  of  celery,  add  pepper- 
cayenne,  if  preferred— simmer  half  an  hour  longer,  strain 
through  a  cullender,  and  serve,  with  shoes  of  lemon  passed 
to  each  guest. 

Mock-turtle  beans,  treated  in  this  way,  yield  a  very  fait 
substitute  for  the  fine  calf 'a-head  soup  known  by  tlie  sams 


.dhyGoogle 


80  commoh  8enbb. 

Bean  akd  Corn.  ^ 
riiis  is  a  winter  aoup,  and  is  made  of  white  beana  pre- 
pared according  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  but  witii  the  addi- 
tion of  a  quart  of  di'iod  or  canned  corn.  If  the  formoi'  ia 
used — and  the  Shaker  sweet  com  is  nearly  as  good  for  the 
purpose  as  the  more  expensive  canned  gi-een  corn — soak  it 
overnight  in  warm  water — changing  this  early  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  pouring  on  more  warm  water,  barely  enough  to 
cover  the  com,  and  keeping  it  in  a  close  vessel  until  ready 
to  put  on  the  beana.  Let  all  boU  together,  with  pork  as  in 
the  bean  soup  proper.  Strain  out  as  usual.  Some  persoia 
have  a  habit  of  neglecting  tiie  use  of  the  cullender  in  mak- 
ing bean  soup,  and  serving  it  like  stewed  beans  whicli  have 
been  imperfectly  drained.  The  practice  is  both  slovenly 
and  unwholesome,  since  the  tusks  of  the  cereal  are  thus  im- 
posed upon  the  digestive  organs  of  the  eater,  with  no  addi- 
tional nutriment.  To  the  beans  and  com  may  be  added  a 
pint  of  stewed  tomato,  if  desired. 

AsPABAGus  (  White  soup). 
3  lbs.  veal.     The  knuckle  is  best. 
3  bunches  asparagus,  as  well  bleached  as  Vou  nan 

procure. 
1  gallon  water. 
Cut  off  the  hard  green  stem,  and  put  half  of  the  tender 
heads  of  the  asparagus  into  the  water  with  the  meat.  Bod 
in  a  closely  covered  pot  for  three  hours,  until  the  meat  ia 
in  rags  and  the  asparagus  dissolved.  Strain  the  liquor  and 
return  to  the  pot,  with  the  remaining  half  of  the  asparagus 
beads.  Let  this  boil  for  twenty  minutes  more,  and  add,  be- 
fore taking  up,  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  (cream  is  better)  in 
which  Las  been  stirred  a  tablespoonful  of  rice-flour,  an-ow- 
toot,  or  corn-starch.     "Wlien  it  has  fairly  boiled  up,  serve 


.dhyGoogle 


TEOETAELE   BOCPS.  3J 

witliout  furtJier  atraitdng,  with  small  squares  of  toast  in  th* 
tureen.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Asparagus  (  Green  soup). 
3  lbs.  veal — cut  into  small  pieces. 
J-  lb.  salt  pork. 
3  bunches  aspaj-agus. 
I  gallon  water. 

Oat  the  entire  stalk  of  the  asparagus  into  pieces  an  inch 
long,  and  when  tlie  meat  has  boiled  one  hour,  add  half  of  th« 
vegetable  to  the  Uquor  in  the  pot.  Boil  two  \\oxu^  longer 
and  strain,  pressing  the  asparagus  p«lp  very  hard  to  eztraet 
all  the  green  coloring.  Add  the  other  haJf  of  the  aspara- 
gus—(the  heads  only,  which  should  be  kept  in  cold  water 
until  you  ai-e  ready  for  them),  and  boil  twenty  minutes  more. 
Then  pi-oceed  as  with  tho  asparagus  white  soup,  omitting 
the  milk,  thickening,  and  salt.  The  pork  will  supply  the  . 
fatter  seasoning. 

Tomato  (  Winter  s&up).  •{• 

3  lbs.  beef. 

1  qt,  canned  tomatoes. 

1  gallon  water. 
Let  the  meat  and  water  boil  for  two  hours,  until  the 
liquid  is  reduced  to  littlo  more  thaai  two  quarts.     Then 
Btir  in  the  tomatoes,  and  stew  all  slowly  for  three-quartera 
of  an  hour  longer.     Season  to  taste,  strain,  and  serve. 

Tomato  {Swmmer  soii.p).J^ 
2^  Iha.  veal,  or  lamb. 

1  gallon  water. 

2  qts.  fresh  tomatots,  jieeled  and  cut  up  fine. 


.dhyGoogle 


89  COMMON   SEKEE 

Boil  the  meat  to  1,1111:  K  and  the  watei  doTV-n  to  two 
quarts.  fetiam  tkfi  hquoi,  put  in  the  tomatoes,  stirring 
tkem  very  hai  J  that  they  may  dissohe  thoroughly;  boU 
half  an  houi  biason  ^ith  pai  ley  oi  any  other  green  linrh 
you  may  picfer,  peppei,  and  silt  Sti  un  ij^nm)  and  stir  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  a  teaspoon&l  of  ■white  sugar, 
before  pouring  into  the  tureen. 

This  soup  is  more  palatable  still  if  made  with  the  broth 
in  which  chickens  were  boiled  for  yesterday's  dinner. 

Turnip. 

Knuckle  of  veal,  well  cracked. 

5  qts.  water. 
Cover  closely  and  stew  gently  for  four  hours,  the  day 
before  the  soup  is  wanted.  On  the  morrow,  skim  off  the 
fat  and  warm  the  stock  gradually  to  a  boil.  Have  ready 
an  onion  and  six  large  winter  or  a  dozen  small  summei 
turnips,  sweet  marjoram  or  thyme  minced  very  finely.  Pul 
these  into  the  soup  and  let  them  simmer  together  for  an 
hour.  Strain  ;  return  to  the  fire  and  add  a  cup  of  milk — 
in  wliich  has  been  stirred  a  tablespoonful  of  rice-flour  or 
(rther  thickemng — and  a  tabJespoonful  of  butter.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  let  it  boil  up  once,  stirring  all  the 
time,  as  is  necessary  in  all  soups  where  milk  is  added  at 
the  last,  and  remove  instantly,  or  it  will  scorch. 

Potato. 
A  dozen  large  mealy  potatoes. 

2  onions. 

1  Ih,  salt  pork. 

3  qta.  water. 

Boil  the  pork  in  the  clear  water  for  an  hour  and  a  half, 
then  take  it  out.     Have  ready  the  potatoes,  which,  aftei 


;dhyGoogle 


VEQETABLE   SOTJPa.  38 

beiLg  peeled  and  sliced,  should  lie  ia  cold  water  for  half  an 
hour.  Throw  tliem  into  the  pot,  with  the  diopped  onion. 
Cover  and  hoil  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  stirring  often. 
Beat  in  a  large  tahlespoonful  of  butter,  and  a  cup  of  cream 
or  milk  in  wliich  has  been  mixed  a  well-beat«n  e^.  Add 
the  latter  ingredients  carefully,  a  little  at  a  time  ;  stir  while 
it  heats  to  a  final  boil,  and  then  serve. 

This  ia  a  cheap  and  wholesome  dish,  and  more  palatable 
than  one  ifould  suppose  from  reading  tlie  receipt. 

Graham  Soup.  .Jfi 
3  onions. 

3  carrots. 

4  turnips. 
Isr 

J  bunch  celery. 
1  pt.  stewed  tomatoes. 

Chop  all  thevegetables,exceptthe  tomatoes  and  cablage, 
very  finely,  and  set  them  over  the  fire  with  rather  over 
three  quarts  of  water.  They  should  simmer  gently  for  half 
an  hour,  at  the  end  of  which  lime  the  cabbage  must  be  added, 
having  previously  been  parboiled  and  chopped  up.  In  fif- 
teen minutes  more  put  in  the  tomatoes  and  a  bunch  of  sweet 
^erbs,  and  give  aU  a  lively  boil  of  twenty  minutes.  Rub 
through  a  cunender,  return  the  soup  to  the  fire,  stir  in  a 
good  tablespoonfui  of  butter,  pepper,  ajid  salt,  half  a  cup  of 
cream  if  you  have  it,  thickened  with  eoni-starch;  let  it  boi', 
up,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 

OcHitA,  OR  Gumbo. 
Ochra,  or  oh-a,  is  a  vegetable  little  known  except  in  the 
far  South,  where  it  is  cultivated  in  large  quantities  and  ia 
very  popular.     A  favorite  soup  ia  prepared   from  it  Id  thf 


2* 


.dhyGoogle 


84  COMMON   8EN8K. 

2  qta.  of  ocliras,  sliced  thin, 

1  qt.  of  tomatoes,  also  sliced. 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

2  lbs.  of  beef,  cut- into  small  pieces. 

^  lb.  ham  or  pickled  pork,  also  cut  np. 
Put  the  meat  and  ocbraa  together  in  a  pot  with  a  quflri 
of  cold  water— just  enough  to  cover  them— and  let  them 
Btew  for  an  hour.  Then  add  the  tomatoes  and  two  quarts 
of  boUinff  water— more  if  the  liquid  in  the  pot  has  boiled 
away  so  as  to  expose  the  meat  and  vegetables.  Boil  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  longer,  akimmiug  oftpn  -with  a  diver 
spoon.  When  the  contents  of  the  vessel  are  boiled  to  pieces, 
put  in  the  butter,  with  eayenue  pepper  and  salt,  if  the  ham 
Las  not  seasoned  it  sufficiently.  Strain  and  send  up  with 
squares  of  light,  crisp  toast  floating  upon  it. 

Corn,  "^ 
1  lai^  fowl,  cut  into  eight  pieces, 
1  dozen  ears  green  com. 
Boil  the  chicken  in  a  gallon  of  water  until  tender— ii 
tough,  the  boiling  must  be  slow  and  long.     Then  cut  the 
corn  from  the  cob  and  put  into  the  pot,  and   stew  an  hour 
longer — still  gently.      Remove  the  chicken  with  a  cupful 
of  the  liquid,  if  you  wish  to  make  other  use  of  the  meat. 
Bet  this  aside,  season  the  corn-soup  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
parsley;  thicken  with  rice  or  wheat  flour,  boH  up  once, 
and  serve  without  straining,  if  the  com  be  young  and  tender. 
A  tolerable  fricassee  may  be  made  of  the  chicken,  unless 
It  has  boiled  to  rags,  by  beating  up  an  egg  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  adding  this  to  the  cupful  of  reserved  Hquor 
from  which  the  com  must  be  strained.     Boil  this  for  a 
moment,  thicken  with  flour,  throw  in  a  little  chopped  pars- 
ley, pepper,  and  salt,  pour,  while  scalding,  over  the  chiv:ken, 


.dhyGoogle 


wliijh  yon  Iiavo  arranged  in  a  diaii ;  garnish  with  circular 
elices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  curled  parsley. 


MEAT    SOUPS. 
Beep  Soup  (a  la  Julienne),  "f" 
6  lbs.  of  lean  beef.     The  shin  is  a  good  piece  for  this  pur- 
pose.    Have  the  bones  well  cracked,  carefully  extracting 
the  marrow,  every  bit  of  which  should  be  put  into  the 

6  qts.  of  wat«r. 

The  stock  must  be  prepared  the  day  before  the  soup  ia 
needed.  Put  the  beef,  bones  and  all,  with  the  water  in  a 
close  vessel,  and  set  it  where  it  will  heat  gradually.  Let  it 
boil  very  slowly  for  six  hours  at  least,  only  uncovering  the 
pot  once  in  a  great  while  to  see  if  there  is  danger  of  the 
water  sinking  too  rapidly.  Should  this  be  the  caae,  replen- 
ish with  boiling  water,  taking  eare  not  to  put  m  too  much. 
During  the  seventh  hour,  take  off  the  soup  and  set  it  away, 
still  closely  covered,  until  next  morning.  About  an  hour 
before  dinner,  take  out  the  meat,  which  you  can  use  for 
mince-meat,  if  you  wish ;  remove  the  cake  of  fat  from  the 
surface  of  the  stock,  set  the  soup  over  the  fire,  and  throw  in 
a  little  salt  to  bring  up  the  scum.  When  this  has  been 
skimmed  carefully  off,  put  in  your  vegetables.  These  should 
be:— 

2  carrots. 

3  turnips. 

Half  a  head  of  white  cabbage. 

1  pt.  greea  com — or  dried  Shaker  com,  soaked 

1  head  celery. 
1  qt.  tomatoes. 


.dhyGoogle 


36  COMMON   BENBE. 

These  should  he  prepared  for  the  soup  hy  slicing  them 
vety  small,  and  stewing  them  in  barely  enough  water  tc 
cover  them,  until  they  break  to  pieces.  Cook  the  cabbage 
by  itself  in  two  waters— throwing  the  first  away.  The  only 
exception  to  the  general  dissolution,  is  in  the  case  of  a  single 
carrot,  which  should  likewise  be  cooked  alone  and  whole, 
until  thoroughly  done,  and  set  aside  to  cool,  when  the  rest 
of  the  vegetables,  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled, 
are  added  to  the  soup.  Return  the  pot  to  the  fire  with  the 
vegetables  and  stock,  and  boil  slowly  for  half  an  hour  from 
the  time  ebullition  actually  hegins.  Strain  without  pressing, 
only  shaking  and  lightly  Etirriiig  the  contents  of  the  cul- 
lender. The  vegetables  having  been  added  with  all  theii . 
juices  already  cooked,  much  boiling  and  Rqueezing  are  not 
needed,  and  only  mafee  the  soup  cloudy.  Cut  the  reserved 
carrot  into  dice  and  drop  into  the  clear  liquor  after  it  is  in 
the  tureen,— also,  if  you  Like,  a  handful  of  vermicelli,  or 
macaroni  which  has  been  boiled  tender  in  clear  water. 

The  seasoning  of  this  excellent  soup  is  a  matter  of  taste. 
Some  use  only  salt  and  white  pepper.  Others  like  with 
this  a  few  blades  of  mace,  and  boil  in  the  stock  a  handful 
of  sweet  herbs.  And  others  fancy  that,  in  addition  to 
these,  a  glass  of  brown  sherry  imparts  a  flavor  that  renders 
it  peculiarly  acceptable  to  most  palates.  Send  to  table  very 
hot,  and  Lave  the  aoup-platea  likewise  heated. 

Veai  Soup  with  Maoaboni.  4" 

3  Ihs.  of  veal  knuckle  or  scrag,  with  the  bones 

broken  and  meat  cut  up. 
3  qta,  water, 
i  lb,  Italian  macaxoni. 
Boil  the  meat  alone  in  the  water  for  nearly  three  hours, 
uniil  it  is  reduced  to  shreds ;  and  the  macaroni  until  ten 


.dhyGoogle 


MEAT   SOUPS. 


der,  in  enough  water  to  cover  it,  in  a  vessel  by  itself.  Tlid 
pieces  should  not  be  more  than  an  inch  in  length.  Add  a 
little  butter  to  the  macaroni  when  nearly  done.  Strain  th( 
meat  out  of  the  soup,  season  to  your  taste,  put  in  the  ma 
caroni,  aud  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiledj  let  it  boil  up, 
and  serve. 

You  can  mate  macaroni  soup  of  this  by  boiling  a  pound, 
instead  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound,  in  the  second  vessel,  and 
adding  the  above  quantity  of  veal  broth.  In  this  caae,  send 
on  with  it  a  piate  of  grated  cheese,  that  those  who  cannot 
relish  macaroni  without  this  accompaniment  may  put  it 
into  their  soup.     Take  care  that  the  macaroni  is  of  uniform 


^w  uucn  suup.  iane  care  tiiactue  macarom  is  of  uniform 
length,  not  too  long,  and  that  it  does  not  break  while  stow- 
ing.    Add  butter  in  proportion  to  the  increased  quantity  of 


Beef  Soup  (brovm). 

3  lbs.  beef  cut  into  strips. 

3  onions. 

3  qts.  water. 
Put  beef  and  water  into  the  saucepan  fuid  boil  for  one 
hour.  Meanwhile,  slice  the  onions  and  fry  them  in  butter 
to  a  light  brown.  Di-op  into  the  pot  with  a  teaspoonful  ot 
cloves,  half  as  much  pepper,  same  quantity  of  mace  as  peji- 
per,  a,  pinch  of  allspice,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  celery, 
if  you  cannot  get  a  head  of  iresh  celery ;  also  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  powdered  savory  or  sweet  marjoram,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Stew  aU  for  two  hours 
more,  or  until  the  beef  has  boiled  to  pieces.  Strain  the 
Boiip  and  return  to  the  fire.  Salt  to  taste,  and  just  before 
taking  it  off,  pour  in  a  glass  of  brown  sherry  or  Madeii-^ 
wine. 


.dhyGoogle 


88  OOMMOH    SHJ^Btii. 

Mutton  ok  Lamb  BEOTn.  •}• 

i  lbs.  mutton  or  lamV- Zeaw — cut  into  small  piocca. 

1  gallon  water. 

■J  teac  Jpful  rice. 

Boil  the  unsftlted  meat  for  two  Lours,  slowly,  in  a  covered 
resael.  Soak  tke  riee  iu  enough  wann  water  to  coTer  it, 
Bud  at  the  end  of  this  time  ^dd  it,  water  and  all,  to  the  boil- 
bg  soup.  Cook  an  hour  longer,  stirring  -watchfully  from 
time  to  time,  lest  the  rice  ehould  settle  and  ad]iere  to  tha 
bottom  of  the  pot.  Beat  an  egg  to  a  froth  and  stir  into  a 
cup  of  cold  milk,  into  which  has  heeii  rubbed  smoothly  a 
tahlespoouful  rice  or  wheat  flour.  Mis  with  this,  a  little  at 
D,t  a  time,  some  of  the  scalding  liquor,  until  the  egg  is  so  far 
(looked  that  there  is  no  danger  of  curdling  in  tlie  soup. 
Pour  into  the  pot,  when  you  have  taken  out  the  moat, 
season  with  parsley,  thyme,  pepper,  ajid  salt.  Boil  up  faii-Iy, 
and  serve.     If  allowed  to  stand  on  the  fire,  it  is  apt  to  bum. 

This  soup  may  be  made  from  the  liquor  in  which  a  leg 
of  mutton  has  been  boUed,  provided  too  much  salt  was  not 
put  in  with  it.  It  is  especially  good  when  the  stock  is 
chicken  broth.  For  the  sick  it  is  palatable  and  nutritious 
with  the  rice  left  in.  When  strained  it  makes  a  nice  white 
table  soup,  and  is  usually  relished  by  aU. 

Vermicelli  Soup.  ■{• 

4  lbs.  lamb,  from  which  every  particle  of  fat  has 

been  removed. 
1  lb.  veal. 
A  slice  of  coj-ned  ham. 

5  qts.  water. 

Cut  up  the  meat,  cover  it  with  a  quart  of  water,  and 
get  it  back  on  the  range  to  heat  very  gradually,  keeping  it 
sell .     At  the  end  nf  an  hour,  add  four  quarti 


.dhyGoogle 


MBAI   eOTIPS.  39 

boiling  water,  ftnd  coot  imtil  the  meat  is  in  shreds.  Season 
Witt  salt,  sweet  herbs,  a  chopped  shallot,  two  tcaspoonfula 
Worcestershire  sauce,  and  when  these  have  boiled  in  the 
soup  for  ten  minutes,  strain  and  return  to  the  fire.  Have 
ready  about  a  third  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli  (or  macaroni) 
which  has  been  boiled  tender  in  dear  water.  Add  this ; 
boil  up  once,  and  pour  out. 

In  all  receipts  in  which  ham  is  mentioned  as  seasoning, 
reference  is  made  to  corned,  not  smoked  pork.  The  smoke 
imparts  an  undisguisable,  and,  to  many,  an  unpleasant 
flavor,  especially  to  delicate  soups  and  ragouts. 

MocE-TuBTLB  OE  Calf's  Head  Soup,  t^t 

1  largo  calf's  head,  well  cleaned  and  washed. 
4  pig's  feet,  "         "         "         " 

This  soup  should  always  be  pi-epared  the  day  before  it 
is  to  be  sei-ved  up.  Lay  the  head  and  fset  in  the  bottom  of 
a  large  pot,  and  cover  with  a  gallon  of  water.  Let  it  boil 
yiree  hours,  or  until  the  flesh  will  slip  easily  from  the 
bones.  Take  out  the  head,  leaving  in  the  feet,  and  allow 
those  to  boil  steadily  while  you  cut  the  meat  from  the 
head,  Select  with  cai-e. enough  of  the  fatty  portions  which 
lie  on  the  top  of  the  head  and  the  cheeks  to  fill  a  tea-cup, 
and  set  them  aside  to  cool.  E«move  the  brains  to  a  saucer 
and  also  set  aside.  Chop  the  rest  of  the  meat  with  the 
tongue  very  fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  powdered  mar- 
joram and  thyme,  a  toaspoonful  of  cloves,  the  same  of  mace, 
half  as  much  allspice,  and  a  grat«d  nutmeg,  and  return  to 
the  pot.  When  the  flesh  falls  from  the  bones  of  the  pig's 
feet,  take  out  the  latter,  leaving  in  the  gelatinous  meat. 
Let  all  boii  together  slowly,  without  removing  the  cover, 
for  t-wo  hours  more  ;  take  the  soup  from  the  fire  and  set  it 
a-way  until  the  next  day.  _  An  hour  before  dinner,  set  on 


.dhyGoogle 


10  COUMOM   SBNSEi. 

the  stoct  to  warm.  When  it  boils  strain,  carefully,  and 
droji  in  the  meat  you  have  reserved,  ■which,  when  cold, 
should  be  cut  into  small  squares.  Have  these  all  ready  aa 
well  as  the  force-meat  balls.  To  prepare  these,  rub  the 
yolks  o£  five  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  paste  in  a  Wedgewood 
mortar,  or  in  a  howl,  with  tb.e  back  of  a  silver  tablespoon, 
adding  gradually  the  brains  to  moisten  thorn,  also  a  little 
butter  and  salt.  Mix  with  these  two  eggs  beaten  very 
light,  flour  your  hands,  and  make  this  paste  into  balls  about 
the  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg.  Throw  them  into  the  soup  five 
minutes  before  you  take  it  off  the  fire ;  stir  in  a  large 
tablesjjoonful  of  browned  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little 
cold  water,  let  it  boil  iip,  and  finisli  the  seasoning  by  the 
addition  of  a  glass  and  a  half  of  ffoodwiae — sherry  or  Ma- 
deii-a — and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  It  should  not  boil  more 
than  half  an  hour  on  the  second  day.  Serve  with  sliced 
lemon.  Some  lay  the  slices  upon  the  top  of  the  soup, 
but  the  better  plan  is  to  pass  to  the  guests  a  small  dish 
containing  these. 

Tliis  has  been  well  called  the  "  king  of  soups,"  and  is 
actually  more  delicious  than  the  real  turtle  soup.  It  is 
hoped  no  one  will  be  afraid  to  undertake  the  preparation 
of  it  on  account  of  the  apparently  tedious  and  delicate  mode 
I  have  described.  If  the  directions  be  closely  followed,  tha 
result  is  sure  to  be  satisiactory,  and  the  task  ia  really  much 
less  troublesome  than  it  appears  to  be. 

GiBLET  Soup. 
Feet,  neck,  pinions,  and  giblets  of  three  chickens, 

or  of  two  ducks  or  two  geese. 
li  lb.  veaJ. 
^  lb.  ham. 
3  qts.  water. 
Crack  the  bones  into  small  pieces,  chop  the  giblets  (nd 


.dhyGoogle 


MEAT   SOUPS.  41 

rery  fine)  and  cut  the  meat  iiito  strips.  Put  all  tof;<=!;lie[ 
over  the  fire,  with  a  bimch  of  sweet  herbs  and  a  [liiieh  o' 
allspice.  Stew  slowly  for  two  hours.  Piofc  out  the  giblet* 
with  a  skimmer  or  fork,  aud  set  them  aside  iu  a  pan  wheif 
they  will  keep  warm.  Take  up  a  teacupful  of  the  hot  soup 
and  stir  into  this  a  large  tabiespoonful  of  flour  which  has  been 
wet  with  cold  water  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste ;  then, 
two  tablespoonfula  of  butter.  Eetnm  to  the  pot  and  boil 
for  fifteen  minutea  ;  season  at  the  last  with  a  glass  of  brown 
sherry  and  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  or  walnut  catsup.  A 
little  Worcestershire  sauce  is  an  improvement.  Finally, 
add  the  giblets,  and  serve. 


Ebown  Gravy  Soup. 

5  lbs,  beef. 
1  carrot. 

1  turnip. 

1  head  of  celery, 

6  onions,  if  small  button-onions — 3,  if  large, 
3^  qts.  water. 

Have  ready  some  nice  dripping  in  a  frying-pan.  SUje 
the  onions  and  fry  them  brown.  Take  them  out  and  sel 
them  by  in  a  covered  pan  to  keep  warm.  Cut  the  beef  into 
bits  an  inch  long  and  half  an  inch  thick,  and  fry  them  brown 
also,  turning  frequently  lest  they  should  bum.  Chop  the 
vegetables  and  put  them  with  the  meat  and  onions  into  a 
covered  pot.  Pour  oa  the  water  and  let  all  stew  together 
for  two  hours.  Then  throw  in  salt  and  pepper  and  boil  one 
hour  longer,  skimming  very  carefully.  Strain;  put  baok 
over  the  fii-e ;  boil  up  once  more  to  make  the  liquid  per- 
fectly clear,  skim,  and  add  a  handful  of  Tenaicelli  that  has 
been  boiled  sepai-ately  and  drained  dry.  The  safest  plan  ia 
to  put  in  the  vermicelli  after  the  soup  is  poured  into  the 


sy  Google 


i2  COMMON   BENBll. 

tureen.  Dc  not  stir  before  it  goes  to  table.  The  contenlt 
of  the  tiireeu  should  be  el  ear  as  amber.  Some  adt!  half  a 
glass  of  j>aie  sherry.  This  is  a  fine  show  soup,  and  verj 
popular. 

Veal  and  Sago  Soup. 

2^  lbs.  veal, 

J  lb.  pearl  sago. 

1  pt.  milk, 

3  qts.  water. 

Put  on  the  veal  and  water — the  meat  chopped  finely — 
Bud  boil  for  two  hours  until  the  liquid  is  reduced  to  aboni 
one-half  the  original  quantity.  Sti'ain  out  the  shreds  of 
meat  through  a  coarse  cloth,  and  put  the  soup  again  over 
the  fire.  Meanwhile  the  sago  should  be  washed  in  several 
waters,  and  soaked  half  an  hour  in  warm  water  enough  to 
cover  it.  Stir  it  into  the  strained  broth  and  boil — stirring 
very  often  to  prevent  lumping  or  soorciiing — half  an  houi 
more.  Heat  the  pi'llf  almost  to  boiling;  beat  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  very  light ;  mix-  with  the  milk  gradually,  aa  in 
making  boiled  custard,  and  pour — stirring  all  the  while — 
into  the  soup.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt;  boU  up  once 
to  cook  the  eggs,  and  serve.  Should  the  liquid  be  too  thick 
after  putting  in  the  sago,  replenish  with  boiling  water.  It 
Bhould  be  about  the  consistency  of  hot  custard. 

This  soup  is  very  good,  if  chicken  broth  be  substituted 
for  the  veal.  It  is  very  strengthening  to  invalids,  and  ea- 
pecially  beneficial  to  those  suffering  with  colds  or  pulmonsrj 
affections. 

Chicken  Soup.  ■$« 

2  young  fowls,  or  one  full-growii. 

^  lb.  ham, 

1  gallon  of  water. 


.dhyGoogle 


MEAT   eOTJPS.  43 

(!iit  the  fowls  into  pieces  as  for  fi-icnssee.  Put  these 
witli  the  ha-m.  into  tlie  pot  with  a  quart  of  water,  or  enough 
to  cover  them  fairly.  Stew  for  an  liour,  if  the  fowls  arc 
tender ;  if  tough,  until  you  can  cut  easily  into  the  breast. 
Take  out  the  breasts,  leaving  the  ro&t  of  the  meat  in  tbe 
pot,  and  add  the  remainder  of  the  watei- — boiling  hot.  Keep 
the  soup  stewing  slowly  while  you  cho]i  up  the  white  meat 
you  have  selected.  Eub  the  yolts  of  four  hcud  bailed  eggs 
Hinooth  in  a  mortar  or  bowl,  moistening  to  a  pi&te  with  a 
few  sjjoonfula  of  the  soup.  Mix  with  these  a  hdndfiil  o( 
fine  bread-crumbs  and  the  chopped  nifi^t,  and  make  it  into 
small  balls.  WLen  the  soup  has  boiled,  m  all,  two  houiB 
and  a  half,  if  the  eliicken  be  reduced  to  shreds,  strain  out 
the  meat  and  bones.  Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper, 
with  a  bunch  of  chopped  parsley.  Drop  in  the  prepared 
force-meat,  and  after  boiling  ten  minutes  to  incoqjorate  tlie 
ingredients  well,  add,  a  little  at  a  time,  a  pint  of  rich  millr 
tliickened  with  flour,     EoU  up  once  and  serve. 

A  chicken  at  least  a  year  old  would  make  better  soup 
than  a  younger  fowL 

"Venison  Soup.  "J 
3  lbs.   of  venison.     What  are  considered  tlie  in- 
ferior pieces  will  do. 
1  lb.  ham  or  salt  pork. 

1  head  of  celery. 
Cut  up  the  meat ;  chop  the  vegetables,  and  put  on  with 
just  en-ngh  water  to  covei-  them,  keeping  on  the  lid  of  tlie 
pot  aL  the  while,  and  stew  slowly  for  one  hour.  Then  add 
two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  with  a  few  blades  of  mace 
and  a  dozen  whole  peppers.  Or,  should  you  prefer,  a  littio 
cayenne.  Boil  two  hours  longer,  salt,  and  strain.  Return 
the  I'q-ior  to  the  pot;   stir   in   a  tablespoonful  of  butter 


.dhyGoogle 


44  COMMON   BENSE. 

thicken  witb  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  wet  into  » 
Bniooth  thin  i>ast«  with  cold  water;  add  a  tablespooufu. 
walmit  or  niushi-oom  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcester 
ebire  or  other  pungent  sauce,  and  a,  generous  glass  of  Ma- 
deira or  brown  sherry. 

Hake  or  Eabbit  Soup. 

Dissect  the  rabbit,  crack  the  bones,  and  prepare  precisely 
as  you  would  the  venison  soup,  only  putting  in  three  small 
onions  instead  of  one,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Hares 
which  are  too  tough  to  be  cooked  in  any  other  way,  make 
excellent  game  soup.  Also,  the  large  gray  squirrel  of  the 
Middle  and  Southern  States. 

I  have  eaten  squirrel  soup  that  was  really  delicious. 

Ox-Tail  Soup. 

1  ox-taih 

2  lbs.  lean  beef. 
i  carrots. 

3  onions. 
Thyme. 

Cut  the  taU  into  several  pieces  and  fry  brown  in  butter, 
Slice  the  onions  and  carrots,  and  when  you  remove  the  ox- 
tail from  the  fiying-paii,  put  in  these  and  brown  also. 
Wlien  done,  tie  them  in  a  hag  with  a  bunch  of  thyme  and 
drop  into  the  soup-pot.  Lay  the  pieces  of  ox-tail  in  the 
same;  then  the  meat  cut  into  small  slices.  Grate  over 
them  the  two  whole  carrots,  and  add  four  quarts  of  cold 
water,  with  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  from  four  to  six  hours, 
in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  tail.  Strain  fifteen  minutes 
before  serving  it,  and  thicken  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
browned  flour.     Boil  ten  minutes  longer. 


.dhyGoogle 


FISH  SOUPS. 
Oyster  Soup  (No.  1).  >£• 
2  qta.  of  oysters. 

1  qt.  of  milk. 

2  tablesiwonfuls  butter. 
1  teacupf«l  water. 

Strain  tlie  Kquor  from  the  oysters,  add  to  it  the  water, 
Hid  set  it  over  the  fire  to  heat  slowly  in  a  covered  vessel. 
When  it  is  near  boiling,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
stir  in  the  milk,  after  which  stir  constantly,  unless,  as  13 
wisest,  you  heat  the  liquor  iu  a  vessel  set  ia  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water.  "When  the  soup  again  neara  the  boiling-point, 
add  the  oysters,  and  let  them  stew  until  they  "  ruffle  "  on 
the  edge.  This  will  be  in  about  five  minutes.  Then  put  in 
the  butter  and  stir  well  untU  it  is  melted,  when  the  soup  ia 
ready  for  use. 

Serve  with  sliced  lemon  and  oyster  or  cream  crackers. 
Some  use  maoe  and  nutmeg  ia  seasoning.  The  crowning 
excellence  in  oyster  soup  is  to  have  it  cooked  just  enough. 
Too  much  stewing  ruins  the  bivalves,  while  an  underdone 
oyster  is  a  flabby  abominatioa.  The  plumpness  of  the  main 
body  and  ruffled  edge  are  good  indices  of  their  right  con- 
dition. 

Oyster  Soup  (No.  2). 
2  qts.  of  oysters. 

1  qt.  milk. 

1  teacupful  of  water, 
Str^tt  the  Hquor  from  the  oysters  into  a  saucepan,  poui 
tn  with  it  the  water.     Season  with  cayenne  pepper  and  a  lit. 
tie  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  mingled  nutmeg,  mace,  and  cloves. 


.dhyGoogle 


46  COMMON   BENBE. 

When  tho  liquor  is  almost  boiling,  add  lialf  the  oyster 
chopped  finely  Emd  boil  live  minutes  quite  briskly.  Strain 
the  soup  and  return  to  saucepan  with  the  milk.  Have  ready  ■ 
some  force-meat  halls,  not  larger  than  marbles,  made  of  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  boiled  hard  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  a  little  butter,  then  mixed  with  six  recw  oysters  chop- 
ped very  finely,  a  little  salt,  and  a  raw  egg  well  beaten,  to  bind 
the  ingredients  together.  Flour  your  hands  well  and  roll  the 
force-meat  into  pellets,  laying  them  upon  a  cold  plate,  so  aa 
not  to  touch  one  another,  until  needed.  Then  put  the  re- 
served whole  oysters  into  the  hot  soup,  and  when  it  begins  to 
boil  again,  drop  in  the  force-meat  matbles.  Boil  until  the 
oysters  "  ruffle,"  by  wldch  time  the  balls  will  also  be  done. 

Serve  with  sliced  lemon  and  ci-ackers.  A  liberal  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  stirred  ia  gently  at  the  last  is  an  im- 
provement. 

Clam  Soup. 

50  clams. 

1  qt.  nulk. 

1  pint  water. 

2  tablospoonfuls  butter. 

If  you  cannot  buy  the  clams  already  opened,  put  them  in 
a  large  pan  or  tray,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them.  Thia 
will  open  the  sheDs.  Take  them  out  as  fast  as  they  unclose, 
that  you  may  save  all  the  liquor  they  contain.  Drain  off  thia 
and  put  it  over  the  fire  with  a  dozen  whole  peppers,  a  few 
bitaof  cayenne  pods,  half  a  dozen  blades  of  mace,  and  salt  ta 
taste.  Let  it  bod  for  ten  minutes,  then  put  in  the  clams  and 
boa  half  an  hour  quite  fast,  keeping  the  pot  closely  covered. 
If  you  dislike  to  see  the  whole  spices  in  the  tureen,  strain 
them  out  before  the  clams  are  added.  At  the  end  of  tlie 
half  hour  add  the  mdt,  which  has  been  heated  to  scalding, 
not  boiling,  in  another  vessel.  Boil  up  again,  taking  cara 
the  soup  dqes  not  bum,  and  put  in  the  butter.     Tiieu  serve 


.dhyGoogle 


wittout  delay.  If  you  desire  a  thicker  soup,  stir  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  rice-flour  into  a  little  cold  milk,  and  put  in 
with  the  quai-t  of  hot. 

Cat-fish  Soup.  •!> 
Few  persona  are  aware  into  what  a  variety  of  tempting 
dishes  this  much-abused  fish  can  be  m^de.  Those  who 
have  only  seen  the  bJoated,  unsightly  creatures  that  pUy 
the  scavengers  about  city  wharyea,  are  ey^usable  for  enter- 
taining  a  prejudice  against  them  aa  an  article  of  fooii.  But 
the  small  cat-fish  of  our  inland  lakes  and  streams  are  alto- 
gether respectable,  except  in  their  unfortunate  name. 

6  cat-fish,  in  average  weight  half  a  pound  apiece. 

^  lb.  salt  pork. 

1  pint  milk. 

2e^s. 

1  head  of  celery,  or  a  small  bag  of  celery-seed. 
Skin  and  clean  the  fish  and  cut  them  up.  Chop  the 
pork  into  small  pieces.  Put  those  together  into  the  pot, 
with  two  quarts  of  water,  chopped  sweet  herbs,  and  the 
celery  seasoning.  Boil  for  an  hour,  or  unti]  fish  and  pork 
are  in  rags,  and  strain,  if  you  desii-o  a  regular  soup  for  a 
first  course.  Ectum  to  the  saucepan  and  add  the  milk, 
which  should  be  already  hot.  Next  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
froth,  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  e.  wahiut.  Boil  up 
once,  and  serve  with  dice  of  toasted  bread  on  the  top. 
Pass  sliced  lemon,  or  walnut  or  butternut  pickles  with  it. 

Eel  Soup. 
Eel  soup  is  made  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  cat- 
fish, only  boiled  longer,     A  chopped  onion  is  no  deti-iment 
to  the  flavor   of  either,  and  wiO  removj  the  muddy  taata 
which  these  fish  sometimes  acquii-e  from  turbid  streams. 


.dhyGoogle 


Lobster  Soup. 
2  qts.  veal  or  cHokcn  broth,  well  strained. 

1  large  lobster. 

2  eggs— boiled  hard 

Boil  the  lobster  and  extract  the  meat,  setting  aside  th. 
ooral  in  a  cool  place.  Cut  or  chop  up  the  meat  found  in 
the  claws.  Eub  the  yolts  of  the  eggs  to  a  paste  with,  a 
teaspooufui  of  butter.  Pouud  and  i-ub  the  claw-meat  in 
the  same  majmer,  aud  miit  with  the  yolka  Beat  up  a  raw 
egg,  and  stir  into  the  paste ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and, 
if  you  like,  mace ;  make  into  force-meat  baUs,  and  set  away 
with  the  coral  to  cool  and  harden.  By  this  time  the  stock 
should  be  well  heated,  when  put  in  the  rest  of  the  lobster- 
nleat  cut  into  square  bits.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  which  time 
employ  in  pounding  the  coral  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  or 
earthenware  bowl,  rubbing  it  into  a  fine,  even  paste,  with 
the  addition  of  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  broth,  gradually 
worked  in  until  it  is  about  the  consistency  of  boiled  stai-ch. 
Stir  very  carefully  into  the  hot  soup,  which  should,  in  the 
process,  blush  into  a  roseate  hue.  Lastly,  drop  in  the 
force-meat  balls,  after  which  do  not  stir,  lest  they  should 
break.  Simmer  a  few  niinutes  to  cook  the  raw  egg ;  but, 
if  allowed  to  boil,  the  soup  will  darken. 

Crab  soup  may  be  made  in  tho  same  way,  excepting  the 
OKalline  process,  crabs  being  destitute  of  that  dainty. 

Green  Tuhtle  Soup. 
A  glass  of  Madeira. 

Eunch  of  sweet  herbs. 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 
6  qta.  of  water. 


.dhyGoogle 


FISH   80DPS.  49 

Chop  up  the  coarser  parts  of  the  turtle-meat,  with  the 
et  trails  and  bones.  Add  to  them  four  quai'ts  of  water,  and 
stew  four  hours  with  the  herbs,  onions,  pepper  and  salt 
Stew  veiy  slowly  b  t  do  not  let  it  ceise  to  boil  duim;;  thia 
time  At  the  end  of  foui  houis  atram  the  soup  anl  add 
tJie  finer  i  uta  of  the  t  irtle  and  the  g  e  n  fat  which  haa 
been  smmeied  fw  one  hour  m  tvo  juai-ts  of  watei 
Thi  ken  with  browned  flour  leturn  to  the  soui  pot  and 
simmer  gmtly  an  h  ur  loUoei  If  thei  ire  e  ^s  m  the 
turtle  boil  them  m  a,  separate  vessel  for  foui  houis  and 
throw  mto  the  soup  befoie  takmg  it  u[  If  not,  put  m 
force  meat  baUs  then  the  juice  of  Uie  lemon  d,nd  tl  e  wine , 
beat  up  once  anl  pour  out  bom  couks  all  the  finer 
meat  befoie  straming  boding  all  togptJ  cr  five  hours  then 
stram,  thicken,  and  put  m  the  gieeo  iat,  cut  into  lumps  an 
inch  long.  This  makes  a  handsomer  soup  than  if  the  meat 
is  left  in. 

For  the  mock  e^s,  take  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  one  raw  egg  well  beaten.  Eub  the  boiled  eggs  into  a 
paste  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  bind  with  the  raw  e^, 
roU  into  pellets  the  size  and  shape  of  turtle-eggs,  and  lay  in 
boihng  water   for   two   minutes   before   dropping   into   the 

Jihrce-meat  hails  f&r  tlt^  above. 
Six  tabiespoonfula  turtle-meat  chopped  very  fine.  Eub 
M  a  paste  with  the  yolks  of  two  haid-boOed  eggs;  table- 
Bpoonfiil  of  butter,  and,  if  convenient,  a  little  oyater.li<iuor. 
Season  with  cayenne,  maee,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  white 
sugar.  Bind  with  a  well-beaten  egg;  shape  into  balls; 
dip  in  e^,  then  powdered  cracker,  fry  in  butter,  and  di-op 
into  the  soup  when  it  is  served. 

Mock  turtle  for  soups  is  now  within  the  reach  of  every 
private  family,  being  well  preserved  in  air-tight  cans. 


.dhyGoogle 


OOUUOlf   SENBE. 


Boiled  Codfish.  (M-esL)  4" 
Lay  the  fish  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted,  for  half  ai 
hour  before  it  is  time  to  cook  it.  Wipe  it  di^  aod  put  it 
into  the  fish-ketile  with  water  enough  to  cover  it,  in  which 
lias  been  dissolved  a  little  salt.  Let  it  boil  quite  briskly. 
A  piece  of  cod  weighing  three  pounds  wiU  be  cooked  in  haif 
am  hour  from  the  time  the  water  fairly  boils,  if  put  in  without, 
a  cloth.  But  by  far  the  better  plan  is,  when  the  cod  has 
been  wiped  free  of  the  salt  and  water,  to  wrap  it  in  a  clean 
linen  cloth  kept  for  such  purposes.  The  cloth  should  be 
dredged  with  flour,  to  prevent  sticking.  Sew  up  the  edges  in 
such  a  manner  as  to  envelop  the  fish  entu-ely,  yet  have  but 
one  thickness  of  the  cloth  over  any  part.  The  wrapping 
should  be  fitted  neatly  to  the  shape  of  tlie  piece  to  be  cook- 
ed. Fish  cooked  thus  will  require  twice  aa  long  to  boQ  as 
when  put  into  the  water  without  such  protection ;  but  the 
flavor  is  better  preserved,  and  when  unwrapped,  it  will  not 
present  the  sodden  appearance  and  crumbling  grain  that 
disfigure  most  boiled  fish. 

Have  ready  a  sauce  prepared  thus : — 
To  one  gill  boUiug  water  add  as  much  milk,  ajid  when  it  ia 
acalding-hot,  stir  in  -leaving  the  saucfr-pan  on  the  fire— two 
taJolespoonfuIs  of  butter,  a  Uttle  at  a  time,  that  it  may  melt 
without  oiling,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  previously  wet  with 
cold  water,  and,  aa  this  thickens,  two  beaten  eggs.  Season 
with  salt  and  chopped  paxsley,  and  when,  after  one  good  boil, 
you  withdraw  it  from  the  fixe,  add  a  dozen  capers,  or  pickled 
nasturtium  seeds,  or,  if  you  prefer,  a  spoonful  of  vinegai  in 
which  celeiy-seeds  have  been  steeped.  Put  the  fish  into  a 
Lot  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it  Some  serve  in  a  but- 
ter-boat ;  but  I  fancy  that  the  boiling  sauce  applied  to  the 
steaming  fish  imparts  a  richness  it  cannot  gain  later.     Gai> 


.dhyGoogle 


nish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  circles  of  hard-boiled  e;i,^, 
laid  around  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

KOCKFISH. 

Ei)ckfish  and  river-bass  are  very  nice,  cooked  as  above 
but  do  not  need  to  be  boiled  so  long  as  codfish. 

Boiled  Codfish.     (Salt.) 

Put  the  fish  to  soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  watei--a» 
early  as  eight  o'clock  in  tlie  evening.  Change  this  for  more 
warm  water  at  bed-time  and  cover  closely.  Change  again 
in  the  morning  and  wash  off  the  salt.  Two  houi-s  before 
dinner  take  out  the  cod,  examine  to  see  that  no  crystals  of 
salt  adhere  to  tlie  under  part,  and  plunge  into  mr^  cold 
water.  This  makes  it  firm.  Finally,  set  over  the  fire  with 
enough  iukewarm  water  to  cover  it,  and  boil  for  half  an 
hour.  Drain  well ;  lay  it  in  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  it 
egg-sauce  prepared  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  only  substi. 
tuting  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  rubbed  to  a  paste 
with  butter,  for  the  beaten  raw  egg. 

This  is  a  useful  receipt  for  country  housekeepers  who 
can  seldom  procure  fresh  cod.  Salt  mackerel,  prepared  in 
the  same  way,  will  weil  repay  the  care  and  time  required^ 
so  superior  is  it  to  the  Friday's  dish  of  salt  fish,  as  usually 
served. 

Should  the  cold  fish  left  over  be  used  for  fish-balls— oa 
it  should  be— it  will  be  found  that  the  sauce  which  has 
eoaked  into  it  while  hot  has  greatly  improved  it. 

OoDPisH  Balls.  ^ 
Prepare  the  fish  precisely  as  for  boiling  whole.     Cut  in 
pieces  when  it  lias  been  duly  washed  and  soaked,  and  boil 
twenty  minutes.     Turn  off  the  water,  and  cover  with  fraib 


.dhyGoogle 


horn  the  boiling  tea-kettle.  Boil  twenty  minutes  more  j 
drain  the  fish,  very  dry,  Mid  spread  upon  a  dish  to  cooi, 
Wlien  perfectly  cold,  pick  to  pieces  with  a  fork,  removing 
every  vestigo  of  skin  and  bone,  and  shredding  Tery  fine. 
\Vhen  this  is  done,  add  an  equal  bulk  of  mashed  potato ; 
work  into  a  stiff  batter  by  adding  a  lump  of  butter  and 
Hweet  milk,  and  if  you  want  to  have  them  very  nice,  a  beat- 
en egg.  Flour  your  hands  and  make  the  mixture  into  balls 
or  cakes,  Di-op  them  into  boiling  lard  or  good  diippingi 
tu.d  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Plainer  fish-cakes  may  be  made 
of  the  cod  and  potatoes  alone,  moulded  round  like  biscuit. 
In  any  sliape  the  dish  is  popular. 

It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  recommend  the  desiccated 
cod-fish  put  up  in  boxes  by  the  Boston  and  Philadelphia 
Salt  Fish  Company.  The  fish  is  already  cooked  and  shred, 
and  tlie  housekeeper  is  tlius  saved  the  only  disagreeabla 
part  of  the  process  of  making  this  delightful  breakfast 
relish — the  boiling  and  the  unsavoiy  odor  arising  therefrom, 
as  well  as  the  care  of  soaking  and  picking  out  the  fish.  The 
balls  prepared  from  the  desiccated  fish  are  every  whit  equal 
in  flavor  to  those  made  of  the  home-cooked,  and  can  be 
ready  at  half-an-hour's  notice.  The  coat  is  not  more — per- 
haps less,  thoD  when  one  buys  the  cod  in  bulk,  bones  and 
all. 

Salt  Codfish  stewed  with  Egiis. 


Prepare  the  fish  as  for  balls.  Heat  almost  to  boiling 
a  pint  of  rich,  sweet  milk,  and  stir  into  it,  gradually  and 
carefully,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  a  tahlespoonful  of  butter, 
a  little  chopped  parsley  and  butter,  with  pepper,  lastly  the 
fish.  Boil  up  once  and  turn  into  a  deep  ccvered  dish,  oi 
chafing-dish  lined  with  buttered  toast.  Eat  hot  for  bi'enk- 
(ast  or  supper. 


.dhyGoogle 


ss 


Codfish  and  Potato  Stew,  iji 
Soak,  boil,  and  pick  the  fish,  if  salt,  as  for  fish-balls.  If 
^ttsh,  boil  and  pick  into  bits.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of 
mashed  potatoes,  a  largo  tablespoonfii!  of  butter  and  milkj 
enough  to  make  it  very  soft.  Put  into  a  skillet,  and  add  a 
very  little  boiling  water  to  keep  it  from  burning.  Turn 
and  toss  constantly  until  it  is  smuking  hot  but  not  dry ;  add 
I^epper  and  parsley,  and  dish. 

Boiled  Mackerel.  (Freak)  •!■ 
Clean  tlie  mackerel  and  wipe  carefully  with  a  dry,  clean 
cloth;  wash  tliera  lightly  with  another  cloth  dipped  in  • 
■vinegar;  wrap  each  in  a  coarse  linen  cloth  (floured)  basted 
closely  to  the  shape  of  tlie  fish.  Put  them  into  a  pot  with 
enough  salted  water  to  cover  tliem,  and  boil  them  gftntly  for 
half  an  hour.  Drain  them  well.  Take  a  teacupful  of  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  and  put  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  walnut  catsup,  some  anchovy  paste 
or  sauce,  and  the  juice  of  haJf  a  lemon.  Let  this  boil  up 
well  and  add  a  himp  of  butter  the  size  of  an  e^,  with  a 
tablespoonful  browned  Hour  wet  in  cold  water.  Boil  up 
again  and  serve  in  the  sauce-boat.  This  maiea  a  brown 
sauce,"  You  can  substitute  egg-sauce  if  you  like.  Garnish 
with  parsley  and  nasturtium  blossoms. 

EROiiiED  Mackekel.  (Fresh.) 

Clean  the  mackerel,  wash,  and  wipe  dry.  Split  it  open, 
BO  that  when  laid  flat  the  backbone  will  be  in  the  middle. 
Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt,  and  lay  on  a  buttered  gridiron 
over  a  clear  fire,  with  the  inside  downward,  until  it  begins 
to  brown ;  then  turn  the  other.  When  quite  done,  lay  on 
H  hot  dish  and  butt<^r  it  plentifully.     Turn  another  hot  dish 


.dhyGoogle 


54  OOStMON   8BN8B. 

over  the  lower  one,  and  let  it  stand  two  or  three 
lefore  sending  to  table. 


Broiled  IIackeeel.  {ScdL) 
Soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  water.     Change  this  earh 
in  the  morning  for  very  cold,  and  let  the  fiah  lie  in  this  un 
til  time  to  rook.     Then  proceed  as  with  the  fresh  mackerel. 

Boiled  Halibut.  ^ 

Lay  in  cold  salt  and  water  for  an  hour.  Wipe  dry  and 
score  the  skin  in  squares.  Put  into  the  kettle  with  cold 
Baited  water  enough  to  cover  it.  It  is  so  firm  in  texture 
that  you  can  boil  without  a  cloth  if  you  choose.  Let  it  heat 
gradually,  and  boil  from  half  to  three-quai-ters  of  an  hour, 
in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  piece.  Four  or  five  pounds 
will  be  enough  for  most  private  families.  Drain  and  ac- 
company by  egg-sauce — either  poured  over  the  fish,  or  in  a 
sauce-boat. 

Save  the  cold  remnants  of  the  fish  and  what  sauce  is  loft 
until  next  morning.  Pick  out  as  you  would  cod,  mix  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  mashed  potato,  moisten  with  the  sauce, 
or  with  milk  and  butter  if  you  have  no  sauce,  put  into  a 
skillet,  and  stir  until  it  is  very  hot.  Do  not  let  it  bum. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Baked  Halibut.  »J« 
Take  a  piece  of  halibut  weighing  five  or  six  poucds, 
and  lay  in  salt  and  water  for  two  hours.  Wipe  dry  and 
•core  the  outer  skin.  Set  in  the  baking-pan  in  a  tolerably 
hot  oven,  and  bake  aji  hour,  basting  often  with  butter  and 
water  heated  together  in  a  saucepan  or  tin  cup.  When  a 
fork  will  ])e!ietrate  it  easily  it  is  done.  It  should  be  of  a  fine 
brown.     Take  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan — add  a  liltle 


.dhyGoogle 


boiling  water  should  there  not  be  enough — stir  in  a  l»hle- 
epoonful  of  walnut  catsup,  a  tcaspoonful  of  Worceatersliiw 
sauce,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  thicken  with  bi'owned  floui 
previously  wet  with  cold  water.  Boil  up  once  and  put  int*. 
sauce-boat. 

There  is  no  finer  preparation,  of  halibut  than  this,  which 
is,  however,  comparatively  littJe  known.  Those  who  have" 
eaten  it  usually  prefer  it  to  boiled  and  broOed.  You  can 
use  what  is  left  for  the  same  pui-j)ose  as  the  fragments  of 
boiled  halibut. 

Halibut  Steak.  •{• 

Wash  and  wipe  the  steaks  dry.  Boat  up  two  or  three 
^gB,  and  roll  out  some  Boston  or  other  brittle  crackei-s 
upon  the  kneading-hoard  uutd  they  are  fine  as  dust.  Dip 
each  steak  into  the  beaten  egg,  then  into  the  bread  crumbs 
(wlion  you  have  salted  the  fish),  and  fry  in  hot  fat,  lard,  or 
nice  dri])ping. 

Or,  you  can  broil  the  steak  upon  a  buttered  gridiron, 
over  a  clear  fire,  first  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  When 
done,  lay  in  a  hot  dish,  butter  well,  and  cover  closely. 

Devilled  Halibut. 
Mincft  a  pound  of  cold  boiled  or  baked  halibut,  or  tha 
fragraenta  of  haHfaut  steak,  and  mix  with  it  the  follow- 
ing dressing :  The  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed 
emooth  witli  the  back  of  a  silver  spoon,  or  in  a  Wedgewood 
moi-tar,  and  when  there  i-emain  no  lumps  in  it,  work  into 
»  soft  paste  with  a  tablespoonful  salad  oil.  Next  beat  in 
two  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  mj,de  mustard, 
I  pinch  of  cayenne,  teaspoonful  salt,  one  of  Worcestershire 
eauce,  a  httle  anchovy  paste  if  you  have  it,  and  finally^ 
a  little  at  a  time  to  prevent  lumping,  a  small  teacupfnl  of 
rinegar  in  which  celery-seed  liave  been  steeped.     It  is  eaaj 


.dhyGoogle 


56  COMMOH    BENBi:. 

to  keep  a  bottle  of  this  on  hand  for  salads  and  sauces.  Sth 
all  thoroughly  into  the  minced  fish,  gai-nish  Tvith  a  chaiB 
of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  cut  into  rings,  -with  a  small  lound 
slice  of  pickled  beet  laid  within  each  liok,  and  you  have  a 
2nqua.nt  and  pretty  salad  for  the  supper-tahle. 

E011.ED  Salmon.  (i^esA.)  ■{« 
"Wrap  the  fish,  when  you  have  washed  and  wiped  it, 
in  a  clean  linen  cloth — not  too  thick — baste  it  up  securely, 
and  put  into  the  fish-kettle.  Cover  with  cold  water  in 
which  has  been  melted  a  handful  of  salt.  Boil  slowly,  al- 
lowing about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  each  pound.  When 
the  time  is  up,  rip  open  a  corner  of  the  cloth  and  test  thr 
salmon  with  a  fork.  If  it  penetrate  easily,  it  is  done.  If 
not,  hastily  pin  up  the  cloth  and  cook  a  little  longer.  Skim 
off  the  scum  as  it  rises  to  the  top.  Have  ready  in  another 
sauce-pan  a  pint  of  cream — or  half  milk  and  half  cream  will 
do — winch  has  been  heated  in  a  vessel  set  in  boiling  water; 
stir  into  this  a  large  spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and 
chopped  parsley,  and  a  lialf-gUl  of  the  water  in  which  the 
fish  is  boiled.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  stirring  all  the  while — 
or,  what  ia  better,  do  not  remove  from  the  inner  ve^iel. 
When  the  fish  ia  done,  take  it  instantly  fi-om  the  kettle, 
lay  it  an  instant  upon  a  folded  cloth  to  absorb  the  drop- 
pings ;  transfer  with  great  care,  for  fear  of  breaking,  to  a 
liot  dish,  and  pour  the  boUed  cream  over  it,  reserving 
enough  to  fill  a  small  sauce-boat.  Garnish  with  curled 
pai-sley  and  circular  slices  of  liard-hoUed  yolks— leaving  out 
the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

After  serving  boiled  salmon  with  cream-sauce,  you  will 
never  he  quite  content  with  any  other.  If  you  cannot  get 
cream,  boil  a  pint  of  milk  and  thicken  with  arrow-root.  It 
is  not  so  nice,  but  many  will  not  detect  the  difference— rc-ti/ 
cream  being  a  rare  commodity  in  town. 


.dhyGoogle 


Fise.  57 

You  may  pickle  wLat  is  left,  if  it  is  In  one  piece.  Or, 
I'tevil  it,  as  I  have  directed  you  to  treat  cold  halibut.  Or 
inince,  mis  with  mashed  potato,  milt,  and  butter,  and  stii 
into  a  sort  of  stew.  Or,  once  again,  mix  with  masked  po- 
tato,  milt,  butter,  and  a.  raw  ^g  well-beaten;  make  into 
cakef  or  balls,  and  fry  in  liot  lard  or  dripping.  At  any 
rate,  let  none  of  it  be  lost,  it  being  at  once  one  of  our  moa* 
expensive  and  most  delicious  fish. 

Baked  Salmon,  •J* 
Wash  and  wipe  dry,  and  rub  with  pefjer  and  salt 
Some  add  a  soupgon  of  cayenne  and  powdeied  mwie  Lay 
the  fish  upon  a  grating  set  over  your  baking  pan,  and  lO-mt 
or  bake,  hasting  it  freely  with  butter,  and,  toward  the  \3.%t, 
with  its  own  drippings  only.  Should  it  brown  tio  fist, 
cover  the  top  with  a  sheet  of  white  paper  until  the  whole 
ia  cooked.  When  it  is  done,  transfer  to  a  he  t  diah  and 
cover  closely,  and  add  to  the  gravy  a  little  hot  water  thick 
ened  with  arrow-root,  rice,  or  wheat  fiour, — wet,  of  iiourse, 
first  with  cold  water, — a  great  spoonful  of  Ugh  t  tomato  sauce, 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Boil  up  and  serve  m  a  sauce- 
boat,  or  you  can  serve  with  ci-eam  sauce,  made  as  for  boiled 
salmon.  Garnish  handsomely  with  alternate  sprigs  of  pars- 
ley  and  the  bleached  tops  of  celery,  with  ruby  bits  of  firm 
curi-ant  jelly  here  and  there.  This  is  a  fine  dish  for  a  din- 
ner-party,    A   glass   of  sherry  improves   the   first-named 

Saimon  Steaks.  ■$• 
Dry  well  with  a  cloth,  dredge  with  flour,  and  lay  them 
upon  a  well-buttered  gridiron,  over  clear  hot  coals.  Turn 
with  a  hroad-bladed  knife  sHpped  beneath,  and  a  flat  wira 
e^-beater  above,  lest  the  steak  should  break.  When  don« 
to  a  light  brown,  lay  in  a  hot  dish,  butter  each  steak,  sea 
Boning  with  salt  and  |)epper,  cover  closely,  and  serve. 


.dhy'Google 


58  COMMON    BEH8B. 

Pickled  Salmon.    {Fresh.)  •}• 
Having  cleaned  your  fist,  cut  into  j'i^ces  of  a  con- 
■  venient  ske  to  go  into  the  fish-kettle    and  boil  iu  salted 
water  as  f      tl      t.  bl        Dra        t        ydy-wj      t      (h 
cleaJi    1  th        1     t  t       1    tmt  1        t  n 

BIkpkl  j,htoco        t       thfUwi      pp 

tions     Sq-tvmgu-         i  bllesfm         d 

white  Plirsd  1  t        tej        flamdnj 

tard,  th  ee  t  bl    poo  fi  1    wh  t         -n,  \      j  mt    f  tL 

■water  mwhhthfih  bid      Ltthm  boil    ]        « 

liard,  th  t  y       my    kim  tl      p   kl        Sh     Id  th      p 
come     w  r  with  th  m  in  1  j       1 1        i    k  tl   m 

out  aj  I       t  rn  t     th     k  ttl         &  t  tl      1  ]  j  m    d 

earthe  wre)  11  dtkjintiifl 

Next   m  ligt  bkhmblltl 

kettle  (  d)        1  h    t  t     b    lin        Mea      h  1     i     p 

the  aalm      by      ttmg  int     ^  aji       h       J     li  If  1  n^, 

and  half  an  moh  wide.  Cut  cleanly  and  leguiaily  with  a 
sharp  knife,  "When  they  are  all  ready,  and  the  liquor  is  on 
the  boil,  drop  theni  carefully  into  the  kettle.  Let  the 
pickle  boil  up  once  to  make  sure  the  salmon  is  heated 
through.  Have  ready  some  air-tight  glass  jars,  such  as 
you  use  for  canning  fruit  and  tomatoes.  Take  the  salmon 
from  the  kettle,  while  it  is  still  on  the  stove  or  rai^e,  with 
a  wire  egg-heater,  taking  care  you  do  not  break  the  pieces. 
Drop  them  rapidly  into  the  jar,  packing  closely  as  you  go 
on  ;  fill  with  the  boiling  pickle  until  it  overflows,  screw  on 
the  top,  and  set  away  in  a  dark,  cool  place.  Proceed  in 
the  same  way  with  each  can  until  all  are  fuU.  Salmon 
thus  put  np  will  keep  good  for  ymr8,  as  I  can  testify  from 
experifinee,  and  will  well  repay  tlie  trouble  of  prepai-ation. 
You  can  vary  the  seasoning  to  your  taste,  adding  a  sJialJol 
or  two  minced  very  fine,  some  celery  and  small  pods  of 
cayenne  pepper,  which  always  looh  well  in  vinegar. 


.dhyGoogle 


FI8H.  59 

Be  sure  tliart  tlie  cynteiits  of  the  kettle  are  boiling  ■wlier 
transferred  to  the  cans,  that  they  are  not  allowed  time  to 
cool  in  the  transit,  that  the  elastiu  on  the  can  is  properly 
adjusted,  and  the  top  screwed  down  tightly,  ami  success  is 
certain.  I  would  call  the  attention  of  those  who  are  fond 
of  tlie  potted  spiced  salmon,  sold  at  a  high  price  in  gro 
cery-storcs,  to  this  receipt  for  making  the  same  luxury  at 
home.     It  costs  less  by  one-half,  is  as  good,  and  is  always 

Pickled  Sauhon.  (Salt.) 

At  certain  seasons  of  the  year  fresh  salmon  cannot  ba 
procured,  even  by  the  dwellers  in  cities,  while  those  who  live 
in  the  country  sometimes  do  not  see  it  from  one  yeai''s  end 
to  the  other.  But  dried  salmon  can  always  be  had  in  any 
tolerably  well-kept  grocery,  and  a  very  nice  relish  prepared 
from  it.  ^ 

Wash  the  salmon  in  two  or  three  waters,  nibbing  it 
lightly  with  a  coarse  cloth  to  remove  the  salt-ciystals.  Then 
spak  over  night  in  tepid  water.  Exchange  tliis  in  the  morn- 
ing for  ice-cold,  and  let  the  fish  lie  in  the  latter  for  three 
hours.  Take  it  out,  wipe  dry,  and  cut  in  strips  as  directed 
in  the  foregoing  receipt.  Drop  these,  when  all  are  ready, 
in.  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  placed  alongside  of  a  kettle 
of  pickle  prepared  as  for  fresh  salmon.  Beside  these  have 
your  air-tight  jars,  covers  laid  in  readiness,  and  when  tlie 
salmon  has  boiled  five  minutes— fairly  boiled,  not  simmered 
— fish  out  the  pieces  with  your  wire  spoon,  pack  rapidly 
into  your  can;  fill  up  with  the  boiling  pickle  from  the 
other  kettle,  and  seal  instantly.  In  two  days  the  pickled 
salmon  will  be  fit  for  use,  and  is  scarcely  distinguishable 
from  that  made  of  fresh  fish.  It  has  the  advantage  of 
bemg  always  procurable,  and  of  compai'ative  cheapness,  and 
in  the  country  is  a  valuable  stand-by  in  case  of  uiifxpected 
supper  company. 


.dhyGoogle 


OU  C»MMON   SENSE. 

Smoked  Salmon.    {Broiled.') 

Take  a  piece  of  raw  smoked  salmon  tlie  •w.g  af  jou 
hajjd,  or  larger  in  proportion  to  the  numbet  ivho  are  to  sit 
down  to  supper.  Wash  it  in  two  w-iteis,  lubbing  off  thfl 
salt.  Lay  in  a  skillet  with  enough  warm — not  hot — wate» 
to  cover  it ;  let  it  simmer  fifteen  mm.iite'*,  and  boil  fivei> 
Eemove  it,  wipe  dry,  and  lay  on  a  butteied  gridiron  to  broih 
When  it  is  nicely  browned  on  both  Sides,  transfer  to  a  hot 
dish  ;  butter  libei-ally,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Gai-nish  with 
hillocks  of  grated  horse-radish  interspersed  with  sprays  of 
fresh  or  pickled  fennel-seed,  or  with  parsley. 

Eaw  smoked  salmon  is  in  common  use  upon  the  supper- 
table,  cut  into  smooth  strips  as  long  as  the  middle  finger, 
and  rather  wider;  arranged  neatly  upon  a  garnished  disli, 
and  eaten  with  pepper-sauce  or  some  other  pungent  condi- 

BoiLED  Shad.    (M-esh.)  •{■ 

Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  the  fish.  A  roe  shad  is  best  for 
this  purpose.  Cleanse  the  roes  thoroughly,  and  having 
sprinkled  both  shad  and  eggs  with  salt,  wrap  in  sepai'ato 
cloths  and  put  into  the  fish-kettle,  side  by  side.  Cover  with 
salted  water,  and  boil  from  half  an  hour  to  three-quarters, 
in  proportion  to  the  size.  Experience  is  the  best  rule  as  to 
the  time.  When  you  liave  once  cooked  fish  to  a  turn,  note 
tho  weight  and  time,  and  you  will  be  at  no  loss  thereafter. 
A  good  rule  is  to  make  a  pencilled  memorandum  in  tlie 
margin  of  the  receipt-hook  opposite  certain  receipts. 

Serve  the  shad  upon  a  hot  dish,  with  a  boat  of  drawn 
butter  mingled  with  chopped  egg  and  parsley,  or  egg-siiuco. 
Lay  the  roes  about  the  body  of  the  fisii.  tJarnish  n  itb 
tapers  and  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 


.dhyGoogle 


FISH.  g] 

Boiled  Shad.  (Salt.) 

In  those  States  where  shad  are  plenty  they  are  saJtod, 
and  nsed  freely,  as  are  salt  mackerel  elsewhere.  They  form 
n  dt'lightful  breakfastdish,  and  are  welcome  on  the  supper 
table  on  winter  nights. 

Soak  the  fish  six  or  seven  hours  in  warm  water 
changing  it  several  thnes ;  wipe  off  all  the  salt  and  immei'Sfl 
in  ice-cold  water.  When  it  has  Iain  in  this  an  hour,  put 
into  a  fish-kettle  with  enough  fresh  water  to  eover  it  and 
boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  in  proportion  to  tlie 
Bize,  Serve  in  a  hot'  dish,  witJi  a  large  lump  of  butter 
Bpi-ead  over  the  fish. 

BuoiLED  Shad.  {M-aah.)  >{• 

Wash,  wipe,  and  split  the  fish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  lay  it  upon  a  buttered  gridiron,  inside  down- 
ward. When  the  lower  side  is  browned,  turn  the  fish. 
One  of  medium  size  will  be  done  in  about  tweuty  minutes. 
Serve  upon  a  hot  dish,  and  lay  a  good  piece  of  butter  upon 
the  fish. 

BiioiLED  Shad.  (Sail.) 

Soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  water.  Take  out  in  tlia 
morning  and  transfer  to  ice-cold  for  half  an  hour.  Wipe 
very  diy,  and  broil  as  you  do  fresh  shad. 

Fried  Shad. 
This  is  a  populir  dish  upon  Southern  tables,  and  is  good 
mywhere.  Clew,  wash,  and  wipe  a  fine  roe-shad  ;  split  and 
cut  each  side  mto  four  pieces,  leaving  out  the  head,  and  re- 
mo  ring  fins  and  tail  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
dredge  with  floui  Ha^e  ready  \  frying-pan  of  boiling  hot 
lard  or  drippmgs ;  put  m  the  fish  and  fry  brown,  turning  at 
the  end  of  five  minutes  to  cook  the  other  side.     Fry  tha 


.dhyGoogle 


62  COMMON    BENSE. 

roo  in  the  same  way ;  lay  the  fish  iu  the  middle  of  the  dish, 
and  the  roe  outside  of  it;  garnish  with  water-ciesses  and 
sprigs  of  pickled  cauliflower,  and  eat  with  catsup. 

Baked  Suad.  ^ 
Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  the  fish,  which  should  be  a  larg 
one.  Make  a  stuffing  of  grat«d  bread-crumbs  steeped  in 
eweet  milk,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  sweet  herbs,  moistened 
with  a  beaten  egg.  Stuff  the  shad  and  sew  it  up.  Lay  it 
in  the  baking-pan,  with  a  cupful  of  water  to  keep  it  from 
burning,  and  bake  an  hour,  basting  with  butter  and  water, 
until  it  ia  tender  throughout  and  well  browned.  Take  it 
up,  put  in  a  hot  dish  and  cover  tightly,  while  you  boil  up 
the  gravy  with  a  great  spoonful  of  catsup,  a  tablespoonful 
of  browned  flour  which  has  been  wet  with  cold  water,  tlie 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and,  if  you  want  to  have  it  very  fine,  a  glasa 
of  sherry  or  Madeira.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and 
water-cresses.  You  may  pour  the  gravy  around  the  fish,  or 
serve  in  a  sauce-boat.  Of  course  you  take  out  the  thread 
with  which  it  has  been  sewed  up  before  serving  the  fisli. 

Boiled  Sea-Bass. 

Clean  and  put  the  flsh  into  the  fish-kettlo,  with  salted 
water  enough  to  cover  it  when  you  have  enveloped  it  in 
tlie  fish-cloth.  A  medium-sized  fish  wiU  be  done  in  a.  Kttfe 
over  half  au  hour.  But  do  not  boil  too  fast.  When  done, 
drain  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish.  Lay  sliced  boiled  eggs  upon 
and  about  it,  and  serve  with  e^-sauce,  mingled  with,  capers 
or  nasturtium  seed. 

Feied  Sea-Bass. 

Use  smaller  fish  for  this  purpose  than  for  boiliiij;. 
Clean,  wipe  dry,  inside  and  out,  dredge  with  flour  and 
season  with  salt.     Fry  m  hot  butt^'r  or  diipping.     A  mis 


.dhyGoogle 


FISH.  63 

turo,  Jialf  butter,  half  lard,  is  good  for  frying  fish.  'J^he  bae. 
Buoiild  be  done  to  a  deHcate  brown— not  to  a  crisp.  Tin 
fasiiion  affected  by  some  cooks  of  drying  Med  fisb  to  a  crjsl 
is  simply  ttboroinable. 

Fried  bass  are  a  most  acceptable  breakfast  dish. 

Sturgeon  Steak. 
Skin  the  steaks  carefuUy  and  lay  in  salted  -n^ter  (cold) 
for  aa  hour,  to  remove  the  oily  taste,  so  offensive  to  most 
palates.  Then  wipe  each  steak  di-y,  salt,  and  broil  over  hot 
coals  on  a  buttered  gridiron.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish  when 
you  have  buttered  and  peppered  tliem,  and  send  up  gar- 
nished  with  parsley  and  accompanied  by  a  small  glass  disU 
containing  sliced  lemon. 

Or, 
You  cm  pour  over  them  a  sauce  prepared  in  this  way:— 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan,  and  stir 
imta  it  ia  brown— jjo;  burned.  Add  a  half-teacupful  of 
boiling  water  in  which  has  been  stirred  a  tablespoonful  of 
browned  flour  previously  wet  with  cold  water.  Add  salt, 
a  teaspoonful  Worcestershire  sauce  or  anchovy,  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  and  let  it  boil  up  well.  Pour  over  the  steaks  when 
you  liave  arranged  them  in  the  dish. 

Baked  Stukgeon. 
A  piece  of  sturgeon  weighing  five  or  six  pounds  ia 
enough  for  a  handsome  dish.  Skin  it  and  let  it  stand  in 
salt  and  water  for  half  an  hour.  Parboil  it  to  remove  the 
oil.  Make  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  minute  bits  of  fat 
salt  pork,  sweet  herbs,  and  butter.  Gash  the  upper  part  of 
the  fish  quite  deeply,  and  mb  this  forco-meat  -well  in;  put 
in  a  baking-pan  witb  a  little  water  to  keep  it  from  buraing, 
and  bake  for  an  hour. 


.dhyGoogle 


64  coMiroN  SBTJeB. 

Serve  with  a  sauce  of  drawn  butter,  in  which  has  beei 
Btirred  a  spoonful  of  caper  sauce  and  another  of  catsup. 
TiuB  is  a  Vij^inia  receipt,  and  an  admirable  one. 

Mayonnaise,  (i^s/s.) 
Take  a  pound  or  so  of  cold  boiled  fish  (halibut,  rock,  oi 
cod),  cut — ^not  chop — into  pieces  an  inch  in  length.  Mix  in 
a  bowl  a  dressing  as  follows :  the  yolks  of  four  boiled  e^a 
rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  salad  oil ;  add  to  these  salt, 
pepper,  mustard,  two  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  and,  lastly, 
six  tablespoonfuk  of  vinegar.  Beat  the  mtxtiu-e  until 
light,  and  just  before  pouring  it  over  the  fish,  stir  inlightly 
the  frothed  white  of  a  raw  egg.  Serve  the  fish  in  a  glass 
dish,  with  six  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  half  the  di-ess- 
ing  stirred  in  with  it.  Spread  the  remainder  over  the  top, 
and  lay  blanched  lettuce-leaves  around  the  edges,  to  be  eaten 

B  KED  Salmon  Thout   •{« 

Those  who  h\  p  eaten  this  j  nnee  of  "  n  e  h  1  in  tl  e 
Adirondacks,  within  an  hour  ■iftet  he  has  left  the  lake  will 
ftTee  with  me  t!  at  he  ne  e  has  ■5  ch  lust  ce  done  hnn  at 
any  other  time  as  when  bike  J  w  th  c  eim 

Handle  tlie  lea  ty  with  ^e  tie  resp  t  wl  le  clein  ng 
washing,  and  w  j  ^  h  m  an  I  lay  him  <it  full  leiigtl  still 
respectfully,  in  a  1  akmt,  j  an  w  th  lust  eno  gh  water  to 
keep  him  from  scorcl  ^  If  la  ge  s  ore  the  bick  bone 
with  a  sharp  knife  tak  g  care  not  t  ntar  the  com  hne-is 
of  his  red-spotte  1  s  les  Poke  lo  vly  basting  often  w  th 
butter  and  water.  By  the  time  he  is  done — and  he  should 
be  so  well-looked  after  that  his  royal  robe  hardly  shows  a 
Beam  or  rent,  and  the  red  spots  are  still  distinctly  visible-— 
have  ready  in  a  saucepan  a  cup  of  cream — diluted  with  ■ 
few   spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  lest  it  should  clot  in  heating— 


.dhyGoogle 


in  wliicli  has  been  stirred  cautiously  two  tablespoonfiils  of 
melted  butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Heat  this  m  a 
vessel  set  within  another  of  boiling  water,  add  the  giavj 
fi-om  the  dripping-pan,  boil  up  once  to  thicken,  and  «hen! 
the  trout  is  laid— always  respectfully — in  a  hot  dish,  pour 
tlie  sauce  aroimd  him  as  he  Ues  in  state.  He  will  take  kind- 
ly  to  the  creamy  bath,  and  your  guests  will  take  kindly  ta 
him.  Garnish  with  a  wreath  of  crimson  nasturtium-blooma 
and  dainty  sprigs  of  parsley,  arranged  by  your  own  hands 
on  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  let  no  sharply-spiced  sauces 
come  near  him.  They  would  but  mar  his  native  richness— 
the  flavor  he  brought  with  him  from  the  lake  and  wild-wood. 
Salt  him  lightly,  sJiould  he  need  it,  eat  and  be  happy. 

If  the  above  savor  of  bathos  rather  than  "  common 
sense,"  my  excuse  is,  I  have  hitcly  eaten  baked  salmon- 
tiout  with  cream-gravy. 

Boiled  Salmon-Trout,  t^ 
Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  trout;  envelop  in  a  thin  cloth 
fitted  neatly  to  the  shape  of  the  fish,  lay  within  a  fish-kettle, 
cover  with  salted  water  (cold),  and  boil  gently  half  an  hour 
or  longer,  according  to  the  size.  When  done,  unwrap  and 
lay  in  a  hot  dish.  Pour  around  it  cream-sauce  made  as  for 
baked  salmon-trout — only,  of  course,  with  the  fmisaion  of 
the  fish-gravy — and  serve. 

Fried  Tbout. 

Brook  trout  are  generally  cooked  in  tids  way,  and  form 
»  rarely  delightful  breakfast  or  supper  dish. 

Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  fish,  roll  lightly  in  flour,  and 
Gy  in  butter  or  clarified  dripping,  or  butter  and  lard.  Let 
ihe  fai  be  hot,  fry  quickly  to  a  delicate  brown,  and  take  up 
the  instant  they  arc  done,      ^^y  for  an  instant  upon  a  hoi 


.dhyGoogle 


fuliilcd  iispkin,  to  absorb  whatever  grease  may  cling  to  tlieii 
(ijiecklod  sides;  tbea  range  side  by  side  in  a  heated  dish, 
ganiishj  and  send  to  table.  Use  no  Beaaoniiig  except  salt, 
aud  that  only  when  tlie  fish  ai'e  fried  in  lard  or  vmsalted 
dripping. 

Fried  Pickerel.  ^ 

The  pickerel  ranks  next  to  tront  among  game-fish,  and 
should  be  fried  in  the  same  manner.  Especially — and  I 
urge  tliis  with  groaning  of  spirit,  in  remembrance  of  tha 
many  times  in  which  I  have  bad  my  sense  of  fitness,  not  to 
say  my  appetite,  outraged  by  seeing  the  gallant  fish  brought 
to  table  dried  to  a  crisp  throughout,  all  his  juices  wasted 
and  sweetness  utterly  departed — especially,  do  not  icy  him 
slowly  and  too  long;  and  when  he  is  done,  take  him  out  of 
the  grease  I 

Cream  Pickeeel.  •{• 

E«sorve  your  largest  pickerel — those  over  three  pounds  ic 
weight — for  baking,  and  proceed  with  them  as  with  baked 
salmon-trout — cream-gravy  and  all.  If  you  cannot  afford 
cream,  substitute  rich  milk,  and  thicken  with  rice  or  wheat 
flour.     The  fish  are  better  cooked  in  this  way  than  any 

Fried  Pebch,  and  other  Patfish, 
Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  fish.  !Lay  them  in  a  large 
flat  dish,  salt,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Have  ready  a  frying- 
pan  of  hot  di-ipping,  lard,  or  butter ;  put  in  as  many  fish  aa 
tho  pan  will  hold  without  crowding,  and  fry  to  a  light 
brown.     Send  up  hot  in  a  chafing-dish. 

The  many  varieties  of  pan-fish — porgies,  flounders,  river- 
bass,  weak-fish,  white-fish,  etc.,  may  be  cooked  in  like  man- 
ner.    In  serving,  lay  the  head  of  each  fish  to  tite  ta/S  of  fht 


.dhyGoogle 


FISH.  67 

Stewed  Cat-fish.  •{• 
Skin,  cleam,  and  cut  off  the  horribly  homely  lieadi 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  to  remove  any  muddy  taste  they  may 
have  contracted  from  t\e  flats  or  holes  in  wliich  they  liav« 
fed,  and  let  them  Ke  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour  or  so. 
Thofl  put  them  into  a  sancepim,  cover  -with  cold  water,  and 
Btew  very  gently  for  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
ftccordiug  to  their  size.  Add  a  ciopped  ahaliot  or  button- 
onion,  a  bunch  of  chopped  parsley,  a  little  pepper,  a  lai^a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  flour  mixed  to  a 
paste  with  cold  water ;  boil  up  once,  take  out  the  flsh  care- 
fully, and  lay  in  a  deep  dish.  Boil  up  the  gravy  once 
more,  and  pour  over  the  fish.     Send  to  table  in  a  covered 

Fried  CAT-nsH.  •}• 

Skin,  clean,  and  remove  the  heads.  Sprinkle  witli  salt, 
and  lay  aaide  for  an  hour  or  more.  Have  ready  two  or 
tliree  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  and,  in  a  flat  dish,  a  quantity 
of  powdered  cracker.  Dip  the  flsh  first  in  the  egg,  then  in 
the  cracker,  and  fry  quickly  in  hot  lard  or  dripping.  Taka 
up  as  soon  as  done. 

Cat-fish  cooked  in  this  manner  are  sweet  and  savory — 
a  trifle  too  rich  for  delicate  persons,  but  very  nice  for  those 
who  are  blessed  with  good  digestions. 

Cat-fish  Chowder. 
Skin,  clean,  and  cut  off  the  heads.  Cut  the  fish  into 
pieces  t-ro  inches  long,  and  put  into  a  pot  with  some  fat 
perk  uut  into  shreds — a  pound  to  a  dozen  medium-sized 
fish,  two  chopped  onions,  or  half  a  /iozen  shallots,  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  and  pepper.  The  pork  wiO  salt  it  suffi- 
ciently. Stew  slowly  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Then 
stir  in  a  cup  of  milk,  thickened  witli  a  tablespoonful  of 


.dhy.Google 


68  COMMON    SENSE. 

fionr ;  take  up  a  eupM  of  the  Lot  liquor,  and  stir,  a  little  eiI 
a,  time,  into  two  well-beaten  eggs,  Eeturn  this  to  the  pot ; 
tlirow  in  half  a  dozen  Boston  or  butter  crackers,  split  in 
half;  let  all  boil  up  once,  and  turn  into  a  tureen,  Paul 
sliced  lemon,  or  cucumber  pickles,  also  sliced,  with  it.  Take 
oat  the  backbones  of  the  fish  before  serving. 

Stewed  Eels.  •{• 
Inquire,  before  buying,  where  they  were  caught,  and 
give  so  decided  a  preference  to  country  eels  as  to  refuse 
those  fattened  upon  the  offal  of  city  wharves.  Nor  are  the 
lai^est  eels  the  best  for  eating.  One  weighing  a  pound  is 
better  for  your  purpose  than  a  bulky  fellow  that  weighs 

Skin  and  clean,  carefully  extracting  all  the  fat  from  the 
inside.  Cut  into  lengths  of  an  inch  and  a  half;  put  into  a 
saucepan,  with  enoiigh  cold  water  to  cover  them ;  throw  in 
a  little  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  and  stew  slowly,  closely  cov- 
ered, for  at  least  one  hour.  Add,  at  the  last,  a  great  spoon- 
ful of  butter,  and  a  little  flour  wet  with  cold  water,  also  pep 
per.  Serve  in  a  deep  dish.  The  appearance  and  odor  of 
this  stew  are  so  pleasing  as  often  to  overcome  the  preju 
dices  of  those  who  "  Wouldn't  touch  an  eel  for  the  world  t 
TJiey  look  so  like  snakes  !  "  And  those  who  have  tasted 
once  rarely  enter  a  second  demuri'cr. 

Fried  Eels. 
Prepare  as  for  stewing ;  roll  in  flour,  and  fry,  in  hot 
lard  or  dripping,  to  a  liglit  brown. 

CnoWDER  (iFo.  I),  -it 
Take  ft  pound  of  salt  pork,  cut  into  strips,  and  soak  in 
h  jt  water  five  miniites.     Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pot  with  » 


.dhyGoogle 


FISH.  69 

layer  of  this.  Cut  four  pounds  of  cod  or  sea-bass  into 
pieces  two  inchisB  square,  and  lay  enough  of  these  oa  thp 
pot'k  to  cover  it.  Follow  with  a  layer  of  chopped  oaious, 
a  little  parsley,  summer  savory,  and  pepper,  either  black  oi 
cayenne,  Then  a  layer  of  split  Boston,  or  butter,  or  wholfl 
cream  crackers,  ■which  have  been  soaked  in  warm  water  un- 
til moist  through,  but  not  ready  to  break.  Above  this  lay 
a  stratum  of  pork,  and  repeat  the  order  given  above — ouious, 
seasoning  (not  too  much),  crackers,  and  pork,  until  your 
materials  are  exhausted.  Let  the  topmost  layer  be  buttered 
crackers,  well  soaked.  Pour  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
all  barely.  Cover  the  pot,  stew  gently  for  an  hour,  watch- 
ing that  the  water  does  not  sink  too  low.  Should  it  leave 
the  upper  layer  exposed,  replenish  cautiously  from  the 
boiling  tea-kettle.  When  the  chowder  is  thoroughly  done, 
take  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer  and  put  into  a,  tureen. 
Thicken  the  gravy  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  about 
the  same  quantity  of  butter.  Boil  up  and  pour  over  the 
chowder.  Send  sliced  lemon,  pickles,  and  stewed  tomatoes 
to  the  table  with  it,  that  the  guests  may  add,  if  they  like. 

CuowDEii  {JSfo.  2). 
Slice  six  large  onions,  and  fry  them  in  the  gi'avy  of  fried 
salt  pork.  Cut  five  pounds  of  bass  or  cod  into  staips  three 
inches  long  and  one  thick,  and  line  the  bottom  of  a  pot  with 
them.  Scatter  a  few  slices  of  onion  upon  them,  a  little  salt, 
half  a  dozen  whole  black  peppers,  a  clove  or  two,  a  pinch  ul 
tliyme  and  one  of  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  tomato  or  mush- 
room catsup,  and  six  oysters ;  then  comes  a  layer  of  oyster 
crackers,  well-soaked  in  milk  and  buttered  thickly.  Anotlier 
layer  of  fish,  onions,  seasoning,  and  crackers,  and  so  on  until 
■11  are  \ised  up.  Cover  with  water,  boil  slowly  for  au  hoiir 
and  pour  out.  Serve  with  capers  and  sliced  lemon.  A  cup  ol 
oyster-hquor  added  to  tlie  chowder  while  boiling  imxnovea  it 


.dhyGoogle 


70  COMMON    SENSE. 

SI-IELL-FISH. 
To  Boil  a  Lobster. 
Choose  a  lively  one — not  too  large,  lest  he  stoiild  b« 
krugh.  Put  a  Landfill  of  salt  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water, 
and  having  tied  the  claws  together,  if  yotir  fish-merchant 
lias  not  already  skewered  them,  plunge  him  into  the  pre 
pared  bath.  He  will  be  restive  under  this  vigorous  hydro- 
pathic treatment;  but  allay  your  tortured  ay mpatliies  by 
the  reflection  that  he  is  a  cold-blooded  animal,  destitute  of 
imagination,  and  that  pain,  according  to  some  philosophers, 
exists  only  in  the  imagination.  However  this  may  be,  hia 
suffering  will  be  short-lived.  Boil  from  half  an  hour  to  an 
hoiir,  as  his  size  demands,  "When  done,  draw  out  the  scarlet 
innocent,  and  lay  him,  face  downward,  m  a  sieve  to  dry 
When  cold,  split  open  the  body  and  tail,  and  crack  the  clawa 
to  extract  the  meat,  throwing  away  the  "lady-fingers"  and 
the  head.  Lobsters  are  seldom  served  without  dressing,  up- 
on private  tables,  as  few  persons  care  to  take  the  trouble  of 
preparing  their  own  salad  after  taking  their  seats  at  the 

DuviiiED  Lobster. 
Extract  the  meat  from  a  boiled  lobster,  as  for  salad,  and 
mince  it  finely;  reserve  the  coral.  Season  highly  with 
mustard,  cayenne,  salt,  and  some  pungent  sauce.  Toss  and 
stir  until  it  ia  well  mixed,  and  put  into  a  porcelain  sauce- 
pan (covered),  with  just  enough  hot  water  to  keep  it  from 
burning.  Rub  the  coral  smooth,  moistening  with  vinegar 
until  it  is  thin  enough  to  pour  easily,  then  stir  into  the  con- 
tents of  the  saucepan.  It  is  necessary  to  prepare  the  dress 
Ing,  let  me  say,  before  the  lobster-meat  is  set  on  the  fire. 
It  ought  to  hoil  up  but  once  before  the  coral  and  vinegar 
are  put  in.     Next  stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonfui  of  butter_ 


.dhyGoogle 


BHBLL-FISH.  71 

and  when  it  boils  again,  take  the  pan  from  the  fire.  Too 
much  cookiDg  toughens  the  meat.  This  is  a  famous  supper 
disli  for  sleighing-partiea. 

Lobster  Croquettes.  >{• 

To  the  meat  of  a  weU-toiled  lobster,  chopped  fine,  add 
pepper,  salt,  and  powdered  mace.  Mix  with  tliis  one-quLrter 
as  much  bread-crumbs,  well  rubbed,  as  you  have  meat; 
make  into  ovatea,  or  pointed  balls,  witi  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter.  Roll  these  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  pulver- 
ized cracker,  and  fry  in  butter  or  Tery  nice  sweet  lard.  Serve 
dry  and  hot,  and  garnish  with  crisped  parsley. 

This  is  a  delicious  supper  dish  or  entree  at  dinner. 

Devilled  Crab.  >{• 
This  is  prepared  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt- 
substituting  for  the  coral  in  the  vinegar  some  pulverized 
cracker,  moistened  first  with  a  tablespooaful  of  rich  oreaKi. 
You  can  serve  up  in  the  baek-shell  of  the  crab  if  you  Uke. 
Send  in  with  cream  crackers,  and  stick  a  aprig  of  parsley 
in  the  top  of  each  heap,  ranging  the  sheUs  upon  a  large  flat 

Crab  Salad, 
Mince  the  meat  and  dress  sa  in  lobster  salad.     Send  in 
the  back  shell  of  the  crab. 


Soft  Crabs.  •{« 
Many  will  not  eat  hard-shell  crabs,  considering  thera 
indigestible,  and  not  sufiiciently  palatable  to  compensata 
for  the  risk  they  run  in  eating  them.  And  it  mtist  ha 
owned  that  they  are,  at  their  best,  but  an  indifferent  sub. 
Btitute  for  the  more  aristocratic  lobster.     But  in  the  mom. 


.dhyGoogle 


73  COMMON   SENSE. 

ing  of  life,  for  him  so  often  reoewed,  liia  crabslui)  ia  a 
diiferent  creature,  and  gi'eatly  aifucted  by  epicures. 

Do  not  keep  the  crabs  over  night,  as  the  shells  harden 
in  twenty-four  lioura.  Pull  off  the  spongy  substance  from 
the  sides  and  the  sand-bags.  Tliese  are  the  only  poi-tioua 
tliLit  are  uneatable.  Wash  well,  and  wipe  dry.  Have  ready 
R  pan  of  seething  Iiot  lard  or  butter,  and  fiy  them  to  a  fine 
brown.  Put  a  little  salt  into  the  lard.  The  butter  will 
need  none.      Send  up  hot,  garnished  witli  parslev, 

Water-Tubtles,  ok  Terrapins. 

Land-terrapins,  it  ia  hardly  necessary  to  say,  are  uneat- 
able, but  the  large  turtle  that  frequents  our  mill-ponds  and 
rivers  can  be  converted  into  a  relishable  article  of  food. 

Plunge  the  turtle  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  a3:id  lei 
him  lie  there  five  minutes.  You  can  then  skin  the  under- 
part  easily,  and  pull  off  the  horny  parts  of  the  feet.  Lay 
him  for  ten  minutes  in  cold  salt  and  water ;  then  put  into 
more  hot  water — salted,  but  not  too  much.  Boil  until 
tender.  The  time  will  depend  upon  the  size  and  age. 
Take  him  out,  drain,  and  wipe  dry ;  loosen  the  shell  carefully, 
not  to  break  the  flesh ;  cut  open  also  with  care,  lest  yoa 
touch  the  gall-bag  with  the  knife.  Remove  this  with  the 
entrails  and  saad-bag.  Cut  up  all  the  rest  of  the  animal 
into  small  bits,  season  with  pepjier,  salt,  a  chopped  onion, 
sweet  herbs,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  some  spiced  sauce,  or  a 
tablespoonful  of  caf«up— walnut  or  mushroom.  Save  the 
juice  that  runs  from  the  meat,  and  put  all  together  into 
a  saucepan  with  a  closely-fitting  top.  Stew  gently  fifteen 
minwtes,  stirring  occasionally,  and  add  a  great  spoonful  of 
butter,  or  a  teaspoonful  browned  fiour  wet  in  cold  water,  a 
glass  of  brown  sberry,  and  lastly,  the  beaten  yolk  of  an 
egg,  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  hot  liquor,  that  it  itiav  not 


.dhyGoogle 


SHELL-FIBH.  78 

c"ardle.     Boi]  up  once,  and  turn  into  a  covered  diRli,     Send 
around  green  pickles  and  delicate  slices  of  drj  toast  with  it; 

Steived  Oystees.  "fi 
Drain  the  liquor  fj-oni  two  quarts  of  fiiin,  plump  oj-st«rs ; 
Diix  with  it  a  small  teacupful  of  hot  water,  add  a  Uttle  salt 
and  pepper,  and  set  over  tlie  Are  in  a  euuctii»an.  When  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  add  a  large  cupful  of  iicli  milk.  (Cream  is 
better.)  Let  it  boil  up  once,  put  in  tho  oysters,  let  them 
boil  for  five  minutes  or  less— not  more.  When  they  "ruf- 
fle," add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  the  instant  it  is 
melted  and  well  stirred  in,  taie  the  saiico|ian  from  the  fire. 
Serve  with  oyster  or  cream  crackers,  as  sooft  a.,  possible! 
Oysters  become  tough  and  tasteless  when  cooked  too  much 
or  left  to  stand  too  long  after  they  are  witlidrawu  from  the 
fire.  A  good  and  safe  plan  is,  to  heat  the  milk  in  a  sepa- 
rate  vessel  set  in  another  of  hot  water,  and  after  it  ia 
mingled  with  the  liquor  and  oystei-s,  stir  assiduously  or  it 
may  «  catch,"  as  the  cooks  say— i.  e.,  scorch  on  the  sides  or 
bottom  of  the  saucepan. 

Fried  Oysters.  »!• 
Use  for  flying  the  largest  and  best  oysters  you  can  find. 
Take  them  carefully  from  the  liquor ;  lay  them  m  i-ows  upon 
»  clean  cloth,  and  press  another  lightly  upon  them  to  absorb 
the  moisture.  Have  ready  sevei-al  beaten  eggs,  and  in  an- 
other dish  some  crackers  crushed  fine.  In  tlie  frying-pan 
heat  enough  nice  butter  to  cover  the  oysters  entirely.  Dip 
each  oyster  first  in  the  egg,  then  into  the  cracker,  rolling  it 
over  that  it  may  become  completely  incnisted.  Di-op  them 
carefully  into  the  fiying-pan,  and  fry  quickly  to  a  light 
brown.  If  the  butter  is  hot  enoi>gh  they  will  soon  he  ready 
U>  take  cut.      Test  it  by  putting  in  one  oyster  before  you 


.dhyGoogle 


74  COMUOM    8EN8K. 

lisk  the  rest.  Do  not  let  them  He  m  the  pan  an  instant  aftei 
they  are  done.  Serve  dry,  and  let  the  dish  be  warm.  A 
chafing-dish  is  host. 

Oystee  Feitteeb.  "J« 
Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  to  a  cupful  of  tl.ia 
add  the  sjjas  quantity  of  milk,  three  eggs,  a  little  salt,  aiid 
flour  enough  for  a  thin  batter.  Chop  the  oystei-3  aJid  stir 
into  the  batter.  Have  ready  in  the  frying-pan  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  lard,  or  half  lard,  half  butter ;  heat  very  hot,  and  drop 
the  oyster-batter  in  by  the  tablespoonful.  Try  a  spoonful 
first,  to  satisfy  yourself  that  the  laid  is  hot  enough,  and  that 
the  fritter  is  of  the  right  size  and  consistency.  Take  rapidly 
from  the  pan  as  soon  as  they  are  done  to  a  pleasing  yellow 
brown,  and  send  to  table  very  hot. 

Some  fry  the  oyster  whole,  enveloped  in  batter,  one  in 
each  fritter.  In  this  case,  the  batter  sliould  be  thicker  thm 
if  the  chopped  oyster  were  to  be  added. 

Scalloped  Oystees.  •}« 
Crush  and  roll  several  handfuls  of  Boston  or  other  fri- 
able crackers.  Put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered 
pudding-dish.  Wet  this  with  a  mixture  of  the  oyster  liquor 
and  milk,  slightly  warmed.  Next,  have  a  layer  of  oysters. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  small  bits  of  butter 
upon  them.  Then  another  layer  of  moistened  crumbs,  and 
10  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Let  the  top  layer  be  of  crumbs, 
thicker  than  the  rest,  and  beat  an  egg  into  the  milk  jou 
pour  over  them.  Stick  bits  of  butter  thickly  over  it,  cover 
the  dish,  set  it  in  the  oven,  bake  half  an  hour ;  if  the  dish 
is  large,  remove  the  cover,  and  brown  by  setting  it  upon  the 
upper  grating  of  oven,  or  by  holding  a  hot  shovel  over  ii, 


.dhyGoogle 


bhell-fish.  75 

Broiled  Oysters.  ■{• 
Chocne  lurge,  fat  oysters;  wipe  tliem  very  dry;  apiiiJtle 
ialt  and  cayenne  pepper  upon  them,  and  broil  upon  one  of 
the  smaO  gridirons  sold  for  that  purpose.  You  can  dredge 
the  oyster  with  flour  if  you  wish  to  liave  it  brown,  and  some 
fancy  the  juices  are  better  kept  in  in  this  way.  Others 
dislike  the  crust  thus  formed.  Butter  the  gridiron  well, 
and  let  your  fire  be  hot  and  clear.  If  the  oyster  drip,  with- 
draw the  gridiron  for  an  instant  until  the  smoke  cleara 
away.  Broil  quickly  and  dish  hot,  putting  a  tinj-  piece  ol 
butter,  not  larger  than  a  pea,  upon  each  oyster. 

Cream  Oysters  on  the  Half-shell. 
Pour  into  your  inner  saucepan  a  cup  of  hot  water,  an 
otter  of  milk,  and  one  of  cream,  with  a  little  salt.  Set  into 
a  kettle  of  hot  water  until  it  boils,  when  stir  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  little  salt,  with  white  pepper. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  add  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  ar- 
row-root, rice-flour,  or  corn-starch,  wet  with  cold  milk.  By 
thia  time  your  abells  should  be  washed  and  buttered,  and  a 
fine  oyst«r  laid  within  each.  Of  course,  it  is  selon  les  regies 
to  use  oyster-shells  for  this  purpose ;  but  you  will  find  clara- 
Bhells  more  roomy  and  more  manageable,  because  more  re- 
gular in  shape.  Eange  these  closely  in  a  large  haking-pan, 
propping  them  with  clean  pebbles  or  fragments  of  shell,  if 
they  do  not  seem  inclined  to  retain  their  contents.  Stir  the 
cream  very  hard  and  fill  up  each  shell  with  a  spoon,  taking 
oare  not  to  spiU  any  in  the  pan.  Bake  five  or  six  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven  after  the  shells  become  warm.  Serve  on  the 
shell.  Some  substitute  oyster-liquor  for  the  water  in  the 
mixture,  and  use  all  millr  instead  of  creaia. 


.dhyGoogle 


Jo  COMMON   8EH8B. 

Oystee  Omelet.  •}■ 

12  oysters,  if  large ;  double  tlie  number  of  sioa.!  onea, 

6  .,'ggs. 

1  cup  milt, 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Cliopped  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Chop  the  oysters  very  finely.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whitei 
of  the  eggs  separately  as  for  nice  cake — the  white  until  it 
stands  in  a  heap.  Put  three  tablespoonfiila  of  butter  in  a 
fiying-pfwi,  and  heat  while  you  are  mixing  the  omelet.  Sti» 
the  milk  into  a  deep  dish  with  the  yolk,  and  season.  Next 
put  in  the  chopped  oyaters,  beating  vigorously  as  you  add 
them  gradually.  Wlien  tliey  are  thofoughly  incorporated, 
pour  in  the  spoonful  of  melted  butter ;  finally,  whip  in  the 
whites  lightly  and  with  as  few  strokes  as  possible.  If  the 
outter  is  hot,  and  it  ought  to  he,  that  tlie  omelet  may  not 
stand  uncooked,  put  the  mixture  into  the  pan.  Do  nol  etir 
it,  but  when  it  begins  to  stiffen — "  to  set,"  in  culinary 
phrase,  slip  a  broad-bladed,  round-pointed  dinner-knife 
around  the  sides,  and  cautiously  under  the  omelet,  that  the 
butter  may  reach  every  part.  As  soon  as  the  centre  is 
fairly  "  set,"  turn  out  into  a  hot  dish.  !Lay  the  latter  bot- 
tom upward  over  the  frying-pan,  which  must  be  turned  up- 
side-down dexterously.  This  brings  the  browned  side  of 
the  omelet  upjiermost.     This  omelet  is  dehcioua  and  easily 

Oystee  Pie.  »!• 
Make  a  rich  puff-paste ;  roll  out  twice  as  thick  as  for  u 
£ruit-pie  for  the  top-crust — about  the  ordinaiy  thickness  for 
the  lower.  Line  a  pudding-dish  with  the  thianer,  and  fill 
with  crusts  of  dry  bread  or  light  crackers.  Some  use  a 
folded  towel  to  fill  the  interior  of  the  pie,  but  tlie  above 
expedient  is  preferable.     Butter  the  edges  of  tlie  dish,  that 


.dhyGoogle 


BHELL-riSH.  71 

vou  may  be  able  to  lift  the  upper  emst  without  breaking. 
Cover  tlie  moct-jiie  with  the  thick  crust,  ornamented  heavily 
at  the  edge,  that  it  may  lie  the  more  quietly,  and  bake. 
Cook  the  oysters  as  for  a  stew,  only  beatiug  into  them  al 
the  last  two  eggs,  and  thickening  with  a  spoonful  of  iiue 
cracker-crumbs  or  rice-Hour.  They  should  stew  but  five 
minutes,  and  time  them  so  that  the  paste  will  be  baked  just 
m  season  to  receive  them.  Lift  the  top  cruat,  pour  in  the 
smoking  hot  oysters,  and  send  up  hot. 

I  know  that  many  consider  it  unnecessary  to  prepare  tlie 
oysters  and  crust  separately;  hut  my  experience  and  obser- 
vation go  to  prove  that,  if  this  precaution  be  omitted,  the 
oysters  are  apt  to  he  wofuJIy  overdone.  The  reader  can 
trj'  both  methods  and  take  her  choice. 

Pickled  Ovsteus.  »{• 
100  large  oj^ters. 
1  pint  white  wine  vinegar. 

1  doz.  blades  of  mace, 

2  doz.  whole  cloves. 

2  doz.  whole  black  peppers, 

1  lai^e  red  pepper  broken  into  bits. 

Put  oysters;  Uquor  and  all,  into  a  porcelain-  or  bell-metal 
kettle.  Salt  to  taste.  Hoat  slowly  until  the  oysters  are 
very  hot,  but  not  to  boiling.  Take  them  out  with  a  perfo- 
rated skimmer,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  To  the  liquor  which 
remains  in  the  kettle  add  the  vinegar  and  spices.  Boil  up 
fairly,  and  when  the  oysters  are  almost  cold,  pour  over  them 
scalding  hot.  Cover  the  jar  in  which  they  are,  and  put 
flway  Lu  a  cool  place.  Next  day  put  the  pickled  oysters  into 
glass  cans  with  tight  tops.  Keep  io  the  dark,  and  wnere 
tliey  are  not  liable  to  become  heated. 

I  ha  ve  kept  oysters  thus  prepared  for  three  weeks  in  the 


.dhyGoogle 


7a  OOMMOH   SENSE. 

winter.     If  yon  open,  a  can,  use  tlie  contents  np  as  s<,ob 
as  practicable.      The  air,  like  tke  light,  wiO    turn  there 

It  is  little  trouble  for  every  housekeeper  to  put  np  the 
pickled  oysters  needed  in  her  family ;  and  besides  tlie  satis- 
faction she  will  fee!  in  the  consciousness  that  tlie  materials 
used  are  harmleM,  and  the  oysters  sound,  she  will  save  a' 
least  one-third  of  the  price  of  those  she  wovild  buy  ready 
pickled.  The  colorless  yinegar  used  by  "  professiooala  "  for 
such  purposes  is  usually  sulphuric  or  pyroligneous  acid.  11 
you  doubt  this,  pour  a  little  of  the  liquor  from  the  pickled 
oysters  put  up  by  your  obliging  oyster-dealer  into  a  bell- 
metal  kettle.  I  tried  it  once,  and  the  result  was  a  liquid 
that  matched  the  clear  green  of  Niagara  in  hue,  I  cannot 
compare  it  justly  with  anything  else. 

Roast  Oysters. 
There  is  no  pleaaanter  frolic  for  an  Autumn  evening,  in 
the  regions  where  oysters  are  plentiful,  than  an  impromptu 
"roast"  in  the  kitchen.  There  the  oysters  are  hastily 
thrown  into  the  fire  by  the  peck.  You  may  consider  that 
yoiur  fastidious  taste  is  marvellously  respected  if  they  are 
washed  first.  A  bushel  basket  is  set  to  receive  the  empty 
shells,  and  the  click  of  the  oyster-knives  forms  a  constant 
accompaniment  to  the  music  of  laughing  voices,  !Nor  are 
roast  oysters  amiss  upon  your  own  quiet  supper-table,  when 
the  "  good  man  "  comes  in  on  a  wet  night,  tired  and  hungry, 
and  wants  "something  heartening."  Wash  and  wipe  the 
shell-ojsters,  and  lay  them  in  the  oven,  if  it  is  quick ;  upon 
the  top  of  the  stove,  if  it  is  not.  When  they  open,  they 
are  done.  Pile  in  a  large  dish  and  send  to  table.  Eeraove 
the  upper  shell  by  a  dexterous  wrench  of  the  knife,  season 
the  oyster  on  the  lower,  with  pepper-sauce  and  butter,  or 
pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar  in  lieu  of  the  sauce,  and  you  hai  e 


.dhyGoogle 


BHELL-FlSn.  79 

the   very   aroma  of  tills   pearl  of  bivalves,  pure  and  unde 
filed. 

Or,  you  may  open  \Fliile  raw,  leaving  the  oysters  upor 
the  lower  shells ;  lay  in  a  large  haking-pan,  aud  roast  in  thei  i 
own  liquor,  adding  pepper,  salt,  and  butter  before  serving. 

Raw  Oysters. 
It  has  become  quite  fashionable  to  serve  these  as  one  of 
the  preliminaries   to   a   dinner-party ;  sometimes  in   Hiuall 
plates,  sometimes  on  the  half-shell.     They  are  seasoned  hy 
each  guest  according  to  his  o^va  taste. 

Steamed  Oysters. 
If  you  have  no  steamer,  improvise  one  by  the  help  of  a 
cullender  and  a  pot-lid  fitting  closely  into  it,  at  a  litfclo 
distance  from  the  top.  Wash  some  shell  oysters  and  lay 
tliem  in  such  a  position  in  the  bottom  of  the  cullender  that 
the  liquor  will  not  escape  from  them  when  tlie  shell  opens, 
that  is,  with  the  upper  shell  down.  Cover  with  a  cloth 
thrown  over  the  top  of  the  cullender,  and  press  the  lidhard 
down  upon  this  to  exclude  the  air.  Set  over  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water  so  deep  that  the  cuOender,  which  shoidd  fit  into 
the  mouth,  does  not  touch  the  water.  Boil  hard  for  twenty 
minutes,  then  make  a  hasty  examination  of  the  oysters.  If 
they  ai-e  OjKin,  you  are  safe  in  removing  the  cover.  Serve 
on  tlie  half-shell,  or  upon  a  hot  chafing-dish.  Sprinkle  a 
little  salt  over  tliem  and  a  few  bits  of  butter;  but  be  quick 
ill  whatever  you  do,  for  the  glory  of  the  st 
be  eaten  hot. 

Oyster  PAtSb.  »{« 

1  qt.  oyst«ra. 

3  tablospoonfuls  of  butter. 

Pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 


.dhyGoogle 


80  COITMOS   SENSE. 

Set  the  oysters,  with  enough  liquor  to  cover  them,  in  a 
Baiicepan  upon  the  range  or  stove;  let  them  come  to  a  boU; 
skim  well,  and  stir  in  the  butter  and  seasoning.  Two  or 
three  sjKionfuls  of  cream  will  improve  them.  Ilave  ready 
email  tins  lined  with  puff-paste.  Put  three  or  four  oyKtera 
in  eadi,  according  to  the  size  oithepdte  /  cover  with  pastfl 
and  biike  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes.  For  opea  pdtcs, 
cut  the  paste  into  round  cakes  :  those  intended  for  the  bofc 
tom  crust  less  thaw  half  an  inch  thick ;  for  the  n])per,  a  lit- 
de  thicker.  "With  a  amaller  cntter,  remove  a  round  of  paste 
from  tlie  middle  of  the  latter,  leaving  a  neat  ring.  Lay 
thia  carefully  upon  the  bottom  crust ;  plaee  a  second  ring 
upon  tliis,  that  the  cavity  may  be  deep  enough  to  hold  the 
oysters;  lay  the  pieces  you  have  extracted  also  in  the 
pan  with  the  rest,  and  bake  to  a  fine  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 
When  done,  wash  over  with  beaten  egg,  around  top  and  all, 
and  set  in  the  oven  thi-ee  minutes  to  glaze.  Fill  the  cavity 
with  a  mixture  prepared  as  below,  fit  on  the  top  liglitly,  and 

Mixture. 
To  half  the  liquor  from  a  quart  of  oysters  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  milk,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.     Put  in  all  the 
oysters,  leaving  out  the  uncooked  liquor;  heat  to  boiling, 
and  stir  in — 

1  tableapoonful  butter. 

3  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch,  wet  with  a  Uttle  milk. 

A  little  salt. 

Boil  four  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it  thickens, 
and  fill  the  cavity  in  tlie  paste  shells.     These  piSUi  are  veij 


H..k.d.yGoogle 


SHEIX-FISH. 


Scallops. 


The  heart  is  the  only  part  used.  If  you  buy  thBm  is 
the  shell,  boil  and  take  out  the  hearts.  Those  sold  In  oui 
markets  are  generally  ready  for  frying  or  stewing. 

Dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker-crumbs,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard. 

Or, 

You  may  stew  like  oysters.     The  fried  scallops  are  gen 
erally  preferred. 

Scalloped  Clams. 
Chop  the  clams  fine,  and  season  with  pepjjer  and  salt. 
Cayenne  pepper  is  thought  to  give  a  finer  flavor  tlian  black 
or  white  ;  but  to  some  palates  it  is  insufferable.  Mix  in 
another  dish  some  powdered  cracker,  moistened  first  with 
warm  milk,  then  with  the  clam  liquor,  a  beaten  egg  or  two, 
and  some  melted  butter.  Stir  in  with  this  the  chopped 
clams.  "Wash  as  many  elam-sliclls  as  the  mixture  will  fill ; 
wipe  and  butter  them  ;  fill,  heaping  up  and  smoothing  over 
with  a  silver  knife  or  tea-spoon.  Eange  in  rows  in  yoni 
baking-pan,  and  cook  until  nicely  browned.  Or,  if  you  do 
not  care  to  be  troubled  with  the  shells,  bake  in  patty-pans, 
sending  to  table  hot  in  the  tins,  as  you  would  the  scallop- 
shells. 

Clam  Fritters,  i^ 

12  clams,  minced  fine, 

1  pint  of  milk. 

3  eggs. 
Add  the  liquor  from  the  clams  to  the  milk  ;  beat  up  tho 
eggs  and  put  to  this,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  flour  enough 
for  thin  batter  ;  lastly,  the  chopped  clams.  Fry  in  hot  lard, 
trying  a  little  first  to  see  that  fa  i  and  batter  are  right.  A 
teblespoonfu!  will  make  a  fiittei  of  moderate  size.     Or,  you 


.dhyGoogle 


B»  COMMON   SEHBB. 

can  dip  the  whole  clams  in  baiter  and  coot  in  like  mannei 
Fry  quickly,  or  they  are  apt  to  be  too  greasy. 

Clam  Chowdek. 
Fry  five  or  six  slices  of  fat  pork  crisp,  and  chop  tc 
pieces.  Sprinkle  some  of  these  in  the  bottom  of  a  pot ; 
lay  upon  them  a  stratum  of  clams  ;  sprinkle  with  cayenne 
or  bla«k  pepper  and  salt,  and  scatter  hits  of  butter  profuse- 
ly  over  all;  next,  have  a  layer  of  chopped  onions,  then  one 
of  small  crackers,  split  and  moistened  with  warm  milk.  On 
these  pour  a  little  of  the  fat  loft  in  the  pan  after  the  port 
is  fried,  and  then  comes  a  new  round  of  pork,  clams,  onion, 
etc.  Proceed  in  this  order  until  the  pot  is  nearly  full, 
when  cover  with  water,  and  stew  slowly— the  pot  closely 
covered— for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Drain  off  all  the 
liquor  that  will  flow  freely,  and,  when  you  have  turned  the 
chowder  into  the  tureen,  return  the  gravy  to  the  pot.. 
Thicken  with  flour,  or,  better  stni,  pounded  crackers ;  add 
a  glass  of  wine,  some  catsup,  and  spiced  sauce ;  boil  up, 
and  pour  over  the  contents  of  the  tureen.  Send  around 
walnut  or  butternut  pickles  with  it. 


POULTRY. 
Poultry  should  never  be  eaten  in  less  than  six  or  eight 
hours  after  it  is  killed  ;  but  it  should  be  picked  and  drawn 
as  soon  as  possible.  There  is  no  direr  disgrace  to  our 
Northern  markets  than  the  practice  of  sending  whole  dead 
fowls  to  market.  I  have  bought  such  from  responiiible 
poultry-dealers,  and  found  them  uneatable,  from  having  re- 
mained  undrawn  until  the  flavor  of  the  craw  and  intestine* 
had  impregnated  the  whole  body.  Those  who  are  conver- 
sant  with  the  habit  of  careful  country  housewives,  of  keep 


.dhyGoogle 


POTJLTBT.  83 

ing  up  a  fowl  without  food  for  a  day  and  night  before  kiU- 
mg  anJ  dressipg  for  their  own  eating,  cannot  but  regard 
with  disgust  the  s«rchai^ed  crops  and  putfy  sides  of  those 
sold  by  weight  in  the  shambles.  If  you  want  to  tnow  what 
yoa  really  pay  (or  poultry  bought  in  these  eii-oumstances, 
weigh  the  offal  extracted  from  the  fowl  by  your  cook,  and 
deduct  from  the  market  weight.  "  But  don't  you  know  it 
actually  poisons  a  fowl  to  lie  SO  long  undressed?"  once  ex- 
claimed a  Southern  lady  to  me.  "In  our  markets  they  axu 
offered  for  sale  ready  picked  and  drawn,  with  the  giblets — 
also  cleaned — tucked  under  their  wings." 

I  know  nothing  about  the  poisonous  nature  of  the  en- 
trails and  crops.  I  do  assert  that  the  custom  is  unclean 
and  unjust.  And  this  I  do  without  the  remotest  hope  of 
arousing  my  fellow-housekeepers  to  remonstrance  against 
established  usage.  Only  it  relieves  my  mind  somewhat  to 
giTimble  at  what  I  cannot  help.  The  best  remedy  I  can 
propose  for  the  grievance  is  to  buy  live  fowls,  and,  before 
sending  them  home,  ask  your  butcher  to  decapitate  them  ; 
the  probabilities  being  greatly  in  favor  of  the  supposition 
that  your  cook  is  too  "tinder-hearted"  to  attempt  the  job. 

One  word  as  to  the  manner  of  roasting  meats  and  fowls. 
In  this  day  of  ranges  and  cooking-stoves,  I  think  I  am 
speaking  within  bounds  when  I  assume  that  not  one  house- 
keeper in  fifty  uses  a  spit,  or  even  a  tin  kitchen,  for  such 
purposes.  It  is  in  vain  that  the  writers  of  receipt-books 
inform  us  with  refreshing  naivete  that  all  our  meats  are 
baked,  not  roasted,  and  expatiate  upon  the  superior  flavor 
of  those  prepared  upon  the  English  spits  and  in  old-fash- 
ioned kitchens,  where  enormous  wood-fii-es  blazed  from 
morning  until  night.  I  shall  not  soon  forget  my  perplex- 
ity when,  an  inexperienced  housekeeper  and  a  firm  beljevei 
Id  all  "  that  was  writ "  by  older  and  wiser  people,  I  stood 
before  my  neat  Mott'»  "  Defiance,"  a  fine  sirloio  of  beef 


.dhyGoogle 


«™  COMMON   6ENSE. 

reiwly  to  be  cooked  on  tte  table  hehmd  me,  and  read  fi-o» 
my  lustruction-book  that  my  "  fire  should  extend  at  least 
eight  inches  beyond  the  roaster  on  either  side ! "  I  am  not 
denying  the  virtues  of  spits  and  tin  kitchens— only  regret- 
ting  that  they  are  not  within  tlio  reach  of  every  one.  It 
view  of  this  fact,  let  me  remarlc,  for  tho  benefit  of  tihe  un- 
fortimate  many,  that,  in  the  opinion  of  excellent  judges,  the 
practice  of  roasting  meat  in  close  ovens  has  advantages. 
Of  tliese  I  need  mention  but  two,  to  wit,  the  preservation 
of  the  flavor  of  the  article  roasted,  and  the  prevention  of 
its  escape  to  the  ui)per  regions  of  the  dwelling. 

Tlie  direccions  hereafter  given   touching  roasting   will 
apply  either  to  turnspit,  "kitchens,"  or  ovena. 

KoAST  Turkey. 
After  drawing  the  turkey,  rinse  out  with  several  waters, 
and  in  next  to  the  last  mix  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  The  in- 
side of  a  fowl,  especially  if  pui-chaaed  in  the  market,  is 
sometimes  very  sour,  and  imparts  an  unpleasant  taste  to  the 
stuffing,  if  not  to  the  inner  part  of  the  legs  and  side-bonea. 
The  soda  will  act  as  a  corrective,  and  is  moreover  very 
cleansing.  Fill  the  body  with  this  water,  shake  well,  empty 
,  it  out,  and  i-inse  with  fair  water.  Then  pi-epare  a  dressing 
of  bread-crumbs,  mixed  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  thyme  or 
sweet  maijoram,  and  wet  with  hot  water  or  milk.  You 
may,  if  you  like,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  A  little 
chopped  sausage  is  esteemed  an  improvement  when  well  in- 
corporated with  the  other  ingredients.  Or,  mince  a  dozen 
oysters  and  stir  into  the  dressing ;  and,  if  yon  are  partial  to 
the  taste,  wet  tlie  bi-ead-crumbs  with  the  oyster-liquor, 
Tho  effect  upon  the  turkey-meat,  particukrly  that  of  the 
breast,  ia  very  pleasant. 

Stuff  the  craw  with  this,  and  tie  a  string  tightly  about 
(he  neck,  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  stuBing.      'J'licji  flL' 


.dhyGoogle 


85 


thi)  body  of  the  talker,  "i  •=»  «  »p  will,  strong  tlircad, 
TLu  Mid  tlio  neok-Btring  m  to  be  removed  when  the  fowl 
!•  duhed.  In  roasting,  if  ,onr  Sre  is  brisk,  allow  abont  ton 
mamtes  to  a  pound;  but  it  will  depend  very  muoh  npoo 
the  tui-key's  age  whether  this  rule  holds  good.  Dredge  it 
witli  Sour  before  roasting,  and  baste  often;  at  first  °with 
butter  and  water,  aftei-ward  with  the  gravy  in  the  drippiu^- 
pau.  If  jou  roast  in  an  oven,  and  ky  the  turkey  in  the 
pau,  put  in  with  it  a  teacup  of  hot  water.  Many  roast  al- 
ways upon  ,  grating  placed  on  the  top  of  the  pan.  In  that 
case  the  boiling  water  steams  the  underpart  of  the  fowl, 
and  prevents  the  skin  from  drying  too  fast,  or  orackiug.' 
Eoast  to  a  fine  brown,  and  it  it  threaten  to  darken  too 
rapidly,  l.j  a  sheet  of  white  paper  over  it  until  the  lower 
part  is  also  done. 

Stew  the  chopped  giblets  m  just  enough  watti  to  cover 
them,  and  when  the  tuikey  i.  lifted  fiom  the  pan  add 
these,  with  the  water  m  which  they  weie  boiled,  to  the 
drippmgs;  thicken  with  a  si^onful  of  hi  owned  floui,  wet 
with  cold  water  to  pievent  lumpuy,  boil  up  once,  and  pout 
into  the  gia,,boat.  li  the  turkey  u  very  fat,  iinn  the 
drippmgs  well  befoi*  putting  in  the  giblets. 

Serve  with  cranberry  sauce.  Some  lay  fried  oysters  in 
the  dish  amund  the  turkey. 

Boiled  Turkey. 
Chop  about  two  dozen  oysters,  and  mix  with  them  a 
dressing  compounded  as  for  roast  turkey,  only  with  more 
butter,  and  wet  with  tlie  oyster-liqnor  and  a  like  quantity 
of  milk.  Stuff  the  tiu-key  m  for  roasting,  craw  and  body, 
•nd  baste  about  it  a  thin  cloth,  litted  closely  to  every  part. 
The  mside  of  the  cloth  should  be  dredged  with  flour  to  pre- 
vent the  fowl  from  sticking  to  it.  Allow  fifteen  minute?  ts 
a  pound,  and  boil  slowly. 


,dhyGoogle 


86  COMMOM    6EN8K. 

Serve  with  oyst.er-sauce,  made  by  addmg  to  a  cupful  of 
the  liquor  in  which  the  turkey  was  boiled,  the  same  quAn^ 
tity  of  milk  and  eight  oysters  chopped  fine.  Season  with 
[cinced  paxsley,  stir  in  a  spoonful  of  rice  or  wheat  flour,  wet 
with  cold  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  up  once  and 
pour  into  an  oyster-tureen.     Send  around  celery  with  it. 

Turkey  Scallop.  •}« 

Cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  a  cold  boiled  or  roasted 
turkey  left  from  yesterday's  dinner.  Eemove  the  hits  of 
skin  and  giistle,  and  chop  up  the  rest  very  fine.  Put  in 
the  bottom  of  a  buttered  dish  a  layer  of  cracker  or  bread- 
crumbs ;  moisten  slightly  with  milk,  that  they  may  not  ab- 
sorb aU  the  gravy  to  be  poured  in  afterward ;  then  spread  a 
layer  of  the  minced  turkey,  with  bits  of  the  stnfling,  pep- 
per, Bait,  and  small  pieces  of  butter.  Another  layer  of 
cracker,  wet  with  mUk,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  nearly 
full.  Before  putting  on  the  topmost  layer,  pour  in  the 
gravy  left  from  the  turkey,  diluted— should  there  not  be 
enough — with  liot  water,  and  seasoned  with  Worcester 
shire  sauce,  catsup,  and  butter.  Have  ready  a  crust  of 
cracker-crumbs  soaked  in  warm  mOk,  seasoned  with  salt, 
BJid  beaten  up  l^ht  with  two  e^s.  It  should  be  just  thick 
enough  to  spread  smoothly  over  the  top  of  the  scallop. 
Stick  bits  of  butter  plentifully  upon  it,  and  bake.  Turn  a 
deep  plat«  over  the  dish  until  the  contents  begin  to  bub- 
ble at  the  sides,  showing  that  the  whole  is  thoroughly 
cooked  ;  then  remove  the  cover,  and  brown.  A  large  pud- 
ding-dish full  of  the  mixture  wDi  be  cooked  in  three-ciuar- 
ters  of  an  hour. 

This,  like  many  other  economical  dishes,  will  prove  s« 
savory  as  to  claim  a  frequent  appearance  upon  any  table. 

Cold  chicken  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  ; 


.dhyGoogle 


Or, 
The  minced  turkey,  dreBmg,  a„d  orsckerKmmbs  naj 
be  ™t  mth  gruvy,  two  egg.  beaten  mto  it,  «,d  lie  fo™» 
meat  thu.  made  roEed  iato  oblong  shape.,  dipped  in  e-, 
luid  ponided  caaeter,  and  Med  liJie  croquette.,  for  ,  ride 
duh,  to  "  make  ont  »  a  dinner  of  ham  or  cold  meal. 

EAGOtJT   or   TUEKEY. 

Thi.  is  also  a  cheap,  yet  nice  dish.  Cut  the  cold 
turkey  from  the  bones  and  iuto  bits  an  inch  long  with  knife 
and  fork,  tearmg  as  little  a.  possible.  Put  into  a  skillet  or 
..neepan  the  gimy  left  from  the  roa.t,  with  hot  wator  to 
dilute  It  idiould  the  quejitity  be  mall.  Add  a  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  tea.poouful  of  pungent  sauce 
a  h,lf.tea.poooful  of  clove.,  a  large  pinch  of  nutmeg,  with 
a  little  salt,  let  it  boil,  and  put  in  the  meat.  Stew  Teiy 
slowly  for  ten  minutes— not  more—and  stir  in  a  table, 
spoonful  of  eraubeny  or  currant  jelly,  another  of  browned 
flour  which  ha.  been  wet  with  cold  water;  lastly,  a  glass 
of  brown  sherry  or  Madeira.  Boil  up  once,  «id  .erve  in  a 
eoTcred  di.h  for  breakfast.  Leave  out  the  .tuiiing  eniir* 
ly ;  It  IS  no  improvement  to  the  flavor,  and  disfigures  the 
appearance  of  the  ragotlt. 

EoAsT  Chickens. 
Having  picked  and  drawn  them,  wash  out  well  in  two 
or  three  waters,  addmg  a  little  soda  to  the  kst  but  one 
should  any  doubtf.d  odor  linger  about  the  cavity.  Prepare 
a  stuffing  of  bread-crumbs,  butter,  popper,  salt,  Ac.  Fill 
the  bodies  and  crops  of  the  chiokens,  which  should  be 
young  and  plump ;  sew  them  up,  and  roast  an  hour  or  more 
m  proportion  to  their  size.  Baste  two  or  three  times  with 
outter  and  water,  afterward  with  their  own  gravy      If 


,dhyGoogle 


8S  OOUMOX    SENSE. 

laid  flat  witliin  tke  diipping-pan,  put  in  at  the  first  a  little 
hot  water  to  prevent  burning. 

Stew  the  giblets  and  necks  in  enough  water  to  covei 
them,  and,  when  you  have  i-emoved  tlie  fowls  to  a  hot  dish, 
po\ir  Uiis  into  the  drippings ;  boil  up  once ;  add  the  gib- 
lets, chopped  fine  ;  thicken  with  browned  flour  ;  boil  again, 
and  send  to  table  in  a  gravy-boat. 

Serve  with  crah-applo  jelly  or  tomato  sauce. 

BoiLUD  Chickens. 

Clean,  wash,  and  stuff  as  for  roasting.  Baste  a  floured 
cloth  around  each,  and  jiut  into  a  pot  with  enough  boiling 
■water  to  covet  them  weU.  The  hot  water  cooks  the  skin  at 
once,  and  prevents  the  escaj>e  of  the  jiiices.  The  broth 
will  not  be  so  rich  as  if  the  fowls  are  put  on  in  cold  water; 
hut  this  ia  a  proof  that  the  meat  will  be  more  nutritioua 
and  better  flavored.  Stew  very  slowly,  for  the  first  half- 
houi-  especially.  Boil  an  hour  or  more,  guiding  yourself 
by  size  Mid  toughness. 

Serve  with  egg  or  bread  sauce.     (Sec  Sauces.) 

Feicasseed  Chicken.  (While.)  "J> 
Clean,  wash,  and  cut  up  the  fowls,  which  need  not  be  so 
tender  as  for  roasting.  Lay  them  in  salt  and  water  for 
half  an  hour.  Put  tlicm  in  a  pot  with  enough  cold  water 
to  cover  them,  and  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  cut  into  thin 
strips.  Cover  closely,  and  let  them  heat  very  slowly ;  then 
stew  for  over  an  hour,  if  the  fowls  are  tender.  I  have 
used  chickens  for  tliis  p\irpose  that  required  four  hours' 
stewing,  hut  they  were  tender  and  good  when  done.  Only 
put  them  on  in  season,  and  cook  very  slowly.  If  they  boil 
fast,  they  toughen  and  shrink  into  uneatableness.  Whea 
tender,  add  a  chopped  onion  or  two,  parsley,  and  pepper 


.dhyGoogle 


Cover  closely  again,  and,  wh«i  1 1  as  1  e  ted  t  b  lm„  st  t 
mateacupMof  miEt,  towhkhia  ebee  added  t  o  beaten 
eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fluu  E  i  i  fa  ly  a  !d  a 
great  spoonful  of  butter.  Arringe  the  1  eke  neatl  ma 
deep  clialing-dish,  pour  thegiayo     rtal  e 

In  this,  as  in  all  cases  whe  e  beaten  e^  is  ai  led  to  hoi 
liquor,  it  ia  best  to  dip  out  a  few  spoonJuls  of  the  latt 
and  drop  a  little  at  a  time  into  tl  e  egg  beatmg  ai  tl  a 
whUe,  that  it  may  heat  evenly  an  1  grid  aJly  btfo  e  it  la 
put  into  the  scaldiag  contents  of  tie  sa  cepm  ot  jot 
Eggs  managed  in  tliis  way  will  u  t  c  die  a  thej  a  e  aj;  I 
to  do  if  thrown  suddenly  into  hot  lK[uid. 

Fkicasseed  Chicken.  (Jiroimi..)  ■{< 
Clean,  wash,  cut  up,  and  akin  a  pair  of  young  chickcna, 
Imj  in  clear  water  for  half  an  hour.  If  they  are  old,  you 
cannot  hrown  them  weO.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan,  with 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  them  well,  and  set  over  the  fire 
to  heat  slowly.  Meanwhile,  cut  half  a  pound  of  sjlt  pork 
into  stiijjB,  and  fry  crisp.  Take  them  out,  chop  fine,  and 
l>ut  into  the  pot  with  the  chicken.  Fry  in  the  fat  left  in 
the  frying-pan  one  hwge  onion,  or  two  or  thiee  small  ones, 
cut  into  slices.  Let  them  brown  well,  and  add  them  also 
to  the  chicken,  with  a  t«aspoonfid  of  allspice  and  one  of 
cloves.  Stew  all  togetlier  slowly  for  an  hour  or  more,  until 
the  meat  is  very  tender;  yon  can  test  this  with  a  fork. 
Take  out  the  pieces  of  fowl  and  put  in  a  hot  dish,  covering 
closely  until  the  gravy  is  ready.  Add  to  this  a  great  spoon- 
ful of  walnut  or  other  dark  catsup,  and  nearly  tliree  table- 
R2ioonfiila  of  browned  flour,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  a 
glass  of  brown  sheiTy.  Boil  up  once;  strain  through  a 
cullender,  to  remove  tlie  bits  of  pork  and  onion  ;  return  to 
the  pot,  with  the  chicken ;  let  it  come  to  a  final  boU,  and 
serve,  pouring  tlie  gi-avy  over  the  pieces  of  fowl. 


;c]hyGOOgle 


COMMON    SEHSK. 


Broiled  Chicken. 


It  18  possible  to  reader  a  tough  fowl  eatable  by  boiling 
CI  stewing  it  with  care.  Never  broU  siich !  And  even 
when  assured  that  your  "  broiler  "  is  young,  it  is  wise  to 
make  this  doubly  sure  by  laying  it  upon  sticks  extending 
from  side  to  side  of  a  dripping-pan  full  of  boiling  water. 
Set  this  in  the  oven,  invert  a  tia  pan  over  the  chicken,  and 
let  it  steam  for  half  au  hour.  This  process  relaxes  the 
muscles,  and  renders  supple  the  joints,  besides  preserving 
the  juices  that  would  be  lost  in  parboiling.  The  chicken 
■  should  be  split  down  the  back,  and  wiped  perfectly  dry 
before-  it  is  steamed.  Transfer  ii-om  the  vapor-bath  to  a 
buttered  gridiron,  inside  do'vraward.  Cover  with  a  tin  pan 
or  commou  plate,  and  broQ  until  tender  and  brown,  turning 
several  times ;  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour  will 
be  sufficient.  Put  into  a  hot  chafing-dish,  and  butter  very 
well.     Send  to  table  smoking  hot. 

Feied  Chicken  {No.  1). 
Clean,  wash,  and  cut  to  pieces  a  couple  of  Spring  chick- 
ens. Have  ready  ia  a  frying-pan  enough  hoiling  lard  or 
diipping  to  cover  them  well.  Dip  each  piece  in  beaten  egg 
when  you  have  salted  it,  then  in  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry 
until  brown.  If  the  cbickeo  is  large,  steam  it  before  fry- 
ing, as  directed  in  the  foregoing  receipt.  When  you  have 
taken  out  the  meat,  throw  into  the  hot  iat  a  dozen  sprigs 
of  parsley,  and  let  them  remain  a  minute— just  long  enough 
to  ci-isp,  but  not  to  dry  them.  Garnish  the  chicken  by 
Btrewing  these  over  it. 

FiUED  Chicken  {No.  2). 
Cut  up  half  a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  in  a  frying-paai, 
and   fry  until  the   grease  is  extracted,  hut   not  until  if 


.dhyGoogle 


POULTET.  9  J 

browta.  Wash  and  cut  up  a  young  chicken  (broiling  size) ; 
Boak  in  salt  and  water  for  half  an  hour ;  wipe  dry,  seasor 
witli  pepper,  and  dredge  witli  floui' ;  thea  fiy  in  the  hoi 
fat  until  each  piece  is  a  rich  brown  on  hoth  sides.  Tata 
up,  draoji,  and  set  aside  in  a  hot  coTcred  dish.  Pour  into 
the  gravy  left  in  the  frying-pan  a  cup  of  milk — half  cream 
is  better;  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of  flour  and  a  tatle- 
spoonful  of  butter ;  add  some  chopped  parsley,  boil  up, 
and  pour  over  the  hot  chicken.  This  is  a  standard  dish  in 
the  Old  Dominion,  and  tastes  nowhei-e  else  as  it  does  when 
eaten  on  Virginia  soil.  The  cream-gravy  is  often  omitted, 
and  the  chicken  served  up  dry,  with  bunches  of  fried  pai's- 
ley  dropped  upon  it. 

Chicken  Pot-pie. 

Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  pot  with  a  good  rich 
paste,  reserving  enough  for  a  top  crust  and  for  the  square 
bita  to  he  scattered  through  the  pie.  Butter  the  pot  very 
lavishly,  or  your  pastry  will  stick  to  it  and  bum.  Cut  up 
a  fine  large  fowl,  and  half  a  pound  of  ham  or  salt  pork. 
Put  in  a  layer  of  the  latter,  pepper  it,  and  cover  with 
pieces  of  the  chicken,  and  this  with  the  paste  dumplings 
or  squares.  If  you  use  potatoes,  parboil  them  before  put- 
ting them  into  the  pie,  as  the  first  water  in  which  they  are 
boiled  is  rank  and  unwholesome.  The  potatoes  should  be 
sliced  and  laid  next  the  pastry  squai-es  ;  then  another  layer 
of  pork,  and  so  on  untU  your  chicken  is  used  up.  Cover 
with  pastry  rolled  out  quite  thick,  and  slit  this  in  the  mid- 
dle. Ht-ftt  very  slowly,  and  boil  two  hours.  Turn  into  a 
large  dish,  the  lower  crust  on  top,  and  the  gravy  about  it. 

This  ia  the  old-fasliioned  pot-pie,  dear  to  the  memory 
of  men  who  were  school-boys  thii-ty  and  forty  years  ago. 
If  you  are  not  experienced  in  such  manufactures,  you  had 
better  omit  the   lower  crust ;    and,  having  browned   thi 


;dhyGoogle 


92  COUHOK   SHN8E. 

upper,  bj  piitting  a  hot  pot-lid  or  atove-cover  on  4op  u( 
tlie  pot  for  some  minutes,  remove  dexterously  withoul 
bi'eaking.  Pour  out  the  chicken  into  a  dish,  and  set  tb.e 
crust  above  it. 

Veal,  beef-steak,  lamb  (not  mutton),  hares,  ic,  may  bt 
substituted  for  the  chicken.  The  pork  will  salt  it  sulfi* 
ciently. 

Baked  Chicken  Pie  "J* 
Is  made  as  above,  but  baked  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish, 
and,  in  place  of  the  potatoes,  three  hard-boiled  eggs  ai'e 
chopped  lip  and  strewed  among  tlie  pieces  of  cliickeu.  If 
the  chickens  ai-e  tough,  or  even  doubtful,  parboil  tliem  be- 
fore making  tlie  pie,  adding  the  water  in  which  they  were 
boiled,  instead  of  cold  water,  for  gravy.  If  they  ai'e  lean, 
put  in  a  few  bita  of  butter.  Ornament  with  leaves  cut  out 
witli  a  cake-cutter,  and  a  star  in  the  centre.  Bake  an  hour 
— moi'e,  if  tlie  pie  is  large. 

Chicken  Pddding  4" 

Cut  up  as  for  fncassee,  and  parboil,  seasoning  well  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  to 
each  chicken.  The  fowls  should  be  young  and  tender,  and 
divided  at  every  joint.  Stew  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  take 
them  out,  and  lay  on  a  flat  dish  to  cool.  Set  aside  the 
water  in  whicli  they  were  stewed  for  your  gravy. 

Miike  a  batter  of  one  quart  of  milk,  three  cups  of  Shot, 
three  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  (ityi'la, 
and  one  spoonful  of  cream  t-artar,  with  four  eggs  well  bej'en, 
and  a  little  Kalt.  Put  a  layer  of  chicken  io  the  botto  n  of 
the  diah,  and  pour  about  half  a  cupful  of  batter  ovei  it — 
enough  to  conceal  the  meat ;  then,  another  layer  of  chii  ken, 
and  more  batter,  until  the  dish  is  full.  The  batter  muEt 
form  the  crust.  Bake  one  hour,  Lq  a  moderate  oven,  if  tl>< 
dish  is  large. 


.dhyGoogle 


Beat  up  an  €gg,  and  stir  into  tlie  gi'avy  wliich  was  set 
wide ;  thicken  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  rice  or  wheat  flour, 
lulila  little  chopped  parsley;  boil  up,  and  send  it  to  tabl* 
in  n  gravy-boat. 

Chicken  and  Ham.  •{• 

Draw,  wash,  and  stuff  a  pair  of  young  fowls.  Cut 
enough  large,  thick  slices  of  coM  boiled  ham  to  envelop 
these  entirely,  wrapjiing  them  up  carefully,  and  winding  a 
string  about  all,  to  prevent  the  ham  from  falling  off.  Put 
into  your  dripping-pan,  with  a  little  water  to  prevent 
scorching ;  dashing  it  over  the  meat  leat  It  should  dry  and 
shrink.  Invert  a  tin  pan  over  all,  and  hate  slowiy  for  one 
hour  and  a  quarter,  if  the  fowls  are  small  and  tender — 
longer,  if  tough.  Lift  the  cover  from  time  to  time  to  baste 
witli  the  drippings — the  more  frequently  as  time  wears  on. 
Test  the  tenderness  of  the  fowls,  by  sticking  a  fork  through 
the  ham  into  the  breast.  When  done,  undo  tlie  strings, 
lay  the  fowls  in  a  hot  dish,  and  the  slices  of  ham  about 
them.  Stir  into  the  dripping  a  little  chopped  parsley,  a 
tablespoonfiil  of  browned  flour  wet  in  cold  water ;   pepper, 


and  let  boil  up  once.      Tour  some  of  it  ovf 

n-  the  chickens 

not  enough  to  float  the  ham  in  the  dish ; 

serve  the  rest 

a  gravy-boat. 

Roast  Ducks. 

Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  the  ducks  very  carefully.  To  the 
usual  dressing  add  a  lifctli  sage  (powdei'od  or  green),  and 
a  minced  shallot.  Stufi',  ani  sew  up  as  ustial,  reserving  the 
giblets  for  the  gravy.  If  they  are  tender,  they  will  not  re- 
quire more  than  an  hour  to  roast.  Baste  well.  Skim  the 
gi-avy  before  putting  in  the  giblets  and  thickening.  The 
giblets  should  be  stewed  in  a  very  little  water,  then  cliopped 
fine,  and  added  to  the  gi'avy  in  the  dripping-pan,  with  a 
chopped  shallot  and  a  spoonful  of  browned  ilour 

Accompany  with  currant  or  grape  jelly. 


.dhyGoogle 


94  COMMON   8ERSE. 

To  TTsE  ur  Cold  Dx'ck.  »J. 

I  may  say,  as  preface,  that  cold  duck  is  in  iteelf  an  ex 
celleiit  aupper-dish,  or  side-dish,  at  a  family  dinner,  and  is 
often  prefened  to  hot.  If  the  duck  has  been  cnt  into  at  aJI, 
divide  neatly  into  joints,  and  slice  the  breast,  laying  slices 
of  dreeing  abont  it.  Garnish  with  lettuce  or  parsley,  ajid 
eat  with  jelly. 

But  if  a  warm  dish  is  desired,  cut  the  meat  from  the 
bones  and  lay  it  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  httle  minced  cold 
ham ;  pour  on  just  enough  water  to  cover  it,  ajid  stir  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cover,  and  heat  gradually,  until 
it  is  near  boiling.  Then  add  tlie  gravy,  diluted  with  a  little 
hot  water ;  a  great  spoonful  of  catsup,  one  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  and  one  of  currant  or  cranberry  jelly,  with  a 
glass  of  wine  and  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  Hour. 

Or, 

You  may  put  the  gravy,  with  a  httle  hot  water  and  a  lump 
of  butter,  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is  hot  lay  in  the 
pieces  of  duck,  and  warm  up  quickly,  stirring  in  at  the 
last  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  table 
Bpoonful  of  jelly. 

Serve  in  a  hot  chafing-dish. 

(For  wild  ducks,  see  Game.) 

Stewed  Dock. 
This  is  a  good  way  to  treat  an  old  and  tough  fowl. 
Clean  and  divide,  as  you  would  a  chicken  for  fiicossee 
Put  into  a  saucepan,  with  several  (minced)  slices  of  cold 
ham  or  salt  pork  which  is  not  too  fat,  and  stew  slowly  for 
at  least  an  hour — keeping  the  Kd  on  all  the  while.  Thee 
■tir  in  a  large  chopped  onion,  a  half-si>oonful  of  powdered 
•ago,  or  a  whole  spoonful  of  the  green  leaves  cut  fine,  half 


.dhyGoogle 


PODLTEY.  95 

AS  miich  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  catsup,  and  black  pepper. 
Stew  another  half-hour,  or  uatil  the  duck  is  teader,  and 
add  a  teaspootiful  brown  sugar,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
browned  flour,  previously  wet  with  cold  wat«r.  Boil  up 
once,  and  serve  in  a  deep  covered  dish,  with  green  peas  as 
aa  accomptmiment. 

Guinea  Fowls. 

Many  are  not  aware  what  aa  excellent  article  of  food 
these  speckled  Arabs  of  the  poultry-yard  are.  They  are 
kept  chiefly  for  the  beauty  of  their  plumage,  and  their  deli- 
cious eggs,  which  are  far  richer  than  those  of  chickens. 

Unless  young  they  are  apt  to  be  tough,  and  the  dark 
color  of  the  meat  is  objected  to  by  those  who  are  not  fond 
of,  or  used  to  eating  game.  Cooked  according  to  the  fore- 
going receipt  they  are  very  savory,  no  matter  how  old  they 
may  be.  Put  them  on  early,  and  stew  slowly,  and  good 
managemeat  will  bring  the  desired  end  to  pass.  There  is 
nothing  in  the  shape  of  game  cc  poultry  that  is  not  ame- 
nable to  this  process,  providing  the  salt  be  omitted  until  the 
meat  is  tender. 

But  a  pair  of  young  Guinea  fowls,  stuffed  aud  roasted, 
basting  them  with  butter  until  they  are  half  done,  deserve 
an  honorable  pkce  upon  our  hill  of  fare.  Season  the  gravy 
with  a  chopped  shallot,  parsley,  or  sununer  savory,  not 
omitting  the  minced  giblets,  and  thicken  with  browned 
flour.  Send  around  currant,  or  other  tart  jelly,  with  tha 
fowL     A  little  ham,  minced  fine,  improves  the  dressing. 

Roast  Goose. 
Clean  and  wash  the  goose — not  forgetting  to  put  a  spoon- 
full  of  soda  in  next  to  the  last  water,  rinse  out  well,  and 
wipe  the  inside  quite   dry.     Add  to  tlie  usual  stuffiug  of 
Wread-crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  etc.,  a  tablespoonful  melted  but 


.dhyGoogle 


]f6  OOUMON    B^KBE. 

ter,  a  large-sized  onion  chojiped  fine,  a  tab] espojii fill  chop- 
ped sage,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  some  minute  bits  of  fat 
pork.  Stuff  body  and  ci-aw,  ajid  sew  up.  It  will  take  fuOy 
two  hours  to  roast,  if  the  tife  is  sfcioug.  Cover  t!ie  bi-eas6 
until  it  is  half  done  with  white  pajier,  or  a  paste  of  Hour  and 
water,  removing  this  when  you  are  ready  to  brown. 

Make  a  gravy  as  for  roast  duck,  adding  a  glass  of  sherry 
or  Madeira,  or  (if  you  can  get  it)  old  Port 

Send  to  table  with  cranben-y  or  apple  sauce. 

Goose  Pie. 

An  old  goose  is  as  neaily  good  for  nothing  as  it  ia  possi- 
ble for  aoythiug  which  was  once  valuable,  and  is  not  no'w 
absolutely  spoiled,  to  be.  The  best  use  to  put  it  to  is  to 
make  it  into  a  pie,  in  the  following  mauner.  Put  on  the 
ancient  early  in  the  morning,  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover 
it,  unsalted,  haviag  cut  it  to  jiieces  at  eveiy  joint.  Warm  It 
up  gradually,  and  let  it  stew — not  boil  hard— for  foui'  or  five 
hours.  Should  the  water  need  replenishing,  lot  it  be  done 
fi-ODj  the  boiling  kettle.  Parboil  a  beef's  tongue  (smoked), 
cut  into  slices  nearly  half  an  inch  thick ;  also  slice  six  hai'd- 
boiled  eggs.  Line  a  deep  pudding-dish  with  a  good  paste ; 
lay  in  the  pieces  of  goose,  the  giblets  chopped,  the  sliced 
tongue  and  e^,  in  consecutive  layeiB  ;  season  with  [iep]jer, 
salt,  and  bits  of  butter,  and  proceed  in  this  order  until  the 
dish  is  full.  If  the  goose  is  lai-ge,  cut  the  meat  fi.'om  the 
bones  after  stewing,  and  leave  out  the  latter  entirely.  In- 
tersperse with  strips  of  paste,  and  fill  up  with  the  gmvy  in 
■which  the  goose  was  stewed,  tliickened  with  flour.  Cover 
with  a  thick  paste,  and  when  it  is  done,  brush  over  the  top 
with  beaten  wliite  of  egg. 

In  cold  weather  this  pie  will  keep  a  week,  and  is  vory  ' 
goucL 


.dhyGoogle 


POULTET.  ffj 

Roast  Pigeons. 

^  ra8>ii.''i»li,m,d stuff ssyoaTOoHoliickens.  Lirlhem 
mm,,  ifrouiW  in  the  „™n,  mil,  .  Btfl,  „„  j,,  „,, 
p.«  to  p„ve,.t  .corohizig.  Unl,,.  tb.j  .„  „,j  f„_  ,,„(, 
mill  Intter  until  ttej  „  Mf  J™,  ,rft,„„.j,  ,il^  ^leir 
owu  gr.vy.  THobu  tie  gr.vj  tta  <lri,»  f„u,  tliom,  and 
M  up  once^  tlen  poux  iuto  .  gr.vj-^bo.t.  The  pigeon. 
Bhould  Ue  close  together  on  the  dish. 

Stewed  Pigeons. 
Pick,  draw,  clean  «nd  stuff  as  aboTe  directed.  Put  the 
pigeons  in  a  deep  pot  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them 
and  .tew  gently  for  an  hour,  or  until,  testing  them  with  .' 
fork,  jou  end  them  tender.  Then  .easou  will,  pepper,  «Jt, 
.few  blades  of  mace,  a  little  sweet  n,arjor«„,  and  «  good 
piece  of  butler.  Stew,  or  rather  simmer,  for  five  „i„ute, 
ongor-lhen  .tii  in  a  tablespoonful  of  brownod  dour      Let 

!t  bod  up  once;  remove  the  pigeons,  draw  out  the  string, 
with  wlach  they  wore  sewed  up,  and  „rv.,  pom-ii,.  the  hot 

gmvj-  over  them.     A  Ktle  salt  pork  or  ham,  cut  into  strios. 

IS  «i  nnprovement.     This  should  b.  put  in  when  the  pigeon. 

have  .tewed  half  an  hour. 

Bkoiled  Pigeons  or  Squabs. 
Youiigpigeon.  o,  "  s,u,bs  »  are  rightly  esteemed  a  graii 
dehcacy.  They  are  cleanrf,  waehed,  and  dried  carcfullT  with 
.clean  cloth,  the.  .plit  down  the  b«k,  and  broded  like 
ch,ckous.  Season  with  pepper  and  mlt,  and  butter  liberally 
m  <  ndung  Ihem.  They  are  in  great  request  i.  .  convd..! 
cent .  room,  bemg  peculiarly  .avory  and  nourishing. 

They  may,  for  a  ch«,go,  be  ,o«,ted  whole,  according  to 
tne  receipt  for  iwast  pigeons. 


.dhyGoogle 


]  common  bensb. 

Pigeon  Pie 

la  best  made  of  wild  pigeons. 


KoAST  EEEr. 
The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the  sirloin  and  rib  piecM. 
The  latter  are  oftenest  used  by  small  families.  Make  youf 
butcher  remove  most  of  the  bone,  and  skewer  the  meat  into 
the  shape  of  a  round.  If  you  roast  in  an  oven,  it  is  a  good 
plan  to  dash  a  smaU  cup  of  boUing  water  over  the  meat  m 
first  putting  it  down,  letting  it  trickle  into  the  pan.  This, 
for  a  season,  checks  the  escape  of  tiie  juices,  and  allows  the 
meat  to  get  warmed  through  before  the  top  dries  by  said 
escape.  If  there  is  much  fat  upoD  the  upper  aurfece,  cover 
with  a  paste  of  flour  and  water  until  it  is  nearly  done. 
Ba5te  frequently,  at  first  with  salt  and  water,  after^vard  with 
the  drippings.  Allow  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  a 
pound,  if  you  like  your  meat  rare ;  more,  if  you  prefer  to 
have  it  weU  done.  Some,  when  the  meat  is  almost  done, 
dredge  with  flour  and  baste  with  butter— only  once. 

Eemove  the  beef,  when  quite  ready,  to  a  heated  dish  ; 
BHm  the  drippings;  add  a  teacnpful  of  boiling  water,  boil 
up  once,  and  send  to  table  in  a  gruvy-boat.  Many  reject 
made  gravy  altogether,  and  only  serve  the  red  hquor  that 
runs  from  the  meat  into  the  dish  as  it  is  cut.  This  is  tiie 
practice  with  some-indeed  most  of  our  best  housekeepers. 
If  you  have  made  gravy  in  a  sauce-boat,  give  your  guest  hw 
choice  between  that  and  the  juice  in  the  dish. 

Serve  with  mustaid,  or  scraped  horse-radish  and  vinegar 


.dhyGoogle 


BEEF.  99 

EoAST  Beep,  with  Yoekshiee  Pudding.  4. 
Set  a  pieceof  beef  to  roast  upona  grating,  or  several 
Bticks  laid  across  a  drippiag-paa.  Three-quarters  of  an 
boup  before  it  is  done,  mix  tie  pudding  and  pour  into  the 
pan.  Continue  to  roast  tke  beef,  tbe  dripping  meanwiiile 
falling  upon  the  latter  below.  When  botb  are  done,  cut  the 
pudding  into  squares,  and  lay  around  the  meat  :when  dished. 
If  tbei-e  ia  much  fat  in  fiie  dripping-pan  before  the  pudding 
is  ready  to  be  put  iu,  drain  it  off,  leaving  just  enough  to 
prevent  the  batter  from  sticking  to  the  bottom. 


Meceiptfor 

1  pint  of  milt. 

4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

2  cups  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Be  careful,  in  mixing,  not  to  get  the  batter  too  stiff. 

Tills  pudding,  which  the  cook  who  introduced  it  into  my 
family  persisted  in  calling  "Auction  pudding,"  is  very 
palatable  and  popiUar,  and  not  so  rich  as  would  bo  thought 
from  the  manner  of  baking.  It  should  be  a  yellow-brown 
when  done. 

Beef-Steak. 

It  is  not  customary  to  fry  beef-steaks  for  people  witc 
know  what  really  good  cookery  is.  To  speak  more  plainly, 
a  Bteak,  kiUed  by  heat  and  swimming  in  grease,  is  a  culinary 
solecism,  both  vulgar  and  indigestible. 

Cut  the  steak  thick,  at  least  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in 
thickness,  and  if  you  cannot  get  tender  meat  for  tbis  pur- 
pose,  it  is  best  to  substitute  some  other  dish  for  it.  But 
since  tender  meat  is  not  always  to  be  had,  if  the  piece  you 
have  purchased  is  doubtful,  lay  it  on  a  dean  cloth,  take  a 
blunt  heavy  carving-knife,  if  you  have  not  a  steak  malhit^  : 


.dhyGoogle 


100  COMMON    8KN8B. 

and  ha«k  clogely  from  one  end  to  tlie  other ;  then  turn  and 
repeat  the  process  upon  the  other  side.  The  knife  should 
be  so  dull  you  cannot  cut  with  it,  and  the  strokes  not  the 
sLttieth  part  of  an  ineh  apai't.  "Wipe,  but  not  wash,  and 
lay  on  a  buttered  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  very 
often  as  it  begins  to  drip.  Do  not  season  iintil  it  is  done, 
which  will  be  in  about  twelve  minutes,  if  tUe  fire  is  good 
and  the  cook  attentive.  Rub  your  hot  chafing-dish  with  a 
split  raw  onion,  lay  in  the  ateak,  salt  and  pepper  on  both 
sides,  and  put  a  liber.d  lump  of  butter  upon  the  upper. 
Then  put  on  a  hot  cover,  and  let  it  stand  five  minutes  to 
draw  the  juices  to  the  surface  before  It  is  eaten.  If  you 
have  neither  chafing-dish  nor  cover,  lay  the  steak  between 
two  hot  platters  for  the  same  time,  sending  to  table  without 
uncovering,  A  gridiron  fitting  under  the  grate  is  better 
than  any  other.  If  a  gridiron  is  not  at  hand,  rub  a  little 
butter  upon  the  bottom  of  a  hot,  clean  frying-pan,  put  in 
the  meat,  set  over  a  bright  fire,  and  turn  frequently.  This 
will  not  be  equal  to  steak  oooted  upon  "a  gridiron,  but  it  ia 
infinitely  preferable  to  the  same  tied. 

I  shall  never  forget  the  wondering  distrust  with  which 
my  first  cook,  a  sable  "  professional,"  watched  me  when  1 
undei-took  to  show  her  how  to  prepai-o  a  steat  for  the  third 
breakfast  over-  which  I  presided  as  mistress  of  ceremonies. 
And  when,  at  the  end  of  twelve  minutes,  1  removed  the 
meat,  "  rare  and  hot,"  to  the  heated  dish  in  readiness,  her 
snifi'  of  lofty  contempt  was  eloquent  as  indescribable. 

"  Call  dat  cooked  !  Folks  'bout  here  would  'a  had  dat 
steak  on  by  day-break  !" 

A  remark  that  has  been  recalled  to  my  mind  hundreds 
of  times  since  at  the  tables  of  so-called  capital  housewives. 

The  best — nay,  the  only  pieces  for  steak  are  those  known 

as  porter-house  and  sirloin.     The  former  is  the  moi-e  highly 

-.    esteemed  by  gourmands ;  but  a  really  tender  sirloin  is  mora 


.dhyGoogle 


BEEF.  iOl 

Bcrviceable  where  there  are  several  persons  in  the  family, 
the  ]iorter-house  having  a  narrow  strip  of  extremely  nice 
meat  lying  next' the  bone,  while  the  rest  is  often  inferior  t( 
any  part  of  the  sirloin. 

Beef-steak  and  Onions. 

Pi-epare  the  steak  as  above  directed.  While  it  is  broiling 
put  three  or  four  cho])ped  onions  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  lit- 
tle beef-dripping  or  batter.  Stir  and  shake  them  briskly 
until  they  are  done,  and  begin  to  brown.  Dish  your  steak 
and  lay  the  onions  thickly  on  top.  Cover  and  let  all  stand 
five  or  six  minutes,  that  the  hot  onions  may  impart  the  re- 
quired flavor  to  the  hot  meat.  In  helping  your  guests,  ia- 
quii-e  if  tliey  will  take  onions  with  tlie  slices  of  steak  put 
upon  their  plates.     I  need  hardly  rem     1  th  He  cook 

how  neoessaiy  it  is  to  withdraw  the  "i  1  n  f  m  the  fire 
for  an  instant,  should  the  fat  drip  upo  th  1  bel  w,  and 
smoke  or  blaze.  Yet  those  who  hav  ten  teik  fl  vored 
with  creosote  may  thank  me  for  the      g      t    n. 

Beep  A-la-mode.  »J« 
Take  a  round  of  beef;  remove  the  bone  from  the  middle, 
and  trim  away  the  tougher  bits  about  the  edges,  with  such 
gristle,  4c.,  as  you  can  reach.  Set  these  aside  for  soup- 
Bind  the  beef  into  a  symmetrical  shape  by  passing  a 
strip  of  stout  muslin,  as  wide  as  the  round  is  high,  about  it, 
and  stitching  the  ends  together  at  one  side.  Have  ready  at 
least  a  pouml  of  fat  salt  pork,  cut  into  strips  as  thick  as 
your  middle  finger,  and  long  enough  to  reach  from  top  U, 
bottom  of  tiie  trussed  round.  Put  a  half  pint  of  vinegar 
over  tlie  fire  in  a  tin  or  porcelain  saucepan ;  season  with 
three  or  four  minced  shallots  or  button  onions,  two  tea- 
spoonf.ils   made   mustard,  a  teaspoonfii)    nutmeg,    one   oi 


;dhyGoogle 


102  COKMON   BENBE. 

cloves,  half  as  much  allspice,  half- spoonful  black  pepper ; 
witli  A  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  minced  fine,  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  brown  sugar.  Let  aU  simmer  for  five  minutes,  then  boil 
njj  once,  and  pour,  while  scalding  hot,  upon  the  strips  ol 
pork,  which  should  be  laid  in  a  deep  dish.  Let  all  stand  to- 
gether until  cold.  EemoTe  the  pork  to  a  plate,  and  mix  with 
the  liquor  left  in  the  dish  enough  bread-crumbs  to  make 
ft  toleiubly  stiff  force-meat.  If  the  vinegar  is  very  strong, 
dilute  ■with  a  little  water  before  moistening  the  cnimba. 
With  a  long,  thin-bladed  knife,  make  perpendicular  incisions 
in  the  meat,  not  more  than  half  an  inch  apart,  even  nearer 
is  better;  thrust  into  these  the  strips  of  fat  pork,  so  far 
down  that  the  upper  ends  are  just  level  with  the  surface, 
and  work  into  the  cavities  with  them  a  little  of  the  force- 
meat. Proceed  thus  until  the  meat  is  faii-Iy  riddled  and 
plugged  with  the  pork.  Fill  the  hole  from  which  the  bone 
was  taken  with  the  dressing  and  bits  of  pork ;  rub  the  up- 
per side  of  the  beef  well  with  the  spiced  force-meat.  Put 
into  a  baking-pan,  with  a  little  water  to  prevent  humieg ; 
turn  a  large  pan  over  it  to  keep  in  the  steam,  and  roast 
slowly  for  five  or  six  hours,  allowing  half  an  hoiir  to  each 
pound  of  meat.  If  the  beef  be  tough,  you  had  better  stew 
the  round  by  putting  it  in  a  pot  with  half  enough  water  to 
cover  it.  Cover  tightly  and  stew  very  slowly  for  six  hours; 
then  set  in  the  oven  with  the  gravy  about  it,  and  brown 
half  an  hour,  basting  frequently. 

If  you  roast  the  round,  do  not  remove  the  cover,  except 
to  baste  (and  this  should  be  done  often),  until  fifteen  min- 
utes before  you  draw  it  from  the  oven.  Set  away  with  the 
muslin  band  still  about  it,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  meat. 

When  cold,  lift  from  the  gravy,— which,  by  the  way, 
will  bo  excellent  seasoning  for  your  soup-stock, — cut  the 
Btitdiea  in  the  muslin  girdle,  and  remove  carefidly  and 
send  the  meat  to  table,  cold,  garnished  with  parsley  and 


.dhyGoogle 


nasturtium  blossonia.  Carve  horizontally,  ij  slices  tLin  aa 
a  sliaving.  Do  not  offer  the  outside  to  any  one;  but  the 
Eccond  cut  will  be  handsomely  marbled  with  the  whit* 
pork,  which  appearance  should  continue  all  the  way  down. 
I  cannot  too  highly  commend  this  as  a  side-dish  at  din 
nev,  and  s  supper  and  breakfast  stand-by.  In  winter  it 
«-ill  keep  a  week  and  more,  and  as  long  in  summer,  if  kept 
in  the  refrigerator — except  when  it  is  on  the  table. 

Breakfast  Stew  of  Beef.  >{• 
Cut  up  two  pounds  of  beef — not  too  lean — into  pieces 
an  inch  long;  put  thom  into  a  saucepan  with  just  enough 
water  to  cover  them,  and  atew  gently  for  two  hours.  Set 
away  until  next  morning,  -w  hen  season  with  pejiper,  salt, 
Bweet  maijoi-am  or  summer  savory,  chopped  onion,  and 
parsley.  Stew  half  an  hour  longer,  and  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sauco  or  catsup,  and  a  tablespoonfu!  of  browned 
flour  wet  up  with  cold  water ;  finally,  if  you  wish  to  havo 
it  very  good,  half  a  glass  of  wine.  Boil  up  once,  and  pour 
into  a  covered  deep  dish. 

This  is  an  economical  dish,  for  it  can  be  made  of  the 
r  i)aVfcs  of  the  beef,  and  exceedingly  nice  for  winter 
Eaten  with  corn-bread  and  atewed  potatoes,  it 
will  soon  win  its  way  to  a  place  in  the  "  stock  company  " 
of  every  judicious  housewife 

Another  Breakfast  Dish. 
Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  roast  beef,  and  lay  them  in  a  tin 
laucepan  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Cover  them  with 
*  gi'avy  made  of  three  tableapoonfnls  of  melted  butter, 
jne  of  walnut  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  a  little  sal( 
and  pepper,  a  spoonful  of  ■surrant  jelly,  a  teaspoonful  made 
mustardj  and  some  wiu:in  water.     Cover  tightly,  and  steam 


.dhyGoogle 


for  half  an  hour,  keeping  the  water  ia  the  outer  Tesa;!  on 
a  hard  boil. 

If  the  moat  is  under-done,  this  is  pardcularly  nice. 

Beep  Hash. 

To  two  ]  irtf  colli  loast  or  hoiled  corned  beef,  chopped 
fine,  put  one  of  mabhed  potatoes,  a  bttlc  pepper,  salt,  milk, 
und  melted  biittci  Turn  all  into  a  frying-pan,  and  stir  un- 
til it  ia  heated  through  and  smoking  hot,  but  not  until  it 
browns.  Put  into  a  deep  dii,h,  and  if  stiff  enough,  shape 
as  you  would  ina'^hcd  potato,  into  a  hillock. 

Or,  you  can  LPise  stiiiiug  foi  a  few  niinutos,  and  let 
a  brown  ci-ust  foim  on  the  uiidci  side;  then  turn  out 
■whole  into  a  flat  diah,  the  browu  side  uppermost. 

Or,  mould  the  misture  into  flat  cakes;  dip  these  in 
beaten  eggs  and  fry  in  hot  drippings. 

The  i-eniains  of  beef  a-la-mode  are  very  good  prepared 
in  any  of  these  ways.  A  little  catsup  and  mustard  are  an 
improvement  to  plain  cold  beef,  thus  hashed. 

Bbbf-steak  Pie. 
Cut  the  steak  into  pieces  an  inch  long,  and  stew  with 
Ijie  bone  (cracked)  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  the  meat 
until  it  is  half  done.  At  the  same  time  parboil  a  dozen 
potatoes  in  another  pot.  If  you  wish  a  bottom  crust — a 
doubtful  question— line  a  pudding-diah  with  a  good  paste, 
made  according  to  the  receipt  given  below.  Put  in  a  layer 
of  the  beef,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  very  little  chopped . 
onion;  then  one  of  sliced  potatoes,  with  a  little  butter 
scattered  upon  them,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is  full 
Pour  over  alZ  the  gravy  in  which  the  meat  is  stewed,  hav- 
ing first  thrown  away  the  bone  and  thickened  with  browned 
flovir.  Cover  with  a  ci-ust  thicker  than  the  lower,  having 
%  slit  in  the  middle. 


.dhyGoogle 


Crust  for  Meat-I'ies.  •{• 
1  quart  of  flour. 
3  te.bkspoon.ful8  of  lard. 
3J  cups  milk. 

1  teaapoonful  of  soda  wet  with  hot  ■water,  and 
stirred  into  the  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar  sifted  into  the  dry- 
flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Work  up  veiy  lightly  and  quickly,  and  do  not  get 
too  stifi: 

Beef-Pie,  with  Potato  Chust.  *^ 
Min  -e  some    are  roast  beef  or  cold  corned  beef,  if  ii  u 
not  t  o  a.  ason  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  spread  a 

liy  m  h  b  m  of  a  pudding-dish,  Ovor  this  put  one 
of  ma  n  d  a  and  stick  bits  of  butter  thickly  all  over 
it      hen  An  of  meat,  and  so  on  until  you  are  ready 

fo    th     n  t. 

To  a  large  cupful  of  maahed  potato  add  two  tablespoon- 
fula  of  melted  butter,  a  well-beaten  egg,  two  cups  of  milk, 
and  heat  all  togotlier  until  very  light.  Then  work  in 
enough  flour  to  enable  you  to  roll  out  in  a  slieet — not  too 
stiff — and,  when  you  have  added  to  the  meat  and  potato  in 
the  dish  a  gravy  made  of  warm  water,  butter,  milk,  and 
catsup,  with  what  cold  gravy  or  dripping  remains  from  the 
"  roast,"  cover  the  pie  with  a  thick,  tender  crast,  cutting  a 
slit  in  the  middle. 

You  can  use  the  potato  crust,  which  is  very  wholesonia 
nnd  good,  for  any  kind  of  meat-pie.     It  looks  well  brushed 
uvor  with  beaten  white  of  egg  before  it  goes  to  table. 
5* 


.dhyGoogle 


COMMOK    8EN9E. 


Beep's  Heart. 


W  aeh  the  heai-t  well,  and  cut  into  squares  fialf  an  inci 
long.  Stew  them  for  ten  mjnntes  in  enough  water  to  cover 
them,  Salt  the  water  slightly  to  draw  out  the  blood,  and 
throw  it  away  as  it  rises  in  soum  to  the  top.  Take  out  the 
meat,  strain  the  liquor,  and  return  the  chopped  heart  to  it, 
witli  a  sliced  onion,  a  great  spoonful  of  catsup,  some  pars- 
ley, a  head  of  celeiy  chopped  fine,  and  cayenne  pepper, 
with  a  large  liunp  of  butter.  Stew  until  the  meat  is  very 
tender,  when  add  a  tablcspoonful  of  browned  flour  to 
thicken.     Boil  up  once,  and  serve. 

To  Corn  Bekf. 
Rub  each  piece  of  beef  well  with  salt  mixed  with  one- 
tenth  part  of  saltpetre,  untQ  the  salt  lies  dry  upon  the  sur- 
face. Put  aside  in  a  cold  place  for  twenty-fonr  hours,  and 
repeat  the  process,  rubbing  in  the  mixture  very  thoroughly. 
Put  away  again  until  the  next  day,  by  which  time  the 
pickle  should  be  ready. 

5  gallons  of  water. 

1  gallon  of  salt. 

i  ounces  saltpetre. 

1^  lb.  brown  sugar. 
Boil  this  brine  ten  minutes ;  let  it  get  perfectly  cold  ;  then 
pour  over  the  beef,  having  wiped  the  latter  entirely  dry. 

Examine  the  pickle  from  time  to  time  to  see  if  it  keeps 
well ;  if  not,  take  out  the  meat  without  delay,  wipe  it,  and 
rub  in  dry  salt,  covering  it  well  until  you  can  prepare  new 
and  stronger  brine. 

Bo T LED  Corned  Beef. 
If  your  piece  is  a  round,  skewer  it  well  into  shape,  and 
tie  it  ap  with  stout  tape  or  twine  when  you  have  washed  it 


.dhyGoogle 


BBBF,  107 

[n  three  or  four  waters  and  removed  all  the  salt  from  tlia 
outside.  Put  into  a  pot,  and  cover  with  cold  wat«r.  Al- 
low, in  boiling,  about  twenty  minutes  to  a,  pound.  Turn 
the  meat  three  times  while  cookiug. 

When  done,  drain  very  dry,  and  serve  with  drawn  but- 
ter in  a  sauce-boat.  Send  around  mashed  turnips  with  the 
meat.  They  should  be  boiled  in  a  separate  pot,  however, 
or  they  will  impart  a  disagreeable  taste  to  the  beef. 

The  brisket  is  a  good  piece  for  a  family  dinner. 

Beef  Tongue. 

Soak  over  night  in  cold  wat«r  when  you  have  washed 
it  well.  Next  morning  put  into  a  pot  with  plenty  of  cold 
water,  and  boil  slowly  uiitO  it  is  tender  throughout.  This 
you  can  determine  by  testing  it  with  a  fork. 

When  it  is  cold,  pai-e  off  the  thick  skin,  cut  in  round 
slices,  and  dish  for  tea,  gamishiiig  with  fresh  j^mrsley. 

Tongue  sandwiches  are  generally  held  in  higher  esteem 
Uian  those  made  of  ham. 

Dried  Beep, 

The  most  common  way  of  serving  dried  or  smoked 
beef  is  to  shave  it  into  thin  slices  or  chips,  raw ;  but  a 
more  savory  relish  niay  be  made  of  it  with  little  trouble. 

Put  the  slices  of  uncooked  beef  into  a  frying-pan  with 
just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them ;  set  them  over 
the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  di-ain  off  ail  the  water,  and  with  t 
knife  and  fork  cut  the  meat  into  small  bits.  Return  to 
the  pan,  wliich  should  be  hot,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter and  a  little  pepper.  Have  red.dy  some  well-beaten  eggs, 
idlowing  four  to  a  half-pound  of  beef;  stir  them  into  the 
[)an  with  the  minced  meat,  and  toss  and  stir  the  mixture 
for  about  two  mmutei.     Send  to  table  in  a  covered  dish. 


.dhyGoogle 


108  COMMON   SENSE. 

MUTTON  AND   IAMB. 
EoAST  Mutton. 

TLe  parts  which  are  usually  roasted  are  : — ■ 

Tha  shoulder, 

The  saddle,  or  chine,  and 

The  loin  and  haunch  (a  leg  and  part  of  the  loin). 

The  leg  ia  best  hoiled,  unless  the  mutton  is  young  ami 
very  tender.  Wash  the  meat  weO,  and  dry  with  a  clean 
cloth.  Let  your  fire  he  clear  and  strong  ;  put  the  meat  on 
with  a  little  water  in  the  dripping-pan.  If  you  think  well 
of  the  plan  (and  I  do),  let  this  be  a  cupful  of  boiling  water 
dashed  over  the  meat  when  it  is  ib'st  put  down  to  roast, 
and  left  to  ti'ickle  into  the  pan.  I  have  elsewhere  explained 
the  advantages  of  the  method.  Allow,  in  roasting,  about 
twelve  minutes  per  pound,  if  the  fii*  ia  good.  Baste  often 
— at  first  with  salt  and  water,  afterward  with  the  gravy. 
If  it  is  in  danger  of  browning  too  fast,  cover  with  a  large 
sheet  of  white  paper.  Eoaat  lamb  in  the  Siime  manner, 
but  not  so  long.  Skim  the  gravy  well,  and  thicken  very 
slightly  with  browned  flour.     Serve  with  currant  jelly. 

EoAST  MuTTOJ-'  A  la  VeniBon. 
A  Christmas  saddle  of  mution  is  very  fine,  prepared  as 
follows :  Wash  it  well,  inside  and  out,  with  vinegar.  Do 
not  wipe  it,  but  hang  it  up  to  dry  in  a  cool  cellar.  When 
the  vinegar  has  di-ied  ofi',  throw  a  clean  cloth  over  it,  tc 
keep  out  the  dust.  On  the  next  day  but  one,  take  down 
the  meat  and  sponge  it  over  again  with  vinegar,  then  put 
it  back  in  its  place  in  the  cellar.  Repeat  this  process  tliree 
times  a  week  for  a  fortnight,  keeping  the  meat  hung  in  a 
cold  place,  and  covered,  except  while  you  are  washing  it. 
When  you  are  ready  to  cook  it,  wipe  it  off  with  a  dry 
cloth,  but  do  not  wasli  it.     Eloaat — basting  for  the  firal 


.dhyGoogle 


MUTTON   AND   LiMB.  109 

hour  witli  butter  and  water;  afterward  with  the  gi'avy, 
and  keeping  the  meat  covered  with  a  large  tin  pan  for  two 
hours.  A  large  saddle  of  mutton  will  require  four  hours  to 
roast.  When  it  is  done,  remove  to  a  dish,  and  cover  t<j 
keep  it  hot.  Skim  the  gravy,  and  add  half  a  tcacupful 
of  -walmit,  mushroom,  or  tomato  catsup,  a  glass  of  Mar 
deira  wine,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour.  Boil 
up  once,  and  send  to  table  in  a  saiice-boat.  Always  send 
around  currant  or  some  other  tart  jelly  with  roast  mutton. 
If  properly  cooked,  a  saddle  of  mutton,  prepared  in  accord- 
ance with  these  directions,  will  strongly  resemble  venison 
in  taste.  Ao  old  Vu-ginia  gentleman  whom  I  used  to 
know,  always  hung  up  the  finest  saddle  his  plantation 
could  furnish  six  weeks  before  Cliristmas,  and  had  it 
Sponged  off  with  vinegar  every  other  day,  until  the  morn- 
ing of  the  impoilant  25th  ;  and  the  excellence  of  Ids  mut- 
ton was  the  talk  of  the  neighborhood.  It  can  certainly  be 
kept  a  fortnight  anywhere  at  that  season. 

Boiled  Mutton. 
Wash  a  leg  of  mutton  clean,  and  wipe  dry.  Do  not 
leave  the  knuckle  and  ahaiik  so  long  as  to  he  unshapely. 
Put  into  a  pot  with  hot  waf«r  (salted)  enough  to  cover  it, 
and  boil  until  you  ascertain,  by  probing  with  a  fork,  that 
it  is  tender  in  the  thickest  part.  Skim  off  all  tlie  scum  aa 
it  rises.  Allow  about  twelve  miniitcs  to  each  pound.  Taho 
from  the  fire,  drain  perfectly  dry,  and  serve  with  melted 
butter,  with  capers,  or  nasturtiiun  seed ;  or,  if  you  have 
neither  of  these,  some  cucumber  or  gherkin-pickle  stin-ed 
into  it.  If  you  wish  to  use  tlie  bi-oth  for  soup,  put  in  very 
little  salt  while  boiling ;  if  hot,  salt  well,  and  boil  the  meat 
b)  a  c'.oth. 


.dhyGoogle 


no  COMMON   SENSE. 

Mutton  Stew,  •}■ 

Cut  up  from  three  to  four  pounds  of  mutton, — the  in- 
ferior portions  will  do  as  well  as  any  other, — ci'afilt  tha 
bones,  awd  remove  all  the  fat.  Put  on  tlie  nieat — tha 
pieces  not  more  than  an  inch  and  a  half  in  length — in  a  jjul 
with  enougli  cold  water  to  cover  well,  and  set  it  where  it 
will  heat  gradually.  Add  nothing  else  until  it  has  stewed 
an  hour,  closely  covered ;  then  throw  in  half  &  pound  of 
salt  pork  cut  into  strips,  a  chopped  onion,  and  some  pep- 
per; cover  and  stew  an  hour  longer,  or  until  the  meat  ia 
very  tender.  Make  out  a  little  paste,  as  for  t!ie  crust  of 
a  meat-|ae ;  cut  into  squares,  and  drop  in  the  stew.  Boil 
ten  minutes,  and  season  further  hy  the  addition  of  a  littie 
parsley  and  thyme.  Thicken  with  two  spoonfuls  of  flour 
stirred  into  a  cup  of  cold  milk.  Boil  up  once,  and  serve 
in  a  tureen  or  deep  covei-ed  dish. 

If  green  com  is  in  season,  this  stew  is  greatly  improved 
by  adding,  an  hour  before  it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  the 
grains  of  half  a  dozen  ears,  cut  from  the  cob. 

Tiy  it  for  a  cheap  family  dinner,  and  you  will  rejieat 
the  experiment  often.  Lamb  is  even  better  for  your  pur- 
pose than  mutton. 

Mutton  Chops. 

If  your  butcher  has  not  done  it, — tuul  the  chances  are 
that  he  has  not,  unless  you  stood  by  to  see  it  attended  to, — 
trim  off  the  superfluous  fat  and  skin,  so  as  to  give  the 
chops  a  certain  lithoness  and  elegance  of  sliape.  Dip  each 
in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  pounded  cracker,  and  fry  in  hot  lard 
or  dripping.  If  the  fat  is  unsalted,  sprinkle  the  chops 
with  salt  before  rolling  in  tiie  egg.      Serve  up  dry  and  hot. 

Or, 
You  may  omit  the  egg  and  cracker,  tmd  broil  on  a  gridifoa 
over  a  bi-ight  fire.     Put  a  little  salt  and  pepper  upon  each 


.dhyGoogle 


(hop,  and  butter  them  before  they  go  to  table.     Cook  lami 
chofis  in  the  same  way. 

Mutton  Cutlets,  [Jiaked.) 
Cut  them  from  the  neck,  and  trim  neatly.  Lay  aside 
the  bits  of  bone  and  meat  you  cut  off,  to  niake  gravy, 
Poiir  a  Uttle  melted  butter  oTer  the  cutlets,  and  let  them 
lie  in  it  for  fifteen  minutes,  keeping  them  just  warm  enough 
to  prevent  the  butter  from  hardening;  then  dip  each  in 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker-crumbs,  and  lay  them  in  your 
dripjiing-pan  -with  a  very  Uttle  water  at  tlie  bottom.  Bake 
quickly,  and  baste  often  with  butter  and  water.  Put  on 
tlie  bones,  ikc,  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them ;  stew, 
and  season  with  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  and  salt,  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  tomato  catsup.  Strain  when  all  the  substance  ia 
exti-acted  from  the  meat  and  bones ;  thicken  with  browned 
flour,  and  pour  over  the  cutlets  when  they  are  served. 

Mutton  Ham. 
For  a  leg  of  mutton  weighing  12  Iba.,  take — 

I  ounce  of  black  pepper,  or  J  ounce  of  cayenne, 

^  lb.  brown  sugar, 

1  ounce  saltpetre, 

li  lb.  salt. 
The  day  after  the  sheep  ia  killed,  mix  the  sugar,  pepper, 
and  saltpetre,  and  rub  well  into  the  meat  for  nearly  iifte  en 
minutes,  until  the  outer  part  of  it  is  thoroughly  impref 
natod  with  the  seasoning.  Put  the  ham  into  a  large  earth- 
enware vessel,  and  cover  it  with  the  salt.  Let  it  remain 
thus  for  three  weeks,  turning  it  every  day  and  basting  it 
with  the  brine ;  adding  to  this,  after  the  first  week,  a  tea- 
cupful  of  vinegar.  When  the  ham  is  removed  from  th€ 
pickle,  wash  with  cold  water,  then  with  vinegar,  and  hang 


.dhyGoogle 


J  13  COMMON   BEN8E. 

it  up  in  a  cool  cellar  for  a  week,  at  least,  before  it  il 

Soak  an  hour  in  fair  water  before  boiling. 

Or  if  you  choose  to  smoke  it  for  several  days  after  it  is 
corned,  it  can  he  chipped  and  eaten  raw,  like  jerked  ven- 
ison or  dried  beef. 

Most  of  the  receipts  ahoTe  given  will  apply  as  well  to 
lamb  as  to  mutton.  There  are  several  exceptions,  however, 
which  you  will  do  well  to  note.  Lamb  should  never  be 
boiled  except  in  atews.  It  is  tasteless  and  sodden  cooked 
in  this  manner,  on  account  of  its  immaturity.  But,  on  the 
other  hand,  a  lamb-pie,  prepared  like  one  of  beef  or  ven- 
ison, is  excellent,  while  mutton-pies  have  usually  a  strong, 
tallowy  taste,  tliafc  spoils  them  for  delicate  palates. 

Boast  lamb  should  be  eaten  with  mint  sauce  {if  you 
fancy  il),  currant  jelly,  and  aspai'agus  or  green  peas.  Let- 
tuce-sal  ad  is  likewise  a  desirable  accompaniment. 

Mutton  ok  Lamb  EECHAurpfi.  •{• 
Cut  some  slices  of  cold  underdone  mutton  or  lamb ;  put 
them  in  a  frying-pan  with  enough  gravy  or  broth  to  oovef 
them.  Or,  if  you  have  neither  of  them,  make  a  gi-avy  of 
butter,  warm  water,  and  catsup.  Heat  to  boiling,  and  stir 
in  pepper  and  a  great  spoonful  of  currant  jelly.  Send  to 
table  in  a  cliafing-dish,  witli  the  gravy  poured  about  tha 

Or, 
You  can  put  a  lump  of  the  butter  in  the  hottom  of  the 
pan,  and  when  it  boils,  lay  in  the  slices  of  meat,  turning 
them  before  they  have  time  to  crisp.  As  soon  as  they  are 
thoroughly  heated  talie  them  out,  lay  upon  a  hot  disli, 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  with  a  small  spoou 
ful  of  jelly  laid  upon  eacli. 


.dhyGoogle 


VEAL. 
Despite  the  prejudice,  secret  or  expressed,  wLich  pre^ 
fails  in  many  minds  against  vea!, — one  whicli  tte  wise  and 
witty  "Country  Parson"  has  as  surely  fostered  among 
reading  people,  as  did  Charles  Lamb  the  partiality  foe 
roast  pig, — the  excellent  and  attractive  dishes  titat  own  this 
as  their  base  are  almost  beyond  number.  For  soups  it  is 
invaluable,  and  in  entrees  and  redumffeg  it  plays  a  distin- 
guished part.  From  his  head  to  his  feet,  the  animal  that 
fnmishes  us  with  this  important  element  of  success  in  what 
should  be  the  prime  object  of  cookeij,  to  wit,  to  jdeise 
while  we  nourish,  has  proved  himself  so  useful  as  an  ally 
that  it  behooves  us  to  lift  the  stigraa  from  the  name  of 
"calf,"  provided  he  be  not  too  infantine  In  that  case  he 
degenerates  into  an  insipid  mass  ot  pulpy  muscle  and  gela 
tine,  and  deserves  the  bitterest  sineers  th,it  ha^  e  been  flung 
at  his  kind. 

EoAST  Veal. 


Veal  i-equirea  a  longer  time  to  roast  than  mutton  or 
Itunb.  It  is  fair  to  allow  at  least  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to 
each  pound.  Heat  gradually,  baste  frequently — at  first 
with  salt  and  water,  afterward  with  gravy.  When  the 
meat  is  nearly  done,  dredge  lightly  with  flour,  and  bast« 
once  with  melted  butter.  Skim  the  gravy ;  thicken  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  boil  up,  aaid  put  into  the  gravy-boat. 

Should  the  meat  brown  too  fast,  cover  with  white  paper. 
The  juieos,  which  make  up  the  chai-acteristic  flavor  of  meat, 
ire  oftener  dried  out  of  veal  than  any  other  flesh  tha  t  comei 
to  our  tables. 

BTtEAST. 

Make  incisions  between  the  ribs  and  the  meat,  and  fill 
with  a  force-meat  made  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  bits  of  pork 


.dhyGoogle 


Hi  COMMON    SENSE. 

or  liam  chopped  "  exceeding  small,"  salt,  pepper,  thyme, 
Bweet  marjoiura,  and  beaten  egg.  Save  a  Kttle  to  thicken 
Uie  gravy.  Koast  slowly,  basting  often,  and  the  verdict  of 
the  eaters  will  differ  from  theirs  who  pix)nounce  this  ths 
coarsest  part  of  the  veal.  Dredge,  at  the  last,  with  flour; 
and  baste  well  ence  with  butter,  as  with  the  loia. 

FILLET. 

Make  ready  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  chopped  thyme 
and  pai-sley ;  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  Bait,  nibbed  to- 
gether with  some  melted  butter  or  beef  suet ;  moisten  with 
milk  or  hot  water,  and  hind  with  a  heaten  egg. 

Take  out  the  hone  from  the  meat,  and  pin  securely  into 
a  round  with  skewers ;  then  pass  a  stout  twine  several 
times  about  the  fillet,  or  a  band  of  muslin.  Fill  the  cavity 
from  which  the  boiie  was  taken  with  this  stufiing,  and  thrust 
between  the  folds  of  the  meat,  besides  making  incisiona 
with  a  thin,  sharp  knife  to  receive  it.  Once  in  a  while 
slip  in  a  strip  of  fat  pork  or  ham.  Baste  at  first  with  salt 
and  water,  afterward  with  gmvy.  At  the  last,  dredge  with 
flour  and  baste  with  butter. 

SHOUIJJER. 

Stuff  as  above,  making  horizontal  incisions  near  the 
bone  to  receive  the  dressing,  and  roast  in  like  manner. 

Veal  Cutlets. 
Dip  in  beaten  egg  when  you  have  spriaikled  a  little 
pepper  and  salt  over  them ;  then  roll  in  cracker-crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  dripping  or  lard.  If  you  use  butter  or  drip- 
ping, add  a  little  boiling  water  to  the  gravy  when  the  meat 
is  dished ;  thicken  with  browned  flour,  boil  up  once,  send 
big  to  table  in  a  hoat. 


.dhyGoogle 


you  cai.  rub  tho  cutlets  wel!  with  melted  butter,  pcjiper 
and  broil  on  a  gridiixm  like  beef-steak,  buttering  vm-y  well 
after  dishing. 

Veal  Chops 
Arp  more  juicy  and  less  apt  to  be  tough  and  solid  than  cut- 
lets.    Tiim  the  bone  as  with  mutton  chops,  and  fry,  dip- 
ping iu  beaten  egg  and  cracker-crumbs.     Add  a  little  para- 
ley  and  a  minced  shallot  to  the  gravy. 

Veal  Steak. 
This  should  be  thinner  than  beof-steak,  and  be  done 
throughout.  Few  persons  are  fond  of  rai'e  veal.  Broil 
upon  a  well-greased  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  and  turn  ii'e- 
quently  while  the  steaks  are  cooking.  Put  into  a  saucepan 
four  or  five  young  onions  minced  fine,  a  great  teaspoonfut 
of  tomato  catsup,  or  twice  the  quantity  of  stewed  tomato, 
a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  thyme  or 
parsley,  with  a  small  teaeupful  of  hot  water.  Let  them 
stew  together  while  the  steaks  are  broiluig,  thickening,  be- 
fore you  turn  tlie  gravy  out,  with  a  spoonful  of  browned 
flour.  Add,  if  you  please,  a  half-glasa  of  wine.  Boil  up 
once  hard,  and  when  the  steaks  are  dished,  with  a  small  bit 
of  butter  upon  eaeh,  pour  the  mixture  over  and  around 

Spinach  is  as  natural  an  accompaniment  to  veal  as  are 
green  peas  to  lamb. 

Veai  Pies, 

Let  your  veal  be  juicy  and  not  too  fat.  Take  out  all 
the  bone,  and  put  with  the  fat  and  refuse  bits,  such  as  skin 
or  giistle,  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  large  teaeupful  of  cold  wa- 
ter to  make  gravy.     Instead  of  chopping  the  veal,  cut  ir 


.dhyGoogle 


lie 

thin,  even  slices.  Line  g,  pudding-dish  with  a  good  pasto^ 
und  put  a  layer  of  veal  in  the  bottom;  then  oue  of  hard 
boiled  eggs  sliced,  each  piece  buttered  and  peppered  before 
it  is  laid  upon  the  veal ;  cover  these  with  sliced  ham  oi 
thin  stidps  of  salt  pork.  Squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon- 
juice  uijon  the  ham.  Then  anotliev  layer  of  veal,  aud  so 
on  uutil  you  are  ready  for  the  gravy.  This  should  have 
been  stewing  for  half  an  hour  or  so,  with  the  addition  of 
pepper  and  a  bunch  of  aromatic  herbs.  Strain  through  a 
thin  cloth  and  pour  over  the  pie.  Cover  with  crust  and 
bake  two  houra. 

Or, 

Butter  a  large  bowl  very  thickly,  and  lino  with  sliced  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Then  p\it  in,  in  perpendicular  layers,  a  lining 
of  veal  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  seasoned  with  pepper.  Next, 
one  of  sliced  ham,  each  slice  peppered  and  sprinkled  with 
lemon-juice,  more  veal  and  more  ham,  until  the  dish  ia 
packed  to  the  brim.  Cover  with  a  thick  paste  made  of 
flour  and  hot  water,  just  stiff  enough  to  handle  with  ease. 
Press  this  closely  to  the  outside  of  the  bowl,  which  should 
not  be  at  all  greasy.  Let  it  overlap  the  vim  about  half  an 
inch.  Some  cooks  substitute  a  cloth  well  floured,  but  it 
does  not  keep  in  the  essence  of  the  meats  as  well  as  the 
paste.  Set  the  bowl  in  a  pot  of  hot  water,  not  so  deep  that 
it  will  bubble  over  the  top.  It  is  better  that  it  should  not 
touch,  the  paste  rim.  Boil  steadily — not  hard — for  at  least 
thi-ee  hours.  Remove  the  paste  the  next  day,  when  bowl 
and  contents  are  perfectly  cold,  and  turn  out  the  pie  into  a 
large  plate  or  flat  dish.  Out  in  circular  slices — thin  as  a 
wafer — beginning  at  the  top,  keeping  your  carver  horizon- 
tal, and  you  have  a  delicious  relish  for  the  supper-table,  or 
side-dish  for  dinner.  Set  in  a  cool  place,  and  in  winter  it 
will  keep  several  days. 

This  is  the  "  weal  and  hammer  pie  "  endorsed  by  Mr 


.dhyGoogle 


TEAL.  117 

W*:gg  fis  a  good  tiling  "  for  mellei'iiig  the  organ,"  and  is  a 
great  fttvoiite  in  Engliiud.  Tt  is  a  good  plan  to  butter  the 
eggs  as  well  as  the  dish,  as  m\icli  of  the  success  of  the  pie 
depends  upon  the  manner  in.  which  it  is  turned  out.  Also, 
njjon  the  close  packing  of  the  sliced  meat.  The  salt  hiiin 
prevents  the  need  of  other  salt. 

Stewed  Fillet  or  Veai., 
Stuff,  and  bind  ivith  twine  as  for  roa^rting  Then  covei 
the  top  and  sides  with  sln,i-d  ham  whn-h  has  been  alieady 
boDed,  securing  with  skewers,  oi  twme  cios&mg  the  meat 
in  all  directions.  Lay  m  a  j  ot,  put  in  two  lii^e  cups  of 
boiling  water,  cover  initLpdiately  and  cloaelj,  ind  atew 
gently — never  lotting  it  cease  to  boil,  yet  ne\  ei  boiling  hard, 
for  four  or  five  hours.  A  Saige  fillet  will  lequiie  nearly 
five  hours.  Eemove  the  cover  as  seldom  as  possible,  and 
only  to  ascertain  whether  the  water  has  boiled  away.  If 
it  is  too  low,  replenish  from  the  boiling  kettle.  Take  off 
the  strings  when  the  meat  is  done  ;  arrange  the  ham  about 
the  fillet  in  the  dish,  and  serve  a  bit  with  each  slice  of  Teal. 
Strain  the  gravy,  thicken  with  flour,  boil  up  once,  and  send 

Serve  with  stewed  tomatoes  and  spinach. 

Stewed  Kbuckle  of  Veal. 
Put  the  meat  into  a  pot  with  two  quarts  of  boiling  wa 
ter,  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  or  ham  cut  into  strijis,  a 
carrot,  two  onions,  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  one  of  aiimnier 
savoiy — all  cut  fine — two  dozen  whole  pepper-corna,  and 
stew,  closely  covered,  fia'  tliree  houre.  When  done,  take 
the  meat  il-om  the  pot  and  lay  in  the  dish.  Sti'aiu  the 
gravy,  thicken  with  rice-flour,  boil  up  once,  and  pour  ovei 
the  meat. 


.dhyGoogle 


118  COMiiOS   SEXSF. 

Veal  Scallop.  ■{" 

(!hop  some  cold  roast  or  stewed  veal  very  fine,  pal  a 
layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  season 
with  popper  and  salt.  Kext  have  a  layer  of  finely  powder 
ed  crackers.  Strew  some  bits  of  butter  upon  it  and  wel 
■with  a  little  mJlli- ;  then  more  veal  seasoned  as  before,  and 
another  round  of  cracker-crumbs,  with  butter  and  milk 
When  the  dish  is  full,  wet  wel]  with  gravy  or  broth,  dilu- 
ted with  warm  water.  Spread  over  all  a  thick  layer  of 
cracker  seasoned  with  salt,  wet  into  a  past*  with  milk  and 
bound  with  a  beaten  egg  or  two,  if  the  dish,  be  lai^e.  Stick 
butter-bits  thickly  over  it ;  invert  a  tin  pan  so  as  to  cover 
all  and  keep  in  the  steam,  and  bake — if  small,  half  an  hour  ■ 
three-quarters  will  suffice  for  a  large  dish.  E«move  tha 
cover  ten  minutes  before  it  is  served,  and  brown. 

This  simple  and  economical  dish  sliould  be  an  acquaint- 
ance with  all  who  are  fond  of  vea!  in  any  shape.  Children 
generally  like  it  exceedingly,  and  I  have  heard  more  than 
one  gentleman  of  excellent  judgment  in  culinary  affaire 
declare  that  the  best  thing  he  knew  about  roast  veal  v  as 
that  it  was  the  harbinger  of  scallop  on  the  second  day. 

Try  it,  and  do  not  get  it  too  dry. 

Veal  Pat£8. 
Mince  the  veal  as  above,  and  roll  three  or  four  eracl  itti 
bo  powder.  Also,  chop  up  some  cold  ham  and  mix  w  ith 
the  veal  in  the  proportion  of  one-third  ham  and  two-thirds 
veal.  Then  add  the  cracker,  and  wet  well  with  gravy  r^nd 
a  little  milk.  If  you  have  no  gravy,  stir  into  a  cup  of  hot 
milk  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  beaten  egg.  Sea- 
son well  to  your  taste,  and  bake  in  pate  pans  lined  with 
puiF-paste.  If  eaten  hot,  send  to  table  in  the  tins.  H  iold, 
(lip  the  pitea  out  and  pile  upon  a  plate,  with  sprigs  of  jiai» 


.dhyGoogle 


Usy  between.     A  little  oyster-liquor  is  a  marked  iniprov& 
ment  to  the  gravy. 

Stewed  Calp's-Head. 

Wash  the  head  in  several  waters,  and  taking  out  the 
brains,  se";  them  by  in  a  cool  place.  Tie  the  head  in  a  flour- 
ed  cloth  and  boil  it  two  hours  in  hot  water  slightly  salted. 
Wash  the  brains  carefully,  picking  out  all  the  bits  of  skiu 
and  membrane,  cleansing  them  over  and  over  until  they 
are  perfectly  white.  Then  stew  in  just  enough  water  tc 
cover  them.  Take  them  out,  mash  smooth  with  the  back 
of  a  wooden  spoon,  and  add  gradually,  that  it  may  not 
hmip,  a  small  teacupfui  of  the  water  in  which  the  head  ia 
boiled.  Season  with  chopped  parsley,  a  pinch  of  sage,  pej)- 
per,  salt,  and  powdered  cloves,  with  a  great  spoonful  of  but- 
ter. Set  it  over  the  fire  to  simmer  in  a  saucepan  until  you 
are  ready.  When  the  head  ia  tender,  take  it  up  and  drain 
very  dry.  Score  the  top,  and  rub  it  well  over  with  melted 
butter ;  dredge  with  flour  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown. 
Or,  you  can  use  beaten  egg  and  cracker-crumbs  in  place  of 
the  butter  and  flour. 

When  you  serve  the  head,  pour  the  gravy  over  it. 

Never  skin  a  calf  s-head.  Scald  as  you  would  that  of 
»pig.  A  little  lyo  in  the  water  will  remove  the  hair — as 
will  also  pounded  rosin,  applied  before  it  is  put  into  the  water, 

Calf's,Head  (  Sccdlt)^  '■d)  4* 
Clean  the  head,  remove  the  brams,  and  set  in  a  cool 
place.  Boil  the  head  until  the  meat  slips  easily  from  the 
bones.  Take  it  out  and  chop  hue,  seism  ■with  herbs,  peji- 
per,  and  salt;  then  put  in  lajets  into  a  buttered  pudding- 
dish  with  bits  of  butter  between  eaoh  Ujtr  Moisten  well 
with  the  liquor  in  which  the  head  was  bulled.  Wash  the 
brains  very  thoroughly,  removing  all  the  membrane.      Beat 


.dhyGoogle 


120  COUUON   SENSE. 

them  into  a  smooth  paste,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
stir  in  with  them  two  eggs  beaten  very  light.  Spread  this 
evenly  over  the  scallop,  dredge  tlie  top  with  a  tittle  flour, 
and   bake  to  a  delicate  brown.      Half  an  hour  will  be  Ion* 

BQOUgh. 

SwEET-BhEADS   (-M-Jerf).    •}. 

Wash  Fery  carefully,  and  diy  with  a  linen  cloth.  Lard 
with  naxrow  strips  of  fat  salt  pork,  set  closely  together.  Use 
for  this  purpose  a  larding-needle.  Lay  the  sweet-hi-eada  in 
a  clean,  hot  frying-pan,  which  has  been  well  buttered  or 
greased,  and  cook  to  a  fine  brown,  turning  frequently  until 
the  pork  is  crisp. 

Sweet-Breads  (Broiled).  •}• 
Parboil,  rub  tliem  well  with  butter,  and  broil  on  a  clean 
gridiron.      Turn  frequently,  and  now  and  then  roll  over  in 
a  plate  containing  some  hot  melted  butter.     This  will  pre- 
vent them  from  getting  too  dry  and  hard, 

Sweet-Breads  {Sttiujed).  •{• 

"When  you  have  washed  them,  and  removed  all  bits  of 
skin  and  iatty  matter,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  heat  to  a 
boil.  Pour  off  the  hot  water,  and  cover  with  cold  until  the 
sweet-breads  are  firm.  If  you  desire  to  have  them  very 
rich,  lard  as  for  frying  before  you  put  in  the  second  water. 
They  are  more  delicate,  however,  if  the  pork  be  left  out. 
Stew  in  a  very  little  water  the  second  time.  "When  they 
are  tender,  add  for  each  sweet-bread  a  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  butter,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  with  pepper,  aud 
Bait,  and  a  little  cream.  Let  them  simmer  in  this  gravy  for 
five  minutes,  then  take  them  up.  Send  to  table  in  a  covered 
diah,  with  the  gravy  poured  over  them. 

If  you  lard  the  sweet-breads,  substitute  for  the  cream  in 


.dhyGoogle 


fl.6  graiT  a  gl«»  of  good  »ine.  la  iLi,  „».,  l»ko  IL. 
meetbi-eiids  out  before  !t  »  put  into  tie  graTj.  Bofl  up 
onc«  and  pour  over  tliem. 

SlYEET-BllEADS    {MoaslsJ). 

ParboD  and  throw  into  cold  water,  where  let  them  stand 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  change  to  more  cold  water  tor 
five  mmutos  longer.  Wipe  perfectly  dry.  La,  them  in 
jour  dnppmg-pan,  and  roast,  basting  with  butter  and  water 
until  they  begin  to  brown.  Then  withdraw  them  for  an 
instant,  roll  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cmoker-crumbs,  and  re- 
turn to  the  6re  for  ten  minutes  longer,  baating  meanwhile 
twice  with  melted  butter.  Lay  in  a  chafing-dish  wlnle  you 
add  to  the  dripping  half  a  cup  hot  water,  some  chopped 
parsley,  a  teaspoonful  browned  flour,  and  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon.  Pour  over  the  swcet-breada  before  sending  to 
t.^ble. 

jELLiEi  Veal. 
Wash  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  cut  it  mto  thioe  piecea 
Boil  It  slowly  until  the  moat  will  dip  easily  i,om  the  bones  • 
tdte  out  of  the  Uqnor;  remove  all  the  bones,  and  chop  the 
meat  fine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  two  .ballots  chopped 
fine  a.  possible,  maoe  and  thyme,  or,  if  you  like,  sage.  Put 
back  mto  the  liquor,  and  boil  until  it  is  almost  dry  «,d 
can  be  stiired  with  difficulty.  Turn  into  a  mould  until  noil 
day  Set  on  the  table  cold,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  cut 
m  slices.  The  juice  of  a  lemon,  stiiwd  in  just  hofoio  it  i. 
taken  from  the  fire,  is  an  improvement. 

Calf's-Head  in  a  Mould. 
Boil  a  cairs.head  until  tender,  tho  day  before  you  wish 
to  use  it.     Wlien  perfectly  cold,  chop— not  too  small-and 
season  to  taste  with  pepper,  salt,  mace,  and  the  juice  of  a 


.dhyGoogle 


122  COMMOH   SENSE. 

lemon.  Prepare  half  as  much  cold  bare,  fat  and  lean— also 
minced— as  you  have  of  the  diopped  cairs-heatl.  Butter  a 
mould  well,  and  Uj  m  the  bottom  a  Uyer  of  the  calfa- 
head,  then  one  of  ham,  and  so  on  untd  the  shape  is,  full, 
preying  each  !a>er  h-ud,  when  you  have  moistened  it  with 
veal  gravy  or  tho  bqu  r  m  -^hich  the  head  was-  hoikd 
Pour  more  giavy  ovei  the  top,  and  when  it  ha^  soaked  m 
well,  cover  with  a  paste  made  of  flour  and  -fl-atei  Baho 
one  hour.  Remove  the  paste  when  it  la  quite  cold,  and 
turn  out  carefully      Cut  perijeudiculaily 

This  is  quite  as  good  a  1  elish  «  hen  m  ide  of  cohl  1  oast  or 
Stewed  veal  and  ham.  It  will  keep  several  days  in  cool 
wpather. 

Yeai.  Olives  with  Oysters. 
Cnt  large,  smooth  slices  from  a  fiUet  of  veal,  or  vea^ 
chops  will  do  quite  as  well.  Trim  them  into  a  uniform 
shape  and  size,  and  spread  each  neatly  with  force-meat 
roade  of  bread-crumbs  and  a  little  chopped  pork,  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Over  this  spread  some  chopped 
oysters,  about  three  to  a  good-sized  slice  of  veal.  Boll 
them  up  carefully  and  closely,  and  pin  each  with  two  small 
tin  or  wooden  skewers.  Lay  them  in  a  diipping-pan ;  dash 
a  teacupful  of.  boiling  water  over  them,  and  roast,  basting 
at  least  twice  with  melted  butter.  When  they  ai-e  brown, 
remove  to  a  chafing-dish,  and  cover,  while  you  add  a  Uttle 
oyster-liquor  to  the  gravy  left  in  the  dripping-pan.  I-et 
this  simmer  for  three  or  four  minutes ;  thicken  with  a  tea- 
gpoonful  of  browned,  flour,  and  boil  up  once.  "Withdraw 
the  skewers  cautiously,  so  as  not  to  break  the  olives ;  pour 
the  gravy  over  and  around  them,  and  serve.  If  you  have 
no  skewers,  bind  the  oUves  with  pack-thread,  cutting  it,  of 
course,  before  sending  to  table. 
Serve  with  cranberry  jelly. 


.dhyGoogle 


Minced  Veal. 
Take  the  remains  of  a  cold  roast  of  veal  fillet,  shoulder 
itr  breast,  and  cut  aU  the  meat  from  the  bones.  Put  tiie 
latter,  with  the  outside  slices  and  tJie  gristly  pieces,  into  a 
Baucepan,  with  a  cup  of  cold  water,  some  sweet  lierbs,  pejj- 
per,  and  salt.  If  you  have  a  bit  of  bacon  convenient,  or  a 
ham-bone,  add  this  and  omit  the  salt.  Stew  all  together 
for  an  hour,  then  strain,  thicken  with  flour,  return  to  the 
fire,  and  boil  five  minutes  longer,  stirring  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter. 

Meanwhile,  mince  the  cold  veal,  and  when  the  gravy  ia 
ready  put  this  in  a  Uttle  at  a  time.  Let  it  cdmo  t  bill,  ivhen 
add  two  tahlespoonfuls  of  cream,  or  three  of  milL,  stuimg 
all  the  while.  Lastly,  squeeze  in  the  j  uice  of  a  lemon,  and  a 
moment  later  half  a  glass  of  sherry  or  Madeiia  wuie 

The  mince-meat  should  be  dry  enough  to  hei]i  mto  a 
Bhape  in  a  flat  dish  or  chafing-dish.  Lay  tiiimgles  of  but- 
tered toast  ahoiit  tho  base  of  the  mound,  and  on  the  top  a 
poached  egg. 

The  remains  of  cold  roast  beef  treated  m  this  nnnner, 
substituting  for  the  toast  balls  of  mashed  p  toto,  -Bill  mike 
a  neat  and  palatable  dish. 

Send  around  spinach  or  stewed  tomatoes  nith  minced 
Teal;  scraped  hoi-seradish  steeped  in  vinegar  with  the  1  uf 

Veai  Cutlets  A  n  Mai\teno\ 
The  cutlets  should  be  nearly  three  quirfers  tf  an  inch 
thick,  ajid  trim  in  shape.  Dip  each  m  beaten  egg,  then 
into  pounded  cracker  which  has  been  seasoned  with  jow 
dered  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  and  salt.  \\  la]  each  cutlet  m  a 
half-sheet  of  note  or  letter  paper,  well  butt^^red  ,  Uy  tliem 
upon  a  buttored  gridiron  and  broil  ovei  ■i  clear  fire  tnitun" 
often  and  dexterously.     Youcansecure  the]  ipers  by  fimc 


.dhyGoogle 


124  COKMOK  SISfSE. 

ing  the  ends,  and  twisting  these  after  the  cutlets  ai«  put  iji 
this  ia  neater  than  to  pin  theia  together.  In  trying  this 
dish  for  the  first  time,  have  ready  a  sufficient  number  of 
duplicate  papers  in  a  clean,  hot  disli.  If  your  ewvelopes  are 
mueh  soiled  or  darkened  while  the  eutlets  are  broiling, 
transfer  quickly  when  done  to  the  clean  warm  ones,  twist 
the  ends,  and  serve.  Cutlets  prepai'cd  in  this  manner  are 
sent  to  table  in  tlieir  cloaks,  ranged  symmetrically  ujion  a 
hot  chafing-dish. 

The  expedient  of  the  clean  papers  is  a  "  tiitk  oi  the 
trade,"  amateur  housewives  will  observe  nith  satisfaction. 
Epicures  profess  to  eiyoy  veal  cooked  in  covers  fai  moie 
than  when  the  flavor  and  juices  escape  in  bioiling  without 
them.  Empty  every  drop  of  gravy  froiu  the  >ioiled  p  ipe"« 
into  the  clean  over  the  cutlets. 

Ckoqubttes  op  Calf's  Bhaiss. 

Wash  the  brains  very  thoroughly  until  they  are  free  from 
membranous  matter  and  perfectly  white.  Beat  them 
smooth ;  season  with  a  pinch  of  powdered  sage,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  fine  bread-crumbs  moistened 
with  milk,  and  a  beaten  egg.  Boll  into  balls  with  floured 
hands,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  cracker-cnimlB,  and  fry  in 
butter  or  veal-drippings. 

These  mate  a  pleasant  accompaniment  to  boiled  spinach. 
Heap  the  vegetable  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  arrange  the 
balls  about  it,  and  give  one  to  each  pei-son  who  wishes 
spinach. 

Calf's  Liver  {Roasted). 

Soak  the  lirer  in  salt  and  water  an  hour  to  draw  out  the 
lilood.  Wipe  perfectly  dry,  and  stuff  with  a  forcemeat 
made  of  bread-crumbs,  two  shoes  of  fat  salt  j)Ork,  chopped 
smaU,  a  sliallot,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg;  swuet  marjoram 


.dhyGoogle 


md  tliyme,  and,  if  you  choose,  a  Httle  sage.  Moisten  ihir 
witli  butter  melted  in  a  very  little  hot  water,  and  two  raw 
eggs,  well  bciteo.  In  order  to  get  this  into  the  liver,  make 
an  incision  with  a  narrow  sharp  knife,  and  without  en- 
larging the  aperture  where  the  blade  entered,  move  tlifi 
point  dexterously  to  and  fro,  to  enlarge  the  cavity  inside 
Stuff  this  fuU  of  tlie  forcemeat,  aew  or  skewer  up  thoontei 
oiifice;  lard  with  strips  of  saJt  pork,  and  roast  for  an  hour, 
basting  twice  with  butter  and  water,  afterward  with  the 
giavy  m  the  dripping-pan.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the  Uvei 
when  done. 

Koasted  liver  is  very  good  cold,  cut  into  slices  like  tongue 

Calf's  Liver  (IHeO). 

Slice  the  liver  smoothly,  and  lay  in  salt  and  water  to 
draw  out  the  blood.  Lai-J  each  slice,  when  you  have  wiped 
it  dry,  with  slices  of  iat  salt  pork,  drawn  through  at  regular 
distances,  and  projecting  slightly  on  each  side.  Lay  in  a 
clean  frying-pan  and  fiy  brown.  When  done,  take  out  the 
slices,  ai-i-ange  them  neatly  on  a  hot  dish,  aaid  set  aside  to 
keep  warm.  Add  to  the  gravy  in  the  frying-pan  a  chopped 
omon,  a  half-cup  of  hot  water,  pepper,  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  thicken  with  hrown  flour.  Boil  up  well,  run  through 
a  cullender  to  remove  the  onion  and  the  bits  of  crisped 
pork  that  may  have  been  broken  off  in  cooking,  pour  over 
the  liver,  and  serve  hot. 

Pigs'  Hvers  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

Caip's  Livee  {Sfewe^. 

Slice  the  liver  and  lay  in  salt  and  wa,ter  an  hour.     Then 

cnt  into  dice  and  put  over  the  fire,  with  enough  cold  watet 

to   cover  it   weU.      Cover   and  stew  steadily  for  an  hour. 

when  adil  salt,  po]ip;r,  a  httle  m 


it  marjoram,  jiars 


.yGoogle 


126  COMMOH    SEKSB. 

ioy,  anJ  a  teaspoonful  Worcestershire  sauce.  Stew  again 
steadily,  not  fast,  for  half  an  hour  longer,  when  put  in  a 
tahle-apoonful  of  butter,  two  of  browned  floui- — wet  witii 
cold  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice  and  one  of  cui'- 
rant  jelly.  Boil  five  minutes  longer,  and  dish.  A  little 
wine  is  am  improvement. 

Or, 
Put  ill  with  the  liver-dice  some  of  salt  pork — say  a  hand- 
ful—and when  you  season,  a,  chopped  onion,  and  omit  the 
jelly  at  the  last,  substituting  some  tomato  catsup. 

Imitation  PAifia  de  Poib  Geas.  ►£■ 
Boil  a  calf's  liver  until  very  tender  in  water  that  haa 
been  slightly  salted,  ajid  in  another  vessel  a  nice  calf's 
tongue.  It  is  best  to  do  this  tiie  day  before  you  make 
jouipaie,  as  they  should  be  not  only  cold,  but  fii-m  when 
used.  Cut  the  Kver  into  bits,  and  rub  these  gradually  to  a 
smooth  paste  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  moistening,  as  yon 
go  on,  with  melted  butter.  Work  into  this  paste,  which 
should  be  quite  soft,  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pep- 
per, or  twice  the  quantity  of  white,  or  black,  half  a  grated 
nutmeg,  a  little  cJoves,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  salt  to  taste,  a  full  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and 
a  tablespoonfvd  of  boiling  water,  in  which  a  minced  onion 
lias  been  steeped  until  the  flavor  is  extracted.  Work  all 
together  thoroughly,  and  pack  in  jelly-jars  with  air-tight 
covers,  or,  if  you  have  them,  in  pdte-jaxB.  They  give  a 
foreign  air  to  the  compound,  and  aid  imagination  in  deceiv- 
ing the  palate.  Butter  the  inside  of  tiie  jars  well,  and 
pack  the  p&te  very  hard,  inserting  here  and  there  square 
and  triangular  bits  of  the  tongue,  which  should  be  pared 
and  cut  up  for  this  purpose.  These  simulate  the  tmflles  im 
bedded  in  the  genuine  pdth  from  Strasbourg  and  elsewhera 


.dhyGoogle 


VEAL.  121 

WTien  the  jar  is  packed,  and  smooth  as  marhle  on  the  sur- 
facOj  cover  with  melted  butter.  Let  this  liarden,  put  oi* 
the  lid,  .and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  In  winter  it  wil 
keep  for  weeks,  and  ia  ^ery  nice  for  Iwnclieon  or  tea.  Maks 
into  sandwiches,  or  set  on  in  the  jars,  if  they  are  neat  and 
ornamental. 

The  resemblance  in  ta^te  to  the  real  pati  de  foie  qra* 
ia  reniaikable,  and  the  domestic  article  is  poimlar  with  the 
lovers  of  that  delicacy.  Pigs'  livers  make  a  very  ^\v  p&tL 
If  you  can  procure  the  livei-s  of  several  fowls  and  treat  as 
above,  substituting  bits  of  the  iniiide  of  the  gizzard  for  truf- 
fles, you  will  find  the  riisult  even  more  satiafactoiy. 

Veai  MarbIjE. 
Boil  a  beef-tongue  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  used,  and  a 
lite  number  of  pounds  of  lean  veal ;  or,  the  lean  of  a  well- 
cooked  fillet  will  do  as  well.  Grind  first  one,  then  the 
other,  in  a' sausage-cutter,  keeping  them  in  separate  vessels 
until  you  are  ready  to  pack.  If  you  have  no  machine  for 
this  puqKise,  chop  very  fine.  Season  the  tongue  with  pep- 
per, powdered  sweet  herbs,  a  teaapoonful  of  made  mustard, 
a  little  nutmeg,  and  cloves— just  a  pinch  of  each ;  the  veal 
in  like  maimer,  with  the  addition  of  salt.  Pack  in  alter- 
nate spoonfuls,  irregularly  as  possible,  in  cups,  bowis,  or 
jars  which  Lave  been  well  buttered.  Press  very  hard  as 
you  go  oil,  smooth  the  top,  and  cover  with  melted  butter. 
When  this  cools,  close  t!ie  cans,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry. 
place.  Turn  out  whole,  or  cut  in  slices  for  tea.  It  is  a 
pretty  and  savory  relish,  garnished  with  parsley  or  tha 
blanched  tops  of  celeiy. 

You  can  use  ground  ham.  instead  of  tongue.  It  is  hard 
ly  so  good,  but  is  more  economical. 


.dhyGoogle 


COMUOIT  BEXSE. 


POKK. 


At  the  Sontli,  where,  in  spite  of  the  warm  climate,  iLf 
consumption  of  pork  is  double  that  of  the  North,  the  full- 
grown  hog  is  seldom  represented  by  any  of  his  parts  at  the 
table,  fresh  or  pickled,  nnlesa  it  be  during  killing-time  ; 
than  fresh  spare-ribs,  chine,  and  steak,  with  other  succu- 
lent bits,  are  welcome  upon  the  choicest  bills  of  fare.  The 
rest  of  the  animal^ham,  shoulders,  and  middlings — is  con- 
signed to  tlie  packing-barrel,  and  ultimately  to  the  smoke- 
house. But,  in  cool  weather,  "shoat"^ — i.  e.,  pig  under 
six  months  of  age-^is  abundantly  displayed  in  market,  and 
highly  esteemed  by  all  classes.  The  meat  is  fine  and  sweet, 
and,  unless  too  fat,  nearly  as  dehcate  as  that  of  chicken — 
a  very  difierent  looking  ajid  tasting  diah  from  the  gross, 
oleaginous  joints  and  "chunks"  offered  for  sale  in  many 
other  regions  as  "  nice  young  pork,"  Those  of  my  read- 
ers who  can  command  "  shoat  "  are  to  be  heartily  congratu- 
lated. Those  whose  butchers  dispense  only  portions  of  the 
mature  porker  will  do  well,  in  my  opinion,  if  they  rarely 
admit  him  to  their  families  before  he  has  been  salted,  and 
been  thei-eby  piirged  of  many  unwholesome  properties. 
Few  stomachs,  save  those  of  out-door  laboi'crs,  can  digest 
the  fresh  meat  of  a  two  or  tliree,  or  even  one  year  old  hog. 
This  is  the  truthful,  but,  to  unaccustomed  ears,  offensive 
name  for  him  at  the  South  and  West,  where  his  qualities 
and  habits  are  best  known. 

The  parts  of  a  properly  dissected  hog  are  the  hams, 
shoulders,  griskin  or  chine,  the  loin,  middlings,  spare-ribs, 
head,  feet,  liver,  and  haslet.  The  choice  portions  are  hams, 
shoulders,  and,  for  roasting,  the  loin.  All  hogs  should  be 
kept  up  and  well  fed  for  three  weeks,  at  least,  before  they 
ftre  killed ;  tlieir  styes  be  frequently  cleaned,  and  furnished 
with  abundance  of  water,  renewed  every  day.     Sir  Gruntei 


;dhyGoogle 


»oiild  bo  a  more  dmlj  matare  if  io  ,ore  aUowed  more 
extomive  w.ter  priviloge,.     If  it  „„  p„siMe-<md  ia 
the  comtry  Hi,  nay  somelimes  be  done-to  build  ti,  pea 
on  the  b™li  of  a  rnimiiig  rtrem,  he  -»ouid  .peedily  radeon 
h,.  chmaetor  from  the  st.i»  c.st  upon  it  by  the  popular 
verfict,  aud  the  .uperior  quality  of  the  mait  repay  the 
thoughtful  kindness   of  his  owner.     It  is  a  disgrace   to 
humaidty,  hardly  second  t»  the  barbarities  of  swill-mili 
manuactorioa,  this  compulsory  filth  of  any  domestic  ani- 
mal.    Those  who,  HJio  ntyseH  have  been  loathing  mtnesses 
of  the  pig-pens  upon  the  premises  of  weU-to-do  farmers— 
the  reoeptaoles  of  the  vilest  slops  and  offal,  never  cleaned 
except  during  the  yearly  removal  of  manure  from  barn- 
yard  to   «eId-«mnot  marvel   at  the   growing  prejudice 
agamst  pork  in  ,11  it,  varieties  that  pcrv«Ies  our  best 
classes.     We  feed  the  hog  with  the  ofiscourings  (this  is 
literal)  of  house,  garden,  and  tabic;  bed  him  in  mire  and 
swell  hhu  with  acetous  fcrmentarion,  not  to  say  activi  do 
composition,  and  then  abnse  him  for  being  what  we  hav. 
made  him.     I  am  persuaded— and  wiser  people  than  I  de- 
Clare— that  hog-scrofula  and  cholera,  aud  the  rest  of  the 
train  of  fleshly  ills  that  are  the  terror  of  pork-raisers,  have, 
one  and  all,  their  root  in  this  unseemly  inhumanity.     Ea' 
chew  fresh  pork  wc  may,  but  wo  cannot  disponso  with  hams 
shouldeis,  and,  mo.t  valuable  of  all  to  tho  cook,  lard  and 
pickled  pork     Eeal  sausage,  pot  eme  and  homo-made,  is  still 
sweet  and  pleasant  to  the  unpampered  palato ;  and  of  roast 
pig,  the  gentlest  and  most  graul  of  English  essayist,  did 
not  disihiin  to  become  the  eulogist      In  memory  of  his  nso- 
fulness,  m  bebot  of  tlio  hoalthfuhiess  which  should  he  his 
birthright,  and  the  safeguard  ol  his  consumers,  let  us  freat 
Bristle  »ell-I  ,lo  not  saj  pbilosophicany,  but  sensibly  and 
kindly 

A  pig  should  not  be  allowed  to  eat  anything  for  twenty 

HostcdhyGoOgle 


130  COMMON    8EN8E. 

four  tours  beft  re  lie  is  killed.  After  lie  is  butchered,  great 
care  should  be  exercised  to  keep  the  pork  from  tainting  J 
it  spoils  more  readily,  when  fresh,  than  any  other  meat 
Cook  all  kinds  of  pork  thoroughly.  When  underdone  ii 
is  not  only  unpalatable,  hut  exceedingly  unwholesome. 

KoAST  Leg  op  Pouk. 
One  weigliing  about  seven  pounds  is  enough,  even  for  a 
large  family.  If  the  pig  is  young,  the  leg  will  be  even 
smaller.  Score  the  skin  in  squares,  or  parallel  lines  tun- 
ning from  side  to  side,  for  the  conveniecce  of  the  carver. 
Put  it  down  to  roast  with  a  very  little  watfer  in  the  pan  be- 
low. Heat  gradually  until  the  fat  begins  to  ooae  from  the 
meat,  when  quicken  the  fire  to  a  red,  steady  glow.  Bast« 
only  with  its  own  gravy,  and  do  this  often,  that  the  skin 
may  not  be  hard  or  tough.  When  done  tfike  it  up,  skim 
the  gravy  thoroughly,  put  in  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water, 
thicken  vrith  brown  flour,  add  pepper,  salt,  aiid  tlie  juice  of 
a  lemon,  and  serve  in  a  boat. 

Or, 
If  the  joint  be  that  of  a  full-grown  hog,  rub  into  the  top, 
after  scoring  it  deeply,  a  force-raeat  of  bread-crumbs  season- 
ed with  sage  and  ckopped  omon,  wet  with  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  or  a  very  little  vinegar ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Rub  this  in  hard  until  the  cracks  are  filled.  Witli  a  sharp 
knife  make  incisions  close  to  the  knuckle-bone,  and  stuff 
with  the  forcemeat,  tying  a  string  tightly  about  it  afterward, 
to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  seasoning.  Hub  over  once  with 
butter,  when  the  meat  is  warm  throughout ;  then  baste  with 
the  fat.  Skim  all  the  iat  from  the  drippings  that  can  be  re- 
moved before  making  the  gravy. 

Send  around  tomato  or  apple  sauce,  and  pickles,  witb 
roast  pork. 


.dhyGoogle 


POEK.  131 

Loin  of  roRic. 

Cook  as  you  would  a  leg,  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  a 
pouuii  in  roasting.  This  is  a  good  rule  for  fi-esli  porkj  the 
moat  being  coarser  and  of  closer  grain  tlian  arc  more  deli 
cat«  meats. 

A  shoulder  is  roasted  in  the  same  way. 

Roast  Spare-Rib. 

When  first  put  down  to  the  fire,  cover  with  a  greased 
paper  untU  it  is  half  done.  Eemove  it  then,  and  dredge 
Trith  flour.  A  few  minutes  later,  bast«  once  with  butter, 
and  aftei-ward,  eveiy  little  while,  with  its  own  gravy,  Thia 
is  necessary,  the  spare-rib  being  a  very  dry  piece.  Just 
before  you  take  it  up,  strew  over  the  surface  thickly  with 
fine  bread-crumbs  seasoned  with  powdered  sage,  pepper,  and 
Bait,  and  a  small  onion  minced  into  almost  invisible  bits. 
Let  it  cook  five  minutes  and  baste  once  more  with  butter, 
Skiiu  the  gravy,  add  a  half-cupfiil  of  hot  water,  thicken  with 
brown  flour,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  strain,  and 
pour  over  the  meat  in  the  dish. 

Send  tomato  catsup  ai-ound  with  it,  or  if  you  prefer, 
put  a  libei-al  spoonful  in  the  gravy,  after  it  is  straineii. 

EOAST   CuiNE, 

A  chine  is  treated  precisely  as  is  tlie  spare-rib,  except 
that  the  strip  of  skin  running  along  the  back  is  scored  close- 
ly. If  you  wish,  you  can  omit  the  bread-crumb  crust,  the 
onion  and  sage.  In  carving,  cut  thin  hoiizontal  slices  from 
the  ribs.  Chine  is  best  cold.  The  meat  nest  the  ribs  ia 
delicious  when  scraped  off  and  made  into  sandwiches,  oi 
laid  upon  buttered  toast. 

Or, 

You  can  wash  the  chine  over  with  beaten  e^,  dredge 
with  cracker-crumbs,   seasoned   witli   salt   and  pejsper,  and 


.dhyGoogle 


J  32  COMMOld    8EMSE. 

toast,  basting  with  butter  and  ■water  once  when  the  meat  ii 
heated  through,  afterward  with  its  own  gi'avy.  This  ia  A 
palatable  supper-dish  when  cold.  Garnish  with  cucumber 
pickles  cut  in  round  slices. 

ROABT    PiQ. 

A  month-old  pig,  if  it  be  well-grown  and  plump,  is  best 
for  this  purpose.  It  is  hardly  possible  that  any  lady-hoiiso- 
keeper  wiO  ever  be  called  upon  to  do  the  butcher's  work 
upon  the  bodies  of  full-grown  hogs,  or  even  ''  ahoat " — a 
task  that  requires  the  use  of  hatcliet  or  cleaver.  It  is  well 
that  slie  should  know  liow  to  clean  and  dress  the  baby  pig, 
■which  is  not  larger  than  a  Thanksgiving  turkey. 

As  soon  as  it  is  really  cold,  make  ready  a  lai^e  boiler  of 
scalding  water.  Lay  the  pig  in  cold  water  for  fifteen  min- 
■utes ;  then,  holding  it  by  the  hind  leg,  plunge  it  into  the 
boiling  water,  and  shake  it  about  violently  until  you  can 
pull  the  hair  off  by  the  handful.  Take  it  out,  wipe  it  dry, 
and  with  a  crash  cloth  or  whisk  broom  rub  the  hair  off, 
brushing  from  the  tail  to  the  head,  until  the  skin  is  per- 
fectly clean.  Gut  it  open,  take  out  the  entrails,  and  wash 
\ery  thoroughly  with  cold  water,  then  vrith  soda  and  water, 
to  remove  any  unpleasant  odor ;  next  with  salt  and  water. 
Kinse  with  fair  water  and  ■wipe  inside.  Then  wrap  in  a 
wet  cloth,  and  keep  this  saturated  with  cold  water  until 
you  are  ready  to  stuff  it.  If  these  directions  be  followed 
implicitly,  the  pig  ^vill  be  fair  and  white,  as  if  intrusted  to 
a  professional  butcher. 

For  stuffing,  take  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  half  a 
chopped  onion,  two  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage,  three  ta- 
bleapoonfuls  melt«d  butter,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  half  a 
grated  nutmeg,  half  a  teaspoonfui  of  salt,  two  well-beaten 
eggs.  Mix  all  these  ingredients,  except  the  e^,  together, 
incorjwrnting  them  well ;  moisten  with  half  a  cup  of  waiTO 


.dhyGoogle 


POKK  139 

water  (or  milk),  beat  in  the  eggs,  and  stuff  the  pig  into  his 
niLtural  size  and  shape.  Sew  him  up,  and  bend  his  foie- 
feet  backT-ard,  his  hind-feet  forward,  uuder  and  close  to  the 
body,  and  skewering  them  into  the  proper  position.  Drj 
it  well,  and  dredge  mth  flour.  Put  it  to  roast  with  a  little 
hot  water,  sKghtly  salted,  in  the  dripping-pau.  Baste  with 
butter  and  water  three  times,  as  the  pig  gradually  warms, 
afterward  with  the  dripping.  When  it  begins  to  smoke  oi 
steam,  rub  it  over,  every  five  minutes  or  so,  with  a  cloth 
dipped  in  melted  butter.  Do  not  omit  this  precaution  if 
you  would  have  the  skin  tender  and  soft  after  it  begins  to 
brown.  A  month-old  pig  will  require  about  an  hour  and 
three  quai-ters  or  two  hours— sometimes  longer — to  roast, 
if  the  fire  be  brisk  and  steady. 

Should  you  or  your  guests  dislike  onion,  prepare  yoiir 
stuffing  without  it.  Tlie  following  is  a  good  receipt  for 
rich  and  savory  force-meat  for  a  pig ; — - 

One  cup  of  bread-crumbs,  an  ounce  of  suet,  a  bunch  of 
parsley  minced  fine,  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage,  pepper, 
salt,  and  nutmeg,  a  litUe  thyme,  half  a  glass  Madeira  or 
sherry,  juice  of  a  lemon,  two  tablespoonfula  melted  butter, 
a  cup  of  oyster-liquor,  and  two  well-beaten  e^s.  For  a 
Christmas  pig,  it  is  worth  one's  while  to  take  the  trouble 
to  prepare  thia  stuffing. 

If  your  pig  is  large,  you  can  cut  off  his  head  and  split 
him  down  the  back  before  sending  to  table.  Do  this  with 
a  sharp  knife,  and  lay  the  backs  together..  But  it  is  a 
pity  !  I  have  before  me  now  the  vision  of  a  pig  I  once 
saw  served  whole  on  the  table  of  a  friend,  that  forbids  me 
ever  to  mutilate  the  innocent  be',  .re  the  guests  have  a 
cliance  to  feast  their  eyes  upon  H-o  goodly  picture.  He 
was  done  to  a  turn- — a  rich,  even  biown,  without  a  seam  or 
crack  from  head  to  tail,  and  he  knelt  in  a  bed  of  deep- 
green  parsley,  alternately  with  b-ioehes  of  wliitish-"reer 


.dhyGoogle 


13i  COMMON   SENSE. 

celery  tops  (tho  inner  and  tender  leaves)  ;  a  garland  of  tin 
same  was  about  hia  neck,  and  in  his  moutli  was  a  tuft  of 
white  cauliflower,  surrouuded  by  a  setting  of  (mrled  para- 
ley,  Veiy  simple,  you  see;  but  I  never  beheld  a  moi-e 
ornamental  roast. 

Skim  your  gravy  well ;  add  &  little  hot  water,  thicken 
with  brown  flour,  boil  up  once,  strain,  and,  when  you  have 
added  half  a  glaaa  of  wine  and  half  thi  juice  of  a  lemon, 
Berve  in  a  tureen. 

In  carving  the  pig,  cut  off  the  head  first;  then  split 
down  the  back,  take  off  hams  and  shoulders,  and  separate  ■ 
the  ribs.      Serve  some  of  the  dressing  to  each  person, 

I  have  been  thus  minute  iu  describing  the  preparation 
of  this  holiday  dish,  because  it  is  erroneously  considered  a 
difficult  task.  Any  cook  with  a  moderate  degree  of  judg- 
ment and  experience  can  undertake  it  with  a  reasonable 
expectation  of  success. 

Pork  Steaks. 
Thoso  from  the  loin  are  best,  but  they  can  be  cut  from 
the  neck.  Kemove  the  skin  and  trim  neatly.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  Some  excel- 
lent housewives  broil  without  seasoning,  adding  pepper, 
salt,  a  pinch  of  sage,  another  of  minced  onion,  and  a  lump 
of  butter  after  they  are  put  into  the  hot  dish.  Then  cover 
closely  and  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  until  the  aromf 
of  the  condiments  flavors  tho  meat.  Try  tiiis  method. 
You  can  cook  sjiare-rib  in  t!ie  same  manner. 

Poke  Chops. 

Eemove  the  skin,  tiim  them,  and  dip  fii-st  in  beaten 

egg,  then   in  ciacker-ciumbs  seasoned  with   salt,  pepper, 

minced  onion,  and  a  litth  s^ge      Fry  in  hot  lard  or  drip 

jiings  twenty  or  thirty  mjiiute*;,  tuiuing  often.     The  gravj 


.dhyGoogle 


POBK.  ISS 

of  this  dish  is  usually  too  rich  or  fat  to  accompany  tli« 
meat. 

Fork  cutlets  are  cooked  in  like  manner.  Send  ajiple- 
Banco  to  the  tahlc  with  ttem,  and  season  with  tomato  cat- 

Stewed  Pork. 

Take  some  tolerably  lean  slices  from  the  leg,  or  bita 
left  fi-om  trimming  the  various  pieces  into  shape.  Cut  into 
diue  an  inch  square,  put  into  a  pot  ■with  enough  cold  water 
to  cover  them,  and  stew  gently  for  tliree-quartcrs  of  an 
hour,  closely  covered.  Meanwhile  parboil  half  a  dozen  Irish 
potatoes,  cut  in  thick  slices,  in  another  vessel.  When  the 
pork  has  stewed  the  allotted  time,  tlrain  off  the  water 
from  these  and  add  to  the  meat.  Season  with  pepper,  salt. 
Si  minced  shallot,  a  spoonful  of  pungent  catsup,  and  a  bunch 
of  ai'omatic  herbs.  Cover  again,  and  stew  twenty  minutes 
longer,  or  until  the  meat  is  tender  throughout. 

If  your  meat  be  not  too  fat,  this  stew  will  be  very  good, 
especially  on  a  coid  day. 

You  can  stew  outlets  in  the  same  way. 

Pic's  Head  (^Roasted). 
Take  the  head  of  a  half-grown  pig ;  clean  and  split  it, 
taking  out  the  brains  and  setting  these  aside  in  a  cool  place. 
Paahoil  the  head  in  salted  water,  drain  off  this,  wipe  the 
head  dry,  and  wash  all  over  with  beaten  egg ;  dredge  thickly 
with  bread-crumbs,  seasoned  with  pepper,  sage,  and  onion, 
and  loast,  basting  twice  with  butter  and  wat«r ;  then  with 
the  liquor  in  which  the  head  was  boiled;  at  last  with  the 
gravy  that  runs  from  the  meat.  "Wash  the  brains  in  sev- 
eral waters  until  they  are  white ;  beat  to  a  smooth  paste, 
add  one-quarter  part  fine  bread-crumbs,  pepper,  and  salt ; 
make  into  balls,  binding  with  a  beaten  egg ;  roll  in  flour 
and  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  light  brown,      Arrange  about  the 


.dhyGoogle 


136  COMMON   BENBE. 

head  when  it  is  dished.  Skim  the  gravy  left  in  the  drip 
pingpan,  thicken  with  brown  flour,  add  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  and  hoil  up  once.     Pour  it  over  the  head. 

Pig's  Head  with  Liver  and  Heart  (Stewed). 
Clean  and  split  the  head,  taking  out  the  brains  and  set- 
ting aside.  Put  the  head  in  a  pot  with  water  enough  to 
cover  it  and  parboil  it.  Have  ready  another  pot  with  the 
liver  and  heart,  cut  into  inch-long  pieces,  stewed  in  just 
enough  water  to  keep  them  from  scorching.  When  the 
head  is  half  done,  add  the  entire  contents  of  the  second  ves- 
sel to  the  fii-st,  ajid  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  onion, 
parsley,  and  sage.  Cover  and  stew  until  the  head  is  very 
tender,  when  take  it  out  and  lay  in  the  middle  of  a  flat  dish. 
"With  a  perforated  skinmier  remove  the  liver  and  heart  and 
spread  abowt  tJie  head,  surrounding,  but  not  coveiing  it 
Sti'ain  the  gravy  and  return  to  the  pot,  thicken  with 
browned  flour,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  drop 
in  carefully  force-meat  balls  of  the  brains,  prepared  accord 
ing  to  the  foregoing  receipt  and  fried  a  light  brown.  BoU 
once  and  pour  about  the  head,  arranging  the  balls  upon  it, 
to  cover  th     ^  1 1  betw    n  the  t         d       f  th    head. 

You  m  y    n];  tl       di  h   wh    !  y  savory,  by 

boiling  pi      f  ]  f    t  w  th  th     h      I  unt  1  the  meat 

will  slip  f    m  th    b  T  k     th  m  f    m  th     1  quor,  cut 

off  and  h  p  tl  n  t  1  j  t  mt  th  U  g  pot  when 
you  add  th    1  t 

Souse  op  Pigs'  Ears  akd  Feet, 
Clean  the  ears  and  feet  well;  cover  them  with  cold 
water  slightly  salted,  and  boil  until  tender.  Pack  in  stone 
jars  while  hot,  and  cover  while  you  make  ready  the  pickle. 
To  half  a  gallon  of  good  cider  vinegar  allow  half  a  cup  ol 
white  sugar,  three  dozen  whole  black  pcjiper,  a  dozen  blades 


.dhyGoogle 


POEK.  137 

of  mace,  and  a  dozen  cloves.  Boil  tliia  one  minute,  taking 
care  tliat  it  really  boils,  and  pour  wliiJo  hot  over  tie  stil 
warm  feet  and  ears.  It  wiU  be  ready  to  nse  in  two  days, 
and  will  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place  two  montlia. 

If  you  wisb  it  for  breakfast,  make  a  batter  of  one  eg^ 
one  cup  of  milk,  salt  to  taste  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
with  enougli  flour  for  a  thin  muffin-batter;  dip  each  piece 
in  this,  and  fry  in  hoii  lai'd  or  dripping.  Or  dip  each  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  pounded  cracker,  before  frying. 

Souae  is  also  good  eatea  cold,  especially  the  feet. 

Head-Cueese  {or  Sotise). 
This  is  made  of  the  head,  ears,  and  tongue.  Boil  them 
in  salted  water  until  very  tender.  Strip  the  meat  from  the 
bones  and  chop  fine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  sage,  sweet 
marjoram,  a  little  powdered  cloves,  and  half  a  cup  of  strong 
Tinegar.  Mix  all  together  thoroughly,  taste  to  see  that  it 
is  flavored  sufficiently,  remembering  that  the  spice  tends  to 
keep  it,  and  pack  hard  in  moulds  or  howls,  interspersing  the 
layers  with  bits  of  the  tongue  cut  in  oblongs,  squares,  and 
triangles  not  less  than  an  inch  in  length.  Press  down  and 
keep  tke  meat  in  shape  by  putting  a  plate  on  the  top  of  each 
mould  (first  wetting  the  plate)  ai.d  a  weight  upon  this.  In 
two  days  the  cheese  will  be  ready  for  use.  Turn  out  from 
the  shapes  as  you  wish  to  use  it;  or,  should  you  desire  to 
keep  it  several  weeks,  take  the  cheese  from  the  moulds  and 
iromerse  in  cold  vinegar  in  stone  jars.  This  wUi  preserve 
it  admirably,  ar.d  yon  have  only  to  pare  away  the  outside, 
should  it  be  too  acid  for  your  taste. 

This  is  generally  eaten  cold  for  tea,  with  vinegar  and 
mustard;  but  it  is  very  nice  cut  in  slices,  seasoned  slightlj 
with  mustard,  and  warmed  in  a  frying-pan  with  enougl*  but 
ter  to  prevent  burning.  Or,  you  may  dip  in  beaten  egg, 
tben  cracker-crumbs,  ajid  fiy  for  breakfast. 


.dhyGoogle 


1^8  COMMOS    BENEE. 

If  i!ie  tongue  ia  arranged  jiidiciouiily,  the  slices  will  b« 
[  icUJIy  marbled. 

Pork  Pot-pie. 

Yon  can  make  this  of  lean  jiork  cut  from  any  part  of 
ilie  pig,  but  tte  cliine  is  best.  Crack  tlie  bones  well,  and 
cut  up  the  chine  into  rihlettes  two  inches  long.  Line  your 
pot,  which  should  be  round  at  the  bottom  and  well  greased, 
with  a  good  light  paste  ;  put  in  the  meat,  then  a  layer  of 
parboiled  potatoes,  split  in  half,  seasoning  with  pepper  and 
Bait  as  you  go  on.  When  the  pot  is  nearly  full,  pour  in  a 
quart  of  cold  water  and  put  on  the  upper  crust,  cutting  a 
small  round  hole  out  of  the  middle,  through  which  yon  can 
add  hot  water  should  the  gravy  boil  away  too  fast,  Slipa 
of  paste  may  also  be  strewed  among  the  meat  ajid  potatoes. 
Put  on  the  pot-lid,  and  boil  from  one  hour  and  a  half  to 
two  hours.  "When  done,  remove  the  iipper  crust  carefully, 
turn  out  the  meat  and  gravy  into  a  bowl,  that  you  may 
get  at  the  lower.  Lay  this  upon  a  hot  dish,  put  the  meat, 
etc.,  in  order  upon  it,  pour  the  gi"avy  over  it,  and  cover  with 
the  top  crust.  This  can  be  browned  with  a  red-hot  shovel, 
or  oven-lid. 

ChESHIKE   I'OKK-PIE. 

Cut  two  or  three  pounds  of  lean  fresh  pork  into  strips 
as  long  and  as  wide  as  your  middle  finger.  line  a  buttered 
dish  with  puff-paste  ;  put  in  a  layer  of  pork  seasoned  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg  or  mace  ;  next  a  layer  of  juicy  ap. 
pies,  sliced  and  covered  with  about  an  ounce  of  white  sugar ; 
then  more  pork,  and  so  on  until  you  are  ready  for  the  paste 
cover,  when  pour  in  half  a  ]>int  of  sweet  cider  or  wine,  and 
Btick  bits  of  butter  all  over  the  top.  Cover  with  a  thick 
lid  of  puff-paste,  cut  a  slit  in  the  top,  brush  over  ■with 
beaten  egg,  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Tliis  is  an  English  dish,  and  is  famous  in  the  region  fronj 


.dhyGoogle 


whieli  it  takes  its  name.     It  is  mucli  liked  by  those  whc 
h.ive  fried,  it,  and  is  considered  by  some  to  be  equal  to  our 

Yorkshire  pork-pio  is  made  in  the  sajne  way,  with  tli« 
omission  of  the  apples,  sugar,  and  nutmeg,  ajid  the  addition 
of  sage  to  the  seasoning, 

SAUSAfiE  (iVo.  1). 
6  lbs.  leaa  fi'osh  pork. 
3    "    fat       "         " 
12  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage. 
6  "  black  pepper. 

6  '•  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  powdered  mace. 
2  "  "         cloves. 

1  grated  nutmeg. 

Grind  the  meat,  fat  and  lean,  in  a  sausage-mill,  or  chop 
it  very  fiue.  The  mill  is  better,  and  the  grinding  does  not 
occupy  one-tenth  of  the  time  that  chopping  does,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  labor.  One  can  be  bought  for  three  or  four 
dollars,  and  will  well  repay  the  purchaser.  Mix  the  sear- 
soning  in  'with  your  hands,  taste,  to  be  sure  all  is  right,  and 
pack  down  in  stone  jars,  pouring  melted  lard  on  top.  An- 
other good  way  of  preserving  them  is,  to  make  long  narrow 
bags  of  stout  muslhi,  large  enough  to  contain,  each,  enough 
sausage  for  a  family  dish.  Fiil  these  with  the  meat,  dip  in 
melted  lard,  and  hang  from  the  beams  of  the  celbir. 

If  you  wish  to  pack  in  the  intestines  of  the  hog,  they 
shoiild  oe  carefully  prepared  as  follows :  Empty  them,  cut 
them  in  lengths,  and  lay  for  two  days  in  salt  and  water. 
Turn  them  inside  out,  and  lay  in  soak  one  day  longer.  Serapa 
them,  rinse  well  in  soda  and  water,  wipe,  and  blow  into  one 
•ind,  having  tied  \ip  the  otlier  with  a  bit  of  twine.     If  they 


.dhyGoogle 


14C'  COMMOH    6ENSE. 

are  whole  and  clear,  stuff  with  the  meat ;  tie  up  and  hang 
ill  the  store-room  or  cellar, 

Tliese  are  fried  iu  the  cases,  in  a  clean,  dry  frying-pan, 
until  brown.  If  you  have  the  sausage-meat  in  bulk,  make 
into  small,  round  flat  cakes,  and  fry  in  the  same  way.  Some 
dip  in  egg  and  pounded  cracker — others  roll  in  Hour  before 
cooking.  Tlieir  own  fiit  will  cook  them.  Send  to  table 
dry  and  hot,  but  do  not  let  them  fry  hard.  When  one  side 
is  done,  turn  the  other.  The  firo  should  be  very  brisk. 
Ten  minutes,  or  twelve  at  the  outside,  is  long  enough  t« 
cook  them. 

Sausage  (^o.  2). 

4  lbs,  pork,  lean. 
IJ   "        "       fat. 

10  teaspoonfuls  sage. 

5  "         pep])er. 
5  "         salt. 

Grind  and  season  as  directed  in  "No.  1. 
Thi:s  will  not  keq>  so  long  aa  that  made  according  lo  ub« 
former  receipt,  but  is  very  good  for  immediate  family  me. 

Sausaoe  [No.  3). 
2  lbs.  lean  pork. 
2    "       "    veal. 

2  "     beef  suet. 
Peel  of  half  a  lemon, 
1  grated  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoouful  black  pepper. 

5  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

3  "  sweet  maijoram  and 
thyme  mixed. 


.dhyGoogle 


Juice  of  a  lemon. 
Stuff  in  cases.     This  is  very  fine. 

Bologna  Sausage  (  Uncooked). 
6  lbs.  lean  pork, 
3    «      "     beef. 

3  "    beef  suet, 

4  oimcea  salt. 

6  tablespoonfuls  black  pepper. 

3  "  cayenne. 

2  teaspoonfuls  powdeied  cloves. 

1  "  allspice. 

One  niinced  onion,  very  finely 
cliopped. 
Cliop  or  grind  the  meat,  and  mix  the  seasoning  well 
througb  it.  Pack  it  in  beef-skins  (or  entrails)  prepared  as 
you  do  tbose  of  pork.  In  the  city,  you  can  have  tbese 
cleaned  by  your  butcher,  or  get  them  ready  for  use  from  a 
pork  merchant.  Tie  both  ends  tightly,  and  lay  them  in 
brine  strong  enough  to  bear  «p  an  egg.  Let  them  be  in 
this  for  a  week ;  cliange  the  bi'ine,  and  let  them  remain  in 
this  a  -week  longer.  Tum  tbera  over  every  day  of  the  fort- 
night. Then  take  them  out,  wipe  them,  aad  send  them  to 
be  smoked,  if  you  have  no  smoke-house  of  your  own.  When 
well  smoked,  rub  them  over  with  sweet  oil  or  fresh  bntter, 
&ii(i  iiajig  them  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Bologna  sausage  is  sometimes  eaten  raw,  but  the  dread 
of  the  fatal  triddnce  should  put  an  end  to  this  practice,  did 
not  comm.on  sense  teach  us  that  it  mjst  be  ucwholesome, 
no  less  than  disgusting.  Cut  in  round,  thick  slices,  and 
toast  on  »  gridii-on,  or  fry  in  their  own  iat.  If  you  mean 
to  keep  it  some  time,  rub  over  the  skins  with  pepper  to 
keep  away  insects. 


.dhyGoogle 


H3  OOMUOTT   SONSE. 

Bologna  Sausage  (Cooked). 
2  Its.  lean  beef. 
2   "        "      veal. 

2  "  fat  salt  pork — not  smoked. 

1  lb.  beef  suet. 

10  teaspoonfula  powdered  sage. 
4  lbs.  marjoram,  parsley,  savory,  and  thyuio — mixed 

2  teaspoonfuls  cayenne  pepper,  and  the  same  of 

1  grated  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  doves. 

1  minced  onion. 

Salt  to  taste. 
Chop  or  grind  the  meat  and  suet ;  season,  and  stuff  into 
b«ef-skins ;  tie  these  up ;  prick  each  in  several  places  to  al- 
low the  escape  of  tlie  steam ;  put  into  hot — not  boiiuig 
water,  and  heat  gradually  to  the  boiling-point;  Cook  slowly 
for  one  hour ;  take  out  the  skins  and  lay  them  to  dry  in  the 
sun,  upon  clean,  sweet  straw  or  hay.  Hub  the  outside  of 
the  skins  with  oil  or  melted  butter,  and  hang  in  a  cool,  dry 
cellar.  If  you  mean  to  keep  it  more  than  a  week,  rub  pep- 
per or  powdered  ginger  upon  the  outside.  You  can  wash 
it  off  before  sending  to  table.  This  is  eaten  without  further 
cooking.  Cut  in  round  slices,  and  lay  shced  lemon  around 
the  edge  of  the  dish,  as  many  like  to  squeeze  a  few  drops 
upon  the  sausage  before  eating. 

Labd. 
Every  housekeeper  knows  how  unfit    for   really  nice 
cooking  is  the  pressed  lard  sold  in  stores  as  the  "  best  and 
cheapest."     It  is  close  and  tough,  melts  slowly,  and  is  some- 
times diversified  by  fibrous  lumps.      And   over   when   laiiJ 


.dhyGoogle 


has  boen  "  tried  out "  by  the  usual  process,  it  is  often  mixed 
with  HO  much  ^^ater  as  to  remijid  ua  unpleasantly  that  it 
is  bought  by  weight. 

The  best  way  of  preparing  the  "  leaf  lard,"  as  it  is  called, 
is  to  skin  it  carefully,  wash,  and  let  it  drain ;  tlien  pnt  it, 
out  into  bits,  iuto  a  large,  clean  tia  kettle  or  bucket,  and 
Bet  this  in  a  pot  of  hoiling  water.  Stir  from  time  to  time 
untQ  it  is  melted ;  throw  in  a  very  little  salt,  to  make  the 
sediment  settle ;  and  when  it  is  hot — (it  should  not  boil  fast 
at  any  time,  but  simmer  gently  until  clear) — strain  through 
a  coarse  cloth  into  jars.  Do  not  squeeze  the  cloth  so  loug 
as  the  clear  fat  will  run  through,  and  when  you  do,  press 
the  refuse  into  a  different  vessel,  to  be  used  for  commoner 
purposes  than  the  other. 

Most  of  the  lard  in  general  use  is,  however,  made  from 
the  fatty  portions  of  pork  lying  next  the  skin  of  the  hog, 
and  are  left  for  this  purpose  by  the  hutcKer.  Si;ra])e  from 
the  rind,  and  cut  all  iuto  dice.  Fill  a  large  pot,  putting  in 
a  teacupful  of  water  to  prevent  scorciiing,  and  melt  very 
slowly,  stirring  every  few  minutes.  Simmer  until  tliere 
remains  nothing  of  the  meat  but  fibrous  bits.  Remove 
these  carefully  with  a  perforated  skimmer ;  throw  in  a  little 
salt,  to  settle  the  fat,  and  when  it  is  clear,  strain  through  a 
fine  cullender,  a  sieve,  or  a  coarse  cloth.  Dip  the  latter  in 
boiling  water,  should  it  become  clogged  by  the  cooling  lard. 
Observe  the  directions  about  squeezing  the  strainer.  If 
your  family  is  small,  bear  in  mind  that  lard  keeps  longer  in 
small  than  large  vessels.  Set  away  the  jars,  closely  covereil, 
in  a  cool,  dry  cellar  or  store-room. 

In  trying  out  lard,  the  chief  danger  is  of  burning.  Sim- 
mer gently  over  a  steady  lire  and  gn  e  it  your  whole  atten- 
tion until  it  IS  done  A  moment  s  neglect  will  ruiii  all. 
Stir  very  oftpu^ — all  lost  con'^t-inth  at  tlie  last — and  from 
th»  bottom,  t  ntil   the  salt  is  thiown  in  to  settle  it,  when 


.dhyGoogle 


withdraw  to  a  leas  hot  part  of  the  firo.  Bladders  tied  ovei 
lard  jars  are  the  best  protection ;  next  to  these,  paper,  and 
•jutside  of  this,  cloths  dipped  in  melted  grease. 

Erawn  (No.  1.) 

Pig's  head  weighing  6  lbs. 

1  lb.  lean  beef. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

J  teaspoonful  pepper  (black  or  white). 

J  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 

J  teaspoonful  mace. 

A  pinch  of  cloves. 
.  A  small  onion  minced  very  fine. 
Clean  and  wash  the  head,  and  stew  with  the  beef  in 
enough  cold  water  to  cover.  When  the  bones  will  slip  out 
easDy,  remove  them,  after  draining  off  the  liquor.  Chop 
the  meat  finely  while  it  is  hot,  season,  and  pour  all  into  a 
mould,  wet  inside  with  cold  water.  If  you  can  have  a  tin 
mould  made  in  the  shape  of  a  boar's  head,  your  brawn  wil] 
look  well  at  a  Christmas  feast. 

Ekawn  (No.  2). 

Pig's  head,  feet,  and  ears. 

J  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  same  of  cayenne. 

4  teaspoonfuls  pow^dered  sage. 

1  teaspoonful  mace. 

An  onion  minced. 

Salt  and  saltpetre. 
Soak  the  head  twelve  hours,  and  lay  in  a  strong  brine, 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  saltpetre.  Let  it  lie  tliree  days  in 
this ;  rinse ;  then  boil  it  until  you  can  draw  out  the  bones. 
Do  this  very  carefully  from  the  back  and  under-side  of  tie 
head,  breaking  the  outline  of  the  top  as  little  as  posaiblo 


.dhyGoogle 


POBK.  146 

Chop  the  meat  of  the  feet  and  ears,  which  should  have  been 
boiled  with  the  head,  season  to  taste  with  the  spices  I  have 
indicated  (tastes  vary  in  these  mattters),  beat  in  the  brains, 
or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Fill  up  the  hollowa 
left  by  the  removal  of  the  bones  with  this  mixture.  Tie  in 
a  flannel  cloth,  sewing  this  tightly  into  the  shape  of  tlie 
head;  boil  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  and  set  aside  to  drain 
and  cool.  Do  not  remove  the  cloth  until  next  day.  This 
will  be  found  very  mce. 

Saveloys. 
8  lbs.  pork. 

4  teaspoonfula  black  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  cayenne. 
1  "  cloves  or  mace. 

8  teaspoonfula  sage,  sweet  marjoram,  and  thyme, 

mixed. 
1  teacupful  bread-crumbs. 
Lay  the  meat,  which  should  be  young  pork,  in  a  brine  of 
salt  and  water,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  saltpetre,  and  leave 
it  for  three  days.     Dry  and  mince  it,  season,  and  add  the 
grated  bread.     StufTin  skins,  and  bake,  closely  covered,  in 
an  oven  for  half  an  hour.     Or,  what  is  better,  steam  over 
boiling  water  one  hour. 
Eat  either  hot  or  cold. 

To  Pickle  Pork.   {No.  1.) 

Hams,  shoulders,  chines,  and  "middlings,"  are  the  parts 
of  the  hog  which  are  usually  pickled.  This  should  be  done 
as  soon  as  may  be  after  the  meat  is  fairly  cold— especially 
in  moderate  weather.  When  you  can  pack  down  pork 
twenty-four  hours  after  butchering,  it  is  best  to  do  so,  un- 
less the  cold  he  severe  enough  to  preserve  it  longer. 


.dhyGoogle 


146  OOKN.OS    BESBE. 

4J  llw.  salt. 
1  lb.  brown  sugar. 
1  oz.  saltpetre  in  3  gallons  of  -water. 
Put  into  a  large  saucepan  and  boil  for  half  an  iiour 
ekimnung  off  the  scum.     When  cold,  pour  over  the  meat, 
unci  let  it  lie  for  a  few  days. 

This  is  intended  to  com  a  small  quantity  of  meat  foi 
family  use. 

(No.  2.) 
80  lbs.  of  meat. 

2  quai-ts  and  1  pint  of  fine  salt. 

4  lbs  sugar,  or  1  quart  best  molasses. 

3  oz  saltpetre 

Pulverize  and  mix  the  seasoning,  with  the  exception  of 
the  two  quarts  of  salt,  usmg  the  one  pint  only.  Eub  the 
meat  loell  aU  o-VPr,  and  lay  upon  boards  on  the  cellar-floor 
for  twenty-four  hours  Then,  put  a  few  clean  stonea 
in  the  bottom  of  a  biirel,  lay  sticks  across  these,  that  the 
meat  may  not  soik  m  the  hquor  that  drains  from  it.  Pack 
the  meat  iu  layers,  strewing  between  these  the  remaining 
two  quarts  of  salt.  Let  it  lie  in  the  cask  for  fifteen  or  six- 
teen days,  every  day  during  this  time  tipping  the  cask  to 
drain  off  the  liquor,  or  drawing  it  through  a  bung-hole  near 
the  bottom.     Pour  this  back  in  cupfuls  over  the  meat. 

If  you  do  not  mean  to  smoke  the  meat,  take  it  out  at 
the  end  of  the  fortnight,  rub  each  piece  well  over  with  dry 
salt,  and  return  to  the  barrel.  If  tlie  liquor  does  not  cover 
it,  make  fresh  brine  in  the  proportion  of  two  pounds  of  salt, 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  and  a  quart  of  water,  and 
pour  in  when  you  have  boiled  it  half  an  hour  and  let  it  cooi. 
Lay  a  round  piece  of  board  upon  the  upper  layer  and  keep 
Hob  down  with  stones.  Examine  from  time  to  time,  to  bs 
sure  the  meat  is  keeping  well.     Should  it  seem  likely  to 


.yGoogle 


taint,  throw  away  the  pickle,  rub  ea«h  piece  oyer  with  dry 
Bait,  and  pack  anew.  Pork  pickled  ia  this  wny  will  keep ' 
two  years. 

To  Cure  Haus, 
Having  pickled  your  hams  with  the  rest  of  your  pork, 
as  just  direcbed,  take  them,  after  the  lapse  of  sixteen  days, 
from  the  packing  barrel,  with  the  shonlders  andjowis.  At 
the  South  they  empty  the  cask,  and  consign  the  "whole 
hog  "  to  the  smoke-house.  Wash  off  the  pickle,  and,  whila 
wet,  dip  in  bran.  Some  use  saw-dust,  but  it  is  not  so  good. 
Others  use  neither,  only  wipe  the  meat  dry  and  smoke. 
The  object  in  dipping  in  bran  or  sawdust  is  to  form  a  crust 
which  prevents  the  evaporation  of  the  juices.  Be  sure  that 
it  is  well  covered  with  the  bran,  then  hang  in  the  smoke, 
the  hock  end  downward.  Keep  up  a  good  smoke,  by  hav- 
iiig  the  fire  partially  smothered  with  hickory  chips  and  saw 
dust,  for  four  weeks,  taking  care  the  house  does  not  be 
come  hot.  Take  down  the  meat,  brush  off  the  bran,  exam 
ine  closely,  and  if  you  suspect  insects,  lay  it  in  the  hot  sun 
for  a  day  or  two. 

The  various  ways  of  keeping  hams— each  strongij 
recomni'jnded  by  those  who  have  practised  it— are  too  nu- 
merous to  mention  here.  Some  pack  in  wood  ashes  ;  ot)i- 
ers,  in  dry  oats ;  others,  in  bran.  But  the  best  authorities 
discard  packing  altogether.  I  will  name  one  or  two  meth. 
ods  which  I  know  have  been  successful.  "  I  hang  mine  on 
hooks  from  wires,  at  the  top  of  my  granary,  which  ia  tight 
and  dark,"  says  an  excellent  judge  and  manufacturer  of 
hams,  "  They  are  good  and  sweet  wlien  a  year  old."  An- 
other  admirable  housekeeper  covers  with  brown  paper, 
then  with  coarse  muslin  stitched  tightly  and  fitting  close- 
ly, then  whitewashes.  But  for  the  paper,  the  lime  would 
be  apt  to  eat  away  the  gi-ease.     Still  another  covers  with 


;dhyGoogle 


148  COMMON   SENBK. 

muslin,  atd  coats  with  a  mixttiie  of  bees-wax  and  rosin, 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  covers  are  an  excellent  preca,u> 
tion — provided  always,  that  the  insects  have  not  already 
deposited  their  eggs  in  the  meat.  The  bran  coating  tends 
to  prevent  this. 

I  have  eaten  ham  twenty  years  old  in  Virginia,  which 
had  been  kept  sweet  in  Blaked  ashes.  TJnalaked  will  act 
like  liniG  upon  the  fat. 

Boiled  Ham. 

Soak  in  water  over  night.  Next  morning  wash  hard 
with  a  coarse  cloth  or  stiff  brush,  and  put  on  to  boil  with 
plenty  of  cold  water.  Allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  each 
pound  in  cooking,  and  do  not  boil  too  fast.  Do  not  remove 
the  skin  until  cold;  it  will  como  off  easily  and  cleanly 
then,  and  the  juices  are  better  preserved  than  when  it  ia 
stripped  hot.  Send  to  table  with  dots  of  pepper  or  dry 
mustard  on  the  top,  a  tuft  of  fringed  paper  twisted  about 
the  shank,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Cut  very  thin  in  carving. 

Glazed  Ham.  ■$« 
Brush  the  ham — a  cold  boiled  one,  from  wliich  the 
skin  has  been  taken — well,  all  over  with  beaten  egg.  To 
A  cup  of  powdered  cracker  allow  enough  rich  milk  or 
cream  to  make  into  a  thick  paste,  salt,  and  work  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter.  Spread  this  evenly  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick  over  the  ham,  and  set  to  brown  in  a  mod- 

S  TEAMED  Ham, 
This  is  by  £ar  the  best  way  of  cooking  a  ham.     Lay  in 
cold  water  for  twelve  hours  ;  wash  very  thoroughly,  rub- 
bing with  a  stiff  brush,  to  dislodge  the  salt  and  smoke  OB 


.d  by  Google 


FOOK.  lis 

the  outside.  Put  into  &  steamer,  cover  closely,  and  set  it 
over  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Allow  at  lea^t  twenty  min 
utcs  to  a  pound.     Keep  tlie  water  at  a  hard  boil 

If  you  servo  ham  hot,  skin,  and  immediately  strew 
thickly  with  cracker  or  bread-erumbs,  to  prevent  the  wast? 
of  the  essence.     Put  a  frill  of  paper  about  the  knuckle. 

Send  around  cabbage  or  other  green  vegetables  with  it. 

Baked  Ham. 

Soak  for  twelve  hours.  Trim  away  the  rusty  part  from 
the  under  aide  and  edges,  wipe  very  dry,  cover  the  bottom 
■with  a  paste  made  of  iiour  and  hot  water,  and  lay  it  upside 
down  in  the  dripping-pan,  with  enough  water  to  keep  it 
from  burning.  Bake  five  hours,  or  allow  fully  twenty-five 
miiiutes  to  a  pound.  Baste  now  and  then,  to  prevent  the 
crust  from  cracking  and  scaling  otf.  When  done,  peel  off 
this  and  the  skin,  and  glaze  as  you  would  a  cold  ham. 

Put  cut  paper  about  the  knuckle,  and  garnish  with 
parsley  and  sliced  red  beet — pickled. 

KoAST  Ham, 
Soak  for  two  days  in  lukewarm  water,  changing  at  least 
six  tinies  a  day.  Take  it  out,  wash  very  well,  scrubbing 
the  under  part  hard,  and  trimming  away  the  blaok  and 
rusty  edges.  Skin  with  care,  lest  you  mangle  the  meat 
and  spoil  the  symmetry  of  the  shape.  Lay  in  a  dish  and 
sponge  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  a  mixture  of  wine,  vine- 
gar, sugar,  and  mustard — about  a  tablespoonful  of  white 
Bugar,  a  saltspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  a  glass  of  win* 
to  half  a  gill  of  vinegar.  Do  tliis  at  intervals  of  an  hour, 
washing  every  part  of  the  ham  well,  all  day  and  until  bed 
time.  Renew  the  process  next  morning  until  sis  hours  b& 
foro  you  need  tha  meat.     Put  it  upon  the  spit  or  in.  the 


.dhyGoogle 


150  COMMON   8EHSB. 

dripping-pan,  with  a  cup  of  hot  water  to  prevent  burning 
Add  to  the  roixture — or  what  is  left  of  it  in  the  dish — a 
cupful  of  boiling  water.  Keep  this  on  the  stove  and  baste 
continually  with  it  uutQ  the  liquor  flowa  freely  fi'oni  the 
Iiam  as  it  cooks ;  then  substitute  the  gravy.  When  done 
(you  must  test  with  a  fork),  cover  with  cracker-crumbs, 
worked  to  a  paste  with  milk,  butter,  and  a  beaten  egg,  and 
return  to  the  oven  to  brown. 

Skim  the  gravy ;  add  a  glass  of  good  wine,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  cafsupj^walnut,  if  you  have  it,^ — the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  a   little  nutmeg.     Eoil  up,  and  send  to  table  in  a 

Troublesome  as  the  mode  of  cooking  it  may  seem,  roast 
bam  is  so  delicious — especially  when  cold— as  fully  to 
recompense  the  housekeeper  who  may  be  tempted  to  try  it, 

15  ROILED  Ham. 

Cut  in.  slices.  Wash  well,  and  soak  in  scalding  water 
in  a  covered  vessel  for  half  an  hour.  Pour  off  the  water 
and  add  more  boiling  water.  Wipe  diy  when  the  ham  has 
stood  half  an  hour  in  the  second  water,  and  lay  in  cold  for 
five  minutes.  Wipe  again  and  broil  over  (or  under)  a 
clear  fire. 

Cold  boiled  ham,  that  ia  not  too  much  done,  is  better 
for  broiling  than  raw.     Pepper  before  serving. 

Babbecued  Hau.  •{• 
If  your  ham  is  raw,  soak  as  above  directed ;  then  lay 
the  slices  flat  in  a  frying-pan ;  pepper  each  and  lay  upon  it 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonfu!  of  made  mustard.  Pour  about 
them  some  vinegar,  allowing  half  a.  teaspoonful  to  each 
blice.  Fry  quickly  and  turn  often.  When  done  to  a  fine 
brown,  transfer  to  a  hot  dish;  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pas 


.dhyGoogle 


half  a  glass  of  wine  and  a  very  small  teaspoonful  of  whiU 
eugar.     Boil  up  and  pour  over  the  meat. 


Fried  Ham. 
If  raw,  soak  as  for  broiling.  Cook  in  a  hot  fiying-pan, 
turning  often  until  done.  Serve  with  or  without  the  gravy, 
as  jou  please.  In  some  parts  of  the  country  it  is  custom- 
ary to  take  the  meat  first  from  the  pan,  and  add  to  tha 
gravy  a  little  cream,  then  thicken  with  flour.  Boil  up 
once  and  pour  over  the  ham.  A  little  chopped  parsley  ia 
a  pleasant  addition  to  this  gravy. 

Or, 
You  may  dip  some  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham — cut  ratlier 
thick — in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker-crumhs,  and  fry  them 
in  fat  extracted  from  some  bits  of  salt  pork.  Take  the  dry 
fried  pork  from  the  pan  before  putting  in  the  ham.  Gax- 
nish  with  crisped  parsley. 

Ham  Sasdwiches. 
Cut  some  slices  of  bread  in  a  neat  shape,  and  trim  oiF 
3rust,  unless  it  is  very  tender.     Butter  them  and  lay 
every  two  some  thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham. 
Spread  the  meat  with  a  little  mustard  if  you  like, 

Groimd  hum  makes  delicious  sandwiches.  Cut  the 
bread  very  thin,  and  butter  welL  Put  in  a  good  layer  of 
ham,  and  press  the  two  sides  of  the  sandwiches  firmly,  but 
gently,  together.  Then  roll  lengthwise,  and  pile  in  a  plate 
or  basket. 

Ham  and  Chicken  Sandwiches. 
Mince  sonie   cold  roast  chicken,  and  a  like  quantity  of 
void  boiled  ham,     Put  the  mixture  into  a  saucepan,  witb 


.dhyGoogle 


152  COUHOK   SENSE. 

ftnoug]  L  gi-avy — ohiaken  or  veal — to  make  a  soft  paste.  If  yo'« 
liave  no  gravy,  use  a  little  hot  water,  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
cream,  and  A  fair  lump  of  butter.  Season  with  pepper  to 
your  taste.  Stir  while  it  heats  almost  to  boiling,  working 
it  very  siaooth.  In  about  five  minutes  after  it  begins  to 
smoke,  take  from  the  fire  and  spread  in  a  dish  to  cool. 
With  a  good-sized  cake-cutter,  or  a  plain  thin-edged  tum- 
bler, cut  some  rounds  of  cold  bread,  and  butter  one  side  of 
each.  Sprinkle  the  buttered  sides  with  grated  cheese,  and, 
when  tlie  chicken  is  cold,  put  a  layer  between  these. 
These  sandwiches  are  simple  and  very  good. 

Ham  and  Chicken  Pie. 
Cut  up  and  parboil  a  tender  young  chicken — a  year  old 
one  is  best.  Line  a  deep  dish  with  a  good  pie-crust.  Cut 
some  thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham,  and  spread  a  layer  next 
the  crust ;  then  aiTange  pieces  of  the  fowl  upon  the  ham. 
Cover  this,  in  turn,  with  shcea  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  buttered 
and  peppered.  Proceed  in  tliis  order  until  your  materials 
are  us^d  up.  Then  pour  in  enough  veal  or  chicken  gravy 
to  prevent  dryness.  Unless  you  have  put  in  too  much 
water  for  the  size  of  the  fowl,  the  liquor  in  which  the 
chicken  was  boiled  is  best  for  this  purpose.  Bate  one  hour 
and  a  quarter  for  a  large  pio. 

Ham  and  Eggs. 
Cut  your  slices  of  ham  of  a  uniform  size  and  shape. 
Fry  quickly,  and  take  them  out  of  the  pan  as  soon  as  they 
are  done.  Have  the  eggs  ready,  and  drop  them,  one  at  a 
time,  in  the  hissing  fat.  Have  a  large  pan  for  this  purpose, 
that  they  may  not  touch  and  run  together.  In  three  min- 
ntes  they  will  be  done.  The  meat  should  be  kept  hot,  and 
wb"*!  the  eggs  are  ready,  lay  one  upon  each  slice  of  ham, 


.dhyGoogle 


wtuch  should  have  been  cut  the  propfir  size  for  Uub,     Do 
not  use  the  gravy. 

Pork  asd  Beans. 

Parboil  a  piece  of  the  middling  of  salt  pork,  and  score 
the  skin.  Allow  a  pound  to  a  quart  of  dried  beans,  which 
must  bo  soaked  o  er  n  gbt  in  1  kewarm  water.  Change 
this  twice  tor  more  and  wa  mer  v^ter,  and  in  the  morning 
put  them  on  to  ho  1  m  u)U  Y>  hea  they  are  soft,  di'ain 
off  the  Hq  o  i  ut  tl  e  beans  in  a  deep  dish,  and  half-bury 
the  pork  ii  the  m  d  He  ad  Img  a  very  little  vfaxm  water. 
Bate  a  nice  1   own. 

This  is  a  iHvo  te  d  1  w  th  New  England  fanners  and 
many  other?  Altb  gh  old  fosl  Dned,  it  still  makes  its 
weekly  appcd.auce  upon  tlie  tables  of  hundreds  of  well-to- 
do  families. 

Pork  and  Peas  Puddiso. 
Soak  the  pork,  which    h     Id       1 1         f  t  i        ,  over 
night  in  cold  water;  and  in    n  th      j.  1      t    f  dried 

split  peas.  In  the  moniing  p  t  tl  pe  t  b  1  lowly 
until  tender.     Drain  and  rul    th         h  a       11      1  eason 

with  pepper  and  salt,  and  mii  with  th  tw  t  bl  poon- 
fuls  of  butter  and  two  beaten  ^s  Be.  t  11  w  11  t  ether. 
Have  ready  a  floured  puddin  I  th  I  p  t  th  p  dding 
into  it.     Tie  it  up,  leaving       n    f  Ih        p«t  on  in 

warm,  not  hot  water,  with  the  pork,  and  bod  them  together 
m  hour.  Lay  the  pork  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  turn  on! 
the  pudding,  slice  and  arrange  about  the  meat. 


.dhyGoogle 


COMMON   SBN8K. 


et  0  m  p  a  a  y . 

Laying  to  your  conduct  tlie  lino  and  plummet  of  tL< 
Goldon  Rule,  never  pay  a  visit  (I  use  tlie  word  in  coutra- 
iistinction  to  "  call ")  without  notifying  your  hoatesa-elecl 
of  your  intention  thus  to  favor  lier. 

Perliapa  once  in  ten  thousand  times,  your  friend — he 
ene  mother,  sister,  or  intimate  acquaintance — may  be  en- 
raptm-ed  at  your  unexpected  appearance,  travelling- satchel 
in  hand,  at  her  door,  to  pass  a  day,  a  night,  or  a  month ;  or 
may  be  pleasantly  surprised  when  you  take  the  baby,  and 
run  in  to  tea  in  a  social  way.  But  the  chances  are  so  greatly 
in  favor  of  the  probability  that  you  will  upset  her  house- 
hold arrangements,  abrade  her  temper,  or  put  her  to  undue 
trouble  or  embarrassment,  by  tliia  evidence  of  your  wish  to 
have  her  feel  quite  easy  with  you,  to  treat  you  as  one  of 
the  family,  that  it  is  hardly  worth  your  while  to  risk  so 
much  in  order  to  gain  SO  little. 

Mrs.  Partington  has  said  more  sUIy  things  than  any 
other  woman  of  her  age  in  this  country ;  but  she  spoke 
wisely  in  declaring  her  preference  for  those  surprise-parties 
"when  people  sent  word  they  were  coming."  Do  not  be 
ftshamed  to  say  to  your  nearest  of  kin,  or  the  confidante  of 
your  school-days—"  Always  let  me  know  when  to  look  for 
you,  that  I  may  so  order  my  time  and  engagements  as  to 
eecure  the  greatest  possible  pleasure  from  your  visit."  If 
you  are  the  woman  I  taJce  you  to  be — methodical,  induS' 
triouB,  and  ruling  your  household  according  to  just  and 
firm  laws  of  order  and  punctuality,  you  need  this  notice. 
If  you  are  likewise  social  and  hospitable,  your  rules  are 
made  with  reference  to  possible  and  desirable  interruptions 
ot  this  nature.  It  only  requires  a  little  closer  packing  of 
certain  duties,  an  easy  exchange  of  times  and  seasons,  and 


.dhyGoogle 


COMPAHY.  155 

(eiauie  is  obtained  for  the  rigJit  enjoyment  of  your  friend's 
society  The  additional  pla«e  is  set  at  table ;  your  spare 
bed,  Mhicli  yesterday  waa  tossed  into  a  heap  tliat  both  mat 
tiusses  might  be  aired,  and  covered  lightly  with  a  thin 
spread,  is  made  up  with  fresh  sheets  tiiat  have  not  gath- 
eied  djmp  and  must  from  lying  packed  beneath  blankets 
and  co^  eriets  for  may  be  a  month,  for  fear  somebody  might 
happen  m  to  pass  the  night,  and  catch  you  witb  the  bed  in 
disoider  Towels  and  water  are  ready;  the  room  is  bright 
and  dustloss ;  the  dainty  dish  so  far  prepared  for  dinner  or 
tea  as  to  be  like  Mrs.  Bagnet's  greens,  "  off  your  mind  ; " 
Jolin  knows  whom  he  is  to  see  at  his  home-coming;  the 
childien  are  clean,  and  on  the  qui  vive — children's  instincts 
are  always  hospitable.  The  guest's  -welcome  is  half  given  in 
the  ail  of  the  house  and  the  family  group  before  you  have 
time  to  utter  a  word.  It  may  have  appeared  to  her  a  use- 
less formality  to  despatch  the  note  or  telegram  yon  insisted 
upon.  She  knows  yo«  love  her,  and  she  would  be  wounded 
by  the  thought  that  she  could  ever  "come  amiss"  to  your 
home.  Perhaps,  as  she  lays  aside  her  ti-avelling-dress,  she 
smiles  at  your  "ceremonious,  old-maidish  ways,"  and  mar- 
Tels  that  BO  good  a  manager  should  deem  such  foi-ras  neces- 
sary with  an  old  friend. 

If  she  had  driven  to  your  house  at  uiglitlaO,  to  discover 
that  you  had  gone  with  husband  and  ckildi-en  to  pass  sev- 
eral days  with  John's  mother,  in  a  *own  fifty  miles  away, 
and  tliat  the  servants  were  out  "  a-pieasuring  "  in  the  mis- 
tress' absence ;  if  she  had  found  you  at  home,  nursing  threo 
children  througK  the  measles,  she  having  brought  her 
youngest  with  her ;  if  you  were  yourself  the  invalid,  bound 
hand  and  foot  to  a  Procrustean  couch,  aad  utterly  unable 
even  to  see  her — John,  meanwhile,  being  incapacitated  from 
playing  the  part  of  agreeable  host  by  worry  and  anxiety ; 
if,  on  the  day  before  her  ariivaJ,  your  chambermaid  bad 


.dhyGdogle 


156  COMMON   SENSE, 

gone  off  in  a  "  tiff,"  leaving  you  to  do  her  work  and  to 
nurse  your  cook,  sick  in  tlie  thii-d  story;  if  earlier  comi« 
than  herself  had  fiOed  every  spare  mattress  in  the  house ; — 
if  any  one  of  these,  or  a  dozen  other  ills  to  which  house- 
keepers are  heirs,  had  impressed  upon  her  the  idea  that  her 
visit  was  inopportune,  she  nught  think  better  of  your 

But  since  unlooked-for  Tieitors  will  occasionally  drop 
in  upon  the  best  ve^ulat«d  families,  maJce  it  your  study  to 
receive  them  gracefully  and  cordially.  If  they  care  enough 
for  you  to  turn  aside  from  their  regular  route  to  tarry  a 
day,  or  night,  oi  week  with  you,  it  ^vou]d  be  churlish  not 
to  show  appreaation  of  the  iwor  m  which  you  are  held. 
Make  them  welcome  to  the  best  you  can  offer  at  so  short  a 
notice,  and  let  no  preoccupied  air  or  troubled  smile  bear 
token  to  your  pertuibiition — if  you  are  perturbed.     If  you 

, respect  youi'solf  and  your  Lusbaad,  the  appointments  of 
your  table  will  ne\er  put  you  to  the  blush.  John,  who 
buys  the  silver,  glass,  china,  and  napcry,  is  entitled  to  the 
6very-day  use  of  the  best  11  ou  may  have — I  hope  this  is 
so — a  holiday  set  of  eich,  put  away  beyond  the  reach  of 
hourly  accidents ,  but  if  this  is  ht  for  the  use  of  a  loi>J, 
do  not  make  John  eit  three  hmdrei  and  sixty  days  in  tie 
year  from  such  y.  ire  as  wf  nid  suit  a,  ditcher's  cottage.  1  f 
your  children  ne\er  see  bright  silver  unless  when  "thera 
is  company,"  you  cannot  wonder,  although  you  will  la 
mortified,  at  their  making  looking  glasses  of  the  bowls  tf 
the  spoons,  and  handling  the  forks  awkwardly.  Early  im 
press  upon  them  tliat  what  is  nice  enough  for  Papa,  is  nice 
enough  for  the  Picsident  T  ba^e  noticed  that  where  there 
is  a  wide  diffeienee  between  family  and  company  table  fur 

'  nitui-e,  there  usuilly  exists  a  coiiesf ending  di-jpanty  \» 
tween  every-diy  and  company  n  anners 

Especially,  If-t  \tui  welcomB  be  leadj  and  hiartr  wb  t 


.dhyGoogle 


OOMPiNY.  ■  157 

your  Kusband  bru  h  m  n  nexpeeted  guest.  Take 
care  he  understand  1  ly  tli  t  this  is  hia  prero^iitive ; 
thit  the  rules  by  h  ]  y  w  Id  govern  the  ^isit?  of 
your  o^v□  sex  aie  jjl      11     to  his      Men  laiely  set 

seasons  for  their  vit  Ihynthan  honr  or  two  with 
an  old  chum  oi  mw  fiicnd  out  of  the  hurry  of  business 
life,  li  one  stoop'j  to  pluck  a  stiay  violet  fiom  a  dusty 
roaihide  John  must  take  Lib  chances  when  he  can  gpt 
them  If  he  Cdn  ■walk  home,  arm  in  arm,  ■nith  the  'school 
fellow  he  has  not  seen  before  m  ten  yeais,  not  only  fear- 
lessly, but  glidlj,  inticipatoiy  of  jour  pleasure  at  the 
Bight  of  his ;  if,  when  the  stranger  is  prosent(;d  to  you,  you 
receive  him  as  your  friend  because  he  is  your  husband's,  and 
seat  him  to  a  family  dinner,  plain,  hut  nicely  sorycd,  and 
eaten  in  cheerfulness  of  heart ;  if  the  children  are  well- 
behaved,  and  your  attire  that  of  a  lady  who  has  not  lost 
the  desire  to  look  her  best  in  her  husband's  eyes — you  hava 
added  to  the  links  of  steel  that  knit  youi  husiband's  heart 
to  you;  iacreased  his  affcctiina,te  admiration  for  the  besi 
little  woman  in  the  world.  Many  a  man  has  been  diiven 
to  entertain  his  friends  at  hotils  and  club-iooms,  lecause 
he  dared  not  take  them  home  without  p^imission  fiom  the 
presiding  officer  of  his  household  The  majont)  of  healthy 
men  have  good  appetites,  and  are  not  disposed  to  be  crit- 
ical of  an  unpretending  bill  of  fare.  The  chance  guest  of 
this  sex  is  generally  an  agreeable  addition  to  the  family 
group,  instead  of  de  trap — always  supposing  hint  to  ba 
John's  friend. 

As  to  party  and  liinner-giving,  your  safest  rule  is  to 
obey  the  usage  of  the  community  in  which  you  live  in 
minor  points,  letting  common  sense  and  your  means  giiid* 
you  in  essentials.  Eo  chary  of  undertaking  what  you  can- 
not carry  through  successfully.  Pretention  is  the  ruin  of 
more  entertainments  than  ignorance  or  lack  of  money.     U 


.dhyGoogle 


I5S  COMMON    SENSE. 

you  know  how  to  give  a  large  evening  party  (and  think  if 
a  pleasant  and  remunerative  investment  of  time  and  sep 
ei'al  hundred  doUars) — if  you  understand  the  machinery 
of  a  handsome  dinner-party,  and  can  afford  these  livs.- 
uries,  go  forward  bravely  to  success.  But  creep  before  you 
walk.  Study  established  customs  in  the  beat  managed 
bouses  you  visit;  take  counsel  with  experienced  friends; 
now  and  tiien  make  modest  essays  on  your  own  responsi- 
bility,  and,  insensibly,  these  crumbs  of  wisdom  will  form 
into  a  comely  loaf.  There  is  no  surer  de-appetizer — to  coin 
a  word — to  guests  than  a  heated,  over-iatigued,  anxioua 
hostess,  who  betrays  her  inexperience  by  nervous  glances, 
abstraction  in  conversation,  and,  worst  of  all,  by  apologies, 
A  few  general  observations  are  all  I  purjwse  to  offer  as 
hints  of  a  foundation  upon  which  to  build  your  plans  for 
"  company-giving."  Have  an  abundance  of  dean  plates, 
silver,  knives,  itc.,  laid  in  order  in  a  convenient  place, — 
such  as  an  ante-room,  or  dining-room  pantry, — those  de- 
signed for  each  course,  if  your  entertainment  is  a  dinner, 
upon  a  shelf  or  stand  by  themselves,  and  make  your  wait- 
ers understand  distinctly  in  advance  in  what  order  these 
are  to  be  brought  on. 

Soup  should  he  sent  up  accompanied  only  by  bread,  and 
such  sauce  as  may  be  fashionable  or  suitable.  Before  din- 
ner is  served,  however,  snatch  a  moment,  if  po^ble,  to 
bspect  the  table  in  person,  or  instruct  a  trustworthy  fac- 
totum to  see  that  everything  is  in  place,  the  water  in  the 
goblets,  a  slice  of  bread  laid  upon  a  folded  napkin  at  each 
plate,  &<j.  Unless  you  have  trained,  professional  waiters, 
this  is  a  wise  precaution.  If  it  is  a  gentleman's  dinner, 
you  can  see  to  it  for  youi-self,  since  you  will  not  he  obliged 
to  appear  in  the  parlor  until  a  few  minutes  before  they  are 
summoned  to  the  dining-room.  If  there  are  ladies  in  tlw 
company,  you  must  not  leave  them. 


.dhyGoo^le 


tX)MPANY.  156 

To  return,  then,  to  our  soup :  It  is  not  customary  tc 
offer  a  second  plateful  to  a  guest.  When  the  table  ia 
cleared,  the  fish  should  come  in,  with  potatoes— no  othei 
vegetable,  unless  it  be  a  salad  or  stewed  tomatoes.  Fish  ia 
usually  attended  by  pickles  and  sauces.  After  a  thorough 
change  of  plates,  &c.,  come  the  aubstantials.  Game  and 
other  meats  are  often  set  on  together,  unless  the  dinner  is 
a  very  protracted  and  formal  one.  Various  Tegetahles  are 
passed  to  each  wheu  he  has  been  helped  to  meat.  If  wine 
be  used,  it  is  introduced  aftei  the  li  h  1  wtry  ia  the  first 
relay  of  dessert,  and  puddings  may  he  seived  from  the 
other  end  of  the  table.  Next  appe-ii  creims  jellies,  char- 
lotte-russes,  cakes,  and  the  like  then  fi-uit  and  nuts;  lastly 
coffee,  often  accompanied  with  crackers  and  cheese.  Wine 
of  course,  goes  ai-ound  during  the  desseit — il  it  flows  at  aU. 

Evening  pai-ties  are  less  troublesome  to  a  housekeeper, 
because  less  ceremonious  than  dinners.  If  you  can  afford 
it,  the  easiest  way  to  give  a  large  one  is  to  put  the  whole 
business  into  the  hands  of  the  profession,  by  intrusting 
your  order,  not  only  for  supper,  but  waiters  and  china,  to  a 
competent  confectioner.  But  a  social  standing  supper  of 
oysters,  chicken-salad,  sandwiches,  coffee,  ice-cream,  jellies, 
and  cake,  is  not  a  formidable  undertaking  when  you  have 
had  a  little  practice,  especially  if  your  own,  or  John's 
mother,  or  the  nice,  neighborly  matron  over  the  way  will 
assist  you  by  her  advice  and  presence. 

We  make  thiB  matter  of  company  too  hard  a  business 
in  America;  are  too  apt  to  treat  our  frientls  as  the  Stras- 
burgers  do  their  geese ;  shut  them  up  in  overheated  quar- 
ters, and  stuff  them  to  repletion.  Our  rooms  would  be 
better  for  more  air,  our  guests  happier  had  they  more 
Jiberty,  and  our  hostess  would  be  prettier  and  more  spright- 
ly wore  she  not  overworked  before  the  amvals  begin,  and 
full  of  trepidation  after  they  come, — a  woman  cumbered 


.dhyGoogle 


160  COMMON   SEHBE. 

with  many  thoughts  of  serving,  while  she  is  supjxjsed  to  hi 
enjoying  the  society  of  her  chosen  associates.  It  is  so  ■nell 
understood  that  company  is  a  weariness,  that  inquiries  as  to 
how  the  principal  agent  in  biinging  ahout  an  assembly  ha^ 
"  borne  it,"  have  passed  into  a  custom.  The  tender  syru- 
pathies  manifested  in  such  queries,  the  martyr-lite  air  with 
which  they  are  answered,  cannot  fail  to  bring  to  the  satiri- 
cal mind  the  Cliinaman's  comment  upon  the  British  officers' 
dancing  on  ship-board  in  warm  weather. 

"  Why  you  no  make  your  servants  do  so  hard  workj 
and  you  look  at  dem  ?  " 

We  pervert  the  very  name  and  meaning  of  hospitality 
when  we  pinch  our  families,  wear  away  our  patience,  and 
waste  away  our  nervous  forces  with  our  husbands'  money, 
in  getting  up  to  order  expensive  entertainments  for  com- 
paiatue  sti angers,  whose  utmost  acknowledgment  of  our 
efforts  in  their  hehalf  will  consist  ici  an  invitation,  a  year 
heLce  it  ma,y  he,  to  a  party  constructed  on  the  same  plan, 
mamged  .*  little  bettor  or  a  little  worse  than  ours.  This 
13  not  hospitality  without  grudging,  but  a  vulgar  system  of 
barter  and  gluttony  more  worthy  of  Abyssinians  than 
Christian  gentlefolk. 


i&mt. 

VENISON. 
I  ONCE  received  a  letter  from  the  wife  of  an  Eastern 
man  who  had  removed  to  the  Great  West,  in  which  bitter 
toBiplaints  were  made  of  the  scarcity  of  certain  comforts — 
ice-cream  and  candy  among  them — to  which  she  had  been 
accustomed  in  other  days.  "  My  husband  shot  a  fine  deer 
this  morning,"  she  wrote,  "  but  I  never  could  endure  vim- 
aon.     Can  you  tell  me  of  any  way  of  c 


.dhyGoogle 


TKKIBON.  IGl 

make  it  to]erably  eatible  ?  "  I  did  not  tliink  it  vciy  singa- 
lar  that  one  whos.3  chief  craving  in  the  goodly  land  in  whicl< 
she  had  found  a  home  was  for  cocoanut  cakes  and  choco- 
late caramels,  should  not  like  the  viand  the  name  of  which 
she  could  not  spell.  Nor  did  I  wonder  that  she  failed  to 
make  it  "  eatible,"  or  doubt  that  her  cooking  matched  her 
orthography.  But  I  am  amazed  often  at  hearing  really 
akUful  housewives  pronounce  it  aa  undesirable  dish.  In 
the  hope  of  in  some  measure  correcting  this  impression 
Moong  Eastern  cooks,  who,  it  must  be  allowed,  rarely  taste 
reaUy  fresh  venison,  I  have  written  out,  with  great  care  and 
particularity,  the  following  receipts,  most  of  which  I  have 
used  in  my  own  family  with  success  and  satisfaction. 

The  dark  color  of  the  moat, — I  mean  now  not  the  black, 
butricEi  reddish-brown  Heah, — so  objectionable  to  the  unin- 
itiated, is  to  the  gourmand  one  of  its  chief  recommendations 
to  his  favor.  It  should  also  be  fine  of  grain  and  well 
coated  with  fat. 

Keep  it  hung  up  in  a  cool,  dark  cellar,  covered  with  a 
cloth,  and  use  aa  soon  as  you  can  conveniently. 

Haunch  op  Venison.^ 
If  the  outside  be  hard,  wash  off  with  lukewarm  water; 
then  rub  all  over  with  fresh  butter  or  lard.  Cover  it  on 
the  top  and  sides  with  a  thick  paste  of  flour  and  water, 
nearly  half  an  inch  thick.  Lay  upon  this  a  large  sheet  of 
thin  white  wrapping-paper  well  buttered,  and  above  this 
thick  foolscap.  Keep  all  in  placo  by  greased  pack-thread  ; 
then  put  down  to  roast  with  a  little  water  in  the  dripping, 
pan.  Let  the  fire  be  steady  and  strong.  Pour  a  few  ladle- 
fuls  of  butter  and  water  over  the  meat  now  and  then,  to 
prevent  the  paper  from  scorching.  If  the  haunch  is  lai^, 
it  will  take  at  least  five  hours  to  roast.  About  half  an 
hour  before  30U  take  it  up,remove  the  papers  and  paste 


.dhyGoogle 


1G3  COMMON   BEHSE. 

Mid  tftst  with  a  skewer  to  see  if  it  is  done.  If  this  pasBot 
ensily  to  the  bone  through  the  thickest  part,  sot  it  down  to 
ik  more  moderate  fire  and  baste  every  few  minutes  with 
clai"et  wine  and  melted  butter.  At  the  last,  baste  with  but- 
ter, dredge  with  flour  to  make  a  light  froth,  and  diah.  II 
should  be  a  fine  bi-own  by  this  time.  Twist  a  frill  of  fringed 
paper  around  the  knuckle. 

For  gravy,  put  into  a  saucepan  a  pound  or  so  of  scraps 
of  raw  venison  left  fixim  trimming  the  haunch,  a  quart  ot 
water,  a  pinch  of  cloves,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  half  a  nut- 
meg, cayenne  and  salt  to  taste.  Stow  slowly  to  one-half  the 
original  quantity.  Skim,  strain,  and  return  to  the  sauce- 
pan when  you  have  rinsed  it  with  hot  water.  Add  tJiree 
tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly,  a  glass  of  claret,  two  table- 
epoonfuls  of  butter,  and  thicken  with  browned  flour.  Send 
to  table  in  a  tureen. 

Send  around  currant  jelly  with  venison  always. 

Neck. 
This  is  roasted  precisely  as  is  the  haunch,  allowing  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  to  a  pound. 

Shouldbh 
Tliis  is  also  a  roasting-piece,  but-  may  be  cooked  without 
the  paste  and  paper.     Baste  often  with  butt«r  ajid  water, 
and  toward  the  last,  with  claret  and  butter.     Do  not  let  it 
get  dry  for  an  instant. 

To  Stew  a  Shoulder. 
Extract  the  bones  through  the  under-side.  Make  a 
stuffing  of  several  slices  of  fot  mutton,  minced  fine  and 
seasoned  smartly  with  cayenne,  salt,  allspice,  and  wine,  and 
fill  the  holes  from  which  the  bones  were  taken.  Bind 
fi-mly  in  shape  with  broad  tape.     Put  in  a  lai^e  sau^pan 


idhyGoogle 


,  TEHiaOlf.  168 

with  a  piut  of  gravy  made  fvom  the  refuse  bits  of  venison, 
6(1(1  a,  glass  of  Madeira  or  port  wine,  and  a,  little  black  pep 
per.  Cover  tightly  and  stew  very  slowly  three  or  font 
itours,  according  to  the  size.  It  should  be  very  tender, 
lieniove  the  tapes  with  care ;  dish,  and  when  you  hava 
strained  the  gravy,  pour  over  the  meat. 
This  is  a  most  savory  dish. 

Vesison  Steaks.  »J« 
These  are  taken  from  the  neck  or  haunch.  Have  youi 
f;iidiron  well  buttered,  and  fire  clear  and  hot.  Lay  the 
Eteafcs  on  the  bars  and  broil  rapidly,  turning  often,  not  to 
lose  a  drop  of  juice.  They  will  take  three  or  four  minutes 
longer  to  broU  than  beef-steaks.  Have  ready  in  a  hot  chafing- 
dish  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  e^  for  each  pound  o( 
venison,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  a  tahlespoonful 
currant-jelly  for  each  pound,  and  a  glass  of  wine  for  eveiy 
four  pounds.  This  should  be  liquid,  and  wanned  by  the 
boiling  water  under  the  dish  by  the  time  the  steaks  are  done 
to  a  turn.  If  you  have  no  chafing-dish,  heat  in  a  saucepan. 
Lay  each  steak  in  the  mixture  singly,  and  turn  over  twice. 
Cover  closely  and  let  all  heat  together,  with  fresh  hot  water 
beneath — unless  your  lam.p.is  burning — for  five  minutes 
before  serving.  If  you  serve  in  an  ordinary  dish,  cover  and 
Bet  in  the  oven  for  the  same  time. 

Or, 
If  you  wish  a  plainer  dish,  omit  the  wine  and  jelly ;  pepper 
and  salt  'he  st«aks  when  broiled,  and  lay  butter  upon,  them 
in  tha  proportion  I  have  stated,  letting  them  stand  between 
two  hot  dishes  fi.ve  minutes  before  they  go  to  table,  turning 
them  three  times  in  the  gravy  that  runs  from  them  to  min" 
gle  with  the  melted  butter.  Delicious  steaks  cori'ospoud 
big  in  shape  to  mutton  chops  are  cut  from  the  loin  and  rack 


.dhyGoogle 


164  oomuon  sensb. 

Venison  Cutu;ts.  ■{« 
Trim  the  cutleta  nicely,  and  make  gravy  of  the  refuaa 
bite  in  the  proportion  of  a  cup  of  cold,  water  to  half  a  pound 
of  venison.  Put  in  bonoa,  scraps  of  fat,  etc.,  and  set  on  in 
a  aauceijan  to  stew  while  you  make  ready  the  cutlets.  Lard 
with  slips  of  fat  salt  pork  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart,  and 
projecting  slightly  on  either  side.  When  the  gravy  haa 
stewed  an  hour,  strain  and  let  it  cool.  Lay  the  cutlets  in  a 
saucepan,  with  a  few  pieces  of  young  onion  on  each.  Allow 
one  onion  to  four  or  five  pounds.  It  should  not  bo  flavored 
strongly  with  this.  Scatter  also  a  little  minced  parsley 
and  thyme  between  the  layers  of  meat,  with  pepper,  and  a 
very  little  gi'ated  nutmeg.  The  pork  lardoons  will  salt 
sufficiently.  When  you  have  put  in  all  your  meat,  pour  la 
the  gravy,  which  shoiild  be  warm — not  hot.  Stew  steadily 
twenty  minutes,  take  up  the  cutlets  and  lay  in  a  frying-pan 
in  which  you  have  heated  just  enough  butter  to  prevent 
them  from  burning.  Fry  five  minutes  very  quickly,  turn- 
ing the  cutlets  over  and  over  to  brown,  witliout  drying 
thorn.  I.ay  in  order  in  a  chafing-dish,  and  have  ready  the 
gravy  to  pour  over  them  without  delay.  This  should  be 
done  by  straining  the  liquor  left  in  the  saucepan  and  return- 
ing to  the  fire,  with  the  addition  of  a  tablespoonful  of  cur- 
rant jelly,  a  teaspoonful  Worcestershire  or  other  piquant 
sauce,  and  half  a  glass  of  wine.  I'hicken  with  browned 
flour,  boil  up  well  and  jiour  over  tlie  cutlets.  Let  all  stand 
together  in  a  hot  dish  five  minutes  before  serving.  Venison 
wliich  is  not  fat  or  juicy  enough  for  roasting  makes  a  relish- 
ftble  dish  cooked  after  this  receipt. 

Hashed  Venison.  •{• 
The  remains  of  cold  roast  venison — especially  a  stufFed 
shoulder— may  he  used  for  this  dish,  and  will  give  great 


.dhyGoogle 


VENISON.  1 65 

Batisfaction  to  coot  and  consumers.     &1       tl  e  m    t  f  o  n 
the  bones.     Put  these  with  the  fat  and  oth  [  s  m  a 

saucepan,  with  a  large  teacnpful  of  col  I  t  a  am  11 
onion — one  of  the  button  kind,  minced  i  1  j  in  I  tl  yme 
pejiper  and  salt,  and  three  or  four  whol  lo  ea  Stew  f 
an  hour.  Strain  and  return  to  the  saucepan,  with  whatever 
gravy  was  left  from  the  roast,  a  tablespoonful  currant  jelly, 
one  of  tomato  or  mushroom  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  an- 
chovy  sauce,  and  a  little  browned  flour.  Boil  for  three 
minutes ;  lay  in  the  venison,  cut  into  slices  about  an  inch 
long,  and  let  all  heat  over  the  fire  for  eight  minutes,  but  do 
not  allow  the  hash  to  boil.  Stir  frequently,  and  when  it  is 
Bmoking  hot,  turn  into  a  deep  covered  dish. 

Roast  Fawn, 
Clean,  wash  thoroughly;  stuff  with  a  good  force-meat 
made  of  bread-crumbs,  chopped  pork,  pepper  and  salt,  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Moisten  with  water 
and  cream,  bind  with  beaten  egg  and  melted  butter.  Sew 
up  the  fawn,  turning  the  legs  under,  and  binding  close  to 
the  body.  Cover  with  thin  slices  of  fat  pork,  bound  on  with 
pack-thread,  crossing  in  every  direction,  and  roast  at  a  quick 
fire.  Allow  twenty-two  minutes  to  a  pound.  Twenty  min- 
utes before  it  is  dished,  remove  the  pork,  and  set  down  the 
fawn  to  brown,  basting  with  melted  butter.  At  the  last, 
diedge  with  flour,  let  this  brown,  froth  with  butter,  and 

Garnish  with  abundance  of  curled  parsley,  dotted  with 
drops  of  red  currant  jelly.  A  kid  can  be  roasted  in  the  same 
way — also  hares  and  rabbits. 

Venison  Pasty.  •}• 
This  is  a  name  dear  to  the  heart  of  the  Englishman, 
gincB  the  days  when  Fiiar  Tuck  feasted  the  disguised  Co9U7 


.dhyGoogle 


166  COMMON    SENSE, 

de  lion  npon  it  in  the  depths  of  Sherwood  I'orest,  until 
the  present  generation.  In  this  country  it  is  comjiarativelj 
little  known  ;  bnt  I  recommend  it  to  those  who  have  nev<T 
yet  been  able  to  make  venison  "  tolerably  eatable." 

Almost  any  part  of  the  deer  can  be  used  for  the  purpose, 
bnt  the  neck  aad  shoulders  are  generally  preferred. 

Cut  the  raw  venison  from  the  bones,  and  set  aside  these, 
with  the  akin,  fat,  and  refuse  bits,  for  gravy.  Put  them  in- 
to a  saucepan  with  a  shallot,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg  and  sweet 
herbs,  cover  well  with  cold  water,  and  set  on  to  boil. 
Meanwhile,  cut  the  better  and  fairer  pieces  of  meat  into 
squares  an  inch  long,  and  cook  in  another  saucepan  until 
thre«-quarters  done.  Line  a  deep  dish  with  good  puff-paste. 
That  for  the  lid  should  be  made  after  the  receipt  appended 
to  this.  Put  in  the  squares  of  venison,  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  butter,  and  put  in  half  a  cupful  of  the  liquor  in 
which  the  meat  was  stewed,  to  keep  it  from  burning  at  the 
bottom.  Cover  with  a  lid  of  the  prepared  pastry  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  a  round  hole  in  the  middle,  and  if  yon  have  not 
a  small  tin  cylinder  that  will  fit  this,  make  one  of  buttered 
paper  ;  stiff  writing-paper  is  best.  The  hole  should  be  largo 
enough  to  admit  your  thumb.  Bake  steadily,  covering  tlie 
top  with  a  sheet  of  clean  paper  so  soon  as  it  is  firm,  to  prevent 
it  from  browning  too  fast.  While  it  is  cooking  prepare  the 
gravy.  "When  all  the  substance  has  been  extracted  from  the 
bones,  etc.,  strain  the  liquor  back  into  the  saucepan;  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  and  when  yon  have  skimmed  carefully,  add 
a  glass  of  port  wine,  a  tahlespoonful  of  butter,  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  and  some  browned  flour  to  thicken.  Boil  «p  once, 
remove  the  plug  from  the  hole  in  the  pastry,  and  pour  in 
through  a  small  funnel,  or  a  paper  horn,  as  much  gravy  as 
the  pie  will  hold.  Do  this  very  quickly;  brush  the  crust 
over  with  beaten  e^,  and  put  back  in  the  oven  until  it  is 
a  delicate  brown,  or  rather,  a  golden  russet.     The  pie  should 


.dhyGoogle 


VBNieoN.  1 67 

anly  he  drawn  to  the  door  of  the  oven  for  these  operations, 
and  everything  shouid  be  in  readiness  before  it  is  taken 
out,  that  the  crust  may  be  Hght  and  flaky.  If  you  have 
more  gravy  than  you  need  for  the  dish,  serve  in  a  tnreen 

Cbtjst  of  Pastt. 
H  lb.  of  flour. 

12  oz.  butter. 

Salt. 
Ice- water. 

Dry  and  sift  the  flour  and  cut  up  half  the  butter  in  it  with 
a  knife  or  chopper  until  the  whole  is  fine  and  yellow;  salt, 
and  work  up  with  ice-water,  lastly  adding  the  e^s  beaten 
very  light.  Work  out  rapidly,  handling  as  little  as  pos- 
sible, roll  out  three  times  veri/  thin,  basting  with  butter 
then  into  a  lid  nearly  an  inch  thick,  reserving  a  thin- 
ner one  for  ornaments.  Having  covered  in  your  pie,  cut 
from  the  second  sheet  with  a  cake^nitter,  leaves,  flowers, 
stars,  or  any  figures  you  like  to  adorn  the  top  of  your  crust. 
Bake  the  handsomest  one  upon  a  tin  plate  by  itself  and 
brush  it  over  with  egg  when  you  glaze  the  pie.  After  the 
pasty  is  baked,  cover  the  hole  in  the  centre  with  this. 

If  these  directions  be  closely  followed  the  pasty  will  ho 
delicious.  Bake  two  or  three  hours,  guiding  yourself  bv 
the  size  of  the  pie.     It  is  good  hot  or  cold. 

Venison  Ham. 

These  are  eaten  raw,  and  will  not  keep  so  long  as  othei 
(nioked  meata. 

Mix  together  in  equal  proportions,  salt  and  brown 
imgar,  and  rub  them  hard  into  the  hams  with  your  hand. 
Pack  them  in  a  cask,  sprinkling  dry  salt  between  them, 


.dhyGoogle 


168  COMMON   8KNBB. 

and  let  them  He  eight  days,  rubbing  them  over  eviuy  day 
with  dry  salt  and  sugar.  Next  mix  equal  parts  of  fine  salt, 
molasses,  and  a  teaspoooful  of  saltpetre  to  every  two  hams. 
Take  the  hams  out  of  the  pickle,  go  over  them  with  a  brush 
dipjjed  in  cider  vinegar,  then  in  the  new  mixture.  Empty 
the  cask,  wash  it  out  with  cold  water,  and  repack  the  hams, 
ilripping  from  the  sticky  bath,  scattering  fine  salt  over  each. 
Let  them  lie  eight  days  longer  in  this.  Wash  off  the  pickle 
first  with  tepid  water,  until  the  salt  crystals  are  removed  ; 
then  sponge  with  vinegar,  powder  them  with  bran  while 
wet,  and  smoke  a  fortnight,  or,  if  large,  three  weeks.  Wrap 
in  broiTO  paper  tJiat  has  qo  unpleasant  odor,  stitch  a  musiin 
cover  over  this,  and  whitewash,  unless  you  mean  to  use  at 
once.     Chip  or  shave  for  the  table. 

Venibok  Sausages. 
5  lbs,  lean  \ 


2    "    tat  salt  pork. 

6  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage. 

4  "  salt. 

4  "  black  pepper. 

2  "  cayenne. 

1  small  onion. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 
Chop  tile  meat  very  small,  season,  and  pack  in  skins  or 
small  atone  jars.     Hang  the   skins,  and  set  the  jars,  tied 
down  with  bladders,  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 
Fry  as  you  do  other  sausages. 

EAJ3EITS  OR  HAEES. 

The  tame  rabbit  is  rarely  if  ever  eaten.  The  wild  Iiai'e 
of  the  South-— in  vulgar  parlance,  "  old  hare,"  although  the 
creature  may  be  but  a  day  old — exactly  corresjionda  wifli 


.dhyGoogle 


BABBITS   OE  HABEB.  169 

tHe  rabJjit  of  the  Northeni  fields,  and  when  fat  and  tender 
may  be  made  into  a  variety  of  excellent  disliea. 

Harea  are  unfit  for  eating  in  the  eariy  sfiriiig.  There  is 
thus  much  significance  in  "  Mad  as  a  March  hare."  The 
real  English  hare  is  a  much  larger  animal  than  that  which 
is  known  in  this  country  by  this  name.  To  speak  correctly, 
all  OUT  "  old  field  hares  "  are  wild  i-abhits. 

Roast  Kabcit. 
Clean,  wash,  and  soak  in  water  slightly  salted  for  an 
hour  and  a  half,  changing  it  once  during  this  time.  It  ia 
best  to  make  your  butcher  or  hired  man  skin  it  before 
you  undertake  to  handle  it.  Afterward,  the  task  is  easy 
euough.  Parboil  the  heart  and  liver,  chop  fine,  and  toitc 
with  a,  slice  of  fat  pork,  also  minced.  Make  a  foi-ee-meat 
of  bread-crumbs,  well  seasoned  and  quite  moist,  using  the 
water  in  which  the  giblets  were  boiled,  and  working  in  the 
minced  meat.  Stuff  the  body  with  this,  and  sew  it  up. 
Rub  with  butter  and  roast,  basting  with  butter  and  water 
until  the  gravy  flows  freely,  tlien  with  the  dripijing.  It 
should  be  done  in  an  hour.  Dredge  with  flour  a  few  min- 
utes  beibre  taking  it  up,  then  froth  with  butter.  Lay  in  a 
hot  dish,  add  to  the  gravy  a  little  lemon-juice,  a  young 
onion  minced,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  thicken  with 
browned  flour.     Give  it  a  boil  up,  and  serve  in  a  tureen  or 

Garnish  the  rabbit  with  sliced  lemon,  and  put  a  dot  of 
enrrant  jelly  in  the  centre  of  each  slice.  Cut  off  the  head 
before  sending  to  table. 

Eabbits  Stewed  with  Onions. 
Clean  a  pair  of  nice  rabbits ;  soak  in  cold  salt  and  water 
for  an  hour,  to  draw  out  tlie  blood ;  put  on  in  a  large  sauce- 


.dhyGoogle 


170  coMMoif  eassB. 

pan  with  cold  water  enough  to  cover  ttem,  salt  elighlly; 
and  shew  until  tender.  Slice  in  another  pot  half  a  (ioiiea 
onions,  and  boU  in  a  very  little  water  until  thoroughly  done. 
Drain  off  the  water,  and  stir  the  onions  into  a  giU  of  drawn 
butter,  pepper  to  taste,  and  when  it  simmera,  add  the  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Cut  off  the  beads  of  the  hares,  lay  in  a  hot 
dish  and  pour  over  them  the  onioo-sauce.  Let  the  dish 
Btand  in  a  warm  place,  closely  covered,  five  minutes  before 
Bending  to  table. 

Fricasseed  Rabbit  {While).  4" 
Clean  two  young  rabbits,  cut  into  joints,  and  soak  in 
salt  and  water  an  hour.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  pint 
of  cold  water,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion  finely 
minced,  a  pinch  of  mace,  one  of  nutmeg,  popper,  and  half  a 
pound  of  fat  salt  pork,  cut  into  slips.  Cover,  and  stew 
until  tender.  Take  out  the  rabbits  and  set  in  a  dish  where 
they  will  keep  warm.  Add  to  the  gravy  a  cup  of  cream  (or 
milk),  two  well-beaten  e^s  stirred  in  a  little  at  a  time,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  up  once — when  you  have 
thickened  with  flour  wet  in  cold  milk— and  take  the  saucepan 
from  the  fire.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  stirring  all 
the  while,  and  pour  over  the  rabbits.     Do  not  cook  the  head 

Fkicasseed  Rabbit  (Jirown). 
Cut  off  the  head,— joint,  and  lay  in  soak  for  an  hour. 
Season  the  pieces  with  pepper  and  salt,  dredge  with  flour, 
and  fry  in  butter  or  nice  dripping  until  brown.  Take  from 
the  fat,  lay  in  a  saucepan,  and  cover  with  broth  made  of 
bits  of  veal  or  lamb.  Add  a  minced  onion,  a  great  spoonful 
of  walnut  catsup,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  pinch  of  cloves 
and  one  of  allspice,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne.  Cover 
closely,  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour.     Lay  the  pieces  of 


.dhyGoogle 


BA3BITS  OH  HABBS.  171 

Lare  in  order  upon  a  hot  dish  and  cover  to  keep  warm. 
Stiain  the  gravy,  return  to  the  saucepan,  thicken  witli 
browned  flo«r,  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  pour  over  the  rabbits,  and  send  to 
table. 

Lakded  Rabbit. 
Cut  off  the  head  and  divide  the  body  into  joints.  Lard 
with  slips  of  fat  pork ;  put  into  a  clean  hot  frying-pan  anu 
fry  until  half  done.  Have  ready  some  strained  gravy  made 
of  veal  or  beef— the  first  ia  better  ;  put  the  pieces  of  rabbit 
into  a  saucepan,  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  minced  onion, 
and  some  pepper.  Stew,  closely  covered,  half  an  hour,  or 
until  tender ;  take  out  the  rabbits  and  lay  in  a  hot  covei-ed 
dish.  Strain  the  gravy,  add  a  tablespoonfui  of  butter,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  thicken  with  flour.  Boil  np  and  pour 
over  the  meat. 

Fried  Kabbit, 
They  must  be  very  tender  for  this  purpose.  Cut  into 
joints;  soak  for  an  hour  in  salt  and  water;  dip  in  boat«n 
egg,  then  in  powdered  cracker,  and  fry  brown  in  nice  sweet 
lard  or  dripping.  Serve  with  onion  sauce.  Garnish  with 
sliced  lemon. 

Bahbecued  Eabbit,  ■{■ 
Clean  and  wash  the  rabbit,  wbich  must  be  plump  and 
young,  and  having  opened  it  all  the  way  oo  the  under-side, 
lay  it  ilat,  with  a  amall  plate  or  saucer  to  keep  it  down,  in 
salted  water  for  half  an  hour.  "Wipe  dry  and  broil  whole, 
with  the  exception  of  the  head,  when  you  have  g.islicd 
across  the  back-bone  in  eight  or  ten  places  that  the  heal 
may  penetrate  this,  the  tluckest  part.  Your  fire  should  be 
hot  and  clear,  the  rabbit  turaed  often.  "When  browned  and 
tender,  lay  upon  a  very  hot  dish,  pepper  and  salt  and  battel 
profusely,  turning  the  rabbit  over  and  over  to  soak  up  th* 


.dhyGoogle 


173  COMMON   BENaE. 

melted  butter.  Cover  and  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutea, 
and  heat  in  a  tin  cup  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  season 
ed  with  one  of  made  mustard.  Anoint  the  hot  rabbit  well 
with  this,  cover  and  send  to  table  garnished  with  cris]>ed 
parsley. 

The  odor  of  this  bai-beeue  is  most  ajtpetizing,  and  the 
taste  not  &  whit  inferior, 

Babbit  Pie, 
Cut  a  pair  of  rabbits  into  eight  pieces  each,  soak  in  salt- 
ed water  half  an  hour,  and  stew  until  half  done  in  enough 
■water  to  cover  them.  Cut  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  pork 
into  slips,  and  boil  four  eggs  hard.  Lay  some  bits  of  pork 
in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish  and  upon  tliese  a  layer  of  the 
rabbit.  Upon  this  spread  slices  of  boiled  egg,  peppered  and 
buttered.  Sprinkle,  moreover,  with  a  little  powdered  mace, 
and  squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice  upon  each  piece  of 
meat.  Proceed  in  this  order  until  the  dish  is  full,  the  top 
layer  being  pork.  Pour  in  the  water  in  which  the  rabbit 
was  boiled,  when  you  have  salted  it  and  added  some  lumps 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Cover  with  pufi'-paste,  cut  a  slil, 
in  the  middle,  and  bake  one  hour,  laying  paper  over  the  top 
should  it  brown  too  fast. 

SQUIRRELS. 

The  large  gray  squirrel  is  seldom  eaten  at  the  North, 
but  in  gi'eat  request  in  "Virginia  and  other  Southern  Sta,te8. 
It  ia  generally  barbecued,  precisely  as  are  rabbits;  broiled, 
fricasseed,  or — most  popular  of  all — made  into  a  Brunswick 
stew.  This  is  named  from  Brunswick  County,  Virginia,  and 
{a  a  famous  dish^or  was — at  the  political  and  social  pic-nios 
known  as  barbecues.  I  am  ha]>py  to  be  able  to  give  a  re- 
ceipt for  this  stew  that  is  genuine  and  explicit,  and  fof 
wliiiih  T  am  hidebted  to  a  Virginia  housekeeper. 


;dhyGoogle 


8qitibbel8.  '  7s 

Ekunswick  Stew.  ^ 
2  tquirrelB — 3,  if  small. 
1  quart  of  tomatoes— peeled  aad  sliced. 
1  pint  butter-beans,  or  Lima. 
6  potatoes,  parboiled  and  sliced. 
6  ears  of  green  com  cut  from  the  cob. 
i  lb.  butter. 
}■  "  fat  salt  pork. 
1  teaspoonful  ground  blaofc  pepper. 
Half  a  teaspoonful  cayenne. 
I  gaUon  water. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

2  teaspooafula  white  sugar. 
1  onion,  minced  small. 

Put  on  the  water  with  the  salt  in  it,  and  boil  five  min- 
L-fiiB.  Put  in  the  onion,  beans,  com,  jiorfc  or  bacon  cut 
into  shreds,  potatoes,  pepper,  and  the  squirrels,  which  must 
first  be  cut  into  joints  and  laid  in  cold  salt  and  water  to 
draw  out  the  blood.  Cover  closely  and  stew  two  and  a 
half  hours  very  slowly,  stirring  frequently  from  the  bot- 
tom. Then  add  the  tomatoes  and  sugar,  and  stew  an  hour 
longfr.  Ten  minutes  before  you  take  it  from  the  fire  add 
the  butter,  eiit  into  bits  the  size  of  a  walnut,  rolled  in 
flour.  Give  a  final  boil,  taste  to  see  that  it  is  seasoned  to 
your  liking,  and  turn  into  a  soup-turcpn.  It  is  eaten  from 
BOup-platea.     Chickens  may  be  substituted  for  squirrels. 

EagoOt  or  Squirrels. 
Skin,  clean,  and  quarter  a  pair  of  fine  young  squirrels, 
and  soak  in  salt  and  water  to  draw  out  the  blood.  Slice  a 
tolerably  large  onion  and  fry  brown  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Stir  into  the  frying-pan  five  tablespoonfuia  of  boil 
Jig  wat<ir,  and  thicken  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  browned 


.dhyGoogle 


]7i  COMMON   8BK8B. 

Horn  Put  the  squirrels  into  a  Baucopan,  with  a  quartin 
ol  I  fiound  of  bacon,  cnt  into  slips ;  season  with  pepper  and 
bait  to  taste,  add  the  onions  and  their  gravy,  and  half  a 
ciipfiil  of  tepid  water.  Cover  and  stew  for  forty  minntos, 
Ol  lijitil  tender ;  pour  in  a  glass  of  wine  and  the  juice  of 
lialf  a  lemon,  slialre  around  well,  and  turn  into  a  deep  coT' 

Bkoiled  SqUlREELS. 
Clean  and  soak  to  draw  out  the  blood.  Wipe  dry  and 
broil  over  a  hot,  clear  fire,  turning  often.  When  done,  lay 
in  a  hot  dish  and  anoint  with  melted  butter,  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Use  at  least  a  tahlespoonful  for  each 
squirrel,  and  let  it  lie  hotween  two  hot  dishes  five  minutes 
before  sending  to  table. 


PHEASANTS,  PARTEIDGES,  QUAILS,  GROUSE, 
ETC. 
Tlie  real  pheasant  is  never  sold  in  American  markets. 
The  bird  known  as  such  at  the  South  is  called  a  partridge 
at  the  North,  and  is,  properly  speoiking,  the  i-ufQed  grouse. 
The  Northern  quail  is  the  English  and  Southern  partridge. 
The  wild  fowls  brought  by  the  hundred  dozen  from  the  Far 
West  to  Eastern  cities,  and  generally  styled  prairie-fowls, 
are  a  species  of  grouse.  The  mode  of  cooking  all  these  is 
substantially  the  same. 

EOAST. 

Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  as  you  do  chickens ;  roast  at  a 
hot  fire,  and  baste  with  butter  and  water  until  brown  j 
sprinkl-'  with  salt,  dredge  lightly  at  the  last  with  flour  to 
froth  the  birds,  and  serve  hot.  Thicken  the  gravy  with 
browned  flour,  boil  up,  and  serve  in  a  boat.  Wash  the  in- 
side of  all  game — jirairie-fowls  in  particular — with  soda  and 
water,  rinsing  out  carefully  afterward  with  fair  water. 


.dhyGoogle 


pheisakts,  paeteidges,  quailb,  etc.        175 

Broiled. 

Clean,  wasJi,  and  split  down  the  back.  Lay  in  cold 
water  half  an  hour.  Wipe  carefully,  season,  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  broil  oa  a  gridh-on  over  a  bright  fire.  Wben 
done,  lay  in  a  hot  dish,  butter  ou  both  sides  well,  and  seri  r 
at  oDce. 

Broiled  quails  are  delicious  and  nourishing  fare  for  in 
Talids. 

Grouse  boasted  with  Bmon    •{* 

Clean,  truss,  an  I  stuff  as  usual  Cover  tlip  entii-e  bird 
^nth  thin  shcea  of  corned  ham  or  poik,  bmding  all  with 
butteied  packthread  Eoist  thiee  quaitus  of  an  hour, 
basting  with  butter  and  watei  thite  tun  %  then  with  the 
dupjjmg  Wben  ^uite  doiip,  dish  with  the  Lam  laid  about 
the  boiy  of  the  bud  bkim  the  gr^vy,  thicken  with 
bi  owned  floiii,  scison  with  pepper  and  the  luice  of  a  lemon. 

Quails  roasted  with  Ham.  ^ 
Proceed  as  with  the  grouse,  but  cover  the  ham.  or  pork 
with  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  having  secured  the  slices  of 
meat  with  pack-thread.  Stitch  the  papers  on,  and  keep 
them  well  basted  with  butter  and  water,  that  they  may  not 
biim.  Roast  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  if  the  fire  is  good. 
KemoFe  tlie  papers  ami  meat  before  sending  to  table,  and 
brown  quickly.     This  is  the  nicest  way  of  cooking  quails. 

Salmi  of  Game. 
Cut  cold  roast  partridges,  grouse,  or  quails  into  joints, 
lind  lay  aside  while  you  prepare  the  gravy.  This  is  made 
of  the  bones,  dressing,  skin,  and  general  odds  and  ends, 
after  you  have  selected  the  neatest  pieces  of  the  birds.  Put 
theso — the  scraps — into  a  saucepan,  with  one  small  onion 


.dhyGoogle 


176  COMMON  SENSE. 

minced,  ant!  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs ;  pour  in  a  pint  ot 
water,  and  whatever  gravy  you  may  have,  and  stew,  close- 
ly covered,  for  nearly  an  hour  A  few  bits  of  pork  should 
be  added  if  you  have  no  gra^y  Shim  and  strain,  return 
to  the  fii'e,  and  add  a  little  brown  sherry  and  lemon-juice, 
with  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  ,  thicken  with  brown  flour,  if  tlie 
stuffing  has  not  thickened  it  sufficiently,  boil  up,  and  pour 
over  the  reserved  meat,  which  sho  ild  be  put  into  another 
saucepan.  'Warm  until  all  is  &moking-hot,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil,  AiTange  the  pieces  of  bud  m  a  symmetrical  heap 
upon  a  dish,  and  pour  the  giavj  oier  them. 

G^.iE  Pig— (  rer(/>»f ) 
This  iii»\  be  mide  of  am  of  the  liu  Is  named  in  the 
foregoing  receipts  Grouse  and  quails  together  mike  a  de- 
lightful Chiistmaspie  demand  wash  the  buds,  cut  the 
quails  in  half,  the  grouse  mto  four  pieces  Trim  off  bits 
of  the  uiferior  portions,  necks,  lower  iihs,  etc ,  and  put 
them  with  the  giblets  into  a  sauc^p^n,  with  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  water,  if  your  pie  requires  %ix  buds  While  this  is 
Btewitig  make  a  good  puff-paste  and  Ime  a  large  puddmg- 
diBh,  reserving  enough  for  a  lid  at  least  half  an  inch  thick. 
When  the  livers  are  tender,  take  them  out,  leaving  the 
gravy  to  stew  in  the  covei-ed  saucepan.  Lard  the  breasts 
of  the  birds  with  tiny  strips  of  salt  pork,  and  mince  a  cou- 
ple of  slices  of  tlie  same  with  the  livers,  a  bunch  of  parsley, 
sweet  marjoi-am,  and  thyme,  also  chopped  fine,  the  juice 
of  a  le  non,  pepjiei,  and  a  very  small  shallot.  Make  a  foi-ce- 
nieat  (f  this,  ivith  bieid  crumbs  moistened  with  warm 
milk  Put  seme  thin  strips  of  cold  corned  (not  smoked) 
ham  in  the  bottom  of  the  pie,  next  to  the  crust ;  lay  upon 
these  pieces  of  tlio  bird,  peppered  and  buttered,  then  a  layer 
of  the  force-meat,  and  so  on,  until  you  are  ready  for  tha 
gravy.      Strain  tliis,  return  to  the  fire,  and  season  ivitt 


.dhyGoogle 


PHEASASre,    PABTEIDGEe,    QUAILS,    ETC.  171 

popper  and  a  glass  of  wine.  Heat  to  a  boil,  pom:  iiito  tha 
pie,  and  cover  irith  tte  upper  cniSt,  cutting  a  slit  in  tJia 
middle.  Oruament  with  pastry  leaves,  arranged  iu  a 
wreath  about  the  edge,  and  in  the  middle  a  pastiy  bird, 
*ith  curled  strips  of  pastry  about  it.  These  last  should  be 
baked  separately  and  laid  on  when  the  pie  13  done,  to  cover 
the  hole  in  the  middle. 

Bake  three  hours  if  your  pie  ia  large,  covering  with  pa 
per  if  it  threaten  to  brown  too  fast. 

Quail  Tie. 
Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  the  birds.  Loosen  the  joints  ivith 
B  penknife,  but  do  not  separate  them.  Parboil  them,  for 
tm  minutes,  while  you  prepare  a  puff-paste.  Line  a  deep 
dish  with  this  ;  put  in  the  bottom  some  shreds  of  salt  pork 
or  ham ;  next,  a  layer  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  buttered  and 
peppered;  then  the  birds,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and 
minced  parsley.  Squeeze  some  lemon-juice  upon  them,  and 
lay  upon  the  breasts  pieces  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Cover 
with  slices  of  egg,  then  with  shred  ham;  pour  in  some  of 
the  gi-avy  in  which  the  quails  were  parboiled,  and  put  on 
the  lid,  leaving  a  hole  in  the  middle.     Bake  over  an  hour. 

Wild  Pigeoss  (Stewed).-^ 
Clean  and  wash  very  carefully,  then  lay  in  salt  and  wa^ 
ter  for  an  hour.  Rinse  the  inside  with  soda  and  water, 
shaking  it  well  about  in  the  cavity ;  wash  out  with  fair 
water  and  stuff  with  a  force-meat  made  of  bread-crumbs  and 
chopped  salt  pork,  seasoned  with  pepper.  Sew  up  the  bu-Ua, 
and  put  on  to  stew  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them, 
and  allow  to  each  a  fair  slice  of  fat  bacon  cut  into  narrow 
strips.  Season  with  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  mitmBg.  Boil 
slowly  in  a  covered  saucepan  untQ  tender;  take  from  tha 
5ravy  and  lay  in  a  covered  disli  to  keep  warm.      Strain   tli( 


.dhyGoogle 


178  COMMON   BKN8E. 

gravy,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a 

rant  jelly,  tliickening  witk  browned  flour.     Boil  up  and 

pour  over  the  pigeons. 

Wild-Pigeon  Pie.  <^ 
This  is  made  precisely  as  is  quail  pie,  except  that  tha 
pigeons  are  cut  into  four  pieces  each,  and  not  stulTed.  Par- 
boil and  lay  in  the  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  the  bacon 
and  boiled  eggs.  Make  the  gravy  richer  than  for  the  quails, 
by  the  addition  of  a  good  lump  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour, 
stirred  in  and  boiled  up  to  thicken  before  you  put  it  on 
the  fire.     Wild  pigeons  are  usually  tougher  and  leaner  than 

WILD  DUCKS. 
Nearly  ali  wild  ducks  are  liable  to  have  a  fishy  fia\or, 
and  when  handled  by  inexperienced  cooks,  are  sometimes 
uneatable  from  this  cause.  Before  roasting  them,  guaa-d 
against  this  by  parboiliiig  them  with  a  small  carrot,  peeled, 
put  within  each.  This  will  absorb  the  unpleasant  taste.  An 
onion  will  have  the  same  effect ;  but,  unless  you  mean  to 
use  onion  in  the  stufBcg,  the  carrot  is  preferable.  In  my 
own  kitchen  I  usually  put  in  the  onion,  considering  a  sus- 
picion of  garlic  a  desideratum  in  roast  duck,  whether  wild 

EoAST  Duck  ( WUd), 
Parboil  as  above  directed;  throw  away  the  carrot  or 
onion,  lay  in  fresh  water  half  an  hour  ;  stuff  with  bread- 
crumbs seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  sage,  and  onion,  and 
roast  until  brown  and  tender,  basting  for  half  the  time  with 
butter  and  water,  then  with  the  drippings.  Add  to  the 
gravy,  when  you  have  taken  up  the  ducks,  a  tablespoonful 
of  currant  jelly,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Thicken  witli 
browned  flour  and  serve  in  a  tureen. 


.dhyGoogle 


WILD  DUCES — WILD  TDEKEY.  179 

Wild  Ducks  {Slewed).  ^ 
Parboil  ton  minutes,  when  you  have  lirawn  them,  and 
[nit  in  a  raw  carrot  or  onion.  Lay  in  very  cold  water  half 
tu  hour.  Cut  into  joints,  pepper,  salt,  anil  flour  them. 
Have  ready  some  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  fry  them  a 
light  brown.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan  and  cover  with  gravy 
made  of  the  giblets,  necks,  and  some  bits  of  lean  veal.  Add 
a  minced  shallot,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  salt,  and  jiepper. 
Cover  closely  and  stew  half  an  hour,  or  until  tender.  Take 
out  the  duck,  strain  tlie  gravy  when  you  have  skimmed  it ; 
put  in  a  half-cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk  in  which  an  egg  has 
been  heaton,  thicken  with  browned  flour,  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  wine  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemou,  beaten  in  gradual- 
ly not  to  curdle  the  cream ;  hoil  up  and  pour  over  the  ducks. 
This  is  about  the  best  way  of  cooking  wild  ducks. 

WILD  TURKEY. 

This  stately  stalker  of  Southern  forests  and  Western 
praiiies  is  eagerly  sought  after  by  the  lovcra  of  good  eating 
m  those  regions.  The  dark  meat  and  game  flavor  proclaim 
his  birthright  of  lordly  freedom  as  truly  aftor  he  is  slain 
and  cooked,  as  did  his  lithe  grace  of  figure,  lofty  carriage, 
and  bright  eye  while  he  trod  his  native  wilds.  I  have  heard 
sportsmen  declare  that  when  they  have  inveigled  him  up  to  a 
blind  by  imitating  the  call  of  his  harem  or  younglings,  they 
liave  stood  in  covert,  gun  at  shoulder  and  finger  on  the 
trigger,  spellbound  by  pitying  admiiution  of  his  beauty. 
But  I  have  never  seen  that  sensibility  curbed  appetite  while 
they  told  the  story  at  the  table  adorned  by  the  royal  bird  , 
have  noted,  indeed,  that  their  moutlis  watered  rather  than 
their  eyes,  as  he  crumbled,  like  a  dissolving  view,  under  the 
olade  of  the  carver. 

Draw   and   wash   the   inside  very   cai'efully,  as  with  al. 


.dhyGoogle 


130  '  COMMON   bENBE. 

game.  Domestic  fowls  are,  or  should  be,  kept  up  wittou'. 
eating  foi-  at  Icafit  twelve  hours  before  tliej-  are  killed ;  hut 
we  must  slioot  wild  when  we  can  get  the  chance,  and  of 
course  it  often  happens  that  their  crops  are  distended  by  a 
i-ecent  hearty  meal  of  rank  or  green  food.  Wipe  the  cavity 
■with  a  dry  soft  cloth  before  you  stuff.  Have  a  rich  force- 
meat, bread-crumbs,  some  bits  of  fat  pork,  chopped  fine, 
pepper,  and  salt.  Moisten  with  milk,  and  beat  in  an  egg 
and  a  couple  of  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Baste  with 
butter  and  water  for  the  first  hour,  then  three  or  four  times 
with  thegravy;  laBtly,fiveorsixtiineswithnieIted butter.  A 
generous  and  able  housekeeper  told  me  once  that  she  al- 
ways allowed  a  pound  of  butter  for  basting  a  large  wild 
turkey.  This  was  an  extravagant  quantity,  but  the  meat 
is  dvjer  than  that  of  the  domestic  fowl,  and  not  nearly  so 
fat.  Dreiige  with  flour  at  the  last,  froth  with  butter,  and 
when  lie  is  of  a  tempting  brown,  servo.  Skim  the  gravy, 
add  a  little  hot  water,  pepper,  thicken  with  the  giblets  chop- 
ped hue  ind  Irowned  floiir,  boil  up,  and  pour  into  a  tureen. 
At  the  booth  the  gibiets  are  not  put  in  the  gravy,  but  laid 
vihole,  one  imdei  each  wing,  when  the  turkey  is  dished, 
f.ainish  with  bmall  fiied  sausage-i,  not  larger  than  a  dollar, 
cnsped  pitrsley  between  them. 

&end  aiound  cm  mt  jelly  and  cranbeiTy  sauce  with  it. 

SMALL  BIRDS. 
Jioasl  Snipe  or  Plovers. 
Clean  and  truss,  but  do  not  stuff.  Lay  in  rows  in  the 
Tinpping-pan,  or  tie  upon  a  spit,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  baste 
well  with  butter,  then  with  butter  and  water.  When  they 
iiegin  to  brown,  which  will  be  iu  about  ten  minutes,  cut  aa 
aiaoy  rounds  of  hrcad  (witliout  crust)  as  there  are  biida. 
Toast  quii;kly,  butler,  and  lay  in  the  driiiping-pan,  a  bii'd 


.dhyGoogle 


BMALL   BIED8.  181 

opcm  each.  "Wlieii  the  birds  are  dona,  serpe  upon  tho  toast, 
with  the  gravy  poured  over  it.  The  toast  should  lie  «ndef 
them  whiie  cooking  at  least  five  minutes,  during  which  time 
the  bii-da  should  be  basted  with  melted  butter  seasoned 
with  pepper, 

Bie  largest  snipe  will  not  requii-e  above  twenty  minutea 
to  roast. 

Woodcock, 

This  is  the  most  delicious  of  small  birds,  and  may  ba 
either  roasted  or  broiled. 

Jloast. 

The  English  do  not  draw  woodcock,  r«gardiug  the  traU 
aa  a  bonne  bouc?ie,  and  I  have  known  American  house- 
keepers who  copied  them  in  this  respect.  In  this  case, 
roast  precisely  as  you  would  snipe  or  plover,  only  putting 
the  toast  under  the  birds  so  soon  as  they  begin  to  cook, 
to  catch  the  trail. 

To  my  taste,  a  better,  and  certainly  to  common  sense 
people  a  less  objectionable  plan,  is  to  fill  the  birds  with  a 
rich  force-meat  of  bread-crumbs,  peppered  and  salted,  mois- 
tened with  cream  until  it  is  very  soft,  and  shortened  with 
melted  butter.  Sew  them  up  and  roast,  basting  with  butter 
and  water,  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour.  "Wliet> 
half  done,  put  circular  slices  of  buttered  toast  1 
and  serve  upon  these  when  you  take  them  up. 


Split  down  the  back,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  Butter, 
pepper,  and  salt  when  done,  and  let  them  lie  between  twe 
hot  dishes  for  five  minutes  before  sending  to  table.  SmaU 
snipe  are  nice  broiled  in  this  way ;  also  robins  and  doves. 


.dhyGoogle 


183  common  benbe. 

Salmi  of  Woodcock  oh  Snipe. 
Clean,  and  talf-roast  the  bii'ds ;  cut  in  quarters,  ani)  put 
ill  a  saucepan  with,  gravy  made  of  the  giblets,  necks,  and 
some  bits  of  fat  pork,  stewed  in,  a  Little  water.  Add  a 
minced  button  onion,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  stow 
fifteen  rainutea  or  until  tender,  closely  covered.  Take  out 
the  birds,  and  pile  neatly  upon  buttered  toast  in  a  chafing- 
dish.  Strain  the  gi'avy  and  return  to  the  fire,  adding  some 
small  pieces  of  butter  roiled  in  flour,  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  little  wine.     Boil  up,  and  pour  over  the  salmi. 

Ortolans,  Reed-Bikds,  Rail,  akd  Soka 
may  be  roasted  or  broiled.  A  good  way  is  to  roll  an  oyster 
in  melted  butter,  then  in  bread-crumbs  seasoned  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  put  into  eath  bird  before  roasting.  Baste 
with  butter  and  water  three  times,  put  the  rounds  of  toast 
underneath,  and  baste  freely  "sith  melted  butter,  Tliey 
will  require  about  twehe  minutes  to  cook,  and  will  be 
found  delicious. 

To  Keep  Game  from  Tainting, 
Draw  so  soon  as  they  come  into  your  possession ;  rinse 
with  soda  aaid  water,  tlien  with  pure  cold  water;  wipe  dry, 
and  rub  them  lightly  with  a  mixture  of  fine  salt  and  black 
pepper.  If  you  must  keep  them  some  time,  put  in  the 
cavity  of  each  fowl  a  piece  of  charcoal ;  tang  them  in  a 
cool,  dark  place,  with  a  cloth  thrown  over  them.  Small- 
birds,  unless  there  are  too  many  of  them,  may  be  kept  in 
a  refrigerator  after  you  have  drawn,  washed,  and  wiped 

The  charcoal  is  an  admirable  preventive  of  decompo 
sition. 


.dhyGoogle 


SAUCES   FOK  MEAT  AHD   FISH.  183 

SATJCES  FOE  MEAT  AND  FISH. 

These  are  no  longer  the  appendages  of  the  rich  man's 
bill  of  fare  only,  A  genera]  knowledge  of  made  sauees, 
as  Weil  as  the  more  expensive  ooea  imported  from  abroad 
and  sold  here  at  high  prices,  ia  a  part  of  every  intelligent 
housekeeper's  culinary  education.  Few  are  so  ignorant  as 
to  serve  a  fish  sauce  with  game,  or  vice  versA.  From  the 
immense  numher  of  receipts  which  I  have  coDectod  ajid 
examined,  I  have  selected  compai-atively  few  but  such  as 
I  consider  "  representative  "  articles.  The  ingenious  house- 
wife is  at  liberty,  as  I  have  said  before,  elsewhere,  to  modify 
and  improve  upon  them. 

First,  par  excellence,  as  the  most  important,  and  becausa 
it  is  the  groundwork  of  many  others,  1  pla«e 

Melted  ob  Drawn  Euttek, 
No.  1. 
2  teaspoonfuls  flour. 
IJ  ounce  butter. 
1  teacupful  water  or  milk. 
A  little  salt. 
Put  the  flour  and  salt  in  a  bow],  and  add  a  little  at  a 
time  of  the  water  or  milk,  working  it  very  smooth  as  you 
go  on.     Put  into  a  tin  cup  or  saucepan,  and  set  in  a  vessel 
of  boiling  water.     As  it  warms,  stir,  and  when  it  has  boiled 
a  minute  or  more,  add  the  butter  by  degrees,  stirring  all 
the  time  until  it  is  entirely  melted  and  incorporated  with 
the  flour  and  water.     Boil  one  minute. 

Mix  with  milk  when  you  wish  to  use  for  piddLnga 
with  water  for  meats  and  fish. 


.dhyGoogle 


184  COMMON    SENSE. 

No.  2. 
1^  teaspoonful  of  flour. 

2  ouncea  butter. 

1  teacupful  (smaU)  hot  water. 
"Wet  tLe  flour  to  a  thin  smooth  paste  with  cold  water, 
Rnd  stir  into  the  hot,  which  should  be  in  the  inner  vesseL 
When  it  boils,  add  the  butter  by  degrees,  and  stir  until 
well  mixed.     Boil  one  minute. 

No.  3. 

3  ounces  butter. 

Half-(iint  water  (hot). 

A  beaten  egg. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  flour. 
Wet  the  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk, 
and  jidd  to  the  hot  water  in  the  iimer  vessel,  stirring  until 
tliick.  Have  ready  the  beaten  egg  in  a  cup.  Take  a  tea- 
spooufHl  of  the  mixture  from  the  fire,  and  beat  with  thia 
until  light ;  then  another,  and  still  another.  Set  aside  the 
cup  when  this  is  done,  and  stir  the  butter  into  the  con- 
tents  of  the  inner  saucepan  gradually,  until  thoroughly  , 
mixed,  then  add  the  beaten  e^  in  the  same  way.  There  ia 
no  danger  of  clotting  the  eg^  jf  it  be  treated  as  I  have 
described. 

EcG  SAircE.  •}• 

3  hard-boiled  eggs. 

A  good  teacupful  drawn  butter. 
A  little  salt. 
Chop  the  yollca  only  of  the  eggs  very  fine,  and  beat 
into  the  hot  drawn  butttr,  salting  to  taste. 

Thia  is  used  foi  boiled  fi.wls  and  boiled  fish.     For  tha 
former,  you  can    ul  I  siniic  iniin,i3d  parsley  ;  for  the  Iatt«r 


.dhyGoogle 


SAUCES   FOE   MEAT  AND  FISH,  ]85 

chopped  pickles,  capers,  or  nasturtium  seed.     For  boiled 
bee^  a  small  shallot  minced  fine. 

Or, 
Omit  tie  boiled  eggs,  and  boat  up  two  raw  ones  very  ugh( 
Mid  put  into  the-  drawn  butter  instead,  as  directed  in  No.  3 
For  boiled  beef  or  chicken,  you  may  make  the  drawn  but. 
ter  of  hot  Hquor  taken  from  the  pot  in  which  the  meat  U 
cooking,  having  first  carefully  skimmed  it. 

Sauce  for  Boiled  or  Baked  Fish, 
4  ounces  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  flour. 

2  anchovies. 

1  teaspoonful  chopped  capers,  or  nasturtium  seed, 

or  green  pickle. 
1  shallot. 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
1  tablespoonful  vinegar. 
1  teaeupful  hot  water. 


Put  the  water  into  the  i 


r  saucepan,  chop  the  s 


diovies  and  shallot,  and  put  in  with  the  pepper  and  salt. 
Boil  two  mmutes,  aud  strain  back  info  the  saucepan  when 
you  have  nnsed  with  hot  water.  Jfow  add  the  flour  wet 
smooth  with  cold  water,  and  stir  until  it  thickens  ;  put  in 
the  butter  by  degrees,  and,  whea  it  is  thoroughly  melted 
and  nnxed,  the  vinegar;  lastly,  the  capers  aud  a  little  nut 
meg. 

White  Saoce  pok  Pish.  4* 

Make  drawn  butter  by  receipt  No.  2,  but  with  double 

tlie  quantity  of  flour,  and  use,  lust,  ad  of  water,  the  liquor 

in  which  the  fish  was  boiled.     Add  four  tablespoon fuls  of 

mUk,  in  which  1  shallot  and  a  head  of  celery  or  a  pinch  of 


.dhyGoogle 


186  COMMON    SENSE. 

celery  seed  has  been  boiled,  then  strained  out.     Boil  om 
minute,  and  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 

Oyster  Sauce.  "J* 

1  pint  oysters. 
Half  a  lemon. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
]  teaspoonfiil  flour, 

1  teacupfiil  milk  or  cream. 
Cayenne  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Stew  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  five  minutes,  and 
add  the  milk.  Wheo  tliie  boils,  strain  the  liquor  and  re- 
turn to  the  saucepan.  Thicken  with  the  flour  when  you 
have  wet  it  with  cold  water  ;  stir  well  in ;  put  in  the  but- 
ter, next  the  cayenne  (if  you  like  it),  boil  one  minute ; 
squeeze  in  the  lemon-juice,  shake  it  around  well,  and  pour 

Ot, 
Drain  the  oysters  dry  without  cooking  at  all ;  make  the 
sauce  with  the  liquor  and  other  ingredients  just  named. 
Chop  the  raw  oysters,  and  stir  in  when  you  do  the  butter ; 
hoil  five  minutes,  and  pour  into  the  tureen.  Some  put  in 
the  oysters  whole,  considering  that  the  sauce  is  handsomer 
than  when  they  are  chopped. 

Oyster  sauce  is  used  for  boiled  halibut,  cod,  and  othet 
fish,  for  boDed  turkey,  chickens,  flJid  white  meats  generally. 

Grab  Sauce. 
I  crab,  boiled  and  cold 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 
1  teacupful  drawn  butter. 
Cayenne,  mace,  and  salt  to  taate. 


.dhyGoogle 


BAUOES  FOB   MEAT  AND  FISH.  18'!I 

Make  the  drawD  butter  as  usual,  and  stir  iu  tlifl  milk, 
Pick  the  meat  from  the  crab,  chop  very  fine,  season  ■with 
cayenne,  mace,  and  salt  to  taste ;  stjr  into  the  drawn  but- 
tsr.     Simmer  three  lainutes,  but  do  not  boil. 

Lobster  sauce  is  very  nice  made  as  above,  with  the  ad- 
dition of  a  teaapoonful  of  made  mustard  and  the  jiiice  of 
half  a  lemon.     This  is  a  good  fish  sauce. 

Anchovy  Sauce. 
6  anchovies. 

A  teaoupful  di-awn  butter. 
A  wine-glass  pale  sherry. 
Soak  the  anchovies  in  cold  water  two  hoi  rs ;  pull  them 
to  pieces,  and  simmer  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them 
for  half  an  hour.     Strain  the  liquor  into  the  drawn  butter 
(No.  3),  boil  a  minute,  add  the  wine;  heat  gradually  to  a 
boil,  and  stew  five  minutes  longer. 
Serve  with  boiled  fish. 

Sauce  foe  Lobsters, 
5  toblespoonfuls  fresh  butter. 
Teacupful  vinegar. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  with  a  heaping  tea 

spoonful  white  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 
Minced  parsley. 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  adding  gradually  the  vine- 
gar, sal ;,  and  pepper.     Boil  a  bunch  of  parsley  five  minutes, 
chop  small;  beat  into  the  butter;  lastly  the  sugar   and 
mustard.     The  butter  must  be  light  as  whipped  egg. 


.dhyGoogle 


188  OOmiOS   SENBK. 

Bee  AD  Sabcb, 

1  pint  milk. 

1  cup  bread-crumbs  (very  fine). 

1  onion,  sliced. 

A  pinch,  of  mace. 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
Simmer  tte  sliced  onion  in  the  miltt  until  tender ;  sttain 
Ihe  milk  and  pour  over  the  hread-cmmbs,  which  ahotdd  ba 
put  into  a  saucepan.  Cover  and  soak  half  an  hour ;  beat 
smooth  with  an  egg-whip,  add  tlie  seasoning  and  butter ; 
stir  in  well,  boil  up  once,  and  serve  in  a  tureen.  If  it  ia 
too  thick,  add  boiling  water  and  more  butter. 

This  sauce  is  for  roast  poultry.  Some  people  add  some 
of  tho  gravy  from  the  dnpping-pan,  first  straining  it  and 
beating  it  well  in  with  the  sauce. 

"White  Celeey  Sauce, 

2  large  heads  of  celery. 

1  teacupful  of  broth  in  which  the  fowl  ia  boiled. 

1         "         cream  or  milk. 

Salt  and  nutmeg. 

Heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  and  same  of  butter. 
Boil  the  celery  tender  in  salted  water;  drain,  and  cut 
iiito  bits  half  an  inch  iong.  Thicken  the  gravy  from  tho 
fowl — a  teacupful — with,  the  flour ;  add  the  butter,  salt,  and 
uutmeg,  then  the  milk,  Stir  and  beat  until  it  is  smooth ; 
put  in  the  celery ;  heat  almost  to  boiling,  stirring  all  tho 
while ;  serve  in  a  tureen,  or,  if  you  prefer,  pour  it  over  tha 
boiled  meut  or  fowls. 


.dhyCoogle 


SA.UOBB  FOB  MEAT  AND  FllH.  189 

Onion  Sauce. 
4  white  onions. 
1  teacupful  hot  milk. 
3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

I'eel  the  onions,  boil  tender,  press  the  water  from 
tliem,  and  mince  fine.  Have  ready  the  hot  millf  in  a  sauce- 
jian ;  stir  in  the  onions,  then  the  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Boil  up  onee. 

If  you  want  to  have  it  particularly  good,  make  nica 
melted  or  drawn  hutt«r  (No.  3) ;  beat  the  mashed  onion 
into  it ;  add  a  teacupful  of  cream  or  new  milk ;  season, 
boil  up,  and  serve. 

MaItbe  D'HfiTBL  Sauce.  ^ 
1  teacupful  drawn  butter. 
1  teaspoonfui  minced  pai'sley. 
1  lemon. 
Cayenne  and  salt  to  taste. 

Draw  the  butter  (No.  2) ;  hoil  the  parsley  three  min- 
utes ;  take  it  out  and  lay  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  to 
cool ;  chop  and  stir  into  the  butter ;  squeeze  in  the  Icmon- 
juice,  the  pei)I>er  and  salt;  beat  hard  with  an  egg-whip, 
return  to  the  fire,  and  boil  up  once. 

This  is  a  "stock"  sauce,  being  suitable  for  so  many 
dishes,  roast  or  boiled. 

Mint  Sauce  fob  Roast  Lame. 
2  tablespoonfuls  green  mint,  chopped  fine. 
1  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar. 
Half  a  teacujiful  cider  vinegar. 


.dhyGoogle 


190  COMMON  asisaTi. 

CIiop  the  mint,  put  the  sugar  and  rinegai  in  a  sauo© 
boat,  and  stir  in  the  mint.  Let  it  stand  in  a  cool  plact 
fifteen  minutes  before  Banding  to  table. 

Mushroom  Sauce, 
1  teacupful  young  mushrooms. 
4  tablespoonfiils  butter, 
1  teacupful  cream  or  milk. 
I  teaspoonful  flour. 
Nutmeg,  mace,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Stew  the  mushrooma  in  barely  enough  water  to  covei 
them  im.til  tender.  Drain,  but  do  not  press  them,  and  add 
the  cream,  butter,  and  seasoning.  Stew  over  a  bright  flre 
Btirriiig  all  the  while  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Add  the 
flour  wet  in  cold  milk,  boil  up  and  serve  in  a  boat,  or  pour 
over  boiled  chickens,  rabbits,  etc. 

Cauliflower  Sauce. 
1  small  cauliflower. 
3  tablespoonfiils  butter,  cut  in  bits,  and  rolled  in 

1  small  head  of  celery. 
Mace,  pepper,  and  salt. 
1  teacupful  water. 
1  teacupful  milk  or  cream. 

Boil  the  cauliflower  in  two  waters,  changing  when  about 
lialf  done,  and  throwing  away  the  first,  reserve  a  teacupful 
of  the  last.  Take  out  the  oanliflower,  drain  and  minco. 
Cook  in  another  saucepan  the  onion  and  celery,  mincing 
them  when  tender.  Heat  the  reserved  cupful  of  water 
^ain  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  milk ;  when  warm  ])ut  in  tlia 


.dhyGoogle 


SATTOlil   FOR  MEAT  AMD   FISH.  191 

janlifiower  and  onion,  tlie  butter  and  seasoning— coating 
the  butter  thickly  with  flour;  boil  until  it  thickens. 

This  ia  a  delicious  sauce  for  boiled  corned  beef  and 
mutton. 

AsPARAGua  Sauce. 


2  teacupfuls  drawn  butter, 
2  eggs. 

The  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Salt  and  white  pepper. 
Boil  the  tender  heads  in  a  very  little  salted  water. 
Drain  and  chop  them.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  dravm  but- 
ter, with  two  raw  eggs  beaten  into  it ;  add  the  asparagus, 
and  season,  squeezing  in  the  lemon-juice  last.  The  buttci 
must  be  hot,  but  do  not  cook  after  putting  in  the  asparagus 
heads.  This  accompanies  boiled  fowls,  stewed  fillet  of  veal, 
or  boiled  mutton. 

Apple  Sauce, 
Pare,  core,  and  slice  some  ripe  tart  apples,  stew  in  w<^ter 
enough  to  cover  them  until  &ey  break  to  pieces.      Beat  up 
to  a  smooth  pulp,  stir  in  a  good  lump  of  butter,  and  sugar 
to  taste. 

Apple  sauce  is  the  invariable  accompaniment  of  ro<ist 
pork— or  fresh  pork  cooked  in  any  way.  If  you  wish,  you 
can  add  a  little  d 


Peach  Sauce. 
Soak  a  quart  of  dried  peaches  in  water  four  houis. 
Wash  them,  rubbing  them  against  one  another  by  stirriu" 
around  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Drain,  and  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Stew  until 
they  break  to  pieces.  Huh  to  a  soft  smooth  pulp,  sweeten 
to  taste  with  white  sugar.  Send  to  table  cold,  with  roast 
game  or  other  meats. 


;dhyGoogle 


CX)MMOH   SENSE. 


Ceak  BERRY  Sauce. 


Wash  and  pick  a  quart  of  ripe  cranberries,  and  pit  iiiio 
a  saucepan  with  a  teacupful  of  water.  Stew  slowly,  stir- 
ring often  until  they  are  thick  as  marmalade.  They  require 
ftt  least  an  hour  and  a  half  to  cook.  When  you  take  them 
from  the  fire,  sweeten  abundantly  with  wliite  sugar.  If 
sweetened  while  cooking,  the  color  will  be  bad.  Put  them 
into  a  mould  and  set  aside  to  get  cold. 

Or,  4- 

And  this  is  a  nicer  plan — strain  the  pulp  through  a  cul- 
lender or  sieve,  or  coarse  mosquito-net,  into  a  mould  wet 
■with  cold  wat«r.  When  firm,  turn  into  a  glass  dish  or  sal- 
ver.    Be  sure  that  it  is  sweet  enough. 

Eat  with  roast  turkey,  game,  and  roast  ducka. 

To  Brown  Flour. 

Spread  upon  a  tin  plate,  set  upon  the  stove,  oria&verf/ 
hot  oven,  and  stir  continually  after  it  begins  to  color,  until 
it  is  brown  all  through. 

Keep  it  always  on  hand.  Make  it  at  odd  minutes,  and 
put  away  in  a  glass  jar,  covered  closely.  Shake  up  every 
few  days  to  keep  it  light  and  prevent  lumping. 

To  Brown  Butter. 
Put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  hot  frying-pan,  and  toss  it 
around  over  a  dear  fire  until  it  browns.  Di-edge  browned 
flour  over  it,  and  stir  to  a  smooth  batter  until  it  begins  to 
boil.  Use  it  for  coloring  gravies,  such  as  brown  fricassees, 
etc. ;  or  make  into  sauce  for  baked  fish  and  fish-st«aks,  by 
beating,  in  celery  or  onion  vinegar,  a  very  little  brown  augu 
and  some  cayenne. 


.dhyGoogle 


OATSDPS  AND   FLATOEED  VDrEQAItS.  ]&3 

CATSUPS  AND  rLAYOEED  VINEGARS. 
Made  Mustard.  ■{» 
4  tablespoonfuls  best  Englisli  mustard, 

2  toaapoonfiils  salt, 

3  "  white  sugar. 

1  "  white  pepper. 

2  "  salad  oil. 

Vinegar  to  mix  to  a  smooth  paste — celery  or  Tarragon 

vinegar  if  you  have  it, 
1  small  garlic,  minced  very  small. 

Put  the  mustard  in  a  howl  and  wet  with  the  oil,  rub- 
bing  it  in  with  a  sOvor  or  wooden  spoon  untH  it  is  absorbed. 
Wet  with  vinegar  to  a  stiff  paste;  add  salt,  pepjwr,  sugar, 
BBd  garlic,  and  work  all  together  thoroughly,  wetting  Uttle 
by  little  with  the  vinegaa-  until  you  can  beat  it  as  you  do 
cake-batter.  Beat  five  minutes  very  hard ;  put  into  wide- 
mouthed  bottles— empty  French  mustard  bottles,  if  you 
have  them— pour  a  little  oil  on  top,  cork  tightly,  and  set 
away  in  a  cool  place.  It  will  be  meHow  enough  for  use  in 
a  couple  of  days. 

Having  used  this  mustai-d  for  years  in  my  own  family 
I  can  safely  advise  my  friends  to  undertake  the  ti-ifling  labor 
of  preparing  it  in  consideration  of  the  satisfaction  to  be  de- 
rived from  the  condiment.  I  mix  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar, 
with  pestle  of  the  same;  but  a  bowl  is  nearly  as  good  It 
will  keep  for  weeks, 

HoKSE-RADISH. 

Scrape  or  grind,  cover  with  vinegar,  and  keep  in  wide, 
monthed  bottles.     To  eat  with  roast  beef  and  cold  meafa. 


.dhyGoogle 


194  comuon  sessb. 

Walnut  Catbup. 
Choose  young  walniita  tender  enougli  to  be  pierced  with 
a  pin  or  needle.  Prick  them  in  several  places,  and  lay  in  a 
jar  -Witt  a  handful  of  salt  to  every  twenty-five,  and  water 
enough  to  cover  them  Break  them  -with  a  biUet  of  wood 
or  wooden  beetle,  and  let  them  lie  in  the  pickle  a  fortnight, 
stirring  twice  a  day.  Drain  off  the  liquor  into  a  saucepan, 
and  cover  the  sheila  with  boiling  vinegar  to  extract  what 
juice  remains  in  them.  Crush  to  a  pulp  and  strain  tbrough 
a  cullender  into  the  saucepan.  Allow  for  every  quait  an 
ounce  of  black  pepper  and  one  of  ginger,  half  an  ounce  of 
cloves  and  half  an  ounce  of  nutmeg,  beaten  fine.  Put  m  a 
pinch  of  cayenne,  a  shallot  minced  fine  for  every  (wo  quarts, 
and  a  tbimbleful  of  celery-seed  tied  in  a  bag  for  the  same 
quantity.  Boil  all  together  for  an  hour,  if  these  be  a  gal- 
lon of  the  mixture.  Bottle  when  cold,  putting  an  equ.il 
quantity  of  the  spice  in  each  flask.  Butternuts  make  de- 
lightful catsup. 

Mushroom  Catsup. 
2  quarts  of  mushrooms. 
i  lb.  of  salt. 
Lay  in  an  earthenware  pan,  in  alternate  layers  of  mush- 
rooms and  salt ;  let  them  Ue  sis  hours,  then  hreak  into  bits. 
Set  in  a  cool  place   three  days,  stirring  thoroughly  every 
morning.     Measure  tlie  juice  when  you  have  strained  it, 
and  to  every  quart  allow  half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  the  same 
quantity  of  ginger,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  mace,  a 
teaspoonfiil  of  cayenne.     Put  into  a  stone  jar,  cover  closely, 
set  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire,  and  boil 
five  hours  havd.     Take  it  off,  empty  into  a  porcelain  ket 
tie,  and  boil  slowly  half  an  hour  longer.     I^t  it  stand  all 
night  in  a  cool  place,  until  settled  and  clear.      Pour  off 


.dhyGoogle 


OATSnPfl   AHD  FLAVOEED  VINEGAS8.  l&fl 

Baiefdly  from  the  sediment,  and  bottle,  filling  the  flasks  to 
Uie  mouth.  Dip  the  corks  in  melted  rosin,  aid  tie  up  mth 
bladders. 

The  bottles  should  he  verj  smaJl,  as  it  soon  spoils  wheTi 
exposed  to  the  air. 

Imitation  Wokcestershiee  Sauce. 
3  teaspoonfuls  cayenne  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  walnut  or  tomato  catsup  (strained 
through  muslin). 

3  shallots  minced  fine. 

3  anchovies  chopped  into  bits. 

1  quart  of  vinegar, 

Half-t«asi,oonful  powdered  cloves. 
Mix  and  rub  tlirough  a  sieve.     Put  in  a  stone  jar,  sei 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  ajid  heat  until  the  Uquid  ia  so' hot 
you  cannot  bear  your  finger  in  it.     Strain,  and  let  it  stand 
in  the  jar,  closely  covered,  two  days,  then  bottle  for  use. 

OyaTER  Catsup, 
1  quart  oysters, 
1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper,  and  same  of  mace. 
1  teacupful  cider  vinegar. 

Chop  the  oysters  and  boU  in  their  own  liquor  with  a 
teacupful  vinegar,  skimming  the  scum  as  it  rises.  Boil 
three  minutes,  strain  through  a  hair-cloth;  return  thii 
liquor  to  the  fire,  add  the  wine,  pepper,  salt,  and  mace. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes,  and,  when  cold,  bottle  for  use,  sealin; 
the  corks. 


.dhyGoogle 


Tomato  Catsup.  •!• 
peck  ripe  tomatoes, 
ounce  Bait. 

tablespoonful  black  pepper, 
teaspoonful  cayenne, 
tablespoonful  cloves  (powdered), 

"  ground  mustai'd. 

"  celery  seed  (tied  in  a  thin  muslin  . 

bag). 

Cut  a  slit  in  the  tomatoes,  put  into  a  bell-metal  or  !«*■ 
oe lain  kettle,  and  boil  until  tlie  juice  is  all  extracted  and 
the  pulp  dissolved.  Strain  and  press  through  a  cullender, 
then  through  a  hair  sieve.  Eeturn  to  the  fire,  add  the  sea- 
soning, and  boil  at  least  five  hours,  stirring  coustantly  for 
the  last  hour,  and  frequently  throughout  the  time  it  is  on 
the  fire.  Let  it  stand  twelve  hours  in  a  stone  jar  on  the 
cellar  floor.  When  cold,  add  a  pint  of  strong  vinegar. 
Take  out  the  bag  of  celery  seed,  and  bottle,  sealing  the 
corks.     Keep  in  a  dark,  cool  place. 

Tomato  and  ■walnut  are  the  most  useful  catsups  we  have 
for  general  purposes,  and  either  is  in  itself  a  fine  saiioo  for 
roast  meat,  cold  fowi,  game,  etc. 

Lemon  Catsup. 
13  large,  fresh  lemons. 
4  tablespoonfuls  white  mustard-seed. 
"  turmeric. 

"  white  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
"        mace, 
saltspoonful  <^yenne. 


.dhyGoogle 


OATSOPS  ASD   PLA.VOEED  TDTEQAEB.  197 

2  tableapoonfuls  white  sugar. 

2  "  grated  horae-radisli, 

1  shallot,  minced,  fine. 
Juice  of  tiie  lemona. 

2  tablespoonfuls  table-salt. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  lemons;  pound  or  gi-ind  'the 
Bjiices,  and  put  all  together,  including  the  borae-radish. 
Sbrew  the  salt  over  all,  add  the  lemon-juice,  and  let  iv 
Ktand  three  hours  in  a  cool  place.  Boil  in  a  porcelaia  ket- 
tle half  an.  hour.  Pour  into  a  covered  vessel — china  oi 
atone— and  let  it  stand  a  fortnight,  stirring  well  every  day. 
Then  strain,  bottle,  and  seal. 

It  ia  a  fiue  seasoning  for  fish  sauces,  fiah  soupa  an'' 
game  ragoftts. 

"  EvER-nEADT  "  Catsuj-.  4" 

2  quarts  cider  vinegar. 

12  anchovies,  washed,  soaked,  and  pulled  to  pieces. 
12  small  onions,  [jeeled  and  minced 
1  tablespoonful  mace. 

3  "  fine  salt. 

3  "  white  sugar. 

1  "  cloves. 

3  "  whole  black  pepper, 

2  "  ground  ginger. 
1             "             cayeona 

1  quart  mushrooms,  mincad,  or 
1      "      ripe  tomatoes,  sliced. 

Put  into  a  preserving  kettle  aad  boil  slowly  four  hours, 
or  until  the  mixture  is  reduced  to  one-half  the  original  quan 
tity.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Do  not  bottle  unti; 
next  day.     Fill  the  flasks  to  the  top,  and  dip  the  corks  io 


.dhyGoogle 


lab  COMMON    8EH8K 

This  catsup  will  keep  for  years.  Mixed  with  drann 
butter,  it  is  used  as  a  sauce  for  boiled  fisli,  but  is  a  fine 
fla^'Oi'iug  essence  of  gravies  of  almost  any  kind, 

A  Good  Store  Sauce. 

2  tablespoonfuls  horse-radish  (grated). 

1  "  allspice. 
A  grated  nutmeg. 

3  large  pickled  onions  (minced  fine). 

2  dozen  whole  black  peppers. 
A  pinch  of  cayenne. 

1  tabieapoonful  salt. 

1  "  white  sugar. 

1  quart  vinegar  from  waJnut  or  butternut  pickle. 
Mix  aJl  the  spices  well  together ;  crush  in  a  stone  jai 
■with  a  potato-beetle  or  billet  of  wood ;  pour  over  the  vine- 
gar, and  let  it  staiid  two  weeks.  Put  on  in  a  porcelain  or 
clean  bell-metal  kettle  and  heat  to  boiling;  strain  and  set 
aside  until  next  day  to  cool  and  settle.  Bottle  and  cork 
very  tightly.  It  is  an  excellent  seasoning  for  any  kiud  of 
gravy,  sauce,  or  stew. 

Mock  Capers.  •{« 
Gather  green  nasturtium  seed  when  they  are  full-grown, 
but  not  yellow ;  dry  for  a  day  in  the  sun ;  put  into  small 
jars  or  wide-mouthed  bottles,  cover  with  boiling  vinegar, 
slightly  spiced,  and  when  cool,  cork  closely.  In  six  weeks 
they  will  be  fit  for  use.  They  give  an  agreeable  taste  tt 
drawn  butter  for  fish,  or  boiled  beef  and  mutton 

Celery  Vikegak. 
A  bunch  of  fresh  celery,  or 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  celery  seed. 


.dhyGoogle 


OATSDPS    iNB   FLAVORED   VINEGAE9.  199 

1  quart  of  best  vinegar, 

1  teaapoonful  salt. 

I  tablespoonfiil  white  sugar. 
Cut  up  tiie  celery  into  small  bits,  or  pour  the  seed  into 
n  jai' ;  scald  the  salt  and  viuegar,  aad  pour  over  the  celcrj 
stalks  or  seed ;  let  it  cool,  and  put  away  in  oue  lai^e  jai 
tightly  corked.  lu  a  fortnight  strain  and  bottle  in  small 
flafiks,  corking  tightly. 

Onion  Vibeqae, 
6  large  onions. 
1  tablespoonful  salt. 
1       "  "      white  sugar. 

1  quart  best  vinegar. 
Mince  the  onions,  strew  on  the  salt,  and  let  them  stand 
five  or  six  hours.     Scald  the  vinegar  in  which  the  sugar 
has  been  dissolved,  pour  over  the  onions ;  put  in  a  jar,  tie 
down  the  cover,  and  steep  a  fortnight.     Strain  and  bottle. 

Elderbeehy  Catsup. 
1  quart  of  elderberries, 

1  "      of  vinegai. 

6  anchovies,  soaked  and  pulled  to  pieces. 
Half  a  teaspoonf  ul  mace. 
A  [linch  of  ginger. 

2  tableapooufuls  white  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  whole  peppers. 

Sca!d  the  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  berries,  whicii 

must  be  picked  from  the  stalks  and  put  into  a  large  stone 

jaj-.     Cover  with  a  pane  of  glass,  and  set  in  the  hot  sun 

two  days.      Strain  off  the  liquor,  and  boil  up  with  thf 


.dhyGoogle 


other  ingredients,  stirring  often,  one  hour,  keeping  a 
unless  while  stirring.     Let  it  cool ;  strain  and  bottle. 

This  ia  used  for  flavoring  broivn  gravies,  soups,  and 
ragoCits,  and,  stirred  into  browned  butter,  makes  a  good 
pitjuant  sauce  for  broiled  or  baked  fish. 

Pepper  Yikeoah. 
6  pods  red  peppers  broken  up. 
3  dozen  black  pepper-corns. 
2  tablespoonfuls  wliite  sugar. 
1  quart  of  best  vinegar. 

Scald  the  vinegar  in  which  the  sugar  bas  been  dis- 
solved ;  pour  over  the  pepper,  put  into  a  jar,  and  steep  a 
fortnight.     Strain  and  bottle. 

This  is  eaten  with  boiled  fish  and  raw  oysters,  and  is 
useful  in  the  preparation  of  salads. 

Horse-radish  Vinegar. 
6  tablespoonfuls  scraped  or  grated  horse-radish. 
1  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 
1  quart  vinegar. 

Scald  the  vinegar;  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  horao- 
radifih.     Steep  a  week,  strain  and  bottle. 

SAI^DS. 
"  Tlie  dressing  of  the  salad  should  be  saturated  with 
oil,  and  seasoned  with  pepper  aaid  salt  before  the  vinegar 
is  added.  It  results  from  this' process  that  there  never  can 
be  too  much  vinegar;  for,  from  the  specific  gravity  of  the 
vinegar  compared  with  oil,  what  is  more  tJian  useful  will 
fall  to  the  bottom  of  the  bowl.  The  salt  should  not  be 
dissolved  in  the  vinegar,  but  in,  the  oil,  by  which  means  it 


;dhyGoogle 


R4LAD8.  201 

ia  moie  equally  distributed  tJiroughout  the  aalad."— a<m 
laZ,  a  ^French  cJiemiat. 

The  Spanish  proverb  eays,  that  « to  make  a  perfed 
salad,  there  should  be  a  miser  for  oil,  a  spendthrift  for 
vinegar,  a  wise  man  for  salt,  and  a  madcap  to  stir  the  in- 
grediente  up  and  mix  them  well  together." 

Sydney  Smith's  Receipt  for  Sai^  Deessino. 
Two  boUed  potatoes,  strabed  through  a  Htchen 

Softness  and  smoothness  to  the  salad  give; 
Of  mordant  mustard  take  a  single  spoon— 
Distrust  the  condiment  that  bites  too  soon  ; 
Yet  deem  it  not,  thou  man  of  taste,  a  fault, 
To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt. 
Pour  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  Lucca  crown. 
And  twice  with  vinegar  procured  from  town ; 
True  taste  requires  it,  and  your  poet  begs 
The  pounded  yellow  of  two  weD-boiled  eggs, 
let  onions'  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl 
And,  scarce  suspected,  animate  the  whole ; 
And  lastly,  in  the  flavored  compound  toss 
A  magic  spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce. 
Oh,  great  and  glorious !  oh,  herbaceous  meat ! 
'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat. 
Back  to  tho  world  he'd  turn  his  weary  soul. 
And  plunge  his  fingers  m  the  salad  bowl. 
At  least  twenty-five  years  ago  I  pasted  the  above  dog- 
gerel m  my  scrap-book,  and  comndtted  it  to  memory.     Tha 
first  sakd  I  was  ever  trusted  U>  compound  was  dressed  in 
Btnct  obedience  to  the  directions  of  the  witty  divine,  and 
to  this  day  these  seem  to  me  pertinent  and  worthy  of  Lote. 
The  anchovy  sauce  can  be  omitted  if  you  like,  and  a  spoo» 


.dhyGoogle 


fill  of  Harvey's  or  "Worcesterstire  substituted.      This  U 
best  siiitud  for  cMcken  or  turkey  salad.  '^ 

LoBSTEB  Salad.  >^ 
Pick  out  every  bit  of  the  meat  from  the  body  and  clawn 
of  a  cold  boiled  lobster.     Lay  aside  the  coral  for  the  dres* 
ing,  and  mince  the  rest.     For  the  dressing  you  will  need— 
4  eggs,  boiled  hard. 
2  tablespoonfuls  salad  oiL 

1  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 

2  "  white  sugar. 

1  "  cayenne  pepper.     Tinagar  at  discretion. 

1  "  of  Harvey's,  Worc^tershii-e,  or  anchovj- 

sauce. 
Rub  the  yolka  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a  mortar  or  bowl, 
with  ft  "Wedgewood  pestle,  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon,  until 
perfecUy  free  from  lumps.  Add  gradually,  rubbing  all  the 
while,  the  other  ingredients,  the  coral  last.  This  should 
have  been  worked  well  upon  a  plate  with  a  silver  knife  or 
wooden  spatula.  Proceed  slowly  and  carefully  in  th^,«ra- 
tion  of  amalgamating  the  various  ingredients,  moistening 
with  vinegar  as  they  stiffen.  Increase  the  quantity  of  this 
aa  the  mixture  grows  smooth,  until  it  is.  thin  enough  to 
pour  over  the  minced  lobster.  You  wiU  need  a  teacupful 
at  least.  Then  stir  long  and  well,  that  the  meat  may  be 
thoroughly  impregnated  ivith  the  dressing.  Some  mix 
chopped  lettuce  with  the  salad;  but  unless  it  is  to  be  eaten 
within  a  few  minutes,  the  vinegar  will  wither  the  tender 
leaves.  The  better  plan  is  to  heap  a  glass  dish  with  the 
inner  leaves  of  several  lettuce-heads,  iaj-ing  pounded  ica 
amor^  them,  and  pass  with  the  lobster,  that  the  guests  maj 
»dd  tlia  green  salad  te  their  tai*e. 


;dhyGoogle 


WLen  Itrttuce  is  out  of  season,  the  following  dressing, 
the  receipt  for  which  was  given  me  by  a  French  gourmand, 
may  be  used, 

I'repare  the  egg  and  coral  as  above,  with  the  condimenta 
there  mentioned,  but  mix  with  the  lobster-meat  four  table- 
spoonfula  of  fine  white  cabbage,  chopped  small,  with  two 
Bmall  onions,  also  minced  into  almost  indivisible  bita,  a 
teaspoonful  of  anchovy  or  other  sauce,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  celery  vinegar. 

All  lobster  salad  should  be  eaten  as  soon  as  possible 
after  the  dressing  is  added,  else  it  becomes  unwholesome. 
If  you  use  canned  lobster,  open  and  turn  out  the  contents 
oi  the  can  into  a  china  dish  several  hours  before  you  tniv 
Iho  dressing,  that  the  close,  airless  smell  may  pass  away. 

Garnish  the  edges  of  the  dish  with  cool  white  leaves  of 
rurled  lettuce,  or  with  a  chain  of  rings  made  of  the  whites 
of  the  boiled  e^a. 

'*  Chicken  Salad.  ■}• 

The  white  meat  of  a  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken 
(or  turkey), 
ijjffbree-quarters  the  same  bult  of  chopped  celery, 

2  hard-boiled  e^s. 

1  raw  egg,  well  beaten. 
1  teaapoonfui  of  saK 
1  "  pepper. 

1  "  made  mustard. 

3  "  salad  oil. 

2  "  white  sugar. 
■J  teacupful  of  vinegar. 

Mince  the  meat  well,  removing  every  scrap  of  fat,  gris- 
tle, and  skin ;  »mt  the  celery  into  bits  lialf  an  inch  long,  or 
Im«,  mix  them,  and  set  aside  in  a  cold  pla«e  while  you  pre- 
pare the  dressing. 


.dhyGoogle 


204  COMMON   SENSE. 

Hub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  fine  powder,  add  the  Rtlt, 
pepper,  and  sugar,  then  the  oil,  grinding  hard,  and  putting  in 
but  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  The  mustard  comes  nest,  and  lei 
all  stand  together  while  you  whip  the  raw  egg  to  a  froth 
Beat  this  into  the  dressing,  and  pour  in  the  vinegar  spoon 
ful  by  spoonful,  whipping  the  dressing  well  as  you  do  it. 
Sprinkle  a  little  dry  salt  over  the  meat  and  celery  ;  toss  it 
np  lightly  with  a  silver  fork  ;  pour  the  dressing  over  it, 
tossing  and  mixing  nntil  the  bottom  of  the  mass  is  as  well 
saturated  as  the  top ;  turn  into  the  salad-bowl,  and  garnish 
with  white  of  e^s  (boiled)  cut  into  rings  or  flowers,  and 
sprigs  of  bleached  celery-topa. 

If  you  cannot  get  celery,  substitute  crisp  white  cabbage, 
and  use  celery  vinegar  in  the  dressing.  You  can  also,  in 
this  case,  chop  some  green  pickles,  gherltina,  mangoes,  or 
cucumbers,  and  stir  in. 

Turkey  makes  even  better  salad  than  chicken. 

You  can  make  soup  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  fowl  is 
cooked,  since  it  need  not  be  boiled  in  a  cloth. 

Lettuce  Salad.  ■{• 

Two  or  three  heads  white  lettuce. 

2  hard-boiled  e^a. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salad  oil. 

^  "  salt. 

1  "  white  sugar. 

■J-  "  made  mustard. 

1  "  pepper, 

4  tablespoonfiils  vinegar. 
Rub  the  yolks  to  a  powder,  add  sugar,  pepper,  salt, 
mustard,  and  oil.  Let  it  stand  five  minutes,  and  beat  in  the 
vinegar.  Cut  tie  lettuce  up  with  a  knife  and  fork,^a 
chopper  would  bmise  it,— put  into  a  bowl,  add  the  dressing 
Mid  mil -by  tossing  with  a  silver  fork. 


.dhyGoogle 


6iI.ADB.  305 

Or, 
Vcu  can    dresa  on    the  table  with  oil  and  vinegar  only 
pulling  the  heart  of  the  lettuce  out  with  your  fingers,  and 
seasoning  to  taste. 

Sdmmee  Salad. 
3  heads  of  lettuce. 

2  teaspoonfuls  green  mustard  leaves. 
A  iaadful  of  water-ci'easea. 

Pour  or  five  very  tender  radishes. 

1  cucumber. 

3  hard-boiled  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  "  pepper. 

1  "  made  mustard. 

1  teacupful  vinegar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil. 

Mix  the  dressing  as  for  lettuce  salad.  Cut  up  the  heart?  ■  ■■■ 
of  the  lettuce,  the  radishes  and  cucumber,  i^  very  small 
pieces;  chop  the  mustard  and  crcas.  Pour  over  these  the 
dressing,  tossing  very  hghtly,  not  to  bruise  the  young  leaves ; 
heap  in  a  salad-bowl  upon  a  lump  of  ice,  and  garnish  with 
fennel-heads  and  nasturtium-blossoms. 

This  is  a  delightful  accoiapauimeut  to  boiled  or  baked 
fish. 

Wate  r-Cresses. 
"Wash  and  pick  over  the  crt^ssea  carefuUy,  pluck  from 
the  stems,  and  pile  in  the  salad  bowl,  with  a  dressing  of 
vinegar,  pepper,  salt,  and  sugar,  well  stirred  in. 


.dhyGooc^le 


sos  oommok  sensi^ 

Cabbage  Salad,  ob  Cold  Slaw.  •{< 

1  head  of  fine  white  cabbage,  minced  fiuo, 
3  hard-boiled  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfiila  salad  oil. 
2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 
1  teaspoonftil  salt. 

1  "  pepper. 

1  "  made  mustard. 

1  teaoupful  vinegar. 
Mix  as  for  lettuce  and  pour  upon  the  chopped  cabbage 

Or,  ^ 
Shred  the  head  of  cabbage  fine,  and  dress  with — 

1  cup  vinegar, 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfula  soar  cream. 

A  pinch  of  pepper,  and  the  same  of  salt. 

Put  the  vinegar,  with  all  the  ingredients  for  the  dr^es. 
ing,  except  the  cream,  in  a  saucepan,  and  let  them  come 
to  a  hoQ.  Pour  while  scalding  over  the  cabbage,  and 
Bet  away  until  perfectly  cold.  Add  the  cream  just  before 
serving,  stirring  in  with  a  silver  fork. 

This  is  a  very  nice  preparation  of  cabbage,  and  far  more  , 
irholesome  than  the  uncooked.     Try  it  t 

Tomato  Salad,  ^ 
12  medium-sized  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced. 
4  hard-boiled  egga. 
1  raw  egg,  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  salt, 
^  spoonful  cayenne  pepper. 


.dhyGoogle 


SALADi,  30^ 

I  teaspoonful  white  sugar. 

1  tablespoonfti!  salad  oil. 

2  teaspoonfuls  made  mustard. 
1  teacupful  vinegar. 

Rub  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  paatOj  adding  by  degrees  tha 
Bait,  pepper,  sugar,  mustard,  and  oil.  Beat  the  raw  egg  to 
a  froth  and  stir  in, — lastly  the  vinegar.  Peel  the  tomatoes, 
slice  them  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  set  the  dish  on 
ice,  while  you  are  making  ready  the  dressing.  Stir  a  great 
lump  of  ice  rapidly  in  this — ^the  dressing — until  it  is  cold ; 
take  it  out,  cover  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture,  and  set 
back  on  the  ice  until  you  send  to  table. 

This  salad  is  delicious,  especially  when  ice-cold. 

Celery  Salad,  •{« 
boiled  egg. 
raw  egg, 

tablespoonful  salami  oiL 
teaspoonful  white  sugar, 
saltspoonful  salt. 
"  pepper. 

4  tablespoonfiiis  vinegar. 
1  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 
Prepare  the  dressing  as  for  tomato  salad ;  cut  the  celery 
into  bils  half  an  inch  long,  and  season.     Eat  at  once,  tiefon 
the  vinegar  injures  the  criapness  of  the  vegetable. 

Salmon  Sai.ad.  ■{« 
IJ  lb.  cold  boUed  or  baked  salmon. 

2  heads  white  lettuce  (or  celery). 

3  hard-boiled  eggs. 

2  tablespoonful  s  salad  oil. 


jasyGoogle  ^ 


1  teaajjooiiful  salt,  and  eame  of  cayenne. 

1  "  white  sugar. 

1  "  WorcestersMxe  or  anchovy  eaiice. 

1  "  made  nmstard. 

1  teacupful  T. 


Mince  three-quarters  of  the  salmon,  laying  aside  four  ca 
five  pieces  half  an  inch  wide  and  four  or  five  long;  cut 
smoothly  and  of  uniform  size.  Prepare  the  dressing  in  the 
usual  way,  and  pour  over  the  minced  fish.  Shred  the  let- 
tuce, handling  as  little  as  possible,  and  heap  in  a  separate 
bowl,  with  pounded  ice.  This  must  accompany  the  salmon, 
that  the  guests  may  help  themselves  to  their  liking.  Or 
you  may  mix  the  lettuce  with  the  fish,  if  it  is  to  be  eaten 
immediately.  Celery,  of  course,  is  always  stirred  into  the 
Balad,  when  it  is  used  The  leserved  pieces  of  salmon 
should  be  laid  m  the  diessmg  for  five  mniute?  before 
the  latter  is  added  to  the  minced  fish,  then  djpjied  m 
vinegar.  When  you  haie  tiansfeiied  your  salad  (or  ma- 
yonnaise) to  the  dish  m  which  it  is  to  be  SPi\ed,  round  it 
into  a  mound,  and  lay  the  strips  upon  it  m  such  a  manner 
as  to  divide  it  into  triangular  sections,  the  bars  all  meeting 
at  the  top  and  diverging  at  the  base.  Between  these  have 
subdivisions  of  chain-work  made  of  the  whites  of  the  toiled 
eggs,  each  circle  overlapping  that  next  to  it. 

You  can  dress  halibut  in  the  same  way. 

Cheese,  Saijd,  oe  Mock  Crab, 
-J  lb.  pickled  shrimps. 
J  lb.  good  old  cheese. 
1  tablespoonful  aalad  oil. 
1  teaspoonfui  cayenne  pepper. 
1  "  salt. 

1  "  white  sugar. 


.dhyGoogle 


SALADS.  309 

1  teaspoonful  made  miistard. 

4  tablespoonfuls  celery  or  oiiioa  vine'-ar. 
Mince  the  shrimps  and  grate  the  cheese.  "VYort  intc 
the  latter,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  various  condiments  enu- 
merated above,  the  vinegar  last.  Let  all  stand  together  ten 
minutes  before  adding  the  shrimps.  "When  this  is  done, 
Btir  well  for  a  minute  and  a  half  and  serve  in  a  ghiss  dish, 
garnished  with  lemoit,  or  (if  you  can  get  one)  in  a  clean 
crab-shell, 

i  lb.  old  cheese,  grated. 
1  hard-boiled  egg, 
1  teaspoonful  cayenne. 
"  salt. 

"  white  sugar. 

"  made  mustard, 

tablespoonful  onion  vinegar. 
"  salad  oiL 

Eub  the  yolk  of  the  egg  to  a  paste  with  the  oil,  adding 
in  order  the  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  mustard,  lastly  the 
cheese.  Work  all  weU  together  before  putting  in  the 
vinegar.     Serve  in  a,  crab-shelL 

These  mixtures  bear  a  marvellous  resemblance  in  taste 
to  devilled  crab,  and  make  a  good  impromptu  relish  at  tea 
or  luncheon.  Eat  with  crackers  and  butter.  This  is  still 
better  if  yon  add  a  cupful  of  cold  minced  chicken. 

Use  none  but  the  best  and  freshest  olive  salad  oil  {noi 
iiweet  oil,  falsely  so  called)  in  compounding  your  salad- 
dressing.  If  you  cannot  obtain  fais,  melted  butter  is  th< 
beat  substitute  I  know  of. 


.dhyGooQie 


210  COMMON  BENam. 

VEGETABLES. 

RUIES    iPPUCAELE   TO   THE  CoOKING  OV   ALL  VeGBTABIX* 

1.  Ilave  them  as  fresli  as  possible.  Stale  and  withered 
ones  are  unwholesume  and  unpalatable.  Summer  vegeta. 
bles  should  be  cooked  on  the  same  day  they  are  gathered,  U 
possible. 

2.  Pick  oyer  and  -wash  well,  cutting  out  all  decayed  or 

unripe  parts. 

3  Lay  them,  when  peeled,  in  cold  water  for  some  tima 
beforo  cooking. 

4.  If  you  boil  them,  put  »  little  salt  in  the  water. 

5.  Cook  them  steadily  after  you  put  them  on. 

6.  Be  sure  they  are  thoroughly  done.  Eare  vegetable! 
lire  neither  good  nor  fashionable. 

7.  Drain  well. 

8.  Serve  hot! 

POTATOES. 
Boiled  Potatoes  {vdih  the  skins  orC). 
BoU  in  cold  water  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Have  them  ol 
uniform  size,  and  cook  steadily  until  a  fork  will  pierce  easily 
to  the  heart  of  the  largest.  Then  pour  off  the  wat«r,  every 
drop-  sprinkle  with  salt  and  set  back  on  the  range,  a  little 
to  one  side,  with  the  lid  of  the  pot  off.  I^t  them  dry  three 
or  four  minutes;  peel  very  quicUy  and  serve  in  an  un- 
covered dish. 

Witl^'Out  the  Shita. 
Pare  very  thin.  The  glory  of  a  potato  is  its  mealiness, 
and  much  of  the  starch,  or  meal,  lies  next  the  skin— conse- 
quently  is  lost  by  slovenly  paring,  which  likewise  defacea 
the  shape.  Lay 'in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour,  have  ready 
a  pot  of  boiling  water  slightly  salted,  Srop  in  the  potatoes, 


.d  by  Google 


POTATOES.  211 

and  tepj)  at  a  rapid  boil  until  tender.      Di-ain  off  the  water, 
Bpiiflkhi  with  fine  salt,  and  dry  as  just  directed. 

And  here  comes  a  conflict  of  authorities.  Says  my  kind 
friend  and  neighhor,  Mrs.  A..,  an  excellent  housewife — "  1 
hoil  my  potatoes  in  cold  water  always, — with  a  pinch  of 
Bait,  of  course,  and  when  half  done,  throw  away  the  boiliag 
water  and  fill  up  with  cold,  then  boil  again.  This  makes 
the  potatoes  mealy."  Mrs.  B.,  whose  reputation  as  a  house- 
keeper and  cook  is  in  every  kitchen,  intorposes :—"  I  have 
tried  both  ways.  My  experience  is  that  potatoes  melt  into 
a  sort  of  starchy  gruel  when  boiled  in  cold  water.  The 
philosophy  of  the  operation  is  to  heat  quickly  and  thor- 
oughly, and,  the  instant  ihey  are  done,  to  dry  out  every 
drop  o''  water.  And  — "  wiih  a  toucb  of  pardonable  pride — 
"  we  generally  have  delightful  potatoes."  This  is  true,  but 
remembering  that  Mrs,  A. 'a  are  like  snow  hillocks,  ready  to 
crumble  at  a  breath,  I  come  home  and  try  the  cold  water 
plan.  My  cook,  unlike  most  of  her  tribe,  is  too  sensible  to 
suppose  that  she  knows  everything,  and  willingly  abets  me. 
The  result  of  our  experiments  stands  somewhat  thus — Gar- 
net, White  Mountain,  and  Early  Rose  potatoes  are  apt  to 
dissolve  in  cold  water,  giving  off  their  starch  too  readily, 
perhaps.  "We  boil  them  in  hot  water.  Peach  Blows,  Prince 
Alberts,  and  other  late  varieties  are  best  cooked  as  Mrs.  A. 
recommends — always  pouring  off  the  water  the  instant 
they  are  done  and  letting  the  potatoes  dry  for  a  few  minutes. 
My  housewifely  friends  can  decide  for  themselves  which 
method  is  preferable. 

Mashed  Potatoes.  •{< 

Old  potatoes  are  best  mashed.     Pare,  and  Jet  them  lie 

in  cold  water  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.     A 

longer  time  wilt  not  hurt  them.     Boil  in  hot  or  cold  water 

according  to  the  toughness  of  texture.      A  coarse,  waxy 


hyGooc^lc 


212  COMMON    BBNSB, 

potato  13  best  cooked  in  cold  water.  In  either  case,  put  in 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Drain  thoroughly  when  done,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  and  mask  them  in  the  pot  with  a  potato-beetle, 
working  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  enough  milk  to 
make  the  paste  about  the  consistency  of  soft  dough.  Leave 
no  lumps  in  it,  and  when  smooth,  dish.  Form  into  a  mound 
with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  leave  dots  of  pepper  here  and 
there  on  the  surface,  as  large  as  a  half-dime. 

Or, 
Bpowa  by  setting  in  the   oven  until  a  crust  is  formed. 
Glaze  thia  with  butter,  and  serve. 

To  Boil  New  Potatoes. 
If  very  young,  rub  the  skin  o£f  with  a  rough  towel.  If 
almost  ripe,  scrape  with  a  blunt  knife.  Lay  La  cold  water 
an  hour,  cover  with  cold  water  slightly  salted,  boil  half  an 
hour.  Drain,  salt,  and  dry  for  two  or  three  minutes.  Send 
to  table  plain. 

Or, 

You  may  crack  each  by  pressing  lightly  upon  it  with 
the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon,  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish,  and 
pour  over  them  a  cupful  of  cream  or  new  nulk,  heated  to  a 
boil,  in  which  a  great  spoonful  of  butter  has  been  dissolved. 


To  Stew  Ou)  Potatoes.  4* 

This  is  a  good  way  to  cook  potatoes  which  are  so  rank 
and  tough  as  hardly  to  be  eatable  in  any  other  form. 

Pare  and  quarter,  if  large.  Soak  in  cold  water  one 
hour.  Put  into  a  pot  with  enough  cold  salted  water  to 
cover  them.  When  almost  done,  turn  off  the  water,  add  a 
like  quantity  of  milk,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Before  taking 
np,  stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  a 


H  ,  1  GooqIc 


hfiiidful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  thicken  slightly  with  flou( 
previously  wet  in  cold  milk.  Boil  one  minute,  and  pour  all 
into  a  deep  dish. 

Stewed  Potatoes  foe  BEEAKrAST.  ^ 
Pare,  quarter,  and  soak  in  cold  water  half  an  hour. 
Stew  in  enough  eold  salted  wat«r  to  cover  them.  Befoi-o 
taking  up,  and  when  they  are  breaking  to  pieces,  drain  oil 
half  the  water,  and  pour  in  a  cupful  of  milk.  Boil  threa 
minutes,  stirring  well;  put  in  a  lump  of  buttor  the  size  of 
"^  egg,  a  little  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper ;  thicken  slightly 
with  flour,  boil  up  well  and  turn  into  a  covered  dish. 

This  ia  an  exceUent  family  dish.     Children  are  usually 
fond  of  itj  and  it  is  very  wholesome. 

Baked  Potatoes. 
Wash  and  wipe  some  lai'ge  ripe  potatoes,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  until  tender,  say  from  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
to  an,  hour,  if  of  a  good  size.  Serve  in  a  napkin  with  tho 
skins  on.  Tear  or  cut  a  hole  in  the  top  when  you  eat  them, 
put  in  a  bit  of  butter  with  salt  and  pepper.  They  are  good 
for  boys'  cold  fingers  at  supper-time  on  winter  nights 

Potato  Puff.  •!■ 
Take  two  cupfula  of  cold  mashed  potato,  and  stir  into 
it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  beating  to  a  white 
eream  before  adding  anj-tliiug  elt.e.  Then  put  with  this 
two  eggs  whipped  very  light  and  a  teacupful  of  cream  or 
milk,  salting  to  taste.  Beat  all  well,  pour  into  a  deep  dish, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  it  is  nicely  browned.  If 
properly  mixed,  it  will  come  out  of  the  oven  lightj  {xilly, 
and  delectable. 


.,tcd.yG00^|^^> 


ait  COMMON    8BHSE, 

PoTAroES  Waemed  Over — alias  au  MaUre  (THdtd. 
Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thici 
ftiid  put  into  a  eauoepan  with  four  or  five  tablespoonfuJa  oj 
milk,  two  or  three  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  some  chopped 
parsley.  Heat  quickly,  stirring  alt  the  time  until  ready  to 
boil,  ■when  stir  in  the  jui<!e  of  half  a  lemon..  This  last  in- 
gredient entitles  the  dish  to  the  foreign  title.  Pour  into  a 
deep  dish,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Potato  Croquettes.  »J" 

Season  cold  mashed  potato  with  pejiper,  salt,  and  nut- 
meg. Beat  to  a  cream,  with  a.  tables]]  oonful  of  melted  but- 
ter to  every  cui)ful  of  potato.  Bind  with  two  or  three 
beaten  eggs,  and  add  some  minced  pai'sley.  Roll  into  oval 
balls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in 
hot  lard  or  drippings. 

Pile  in  a  pyramid  upon  a  flat  dish,  and  serve. 

Fried  Potatoes,  •{■ 
Pare,  wash,  and  slice  some  raw  potatoes  as  thin  as  wa^ 
fers.  This  can  be  done  with  a  sharp  knife,  although  there 
is  a  little  instrument  for  the  purpose,  to  be  had  at  the 
house-furnishing  stoi'es,  which  flutes  prettily  as  well  aa 
slices  evenly.  Lay  in  ice-water  for  half  an  hour,  wipe  dry 
in  two  cloths,  spreading  them  upon  one,  and  pressing  the 
other  upon  them.  Have  ready  in  the  irying-pan  some  boil- 
ing lard  or  nice  dripping,  fry  a  light  brown,  sprinkle  with 
salt,  and  serve  in  a  napkin  laid  in  a  deep  dish  and  folded 
over  the  potatoes.  To  dry  them  of  the  fat,  tafeo  from  tlie 
filing-pan  as  soon  as  "they  are  brown,  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  put  into  a  cullender  and  shako  for  an  instant. 
They  should  be  crisp  and  fi:e6  from  grease. 


H   ^   Cookie 


POTATOES,  216 

Or, 

Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  bits,  season  -with  peppet 
and  salt,  and  fry  lightly  in  drippiag  or  butter,  turning  theui 
constantly  until  nicely  browned. 

Potato  Eiebon. 

Pare  and  lay  in  ice-water  for  an  hour.  Choose  tho 
largest  and  soundest  potatoes  you  can  get  for  tMs  dish.  At 
the  end  of  the  hour,  paro,  with  a  small  knife,  round  and 
round  in  one  continuous  curling  strip.  Tliere  is  also  an  in- 
strument for  this  purpose,  which  costs  but  a  trifle,  and  wiU 
do  the  work  deftly  and  expeditiously.  Hajidle  with  care, 
f'-y — a  few  at  a  time,  for  fear  of  entanglement — ia  lard  or 
clai-ified  drippings,  drain,  and  arrange  neatly  upon  a  hot 
ilat  dish. 

Potatoes  A  la  CrI:mb,  ■{* 

Put  into  a  saucepan  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  e, 
smail  liasdful  of  parsley  chopped  small,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Stir  up  well  until  hot,  add  a  small  teacupful  of  cream 
or  rich  milk,  tbicfcon  with  two  teaspoonfula  of  flour,  and 
stir  until  it  boils.  Cliop  some  cold  boiled  potatoes,  put  into 
the  mixture,  and  boil  up  once  before  serving. 

Stuffed  Potatoes,  »^ 
Take  large,  fair  potatoes,  bake  until  soft,  and  cut  a 
round  piece  off  the  top  of  each.  Scrape  out  the  inside 
carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  the  skin,  and  set  aside  the 
empty  cases  with  the  covers.  Mash  the  inside  very 
smoothly,  working  into  it  while  hot  some  butter  and  crearo 
— about  half  a  teaspoonful  of  each  for  every  potato.  Soa- 
Bon  with  salt  and  pepper,  with  a  good  pinch  of  giated 
cheese  for  each;  work  it  very  soft  with  milk,  and  put  intg 


GooqIc 


3l8  COMMON   6EKBE. 

a  saucepan,  to  heat,  stirring,  to  prevent  burning.  Wten 
ecalding  hot,  stir  in  oue  well-beaten  egg  for  six  large  pota- 
toes. Boil  up  once,  fill  the  skins  with  the  mixture,  i-epla- 
cing  the  caps,  return  them  to  the  oven  for  tliree  minatea ; 
WTange  upon  a  napkin  in  a  deep  dish,  the  caps  ujipermost ; 
cover  with  a  fold  of  the  napkin,  and  eat  hot. 

Or, 
Yoi  maj-  omit  the  e^a  and  put  in  a  double  quantity  ol 
cheese.     They  are  very  good. 

Potato  Scallops. 

Boil,  and  mash  the  potatoes  soft  with  a  little  millc. 
Beat  up  light  with  melted  butter — a  dessertspoonful  for 
every  half-pint  of  the  potato — salt  ajid  pepper  to  taste. 
Fill  some  patty-pans  or  buttered  scaUop  shells  with  the  mls- 
ture,  and  brown  in  an  oven,  when  you  have  stamped  a  pat- 
tern on  the  top  of  each.  Glaze,  while  hot,  with  butter,  and 
eerve  in  the  sheila. 

If  you  like,  you  can  strew  some  grated  cheese  over  thti 
top. 

Browned  Potatoes — {Whole). 

Boil  and  peel  some  large,  ripe  potatoes,  and  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour  before  a  piece  of  roast  beef  is  removed  from 
the  fire,  skim,  the  fat  from  the  gravy;  put  the  potatoes  in 
the  dripping-pan,  having  dredged  them  well  with  flour. 
Baste  them,  to  prevent  scorching,  with  the  gravy,  and 
when  quite  brown,  drain  on  a  sieve.  Lay  them  about  the 
meat  in  the  dish. 

Browned  Potato— (J/aaAerf). 
This  is  also  an  accompaniment  to  roast  beef  or  miittOB, 
Mash  some  boiled  potatoes  smoothly  with  a  little  milk,  pep- 


;dhyGoogle 


POTATOES.  217 

per,  rail,  and  a  boBrf  onion  (minced) ;  malie  into  smiOl 
wne>  or  Wis ;  Jonr  wM,  and  put  under  or  beside  tio 
meat,  half  an  lionr  or  so  bofor«  you  take  il  up.  Sldni  off 
all  the  fat  from  the  gravy  before  putting  them  in.  Drain 
them  dry  when  bro.u,  and  lay  around  tie  neat  when 
dished. 

These  are  nice  with  roast  spare-rib,  or  any  roast  pork 
that  is  not  too  fat. 

Broiled  Potatoes, 

Out  whole  boiled  potatoes,  lengthwise,  into  sKeos  i 

quarter  of  an  ineh  thick,  and  lay  upon  a  gridiron  over  a 

hot,  bright  Sre.     Brown  on  both  sides,  sprinkle  with  pej^ 

per  and  salt,  lay  a  bit  othuttor  upon  each,  »nd  eat  very  hot. 

Potato  Cakes. 

Make  coH  mashed  potato  into  fiat  eafces ;  Hour  and  fry 
m  lard,  or  good  sweet  dripping,  until  they  are  a  light-brown. 
Boast  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Select  those  of  uniform  size,  wash,  wipe,  and  r»a«  un- 
til  you  can  tell,  by  gently  pressing  tire  largest  between  the 
finger  and  thumb,  that  it  is  mellow  throughout.  Serve  in 
their  jackets. 

Sweet,  as  well  as  Irh^b  potatoes,  are  very  good  for  pie- 
ore  luncheon,  roasted  in  hot  adres.  This,  it  will  be  remem- 
bered, was  the  dinrer  General  Marion  set  before  the  Brit- 
ish officer  as  "  ,uite  a  feast,  I  assure  you,  sir.  We  don't 
often  fare  so  well  as  to  have  sweet  potatoes  and  salt." 

The  feast  was  cleansed  from  ashes  by  the  negro  orderly's 
shirt-sleeve,  and  served  upon  a  natui-al  trencher  of  pinoV 
bark.  *^ 

10 


H<V.i-d..yGooQle, 


218  ,  common  benbb. 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes, 
Bave  ihem  bH  as  nearly  the  same  size  as  possible  ;  fut 
inl*  cold  water,  -witkout  any  salt,  and  Tioil  until  a  fork  will 
easily  pierce  the  largest.  Turn  off  the  water,  and  lay  them 
in  the  oven  to  diy  for  five  minutes.  Peel  before  sending 
to  table. 

Or,  4- 
Parboil,  and  then  roast  until  done.  Tliia  is  a  wise  plan 
when  they  are  old  anr]  watery.  Boiling  is  apt  to  render 
them  tasteless.  Another  way  still  is  to  boii  until  they  are 
almost  done,  when  peel  and  hake  brown,  basting  them  with 
butter  several  times,  but  draining  them  dry  before  they  go 
to  the  table. 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes.  •$" 
Parboil  them,  skin,  and  cut  lengthwise  into  slices  i 
qiiarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Fry  in  sweet  dripping  or  bnttet. 
Cold  boiled  potatoes  may  be  cooked  in  this  way.  Or 
you  can  chop  them  np  with  an  eqnal  quantity  of  cold  Irish 
potatoes,  put  them  into  a  frying-pan  with  a  good  lump  of 
butter,  and  stir  until  they  are  hot  and  slightly  brown. 


CABBAGE. 

Boiled  Cabbage. 
Pick  off  the  outer  green  leaves,  quarter,  examine  care 
fully  to  be  sure  there  are  no  insects  in  it,  and  lay  for  an 
hour  in  cold  water.  Then  put  into  a  pot  with  plenty  of 
boiling  water,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Thi-ow  away  the 
water,  and  fill  up  the  pot  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle.  Cook 
until  tender  all  through.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  will 
lo  for  a  good-sized  cabbage  when  young.     Late  in  the  sea- 


.dhyGoogle 


Bon  joii  must  be  guided  by  the  tenderness  of  the  sta.lk 
Dr.  jn  well,  ckop,  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pep. 
per,  and  salt.  Serve  veiy  tot.  li  you  boil  corned  beef  oi 
pork  to  eat  with  cabbage,  let  the  second  water  be  takec 
from  the  pot  in  which  tiiis  is  cooking.  It  will  flavor  i' 
nicely. 

Always  boil  cabbage  in  two  waters. 

Bacon  asd  Cabbage. 

This,  I  need  hardly  say,  is  a  favorite  country  dish  at 
the  South,  The  old-fashioned  way  of  preparing  it  was  to 
boil  meat  and  cabbage  together,  and  serve,  reeking  with 
fat,  the  cabbagfl  in  quai-ters,  soakijig  yet  more  of  the  essence 
from  the  ham  or  middling  about  which  it  lay.  In  this  shape 
it  justly  earned  a  reputation  for  grossness  and  indigestibility 
that  banished  it,  in  time,  from  many  tables. 

Yet  it  is  a  savory  and  not  unwholesome  article  of  food  in 
winter,  if  the  cabbage  be  boilod  in  two  waters,  the  second 
being  the  "  pot-liquor  "  from  the  boOiug  meat.  Drain  thor- 
oughly  in  a  cullender,  pressing  out  every  di-op  of  water  that 
will  flow,  without  breaJdug  the  tender  leaves;  and  when 
the  meat  is  dished,  lay  the  cabbage  neatly  about  it,  and  upon 
each  quarter  a  slice  of  hard-boiled  egg. 

Wlen  you  eat,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar. 

Stuffed  Cabbage. 
Clioose  for  this  purpose  a  large,  firm  cabbage.  Take  off 
the.  outer  leaves,  and  lay  in  boiling  water  ten  miimtes,  then 
in  very  cold.  Do  this  several  hours  before  you  are  ready 
to  stuff  it.  When  perfectly  cold,  bind  a  bi-oad  tape  about  it, 
or  a  strip  of  muslin,  that  it  may  not  fall  apart  when  the 
Btalk  is  taken  out.  Eemove  this  with  a  thin  sharp  knife 
leaving  a  hole  about  as  deep  as  your  middle-fmger.     Wi-^Ji  out 


.dhyGooQie 


220  COMMON   SEH8E. 

widening  tlie  mouth,  of  the  aperture,  excavate  tie  centra 
until  you  have  room  for  four  or  five  tablespoonfula  of  the 
foi-ce-meat — more,  if  the  head  be  large.  Chop  the  bits  yor 
take  out  veiy  small;  mix  with  some  minced  cold  boiled  porfe 
or  ham,  or  cooked  sausage-meat,  a  very  little  onion,  pepper, 
Bait,  a  pinch  of  thyme,  and  some  bread-crumbs.  Fill  thi 
cavity  with  this,  biad  a  wide  strip  of  muslin  over  the  hole  in 
the  t  :>p,  and  lay  the  cabbage  in  a  large  saucepan  with  a  pint 
of  "pot-liquor"  from  boiled  beef  or  hain.  Stew  gently 
until  very  tender.  Take  out  the  cabbage,  unbind  cai'efully, 
and  lay  in  a  dish.  Keep  hot  while  you  add  to  the  gravy, 
when  you  have  strained  it,  pepper,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  and  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  rich  milk  or  cream. 
Boil  up,  and  pour  over  the  cabbage. 

"  CoLLARDs,"  OK  Cabuage-Spkol'ts, 

Pick  over  carefully,  lay  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted, 
half  an  hour;  shake  in  a  cullender  to  drain,  and  put  into 
boiling  water,  keeping  at  a  fast  boil  until  tender.  A 
piece  of  pork  seasons  them  pleasantly.  In  tliia  case  put 
the  meat  on  first,  adding  the  greens  when  it  is  parboiled, 
and  cooking  them  together.  Boil  ia  an  uncovered  vessel. 
Drain  very  well;  chop  and  heap  in  a  dish,  laying  the  meat 
on  top. 

Ladies'  Cabbage,  >$« 

BoU  a  firm  white  cabbage  fifteen  minutes,  changing  the 
water  then  for  more  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle.  When 
tender,  drain  and  set  aside  until  perfectly  cold.  Chop  fine, 
and  add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  rich  milk  or  cream.  Sfcir  all  well 
together,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish  untQ  brown. 
Eat  very  hot. 

jntiously  recommend  this  dish  even  to  thtis* 


.dhyGoogle 


OABBAGE.  221 

wlio  are  not  foiid  of  any  of  the  ordinary  preparations  of  cab 
bago.  It  i^  digestible  and  palatable,  more  nearly  reseia 
bJing  cauliflower  in  taste  tlian  its  coarser  and  eommoner 
cousin-  German. 

Fried  Cabbage. 

Chop  cold  boiled  cabbt^e,  and  drain  very  dry,  stirring 
in  a  little  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  with  three  or 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Heat  all  in  a  buttered  fry- 
ing-pan,  stiri-iijg  until  smoking  hot ;  then  let  the  mixture 
stand  just  long  enough  to  brown  sligiitly  on  the  underside. 
It  is  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  couple  of  beaten  eggs 
Turn  out  by  putting  a  fiat  dish  above  the  pan,  upside-down, 
and  reversing  tlie  latter. 

This  is  a  breatfaat-dish. 

Saueiucraut. 

Shred  or  chop  the  cabbage  fine.  Line  a  barrel,  keg,  oi 
jar  with  cabbage-leavea  on  the  bottom  ajid  sides.  Put  in  a 
layer  of  the  cut  cabbage,  three  inches  in  depth ;  press  down 
■well  and  sprinkle  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  salt.  Wheo 
you  have  packed  five  layers  in  this  way,  press  hard  with  a 
board  out  to  fit  loosely  on  tbo  inside  of  the  barrel  or  jar. 
Put  heavy  weights  on  this,  or  pound  with  a  wooden  beetle 
until  the  cabbage  is  a  compact  mass,  when  remove  the  board 
and  jiut  in  more  layers  of  salt  and  shred  cabbage,  repeating 
the  pounding  every  four  or  iive  layers,  until  the  vessel  is 
full.  Cover  with  leaves,  and  put  the  board  on  the  top  of 
Iheso  with  a  heavy  weight  to  keep  it  down.  Set  all  away 
to  ferment.  In  three  weeks  remove  the  scum,  and  if  need 
be,  cover  with  water.  Keep  in  a  cool  dry  cellar.  It  can  be 
eaten  raw  or  boiled,  and  seasoned  with  pork. 

This  is  the  mode  simple  if  not  pv/r  of  preparing  this,  to 
nostrik  unaccusfomed  to  it,  malodorous  compound.    Som< 


.dhyGoogle 


223 

Olid  to  tlio  salt  whole  Llact  peppers,  c'oves,  gai'lic,  and  mace 
— "  Liien  put  it  away,"  as  a  mild,  motherly  Teuton  dame 
oiici!  told  me,  "  ia  the  cellar  to  p — " — "  Rot  t "  interpolated  a 
disgusted  bystander,  anticipating  her  deliberate  utterance. 
"No,  my  dear,"  drawled  the  placid  Frau,  "to  ripen." 


CAULIFLOWER. 
Boiled  CAULirLOWEK. 

Pick  off  the  leaves  and  cut  the  stalk  close  to  the  botbom 
of  the  bunch  of  flowers.  Iiay  in  cold  water  for  half  aa 
bour.  Unless  very  large,  do  not  cut  it ;  if  you  do,  quartet 
it  neatly.  Tie  a  close  net  of  coarse  bobbiiiet  lace  or  tarla- 
tan about  it  to  prevent  breaking  or  bmising ;  put  into 
boiling  water  Baited,  and  cook  until  tender.  Undo  and  re- 
move the  net,  and  lay  the  cauliflower  in  a  hot  dish,  llave 
ready  a  large  cupful  of  nice  drawn  butter  and  pour  over  it. 

Cut  with  a  silver  knifo  and  fork  in  helping  it  out,  and 
give  a  little  of  the  sauce  to  each,  person.  Take  it  out  of  the 
water  as  soon  as  it  ia  done,  serve  quickly,  and  eat  hot.  It 
darkens  with  standing. 

Stewed  Cauliflower. 
Use  for  this  dish  the  smaller  and  more  indifferent  cauli- 
flowers. Cut  them  into  small  clusters ;  lay  in  cold  salt  and 
water  half  an  hour,  and  stew  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling 
water.  Turn  most  of  this  off,  leaving  hut  half  a  teacupful 
«  in  tlie  saucepan.  Add  to  this  a  lialf-cupful  of  milk  thick- 
ened with  a  very  little  rice  or  wheat  flour,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  bntter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Shake  the 
saucepan  over  the  fi.re  gently  until  it  boils ;  take  out  th8 
cauliflowers  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  lay  in  order  npon  t 
dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  tiiem. 


;dhyGoGgle 


VEGETABtEB. 


Scalloped  Cauliflower. 


Bdil  uutil  tender,  clip  into  noat  clusters,  and  pack — tht 
Btfias  downiTard — in  a  buttered  pudding- disli.  Beat  up  a 
cupful  of  bread-crumbs  to  a  soft  paste  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter  and  three  of  creani  or  milk  ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  bind  with  a  beaten  e^,  and  with  thi* 
cover  the  cauliflower.  Cover  the  disli  closely  and  bake  six 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven ;  brown  in  five  more,  and  serva 
very  hot  in  the  dish  in  which  they  were  baked. 

Broccoli  akd  Brussels  Spkouts, 
Pick  over,  wash  carefully,  cut  off  the  lower  part  of  the 
stems  and  lay  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted,  half  an  hour. 
Cook  quietly  in  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt,  until  tender. 
This  will  be  in  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes.  Cook  in  an  un- 
covered saucepan.  Drain  well,  lay  in  a  neat  pile  lightly 
heaped  in  the  centre  of  a  disl),  and  pour  drawn  butter  over 
them,  or  serve  tliis  in  a  tureen. 

Broccoli  abb  Eggs, 
Boil  two  or  three  heads  of  broccoli  until  tender.  Have 
ready  two  cupfuls  of  butter  drawn  in  the  usual  way,  and 
beat  into  it,  while  hot,  four  well-whipped  e^s.  Lay  but- 
tered toast  in  the  bottom  of  a  hot  dish,  and  on  this  the 
lai^est  head  of  broccoli  whole,  as  a  centre-piece.  Anange 
elose  about  this  the  others  cut  into  clusters,  the  stems 
downward,  and  jioui'  the  egg-sauce  over  all. 

Mashed  Turnips. 

Peel  and  lay  in  cold   water,  slightly  salted,   until   the 

water  boils  in  the  saucepan  intended  for  them.     Put  them 

in  and  boil  until  very  tender.     Tlie  time  will  depend  upon 

their  age.     Drain  and  mash  in  the  cullender  with  a  wooden 


.dhyGoogle 


224  COMIIOS   SETfBE. 

Bpoon,  stiL-iiug  in  at  the   last  a  tablospoonful  of  biittei 
with  pepper  aud  salt  to  taste,  and  serve  hot. 

If  eaten  with  boiled  corned  beef,  yon  may  tate  a  littlfl 
of  the  liquor  from  the  pot  in  which  the  meat  is  cooking; 
put  it  into  a  saucepan,  boil  up  once  to  throw  oil"  th* 
scum,  skim  clean,  and  cook  the  turnips  in  this. 

Or, 
If  the  turnips  are  young,  rub  them  when  tender  through 
the  cullender;  add  a  little  milk,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt; 
beat  to  boiling  in  a  clean  saucepan,  and  serve. 

YouKQ  Turnips  Boiled  Whole. 
Pare  smoothly,  and  tiim  all  into  the  same  size  and 
shape.  Lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour.  Put  on  in  boiling 
water,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  stew  until  tender. 
Drain  dry,  without  crushing  or  breaking  them ;  pile  in  a 
deep  dish,  and  cover  with  a  white  saiice  made  of  butter 
drawn  in  milk.     Turnips  should  he  eaten  very  hot  always. 

Boiled  Spisach. 

In  respect  to  quantity,  spinach  is  desperately  deceitful. 
I  never  see  it  drained  after  it  is  boiled  without  bethinking 
myself  of  a  picture  I  saw  many  years  since,  illustrative  of 
the  perils  of  innocent  simplicity,  A  small  (lucky)  boy  and 
big  (uiJucky)  one  have  been  spending  their  holiday  in  fish- 
ing. WLile  the  former,  well  satisfied  with  the  result  of  hia 
day's  jport,  is  busy  putting  up  his  i-od  and  tackle,  the  de- 
signing elder  dexterously  substitutes  his  own  string  of  min- 
nort's  for  the  other's  store  of  fine  perch.  The  little  fellow, 
turning  to  pick  it  up,  without  a  suspicion  of  the  cruel  cheatj 
makes  piteous  round  eyes  at  his  fellow,  ejaculating,  "How 
tiiey  Iiave  swhrvmk!  " 

A  yc-mg  housekeeper  of  my  acquaintance,  ordering  ■ 


.dhyGoogle 


TBGBTiBLia.  22J 

aprbg  diuLer  for  herself  and  husband,  purchased  a  ouart 
of  S])iiiacli.  Wlien  it  should  have  appeared  upon  the  t^ble, 
there  catae  in  its  stead  a  platter  of  sliced  egg,  she  haviug 
given  out  one  for  the  dressing.  "  Where  is  the  spinach  ?  " 
she  demanded  of  the  maid  of  all  work.  »  Under  the  egg, 
ma'am  !  "     And  it  was  reaUy  aU  tliere. 

Moral.— -Get  enough  spinach  to  be  visible  to  the  naked 
eye.     A  peck  is  not  too  niuch  for  a  family  of  four  or  five. 

Pick  it  over  very  carefully;  it  is  apt  to  be  gritty. 
Waeh  in  several  waters,  and  let  it  lie  in  the  last  half  an 
hour  at  least.  Take  out  with  your  hands,  shaking  each 
bunch  well,  and  put  into  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt. 
Boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  When  tender,  drain 
thoroughly,  chop  very  iine  ;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir 
until  very  hot,  tui-n  into  a  dish  and  shape  into  a  flat-topped 
mound  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon ;  slice  some  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  lay  on  top. 

Or, 
Rub  tlio  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  powder;  mix  with  butter, 
and  when  your  mound  is  raised,  spread  smoothly  over  the 
flat  top.  Four  eggs  will  dress  a  good-sized  dish.  Cut  the 
whites  into  rings  aud  garnish,  laying  them  on  the  yeUow 
surface.      This  makes  a  pleasant  dressing  for  the  spinach. 

Spinach  A  la  Cr£me. 
Boil  and  chop  very  fine,  or  rub  through  a  cullender. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  in,  while  warm,  three 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter  (this  is  for  a  large  dish).  Put 
into  a  saucepan  aud  heal,  stii-ring  constantly.  When  smok- 
ing hot,  add  three  tablespoonfida  of  cream  and  a  teaspoonful 
white  sugar.  Boil  up  once,  still  stin-ing,  and  press  firmly 
into  a  hot  bowl  or  other  mould.  Turn  into  a  hot  dish  and 
gamiali  with  boiled  e^s. 
10* 


.dhyGoogle 


COMMON   SENSE. 


(  Peas. 


Shell  and  lay  in  cold  water  until  you  are  ready  to  cooli 
them.  Put  into  salted  boiling  water,  and  cook  from  twe» 
ty  minutes  to  half  an  hour.  If  young  and  fresh,  the  short- 
er time  will  suffice.  If  just  gathei-ed  from  your  own  vines 
Wid  tender,  season  only  with  salt.  Mai'ket  peas  ai-e  greatly 
improved  by  the  addition  of  a  small  lum|i  of  white  sugar. 
It  improves  taste  and  color.  The  English  always  put  it  in, 
also  a  spi-ig  of  mint,  to  be  removed  when  the  peas  are 
dished.  Drain  well,  and  dish,  with  a  great  lump  of  butter 
elirred  in,  and  a  little  pepper.     Keep  hot. 

Pea  FitiTTERS  or  Cakes,  •{" 

Cook  a  pint  or  three  cups  more  peas  than  yon  need  for 
dinner.  Mash  while  hot  with  a  wooden  epoon,  seasoning 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Put  by  until  morning.  Make 
a  batter  of  two  whipped  eggs,  a  cupful  of  milk,  quarter  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  a  half  teaspoouful  cream  tartar,  and  half  a 
cup  of  flour.  Stir  the  pea-mixture  into  this,  beating  very 
hard,  and  cook  as  you  would  ordinary  giiddle-cakea. 

I  can  testify,  from  experience,  that  they  make  a  delight- 
ful morniag  dish,  and  hereby  return  thanks  to  the  unknown 
fiiend  to  whom  I  am  indebted  for  the  receipt. 


Cut  your  stalks  of  equal  length,  rejecting  the  woody  or 
lower  portions-,  and  scraping  the  white  part  which  remains. 
Throw  into  cold  water  as  yo\i  scrape  them.  Tie  in  a  bunch 
with  soft  strings — muslin  or  tape — and  put  into  boiling 
water  slightly  salted.  If  very  young  and  fresh,  it  is  well 
to  tie  in  a  piece  of  coarse  not  to  protect  the  tops.  Boil 
froni  twenty  to  forty  minutes,  according  to  the  age.  Just 
before  it  is  done,  toast  two  or  tliree  slices  of  bread,  o\ittin(| 


.dhyGoogle 


VBGETABLE8.  227 

off  iLi.  linst;  dijy  in  tJie  asparagus  liquor,  butter,  and  lai 
in  a  liot  <(isli.  When  you  take  otF  the  asparagus,  drain,  im 
biud  tlie  bundle,  and  lieap  it  upon  the  toast,  with  bits  of 
butter  between  the  stalks. 

Asparagus  and  Eggs. 
.Cut  twenty-five  or  thirty  heads  of  asj)aragua  into  bits 
half  an  inch  long,  and  boil  fifteen  minwtes.  Have  a  cup- 
ful of  rich  drawn  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  put  in.  the  as- 
paragus when  you  have  drained  it  dry.  Heat  together  to 
a  boil,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  into  a  but- 
tered bake-disb.  Break  five  or  six  eggs  carefully  oier  the 
sui-lkce ;  put  a  bit  of  butter  iipon  each  ;  sprinkle  witk  salt, 
and  popper,  and  put  in  the  oven  until  the  e^s  are  set, 

Or,  4. 
you  may  beat  the  eggs — yolks  and  whites  separately — 
to  a  fi-oth ;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  stir  them 
together,  -with  the  addition  of  three  tablespoonfula  of  milk 
or  cream,  and  pour  evenly  over  the  asparagus  mixture  in 
the  dish.  This  is  decidedly  the  better  way  of  the  two, 
ftlthoughTiomewhat  more  troublesome. 

AsPABAGUS  IS  Ambush.  «J« 
Cut  off  the  tender  tops  of  fifty  heads  of  asparagus ;  boil 
and  drain  them.  Have  ready  half  a  dozen  {or  moi-e)  stale 
biscuit  or  rolls,  from  which  you  have  cut  a  neat  top  slice 
and  scraped  out  the  crumb.  Set  them  in  the  oven  to  crisp, 
laying  the  tops  beside  tliem  that  the  cavities  may  be  well 
dried.  Meanwhile,  put  into  a  saucepan  a  sugarless  custard 
made  of  a  pint — if  you  need  so  much — of  milk,  and  four 
well-whipped  e^s.  Boil  the  milk  first,  before  beating  in 
the  eggs;  set  over  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  thickens,  when 
add  a  great  spoonfid  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  pepper; 


.dhyGoogle 


S-iO  COMMON    BEIJSB. 

lastlj-  the  asparagus  tops,  minced  fine.  Do  not  let  it  bui], 
but  take  from  the  lire  so  sooa  as  the  asparagus  is  faii-ly  in^ 
fill  the  roils  with  the  mixture,  put  on  the  tops,  fitting  them 
accurately ;  set  in  the  ovcii  three  minutes,  and  arrange  on 
a  dish,  to  bo  eaten  hot. 

Tlie  mnnlier  of  rolls  will  depend  upon  tlieir  size.  It  la 
better  to  have  them  smaU,  so  that  one  can  be  served  to  each 
person.     They  will  be  found  extremely  mce. 

Boiled  Onions, 
Cut  off  tops  and  tails,  and  skin  tliem.  Lay  in  cold 
■water  half  an  hoiir,  then  put  into  a  saucepan  witli  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  them.  Cook  fifteen  miiiutes  and 
drain  off  the  water,  re-covering  them  with  more  from  the 
boihng  tea-kettle.  Boil  until  a  straw  will  pierce  tliem  ; 
drain  ajid  put  into  a  dish  with  pepper,  salt,  and  plenty  of 
butter.    Send  aroimd  drawn  butter  with.  them.    Never  cook 

Stewed  Osions.  ■{« 

Young  onions  should  always  he  cooked  in  this  way ; 
Top,  tail,  and  skin  them,  lay  them  in  cold  water  half  aji  hour 
or  more,  then  put  into  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  enough 
to  cover  them.  When  half  done,  throw  ofi'  all  the  water, 
except  a  small  teacupful — less,  if  your  mesa  is  small ;  add 
a  like  quantity  of  milk,  a  great  s]K>onful  of  butter,  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Stew  gently  until  tender,  and 
turn  into  a  deep  dish. 

If  the  onions  are  strong  and  large,  boil  in  three  waters, 
throwing  away  all  of  the  first  and  second,  and  reserving  a 
very  little  of  the  tliird  to  mix  with  the  milk. 

It  ought  to  be  more  generally  known  that  the  disagreea- 
ble odor  left  by  any  of  the  onion  family  upon  the  breath 
may  be  remove<l  by  chewing  and  swallowing  a  few  graina 


.dhyGoogle 


of  roaHtcd  coffee.  No  more  nutritious  /cgetablo  ever  llnds 
iU  way  to  our  tables,  and  it  is  greatly  to  Le  regretted  that 
the  unpleasant  result  jus!  named  should  deter  so  many  from 
eatiiig  it.  It  is  especially  beneficial  to  brain- workers  and 
nervous  invaUda— tlie  very  people  who  are  least  litely  to 
^aste  it. 

Baked  Onioss, 
The  large  Spauish  or  Bermuda  onions  are  the  ouly  kinda 
wLich  are  usually  baked.  Wasli  clean,  but  do  not  i«move 
the  skins.  EoQ  an  hour— the  water  should  be  boiling 
when  tkey  are  put  in,  and  slightly  salt.  Change  it  twice 
during  this  time,  always  replenishing  with  more,  boiling- 
hot.  Turn  off  tlie  water,  take  the  onions  out  and  lay  upon 
a  cloth,  that  all  the  moisture  may  be  absorbed  or  evaporate. 
Roll  each  in  a  round  piece  of  buttered  tissue-paper,  twisting 
it  at  the  top  to  keep  it  closed,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
nearly  an  hour.  When  tender  all  through,  peel  them,  put 
them  into  a  deep  dish,  and  brown  slightly,  basting  with 
butter  freely.  This  will  take  perhaps  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
more.  Serve  in  a  vegetable  dish,  and  pour  over  the  melted 
butter,  wlieu  yon  have  sjJrinkled  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Stuffed  Obions. 
Wash  and  skin  veiy  large  Bermuda  onions.  Lay  in 
cold  water  an  hour.  Parboil  in  boiling  water  half  an  hour. 
Drain,  and  while  hot  extract  the  hearts,  taking  care  not  to 
break  the  outer  layers.  Chop  the  inside  thus  obtained  very 
fine,  -with  a  little  cold  fat  pork  or  bacon.  Add  bread 
crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  mace,  and  wet  with  a  spoonful  or  two 
of  cream.  Bind  with  a  well-beaten  egg,  and  work  into  a 
smooth  paste.  Stuff  the  onicjs  with  this;  put  into  a  drip. 
ping-pan  with  a  Tery  little  hot  water,  and  simmer  in  the 
oven  for  au  hour,  basting  oftfn  with  melted  bitter.     When 


.dhyGoogle 


230  OOMMOH   8EN8E. 

done,  take  tte  onions  up  carefully,  and  arrange  tlie  open 
ends  uppermost  in  a  vegetable  disli.  Add  to  the  gravy  in 
tlie  dripping-pan  the  juice  of  half  a  lemoii,  four  tahlespooii- 
fuls  of  cream  or  milk,  and  a  little  browned  flour  nvet  with 
cold  milk.     Boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the  onions. 

Stewed  Tomatoes.  bJ* 
Loosen  the  skins  by  pouring  scalding  water  upon  them; 
peel  and  cut  them  up,  extracting  the  cores  or  hard  part  o* 
the  stem-end,  and  removir^  all  unripe  portions.  Stew  in  a 
saucepan  (tin  or  porcelain)  half  an  hour,  when  add  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  and  a 
tablespoonfd  of  butt«r.    Stew  gently  fifteen  minutes  longer, 

Some  cooks  thicken  the  tomatoes  witli  a  little  gratei" 
bread,  A  minced  onion— a  small  one — improves  the  flavoi 
Another  pleasant  variety  is  to  put  a  quarter  as  mueh  green 
com  as  you  have  tomatoes  into  the  saucepan  when  it  is  first 
set  on  the  fii-e,  and  stew  gently, 

Stdffed  Based  Tomatoes,  a^ 
Choose  large,  smooth  tomatoes,  and  cut  a  thin  slice 
from  the  blossom  end  of  each,  laying  it  aside  for  further 
use.  Scoop  out  the  inside,  and  chop  fine  with  a  little  grated 
bread,  some  green  com,  salt,  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  white 
sugar,  and  a  tahlespoonful  butter.  Mix  well,  and  stuff  the 
hollowed  tomatoes.  Fit  the  top  on  neatly,  place  in  circu- 
lar rows  in  a  deep  dish  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
to  a  light  brown.  Fill  the  interstices  with  the  force-meat 
if  you  have  any  left,  before  you  bake.     Do  not  peel  them. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes.  "J« 
Peel  ami  cut  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.     Pack 
In  a  pudding-dish  in  alternate  layers,  with  a  force-meat  mad« 


.dhyGoogle 


T0MAT0E8.  331 

of  bread -crunibs,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  whit« 
sugar.  Spread  tliickly  upon  each  stratum  of  tomatoes,  and 
wlien  tlie  diali  is  nearly  full,  put  tomatoes  uppermost,  a 
good  bit  of  butter  upon  each  slice.  Dust  with  pepper  and 
a  little  sugar.  Strew  with  dry  bread-crumbs,  and  bake  cov- 
ered half  an  h  our ;  remove  the  lid  and  bake  brown. 

Scallop  of  Tomatoes  and  G-keen  Coen.  t|a 
This  is  made  as  above,  substituting  for  the  bread-crumba 
in  the  force-meat,  green  com  cut  fi-om  tlie  cob,  and  season- 
ing with  some  fat  pork  chopped  very  fine,  a  minced  shallot, 
pepper,  salt,  and  sugar.  Let  the  top  layer  be  tomatoes, 
butter  and  season,  and  sift  grated  bread-crumbs  over  it  to 
brown  the  scallop.  Bake  covered  half  an  hour ;  uncovee 
and  leave  in.  the  oven  as  much  longer.  This  time  is  for  a 
large  dishful. 

Broiled  Tojiatoks. 
Select  large,  firm  ones,  and  do  not  peel.  Slice  half  an 
inch  thick,  and  broil  upon  an  oyster  gridiron,  A  few 
minutes  will  suffice  to  cook  them.  Have  ready  in  a  cup 
some  hot  butter,  seasoned  with  pcjtpcr,  salt,  a  little  sugar, 
and  a  half  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard.  As  soon  as  the 
tomatoes  are  done,  dip  each  piece  in  tliia  mixture  and  lay 
upon  a  hot  chafing-dish.  When  all  are  dished,  heat  what 
remains  of  the  seasoning  to  a  boil,  pour  upon,  them,  and 
serve  at  once. 

Broiled  tomatoes  are  much  liked  by  those  w!io  have 
eaten  them  cooked  in  this  maimer. 

Baked  Tomatoes  {I'lain). 
Peel  and  slice  a  quarter  of  au  inch  thick.     Pack  in  a 
pudding-disli,  seasoning  each  layer  with  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
and  a  very  little  white  sugar.     Bake  covered  half  an  honi  ; 


.dhyGoogle 


23a  COMMON    SENSE. 

remove  the  lid,  and  biown  for  fifteea  minutes.  Five  hild- 
utoM  before  tjikiiig  from  the  oven,  pour  over  the  top  tlirei" 
or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  whipped  ap  for  a  i«v 
minutes  with  melted  butter. 

it  AW  Tomatoes. 

Do  not  loosen  the  skins  with  scalding  water.  It  im 
pairs  the  flavor  and  destroys  the  crispness.  Pare  with  a 
keen  knife,  slice  and  lay  in  a  glass  dish.  Season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar,  stirring  a  piece  of  ice  rapidly 
aronud  in  tlie  dressing  before  pouring  it  over  the  tomatoes, 
and  setting  the  dish  in  tlie  refrigerator  until  wanted. 

There  is  no  salad,  excepting,  perhaps,  lettuce  and  cucum- 
bers, that  is  more  inipi-oved  by  the  use  of  ice  than  tomatoes, 

lUw  Cl-cdmbeks. 

Pare  nca.tly  from  end  to  end,  and  lay  in  ice-water  one 
hour.  Wipe  them  and  slice  thin.  Season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  vinegar — and  oil,  if  you  wish — laying  some  bits  of 
ice  among  tliem,  with  thin  slices  of  onion.  Cncumbera 
shonld  he  gathered  while  the  dew  ia  on  them,  and  eaten  the 
same  day.  Leave  them  in  a  cool  place  until  you  are  ready 
to  pare  vhem, 

Fkied  Cuuumbers,  •{• 

Pare  and  lay  in  ice-water  half  an  hour.  Cut  length- 
wise into  slices  nearly  half  an  inch  thick,  and  lay  in  ice- 
water  ten  minutes  longer.  Wipe  each  piece  dry  with  a 
Boft  cloth,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  dredge  with 
flour.  Fry  to  a  delicate  brow  n  in  sweet  clarified  dripping, 
nice  lard,  or  butter. 

Many  declare  that  cucumbers  are  never  fit  to  eat  unless 
fried,  and  they  are  assuredly  far  more  wholesome  than 
when  served  raw. 


.dhyGoogle 


GMBBN  COEN.  233 

StEWKD   CtrcUMBEBS. 

Pare,  lay  in  ice-wat«r  an  hour ;  then  slice  a  quarter  ol 
an  inch  thick.  Pick  out  the  aeeda  with  a  pon-knife,  and 
jrat  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  boiling  water  to  covei' 
them.  Stew  fifteen  minutes,  and  drain  off  the  watei. 
Add  enough  from  the  boUing  tea-kettle  to  keep  them  from 
burnmg;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  carefully 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  hutter— or  two,  should  the  quantity 
of  cucumber  be  large.  Stew  gently  i«n  minutes,  and  add 
half  a  cupful  of  rich  milk  ;  thicken  with  a  little  flour, 
boil  lip,  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish,  squeezing  some  lemon- 
juice  in  at  the  last. 

This  is  a  popular  English  dish,  although  it  seems  a 
strange  one  to  Amei-ican  ideas. 

Boiled  Gbeen  Corn, 

Choose  young  sugar-corn,  full  grown,  but  not  hard; 
test  with  the  nail.  When  the  gi'ain  is  pierced,  the  inilif 
should  escape  in  a  jet,  and  not  be  thick.  Clean  by  strip- 
ping off  the  outer  leaves,  turn  back  the  innermost  cover- 
ing carefully,  pick  off  every  thread  of  silk,  and  recover 
the  ear  with  the  thin  husk  that  grew  nearest  it.  Tie  at 
the  top  with  a  bit  of  thread,  put  into  boiling  water  salted, 
and  cook  fast  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour,  in 
proportion  to  size  and  age.  Cut  off  the  stalks  close  to  the 
cob,  and  send  whole  to  table  wrapped  in  a  napkin. 

Or,  you  can  cut  from  the  cob  while  hot,  and  leason 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Send  to  table  in  a  root  oi 
vegetable  dish. 

CoiiN  AND  Tomatoes. 
Pake  equal  quantities  of  green  com  cut  from  the  <:r>b, 
i»nd  tomatoes  sliced  and  peeled.     Stew  together  half  an 


.dhyGoogle 


234  COMMON   8BNBE. 

hour;  Beason  with  pepper,  'alt,  antl  a  veri/  littli!  Bugai, 
Stow  fifteen  roiniites  longer,  and  stir  in  a  great  lump  ^f 
buttpr,     Five  noinutea  later,  pour  out  and  serve, 

Succotash. 
Tliia  ia  made  of  green  corn  and  Lima  beans,  althongL 
vou  can  substitute  for  the  latter  string  or  butter  beans 
Have  a  third  more  com  than  beans,  when  the  former  has 
been  cut  from  the  cob  and  tie  beans  shelled.  Put  imti 
boiling  water  enough  to  cover  them — no  more — and  stew 
gently  together  until  tender — perhaps  half  an  hour — stir- 
ring now  and  then.  Pour  off  neai-!y  all  the  water,  and 
add  a  large  cupful  of  milk.  Stew  in  this,  watching  to  pre- 
vent burning,  for  an  hour;  then  stir' in  a  great  lump  of 
butter,  a  tcaspoonful  of  flour  wet  with  cold  milk,  pepper 
ami  salt  to  taste.  Boil  up  once,  and  pour  into  a  deep 
vegetable-dish.  If  you  use  string-beans,  string  and  cut  up 
into  half-inch  lengths  before  cooking. 

Green  Corn  Puddikg.  "^ 

1  quart  milk. 
5  eggs. 

2  tablespooafuls  melted  butter. 
1  "  whit(i  sugar. 

Grate  the  corn  from  the  cob ;  beat  the  whites  and  yolks 
of  the  eggs  separately.  Put  the  corn  and  yolks  together, 
stir  hard,  and  add  the  butter  ;  then  the  milk  gradually, 
beating  all  the  while ;  next  the  sugar  and  a  little  salt ; 
lastly  the  whites.  Bake  slowly  at  first,  covering  the  dish, 
for  an  hoiir.     Eemove  the  cover,  and  brown  iinelf. 

This  is  a  most  delicious  accompaniment  to  a  meat 
oo'irse,  when  properly  mixed  and  baked.     Warm  up  what 


.dhyGoogle 


GBBEN   COEN.  200 

ia  left  from  dinner  for  breakikst,  by  aioistuning  it  with  a 
little  warm  milk  and  stirring  iji  a  saucepan  imtil  smokiu,'" 
Lot.  You  can  make  this  pudding  £i-om  canned  com  it 
wiittur. 

Gkeen  Corn  Fritters  or  Cakes.  •}• 

Grate  the  com,  and  allow  an  egg  and  a  half  for  every 
ciipful,  with  a  tablospoonful  of  milk  or  cream.  Beat  the 
eggs  well,  add  the  covn  by  degrees,  beating  very  hard ;  salt 
to  taste;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  to  every 
pint  of  com ;  stir  in  tlie  milk,  and  thicken  with  just 
enough  flour  to  liold  them  together— say  a  tablespoonful 
for  every  two  eggs.  You  may  fiy  in  hot  lard,  as  you  would 
fritters,  but  a  better  plan  ia  to  cook  upon  a  griddle,  like 
batter  cakes.  Test  a  Utile  fii'st,  to  see  that  it  is  of  the 
right  consistency. 

Eiaten  at  dinner  or  breakfast,  these  always  meet  with  a 
cordial  welcome. 

Stewed  Creen  Coatf. 

Cut  from  the  cob,  and  stew  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling 
water.  Turn  off  most  of  this,  cover  with  cold  milk,  and 
Btew  until  very  tender,  adding,  before  you  take  it  up,  a 
large  lump  of  butter  cut  into  bits  and  rolled  in  flour. 
Season  wibh  popper  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  five  minutes, 
and  serve. 

Cold  com  left  from  dinner  ahoidd  be  cut  from  the  cob 
and  stewed  a  few  minutes  in  a  little  milk,  adding  seasoning 
as  above.  Or,  you  can  mis  it  with  chopped  cold  potatoes — 
Irish  or  sweet ;  heat  a  piece  of  butter  or  beef-dri])piDg  in 
a  frying-pan,  and  stir  in  the  mixture  until  smcikiiig  liot. 
Never  throw  away  a  good  eh'  of  sweet  corn. 


;dhyGoogle 


COMMON   8ENSK. 


EoASTED  Green  Coen. 


a  back  ohG  haska  upon  the  stalk,  pick  off  tho  sili^ 
r  with  tlie  husks  closely  as  possible,  and  roast  iii  tha 
hot  ashes  of  a  wood-fire.  Eat  with  butter,  salt,  and  pep- 
per, out  of  doors,  in  the  forest,  or  on  the  beach. 

Salsify  or  OssTER-PiANi  {Stewed).  •}• 
Scrape  the  roots,  dropping  each  into  cold  water  as  soon 
US  it  is  cleaned.  Exposure  to  tho  air  blackens  them.  Cut 
in  pieces  an  inch  long,  put  into  a  saucepan  with  hot  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  and  stew  until  tender.  Turn  ofl 
nearly  all  the  water,  and  add  a  cupful  of  cold  milk. 
Stew  ten  minutes  after  this  begins  to  boil ;  put  in  a  great 
lump  of  butter,  cut  into  bits,  and  rolled  in  flour ;  pepi>er 
and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  up  once,  and  serve.  The  taste  ia 
curiously  like  that  of  stewed  oysters. 

Ekied  Salsify,  ob  Mock  Oysters.  •{» 
Scrape  tne  roots  thoroughly,  and  lay  in  cold  water  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes.  Boil  whole  until  tender,  drain,  and 
when  cold,  mash  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  a  smooth  paste, 
picking  out  all  the  fibres.  Moisten  witli  a  little  milk ;  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  an  egg  and  a  half  for  every 
cupful  of  salsify.  Beat  the  eggs  light.  Make  into  round 
cakes,  dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  brown. 

Fried  Egg-Plakt,  ■{• 
Slice  the  egg-plant  at  least  half  an  inch  thick ;  pare  each 
piece  carefuUy,  and  lay  in  salt  and  water,  putting  a  plate 
upon  the  topmost  to  keep  it  under  the  brine,  and  let  them 
alone  for  an  hour  or  more.  Wipe  each  slice,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  cracker-crumhs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  until  well 
done  and  nicely  bi\>wned. 


H..k.d.yGoogle 


Stuffbd  Eoo-Plamt. 
Parboil  for  ten  miuiitca.  Slit  each  down  the  side,  and 
extract  t!ie  seeds.  Pi'op  open  tlie  cut  with  a  bit  of  clean 
wood  or  china,  and  lay  in  cold  salt  and  wat«r  while  you 
prepare  the  force-meat.  Make  this  of  bread-crumbs),  minute 
bits  of  fat  pork,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  parsley,  and  a  vmy 
little  onion,  chopped  up  together.  Moistou  with  cream,  and 
bind  with  3.  beaten  egg.  Fill  the  cavity  in  the  egg-plant 
with  this ;  wind  soft  pack-thread  about  them  to  keep  the 
iilit  shut,  and  hake,  putting  a  little  water  in  the  dripping- 
pan.  Baste  with  butter  and  water  when  they  begin  to 
cook.  Test  with  a  straw  w}ien  they  are  tender,  and  baste 
twice  at  the  last  with  butter.  Lay  the  egg-plauta  in  a  dish, 
add  two  or  tlireo  tabic  spoonfuls  of  cream  to  the  gravy, 
thicken  with  a  little  flour,  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the  vegetable. 

Boiled  Carkots. 
Wash  and  scrape  well,  and  lay  in  cold  water  lialf  an 
Lour.  If  large,  split  them,  or  cut  across  in  two  or  three 
pieces.  Put  into  boiling  water,  slightly  salted,  and  boil 
until  tender.  Large  ones  will  require  nearly  an  hour  and 
a  half  to  cook.  Young  carrots  should  ODly  be  washed  be- 
fore they  arc  boiled,  and  the  skin  be  rubbed  off  with  a  cloth 
afterward.     Butter  well,  and  serve  hot. 

Stewed  Cameo  ts. 
Scrape,  and  lay  in.  cold  water  half  an  hour  or  moi'c. 
Boil  whole  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  drain,  and  cut  into 
round  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Put  on  in  a  sauce, 
pan  with  &  teacupfal  of  broth — veal,  or  beef,  or  mutton ; 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  stew  gently  half  an  hour.  Just 
before  they  are  done,  add  four  tables  poonfu  Is  cream  or  milk, 


.dhyGoogle 


«t»0  COMMON   SBHBB. 

anil  a  good  lump  of  butter  cut  iuto  bits,  and  rolled  iu  floui 
Boil  up  and  serve. 

If  you  have  uot  the  broth,  use  water,  aud  put  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  when  tho  saucepan  is  set  on  the  fire,  in 
addition  to  the  quajitity  I  have  specified. 

A-notliev  Way. 
Scrape  and  boil  until  nearly  done.  Cut  into  small 
squares,  and  put  into  a  saucepan,  with  two  small  omoas 
minced ;  a  little  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt  to  tast*, 
and  half  a  cup  of  rather  thin  drawn  butter.  Tliey  ^ull  le- 
quire  half  an  hour's  simmering.     Sei've  Uot. 


Mashed  Carrots, 
Wash,  scrape,  and  lay  in  cold  water  a  while.  Boil  very 
tender  in  hot  water,  slightly  salted.  Drain,  and  mash 
with  a  beetle  or  wooden  spoon,  working  in  a  large  spoonful 
of  butter,  with  pepper  and  salt.  A  little  cream  will  int 
prove  tliem.  Mound  aa  you  would  mashed  potatoes,  anii 
stamp  a  figure  upon  them,  or  mark  in  squares  with  a  knife. 

French,  or  String  oa  "  Skap  "  Beaus, 
Break  off  the  tops  and  bottoms  and  "  string  "  carefully. 
Tlten  pare  both  edges  with  a  sharp  knife,  to  be  certain  that 
no  remnant  of  the  tough  fi.bre  remains.  Not  one  cook  in 
a  hundred  performs  this  duty  as  deftly  and  thoroughly  as 
it  should  be  done.  I  have  heard  sevei-al  gentlemen  say  that 
tliey  could  always  tell,  after  the  first  mouthful,  whether  the 
mistress  or  the  hireling  had  "  strung  "  the  beans.  It  is  a 
tedious  aud  disagreeable  business,  this  pulling  bits  of  woody 
thread  out  of  one's  mouth  when  he  wants  to  enjoy  his  dinner. 
Cut  the  beans  thus  cleared  of  their  troublesome  aUncheg, 
in  pieces  an  inch  long,  and  lay  in  cold  water  with,  a  little 


.dhyGoogle 


TEQETABLBS.  239 

salt  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutea.  Drain  them,  and  put 
into  a  saucep<aii  of  boiling  wntur.  Boil  quickly,  twenty 
miiHitea  if  well-grown — less  if  small — at  any  rate,  nutil 
tender.  Drain  in  a  cuUeader  until  the  -water  ceases  to  diij, 
from  tLem.     Dish  with  a  great  spoonful  of  butter  stirred  iu. 

To  my  taste,  beans  need  to  Lave  a  hit  of  bacon  boiled 
with  them — whole,  or  chopped  into  hita  that  dissolve  in  the 
boiling.  It  mellows  the  rank  taste  you  seek  to  remove  by 
boiling, 

Lima  akd  Butter  Beans. 

Shell  into  cold  water ;  let  them  He  a  while ;  put  into  a 
pot  with  plenty  of  boiling  water  and  a  little  salt,  and  cook 
fast  nntil  tender.  Large  ones  sometinies  requiie  nearly  an 
hour  s  boiling.  The  average  time  is  forty  minutes.  Drain 
and  butter  well  when  dished,  peppering  to  taste. 

Kidney  and  other  Small  Beans. 
Shell  into  cold  water,  and  cook  in  boiling  until  tender, 
A  small  piece  of  fat  haj^on  boiled  with  them  is  an  advan- 
tage to  nearly  all.      If  you  do  this,  do  not  salt  them. 

Dm  ED    BjJANS. 

Wash  and  soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  water,  chang 
ing  it  several  times  for  warmer.  If  this  ia  done  they  will 
require  but  two  hours'  boiling.  Drain  very  thoroughly, 
pressing  them  firmly,  but  lightly,  in  the  cullender  with  a 
wooden  spoon;  mix  in  a  great  lump  of  butter  when  they 
are  dished. 

Boiled  Beets. 

Wash,  h\it  do  not  touch  with  a  knife  before  they  are 

Iwilod.     If  cut  while  raw,  tliey  bleed  themselves  pale  in 

the  hot  water.     Eoil  until  tender — if  full-grown  at  leas! 


.dhyGoogle 


ZVi  COUHON   SENBE. 

two  hours.  When  done,  rub  off  the  skins,  slice  round  if 
large,  split  if  young,  and  buttei'  well  in  the  dish.  Salt  and 
pejuier  to  taste. 

A  nice  way  is  to  slice  them  upon  a  hot  dish,  mix  a  great 
spoonful  of  melted  butter  witli  four  or  five  of  vinegar,  pop- 
per and  salt,  heat  to  boiling,  and  pour  over  the  beets. 

Instead  of  consigning  the  cold  ones  "left  over"  to  the 
swill  pail,  pour  cold  vinegar  upon  them  aaid  use  as  pickles 
with  cold  or  roast  moat. 

Stewed  Beets 
Boil  youQg,  sweet  beets,  until  nearly  done ;  skin  and 
gliee  them.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  minced  shallot  and 
parsley,  two  tablespoonfiils  melted  butter,  a  like  quantity 
of  vinegar,  some  salt  and  pepper.  Set  on  the  fire  and  sim- 
mer twenty  minutes,  shaking  the  saucepan  now  and  then. 
Servo  with  the  gravy  poured  over  them. 

Boiled  Pab snips. 
If  young,  scrape  before  cooking.  If  old,  pare  carefully, 
Hnd  if  large,  split.  Put  into  boiling  water,  salted,  and  boil, 
if  small  and  tender,  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
if  full-gix>wn,  more  than  an  hour.  "When  tender,  drainand 
elice  lengthwise,  buttering  well  when  you  dish. 

Feieu  Paeskips.  tj" 
Boil  until  tender,  scrape  off  the  skin,  and  cut  in  thick 
lengthwise  shees.     Dredge  with  flour  and  fry  in  hot  diip- 
jping  or  lard,  turning  when  one  side  is  browned.     Drain  aff 
0  ery  drop  of  fat ;  pepper,  and  serve  hot 


.dhyGopgle 


Taesnip  Fkitters.  4> 

Boil  tender,  mash  smooth  and  fiiio,  picking  owt  tha 
woody  bits.  For  three  large  pai-suijjs  allow  two°eggs,  one 
cup  rich  milk,  one  tablespoonfiil  butter,  one  t«aspooufui 
Halt,  three  tableapoonfula  flour.  Beat  the  eggs  liglit,  stir  in 
the  masJied  parsnips,  beating  hard;  tlien  the  butter  and 
tsalt,  next  the  milk,  lastly  the  salt.  Fry  aa  Mttoi-s,  or  as 
griddle-cakea. 

Mashed  Parsnips. 

Boil  and  scrape  them,  mash  smooth  witli  the  hack  of  a 
wooden  spooa,or  a  potato-beetle,  picking  out  the  fibres; 
mix  in  three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  great  sjioonful 
of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Heat  to  boiling  in  a 
saucepan,  and  serve.  Heap  in  a  mound  aa  you  would  po- 
tato  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

Buttered  Parsnips. 
Boil  tender  and  scrape.  Slice  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick 
lengthwise.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  three  tahlespoonfula 
melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley. 
Shake  over  the  fire  untQ  tlie  mixture  hoils.  Lay  the''pars- 
nips  in  order  upon  a  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  them,  and 
garnish  with  parsley.  II  is  a  pleasant  addition  to  this  dish 
to  stir  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream  into  the  sauce  after  the 
parsnips  are  taken  out ;  boU  up,  and  pour  upon  them. 

Boiled  Sea-eai.e. 
Tie  up  in  bunches  when  you  have  picked  it  over  care- 
fully, and  lay  in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Put  into  salted 
boiling  water,  and  cook  twenty  or  thiity  minutes  until  ten- 
der.  Lay  some  slices  of  buttered  toast  in  the  bottom  of  a 
iiah,  clip  the  threads  bindhig  Jhe  stems  of  the  sea-kale,  and 


.dhyGoogle 


312  COMMON   BEINBE. 

pile  upon  the  toast,  buttering  it  abundantly.     Or,  yon  wtn 
Bend  around  with,  it  a  boat  of  drawn  butter. 

Stewed  Sea-kale. 
Clip  off  the  stems,  wash  well,  tie  in  neat  bundles,  and 
when  it  has  lain  in  cold  water  an  hour  or  so,  put  into  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water,  slightly  salted.  Boil  fifteen 
minutes,  drain  well,  clip  thu  threads,  and  return  to  the 
saucepan,  with  a  little  rich  gravy  if  you  have  it.  If  not, 
pour  in  three  or  four  tablespoouftils  of  butter  drawn  in  milk, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  simmer  eight  or  ten  niinutea, 

AllTl  CHOKES. 

Strip  off  the  outer  leaves,  and  cut  the  stalks  close  to 
the  bottom.  Wash  well  and  lay  in  cold  water  two  hours. 
Immerse  in  boiling  water,  the  stalk-ends  uppermost,  with 
an  inverted  plate  upon  them  to  keep  them  down.  Boil  an 
hour  and  a  half,  or  until  very  tender.  Arrange  in  circles 
upon  a   dish,  the  tops   up,  and   pour   drawn  butter   over 

Summer  Squash  ob  Cymblinc. 
There  are  many  varieties  of  this  vegetable,  but  the  gen- 
eral rules  for  cooking  them  are  the  same.  Unless  they  are 
extremely  tender,  it  is  best  to  pare  them,  cutting  away  aa 
little  as  possible  besides  the  hard  outer  rind.  Take  out 
the  seeds,  when  you  have  quartered  them,  and  lay  the 
pieces  in  cold  water.  Boil  until  tender  throughout.  Drain 
well,  pressing  out  all  the  water ;  mash  soft  and  smooth,  sea- 
soning with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Do  this  quickly,  tiu»t 
you  may  serve  up  hot. 


.dhyGoogle 


TEOETABLEB. 


WiKTEB  Squash. 


Pure,  talce  out  the  seeds,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  stuw 
until  soft  and  tender.  UraLn,  press  well,  to  rid  it  of  all  tha 
water,  and  mash  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  It  will 
take  much  longer  to  cook  than  the  summer  squash,  and  be- 
fore yon  put  it  into  hot  water,  should  lie  in  cold  at  least 
two  hours. 

Stewed  Pumpkin. 

Cut  in  two,  extract  the  seeds,  slice,  awd  pare.  Cover 
with  cold  water  for  an  hour;  put  over  the  fire  in  a  pot  of 
boiling  water  and  stew  gently,  stirring  often,  until  it  breaJar 
to  pieces.  Drain  and  squeeze,  rub  through  a  cullender, 
then  return  to  the  saucepan  with  a  tahlespoonful  of  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Stir  rapidly  from  the  bottom 
imtil  very  hot,  when  dish,  rounding  into  a  mound,  with 
"  dabs  "  of  pepper  on  the  top. 

Baked  Pumpkin-. 

Choose  the  richest  pumpkin  you  can  find ;  take  out  tho 
seeds,  out  in  quarters  or  eighths,  pare,  and  slice  lengthwise 
half  an  inch  thick.  Arrange  in  layers— not  more  than  two 
or  three  slices  deep— in  a  shallow  but  broad  baking-disli. 
Put  a  very  little  water  in  the  bottom,  and  bake  very  slowly 
until  not  only  done,  but  dry.  It  requires  a  long  time, 
for  the  heat  sliouid  be  gentle.  Butter  each  strip  on  both 
Bides  when  you  dish,  and  eat  hot  with  bread  and  butter  for 
tea. 

I  have  been  assured,  by  people  who  have  tried  it,  that 
this  is  a  palatable  dish  to  those  who  are  fond  of  the  ilavoi 
of  pumpkin.  I  insert  it  here  upon  their  recommendation 
— not  my  own. 


.dhyGoogle 


2m  commoh  bense. 

Poke  Staxks. 
When  the  young  stalks  are  not  larger  than  a  man's  lit 
tie  finger,  and  show  only  a  tuft  of  leaves  at  top  a  fefl 
iiichea  ahove  ground,  is  the  time  to  gather  them.  ITiey  arf 
unfit  for  table  use  when  larger  and  older.  Scrape  the 
Btalks,  but  do  not  cut  off  the  leaves.  Lay  in  cold  water, 
witli  a  little  salt,  for  two  houra.  Tie  in  b  ndlcs  as  j  ou  do 
asparagus,  put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  cook 
fast  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Lay  buttered  t  aat  m  the 
bottom  of  a  dish,  untie  the  bundles,  an  I  pile  the  joko 
evenly  upon  it,  buttering  very  well,  and  si  imklnig  with  j  ep- 
per  and  salt.     This  is  a  tolerable  snhstitu-e  fcr  asj.aia^a. 

MUSIIHOOMS. 

Imprimis. — Have  nothing  to  do  with  them  until  yon 
are  an  excellent  judge  between  the  true  and  false.  That 
sounds  somewhat  like  the  advice  of  the  careful  mother  to 
her  son,  touching  the  wisdom  of  never  going  near  the  water 
until  he  learned  how  to  swim — but  the  caution  can  hardly 
bo  stated  too  strongly.  Not  being  ambitious  of  martyrdom, 
even  in  the  cause  of  gastronomical  enterprise,  especially  if 
the  instrument  is  to  be  a  contemptible,  rank-smelling  fun- 
gus, I  never  eat  or  cook  mushrooms ;  but  I  learned,  yeara 
ago,  in  hill-side  rambles,  how  to  distinguish  the  real  from 
the  spurious  article.  Shun  low,  damp,  shady  spots  in  your 
quest.  The  good  mushrooms  are  most  plenty  in  August 
and  September,  and  spring  up  in  the  open,  sunny  fields  or 
commons,  after  low-lying  fogs  or  soaking  dews.  The  top  ia 
a  dirty  white, — par  cotnplavianee,  pearl--color, — the  under- 
side pink  or  salmon,  changing  to  russet  or  brown  soon  after 
they  are  gathered.  The  poisonous  sport  all  colors,  and  are 
usually  far  prettier  than  their  virtuous  kindred.  Those 
which  are  dead-white  above  and  below,  as  well  as  the  stalk, 
are  also  to  be  let  alone. 


.dhyGoogle 


ucenBooMS.  211 

Cook  a  peeled  wliite  onion  in  the  pot  witli  your  miisli 
rooms.  If  it  turn  black,  throw  all  away,  and  be  properly 
tiiankfu!  for  your  escape.  It  is  also  deemed  safe  to  reject 
the  mess  of  wild  pottage,  if,  in  stirring  them,  your  silver 
spoon  should  blacken.  But  I  certainly  once  knew  a  ladj 
■who  did  not  discover  until  hers  were  eaten  and  partially 
digested,  that  the  silver  had  come  to  grief  iu  the  discliargi' 
of  duty.  It  ■was  very  dark,  and  required  a  deal  of  rubbing 
to  restore  cleaidiness  and  polish ;  btit  the  poison — if  death 
wei-e,  uideed,  in  the  pot — was  slow  in  its  otfects,  since  she 
lived  many  years  after  the  experiment.  It  is  as  well  per 
ha])S,  though,  not  to  repeat  it  too  often. 

To  re-capitulate. — The  eatable  ones  are  round  when 
t}iey  first  show  their  heads  in  a  critical  world.  As  they 
grow,  the  lower  part  unfolds  and  reveals  a  lining  of  salmon 
fringe,  while  the  stalk  and  top  are  dirty  white.  When  the 
mushroom  is  more  than  twenty-four  hours  old,  or  within  a 
few  hours  after  it  is  gathered,  the  salmon  changes  to  brown. 
The  skin  can  also  be  more  easily  peeled  from  the  edges  thaji 
in  the  spurious  kinds, 

S'jEivED  Mushrooms. 
Choose  button  muslirooma  of  uniform  size.  Wipe  clean 
and  wliite  with  a  wet  llannel  cloth,  and  cut  off  the  stalks. 
Put  into  a  porcelain  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and 
stew  very  gently  fifteen  minutes.  Salt  to  taste;  add  a 
tablespoon ful  of  butter,  divided  into  hits  and  rolled  in 
flour.  Boil  three  or  four  minutes;  stir  in  three  tablo- 
spoonfids  of  cream  wliipped  up  with  an  egg,  stir  two  min- 
utes witliout  letting  it  boil,  and  serve. 

Or, 
Rub  them  white,  stew  in  water  ten  minutes ;  strain  par- 
tially, and   cover  with   aa  much   warm   milk  as   you   havi 


;dhyGoogle 


246  COUMUH   BKKBB. 

poiwti  off  water;  stew  five  niinutes  in  this;  salt,  peppei^ 
and  add  some  veal  or  cticken  gravy,  or  drawn  butter 
Xliieken  witb,  a  little  Aomt  wet  ia  cold  milk,  and  a  beaten 
egg- 

Baked  Mushroom3. 

Take  firesL  ones,— the  size  is  not  very  important, — cut 
oif  nearly  all  tlie  stalks,  and  wipe  off  the  skia  with  wet 
dannel.  Arrange  neatly  in  a  pie-dish,  pepper  and  salt, 
sprinkle  a  little  mace  among  them,  and  lay  a  bit  of  buttei; 
upon  each.  Bake  about  half  an  hour,  basting  now  and 
then  with  butter  and  water,  that  they  may  not  bo  too  dry. 
Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they  were  baked,  with  maiire 
tfhdtd  sauce  poured  over  them. 

Broii^d  MusitnooMS. 

Peel  the  finest  and  freshest  you  can  get,  score  the  under 
side,  and  cut  the  stems  dose.  Put  into  a  deep  dish  and 
anoint  well,  once  and  again,  with  melted  butter.  Salt  and 
pepper,  and  let  them  he  in  the  butter  an  hour  and  a  half. 
Then  broil  over  a  clear,  hot  fire,  using  an  oyster-gridiron, 
and  turning  it  over  aa  one  side  browns.  Serve  hot,  well 
buttered,  pepper  and  salt,  and  squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon- 
juice  upon  each. 

Celery. 

Wash  and  scrape  the  stalks  when  you  have  cut  off  tlie 
roots.  Cut  off  the  green  leaves  and  reject  the  greenest, 
toughest  stalks.  ^Retain  the  blanched  leaves  that  grow 
nearest  the  heart.  Keep  in  cold  water  until  you  send  to 
the  table.  Serve  in  a  celery  glass,  and  let  ea^h  guest  dij)  in 
Bait  f^r  himself.      {See  Cdecy  Salad.) 


.yGoogle 


RADISH  j;8 OKEA.  241 

Eadisues. 
A  fi  iead  of  mine,  after  ma,ny  and  wof ul  triab  with  "  tlii. 
greatest  plague  of  life,"  engitged  a  supercilious  young  ladj 
who  "  ouly  hired  out  in  the  best  of  families  as  a  jirofessed 
cook."  She  arrived  in  the  aftenioou,  and  was  told  that  tea 
would  be  a  simple  aflair — bread-ajtd-hutter,  cold  meat,  cake, 
and  a  disli  of  radishes,  -wiiich  were  bi-ought  in  from  the  gar- 
den Ah  tlie  oi-der  was  given.  The  lady  waa  summoned  to 
the  pailoi  at  that  moment,  and  remaiked  in  leaving — "  You 
can  pitpare  those  now,  Biidgtt."  Awhile  later  she  peeped 
into  the  kitchen,  attracted  by  the  odor  of  hot  fat.  Tha 
frjiug-i>an  hissed  on  tlie  fii-e,  the  conteuta  were  a  half-pound 
of  butter,  and  the  "  professional "  stood  at  the  table  with  a 
radish  topped  and  tailed  in  one  hand,  a  knife  in  the  other. 
"  I'm  glad  to  see  ye,"  thus  aJie  greeted  the  intruder,  "  la 
it  paled  or  ore]>aIed  ye'll  have  tliem  radishes  ?  Some  of  the 
quality  likes  'em  fried  wid  the  skins  on — some  widout.  T 
tlioHght  I'd  wait  and  ask  yerself." 

My  readers  can  exercise  theii-  own  choice  in  the  matter 
of  peeling,  putting  the  frying  out  of  the  question.  Wash 
and  lay  them  in  ice-water  so  soon  as  they  are  gathered. 
Cut  olF  the  tops  when  your  breakfa.'rt  or  sujiper  is  ready, 
leaving  ahout  au  inch  of  the  stalks  on;  scrape  off  the  skin 
if  you  choose,  but  tlie  red  ones  are  prettier  if  you  do  not ; 
arrange  in  a  tall  glass  or  a  round  glass  saucer,  the  stalks  out- 
Bide,  the  points  meeting  in  the  centre;  lay  cracked  ice 
among  tliem  and  send  to  tjible.  Scrape  and  quarter  the 
large  white  ones. 

Good  radishes  are  crisji  to  the  teeth,  look  cool,  and  taste 
hot. 


EoU  the  young   pods,  tn   enough   salted   hot   water   to 
■ver   them,  until  tender.     Drain  thoroughly,  and   when 


.dhyGoogle 


248  COMUON   SESSB. 

dished  pour  over  them  a,  sauce  of  three  or  four  spooiifiJi 
melted  {aot  drawn)  butter,  &  tablospoonful  of  vinegar,  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste.  Heat  to  boiling  before  covering  the 
okras  with  it. 

Boiled  Hominy, 
The  lai^e  kind,  made  of  cracked,  not  ground  com,  is 
erroneously  termed  "  samp  "  by  Northern  gi'Ocera.  This  is 
the  Indian  name  for  the  fine-grained.  To  avoid  confusion, 
we  will  call  the  one  large,  the  other  small.  Soak  the  large 
over  night  in  cold  water.  Next  day  put  it  into  a  pot 
with  at  least  two  quarts  of  water  to  a  quart  of  the  hominy, 
and  boil  slowly  three  hours,  or  until  it  is  soft.  Brain  in  a 
cullender,  heap  in  a  root-dish,  and  stir  in  butter,  pepper,  and 

Soak  the  email  hominy  in  the  aama  way,  and  boiJ.  in  as 
much  water,  slowly,  stirring  very  often,  almost  constantly 
at  the  last.  It  should  he  as  thick  as  mush,  and  is  generally 
eaten  at  breakfast  with  sugar,  cream,  and  nutmeg.  It  is  ? 
good  and  exceedingly  wholesome  dish,  especially  for  chil- 
dren. The  water  in  which  it  is  boiled  should  be  slightly 
salt.  If  soaked  in  warm  water,  and  the  same  be  changed 
once  or  twice  for  warmer,  it  will  boil  soft  in  an  hour.  Boil 
in  the  last  water. 

Fried  Hominy. 

If  large,  put  a  good  lump  of  butter  or  dripping  in  the 
fiying-pan,  and  heat.  Tui-n  in  some  cold  boiled  hominy, 
and  cook  imtii  the  under-side  is  browned.  Place  a  dish  up 
side-down  on  the  frying-pan  and  upset  the  latter,  that  the 
brown  crust  may  be  uppermost. 

Eat  with  meat. 

Cut  the  small  hominy  in  slices  and  fry  in  hot  lard  ox 
drippings.  Or,  moisten  to  a  soft  paste  with  milk ;  beat  in 
Bome   meltiid   butter,  bind  with   a  beaten  egg,  form  intr 


.dhyGoogle 


HOMINY-   OEOQCJOTEa — BAKED    HOMINT.  249 

round  ciikes  with  your  hands,  dredge  with  flour  and  fry  a 
light  hrown. 

Hominy  Croquettes.  •$• 
To  a  cupf  al  of  cold  boiled  hominy  (small-gi-aiued)  add  a 
tablesjioonful  melted  butter  and  stir  hard,  moistening,  by 
degrees,  with  a  eujiful  of  milfe,  heating  to  a  soft  light  pasta 
Put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  and  lastly,  a  well- 
beaten  egg.  Roll  into  oval  balls  with  floured  hands,  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
Very  good  I 

Baked  Hominy.  >^ 
To  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  hominy  (small  kind)  allow 
two  cups  of  milk,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  white  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  three  eggs.  Beal 
the  eggs  very  liglit,  yolks  and  wliites  separately.  Work 
the  yolks  fiiat  into  the  hominy,  alternately  with  the  melted 
butter.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  put  in  sugar  ajid  salt, 
and  go  on  beating  while  you  soften  the  hatter  gradually 
with  the  milk.  Be  careful  to  leave  no  lumps  in  the  hominy. 
Lastly  stir  in  the  whites,  and  hake  in  a  buttered  pudding- 
diah  until  light,  firm,  and  delicately  browned. 

Tiiia  can  be  eaten  as  a  dessert,  but  it  is  a  delightful 
vegetable,  and  the  heat  substitute  that  can  be  devised  for 
green  corn  pudding, 

EicE  Choquettes.  "J* 
Half  a  cup  of  rice, 

1  pint  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 

3  eggs. 

A  little  grated  lemon-peel. 
1  tablespoonfiil  melted  butter. 
A  saltsi)oonful  salt. 


;dhyGoogle 


250  COMMON   6ENSE. 

Soak  the  rice  three  hours  in  w^tm  water  eno  gh  tc 
cover  it.  Drain  almost  dij,  and  j  nr  m  tlie  milk  Stew 
in  ii  farina-kettle,  or  one  saucepan  set  in  anotlicr  of  hot 
water,  until  the  rice  is  very  tendei  Add  the  Mi^ar,  biittbi 
and  salt,  and  simmer  ten  minuti^  Win  k  the  e,^  to  a 
froth,  and  add  cautiou-sly,  takin^j  the  saucej  aa  fiom  the  hie 
wJiilo  you  wliip  them  into  the  mixture  Ketiiin  to  tlie 
range  or  stove,  and  stir  wliile  they  tliieken,  not  allowing 
them  to  hoil,  Remove  the  saucepan,  and  add  the  giated 
lemon-peel;  then  turn  out  ujion  a  well  gi  eased  difeh  to 
cool.  When  cold  and  btiff,  floui  youi  hinds  ind  lolI  into 
oval  or  i>ear-shaped  balls,  dip  in  I  eaten  e_g,  then  in  fine 
ci-acker-orumba,  and  fry  m  nice  laid 

Or, 
You  can  make  a  plainer  dish  of  cold  boiled  rice,  mois- 
tened with  milk  and  a  little  melted  butter  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Add  sugar  and  salt,  bind  with  two  or  thi-ee  beaten 
eggs  ;  make  into  cakes  or  balls,  and  proceed  as  directed 
above.  Eat  hot  with  roast  or  boiled  fowls.  If  you  shape 
like  a  pear,  stick  a  clove  inthe  small  end  for  the  stem. 

Boiled  Rice. 

Pick  over  carefully  and  wasb  in  two  -waters,  letting  it 
stand  in  the  last  until  you  are  ready  to  boil.  Have  ready 
some  boiling  water  slightly  salted,  and  put  in  tlie  rice, 
Boil  it  just  twenty  minutes,  and  do  not  put  a  spoon  in  it, 
but  shake  up  hard  and  often,  holding  the  cover  on  with  the 
other  hand.  When  done,  drain  off  the  water,  and  set  the 
sauce-pan  uncovered  upon  the  range,  where  the  rice  will 
dry,  not  burn,  for  five  minutes. 

Eat  with  boiled  mutton  or  fowls. 


.dhyGoogle 


MAOAHONI,  25' 

Baked  Macaroni,  i^ 
Bieak  half  a  poiind  of  pipe  macaroni  iu  j)ieces  aa  inch 
long,  aniJ  put  into  a  saacepan  of  boiling  water  slightly 
Baited.  Stew  gently  twenty  minutes.  It  ehould  be  soft, 
but  uot  broken  or  split.  Drain  ■well  and  put  a  layer  in  tha 
bottom  of  a  buttered  pie  or  pudding-disli ;  upon  this  grate 
some  mild,  rich  cheese,  aad  scatter  over  it  some  bits  oi 
butter.  Spread  upon  the  cheese  more  macaroni,  and  £11 
the  dish  in  this  order,  having  macaiom  at  tho  tx.p,  lut 
tered  well,  without  the  cheese.  Add  i  few  spoonfuls  o( 
cream  or  milk,  and  a  very  little  salt  Cai.e  co\  ered  hall 
au  hour,  then  brown  nicely,  and  serve  in  the  hiiLe  dish 

Stewed  Macaroni — Italian  St\le 
Break  the  macaroni  into  inch  lengtli-i  and  stew  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  tender.  Prepare  the  sa\ice  befoiehand 
Out  lialf  a  pound  of  beef  into  strips  and  ste«  1  t\  an  hour 
The  water  should  be  cold  when  the  mi^it  is  i  +  1 1  At  the 
end  of  that  time,  add  a  minced  onion  ind  a  ,  nt  of  toma 
toes  peeled  and  sliced.  Boil  for  in  lioin,  an  I  striin 
through  a  cullender  when  yon  have  tiken  out  the  meat. 
The  sauce  should  be  well  boiled  down  by  this  time  You 
do  not  want  more  than  a  pint  fora  laige  dLsli  of  macaioni 
Eeturn  the  liquid  to  the  saucepan,  adl  a  ^cia  ^lece  ol 
butter,  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stew  until  you  are  ready 
to  dish  the  macaroni.  Drain  this  well,  sprinkle  lightly 
with  salt,  and  heap  upon  a  chafing-dish  or  in  a  loot-dish 
Pour  the  tomato  sauce  over  it ;  covei  ind  let  it  stand  m  a 
warm  place  ten  minutes  before  sendit  g  tj  table  Send 
ground  grat«d  cheese  with  it.  The  Italians  serve  the  meat 
fclso  in  a  separate  dish  as  a  ragoQt,  adding  some  of  tlie  sauce, 
oighly  seasoned  with  pepper  and  other  spices. 


.dhyGoogle 


353  OOUMON   SENSE. 

Macaboki  i  LA  CrbMe.  ■{< 

('ock  the  macaroni  ten  miowtea  in  fcoiliiig  water 
J»/ain  this  off,  aad  &dd  a  cupful  of  milk,  with  a  little  salt 
Stew  until  tender,  Iti  another  saucejian  heat  a  cup  ol 
■:ni!k  to  boiling,  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  stir  in 
a  tahlespoouful  of  butter,  and  lastly,  a  beaten  egg.  When 
this  tliiekens,  pour  over  the  macaroni  after  it  is  dished. 

This  is  a  simple  and  good  dessert,  eaten  with  butter, 
sugar,  and  nutmeg,  or  sweet  saiiee.  If  set  on  with  meat, 
grate,  cheese  thickly  over  it,  or  send  around  a  saucer  of 
grated  cheese  with  it. 

Eggs. 

To  guess  (I  do  not  say  deteimine)  whether  an  ei;g  is 
good,  .?hut  one  eye;  fiame  the  egg  m  the  hollow  of  the 
hand,  telescope-wise,  and  look  at  the  sun  tliiough  it  witli 
the  ojiea  eye.  If  you  um  distinctly  ttace  the  outline 
of  the  yoft  and  the  white  looks  clear  around  it,  the  chances 
are  in  favor  of' the  egg  and  the  buyer.  Or,  shake  it  gently 
at  your  ear.  If  addled,  it  will  gurgle  like  water ;  if  there 
is  a  chicken  inside,  you  may  distinguish  a  slight  "  thud  " 
against  the  sides  of  the  e^.  Or,  still  again,  you  may  try 
eggs  from  your  own  poultry-yard  by  putting  them  into  a 
pan  fif  cold  water.  The  freshest  sink  first.  Those  tliat 
float  are  questionable — generally  worse. 

The  best  plan  is  to  break  them.  In  making  cake,  or 
anything  tliat  requires  more  than  one,  break  each  over  a 
saucer,  that  it  may  be  alone  ia  its  condemnation,  if  bad, 
Reject  doubtful  ones  without  hesitation.  Yield  implicit 
trust,  or  none  at  all. 

"Keep  eggs  in  a  cool,  not  cold  place.  Pack  in  bran  or 
salt,  with  the  small  end  downward,  if  you  wish  to  use  within 
two  or  three  weeks;  and  furtlierrnove,  take  the  preoaution 
to  grease  thein  well  with  liuseed  oil,  or  wash  th'tm  ov<;['  with 


;dhyGoogle 


BOGS.  253 

n  weiik  Boltitioii  of  gmu  tragacantli  or  varnisli,  Tliis  eX' 
eludes  ihe  air.  Another  way  is  to  make  some  jiretty  strono 
lime-water,  allowing  a  pound  of  lime  to  a  gallon  of  boiling 
water.  When  perfectly  cold,  fill  a  large  jar  with  it  in 
which  you  have  ]iackod  the  eggs,  small  end  downward;  lay 
a  light  saucer  upon  the  top  to  keep  them  under  water,  and 
keep  in  a  cool  place.  Renew  the  lime-water  every  three 
weeks.     You  may  add  an  ounce  of  saltpetre  to  it. 

Eggs  for  boiling  may  be  "  canoed  "  as  follows ;  So  soon 
AS  they  are  brought  in  from  the  nests,  put  two  or  three 
dozen  at  a  time  in  a  deep  pan ;  pour  scalding  water  over 
them;  let  it  stand  thirty  seconds,  and  turn  it  all  off.  Cover 
immediately  with  more  scalding  water,  and  repeat  the  pro- 
cess yet  the  third  time.  Wipe  dry,  and  pack  in  bran  oi 
salt  when  they  cool.  This  hardens  the  albumen  into  an 
air-tight  case  for  the  yolk.  Of  course,  you  cannot  use  these 
^gs  for  cake  or  syllabubs,  or  anything  tliat  is  jii-ejiai-ed 
with  whipped  eggs.     Pack  with  the  small  end  down. 

Boiled  Egos. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  of  hoiling  water  with  a 'tablespoon, 
not  to  break  or  crack  them.  Only  a  slovenly  cook,  or  a 
careless  one,  drops  them  in  with  her  fingers.  Boil  steadily 
three  minutes,  if  you  want  them  soft — ten,  if  hard. 

Another  way  is  to  put  them  on  ia  cold  water,  and  let  it 
eome  to  a  boil,  which  wiO  be  in  ten  minutes.  The  inside, 
white  and  yolk,  will  be  then  of  the  consistency  of  custard. 
Many  gourmands  like  them  best  thus.  Still  another  is  to 
put  them  in  one  of  the  silver  egg-boilei's  used  on  the  break- 
fast-tahle  (a  covered  bowl  will  do  as  well) ;  cover  them 
with  boiling  water,  and  let  them  stand  three  minutes. 
Pour  this  off,  and  refill  with  move,  also  boiling  hot,  and 
leave  them  in  it  five  minutes  longer.  Wrap  in  a  natikio 
in  a  deep  ditih,  if  you  have  nut  a  i-egular  egg-dish. 


.dhyGoogle 


DnoppED  OR  Poached  Eogs. 
Strain  some  boiling  water  into  a  frying-paji,  wldch  must 
also  be  pei-fcctly  clean.  The  least  impurity  will  mac  tlie 
wlxitenosa  of  tlie  e^s.  When  the  water  boils,  break  the 
eggs  separately  into  a  saucer.  Take  the  fiying-pan  off,  and 
slip  the  eggs,  one  by  one,  carefully  upon  the  Eurfec-e.  When 
all  we  in,  put  back  over  the  fire  and  boil  gently  three  min- 
utes. Take  oiit  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  drain,  and  lay 
upon  slices  of  buttered  toast  in  a  hot  disli.  Garnish  with 
parsley,  and  dust  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Poached  Egos  A  ia  CKfiME.  "Jt 
Nearly  fill  a  clean  frying-pan  with  strained  water  boil- 
ing-hot ;  strain  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  through  doublt 
muslin,  and  add  to  the  water  witli  a  little  salt.  Slip  your 
eggs  from  the  saucer  upon  the  top  of  the  water  (first  tak- 
ing the  pan  fi-om  the  fire).  Boil  three  minutes  and  a  half, 
drain,  and  lay  on  buttered  toast  in  a  hot  dish.  Turn  the 
water  from  the  pan  and  pour  in  half  a  cupful  of  cream  or 
milk.  If  you  use  the  latter,  thicken  with  a  very  littla 
(om-ilarch.  Let  it  heat  to  a  boil,  stirring  to  prevent  biim- 
iug,  and  add  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  some  pej>per  anil 
salt.  Boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the  eggs.  A  better  waj 
Rtill  is  to  heat  the  milk  in  a  separate  saucepan,  that  the 
eggs  may  not  have  to  stand.     A  little  broth  improves  the 

Haji  and  Eggs. 
Fiy  tlie  eggs  in  a  little  very  nice  salted  lard ;  drain  olf 
every  dro])  of  grease,  and  lay  them  upon  a  hot  dish,  with 
neat  slices  of  fried  ham  around  the  edges,  half  the  size  of 
the  slice  as  first  carved  from  the  hiun.  Trim  off  the  rough 
edges  ol'  the  eggs,  and  cut  the  ham  evenly  in  oblong  pieces, 
bgfoie  disliiiLg      Oai-uish  with  jiyraley. 


.dhyGoogle 


Fried  Eggs. 
Melt  some  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  ifc  hissea. 
di  if  in  tLe  eggs  cai-efnily.     Pry  three  minutes ;  dust  with 
pei>]ier  and  salt,  and  transfer  to  a  hot  dish. 

Fricasseed  Eggs.  ^ 

Eoil  the  eggs  hard,  cut  in  half  crosswise,  and  take  ou 
the  yolks.  Chop  these  fine,  or  rub  to  a  paste,  with  a  little 
gi-ound  tOQgue  or  ham  or  cold  fowl,  some  loinced  parsley, 
some  melted  butter,  and  a  veri/  little  made  mustard.  Work 
well  together  and  fill  the  whites  with  it,  setting  them  close 
togetlier  iu  a  deep  covered  dish,  the  open  ends  up.  Have 
ready  some  veal  gravy  or  chicken  broth ;  heat  to  boiling  in 
a  saucepan  with  a  half  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  salt, 
pepper,  and  lastly  three  tablespooufula  of  cream  to  a  cup 
of  broth,  Eoil  up ;  pour  smoking  hot  over  the  eggs,  let 
them  staud  five  minutes,  closely  covered,  and  send  to  table. 

This  is  not  an  expensive  dish.  Eggs  are  always  a 
cheaper  breakfast-dish  for  a  small  family  than  meat,  even 
at  fifty  cents  a  dozen.  Six  will  make  a  nice  quantity  of 
the  fricassee,  and  it  is  a  delicious  relish.  Always  drop 
hard-boiied  eggs  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  they  are  done, 
to  prevent  the  yolks  from  turning  black, 

Bbeaded  Eggs.  4* 
Boil  hard,  and  cut  in  round  tblck  slices.  Pepper  and 
salt ;  dip  each  in  beaten  raw  egg,  then  in  fine  bread-crumbs 
or  powdered  cracker,  and  fry  in  nice  dripping  or  butter, 
hissing  hot.  Drain  off  every  drop  of  grease,  and  serve  on 
a  hot  dish  for  breakfast,  with  sauce,  like  tliat  for  fiioasseed 
^gg^j  poured  over  them. 


.dhyGoogle 


COMMON    BENSB. 


Baked  Eggs. 


Break  six  or  se^eii  eggs  into  a  butteied  dish,  taking 
care  tkat  ev.h  is  «hole,  iiiii  loea  not  encroach  upon  the 
otheiB  &o  muck  a?  to  nm  oi  distuib  the  yolka  Sprinkle 
w  ith  pepper  md  salt,  ind  ]mt  a  Int  of  butter  upon  each 
Put  into  an  men  and  bike  until  the  w kites  are  well  set 
bene  very  kotj   nitk  tounds  of  butteied  toast,  oi   sand 

Scrambled  Eggs,  iji 
Put  a  good  piece  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  wken  it 
is  kot  drop  in  the  e^s,  which  should  be  broken  whole  into 
a  bowl.  Stir  in  with  tkeiu  a  little  chopped  parsley,  soma 
pepper  and  salt,  and  keep  stirring  to  and  fro,  \ip  and  down, 
without  cessation,  for  three  minutes.  Turn  out  at  once 
into  a  hot  dish,  or  upon  buttered  toast,  and  eat  without 

CniNESE  Bird's-Nest  of  Egos. 
Make  a  white  sauce  as  follows  Stew  half  a  pound  of 
lean  veal,  cut  nito  stiips,  with  a  laige  ''pug  of  parsley,  in  a 
quart  of  water,  until  the  meat  is  in  rairs,  and  tlie^  liquor 
reduced  one-half  Stiam  thiough  tailatan  or  Kch,  and 
return  to  the  saucepan  with  half  a  cupful  of  unlk  "W  hen 
it  boils,  thicken  with  a  little  rice  or  wheat  flour,  season 
with  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Set  in  the  corner  to  keep  hot.  Have  reaily  six,  or  eighty 
or  ten  hard-boiled  e^s.  Take  out  the  yolks  carefully,  and 
cut  the  whites  into  thin  shreds.  Pile  the  yolks  in  the  cen- 
tre of  a  round,  shallow  dish,  arrange  the  shreds  of  white 
fcbout  them  in  the  shape  of  a  bird's-nest;  give  a  final  stir 
to  the  sauce,  and  pour  carefully  over  the  eggs.  It  should 
not  rise  higher  in  the  dish  than  half  way  to  the  top  of  tha 
nest,  when  it  flo'vra  down  to  its  level.     Garnish  with  ]iars 


.dhyGoogle 


EGG8.  257 

ScAiiOPED  Eccs.  •}■ 
Make  a  force-meat  of  chopped  ham— groiinii  is  better- 
fine  bread-crutuba,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  minced  parsley,  and 
Boine  melted  butter.  Moisten  ivith  milk  to  a  soft  paste, 
iind  half  fill  some  patty-pans  or  scallop-sheOs  with  the  mix- 
ture. Break  an  egg  carefully  upon  the  top  of  each,  dust 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  sift  some  very  finely  powdered 
cracker  over  all.  Set  in  the  oven,  and  hake  until  the  egga 
are  well  set — about  eight  minutes.  Eat  Lot.  They  are 
very  nice.     You  can  substitute  ground  tongue  for  the  ham. 

Poached  Eggs,  with  Sauce.  r}« 
Make  the  sauce  by  putting  half  a  cupful  of  hot  water 
in  a  saucepan,  ivith  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  veal  or  chicken  broth  (strained),  pepper, 
salt,  mace,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  a  little 
minced  parsley.  BoO  slowly  ten  minutes,  and  stir  in  a 
well-whipped  e^  carefully,  lest  it  should  curdle.  Have 
ready  some  poached  eggs  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  them. 

Egoh  upon  ToAar,  >^ 
Put  a  good  lump  of  butter  into  the  frying-pan.  ^Vlen 
it  is  hot,  stir  in  four  or  five  well-beaten  eggs,  with  pe]>por, 
salt,  and  a  little  parsley.  Stir  and  toss  for  three  minutes. 
Have  ready  to  your  hand  some  slices  of  buttered  toast  (cut 
round  with  a  tin  cake-cutter  before  they  are  toasted)  ; 
Bpread  thickly  with  ground  or  minced  tongue,  chicken,  or 
ham.  Heap  the  stirred  egg  upon  these  in  mounds,  and  set 
in  a  hot  dish  garnished  with  parsley  and  pickled  beets. 

Eggs  au  Lit  {in  bed).  4" 
Mince   some   cold   fowl— chicken,  turkey,  or  duck   (or 
aome  cold  boiled  veal  and  ham  in  equal  qvantities) — veij 


.dhyGoogle 


fiiii>,  an(5  rub  in  a  Wcdgewood  mortar,  adding  by  degieei 
BOiiie  melted  butter,  pojiper,  salt,  minced  parsley,  and  two 
beaton  eggs.  Warm  in  a  fi^iiig-paii  when  it  is  well  mixed, 
Rtii'iing  in  a  little  hot  ^vater  should  it  dry  too  fast.  Cook 
five  minutes,  stimng  to  keep  it  from  scorching  or  brown- 
ing. Form,  on  a  hot  platter  or  Bat  dish,  into  a  mound,  flat 
on  top,  with  a  ridge  of  tlie  miirture  running  all  around.  It 
is  easily  moulded  with  a  broad-bladed  knife.  In  the  dish 
tlius  formed,  on  the  top  of  the  mince-meat,  lay  as  many 
ponched  eggs  as  it  -will  hold,  sprinkling  them  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Arrange  triangles  of  buttered  toast  in  such 
order,  at  the  base  of  the  mound,  that  they  shall  make  a 
pointed  wall  against  it. 

Devilled  Eggs. 
Boil  six  or  eight  eggs  hard  ;  leave  in  cold  water  until 
Uiey  are  cold  ;  cut  in  halves,  slicing  a  bit  off  the  bottoms 
to  make  them  stand  upright,  a  la  Columbus,  Extraot  the 
yolks,  and  rub  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  very  little  melted 
butter,  some  cayenne  pepper,  a  touch  of  mustard,  and  just 
a  dash  of  vinegar.  Fill  the  hollowed  whites  vrith  this,  and 
send  to  table  upon  a  bed  of  chopped  cresses,  seasoned  with 
pepper,  salt,  vinegar,  and  a  little  sugar.  The  salad  should 
be  two  inches  thick,  and  an  egg  be  served  with  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  it.  You  may  use  lettuce  or  white  cab- 
bage instead  of  cresses, 

Egg-Baekets.  »J" 
Make  these  for  breakfast  the  day  after  you  have  bad 
roast  chicken,  duck,  or  turkey  for  dinner.  Boil  blx  eg<;a 
hard,  CTit  neatly  in  half  and  extract  the  yolks.  Rub  these 
to  a  paste  with  some  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt, 
«id  set  aside.     Pound  the  minced  meat  of  the  cold  fow' 


.dhyGoogle 


fiitc  ill  the  same  maimer  and  mix  with  the  egg-paste,  moisti 
eniiig  with  melt«d  butter  as  you  proceed,  or  ivitli  a  littla 
giiivy,  if  you  have  it  to  qjare.  Cut  off  a  slice  from  tha 
Ijuttouis  of  the  hollowed  whites  of  the  egg,  to  make  them 
stiuiil ;  fill  with  the  paste ;  arrange  close  together  upon  a 
tiat  disli,  and  pour  over  them  the  gravy  left  from  yester- 
day's  roast,  heated  boiling  hot,  and  mellowed  by  a,  few 
spoonfuls  of  ci-eam  or  rich  milk. 

OsiELETTE  {plain).  «}• 
Beat  six  eggs  very  light,  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  that 
will  stand  sdone,  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  thick  batter.  Add  to 
the  yolks  a  small  cupful  of  milk,  pepper  and  salt,  lastly  stir 
in  the  whites  lightly.  Have  ready  in  a  hot  frying-pan  a  goc'l 
lump  of  butter.  Wheu  it  hisses,  pourin  yourmixture  gen- 
tly and  set  over  a  clear  fire.  It  should  cook  in  ten  minutea 
at  most.  Do  not  stir,  but  contrive,  as  the  eggs  "  set,"  to 
shp  a  broad-birtded  knife  under  the  omelette  to  guard  against 
bui-aing  at  the  bottom.  The  instant  "  hiss  "  of  the  butter 
as  it  flows  to  the  hottest  part  of  the  pan  will  prove  the  wis- 
dom and  efficacy  of  the  precaution.  If  your  oven  is  hot 
you  may  put  the  frying-pan  in  it  as  soon  as  the  middle  ol 
the  omelette  is  set.  When  done,  lay  a  hot  dish  bottom  up- 
ward on  the  top  of  the  pan,  and  dexterously  upset  the  latter 
to  biing  the  browned  side  of  the  omelette  uppermost.  Eat 
soon,  or  it  will  fall. 

I  know  these  directions  to  be  worthy  of  note.  I  have 
never  seen  lighter  or  better  omelettes  anywhere  tliaji  in 
households  where  these  have  been  the  rule  for  yeara  in  the 
aianufacture  of  this  simple  and  delightful  artiele  of  food. 

Omelette  with  Ham,  Tosgite,  ok  Chicken.  •}■ 
Make  precisely  as  above  ;  but  when  it  is  done,  scattei 
thickly  over  the  surface  some  minced   ham,  tongue,  cr  8oa 


.dhyGoogle 


260  COMMON   SENSE. 

soiled  chicken,  slip  your  broad  knife  under  one  side  of  th« 
omelette  and  double  in  lialf,  enclosing  the  meat.  Then  up 
set  the  frying-]>an  uj>oii  a,  hot  dish. 

Or, 
You  can  stir  the  minced   meat   into  the  omelette   aftei 
all   tlie  ingredients   are   put   togetlier,  adding,  if  you  like, 
some  chopped  parsley, 

Cauli  FLOWER  Ojielette. 
Chop  some  cold  cauliflower  very  fine,  and  mix  in  when 
your  omelette  is  ready  to  go  into  the  pan.     Season  highly 
with  Cayenne  pepper  and  salt. 

Asparagus  Omelette 
Is  made  of  the  tops  only,  minced  and  seasoned,  and  stirred 
in  as  ia  the    cauliflower.      Tomato    omelette    has    stewed 
tomato  spread  over  tiie  surface,  and  ia   then   doubled   in 
half. 

Egg-balls  for  Soup.  »f. 
Itub  the  yolks  of  three  or  four  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a 
sniootli  paste  with  a  very  little  melted  butter,  pejiper,  and 
salt.  To  these  add  two  raw  ones,  beaten  li^ht,  and  enough 
flour  to  hold  the  paste  together.  Mtf.e  into  balls  with 
floured  hands  and  set  in  a  cool  place  ui  til  just  before  your 
soup  comes  ofl",  when  put  in  carefully  a  id  boil  one  minute. 

Omelette  auz  Fines  K  erees. 

After  the  yolks  and  whites  are  mixjd  together  with  tiw 

milk,  stir  in,  with   two   or   three  strokes  of  the   spoon  oi 

whisk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  |iarslej ,  green  thyme, 

fcnd  sweet  magoram,  with  pepper  and  salt.      Kiy  instantly 


.dhyGoogle 


BWBET   OMELETTES. 


Cheese  Omelette. 


Grate  some  rich  old  cheese,  ajid  having  mixed  the  oil? 
lette  08  usual,  stir  in  tlie  cheese  with  a  swift  turn  or  tn-c 
of  the  whisk,  and  at  the  same  time  some  chopped  paraleT 
and  thyme.  If  you  beat  long  the  cheese  wiU  separate  thf 
milk  from  the  eggs.     Cook  at  onee. 

Sweet  Omelettes. 
Omehtte  Souffiee— (Fried). 
6  eggs. 
4  tablespoonfuls  sugar  (powdered). 

1  teaapoonful  of  vanilla, 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

Beat  the  -whites  and  yolkfi  separately.  Add  the  sugar 
to  the  yolks,  a  little  at  a  time,  beating  very  thoroughly, 
until  tliey  are  smooth  and  thick.  The  whites  should  stand 
alone.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  fiying-pan, 
heat  to  honing,  and  when  you  have  added  the  vanilla  to 
the  omelette,  pour  it  in  and  cook  very  quickly,  as  you 
would  a  plain  one.  Slip  the  knife  frequently  under  it,  to 
loosen  from  the  sides  and  bottom.  It  is  more  apt  to  scorch 
than  ^^  omelette  withoiit  sugar.  Turn  out  upon  a  very 
not  dish,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  top.  and  serve  in 
Btantly,  or  it  will  fall  and  become  heavy 

Omelette  Souffiee— {Baked). 


)onfula  of  powdered  sugar. 

Juice  of  a  lemon  and  half  the  peel,  grated. 

Beat  yolks  aud  whites  separately  and  very  well.     Add 

a  the  yolka  by  degrees  the  powdered  sugai-,  and  beat  until 

t  ceases   to  froth,  and  is  thick  and  smooth.     The  whites 


.dhyGoogle 


2ff2  COMS  ox   SENSE 

eh     Id  be   t  ff    n     feh  to  cut  th  a  k    f       Stir  t      (h 

1    Itly  w  th  tL               m     p  t     a      11 1    tt      i  1   h 

nllkmaiL        nfi  U       Thll 

lldb            mdL         t  btt        Inttlllli 

,^      S     d  ft    iml      til         1  lit         1             11] 
huusclf  before  it  can.  iall. 

Apple  Omelette.  ^ 
6  large  pippins. 
1  tablespooaful  butter. 

5  or  6  tablespooufuls  sugar. 

Hutmeg  to  taste. 

1  teaspoonful  rosewater. 
Stew  the  apples,  when  you  have  paired  and  cored  theni, 
as  for  apple-sauce.  Beat  them  very  smooth  while  hot,  ad- 
ding  tlie  butter,  sugar,  and  nutmeg.  When  perfectly  cold, 
put  with  the  eggs,  which  should  be  whipped  Light,  yolka 
and  white'^  sepaiately.  Put  in  the  yolks  first,  then  tlie 
loscftatei,  lastly  the  whites,  and  pour  into  a  deep  bake- 
dish,  which  has  been  warmed  and  buttered.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  it  is  delicately  browned.  Eat  warm 
— not  hot — foi  tea,  with  Graham  bread.  It  ia  better  foi 
■"hildieu — I  say  nothing  of  their  elders — than  cake  and  pre- 


Omelette  with  Jelly. 

Currant  or  other  tart  jelly. 

Five  eggs. 

4  tablespoonfiils  cream,  or  the  s. 

ame  of  milk, 

thick- 

ened  with  a  teaspoonful  of  i 

^ice-flour  or 

arrow. 

root. 

2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  suga 

IT. 

1  teaspoonful  bitter  almond  or 

vanilla  flavoring. 

.dhyGoogle 


MILK,   BUTTER,    CHEESE,    ETO.  263 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  aeparafely,  adding  to  tlie  lattei 
die  sugar  and  nulk  after  they  are  thick  and  smooth.     Nexl^ 
chop  in  the  sea'wning;  lastly,  stir  in  the  whites  with  a  few 
ft    t    k         P  t  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  in  the  fry- 
I    n  a    I  l^h  n  t  is  hot,  pour  in  the  omelette.     SpveaJ 
1   n    t     h  u  d  n     which  will  be  in  a  very  few  minutes, 
B  rae  m  e  jelly      T  ke  the  pan  from  the  fire  to  do  this, 
s]        1  q      kJy  sh]  your  knife  or  tin  apatula  under  one- 
half  of  the  omelette,  and  double  it  over.     Turn  over  on  a 
hot  platter,  sift  powdered  sugar  upon  it,  and  eat  at  otce. 

Miis,  BuTTEit,  Cheese,  etc. 
A  cool  cellar  is  the  best  place  in  which  to  keep  milk 
if  you  have  no  dairy  or  milk-room.  Strain  it  into  broad 
shallow  pans,  which  are  lukewarm  from  recent  scalding. 
You  can  get  them  made  in  one  piece,  with  no  seams  in 
which  sour  cream  or  dh-t  may  lurk  unsuspected.  Set  upon 
swing  shelves,  to  avoid  the  possibilities  of  drowned  mice 
and  keep  the  cellar  dark  to  save  it  from  flies.  In  twelve 
hours  skim  for  the  table,  and,  unless  you  have  need  of  the 
milk,  let  it  stand  twelve  hours  more  for  the  second  rising 
of  cream.  Put  this  into  the  stone  jar  or  crook  in  which 
the  cream  is  kept  for  churning.  Even  in  butter-making,  1 
have  found  it  a  good  plan  to  take  off  at  night  the  cream 
clean  from  the  moraing  clmrning,  instead  of  letting  it  stand 
twenty-four  hours,  as  is  the  usual  custom.  The  "  second 
rising"  will  repay  one  for  the  additional  trouble.  Chum 
as  soon  as  convenient  after  the  cream  "loppera"  or  thiek- 
MJ8.  If  it  stand  too  long,  it  becomes  bitter  or  musty.  Tlie 
churn  should  be  well  scalded  and  aii-ed  between  the  churn- 
ings.  Scrupulous  cleanliness  should  be  the  unbending  ru!o 
of  dairy  ari'angenicnfcs.  AH  strongly-flavored  substances 
must  be  kept  from  the  neighborhood  of  milk  and  butter. 
They  are  ready  absorbents,  and  when  they  contract  odor  or 


.dhyGoogle 


264  COUUON   SESBi^ 

taste  never  j,pt  nd  of    t      H     e    a  tl    d  an  I  1 1.  n  ilk  ve» 
se!s   and  n     er  Alu  v  them  to  1  e  j.    t  to    aj  otliei  use 

b  old  the     li  and  c  ol    vitl    ice  oi   bj  mg  watir 

pou  iii  the  tl  k  oa  Lli  ni  tl  ei  fast  ntil  the  but 
t«r-flak  s  1  ft  by  the  d  1  er  i  on  the  toj  &1  o  v  that  the 
end  to  be  ga  ued  is  ne-u— thea  n  o  e  lowlj  Iho  mot  on 
ehoulJ  always  be  egilar  In  am  weathe  p  a  httle 
cold  water  uato  the  cl  u  n  shoul  I  the  b  ttt  ome  slowly 
Take  t  up  v  th  the  perforated  la&he  t  iim«  t  dexte 
ously  just  below  the  surface  of  the  b  tter  milk  to  cat  h 
everv  stray  b  t  Hj,  o  teily  some  clean  ve  y  cold  water 
In  a  dee]  wooden  traj  and  nto  this  plunge  the  daslier 
when  you  dr  w  t  fro  tl  e  ch  rn  The  b  tter  v  11  float 
off,  leavmg  the  Uhe  f  ee  H*  Bg  colic  ted  ere  y  pir 
tide,  gather  behmd  a  wooJen  b«ttei  sho  el  a  d  Ira  n  oft 
the  water,  squeezing  and  pressing  the  butter  with  the  shovel. 
Sot  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour  to  harden— a  necessary  meas- 
ure in  summer — tlien  work  and  knead  it  with  a  wooden  ladle 
until  not  another  drop  of  water  exudes,  and  the  butter  is  like 
yellow  marble  in  polisk  and  closeness  of  poi-es.  Wlien  you 
have  worked  out  the  butter-milk,  add  by  degi-ees  fine  salt, 
in  the  proportion  of  a  dessei'tspoonful  to  every  pound. 
Ther.  set  aside  for  some  hours,  idviays  in  a  cool  p]a«e.  The 
last  working  is  a  slight  aft'air,  comparatively.  Still  using 
the  paddle,  aud  never,  from  beginning  to  end  of  the  opera- 
tion, touching  with  your  hands,  mould  into  rolb  or  pound 
"  pats."  Mark  with  grooves  or  checkers  with  the  ladle, 
or  stamp  with  a  print.  Wrap  each  roll  in  a  clean  wet 
linen  cloth,  which  has  no  touch  of  soap  or  starch  about  it, 
and  pack  in  a  stone  jai-,  sprinkling  a  little  salt  between  the 

If  you  wish  to  keep  it  a  long  time,  work  with  especial 
care,  and  pack  down  hard  in  a  perfectly  clean  stone  jar. 
l>o  not,  above  all  things,  take  one  tliat  haa  ever  been  used 


.dhyGoogle 


MILK.   BBTTEE,   CHSE8B,  BIO.  265 

for  pickle..  Too  any  not  detect  the  tainle.t  odor  Unger. 
ag  .bout  it,  Wt  tlie  bitter  will,  md  absorb  it,  too.  Some 
cover  tlie  butter  witb  stiAug  brioe,  but  a  better  wiiy  is  to 
prcm  a  line  linen  clolb  olo.eij  to  tl.o  .urfeco,  md  cover 
tlm  witb  .  ttiek  kjor  of  clem  fine  salt.  Set  in  .  cool 
dn,  place,  „d  keep  the  clotb  over  it  ,11  tlie  time;  al„  a 
hgbtlj.iittm.  Kd.  When  jou  begin  to  „„  it,  take  out 
enongb  to  last  a  ™k,  and  ro-covor.  U  yon  admit  tbe  air 
ever,  day,  it  i,  apt  to  grow  strong.  A  pretty  pl.te  „t  bnt 
Icr  for  tbe  tabic  is  made  of  balls  luilf  the  sise  of  an  egi 
rolled  in  tbe  little  Anted  paddles  sold  for  the  pnrpose. 

Bobky-Olabbee,  oe  Loppeeed  Milk.  nJ* 

Sot  a  ckina  or  glass  disk  of  skiimnod  milk  away  in  . 

™rm  place,  covered.      Wben  it  tums-i.  ,,  become.  . 

smooth,  arm,  bnt  not  tough  cake,  like  bknc-mango-.erve 

m  the  .ame  di.k.     Out  out  carefully  with  a  krge  spoon 

d  put  m  luucers,  with  cream,  powdered  sugar,  and  nnt 


meg  to  taste.     It  is  better. 


a  the  ice  for  an  hour  h 


~   ,  1  "  ™^  o"  ^'c  ice  lor  an  uour  be- 

fore  ,t  n,  brought  to  table.     Do  not  let  it  stand  untS  the 
whey  separates  from  the  cuid. 

Few  people  know  how  doliciou.  this  healthful  and  cheap 
tessert  can  be  made,  if  eaten  before  it  becomes  tart  a«d 
tough,  with  ,  liberal  aUowance  of  cream  and  sugar.  There 
are  not  many  jeUies  and  creams  superior  to  it. 

Rennet. 

Clean  the  stomach  of  a  calf  (or  have  your  butcher  do 
.t  or  you)  so  soon  .,  j.  ;,  H„rf_  ,„„i„^  ^^^^^  ^_,  ^^^ 
with  salt.  When  perfectly  clean,  tack  upon  a  frame  to  dry 
ni  the  sun  for  a  day.  Out  in  squares,  and  pack  d.wn  in 
«lt,  or  keep  in  wine  or  brandy.  When  von  wid,  lo  us. 
a.  salted,  sodc  halt  an  hour  in  cold  watc,  wasl,  well,  and 


.dhyGoogle 


266  COMMON   SENSE. 

put  into  the  mUk  to  be  tumed,  tied  to  a  string,  tJiat  it  ma^ 
be  drawn  out  without  breaking  the  curd.  The  liquor  ren- 
net sold  by  dniggiats  is  sometiinea  good,  qidte  as  often 
worthless.  You  can,  however,  get  the  diied  or  salted  in 
the  markets,  and  often  in  the  drug-stores. 

Mountain  Custaed,  ok  Junket,  tj" 
Take  a  pieco  of  rennet  an  inch  long,  or  a  teaspoonful 
of  the  wine  in  which  rennet  is  kept,  to  each  quart  of  milk. 
Season  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  to  each  quart.  More  will  retard  the 
formation.  Set  in  a  warm  place — near  the  fire,  or  on  the 
kitchen  table — dosely  covered.  Look  at  it  from  time  to 
time,  and  if,  in  the  course  of  an  hour,  there  are  no  signa 
of  stiffening,  add  more  rennet.  When  it  is  firm,  like  blanc- 
mange, and  before  the  whej-  separates  from  the  curd,  re- 
move the  rennet,  and  set  upon  ice  until  it  is  wanted.  Serve 
with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

TnicKESED  Milk. 
Boil  a  quart  of  milk,  add  a  very  little  salt,  and  two 
tahlespoonfuls  of  rice  or  wheat  flour  \vet  in  cold  milk. 
Stir  in  sm-oothly,  and  let  it  tliicken  in  a  vessel  of  boiling 
water,  keeping  the  outer  sauce]>an  at  a  hard  boll  for  half 
an  hour.  Eat  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  with  cream  and 
sugar.  For  invalids,  or  cldldren  who  are  suffering  with 
Bummer  disorders,  boil  at  least  an  hour,  stirring  very  often. 

Cheese. 
I  have  doubted  the  utility  of  inserting  a  receipt  for 
regular  cheese-mating.  The  apparatus  necessary  for  the 
manufacture  is  seldom,  if  ever,  found  in  a  private  family, 
while  cheese  can  be  had  ia  every  country  store  at  one-third 
the  expense  to  an  amateur  of  making  it.     But,  remember- 


ed syGoOglc 


HILX,   BinTEE,    CHEEBE,   E!TO.  261 

ing  that  it  may  be  a  pleasant,  if  not  profitable  experiment 
for  the  itiistr  ess  of  many  cows  to  make  at  her  odd  moments, 
I  hav-o  secured  what  purpoi-ts  to  be  an  exact  description  of 
"  clieesc-m^ing  on  a  smaU  scale." 

To  each  gallon  of  milk  warm  from  the  cow,  add  a  piece  of 
rennet  six  inches  long  and  three  wide,  or  two  tablespoonfuls 
rennet-water — i.  e.,  water  in  wliich  rennet  has  been  boiled. 
Cover,  and  set  in  a  wai'm  place  until  it  becomes  a  firm  curd  J 
this  should  be,  at  the  most,  not  more  than  three-quarters  of 
an  hudT.  "When  the  whey  has  separated  entirely,  and  iooka 
clear  and  greenish,  wash  your  hands  very  clean,  and  with 
tlicm  gently  press  ail  the  <n.nd  to  one  side  of  the  pan  or  tub, 
while  an  assistant  dips  out  the  whey  Hd\e  leadj  a  stout 
hnen  bag  ]  jur  the  curd  into  it,  an  1  hing  it  up  to  dry 
until  not  another  diop  of  iiley  can  be  presied  out  then 
put  the  cutd  into  a  w  oden  di  h  and  cho[  it  f  ne  E  ij  ty 
mt  a  tnei  bag  and  put  into  a  small  cLees  1  ox,  or  other 
ciiculu-  woolen  bcx  with  i  peif  rated  I  ottum  and  i  hd 
tl  at  sli  Ie5  down  easily  but  losely  on  the  insi  le  Your 
1  ig  slioul  1  1  e  aa  nearly  is  possible  the  same  shai  e  and 
size  as  this  box.  Lay  hexvy  weights  upon  tlie  top  m  lack 
of  a  cl  eese  \  ress,  ind  let  it  stand  an  houi  llie  cloth 
fcliould  be  wet  inside  as  well  is  out,  btfoie  you  jut  the 
cuida  m  At  the  end  oi  tlie  houi,  take  oit  the  cheese 
and  chop  again,  adding  salt  this  time  Have  ready  a  ft  esh 
wet  cloth,  pack  in  the  curd  har  I  Theie  should  be  a  cir 
L  ilir  cover  foi  this  bag  which  must  be  basted  all  aiound, 
and  ^ery  smooth  en  top  Scald  the  b  x  and  covei,  then 
rinse  with  cold  water  an.d  put  the  cheese  a^am  under 
pie-,8  for  twelve  h  nrs  Next  daj  take  it  out  rub  lU 
oier  with  salt,  anl  fit  on  i  clean  wet  cloth  look  at  it 
Sixteen  ho  us  later  piro  tlf  the  lou^h  ei^es  and  scraje 
the  sides  f  ineqtahtics  before  retuininj,  to  the  press  for 
the  la6t  time      Lt,t  jt  remain  unlei  the  weights  foi  t\  ei  ty 


.dhyGoogle 


26  S  COMMON   BESBS. 

four  houia.  Strip  off  tbe  cloth,  nib  the  cheese  well  with 
biittor,  and  lay  upon  a  clean  cloth  spread  on  a  ehelf  in  a 
(!Ool,  dry  place.  A  wire  safe  is  best.  Wipe  clean  ;  then 
rub  every  day  with  butter  for  a  week,  and  turn  also  every 
twenty-four  hours.  At  tlie  end  of  tlie  week,  omit  tha 
greasing,  and  rub  hard  with  a  coarse  cloth.  Do  this  every 
day  for  a  month.  Your  cheese  wiU  tlien  be  eatable,  but 
it  will  be  much  finer  six  months  later. 

Stilton  cheeses — renowned  over  the  world — are  buried 
in  dry  heather  when  they  are  firm  enough  to  remove  from 
the  shelves,  and  kept  there  a  month.  This  is  called 
"  ripening." 

Cottage  Cheese. 

Heat  sour  milk  until  the  whey  rises  to  tlie  top.  Pour 
it  off,  put  the  cui-d  in  a  bag  and  let  it  drip  six  hours,  with- 
out squeezing  it.  Put  in  a  wooden  bowl,  chop  fine  with  a 
■wooden  spoon,  salt  to  taste,  and  work  to  the  consistency  of 
Boft  putty,  adding  a  little  cream  and  butter  as  you  pro- 
ceed. Mould  with  your  hands  iuto  round  "  pats  "  or  balls, 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place.     It  is  best  when  fresh. 

Cream  Cubes e. 

Stir  a  little  salt  into  a  pan  of  "  loppered"  cream.  Pour 
into  a  linen  bag,  and  let  it  drain  three  days,  changing  the 
bag  every  day.  Then  pack  into  ft  wooden  cup  or  mould 
with  holes  in  tbe  bottom,  and  press  two  hours.  Wet  the 
mould  witJi  cold  water  before  putting  in  the  cream-curd. 
Wrapped  in  soft  white  paper — two  or  three  folds  of  tissue- 
paper  will  do — to  exclude  the  air,  they  will  keep  in  a 
cool  place  for  a  week. 

This  is  the  cheese  sold  in  this  coimtry  under  tlie  nam< 
of  2^enfchatel. 


.dhyGoogle 


BREAD. 

e  of  importance  eiititlod  a  subjojt  to  preSiiii 
neiice  of  position,  tliat  of  wLich  we  are  now  about  to  speai 
should  have  stooil  foremost  in  this  work.  It  is  not  a  jileaa- 
ant  tiling  to  think  or  write  about,  but  it  13  a  stubborn  fact 
that  upon  thousands  of  tables,  in  otherwise  comfortable 
homes,  good  bread  is  an  unknown  pbenomenon.  I  say  pbe 
nomenon,  because  it  would  indeed  be  a  marvellous  estrange- 
ment of  cause  and  effect  were  indifferent  flour,  unskilfullj 
mixed  with  flat  yeast,  badly  risen  and  negligently  baked,  to 
result  in  that  pride  of  the  notable  housekeeijer — light,  sweet, 
■wholesome  bread,  I  know  a  household  where  sour,  stiff 
bread  is  the  rule,  varied  several  times  during  the  week  by 
muffins  scented  and  colored  with  soda,  clammy  biscuit,  and 
leathery  griddle-cakea ;  anotlier,  where  the  bread  is  inva- 
riably over-risen,  and  consequently  tasteless,  sometimes 
slightly  acid;  yet  another  in  which  home-made  bread  is  not 
csed  at  all,  because  it  is  "  so  troublesome  and  unceri^ain," 
the  mistress  preferring  to  feed  ker  family,  growing  children 
and  all  upon  the  vari-colored  ■jponces  boufbt  it  the  bakers 
—  I  nfl  t  d  w  tl       1      1  t  1     fl 

1   1     -nh  na  d  y    11   inlt         ft  n  bet 

t      k         nm        th         h  th      nt 

1      1  n  tl  e  kn  ad         Y  t  th 

I     1 1        I  1  m  t  to  tl         ab  minat 

th  y  lo  n  t  kn  w  i    vf  b  dly    ff  th  y     -e — ch.    fly  b      u  e 
th  IT  way    f  d  and  th  y  see  no      ■is  n  f       hang 

I  ha     bnah        kpef     thtyy  and  ha  e 

always  mixed  my  bread  just  so,  retorted  a  mistiess  once, 
when  I  mildly  set  forth  the  advantages  of  "  setting  a  sponge" 
over-night,  "I  put  in  flour,  yeast,  and  milk  if  I  have  it, 
and  give  them  a  good  stir ;  then  set  the  dough  down  to  riset 
Our  folks  don't  fancy  very  light  bi-ead.     There  don't  scea 


1         add 
t         ng   mth 
f  th     1     f  w 
a       all  w  11  t 

yas 
1     k 

tof 
do 

n    pa  tly   b 

.dhyGoogle 


270  COMMON   8ENBK. 

to  he  any  substance  in  it — so  to  speak.  Mine  §Pnerallj 
tui  ns  out  pretty  nice.      It's  all  luck,  after  all,  about  bread." 

"  i  'm  tolil  you  have  a  receipt  for  mating  bread,"  laugh- 
ed another  to  me;  "I  never  heard  of  such  a  thing  in  mj 
life,  and  I've  been  keeping  house  eigliteen  years.  So  I 
tiiought  I'd  call  and  ask  you  for  it — just  as  a  curiosity, 
you  know.     I  want  to  see  what  it  is  like." 

I  ■wisely  kept  my  thoughts  to  myself,  and  dictated  the 
receipt,  which  she  jotted  down  in  a  memorandum-book, 
iaughinj;  all  the  while  at  the  "  excellent  joke." 

"  You  really  use  this  ?  "  she  demanded,  when  this  was 

"I  do.     I  Lave  used  no  other  for  many  years." 

"  And  the  bread  I  ato  upon  your  table,  tlio  othor  night, 
was  made  according  to  this  ?  " 

Again  an  affiimative  answer. 

"I  guess  your  cook  could  tell  anotlier  story,"  rejoined 
the  akejitic.  "  You  can't  make  me  believe  that  bread  ii 
mado  by  rule.  I  put  my  materials  together  anyhow,  and  I 
Lave  as  good  luck  as  m.ost  of  my  neighbors," 

I  regarded  my  visitor  as  an  imjf&i-tiuent  simpleton;  but 
I  have  been  amazed,  in  subsequent  years,  at  finding  that  her 
creed  is  that  of  hundreds  of  housewives  moi-e  or  less  sensi- 
hie.  "  Luck  "  rules  the  baking,  and  upon  the  slioulders  of 
this  Invisible  are  laid  the  deficienciea  of  the  complacent 
cook.  Cheap  flour  and  liamess  are  at  the  bottom  of  mors 
misliaps  in.  the  bread  hue  thin  any  other  combination  of 
circumstances.  From  the  inferior  grides  of  flour,  it  is  pos- 
sible to  make  tolerable  biscuit,  ctumpets,  and  muffins,  plain 
pastry,  and  very  good  gnddle-cakes.  You  cannot,  by  any 
stress  of  art,  produce  excellent  bread  from,  poor  liour.  It 
b  no  economy  to  purchase  it  for  this  purpose.  It  t's  judici- 
ous to  lay  in  two  barrels  at  a  time,  and  to  use  the  best  onl! 
for  the  semi-  or  tri-weekly  baking. 


.dhyGoogle 


BliEAI).  271 

Cliiefest  tlien  am         th  It         t       ood  brcat],  1 

pliice    good   "family      fi      — dr        1  and    odorless 

Wliiteaess  is  a  second    j      n    1   -it  HI      ^b,  to  Ameri- 

can eyes,  tliis  is  a  r  um  1  ti  u  A  i  ttla  expedeuc* 
ttill  teach  you  to  dete  t  li  aimis  tl  t  f  t  1]  satisfactory 
baking-days,  and  vice  mi  If  ui  b  o  lb  the  flour  you 
discern  a  heaviness  Ilk  t!i  t  f  g  oljl-ib  if  in  sijneea 
m^  \  hindtul  tightly  J        li  tl        t     tains  thfl  ini 

print  of  jidlm  and  fin  rs,  a  I  11b  1  k  mto  the  tray  a 
couipiLt  bill  o!  lOil,    ft  th     1      t  musty,  or  sour, 

use  it  leu   spiiinglv  u     t  ijl  b  kuj,   f      the  chances 

aie  ai  ten  to  one  th  y  will  1  1  th  b  'rel  up  again 
and  return  it  to  your     occ 

Sometimes  new  flo  a  b  j  d  f  ae  by  sifting 
enough  for  each  bating  into  a  laige  tiay,  jiudeviiosiug  it  to 
the  hot  sun  for  some  hours,  or  by  setting  it  upon  the  kitcL 
en  heititli  for  the  same  time.  And  ituot  unfieqiientlj  hap- 
pens tbiit  flour  improves  greatly  after  the  h  inel  has  bteii 
o|>eu  for  several  days  or  weeks.  It  dries  out  lud  become'! 
ligliter,  more  elastic.  Next  in  impoi"tani.e  to  the  quality 
of  the  flour  is  that  of  the  yeast.  Tliia  should  be  light  in 
tolor  and  lively,  effeiTescing  easily  when  sliaken,  and  emit- 
ting an  oilor  like  weak  ammonia.  If  dull  or  sowt,  it  is  bad 
In  cities,  it  is  easiest,  perhaps  cheapest,  to  buy  yeast  liorn 
a  bi-eweiy  or  bakery,  exercising  your  discilmination  as  to 
quality  ;  unless  you  can  satisfy  yourself  in  this  regard,  you 
hiid  better  make  your  own.  I  can  confidently  recommend 
tlie  receipts  given  in  this  work  as  easy  and  safe,  liaving 
tried  them  in  my  own  family. 

Novices  in  bread-maldng,  and  many  who  should  lia\o 
learned  better  by  long  experience,  fall  into  a  sad  mist^ika 
in  the  consistency  of  the  dough.  It  should  be  mixed  as 
loft  as  it  can  be  handled.  Bread  will  rise  sooner  and  high 
er,   be   lighter  and  mo^e   digcstitile,  and   kee]>   fresh    much 


.dhyGoogle 


373 


COJOIOK   SENSE. 


longer,  if  this  rule  be  followed.  Stiff  bread  is  close  in  tes. 
ture,  often  waxy  to  tbe  teeth,  and  after  a  day  or  so  become* 
very  hard. 

Set  the  dough  to  rise  in  a  moderately  warm  place,  and 
keep  it  at  an  even  temperature.  There  is  force  in  the  old 
lament — "  My  bi-ead  took  cold,  last  night."  Cold  arreatg 
the  process  of  fermentation.  There  is  a  chance,  shon.d  this 
occur,  that  a  removal  to  a  more  geaial  atmosphere  aud  care- 
ful nursing  may  care  the  congestion,  should  it  be  only  par- 
tial. Too  much  heat  carries  forwai-d  the  work  too  rapidly. 
In  this  case,  you  wiQ  find  your  dough  puffy  and  sour.  Cor- 
rect the  latter  evil  by  dissolving  a  little  soda  or  saJeratna 
in  hot  \rater,  and  working  it  well  in. 

Knead  your  bread  faithfully  and  from  all  sides,  until 
it  rebounds  like  india-rubber  after  a  smart  blow  of  the  fiat 
upon  the  centre  of  the  mass. 

The  oven  should  not  be  too  hot.  If  you  cannot  hold 
your  bare  arm  within  it  while  you  count  thirty,  it  is  too 
quick.  Keep  the  heat  steady  after  the  bi-ead  goes  in.  Too 
much  fire  at  first,  and  rapid  cooling,  produce  the  cflect  upon 
the  bread  which  is  technically  called  "  slack-baked,"  i.  e. 
the  inside  of  the  loaf  is  never  properly  done.  Practice  and 
intelligent  observation  -will,  in  time,  make  you  an  adept 
in  the  management  of  your  ovens.  If  the  bread  rises  rapid- 
ly while  baking,  and  the  crust  begins  to  form  before  the 
lower  part  of  the  loaf  is  baked,  cover  the  top  with  clean 
paper  until  you  are  ready  to  brown  it. 

Crate  away  tlie  burned  portions  of  the  crust,  should 
tlv^re  be  such.  This  is  better  than  chipping  with  a  knife. 
One  of  the  best  bread-makers  I  know  bakes  in  round  pans, 
each  loaf  by  itself,  and  grates  the  whole  outer  surface,  top, 
bottom,  and  sides,  quickly  and  lightly,  toning  down  the 
brown  to  a  uniform  and  pleasing  tint.  Tilt  your  loaves 
upon  the  edge,  tlie  lower  part  resting  upon  the  table,  tl« 


.dhyGoogle 


BBBAC.  273 

Hpjer  supported  by  the  wall  or  other  upright  obje;t,  and 
throw  a  coarse  dry  cloth  over  them  until  they  cool. 
This  position  allows  tlie  air  to  get  at  all  aides,  and  prevents 
"  sweating."  A  tin  bread-hox  ia  best,  witli  a  cloth  at  bol 
torn  and  enwrapping  the  loaves. 

Yeast  (Hop).  »J" 

4  large  potatoes,  or  sis  small. 

2  quarts  cold  water, 

Double-haniLful  hops,  tied  in  a  coarse 
muslin  bag. 

4  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

2  wliite  sugar, 
reel  the  potatoes,  and  put  theia  with  the  !iop-bag  into 
ft  saucepan  containing  two  quarts  cold  water.  Cover  and 
boil  imtil  the  potatoes  breat  and  iall  apaa-t.  Take  theso 
out  with  a  [lerforated  skimmer,  leaving  the  water  still  boil- 
ing, mash  them  fine  with  a  potato -bee  tie,  and  work  in  the 
lioufiind  sugar,  Moisteu  this  gradually  with  the  hoUing 
hop  tea,  stii-ring  it  to  a  smooth  paste.  When  all  the  tea 
lia-s  been  mixed  in,  set  it  aside  to  cool.  While  still  Blightly 
warm,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  lively  yeast,  and  turn  all 
into  a  large  open  vessel  to  "work."  Keep  this  ia  a  warm 
]>lace  until  it  ceases  to  bubble  up,  or  until  nest  day.  In 
summer  it  will  work  well  in  a  few  hours.  When  quite 
light,  put  in  earthen  Jars  with  small  mouths,  in  which  fit 
coi'ks,  or  bottle  it,  and  remove  to  ice-house  or  cellar.  It 
"ill  keep  good  for  a  fortnight — longer  in  winter. 

When  you  wish  to  use  it  for  baking,  send  a  small  ves.sel 
to  the  cellar  for  the  desired  quantity,  and  re-cork  at  once, 
A  half-Lour  in  a  hot  kitchen  may  spoil  it. 


.dhyGoogle 


271  COMMON    gSNgB. 

Yeast   (Self-wo-rki/ng). 

8  potatoes. 

2  oimcca  hops. 

4  quarts  cold  water. 

1  lb,  flour. 

\  lb.  white  sugar. 

1  tablospoonful  salt. 
Tie  tje  hops  io  a  coarse  inuslin  bag,  and  boil  one  houi 
In  four  (jnarts  of  water.  Let  it  cool  to  lukewammess  be- 
fore removing  the  bag.  Wet  with  the  tepid  liquor — a  Utile 
at  a  time — the  flour,  making  to  a  smooth  paste.  Put  in 
the  sugii  and  &alt,  beat  up  the  batter  three  minutea  before 
addiH^  the  lest  of  the  tea.  Set  it  away  for  two  days  iu  an 
open  bowl  co-vered  with  a  thin  cloth,  in  a  closet  which  ia 
moiJetately  and  evenly  warm. 

On  the  thinl  day,  peel,  boil,  and  mash  the  potatoes,  and 
when  entuely  free  trom  lumps,  and  specks,  stir  in  grad- 
ually the  thickened  hopdiquor.  Let  it  stand  twelve  honra 
longer  m  the  howl,  stirring  often,  and  keeping  it  in  the 
warm  kitchen  Tlien  bottle  or  put  away  in  corked  jars, 
winch  must  be  peifectly  sweet  and  freshly  scalded.  This 
will  keep  a,  month  m  a  cool  cellar.  It  is  more  troublesome 
to  mike  it  than  other  kinds  of  yeasfc,  but  it  needs  no  other 
"  rising "  to  excite  fermentation,  and  t 
than  that  made  in  the  usual  way. 

Yeast 


2  quarts  cold  water. 

4  tablespoonfuls  flour, 

3  "  white  sugar. 

Peel  and  boil   the  potatoes  until  they  break.     Lenving 
tae  wa':er  on  tlie  fii-e   take  them  out  and  masli  fine  witli  the 


.dhyGoogle 


flour  and  sugar,  wettmg  gi-adiialiy  with  tLe  hot  water  until  il 
iK  all  uited.  When  Inkewarm,  add  a  gill  of  good  yeast,  and 
Bet  aside  in  an  ojien  vessel  and  warm  ]>lace  to  feriueitt. 
When  it  ceases  to  effervesce,  bottle  and  set  in  ioe-house. 

nds  yeast  is  very  nice  and  white,  and  is  piefcrrod  bj 
tnaay  who  dislike  tlie  bitter  taste  of  hojis.  It  ia  also  con 
venient  to  make  ivlien  hops  cannot  be  obtained. 

Yeast  Cakks.  •{■ 

2  quarts  water  (cold). 

1  quart  pared  and  sliced  potatoes. 

Double-handful  hops,  tied  in  coarse  uiuslia  bag. 

Flour  to  make  stiff  batter. 

1  cup  Indian  ineal. 
JSoil  the  potatoes  and  liop-bag  in  two  quarts  of  watei 
for  three-qnai-ters  of  an  hour.  Remove  the  hops,  and  while 
boiling  hot,  sti-ain  tlie  potatoes  and  water  through  a  oidlen- 
der  into  a  bowl.  Stir  into  the  scalding  liquor  enough  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  all  up  well ;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  lively  yeast  and  set  in  a  wana  place  to  rise. 
Wlien  light,  stir  in  a  cup  of  Indian  meal,  I'oll  into  a  slieet 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and  cut  into  round  cakes.  Dry 
these  in  tlie  hot  sun  or  in  a  ve^-y  moderate' oven,  taking 
care  they  do  not  heat  to  baking.  It  is  best  to  put  them  in 
after  the  fire  Las  gone  down  for  the  night,  and  leave  theio 
in  until  morning.  When  entirely  dry  and  cold,  hang  them 
up  ill  a  bag  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Use  one  cake  three  inches  in  diameter  for  a  loaf  of  fair 
WKO ;  soak  in  tepid  water  until  soft,  and  add  a  pinch  of  soda 
or  saleratus,  then  mix. 

Tliose  cakes  will  remain  good  a  month  in  siiminor,  two 


.dhyGoogle 


276  common  ben8b. 

Baking  Powdehs. 
1  ounce  Buper-oarbonate  soda. 
7  draclims  tartaric  acid. 
Eol!  smoothly  and  mix  thoroughly.      Keep  in  fl  tighl 
glass  jar  or  bottle.    Use  one  teaspoonful  to  a  quart  of  ftour, 
Or, 
12  teaspoonfiils  cai'b.  soda. 
24  "  cream  tartar. 

Piit  as  above,  and  use  in  like  proportion. 

Bhead  Sponge  (Potato),  i^ 
6  potatoes,  hoiled  and  mashed  fine  while  tot. 
6  tableapoonfula  hater's  yeast. 
2  "  white  sugar. 

2  «  lavd. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  quajt  warm — not  Jiot — water. 

3  cups  flour. 

Mash  the  potatoes,  and  work  in  the  lard  and  snirar. 
Stir  to  a  cream,  mixing  iu  gradually  a  quart  of  '.he  water 
in  which  the  potatoes  were  boiled,  which  should  have  been 
poured  out  to  cool  down  to  blood  wajmth.  Meat  in  the 
flour,  already  wet  up  with  a  little  potato-water  to  pi'oveiit 
tumping,  then,  the  yeast,  lastly  the  soda.  Cover  lightly  il 
tJie  weather  is  warm,  more  closely  in  winter,  and  set  to  liw 
ove»  night  in  a  warm  place. 

Bhead  Si'Osge  (J'lain).  t^ 

1  quart  waim  water. 

6  tablespoonfuls  baker's  yenst. 

2  "  lard. 

3  "  white  sugar. 


.dhyGoogle 


1  teaspoonfu!  soda.  ^ 

Mour  to  make  a  soft  batter. 

Melt  the  lard  in  the  warm  water,  add  the  sugar,  then  the 
flour  by  degrees,  stirring  in  smoothly.  A  quart  and  a  pint 
of  flour  will  us\ially  be  sufficient  if  the  quality  is  good. 
Next  comes  the  yeast,  lastly  the  soda.  Beat  up  hd,rd  for 
BCTeral  minutes,  and  set  to  rise  as  above. 

Bread  mixed  with  potato-sponge  is  more  nutiitious, 
keeps  fresh  longer,  and  is  sweeter  than  that  niaile  with  the 
plainer  sponge.  But  there  are  certain  seasons  of  the  yoar 
when  good  old  potatoes  cannot  be  procured,  and  new  on&a 
will  not  do  for  this  p\irpose. 

_  The  potato-sponge  is  safer,  because  surer  for  beginnera 
in  the  important  art  of  bread-making.  After  using  it  for 
fifteen  years,  I  regard  it  as  almost  infallible — given  tha 
conditions  of  good  flour,  yeast,  kneading,  and  baking. 

Fajiily  Bsead  (  White).  •{• 
Having  set  your  sponge  over  night,  or,  if  you  bake  late 
in  the  afternoon,  early  in  the  morning,  sift  dry  flour  into  a 
deep  bread-ti'ay,  and  strew  a  few  spoonfuls  of  fine  salt  over 
it.  The  question  of  the  quantity  of  flour  is  a  delicate  one 
requiring  judgment  and  experience.  Various  brands  of 
flour  are  so  unequal  with  i-espect  to  the  quantity  of  gluten 
they  contain,  that  it  is  impossible  to  give  any  invariable  rule 
on  this  subject.  It  will  be  safe,  however,  to  sift  two  quarta 
and  a  pint,  if  you  have  set  the  potato  sponge ;  two  quarts  for 
the  plain.  This  will  make  two  good-sized  loai'es.  Make  a 
hole  in  the  middle  of  the  heap,  pour  in  the  risen  sponge 
(which  should  be  very  light  and  seamed  in  many  places  or 
the  top),  and  work  down  the  flour  into  it  with  your  hands. 
If  too  soft,  add  more  flour.  If  you  can  mould  it  at  all,  it 
ie  not  too  >4oft.     If  stiff,  rinse  out  the  bowl  in  which  th« 


.dhyGoogle 


27S  COaiMOH    SENSE. 

e]iL>nge  was  set  with  a  little  lukew-arm  water,  and  work  this 
in.  \\lieii  you  have  it  in  manageable  shape,  begin  to  knead, 
Woik  the  mass  into  a  ball — your  hands  having  been  well 
flotiretl  from  the  first ;  detaich  it  from  the  tray,  and  lift  it 
in  yonr  left  hand,  while  you  spi-intle  flour  with  the  righ' 
thiokly  over  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  tray.  Toss  back 
the  ball  into  this,  and  knead  hard — always  toward  the 
centre  of  the  mass,  which  should  be  repeatedly  turned  over 
and  around,  that  every  portion  may  be  manipulated.  Brisk 
and  long  kneading  makes  the  pores  fine  and  regular.  Gap- 
ing holes  of  diverse  sizes  ai-e  an  unernng  tell-tale  of  a  care- 
less cook.  Spend  at  least  twenty  minutes — half  an  hour  ia 
better— in  this  kind  of  useful  gymnastics.  It  is  grand  ex- 
ercise for  ai-ms  and  chest.  This  done,  work  the  dough  into 
a  Bha]>ely  ball  in  the  ceuti-e  of  the  tray,  sprinkle  flour  over 
the  top ;  throw  a  cloth  over  all  and  leave  it  on  the  kitclien- 
table  to  rise,  taking  care  it  is  not  in  a  draught  of  cold  air. 
In  summer,  it  will  i-ise  in  four  or  five  houi's— in  winter,  six 
aie  often  necessary.  It  should  come  up  steadily  until  it  at 
least  trebles  its  original  bulk  and  the  floured  surface  cracks 
all  over  Knead  again  for  ten  or  fifteen  miuutes.  Then, 
divide  it  into  as  many  ^jai-ts  as  y>u  wi^h  loives,  and  put 
tlipse  in  well  gieased  pans  for  the  hnal  nsm.  In  a  large 
household  baking  it  is  customiiv  to  mould  the  dough  into 
ohloug  rolh,  thiee  or  four,  accoidms  to  the  number  of 
loaies  you  de^iie,  and  to  lay  these  close  together  in  one 
lai^e  pan  The  second  kneading  is  done  uion  a  floured 
boaid,  and  "fhould  bt,  thoioUf,h  as  the  fiist,  the  d  )ugh  being 
contunially  shifted  and  turned  Set  tl  e  i  ans  in  a  warm 
pKce  for  an  houi  longei,  with  a  clolh  thicwn  oier  them  to 
kuj  out  the  airanldust  Tlien  bake  heed  mg  the  direc- 
tions set  down  m  the  -u-ticle  iii  on  bread  m  general.  If  your 
01  ens  aro  m  good  condition,  one  houi  should  bake  the  abova 
■juantitj   of  hread.       But  here   again  experieucft   must   b« 


.dhyGoogle 


BBEAC  2Tf 

yoTirgniJe.  Note  carefiilly  for  yourself  tow  long  a  tim« 
is  i-oqiiired  for  your  first  successful  baking,  as  also  how 
much  dry  flour  you  have  worked  into  your  sponge,  and  let 
these  data  regulate  future  action.  I  have  known  a  vai-ia 
tiou  of  two  quarts  in  a  large  baking,  over  the  usual  measure 
of  flour.  I  need  not  tell  you  that  you  had  better  shun  a 
brand  that  requires  such  an  excessive  quantity  to  bring  the 
dough  to  the  right  consistency.  It  is  neither  nutritious  nor 
economical.  When  you  make  out  the  loaves,  prick  the  top 
with  a  fork. 

Do  not  make  your  first  baking  too  large.  Practice  is 
requisit--  to  the  management  of  an  unwieldy  mass  of  dough. 
Let  your  trial-loaf  be  with  say  half  the  quantity  of  sponge 
and  flour  I  have  set  down,  and  increase  these  as  skill  and 
occasion  i-equire,  carefully  preserving  tlie  proportions.  Seven 
or  eight  quai-ta  of  flour  will  be  needed  for  the  semi-weekly 
baking  of  a  family  of  moderate  size. 

If  I  have  seemed  needlessly  minute  in  the  directions  X 
have  laid  down,  it  is  because  I  wish  to  be  a  guide,  not  a 
betrayer,  and  because  I  am  deeply  impressed  with  the  worth 
of  such  advice  as  may  tend  to  diminish  tlie  number  of  those 
who  know  not  for  themselves  the  comfort  and  delight  of 
eating  from  day  to  day,  and  year  to  year,  good  family  bread. 

Family  Beead  {Brovm).  r^ 
I  msh  it  were  in  my  power,  by  much  and  earnest 
Bi  Baking  anil  nriting,  to  induce  evciy  housekeeper  to 
make  brown  biead— that  is,  bread  made  of  unbolted,  usu- 
ally called  Graham  flour — a  staple  article  of  diet  in  her  fam. 
ily.  I  only  repeat  the  declaration  of  a  majority  of  our  best 
chemists  and  physicians  when  I  say  that  our  American 
fondness  for  fine  wliite  bread  is  a  serious  injury  to  oui 
Lealth.  We  bolt  and  rebolt  our  flour  until  we  exttad 
from   it    thrcc-quKitera   of  its   nutritive   qualities,    leaving 


.dhyGoogle 


^bU  COMilON   8ENSB. 

little  itrengtli  in  it  except  what  lies  in  gluten  or  atareh, 
and  conHigii  that  wjiich  makes  bone  and  tissue,  which  regu 
lates  the  digestive  organs,  and  leaves  the  blood  pure,  tha 
brain  clear,  to  the  lower  animals.  Growing  children  es- 
pecially should  eat  brown  bread  daily.  It  supplies  tha 
needed  phosphate  to  the  tender  teeth  and  hones.  If  prop- 
erly made,  it  soon  commends  itself  to  tlieir  taate,  and  white 
becomes  insipid  in  compaiison.  Dyspeptics  have  long  been 
familiar  with  its  dietetic  virtues,  ajid,  were  tlie  use  of  it 
more  general,  we  should  have  fewer  wretches  to  monro 
over  the  destroyed  coats  of  their  stomachs.  Tt  ia  whol* 
some,  sweet,  honest,  and  .should  be  popular. 

Prepare  a  sponge  as  for  white  bread,  using  potatoes 
or  white  ilour.  My  rule  is  to  tjike  out  a  certain  quantity 
of  the  risen  sponge  on  baking  day,  and  set  aside  for  brown 
bread.  Put  into  a  tray  two  parts  Graham  flour,  one-third 
whit-e,  and  to  every  quart  of  this  allow  a  handful  of  Ii-iian 
meal,  with  a  teaspoouful  of  salt.  Wet  this  up  witi  tlie 
eponge,  and  when  it  is  mixed,  add,  for  a  loaf  of  fair  ii^o, 
half  a  teacupful  of  molasses.  The  dough  should  be  vej-y 
soft.  If  there  is  not  enough  of  the  sponge  to  reduce  it  to 
the  desired  consistency,  add  a  little  blood-warm  water. 
Knead  it  diligently  and  long.  It  will  not  rise  so  rapidly 
as  the  white  flour,  having  more  "  body"  to  carry.  I^t  it 
take  its  time;  make  into  round,  comfortable  loaTsi,  and 
set  down  again  for  the  second  rising,  when  you  have  again 
kneaded  it.  Bake  steadily,  taking  care  it  does  not  burn, 
and  do  not  cnt  while  hot.  The  result  will  well  rep*/  you 
for  your  trouble.  It  will  take  a  longer  time  to  bakn  than 
while  bread.      Brown  flour  should  not  be  aif(«d. 

Boston  Broivn  Bread. 

S«t  a  sponge  over  night,  with  potatoes  or  white  lloui. 
ii.  tlie  following  proportions  :— 


.dhyGoogle 


BREAD.  28l 

1  cup  yeast. 
6  potatoes,  mt^hed  fine  -with  three  cups  of  flour. 

1  quart  warm  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lard  {or,  if  you  leaye  out  the  potatotfl, 
oue  quart  of  warm  water  to  three  pints  of  flour). 

2  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar. 
Bea.':  np  well,  and  let  it  rise  five  or  sis  hours. 
When  light,  sift  iiito  the  bread-tray — 

1  quart  rye-flour. 

2  quarts  Indian  meal. 
1  tablospoonful  salt, 

1  teaspoonfiil  soda,  or  saleratus. 

Mis  this  up  very  soft  with   the  risen  sponge,   addicg 
T*arm  water,  if  needed,  and  working  in  gradually 
llalf  a  teacupfiil  of  molasses. 

Knead  well,  and  let  it  rise  from  six  to  seven  houra. 
Then  w^tk  over  again,  and  divide  into  loaves,  putting  these 
m  well-greased,  round,  deep  pans.  The  second  rising  should 
last  an  hour,  at  the  end  of  which  time  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  four  hours.  Rapid  baking  will  ruin  it.  If 
put  in  late  in  the  day,  let  it  stay  in  the  oven  ail  night. 

Rye  Bread. 
Set  a  sponge,  as  above,  but  with  half  the  quantify  of 

In  the  morning  mis  with  this : 

1  quart  warm  milk. 

1  tablespoonftil  salt, 

1  cup  Indian  meal. 

And  enough  rye  flour  to  make  it  into  pliable  dounh. 
Proceed  as  vrith  wheat  bread,  baking  it  a  little  loji"*r. 


.dhyGoogle 


282  COMMON   BKNSE. 

It  is  a  mistake  to  suppose  tliat  acidity,  grisater  or  less, 
is  tlie  iioi-inai  state  of  rye  bread.  If  you  find  your  dough 
in  tlie  slightest  degree  sour,  correct  by  adding  a  teaspoon- 
fwl  of  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water.  It  is  safest  to  add 
tliis  always  in  wai'm  weather. 

Milk  Bkead. 
1  quart  of  milk. 
^  teacui)ful  of  yeast. 

J  lb.  butter,  one  tablespoon ful  white  sugar. 
Stir  into  the  milk,  which  should  be  made  blood-warm, 
n  pint  of  flour,  tlie  sugar,  lastly  the  yeast.  Beat  all  to- 
gether well,  and  let  tliem  rise  five  or  six  hours.  Then 
melt  the  butter,  and  add  with  a  little  salt.  Work  in  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stifi' dough;  let  this  rise  four  hours,  and 
make  into  small  loaves.  Set  near  the  fire  for  half  an  hour, 
and  bake. 

In  warm  weather,  add  a  teaspoonfuj  soda,  dissolved  in 
warm  water,  to  the  risen  sponge,  as  all  bread  mixed  with 
milk  is  apt  to  sour. 

EuTTEBMTLK  Bkead. 
1  pint  buttermilk  heated  to  scalding. 

Stir  in,  while  it  is  hot,  enough  flour  to  msike  a  tolerably 
thick  batter.  A-dd  half  a  gill  of  yeast,  and  let  it  rise  five 
or  six  hours.  If  you  make  it  over  night  you  need  not  add 
'Jie  yeast,  but  put  in,  instead,  a  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 
In  the  morning,  stir  into  the  sponge  a  teaspoonful  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water,  a  little  salt,  and  two  tablespoonful  a 
melted  butter.  Work  in  just  flour  enough  to  enable  you 
to  handle  the  dough  comfortably ;  knead  well,  make  intii 
loaves,  and  let  it  rise  until  light. 

This  makes  very  white  aiid  wholesome  bread. 


.dhyGoogle 


BREAD.  28S 

Rice  Breau. 
Make  a  sponge  of — 

1  quart  warm  water. 
1  teacupful  yeast, 
1  table  spoouful  wlnte  sugar. 
3  "  krd. 

1  quart  wheat  flour. 
Boat  well  together,  and  when  it  has  risen,  which  will  b« 
in  about  five  hours,  add  three  jiints  of  warm  milk  and  three 
teaciipfuls  rice-flour  wet  to  a  thin  paste  with  cold  milk, 
anil  boiled  four  minutes  as  you  would  starch.  Tliis  sliould 
be  a  little  more  tk-vn  blood--A'arm  wlieu  it  is  stirred  into  thu 
batter.  If  not  thick  enough  to  majie  out  into  dough,  add  a 
(ittle  wheat-flour.  Knead  thoroughly,  and  ti'eat  as  you  would 
wheat  bread  in  the  matter  of  the  two  risings  and  baking. 

This  is  nice  and  delicate  for  invalids,  and  keeps  well. 
If  you  cannot  procure  the  rice-flour,  boil  one  cup  of  whole 
rice  to  a  tliin  paste,  mashing  and  heating  it  smooth. 

French  Eolls.  {Wo.  I.)  ^ 

In  kneading  dough  for  the  day's  baking,  after  adding 
and  working  in  the  risen  sponge,  set  aside  enough  for  a  loaf 
of  tea-rolls.  Work  into  this  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  iard 
or  butter,  and  let  it  stan  I  m  a  tolei  ibly  cool  phcp  (not  a 
odd  or  draughty  one)  for  four  hours  Knead  it  a,^in, 
and  let  it  alone  for  thri,e  houis  longer  Then  make  into 
rolls,  by  rolling  out,  very  lightly,  pieces  of  the  dough  into 
round  cakes,  and  folding  the^e,  not  quite  in  the  centie,  lite 
turn-overs,  Tlie  thud  rismg  mil  be  foi  one  houi,  then 
bake  steadily  half  an  hour  or  \em,  if  the  o^en  is  quick 

Having  seen  these  lolls,  htnokuig  li^ht,  and  delitious 
upon  my  own  table,  at  least  twice  a  week  for  ten  years 
vith  scarcely  a  failuie  u    tl  "  j   i>.  n     cr  1  ^ikui"  T  can  con 


;dhyGoogle 


SS4  COMMON   BEX8E. 

fidently  recommend  the  receipt  ami  the  product.     You 
make  out  part  of  your  Graham  dough  ia  the  ea 

FiiENcn  Rolls.  (iVb.  2.) 
1  quart  milk  ;  new,  warm  milk-is  best. 
1  teacup  yeaat. 
1  quart  and  a  pint  flour. 
When  this  sponge  is  light,  work  in  a  well-bnaten  e^ 
ftnd  two  tablcspoonfula  melted  butter,  with  a  tcaspoonful  of 
salt,  half  a  tea.spoonfui  soda  dissolved  ia  hob  water,  one 
tableapoonful  white  sugar  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft 
dough.     Let  this  stand    four   or   five  houra,  roll  out  into 
round  cakes  and  fold  as  in  No.  1,  or  shape  with  your  handa 
into  balls.     Set  these  closely  together  in  the  baking-pan ; 
let  them  rise  one  hour,  and  just  hefore  putting  them  into 
the  oven,  cut  deeply  across  each  ball  with  a  sharp  knife. 
This  will  make  the  deft  roll,  so  familiar  to  us  in  French 
restaurants.     Bake  half  an  hour. 

Risen  Biscuit,  i^ 

1  quart  milk, 

3  cup  lard  or  hutter — half-and-half  is  a  good  rule. 
J  cup  of  yeast. 

2  taLlesi)bonfuls  white  sugar, 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Mix  over  night,  warming  the  milk  slightly  and  melting 
the  lard  or  butter.  In  the  moruiug,  roll  out  into  a  sheet 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  thickness ;  cut  into  round 
sakes,  set  these  closely  together  in  a  pan,  let  them  rise  for 
twenty  minutes,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

These  delightful  biscuits  are  even  better  if  the  above  in- 
gredients be  sot  with  half  as  much  flour,  in  the  form  of  a 


.dhyGoogle 


thin  sponge,  and  the  rest  of  the  flunr  be  worked  in  fivs 
lioura  later.  Let  tkis  rise  five  hours  more,  and  proceed  aa 
alreitcJy  directed.  This  is  the  best  plaa'if  the  biscuit  ara 
intended  for  tea. 

Sally  Lunn.  {JVo.  I.)  <^ 
1  quart  of  flour. 

J-  cup  melted  butter. 

1  cup  warm  mUk. 

1  cup  warm  water. 

4  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 

1  teaspoonful  salt, 

i  "  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  milk,  water,  butter 
soda,  and  salt ;  stir  in  the  flour  to  a  smooth  batter,  ajid 
beat  the  yeast  in  well.  Set  to  rise  in  a  buttered  pudding- 
dish,  in  which  it  must  be  baked  and  sent  to  table.  Or,  ii 
you.  wish  to  turn  it  out,  set  to  rise  in  a  we/^-buttered  mould. 
It  will  not  be  light  under  six  hours.  Bake  steadily  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  a  straw  thrust  into  it  comes 
up  clean.     Eat  while  hot. 

This  is  the  genuine  old-fashioned  Sally  Lunn,  and  will 
hardly  give  place  even  yet  to  the  newer  and  faster  com 
pounds  known  under  the  same  name. 

Sally  Lunn.  {JVo.  2.)  •}• 
1  scant  quart  flour. 
4  eggs. 

1  teacupful  milk. 

1  "  lard  and  butter  mixed. 

1  teaapoonful  cieam-tartar. 
■J  "  soda  dissolved  in  hot  wat«r, 

1  '*  salt. 


.dhyGoogle 


380  COMMON   SENSE. 

Boat  the  eggs  very  light,  yolka  and  whites  separatelj  , 
melt  tlie  shorteuing,  sift  tlie  crea.m-tiLi  tar  into  t!ie  flour 
add  the  whites  the  last  thing. 

Potato  Biscuit. 


8  potatoes  of  medium  size,  mashed  very  fine. 

4  tablespoonfids  butter,  melted. 

3  cups  milk,  biood-warm. 

1      pyea  t 

Fl        to       b        1      h  tte 

t  bl    !        t  1      1  t    SI 

St 

11  ti       b            "T  1      t    to    th            ept  the  but- 

ter,  a 

1  1  t  th      ]                    mtil  1    ht^f         r  fire  houri 

willd 

th         1 1  th    m  It   1  1    tt     w  th     1  ttle  salt  and 

flour, 

h  t    m  k        ft  d       i       &  t        1    this  for  four 

hours 

1                11       t            I     t  tl     e-q      t       of  an  inch 

thick 

t  int       k        1  t  th          se         h           nd  bake. 

Mrs.  E 's  Biscuit  (Soda).  •{" 

1  quart  flour. 

2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  lard. 

2  cups  sweet — if  you  can  get  it — neio  milk, 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

3  "  cream-tartar. 
1  saltapoonful  of  salt. 

Rub  the  soda  and  cream-tartar  into  the  flour,  and  sift 
all  together  before  they  are  wet ;  then  put  in  the  salt ;  nest 
the  lard,  rubbed  into  the  prejiared  flour  quickly  and  light- 
ly ;  lastly,  pour  in  the  milk.  Work  out  the  dough  rapidly, 
kneading  with  as  few  strokes  as  possible,  since  handling 
injures  the  biscuit.  If  properly  prepared  the  dough  will 
have  a  rough  surface  and  the  biscuit  be  flaky.  The  dougli 
should  also  be  ueiy  soft.     If  the  flour  stiffeo  it  too  mueli, 


.dhyGooi^le 


8BEAD.  ggj 

■dd  more  milk  EoU  out  lightly,  ciit  into  cakea  a(,  least 
half  an  mch  tluck,  and  biLe  m  a  ^uick  oven.  The  biscuit 
made  by  the  fiienl  ftom  ..honi  I  had  tliia  receipt  were 
miinh  of  lightness  and  sweetnes-a  I  have  often  tLought 
f  them  since  with  legn-tful  longuig,  when  set  down  to  so- 
cnilpd  "  soda  biscuit, '  marbled  with  greenish-yellow  streaks, 
und  emitting,  when  sjilit,  an  odoi  which  was  in  itself  an 
clo<iueiit  dis^isne  to  an  tdntatcd  appetite.  Few  cooka 
make  really  go  d,  quick  biscuit— why,  I  am  unable  to  say 
unless  upon  the  principle  of  "biains  will  tell."  I  have 
had  more  thin  one  m  my  kit,,hen,  w  ho,  admirable  in  almost 
every  other  resppct,  were  absolutely  unfit  to  he  intrusted 
with  this  simile  yet  deluite  manuficture.  Tlie  common 
fault  m  to  ha-io  too  '  heavy  a  hmd"with  soda,  and  to 
"gi  ess  It'  tie  inantities,  inst  1 1  oi  measuring  them.  Eat 
while  warm. 

Graham  Biscuit.  •!■ 
3  cups  Graham  flour, 

1  cup  white, 
3  cups  milk, 

2  tahlcspoonfuls  krd. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  white  sugai. 
1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Is  cream-tartar.    ■ 


Mix  and  bake  as  you  do  the  wHto  soda-bisciit  (Mra 
's).     They  are  good  cold  as  weU  as  hot 


MiKUTE  Biscuit. 
1  pint  sour,  or  buttermilk. 

1  teaspoonftil  soda. 

2  teaspoonfulH  melted  butter. 


.dhyGoogle 


Mour  to  mate  soft  dongli — just  stiff  enough  to  handle. 
Mis,  roil,  and  cut  out  rapidly,  witli  as  little  handling  aa 
may  be,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Gkaham  Wiieatlets. 

1  pint  Graham  flour. 

Nearly  a  quart  of  boiling  water  or  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Bcald  the  flour,  when  you  have  salted  it,  into  aa  soft 
dough  as  you  can  handle.  Koll  it  nearly  an  inch  thick, 
cut  in  round  cakes,  lay  upon  a  hot  buttered  tin  or  pan, 
and  bake  them  in  the  hottest  oven  you  can  get  ready, 
Evt'rything  depends  upon  heat  in  the  manufacture  of  thcMO, 
Some  cooks  spread  them  on  a  hot  tin,  and  set  this  iipon  a 
red-hot  stove.  Properly  scalded  and  cooked,  they  are  Hght 
as  puffs,  and  very  good ;  otherwise  they  are  flat  and  tovigh. 
Split  and  butter  while  hot. 

Sweet  Eusk.  ^ 
1  pint  w^ann  milk, 
J  cup  of  butter. 
1  cup  of  sugar, 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 

Make  a  sponge  with  tlie  milk,  yeast,  and  enough  floai 
for  a  thin  batter,  and  let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing add  the  buttec,  eggs,  and  sugar,  previously  beaten  up 
■well  together,  the  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft 
dsugh.  Mould  with  the  hands  into  balls  of  uniform  size ; 
set  cV  «  together  in  a  pan,  and  let  them  rise  until  very 
light.  After  baking,  wash  the  tops  with  a  clean  soft  cloth 
dipped  in  molasses  and  water. 


.dhyGoogle 


Deied  Rusk.  ^ 

1  pint  of  warm  inilk. 

2  eggs. 

i  tea«up  of  butter. 

Half  a  cup  of  yeast. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Set  a  sponge  witii  these  ingieditnt'^,  lfa\iijg  out  the 

«ggs,  and  stirring  in  floui    until  >ou  ha^e  a  tliak   bUtei 

Early  next  morning    mIJ    tLe  ^ell  beiten    egas,  and  flour 

enr.ngh  to  enable  you  to  roll  out  tlio  dougli      l«t  this  iiso 

in  the  bread-bowl  two  boui.      Roll  mt .  i  sheet  nearly  an 

inch  thick,  cut  into  ronna  cakes,  and  air^ngc  m  your  bak 

ing-,)an   two   deep,   laying   one   upon   the    othei    coietuliy 

Let  these  stand  for  another  hilf  hour,  ^3ld  bake 

These  are  no«r  very  nice  foi  eating,  md  >ou  may,  if 
you  like,  reserve  a  plateful  for  tea,  but  the  lule  for  the 
many,  handed  down  through,  I  am  afiaid  to  saj  how  many 
generations,  in  the  famih  where  1  fiist  ate  this  no-vel  and 
delightful  biscuit,  ia  to  dnide  the  twins  thus  leaving  one 
side  of  each  cake  soil,  an  i  piling  them  loofeelv  in  the  pui 
sot  them  in  the  oven  ^hen  the  hre  is  declining  for  the' 
night,  and  leave  them  m  until  morning  Then,  still  obey 
ing  the  ti-aditions  of  re^eicd  eldei-s,  put  tliem  lu  a  clean 
musim  bag,  and  hang  thpm  up  m  the  kitchen.  They  wUl 
be  fit  to  eat  upon  the  third  day.  P,it  as  many  as  you  need 
m  a  deep  dish  and  pour  over  them  iced  milk,  or  water  if 
you  cannot  easily  procure  tlie  former.  Lot  them  soak  im- 
til  soft,  take  them  out,  drain  them  for  a  minute  in  a  shal- 
low pkte,  and  eat  with  butter.  Invalids  and  children 
crave  tliem  eagerly.  Indeed,  I  have  seen  few  refuse  tiiera 
who  had  ever  tasted  them  befoi-e.  There  is  a  pastoral  flavor 
aSout  the  pleasant  dish,  eaten  with  the  accompaniment  of 
fresh  bcvrios,  on  a  summer  evening,  that  appeals  to  the  beb 
tar  impulses  of  one's  appetite. 
13 


.dhyGoogle 


390  COMMOH   SBNSK. 

Try  my  soaked  rusk— not  forgetting  to  ice  the  milk— 
and  you  will  find  out  for  yourself  wkat  I  mewi,  but  cannot 
q  lite  express. 

Dried  rusk  will  keep  for  weeks,  and  grow  better  every 
day.  The  only  risk  is  in  their  being  eaten  up  before  they 
attain  maturity. 

Butter  Crackers. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

J  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water, 

1  saltspoonfal  salt, 

2  eupa  sweet  milk. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  aour,  or,  what  is  better,  cut  it 
up  with  a  knife  or  chopper,  as  you  do  in  pastry;  add  the 
salt,  milk,  and  soda,  mixing  well.  "Work  into  a  ball,  lay 
upon  a  floured  board,  and  beat  witb  the  rolling-pin  half  aa 
hour,  turning  and  shifting  the  mass  often.  Roll  into  an 
even  sheet,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  or  less,  prick  deeply 
with  a  fork,  and  bake  hard  in  a  moderate  oven.  Hang 
them  up  in  a  muslin  bag  in  the  kitchen  for  two  days  to 

dry. 

WArEBS.  •J" 

1  pound  of  flour, 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter, 
A  httle  salt. 

Mix  with  sweet  milk  into  a  stiff  dough,  roll  out  very 
thin,  out  into  round  cakes,  and  again  roll  these  as  thin  aa 
tliey  can  be  handled.  Lift  them  carefully,  lay  in  a  pan, 
and  bake  very  quickly. 

These  are  extremely  nice,  especially  for  invalids.  They 
riiould  be  haxdly  thicker  than  writiug-paper.  Flour  thi 
baking-pan  instead  of  greasing. 


.dhyGoogle 


Crumpets  {Sioeet). 
1  pint  raised  dough. 
3  eggs. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
J  cup  white  sugar. 
WLen  your  bread  has  passed  its  second  rising,  work  in- 
to  the  aboye-name.1  quantity  the  melted  butter,'  then  cha 
eggs  and  sugar,  beaten  together  untU  veiy  light.     Baire  in 
muffin-rings  about  twenty  miiiutes. 

Crumpets  {Plain),  .fi 
3  cops  -warm  milk, 
i  cup  yeast. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
1  saltspoonful  salt,  and  the  same  of  soda,  dissolved  in 

hot  water. 
Flour  to  make  good  batter. 
Set  these  ingredients— leaving  out  the  butter  and  soda 
-as  a  sponge.  Wheu  very  light,  beat  in  the  melted  but- 
ter, with  a  vmy  little  flour,  to  prevent  the  butter  from 
thinning  the  hatter  too  much;  stir  la  the  soda  hard,  fdJ 
pattypans  or  muffin-rings  with  the  mixtui-e,  and  let  tham 
stand  fifteen  minutes  before  baking. 

This  is  an  excellent,  easy,  aud  economical  recipt, 

GUAHAM   MuPFIHa,  4a 

3  cups  Graham  flour. 

I     "     white  flour. 

1  quart  of  milk, 

f  cup  yeast. 

1  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter. 

1  teaspoonfiil  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 


.dhyGoogle 


292  COMMON    BBNBK. 

Set  to  rise  over  nigtt,  and  bate  in  muffiiL-riiigs  tw«utj 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven.     Eat  hot. 

QUEES    MUEFINS.  ijl 

1  quaxt  of  milk. 
J  cup  of  yeast. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  SHgar. 

1  «  of  lard  or  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  good  batter. 

Set  the  batter— leaving  out  the  e^;— to  rise  over 
night.  In  the  morning  beat  the  e^s  very  light,  stir  into 
the  batter,  and  bake  in  rauffia-rings  twenty  minutes  m  a 

quick  oven. 

Cream  Muitiss.  •$• 

1  quart  sweet  milk  (half-cream,  if  you  can  get  it). 

1      «       flour — heaping. 

6  egga. 

1  tableapoonful  butter,  and  the  same  of  lard— melted 
together. 
Beat  the  e^s  Ught— th,i  yolks  and  -whites  separately ; 
add  the  milk,  with  a  little  salt,  then  the  shortening,  lastly 
the  flour,  stirring  in  lightly.  Bake  immediately  in  woll- 
greased  rings  half  filled  with  the  batter.  Your  oven  should 
be  hot,  and  the  muffins  sent  to  table  so  soon  as  they  aia 

taken  up. 

Buttermilk  Muffins. 

1  quart  buttermilk,  or  "loppered"  sweet  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  "  salt. 

Flour  to  make  good  batter. 


;dhyGoogle 


Ueat  the  eggs  well  and  stir  them  into  the  milk,  heating 
haid  all  tlio  while;  add  the  iiour  and  salt,  and  at  the  last 
the  Boda.     Bake  at  once  in  a  quick  oven. 

"Mother's"  Muptins,  J^ 
1  pint  milk, 
legg. 

1  tableapoonful  lard. 
^  cup  yeast. 
Flour  for  stiff  batter. 


Set  to  rise  over  night. 

Charlotte  Muffins.  •Jt 
I  quart  of  four. 
3  eggs — the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and 

until  stiff. 
3  cups  of  milk.     If  sour,  no  disadvantage,  if  soda  be 

added. 
A  little  salt. 
The  excellence  of  these  depends  upon  thorough  heat- 
ing and  quick  baking. 

EicE  Muffins.  >{< 
1  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 

1  pint  of  flour. 

2  eggs. 

1  quart  of  mUk,  or  enough  to  make  thin  batter. 
1  tablespoonfu!  lard  or  butter, 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Beat  hard  and  bake  quickly. 


.dhyGoogle 


zy*  COMMON   BBHBB. 

Hominy  MoFFiNa.  r^ 

2  cups  fiae  hominy — boiled  and  cold, 

3  eggs. 

3  Clips  sour  milk.    If  sweet,  add  one  teaspoonful  creain> 

tartar, 
j-  cwp  melted  butter. 
2  teaspoonfula  salt, 
2  tablespoonfula  wtite  Bngar, 
1  large  cup  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
Beat  the  hominy  smooth;  stir  in  the  milt,  then  tha 
butter,  salt,  and  sugar ;  next  the  eggs,  ■which  should  first 
be  ■well  beaten ;  then  the  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water ; 
lastly  the  flour.  , 

There  are  no  more  delicious  or  ■wholesome  muffins  than 
these,  if  rightly  mixed  and  quickly  baked. 

.  Belle's  Muffins. 
3  pints  of  flour. 

1  quart  o£  milk.  ^ 

2  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfula  cream-tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  "  salt. 

Sift  the  cream-tartar  with  the  flour.  Beat  the  eggs 
very  light.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  Lot  water.  Bake  in  ringE 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Corn  Bhead, 

There  is  a  marked  difierence  between  the  com-meaJ 

ground   at  the  South,  and  that  which  is  sent  out  from 

Northern  mills.     If  any  one  doubts  this,  it  is  not  she  who 

has  perseveringly  tried  both  kinds,  and  demonstrated  to 


.dhyGoogle 


her  own  conviction  that  the  same  treatment  will  not  do 
for  them.  An  intelligent  lady  once  told  me  that  the  shape 
of  the  particlea  composing  tlie  meal  was  different — the  one 
bcdng  round  and  smooth,  the  other  angular.  I  am  inclined 
to  believe  tids.  The  Southern  meal  is  certainly  coarser, 
and  the  bread  made  from  it  less  compact.  Moreover,  there 
is  a  partiality  at  the  North  for  yellow  meal,  which  the 
Southerners  regard  as  only  fit  for  chicken  and  cattle-fee^. 
The  yellow  may  he  the  sweeter,  but  1  acknowledge  that  I 
have  never  succeeded  m  making  ri  xlly  nite  bieid  fiom  it 

Indian  meal  should  be  puiclused  in  smiU  quintities, 
except  for  a  very  large  £iimlv  It  is  apt  to  hpit  moidd, 
and  grow  musty,  if  kept  long  in  bulk  or  m  a  wum  place 
If  not  sweet  and  dry,  it  is  useless  to  exp(^  good  bread  or 
cakes.  As  an  article  of  diet,  especially  m  the  eaily  warm 
day3  of  spring,  it  is  healthful  and  agreeable,  often  acting 
as  a  geutle  corrective  to  bile  and  other  disorders.  In 
winter,  also,  it  is  always  acceptable  upon  the  breakfast 
or  supper  table,  being  warming  and  nutritious.  la  sum- 
mer the  free  use  of  it  is  less  judicious,  on  account  of  its 
'ixative  properties.  As  a  kindly  variation  in  the  routine 
of  fine  white  bread  and  baker's  rolls,  it  is  worth  the  atten 
tion  of  every  housewife,  "John  and  the  children"  will 
like  it,  if  it  appi-oximatea  the  fair  standard  of  excellence  J 
and  J  take  it,  my  good  fi-iend — you  who  have  patiently 
kept  conipany  with  me  from  our  pi'efatory  talk  untQ  now — 
that  you  love  them  well  enough  to  care  for  their  comfort 
and  likings. 

"  My  husband  is  wild  about  com  bread,"  a  wife  re- 
marked to  me  not  a  hundred  years  ago,  "  but  I  won't  make 
it  for  him;  it  is  such  a  bother!  And  if  I  once  indulge 
liim,  he  will  give  me  no  peace." 

Beloved  sister,  I  am  persuaded  better  things  of  yon 
Good  hnsbanda  cannot  be  spoiled  by  petting.     Bad  one» 


.dhyGoogle 


cannot  bo  made  worse — they  may  bemado better.  It  seeiiii 
a  little  thing,  so  trifling  m  its  cciiseqnences,  you  need  not 
tire  further  your  aching  bick  and  feet  to  accomplish  it — 
the  piep^ration  of  Jihn's  favorite  disli  ivhen  he  does  no! 
eicpLCt  the  tioat — to  suijjnt.e  bun  when  ho  comes  in  cold 
imd  bungij,  by  setting  befoie  bim  a  dish  of  hot  mili-toast, 
or  a  loaf  of  com  bread,  blown  and  crisp  without,  yellow 
and  spongy  witbm,  mateid  of  the  'itcreotyped  pile  of  cold 
slices,  blown  or  white  If  be  were  consulted,  he  would 
say,  like  tlie  generous  soul  he  is — "  Don't  take  one  needless 
step  for  me,  di  ar  "  And  be  would  mean  it.  But  for  all 
that,  he  will  enjoy  your  little  surprise — ay  1  and  love  you 
the  better  for  it.  It  is  the  "  little  by  little  "  that  makes 
up  the  weal  and  woe  of  life. 

May  I  make  tbis  digression  longer  yet,  by  telling  you 
what  I  overheard  a  husband  say  to  a  wife  tbe  other  day, 
when  he  thought  no  one  else  was  near  enough  to  hear  him  ? 
He  is  no  gourmand,  but  ho  is  very  partial  to  a  certaiji  kind 
of  cruller  which  nobody  else  can  make,  he  thinks,  so  well 
as  his  little  wife.  It  so  chanced  that  in  fi-ying  some  of  these 
she  scalded  her  hand  badly.  Afier  it  was  bandaged,  she 
brought  up  a  plate  of  the  cakes  for  his  lunchcoD.  He  look 
ed  at  them,  then  at  her,  with  a  loving,  mournful  smile. 

"  I  can  understand  now,"  said  he,  "  how  David  felt 
when  bis  men-of-war  brought  him  the  water  from  the  well 
of  Bethlehem," 

Then  he  stooped  and  kissed  the  injured  fingers.  Yet 
he  has  been  married  nearly  twenty  years.  I  wat'  not 
asliamed  that  my  eyes  were  moist.  I  honored  him  the  mora 
tliat  liis  wore  dim. 

This  is  my  lesson  by  the  wayside  apropos  to  com  bread. 

And  now  again  to  business. 


.dhyGoogle 


JleceipUfor  Mread  inade  of  N'ortliffm  Indiam  Meal 
NoNPABEii,  CoEN  Bread.  >{• 

2  heapi  iig  cups  of  Indian  meal, 
1  cup  of  flour. 

3  eggs. 

2^  cups  milk, 

1  tablespoonful  lard. 

2  "  white  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  "  cream-tartar. 
I           "  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  lery  thoroughly — whites  and  yolks  aep- 
wately — melt  the  lard,  sift  the  ci-eam-tartar  and  eoda  into 
the  meal  and  flour  while  yet  dry,  and  stir  this  in  at  the 
lasl.  Then,  to  borrow  the  direction  scribbled  by  a  rattle- 
tongued  girl  upon  the  above  receipt,  when  she  sent  it  to 
me— "beat  like  mad!"  Bake  quickly  and  steadily  in  a 
buttered  mould.  Less  than  half  an  hour  will  usually  suffice. 
In  euttittg  com  bread  hold  the  knife  perpendiculairly  and 
cut  toward  you. 

Corn  Meal  Muffins. 
Mix  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  only  a  little  thin- 
ner, and  hake  in  rings  or  small  pattypans.     All  kinds  of 
com  bread  should  be  baked  quickly  and  eaten  while  hot, 

Risen  Coen  Bread. 

1  pint  Indian  meal. 

2  cupa  risen  sponge,  taken  from  your  regular  baking  of 

wheat  bi'ead. 
\  cup  molasses,  or,  wliat  is    better,  4  tablespoonfuls 
white  sugar. 
13* 


.dhyGoogle 


298  COMMON   SENSE. 

1  teEtspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  Tratep. 
1  table  spoonful  lard,  melted, 
1  cup  flour,  or  enough  for  stiff  batter. 
Mix  well,  put  to  rise  in  a  buttered  mould  until  verj 

Ugbt.     Bake  one  hour.     It  is  well  to  scald  the  meal  and 

Btir  in  while  blood-warm. 

Steamed  Cors  Bkead, 
2  cupa  Indian  meal, 

1  cup  flour. 

2  tablespoonfula  white  sugar. 

2^  cups  "  loppered  "  milk,  or  buttermilk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  "  sal6. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  lard,  melted. 
Beat  very  hard  and  long,  [rat  in  buttered  mould,  tie  a 
coarse  cloth  tightly  over  it,  and  if  you  have  no  steamer,  fit 
the  mould  in  the  top  of  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  taking  care 
it  does  not  touch  the  surface  of  the  liquid.  Lay  a  close 
cover  over  the  cloth  tied  about  the  mould,  to  keep  in  all  the 
heat.  Steam  one  hoiir  and  a  half,  and  set  in  an  oven  ten 
minutes.  Turn  out  upon  a  hot  plate,  and  eat  while  warm. 
This  will  do  for  a  plain  dessert,  eaten  with  pudding-sauce. 

Corn-Meal  Crumpets. 
1  quart  Indian  meal. 

1  "      boiled  milk. 

4  tablespoonful  3  yeast. 

2  "  white  sugar. 
2  heaping  tablespoonfula  lard 

or  butter,  or  half-and-half. 
1  saltapoonful  salt. 


Scald  the  meal  with  the  boihng  milk,  ana  let  it  stftud 


.dhyGoogle 


BKEA1>.  299 

until  lukewarm.  Then  siir  in  the  sugai',  yeaa.,,  and  salt, 
and  leave  it  to  rise  five  hours.  Add  the  melted  shortening, 
beat  well,  put  in  greased  muffin-rings,  set  these  near  tha 
lire  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  bake.  Half  an  hour  in  aquic^ 
oven  ought  to  cook  them. 

Never  cut  open  a  mufEn  or  crumpet  of  any  kind,  least 
of  all  one  made  of  Indian  meal.  Pass  the  knife  Kghtly 
around  it  to  pierce  the  crust,  then  break  open  with  the 


Eeceiptt  far  Com  Bread  made  of  Southern.  Indiwn  3feai. 
JoHKHT  Cake, 

1  teacupful  sweet  milk. 

1         "        buttermilk.  ,  . 

1  teaapoonful  salt, 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

Enough  meal  to  enable  you  to  roll  it  into  a  sheet  half 
an  inch  thick.  Spread  upon  a  buttered  tin,  or  in  a  shallow 
pan,  and  bake  forty  minutes.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  brown, 
baste  it  with  a  rag  tied  to  a  stick  and  dipped  La  melted  but 
ter.  Repeat  this  five  or  six  times  until  it  is  brown  and  crisp. 
Break — not  cut  it  «p — and  eat  for  luncheon  or  tea,  accom- 
panied by  sweet  or  buttermilk. 

Aunt  Jenmy's  Johnut  Cake. 

Mix  as  above ;  knead  well,  and  bake  upon  a  perfectly 
clean  and  sweet  board,  before  a  hot  fire,  with  something  at 
the  back  to  keep  it  up.  Incline  at  such  an  angle  as  will 
prevent  the  cake  from  slipping  off,  uutil  it  is  hardened 
slightly  by  baking,  then  place  upright.  Baste  frequently 
with  butter  unto  nicely  crisped. 


.dhyGoogle 


300  COMJIOH   SEN8E. 

Battek  Beead  OB  "  Eco  Bread."  •{• 

Half  a  cup  of  bread-crumbs  soaked  iu  a  pint  of  milk 

2  eggs. 

2  cups  Indian  meal. 

1  tablespoonful  lard  yr  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  ligbt,  and  the  soaked  bread-crumbs  to  a 
Bmooth  batter.  Melt  tlie  shortening.  Stir  all  together 
very  hard,  and  bake  in  shallow  tins  very  quickly. 

KiSEN  Cork  Bread. 

Mix  a  tolerably  stiff  dough,  of  com-mcal  and  boiling 
water,  a  little  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  butter.  Let  it  stand 
four  or  five  hours  until  ligkt ;  make  into  small  loaves  and 
bake  ratlier  quickly. 

CoBN-MEAL  Pone. 

1  quart  Indian  meal, 

1  teaspoonfnl  salt. 

A  little  lard,  melted. 

Cold  water  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Mould  with  the  handa  into  thin  oblong  cakes,  lay  in  a 
weU-greased  pan,  and  bake  very  quickly. 

The  common  way  Is  to  mould  into  oval  mounds,  higher 
in  the  middle  than  at  the  ends,  shajiing  these  rapidly  and 
lightly  with  the  liands,  by  tossing  the  dough  over  and  over. 
Thia  is  done  with  great  dexterity  by  tht-  Virginia  cooks, 
Biid  this  com-meal  pone  forma  a  part  of  every  dinner.  It 
W  broken,  not  cut,  and  eaten  very  hot. 


.dhyGoogle 


GRIDDLE-CAKEB,   WATFLEB,  ETO.  301 

Asa  Cake 
Is  mixed  aa  above.  A  clean  spot  is  swept  upon  the  Lot 
iieiirth,  the  bread  put  down  and  covered  with  hot  wood- 
flsljes.  It  must  be  washed  and  wiped  dry  before  it  ia  eatea, 
A  neater  way  is  to  lay  a,  cabbage-leaf  above  and  below  tbe 
pone.  The  bread  ia  thus  steamed  before  it  ia  baked,  and  is 
made  ready  for  eating  by  stripping  off  the  leaves. 

Fried  Pone. 

Instead  of  moulding  the  dough  with  the  hands,  cut  into 
Blioea  with  a  knife.  Try  out  some  fat  pork  in  a  frying-pan, 
and  fiy  the  slices  in  the  gravy  tJxua  obtained  to  a  ligh*- 
brown. 

Griddle- Caices,  WafpiiES,  etc. 

If  yon  have  not  used  your  griddle  or  waffle-iron  foi 
Bome  time,  wash  it  off  hard  with  hot  soap  and  water ;  wipe 
aad  rub  well  with  dry  salt.  Heat  it  and  grease  with  a  bit 
of  fat  salt  pork  on  a  fork.  It  is  a  mistake,  besides  being 
slovenly  and  wasteful,  to  put  on  more  grease  than  is  abso- 
lutely necessary  to  prevent  the  cake  from  sticking.  A  piece 
of  pork  an  inch  square  should  last  for  several  days.  Put 
on  a  great  spoonful  of  butter  for  each  cake,  and  before  fill- 
ing the  gi-iddle  test  it  with  a  single  cake,  to  be  sure  that  all 
b  right  with  it  as  well  as  the  batter. 

The  same  rules  apply  to  waffles.  Always  lay  hot  caicep 
aiid  waffles  upon  a  hot  plato  as  soon  as  baked. 

BocKwiiEAT  Cakes.  •{< 
1  quart  buckwheat  flour. 


1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  handful  Indian  meal. 

2  tablespoon  fuls  molasstt 


.dhyGoogle 


302  OOMMOH   SENBE. 

Warm  water  enough  to  nia,ke  a  thin  batter.  Beat  vfTj 
well  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  If  the  batter  is  in  tha 
least  Bour  in  the  morning,  stir  in  a  very  little  soda  diasolv 
ed  in  hot  water. 

Mix  in  an  earthen  crock,  and  leave  some  in  the  bottom 
each  morning — a  cupful  or  so — to  serve  as  sponge  for  the 
next  night,  instead  of  getting  fresh  yeast.  In  cold  weather 
thia  plan  can  be  successfully  pursued  for  a  week  or  ten  days 
without  setting  a  new  supply.  Of  course  you  add  the  usual 
quantity  of  flour,  &c.,  every  night,  and  beat  up  well. 

Do  not  make  your  cakes  too  small.  Buokwheatg  should 
be  of  generous  size.  Some  put  two-thirds  buckwheat,  one- 
third  oat-meal,  omitting  the  Indian. 

Flannel  Cakes.  "J" 
1  quart  milk. 
3  tablespooofuls  yeast. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  good  batter.  Set  the  rest  of  the  ingre- 
dients as  a  sponge  over  night,  and  in  the  moraing  add  tha 
Doited  butter  and  eggs. 

CoRN-MEAi  Flapjacks. 

1  quart  sour  or  buttermilk, 

2  eggs,  beaten  light. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  "  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tttblespoonfuls  molasses. 

1  "  lard,  melted. 

■J  cup  flour. 
Meal  to  make  a  batter  a  trifle  tliicker  than  fliamel  cakes. 


.dhyGoogle 


6eiddlb-caseb,  waffles,  s7i0.  s03 

Gbaham  Cakes.  •£• 

2  cups  brown  flour, 
1  cup  white        " 

3  cups  sour  or  buttermilk. 

I  full  teaspootifid  soda,  dissolved  in  bot  water. 
J  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  heaping  tablespoonful  lard. 
3  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 

If  you  use  sweet  milk,  add  two  teaspoonfula  cream-tu 
ar      Eaie  as  soon  as  they  are  mixed. 

Auktie's  Caees  {without  Eggs). 

1  quart  sour  or  buttermilk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  soda  (amail  ones). 

Elour  to  make  a  tolerably  thick  batter. 
Stir  until  smooth — no  longer — and  bate  immediately. 

EcGLEss  Flankel  Cakes. 
1  quart  mUt, 
J  teacupfid  yeast. 
3  cups  white  flour. 
1  cup  Indian  meal. 
1  tablespoonful  lard,  melted. 


Set  oTer  night,  adding  the  lard  in  the  morning 

Grandpa's  Favoeites.  >^ 

1  quart  milk. 

2  cups  stale  bread-cmmbs. 
1  good  handful  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  molted  butter. 


.dhyGoogle 


S04  COMMON    SENSE. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Wort  the  bread  and  milk  smooth,  stir  in  the  butter  and 
eggs,  then  the  salt,  lastly  just  enough  flour  to  bind  tha 
mixture.      If  too  thick,  add  milk.     These  are  wholesome 
and  good.     Take  care  they  do  not  stick  to  the  griddle. 

Risen  Batter-Cakes, 

3  cups  white  Indian  meal. 
1  cu]>  wliite  flour, 

1  tablespooufiil  butter,  melted  and  added  in  the  mom- 
Jug. 
1  quart  milk, 

4  table  spoonfuls  of  yeaat. 

1  teaapoonful  soda  disaolved  in  hot  water,  and  addc  li  in 

tlie  morning. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Mix  over  night. 

EiCE  Caxes.  ^ 
One  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 
One  pint  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Two  eggs  beaten  light. 

Milk  to  make  a  tolerably  thick  batt«ri 
Beat  all  togetlier  well, 

HojiiBT'  Cakes.  ■{• 

2  cups  flne  Lominy,  boiled  and  cold. 
1  cup  white  flour. 

1  quart  milk. 

3  eggs,  very  well  beaten, 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 


.dhyGoogle 


OEIDDLB-OAKES,    WAFFLES,   BIO.  305 

Beat  smooth  the  hominy,  wort  in  the.  milk  and  saltj 
then  the  flour,  lastly  the  eggs.  Bake  at  once,  and  keep  tho 
mixture  well  stirred. 

Ceeam  Cakes,  •{■ 
1  pint  cream  and  same  quantity  of  milk,  slightly  sour 
4  eggs,  whites  and  yolka  whipped  separately. 
1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hoiling  water. 
1  "  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  good  batter,  well  heaten  to. 

Velvet  Cases. 
1  quart  now  unskimmed  milk— half  cream  and  half 

milk  is  preferahlo. 
3  e^s,  whites  and  yoiks  beaten  separately  and  very 

stiff. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Rice  flour, 

5Iix  tte  beaten  yolks  with  the  milk,  add  the  salt,  then 
rice  flour  to  make  a  batter  thick  as  tliat  for  flannel  cakes ; 
lastly,  whip  in  the  stiffened  whites  very  Hghtly,  and  baki 
immediately, 

KiSEN  Waffles, 
1  quart  milk. 

1  heaping  quart  flour. 
B  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 

2  eggs. 

1  tablesjioonful  melted  butter. 
1  te'ispoonful  salt. 
Set  the    mixture— minus  the  eggs   and   bnlt.ji  — otci 
night  as  a  sponge  ;  add  these  in  the  morning,  and  bake  in 
■'aflle-iroua. 


.dhyGoogle 


"  Mother's  "  "Waffles,  i^ 

2  cups  milk, 
2e^s. 

3  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoouful  cream-tartar. 

i  "  soda. 

1  saltspoonfu]  salt, 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
Sift  the  cream-tartar  into  tlie  flour  with  tie  salt,     Dis 
ftoive  the  aoda  in  a  little  hot  water.     Beat  the  eggs  verj 
well.     Add  iht,  flour  the  last  thing.     If  the  batter  is  too 
stiff,  put  to  ^ore  milk, 

AioE  Waffles  (iVb.  1).  4* 
1  cup  boiled  rioe. 

1  pint  milk, 

2  eggs. 

Lard,  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

^  teaspoonful  soda, 

1  "  cream-tartar. 

Flour  for  a  thin  batter. 

EicE  "Waffles  (JVo.  3). 
1  quart  milk. 
1  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 
3  cups  riee  flour,  or  enough  for  thin  battw. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
3  eggs. 
1  teaspoouful  salt. 

Quick  Waffles. 
1  pint  milk. 

3  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 


.dhyGoogle 


BHOETOAKE,    ETC,  301 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-tartar  sifted  in  the  floiar. 

4  "  soda. 

I  "  salt. 

A  beajjing  pint  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  soft  batter 

EicE  AND  Cogn-Meal  Waffles. 

1  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 

^  cup  white  flour,  and  same  of  corn-meal, 

2  eggs  well  whipped,  and  milk  to  make  soft  batter. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

■J  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  "  of  salt. 

Beat  the  mixture  smooth  before  baking. 
Be  especially  careful  in  greasing  your  irons  for  tnesfl 
valBes,  as  f  "*  all  which  contain  rice. 

SnOKTCAKE,   i&C. 

Sunnf/bank  S}wrteake  {for  Jruit).  ^ 

2  quarts  flour. 

2  tablespoonfula  lard. 

3  "  butter. 

2^  cups  sour  or  buttormilk.     "  Loppered  "  cream  ig 

stiU  better. 
2  eggs,  well  beaten. 
.  1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 


Chop  up  the  shortening  in  the  salted  flour,  as  for  pastry. 
Add  the  eggs  and  soda  to  the  milk ;  put  all  together,  hand- 
ling as  little  as  may  be.  RoU  lightly  and  quickly  into  twi 
sheets,  the  one  intended  for  the  upper  crust  fully  hnlf  an 


.dhyGoogle 


808  COMMON   SENSE. 

inch  tlick,  the  lowei  Ipsa  than  tim.  Lay  the  latter  smooth 
1 J  in  a  well-gre  ised  bakmg-pan,  strew  it  thickly  with  rasp 
berries,  blackhemes,  oi,  ivhat  is  better  yet,  huckleberries ; 
sprinkle  four  oi  tive  tiblespoonfuls  of  sugar  over  tlieae, 
cover  with  the  tliicker  cru&t,  and  bake  from  tweuty  to 
twenty-five  mmiitPS,  until  nicely  browned,  but  not  dried. 
Eat  hot  for  bieikfast  with  butter  and  powdered  sugar. 

K  sweet  milk  be  used,  idd  two  tea-apoonfuls  cream- 
tartar  sifted  into  the  dry  flour.  It  should  be  mixed  as  soft 
as  can  be  rolled.  This  shortcake  is  very  nice  made  with 
the  common  "  black-caps  "  or  wild  rasjiberries. 

Steawbeehy  Shoetgaee.  4* 

1  quart  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

large  cup  sour  ci-eam  or  very  rich  "  loppered  "  milk. 

egg- 

tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water, 

saltspoonful  salt. 

Proceed,  in  mixing  and  baking,  as  with  the  huckleberry 
short-cake,  except  that,  instead  of  putting  the  hemes  be- 
tween the  crust,  you  lay  one  sheet  of  paste  smootldy  upon 
the  othei,  and  hake  until  done.  While  warm — not  hot — 
sepaiate  the&e  They  will  come  apart  easily,  just  where 
they  were  joined  Lay  upon  the  lower  a  thick  coatmg, 
sevenl  deep,  of  (.trawbernes,  sprinkle  powdered  sugar 
among  and  oiei  them,  covci  with  the  upjcr  crust.  Jt 
IS  best  to  bake  btra^vbeiry  shortcike  m  lound  jelly-cake 
tins,  or  loimd  pans  a  little  deeper  than  these,  as  tliey 
ehuuld  he  sent  to  table  whole,  while  the  hot  shorttake  ia 
generally  cut  into  squ  ire  shces,  and  j  lied  upon  a  plate. 

Strawberry  ■ihoitcTke  is  esteemel  a  great  delicacy  in 


.dhyGoogle 


Ita  season.  It  is  eaten  at  tea,  cut  into  triangles  like  pie, 
aud  sweet  cream  ]ioured  over  each  slice,  with  more  angai 
lifted  over  it,  if  desired. 

Scotch  SnoiiT-BREAD. 

2  lbs.  aoiir. 

1  lb.  best  butter. 

■J  lb.  powdered  sugur. 
Chop  the  flour  and  butter  together,  having  made  the 
Is^iLer  quite  soft  by  setting  it  near  the  fire.  Knead  in  the 
su^ar,  roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  in 
shapes  with  a  cake-cutter.  Bake  upon  buttered  paper  in  a 
shallow  tin  until  crisp  and  of  a  delicate  yeOowiak  brown. 

Gkajjdma'b  SnoRTCASE. 
1  lb.  flour,  diied  and  sifted, 
J  lb.  butter,  and  half  as  much  lard. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 

A  pinch  of  soda,  thoroughly  dissolved  in  just  enouga 
vinegar  to  cover  it,  and  well  worked  in. 
Enough  ice-water  to  enable  jou  to  roll  out  into  past« 
ha.f  an  inch  thick.      Cut  into  squares,  prick  with  a  fork,  and 
hake  light  brown.     Split,  butter,  and  eat  while  hot. 

Easteu  Buks  {''Jloi  Cross"),  nj* 
3  cups  sweet  milk, 
I  cup  yeast. 

Elour  to  make  thick  batter. 
Set  this  at  a  sponge  over  night.     In  the  morning  add  — 

^  cup  butter,  melted, 

^  nutmeg. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 


.dhyGoogle 


810  COMMON   BEN8B. 

■pldur  enough  to  roll  out  like  biscuit.  Enead  well,  an* 
set  to  rise  for  five  hoiirs.  Roll  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into 
round  cakes,  and  lay  in  rows  in  a  buttered  baking  pan 
Wiien  they  have  stood  half  an  hour,  make  a  crosiS  upon 
each  with  a  knife,  and  put  instantly  into  the  oven,  Eaka 
to  a  light  brown,  and  brush  over  with  a  feather  or  eoiV 
bit  of  rag,  dipped  in  tlie  white  of  an  egg  beaten  up  stiff 
with  white  sugar. 

These  are  the  "  hot  cross-buns"  of  the  "  London  cries." 

Plain  Boks 
Are  made  as  above,  but  not  rolled  into  a  sheet.  Knead 
them  like  biscuit-dough,  taking  care  not  to  get  it  too  stiff, 
and  after  the  five-hour  rising,  work  in  two  or  three  haud- 
fuls  of  currants  which  have  been  previously  well  washed 
and  dredged  with  flour.  Mould  with  your  handa  iato 
round  balls,  set  these  closely  together  in  a  pan,  that  they 
may  form  a  loaf—"  one,  yet  many  "—when  baked.  Let 
them  stand  nearly  an  hour,  or  until  very  light ;  then  bake 
from  half  to  tbree-quaitera  of  an  hour  until  brown.  Wash 
them  over  while  hot  with  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar. 

These  are  generally  eaten  cold,  or  bai-ely  warm,  and  are 
best  the  day  they  are  baked. 


Use  none  lut  the  bebt  mitiiuls  frr  miking  cike  If 
you  cannot  afftid  to  get  good  flour,  dry  uhite  sugd,r,  and 
the  best  famuy  butter,  make  up  your  mmd  to  go  without 
your  CTl.e,  and  eat  plain  bread  with  a  char  consaence 

There  are  no  iiitermedid,te  degiees  of  quahtj  m  eggs, 
.1  ])elie\e  I  hate  sail  thtt  somenheie  else,  but  it  ought  to 
be  repeated  just  here  They  should  be,  like  C-esar's  wife, 
above  suspicion  A  tm  wlnsk  rr  whip  la  best  for  beit- 
ing  them.     All  kinds  of  cake  aie  letter  lor  hivmg  thu 


.dhyGoogle 


OAKS.  311 

whilm  and  yolks  beaten  Beparately.  Beat  the  former  in  a 
large  sliallow  dish  until  you  can  cut  througli  the  froth  ivith 
a  knife,  leaving  aa  cleaj-  and  distinct  an  iucision  aa  yon 
would  in  a  solid  substance.  Beat  the  yolks  in  an  earthen- 
ware bowl  unto  they  cease  to  froth,  and  thicken  as  if  mixed 
with  flour.  Have  the  dishes  coo^-not  too  cold.  It  ia 
hard  to  whip  whites  stiff  in  a  warm  room. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Cakes  often  fail 
because  this  rule  is  not  followed.  Boat  these  as  faithfuDy 
as  you  do  tJie  eggs,  warming  the  butter  very  slightly  if 
Laid.  Use  only  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon  in  this  as  in 
other  parts  of  your  work.  I  have  heard  of  silver  e^- 
whips,  but  they  are  not  likely  to  come  into  general  nse,  ex- 
cept  where  the  mistress  makes  all  the  cake,  pudding,  etc. 

Do  not  use  fresh  and  stale  milk  in  the  same  cake.  It  acta 
as  disastrously  as  a  piece  of  new  cloth  in  an  old  garment. 
Sour  niUk  makes  a  spongy  cake ;  sweet,  ,ine  closer  in  grain. 
Study  the  moods  and  tenses  of  your  open  carefully  be- 
fore essaying  a  loaf  of  cake.  Confine  your  early  efforts  to 
tea-cakes  and  the  like.  Jelly-cake,  baked  in  shallow  flat 
tins,  is  good  practice  during  the  novitiate.  Keep  the  heat 
steady,  and  as  good  at  bottom  as  hot. 

Streaks  in  cake  are  caused  by  unskilful  mixing,  too 
rapid  or  unequal  baking,  or  a  sudden  decrease  in  heat  be- 
fore the  cake  is  quite  done. 

Don't  delude  yourself,  and  maltreat  those  who  are  to 
eat  your  cake,  by  trying  to  make  soda  do  the  whole  or  most 
of  the  duty  of  e^s.  Others  have  tried  it  before,  with  un- 
fortunate  results.  If  curiosity  tempt  you  to  the  experi- 
ment, you  had  better  allay  it  by  buying  some  sponge-cake 
(.t  the  corner  bakery. 

Test  whether  a  cake  is  done  by  running  a  clean  straw 
into  the  thickest  part.     It  should  come  up  clean. 

I>o  not  leave  the  ovou-door  open,  or  change  the  cake 


.dhyGoogle 


Sli  COMMON    SENSE. 

from  one  oven  to  the  other,  except  in  extreme  cases.  ]f  it 
hartlen  too  fest  on  the  top,  cover  witli  paper,  It  should 
rise  to  full  lieiglit  befoi-e  the  crust  forms. 

Except  for  gingerbread,  use  none  but  white  sugar. 

Always  sift  the  flour. 

Be  accurate  in  your  weights  and  measures. 

There  is  no  short  road  to  good  fortune  in  cake-making 
W/iat  is  worth  doing  at  all  is  worth  doing  well.  There  ia 
no  disgrace  in  not  having  time  to  mix  and  bake  a  cake 
f^ou  may  well  be  ashamed  of  yourself  if  you  are  too  lazy, 
or  cai^less,  or  hurried  to  heat  your  eggs,  cream  your  butter 
and  sugar,  or  measure  your  ingredients. 

Yet,  sometimes,  when  you  believe  you  have  left  no 
means  untried  to  deserve  success,  failure  is  your  portion. 
What  tlien  ? 

If  the  cake  be  uneatable,  throw  it  away  upon  the  first 
beggar-boy  who  comes  for  broken  meat,  and  say  nothing 
about  it.  If  streaky  or  burned,  cut  out  the  best  parts, 
make  tJiem  presentable  as  possible,  and  give  them  to  John 
and  the  children  as  a  "  second-best "  treat.  Then  keep  up 
a  brave  heart  and  try  again.  You  may  vat  satisfy  your- 
self in  a  dozen  trials.  You  certainly  vMl  not,  if  you  never 
make  another  attempt. 

Cake  sliould  be  wi-apped  in  a  thick  cloth  as  soon  xa 
cool,  and  kept  in  tight  tin  boxes.  Do  not  cut  more  at  \ 
time  than  you  are  likely  to  use,  as  it  is  not  good  when  dry. 
Jelly-cakes  are  best  set  away  upon  plates,  cloths  wrapped 
closely  about  them,  and  a  box  enclosing  all. 

Cream  your  sugar  and  butter,  measure  milk,  apices,  etc., 
before  beginning  work.  For  fruit-cake  it  is  best  to  pre- 
pare the  materials  the  day  before.  Let  your  icing  dry 
thoroughly  before  wrapping  up  the  cake. 

Sift  y/m  Jtowr  hefore  measuring,  as  all  the  following 
receipts  ai'o  for  sifted  flour. 


.dhyGoogle 


dins.  3J3 

ICINO.  t^ 

Wiitea  of  4  eggs. 
1  pound  powdered  white  sugar. 
Lemon,  vaniJla,  or  other  seasoning. 
Break  the  whites  into  a  broad,  clean,  cool  dish.  Throw 
•  small  handful  of  sugar  upon  them,  and  begin  whippin»  il 
in  with  long,  even  stroke,  of  the  beater.  A  tew  nnnu'tes 
later,  throw  in  more  sugsr,  and  keep  adding  it  at  inter™!, 
until  it  ,s  «n  used  up.  Boat  perieveringly-alwa,,  with  a 
regukr,  sweeping  movemont  of  the  wInJi— until  the  ieing 
IS  of  a  amootb,  fine,  and  firm  toxtui-e.  Half  an  hour's 
beating  should  he  sufHoient,  if  done  well.  If  not  stilT  en- 
ough, put  in  more  sugar.  A  httle  practice  will  teach  you 
when  your  end  is  gained.  If  you  season  with  lemon-juice 
anew,  m  measuring  your  sugar,  for  the  additional  liquid. 
Lemon-juice  or  a  veiy  Uttle  tai-taric  acid  whitens  the  icmg 
Use  ul  leal  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  egg. 

This  method  of  making  icing  was  taught  me  by  a  con- 
fectioner, as  easier  and  surer  than  tie  old  pta  of  beating 
the  eggs  first  and  alone.  I  have  used  no  other  since  my 
first  tn.1  of  it.  The  itosling  hardens  in  one-fourth  the 
nue  required  under  the  former  plan,  and  not  more  thu, 
half  the  time  is  consumed  in  the  mannikctu™.  I  have 
often  iced  a  cake  but  two  hours  before  it  was  cut,  and  found 
the  sugar  dry  all  through. 

Pour  the  icmg  by  the  spoonful  on  the  top  of  the  eak. 
and  near  the  omtre  of  the  surface  to  be  covered.  If  the 
loaf  M  of  such  a  shape  that  the  liquid  will  settle  of  itoelf  to 
Its  place,  il  is  best  to  let  it  do  so.  If  you  spread  il  use  a 
broad-Haded  knife,  dipped  in  cold  water.  If  it  is  as  thick 
with  sugar  as  it  should  be,  you  need  not  lay  on  more  than 
one  coat.  You  may  sot  il  hi  a  moderate  oven  foi  three 
nnnutes,  if  you  are  in  great  haste.     Tho  better  pl.n  is  to 


-dhyGoogle 


:jtt4   ^^    ■■    "  COMMON    SENBB, 

dry  in  a  aunny  window,  where  tke  air  can  get  at  it^  i»iid 
where  there  is  no  dust. 

Color  icing  yellow  by  putting  the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon 
or  orange  in  a  thin  muslin  bag,  straining  a  little  juic« 
through  it,  and  squeezing  it  hard  into  the  egg  and  sugar. 

Strawberry-juice  colors  a  pretty  pink,  as  does  also  cranr 
berry-syrup. 

ALMOifD  Icing. 
Whites  of  four  eggs. 
1  pound  sweet  almonds. 
1      "      powdered  sugar. 
A  little  rose-water, 
Blanch  the  almonds  by  pouring  boiling  water  o-ver  them 
and  stripping  off  the  skina.     When  dry,  pound  them  to  a 
paate,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  moistening 
it  with  rose-water  as  you  go  on.     When  beaten  fine  and 
smooth,  beat  gradually  into   icing,  prepared  according   to 
forgoing  receipt. 

Put  on  very  thick,  and,  when  nearly  dry,  cover  with 
plain  icing. 

This  is  very  fine. 

Or, 
Mingle  a  few  bitter  almonds  with  the  sweet.     The  blended 
flavor  of  these  and  the  rose  water  is  very  pleasant. 

MAKTHi'a  Cake  iJFor  Jelly).  ■{• 
3  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar,  ^  ' 

Butter,  the  size  of  an  egg.    ^^       ' 
1  cup  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-tartar,  sifted  in  the  floor. 
^  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  mUk. 
Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  and  spread,  when  cold,  witk 
fruit  jelly. 


;dhyG00gle 


OAKE.  515 

This  in,  although  so  simple  and  ijiexpemive,  an  admira- . 
ble  foundation  for  the  various  hl'Ai  of  jelly,  cream,  and 
■nhingue  cake,  which  are  always  ^.opular.  It  seldom  fails, 
and  when  well  mixed  a^d  baked,  ia  veiy  nice, 

Mrs.  M.'s  Cup  Cake.  •{• 

1  cup  butter. 

2  "     sugar, 

3  cups  flour 

1  cup  sweet  miiy. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
Bake  in  a  loaf,  or  as  jeUy-cake. 

Ceeam-Cake.  •{• 

3  cups  powderod  sugar 
|-  cupful  butter. 

4  e^s. 

i  cupful  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  soda,  ■    • 

I  "  cream-tartar. 

3  cups  flour. 
Bake  in  thin  layers  aa  for  jelly-cake,  and  spread  b» 

tween  them  when  cold  the  following  mixture  : 

J-  pint  of  milk. 

2  small  teaspoonfula  corn-starch, 
legg. 

I  teaspoonful  vanilla, 
i  cup  sugar. 
Heat  the  milk  to  boDiug,  and  stir  in  the  corn-starch 
wet  with  a  little  «old  milk ;  take  out  a  little  and  mix  grad- 
ually with  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar ;  retm-n  to  the  rest  of 
the  custard,  and  boil,  etirring  constantly  imtil  quite  thick 


^v^      ^  .  H„:,.,eoogic 


316  COMMON   8EN8B. 

Let  it  cool  before  you  seasoQj  and  spread  on  cake,     Seaaop 
the  icing  also  with  vanilla. 

Jelly-Cake. 
1  lb.  Bugar. 
1   «  flour. 
■J-  "  butter. 
6  eggs. 
1  Clip  milk. 
^  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  "  cream-tartar. 

Bake  in  shallow  tins,  and,  when  cool,  put  jelly  between 

CoCOAifUT-CAKE.  •{« 

3  cups  powdered  sugar. 
J  cup  butter. 
3  e^s, 

1  cup  milk.  ^ 
3  cups  flour. 

2  teaspooufuls  cream-tartar. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 
Bake  as  for  jelly-cake. 

Mllinff. 
I  grated  cocoanut. 

To  one-half  of  this  add  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a 

fcoth,  and  1  eup  of  powdered  sugar.     Lay  this  b©> 

tween  the  layers. 

Mix  with  the  other  half  of  the  grated  cocoanut  four 

tasdesjioonfuls  powdered  sugar,  and  strew  thicklj  on  t;p 

of  cake. 

Eosib's  Cocoakut-Cake. 

2  cups  flour. 
IJ-    "    sugar. 


.dhyGoogle 


i  cup  butter, 

J   "    sweet  Ti'lT'' 

3  eggs. 

1  teaapoonfid  cream-tart». 


Sift  ( 


n-tartar  and  soda  into  the  dry  flour;  croain 
thti  butter  and  sugar ;  add  the  beaten  e^s,  then  the  injlk ; 
lastly  the  flour.     Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins. 

Grate  oiio  cocoamit ;  mix  with  it  a  cup  and  a  half  of 
white  sugar,  also  the  milk  of  the  cocoanut.  Ket  the  mix. 
turo  in  the  oven  until  the  sugar  melts;  then  spread  be- 
tween the  cates. 

Loaf  Cocoanut  Cake. 
1  lb.  sugar. 
^   "   butter. 
G  eggs. 
i  lb.  flour. 

1  "  finely  grated  cocoanut,  stin-ed  lightly  in  the  Inei 
thing. 

Bate  immediately, 

"  One,  Two,  Three,  Foub  "  Cocoanut-Cakb. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  "    flour. 

4  eggs  (the  whites  only). 
1  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoonfu!  cream-tartar,  1 

1  «  g^^^  }  sifted  into  the  flonr, 

J  small  cocoanut,  stirred  in  at  the  last. 


>,Gooc^le 


olS  COMMOH   SENSE. 

Cocoamut-Caces  {Sma^. 

1  cocoanut,  carefully  skinned  and  grated. 

Milk  of  the  same. 

IJ-  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

As  mucli  water  as  you  have  cocoanut  mil  It, 

Wiiites  of  three  eggs. 
Dissolve  one  pound  of  sugar  in  tlie  milk  and  water. 
Stew  until  it  becomes  a  "  ropy  "  syrup,  and  turn  out  into 
a  buttered  dish.  Have  ready  the  beaten  white  of  e^, 
with  the  remaining  half-pound  of  sugar  whipped  into  it ; 
mix  with  this  tlie  gi'ated  cocoanut,  and  little  by  little, 
boating  all  the  while  the  boiled  syrup,  so  soon  as  it  coola 
sufficiently  not  to  scald  the  eggs.  Drop  in  tablespoonfula 
upon  buttered  papers.  Try  one  first,  and  if  it  runs,  beat 
in  more  sugar.  Bake  in  a  rery  moderate  oven,  watching 
to  prevent  scorching.  They  should  not  be  suffered  to 
brown  at  all. 

These  will  keep  some  time,  but  are  best  quite  fresh. 

CocoASDT  Coses, 
1  lb.  powdered  sugar, 
i  "    grated  cocoanut. 
Whites  of  6  eggs, 
"Whip  the  eggs  as  for  icing,  adding  the  sugar  as  you  go 
on,  until  it  will  stand  alone,  then  beat  in  the  cocoanut. 

Mould  the  mixture  with  your  hands  into  small  cones, 
and  set  these  far  enough  apart  not  to  touch  one  another 
upon  buttered  paperin  a  baking-pan.  Bake  in  a  very  mod© 
nte  oven. 

Lee  Cake.  ■{• 


.^hyGoogle 


J  lb.  flour. 
2  lemons. 
Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately;  add  to  all  the  yolks 
and  the  whites  of  seven  eggs  the  sugar,  the  rind  of  two 
lemoiJ,  and  juice  of  one.     Bake  as  for  jelly-cake. 

To  the  whites  of  three  eggs  allow  a  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  powdered  sugar  j  heat  stiif  as  for  icing,  take  out  enough 
to  cover  the  top  of  the  cake  and  set  aside.  Add  to  the  rest 
the  jiiice  and  half  the  grated  rind  of  a  large  orange.  Wien 
the  cake  is  nearly  cold,  spread  this  between  the  layers. 
Beat  into  the  icing  reserved  for  the  top  a  little  lemon-j  nice, 
and,  if  needed,  more  sugar.  It  should  be  stiffer  than  that 
spread  between  the  cakes. 

You  can  make  a  very  delightful  variation  of  this  elegant 
cake,  by  spreading  the  orange  icing  between  layers  made  ac- 
cording to  the  receipt  given  for  "  Martha's  Jelly-Oake " 
several  pages  back,  and  fi-ostiug  with  lemon  m^rinffue,  as 
above. 

White-Moubtais  Cake. 

3  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  butter. 

i   "     sweet  milk. 

Whites  of  ton  eggs.  » 

i  teaspoonful  soda,  1    .  . 

1  "  cream-tartar    f  ^^°^  '^^^  '^^  ^°^* 

H  cups  flour. 

Flavor  with  essence  of  bitter  almond. 

Icing,  whites  of  3  eggs,  1  lb.  powdered  sugar,  Flavor 
with  lemon-juice.  Bake  in  jeliy-cake  tins,  and  fill  with 
graled  cocoanut,  sweetened  with  a  quarter  of  its  weight  ol 
powdered  sugai-,  or  with  icing  su6h  as  is  made  for  Lee  cake. 
"ilj  flavored  with  lemon  entirely. 


;dhyGoogle 


521)  common  sense. 

Fbench  Caee. 
1  lb.  sugar. 
J  "    butter. 
1  "    cin'rants,  waslied  clean  and  dredged  with  flout, 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

Nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste, 

(   teaspoonful   soda  dissolved   in  tbree    tablespoonfnli 

Lemon-Cake  (^0.  I). 
1  lb.  sugar, 

12  e^s,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
J-  lb.  flour. 

Juiee  and  rind  of  a  lemon. 
Icuig  flavored  ■with  same. 
Baked  ia  small  square  tins,  and  iced  on  sides  and  t(ip, 
these  are  sometimes  called  bisciiits  glacis. 

Lemon-Cake  {Ifo.  2). 

1  cup  of  butter  (packed). 

2  scant  cups  of  sugar. 

10  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately. 
1  small  cup  of  milk. 
Juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon. 
1  small  tea-spoonful  soda, 
Hour  to  make  tolerably  thin  batter   (between  two  and 
three  cups).     Of  some  qualities  of  flour  three  cups  will  b« 
needed. 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Lady-Caee  (JVb.  1). 
i  lb.  butter. 
1    "  flour. 


.dhyGoogle 


1  teaspoonfol  cream-tartar. 

1  lb,  Bngar, 
i  pint  milk. 

LiDT-CAKE    (iVo.    2).   1^ 

1  lb.  sugar. 

f  "  sifted  flour. 

6  oz.  butter. 

The  whipped  whiles  often  egga. 
Elavor  with  bitter  almond,  and  bake  in  square,  not  rerj 
deep  tills.     Flavor  the  frosting  with  vanilla.     The  combinu. 
tion  is  very  pleasant. 

Sister  Mao's  Cakb.  •{• 
2J  cups  powdered  sugar, 

|-  cup  of  butter. 
1      "   sweet  milV. 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

1  lemon,  juice  and  rind. 
1  small  toaspoonfiil  soda. 
Bake  in  a  square  or  oblong  tin,  and  frost  with  flhilM 
of  two  egga  beaten  stiff  with  powdered  sugar, 

Dover  Cake.  ^ 
1  lb,  flour. 
1    "  white  sugar, 
i   "  butter,  rubbed  with  the  sugar  to  a 

vsri/  light  cream. 
6  egga. 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 


.Google 


322  COMMON   SENSE. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  i 
1  "  powdered 

1  teblespoonfiii  rose-water. 
Flavor  the  frosting  with  lemon-jiiice. 

Chocolate  Cake.  ^ 
2  cups  of  sugar. 
1  cup  butter. 

The  yolka  of  five  eggs  and  whites  of  two. 
1  cup  of  milk. 
3J  cups  fiour. 
^  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  "  Creatn-tai-tar,  sifted  into  the  flour. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins. 

Jtfixtwre  for  fdling. 
WMtes  of  three  eggs. 
IJ  cup  sugar. 

3  tablespoonfiils  grated,  chocolate. 
1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
Beat  well  together,  spread  between  the  layers  uii]  oi 
lup  of  cake. 

Caramel  Cake.  »{• 

3  cups  sugar. 
IJ  "  butter. 
I  cup  nulk. 

4  J  cup  a  flour. 
6  eggs. 

Small  teaspoonful  soda. 
3  teaapoonfuls  cream-tartar. 


hyGoogIc 


Cairamd  for  JUling. 
IJ  cup  brown  sugar. 
\  cup  milk, 
1    "    molasses.  " 

1  teaspoonful  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  flour. 
3  "  cold  water. 

Boil  this  tJsture  five  minutes,  add  half  a  cake  Baker's 
chocolate  (grated),  boil  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  rich 
custard.  Add  a  pinch  of  soda,  stir  well,  and  remove  from 
fire. 

When  cold,  flavor  vrith  a  large  teaspoonful  vanill^  and 
spread  between  the  layers  of  cake,  which  should  be  baked 
as  for  jeUj-cake.  Cover  the  top  with  the  same,  and  set  in 
an  open,  sunny  window  to  dry. 

The  above  quantity  will  make  two  large  cakea. 

MabbU)  Cake. 
lAgkt. 
1  cup  white  ai^ar. 
J    "    bntter. 

Whites  of  3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-tartwr. 

2  cups  fiour, 

^  cup  brown  sugar. 
J    "    butter. 
^    "    molasses. 
J    "    milk. 


<    Google 


COMMOH    6EN8E. 

i  ntttmeg. 

1  teaapoonful  cipnamon. 
■J  "  allspice. 

i  "  soda, 

2  cups  flour. 
Yolks  of  three  eggs. 

n  the  dark  and  1 


tor  in  alternate  tablespoonfuls. 

Makblbd  Cake.  ^ 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar. 

3  "    flour. 

1  cup  sweet  milt. 

i  teaspoonful  soda, 

1  "  cream-tartar  sifted  with  the  flour. 

When  the  cake  is  mixed  take  out  about  a  teacupful  of 
the  batter,  and  stir  into  this  a  great  spoonful  of  grated 
chocolate,  wet  with  a  scant  tablespoonful  qf  milk.  Fill 
your  mould  about  an  inch  deep  with  the  yellow  batter,  and 
drop  u])On  this,  in  two  or  three  places,  a  spoonful  of  the 
dark  mixture.  Give  to  the  brown  spots  a  slight  stir  with 
the  tip  of  your  spoon,  spreading  it  in  broken  circles  upon 
■Ae'  lighter  surface.  Pour  In  more  yellow^Batter,  then  drop 
In  the  brown  in  the  same  manner  as  before,  proceeding  in 
this  order  until  all  is  used  up.  ^VTien  cut,  the  cake  will 
be  found  to  be  handsomely  variegated. 

Or, 

You  may  color  the  reserved  cupful  of  batter  with  enough 
prepared  cochineal  to  give  it  a  fine  pink  tint,  and  mix  an 
you  do  the  brown. 


.dhyGoogle 


Chocolate  Icing  {Simpk). 

i  cake  chocolate. 

i  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  teblespoonful  corn-starch. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Caramels  (C/wcolale). 

2  cups  brown  siigar. 
1  Clip  molasses, 

1  tablespoonful  (heaping)  of  butter. 

3  tablespooufula  flour. 

BoH  twenty-fiye  minutes ;  then  stir  in  half  a  t.o„„^  nf 

«.td  .t  hardens  on  the  spoon,  with  which  you  must  stir  ^ 
frequently.     Flavor  with  a  tea«poonful  of  vaniHa. 

Chocolate  IiIclairs 
4  egga. 

The  weight  oi  the  eggs  in  sugar. 

Half  their  weight  in  flour. 

i  t«.poonM  «,d.,  ■  ,  ,ifM  ^,  ^,^  ,1^^ 

1  creajn-tartar,  )       flo,ip. 

If  jou  bake  the.,  oft.o,  it  mil  b,  „rtt  .  j 

l»v.  ».*  at  th.  ttaeA  a  .et  of  .^  tii  aW  fi  v, 
u,.ta  long  a.,d  two  wide,  re™d  .»  a,  bot,.^,  .^  W 
firm  by  stnp,  „t  tin  conneelizi.  them      If  v™,  » 

ttea,,  ^*  .tiff  „iti.,„,e/i„t„Ie  "mf  "TlS 
".g  eaeh  of  ,he  little  caooe.  to  i,.  „i,„bo,  .iTS.  m"' 


.dhyGoogle 


ner  of  a  pootooa  bridge.  Havt  tJioae  made  and  buttered 
before  you  rniv  the  cake ;  put  a  spoonful  of  batter  in  each, 
and  bake  iu  a  steady  oven.  Wkeo  nearly  cold,  cover  the 
rounded  side  with,  a  caramel  icing,  made  according  to  the 
foregoing  receipt. 

These  little  cakes  are  popular  favorites,  and  with  a  lit- 
tle praiitice  can  he  easily  and  quickly  made. 

Eu-ik's  Cakb,  •{« 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

J       "     butter. 

3  eggs. 

^  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-tartar. 

^  "  soda. 

2^  cups  flour. 
Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  and  fill  with  jelly  or  ciiocolata 
A.  fdmple  and  excellent  cake. 

SpOnge  Oake, 
1  teacup  powdered  sugar. 
3  eggs. 

■J  teaspoonful  cream-tartar, 
^  "  soda, 

1  teaeupfiil  flour. 
Flavor  with  lemon — half  the  juice  and  half  the  rind  at 
me.     Bake  twenty  minutes  in  shallow  tins. 

Mrs.  M.'s  Sponge-Cake.  •{■ 

12  eggs. 

The  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sugar. 
Half  their  weight  in  flour. 
1  lemon,  juice  and  rind. 


H..l^d..;GOOC^IC 


CASE.  827 

Beat  yolis  Mid  whites  very  light,  the  sugar  into  the 
former  when  they  are  smooth  and  stiff;  next,  tte  juice  and 
grated  peel  of  the  lemon,  then  the  flour;  lastly,  the  beaten 
whites,  very  lightly. 

The  lady  from  whom  1  had  this  admirable  receipt  waa 
"lelehrated  among  her  acquaintamcea  for  her  beautiful  anti 
lelicioTis  sponge-cake. 

"WHch  should  always  be  baked  in  tins  lite  these," 
Bbe  said  to  me  once,  sportively,  "^it  does  not  taste  just 
right"  ^ 

The  moulds  were  lite  a  krge  brick  in  shape,  with  al- 
most perpendicular  sides.  1  instantly  gave  an  order  for  a 
couple  precisely  like  them,  and  reaUy  fencied  that  cake 
baked  in  them  was  a  little  better  than  in  any  other  form. 
But  you  can  hardly  faO  of  success  if  you  prepare  yours  pre- 
cisely as  I  have  directed,  bake  in  whatever  shape  you  will. 
Be  careful  that  your  oven  is  steady,  and  cover  the  cake 
with  paper,  to  prevent  bujning. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  line  the  pans  in  which  sponge-cake 
is  baked  with  buttered  paper,  fitted  neatly  to  the  adec 
and  bottom. 

PouHD  Cake  {Iriro.  1). 
1  lb.  sugar. 

1  "  flour, 
f  "  butter. 
9  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
1  "  soda. 

Cream  the  bitter  and  sugar  with  great  care ;  beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  separately;  sift  the  cream-tartar  wel' 
through  the  flour.     Add  the  flonr  last. 


.dhyGooQie 


COMMON    8EN8B, 

Pound  Cake  (Ho. 

2)- 

1  lb.  flour. 

1  "    eggs. 

1  "  sugar. 

1  "    butter. 

1  glass  trandy. 

1  nutmeg. 

1  teaspOOnful  mace. 

Cream  half  the  flour  with  tlie  butter,  and  add  brandy  and 
epice.  Beat  the  yolks  until  light,  add  the  sugar,  then  the 
beaten  whites  and  tlie  rest  of  the  flour  alternately.  When 
this  is  thoroughly  mixed,  put  all  together  and  beat  steadilj 
for  half  an  hour. . 

If  properly  made  and  baked  this  is  a  splendid  cake. 

Wasuington  Cake, 
3  cups  sugar. 
2     «     bntter. 
5  eggs. 

1  cup  milk. 
i  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  Cream-tartar. 
1  teaapoonful  soda. 

Mix  as  usual  and  stir  in,  at  the  last, 

^  lb.  currants  well  washed  and  dredged. 

J  "    raiaina  seeded  aad  chopped  fine,  then  floored. 

A  handful  of  citron  sliced  fine. 

Ciimamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 
Fruit-cake  takes  lontjerto  bake  than  plain,  and  the  hea' 
must  bo  kept  steady. 

Lincoln  Oakk. 
1  lb.  butter. 


.dhyGoogle 


1  lb.  flour. 
6  eggs. 

2  cups  sour  cream  or  millf, 
1  grated  nutmeg, 

1  teaspoonfiil  powdered  cinnamon. 
1  tablespoonful  rose-water, 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  stirred 
into  the  milk  jnst  before  adding  the  latter  to  the 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  put  vnth  them  the  yolka 
whipped  light,  then  the  cream  and  siiice,  next  the  flour, 
then  the  rose-water,  and  a  double-handful  of  citron  cut  in 
filipa  and  dredged  ;  finally,  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Stir  all  Weil,  and  bake  in  a  loaf  or  in  a  "  card,"  using  a 
square  shallow  baking-pan. 

This  is  a  good  caie  and  keeps  well. 

Black  ok  Wedding  Cakr 
1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
1  "    butter. 
1  "    flour. 
12  eggs, 

1  lb,  currants  well  washed  and  dredged. 
1  "    raisins  seeded  and  chopped. 
^  "    citron  cut  into  slips, 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

2  t«aBpoonfuls  nutraeg, 
1  "  clores. 

1  wineglass  brandy. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  tha 
iggB,  and  stir  all  weU  together  before  putting  in  half  of  tha 
flour.      The  spice  should  come  next,  then   the  whippeiJ 


.dhyGoogle 


830  COMMON   BENSB. 

whites  stirred  in  alteinately  with  tte  rest  of  th'o  floui 
lastly  the  braudy. 

Tho  above  quantity  is  for  two  large  cakes.  Bake  at 
least  two  hours  in  deep  tins  lined  with  well-buttered  pa- 
l)er. 

Tlie  icing  should  be  laid  on  stiff  and  tliickly.  Thin 
cako,  if  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  will  not  spoil  in  two 
months. 

I  have  eaten  wedding-cake  a  year  old. 

Test  the  oakea  weU,  and  be  sure  ttey  are  quite  dooa 
before  taking  them  from  the  OTen. 

Feuit-Cake  (plainer). 
1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

f  "  butter, 

7  eggs. 

i  lb,  currants — washed,  picked  over,  and  dredged. 

^   "  raisins — seeded  and  chopped,  tbon  dredged. 

i    "   citron  cut  into  slips, 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg.^ 

1  glass  brandy. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  beaten  yolka,  thm 
the  spice  and  the  whipped  whites  alternately  with  tha 
flour ;  the  fruit  and  brandy  last. 


Almond  Cake. 


I  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
1    "  flour. 
J  "  butter. 
fieggs. 


.dhyGooc^le 


1  coffee-cupful  sweet  almonds,  blanched  by  putting  tbem 
into  hot  water,  and,  when  stripped  of  their  skina 
and  perfectly  cold,  beaten  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a 
Wedgcwood  moi-tar,  with  a  little  rose-water  ajid  half  » 
teaspoouful  essence  of  bitter  almonds. 

Beat  whites  and  yolis  separately ;  stir  butter  and  sugai 
to  a  cream  ;  add  to  this  the  yolta ;  beat  very  hard  before 
putting  in  the  flour ;  stir  in  the  almond-paste  alternatelj 
with  the  whites.     Put  in  the  brandy  last. 

Season  the  icing  with  rose-water. 

Nut-Cake.  ^ 

2  cups  sugar, 
1  cup  butter. 

3  cups  flour, 

1  cup  cold  water, 

4  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuis  cream-tartar. 

2  cupfuls  kernels  of  hickory-nuts  or  white  walnuta, 
carefully  picked  out,  and  added  last  of  all. 

Gold  Caxe.  «{» 
1  lb.  sugar. 
J  "  butter.  ' 

1   "  flour. 

Yolks  of  ten  eggs — well  beaten. 
Grated  rind  of  one  orange,  and  juice  of  two  iemona, 
1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  wate.-. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  stir  in  the  yolks. 
Beat  very  hard  for  five  minutes  before  putting  in  the  flour. 
The  soda  next,  and  lastly  the  lemon-juice,  in  which  tha 
grated  orange-peel  should  have  been  steeped  and  stiaiued 


.dhyGoogle 


out  in  a  piece  of  thin  muslin,  leaving  the  £lavorij:.g  and 
coloring  matter  in  the  juice. 

Flavor  the  icing  also  with  lemon. 

Silver  Cake.  "J" 
1  lb.  sugar. 

J  "  butter. 

Whites  of  ten  e^a — whipped  very  etiff. 
1  large  teaspoonful  essence  bitter  almonds. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  piit  next  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  ;  then  the  fiour,  lastly  tlie  flavoring. 

Make  gold  and  silver  cake  on  the  same  day  ;  bake  them 
iu  tins  of  corresponding  size,  and  lay  them  in  alternate 
slices  in  the  cake-baaket.  flavor  the  icing  of  silver  cake 
with  rose-water, 

Aljiojtd  Macaeoons, 
Prepare  the  almonds  the  day  before  you  make  the  cakes, 
by  blanching  them  in  boiling  water,  stripping  off  the  skins, 
and  pounding  them  when  perfectly  cold — a  few  at  a  time — 
iu  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  adding  from  time  to  time  a  little 
rose-water.  When  beaten  to  a  smooth  paste,  stir  in,  to  a 
pound  of  the  sweet  almonds,  a  generous  tablespoonfnl  of 
essence  of  bitter  almonds  ;  cover  closely,  and  set  away  in  a 
cold  place  until  the  morrow.     Then  to  a  pound  of  the  nuta 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

The  beaten  whites  of  eight  eggs,  and 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
Stir  the  sugar  and  white  of  egg  lightly  together ;  then 
whip  in  gradually  the  almond-paste. 

Line  a  broad  baking-pan  with  buttered  white  paper; 


.dhyGoogle 


OA£E.  333 

drop  upon  this  spooafula  of  the  mixture  at  sucL  (listancea 
apart  as  shall  prevent  their  running  together.  Sift  pow- 
dered sugar  thickly  upon  each,  and  bake  iu  a  quick  ovea 
to  a  delicate  brown. 

Try  the  mixture  first,  to  make  sure  it  is  of  the  right 
consistency,  and  if  the  macaroons  run  into  irregular  ahapeSj 
beat  in  more  sugar.  This  will  hardly  happen,  however,  il 
the  mixture  is  already  well  beaten. 

HucKLEBERiiY  Cake.  "J« 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  "  nutmeg,  and  the  same  of  cinnamon. 

1  quart  ripe,  fresh  huckleberries,  tliick}y  dredged  with 
flour. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  beaten 
yolks ;  then  the  milk,  the  flour,  and  spice,  the  whites  whip- 
ped slitf',  and  the  soda.  At  the  last  stir  in  the  huckleber- 
ries with  a  wooden  spoon  or  paddle,  not  to  bruise  them. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  or  card,  in  a  moderate  but  steady  oven,  until 
a  straw  comes  out  clean  from  the  thickest  part. 

This  is  a  delicious  cake,  and  deserves  to  be  better  known. 

CoRs-SiAiicn  Cake.  •{• 

1  cup  butter,  j 

1  cup  milk. 

2  cupa  flour. 

3  eggs,  wliites  and  jolks  beaten  separately. 


.dhyGoogle 


334  COMMON   SKKBK. 

}  cup  com-atarch, 

2  teaspoonfuls cream-tartar,  sifted  well  tlirongh  tLe  fioTir, 

1  "  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Sifi  the  corn-starch  with  the  flour,  and  add  tho  last  thing, 
Bake  in  small  tins  ajid  eat  while  fresh.  They  diy  in  two 
or  three  days  and  become  insipid,  but  are  very  mce  foi 
twenty-foiir  hours  after  they  are  baked. 

White  Cake. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cnps  sugar. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 
WMtes  of  five  e^a. 

3  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 

COOKIES,  ETC. 
Mes.  B.'s  Cookies.  »J« 
6  e^a,  whites  and  yolks  separately. 
1  cup  butter. 
3  cups  sugar. 
Flour  to  make  batter  j'jtsi  stifi'  enough  to  be  mould-jd 
with  well-floured  hands. 
Flavor  with  lemon. 
Make  into  round  cakes  and  bake  in  a  quick  oren. 

Small  Susab  Cakes. 

1  heaping  teacup  of  sugar. 
J  teacup  of  butter. 

J  teacup  sweet  Tiiilk, 

2  eggs,  well  oeaten. 


.dhyGoogle 


cooKEBB,  Era  33fl 

2  teaspoonfula  cream-tartar. 

1  "  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Flour  sufficient  to  enable  you  to  roll  OTtt  the  dough. 

1  fialtsjioonful  salt. 

Nutmeg  and  oimiamon  to  taste. 

Cut  into  round  caies  and  bake  quickly. 

Nkw  Year's  Cakes,  {  Very  nice.)  A, 
1  j-  lb.  sugar. 

1  lb.  butter. 

i  pint  cold  water. 

2  eggs. 

3J  Iba.  flour, 

1  teaspoouful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
4  tablespoonfuJs  caraway  seed  sprinkled  through    tha 
flour. 

Rub  the  butter,  or,  what  ia  better,  chop  it  up  in  the 
flour  J  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water;  mix  ali  well  with 
the  beaten  eggs,  cut  in  square  cakes,  or  with  an  oval  mould, 
and  bake  quickly. 

"Motheb's"  Cookies, 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar,  • 

3  eggs,  well  beaten, 

i  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1  "  nutmeg. 

i  "  cloves. 

Flour  to  make  soft  dough,  just  stiff  enough  to  roD  out, 
Try  two  cups  to  begin  with,  working  it  in  gradually.  Cul 
in  round  cakes,  stick  a  raisin  or  currant  in  the  top  of  each, 
itnd  bake  quickly. 


.dhyGoogle 


CoRiAiTDER  Cookies.  «J« 
1  cup  butter. 

3  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  "  loppered  "  milk  or  creaju. 

4  eggs, 

7  cups  flour,  or  just  enough  to  stiffen  into  a.roUahle'paaU 
3  tabiespooufuls  coriander  seed  (ground  or  beaten). 
1  "  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

If  you  use  sweet  milk,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  cream- 
tartar,      Tou  may  substitute  caraway  for  the  coriandei 

Eice-Flouil  Cookies. 
^  lb.  ground  rice. 
^  "    flour,  dried  and  sifted, 
1  "    powdered  sugar. 
J  "    butter. 
4e^s. 

Juice  an.d  half  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon. 
1  tablespoonful  orange-flower  water. 

Beat  yolks  and  whitoa  very  light ;  then  put  the  bugat 
with  the  yolks.  Beat  ten  minutes,  add  the  orange-flower 
water  and  lemon ;  lastly,  the  flour  and  whites  alternately. 
Beat  the  mixture  half  an  hour.  Bake  immediately  in  patty- 
pans.    Eat  while  fresh. 

Molasses  Cookies.  {Good.) 
1  cup  butter. 


1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
1  tablespoonful  gingfei. 

our  to  make  stilT  halter,  net  dougl 


.dhyGoogle 


OOOKIEB,    ETC.  337 

with  the  hands  into  small  cakes,  and  bako  in  a  steady  rather 
than  quick  oven,  as  thoy  are  apt  to  burn. 

GingeK'Snaps  {2^o.  1). 
1  cup  butter. 


FloDi 


3    "    Bweet  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  saleratua, 

2  "  ginger. 
ir  for  tolerably  stiff  dough, 

GISQER-SSAPS   (JVo.  2).  4i 
1  large  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed. 
1  coffee-cup  sugar, 
1  cup  molasses. 
i    "    water. 
I  tahlespoonful  ginger. 
1  "  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  "  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Fiour  for  pretty  stiff  dough. 
Roll  out  rather  thinner  than  sugar  cakes,  and  bake 
qnickly.     These  ginger-snaps  will  keep  for  i^-eeks,  if  locUd 

GmoER-SsAPs  {Wo.  3). 
1  pint  molasses, 
I  teacup  sugar. 
I  tahlespoonful  ginger. 
1  "  allspice. 

1  citp  butter, 
6  cups  flour. 
Boll  thin  and  cut  into  small  cakes.     Bake  in  quick  ovan. 


16 


.dhyGoogle 


AOHT   MaeOAKET's  JuitBLKB. 

1  cup  butter, 

2  cups  sugar. 
1  teacup  milk. 
5  egga. 

1  t^aspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1  "  nutmeg. 

Sufficient  flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Boll  out,  cut  into 
shapes,  and  sift  sugar  over  them  before  they  go  into  the 
oven. 

Lemon  Jumbles. 

1  egg. 

1  teacupful  sugar. 

\         "         butter. 

3  teaspoonfuls  milk, 

1  "  cream-tartar, 

2  small  lemons,  juice  of  two  and  grated  rind  of  one. 
Mix  rather  stiff.     Roll  and  cut  out  with  a  cake-cutter. 

BiKo  Jumbles. 

1  lb.  butter. 

1  "  sugar. 

4  eggs. 

\\  lb.  flour,  or  enough  to  make  out  &  soft  dough. 

Wineglass  (small)  rose-water. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then 
the  rose-water,  next  half  the  flour,  lastly  the  whites,  stirred 
in  very  lightly,  alternately  with  the  remaining  flour.  Have 
ready  a  pan,  broad  and  shallow,  lined  on  the  bottom  with 
battered  paper.     With  a  tablespoon  form  regular  ring*  of 


;dhyGoogle 


JTJMBLE8,   CAKB8,    BTO.  ;;J9 

^e  dough  apon  tlJs,  leaving  a  hole  in  the  centre  of  each. 

^Zr         ^^  '^*  ^°'  "'^'  "*""'  *''""  ""  '''°'^  ^  ^l^^J 

You  nmj  substitute  lemoa  or  yauiUa  for  the  rose-water 

Mrs.  M.'a  Joueles, 
1  cup  Bugar, 
1    "    butter. 
i    "    sour  cream. 
1  egg. 

1  teaapoonful  soda,  dissolved  ia  hot  water. 
Nutmeg  to  taste. 

Eftk?"iii  rings,  as  directed  in  previous  receipt. 

Almond  Jumbles. 
1  lb.  sugar. 

J  "   butter. 

1  teacup  "loppered"  milk. 
5  eggs. 

2  tablespooafuls  rose-water. 

Jib.  ahnouds,  blanched  and  chopped  Bmall,  but  not 

pounded, 
1  toaspoooful  soda  dasolved  in  boilmg  »,(,,. 

nalk,  tL.  Jo„,  „d  the  „^,,u>r,  th.  >,„„d.,  Ltl,'  .h„ 
b«ali,n  whtBS  very  l^htlj.  „d  quioklj.     D„p  ^  ,;„„, 
round  oie.  upon  butterrf  p.per,  „d  bdio  imn.di.toly 

You  may  suMlnt.  grated  coco.nul,  or  th.  ehopped 
kernel,  of  ,Lrte  waluute,  for  ft,  ato„„da,  i„  ,liol  L 
Bill  a  little  saJt. 


.dhyGoogle 


340  COMMON   BBarSE. 

CuEBANT  Cakes. 
1  11.  flour. 
^  "   butter. 
J  ''   sugar, 
4  eggs. 

J  lb.  currants,  -well  ■rra.sbsd  and  dredged. 
\  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
J  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice, 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
Drjpfroma  spoon  upoa  -well-buttered  paper,  limiig  • 
bftliing-pan.     Bake  quicklj. 

Drop  Spongei-cakes. 
^  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

4  eggs — yolks  and  whites  separate,  and  beaten  very 

stiff. 
1  lemon — all  tbe  juice,  and  Lalf  the  grated  rind. 
Drop  upon  buttered  paper,  not  too  near  together.     Try 
one,  and  if  it  runs,  beat  the  mixture  some  minutes  longer 
hard,  adding  a  very  little  flour.     Your  oven  should  be  very 
quick,  and  the  cakes  a  delicate  yellow  brown. 

Lady's  Fingeks 
Are  mixed  like  drop  sponge-cakes,  but  disposed  upon  the 
paper  in  long,  narrow  cakes.     They  are  very  nice  dipped 
in  cliocolate  icing,  or  caramel. 

Aunt  Margaret's  Crullers.  •$• 

1  lb.  butter. 

IJ  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

12  eggs. 

Mace  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Flou-T  to  roll  out  stiff. 


.dhyGoogle 


OEUILEKS.  341 

Tliia  is  ftir  a  large  quantity  of  crullers.  Roll  out  in  a 
Hiin  sheet,  cut  into  shapes  with  a  jagging-iron,  and  try  in 
plenty  of  boiling  lai-d.  Test  the  heat  first  by  dropping  iii 
one.  It  should  rise  almost  instantly  to  the  surface.  CpuI 
lei-s  and  doughnuts  soak  in  fat  at  tho  bottom  of  tlie  kettle 
These  should  be  a  fine  yellow. 

The  most  delicious  and  the  nicest-looking  crullera  I 
have  ever  seen  were  made  by  the  dear  old  lady  from  whom 
I  had  this  receipt.  They  were  as  pretty  and  piyfect  a 
picture  of  their  kind  as  she  was  of  hers. 

Crullers  are  bet1«r  the  second  day  than  the  first.  If 
the  iat  becomes  so  hot  that  the  ciullers  brown  before  tliej 
pufi'  out  to  their  full  dimensions,  take  the  kettle  fmm  tha 
fire  for  a  few  minutes.  Have  enough  cut  out  before  you 
begin  to  fry  them,  to  keep  a  good  supply  all  tlte  while  on 
the  fire.  If  you  undertake  the  task  aiouBj  cut  out  all  be- 
fore cooking  one. 

Katie's  Cedllees. 
1  lb.  sugar. 
J  "   butter. 

1  tablespoonfiil  sweet  milk. 
1  small  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  nutmeg. 
Sufficient  flour  to  roll  out  stiffi 

"Mother's"  Ceullebs. 
1^  teacup  sugar. 
I  teacup  sour  cream  or  milk, 
^      "       butter, 
legg. 

1  small  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  iraf«r. 
Flour  to  roll  out  a  tolerably  stiff  paste. 


.dhyGoogle 


COIitMON   SENSE. 


Ashie's  Ckullebs. 


2  cupa  sugar. 

1  cup  butter 

2  eggs. 

2  caps  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolyed  ia  hot  w»t«r. 

Flour  'o  roll  out  tolerably  stiff. 

ElSEN   DOUGHUUTS. 

1  lb.  butter. 

1|  lb.  sugar. 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

iegga. 

1  large  cup  yeaat. 

1  tablespoonfal  mace  or  nutmeg. 


Flour  to  make  all  stiff  as  bread-dougb. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  nulk,  yeast,  and  one 
quart  and  a  pint  of  flour.  Set  to  rise  over  night.  In  the 
morning  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  into  the  batter 
with  the  sjjico  and  rest  of  the  flour.  Set  to  rise  three  hours, 
or  until  light;  roll  into  a  pretty  thick  sheet,  cut  out,  and 
fiy  ill  boiling  lard.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them  wldlt 
hot 

Quick  Douqhnots. 
1  cup  butter. 

3  cups  sugar. 

4  eggs. 

1  cup  Bour  milk  or  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 


.dhyGoogle 


OETTLLEES,    noUOHNCTe,   ETO, 

1  teaspoonftil  nutmeg. 

Flour  to  roll  out  iii  pi-ctty  soft  dough. 
Out  into  shapes,  and  fry  in  hot  Jard. 

Son  GlKOEltBItEAD.  1^ 

cup  butter. 


"     sour  or  buttermilk, 
teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
tableapoonful  ginger, 
teaspoonful  cianamon. 
■J,  eggs. 

About  five  cups  of  flour— enough  to  make  it  thick  m 
cin-cake  batter,  perhaps  a  trifle  thicker.  Work  in  four 
cups  first,  and  add  very  cautiously. 

Stir  butter,  sugar,  molasses,  aud  spice  together  to  a 
light  cream,  set  them  on  the  range  until  slightly  .rarm; 
beat  the  eggs  light;  add  the  milt  to  the  ^rraed  mixture, 
tiien  the  eggs,  the  soda,  and  lastly  the  flour.  Beat  very 
Imrd  ten  mimites,  and  bake  at  once  in  a  loaf,  or  in  small 
tius.  Half  a  pouud  raisins,  seeded  aad  cut  in  half,  wiU 
improve  tliis  excellent  gingerbread.  Dredge  them  well 
before  putting  the:ii  in.     Add  them  at  tKe  last. 

Sponge  Gixgerbheajj  {egglem).^ 
6  cups  flour. 

1  heaping  tahlespoouful  butter. 
1  cup  mola*.  PS 
1  s  gar 

1  milk  (sour  is  best). 

2  teasx  oonf  ds  saleratus,  not  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water 


.dhyGoogle 


OOIOIQN    SENSE. 


2  teaspoonfula  ginger, 
1  "  ciimamon. 


Mix  tlie  molasses,  sugar,  butter,  and  apice  togetttrj 
warm  them  slightly,  and  beat  iintil  they  are  lighter  in  col- 
or by  many  degrees  than  when  you  began.  Add  th<!  mili, 
then  the  soda,  and  having  mixed  all  well,  put  in  the  flour. 
Beat  very  hard  five  minutes,  and  bake  in  a  broad,  shallow 
pan,  or  iu  ^d(e-tins.  Half  a  pound  of  seeded  raisins  cut 
in  pieces  will  be  a  pleasant  addition. 

Try  this  gingerbread  warm  for  tea  or  luncheon,  with 
a  cup  of  hot  chocolate  to  accompany  it,  and  you  will  soon 
repeat  tlie  experiment. 

Plain  Gingerbhead. 


i     «      lard. 

^    "      butter. 

2  teaspoonfuls  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tablespoonfids  gingi-r. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

Thicken  with  flour  to  a  soft  dough. 
Warm  the  molasses,  lard,  butter,  ajid  ginger,  and  beat 
them  ten  minutes  before  adding  the  milk,  soda,  and  flour. 
Eoll  out,  cut  into  shapes,  and  bake  in  a  quick,  cut  not 
too  hot  oven.  Keep  in  a  tight  thi  box.  Brush  ctcei  with 
white  of  egg  wliile  hut. 

Gingerbread  Loap  (No,  1). 
1  cup  butter. 


1    "    sugar. 

^   "  cold  water. 


.dhyGoogle 


GDJGEEBBEAD,  845 

1  teaspooiiful  cinnamon. 

1  "  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  Trater. 

Flour  to  make  stiff  batter. 
Melt  the  butter,  slightly  warm  the  molasses,  apice,  and 
sugar,  and  beat  togetber  ten  minutes.  Then  put  in  the 
■water,  soda,  and  flour.  Stir  very  hard,  and  bake  in  Ihroa 
small  loaves.  Brush  them  over  with  syrup  while  hot,  and 
eat  fresh. 

Loaf  Gikgehbeead  (No  2). 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  molasses. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger, 

2  eggs,  vei-y  well  beaten. 
1  teas|)ooiiful  saieratus. 

I  Clip  milk,  sweet  or  sour.     If  sour,  heap  you*-  spoen 
with  aaleratus. 

riour  to  the  consistency  of  iiound-cake. 

Spiced  Gikgerbheaj), 


^  "    butter. 

4"  teaspoonful  soda  d 

1  "  cream-tartar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  sweet  milk. 

1  large  tablcspoonfn!  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  doves. 

1  "  nutmeg. 

1  "  cinnamon. 

Ci'eam  the  sugar  and  butter,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks, 
the  milk  and  spice,  the  soda,  and  when  these  are  well  mixed, 
thi  flo\ir.      Bake'  in  tvo  squai-e  or  round  loaves. 


.dhyGoogle 


OOUHON   SBHSS. 


SUOAU   OlNOEBBKKAn 


1  Clip  of  butter. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

1  cup  sour  cream  or  milk. 

3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hob  water, 

2  tablespooufuls  ginger. 
1  t«aspooiifu]  ciunamon. 

5J  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to  roll  out  soft.  Cat  ix 
gliapes,  bnisli  over  with  white  of  egg  while  hot,  and  bake. 

Ekeax>  Cake. 
Oa  baking-day,  take  from  your  dough,  after  its  second 
rising — 2  cups  risen  dough.     Have  ready,  also — 
3  cups  white  sugar. 
1  cup  butter,  creamed  with  the  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tablespooufuls  sweet  milk — cream  is  bett«r. 
J  lb.  currants,  well  washed  and  dredged. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

1  "  cloves. 

Beat  the  yolks  very  light,  add  the  creamed  butter  aad 
B  igar,  the  spice,  milk,  soda,  and  dough.  Stir  until  all  ate 
well  mixed ;  put  in  the  beaten  whites,  lastly  the  fruit. 
Beat  hard  five  minutes,  let  it  rise  twenty  minutes  in  two 
well-liuttered  pans,  and  bake  half  an  hour  or  untU  done. 


Fkuit  Gingerbkeab. 


2  lis.  flour. 
I  "  butter. 
1  "    sugar. 


.dhyGoogle 


1  lb.  raisins,  seeded  and  cliopped. 
1  "    currants,  ■well  washed. 


J  cup  sour  cream. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  Boda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tableapoon&la  ginger, 
1  teaspoonful  cinnaiaon. 
1  "  cloves. 

(iieam  the  butter  and  sugar,  warm  the  molasses  slightly, 
and  beat  these  together ;  then  the  beaten  yolks,  next  the 
milk  and  apice,  the  soda,  the  flour  and  whites,  well  whip- 
ped ;  lastly  the  fruit,  which  must  be  thickly  dredged.  Beat 
well  before  baking. 

A  little  citron,  shred  fine,  is  an  improvement.  Bake  in 
two  broad  pans,  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  cake  wiil  keep 
a  long  time. 

Sweet  Wafebs. 


1  pint  flour. 

2  oz.  melted  butter. 

1^  cup  powdered  sugar. 

1  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately  and  very  stiff,  rub  the 
sugar  and  butter  together,  and  work  in  first  the  yolks,  then 
tlie  milk,  then  the  flour  and  whites.  Bake  in  well-but- 
tered wafer  or  wafRe  irons,  very  quickly,  browning  as  little 
as  possible.  Roll  them  while  hot  upon  a  smooth,  rount, 
stick,  not  lai^er  than  your  little  finger,  slipping  it  out  care- 
fully when  the  cake  takes  the  right  shape. 

These  httle  cakes  are  an  acceptable  addition  to  anj 


.dhyGoogle 


MS  COMMON   BEKSE. 

tea  or  supper  table,  and  look  \rell  among  fancy  cakes  in  a 
basket. 

Boston  Cheam  Cakes.  >{• 
i  lb.  butter. 

8  eggs. 
I  pint  water. 
Stir  the  butter  into  tke  water,  wliicli  shoijld  be  warm, 
set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan,  and  slowly  bring  to  a  boil, 
Btirring  it  often.     When  it  boils,  put  in  the  flour,  boil  one 
minute,  stirring  all  the  while ;  take  from  tho  flro,  turn  into 
a  deep  dish,  and  let  it  cool.     Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and 
whip  into  this  cooled  paste,  first  the  yolks,  then  the  whites. 
Diop,  in  great  spoonfuls,  upon  buttered  paper,  taking 
care  not  to  let  them  toiich  or  run  into  each  other,  and  bake 
ten  minutes, 

Qream  fw  JUling. 

1  quart  milk. 

4  tahlespoonfuls  oom-sterch. 

2  eggs 

2  cup?  sugar 
Wet  the  com  st'in.h  with  enough  milk  to  work  it  intc 
a  smooth  paste  Boil  the  rest  of  the  milk.  Beat  the  eggs, 
add  the  8ugT.r  md  corn  starch  to  these,  and  so  soon  as  the 
milk  boils  pour  m  the  mLxture  graduaOy,  stirring  all  the 
time  until  'mooth  and  thick  DrO]i  in  a  t«aspoonful  of  but- 
ter, and  when  this  is  mixed  m,  set  the  custard  aside  to  cool. 
Then  aid  vanilU  or  lemon  seasoning;  pass  a  sharp  knife 
lightly  -iround  the  puff'i,  '.pht  tiiem,  and  fill  with  the  mix 

The  best  creim  cakes  I  have  ever  tasted  were  maile  I;j 
this  somewhat  odd  receipt. 
Try  It 


.dhyGoogle 


Nougat, 

1  lb.  s-weet  almonds. 

j  "    fine  white  sugar. 

I  tabhspoonfal  rose-water, 
EfancL  the  almonds  in  boiling  water.  Wiea  stripped 
of  thfjjr  skins,  throw  them  into  ice-water  for  ilve  minutes. 
Take  them  out  and  dry  between  two  cloths.  SKave  with 
a  small  knife  into  thin  slips.  Put  them  into  a  slow  oven 
until  they  are  lyery  sliglitly  colored.  Meanwhile,  melt  the 
sugar — without  adding  tuater—in  a  porcelain  kettle  over 
the  fire,  stirring  it  all  the  while  to  keep  it  from  buriiiiig. 
When  it  bubbles  tip  and  is  quite  melted  take  off  the  kettle 
and  instantly  stir  in  tlie  hot  almonds.  Have  ready  a  tin 
pan  or  mould,  well  buttered  and  slightly  farmed.  Pour 
in  the  nougat ;  press  it  thin  and  flat  to  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  if  you  mean  to  cut  it  into  sti-ips ;  to  all  sides  of  tha 
mould  if  you  intend  to  fill  it  with  syllabub  or  macaroons. 
Let  it  cool  in  the  mould,  for  the  latter  puqjose,  withdraw- 
ing it  carefully  whea  you  want  it.  If  you  cut  it  up,  do  it 
while  it  ia  still  warm— not  hot. 

The  synip  should  be  a  bright   yellow  before  putting  in 
the  almonds. 


TIES. 


Use  none  but  the  best  butter  in  pastry, 

"  Cooking  butter  is  a  good  tiling,"  said  a  grave  epicure 
to  me  once,  "  an  admirable  tiling — in  its  place,  which  is  in 
the  soiip-fiit  kettle  or  upon  wagon-wheels !  " 

It  is  certiiinly  out  of  place  in  biscuite,  cake,  or  in  any 
Bubstance  destined  for  human  palates  and  stomachs.  It  ia 
never  less  in  place  than  in  pastry ;  never  betriys  its  vLJe- 
uesa  more  auicly  and  odiously. 


.dhyGoogle 


350  COMMON    SENSE. 

Butter  intended  for  pastry  shoidd  l>e  washed  carofuTlj 
in  seveitil  clear,  cold  waters,  and  kneaded  while  nndet 
water,  to  e  xtract  the  salt.  Then  wipe  it  diy,  and  lay  it  in  a 
cold  place  xntU  you  are  ready  to  work  it  in 

"  Keep  cool,"  is  a  cardinal  motto  for  pastry-makers. 
A  marble  slab  is  a  good  thing  to  roll  out  paste  upon.  Kext 
to  this,  the  hest  article  is  a  clean  board  of  hard  wood,  which 
ia  never  used  for  any  other  purpose.  It  is  harder  to  mats 
good  pastry  in  warm  weather  than  cold,  on  account  of  tha 
tendency  of  the  butter  to  oil,  and  thus  render  tlie  crust 
heavy  and  solid. 

Few  people  know  what  really  good  pastry  is.  Fewer 
still  can  make  it.  It  has  no  inevitable  resemblance  either 
to  putty  or  leather.  It  m  light,  crisp,  flaky,  goodly  to  be- 
hold—goodlier to  the  taste. 

"  Pork  fat  and  pies  kill  more  people  yearly  ia  the 
United  States  than  do  liquor  and  tobacco,"  said  a  popular 
lecturer  upon  conservatism. 

Perhaps  bo  ;  but  I  incline  to  the  belief  that  bad  pastry 
ia  answerable  for  a  vast  majority  of  the  murders.  Not  that 
[  recommend  pies  of  any  description  as  healthful  daily  food 
■  —least  of  all  for  childi«n.  But  since  they  are  eaten  freely 
all  over  our  land,  let  us  make  them  as  wholesome  and  pa- 
latable as  possible. 

Family  Pie-Crust  (No.  I),  ■{• 
1  quart  flour. 
J  lb.  lard,  sweet  and  firm, 
J  "    butter, 
1  small  teacup  ice-water. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  deep  wooden  bowl.  With  a  broad- 
bladed  knife,  or  a  small  keen  "  chopper,"  cut  np  the  lard 
into  the  flour  until  it  is  fine  as  dust.     Wet   witli    ice 


.dhyGoogle 


PIE8.  36i 

water  into  a  stiff  dough,  working  it  with  a  wooden  Bpoon 
until  obliged  to  make  it  into  a  roll  or  ball  with  your  hands. 
Flour  these,  and  knead  tlio  paste  into  shape  with  as  few 
strokes  as  wiU  effect  your  end.  Lay  the  lump  upon  a 
floumi  kneading-board  and  roU  it  out  iuto  a  thin  slieet, 
always  rolling  from  you  with  quick,  light  action.  When 
thin  enough,  stick  bits  of  butter  in  regular  Jose  rows  all 
over  the  sheet,  using  a  knife  for  this  purpose  rather  than 
your  hands.  Eoll  up  the  paste  into  close  folds  as  you 
would  a  sheet  of  music.  Flatten  it  that  your  rolliiKT-pin 
can  take  hold,  and  roll  out  again  as  thin  as  before.  Blste, 
roll  up  and  then  out,  until  yoiir  butter  is  gone.  It  is  a 
good  i)Ian  to  sprinkle  the  inside  of  each  sheet  with  a  littlti 
flour  after  buttering  it,  before  making  it  iuto  a  roll.  Tiually, 
make  out  your  crust ;  butter  your  pie-plates,  lay  the  paste 
Hglitly  within  them,  cut  it  off  evenly  about  iiie  edges  after 
fitting  it  neatly ;  gather  up  the  scraps  left  from  cutting, 
and  make  into  auother  sheet.  If  the  pies  are  to  have  a 
top  crust,  fill  the  plates  with  fruit  or  whatever  you  have 
ready,  lay  the  paat«  on  this,  cut  it  to  fit,  and  press  down 
the  edges  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  juice,  with  a  spooa, 
knife,  or  jagging-iron,  ornamenting  it  in  a  regular  figure. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  light  browa.  Be 
particularly  careful  to  have  yonr  heat  as  great  at  the 
bottom  as  at  the  top,  or  the  lower  crust  wiU  be  clammT 
and  raw. 

Pastry  is  always  best  when  fresh. 

It  is  well,  when  you  can  spare  the  time,  to  lay  the  roll, 
when  all  tlie  butter  ia  iised  up,  in  a  very  cold  pkce  for  fif! 
teen  minutes  or  so  before  rolling  it  into  crust.  Indeed, 
eome  good  housemves  let  it  stand  on  the  ice  an  hour  in  hot 
weather.  They  say  it  tends  to  make  it  flaky  as  well  as  fii-m. 
Touch  as  little  with  your  hards  as  may  be  practit^blo. 


.dhyGoogle 


oa-5  COMMON    SENSE. 

Family  Pie-Crust  (JVo.  2).  •{• 

1  lb.  flour, 
f  "  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspooafula  cream-tartar, 
ice-water  to  make  into  a  stiff  dough. 

Chap  half  tlie  butter  into  the  flour  until  it  looks  lika 
yellow  sand  (sift  the  soda  and  cream-tartar  with  the  flour, 
passing  it  through  the  sieve  twice  to  make  sure  it  is  well 
mixed) ;  work  with  ice-water  into  stifl"  dough  ;  roll  into  a 
thin  sheet,  baste  with  one-thii'd  the  remaining  butter,  fold 
up  closely  into  a  long  roll,  flatten  and  re-roll,  then  baste 
again.  Kejieat  this  operation  throe  times,  until  the  butter 
is  gone,  when  make  out  your  crust. 

This  is  an  easy  and  sure  receipt,  and  the  paste  very 

Fkhkcii  Puff-Paste.  •{• 

1  lb.  fiour. 

f  "  butter. 

1  egg ;  use  the  yolk  only. 

Ice-water. 

Chop  half  the  butter  into  the  flour ;  stir  the  beat«n  ^g 
into  half  a  cup  ice-water,  and  work  the  flour  into  a  stiff 
dough ;  roll  out  thin,  baste  with  one-third  the  remaining  but- 
ter, fold  closely,  roll  out  again,  and  bo  on  until' the  butter  ia 
used  up.  Roll  very  thin,  and  set  the  last  folded  roll  in  a 
very  cold  place  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  making  out 
the  crust.  Wash  witli  beaten  egg  while  hot.  I'hia  paste  i« 
very  nice  for  oyst^r-pdCee  as  well  as  for  fruit-pies. 


.dhyGoogle 


PurF-PAaTE. 

1  pint  flour. 

}  lb,  butter. 

^  "^SSi  ^ell  beaten.     Ubo  the  yolk  only. 

1  gill  ice-water. 
Mix  the  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  beaten  e^ 
and  ice-Tva,ter  into  a  paste  with  a  -wooden  apoon.  Floui 
your  pastrj--boar<:l,  and  roll  out  the  crust  very  thin.  Put 
the  rest  of  the  butter,  when  you  have  washed  it,  in  the 
centre  of  this  sheet,  in  a  flat  cake.  Turn  the  four  comoi-a 
of  the  paste  over  it,  and  roll  out  carefully,  not  to  break  the 
paste.  Should  it  give  way,  flour  the  spot,  that  it  may  not 
stick  to  the  roller.  When  very  thin,  si>rinkle  lightly  with 
flour,  fold  up,  and  roll  out  four  times  more.  Set  in  a  cool 
place  for  an  hour,  roll  out  again,  and  cut  into  tai'tlet-shells 
or  top  crust  for  piea. 

The  bottom  crust  of  pios  mny  oflen  be  made  of  plainei 
pastry  than  the  upper. 

Thansparent  Crust.    {  Vhy  rich.) 

1  lb.  flour. 

1    "  butter. 

1  e^ — the  yolk  only. 
Wabh  the  butter,  dry,  and  then  melt  it  in  a  vessel  get 
in  another  of  boiling  water,  stirring  gently  all  the  while  to 
prevent  oiling.  Take  off  the  salty  scum  from  the  top,  and 
when  almost  cold  beat  up  the  butter  little  by  Uttle  ivith  the 
e^,  which  should  be  previously  whipped  light.  When 
dicse  are  thoroughly  incorporated  work  in  the  flour,  roll 
out  twice,  spiinkling  lightly  -n-ith  flour  befoie  you  fold  it 
up ;  let  it  stand  folded  five  minutes  in  a  cold  place,  and 
make  out  for  tartlets  or  pOles.  It  is  not  suitable  for  large 
pies.  Bake  before  you  fiU  tliom,  aad  brush  over  with  a 
beaten  egg  while  hot. 


.dhyGoogle 


854  COMMON   SENSE. 

Mince  Pies  {Ro.  I). 
4  lbs.  meat — i.  e.,  two-thirds  apple,  one-third  meat. 
3    "    raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

2  "    currants,  washed,  picked  over,  and  dried. 

3  quarts  cider. 
1  pint  brandy. 

1  heaping  tahlespoonful  cinnamon, 

1  "  "  nutmeg. 

The  same  of  cloves,  and  half  the  quantity  of  mace. 
Make  very  Bweet  with  brown  Bugji. 
The  meat  should  be  a  good  piece  of  le-an  beef,  boiled 
Ehe  day  before  it  is  needed.  Half  a  pound  of  law  auet, 
chopped  fine,  may  be  added.  Chop  the  meat,  clean  out 
bits  of  skin  and  gristle,  and  ""'t^  with  twice  the  quantity 
of  fine  juicy  apples,  also  chopped ;  then  put  in  the  fruit, 
next  the  sugar  and  apice,  lastly  the  liquor.  Mix  very  thor- 
oughly, cover  closely,  and  let  all  stand  together  for  twenty- 
four  hours  before  making  the  pies. 

MiKCB  Pies  (iVo.  2).  »}• 

2  lbs.  lean  fresh  beef,  boiled,  and  when  cold,  chopped 

1  lb.  beef-suet,  cleared  of  strings  and  minced  to  powder. 
6  lbs.  apples,  pared  and  chopped, 

2  "     raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  lb.  sultana  laisins,  washed  and  picked  over. 

2  lbs.  currants,  washed  and  carefully  picked  0V2r. 

4  lb.  citron,  cut  up  fine, 

3  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon. 

1  powdered  nutmeg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  mace, 
1  tablespoonfu!  cloves. 

I  "  flilspice. 


.dhyGoogle 


1  tablespoonful  fine  salt. 
2^  1T)S.  brown  sugar. 
I  quart  brown  shony. 
1  pint  best  brandy. 

Mince-meat  made  by  this  receipt  will  keep  all  wmtet  in 
a  cool  place.  Keep  in  stone  jars,  tied  over  with  double 
ccvers.  Add  a  litde  more  liquor  {if  it  should  dry  ont), 
when  you  make  np  a  batch  of  pies.  Let  the  mixture  stand 
at  least  twenty-four  hours  after  it  is  made  before  It  is  used. 
Lay  strips  of  pastry,  notched  with  a  jagging-iron,  in  a 
cross-bar  pattern,  upon  the  pie,  instead  of  a  top-cmst. 

I  take  this  opportunity  of  warning  the  innocent  reader 
against  placing  any  confidence  whatever  in  dried  currants. 
1  years  ago  gave  over  trying  to  guess  who  put  the  dirt  in 
them.  It  is  always  there !  gravel-stones  lurking  under  a 
specious  coating  of  curranty-looking  paste,  to  crucify  grown 
people's  nerves  and  children's  teeth;  mould  that  changes 
to  mud  in  the  mouth ;  twigs  that  prick  the  throat,  not  to 
mention  the  legs,  wings,  and  bodit^  of  tropica!  insects— a 
curious  study  to  one  interested  in  the  entomology  of  Zantc. 
It  is  all  dirt !  although  sold  to  us  at  cun-ant  prices. 

Wash  your  currants,  therefore,  first  in  warm  water, 
rolling  up  yoiir  sleeves,  and  rubbing  the  conglomerate 
masses  apart,  as  you  would  scrub  a  muddy  garment.  Drain 
them  in  a  cullender,  and  pass  them  thimigh  thi-ee  more 
watei-s— cold  now,  but  cleansing.  Then  spread  them  upon 
a  lai-ge  dish,  and  enter  seriously  uj^n  your  geological  ant! 
entomological  researches.  "  Sultanas  "—sweet  and  seed- 
less—ai-e  nearly  as  troublesome,  but  then-  specialty  is  more 
hfti-ralesa,  being  stickiness  and  stems. 

Neveitheless,  since  Jolm  has  a  weakness  for  miuce-pies 
(1  never  saw  an  un-<Iy3peptic  man  who  had  not),  it  is  worth 
your  whUe  to  make  them,  having  tliis  consolation,  that  if 


.dhyGoogle 


S56  COMMON  8ENBE. 

you  are  wise  yon  need  not  engage  in  the  mamifaeture  of 
tener  tLan  once,  or  at  most,  twice  a  winter.  But  let  Ilia 
children  taste  them  sjiai'ingly,  and  never  at  night,  if  jou 
value  their  health  and  your  own  sound  slumbers. 

Apple  Mince-Meat. 
2  lbs,  applcs^pared  and  chopped. 
J  lb.  beef  suet — cleared  of  strings  and  powdered. 
1  "    currants, 

J  "    raisins,  seeded  and  chopped, 
J-  "    sultana  raisins. 
J-  "    citron,  cut  into  shreds. 
1  lemon — jiiice  and  gi-ated  rind. 
1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
1  "  mace. 

1  tablespoonful  aOspice. 

2  lbs.  brown  sugar. 
Half-pint  best  brandy. 
■A  glass  of  wine. 

3  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

Paolt  down  in  a  stone  jar,  with  close  cover,  and  keej  u 
■  cool  place. 

MoL-K  Mikce-Meat.  ■{• 
6  soda  crackers — rolled  fine. 
2  cupa  cold  water, 
1  Clip  molasses. 
1    "    brown  sugar. 

1^  cup  mtlted  butter. 

1  cup  roiiins — seeded  and  chopped. 

1    "    currants 


.dhyGoogle 


PUS.  887 

2  eggs— beaten  light, 
tablespoonful  cimiamon  and  allsijice  mited. 
teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
"  cloves. 

"  blatk  pepper. 

1  wineglass  of  brandy. 

"  Mince-pie  in  summer  is  a  pleasant  rarity,"  was  the 
ii!mai-k  of  a  party  of  hangvy  travellers,  in  senii-aijology  for 
Uie  fact  that  every  plate  made  a  retni-n  joui-noy  to  thn 
comely  landlady,  who  was  dispensing  generous  triangles  of 
pie.  She  snuled  gratifiedly,  but  said  nothing  in  reply,  un- 
til,  when  the  gentlemea  had  sti-olled  off  to  the  woods  with 
their  cigars,  she  came  upon  me,  seated  alone  on  &.g  i>iazza, 
find  grew  confidential  under  the  influence  of  that  sort  of 
free-masonic  underetajiding  housekeepers  have  with  one 
another,  almost  at  sight, 

"  I  had  to  laugh,"  said  the  good  sou!,  "  when  they 
praised  my  mince-pies.  They're  healthfuller  ia  summer- 
time than  the  real  thing." 

I  took  down  the  receipt  on  the  spot  from  her  lips.  I£ 
any  one  doubts  the  merits  of  the  counterfeit,  let  her  do  as  I 
did — trv  it. 

Apple  Pie  {No.  1).  »J. 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  ripe,  tart  winter  apples— Pippins, 
Greenings,  or  Baldwins — line  your  dish  with  a  good  crust 
put  in  a  layer  of  fruit,  then  sprinkle  light-brown  sugar 
tliickly  over  it,  scatter  half  a  dozen  whole  cloves  upon  thia 
lay  on  more  apples,  and  so  on,  until  the  disli  is  well  filled! 
Cover  with  crust  and  bake.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  thfl 
top  before  sending  to  table. 


.dhyGoogle 


8s8  ccmmox  sense. 

Apple  Pie  {No.  2).  4" 

Stew  greon  or  ripe  apples  when,  you  have  paied  and 
cored  tliem.  Mash  to  a  smootli  compote,  sweeten  to  tasto, 
and,  while  hot,  stir  in  a  tuaspoonful  butter  for  each  pie. 
Season  with  nutmeg,  WTien  cool,  fill  yonr  crust,  and 
either  cross-bar  the  top  Wtli  strips  of  paste,  or  bake  with 
out  cover. 

Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  strewed  over  it. 

Apple  Custard  Pie.  r^ 
3  cups  stewed  apple. 
Nearly  a  cup  white  sugar, 
6  eggs. 
1  quart  tnilTc, 

Make  the  stewed  apple  very  sweet,  and  let  it  cool.  Beat 
the  eggs  light,  and  mix  the  yolks  well  irith  the  apple,  sea- 
soning with  nutmeg  only.  Then  stir  in  gradually  the  milk, 
beating  as  you  go  on ;  lastly  add  the  whites ;  fill  your  crust 
and  bake  without  cover. 

Apple  MSrikgite  Pies,  tji 
Stew  and  sweeten  ripe,  juicy  apples,  when  you  have 
pared  and  sliced  them.  Mash  smooth,  and  season  with 
nutmeg.  If  yon  like  the  flavor,  stew  some  lemon-peel  with  . 
the  apple,  and  remove  when  cold.  Fill  your  crust,  and 
bake  until  just  done.  Spread  over  the  apple  a  thick 
meringue,  made  by  whipping  to  a  stiff  froth  the  wldtes  of 
three  eggs  for  each  pie,  sweetening  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  powdered  sugar  for  each  egg.  Flavor  this  with  rose- 
water  or  vaniOa;  beat  until  it  will  stand  alone,  and  cover 
the  pie  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Set  back  in  tha 
oven  until  the  meringue  is  well  "  set."  Should  it  color  too 
darkly,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  it  when  cold.      Eat  cold. 


.dhyGoogle 


Thej  are  very  Sna 

Peach  pies  are  even  more  deKcious,  made  ii 


Pippis  Pies, 

12  fine  ripe  pippins,  pared  and  grated. 

1  lb.  white  sugar. 

i  lb.  butter. 

6  eggs— whites  and  yolks  separately  beaten. 

1  lemon— grated  peel  and  juice,  with  nutmeg. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks, 
then  the  iemon,  nutmeg,  and  apple ;  lastly  the  whites,  very 
lightly.     Bake  in  paste,  with  cross-bars  of  the  same  on  top. 

Pumpkin  Pie  (No.  1).  ^ 

1  quart  stowed  pumpkia— pressed  through  a  sieve. 
9  eggs — whites  and  yolka  beaten  separately, 

2  quarts  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  mace. 

1  '  cinnamon,  and  the  same  of  nutmeg. 

H  cup  white  sugar,  or  very  liglit  brown. 
Beat  aU  well  together,  and  bake  in  crust  without  cover. 

Pumpkin  Pie  {No.  2). 

1  quart  pumpkin— stewed  and  strained. 
1      "     milk. 
1  cup  sugar. 

7  eggs — beaten  very  light. 

1  teaspoonful  ginger,  and  same  of  mace  and  cinnamon 
each. 

Squash  Pie 
h  made  precisely  like  pumpkin  pie,  except  that,  being 
less  rich,  it  req'iirea  one  more  e^  for  each  pie. 


.dhyGoogle 


Sweet-Potato  Pie  (No.  1). 

Parboil,  skin,  and  slice  crosswise  firm  sweot  potatoes. 
Line  a  dish  with,  paste,  put  in.  a  layer  of  sliced  potato, 
Bprinkle  thickly  witli  sugar,  scatttsr  among  them  a  few 
whole  cloves,  ajid  cover  witli  more  slices.  Fill  the  dish  in 
this  order ;  put  a  tablespoouful  of  melted  butter  in  each 
pie ;  pour  in  a  little  water ;  cover  with  crust,  and  bake. 

Eat  cold. 

Sweet-Potato  Pie  {No.  2).  4" 
1  lb.  mealy  sweet  potatoes.     The  firm  yellow  ones 

^  cup  butter. 

$    "    white  sugar. 

1  tablespoouful  cinnamon. 

1  toaspoonful  nutmeg. 

4  eggs — whites  and  yolks  heaten  separately. 

1  lemon,  jiiico  and  rind,  and  glass  of  brandy. 

Pa/rhoU  the  potatoes,  and  grate  them  when  quite  cold. 
If  grated  hot,  they  are  sticky  and  heavy.  Cream  the  but- 
ter and  sugar ;  add  the  yolk,  the  spice,  and  lemon ;  beat 
the  potato  in  by  degrees  and  until  all  is  light ;  then  the 
brandy,  and  stir  in  the  whites.  Bake  in  dishes  lined  with 
good  paste — without  cover. 

You  may  make  a  pudding  of  this  by  baking  in  a  deep 
dish — well  buttered,  without  paste.     Cool  before  eating, 

Irish-Potato  Pie  (or  Puddinij).  •{« 
1  lb.  mashed  potato,  rubbed  through  a  cullender. 
^  Ih.  butter — creamed  with  the  sugar, 
6  e^s— whites  and  yolks  separately. 
1  lom in— squeezed  into  the  potato  while  hot 


.dhyGoogle 


1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  same  of  mace. 

2  CTips  white  sugar. 

Mix  as  you  do  sweet  potato  pudding,  and  bake  in  open 
■hells  of  paste.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

LeuON  Pie   (or   TVamspwrent  Pudding).  *^ 
^  lb.  butter. 
1  lb.  sugar. 

6  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separately. 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 
Grated  rind  of  two, 
1  nutmeg. 
■^  glass  brandy. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beat  in  the  yolks,  the  lemon, 
spice,  and  brandy,  stirring  in  the  whites  at  the  last. 

Bake  in  pie-crust,  open. 

You  may,  if  you  wish  to  have  these  very  nice,  boat  up 
the  whites  of  but  four  eggs  in  the  mixture,  and  whip  the 
whites  of  four  more  into  a  meringue  with  four  tablespoon- 
fula  sugar  and  a  little  lemon-juice,  to  spread  over  the  top 
of  each  pie. 

Eat  cold.     They  are  very  nice  baked  in  pattypans. 

Lemon  Tie  {No.  2). 
1  apple,  chopped  fine. 
1  egg. 

1  lemon,  chop  the  inside  very  fine  and  grate  the  rind. 
1  cup  Bugar, 

Butter,  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
This  is  just  enough  for  one  pie.     Take  the  thick  white 
rirnJ  off  the  lemon  before  you  chop  it.     Take  out  tho  seeds 
carefully. 


;dhyGoogle 


Leuon  Cbeau  Fie.  •{• 
1  teacup  powdered  sugac, 
1  tablespooniiil  butter, 

^  1  lemon — juice  and  grated  rind,  removing  tlie  seeds  wit'h 

1  teafiupful  boiling  water. 

1  tablespoonfal  corn-starch,  dissolved  in  cold  water. 

Stir  the  com-starcli  into  the  water,  cream  the  butte* 
and  sugar,  and  pour  over  them  the  hot  mixture.  When 
qmte  cool,  add  lemon  and  the  beaten  egg.  Take  the  inner 
rind  off  the  lemon  and  mince  very  small. 

Bake  in  open  shell. 

Lemo^  Pib  {JVo.  3). 
3  eggs. 

1  great  spoonful  butter. 
1^  cup  white  sugar. 
Juice  and  grated  peel  of  lemon. 
Bake  in  open  sheila  of  paste. 
Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolta 
and  the  lemon,  and  bike      Teat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  me- 
ringue with  thiee  t ible spoonfuls  powdered  sugar  and  a  ht- 
tie  rose  water      When  the  pies  ■vce   done,  tike  from   the 
oven  just  long  enough  to  spread  the  mermgue  over  the  top, 
and  set  bick  for  three  ramutj'i      This  mixture  is  enoTigh 
for  two  BmaU,  or  one  ^ood  sized  pie 
Eat  cold. 

Or  AUG  E  PiE. 

3  eggs. 

^  cup  of  white  Bugar. 

2  tablespoonftds  butter. 


unsfccihyGooi^le 


1  orange— juice  and  half  the  grated  rind, 
|-  lemon — juice  and  grat«d  peel. 
Nutmeg  to  taste. 

Crejiin  the  butter  and  sugar,  beating  in  the  orange  and 
lemon  until  very  light ;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  fill  twa  pastry 
shells  and  bake.  Beat  the  whites  stiff  with  two  tablespoonfula 
powdered  sugar,  and  when  the  piea  are  done,  spread  OTer 
them,  returning  to  the  oven  for  three  or  four  minutes. 

Lemon  Tabt. 
1  cup  sugar. 

3  lemons — all  the  juice,  and  a  teaspoonful  grated  peel. 
i  teaspoonful  ooni-starch,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water . 
A  dozen  raisins  stowed,  cut  in  two  and  seeded. 
Beat  up  weU,  and  bate  with  upper  and  lower  crust. 

OltANOE  TAKTIJITg. 

2  fine  Havana  oranges,  juice  of  both,  and  grat«d  peel  of 

}  cup  of  sugar — J  cup  if  the  oranges  are  very  sweet. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

i  lemon— juice  only,  to  wet  1  teaspoonful  co    ."starch. 
Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  tartlet  shells  wilhou" 
rover. 

CnocoiATE  Tarts, 
i  eggs,  whites  and  yolia. 
■{■  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  grated. 


1  tablespoonfu!  corn-starch  dissolved  ir 

milk. 

white  sugar, 
_  ^onfuls  vanilla. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 


water 


;dhyGoogle 


364  COMMON   BENBB. 

\  teaspooiiful  (imnamon. 

1  "  butter,  melted. 

Itubthe  chocolate  smooth  in  the  milk  and  heat  to  li<>iliiij| 
over  tlie  fire,  then  stir  in  the  coru-staroh.  Sfcir  fire  min- 
utes until  well  thickened,  remove  from  the  lire,  and  pour 
into  a  bowL  Beat  all  the  yolks  and  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  well  with  the  sugar,  and  when  the  chocolate  mixture 
is  almost  cold,  put  all  together  with  the  flavoring,  and  stii 
until  light.  Bake  in  open  shells  of  pastry.  When  done, 
cover  witli  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and 
two  tablespoonfuis  of  sugar  flavored  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon-juice.     Eat  cold. 

These  are  nice  for  tea,  baked  in  pattypans. 

Cocoa-nut  Pie  {JVo,  1). 
1^  lb.  grated  cocoa-nut, 
j-  "   white  sugar  (powdered). 
6  oz.  butter. 
5  eggs — the  whites  only. 

1  glass  white  wine. 

2  tablespoonfuis  rose-water, 
1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  when  well  mixed,  beat 
very  light,  witii  the  wine  and  rose-water.  Add  the  cocoa- 
nut  with  as  little  and  as  light  heating  as  possible ;  finally, 
whip  in  the  stiffened  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  few  skilful 
Btrokes,  and  hake  at  once  in  open  shells.  Eat  cold,  with 
powdered  sugar  sifted  over  them. 

These  are  very  pretty  and  delightful  pies. 

Cocoa-nut   Pie  {m.  2). 
1  lb.  grated  cocoa-nut. 
^  "  butter. 


.dhyGooc^le 


PIES.  86S 

}  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

1  glass  of  brandy. 

2  teaspoonfuk  lemon-jmctf. 

4  eggs — white  and  yr\ka  separated. 
2  teaspooiifuls  vanilla. 
Rub  tlie  butter  and  sugar  togetherj  beat  light  with  th« 
biuuily  and  kmoa-JTiice ;  stir  ia  the  beaten  yolks  ;  lastly  ths 
eocoBrnut  ami  the  whites,  alternately.     Bake  in  open  shell* 
Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  over  it. 

Cocoa-nut  Cdstaed  Pie, 
1  lb.  cocoa-nut,  grated. 
^  "   powdered  sugar. 
1  quart  milk,  unskimmed, 
6  eggs  beaten  to  a  fi-oth. 

1  teaspoonfui  nutmeg. 

2  teaspoon  fuls  vanilla  or  rose-waier. 

Boil  the  milk,  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  whip  in  grad- 
nally  the  beaten  egga.  When  nearly  cold,  season ;  add  the 
cocoa-nut,  and  pour  into  paste-shells.  Do  not  boil  the  e^ 
and  milk  together.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Some  put  the  custard  quite  raw  into  the  pie-dishes,  but 
the  cocoa-nut  is  apt,  in  that  case,  to  settle  at  the  bottom. 

You  may,  however,  pour  the  raw  mixture  into  cups, 
and  hake  by  setting  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  stirring  weU 
once,  as  they  begin  to  warm.  This  is  cocoa-nut  cup-cu* 
tard,  and  ia  much  liked. 

Oho  COL  ATE   Gust  akd -pie, 
1  quarter-calte  of  Baker's  chocolate,  grated. 
1  pint  boiling  water. 
6  eggs. 
1  quart  milk. 


.dhyGoogle 


-}-  cvip  wMte  sugar. 
2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla. 

Dissolve  tlie  chocolate  in  a  very  little  milk,  stir  iiibo 
(iie  boiling  water,  and  boil  three  minutes.  When  nearly 
cold,  beat  up  with  this  the  jolka  of  all  the  eggs  and  the 
whites  of  three.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the  milk,  season, 
and  pour  into  sheila  of  good  paste.  When  the  custard  is 
"  set " — but  not  more  than  half  done — spread  over  it  the 
whites,  whipped  to  a  froth,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Yon  may  bake  these  custards  without  paste,  in  a  pud- 
ding-dish or  cups  set  in  boiling  water. 

CosN-sTARcn  Custard  Pie.  •{. 
6e^s. 
3  pints  milk, 

6  tablespoonfuls  wLite  sugar. 
2  "  corn-starch. 

2  teaspoonfuls  essence  bitter  almonds. 

Boil  the  milk,  stir  in  the  com-staxch  wet  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  IkjII  one  minute.  "When  nearly  cold,  stir  in  the 
sugar,  tbi  yolks  of  all  the  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  two; 
lavor,  and.  pour  into  your  paste-sheUs.  "Whip  tlie  remain- 
ing whites  to  a  meringue,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  wliite 
sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  when  the  custard 
is  just  "  set,"  draw  your  pies  to  the  edge  of  the  oven  to 
spread  this  over  them.  Do  it  quickly,  lest  the  custard  fal! 
by  exposure  to  the  air. 

You  may  bake  this  as  a  pudding  by  omitting  the  pastry, 
Eat  cold. 

If  you  have  not  corn-starch,  substitute  arrow-root  ji 
rico-flour 


.dhyGoogle 


CuSTAfiD   PiK. 

1  quiirt  of  milk. 
4  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar, 
Flavor  with  vaiiilla  or  other  essence. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  light,  and  mix  with  the  milk 
flavor,  wliip  iii  the  whites,  which  should  be  already  a  stiff 
froth,  mix  well,  and  pour  into  shells.     Grate  nutmeg  upon 
the  top. 

Bake  this  as  cup-custard,  or  a  custard  puddiug,  in  cupa 
or  a.  deep  dish  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  wat«r. 

PfiAon  Pie.  .fi 

Peel,  stone,  and  slice  tlie  j)eaches.  Lino  a  pie-plate 
with  a  good  crust,  and  lay  in  your  fruit,  sprinkling  sugar 
liberaOy  over  them  in  proportion  to  tiieir  sweetness.  Very 
ripe  peaches  require  comparatively  little.  Allow  three 
peach-kei'uela,  chopped  fiae,  to  each  pie ;  pour  in  a  very 
little  water,  and  bake  with  an  upper  crust,  or  with  cross- 
bars of  (Miste  across  the  top. 

Some  simply  pare  the  peaches  and  put  in  whole,  pack* 
ing  them  well,  and  sweetening  freely.  In  this  case  thoy 
should  be  covered  entirely  with  crust. 

For  one  of  the  most  delightful  pies  that  can  bo  made  of 
any  fruit,  look  for  tipple  merinffue  pie,  and  substitute  peach- 
es. I  can  peaches  expressly  to  have  peach  meringues  in 
winter-time. 

Cherry  Pie, 

Line  the  dish  with  a  good  crust,  and  fill  with  ripe  char- 
ries,  regulating  the  quantity  of  sugar  you  scatter  over  them 
by  their  sweetness.     Cover  and  bake. 

Eat  cold,  with  white  sugar  sifted  over  the  top. 


.dhyGoogle 


DOS  COMMON   BENSB. 

BlACKBEURY,   RA5PUEERY,  AND 

Are  made  m  the  same  n 


CuKRANT  AKD  Rasi'berey  Taht.  •!• 
To  throe  cups  of  currants  allow  one  of  raspberries.    Mil 

well  together  before  you  fill  the  orustj  and  sweeten  abun 

dantly.     Cover  with  crust  and  bake. 

Eat  cold,  with  white  sugar  sifted  over  it, 

CuKKANT  Tart 
Is  made  as  above,  with  more  sugar.  The  most  common 
fault  of  currant  pie  is  extreme  sourness.  Small  fruits 
should  be  looked  over  carefuOy  before  they  are  cooked. 
Currants  are  troublesome,  but  they  must  nevertheless  be 
looked  after  waiily  on  acoovmt  of  their  extreme  stem- 

Geeen  Ooosebeeky  Taet.  4" 

Top  and  tan  the  gooseberries.  Put  into  a  porcelain  ket- 
tle with  enough  water  to  prevent  burning,  and  stew  slowly 
until  they  break.  Take  them  off,  sweeten  vjeli,  and  set  asid-^ 
to  cool.  When  cold  pour  into  pastry  shells,  and  bake  witli 
a  top  crust  of  puff-paste.  Brush  all  over  with  beaten  egf, 
while  hot,  set  hack  in  the  oven  to  glaze  for  three  minutes. 

Eat  cold. 

Ripe  Qooseberby  Pie, 

Top  and  tail  tlie  berries,  lane  your  dish  with  crust, 
and  fill  with  berries,  strewing  white  sugar  among  them. 
Cover  and  bake. 

Dam  BON  Tart. 

Pick  overthe  fruit,  put  in  a  dish  lined  with  pastry,  sweeten 
very  freely,  cover  and  bake.  Brush  with  beaten  egg  when 
done,  and  return  to  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  glaze. 


.dhyGoogle 


Ckambbrry  Taiit. 
Wash  and  pick  over  the  berries.  Put  into  a  porcelain 
saucepan  with  a  very  little  water,  and  simmer  until  they 
burst  open  and  become  soft.  Run  through  a  cullender  t<t 
pemoTO  the  skins,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Bake  in  pastry 
ahella,  with  a  cross-bar  of  pastry  over  the  top. 

Steawbekry  Pie. 

Cap  and  pick  over  the  berries,  arrange  in  layers,  be- 
oprinkle  with  a  good  coating  of  sugar,  in  a  shell  of  pastry. 
Fill  it  veiy  full,  as  strawberries  shrink  verj  much  in  cook- 
ing.     Cover  with  crust  and  bake. 

Huckleberry  pie  is  made  in  the  same  way, 

Cbeam  Easpberhy  Tart.  •}• 

Line  a.  dish  with  paste  and  fill  with  raspberries,  made 
very  sweet  with  powdered  sugar.  Cover  with  paste,  but  do 
not  pinch  it  down  at  the  edges.  When  done,  lift  the  top 
crust,  which  should  be  thicker  than  usual,  and  pour  upon 
the  fruit  the  followir^  mixture : — 

1  small  cup  of  niillc — half  cream,  if  you  can  get  it,  heated 
to  boiling. 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  light  and  stirred  into  the 
boUing  milk. 

1  tablcspoonful  white  sugar. 

i  teaspoonful  corn-starch  wet  in  cold  milk. 

Boil  these  ingredients  three  minutes ;  let  them  get  jier- 
fectly  cold  before  you  put  them  into  the  tart.  Keplace  the 
top  crust,  and  set  the  pie  aside  to  cool.  Spiiukle  sugar  otm 
the  top  before  serving. 

You  make  strawberry  cream  tart  in  the  S£ 
16* 


.dhyGoogle 


olU  COMMON   SENSE. 

Rhubarb  Tam.  (Open.) 
Skiu  thit  stalks  with  care,  cut  into  small  pieces ;  put  into 
a  saucopan  with  very  little  water,  and  stiiw  slowly  until 
soft.  Sweeten  -while  hot,  but  do  not  cook  the  sugar  -witk 
ihe  fruit.  It  injures  the  flavor,  by  making  it  taste  like  pro- 
serves.  Have  ready  some  freshly-baked  sheila.  Fill  up 
with  the  fruit  and  tliey  are  ready  to  serve. 

Or— 4. 
You  may,  after  sweetening  the  stewed  rhubarb,  stir  in  a 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  liickory-nut  for  each  pie,  also  a 
well-beaten  egg  for  each,  and  bake  in  pastiy.     Lay  cross- 
bars of  past*  over  the  toj). 

Rhubarb  Pie.  {Covered.) 

Skin  the  stalks,  cut  in  lengths  of  half  an  inch;  strew 
lavishly  with  sugar,  and  fill  the  crusts  with  the  raw  fruit. 
Some  scatter  seedless  raisins  among  the  rhubarb.  Cover, 
and  bake  nearly  three-quarters  of  au  hour.  Bmsh  with 
egg  while  hot,  and  return  to  the  oven  to  glaze. 

Eat  cold,  as  you  do  all  fruit-pies. 


SERVANTS. 

Some  years  ago— more  tlian  I   care  to  count  over I 

iwad  a  lively  little  book  entitled,  "  The  Greatest  Plague  of 
Life."  1  have  forgotten  who  wiote  it,  if  I  eier  knew  It 
was  in  the  form  of  an  autobiogiaphy ,  the  heroine  called 
herself,  with  an  amusing  affpctation  of  diB^-uise,  "  Jlrs. 
S-k-u*t-n,"  and  it  was  lUustrated  by  Geui^re  Ciuikshank. 
I  read  it  aloud  in  my  home  circle,  and  m  luy  a  hearty  Hugh 
we  had  over  the  poor  Hdy's  perplexities  and  calamities, 

;  the  history  as  a  clever  burlesque,  I  suffered 


.dhyGoogle 


SBRTAirra.  371 

BO  appreciable  draught  ujtoii  my  sympaLliiGS  until  time  arid 
eKperience  brought  me  in.  contact  with  so  many  who  echoed 
tier  plaint,  that  I  could  not  but  recur,  now  and  then,  with  a 
half-sad  smile,  to  her  sufferings  under  the  rule  of  Norah, 
who  chased  her  up-stairs  with  a  carving-knife  ;  with  Mary, 
who  drank  up  the  cherry-brandy,  filled  the  bottle  with  cold 
weak  tea,  and  kept  her  pitying  employers  up  all  night  to 
pull  her  through  an  epileptic  fit ;  with  John,  who  never  an- 
swered the  parlor  bell  "  unless  they  persewered; "  whose 
stomsich  could  not  bear  cold  meat  at  dinner,  but  rallied 
bravely  under  a  couple  of  pounds  at  supper.  There  was 
one  nurseiy-maid  who  whipped  Mrs.  S-k-n-a-t-n'a  child,  and 
another  who  upset  the  perambulator  in  the  park,  and,  too 
much  absorbed  in  the  suit  of  a  whiskered  Guardsman  to 
note  what  had  happened,  went  on  dragging  the  carriage 
upon  its  side  until  the  baby's  cheek  was  cnielly  scarified  by 
the  gravel — besides  a  host  of  other  itrawortliies  set  for  the 
distress  of  Mrs.  S-k-n-s-t-n's  mind,  body,  and  estate. 

"  Douglas  JeiTold  wrote  that  book,"  interrupted  a  Mend 
at  my  elbow.  "  And,  apropos  de  boUes,  have  you  seen 
Punch's  recent  article,  '  Servantgalism ;  or,  "What  Shall 
He  Done  With  the  Misausses  ? ' " 

"  The  malady  in  America  must  bear  another  name,"  re- 
marks a  lady,  gayly.  "  We  have  no  servants—  at  least  in 
this  region.  My  cook  is  foi'ty-seven  years  old,  and  my 
chambermaid  a  widow,  who  has  buried  two  children ;  yet 
they  would  be  highly  affronted  were  1  to  speak  of  them  ex- 
cept as  '  girls.'  It  is  a  generic  term  that  belongs  to  the 
class  'who  live  out,'  from  sixteen  up  to  sixty.  I  had  a 
lesson  on  this  head  not  a  month  since.  My  laundiesa, 
who  has  lived  with  me  six  years,  was  thanking  me  for  a  ser 
vice  I  had  done  her  brother. 

"  '  I'll  never  forget  you  for  it,  mem,'  she  sobbed.  '  I'll 
biesa  you  for  it,  on  me  knees,  night  and  morning.' 


.dhyGoogle 


o7a  COMMON  SENSE. 

"  I  am  glad  I  have  been  able  to  liel|)  your  fiiendf^ 
Katy,"  I  said.      "  You  have  been  a  faithful  servant  to 

She  cut  my  sentence  in  tke  middle  by  walking  out  of 
tho  room — I  siij)])Osed,  to  conceal  ber  eniotioua.  I  was  un- 
deceived, five  minutes  later,  when  her  angry  tones  reached 
me  from  the  kitchen,  the  door  of  whicb  she  had  left  open 

"  I'll  never  believe  a  person  has  a  good  1  eart  or  de- 
serves to  be  called  a  Christian,  who  nait  es  an  hone  t, 
respeclable  girl  who  tries  to  do  her  duty  a  si-rxaiitl  A 
faitlifid  servant ! '  says  sbe  ;  '  as  if  she  wis  a  que  n  anJ  me- 
eelf  a  beggar  ! ' " 

"  What  did  you  say  to  the  uugratefi  I  wTetcli  :■  asks  a 
listener,  indignantly. 

"  Nothing.  I  went  quietly  out  of  he  in„  lemii  1  d 
for  Uio  hundredth  time,  of  Solomon's  \  i  iin"  TiL  no 
heed  unto  all  words  that  are  spoken,  i  st  th  u  hear  thy 
servant  curse  thee,'  I  recalled,  teo,  tl  e  saying  of  a 
mightier  than  tlie  Eoyal  Pi-eacher :  '  "Wl  soe%  er  v  11  be 
greatest  among  you,  let  him  be  your  serva  t 

"X  thoiight  you  wei-e  one  of  the  ta^oied  f  w  who  had 
no  trouble  with  them,"  says  another  housekeeper  sighmgly 
"There  is  real  comfort, — excuse  me,  my  dear  Mrs  bttr 
ling,— but  it  is  refreshing  to  a  wearied  soul  to  know  that 
you  have  felt  some  of  our  tribulations.  It  seems  to  me,  at 
times,  that  there  ia  no  other  affliction  worthy  the  name 
when  compared  with  what  we  endure  from  the  '  Necessary 
Eril.'  I  have  tried  all  sorts — tho  representatives  from 
every  nation  under  heaven,  I  verily  believe — and  tkei/  am 
kU  alike/     They  will  wear  me  into  an  untimely  grave  yet.'' 

"  I  wouldn't  let  them,  my  dear  Martha,"  replies  Mm, 
Sterling,  with  her  sunny  smile.  "  If  evils,  they  are  surely 
minor  affl!ct!Oiis.  And,  after  all,  I  imagine  'they', ore  a 
good    dc-,i,l   li];o  tho   rest  of  mau  aud   womankind —jiiflty 


.dhyGoogle 


6EKVASTB  373 

much  &s  you  (.Loose  to  take  tliem  The  tratL  ia,  llieie  la 
ao  justii-e  in  wholes  i!e  denunciation  of  any  cl.ii>s.  You 
recollect  the  ■\Ve&tern  oiatoi's  tiuism,  '  llumdji  nature^ 
Mr.  President,  nine  cases  out  of  ten,  is  liuiujji  natiiie. 
When  I  considei  the  mfluBnces  under  wliirh  a  mnjoiity  of 
our  servants  llt^e  been  leamd — ignoiant*,  povtity,  super 
stition,  often  evil  example  ui  their  htmes — my  wonder  is, 
not  at  tlie  woitlilessnesa  of  some,  hut  tiiat  [,o  many  Are 
virtuous,  honest,  and  oideily  "ion  will  allow  tliat,  as  a 
general  thmg,  they  aie  quite  15  indnstnous  as  their  mis- 
tresses, and  contiol  their  tempers  almost  iS  well  And  we 
make  so  minj  mi^tikes  m  our  deilm^q  with  them  !  " 

My  old  fiiend  Joes  not  otton  lecture,  hut  she  haa  some- 
thing to  say  now,  on  1  forgets  herself  m  her  subject. 

"  We  err  so  grievously  in  our  management,  that  a  sense 
of  our  failures  should  teach  us  charity.  Do  we  understand, 
ourselves,  what  is  the  proper  place  of  a  hired  '  help  '  in  out 
families?  If  it  is  the  disposition  of  Mrs.  Shoddy  to  tram- 
ple upon  them  as  souJless  machines,  Mrs.  Kindly  makes  a 
sort  of  elder  daughter  of  her  maid;  indulges,  eonaulta, 
and  confides  in  her,  and  wonders,  by-and-by,  to  find  herself 
under  Abigail's  thumb — her  husband  and  children  subject 
to  the  caprices  of  a  pampered  menial.  I  never  hear  a  lady 
say  of  a  valued  domestic, 'I  could  not  get  along  without 
her,'  without  anticipating  as  a  certainty  the  hour  when 
she  shall  announce,  '  There  is  such  a  thing  as  keeping  a 
servant  too  long.'  The  crisis  comes,  then,  to  Mrs.  Kindly. 
Tn  a  moment  of  desperation  she  frees  her  neck  from  tha 
yoke.  Abigail  packs  her  six  tnmks,  having  entered  Mrs. 
Kindly's  service,  seven  years  before,  with  her  worldly  all 
dime  up  in  a  newspaper,  shaltes  the  dust  off  the  neat  Eal- 
wioral  hoots  which  have  replaced  her  brogaus,  against  the 
heartless  tyrant  who  sits  crying,  in  hor  own  room  up-stairs, 
over  thoiLglils  of  how  Abigail  has  been  so  clean,  qiiick,  and 


.dhyGoogle 


S74  COMMON    SENSE. 

devoted  to  Ler  interests  ;  how  she  has  nursed  Ler  tlicough 
a  long  and  dangerous  iUuess,  and  had  the  charge  of  Emma 
and  Bobby  from  their  birth.  She  has  prepai'ed  a  handsome 
present  for  her  in  memoiy  of  all  this,  and  is  hurt  mora 
than  by  anything  else  when  she  learns  that  tlie  girl  haa 
takeii  her  final  departure  without  even  kissing  the  baby, 

"  It  is  not  strange  that  the  deceived  mistress  should,  from 
tiiat  day,  write  down.  Abigail  a  monster  of  ingratitude,  and 
forget  the  faithful  service  of  years  in  the  smart  of  wounded 
feeling;  when  the  truth  is  that  she  did  the  maid  mora 
injury  by  injudicious  petting,  than  the  latter  could  do  her 
mistress  had  she  absconded  with  aU  the  piate  in  the  houses 
She  has,  as  might  have  been  expected,  proved  Abigail's  un- 
fi:  ness  to  he  her  confidante  aod  co-adviser ;  but,  at  the  samo 
time,  she  has  filled  her  brain  with  notions  of  her  superior- 
ity to  her  fellow  servants,  her  heart  with  burnings  for  the 
higher  sta+ion  she  can  never  occupy. 

"  I  speak  feelingly  upon  this  subject,"  continues  Mrs. 
Sterling,  with  a  laugh ;  "  for  I  was  once  led  iuto  this 
very  mI^,take  myself,  hy  the  attractive  qualities  of  a  young 
woman  who  lived  with  me  nine  years  as  seamstress  and 
chambermaid.  She  was  so  even-tempered,  so  sensible,  in- 
dustrious, and  respectful,  that  she  gained  upon  the  esteem 
of  us  aO,  One  day,  while  we  sat  together  at  work,  I  told 
her  of  some  family  changes  in  prospect,  prefacing  the  com- 
munication by  the  remark,  '  I  want  to  speak  to  you  of 
something,  Eliza,  which  you  must  not  meation  to  any  one 
else  at  present.  The  interests  of  an  employer  and  a  ser- 
vant should  he  the  same.' 

"  Then,  very  fooliahly,  I  opened  up  my  mind  freely  on 
the  subject  tliat  engaged  it.  She  answered  modestly,  but 
intelligently,  entering  into  my  plans  witli  such  cordial  in- 
terest and  pledges  of.  cooperation,  that  I  went  to  prepaid 
for  a  walk,  feeling  really  strengthened  and  cheered  by  tha 


.dhyGoogle 


BKETAHTB.  375 

talk.  At  the  front  dcor  I  was  met  hy  a  letter  reqiiiring  an 
inuBodiate  reply.  Eeturning  to  my  cliambor  to  lay  off  nij 
bat  and  sliaivl,  I  heard  Eliza  talking  loudly  and  gleefully, 
in  tlie  adjoining  sewing-room,  with  tte  cook,  -whom  she 
m«st  have  called  up-staics  through  the  speaking-tube.  You 
cannot  imagine,  nor  I  describe,  my  sensations  at  listening, 
against  my  will,  to  an  exa^erated  account  of  the  inter- 
view  which  had  just  taken  place.  Not  only  my  language, 
but  my  tones  were  mimicked  with  great  gusto  and  much 
laughter  by  my  late  confidante— the  phrase  '  The  interests 
of  the  employer  and  the  sei-vant  should  be  the  same' 
ocouning  again  and  again,  and  forming,  apparently,  the 
ci-eam  of  the  joke.  I  was  very  angry.  But  for  the  rule 
adopted  eaily  in  my  married  life,  never  to  reprove  a  ser- 
vant when  out  of  humor,  I  should  instantly  have  ordered 
the  treachei-oua  creature — as  I  named  her — from  the  house. 
I  sat  down  instead,  to  cool  off  and  to  think.  With  reflec- 
tion, common  sense  rallied  to  my  aid. 

"  '  The  girl  does  well  enough  in  her  place,  which  is  that 
of  a  hired  chambermaid  and  seamstress,'  said  this  monitor. 
'  She  knew  her  position,  and  would  have  kept  it,  but  for 
your  folly  in  dra^ng  her  up  to  temporary  equality  with 
yourself  You  made  yourself  ridiculous,  and  die  was 
shrewd  enough  to  see  it.  Take  the  lesson  to  heart ;  write 
it  out  in  full  for  future  guidance,  and  keep  your  own 
counsel.' 

"Eliza  never  suspected  my  discovery.  She  remained 
with  me  untU  her  marriage  a  year  afterward,  and  wo  parted 
upon  good  terms." 

I  have  quoted  from  my  iriend  at  length,  because  I  honor 
ber  excellent  judgment  and  mature  experience,  and  because 
I  agree  so  fully  -n-ith  her  touching  the  evil  of  so-called  con- 
adeutiaJ  servants.  The  principle  of  acknowledged  fevorit- 
ism  ia  ruinous  to  domestic  comfort,  let  who  may  be  th« 


;dhyGoogle 


376  COMMON  BETfSB. 

object  thus  distingiiiaiieiL  Kely  upon  it,  my  dear  lady,  at 
least  one-tLird  of  home-wrangles  and  social  scandal  arisei 
from  this  cause.  Be  assured,  also,  tliat  if  you  do  not  pei* 
ceive  the  impropriety  of  lowering  yourself  to  the  level  ot 
your  subordinates,  they  will,  and  gauge  their  beliavior  ac- 
cordingly. The  connection  is  fm  unnatural  one,  and,  like 
all  otters  of  the  kind,  must  terminate  disastrously  in  time. 
Tkcn  the  discarded  ikvorite,  aggrieved  and  exasperatedj 
leaves  your  house  to  tattle  ill  the  ears  of  some  other  indis- 
creet mistress,  of  your  sayings  and  doinga.  Show  your 
servant  that  you  respect  yourself  and  her  too  truly  to  for- 
get what  is  due  to  both.  Be  kind,  pleasant,  always  reason- 
able and  attentive  to  her  needs,  willing  to  hearken  to  and 
meet  any  lawful  request.  Make  her  comfortable,  and,  so 
far  as  yon  can,  happy. 

Excuse  one  more  quotation  from  Mrs.  Sterling,  whom, 
when  I  was  much  younger  than  I  am  now,  I  consulted 
with  regard  to  the  just  medium  between  familiarity  and 
ftuat-erity. 

"  Itemember  they  are  human  beings,  and  treat  them  as 
Budi,"  she  said.  "  Not  that  you  are  likely  to  reap  a  larga 
rewai'd  in  tlieir  gratitude,  but  bccaiise  it  is  rigiit,  and  be- 
ciiuse  you  find  no  exceptions  to  the  practice  of  the  Golden 
Kule  laid  down  in  the  Bible.  Be  faithful  in  your  obedience 
k)  the  law  of  kindness.  With  the  return  tide  you  have 
nothing  to  do.  Tliis  is  a  safe  and  straight  inth.  I  believe 
it  to  he  also  the  smoothest.  You  will  be  better  and  more 
cheerfully  served  than  your  neighbor,  who,  recognizing  in 
every  hirehng  a  natural,  enemy,  is  always  on  the  defensive." 

I  have  found  the  most  serious  obstacle  to  a  comfortable 
pursuance  of  her  safe  path,  to  lie  in  this  same  prejudice — 
rooted  by  centuries  of  misunderstandings  and  caate-wars — ■ 
the  belief  of  necessary  antagonism  between  employers  and 
employed.      !Mis.  Sterling's   Eliza   only  expressed   tlie  prd- 


;dhyGoogle 


SEEVA2JT8.  371 

vailing  Bentiment  of  lier  class,  when  she  ridiculed  her 
mistress'  proposition  that  their  interests  ought  to  be  identi- 
cal. I  have  failed  so  often  and  so  signally  in.  tiie  endeavoi 
to  impress  the  merits  of  thia  policy  upon  domestics,  that  I 
rarely  attempt  it  now  There  is  always  a  suspicion — mora 
or  less  apparent — that  you  hare  a  single  eye  to  self-interest 
in  all  your  regulations  and  counsels.  "  Wliat  does  aha 
ho\m  to  gain  ?  What  am  I  in  danger  of  losing  ?  "  are  the 
queries  that  invariably  present  themselves  to  tho  subordi- 
nate's mind.  The  argumenta  by  which  your  plana  are  aup. 
ported  are  thrown  away  upon  ignorant  and  illogical  iisten- 
era — your  array  of  facts  totally  disbelieved.  Your  auditor 
does  not  say  thia,  but  in  divers  and  ingenioiis  ways  she 
contrives  to  let  yon  know  that  she  is  not  so  silly  as  to  bo 
imposed  upon  by  the  apecious  array  of  evidence. 

Tor  how  much  of  this  are  mistresses  responsible  ?  Haa 
this  creed  of  distrust  been  learned  by  experience  of  injuatice 
or  exaction,  or  is  it  one  of  the  populto;  prejudices,  which 
are  hai-der  to  overthrow  than  sound  and  weD-established 
principle?  Of  one  thing  I  am  certain:  Mistresses  and 
maids  would  more  speedily  come  to  a  right  understanding 
of  oneness  of  interest  but  for  the  influence  exerted  over  the 
former  by  Mrs.  Jones,  Mrs.  Eobinson,  and  Mrs.  Brown, 
wjio  don't  alldw  this,  and  couldn't  thiuk  of  that,  and  never 
heard  of  the  cither  privilege  or  immunity  being  granted  to 
servants.  Before  they  would  yield  auch  a  point,  or  submit 
to  one  ByUable  of  dictation,  tliey  would  do  all  their  own 
work,  etc.,  etc.  Poor  Mrs.  Pliable,  listening  dumbly  and 
meekly,  goes  home  ivith  a  low-spirited  sense  of  her  own 
pusillanimity  upon  her,  and  tries  to  assert  her  authority 
and  redeem  past  laults  by  a  audden  tightening  of  the  reinH 
that  results  in  a  runaway  and  general  smash-up. 

Cannot  we  reiiiembor — you  and  I — my  dear  reader,  that 
we  may  sometinies  be  as  nearly  right  as  those  who  talk  mors 


;dhyGoogle 


378  COMMON   SENSE. 

locdiy  and  strongly  than  we  upon  domestic  econoin j ,  Isiying 
do>vn  rules  we.  never  thought  of  suggesting;  splitting  into 
nintlia  a  liair  our  short-sighted  eyes  cannot  make  out  when 
whole,  and  annihilating  our  timid  objections  with  a  lordly 
"  Zalways  do  so,"  which  is  equal  to  a  decree  of  infallibility  f 
Cannot  we  make  up  our  minds,  once  and  for  all,  to  be  a  law 
unto  ourselves  in  all  matters  pertaining  to  our  householdr,  ? 
Mrs.  Jonos'  rule  may  be  good  for  her ;  Mrs,  Eobinsoii'o 
better  than  any  otlier  in  her  particular  case,  and  Mrs. 
Brown's  best  of  all  for  one  in  her  peculiar  circumstances  J 
yet  any  one  or  all  of  them  be  unsuitable  for  our  use. 

Avoid  talking  about  your  domestic  affairs  with  people 
whose  gossip  on  these  topics  is  incessant.  You  are  angry 
when  at  whiff  of  some  such  discussion  a^  enlightened  Mrs, 
Sterling,  with  regard  to  our  mistake,  is  wafted  to  you 
through  the  dumb-waiter  or  register,  an  accident  that  will 
occur  while  the  tones  of  the  plaintiffs  are  loud  and  untrain- 
ed by  education  or  pohcy.  It  is  mean  and  unkind — traitor- 
ous, in  lact,  you  say,  for  them  so  to  misrepresent  and  revile 
you — after  all  the  kindness  you  have  showed  to  tlieni,  too ! 
Bridget,  Chloe,  or  Gretchen,  passing  the  parlor-door  and 
catching  the  sound  of  her  name  as  roughly  handled,  may 
have  her  own  sensations,  and  draw  her  own  inferences — 
being  human  like  yourself.  It  is  tiresome  and  vulgar,  this 
everlasting  exchange  of  experiences  about  "  my  girl,"  and 
"  your  girl,"  and  everybody  else's  "  girl."  It  is  time  sensi- 
ble women  ceased,  in  this  respect,  to  imitate  the  fashion  of 
the  class  they  censure,  and  put  down  the  bootless  tattle 
with  a  strong  will.  Order  your  household,  then,  so  fax 
aright  as  you  can  by  the  help  of  common  sense  and  grace 
from  on  high,  and  let  Mesdames  Jones,  Eobinson,  and 
Brown  look  to  the  ways  of  their  own,  and  expend  their 
surplus  energies  upon  their  neighbors'  concerns — counting 
you  out. 


.dhyGoogle 


beevjlkts.  379 

(I  believe  that  ia  sltmg,  but  lot  it  stand  I) 

These  wortliy  and  fussy  housewives  act  upon  the  sup- 
position that  all  "  girls  "  are  cast  in  the  samo  mould,  Bein^ 
Lninau  {tlo  not  let  us  forget  that !),  the  probability  ia,  that 
there  are  ^'arieties  of  the  species. 

But,  if  the  mistresses  are  led  by  their  associates,  tlifl 
"gii-i'a  "  "acquaintances"  sway  her  yet  more  powerfully. 
Every  conscientious,  well-meaning  housewife  knows  what  a 
brake  ia  this  informal,  but  terrible  "  Union  "  upon  her  en- 
deavors to  improve  and  really  benefit  those  under  her  di- 
rection. I  have  been  amazed  and  disgusted  at  tlie  tyranny 
exercised  by  tliis  irresponsible  body  over  the  best  servants 
I  have  ever  seen. 

"  "We  would  be  hooted  at,  ma'am,  if  we  didn't  give  in 
to  tliem,"  said  one,  when  I  represented  how  senseless  and 
almost  suicidal  was  the  course  recommended  by  these  evil 
advisers.  "  There's  not  a  girl  in  town  would  speak  to  us 
if  we  didn't  join  in  with  tlie  rest.  It's  like  a  strike,  you 
see — awful  upon  them  as  holds  back." 

I>0  not,  then,  my  discouraged  fellow-laborer,  imagine 
that  I  am  ignorant  of  your  trials,  your  doubts,  your  dis- 
heartening experiences.  If  I  disagree  with  Mi-s.  S-k-n-a-t-n 
and  do  not  pronounce  our  servants  to  be  the  greatest  plague 
of  life,  inclining  rather  to  the  belief  that — always  allow- 
ing for  human  nature  and  the  drawbacks  I  have  enumer- 
ated— good  mistresses  are  apt  to  make  good  servants,  it 
is  in  consequence  of  long  and  careful  study  and  observa- 
tion of  the  practical  working  of  Mrs.  Sterling's  rule.  Like 
begets  like.  Pleasant  words  are  more  likely  to  be  an- 
swered by  pleasant  than  are  tart  or  hasty  ones.  If  you 
would  have  your  servants  respectful  to  you,  be  respectful 
to  them.  The  best  way  to  teach  them  politeness  is  by 
example.  It  should  not  cost  you  an  effort  to  say,  "Thank 
you,"  or  "If  you  please."    The  habit  exerts  a 


.dhyGoogle 


Sou  COMMON   SENSE. 

refining  iniluencG  upon  them,  aad  you  dignify  instead  ai 
degrading  your  ladyhood  by  being  pitiful  and  courteoui 
to  .all.  If  you  can  only  maintain  your  position  by  haugh- 
tiness and  chilling  disregard  of  tlie  feelings  of  inferiors, 
your  rank  ia  false,  or  you  unfit  to  hold  it. 

To  begin,  then. :  Be  mistre^  of  yourself.  Amid  all 
yoiu:  tenipta,tions  to  angry  or  sarcastic  speech  (and  how 
many  and  how  strong  these  are,  you  and  I  know),  curb 
yourself  with  tlie  recoUeetion  that  it  is  despicable,  no  leas 
than  useless,  to  say  cutting  things  to  one  who  Itas  no  right 
to  retort  upon  you  in  kind, 

"  Ma',"  says  Miss  Aurelia  in  Miss  Sedgwick's  adinirabla 
story,  "Live  and  let  Live" — "how  can  you  let  your  hdpbe 
SO  saucy  to  you  ?  " 

Master  Julius,  who  waa  standing  by,  took  a  difierent 
view  of  the  matter. 

"  If  Ma'  doesn't  want  her  help  to  be  garei/  to  her,"  he 
Baid,  "she  hadn't  ought  to  be  sare^  to  them." 

Teach  your  children  the  like  forma  of  kindly  speech 
and  habits  of  consideration  for  the  comfort  and  happinfiss 
of  your  domestics,  checking  with  equal  promptness  undue 
freedom  and  the  an-ogance  of  station.  It  is  as  graceful  to 
bend  as  it  is  mean  to  grovel. 

Learn  not  to  see  everything,  and,  so  soon  as  you  can, 
put  fiir  from  you  the  delusive  hope  tliat  anybody  else — 
unless  it  be  dear  old  John — will  ever  serve  you  as  well 
as  you  would  serve  yourself.  This  failure  is  attributable 
to  some  one  of  the  nine-tenths  we  spoke  of  jiist  now.  She 
is  a  prudent  hoiisekeeper  who  can  wink  at  tiifling  blemishes 
"itiiout  effort  or  parade.  There  is  one  text  which  hai 
come  into  my  troubled  mind  himdreds  of  times  on  such 
occaaions,  calming  perturbation  into  solemnity,  and  bring- 
ing, I  hope,  charity  with  humility  : — 


.dhyGoogle 


S81 

"  If  TlwUf  Loi'J,  shouldst  loark  iniquities,  O  Lord, 
whd  Btiill  stand  ?  " 

But  if  your  hold  of  the  rein  be  gentle,  let  it  also  ba 
firm.  Never  forget  that  the  house  is  youra,  and  that  yoii 
— not  hirelings — are  ri'Sjionsible  for  the  disposition  of  the 
stores  purchased  with  John's  money. 

"  I   was  much  amused  the  other  day,"  said  an  easy- 
I    tempci-eii  lady  to  me,  "  at  a  talk  that  passed  under  my  win- 
dow between  my  new  cook  and  one  of  her  visitors. 

" '  And  how  are  ye  gitting  along ? '  asked-  the  gnest. 

"  '  Oh !  pretty  well-ish,  now,'  was  the  repiy.  '  I  waa 
a-feard,  when  I  first  come,  that  site  would  bother  me  a-trot- 
ting  down  into  the  kitchen  so  constant.  But  I  give  her  a 
hint  as  how  that  wasn't  the  trick  of  a  raal  lady,  and  she's 
kep'  out  niooly  sence  then.  You've  got  to  stand  up  for 
your  own  rights  in  this  wurrld,  or  you'll  be  trod  upon.' " 

Now,  it  would  be  throwing  away  words  to  reason  with 
&  woman  like  that  cook,  or  a  mistress  might  show  that  in 
no  other  department  of  labor  would  such  a  principle  be 
tolerated — that  from  the  Secretary  of  State  down  to  the 
Bcavenger  who  empties  your  ash-pan,  every  employe  who 
draws  wages  has  an  overlooker,  to  whom  he  is  acco\mtabIa 
for  the  manner  in  which  his  work  is  done  and  liis  money 
earned ;  and  that  tho  fact  that  she  is  aji  ignorant,  high- 
tempered  woman  is  no  just  cause  of  exemption.  Yet  in 
how  many  families  is  this  point  tacitly  yielded,  and  the 
mistress  admitted  upon  sufferance  to  her  own  kitclicn — the 
loom  furnished  witii  her  money,  and  in  whicli  slic  hardly 
dare  touch  or  look  at  the  articles  intended  for  the  consump- 
tion of  her  own  family? 

One  often  hears  such  remarks  as,  "  It  isn't  every  girl 
who  win  stand  haviag  the  mistress  popping  in  and  out 
while  she  is  at  work,"  When,  in  any  other  situation,  the 
very  fact  of  this  unwillingness  to  have  the  owner  of  the 


.dhyGooc^le 


materials  used  in  that  ■work  present,  would  be  sticng  pro- 
Bumptive  proof  of  negligence  or  dishonesty.  The  princi- 
ple is  pernicious  from  beginning  to  end,  and  should  not  he 
tolerated  for  an  instant. 

It  gives  me  pleasure  to  state  here,  that  I  knoAV  nothing 
peraonaily  of  this  curious  reversal  of  the  rights  of  employer 
and  domestic.  I  am  inclined  to  believe,  if  one-half  1  hear 
of  other  housewives'  trials  be  true,  that  I  have  been  highly 
favored  among  American  women.  My  authority  in  the 
kitchen,  as  in  other  parts  of  the  household,  has  never  been 
disputed — in  lay  heaiing  or  presence,  that  is.  I  liavo 
always  met- with  a  cheerful  reception  below-stairs  when  I 
appeared  there  to  direct  or  share  the  labors  of  my  cooks ; 
have  found  them  willing  to  undertake  new  dishes,  and 
ready  to  learn  my  "way,"  however  unlike  it  might  be  to 
their  own.  As  a  rule,  also,- — to  which  the  exceptions  have 
been  few  and  very  far  between, — those  employed  by  me 
have  been  cleanly,  industrious,  kind-hearted,  and  respect- 
ful; patient  under  inconveniences,  and  attentive  in  sick- 
ness.  I  should  not,  therefore,  do  my  duty,  did  I  not  lift 
my  voice  in  a  plea  for  charitable  judgment,  just  and  gen- 
erous treatment  of  a  class  which,  however  faulty,  have 
much  to  do  and  to  endure.  Mrs,  Skinflint's  grocer's  ac- 
count may  be  less  thaa  yours,  if  you  adopt  this  policy — 
Mrs.  Sharp's  coal-cellar  be  better  dusted,  and  the  paiut  in 
her  attic  scrubbed  oftener ;  but  T  believe,  in  the  long  run, 
you  will  be  the  most  comfortable  in  body  as  in  conscience. 
Your  machinery  will  move  with  fewer  jerks  and  less  fric- 
tion. Your  servants  will  remain  with  you  longer,  an«3» 
better- tempered  while  they  stay,  if  you  show  that  you  ap 
predate  the  feet  of  a  common  humanity  ;  that  you  owe 
them  duties  you  are  resolved  to  fulfil  during  their  sojourn 
under  your  roof,  however  mercenary  may  be  their  j-erfomi 
anee  of  ihose  devolving  upon  t'aem. 


;dhyGoogle 


PDDDraog.  3gg 

Finally,  dear  sister,  do  not  add  to  the  real  miseries  of 
life  by  regarding  the  annoyance  of  a  careless,  slothful  or 
impertinent  domestic  as  a  real  t]-ouble.  Class  it  with  potty 
lexations  which  are  yet  curable  as  well  as  endurable,  and 
live  above  it— a  noble,  beneficent  existence  in  the  love  of 
your  fellow-creatures  and  the  fear  of  God— a  life  that  can 
not  suffer  perceptible  disturbance  from  such  a  contemptible 
^  rootlet  of  bitterness  as  this.  It  is  only  the  feeble,  the 
inefficient,  or  the  indolent  mistress  whose  peace  of  mind  is 
dependent  upon  such  casualties  as  a  breeze,  a  hurricane,  or 
a  sudden  vacancy  in  the  department  of  the  interior. 

^  Recollect,  when  the  infliction  is  sliarpest,  that  brier- 
pricks  are  disagreeable,  but  never  serious,  unless  the  blood 
bo  jjery  impure. 


PUDDINGS. 

I  have,  for  convenience  saJre,  classed  among  pies  all 
preparations  baked  in  crust  in  a  pie-dish.  Many  of  these, 
however,  are  called  puddings,  such  as  custards  of  various 
kmda,  lemon,  cocoa-nut,  and  orange  puddings.  The  reader 
win  have  no  trouble  in  finding  the  receipts  foj  these,  if  she 
will  bear  the  above  remark  in  mind. 


Baked  Puddings. 

Beat  your  eggs  very  light— and,  if  you  put  in  only  on« 
or  two,  whip  white  and  yolk  separately,  beating  the  latter 
'■•■the  sugar  before  adding  the  whites. 

Friiit,  rice,  corn-starch,  and  bread  pud  din ja  require  a 
steady,  moderate  oven  in  baking.  C\istard  and  batter  pud- 
dings should  be  put  into  the  dish,  and  this  into  the  oven, 
the  instant  they  are  mixed,  and  baked  quickly.  JVo  piid- 
dingj  unless  it  be  raised  with  yeast,  should  be  allowed  t<i 


.yGooc^le 


484  COMMON   BEN8E. 

Btaad  oat  of  tte  oven  after  tlie  ingredients  are  put  together. 
Give  one  final  iiard  stir  just  before  it  goes  in,  and  be  sure 
the  mould  ia  wel!  greased. 

Apple  MeiiiNGUE  Pudding, 
1  pint  stewed  apples. 
3  e^s— white  and  yolk  separate. 

j-  cup  white  sugar,  and  one  teaspoonful  butter.  .    . 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg  aud  cinnamon  mixed, 
1  "  essence  bitter  abaond  (for  tlie  meringue). 

Sweeten  and  spice,  and,  while  the  apple  is  still  very 
hot,  stir  in  the  butter,  and,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  jolka. 
Beat  all  light,  pour  into  a  buttered  diah,  and  bake  ten  min- 
utes. Cover,  without  drawing  from  the  oven,  with  a  me- 
ringue made  of  the  beaten  whites,  two  tablespoonfuls  white 
sugar,  and  the  bitter  almond  seasoning.  Spread  smoothly 
and  quickly,  close  the  oven  again,  and  brown  very  slightly. 

Eat  cold,  with  white  sugar  sifted  over  the  top,  and  send 
wound  cream  to  pour  over  it  instead  of  sauce. 

Baked  Apple  Puddino, 
6  large  firm  pippins  (grated).  , 
3  tablespoonfuls  hutt-er, 
4.  cup  sugar. 

i  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separate. 
Juice  of  one  lemon,  and  half  tlie  peel. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  croam,  stir  in  the  yolks,'^Ure 
kmon,  th^pjited  apple,  lastly  the  whites.  Grate  nutmeg 
STW  the  top,  and  hake  until  nicely  browned, 

Eftt  cold  with  cream. 


.dhyGoogle 


baked  puddings.  s8j 

Sweet  Apple  Pudding.  •{« 
1  quart  milk. 
4  eggs. 

3  cups  chopped  apple, 
1  lemon— all  tlie  juice  and  Iialf  the  rind. 
Kntmeg  and  cinnamon. 

i  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  vinegar. 
Flour  for  a  stiff  batter. 

Beat  the  yolks  very  light,  add  the  milk,  seasoning,  and 
flour.  Stir  hard  five  minutes,  and  beat  ia  the  apple,  then 
the  whites,  lastly  the  soda,  well  mixed  in. 

Bake  in  two  equai-e  shallow  pans  one  hour,  and  eat 
hot,  with  sweet  sauce.  Much  of  Vlie  suecess  of  tliis  pudding 
depends  upon  the  mixing— almost  as  much  upon  the  baking. 
Cover  with  paper  when  half  done,  to  prevent  hai-dening. 

PiPPIK    PuDDINO.  tjt 

8  fine  pippins,  pared,  cored,  and  sliced,  breakiag  them 

aa  little  as  possible, 
j  cup  very  fine  bread-crumbs. 
2  teaspoonfuls  butter- — melted. 
6  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separate. 

1  oz,  citron,  shred  finely. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  a  dozen  wLtle  cloves, 

1  cup  milk  or  cream. 
Soak  the  bread-crumhs  in  the  milk,  cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  and  beat  into  this  the  yolks.  Nex^adding  the 
mUk  and  soaked  bread,  stir  until  very  smootPand  light. 
Put  in  the  nutmeg  and  citron,  and  whip  in  the  whites 
lightly.  Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  in  your  sliced  apple, 
sprinkling  each  pifce  well   witJi   sugar,  and   scattering  tbs 


.dhyGoogle 


je  COMMON   HEHSB. 

ovea  among  them.     Pour  the  custard  you  have 
TCT  them,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  top,  and  eat  cold. 

BitowN  Betty.  »{« 

1  cup  bread-cnimbs. 

2  cups  chopped  apples — tart. 
^  cup  sugar. 


3  butter  cut  into  small  bits. 

Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  a  layer  of  the  chopped 
apple  at  the  bottom;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  a  few  bits  of 
butter,  and  cumamon ;  cover  with  bread-crumbs ;  then  iaoro 
apple.  Proceed  in  this  order  until  the  dish  is  full,  having 
a  layer  of  crumbs  at  top.  Cover  closely,  and  steam  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven ;  then  uncover  and 
brown  quickly. 

Eat  warm  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  sweet  sauce. 

This  is  a  homely  but  very  good  pudding,  especially  for 
the  children's  table.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is 
baked. 

Apple  Batter  Puddino, 

1  pint  rich  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 
4  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  salt, 

J  "  Boda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Peel  and  core  eight  apples  carefully,  and  range  them  close- 
ly together"!*!  a  deep  dish.  Beat  the  batter  very  light  and 
pour  over  them.  Unless  the  apples  are  veiy  ripe  and  sweet 
(for  tart  apples),  fill  the  centre  of  each  with  white  sugar, 
^ake  an  hour,  and  eat  hot  with  sweet  sauce. 


.dhyGoogle 


BAKED   PUDDIHGS. 


Apple  abd  Pluji  Pudi>inq. 


I  lb.  fine  tart  apples,  pared  and  chopped. 

I  "  sugar. 

I  "  flour. 

i  "  beef  suet,  rubbed  fine. 

I   "  raiams,  seeded  and  6. 


I  teaspoonfu!  nutmeg  and  tlie  same  powdered  cloves. 

1  "  salt. 

i  glass  brown  sberry  and  the  same  of  brandy. 

Stir  the  beaten  yolka  and  sugar  very  light,  add  the  suet 
»nd  apples  with  the  spice j, then  the  raisins,  well  dredged 
with  flour ;  next  the  flour,  '-and,  when  this  is  all  in,  the 
liquor;  lastly,  the  whites  beaten  very  stiff.  Bake  in  two 
buttered  moulds,  in  a  moderate  oven,  an  liour  and  a  half  al 
least.     Eat  hot,  with  sauce. 

Yon  may  boil  this  pudding  if  you  like. 

Apple  add  Tapioca  Pudding.  •{• 
1  teacupful  tapioca. 
6  apples— juicy  and  well-flavored  pippins — pared  and 

1  quart  water. 

I  teaspoonful  salt. 

Cover  the  tapioca  with  thi'ee  cups  of  lukewarm  water 
and  (.et  it  in  a  tolerably  warm  place  to  soak  five  or  sis 
hours,  stirring  now  and  then.  Pack  your  apples  ia  a  deep 
dish,  adding  a  cup  of  lukewarm  water ;  cover  cluiely  and 
steam  in  a  moderate  oven  until  soft  all  through,  turning 
them  as  they  cook  at  bottom.  If  the  dish  is  more  than  a 
third  full  of  liquid,  turn  some  of  it  out  before  you  pour  the 
soaked  tapioca  over  ail.    Unless  your  apples  are  Vfiry  sweet, 


.dhyGoogle 


388  COMMON   SENSE. 

fill  the  centre  with  sugar  and  stick  a  clove  in  eacK,  jnst  h» 
fore  you  cover  with  the  tapioca*  Indeed,  I  always  do  this, 
It  eoftena  the  hard  acid  of  the  fruit.  Bako,  after  tlie  tajiic- 
CO  goes  in,  one  hour. 

Eat  warm,  with  sweet  hard  sauce. 

Baked  Apple  riuMPLiKCS.  ■{■ 

1  quart  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  lard — or  half  butter  is  better, 

2  cups  of  milk, 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  "  cream-lkrtar  sifted  into  the  dry  flour. 
1  saltepooaful  salt.    « 

Chop  the  shortening  into  the  flour  after  you  have  sifted 
this  and  the  cream-tartar  together ;  put  in  the  soda  and  wet 
up  quickly — just  stiff  enough  to  roll  into  a  paste  less  than 
half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into  squares,  and  lay  in  the  centre 
of  each  a  juicy,  tart  apple,  pared  and  cored;  bring  the  cor- 
ners of  the  square  neatly  together  and  pmch  them  slightly. 
Lay  in  a  buttei-ed  baking-pan,  the  joined  edges  downward, 
and  bake  to  a  fine  brown.  When  done,  brush  over  with 
beaten  eg^,  and  set  back  in  the  o^  en  to  glaze  for  two  or 
three  minutes.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them,  and  eafc  hot 
with  rich  sweet  sauce. 

I  greatly  prefer  the  above  simple  crust  for  all  kinds  of 
dumplings,  to  the  rich  paste  whicli  becomes  heavy  so  soon 
ds  it  begins  to  cool.  It  ia  also  more  quickly  and  easdy  made, 
tad  far  more  wholesome  than  pastry. 

Taiioca  Puddikg.  »J« 
1  cup  tapioca. 
1  quarf  milk, 
6  pggr.-— whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 


;dhyGoogle 


BAKED  ptTDDmoe.  8S9 

2  talilespoonfuls  butter,  melted. 

2  "  sugar. 

Soak  tlio  tapioca,  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  i(,  two 
lionra ;  drain  off  the  water,  if  it  be  not  all  absorbed ;  soak 
two  houra  longer  iu  the  milk,  which  should  be  slightly 
warmed.  When  the  tapioca  is  quite  soft,  beat  the  sugai 
and  butter  together;  add  the  yolks,  tho  milk  and  tapioca, 
lastly  tlie  whites.  Stir  very  well,  and  bake  in  a  buttered 
dish.     Eat  warm  with  aweet  sauce. 

You  may  make  a  sago  pudding  in  the  same  way. 

Corn-Stabch  Pudding,  ^ 
4  tablespoonfuls  com-starch. 
I  quart  milk. 
4  eggs — whitfis  and  yolks  separate. 

Niitmeg  and  cinnamon. 

1  tahlespoonful  butt«r. 
Dissolve  the  corn-starch  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  having 
heated  the  rest  of  the  milk  to  toiling,  stir  this  in  ani^  boil 
tliree  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Remove  from  t!if  lire, 
and  while  still  very  hot,  put  iu  tho  butter.  Set  away  until 
cold ;  beat  the  eggs  very  light — the  sugar  and  seasoning  with 
them,  and  stir  into  the  corn-starch,  beating  thoroughly  to  a 
smooth  custard.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  hall 
an  hour.     Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  over  it. 

CollN-STAKCn  MfiBINGDB.  •{< 

4  eggs. 

1  quart  of  milJi. 

J  cup  sugar. 

4  teaspoonfuls  corn-starch. 

J  eup  fniit-jeUy  or  jam. 


.dhyGoogle 


390  COMMON   SBKSE 

Ileat  the  milk  to  boiling,  arid  stir  La  the  com-atarcli, 
wliich  haa  previously  been  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk. 
Boil  fifteen  miiixit^'S,  stirring  all  the  while.  Eemove  from 
tie  fire,  and  while  still  hot,  add  gradually  the  yolks  of  the 
Bggs  beaten  up  with  the  sugar  and  seasoned  with  vanilla, 
lemon,  or  bitter  almond.  Pour  this  into  a  buttered  pud- 
ding-dish and  bake  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  custard 
begins  to  "  set."  Without  withdrawing  it  further  than 
the  door  of  the  oven,  spread  lightly  and  quickly  upon  this 
a  meringue  of  the  whites  whipped  up  stiff  with  a  half-cnp 
jeUy — add  gradually.  Use  crab-apple  jelly,  if  bitter  almond 
has  been  put  into  the  custard;  currant,  for  vaniila;  straw- 
berry or  other  sweet  conserve,  if  you  season  the  custard 
with  lemon.  Bake,  covered,  for  five  minutes.  Then  re- 
move the  lid,  and  brown  the  meringue  very  slightly. 

Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  thickly  Over  the 
top. 

Akrow-koot  Pudding 

la  made   according   to  either  of  the  foregoing   receipts, 
substituting  arrow-root  for  corn-starch.      Parina  puddings 

Beead  Pudding.  ^ 

1  quart  of  milk. 

2  cups  of  fine  bread-crumbs— o^ays  stale  and  dry. 
4  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

Nutmeg  to  taste. 

J  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Beat  the  yolks  very  light,  and  having  soaked  the  bread- 
crumbs well  in  tlie  milk,  stir  these  together ;  then  the  butter 
and  seasoning,  with  the  soda;  lastly  the  whites.  Bake  to  a 
fine  brown,  and  eat  hot  with  pudding-sauce. 

This,  if  well  mixed  and  baked,  is  quite  a  different  dish 


.dhyGoogle 


BAKED   PUDDINGS.  391 

from  Ilia  traditional  and  miich-despised  bread-pudding 
of  siingy  housokeopers  and  boarding-house  landladies. 
"Which,"  saya  an  English  Josh,  Billings,  "nothing  can 
be  more  promiskus  than  a  boarding-house  bread-pudding." 
Try  mine  instead,  putting  all  the  sugar  into  tlie  sauce,  and 
enough  there,  and  you  will  cease  to  anecr. 

You  may  boil  this  pudding,  if  you  like,  in  a  floureil 
doth  or  buttered  mould. 

Fruit  Bread  Pctdding.  4" 

1  quart  milk. 
6  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter, 

2  "  (heaping)  sugar. 

^  ib,  raiiuns,  seeded  and  chojiped. 

^   "    currants,  well  washed  and  picked  over. 

Handful  of  shred   citron,  aud  I  teaspoonful   soda  dis- 
solved in  hot  water. 

2  scant  cupa  fine  bread-crumbs,  from  a  stale  loaf. 
Beat  the  yolks  light  with  the  sugar,  add  the  bread- 
crumbs -nrhen  they  have  boon  -well  soaked  in  the  milk,  and 
stir  until  smooth.  Next  put  in  the  fruit  well  dredged  with 
flour,  the  soda,  and  finally  the  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff 
frotb. 

This  \rill  require  longer  and  steadier  baking  than  if  the 
fruit  .were  not  in.  Cover  it  if  it  threatens  to  harden  too 
soon  on  top.  Send  to  table  hot  in  the  diiih  in  which  itwaa 
baked,  or  turn  out  very  carefully  upon  a  hot  plate.     Eat 

Bkeai>-ani>-B  UTTER  Pudding. 
4e^. 
3  cups  milk. 


.dhyGoogle 


0»2  COMMOH   BEHSB. 

5  cup  sugar. 

Vatiilla  or  oilier  estract. 
Nutmeg  to  taste. 
Lrcid  auc!  butter. 

Cut  thm  6li  rs  of  bread  (atalo),  spread  thickly  with 
butter,  and  spiiikle  witli  sugar.  Tit  tlie-m  neatly  and 
closely  mto  a  buttered  pudding-dish  until  it  is  balf  fiiU. 
Lay  a  '.n  all,  be'ivT  i  late  upoa  them  to  prevent  them  from 
floating,  and  saturate  them  gradually  with  a  hot  custard 
made  of  the  milk  heated  almost  to  boiling,  then  taken  from 
the  fire,  and  tlie  beaten  e^s  and  sugar  stirred  in.  with  the 
seasoning.  Let  the  bread  soak  in  this  fifteen  minutes  or 
BO,  adding  by  degrees  all  the  custard.  Just  before  you  put 
tJie  pudding  in  the  oven,  take  up  the  plate  gently.  If  the 
bread  still  rise  to  the  top,  keep  down  with  a  silver  fork  or 
spoon,  laid  upon  it  from  the  side  of  the  dish,  until  the  cua- 
tard  thickens,  when  slip  it  out.     Eat  cold, 

Bbeap-akii-si4emalai>b  Puddino  i^ 
Is  made  precisely  as  above,  except  that  each  slice  is  spread 
with  marmalade  or  jam  besides  the  butter. 
Either  of  these  puddings  is  good  boiled. 

Alice's  Puddino.  ■{■ 
1  quart  of  milk, 

1  cup  very  fine  dry  bread-crumbs. 
i    "    strawberry  or  other  sweet  jam. 
■J-    "    sugar. 

Butter  a  pudding-dish ;  sprinkle  the  bottom  with  bread- 
crumbs; pour  over  these  half  a  cup  jam,  and  cover  this 
well  with  the  rest  of  the  crumbs,  wet  with  a  very  littla 
milk.     Heat  the  quart  of  milk  until  near  boiling,  take  it 


.dhyGoogle 


S93 

from  the  fire  and  add,  gradually,  the  beaten  yolks  and 
sugar,  Btirriiig  in.  the  beaten  ■whites  lightly  at  the  last. 
Heat  this  by  degrees,  stirring  constantly  until  it  begins  to 
thicken;  put  it,  spoonful  by  spoonful,  upon  the  layer  of 
bread-crumbs,  taking  care  not  to  disturb  these,  and  -wher 
all  is  in,  bake  until  well  "  set "  and  very  slightly  browned 
Eat  cold.     Cream  ia  a  delicious  accompaniment  to  it. 

The  Queen  op  Puddings.  •{• 

1^  cup  ■white  sugar. 

2  cups  fine  dry  bread-crumbs. 

6  egg.. 

1  tablespoonfol  of  b^utter. 

Van  ilia,  rose-water,  or  lemon  seasoning, 

1  quart  fresh  rich  milk,  and  one  half  cup  jelly  or  jam. 

Euh  the  butter  into  a  cup  of  sugar ;  heat  the  yolks  veiy 
light,  and  stir  these  together  to  a  cream.  The  bread-crumbs, 
soaked  inmilk,  come  next,  then  the  seasoning.  Bate  this 
in  a  buttered  pudding-dish — a  large  one  and  but  t^wo-thirds 
fidl — until  the  custar*  is  "  set."  Draw  to  the  mouth  of 
the  oven,  spread  over  ■with  jam  or  other  nice  fruit-conserve. 
Cover  this  ■with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whipped  ■whites 
and  haJf  a  cup  of  sugar.  Shut  the  oven  and  bake  until  the 
meringue  begins  to  color. 

Eat  cold,  -with  cream. ' 

You  may,  in  strawberry  season,  suhstitute  the  fresli 
fi^t  for  preserves.     It  is  then  truly  delightful. 

Crackeb  Puddikq.  ^ 
1  quart  milk. 

1  cup  powdered  cracker 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

J  teaspoonful  soda — dissolved  in  boiling  water. 


.dhyGoogle 


394  OOMMON  BENSE. 

Heat  tLe  milt  slightly,  and  pouring  it  over  the  crackef 
let  them  sfand  together  fifteen  minutes.  Stir  into  this  first 
the  heaten  yolks,  then  the  butter  and  soda ;  beat  all  smooth 
and  add  the  whipped  whites. 

Eat  hot,  with  pudding-sauce. 

DoKOHBSTEB  Cracker  Plum  Poddino. 

3  quarts  milk. 

6  Boston  crackers — split  and  buttered. 

8  eggs — heaten  Tery  light. 

2  cups  sugar.     Nutmeg,  cloves,  and  cinnamon  to  tastfl. 

1  teaspoonfid  of  salt, 

1  lb.  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  two. 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  eggs,  and  sugar,  seasoned 
with  the  spices,  by  heating  the  milk  almost  to  boiling,  then 
tiiking  it  from  the  fire  and  adding  gradually  the  yolks, 
sugar,  seasoning,  and  whites.  Do  not  boil  it  again.  Butt«r 
B  pudding-dish ;  put  a  layer  of  crackers  in  the  bottom, 
moistening  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  hot  custard.  Oa 
this  lay  some  of  the  raisins — a  thick  stratum;  cover  with 
crackers— the  buttered  side  downward;  moisten  with  the 
custard,  and  proceed  in  this  order  until  your  crackers  and 
fruit  are  used  up.  Pour  in  custard  until  only  the  top  of 
the  upper  layer  is  visible,  but  not  enough  to  float  them ; 
cover  closely  and  set  in  the  cellar  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing add  the  rest  of  the  custard,  at  intervals  of  five  or  six 
minutes  between  the  cupfuls. 

Bake  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cover  with  piper 
if  it  should  seem  likely  to  harden  too  fast. 

Eat  hot,  with  sauce. 

Crackeb  Suet  Pitddino.  •$• 
J  lb.  beef  suet,  freed  from  strings,  and  powdered, 
1  cup  fine  cracker-crumbs. 


.dhyGoogle 


BAKED   PUDDIHfla.  oVO 

2  tablespoonfula  sugar. 

3  cups  milk:. 
I'mch  of  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar;  add  to  these  the  milk 
in  which  tlie  cracker  has  been  soaked  for  half  an  hour; 
work  into  a  smooth  paste  before  putting  iu  the  suet  and 
soda.  Whip  the  whites  in  last,  and  bake  nearly,  if  not 
quite  an  hour.  Cover,  should  tlie  crust  form  too  rapidly, 
Eat  hot,  with  wine  sauce. 

You  may  also  steam  or  boil  this  pudding. 

Tbuit  Ckackeb  Pudding. 
1  cup  powdered  cracker  soaked  in  one  pint  of  milk. 
J  lb.  beef  suet,  cleared  from,  strings  and  powdered, 
■^  "  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  two. 
J   "   currants,  waslied  and  dried. 
3  oz.  almonds. 

i  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  same  of  cinnamon.  Rosa- 
water  to  taste. 

Blanch  the  almonds  and  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  into  thin 
shavings.  Beat  the  yolks  with  the.  sugar  until  Hght  and 
thick ;  mix  in  the  cracker  and  milk ;  the  suet  and  the  fruit, 
well  dredged ;  the  spice  and  rose-water ;  then  the  whipped 
whites,  finally  the  almonds. 

Bake  in  a  buttered  mould  one  hour  and  a  half.  Turn 
out  and  eat  with  wine  sauce. 

Or, 
Boil  in  a  well-buttered  mould.     In  this  case,  blanch,  but  de 


H..k.d.yGoogle 


396  CMJMMOIT   SENSE. 

not  cat  the  almonds,  and  do  not  stone  tlie  raisins.  Butter 
the  mould  so  thickly  that  you  can  stick  the  almonds  to  the 
sides  in  regular  rows,  alternately  with  rows  of  wholo  raisins. 
Put  in  the  mixture  gently,  not  to  disturb  these ;  cover  tha 
mould  and  boil  or  steam  three  hours.  Treated  iathia  rra.y, 
it  makes  a  pretty-looking  pudding.  It  is  palatable  in  any 
shape. 

Cbacker  akd  Jam  Pdddiko. 

3  eggs. 

^  cup  cracker-crumbs, 

J  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter, 

1  teacup  nxilk. 

■J  lemon — juice  and  grated  rind. 

3  tablespooufiils  j  am. 
Soak  the  cracker  in  the  milk ;  rub  the  butter  and  Buga* 
together,  adding  the  lemon,  and  beating  to  a  cream;  then 
Btir  in  the  beaten  yolka  ;  next  the  cracker  and  milk ;  lastly, 
the  whites.  Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  the  jam,  which 
jshould  be  pretty  stiff,  at  the  bottom.  Fill  up  with  tlio  mi*. 
ture,  and  bake  about  half  an  hour. 

Eat  cold,  with  sugar  sifted  over  the  top. 

RicB  Pudding  {Plain).  •{• 

1  coffee-cup  rice, 

2  quarts  milk. 

8  tahlespoonfuls  sugar. 
1  teaspoon ful  salt. 
Butter  the  size  of  an  egg — melted. 
Nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 
Wasb  and  pick  over  the  rice,  and  soak  in  one  pint  of 
th«  milk  two  hours.     Then  add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  th« 


.dhyGoogle 


Biigar,  salt,  butter,  and  spice.     Bake  two  hours,  and  eat 
ccld. 

Rice  and  Tapioca  Pudoino. 

i    "  tapioca. 

f    "  sugar. 

3  pints  milk. 

Cinnamon  to  taste. 
Soak  the  taj}ioca  in  a  cup  of  the  milk  three  hours ;  wash 
the  lice  in  several  waters,  and  soak  in  another  cup  of  milk 
as  long  as  you  do  the  tapioca.  Sweeten  the  remaining 
quart  of  milk  ;  put  aU  the  ingredients  together,  and  bake 
two  hours  in  a  slow  oven.     Eat  cold. 

Hice  Pudmsg  with  Eggs.  ■{. 

1  quart  milk. 

i  eggs. 

i  c"P  "^'ce. 

i    "    sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Handful  of  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  two. 
Soak  the  rice  in  a  pint  of  tbe  milk  an  hour,  then  set  the 
saucepan  containing  it  wHere  it  will  slowly  heat  to  a  boil. 
Boil  five  Hunutes;  remove  and  let  it  cool.  Beat  the  yolks, 
add  the  sugar  and  butter,  the  rice  and  the  milk  in  wliich  it 
was  cooked,  with  the  pint  of  unboiled ;  the  beaten  whites, 
and  finally  the  raisins.  Grate  nutmeg  on  the  top,  and  bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  the  custard  is  woU  set 
ind  of  a  light  bi-ovm.     Eat  cold. 

Eice-Floue  Pdddikq 
2  quarts  of  milk. 
i  lb.  rioe-fiour. 


.dhyGoogle 


]  CTip  sugar. 

6  eggs. 

1  tableapoonful  butter. 

1  small  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  rose-water. 

1  lemon — juice  of  tke  whole,  and  half  the  grated  rind, 
Ueat  tlie  milk  to  a  boil,  and  stir  in  the  rice-flour  wet 
to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk;  boU  until  well 
thickened,  stin'ing  all  tlio  time.  Take  from  the  fire,  and 
while  stm  hot  stir  ia  the  butter,  the  yolks  beaten  light  -with 
the  sugar,  the  lemon,  nutmeg,  and  the  whites  of  three  e^s. 
Mix  well,  and  bake  ia  a  buttered  dish  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  Just  before  you  take  it  up,  draw  to  the  mouth  of 
the  oven  and  cover  with  a  meringue  of  the  remaining  whites, 
beaten  stiff  with  two  tableapoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  and 
flavored  with  vanilla  or  rose-water.  Bake  until  the  m6ria- 
gue  begins  to  brown.     Sift  sugar  on  the  top  and  eat  cold. 

Batter  Pudding.  iJ* 

1  pint  of  milk. 

4,  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

2  even  cups  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  pinch  of  soda. 

Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  three-quarters  of  an  Lour. 
Serve  in  the  pudding-disli  as  soon  aa  it  ia  drawn  from  the 
oven,  and  eat  with  rich  sauce. 

Or 

You  may  boil  it  in  a  buttered  mould  or  floured  bag,  flour- 
ing it  very  thickly.  Boil  two  hours,  taking  care  the  boiling 
does  not  cease  for  a  moment  until  the  pudding  ia  done. 


.dhyGoogle 


Eatteb  Pudding  (JVo.  2). 

1  quart  miik. 

10  table  spoonfuls  flour. 

7  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  ealt, 

i  "  soda,  dissolvetl  in  hot  water. 

1  "  cream-tartar,  sifted  into  tlie  flour, 

Wet  the  flour  gradually  with  the  milk  to  a  very  smooth 
jiaste;  next  add  the  beatea  yolks,  then  the  salt  and  sodaj 
lastly  the  whites,  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bate  in  a  but- 
tered dish  for  an  Lour,  and  serve  at  once.     Eat  hot,  with 

If  you  boil  it,  leave  plenty  of  room  to  swell  in  the  bag, 
and  boil  two  hours. 

Cottage  Pudding.  •{< 
1  cup  of  sugar, 

1  tablespoonfttl  of  butter, 

2  eggs. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  cupa  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  tolerably  stifi-  hatter. 
^  tea«pooiiful  of  soda. 

1  "  ci-cam-tartar,  sifted  with  the  flour. 

I  "  salt. 

Pub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  beat  in  the  yolka, 
Chen  the  milk  and  soda,  the  salt,  and  the  beaten  whites,  al- 
ternately  with  the  flour.  Bake  in  a  buttered  mould;  t'urn 
out  upon  a  dish;  cut  in  slices,  and  eat  with  liquid  sauce. 

Tbii  is  a  simple  but  very  nice  pudding. 


.dhyGoogle 


too  COMMON   BBN8E. 

Gebjian  Puffs.  »J« 

3  cups  flotir. 

3    "      milk. 

3  eggs — wliites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very 
■  liglit. 

3  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter, 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

Pour  in  nine  well-buttered  cupa  of  same  size  as  tliat 
used  for  measuring,  and  bake  to  a  fine  brown.  Eat  as  soon 
as  done,  with,  sauce. 

Clip   PUDDIKGS. 

The  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sngar  and  in  flotir. 

Half  tbeir  weight  in  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

J  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Hub  the  sugar  and  butter  together;  beat  the  yolks  light 

and  add  then  the  imlk  and  soda ;  lastly  the  flour  and  beaten 

whites  alternately.     Fill  six  small  cups,  well  buttered,  and 

bake  twenty  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  brown.     Eat  warm. 

Lemon  Pudding.  iJ* 

1  cup  of  sugar, 
4  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  com-starch, 

3  lemons — juice  of  both  and  rind  of  one. 
1  pint  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Heat  tlio  milk  to  boiling,  and  stb  in  the  corn-staroh, 

wet  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cold  water.     Boil  five  minutes, 

stirring  constantly.    While  hot  mix  in  the  butter  and  set  it 

away  to  cool.  Beat  the  yolks  light,  and  add  the  sugar,  mii 


.dhyGoogle 


BAKED   PDDDmoS.  40] 

ing  very  thoroughly  before  putting  in  tlie  lemon-jiticd  and 
grated  rind.  Beat  this  to  a  stiff  cream  and  add  gradually 
to  the  corn-starch  milk,  when  tho  latter  ia  cold.  Stir  alJ 
«mooth,  pnt  in  a  buttered  dish,  and  hake.     Eat  cold, 

LEjroK  M^HIKCUE  PuDDiKG  (verynice). 

1  qirart  milk. 

2  cups  bread-crumbs. 

4  efes.  -       ^ 

J  cup  butter. 
1  cup.^hite  sugar. 
.    1  large  lemon—juiceaiid  half  the  rind,  grated. 
S<^  the  bread  in  the  milk ;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  with 
the  b^ter  and  sugar  mbbed  to  a  cream,  also  the. lemon. 
Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  until  firm  aud  shghtly  brown.  Draw 
to  the  door  of  the  oren  anil  cover  with  a  meringue  of  the 
whites  whipped  to  a  froth  vnth  three  tablespoonfuls  of  pew- 
dered  sugar,  and  a  little  lemori-juice.     Brown  very  slightly  j 
aift  powdered  sugar  over  it,  and  eat  cold. 

You  may  male  an  orange  pudding  in  the  same  way. 

Coco  AN  UT   PUDOISG. 

^  lb.  grated  cocoanut. 
^  cup  stale  sponge  cake,  crumbed  fine. 
1  cup  sugar. 

1  lai-ffe  cup  lich  milk — cream,  if  you  can  get  it. 
6  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla,  or  rose-water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  aniadd  the  beaten  yolks. 
When  these  are  well  mixed,  put  in  the  cocoanut ;  stio^vell 
before  adding  the  milk,  cake-crumbs,  flavoring  ;  and  lastly, 
the  whites  of  three  eggs.  Whip  the  other  whites  stiff  with 
three  tablespooufula  of  powdered  sugar ;  flavor  with  vanilla, 


H...k,i.,.Google 


403  COMMON   SEtJBE. 

and  just  before  taking  the  pudding  from  the  oven,  spread 
oliia  meriiigne  ovev  the  top,  and  close  tlie  oven  until  the 
icing  ia  slightly  browned. 

Bake  in  all  tliree-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Orasge  Marmalade  Puddihg. 
1  cup  fine  bread-crumbs. 
^    "     Bugar. 

1  "     milk  or  cream. 
4e^s. 

2  teaspoonfuls  butter. 

1  cup  orange  or  other  sweet  marmalade. 

Hub  the  butter  and  sugw  together ;  add  the  yolks  well 
beaten,  the  nulk,  bread-crumbs,  and  the  whites  whipped  to 
&  froth.  I'ut  a  layer  of  tliis  iu  the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered 
mould,  spread  thickly  with  some  pretty  stiff  marmalade — 
orange  ia  nicest — ^then  another  layer  of  the  mixture,  and  so 
on  until  the  mould  is  full,  having  the  custard  mixture  at 
top.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  an  hour,  turn  out  of 
the  mould  upon  a  dish  and  servo,  with  sweetened  cream  or 
(ustafd. 

JIacaroni  Pudding.  «J« 
1  cup  macaroni  broken  into  inch 


^  lemon — -juice  and  grated  peel. 
2  tablespoonfuls  butter, 
|-  cup  sugar. 


Simmer  the  macaroni  in  half  the  milk  until  tender, 
WhOe  hot  stir  in  the  butter,  the  yolks,  well  beaten  up  with 
the  sugar,  the  lemon,  and  lastly  the  whipped  whites.     Bake 


.dhyGoogle 


BAKED    PtTDDraQB. 

403 

[n  a  buttered  mould  about  half  an  hour. 

or  untU 

DicdT 

broivaed. 

Verjiicelli  Pudding 

Kay  be  made  according  to  tbe  foregoing  receipt. 

Neapolitan  Puddikg, — ( Very  fine.)  4« 
I  large  cup  iine  bread-crumba  soaked  in  milk. 
J  cup  sugar. 

I  lemon — ^juice  and  grated  rind. 
6  egga. 

4"  lb.  stole  Bponge-cake. 
^  "   macaroons — almond. 
■J-  cup  jelly  or  jam,  and  one  small  tumbler  of  sbeny 

^  cup  milk  poni-ed  upon  the  bread-crumbs. 
1  tablespoonftil  melted  butter. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  put  tbe  beaten 
J  /Ika  in  next ;  then  the  soaked  bread-erumlis,  tbe  lemon, 
juice,  and  rind,  and  beat  to  a  smooth,  light  paste  before 
adding  tbe  whites.  Butter  your  mould  very  ■well,  and  put 
m  tbe  bottom  a  light  layer  of  dry  bread-crumbs ;  upon  thia 
one  of  macaroons,  laid  OYcnly  and  closely  togetber.  Wet 
tbeae  witb  wine,  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  the  mixture ;  tben 
with  slices  of  sponge-cake,  spread  thickly  with  jelly  or  jam ; 
next  macaroons,  wet  with  wine,  more  custard,  S]>onge-cake, 
and  jam,  and  so  on  until  the  mould  is  full,  putting  a  layer 
of  tbe  mixture  at  the  top.  Cover  closely,  and  steam  in  the 
oven  three-quarters  of  aa  hour;  then  remove  tbe  cover  to 
brown  tbe  top.  Turn  out  carefully  into  &  disb,  and  pou? 
over  it  a  sauce  made  of  currant  jelly  warmed,  and  beaten 
up  witb  two  tablespoonfula  melted  butter  and  a  glass  of 
pale  sherry, 

A  plain  round  mould  is  best  for  the  pudding,  as  mueli 


.dhyGoogle 


of  its  comeliness  depends  upon  the  maimer  iu  wliict  thn 
cake  and  macaroons  are  fitted  in. 

It  is  a  pretty  and  good  pudding,  and  will  veQ  repay 
the  trifling  trouble  and  care  required  to  manage  it  properly, 

It  is  also  uioe  boiled  iu  a  buttered  mould. 

linuB.iiiD  Pudding. 

Prepare  tlia  stalks  m,  foi  pies;  cover  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  pudding-dish  Tvith  sliucs  of  bread  and  butter; 
cover  with  the  rhubarb  cut  into  short  pieces ;  sprinkle 
abundantly  ^(•ith  sugar ,  then  put  on  another  layer  of  bread 
and  butter,  and  so  on  until  your  dish  is  full.  Cover  and 
steam,  while  baking,  for  half  an  hour.  Eemove  the  lid 
and  bake  ten  minutes,  or  until  browned. 

Eat  hot  ^^'ith  sauce. 


r  PUDDISG. 

1  pint  ripe  or  nearly  ripe  gooseberries.' 

6  or  8  slices  toasted  stale  bread. 

1  cup  milk. 

i   ••     .ugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  molted. 
Stew  the  gooseberries  ten  minutes — very  slowly,  not  to 
break  them.  Cut  your  slices  of  bread  to  fit  your  pudding- 
dish,  and  toast  to  a  light  brown  on  both  sides.  (Cut  off 
all  the  crust  before  toasting.)  Dip  each  sHce,  while  hot, 
in  milk,  and  spread  with  the  melted  butter.  Cover  the 
bottom  of  the  dish  with  them;  put  next  a  layer  of  the 
gooseberries,  sprinkled  thickly  with  sugar ;  more  tcaat, 
more  ben-ies,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is  fall.  Cover 
closely  and  stoam  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  or  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Turn  out  upon  a  hot  dish  and  ponr  over  it 
a  good  pudding-sauce, 


.dhyGoogle 


BAKED   PUDDINGB.  405 

This  is  considered  a  wliolesonie  breakfast  dish,  and  is 
iwttaiuly  good.  Jn  this  case  omit  tlie  sauce,  sift  powdered 
migar  over  tke  top,  and  eat  with  tlie  same, 

Newark  Puddiso. 
1  cup  fine  bread-crumbs  soaked  iu  a  pint  of  tlie  milV, 

1  quai't  of  tiiillf, 

S  tablespoonfuls  rice-flour. 

j-  lb,  raisins  seeded,  cut  in  two,  and  dredged  witb  flour. 

Vanilla  or  bitter  almond  extract. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  and  a  balf-teaspoonfui 

Beat  the  yolks  light;  add  the  soaked  bread-crumbi  and 
milk ;  stir  to  a  smooth  batter,  put  in  the  rice-floui-,  wet  up 
first  -with  cold  milk ;  the  reserved  pint  of  milk,  the  season- 
ing, butter,  the  fruit,  lastly  the  whites  whipped  stiff.  Bake 
an  hour  in  a  buttered  mould;  turn  out  and  pour  sauce 
over  it,  serving  Lard  sauce  also  with  it. 

Or, 
You  may  boil  the  mixture  two  hours  in  a  floured  cloth  or 
buttered  mould. 

Baked  Plum  Puddikg. 
IJlb.  of  flour. 

1  lb,  raisins  seeded,  cut  in  two,  and  dredged  with  flour. 
J  lb.  suet,  freed  from  strings  and  powdered. 

2  oz.  citron,  shred  fine. 

5  eggs— whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
Nutmeg,   cinnajuon,  and  cloves — one  teaspoonfid  each. 
Milk  to  maie  a  thick  batter  of  the  flour.     Begin  with 
two  cups,  and  add  more  if  necessary. 


.dhyGoogle 


406  COMMON   SENBB. 

Beat  the  jolka  and  sugar  together;  add  the  auctani 
spice,  then  the  flour,  moistening  the  mixture  gi'aduallj 
with  milk  imtil  you  can  move  the  q>oon  in  it,  Prcdga 
the  fruit  and  put  iu  by  degrees;  finally,  stir  in  the  beaten 
whites.  Beat  all  very  hard  and  long  before  baking  in  a 
buttered  mould.  It  \vill  require  at  least  an  hour  and  a 
.  half  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Turn  out,  and  eat  with  rich  sweet  sauce. 

Belle's  Dumplings, 
1  quurt  prepared  fl.our. 
2J  tablespoonfuls  lard  and  butter  mixed. 
3  cups  of  milk,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough, 

Roll  out  a  quarter  of  an  iach  thick,  cut  into  oblong 
pieces,  rounded  at  the  comers ;  put  a  great  spoonful  damson 
cherry,  or  other  tart  preserve  in  the  middle  and  roll  into  a 
dumpling.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  bi-ush  over 
with  beaten  egg  while  hot,  set  back  in  the  oven  three  min- 
utes to  glaze. 

Eat  hot  with  brandy  or  wine  sauce. 

Or, 
You  may  make  a,  roll-pudding  of  it  by  rolling  out  the  paste 
into  an  oblong  sheet,  spreading  thickly  with  the  preserves, 
folding  it  up  as  one  would  a  traveliing-shawl  to  be  put  into 
a  strap,  pinching  the  ends  together  that  the  juice- may  not 
escape,  and  boiling  in  a  floured  cloth  fitted  to  the  shape  of 
the  "  roley-poley."     Boil  an  howr  and  a  half. 

Boiled  Puddings. 
Ton  can  boil  puddings  in  a  bowl,  a  inoidd,  or  %  clofh. 
The  mould  should  have  a  closely-fitting  top  and  be  buttered 
well — top  and  al! — before  the  batter  or  dough   is  put  in 


.dhyGoogle 


BOILED   PtJTDIH-QS,  401 

Theso  moulds  are  usually  made  mtJi  hmp^  or  otter  fistcii 
ing.  In  lack  of  this,  you  had  better  tie  do-so  the  co^et 
securely.  I  once  boiled  a  pudding  ia  a  tm  p-nl,  the  t-^  of 
which  I  made  more  secure  by  fitting  xt  over  a  cloth  floured 
on  the  inside,  lost  tie  pudding  should  sticL,  The  ex].en. 
meut  succeeded  admirably,  and  I  commiud  thp  su^Ejebtion 
to  those  who  find,  after  the  pudding  is  mi^od,  tlilt  their 
mould  leaks,  or  the  bowl  that  did  duty  as  a  substitute  h.'j 
been  broken,  and  nothing  said  to  "the  nust.ess"  about  it. 
If  you  use  a  bowl,  butter  it,  and  tie  a  floured  tloth  tightly 
o-ver  the  top.  If  a  cloth,  have  it  clean  and  sweet,  and  flour 
bountifully  on  the  inside.  In  all,  lea^e  room  for  battel, 
bread,  rice,  and  cracker  puddings  to  swell.  Tie  the  sti-in<^ 
very  tightly  about  the  mouth  of  the  bag,  which  must  be 
ma^ewitli/e«e<i  seams  at  sides  and  bottom,  the  better  to 
exclude  the  water. 

The  water  must  he  boiling  when  the  pudding  goes  in, 
and  not  stop  boiUng  for  one  instant  imtil  it  ia  done.  If  it 
is  in  a  bag,  this  must  he  turned  several  times,  under  wafer, 
to  prevent  sticking  or  scorching  to  the  sides  of  the  pot. 
The  bag  must  also  be  entirely  covered,  while  the  water 
should  not  quite  reach  to  the  top  of  a  mould.  If  you  use 
a  basin,  dip  the  clotii  in  boiling  water  before  dredging  with 
flour  on  the  inside. 

■Wien  the  timejs  up,  take  mould,  basin,  or  cloth  fi-om 
the  boiEng  pot,  and  phmge  i-astandy  into  cold  watei-;  Uien, 
turn  out  without  the  loss  of  a  second.  This  wiU  prevent 
Sticking,  and  leave  a  clearer  impression  of  tlie  mould  upon 
the  contents. 

Boiled  puddings  should  be  sen-cd  as  soon  as  they  are 
done,  as  they  soon  become  heavy. 

Many  of  the  baked  puddings  I  have  described  are  ([utta 
ds  good  boiled.  As  a  safe  nile,  double  &e  lime  of  baking, 
if  you  boa. 


.dhyGoogle 


Berhy  Pudding. 
1  pint  of  milk. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

^  tcajspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  "  cream -tartar,  sifted  tlirongh  a  cup  of  floiil 

and  added  to  enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter. 

1  pint  blackberries,  raspberries,  currants,  or  tuckle- 
berries,  well  dredged  with  flour — stirred  in  at  the  last. 

Boil  one  hour  in  buttered  mould. 

HuoKLEBEERY  Pudding.  ^ 
1  pint  milk. 

1  quart  flour-— or  enough  for  thick  batter. 

1  gUl  baker's  yeast. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Keai-ly  a  quart  of  berries— well  di-edged  witb.  flour. 

Make  a  batter  of  eggs,  milk,  flour,  yeast,  salt,  and  soda, 
ftod  set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  about  four  hours.  "When 
you  are  ready  to  boil  it,  stir  in  the  dredged  fruit  quickly 
and  lightly.  Boil  in  a  buttered  mould  or  a  floured  cloth 
for  two  hours. 

This  will  be  found  lighter  and  more  wholesome  tlian 
boiled  pastry. 

Eat  hot  with  sweet  sauce. 

Fruit  Valise  Pudding. 
1  quart  flour. 

1  lablespoonful  lard,  and  same  of  butter. 
1  ceaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
3  "  cream-tartar — sifted  through  tlie  floUR 


.dhyGoogle 


BOILED  TUDDmaB.  409 

1  saltspoonfitl  salt. 

2  cups  imlk,  or    enough  to  make  the  flour  into  soft 

dough. 
1  quart  berries,  chopped  apples,  sliced  peaches,  or  other 

fruit ;  jam,  presei-vea,  canned  fruit,  or  manaalade  nmy 

be  substituted  for  the  ben-ies. 
Roll  out  the  crust  less  than  half  an  inch  thick— indeed, 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  will  do— into  an  oblong  sheet.  Cover 
thickly  with  the  fruit  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Begin  at 
one  end,  aud  toll  it  up  closely,  the  fruit  inside.  In  putting 
this  in,  leave  a  narrow  margiu  at  the  other  end  of  the  roll, 
which  should  be  folded  down  closely  like  the  flap  of  a  pockets 
book.  Pinch  the  ends  of  tbe  folded  roll  together,  to  prevent 
the  escape  of  the  fruit,  and  baste  up  in  a  bag,  the  same  size 
and  shape  as  the  "  valise."  Flour  the  bag  well  before  put- 
ting in  tlio  pudding,  havmg  previously  dipped  it-the  cloth 
— into  hot  water,  ajid  wring  it  out, 

BoH  an  hour  and  a  half.  Serve  hot  with  sauce,  and  cut 
crosswise  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick. 

Boiled  Apple  Dumi'lings.  (iV^o.  I.)  4. 

Make  a  paste  according  to  the  above  receipt ;  cut  in 
squares,  and  put  in  the  centre  of  each  an  apple,  pared  and 
cored.  Bring  the  cornera  together ;  enclose  eacli  dumpling 
in  a  small  square  cloth,  tied  up  bag-wise,  leaving  room  to 
B\yell.  Each  cloth  should  be  dipped  in  hot  water,  wrung 
out  and  floured  on  the  inside  before  tlie  apple  is  put  in. 

BoU  one  hour. 

Apple  DustpiiNOS.  {JVo..  2.)  •}« 
1  quart  flour, 
J  lb.  suet. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 


.dhyGoogle 


410  OOKaOS   BENSB. 

^  teaspooaful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water, 

1  "  cream-tartar  sifted  in  the  Sour. 

Cold  water  enough  to  make  into  a  tolerably  stiff  paste. 

Koll  out,  cut  into  squares,  pnt  in  the  middle  of  each  a 
fine,  juicy  apple,  pared  and  coved,  Fill  the  hole  left  l>y 
the  core  with  maxmalade,  or  with  sugar,  wet  with  lemon- 
juice.  Stick  a  clove  in  the  sugar.  Close  tlie  paste,  tie  up 
in  the  cloths,  when  you  have  wet  them  with  hot  water  and 
floured  them,  and  boil  one  hour, 

A  pleasing  idea  for  dumpling  cloths  is  to  cKichet  them 
in  a  close  stitch  with  stout  tidy  cotton.  They  are  easily 
done,  wash  aad  wear  well,  and  leave  a  very  pretty  pattern 
upon  the  paste  when  they  are  opened.  Crochet  them  round, 
with  a  cord  for  drawing  run  into  the  outer  edge. 

Boiled  Feuit  Tudding, 

Prepare  a  paste  in  accordance  with  either  of  the  fore- 
goir^  receipts,  but  roll  into  one  sheet.  Lay  apples,  peaches, 
or  berries  in  the  centre,  paring  and  slicing  the  fruit ;  sprin- 
kle with  sugar,  and  close  the  paste  over  them  as  you  would 
a  dumpling.  Dip  a  stout  cloth  in  hot  water,  flour  the  in- 
side, put  in  the  pudding,  tie  tightly,  and  boil  two  hours  and 
a  half. 

Eat  hot  with  sauce, 

ElOE   DUMPLISOS. 

1  lb,  rice  boiled  without  stirring,  until  soft,  and  at  tho 
top  dry. 

12  pippins,  pared  and  cored. 

Strawberry  marmalade  or  crab-apple  jelly. 

Let  the  rice  cool  iipon  a  sieve  or  coarse  cloth,  that  it 
may  dry  at  the  same  time.  Dip  your  dumpling  cloths  in  hot 
water ;  wring  them  out  and  flour  well  inside,     Pu'.  a  han  ifu] 


.dhyGoogle 


BOILSD  PDTiCmGS.  ill 

of  tt  e  cold  rice  upon  each,  spreaflingit  out  into  a  smooth  sheet. 
Lay  m  the  centre  an  apple ;  fill  the  hole  left  by  the  core  with 
marmaJade  or  jeUy;  draw  up  the  cloth  carefully  to  enclose 
tOie  apple  with  a  coating  of  rice;  tie,  and  boil  one  hour. 

Turn  out  with  care  ;  pour  sweet  sauce  or  rich  sweetened 
cream  over  tliem,  and  send  around  more  ia  a  boat  with 

Suet  Dumplings  (plain). 
2  cups  fine  bread-orambs,  soaked  in  a  very  little  milt. 
1  cup  beef  suot,  freed  from  strings,  and  powdered. 
4  e^a,  whites  and  yolks  sepai-ated,  and  beaten  vert 

light. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-tartar,  sifted  into  the  flour. 
i  "  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1  "  salt. 

Enough  milt  to  mix  into  a  stiff  paste. 
Make  into   lai^e  balls  with  floured  hands ;   put  into 
dumpling  cloths  dipped  into  hot  water  and  floured  inside; 
leave  room  to  swell,  and  tie  the  strings  Tory  tightly, 

Boii  three-quarters  of  an  hour.     Serve  hot  with  wina 

Fkutt  Suet  Dumplings 
Are    made  as  above,  with   the  addition  of  |  lb.    raisins, 
seeded,  chopped,  and  dredged  with  flour,  and  ^  lb.  cun^nta, 
washed,  dried,  and  dredged. 

EoO  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 

EoiLED  Ihdian  Meal  Pdddihq. 
1  quart  milk. 
1      "     Indian  meal. 
3  eggs. 

3  heaping  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  I  teaspoonful  salt 
i  lb.  beef  suet,  chopped  into  powder. 


.dhyGoogle 


412  COMMON   SENSE. 

Scald  the  milk,  and  -wliile  boiling  fiot  stir  ia  the  mea, 
and  snet  with  the  salt.  When  cold  add  the  yolks,  beaten 
light  with  the  sugar,  then  the  whites.  Dip  your  bag  in  hoi 
water,  flour  it,  and  fill  half  full  with  tJie  mixture,  as  it  wiP 
ewuU  very  much.     Boil  five  houra. 

Eat  very  hot  with  butter  and  sugar. 

Cabinet  PuDDisa 
i  lb.  flour. 
J  "   butter. 

1^  lb.  sugar. 

^     "   raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  three  pieces  each. 
J     "   currants,  waalied  and  dried. 
■J  cup  cream  or  milk, 
J  lemon — juice  aud  rind  grated. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then 
the  milk  and  the  flour,  alternately  with  the  whites.    Lastly, 
Btir  in  the  fruit,  well  dredged  with  flour,  turn  into  a  but- 
tered mould,  and  boil  two  hours  and  a  half  at  least. 

Servo  hot,  with  cabinet  pudding  sauce  over  it.  {Se« 
Smet  Sauces.) 

Eve's  Puddino. 
1  heaping  cup  of  fine  dry  bread-crumos. 
^  lb.  pared  and  chopped  apples. 
■J-  "    raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 
6  oz,  currants,  washed  and  dried. 
6  eggs. 

1  teaspoonfu!  nutmeg,  and  same  of  allspice. 
1  glass  brandy. 

1  cup  sugar,  and  J  teaapoonful  salt. 
■J-  lb.  suet,  chopped  to  powder. 
Work  tlie  sugar  into  the  beaten  yolks ;  then  the  suet 
«nd  crumbs,  with  the  chopped  ipplesj  nest  the  brandy 


.dhyGoogle 


BOILED  PCDDIKOS.  4:13 

ttnd  spice,  then  the  whipped  whites  j  lastly  the  fruit,  -weL 
dredged  with  Hour. 

Boil  ill  a  buttered  bowl  or  mould  three  hjura.  Eat  hot 
with  sauce. 

The  Queen  or  Plum  Puddisgs. 
.     1  lb.  butter. 

1  "    of  suet,  freed  from  stiings  and  chopped  fine. 

1  "    of  sugar. 
2i  Iba.  of  flour. 

2  "     of  i-aisins,  seeded,  chopped,  and  dredged  with 

2  lbs,  of  currants,  picted  over  carefully  after  they  ar« 

washed, 
J  lb,  of  citron,  slired  fine. 
13  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
1  pint  of  milt. 

1  cup  of  brandy, 
■J  oz.  of  clovea. 

i  "   of  mace. 

2  grated  nutmegs. 

Cream  tho  butter  and  sugar ;  beat  in  the  yolis  when 
you  have  whipped  them  smooth  and  light ;  nei:t  put  in  the 
milk;  then  the  flour,  alternately  with  the  beaten  whites; 
then  the  brandy  aud  spice;  lastly  tlie  fruit,  welt  dredged 
with  flour.  Mix  all  thoroughly ;  wring  out  your  pudding- 
cloth  in  hot  water ;  flour  weU  inside,  pour  in  the  mixture, 
aad  boil  five  hours. 

I  can  confidently  recommend  this  as  the  best  plum  pud- 
ding I  have  ever  tasted,  even  when  the  friend  at  whose 
table  I  had  first  the  pleasure  of  eating  it  imitated  the 
example  of  "  good  King  Arthur's  "  economical  spouse,  and 
what  we  "  couldn't  eat  that  night,"  "  next  day  fried,"  by 
I  little  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  laying  in  slicet 


.dhyGoogle 


Hi  COMMON   SENSE. 

of  her  pudding,  ■wanned  them  into  almost  their  origina. 
excellence.     It  will  keep  a  long  time — in  a  locked  closet  or 

Obasge  Eoley-Polby. 

Make  ft  light  past*  as  for  apple  dumplings  or  valise 
pudding,  roll  in  an  ohlong  sheet,  and  lay  oranges  (sweut 
ones),  peeled,  sliced,  and  seeded,  thickly  all  over  it,  Spi'in- 
k!e  with  white  sugar ;  scatter  a  teaspoonful  or  two  of  the 
grated  yellow  peel  over  all  and  roll  up  closely,  folding 
down  the  end  tti  secure  the  eyrup.  Boil  in  a  pudding- 
cloth  one  hour  and  a  half. 

Eat  with  lemon  sauce. 

Chekrt  or  Currakt  Pybamid. 

Wash  and  stone  the  cherries,  or  pick  the  currants  firom 
their  steins.  Make  some  good  light  crust,  roll  it  out  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  for  the  hottom  a  round 
piece  ahout  the  size  of  a  tea-plate.  You  can  use  the  top 
of  a  tin  pail  for  a  cutter.  Spread  your  fruit  upon  this, 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  leaving  a  half  inch  margin  all 
around.  Holl  out  a  second  sheet  an  inch  less  in  diameter 
than  the  first,  lay  it  carefully  upon  the  fruit,  and  turn  up 
the  margin  of  the  lower  piece  over  the  edge  of  this.  Spread 
this,  in  turn,  with  fruit  and  sugar,  and  cover  with  a  thirc" 
and  lessening  round ;  proceeding  in  this  order  until  the 
sixth  and  topmost  cover  is  not  more  than  three  inches 
icro&s.  Have  ready  a  conical  cap  of  stout  muslin  adapted 
to  the  proportions  and  dimensions  of  your  pile ;  dip  it  in 
boiling  water,  flour  inside,  and  draw  gently  over  all.  It 
should  be  large  enough  to  meet  and  tie  under  the  haaa 
mthout  cramping  the  pyramid. 

Boil  two  hours,  and  eat  with  sweet  eauoe. 


.dhyGoogle 


FRIrrBKS,    P4NCAKE9,    ETC.  415 

FEITTEKS,  PANCAKES,  Etc. 

Have  plenty  of  nice  aweet  lard  in  which  to  fry  frittera, 
and  test  the  heat  hy  dropping  in  a  teaspoonful  before  you 
risk  more.  If  right,  the  batter  will  rise  quickly  to  the  aur- 
fajje  iit  a  puff-ball,  spluttering  and  dancing,  and  will  speedily 
assume  a  rich  golden  brown.  Take  up,  as  soon  as  done, 
with  a  skimmer,  shaking  it  to  dislodge  any  dropa  of  lard 
that  may  adhere ;  pile  in  a  hot  dish,  sift  sugar  over  them, 
and  send  instantly  to  the  table.  Fry  aa  many  at  a  time  aa 
the  kettle  will  hold,  and  send  in  hot  fieah  ones  while  the 
batter  lasts.  A  round-bottomed  saucepan  or  kettle,  rather 
wide  at  top,  is  best  for  frying  them. 

Use  a  frying-pan  for  pancakes ;  heat  it ;  put  in  a  tea- 
Bpoonful  or  two  of  lard  and  run  it  quickly  over  the  bottom; 
then  pour  in  a  largo  ladleful  of  batter — enough  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  with  a  thin  sheet.  Tnm  with  a  tin 
Bj>atula,  very  cai"efully,  to  avoid  tearing  it.  The  frying-pan 
should  be  a  small  one.  Have  ready  a  hot  dish;  turn  out 
the  pancake  upon  it,  cover  with  powdered  sugar,  and  roU 
\s]}  dexterously  Like  a  sheet  of  paper.  Send  half  a  dozen  to 
table  at  once,  keeping  them  hot  by  setting  the  dish  in  the 
oven  until  enough  are  baked. 

I  am  thus  explicit  in  tliese  general  instructions  to  save 
myself  the  trouble,  and  the  reader  the  tedium,  of  a  repetition 
under  eaeL  receipt. 

In  olden  times  it  was  a  boast  of  notable  cooks  that  they 
could  toss  a  pancake  from  th.e  pan  out  of  the  top  of  the 
chimney  with  such  accuracy  of  caiculation,  that  it  would 
turn  itself  on  the  way  back,  and  settle  in  its  place,  ready, 
iike  St.  Lawrence,  to  have  the  other  side  fried.  T  never 
saw  a  pancake  tossed,  although  io  my  childish  days  I  saw 
hundreds  fried  by  the  honorable  tribe— now  so  fast  ]^)assing 
ftway--of  Old  Virginia  cooks.     I  do  not  advise  this  acro- 


.dhyGoogle 


416 

batic  system  of  culinary  exploit,  especially  for  l 
Indeed,  I  doubt  if  the  pancakes  would  be  fowud  equal  to  the 
journey  in  tliese  days  of  tight  chimney -throats  and  cooking 
stoves.  TLey  must  he  out  of  practice  aa  well  as  their  manu- 
facturers. Be  careful  not  to  have  too  much  grease  in  'Jio 
pan. 

Fritters  {^o.  1).  bJi 

1  pint  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  pint  boiling  Tvatep, 
Stir  (ie  flour  into  the  water  by  degrees,  and  stir  unti] 
it  has  boiled  three  minutes.      Let  it  get  almost  cold,  when 
beat  in  the  yolks,  then  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  must 
be  previously  wliipped  sti^. 

Fritters  {No.  2). 
6  e^s. 
1  quairt  milk, 
3  cupa  flour, 

■J-  teaspoonful  soda  (lissolved  in  hot  water, 
1  teaspoonful  cream-tartar  sifted  into  the  flour. 
A  httle  salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately,  of  covirse ;  stir  tha 
milk  in  with  ttie  former,  then  the  soda,  the  flour,  and  salt, 
finally  the  whites.  Beat  very  hard,  and  fry  at  once,  in 
great  ladlefuls. 

Apple  FRiTTEaa.  ^ 

A  batter  according  to  the  preceding  receipt 

6  large  juicy  apples,  pared  and  quartered. 

1  glass  brandy. 

I  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

1  teaspoonftd  ci 


.dhyGoogle 


FiUTTEES,   PASCAXEB,   ETC  4Jl7 

Put  the  brfLndy,  a  very  little  water,  the  sugar,  and  tlia 
spice  into  a  covered  saucepan  with  the  apples.  Stir  gently 
until  half  done ;  drain  off  the  liquor,  every  drop ;  minca 
the  apple  when  cold,  and  stir  into  the  batter. 

Or, 
You  may  parboil  the  apples  in  clear  water,  with  a  Teij 
little  sugar,  and  proceed  aa  just  directed. 

Jellt  Feittkhs. 
1  scant  cnp  sponge-cake  crumbs— very  fine  and  dry, 

1  cup  boilmg  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 

1  teaspoonfiil  com-staich,  wet  ia  a  little  cold  milk. 

2  table  spoonfuls  currant  or  cranberry  jelly. 

Soak  the  cake-crumhs  in  the  boiling  milk,  and  stir  in 
the  corn-starch.  Heat  all  together  to  a  boil,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Beat  the  yolks  light,  and  add  to  this  as  it  cools, 
with  the  sugar.  Whip  in  the  jelly,  a  little  at  a  time,  and 
put  in  the  whites — beaten  to  a  stiff  froth— at  the  last. 

Fry  immediately. 

Beead  Fkitteks, 

1  quart  milk — boiling  hot, 

2  cups  fine  bread  crumbs  (aerated  bread  ia  best). 

3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
1  tablespoonful  butter — melted. 

I  saltspoonful  salt,  and  the  same  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
hot  water. 

Soak  the  bread  in  the  boiling  milk  ten  minotes,  in  a 
ooTered  bowl.     Beat  to  a  smooth  paste ;  add  the  whipped 


.dhyGoogle 


its  COMMON  8EHSE. 

yolks,  tlie  buttei,  salt,  aoda,-and  finally  the  wliiteB,  wLippcd 
Btifi". 

Queen's  Toast. 
Fry  slices  of  stale  baker's  bread— aerated,  If  you  can  get 
it — in  boiling  lard  to  a  fine  brown.  Dip  each  slice  (julckij 
ia  boiling  water  to  remove  the  grease.  Sprinkle  witli  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  pile  upon  a  hot  plate.  Before  toasting, 
cut  out  the  slices  with  a  round  cake-cutter,  taking  off  all  the 
crust.  They  look  better  when  piled  up.  Pour  sweet  wina 
Bauce  over  them  wheu  hot,  and  serve  at  once. 

Jelly-Cake  Fritters  (very  nice).  »J« 

Some  stale  sponge,  or  plain  cup  cake,  out  into  rounda 
with  a  cake-cutter. 

Hot  lard. 

Strawberry  or  other  jam,  or  jelly. 

A  little  boiling  milk. 

Cut  the  cake  carefully  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Dip  each 
slice  for  a  second  in  a  bowl  of  boiling  milk,  draining  this 
off  on  the  side  of  the  vessel ;  lay  on  a  hot  dish  and  spread 
thickly  with  strawberry  jam,  peach  jelly,  or  other  delicate 
conserve.  Pile  them  neatly  and  send  around  hot,  with 
sroam  to  pour  over  them. 

This  is  a  nice  way  of  using  up  stale  cake,  and  if  rightly 
prepared,  the  dessert  is  almost  equal  to  Neajolitan  pudding. 

Pascakbs. 
1  pint  of  flour. 
6  eggs. 

1  saltspoonful  salt,  and   same  of  soda   dissolved   in 
vinegar. 
Milk  to  make  a  thin  batt«r.     Begin  with  two  cups  and 
add  until  the  batter  is  of  the  right  consistency.     Beat  tha 


.ohyGoogle 


BWBET,    OE   PUDDING   SAU0E8.  419 

folks  b'ghfc,  add  the  salt,  soda,  and  two  cups  of  milk,  then 
the  fl<,ur  and  beaten  whites  alternately,  and  thin  with  mors 

Jelly  or  Jam  Pancakes. 
A  batter  as  above.  When  the  pancakes  are  fried,  lay 
upon  a  hot  plate,  spread  quickly  with  nice  jam  or  jelly,  and 
roll  up  neatly  upon  the  preserves.  Sprinkle  Hghtly  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  send  around  with  wine  sauce  or  sweet- 
ened cream. 


SWEET,  OR  PUDDIl^G  SAUCES. 

Hard  Sauce.  •{• 
Stir  to  a  cream  1  cup  of  butter. 

3  cups  of  powdered  sugar. 
When  light,  beat  in  f  teacup  of  wine. 
Juice  of  a  lemon. 
2  teaspoonfuls  nutmeg. 
Beat  long  and  hard  until  several  shades  lighter  in  coloiC 
»haii  at  first  and  creamy  in  consistency.     Smooth  into  shape 
with  a  broad  knife  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  stamp  with  a 
wooden  mould,  first  scalded  and  then  dipped  in  cold  water 
Set  upon  the  ice  until  the  pudding  is  served. 

Bee-hive  Sauce.  ^ 
Mix  a  hard  sauce  according  to  the  previous  receipt,  and 
when  light,  set  aside  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  in  a  plate. 
To  the  larger  quantity  left  add  gradually,  cheiTy,  currant, 
or  cranberry  juice  enough  to  color  it  a  good  pink.  Ked 
jelly  will  do  if  berries  are  out  of  season.  Boat  the  color- 
ing matter  in  thoroughly,  and  shape  into  a  conical  mound. 
Roll  half  a  sheet  of  note-paper  into  a  long,  narrow  funnel. 


.dhyGoogle 


laU  COMMOH  SENSE. 

tie  a  string  about  it  to  keep  it  in  shape,  and  fill  witli  the 
uncolored  sauce.  Squeeze  it  out  geutly  through  the  small 
end  in  a  i-idge,  beginning  at  the  base  of  the  cone  acd  wind 
ing  about  it  to  the  top,  filling  yonr  fuimel  as  it  is  emi^tied, 
and  guiding  it  carefully.  The  effect  of  the  alternate  white- 
and-pink  lines  is  veiy  pretty. 

If  the  pudding  is  one  to  which  chocolate  -would  be  a 
pleasant  addition,  color  with  grated  chocolate,  rubbed 
Bmooth  ia  a  little  of  the  wine,  and  ridge  with  white.  Set 
upon  the  ice  or  upon  the  cellar-fioor  until  firm.  Stick  a 
colored  almond  or  other  ornamental  candy  upon  the  top. 

Tliis  bee-hive  is  easily  made,  and  will  set  off  even  a  plain 
pudding  handsomely. 

Bhandy  Sauce  {liwrd).  •}• 
^  cup  butter. 
2  cups  powdered  sugar. 
1  wineglass  brandy, 

1  teaspoonful  mixed  cinnamon  and  mace. 
Warm  the  butter  very  slightly,  work  in  the  sugar,  and, 

when  this  is  light,  the  brandy  and  spice.  Eeat  hard— shape 
Into  a  mould  and  set  in  a  cold  place  until  wanted. 

White  Wihe  Sauce  {liquid),  <^ 
■J  cup  butter. 
2J  cups  powdered  sugar. 

2  wineglasses  pale  sherry  or  white  wine. 
■J  cup  boiling  water. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Work  the  butter  into  the  sugar,  moistening,  as  you  go 

on,  with   boiling   water.     Beat   long   and  hard  until  youi 

bowl  is  nearly  full  of  a  creamy  mixture.     Then  aild  gi-adu- 

ftlly  the  wine  and  nutmeg,  still  beating  hard.     Turn  into  a 


.dhyGoogle 


8WEET,    OE  rDDDINQ    BAITCEB.  421 

tiB  l^ail,  set  within  a  saucepan  of  boilixtg  water,  and  stii 
freqiieutly  until  tlie  sauce  is  hot,  but  not  until  it  boils. 
Take  tlie  saucepan  from  tlie  fii-e  and  leave  the  pail  stand- 
ing in  tlie  water,  stin-ing  the  contents  no^  and  then,  until 
you  are  ready  to  serve  the  pudding. 

If  rightly  midc,  tliia  sauce  will  be  nearly  as  white  as 
milk. 

Lemon  Sauce.  •{■ 

I  large  cup  of  sugar, 

Nearly  half  a  cup  of  butter. 

1  egg. 

1  lemon — all  the  juice  and  balf  the  grated  peel. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

3  tablespoonfula  boiling  water. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  beat  in  the  e^  whipped 
light ;  the  lemoo  and  nutmeg.  Beat  hard  ten  minutes,  and 
add,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  the  boiling  water.  Put  in  a  tin 
pail  and  set  within  the  imcovered  top  of  the  tea-kettle, 
which  you  must  keep  boiling  until  the  steam  heats  tha 
gauce  yery  hot,  but  not  to  boiling.     Stir  constantly. 

Milk  ruDDiNO  Sauce. 
2  e^s,  beaten  stiff. 
1  large  cup  of  sugar. 
6  tablespoonfuls  boiling  mil  It. 
■J-  teaspoonful  arrow-root  or  com-atarch,  wet  with  cold 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  or  mace, 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Sub  the  butter  into  the  sugar,  add  the  Veateu  egga,  and 
work  all  to  a  creamy  froth.  Wet  the  corn-starch  and  put 
in  next  with  the  spice— finally,  pour  in  by  the  spoonful  the 
boiiing  nulk,  beating  well  all  the  time.    Set  within  a  sauco- 


.dhyGoogle 


422 


;0MMOM    8EHSE. 


pan  of  bailing  water  five  minutes,  stirring  all  the  whilo,  biit 
do  not  leij  tie  sauce  boil. 

Iliis  is  a  good  sauce  for  bi-ead  and  otLer  simple  pud 

Cabinet  PtrDniijo  Sadce. 
Yolts  of  four  eggs,  whipped  very  light 
1  lemon — ^juice  and  half  the  grated  peel. 
1  good  glass  of  wine. 
1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  sugar,  add  the  yolts,  lemon,  and 
spice.  Beat  ten  minutes  and  put  in  the  wine,  still  stirring 
bard.  Set  within  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  beat 
while  it  heats,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 

Pour  over  the  pudding. 

FRmi  Pudding  Sauce,  >}• 

i  cup  butter. 

2}  cups  sugar. 

1  dessert  spoonful  cornstarch  wet  in  a  litlte  cold  milk. 

1  lemon— juice  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

I  glass  of  wine, 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  well ;  pour  the  corn-starch 
into  the  boiling  water  and  stir  over  a  clear  fire  until  it  is 
well  thickened ;  put  all  together  in  a.  bowl  and  beat  five 
minutes  before  returning  to  the  saucepan.  Heat  once,  al- 
most 1o  the  boiling  point,  add  the  wine,  and  serve 

CusTAKD  Sauob. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

2  eggs,  beaten  very  lif^t. 


.dhyGoogle 


SWEET,   OE   PCDDraO   SAUOEB.  423 

■J  wineglass  of  brandy. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,  stirred  into  the  eggs. 

Nutmeg  to  taste. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  add  by  degrees  to  th« 
ixiftf  en  eggs  and  sugar ;  put  in  tlie  nutmeg,  and  set  within  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Take  it  off  and  add  the  brandy  gradually.  Set,  until  it  il 
wanted,  wittdn  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 

Pour  over  the  pudding  when  it  cornea  from  the  moidd. 

Jelly  Sauce.  •{" 
■J  cup  currant  jelly. 
1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted. 
J  dessert  spoonful  arrowroot  or  corn-starch ;  wet  with 

cold  water. 
1  glass  pale  sherry. 
3  tableapooufnls  boiling  water. 

Stir  the  arrowroot  into  the  boiling  water  and  heat,  stir- 
ring  all  the  time,  until  it  thickens ;  add  the  butter,  and  set 
aside  until  almost  cool,  when  beat  in,  spoonful  by  spoonful, 
the  jelly  to  a  smooth  pink  paste.  Pour  in  the  wine,  stir 
hard,  and  heat  in  a  tin  vessel,  sot  within  another  of  boiling 
water,  until  very  hot. 

Pour  over  and  around  Neapolitan,  bread-and-marmjip 
lade  puddings,  cake-fritt«rs,  and  Queen's  toast 


>  Cream  {cold). 
1  pint  of  cream. 

4  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg. 
1  "  vanilla. 


hirstcdhyGoogle 


Mis  all  well  together,  stiri-iiig  until  tbe  sugar  U  di» 
Bolvcd.  Eat  with  jam  puddings,  queen  of  all  puddingSi 
^dice's  pudding,  and  puacli  roley-poley. 

Ckeam  Sauce  (hot). 

4  tabJespoonfula  powdered  sugar. 
Wlutes  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiti". 
Extract  of  vanilla  or  bitter  almonds,  one  teasiioonful. 
1  teaapoonful  nutmeg. 

Heat  tke  cream  slowly  in  a  vessel  set  in  a  saucepan  ol 
boiling  water,  stirring  often.  Wken  scalding,  but  not  boil- 
ing Lot,  remove  it  from  tlie  fire,  put  in  tlie  sugar  and  nut- 
meg; stir  three  or  four  minutes  aad  add  the  whites.  Mis 
thoroiiglily  and  flavor,  setting  the  bowl  containing  it  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  until  the  pudding  is  served,  stirring  now 
and  then. 

Jelly  Sauce  (JVo.  2).  ij« 
^  cup  currant  jelly. 
2  tablcspoonfuls  melted  butter. 

1  lemon— juice  and  half  tho  grated  peel. 
J  teaspoonful  nutmeg, 

2  glasses  wine,  and  a  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar. 
Heat  the  butter  a  httle  more  than  hlood-wana ;  beat 

the  jelly  to  a  smooth  batter  and  add  gradually  the  butter, 
the  lemon,  and  nutmeg.  Warm  almost  to  a  boil,  stirring 
bII  the  while;  beat  hard,  put  in  the  sugar,  lastly  the  wine. 
Set  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water  stirring  now  and  then,  until  it 
is  wanted.  Keep  it  covered  to  hinder  tlie  escape  of  th« 
wine  flavor.      Stir  well  before  pouring  out. 

This  is  a  very  fine  sauce,  paiticularly  for  cabinet  and 
Neapolitan  puddings. 


.dhyGoogle 


CDBTABDB,   BLANCaiANOEa,   ETC.  i%& 

Custards,  ElauoMakge,  Jellies,  and  Creams. 
A  good  rule  for  custard  is  five  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk, 
md  a  tallespoonful  of  sugar  to  each  egg,  although  a  good 
plain  custard  can  be  made  with  an  egg  for  each  cup  of  milk 
and  four  tableapoonfuls  of  sugar  to  the  quart.  Creams  and 
custards  that  are  to  he  frozen  must  have  at  least  ono-thiid 
more  sugar  than  those  which  are  not  to  undergo  this 
process, ' 

In  heating  the  milk  for  custard,  do  not  let  it  quite  boil 
before  adding  the  yolks.  My  plan,  which  has  proved  a  safe 
one  tlius  far,  is  to  take  the  scalding  milk  from  the  fire,  and 
instead  of  pouring  the  beaten  eggs  into  it,  to  pi  t  a  sj  ooiifid 
or  two  of  Che  milk  to  them,  heating  well  ill  the  while,  add 
ing  more  and  more  milk  as  I  mix,  until  there  in  no  1  n^er 
danger  of  sudden  curdling.  Then,  return  all  to  the  fire 
and  boil  gently  until  the  mixture  is  oi  the  n^ht  consistency 
From  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  should  thicken  a  quart  tetir 
constantly. 

Always  boil  milk  and  custard  m  a  -lessd  set  withm 
another  of  hailing  water.  If  you  have  not  a  custaid  or 
farina  kettle,  improvise  one  by  setting  a  tm  poll  msiile  of  a 
pot  of  hot  water,  taking  care  it  doea  not  float,  also  th'it  the 
water  is  not  so  deep  aa  to  bubble  over  the  top  Cust  ii  <\-i 
are  better  and  lighter  if  the  yolks  md  whites  aro  beaten 
separately,  the  latter  stirred  in  at  the  last 

Boiled  Custard. 
1  quart  of  milk, 
Tolks  of  five  eggs  and  the  whites  of  sfven — (two  fo( 

tbe  mfii-ingue), 
6  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

"Vanilla  flavoring — 1  teaspoonful  to  the  pint. 
Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling;  beat  the  yolks  light 


.dhyGoogle 


426  COMMON    BENEB. 

and  atir  in  tlie  sugar.  Add  flie  milk  in  the  mannet  do- 
HOi'ibed  in  "general  directions"  at  Lead  of  tins  sectionj 
stir  ill  five  whites  whipped  stiif ;  return  to  the  fire  and  stjj 
iintil  thitJtj  but  not  until  it  treats.  Season  it  with  vanilla, 
[lOur  into  glass  cups;  whip  the  wiiites  of  two  eggs  to  a 
jnfiringue  with  a  heaping  tablespoonfid  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  when  tlio  custard  is  cold,  pile  a  little  of  this  upon  the 
top  of  each  cup.  You  may  lay  a  preserved  strawberry  or 
rherry,  or  a  bit  of  melon  sweetmeatj  or  a  little  bright  jellj 
ipon  each, 

Almobd  Custakds. 

1  pint  milk  (half  cream), 

^  lb.  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste,  a  few  at 
a  time  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  adding  gradually — 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  rose-water. 

Yolis  of  three  eggs  and  whites  of  four— (two  for  me- 
ringue). 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 

1  teaspoouful  extract  bitter  almond  in  m6ringue. 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  the  sugar,  the 
aliiond  paste,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs.  Boil,  stirring 
constantly  untU  it  thickens.  Stir  up  well  when  almost  cold 
and  pour  into  cups.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  flavored 
with  bitter  almond,  and  heap  upon  each  cup. 

Quaking  Custabd.  ■{< 

3  cups  TTiillr. 

Yolks  of   four    egga — reserving  the  whites  for    me^ 

^  package  Cooper's  or  Coxo's  gelatine. 
6  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring.  Juice  of  a  lemon  in  mfi 
lingue. 


.dhyGoogle 


CDSTAED8,   BLANC-MANGES,    KTO.  421 

Soik  tlio  gelatine  in.  a  cup  of  tlio  cold  milk  two  lioiirH 
Then  Iieat  tlie  rest  oftlie  niilk  to  boiling,  add  tliatia  n'liicli 
tlio  geliitiue  ifi,antl  stir  over  the  fire  until  tUe  latter  is  quit* 
dissolved.  Take  from  tlie  fire,  and  let  it  stand  five  minutes 
before  initting  in  tke  beaten  yolks  and  sugar.  Heat  slowlj 
uutil  it  begins  to  tiiicken  pernoptibly,  not  boil^say  seven 
or  eight  njinutes,  stirring  constantly.  When  nearly  cold, 
having  stirred  it  every  few  minutes  during  the  time,  flavor 
It,  wash  out  your  motdd  in  cold  water,  and  without  wiping 
it,  pour  in  the  custard  auiI  set  on  the  ice  or  in  a  cold  placa 
to  harden.  When  quite  firm,  turn  into  a  cold  dish,  loosen- 
ing it  by  wrapping  about  the  mould  a  cloth  wrung  out  in 
hot  water,  or  dipping  the  mould  for  an  instatit  in  warm, 
act  boUing  water.  Have  ready  the  whites  whipped  to  a 
froth  with  three  tablesjioonfids  powdered  sugar  and  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Heap  neatly  aboiit  the  base  of  the  moulded 
custard,  like  snow-drifts.  If  you  like,  you  may  dot  this 
with  minute  bits  of  cuiTant  jelly. 

This  is  a  pleasing  dish  to  tlie  eye  and  taste. 

Floating  Island.  "J* 

1  quart  of  milk, 

i  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
4  tablespoonfuls  (heaping)  white  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfula  extract  bitter  almond  or  vanilla. 
^  cup  currant  jelly. 

Beat  the  yolks  well,  stir  in  the  sugar,  and  add  the  hot, 
not  boiling  milk,  a  little  at  a  time.  Boil  until  it  begins  to 
thicken.  When  cool,  flavor  and  pour  into  a  glass  dish,  first 
Btiiring  it  up  well.  Heap  upon  it  a  meringue  of  the  whites 
into  which  yon  have  beaten,  gradually,  half  a  cup  of  cur- 
rant, cranberry,  or  other  blight  tart  jelly.  Dot  with  bits 
of  jelly  cut  into  rings  or  stars,  or  straight  slips  laid  on  in  a 


.dhyGoogle 


4^8  COMMON   SEN6E, 

Spvkisu  CEEAai.  •{• 

^  box  of  gelatine. 

I  quart  of  milk. 

Yolks  of  three  e^s. 

1  small  cup  of  sugar. 
Soak  the  gelatine  an  hour  in  the  milk ;  put  on  th<  fira 
niid  stir  well  as  it  warms.  Beat  the  yolks  very  light  witJj 
the  sugar,  add  to  the  scalding  milk,  and  heat  to  boiling 
point,  stirring  all  the  whQe.  Sti-ain  through  thin  miislin 
or  tarlatan,  and  when  almost  cold,  put  into  a  mould  wet 
with  cold  water.      Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

Bavaeiak  Ceel4ji  (^Very Jine), 
1  quart  sweet  cream. 
Yolks  only  of  foiir  egga. 
J-  Qz.  of  gelatine  or  isinglass, 

1  cup  (small)  of  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  bitter  almond  extract. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in.  just  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it^ 

for  an  hour.  Drain,  and  stir  into  a  pint  of  the  ci-eam 
made  boiling  hot.  Beat  the  yolks  smooth  with  the  sugar, 
and  add  the  boiling  mixture,  beaten  in  a  little  at  a  time. 
Heat  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  but  do  not  actually  boil ; 
remove  it  from  the  lire,  flavor,  and  wliile  it  is  still  Lot  atb 
in  the  other  pint  of  cream,  whipped  or  churned  in  a  sylla- 
bub chum  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  in  this  '"whip,"  a  spoon 
ful  at  a  time,  into  the  custard  until  it  is  the  consistency  of 
Bjionge-cake  batter.  Dip  a  mould  in  cold  water,  poTir  in 
the  mixture,  and  set  on  the  ice  to  form. 

Ssow  Costard.  .J- 
■J  package  Coxe's  gelatine 
3eggii. 


.dhyGoogle 


OTSTABDS,   BLANOMANGEB     Bra  429 

1  pint  milk. 

Juice  of  one  lemon, 

Soak  the  gelatine  one  hour  in  a  teacupful  of  cold  water, 
1  o  tliiy,  at  the  end  of  this  time,  add  one  pint  boiling  water. 
Stir  until  the  gelatine  is  tliorougiily  dissolved ;  aJd  two 
thirds  of  tlie  siigar  and  the  lemon-juice.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  egga  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  when  the  gelatine  is  quite 
cold,  whip  it  into  the  whites,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  for  at  least 
an  hour.  Whip  steadily  and  evenly,  and  when  all  is  stiff, 
pour  into  a  mould,  previously  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set 
in  a  cold  plaee.  In  four  or  five  hours  turn  into  a  glaaa 
dish. 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  eggs,  and  remainder  of  the 
sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  titter  almond,  and  when  the 
meringue  is  turned  out  of  the  mould,  pour  this  around  the 

Baked  Custard. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

4  eggs,  beaten  light — whites  and  yolks  separately. 

6  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  mixed  with  the  yolks. 

Nutmeg  and  vanilla. 

Scald  but  not  boil  the  milk;  add  by  degrees  to  the 
beaten  yolks,  and  when  well  mixed,  stir  in  the  whites. 
Flavor,  and  pour  into  a  deep  dish,  or  custard-cups  of  white 
Btone-china.  fet  these  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  gi'ate  nutmeg 
npon  ea«h,  and  bake  until  firm.     Eat  cold  from  tiie  cups. 

Fkench  Tapioca  Custaed,  ^ 
5  dessert  spoonfuls  tapioca. 
1  quart  of  milk, 
1  pint  of  cold  w  ater. 


.dhyGoogle 


I  i.'easpDonful  vanilla,  or  ot 
1  heajiing  eiip  of  sugar. 
A  pinch  of  salt. 

Souk  the  tapioca  in  the  water  five  hours.  Let  the  millt 
come  to  a  boU;  add  the  tapioca,  the  Tvater  in  whith  it  waa 
boiled,  and  a  good  piach  of  salt.  Stir  until  boiling  hot,  and 
add  gradually  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar.  Boil  agaio 
{altmys  m  a  \essel  set  within  another  of  hot  water),  stir- 
ring constantly  Let  it  cook  until  thick,  but  not  too  long, 
as  the  custard  will  break.  Five  minutes  after  it  reaches  the 
boil  will  suffice  Pi  lur  into  a  bowl,  and  stir  gently  into  thp 
mixture  the  Vihites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Flavor,  and  Sft  asi  le  in  a  glass  dish  until  very  cold. 

Eit  with  an  aoLompaiiiiuoiit  of  liglit  cake  and  brandied, 
or  canned  peaches  or  pears.  This  will  be  found  a  very 
delightful  dessert. 

Tapioca  Bianc-manqe. 

^  lb,  tapioca,  soaked  in  a  cui'  of  cold  wat«r  four  hours. 

1  pint  rich  new  milk. 
J  cup  of  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  bitter  almond  ot  vanilla  essence. 
A  lilTtle  salt. 

Heat  the  milk,  .tnd  stir  in  the  snaked  tapioca.  When 
it  baa  dissolved,  add  the  sugar.  Poi]  s'owiy  fifteen  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time;  take  from  the  £re,  and  beat  until 
nearly  cold.  Flavor  and  pour  into  a  motild  dipi)ed  in 
cold  water.  Turn  out,  and  pour  cold  sweetened  crniuQ 
(iround  it. 

Sago  Blakc-mahgb. 

May  be  made  in  the  same  way  as  tapioca. 


;dhyGoogle 


OCSTABDB,    BLAHC-MAIfGEI),   ETO.  431 

Corn-Starch  Bumc-MANGE.  ^ 
1  quart  of  milk, 
4  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch,  wet  in  a  little  cold   wa 

3  eggs,  well  beaten — whites  and  yolts  separately. 

1  cup  of  augar. 

Vanilla,  lemon,  or  other  essence. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling ;  stir  in  the  corn  starch  and 
salt,  and  boil  together  five  minutes  (in  a  farina-kettle),  then 
add  the  yolks,  beaten  light,  with  the  sugar ;  boil  two  min- 
utes longer,  stirring  all  the  while ;  remove  the  mixture  from 
the  fire,  and  beat  in  the  whipped  whites  while  it  is  boiling 
hot.  Pour  into  a  mould  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set  in  ^ 
cold  place.     Eat  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Farina  BtJVifc-jfANGE 
Is  made  according  to  the  above   receipt,  but  boiled  fif 
teen  minutes  before  the  eggs  are  added.     You  may  omii 
the  e^s  if  you  like,  and  only  want  a  plain  dessert. 

ArkQWBOOT   BliAlfC-MANGE.  •{i 

3  cups  of  new  milk. 

2J  tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot,  wet  up  with  cold  milk. 

J  cup  of  sugar. 

Vanilla,  lemon,  or  bitter  almond  flavoring,  with  a  little 

Mix  the  arrowroot  to  a  smooth  batter  with  one  cup  of 
the  milk.  Heat  the  remainder  to  boiling;  add  the  arrow- 
toot,  stirring  constantly.  When  it  begins  to  thicken  put 
in  the  sugar,  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer,  still  stirring  it 
well  from  the  sides  and  bottom.     Take  it  off;  beat  well  five 


.dhyGoogle 


432  COMMON   &£N8B. 

minntea;  flavjr  with  the  essence  and  a  small  wiricglosa  of 
white  wine.  Give  a  hard  final  stii-  before  putliug  it  into  a 
mould  wet  with  cold  water. 

This  is  very  nourisliing  for  iiiYalids  and  young  cliildrea 
For  the  latter  you  may  omit  tho  wino. 

Almond  Blako-makce.  •{» 
1  quart  of  milk. 
1  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine. 
3  OZ3.  of  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  in  a  mortarj 

1  tahlespoonful  of  rose-water,  added  to  prevent  oiliag. 
J  cup  sugar. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  having  previously  soaked  the 
gelatine  in  a  cup  of  it  for  an  hour.  Turn  in  this  when  the 
milk  is  scalding  hot ;  add  the  pounded  almond-paste,  and 
stir  all  together  ten  minutes  before  putting  in  the  sugar. 
When  the  gelatine  has  dissolved,  remove  tlie  blanc-mange 
from  the  vessel  of  boiling  water  in  which  you  have  cooked  it, 
and  strain  througli  a  thin  muslin  bag,  pressing  it  well  to  get 
out  the  flavor  of  the  almonds.  Tliere  should  be  three  or 
four  bitter  ones  among  them.  Wet  a  mould  with  cold 
water,  put  in  the  blanc-mange,  and  set  in  a  cold  place  until 

You  may  make  blanc-mange  without  the  almonds,  al- 
though it  will  not  bo  so  nice — and  substitute  vanilla  fot 
the  rose-wator. 

Neapolitam  Elamc-mange.  ^ 
Makeaccording  ti)  the  foregoing  receipt,  and,  after  strain 
ing,  separate  into  four  ditferent  portions,  allowing  about  • 
cupful  of  the  mixture  for  eaoh.     Have  ready 


.dhyGoogle 


CUSTARDS,   BLATfO-MANQESj    ETC.  433 

1  great  tablespoonful  ctocokte,  wet  with  a  very  Uttle 
boiling  water,  and  rubbed  to  a  smootli  paste,  for  tho 
brown  coloring. 

Yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  ligbt  for  tbe  yellow. 

1  great  tablespoonful  curi-ant  jelly  for  the  pink. 

Beat  the  chocolate  into  one  portion,  mixing  it  well ;  tb« 
jelly  into  another,  the  egg  into  a  third,  returning  this  and 
that,  flavored  with  chocolate,  to  the  fire,  and  stirring  tmtii 
very  hot,  but  not  boiling,  Leavethefourthuncolored,  When 
qidte  cold  and  a  little  stiff,  pour  carefully  into  a  wet  mould 
— the  white  first;  then  the  pint;  next  the  yoUow;  and  tha 
chocolate  last.  Of  course,  when  the  blanc-mange  is  turned 
out,  this  order  of  colors  will  be  reversed.  Set  in  a  cold 
pla«e.  Loosen,  when  firm,  by  dipping  the  mould  for  a  mo- 
ment in  warm  water,  and  working  the  top  free  from  tha 
edge  with  a  few  light  touches  of  your  fingers.  This  is  a 
handsome  dish  and  easily  mauaged.  Currant  juice  or  cran- 
berry color  a  finer  pink  than  jelly,  but  are  apt  to  thin  tho 
blanc-majige,  unless  used  cautiously.  A  little  vanilla  im- 
proves the  chocolate. 

Jaune-mange.  tj. 
1  oz.  Coxe's  gelatine,  soaked  in  half  a  cup  cold  water 

1  cup  of  boiling  water. 

Yolks  of  fo«r  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

1  orange,  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

1  lemon      "     and  one-third  the  grated  peel. 

I  cup  white  wine  or  clear  pale  sherry 

1  Clip  powdered  sugar  and  a  good  piuon  of  cinnamon. 

Stir  the  soaked  gelatine  in  the  boiling  water  until  dia- 
•tflvod  ;  take  from  tho  fire  and  beat,  a  little  at  a  time,  into 
the  yolks ;  return  to  the  iimer  saucepan  with  the  sugar, 
19 


.dhyGoogle 


131  OOUUOH    BENSB. 

oraoge,  lemon,  and  cinnamon.  Stir  over  a  clear  fire  until  it 
is  boiling  hot ;  put  in  the  wine  and  strain  through  a  hair- 
Bieve  or  a  piece  of  tarlatan.  Set  away  in  a  mould  woi 
with  cold  water. 

The  success  of  this  liiih  depends  much  upon  the  stirring 
and  the  watchfulness  of  the  cook.  The  mixture  should  not 
bo  allowed  to  boil  at  any  moment. 

"Velvet  Bi.aitomangb.  i^ 

jf  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  very  little  cold  water 

^  half  cup  white  sugar  (powdered). 

1  teaspoonful  extract  of  bitter  almonds. 

Heat  the  cream  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  gelatine  and  sugar, 
and,  so  soon  as  they  are  dissolved,  take  from  the  fire.  Beat 
ten  minutes,  or,  what  is  better,  churn  m  a  syllabub-chnm 
until  very  light ;  flavor,  and  add  by  degrees  the  wine,  mixing 
it  in  well.     Put  into  moulds  wet  with  cold  water. 

Chocolatb  Blanc-mange. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

1  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  the  milk  one 

4  heaping  table  spoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  rubbed  up 
with  a  httle  milk. 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately, 

}  cup  sugar  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling ;  pour  in  the  gelatine  and  mjlk, 
and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved ;  add  the  sugar  to  the  beaten 
yolks  and  stir  until  smooth;  beat  the  chooohite  iuU'  this, 


;dhyGoogle 


OU8TABD8,    BLANC-MANGES,    ETC.  438 

tnd  pour  in,  spoonful  by  spoonful,  tLe  scalding  milk  upon 
the  mixture,  stirring  all  the  wMle  until  all  is  in.  E^turn 
to  the  inner  saucepan  and  lieat  gently,  stirring  faithfully 
until  it  almost  boils.  Remove  from  fire,  turn  into  a  bowl, 
ud  whip  in  lightly  and  briskly  the  beaten  whites  with  the 
anilla.     Set  to  form  in  moulds  wet  with  cold  water, 

Charlotte  Russe.   i^ 

1  lb.  of  iady's-fingers, 

1  quart  rich  sweet  cream. 

f  cup  powdered  sugar 

3  teaspoonfnla  vanilla  or  other  extract 
Split  and  trim  the  cakes,  and  fit  neatly  in  the  bottom 
and  sides  of  two  quart  moulds.  Whip  the  cream  to  a  stiflT 
froth  in  a  Byllabub-ehum  when  you  have  sweetened  and 
flavored  it ;  fill  the  moulds,  lay  cakes  closely  together  on 
the  top,  and  set  upon  the  ice  until  needed. 

Or, 
You  may  use  for  this  purpose  a  loaf  of  sponge-cake,  cutting 
Btrips  from  it  for  the  sides  and  leaving  the  crust  for  the  bot^ 
torn  and  top,  each  iq  one  piece. 

A  Tipsy  Chaklotte.  J^ 
1  large  stale  sponge-cake. 
1  pint  rich  sweet  cream. 
1  cup  sherry  wine. 
J  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  cold  watar  two 

1  teaspoonfui  vanilJa  or  bitter  almond  extract. 

3  e^Sj  whites  and  yolks  beaten  together,  but  verf  light 

I  pint  milk. 

1  oup  sugar. 


.dhyGoogle 


d38  OOHMOK   SKNSE. 

Heat  the  cream  almost  to  boiling;  pnt  in  the  soaked 
gelaLiiie  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  stir  until  dissolved, 
Keiaove  from  the  fire,  flavor,  and,  when  cool,  beat  or  chum 
to  a  standing  froth.  Cut  off  the  top  of  the  cake  in  one 
piece,  and  scoop  out  the  middle,  leaving  the  sid  es  and  bottom 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Over  the  inside  of  thes* 
pour  the  wine  in  spoonfuls,  that  all  may  be  evenly  moistened. 
Fill  with  the  whipped  cream,  replace  the  top,  which  should 
also  be  moistened  with  wine  and  set  in  a  cold  place  until 
needed. 

Sevve  with  it,  or  pour  around  it,  a  custard  made  of  tba 
eggs,  milk,  and  the  other  half  cup  of  sugar. 

CnocoLATE  Charlotte  Eusse. 
^  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  very  little  cold 

3  tablespoonfula  grated  chocolate  rubbed  smooth  in  a 

little  milk. 
^  cup  powdered  sugar. 

4  eggs. 

■J-  lb.  sponge-cake. 
1  teaspoouful  vamlla. 
1  pint  cream. 

Heat  the  cream  to  boiling,  slowly,  stirring  frequently ; 
add  the  svigar,  chocolate,  and  gelatine,  and,  when  these  aro 
dissolved,  add,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  to  the  beaten  yolka. 
Sut  back  in  the  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  five 
minutes,  until  very  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Take  it  o^ 
Oavor,  and  whip  or  chum  to  a  standing  froth,  adding  the 
beaten  whites  towai-d  the  last.  Line  a  mould  with  sponge- 
cake, fill  witli  the  mixture,  and  set  upoa  the  ice. 


.dhyGoogle 


opstaeds,  blanc-mangee,  etc.  437 

Flummf.ky. 
2  oz.  almouds — a  few  bitter  among  them. 
1  tablespoonful  orange-flower  or  rose-water. 
1  pint  cream. 
1  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  one  hour  in  one  cup  colu 

water, 
1  cup  milt. 
i   "     sugar. 

Blanch  the  almonda,  and,  when  cold,  pound  them  to  a 
pasto  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  adding  orange-flower  or  rose- 
water  to  preTent  oiling.  Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  put  in 
the  gelatine,  the  sugar  and  almonds,  and  stir  five  minutes, 
or  until  they  are  thoroughly  dissolved.  Strain  through 
thin  moslin,  pressing  the  cloth  well,  "VVlien  cool,  beat  in 
the  cream,  a  little  at  a  time,  with  an  egg-whip,  or  churn 
in  a  syllabub-chum  imtil  thick  and  stiff.  Wet  your  mould, 
put  in  tho  mixture,  and  let  it  stand  seven  or  eight  hours  in 
A  cold  place. 

Gelatine  Cuaslotte  Eussb.     (  Ver!/  Mice,) 
1  pint  of  cream,  whipped  light. 
i  oz.  gelatine,  dissolved  in  1  gill  of  hot  milt. 
Whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  to  a  atift'  froth, 
1  small  tearcup  of  powdered  sugar. 
Flavor  with  bitter  almond  and  vanilla. 
Mix  the  cream,  eggs,  and  sugar ;  flavor,  and  beat  in  the 
gehitino  and  milt  last.     It  should  be  quite  cold  before  it 
is  added. 

Line  a  mould  with  slices  of  sponge-cake,  or  with  Iaily'» 
fingers,  and  fill  with  tiie  mixture. 
Set  upon  the  ice  to  cool. 


.dhyGoogle 


*.■*»  common  sense. 

"Whipped  Syllabubs. 
1  pint  of  cream,  rict  and  sweet. 
J  cup  sugar,  powdered. 
lgl»!»otwin«. 

Vauilla  or  other  extract,  1  large  teaspoonful. 
Sweeten  the  ci-eaui,  and,  wten  the  sugar  is  thorouglL) 
dissolved,  stir  in  tho  wine  carefully  with  the  flavoring  ex 
tract,  and  chum  to  a  string  froth. 
Heap  in  glasses,  and  eat  with  cake. 

GoosEEEEHY  Fool. 

1  quart  of  gooseberries,  ripe. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  cup  of  sugar, 

Yolka  of  four  eggs. 

Meruigue  of  whites,  and  3  tahlespoonfuls  sugar. 
Stew  the  gooseberries  in  jiist  ■water  enough  to  cover 
them.  Wben  soft  and  broken,  rub  them  through  a  sieve 
to  remove  the  skins.  While  still  hot  beat  in  tlie  butter, 
Bugar,  and  the  whipped  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Pile  in  a  giasa 
dish,  or  in  small  glasses,  and  heap  upon  tho  top  a  meringue 
of  the  whipped  whites  and  sngar, 

CkEAM    MfiKINGUES. 

4  eggs  (the  whites  only),  whipped  stifi',  with  I  lb.  pow- 
dered sugar. 
Lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring. 
When  vary  stiff,  heap  in  the  shape  of  half  an  egg  upon 
itiff  letter-paper   lining  the  bottom  of  your  baking-pan. 
Have  them  half  an  inch  apart.     Do  not  shut  the  oven- 
door  closdy,  but  leave  a  space  through  which  you  can 
watch  them.     When  they  are  a  light  yellow-brown,  taki 


.dhyGoogle 


CUETAEDS,    BLANC-MANOEB,    ETC.  438 

ihem  out  and  cool  qiiiokly.  Slip  a  thin-bladed  kuife  under 
each  ;  bcoo]>  out  the  soft  inside,  and  fill  with  cream  wliipjie^ 
«s  for  Chajlotte  Russe. 

They  are  very  fine.     The  oven  should  be  very  hot 

Calp's-Foot  Jelly, 
4  calf's  feet,  cleaned  carefully. 
i  quarts  of  water. 

1  pint  of  wine. 

3  cups  of  sugaoT — or  sweeten  to  taate. 
Whites  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten. 

2  teas])oonf>ils  of  nutmeg. 

Juice  of  1  lemon,  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

Boil  the  calf's  feet  in  the  water  until  it  is  reduced  one- 
half;  strain  the  liquor,  and  let  it  stand  ten  or  twelve  hours. 
Skim  off  every  particle  of  the  fat,  and  remove  the  dregs 
melt  slowly  in  a  porcelata  or  hell-metal  kettln  add  the  aea- 
Boning,  sugar,  and  the  whipp  d  whit  of  tho  e^  s  and  boil 
fast  about  twelve  mm  tes  skimmm  well.  St  a  n  through 
a  double  flannel  ba^  pende  I  1  etween  tl  e  four  legs  of  an 
upturned  high  stool  1  a  klesa  chair  the  bonl  t  1  neath. 
Do  not  squeeze  or  shake  t  intilthej  Uy  ease  torunfreely; 
then  slip  out  the  bowl,  and  put  nnder  another,  mto  which 
yon  may  gently  pi-ess  what  remains.  The  first  will  be  the 
cieai-er  jelly,  although  the  second  dripping  will  tasto  quite 
as  well.  Wet  your  moulds,  put  in  the  jelly,  and  set  in 
ft  cool  place. 

There  are  still  some  housekeepers  who  insist  that  the 
jellies  made  from  the  modem  gelatine  are  not  comparable 
in  beauty  and  flavor  to  those  prepared  from  the  genuine 
feet.  Seeing  means  taste  as  well  as  belief  with  thorn,  and 
when  they  handle  and  behold  the  beloved  feet,  they  know 
what  they  are  about.     Gelatine,  they  will  darkly  and  din 


.dhyGoogle 


440  COMMON   SENSE. 

giistfiilly  assert,  is  made  of  horn-sliaviiiga  and  tioofe  anJ  th« 
like,  ami  no  more  fit  to  be  used  for  cookiog  purposes  tiiaoj 
BO  much  glue. 

Nevertlielesa,  while  gelatine  is  so  clean,  bright,  aud  con- 
venient, housewives  who  find  the  days  now  but  half  OB 
long  as  <lid  their  mothers,  despite  labor-saving  machines, 
will  turn  a  deaf  ear  to  these  alarmists,  and  escape  tha 
tedious  process  above-described  by  using  the  valuable  sub 
etitute. 

Wine    Jeu-t,  i^ 

2  lbs.  sugar, 

1  pint  of  wine — pale  sherry  or  white. 

1  pint  of  cold  water. 

1  package  Coxe's  gelatine. 

Juice  of  two  lemons  and  giated  peel  of  one, 

1  quart  of  boiling  water, 

1  good  pinch  of  cinnamon. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  one  hour.  Add  to 
this  the  sugar,  lemons,  and  cinnamon ;  pour  over  all  a  quari 
of  boiling  water,  and  stir  until  the  gelatine  ia  thoroughly 
dissolved.  Put  in  the  wine,  strain  through  a  double  flannel 
bag,  without  squeezing,  wofc  your  moulds  with  cold  water, 
and  set  the  jelly  away  in  them  to  cool. 

OiDER  Jelly.  ^ 

5fay  be  made  by  the  receipt  just  given,  substituting  a 
pint  of  clear,  sweet  cider  for  the  wine. 

Fever  patients  may  use  cider  jeUy  when  wine  is  for- 
bidden, and  they  will  find  this   both   refrealiing  and  nutri 


.dhyGoogle 


oitstaeds,  blaho-mangea,  etc.  441 

Bigd's  Nest  in  Jelly.  ^ 

1  quart  of  jelly,  made  according  to  either  of  the  receipti 
just  given,  hutvith  a  cup  less  of  boiling  water,  thai 
it  may  be  very  firm. 

3  caps  of  whito  blano-mange. 

9  empty  eggshells. 

Fresh  rinds  of  two  oranges, 

■J  cup  of  sugar. 

Cut  the  rind  from  the  oranges  in  long  narrow  strips,  and 
Btew  these  gently  in  enough  water  to  cover  them  nntU  they 
are  tondor.  Add  to  them  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  simmer 
fifteen  minutes  longer  in  the  syrup.  Lay  them  out  \ipon  a 
dish  to  cool,  taking  care  not  to  break  them.  If  you  have 
preserved  orange-peol  ia  the  house,  it  will  serve  yon  tha 
trouble  of  preparing  this. 

The  blanc-mange  should  be  made  the  day  before  you  want 
it,  and  the  eggshells  filled.  The  original  contents,  yojk  and 
■white,  should  be  poured  out  tlu-ough  a  hole,  cot  larger  than 
a  half-dime,  in  the  small  end,  and  the  interior  washed  with 
pure  water,  shaieu  around  well  in  them.  Then  fill  with 
bhinc-mange  and  set  in  a  pan  of  fiour  or  sugar — the  open  end 
up — that  they  may  not  be  jostled  or  overturned. 

KestmomingfiUaglass  dish  two-thirds  full  of  tiio  jelly, 
which  should  be  very  clear,  reserving  a  large  cupful.  Break 
the  shells  from  about  the  blanc-mange,  and  lay  the  artificial 
eggs  upon  the  jelly  so  soon  as  the  latter  is  firm  enough  to 
bear  them.  Pile  theiu  neatly,  but  not  too  high  in  the  mid- 
dle, bearing  in  mind  that  what  is  the  top  now  will  be  the 
bottom  when  the  jelly  is  turned  out.  Lay  the  orange  peel, 
which  represents  straw,  over  these  and  around  them.  Warm 
the  reserved  jelly,  so  that  it  will  flow  readily,  but  do  not 
get  it  hot  J  pour  over  the  straw  and  eggs,  and  set  away  in 
19* 


.dhyGoogle 


^2  COHUON  8BHSE. 

ft  cold  place  to  form.     When  firm,  turn  out  upon  a  glass 
dish  or  salver. 

This  jiretty  and  fanciful  dish  is  yet  easily  made.  Tlie 
materials  are  so  simple  and  inexpensive,  and  the  effect  of  the 
work,  if  deftly  done,  so  pleasing,  that  I  have  no  hesitation 
in  cailing  the  attention  even  of  novices  to  it. 

Wise    Jelly  (hoUed). 
1  box  Coxe's  gelatine,  soated  in  1  pint  of  cold  water  one 

1  quart  of  boiling  water  poured  over  this,  and  stirred 

until  tlie  gelatine  is  dissolved. 
i^  lb,  white  sugar. 

2  lemons— juice  and  peel, 

1  pint  of  wine. 

Put  all  over  the  fire,  boil  up  once  well,  and  strain  through 
B  double  flannel  bag  into  moulds. 

Orange    Jelly, 

2  oranges — ^juice  of  both  and  grated  riud  of  one. 
1  lemon— juice  and  peel. 

I  package  Coxe's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  very  little  water, 

1  pint  boiling  water, 

l-J  cup  sugar,  and  1  small  cup  of  wine. 

I  good  pinch  of  cinnamon. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  the  fruit  into  a  bowj,  and  put  with 
(hem  the  grated  peel  and  the  cinnamon.  Pour  over  them 
the  boiling  water,  cover  closely,  and  let  them  stand  half  an 
hour.  Strain,  add  tho  sugar,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  stir  in 
thti  gelatine,  and,  when  this  is  well  dissolved,  take  the  sauce- 
pan from  the  fire.  Strain  through  a  double  flannel  bag  into 
moulds. 


;dhyGoogle 


lOB-CEEAM  AND  OTHER   ICES.  44d 

Vakiegated    Jelly.  •{• 
1  quart  of  clear  jelly. 

^  teaspooTifnl  prepared  cochineal  or  red  currant  juice, 
1  cup  white  blanc-mange. 

Divide  the  jelly  into  two  equal  portions,  and  color  one 
with  a  very  little  prepared  cochineal,  leaving  the  other  as  it 
is,  of  a  pale  amber.  Wet  a  mould  with  cold  water  and  pour 
m  a  little  of  the  latter.  Set  the  mould  iji  the  ice,  that  tl  e 
jelly  may  harden  quickly,  and  so  soon  at  it  is  firm  poui  m 
carefully  some  of  the  red.  Set  back  upon  the  ice  to  get 
ready  for  the  ambor,  adding  the  two  cokis  m  this  order 
until  you  are  ready  for  the  base,  whiLh  should  be  wider 
than  the  other  stripes,  and  consist  of  the  white  blanc  mange 
Keep  both  jelly  and  blanc-mange  near  the  fire  until  you  have 
filled  the  mould — I  mean,  of  course,  that  intended  for  the 
latest  layers.     Let  all  get  very  fli-m  before  you  turn  it  out. 

You  may  vary  two  moulds  of  this  jelly  by  having  the 
blanc-mange  base  of  one  colored  with  chocolate,  a  narrow 
white  stripe  above  relieving  the  grave  effect  of  the  brown. 

IcE-CSEAM   AND  OTHER   ICES. 

If  you  wish  to  prepare  ice-cream  av  an  hour's  notice,  you 
cannot  do  hetter  than  to  purehase  the  best  patent  freezer 
you  can  procure,  I  had  one  once  which  would  freeze  cream 
admirably  in  half  an  hour.  I  have  forgotten  the  patentee's 
name,  and  perhaps  this  is  well  for  him,  since  truth  would 
oblige  me  to  record  an  unlucky  habit  his  machine  had  of 
letting  out  of  order  just  when  1  wanted  it  to  do  its  best. 
My  earliest  recollectiona  of  ice  cieam  aie  of  the  discordant 
grinding  of  the  well-worn  ireezer  among  the  blocks  of  ice 
(Kicked  about  it — a  monotone  of  mistiy,  that,  had  it  been 
unrelieved  by  agi-eeabje  associatum;,  of  the  goo  J  tc  wliioh  U 


.dhyGoogle 


Wi  COMMON   SENSE, 

was  "  leading  ap,"  would  not  have  been  tolerated  out  of 
Bedlam.  For  one,  two,  tliree,  sometimes  four  liom-s,  it  went 
on  witiiout  other  vaiiety  than  the  harsher  sounds  of  the  fresh 
iee  and  the  rattling  "swash"  as  the  freezer  plunged  amid 
the  icy  bi-ine  when  these  were  nearly  melted  ;  witliont  ces- 
Butioa  save  when  the  unhappy  operator  nodded  over  hia 
work,  or  was  relieved  by  another  predestined  victim  of  lux- 
ury and  ennui — a  battalion  of  the  laziest  juvenUes  upon  the 
place  being  detaUed  for  this  purpose,  I  verily  believed  in 
those  days  that  the  freezing  could  not  be  iacilitated  by 
energetic  action,  and  used  to  thiiik  how  fortunate  it  waa 
that  small  darkeys  had  a  predilection  for  this  drowsy  em- 
ployment. 1  shall  never  forget  my  amazement  at  seeing  a 
brisk  Yankee  housewife  lay  hold  of  the  handle  of  the  pon- 
dcro\ia  tin  cylinder,  and  whirl  it  with  such  wiU  and  celerity, 
back  and  forth,  back  and  forth,  that  the  desired  end  camo 
to  pass  in  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

That  day  has  gone  by.  Time  has  grown  too  ]ireciou8 
now  even  to  juvenile  contrabands  for  them  to  sit  half  the 
day  shaking  a  freeaer  \mder  the  locust-trees  on  tJie  old 
plantation  lawn.  Machines  that  will  do  the  work  in  ono- 
teuth  of  the  time,  with  one-fiftieth  of  the  labor,  are  sold 
at  every  comer.  But,  bo  far  as  I  know,  it  was  reserved  for 
a  nice  old  lady  up  in  the  "  Jersey  "  mountains — the  tidiest, 
thriftiest,  most  cheerful  bee  I  ever  knew — to  show  her  neigh- 
bors and  acqiiaintances  that  ice-cream  could  be  made  to 
freeze  itself.  For  five  or  six  years  I  have  practised  her 
method,  with  such  thankfulness  to  her,  and  such  satisfaction 
to  my  guests  and  family,  that  I  eagerly  embrace  the  op 
(jortunity  of  circulating  the  good  news. 

Self-freezing  Ice-crbam.  A 
1  quart  rich  milk, 
8  eggs — whites  and  yolksbeaten  separately  and  very  light. 


.dhyGoogle 


ICB-CEEAM   AMD   OTHEE   ICES,  445 

4  Clip  3  sugar. 

3  pints  rich  sweet  ercam. 

6  teaspooufuls  vanilla  or  other  seasoning,  or  1  psuiilli 

bean,  broken  in  two,  boiled  in  the  custard,  and  leP 

in  until  it  is  cold. 

Heat  tJie  milk  almost  to  boiling,  beat  the  yolks  IJgbt, 
add  the  sugar,  and  stir  up  well.  Pour  the  hot  milk  to  this, 
little  by  little,  beating  all  the  while  ;  put  in  tho  fi'othed 
whites,  and  return  to  the  fire- — boiling  in  a  pail  or  saiice- 
pan  set  within  one  of  hot  water.  Stir  the  mixture  steadily 
about  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  it  is  thick  as  boiled  custard. 
Pour  into  a  bowl  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  quite  cold, 
beat  in  the  cream,  and  the  flavoring,  unless  you  have  used 
the  bean. 

Have  ready  a  quantity  of  ice,  cracked  in  pieces  not  larger 
than  a  jiigeon  egg— the  smaller  the  better.  You  can  manage 
this  easily  by  laying  a  great  lump  of  ice  between  two  folds 
of  coarse  sacking  or  an  old  carpet,  tucking  it  in  snugly, 
and  battering  it,  through  the  cloth,  with  a  sledge-liammer  or 
mallet  until  fine  enough.  There  ia  no  waste  of  ice,  nor 
need  you  take  tt  in  your  hands  at  all — only  gather  up  the 
corners  of  the  cai'pet  or  cloth,  and  slide  as  much  as  you 
want  into  the  outer  vessel.  Use  an  oniinary  oJd-fashioned 
upright  freezer,  set  in  a  deep  pail ;  pack  around  it  closy'v, 
first,  a  layer  of  pounded  ice,  then  one  of  rock  salt — common 
ealt  mil  not  do.  In  this  order  fill  tlie  pail ;  but  before  cov- 
eidng  the  freezer-lid,  remove  it  carefully  that  none  of  the  salt 
may  get  in,  and,- with  a  long  wooden  ladle  or  flat  stick  (I  had 
one  ma^e  on  purpose),  beat  tlie  custard  as  you  would  hatter, 
for  five  minutes,  without  stay  or  stint.  Keplace  the  lid,  pack 
the  ice  and  salt  upon  it,  patting  it  down  hard  on  top ;  cover 
(ill  witl:  several  folds  of  blanket  or  carpet,  and  leave  it  foi 
one  hour.      Then  remove  the  cover  of  tho  freezer  ■when 


.dhyGoogle 


it6  COMMON   SENSE. 

j'ou  hnvo  wiped  it  carefully  outside.  Ton  will  find  witliin  a 
thick  coating  of  frozen  custard  upon  the  bottom  and  sides. 
Dislodge  tJiia  with  your  ladle,  wliich  should  be  thin  at  the 
lower  end,  or  with  a  long  carving-knife,  working  every 
particle  of  it  clear.  Beat  again  hai'd  and  long  uutil  t!ie 
custard  is  a  smooth,  half-congeaied  paste.  The  smoothneBP 
of  the  ice-cream  depends  upon  your  action  at  this  juncture. 
Put  on  the  cover,  pack  in  more  ice  and  salt,  and  t«m  oif  the 
brine.  Spread  the  double  carpet  over  all  once  more,  having 
buried  the  freezer  out  of  sight  m  ice,  and  leave  it  for  three 
or  four  iioitrs.  Then,  if  the  watei  has  accumulated  in  such 
quantity  as  to  buoy  up  the  fieezei,  pour  it  off,  fill  up  with 
ice  and  salt,  hut  do  not  open  the  fieezer.  In  two  hours 
moi-e  you  may  take  it  from  the  ice,  open  it,  wi-ap  a,  towel, 
wrung  out  in  boiling  water,  about  the  lower  part,  and  turn 
3ut  a  solid  column  of  cream,  firm,  close-grained,  and  smooth 
as  velvet  to  the  tongue. 

Should  the  ice  melt  very  fast,  you  may  Lave  to  turn  off 
the  water  more  than  twice;  but  this  will  seldom  happen 
except  in  very  hot  weather.  You  need  not  devote  fifteen 
minutes  in  all  to  the  business  after  the  custard  is  made. 
You  may  go  into  the  cellar  before  breakfast,  having  made 
the  custard  overnight,  stir  in  the  cold  cream  and  fiavoring, 
get  it  into  the  freezer  and  comfortably  packed  down  hefoi-o 
John  is  through  staving,  and  by  choosing  the  times  for 
your  stolen  visits  to  the  lower  regions,  surprise  him  and 
tile  children  at  a  one-o'clock  dinner  by  the  most  delicious 
dessert  in  the  world.  I  have  often  laughed  in  my  sleeve  at 
seeing  my  John  walk  through  the  cellar  in  search  of  some 
misltdd  basket  or  box,  whistling  carelessly,  without  a  sus- 
picion that  his  favorite  delicacy  was  coolly  working  out  ita 
own  solidification  under  the  inverted  barrel  on  which  [ 
clianccd  to  be  leaning  at  his  entrance. 

Any  of  the  foUo'viog  receipla  for  custard  ice-cream  may 


.dhyGoogle 


ICE-CEKAM   AKD  OTHKK   lOEB.  447 

be  froien  in  like  manner.  Do  not  spare  salt,  and  be  sum 
your  ice  ia  finely  cracked,  and  after  the  second  beating  do 
not  let  tke  air  again  into  the  freezer.  If  you  cannot  get  drj 
rock  salt,  that  wliick  settles  at  the  bottom  of  fiah-barrela 
will  do  as  well.  Keep  the  freezer  hidden,  from  first  to  last, 
by  the  ice  heaped  over  it,  except  when  you  have  to  lift  the 
lid  on  the  occasions  I  have  specified. 

Chocolate  Ice-cream.  "Ji 
1  qnar*  of  cream. 

1  pint  new  milt. 

2  cups  sugar. 

2  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

6  tablespoonfuls  chocolate  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  milk. 

Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling,  and  pour,  by  degrees, 
in  with  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar.  Stir  in  the  chocolate, 
beat  well  three  minutes,  and  return  to  the  inner  kettle. 
Heat  until  it  thickens  well,  stirring  constantly ;  take  from 
the  file  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Many  think  a  little  vanilla 
an  improvement.  "Wben  the  custard  is  cold,  beat  in  tlie 
cream.     Freeze. 

Almond  Ice-ckeam. 

3  oz.  sweet  almonds  an-l  1  oz.  of  bitter,  blanched,  and, 

when  cold,  pounded  to  a  paste,  &  few  at  a  time, 

in  a  Wedgowood  mortar,  adding 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  rosewater  to  prevent  oiling. 
S  pints  cream — fresh  and  sweet. 
Nearly  2  cups  of  siigaj-, 
1  t«blespoonful  of  arrowroot,  wet  up  with  cold  milk. 

Heat  one  pint  cream  almost  to  boHing,  add  the  sugai, 
knd  when  tli^  is  melted,  tlie  almonds.  Simmer  t«n  minutes, 
Btirring  often,  remote  from  the  fire,  and  let  all  stand  to 


.dhyGoogle 


448  COMMON  SEtreB. 

getlier  ten  minutes  longer  In  a  covered  vessel.  Strain  out 
tlie  cream,  pjesstng  the  bag  iia,ril  to  get  tlie  full  flavor  of 
the  almonds,  return  to  the  inner  saucepan  and  stir  in  th* 
arrowroot  until  the  creani  thickens  — say  five  minutes. 
When  cold,  beat  very  light  with  an  egg-whip,  adding  gtad. 
ualiy  the  est  of  the  cream.  It  should  be  light  in  half  an 
hour      Ih  a  f       e 

If  y  u  wish  to  mould  your  creams  in  fancy  shapes,  open 
your  f  tw    h  urs  after  the  second  stirring  an<l  trans- 

fer the  at     a  tight  mould,  having  given  it  o  third 

vigo  u  I  lUj,  Pack  this  down  in  ice  and  salt,  and  let 
it  stand  two  hours  longer  than  you  would  have  done  had 
it  remained  in  the  freezer. 

CoFi^EE  Ice-cream. 

3  pints  of  creani, 

1  cup  black  coffee — very  strong  and  dear, 

2  cups  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ajrowroot,  wet  up  with  cold  milk.  ■ 
Heat  half  the  cream  nearly  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  sugar 
and,  when  this  is  melted,  the  coffee ;  then  the  arrowroot. 
Boil  all  together  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Wheo 
cold,  beat  up  very  light,  whipping  in  the  rest  of  the  cream 
by  degrees.     Then  freeze. 

I  cannot  say  certainly  that  tliis  can  be  frozen  without 
turning,  although  I  see  no  reason  why  it  should  not,  sinca 
the  arrowroot  gives  it  the  consistency  of  custard. 

Italiak  Cream. 
2  pints  of  cream, 
2  cups  of  sugar. 

2  lemons — juice  and  grated  peel, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy. 


.dhyGoogle 


lOE-CEEAM   AND   OTHEE  I0E3.  449 

Sweeten  the  cream  and  beat  in  the  lomons  gradually, 
not  to  curdle  it ;  adil  the  brandy  and  frceae  in  a  pateut 
freezer,  or  by  turning  quickly.  In  turning  the  freezer,  ojiec 
twice  dui-ing  the  operation,  to  stir  and  beat  the  conteuta 
smooth. 

Leuoh  IcE-iniEAii.  •{• 

1  quart  of  cream. 

2  lemon* — the  jiiico  of  one  and  the  grated  peel  of  ona 

and-a-half. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

Sweeten  the  cream,  beat  the  lemon  gradually  into  it^ 
and  jmt  at  once  into  the  freezer.  Freeze  rapidly  in  a 
patent  freezer,  or  the  acid  ia  apt  to  turn  the  milk. 

You  may  make  orange  ice-cream  in  the  same  way. 

Pine-apple  Ioe-okeam.  ■$« 
1  quart  of  cream, 
1  large  ripe  pine-apple. 
1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
Slice  the  pine-appie  thin,  and  scatter  the  sugar  between 
the  slices.     Cover  it,  aiid  let  the  fruit  steep  three  hours. 
Then  cut,  or  chop  it  up  in  the  syrup,  and  strain  it  through 
a  hair  sieve  or  bag  of  double  coarse  lace.     Eeat  gradually 
into  the  cream,  and  freeze  as  rapidly  as  possible. 

You  may,  if  you  like,  reserve  a,  few  pieces  of  pine-apple, 
unsugai'ed,  out  into  square  bits,  and  stir  them  through  the 
cream  when  half  frozen. 

Peacii  Ice-cream  •{« 
Is  very  nice  made  after  tlie  preceding  receipt,  w'th  two  or 
three  handfula  of  freshlj  cut  bits  of  the  fruit  st.''''-ed  iu 
when  the  cream  is  half  frozen. 


;dhyGoogle 


4f*(J  COiaiON   SEK8E. 

ItASiBEEHT  OR  Stbawbeehy  Ice-ceeam,  >J« 
1  quart  ripo  sweet  berries. 
1  lb.  sugar. 
1  quart  fresh  cream. 

Scatter  half  the  sugar  oyer  the  berries  and  let  tLeui 
Btaad  three  hours.  Press  and  mash  them,  aud  strain  them 
through  a  thin  muslin  bag.  Add  the  rest  of  tlie  sugar, 
and  when  dissolved  beat  in  the  cream  little  by  little. 
Freeze  rapidly,  opening  the  freezer  (if  it  is  not  a  patent 
one)  several  times  to  beat  and  stir. 

Or, 
Yoti  maj   have  a  pmt  of  whole  beriies,  unsugaied,  ready 
to  stu   in  when  the  creara  it  frozen  to  the  consistency  of 
stiff  mush       In  this   Case   add   a   cup  moie  sugar  to  the 
quart  of  ciushed  berries. 

Frozen  Custard  with  the  Fkuit  Frozen  in.  4" 
1  quart  milk. 
1  quart  cream, 

6  eggs,  and  3  cups  of  sugar  beaten  up  with  the  yolka. 
1  pint  fresh  peaches,  cut  up  small,  or  fresh  ripe  ber- 

Heat  the  quart  of  milk  almost  to  boiling,  and  add 
gradually  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar.  Whip  in  the 
frothed  whites,  return  to  the  custard-kettle,  and  stir  until 
it  is  a  thick,  soft  custai'd.  Let  it  get  perfectly  cold,  beat  in 
the  cream  and  freeze.  If  you  let  it  freeze  itself,  stir  in  the 
fruit  after  the  second  beating;  if  you  turn  the  freezer,  when 
the  cuatard  is  like  omgealed  mush. 


.dhyGoogle 


lOB-OBBAM  AHD  OTHEH  ICEB.  451 

TuTTi  Frutti  Ice-ceeam.  »{• 
1  pint  of  milk. 
1  quart  of  cream. 

Yolks  of  5  egga — ^beaten  ligKt  witli  the  sugar. 
3  cups  of  sugar. 
1  iemon — jviice  and  grated  peel. 
1  glass  of  pale  sherry,  and  ^  Ih.  crystallized  fruity 
chopped. 

Keat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling;  pour  by  degrees  over 
tl.6  8^8  and  sugar,  beating  all  together  well.  Return  to 
the  fire,  and  boil  ten.  minutes,  or  until  set  into  a  good  cus- 
tard. When  cold,  beat  in  the  cream,  and  half  freeze  before 
you  stir  in  half  a  pound  of  crystallized  fruit — peaches, 
apricots,  cherries,  limes,  etc.,  chopped  very  fine.  Beat  in 
with  these  the  lemon  and  wine ;  cover  again,  and  freeze 

In  all  fruit  ice-creams  the  beating  of  the  custard  shonld 
be  very  bard  and  thorough,  if  you  would  have  them  smooth. 

Lemon  Ice.  •{" 
6  lemons — juice  of  all,  and  grated  peel  of  three. 
1  large  sweet  orange — juice  and  rind, 
1  jiint  of  water. 


Squeeze  oiit  every  drop  of  juice,  and  steep  in  it  the  rind 
of  orange  and  lemons  one  hour.  Strain,  squeezing  the 
bag  dry ;  mix  in  the  sugar,  and  then  the  water.  Stir  until 
dissolved,  and  freeze  by  turning  in  a  freezer — opening  three 
times  to  beat  all  up  together. 


.dhyGoogle 


COMMON    SES8B. 


Ohauqb  Ice.  •{« 


6  oranges — -juice  of  all,  and  gratod  peel  of  thre» 
2  lemons — the  juice  only.  *"■ 

1  pint  of  sugar  dissolved  in  .1  pint  of  ■water. 
Prepare  and  freeze  aa  you  ■would  lemon  ice. 

Pineapple  Ice. 
1  Juicy  ripe  pineapple — i)eeled  and  cut  smalL 
Juice  and  grated  j>eol  of  1  lemou, 
1  pint  of  sugar. 
1     "    water,  or  a  little  less. 

Strew  the  sugar  over  the  pineapple  and  let  it  stand  sji 
hour.  Mash  all  up  together,  and  strain  out  the  syi'up 
tiirougli  a  hair-sieve.     Add  the  water  and  freeze. 

CnERR'i  Ice. 

1  quart  cherries,  with  half  the  stones  pounded   in  s 

Wedge  wood  mortar. 

2  lemons — the  juice  only, 

1  pint  of  water,  in  wliich  dissolve  I  pint  of  sugar. 
I  glass  of  fine  brandy. 

Squeeze  out  the  bruised  cherries  and  stones,  in  a  bag 
over  the  sugar ;  add  the  water,  then  the  brandy,  and 
freeze. 

It  will  require  a  longer  time  to  freeze  thaa  other  iceSj 
on  account  of  the  brandy. 

Currant  and  Easpberky  Ice  (Mne). 
1  quart  red  currants. 
1  pint  raspberries — red  or  white. 


'HnstcdhyGoOgle 


BIPE   FRUIT  FOE   DE88EET.  453 

1  pint  of  water. 
1 J  "    of  sugar. 
Siiueeze  out  the  juice;  iiiis  in.  tlio  sugiir  and  water,  and 

Steawbeery  oe  Raspeekuy  Ice, 
1  qaart  berries.     Extract  tlie  juice  and  strain. 
1  pint  sugar— dissolved  in  tlie  juice, 
I  lemon — juico  only. 
^  pint  of  water. 


RIPE  FKUIT  FOR  DESSERT. 
Oeaxges 
May  be  put  on  whole  in  fruit-baskets,  or  tlie  skin  be 
cut  in  eighths  half  way  down,  aepurated  from  tke  fruit  and 
curled  inward,  showing  half  the  orange  white,  tlie  other 
yellow.  Or,  pass  a  sharp  knife  lightly  around  the  fruit, 
midway  between  tlie  stem  and  blossom  end,  cutting  through 
the  rind  only.  Slip  the  smooth  curved  handle  of  a  tea- 
spoon carefully  between  the  peel  and  body  of  the  orange, 
and  gently  work  it  all  around  until  bofcli  upper  and  lower 
halves  are  free,  excejtt  at  stem  and  blossom.  Turn  the 
rind,  without  tearing  it,  inside  out,  making  a  white  cup  at 
either  end — the  round  white  fruit  between  them. 

Salade  d'Obange, 

Pare  and  slice  large  sweet  oiiingea ;  sprinkle  powdered 
Bugar  thickly  over  each  slice,  and  pour  a  coujile  of  glasses 
of  wine  on  the  top.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  all, 
ukd  serve  at  once,  or  tlie  fruit  will  lose  its  fre.'iliness. 

You  may  omit  the  wine  if  j'Oti  like. 

Do  not  lot  any  fi'uit  intended  to  be  eaten  fresh  for  des 


.dhyGoogle 


COMMON   BEXSE. 


aert  lie  in  the  sugar  loager  than 

It  extracts  the  flavor  and  withers  the  pulp. 


es,  peeled  and  sliced. 
^  grated  cocoanut. 
^  cup  powdered  sugar. 
Arrange  the  orange  in  a  glass  dish,  scatter  the  gi'ated 
cocoanut  thickly  over  it,  sprinkle  this  lightly  with  sugar, 
and  cover  with  another  layer  of  orange.     Fill  up  the  dish 
in  this  order,  having  cocoanut  and  sugar  for  the  top  layer. 
Serve  at  once. 

Apples. 
Wash  and  polish  with  a,  clean  towel,  and  pile  in  a  china 
fruit-basket,  with  an  eye  to  agreeable  variety  of  color. 


AND  Pears, 

Pick  out  the  finest,  handling  as  little  aa  may  he,  and 
pile  upon  a  salver  or  flat  dish,  with  bits  of  ice  between 
them,  and  ornament  with  peach  leaves  or  fennel  si>rig3. 

One  of  the  prettiest  dishes  of  fruit  I  ever  saw  upon  a 
dessert-table  was  an  open  silver  basket,  wide  at  the  top, 
heaped  with  rich  red  peaches  and  yellow  Eartlett  peara, 
interspersed  with  feathery  bunches  of  green,  which  few  of 
those  who  admired  it  knew  for  carrot-tops.  "Wild  white 
clematis  wreathe  i  the  handle  and  showed  hero  and  thei-o 
among  the  fruit,  while  scarlet  and  white  verbenas  nestled 
atnid  the  green. 

Send  around  powdered  sugar  with  the  fiiiit,  as  many 
like  to  dip  peaches  and  pears  in  it  after  paring  and  quu 
tenng  them. 


.dhyGoogle 


BIPE   FKTHT  FOE  DE88EET.  i55 

SrHAWBEERIES,   RlSPBEBElES,    AND    BLACKBERRIES. 

Never  wash  strawberries  or  raspberries  tLat  are  intended 
to  be  eaten  as  fresh  fruit.  If  tliey  are  so  gritty  as  to  require 
this  proc'ess,  keep  them  off  the  table.  You  will  certainly 
ruin  the  flavor  beyond  repair  if  you  wash  them,  and  as  cer- 
laitt.y  induce  instant  fermentation  and  endanger  the  coata 
of  the  eaters'  stomachs,  if,  after  profaning  the  exquisite  deli- 
cacy of  the  iruit  to  this  extent,  you  complete  the  evil  work 
by  covering  them  with  sugar,  and  leaving  them  to  leak  their 
lives  aourly  away  for  oae  or  two  hours. 

Put  them  on  the  table  in  glass  dishes,  piling  them  high 
and  lightly,  send  around  powdered  sugar  with  them  and 
cream,  that  the  guests  may  help  themselves.  It  is  not  eco- 
nomical perhaps,  but  it  is  a  healthful  and  pleasant  style  of 
serving  them — I  had  ahnost  said  the  only  decent  one. 

"  But  I  don't  know  who  picked  them  1  "  cries  Mra 
Fussy. 

Ko,  my  dear  madam  !  nor  do  you  know  who  makes  the 
baker's  bread,  or  confectioner's  cakes,  creams,  jellies,  salads, 
etc.  Nor,  for  that  matter,  how  the  flour  is  manufactured 
out  of  which  you  conjure  your  dainty  biscuit  and  pies:  I 
was  so  fooKsh  as  to  go  into  a  flour-mill  once,  and  having 
seen  a  burly  negro,  naked  to  the  waist,  with  his  trousera 
rolled  up  to  his  knees,  stand  in  a  bank  of  "  fine  family 
flour,"  a  foot  deep  in  the  lowest  part,  on  a  July  day,  shovei- 
Hng  it  into  barrels  for  the  market,  I  rushed  into  the  outer 
air  a  sicker  and  a  wiser  woman. 

I  hnoto  God  made  strawberries.  "  Doubtless,"  says 
Bishop  Butler,  "  He  could  have  made  a  better  berry,  but 
He  never  did  ! "  The  picker's  light  touch  cannot  mar  flavor 
or  beauty,  nor,  were  her  fingers  filthy  as  a  chimney-sweep's, 
could  the  delicate  fruit  sulTer  from  tliem  as  from  your  oar- 
biU'ous  baptism.     You  would  like  to  know  who  picked  tlieni. 


.dhyGoogle 


^6  COMMON    BENBE. 

I  should  inqTiire  instead,  "Who  washed  them,  and  it  what?" 
I  recollect  seeing  a  housekeeper,  who  was  ufdicted  with 
your  inquiring  turn  of  mind,  wash  strawberrifis  ia  a  wash 
band  basin ! 

CuBRANTS  ASD  Easpbesries. 
Pick  the  cuiTants  from  the  stems,  and  mix  with  an  eqna, 
quantity  of  raspberries.    Put  into  a  glass  bowl,  and  eat  with 
powdered  sugar. 

PKOSTED    CultRANTS. 

Pick  fine  even  bunches,  and  dip  them,  one  at  a  time,  into 
a  ndxture  of  frothed  white  of  egg,  and  a  very  little  cold 
water.  Drain  them  until  nearly  dry,  and  roll  in  pulverized 
sugar.  Eepeat  the  dip  in  the  sugar  once  or  twice,  and  lay 
them  npon  whito  paper  to  dry.  They  make  a  beautiful 
garnish  for  jellies  or  charlottes,  and  look  well  heaped  in  a 
dish  by  themselves  or  with  otlier  fruit. 

Pluius  and  grapes  are  very  nice  frosted  in  the  same 


PKESEEVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES. 
Uso  none  but  porcelain,  or  good  hell-metal  kettles  for 
preserves  and  jollies  If  the  latter,  clean  thoroughly  just 
before  you  put  ia  the  syrup  or  fruit.  Scour  with  sand, 
then  set  it  over  the  fire,  with  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  a  large 
handful  of  salt  in  it.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil,  and  scour  the 
whole  of  the  inside  of  the  kettle  with  it.  Do  not  let  your 
preserves  or  anything  else  stand  one  moment  in  it  after  it 
ia  withdrawn  from  the  fire ;  fill  the  emptied  kettle  instantly 
with  water  and  :n-ask  it  peifectly  clean,  although  you  may 
mettn  to  return  the  syrup  to  it  again  in  five  minutes.  By 
observing  these  precautions,  preaen'ea  ani  pickles  made  In 


;dhyGoogle 


PBB8EEVES   A^D   FECIT  JELLIES.  457 

bell-metal  may  be  rendered  as  good  and  wLolesomo  as  if 
the  frailer  porcelain  be  used, 

TTse  only  fine  sugar  for  nice  preserves.  Moist  or  dark 
sugar  cannot  be  made  to  produce  the  same  effect  as  dry 

Do  not  buriy  any  needful  step  in  tlie  process  of  preserv- 
ing. Prepare  your  fruit  with  cai'e,  weigh  accurately,  and 
aibw  time  enough  to  do  your  work  well.  Put  up  tlie  pre- 
serves in  small  jars  in  preference  to  largo,  and,  when  once 
made,  keep  them  in  a  cool,  daa.-k  closet  that  is  perfectly 
dry.  Keep  jellies  in  small  stone  china  jars,  or  glass  tum- 
blers closely  covered.  Yoa  can  procure  at  most  china  and 
glass  stores,  or  hoiise-fuiiiislmig  establishments,  metal 
covers  with  elastic  rims  for  these,  wliich  can  be  used  from 
year  to  year. 

Cover  jellies  and  jama  with  tissue  paper,  double  and 
wet  with  brandy,  pressed  closely  to  tlie  conserve  before  you 
put  on  the  lid,  or  paste  on  the  tliick  paper.  Examine  your 
shelves  fi-eqnently  and  narrowly  for  a  few  weeks  to  see  if 
your  preserves  are  keeping  well.  If  there  is  the  least  sign 
of  fermentation,  boil  them  over,  adding  more  sugar. 

If  jellies  are  not  so  firm  after  six  or  eight  hours  as  you 
would  have  them,  set  them  in  the  sun,  witli  bits  of  window 
glass  over  them  to  keep  out  tlie  dust  and  insects.  Remove 
these  at  night  and  wipe  off  the  moisture  collected  on  the 
under  side,  Kepeat  this  every  day  until  the  jelly  slirinks 
into  firmness,  filling  up  one  cup  from  another  as  need  re- 
quires. This  method  is  far  preferable  to  boiling  down, 
which  both  injures  the  flavor  and  darkens  the  jelly, 

Presekved  Peaches,  i^ 
Weigh   the   fruit  after  it  is   pared   and  tiie  stones   ex- 
tracted, and  allow  a  poimd  of  sugar  to  every  one  of  peaches. 
Crack  one  ijuaitcr  of  the  stones,  extract  the  kernels,  break 


.dhyGoogle 


458  COMMON   BKNaS. 

them  to  pieces  and  boil  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them, 
until  soft,  when  set  aside  to  steep  in  a  covered  vessel.  Put 
a  layer  of  sugar  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  then  one  of 
fiTiit,  and  so  on  until  you  have  used  up  all  of  both  ;  set  it 
where  it  will  warm  slowly  until  the  sugar  is  molted  and  the 
fruit  hot  through.  Then  strain  the  kernel-water  and  add 
it,  Eoil  steadily  until  the  peaches  are  tender  aad  clear. 
Take  them  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer  and  lay  upon 
large  flat  dishes,  crowding  as  little  as  possible.  Boil  the 
syrup  almost  to  a  jelly— that  is,  until  clear  and  thick,  skim- 
ming off  all  the  scum.  FiU  your  jars  two-thirds  full  of  the 
peaches,  pour  on  the  boiling  syrup,  and,  when  cold,  cover 
with  brandy  tissue-paper,  then  with  cloth,  lastly  with  thick 
paper  tied  tightly  over  them. 

The  peaches  should  be  ready  to  take  off  after  half  an 
hour's  boUing ;  the  syrup  be  boiled  fifteen  minutes  longer, 
fast,  and  often  stirred,  to  throw  up  the  scum.  A  few  slices 
of  pineapple  cut  up  with  the  peaches  flavor  them  finely. 

Pke SERVED  Pears 
Are  put  up  precisely  as  are  peaches,  but  are  only  pared,  not 
divided.     Leave  the  stems  on. 

Peach  Maemalade.  ■{« 
Pare,  stone,  and  weigh  the  fruit ;  heat  slowly  to  draw 
out  the  juice,  stirring  up  often  from  the  bottom  with  a 
wooden  spoon.  After  it  is  hot,  boi!  quickly,  still  stiiTing, 
three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Add,  then,  the  sugar,  allowing 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  to  each  pound  of  the  fruit,  Eoil 
up  well  for  five  minutes,  taking  off  every  particle  of  scum. 
Add  the  juice  of  a,  lemon  for  every  three  pounds  of  fruit, 
wid  the  water  in  which  one-fourth  of  the  kernels  have  been 
boiled  and  steeped.     Stew  all  together  ton  minutes,  stirring 


.dhyGoogle 


PUESEEVES   AND   FETJIT  JELLIES.  469 

to  a  amoctb  paste,  and  take  from  the  fire.  Put  up  hot  in 
air-tight  cans,  or,  wiien  cold,  in  small  stone  or  glass  jars, 
with  bi-amlied  tissue-paper  fitted  neatly  to  the  surface  of  the 
mnrmaJade. 

A  lar^,  ripe  pineapple,  pared  and  cut  up  fine,  and  stir- 
rod  with  the  peaches,  is  »  fine  addition  to  the  flavor. 

Preseeved  Quinces.  •{« 
Choose  fine  yellow  qumcea  Paie,  quirt^r,  and  core 
them,  saving  both  skm^  and  coiet,  Put  the  quinces  o-ier 
the  fire  with  just  enough  ivater  to  coier  them,  and  sinimoc 
until  they  are  soft,  but  not  until  they  begin  to  break  Tale 
them  out  carefully,  and  spicid  them  upon  broad  dishes  ffl 
cool.  Add  the  pann£,s,  seed,  and  coie«,  to  the  water  in 
which  the  quinces  were  boiled,  and  stew,  cIospIj  co\ered, 
for  an  hour.  Strain  through  ajelly  b,ig,  and  to  fiery  pint 
of  tliis  liquor  allow  a  pound  of  sugir  Eoil  up  and  slim  it 
put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Take  all  from  the 
fire  and  pour  into  a  large  deep  pan.  Cover  closely  and  let 
it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Drain  off  the  syrup  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil;  put  in  the  quinces  carefully  aiid  boil  another 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Take  them  up  as  dry  as  possible,  and 
again  spread  out  upon  dishes,  setting  these  in  the  hottest 
sunshine  you  can  find.  Boil  the  syrup  umjl  it  begins  to 
jelly;  fill  the  jars  two-thirds  full  and  cover  witli  the  syrup. 
The  preserves  should  be  of  a  fine  red.  Cover  with  biandiod 
tisBiie-paper, 

Phbserved  ApriES. 

Firm,  well-flavoi-ed  pippins  or  boU-flowor  ajijile.s  maka 

an   excellent    preserve,   prepared    in   the   same   manner  as 

quinces.     A  few  quinces  cut  up  among  them,  or  the  juice 

of  two  lemons  to  every  three  pounds  of  fpiit  improve* 


;dhyGoogle 


160  comuok  sense. 

Quince  Marmalade.  »J« 
Pare,  core,  and  slice  tho  qiaiacea,  stewing  the  skins,  cotea^ 
end  seed  in  a  vessel  by  themselves,  with  just  euoiigh  water 
to  cover  them.  When  this  has  sirameied  long  enough  to 
extract  all  the  flavor,  and  tlie  parings  are  brokea  to  pieces, 
strain  off  the  water  through  a  tliick  cloth.  Put  the  quincea 
into  the  preserve-kettle  when  this  water  is  almost  cold,  poui 
it  over  them  and  boil,  stirring  and  masking  the  fruit  with 
a  wooden  spooo  as  it  becomes  soft.  The  juice  of  two 
oranges  to  every  three  jioiinds  of  the  fi-uit  imiiai-ts  an  agree- 
able flavor,  When  you  have  reduced  all  to'a  smooth  paste, 
stir  in  a  scant  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  every 
pound  of  fruit;  boil  ten  minutes  more,  stiri-ing  constantly. 
Take  off,  and  when  cool  put  into  small  jars,  with  brandied 
papers  over  them. 

Quince  Cheese 
Is  marmalade  boiled  down  wry  tkick,  packed  into  small 
pots.     It  will  turn  out  firm  as  cheese,  and  can  be  cut  ia 
slices  for  luncheon  or  tea. 

Apple  Butteh- 
This  is  generally  made  by  the  large  quantity.  - 
Boil  down  a  kettleful  of  cider  to  two-thii'ds  the  origi- 
nal quantity  Pare,  core,  and  slice  juicy  apples,  and  put  as 
many  into  the  cider  as  it  will  cover.  Boil  slowly,  stirring 
often  with  a  flat  stick,  and  when  the  apples  are  tender  to 
breaking,  take  them  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  drain- 
ing well  against  the  sides  of  the  kettle.  Put  in  a  second 
supply  of  apples  and  stew  them  soft,  as  many  as  the  cider 
will  hold.  Take  from  the  fli-e,  pour  all  together  into  a  tub 
or  large  crock  ;  cover  and  let  it  stand  twelve  hours.  Then 
return  to  the  kettle  and  boil  down,  stirring  xli  the  whila 


.dhyGoogle 


461 

nntil  it  is  the  consistency  of  soft  soap,  and  brown  in  color 
-Yon  may  spice  to  taste  if  you  please. 

Kteii  ill  stone  jars  in  a  diy,  cool  place.  It  should  keep 
all  winter, 

Peesekved  Crab-apples,  ■{« 

Tlie  red  SibeHan  crab  is  best  for  this  pnrjiose.  Pick 
out  those  that  are  nearly  perfect,  leaving  Hie  steiria  on,  and  put 
into  a  preserve-kettle,  with  enough  warm  water  to  cover 
them.  Heat  this  to  boiling,  slowly,  and  simmer  until  the 
skins  break.  Drain  and  skin  them;  then,  with  a  penknife, 
extract  the  cores  through  the  blossom  ends.  Weigh  tbem ; 
allow  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar  and  a  teaeupful  of 
wuter  to  every  poiind  of  fruit.  EoU  the  water  and  sugar 
togetlier  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise ;  put  in  the  fruit,  cover 
the  kettle,  and  simmer  until  the  apples  are  a  clear  red,  ajid 
tender.  Take  out  with  a  skimmer;  spread  upon  dishes 
to  cool  and  harden ;  add  to  the  sjT^p  the  juice  of  one  lemon 
to  three  pounds  of  fniit,  and  boil  until  clear  and  rich.  Fill 
your  jai-s  thi-eo-quarters  full  of  the  apples,  pour  the  eynvji 
in,  and,  when  cool,  tie  up. 

PbESEEVED   GEEEff-GAGES  AND   LaeOE   PuKPLE   FlUUS.    bJ* 

Weigh  the  fruit  and  scald  in  boiling  water  to  make 
ihe  skins  come  off  easily.  Let  them  stand  in  a  targe  bowl 
an  hour  after  they  are  peeled,  that  the  juice  may  exude. 
Drain  tliia  off;  lay  the  plums  in  tlie  kettle,  alternately 
with  layers  of  sugar,  allowing  pound  for  pound ,  puur  the 
juice  over  the  top  and  heat  slowly  to  a  boil  Take  out  the 
plums  at  this  point,  very  carefully,  with  a  perforated  skim 
mer,  draining  them  well  through  it,  and  spieid  upon  bioad 
dishes  in  the  sun.  Boil  the  syrup  until  thick  and  cleai, 
Bkiniming  it  faithfully.  Return  the  plums  to  this,  and  bull 
ten  minutes.     Spread  out  again  imtil  cool  and  lirm ;  keep 


.dhyGoogle 


ing  tlie  BjTup  hot  on  tlie  fii'o,  fi?I  yowr  jais  fchree-quarterj 
lull  witii  tlie  fniit ;  pour  on  the  scalding  syruj),  cover  to 
baep  ia  tlie  heat,  and,  wheu  colli,  tie  up. 


If  you   do    not    care    to    take  the.  trouble  of  p 

fruit,  prick  it  in  several  places  with  a  needle,  and  proceed 

a.n  directed. 

Unique  Pkeservds. 
Gather  yo«ng  cucunibers,  a  little  longer  than  youi 
middle  finger,  and  lay  in  strong  brine  one  week. 
Wash  them  and  soak  a  day  and  a  night  in  fair  water, 
changing  this  four  times.  Line  a  bell-metal  kettle  with 
vine-leaves,  lay  in  the  cucumberK,  with  a  little  alum  scat- 
tered among  them ;  fill  up  with  clear  water ;  cover  with 
vine-leaves,  then  with  a  close  lid,  and  green  as  for  pickles. 
Do  not  let  them  boil.  "When  well  greened,  drop  in  ice- 
water.  When  perfectly  cold,  wipe,  and  with  a  small  kuife 
slit  down  one  side ;  dig  out  the  seeds  ;  stuff  with  a  mixture 
of  chopped  raisins  and  citron ;  sew  «p  the  incision  with 
fine  thread.  Weigh  them,  and  make  a  syrup,  allowing  a 
poimd  of  sugar  for  every  one  of  cucumbers,  with,  a  pint 
of  water.  Heat  to  a  lively  boil,  skim,  and  drop  in  the 
fruit.  Simmer  half  an  hour,  take  out  and  spread  upon 
a  dish  in  the  sun  while  you  boil  down  the  syrup,  with  a 
few  slices  of  ginger-root  added.  When  thick,  put  in  the 
cucumbers  again ;  simmer  five  minutes  and  put  up  in  glass 
jars ;  tying  them  up  when  cold. 

An  odd,  but  also  a  singularly  delicious  sweetmeat, 

Damsoss 


Are  put  up  in  the  same  manner  as  plums,  but  priiked, 
instead  of  skinned. 


.yGoogle 


PKEBERVES   AND   FEDIT   JELLIES.  4B3 

Presehved  Oeange  Peel.     (  Veri/  nice.) 
Weigh  the  oranges  whole,  and  allow  pound  for  poimd. 

Peel  the  oranges  neatly  and  cut  the  rind  into  narrow  shreda. 

Boil  until  tender,  changing  the  water  twice,  and  replenish. 

ing  with  hot  from  the  kettle.     Squeeze  the  strained  juice 

of  the  oranges  over  the  sugar ;  let  this  heat  to  a  boil ;  put 

in  the  shz'eds  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 

iLenion  peel  can  be  |)i-es6rved  ia  the  same  way,  allowing 

more  sugar. 

Orange  Malimalade. 
Allow  pound  for  pound.  Pare  half  the  oranges  and  cut 
the  rind  into  shreds.  Boil  in  three  waters  untU  tender, 
and  set  aside.  Grate  the  rind  of  the  remaining  oranges  ; 
take  off  and  throw  away  every  bit  of  the  tliick  white  inner 
skin ;  quarter  all  the  oranges  and  take  out  the  seeds. 
Cliop,  or  cut  them  into  smaO  pieces  ;  drain  all  the  juice 
that  will  come  away,  without  pressing  them,  over  the  sugar ; 
heat  this,  stirring  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  adding  a  very 
little  water,  unless  the  oranges  are  very  juicy.  Boil  and 
skim  five  or  six  minutes  ;  put  in  tlie  boiled  shreds,  and 
cook  ten  minutes  ;  then  the  chopped  fruit  and  grated  peel, 
wid  boil  twenty  miniites  longer.  When  cold,  put  into  small 
jars,  tied  up  with  bladder  or  with  paper  next  the  fmit, 
cloths  dipj«d  in  wax  o\'er  all.  A  nicer  way  still  is  to  put 
away  iii  tumblers  with  self-adjusting  metal  tops.  Press 
brandied  tissue-pajier  down  closely  to  the  fruit. 

Lemon    Marmalade. 
fa  made  as  you  would  prepare  (>range — Mlowing  a  pouno 
und  a  quarter  of  sugar,  to  a  pound  of  the  fruit,  and  using 
but  luilf  the  grated  peeL 


.dhyGoogle 


St"  COMMON   BEN8B. 

Preserved  Pineapple,  ■{■ 
Pare,  cut  into  slices,  tafee  out  the  core  of  each  ote,  aait 
weigh,  allowing  pounil  for  pound  of  sugar  and  fruit.  Vni 
in  aJtemate  layers  in  the  kettle  and  pour  in  water,  allowing 
ft  teacupfiU  to  each  pouud  of  sngai-.  Heat  to  a  boil ;  take 
out  the  pineapi)le  and  spread  ujion  dishes  in  the  siin. 
Boil  and  skim  the  syrup  half  an  hour.  Eetum  tlie  pine- 
apple to  the  kettle  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Take  it  out, 
pack  in  wide-mouthed  jars,  pour  on  the  scalding  syrup ; 
cover  to  keep  in  the  heat,  and,  when  cold,  tie  up,  flint  put- 
ting hnmdied  tiasue-paper  upon  the  top. 

Pineapple  Marmaladb. 
Pare,  slice,  core,  and  weigh  the  pineapi)le ;  then  cut 
into  small  hits.  Make  a  syrup  of  a  teacup  of  water  to  two 
pounds  of  sugar;  melt,  and  heat  to  a  boil.  Heat  tlio 
chopped  pineapple  in  a  vessel  set  within  one  of  boilin" 
water,  covering  it  closely  to  keep  in  the  flavor.  When  it 
is  smoking  hot  all  through,  and  begins  to  look  clear,  add 
to  the  syrup.  EoU  together  half  an  hour,  stirring  all  the 
while,  or  until  it  is  a  clear,  bright  paste. 

Preservkd  Citrok  oa  WATEI^MELON  Kind, 
Pare  off  the  green  skin,  and  the  soft,  white,  inner 
rind.  Cut  into  strips  or  into  fanciful  shapes.  Allow  a 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  rind. 
IJne  your  kettle  with  vine-leaves  and  fill  with  the  rind, 
scattering  a  little  pulverized  alum  over  each  layer.  Cover 
with  vine-leaveSj  three  thick ;  pour  on  water  enough  to  reach 
and  wet  these,  and  lay  a  close  lid  on  the  top  of  tho  kettle 
Let  all  st«am  together  for  three  hours ;  hut  ths  water 
must    not    actually    boQ.       Take    out    your    rind,    wliich 


.dhyGoogle 


PEBSEEVEB   AHD  FEUIT  JELLIEB.  465 

ihoiild  be  well  greened  by  tlus  process,  and  tii-ow  at  cnca 
into  vary  cold  water.  It  sLould  lie  in  soaJt,  changing  tha 
water  every  Lour,  for  four  liours. 

For  tte  syi-up,  allow  two  eupg  of  water  to  a  pound  cud 
a.  quarter  of  sugar.  Boil,  and  skim  it  uatil  no  more  scum 
conies  Hp ;  put  in  the  rind,  and  simmer  gently  nearly  an 
hour.  Take  it  out,  and  spread  upon  dishes  in  the  aur 
until  firm  ajid  almost  cool.  Simmer  in  the  syrup  for  half 
am  hour ;  spread  out  again,  and,  when  firm,  put  into  a  larga 
bowl,  and  pour  over  it  the  scalding  synip. 

Twelve  hours  later  put  the  syrup  again  over  the  fire 
adding  tlie  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  tiny  strip  of  ginger-root 
for  every  poimd  of  rind.  Boil  down  until  tWck  ;  pack  tha 
rind  in  jars  and  pour  over  it  the  syrup.     Tie  up  when 

A  veiy  hnndsome  sweetmeat,  although  rather  insipid  in 
flavor.  The  reader  can  judge  whether,  as  the  charity  boy 
said  of  the  ali>habet,  and  the  senior  "VVeller  of  matrimony, 
it  ia  worth  while  to  go  through  so  much  and  get  so  Uttle. 

Pkkskkved  Ginger.  •{• 
Pare  the  roots  of  green  ginger  and  lay  in  cold-water  fif- 
teen minutes.  Boil  in  three  waters,  changing  the  hot  for 
cold  every  time,  until  very  tender ;  drain,  and  lay  in  ice- 
water.  For  the  syrup,  allow  a  pound  and  a  quai-ter  of 
sugar  for  every  pound  of  ginger,  and  a  ciipful  of  water  for 
iiach  pound  of  sugar.  Boil,  and  skim  until  the  scum  ceases 
to  rise.  When  the  syrup  is  cold,  wipe  the  ginger  dry  aud 
dnip  it  in.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Drain  off  and 
relieat  the  syrup.  TTiis  time  put  the  ginger  in  when  blood 
warm.  Do  not  look  at  it  again  for  two  days.  Then  reboi] 
the  ayrup,  and  pour  over  the  ginger  scalding  hot.  In  a 
week  drain  off  once  more,  boil,  and  add  again  while  hot  i< 


.dhyGoogle 


lb(i  COMMON   6EH8B. 

the  ginger ;    co-ser  closely.      It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  fort 
uiglit. 

Preserved  Ohekkies.  ►{■ 

Stone  the  clierries,  preserving  every  drop  of  juie*. 
Weigh  tlie  fruit,  allowing  pound  for  pound  of  sugar.  Put 
a  layer  of  fruit  for  one  of  sugar  until  all  is  used  u]> ;  ponr 
over  the  juice  and  boil  gently  until  the  syrup  begins  to 
thicken. 

The  shortr^em  red  cherries  or  tlie  Morellas  are  best  foi 
preserves.     Sweet  cherries  will  not  do. 

Pbeserved  Steawberkies,  ■!« 
PouDd  for  pound.  Put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  over 
a  slow  fire  until  tlie  sugar  melts.  Boil  twenty-five  minutes, 
fast.  Take  out  the  fruit  in  a  perforated  skimmer  and  fill 
a  number  of  small  cans  tJiree-quarters  full.  Boil  and  skim 
the  ayrup  five  minutes  longer,  fill  up  the  jars,  and  seal  wliilo 
hot. 

Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Strawberry  Jam.  ■}« 
For  every  pound  of  liTiit  ttree-quarters  of  a  pound'of 

1  pint  red  currant  juice  to  every  4  pounds   strawher- 

Boil  the  juice  of  the  currants  with  the  strawberries  half 
Bn  hour,  stining  all  the  time.  Add  the  sugar,  and  boil 
up  rapidly  for  about  twenty  minutes,  skimming  carefully 
Put  in  small  jars,  with  brandied  tissue-paper  over  the  top. 

You  can  omit  the  currant  juice,  but  the  flavor  will  not 
be  BO  fine, 


.dhyGoogle 


peebeeve9  and  fkdit  jellies.  467 

Easpbeuby  Jam.  hJ. 
}  lb.  of  sugar  to  every  lb.  fruit. 
Put  the  fruit  on  alone,  or  with  the  addition  of  a  pint  of 
ciii-rant  juice  to  every  fonr  pounds  of  fruit.  Boil  half  ao 
honnj-  mashing  and  stirring  well.  Add  the  sugar,  and  cook 
twenty  minutes  more.  Blackberry  jam  is  very  nice  made 
as  above,  leaving  out  the  currant  juice. 

Gooseberry  Jam 
Is  made  in  the  same  maimer  as  raspberry,  only  the  cur- 
rant  juice  is  omitted,  and  the  gooseberries  boiled  one  hour 
without  the  fruit,  and  another  after  it  is  put  in.     The  fruit 
must  be  ripe. 

EiPE  Tomato  Peeserves.  •{. 

7  lbs.  round  yellow,  or  egg  tomatoes— peeiei/. 

7  lbs,  sugar,  and  juice  of  3  lemons. 
Let  theia  stand  together  over  night.  Drain  off  the  syi-up 
and  boil  it,  sldmming  well.  Put  in  the  tomatoes  and  boil 
gently  twenty  minutes.  Take  out  tlio  fruit  with  a  perfo- 
rated skimmer,  and  spread  upon  dishes.  Boil  the  syrup 
down  until  it  thickens,  adding,  just  before  you  take  it  up, 
the  juice  of  three  lemons.  Put  the  fruit  into  the  jaxs  and 
fill  up  with  tot  syrup.     When  cold,  seal  or  tie  up. 

Green  Tomato  Pbbsekves,     (Good.) 
8  lbs.  small  green  tomatoes.     Pierce  each  with  a  fork. 
7  lbs.  sugar. 

4  lemons — the  juice  only, 
I  oz.  ginger  and  mace  mixed. 
Heat  all   together  slowly,   and   boil  until  the  fruit  u 
elear.     Take  it  from  the  kettle  in  a  perforated  skimnier 


.dhyGoogle 


a68  COMMON    SFNSE. 

and  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool.     Boil  tke  syrup  thick.    Pul 
the  fruit  into  jms  and  cover  with  hot  syrup. 

Pbeseuved  Tigs.  ■{" 

The  weight  of  ripe  figs  in  sugar. 

Peel  of  one  lemon  and  juice  of  two. 

A  little  ginger. 
Cover  the  figa  with  cold  water  for  twelve  houra.  ThiMi 
Bimraer  in  water  enough  to  cover  tliem  until  tender,  and 
spread  out  upon  a  sieve  to  cool  and  harden.  Make  a  syrup 
of  the  su^ar,  and  a  cup  of  cold  water  for  every  pound. 
Boil  until  clear  of  scum ;  put  in  the  figs  and  simmer  ten 
minutes.  Take  them  out  and  spread  upon  dishes  in  the 
sun.  Add  the  lemons  and  ginger;  boil. the  syrup  thick; 
give  the  figs  another  boil  of  fifteen  minutes,  and  £11  the 
jara  three-quarters  of  the  way  to  the  top.  Fill  up  with 
boiling  syrup,  cover,  and,  when  cold,  seal  up. 

Baked  Afples.  ^ 
Cut  out  the  blossom  end  of  sweet  apples-^Campfields  or 
Pound  Sweets — with  a  sharp  penknife;  wash,  but  do  not 
pare  them ;  pack  them  in  a  large  pudding-dish ;  pour  a  cup- 
ful of  water  in  tlie  bottom,  cover  closely  with  another  dish 
or  pan ;  sot  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  steam  imtil  tender  all 
through.  Pour  the  liquor  over  them  while  hot,  and  repeat 
this  as  they  cool.  Set  on  the  ice  several  hours  before  t«a, 
and,  when  you  are  ready,  transfer  them  to  a  glass  dish, 
pouring  the  juice  over  them  again.  Eat  with  powdered 
sugar  and  cream.  Apples  baked  in  tliis  way  are  more  ten- 
der and  digestible,  and  better  fla  vored,  than  those  baked  in 
Bu  open  vessel.     Campfiolds  are  par^culaily  good. 


.dhyGoogle 


fhebeeve8  akd  pkuit  jellies.  469 

Apples  Stewed  Whole.  »J« 

Pare,  aud  with  a  small  knife  extract  the  cores  of  fiiia 
jtdcy  apples  that  are  not  too  tart;  put  in  a  deep  dish  with 
JTiat  enough  water  to  cover  them;  cover  and  hake,  or  atew, 
in  a  moderate  oven,  until  they  aro  tender  and  clear ;  take 
out  th^  apples,  put  in  a  bowl,  and  cover  to  keep  Uot;  put 
the  juice  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  cupful  of  sugai-  for  twelve 
apples,  and  boil  half  aa  hour.  Season  with  nmce,  ginger, 
or  whole  cloves,  adding  the  spice  ten  minutes  before  you 
remove  tlie  syrup  from  the  fii-e.  Pour  scalding  over  tke 
apples,  and  cover  untU  cold. 

Eat  witli  cream. 

Baked  Pears. 
Sweet  pears  may  be  baked  just  as  sweet  apples  are-- 
V  e.,  steamed  without  being  pared  or  cored. 

Or, 
It  large,  cut  in   half,   put   into  a  deep   dish,  with   a  very 
little   water;    s|iriukl6   tliem   with   sugar,  and  put   a    few 
cloves,  or  bits  of  cinnamon,  or  a  pinch   of  ginger   among 
them.     Cover  closely,  and  bake  until  tender. 

Stewed  Pears.  bJ* 
If  small  and  lipe,  cut  out  the  fclosaom-end,  withoui 
paring  or  coriirg;  put  into  a  sauce])an,  with  enough  water 
to  cover  them,  and  stew  until  tender;  add  a  half  cupful 
of  sugar  for  every  quart  of  pears,  and  stew  all  together  ten 
minutes ;  take  out  the  pears,  lay  in  a  covered  bowl  to  keep 
warm;  add  to  the  syrup  a  little  ginger  or  a  few  cloves; 
boil  fifteen  minutes  longer,  and  pour  over  the  fruit  hot. 


.dhyGoogle 


If  tlie  ]>ear8  are  not  qiiite  ripe,  bwt  Lard  and  disposed 
to  be  tougii,  peel  them,  cut  out  the  blossom-end,  leaving  on 
the  stems,  aiid  stew  until  tender  in  enough  water  to  covet 
them.  Take  them  out,  set  by  in  a  covered  dish  to  keep 
wann ;  add  to  the  liquor  in  the  saucepan  an  equal  quantity 
of  the  best  molasses  ajid  a  little  ginger ;  boil  half  an  hour, 
skim,  and  return  the  pears  to  the  saucepan.  Stew  all  to- 
gether twenty  minutes,  and  pour  out. 

These  are  very  good,  and  ■will  keep  a  week  or  more 
even  in  ■warm,  weather,  I  have  canned  them  while  boiling 
hot,  and  kept  them  sweet  a  whole  year. 

Baked  Quinces, 

Pare  and  quarter;  extract  the  seeds  and  stew  the  fruit 
in  clear  water  until  a  straw  will  pierce  them ;  put  into  a 
baking-dish  with  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  to  every  eight 
quinces;  pour  over  tliem  the  liquor  in  which  they  were 
boiled;  cover  closply,  aud  steam  in  the  oven  one  hour;  take 
out  the  quinces,  lay  them  in  a  covered  bowl  to  keep  warm  ; 
return  the  syrup  to  the  saucepan,  and  boil  twenty  minutes ; 
pour  over  the  quinces,  and  set  away  covered  to  cool. 

Eat  cold. 


FRUIT  JELLIES. 

fllltANT     PLMkBEREY,   fciTRAWBEERY,   ETC,  1^ 

Put  the  fruit  mto  a  stone  jar,  •5et  this  in  a  kettlo  of 
tepid  watei,  and  j  ut  it  uj  on  the  fire  Let  it  boO,  closely 
eovered,  until  the  ''luit  is  broken  fa  j  leces;  strain,  pressing 
the  bag  (i  stout  coatse  one)  hard,  putting  in  but  a  few 
hauifuls  jt  a  tune,  aud   bctw   cii  each  spieezing  turning  it 


.dhyGoogle 


FEUrr  JELLIEe.  47] 

insido  OTit  to  scald  off  the  pulji  and  skins.  To  each  pint  of 
j«ice  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Set  the  jaice  on  alone  to 
boil,  and  while  it  is  warming  divide  the  sugar  into  severa) 
diffei-ent  portions,  and  put  into  sLaUow  pie-dishea  or  pans  that 
will  fit  in  youi-  ovens ;  heat  in  these,  opening  the  ovens  now 
Bml  then  to  stir  it  and  prevent  burning.  Boil  the  juica 
j  ust  twenty  minutes  from  the  moment  it  begins  fairly  to  boil. 
By  this  time  the  sngar  should  be  so  hot  you  cannot  bear 
your  hand  in  it.  Should  it  melt  around  the  edges,  do  not 
be  alarmed.  The  burned  parts  will  only  form  into  lumps 
in  the  syrup,  and  can  easDy  be  taken  out.  Throw  tlie  sugar 
into  the  boiling  juice,  stirring  rapidly  all  the  while.  °It 
will  "hiia"  as  it  falls  in,  and  melt  very  quickly.  With- 
draw your  spoon  when  you  are  sure  it  is  dissolved.  Let 
the  jelly  just  come  to  a  boO,  to  make  all  certain,  and  take 
the  kettle  instantly  from  the  fire.  Roll  your  glasses  or 
cups  in  hot  water,  and  fill  with  the  scalding  Hquid.  If 
these  dii-eetions  be  strictly  followed,  and  the  fmit  is  at  the 
pi-oiier  state  of  ripeness,  there  need  be  no  dread  of  failure. 
I  have  often  had  the  jeUy  "form"  before  I  filled  the  last 
glass. 

I  wish  it  -were  in  my  power,  by  malting  known  the  ad- 
vantages of  the  process  I  have  described,  to  put  an  end  to 
the  doubts  and  anxieties  attendant  upon  the  old-fashioned 
method  of  boiling  jelly  into  a  preserve.  This  plan  is  so 
Binipie  and  safe,  the  jelly  made  so  superior  in  flavor  and 
color  to  that  produced  by  boiling  down  juice  and  fruit,  that 
DO  one  who  has  ever  tried  both  ways  can  hesitate  to  give  it 
the  preference.  I  have  put  up  jelly  in  no  other  way  for 
twelve  years,  and  have  never  failed  once. 

Strawberry  jelly  shoidd  have  a  little  lemon-juice  added 
to  that  of  the  fruit.  Both  it  and  blackbeiTy,  and  very  ripe 
raspberry  jelly,  are  apt  to  be  less  fii-m  than  that  made 
from  more  tart  frmts ;  still,  do  nut  boil  it.     Set  it  in  th« 


.dhyGoogle 


*T2 

BHQ,  as  I  have  diiectetl  at  the  boginning  of  tlie  section  upon 
[iresei'ves  aud  fruit  jeDies,  filling  one  cup  fiom  anotter  aa 
the  conteuta  shrink.  The  sun  will  boil  it  down  with  less 
waste,  and  less  injury  to  color  and  taste,  than  the  fire  will 
Cooking  jelly  always  darkens  it. 

Put  brandied  tissue-paper  over  the  top  of  each  glass 
when  cold  and  firm,  paste  a  thick  paper  over  it,  and  keep 
in  a  dry  place. 

IlASPBERRY  AND  CuRRANT  Jelly.  >^ 
To  two  parts  red  raspbeniea  or   "  Elackeaps,"   put   one 
of  red  cnrrants,  and  proceed  as  with  other  berry  jelly. 
The  flavor  is  exquisite.     This  jelly  is  especially  nice  for 

Wild  Cherry  and   Cukbakt  Jelly.  »J« 
Two-thirds  wild  cherries  (stones  and  all)  and  one  of  rod 
currants.     A  pound  of  sugar  to  apintof  jnice,andmake  aa 
you  do  plain  currant  jelly. 

This,  besides  being  very  palatable  and  an  excellent  table 
jelly,  is  highly  medicinal,  good  for  coughs  and  any  weak- 
ness of  the  digestive  organs.  I  put  it  up  first  as  an  experi- 
ment, and  because  1  chanced  to  have  the  cherries.  Now  I 
would  not  pass  the  winter  without  it,  unless  obliged  to  do 
so  by  a  failure  of  the  fruit  cro]). 

Peach  Jeh.y,  •}• 
Crack  one-third  of  the  kernels  and  put  them  in  the  jar 
with  the  peaches,  whicK  should  be  pared,  stoned,  and 
sliced.  Heat  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  stirring  from  tinio 
to  time  until  the  fruit  isweO  broken.  Strain,  and  to  every 
pint  of  peach  juice  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Measure 
again,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  Uquid.  Heat 
the  sugar   veiy  hot,  and    add   when   the  jnice  baa  boiled 


.dhyGoogle 


OiNlTED  FEDTTS   AND   TEGITTABLES.  473 

twenty  minutes.      Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  take  iustimt-V 
from  the  fire. 

This  ia  very  fine  for  jelly- eake. 

Gkeen  Eox  Grape  Jelly  i^ 
la  made  after  the  receipt  for  curranli  jelly,  only  allowinfr 
a.  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice. 
Eipe  gmpea  require  but  pound  for  pint. 

QuiscE  Jelly.  •{« 
Pare  and  slice  tlie  quinces,  and  add  for  eTory  five  pounrm 
of  fruit  a  cup  of  water.      Put  peelings,  cores,  and  all  into  a 
Stone  jar;  set  this  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and,  when  the 
fruit  ia  soft  and  broken,  proceed  as  with  other  jellies. 

Cbab-applb  Jelly.  >{. 

Cut  Siberian  crab-apjiles  to  pieces,  but  do  not  pare  or 
remove  the  seeds.  The  latter  impart  a  peculiarly  pleasant 
flavor  to  the  fruit.  Put  into  a  stone  jar,  set  in  a  pot  of  hot 
■water,  and  Jet  it  boil  eight  or  nine  hours.  Leave  in  the  jar 
all  night,  covered  closely.  Next  morning,  squeeze  out  the 
juice,  allow  pound  for  pint,  and  manage  aa  you  do  currant 
jelly. 

Sliould  the  apples  be  very  dry,  add  a  cup  of  water  for 
Bvery  six  pounds  of  fruit. 

There  is  no  finer  jelly  than  this  in  appearance  and  in 
taato. 


CANNED   FRUITS  AND   VEGETABLES. 
Within    a  few  years  canned  fruits   have,  in  a  great 
measure,   Buporaeded  preserves.       They   are  cheaper,  more 
wholesome,  orA  far  less  difRcult  to  prepare.     Attention  to 


;dhyGoogle 


l14  COMMOH    SENSE. 

a  few  general  rules  wiJl  insure  success  to  e\ery  house 
wlio  sensibly  pi-efers  to  put  up  iisr  owu  seaaou's  supplj 
of  tJicse  to  purchasiag  those  foi-  double  the  coat,  wliich  an" 
not  nearly  so  good. 

First,  examiue  cans  aud  elastics  nan-owly  lioforo  you 
begin  operations.  See  that  the  screw  is  ia  order,  the  can 
without  crack  or  nick,  the  elastic  firm  and  closely  fit- 
ting. 

Secondly,  have  the  fruit  boiling  Lot  when  sealed.  Have 
upon  the  range  or  s'ove  a  pan  in  which  each  empty  can  ia 
set  to  be  filled  after  it  is  rolled  in  hot  water.  Lay  elastic 
and  top  close  to  your  hand,  fill  the  can  to  overflowing,  re 
membering  that  the  fruit  will  shrink  as  it  cools,  and  that  a 
vacuum  invites  the  air  to  enter ;  clap  on  the  top  without 
the  loss  of  a  second,  screw  as  tightly  as  you  cm,  and  as  the 
contents  and  the  can  cool,  screw  again  and  again  to  fit  the 
contraction  of  metal  and  glass. 

Thii-dly,  if  you  use  glass  cans  (and  they  are  cheapest  in 
the  end,  for  you  can  use  them  year  after  year,  getting  new 
elastics  when  you  need  them)  keep  them  in  a  cool,  dark  place, 
and  dry  as  well  as  cool.  The  light  will  cause  them  to  fer- 
ment, and  also  change  the  color. 

Camjed  Berries.  "J» 

Heat  slowly  to  boiling,  in  a  large  kettle.  When  they 
begin  to  boil,  add  sugar  in  the  propoi'tion  of  one  tablespoon- 
ful  to  each  quart  of  fruit.  Before  doing  this,  however, 
if  there  is  much  j  nice  in  the  kettle,  dip  out  the  surplus  with 
a  dipper  or  cup.  It  will  only  increase  the  number  of  cans 
to  be  filled,  withou'„  real  advantage  to  you.  Leave  the  berries 
almost  dry  before  putting  in  the  SAigar.  This  will  make 
symp  enough.     Boil  all  together  fifteen  minutes,  and  can. 

Huckleberries,  grapes,  blackberries,  cun'ants,  rasjiher- 
«es,  dierries,  and  str»wbcnies  put  up  in  this  way  are  very 


.dhyGoogle 


CANMED   FEUrrS   AHD   TBOETABLES.  475 

good  eaten  as  you  would  preserves,  and  make  pies  wliicli  arp 
Bcarc^'ly  iiiforior  to  those  tilled  witli  fi-csli  fruit. 

I  iNNtn  rtALirE9  fcj. 
Pare,  cut  m  hi]£  and  atom  tikuii,  caitt  not  to  break 
the  fi'uit;  diop  each  pipce  m  cold  water  so  ^oon  as  it  ia 
pared.  The  liToe,  white  fieestone  peaches  are  mast  for 
this  purpose  Fiiraness  of  tei^tuie  is  a  desiUeratiim  The 
fruit  sliould  be  npe,  but  not  soft.  Allow  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit,  scattering  it 
between  the  layers.  Fill  your  kettle  and  heat  slowly  to  a 
boil.  Boil  three  minutes,  just  to  assure  yourself  tJ.at  every 
piece  of  fruit  is  heated  through.  Can  and  seal.  It  h 
safe  to  i>ut  a  cujiful  of  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle 
before  packing  it  with  fruit,  lest  the  lower  layer  should 
bum. 

Can;;kd  Pears,  ij. 

Eor  tlie  finer  varieties,  such  as  the  Bartlett  and  Seckel, 
prepare  a  syrup,  allowing  a  pint  of  pure  water  and  a  quap. 
ter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  fruit.  Wbile  this  ia 
heating,  peel  the  pears,  dropping  each,  as  it  is  pared,  into  a 
pan  of  clear  water,  lest  the  color  should  change  by  exposure 
to  fie  air.  When  the  syrup  has  come  to  a  fest  boil,  put  in 
the  pears  carefully,  not  to  bruise  them,  and  boQ  until  they 
look  clear  and  can  be  easily  pierced  by  a  fork.  Have  the 
cans  ready,  rolled  in  hot  water,  pack  with  the  pears  and  fil] 
to  overllowing  ^vitli  the  scalding  syrup,  which  must  be  kepi 
on  tlie  fire  all  the  while,  and  seal. 

The  tougher  and  more  common  pears  must  be  boDed  in 
water  until  tender ;  thrown  while  warm  into  the  hot  syrup 
-hen  allowed  to  boil  ten  minutes  before  they  are  canned. 

Apples  may  be  tvcited  in  either  of  the  abov  way*  ai 
iheir  texture  may  sei^m  to  demand. 


.dhyGoogle 


476  common  sense. 

Canked  Plums.  4" 
Prick  with  a  neeiile  to  prevent  bursting;  prepare  ■ 
Bymp  allowing  a  gill  of  pure  water  and  a  quarter  of  a  poucd 
of  sugar  to  every  tliree  quarts  of  fruit.  When  the  sug^ 
is  dissolved  and  the  water  blood-warm,  put  in  tlie  plums. 
Heat  slowly  to  a  boil.  Let  them  boil  five  minutes — not 
fast  or  they  will  break  badly,  fill  up  the  jars  with  j)lum3, 
,  pour  in  the  scalding  syrup  uutil  it  runs  down  the  sides, 

Grecnfacea  are  very  fine  put  up  in  this  way ;  also  dam- 
BOns  for  pies. 

CabNED  TOMATOEa.  4« 

"  I  don't  hold  with  any  of  these  new-fangled  notions," 
naid  an  old  lady  to  me,  when.  I  mentioned  that  my  canning 
was  over  for  the  aiumner.  "  I  was  beguiled,  two  years  ago, 
into  putting  up  some  tomaylesses  in  cans,  and  if  I'm  for- 
given for  that  folly  I'll  never  t«mpt  Providence  in  the 

"  They  didn't  keep,  then  ?  " 

"  Keep  !  they  sp'iled  in  a  week !     'Twas  no  more'n  I 
I  and  deserved   for   meddling  with  such  a  hum- 


"  Perhaps  you  did  not  follow  the  directions  closely  ?  " 

"  Indeed  I  did  1  I  cooked  the  tormont«d  things,  and 
seasoned  'em  with  butter  and  salt,  all  ready  for  the  table, 
and  screwed  the  tops  down  tight.  But,  in  course,  they 
sp'iled  1  " 

"  Were  you  careful  to  put  them  into  the  cjuis  boiling 
hot?" 

"'Twould  have  cracked  the  glass!  I  let 'em  get  retM 
arid  cold  first.  I  didn't  suppose  it  made  any  diUerenca 
»bont  such  a  trifie  as  that !  " 

Poor  old  lady  I      I  think  of  her  and  t  er  mighty  tempt* 


.dhyGoogle 


CANHED   PKUire  AMD   VEGETABLES.  477 

titin  of  Providence  whenever  I  can  tomatoes,  fo:  heat  doni 
miiko  a  difference — all  the  diffei-ence  in  the  world  in  this 
sort  of  work, 

Poiu-  boiliog  water  over  tlie  tomatoes  to  loosen  the 
skills.  Remove  these;  drain  off  all  the  juice  that  will 
como  away  without  pressing  hard;  put  them  into  a  kettle 
and  heat  slowly  to  a  boil.  Your  toniatoes  will  look  much 
nicer  if  you  remove  all  tlie  hai-d  parts  before  putting 
them  on  the  fire,  and  rub  the  pulp  soft  with  your  hands. 
Boil  ten  minutes,  dip  out  the  surplus  liquid,  pour  the 
tomatoes,  boiling  hot,  into  the  cans,  and  seal.  Keep  in  a 
cool,  dark  place. 

Canned  Tojiatoes  ai;d  Corn,  t^ 
Boil  the  com  on  the  cob,  when  it  la  in  nice  order  for 
roasting,  twenty  minutes  over  a  good  iire,  and  cut  off  while 
hot.  Have  your  tomatoes  skinned  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth 
pulj).  Put  in  two  measui'es  of  tliem  for  every  one  of  the  cut 
corn;  salt  as  for  the  table,  stirring  it  well  in,  and  bring  to 
a  hard  boil.  Then,  can  quickly,  and  as  soon  as  they  are 
cold  set  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Pbesehved  Ghees  Coiik.  ^f. 
Boil  on  the  cob  until  the  milk  ceases  to  flow  when  tho 
grain  is  piicked.  Cut  off  the  corn  and  pack  in  stone  jara 
in  the  foUowing  order: — A  layer  of  salt  at  tJie  bottom, 
half  aa  inch  deep.  Then  one  of  com  two  inches  in  depth, 
another  half-inch  of  salt,  and  so  on  until  tlie  jar  is  nearly 
filled.  Let  the  topmost  layer  of  salt  be  double  tlie  depth  of 
Uie  others,  and  pour  over  all  melted — not  hot — lard.  Press 
upon  tliis,  when  nearly  hard,  thick  white  jiapor,  cut  to  fit 
the  mouth  of  the  jar.  Keep  in  a  cool  place.  Soak  over, 
night  before  using  it. 


.dhyGoogle 


478  COMMON   BBHBE. 

Gixen  com  is  difficult  to  can,  but  Ihiow  it  will  keef 
well  if  put  up  in  thia  way.  And,  strange  to  tell,  be  bc 
fresli  after  the  night's  soaldug  as  to  reqiiive  salt  wlien  you 
boil  it  for  the  table.  Sliould  the  toi>  layer  be  musty,  Jijj 
lower  still,  and  you.  will  probably  be  rewarded  for  the  seai^ch 


BRANDIED    FEUITS. 
Bbandied  Peaches  or  Pears.  •}■ 
4  lbs.  fruit. 
4  lbs.  sugar. 

1  [lint  best  white  brandy. 
Make  ft  syrup  of  the  sugar  ajid  enough  water  to  dissolve 
it.  Let  tliis  come  to  a  boil;  ])ut  the  fruit  in  and  boil  five 
minutes.  Having  removed  the  fruit  carefully,  let  the  syrup 
boil  fifteen  minutes  longer,  or  until  it  thickens  well ;  add 
the  brandy,  and  take  tlie  kettle  at  oace  from  the  fire ;  pour 
the  hot  syrup  over  the  fruit,  and  seal. 

If,  after  the  fr-uit  is  taken  from  the  fire,  a  reddish  liquor 
oozes  from  it,  drain  this  off  before  adding  the  clear  syrup. 
Put  up  iu  glass  jara. 

Peaches  and  pears  should  be  peeled  for  brandying. 
Plums  should  be  pricked  and  watched  carefully  for  fear  of 
bursting. 

BnASDiED  Cherries  oh  Berries,  •{■ 
Make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  half  gill  of 
water  for  every  two  lbs,  of  fruit.  Heat  to  boiling,  stirring 
to  pr&vent  burning,  and  pour  over  the  bei'ries  while  warm 
— not  hot.  Let  them  stand  together  an  hour  ;  put  all  into 
B  preserving-kettle,  and  heat  slowly;  boil  five  minutes,  take 
out  the  fruit  srith  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  boil  the  syrup 


.dhyGoogle 


twenty  minutes.    Add  a  pint  of  brandy  for  every  five  pounds 
of  fruit ;  pour  over  the  berries  hot,  aud  seat. 


CANDIES. 
Molasses  Oakdy.  ^ 
I  quart  good  molasses. 
■J  cup  vinegar, 
1  cup  sugar. 

Butter  tlie  size  of  an  egg. 
1  teaspoonfui  saleratua. 

Dissolve  tlie  sugar  in  the  vinegai,  mix  with  the  mola* 
sea,  and  boil,  stirring  frequently,  imtil  it  haiJens  is  hen 
dropped  from  the  spoon  into  cold  water,  then  stu  m  the 
butter  and  soda,  the  latter  dissolved  in  hot  water  Flavor  to 
your  taste,  give  one  hard  final  stir,  and  pour  into  buttered 
dishes.  As  it  cools,  cut  into  squares  for  "  tafFey,"  or,  wliile 
soft  enough  to  handle,  pull  white  into  sticks,  using  only  the 
buttered  tips  of  your  fingers  for  that  purpose. 

SuOAB-CAJfDY.  •{" 

6  cups  of  sugar. 
1  cup  of  vinegar. 
1  cup  of  water. 

Tablespoonful  of  butter,  put  in  at  the  last,  with 
1  teaspoonful  saleratus  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Boil,  wiOtout  stirring,  half  an  hour,  or  until  it  crisps  iu 
cold  water.      Ptill  white  with  the  tips  of  your  fijigera. 

Since  children  must  eat  candy,  tJiis  is  the  beat  you  caa 
give  them.     It  is  very  nice.     Flavor  to  taste. 


.dhyGoogle 


COMMON   SmtSB. 


PICKLES. 


Use  none  but  the  best  cider  vinegar ;  especially  tivoid 
die  sharp  colorless  liquid  sold  nader  tliat  name.  It  is  weak 
s^lphuiic  acid,  wari-auted  to  riddle  the  coat  of  any  stonmcli, 
even  that  of  an  ostrich,  if  that  bird  were  so  bereft  of  the 
instinct  of  self-preservation  as  to  make  a  lunch  of  bright- 
green  cucumber-pickle  seven  times  a  week. 

If  you  boil  pickles  in  bell-metal,  do  not  let  them  stand 
in  it  one  moment  when  it  is  off  the  fire ;  and  see  for  your- 
self that  it  is  perfectly  clean  and  newly  scoui-ed  before  the 
Tiuegai'  is  put  in. 

Keep  pickles  in  gksa  or  hard  stonewai'e;  look  them 
over  every  month  ;  remove  the  soft  ones,  and  if  there  are 
several  of  these,  drain  ofi'  and  scald  the  vinogai',  adding  a 
cup  of  sugar  for  each  gallon,  and  pour  hot  over  the  pickles. 
If  they  are  keeping  well,  throw  in  a  liberal  handful  of  sugar 
for  every  gallon,  and  tie  them  up  again.  This  tends  to 
preserve  them,  and  mellows  the  sharpness  of  the  vinegar. 
Tius  does  not  apply  to  sweet  pickle. 

Pickle,  well  made,  is  better  when  a  year  old  than  at  the 
jnd  of  six  months,  I  have  eaten  walnut  pickle  ten  je».ra 
old  that  was  very  fine. 

Keep  your  pickles  well  covered  with  vinegar. 

If  you  use  ground  spices,  tie  them  up  in  thin  muslin 
bags. 

Cucumber  ob  Guebkin  Pickle,  ^J* 

Choose  small  cucumbers,  or  gherkins,  for  this  purj)ose 
They  are  more  tender,  and  look  better  on  the  table.  Re- 
ject all  over  a  finger  in  length,  and  every  one  that  is  niis- 
ehaiien  or  sj>ecked,  however  slightly.  Pack  in  a  stone  ja( 
or  wooden  bucket,  in  layers,  strewing  salt  thickly  between 
thtise.     Cover  the  top  layer  out  of  sight  with  salt,  and  oomi 


.dhyGoogle 


PICKLBB.  481 

ou  cold  iratfir  enongli  to  cover  all.  Lay  a  smjll  plate  or 
rcrand  board  upon  them,  witli  a  clean  stone  to  keep  it  down. 
You  may  leave  them  in  the  brine  for  a  week  or  a  month, 
Kf  irring  up  from  the  bottom  every  other  day.  If  the  lonu-Br 
time,  be  sure  your  salt  and  water  is  strong  enough  to  bear 
np  an  egg.  If  you  raise  your  own  cucumbers,  pick  them 
ev^ry  day,  and  drop  in  the  picLle  When  you  are  ready  to 
put  tlxem  up,  throw  away  the  bime,  with  any  cucumbers 
that  may  have  softened  under  the  process,  and  lay  the  rest 
in  cold  fresh  water  for  twenty  four  houi6  Change  the 
water  then  for  fresh,  and  Iea-\e  it  for  anothei  day  Hav? 
a  kettle  ready,  lined  with  gieen  vme-ka\es,  and  lay  the 
pickles  evenly  witliin  it,  scattering  powilored  alum  over  th» 
layers.  A  bit  of  alum  as  large  as  a  pigeon-egg  will  bo 
enough  for  a  two-gallon  kettleful.  Fill  with  cold  water, 
cover  with  vine-leaves,  three  deep ;  put  a  close  lid  or  in- 
verted pan  over  all,  and  steam  over  a  slow  fii-e  five  or  sis 
hours,  not  allowing  the  water  to  boil.  When  the  pickles 
are  a  fine  green,  remove  tJio  leaves  and  throw  the  cucumbers 
into  very  cold  water.  Let  them  stajid  in  it  while  you  pre- 
pare the  vinegar.  To  one  gallon  allow  a  cup  of  sugar,  three 
dozen  whole  black  peppers,  the  same  of  cloves,  half  aa 
much  allspice,  one  dozen  blades  of  mace.  Boil  five  minutes  ■ 
put  the  cucumbers  into  a  stone  jar,  and  pour  the  vinegar 
over  them  scalding  hot.  Cover  closely.  Two  days  after- 
WflJ^i  scald  tlie  vinegar  again  and  return  to  the  pickles. 
Repeat  this  process  three  times  more,  at  intervals  of  two 
four,  and  six  days.  Cover  with  a  stoneware  or  wooden 
top ;  tie  stout  cloth  over  tiis,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 
They  will  be  ready %r "eating  in  two  months.  Examine 
ei'ery  few  weeks. 


hyGooc^le 


48s  common  bbssb. 

Pickled  Mahooes.  4« 

YoTing  musk  or  nutmeg  melons. 

English  mnstard-seed,  two  LandfulH,  mixed  with 

Scraped  liorseradish,  one  handful. 

Mace  and  nutmeg  pounded,  1  t«aspoonfu]. 

Chopped  garlic,  2  teaspoonfulg. 

A  little  ginger. 

Whole  pepper-coma,  1  dozen. 

1[  tablespoonful  of  ground  mustard  to  a  pint  of  tk« 
mixture. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar  to  the  same  quantity. 

1  "  best  salad  oil  to  the  same. 

1  teaspoonful  celery-seed. 
Cut  a  slit  in  the  side  of  the  melon  ;  inseiu  your  finger 
and  extract  all  the  seeds.  If  you  cannot  get  thera  out  in 
this  way,  cut  a  slender  piece  out,  saving  it  to  replace, — but 
the  slit  ia  better.  Lay  the  mangoes  in  strong  brine  for 
three  days.  Drain  off  the  brine,  and  freshen  in  pure  water 
twenty-four  hours.  Green  as  you  would  cucumbers,  and 
lay  in  cold  water  until  cold  and  firm.  TUl  with  the  staf- 
fing ;  sew  up  the  slit,  or  tie  up  with  packthread ;  pack  in 
a  deep  stone  jar,  and  pour  scalding  vinegar  over  them. 
Eepeat  this  process  three  times  more  at  intervals  of  two 
days,  then  tie  up  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dry  plaoe. 

Tliey  will  not  be  "ripe"  under  four  months,  but  are 
very  fine  when  they  are.     They  will  keep  several  years. 

Pepper  Mangoes.  "J" 
Are  put  up  in  the  same  way,  using  green  peppers   that 
are  full-grown,  but  not  tinged  with  red. 

They  are  very  good,  hnt  your  fingers  will  smart  aftei 
thrusting  them  into  the  peppers  to  pull  out  the  seeds,  for 
this  purpose  I  have  used,  first,  a  small  penknife,  to  cut  tJie 


.dhyGoogle 


PICKLBS.  483 

ooni  from  its  attactineiit  to  the  atem-end  of  the  pippcr^ 
then  a  am.ioth  bit  of  stick,  to  pry  open  the  slit  in  the  side 
and  work  out  the  loose  core  or  hunch  of  seed.  By  tha 
exercise  of  a  littlo  ingenuity  you  may  spare  yourself  all 
Buffering  from  this  cause.  Should  your  fingers  bum  badly, 
auaint  them  with  awect-oil  and  wear  gloves  that  night 
Cream  will  also  allay  the  smart. 

Pickled  Cabbage  (Y^low). 

2  gallons  vinegar, 

1  pint  white  muatard-seed. 
4  oz.  ginger. 

3  oz.  pepper-corns, 

1  oz.  allspice. 

2  oz.  cloves. 

1  oz.  nutmeg. 

2  oz.  turmeric. 
1  large  handful  of  garlic,  chopped. 
1  handful  scraped  horseradish. 

4  lbs.  sugar. 

3  oz,  celery  seed. 

3  lemons,  sliced  thin, 
Mis  all  and  set  in  the  sun  for  three  days. 
To  prepare  the  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters — leaving  off  tlie 
outer  and  green  leaves — and  put  in  a  kettle  of  boiliu"  briiie. 
Cook  three  minutes.  Take  out,  drain,  and  cover  thickly  with 
salt.  Spread  out  in  the  sun  to  dry ;  then  shake  off  the  salt, 
»nd  cover  with  cold  vinegar  in  which  has  been  steeped  ennuo-h 
turmeric  to  color  it  well.  Leave  it  in  this  two  weeks  to 
draw  out  the  salt  and  to  plump  the  cabbage.  Thoy  aj-g 
then  ready  to  pack  down  in  the  seasoned  vinegar.  Do  noi 
use  under  six  weeks  or  two  months. 


.dhyGoogle 


IS  4  COmiflS   6ES6S. 

Pickled  Cabbage  (Ihirple). 

Qiiart(ir  the  cabbage.  L.ay  in  a,  wooden  tray,  Bprinkla 
taiokly  with  salt,  and  set  in  the  cellar  until  next  day 
Drain  off  the  brine,  wipe  di7,  lay  in  the  sun  two  hours, 
and  cover  with  cold  vinogar  for  twelve  hours.  Prepare 
tlio  pickle  by  seasoning  enough  vinegar  to  cover  the  cab- 
bage with  equal  quantities  of  mace,  cloves,  whole  whitfl 
peppers ;  a  cup  of  sugar  to  every  gallon  of  vinegar,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  celery  seed  for  every  pint.  Pack  the  cab. 
bage  in  a  stone  jar;  boil  the  vinegar  and  spices  five  min- 
utes and  pour  on  hot.  Cover  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dry 
place. 

This  will  be  ripe  in  sis  weeks. 

Pickled  Okioks. 

Peel  the  onions,  which  should  be  fine  white  ones— not 
too  large.  Let  them,  stand  in  strong  biine  for  four  days, 
cfaanr^g  it  twice.  Heat  more  brine  to  a  boil,  throw  in  the 
onions,  and  boil  three  minutes.  Throw  them  at  once  into 
cold  wator,  and  leave  them  there  four  hours.  Pack  in  jars, 
interspersing  with  whole  mace,  white  pepper-corns,  and 
cloves.  rUl  up  with  scalding  vinogar  in  which  you  have 
piit  %  cupful  of  sugar  for  every  gallon.      Cork  while  hot. 

They  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  month,  but  will  bo  better 
at  the  end  of  three  months. 

Grees  Beans  anb  Radish  Pods. 
Take  young  French  or  "  string  "  beans,  and  radish  poda 
just  before  they  change  color;  green  and  pickle  as  yon  do 
cucumbers  and  gherkins. 


.dhyGoogle 


48S 

Nastuktium-seed.  >^ 
Take  tte  green  seed  after  the  Ilower  has  dried  off.  Laj 
in  salt  aitd  water  two  days,  in  cold  water  one  day;  pack 
in  bottles  and  cover  witli  scalding  vinegar,  seasoned  wilb 
mace  and  white  pepijer-corns,  and  sweetened  sliglitly  with 
white  sugar.     Cork,  and  set  away  four  weeks  Intfore  yoi 

They  are  an  excellent  substitute  for  capers. 

Pickled  Butternuts  akd  Walnuts,  >^ 
Gather  them  when  soft  enough  to  he  pierced  by  a  pin. 
Lay  them  in  strong  biitie  five  days,  changing  this  twice 
in  the  meantime.  Drain,  and  wipe  them  with  a  coarse 
cloth ;  pierce  each  by  running  a  large  needle  through  if^ 
Mid  lay  in  cold  water  for  six  hours. 

To  each  gallon  of  vinegar  aUow  a  cup  of  sugar,  three 
iozen  each  of  whole  cloves  and  black  pepper-corns,  half  as 
much  allspice,  and  a  dozen  blades  of  maca  Boil  five 
minutes ;  pack  fie  nnts  in  small  jars  and  pour  over  them 
scalding  hot.  Eepeat  this  twice  within  a  week ;  tie  up  and 
Bet  away. 

They  will  ho  good  to  eat  in  a  month— and  very  good 

Pickled  Cauliplowek.  t^. 

Pick  the  whitest  and  closest  bunches.  Cut  into  smaJ! 
Bprays  or  clustem  Plunge  into  a  kettle  of  scalding  brine 
and  boil  thi'ee  minutes.  Take  them  out,  lay  upon  a  sieve 
or  a  cloth,  sprinkle  IJaickly  with  salt,  and,  when  dry,  brush 
ttiis  off.  Cover  with  cold  vinegar  for  two  days,  setting  thn 
jar  in  the  sun.  Then  pack  carefully  in  gla.ss  or  stonewan. 
jai-8,  and  pour  over  them  sca'ding  vinegar  seasoned  thus : 

To  one  gallon  allow  a  cup  of  white  sugar,  a  dozen  blade* 


.dhyGoogle 


of  mace,  a  tiiblespoonful  of  celery-seed,  two  dozen  nhita 
Ii(!]iper-coriis  and  some  bits  of  red  pepper  pods,  a.  tablespoon- 
fid  of  coriiinder-seed,  and  the  same  of  whole  mustard.  Boil 
five  minutes.  Repeat  the  scalding  once  a  week  for  three 
weets ;  tie  up  and  set  away.  Keep  the  cauliflowers  under 
tlie  vinegar  by  putting  a  SEiall  plate  on  top. 

Sliced  CifcusiBEa  Tickle.     (  Very  nice.) 
2  dozen  large  cucumbers,  sliced,  and  boiled  in  rinegai 
enough  to  cover  them,  one  hour.    Set  aside  in  the 
hot  vinegar. 
To  each  gallon  of  cold  -riuegar  allow — 
>.  sugar, 
1  tablcspoonful  of  cinnamon. 
"  giuger. 

"  black  pepper. 

"  celery-seed. 

1  teaspoonful  of  mace. 

"  allspice. 

"  cloves. 

I  tablcspoonful  turmeric. 

"  horseradish,  scraped. 

"  garlic,  sHced. 

■J-  teaspoonful  Cayenne  pepper. 
Put  in  the  cucumbers  and  stew  two  hours. 
The  pickle  will  he  ready  for  use  so  soon  as  it  is  cold, 

Pickled  Watee-melon  Kind.     {^Extremdy  nice.) 
Equal  weight  of  rind  and  white  sugar. 
^  ounce  white  ginger  to  a  gallon  of  pickle. 
1  pint  vinegar  to  every  pound  of  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  tui'meric  to  a  gallon  of  pickle. 
ll»ce,  cloves,  and  ciimamoit  to  tasto, 


.dhyGoogle 


PICKLES.  487 

Take  tljc  tliickest  rind  you  can  get,  pare  off  the  liai-d 
green  rind,  also  the  soft  inner  pulp.  Lay  the  pieces — narrow 
Btrijis  or  Onciful  cuttings — in  brine  strong  enough  tn>  float 
an  egg,  and  let  them  remain  in  it  ten  days.  Tlien  soak  in 
fair  water,  changing  it  eipry  day  for  ten  days.  Cover  them 
with  clear  water  in  a,  jwesei-ving-kettle,  heat  slowly  and 
boil  five  mioutes.  Take  them  out  and  plunge  instantly  into 
ice-water.  Leave  them  in  this  until  next  day.  Give  them 
another  gentle  boil  of  five  minutes  in  strong  alum-water 
Simmer  carefully,  as  a  hard  boil  will  injure  them.  Change 
directly  from  tlie  alum  to  the  ice-water  again,  and  do  not 
disturb  them  for  four  hours.  After  a  third  boil  of  five 
minutes,  let  tiiem  remain  all  night  in  the  last  water  to  make 
them  tender.  Next  day  add  to  enough  water  to  cover  the 
rinds  sufficient  sugar  to  make  it  quite  s^weet,  but  not  a  syrup. 
Simmer  the  rinds  in  this  ten  minutes,  throw  the  water  away, 
and  spread  tliem  upon  dishes  to  cool.  Meanwhile  prepare 
a  second  syrup,  allowing  sugar  equal  in  weight  to  the  rind, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  sliced  white  ginger  to  a  gallon  of 
the  pickle,  with  a  cup  of  water  for  every  two  pounds  of 
svigai'.  When  tlie  sugar  is  melted  and  tlie  syrup  .quite 
hot,  but  not  boiling,  jiut  in  the  rinds  and  simmer  until  they 
look  qtiite  clear.  Take  it  out,  spread  upon  the  dishes  again, 
while  you  add  to  the  syrup  a  pint  of  vinegar  for  every  pound 
of  the  sugar  you  have  put  in,  one  tablespoonful  of  turmeric 
to  a  gallon  of  pickle  ;  mace,  cloves,  and  cijinamon  to  tasto. 
Boil  this  up,  return  the  rind  to  it,  and  simmer  fifteen 
niiautea.     Put  up  in  glass  jars.      It  will  he  fit  for  use  in  two 

This  is  a  very  handsome  and  delicious  pickle,  although 
it  may  seem  to  be  made  uiwn  the  principle  of  the  Frenob- 


.dhyGoogle 


tSa  COMMON    8EN8E. 

Green  Tomato  Soy.  4* 
2  gallons  tomatoes,  green,  and  sliced  without  peeling 
12  good-aized  onions,  also  sliced. 

2  quarts  vinegar. 

1  quart  sugar. 

3  tablespoonfula  salt. 

3  "  ground  mustard. 

2  "  black  pepper,  ground. 
1  tablespoon ful  allspice. 

1  "  cloves. 

Mix  all  together  and  st€w  until  tender,  stirring  often 
l(;st  they  should  scorch.     Put  up  in  araall  glass  jars. 

This  is  a  most  useful  and  pleasant  sauce  for  almost 
everj  kind  of  meat  ajid  fish. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle.     ( Veiy  good.)  *^ 
7  lbs.  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  ajid  sliced. 
3J  "   sugar. 

1  oz.  cinnamon  and  maoe  mixed. 
1  "    cloves. 
1  quart  of  vinegar. 
Mix  all  together  and  stew  hour. 

Ripe  Tomato  Pickle.     (iVo.  2.) 
3  gallons  tomatoes,  peeled,  but  not  sliced. 

2  iba.  sugar. 

Mace,  nutmeg,  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

Put  all  on  together,  heat  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  simmei 
KM  hour.     Put  up  in  glass  jars. 


.dhyGoogle 


Sheet    Pickle — Plumb,    Pears,    Peaches,    oe     other 
Feu  ITS.  ■{« 
7  lbs.  fndt,  pared. 
4    "    wtite  sugar. 
1  pint  strong  vinegar. 
Mace,  cinnamon,  and  cloves. 
Pare  peaohcs  and  pears  ;  prick  plums  and  damsons,  to- 
matoes, "globes"  or  husk-tomatoea  (otherwise  known  an 
ground-pluras),  put  into  the  kettle  with  alternate  layers  of 
Bugat,     Heat  slowly  to  a  boil ;  add  the  vinegar  and  spice ; 
boil  five  minutes;  take  out  the  fruit  with  a  perforated 
skimmer  and  spread  upon  dishes  to  cook     Boil  the  syrup 
thick;  pack  the  fruit  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  the  syrup  oa 
boiling  hot. 

Examine  every  few  days  for  the  first  month,  and  shouid 
it  show  signs  of  fermenting  sot  the  jars  (uncovered)  in  a 
kettle  of  water,  and  teat  until  the  contents  are  scald- 
ing. 

Husk-tomatoes — a  fruit  which  looks  like  a  hybrid  bo- 
tween  the  tomato  and  plum — are  particularly  nice  put  up 
in  this  way. 

Pickled  Peaches. 
10  lbs.  fruit — ^pared. 
H"    sugar. 
1  quart  vinegar. 
Mace,  cinnamon,  and  cloves  to  tast«. 
Lfty  the  peaches  iu  the  sugar  for  an  hour ;  drain  off 
every  drop  of  syrup,  and  put  over  the  fire  with  about  a 
cup  of  water.     Boil  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise.     Skim ; 
put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  five  minutes.     Take  out   the 
peaches  witJi  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  spread  upon  dishes 
to  cool.     Add  the  vinegir  and  spices  to  the  syrup.     Boii 


;dhyGoogle 


490  COMMON   SENSE. 

fifteen  minutes  longer)  and  pJur  over  tLe  frait  in  glaw 
jars. 

Pickled  Peaches  (wnpeeled). 
Rub  tie  fur   off  with   a  coarse  cloth,  and  prick  each 
peach  with  a  fork.     Heat  in  just  enough  water  to  covei 
them  until  they  almost  boil ;  take  them  out,  and  add  to  th« 
water  sugar  in  the  following  proportions : — 
For  every  7  lbs.  of  fruit 

3  lbs.  of  sugar. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes ;  skim,  and  add — 
3  pints  of  vinegar. 

1  tablespoonful  (each)  of  allspice,  mace,  and  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoonful  selery-seod. 
1  "  cloves. 

Fnt  the  spices  m.  thin  muslin  bags.  Boil  all  together 
ten  mmiites,  then  put  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  until  they  can 
be  pierced  with  a  straw.  Take  out  tlie  fruit  with  a  skim- 
mer, and  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool.  Boil  the  syrup  until 
thick,  pack  the  peictes  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  this  over 
them  sodlding  Lot. 

You  may  pickle  pears  in  the  same  way  without  peeling. 

P1CK1.ED  Gherries,  J^ 

Morella,  or  large  red  tart  cherries,  as  fresh  as  you  can 
get  them.  To  every  quart  allow  a  large  cup  of  vinegar 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  with  a  dozen  whole  cloves 
and  half  a  dozen  blades  of  mace. 

Put  the  vinegar  and  sugar  on  to  heat  with  the  spices. 
Boil  five  minutes ;  turn  out  into  a  covered  stoneware  ves- 
sel, cover,  and  let  it  get  perfectly  cold.  Strain  out  the 
spices,  fill  small  jars  three-q\iarters  of  the  way  to  the  top 
vith  fruit,  and  pour  the  cold  vinegar  over  them,  Cork  01 
Dover  tightly.     Leave  the  siems  on  the  cherries. 


Google 


PiCKLETTB.  "J* 

4  lai^  crisp  cabbages,  chopped  fine. 

1  quart  onions,  chopped  fine. 

2  quarts  of  vinegar,  or  enough  to  cover  the  cabbage, 
2  lbs.  brown  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfula  ground  mustard. 
2  "  black  pepper. 

2  «  cinnamon. 

2  "  turmeric 

2  "  celery-soed. 

1  "  allspice. 

1  "  alum,  pulverized. 

Pack  the  cabbage  and  onions  in  alternate  layers,  with  a 
[ittle  salt  between  them.  Let  them  gtand  until  next  day. 
Then  scald  the  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices  together,  and  pour 
over  the  cabbage  and  onion.  Do  this  three  mornings  in  suc- 
cession. On  the  fourth,  put  all  together  over  the  fire  and 
heat  to  a  boil.  I^et  them  boil  five  minutes.  Wben  cold, 
pack  in  small  jars. 

It  is  fit  for  use  aa  soon  as  cool,  but  keeps  well. 


DRINKS. 

Coffee. 
Never  buy  ground  coffee  if  you  can  got  any  other.  The 
mere  fact  that  after  they  have  gone  to  the  expense  of  the 
machinery  and  labor  requisite  for  grinding  it,  the  manufac- 
turers can  sell  it  cheaper  per  pound  than  grocers  can  the 
whole  grains,  roasted  or  raw,  should  convince  every  sensible 
person  that  it  is  adulterated  with  other  anil  less  expensiv* 


;dhyGoogle 


493  COMKON    BESBE. 

Bubstiinces.  Be  that  as  it  may,  coffee  loses  its  aroma  aa 
rapidly  after  it  is  ground  that  it  ia  worth  your  wLile  to 
buy  it  whole,  either  in  small  quantities  freshly  roasted,  or 
raWj  and  roast  it  yourself  You  can  roast  in  a  pan  in  the 
oven,  stirring  every  few  minutes,  or  in  tlie  same  upon  :he 
top  of  the  range.  Stir  often  and  roast  quickly  to  a  bright 
brcmi — not  a  dull  black.  While  still  hot,  beat  up  the  white 
of  an  egg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  biitter  and  stir  up 
well  with  it.  This  will  tend  to  preserve  the  flavor.  Grind 
j'jst  enough  at  a  time  for  a  single  making. 

To  MAKE  Coffee  (hoUed). 
1  fiill  coffee-cup  (J-  pint)  of  ground  coffee. 
1  quart  of  boiling  water. 

White  of  an  e^,  and  crushed  shell  of  same. 
J-  cup  of  cold  water  to  settle  it. 
Stir  up  the  e^shell  and  the  white  (beaten)  with  the 
coffee,  and  a  very  little  cold  water,  and  mix  gradually  with 
the  boUing  water  in  the  coffee-boiler.     Stir  from  the  sidoa 
and  top  as  it  boils  up.     Boil  pretty  fast  twelve  minutes ; 
pour   in   the  cold   water    and   take   from   the   fire,  setting 
gently  upon  the  hearth  to  settle.     In  five  minutes,  pour  it 
off  carefully  into  your  silver,  china,  or  Britannia  coffee-jiot, 
which  should  be  previously  well  scalded 
Send  to  table  /u)t. 

To  Make  Coffee  without  Bohing. 
There  are  so  many  patent  coffee-pots  for  this  purpose, 
and  the  directions  sold  with  these  are  so  minute,  that  1 
need  give  only  a  few  general  rules  here.  Allow  rather  more 
coffee  to  a  given  quantity  of  water  than  if  it  wero  to  be 
boiled,  and  hiive  it  ground  very  fine.  Put  the  cofibe  in  the 
oppfsrmost   comiiai'tment^   pour  on   the  water  ^■ery   slowly 


.dhyGoogle 


DKINKS.  493 

until  the  iine  coffee  is  saturated,  tLen  more  rapidly.  Tlii" 
water  slionid  be  boiling.  Shut  dowa  tlie  top,  and  tlie  coffee 
ouglit  to  be  ready  when  it  has  gone  through  the  double  oi 
treble  set  of  strainers.  Siiould  it  not  be  strong  enougl^ 
nin  it  through  again. 

Caf&  au  Lait, 
1  pint  very  strong-moiZe  coffee — fresh  and  hot. 
1    "     boiling  milk. 
The  coffee  should  he  poured  off  the  grounds  through  a 
fine   strainer  (thin   musbn   is  the  best  material)    into  the 
table  cotfee-pot.  Add  the  milk,  and  set  the  pot  where  it  will 
keep  hot  for  five  minutes  before  pouring  it  out 

Tea. 
2  teaspoonfals  of  t«a  to   one  larffe  cupful  of  boiling 

Hcald  the  teapot  we\l,  put  in  the  tea,  and,  covering  close, 
set  it  on  the  stove  or  range  one  minute  to  warm;  pour  on 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it  well,  and  let  it  stand  ten 
miuutea  to  "draw."  Keep  the  lid  of  the  pot  shut,  and  set 
in  a  warm  place,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Fill  up  with  aa 
much  boiling  water  as  you  will  need,  and  send  hot  to  the 
table,  after  pouring  into  a  heated  china  or  silver  pot. 

The  bane  of  tea  in  many  households  is  unboiled  water. 
It  can  never  extract  the  flavor  aa  it  should,  although  it 
Bt©5p  for  hours.  The  kettle  sho\tld  not  only  steam,  but 
bubble  and  puff  in  a  hard  boil  before  you  add  water  from 
it  to  the  tea-leaves. 

Boiling  after  the  tea  is  made,  injures  the  flavor,  either 
bj  deadening  or  making  it  rank  and  "  herbj  " 


.dhyGoogle 


Chocolate.  4* 
6  tablespoonfiils  grated  chocolate  to  each  pint  of  water 
As  much  milk  as  you  have  water. 


Put  on  the  water  boiling  hot,  Eub  the  chocofato  smooth 
in  a  iittle  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  water,  EoiJ 
twenty  minutes ;  add  the  mi  lie  and  boil  ten  minutes  more, 
stimng  frequently.  You  can  sweeten  upon  the  fire  or  in 
the  cups 

Cocoa  Nibs,  or  Shells.  ^ 

1  quart  of  boiling  water. 

2  ozs.  of  cocoa  nibs. 
1  quart  fresh  milk. 

Wet  the  shells  or  nibs  up  with  a  little  cold  water;  add 
to  the  boiling,  and  cook  one  hour  and  a  half;  strain,  put  in 
the  milk,  let  it  heat  almost  to  boiling,  and  take  from  the 

This  is  excellent  for  invalids. 

Prepared  Cocoa.  "J« 
1  quart  of  water,  boiling, 
3  oza,  prepared  cocoa — Baker's  is  best. 
1  quart  of  milk. 
Make  as  you  do  chocolate— only  boil  nearly  an  hour 
before  you  add  the  milk,  afterward  heating  almost  to  boil- 
ing.    Sweeten  to  taste. 

Mir.K  Tea.  (for  Childbes). 
1  pint  fresh  milk  and  the  same  of  boiling  water.  Sweet«o 
ko  taste 


.dhyGoogle 


Kaspbeeby  "Royal. 
4  quarts  ripe  berries. 
1  quart  best  cider  vinegar. 
1  lb.  white  sugar. 
1  pint  fine  brandj. 
Put  the  berries  in  a  stone  jar,  pour  the  vinegar  ovei 
thenij  add  the  sugar,  and  pound  the  berries  to  a  paste  with 
a  wooden  pestle,  or  mash  with  a  spoon.     Let  them  stand  in 
the  sun  four  hours ;  strain  and  squeeze  out  all  the  juice, 
and  put  in  the  brandy.     Seal  up  in  bottles;  lay  them  on 
their  sides  in  the  cellar,  and  cover  with  sawdust. 

Stir  two  tahlespoonfuls  into  a  timibler  of  ice-water  when 
you  wish  to  use  it. 

Easpberry  Vinegak.  ^ 
Put  the  raspberries  into  a  etone  vessel  and  mash  them 
to  a  pulp.  Add  cider-Tinsgar — no  specious  imitation,  but 
the  genuine  article — enough  to  cover  it  well.  Stand  in  the 
Bun  twelve  hours,  and  all  night  in  the  cellar.  Stir  up  well 
OcoafiionalJy  during  this  time.  Strain,  and  put  as  many  fresh 
berries  in  the  jar  as  you  toot  out;  pour  the  strained  vinegar 
over  them;  mash  and  set  in  the  sun  all  day.  Strain  a  sec- 
ond time  next  day.  To  each  quart  of  this  juice  allow 
1  pint  of  water. 

6  lbs.  of  sugar  (best  white)  for  every  3  pints  of  this 
Hquid,  juice  and  water  mingled. 
Place  over  a  gentle  fire  and  stir  until  the  angai  is  dia- 
Bolved.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling,  skimming  off  the  scum- 
and  as  soon  as  it  fairly  boils  take  off  and  strain.  Bottle 
while  warm,  and  seal  the  corks  with  sealing-wax,  or  bees' 
tnx  and  rosin. 

A.  most  refreshing  and  pica -ant  drill  It. 


.dhyGoogle 


136  coumok  benbo, 

Blackberry  Vinegab 
la   made  in  the  Eame  manner  as   raapberr-  ,  allo-wing   6J 
lbs.  Bugar  to  3  pints  of  juice  and  water. 

BI4ACKBEERY   COHDIAL. 

1  quart  of  bkokbeny  juice 

1  lb.  white  sugar. 

i  oz.  grated  nutmeg. 

^  oz.  powdered  cinnaiaon. 

J  oz.  allspice. 

i  oz.  OIOVCT. 

1  pint  bosfc  brauily. 

Tie  the  apices  in  thin  muslin  hi^s;  boil  juice,  diigar,  and 
Bpices  together  fifteen  minutes,  skimming  well;  add  the 
brandy ;  set  aside  in  a  closely  covered  vessel  to  cool.  "^  hen 
perfectly  cold,  strain  out  the  spices,  and  bottle,  sealing  th* 

Eldeuberry  Wise. 

8  quarts  of  berries. 

4  quarts  of  boiling  water  .poured  over  the  berries 
Let  it  stand  twelve  hours,  stirring  now  and  then.    Su^in 
well,  pressing  out  all  the  juice.     Add 

3  lbs.  of  sugar  to  4  quarte  of  jmce. 
1  oz.  powdered  cinnamon. 
J  oz.  powdered  cloves. 
Boil  five  minutes,  and  set  away  to  ferment  in  a  utono 
jar,  with  a  cloth  thrown  lightly  over  it.    "When  it  ha»  doM 
fermenting,  rack  it  off  cai'cfully,  not  to  disturb  the  leea 
Bottle  and  cork  down  well. 


.dhyGoogle 


Ckabberry  Wise. 

Mash  ripe  berfies  to  a  pu]p ;  put  into  a  stone  jiu-. 

Add  1  quart  of  wat«r  to  2  quarts  of  berries. 

Stir  well  and  lut  it  stand  two  days.  Strain  through  a 
double  tianael  hag ;  masli  a  second  supply  of  berries,  equal 
in  quantity  to  the  first,  and  cover  with  this  liquid.  Steep 
two  days  more ;  sti-ain ;  add 

1  lb.  sugar  for  3  quarts  of  liquor, 
and  boil  live  minutes.     Let  it  ferment  in  lightly  covered 
jara ;  rack  off  and  bottle. 

This  is  said  to  be  very  good  for  scrofula. 

Strawberry  Wine, 
3  quarts  of  strawberries,  mashed  and  strained.     To  tha 
juice  (there  sliould  be  about  a  quart,  if  the  berries  are  ripa 
and  fresh)  add 

1  quart  of  water, 
1  lb.  of  sugar. 

Stir  up  well  and  ferment  in  a  clean,  sweet  cask,  leaving 
the  bung  out.  When  the  working  subsides  close  tightly,  or 
rack  off  into  bottles. 

This  is  said  by  those  who  have  tasted  it  to  he  very  good. 

Currant  "Wikb. 

Pick,  stem,  mash,  and  strain  the  currants,  which  should 
be  very  ripe. 

To  1  quart  of  juice  add 
f  lb.  white  sugar. 
^  pint  of  water. 

Stir  all  together  long  and  fl-ell ;  put  into  a  clean  cask, 
leaving  out  the  bung,  and  covering  the  whole  with  a  bit 


.dhyGoogle 


of  lace  or  mosquito  net.     Let  it  ferment  about  foui  weeka— 
rack  off  wlieu  it  is  quite  still,  and  bottlo. 

Jamaica  Gingek-beer. 
1  bottle  Jamaica,  Gijiger  Extract. 

6  quarts  water. 
1  lb.  sugar. 

Stir  until  the  sugar  ia  melted,  then  put  in  the  grat«d 
peel  of  a  lemon,  and  heat  until  blood-warm.  Add  a  tahle- 
B]ioonful  of  brewers'  yeast;  stir  well  and  bottlo,  wiring 
down  the  corks.     It  will  be  fit  for  use.  in  four  days. 

This  is  a  refresinng  and  healthful  beverage  mixed  with 
pounded  ice  in  hot  weather. 

Raisin  Wike. 

1  lb.  white  sugar, 

2  Iba.  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  lemon — all  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

2  gallons  boiling  water. 

Put  all  into  a  stone  jar,  and  stir  every  day  for  a  week. 
Strain,  then,  and  bottle  it.  It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  ten 
days. 

Lemobadb  ok  Sherbekt. 
3  lemons  to  a  quart  of  water, 
6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Vaxe  the  yellow  peel  from  the-  lemons,  and,  unless  you 
mean  to  use  the  sherbert  immediately,  leave  it  out     I' 
gives  a  hitter  taste  to  the  sugar  if  left  long  in  it.   *lice 
and  squeeze  the  lemons  upon  the  sugar,  add  a  very  little 
water,  and  let  them  stand  fifteen  minutes.     Then  fill  up 
with  water ;  ice  well,  stir,  and  pour  out. 


.dhyGoogle 


Okangeate 
Ib   made  in   tho   same  manner,    substituting 

Stuaivberey  Sherbeut.     (Delicious.) 
1  quart  of  strawberries. 
3  pints  of  ■water. 
1  lemon — tlie  juice  only. 
1  tables])  oouful  orange-flower  water. 
J  lb.  white  sugar. 

The  strawbeiTies  sliould  be  fresh  and  ripe.  Crush  to  a 
smooth  paste ;  add  the  rest  of  the  ingi-edicnts  {except 
tlie  sugar),  and  let  it  stand  three  hours.  Strain  over  the 
augar,  squeezing  the  cloth  hard ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved ;  strain  again  and  set  in  ice  for  two  hours  or  more 
before  you  use  it. 

EBGENT'a  PuKcn.     (Mne.) 
1  lb.  loaf-sugar  or  rock  candy. 
1  large  cup  strong  black  tea — (made). 
3  wine-glasses  of  brandy. 

1  bottle  champagne. 

2  oranges— juice  only. 


1  large  lump  of  ice. 

This  receipt  was  given  me  by  a  gentleman  of  the  old 
school,  a  connoisseur  in  the  matter  of  beverages  as  of 
coo|f  ry.  "  Tell  yoiir  readers,"  he  writes,  "  tliat  better 
punch  was  never  brewed,"     I   give  receipt  and  message 


.dhyGoogle 


COMMON   SBNSB. 


BoMAN  Punch. 


3  coffee  cups  of  lemonade — (strong  and  sweet). 
1  glasa  ctampagne. 

1  "     rum. 

2  oranges — juice  only. 

2  eggs — whites  only — well  whipped. 
J  lb,  powdered  sugar,  beaten  into  tbe  stiffened  wIuUmi 
You.  must  ice  abundantly — or,  if  you  prefer,  freeze. 

BhEERY    COBBI.GE. 

Several  slices  of  pineapple,  cub  in  quartCTB. 

A  lemon,  sliced  tliin. 

An  orange,         " 

■J  cup  of  powdered  sugar. 

1  tumbler  of  skerry  wine. 

Ice-water. 

Pounded  ice. 

Take  a  wide-moutbed  quart-pitcher  and  lay  the  sliced 
fruit  in  order  in  the  bottom,  sprinkling  sugar  and  pounded 
ice  between  the  layers.  Cover  with  sugar  ajid  ice,  and  let 
all  stand  together  five  mLuutes.  Add  then  two  tumblers  of 
water  tind  all  the  sugar,  and  stir  well  to  dissolve  this.  Fill 
the  pitcher  nearly  full  of  pounded  ice,  pour  in  the  wine, 
and  stir  up  from  the  bottom  until  the  ingredients  arfl 
thoroughly  mixed.  In  pouring  it  out  put  a  slice  of  each 
kind  of  fruit  in  each  goblet  ^ofore  adding  the  liquid. 

It  is  beat  sucked  through  a  straw  or  glass  tube. 

Nectau.   "f. 
Make  as  above,  substituting  a  little  rose-water  for  tta 
pineapple,  and  squeezing  out  the  juice  of  the  orange  an^ 


.dhyGoogle 


Iein<m,  iustead  of  putting  in  tlie  slices.     Spiinkle  nutmeg 
ou  the  top. 

This  forms    a    delicious  and    refreshijig  driui  for  Ip 
Talids, 

Claret  Pukch. 

1  bottle  of  claret. 

J  the  quantity  of  ice-water. 

2  lemons,  sliced. 

^  cup  powilered  sugar. 
Cover  the  sliced  lemon  with  sugar  and  let  it  stand  teD 
minutes.    Add  the  water ;  stir  hard  for  a  whole  minute,  and 
pour  in  the  wine.     Put  pounded  ice  in  each  glass  befora 
filling  with  the  mixture, 

EcO  NOGG.  »J« 
6  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very 

stiff. 
1  quart  rich  milk. 
■J- cup  of  sugqr, 
^  pint  best  brandy. 
Flavor  with  nutmeg. 
Stir  the  yolks  into  the  milk  with  the  sugar,  wliich  should 
first  be  beaten  with  the  yolks.     !Nexfc  comes  the  brandy. 
Lastly  whip  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs. 

Cherry  Bounce. 
4  lbs.  of  sour  and  the  same  quantity  of  sweet  cherries. 
2^  lbs.  white  sugar. 
1  gallon  best  whiskey. 
Crush  the  cherries  to  pieces  by  pounding  in  a   deep 
wooden  vessel  with  a  smooth  billet  of  wood.     Beat  hard 
enongh  to  crack  all  the  atones.     Put  into  a  deep  stone  jar; 
mix  in  the  siigar  well,  and  covei'  with  the  whiskey.     Siak» 


.dhyGoogle 


502  COMMON   SENSE. 

around  briskly  and   turn  into  a  demijohn.       Cork   tightlj 
and  let  it  stand  a  month,  shaking  it  every  day,  and  anothei 
month  without  touching  it.     Then  sttain  off  and  bottle. 
It  is  better  a  year  than  six  mouths  old. 

If  the  Maltese  cross  appears  but  seldom  in  the  section 
devoted  to  drinks,  it  ia  because  most  of  my  infonnation 
respecting  their  manufacture  ia  seoond-kand.  In  ray  own 
family  they  are  so  little  used,  except  in  siokneas,  that  I 
should  not  dare  to  teach  others,  upon  my  own  authority, 
how  to  prepare  thera.  Indeed,  the  temptation  I  felt  to  omit 
many  of  them  reminded  me  of  a  remark  made,  introductory 
of  preserves,  by  one  of  the  "  Complete  HousewiTes,"  who, 
all  five  together,  drove  me  to  the  verge  of  an  attack  of  con- 
gestion of  the  brain,  before  I  had  been  a  housekeeper  for  a 
week.  Said  this  judicious  lady  : — "  Preserves  of  all  kinda 
are  expensive  and  indigestible,  and  therefore  poisonoua. 
Therefore^'' — again — "  I  shall  not  give  directions  for  theii 
manufiicture,  except  to  remark  that  barberries  stewed  ir, 
molasses  are  economical,  and  a  degree  less  hurtful  than 
moat  others  of  that  class  of  compounds," 

Then  I  reflected  that  I  might,  upon  the  same  principle, 
exclude  all  receipts  in  which  cocoanut  ia  used,  because  it  ia 
rank  poison  to  me ;  while  a  dear  friend  of  mine  would  aa 
Boon  touch  arsenic  aa  an  egg.  A  large  majority  of  the 
beverages  I  have  named  are  highly  medicinal,  and  deserva 
a  pla«e  in  the  housekeeper's  calendar  on  that  account, 
Majiy,  so  far  irom  being  hurtful,  ai-e  beneficial  to  a  woak 
stomach  or  a  system  suffering  under  general  debility. 
JVone  which  contain  alcohol  in  any  aliape  should  be  itsea 
daily,  viuch  less  semi-  or  tri^daily  hy  a  well  person. 

This  principle  reduced  to  practice  would  prove  the  pre- 
ventive  ounce  which  would  cure,  all  over  the  land,  Uie  need 
foi  T.sraperance  Societies  and  Inebriate  Aayluma, 


.dhyGoogle 


I!   8ICK-EO0M. 


THE  SICK-EOOM. 


The  sick-chamber  should  be  the  most  quiet  arid  cheerful 
in  the  house — a  sacred  isle  past  which  the  waves  of  domes- 
tic toil  and  solicitude  glide  silently.  This  is  not  an  easy 
nde  to  obey.  Whoever  the  invalid  may  be,  whotlier  tlie 
mother,  father,  or  the  sweet  youngling  of  tlie  flock,  the 
foundations  of  the  household  seem  thrown  out  of  course 
while  the  sickness  lasts.  You  may  have  good  servants  and 
kind  friends  to  aid  you,  but  the  hitch  in  the  machinery  is 
not  to  be  smoothed  out  by  their  efforts.  The  irregulai-ity 
does  not  annoy  you :  you  do  not  notice  it  if  the  attack  bo 
severe  or  dangerous..  All  other  thoughts  are  swallowed  up 
in  the  all-absorbing,  ever-present  alarm.  You  count  noth- 
ing an  inconvenience  that  can  bring  present  relief,  or  possi- 
ble healing  to  the  heloYod  one ;  disdain  for  yourself  rest  or 
ease  while  the  shadow  hangs  above  the  jiillow  crushed  by 
the  helpless  head.  But  when  it  passes,  when  the  first 
transport  of  thankfulness  haa  subsided  into  an  abiding  sense 
of  safety,  the  mind  swings  back  to  the  accustomed  pivot, 
and  your  eyes  seem  to  be  suddenly  unbound.  You  find,  with 
dismay,  that  the  children  have  run  wild,  and  the  comfort  of 
the  whole  family  been  neglected  during  your  confinement  to 
the  post  of  most  urgent  duty;  with  displeasure,  that  the 
servants  have,  as  you  consider,  taken  advantage  of  your 
situation  to  omit  this  task,  and  to  slur  over  tta,t; — in 
fine,  that  nothing  has  been  done  well,  and  so  many  things 
left  altogather  undone,  that  you  are  "  worried  out  of  your 
senses" — a  phrase  that  too  often   signifies,    out  of  your 

And  it  is  just  at  this  junctui-e — ^when  you  are  called  to 
fifty  points  of  attention  and  labor  at  once,  and  are  on  the 
verge  of  despair  at  the  conglomeration  worse  conglomerated 
arising  before  you ;  fidgetting  to  pick  up  dropped  stitches  in 


.dhyGoogle 


504  COMMON    BEN8E. 

tlie  ■wet  you  ■were  ■wont  to  kepp  so  even — that  the  invalid 
becomes  most  exacting.  "  Unriiasonaljle,"  you  name  it  to 
yourself,  even  thougli  it  be  John  himself  who  calls  upon 
you  every  third  minute  for  some  little  office  of  loving-kind- 
ness; ■who  wants  to  he  amused  and  fed  and  petted,  and 
made  generally  comfortable  as  if  he  ■were  a  six-mouths-old 
baby  ;  ■who  never  remembers  that  you  must  be  wearied  out 
with  waloiiing  and  anxiety,  and  that  everything  below- 
aiaira  is  going  to  destruction  for  the  want  of  a  balauce- 
wheel.  The  bettor  he  loves  you  the  more  apt  is  he  to  fancy 
that  nobody  but  you  can  do  anything  for  him ;  the  more 
certain  to  craye  something  which  no  one  else  knows  how  to 
prepare.  And  when  you  have  strained  muscle  and  patience 
a  littie  further  to  get  it  ready,  and  with  prudent  foresight 
made  enough  to  last  for  several  meals,  it  is  more  than 
probable  that  his  fickle  taste  will  suggest  something  entire- 
ly different  for  "  next  time."  "  Just  for  a  change,  you 
know,  dear.     One  gets  so  tired  of  eating  tho  same  thing  so 

He  might  be  more  considerate — less  childish — you 
think,  turning  away  that  he  may  not  see  your  change  of 
countenance.  When  you  have  taken  so  much  pains  to 
suit  him  exactly !  It  is  harder  yet  when  he  refuses  to 
do  more  than  tasto  the  delicacy  you  lioped  would  tempt 

"  It  is  very  nice,  I  suppose,  my  love,"  says  the  poor 
follow,  ■with,  the  air  of  a  martyr.  "But  it  does  not  taste 
right,  somehow.  Maybe  the  childi-en  can  dispose  of  it.  If 
I  had  a  lemon  ice,  or  some  wine  jelly  such  as  my  mother 
used  to  make,  I  ani  sure  I  could  relish  it.  I  always  did 
detest  sick  peoples'  diet !  " 

If  he  is  very  much  shaken  as  to  nerves,  he  will  be  like". j 

"  I  am  fairly  wild  !  "  said  a  loving  wife  and  moth(  r,  and 


.dhyGoogle 


THE   6ICK-EOOM,  508 

thnftj  h  usekeeper  to  m?  one  div  Tilieii  I  i.t.11    I  to  see 

bhe  hod  just  niirsed  lior  Iiubbmd  and  tl  ilo  children 
througli  tke  influenza  All  hi  i  been  down  with  it  at  once. 
That  foini  of  demoniacal  possession  is  ^eneiallj  conducted 
upon  the  wholesale  punci]  le  One  of  hei  servants  had 
left  m  dii.j,ust  at  the  uicrnase !  jie^isiie  of  work;  the 
weathei  waa  rainy,  blowy  law,  tho  streets  were  muddy, 
and  th  re  was  no  BUL.h  thmff  as  kt,e[  ing  steps  and  halls 
clean  while  the  iim  invalids  nere  ciosa  as  only  tootliache 
or  influenza  can  make  human,  beings 

I  am  fairly  wild!  said  the  woitliy  creature,  with 
te-us  in  her  eyes  I  cannot  sn^t  li  a  minute  fiom  niorn- 
tng  until  night  to  put  things  stiai^ht  an  !  jet  I  am  almost 
tirel  to  death  '  I  Mas  sa^mg  to  mjselt  as  v^n  came  in,  that 
I  wouldn  t  try  any  ha^ei  I  would  just  sit  still  untU  the 
dirt  was  ]  lied  up  to  my  chin,  and  the  i  In  ovll  yH  upon  Ae 
taUef 

How  often  I  have  thought  of  her  odd  speech  eince  1 
sometimes  with  a  smile— more  frequently  with  a  sigh.  But 
■with  all  my  ])ity  for  the  nurse  and  housekeeper,  I  cannot 
conceal  from  myself — I  would  not  forget,  or  let  you  for- 
get for  a  moment — the  truth  that  the  sick  one  is  the  greater 
sufferer.  It  is  never  pleasant  to  be  laid  upon  the  shelf. 
The  resting-place — falsely  so-called — is  hard  aud  narrow 
and  uneven  enough,  even  when  the  ti-amp  of  the  outer  world 
does  not  jar  the  sore  and  jaded  frame ;  when  there  is  no  ap- 
parent need  for  the  sick  person  to  be  upon  his  feet,  and  for 
auglit  that  others  can  see,  or  he  can  say,  he  might  just  a» 
well  stay  where  he  is  for  a  month  or  two.  But  when,  the 
rack  of  paiu  having  benn  removed,  the  dulled  perceptions 
of  the  mind  re-awaken  to  sensitiveness,  and  there  comes  tu 
his  ear  the  bugle-call  of  duty — sharj),  imperative ; — when 
every  idle  moment  speaks  to  him   of  a  slain  opportunity, 


.dhyGoogle 


609  OOUMON   BENSi:. 

and  the  no  longer  strong  man  shakes  his  fettora  with  piteoaa 
cries  against  late,  do  not  despise  or  be  impatient  with  him. 
He  is  feverish  and  inconsiderate  and  capriciona  because  ]ka 
IS  n  t  hun    If     Y  uly  th     p        wr    k  1  ft  ly  tlw 

dmnasht        L  tfhimttlDu     com- 

n  a  1      G  th       t     p  1  ly  u  y  1  e  it 

1     k  t      t        th       d      m  Im  Th        k    1      Id    1  vaya 

b  th  hi  f  Ij  t  f  th  ht  anl  ca  wi  h  U  the 
h  hli  Ifndb  Itthditl  hmli  ery- 
Ith  1  1  n     as       la  k  It       t     f  th  t  ora. 

Th        b    J     1        m  y    ir  t!    t  n  tl  ing     If  n  I      ight 

and  smell. 

There  should  be  no  smell  in  a  aick-chamber.  To  avoid 
this,  lob  in  the  an-  freely  and  often.  Cologne-water  will 
not  dispel  a  foul  odor,  -while  disinfectants  ai-e  noisome  in 
themselves.  Bathe  the  patient  as  frequently  and  thor- 
oughly as  prudence  will  allow,  (md  change  his  clothing, 
with  tlie  bed-linen,  every  day.  Bo  not  keep  the  medicines 
where  he  can  see  them,  nor  ever  let  him  witness  the  mix- 
ing of  that  which  he  is  to  swallow..  So  soon  aa  his  meals 
are  over,  remove  every  vestige  of  them  from  the  room. 
Even  a  soiled  spoon,  lying  on  table  or  burean,  may  offead 
his  fastidious  appetite.  Cover  the  stand  or  waiter  from 
which  he  eats  with  a  spotless  napkin,  and  serve  his  food  in 
jour  daintiest  ware. 

My  heiirt  softens  almost  to  tearfulness  when  T  recall  the 
hours,  days,  weeks,  I  have  myself  spent  m  the  chamber  o( 
languishing,  and  the  ingenuity  of  tei  demesa  that,  from  my 
babyhood,  has  striven  to  cheit  the  impiisonment  of  weari- 
ness and  make  me  forget  pirn  and  uselessness  The  pretty 
surprises  daily  invented  for  my  enteitamment ,  the  exceed, 
ing  nicety  with  which  they  were  set  out  before  me ,  the 
loving  words  that  nourished  my  spirit  wlie  tl  e  liodv  was 
faint  unto  death, — these  are  t^  enta,  nut  slight  mi,idi,nts,  in 


.dhyGoogle 


THE    BIOK-EOOM.  507 

tio  book  of  memory.  When  T  peaae  to  be  grateful  for  tl  em, 
ot  to  learn  from  them  how  to  minister  unto  others  of  tha 
like  consolation,  may  my  heart  forget  to  beat,  my  right  himrf 
lose  her  cunning  1 

Do  not  ask  your  charge  what  he  would  lite  to  eat  to 
day.  He  will,  of  a  surety,  sicken  with  the  effort  at  selection 
and  say,  "  Nothing !  "  But  wutch  attentively  for  the  slight- 
est intimation  of  a  deaii-e  for  any  particular  delicacy,  and  H 
you  are  assured  that  it  cannot  hurt  him,  procure  it,  if  you 
can,  witliout  letting  him  gaess  at  your  intention.  Feed  him 
lightly  and  often,  never  bringing  more  into  .his  sight  tlian 
he  may  safely  eat.  A  big  bowl  of  broth  or  jelly  will  either  ■ 
tempt  him  to  imprudence,  or  discourage  him.  "  Am  I  to 
be  burdened  with  all  that  ?  "  ories  the  affrighted  stomach, 
and  will  have  none  of  it.  While  he  is  very  weak,  feed  him 
with  your  own  hajid,  playfully,  as  you  would  a  child,  talk- 
ing cheerily  of  something  besides  his  food,  and  coaj:ing  him 
into  taking  the  needed  nutriment  as  only  a  wife  and  mother 
can,  or  as  nobody  but  John  could  beguile  you  to  effort  in 
the  same  direction. 

Study  all  pleasant  and  soothing  arts  to  while  away  tho 
time,  and  keep  worry  of  every  kind  away  fiom  hitii.  A 
triSe  at  which  you  can  laugh  will  be  a  burden  to  the  en- 
feebled mind  and  body,  and  he  has  nothing  to  do  but  lie 
Btill  and  roU  it  over  until  it  swells  into  a  mountain.  When 
he  can  be  removed  without  danger,  let  him  have  his  racals 
in  another  room,  changing  the  air  of  each  when  he  is  not 
in  it.  Every  one  who  has  suffered  from  long  sickness 
knows  the  peculiar  loathing  attendant  upon  the  idea  that  all 
lood  is  tainted  with  the  atmosphere  of  the  chamber  in  whirih 
it  ie  served,  and  if  eaten  in  bed,  tastes  of  the  mattress  ai>d 
pillows.  The  room  and  all  in  it  may  be  clean,  fresh,  ajd 
sweet,  but  the  fancy  cannot  be  dismissed.  And  it  is  flinn 
to  hun'or  than  to  reason  with  most  sick  fancies. 


.dhyGoogle' 


508  COMMON   SENSE. 

A  hired  muse  is  a  iiseful,  often  a  necessary  thing,  but 
while  you  are  upon  your  feet,  and  mistress  of  your  Own 
house,  delegati  to  no  one  the  precious  task  of  catering  for 
the  dear  suffeier.  It  is  an  art  in  itsel£  I  hope  a  practical 
knowledge  of  it  will  be  taught  in  "Women's  Medical  Colleges, 
when  they  are  an  established  "  institution  "  with  us. 

I  wish  it  were  proper  to  record  here  the  name  of  one  of 
tlie  kindest  and  bes',  family  physicians  I  ever  knew,  who 
had  charge  of  my  not  very  firm  health  during  my  girlhood. 
He  owed  much— 1  suppose  no  one  ever  knew  really  how 
much— of  his  success  in  his  practice  to  liis  tact  and  slrill  in 
devising  palatable  and  suitable  nourishment  for  his  patients. 
I  well  remember  the  childish  pleasure  with  which  I  would 
hear  him  say  when  the  violence  of  the  attack  liad  passed — 
"  Now,  my  dear  child,  we  must  begin  witli  kitchen  physic  !" 
and  the  glow  of  amused  expectation  with  which  I  used  to 
watch  him,  as,  with  an  arch  show  of  myscei-y,  he  would 
beckon  my  mother  from  the  room  to  receive  hia  "  prescrip 
tioo  ; "  the  impatience  with  which  I  awaited  the  result  of 
the  conference,  and  the  zest  with  which  I  ate  whatever  he 


If  I  could  have  persuaded  him  to  manage  this  depart- 
ment of  my  work,  it  would  win  for  me  the  degree  of  M.D, 
with  a  new  meaning — Mistress  of  Dietetics. 


THE  SICK-EOOM. 

Beef  Tea.  4" 

1  lb.  leaM  beef,  ent  into  small  pieces. 

Put  into  ajar  without  a  droji  of  water;  cover  tightly, 

Mid  set  in  a  pot  of  cold  water.     Heat  gradually  to  a  boil, 

and  continue  this  steadily  for  three  or  four  hours,  untD  tha 


.dhyGoogle 


THE   BIOK-EOOM.  5frti 

meat  is  like  wHto  rags,  and  the  juice  all  drawn  out.  Sea- 
son with  salt  to  taste,  and  when  cold,  skim.  The  patient 
will  often  prefer  this  ioe-coid  to  hot.  Serve  with  Aibei-t 
biscuit  or  thin  "  wafers,"  unleavened,  or  made  by  a  receipl 
given  under  the  head  of  Bkead. 

Mutton  BitOTU.  •{■ 
1  lb.  lean  mutton  or  lamb,  cut  small. 
I  quart  water — cold, 
1  tablespoonful  rice,  or  barley,  soaked  in  a  very  little 

4  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

Salt  and  iJepper,  with  a  little  chopped  jiarsley. 

Boil  the  meat,  unsaltcd,  in  the  water,  keeping  it  closely 
covered,  until  it  falls  to  pieces.  Strain  it  out,  add  the 
soaked  barley  or  rice ;  simmer  half  an  hour,  stirring  often  ; 
stir  in  the  seasoning  and  the  milk,  and  simmer  five  naLn\ite3 
after  it  lieats  up  well,  taking  care  it  does  not  burn. 

Serve  hot,  with  cream  crackers. 

Chicken  Broth,  ija 
Is  excellent  made  in  the  same  manner  as  mutton,  crack- 
ing the  bones  well  before  yoa  put  in  the  fowl. 

Veal  and  Sago  Bboth. 

2  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal,  crackeiall  to  pieces. 

3  quarts  of  cold  water. 

3  tablesjioonfuls  best  pearl  sago,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  cold 

1  cup  cream,  heated  to  boiling. 
Yolks  of  two  e^s,  beaten  light. 
Boil  the  veal  and  water  in  a  covered  saucepan  verj 


.dhyGoogle 


610  COMMON   SEKBE. 

slowly  until  reduced  to  one  qiiai-t  of  Iic[iiid ;  strain,  eeasoa 
with  salt,  and  stit  hx  the  soaked  sago  (liaviiig  previouslj 
warmed  it  hy  setting  for  half  an  Jiour  in  a  saucepan  of 
boiling  water,  and  stirred  froni  time  to  time).  Simmei 
lialf  an  hour,  taking  care  it  does  not  burn;  beat  ia  tha 
cream  and  eggs ;  give  one  good  boil  up,  and  turn  out, 
Tliis  is  excellent  for  consumptives. 

Beef  and  Sago  Broth. 

2  lbs.  of  beef— cut  up  small. 

2  quarts  of  water. 

1  cup  of  sago,  soaked  soft  in  a  little  lukewarm  water. 

Yolks  of  three  e^s. 

Salt  to  taste. 

Stew  the  beef  until  it  falls  to  pieces;  strain  it  out,  salt 
elie  liquid  and  stir  in  the  sago.  Simmer  gently  one  hour, 
stirring  often.     Add   the  beaten  yolks ;  boil  up  well  and 

This  is  a  sti-engthening  and  nice  aoup.      Eat  with  dry 

Akrowroot  Jeij,y  (plain).  •{• 

1  cup  boiling  water, 

2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  beat  Bermuda  arrowroot. 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice. 

2  teaspooiifuls  of  white  sugar, 

"Wet  the  arrowroot  in  a  Kttle  cold  water,  and  rub 
smooth.  Then  stir  into  the  hot,  which  should  bo  on  the 
fire  and  actually  boiling  at  the  time,  with  the  sugar  already 
melted  in  it.  Stir  until  clear,  boiling  steadily  all  the  while, 
and  add  the  lemon.  Wet  a  cup  in  cold  water,  and  pour  in 
the  jilly  to  form.  Eat  cold  with  sugar  and  cream  flai-ored 
with  roaewater. 


;dhyGoogle 


THE   SICK-EOOM.  511 

An  invaJuaUe  preparation  in  cases  where  wino  ia  for 
bidden. 

Akrowkoot  Wine  Jelly.  »J" 

1  mip  boiling  water. 

2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  arrowroot. 
2  "  white  sugar. 

1  tables])  oonful  brand}',  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  srine. 
An  excellent  corrective  to  weak  bowels. 

Arrowroot  Blanc- wakge.  ■{• 

1  cupful  boUinff  milk. 

2  dessertspoonfuls  hest   arrowroot,  nihbEjd   smooth   in 

cold  water. 
2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 
Vanilla  or  other  essence. 

Bail  until  it  thickens  well,  stirring  all  the  wliile.     Eat 
told  with  cream,  flavored  with  rosewatcr,  and  sweetened  to 

Saoo 
May  be  substituted  for  arrowroot  in  any  of  the  forego- 
ing receipts,  when  you  liave  soaked  it  an  hour  m  water 
poui-ed  over  it  cold,  and  gradually  warmed  by  setting  the 
cup  containing  it  in  hot  water.  Boil  rather  longer  than 
you  do  the  arrowroot. 

Sago  Gruel.  •{• 
2  cups  water, 

2  table  spoonfuls  sago. 

3  teaspoonfuls  white  hu^  »r. 
1  glass  of  wine. 

1  ta,blespoonful  lemon  juice. 
Nutiiieg  to  taste,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 


.dhy.Google 


512  COMMON   BBNSE. 

Put  the  sago  in.  the  water  while  cold,  and  warm  bj 
Betting  ill  a  saucejian  of  boiling JTater.  Stir  often,  and  lei 
it  soften  and  heat  for  one  haur.  Then  boil  tea  iniuutes, 
stirring  all  the  while;  add  the  sugar,  wine,  and  lemon,  and 
potir  into  a  bowl  or  mould  to  cool.  Eat  warm,  if  preferred. 
The  wine  and  nutmeg  should  be  omitted  if  the  patient  ia 
feverish, 

Indian  MeaiT  Gruel.  »{« 
2  (jnarts  of  boiling  water. 
]  cup  of  Indian  meal,  and 

1  tablespoonful  Sour,  wet  up  with  cold  water. 
Salt  to  taste — and,  if  jou  like,  sugar  and  nutmeg, 
Wet  the  meal  and  flour  to  a  smooth  pa.'ste,  and  stir  into 
blie  water  while  it  is  actually  boiling.  Boil  slowly  half  an 
hour,  stirring  up  well  from  the  bottom.  Season  with  salt 
to  taste.  Some  sweeten  it,  but  I  like  it  better  with  a  little 
pepper  added  to  the  salt. 

If  a  cathartic  ia  desired,  omit  the  wheat  flour  altogether. 

Oatmeal  Gruel 
Is  made  in  the  same  way. 

MiLit  AND  EjcB  Gruei- 

1  quart  boiling  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  (heaping)  of  ground  rice,  wet  witfi  cold 

1  saltspooiiful  of  salt.     ,  * 

Stir  in  the  rice-paste  and  boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  all 

the  while.     Season  with  feugar  and  nutmeg,  and  eat  warm 

You  may  use  Indian  meal  instead  of  rice-flouTj  wUicl- 
is  an  astringent.     In  this  case,  boil  Ii^ilf  an  hour. 


;dhyGoogle 


THE   SICK-KOOM.  513 

Dried  Fi.outt  for  Teethimq  Children. 

1  cnp  of  flour,  tied  in  a  stout  muslin  bag  aad  dropjwd 
Lito  cold  water,  then  set  over  the  fire. 

SoU  three  hours  steadily.  Turn  out  tho  flour  baU 
and  dry  in  the  hot  aun  all  day  ;  or,  if  you  need  it  at  oncg 
dry  in  a  moderiite  oven  without  shutting  the  door. 

To  me  it- 
Orate  n  tablespoonful  for  a  cupful  of  boiling  milk  and 
water  {half  and  half).    Wet  up  the  flour  with  a  very  little 
cold  water,  stir  in  and  boil  five  minutes.     Put  in  a  little 

TiPiocA  Jelly.  •}■    (  Yery  good.) 

1  cup  of  tapioca. 

3  cups  of  cold  water. 

Juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  pinch  of  the  grated  peel. 

Sweeten  to  taste. 
Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  water  four  hours.  Set  within 
a  saucepan  of  boiling  water;  pour  more  luke-warm  water 
over  the  tapioca  if  it  has  absorbed  too  much  of  the  liquid, 
and  heat,  stirring  frequently.  If  too  thick  after  it  begins 
to  clear,  put  in  a  very  little  boiling  water.  When  quite 
clear,  put  in  the  sugar  and  lemon.  Pour  into  moulds.  Eat 
cold,  with  cream  flavored  with  rosewater  and  sweetened. 

Tapioca  Blakc-mange.  tj* 
1  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  in  2  cups  cold  water. 
3  cups  boiling  milk, 
3  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 
Eosewater  or  vanilla. 

Soak  the  tajiioca  four  hours,  and  stir,  with  the  water  in 
wMch  it  was  soak^,  into  the  boiling  milk.     Sweetec  and 


H-,  ■..Google 


boil  slowly,  stirring  all  the  while,  fifteen,  rainutea,     Tak* 
off,  flavor  and  pour  into  moulds. 

Eat  cold  iritli  cream.    Wash  tapioca  well  before  soaking. 

Arrowroot  Custahd.     (JVice.) 

2  cups  of  boUinff  milk. 

3  heaping  teaspoonfuls  arrowroot,  wet  up  with  a  littla 

cold  milk. 

2  tablespoonfids  white  sugar,  beaten  with  the  egg. 

1  egg,  very  well  beaten. 

Mix  the  arrowroot-])aste  witli  the  boiling  mDk ;  etir 
three  minutes;  take  from  the  fire  aad  whip  in  the  egg  and 
Bugar.  Boil  two  minutes  longer,  flavor  with  ranilla  or 
roaewater,  and  pour  into  mo\ilds. 

Rice-Flour  Milk. 

3  cups  of  milk,  boiling, 

2  tahleapoonfuls  rice-flour,  wet  up  with  cold  milk. 

2  "  white  sugar. 

BoD  ten  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while,  and  flavor  to 
tast*.     Eat  warm  with  cream. 

Sago  Mile.  »{i 

3  tablespoonfuls  sago,  soaked  in  a  large  cup  cold  wa,Ua 

3  cups  boiling  milk. 
Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste. 

slowly  half  an  hour.     Eat  warm. 

Tapioca  Milk 
the  same  way. 


;dhyGoogle 


THE   8ICK-K0OM-  OlS 

Boiled  Kioe.  •{• 
(  cop  whole  riee,boilediiiju3t  enough  water  to  cover  it 
1    "    of  milk. 
A  little  salt. 
1  ogg,  beaten  light. 

When  the  rice  is  nearly  done,  turn  off  the  -water,  add 
tlie  milk  and  simmer — taking  care  it  does  not  Bcorch — until 
the  "ink  boils  up  wel].     Salt,  and  beat  in  the  egg. 

Eat  warm  with  cream,  sugar,  and  nutmeg. 

Panada.  •{< 
6  Boston  crackers,  split. 
2  tablespoonfiils  white  sugar. 
A  good  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 
Enough  hoUinff  water  to  cover  them  well. 

Split  the  crackers,  and  pile  in  a  bowl  iu  layers,  salt  and 
Bugar  scattered  among  them.  Cover  with  boiling  water 
and  set  on  the  hearth,  with  a  close  top  over  the  bowl,  for 
at  least  one  hour.  The  crackers  should  be  almost  clear 
and  soft  as  jelly,  biit  not  broken. 

Eat  from  the  bowl,  with  more  sugar  sprinkled  in  if  you 
wish  it.     If  properly  made,  this  panada  is  very  nice. 

Bebad  Panada,  or  Jbily.  •{« 
Pare  some  slices  of  stale  baker's  bread  and  toast  nicely, 
without  b\irning.  Pile  in  a  bowl,  sprinkling  sugar  and  a 
very  little  salt  between ;  cover  well  with  hoiling  water, 
and  set,  with  a  tight  lid  upon  the  top,  in  a  pan  of  boiliug 
water.  Simmer  gently,  until  the  contents  of  the  bowl  aro 
ike  jelly.     Eat  warm  with  powdered  sngar  and  nutmeg; 


;dhyGoogle 


616 


COMMON   SENSE. 


Chicken  Jelly.     (  Very  notmshing.)  >{■ 

Half  a  raw  chicken,  pounded  with  a  mallet,  bones  and 
meat  together. 

Plenty- of  cold  water  to  cover  it  well— aSoMi  a  quarS. 
Heat  slowly  in  a  covered  vessel,  and  let  it  simmer  uoti] 
the  meat  is  in  white  rags  and  the  Hqiiid  reduced  on&-half. 
Strdin  and  press,  first  through  a  cullender,  then  through  a 
coarse  cloth.  Salt  to  tast«,  and  pepper,  if  you  think  best; 
return  to  the  fire,  and  simmer  five  minutes  longer.  Skim 
when  cool.  Give  to  the  patient  cold— just  from  the  ice— 
with  unleavened  wafers.  Keep  on  the  ice.  You  can  make 
into  sandwiches  by  putting  the  jelly  between  thin  sHces  oJ 
bread  ajiread  lightly  with  butter. 

Calves'  Feet  Bboth. 
3  calves'  feet. 
2  (juarta  cold  water, 
1  egg,  beaten  up  with  two  tableapoonfuls  milk  for  each 

cupful  of  brotli. 
Pepper  and  salt. 

Boil  the  feet  to  slireds;  strain  the  liquor  through  a 
double  miislin  bag ;  season  to  taste,  and  set  by  for  use,  as 
you  need  it.  Warm  by  the  small  quantity,  aJIowing  to 
each  cupful  a  beaten  egg  and  two  tablespoonfiils  of  milk. 
Give  a  good  boil  up  to  cook  these,  and  serve  with  thin,  crisp 
toast.  If  the  patieat  can  take  it,  a  dash  of  lemon-juice  im- 
proves the  broth. 

Toast  Watek.  *^ 

Slices  of  toast,  nicely  browned,  without  a  symptom  cf 

burning. 
Enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them. 


.dhyGoogle 


THE   BICK-EOOM.  51] 

Cover  closely,  and  let  them  steep  until  cold.  Sti'ain  thfl 
water,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  ]>iit  a  piece  of  ice  in  each,  gliisf- 
ful.  If  the  physician  thinks  it  safe,  add  a  little  lemon 
juice. 

Apple  Water.  •J* 

1  large  juicy  pippin,  the  most  finely-Havered  you  can 
get. 

3  cups  of  cold  water — 1  quart  if  the  ajiple  is  very 

Pare  and  quarter  the  apj>le,  but  do  not  core  it.  Put  it 
on  the  fire  in  3  tin  or  porcelaiu  saucepan  with  the  water, 
and  boil,  closely  covered,  until  the  apple  stews  to  pieces. 
Strain  the  liquor  at  once,  pressing  the  apple  hard  in  the  cloth. 
Strain  this  again  through  a  finer  bag,  and  set  away  to  cool. 
Sweeten  with  white  sugar,  and  ice  for  drinking. 

It  is  a  refreshing  and  palatable  drink. 

Jelly  Water.  ■}« 
I  large  teaspoonful  currant  or  cranberry  jelly, 
1  goblet  ice-water. 
Beat  up  well  for  a  fever-patient. 

Wild  cherry  or  blackberry  j  elly  is  excellent,  prepared 
in  like  manner  for  those  suffering  with  summer  complaint. 

Flax-seed  Lemonade.  •}« 

4  tablospoonfiila  flax-seed  (whole), 

1  quart  boiling  water  poured  upon  the  flax-seed. 
Juic«  of  two  lemons,  leaving  out  the  peel. 
Sweeten  to  taste. 
Steep  three  hours  in  a  covered  pitcher.     If  too  I'jick, 
[jut  in  cold  water  with  the  lemon-juice  and  sugar.     Ice  foi 
drinking. 

Jt  is  admirable  for  colds. 


.dhyGoogle 


OOIOroN   SENSE, 


cov^'iSw 't;r: '!?■'?' ""^—"M 


Slippery-elu  Bahk  Tea. 

Apple  Toddy,  t^ 

.t  1.,  b„k«  to  p,e„e,  ,t,^  ^j  ,^^ 

"till  boilmg-hot,  add  a  eks^  «f  fi„=     , j  "  •^'«  "  u 

■„      ■   ■  »  '  "^s  old  whiskey,  a  littlH 

■imon-jmoe,  and  iweeten  to  ta.te. 
Take  tot  at  bed-time  for  ioJaeiLja. 

Milk  Punch.  ^ 

1  tnmblep  of  milk,  »ell  ametened 

2  taWespoonful,  biait  br«,dy,  »ell  stimsd  in. 

Ego  and  Milk  Punch  4, 
fa   made-  by  tte  preceding   receipt,    wi+i, 

rS'""'"-----^--e2Sd; 

IcEii..ro  o.  i„a.  Moss  L.hobam.  ^. 

3  l.m«a,  peeled  ^^  ^ic^d,  le.ri„g  „„t  the  peel 
Sweeten  very  well  and  ice. 
^  Do  not  ...dn,  „.,  i,  „  ^i^^,^  ^^  ^^^^^  ^^  ^^^, 

E„„ne.t  for  feverisl  eold.  and  all  p„l„,..^  ,„„„„ 


.dhyGoogle 


THE   SICK-EOOM.  519 

IcELAHD  OR  IiiiSH  Moss  Jelly.  •{< 
1  landful  moss,  washed  in  five  waters,  and  soaked  an 

1  quart  boiling  water. 

2  iemons — tlie  juice  only. 
1  gtas  of  wine. 

^  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  (Measure  scantily.) 
Soak  the  washed  moss  in  a  very  Kttle  cold  water;  stir 
Into  the  LoilJDg,  and  simmer  until  it  is  dissolved.  Sweeten, 
flavor,  and  strain  into  moulds.  You  may  use  two  glasses 
of  cider  instead  of  one  of  wine  for  a  fever-patient,  putting 
Ln  a  little  less  water. 

Good  for  colds,  and  very  nourishing. 

Sea-moss  Blauomabqe 
Is  made  in  the  same  way,  using  boiling  milk  instead  of 
water,  and  leaving  out  the  lemons  and  wine.     Flavor  witt 
vanilla  or  rose-water. 

Dry  Toast. 

Pare  off  the  crust  from  stale  light  bread ;  slice  half  an 
inch  thick  and  toast  quicJdy.  Graham  bread  is  very  nice 
toasted. 

Butter  lightly  if  the  patient  can  eat  butter. 

Milk  Toast.  4" 
Toast  as  just  directed ;  dip  each  slice,  as  it  cornea  from 
the  toaster,  in  boiling  wat«r ;  butter,  salt  slightly,  and  lay 
b  a  deep  covered  dish.  Have  ready  in  a  saucepan  enough 
boiling  milk  to_cover  all  well.  When  your  slices  are  packed 
Bait  this  very  sKghtly  ;  melt  in  it  a  bit  of  butter  and  pom 
over  them.       Cover  closely  and   let  it   stand  five  minutee 


.dhyGoogle 


520  COMMON   8EH8B. 

before  using  it.      It  is  excellent  wlien  made  of  Graham 

This i'i  a  g  tl  lish  for  a  f unily  tea  ts  'irell  as  for  inva- 
Uds 

Unieave\ed  Bis  lit,  or  Waters  ^ 

Mii.  good,  iry  Sour  to  a  stiff  dough  with  milk ;  salt^ 
and  roll  out  tlim  Cut  into  rouu  1  i.  Lea  and  roll  theso 
agim  ilmost  IS  thin  as  lettei  j  aper      B  ike  very  quickly. 

They  mij  also  be  mixed  with  Wdtei  Tl  ese  are  very 
Simple  ind  j  iUUhle  ■ml  gi  well  with  all  kinds  of  broth, 
eti  (.1  llv    \sti,r  s  u] 

Dried  Eusk.     {See  Bread.) 

Eeee  Steak  and  Muttos  Chops. 

Clioose  the  teudercst  cuts  and  broil  over  a  clear  hot  fire 
witli  your  wisest  skill.  Let  the  steak  be  rare — the  cho2>s 
well-done.  Salt  and  pepper,  lay  between  two  hot  plates 
three  minutes,  and  serve  to  your  patient.  If  ho  is  very 
weak,  do  cot  let  him  swallow  anything  except  the  juice, 
when  lie  has  chewed  the  meat  vrell. 

The  essence  of  rare  heef-^roast  or  broiled — thus  ex- 
pressed, is  considered  by  some  physicians  to  be  mora 
strcngthemng  thaa  beef-tea,  prepared  in  the  usual  manner. 

Sangakbb  or  Porteree. 
One-tliird   wine  or  porter  mixed  with  two-tliirds  cold 
water.      Sweeten,  grate  nutmeg  on  the  to]*,  and  ice. 

Serve  dry  toast  with  it.  Taken  hot,  it  is  good  for  a  sni 
den  cold. 

Wine  Whey. 
1  pint  boiling  milk. 

1  large  gla.s3  pale  wirie,  poured  in  when  the  milk  ii 
Bcaliling  hot.     Boil  u]>  once,  remove  from  the  fire  and  let  it 


.dhyGoogle 


THE   SICK-KOOM.  521 

cool.     Do  not  stir  it  after  tie  iiTiie  is  put  in.     When  tha 
curd  forma,  draw  off  the  whoy  anil  swe«ten. 


Are  male  by  infusing  the  dried  or  green  leaves  and  stalk* 
in  boiliiig  water,  and  letting  them  ataud  until  cold.  Sweeten 
to  taste. 

Sage  tea,  sweetened  with  honey,  is  good  for  a  sore  throat, 
■naed  as  a  gai-gle,  witli  a  small  bit  of  alum  dissolved  in  it. 

Catnip  tea  is  the  best  panacea  for  infant  ills,  in  the  way 
of  cold  and  colic,  known  to  nurses. 

Pennyroyal  tea  will  often  avert  the  unpleasant  conse- 
qnences  of  a  sudden  check  of  pei'spii'ation,  or  the  evils  in- 
duced by  ladies'  thin  shoes. 

Chamomile  and  gentian  teas  are  excellent  tonics  taken 
either  cold  or  hot. 

The  tea  made  fi-om  blackberry-root  is  said  to  be  good  for 
summer  disorders.  That  from  green  strawberry  leaves  is  an 
admirable  and  soothing  wash  for  a  cankered  mouth. 

Tea  of  parsley-root  scraped  and  steeped  in  boiling  water, 
taken  warm,  will  often  cure  strangury  and  kindred  affec- 
tions, as  will  tliat  made  from  dried  pumpkin-seed. 

Tansy  and  rue  teas  are  useful  in  cases  of  colic,  as  are 
fennel  seeds  steeped  in  brandy. 

A.  tea  of  damask-rose  leaves,  dry  or  fresh,  will  usually 
subdue  any  simple  case  of  summer  complaint  in  infants. 

Mint  tea,  made  from  the  green  leaves,  crushed  in  cold 
or  hot  water  and  sweetened,  is  palatable  and  healing  to  th« 
stomach  and  bowels. 

Mrai  Julep,  t^ 
Some  sprigs  of  green  mint,  sliglitly  bruised  in  a  tumhlei 
with  a  teaspoon.     Tut  in  a  generous  teaspoouful  of  whit« 


.dhyGoogle 


532  COMMON   SESSI!. 

sugar;  add  gi-adually,  stirring  and  ruTibing  lightly,  enougi 
ivator  to  till  tlie  glass  tki-ee-quartera  of  tlie  way  to  the  top. 
Fill  up  with  pounded  ice  ;  stir  hard ;  pour  into  a  largei 
glass  that  you  may  shake  up  weU,  and  put  in  two  table- 
^  spoonfuls  fine  brandy. 

This  is  called  a  "hail-storm  julep." 

Eau  SucEfi.  «{• 

Dissolve  three  or  four  lumps  of  loaf  sugar  in  a  glass  of 
ice-water,  and  take  a  teaspoonfu]  every  few  minutes  for  a 
"  tickling  in  the  throat,"  or  a  hacking  cough.  Keep  it  ice- 
cold. 

A  simple,  but  often  an  efficacious  remedy. 


THE    NURSERY. 

All  food  intended  for  infants  should  be  very  thoroughly 
cooked.  The  numerous  varieties  of  faiinaceoua  substances — 
biseotine,  farina,  rioe-ilour,  arrowroot,  etc.,  however  nourish- 
ing may  be  their  properties  when  rightJy  prepared,  are  harsh 
ajid  drastic  when  underdone.  Unless  you  have  a  nurse 
whom  you  know  for  yourself  to  be  iaithful  and  experienced, 
always  superintend  the  cooking  of  baby's  food.  It  can  do 
no  harm — it  may  prevent  much — if  you  examine  it  every 
day  to  see  that  it  is  right  as  to  quality  and  quantity.  Do 
not  aim  at  variety  in  this  branch  of  your  profession.  Con- 
fine a  child  under  three  years  of  age  to  a  very  limited  bill 
of  fare.  His  stomaeh  is  too  delicate  an  organ  to  be  tam- 
pered with.  Let  milk — scalded  or  boiled,  as  a  rule — be 
the  staple,  mixed  with  farina,  barley,  or  something  of  the 
BOrt.  Let  him  munch  Grabam  bread  and  light  crackera 
freely.     Remove  far  from  ?iiin  hot  bread  and  griddle-cakiis 


.dhyGoogle 


THE   NUKaEET.  523 

Wlien  he  has  cut  his  carnivoi'ons  te«th,  Nature  says— 
"  Tills  creature  wants  meat."  And  Nature's  supply  is  seldom 
iu  advance  of  the  domaad.  K  he  did  not  need  wJiafc  the 
teetJi  are  designed  to  chew,  you  may  be  sure  th.ey  would  not 
he  given  him.  Grant  him  the  novel  food  sparingly  and  witli 
discretion  as  to  kind.  Karo  beef  and  well-boiled  mutton, 
tender  roast  or  boiled  chicken  and  turkey  are  safe.  With- 
hold fried  meats  of  every  descri[ition.  Do  not  let  him  touch 
veal  or  pork  in  any  shape.  Mince  the  meat  very  finely  to 
save  his  digestive  apparatus  all  unnecessary  work.  Mealy 
old  potatoes — never  new  or  waxy — young  onions,  boiled  in 
two  waters;  fresh  asi>aragus,  green  peas,  and  dry  sweet  po- 
tatoes should  suffice  for  vegetables,  with,  of  course,  rice  and 
hominy.  For  dessert,  once  in  a  while,  a  simple  custard, 
a  tasto  of  home-made  ice-cream,  rice  and  fe,rina  pudding, 
Graham  hasty  pudding;  the  inner  part  of  a  well-roasted 
apple,  and,  in  their  season,  ripe  peaches  and  apples,  will  not 
harm  liim,  taken  in  moderation,  if  he  he  well  and  strong. 

I'areiltB  fruit  (JiWays.  The  skin  of  an  apple  is  as  bad  for 
him  as  a  bit  of  your  kid  gloves  would  be  ;  that  of  a  grape 
more  indigestible  than  sole-leather  Kaisins — "skins  and 
All" — are  unfit  for  anybody  to  eat.  Pulp  and  pits,  they 
are  poisonous  for  baby.  Ditto,  pickles,  pastry,  and  pre- 
serves. Ditto,  most  kinds  of  cake  an.d  all  sorts  of  fruit 
puddings. 

Give  him  light  suppers,  and  put  him  to  bed  early  in  a 
dark  room.  He  will  not  grow  better  in  a  glare  of  artificial 
light  than  will  your  camellias  and  azalias. 

Always  see  for  yourself  that  his  last  waking  thoughts  are 
pleasajit;  that  he  shuts  his  eyes  at  peace  ■with  the  world 
and  in  love  with  you ;  that  his  feet  are  warm,  his  stomack 
easy,  and  his  body  not  overloaded  with  bhmkets  and  quilts ; 
also,  that  the  nursci^  is  clean  and  freshly  aired.  These  aro 
■^ttcr   preacriptions   for   sound  slumber   than  all   the  old 


.dhyGoogle 


wiT^'  fables  of  tlie  excellent  properties  of  that  permcioa* 
drug — Soothing  Syrup. 

Fahuia.  4" 
1  cup  hoUing  water. 
1    "     fresh  milk. 

1  lai^e  tablespoonful  Keeker's  Fariiia,  wet  up  with  cold 

water. 

2  teaspoonfiils  white  sugar. 
A  piiich  of  salt. 

Stir  the  farina  into  the  boiling  water  {dightly  salted)  in 
the  farina  kettle  (t.  e.,  one  boiler  set  within  another,  the 
latter  filled  with  hot  water).  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring 
constantly  until  it  is  weil-thickened.  Then  add  the  niilk, 
stirring  it  in  gi-adiially,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer. 
Sweeten,  and  give  to  the  child  so  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough. 

You  may  make  enough  in  the  morning  to  last  all  day; 
warming  it  up  with  a  Kttle  hot  milk  as  you  want  it.  Keep 
in  a  cold  place.  Some  of  the  finest  children  I  have  evor 
seen  were  reared  upon  tliis  diet.  Do  not  get  it  too  sweet, 
and  cook  it  well.      Be  sure  the  farina  is  sweet  and  dry. 

Babley. 

It  sometimes  happens  that  "'ill^  disagrees  with  a  delicate 
infant  so  seriously  that  it  is  necessary  to  substitute  some 
other  article  of  diet  for  a  few  days,  I  have  known  barley- 
waier  to  be  used,  in  such,  oases,  with  great  success. 

2  cups  hailing  water. 

2  tables jioonfuls  pearl  barley— picked   over  and  washed. 
A  pinch  of  salt. 

3  teaspoonfula  white  sugar— -mo(  heaping. 

Soak  the  barley  half  an  hour  in  a  very  little  lukewarm 
water,  and  stir,  without  draining,  into   tlie  boiling  Witer, 


.dhyGoogle 


THE   NUHSEBY.  625 

wlced  very  slightly.     Simmer  one  hour,  Btirrmg  often,  am? 
etiain  before  swcetoiiing. 

Arroweoot.  "J" 
I  cup  of  boiling  water. 

1  "      fresh  milk, 

2  teaspoonfuls   best  Bermuda  arrowroot,  wet  with  cold 

1  email  jiiuch  of  salt 

2  even  teasponnfuls  white  su^ii,  ilii>'-ol\ed  m  the  milk. 
Stir  the  arrowroot  p  iste  into   the   Edited  boiling  water ; 

stir  and  boil  fi^ie  minates  or  until  it  ii  clear,  add  the 
sweetened  milk,  and  bnil  ten  minutes,  akwly,  still  stii'ring. 
If  the  child  has  fevei,  or  cannot  digest  milk,  Bubstitute 
hot  water  for  it.  It  ia,  however,  a  dangerous  experiment 
to  forbid  milk  altogether  for  an  infant.  I  should  rather 
diminish  the  quantity,  putting  in,  say,  one-third  or  one- 
fourth  as  much  as  the  rocoii>t  names,  and  tilling  up  with 
boiling  water. 

EiCB  Jelly.  •{■ 

i  cup  whole  rice,  well-washed  and  soaked  two  houra  in 
a  littlB  warm  water ;  then  added,  with  the  water,  to 
that  in  the  kettle. 

3  pinta  cold  water. 

1  small  pinch  of  salt,  put  into  the  water. 

Sweeten  to  taste  with  loaf  sugar. 

Simmer  the  rice  half  an  hour;  then  boil  until  it  is  a 
smooth  paste,  and  the  water  ia  reduced  one-half.  Strain 
Ihrougli  double  tarlatan,  sweeten,  and  give  to  the  child, 

'Phis  is  an  admii-able  preparation  for  an  infant  suffering 
with  weakness  of  the  bowels.  If  there  is  no  fever,  yon  may 
put  one-third  part  milk,  boiled  witli  the  rice.  Give  a  few 
ipoonfuls  every  hoiir  or  half  hour. 


.dhyGoogle 


t>26  COMMOn   SENSE. 

Milk  and  Bbe^vd,  >^ 
^  cup  boiled  milk. 

2  tablespooufuls  stale  Graham  bread. 
A  veiy  little  sugar. 
Crumble  the  bread  into  the  boiled  milk,  sweeten,  and 
when  cool  enough,  feed  to  the  child  with  a  spoon. 

WlIBATES   GlllTS.   ■$• 
4  tablespoonfuls  grits  (cra<!ked  wlieat)  soaked  in  a  little 
cold  water  one  hour,  and  then  put  into  the  kettle. 
1  quart  boiling  water. 
1  cup  milk. 
A  piuch  of  salt. 
Boil  the  soaked  grits  in  the  quart  of  water  one  horn, 
stirring   up  often;    add  the  milk  and   boil   half    an  hout 
longer.      Sweeten  to  taste,  and  if  the  child  la  well,  pour 
ltd  for  children  over  a  year 
,    esjiecially   if   the    milk    be 
regulating  the  bowels,    Wlien 


This 

oM.     It  is  slightly  catharti 
omitted,  and  is  most  useful 


thio  can  be  done  without  drugs,  it  is  ikr  better. 


HoMiHT  AND  Milk,  •!« 
J  cup  small  hominy. 
1  scant  quart  of  cold  water. 
Pinch  of  salt. 
Boil  one  hour,  stirring  often.     WhUe  liot,  mix  some 
Boffc  with  new  milk,  sweeten  to  taste  and  feed  to  baby  with 
a  spoon. 

This  is  also  relaxing  to  the  bowels,  aud  should  not  bi 
given  if  the  child  is  disposed  to  summer  complaint. 


.dhyGoogle 


GBAHAa  Hasty  Pudding.  >^ 

1  cup  Graham  flour,  wet  up  with  cold  water. 

1  lai^e  cup  hoiliag  water  and  same  quantity  of  milk, 

1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Stir  the  wet  flour  iute  tlie  boiling  water,  slightly  salted. 
Boil  tec  minutes,  stirring  almost  constantly.  Add  the 
Koilk  and  cook,  after  it  has  come  again  to  a  boil,  ten  min- 
utes longer.      Give  with  sugar  and  milk  for  breakfast. 

Eaten  with  cream,  nutmeg,  and  powdered  sugar,  this  is 
a  good  plain  dessert  for  grown  people  as  well  as  children. 

EicB  Floub  Hasty  Puddino 
Is  made   as  ahove,   substituting  two  heaping  tablespoon 
fula  rice  flour  for  the  GraJiam. 

Milk  Pohridoe. 
1  tablespoonfwl  Indian  meal  1  wet  to  a  paste  with  cold 

1  "  white  flour  )       water. 

2  cups  boiling  water, 
2     "     milk. 

A  good  pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  the  paste  in  the  hot  water  twenty  minutes ;  add  the 
milk  and  cook  ten  minutes  more,  stirring  often. 
Eat  with  sugar  and  milk,  stirred  in  while  hot. 

Mush  and  Milk. 

1  cup  Indian  meal,  wet  up  witli  cold  water, 

2  quarts  cold  water. 
Salt  to  taste. 

Boil  two  hours ;  stirring  often  with  a  wooden  spoon  oa 

To  be  eaten  hot  with  milk  and  sugar. 


.dhyGoogle 


OOMMOH   8EN9E. 


COITDENSED  MiLK. 


Tills  is  perhaps  Uie  safest  substitute  for  tke  "good  milk 
from,  onn  cow,"  which,  few  mothers  in  town  can  procure. 
Kecip  the  can  in  a  cool  place  and  mi^  according  to  direc 


SUNDRIES. 
Cleaning  Pots,  Kettles,  akd  Tins. 

Boil  a  doable  handful  of  hay  or  grass  in  a  new  iron  pot, 
before  attempting  to  cook  with  it;  scrub  out  with  soap  ani 
sand ;  then  set  on  full  of  fair  water,  and  let  it  boil  half  an 
hour.  After  tliis,  you  may  use  it  without  fear.  As  soon 
na  you  empty  a  pot  or  frying-pan  of  that  which  has  been 
cooked  in  it,  fiU  with  hot  or  cold  water  (hot  is  best)  and 
set  back  upon  the  firs  to  scald  thoroughly. 

New  tins  should  stand  near  the  fire  with  boiling  water 
in  them,  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a  sjioonful  of  soda, 
for  an  hour;  then  be  scoured  inside  with  soft  soap;  after- 
ward rinsed  with  hot  water.  Keep  them  clean  by  rubbiog 
with  sifted  iwood-ashes,  or  wliiteniug. 

Copper  utensils  should  ho  cleaned  with  brickdust  and 
9annel. 

Never  set  a  vessel  in  the  pot-c!oset  without  cleaning  and 
wiping  it  thoroughly.  If  grease  be  left  in  it,  it  will  grow 
rancid.     If  set  aside  wet,  it  is  apt  to  rust. 

Kkives, 

Clean  with  a  soft  flannel  and  Bath  brick.  If  rusty,  use 
wood-ashes,  rubbed  on  with  a,  newly  cuf  bit  of  Irish  potato, 
rhis  will  remove  spots  when  nothing  else  will.      Keep  your 


.dhyGoogle 


best  set  wrapped  in  so/j:  wMt-e  paper;  then  in  linen,  ii 
drawer  out  of  damp  and  dust. 

Never  dip  the  ivory  handles  of  knives  in  hot  water. 


Wash,  after  each  meal,  all  that  is  soiled,  in  verj/  hot  aofl 
water,  with,  hard  soap.  Wipe  Jiard  smd  quickly  on  a  clean 
towel;  then  polish  with  dry  flannel.  If  discolored  with 
e^,  mustard,  spinach,  or  heans,  or  by  any  other  means, 
rub  out  the  staia  with  a  stiff  toothbrush  (used  only  for  thia 
purpose),  and  silver  soap. 

For  years  I  have  used  no  other  preparation  for  cleaning 
silver  than  the  Indexical  silver  soap,  applied  as  I  have 
described.  After  rubbing  with  a  stiff  lather  made  with 
thia,  wash  off  with  hot  water,  wipe  and  polish  while  hot. 
There  is  no  need  for  the  weekly  silver  cleaning  to  he  an 
event  or  a  bughear,  if  a  little  care  and  watchfulness  be 
observed  after  each  meal.  Silver  should  never  be  allowed 
to  grow  dingy.  If  Bridget  or  Chloe  will  not  attend  prop- 
erly to  this  matter,  take  it  in  hand  yourself,  Have  your 
own  soap-cups — two  of  them — one  with  common  soaj),  the 
other  \rith  a  cake  of  silver  soap  in  the  bottom.  Have  for 
one  a  mop,  for  the  other  a  stiff  bnish — a  toothbrush  is  best. 
Use  your  softest  towels  for  silver. 

Besides  being  clean  and  easy  of  application,  the  silver 
soap  will  not  wear  away  the  metal  as  will  whiting  or  chalk, 
or  plate-powder,  however  finely  pulvoriaed. 

China  and  Glass. 
There  are  few  of  the  minor  crooks  m  the  lot  of  the 
earefiil  hout,ewife  that  cause  her  more  anxiety  and  more 
discouragement  than  the  attempt  to  t«ach  domestics  how  tc 
wa&h  up  dibhts 


.dhyGoogle 


530  couuoN  eENBB. 

"I'ts  hoard  that  Mrs. is  very  exact  about  atima 

thrrgs,  such  as  washing  up  dishes  and  the  likes  of  that  1 '' 
said  a  woman  to  me,  with  an  affected  laugh,  having  calleJ 
to  apply  for  the  then  vacant  position  of  cook  in  my  kitchen. 
She  had  high  recommendations,  a  whine  engrafted  upon 
Qer  native  brogue,  and  spoke  of  me  in  the  third  person — a 
trick  of  cheap  (and  bogua)  gentility  that  tries  my  nerves 
and  temper  to   the  very   marrow   of  my   ajriae.     "I  was 

a-saying  to  myself,  as  I  came  along,  that  Mrs. miiat 

have  been  very  onlucky  in  her  girls  if  she  had  to  'ache 
them  how  to  wash  up  dishes.  I  always  thought  that  was 
one  of  the  things  that  came  Mnder  natural  to  every  cook." 

"  Mrs. 's"  experience  goes  to  prove  th  it  the  wrong 

way  of  doing  this  must  "come  natural"  to  tha  class  men- 
tioned, and  that  Nature  is  mighty  in  wom^n  Tho  fact 
that  the  right  way  is  noi  to  pile  unrinsed  dishes  and 
plates  in  a  big  pan  with  a  loose  hit  of  soip  on  top,  and 
puur  lukewarm  water  over  all :  then  with  a.  hit  of  rig  to 
splash  said  water  over  each  separately,  and  make  an>ther 
pile  of  them  upon  the  kitchen-table,  until  the  last  is  drawn, 
reeking  with  liquid  grease,  sticky  and  streaming,  from  tha 
now  filthy  puddle  of  diluted  swOl ;  then  to  rub  them  lightly 
and  leisurely  with  one  towel— bo  they  miiny  or  few— is  as 
difficult  of  comprehension  to  the  scuUionly  mind  as  would 
be  a  familiar  lecture  upon  the^ojis  asinorvm. 

Yet  the  right  and  only  neat  method  is  so  simple  and 
easy !  Rinse  the  greasy  plates,  and  whatever  is  sticky  with 
sugar  or  other  sweet,  in  hot  water  and  transfer  to  a  larger 
pan  of  very  hot.  Wash  glass  first ;  next  silver ;  then  china 
—one  article  at  a  time,  although  you  may  put  several  in 
the  pan.  Have  a  mop  with  a  handle ;  rub  upon  the  soap 
(over  which  the  water  should  have  been  poured)  until  you 
have  strong  suds ;  wash  bo'Ji  sides  of  plate  and  saucer,  and 
wipe  before  putting  it  out  of  your  hand.     Draining  leavoi 


i,y  Google 


S1TNDBTBS.  531 

Btifalca  which  can  be  felt  by  SBDsitiye  fimger-tipa,  if  r.ol 
eeen.  If  china  is  rough  to  the  touch,  it  ia  dirty.  Hot, 
clean  suds,  a  dry,  clean  towel,  aud  quick  wiping  leave  it 
bright  and  shining.  Roll  your  glasses  around  in  the  water, 
filling  them  as  BO'in  as  they  touch  it,  and  you  need  never 
crack  one.  A  lady  did  once  explain  the  dinginess  of  her 
goblets  to  me  by  saying  tkat  she  was  "afraid  to  put  them 
in  Lot  water.  It  rots  glass  and  makes  it  so  tender !  I 
prefer  to  have  them  a  little  cloudy."  This  ia  literally  true 
— that  she  said  it,  I  mean.  Certainly  not  that  a  year's  soak 
in  hot  water  could  make  glass  tender. 

Wash  IMG  'WraBOwa. 
Dissolve  a  little  wasliing-soda  in  the  water  if  the  glass 
is  very  dim  with  smoke  or  dirt.  Do  not  let  it  run  on  the 
Bash,  but  wash  each  pane  with  old  flannel ;  dry  quickly 
with  a  soft,  clean  towel,  wiping  the  corners  with,  especial 
care.  Polish  with  chamois  skin,  or  newspapers  rubbed  soft 
between  the  hands. 

To  Clean  Carpets. 
Sprinkle  the  carpet  with  tea  leaves;  sweep  well;  then 
use  soap  and  soft,  warm  water  for  the  grease  and  dirt  spots. 
This  freshena  uj)  old  carpets  marvellously.     Rub  the  wel 
spots  dry  with  a  clean  cloth. 

To  Clean  Paint. 
Scour  with  a  flat  brush,  less  harsh  than  that  used  for 
floors,  using  warm  soft  suds ;  before  it  dries  wash  otf  with 
old  flannel  dijiped  in  clean  cold  water,  and  wipe  dry  with  a 
linea  towel  or  cloth.  Go  through  the  whole  process  quickly, 
that  the  water  may  not  dry  upon  and  streak  the  paint. 


H.M-,i>,.Gooc^lc 


COMMON   SENSE. 


To  Keep  Woolens. 


Beat  out  all  the  dust,  and  aun  for  a  day;  shilke  very 
liai'd ;  fol  1  neatly  and  piu — or,  wliat  is  better,  sewup — closely 
ill  tuusliu  or  linen  cloths,  putting  a  sniall  lump  of  gum 
camphor  in  the  centre  of  each  buiidls.  Wrap  newapaj)era 
abous  all,  pinning  so  as  to  exclude  Just  and  insects. 

Tiiese  are  really  all  the  precautions  necessary  for  tha 
safety  even  of  furs,  if  they  are  strictly  obeyed.  But  you 
may  set  moths  at  defiance  if  you  can,  m  addition  to  these, 
secure,  as  a  packiug-case,  a  whiskey  or  alcohol  barrel  but 
liitely  emptied,  and  still  strongly  scented  by  the  liquor. 
Have  a  close  head,  and  fit  it  in  neatly.  Set  away  in  the 
garret,  and  think  no  more  of  your  treasures  until  next 
winter. 

To  Wash  Doubtful  Calicoes. 

Put  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  of  lead  into  a  pailful  of 
water,  and  soak  fifteen  miuutos  before  washing. 

To  Cleas  a  Cloto  Coat. 
Eub  soap  upon  the  wristbands  and  collar ;  dip  them  in 
boiling-hot  suds — and  scrub  with  a  stiff  clean  brush. 
Treat  the  grease  and  dirt  spots  in  the  same  way.  Change 
the  suds  for  clean  and  hot  as  it  gets  dirty.  Wet  and  brush 
the  whole  coat,  the  right  way  of  the  cloth,  with  frosh  suds, 
when  you  have  scoured  out  the  spots,  adtling  three  or  four 
tablespoonfula  of  alcohol  to  the  water.  Stretch  the  sleeves, 
pocket-holes,  wristbands,  and  collar  into  shape,  folding  the 
sleeves  as  if  they  had  been  ironed,  also  the  collar.  Lay 
upon  a  clean  cloth,  spread  upon  the  table  or  floor,  and  let 
it  get  perfectly  dry  in  the  shade,  turning  over  three  or  foul 
tiiueB  without  disturbing  the  folds. 


;dhyGoogle 


To  Clkas  Silk. 
To  Remove  Grease  Spots. — Scrape  "Venetian  or  Freoch 
clialk  fine;  moisten  to  a,  stiff  paste  with  soap-suds;  make  it 
into  flat  cakes  by  pressing  between  two  boards,  and  dry  in 
the  sun  or  oven.  Keep  these  for  use.  When  you  need 
them,  scrape  one  to  powder  and  cover  the  spot  with  it,  lay- 
ing the  silk  upon  a  fine  clean  linen  or  cotton  cloth.  Lay 
two  or  three  folds  of  tissue-paper  upon  the  chalt,  and 
press  it  with  a  hot  ii-on  for  a  minute  or  more,  taking  care 
it  does  not  touch  the  silk,  Eaise  the  paper  and  scrape  off 
the  grease  with  the  chalk.  Split  a  visiting-card,  and  rub 
the  place  where  the  spot  was,  witli  the  inside,  to  restore  the 
lustre.     The  silk  should  be  pi-essed  oa  the  wrong  side. 

If  the  spot  be  discovered  at  once,  simply  mb  the  wrong 
Bide  hard  with  powdered  French  chalk,  and  leave  it  to  wear 
off. 

To  Whsfi,  Silk— llhi  together 
2  cups  cold  water. 
1  tablespoonful  honey. 
1  "  soft  soap. 

1  wineglass  alcohol. 

Shake  up  well ;  lay  the  sUk,  a  breadth  at  a  time,  on  a 
table,  and  sponge  both  sides  with  this,  ruhhing  it  well  m ; 
shake  it  about  well  and  up  and  down  in  a  tub  of  cold  water; 
flap  it  as  dry  as  you  can,  but  do  not  wring  it.  Hang  it  by 
the  edges,  not  the  middle,  until  fit  to  iron.  Iron  on  the 
wrong  side  while  it  is  very  damp. 

Black  and  dark  or  soher-coloi-ed  silks  may  be  sucoeaa- 
fully  treated  it  this  way. 

To  Smooth  Wrinkled  /S^i.— Sponge  on  the  right  side 
with  very  weak  gum-arabic  water,  and  iron  oa  the  wroug 


.dhyGoogle 


B84  COMMON   SENSE. 

To  Renew  Wkinkled  Cbapz, 
Slrtitch  over  a  basin,  of  boiling  water,  holding  it  amootJi, 
but  not  tight,  over  the  top,  and  shiftiiig  as  tlie  steam  faiilj 
penetrates  it.  Fold,  while  damp,  iii  the  origioiil  cieases, 
and  lay  under  a  heavy  hook  or  board  to  dry.  It  will  look 
almost  as  well  as  new. 

To  Restore  the  Pile  or  Velvet. 
If  but  slightly  pressed,  treat  as  you  would  crape.  Steam 
on  the  right  side  until  heated  through.  If  very  badly 
crushed,  wet  on  the  wrong  side;  lot  an  assistant  hold  a  hot 
iron,  bottom  upward,  and  pass  the  wet  side  of  the  velvet 
slowly  over  the  flat  surface — a  sort  of  upside-down  insning. 
When  the  steam  rises  thickly  through  to  the  right  side,  it 
will  raise  the  pile  with  it.     Dry  without  handling. 

To  CuiiL  Tumbled  Fbatheus. 
Hold  over  the  heated  top  of  the  range  or  stove,  not  near 
enough  to  bum ;  withdraw,  shake  them  out,  and  hold  them 
over  it  again  until  curled. 

To  C1.EAN  Straw  Mattisg. 
Wash  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  clean  salt  and  water ;  then 
wipe  dry  at  once.     This  prevents  it  from  turning  yellow. 

To  Wash  I.awn  oe  Thin  Muslin. 
Boil  two  quarts  of  wheat-bran  in  six  quarts,  or  more,  of 
water,  half  an  hour.  Strain  through  a  coarse  towel  and 
mix  in  the  water  in  which  the  muslin  is  to  be  washed.  Use 
no  soap,  if  you  can  help  it,  aud  no  starch.  Rinse  lightly  in 
fair  water.  This  preparation  both  cleanses  and  stiflens  tha 
lawn.  If  you  can  conveniently,  take  out  all  the  gatbora 
The  skirt  should  always  be  ripped  fi-om  the  waist 


.dhyGoogle 


To  Wash  Woolens, 

Wash  in  clean,  hot  soap  suds ;  riaso  out  in  dear,  Lot 
w&ter,  and  shake  out  the  wet  without  passing  through  the 
wringer.  Woi-sted  dress-gooda  should  uevor  he  wrung  when 
washed. 

To  "Wash  White  La(je  Edging. 

Have  a  quart  bottle  covered  witli  linen,  stitched 
smoothly  to  fit  the  shape.  Begin  at  the  bottom  and  wind 
the  lace  about  it,  basting  fast  at  both  edges,  even  the 
minutest  point,  to  the  linen.  Wasli  on  tlio  bottle,  soaping 
it  well,  rinse  by  plunging  in  a  ])ail  of  fair  water,  and  boil  as 
you  would  a  white  handkerchief,  bottle  and  all.  Set  in  the 
hot  sun  to  dry.  When  quite  dry,  clip  tlie  ba.sting-thi-eads, 
and  use  the  lace  without  ironing.  If  neatly  hasted  on,  it 
will  look  nearly  as  well  as  new — if  not  quite. 

Black  Lace. 
^  cup  rain  water,  or  very  soft  spring  water. 
1  teaspoonful  borax. 
1  tablespoonfiil  spirits  of  wine. 
Squeeze  tlie  tumbled  rusty  lace  through  this  four  times, 
then  rinse  in  a  cuj)  of  hot  water  in  which  a  black  kid  glove 
Las  been  boiled.     Pull  out  the  edges  of  the  lace  until  almost 
diy  ;  t)  len  press  for  two  days  between  the  leaves  of  a  heavy 

To  Sponge  Black  Wossted  Dresse^. 

Sponge  on  the  right  side  with  a  strong  tea  made  of  fiQ- 
leaveSf  and  iron  on  the  wrong. 

This  process  restores  lustre  and  crispnesa  to  alpaca, 
bombazine,  etc. 


.dhyGoogle      _ 


To  Clean  Very  Dirty  Black  Dresses. 
2  pai-ta  soft  water  to  I  part  alcohol,  or  if  there  be  paini 
Bpots  upon  the  stuff,  spirits  turpentine.  Soap  a  spongf 
well,  dip  in  the  mixture,  aatl  rub,  a  breadth  at  a  time,  oii 
both  sides,  stretching  it  upon  a  table.  Iron  on  the  wrong 
side,  or  that  which  is  to  bo  inside  when  the  stuff  is  made  up. 
Sponge  off  with  fair  water,  hot  but  not  scalding,  before  yua 
iron.     Iron  while  damp. 

To  Remove  Stains  from  Mabble. 
Make  a  mortar  of  unslacked  lime  and  very  strong  lyo. 
Cover  the  spot  thickly  irith  it  and  leave  it  on  for  six  weeks. 
Wash  it  off  perfectly  clean,  and  rub  hard  with  a  bru.sh  dip- 
pod  in  a  lather  of  soap  and  water.  Polish  with  a  smooth, 
hard  brush. 

Iron  Mould 
Is  as  nearly  ineradicable  as  it  is  possible  for  stain  to  be. 
Try  moistening  the  part  injured  with  ink,  and  while  this 
ia  wet,  rub  in  muriatic  acid  diluted  with  five  times  its 
weight  of  water.  I  have  heard  that  the  old  and  new  stain 
s  be  removed  together  by  this  operation. 


Mildew 
Is  likewise  obstinate.  If  anything  will  extract  it,  it  ia 
lemon-juice  mixed  with  an  equal  weight  of  salt,  powdered 
starch,  and  soft  soap.  Rub  od  thickly  and  lay  upon  the 
grass  in  the  hot  sim ;  renewing  the  application  two  or  three 
times  a  day  until  the  spot  fades  or  comes  out. 

I  have  also  used  salt  wet  with  tomato-juice,  often  re- 
newed, laying  the  article  stained  upon  the  grass.  Some 
times  the  stain  was  taken  ont,  sometimes  not. 


.dhyGoogle 


INDEX. 


FiMTLIAJl    TALK. 

sours. 

VegeUihle  Soups 

Asi orapiB  soup  (wJdte) .... 
"             "     (i/reen)  ... 

Bean              "     {diied) 

Bean  and  com  soup 

13 

37 

30 
31 
30 
30 

•a 

S3 
28 
38 

29 
23 
33 
31 
31 
33 

S5 

35 

87 
41 
42 
40 
44 
30 
38 
44 

Veal  ajid  sago            "      .... 
Vermicelli                  "      ... 

FishSovps 

Catfisll         Boup 

36 
44 
38 
43 

4.5 

47 

Graiiam                "    

Green  Pea            "   (No.  1). 
"    {No.  2). 

Gumbo,  orokra  "    

Pea  and  tomato  "    

Pea  {split  and  ^ied)  eoup. 
Potato                              "    . 

OyBter             "   {No.  1)  .... 
"   {No.  2).... 

FISH 

45 
46 

"       {ivmmer)         "   . 
Tumip 

"         fried  

Catfish,  Btewed 

63 
fi7 

Meat    Soups. 

Beef  soup  d  la  JvUemte 

"        chowder 

Chowder,  clam 

(2fo.l) 

"         {No.  2) 

(J 
68 

Brown  gra^y  soup 

Chicken             "     

Codfish  b^ls 

"      (/7-esA),  boiled 

"       (saii),  boiled 

"      and  potato  Rtew  .   .. 
"      {ifUt),    Btewed    with 

51 

GJblet                "       

Oxtail  floup 

Eels,  fried 

fiS 

.dhyGoogle 


Eels,  stewed    

FinJi,  inayotmaiae  of 

Hnlibul,,  baked 

"        boiled 

"       devilled 

"        Etcak 

Mackerel  ifreah),  boilsd 

"        {sali),  bcoiled 

"         (frmh),  "       

Perch  and  other  paa-Esi, . . . 
Pickerel,  fried 

"        bated  witli  cceam. 

Eockfisli  and  river  baaa 

Salmon,  baked 

"        boiled 

"        {fresh),  p-j^ed  . . . 

"         (*ti(),  " 

"       (fimt^ced),  broiled,. 

Salmon-trout,  baked  with 
Salmon-trout,  boiled 

Shad,  bated 

"      (fresh),  boiled 

"      Mi),         "     

"      (fresh),  broiled 

"      (salt),  "      

"     Med 

Sturgeon,  baked 

Shdl-fish 

Clam  chowder 

"    fritters 

"    scallop 

Crab,  devilled 


Craba,  soft 
Lobster,  to  boil 

"       croquettes 

"       devilled 

"       salad    {ki,e  Saladx  )  2 
OjEteiB,  cream  on  half  shell 

"       broiled 
fned 

"       fritters 


"       pickled 

' '       scilloped 

"       Bteamed 

"      eteweii 
Scallops 
Terrapin  or  turtle 

POUITET 

Chicken,  boiled 

(Inwmi),, 
"       (mliite)  . . 

fried  {JVb.  1) 

"     (Jft'.S) 

and  ham 

Chicken-pie  (baked) 

pot-pie 

pudding 

Ducks,  roast 

"      stewed 

Duck,  cold,  to  use  up 


.dhyGoogle 


Guinea-fowl,  roast 9o 

Pigeons,  brcaled 9'? 

PigeoD-pie 98 

Pigeons,  roast 01 

"        stewed 97 

Turkey,  boiled 85 

"       lagoatoi     87 

"       roast 84 

"       scallop  of 80 

MEATS 98 

B^f. 98 

Beef  d  la  mode    101 

"    brealifast  stew  of 103 

"    (uuTfteii),  boiled 107 

"    hashed        104 

"    heart,  stewed 100 

"     {fined)        107 

Beefsteak W 

andomons lOi 

"          pie 104 

Beef,  roast 98 

"    tongue,  boiled 107 

"    to  com lOG 

"    roast,   with  Yorkshire 

pudding  , ,,.,.,-.  09 

Beef -pie,  potato-orust 105 

Mtitton  and  Lamb 108 

Mutton  d  li  Teniaon 108 

"      boiled 109 

"      orlimbehop 110 

"  "  cutlet8,baked  111 

Motton-bam Ill 

"  orlamb  f^cftou/^...  113 
"     toast 108 

Muttott-sbew 110 


Ve<d 

Calf's  head  in  a  mould 

"         scalloped 

"         stewed 

Calf  a  brains,  croquettes  of. . 

"     liTer,  fried 

"         "    roast 

"         "    stewed 

Imitation  pSU  defok  graa. , 
Sweetbreads,  broiled 


Veal,  breast  of  (roast) 

cntlets  d  la  Maantenon . 

cutleta  (jAain) 

eUet  of  (roast) 

jellied 

loiuof  (roaat),.     

maibled 

minced 

olives  with  oysters. . . . 


Veal,  kuackleof  (stewed),.  117 


Pork.. 


.  133 


Brawn  (jVo.  1) 144 

"      (Ifo.  2) 144 

Chine,  roast 131 

Chops 1S4 

Ham,  to  cure 147 

"    baked 149 

"    barbecued 150 


.dhyGoogle 


Ham,  boiled. 1 

"    broiled 1 

"     glazed 1 

"    fried 1 

"    roaat 1 

"    eandwielies 1 

"  and  ctiuken  sandwioh- 

"    and  oMeken  pie 1 

"    and  e^3 t 

"    steamed 1 

Lard 1 

Iieg  of  pork,  roast 1: 

Pig's  head,  roast 1: 

Pig's     ''       with    lirer   and 

heart 11 

Pig,  roaat  («i/«ifc} I; 

Pork-Bteak l: 

"    Btewed I; 

Pot-pie  of  pork 1; 

"           Cheshire l; 

Pork,  to  piokla  {No.  1) !■ 

"            "         (iVo.  2) 1: 

"     and  beans 11 

Pudding,  pork  and  pease 11 

Spare-rib,  roast II 

Sauaage,  Bologna  (cooked). ,  1^ 

"            "         (uncooked)  1' 

(,{Nb.  1) i; 

(JVo.  3) 1' 

"       {]fo.  3) 1- 

Saveloya I' 

Souse,  or  head-cheese II 

Souse  of  p^'s  feet  and  eais  11 

COMPAXY 11 

flAHB ...    II 


V&iiia/nt. 160 

Cutlets  of  venison 164 

Fawn,  roast 105 

Ham  — veniaon 1G7 

Hash  "      104 

Haunch      "      161 

Neck  "      163 

Pasty         "      165 

Sausage      "      1G8 

Shoulder,   "      of,  roaat 162 

"  '■'      of,  stewed...  103 

Steak  ■'       163 

BabbiU  or  Hares 168 

Earheoued  rabbit I'/l 

Fried  "       IVl 

Fricassee  of  rabbit  (brown).,  170 
"       (white)...  170 

Larded  rabbit 171 

Pie  of  rabbit ITS 

Eabbitroaat 169 

Btewed  witii  onioni  „  169 

Squirrds 173 

Broiled  squirrel 174 

awick  Btew , 173 

Ragout  of  squirrel 173 

riieoianU,  partridges^  quails, 
grouse,  etc. 174 

Grouse,  broiled 175 

roast 174 

"    withbaoon. ...  17a 

Is,  broiled 175 

roast 174 

"    with  ham ITC 


H..k.d.yGoogle 


Qoaa-i 


PheaEant  and  partridge,  roast  17^ 

Pieofgame 170 

Sabni  of  giLme . . . 

Wild  ducks 178 

■'       "    roast. 178 

.  179 


.  177ljIuslirooms* 


.  lao 


Wild  pigeon  pie . . 
Wild  tnrkey 


.  178 


Game,  to  ket)p  from  tainfjig  1 
Ortolans,  reed-birda,  rail,  and 


Salmi  of  woodcock  or  sniite.   Ifi2 

Snipe,  roast 180 

Woodcock,  roast 181 


O^cr  "      186 

Peach  "      Ifll 

Bance  for  boiled  or  baksd  fish  185 

"     lobster 181 

Wiite  celery  si 


ieforfii 


.  185 


CATSUPS     AND    PLAVOEED 


A  good  store  aaace 

Celery  vinegar 

Elderberry  catsup 

" Evtrr-ready "  calanp.. 
Horse-radish  "      . . 


Wor 


Lemon  catanp  , . . 

Made  mnstard 

Mock  capers , 

Jluptroom  catisup 
Onion  vinegar. . . 
Oyster  catsup. , . , 
Pepper  vinegar. . 
Tomato  catsup. .. 
Walnut      "      . . . 


Anchovy  Rauce  , .  _ 

Apple  "      

ABpaiagTis  "      

Butter,  to  brown 

Cauliflower  eauce 

^'^^^'^'^■^ 180  g^ 

Cranberry  sauce 103 

Drawn  bitter  (JVo.  1) 183  Cabbage  salad,  o 

"  "      {A'o.  3).  184  Celeiy        "      . 

"  "      (iVb.  3) 184  Chicken      "      . 

EcEsauce 184  Lettuce      "      , 

Flour,  to  brown 1S3  j  Lobster      " 

MaJtre  d'hStel  sauce 189  Mock  crab 


cold  Blow.  206 


.dhyGoogle 


Bylney  Smith's  Balad  dresa- 

mg 2 

Sumioer  saJad 2 

Tomato      "     2 

Wateccresses 2 

VEGETABLES 2 

ArtJctokes S 

Aeparagus,  boiled 2 

"  in  ambush S 

"  ande^B 2 

Beans,  iDutter,  or  Lima 3 

"      {di-ie/l) 2 

"      French,      strii^     ot 

"      kidney,      and     otlier 

small 3 

Beets,  boiled 2 

' '      stewed 2 

Broccoli  and  Brussels  sprouts  S 

Cabbage,  boiled 2 

"        Wed 2 

"        ladies' 3 

Cabbage  and  bacon 3 

"       sprouts,     or    "ool- 

lards" 2: 

"       stuffed 2 

OwTots,  boiled 2; 

"       mashed 21 

"       Etewed 3; 

Cauliflower,  boQed 2: 

"  'scalloped 3! 

"  stewed 21 

Celery 3 

C^irn  ii/re^),  boiled 31 

"        "        fritters,  or 

cakes 21 

"         "        pudding S 


312 


Corn  {green)  roast  ! 

"        stewed  I 

"        and  tomatoes  ! 
"        and  beans  (sue 

cotash)  ) 

Cutnmbers,  fried  I 

■  Cymblmgs  fsunnuer  squish)  1 

E^  plant,  fried  2^ 

htuffed  337 

uny  croquettes.  3i9 

'        boUed  348 

■       bakea  249 

'        fried  348 

Macaroni  a  to  orme  253 

"         b  iked  351 

"         stewed,      Italian 

style  351 

Mnshrooms.  244 

"  b^ked  246 

"  broiled  240 

"  stewed  245 

I  Okri  247 

I  Omons,  baked  239 

htewed  S28 

8toff(.d  229 

I  Paismpa,  boiled  340 

'       buttered  Ml 

'        fried  240 

'        fritters  ^41 

'        mafhed  241 

Peas  (ffreea),  fritters  or  cakes  33G 

green 3^0 

■  Poke-stalis 244 

Potatoes,  baked 313 

'        boiledwith.Ekiiiaon  210 

'        boiled  without  "  310 

'       (»eui),  boiled 812 


.dhyGoogle 


Potatoes,  browned  (w^ofe)   ..  ' 

"  "        (masked).  '. 

"        broiled i 

•'        dla  crime ! 

Petri  w-cakes. i 

"    croquettes ' 

"        mashed. ' 

"        maltre  d'hotel. ...  ' 
Potato-ptifE S 

"    ribbon > 

"     scallop S 

Potatoes  (stewed  for  break- 
fast}  ! 

Potatoes  {dd),  stewed ! 

"  Btuffed ! 

"         {siceei),  bofled ! 

"  "       fried, ! 

Pvimpkia,  baked 1 

"        stewed i 

Radistea 1 

Jiice,  boiled 1 

"    croquettes. '. 

Salsify    (or      oyster-plant), 

fried i 

Salsify      (or     oyster-plaat), 

stewed ' 

Sea-kale,  boiled ! 

"  stewed 1 

Sqnash  (summer) 1 

"      (winter) I 

Sauei'kraiit ! 

Spiniich  d  la  ereme : 

"      boiled 

Succotash —  .......... < 

,   baked 

broiled 


Tomatoes,  scalloped Z 

'         and  com  scallop.,  8i 

■'  stewed 2! 

'         stuffed  and  bnlced.  2: 

Turnips,  boiled  (whole) 2i 

'        mashed 31 

EGGS 2f 

i  OM  M  (in  bed) a 

baked 2! 

■baskets. Si 

%gs,  boiled 31 

breaded. 21 

Chinese  bird's  neet  at.  21 

de-v-illed SI 

dropped  or  poaelied. ,.  21 

fried 2'- 

fricasseed 2i 

with  ham SI 

poached  d  la  m'hae. ...  91 
"      with  sanoe. ..  2. 

scalloped Si 

scrambled 2i 

upontoost Si 

Eg^-baUs  for  soup 2i 

Omeliitte,  asparagTis & 

"        auxfiimJwfhm...  2 

"        cauliflower. 2 

"       cheese Si 

"        plain 3 

"        with  ham,  ohioien, 

or  toc^B i 

Bwett  omdelUi. ...     ....  2 

Omelette,  apple 9 

"        jelly 2 

"        Boufflee,  baied...  3 

"  "       fried,..  R 


.dhyGoogle 


309 


Mir.K,  BUTTER,  CHEESE, 
Era , 

Boimy  clabber,  or"loppered 

Butter  (to  make) 

Cheese 

Cott^«  cheese 

Cream        "      

Junket,  or  mountain  onatard 

Eeunet 

TMckeued  milk 

BREAD 560 

Bread,  Boston  brown 280 

"       (family),  trown 27!l 

"  "      white 2T7 

Butter-milk  bread 283 

Bread,  milk S83 

"       rye 281 

Biscuit,  Graham S87 

"        miante 287 

"        Mra.  E.'s(«0!to)..,.  SSO 

"        risen 384 

''        potato 386 

Crackers,  butter 200 

Crumpets  (jjto'ra) 201 

"        (swet) 391 

Muffins,  Belle's 294 

"       buttermilk, 293 

*         Charlotte 293 

'         cream 292 

'         Graham 2'Jl 

"        hominy 294 

"       queen ii93 

"        "  Mother's" 293 


Powders,  baking 

Rolls,  French  (Hb.  1) 

"  "       (iVo.S) 

Rusk(diied) 

"    (sweet) .,  , 

Sally  Lunn  (iPb.  1) ; 

"         "    (JVo.  2) ; 

Spon^  for  bread  (potato) . .  ! 
"         "         "     (plain)...  : 

Wafeis ; 

Wheatlets,  Graham 1 

Yeast  cakes  ; 

"     (top)     ! 

"     (potato) 1 

"     (self-working) i 

Com  hreoA ; 

Ash-cake ; 

Batter-bread,  or  egg-bread.,  i 

Com-bread,  nonpareil i 

riacn{JV-o.  1)...  i 

"    (jVo.  2)...  Si 

steamed £ 

Cmmpets,  Indiaa-meal J 

Johnny-cake S 

Aunt  Jenny's  ...  5 

Muffins,  Indian-meal £ 

"   fried 3 

OtidMs-eakes,  leafflet,  etc.  8 

Cakes,  Auntie's  (Jcii/MMf^ffj)  S 

buckwheat, 3 

batter  (risen) 3 


.dhyGoogle 


80i 


307 


Cak«,  Gcoliam 

' '      Grandpa's  f ayorite. . , 
"      hoTainr 

Fiapiacka  corn-meal 

Waffles,  "Mother's" 

"      rice(ifo.  1) 

"  {Nb.Z) 

"  "  and  corn-meal 

Sfun'tcake,  etc 

Buna,  Easter  ("hot  cross"), 

"      Pl-ta 

Shortcake,  Grandma's 

'■  Scotch 

"  Btrawberry 

'  Sunnybank 

CAKE. 

almond  caie 

Black  cake 

Caramel  caie 

Chocolate  cake 

"        caramels 

"  fclairs 

Coooaaat  cake _. 

"    "  (Rosie's) 

"   cakos  (small) 

"   cake  (loaf) 

Cam-atarch  cake 

Bllie'»      "      


Frenchcake 320 

Froit        " 330 

Gold         " 331 

Hucklebeny  cake SS3 

Jelly  "   310 

Lady  "   (No.   !>,..  330 

"  "   (ifc.   3)...  331 

Lee  "    818 

Lemon  "   (iVo.   1)...  330 

"   (Wo.  3)...  3S0 

Marble              "   323 

Marbled            "   334 

Martha's           "    314 

Jlrs.  M.'scnp    "    315 

Mrs,  M,'a  sponge-cake 323 

Itlacaroons,  almond 833 

Is'ut-eake 331 

"One,  two,  tliree,  four"  cake 

(coooanut) 317 

Pound  cake  (JVo.l) 337 

"         "      tmS) 338 

SilTer     "      333 

Sister  Mag's  cake 32J 

Sponge            "     S3tt 

Washington     "     338 

White              "     834 

White  Mountain  cake. 319 

Idng 313 

Almond  icing' SJ  4 

Chocolate  ioing 3Sf) 

Phiiniomg 31S 

Small  Cakeg^  OeoJdes,  e^^ ,   334 

Boston  cream  cakes, ...     ,     848 
Cftkes,bread 346 


.dhyGoogle 


Cnies,  cnrraot  . . 
"  New  Year' 
' '       small  sugaj 

"       i.(fTOp\  sponge 340 

Cookies,  Mrs.  B.'s 

"        coriander 

"        molasses 

"         "Mover's" 335 

"        rice-floui 33G 

l-rullers,  Annie'a 342 

"        Aunt  Margaret's...  340 

"        Katie's 341 

"        "Mother's" 341 

Ponghnuts,  quick 342 

Gilmer  snaps  (Jfo.  1) 337 

"         "      (JTo.  3) 337 

"         "      (Jfo.  3) 337 

Jumbles,  almond 339 

"        Aunt  Margaret's. . .  S38 

''        Mrs.  M.'h 3S9 

"        rile 33B 

lady's  fingers 340 

Macaroons,  almond 333 

Nougat 849 

Wafers  (sw«t) 347 

Gingerbread 843 

Gingerbread  fruit 346 

"         loaf  (JVo.  1). . . .  344 

"  "  (J¥b.2)....  345 


soft  . 


.  345 


Apple  pie  (iPi).  1) 351 

"       "   (ilTo.  2) *-i8 

Blackberry  pie 308 

Cherry         " 3(17 

Coooannt     '•  (UTo.  1) 8M 

"(ifo.8). 304 

Crust  for  pies  (JVn.   1) 850 

"      "     "     (ifo.  3} 353 

"      "     "    transparent . .  35{; 

Custard  pie 3S7 

"        apple  pie. 358 

"        chocolate  pie 303 

"  com-staroh  pie.,.,  306 
"  cocoanut  ■"....  365 
"        peneh  "  . . ..  358 

Huckleberry  pie 308 

Lemon  pie  (JVo.  1) 361 

"    <JVb.  3) 361 

,"    {JVo.8) 36a 

cieam  pie 863 

Meringue    apple  -  pie     (and 

peach) 858 

ince-Dieat,  apple,  for  pies. .  356 

Mince  pie   (^f.  1) 354 

"     (jVo.  2) 3S4, 

Mook  mince-mcat 356 

Orange  pie 363 

Paste,  French  puB 353 

"      puff 353 

Peach  pie 387 

Kppin  " 35fl 

Potato"  Irish 860 

"  sweet  (JVi^  1)...   .  8G0 

"      "      (JVo.  3) 300 

.   " 368 

Pumpkin  pie  (JTo.  1) 859 

"  (JTo.  3) ;'53 


.dhyGoogle 


Easpberry  pie 

Eipe  gooseberry  pie 

Bliubarb  "  

SquJish  "  

rHiawbeiiy  "  ....... 

Tarn. 

Tart,  chocolate 

"      cream,  raspberry 

"      cranberry 

"       cnirant 

"  currant  and  raapber- 
ly 

"      damson 

"      green  gooseberry 

"'      lemon 

TartJets,  orar^ 

"        rhubarb 

SERViSTS 

PUDDINGS 

Baked  Puddings 

Alice's  pudding     ...   

Apple,  pudding,  baked 

"      dumplijigs    "    

"      batter  pudding 

"      raertngne  "      

"      and  plum  "      

"      Bweet         "      

"      and  tapiocapuddii^.. 

Arrowroot  pudding. 

Ratler  pudding  {No.  1) 

"        (JVo.  S) 

"     and  butter  pudding 

"     fnut  "      ... 


Bread  and  maimsJaiJe  foA- 

dii^ i 

' '  Brown  Betty  " ! 

Coooanat  padding ' 

Com-ataroh     "     i 

"         "     mfringue    pad- 
ding  i 

Cottage  pudding..., i 

Cracker       "       i 

"       DoTcbester  plum  irad- 
ding ; 

"  fruit  pudding. e 

Cup  puddings 4 

Dnmplings,  upplc  {baJixii) . ..  i 

"  BeUe'a 4 

German  puffs 4 

Gooseberry  pudding 4 

Lemon  "       4 

"      meringue  padding, ..  4 
Macaroni  "       . ,.  4 

Neapolitan  "       , ..  4 

Newark  "       ...4 

Orange  marmalade    "       , , .  4 
Pippin  "       ...  i 

Plum  "       ...4 

Queen  of  puddings ^ 

Rhubarb  padding 4 

Rice  "        {plain)...  S 

"      and  tapioca  padding , ,  E 

Rice-padding  with  eggs £ 

Rice-flour  puddii^ f 

Tapioca         "        £ 

Vermicelli      "      4 

Boiled  padiMngs 4 

Berry  pudding 4 

Cabinet     "       4 


.dhyGoogle 


Oheny,  or  cnrtant  pyramid. .  414 

Dumpling,  apple  (JVc  1). . , .  409 

"  "      {Ifo.2)....  409 

fruit  suet 411 

"         rice. 410 

Bvb'b  pudding 

"  valise  pudding. . . . 
Huckleberry  "  .... 
Indian  meal  pudding . . , 

Orange  rolcy-poley 414 

Qaeen  of  plum-puddings. 


Ilardtiance 

Lemon  " 

Milk     "     

White  wine  sauce  (Uijutd). . 


Blanc-mange,  almon.^ . , 


Fritters  (No.  1) 41G 

"        {Ko.  2) 416 

"       apple 41G 

"        bread 417 

"       jelly-cake 418 

"       JoUy. 417 

Pancakes 418 

"        jelly  or  jam. 410 

Queen's  toast 418 


.  419 

Jlee- hive  sauce 419 

Brandy        "      (terci)..' 430 

(iabinct  puddii^  sauce 4S3 

(Jreara  sauce  <7io().   .- 424 

Cream,  sweetened  (iwM),,,,  433 

Cuataid  sauce 433 

Fruit-pudding  sauoe 4S3 

Jelly  Hauoe  (i^o.  1) 423 

"      (Ifo.  3) 434 


.  431 

"  chocolate 434 

' '  farina 431 

"  Neapolitan  ...  433 

"  velvet 434 

Charlotte  EuBse,  chocolate . ,  436 
"  "      gelatine....  437 

"  "      cream 435 

"  "      tipsey 435 

Cream,  Bavarian 438 

Spanish 438 

Custard,  almond 423 

baked 439 


French  ta] 


.  435 


.  436 


Floating  Island 437 

Flummery. 437 

Gooseberry  too! 438 

Jauue  mange. 433 

Jelly,  calf' B-foot. . 


bkd'a 


variegated  . 
Meringue,  cream . , 
Whipped  syllaliub. 


.  441 
,  440 


.dhyGoogle 


iCE-CREAM  AND  OTHER 

ICES. 4 

Oastaxd,  frozen  witt  fruit . .  4 

1,  almond 4 

chocolate 447 

Italian 4'18 

lemon 

peaelu 

pine-apple 441 

Mspberry  or 

strawberry. ...  4i 

self -freezing  . , . ,  Af 

tutti  frutia 4! 

Ice,  cherry 4,' 

"    currant  and  cospberry 41 

"    lemon 4 

"    orange 4.: 

"    pine-apple 4; 

"    Biarawberry  or  rnspberiy.  453 

RIPE  FRUIT  FOB  DESSERT. 

Ambrosia 454 

Apples 

Blackberries 

Currants 

"       frosted.. 

Oranges 

Peaches  and  Pepja 

EuBpberries 

Salade  d' orange. 

Sbawbemes 


Apple  butter. . 
Apples 

"      stewed  whole. . 

Blackberry  jam 

Cherries,  preserved 

Crab  apple 

Damson,  preserved 

Figs, 


m gage, 


Orango  marmalade 

"      peel,  preserved.. 
Peach  marmalade 


"      stewed 4 

Pine-apple  marmalade A 

"        preserved. 4 

Quinces,  baked, 4 

Quinoe  cheese 4 

^*       marmalade,,.,.,.,,  4 

Quinces,  preserved 4 

Raspberry  jam 4 

Strawberry. 4 

Strawberries,  preserved 4 

ito,            "       (green).  4 

"        (r^),.  4 

Unique  preserves 4 

Water-meloa rind,  or  citron,.  4 

JVmi'^  Jeliies 4 

Blackberry  jelly 4 

Cherry   (wild)   and    currant 

Cralj-apple  jeDy i 


.dhyGoogle 


Currant  j^^J-  ■  4^0 

Foxgiapo(iFreen.)  "   .,  473 

Grape  (nye)  "   . ,  473 

Pen,-h  "   .,  473 


Raepberiy  and  currant  '' 
Strawberry  " 


.  470 


CAKNED  FRUITS  AND 

VEGETABLES....  473 

Berries  (tirandied) 478 

"  '  (canned) 474 

Com  and  tomatoes  (oanned).  477 

Gceeu  com  (preserved  in  salt)  477 

Peaches  (brandied) 478 

"       (canned) 475 

Pears  (biandied) 478 

"     (canned) 475 

Plums  (brandied) 478 

Tomatoes  "      476 

Candy. 

Molaases  candj 470 

Sugar  "     470 

PICKLES 4S0 

l^enna  (green),   and  radish- 
pods. . .   .  .      484 

Cabbage,  purple. 484 

"        yeUow 483 

Ciuliflower,  pickled 485 

Cherries,  "       400 

Cucumbora  or  gherkins,  pict- 

led 480 

Caeumbers,  sliced  pickle 480 

Hangoes.  melon       "      ....  483 


Mangoes,  pepper  pickJe 483 

Nasturtium  seed,      "     .,.,  485 

Onion,                         '•       ...  484 

Peache  (sweet),         "       ...  488 

"       (unpeeled)    '*       ...  490 

Pear  (sweet),              "       ...  489 

Picklette 491 

Plnms,  pickled. 488 

Tomato  (green),  pickle 488 

"       Boy 488 

"       ripe,,  pickle 488 

Walnut  or  butternut  plokle.  485 

Water-melon  rind  piukle, . . .  48S 

DRISES 401 

Blackberry  cordial 498 

"          vin^nr. 496 

Cafe  an  lait 493 

Claret  punch 501 

Cherry  bounce 501 

Chocolate 494 

Cocon.-nib3,  or  shells 404 

"      prepared 484 

Coffee  {b(Med) 492 

Coffee 401 

"      (without  boiling), . . .  492 

Cranberry  wine 497 

Currant,       "    407 

Egg-nogg 501 

Elderberry  wine 496 

Jamaica  ginger-beer 108 

Lemonade,- or  sherbet 498 

MUk  tea  for  children 494 

Kectar 500 

Orangeade 4D9 

Raisin  wine 408 

Raspberry  royal 493 

"         vinegar   491 


.dhyGoogle 


RegeorB  punch , A 

Romaji        "       6 

Sheny  cobbler 5 

Strawberry  sherbet 4 

wine 4 

Tea 4 

THE   SICK-EOOM...  6 
Blane-mauge,  arrowroot....  4 

"  tapioca. 5 

Beef-steakftad  mutton-chops  6 

Biaouit  or  wafers 5 

Brotii,  beef  and  sago 6 

"      calf-foot 5 

"      ciictea 6 

"      veal  and  sago. 5i 

Custard,  arrowroot 5 

Dried  rusk 5; 

Dried  flour  for  teething  chil- 

Eau  sucxa 5! 

Gruel,  Indian-meal 5 

"       milk  and  rice 5 

"       oatmeal 5' 

"       sago 5' 

Jelly,  arrowroot  (plain) 5! 

"  "         (jrffte) 5; 

"      chicken 51 

"      Icelajid,  or  Irish  moss  61 
"      tapioca B] 

Lemonade,  flaxseed 51 

"          Iceland,  or  Irish 
moss 51 

Mitt,  rice-flour 51 

"     aago 51 


Milt,   tapioca 

Mint  jnlep 

Panada 

"  bread,  or  jelly. . 
Punch,  egg  and  milk. . , 

"      mOk 

Rice,  boiled 

Sangarea,  or  parteree. . 

Tea,  beef 

Tesis,  herb 

Tea,  slippeij-elm  bark. , 

Toast,  dry 

milk 

Toddy,  apple 

Water,       "    

Jelly 


THE  ^^JESI 
Arrowroot 


Farina 

Hominy  and  milk. . 

Jolly,  rice 

Milk  and  bread, . . . 


porridge 

Mush  and  mUk 

Pudding,  Graham . . 

Wheatcn  grits 


SUNDRIES. 538 

Antidotes  for  poison 538 

Aflthma,  to  relieve 538 

Blood,  to  stop  the  flow  of . . .  6 


Bums,  to  01 


.  587 


.dhyGoogle 


Wean,  carpets  to 5 

kEiyes ,    5 

kettles,  pots,  and  tins  5 

eMna  and  glass 5 

cloti  coat,  a 5 

black  worsted  dress. .  S 
dirty  black  dress. ....  5 

paint B 

Bilk 5 


Crape,  wrinkled,  to  renew, ,  434 
Feathers,  tumbled,  to  curl..  534 


Soap,  soft & 

Stains,  acids  and  alkalies. . .  5 

"        iion-mould,     to    re- 
move   5: 

'         from  marble   to  re- 

"  mildew,  to  remove. .  5 
Velvet,  to  restore  tie  pile  of.  !i 
Waab,  doubtful  calicoes  to. ,  5 

"      lace,  black  to 6 

"  "    white  to 5 

' '        lawn,  or  thin  muslin  5 

"        wooEens 5 

Water,  colt^ne  {No.  1) 5 

"        (iff).  3) B 

Woollens,  to  keep  5 


.dhyGoogle 


