Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


I 


The  Arthur  and  Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER  LIBRARY 

on  the  History  of  Women 

in  America 

RADCLIFFE  INSTITUTE 


/ 


THE  6REAT  HISTORICAL  NOVELS 

BY 

HH.  ERCKHANN-CHATRIAN. 

TlfcMi«  nrritcrs  are  abaoliiteljr  uneqiialcd  In  tlhelr  «nm  pe. 
cttllar  Aeld.  Ttf  slaftple,  teltl&Aal  reallsot  of  tltelr  mtylm  omIjt 
brlaK*  ovC  l»to  stroMi^er  relief  tlte  »oble  purpose  'whlclfc  an- 
tmmtee  all  tj&e  frorke  of  -wMcb  **  Hadaaft  Tbereae  **  Is  oae. 
False  i^lorT*,  asllltarjr  aasbitlon,  aad  frar  aerer  perbape  bad 
eaeuftlee  niore  po'werf^U  appeariaf;  ta  so  modeet  a  Ibna. 

JTeMT  T&rh  IndepeHdenU 

^\f  .jBIorhfliiF* 

An  Episode  of  the  FsJl  of  tHe  First  French  Empire. 

I^OM  THB  Fbench  OF  HM.  Ebcxmahh-^Jhatbiait. 

fFITH   FOUR  ILLUSTRATIONS^  INCLUDING  PORTRAITS  OF 

THS  AUTHORS. 

In  stiff  paper  covert,  50e't.|  in  cicth,  90ctt. 

The  •€€&€  oT  t&b  norel/ooe  of  the  moat  powerful  ever  irritcn  by  these  joint  au- 
thoii»  is  laid  in  Phalabuig,  one  of  the  French  ttrongholib  which  recent  momentous 
ereno  have  agaih  made  prominent.  Like  all  the  other  stones  of  the  series  this  is 
lifelike,  spirited,  and  graphic  in  ici  description,  thrilling  in  incident,  and  perfectly 
pure  in  tone. 

CRITICISMS  OF  THE  LONDON  PRESS. 

"One  of  the  many  charming  tales  written  by  MM.  EnciCMANN'CiiATitiAN.  who 
have  proved  how  posnble  it  is  to  write  in  French  and  for  Frenchmen  noveb  that  are 
ao  pure  that  they  may  be  placed  in  the  hands  of  young  maidens,  and  so  beautiful  that 
^ey  must  charm  every  reader  whose  taste  has  not  been  injured  by  the  gilded  nasti- 
neas  so  common  in  French  fiction  '*-'-~Lpnd^m  Daily  New*. 

**  Thb  is  another  of  the  wonderful  photORraphic  pictures  of  war  which  have  made 
MM.  Ejkkmann-Chatkian  io  famous,  llicse  writers  ha\'C  a  singular  skill  in  lichting 
on  those  details  which  bring  a  thing  ck)scr  home  to  one  tlian  pages  of  powerful  MrnX,' 
ing."— ZtfWtfw  S^iaior, 

BV  THE  SAME  AUTHORS.-Uni/crm  nith^fu  mbfot  in  siyU  mmt /Htt, 

MADAME  THERE8E:  or,  tht  Votuntoere  of  '92.    With  five  fuU-poge  illustrations. 
THE  CONSCRIPT.  A  Story  of  tho  F/wch  War  of  1813.  With  eight  fulLpoge  illuarations 
WATERLOO.   A  SoqiMl  U  the  Conscript  of  1813.   With  six  fuU-pagc  Ulunratioas. 

CHARLES    SCRIBNER    &    CO., 
654  Broadway,  N.  Y. 


^I)e  liluetratcb  CtbrarQ  of  Ulonbcra 


TWENTY  yOLUJUBS  READY,  CONTAINING  OVER 

One  Thousand  Beautiful  Illustrations.  • 


The  extraordinary  popularity  achieved  by  the  "  ILLUSTRATED  LIBRARY  OP 
WONDERS**  is  baaed  upon  the  following  points:  lat  Its  design  is  entirely  unique. 
No  similar  collection  has  before  been  undertaken  in  this  country,  and  the  novelty  of  the 
plan  is  only  rivalled  by  its  aooepcability.  ad.  l*he  subjects  discussed  are  widely  diverw^ 
and  they  are  traced  by  writers  who  are  not  only  thoroughly  familiar  with  them,  but  who 
have  been  spedaKy  selected  for  their  ability  to  write  in  a  popular  and  entertaining  style. 
Each  volume  b  moreover  a  complete  treatise  in  itself  upon  tlie  particular  subject  to  which 
it  Is  devoted,  and  comprises  the  latest  devehqxnenis  in  each  department  of  investigation 
and  discovery.  3d.  llie  dlfTerent  Tolumes  are  profusely  illustrated  by  designs  from  the 
best  srtiats,  most  carefully  executed  and  specially  adapted  to  the  elucidation  of  the  text 
lliey  ara  handsomely  printed  upon  tinted  paper,  and  every  care  has  been  taken  in  their 
mechanical  production  to  make  them  an  ornament  to  the  FAMILY  or  SCHOOL 
LI  MK  AKY,  or  accepUble  for  use  as  PRIZES  or  PRESENTS,  for  aU  of  which  purposes 
they  are  unexcelled. 

Tlie  volumes  may  be  purchased  separately,  or  b  libraries  daasified  according  to  tber 
•nbjects,  as  below : 

Each  one  Yolvme  Itao.    Price  per  Yolvne  -  .  •  •  •    $1  60. 
Wotiders  of  Naiure.  Wonders  tf  ArL 

THE  HUMAN  BODY,  «J  ITALIAN  ART, 28 


THE  SUBLIME  IN  NATURE.  •  44 
INTELLIQENCE  OF  ANIMALS,  •  64 
THUNDER  AND  LIQHTNINQ,  •  80 
BOTTOM  OF  THE  SEA,  -  •  08 
METEORS. 

ttz  Yclvmet  in  a  neat  Imz,  $8  00 


ARCHITECTURE,  -      •      -      -     60 

CLASS  MAKING. 63 

LICHTHOUSES  A  LIGHTSHIPS.  60 
WONDERS  OF  POMPEII,  -  -  22 
EGYPT  8.300  YEARS  AGO,     -      40 

BlxTolnmeeinaneasboz,  $0  00 


WotuUrt  of  Science^ 

N0»  HlmttrmtitHt. 
THE  SUN.    BY  GUILLEMIN,     •   68 
WONDERS  OF  HEAT.        •      -       93 
OPTICAL  WONDERS,    -      •      •     71 
WONDERS  OF  ACOUSTICS.     -'110 

PcBrYda.  inaneat  box,  $6  0^ 


WottderftdAdventurtt  amdEx/ioits^ 

N*.  iUmstrmiimM 

ARMS  AND  ARMOI» 
BODILY  STRENGTH  *  SKILL,    }%» 
BALLOON  ASCENTS.    -      -      •   80 
GREAT  HUNTS.    ....       22 

Four  Yoli.  in  a  neat  boZ|  $6  00 


r  ih«  twenty  vlumw  named  mbvve  in  a  handsome  ease  ftr  $90  00, 

Any  or  all  the  TOliimes  of  the  ILLUSTRATED  UBRARY  OF  WONDERS  Mnt 
to  any  addreaa,  post  or  express  charges  paid,  oa  reosipt  of  the  pries. 

A  descriptive  CaUlogue  of  the  Wonder  Llbraiy,  with  spcdmea  lUustra* 
tloas,  teat  to  any  addross  oa  applicatioa. 


COMMON   SENSE 


IN     THE     HOUSEHOLD: 


A  MABUAL  OF 


PRACTICAL  HOUSEWIFERY. 


BT 

MARION    HARLAND. 


**  W^  go  npon  ^e  pxactlcal  mods  of  teaching,  NlcUeliy.    Wliea  •  toy  \novn 
thla  oat  of  book,  he  goet  and  4m»  U,    Thl«  Is  our  lyvtein.    What  do  70a  think  of 


NeiD  Sotk: 

CHARLES    80BIBNER    &    00. 

1871. 


NAKVAIIO  COLLEGE  LIBRARY 

BEQUEST  OF 

MRS.  CHESTER  N.  QREENOUGN 

SEPTEMBER  20,  1t2« 


Entered  Moordln;  to  Act  of  Ooagi'Mi,  in  the  year  1871,  by 

CHARLES  BCBIBNEIt  &  CO, 
in  the  Offlce  of  the  Librarian  of  CongreM  at  Washington. 


t4C 

ti  I, 


TIB  nw  TOBK  FaiXTIVO  COMFAVT, 
Ml,  Ml,  Ml^  til,  flU  ImI  lllb  BtiMt. 


^n^* 


TO  MT 

FELLOW-nOUSEKBEPSBS, 
KOBTH,    KA8T,    BOtTTH   AKD   WEST,  THIB  TOLXIIIE, 

THE    GLEANINGS    OF    MANY    YEARS, 

IB  COBDIALLT 


lOMtattb. 


INDEX  OF  GENERAL  SUBJECTS. 


PACPK 

Blano-maDge 625 

BtcmL  ...    .  269 

Bnndied  fmits 478 

Butter 263 

Cakes 810 

Candy 479 

Cannod  fmitB 473 

"       yegetables 476 

Catsaps 198 

Clean,  to,  etc. 628 

Company 154 

Com  bread 294 

Creams 425 

Crutaida 425 

Drinks 491 

Eggs 252 

Familiar  talk 18 

Fish 50 

Fritters 415 

Fruit,  ripe,  for  dessert 453 

Game 160 

Gingeitoead 848 

Ices 448 

loeKsraam 448 

Icing 818 


PAOS 

JeUies 425 

Jenic8,£rait 470 

Meats 98 

Milk 268 

Nnisery,  the 522 

Pancakes 415 

Pickles 480 

Pies 849 

Preserves 472 

Pork 128 

Poultry 82 

Paddings 888 

Salads 200 

Saaoes  for  fish  and  meat. . . .  183 

*'     for  paddings 419 

Servants 870 

Sick-room,  the 503 

SheU-fish 70 

Soap 589 

Soaps 27 

Sandries 528 

Tarts 863 

Vegetables 210 

Vinegars,  flavored 103 


i 


A  TALK  aa  woman  to  woman,  in  which  each  shall  say, 
**  I "  and  "  you,"  and  "  my  dear,"  and  "  you  know,"  as  free- 
ly as  she  pleases.  It  would  not  be  a  womanly  chat  if  we 
omitted  these  forms  of  expression.  An  informal  preface  to 
what  I  mean  shall  be  an  informal  book — bristling  with 
**  I's "  all  the  way  through.  If  said  bristles  offend  the 
critic's  touch,  let  him  remember  that  this  work  is  not  pre- 
pared for  the  library,  but  for  readers  who  trouble  themselves 
little  about  editorial  "  we's "  and  the  circumlocutions  of 
literary  modesty. 

I  wish  it  were  in  my  power  to  bring  you,  the  prospec- 
tive owner  of  this  volume,  in  person,  as  I  do  in  spirit,  to 
my  side  on  this  winter  evening,  when  the  baimies  are 
*^  folded  like  the  flocks ; "  the  orders  for  breakfast  com- 
mitted to  the  keeping  of  Bridget,  or  Gretchen,  or  Ohloe,  or 
the  plans  for  the  moiTow  definitely  laid  in  the  brain  of  that 
ever-busy,  but  most  independent  of  women,  the  housekeep- 
er who  ''  does  her  own  work."  I  should  perhaps  summon  to 
our  cozy  conference  a  very  weary  companion — ^weary  of 
foot,  of  hand — and  I  should  not  deserve  to  be  your  confidant, 
did  I  not  know  how  often  heart- weary  with  discouragement ; 
with  much  producing  of  ways  and  means ;  with  a  certain 
despondent  looking  forward  to  the  monotonous  grinding  of 
the  household  machine ;  to  the  certainty,  proved  by  past  ex- 


14  COMMON  8EN8E. 

peiience,  that  toilsome  as  has  been  this  day,  the  morrow 
will  prove  yet  more  abuudant  in  labors,  in  trials  of  strength) 
and  nerves,  and  temper.  You  would  tell  me  what  a  dreary 
problem  this  of  '^  woman^s  work  that  is  never  done  "  is  to 
your  fainting  soul ;  how,  try  as  you  may  and  as  you  do  to 
be  systematic  and  diligent,  something  is  always  ^'  turning 
up  "  in  the  treadmill  to  keep  you  on  the  strain ;  how  you 
often  say  to  yourself,  in  bitterness  of  spirit,  that  it  is  a  mis- 
take of  Christian  civilization  to  educate  girls  into  a  love  of 
science  and  literature,  and  then  condemn  them  to  the  routine 
of  a  domestic  drudge.  You  do  not  see,  you  say,  that  years 
of  scholastic  training  will  make  you  a  better  cook,  a  better 
wife  or  mother.  You  have  seen  the  time — nay,  many  times, 
since  assuming  your  present  position — when  you  would  have 
exchanged  your  knowledge  of  ancient  and  modem  languages, 
belles-lettres,  music,  and  natural  science,  for  the  skill  of  a 
competent  kitchen-maid.  The  "  learning  how  "  is  such  hard 
work  I  Labor,  too,  uncheered  by  encouraging  words  from 
mature  housewives,  unsofbened  by  sympathy  even  frt)m  your 
husband,  or  your  father  or  brother,  or  whoever  may  be  the 
"  one  "  to  whom  you  **  make  home  lovely."  It  may  be  that, 
in  utter  discouragement,  you  have  made  up  your  mind  that 
you  have  '^  no  talent  for  these  things." 

I  have  before  me  now  the  picture  of  a  wife,  the  mother 
of  four  children,  who,  many  years  ago,  sickened  me  for  all 
time  with  that  phrase.  In  a  slatternly  morning-gown  at 
four  in  the  afternoon,  leaning  back  in  the  laziest  and  most 
ragged  of  rocking-chairs,  dust  on  the  carpet,  on  the  open 
piano,  the  mantel,  the  mirrors,  even  on  her  own  hair,  she 
rubbed  the  soft  palm  of  one  hand  with  the  grimy  fingers  of 
the  other,  and  with  a  sickly-sweet  smile  whined  out — 

^'  Now,  I  am  one  of  the  kind  who  have  no  talent  for 
such  things !  The  kitchen  and  housework  and  sewing  are 
absolutely  hateful  to  me — utterly  uncongenial  to  my  turn 


JAMnJAR  TALK  WITH  ICT  BSADEB.  15 

of  mind.  The  height  of  my  earUilj  ambition  is  to  have 
nothing  to  do  but  to  peint  on  velvet  all  day  1 " 

I  felt  then,  in  the  height  of  my  indignant  disgust,  that 
there  was  propriety  as  well  aa  wit  in  the  "  Spectator's  "  sug- 
gestion that  every  young  woman  should,  before  fixing  the 
wedding-day,  be  compelled  by  law  to  exhibit  to  inspectors  a 
prescribed  number  of  useful  articles  as  her  outfit — napery, 
bed-linen,  clothing,  etc.,  made  by  her  own  hands,  and  that 
it  would  be  wise  legislation  which  should  add  to  these  proofs 
of  her  fitness  for  her  new  sphere  a  practical  knowledge  of 
housework  and  cookery. 

If  you  have  not  what  our  Yankee  grandmothers  termed 
a  "  fiunilty ''  for  housewifery — ^yet  are  obliged,  as  is  the 
caae  with  an  immense  majority  of  American  women,  to 
conduct  the  afiairs  of  a  household,  bills  of  hxe  included — 
there  ia  the  more  reason  for  earnest  application  to  your  pro- 
fession. If  the  natural  taste  be  dull,  lay  to  it  more  strength 
of  will — resolution  bom  of  a  just  sense  of  the  importance 
of  the  knowledge  and  dexterity  you  would  acquire.  Do 
not  scoff  at  the  word  ^^  profession."  Call  not  that  common 
and  unclean  which  Providence  has  designated  as  your  life- 
work.  I  speak  not  now  of  the  labors  of  the  culinary  de- 
partment alone ;  but^  without  naming  the  other  duties  which 
you  and  you  only  can  perform,  I  do  insist  that  upon  method, 
skill,  economy  in  the  kitchen,  depends  so  much  of  the  well- 
being  of  the  rest  of  the  household,  that  it  may  safely  be 
styled  the  root — the  foundation  of  housewifery.  I  own  it 
would  be  pleasanter  in  most  cases,  especially  to  those  who 
have  cultivated  a  taste  for  intellectual  pursuits,  to  live 
above  the  heat  and  odor  of  this  department.  It  must  be 
veiy  fine  to  have  an  efficient  aide-de-camp  in  the  person  of 
a  French  cook,  or  a  competent  sub-manager,  or  an  accom- 
plished head-waiter  who  receives  your  orders  for  the  day  in 
your  boudoir  or  library,  and  executes  the  same  with  seal 


16  OOMHON  8BNSB. 

and  discretion  that  leave  you  no  room  for  anxiety  or  regret. 
Such  mistresses  do  not  need  cookery-books.  The  few — ^and 
it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  in  this  country  these  are  very 
few — ^bom  in  an  estate  like  this  would  not  comprehend 
what  I  am  now  writing ;  would  not  enter  into  the  depths 
of  that  compassionate  yearning  which  moves  me  as  I  think 
of  what  I  have  known  for  myself  in  the  earlier  years  of  my 
wedded  life,  what  I  have  heard  and  seen  in  other  house- 
holds of  honest  intentions  brou^t  to  contempt ;  of  ill-di- 
rected toil ;  of  mortification,  and  the  heavy,  wearing  sense 
of  inferiority  that  puts  the  novice  at  such  a  woful  disadvan- 
tage in  a  community  of  notable  managers. 

There  is  no  use  in  enlarging  upon  this  point.  You  and 
I  might  compare  experiences  by  the  hour  without  exhaust- 
ing our  store. 

**And  then" — ^you  sigh,  with  a  sense  of  resentment 
upon  you,  however  amiable  your  disposition,  for  the  provo- 
cation is  dire^^'  cookery-books  and  young  housekeepers* 
assistants,  and  all  that  sort  of  thing,  are  such  humbugs  1 — 
dark  lanterns  at  best — ^too  often  WLU-o'-the-wisps.'* 

My  dear,  would  you  mind  handing  me  the  book  which 
lies  nearest  you  on  the  table  tJiei-e?  '< Dickens?"  Of 
course.  You  will  usually  find  something  of  his  in  every 
room  in  this  house — almost  as  surely  as  you  will  a  Bible. 
It  rests  and  refreshes  one  to  pick  him  up  at  odd  times,  and 
clip  in  anywhere.  Hear  the  bride,  Mrs.  John  Bokesmith, 
upon  our  common  grievance. 

^^  She  was  under  the  constant  necessity  of  referring  for 
advice  and  support  to  a  sage  volume,  entitled  '  The  Com- 
plete British  Family  Housewife,'  which  she  would  sit  con- 
sulting, with  her  elbows  upon  the  table,  and  her  temples  in 
her  hands,  like  some  perplexed  enchantress  poring  over  the 
Black  Art.  This,  principally  because  the  Complete  British 
Housewife,  however  sound  -a  Briton  at  heart,  was  by  no 


FAMILIAS  TALE  WITH  HY  BEADEB.  17 

means  an  expert  Briton  at  expressing  herself  with  clearness 
in  the  British  tongue,  and  sometimes  might  have  issued  her 
directions  to  equal  purpose  in  the  Kamtchatkan  language/' 

Don't  interrupt  me,  my  long-suffering  sister !  There  is 
more  of  the  same  sort  to  come. 

'^  There  was  likewise  a  coolness  on  the  pai*t  of  ^  The 
Complete  British  Housewife '  which  Mrs.  John  Bokesmith 
found  highly  exasp^naUng.  She  would  say,  ^  Take  a  sala- 
mander,' as  if  a  general  should  command  a  private  to  catch 
a  Tartar.  Or,  she  would  casually  issue  the  order,  ^  Throw 
in  a  handful'  of  something  entirely  unattainable.  In 
these,  the  housewife's  most  glaring  moments  of  unreason, 
Bella  would  shut  her  up  and  knock  her  on  the  table,  apos- 
trophizing her  with  the  compliment — '  O  you  ABE  a  stupid 
old  donkey  !     Where  am  I  to  get  it,  do  you  think  ? '  " 

When  I  took  possession  of  my  first  real  home,  the  pret- 
tily furnished  cottage  to  which  I  came  as  a  bride,  more  full 
of  hope  and  courage  than  if  I  had  been  wiser,  ^ve  good 
friends  presented  me^th  as  many  cookery-books,  each  com- 
plete, and  all  by  different  compilers.  One  day's  investiga- 
tion of  my  tnSnage  convinced  me  that  ipy  lately-hired 
servants  knew  no  more  about  cookery  than  I  did,  or  affected 
stupidity  to  develop  my  capabilities  or  ignorance.  Too 
proud  to  let  them  suspect  the  truth,  or  to  have  it  bruited 
abroad  as  a  topic  for  pitying  or  contemptuous  gossip,  I 
shut  myself  up  with  my  "  Ck>mplete  Housewives,"  and  in- 
clined seriously  to  the  study  of  the  same,  comparing  one 
with  the  other,  and  seeking  to  shape  a  theory  which  should 
grow  into  practice  in  accordance  with  the  best  authority. 
I  don't  like  to  remember  that  time  I  The  question  of  dis- 
agreeing doctors,  and  the  predicament  of  falling  between 
two  stools,  are  trivial  perplexities  when  compared  with  my 
strife  and  fidlure. 

Said  the  would-be  studious  countryman  to  whom  a  mis- 


\ 


18  OOMlfON  BJEN8E. 

chievous  aoqnaintanoe  lent  ''Webster's  Unabridged  Dio- 
tionarj "  as  an  entertaining  volume, ''  I  vrastled,  and  I 
wrastled,  and  I  wrastled  with  it^  but  I  couldn't  get  up  much 
of  an  interest." 

Mj  wrestling  begat  naught  save  pitiable  confusion,  hope- 
less distress,  and  a  three-days'  sick  headache,  during  which 
season  I  am  not  sure  that  I  did  not  darkly  contemplate  sui- 
cide as  the  only  sure  escape  from  the  meshes  that  girt  me. 
At  the  height-  -or  depth— of  my  despondency  a  friend,  one 
with  a  great  heart  and  steady  brain,  came  to  my  rescue. 
Her  cheerful  laugh  over  my  dilemma  rings  down  to  me 
now,  through  all  these  years,  refreshingly  as  it  then  saluted 
my  ears. 

*^  Bless  your  innocent  little  heart ! "  she  cried,  in  her 
fresh,  gay  voice, ''  Ninety-nine  out  of  a  bundled  cook-books 
are  written  by  people  who  never  kept  house,  and  the  hun- 
dredth by  a  good  cook  who  yet  doesn't  know  how  to  express 
herself  to  the  enlightenment  of  others.  Compile  a  receipt- 
book  for  yourself.  Make  haste  slowly.  Leaiix  one  thing  at 
a  time,  and  when  you  have  mastered  it,  '  mike  a  note  on 
it^'  as  Captain  Cuttle  says — never  losing  sight  of  the  princi- 
ple that  you  must  do  it  in  order  to  learn  how.'''* 

Then  she  opened  to  me  her  own  neatly-v^ritten  '^  Man- 
ual"— the  work  of  years,  recommending,  as  I  seized  it, 
that  I  should  commence  my  novitiate  with  simple  dishes. 

This  was  the  beginning  of  the  hoard  of  practical  receipts 
I  now  offer  for  your  inspection.  For  fifteen  years,  I  have 
steadily  pursued  this  work,  gleaning  here  and  sifting  there, 
and  levying  such  remorseless  contributions  upon  my  friends, 
that  I  fear  the  sight  of  my  paper  and  pencil  hax  long  since 
become  a  bugbear.  For  the  kindness  and  courtesy  which 
have  been  my  invariable  portion  in  this  quest,  I  hereby  re- 
turn hearty  thanks.  For  the  encouraging  words  and  good 
wishes  that  have  ever  answered  the  hint  of  my  intention  to 


FAMILIAB  TALK  WITH  M7  BSADEB.  19 

collect  what  had  proved  so  valuable  to  me  into  a  printed 
volume,  I  declare  myself  to  be  yet  more  a  debtor.  I  do 
not  claim  for  my  compend  the  proud  pre-eminence  of  the 
**  Complete  American  Housewife."  It  is  no  boastful  system 
of  "  Cookery  Taught  in  Twelve  Lessons."  And  I  should 
write  myself  down  a  knave  or  a  fool,  were  I  to  assert  that 
a  raw  cook  or  ignorant  mistress  can,  by  half-a-day's  study 
of  my  collection,  equal  Soyer  or  Blot,  or  even  approximate 
the  art  of  a  half-taught  scullion. 

We  may  as  well  start  from  the  right  point,  if  we  hope 
to  continue  friends.  Tou  must  learn  the  rudiments  of  the 
art  for  yourself!  Practice,  and  practice  alone,  will  teach 
you  certain  essentials.  The  management  of  the  ovens,  the 
requisite  thickness  of  boiling  custards,  the  right  shade  of 
brown  upon  bread  and  roasted  meats — these  and  dozens  of 
other  details  are  hints  which  cannot  be  imparted  by  written 
or  oral  instructions.  But,  once  learned,  they  are  never  for- 
gotten, and  henceforward  your  fate  is  in  your  own  hands. 
You  are  mistress  of  yourself,  though  servants  leave.  Have 
faith  in  your  own  abilities.  You  tvill  be  a  better  cook  for 
the  mental  training  you  have  received  at  school  and  from 
books.  Brains  tell  eveiywhere,  to  say  nothing  of  intel- 
ligent observation,  just  judgment,  a  faithful  memory,  and 
orderly  habits.  Consider  that  you  have  a  profession,  as  I 
said  just  now,  and  resolve  to  understand  it  in  all  its  branches. 
My  book  is  designed  to  help  you.  I  believe  it  will,  if  for 
no  other  reason,  because  it  has  been  a  faithful  guide  to  my- 
self— a  reference  beyond  value  in  seasons  of  doubt  and  need. 
I  have  brought  every  receipt  to  the  test  of  common  sense 
and  experience.  Those  which  I  have  not  tried  myself  were 
obtained  from  reliable  housewives — the  best  I  know.  I 
have  enjoyed  the  task  heartily,  and  from  first  to  last  the 
persuasion  has  nqver  left  me  that  I  was  engaged  in  a  good 
cause.     Throughout  I  have  had  you,  my  dear  sister,  present 


20  OOMlfOK  BBN8B. 

before  me,  with  the  little  plait  between  your  brows,  the 
wistful  look  about  eye  and  mouth  that  reveal  to  me,  aa 
words  could  not,  your  desire  to  ^  do  your  best.'' 

^'  In  a  humble  home,  and  in  a  humble  way,"  I  hear  you 
add,  perhapsj  you  ^^  are  not  ambitious ; "  you  '^  only  want 
to  help  John,  and  to  make  him  and  the  children  comfortable 
and  happy." 

Heaven  reward  your  honest,  loyal  endeavors  !  Would 
you  mind  if  I  were  to  whisper  a  word  in  your  ear  I  don't 
care  to  have  progressive  people  hear? — although  progress 
is  a  grand  thing  when  it  takes  the  right  direction.  My 
dear,  John  and  the  chUdren,  and  the  humble  home,  make 
your  sphere  for  the  present,  you  say.  Be  sure  you  fill  it — 
f^dlL  I  before  you  seek  one  wider  and  higher.  There  is  no 
better  receipt  between  these  covers  than  that.  Leave  the 
rest  to  God.  Everybody  knows  those  four  lines  of  George 
Herbert's,  which  ought  to  be  framed  and  hung  up  in  the 
work-room  of  every  house  : — 

*'  A  servant,  with  this  clause^ 
Makes  drudgery  divme ; 
Who  sweeps  a  room  as  for  Thy  laws 
Makes  that  and  th'  action  fine." 

I  wonder  if  the  sainted  poet  knows — ^in  that  land  where 
drudgery  is  one  of  the  rough  places  forever  overpast,  and 
work  is  unmingled  blessing — to  how  many  sad  and  striving 
hearts  those  words  have  brought  peace  ? 

And  by  way  of  helping  John,  not  only  by  saving  money 
and  preparing  palatable  and  wholesome  dishes  for  his  table, 
but  by  sparing  the  wife  he  loves  many  needless  steps  and 
much  hurtful  care,  will  you  heed  a  homely  hint  or  two  re- 
lative to  the  practice  of  your  art?  Study  method,  and 
economy  of  time  and  strength,  no  less  than  of  materials. 
I  take  it  for  granted  that  you  are  too  intelligent  to  share  in 
the  vulgar  prejudice  against  labor-saving  machines.     A 


FAMHJAK  TALK  WITH  ICT  SEADEB.  21 

nisin-seeder  oosts  a  trifle  in  oomparison  with  the  time  and 
patience  required  to  stone  the  fruit  in  the  old  way.  A  good 
egg-beater  is  a  treasure.  So  with  fleunnarkettles,  syUabub- 
churns,  apple-corers,  potato-peelers  and  slioers,  clothe»- 
wiingera  and  sprinklers,  and  the  like.  Most  of  these  are 
made  of  tin — are  therefore  cheap  and  easily  kept  clean. 
Let  each  article  have  its  own  place  in  the  closet  and  kit- 
chen,  to  which  restore  it  so  soon  as  you  have  done  using  it. 
Before  undertaking  the  preparation  of  auy  dish,  read  over 
the  receipt  carefuJly,  unless  you  are  thoroughly  fiuniliar 
with  the  manufacture  of  it.  Many  excellent  housewives 
have  a  fieushion  of  saying  loftily,  when  asked  how  such  things 
are  made — ^'  I  carry  all  my  receipts  in  my  head.  I  never 
wrote  out  one  in  my  life. " 

And  you,  if  timid  and  self-distrustful,  are  smitten  with 
shame,  keep  your  receipt-book  out  of  sight,  and  cram  your 
memory  with  ingredients  and  measures,  times  and  weights, 
for  fear  Mrs.  Notable  should  suspect  you  of  rawness  and 
inefficiency.  Whereas  the  truth  is,  that  if  you  have  a  mind 
worthy  of  the  name,  its  powers  are  too  valuable  to  be  laden 
with  such  details.  Master  the  general  principles,  as  I  said 
just  now,  and  for  particulars  look  to  your  marching-orders. 
Having  refreshed  your  memory  by  this  reference,  pick  out 
from  your  household  stores,  and  set  in  convenient  order, 
within  reach  of  your  hand,  everything  you  will  need  in 
Tnakiug  ready  the  particular  compound  under  consideration. 
Then  take  your  stand  in  the  midst — or  sit,  if  you  can.  It 
is  common  sense-— oftentimes  a  pious  duty,  to  take  judicious 
care  of  your  physical  health.  I  lay  it  down  as  a  safe  and  im- 
perative rule  for  kitchen  use — Never  stand  wlien  you  can 
do  your  work  as  weU  while  silting.  If  I  could  have  John's 
ear  for  a  minute,  I  would  tell  him  that  which  would  lead 
hin\  to  watch  you  and  exercise  wholesome  authority  in  this 
regard* 


22  COMMON  SKN8E. 

Next,  prepai'e  each  ingredient  for  mixing,  that  the  bread, 
cake,  pudding,  soup,  or  logout  may  not  be  delayed  when 
half  finished  because  the  flour  is  not  sifted,  or  the  **  shorten- 
ing "  warmed,  the  sugar  and  butter  are  not  creamed,  the 
meat  not  cut  up,  or  the  herbs  not  minced.  Don't  begin 
until  you  are  ready ;  then  go  steadily  forward,  ^^  without 
haste,  without  rest,''  and  think  of  what  you  are  doing. 

"  Dickens  again  ?  " 

Why  not,  since  there  is  no  more  genial  and  pertinent 
philosopher  of  common  life  aiid  every-day  subjects?  To 
quote,  then: — 

''It  was  a  maxim  of  Captain  Swosser's,"  said  Mrs. 
Badger,  ''  speaking  in  his  figurative,  naval  manner,  that 
when  you  make  pitch  hot,  you  cannot  make  it  too  hot,  and 
that  if  you  have  only  to  swab  a  plank,  you  should  swab  it 
as  if  Davy  Jones  were  after  you.  It  appears  to  me  that  this 
maxim  is  applicable  to  the  medical  as  well  as  the  nautical 
profession." 

**  To  all  professions  I "  observed  Mr.  Badger.  "  It  was 
admirably  said  by  Captain  Swosser ;  beautifully  said  1 " 

But  it  will  sometimes  happen  that  when  you  have  heated 
your  pitch,  or  swabbed  your  deck,  or  made  your  pudding 
according  to  the  lights  set  before  you,  the  result  is  a  failure. 
This  is  especially  apt  to  occur  in  a  maiden  effort.  You 
have  wasted  materials  and  time,  and  suffered,  moreover, 
acute  demoralization — ^are  enwrapped  in  a  wet  blanket  of 
discouragement,  instead  of  the  seemly  robe  of  complacency. 
Yet  no  part  of  the  culinary  education  is  more  useful,  if 
tui*ned  to  proper  account,  than  this  very  discipline  of  failure. 
It  is  a  stepping-stone  to  excellence — sharp,  it  is  true,  but 
often  sure.  You  have  learned  how  not  to  do  it  right,  which 
is  the  next  thing  to  success.  It  is  pretty  certain  that  you 
%  will  avoid,  in  your  second  essay,  the  rock  upon  which  ^ou 
have  split  this  time.     And,  after  all,  there  are  few  fjEdlures 


FAIOLIAB  TALK  WITH  KT  UEADKB,  23 

which  are  nttor  and  irremediable.  Scorched  soups  and 
custards,  souj:  bread,  biscuit  yellow  with  soda,  and  cake 
heaTj  as  lead,  come  under  the  head  of  '^  hopeless.'^  They 
are  absolutely  unfit  to  be  set  before  civilized  beings  and 
educated  stomachs.  Should  such  mishaps  occur,  lock  the 
memory  of  the  attempt  in  your  own  bosom,  and  do  not  vex 
or  amuse  John  and  your  guests  with  the  nanration,  still  less 
with  -visible  proof  of  the  calamity.  Many  a  partial  failure 
would  pass  unobserved  but  for  the  clouded  brow  and  earnest 
apologies  of  the  hostess.  Do  not  apologize  except  at  the 
last  gasp  I  Lf  there  is  but  one  chance  in  ten  that  a  single 
person  present  may  not  discover  the  deficiency  which  has 
changed  all  food  on  the  table  to  dust  and  gravel-stones  to 
you,  trust  to  the  one  chance,  and  carry  off  the  matter 
bravely.  Tou  will  be  astonished  to  find,  if  you  keep  your 
wits  about  you  how  often  even  your  husband  will  remain 
in  blissful  ignorance  that  aught  has  gone  wrong,  if  you  do 
not  tell  hiuL  You  know  so  well  what  should  have  been  the 
product  of  your  labor  that  you  exaggerate  the  justice  of 
others'  perceptions.  Console  yourself,  furthermore,  with 
the  reflection  that  yours  is  not  the  first  failure  upon  record, 
nor  the  million-and-first,  and  that  there  will  be  as  many  to- 
morrows as  there  have  been  yesterdays. 

Don't  add  to  a  trifling  corUretemps  the  real  discomfort 
of  a  discontented  or  fretful  wife.  Say  blithely,  if  John 
note  your  minfortune — ^^  I  hope  to  do  better  another  time," 
and' do  not  be  satisfied  until  you  have  redeemed  your 
pledge.  Experience  and  your  quick  wit  will  soon  teach  you 
how  to  avert  impending  evih  of  this  nature,  how  to  snatch 
your  preparations  from  imminent  destruction,  and,  by  in- 
genious correctives  or  concealments,  to  make  them  present- 
able. These  you  will  soon  learn  for  yourself  if  you  keep 
before  you  the  truism  I  have  abready  written,  to  wit,  that 
few  fidlnres  are  beyond  repair. 


24  OOMMON  BEN8K. 

Never  try  experiments  for  the  benefit  of  inyited  gnesta 
nor,  when  John  is  at  home,  riak  the  success  of  yonr  meal 
upon  a  new  dish.  Have  something  which  you  know  he 
can  eat,  and  introduce  experiments  as  by-phiy.  But  do  not 
be  too  shy  of  innovations  in  the  shape  of  untried  dishes. 
Variety  is  not  only  pleasant,  but  healthfuL  The  least 
pampered  palate  will  weary  of  stereotyped  bills  of  fare.  It 
is  an  idea  which  should  have  been  exploded  long  ago,  that 
plain  roast,  boiled,  and  fried,  on  Monday,  Tuesday,  Wednes- 
day, and  Thursday,  cod-fish  on  Friday,  with  pork-and-beans 
every  Saturday,  are  means  of  grace,  because  economical. 
And  with  this  should  have  vanished  the  prejudice  against 
warmed-over  meals — or  rechauffes^  as  our  French  Mends 
term  them.  I  have  tried,  in  the  following  pages,  to  set 
forth  the  attractions  of  these,  their  claims  to  your  attention 
as  being  savory,  economical,  nourishing,  and  often  elegant. 
In  preparing  these  acceptably,  everything  depends  upon 
your  own  taste  and  skill.  Season  with  judgment,  cook 
just  enough  and  not  a  minute  too  long,  and  dish  nicely. 
The  recommendation  of  the  eye.  to  ibe  palate  is  a  point  no 
cook  can  afibrd  to  disregard.  If  you  can  offer  an  unex- 
pected visitor  nothing  better  than  bread-and-butter  and  cold 
ham,  he  will  enjoy  the  luncheon  twice  as  much  if  the  bread 
be  sliced  thinly  and  evenly,  spread  smoothly,  each  slice 
folded  in  the  middle  upon  the  buttered  surface,  and  piled 
symmetrically  ;  if  the  ham  be  also  cut  thin,  scarcely  thicker 
than  a  wafer,  and  garnished  with  parsley,  cresses,  or  curled 
lettuce.  Set  on  mustard  and  pickles ;  let  the  table-cloth 
and  napkin  be  white  and  glossy ;  the  glass  clear,  and  plate 
shining  clean ;  and  add  to  these  accessories  to  comfort  a 
bright  welcome,  and,  my  word  for  it,  you  ileed  fear  no  dis- 
satisfaction on  his  part,  however  epicurean  may  be  his 
tastes.  Should  your  cupboard  be  bare  of  aught  more  sub- 
stantial than  crackers  and  cheese,  do  not  yield  to  dismay. 


FAMILIAB  TALK   WITH  MY  READER.  25 

Split  the  crackers  (if  splittable),  toast  the  inside  lightly, 
and  butter  while  hot.  Grate  your  cheese  into  a  powaery 
mound,  garnishing  the  edges  of  the  plate.  If  you  have  no 
beverage  except  water  to  set  before  him,  let  thiJB  be  cool, 
and  pour  it  out  for  him  yourself,  into  an  irreproachable 
glass.  A  dirty  table-cloth,  a  smeared  goblet,  or  a  sticky 
plate,  will  spoil  the  most  luxurious  feast.  A  table  well  set 
is  half-spread. 

I  have  not  said  one-tenth  of  that  which  is  pressing  upon 
my  heart  and  mind,  yet  I  fear  you  may  think  me  trite  and 
tedious.  One  suggestion  more,  and  we  will  proceed  to  the 
details  of  business. 

I  believe  that,  so  £sur  ajs  care  can  avail  in  securing  such 
a  result,  my  receipts  are  accurate.  But  in  the  matter  of 
seasoning  and  other  minor  details,  consult  your  judgment 
and  John's  taste.  Take  this  liberty  with  whatever  receipt 
you  think  you  can  improve.  If  I  chance  to  find  in  your 
work-basket,  or  upon  the  kitchen  dresser,  a  well-thumbed 
copy  of  my  beloved  "  Common  Sense,"  with  copious  anno- 
tations in  the  margin,  I  shall,  so  far  from  feeling  wounded, 
be  flattered  in  having  so  diligent  a  student,  and,  with  your 
permission,  shall  engi^aft  the  most  happy  suggestions  upon 
the  second  edition. 

For  the  speedy  issue  of  which,  the  petitioner  doth  hum- 
bly pray. 

Marion  Harland. 
2 


NOTE. 

In  lookjng  over  this  book  the  leader  will  nofdoe  certain  receipts 
marked  thus — ^  I  do  not  claim  for  these  greater  merit  than  should 
of  right  be  accorded  to  many  others.  I  merely  wish  to  call  the  at- 
tention of  the  novice  to  them  aa  certainly  safe,  and  for  the  most 
part  simple.  Every  one  thus  marked  has  been  tried  by  myself; 
most  of  them  are  in  frequent,  some  in  daily  use,  in  my  own  family. 

My  reason  for  thus  mngling  out  comparatively  a  small  number  of 
receipts  from  the  rest,  is  the  reoollectian  of  my  own  perplexities — 
the  loss  of  time  and  patience  to  which  I  have  been  subjected  in  the 
examination  of  a  new  cookery-book,  with  an  eye  to  immediate  use 
of  the  directions  laid  down  for  various  dishes.  I  have  often  and 
vainly  wished  for  a  finger-board  to  guide  me  in  my  search  for  those 
which  were  easy  and  sure,  and  which  would  result  satisfactorily. 
This  sort  of  directozy  I  have  endeavored  to  supply,  taking  care, 
however,  to  inform  the  reader  in  advance  that,  so  far  as  I  know, 
there  ia  not  an  unsafe  receipt  in  the  whole  work. 

Of  course  it  was  not  necessary  or  expedient  to  append  the  above 
sign  to  plain  '*  roast  and  boiled,*'  which  are  in  common  use  eveiy* 
where. 


SOUPS. 

The  base  of  your  soup  sbotild  always  be  uncooked  meat. 
To  this  may  be  added^  if  you  like,  cracked  bones  of  cooked 
game,  or  of  underdone  beef  or  mutton ;  but  for  flavor  and 
nourishment^  depend  upon  the  juices  of  the  meat  which 
was  put  in  raw.  Cut  this  into  small  pieces,  and  beat  tlie 
bone  until  it  is  fractured  at  every  inch  of  its  length.  Put 
them  on  in  cold  water,  without  salt,  and  heat  very  slowly. 
Do  not  boil  fast  at  any  stage  of  the  operation.  Keep  the 
pot  covered,  and  do  not  add  the  salt  until  the  meat  is  thor- 
oughly done,  as  it  has  a  tendency  to  harden  the  fibres,  and 
restrain  the  flow  of  the  juices.  Strain — always  through  a 
cullender,  after  which  clear  soups  should  be  filtered  through 
a  hair-sieve  or  coarse  bobbinet  lace.  The  bag  should  not 
be  squeezed. 

It  is  slovenly  to  leave  rags  of  meat,  husks  of  vegetables 
and  bits  of  bone  in  the  tureen.  Do  not  uncover  until  you 
are  ready  to  ladle  out  the  soup.  Do  this  neatly  and  quickly, 
having  your  soup-plates  heated  beforehand. 

Most  soups  are  better  the  second  day  than  the  first,  un- 
less they  are  wanned  over  too  quickly  or  left  too  long  upon 
the  fire  after  they  are  hot.  In  the  one  case  they  are  apt 
to  scorch ;  in  the  other  they  become  insipid. 


28  CO^CMON   BEN8E. 


VEGETABLE     SOUPS. 

Green  Pea.     (No.  1.)  •!• 

4  lbs.  beef — cut  into  small  pieces. 
^  peck  of  green  peas. 

1  gallon  water. 

Boil  the  empty  pods  of  the  peas  in  the  water  one  hour 
before  putting  in  the  beef.  Strain  them  out,  add  the  beef, 
and  boil  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half  longer.  Half  an  hour 
before  serving,  add  the  shelled  peas ;  and  twenty  minutes 
later,  half  a  cup  of  rice-flour,  with  salt  and  j)epper.  A 
little  chopped  parsley  is  an  improvement.  After  adding 
the  rice-flour,  stir  fi'equently,  to  prevent  scorching.  Strain 
into  a  hot  tureen. 

Green  Pea.     (No.  2.) 

2  qts.  of  veal  or  beef  broth. 
^  tea8i>oonful  sugar. 

1  tablesix)onful  butter. 
1  qt.  shelled  peas. 

Bring  the  broth  to  a  boil ;  put  in  the  peas,  and  boil  for 
twenty  minutes.  Add  the  sugar,  and  a  biuich  of  green 
mint.  Boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour  more,  and  stir  in  the 
butter,  with  pepper  and  salt,  if  the  broth  be  not  sufliciently 
Baited  already.  Sti*ain  before  serving,  and  send  to  table  with 
small  squares  of  toasted  bread  floating  upon  the  top. 

Split  Pea  {dried).  •!• 
1  gallon  water. 

1  qt.  split  peas,  which  have  been  soajced  over  night. 
1  lb.  salt  pork,  cut  into  bits  an  inch  square, 
i  lb.  beef,  "  « 


VEGETABLE   SOUPS.  29 

Put  over  the  fire,  and  boil  slowly  for  two  hours,  or  until 
the  quantity  of  liquor  does  not  exceed  two  quarts.  Pour 
into  a  cullender,  and  press  the  peas  tlirough  it  with  a  wooden 
or  silver  spoon.  Return  the  souj)  to  the  pot,  adding  a  small 
head  of  celery,  chopped  up,  a  little  parsley,  or,  if  preferred, 
summer  savoiy  or  sweet  marjoram.  Have  ready  three  or 
four  slices  of  bread  (stale)  which  have  been  fried  in  butter 
until  they  are  brown ;  cut  into  slices  and  scatter  them  upon 
the  surface  of  tho  soup  after  it  is  poured  into  the  tureen. 

Pea  and  Tomato.  •!• 

This  is  made  according  to  eitlier  of  the  foregoing  receipts, 
in  summer  with  green — ^in  winter  with  dried  and  split 
peas.  Just  before  straining  the  soup,  add  a  quart  of  tomar 
toes,  which  have  already  been  stewed  soft ;  let  the  whole 
come  to  a  good  boil,  and  strain  as  above  directed.  If  the 
stewed  tomato  be  watery,  strain  off  the  superfluous  liquid 
before  pouring  into  the  pea  soup,  or  it  will  be  too  thin. 

Bean  (dried).  •{* 

The  beans  used  for  this  purpose  may  be  the  ordinary 
kidney,  the  rice  or  field  bean,  or,  best  of  all,  the  French 
mock-turtle  soup  bean. '  Soak  a  quart  of  these  over  night 
in  soft  lukewarm  water ;  put  them  over  the  fire  next  morn- 
ing, with  one  gallon  of  cold  water  and  about  two  pounds  of 
salt  j)ork.  Boil  slowly  for  three  hours,  keej)ing  the  pot 
well  covered ;  shred  into  it  a  head  of  celery,  add  pepper — 
cayenne,  if  preferred — simmer  half  an  hour  longer,  strain 
through  a  cullender,  and  serve,  with  slices  of  lemon  passed 
to  each  guest. 

Mock-turtle  beans,  treated  in  this  way,  yield  a  very  fair 
substitute  for  the  fine  calf  Vhead  soup  known  by  the  same 
name. 


30  COMMON  SENSE. 

Bean  and  Corn.  •{« 

This  is  a  winter  soup,  and  is  made  of  white  beans  pre- 
pared according  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  bnt  with  the  addi- 
tion of  a  quart  of  dried  or  canned  com.  If  the  former  is 
used — and  the  Shaker  sweet  com  is  nearly  as  good  for  the 
purpose  as  the  more  expensive  canned  gi*een  com — soak  it 
overnight  in  warm  water — changing  this  early  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  pouring  on  more  warm  water,  barely  enough  to 
cover  the  corn,  and  keeping  it  in  a  close  vessel  until  ready 
to  put  on  the  beans.  Let  all  boil  together,  with  pork  as  in 
the  bean  soup  proper.  Strain  out  as  usual.  Some  persons 
have  a  habit  of  neglecting  *the  use  of  the  cullender  in  mak- 
ing bean  soup,  and  serving  it  like  stewed  beans  which  have 
been  imperfectly  drained.  The  practice  is  both  slovenly 
and  unwholesome,  since  the  husks  of  the  cereal  are  thus  im- 
posed upon  the  digestive  organs  of  the  eater,  with  no  addi- 
tional nutriment.  To  the  beans  and  com  may  be  added  a 
pint  of  stewed  tomato,  if  desired. 

Asparagus  (  White  soup). 

3  lbs.  veal.     The  knuckle  is  best. 

3  bunches  asparagus,  as  well  bleached  as  you  can 

procure. 
1  gallon  water. 

Cut  off  the  hard  green  stem,  and  put  half  of  the  tender 
heads  of  the  asparagus  into  the  water  with  the  meat.  Boil 
in  a  closely  covered  pot  for  three  hours,  until  the  meat  is 
in  rags  and  the  asparagus  dissolved.  Strain  the  liquor  and 
return  to  the  pot,  with  the  remaining  half  of  the  asparagus 
heads.  Let  this  boil  for  twenty  minutes  more,  and  add,  be- 
fore taking  up,  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  (cream  is  better)  in 
•^  which  has  been  stirred  a  tablespoonful  of  rice-flour,  arrow- 
root, or  corn-starch.     When  it  has  fairly  boiled  up,  serve 


VEGETABLE  SOT7P8.  31 

without  further  straLDing,  with  small  squares  of  toast  in  the 
tureen.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

AspABAGUS  (  Oreen  soiip). 

3  lbs.  veal — cut  into  small  pieces. 

^  lb.  salt  pork. 

3  bunches  asparagus. 

]  gallon  water. 

Out  the  entire  stalk  of  the  asparagus  into  pieces  an  inch 
long,  and  when  the  meat  has  boiled  one  hour,  add  half  of  the 
vegetable  to  the  liquor  in  the  pot.  Boil  two  hours  longer 
and  strain,  pressing  the  asparagus  pulp  very  hard  to  extract 
all  the  green  coloring.  Add  the  other  half  of  the  aspara- 
gus— (the  heads  only,  which  should  be  kept  in  cold  water 
until  you  are  ready  for  them),  and  boil  twenty  minutes  more. 
Then  proceed  as  with  the  asparagus  white  soup,  omitting 
the  milk,  thickening,  and  salt.  The  pork  will  supply  the 
latter  seasoning. 

ToKATO  (  Winter  aovp).  4* 

3  lbs.  bee£ 

1  qt.  canned  tomatoes. 

1  gallon  water. 

Let  the  meat  and  water  boil  for  two  hours,  until  the 
liquid  is  reduced  to  little  more  than  two  quarts.  Then 
stir  in  the  tomatoes,  and  stew  all  slowly  for  three^uarters 
of  an  hour  longer.     Season  to  taste,  strain,  and  serve. 

Tomato  {Summer  aaup),  •{« 

2^  lbs.  Teal,  or  lamb. 

1  gallon  water. 

2  qts.  fresh  tomatoes,  peeled  and  cut  up  fine. 


32  COMMON   SEN8B. 

Boil  the  meat  to  shreds  and  the  water  down  to  two 
qaai-ts.  Strain  the  liquor,  put  in  the  tomatoes,  stirring 
them  very  hard  that  they  may  dLssolve  thoroughly ;  boil 
half  an  hour.  Season  with  parsley  or  any  other  green  herb 
you  may  prefer,  pepper,  and  salt.  Strain  again,  and  stir  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar, 
before  pouring  into  the  tureen. 

This  soup  is  more  palatable  still  if  made  with  the  broth 
in  which  chickens  were  boiled  for  yesterday^s  dinner. 

Turnip. 

Knuckle  of  veal,  well  cracked. 
5  qts.  water. 

Cover  closely  and  stew  gently  for  four  hours,  the  day 
before  the  soup  is  wanted.  On  the  morrow,  skim  off.  the 
fat  and  warm  the  stock  gradually  to  a  boil.  Have  ready 
an  onion  and  six  large  winter  or  a  dozen  small  summer 
turnips,  sweet  marjoram  or  thyme  minced  very  finely.  Put 
these  into  the  soup  and  let  them  simmer  together  for  an 
hour.  Strain ;  return  to  the  fire  and  add  a  cup  of  milk — 
in  which  has  been  stinted  a  tablespoonful  of  rice-flour  or 
other  thickening — and  a  tablespoonful  of  biitter.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  let  it  boil  up  once,  stirring  all  the 
time,  as  is  necessary  in  all  soups  where  milk  is  added  at 
the  last,  and  remove  instantly,  or  it  will  scorch. 

Potato. 

A  dozen  large  mealy  potatoes. 

2  onions. 

1  lb.  salt  pork. 

3  qts.  water. 

Boil  the  pork  in  the  clear  water  for  an  hour  and  a  half, 
then  take  it  out.     Have  ready  the  potatoes,  which,  after 


VEGETABLE  60UFB.  33 

• 

being  peeled  and  sliced,  should  lie  in  cold  water  for  half  an 
hour.  Throw  them  into  the  pot,  with  the  chopped  onion. 
Cover  and  boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  stirring  often. 
Beat  in  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a  cup  of  cream 
or  milk  in  which  has  been  mixed  a  well-beaten  egg.  Add 
the  latter  ingredients  carefidly,  a  little  at  a  time  ;  stir  while 
it  heats  to  a  final  boil,  and  then  serve. 

This  is  a  cheap  and  wholesome  dish,  and  more  palatable 
than  one  would  suppose  from  reading  the  receipt. 

Graham  Soup.  4* 

3  onions. 

3  carrots. 

4  turnips. 

1  small  cabbage. 

1  bunch  celery. 

1  pt.  stewed  tomatoes. 

Chop  all  the  vegetables,  except  the  tomatoes  and  cabbage, 
very  finely,  and  set  them  over  the  fire  with  rather  over 
three  quarts  of  water.  They  sliould  simmer  gently  for  half 
an  hour,  at  the  end  of  which  time  the  cabbage  must  be  added, 
having  previously  been  parboiled  and  chopped  up.  In  fif- 
teen minutes  more  put  in  the  tomatoes  and  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  and  give  all  a  lively  boil  of  twenty  minutes.  Bub 
through  a  cullender,  return  the  soup  to  the  fire,  stir  in  a 
good  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  half  a  cup  of 
cream  if  you  have  it,  thickened  with  corn-starch ;  let  it  boil 
up,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 

OcHRA,  OR  Gumbo. 

Ochra,  or  ohra^  is  a  vegetable  little  known  except  in  the 
far  South,  where  it  is  cultivated  in  large  quantities  and  is 
very  popular.  A  favorite  soup  is  prepared  from  it  in  the 
following  manner : — 

2* 


84  CX)MMON  BEN8B. 

2  qts.  of  ochraSy  sliced  thin. 

1  qt.  of  tomatoes,  also  sliced. 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

2  lbs.  of  beef,  cut  into  small  pieces. 

^  lb.  bam  or  pickled  pork,  also  cut  up. 

Put  the  meat  and  ochras  together  in  a  pot  with  a  quart 
of  cold  water — just  enough  to  cover  them — ^and  let  them 
stew  for  an  hour.  Then  add  the  tomatoes  and  two  quarts 
of  boiling  water— 7more  if  the  liquid  in  the  pot  has  boiled 
away  so  as  to  expose  the  meat  and  vegetables.  Boil  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  longer,  skimming  often  with  a  silver 
spoon.  When  the  contents  of  the  vessel  are  boiled  to  pieces, 
put  in  the  butter,  with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  if  the  ham 
has  not  seasoned  it  sufficiently.  Strain  and  send  up  with 
squares  of  light^  crisp  toast  floating  upon  it. 

Cork.  4* 

1  large  fowl,  cut  into  eight  pieces. 
1  dozen  ears  green  com. 

Boil  the  chicken  in  a  gallon  of  water  untiL  tender — if 
tough,  the  boiling  must  be  slow  and  long.  Then  cut  the 
com  from  the  cob  and  put  into  the  pot,  and  stew  an  hour 
longer — still  gently.  Kemove  the  chicken  with  a  cupful 
of  the  liquid,  if  you  wish  to  make  other  use  of  the  meat. 
Set  this  aside,  season  the  corn-soup  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
parsley;  thicken  with  rice  or  wheat  flour,  boil  up  once, 
and  serve  without  straining,  if  the  com  be  yoimg  and  tender. 

A  tolerable  fricassee  may  be  made  of  the  chicken,  unless 
it  has  boiled  to  rags,  by  beating  up  an  egg  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  adding  this  to  the  cupful  of  reserved  liquor, 
from  which  the  com  must  be  strained.  Boil  this  for  a 
moment,  thicken  with  flour,  throw  in  a  little  chopped  pars- 
ley, pepper,  and  salt,  pour,  while  scalding,  over  the  chicken, 


HEAT  80TTP8.  35 

which  yon  have  arranged  in  a  dish ;  garnish  with  circular 
slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  curled  parsley. 


MEAT    SOUPS. 

Beef  Soup  (a  la  Julienne),  ^ 

6  lbs.  of  lean  beef.  The  shin  is  a  good  piece  for  this  pur- 
pose. SJAve  the  bones  well  cracked,  carefully  extracting 
the  marrow,  every  bit  of  which  should  be  put  into  the 
soup. 

6  qts.  of  water. 

The  stock  must  be  prepared  the  day  before  the  soup  is 
needed.  Put  the  beef,  bones  and  all,  with  the  water  in  a 
close  vessel,  and  set  it  where  it  will  heat  gradually.  Let  it 
boil  very  slowly  for  six  hours  at  least,  only  uncovering  the 
pot  once  in  a  great  while  to  see  if  there  is  danger  of  the 
water  sinking  too  rapidly.  Should  this  be  the  case,  replen- 
ish with  boiling  water,  taking  care  not  to  put  in  too  much. 
During  the  seventh  hour,  take  off  the  soup  and  set  it  away, 
still  closely  covered,  until  next  morning.  About  an  hour 
before  dinner,  take  out  the  meat,  which  you  can  use  for 
mince-meat,  if  you  wish ;  remove  the  cake  of  fat  from  the 
surfiu»  of  the  stock,  set  the  soup  over  the  fire,  and  throw  in 
a  little  salt  to  bring  up  the  scum.  When  this  has  been 
skimmed  carefully  off,  put  in  your  vegetables.    These  should 

be: — 

2  carrots. 

3  turnips. 

Half  a  head  of  white  cabbage. 

1  pt.  green  com — or  dried  Shaker  com,  soaked 

over  night. 
1  head  celery. 
1  qt.  tomatoes. 


3G  CX)MMON   8EN8E. 

These  should  be  prepared  for  the  soup  by  slicmg  them 
very  small,  and  stewing  them  in  bai-ely  enough  water  to 
cover  them,  until  they  break  to  pieces.  Cook  the  cabbage 
by  itself  in  two  waters — throwing  the  first  away.  The  only 
exception  to  the  general  dissolution,  is  in  the  case  of  a  single 
carrot,  which  should  likewise  be  cooked  alone  and  whole, 
until  thoroughly  done,  and  set  aside  to  cool,  when  the  rest 
of  the  vegetables,  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled, 
are  added  to  the  soup.  Return  the  pot  to  the  fire  with  the 
vegetables  and  stock,  and  boil  slowly  for  half  an  hour  from 
the  time  ebullition  actually  begins.  Strain  without  pressing, 
only  shaking  and  lightly  stirring  the  contents  of  the  cul- 
lender. The  vegetables  having  been  added  with  all  their 
juices  already  cooked,  much  boiling  and  squeezing  ai^  not 
needed,  and  only  make  the  soup  cloudy.  Cut  the  reserved 
carrot  into  dice  and  drop  into  the  clear  liquor  after  it  is  in 
the  tm-een, — also,  if  you  like,  a  handful  of  vermicelli,  or 
macaroni  wliich  has  been  boiled  tender  in  clear  water. 

The  seasoning  of  this  excellent  soup  is  a  matter  of  taste. 
Some  use  only  salt  and  white  pepper.  Others  like  with 
this  a  few  blades  of  mace,  and  boil  in  the  stock  a  handful 
of  sweet  herbs.  And  others  fancy  that,  in  addition  to 
these,  a  glass  of  brown  sherry  imparts  a  flavor  that  renders 
it  peculiarly  acceptable  to  most  palates.  Send  to  table  very 
hot,  and  have  the  soup-plates  likewise  heated. 

Veal  Soup  with  Macaroni.  •!• 

3  lbs.  of  veal  knuckle  or  scrag,  with  the  bones 

broken  and  meat  cut  up. 
3  qts.  water. 
^  lb.  Italian  macaroni. 

Boil  the  meat  alone  in  the  water  for  nearly  three  hours, 
until  it  is  reduced  to  shreds ;  and  the  macaroni  until  ten- 


HEAT  SOUPS.  37 

der,  in  enough  water  to  cover  it,  in  a  vessel  by  itself.  The 
pieces  should  not  be  more  than  an  inch  in  length.  Add  a 
little  butter  to  the  macaroni  when  nearly  done.  Strain  the 
meat  out  of  the  soup,  season  to  your  taste,  put  in  the  ma- 
caroni, and  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled ;  let  it  boil  up, 
and  serve. 

You  can  make  macaroni  soup  of  this  by  boiling  a  pound, 
instead  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound,  in  the  second  vessel,  and 
adding  the  above  quantity  of  veal  broth.  In  this  case,  send 
on  with  it  a  plate  of  grated  cheese,  that  those  who  cannot 
relish  macaroni  without  this  accompaniment  may  put  it 
into  their  soup.  Take  cai-e  that  the  macaroni  is  of  uniform 
length,  not  too  long,  and  that  it  does  not  break  while  stew- 
ing. Add  butter  in  proportion  to  the  increased  quantity  of 
macaroni 

Beef  Soup  {broum), 

3  lbs.  beef  cut  into  strips. 
3  onions. 
3  qts.  water. 

Put  beef  and  water  into  the  saucepan  and  boil  for  one 
hour.  Meanwhile,  slice  the  onions  and  fry  them  in  butter 
to  a  light  brown.  Drop  into  the  pot  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  half  as  much  pepper,  same  quantity  of  mace  as  pep- 
per, a  pinch  of  allspice,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  celery, 
if  you  cannot  get  a  head  of  fresh  celery ;  also  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  powdered  savory  or  sweet  marjoram,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Stew  all  for  two  hours 
more,  or  until  the  beef  has  boiled  to  pieces.  Strain  the 
soup  and  return  to  the  fire.  Salt  to  taste,  and  just  before 
taking  it  off,  pour  in  a  glass  of  brown  sherry  or  Madeira 
wine. 


38  OOMMOK  SEirSE. 

Mutton  or  Lamb  Broth.  •{« 

4  lbs.  mutton  or  lamb^^n — cut  into  small  pieces: 
1  gallon  water. 
^  teacupful  rice. 

Boil  the  unsalted  meat  for  two  hours,  slowly,  in  a  covered 
vessel.  Soak  the  rice  in  enough  wann  water  to  cover  it^ 
and  at  the  end  of  this  time  add  it,  water  and  all,  to  the  boil- 
ing soup.  Cook  an  hour  longer,  stirring  watchfully  from 
time  to  time,  lest  the  rice  should  settle  and  adhere  to  the 
bottom  of  the  pot.  Beat  an  egg  to  a  froth  and  stir  into  a 
cup  of  cold  milk,  into  which  has  been  rubbed  smoothly  a 
tablespoonful  rice  or  wheat  flour.  Mix  with  this,  a  little  at 
at  a  time,  some  of  the  scalding  liquor,  until  the  egg  is  so  far 
cooked  that  there  is  no  danger  of  curdling  in  the  soup. 
Pour  into  the  pot,  when  you  have  taken  out  the  meat, 
season  with  parsley,  thyme,  pepper,  and  salt.  Boil  up  fedrly, 
and  serve.     If  allowed  to  stand  on  the  fire,  it  is  apt  to  bum. 

This  soup  may  be  made  from  the  liquor  in  which  a  leg 
of  mutton  has  been  boiled,  provided  too  much  salt  was  not 
put  in  with  it.  It  is  especially  good  when  the  stock  is 
chicken  broth.  For  the  sick  it  is  palatable  and  nutritious 
with  the  rice  left  in.  When  strained  it  makes  a  nice  white 
table  soup,  and  is  usually  relished  by  all. 

Vermicelli  Soup.  •!• 

4  lbs.  lamb,  from  which  every  particle  of  fat  has 

been  removed. 
1  lb.  veal. 
A  slice  of  corned  ham. 

5  qts.  water. 

Cut  up  the  meat,  cover  it  with  a  quart  of  water,  and 
set  it  back  on  the  range  to  heat  very  gradually,  keeping  it 
covered  closely.     At  the  end  of  an  hour,  add  four  quarts 


ICEAT  SOUPS.  89 

boiling  water,  and  cook  xintil  the  meat  is  in  shreds.  Season 
with  salt,  sweet  herbs,  a  chopped  shallot,  two  teaspoonfuls 
Worcestershire  sauce,  and  when  these  have  boiled  in  the 
soup  for  ten  minutes,  strain  and  return  to  the  fire.  Have 
ready  about  a  third  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli  (or  macaroni), 
which  has  been  boiled  tender  in  clear  water.  Add  this ; 
boil  up  once,  and  pour  out. 

In  all  receipts  in  which  ham  is  mentioned  as  seasoning, 
reference  is  made  to  comedy  not  smoked  pork.  The  smoke 
imparts  an  undisguisable,  and,  to  many,  an  unpleasant 
flavor,  especially  to  delicate  soups  and  ragouts. 

MOCK-TUBTLE   OR  CALF'S   HeAD   SoUP.    4* 

1  large  calf's  head,  well  cleaned  and  washed. 
4  pig's  feet,  «         **         "        « 

This  soup  should  always  be  prepared  the  day  before  it 
is  to  be  served  up.  Lay  the  head  and  feet  in  the  bottom  of 
a  large  pot,  and  cover  with  a  gallon  of  water.  Let  it  boil 
three  hours,  or  tmtil  the  flesh  will  slip  easily  from  the 
bones.  Take  out  the  head,  leaving  in  the  feet,  and  allow 
these  to  boil  steadily  while  you  cut  the  meat  from  the 
head.  Select  with  care  enough  of  the  fatty  portions  which 
lie  on  the  top  of  the  head  and  the  cheeks  to  fill  a  tea-cup, 
and  set  them  aside  to  cool.  Eemove  the  brains  to  a  saucer 
and  also  set  aside.  Chop  the  rest  of  the  meat  with  the 
tongue  very  fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  powdered  mar- 
joram and  thyme,  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  the  same  of  mace, 
half  as  much  allspice,  and  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  return  to 
the  pot.  When  the  flesh  falls  from  the  bones  of  the  pig's 
feet,  take  out  the  latter,  leaving  in  the  gelatinous  meat. 
TiCt  all  boil  together  slowly,  without  removing  the  cover, 
for  two  hours  more ;  take  the  soup  from  the  fire  and  set  it 
away  until  the  next  day.     An  hour  before  dinner,  set  on 


lO  COMMON   SENSE. 

the  stock  to  warm.  When  it  boils  strain  carefully,  and 
drop  in  the  meat  you  have  reserved,  which,  when  cold, 
should  be  cut  into  small  squaras.  Have  these  all  ready  as 
well  as  the  force-meat  balls.  To  pi'epare  these,  rub  the 
yolks  of  five  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  paste  in  a  Wedgewood 
mortar,  or  in  a  bowl,  with  the  back  of  a  silver  tablespoon, 
adding  gradually  the  brains  to  moisten  them,  also  a  little 
butter  and  salt.  Mix  with  these  two  eggs  beaten  very 
light,  flour  your  hands,  and  make  this  paste  into  balls  about 
the  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg.  Throw  them  into  the  soup  five 
minutes  before  you  take  it  off  the  ^re ;  stir  in  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  nibbed  smooth  in  a  little 
cold  water,  let  it  boil  up,  and  finish  the  seasoning  by  the 
addition  of  a  glass  and  a  half  of  good  wine — sherry  or  Ma- 
deira— and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  It  should  not  boil  more 
than  half  an  hour  on  the  second  day.  Serve  with  sliced 
lemon.  Some  lay  the  slices  upon  the  top  of  the  soup, 
but  the  better  plan  is  ta  pass  to  the  guests  a  small  dish 
containing  these. 

This  has  been  well  called  the  "  king  of  soups,''  and  is 
actually  more  delicious  than  the  real  turtle  soup.  It  is 
hoped  no  one  will  be  afraid  to  undertake  the  preparation 
of  it  on  account  of  the  apparently  tedious  and  delicate  mode 
I  have  describe<l.  If  the  directions  be  closely  followed,  the 
result  is  sure  to  be  satisfactory,  and  the  task  is  really  much 
less  troublesome  than  it  appears  to  be. 

GiBLET  Soup. 

Feet,  neck,  pinions,  and  giblets  of  three  chickens, 

or  of  two  ducks  or  two  geese. 
1^  lb.  veal. 
^  lb.  ham. 
3  qts.  water. 

Crack  the  bones  into  small  pieces,  chop  the  giblets  (not 


MEAT   B0UP8.  41 

very  fine)  and  cut  the  meat  into  strips.  Put  all  together 
over  the  fire,  "with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  and  a  pinch  of 
allspice.  Stew  slowly  for  two  hours.  Pick  out  the  giblets 
with  a  skimmer  or  fork,  and  set  them  aside  in  a  pan  where 
they  will  keep  warm.  Take  up  a  teacupful  of  the  hot  soup, 
and  stir  into  this  a  large  tablespoonful  of  flour  which  has  been 
wet  with  cold  water  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste ;  then, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Ketum  to  the  p6t  and  boil 
for  fifteen  minutes ;  season  at  the  last  with  a  glass  of  brown 
sherry  and  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  or  walnut  catsup.  A 
little  Worcestershire  sauce  is  an  improvement.  Finally, 
add  the  giblets,  and  serve. 

Browh  Gravy  Soup. 

3  lbs.  beef. 

1  carrot. 

1  turnip. 

1  head  of  celery. 

6  onions,  if  small  button-onions — 2,  if  large. 

3^  qts.  water. 

Have  ready  some  nice  dripping  in  a  fiying-pan.  Slice 
the  onions  and  fry  them  brown.  Take  them  out  and  set 
them  by  in  a  covered  pan  to  keep  warm.  Cut  the  beef  into 
bits  an  inch  long  and  half  an  inch  thick,  and  fry  them  brown 
also,  turning  frequently  lest  they  should  bum.  Chop  the 
vegetables  and  put  them  with  the  meat  and  onions  into  a 
covered  pot.  Pour  on  the  water  and  let  all  stew  together 
for  two  hours.  Then  throw  in  salt  and  pepper  and  boil  one 
hour  longer,  skimming  very  carefully.  Strain ;  put  back 
over  the  fire ;  boil  up  once  more  to  make  the  liquid  per- 
fectly clear,  skim,  and  add  a  handful  of  vermicelli  that  has 
been  boiled  separately  and  drained  dty.  The  safest  plan  is 
to  put  in  the  vermicelli  after  the  soup  is  poured  into  the 


4:2  COMMON  BENBH;. 

tureen.  Do  not  stir  before  it  goes  to  table.  The  contents 
of  the  tureen  should  be  clear  as  amber.  Some  add  half  a 
glass  of  pale  sherry.  This  is  a  fine  show  soup,  and  very 
popular. 

Ybal  A2n>  Sago  Soup. 

2^  lbs.  veal. 
}  lb.  pearl  sago. 
1  pt.  milk. 
4  eggs. 
3  qts.  water. 

Put  on  the  veal  and  water — the  meat  chopped  finely — 
and  boil  for  two  hours  until  the  liquid  is  reduced  to  about 
one-half  the  original  quantity.  Strain  out  the  shreds  of 
meat  through  a  coarse  cloth,  and  put  the  soup  again  over 
the  fire.  Meanwhile  the  sago  should  be  washed  in  several 
waters,  and  soaked  half  an  hour  in  warm  water  enough  to 
cover  it.  Stir  it  into  the  strained  broth  and  boil — stirring 
very  often  to  prevent  lumping  or  scorching — ^half  an  hour 
more.  Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling ;  beat  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  very  Ught;  mix  with  the  milk  g«duaUy,«ain 
making  boiled  custard,  and  pour — stirring  all  the  while — 
into  the  soup.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  boil  up  once 
to  cook  the  eggs,  and  serve.  Should  the  liquid  be  too  thick 
after  putting  in  the  sago,  replenish  with  boiling  water.  It 
should  be  about  the  consistency  of  hot  custard. 

This  soup  is  very  good,  if  chicken  broth  be  substituted 
for  the  veal.  It  is  very  strengthening  to  invalids,  and  es* 
pecially  beneficial  to  those  suffering  with  colds  or  pulmonary 
affections. 

Chicken  Soup,  t^t 

2  young  fowls,  or  one  full-grown. 

^  lb.  ham. 

1  gallon  of  water. 


MEAT  SOUPS.  43 

Out  the  fowls  into  pieces  as  for  fiicassee.  Put  these 
with  the  ham  into  the  pot  with  a  quart  of  water,  or  enough 
to  cover  them  fairly.  Stew  for  an  hour,  if  the  fowls  are 
tender ;  if  tough,  until  you  can  cut  easily  into  the  breast. 
Take  out  the  breasts,  leaying  the  rest  of  the  meat  in  the 
pot,  and  add  the  remainder  of  the  water — ^boiling  hot.  Keep 
the  soup  stewing  slowly  while  you  chop  up  the  white  meat 
you  have  selected.  Rub  the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs 
smooth  in  a  mortar  or  bowl,  moistening  to  a  paste  with  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  the  soup.  Mix  with  these  a  handful  of 
fine  bread-crumbs  and  the  chopped  meat,  and  make  it  into 
small  balls.  When  the  soup  has  boiled,  in  all,  two  hours 
and  a  half,  if  the  chicken  be  reduced  to  shreds,  strain  out 
the  meat  and  bones.  Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper, 
with  a  bunch  of  chopped  parsley.  Drop  in  the  prepared 
force-meat,  and  after  boiling  ten  minutes  to  incor{>orate  the 
ingredients  well,  add,  a  little  at  a  time,  a  pint  of  rich  milk 
thickened  with  flour.     Boil  up  once  and  serve. 

A  chicken  at  least  a  year  old  would  make  better  soup 
than  a  younger  fowl. 

Venison  Soup.  ^J 

3  lbs.  of  venison.     What  are  considered  the  in- 
ferior pieces  will  do. 
1  lb.  ham  or  salt  pork. 
1  onion. 
1  head  of  celery. 

Cut  up  the  meat ;  chop  the  vegetables,  and  put  on  with 
just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  keeping  on  the  lid  of  the 
pot  all  the  while,  and  stew  slowly  for  one  hour.  Then  add 
two  quarts  of  boUing  water,  with  a  few  blades  of  mace 
and  a  dozen  whole,  peppers.  Or,  should  you  prefer,  a  little 
cayenne.  Boil  two  hours  longer,  salt,  and  strain.  Return 
the  liquor  to  the  pot;  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter; 


44  COMMON   BENBE. 

thicken  with  a  tablespoonfiil  of  browned  flour  wet  into  a 
smooth  thin  paste  with  cold  water;  add  a  tablespoonfiil 
walnut  or  mushroom  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcester- 
shire or  other  pungent  sauce,  and  a  generous  glass  of  Ma- 
deira or  brown  sherry. 

Hare  or  Rabbit  Soup. 

Dissect  the  rabbit,  crack  the  bones,  and  prepare  precisely 
as  you  would  the  venison  soup,  only  putting  in  three  small 
onions  instead  of  one,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Hares 
which  are  too  tough  to  be  cooked  in  any  other  way,  make 
excellent  game  soup.  Also,  the  large  gray  squirrel  of  the 
Middle  and  Southern  States. 

I  have  eaten  squirrel  soup  that  was  really  delicious, 

Ox-Tail  Soup. 

1  ox-tail. 

2  lbs.  lean  beef. 
4  carrots. 

3  onions. 
Thyme. 

Cut  the  tail  into  several  pieces  and  fry  brown  in  butter. 
Slice  the  onions  and  carrots,  and  when  you  remove  the  ox- 
tail from  the  frying-pan,  put  in  these  and  brown  also. 
When  done,  tie  them  in  a  bag  with  a  bunch  of  thyme  and 
drop  into  the  soup-pot.  Lay  the  pieces  of  ox-tail  in  the 
same;  then  the  meat  cut  into  small  slices.  Grate  over 
them  the  two  whole  carrots,  and  add  four  quarts  of  cold 
water,  with  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  from  four  to  six  hours, 
in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  tail.  Strain  fifteen  minutes 
before  serving  it,  and  thicken  with  two  tablespoon fuls  of 
browned  flour.     Boil  ten  minutes  longer. 


FI8U   SOUPS.  45 

FISH  SOUPS. 

Oyster  Soup  (No.  1).  4^ 

2  qta.  of  oysters. 

1  qt.  of  milk. 

2  tablespoonfals  butter. 
1  teacupful  water. 

Strain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  add  to  it  the  water, 
and  set  it  over  the  fire  to  heat  slowly  in  a  covered  vessel. 
When  it  is  near  boiling,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
stir  in  the  milk,  after  which  stir  constantly,  unless,  as  is 
wisest,  you  heat  the  liquor  in  a  vessel  set  in  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water.  When  the  soup  again  nears  the  boiling-point, 
add  the  oysters,  and  let  them  stew  until  they  "  ruffle  "  on 
the  edge.  This  will  be  in  about  five  minutes.  Then  put  in 
the  butter  and  stir  well  until  it  is  melted,  when  the  soup  is 
ready  for  use. 

Serve  with  sliced  lemon  and  oyster  or  cream  crackers. 
Some  use  mace  and  nutmeg  in  seasoning.  The  crowning 
excellence  in  oyster  soup  is  to  have  it  cooked  just  enough. 
Too  much  stewing  ruins  the  bivalves,  while  an  underdone 
oyster  is  a  fiabby  abomination.  The  plumpness  of  the  main 
body  and  ruffled  edge  are  good  indices  of  their  right  con- 
dition. 

Oyster  Soup  (No.  2). 

2  qts.  of  oysters. 

2  eggs. 

1  qt.  milk. 

1  teacupful  of  water. 

Strain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  into  a  saucepan,  pour 
in  with  it  the  water.  Season  with  cayenne  pepper  and  a  lit- 
tle salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  mingled  nutmeg,  mace,  and  cloves. 


46  COMMON  BENBE. 

When  the  liquor  is  ahnost  boiling}  add  half  the  oysters 
chopped  finely  and  boil  five  minutes  quite  briskly.  Strain 
the  soup  and  return  to  saucepan  with  the  milk.  Ha  ve  ready 
some  force-meat  balls,  not  larger  than  marbles,  made  of  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  boiled  hard  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  a  little  butter,  then  mixed  with  six  raw  oysters  chop- 
ped very  finely,  a  little  salt,  and  a  raw  egg  well  beaten,  to  bind 
the  ingredients  together.  Flour  your  hands  well  and  roll  the 
force-meat  into  pellets,  laying  them  upon  a  cold  plate,  so  as 
not  to  touch  one  another,  until  needed.  Then  put  the  re- 
served whole  oysters  into  the  hot  soup,  and  when  it  begins  to 
boil  again,  drop  in  the  force-meat  marbles.  Boil  until  the 
oysters  "  ruffle,"  by  which  time  the  balls  will  also  be  done. 

Serve  with  sliced  lemon  and  crackers.  A  liberal  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  stiired  in  gently  at  the  last  is  an  im- 
provement. 

Clam  Soup. 

50  clams. 
1  qt.  milk. 

1  pint  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

If  you  cannot  buy  the  clams  already  opened,  put  them  in 
a  large  pan  or  tray,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them.  This 
will  open  the  shells.  Take  them  out  as  fast  as  they  unclose, 
that  you  may  save  all  the  liquor  they  contain.  Drain  off  this 
and  put  it  over  the  fire  with  a  dozen  whole  peppers,  a  few 
bits  of  cayenne  pods,  haJf  a  dozen  blades  of  mace,  and  salt  to 
taste.  Let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  put  in  the  clams  and 
boil  half  an  hour  quite  fast,'kee^pg  the  pot  closely  covered. 
If  you  dislike  to  see  the  whole  spices  in  the  tureen,  strain 
them  out  before  the  clams  are  added.  At  the  end  of  the 
half  hour  add  the  milk,  which  has  been  heated  to  scalding, 
not  boiling,  in  another  vessel.  Boil  up  again,  taking  care 
the  soup  does  not  bum,  and  put  in  tlie  butter.     Then  serve 


FISH  SOUPS.  47 

witihout  delay.  If  you  desire  a  thicker  soup^  stir  a  heaping 
tsJblespoonful  of  rice-flour  into  a  little  cold  milk,  and  put  in 
with  the  quart  of  hot. 

Oat-fish  Soup.  *{< 

Few  persons  are  aware  into  what  a  variety  of  tempting 
dishes  this  much-abused  fish  can  be  made.  Those  who 
have  only  seen  the  bloated^  unsightly  creatures  that  play 
the  scavengers  about  city  wharves,  are  excusable  for  enter- 
taining a  prejudice  against  them  as  an  article  of  food.  .  But 
the  small  cat-fish  of  our  inland  lakes  and  streams  are  alto- 
gether respectable,  except  in  their  unfortunate  name. 

6  cat-fish,  in  average  weight  half  a  pound  apiece. 
^  lb.  salt  pork. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  head  of  celery,  or  a  small  bag  of  celery-seed. 

Skin  and  clean  the  fish  and  cut  them  up.  Chop  the 
pork  into  small  pieces.  Put  these  together  into  the  pot, 
with  two  quarts  of  water,  chopped  sweet  herbs,  and  the 
celery  seasoning.  Boil  for  an  hour,  or  until  fish  and  pork 
are  in  rags,  and  strain,  if  you  desire  a  regular  soup  for  a 
first  course.  Ketum  to  the  saucepan  and  add  the  milk, 
which  should  be  already  hot.  Kext  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
froth,  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  up 
once,  and  serve  with  dice  of  toasted  bread  on  the  top. 
Pass  sliced  lemon,  or  walnut  or  butternut  pickles  with  it. 

Eel  Soup. 

Eel  soup  is  made  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  cat- 
fish, only  boiled  longer.  A  chopped  onion  is  no  detriment 
to  the  flavor  of  either,  and  will  remove  the  muddy  taste 
which  these  fish  sometimes  acquire  from  turbid  streams. 


48  COMMON  SENSE. 

Lobster  Soup. 

2  qts.  veal  or  chicken  broth,  well  strained. 

1  large  lobster. 

2  eggs — boiled  hard. 

Boil  the  lobster  and  extract  the  meat,  setting  aside  the 
coitJ  in  a  cool  place.  Cut  or  chop  up  the  meat  found  in 
the  claws.  Kub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  paste  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter.  Pound  and  rub  the  claw-meat  in 
tlie  same  manner,  and  mix  with  the  yolks.  Beat  up  a  raw 
egg,  and  stir  into  the  paste ;  season  with  i)epper,  salt,  and, 
if  you  like,  mace ;  make  into  force-meat  balls,  and  set  away 
with  the  coral  to  cool  and  harden.  By  this  time  the  stock 
should  be  well  heated,  when  j)ut  in  the  rest  of  the  lobster- 
meat  cut  into  squai'e  bits.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  which  time 
employ  in  pounding  the  coral  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  or 
earthenware  bowl,  rubbing  it  into  a  fine,  even  paste,  with 
the  addition  of  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  broth,  gradually 
worked  in  until  it  is  about  the  consistency  of  boiled  starch. 
Stir  veri/  carefully  into  the  hot  soup,  which  should,  in  the 
process,  blush  into  a  roseate  hue.  Lastly,  di*op  in  the 
force-meat  balls,  after  which  do  not  stir,  lest  they  should 
break.  Simmer  a  few  minutes  to  cook  the  raw  egg ;  but, 
if  allowed  to  boil,  the  soup  will  darken. 

Crab  soup  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  excepting  the 
coralline  process,  crabs  being  destitute  of  that  dainty. 

Green  Turtle  Soup. 

A  glass  of  Madeii^ 
2  onions. 

Bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 
Juice  of  one  lemon« 
5  qts.  of  water. 


FISH   SOUPS.  49 

Chop  up  the  coarser  parts  of  the  turtle-meat,  with  the 
entrails  and  bones.  Add  to  them  four  quarts  of  water,  and 
stew  four  hours  with  the  herbs,  onions,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Stew  very  slowly,  but  do  not  let  it  cease  to  boil  during  this 
time.  At  the  end  of  four  hours  strain  the  soup,  and  add 
the  finer  parts  of  the  turtle  ajid  the  green  fat,  which  has 
been  simmered  for  one  hour  in  two  quarts  of  water. 
Thicken  with  broWned  flour ;  return  to  the  soup-pot,  and 
simmer  gently  an  hour  longer.  If  there  are  eggs  in  the 
turtle,  boil  them  in  a  separate  vessel  for  four  hours,  and 
throw  into  the  soup  before  taking  it  up.  If  not,  put  in 
force-meat  balls ;  then  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  the  wine ; 
beat  up  once  and  pour  out.  Some  cooks  add  the  finer 
meat  before  straining,  boiling  all  together  ^ve  hours ;  then 
strain,  thicken,  and  put  in  the  green  fat,  cut  into  lumps  an 
inch  long.  This  makes  a  handsomer  soup  than  if  the  meat 
is  left  in. 

For  the  mock  eggs,  take  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  one  raw  egg  well  beaten.  Eub  the  boiled  eggs  into  a 
paste  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  bind  with  the  raw  egg, 
roll  into  pellets  the  si2e  and  shape  of  turtle-eggs,  and  lay  in 
boiling  water  for  two  minutes  before  dropping  into  the 

soup. 

JForce-meat  halls  for  tlie  above. 

Six  tablespooufuls  turtle-meat  chopped  very  fine.  Rub 
to  a  paste  with  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs ;  table- 
B|)oonful  of  butter,  and,  if  convenient,  a  little  oyster-liquor. 
Season  with  cayenne,  mace,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  white 
sugar.  Bind  with  a  well-beaten  egg;  shape  into  balls; 
dip  in  egg,  then  powdered  cracker,  fry  in  butter,  and  drop 
into  the  soup  when  it  is  served. 

Mock  turtle  for  soups  is  now  within  the  reach  of  every 
])rivate  family,  being  well  preserved  in  air-tight  cans. 


50  COMMON   SENSE. 

FISH. 

Boiled  Codfish.     (Presh.)  •{« 

Lay  the  fish  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted,  for  half  an 
hour  before  it  is  time  to  cook  it.  Wipe  it  dry  and  put  it 
into  the  fish-kettle  with  water  enough  to  cover  it,  in  which 
has  been  dissolved  a  little  salt.  Let  it  boil  quite  bnskly. 
A  piece  of  cod  weighing  three  pounds  will  be  cooked  in  half 
an  hour  from  the  time  the  water  fsdrly  boils,  if  put  in  without 
a  cloth.  But  by  far  the  better  plan  is,  when  the  cod  has 
been  wiped  free  of  the  salt  and  water,  to  wrap  it  in  a  clean 
linen  cloth  kept  for  such  purposes.  The  cloth  should  be 
dredged  with  flour,  to  prevent  sticking.  Sew  up  the  edges  in 
such  a  manner  as  to  envelop  the  fish  entirely,  yet  have  but 
one  thickness  of  the  cloth  over  any  part.  The  wrapping 
should  be  fitted  neatly  to  the  shape  of  the  piece  to  be  cook- 
ed. Fish  cooked  thus  will  require  twice  as  long  to  boil  as 
when  put  into  the  water  without  such  protection ;  but  the 
flavor  is  better  preserved,  and  when  unwrapped,  it  will  not 
present  the  sodden  appearance  and  crumbling  grain  that 
disfigure  most  boiled  fish. 

Have  ready  a  sauce  prepai*ed  thus : — 

To  one  gill  boiling  water  add  as  much  milk,  and  when  it  is 
scalding-hot,  stir  in — Cleaving  the  sauce-pan  on  the  fire — ^two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  little  at  a  time,  that  it  may  melt 
without  oiling,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  previously  wet  with 
cold  water,  and,  as  this  thickens,  two  beaten  eggs.  Season 
with  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  and  when,  after  one  good  boil, 
you  withdraw  it  from  the  fire,  add  a  dozen  capers,  or  pickled 
nasturtiimi  seeds,  or,  if  you  prefer,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar  in 
which  celery-seeds  have  been  steeped.  Put  the  fish  into  a 
hot  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it.  Some  serve  in  a  but- 
ter-boat ;  but  I  fancy  that  the  boiling  sauce  applied  to  the 
steaming  fish  impart ^  a  richness  it  cannot  gain  later.     Gar- 


FISH.  51 

nish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  circles  of  hard-boiled  eggs, 
laid  around  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

KOCKFISH. 

Rockfish  and  river-bass  are  very  nice^  cooked  as  above, 
but  do  not  need  to  bo  boiled  so  long  as  cod£sh. 

Boiled  Codfish.     {Salt,) 

Put  the  fish  to  soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  water — as 
early  as  eight  o^clock  in  the  evening.  Change  this  for  more 
warm  water  at  bed-time  and  cover  closely.  Change  again 
in  the  morning  and  wash  off  the  salt.  Two  hours  before 
dinner  take  out  the  cod,  examine  to  see  that  no  crystals  of 
salt  adhere  to  the  under  part,  and  plunge  into  verj/  cold 
water.  This  makes  it  firm.  Finally,  set  over  the  fire  with 
enough  lukewarm  water  to  cover  it,  and  boil  for  half  an 
hour.  Drain  well ;  lay  it  in  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  it 
egg-sauce  prepared  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  only  substi- 
tuting the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  rubbed  to  a  paste 
with  butter,  for  the  beaten  raw  egg. 

This  is  a  useful  receipt  for  country  housekeepers  who 
can  seldom  procure  fresh  cod.  Salt  mackerel,  prepared  in 
the  same  way,  will  well  repay  the  care  and  time  required, 
so  superior  is  it  to  the  Friday's  dish  of  salt  fish,  as  usually 
served. 

Should  the  cold  fish  left  over  be  used  for  fish-balls — as 
it  should  be — it  will  be  found  that  the  sauce  which  has 
soaked  into  it  while  hot  has  greatly  improved  it. 

Codfish  Balls.  *^ 

Prepare  the  fish  precisely  as  for  boiling  whole.  Cut  in 
pieces  when  it  has  been  duly  washed  and  soaked,  and  boD 
twenty  minutes.     Turn  off  the  water,  and  cover  with  fresh 


52  CX)MMON   SENSE. 

from  the  boiling  tea-kettle.  Boil  twenty  minutes  more ; 
drain  the '  fish  very  dry,  and  spread  upon  a  dish  to  cool. 
When  perfectly  cold,  pick  to  pieces  with  a  fork,  removing 
every  vestige  of  skin  and  bone,  and  shredding  very  fine. 
When  this  is  done,  add  an  equal  bulk  of  mashed  potato  ; 
work  into  a  stiff  batter  by  adding  a  lump  of  butter  and 
sweet  milk,  and  if  you  want  to  have  them  very  nice,  a  beat- 
en egg.  Flour  your  hands  and  make  the  mixture  into  balls 
or  cakes.  Drop  them  into  boiling  lard  or  good  dripping, 
and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Plainer  fish-cakes  may  be  made 
of  the  cod  and  potatoes  alone,  moulded  round  like  biscuit. 
In  any  shape  Uie  dish  is  popular. 

It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  recommend  the  desiccated 
cod-fish  put  up  in  boxes  by  the  Boston  and  Philadelphia 
Salt  Fish  Company.  The  fish  is  already  cooked  and  shred, 
and  the  housekeeper  is  thus  saved  the  only  disagreeable 
part  of  the  process  of  making  this  delightful  breakfast 
relish — the  boiling  and  the  unsavory  odor  arising  therefrom, 
as  well  as  the  care  of  soaking  and  picking  out  the  fish.  The 
balls  prepared  from  the  desiccated  fish  are  every  whit  equal 
in  flavor  to  those  made  of  the  home-cooked,  and  can  be 
ready  at  half-an-hour's  notice.  The  cost  is  not  more — per- 
haps less,  than  when  one  buys  the  cod  in  bulk,  bones  and 
all. 

Salt  Codfish  stewed  with  Eggs. 

Prepai-e  the  fish  as  for  balls.  Heat  almost  to  boiling 
a  pint  of  rich,  sweet  milk,  and  stir  into  it,  gradually  and 
carefully,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
a  little  chopped  parsley  and  butter,  with  pepper,  lastly  the 
fish.  Boil  up  once  and  turn  into  a  deep  covered  dish,  or 
chafing-dish  lined  with  buttered  toast.  Eat  hot  for  break- 
fast or  supper. 


Fisn.  53 

Codfish  and  Potato  Stew,  t^ 

Soak,  boil,  and  pick  the  fish,  if  salt,  as  for  fish-balls.  If 
fresh,  boil  and  pick  into  bits.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of 
mashed  potatoes,  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  milk, 
enough  to  make  it  very  soft.  Put  into  a  skillet,  and  add  a 
very  little  boiling  water  to  keep  it  from  burning.  Turn 
and  toss  constantly  until  it  is  smoking  hot  but  not  dry ;  add 
pepper  and  parsley,  and  dish. 

Boiled  Mackerel.  {JFh-esh.)  •{« 

Clean  the  mackerel  and  wipe  carefully  with  a  dry,  clean 
cloth;  wash  them  lightly  with  another  cloth  dipped  in 
vinegar ;  wrap  each  in'a  coarse  linen  cloth  (floured)  basted 
closely  to  the  shape  of  the  fish.  Put  them  into  a  pot  with 
enough  salted  water  to  coyer  them,  and  boil  them  gently  for 
hiEilf  an  hour.  Drain  them  well.  Take  a  teacupful  of  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  and  put  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  walnut  catsup,  some  anchovy  paste 
or  sauce,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Let  this  boil  up 
well  and  add  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  with  a 
tablespoonful  browned  flour  wet  in  cold  water.  Boil  up 
again  and  serve  in  the  sauce-boat.  This  makes  a  brown 
sauce.  You  can  substitute  egg-sauce  if  you  like.  Garnish 
with  parsley  and  nasturtium  blossoms. 

Broiled  Mackerel.  (Fresh.) 

Clean  the  mackerel,  wash,  and  wipe  dry.  Split  it  open, 
so  that  when  laid  flat  the  backbone  will  be  in  the  middle. 
Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt,  and  lay  on  a  buttered  gridiron 
over  a  clear  fire,  with  the  inside  downward,  until  it  begins 
to  brown ;  then  turn  the  other.  When  quite  done,  lay  on 
a  hot  dish  and  butter  it  plentifully.     Turn  another  hot  dish 


54  COMMON  8ENBE. 

over  the  lower  one,  and  let  it  stand  two  or  three  minutes 
before  sending  to  table. 

Broiled  Mackerel.  {Salt.) 

Soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  water.  Change  this  early 
in  the  morning  for  very  cold,  and  let  the  fish  lie  in  this  un- 
til time  to  cook.     Then  proceed  as  with  the  fresh  mackerel. 

Boiled  Halibut,  t^t 

Lay  in  cold  salt  and  water  for  an  hour.  Wipe  dry  and 
score  the  skin  in  squares.  Put  into  the  kettle  with  cold 
salted  water  enough  to  cover  it.  It  is  so  firm  in  texture 
that  you  can  boil  without  a  cloth  if  you  choose.  Let  it  heat 
gradually,  and  boil  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  piece.  Four  or  five  pounds 
will  be  enough  for  most  private  families.  Drain  and  ac- 
company by  egg-sauce — either  poured  over  the  fish,  or  in  a 
sauce-boat. 

Save  the  cold  remnants  of  the  fish  and  what  sauce  is  left 
until  next  morning.  Pick  out  as  you  would  cod,  mix  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  mashed  potato,  moisten  with  the  sauce, 
or  with  milk  and  butter  if  you  have  no  sauce,  put  into  a 
skillet,  and  stir  until  it  is  very  hot.  Do  not  let  it  bum. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Baked  Halibut.  *{< 

Take  a  piece  of  halibut  weighing  five  or  six  pounds, 
and  lay  in  salt  and  water  for  two  hours.  Wipe  dry  and 
score  the  outer  skin.  Set  in  the  baking-pan  in  a  tolerably 
hot  oven,  and  bake  an  hour,  basting  often  with  butter  and 
water  heated  together  in  a  saucepan  or  tin  cup.  When  a 
fork  will  penetrate  it  easily  it  is  done.  It  should  be  of  a  fine 
brown.     Take  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan— add  a  Uttle 


FISH.  Oi) 

boiling  water  Bhould  there  not  be  enough — ^stir  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  walnut  catsup,  a  teaspoonf ul  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  thicken  with  browned  flour 
preriouslj  wet  with  cold  water.  Boil  up  once  and  put  into 
sauce-boat. 

There  is  no  finer  preparation  of  halibut  than  this,  which 
is,  however,  comparatively  little  known.  Those  who  have 
eaten  it  usuallj  prefer  it  to  boiled  and  broiled.  You  can 
use  what  is  left  for  the  same  purpose  as  the  fragments  of 
boiled  halibut. 

ILaxibut  Steak,  t^ 

Wash  and  wipe  the  steaks  dry.  Beat  up  two  or  three 
eggs,  and  roll  out  some  Boston  or  other  brittle  crackers 
upon  the  kneading-board  until  they  are  fine  as  dust.  Dip 
each  steak  into  the  beaten  egg,  then  into  the  bread  crumbs 
(when  you  have  salted  the  fish),  and  fry  in  hot  £ett,  lard,  or 
nice  dripping. 

Or,  you  can  broil  the  steak  upon  a  buttered  gridiron, 
over  a  clear  fire,  first  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  When 
done,  lay  in  a  hot  dish,  butter  well,  and  cover  closely. 

Devilled  Halibut. 

Mince  a  pound  of  cold  boiled  or  baked  halibut,  or  the 
fragments  of  halibut  steak,  and  mix  with  it  the  follow- 
ing dressing :  The  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed 
smooth  with  the  back  of  a  sUver  spoon,  or  in  a  Wedgewood 
mortar,  and  when  there  remain  no  lumps  in  it,  work  into 
a  soft  paste  with  a  tablesjioonful  salad  oil.  Next  beat  in 
two  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  made  mustard, 
a  pinch  of  cayenne,  teaspoonful  salt,  one  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  a  little  anchovy  paste  if  you  have  it,  and  finally, 
a  little  at  a  time  to  prevent  lumping,  a  small  teaeupful  of 
vinegar  in  which  celery-seed  have  been  steeped.     It  is  easy 


56  COMMON   SENSE. 

to  keep  a  bottle  of  this  on  hand  for  salads  and  sauces.  Stir 
all  thoroughly  into  the  minced  fish,  garnish  with  a  chain 
of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  cut  into  rings,  with  a  small  round 
slice  of  pickled  beet  laid  within  each  link,  and  you  have  a 
2nquant  and  pretty  salad  for  the  supper-table. 

Boiled  Salmon.     {Fresh.)  ^ 

"Wrap  the  fish,  when  you  have  washed  and  wiped  it, 
in  a  clean  linen  cloth — not  too  thick — ^baste  it  up  securely, 
and  put  into  the  fish-kettle.  Cover  with  cold  water  in 
which  has  been  melted  a  handful  of  salt.  Boil  slowly,  al- 
lowing about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  each  pound.  When 
the  time  is  up,  rij)  open  a  corner  of  the  cloth  and  test  the 
salmon  with  a  fork.  If  it  penetrate  easily,  it  is  done.  If 
not,  hastily  pin  up  the  cloth  and  cook  a  little  longer.  Skim 
off  the  scum  as  it  rises  to  the  top.  Have  ready  in  another 
sauce-pan  a  pint  of  cream — or  half  milk  and  half  cream  will 
do — which  has  been  heated  in  a  vessel  set  in  boiling  water; 
.stir  into  this  a  large  spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and 
chopped  parsley,  and  a  half-gill  of  the  water  in  which  the 
fish  is  boiled.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  stirring  all  the  while — 
or,  what  is  bettor,  do  not  remove  from  the  inner  vessel. 
When  the  fish  is  done,  take  it  instantly  from  the  kettle, 
lay  it  an  instant  upon  a  folded  cloth  to  absorb  the  drop- 
pings ;  transfer  with  great  care,  for  fear  of  breaking,  to  a 
hot  dish,  and  pour  the  boiled  cream  over  it,  reserving 
enough  to  fill  a  small  sauce-boat.  Garnish  with  curled 
parsley  and  circular  slices  of  hard-boiled  yolks — leaving  out 
the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

After  serving  boiled  salmon  with  cream-sauce,  you  will 
never  be  quite  content  with  any  other.  If  you  cannot  get 
cream,  boil  a  pint  of  milk  and  thicken  with  arrow-root.  It 
is  not  BO  nice,  but  many  will  not  detect  the  difference — real 
cream  being  a  rare  commodity  in  town. 


FISH.  57 

You  may  pickle  what  is  left,  if  it  is  in  one  piece.  Or, 
devil  it,  as  I  have  directed  you  to  treat  cold  halibut.  Or, 
mince,  mix  with  mashed  potato,  milk,  and  butter,  and  stir 
into  a  sort  of  stew.  Or,  once  again,  mix  with  mashed  po- 
tato, milk,  butter,  and  a  raw  egg  well-beaten ;  make  into 
cakes  or  balls,  and  fxy  in  hot  lard  or  dripping.  At  any 
rate,  let  none  of  it  be  lost,  it  being  at  once  one  of  our  most 
expensive  and  most  delicious  fish. 

Baked  Salmon,  t^ 

Wash  and  wipe  dry,  and  rub  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Some  add  a  soupQon  of  cayenne  and  powdei*ed  mace.  Lay 
the  fish  upon  a  grating  set  over  your  baking-pan,  and  roast 
or  bake,  basting  it  freely  with  butter,  and,  toward  the  last, 
with  its  own  drippings  only.  Should  it  brown  too  fast, 
cover  the  top  with  a  sbeet  of  white  paper  until  the  whole 
is  cooked.  When  it  is  done,  transfer  to  a  hot  dish  and 
cover  closely,  and  add  to  the  gravy  a  little  hot  water  thick- 
ened with  arrow-root,  rice,  or  wheat  flour, — wet,  of  course, 
first  with  cold  water, — a  great  spoonful  of  light  tomato  sauce, 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Boil  up  and  serve  in  a  sauce- 
boat,  or  you  can  servp  with  cream  sauce,  made  as  for  boiled 
sahnon.  Garnish  handsomely  with  alternate  sprigs  of  pars- 
Icy  and  the  bleached  tops  of  celery,  with  ruby  bits  of  firm 
currant  jelly  here  and  there.  This  is  a  fine  dish  for  a  din- 
ner-party.    A   glass  of  sherry  improves   the   first-named 

sauce. 

Salmon  Steaks,  t^ 

Dry  well  with  a  cloth,  dredge  with  flour,  and  lay  them 
upon  a  well-buttered  gridiron,  over  clear  hot  coals.  Turn 
with  a  broad-bladed  knife  slipped  beneath,  and  a  flat  wire 
e^-beater  above,  lest  the  steak  should  break.  When  done 
to  a  light  brown,  lay  in  a  hot  dish,  butter  each  steak,  sea- 
soning with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  closely,  and  sei'^'c. 

3* 


58  OOHMON   BEN8E. 

Pickled  Salmon.     (I^esh.)  •{• 

Having  cleaned  your  fish,  cut  into  pieces  of  a  con- 
venient size  to  go  into  the  fish-kettle,  and  boil  in  salted 
water  as  for  the  table.  Drain  it  very  dry,  wipe  it  with  a 
clean  cloth,  and  set  it  aside  until  next  morning. 

Make  pickle  enough  to  cover  it  in  the  following  propor- 
tions :  2  quarts  vinegar,  a  dozen  blades  of  mace,  dozen 
white  peppers,  dozen  cloves,  two  teaspoonfuls  made  mus- 
tard, three  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  the 
water  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled.  Let  them  boil  up  once 
hard,  that  you  may  skim  the  pickle.  Should  the  spices 
come  away  with  the  scum  in  large  quantities,  pick  them 
out  and  return  to  the  kettle.  Set  the  liquor  away  in  an 
earthenware  jar,  closely  covered  to  keep  in  the  flavor. 
Next  morning  hang  it  over  a  brisk  fire  in  a  bell-metal 
kettle  (covered),  and  heat  to  boiling.  Meanwhile,  prepare 
the  salmon  by  cutting  into  pieces  an  inch  and  a  half  long 
and  half  an  inch  wide.  Cut  cleanly  and  regularly  with  a 
sharp  knife.  When  they  are  all  ready,  and  the  liquor  is  on 
the  boil,  drop  them  carefully  into  the  kettle.  Let  the 
pickle  boil  up  once  to  make  sure  the  salmon  is  heated 
through.  Have  ready  some  air-tight  glass  jars,  such  as 
you  use  for  canning  fruit  and  tomatoes.  Take  the  salmon 
from  the  kettle,  while  it  is  still  on  the  stove  or  range,  with 
a  wire  egg-beater,  taking  care  you  do  not  break  the  pieces. 
Drop  them  rapidly  into  the  jar,  packing  closely  as  you  go 
on ;  fill  with  the  boiling  pickle  until  it  overflows,  screw  on 
the  top,  and  set  away  in  a  dark,  cool  place.  Proceed  in 
the  same  way  with  each  can  until  all  are  full.  Salmon 
thus  put  up  will  keep  good  for  j/ears,  as  I  can  testify  from 
experience,  and  will  well  repay  the  trouble  of  preparation. 
You  can  vary  the  seasoning  to  your  taste,  adding  a  shallot 
or  two  minced  very  fine,  some  celery  and  small  pods  of 
cayenne  pepper,  which  always  look  well  in  vinegar. 


I 
I 


Fisn.  59 

Be  sure  that  the  contents  of  the  kettle  are  boiling  when 
transferred  to  the  cans,  that  they  are  not  allowed  time  to 
cool  in  the  transit,  that  the  elastic  on  the  can  is  properly 
adjusted,  and  the  top  screwed  down  tightly,  and  success  is 
certain.  I  would  call  the  attention  of  those  who  are  fond 
of  the  potted  spiced  salmon,  sold  at  a  high  price  in  gro- 
cery-stores, to  this  receipt  for  making  the  same  luxury  at 
home.     It  costs  less  by  one-half,  Ls  as  good,  and  is  always 

on  hand. 

Pickled  Salmon.  {Salt) 

At  certain  seasons  of  the  year  fresh  salmon  cannot  be 
procured,  even  by  thie  dvrollers  in  cities,  while  those  who  live 
in  the  country  sometimes  do  not  see  it  from  one  year's  end 
to  the  other.  But  dried  salmon  can  always  be  had  in  any 
tolerably  well-kept  grocery,  and  a  very  nice  relish  prepared 
from  it. 

Wash  the'  salmon  in  two  or  tliree  waters,  rubbing  it 
lightly  with  a  coarse  cloth  to  remove  the  salt-crystals.  Then 
soak  over  night  in  tepid  water.  Exchange  this  in  the  morn- 
ing for  ice-cold,  and  let  the  fish  lie  in  the  latter  for  three 
hours.  Take  it  out,  wipe  dry,  and  cut  in  strips  as  directed 
in  the  foregoing  receipt.  Drop  these,  when  all  are  ready, 
in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  placed  alongside  of  a  kettle 
of  pickle  prepared  as  for  fresh  salmon.  Beside  these  have 
your  air-tight  jars,  covers  laid  in  readiness,  and  when  the 
salmon  has  boiled  five  minutes — fairly  boiled,  not  simmered 
— fish  out  the  pieces  with  your  wire  spoon,  pack  rapidly 
into  your  can;  fill  up  with  ihe  boiling  pickle  from  the 
other  kettle,  and  seal  instantly.  In  two  days  the  pickled 
salmon  will  be  fit  for  use,  and  is  scarcely  distinguishable 
from  that  made  of  fi*esh  fish.  It  has  the  advantage  of 
being  always  procurable,  and  of  comparative  cheapness,  and 
in  the  countiy  is  a  valuable  stand-by  in  case  of  unexpected 
supper  company. 


60  COMMON  SENSE. 

Smoked  Salmon.   {Broiled,) 

Tako  a  piece  of  raw  smoked  salmon  the  size  of  your 
haod,  or  larger  in  pix)portion  to  the  number  who  are  to  sit 
down  to  supper.  Wash  it  in  two  waters,  rubbing  off  the 
salt.  Lay  in  a  skillet  with  enough  warm — not  hot — water 
to  cover  it;  let  it  simmer  fifteen  minutes,  and  boil  five. 
Remove  it,  wipe  dry,  and  lay  on  a  buttered  gridiron  to  broil. 
Wlien  it  is  nicely  browned  on  both  sides,  transfer  to  a  hot 
dish  ;  butter  liberally,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Garnish  with 
hillocks  of  gi'ated  horse-radish  interspersed  with  sprays  of 
fresh  or  pickled  fennel-seed,  or  with  parsley. 

Eaw  smoked  salmon  is  in  common  use  upon  the  supper- 
table,  cut  into  smooth  strips  as  long  as  the  middle  finger, 
and  rather  wider;  arranged  neatly  upon  a  garnished  dish, 
and  eaten  with  pepper-sauce  or  some  other  pungent  condi- 
ment. 

Boiled  Shad.    {Fresh.)  ^ 

Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  the  fish.  A  voe  shad  is  best  for 
this  purpose.  Cleanse  the  roes  thoroughly,  and  having 
sprinkled  both  shad  and  eggs  with  salt,  wrap  in  separate 
cloths  and  put  into  the  fish-kettle,  side  by  side.  Cover  with 
salted  water,  and  boil  from  half  an  hour  to  three-quarters, 
in  propoi-tion  to  the  size.  Experience  is  the  best  rule  as  to 
the  time.  When  you  have  once  cooked  fish  to  a  turn,  note 
the  weight  and  time,  and  you  will  be  at  no  loss  thereafter. 
A  good  rule  is  to  make  a  pencilled  memorandum  in  the 
margin  of  the  receipt-book  opposite  certain  receipts. 

Serve  the  shad  upon  a  hot  dish,  with  a  boat  of  drawn 
butter  mingled  with  chopped  egg  and  parsley,  or  egg-sauce. 
Lay  the  roes  about  the  body  of  the  fish.  Garnish  with 
capers  and  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 


FISH.  61 

Boiled  Shad.  {Salt) 

In  tliose  States  where  shad  ai-e  plenty  they  are  salted, 
and  used  freely,  as  are  salt  mackerel  elsewhere.  They  form 
a  doKghtful  breakfast-dish,  and  are  welcome  on  the  supper- 
table  on  winter  nights. 

Soak  the  fish  six  or  seven  hours  in  warm  water, 
changing  it  several  times ;  wipe  off  all  the  salt  and  immerse 
in  ice-cold  water.  When  it  has  lain  in  this  an  hour,  put 
into  a  fish-kettle  with  enough  fresh  water  to  cover  it,  and 
boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  in  proportion  to  the 
size.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish,  with  a  large  lump  of  butter 
spi^ead  over  the  fish. 

Broiled  Shad.  {Fresh.)  t^ 

Wash,  wipe,  and  split  the  fish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
jKjpper,  and  lay  it  upon  a  buttered  gridiron,  inside  down- 
ward. When  the  lower  side  is  browned,  turn  the  fish. 
One  of  medium  size  will  be  done  in  about  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  upon  a  hot  dish,  and  lay  a  good  piece  of  butter  upon 

the  fish.  * 

Broiled  Shad.  {Salt.) 

SoaJc  over  night  in  lukewarm  water.  Take  out  in  the 
morning  and  transfer  to  ice-cold  for  half  an  lioui'.  Wipe 
very  dry,  and  broil  as  you  do  fresh  shad. 

Fried  Shad. 

This  is  a  popular  dish  upon  Southern  tables,  and  is  good 
anywhere.  Clean,  waj^h,  and  wipe  a  fine  roe-shad ;  split  and 
cut  each  side  into  four  pieces,  leaving  out  the  head,  and  re- 
moving fins  and  tail.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
dredge  with  flour.  Have  ready  a  frying-pan  of  boiling  hot 
lard  or  drippings ;  put  in  the  fish  and  fry  brown,  turning  at 
the  end  of  five  minutes  to  cook  the  other  side.     Fry  the 


62  CX)MMOK   SENSE. 

roe  in  the  same  way ;  lay  the  fish  in  the  middle  of  the  dish, 
and  the  roe  outside  of  it;  garnish  with  water-cresses  and 
sprigs  of  pickled  cauliflower,  and  eat  with  catsup. 

Baked  Shad.  »|< 

Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  the  flsh,  which  should  be  a  large 
one.  Make  a  stuffing  of  grated  bread-crumbs  steeped  in 
sweet  milk,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  sweet  herbs,  moistened 
with  a  beaten  egg.  Stuff  the  shad  and  sew  it  up.  Lay  it 
in  the  baking-pan,  with  a  cupful  of  water  to  keep  it  from 
burning,  and  bake  an  hour,  basting  with  butter  and  water, 
until  it  is  tender  throughout  and  well  browned.  Take  it 
up,  put  in  a  hot  dish  and  cover  tightly,  while  you  boil  up 
the  gravy  with  a  great  spoonful  of  catsup,  a  tablespoonful 
of  browned  flour  which  has  been  wet  with  cold  water,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and,  if  you  want  to  have  it  very  fine,  a  glass 
of  sherry  or  Madeira.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and 
water-cresses.  You  may  pour  the  gravy  around  the  fish,  or 
serve  in  a  sauce-boat.  Of  course  you  take  out  the  thread 
with  which  it  has  been  sewed  up  before  serving  the  fish. 

Boiled  Sea-Bass. 

Clean  and  put  the  fish  into  the  fish-kettle,  with  salted 
water  enough  to  cover  it  when  you  have  enveloped  it  in 
the  fish-cloth.  A  medium-sized  fish  will  be  done  in  a  little 
over  half  an  hour.  But  do  not  boil  too  fast.  When  done, 
drain  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish.  Lay  sliced  boiled  eggs  upon 
and  about  it,  and  serve  with  egg-sauce,  mingled  with  capers 
or  nasturtium  seed. 

Fried  Sea-Bass. 

Use  smaller  fish  for  this  purpose  than  for  boiling. 
Glean,  wipe  dry,  inside  and  out,  dredge  with  flour  and 
season  with  salt.     Fry  in  hot  butter  or  dripping.     A  ^nix- 


FifiH.  63 

turei  half  butter,  half  lard,  is  good  for  frying  fish.  The  bass 
should  be  done  to  a  delicate  brown — not  to  a  crisp.  The 
fashion  affected  by  some  cooks  of  drying  fried  fish  to  a  crust 
is  simply  abominable. 

Fried  bass  are  a  most  acceptable  breakfast  dish. 

Sturgeon  Steak. 

Skin  the  steaks  carefully  and  lay  in  salted  water  (cold) 
for  an  hour,  to  remove  the  oily  taste,  so  ofifensive  to  most 
palates.  Then  wipe  each  steak  dry,  salt,  and  broil  over  hot 
coals  on  a  buttered  gridiron.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish  when 
you  have  buttered  and  peppered  them,  and  send  up  gar- 
nished with  parsley  and  accompanied  by  a  small  glass  dish 
containing  sUced  lemon. 

Or, 

You  can  pour  over  them  a  sauce  prepared  in  this  way : — 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan,  and  stir 
until  it  is  brown — not  burned.  Add  a  half-teacupful  of 
boiling  water  in  which  has  been  stirred  a  tablespoonful  of 
browned  flour  previously  wet  with  cold  water.  Add  salt, 
a  teaspoonful  Worcestershire  sauce  or  anchovy,  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  and  let  it  boil  up  well.  Pour  over  the  steaks  when 
you  have  arranged  them  in  the  dish. 

Baked  Sturgeox. 

A  piece  of  sturgeon  weighing  five  or  six  pounds  is 
enough  for  a  handsome  dish.  Skin  it  and  let  it  stand  in 
salt  and  water  for  half  an  hour.  Parboil  it  to  remove  the 
oil.  Make  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  minute  bits  of  fat 
salt  pork,  sweet  herbs,  and  butter.  Gash  the  upper  part  of 
the  fish  quite  deeply,  and  rub  this  force-meat  well  in ;  put 
in  a  baking-pan  with  a  little  water  to  keep  it  from  burning, 
and  bake  for  an  hour. 


64  OOHMOK  SENSE. 

Servo  with  a  sauce  of  drawn  butter,  in  which  has  been 
stirred  a  spoonful  of  caper  sauce  and  another  of  catsup. 
This  is  a  Virginia  receipt,  and  an  admirable  one. 

Mayonnaise.     (2^7*.) 

Take  a  pound  or  so  of  cold  boiled  fish  (halibut,  rock,  or 
cod),  cut — ^not  chop — ^into  pieces  an  inch  in  length.  Mix  in 
a  bowl  a  dressing  as  follows :  the  yolks  of  four  boiled  eggs 
rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  salad  oil ;  add  to  these  salt, 
pepper,  mustard,  two  tcaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  and,  lastly, 
six  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Beat  the  mixture  until 
light,  and  just  before  pouring  it  over  the  fish,  stir  in  lightly 
the  frothed  white  of  a  raw  egg.  Serve  the  fish  in  a  glass 
dish,  with  six  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  half  the  dress- 
ing stirred  in  with  it.  Spread  the  remainder  over  the  top, 
and  lay  blanched  lettuce-lea vcs  around  the  edges,  to  be  eaten 
with  it. 

Baked  Salmon-Trout.  •!• 

Those  who  have  eaten  this  piince  of  game  .fish  in  the 
Adirondacks,  within  an  hour  after  he  has  left  the  lake,  will 
agree  with  me  that  he  never  has  such  justice  done  him  at 
any  other  time  as  when  baked  with  cream. 

Handle  the  beauty  with  gentle  respect  while  cleaning, 
washing,  and  wiping  him,  and  lay  him  at  full  length,  still 
respectfully,  iu  a  baking-pan,  with  just  enough  water  to 
keep  him  from  scorching.  If  large,  score  the  back-bone 
with  a  sharp  knife,  taking  care  not  to  mar  the  comeliness 
of  his  red-spotted  sides.  Bake  slowly,  basting  often  with 
butter  and  water.  By  the  time  he  is  done — and  he  should 
be  so  well-looked  after  that  his  roysl  robe  hardly  shows  a 
seam  or  rent,  and  the  red  spots  are  still  distinctly  visible — 
have  ready  in  a  saucepan  a  cup  of  cream — diluted  with  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  lest  it  should  clot  in  heating — 


FISH.  65 

in  which  has  been  stirred  cautiously  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Heat  this  in  a 
vessel  set  within  another  of  boiling  water,  add  the  gravy 
from  the  dripping-pan,  boil  up  once  to  thicken,  and  when 
the  trout  is  laid — always  respectfully — in  a  hot  dish,  pour 
the  sauce  around  him  as  he  lies  in  state.  He  will  take  kind- 
ly to  the  creamy  bath,  and  your  guests  will  take  kindly  to 
him.  Garnish  with  a  wreath  of  crimson  nasturtium-blooms 
and  dainty  sprigs  of  parsley,  arranged  by  your  own  hands 
on  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  let  no  sharply-spiced  sauces 
come  near  him.  They  would  but  mar  his  native  richness — 
the  flavor  he  brought  with  him  from  the  lake  and  wild- wood. 
Salt  him  lightly,  should  he  need  it,  eat  and  be  happy. 

If  the  above  savor  of  bathos  rather  than  "  common 
sense,"  my  excuse  is,  I  have  lately  eaten  baked  salmon- 
trout  with  cream-gravy. 

Boiled  Salmon-Trout.  »{« 

Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  trout ;  envelop  in  a  thin  cloth 
fitted  neatly  to  the  shape  of  the  fish,  lay  within  a  fish-kettle, 
cover  with  salted  water  (cold),  and  boil  gently  half  an  hour 
or  longer,  according  to  the  size.  When  done,  unwrap  and 
lay  in  a  hot  dish.  Pour  around  it  cream-sauce  made  as  for 
baked  salmon-trout — only,  of  course,  with  the  omission  of 
the  fish-gravy — and  serve. 

Fried  Trout. 

Brook  trout  are  generally  cooked  in  this  way,  and  form 
a  rarely  delightful  breakfast  or  supper  dish.  * 

Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  fish,  roll  lightly  in  flour,  and 
fry  in  butter  or  clarified  dripping,  or  butter  and  lard.  Let 
the  fat  be  hot,  fry  quickly  to  a  delicate  brown,  and  take  up 
the  instant  they  are  done.     Lay  for  an  instant  upon  a  hot 


66  COMMON   6£NS£. 

folded  napkin,  to  absorb  whatever  grease  may  cling  to  their 
speckled  sides;  then  range  side  by  side  in  a  heated  dish, 
garnish,  and  send  to  table.  Use  no  seasoning  except  salt, 
and  that  only  when  the  fish  are  fried  in  lard  or  unsalted 
dripping. 

Fried  Pickerel.  »{« 

The  pickerel  ranks  next  to  trout  among  game-fish,  and 
should  be  fried  in  the  same  manner.  Especially — and  I 
urge  this  with  groaning  of  spirit,  in  remembrance  of  the 
many  times  m  which  I  have  had  my  senae  of  fitness,  not  to 
say  my  appetite,  outraged  by  seeing  the  gallant  fish  brought 
to  table  dried  to  a  crisp  throughout,  all  his  juices  wasted 
and  sweetness  utterly  departed— especially,  do  not  fry  him 
slowly  and  too  long ;  and  when  he  is  done,  take  him  out  of 
the  grease! 

Cream  Pickerel.  »{« 

Reserve  your  largest  pickerel — those  over  three  pounds  in 
weight — ^for  baking,  and  proceed  with  them  as  with  baked 
salmon-trout — cream-gravy  and  all.  If  you  cannot  afford 
cream,  substitute  rich  milk,  and  thicken  with  rice  or  wheat 
flour.  The  fish  are  better  cooked  in  this  way  than  any 
other. 

Fried  Perch,  and  other  Pan-pish. 

Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  fish.  Lay  them  in  a  large 
flat  dish,  salt,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Have  ready  a  frying- 
pan  of  hot  dripping,  lard,  or  butter ;  put  in  as  many  fish  as 
the  pan  will  hold  without  crowding,  and  fry  to  a  light 
brown.     Send  up  hot  in  a  chafing-dish. 

The  many  varieties  of  pan-fish — porgies,  flounders,  river- 
bass,  weak-fish,  white-fish,  etc.,  may  be  cooked  in  like  man- 
ner. In  serving,  lay  the  head  of  each  fish  to  ike  tail  of  iJie 
one  next  him. 


FISH.  67 

Stewed  Cat-fish.  •{• 

Skin,  clean,  and  cut  off  the  horribly  homely  heads. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  to  remove  any  muddy  taste  they  may 
have  contracted  from  the  flats  or  holes  in  which  they  have 
fed,  and  let  them  lie  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour  or  so. 
Then  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and 
stew  very  gently  for  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
aocordiDg  to  their  size.  Add  a  chopped  shallot  or  button- 
onion,  a  bunch  of  chopped  parsley,  a  little  pepper,  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonfiil  flotir  mixed  to  a 
paste  with  cold  water ;  boil  up  once,  take  out  the  fish  care- 
fully, and  lay  in  a  deep  dish.  Boil  up  the  gravy  once 
more,  and  pour  over  the  fish.     Send  to  table  in  a  covered 

dish. 

Fbied  Cat-fish.  •{« 

Skin,  clean,  and  remove  the  heads.  Sprinkle  with  salt, 
and  lay  aside  for  an  hour  or  more.  Have  ready  two  or 
three  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  and,  in  a  flat  dish,  a  quantity 
of  powdered  cracker.  Dip  the  fish  first  in  the  egg,  then  in 
the  cracker,  and  fry  quickly  in  hot  lard  or  dripping.  Take 
up  as  soon  as  done. 

Cat-fish  cooked  in  this  manner  are  sweet  and  savory — 
a  trifle  too  rich  for  delicate  persons,  but  very  nice  for  those 
who  are  blessed  with  good  digestions. 

Cat-fish  Chowder. 

Skin,  clean,  and  cut  off  the  heads.  Cut  the  fish  into 
pieces  two  inches  long,  and  put  into  a  pot  with  some  fat 
pork  cut  into  shreds — a  pound  to  a  dozen  medium-sized 
fish,  two  chopped  onions,  or  half  a  dozen  shallots,  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  and  pepper.  The  pork  will  salt  it  suffi- 
ciently. Stew  slowly  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Then 
stir  in  a  cup  of  milk,  thickened  with  a  tablespoonful  of 


68  COMMON   SENSE. 

flour ;  take  up  a  cupful  of  the  hot  liquor,  and  stir,  a  little  at 
a  time,  into  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Return  this  to  the  pot ; 
throw  in  half  a  dozen  Boston  or  butter  crackers,  split  in 
half;  let  all  boil  up  once,  and  turn  into  a  tureen.  Pass 
sliced  lemon,  or  cucumber  pickles,  also  sliced,  with  it.  Take 
out  the  backbones  of  tlie  fish  before  serving. 

Stewed  Eels.  »|< 

Inquire,  before  buying,  where  they  were  caught,  and 
give  so  decided  a  preference  to  country  eels  as  to  refuse 
those  fattened  upon  the  oflal  of  city  wharves.  Nor  are  the 
largest  eels  the  best  for  eating.  One  weighing  a  pound  is 
better  for  your  purpose  than  a  bulky  fellow  that  weighs 
three. 

Skin  and  clean,  carefully  extracting  all  the  f&i  from  the 
inside.  Cut  into  lengths  of  an  inch  and  a  half;  put  into  a 
saucepan,  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them ;  throw  in 
a  little  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  and  stew  slowly,  closely  cov- 
ered, for  at  least  one  hour.  Add,  at  the  last,  a  great  spoon- 
ful of  butter,  and  a  little  flour  wet  with  cold  water,  also  pep- 
per. Serve  in  a  deep  dish.  The  appearance  and  odor  of 
this  stew  are  so  pleasing  as  often  to  overcome  the  preju- 
dices of  those  who  "  Wouldn't  touch  an  eel  for  tiie  world ! 
They  look  so  like  snakes  !  "  And  those  who  have  tasted 
once  rarely  enter  a  second  demurrer. 

Fried  Eels. 

Prepare  as  for  stewing ;  roll  in  flour,  and  fry,  in  hot 
lard  or  dripping,  to  a  light  brown. 

Chowder  (^Yo.  1).  4« 

Take  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  cut  into  strips,  and  soak  in 
hot  water  five  minutes.     Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pot  with  a 


FISH.  69 

layer  of  this.  Cut  four  pounds  of  cod  or  sea-bass  into 
pieces  two  inches  square,  and  lay  enough  of  these  on  the 
pork  to  cover  it.  Follow  with  a  layer  of  chopped  onions, 
a  little  parsley,  summer  savory,  and  pepper,  either  black  or 
cayenne.  Then  a  layer  of  split  Boston,  or  butter,  or  whole 
cream  crackers,  which  have  been  soaked  in  warm  water  un- 
til moist  through,  but  not  ready  to  break.  Above  this  lay 
a  stratum  of  pork,  and  repeat  the  order  given  above— onions, 
seasoning  (not  too  much),  crackers,  and  pork,  until  your 
materials  are  exhausted.  Let  the  topmost  layer  bo  buttered 
crackers,  well  soaked.  Pour  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
all  barely.  Cover  the  pot,  stew  gently  for  an  hour,  watch- 
ing that  the  water  does  not  sink  too  low.  Should  it  leave 
the  upper  layer  exposed,  replenish  cautiously  from  the 
boiling  tea-kettle.  When  the  chowder  is  thoroughly  done, 
take  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer  and  put  into  a  tureen. 
Thicken  .the  gravy  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  about 
the  same  quantity  of  butter.  Boil  up  and  pour  over  the 
chowder.  Send  sliced  lemon,  pickles,  and  stewed  tomatoes 
to  the  table  with  it,  that  the  guests  may  add,  if  they  like. 

Chowder  (iVb.  2). 

Slice  six  large  onions,  and  fry  them  in  the  gravy  of  fried 
salt  pork.  Cut  five  pounds  of  bass  or  cod  into  strips  three 
inches  long  and  one  tliick,  and  line  the  bottom  of  a  pot  with 
them.  Scatter  a  few  slices  of  onion  upon  them,  a  little  salt, 
half  a  dozen  whole  black  peppers,  a  clove  or  two,  a  pinch  of 
thyme  and  one  of  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  tomato  or  mush- 
i-oom  catsup,  and  six  oysters ;  then  comes  a  layer  of  oyster 
crackers,  well-soaked  in  milk  and  buttered  thickly.  Another 
layer  of  fish,  onions,  seasoning,  and  crackers,  and  so  on  until 
all  are  used  up.  Cover  with  water,  boil  slowly  for  an  hour 
and  pour  out.  Serve  with  capers  and  sliced  lemon.  A  cup  of 
oyster-liquor  added  to  the  chowder  while  boiling  improves  it. 


70  COMMON   SENSE. 

SHELL-FISH. 

To  Boil  a  Lobster. 

Choose  a  lively  one — ^not  too  large,  lest  he  should  be 
tough.  Put  a  handful  of  salt  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water, 
and  having  tied  the  claws  together,  if  jour  fish-merchant 
has  not  already  skewered  them,  plunge  him .  into  the  pre- 
pared bath.  He  will  be  restive  under  this  vigorous  hydro- 
pathic treatment ;  but  allay  your  tortured  sympathies  by 
the  reflection  that  he  is  a  cold-blooded  animal,  destitute  of 
imagination,  and  that  pain,  according  to  some  philosophers, 
exists  only  in  the  imagination.  However  this  may  be,  his 
suffering  will  be  shoii;-lived.  Boil  from  half  an  hour  to  an 
hour,  as  his.  size  demands.  When  done,  draw  out  the  scarlet 
innocent,  and  lay  him,  face  downward,  in  a  sieve  to  dry. 
When  cold,  split  open  the  body  and  tail,  and  crack  the  claws 
to  extract  the  meat,  throwing  away  the  "  lady-fingers  "  and 
tlie  head.  Lobsters  are  seldom  served  without  dressing,  up- 
on private  tables,  as  few  persons  care  to  take  the  trouble  of 
preparing  their  own  salad  after  taking  their  seats  at  the 
board. 

Devilled  Ix>bster. 

Extract  the  meat  from  a  boiled  lobster,  as  for  salad,  and 
mince  it  finely;  reserve  the  coral.  Season  highly  with 
mustard,  cayenne,  salt,  and  some  pungent  sauce.  Toss  and 
stir  until  it  is  well  mixed,  and  put  into  a  porcelain  sauce- 
pan (covered),  with  just  enough  hot  water  to  keep  it  from 
burning.  Hub  the  coral  smooth,  moistening  with  vinegar 
until  it  is  thin  enough  to  pour  easily,  then  stir  into  the  con- 
tents of  the  saucepan.  It  is  necessaiy  to  prepare  the  dress- 
ing, let  me  say,  before  the  lobster-meat  is  set  on  the  fire. 
It  ought  to  boil  up  but  once  before  the  coral  and  vinegai- 
are  put  in.     Next  stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


8HELL-FI8H.  71 

and  when  it  boils  again,  take  the  pan  from  the  fire.  Too 
much  cooking  toughens  the  meat.  This  is  a  famous  supper 
dish  for  sleighing-parties. 

Lobster  Croquettes,  p^ 

To  the  meat  of  a  well-boiled  lobster,  chopped  fine,  add 
pepper,  salt,  and  powdered  mace.  Mix  with  this  one-quarter 
as  much  bread-ci-umbs,  well  rubbed,  as  jou  have  meat; 
make  into  jovates,  or  pointed  balls,  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter.  Roll  these  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  pulver- 
ized cracker,  and  fry  in  butter  or  very  nice  sweet  lard.  Serve 
dry  and  hot,  and  garnish  with  crisped  parsley. 

This  is  a  delicious  supper  dish  or  entree  at  dinner. 

Devilled  Crab.  »{« 

This  is  prepared  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt — 
substituting  for  the  coral  in  the  vinegar  some  pulverized 
cracker,  moistened  first  with  a  tablespoonful  of  rich  cream. 
You  can  serve  up  in  the  back-shell  of  the  crab  if  you  like. 
Send  in  with  cream  crackers,  and  stick  a  sprig  of  parsley 
in  the  top  of  each  heap,  ranging  the  shells  upon  a  large  flat 
dish. 

Crab  Salad. 

Mince  the  meat  and  dress  as  in  lobster  salad.  Send  in 
the  back  shell  of  the  crab. 

Soft  Crabs.  »J< 

Many  will  not  eat  hard-shell  crabs,  considering  them 
indigestible,  and  not  sufficiently  palatable  to  compensate 
for  the  risk  they  run  in  eating  them.  And  it  must  be 
owned  that  they  are,  at  their  best,  but  an  indifi*erent  sub- 
stitute for  the  more  aristocratic  lobster.     But  in  the  mom- 


72  COMMON   SENSE. 

ing  of  life,  for  him  so  often  renewed,  Lis  crabsliip  is  a 
different  creature,  and  gi*eatly  affected  by  epicures. 

Do  not  keep  the  crabs  over  night,  as  the  shells  harden 
in  twenty-four  hours.  Pull  off  the  spongy  substance  from 
the  sides  and  the  sand-bags.  These  are  the  only  portions 
that  are  imeatable.  Wash  well,  and  wipe  dry.  Have  ready 
a  pan  of  seething  hot  lard  or  butter,  and  fry  them  to  a  fine 
brown.  Put  a  little  salt  into  the  lard.  The  butter  will 
need  none.     Send  up  hot,  garnished  with  parsley. 

Water-Turtles,  or  Terrapins. 

Land-terrapins,  it  is  hardly  necessary  to  say,  are  uneat- 
able, but  the  large  turtle  that  frequents  our  mill-ponds  and 
rivers  can  be  convei*ted  into  a  relishable  article  of  food. 

Plunge  the  turtle  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  let 
him  lie  there  five  minutes.  You  can  then  skin  the  under- 
part  easily,  and  pull  off  the  homy  parts  of  the*  feet.  Lay 
liim  for  ten  minutes  in  cold  salt  and  water ;  then  put  into 
more  hot  water — salted,  but  not  too  much.  Boil  until 
tender.  The  time  will  depend  upon  the  size  and  age. 
Take  him  out,  drain,  and  wipe  dry ;  loosen  the  shell  carefully, 
not  to  break  the  flesh ;  cut  open  also  with  care,  lest  you 
touch  the  gall-bag  yrith  the  knife.  Remove  this  with  the 
entrails  and  sand-bag.  Cut  up  all  the  rest  of  the  animal 
into  small  bits,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  chopped  onion, 
sweet  herbs,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  some  spiced  sauce,  or  a 
tablespoonful  of  catsup — walnut  or  mushroom.  Save  the 
juice  that  runs  from  the  meat,  and  put  all  together  into 
a  saucepan  with  a  closely-fitting  top.  Stew  gently  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally,  and  add  a  great  spoonful  of 
butter,  or  a  teaspoonful  browned  flour  wet  in  cold  water,  a 
glass  of  brown  sherry,  and  lastly,  the  beaten  yolk  of  an 
egg,  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  hot  liquor^  that  it  may  not 


SHELL-FISn.  78 

ciirdle.     Boil  up  once,  and  turn  into  a  covered  dish.     Send 
around  green  pickles  and  delicate  slices  of  dry  toast  with  it. 

Stewed  Oysters.  •{< 

Drain  the  liquor  from  two  quarts  of  firm,  plump  oysters ; 
mix  with  it  a  small  teacupful  of  hot  water,  add  a  little  salt 
and  pepper,  and  set  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan.  When  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  add  a  large  cupful  of  rich  milk.  (Cream  is 
better.)  Let  it  boil  up  once,  put  in  the  oysters,  let  them 
boil  for  five  minutes  or  less — ^not  more.  When  they  "  ruf- 
fle,'' add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  the  instant  it  is 
melted  and  well  stirred  in,  take  the  saucepan  from  the  fire. 
Serve  with  oyster  or  cream  crackers,  as  soon  as  possible. 
Oysters  become  tough  and  tasteless  when  cooked  too  much, 
or  left  to  stand  too  long  after  they  are  withdrawn  from  the 
fire.  A  good  and  safe  plan  is,  to  heat  the  milk  in  a  sepa- 
rate vessel  set  in  another  of  hot  water,  and  after  it  is 
mingled  with  the  liquor  and  oysters,  stir  assiduously  or  it 
may  "  catch,"  as  the  cooks  say — i,  e.,  scorch  on  the  sides  or 
bottom  of  the  saucepan. 

Fried  Oysters.  ^J^ 

Use  for  frying  the  largest  and  best  oysters  you  can  find. 
Take  them  cai'efully  from  the  liquor ;  lay  them  in  rows  upon 
a  clean  cloth,  and  press  another  lightly  upon  them  to  absorb 
the  moisture.  Have  ready  several  beaten  eggs,  and  in  an- 
other dish  some  crackers  crushed  fine.  In  the  frying-pan 
heat  enough  nice  butter  to  cover  the  oysters  entirely.  Dip 
each  oyster  first  in  the  egg,  then  into  the  cracker,  rolling  it 
over  that  it  may  become  completely  incrusted.  Drop  them 
carefully  into  the  frying-pan,  and  fry  quickly  to  a  light 
brown.  If  the  butter  is  hot  enough  they  Avill  soon  be  ready 
to  take  out.  Test  it  by  putting  in  one  oyster  before  you 
•  4 


74  COMMON  SENSE. 

lisk  the  rest.  Do  not  let  them  lie  in  the  pan  an  instant  after 
they  are  done.  Serve  diy,  and  let  the  dish  be  warm.'  A 
chafing-dish  is  best. 

Oysteu  Fbitteks.  •{< 

Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oystera,  and  to  a  cupful  of  this 
add  the  same  quantity  of  milk,  three  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and 
flour  enough  for  a  thin  batter.  Chop  the  ojrsters  and  stir 
into  the  batter.  Have  ready  in  the  frying-pan  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  lard,  or  half  lard,  half  butter ;  heat  veiy  hot,  and  drop 
the  oyster-batter  in  by  the  tablespoonful.  Try  a  spoonful 
first,  to  satisfy  yourself  that  the  lard  is  hot  enough,  and  that 
the  fntter  is  of  the  right  size  and  consistency.  Take  rapidly 
from  tlie  pan  as  soon  as  they  are  done  to  a  pleasing  yellow- 
brown,  and  send  to  table  very  hot. 

Some  fiy  the  oyster  whole,  enveloped  in  batter,  one  in 
each  fritter.  In  this  case,  the  batter  should  be  thicker  than 
if  the  chopped  oyster  were  to  be  added. 

Scalloped  Oysters,  t^t 

Crush  and  roll  several  handfuls  of  Boston  or  other  fri- 
able crackers.  Put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered 
pudding-dish.  Wet  this  with  a  mixture  of  the  oyster  liquor 
and  milk,  slightly  warmed.  Next,  have  a  layer  of  oysters. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  small  bits  of  butter 
upon  them.  Tlien  another  layer  of  moistened  crumbs,  and 
so  on  until  the  dish  is  fuU.  Let  the  top  layer  be  of  crumbs, 
thicker  than  the  rest,  and  beat  an  egg  into  the  milk  you 
pour  over  them.  Stick  bits  of  butter  thickly  over  it,  cover 
the  dish,  set  it  in  the  oven,  bake  half  an  hour ;  if  the  dish 
is  large,  remove  the  cover,  and  brown  by  setting  it  upon  tho 
upper  grating  of  oven,  or  by  holding  a  hot  shovel  over  it. 


SHELL-FISH.  75 

Broiled  Oysters.  »{< 

Choose  large,  fat  oysters;  wipe  them  very  dry;  sprinkle 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper  upon  them,  and  broil  upon  one  of 
the  small  gridirons  sold  for  that  purpose.  Tou  can  dredge 
the  oyster  with  flour  if  you  wish  to  have  it  browp,  and  some 
fiEuicy.  the  juices  are  better  kept  in  in  this  way.  Others 
dislike  the  crust  thus  formed.  Butter  the  gridiron  well, 
and  let  your  fire  be  hot  and  clear.  If  the  oyster  drip,  with- 
draw the  gridiron  for  an  instant  until  the  smoke  clears 
away.  Broil  quickly  and  dish  hot,  putting  a  tiny  piece  of 
batter,  not  larger  than  a  pea,  upon  each  oyster. 

Cream  Oysters  on  the  Half-shell. 

Pour  into  your  inner  saucepan  a  cup  of  hot  water,  an- 
other of  milk,  and  one  of  cream,  with  a  little  salt.  Set  into 
a  kettle  of  hot  water  until  it  boils,  when  stir  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  little  salt,  with  white  pepper. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  add  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  ar- 
row-root, rice-flour,  or  corn-starch,  wet  with  cold  milk.  By 
this  time  your  shells  should  be  washed  and  buttered,  and  a 
fine  oyster  laid  within  each.  Of  course,  it  is  selon  les  rhgles 
to  use  oyster-shells  for  this  purpose ;  but  you  will  find  clam- 
shells more  roomy  and  more  manageable,  because  more  re- 
gular in  shape.  Bange  these  closely  in  a  large  baking-pan, 
propping  them  with  clean  pebbles  or  fragments  of  shell,  if 
they  do  not  seem  inclined  to  retain  their  contents.  Stir  the 
cream  very  hard  and  fill  up  each  shell  with  a  spoon,  taking 
care  not  to  spill  any  in  the  pan.  Bake  five  or  six  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven  after  the  shells  become  warm.  Serve  on  the 
shell.  Some  substitute  oyster-liquor  for  the  water  in  the 
mixture,  and  use  all  milk  instead  of  cream. 


76  OOIOION  8KKSE. 

Oyster  Omelet.  »{< 

12  oysters,  if  large ;  double  the  number  of  small  ones. 

6  eggs. 

1  cup  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Chopped  parsley,  sali,  and  pepper. 

Chop  the  oysters  very  finely.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  the  eggs  separately  as  for  nice  cake — the  white  until  it 
stands  in  a  heap.  Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a 
frying-pan,  and  heat  while  you  are  mixing  the  omelet.  Stir 
the  milk  into  a  deep  dish  with  the  yolk,  and  season.  Next 
put  in  the  chopped  oysters,  beating  vigorously  as  you  add 
them  gradually.  When  they  are  thoroughly  incorporated, 
IK)ur  in  the  spoonfid  of  melted  butter  ;  finally,  whip  in  tlie 
whites  lightly  and  with  as  few  strokes  as  possible.  If  the 
butter  is  hot,  and  it  ought  to  be,  that  the  omelet  may  not 
stand  uncooked,  put  the  mixture  into  the  pan.  Do  not  stir 
it,  but  when  it  begins  to  stiffen — "to  set,"  in  culinary 
phrase,  slip  a  broad-bladed,  round-pointed  dinner-knife 
around  the  sides,  and  cautiously  under  the  omelet,  that  the 
butter  may  roach  every  part.  As  soon  as  the  centre  is 
fairly  "  set,"  turn  out  into  a  hot  dish.  Lay  the  latter  bot- 
tom upward  over  the  frying-pan,  which  must  be  turned  up- 
side-down dexterously.  This  brings  the  browned  side  of 
the  omelet  uppermost.  This  omelet  is  delicious  and  easily 
made. 

Oyster  Pie.  •{< 

Make  a  rich  puff-paste ;  roll  out  twice  as  thick  as  for  a 
fruit-pie  for  the  top-crust — about  the  ordinaiy  thickness  for 
the  lower.  Line  a  pudding-dish  with  the  thinner,  and  fill 
with  crusts  of  dry  bread  or  light  crackers.  Some  use  a 
folded  towel  to  fill  the  interior  of  the  pie,  but  tlio  above 
expedient  is  preferable.     J>uttcr  the  edges  of  the  dish,  that 


SHELL-FISH.  77 

jou  may  be  able  to  lift  the  upper  crust  without  breaking. 
Cover  the  mock-pie  with  the  thick  crust,  ornamented  heavily 
at  the  edge,  that  it  may  lie  the  more  quietly,  and  bake. ' 
Ckx)k  the  oysters  as  for  a  stew,  only  beating  into  them  at 
the  last  two  eggs,  and  thickening  with  a  spoonful  of  fine 
cracker-crumbs  or  rice-flour.  They  should  stew  but  five 
minutes,  and  time  them  so  that  the  paste  will  be  baked  just 
in  season  to  receive  them.  lift  the  top  crust,  pour  in  the 
smoking  hot  oysters,  and  send  up  hot. 

I  know  that  many  consider  it  unnecessary  to  prepare  the 
oysters  and  crust  separately ;  but  my  experience  and  obser- 
vation go  to  prove  that,  if  this  precaution  be  omitted,  the- 
oysters  are  apt  to  be  wofully  overdone.  The  reader  can 
try  both  methods  and  take  her  choice. 

Pickled  Oysters.  •{< 

100  large  oysters. 

1  pint  white  wine  vinegar. 

1  doz.  blades  of  mace. 

2  doz.  whole  cloves. 

2  doz.  whole  black  peppers. 

1  large  red  pepper  broken  into  bits. 

Put  oysters,  liquor  and  all,  into  a  porcelain  or  bell-metal 
kettle.  Salt  to  taste.  Heat  slowly  until  the  oysters  are 
very  hot,  but  not  to  boiling.  Take  them  out  with  a  perfo- 
rated skimmer,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  To  the  liquor  which 
remains  in  the  kettle  add  the  vinegar  and  spices.  Boil  up 
fairly,  and  when  the  oysters  ai-e  almost  cold,  pour  over  them 
scalding  hot.  Cover  the  jar  in  which  they  are,  and  put 
away  in  a  cool  place.  Next  day  put  the  pickled  oysters  into 
glass  cans  with  tight  tops.  Keep  in  the  dai'k,  and  where 
they  arc  not  liable  to  become  heated. 

I  have  kept  oysters  thus  prepared  for  throe  weeks  in  the 


78  COMMON   BEN8E. 

winter.  If  you  open  a  can,  use  the  contents  up  as  soon 
as  practicable.  The  air,  like  the  light,  will  turn  them 
dark. 

It  is  little  trouble  for  every  housekeeper  to  put  up  the 
pickled  oysters  needed  in  her  fJEtmily ;  and  besides  the  satis- 
faction she  will  feel  in  the  consciousness  that  the  materials 
used  are  harmless,  and  the  oysters  sound,  she  will  save  at 
least  one-third  of  the  price  of  those  she  would  buy  ready 
pickled.  The  colorless  vinegar  used  by  "  professionals  "  for 
such  purposes  is  usually  sulphuric  or  pyroligneous  add.  If 
you  doubt  this,  pour  a  little  of  the  liquor  from  the  pickled 
oysters  put  up  by  your  obliging  oyster-dealer  into  a  bell- 
metal  kettle.  I  tried  it  once,  and  the  result  was  a  liquid 
that  matched  the  clear  green  of  Niagara  in  hue.  I  cannot 
compare  it  justly  with  anything  else. 

Boast  Oysters. 

There  is  no  pleasanter  frolic  for  an  Autumn  evening,  in 
the  regions  where  oysters  are  plentiful,  than  an  impromptu 
"roast"  in  the  kitchen.  There  the  oysters  are  hastily 
thrown  into  the  fire  by  the  peck.  You  may  consider  that 
your  fjEistidious  taste  is  marvellously  respected  if  they  are 
washed  first.  A  bushel  basket  is  set  to  receive  the  empty 
shells,  and  the  click  of  the  oyster-knives  forms  a  constant 
accompaniment  to  the  music  of  laughing  voices.  Nor  are 
roast  oysters  amiss  upon  your  own  quiet  supper-table,  when 
the  "  good  man  "  comes  in  on  a  wet  night,  tired  and  hungry, 
and  wants  "  something  heartening."  Wash  and  wipe  the 
shell-oysters,  and  lay  them  in  the  oven,  if  it  is  quick ;  upon 
the  top  of  tlie  stove,  if  it  is  not.  When  they  open,  they 
are  done.  Pile  in  a  large  dish  and  send  to  table.  Eemove 
the  upper  shell  by  a  dexterous  wrench  of  the  -knife,  season 
the  oyster  on  the  lower,  with  pepper-sauce  and  butter,  or 
pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar  in  lieu  of  the  sauce,  and  you  have 


SUELL-nSU.  79 

the  very  aroma  of  this  pearl  of  bivalves,  pure  and  unde- 
filed. 

Or,  you  may  open  while  raw,  leaving  the  oysters  upon 
the  lower  shells ;  lay  in  a  large  baking-pan,  and  roast  in  their 
own  liquor,  adding  pepper,  salt,  and  butter  before  serving. 

Raw  Oysters. 

It  has  become  quite  fashionable  to  serve  these  as  one  of 
the  preliminaries  to  a  dinner-pai*ty ;  sometimes  in  small 
plates,  sometimes  on  the  half-sheU.  They  are  seasoned  by 
each  guest  according  to  his  own  taste. 

Steamed  Oysters. 

If  you  have  no  steamer,  impi'ovise  one  by  the  help  of  a 
cullender  and  a  pot-lid  fitting  closely  into  it,  at  a  little 
distance  from  the  top.  Wash  some  shell  oysters  and  lay 
them  in  such  a  position  in  the  bottom  of  the  cullender  that 
the  liquor  wiU  not  escape  from  them  when  the  shell  opens, 
that  is,  with  the  upper  shell  down.  Cover  with  a  cloth 
thrown  over  the  top  of  the  cullender,  and  press  the  lid  hard 
down  upon  this  to  exclude  the  air.  Set  over  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water  so  deep  that  the  cullender,  which  should  fit  into 
the  mouth,  does  not  touch  the  water.  Boil  hard  for  twenty 
minutes,  then  make  a  hasty  examination  of  the  oysters.  If 
they  are  open,  you  are  safe  in  removing  the  cover.  Serve 
on  the  half-shell,  or  upon  a  hot  chafing-dish.  Sprinkle  a 
little  salt  over  them  and  a  few  bits  of  butter ;  but  be  quick 
in  whatever  you  do,  for  the  glory  of  the  steamed  oyster  is  to 
be  eaten  hot. 

Oyster  PAt^s.  »J< 

1  qt.  oysters. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 


80  COMMON   SENSE. 

Set  the  oystei-s,  with  enough  liquor  to  cover  them,  in  a 
saucepan  upon  the  range  or  stove ;  let  them  come  to  a  boil ; 
skim  well,  and  stir  in  the  butter  and  seasoning.  Two  or 
three  spoonfuls  of  cream  will  improve  them.  Have  ready 
small  tins  lined  with  puff-paste.  Put  three  or  four  oysters 
in  each,  according  to  the  size  of  tho  pdte  *  cover  with  paste 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes.  For  open  pdtes, 
cut  the  paste  into  round  cakes  :  those  intended  for  the  bot- 
tom crust  less  than  half  an  inch  thick ;  for  the  upper,  a  lit- 

• 

tie  thicker.  With  a  smaller  cutter,  remove  a  round  of  paste 
from  the  middle  of  tho  latter,  leaving  a  neat  ring.  Lay 
this  carefully  upon  the  bottom  crust ;  place  a  second  ring 
upon  this,  that  tho  cavity  may  be  deep  enough  to  hold  the 
oysters;  lay  the  pieces  you  have  extracted  also  in  the 
pan  with  the  rest,  and  bake  to  a  fine  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 
When  done,  wash  over  with  beaten  egg,  around  top  and  all, 
and  set  in  the  oven  thi-ee  minutes  to  glaze.  Fill  the  cavity 
with  a  mixture  prepared  as  below,  fit  on  the  top  lightly,  and 
serve. 

Jilixture, 

To  half  the  liquor  fi*om  a  quart  of  oysters  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  milk,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Put  in  all  the 
oysters,  leaving  out  the  uncooked  liquor ;  heat  to  boiling, 
and  stir  in — 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch,  wet  with  a  little  milk. 
A  little  salt. 

Boil  four  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it  thickens, 
and  fill  tho  cavity  in  tho  paste  shells.  These  j^^^s  are  very 
nice. 


8HELL-FISH.  81 

Scallops. 

The  heart  is  the  only  part  used.  If  you  buy  them  in 
the  shell,  boil  and  take  out  the  hearts.  Those  sold  in  our 
markets  are  generally  ready  for  frying  or  stewing. 

Dip  them  in  beaten  egg^  then  in  cracker-crumbs,  and 

fry  in  hot  lard. 

Or, 

You  may  stew  like  oysters.     The  fried  scallops  are  gen- 
erally preferred. 

Scalloped  Clahs. 

Chop  the  clams  fine,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Cayenne  pepper  is  thought  to  give  a  finer  flavor  than  black 
or  white  ;  but  to  some  palates  it  is  insufferable.  Mix  in 
another  dish  some  powdered  cracker,  moistened  first  with 
warm  milk,  then  with  the  clam  liquor,  a  beaten  egg  or  two, 
and  some  melted  butter.  Stir  in  with  this  the  chopped 
clams.  Wash  as  many  clam-shells  as  the  mixture  will  fill ; 
wipe  and  butter  them ;  fill,  heaping  up  and  smoothing  over 
with  a  silver  knife  or  tea-spoon.  Range  in  rows  in  your 
baking-pan,  and  cook  until  nicely  browned.  Or,  if  you  do 
not  care  to  be  troubled  with  the  shells,  bake  in  patty-pans, 
sending  to  table  hot  in  the  tins,  as  you  would  the  scallop- 
shells. 

Clam  Fritters.  »J* 

12  clams,  minced  fine. 
1  pint  of  milk. 
3  eggs. 

Add  the  liquor  from  the  clams  to  the  milk ;  beat  up  the 
egg^  and  put  to  this,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  flour  enough 
for  thin  batter ;  lastly,  the  chopped  clams.  Fry  in  hot  lard, 
tr3ring  a  little  first  to  see  that  fat  and  batter  are  right.  A 
tablespoonful  will  make  a  fritter  of  modeititc  size.     Or,  you 

4* 


83  OOMMON  8BNSE. 

can  dip  the  whole  clams  in  batter  and  cook  in  like  manner 
Fry  quickly,  or  tliey  are  apt  to  be  too  greasy. 

Clam  Chowder, 

Fry  five' or  six  slices  of  fat  pork  crisp,  and  chop  to 
pieces.  Sprinkle  some  of  these  in  the  bottom  of  a  pot ; 
lay  upon  them  a  stratum  of  clams ;  sprinkle  with  cayenne 
or  black  pepper  and  salt,  and  scatter  bits  of  butter  profuse- 
ly over  all ;  next,  have  a  layer  of  chopped  onions,  then  one 
of  small  crackers,  split  and  moistened  with  warm  milk.  On 
these  pour  a  little  of  the  fat  left  in  the  pan  after  the  pork 
is  fried,  and  then  comes  a  new  round  of  pork,  clams,  onion, 
etc.  Proceed  in  this  order  until  the  pot  is  nearly  full, 
when  cover  with  water,  and  stew  slowly — the  pot  closely 
covered — for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Drain  off  all  the 
liquor  that  will  flow  freely,  and,  when  you  have  turned  the 
chowder  into  the  tureen,  return  the  gravy  to  the  pot. 
Thicken  with  flour,  or,  better  still,  pounded  crackers ;  add 
a  glass  of  wine,  some  catsup,  and  spiced  sauce ;  boil  up, 
and  pour  over  the  contents  of  the  tureen.  Send  around 
walnut  or  butternut  pickles  with  it. 


P  O  U  LTRY. 

Poultry  should  never  be  eaten  in  less  than  six  or  eight 
hours  after  it  is  killed ;  but  it  should  be  picked  and  drawn 
as  soon  as  possible.  There  is  no  direr  disgrace  to  our 
Northern  markets  than  the  practice  of  sending  whole  dead 
fowls  to  market.  I  have  bought  such  from  responsible 
poultry-dealers,  and  found  them  uneatable,  from  having  re- 
mained undrawn  until  the  flavor  of  the  craw  and  intestines 
had  impregnated  the  whole  body.  Those  who  are  conveiv 
sant  with  the  habit  of  careful  country  housewives,  of  keep- 


POULTBT.  83 

ing  up  a  fowl  without  food  for  a  day  and  night  before  kill- 
ing and  dressing  for  their  own  eating,  cannot  but  regard 
with  disgust  the  surcharged  crops  and  puffy  sides  of  those 
sold  hy  toeight  in  the  shambles.  If  you  want  to  know  what 
you  really  pay  for  poultry  bought  in  these  circumstances, 
weigh  the  offid  extracted  from  the  fowl  by  your  cook,  and 
deduct  from  the  market  weight.  ^^  But  don't  you  know  it 
actually  poisons  a  fowl  to  lie  so  long  undressed?"  once  ex- 
claimed a  Southern  lady  to  me.  ^^  In  our  markets  they  are 
offered  for  sale  ready  picked  and  drawn,  with  the  giblets — 
also  cleaned — tucked  under  their  wings." 

I  know  nothing  about  the  poisonous  nature  of  the  en- 
trails and  crops.  I  do  assert  that  the  custom  is  unclean 
and  unjust.  And  this  I  do  without  the  remotest  hope  of 
arousing  my  fellow-housekeepers  to  remonstrance  against 
estabid  usage.  Only  it  reUeves  my  mind  somewSTL 
grumble  at  what  I  cannot  help.  The  best  remedy  I  can 
propose  for  the  grievance  is  to  buy  live  fowls,  and,  before 
sending  them  home,  ask  your  butcher  to  decapitate  them ; 
the  probabilities  being  greatly  in  favor  of  the  supposition 
that  your  cook  is  too  ^Hinder-hearted"  to  attempt  the  job. 

One  word  as  to  the  manner  of  roasting  meats  and  fowls. 
In  this  day  of  ranges  and  cooking-stoves,  I  think  I  am 
speaking  within  bounds  when  I  assume  that  not  one  house- 
keeper in  fifty  uses  a  spit,  or  even  a  tin  kitchen,  for  such 
purposes.  It  is  in  vain  that  the  writers  of  receipt-books 
inform  us  with  refreshing  naivete  that  all  our  meats  are 
baked,  not  roasted,  and  expatiate  upon  the  superior  flavor 
of  those  prepared  upon  the  English  spits  and  in  old-fash- 
ioned kitchens,  whei'e  enormous  wood-fires  blazed  from 
morning  until  night.  I  shall  not  soon  forget  my  perplex- 
ity when,  an  inexperienced  housekeeper  and  a  firm  believer 
in  all  "  that  was  writ "  by  older  and  wiser  people,  I  stood 
before  my  neat  Mott'i  "  Defiance,"  a  fine  sirloin  of  beef 


84  OOMICON  SENSE. 

ready  to  be  cooked  on  the  table  behind  me,  and  read  from 
my  Instruction-book  that  my  ^^  fire  should  extend  at  least 
eight  inches  beyond  the  roaster  on  either  side ! ''  I  am  not 
denying  the  virtues  of  spits  and  tin  kitchens — only  regret- 
ting that  they  are  not  within  the  reach  of  every  one.  In 
view  of  this  fact,  let  me  remark,  for  the  benefit  of  the  un- 
fortunate many,  that,  in  the  opinion  of  excellent  judges,  the 
practice  of  roasting  meat  in  close  ovens  has  advantages. 
Of  these  I  need  mention  but  two,  to  wit,  the  preservation 
of  the  flavor  of  the  article  roasted,  and  the  prevention  of 
its  escape  to  the  upper  regions  of  the  dwelling. 

The  directions  hereafter  given  touching  roasting  will 
apply  either  to  turnspit,  "  kitchens,"  or  ovens. 

Roast  Turkey. 

After  drawing  the  turkey,  rinse  out  with  several  ^^'ate^s, 
and  in  next  to  the  last  mix  a  tcaspoonful  of  soda.  The  in- 
side of  a  fowl,  especially  if  purchased  in  the  market,  is 
sometimes  very  sour,  and  imparts  an  unpleasant  taste  to  the 
stuffing,  if  not  to  the  inner  part  of  the  legs  and  side-bones. 
The  soda  will  act  as  a  con*ective,  and  is  moreover  very 
cleansing.  Fill  the  body  with  this  water,  shake  well,  empty 
it  out,  and  rinse  with  fair  water.  Then  prepai*e  a  dressing 
of  bread-crumbs,  mixed  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  thyme  or 
sweet  maijoram,  and  wet  with  hot  water  or  milk.  You 
may,  if  you  like,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  A  little 
chopped  sausage  is  esteemed  an  improvement  when  well  in- 
corjiorated  with  the  otlier  ingredients.  Or,  mince  a  dozen 
oysters  and  stir  into  the  di*essing ;  and,  if  you  are  partial  to 
the  taste,  wet  the  bread-crumbs  with  the  oyster-liquor. 
The  effect  upon  the  turkey-meat,  particularly  that  of  the 
breast,  is  veiy  pleasant. 

Stuff  the  craw  with  this,  and  tie  a  string  tightly  about 
the  neck,  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  stuffing.     Then  fill 


POULTEY.  85 

the  body  of  the  turkey,  and  sew  it  up  with  strong  thread. 
This  and  the  neck-string  are  to  be  removed  when  the  fowl 
is  dished.  In  roasting,  if  your  fire  is  brisk,  allow  about  ten 
minutes  to  a  pound ;  but  it  will  depend  very  much  upon 
the  turkey*s  age  whether  this  rule  holds  good.  Dredge  it 
with  flour  before  roasting,  and  baste  often ;  at  first  with 
butter  and  water,  afterward  with  the  gravy  in  the  dripping- 
pan.  If  you  roast  in  an  oven,  and  lay  the  turkey  in  the 
pan,  put  in  with  it  a  teacup  of  hot  water.  Many  roast  al- 
ways upon  a  grating  placed  on  the  top  of  the  pan.  In  that 
case  the  boiling  water  steams  the  underpart  of  the  fowl, 
and  prevents  the  skin  from  drying  too  fast,  or  cracking. 
Roast  tQ  a  fine  brown,  and  if  it  threaten  to  darken  too 
i-apidly,  lay  a  sheet  of  white  paper  over  it  until  the  lower 
part  is  also  done. 

Stew  the  chopped  giblets  in  just  enough  water  to  cover 
them,  and  when  the  turkey  is  lifted  from  the  pan,  add 
these,  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  to  the 
drippings ;  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of  browned  flour,  wet 
with  cold  water  to  prevent  lumping,  boil  up  once,  and  pour 
into  the  gravy-boat.  If  the  turkey  is  very  fat,  skim  the 
drippings  well  befoi'e  putting  in  the  giblets. 

Serve  with  cranberry  sauce.  Some  lay  fried  oysters  in 
the  dish  around  the  turkey. 

Boiled  Turkey. 

Chop  about  two  dozen  oysters,  and  mix  with  them  a 
dressing  compounded  as  for  roast  turkey,  only  with  more 
butter,  and  wet  with  the  oyster-liquor  and  a  like  quantity 
of  milk.  Stuff  the  turkey  as  for  roasting,  craw  and  body, 
and  baste  about  it  a  thin  cloth,  fitted  closely  to  every  part. 
The  inside  of  the  cloth  should  be  dredged  with  flour  to  pre- 
vent the  fowl  from  sticking  to  it.  Allow  fifteen  minutes  to 
a  pound,  and  boil  slowly. 


86  COMMON   BKNSE. 

Serve  with  oyster-sauce,  made  by  adding  to  a  cupful  of 
the  liquor  in  which  the  turkey  was  boiled,  the  same  quan- 
tity of  milk  and  eight  oysters  chopped  fine.  Season  with 
minced  parsley,  stir  in  a  spoonful  of  rice  or  wheat  flour,  wet 
with  cold  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  up  once  and 
pour  into  an  oyster-tureen.     Send  around  celery  with  it. 

Turkey  Scallop.  »J< 

Cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  a  cold  boiled  or  roasted 
turkey  left  from  yesterday's  dinner.  Remove  the  bits  of 
skin  and  gristle,  and  chop  up  the  rest  very  fine.  Put  in 
the  bottom  of  a  buttered  dish  a  layer  of  cracker  or  bread- 
crumbs ;  moisten  slightly  with  milk,  that  they  may  not  ab- 
sorb all  the  gravy  to  be  poured  in  afterward  ;  then  spread  a 
layer  of  the  minced  turkey,  with  bits  of  the  stuffing,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  small  pieces  of  butter.  Another  layer  of 
cracker,  wet  with  milk,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  nearly 
full.  Before  putting  on  the  topmost  layer,  pour  in  the 
gravy  left  from  the  turkey,  diluted — should  there  not  be 
enough — with  hot  water,  and  seasoned  with  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  catsup,  and  butter.  Have  ready  a  crust  of 
cracker-crumbs  soaked  in  warm  milk,  seasoned  with  salt, 
and  beaten  up  light  with  two  eggs.  It  should  be  just  thick 
enough  to  spread  smoothly  over  the  top  of  the  scallop. 
Stick  bits  of  butter  plentifuUy  upon  it,  and  bake.  Turn  a 
deep  plate  over  the  dish  imtil  the  contents  begin  to  bub- 
ble at  the  sides,  showing  that  the  whole  is  thoroughly 
cooked  ;  then  remove  the  cover,  and  brown.  A  large  pud- 
ding-dish full  of  the  mixture  will  be  cooked  in  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour. 

This,  like  many  other  economical  dishes,  will  prove  so 
savory  as  to  claim  a  frequent  appearance  upon  any  table. 
Cold  chicken  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  ; 


POULTBY.  87 

The  minced  turkey,  dressing,  and  cracker-crumbs  may 
be  wet  with  gravy,  two  eggs  beaten  into  it,  and  the  force- 
meat thus  made  rolled  into  oblong  shapes,  dipped  in  e^ 
and  pounded  cracker,  and  fried  like  croquettes,  for  a  side 
dish,  to  "  make  out  *'  a  dinner  of  ham  or  cold  meat. 

IlAGOtJT  OP  Turkey. 

This  is  also  a  cheap,  yet  nice  dish.  Cut  the  cold 
turkey  from  the  bones  and  into  bits  an  inch  long  with  knife 
and  fork,  tearing  as  little  as  possible.  Put  into  a  skillet  or 
saucepan  the  gravy  left  from  the  roast,  with  hot  water  to 
dilute  it  should  the  quantity  be  small.  Add  a  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  tcaspoonful  of  pungent  sauce, 
a  half-teaspoonful  of  cloves,  a  large  pinch  of  nutmeg,  with 
a  little  salt.  Let  it  boil,  and  put  in  the  meat.  Stew  very 
slowly  for  ten  minutes — not  more — and  stir  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cranberry  or  currant  jelly,  another  of  browned 
flour  which  has  been  wet  with  cold  water ;  lastly,  a  glass 
of  brown  sherry  or  Madeira.  Boil  up  once,  and  serve  in  a 
covered  dish  for  breakfast.  Leave  out  the  stuflSng  entire- 
ly;  it  is  no  improvement  to  the  flavor,  and  disfigures  the 
appearance  of  the  ragoilit. 

Roast  Chickens. 

Having  picked  and  drawn  them,  wash  out  well  in  two 
or  three  waters,  adding  a  little  soda  to  the  last  but  one 
should  any  doubtful  odor  linger  about  the  cavity.  Prepare 
a  stufling  of  bread-crumbs,  butter,  pepper,  salt,  &jq.  Fill 
the  bodies  and  crops  of  the  chickens,  which  should  be 
young  and  pliunp ;  sew  them  up,  and  roast  an  hour  or  more, 
in  proportion  to  their  size.  Baste  two  or  three  times  with 
butter  and  water,  afterward  with  their  own  gravy.      If 


88  COMMON   8ENSE. 

laid  flat  within  the  dripping-pan,  put  in  at  the  first  a  little 
hot  water  to  prevent  burning. 

Stew  the  giblets  and  necks  in  enough  water  to  cover 
them,  and,  when  you  have  removed  the  fowls  to  a  hot  dish, 
pour  this  into  the  drippings ;  boil  up  once ;  add  the  gib- 
lets, chopped  fine ;  thicken  with  browned  flour ;  boil  again, 
and  send  to  table  in  a  gravy-boat. 

Serve  with  crab-apple  jelly  or  tomato  sauce. 

Boiled  Chickens. 

Clean,  wash,  and  stuff  as  for  roasting.  Baste  a  floured 
cloth  around  each,  and  put  into  a  pot  with  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  them  well.  The  hot  water  cooks  the  skin  at 
once,  and  prevents  the  escape  of  the  juices.  The  broth 
will  not  be  so  rich  as  if  the  fowls  are  put  on  in  cold  water ; 
but  this  is  a  proof  that  the  meat  will  be  more  nutritious 
and  better  flavored.  Stew  very  slowly,  for  the  first  half- 
hour  especially.  Boil  an  hour  or  more,  guiding  yourself 
by  size  and  toughness. 

Serve  with  egg  or  bread  sauce.     (See  Sauces,) 

Fricasseed  Ciiickex.     (White.)  »J< 

Clean,  wash,  and  cut  up  the  fowls,  which  need  not  be  so 
tender  as  for  roasting.  Lay  them  in  salt  and  water  for 
half  an  hour.  Put  them  in  a  pot  with  enough  cold  water 
to  cover  them,  and  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  cut  into  thin 
strips.  Cover  closely,  and  let  them  heat  very  slowly ;  then 
stew  for  over  an  hour,  if  the  fowls  are  tender.  I  have 
used  chickens  for  this  purpose  tliat  required  four  hours' 
stewing,  but  they  were  tender  and  good  when  done.  Only 
put  them  on  in  season,  and  cook  very  slowly.  If  they  boil 
fast,  they  toughen  and  shrink  into  imeatableness.  When 
tender,  add  a  chopped  onion  or  two,  parsley,  and  pepper. 


POULTRY.  89 

Cover  closely  again,  and,  when  it  has  heated  to  boiling,  stir 
in  a  teacupfiil  of  milk,  to  which  have  been  added  two  beaten 
eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flonr.  Boil  up  fairly ;  add  a 
great  spoonful  of  butter.  Arrange  the  chicken  neatly  in  a 
deep  chafing-dish,  pour  the  gravy  over  it,  and  serve. 

In  this,  as  in  all  cases  where  beaten  egg  is  added  to  hot 
liquor,  it  is  best  to  dip  out  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  latter, 
and  drop  a  Kttle  at  a  time  into  the  egg,  beating  all  the 
while,  that  it  may  heat  evenly  and  gradually  before  it  ia 
put  into  the  scalding  contents  of  the  saucepan  or  pot. 
Eggs  managed  in  this  way  will  not  curdle,  as  they  are  apt 
to  do  if  thrown  suddenly  into  hot  liquid. 

Fricasseed  Chicken.     (Brovm.)  ^ 

Clean,  wash,  cut  up,  and  skin  a  pair  of  young  chickens. 
Lay  in  clear  water  for  half  an  hour.  If  tliey  are  old,  you 
cannot  brown  them  well.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan,  with 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  them  well,  and  set  over  the  fire 
to  heat  slowly.  Meanwhile,  cut  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork 
into  strips,  and  fry  crisp.  Take  them  out,  chop  fine,  and 
put  into  the  pot  with  the  chicken.  Fry  in  the  fat  left  in 
the  frying-pan  one  large  onion,  or  two  or  three  small  ones, 
cut  into  slices.  Let  them  brown  well,  and  add  them  also 
to  the  chicken,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  allspice  and  one  of 
cloves.  Stew  all  together  slowly  for  an  hour  or  more,  until 
the  meat  is  very  tender ;  you  can  test  this  with  a  fork. 
Take  out  the  pieces  of  fowl  and  put  in  a  hot  dish,  covering 
closely  until  the  gravy  is  ready.  Add  to  this  a  great  spoon- 
ful of  walnut  or  other  dark  catsup,  and  nearly  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  browned  flour,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  a 
glass  of  brown  sherry.  Boil  up  once;  strain  through  a 
cullender,  to  remove  the  bits  of  pork  and  onion ;  return  to 
the  pot,  with  the  chicken ;  let  it  come  to  a  final  boil,  and 
serve,  pouring  the  gravy  over  the  pieces  of  fowl. 


90  COMMON   SENSE. 

Broiled  Chicken. 

It  is  possible  to  render  a  tough  fowl  eatable  by  boiling 
or  stewing  it  with  care.  Never  broil  such!  And  even 
when  assured  that  your  "  broiler "  is  young,  it  is  wise  to 
make  this  doubly  sure  by  laying  it  uppn  sticks  extending 
from  side  to  side  of  a  dripping-pan  full  of  boiling  water. 
Set  this  in  the  oven,  invert  a  tin  pan  over  the  chicken,  and 
let  it  steam  for  half  an  hour.  This  process  relaxes  the 
muscles,  and  renders  supple  the  joints,  besides  preserving 
the  juices  that  would  be  lost  in  parboiling.  The  chicken 
should  be  split  down  the  back,  and  wiped  perfectly  dry 
before  it  is  steamed.  Transfer  from  the  vapor-bath  to  a 
buttered  gridiron,  inside  downward.  Cover  with  a  tin  pan 
or  common  plate,  and  broil  until  tender  and  brown,  turning 
several  times  ;  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour  will 
be  sufficient.  Put  into  a  hot  chafing-dish,  and  butter  very 
well.     Send  to  table  smoking  hot. 

Fried  Chicken  {No.  1). 

Clean,  wash,  and  cut  to  pieces  a  couple  of  Spring  chick- 
ens. Have  ready  in  a  frying-pan  enough  boiling  lard  or 
dripping  to  cover  them  well.  Dip  each  piece  in  beaten  egg 
when  you  have  salted  it,  then  in  cracker-crumbs,  and  fiy 
until  brown.  If  the  chicken  is  large,  steam  it  before  fry- 
ing, as  directed  in  the  foregoing  receipt.  When  you  have 
taken  out  the  meat,  throw  into  the  hot  fat  a  dozen  sprigs 
of  parsley,  and  let  them  remain  a  minute — just  long  enough 
to  crisp,  but  not  to  dry  them.  Garnish  the  chicken  by 
strewing  these  over  it. 

Fried  Chicken  iJNo,  2). 

Cut  up  half  a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  in  a  frying-pan, 
and  fry  until  the  grease   is  extracted,  but  not  until  it 


POULTRY.  91 

browns.  Wash  and  cut  up  a  young  chicken  (broiling  size) ; 
soak  in  salt  and  water  for  half  an  hour ;  wipe  dry,  season 
with  pepper,  and  dredge  with  flour ;  then  fry  in  the  hot 
fat  until  each  piece  is  a  rich  brown  on  both  sides.  Take 
up,  drain,  and  set  aside  in  a  hot  covered  dish.  Pour  into 
the  gravy  lefb  in  the  frying-pan  a  cup  of  milk — half  cream 
is  better;  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of  flour  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter;  add  some  chopped  parsley,  boil  up, 
and  pour  over  the  hot  chicken.  This  is  a  standard  dish  in 
the  Old  Dominion,  and  tastes  nowhere  else  as  it  does  when 
eaten  on  Virginia  soil.  The  cream-gravy  ia  often  omitted, 
and  the  chicken  served  up  dry,  with  bunches  of  fried  pars- 
ley dropped  upon  it. 

Chicken  Pot-pie. 

Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  pot  with  a  good  rich 
paste,  reserving  enough  for  a  top  crust  and  for  the  square 
bits  to  be  scattered  through  the  pie.  Butter  the  pot  very 
lavishly,  or  your  pastry  will  stick  to  it  and  bum.  Cut  up 
a  fine  large  fowl,  and  half  a  pound  of  ham  or  salt  pork. 
Put  in  a  layer  of  the  latter,  pepper  it,  and  cover  with 
pieces  of  the  chicken,  and  this  with  the  paste  dumplings 
or  squares.  If  you  use  potatoes,  parboil  them  before  put- 
ting them  into  the  pie,  as  the  first  water  in  which  they  are 
boiled  is  rank  and  unwholesome.  The  potatoes  should  be 
sliced  and  laid  next  the  pastry  squares ;  then  another  layer 
of  pork,  and  so  on  until  your  chicken  is  used  up.  Cover 
with  pastry  rolled  out  quite  thick,  and  slit  this  in  the  mid- 
dle. Heat  very  slowly,  and  boil  two  hoiu*s.  Turn  into  a 
large  dish,  tlie  lower  crust  on  top,  and  the  gravy  about  it. 

This  is  the  old-fasliioned  pot-pie,  dear  to  the  memory 
of  men  who  were  school-boys  thirty  and  forty  years  ago. 
If  you  are  not  experienced  in  such  manufactures,  you  had 
better  omit  the  lower  crust;    and,  having  browned   the 


92  COMMON  BEKBE. 

upper,  by  putting  a  hot  pot-lid  or  stove-cover  on  top  of 
the  pot  for  some  minutes,  remove  dexterously  without 
breaking.  Pour  out  the  chicken  into  a  dish,  and  set  the 
crust  above  it. 

Veal,  beef-steak,  lamb  (not  mutton),  hares,  &c.,  may  be 
substituted  for  the  chicken.  The  pork  will  salt  it  suffi- 
ciently. 

Baked  Chicken  Pie  »J< 

Is  made  as  above,  but  baked  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish, 
and,  in  place  of  the  potatoes,  three  hard-boiled  eggs  are 
chopped  up  and  strewed  among  the  pieces  of  chicken.  If 
the  chickens  are  tough,  or  even  doubtful,  parboil  them  be- 
fore making  the  pie,  adding  the  water  in  which  they  were 
boiled,  instead  of  cold  water,  for  gravy.  If  they  are  lean, 
put  in  a  few  bits  of  butter.  Oi^nament  with  leaves  cut  out 
with  a  cake-cutter,  and  a  star  in  the  centre.  Bake  an  hour 
— more,  if  the  pie  is  large. 

Chicken  Puddikg  »{< 

Cut  up  as  for  fricassee,  and  parboil,  seasoning  well  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  to 
each  chicken.  The  fowls  should  be  young  and  tender,  and 
divided  at  every  joint.  Stew  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  take 
them  out,  and  lay  on  a  flat  dish  to  cool.  Set  aside  the 
water  in  which  they  were  stewed  for  your  gravy. 

Make  a  batter  of  one  quart  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour, 
three  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  soda, 
and  one  spoonful  of  cream  tartar,  with  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  a  Kttle  salt.  Put  a  layer  of  chicken  in  the  bottom  of 
the  dish,  and  pour  about  half  a  cupful  of  batter  over  it — 
enough  to  conceal  the  meat ;  then,  another  layer  of  chicken, 
and  more  batter,  until  the  dish  is  full.  The  batter  must 
form  the  crust.  Bake  one  houi*,  in  a  moderate  oven,  if  the 
dish  is  large. 


POULTBY.  93 

Beafc  up  an  egg,  and  stir  into  the  gravy  which  was  set 
aside ;  thicken  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  rice  or  wheat  flour, 
add  a  little  chopped  parsley ;  boil  up,  and  send  it  to  table 
in  a  gravy-boat. 

Chickek  and  Ham.  t^ 

Draw,  wash,  and  stuff  a  pair  of  young  fowls.     Cut 

enough  large,  thick  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham  to  envelop 

these  entirely,  wrapping  them  up  carefully,  and  winding  a 

string  about  all,  to  prevent  the  ham  from  falling  off.     Put 

into   your   dripping-pan,  with  a  little  water    to   prevent 

scorching ;  dashing  it  over  the  meat  lest  it  should  dry  and 

shrink.     Invei't  a  tin  pan  over  all,  and  bake  slowly  for  one 

hour  and  a  quarter,  if  the  fowls  are  small  and  tender — 

longer,  if  tough.     Lift  the  cover  from  time  to  time  to  baste 

with  the  drippings — ^the  more  frequently  as  time  wears  on. 

Test  the  tenderness  of  the  fowls,  by  sticking  a  fork  through 

the  ham  into  the  breast.     When  done,  undo  the  strings, 

lay  the  fowls  in  a  hot  dish,  and  the  slices  of  ham  about 

them.     Stir  into  the  dripping  a  little  chopped  parsley,  a 

tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  wet  in  cold  water ;  pepper, 

and  let  boil  up  once.     Pour  some  of  it  over  the  chickens — 

not  enough  to  float  the  ham  in  the  dish ;  serve  the  rest  in 

a  gravy-boat. 

Roast  Ducks. 

Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  the  dmcks  very  carefully.  To  the 
usual  dressing  add  a  little  sage  (powdered  or  green),  and 
a  minced  shallot.  Stuff,  and  sew  up  as  usual,  reserving  the 
giblets  for  the  gi'avy.  If  they  are  tender,  they  will  not  re- 
quire more  than  an  hour  to  roast.  Baste  well.  Skim  the 
gravy  before  putting  in  the  giblets  and  thickening.  The 
giblets  should  be  stewed  in  a  very  little  M'^ater,  then  chopped 
fine,  and  added  to  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan,  with  a 
chopped  shallot  and  a  spoonful  of  browned  flour. 

Accompany  with  cun-ant  or  gi*apo  jelly. 


94  COMMON   SENSE. 

To  Use  up  Cold  Duck.  •!• 

I  may  say,  as  preface,  that  cold  duck  is  in  itself  an  ex- 
cellent supper-dishy  or  side-dish,  at  a  family  dinner,  and  is 
often  preferred  to  hot.  If  the  duck  has  been  cut  into  at  all, 
divide  neatly  into  joints,  and  slice  the  breast,  laying  slices 
of  dressing  about  it.  Garnish  with  lettuce  or  parsley,  and 
eat  with  jelly. 

But  if  a  warm  dish  is  desired,  cut  the  meat  from  the 
bones  and  lay  it  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  little  minced  cold 
ham ;  pour  on  just  enough  water  to  cover  it,  and  stir  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cover,  and  heat  gradually,  until 
it  is  near  boiling.  Then  add  the  gravy,  diluted  with  a  little 
hot  water ;  a  great  spoonful  of  catsup,  one  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  and  one  of  currant  or  cranberry  jelly,  with  a 
glass  of  wine  and  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour. 

Or, 

You  may  put  the  gravy,  with  a  little  hot  water  and  a  lump 
of  butter,  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is  hot  lay  in  the 
pieces  of  duck,  and  warm  up  quickly,  stirring  in  at  the 
last  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  table- 
spoonful of  jelly. 

Serve  in  a  hot  chaflng-dish. 

(For  wild  ducks,  see  Game.) 

Stewed  Duck. 

Tliis  is  a  good  way  to  treat  an  old  and  tough  fowl. 

Clean  and  divide,  as  you  would  a  chicken  for  fricassee. 
Put  into  a  saucepan,  with  several  (minced)  slices  of  cold 
ham  or  salt  pork  which  is  not  too  fat,  and  stew  slowly  for 
at  least  an  hour — keeping  the  lid  on  all  the  while.  Then 
stir  in  a  large  chopped  onion,  a  half-spoonful  of  powdered 
sage,  or  a  whole  spoonful  of  the  green  leaves  cut  fine,  half 


POULTEY.  95 

as  much  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  catsup,  and  black  pepper. 
Stew  another  half-hour,  or  until  the  duck  is  tender,  and 
add  a  teaspoonful  brown  sugar,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
browned  flour,  previously  wet  with  cold  water.  Boil  up 
once,  and  serve  in  a  deep  covered  dish,  with  green  peas  as 
an  accompaniment. 

Guinea  Fowls. 

Many  are  not  aware  what  an  excellent  article  of  food 
these  speckled  Arabs  of  the  poultry-yard  are.  They  are 
kept  chiefly  for  the  beauty  of  their  plumage,  and  their  deli- 
cious eggs,  which  are  far  richer  than  those  of  chickens. 

Unless  young  they  are  apt  to  be  tough,  and  the  dark 
color  of  the  meat  is  objected  to  by  those  who  are  not  fond 
of,  or  used  to  eating  game.  Cooked  according  to  the  fore- 
going receipt  they  are  very  savory,  no  matter  how  old  they 
may  be.  Put  them  on  early,  and  scew  slowly,  and  good 
management  will  bring  the  desired  end  to  pass.  There  is 
nothing  in  the  shape  of  game  or  poultry  that  is  not  ame- 
nable to  this  process,  providing  the  salt  be  omitted  imtil  the 
meat  is  tender. 

But  a  pair  of  yoimg  Guinea  fowls,  stufied  and  roasted, 
basting  them  with  butter  until  they  are  half  done,  deserve 
an  honorable  place  upon  our  bill  of  fare.  Season  the  gravy 
with  a  chopped  shallot,  parsley,  or  summer  savory,  not 
omitting  the  minced  giblets,  and  thicken  with  browned 
flour.  Send  around  currant,  or  other  tart  jelly,  with  the 
fowL     A  little  ham,  minced  fine,  improves  the  dressing. 

EoA5T  Goose. 

Clean  and  wash  the  goose — not  forgetting  to  put  a  spoon- 
full  of  soda  in  next  to  the  last  water,  rinse  out  well,  and 
wipe  the  inside  quite  dry.  Add  to  the  usual  stuffing  of 
bread-crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  etc.,  a  tablespoonful  melted  but- 


96  COMMON   SEK8K. 

ter,  a  large-sized  onion  chopped  fine,  a  tablespoonful  chop- 
ped sage,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  some  minute  bits  of  fat 
pork.  Stuff  body  and  craw,  and  sew  up.  It  will  take  fully 
two  hours  to  roast,  if  the  fire  is  strong.  Cover  the  breast 
imtil  it  is  half  done  with  white  paper,  or  a  paste  of  flour  and 
water,  removing  this  when  you  are  ready  to  brown. 

Make  a  gravy  as  for  roast  duck,  adding  a  glass  of  sherry 
or  Madeira,  or  (if  you  can  get  it)  old  Port. 

Send  to  table  with  cranberry  or  apple  sauce. 

Goose  Pie. 

An  old  goose  is  as  nearly  good  for  nothing  as  it  is  possi- 
ble for  anything  which  was  once  valuable,  and  is  not  now 
absolutely  spoiled,  to  be.  The  best  use  to  put  it  to  is  to 
make  it  into  a  pie,  in  the  following  manner.  Put  on  the 
ancient  early  in  the  morning,  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover 
it,  unsalted,  having  cut  it  to  pieces  at  eveiy  joint.  Warm  it 
up  gradually,  and  let  it  stew — not  boil  hard — for  four  or  five 
hours.  Should  the  water  need  replenishing,  let  it  be  done 
from  the  boiling  kettle.  Parboil  a  beef's  tongue  (smoked), 
cut  into  slices  nearly  half  an  inch  thick ;  also  slice  six  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Line  a  deep  pudding-dish  with  a  good  paste  ; 
lay  in  the  pieces  of  goose,  the  giblets  chopped,  the  sliced 
tongue  and  egg,  in  consecutive  layers ;  season  with  l)epper, 
salt,  and  bits  of  butter,  and  proceed  in  this  order  until  the 
dish  is  full.  If  the  goose  is  largo,  cut  the  meat  from  the 
bones  after  stewing,  and  leave  out  the  latter  entirely.  In- 
tersperse with  strips  of  paste,  and  fill  up  with  the  gravy  in 
which  the  goose  was  stewed,  thickened  with  flour.  Cover 
with  a  thick  paste,  and  when  it  is  done,  brush  over  the  top 
with  beaten  white  of  egg. 

In  cold  weather  this  pic  will  keep  a  week,  and  is  very 
good. 


POUL'i'KY.  97 

KOAST  TlOEONS. 

Clean,  wash,  and  stuff  as  you  would  chickens.  Lay  them 
in  rows,  if  roasted  in  the  oven,  with  a  little  water  in  the 
pan  to  prevent  scorching.  Unless  they  are  very  fat,  baste 
with  butter  until  they  are  half  done,  afterwards  with  their 
own  gravy.  Thicken  the  gravy  that  drips  from  them,  and 
boil  up  once ;  then  pour  into  a  gravy-boat.  The  pigeons 
should  lie  close  together  on  the  dish. 

Stewed  Pigeons. 

Picky  draw,  clean  and  stuff  as  above  directed.  Put  the 
pigeons  in  a  deep  pot  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them, 
and  stew  gently  for  an  hour,  or  until,  testing  them  with  a 
fork,  you  find  them  tender.  Then  se^ason  with  pepper,  salt, 
a  few  blades  of  mace,  a  little  sweet  marjoram,  and  a  good 
piece  of  butter.  Stew,  or  rather  simmer,  for  five  minutes 
longer — then  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour.  Let 
it  boil  up  once ;  remove  the  pigeons,  draw  out  the  strings 
with  which  they  were  sewed  up,  and  serve,  pouring  the  hot 
gravy  over  them.  A  little  salt  pork  or  ham,  cut  into  strips, 
is  an  improvement.  This  should  be  put  in  when  the  pigeons 
have  stewed  half  an  hour. 

Broiled  Pigeons  or  Squabs. 

Young  pigeons  or  "  squabs  "  are  rightly  esteemed  a  great 
delicacy.  They  are  cleaned,  washed,  and  dried  carefully  with 
a  clean  cloth ;  then  split  down  the  back,  and  broiled  like 
chickens.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  butter  liberally 
in  dishing  them.  They  are  in  great  request  in  a  convales* 
cent's  room,  being  peculiarly  savory  and  nourishing. 

They  may,  for  a  change,  be  roasted  whole,  according  to 
the  receipt  for  roast  pigeons, 

5 


08  COMMON  8ENBB. 

Pigeon  Pie 
Is  best  made  of  wild  pigeons.  (See  Game.) 


MEATS. 

EoAST  Beef. 

The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the  sirloin  and  rib  pieces. 
The  latter  are  oftenest  used  by  small  families.  Make  your 
butcher  remove  most  of  the  bone,  and  skewer  the  meat  into 
the  shape  of  a  round.  If  you  roast  in  an  oven,  it  is  a  good 
plan  to  dash  a  small  cup  of  boiling  water  over  the  meat  in 
first  putting  it  down,  letting  it  trickle  into  the  pan.  This, 
for  a  season,  checks  the  escape  of  the  juices,  and  allows  the 
meat  to  get  warmed  through  before  the  top  dries  by  said 
escape.  If  there  is  much  fat  upon  the  upper  surface,  cover 
with  a  paste  of  flour  and  water  until  it  is  nearly  done. 
Baste  frequently,  at  firet  with  salt  and  water,  afterward  with 
the  drippings.  Allow  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  a 
pound,  if  you  like  your  meat  rare ;  more,  if  you  prefer  to 
have  it  well  done.  Some,  when  the  meat  is  almost  done, 
dredge  with  flour  and  baste  with  butter— only  once. 

Remove  the  beef,  when  quite  ready,  to  a  heated  dish ; 
skim  the  drippings ;  add  a  teacupful  of  boiling  water,  boil 
up  once,  and  send  to  table  in  a  gravy-boat.  Many  reject 
made  gravy  altogether,  and  only  serve  the  red  liquor  that 
runs  from  the  meat  into  the  dish  as  it  is  cut.  This  is  the 
practice  with  some — indeed  most  of  our  best  housekeepers. 
If  you  have  made  gravy  in  a  sauce-boat,  give  your  guest  his 
choice  between  that  and  the  juice  in  the  dish. 

Serve  with  mustard,  or  scraped  horse-radish  and  vinegar. 


BEEF.  99 

KOAST  BSEFy  WITH  YORKSHIRE   PUDDING.  »{« 

Set  a  piece  of  beef  to  roast  upon  a  griating,  or  several 
sticks  laid  across  a  dripping-pan.  Three-quarters  of  an 
hour  before  it  is  done,  mix  the  pudding  and  pour  into  the 
pan.  Continue  to  roast  the  beef,  the  dripping  meanwhile 
ialling  upon  the  latter  below.  When  both  are  done,  cut  the 
pudding  into  squares,  and  lay  around  the  meat  when  dished. 
If  there  is  much  fat  in  the  dripping-pan  before  the  pudding 
is  ready  to  be  put  in,  drain  it  off,  leaving  just  enough  to 
prevent  the  batter  from  sticking  to  the  bottom. 

Hecdptfor  Pudding, 

1  pint  of  milk. 

4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

2  cups  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Be  careful,  in  mixing,  not  to  get  the  batter  too  stiff. 

This  pudding,  which  the  cook  who  introduced  it  into  my 
family  persisted  in  calling  ^^  Av^tion  padding,"  is  very 
palatable  and  popular,  and  not  so  rich  as  would  be  thought 
from  the  manner  of  baking.  It  should  be  a  yellow-brown 
when  done. 

Beef-Steak. 

It  is  not  customary  to  fry  beef-steaks  for  people  who 
know  what  really  good  cookery  is.  To  speak  more  plainly, 
a  steak,  hiUed  by  heat  and  swimming  in  grease,  is  a  culinary 
solecism,  both  vulgar  and  indigestible. 

Cut  the  steak  thick,  at  least  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in 
thickness,  and  if  you  cannot  get  tender  meat  for  this  pur- 
pose, it  is  best  to  substitute  some  other  dish  for  it.  But 
since  tender  meat  is  not  a]|yrays  to  be  had,  if  the  piece  you 
have  purchased  is  doubtful,  lay  it  on  a  clean  cloth,  take  a 
blunt  heavy  carving-knife,  if  you  have  not  a  steak  mallet. 


100  COMMON  BENSE. 

and  back  dosdy  from  one  end  to  the  other ;  tlien  turn  and 
repeat  the  process  upon  the  other  side.  The  knife  should 
be  so  dull  you  cannot  cut  with  it,  and  the  strokes  not  the 
sixtieth  part  of  an  inch  apart.  Wipe,  but  not  wash,  and 
lay  on  a  buttered  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  very 
often  as  it  begins  to  drip.  Do  not  season  until  it  is  done, 
which  will  be  in  about  twelve  minutes,  if  the  fire  is  good 
and  the  cook  attentive.  Rub  your  hot  chafing-dish  with  a 
split  raw  onion,  lay  in  the  steak,  salt  and  pepper  on  both 
sides,  and  put  a  liberal  lump  of  butter  upon  the  upper. 
Then  put  on  a  hot  cover,  and  let  it  stand  five  minutes  to 
draw  the  juices  to  the  surface  before  it  is  eaten.  If  you 
have  neither  chafing-dish  nor  cover,  lay  the  steak  between 
two  hot  platters  for  the  same  time,  sending  to  table  without 
uncovering.  A  gridiron  fitting  under  the  grate  is  better 
than  any  other.  If  a  gridiron  is  not  at  hand,  rub  a  little 
butter  upon  the  bottom  of  a  hot,  clean  fi-ying-pan,  put  in 
the  meat,  set  over  a  bright  fire,  and  turn  frequently.  This 
will  not  be  equal  to  steak  cooked  upon  a  gridiron,  but  it  is 
infinitely  preferable  to  the  same  fried. 

I  shall  never  forget  the  wondering  distrust  with  which 
my  first  cook,  a  sable  "  professional,''  watched  me  when  I 
undei-took  to  show  her  how  to  prepare  a  steak  for  the  third 
breakfast  over  which  I  presided  as  mistress  of  ceremonies. 
And  when,  at  the  end  of  twelve  minutes,  I  removed  the 
meat,  "  rare  and  hot,"  to  the  heated  dish  in  readiness,  her 
sniff  of  lofty  contempt  was  eloquent  as  indescribable. 

"  Call  dat  cooked  !  Folks  'bout  here  would  'a  had  dat 
steak  on  by  day -break !" 

A  remark  that  has  been  recalled  to  my  mind  hundreds 
of  times  since  at  the  tables  of  so-called  capital  housewive.s. 

The  best — ^nay,  the  only  pit^ces  for  steak  are  those  known 
as  porter-house  and  sirloin.  The  former  is  the  more  highly 
esteemed  by  gourmands ;  but  a  really  tender  sirloin  is  more 


BEEF.  101 

serviceable  where  there  are  seyeral  persons  in  the  family, 
the  porter-house  having  a  narrow  strip  of  extremely  nice 
meat  lying  next  the  bone,  while  the  rest  is  often  inferior  to 
any  part  of  the  sirloin. 

m 

Beef-steak  and  Onions. 

Prepare  the  steak  as  above  directed.  While  it  is  broiling, 
put  three  or  four  chopped  onions  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  lit- 
tle beef-dripping  or  butter.  Stir  and  shake  them  briskly 
until  they  are  done,  and  begin  to  brown.  Dish  your  steak 
and  lay  the  onions  thickly  on  top.  Cover  and  let  all  stand 
five  or  six  minutes,  that  the  hot  onions  may  impart  the  re- 
quired flavor  to  the  hot  meat.  In  helping  your  guests,  in- 
quire if  they  will  take  onions  with  the  slices  of  steak  put 
upon  their  plates.  I  need  hardly  remind  the  sensible  cook 
how  necessary  it  is  to  withdraw  the  gridiron  from  the  fire 
for  an  instant,  should  the  fat  drip  upon  the  coals  below,  and 
smoke  or  blaze.  Tet  those  who  have  eaten  steaks  flavored 
with  creosote  may  thank  me  for  the  suggestion. 

Beef  A-la-hode.  »|4 

Take  a  round  of  beef;  remove  the  bone  from  the  middle, 
and  trim  away  the  tougher  bits  about  the  edges,  with  such 
gristle,  &c.,  as  you  can  reach.  Set  these  aside  for  soup- 
stock. 

Bind  the  beef  into  a  synmietrical  shape  by  passing  a 
strip  of  stout  muslin,  as  wide  as  the  round  is  high,  about  it, 
and  stitching  the  ends  together  at  one  side.  Have  ready  at 
least  a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork,  cut  into  strips  as  thick  as 
your  middle  finger,  and  long  enougli  to  reach  from  top  to 
bottom  of  the  trussed  round.  Put  a  half  pint  of  vinegar 
over  the  fire  in  a  tin  or  porcelain  saucepan ;  season  with 
three  or  four  minced  shallots  or  button  onions,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  made  mustard,  a  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  of 


102  OOMMOK  SENSE. 

cloves,  half  as  much  allspice,  half-  spoonful  black  pepper ; 
with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  minced  fbie,  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  brown  sugar.  Let  all  simmer  for  five  minutes,  then  boil 
up  once,  and  pour,  while  scalding  hot,  upon  the  strips  of 
pork,  which  should  be  laid  in  a  deep  dish.  Let  all  stand  to^ 
gether  until  cold.  Remove  the  pork  to  a  plate,  and  mix  with 
the  liquor  left  in  the  dish  enough  bread-crumbs  to  make 
a  tolerably  stiff  force-meat.  If  the  vinegar  is  very  strongs 
dilute  with  a  little  water  before  moistening  the  crumbs. 
With  a  long,  thin-bladed  knife,  make  perpendicular  incisions 
in  the  meat,  not  more  than  half  an  inch  apart,  even  nearer 
is  better;  thrust  into  these  the  strips  of  fat  pork,  so  far 
down  that  the  upper  ends  are  just  level  with  the  surface, 
and  work  into  the  cavities  with  them  a  little  of  the  force- 
meat. Proceed  thus  until  the  meat  is  fairly  riddled  and 
plugged  with  the  pork.  Fill  the  hole  from  which  the  bone 
was  taken  with  the  dressing  and  bits  of  pork ;  rub  the  up- 
per side  of  the  beef  well  with  the  spiced  force-meat.  Put 
into  a  baking-pan,  with  a  little  water  to  prevent  burning ; 
turn  a  large  pan  over  it  to  keep  in  the  steam,  and  roast 
slowly  for  five  or  six  hours,  allowing  half  an  hour  to  each 
pound  of  meat.  If  the  beef  be  tough,  you  had  better  stew 
the  round  by  putting  it  in  a  pot  with  half  enough  water  to 
cover  it.  Cover  tightly  and  stew  very  slowly  for  six  hours ; 
then  set  in  the  oven  with  the  gravy  about  it,  and  brown 
half  an  hour,  basting  frequently. 

If  you  roast  the  round,  do  not  remove  the  cover,  except 
to  baste  (and  tliis  should  be  done  often),  until  fifteen  min- 
utes before  you  draw  it  from  the  oven.  Set  away  with  the 
muslin  band  still  about  it,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  meat. 

When  cold,  lift  from  the  gravy, — which,  by  the  way, 
will  be  excellent  seasoning  for  your  soup-stock, — cut  the 
stitches  in  the  muslin  girdle,  and  remove  carefully  and 
send  the  meat  to  table,  cold,  garnished  with  parsley  and 


BEEF.  108 

naatiirtimii  blossoms.  Carve  horizontally,  in  slices  thin  as 
a  shaving.  Do  not  offer  the  outside  to  anj  one ;  but  the 
second  cut  will  be  handsomely  marbled  with  the  white 
pork,  which  appearance  should  continue  all  the  way  down. 
I  cannot  too  highly  commend  this  as  a  side-dish  at  din- 
ner, and  a  supper  and  breakfast  stand-by.  In  winter  it 
will  keep  a  week  and  more,  and  as  long  in  summer,  if  kept 
in  the  refrigerator — except  when  it  is  on  the  table. 

Bbeakfast  Stew  of  Beef.  ^ 

Cut  up  two  pounds  of  beef — not  too  lean — ^into  pieces 
an  inch  long;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  just  enough 
water  to  cover  them,  and  stew  gently  for  two  hours.  Set 
away  until  next  morning,  when  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
sweet  marjoram  or  summer  savory,  chopped  onion,  and 
parsley.  Stew  half  an  hour  longer,  and  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sauce  or  catsup,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  browned 
flour  wet  up  with  cold  water ;  finally,  if  you  wish  to  have 
it  very  good,  half  a  glass  of  wine.  Boil  up  once,  and  pour 
into  a  covered  deep  dish. 

This  is  an  economical  dish,  for  it  can  be  made  of  the 
commoner  parts  of  the  beef,  and  exceedingly  nice  for  winter 
breakfasts.  Eaten  with  corn-bread  and  stewed  potatoes,  it 
will  soon  win  its  way  to  a  place  in  the  "  stock  company  " 
of  every  judicious  housewife 

Another  Breakfast  Dish. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  roast  beef,  and  lay  them  in  a  tin 
saucepan  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Cover  them  with 
a  gravy  made  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
one  of  walnut  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  a  little  salt 
and  pepper,  a  spoonful  of  currant  jelly,  a  teaspoonful  made 
mustard,  and  some  warm  water.     Cover  tightly,  and  steam 


104  COMMON  SENSE. 

for  half  an  hour,  keeping  the  water  in  the  outer  vessel  on 
a  hard  boil. 

If  the  meat  is  under-done,  this  is  particularly  nice. 

Beef  Hash. 

To  two  parts  cold  roast  or  boiled  corned  beef,  chopped 
fine,  put  one  of  mashed  potatoes,  a  little  pepper,  salt,  milk, 
and  melted  butter.  Turn  all  into  a  frying-pan,  and  stir  un- 
til it  is  heated  through  and  smoking  hot,  but  not  until  it 
browns.  Put  into  a  deep  dish,  and  if  stiff  enough,  shape 
as  you  would  mashed  potato,  into  a  hillock. 

Or,  you  can  cease  stining  for  a  few  minutes,  and  let 
a  brown  crust  form  on  the  under  side;  then  turn  out 
whole  into  a  flat  dish,  the  brown  side  uppermost. 

Or,  mould  the  mixture  into  flat  cakes;  dip  these  in 
beaten  eggs  and  fry  in  hot  drippings. 

The  remains  of  beef  a-la-mode  ai'e  very  good  prepared 
in  any  of  these  ways.  A  little  catsup  and  mustard  are  an 
improvement  to  plain  cold  beef,  thus  hashed. 

Beef-steak  Fie. 

Cut  the  steak  into  pieces  an  inch  long,  and  stew  with 
the  bone  (cracked)  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  the  meat 
until  it  is  half  done.  At  the  same  time  parboil  a  dozen 
potatoes  in  another  pot.  If  you  wish  a  bottom  crust — a 
doubtful  question — line  a  pudding-dish  with  a  good  paste, 
made  according  to  the  receipt  given  below.  Put  in  a  layer 
of  the  beef,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  very  little  chopped 
onion;  then  one  of  sliced  potatoes,  with  a  little  butter 
scattered  upon  them,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is  full. 
Pour  over  all  the  gi'uvy  in  which  the  meat  is  stewed,  hav- 
ing first  thrown  away  the  bone  and  thickened  with  browned 
flour.  Cover  with  a  crust  thicker  than  the  lower,  leaving 
a  sHt  in  the  middle. 


BEEF  105 

CfiisbT  FOR  Meat-Pies.  9^ 

1  quart  of  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  lard. 

2^  cups  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda  wet  with  hot  water,  and 
stirred  into  the  milk. 

2  teaspoonfiils  of  cream-tartar  sifted  into  the  dry 
flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Work  up  very  lightly  and  quickly,  and  do  not  get 
too  stifll 

Beef-Pie,  with  Potato  Cbust.  »j^ 

Mince  a»me  rare  roast  beef  or  cold  corned  beef,  if  it  is 
not  too  salt;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  spread  a 
layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding-dish.  Over  this  put  one 
of  mashed  potato,  and  stick  bits  of  butter  thickly  all  over 
it ;  then  another  of  meat,  and  so  on  until  you  are  ready 
for  the  crust. 

To  a  large  cupful  of  mashed  potato  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter,  a  well-beaten  egg,  two  cups  of  milk, 
and  beat  all  together  until  very  light.  Then  work  in 
enough  flour  to  enable  you  to  roll  out  in  a  sheet — not  too 
stifl — and,  when  you  have  added  to  the  meat  and  potato  in 
the  dish  a  gravy  made  of  warm  water,  butter,  milk,  and 
cat<mp,  with  what  cold  grkvy  or  dripping  remains  from  the 
"  roast,"  cover  the  pie  with  a  thick,  tender  crust,  cutting  a 
slit  in  the  middle. 

You  can  use  the  potato  crust,  which  is  very  wholesome 
and  good,  for  any  kind  of  meat-pie.  It  looks  well  brushed 
over  with  beaten  white  of  egg  before  it  goes  to  table, 

5* 


106  GOliMON  BEN8E. 

Beef's  Heart. 

Wash  the  heart  well,  and  ciit  into  squares  half  an  inch 
long.  Stew  them  for  ten  minutes  in  enough  water  to  cover 
them.  Salt  the  water  slightly  to  draw  out  the  blood,  and 
throw  it  away  as  it  rises  in  scum  to  the  top.  Take  out  the 
meat,  strain  the  liquor,  and  return  the  chopped  heart  to  it, 
with  a  sliced  onion,  a  great  spoonful  of  catsup,  some  pars- 
ley, a  head  of  celery  chopped  fine,  and  cayenne  pepper, 
with  a  large  lump  of  butter.  Stew  until  the  meat  is  very 
tender,  when  add  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  to 
thicken.     Boil  up  once,  and  serve. 

To  Corn  Beef. 

Kub  each  piece  of  beef  well  with  salt  mixed  with  one- 
tenth  part  of  saltpetre,  until  the  salt  lies  dry  upon  the  sur- 
face. Put  aside  in  a  cold  place  for  twenty-four  hours,  and 
repeat  the  process,  rubbing  in  the  mixture  very  thoroughly. 
Put  away  again  until  the  next  day,  by  which  time  the 
pickle  should  be  ready. 

5  gallons  of  water. 
1  gallon  of  salt. 
4  ounces  8altj>etre. 
H  lb.  brown  sugar. 

Boil  this  brine  ten  minutes ;  let  it  get  perfectly  cold  ;  then 
pour  over  the  beef,  having  wiped  the  latter  entirely  dry. 

Examine  the  pickle  from  time  to  time  to  see  if  it  keeps 
well ;  if  not,  take  out  the  meat  without  delay,  wipe  it,  and 
rub  in  dry  salt,  covering  it  well  until  you  can  prepare  new 
and  stronger  brine. 

Boiled  Corned  Beef. 

If  your  piece  is  a  round,  skewer  it  well  into  shape,  and 
tie  it  up  with  stout  tape  or  twine  when  you  have  washed  it 


BEEF.  107 

in  three  or  four  waters  and  removed  all  the  salt  from  the 
outside.  Put  into  a  pot,  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Al- 
low, in  boiling,  about  twenty  minutes  to  a  pound.  Turn 
the  meat  three  times  while  cooking. 

When  done,  drain  very  dry,  and  serve-  with  drawn  but- 
ter in  a  sauce-boat.  Send  around  mashed  turnips  with  the 
meat.  They  should  be  boiled  in  a  separate  pot,  however, 
or  they  will  impart  a  disagreeable  taste  to  the  beef. 

The  brisket  is  a  good  piece  for  a  fiajnily  dinner. 

Beef  Tongue. 

Soak  over  night  in  cold  water  when  you  have  washed 
it  well.  Next  morning  put  into  a  pot  with  plenty  of  cold 
water,  and  boil  slowly  until  it  is  tender  throughout.  This 
you  can  determine  by  testing  it  with  a  fork. 

When  it  is  cold,  pare  off  the  thick  skin,  cut  in  round 
slices,  and  dish  for  tea,  garnishing  with  fresh  parsley. 

Tongue  sandwiches  are  generally  held  in  higher  esteem 
than  those  made  of  ham. 

Dried  Beef. 

The  most  common  way  of  servuig  dried  or  smoked 
beef  is  to  shave  it  into  thin  slices  or  chips,  raw ;  but  a 
more  savory  relish  may  be  made  of  it  with  little  trouble. 

Put  the  slices  of  uncooked  beef  into  a  frying-pan  with 
just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them ;  set  them  over 
the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  drain  off  all  the  water,  and  with  a 
knife  and  fork  cut  the  meat  into  small  bits.  B«tum  to 
the  pan,  which  should  be  hot,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter and  a  little  pepper.  Have  ready  some  well-beaten  eggs, 
allowing  four  to  a  half-pound  of  beef;  stir  them  into  the 
pan  with  the  minced  meat,  and  toss  and  stir  the  mixture 
for  about  two  minutes.     Send  to  table  in  a  covered  dish. 


108  OOMMOK  8EN8S. 

MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 
Roast  Mutton. 

The  parts  which  are  usually  roasted  are  : — 

The  shouldery 

The  saddle,  or  chine,  and 

The  loin  and  haunch  (a  leg  and  part  of  the  loin). 

The  leg  is  best  boiled,  unless  the  mutton  is  young  and 
very  tender.  Wash  the  meat  well,  and  dry  with  a  clean 
cloth.  Let  your  fire  be  clear  and  strong ;  put  the  meat  on 
with  a  little  water  in  the  dripping>pan.  If  you  think  well 
of  the  plan  (and  I  do),  let  this  be  a  cupful  of  boiling  water 
dashed  over  the  meat  when  it  is  first  put  down  to  roast, 
and  left  to  trickle  into  the  pan.  I  have  elsewhere  explained 
the  advantages  of  the  method.  Allow,  in  roasting,  about 
twelve  minutes  per  pound,  if  the  fire  is  good.  Baste  often 
— at  first  with  salt  and  water,  afterward  with  the  gravy.  ^ 
If  it  is  in  danger  of  browning  too  fiast,  cover  with  a  large 
sheet  of  white  paper.  Boast  lamb  in  the  same  manner, 
but  not  so  long.  Skim  the  gravy  well,  and  thicken  very 
slightly  with  browned  flour.     Serve  with  currant  jelly. 

Roast  Muttok  a  la  Venison. 

A  Christmas  saddle  of  mutton  is  very  fine,  prepared  as 
follows  :  Wash  it  weU,  inside  and  out,  with  vinegar.  Do 
not  wipe  it,  but  hang  it  up  to  dry  in  a  cool  cellar.  When 
the  vinegar  has  diied  off,  throw  a  clean  cloth  over  it,  to 
keep  out  the  dust.  On  the  next  day  but  one,  take  down 
the  meat  and  sponge  it  over  again  with  vinegar,  then  put 
it  back  in  its  place  in  the  cellar.  Repeat  this  process  three 
times  a  week  for  a  fortnight,  keeping  the  meat  hung  in  a 
cold  place,  and  covered,  except  while  you  are  washing  it. 
When  you  are  ready  to  cook  it,  wipe  it  off  with  a  dry 
cloth,  but  do  not  wash  it.     Roast — basting  for  the  first 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB.  109 

hour  -with  butter  and  water;  afterward  with  the  gravy, 
and  keeping  the  meat  covered  with  a  large  tin  pan  for  two 
hours.  A  large  saddle  of  mutton  will  require  four  hours  to 
roast.  When  it  is  done,  remove  to  a  dish,  and  cover  to 
keep  it  hot.  Skim  the  gravy,  and  add  half  a  teacupful 
of  walnut,  mushroom,  or  tomato  catsup,  a  glass  of  Ma- 
deira wine,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour.  Boil 
up  once,  and  send  to  table  in  a  sauce-boat.  Always  send 
around  currant  or  some  other  tart  jelly  with  roast  mutton. 
If  properly  cooked,  a  saddle  of  mutton,  prepared  in  accord- 
ance with  these  directions,  will  strongly  resemble  venison 
in  taste.  An  old  Virginia  gentleman  whom  I  used  to 
know,  always  hung  up  the  flnest  saddle  his  plantation 
could  furnish  six  weeks  before  Christmas,  and  had  it 
sponged  oflf  with  vinegar  every  other  day,  until  the  morn- 
ing of  the  important  25th  ;  and  the  excellence  of  his  mut- 
ton was  the  talk  of  the  neighborhood.  It  can  certainly  be 
kept  a  fortnight  anywhere  at  that  season. 

Boiled  Mutton. 

Wash  a  leg  of  mutton  clean,  and  wipe  dry.  Do  not 
leave  the  knuckle  and  shank  so  long  as  to  be  unshapely. 
Put  into  a  pot  with  hot  water  (salted)  enough  to  cover  it, 
and  boil  until  you  ascertain,  by  probing  with  a  fork,  that 
it  is  tender  in  the  thickest  part.  Skim  off  all  the  scimi  as 
it  rises.  Allow  ahout  twelve  minutes  to  each  pound.  Take 
from  the  fire,  drain  perfectly  dry,  and  serve  with  melted 
butter,  with  capers,  or  nasturtium  seed ;  or,  if  you  have 
neither  of  these,  some  cucumber  or  gherkin-pickle  stirred 
into  it.  If  you  wish  to  use  the  broth  for  soup,  put  in  very 
little  salt  while  boiling ;  if  not,  salt  well,  and  boil  the  meat 
in  a  cloth. 


110  COMMON   SEN8E. 

Mutton  Stew.  »J^ 

Cut  up  from  three  to  four  pounds  of  mutton, — ^the  in- 
ferior portions  will  do  as  well  as  any  other, — crack  the 
bones,  and  remove  all  the  fat.  Put  on  the  meat — ^the 
pieces  not  more  than  an  inch  and  a  half  in  length — ^in  a  pot 
with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  well,  and  set  it  where  it 
will  heat  gradually.  Add  nothing  else  until  it  has  stewed 
an  hour,  closely  covered ;  then  throw  in  half  a  pound  of 
salt  pork  cut  into  strips,  a  chopped  onion,  and  some  pep- 
per ;  cover  and  stew  an  hour  longer,  or  until  the  meat  is 
very  tender.  Make  out  a  little  paste,  as  for  the  crust  of 
a  meat-pie ;  cut  into  squares,  and  drop  in  the  stew.  Boil 
ten  minutes,  and  season  further  by  the  addition  of  a  little 
parsley  and  thyme.  Thicken  with  two  spoonfuls  of  flour 
stirred  into  a  cup  of  cold  milk.  Boil  up  once,  and  serve 
in  a  tureen  or  deep  covered  dish. 

K  green  com  is  in  season,  this  stew  is  greatly  improved 
by  adding,  an  hour  before  it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  the 
grains  of  half  a  dozen  ears,  cut  from  the  cob. 

Try  it  for  a  cheap  family  dinner,  and  you  will  repeat 
the  experiment  often.  Lamb  is  even  better  for  your  pur- 
pose than  mutton. 

Mutton  Chops. 

If  your  butcher  has  not  done  it, — and  the  chances  are 
that  he  has  not,  unless  you  stood  by  to  see  it  attended  to, — 
trim  oif  the  superfluous  fat  and  skin,  so  as  to  give  the 
chops  a  certain  litheness  and  elegance  of  shape.  Dip  each 
in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  pounded  cracker,  and  fry  in  hot  lard 
or  dripping.  If  the  fat  is  imsalted,  sprinkle  the  chops 
with  salt  before  rolling  in  the  egg.     Serve  up  dry  and  hot. 

Or, 

You  may  omit  the  egg  and  cracker,  and  broil  on  a  gridiron 
over  a  bright  fire.     Put  a  little  salt  and  pepper  upon  each 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB.  Ill 

thop,  and  butter  them  before  they  go  to  table.     Cook  lamb 
chops  in  the  same  way. 

Mutton  Cutlets.     {Baked,) 

Cut  them  from  the  neck,  and  trim  neatly.  Lay  aside 
the  bits  of  bone  and  meat  you  cut  off,  to  make  gravy. 
Pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  the  cutlets,  and  let  them 
lie  in  it  for  fifteen  minutes,  keeping  them  just  warm  enough 
to  prevent  the  butter  from  hardening ;  then  dip  each  in 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker-crumbs,  and  lay  them  in  your 
dripping-pan  with  a  very  little  water  at  the  bottom.  Bake 
quickly,  and  baste  often  with  butter  and  water.  Put  on 
the  bones,  &c.,  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them ;  stew, 
and  season  with  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  and  salt,  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  tomato  catsup.  Strain  when  aU  the  substance  is 
extracted  from  the  meat  and  bones ;  thicken  with  browned 
flour,  and  pour  over  the  cutlets  when  they  are  served. 

Mutton  Ham. 

For  a  leg  of  mutton  weighing  12  lbs.,  take—- 

1  ounce  of  black  pepper,  or  ^  ounce  of  cayenne, 
\  lb.  brown  sugar, 
1  ounce  saltpetre, 
l\  lb.  salt. 

The  day  after  the  sheep  is  killed,  mix  the  sugar,  pepper, 
and  saltpetre,  and  rub  well  into  the  meat  for  nearly  fifteen 
minutes,  until  the  outer  part  of  it  is  thoroughly  impreg- 
nated with  the  seasoning.  Put  the  ham  into  a  large  earth- 
enware vessel,  and  cover  it  with  the  salt.  Let  it  remain 
thus  for  three  weeks,  turning  it  every  day  and  basting  it 
with  the  brine ;  adding  to  this,  after  the  first  week,  a  tea- 
cupful  of  vinegar.  When  the  ham  is  removed  from  the 
pickle,  wash  with  cold  water,  then  with  vinegar,  and  hang 


112  COMMON   SENSE. 

it  up  in  a  cool  cellar  for  a  week,  at  least,  before  it  is 
used. 

Soak  an  hour  in  fair  water  before  boiling. 

Or  if  you  choose  to  smoke  it  for  several  days  after  it  is 
corned,  it  can  be  chipped  and  eaten  raw,  like  jerked  ven- 
ison or  dried  beef. 

Most  of  the  receipts  above  given  will  apply  as  well  to 
lamb  as  to  mutton.  There  are  several  exceptions,  however, 
which  you  will  do  well  to  note.  Lamb  should  never  be 
boiled  except  in  stews.  It  is  tasteless  and  sodden  cooked 
in  this  manner,  on  account  of  its  immaturity.  But,  on  the 
other  hand,  a  lamb-pie,  prepared  like  one  of  beef  or  ven- 
ison, is  excellent,  while  mutton-pies  have  usually  a  strong, 
tallowy  taste,  that  spoils  them  for  delicate  palates. 

Boast  lamb  should  be  eaten  with  mint  sauce  (if  you 
fancy  it),  currant  jelly,  and  asparagus  or  green  peas.  Let- 
tuce-salad is  likewise  a  desirable  accompaniment. 

Mutton  or  Lamb  RECHAurrfi.  »j^ 

Cut  some  slices  of  cold  underdone  mutton  or  lamb ;  put 
them  in  a  frying-pan  with  enough  gravy  or  broth  to  cover 
them.  Or,  if  you  have  neither  of  them,  make  a  gravy  of 
butter,  warm  water,  and  catsup.  Heat  to  boiling,  and  stir 
in  pepper  and  a  great  spoonful  of  currant  jelly.  Send  to 
table  in  a  chafing-dish,  with  the  gravy  poured  about  the 
meat. 

Or, 

You  can  put  a  lump  of  the  butter  in  the  bottom  of  the 
pan,  and  when  it  boils,  lay  in  the  slices  of  meat,  turning 
them  before  they  have  time  to  crisp.  As  soon  as  they  are 
thoroughly  heated  take  them  out,  lay  upon  a  hot  dish, 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  with  a  small  spoon- 
ful of  jelly  laid  upon  each. 


VEAL.  113 


VEAL. 


Despite  the  prejudice,  secret  or  expressed,  which  pre- 
vails in  many  minds  against  veal, — one  which  the  wise  and 
witty  "Country  Parson"  has  as  surely  fostered  among 
reading  people,  as  did  Charles  Lamb  the  partiality  for 
roast  pig, — the  excellent  and  attractive  dishes  that  own  this 
as  their  base  are  almost  beyond  number.  For  soups  it  is 
invaluable,  and  in  entrees  and  recfiavffes  it  plays  a  distin- 
guished part.  Prom  his  head  to  his  feet,  the  animal  that 
furnishes  us  with  this  important  element  of  success  in  what 
should  be  the  prime  object  of  cookery,  to  wit,  to  please 
while  we  nourish,  has  proved  himself  so  useful  as  an  ally 
that  it  behooves  us  to  lift  the  stigma  from  the  name  of 
*'  calf,"  provided  he  be  not  too  infantine.  In  that  case  he 
degenerates  into  an  insipid  mass  of  pulpy  muscle  and  gela- 
tine, and  deserves  the  bitterest  sneers  that  have  been  flimg 

at  his  kind. 

Roast  Veal. 

LOIN. 

Veal  I'equires  a  longer  time  to  roast  than  mutton  or 
lamb.  It  is  fair  to  allow  at  least  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to 
each  pound.  Heat  gradually,  baste  fi'equently — at  fb^t 
with  salt  and  water,  afterward  with  gravy.  When  the 
meat  is  nearly  done,  dredge  lightly  with  flour,  and  baste 
once  with  melted  butter.  Skim  the  gra^T" ;  thicken  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  boil  up,  and  put  into  the  gravy-boat. 

'Should  the  meat  brown  too  fiast,  cover  with  white  paper. 
The  juices,  which  make  up  the  characteristic  flavor  of  meat, 
are  ofiener  dried  out  of  veal  than  any  other  flesh  that  comes 
to  our  tables. 

BREAST. 

Make  incisions  between  the  ribs  and  the  meat,  and  fill 
with  a  force-meat  made  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  bits  of  pork 


114:  COMMON   BENSE. 

or  ham  chopped  "exceeding  small,"  salt,  pepper,  thyme, 
sweet  marjoram,  and  beaten  egg.  Save  a  little  to  thicken 
the  gravy.  Koast  slowly,  basting  often,  and  the  verdict  of 
the  eaters  will  differ  from  theirs  who  pronounce  this  the 
coarsest  part  of  t^e  veal.  Dredge,  at  the  last,  with  flour, 
and  baste  well  once  with  butter,  as  with  the  loin. 

FILLET. 

Make  ready  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  chopped  thyme^ 
and  parsley ;  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  rubbed  to- 
gether with  some  melted  butter  or  beef  suet ;  moisten  with 
milk  or  hot  water,  and  bind  with  a  beaten  egg. 

Take  out  the  bone  from  the  meat,  and  pin  securely  into 
a  round  with  skewera;  then  pass  a  stout  twine  several 
times  about  the  fillet,  or  a  band  of  muslin.  Fill  the  cavity 
from  which  the  bone  was  taken  with  this  stufBng,  and  thrust 
between  the  folds  of  the  meat,  besides  making  incisions 
with  a  thin,  sharp  knife  to  receive  it.  Once  in  a  while 
slip  in  a  strip  of  fat  pork  or  ham.  Baste  at  first  with  salt 
and  water,  afterward  with  giavy.  At  the  last,  dredge  with 
flour  and  baste  with  butter. 

SnOULDEB. 

Stuff  as  above,  making  horizontal  incisions  near  the 
bone  to  receive  the  dressing,  and  roast  in  like  manner. 

Veal  Cutlets. 

Dip  in  beaten  egg  when  you  have  sprinkled  a  little 
pepper  and  salt  over  them ;  then  roll  in  cracker-crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  dripping  or  lard.  If  you  use  butter  or  drip- 
ping, add  a  little  boiling  water  to  the  gravy  when  the  meat 
is  dished ;  thicken  with  browned  flour,  boil  up  once,  send- 
ing to  table  in  a  boat. 


TBAL.  115 

Or, 

You  can  rub  the  cutlets  well  with  melted  butter,  pepper, 
and  broil  on  a  gridiron  like  beef-steak,  buttering  very  weU 
after  dishing. 

Veal  Chops 

Are  more  juicy  and  less  apt  to  be  tough  and  solid  than  cut- 
lets. Trim  the  bone  as  with  mutton  chops,  and  &y,  dip- 
ping in  beaten  egg  and  cracker-crumbs.  Add  a  little  pars- 
ley aud  a  minced  shallot  to  the  gravy. 

Yeal  Steak. 

This  should  be  thinner  than  beef-steak,  and  be  done 
throughout.  Few  persons  are  fond  of  rare  veal.  Broil 
upon  a  well-greased  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  and  turn  fre- 
quently while  the  steaks  are  cooking.  Put  into  a  saucepan 
four  or  five  young  onions  minced  fine,  a  great  teaspoonful 
of  tomato  catsup,  or  twice  the  quantity  of  stewed  tomato, 
a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  thyme  or 
parsley,  with  a  small  teacupful  of  hot  water.  Let  them 
stew  together  while  the  steaks  are  broiling,  thickening,  be- 
fore you  turn  the  gravy  out,  with  a  spoonful  of  browned 
flour.  Add,  if  you  please,  a  half-glass  of  wine.  Boil  up 
once  hard,  and  when  the  steaks  are  dished,  with  a  small  bit 
of  batter  upon  each,  pour  the  mixture  over  and  around 
them. 

Spinach  is  as  natural  an  accompaniment  to  veal  as  are 
green  peas  to  lamb. 

Veal  Pies. 

Let  your  veal  be  juicy  and  not  too  fat.  Take  out  all 
the  bone,  and  put  with  the  fat  and  refuse  bits,  such  as  skin 
or  gristle,  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  large  teacupful  of  cold  wa- 
ter to  make  gravy.     Listead  of  chopping  the  veal,  cut  in 


IIG  OOHHOK  8EN6E. 

thin,  oven  slicos.  line  a  pudding-dish  with  a  good  paste, 
and  put  a  layer  off  veal  in  the  bottom ;  then  one  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs  sliced,  each  piece  buttered  and  peppered  before 
it  is  laid  upon  the  veal ;  cover  these  with  sliced  ham  or 
thin  strips  of  salt  pork.  Squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon- 
juice  upon  the  ham.  Then  another  layer  of  veal,  and  so 
on  until  you  are  ready  for  the  gravy.  This  should  have 
been  stewing  for  half  an  hour  or  so,  with  the  addition  of 
pepper  and  a  bunch  of  aromatic  herbs.  Strain  through  a 
thin  cloth  and  {)Our  over  the  pie.     Cover  with  crust  and 

bake  two  hours. 

Or, 

Butter  a  large  bowl  very  thickly,  and  line  with  sliced  hartl- 
boiled  eggs.  Then  put  in,  in  perpendicular  layers,  a  lining 
of  veal  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  seasoned  with  pepper.  Next, 
one  of  sliced  ham,  each  slice  peppered  and  sprinkled  with 
lemon-juice,  more  veal  and  more  ham,  until  the  dish  is 
packed  to  the  brim.  Cover  with  a  thick  paste  made  of 
ilour  and  hot  water,  just  stiff  enough  to  handle  with  ease. 
Press  this  closely  to  the  outside  of  the  bowl,  which  should 
not  be  at  all  greasy.  Let  it  overlap  the  rim  about  half  an 
inch.  Some  cooks  substitute  a  cloth  well  floured,  but  it 
does  not  keep  in  the  essence  of  the  meats  as  well  as  the 
paste.  Set  the  bowl  in  a  pot  of  hot  water,  not  so  deep  that 
it  will  bubble  over  the  top.  It  is  better  that  it  should  not 
touch  the  paste  rim.  Boil  steadily — not  hard — for  at  least 
three  hours.  Kemove  the  paste  the  next  day,  when  bowl 
and  contents  are  perfectly  cold,  and  turn  out  the  pie  into  a 
large  plate  or  flat  dish.  Cut  in  circular  slices — thin  as  a 
wafer — ^beginning  at  the  top,  keeping  your  carver  hoiizon- 
tal,  and  you  have  a  delicious  relish  for  the  supper-table,  or 
side-dish  for  dinner.  Set  in  a  cool  place,  and  in  winter  it 
will  keep  several  days. 

This  is  the  "  weal  and  hammer  pie  "  endorsed  by  Mr. 


VEAL.  117 

"Wegg  as  a  good  thiiag  "  for  mellering  the  organ,"  and  is  a 
great  favorite  in  England.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  butter  the 
eggs  as  well  as  the  dish,  as  much  of  the  success  of  the  pie 
depends  upon  the  manner  in  which  it  is  turned  out.  Also, 
upon  the  close  packing  of  the  sliced  meat.  The  salt  ham 
prevents  the  need  of  ottier  salt. 

Stewed  Fillet  op  Yeal. 

Stuff,  and  bind  with  twine  as  for  roasting.  Then  cover 
the  top  and  sides  with  sliced  ham  which  Ylob  been  already 
boiled,  securing  with  skewers,  or  twine  crossing  the  meat 
in  all  directions.  Lay  in  a  pot,  put  in  two  large  cups  of 
boiling  water,  cover  immediately  and  closely,  and  stew 
gently — ^never  letting  it  cease  to  boil,  yet  never  boiling  hard, 
for  four  or  hve  hours.  A  large  fillet  will  require  nearly 
five  hours.  Remove  the  cover  as  seldom  as  possible,  and 
only  to  ascertain  whether  the  water  has  boiled  away.  If 
it  is  too  low,  replenish  from  the  boiling  kettle.  Take  off 
the  strings  when  the  meat  is  done  ;  arrange  the  ham  about 
the  fillet  in  the  dish,  and  serve  a  bit  with  each  slice  of  veal. 
Strain  the  gravy,  thicken  with  flour,  boil  up  once,  and  isend 
in  a  boat. 

Serve  with  stewed  tomatoes  and  spinach. 

Stewed  Knuckle  of  Veal. 

Put  the  meat  into  a  pot  with  two  quarts  of  boiling  wa- 
ter, half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  or  ham  cut  into  stiij)s,  a 
caiTot,  two  onions,  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  one  of  summer 
savory — all  cut  fine — two  dozen  whole  pepper-corns,  and 
stew,  closely  covered,  for  three  hours.  When  done,  take 
the  meat  from  the  pot  and  lay  in  the  dish.  Strain  the 
gravy,  thicken  with  rice-flour,  boil  up  once,  and  pour  over 
the  meat. 


118  OOMMON  SENSE. 

Yeal  Scallop.  4* 

Chop  some  cold  roast  or  stewed  veal  very  fine,  put  a 
layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Next  have  a  layer  of  finely  powder- 
ed crackers.  Strew  some  bits  of  butter  upon  it  and  wet 
with  a  little  milk ;  then  more  veal  seasoned  as  before,  and 
another  round  of  cracker-crumbs,  with  butter  and  milk. 
When  the  dish  is  full,  wet  well  with  gravy  or  broth,  dilu- 
ted with  wani|  water.  Spread  over  all  a  thick  layer  of 
cracker  seasoned  with  salt,  wet  into  a  paste  with  milk  and 
bound  with  a  beaten  egg  or  two,  if  the  dish  be  large.  Stick 
butter-bits  thickly  over  it ;  invert  a  tin  pan  so  as  to  cover 
all  and  keep  in  the  steam,  and  bake — ^if  small,  half  an  hour  ; 
three-quarters  will  suffice  for  a  large  dish.  Kemove  the 
cover  ten  minutes  before  it  is  served,  and  brown. 

This  simple  and  economical  dish  should  be  an  acquaint- 
ance with  all  who  are  fond  of  veal  in  any  shape.  Children 
generally  like  it  exceedingly,  and  I  have  heard  more  than 
one  gentleman  of  excellent  judgment  in  culinary  affairs 
declare  that  the  best  thing  he  knew  about  roast  veal  y  as 
that  it  was  the  harbinger  of  scallop  on  the  second  day. 

Try  it,  and  do  not  get  it  too  dry. 

Veal  PAt^s. 

Mince  the  veal  as  above,  and  roll  three  or  four  cracl  3rs 
to  powder.  Also,  chop  up  some  cold  ham  and  mix  vith 
the  veal  in  the  proportion  of  one-third  ham  and  two-thirds 
veal.  Then  add  the  cracker,  and  wet  well  with  gravy  and 
a  little  milk.  If  you  have  no  gravy,  stir  into  a  cup  of  hot 
milk  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  beaten  egg.  Sea- 
son well  to  your  taste,  and  bake  in  pat6  pans  lined  ^th 
puff-paste.  If  eaten  hot,  send  to  table  in  the  tins.  li  5old, 
slip  the  p&tes  out  and  pile  upon  a  plate,  with  sprigs  of  para- 


VEAL.  119 

ley  between.     A.  little  oyster-liquor  iB  a  marked  improve- 
ment  to  the  gravy. 

Stewed  Calp's-BEead. 

• 

Wash  the  head  in  several  waters,  and  taking  out  the 
brains,  set  them  by  in  a  oool  place.  Tie  the  head  in  a  flour- 
ed doth  and  boil  it  two  hours  in  hot  water  slightly  salted. 
Wash  the  brains  carefully,  picking  out  all  the  bits  of  skin 
and  membrane,  cleansing  them  over  and  over  until  they 
are  perfectly  white.  Then  stew  in  just  enough  water  to 
cover  them.  Take  them  out,  mash  smooth  with  the  back 
of  a  wooden  spoon,  and  add  gradually,  that  it  may  not 
lump,  a  small  teacupful  of  the  water  in  which  the  head  is 
boiled.  Season  with  chopped  parsley,  a  pinch  of  sage,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  powdered  cloves,  with  a  great  spoonful  of  but- 
ter. Set  it  over  the  fire  to  ummer  in  a  saucepan  until  you 
are  ready.  When  the  head  is  tender,  take  it  up  and  drain 
very  dry.  Score  the  top,  and  rub  it  well  over  with  melted 
butter ;  dredge  with  flour  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown. 
Or,  you  can  use  beaten  egg  and  cracker-crumbs  in  place  of 
the  butter  and  flour. 

When  you  serve  the  head,  pour  the  gravy  over  it. 

Never  skin  a  calTs-head.  Scald  as  you  would  that  of 
a  pig.  A  little  lye  in  the  water  will  remove  the  hair — ^as 
will  also  pounded  rosin,  applied  before  it  is  put  into  the  water. 

Calf'8,Heab.  {ScaUcped),  4* 

dean  the  head,  remove  the  brains,  and  set  in  a  cool 
place.  Boil  the  head  until  the  meat  slips  easily  from  the 
bones.  Take  it  out  and  chop  fine,  season  with  herbs,  pep- 
per, and  salt ;  then  put  in  layers  into  a  buttered  pudding- 
dish  with  bits  of  butter  between  each  layer.  Moisten  well 
with  the  liquor  in  which  the  head  was  boiled.  Wash  the 
brains  very  thoroughly,  removing  all  the  membrane.     Beat 


120  COMMON   8ENBE. 

them  into  a  Bmooth  paste,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
stir  in  with  them  two  eggs  beaten  very  light.  Spread  this 
evenly  over  the  scallop,  dredge  the  top  with  a  little  flour, 
and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown.  Half  an  hour  will  be  long 
enough. 

SwEET-BiiEADS  {Fried),  »J« 

Wash  very  carefully,  and  dry  with  a  linen  cloth.  Lard 
with  narrow  strips  of  fat  salt  pork,  set  closely  together.  Use 
for  this  purpose  a  larding- needle.  Lay  the  sweet-breads  in 
a  clean,  hot  frying-pan,  which  has  been  well  buttered  or 
greased,  and  cook  to  a  fine  brown^  turning  frequently  until 
the  pork  is  crisp. 

Sweet-Breads  (Broiled),  4* 

Parboil,  rub  them  well  with  butter,  and  broil  on  a  clean 
gridiron.  Turn  frequently,  and  now  and  then  roll  over  in 
a  plate  containing  some  hot  melted  butter.  This  will  pre- 
vent them  fi'om  getting  too  dry  and  hard. 

Sweet-Breads  {Stewed),  tf* 

When  you  have  washed  them,  and  removed  all  bits  of 
skin  and  fatty  matter,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  heat  to  a 
boil.  Pour  off  the  hot  water,  and  cover  with  cold  until  the 
s>«^eet-breads  are  firm.  If  you  desire  to  have  them  very 
rich,  lard  as  for  frying  before  you  put  in  the  second  wat^r. 
They  ai-e  more  delicate,  however,  if  the  pork  be  left  out. 
Stew  in  a  veiy  little  water  the  second  time.  When  they 
are  tender,  add  for  each  sweet-bread  a  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  butter,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  with  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  a  little  cream.  Let  them  simmer  in  this  gravy  for 
five  minutes,  then  take  them  up.  Send  to  table  in  a  covered 
dish,  with  the  gravy  poured  over  them. 

If  you  lard  the  sweet-breads,  substitute  for  the  ci'eam  in 


TEAL.  121 

the  grayy  a  glass  of  good  wine*  In  this  case,  take  the 
sweet-breads  out  before  it  is  put  into  the  gravy.  Boil  up 
onoe  and  pour  over  them. 

Sweet-Bbeads  {Boasted). 

Parboil  and  throw  into  cold  water,  where  let  them  stand 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  change  to  more  cold  water  for 
five  minutes  longer.  Wipe  perfectly  dry.  Lay  them  in 
your  dripping-pan,  and  roast,  basting  with  butter  and  water 
until  they  begin  to  brown.  Then  withdraw  them  for  an 
instant,  roll  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker-crumbs,  and  re- 
turn to  the  fire  for  ten  minutes  longer,  basting  meanwhile 
twice  with  melted  butter.  Lay  in  a  chafing-dish  while  you 
add  to  the  dripping  half  a  cup  hot  water,  some  chopped 
parsley,  a  teaspoonful  browned  flour,  and  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon.     Four  over  the  sweet-breads  before  sending  to 

table. 

Jellied  Veal. 

Wash  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  cut  it  into  thi'ee  pieces. 
Boil  it  slowly  until  the  meat  will  slip  easily  from  the  bones ; 
take  out  of  the  liquor ;  remove  all  the  bones,  and  chop  the 
meat  fine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  two  shallots  chopped 
fine  as  possible,  mace  and  thyme,  or,  if  you  like,  sage.  Put 
back  into  the  liquor,  and  boil  until  it  is  almost  dry  and 
can  be  stirred  with  difficulty.  Turn  into  a  mould  until  next 
day.  Set  on  the  table  cold,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  cut 
in  slices.  The  juice  of  a  lemon,  stirred  in  just  before  it  is 
taken  from  the  fire,  is  an  improvement. 

Calf's-Heab  IK  A  Mould. 

Boil  a  calTs-head  until  tender,  the  day  before  you  wish 
to  use  it.  When  perfectly  cold,  chop — not  too  small — ^and 
sesiRon  to  taste  with  pepper,  salt,  mace,  and  the  juice  of  a 

0 


122  COMMON   SENSE. 

lemon.  Prepare  half  as  much  cold  ham,  fat  and  lean — also 
minced — as  you  have  of  the  chopped  cairs-head.  Butter  a 
mould  well,  and  lay  in  the  bottom  a  layer  of  the  calfs- 
head,  then  one  of  ham,  and  so  on  until  the  shape  is  full, 
pressing  each  layer  hard,  when  you  have  moistened  it  with 
veal  gravy  or  the  liquor  in  which  the  head  was  boiled. 
Pour  more  gravy  over  the  top,  and  when  it  has  soaked  in 
well,  cover  with  a  paste  made  of  flour  and  water.  Bake 
one  hour.  Remove  the  paste  when  it  is  quite  cold,  and 
turn  out  carefully.     Cut  petpendicularly. 

This  is  quite  as  good  a  relish  when  made  of  cold  roast  or 
stewed  veal  and  ham.  It  will  keep  several  days  in  cool 
weather. 

Veal  Olives  with  Oysteus. 

Cut  large,  smooth  slices  from  a  fillet  of  veal,  or  veal 
chops  will  do  quite  as  well.  Trim  them  into  a  unifofm 
shape  and  size,  and  spread  each  neatly  with  force-meat 
made  of  bread-crumbs  and  a  little  chopped  pork,  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Over  this  spread  some  chopped 
oysters,  about  three  to  a  good-sized  slice  of  veal.  Boll 
them  up  carefully  and  closely,  and  pin  each  with  two  small 
tin  or  wooden  skewers.  Lay  them  in  a  dripping-pan ;  dash 
a  teacupful  of  boiling  water  over  them,  and  roast,  basting 
at  least  twice  with  melted  butter.  When  tliey  ai*e  brown, 
remove  to  a  chafing-dish,  and  cover,  while  you  add  a  little 
oyster-liquor  to  the  gravy  left  in  the  dripping-pan.  Let 
this  simmer  for  three  or  four  minutes ;  thicken  with  a  tear 
spoonful  of  browned  flour,  and  boil  up  once.  Withdraw 
the  skewers  cautiously,  so  as  not  to  break  the  olives ;  pour 

« 

the  gravy  over  and  around  them,  and  serve.     If  you  have 
no  skewers,  bind  the  olives  with  pack-thread,  cutting  it,  of 
course,  before  sending  to  table. 
Serve  with  cranberry  jelly. 


VEAL.  123 

Minced  Veal. 

Take  the  remains  of  a  cold  roast  of  veal  fillet,  shoulder, 
or  breast,  and  cut  all  the  meat  from  the  bones.  Put  the 
latter,  with  the  outside  slices  and  the  gristly  pieces,  into  a 
saucepan,  with  a  cup  of  cold  water,  some  sweet  herbs,  pep- 
per, and  salt.  If  you  have  a  bit  of  bacon  convenient,  or  a 
ham-bone,  add  this  and  omit  the  salt.  Stew  all  together 
for  an  hour,  then  strain,  thicken  with  flour,  return  to  the 
fire,  and  boil  five  minutes  longer,  stirring  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter. 

Meanwhile,  mince  the  cold  veal,  and  when  the  gravy  is 
ready  put  this  in  a  Kttle  at  a  time.  Let  it  almost  boil,  when 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  or  three  of  milk,  stirring 
all  the  while.  Lastly,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a 
moment  later  half  a  glass  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine. 

The  mince-meat  should  be  dry  enough  to  heap  into  a 
shape  in  a  fiat  dish  or  chafing-dish.  Lay  triangles  of  but- 
tered toast  about  the  base  of  the  mound,  and  on  the  top  a 
poached  egg. 

The  remains  of  cold  roast  beef  treated  in  this  manner, 
substituting  for  the  toast  balls  of  mashed  potato^  will  make 
a  neat  and  palatable  dish. 

Send  around  spinach  or  stewed  tomatoes  with  minced 
veal ;  scraped  horseradish  steeped  in  vinegar  with  the  beef. 

Veal  Cutlets  A  la  Maintenon. 

The  cutlets  shotdd  be  nearly  three-quarters  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  trim  in  shape.  Dip  each  in  beaten  egg,  then 
into  pounded  cracker  which  has  been  seasoned  with  pow- 
dered sweet  herbs,  pepper,  and  salt.  Wrap  each  cutlet  in  a 
half-sheet  of  note  or  letter  paper,  well  buttered ;  lay  them 
upon  a  buttered  gridiron  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  turning 
often  and  dexterously.     You  can  secure  the  papers  by  fring-  ^ 


124  COHMOJBf  SENSE. 

ing  the  ends,  and  twisting  these  after  the  cutlets  are  put  in ; 
this  is  neater  than  to  pin  them  together.  In  trying  this 
dish  for  the  first  time,  have  ready  a  sufficient  number  of 
duplicate  papers  in  a  clean,  hot  dish.  If  your  envelopes  are 
much  soiled  or  darkened  while  the  cutlets  are  broiling, 
transfer  qtiickly  when  done  to  the  clean  warm  ones,  twist 
the  ends,  and  serve.  Cutlets  prepared  in  this  manner  are 
sent  to  table  in  their  cloaks,  ranged  symmetrically  upon  a 
hot  chafing-dish. 

The  expedient  of  the  clean  papers  is  a  "  trick  of  the 
trade,''  amateur  housewives  will  observe  with  satisfaction. 
Epicures  profess  to  enjoy  veal  cooked  in  covers  far  more 
than  when  the  flavor  and  juices  escape  in  broiling  without 
them.  Empty  every  drop  of  gravy  from  the  soiled  papers 
into  the  clean  over  the  cutlets. 

Croquettes  of  Calf's  Brains. 

Wash  the  brains  very  thoroughly  imtil  they  are  free  from 
membranous  matter  and  perfectly  white.  Beat  them 
smooth ;  season  with  a  pinch  of  powdered  sage,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  fine  bread-crumbs  moistened 
with  nuJk,  and  a  beaten  egg.  Boll  into  balls  with  floured 
hands,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in 
butter  or  veal-drippings. 

These  make  a  pleasant  accompaniment  to  boiled  spinach. 
Heap  the  vegetable  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  arrange  the 
balls  about  it,  and  give  one  to  each  person  who  wishes 
spinach. 

Calf's  Liver  {JRoasted), 

Soak  the  liver  in  salt  and  water  an  hour  to  draw  out  the 
blood.  Wipe  perfectly  dry,  and  stuff  with  a  forcemeat 
made  of  bread-crumbs,  two  slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  chopped 
small,  a  shallot,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg;  sweet  maijoram 


VEAL.  125 

and  thyme,  and,  if  you  chooBe,  a  little  sage.  Moisten  this 
with  butter  melted  in  a  very  little  hot  water,  and  two  raw 
eggs,  well  beaten.  In  order  to  get  this  into  the  liver,  make 
an  incision  with  a  narrow  sharp  knife,  and  without  en- 
larging the  aperture  where  the  blade  entered,  move  the 
point  dexterously  to  and  fro,  to  enlarge  the  cavity  inside. 
Stuff  this  fuU  of  the  forcemeat,  sew  or  skewer  up  the  outer 
orifice.;  lard  with  strips  of  salt  pork,  and  roast  for  an  hour, 
basting  twice  with  butter  and  water,  afterward  with  the 
gravy  in  the  dripping-pan.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the  liver 
when  done. 

Boasted  liver  is  very  good  cold,  cut  into  slices  like  tongue. 

Calp*8  Liveb  {JFHed). 

SKce  the  Kver  smoothly,  and  lay  in  salt  and  water  to 
draw  out  the  blood.  Lard  each  slice,  when  you  have  wiped 
it  dry,  with  slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  drawn  through  at  regular 
distances,  and  projecting  slightly  on  each  side.  Lay  in  a 
clean  frying-pan  and  fry  brown.  When  done,  take  out  the 
slices,  arrange  them  neatly  on  a  hot  dish,  and  set  aside  to 
keep  warm.  Add  to  the  gravy  in  the  frying-pan  a  chopped 
onion,  a  half-cup  of  hot  water,  pepper,  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  thicken  with  brown  fiour.  Boil  up  well,  run  through 
a  cullender  to  remove  the  onion  and  the  bits  of  crisped 
pork  that  may  have  been  broken  off  in  cooking,  pour  over 
the  liver,  and  serve  hot. 

Pigs'  livers  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

Calf's  Livek  (Stewed). 

Slice  the  liver  and  lay  in  salt  and  water  an  hour.  Then 
cut  into  dice  and  put  over  the  fire,  with  enough  cold  water 
to  cover  it  well.  Cover  and  stew  steadily  for  an  hour, 
when  add  salt,  pepper,  a  little  mace,  sweet  marjoram,  pars- 


126  COMMON   SEKBE. 

ley,  and  a  teaspoonful  Worcesterahire  sauce.  Stew  again 
steadily,  not  fast,  for  half  an  hour  longer,  when  put  in  a 
table-spoonful  of  butter,  two  of  browned  flour — wet  with 
cold  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice  and  one  of  cur- 
i*ant  jelly.  Boil  five  minutes  longer,  and  dish.  A  little 
wine  is  an  improvement. 

Or, 

Put  in  with  the  liver-dice  some  of  salt  pork — say  a  hand- 
ful— and  when  you  season,  a  chopped  onion,  and  omit  the 
jelly  at  the  last,  substituting  some  tomato  catsup. 

Imitation  Pat6s  de  Foie  Gras.  t^ 

Boil  ^  calfs  liver  until  very  tender  in  water  that  has 
been  slightly  salted,  and  in  another  vessel  a  nice  calTs 
tongue.  It  is  best  to  do  this  the  day  before  you  make 
jovLrpdtiy  as  they  should  be  not  only  cold,  but  firm  when 
used.  Cut  the  liver  into  bits,  and  rub  these  gradually  to  a 
smooth  paste  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  moistening,  as  you 
go  on,  with  melted  butter.  Work  into  this  paste,  which 
should  be  quite  soft,  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pep- 
per, or  twice  the  quantity  of  white  or  black,  half  a  grated 
nutmeg,  a  little  cloves,  a  teaspoonful  of  "Worcestershire 
sauce,  salt  to  taste,  a  full  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water,  in  which  a  minced  onion 
has  been  steeped  until  the  flavor  is  extracted.  Work  all 
together  thoroughly,  and  pack  in  jelly-jars  with  air-tight 
covers,  or,  if  you  have  them,  in  pdte-^sxs.  They  give  a 
foreign  air  to  the  compound,  and  aid  imagination  in  deceiv- 
ing the  palate.  Butter  the  inside  of  the  jars  weU,  and 
pack  the  pdte  very  hard,  inserting  here  and  there  square 
and  triangular  bits  of  the  tongue,  which  should  be  pared 
and  cut  up  for  this  purpose.  These  simulate  the  truffles  im- 
bedded in  the  genuine  pdtee  from  Strasbourg  and  elsewhere. 


VEAL.  •  127 

When  the  jar  is  packed,  and  smooth  as  marble  on  the  sur- 
face, cover  with  melted  butter.  Let  this  harden,  put  on 
the  lid,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  In  winter  it  will 
keep  for  weeks,  and  is  very  nice  for  luncheon  or  tea.  Make 
into  sandwiches,  or  set  on  in  the  jars,  if  they  are  neat  and 
ornamental. 

The  resemblance  in  taste  to  the  real  pdte  de  foie  gras 
is  remarkable,  and  the  domestic  article  is  popular  with  the 
level's  of  that  deKcacy.  Pigs'  livers  make  a  very  iaarpdte. 
If  you  can  procure  the  livers  of  several  fowls  and  treat  as 
above,  substituting  bits  of  the  inside  of  the  gizzard  for  truf- 
fles, you  will  find  the  result  even  more  satisfactory. 

Veal  Marble. 

Boil  a  beef-tongue  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  used,  and  a 
like  number  of  pounds  of  lean  veal ;  or,  the  lean  of  a  well- 
cooked  fillet  will  do  as  well.  Grind  first  one,  then  the 
other,  in  a  sausage-cutter,  keeping  them  in  separate  vessels 
until  you  are  ready  to  pack.  If  you  have  no  machine  for 
this  purpose,  chop  ver^  fine.  Season  the  tongue  with  pep- 
per, powdered  sweet  herbs,  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard, 
a  little  nutmeg,  and  cloves — just  a  pinch  of  each ;  the  veal 
in  like  manner,  with  the  addition  of  salt.  Pack  in  alter- 
nate spoonfuls,  irregularly  as  possible,  in  cups,  bowls,  or 
jars  which  have  been  well  buttered.  Press  very  hard  as 
you  go  on,  smooth  the  top,  and  cover  with  melted  butter. 
AVhen  this  cools,  close  the  cans,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  diy 
place.  Turn  out  whole,  or  cut  in  slices  for  tea.  It  is  a 
pretty  and  savory  relish,  garnished  with  parsley  or  the 
blanched  tops  of  celeiy. 

You  can  use  ground  ham  instead  of  tongue.  It  is  hard- 
ly so  good,  but  is  more  economical. 


128  COMMON   SENSE. 

PORK. 

At  the  South,  whei-e,  in  spite  of  the  warm  cliaiate,  the 
consumption  of  pork  is  double  that  of  the  North,  the  full- 
grown  hog  is  seldom  represented  by  any  of  his  parts  at  the 
table,  fresh  or  pickled,  unless  it  be  during  killing-time ; 
then  fresh  spare-ribs,  chine,  and  steak,  with  other  succu- 
lent bits,  are  welcome  upon  the  choicest  bills  of  fare.  The 
rest  of  the  animal — ham,  shoulders,  and  middlings — ^is  con- 
signed to  the  packing-barrel,  and  ultimately  to  the  smoke- 
house. But,  in  cool  weather,  "shoat" — L  «.,  pig  under 
six  months  of  age — ^is  abundantly  displayed  in  market,  and 
highly  esteemed  by  all  classes.  The  meat  is  fine  and  sweet, 
and,  unless  too  fat,  nearly  as  delicate  as  that  of  chicken — 
a  very  different  looking  and  ta«dng  dish  from  the  gross, 
oleaginous  joints  and  ^^  chunks "  offered  for  sale  in  many 
other  regions  as  ^*  nice  young  pork.''  Those  of  my  read- 
ers who  can  command  *^  shoat "  are  to  be  heartily  congratu- 
lated. Those  whose  butchers  dispense  only  portions  of  the 
mature  porker  will  do  well,  in  my  opinion,  if  they  rarely 
admit  him  to  their  families  before  he  has  been  salted,  and 
been  thereby  purged  of  many  unwholesome  properties. 
Few  stomachs,  save  those  of  out-door  laborers,  can  digest 
the  fresh  meat  of  a  two  or  three,  or  even  one  year  old  hog. 
This  is  the  truthful,  but,  to  unaccustomed  ears,  offensive 
name  for  him  at  the  South  and  West,  where  his  qualities 
and  habits  are  best  known. 

The  parts  of  a  properly  dissected  hog  are  the  hams, 
shoulders,  griskin  or  chine,  the  loin,  middlings,  spare-ribs, 
head,  feet,  liver,  and  haslet.  The  choice  portions  are  hams, 
shoulders,  and,  for  roasting,  the  loin.  All  hogs  should  be 
kept  up  and  well  fed  for  three  weeks,  at  least,  before  they 
are  killed ;  their  styes  be  frequently  cleaned,  and  furnished 
with  abundance  of  wat«r,  renewed  every  day.     Sir  Grunter 


POBK«  129 

would  be  a  more  cleanly  creature  if  he  were  allowed  more 
extensiYe  water  privileges.  If  it  were  possible — and  in 
the  country  this  may  sometimes  be  done — ^to  build  his  pen 
on  the  bank  of  a  running  stream,  he  would  speedily  redeem 
his  character  from  the  stain  cast  upon  it  by  the  popular 
verdict,  and  the  superior  quality  of  the  meat  repay  the 
thoughtful  kindness  of  his  owner.  It  is  a  disgrace  to 
humanity,  hardly  second  to  the  barbarities  of  swill-milk 
manuiactories,  this  compulsory  £dth  of  any  domestic  ani- 
maL  Those  who,  like  myself,  have  been  loathing  witnesses 
of  the  pig-pens  upon  the  premises  of  well-to-do  fieuiners — 
the  receptacles  of  the  vilest  slops  and  o&l,  never  cleaned 
except  during  the  yearly  removal  of  manure  from  barn- 
yard to  field — cannot  marvel  at  the  growing  prejudice 
against  pork  in  all  its  varieties  that  pervades  our  best 
classes.  We  feed  the  hog  with  the  offscourings  (this  is 
literal)  of  house,  garden,  and  table ;  bed  him  in  mire,  and 
swell  him  with  acetous  fermentation,  not  to  say  active  de- 
composition, and  then  abuse  him  for  being  what  we  havc 
made  him.  I  am  persuaded — and  wiser  people  than  I  de- 
clare— that  hog-scrofula  and  cholera,  and  the  rest  of  the 
train  of  fleshly  ills  that  are  the  terror  of  pork-raisers,  have, 
one  and  all,  their  root  in  this  unseemly  inhumanity.  Es- 
chew fresh  pork  we  may,  but  we  cannot  dispense  with  hams, 
shoulders,  and,  most  valuable  of  all  to  the  cook,  lard  and 
pickled  pork.  Beal  sausage,  porcine  and  home-made,  is  still 
sweet  and  pleasant  to  the  unpampered  palate ;  and  of  roast 
pig,  the  gentlest  and  most  genial  of  English  essayists  did 
not  di«<^aiTi  to  become  the  eulogist.  In  memory  of  his  use- 
fulness, in  belief  of  the  healthfulness  which  should  be  his 
birthright,  and  the  safeguard  of  his  consumers,  let  us  treat 
Bristle  well — I  do  not  say  philosophically,  but  sensibly  and 
kindly. 

A  pig  should  not  be  allowed  to  eat  anything  for  twenty- 
6* 


180  COMMON  SENSE. 

four  hours  before  lie  is  killed.  After  he  is  butchered,  great 
care  should  be  exercised  to  keep  the  pork  from  tainting ; 
it  spoils  more  readily,  when  fresh,  than  any  other  meat. 
Cook  all  kinds  of  pork  thoroughly.  When  underdone  it 
is  not  only  unpalatable,  but  exceedingly  unwholesome. 

Boast  Leg  of  Pork. 

One  weighing  about  seven  pounds  is  enough,  even  for  a 
large  family.  If  the  pig  is  young,  the  leg  will  be  even 
smaller.  Score  the  skin  in  squares,  or  ps^rallel  lines  run- 
ning from  side  to  side,  for  the  convenience  of  the  carver. 
Put  it  down  to  roast  with  a  very  little  water  in  the  pan  be- 
low. Heat  gradually  until  the  fat  begins  to  ooze  from  the 
meat,  when  quicken  the  fire  to  a  red,  stetwly  glow.  Baste 
only  with  its  own  gravy,  and  do  this  often,  that  the  skin 
may  not  be  hard  or  tough.  When  done  take  it  up,  skim 
the  gravy  thoroughly,  put  in  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water, 
thicken  with  brown  flour,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  and  serve  in  a  boat. 

Or, 

If  the  joint  be  that  of  a  full-grown  hog,  rub  into  the  top, 
after  scoring  it  deeply,  a  force-meat  of  bread-crumbs  season- 
ed with  sage  and  chopped  onion,  wet  with  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  or  a  very  little  vinegar ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Bub  this  in  hard  until  the  cracks  are  filled.  With  a  shaq) 
knife  make  incLsions  close  to  the  knuckle-bone,  and  stuff 
with  the  forcemeat,  tying  a  string  tightly  about  it  afterward, 
to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  seasoning.  Bub  over  once  with 
butter,  when  the  meat  is  warm  throughout ;  then  baste  with 
the  fat.  Skim  all  the  fat  from  the  drippings  that  can  be  re- 
moved before  making  the  gravy. 

Send  around  tomato  or  apple  sauce,  and  pickles,  with 
roast  pork. 


POSK.  131 

Loin  of  Pork. 

Cook  as  you  would  a  leg,  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  a 
pound  in  roasting.  This  is  a  good  rule  for  fresh  pork,  the 
meat  being  coarser  and  of  closer  grain  than  are  more  deli- 
cate meats. 

A  shoulder  is  roasted  in  the  same  way. 

Roast  Spabe-Rib. 

When  first  put  down  to  the  fire,  cover  with  a  greased 
paper  imtil  it  is  half  done.  Remove  it  then,  and  dredge 
with  flour.  A  few  minutes  later,  baste  once  with  butter, 
and  afterward,  every  little  while,  with  its  own  gravy.  This 
is  necessary,  the  spare-rib  being  a  very  dry  piece.  Just 
before  you  take  it  up,  strew  over  the  surface  thickly  with 
fine  bread-crumbs  seasoned  with  powdered  sage,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  a  small  onion  minced  into  almost  invisible  bits. 
Let  it  cook  five  minutes  and  baste  once  more  with  butter. 
Skim  the  gravy,  add  a  half-cupful  of  hot  water,  thicken  with 
brown  flour,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  strain,  and 
pour  over  the  meat  in  the  dish. 

Send  tomato  catsup  around  with  it,  or  if  you  prefer, 
put  a  libei*al  spoonful  in  the  gravy,  after  it  is  stiuined. 

Roast  Chine. 

A  chine  is  treated  precisely  as  is  the  spare-rib,  except 
that  the  strip  of  skin  running  along  the  back  is  scored  close- 
ly. If  you  wish,  you  can  omit  the  bread-crumb  crust,  the 
onion  and  sage.  In  carving,  cut  thin  horizontal  slices  from 
the  ribs.  Chine  is  best  cold.  The  meat  next  the  ribs  is 
delicious  when  scraped  off  and  made  into  sandwiches,  or 
laid  upon  buttered  toast. 

Or, 
You  can  wash  the  chine  over  with  beaten  egg,  dredge 
with  cracker-crumbs,  seasoned  with  salt  and  i>epper,  and 


132  COMMON   SENSE. 

roast,  basting  witli  butter  and  water  once  when  tlie  meat  is 
heated  through,  afterward  with  its  own  gravy.  This  is  a 
palatable  supper-dish  when  cold.  Garnish  with  cucumber- 
pickles  cut  in  round  slices. 

Roast  Pig. 

A  month-old  pig,  if  it  be  well-grown  and  plump,  is  best 
for  this  puipose.  It  is  hardly  possible  that  any  lady-house- 
keeper will  ever  be  called  upon  to  do  the  but<5her's  work 
upon  the  bodies  of  full-grown  hogs,  or  even  **  shoat " — a 
task  that  requires  the  use  of  hatchet  or  cleaver.  It  is  well 
that  she  should  know  how  to  clean  and  di^ess  the  baby  pig, 
which  is  not  larger  than  a  Thanksgiving  turkey. 

As  soon  as  it  is  really  cold,  make  ready  a  large  boiler  of 
scalding  water.  Lay  the  pig  in  cold  water  for  fifteen  min- 
utes ;  then,  holding  it  by  the  hind  leg,  plunge  it  into  the 
boiling  water,  and  shake  it  about  violently  until  you  can 
pull  the  hair  off  by  the  handful.  Take  it  out,  wipe  it  dry, 
and  with  a  crash  cloth  or  whisk  broom  rub  the  hair  off, 
brushing  from  the  tail  to  the  head,  until  the  skin  is  per- 
fectly clean.  Gut  it  open,  take  oul  the  entrails,  and  wash 
very  thoroughly  with  cold  water,  then  with  soda  and  water, 
to  remove  any  unpleasant  odor ;  next  with  salt  and  water. 
Rinse  with  fair  water  and  wipe  inside.  Then  wrap  in  a 
wet  cloth,  and  keep  this  saturated  with  cold  water  imtil 
you  are  ready  to  stuff  it.  If  these  directions  be  followed 
implicitly,  the  pig  will  be  fair  and  white,  as  if  intrusted  to 
a  professional  butcher. 

For  stuffing,  take  a  cupful  of  bread-crambs,  half  a 
chopped  onion,  two  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage,  three  ta- 
blespoonfuls  melted  butter,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  half  a 
grated  nutmeg,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  well-beaten 
eggs.  Mix  all  these  ingredients,  except  the  egg,  together, 
incorporating  them  well ;  moisten  with  half  a  cup  of  warm 


PORK.  133 

water  (or  milk),  beat  in  the  eggs,  aud  stuff  the  pig  into  his 
natural  size  and  shape.  Sew  him  up,  and  bend  his  fore- 
feet backward,  his  hind-feet  forward,  under  and  close  to  the 
body,  and  skewering  them  into  the  proper  position.  Dry 
it  well,  and  di'edge  with  flour.  Put  it  to  roast  with  a  little 
hot  water,  slightly  salted,  in  the  dripping-pan.  Baste  with 
butter  and  water  three  times,  as  the  pig  gradually  warms, 
afterward  with  the  dripping.  When  it  begins  to  smoke  or 
steam,  rub  it  over,  every  five  minutes  or  so,  with  a  cloth 
dipped  in  melted  butter.  Do  not  omit  this  precaution  if 
you  would  have  the  skin  tender  and  soft  after  it  begins  te 
brown.  A  month-old  pig  will  require  about  an  hour  and 
three  quarters  or  two  hours — sometimes  longer — to  roast, 
if  the  fire  be  brisk  and  steady. 

Should  you  or  your  guests  dislike  onion,  prepare  your 
stuffing  without  it.  The  following  is  a  good  receipt  for 
rich  and  savory  force-meat  for  a  pig : — 

One  cup  of  bread-crumbs,  an  ounce  of  suet,  a  bunch  of 
parsley  minced  fine,  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage,  pepper, 
salt,  and  nutmeg,  a  little  thyme,  half  a  glass  Madeira  or 
sherry,  juice  of  a  lemon,  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter, 
a  cup  of  oyst«r-liquor,  and  two  well-beaten  eggs.  For  a 
Christmas  pig,  it  is  worth  one's  while  to  take  the  trouble 
to  prepare  this  stuffing. 

If  your  pig  is  large,  you  can  cnt  ofif  his  head  and  spUt 
him  down  the  back  before  sending  to  table.  Do  this  with 
a  sharp  knife,  and  lay  the  backs  together.  But  it  is  a 
pity  I  I  have  before  me  now  the  vision  of  a  pig  I  once 
saw  served  whole  on  the  table  of  a  friend,  that  forbids  mo 
ever  to  mutilate  the  innocent  before  the  guests  have  a 
chance  to  feast  their  eyes  upon  the  goodly  picture.  He 
was  done  to  a  turn — ^a  rich,  even  brown,  without  a  seam  or 
crack  from  head  to  taU,  and  he  knelt  in  a  bed  of  deep- 
green  parsley,  alternately  with  bunches  of  whitish-green 


134:  COMMON   SENSE. 

celery  tops  (the  inner  and  tender  leaves)  ;  a  garland  of  the 
same  was  about  his  neck,  and  in  his  mouth  was  a  tuft  of 
white  cauliflower,  surrounded  by  a  setting  of  curled  pars- 
ley. Very  simple,  you  see;  but  I  never  beheld  a  more 
ornamental  roast. 

Skim  your  gravy  well ;  add  a  little  hot  water,  thicken 
with  brown  flour,  boil  up  once,  strain,  and,  when  you  have 
added  half  a  glass  of  wine  and  half  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
serve  in  a  tureen. 

In  carving  the  pig,  cut  ofi'  the  head-first;  then  split 
down  the  back,  take  off  hams  and  shoulders,  and  separate 
the  ribs.     Serve  some  of  the  dressing  to  each  person. 

I  have  been  thus  minute  in  describing  the  preparation 
qf  this  holiday  dish,  because  it  is  erroneously  considered  a 
difficult  task.  Any  cook  with  a  moderate  degree  of  judg- 
ment and  experience  can  undertake  it  with  a  reasonable 
expectation  of  success. 

Pork  Steaks. 

Those  from  the  loin  are  best,  but  they  can  be  cut  from 
the  neck.  Kemove  the  skin  and  trim  neatly.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  Some  excel- 
lent housewives  broil  without  seasoning,  adding  pepper, 
salt,  a  pinch  of  sage,  another  of  minced  onion,  and  a  lump 
of  butter  after  they  are  put  into  the  hot  dish.  Then  cover 
closely  and  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  \mtil  the  aroma 
of  the  condiments  flavors  the  meat.  Try  this  method. 
You  can  cook  spare-rib  in  the  same  manner. 

PoBK  Chops. 

Remove  the  skin,  trim  them,  and  dip  first  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  cracker-crumbs  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper, 
minced  onion,  and  a  little  sage.  Fry  in  hot  lard  or  drip- 
pings twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  turning  often.     The  gravy 


FOBK.  135 

of  this  disk  is  usually  too  rich  or  fat  to  accompany  the 
meat. 

Pork  cutlets  are  cooked  in  like  manner.  Send  applo- 
sauce  to  the  table  with  them,  and  season  with  tomato  cat- 
sup. 

Stewed  Pork. 

Take  some  tolerably  lean  slices  from  the  leg,  or  bits 
left  from  trimming  the  various  pieces  into  shape.  Cut  into 
dice  an  inch  square,  put  into  a  pot  with  enough  cold  water 
to  cover  them,  and  stew  gently  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  closely  covered.  Meanwhile  parboil  half  a  dozen  Irish 
potatoes,  cut  in  thick  slices,  in  another  vessel.  When  the 
pork  has  stewed  the  allotted  time,  drain  off  the  water 
from  these  and  add  to  the  meat.  Season  with  pepper,  salt, 
a  minced  shallot,  a  spoonful  of  pungent  catsup,  and  a  bunch 
of  aromatic  herbs.  Cover  again,  and  stew  twenty  minutes 
longer,  or  until  the  meat  is  tender  throughout. 

If  your  meat  be  not  too  fat,  this  stew  will  be  very  good, 
especially  on  a  cold  day. 

Yon  can  stew  cutlets  in  the  same  way. 

Pig's  Head  (JRoasted), 

Take  the  head  of  a  half-grown  pig ;  clean  and  split  it, 
taking  out  the  brains  and  setting  these  aside  in  a  cool  place. 
Parboil  the  head  in  salted  water,  drain  off  this,  wipe  the 
head  diy,  and  wash  all  over  with  beaten  egg ;  dredge  thickly 
with  bread-crumbs,  seasoned  with  pepper,  sage,  and  onion, 
and  roast,  basting  twice  with  butter  and  water ;  then  with 
the  liquor  in  which  the  head  was  boiled ;  at  last  with  the 
gravy  that  runs  from  the  meat.  Wash  the  brains  in  sev- 
eral waters  until  they  are  white ;  beat  to  a  smooth  paste, 
add  one-quarter  part  fine  bread-crumbs,  pepper,  and  salt ; 
make  into  balls,  binding  with  a  beaten  egg ;  roll  in  flour 
and  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  light  brown.     An*ange  about  the 


136  COMMON   SENSE. 

head  when  it  is  dished.  Skim  the  gravy  left  in  the  drip- 
ping-pan, thicken  with  brown  flour,  add  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  and  boU  up  once.     Pour  it  over  the  head. 

Pig's  Heap  with  Liver  and  Heart  {Stewed). 

Clean  and  split  the  head,  taking  out  the  brains  and  set- 
ting aside.  Put  the  head  in  a  pot  with  water  enough  to 
cover  it  and  parboil  it.  Have  ready  another  pot  with  the 
liver  and  hearty  cut  into  inch-long  pieces,  stewed  in  just 
enough  water  to  keep  them  from  scorching.  When  tioie 
head  is  half  done,  add  the  entire  contents  of  the  second  ves- 
sel to  the  first,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  onion, 
parsley,  and  sage.  Cover  and  stew  until  the  head  is  very 
tender,  when  take  it  out  and  lay  in  the  middle  of  a  flat  dish. 
With  a  perforated  skimmer  remove  the  liver  and  heart  and 
spread  about  the  head,  surrounding,  but  not  covering  it. 
Strain  the  gravy  and  return  to  the  pot,  thicken  with 
browned  flour,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  drop 
in  carefully  force-meat  balls  of  the  brains,  prepared  accord- 
ing to  the  foregoing  receipt  and  Med  a  light  brown«  Boil 
once  and  pour  about  the  head,  arranging  the  balls  upon  it, 
to  cover  the  split  between  the  two  sides  of  the  head. 

You  may  improve  this  dish,  which  is  very  savory,  by 
boiling  a  couple  of  pigs'  feet  with  the  head  until  the  meat 
wiU  slip  from  the  bones.  Take  them  from  the  liquor,  cut 
off  and  chop  the  meat,  and  put  into  the  large  pot  when 
you  add  the  liver,  etc. 

Souse  op  Pigs'  Ears  and  Feet. 

Clean  the  ears  and  feet  well;  cover  them  with  cold 
water  slightly  salted,  and  boil  until  tender.  Pack  in  stone 
jars  while  hot,  and  cover  while  you  make  ready  the  pickle. 
To  half  a  gallon  of  good  cider  vinegar  allow  half  a  cup  of 
white  sugar,  three  dozen  whole  black  pepper,  a  dozen  blades 


POBK.  137 

of  mace,  and  a  dozen  cloves.  Boil  this  one  minute,  taking 
care  that  it  reallj  boils,  and  pour  i^hilo  hot  over  the  still 
warm  feet  and  ears.  It  will  be  ready  to  use  in  two  days, 
and  will  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place  two  months. 

If  you  wish  it  for  breakfast,  make  a  batter  of  one  egg, 
one  cup  of  milk,  salt  to  taste  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
with  enough  flour  for  a  thin  mufin-batter ;  dip  each  piece 
in  this,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  dripping.  Or  dip  each  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  pounded  cracker,  before  frying. 

Souse  is  also  good  eaten  cold,  especially  the  feet. 

Head-Cheese  {or  Sottse). 

This  is  made  of  the  head,  ears,  and  tengue.  Boil  them 
in  salted  water  until  very  tender.  Strip  the  meat  from  the 
bones  and  chop  fine.  Season  with  salt,  p^per,  sage,  sweet 
marjoram,  a  little  powdered  cloves,  and  half  a  cup  of  strong 
vinegar.  Mix  all  together  thoroughly,  taste  te  see  that  it 
is  flavored  sufficiently,  remembering  that  the  spice  tends  te 
keep  it,  and  pack  hard  in  moulds  or  bowls,  interspersing  the 
layers  with  bits  of  the  tongne  cut  in  oUongs,  squares,  and 
triangles  not  less  than  an  inch  in  length.  Press  down  and 
keep  the  meat  in  shape  by  putting  a  plate  on  the  top  of  each 
mould  (first  wetting  the  plate)  and  a  weight  upon  this.  In 
two  days  the  cheese  will  be  ready  for  use.  Turn  out  from 
the  shapes  as  you  wish  to  use  it ;  or,  should  you  desire  to 
keep  it  several  weeks,  take  the  cheese  from  the  moulds  and 
immerse  in  cold  vinegar  in  stone  jars.  This  will  presei*ve 
it  admirably,  and  you  have  only  to  pare  away  the  outside, 
should  it  be  too  acid  for  your  taste. 

This  is  generally  eaten  cold  for  tea,  with  vinegai*  and 
mustard ;  but  it  is  very  nice  cut  in  slices,  seasoned  slightly 
with  mustard,  and  warmed  in  a  fiying-pan  with  enough  but- 
ter to  prevent  burning.  Or,  you  may  dip  in  beaten  egg, 
then  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  for  breakfast. 


138  COMMOli   SENSE. 

■ 

If  the  tongue  is  arranged  judiciously,  the  slices  will  be 
prettily  mai*bled. 

Pork  Pot-pie. 

You  can  make  this  of  lean  pork  cut  from  any  part  of 
the  pig,  but  the  chine  is  best.  Crack  the  bones  well,  and 
cut  up  the  chine  into  rihlettea  two  ii^ches  long.  Line  your 
pot,  which  should  be  round  at  the  bottom  and  well  greased, 
with  a  good  light  paste ;  put  in  the  meat,  then  a  layer  of 
parboiled  potatoes,  split  in  half,  seasoning  with  pepper  and 
salt  as  you  go  on.  When  the  pot  is  nearly  full,  pour  in  a 
quart  of  cold  water  and  put  on  the  upper  crust,  cutting  a 
small  round  hole  out  of  the  middle,  through  which  you  can 
add  hot  water  should  the  gravy  boil  away  too  fast.  Slips 
of  paste  may  also  be  strewed  among  the  meat  and  potatoes. 
Put  on,  the  pot-lid,  and  boil  from  one  hour  and  a  half  to 
two  hours.  When  done,  remove  the  upper  crust  carefully, 
turn  out  the  meat  and  gravy  into  a  bowl,  that  you  may 
get  at  the  lower.  Lay  this  upon  a  hot  dish,  put  the  meat, 
etc.,  in  order  upon  it,  pour  the  gravy  over  it,  and  cover  with 
the  top  crust.  This  can  be  browned  with  a  red-hot  shovel, 
or  oven-lid. 

Cheshire  Pork-pie. 

Cut  two  or  three  pounds  of  lean  fresh  pork  into  strips 
as  long  and  as  wide  as  your  middle  finger.  Line  a  buttered 
dish  with  puff-paste ;  put  in  a  layer  of  pork  seasoned  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg  or  mace ;  next  a  layer  of  juicy  ap- 
ples, sliced  and  covered  with  about  an  ounce  of  white  sugar ; 
then  more  pork,  and  so  on  until  you  are  ready  for  the  paste 
cover,  when  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  sweet  cider  or  wine,  and 
stick  bits  of  butter  all  over  the  top.  Cover  with  a  thick 
lid  of  puff-paste,  cut  a  slit  in  the  top,  brush  over  with 
beaten  egg,  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half. 

This  is  an  English  dish,  and  is  famous  in  the  region  fr'om 


f 


POBK-  139 

-whidi  it  takes  its  name.  It  is  much  liked  by  those  who 
have  tried  it,  and  is  considered  by  some  to  be  equal  to  our 
inince-pie. 

Yorkshire  pork-pie  is  made  in  the  same  way,  with  the 
omission  of  the  apples,  sugar,  and  nutmeg,  and  the  addition 
of  sage  to  the  seasoning. 

SAUSi.G£  {JV^o.  1). 

6  lbs.  lean  fresh  pork. 
3   «    fat      "        " 
12  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage. 
6  **         black  pepper. 

6  «  salt 

2  teaspoonfuls  powdered  mace. 
2  "  «        cloves. 

1  grated  nutmeg. 

Grind  the  meat,  fat  and  lean,  in  a  sausage-mill,  or  chop 
it  very  fine.  The  mill  is  better,  and  the  grinding  does  not 
occupy  one-tenth  of  the  time  that  chopping  does,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  labor.  One  can  be  bought  for  three  or  four 
dollars,  and  will  well  repay  the  purchaser.  Mix  the  sea- 
soning in  with  your  hands,  taste,  to  be  sure  all  is  right,  and 
pack  down  in  stone  jars,  pouring  melted  lard  on  top.  An- 
other good  way  of  preserving  them  is,  to  make  long  narrow 
bags  of  stout  muslin,  large  enough  to  contain,  each,  enough 
sausage  for  a  family  dish.  FUl  these  with  the  meat,  dip  in 
melted  lard,  and  hang  from  the  beams  of  the  cellar. 

If  you  wish  to  pack  in  the  intestines  of  the  hog,  they 
should  be  carefully  prepared  as  follows :  Empty  them,  cut 
them  in  lengths,  and  lay  for  two  days  in  salt  and  water. 
Turn  them  inside  out,  and  lay  in  soak  one  day  longer.  Scrape 
them,  rinse  well  in  soda  and  water,  wipe,  and  blow  into  one 
end,  having  tied  up  the  other  with  a  bit  of  twine.     If  they 


140  COMMON   BEN6E. 

Are  whole  and  clear,  stuff  with  the  meat ;  tie  up  and  hang 
in  the  store-room  or  cellar. 

These  are  fried  in  the  cases,  in  a  dean,  dry  frying-pan, 
until  brown.  If  you  have  the  sausage-meat  in  bulk,  make 
into  small,  roimd  flat  cakes,  and  fry  in  the  same  way.  Some 
dip  in  egg  and  pounded  cracker — others  roll  in  flour  before 
cooking.  Their  own  fat  will  cook  them.  Send  to  table 
dry  and  hot,  but  do  not  let  them  fry  hai'd.  When  one  side 
is  done,  turn  the  other.  The  fire  should  be  very  brisk. 
Ten  minutes,  or  twelve  at  the  outside,  is  long  enough  to 
cook  them. 

Sausaqe  (iVo.  2). 

4  lbs.  pork,  lean. 
H  "      **      fat. 

10  teaspoonfuls  sage. 

5  ^        pepper, 
5  «        salt. 

Grind  and  season  as  directed  in  No.  1. 
This  will  not  keep  so  long  as  that  made  according  to  the 
former  receipt,  but  is  very  good  for  immediate  family  use. 

Sausage  {No,  3). 

2  lbs.  lean  pork. 
2   «       «    veal. 

2  "    beef  suet 
Peel  of  half  a  lemon. 
1  grated  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonf ul  black  pepper. 
1  "        cayenne. 

5  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

3  ^<  sweet  marjoram  and 
thyme  mixed. 


POllK.  141 

2  teaspoonfals  of  sage. 
Juice  of  a  lemon. 
Stuff  in  cases.     This  is  very  fine. 

BoLOOXA  Sausage  ( Uncooked), 

6  lbs.  lean  pork. 

3  "      ''    beef. 

2  *'    beef  suet. 

4  ounces  salt. 

6  tablespoonfuls  black  pepper. 

3  "  cayenne. 

2  teaspoonfuls  powdered  cloves. 
1  ^^         allspice. 

One  minced  onion,  very  finely 
chopped. 

Chop  or  grind  the  meat,  and  mix  the  seasoning  well 
through  it.  Pack  it  in  beef-skins  (or  entrails)  prepared  as 
yon  do  those  of  pork.  In  the  city,  you  can  have  these 
cleaned  by  your  butcher,  or  get  them  ready  for  use  from  a 
pork  merchant.  Tie  both  ends  tightly,  and  lay  them  in 
brine  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg.  Let  them  be  in 
this  for  a  week ;  change  the  brine,  and  let  them  remain  in 
this  a  week  longer.  Turn  them  over  every  day  of  the  fort- 
night. Then  take  them  out,  wipe  them,  and  send  them  to 
be  smoked,  if  you  have  no  smoke-house  of  your  own.  When 
well  smoked,  rub  them  over  with  sweet  oil  or  fresh  butter, 
and  hang  them  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Bologna  sausage  is  sometimes  eaten  raw,  but  the  dread 
of  the  fatal  trichirue  should  put  an  end  to  this  practice,  did 
not  common  sense  teach  us  that  it  must  be  unwholesome, 
no  less  than  disgusting.  Cut  in  round,  thick  slices,  and 
toast  on  a  gridiron,  or  fiy  in  their  own  fat.  If  you  mean 
to  keep  it  some  time,  rub  over  the  skins  with  pepper  to 
keep  away  insects. 


142  COMMON  SENSE. 

BoLOONA  Sausage  (Cooked). 

2  lbs.  lean  beef. 
2  "  «  veal. 
2  "  "  pork. 
2  *'  fat  salt  pork — not  smoked. 

1  lb,  beof  suet. 

10  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage. 
4  lbs.  marjoram,  parsley,  savory,  and  thyme — ^mixed. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cayenne  pepper,  and  the  same  of 
black. 

1  grated  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  minced  onion. 

Salt  to  taste. 
Chop  or  grind  the  meat  and  suet ;  season,  and  stuff  into 
beef-skins ;  tie  these  up ;  prick  each  in  several  places  to  al- 
low the  escape  of  the  steam;  put  into  hot — ^not  boiling 
water,  and  heat  gradually  to  the  boiling-point.  Cook  slowly 
for  one  hour ;  take  out  the  skins  and  lay  them  to  dry  in  the 
sun,  upon  clean,  sweet  straw  or  hay.  Bub  the  outside  of 
the  skins  with  oil  or  melted  butter,  and  hang  in  a  cool,  dry 
cellar.  If  you  mean  to  keep  it  more  than  a  week,  rub  pep- 
per or  powdered  ginger  upon  the  outside.  You  can  wash 
it  off  before  sending  to  table.  This  is  eaten  without  further 
cooking.  Cut  in  round  slices,  and  lay  sliced  lemon  around 
the  edge  of  the  dish,  as  many  like  to  squeeze  a  few  drops 
upon  the  sausage  before  eating. 

Lard. 

Every  housekeeper  knows  how  unfit  for  really  nice 
cooking  is  the  pressed  lard  sold  in  stores  as  the  '^  best  and 
cheapest."  It  is  close  and  tough,  melts  slowly,  and  is  some- 
times diversified  b}'  fibrous  lumps.     And  even  when  lard 


PORK.  143 

Has  been  "  tried  out "  by  the  usual  process,  it  is  often  mixed 
'w^itb  so  much  water  as  to  remind  us  unpleasantly  that  it 
is  bought  by  weight. 

The  best  way  of  preparing  the  **  leaf  lard,"  as  it  is  called, 
is  to  skin  it  carefully,  wash,  and  let  it  drain ;  then  put  it, 
cut  into  bits,  into  a  large,  clean  tin  kettle  or  bucket,  and 
set  this  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Stir  from  time  to  time 
until  it  is  melted  ;  throw  in  a  very  little  salt,  to  make  the 
sediment  settle ;  and  when  it  is  hot — (it  should  not  boil  fast 
at  any  time,  but  simmer  gently  until  clear) — strain  through 
a  coarse  cloth  into  jars.  Do  not  squeeze  the  cloth  so  long 
as  the  clear  fat  will  run  through,  and  when  you  do,  press 
the  refuse  into  a  different  vessel,  to  be  used  for  commoner 
purposes  than  the  other. 

Most  of  the  lai*d  in  general  use  is,  however,  made  from 
the  fiitty  portions  of  pork  lying  next  the  skin  of  the  hog, 
and  are  left  for  this  purpose  by  the  butcher.  .  Scrape  from 
the  rind,  and  cut  all  into  dice.  Fill  a  large  pot,  putting  in 
a  teacupful  of  water  to  prevent  scorching,  and  melt  very 
slowly,  stirring  every  few  minutes.  Simmer  until  there 
remains  nothing  of  the  meat  but  fibrous  bits.  Bemove 
these  carefully  with  a  perforated  skimmer ;  throw  in  a  little 
salt,  to  settle  the  fat,  and  when  it  is  clear,  strain  through  a 
£xke  cullender,  a  sieve,  or  a  coarse  cloth.  Dip  the  latter  in 
boiUng  water,  should  it  become  clogged  by  the  cooling  lard. 
Observe  the  directions  about  squeezing  the  strainer.  If 
your  family  is  small,  bear  in  mind  that  lard  keeps  longer  in 
small  than  large  vessels.  Set  away  the  jai*s,  closely  covered, 
in  a  cool,  dry  cellar  or  store-room. 

In  trying  out  lard,  the  chief  danger  is  of  burning.  Sim- 
mer gently  over  a  steady  fire,  and  give  it  your  whole  atten- 
tion until  it  is  done.  A  moment^s  neglect  will  ruin  all. 
Stir  ve^  often — almost  constantly  at  the  last — ^and  from 
the  bottom,  until  the  salt  is  thrown  in  to  settle  it,  when 


144  COMMON   BENSK 

m 

withdraw  to  a  less  hot  part  of  the  fire.  Bladders  tied  over 
lard  jars  are  the  hest  protection ;  next  to  these,  paper,  and 
outside  of  this,  cloths  dipped  in  melted  grease. 

Bbawn  (No.  1.) 

Fig's  head  weighing  6  lbs. 

1  lb.  lean  beef. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

^  teaspoonful  pepper  (black  or  white). 

i  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 

i  te«q>oonM  m«,e. 

A  pinch  of  cloves. 

A  small  onion  minced  very  fine. 

Clean  and  wash  the  head,  and  stew  with  the  beef  in 
enough  cold  water  to  cover.  When  the  bones  will  slip  out 
easily,  remove  them,  after  draining  off  the  liquor.  Chop 
the  meat  finely  while  it  is  hot,  season,  and  pour  all  into  a 
mould,  wet  inside  with  cold  water.  If  you  can  have  a  tin 
mould  made  in  the  shape  of  a  boar's  head,  your  brawn  will 
look  well  at  a  Christmas  feast. 

Brawn  (No.  2). 

Pig's  head,  feet,  and  ears. 

^  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  same  of  cayenne. 

4  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage. 

1  teaspoonful  mace. 

An  onion  minced. 

Salt  and  saltpetre. 

Soak  the  head  twelve  hours,  and  lay  in  a  stroxig  brine, 
with  a  tablee^onfiil  of  saltpetre.  Let  it  lie  three  days  in 
this ;  rinse ;  then  boil  it  until  you  can  draw  out  the  bones. 
Do  this  very  carefully  from  the  back  and  nndernaide  of  the 
head,  breaking  tho  outline  of  the  top  as  little  as  possibin 


FOBE.  145 

Chop  the  meat  of  the  feet  and  ears,  which  should  have  been 
boiled  with  the  head,  season  to  taste  with  the  spices  I  have 
indicated  (tastes  vary  in  these  mattters),  beat  in  the  brains, 
or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Fill  up  the  hollows 
lefb  by  the  removal  of  the  bones  with  this  mixture.  Tie  in 
a  flannel  cloth,  sewing  this  tightly  into  the  shape  of  the 
head;  boil  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  and  set  aside  to  drain 
and  cool.  Do  not  remove  the  cloth  until  next  day.  This 
will  be  found  very  nice. 

Saveloys. 
8  lbs.  pork. 

4  teaspoonfuls  black  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  cayenne. 

1  ^^  cloves  or  mace. 

8  teaspoonfuls  sage,  sweet  marjoram,  and  thyme, 

mixed. 

1  teacupful  bread-crumbs. 

Lay  the  meat,  which  should  be  young  pork,  in  a  brine  of 
salt  and  water,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  saltpetre,  and  leave 
it  for  three  days.  Dry  and  mince  it,  season,  and  add  the 
grated  bread.  Stuff  in  skins,  and  bake,  closely  covered,  in 
an  oven  for  half  an  hour.  Or,  what  is  better,  steam  over 
boiling  water  one  hour. 

Eat  either  hot  or  cold. 

To  Pickle  Pork.    (No.  1.) 

Hams,  shoulders,  chines,  and  ^^  middlings,''  are  the  parts 
of  the  hog  which  are  usually  pickled.  This  should  be  done 
as  soon  as  may  be  after  the  meat  is  fairly  cold — especially 
in  moderate  weather.  "When  you  can  pack  down  pork 
twenty-four  hours  after  butchering,  it  is  best  to  do  so,  un- 
less the  cold  be  severe  enough  to  preserve  it  longer. 


146  COMMON  SENSE. 

H  lbs.  salt. 

1  lb.  brown  sugar. 

1  oz.  saltpetre  in  3  gallons  of  ¥rater. 

Put  into  a  large  Banoepan  and  boil  for  half  an  hour, 
skimming  off  the  scum.  When  cold,  pour  over  the  meat, 
and  let  it  lie  for  a  few  days. 

This  is  intended  to  corn  a  small  quantity  of  meat  for 
family  use. 

(No.  2.) 

80  lbs.  of  meat. 

2  quarts  and  1  pint  of  fine  salt. 

4  lbs.  sugar,  or  1  quart  best  molasses. 

3  oz.  saltpetre. 

Pulverize  and  mix  the  seasoning,  with  the  exception  of 
the  two  quarts  of  salt,  using  the  one  pint  only.  Rub  the 
meat  toell  all  over,  and  lay  upon  boards  on  the  cellar>floor 
for  twenty-four  hours.  Then,  put  a  few  clean  stones 
in  the  bottom  of  a  barrel ;  lay  sticks  across  these,  that  the 
nieat  may  not  soak  in  the  liquor  that  drains  from  it.  Pack 
the  meat  in  layers,  strewing  between  these  the  remaining 
two  quarts  of  salt.  Let  it  lie  in  the  cask  for  fifteen  or  six- 
teen days,  every  day  during  this  time  tipping  the  cask  to 
drain  off  the  liquor,  or  drawing  it  through  a  bung-hole  near 
the  bottom.     Pour  this  back  in  cupfids  over  the  meat. 

If  you  do  not  mean  to  smoke  the  meat,  take  it  out  at 
the  end  of  the  fortnight,  rub  each  piece  well  over  with  dry 
salt,  and  return  to  the  barrel.  If  Uie  liquor  does  not  cover 
it,  make  fresh  brine  in  the  proportion  of  two  pounds  of  salt, 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  and  a  quart  of  water,  and 
pour  in  when  you  have  boiled  it  half  an  hour  and  let  it  cool. 
Lay  a  round  piece  of  board  upon  the  upper  layer  and  keep 
this  down  with  stones.  Examine  from  time  to  time,  to  be 
sure  the  meat  is  keeping  well.     Should  it  seem  likely  to 


PORK.  147 

iainty  throw  away  the  pickle,  rub  each  piece  over  with  dry 
salt,  and  pack  anew.  Pork  pickled  in  this  way  wUl  keep 
two  years. 

To  Cure  Hams. 

Having  pickied  your  hams  with  the  rest  of  your  pork, 
as  just  directed,  take  them,  after  the  lapse  of  sixteen  days, 
from  the  packing  barrel,  with  the  shoulders  and  jowls.  At 
the  South  they  empty  the  cask,  and  consign  the  ^^  whole 
hog ''  to  the  smoke-house.  Wash  off  the  pickle,  and,  while 
wet,  dip  in  bran.  Some  use  saw-dust,  but  it  is  not  so  good. 
Others  use  neither,  only  wipe  the  meat  dry  and  smoke. 
The  object  in  dipping  in  bran  or  saw-dust  is  to  form  a  crust 
which  prevents  the  evaporation  of  the  juices.  Be  sure  that 
it  is  well  covered  with  the  bran,  then  hang  in  the  smoke, 
the  hock  end  downward.  Keep  up  a  good  smoke,  by  hav- 
ing the  fire  partially  smothered  with  hickory  chips  and  saw- 
dust, for  four  weeks,  taking  care  the  house  does  not -be- 
come hot.  Take  down  the  meat,  brush  off  the  bran,  exam- 
ine closely,  and  if  you  suspect  insects,  lay  it  in  the  hot  sun 
for  a  day  or  two. 

The  various  ways  of  keeping  hams — each  strongly 
recommended  by  those  who  have  practised  it — are  too  nu- 
merous to  mention  here.  Some  pack  in  wood  ashes ;  oth- 
ers, in  dry  oats ;  others,  in  bran.  But  the  best  authorities 
discard  packing  altogether.  I  will  name  one  or  two  meth- 
ods which  I  know  have  been  successful.  <^  I  hang  mine  on 
hooks  from  wires,  at  the  top  of  my  granary,  which  is  tight 
and  dark,''  says  an  excellent  judge  and  manufacturer  of 
hams.  "  They  are  good  and  sweet  when  a  year  old,"  An- 
other admirable  housekeeper  covers  with  brown  paper, 
then  with  coarse  muslin  stitched  tightly  and  fitting  close- 
ly, then  whitewashes.  But  for  the  paper,  the  lime  would 
be  apt  to  cat  away  the  grease.     Still  another  covers  with 


148  COMMON  SENSE. 

muslin,  and  coats  with  a  mixture  of  bees-wax  and  rosiu. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  covers  are  an  excellent  precau- 
tion— ^provided  always,  that  the  insects  have  not  already 
deposited  their  eggs  in  the  meat.  The  bran  coating  tends 
to  prevent  this. 

I  have  eaten  ham  twenty  years  old  in  Virginia,  which 
had  been  kept  sweet  in  slaked  ashes.  Unslaked  will  act 
like  lime  upon  the  fat. 

Boiled  Ham. 

Soak  in  water  over  night.  Kext  morning  wash  hard 
with  a  coarse  cloth  or  stiff  brush,  and  put  on  to  boil  with 
plenty  of  cold  water.  Allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  each 
pound  in  cooking,  and  do  not  boil  too  fast.  Do  not  remove 
the  skin  until  cold;  it  will  come  off  easily  and  cleanly 
then,  and  the  juices  are  better  preserved  than  when  it  is 
stripped  hot.  Send  to  table  with  dots  of  pepper  or  diy 
mustard  on  the  top,  a  tuft  of  fringed  paper  twisted  about 
the  shank,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Cut  very  thin  in  carving. 

Glazed  Ham.  »{« 

Brush  the  ham — ^a  cold  boiled  one,  from  which  the 
skin  has  been  taken — well,  all  over  with  beaten  e^.  To 
a  cup  of  powdered  cracker  allow  enough  rich  milk  or 
cream  to  make  into  a  thick  paste,  salt,  and  work  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter.  Spread  this  evenly  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick  over  the  ham,  and  set  to  brown  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

Steamed  Ham. 

This  is  by  far  the  best  way  of  cooking  a  ham.  Lay  in 
cold  water  for  twelve  hours ;  wash  very  thoroughly,  rub- 
bing with  a  stiff  brush,  to  dislodge  the  salt  and  smoke  on 


PORK,  ^  149 

the  outside.  Put  into  a  steamer,  cover  closely,  and  set  it 
over  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Allow  at  least  twenty  min- 
utes to  a  pound.     Keep  the  water  at  a  hard  boH. 

If  you  serve  ham  hot,  skin,  and  immediately  strew 
thickly  with  cracker  or  bread-crumbs,  to  prevent  the  waste 
of  the  essence.     Put  a  frill  of  paper  about  the  knuckle. 

Send  around  cabbage  or  other  green  vegetables  with  it. 

Baked  Ham. 

Soak  for  twelve  hours.  Trim  away  the  rusty  part  from 
the  imder  side  and  edges,  wipe  very  diy,  cover  the  bottom 
with  a  paste  made  of  flour  and  hot  water,  and  lay  it  upside 
down  in  the  dripping-pan,  with  enough  water  to  keep  it 
from  burning.  Bake  five  hours,  or  allow  fully  twenty-five 
minutes  to  a  pound.  Baste  now  and  then,  to  prevent  the 
crust  from  cracking  and  scaling  off.  When  done,  peel  off 
this  and  the  skin,  and  glaze  as  you  would  a  cold  ham. 

Put  cut  paper  about  the  knuckle,  and  garnish  with 
parsley  and  sliced  red  ))eet — pickled. 

ErOAST  Ham. 

Soak  for  two  days  in  lukewarm  water,  changing  at  least 
six  times  a  day.  Take  it  out,  wash  very  well,  scrubbing 
the  tmder  part  hard,  and  trimming  away  the  black  and 
rusty  edges.  Skin  with  cai*e,  lest  you  mangle  the  meat 
and  spoil  the  syn^etry  of  the  shape.  Lay  in  a  dish  and 
sponge  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  a  mixture  of  wine,  vine- 
gar, sugar,  and  mustard — about  a  tablespoonful  of  white 
sugar,  a  saltspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  a  glass  of  wine 
to  half  a  gill  of  vinegar.  Do  this  at  intervals  of  an  hour, 
washing  every  part  of  the  ham  well,  all  day  and  until  bed- 
time. Renew  the  process  next  morning  until  six  hours  be- 
fore you  need  the  meat     Put  it  upon  the  spit  or  in  the 


150  COMMON  SENSE. 

• 

dripping-pan,  with  a  cup  of  hot  water  to  prevent  burning. 
Add  to  the  mixture — or  what  ifl  left  of  it  in  the  dish — a 
cupful  of  boiling  water.  Keep  this  on  the  stove  and  baste 
continually  with  it  until  the  liquor  flows  freely  from  the 
ham  as  it  cooks ;  then  substitute  the  gravy.  When  done 
(you  must  test  with  a  fork),  cover  with  cracker-crumbs, 
worked  to  a  paste  with  milk,  butter,  and  a  beaten  egg,  and 
return  to  the  oven  to  brown. 

Skim  the  gravy ;  add  a  glass  of  good  wine,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  catsup, — walnut,  if  you  have  it, — the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Boil  up,  and  send  to  table  in  a 
boat. 

Troublesome  as  the  mode  of  cooking  it  may  seem,  roast 
ham  is  so  delicious — especially  when  cold — as  fully  to 
recompense  the  housekeeper  who  may  be  tempted  to  try  it. 

Broiled  Hah. 

Cut  in  slices.  Wash  well,  and  soak  in  scalding  water 
in  a  covered  vessel  for  half  an  hour.  Pour  off  the  water 
and  add  more  boilihg  water.  Wipe  dry  when  the  ham  has 
stood  half  an  hour  in  the  second  water,  and  lay  in  cold  for 
five  minutes.  Wipe  again  and  broil  over  (or  under)  a 
clear  fire. 

Cold  boiled  ham,  that  is  not  too  much  done,  is  better 
for  broiling  than  raw.     Pepper  before  serving. 

Barbecued  Hah.  »{« 

If  your  ham  is  raw,  soak  as  above  directed ;  then  lay 
the  slices  flat  in  a  frying-pan ;  pepper  each  and  lay  upon  it 
a  qiiarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard.  Pour  about 
them  some  vinegar,  allowing  half  a  teaspoonful  to  each 
slice.  Fry  quickly  and  turn  often.  Wlien  done  to  a  fine 
brown,  transfer  to  a  hot  dish ;  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan 


PORK.  151 

half  a  glass  of  wine  and  a  very  small  teaspoonful  of  white 
sogar.     Boil  up  and  pour  over  tlie  meat. 
Underdone  ham  is  nice  barbecued. 

Fried  Hah. 

If  raw,  soak  as  for  broiling.  Cook  in  a  hot  frying-pan, 
turning  often  until  done.  Serve  with  or  without  the  gravy, 
as  you  please.  In  some  parts  of  the  coimtry  it  is  custom- 
ary to  take  the  meat  first  from  the  pan,  and  add  ta  the 
gravy  a  little  cream,  then  thicken  with  flour.  Boil  up 
once  and  pour  over  the  ham.  A  little  chopped  parsley  is 
a  pleasant  addition  to  this  gravy. 

Or, 

You  may  dip  some  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham — cut  rather 
thick — ^in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  them 
in  fat  extracted  from  some  bits  of  salt  pork.  Take  the  dry 
fried  pork  from  the  pan  before  putting  in  the  ham.  Gar- 
nish with  crisped  parsley. 

Ham  Sandwiches. 

Cut  some  slices  of  bread  in  a  neat  shape,  and  trim  off 
the  crust,  imless  it  is  very  tender.  Butter  them  and  lay 
between  every  two  some  thin  slices  «of  cold  boiled  ham. 
Spread  the  meat  with  a  little  mustard  if  you  like. 

Ground  ham  makes  delicious  sandwiches.  Cut  the 
bread  very  thin,  and  butter  well.  Put  in  a  good  layer  of 
ham,  and  press  the  two  sides  of  the  sandwiches  firmly,  but 
gently,  together.  Then  roll  lengthwise,  and  pile  in  a  plate 
or  basket. 

Ham  and  Chicken  Sandwiches. 

Mince  some  cold  roast  chicken,  and  a  like  quantity  of 
cold  boiled  ham.     Put  the  mixture  into  a  saucepan,  with 


152  CX>MMON   SENSE. 

enough  gravy — chicken  or  veal — to  make  a  soft  paste.  If  you 
have  no  gravy,  use  a  little  hot  water,  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
cream,  and  a  fair  lump  of  butter.  Season  with  pepper  to 
your  taste.  Stir  while  it  heats  almost  to  boiling,  working 
it  very  smooth.  In  about  five  minutes  after  it  begins  to 
smoke,  take  from  the  fire  and  spread  in  a  dish  to  cool. 
With  a  good-sized  cake-cutter,  or  a  plain  thin-edged  tum- 
bler, cut  some  rounds  of  cold  bread,  and  butter  one  side  of 
each.  Sprinkle  the  buttered  sides  with  grated  cheese,  and, 
when  the  chicken  is  cold,  put  a  layer  between  t^ese. 
These  sandwiches  are  simple  and  very  good. 

Ham  and  Chicken  Pie. 

Cut  up  and  parboil  a  tender  young  chicken — ^a  year  old 
one  is  best.  Line  a  deep  dish  with  a  good  pie-crust.  Cut 
some  thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham,  and  spread  a  layer  next 
the  crust ;  then  arrange  pieces  of  the  fowl  upon  the  ham. 
Cover  this,  in  turn,  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  buttered 
and  peppered.  Proceed  in  this  order  until  your  materials 
are  used  up.  Then  pour  in  enough  veal  or  chicken  gravy 
to  prevent  dryness.  Unless  you  have  put  in  too  much 
water  for  the  size  of  the  fowl,  the  liquor  in  which  the 
chicken  was  boiled  is  best  for  this  purpose.  Bake  one  hour 
and  a  quarter  for  a  Mrge  pie. 

Ham  and  Egos. 

Cut  your  slices  of  ham  of  a  uniform  size  and  shape. 
Fry  quickly,  and  take  them  out  of  the  pan  as  soon  as  they 
are  done.  Have  the  eggs  ready,  and  drop  them,  one  at  a 
time,  in  the  hissing  fat.  Have  a  large  pan  for  this  purpose, 
that  they  may  not  touch  and  run  together.  In  three  min- 
utes they  will  be  done.  The  meat  should  be  kept  hot,  and 
when  the  eggs  are  ready,  lay  one  upon  each  slice  of  ham. 


PORK.  153 

which  should  have  been  cut  the  proper  size  for  this.     Do 
not  use  the  gravy. 

Pork  anp  Beaks. 

Parboil  a  piece  of  the  middling  of  salt  pork,  and  score 
ilie  skin.  Allow  a  pound  to  a  quart  of  dried  beans,  which 
must  be  soaked  over  night  in  lukewarm  water.  Change 
this  twice  for  more  and  warmer  water,  and  in  the  morning 
put  them  on  to  boil  in  cold.  When  they  are  soft,  drain 
off  the  liquor,  put  the  beans  in  a  deep  dish,  and  half-bury 
the  pork  in  the  middle,  adding  a  very  little  warm  water. 
Bake  a  nice  brown. 

This  is  a  &vorite  dish  with  New  England  farmers  and 
many  others.  Although  old-fashioned,  it  still  makes  its 
weekly  appearance  upon  the  tables  of  hundreds  of  well-to- 
do  families. 

Pork  and  Peas  Pudding. 

Soak  the  pork,  which  should  not  be  a  fat  piece,  over 
night  in  cold  water ;  and  in  another  pan  a  quart  of  dried 
split  peas.  In  the  morning  put  on  the  peas  to  boil  slowly 
until  tender.  Drain  and  rub  through  a  cullender ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  mix  with  them  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter  and  two  beaten  eggs.  Beat  all  well  together. 
Have  ready  a  floured  pudding-cloth,  and  put  the  pudding 
into  it.  Tie  it  up,  leaving  room  for  swelling ;  put  on  in 
warm,  not  hot  water,  with  the  pork,  and  boil  them  together 
an  hour.  Lay  the  pork  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  turn  out 
the  pudding,  slice  and  arrange  about  the  meat. 

?♦ 


154  COMMON  6KNBE. 


Laying  to  your  conduct  tlie  line  and  plummet  of  the 
Golden  Rule,  never  pay  a  viait  (I  use  the  word  in  contra- 
distinction to  «*  call ")  without  notifying  your  hostess-elect 
of  your  intention  thus  to  favor  her. 

Perhaps  once  in  ten  thousand  times,  your  friend — ^be 
she  mother,  sister,  or  intimate  acquaintance— may  be  en- 
raptured at  your  unexpected  appearance,  travelling-satchel 
in  hand,  at  her  door,  to  pass  a  day,  a  night,  or  a  month ;  or 
may  be  pleasantly  surprised  when  you  take  the  baby,  and 
run  in  to  tea  in  a  social  way.  But  the  chances  are  so  greatly 
in  favor  of  the  probability  that  you  will  upset  her  house- 
hold arrangements,  abrade  her  temper,  or  put  her  to  undue 
trouble  or  embarrassment,  by  this  evidence  of  your  wish  to 
have  her  feel  quite  easy  with  you,  to  treat  you  as  one  of 
the  family,  that  it  is  hardly  worth  your  while  to  risk  so 
much  in  order  to  gain  so  little. 

Mrs.  Partington  has  said  more  silly  things  than  any 
other  woman  of  her  age  in  this  country ;  but  she  spoke 
wisely  in  declaring  her  preference  for  those  surprise-parties 
**when  people  sent  word  they  were  coming."  Do  not  be 
ashamed  to  say  to  your  nearest  of  kin,  or  the  confidante  of 
your  school-days — "  Always  let  me  know  when  to  look  for 
you,  that  I  may  so  order  my  time  and  engagements  as  to 
secure  the  greatest  possible  pleasure  from  your  visit."  If 
you  are  the  woman  I  take  you  to  be — methodical,  indus- 
trious, and  ruling  your  household  according  to  just  and 
firm  laws  of  order  and  punctuality,  you  need  this  notice. 
If  you  are  likewise  social  and  hospitable,  your  rules  are 
made  with  reference  to  possible  and  desirable  interruptions 
of  this  nature.  It  only  requires  a  little  closer  packing  of 
certain  duties,  an  easy  exchange  of  times  and  seasons,  and 


COMPANY.  165 

leisure  is  obtained  for  the  right  enjoyment  of  your  friend's 
Bocietj.  The  additional  -place  is  set  at  table ;  jour  spare 
bed,  which  yesterday  was  tossed  into  a  heap  that  both  mat- 
tresses might  be  aired,  and  covered  lightly  with  a  thin 
spread,  is  made  up  with  fresh  sheets  that  have  not  gath- 
ered damp  and  must  from  lying  packed  beneath  blankets 
and  coverlets  for  may  be  a  month,  for  fear  somebody  might 
happen  in  to  pass  the  night,  and  catch  you  with  the  bed  in 
disorder.  Towels  and  water  are  ready ;  the  room  is  bright 
and  dustless ;  the  dainty  dish  so  far  prepared  for  dinner  or 
tea  as  to  be  like  Mrs.  Bagnet's  greens,  ''  off  your  mind ; '' 
John  knows  whom  he  is  to  see  at  his  home-ooming ;  the 
cliildren  are  clean,  and  on  the  qui  wvd— children's  instincts 
are  always  hospitable.  The  guest's  welcome  is  half  given  in 
the  air  of  the  house  and  the  £unily  group  before  you  have 
time  to  utter  a  word.  It  may  have  appeared  to  her  a  use- 
less formality  to  despatch  the  note  or  telegram  you  insisted 
upon.  She  knows  you  love  her,  and  she  would  be  wounded 
by  the  thought  that  she  could  ever  '^  come  amiss  "  to  your 
home.  Perhaps,  as  she  lays  aside  her  travelling-dress,  she 
smiles  at  your  ^^  ceremonious,  old-maidish  ways,"  and  mar- 
vels that  so  good  a  manager  should  deem  such  forms  neces- 
sary with  an  old  friend. 

If  she  had  driven  to  your  house  at  night&U,  to  discover 
that  you  had  gone  with  husband  and  children  to  pass  sev- 
eral days  with  John's  mother,  in  a  town  fifty  miles  away, 
and  that  the  servants  were  out  ^*  a -pleasuring  "  in  the  mis- 
tress' absence ;  if  she  had  found  you  at  home,  nursing  three 
children  through  the  measles,  she  having  brought  her 
youngest  with  her ;  if  you  were  yourself  the  invalid,  bound 
hand  and  foot  to  a  Procrustean  couch,  and  utterly  imable 
even  to  see  her — John,  meanwhile,  being  incapacitated  from 
playing  the  part  of  agreeable  host  by  worry  and  anxiety ; 
if,  on  the  day  before  her  an*ival,  your  chambermaid  had 


156  COMMON  SENSE. 

gone  off  in  a  "  tiff,"  leaving  you  to  do  her  work  and  to 
nurse  your  cook,  sick  in  the  third  story ;  if  earlier  comers 
than  herself  had  filled  every  spare  mattress  in  the  house ; — 
if  any  one  of  these,  or  a  dozen  other  ills  to  which  house- 
keepers are  heirs,  had  impressed  upon  her  the  idea  that  her 
visit  was  inopportune,  she  might  think  better  of  your 
"  punctilio." 

-  But  since  unlooked-for  viidtors  will  occasionally  drop 
in  upon  the  best-regulated  families,  make  it  your  study  to 
receive  them  gracefully  and  cordially.  If  they  care  enough 
for  you  to  turn  aside  from  their  regular  route  to  tarry  a 
day,  or  night,  or  week  with  you,  it  would  be  churlish  not 
to  show  appreciation  of  the  favor  in  which  you  are  held. 
Make  them  welcome  to  the  best  you  can  offer  at  so  short  a 
notice,  and  let  no  preoccupied  air  or  troubled  smile  bear 
token  to  your  perturbation — if  you  are  perturbed.  If  you 
respect  yourself  and  your  husband,  the  appointments  of 
your  table  will  never  put  you  to  the  blush.  John,  who 
buys  the  silver,  glass,  china,  and  napery,  is  entitled  to  the 
every-day  use  of  the  best.  You  may  have — I  hope  this  is 
so — a  holiday  set  of  each,  put  away  beyond  the  I'each  of 
hourly  accidents ;  but  if  this  is  fit  for  the  use  of  a  lord, 
do  not  make  John  eat  three  hundred  and  sixty  days  in  the 
year  from  such  ware  as  would  suit  a  ditcher's  cottage.  If 
your  children  never  see  bright  silver  unless  when  "  there 
is  company,"  you  cannot  wonder,  although  you  will  be 
mortified,  at  their  making  looking-glasses  of  the  bowls  of 
the  spoons,  and  handling  the  forks  awkwardly.  Early  im- 
press upon  them  that  what  is  nice  enough  for  Papa,  is  nice 
eiiough  for  the  President.  I  have  noticed  that  where  there 
is  a  wide  difference  between  family  and  company  table  fur- 
niture, there  usually  exists  a  corresponding  disparity  be- 
tween every-day  and  company  manners. 

Especially,  let  your  welcome  bo  ready  and  hearty  when 


5 


COMPANY.  157 

jour  husband  brings  home  an  unexpected  guest.  Take 
care  he  understands  clearly  that  this  is  his  prerogative ; 
that  the  rules  by  which  you  would  govern  the"  visits  of 
your  own  sex  are  not  applicable  to  his.  Men  rarely  set 
seasons  for  their  visits.  They  snatch  an  hour  or  two  with 
an  old  chum  or  new  friend  out  of  the  hurry  of  business- 
life,  as  one  stoops  to  pluck  a  stray  violet  from  a  dusty 
roadside.  John  must  take  his  chances  when  he  can  get 
them.  If  he  can  walk  home,  arm  in  arm,  with  the  school- 
fellow he  has  not  seen  before  in  ten  years,  not  only  fear- 
lessly, but  gladly,  anticipatory  of  your  pleasure  at  the 
sight  of  his ;  if,  when  the  stranger  is  presented  to  you,  you 
receive  him  as  your  friend  because  he  is  your  husband^s,  and 
seat  him  to  a  family  dinner,  plain,  but  nicely  served,  and 
eaten  in  cheerfulness  of  heart;  if  the  children  are  well- 
behaved,  and  your  attire  that  of  a  lady  who  has  not  lost 
the  desire  to  look  her  best  in  her  husband^s  eyes — you  have 
added  to  the  links  of  steel  that  knit  your  husband's  heart 
to  you ;  increased  his  affectionate  admiration  for  the  best 
little  woman  in  the  world.  Many  a  man  has  been  driven 
to  entertain  his  friends  at  hotels  and  club-rooms,  because 
he  dared  not  take  them  home  without  permission  from  the 
presiding  officer  of  his  household.  The  majority  of  healthy 
men  have  good  appetites,  and  are  not  disposed  to  be  crit- 
ical of  an  unpretending  bill  of  fare.  The  chance  guest  of 
this  sex  is  generally  an  iigreeable  addition  to  the  family 
group,  instead  of  de  trop — always  supposing  him  to  be 
John's  friend. 

As  to  party  and  dinner-giving,  your  safest  rule  is  to 
obey  the  usage  of  the  community  in  which  you  live  in 
minor  points,  letting  common  sense  and  your  means  guide 
you  in  essentials.  Be  chary  of  undertaking  what  you  can- 
not carry  through  successfully.  Pretention  is  the  ruin  of 
more  entei'tainments  than  ignorance  or  lack  of  money.     If 


158  COMMON   SENSE. 

you  know  how  to  give  a  large  evening  party  (and  think  it 
a  pleasant  and  remunerative  investment  of  time  and  sev- 
eral hundred  dollars) — ^if  you  understand  the  machinery 
of  a  handsome  dinner-party,  and  can  afford  these  lux- 
uries, go  forward  bravely  to  success.  But  creep  before  you 
walk.  Study  established  customs  in  the  best  managed 
houses  you  visit ;  take  coimsel  with  experienced  friends ; 
now  and  then  make  modest  essays  on  your  own  responsi- 
bility, and,  insensibly,  these  crumbs  of  wisdom  will  form 
into  a  comely  loaf.  There  is  no  surer  de-appetizer — to  coin 
a  word — ^to  guests  than  a  heated,  over-&tigued,  anxious 
hostess,  who  betrays  her  inexperience  by  nervous  glances, 
abstraction  in  conversation,  and,  worst  of  all,  by  apologies. 
A  few  general  observations  are  all  I  purpose  to  offer  as 
hints  of  a  foundation  upon  which  to  build  your  plans  for 
^'  company-giving."  Have  an  abundance  of  clean  plates, 
silver,  knives,  <&c.,  laid  in  order  in  a  convenient  place, — 
such  as  an  ante-room,  or  dining-room  pantry, — ^those  de- 
signed for  each  course,  if  your  entertainment  is  a  dinner, 
upon  a  shelf  or  stand  by  themselves,  and  make  your  wait- 
ers understand  distinctly  in  advance  in  what  order  these 
are  to  be  brought  on. 

Soup  should  be  sent  up  accompanied  only  by  bread,  and 
such  sauce  as  may  be  fashionable  or  suitable.  Before  din- 
ner is  served,  however,  snatch  a  moment,  if  possible,  to 
inspect  the  table  in  person,  or  jnstruct  a  trustworthy  £Ekc- 
totum  to  see  that  everything  is  in  place,  the  water  in  the 
goblets,  a  slice  of  bread  laid  upon  a  folded  napkin  at  each 
plate,  &c.  Unless  you  have  trained,  professional  waiters, 
this  is  a  wise  precaution.  If  it  is  a  gentleman's  dinner, 
you  can  see  to  it  for  yourself,  since  you  wUl  not  be  obliged 
to  appear  in  the  parlor  until  a  few  minutes  before  they  are 
summoned  to  the  dining-room.  If  there  are  ladies  in  the 
company,  you  must  not  leave  them. 


COMPANY.  159 

To  return,  then,  to  our  soup :  It  is  not  customary  to 
offer  a  second  plateful  to  a  guest.  When  the  table  is 
cleared,  the  £sh  should  come  in,  with  potatoes — ^no  other 
vegetable,  unless  it  be  a  salad  or  stewed  tomatoes.  Fish  is 
usually  attended  by  pickles  and  sauces.  After  a  thorough 
change  of  plates,  (be.,  come  the  substantials.  Game  and 
other  meats  are  often  set  on  together,  unless  the  dinner  is 
a  very  protracted  and  formal  one.  Various  vegetables  are 
passed  to  each  when  he  has  been  helped  to  meat.  If  wine 
be  used,  it  is  introduced  after  the  fish.  Pastry  is  the  first 
relay  of  dessert,  and  puddings  may  be  served  from  the 
other  end  of  the  table.  Kext  appear  creams,  jellies,  char- 
lotte-russes,  cakes,  and  the  like ;  then  fruit  and  nuts ;  lastly 
coffee,  often  accompanied  with  crackers  and  cheese.  Wi:ie, 
of  course,  goes  around  during  the  dessert — ^if  it  flows  at  all. 

Evening  parties  are  less  troublesome  to  a  housekeeper, 
because  less  ceremonious  than  dinners.  If  you  can  afford 
it,  the  easiest  way  to  give  a  large  one  is  to  put  the  whole 
business  into  the  hands  of  the  profession,  by  intrusting 
your  order,  not  only  for  supper,  but  waiters  and  china,  to  a 
competent  confectioner.  But  a  social  standing  supper  of 
oysters,  chicken-salad,  sandwiches,  coffee,  ice-cream,  jellies, 
and  cake,  is  not  a  formidable  undertaking  when  you  have 
had  a  little  practice,  especially  if  your  own,  or  John's 
mother,  or  the  nice,  neighborly  matron  over  the  way  will 
assist  you  by  her  advice  and  presence. 

We  make  this  matter  of  company  too  hard  a  business 
in  America ;  are  too  apt  to  treat  our  friends  as  the  Stras- 
burgers  do  their  geese ;  shut  them  up  in  overheated  quar- 
ters, and  stuff  them  to  repletion.  Our  rooms  would  be 
better  for  more  air,  our  guests  happier  had  they  more 
liberty,  and  our  hostess  would  be  prettier  and  more  spright- 
ly were  she  not  overworked  before  the  arrivals  begin,  and 
full  of  trepidation  after  they  come, — ^a  woman  cumbered 


160  COHHON   8EN6E. 

with  many  thoughts  of  serving,  while  she  is  supposed  to  be 
enjoying  the  society  of  her  chosen  associates.  It  is  so  well 
understood  that  company  is  a  weariness,  that  inquiries  as  to 
how  the  principal  agent  in  bringing  about  an  assembly  has 
"  borne  it,"  have  passed  into  a  custom.  The  tender  sym- 
pathies manifested  in  such  queries,  the  martyr-like  air  with 
which  they  are  answered,  cannot  fail  to  bring  to  the  satiri- 
cal mind  the  Chinaman^s  comment  upon  the  British  officers' 
dancing  on  ship-board  in  warm  weather. 

"  Why  you  no  make  your  servants  do  so  hard  work, 
and  you  look  at  dem  ?  " 

We  pervert  the  very  name  and  meaning  of  hospitality 
when  we  pinch  our  families,  wear  away  our  patience,  and 
waste  away  our  nervous  forces  with  our  husbands'  money, 
in  getting  up  to  order  expensive  entertainments  for  com- 
pai-ative  strangers,  whose  utmost  acknowledgment  of  our 
efforts  in  their  behalf  will  consist  in  an  invitation,  a  year 
hence  it  may  be,  to  a  party  constructed  on  the  same  plan, 
managed  a  little  better  or  a  little  worse  than  oui*s.  This 
is  not  hospitality  without  grudging,  but  a  vulgar  system  of 
barter  and  gluttony  more  worthy  of  Abyssinians  than 
Christian  gentlefolk. 


VENISON. 

I  ONCE  received  a  letter  from  the  wife  of  an  Eastern 
man  who  had  removed  to  the  Great  West,  in  which  bitter 
complaints  were  made  of  the  scarcity  of  certain  comforts — 
ice-cream  and  candy  among  them — ^to  which  she  had  been 
accustomed  in  other  days.  "  My  husband  shot  a  fine  deer 
this  morning,"  she  wrote,  **  but  I  never  could  endure  ven- 
zon.     Can  you  tell  me  of  any  way  of  cooking  it  so  as  to 


VENISON.  161 

make  it  tolerably  eatible  ?  "  I  did  not  think  it  very  singu- 
lar that  one  whose  chief  craving  in  the  goodly  land  in  which 
she  had  found  a  home  was  for  cocoanut  cakes  and  choco- 
late caramels,  should  not  like  the  viand  the  name  of  which 
she  could  not  spell.  Nor  did  I  wonder  that  she  failed  to 
make  it  '^  eatible,''  or  doubt  that  her  cooking  matched  her 
orthography.  But  I  am  amazed  often  at  hearing  really 
skilful  housewives  pronounce  it  an  undesirable  dish.  In 
the  hope  of  in  some  measure  correcting  this  impression 
among  Eastern  cooks,  who,  it  must  be  allowed,  rarely  taste 
really  fresh  venison,  I  have  written  out,  with  great  care  and 
particularity,  the  following  receipts,  most  of  which  I  have 
used  in  my  own  family  with  success  and  satisftiction. 

The  dark  color  of  the  meat, — I  mean  now  not  the  black, 
but  rich  reddish-brown  flesh, — so  objectionable  to  the  unin- 
itiated, is  to  the  gourmand  one  of  its  chief  recommendations 
to  his  favor.  It  should  also  be  fine  of  grain  and  well 
coated  with  fat. 

Keep  it  hung  up  in  a  cool,  dark  cellar,  covered  with  a 
cloth,  and  use  as  soon  as  you  can  conveniently. 

Haunch  of  Yenison.  4* 

If  the  outside  be  hard,  wash  off  with  lukewarm  water ; 
then  rub  all  over  with  fresh  butter  or  lard.  Cover  it  on 
the  top  and  sides  with  a  thick  paste  of  flour  and  water, 
nearly  half  an  inch  thick.  Lay  upon  this  a  large  sheet  of 
thin  white  wrapping-paper  well  buttered,  and  above  this 
thick  foolscap.  Keep  aU  in  place  by  greased  pack-thread  ; 
then  put  down  to  roast  with  a  little  water  in  the  dripping- 
pan.  Let  the  fire  be  steady  and  strong.  Pour  a  few  ladle- 
fuls  of  butter  and  water  over  the  meat  now  and  then,  to 
prevent  the  paper  from  scorching.  If  the  haunch  is  large, 
it  will  take  at  least  five  hours  to  roast.  About  half  an 
hour  before  you  take  it  up,  remove  the  papers  and  paste. 


162  COMMON   SENSE. 

and  test  with  a  skewer  to  see  if  it  is  done.  If  this  passes 
easily  to  the  bone  through  the  thickest  part,  set  it  down  to 
a  more  moderate  fire  and  baste  every  few  minutes  with 
claret  wine  and  melted  butter.  At  the  last,  btfste  with  but- 
ter, dredge  with  flour  to  make  a  light  froth,  and  dish.  It 
should  be  a  fine  brown  by  this  time.  Twist  a  frill  of  fiinged 
paper  around  the  knuckle. 

For  gravy,  put  into  a  saucepan  a  pound  or  so  of  sci*aps 
of  raw  venison  left  from  tiimming  the  haunch,  a  quart  of 
water,  a  pinch  of  cloves,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  half  a  nut- 
meg, cayenne  and  salt  to  taste.  Stew  slowly  to  one-half  the 
original  quantity.  Skim,  strain,  and  return  to  the  sauce- 
pan when  you  have  rinsed  it  with  hot  water.  Add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly,  a  glass  of  claret,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  thicken  with  browned  flour.  Sead 
to  table  in  a  tui^eeu. 

Send  around  currant  jelly  with  venison  always. 

Neck. 

This  is  roasted  precisely  as  is  the  haunch,  allowing  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  to  a  pound. 

Shoulder. 

This  is  also  a  roasting-piece,  but  may  be  cooked  without 
the  paste  and  paper.  Baste  often  with  butter  and  water, 
and  toward  the  last,  with  claret  and  butter.  Do  not  let  it 
get  dry  for  an  instant. 

To  Stew  a  Shoulder. 

Extract  the  bones  through  the  under-side.  Make  a 
stuffing  of  several  slices  of  fat  mutton,  minced  fine  and 
wasoned  Bmartly  with  cayenne,  salt,  aUspice,  and  wine,  and 
fill  the  holes  from  which  the  bones  were  taken.  Bind 
firmly  in  shape  with  broad  tape.     Put  in  a  large  saucepan 


VENISOK.  163 

with  a  pint  of  gravy  made  from  the  refuse  bits  of  venison, 
add  a  glass  of  Madeira  or  port  ^ine,  and  a  little  black  pep- 
per. Cover  tightly  and  stew  very  slowly  three  or  four 
hours,  according  to  the  size.  It  should  be  very  tender. 
Kemove  the  tapes  with  care;  dish,  and  when  you  have 
strained  the  grav}'',  pour  over  the  meat. 
This  is  a  most  savoiy  dish. 

Venison  Steaks.  4* 

These  are  taken  from  the  neck  or  haunch.  Have  your 
gridii'on  well  buttered,  and  fire  clear  and  hot.  Lay  the 
steaks  on  the  bars  and  broil  rapidly,  turning  often,  not  to 
lose  a  drop  of  juice.  They  will  take  three  or  four  minutes 
longer  to  broil  than  beef>steaks.  Have  ready  in  a  hot  chafing- 
dish  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  e^  for  each  pound  of 
venison,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  a  tablespoonful 
currant-jelly  for  each  pound,  and  a  glass  of  wine  for  every 
four  pounds.  This  should  be  liquid,  and  warmed  by  the 
boiling  water  under  the  dish  by  the  time  the  steaks  are  done 
to  a  turn.  If  you  have  no  chafing-dish,  heat  in  a  saucepan. 
Lay  each  steak  in  the  mixture  singly,  and  turn  over  twice. 
Cover  closely  and  let  all  heat  together,  with  fresh  hot  water 
beneath — unless  your  lamp  is  burning — ^for  five  minutes 
before  serving.  If  you  serve  in  an  ordinary  dish,  cover  and 
set  in  the  oven  for  the  same  time. 

Or, 

If  you  wish  a  plainer  dish,  omit  the  wine  and  jelly ;  pepper 
and  salt  the  steaks  when  broiled,  and  lay  butter  upon  them 
in  the  proportion  I  have  stated,  letting  them  stand  between 
two  hot  dishes  five  minutes  before  they  go  to  table,  turning 
them  three  times  in  the  gravy  that  nms  from  them  to  min- 
gle with  the  melted  butter.  Delicious  steaks  con^spond- 
ing  in  shape  to  mutton  chops  are  cut  from  the  loin  and  rack. 


164  COMMON   SENSE. 

Venison  Cutlets.  4* 

Trim  the  cutlets  nicely,  and  make  gravy  of  the  refuse 
bits  in  the  proportion  of  a  cup  of  cold  water  to  half  a  pound 
of  venison.  Put  in  bones,  scraps  of  fat,  etc.,  and  set  on  in 
a  saucepan  to  stew  while  you  make  ready  the  cutlets.  Lard 
with  slips  of  fat  salt  pork  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart,  and 
projecting  slightly  on  either  side.  When  the  gravy  has 
stewed  an  hour,  strain  and  let  it  cool.  Lay  the  cutlets  in  a 
saucepan,  with  a  few  pieces  of  young  onion  on  each.  Allow 
one  onion  to  four  or  five  pounds.  It  should  not  be  flavored 
strongly  with  this.  Scatter  also  a  little  minced  parsley 
and  thyme  between  the  layers  of  meat,  with  pepper,  and  a 
very  little  gifted  nutmeg.  The  pork  lardoons  will  salt 
sufficiently.  When  you  have  put  in  all  your  meat,  pour  in 
the  gravy,  which  should  be  warm — not  hot.  Stew  steadily 
twenty  minutes,  take  up  the  cutlets  and  lay  in  a  frying-pan 
in  which  you  have  heated  just  enough  butter  to  prevent 
them  from  burning.  Fry  &Ye  minutes  very  quickly,  turn- 
ing the  cutlets  over  and  over  to  brown,  without  drying 
them.  Lay  in  order  in  a  chafing-dish,  and  have  ready  the 
gravy  to  pour  over  them  without  delay.  This  should  be 
done  by  straining  the  liquor  left  in  the  saucepan  and  return- 
ing to  the  fire,  with  the  addition  of  a  tablespoonful  of  cur- 
rant jelly,  a  teaspoonful  Worcestershire  or  other  piquant 
sauce,  and  half  a  glass  of  wine.  Thicken  with  browned 
flour,  boil  up  well  and  pour  over  the  cutlets.  Let  all  stand 
together  in  a  hot  dish  five  minutes  before  serving.  Yenison 
which  is  not  fat  or  juicy  enough  for  roasting  makes  a  relish- 
able  dish  cooked  after  this  receipt. 

Hashed  Venison.  4* 

The  remains  of  cold  roast  venison — especially  a  stufled 
shoulder — may  be  used  for  this  dish,  and  will  give  great 


VENISON.  165 

satisfaction  to  cook  and  consumers.  Slice'  the  meat  from 
the  bones.  Piit  these  with  the  fat  and  other  scraps  in  a 
saucepan,  with  a  large  teacupful  of  cold  water,  a  small 
onion — one  of  the  button  kind,  minced,  parsley  and  thyme, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  three  or  four  whole  cloves.  Stew  for 
an  hour.  Strain  and  return  to  the  saucepan,  with  whatever 
gravy  was  left  from  the  roast,  a  tablespoonful  currant  jelly, 
one  of  tomato  or  mushroom  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  an- 
chovy sauce,  and  a  little  browned  flour.  Boil  for  three 
minutes ;  lay  in  the  venison,  cut  into  slices  about  an  inch 
long,  and  let  all  heat  over  the  fire  for  eight  minutes,  but  do 
not  allow  the  hash  to  boil.  Stir  frequently,  and  when  it  is 
smoking  hot,  turn  into  a  deep  covered  dish. 

Roast  Fawn. 

Clean,  wash  thoroughly;  stuff  with  a  good  force-meat 
made  of  bread-crumbs,  chopped  pork,  pepper  and  salt,  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Moisten  with  water 
and  cream,  bind  with  beaten  egg  and  melted  butter.  Sew 
up  the  fawn,  turning  the  legs  under,  and  binding  close  to 
the  body.  Cover  with  thin  slices  of  fat  pork,  bound  on  with 
'pack-thread,  crossing  in  every  direction,  and  roast  at  a  quick 
fire.  Allow  twenty-two  minutes  to  a  pound.  Twenty  min- 
utes before  it  is  dished,  remove  the  pork,  and  set  down  the 
fawn  to  brown,  basting  with  melted  butter.  At  the  last, 
dredge  with  flour,  let  this  brown,  froth  with  butter,  and 
serve. 

Garnish  with  abundance  of  curled  parsley,  dotted  with 
drops  of  red  currant  jelly.  A  kid  can  be  roasted  in  the  same 
way — also  hares  and  rabbits. 

Yenison  Pasty.  ^ 

This  is  a  name  dear  to  the  heart  of  the  Englishman, 
since  the  days  when  Friar  Tuck  feasted  the  disguised  Coeur 


166  COMMON   SENSE. 

de  Lion  npon  it  in  the  depths  of  Sherwood  Forest,  until 
the  present  generation.  In  this  country  it  is  oomparatively 
little  known ;  but  I  recommend  it  to  those  who  have  never 
yet  been  able  to  make  venison  "  tolerably  eatable." 

Almost  any  part  of  the  deer  can  be  used  for  the  purpose, 
but  the  neck  and  shoulders  are  generally  preferred. 

Cut  the  raw  venison  from  the  bones,  and  set  aside  these, 
with  the  skin,  fat,  and  refuse  bits,  for  gitivy.  Put  them  in- 
to a  saucepan  with  a  shallot,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg  and  sweet 
herbs,  cover  well  with  cold  water,  and  set  on  to  boil. 
Meanwhile,  cut  the  better  and  fairer  pieces  of  meat  into 
squares  an  inch  long,  and  cook  in  anotlier  saucepan  until 
tliree-quarters  done.  line  a  deep  dish  with  good  puff-paste. 
That  for  the  lid  should  be  made  after  the  receipt  appended 
to  this.  Put  in  the  squares  of  venison,  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  aud  butter,  and  put  in  half  a  cupful  of  the  liquor  in 
which  the  meat  was  stewed,  to  keep  it  from  burning  at  the 
bottom.  Cover  with  a  lid  of  the  prepared  pastry  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  a  round  hole  in  the  middle,  and  if  you  have  not 
a  small  tin  cylinder  that  will  fit  this,  make  one  of  buttered 
pa2)er ;  stiff  writing-paper  is  best.  The  hole  should  be  large 
enough  to  admit  your  thumb.  Bake  steadily,  covering  the 
top  with  a  sheet  of  clean  paper  so  soon  as  it  is  firm,  to  prevent 
it  from  browning  too  fast.  While  it  is  cooking  prepare  the 
gravy.  When  all  the  substance  has  been  extracted  from  the 
bones,  etc.,  strain  the  liquor  back  into  the  saucepan ;  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  and  when  you  have  skimmed  carefully,  add 
a  glass  of  port  wine,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  and  some  browned  flour  to  thicken.  Boil  up  once, 
remove  the  plug  from  the  hole  in  the  pastry,  and  pour  in 
through  a  small  funnel,  or  a  paper  horn,  as  muck  gravy  as 
the  pie  will  hold.  Do  this  very  quickly  ;  brush  the  crust 
over  with  beaten  egg,  and  put  back  in  the  oven  until  it  is 
a  delicate  brown,  or  rather,  a  golden  russet.     The  pie  should 


VENISON.  167 

only  be  drawn  to  the  door  of  the  oven  for  these  operations, 
and  everything  should  be  in  readiness  before  it  is  taken 
out,  that  the  crust  may  be  light  and  flaky.  If  you  have 
more  gravy  than  you  need  for  the  dish,  serve  in  a  tureen. 

Crust  op  Pasty. 

H  lb.  of  flour. 
12  oz.  butter. 
3  eggs. 
Salt. 
Ice-water. 

Dry  and  sift  the  flour  and  cut  up  half  the  butter  in  it  with 
a  knife  or  diopper  until  the  whole  is  flne  and  yeUow ;  salt, 
and  work  up  with  ice-water,  lastly  adding  the  eggs  beaten 
very  light.  Work  out  rapidly,  handling  as  little  as  pos- 
sible, roll  out  three  times  very  thin,  basting  with  butter, 
then  into  a  lid  nearly  an  inch  thick,  reserving  a  thin- 
ner one  for  ornaments.  Having  covered  in  your  pie,  cut 
from  the  second  sheet  with  a  cake-cutter,  leaves,  flowers, 
stars,  or  any  figures  you  like  to  adorn  the  top  of  your  crust. 
Bake  the  handsomest  one  iipon  a  tin  plate  by  itself  and 
brush  it  over  with  egg  when  you  glaze  the  pie.  After  the 
pasty  is  baked,  cover  the  hole  in  the  centre  with  this. 

If  thesQ  directions  be  closely  followed  the  pasty  will  be 
delicious.  Bake  two  or  three  hours,  guiding  yourself  by 
the  size  of  the  pie.     It  is  good  hot  or  cold. 

Venisok  Ham. 

These  are  eaten  raw,  and  will  not  keep  so  long  as  other 
smoked  meats. 

Mix  together  in  equal  proportions,  salt  and  brown 
sugar,  and  rub  them  hard  into  the  hams  with  your  hand. 
Pack  them  in  a  cask,  sprinkling  dry  salt  between  them, 


168  COMMON   SENSE. 

and  let  them  lie  eight  days,  rubbing  them  over  every  day 
with  dry  salt  and  sugar.  Next  mix  equal  parts  of  fine  salt^ 
molasses,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  saltpetre  to  every  two  hams. 
Take  the  hams  out  of  the  pickle,  go  over  them  with  a  brush 
dipped  in  cider  vinegar,  then  in  the  new  mixture.  Empty 
the  cask,  wash  it  out  with  cold  water,  and  repack  the  hams, 
dripping  from  the  sticky  bath,  scattering  fine  salt  over  each. 
Let  them  He  eight  days  longer  in  this.  Wash  off  the  pickle 
first  with  tepid  water,  until  the  salt  crystals  are  removed ; 
then  sponge  with  vinegar,  powder  them  with  bran  while 
wet,  and  smoke  a  fortnight,  or,  if  large,  three  weeks.  Wrap 
in  brown  pap^*  that  has  no  unpleasant  odor,  stitch  a  muslin 
cover  over  this,  and  whitewash,  unless  you  mean  to  use  at 
once.     Chip  or  shave  for  the  table. 

Venison  Sausages. 

5  lbs.  lean  venison. 

2   <^    fat  salt  pork. 

5  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage. 

4  ''  salt. 

4  "  black  pepper. 

2  "  cayenne. 

1  small  onion. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Chop  the  meat  very  small,  season,  and  pack  in  skins  or 
small  stone  jai*s.  Hang  the  skins,  and  set  the  jars,  tied 
down  with  bladders,  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Fry  as  you  do  other  sausages. 

RABBITS  OR  HARES. 

The  tame  rabbit  is  rarely  if  ever  eaten.  The  wild  hai'e 
of  the  South — in  vulgar  parlance,  "  old  hare,"  although  the 
creature  may  be  but  a  day  old — exactly  corresponds  with 


BABBITS   OB   nABKS.  169 

the  rabbit  of  the  Northern  fields,  and  when  fat  and  tender, 
may  be  made  into  a  variety  of  excellent  dishes. 

Hares  are  unfit  for  eating  in  the  early  spring.  There  is 
thus  much  significance  in  *^  Mad  as  a  March  hare."  The 
real  English  hare  is  a  much  larger  animal  than  that  which 
is  known  in  this  country  by  this  name.  To  speak  correctly, 
all  our  "  old  field  hares  "  are  wild  rabbits. 

Roast  Rabbit. 

Clean,  wash,  and  soak  in  water  slightly  salted  for  an 
hour  and  a  half,  changing  it  once  during  this  time.  It  is 
best  to  make  your  butcher  or  hired  man  skin  it  before 
you  undertake  to  handle  it.  Afterward,  the  task  is  easy 
enough.  Parboil  the  heart  and  liver,  chop  fine,  and  mix 
with  a  slice  of  fat  pork,  also  minced.  Make  a  force-meat 
of  bread-crumbs,  well  seasoned  and  quite  moist,  using  the 
water  in  which  the  giblets  were  boiled,  and  working  in  the 
minced  meat.  Stuff  the  body  with  this,  and  sew  it  up. 
Rub  with  butter  and  roast,  basting  with  butter  and  water 
until  the  gra^'y  flows  freely,  then  with  the  dripping.  It 
should  be  done  in  an  hour.  Dredge  with  flour  a  few  min- 
utes before  taking  it  up,  then  froth  with  butter.  Lay  in  a 
hot  dish,  add  to  the  gravy  a  little  lemon-juice,  a  young 
onion  minced,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  thicken  with 
browned  flour.  Give  it  a  boil  up,  and  serve  in  a  tureen  or 
boat. 

Garnish  the  rabbit  with  sliced  lemon,  and  put  a  dot  of 
currant  jelly  in  the  centre  of  each  slice.  Cut  off  the  head 
before  sending  to  table. 

Rabbits  Stewed  with  Onions. 

Clean  a  pair  of  nice  rabbits ;  soak  in  cold  salt  and  water 
for  an  hour,  to  draw  out  the  blood ;  put  on  in  a  large  sauce- 

8 


170  COMMON  SENSE. 

pan  with  cold  water  enough  to  cover  them,  salt  slightly, 
and  stew  until  tender.  Slice  in  another  pot  half  a  dozen 
onions,  and  boil  in  a  very  little  water  until  thoroughly  done. 
Drain  oflF  the  water,  and  stir  the  onions  into  a  gill  of  drawn 
butter,  pepper  to  taste,  and  when  it  simmers,  add  tlie  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Cat  off  the  heads  of  the  hares,  lay  in  a  hot 
dish  and  pour  over  them  the  onion-sauce.  Let  the  dish 
stand  in  a  warm  place,  closely  covered,  five  minutes  before 
sending  to  table. 

Fricasseed  Babbit  ( White),  t^t 

Clean  two  young  rabbits,  cut  into  joints,  and  soak  in 
salt  and  water  an  hour.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  pint 
of  cold  water,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion  finely 
minced,  a  pinch  of  mace,  one  of  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  half  a 
pound  of  fat  salt  pork,  cut  into  slips.  Cover,  and  stew 
until  tender.  Take  out  the  rabbits  and  set  in  a  dish  where 
they  will  keep  warm.  Add  to  the  gravy  a  cup  of  cream  (or 
milk),  two  well-beaten  eggs  stirred  in  a  little  at  a  time,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  up  once — ^when  you  have 
thickened  with  flour  wet  in  cold  milk — ^and  take  the  saucepan 
from  the  fire.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  stirring  all 
the  while,  and  pour  over  the  rabbits.  Do  not  cook  the  head 
or  neck. 

Fricasseed  Babbit  {Brown), 

Cut  off  the  head, — joint,  and  lay  in  soak  for  an  hour. 
Season  the  pieces  with  pepper  and  salt,  dredge  with  flour, 
and  fry  in  butter  or  nice  dripping  until  brown.  Take  from 
the  fat,  lay  in  a  saucepan,  and  cover  with  broth  made  of 
bits  of  veal  or  lamb.  Add  a  minced  onion,  a  great  spoonful 
of  walnut  catsup,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  pinch  of  cloves 
and  one  of  allspice,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne.  Cover 
closely,  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour.     Lay  the  pieces  of 


BABBITS  OB  HABBS.  171 

bare  in  order  upon  a  hot  dish  and  cover  to  keep  warm. 
.  Strain  the  gravy,  return  to  the  saucepan,  thicken  with 
browned  flour,  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  pour  over  the  rabbits,  and  send  to 
table. 

Labded  Rabbit. 

Cut  off  the  head  and  divide  the  body  into  joints.  Lard 
with  slips  of  fat  pork ;  put  into  a  clean  hot  frying-pan  and 
fry  until  half  done.  Have  ready  some  strained  gravy  made 
of  veal  or  beef — ^the  first  is  better ;  put  the  pieces  of  rabbit 
into  a  saucepan,  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  minced  onion, 
and  some  pepper.  Stew^  closely  covered,  half  an  hour,  or 
until  tender :  take  out  the  rabbits  and  lav  in  a  hot  covered 
dish.  Strain  the  gravy,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  thicken  with  flour.  Boil  up  and  pour 
over  the  meat. 

Fried  Rabbit. 

They  must  be  very  tender  for  this  purpose.     Cut  into 

joints ;  soak  for  an  hour  in  salt  and  water ;  dip  in  beaten 

egg,  then  in  powdered  cracker,  and  fry  brown  in  nice  sweet 

lard  or  dripping.     Serve  with  onion  sauce.     Garnish  with 

sliced  lemon. 

Barbecued  Rabbit,  tj^ 

Clean  and  wash  the  rabbit,  which  must  be  plump  and 
young,  and  having  opened  it  all  the  way  on  the  under-side, 
lay  it  flat,  with  a  small  plate  or  saucer  to  keep  it  down,  in 
salted  water  for  half  an  hour.  Wipe  dry  and  broil  whole, 
with  the  exception  of  the  head,  when  you  have  gashed 
across  the  back-bone  in  eight  or  ten  places  that  the  heat 
may  penetrate  this,  the  thickest  part.  Tour  fire  should  be 
hot  and  clear,  the  rabbit  turned  often.  When  browned  and 
tender,  lay  upon  a  very  hot  dish,  pepper  and  salt  and  butter 
profusely,  turning  the  rabbit  over  and  over  to  soak  up  the 


172  COMMON  SENSE. 

melted  butter.  Cover  and  set  in  the  oven  for  five  mintites, 
and  heat  in  a  tin  cup  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  season- 
ed with  one  of  made  mustard.  Anoint  the  hot  rabbit  well 
with  this,  cover  and  send  to  table  garnished  with  crisped 
parsley. 

The  odor  of  this  barbecue  is  most  appetizing,  and  the 
taste  not  a  whit  inferior. 

Babbit  Pie. 

Cut  a  pair  of  rabbits  into  eight  pieces  each,  soak  in  salt- 
ed water  half  an  hour,  and  stew  until  half  done  in  enough 
water  to  cover  them.  Cut  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  pork 
into  slips,  and  boil  four  eggs  hard.  Lay  some  bits  of  pork 
in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish  and  upon  these  a  layer  of  the 
rabbit.  Upon  this  spread  slices  of  boiled  egg,  peppered  and 
buttered.  Sprinkle,  moreover,  with  a  little  powdered  mace, 
and  squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice  upon  each  piece  of 
meat.  Proceed  in  this  order  until  the  dish  is  full,  the  top 
layer  being  pork.  Pour  in  the  water  in  which  the  rabbit 
was  boiled,  when  you  have  salted  it  and  added  some  lumps 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Cover  with  puff-paste,  cut  a  slit 
in  the  middle,  and  bake  one  hour,  laying  paper  over  the  top 
should  it  brown  too  fast. 

SQUIRRELS. 

The  large  gray  squirrel  is  seldom  eaten  at  the  North, 
but  in  great  request  in  Virginia  and  other  Southern  States. 
It  is  generally  barbecued,  precisely  as  are  rabbits ;  broiled, 
Mcasseed,  or — ^most  popular  of  all — made  into  a  Brunswick 
stew.  This  is  named  from  Brunswick  County,  Virginia,  and 
is  a  famous  dish-— or  was — at  the  political  and  social  pic-nics 
known  as  barbecues.  I  am  happy  to  be  able  to  give  a  re- 
ceipt for  this  stew  that  is  genuine  and  explicit,  and  for 
which  I  am  indebted  to  a  Virginia  housekeeper. 


BQTJIBBEL8.  173 

Brunswick  Stew.  4* 

2  sqxiirrels— 3,  if  small. 

1  quart  of  tomatoes — peeled  and  sliced. 

1  pint  butter-beans,  or  Lima. 

6  potatoes,  parboiled  and  sliced. 

6  ears  of  green  com  cut  from  the  cob. 

•J-  lb.  butter. 

•}-  '^  fat  salt  pork. 

1  teaspoonful  ground  black  pepper. 

Half  a  teaspoonful  cayenne. 

1  gallon  water. 

1  tablespoonfiil  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  wbite  sugar. 
1  onion,  minced  small. 

Put  on  the  water  with  the  salt  in  it,  and  boil  five  min- 
utes. Put  in  the  onion,  beans,  com,  pork  or  bacon  cut 
into  shreds,  potatoes,  pepper,  and  the  squirrels,  which  must 
first  be  cut  into  joints  and  laid  in  cold  salt  and  water  to 
draw  out  the  blood.  Cover  closely  and  stew  two  and  a 
half  hours  very  slowly,  stirring  frequently  from  the  bot- 
tom. Then  add  the  tomatoes  and  sugar,  and  stew  an  hour 
longer.  Ten  minutes  before  you  take  it  from  the  fire  add 
the  butter,  cut  into  bits  the  size  of  a  walnut,  rolled  in 
flour.  Give  a  final  boil,  taste  to  see  that  it  is  seasoned  to 
your  liking,  and  turn  into  a  soup-tureon.  It  is  eaten  from 
soup-plates.     Chickens  may  be  substituted  for  squirrels. 

• 

BjiOOtT  OF  Squibrels. 

Skin,  clean,  and  quarter  a  pair  of  fine  young  squirrels, 
and  soak  in  salt  and  water  to  draw  out  the  blood.  Slice  a 
tolerably  large  onion  and  fry  brown  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Stir  into  the  frying-pan  five  tablespoonfuls  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  thicken  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  browned 


174  OOMMOK  8ENBE. 

flour.  Put  the  squirrels  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  quarter 
of  a  pouncL  of  bacon  cut  into  slips ;  season  with  pepper  and 
bait  to  taste,  add  the  onions  and  their  gravy,  and  half  a 
cupful  of  tepid  water.  Cover  and  stew  for  forty  minutes, 
or  until  tender ;  pour  in  a  glass  of  wine  and  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  shake  around  well,  and  turn  into  a  deep  cov- 
ered dish. 

Broiled  Squirrels. 

Clean  and  soak  to  draw  out  the  blood.  Wipe  dry  and 
broil  over  a  hot,  clear  fire,  turning  often.  When  done,  lay 
in  a  hot  dish  and  anoint  with  melted  butter,  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Use  at  least  a  tablespoonful  for  each 
squirrel,  and  let  it  lie  between  two  hot  dishes  five  minutes 
before  sending -to  table. 

PHEASANTS,  PARTRIDGES,   QUAILS,   GROUSE, 

ETC. 

The  real  pheasant  is  never  sold  in  American  markets. 
The  bird  known  as  such  at  the  South  is  called  a  partridge 
at  the  North,  and  is,  properly  speaking,  the  ruffled  grouse. 
The  Northern  quail  is  the  English  and  Southern  partridge. 
The  wild  fowls  brought  by  the  hundred  dozen  from  the  Far 
West  to  Eastern  cities,  and  generally  styled  prairie-fowls, 
are  a  species  of  grouse.  The  mode  of  cooking  all  these  is 
substantially  the  same. 

Roast. 

Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  as  you  do  chickens ;  roast  at  a 
hot  fire,  and  baste  with  butter  and  water  until  brown ; 
sprinkle  with  salt,  dredge  lightly  at  the  last  with  flour  to 
froth  the  birds,  and  serve  hot.  Thicken  the  gravy  with 
browned  flour,  boil  up,  and  serve  in  a  boat.  Wash  the  in- 
side of  all  game — prairie-fowls  in  particular — ^with  soda  and 
water,  rinsing  out  carefully  afterward  with  fair  water. 


PHEASANTS,   PAETKIDGES,    QUAILS,   ETC.  175 

Broiled. 

Clean,  wash,  and  split  down  the  back.  Lay  in  cold 
water  half  an  hour.  Wipe  carefully,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  broil  on  a  gridiron  over  a  bright  fire.  When 
done,  lay  in  a  hot  di&h,  butter  on  both  sides  well,  and  serve 
at  once. 

Broiled  quails  are  delicious  and  nourishing  fare  for  in- 
valids. 

Grouse  roasted  with  Bacon.  4^ 

Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  as  usual.  Cover  the  entire  bird 
with  thin  slices  of  corned  ham  or  pork,  binding  all  with 
buttered  pack-thread.  Koast  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
basting  with  butter  and  water  three  times,  then  with  the 
dripping.  When  quite  done,  dish  with  the  ham  laid  about 
the  body  of  the  bird.  Skim  the  gravy,  thicken  with 
browned  flour,  season  with  pepper  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Boil  up  once. 

Quails  roasted  with  BEam.  >j^ 

Proceed  as  with  the  grouse,  but  cover  the  ham  or  pork 
with  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  having  secured  the  slices  of 
meat  with  pack-thread.  Stitch  the  papers  on,  and  keep 
them  well  basted  with  butter  and  water,  that  they  may  not 
bum.  Boast  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  if  the  ^q  is  good. 
Bemove  the  papers  and  meat  before  sending  to  table,  and 
brown  quickly.     This  is  the  nicest  way  of  cooking  quails. 

Salmi  of  Game. 

Cut  cold  roast  partridges,  grouse,  or  quaUs  into  joints, 
and  lay  aside  while  you  prepare  the  gravy.  This  is  made 
of  the  bones,  dressing,  skin,  and  general  odds  and  ends, 
after  you  have  selected  the  neatest  pieces  of  the  birds.  Put 
these — the  scraps — into  a  saucepan,  with  one  small  onion. 


176  OOMHOK  BEN8E. 

minced,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs;  pour  in  a  pint  of 
water,  and  whatever  gravy  you  may  have,  and  stew,  close- 
ly covered,  for  nearly  an  hour.  A  few  bits  of  pork  should 
be  added  if  you  have  no  gravy.  Skim  and  straiii,  retui*n 
to  the  filre,  and  add  a  little  brown  sherry  and  lemon-juice, 
with  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  ;  thicken  with  brown  flour,  if  the 
stuffing  has  not  thickened  it  sufficiently,  boil  up,  and  pour 
over  the  reserved  meat,  which  should  be  put  into  another 
saucepan.  Warm  until  all  is  smoking-hot,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil.  Arrange  the  pieces  of  bird  in  a  symmetrical  heap 
upon  a  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  them. 

Game  Pie — {Vert/Jine). 

This  may  be  made  of  any  of  the  birds  named  in  the 
foregoing  receipts.  Grouse  and  quails  together  make  a  de- 
lightful Chiistmas  pie.  Clean  and  wash  the  birds ;  cut  the 
quails  in  half,  the  grouse  into  four  pieces.  Trim  off  bits 
of  the  inferior  portions,  necks,  lower  ribs,  etc.,  and  put 
them  with  the  giblets  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  water,  if  your  pie  requires  six  birds.  While  this  is 
stewing  make  a  good  puff-paste  and  line  a  large  pudding- 
dish,  reserving  enough  for  a  lid  at  least  half  an  inch  thick. 
When  the  livers  are  tender,  take  them  out,  leaving  the 
gravy  to  stew  in  the  covered  saucepan.  Lard  the  breasts 
of  the  birds  with  tiny  strips  of  salt  pork,  and  mince  a  cou- 
ple of  slices  of  the  same  with  the  livers,  a  bunch  of  parsley, 
sweet  marjoram,  and  thyme,  also  chopped  fine,  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  pepper,  and  a  very  small  shallot.  Make  a  force- 
meat of  this,  with  bread-crumbs  moistened  with  warm 
milk.  Put  some  thin  strips  of  cold  corned  (not  smoked) 
ham  in  the  bottom  of  the  pie,  next  to  the  crust ;  lay  upon 
these  pieces  of  the  bird,  peppered  and  buttered,  then  a  layer 
of  the  force-meat,  and  so  on,  until  you  are  ready  for  the 
gravy.      Strain  this,  return  to  the  fire,  and  season  with 


PHEASANTS,   PAETBIDGES,    QUAILS,   ETC.  177 

pepper  and  a  glass  of  wine.  Heat  to  a  boil,  pour  into  the 
pie,  and  cover  with  the  upper  crust,  cutting  a  slit  in  the 
middle.  Ornament  with  pastry  leaves,  arranged  in  a 
wreath  about  the  edge,  and  in  the  middle  a  pastry  bird, 
with  curled  strips  of  pastry  about  it.  These  last  should  be 
baked  separately  and  laid  on  when  the  pie  is  done,  to  cover 
the  hole  in  the  middle. 

Bake  three  hours  if  your  pie  is  large,  covering  with  pa- 
per if  it  threaten  to  brown  too  fast. 

Quail  Pie. 

Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  the  birds.  Loosen  the  joints  with 
a  penknife,  but  do  not  separate  them.  Parboil  them  for 
ten  minutes,  while  you  prepare  a  puff-paste.  Line  a  deep 
dish  with  this ;  put  in  the  bottom  some  shreds  of  salt  pork 
or  ham ;  next,  a  layer  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  buttered  and 
peppered;  then  the  birds,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and 
minced  parsley.  Squeeze  some  lemon-juice  upon  them,  and 
lay  upon  the  breasts  pieces  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Cover 
with  slices  of  egg,  then  with  shred  ham ;  pour  in  some  of 
the  gravy  in  which  the  quails  were  parboiled,  and  put  on 
the  lid,  leaving  a  hole  in  the  middle.     Bake  over  an  hour. 

Wild  Pioeonb  (Stewed),  t^* 

Clean  and  wash  very  carefully,  then  lay  in  salt  and  wa- 
ter for  an  hour.  Binse  the  inside  with  soda  and  water, 
shaking  it  well  about  in  the  cavity ;  wash  out  with  fair 
water  and  stuff  with  a  force-meat  made  of  bread-crumbs  and 
chopped  salt  pork,  seasoned  with  pepper.  Sew  up  the  birds, 
and  put  on  to  stew  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them, 
and  allow  to  each  a  fair  slice  of  fat  bacon  cut  into  narrow 
strips.  Season  with  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg.  Boil 
slowly  in  a  covered  saucepan  until  tender ;  take  from  the 
gi  avy  and  lay  in  a  covered  dish  to  keep  warm.     Strain  the 

8* 


178  COMMON  SENSE. 

gravy,  axld  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  tablespoonful  of  cur- 
rant jelly,  thickening  with  browned  flour.  Boil  up  and 
pour  over  the  pigeons. 

WiLD-PiGEON  Pie.  >j^ 

This  is  made  precisely  as  is  quail  pie,  except  that  the 
pigeons  are  cut  into  four  pieces  each,  and  not  stutFed.  Far- 
boil  and  lay  in  the  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  the  bacon 
and  boiled  eggs.  Make  the  gravy  richer  than  for  the  quails, 
by  the  addition  of  a  good  lump  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour, 
stirred  in  and  boiled  up  to  thicken  before  you  put  it  on 
the  fire.  Wild  pigeons  are  usually  tougher  and  leaner  than 
tame. 

WILD  DUCKS. 

Nearly  all  wild  ducks  are  liable  to  have  a  fishy  flavor, 
and  when  handled  by  inexpeiienced  cooks,  are  sometimes 
uneatable  from  this  cause.  Before  roasting  them,  guard 
against  this  by  parboiling  them  with  a  small  carrot,  peeled, 
put  within  each.  This  will  absorb  the  unpleasant  taste.  An 
onion  will  have  the  same  effect ;  but,  unless  you  mean  to 
use  onion  in  the  stuffing,  the  carrot  is  preferable.  In  my 
own  kitchen  I  usually  put  in  the  onion,  considering  a  sus- 
picion of  garlic  a  desideratum  in  roast  duck,  whether  wild 
or  tame. 

Boast  Duck  (Wild), 

Parboil  as  above  directed ;  throw  away  the  carrot  or 
onion,  lay  in  fresh  water  half  an  hour ;  stuff  with  bread- 
ciTimbs  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  sage,  and  onion,  and 
roast  until  brown  and  tender,  basting  for  half  the  time  with 
butter  and  water,  then  with  the  drippings.  Add  to  the 
gravy,  when  you  have  taken  up  the  ducks,  a  tablespoonful 
of  currant  jelly,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Thicken  with 
browned  flour  and  serve  in  a  tureen. 


WILD  DUCKS — WILD  TUEKEY.  179 

Wild  Ducks  {Stewed),  4^ 

Parboil  ten  minutes,  when  you  have  drawn  them^  and 
put  in  a  raw  carrot  or  onion.  Lay  in  very  cold  water  half 
an  hour.  Cut  into  joints,  pepper,  salt,  and  flour  them. 
Have  ready  some  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  fry  them  a 
light  brown.  Put  them  in  asaucepsinand  cover  with  gravy 
made  of  the  giblets,  necks,  and  some  bits  of  lean  veal.  Add 
a  minced  shallot,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Cover  closely  and  stew  half  an  hour,  or  until  tender.  Take 
out  the  duck,  strain  the  gravy  when  you  have  skimmed  it ; 
put  in  a  half-eup  of  cream  or  lich  milk  in  which  an  egg  has 
been  beaten,  thicken  with  browned  flour,  add  a  tablespoon- 
ftd  of  wine  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  beaten  in  gradual- 
ly not  to  curdle  the  cream ;  boil  up  and  pour  over  the  ducks. 
This  is  about  the  bedt  way  of  cooking  wild  ducks. 

WILD  TURKEY. 

This  stately  stalker  of  Southern  forests  and  Western 
praiiies  is  eagerly  sought  after  by  the  lovers  of  good  eating 
in  those  regions.  The  dark  meat  and  game  flavor  proclaim 
his  birthright  of  lordly  freedom  as  truly  after  he  is  slain 
and  cooked,  as  did  his  lithe  grace  of  figure,  lofty  carriage, 
and  bright  eye  while  he  trod  his  native  wilds.  I  have  heard 
sportsmen  declare  that  when  they  have  inveigled  him  up  to  a 
blind  by  imitating  the  call  of  his  harem  or  younglings,  they 
have  stood  in  covert,  gun  at  shoulder  and  finger  on  the 
trigger,  spell-bound  by  pitying  admiration  of  his  beauty. 
But  I  have  never  seen  that  sensibility  curbed  appetite  while 
they  told  the  story  at  the  table  adorned  by  the  royal  bird ; 
have  noted,  indeed,  that  their  mouths  watered  rather  than 
their  eyes,  as  he  crumbled,  like  a  dissolving  view,  under  the 
blade  of  the  carver. 

Draw  and  wash  the  inside  very  carefully,  as  with  all 


i 

180  (X)MMON   BENSE. 

game.  Domestic  fowls  are,  or  should  be,  kept  up  without 
eating  for  at  least  twelve  hours  before  thej'  are  killed ;  but 
we  must  shoot  wild  when  we  can  get  the  chance,  and  of 
course  it  often  happens  that  their  crops  are  distended  by  a 
recent  hearty  meal  of  rank  or  green  food.  Wipe  the  cavity 
with  a  dry  soft  cloth  before  you  stuff.  Have  a  rich  force- 
meat, bread-crumbs,  some  bits  of  fat  pork,  chopped  fine, 
I)epper,  and  salt.  Moisten  with  milk,  and  beat  in  an  egg 
and  a  couple  of  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Baste  with 
butter  and  water  for  the  first  hour,  then  three  or  four  times 
with  the  gravy;  lastly,  five  or  six  times  with  melted  butter.  A 
generous  and  able  housekeeper  told  me  once  that  she  al- 
ways allowed  a  pound  of  butter  for  basting  a  large  wild 
turkey.  This  was  an  extravagant  quantity,  but  the  meat 
is  diier  than  that  of  the  domestic  fowl,  and  not  nearly  so 
fat.  Dredge  with  flour  at  the  last,  froth  with  butter,  and 
when  he  is  of  a  tempting  brown,  serve.  Skim  the  gravy, 
add  a  little  hot  water,  pepper,  thicken  with  the  giblets  chop- 
ped fine  and  browned  flour,  boil  up,  and  pour  into  a  tureen. 
At  the  South  the  giblets  are  not  put  in  the  gravy,  but  laid 
whole,  one  under  each  wing,  when  the  turkey  is  dished. 
Garnish  with  small  fried  sausages,  not  larger  than  a  dollar, 
crisped  parsley  between  them. 

Send  around  currant  jelly  and  cranberry  sauce  with  it. 

SMALL  BIRDS. 

Roast  Snipe  or  Plovers, 

Clean  and  truss,  but  do  not  stuff.  Lay  in  rows  in  the 
dripping-pan,  or  tie  upon  a  spit,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  baste 
well  with  butter,  then  with  butter  and  water.  When  they 
begin  to  brown,  which  will  be  in  about  ten  minutes,  cut  as 
many  rounds  of  bread  (without  crust)  as  there  are  birds. 
Toast  quickly,  butter,  and  lay  in  the  dripping-pan,  a  bird 


SMALL  BISDS.  181 

upon  each.  When  the  birds  are  done,  serve  upon  the  toast, 
-with  the  gravy  poured  over  it.  The  toast  should  lie  under 
them  while  cooking  at  least  five  minutes,  during  which  time 
the  birds  should  be  basted  with  melted  butter  seasoned 
with  pepper. 

The  largest  snipe  will  not  requii*e  above  twenty  minutes 
to  roast. 

Woodcock. 

This  is  the  most  delicious  of  small  birds,  and  may  be 
either  roasted  or  broiled. 

HoasL 

The  English  do  not  draw  woodcock,  regarding  the  trail 
as  a  borme  bauchcy  and  I  have  known  American  house- 
keepers who  copied  them  in  this  respect.  In  this  case, 
roast  precisely  as  you  would  snipe  or  plover,  only  putting 
the  toast  under  the  birds  so  soon  as  they  begin  to  cook, 
to  catch  the  trail. 

To  my  taste,  a  better,  and  certainly  to  common  sense 
people  a  less  objectionable  plan,  is  to  fill  the  birds  with  a 
rich  force-meat  of  bread-crumbs,  peppered  and  salted,  mois- 
tened with  cream  until  it  is  very  soft,  and  shortened  with 
melted  butter.  Sew  them  up  and  roast,  basting  with  butter 
and  water,  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour.  When 
half  done,  put  circular  slices  of  buttered  toast  beneath, 
and  serve  upon  these  when  you  take  them  up. 

broiled. 

Split  down  the  back,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  Butter, 
pepper,  and  salt  when  done,  and  let  them  lie  between  two 
hot  dishes  for  five  minutes  before  sending  to  table.  Small 
snipe  are  nice  broiled  in  this  way ;  also  robins  and  doves. 


182  OOMMON  8E1T8E. 

Salmi  of  Woodcock  oe  Snipe. 

Clean  and  half-roast  the  birds ;  cut  in  quarters,  and  put 
in  a  saucepan  with  gravy  made  of  the  giblets,  necks,  and 
some  bits  of  fat  pork,  stewed  in  a  little  water.  Add  a 
minced  button  onion,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  stew 
fifteen  minutes  or  until  tender,  closely  covered.  Take  out 
the  birds,  and  pile  neatly  upon  buttered  toast  in  a  chafing- 
dish.  Strain  the  gravy  and  return  to  the  fire,  adding  some 
small  pieces  of  butter  rolled  in  fiour,  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  little  wine.     Boil  up,  and  pour  over  the  salmi. 

Ortolans,  Reed-Birds,  Bail,  and  Sora 

may  be  roasted  or  broiled.  A  good  way  is  to  roll  an  oyster 
in  melted  butter,  then  in  bread-crumbs  seasoned  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  put  into  each  bird  before  roasting.  Baste 
with  butter  and  water  three  times,  put  the  rounds  of  toast 
underneath,  and  baste  freely  with  melted  butter.  They 
will  require  about  twelve  minutes  to  cook,  and  will  be 
found  delicious. 

To  Keep  Game  prom  Tainting. 

Draw  so  soon  as  they  come  into  joxir  possession  ;  rinse 
with  soda  and  water,  then  with  pure  cold  water ;  wipe  dry, 
and  rub  them  Hghtly  with  a  mixture  of  fine  salt  and  black 
pepper.  If  you  must  keep  them  some  time,  put  in  the 
cavity  of  each  fowl  a  piece  of  charcoal ;  hang  them  in  a 
cool,  dark  place,  with  a  cloth  thrown  over  them.  Small 
birds,  unless  there  are  too  many  of  them,  may  be  kept  in 
a  refrigerator  after  you  have  drawn,  washed,  and  wiped 
them. 

The  charcoal  is  an  admirable  preventive  of  decompo- 
sition. 


BAU0E8  FOB  MSAT  AND  FIBH.  188 

SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH. 

These  are  no  longer  tlie  appendages  of  the  rich  man's 
bill  of  fare  only.  A  general  knowledge  of  made  sauces, 
as  well  as  the  more  expensive  ones  imported  from  abroad 
and  sold  here  at  high  prices,  is  a  part  of  every  intelligent 
housekeeper's  culinary  education.  Few  are  so  ignorant  as 
to  serve  a  fish  sauce  with  game,  or  vice  verad.  From  the 
immense  number  of  receipts  which  I  have  collected  and 
examined,  I  have  selected  comparatively  few  but  such  as 
I  consider  ^^  representative  "  articles.  The  ingenious  house- 
wife is  at  liberty,  as  I  have  said  before,  elsewhere,  to  modify 
and  improve  upon  them. 

First,  par  exceUencey  as  the  most  important,  and  because 
it  is  the  groundwork  of  many  others,  1  place 

Melted  or  Drawn  Butter. 

No.  1. 

2  teaspoonfuls  flour. 
1^  ounce  butter. 
1  teacupful  water  or  milk. 
A  little  salt. 

Put  the  flour  and  salt  in  a  bowl,  and  add  a  little  at  a 
time  of  the  water  or  milk,  working  it  very  smooth  as  you 
go  on.  Put  into  a  tin  cup  or  saucepan,  and  set  in  a  vessel 
of  boiling  water.  As  it  warms,  stir,  and  when  it  has  boiled 
a  minute  or  more,  add  the  butter  by  degrees,  stirring  all 
the  time  until  it  is  entirely  melted  and  incorporated  with 
the  flour  and  water.     Boil  one  minute. 

Mix  with  milk  when  you  wish  to  use  for  puddings ; 
with  water  for  meats  and  fish. 


184  OOMMOK  SEK8B. 

No.  2. 

1 J  teaspoonful  of  flour. 

2  ounces  butter. 

1  teacupful  (small)  hot  water. 

Wet  the  flour  to  a  thin  smooth  paste  with  cold  water^ 
and  stir  into  the  hot,  which  should  be  in  the  inner  vessel. 
When  it  boils,  add  the  butter  by  degrees,  and  stir  until 
w^ll  mixed.     Boil  one  minute. 

No.  3. 

3  ounces  butter. 
Half-pint  water  (hot). 
A  beaten  egg. 
1  heaping  teaspoonful  flour. 

Wet  the  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk, 
and  add  to  the  hot  water  in  the  inner  vessel,  stirring  until 
thick.  Have  ready  the  beaten  egg  in  a  cup.  Take  a  tea- 
spoonful of  the  mixture  from  the  fire,  and  beat  with  this 
until  Ught ;  then  another,  and  still  another.  Set  aside  the 
cup  when  this  is  done,  and  stir  the  butter  into  the  con- 
tents of  the  inner  saucepan  gradually,  until  thoroughly 
mixed,  then  add  the  beaten  egg  in  the  same  way.  There  is 
no  danger  of  clotting  the  egg,  if  it  be  treated  as  I  have 
described. 

Ego  Sauce.  ^ 

3  hard-boiled  eggs. 

A  good  teacupful  drawn  butter. 
A  little  salt. 

Chop  the  yolks  only  of  the  eggs  very  fine,  and  beat 
into  the  hot  drawn  butter,  salting  to  taste. 

This  is  used  for  boiled  fowls  and  boiled  fish.  For  the 
former,  you  can  add  some  minced  parsley ;  for  the  latter, 


SAUCES  FOB  MEAT  AND  EIBH.  185 

chopped  pickles,  capers,  or  nasturtium  seed.  For  boiled 
beef,  a  small  shallot  minced  fine. 

Or, 

Omit  the  boiled  eggs,  and  beat  up  two  raw  ones  very  light 
and  put  into  the  drawn  butter  instead,  as  directed  in  No.  3. 
For  boiled  beef  or  chicken,  you  may  make  the  drawn  but- 
ter of  hot  liquor  taken  from  the  pot  in  which  the  meat  is 
cooking,  having  first  carefully  skimmed  it. 

Sauce  fob  Boiled  or  Baked  Fish. 

4  ounces  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  flour. 

2  anchovies. 

1  teaspoonful  chopped  capers,  or  nasturtium  seed, 
or  green  pickle. 

1  shallot. 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

1  tablespoonful  vinegar. 

1  teacupful  hot  water. 
Put  the  water  into  the  inner  saucepan,  chop  the  an- 
chovies and  shallot,  and  put  in  with  the  pepper  and  salt. 
Boil  two  minutes,  and  strain  back  into  the  saucepan  when 
you  havO'  rinsed  with  hot  water.  Now  add  the  flour  wet 
smooth  with  cold  water,  and  stir  iintil  it  thickens  ;  put  in 
the  butter  by  degrees,  and,  when  it  is  thoroughly  melted 
and  mixed,  the  vinegar ;  lastly,  the  capers  and  a  Uttle  nut- 
meg. 

White  Sauce  for  Fish,  t^ 

Make  drawn  butter  by  receipt  No.  2,  but  with  double 
the  quantity  of  flour,  and  use,  instead  of  water,  the  liquor 
in  which  the  fish  was  boiled.  Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk,  in  which  a  shallot  and  a  head  of  celery  or  a  pinch  of 


186  COMMON   6ENBE. 

celery  seed  has  been  boiled,  then  strained  out.  Boil  one 
minute,  and  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 

Oybteb  Sauce.  4^ 

1  pint  oysters. 
Half  a  lemon. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  flour. 

1  teacupful  milk  or  cream. 
Cayenne  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Stew  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  Ave  minutes,  and 
add  the  milk.  When  this  boils,  strain  the  liquor  and  re- 
turn to  the  saucepan.  Thicken  with  the  flour  when  you 
have  wet  it  with  cold  water ;  stir  well  in ;  put  in  the  but- 
ter, next  the  cayenne  (if  you  like  it),  boil  one  minute ; 
squeeze  in  the  lemon-juice,  shake  it  around  well,  and  pour 

out. 

Or, 

Orain  the  oysters  dry  without  cooking  at  all ;  make  the 
sauce  with  the  liquor  and  other  ingredients  just  named. 
Chop  the  raw  oysters,  and  stir  in  when  you  do  the  butter ; 
boil  five  minutes,  and  pour  into  the  tureen.  Some  put  in 
the  oysters  whole,  considering  that  the  sauce  is  handsomer 
than  when  they  are  chopped. 

Oyster  sauce  is  used  for  boiled  halibut,  cod,  and  other 
fish,  for  boiled  turkey,  chickens,  and  white  meats  generally. 

Crab  Sauce. 

1  crab,  boiled  and  cold. 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 
1  teacupful  drawn  butter. 
Cayenne,. mace,  and  salt  to  taste. 


SAUCBS  FOB  MEAT  AND  FISH.  187 

Make  the  drawn  butter  as  usual,  and  stir  in  the  milk. 
Pick  the  meat  fix>m  the  crab,  chop  very  fine,  season  with 
cayenne,  mace,  and  salt  to  taste ;  stir  into  the  drawn  but- 
ter.    Simmer  three  minutes,  but  do  not  boil. 

Lobster  sauce  is  very  nice  made  as  above,  with  the  ad- 
dition of  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard  and  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.     This  is  a  good  fish  sauce. 

Anchovy  Saucb. 

6  anchovies. 

A  teacupful  drawn  butter. 

A  wine-glass  pale  sherry. 

Soak  the  anchovies  in  cold  water  two  hours ;  pull  them 
to  pieces,  and  simmer  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them 
for  half  an  hour.  Strain  the  liquor  into  the  drawn  butter 
(No.  3),  boil  a  minute,  add  the  wine ;  heat  gradually  to  a 
boil,  and  stew  five  minutes  longer. 

Serve  with  boiled  fish. 

Sauce  fob  Lobstebs. 

5  tablespoonfuls  fresh  butter. 

Teacupful  vinegar. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  with  a  heaping  tea 

spoonful  white  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 
Minced  parsley. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  adding  gradually  the  vine- 
gar, salt,  and  pepper.  Boil  a  bunch  of  parsley  five  minutes, 
chop  small;  beat  into  the  butter;  lastly  the  sugar  and 
mustard.     The  butter  must  be  light  as  whipped  egg. 


188  COMMON   SENSE. 

Bread  Sauce. 

1  pint  milk. 

1  cup  bread-crumbs  (very  fine). 

1  onion,  sliced. 

A  pinch  of  mace. 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

Simmer  tbe  sliced  onion  in  the  milk  until  tender ;  strain 
the  milk  and  pour  over  the  bread-crumbs,  which  should  be 
put  into  a  saucepan.  Cover  and  soak  half  an  hour ;  beat 
smooth  with  an  egg-whip,  add  the  seasoning  and  butter ; 
stir  in  well,  boil  up  once,  and  serve  in  a  tureen.  If  it  is 
too  thick,  add  boiling  water  and  more  butter. 

This  sauce  is  for  roast  poultry.  Some  people  add  some 
of  the  gravy  from  the  dripping-pan,  first  straining  it  and 
beating  it  well  in  with  the  sauce. 

White  Celery  Sauce. 

2  large  heads  of  celery. 

1  teacupful  of  broth  in  which  the  fowl  is  boiled. 

1         ^^         ci*eam  or  milk. 

Salt  and  nutmeg. 

Heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  and  same  of  butter. 

Boil  the  celery  tender  in  salted  water ;  drain,  and  cut 
into  bits  half  an  inch  long.  Thicken  the  gravy  from  the 
fowl — a  teacupful — with  the  flour ;  add  the  butter,  salt,  and 
nutmeg,  then  the  milk.  Stir  and  beat  until  it  is  smooth ; 
put  in  the  celery ;  heat  almost  to  boiling,  stirring  all  tho 
while ;  serve  in  a  tureen,  or,  if  you  prefer,  pour  it  over  the 
boiled  meat  or  fowls. 


SAUCES  FOS.  MEAT  AND  FISH.  189 

Onion  Sauce. 

4  white  onions. 
1  teacupful  hot  milk. 
3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Peel  the  onions,  boil  tender,  press  the  water  from 
them,  and  mince  fine.  Have  ready  the  hot  milk  in  a  sauce- 
pan ;  stir  in  the  onions,  then  the  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Boil  up  once. 

If  you  want  to  have  it  particularly  good,  make  nice 
melted  or  drawn  butter  (No.  3) ;  beat  the  mashed  onion 
into  it;  add  a  teacupful  of  cream  or  new  milk;  season, 
boil  up,  and  serve. 

MaItre  d'H6tel  Sauce.  >j^ 

1  teacupful  drawn  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  minced  parsley. 
1  lemon. 
Cayenne  and  salt  to  taste. 

Draw  the  butter  (No.  2) ;  boil  the  parsley  three  min- 
utes ;  take  it  out  and  lay  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  to 
cool ;  chop  and  stir  into  the  butter ;  squeeze  in  the  lemon- 
juice,  the  pepper  and  salt;  beat  hard  with  an  egg-whip, 
return  to  the  fire,  and  boil  up  once. 

This  is  a  *' stock '^  sauce,  being  suitable  for  so  many 
dishes,  roast  or  boiled. 

Mint  Sauce  for  Roast  Lamb. 

2  tablespoonfuls  green  mint,  chopped  fine. 
1  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar. 
Half  a  teacupful  cider  vinegar. 


190  COMMON  SENSE. 

Chop  the  mint,  put  the  sugar  and  vinegar  in  a  sauoe- 
boat,  and  stir  in  the  mint.  Let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place 
fifteen  minutes  before  sending  to  table. 

MusHBOOM  Sauce. 

1  teacupful  yoimg  mushrooms. 

4  tablespponfuls  butter. 

1  teacupful  cream  or  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  flour. 

Nutmeg,  mace,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Stew  the  mushrooms  in  barely  enough  water  to  cover 
them  until  tender.  Drain,  but  do  not  press  them,  and  add 
the  cream,  butter,  and  seasonuig.  Stew  over  a  bright  fire, 
stirring  all  the  while  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Add  the 
flour  wet  in  cold  milk,  boil  up  and  serve  in  a  boat,  or  pour 
over  boiled  chickens,  rabbits,  etc. 

Caulifloweb  Sauce 

1  small  cauliflower. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter,  cut  in  bits,  and  rolled  in 

flour. 
1  onion. 

1  small  head  of  celery. 
Mace,  pepper,  and  salt. 
1  teacupful  water. 
1  teacupful  milk  or  cream. 

Boil  the  cauliflower  in  two  waters,  changing  when  about 
half  done,  and  throwing  away  the  first,  reserve  a  teacupful 
of  the  last.  Take  out  the  cauliflower,  drain  and  mince. 
Cook  in  another  saucepan  the  onion  and  celery,  mincing 
them  when  tender.  Heat  the  reserved  cupful  of  water 
again  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  milk ;  when  warm  put  in  the 


SAUCES  FOB  MEAT  AND  FISH.  191 

cauliflower  and  onion,  the  butter  and  seasoning — coating 

the  butter  thickly  with  flour ;  boil  until  it  thickens. 

This  is  a  delicious  sauce  for  boiled  corned  beef  and 

mutton. 

Asparagus  Sauce. 

A  dozen  heads  of  asparagus. 
2  teacupfuls  drawn  butter. 
2  eggs. 

The  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Salt  and  white  pepper. 

Boil  the  tender  heads  in  a  very  little  salted  water. 
Drain  and  chop  them.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  drawn  but* 
ter,  with  two  raw  eggs  beaten  into  it ;  add  the  asparagus, 
and  season,  squeezing  in  the  lemon-juice  last.  The  butter 
must  be  hot,  but  do  not  cook  after  putting  in  the  asparagus 
heads.  This  accompanies  boiled  fowls,  stewed  flllet  of  veal, 
or  boiled  mutton. 

Apple  Sauce. 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  some  ripe  tart  apples,  stew  in  water 
enough  to  cover  them  until  they  break  to  pieces.  Beat  up 
to  a  smooth  pulp,  stir  in  a  good  lump  of  butter,  and  sugar 
to  taste. 

Apple  sauce  is  the  invariable  accompaniment  of  roast 
pork — or  fresh  pork  cooked  in  any  way.  If  you  wish,  you 
can  add  a  little  nutmeg. 

Peach  Sauce. 

Soak  a  quart  of  dried  peaches  in  water  fotir  hours. 
Wash  them,  rubbing  them  against  one  another  by  stirring 
around  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Drain,  and  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Stew  until 
they  break  to  pieces.  Rub  to  a  soft  smooth  pulp,  sweeten 
to  taste  with  white  sugar.  Send  to  table  cold,  with  roast 
game  or  other  meats. 


192  (X>KMON  SENSE. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 

Wash  and  pick  a  quart  of  ripe  cranberries,  and  put  into 
a  saucepan  with  a  t«acupful  of  water.  Stew  slowly,  stir- 
ring often  until  they  are  thick  as  marmalade.  They  require 
at  least  an  hour  and  a  half  to  cook.  When  you  take  them 
from  the  fire,  sweeten  abundantly  with  white  sugar.  If 
sweetened  while  cooking,  the  color  will  be  bad.  Put  them 
into  a  mould  and  set  aside  to  get  cold. 

And  this  is  a  nicer  plan — strain  the  pulp  through  a  cul- 
lender or  sieve,  or  coarse  mosquito-net,  into  a  mould  wet 
with  cold  water.  When  firm,  turn  into  a  glass  dish  or  sal- 
ver.    Be  sure  that  it  is  sweet  enough. 

Eat  with  roast  turkey,  game,  and  roast  ducks. 

To  Brown  Flour. 

Spread  upon  a  tin  plate,  set  upon  the  stove,  or  m  a  very 
hot  oven,  and  stir  continually  after  it  begins  to  color,  until 
it  is  brown  all  through. 

Keep  it  always  on  hand.  Make  it  at  odd  minutes,  and 
put  away  in  a  glass  jar,  covered  closely.  Shake  up  every 
few  days  to  keep  it  light  and  prevent  lumping. 

To  Brown  Butter. 

Put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  hot  frying-pan,  and  toss  it 
around  over  a  clear  fire  until  it  browns.  Dredge  browned 
flour  over  it,  and  stir  to  a  smooth  batter  until  it  begins  to 
boil.  Use  it  for  coloring  gravies,  such  as  brown  fricassees, 
etc. ;  or  make  into  sauce  for  baked  fish  and  fish-steaks,  by 
beating,  in  celery  or  onion  vinegar,  Kvery  little  brown  sugar 
and  some  cayenne. 


CATSUPS  AND  FLAVOEED  VINEGAES.  193 

CATSUPS  AND  FLAVORED  VINEGARS. 

Made  Mustard.  4^ 

4  tablespoonfuls  best  English  mustard. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

2  "  white  sugar. 

1  "  white  pepper. 

2  «  salad  oil. 

Vinegar  to  mix  to  a  smooth  paste— -celery  or  Tarragon 

vinegar  if  you  have  it. 
1  small  garlic,  minced  very  small. 

Put  the  mustard  in  a  bowl  and  wet  with  the  oil,  rub- 
bing it  in  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon  until  it  is  absorbed. 
Wet  with  vinegar  to  a  stiff  paste ;  add  salt,  pepper,  sugar, 
and  garlic,  and  work  all  together  thoroughly,  wetting  little 
by  little  with  the  vinegar  until  you  can  beat  it  as  you  do 
cake-batter.  Beat  five  minutes  very  hard ;  put  into  wide- 
mouthed  bottles — empty  French  mustard  bottles,  if  you 
have  them — ^pour  a  little  oil  on  top,  cork  tightly,  and  set 
away  in  a  cool  place.  It  will  be  mellow  enough  for  use  in 
a  couple  of  days. 

Having  used  this  mustard  for  years  in  my  own  family, 
I  can  safely  advise  my  friends  to  undertake  tl^e  trifiing  labor 
of  preparing  it  in  consideration  of  the  satisfaction  to  be  de- 
rived from  the  condiment.  I  mix  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar, 
with  pestle  of  the  same ;  but  a  bowl  is  nearly  as  good.  It 
will  keep  for  weeks. 

Horse-radish. 

Scrape  or  grind,  cover  with  vinegar,  and  keep  in  wide- 
mouthed  bottles.     To  eat  with  roast  beef  and  cold  meats. 

9 


194  COMMON   SENSE. 

Walnut  Catsup. 

Choose  young  walnuts  tender  enough  to  bo  pierced  with 
a  pin  or  needle.  Prick  them  in  severai  places,  and  lay  in  a 
jar  witli  a  handful  of  salt  to  every  twenty-five,  and  water 
enough  to  cover  them.  Break  them  with  a  billet  of  wood 
or  wooden  beetle,  and  let  them  lie  in  the  pickle  a  fortnight, 
stiiTing  twice  a  day.  Drain  off  the  liquor  into  a  saucepan, 
and  cover  the  shells  with  boiling  vinegar  to  extract  what 
juice  remains  in  them.  Crush  to  a  pulp  and  strain  through 
a  cullender  into  the  saucepan.  Allow  for  every  quart  an 
ounce  of  black  pepper  and  one  of  ginger,  half  an  oimce  of 
cloves  and  half  an  ounce  of  nutmeg,  beaten  fine.  Put  in  a 
pinch  of  cayenne,  a  shallot  minced  fine  for  every  ttoo  quarts, 
and  a  thimbleful  of  celery-seed  tied  in  a  bag  for  the  same 
quantity.  Boil  all  together  for  an  hour,  if  there  be  a  gal- 
lon of  the  mixture.  Bottle  when  cold,  putting  an  equal 
quantity  of  the  spice  in  each  flask.  Butternuts  make  de- 
lightful catsup. 

Mushroom  Catsup. 

2  quarts  of  mushrooms. 
J  lb.  of  salt. 

Lay  in  an  earthenware  pan,  in  alternate  layers  of  mush- 
rooms and  salt;  let  them  lie  six  hours,  then  break  into  bits. 
Set  in  a  cool  place  three  days,  stirring  thoroughly  every 
morning.  Measure  the  juice  when  you  have  strained  it, 
and  to  every  quart  allow  half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  tlie  same 
quantity  of  ginger,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  mace,  a 
teaspoonfid  of  cayenne.  Put  into  a  stone  jar,  cover  closely, 
set  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire,  and  boil 
five  hours  Jiard,  Take  it  off,  empty  into  a  porcelain  ket- 
tle, and  boil  slowly  half  an  hour  longer.  Let  it  stand  all 
night  in  a  cool  place,  until  settled  and  clear.     Pour  off 


CATSUPS  AND  FLAVOBED  YINEGAES.  195 

carefully  from  the  sediment,  and  bottle,  filling  the  flasks  to 
the  mouth.  Dip  the  corks  in  melted  rosin,  and  tie  up  with 
bladders. 

The  bottles  should  be  very  small,  as  it  soon  spoils  when 
exposed  to  the  air. 

Imitation  Worcestershire  Sauce. 

3  teaspoonfuls  cayenne  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  walnut  or  tomato  catsup  (strained 
through  muslin). 

3  shallots  minced  fine. 

3  anchovies  chopped  into  bits. 

1  quart  of  vinegar. 

Half-teaspoonful  powdered  cloves. 
Mix  and  rub  through  a  sieve.     Put  in  a  stone  jar,  set 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  heat  until  the  liqidd  is  so  hot 
you  cannot  bear  your  finger  in  it.     Strain,  and  let  it  stand 
in  the  jar,  closely  covered,  two  days,  then  bottle  for  use. 

Oyster  Catsup. 

1  quart  oysters. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper,  and  same  of  mace. 

1  teacupful  cider  vinegar. 

1        "  sherry. 

Chop  the  oysters  and  boil  in  their  own  liquor  with  a 
teacupful  vinegar,  skimming  the  scum  as  it  rises.  Boil 
three  minutes,  strain  through  a  hair-cloth ;  return  the 
liquor  to  the  fire,  add  the  wine,  pepper,  salt,  and  mace. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes,  and,  when  cold,  bottle  for  use,  sealing 
the  corks. 


196  COMMON  SENSE. 

Tomato  Catsup.  4* 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes. 
1  ounce  salt. 
1      "      mace. 

1  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  cayemie. 
1  tablespoonful  cloves  (powdered). 
7  "  ground  mustard. 

1  ^^  celery  seed  (tied  in  a  thin  muslin 

bag). 

Cut  a  slit  in  the  tomatoes,  put  into  a  bell-metal  or  por- 
celain kettle,  and  boil  until  the  juice  is  all  extracted  and 
the  pulp  dissolved.  Strain  and  press  through  a  cullender, 
then  through  a  hair  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire,  add  the  sea- 
soning, and  boil  at  least  five  hours,  stirring  constantly  for 
the  last  hour,  and  frequently  throughout  the  time  it  is  on 
the  fire.  Let  it  stand  twelve  hours  in  a  stone  jar  on  the  . 
cellar  floor.  When  cold,  add  a  pint  of  strong  vinegar. 
Take  out  the  bag  of  celery  seed,  and  bottle,  sealing  the 
corks.     Keep  in  a  dark,  cool  place. 

Tomato  and  walnut  are  the  most  useful  catsups  we  have 
for  general  purposes,  and  either  is  in  itself  a  fine  sauce  for 
roast  meat,  cold  fowl,  game,  etc. 

Lemon  Catsup. 

12  large,  fresh  lemons. 
4  tablespoonfuls  white  mustard-seed. 
1  "  turmeric. 

1  "  white  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
1  **        mace. 

1  saltspoonful  cayenne. 


CATSUPS  AND  FLAVOBED  VINEGAKS.  197 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

2  '^  grated  horse-i'adish. 

1  shallot,  minced  fine. 
Juice  of  the  lemons. 

2  tablespoonfuls  table-salt. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  lemons;  poimd  or  grind  the 
spices,  and  put  all  together,  including  the  horse-radish. 
Strew  the  salt  oyer  all,  add  the  lemon-juice,  and  let  it 
stand  three  hours  in  a  cool  place.  Boil  in  a  porcelain  ket- 
tle half  an  hour.  Pour  into  a  covered  vessel — china  or 
stone — and  let  it  stand  a  fortnight,  stirring  well  everj  day. 
Then  strain,  bottle,  and  seal. 

It  is  a  fine  seasoning  for  fish  sauces,  fish  soups,  and 
game  ragouts. 

"  Ever-ready  ^  Catsup.  4* 

2  quarts  cider  vinegar. 

12  anchovies,  washed,  soaked,  and  pidled  to  pieces. 
12  small  onions,  peeled  and  minced. 
1  tablespoonful  mace. 

3  «  fine  salt. 

3  "  white  sugar. 

1  "  cloves. 

3  "  whole  black  pepper. 

2  *'  ground  ginger. 
1             "  cayenne. 

1  quart  mushrooms,  minced,  or 
1      "      ripe  tomatoes,  sliced. 

Put  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  boil  slowly  four  hours, 
or  until  the  mixture  is  reduced  to  one-half  the  original  quan- 
tity. Strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Do  not  bottle  until 
next  day.  Fill  the  flasks  to  the  top,  and  dip  the  corks  in 
beeswax  and  rosin. 


198  COMKOK   8SN8S. 

lliis  catsup  will  keep  for  years.  Mixed  with  drawn 
butter,  it  is  used  as  a  sauce  for  boiled  fish,  but  is  a  fine 
flayoriug  essence  of  gravies  of  almost  any  kind. 

A  Good  Store  Sauce. 

2  tablespoonfuls  horse-radish  (grated). 

1  '^  allspice. 
A  grated  nutmeg. 

3  large  pickled  onions  (minced  fine). 

2  dozen  whole  black  peppers. 
A  pinch  of  cayenne. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  "  white  sugar. 

1  qiiai*t  vinegar  from  walnut  or  butternut  pickle. 

Mix  all  the  spices  well  together ;  crush  in  a  stone  jar 
with  a  potato-beetle  or  billet  of  wood ;  pour  over  the  vine- 
gar, and  let  it  stand  two  weeks.  Put  on  in  a  porcelain  or 
clean  bell-metal  kettle  and  heat  to  boiling ;  strain  and  set 
aside  until  next  day  to  cool  and  settle.  Bottle  and  cork 
very  tightly.  It  is  an  excellent  seasoning  for  any  kind  of 
gravy,  sauce,  or  stew. 

Mock  Capers.  4^ 

Gather  green  nasturtium  seed  when  they  are  full-grown, 
but  not  yellow ;  dry  for  a  day  in  the  sun ;  put  into  small 
jars  or  wide-mouthed  bottles,  cover  with  boiling  vinegar, 
slightly  spiced,  and  when  cool,  cork  closely.  In  six  weeks 
they  will  be  fit  for  use.  They  give  an  agreeable  taste  to 
drawn  butter  for  fish,  or  boiled  beef  and  mutton 

Celery  Vinegar. 

A  bunch  of  fresh  celery,  or 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  celery  seed. 


CATSUPS  AND   FLAVOREJ)   VINEGAKS.  199 

1  quart  of  best  vinegar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  white  sugai*. 

Cut  up  the  celery  into  small  bits,  or  pour  the  seed  into 
a  jar ;  scald  the  salt  and  vinegar,  and  pour  over  the  celery 
stalks  or  seed*;  let  it  cool,  and  put  away  in  one  large  jai* 
tightly  corked.  In  a  fortnight  strain  and  bottle  in  small 
flasks,  corking  tightly. 

Onion  Vinegak. 

6  large  onions. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1       "  "      white  sugar. 

1  quart  best  vinegar. 

Mince  the  onions,  strew  on  the  salt,  and  let  them  stand 
Ave  or  six  hours.  Scald  the  vinegar  in  which  the  sugar 
has  been  dissolved,  pour  over  the  onions ;  put  in.  a  jar,  tie 
down  the  cover,  and  steep  a  fortnight.     Strain  and  bottle. 

Elderberry  Catsup. 

1  quart  of  elderberiies. 

1  *'    -of  vinegar. 

6  anchovies,  soaked  and  pulled  to  pieces. 
Half  a  teaspoonful  mace. 
A  pinch  of  ginger. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  whole  peppers. 

Scald  the  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  berries,  which 
must  be  picked  from  the  stalks  and  put  into  a  large  stone 
jar.  Cover  with  a  pane  of  glass,  and  set  in  the  hot  sun 
two  days.      Strain  off  the  liquor,  and  boil  up  with  the 


200  COMMON   BENB£. 

other  ingredients,  stirring  often,  one  hour,  keeping  covered 
unless  while  stirring.     Let  it  cool ;  strain  and  bottle. 

This  is  used  for  flavoring  brown  gravies,  soups,  and 
ragotlts,  and,  stirred  into  browned  butter,  makes  a  good 
piquant  sauce  for  broiled  or  baked  fish. 

Peppee  Vinegar. 

6  pods  red  peppers  broken  up. 
3  dozen  black  pepper-corns. 
2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 
1  quart  of  best  vinegar. 

Scald  the  vinegar  in  which  the  sugar  has  been  dis- 
solved ;  pour  over  the  pepper,  put  into  a  jar,  and  steep  a 
fortnight.     Stiuin  and  bottle. 

This  is  eaten  with  boiled  fish  and  raw  ojsters,  and  is 
useful  in  the  preparation  of  salads. 

Horse-radish  Vinegar. 

6  tablespoonfuls  scraped  or  grated  horse-radish. 
1  tablespoonful  white  sugai*. 
1  quari  vinegar. 

Scald  the  vinegar;  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  horse- 
radish.    Steep  a  week,  strain  and  bottle. 

SALADS. 

"  The  dressing  of  the  salad  should  be  saturated  with 
oil,  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt  before  the  vinegar 
is  added.  It  results  from  this  process  that  there  never  can 
be  too  much  vinegar ;  for,  from  the  specific  gravity  of  the 
vinegar  compared  with  oil,  what  is  more  than  useful  will 
fjEdl  to  the  bottom  of  the  bowl.  The  salt  should  not  be 
dissolved  in  the  vinegar,  but  in  the  oil,  by  which  means  it 


SALAse.  201 

is  more  equally  distributed  throughout  the  salad.'' —  Clutp- 
tal,  a  French  chemisL 

The  Spanish  proverb  says,  that  ''to  make  a  perfect 
salad,  there  should  be  a  miser  for  oil,  a  spendthrift  for 
vinegar,  a  wise  man  for  salt,  and  a  madcap  to  stir  the  in- 
gredients up  and  mix  them  well  together." 

Sydney  Smith's  Keceipt  for  Salad  Dressing. 

Two  boiled  potatoes,  strained  through  a  kitchen 

sieve. 
Softness  and  smoothness  to  the  salad  give ; 
Of  mordant  mustard  take  a  single  spoon — 
Distrust  the  condiment  that  bites  too  soon  ; 
Yet  deem  it  not,  thou  man  of  taste,  a  fault. 
To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt. 
Four  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  Lucca  crown. 
And  twice  with  vinegar  procured  from  town ; 
True  taste  requires  it,  and  your  poet  begs 
The  pounded  yellow  of  two  well-boiled  eggs. 
Let  onions'  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl, 
And,  scarce  suspected,  animate  the  whole ; 
And  lastly,  in  the  flavored  compound  toss 
A  magic  spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce. 
Oh,  great  and  glorious !  oh,  herbaceous  meat ! 
'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat. 
Back  to  the  world  he'd. turn  his  weary  soul. 
And  plunge  his  fingers  in  the  salad  bowl. 

At  least  twenty-five  years  ago  I  pasted  tlie  above  dog* 
gerel  in  my  scrap-book,  and  committed  it  to  memory.  The 
first  salad  I  was  ever  trusted  to  compound  was  dressed  in 
strict  obedience  to  the  directions  of  the  witty  divine,  and 
to  this  day  these  seem  to  me  pertinent  and  worthy  of  note. 
The  anchovy  sauce  can  be  omitted  if  you  like,  and  a  spoon- 

9* 


202  COMMON  8ENBE. 

ful  of  Harvey's  or  Worcestersliire  substituted.     Tbis  U 
best  suited  for  chicken  or  turkey  salad. 

Lobster  Salad.  4^ 

Pick  out  every  bit  of  the  meat  from  the  body  and  claws 
of  a  cold  boiled  lobster.  Lay  aside  the  coral  for  the  dress- 
ing, and  mince  the  rest.     For  the  dressing  you  will  need — 

4  eggs,  boiled  hard. 

2  tablespoon^ils  salad  oil. 

1  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 

1  «*  salt. 

2  "  white  sugar. 

^  "  cayenne  pepper.      Vinegar  at  discretion, 

1  **  of  Harvey's,  Worcestershire,  or  anchovy 

sauce. 

Kub  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a  mortar  or  bowl, 
with  a  Wedgewood  pestle,  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon,  until 
perfectly  free  from  lumps.  Add  gradually,  rubbing  all  the 
while,  the  other  ingredients,  the  coral  last.  This  should 
have  been  worked  well  upon  a  plate  with  a  silver  knife  or 
wooden  spatula.  Proceed  slowly  and  carefully  in  the  opera- 
tion of  amalgamating  the  various  ingredients,  moistening 
with  vinegar  as  they  stiflfen.  Increase  the  quantity  of  this 
as  the  mixture  grows  smooth,  until  it  is  thin  enough  to 
pour  over  the  minced  lobster.  You  will  need  a  teacupful 
at  least.  Then  stir  long  and  well,  that  the  meat  may  be 
thoroughly  impregnated  with  the  dressing.  Some  mix 
chopped  lettuce  with  the  salad ;  but  unless  it  is  to  be  eaten 
within  a  few  minutes,  the  vin^^  will  wither  the  tender 
leaves.  The  better  plan  is  to  heap  a  glass  dish  with  the 
inner  leaves  of  several  lettuce-heads,  laying  pounded  ice 
among  them,  and  pass  with  the  lobster,  th^t  the  guests  may 
add  the  green  salad  to  their  taste. 


4 


SALADS.  203 

When  lettuce  is  out  of  season,  the  following  dressing, 
the  receipt  for  which  was  given  me  by  a  French  gourmand, 
may  be  used. 

Prepare  the  egg  and  coral  as  above,  with  the  condiments 
there  mentioned,  but  mix  with  the  lobster-meat  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  fine  white  cabbage,  chopped  small,  with  two 
small  onions,  also  minced  into  almost  indivisible  bits,  a 
teaspoonful  of  anchovy  or  other  sauce,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  celery  vinegar. 

All  lobster  salad  should  be  eaten  as  soon  as  possible 
after  the  dressing  is  added,  else  it  becomes  imwholesome. 
If  you  use  canned  lobster,  open  and  turn  out  the  contents 
of  the  can  into  a  china  dish  several  hours  before  you  mix 
the  dressing,  that  the  close,  airless  smell  may  pass  away. 

Garnish  the  edges  of  the  dish  with  cool  white  leaves  of 
curled  lettuce,  or  with  a  chain  of  rings  made  of  the  whites 
of  the  boiled  eggs. 

Chicken  Salad.  4^ 

The  white  meat  of  a  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken 

(or  turkey). 
Three-quarters  the  same  bulk  of  chopped  celery. 
2  hard-boiled  eggs. 
1  raw  egg,  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  "  pepper. 

1  ^^  made  mustard. 
3^          ''          salad  oil. 

2  ^^  white  sugar. 
^  teacupf ul  of  vinegar. 

Mince  the  meat  well,  removing  every  scrap  of  fat,  gris- 
tle, and  skin ;  cut  the  celery  into  bits  half  an  inch  long,  or 
less,  mix  them,  and  set  aside  in  a  cold  place  while  you  pre- 
pare the  dressing. 


204  COMMON   SENSE. 

Kub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  fine  powder,  add  the  salt, 
pepper,  and  sugar,  then  the  oil,  grinding  hard,  and  putting  in 
but  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  The  mustard  comes  next,  and  let 
all  stand  together  while  you  whip  the  raw  egg  to  a  froth. 
Beat  this  into  the  dressing,  and  pour  in  the  vinegar  spoon- 
ful by  spoonful,  whipping  the  dressing  well  as  you  do  it. 
Sprinkle  a  little  dry  salt  over  the  meat  and  celery ;  toss  it 
up  lightly  with  a  silver  fork ;  pour  the  dressing  over  it, 
tossing  and  mixing  until  the  bottom  of  the  mass  is  as  well 
saturated  as  the  top ;  turn  into  the  salaid-bowl,  and  gamisli 
with  white  of  eggs  (boiled)  cut  into  rings  or  flowers,  and 
sprigs  of  bleached  celery-tops. 

If  you  cannot  get  celery,  substitute  crisp  white  cabbage, 
and  use  celery  vinegar  in  the  dressing.  You  can  also,  in 
this  case,  chop 'some  green  pickles,  gherkins,  mangoes,  or 
cucumbers,  and  stir  in. 

Turkey  makes  even  better  salad  than  chicken. 

You  can  make  soup  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  fowl  is 
cooked,  since  it  need  not  bo  boiled  in  a  cloth. 

Lettuce  Salad.  4* 

Two  or  three  heads  white  lettuce. 

2  hard-boiled  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salad  oil. 

i  «  salt. 

1  "  white  sugar. 

^  '^  made  mustard. 

1  "  pepper. 

4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 

Rub  the  yolks  to  a  powder,  add  sugar,  pepper,  salt, 
mustard,  and  oil.  Let  it  stand  five  minutes,  and  beat  in  the 
vinegar.  Cut  the  lettuce  up  with  a  knife  and  fork, — a 
chopper  would  bruise  it, — put  into  a  bowl,  add  the  dressing, 
and  mix  by  tossing  with  a  silver  fork. 


BALADB.  205 

Or, 

You  can  dress  on  the  table  with  oil  and  vinegar  only, 
pulling  the  heart  of  the  lettuce  out  with  your  fingers,  and 
seasoning  to  taste. 

Summer  Salad. 

3  heads  of  lettuce. 

2  teaspoonfuls  green  mustard  leaves. 
A  handful  of  water-ci'esses. 

Four  or  five  very  tender  radishes. 

1  cucumber. 

3  hard-boiled  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  "  pepper. 

1  ''  made  mustai'd. 

1  teacupful  vinegar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil. 

Mix  the  dressing  as  for  lettuce  salad.  Cut  up  the  hearts 
of  the  lettuce,  the  radishes  and  cucimiber,  into  very  small 
pieces ;  chop  the  mustard  and  cress.  Pour  over  these  the 
dressing,  tossing  very  lightly,  not  to  bruise  the  young  leaves ; 
heap  in  a  salad-bowl  upon  a  lump  of  ice,  and  garnish  with 
fennel-heads  and  nasturtium-blossoms. 

This  is  a  delightful  accompaniment  to  boiled  or  baked 
fish. 

WatertCresses. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  cresses  carefully,  pluck  from 
the  stems,  and  pile  in  the  salad  bowl,  with  a  dressing  of 
vinegar,  pepper,  salt,  and  sugar,  well  stirred  in. 


206  COMMON   SBN8E. 

Cabbage  Salad,  or  Cold  Slaw.  »{« 

1  head  of  fine  white  cabbage,  minoed  fine. 
3  hard-boiled  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil. 
2  teaspoonfiils  white  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  "  pepper. 

1  "  made  mustard. 

1  teacupful  vinegar. 

Mix  as  for  lettuce  and  pour  upon  the  chopped  cabbage. 

Shred  the  head  of  cabbage  fine,  and  di*ess  with — 
1  cup  vinegar. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sour  cream. 

A  pinch  of  pepper,  and  the  same  of  salt. 

Put  the  vinegar,  with  all  the  ingredients  for  the  dress- 
ing, except  the  cream,  in  a  saucepan,  and  let  them  come 
to  a  boil.  Pour  while  scalding  over  the  cabbage,  and 
set  away  until  perfectly  cold.  Add  the  cream  just  before 
serving,  stirring  in  with  a  silver  fork. 

This  is  a  veiy  nice  preparation  of  cabbage,  and  &r  more 
wholesome  than  the  uncooked.     Try  it  1 

Tomato  Qalad.  tj^ 

12  medium-sized  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced. 

4  hard-boiled  eggs. 

1  raw  egg,  well  beaten. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

^  spoonful  cayenne  pepper. 


SALADS.  207 

1  teaspoonful  white  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  salad  oil. 

2  teaspoonfuls  made  mustard. 

1  teacupful  vinegar. 

Kub  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  paste^  adding  by  degrees  the 
salt,  pGPP^i^>  sugnr,  mustard,  and  oil.  Beat  the  raw  egg  to 
a  froth  and  stir  in, — lastly  the  vinegar.  Peel  the  tomatoes, 
slice  them  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  set  the  dish  on 
ice,  while  you  are  making  ready  the  dressing.  Stir  a  great 
lump  of  ice  rapidly  in  this — ^the  dressing — until  it  is  cold ; 
take  it  out,  cover  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixtiure,  and  set 
back  on  the  ice  until  you  send  to  table. 

This  salad  is  delicious,  especially  when  ice-cold. 

Celeky  Salad.  4* 

boiled  egg. 
raw  egg. 

tablespoonful  salad  oil. 
teaspoonful  white  sugar, 
saltspoonful  salt. 

**  pepper, 

tablespoonfuls  vinegar, 
teaspoonful  made  mustard. 

Prepare  the  dressing  as  for  tomato  salad ;  cut  the  celery 
into  bits  half  an  inch  long,  and  season.  Eat  at  once,  before 
the  vinegar  injures  the  crispness  of  the  vegetable. 

Salmon  Salad.  4* 

1|  lb.  cold  boiled  or  baked  salmon. 

2  beads  white  lettuce  (or  celery). 

3  hard-boiled  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil. 


208  COMMOir   8£NS£. 

1  teaspoonf 111  salt,  and  same  of  cayenne. 

i  "  white  sugar. 

1  "  WoroestershiriB  or  anchovy  sauce. 

1  '^  made  mustard. 

1  teacupful  vinegar. 

Mince  three-quarters  of  the  salmon,  laying  aside  four  or 
Qve  pieces  half  an  inch  wide  and  four  or  five  long;  cut 
smoothly  and  of  uniform  size.  Prepare  the  dressing  in  the 
usual  way,  and  pour  over  the  minced  fish.  Shred  the  let- 
tuce, handling  as  little  as  possible,  and  heap  in  a  separate 
bowl,  with  pounded  ice.  This  must  accompany  the  salmon, 
that  the  guests  may  help  themselves  to  their  liking.  Or. 
you  may  mix  the  lettuce  with  the  fish,  if  it  is  to  be  eaten 
immediately.  Celery,  of  course,  is  always  stirred  into  the 
salad,  when  it  is  used.  The  reserved  pieces  of  salmon 
should  be  laid  in  the  dressing  for  ^ye  minutes  befoi'e 
the  latter  is  added  to  the  minced  fish,  then  dipped  in 
vinegar.  "When  you  have  transferred  your  salad  (or  ma- 
yonnaise) to  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  round  it 
into  a  mound,  and  lay  the  strips  upon  it  in  such  a  manner 
as  to  divide  it  into  triangular  sections,  the  bars  all  meeting 
at  the  top  and  diverging  at  the  base.  Between  these  have 
subdivisions  of  chain-work  made  of  the  whites  of  the  boiled 
eggs,  each  circle  overlapping  that  next  to  it. 

You  can  dress  halibut  in  the  same  way. 

Cheese,  Salad,  or  Mock  Ciiab. 

1^  lb.  pickled  shrimps. 

}  lb.  good  old  cheese. 

1  tablespoonful  salad  oil. 

1  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 

1  «  salt. 

1  "  white  sugar. 


\ 


BALADB.  209 

1  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 

4  tablespoonfuls  celery  or  onion  vinegar. 

Mince  tlie  shrimps  and  gi*ate  tlie  cheese.  Work  into 
the  latter,  a  little  at  a  time^  the  various  condiments  enu- 
merated above,  the  vinegar  last.  Let  all  stand  together  ten 
minutes  before  adding  the  shrimps.  When  this  is  done, 
stir  well  for  a  minute  and  a  half  and  serve  in  a  glass  dish, 
gamifihed  with  lemon,  or  (if  you  can  get  one)  in  a  clean 
crab-shell. 

^  lb.  old  cheese,  grated. 
•  1  hard-boiled  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  cayenne. 

1  ''  salt. 

1  **  white  sugar. 

1  ^'  made  mustard. 

1  tablespoonful  onion  vinegar. 

1  ^'  salad  oil. 

Kub  the  yolk  of  .the  egg  to  a  paste  with  the  oil,  adding 
in  order  the  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  mustard,  lastly  the 
cheese.  Work  all  well  together  before  putting  in  the 
vinegar.     Serve  in  a  crab-shell. 

These  mixtures  bear  a  marvellous  resemblance  in  taste 
to  devilled  crab,  and  make  a  good  impromptu  relish  at  tea 
or  luncheon.  Eat  with  crackers  and  butter.  This  is  still 
better  if  you  add  a  cupful  of  cold  minced  chicken. 

Use  none  but  the  best  and  freshest  olive  salad  oil  {not 
sweet  oil,  felsely  so  called)  in  compounding  your  salad- 
dressing.  If  you  cannot  obtain  this,  melted  butter  is  the 
best  substitute  I  know  of. 


210  COMMON   8SNS£. 

VEGETABLES. 
BuLES  Applicable  to  the  Cooking  of  aix  Vegetables. 

1.  Have  them  as  fresh  as  possible.  Stale  and  withered 
ones  are  unwholesome  and  unpalatable.  Summer  vegeta- 
bles should  be  cooked  on  the  same  day  they  are  gathered^  if 
l>os8ible. 

2.  Pick  over  and  wash  well,  cutting  out  all  decayed  or 
unripe  pai'ts. 

3.  Lay  them,  when  peeled,  in  cold  water  for  some  time 
before  cooking. 

4.  If  you  boil  them,  put  a  little  salt  in  the  water. 

5.  Cook  them  steadily  after  you  put  them  on. 

6.  Be  sure  they  are  thoroughly  done.  Rare  vegetables 
are  neither  good  nor  fashionable. 

7.  Drain  well. 

8.  Serve  hot  I 

POTATOES. 

Boiled  Potatoes  {tuUh  iJie  skins  on). 

Boil  in  cold  water  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Have  them  of 
uniform  size,  and  cook  steadily  until  a  fork  will  pierce  easily 
to  the  heart  of  the  largest.  Then  pour  off  the  water,  every 
drop ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  set  back  on  the  range,  a  little 
to  one  side,  with  the  lid  of  the  pot  off.  Let  them  dry  thi*ee 
or  four  minutes;  peel  very  quickly  and  serve  in  an  un- 
covered dish. 

WitJiout  ihe  Skins, 

Pare  very  thin.  The  glory  of  a  potato  is  its  mealiness, 
and  much  of  the  starch,  or  meal,  lies  next  the  skin — conse- 
quently is  lost  by  slovenly  paring,  which  likewise  defaces 
the  shape.  Lay  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour,  have  ready 
a  pot  of  boiling  water  slightly  salted,  drop  in  the  potatoes, 


POTATOK8.  211 

and  keep  at  a  i^apid  boil  until  tender.     Drain  off  the  water, 
sprinkle  with  fine  salt,  and  dry  as  just  directed. 

And  here  comes  a  conflict  of  authorities.  Says  my  kind 
friend  and  neighbor,  Mrs.  A.,  an  excellent  housewife — **  I 
boil  my  potatoes  in  cold  water  always, — with  a  pinch  of 
salt,  of  course,  and  when  half  done,  throw  away  the  boiling 
water  and  All  up  with  cold,  then  boil  again.  This  makes 
the  potatoes  mealy."  Mrs.  B.,  whose  reputation  as  a  house- 
keeper and  cook  is  in  every  kitchen,  interposes : — "  I  have 
tried  both  ways.  My  experience  is  that  potatoes  melt  into 
a  sort  of  starchy  gruel  when  boiled  in  cold  water.  The 
philosophy  of  the  operation  is  to  heat  quickly  and  thor- 
oughly, and,  the  instant  they  are  done,  to  dry  out  every 
drop  of  water.  And — "  with  a  touch  of  pardonable  pride — 
**  we  generally  have  delightful  potatoes."  This  is  true,  but 
remembering  that  Mrs.  A.'s  are  like  snow  hillocks,  ready  to 
crumble  at  a  breath,  I  come  home  and  try  the  cold  water 
plan.  My  cook,  unlike  most  of  her  tribe,  is  too  sensible  to 
suppose  that  she  knows  everything,  and  willingly  abets  me. 
The  result  of  our  experiments  stands  somewhat  thus — Gar- 
net, White  Mountain,  and  Early  Rose  potatoes  are  apt  to 
dissolve  in  cold  water,  giving  off  their  starch  too  readily, 
perhaps.  We  boil  them  in  hot  water.  Peach  Blows,  Prince 
Alberts,  and  other  late  varieties  are  best  cooked  as  Mrs.  A. 
recommends — always  pouring  off  the  water  the  instant 
they  are  done  and  letting  the  potatoes  dry  for  a  few  minutes. 
My  housewifely  friends  can  decide  for  themselves  which 
method  is  preferable. 

Mashed  Potatoes.  4* 

Old  potatoes  are  best  mashed.  Pare,  and  let  them  lie 
in  cold  water  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  A 
longer  time  will  not  hurt  them.  Boil  in  hot  or  cold  water 
according  to  the  toughness  of  texture.      A  coarse,  waxy 


^   I 


212  CX>MMON   BENBE. 

potato  is  best  cooked  in  cold  water.  In  cither  case,  put  in 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Drain  thoroughly  when  done,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  and  mash  them  in  the  pot  with  a  potato-beetle, 
working  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  enough  milk  to 
make  the  paste  about  the  consistency  of  soft  dough.  Leave 
no  lumps  in  it,  and  when  smooth,  dish.  Form  into  a  mound 
with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  leave  dots  of  pepper  here  and 
there  on  the  surface,  as  large  as  a  half-dime. 

Or, 

Brown  by  setting  in  the  oven  until  a  crust  is  formed. 
Glaze  this  with  butter,  and  serve. 

To  Boil  New  Potatoes. 

If  very  young,  rub  the  skin  off  with  a  rough  towel.     If 

almost  ripe,  scrape  with  a  blunt  knife.     Lay  in  cold  water 

an  hour,  cover  with  cold  water  slightly  salted,  boil  half  an 

hour.     Drain,  salt,  and  dry  for  two  or  three  minutes.    Send 

to  table  plain. 

Or, 

You  may  crack  each  by  pressing  lightly  upon  it  with 
the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon,  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish,  and 
pour  over  them  a  cupful  of  cream  or  new  milk,  heated  to  a 
boil,  in  which  a  great  spoonful  of  butter  has  been  dissolved. 

To  Stew  Old  Potatoes,  p^ 

This  is  a  good  way  to  cook  potatoes  which  are  so  rank 
and  tough  as  hardly  to  be  eatable  in  any  other  form. 

Pare  and  quarter,  if  large.  Soak  in  cold  water  one 
hour.  Put  into  a  pot  with  enough  cold  salted  water  to 
cover  them.  When  almost  done,  turn  off  the  water,  add  a 
like  quantity  of  milk,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Before  taking 
up,  stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  a 


POTATOES.  213 

handful  of  chopped  parsley^  and  thicken  slightly  with  flour 
previously  wet  in  cold  milk.  Boil  one  minute,  and  pour  all 
into  a  deep  dish. 

Stewed  Potatoes  for  Breakfast.  4* 

Pare,  quarter,  and  soak  in  cold  water  half  an  hour. 
Stew  in  enough  cold  salted  water  to  cover  them.  Before 
taking  up,  and  when  they  are  breaking  to  pieces,  drain  oif 
half  the  water,  and  pour  in  a  cupful  of  milk.  Boil  three 
minutes,  stirring  well ;  put  in  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  a  little  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper ;  thicken  slightly 
wi-i^  flour,  boil  up  well  and  turn  into  a  covered  dish. 

This  is  an  excellent  family  dish.  Children  are  usually 
fond  of  it,  and  it  is  very  wholesome. 

Baked  Potatoes. 

Wash  and  wipe  some  large  ripe  potatoes,  and  bake  in  a 
jquick  oven  until  tender,  say  from  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
to  an  horn*,  if  of  a  good  size.  Serve  in  a  napkin  with  the 
skins  on.  Tear  or  cut  a  hole  in  the  top  when  you  eat  them, 
put  in  a  bit  of  butter  with  salt  and  pepper.  They  are  good 
for  boys'  cold  fingers  at  supper-time  on  winter  nights 

Potato  Puff.  »!• 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  cold  mashed  potato,  and  stir  into 
it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  beating  to  a  white 
cream  before  adding  anything  else.  Then  put  with  this 
two  eggs  whipped  very  light  and  a  teacupful  of  cream  or 
milk,  salting  to  taste.  Beat  all  well,  pour  into  a  deep  dish, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  it  is  nicely  browned.  If 
properly  mixed,  it  will  come  out  of  the  oven  light,  pully, 
and  delectable. 


214  COMMON  8RN6E. 

Potatoes  Warmed  Over — alias  au  Maitre  d^Hdtd, 

Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick 
and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk,  two  or  three  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  some  chopped 
parsley.  Heat  quickly,  stirring  all  the  time  until  ready  to 
boil,  when  stir  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  This  last  in- 
gredient entitles  the  dish  to  the  foreign  title.  Pour  into  a 
deep  dish,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Potato  Croquettes.  •!• 

Season  cold  mashed  potato  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nut- 
meg. Beat  to  a  cream,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  but- 
ter to  every  cupful  of  potato.  Bind  with  two  or  three 
beaten  eggs,  and  add  some  minced  parsley.  Roll  into  oval 
balls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread>crumbs,  and  fry  in 
hot  lard  or  drippings. 

Pile  in  a  pyramid  upon  a  flat  dish,  and  serve. 

Fried  Potatoes.  4« 

Pai'e,  wash,  and  slice  some  raw  potatoes  as  thin  as  wa- 
fers. This  can  be  done  with  a  sharp  knife,  although  there 
is  a  little  instrument  for  the  purpose,  to  be  had  at  the 
house-furnishing  stores,  which  flutes  prettily  as  well  as 
slices  evenly.  Lay  in  ice-water  for  half  an  hour,  wipe  dry 
in  two  cloths,  spreading  them  upon  one,  and  pressing  the 
other  upon  them.  Have  ready  in  the  frying-pan  some  boil- 
ing lard  or  nice  dripping,  fiy  a  light  brown,  sprinkle  with 
salt,  and  serve  in  a  napkin  laid  in  a  deep  dish  and  folded 
over  the  potatoes.  To  dry  them  of  the  fat,  take  from  the 
frying-pan  as  soon  as  they  are  brown,  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  put  into  a  cullender  and  shake  for  an  instant. 
They  should  be  crisp  and  free  from  grease. 


k. 


POTATOES.  215 

Or, 

'  Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  bits,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  fry  lightly  in  di-ipping  or  butter,  turning  them 
constantly  until  nicely  browned. 

Potato  Kibbon. 

Pai-e  and  lay  in  ice-water  for  an  hour.  Choose  the 
largest  and  soundest  potatoes  you  can  get  for  this  dish.  At 
the  end  of  the  hour,  pare,  with  a  small  knife,  round  and 
round  in  one  continuous  curling  strip.  There  is  also  an  in- 
strument for  this  purpose,  which  costs  but  a  trifle,  and  will 
do  the  work  deftly  and  expeditiously.  Handle  with  care, 
fiy — a  few  at  a  time,  for  fear  of  entanglement — ^in  lard  or 
clarified  drippings,  drain,  and  arrange  neatly  upon  a  hot 
flat  dish. 

Potatoes  A  la  Cr£:me.  4* 

Put  into  a  saucepan  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a 
small  handful  of  parsley  chopped  small,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Stir  up  well  until  hot,  add  a  small  teacupful  of  cream 
or  rich  milk,  thicken  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  and 
stir  until  it  boils.  Chop  some  cold  boiled  potatoes,  put  into 
the  mixture,  and  boil  up  once  before  serving. 

Stuffed  Potatoes.  4* 

Take  large,  fair  potatoes,  bake  until  soft,  and  cut  a 
round  piece  off  the  top  of  each.  Scrape  out  the  inside 
carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  the  skin,  and  set  aside  the 
empty  cases  with  the  covers.  Mash  the  inside  very 
smoothly,  working  into  it  while  hot  some  butter  and  cream 
— about  half  a  teaspoonful  of  each  for  every  potato.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  with  a  good  pinch  of  grated 
cheese  for  each ;  work  it  very  soft  with  milk,  and  put  into 


216  COMMON  SENBK. 

a  saucepan  to  heat,  stirring,  to  prevent  burning.  When 
scalding  hot,  stir  in  one  well-beaten  egg  for  six  large  pota- 
toes. Boil  up  once,  fill  the  skins  with  the  mixture,  repla- 
cing the  caps,  return  them  to  the  oven  for  three  minutes ; 
arrange  upon  a  napkin  in  a  deep  dish,  the  caps  uppermost ; 
cover  with  a  fold  of  the  napkin,  and  eat  hot. 

Or, 

You  may  omit  the  eggs  and  put  in  a  double  quantity  of 
cheese.     They  are  very  good. 

Potato  Scallops. 

Boil,  and  mash  the  potatoes  soft  with  a  little  milk. 
Beat  up  light  with  melted  butter — a  dessertspoonful  for 
every  half-pint  of  the  potato — salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Fill  some  patty-pans  or  buttered  scallop  shells  with  the  mix- 
ture, and  brown  in  an  oven,  when  you  have  stamped  a  pat- 
tern on  the  top  of  each.  Glaze,  while  hot,  with  butter,  and 
serve  in  the  shells. 

If  you  like,  you  can  strew  some  grated  cheese  over  the 
top. 

Browned  Potatoes — {WhoLe), 

Boil  and  peel  some  large,  ripe  potatoes,  and  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour  before  a  piece  of  roast  beef  is  removed  from 
the  fire,  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy;  put  the  potatoes  in 
the  dripping-pan,  having  dredged  them  well  with  flour. 
Baste  them,  to  prevent  scorching,  with  the  gravy,  and 
when  quite  brown,  drain  on  a  sieve.  Lay  them  about  the 
meat  in  the  dish. 

Browned  Potato — (Mashed), 

This  is  also  an  accompaniment  to  roast  beef  or  mutton. 
Maah  some  boiled  potatoes  smoothly  with  a  little  milk,  pep- 


i 


r 


POTATOES,  217 


^  per^  salt,  and  a  boiled  onion  (minced) ;  make  into  small 

f  cones  or  balls;  flour  well,  and  put  under  or  beside  the 

meat,  hfijf  an  hour  or  so  before  you  take  it  up.     Skim  oflf 

all  the  fat  from  the  gravy  before  putting  them  in.     Drain 
i,  them  dry  when  brown,  and  lay  around  the  meat  when 

dished. 

These  are  nice  with  roast  spare-rib,  or  any  roast  pork 

that  is  not  too  fat. 

Broiled  Potatoes. 

Cut  whole  boiled  potatoes,  lengthwise,  into   slices  a 

quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  lay  upon  a  gridiron  over  a 

hot,  bright  fire.     Brown  on  both  sides,  sprinkle  with  pep- 

.  per  and  salt,  lay  a  bit  of  butter  upon  each,  and  eat  very  hot. 

^"-  ^  Potato  Cakes. 

Make  cold  mashed  potato  into  flat  cakes ;  flour  and  hy 
in  lard,  or  good  sweet  dripping,  until  they  are  a  light-brown. 

Boast  Sweet  Potatoes. 

I  Select  those  of  uniform  size,  wash,  wipe,  and  roast  un- 

til you  can  tell,  by  gently  pressing  the  largest  between  the 
finger  and  thumb,  that  it  is  mellow  throughout.     Serve  in 
their  jackets. 
[  Sweet,  as  well  as  Irish  potatoes,  are  very  good  for  pic- 

[  nic  luncheon,  roasted  in  hot  ashes.     This,  it  will  be  remem- 

^  bered,  was  the  dinner  General  Marion  set  before  the  Brit- 

^  ish  officer  as  "  quite  a  feast,  I  assure  you,  sir.     We  don't 

often  fare  so  well  as  to  have  sweet  potatoes  and  salt." 

The  feast  was  cleansed  from  ashes  by  the  negro  orderly's 
shirt-sleeve,  and  served  upon  a  natural  trencher  of  pine- 
bark. 

10 


218  common  sense. 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Have  them  all  as  nearly  the  same  size  as  possible  ;  put 
into  cold  water,  without  any  salt,  and  boil  until  a  fork  will 
easily  pierce  the  largest.  Turn  oflf  the  water,  and  lay  them 
in  the  oven  to  diy  for  iive  minutes.  Peel  before  sending 
to  table. 

Or,  4. 

Parboil,  and  then  roast  until  dune.  This  is  a  wise  plan 
when  they  are  old  and  watery.  Boiling  is  apt  to  render 
them  tasteless.  Another  way  still  is  to  boil  until  they  are 
almost  done,  when  peel  and  bake  brown,  basting  them  with 
butter  several  times,  but  di-aining  them  dry  before  they  go 
to  the  table. 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes.  »J« 

Parboil  them,  skin,  and  cut  lengthwise  into  slices  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  '  Fry  in  sweet  dripping  or  butter. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes  may  be  cooked  in  this  way.  Or 
you  can  chop  them  up  with  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  Irish 
potatoes,  put  them  into  a  frying-pan  with  a  good  lump  of 
butter,  and  stir  until  they  are  hot  and  slightly  brown. 


CABBAGE. 
Boiled  Cabbage. 


Pick  off  the  outer  green  leaves,  quarter,  examine  care- 
fully to  be  sure  there  are  no  insects  in  it,  and  lay  for  an 
hour  in  cold  water.  Then  put  into  a  pot  with  plenty  of 
boiling  water,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Throw  away  the 
water,  and  fill  up  the  pot  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle.  Cook 
until  tender  aU  through.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  will 
do  for  a  good-sized  cabbage  when  young.     Late  in  the  sea- 


CABBAGE.  219 

son  you  must  be  guided  by  the  tenderness  of  the  stalk. 
Drain  well,  chop,  and  stir  in  a  tablcspoonful  of  butter,  pep- 
per, and  salt.  Serve  very  hot.  If  you  boil  corned  beef  or 
pork  to  eat  with  cabbage,  let  the  second  water  be  taken 
from  tho'  pot  in  which  this  is  cooking.  It  will  flavor  it 
nicely. 

Always  boil  cabbage  in  two  waters. 

Bacon  and  Cabbage. 

This,  I  need  hardly  say,  is  a  favorite  covintry  dish  at 
the  South.  The  old-fashioned  way  of  preparing  it  was  to 
boil  meat  and  cabbage  together,  and  serve,  reeking  with 
fat,  the  cabbage  in  quarters,  soaking  yet  more  of  the  essence 
from  the  ham  or  middling  about  which  it  lay.  In  this  shape 
it  justly  earned  a  reputation  for  grossness  and  indigestibility 
that  banished  it,  in  time,  from  many  tables. 

Yet  it  is  a  savory  and  not  unwholesome  article  of  food  in 
winter,  if  the  cabbage  be  boiled  in  two  waters,  the  second 
being  the  ^'  pot-liquor  "  from  the  boiling  meat.  Drain  thor- 
oughly in  a  cullender,  pressing  out  every  drop  of  water  that 
will  flow,  without  breaking  the  tender  leaves;  and  when 
the  meat  is  dished,  lay  the  cabbage  neatly  about  it,  and  upon 
each  quarter  a  sUce  of  hard-boiled  egg. 

When  you  eat,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar. 

Stuffed  Cabbage. 

Choose  for  this  purpose  a  large,  firm  cabbage.  Take  off 
the  outer  leaves,  and  lay  in  boiling  water  ten  minutes,  then 
in  very  cold.  Do  this  several  hours  before  you  are  ready 
to  stuff  it.  When  perfectly  cold,  bind  a  broad  tape  about  it, 
or  a  strip  of  muslin,  th^t  it  may  not  fall  apart  when  the 
stalk  is  taken  out.  Hemove  this  with  a  thin  sharp  knife, 
leaving  a  hole  about  as  deep  as  your  middle-finger.     Without 


220    .  COMMON  SENSE. 

widening  the  mouth  of  the  aperture,  excavate  the  centre 
u^til  you  have  room  for  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
force-meat — ^more,  if  the  head  be  large.  Chop  the  bits  you 
take  out  very  small ;  mix  with  some  minced  cold  boiled  pork 
or  ham,  or  cooked  sausage-meat,  a  very  little  onion,  pepper, 
salt,  a  pinch  of  thyme,  and  some  bread-crumbs.  Fill  the 
cavity  with  this,  bind  a  wide  strip  of  muslin  over  the  hole  in 
the  top,  and  lay  the  cabbage  in  a  large  saucepan  with  a  pint 
of  "pot-liquor"  from  boiled  beef  or  ham.  Stew  gently 
until  very  tender.  Take  out  the  cabbage,  unbind  carefully, 
and  lay  in  a  dish.  Keep  hot  while  you  add  to  the  gravy, 
when  you  have  strained  it,  pepper,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  and  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  rich  milk  or  cream. 
Boil  up,  and  pour  over  the  cabbage. 

"  COLLARDS,"   Oli  CaBBAQE-SpROUTS. 

Pick  over  carefully,  lay  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted, 
half  an  hour;  shake  in  a  cullender  to  drain,  and  put  into 
boiling  water,  keeping  at  a  fast  boil  until  tender.  A 
piece  of  pork  seasons  them  pleasantly.  In  this  case  put 
the  meat  on  first,  adding  the  greens  when  it  is  parboiled, 
and  cooking  them  together.  Boil  in  an  uncovered  vessel. 
Drain  very  well ;  chop  and  heap  in  a  dish,  laying  the  meat 
on  top. 

Ladies^  Cabbage.  ^ 

Boil  a  firm  white  cabbage  fifteen  minutes,  changing  the 
water  then  for  more  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle.  When 
tender,  drain  and  set  aside  until  perfectly  cold.  Chop  fine, 
and  add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  rich  milk  or  cream.  Stir  aU.  well 
together,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish  until  brown. 
Kat  very  hot. 

I  con  conscientiously  recommend  this  dish  even  to  those 


CABBAQE.  221 

who  are  not  fond  of  any  of  the  ordinary  preparations  of  cab- 
bage. It  is  digestible  and  palatable,  more  nearly  resem- 
bling cauliflower  in  taste  than  its  coarser  and  commoner 
cousin-  German, 

Fried  Cabbage. 

Chop  cold  boiled  cabbage,  and  drain  very  dry,  stirring 
in  a  little  melted  batter,  pepper,  and  salt,  with  three  or 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Heat  all  in  a  buttered  fry- 
ing-pan, stirring  until  smoking  hot ;  then  let  the  mixture 
stand  just  long  enough  to  brown  slightly  on  the  underside. 
It  is  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  couple  of  beaten  eggs. 
Turn  out  by  putting  a  flat  dish  above  the  pan,  upside-down, 
and  reversing  the  latter. 

This  is  a  breakfast-dish. 

Sauerkraut. 

Shred  or  chop  the  cabbage  fine.  Line  a  barrel,  keg,  or 
jar  with  cabbage-leaves  on  the  bottom  and  sides.  Put  in  a 
layer  of  the  cut  cabbage,  three  inches  in  depth ;  press  down 
well  and  sprinkle  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  salt.  When 
you  have  packed  five  layers  in  this  way,  press  hard  with  a 
board  cut  to  fit  loosely  on  the  inside  of  the  barrel  or  jar. 
Put  heavy  weights  on  this,  or  pound  with  a  wooden  beetle 
until  the  cabbage  is  a  compact  mass,  when  remove  the  board 
and  put  in  more  layers  of  salt  and  shred  cabbage,  repeating 
the  poundiDg  every  four  or  &ve  layers,  until  the  vessel  is 
full.  Cover  with  leaves,  and  put  the  board  on  the  top  of 
these  with  a  heavy  weight  to  keep  it  down.  Set  all  away 
to  ferment.  In  three  weeks  remove  the  sctmi,  and  if  need 
be,  cover  with  water.  Keep  in  a  cool  dry  cellar.  It  can  be 
eaten  raw  or  boiled,  and  seasoned  with  pork. 

This  is  the  mode  simple  if  not  pv/r  of  preparing  this,  to 
nostrils  unaccustomed  to  it,  malodorous  compound.    Some 


222  COMMON   SENSE. 

add  to  the  salt  whole  black  peppers,  cloves,  garlic,  and  mace 
— "  then  put  it  away,"  as  a  mild,  motherly  Teuton  dame 
once  told  me,  "  in  the  cellar  to  r — " — **  Rot ! "  interpolated  a 
disgusted  bystander,  anticipating  her  deliberate  utterance. 
"  No,  my  dear,"  drawled  the  placid  Fi'au,  "  to  ripen.'''* 


CAULIFLOWER 
Boiled  Cauliflower. 

Pick  off  tlie  leaves  and  cut  the  stalk  close  to  the  bottom 
of  the  bunch  of  flowers.  Lay  in  cold  water  for  half  an 
hour.  Unless  very  large,  do  not  cut  it ;  if  you  do,  quarter 
it  neatly.  Tie  a  close  net  of  coarse  bobbinet  lace  or  tarlar 
tan  about  it  to  prevent  breaking  or  bruising;  put  into 
boiling  water  salted,  and  cook  until  tender.  Undo  and  re- 
move the  net,  and  lay  the  cauliflower  in  a  hot  dish.  Have 
ready  a  large  cupful  of  nice  drawn  butter  and  pour  over  it. 

Cut  with  a  silver  knife  and  fork  in  helping  it  out,  and 
give  a  little  of  the  sauce  to  each  person.  Take  it  out  of  the 
water  as  soon  as  it  is  done,  serve  quickly,  and  eat  hot.  It 
darkens  with  standing. 

Stewed  Cauliflower. 

Use  for  this  dish  the  smaller  and  more  indiflerent  cauli- 
flowers. Cut  them  into  small  clusters ;  lay  in  cold  salt  and 
water  half  an  hour,  and  stew  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling 
water.  Turn  most  of  this  ofl*,  leaving  but  half  a  teacupful 
in  the  saucepan.  Add  to  this  a  half-cupful  of  milk  thick- 
ened with  a  very  little  rice  or  wheat  flour,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Shake  the 
saucepan  over  the  Are  gently  until  it  boils ;  take  out  the 
cauliflowers  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  lay  in  order  upon  a 
dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 


vegetables.  223 

Scalloped  Cauliflower. 

Boil  until  tender,  clip  into  neat  clusters,  and  pack — ^the 
stems  downward — in  a  buttered  pudding- dish.  Beat  up  a 
cupful  of  bread-crumbs  to  a  soft  paste  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter  and  three  of  cream  or  milk  ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  bind  with  a  beaten  egg,  and  with  this 
cover  the  cauliflower.  Cover  the  dish  closely  and  bake  six 
minutes  in  a  quick  ovon ;  brown  in  five  more,  and  serve 
very  hot  in  the  dish  in  which  they  were  baked. 

Broccoli  and  Brussels  Sprouts. 

Pick  over,  wash  carefully,  cut  off  the  lower  part  of  the 
stems  and  lay  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted,  half  an  hour. 
Cook  quickly  in  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt,  until  tender. 
This  will  be  in  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes.  Cook  in  an  un- 
covered saucepan.  Drain  well,  lay  in  a  neat  pile  lightly 
heaped  in  the  centre  of  a  dish,  and  pour  drawn  butter  over 
them,  or  serve  this  in  a  tureen. 

Broccoli  and  Eggs. 

Boil  two  or  three  heads  of  broccoli  until  tender.  Have 
ready  two  cupfuls  of  butter  drawn  in  the  usual  way,  and 
beat  into  it,  while  hot,  four  well-whipped  eggs.  Lay  but- 
tered toast  in  the  bottom  of  a  hot  dish,  and  on  this  the 
largest  head  of  broccoli  whole,  as  a  centre-piece.  Arrange 
close  about  this  the  others  cut  into  clustei-s,  the  stems 
downward,  and  pour  the  egg-sauce  over  all. 

Mashed  Turnips. 

Peel  and  lay  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted,  until  the 
water  boils  in  the  saucepan  intended  for  them.  Put  them 
in  and  boil  until  very  tender.  The  time  will  depend  upon 
their  age.     Drain  and  mash  in  the  cullender  with  a  wooden 


] 


224  OOKHON   SENSE. 

spoon,  stirriBg  in  at  the  last  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  serve  hot. 

If  eaten  with  boiled  corned  beef,  you  may  take  a  little 
of  the  liquor  from  the  pot  in  which  the  meat  is  cooking ; 
put  it  into  a  saucepan,  boil  up  once  to  throw  off  the 
scum,  skim  clean,  and  cook  the  turnips  in  this. 

Or, 

If  the  turnips  are  young,  rub  them  when  tender  through 
the  cullender ;  add  a  little  milk,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ; 
heat  to  boiling  in  a  clean  saucepan,  and  serve. 

Young  Turnips  Boiled  Whole. 

Pare  smoothly,  and  tiim  all  into  the  same  size  and 
shape.  Lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour.  Put  on  in  boiling 
water,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  stew  until  tender. 
Drain  dry,  without  crushing  or  breaking  them ;  pile  in  a 
deep  dish,  and  cover  with  a  white  sauce  made  of  butter 
drawn  in  milk.     Turnips  should  be  eaten  very  hot  always. 

Boiled  Spinach. 

In  respect  to  quantity,  spinach  is  desperately  deceitful. 
I  never  see  it  drained  after  it  is  boiled  without  bethinking 
myself  of  a  picture  I  saw  many  years  since,  illustrative  of 
the  perils  of  innocent  simplicity.  A  small  (lucky)  boy  and 
big  (unlucky)  one  have  been  spending  their  holiday  in  fish- 
ing. While  the  former,  well  satisfied  with  the  result  of  his 
day's  sport,  is  busy  putting  up  hiB  rod  and  tackle,  the  de- 
signing elder  dexterously  substitutes  his  own  string  of  min- 
nows for  the  other's  store  of  fine  perch.  The  little  fellow, 
turning  to  pick  it  up,  without  a  suspicion  of  the  cruel  cheat, 
makes  piteous  round  eyes  at  his  fellow,  ejaculating,  "  How 
they  have  swhrunk  I " 

A  young  housekeeper  of  my  acquaintance,  ordering  a 


VEGETABLES.  225 

Spring  dinner  for  Herself  and  husband,  piirchascd  a  quart 
of  spinach.  When  it  should  have  appeared  upon  the  table, 
there  came  in  its  stead  a  platter  of  sliced  egg,  she  having 
given  out  one  for  the  dressing.  "  Where  is  the  spinach  ?  " 
she  demanded  of  the  maid  of  all  work.  "  Under  the  egg, 
ma'am !  "     And  it  was  really  all  there. 

Moral, — Get  enough  spinach  to  be  visible  to  the  naked 
eye.     A  peck  is  not  too  much  for  a  family  of  four  or  ^^, 

Pick  it  over  very  carefully;  it  is  apt  to  be  gritty. 
Wash  in  several  waters,  and  let  it  lie  in  the  last  half  an 
hour  at  least.  Take  out  with  your  hands,  shaking  each 
bunch  well,  and  put  into  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt. 
Boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  When  tender,  drain 
thoroughly,  chop  very  fine ;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir 
until  very  hot,  turn  into  a  dish  and  shape  into  a  flat-topped 
mound  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon;  slice  some  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  lay  on  top. 

Or, 
Rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  powder ;  rniv  with  butter, 
and  when  your  mound  is  raised,  spread  smoothly  over  the 
flat  top.  Four  eggs  will  dress  a  good-sized  dish.  Cut  the 
whites  into  rings  and  garnish,  laying  them  on  the  yellow 
surface.     This  makes  a  pleasant  dressing  for  the  spinach. 

Spinach  A  la  CRfearE. 

Boil  and  chop  very  fine,  or  rub  through  a  cullender. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  in,  while  warm,  three 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter  (this  is  for  a  large  dish).  Put 
into  a  saucepan  and  heat,  stirring  constantly.  When  smok- 
ing hot,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  a  teaspoonful 
white  sugar.  Boil  up  once,  still  stirring,  and  press  firmly 
into  a  hot  bowl  or  other  mould.  Turn  into  a  hot  dish  and 
garnish  with  boiled  eggs. 

10* 


226  COMMON  SENSE. 

Green  Peas. 

Shell  and  lay  iu  cold  water  until  you  are  ready  to  cook 
them.  Put  into  salted  boiling  water,  and  cook  from  twen- 
ty minutes  to  half  an  hour.  If  young  and  fresh,  the  short- 
er time  will  suffice.  If  just  gathered  from  your  own  vines 
and  tender,  season  only  with  salt.  Market  peas  are  greatly 
improved  by  the  addition  of  a  small  lump  of  white  sugar. 
It  improves  taste  and  color.  The  English  always  put  it  in, 
also  a  sprig  of  mint,  to  be  removed  when  the  peas  are 
dished.  Drain  well,  and  dish,  with  a  great  lump  of  butter 
stirred  in,  and  a  little  pepper.     Keep  hot. 

Pea  Fritters  or  Cakes.  4* 

Cook  a  pint  or  three  cups  more  peas  than  you  need  for 
dinner.  Mash  while  hot  with  a  wooden  spoon,  seasoning 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Put  by  until  morning.  Make 
a  batter  of  two  whipped  eggs,  a  cupful  of  milk,  quarter  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  a  half  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  and  half  a 
cup  of  flour.  Stir  the  pearmixture  into  this,  beating  very 
hard,  and  cook  as  you  would  ordinary  griddle-cakes. 

I  can  testify,  from  experience,  that  they  make  a  delight- 
fid  morning  dish,  and  hereby  return  thanks  to  the  unknown 
friend  to  whom  I  am  indebted  for  the  receipt. 

Asparagus  (boUed). 

Cut  your  stalks  of  equal  length,  rejecting  the  woody  or 
lower  portions,  and  scraping  the  white  part  which  remains. 
Throw  into  cold  water  as  you  scrape  them.  Tie  in  a  bunch, 
with  soft  strings — ^muslin  or  tape — and  put  into  boiling 
water  slightly  salted.  If  very  young  and  fresh,  it  is  well 
to  tie  in  a  piece  of  coarse  net  to  protect  the  tops.  Boil 
from  twenty  to  forty  minutes,  according  to  the  age.  Just 
before  it  is  done,  toast  two  or  three  slices  of  bread,  cutting 


VEGETABLES.  227 

off  the  crust ;  dip  in  the  asparagus  liquor,  butter,  and  lay 
in  a  hot  dish.  When  you  take  off  the  asparagus,  drain,  un- 
bind the  bundle,  and  heap  it  upon  the  toast,  with  bits  of 
butter  between  the  stalks. 

Asparagus  and  Eggs. 

Cut  twenty-five  or  thirty  heads  of  asparagus  into  bits 
half  an  inch  long,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Have  a  cup- 
ful of  rich  drawn  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  put  in  the  as- 
paragus when  you  have  drained  it  dry.  Heat  together  to 
a  boil,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  into  a  but- 
tered bake-dish.  Break  ^ve  or  six  eggs  cai'efuUy  over  the 
surface ;  put  a  bit  of  butter  upon  each ;  sprinkle  with  salt, 
and  pepper,  and  put  in  the  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set. 

You  may  beat  the  eggs — yolks  and  whites  separately — 
to  a  froth ;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  stir  them 
together,  with  the  addition  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of  m\}\r 
or  cream,  and  pour  evenly  over  the  asparagus  mixture  in 
the  dish.  This  is  decidedly  the  better  way  of  the  two, 
although  somewhat  more  troublesome, 

Aspakagus  in  Ambush.  4* 

Cut  off  the  tender  tops  of  fifty  heads  of  asparagus ;  boil 
and  drain  them.  Have  ready  half  a  dozen  (or  more)  stale 
biscuit  or  rolls,  from  which  you  have  cut  a  neat  top  slice 
and  scraped  out  the  crumb.  Set  them  in  the  oven  to  crisp, 
.laying  the  tops  beside  them,  that  the  cavities  may  be  well 
dried.  Meanwhile,  put  into  a  saucepan  a  sugarless  custard 
made  of  a  pint — ^if  you  need  so  much — of  milk,  and  four 
well-whipped  eggs.  Boil  the  milk  first,  before  beating  in 
the  eggs;  set  over  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  thickens,  when 
add  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  pepper ; 


228  COMMON  6EN6E. 

lastly  the  asparagus  tops,  minced  fine.  Do  not  let  it  boil, 
but  take  from  the  fire  so  soon  as  the  asparagus  is  fairly  in ; 
fill  the  rolls  with  the  mixture,  put  on  the  tops,  fitting  them 
accurately ;  set  in  the  oven  three  minutes,  and  arrange  on 
a  dish,  to  be  eaten  hot 

The  number  of  rolls  will  depend  upon  their  size.  It  is 
better  to  have  them  small,  so  that  one  can  be  served  to  each 
person.     They  will  be  found  extremely  nice. 

Boiled  Okions. 

Cut  off  tops  and  tails,  and  skin  them.  Lay  in  cold 
water  half  an  hour,  then  put  into  a  saucepan  with  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  them.  Cook  fifteen  minutes  and 
drain  off  the  water,  re-covering  them  with  more  from  the 
boiling  tearkettle.  Boil  until  a  straw  will  pierce  them ; 
drain  and  put  into  a  dish  with  pepper,  salt,  and  plenty  of 
butter.  Send  around  drawn  butter  with  them.  Never  cook 
onions  in  an  iron  pot. 

Stewed  Onions.  4* 

Young  onions  should  always  be  copked  in  this  way : 
Top,  tail,  and  skin  them,  lay  them  in  cold  water  half  an  hour 
or  more,  then  put  into  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  enough 
to  cover  them.  When  half  done,  throw  off  all  the  water, 
except  a  small  teacupful — less,  if  your  mess  is  small ;  add 
a  like  quantity  of  milk,  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Stew  gently  until  tender,  and 
turn  into  a  deep  dish. 

If  the  onions  are  strong  and  large,  boil  in  three  waters, 
throwing  away  all  of  the  first  and  second,  and  reserving  a 
very  little  of  the  third  to  mix  with  the  milk. 

It  ought  to  be  more  generally  known  that  the  disagreea- 
ble odor  left  by  any  of  the  onion  family  upon  the  breath 
may  be  removed  by  chewing  and  swallowing  a  few  grains 


ONIONS.  229 

of  roasted  coffee.  No  more  nutritious  vegetable  ever  finds 
its  way  to  our  tables,  and  it  is  greatly  to  be  regretted  that 
the  unpleasant  result  just  named  should  deter  so  many  from 
eating  it.  It  is  especially  beneficial  to  brain-workers  and 
nervous  invalids — the  very  people  who  are  least  likely  to 
taste  it. 

Baked  Onions. 

The  large  Spanish  or  Beimuda  onions  are  the  only  kinds 
which  are  usually  baked.  Wash  clean,  but  do  not  remove 
the  skins.  Boil  an  hour — ^the  water  should  be  boiling 
when  they  are  put  in,  and  slightly  salt.  Change  it  twice 
during  this  time,  always  replenishing  with  more,  boiling- 
hot.  Tarn  off  the  water,  take  the  onions  out  and  lay  upon 
a  cloth,  that  all  the  moisture  may  be  absorbed  or  evaporate. 
Kol]  each  in  a  round  piece  of  buttered  tissue-paper,  twisting 
it  at  the  top  to  keep  it  closed,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
nearly  an  hour.  When  tender  all  through,  peel  them,  put 
them  into  a  deep  dish,  and  brown  slightly,  basting  with 
butter  freely.  This  will  take  perhaps  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
more.  Serve  in  a  vegetable  dish,  and  pour  over  the  melted 
butter,  when  you  have  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Stuffed  Onions. 

Wash  and  skin  very  large  Bermuda  onions.  Lay  in 
cold  water  an  hour.  Parboil  in  boiling  water  half  an  hour. 
Drain,  and  while  hot  extract  the  hearts^  taking  care  not  to 
break  the  outer  layers.  Chop  the  inside  thus  obtained  veiy 
fine,  with  a  little  cold  fat  pork  or  bacon.  Add  bread- 
crambs,  pepper,  salt,  mace,  and  wet  with  a  spoonful  or  two 
of  cream.  Bind  with  a  well-beaten  egg,  and  work  into  a 
smooth  paste.  Stuff  the  onions  with  this ;  put  into  a  drip- 
ping-pan with  a  very  little  hot  water,  and  simmer  in  the 
oven  for  an  hour,  basting  often  with  melted  butter.     When 


230  COMMON   BENSE. 

done,  take  the  onions  up  carefully,  and  arrange  the  open 
ends  uppermost  in  a  vegetable  dish.  Add  to  the  gravy  in 
the  dripping-pan  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cream  or  milk,  and  a  little  browned  flour  wet  with 
cold  milk.     Boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the  onions. 

Stewed  Tomatoes.  4* 

Loosen  the  skins  by  pouring  scalding  water  upon  them ; 
peel  and  cut  them  up,  extracting  the  cores  or  hard  part  of 
the  stem-end,  and  removing  all  unripe  portions.  Stew  in  a 
saucepan  (tin  or  porcelain)  half  an  hour,  when  add  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Stew  gently  fifteen  minutes  longer, 
and  serve. 

Some  cooks  thicken  the  tomatoes  with  a  little  grated 
bread.  A  minced  onion — a  small  one — ^improves  the  flavor. 
Another  pleasant  variety  is  to  put  a  quarter  as  much  green 
corn  as  you  have  tomatoes  into  the  saucepan  when  it  is  first 
set  on  the  fire,  and  stew  gently. 

Stuffed  Baked  Tomatoes.  4* 

Choose  large,  smooth  tomatoes,  and  cut  a  thin  slice 
from  the  blossom  end  of  each,  laying  it  aside  for  further 
use.  Scoop  out  the  inside,  and  chop  fine  with  a  little  grated 
bread,  some  green  com,  salt,  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  white 
sugar,  and  a  tablespoonful  butter.  Mix  well,  and  stuff  the 
hollowed  tomatoes.  Fit  the  top  on  neatly,  place  in  circu- 
lar rows  in  a  deep  dish  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
to  a  light  brown.  Fill  the  interstices  with  the  force-meat 
if  you  have  any  left,  before  you  bake.     Do  not  peel  them. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes,  p^ 

Peel  and  cut  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Pack 
in  a  pudding-dish  in  alternate  layers,  with  a  force-meat  made 


TOMATOES.  231 

of  bread-crumbs,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  white 
sugar.  Spread  thickly  upon  each  stratum  of  tomatoes,  and 
when  the  dish  is  nearly  full,  put  tomatoes  uppermost,  a 
good  bit  of  butter  upon  each  slice.  Dust  with  pepper  and 
a  little  sugar.  Strew  with  dry  bread-crumbs,  and  bake  cov- 
ered half  an  hour ;  remove  the  lid  and  bake  brown. 

Scallop  of  Tomatoes  and  Gbesn  Corn,  p^ 

This  is  made  as  above,  substituting  for  the  bread-crumbs 
in  the  force-meat,  green  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  and  season- 
ing with  some  fat  pork  chopped  very  fine,  a  minced  shallot, 
pepper,  salt,  and  sugar.  Let  the  top  layer  be  tomatoes, 
butter  and  season,  and  sift  grated  bread-crumbs  over  it  to 
brown  the  scallop.  Bake  covered  half  an  hour ;  uncover 
and  leave  in  the  oven  as  much  longer.  This  time  is  for  a 
lai'ge  dishful. 

Broiled  Tomatoes. 

Select  large,  firm  ones,  and  do  not  peel.  Slice  half  an 
inch  thick,  and  broil  upon  an  oyster  gridiron.  A  few 
minutes  will  suffice  to  cook  them.  Have  ready  in  a  cup 
some  hot  butter,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  sugai-, 
and  a  half  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard.  As  soon  as  the 
tomatoes  are  done,  dip  each  piece  in  this  mixture  and  lay 
upon  a  hot  chafing-dish.  When  all  are  dished,  heat  what 
remains  of  the  seasoning  to  a  boil,  pour  upon  them,  and 
serve  at  once. 

Broiled  tomatoes  are  much  liked  by  those  who  have 
eaten  them  cooked  in  this  manner. 

Baked  Tomatoes  {Plain). 

Peel  and  slice  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Pack  in  a 
pudding-dish,  seasoning  each  layer  with  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
and  a  very  little  white  sugar.     Bake  covered  half  an  hour ; 


232  COMMON   8ENSK 

remove  the  lid,  and  brown  for  fifteen  minutes.  Five  min- 
utes before  taking  from  the  oven,  pour  over  the  top  three 
or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  whipped  up  for  a  few 
minutes  with  melted  butter. 

Raw  Touatoes. 

Do  not  loosen  the  skins  with  scalding  water.  It  im- 
pairs the  flavor  and  destroys  the  crispness.  Pare  with  a 
keen  knife,  slice  and  lay  in  a  glass  dish.  Season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar,  stirring  a  piece  of  ice  rapidly 
around  in  the  dressing  before  pouring  it  over  the  tomatoes, 
and  setting  the  dish  in  the  refrigerator  until  wanted. 

There  is  no  salad,  excepting,  perhaps,  lettuce  and  cucum- 
bers, that  is  more  improved  by  the  use  of  ioe  than  tomatoes. 

Raw  Cucumbers. 

Pare  neatly  from  end  to  end,  and  lay  in  ice-water  one 
hour.  Wipe  them  and  slice  thin.  Season  with  pepper, 
salt^  and  vinegar — and  oil,  if  you  wish — claying  some  bits  of 
ice  among  them,  with  thin  slices  of  onion.  Cucumbers 
should  be  gathered  while  the  dew  is  on  them,  and  eaten  the 
same  day.  Leave  them  in  a  cool  place  until  you  are  ready 
to  pare  them. 

Fried  Cucumbers.  9^t 

Pare  and  lay  in  ice-water  half  an  hour.  Cut  length- 
wise into  slices  nearly  half  an  inch  thick,  and  lay  in  ice- 
water  ten  minutes  longer.  Wipe  each  piece  dry  with  a 
soft  cloth,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  di^edge  with 
flour.  Fry  to  a  delicate  brown  in  sweet  clarified  dripping, 
nice  lard,  or  butter. 

Many  declare  that  cuciimbers  are  never  fit  to  eat  unless 
fried,  and  they  are  assuredly  far  more  wholesome  than 
when  served  raw. 


GBEEN   CORN.  238 

STEwia)  Cucumbers. 

Pare,  lay  in  ice-water  an  hour ;  then  slice  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick.  Pick  out  the  seeds  with  a  pen-knife,  and 
put  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover 
them.  Stew  fifteen  minutes,  and  drain  off  the  water. 
Add  enough  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle  to  keep  them  from 
burning;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  carefully 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter — or  two,  should  the  quantity 
of  cucumber  be  large.  Stew  gently  ten  minutes,  and  add 
half  a  cupful  of  rich  milk;  thicken  with  a  little  flour, 
boil  up,  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish,  squeezing  some  lemon- 
juice  in  at  the  last. 

This  is  a  popular  English  dish,  although  it  seems  a 
strange  one  to  American  ideals. 

Boiled  Green  Corn. 

Choose  young  sugar-corn,  full  grown,  but  not  hard ; 
test  with  the  nail.  When  the  grain  is  pierced,  the  milk 
should  escape  in  a  jet,  and  not  be  thick.  Clean  by  strip- 
ping off*  the  outer  leaves,  turn  back  the  innermost  cover- 
ing carefully,  pick  off  every  thread  of  silk,  and  recover 
the  ear  with  the  thin  husk  that  grew  nearest  it.  Tie  at 
the  top  with  a  bit  of  thread,  put  into  boiling  water  salted, 
and  cook  flast  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour,  in 
proportion  to  size  and  age.  Cut  off  the  stalks  close  to  the 
cob,  and  send  whole  to  table  wrapped  in  a  napkin. 

Or,  you  can  cut  from  the  cob  while  hot,  and  season 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Send  to  table  in  a  root  or 
vegetable  dish. 

Corn  and  Tomatoes. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  green  com  cut  from  the  cob, 
and  tomatoes  sliced  and  peeled.     Stew  together  half  an 


234  COMMON   6ENBK. 

hour;  season  "with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  very  little  sugar. 
Stew  fifteen  minutes  longer,  and  stir  in  a  great  lump  of 
butter.     Five  minutes  later,  pour  out  and  serve. 

SlX'COTASH. 

This  is  made  of  gi'een  corn  and  Lima  beans,  although 
you  can  substitute  for  the  latter  string  or  butter  beans. 
Have  a  third  more  com  than  beans,  when  the  former  has 
been  cut  from  the  cob  and  the  beans  shelled.  Put  into 
boiling  water  enough  to  cover  them — ^no  more — and  stew 
gently  together  until  tender — perhaps  half  an  hour — stir- 
ring now  and  then.  Pour  off  neai-ly  all  the  water,  and 
add  a  large  cupful  of  milk.  Stew  in  this,  watching  to  pre- 
vent burning,  for  an  hour ;  then  stir  in  a  great  lump  of 
butter,  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  flour  wet  with  cold  milk,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  up  once,  and  pour  into  a  deep 
vegetable-dish.  If  you  use  string-beans,  string  and  cut  up 
into  half-inch  lengths  before  cooking. 

Green  Corn  Pudding.  4* 

1  quart  milk. 
6  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
1  "  white  sugar. 

1  dozen  ears  of  com — large  ones. 

Grate  the  com  from  the  cob ;  beat  the  whites  and  yolks 
of  the  eggs  separately.  Put  the  com  and  yolks  together, 
stir  hardy  and  add  the  butter;  then  the  milk  gradually, 
beating  all  the  while ;  next  the  sugar  and  {i  little  salt ; 
lastly  the  whites.  Bake  slowly  at  first,  covering  the  dish, 
for  an  hour.     Remove  the  cover,  and  brown  finely. 

This  is  a  most  delicious  accompaniment  to  a  meat 
courae,  when  properly  mixed  and  baked.     Warm  up  what 


GREEN   CORN.  285 

is  left  from  dinner  for  breakfast,  by  moistening  it  with  a 
little  warm  milk  and  stirring  in  a  saucepan  until  smoking- 
hot.  You  can  make  this  pudding  from  canned  com  in 
winter. 

Green  Corn  Fritters  or  Cakes.  »J^ 

Grate  the  corn,  and  allow  an  egg  and  a  half  for  every 
cupful,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  milk  or  cream.  Beat  the 
eggs  well,  add  the  corn  by  degrees,  beating  very  hard  ;  salt 
to  taste;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  to  every 
pint  of  com ;  stir  in  the  milk,  and  thicken  with  just 
enough  flour  to  hold  them  together — say  a  tablespoonful 
for  every  two  eggs.  You  may  fry  in  hot  lard,  as  you  would 
fritters,  but  a  better  plan  is  to  cook  upon  a  griddle,  like 
batter  cakes.  Test  a  little  first,  to  see  that  it  is  of  the 
right  consistency. 

Eaten  at  dinner  or  breakfast,  these  always  meet  with  a 
cordial  welcome. 

Stewed  Green  Corn. 

Cut  from  the  cob,  and  stew  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling 
water.  Turn  oflf  most  of  this,  cover  with  cold  milk,  and 
stew  until  very  tender,  adding,  before  you  take  it  up,  a 
large  lump  of  butter  cut  into  bits  and  rolled  in  flour. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  five  minutes, 
and  serve. 

Cold  com  left  from  dinner  shovQd  be  cut  from  the  cob 
and  stewed  a  few  minutes  in  a  little  milk,  adding  seasoning 
as  above.  Or,  you  can  mix  it  with  chopped  cold  potatoes — 
Irish  or  sweet ;  heat  a  piece  of  butter  or  beef-dripping  in 
a  frying-pan,  and  stir  in  the  mixture  until  smoking-hot. 
Never  throw  away  a  good  ear  of  sweet  corn. 


286  OOHMON   SENSE. 

EoASTED  Green  Corn. 

Turn  back  the  husks  upon  the  stalk,  pick  off  the  silk, 
recover  with  the  husks  closely  as  possible,  and  roast  in  the 
hot  ashes  of  a  wood-fire.  Eat  with  butter,  salt,  and  pep- 
per, out  of  doors,  in  the  forest,  or  on  the  beach. 

Salsify  or  Oyster-Plant  {Stewed).  >{« 

Scrape  the  roots,  dropping  each  into  cold  water  as  soon 
as  it  is  cleaned.  Exposure  to  the  air  blackens  them.  Cut 
in  pieces  an  inch  long,  put  into  a  saucepan  with  hot  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  and  stew  until  tender.  Turn  off 
nearly  all  the  water,  and  add  a  cupful  of  cold  milk. 
Stew  ten  minutes  after  this  begins  to  boil ;  put  in  a  great 
lump  of  butter,  cut  into  bits,  and  roUeil  in  flour ;  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  up  once,  and  serve.  The  taste  is 
curiously  like  that  of  stewed  oysters. 

Fried  Salsify,  or  Mock  Oysters.  ^ 

Scrape  the  roots  thoroughly,  and  lay  in  cold  water  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes.  Boil  whole  until  tender,  drain,  and 
when  cold,  mash  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  a  smooth  paste, 
picking  out  all  the  fibres.  Moisten  with  a  little  milk ;  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  an  egg  and  a  half  for  every 
cupful  of  salsify.  Beat  the  eggs  light.  Make  into  round 
cakes,  dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  brown. 

Fried  Eqq-Plant.  >|« 

Slice  the  egg-plant  at  least  half  on  inch  thick ;  pare  each 
piece  carefully,  and  lay  in  salt  and  water,  putting  a  plate 
upon  the  topmost  to  keep  it  under  the  brine,  and  let  them 
alone  for  an  hour  or  more.  Wipe  each  slice,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  until  well 
done  and  nicely  browned. 


TBOETABLEB.  237 

Stuffed  Egg-Plant. 

Parboil  for  ten  minutes.     Slit  each  down  the  side,  and 
L  extract  the  seeds.     Prop  open  the  cut  with  a  bit  of  clean 

wood  or  china,  and  lay  in  cold  salt  and  water  while  you 
prepare  the  force-meat.  Make  this  of  bread-crumbs,  minute 
bits  of  fat  pork,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  parsley,  and  a  very 
little  onion,  chopped  up  together.  Moisten  with  cream,  and 
bind  with  a  beaten  egg.  Fill  the  cavity  in  the  egg-plant 
with  this ;  wind  soft  pack-thread  about  them  to  keep  the 
slit  shut,  and  bake,  putting  a  little  water  in  the  dripping- 
pan.  Baste  with  butter  and  water  when  they  begin  to 
cook.  Test  with  a  straw  when  they  are  tender,  and  baste 
twice  at  the  last  with  butter.  Lay  the  egg-plants  in  a  dish, 
add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  to  the  gravy, 
thicken  with  a  little  flour,  put  in  a  teaspoonfiil  of  chopped 
parsley,  boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the  vegetable. 

Boiled  Carrots. 

Wash  and  scrape  well,  and  lay  in  cold  water  half  an 
hour.  If  large,  split  them,  or  cut  across  in  two  or  three 
pieces.  Put  into  boiling  water,  slightly  salted,  and  boil 
imtil  tender.  Large  ones  will  require  nearly  an  hour  and 
a  half  to  cook.  Young  carrots  should  only  be  washed  be- 
fore they  are  boiled,  and  the  skin  be  nibbed  off  with  a  cloth 
afterward.     Butter  well,  and  serve  hot. 

Stewed  Carrots. 

Scrape,  and  lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour  or  more. 
Boil  whole  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  drain,  and  cut  into 
round  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Put  on  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  teacupful  of  broth — ^veal,  or  beef,  or  mutton ; 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  stew  gently  half  an  hour.  Just 
before  they  are  done,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  cream  or  milk. 


288  COMMON   BENSE. 

and  a  good  lump  of  butter  cut  into  bits,  and  rolled  in  flour. 
Boil  up  and  serve. 

If  you  have  not  the  broth,  use  water,  and  put  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  when  the  saucepan  is  set  on  the  fire,  in 
addition  to  the  quantity  I  have  specified. 

AnoHver  Way, 

Scrape  and  boil  until  neai^ly  done.  Cut  into  small 
squares,  and  put  into  a  saucepan,  with  two  small  onions 
minced ;  a  little  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
and  half  a  cup  of  rather  thin  drawn  butter.  They  will  re- 
quire half  an  hour's  simmering.     Serve  hot. 

Mashed  Carrots. 

Wash,  scrape,  and  lay  in  cold  water  a  while.  Boil  very 
tender  in  hot  water,  slightly  salted.  Diuin,  and  mash 
with  a  beetle  or  wooden  spoon,  working  in  a  large  spoonful 
of  butter,  with  pepper  and  salt.  A  little  cream  will  im- 
prove them.  Mound  as  you  would  mashed  potatoes,  and 
stamp  a  figure  upon  them,  or  mark  in  squares  with  a  knife. 

French,  oe  String  or  "  Snap  "  Beans. 

Break  off  the  tops  and  bottoms  and  "  string  "  carefully. 
Tlieji  pare  both  edges  with  a  sharp  knife,  to  be  certain  that 
no  remnant  of  the  tough  fibre  remains.  Kot  one  cook  in 
a  hundred  performs  this  duty  as  deftly  and  thoroughly  as 
it  should  be  done.  I  have  heard  several  gentlemen  say  that 
they  could  always  tell,  after  the  first  mouthful,  whether  the 
mistress  or  the  hireling  had  "  strung  "  the  beans.  It  is  a 
tedious  and  disagreeable  business,  this  pulling  bits  of  woody 
thread  out  of  one^s  mouth  when  he  wants  to  enjoy  his  dinner. 

Cut  the  beans  thus  cleared  of  their  troublesome  attachisy 
in  pieces  an  inch  long,  an*!  lay  in  cold  water  with  a  little 


VEGETABLES.  239 

salt  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Drain  them,  and  put 
into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Boil  quickly,  twenty 
minutes  if  well-grown — ^less  if  small — at  any  rate,  until 
tender.  Drain  in  a  cullender  until  the  water  ceases  to  drip 
from  them.  Dish  with  a  great  spoonful  of  butter  stirred  in. 
To  my  taste,  beans  need  to  have  a  bit  of  bacon  boiled 
with  them — whole,  or  chopped  into  bits  that  dissolve  in  the 
boiling.  It  mellows  the  rank  taste  you  seek  to  remove  by 
boiling. 

Lima  and  Butter  Beans. 

Shell  into  cold  water ;  let  them  lie  a  while ;  put  into  a 
pot  with  plenty  of  boiling  water  and  a  little  salt,  and  cook 
fast  until  tender.  Large  ones  sometimes  require  nearly  an 
hour's  boiling.  The  average  time  is  forty  minutes.  Drain 
and  butter  well  when  dished,  peppering  to  taste. 

Kidney  and  other  Small  Beans. 

Shell  into  cold  water,  and  cook  in  boiling  until  tender. 
A  small  piece  of  fat  bacon  boiled  with  them  is  an  advan- 
tage to  nearly  all.     If  you  do  this,  do  not  salt  them. 

Dried  Beans. 

Wash  and  soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  water,  chang- 
ing it  several  times  for  warmer.  If  this  is  done  they  will 
require  but  two  hours'  boiling.  Drain  very  thoroughly, 
pressing  them  firmly,  but  lightly,  in  the  cullender  with  a 
wooden  spoon;  mix  in  a  great  lump  of  butter  when  they 
are  dished. 

Boiled  Beets. 

Wash,  but  do  not  touch  with  a  knife  before  they  are 
boiled.  If  cut  while  raw,  they  bleed  themselves  pale  in 
the  hot  water.     Boil  until  tender — ^if  full-grown  at  least 


240  COMMON  BENSE. 

two  hours.  When  done,  rub  off  the  skins,  slice  round  if 
large,  split  if  young,  and  butter  well  in  the  dish.  Salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 

A  nice  way  is  to  slice  them  upon  a  hot  dish,  mic  a  great 
spoonfvQ  of  melted  butter  with  four  or  five  of  vinegar,  pep- 
per and  salt,  heat  to  boiling,  and  pour  over  the  beets. 

Instead  of  consigning  the  cold  ones  ^*  left  over  ^'  to  the 
swill-pail,  pour  cold  vinegar  upon  them  and  use  as  pickles 
with  cold  or  roast  meat. 

Stewed  Beets. 

Boil  young,  sweet  beets,  until  nearly  done ;  skin  and 
slice  them.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  minced  shallot  and 
parsley,  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  a  like  quantity 
of  vinegar,  some  salt  and  peppen  Set  on  the  fire  and  sim- 
mer twenty  minutes,  shaking  the  saucepan  now  and  then. 
Serve  with  the  gravy  poured  over  them. 

Boused  Parsnips. 

If  young,  scrape  before  cooking.  If  old,  pare  carefully, 
and  if  large,  split.  Put  into  boiling  water,  salted,  and  boil, 
if  small  and  tender,  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
if  full-grown,  more  than  an  hour.  When  tender,  drain  and 
slice  lengthwise,  buttering  well  when  you  dish. 

Fried  Parsnips.  >|* 

Boil  until  tender,  scrape  off  the  skin,  and  cut  in  thick 
lengthwise  slices.  Dredge  with  flour  and  fry  in  hot  drip- 
ping or  lard,  turning  when  one  side  is  browned.  Drain  off 
every  drop  of  fat ;  pepper,  and  serve  hot. 


VEGETABLES.  241 

Parsnip  Fritters.  >|* 

Boil  tender,  mcush  smooth  and  fine,  picking  ont  the 
woody  bits.  For  three  large  parsnips  allow  two  eggs,  one 
cup  rich  milk,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  flour.  Beat  the  eggs  light,  stir  in 
the  mashed  parsnips,  beating  hard;  then  the  butter  and 
salt,  next  the  milk,  lastly  the  salt.  Fry  as  fritters,  or  as 
griddle-cakes. 

Mashed  Parsnips. 

Boil  and  scrape  them,  mash  smooth  with  the  back  of  a 
wooden  spoon,  or  a  potato-beetle,  picking  out  the  fibres ; 
mix  in  three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  great  spoonful 
of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Heat  to  boiling  in  a 
saucepan,  and  serve.  Heap  in  a  mound  as  you  would  po- 
tato cooked  in  the  same  way. 

Buttered  Parsnips. 

Boil  tender  and  scrape.  Slice  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick 
lengthwise.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  three  tablespoonfuls 
melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley. 
Shake  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  boils.  Lay  the  pars- 
nips in  order  upon  a  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  them,  and 
garnish  with  parsley.  It  is  a  pleasant  addition  to  this  dish 
to  stir  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream  into  the  sauce  after  the 
parsnips  are  taken  out ;  boil  up,  and  pour  upon  them. 

Boiled  Sea-kale. 

Tie  up  in  bunches  when  you  have  picked  it  over  care- 
fully, and  lay  in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Put  into  salted 
boiling  water,  and  cook  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  until  ten- 
der. Lay  some  slices  of  buttered  toast  in  the  bottom  of  a 
dish,  clip  the  threads  binding  the  stems  of  the  searkale,  and 

11      . 


2-12  COMMON   SENSE. 

pile  upon  the  toast,  buttering  it  abundantly.     Or,  you  can 
send  around  with  it  a  boat  of  drawn  butter. 

Stewed  Sea-kale. 

Clip  off  the  sterna,  wash  well,  tie  in  neat  bunches,  and 
when  it  has  lain  in  cold  water  an  hour  or  so,  put  into  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water,  slightly  salted.  Boil  fifteen 
minutes,  drain-  well,  clip  the  threads,  and  return  to  the 
saucepan,  with  a  little  rich  gravy  if  you  have  it.  If  not, 
pour  in  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  drawn  in  milk, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  simmer  eight  or  ten  minutes. 

Artichokes. 

Strip  off  the  outer  leaves,  and  cut  the  stalks  close  to 
the  bottom.  Wash  well  and  lay  in  cold  water  two  hours. 
Immerse  in  boiling  water,  the  stalk-ends  uppermost,  with 
an  inverted  plate  upon  them  to  keep  them  down.  Boil  an 
hour  and  a  half,  or  until  very  tender.  Arrange  in  circles 
upon  a  dish,  the  tops  up,  and  pour  drawn  butter  over 
them. 

Summer  Squash  or  Cymbling. 

There  are  many  varieties  of  this  vegetable,  but  the  gen- 
eral rules  for  cooking  them  are  the  same.  Unless  they  are 
extremely  tender,  it  is  best  to  pare  them,  cutting  away  as 
little  as  possible  besides  the  hard  outer  rind.  Take  out 
the  seeds,  when  you  have  quartered  them,  and  lay  the 
pieces  in  cold  water.  Boil  until  tender  throughout.  Drain 
well,  pressing  out  all  the  water ;  mash  soft  and  smooth,  sea- 
soning with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  Do  this  quickly,  that 
you  may  serve  up  hot. 


v£oetable8.  243 

Winter  Squash. 

Pare,  take  out  the  ^eeds,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  stew 
tmtil  soft  and  tender.  Drain,  press  well,  to  rid  it  of  all  the 
water,  and  mash  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  It  will 
take  much  longer  to  cook  than  the  summer  squash,  and  be- 
fore you  put  it  into  hot  water,  should  lie  in  cold  at  least 
two  hours. 

Stewed  Pumpkin. 

Cut  in  two,  extract  the  seeds,  slice,  and  pare.  Cover 
with  cold  water  for  an  hour ;  put  over  the  fire  in  a  pol  of 
boiling  water  and  stew  gently,  stirring  often, -tin til  it  breaks 
to  pieces.  Drain  and  squeeze,  rub  through  a  cullender, 
then  return  to  the  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Stir  rapidly  from  the  bottom 
until  very  hot,  when  dish,  rounding  into  a  mound,  with 
"  dabs  "  of  pepper  on  the  top. 

Baked  Pumpkin. 

Choose  the  richest  pumpkin  you  can  find ;  take  out  the 
seeds,  cut  in  quarters  or  eighths,  pare,  and  slice  lengthwise 
half  an  inch  thick.  Arrange  in  layers — not  more  than  two 
or  three  slices  deep— in  a  shallow  but  broad  baking-dish. 
Put  a  very  little  water  in  the  bottom,  and  bake  very  slowly 
until  not  only  done,  but  dry.  It  requires  a  long  time, 
for  the  heat  should  be  gentle.  Butter  each  strip  on  both 
sides  when  you  dish,  and  eat  hot  with  bread  and  butter  for 
tea. 

I  have  been  assured,  by  people  who  have  tried  it,  that 
this  is  a  palatable  dish  to  those  who  are  fond  of  the  flavor 
of  pumpkin.  I  insert  it  here  upon  their  recommendation 
— ^not  my  own. 


244:  OOMMON   BEN8E. 

Poke  Stalks. 

When  the  young  stalks  are  not  larger  than  a  man's  lit- 
tle finger,  and  show  only  a  tuft  of  leaves  at  top  a  few 
inches  above  ground,  is  the  time  to  gather  them.  They  are 
unfit  for  table  use  when  larger  and  older.  Scrape  the 
stalks,  but  do  not  cut  off  the  leaves.  Lay  in  cold  water, 
with  a  little  salt,  for  two  hours.  Tie  in  bundles,  as  you  do 
asparagus,  put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  cook 
fast  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Lay  buttered  toast  in  the 
bottom  of  a  dish,  untie  the  bundles,  and  pile  the  poke 
evenly  upon  it,  buttering  very  well,  and  sprinkling  with  pep- 
per and  salt.     This  is  a  tolerable  substitute  for  asparagus. 

Mushrooms. 

Imprimis, — ^Have  nothing  to  do  with  them  until  you 
are  an  excellent  judge  between  the  true  and  false.  That 
sounds  somewhat  like  the  advice  of  the  careful  mother  to 
her  son,  touching  the  wisdom  of  never  going  near  the  water 
until  he  learned  how  to  swim — ^but  the  caution  can  hardly 
be  stated  too  strongly.  Not  being  ambitious  of  martyrdom, 
even  in  the  cause  of  gastronomical  enterprise,  especially  if 
the  instrument  is  to  be  a  contemptible,  rank-smelling  fun- 
gus, I  never  eat  or  cook  mushrooms ;  but  I  learned,  years 
ago,  in  hill-side  rambles,  how  to  distinguish  the  real  from 
the  spurious  article.  .  Shun  low,  damp,  shady  spots  in  your 
quest.  The  good  mushrooms  are  most  plenty  in  August 
and  September,  and  spring  up  in  the  open,  simny  fields  or 
commons,  after  low-lying  fogs  or  soaking  dews.  The  top  is 
a  dirty  white, — par  complaisance^  pearl-color, — the  under- 
side pink  or  salmon,  changing  to  russet  or  brown  soon  after 
they  are  gathered.  The  poisonous  sport  all  colors,  and  are 
usually  far  prettier  than  their  virtuous  kindred.  Those 
which  are  dead- white  above  and  below,  as  well  as  the  stalk, 
are  also  to  be  let  alone. 


MU8HBOOHB.  245 

■ 

Cook  a  peeled  white  onion  in  the  pot  with  your  mnsh- 
rooms.  If  it  turn  black,  throw  all  away,  and  be  properly 
thankful  for  your  escape.  It  is  also  deemed  safe  to  reject 
the  mess  of  wild  pottage,  if,  in  stirring  them,  your  silver 
spoon  should  blacken.  But  I  certainly  once  knew  a  lady 
who  did  not  discover  until  hers  were  eaten  and  partially 
digested,  that  the  silver  had  come  to  grief  in  the  discharge 
of  duty.  It  was  very  dark,  and  required  a  deal  of  rubbing 
to  restore  cleanliness  and  polish ;  but  the  poison — if  death 
were,  indeed,  in  the  pot — ^was  slow  in  its  effects,  since  she 
lived  many  years  afber  the  experiment.  It  is  as  well  per- 
haps, though,  not  to  repeat  it  too  often. 

To  re-capitulate. — The  eatable  ones  are  round  when 
they  first  show  their  heads  in  a  critical  world.  As  they 
grow,  the  lower  part  unfolds  and  reveals  a  lining  of  salmon 
fringe,  while  the  stalk  and  top  are  dirty  white.  When  the 
mushroom  is  more  than  twenty-four  hours  old,  or  within  a 
few  hours  after  it  is  gathered,  the  salmon  changes  to  brown. 
The  skin  can  also  be  more  easily  peeled  from  the  edges  than  ' 
in  the  spurious  kinds. 

Stewed  Mushboohs. 

Choose  button  mushrooms  of  uniform  size.  Wipe  clean 
•and  white  with  a  wet  flannel  cloth,  and  cut  off  the  stalks. 
Put  into  a  porcelain  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and 
stew  very  gently  fifteen  minutes.  Salt  to  taste;  add  a 
tablespoonfdl  of  butter,  divided  into  bits  and  rolled  in 
flour.  Boil  three  or  four  minutes;  stir  in  three  table- 
spoonfiils  of  cream  whipped  up  with  an  egg,  stir  two  min- 
utes without  letting  it  boil,  and  serve. 

Or, 

Rub  them  white,  stew  in  water  ten  minutes ;  strain  par- 
tially, and  cover  with  as  much  warm  milk  as  you  have 


246  GOMMON  SEN6E. 

poured  off  water ;  stew  ftye  minutes  in  this ;  salt,  pepper, 
and  add  some  veal  or  chicken  gravy,  or  drawn  butter. 
Thicken  with  a  little  flour  wet  in  cold  milk,  and  a  beaten 

©gg- 

Baked  Mushrooms. 

» 

Take  fresh  ones, — the  size  is  not  very  important, — cut 
off  nearly  all  the  stalks,  and  wipe  off  the  skin  with  wet 
flannel  Arrange  neatly  in  a  pie-dish,  pepper  and  salt, 
sprinkle  a  little  mace  among  them,  and  lay  a  bit  of  butter 
upon  each.  Bake  about  half  an  hour,  basting  now  and 
then  with  butter  and  water,  that  they  may  not  be  too  dry. 
Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they  were  baked,  with  maitr6 
^hdtd  sauce  poured  over  them. 

Bboiled  Mushrooms. 

Peel  the  finest  and  freshest  you  can  get,  score  the  under 
side,  and  cut  the  stems  close.  Put  into  a  deep  dish  and 
anoint  well,  once  and  again,  with  melted  butter.  Salt  and 
pepper,  and  let  them  lie  in  the  butter  an  hour  and  a  half. 
Then  broil  over  a  clear,  hot  fire,  using  an  oyster-gridiron, 
and  turning  it  over  as  one  side  browns.  Serve  hot,  well 
buttered,  pepper  and  salt,  and  squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon- 
juice  upon  each. 

Celery. 

Wash  and  scrape  the  stalks  when  you  have  cut  off  the 
roots.  Cut  off  the  green  leaves  and  reject  the  greenest, 
toughest  stalks.  Betain  the  blanched  leaves  that  grow 
nearest  the  heart.  Keep  in  cold  water  until  you  send  to 
the  table.  Serve  in  a  celery  glass,  and  let  each  guest  dip  in 
salt  for  himself.     {See  Cdery  SaUui,) 


RADISHES — OKRA.  247 

Kadishes. 

A  friend  of  mine,  after  many  and  woful  trials  with  ^'  the 
greatest  plague  of  life,"  engaged  a  supercilious  young  lady 
who  "  only  hired  out  in  the  best  of  families  as  a  professed 
cook."  She  arrived  in  the  afternoon,  and  was  told  that  tea 
would  be  a  simple  affair — bread-and-butter,  cold  meat,  cake, 
and  a  dish  of  radishes,  which  were  brought  in  from  the  gar- 
den as  the  order  was  given.  The  lady  was  summoned  to 
the  pai-lor  at  that  moment,  and  remarked  in  leaving — "  You 
can  prepare  those  now,  Bridget."  Awhile  later  slie  peeped 
into  the  kitchen,  attracted  by  the  odor  of  hot  fat.  *  The 
frying-pan  hissed  on  the  fire,  the  contents  were  a  half-pound 
of  butter,  and  the  "  professional "  stood  at  the  table  with  a 
radish  topped  and  tailed  in  one  hand,  a  knife  in  the  other. 
"  I'm  glad  to  see  ye,"  thus  she  greeted  the  intruder.  "  Is 
it  paled  or  owpaled  ye'll  have  them  radishes  ?  Some  of  the 
quality  likes  'em  fried  wid  the  skins  on — some  widout.  I 
thought  I'd  wait  and  ask  yerself." 

My  readers  can  exercise  their  own  choice  in  the  matter 
of  peeling,  putting  the  frying  out  of  the  question.  Wash 
and  lay  them  in  ice-water  so  soon  as  they  are  gathered. 
Cut  off  the  tops  when  your  breakfajst  or  supper  is  ready, 
leaving  about  an  inch  of  the  stalks  on ;  scrape  off  the  skin 
if  you  choose,  but  the  red  ones  are  prettier  if  you  do  not ; 
arrange  in  a  tall  glass  or  a  round  glass  saucer,  the  stalks  out- 
side, the  points  meeting  in  the  centre;  lay  cracked  ice 
among  them  and  send  to  table.  Scrape  and  quarter  the 
large  white  ones. 

Good  radishes  are  crisp  to  the  teeth,  look  cool,  and  taste 
hot. 

Okra. 

Boil  the  young  pods,  in  enough  salted  hot  water  to 
cover  them,  until  tender.     Drain  thoroughly,  and  when 


248  COMMON  SENSE. 

di&hed  pour  over  them  a  sauce  of  three  or  four  spoonfuls 
melted  (not  drawn)  butter,  a  tablcspoonful  of  vinegar,  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste.  Heat  to  boiling  before  covering  the 
okras  with  it. 

Boiled  Hominy. 

The  large  kind,  made  of  cracked,  not  ground  corn,  is 
erroneously  termed  '*  samp  "  by  Northern  grocers.  This  is 
the  Indian  name  for  the  fine-gi*ained.  To  avoid  confusion, 
we  will  call  the  one  large,  the  other  small.  Soak  the  large 
over  night  in  cold  water.  Next  day  put  it  into  a  pot 
witl\  at  least  two  quarts  of  water  to  a  quart  of  the  hominy, 
and  boil  slowly  three  hours,  or  until  it  is  soft.  Drain  in  a 
cullender,  heap  in  a  root-dish,  and  stir  in  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt. 

Soak  the  small  hominy  in  the  same  way,  and  boil  in  as 
much  water,  slowly,  stirring  very  often,  almost  constantly 
at  the  last.  It  should  be  as  thick  as  mush,  and  is  generally 
eaten  at  breakfast  with  sugar,  cream,  and  nutmeg.  It  is  a 
good  and  exceedingly  wholesome  dish,  especially  for  chil- 
dren. The  water  in  which  it  is  boiled  should  be  slightly 
salt.  If  soaked  in  warm  water,  and  the  same  be  changed 
once  or  twice  for  warmer,  it  will  boil  soft  in  an  hour.  Boil 
In  the  last  water. 

Fried  Hominy. 

If  large,  put  a  good  lump  of  butter  or  dripping  in  the 
frying-pan,  and  heat.  Turn  in  some  cold  boiled  hominy, 
and  cook  until  the  under-^de  is  browned.  Place  a  dish  up- 
side-down on  the  frying-pan  and  upset  the  latter,  that  the 
brown  crust  may  be  uppermost. 

Eat  with  meat. 

Cut  the  small  hominy  in  slices  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or 
drippings.  Or,  moisten  to  a  soft  paste  with  milk ;  beat  in 
some  melted  butter,  bind  with  a  beaten  egg,  form  into 


HOMINY   CSOQUETTES — ^BAKED   HOMINY.  249 

round  cakes  with  your  hands,* dredge  with  flour  and  fry  a 
light  brown. 

Hominy  Croquettes.  4* 

To  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  hominy  (small-grained)  add  a 
tablespoonfvQ  melted  butter  and  stir  hard,  moistening,  by 
degrees,  with  a  cupful  of  milk,  beating  to  a  soft  light  paste. 
Put  in  a  teaspoonfiil  of  white  sugar,  and  lastly,  a  well- 
beaten  egg.  KoU  into  oval  balls  with  floured  hands,  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Very  good  I 

Baked  Hominy.  >|* 

To  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  hominy  (small  kind)  allow 
two  cups  of  milk,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  white  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  three  eggs.  Beat 
the  eggs  very  light,  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Work 
the  yolks  first  into  the  hominy,  alternately  with  the  melted 
butter.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  put  in  sugar  and  salt^ 
and  go  on  beating  while  you  soften  the  batter  gradually 
with  the  milk.  Be  careful  to  leave  no  lumps  in  the  hominy. 
Lastly  stir  in  the  whites,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding- 
dish  until  light,  firm,  and  delicately  browned. 

This  can  be  eaten  as  a  dessert,  but  it  is  a  delightful 
vegetable,  and  the  best  substitute  that  can  be  devised  for 
green  com  pudding. 

Hige  Croquettes.  4* 

Half  a  cup  of  rice. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

A  little  grated  lemon-peel. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
A  saltspoonful  salt. 
11* 


250  GOHMON   8EN8E. 

Soak  the  rice  three  hours  in  warm  water  enough  to 
cover  it.  Draiu  almost  dry,  and  pour  in  the  milk.  Stew 
in  a  farina-kettle,  or  one  saucepan  set  in  another  of  hot 
water,  until  the  rice  is  very  tender.  Add  the  sugar,  butter 
and  salt,  and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Whisk  the  eggs  to  a 
froth,  and  add  cautiously,  taking  the  saucepan  from  the  fire 
while  you  whip  them  into  the  mixture.  Ketum  to  the 
range  or  stove,  and  stir  while  they  thicken,  not  allowing 
them  to  boil.  Bemove  the  saucepan,  and  add  the  grated 
lemon-peel ;  then  turn  out  upon  a  well-greased  dish  to 
cool.  When  cold  and  stiff,  flour  your  hands  and  roll  into 
oval  or  pear-shaped  balls ;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  fine 
cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in  nice  lard. 

Or, 

You  can  make  a  plainer  dish  of  cold  boiled  rice,  mois- 
tened with  milk  and  a  little  melted  butter  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Add  sugar  and  salt,  bind  with  two  or  three  beaten 
eggs ;  make  into  cakes  or  balls,  and  proceed  as  directed 
above.  Eat  hot  with  roast  or  boiled  fowls.  If  you  shape 
like  a  pear,  stick  a  clove  in  the  small  end  for  the  stem. 

Boiled  Rice. 

Pick  over  carefully  and  wash  in  two  waters,  letting  it 
stand  in  the  last  until  you  are  ready  to  boil.  Have  ready 
some  boiling  water  slightly  salted,  and  put  in  the  rice. 
Boil  it  just  twenty  minutes,  and  do  not  put  a  spoon  in  it, 
but  shake  up  hard  and  often,  holding  the  cover  on  with  the 
other  hand.  When  done,  drain  off  the  water,  and  set  the 
sauce-pan  imcovered  upon  the  range,  where  the  rice  will 
dry,  i^t  bum,  for  five  minutes. 

Eat  with  boiled  mutton  or  fowls. 


MAOABONL  251 

Baked  Macaboni.  4^ 

Break  half  a  pound  of  pipe  macaroni  in  pieces  an  inch 
long,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  slightly 
salted.  Stew  gently  twenty  minutes.  It  should  be  soft, 
but  not  broken  or  split.  Drain  well  and  put  a  layer  in  the 
bottom  of  a  buttered  pie  or  pudding-dish  ;  upon  this  grate 
some  mild,  rich  cheese,  and  scatter  over  it  some  bits  of 
butter.  Spread  upon  the  cheese  more  macaroni,  and  fill 
the  dish  in  this  order,  having  macaroni  at  the  top,  but- 
tered well,  without  the  cheese.  Add  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
cream  or  milk,  and  a  very  little  salt.  Bake  covered  half 
an  hour,  then  brown  nicely,  and  serve  in  the  bake-dish. 

Stewed  Macakoni — Italian  Style. 

Break  the  macaroni  into  inch  lengths,  and  stew  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  tender.  Prepare  the  sauce  beforehand. 
Cut  half  a  pound  of  beef  into  strips  and  stew  half  an  hour. 
The  water  should  be  cold  when  the  meat  is  put  in.  At  the 
end  of  that  time,  add  a  minced  onion  and  a  pint  of  toma- 
toes peeled  and  sliced.  Boil  for  an  hour,  and  strain 
through  a  cullender  when  you  have  taken  out  the  meat. 
The  sauce  should  be  well  boiled  down  by  this  time.  You 
do  not  want  more  than  a  pint  for  a  large  dish  of  macaroni. 
Ketum  the  liquid  to  the  saucepan,  add  a  good  piece  of 
butter,  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stew  until  you  are  ready 
to  dish  the  macaronL  Drain  this  well,  sprinkle  lightly 
with  salt,  and  heap  upon  a  chafing-dish  or  in  a  root-dish. 
Four  the  tomato  sauce  over  it ;  cover  and  let  it  stand  in  a 
warm  place  ten  minutes  before  sending  to  table.  Send 
around  grated  cheese  with  it.  The  Italians  serve  the  meat 
also  in  a  separate  dish  as  a  ragoCtt,  adding  some  of  the  sauce, 
highly  seasoned  with  pepper  and  other  spices. 


252  OOMMON  SENSE. 

Macaboni  a  la  Cr^me.  4^ 

Cook  the  macaroni  ten  minutes  in  boiling  water. 
Drain  this  off,  and  add  a  cupful  of  milk,  with  a  little  salt. 
Stew  until  tender.  In  another  saucepan  heat  a  cup  of 
milk  to  boiling,  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  stir  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  lastly,  a  beaten  egg.  When 
this  thickens,  pour  over  the  macaroni  after  it  is  dished. 

ThiB  is  a  simple  and  good  dessert,  eaten  with  butter, 
sugar,  and  nutmeg,  or  sweet  sauce.  If  set  on  with  meat, 
grate,  cheese  thickly  over  it,  or  send  around  a  saucer  of 
grated  cheese  with  it. 

Egos. 

To  guess  (I  do  not  say  determine)  whether  an  egg  is 
good,  shut  one  eye ;  firame  the  egg  in  the  hollow  of  the 
hand,  telescope-wise,  and  look  at  the  sun  through  it  with 
the  open  eye.  If  you  can  distinctly  trace  the  outline 
of  the  yolk  and  the  white  looks  clear  around  it,  the  chances 
are  in  favor  of  the  egg  and  the  buyer.  Or,  shake  it  gently 
at  your  ear.  If  addled,  it  will  gurgle  like  water ;  if  there 
is  a  chicken  inside,  you  may  distinguish  a  slight  ^'  thud '' 
against  the  sides  of  the  egg.  Or,  still  again,  you  may  try 
eggs  from  your  own  poultry-yard  by  putting  them  into  a 
pan  of  cold  water.  The  freshest  sink  first.  Those  that 
float  are  questionable — generally  worse. 

The  best  plan  is  to  break  them.  In  making  cake,  or 
anything  that  requires  more  than  one,  break  each  over  a 
saucer,  that  it  may  be  alone  in  its  condemnation,  if  bad. 
Ileject  doubtful  ones  without  hesitation.  Yield  implicit 
trust,  or  none  at  all. 

Keep  eggs  in  a  cool,  not  cold  place.  Pack  in  bran  or 
salt,  with  the  small  end  do'^fuward,  if  you  wish  to  use  within 
two  or  three  weeks ;  and  furthermore,  take  the  precaution 
to  grease  them  well  with  linseed  oil,  or  wash  them  over  with 


EGOS.  253 

a  weak  solution  of  gum  tragacanth  or  varnish.  This  ex- 
cludes the  air.  Another  way  is  to  make  some  pretty  sti*ong 
lime-water,  allowing  a  pound  of  lime  to  a  gallon  of  boiling 
water.  When  perfectly  cold,  fill  a  large  jar  with  it  in 
which  you  have  packed  the  eggs,  small  end  downward ;  lay 
a  light  saucer  upon  the  top  to  keep  them  under  water,  and 
keep  in  a  cool  place.  Renew  the  lime-water  every  three 
weeks.     You  may  add  an  ounce  of  saltpetre  to  it. 

Eggs  for  boiling  may  be  ^^  canned  "  as  follows :  So  soon 
as  they  are  brought  in  from  the  nests,  put  two  or  three 
dozen  at  a  time  in  a  deep  pan ;  pour  scalding  water  over 
them ;  let  it  stand  thirty  seconds,  and  turn  it  all  off.  Cover 
immediately  with  more  scalding  water,  and  repeat  the  pro- 
cess yet  the  third  time.  Wipe  dry,  and  pack  in  bran  or 
salt  when  they  cool.  Tliis  hardens  the  albumen  into  an 
air-tight  case  for  the  yolk.  Of  course,  you  cannot  use  these 
eggs  for  cake  or  syllabubs,  or  anything  that  is  prepared 
with  whipped  eggs.     Pack  with  the  small  end  down. 

BoiLEa>  Eoos. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon, 
not  to  break  or  crack  them.  Only  a  slovenly  cook,  or  a 
careless  one,  drops  them  in  with  her  fingers.  Boil  steadily 
three  minutes,  if  you  want  them  soft — ten,  if  hard. 

Another  way  is  to  put  them  on  in  cold  water,  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  which  will  be  in  ten  minutes.  The  inside, 
white  and  yolk,  will  be  then  of  the  consistency  of  custard. 
Many  gourmands  like  them  best  thus.  Still  another  is  to 
put  them  in  one  of  the  silver  egg-boilers  used  on  the  break- 
fast-table (a  covered  bowl  will  do  as  well) ;  cover  them 
with  boiling  water,  and  let  them  stand  three  minutes. 
Pour  this  off,  and  refill  with  more,  also  boiling  hot,  and 
leave  them  in  it  five  minutes  longer.  Wrap  in  a  napkin 
in  a  deep  dish,  if  you  have  not  a  regular  egg-dish. 


254  COMMON  6£N8£. 

Dropped  or  Poached  Eggs. 

Strain  some  boiling  water  into  a  frying-pan,  which  must 
also  be  perfectly  clean.  The  least  impurity  will  mar  the 
whiteness  of  the  eggs.  When  the  water  boils,  break  the 
eggs  separately  into  a  saucer.  Take  the  firying-pan  off,  and 
slip  the  eggs,  one  by  one,  carefully  upon  the  surface.  When 
all  ai'e  in,  put  back  over  the  fire  and  boil  gently  three  min- 
utes. Take  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  drain,  and  lay 
upon  slices  of  buttered  toast  in  a  hot  dish.  Garnish  with 
parsley,  and  dust  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Poached  Eggs  A  la  CRftifE.  4^ 

Nearly  fill  a  dean  frying-pan  with  strained  water  boil- 
ing-hot ;  strain  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  through  double 
muslin,  and  add  to  the  water  with  a  little  salt.  Slip  your 
eggs  from  the  saucer  upon  the  top  of  the  water  (first  tak- 
ing the  pan  from  the  fire).  Boil  three  minutes  and  a  half, 
drain,  and  lay  on  buttered  toast  in  a  hot  dish.  Turn  the 
water  firom  the  pan  and  pour  in  half  a  cupful  of  ci-eam  or 
milk.  If  you  use  the  latter,  thicken  with  a  very  little 
(om-><arch.  Let  it  heat  to  a  boil,  stinging  to  prevent  burn- 
ing, and  add  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  some  pepper  and 
salt.  Boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the  eggs.  A  better  way 
still  is  to  heat  the  milk  in  a  separate  saucepan,  that  thp 
eggs  may  not  have  to  stand.  A  little  broth  improves  the 
sauce. 

Ham  and  Eggs. 

Fry  the  eggs  in  a  little  very  nice  salted  lard ;  drain  off 
every  drop  of  grease,  and  lay  them  upon  a  hot  dish,  with 
neat  slices  of  fried  ham  around  the  edges,  half  the  size  of 
the  slice  as  first  carved  from  the  ham.  .  Trim  off  the  rough 
edges  of  the  eggs,  and  cut  the  ham  evenly  in  oblong  pieces, 
before  dishing.     Garnish  with  parsley. 


EGOS.  255 

4 

Fried  Eoos. 

Melt  some  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  hisses, 
drop  in  the  eggs  carefully.  Fry  three  minutes ;  dust  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  transfer  to  a  hot  dish. 

Fricasseed  Eoos.  4^ 

Boil  the  eggs  hard,  cut  in  half  crosswise,  and  take  out 
the  yolks.  Chop  these  fine,  or  rub  to  a  paste,  with  a  little 
ground  tongue  or  ham  or  cold  fowl,  some  minced  parsley, 
some  melted  butter,  and  a  very  little  made  mustard.  Work 
well  together  and  fill  the  whites  with  it,  setting  them  close 
together  in  a  deep  covered  dish,  the  open  ends  up.  Have 
ready  some  veal  gravy  or  chicken  broth ;  heat  to  boiling  in 
a  saucepan  with  a  half  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  salt, 
pepper,  and  lastly  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  to  a  cup 
of  broth.  Boil  up;  pour  smoking  hot  over  the  eggs,  let 
them  stand  five  minutes,  closely  covered,  and  send  to  table. 

This  is  not  an  expensive  dish.  Eggs  are  always  a 
cheaper  breakfast-dish  for  a  small  family  than  meat,  even 
at  fifty  cents  a  dozen.  Six  will  make  a  nice  quantity  of 
the  fricassee, .  and  it  is  a  delicious  relish.  Always  drop 
hard-boiled  eggs  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  they  are  done, 
to  prevent  the  yolks  from  turning  black. 

Breaded'  Egos.  4^ 

Boil  hard,  and  cut  in  round  thick  slices.  Pepper  and 
salt ;  dip  each  in  beaten  raw  egg,  then  in  fine  bread-crumbs 
or  powdered  cracker,  and  fry  in  nice  dripping  or  butter, 
hissing  hot.  Drain  off  every  drop  of  grease,  and  serve  on 
a  hot  dish  for  breakfast,  with  sauce,  like  that  for  Mcasseed 
eggs,  poured  over  them. 


256  COMMON  SENSE. 


Baked  Eggs. 


Break  six  or  seven  eggs  into  a  buttered  dish,  taking 
care  that  each  is  whole,  and  does  not  encroach  upon  the 
others  so  much  as  to  mix  or  disturb  the  yolks.  Sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  a  bit  of  butter  upon  each. 
Put  into  an  oven  and  bake  until  the  whites  are  well  set. 
Serve  very  hot,  with  rounds  of  buttered  toast^  or  sand- 
wiches. 

Scrambled  Eggs.  4^ 

Put  a  good  piece  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it 
is  hot  drop  in  the  eggs,  which  should  be  broken  whole  into 
a  bowl.  Stir  in  with  them  a  little  chopped  parsley,  some 
pepper  and  salt,  and  keep  stirring  to  and  fro,  up  and  down, 
without  cessation,  for  three  minutes.  Turn  out  at  once 
into  a  hot  dish,  or  upon  buttered  toast,  and  eat  without 
delay. 

Chinese  Bird's-Nbst  of  Egos. 

Make  a  white  sauce  as  follows :  Stew  half  a  pound  of 
lean  veal,  cut  into  strips,  with  a  large  sprig  of  parsley,  in  a 
quart  of  water,  until  the  meat  is  in  rags,  and  the  liquor 
reduced  one-half.  Stiuin  through  tarlatan  or  lace,  and 
return  to  the  saucepan  with  half  a  cupfiil  of  milk.  When 
it  boils,  thicken  with  a  little  rice  or  wheat  fldur,  season 
with  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Set  in  the  comer  to  keep  hot.  Have  ready  six,  or  eight, 
or  ten  hard-boiled  eggs.  Take  out  the  yolks  carefully,  and 
cut  the  whites  into  thin  shreds.  Pile  the  yolks  in  the  cen- 
tre of  a  round,  shallow  dish,  arrange  the  shreds  of  white 
about  them  in  the  shape  of  a  birdVnest ;  give  a  final  stir 
to  the  sauce,  and  pour  carefully  over  the  eggs.  It  should 
not  rise  higher  in  the  dish  than  half  way  to  the  top  of  the 
nest,  when  it  flows  down  to  its  leveL  Garnish  with  pars- 
ley. 


EGGS.  257 

Scalloped  Egos.  4^ 

Make  a  force-meat  of  chopped  ham — ground  is  better — 
fine  bread-crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  minced  parsley,  and 
some  melted  butter.  Moisten  with  milk  to  a  soft  paste, 
and  half  fill  some  pattj-pans  or  scallop-shells  with  the  mix- 
ture. Break  an  egg  carefully  upon  the  top  of  each,  dust 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  sift  some  very  finely  powdered 
cracker  over  all.  Set  in  the  oven,  and  bake  until  the  eggs 
are  weU  set — about  eight  minutes.  Eat  hot.  They  are 
very  nice.     You  can  substitute  ground  tongue  for  the  ham. 

Poached  Eggs,  with  Sauce.   4^ 

Make  the  sauce  by  putting  half  a  cupful  of  hot  water 
in  a  saucepan,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  veal  or  chicken  broth  (strained),  pepper, 
salt,  maoe,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  a  little 
minced  parsley.  Boil  slowly  ten  minutes,  and  stir  in  a 
well-whipped  egg  carefully,  lest  it  should  curdle.  Have 
ready  some  poached  eggs  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  them. 

Eggs  upon  Toast.  4* 

Put  a  good  lump  of  butter  into  the  fiying-pan.  When 
it  is  hot,  stir  in  four  or  five  well-beaten  eggs,  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  parsley.  Stir  and  toss  for  three  minutes. 
Have  ready  to  your  hand  some  slices  of  buttered  toast  (cut 
round  with  a  tin  cake-cutter  before  they  are  toasted)  ; 
spread  thickly  with  ground  or  minced  tongue,  chicken,  or 
ham.  Heap  the  stirred  egg  upon  these  in  mounds,  and  set 
in  a  hot  dish  garnished  with  parsley  and  pickled  beets. 

Eggs  au  Lit  {in  bed).  4* 

Mince  some  cold  fowl — chicken,  turkey,  or  duck  (or 
some  cold  boiled  veal  and  ham  in  equal  quantities) — very 


258  COMMON   6ENSE. 

fine,  and  rub  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  adding  by  degrees 
some  melted  butter,  pepper,  salt,  minced  parsley,  and  two 
beaten  eggs.  Warm  in  a  frying-pan  when  it  is  well  mixed, 
stirring  in  a  little  hot  water  should  it  dry  too  fast.  Cook 
five  minutes,  stirring  to  keep  it  from  scorching  or  brown- 
ing. Form,  on  a  hot  platter  or  flat  dish,  into  a  mound,  fiat 
on  top,  with  a  ridge  of  the  mixture  i-unning  all  around.  It 
is  easily  moulded  with  a  broad-bladed  knife.  In  the  dish 
thus  formed,  on  the  top  of  the  mince-meat,  lay  as  many 
poached  eggs  as  it  will  hold,  sprinkling  them  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Arrange  triangles  of  buttered  toast  in  such 
order,  at  the  base  of  the  mound,  that  they  shall  make  a 
pointed  wall  against  it. 

Devilled  Eggs. 

Boil  six  or  eight  eggs  hard ;  leave  in  cold  water  until 
they  are  cold ;  cut  in  halves,  slicing  a  bit  ofi*  the  bottoms 
to  make  them  stand  upright,  h  la  Columbus.  Extract  the 
yolks,  and  rub  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  very  little  melted 
butter,  some  cayenne  pepper,  a  touch  of  mustard,  and  just 
a  dash  of  vinegar.  FDl  the  hollowed  whites  with  this,  and 
send  to  table  upon  a  bed  of  chopped  cresses,  seasoned  with 
pepper,  salt,  vinegar,  and  a  little  sugar.  The  salad  should 
be  two  inches  thick,  and  an  egg  be  served  with  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  it.  You  may  use  lettuce  or  white  cab- 
bage instead  of  cresses. 

Egg-Baskets.  4^ 

Make  these  for  breakfast  the  day  after  you  have  had 
roast  chicken,  duck,  or  turkey  for  dinner.  Boil  six  eggs 
hard,  cut  neatly  in  half  and  extract  the  yolks.  Rub  these 
to  a  paste  with  some  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  set  aside.     Found  the  minced  meat  of  the  cold  fowl 


EQGS.  259 

fine  in  the  same  manner  and  mix  with  the  egg-paste,  moist- 
ening with  melted  butter  as  yon  proceed,  or  with  a  little 
gravy,  if  you  have  it  to  spare.  Cut  off  a  slice  from  the 
bottoms  of  the  hollowed  whites  of  the  egg,  to  make  them 
stand ;  fill  with  the  paste ;  arrange  close  together  upon  a 
flat  dish,  and  pour  over  them  the  gravy  left  from  yester- 
day's roast,  heated  boiling  hot,  and  mellowed  by  a  few 
spoonfub  of  cream  or  rich  milk. 

Omelette  (plain),  4* 

Beat  six  eggs  very  light,  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  that 
will  stand  alone,  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  thick  batter.  Add  to 
the  yolks  a  small  cupful  of  milk,  pepper  and  salt,  lastly  stir 
in  the  whites  lightly.  Have  ready  in  a  hot  frying-pan  a  good 
lump  of  butter.  When  it  hisses,  pour  in  your  mixture  gen- 
tly and  set  over  a  clear  fire.  It  should  cook  in  ten  minutes 
at  most.  Do  not  stir,  but  contrive,  as  the  eggs  '^  set,"  to 
slip  a  broad-bladed  knife  under  the  omelette  to  guard  against 
burning  at  the  bottom.  The  instant  **  hiss  "  of  the  butter 
as  it  flows  to  the  hottest  part  of  the  pan  will  prove  the  wis- 
dom and  efficacy  of  the  precaution.  If  your  oven  is  hot, 
you  may  put  the  frying-pan  in  it  as  soon  as  the  middle  of 
the  omelette  is  set.  When  done,  lay  a  hot  dish  bottom  up- 
ward on  the  top  of  the  pan,  and  dexterously  upset  the  latter 
to  bring  the  browned  side  of  the  omelette  uppermost.  Eat 
soon,  or  it  will  fall. 

I  know  these  directions  to  be  worthy  of  note.  I  have 
never  seen  lighter  or  better  omelettes  anywhere  than  in 
households  where  these  have  been  the  rule  for  years  in  the 
manufacture  of  this  simple  and  delightful  article  of  food. 

Omelette  with  Ham,  Tongue,  or  Chicken.  4^ 

Make  precisely  as  above ;  but  when  it  is  done,  scatter 
thickly  over  the  surface  some  minced  ham,  tongue,  or  sea- 


260  COMMON   BENBE. 

Boned  chicken,  slip  your  broad  knife  under  one  side  of  the 
omelette  ajid  double  in  half,  enclosing  the  meat.  Then  up- 
set the  frying-pan  upon  a  hot  dish. 

Or, 

You  can  stir  the  minced  meat  into  the  omelette  after 
all  the  ingredients  are  put  together,  adding,  if  you  like, 
some  chopped  parsley. 

Cauliflower  Omelette. 

Chop  some  cold  cauliflower  Tery  fine,  and  mix  in  when 
your  omelette  is  ready  to  go  into  the  pan.  Season  highly 
with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt. 

Asparagus  Omelette 

Is  made  of  the  tops  only,  minced  and  seasoned,  and  stirred 
in  as  is  the  cauliflower.  Tomato  omelette  has  stewed 
tomato  spread  over  the  surface,  and  is  then  doubled  in 
half. 

EOO-BALLS  FOR   SoUP.   4^ 

Hub  the  yolks  of  three  or  four  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  a  very  little  melted  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt.  To  these  add  two  raw  ones,  beaten  light,  and  enough 
flour  to  hold  the  paste  together.  Make  into  balls  with 
floured  hands  and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  just  before  your 
soup  comes  off,  when  put  in  carefully  and  boil  one  minute. 

Omelette  aux  Fines  Herbes. 

After  the  yolks  and  whites  are  mixed  together  with  the 
milk,  stir  in,  with  two  or  three  strokes  of  the  spoon  or 
whisk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  green  thjone, 
and  sweet  maijoram,  with  pepper  and  salt.     F17  instantly. 


SWEET  OMELETTES.  261 

Cheese  Omelette. 

Grate  some  rich  old  cheese,  and  having  mixed  the  ome- 
lette as  usual,  stir  in  the  cheese  with  a  swift  turn  or  two 
of  the  whisk,  and  at  the  same  time  some  cho{>ped  parsley 
and  thyme.  If  you  beat  long  the  cheese  will  separate  the 
milk  from  the  eggs.     Cook  at  once. 

Sweet  Omelettes. 

OmdeUe  /SouJlee—(IfVied). 

6  eggs. 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar  (powdered). 

1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Add  the  sugar 
to  the  yolks,  a  little  at  a  time,  beating  very  thoroughly, 
until  they  are  smooth  and  thick.  The  whites  should  stand 
alone.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan, 
heat  to  boiling,  and  when  you  have  added  the  vanilla  to 
the  omelette,  pour  it  in  and  cook  very  quickly,  as  you 
would  a  plain  one.  Blip  the  knife  frequently  under  it,  to 
loosen  from  the  sides  and  bottom.  It  is  more  apt  to  scorch 
than  an  omelette  without  sugar.  Turn  out  upon  a  very 
hot  dish,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  top,  and  serve  in- 
stantly, or  it  will  fall  and  become  heavy. 

Omelette  Soufflee — (Baked), 

6  eggs. 

6  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar. 

Juice  of  a  lemon  and  half  the  peel,  grated. 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately  and  very  well.  Add 
to  the  yolks  by  degrees  the  powdei*ed  sugar,  and  beat  until 
it  ceases  to  froth,  and  is  thick  and  smooth.     The  whites 


262  COMMON   8EN8E. 

should  be  stiff  enough  to  cut  with  a  knife.  Stir  together 
lightly  with  the  seasoning,  pour  into  a  well-buttered  dLsh, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  five  or  six  minutes.  The  dish 
should  be  warmed  when  it  is  buttered,  not  to  chill  the 
eggs.  Send  around  with  a  spoon,  and  let  each  one  help 
himself  before  it  can  fall. 

Apple  Omelette,  tft 

6  large  pippins. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

3  eggs. 

5  or  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Nutmeg  to  taste. 

1  teaspoonful  rosewater. 

Stew  the  apples,  when  you  have  pared  and  cored  them, 
as  for  apple-sauce.  Beat  them  very  smooth  while  hot,  ad- 
ding the  butter,  sugai*,  and  nutmeg.  When  perfectly  cold, 
put  with  the  eggs,  which  should  be  whipped  light,  yolks 
and  whites  sepai-ately.  Put  in  the  yolks  first,  then  the 
rosewater,  lastly  the  whites,  and  pour  into  a  deep  bake- 
dish,  which  has  been  warmed  and  buttered.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  it  is  delicately  browned.  Eat  warm 
— not  hot — for  tea,  with  Graham  bread.  It  is  better  for 
children — I  say  nothing  of  their  elders — than  cake  and  pre- 
serves. 

Omelette  with  Jelly. 

Currant  or  other  tart  jelly. 

Five  eggs. 

4  tablespoonfuls  cream,  or  the  same  of  milk,  thick- 
ened with  a  teaspoonful  of  rice-flour  or  arrow- 
root. 

2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  bitter  almond  or  vanilla  flavoring. 


MILK,  BUTTER,   CHEESE,    ETC.  263 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately,  adding  to  the  latter 
the  sugar  and  milk  after  they  are  thick  and  smooth.  Kext, 
chop  in  the  seasoning ;  lastly,  stir  in  the  whites  with  a  few 
swift  strokes.  Put  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  in  the  fry- 
ing-pan, and,  when  it  is  hot,  pour  in  the  omelette.  Spread 
upon  it  when  done,  which  will  be  in  a  very  few  minutes, 
some  nice  jelly.  Take  the  pan  from  the  fire  to  do  this, 
spread  quickly,  slip  your  knife  or  tin  spatula  under  one- 
half  of  the  omelette,  and  double  it  over.  Turn  over  on  a 
hot  platter,  sift  powdered  sugar  upon  it,  and  eat  at  once. 

Milk,  Butter,  Cheese,  etc. 

A  cool  cellar  is  the  best  place  in  which  to  keep  milk, 
if  you  have  no  dairy  or  milk-room.  Strain  it  into  broad 
shallow  pans,  which  are  lukewarm  fronf  recent  scalding. 
You  can  get  them  made  in  one  piece,  with  no  seams  in 
which  sour  cream  or  dirt  may  lurk  unsuspected.  Set  upon 
swing  shelves,  to  avoid  the  possibilities  of  drowned  mice, 
and  keep  the  cellar  dark  to  save  it  from  flies.  In  twelve 
hours  skim  for  the  table,  and,  unless  you  have  need  of  the 
milk,  let  it  stand  twelve  hours  more  for  the  second  rising 
of  cream.  Put  this  into  the  stone  jar  or  crock  in  which 
the  cream  is  kept  for  churning.  Even  in  butter-making,  I 
have  found  it  a  good  plan  to  take  off  at  night  the  cream 
clean  from  the  morning  churning,  instead  of  letting  it  stand 
twenty-four  houra,  as  is  the  usual  custom.  The  ^'  second 
rising ''  will  repay  one  for  the  additional  trouble.  Chum 
as  soon  as  convenient  after  the  cream  "  loppers  "  or  thick- 
ens. If  it  stand  too  long,  it  becomes  bitter  or  musty.  The 
chum  should  be  well  scalded  and  aired  between  the  churn- 
ings.  Scrupulous  cleanliness  should  be  the  unbending  rule 
of  dairy  arrangements.  All  strongly-flavored  substances 
must  be  kept  from  the  neighborhood  of  milk  and  butter. 
They  are  ready  absorbents,  and  when  they  contract  odor  or 


264  COMMON  SENSE. 

taste,  never  get  rid  of  it.  Have  earthen  and  tin  milk-ves- 
selSy  and  never  allow  them  to  be  put  to  any  other  use. 

Scald  the  chum,  and  cool  with  ice  or  spring  water; 
pour  in  the  thick  cream.  Chum  rather  fast,  until  the  but- 
ter-flakes, left  by  the  dasher  upon  the  top,  show  that  the 
end  to  be  gained  is  near — then  more  slowly.  The  motion 
should  always  be  regular.  In  warm  weather  pour  a  little 
cold  water  into  the  chum,  should  the  butter  come  slowly. 
Take  it  up  with  the  perforated  dasher,  turning  it  dexter- 
ously just  below  the  surface  of  the  butter-milk,  to  catch 
every  stray  bit.  Have  ready  some  clean,  very  cold  water, 
in  a  deep  wooden  tray,  and  into  this  plunge  the  dasher 
when  you  draw  it  from  the  chum.  The  butter  will  float 
oflf,  leaving  the  dasher  free.  Having  collected  every  par- 
ticle, gather  behmd  a  wooden  butter-shovel  and  drain  off 
the  water,  squeezing  and  pressing  the  butter  with  the  shovel. 
Set  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour  to  harden — a  necessary  meas- 
ure in  summer — then  work  and  knead  it  with  a  wooden  ladle 
until  not  another  drop  of  water  exudes,  and  the  butter  is  like 
yellow  marble  in  polish  and  closeness  of  pores.  When  you 
have  worked  out  the  butter-milk,  add  by  degrees  fine  salt, 
in  the  proportion  of  a  dessertspoonful  to  every  pound. 
Then  set  aside  for  some  hours,  alvxiys  in  a  cool  place.  The 
last  working  is  a  slight  affair,  comparatively.  Still  using 
the  paddle,  and  never,  from  beginning  to  end  of  the  opera- 
tion, touching  with  your  hands,  mould  into  rolls  or  pound 
**  pats."  Mark  with  grooves  or  checkers  with  the  ladle, 
or  stamp  with  a  print.  Wrap  each  roll  in  a  clean  wet 
linen  cloth,  which  has  no  touch  of  soap  or  starch  about  it, 
and  pack  in  a  stone  jar,  sprinkling  a  little  salt  between  the 
layers. 

If  you  wish  to  keep  it  a  long  time,  work  with  especial 
care,  and  pack  down  hard  in  a  perfectly  clean  stone  jar. 
Do  not,  above  all  things,  take  one  that  has  ever  been  used 


i 


MILK,  BTJTrEE,   CHEESE,   ETC.  265 

for  pickles.  You  may  not  detect  the  faintest  odor  linger- 
ing about  it,  but  the  butter  will,  and  absorb  it,  too.  Some 
cover  the  butter  with  strong  brine,  but  a  better  way  is  to 
press  a  £aie  linen  cloth  closely  to  the  surface,  and  cover 
this  with  a  thick  layer  of  clean  fine  salt.  Set  in  a  cool, 
dry  place,  and  keep  the  cloth  over  it  all  the  time ;  also  a 
tightly-fitting  lid.  When  you  begin  to  use  it,  take  out 
enough  to  last  a  week,  and  re-cover.  If  you  admit  the  air 
every  day,  it  is  apt  to  grow  strong.  A  pretty  plate  of  but- 
ter for  the  table  is  made  of  balls  half  the  size  of  an  egg, 
rolled  in  the  little  fiuted  paddles  sold  for  the  purpose. 

Bonny-Clabber,  or  Lopfered  Milk.  9^ 

Set  a  china  or  glass  dish  of  skimmed  milk  away  in  a 
warm  place,  covered.  When  it  turns — i.  *«.,  becomes  a 
smooth,  firm,  but  not  tough  cake,  like  blanc-mange — serve 
in  the  same  dish.  Cut  out  carefully  with  a  large  spoon, 
and  put  in  saucers,  with  cream,  powdered  sugar,  and  nut- 
meg to  taste.  It  is  better,  if  set  on  the  ice  for  an  hour  be- 
fore it  is  brought  to  table.  Do  not  let  it  stand  until  the 
whey  separates  from  the  curd. 

Few  people  know  how  delicious  this  healthful  and  cheap 
dessert  can  be  made,  if  eaten  before  it  becomes  tart  and 
tough,  with  a  liberal  allowance  of  cream  and  sugar.  There 
are  not  many  jellies  and  creams  superior  to  it. 

Rennet. 

Clean  the  stomach  of  a  calf  (or  have  your  butcher  do 
it  for  you)  so  soon  as  it  is  killed,  scouring  inside  and  out 
with  salt.  When  perfectly  clean,  tack  upon  a  frame  to  dry 
in  the  sun  for  a  day.  Cut  in  squares,  and  pack  down  in 
salt,  or  keep  in  wine  or  brandy.  When  you  wish  to  use 
the  salted,  soak  half  slw  hour  in  cold  water,  wash  well,  and 

12 


266  COMMON   8EXSE. 

put  iiito  the  milk  to  be  turned,  tied  to  a  striug,  that  it  may 
be  drawn  out  without  breaking  the  curd.  The  liquor  ren- 
net sold  by  druggists  is  sometimes  good,  quite  as  often 
worthless.  You  can,  however,  get  the  dried  or  salted  in 
the  markets,  and  often  in  the  drug-stores. 

Mountain  Citstaiid,  or  Junket.  Jj^ 

Take  a  piece  of  i*ennet  an  inch  long,  or  a  teaspoonful 
of  the  wine  in  which  rennet  is  kept,  to  each  quart  of  milk. 
Season  with  yanilla  or  lemon,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  to  each  quart.  More  will  retard  the 
formation.  Set  in  a  warm  place — near  the  fire,  or  on  the 
kitchen  table— closely  covered.  Look  at  it  from  time  to 
time,  and  if,  in  the  course  of  an  hour,  there  are  no  signs 
of  stiffening,  add  more  rennet.  When  it  is  firm,  like  blanc- 
mange, and  before  the  whey  separates  from  the  curd,  re- 
move the  rennet,  and  set  upon  ice  until  it  is  wanted.  Serve 
witli  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

Thickened  Milk. 

Boil  a  quart  of  milk,  add  a  very  little  salt,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  rice  or  wheat  flour  wet  in  cold  milk. 
Stir  in  smoothly,  and  let  it  thicken  in  a  vessel  of  boiling 
water,  keeping  the  outer  sauce2>an  at  a  hard  boil  for  half 
an  hour.  Eat  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  with  cream  and 
sugar.  For  invalids,  or  children  who  are  suffering  with 
summer  disorders,  boil  at  least  an  hour,  stirring  very  often. 

Cheese. 

I  have  doubted  the  utility  of  inserting  a  receipt  for 
regular  cheese -making.  The  apparatus  necessary  for  the 
manufacture  is  seldom,  if  ever,  found  in  a  private  family, 
while  cheese  can  be  had  in  every  country  store  at  one-third 
the  expense  to  an  amateur  of  making  it.     But,  remember- 


MILK,   BUTTES,   CHEESE,   ETC.  267 

ing  that  it  may  be  a  pleasant,  if  not  profitable  experiment, 
for  the  mistress  of  many  cowg  to  make  at  her  odd  moments, 
I  have  secured  what  purports  to  be  an  exact  description  of 
*'  cheese-making  on  a  small  scale.'' 

To  each  gallon  of  milk  warm  from  the  cow,  add  a  piece  of 
rennet  six  inches  long  and  three  wide,  or  two  tablespoonfuls 
rennet-water — i,  c,  water  in  which  rennet  has  been  boiled. 
Cover,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  until  it  becomes  a  firm  curd ; 
this  should  be,  at  the  most,  not  more  than  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  When  the  whey  has  separated  entirely,  and  looks 
clear  and  greenish,  wash  your  hands  very  clean,  and  with 
them  gently  press  all  the  curd  to  one  side  of  the  pan  or  tub, 
while  an  assistant  dips  out  the  whey.  Have  ready  a  stout 
linen  bag,  pour  the  curd  into  it,  and  hang  it  up  to  dry 
until  not  another  drop  of  whey  can  be  pressed  out ;  then 
put  the  curd  into  a  wooden  dish,  and  chop  it  fine.  Empty 
into  a  finar  bag,  and  put  into  a  small  cheese-box,  or  other 
circular  wooden  box  with  a  perforated  bottom,  and  a  lid 
that  slides  down  easily  but  closely  on  the  inside.  Your 
bag  should  be  as  nearly  as  possible  the  same  shape  and 
size  as  this  box.  Lay  heavy  weights  upon  the  top,  in  lack 
of  a  cheese-press,  and  let  it  stand  an  houi*.  The  cloth 
should  be  wet  inside  as  well  as  out,  before  you  put  the 
curds  in.  At  the  end  of  the  hour,  take  out  the  cheese 
and  chop  again,  adding  salt  this  time.  Have  ready  a  fresh 
wet  cloth ;  pack  in  the  curd  hard.  There  should  be  a  cir- 
cular cover  for  this  bag,  which  must  be  basted  all  around, 
and  very  smooth  on  top.  Scald  the  box  and  cover,  then 
rinse  with  cold  water,  and  put  the  cheese  again  under 
press  for  twelve  hours.  Next  day,. take  it  out,  rub  all 
over  with  salt,  and  fit  on  a  clean  wet  cloth.  Look  at  it 
sixteen  hours  later,  pare  off  the  rough  edges,  and  scrape 
the  sides  of  inequalities  before  returning  to  the  press  for 
the  last  time.     I^et  it  remain  under  the  weights  for  twenty- 


268  COMMON  BENBE. 

four  hours.  Strip  off  the  cloth,  iTib  the  cheese  well  with 
butter,  and  lay  upon  a  clean  cloth  spread  on  a  shelf  in  a 
cool,  dry  place.  A  wire  safe  is  best.  Wipe  clean ;  then 
rub  every  day  with  butter  for  a  week,  and  turn  also  every 
twenty-four  hours.  At  the  end  of  the  week,  omit  the 
greasing,  and  rub  hard  with  a  coai'^e  cloth.  Do  this  every 
day  for  a  month.  Your  cheese  will  then  be  eatable,  but 
it  will  be  much  finer  six  months  later. 

Stilton  cheeses— renowned  over  the  world— are  buried 
in  dry  heather  when  they  are  firm  enough  to  remove  from 
the  shelves,  and  kept  there  a  month.  This  is  called 
**  ripening.*' 

Cottage  Cheese. 

Heat  sour  milk,  until  the  whey  rises  to  the  top.  Pour 
it  off,  put  the  curd  in  a  bag  and  let  it  drip  six  hours,  with- 
out squeezing  it.  Put  in  a  wooden  bowl,  chop  fine  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  salt  to  taste,  and  work  to  the  consistency  of 
soft  putty,  adding  a  little  cream  and  butter  as  you  pro- 
ceed. Mould  with  your  hands  into  round  "  pats"  or  balls, 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place.     It  is  best  when  fresh. 

Cream  Cheese. 

Stir  a  little  salt  into  a  pan  of  "  lojjpered  "  cream.  Pour 
into  a  linen  bag,  and  let  it  drain  three  days,  changing  the 
bag  every  day.  Then  pack  into  a  wooden  cup  or  mould 
with  holes  in  the  bottom,  and  press  two  hours.  Wet  the 
mould  with  cold  water  before  putting  in  the  cream-curd. 
Wrapped  in  soft  white  paper — ^two  or  three  folds  of  tissue- 
paper  will  do — to  exclude  the  air,  they  will  keep  in  a 
cool  place  for  a  week. 

This  is  the  cheese  sold  in  this  country  under  the  name 
of  NeufchcUd. 


BBEAD.  269 

BREAD. 

If  eminence  of  importance  entitled  a  subject  to  preemi- 
nence of  position,  that  of  which  we  are  now  about  to  speak 
should  have  stood  foremost  in  this  work.  It  is  not  a  pleas- 
ant thing  to  think  or  write  about,  but  it  is  a  stubborn  fact 
that  upon  thousands  of  tables,  in  otherwise  comfortable 
homes,  good  bread  is  an  unknown  phenomenon.  I  say  phe- 
nomenon, because  it  would  indeed  be  a  marvellous  estrange- 
ment of  cause  and  effect  were  indifferent  flour,  unskilfully 
mixed  with  flat  yeast,  badly  risen  and  negligently  baked,  to 
result  in  that  pride  of  the  notable  housekeeper — light,  sweet, 
wholesome  bread.  I  know  a  household  where  sour,  stiflf 
bread  is  the  rule,  varied  several  times  duiing  the  week  by 
muffins  scented  and  colored  with  soda,  clammy  biscuit,  and 
leathery  griddle-cakes ;  another,  where  the  bread  is  inva- 
riably over-risen,  and  consequently  tasteless,  sometimes 
slightly  acid ;  yet  another  in  which  home-made  bread  is  not 
used  at  all,  because  it  is  ''so  troublesome  and  uncertain,'^ 
the  mistress  preferring  to  feed  her  family,  growing  children 
and  all,  upon  the  vari-colored  sponges  bought  at  the  bakers 
— sponges  inflated  with  sal  volatile,  flavorless,  and  dry  as 
chips  when  a  day  old,  and  too  often  betraying,  in  the  dark 
streaks  running  through  the  interior  of  the  loaf,  want  of 
cleanliness  in  the  kneader.  Yet  these  are  all  well-to-do 
people,  who  submit  to  these  abominations  partly  because 
they  do  not  know  how  badly  off  they  are— chiefly  because 
it  is  their  way  of  doing,  and  they  see  no  reason  for  chang- 
ing. **  I  have  been  a  housekeeper  for  thirty  years,  and  have 
always  mixed  my  bread  just  so,"  retorted  a  mistress  once, 
when  I  mildly  set  forth  the  advantages  of  '*  setting  a  sponge" 
over-night.  "  I  put  in  flour,  yeast,  and  milk  if  I  have  it, 
and  give  them  a  good  stir ;  then  set  the  dough  down  to  rise. 
.Our  folks  don't  fancy  very  light  bi-ead.     There  don't  seem 


270  COMMON   SENSE. 

to  be  any  substance  in  it — so  to  speak.     Mine  generally 
turns  out  pretty  nice.     It^s  all  luck,  after  all,  about  bread.'' 

*'  I'm  told  you  bave  a  receipt  for  making  bread,"  laugh- 
ed another  to  me ;  '*  I  never  heard  of  such  a  thing  in  my 
life,  and  I've  been  keeping  house  eighteen  years.  So  I 
thought  I'd  call  and  ask  you  for  it — just  as  a  curiosity, 
you  know.     I  want  to  see  what  it  is  like." 

I  wisely  kept  my  thoughts  to  myself,  and  dictated  the 
receipt,  which  she  jotted  down  in  a  memorandum-book, 
laughing  all  the  while  at  the  '^  excellent  joke." 

"  You  really  use  this  ?  "  she  demanded,  when  this  was 
done. 

"  I  do.     I  have  used  no  other  for  many  years." 

*'  And  the  bread  I  ata  upon  your  table,  the  other  night, 
was  made  according  to  this  ?  " 

Again  an  affirmative  answer. 

**  I  guess  your  cook  could  tell  another  story,"  rejoined 
the  skeptic.  "  You  can't  make  me  believe  that  bread  is 
made  by  rule.  I  put  my  materials  together  anyhow,  and  I 
have  as  good  luck  as  most  of  my  neighbors." 

I  regarded  my  visitor  as  an  impertinent  simpleton;  but 
I  have  been  amazed,  in  subsequent  years,  at  finding  that  her 
creed  is  that  of  hundreds  of  housewives  more  or  less  sensi- 
ble. '^  Luck  "  rules  the  baking,  and  upon  the  shoulders  of 
this  Invisible  are  laid  the  deficiencies  of  the  complacent 
cook.  Cheap  flour  and  laziness  are  at  the  bottom  of  more 
mishaps  in  the  bread  line  than  any  other  combination  of 
circumstances.  From  the  inferior  grades  of  flour,  it  is  pos- 
sible to  make  tolerable  biscuit,  crumpets,  and  muffins,  plain 
jiastry,  and  very  good  griddle-cakes.  You  cannot,  by  any 
stress  of  art,  produce  excellent  bread  from  poor  flour.  It 
is  no  economy  to  purchase  it  for  this  purpose.  It  injudici- 
ous to  lay  in  two  barrels  at  a  time,  and  to  use  the  best  only 
for  the  semi-  or  tri-weekly  baking. 


BSEAD.  271 

Chiefesb  then  among  the  conditions  to  good  bi-ead,  I 
place  good  "  family "  flour— dry,  elastic,  and  odorless. 
Whiteness  is  a  secondary  consideration,  although,  to  Ameri- 
can eyes,  this  is  a  recommendation.  A  little  experience 
vnll  teach  you  to  detect  the  signs  that  foretell  satisfactory 
baking-days,  and  vice  versd.  If  in  handling  the  flour  you 
discern  a  heaviness  like  that  of  ground  plaster ;  if  in  squeez- 
ing a  handful  tightly  you  discover  that  it  retains  the  im- 
print of  palm  and  Angers,  and  rolls  back  into  the  tray  a 
compact  ball  or  roll ;  if  it  is  in  the  least  musty,  or  sour, 
use  it  very  sparingly  in  your  trial-baking,  for  the  chances 
are  as  ten  to  one  that  you  will  head  the  barrel  up  again 
and  return  it  to  your  grocer. 

Sometimes  new  flour  can  be  ripened  for  use  by  sifting 
enough  for  each  baking  into  a  large  tray,  and  exposing  it  to 
the  hot  sun  for  some  hours,  or  by  setting  it  upon  the  kitch- 
en hearth  for  the  same  time.  And  it  not  unfrequently  hap- 
pens that  flour  improves  greatly  after  the  barrel  has  been 
open  for  several  days  or  weeks.  It  dries  out  and  becomes 
lighter,  more  elastic.  Next  in  importance  to  the  quality 
of  the  flour  is  that  of  the  yeast.  This  shotild  be  light  in 
color  and  lively,  effervescing  easily  when  shaken,  and  emit- 
ting an  odor  like  weak  ammonia.  If  dull  or  sour,  it  is  bad. 
In  cities,  it  is  easiest,  perhaps  cheapest,  to  buy  yeast  from 
a  breweiy  or  bakery,  exercising  your  discrimination  as  to 
quality ;  unless  you  can  satisfy  yourself  in  this  regard,  you 
had  better  make  your  own.  I  can  confidently  recommend 
the  receipts  given  in  this  work  as  easy  and  safe,  having 
tried  them  in  my  own  family. 

Novices  in  bread-making,  and  many  who  should  have 
learned  better  by  long  experience,  fall  into  a  sad  mistake 
in  the  consistency  of  the  dough.  It  should  be  mixed  as 
8oft  as  it  can  be'hancUecL  Bread  will  rise  sooner  and  high- 
er, bo  lighter  and  more  digestible,  and  keep  fresh   much 


272  COMMON   BEKBE. 

longer,  if  this  inile  be  followed.  Stiff  bread  is  close  in  tex- 
ture, often  waxy  to  the  teeth,  and  after  a  day  or  so  becomes 
very  hard. 

Set  the  dough  to  rise  in  a  moderately  warm  place,  and 
keep  it  at  an  even  temperature.  There  is  force  in  the  old 
lament — "  My  bread  took  cold,  last  night."  Cold  arrests 
the  process  of  fermentation.  There  is  a  chance,  should  this 
occur,  that  a  removal  to  a  more  genial  atmosphere  and  care- 
ful nursing  may  cure  the  congestion,  should  it  be  only  par- 
tial. Too  much  heat  carries  forward  the  work  too  rapidly. 
In  this  case,  you  will  find  your  dough  puffy  and  sour.  Cor- 
rect the  latter  evil  by  dissolving  a  little  soda  or  saleratus 
in  hot  water,  and  working  it  well  in. 

Knead  your  bread  faithfully  and  from  all  sides,  imtil 
it  rebounds  like  india-rubber  after  a  smart  blow  of  the  fist 
upon  the  centre  of  the  mass. 

The  oven  should  not  be  too  hot.  If  you  cannot  hold 
your  bare  arm  within  it  while  you  count  thirty,  it  is  too 
quick.  Keep  the  heat  steady  after  the  bread  goes  in.  Too 
much  fire  at  first,  and  rapid  cooling,  produce  the  cfiect  upon 
the  bread  which  is  technically  called  "  slack-baked,"  i,  c, 
the  inside  of  the  loaf  is  never  properly  done.  Practice  and 
intelligent  observation  will,  in  time,  make  you  an  adept 
in  the  management  of  your  ovens.  If  the  bread  rises  rapid- 
ly while  baking,  and  the  crust  begins  to  form  before  the 
lower  part  of  the  loaf  is  baked,  cover  the  top  with  clean 
paper  until  you  are  ready  to  brown  it. 

Grate  away  the  burned  portions  of  the  crust,  should 
there  be  such.  This  is  better  than  chipping  with  a  knife. 
One  of  the  best  bread-makers  I  know  bakes  in  round  pans, 
each  loaf  by  itself,  and  grates  the  whole  outer  surface,  top, 
bottom,  and  sides,  quickly  and  lightly,  toning  down  the 
brown  to  a  uniform  and  pleasing  tint.  Tilt  your  loaves 
upon  the  edge,  the  lower  part  resting  upon  the  table,  the 


BRKAD.  273 

upper  supported  by  the  wall  or  other  upright  object,  and 
throw  a  coarse  dry  cloth  over  them  until  they  cool. 
This  position  allows  the  air  to  get  at  all  sides,  and  prevents 
"sweating."  A  tin  bread-box  is  best,  with  a' cloth  at  bot- 
tom and  enwrapping  the  loaves. 

Yeast  {JETop).  Jj^ 

4  large  potatoes,  or  six  small. 
2  quarts  cold  water. 
Double-handful  hops,  tied  in  a  coarse 

muslin  bag. 
4  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
2  white  sugar. 

Peel  the  potatoes,  and  put  them  with  the  hop-bag  into 
a  saiicepan  containing  two  quai'ts  cold  water.  Cover  and 
boil  until  the  potatoes  break  and  fall  apart.  Take  these 
out  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  leaving  the  water  still  boil- 
ing, mash  them  fine  with  a  potato-beetle,  and  work  in  the 
flour  and  sugar.  Moisten  this  gradually  with  the  hoUing 
hop  tea,  Stirling  it  to  a  smooth  paste.  When  all  the  tea 
has  been  mixed  in,  set  it  aside  to  cool.  While  still  slightly 
warm,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  lively  yeast,  and  turn  all 
into  a  large  open  vessel  to  *^  work."  Keep  this  in  a  warm 
place  until  it  ceases  to  bubble  up,  or  until  next  day.  In 
summer  it  will  work  well  in  a  few  hours.  When  quite 
light,  put  in  earthen  jai*s  with  small  mouths,  in  which  fit 
corks,  or  bottle  it,  and  remove  to  ice-house  or  cellar.  It 
will  keep  good  for  a  fortnight — longer  in  winter. 

When  you  wish  to  use  it  for  baking,  send  a  small  vessel 
to  the  cellar  for  the  desired  quantity,  and  re-cork  at  once. 
A  half-hour  in  a  hot  kitchen  may  spoil  it. 

12* 


271  COMMON   8KN6B. 

Yeast  {Sdf-vxyrkingy 
8  potatoes. 
2  ounces  hops. 
4  quarts  cold  water. 
1  lb.  flour. 
\  lb.  white  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  salt. 

Tie  the  hops  in  a  coarse  muslin  bag,  and  boil  one  hour 
in  four  quarts  of  water.  Let  it  cool  V>  lukewarmness  be- 
fore removing  the  bag.  Wet  with  the  tepid  liquor — a  little 
at  a  time — the  flour,  making  to  a  smooth  paste.  Put  in 
the  sugar  and  salt,  beat  up  the  batter  three  minutes  before 
adding  the  rest  of  the  tea.  Set  it  away  for  two  days  in  an 
open  bowl  covered  with  a  thin  cloth,  in  a  closet  which  is 
moderately  and  evenly  warm. 

On  the  third  day,  peel,  boil,  and  mash  the  potatoes,  and 
when  entirely  free  from  lumps  and  specks,  stir  in  grad- 
ually the  thickened  hop-liquor.  Let  it  stand  twelve  hours 
longer  in  the  bowl,  stirring  often,  and  keeping  it  in  the 
warm  kitchen.  Then  bottle  or  put  away  in  corked  jars, 
which  must  bo  perfectly  sweet  and  freshly  scalded.  This 
will  keep  a  month  in  a  cool  cellar.  It  is  more  troublesome 
to  make  it  than  other  kinds  of  yeast,  but  it  needs  no  other 
"  rising"  to  excite  fermentation,  and  remains  good  longer 
than  that  made  in  the  usual  way. 

Yeast  {Potato),  »J^ 

6  potatoes. 

2  quarts  cold  water. 

4  tablespoonfiils  flour. 

2  *'  white  sugar. 

Peel  and  boil  the  potatoes  until  they  break.  Leaving 
the  water  on  the  Are,  take  them  out  and  mash  fine  with  the 


BREAD.  275 

flour  and  sugar,  wetting  gradually  with  the  hot  water  until  it 
is  all  used.  When  lukewarm,  add  a  gill  of  good  yeast,  and 
set  aside  in  an  open  vessel  and  warm  place  to  ferment. 
When  it  ceases  to  effervesce,  bottle  and  set  in  ice-house. 

This  yeast  is  very  nice  and  white,  and  is  preferred  by 
many  who  dislike  the  bitter  taste  of  hops.  It  is  also  con- 
venient to  make  when  hops  cannot  be  obtained. 

Yeast  Cakes.  Jj^ 

2  quarts  water  (cold). 

1  quart  pared  and  sliced  potatoes. 

Double-handful  hops,  tied  in  coarse  muslin  bag. 

Flour  to  make  stiff  batter. 

1  cup  Indian  meal. 

Boil  the  potatoes  and  ]iop-bag  in  two  quarts  of  water 
for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Remove  the  hops,  and  while 
boiling  hot,  strain  the  potatoes  and  water  through  a  cidlen- 
der  into  a  bowl.  Stir  into  the  scalding  liquor  enough  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  all  up  well ;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  lively  yeast  and  set  in  a  waim  place  to  rise. 
When  light,  stir  in  a  cup  of  Indian  meal,  roll  into  a  sheet 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and  cut  into  round  cakes.  Dry 
these  in  the  hot  sun  or  in  a  vert/  moderate  oven,  taking 
care  tlioy  do  not  heat  to  baking.  It  is  best  to  put  them  in 
after  the  fire  has  gone  down  for  the  night,  and  leave  them 
in  until  morning.  When  entirely  dry  and  cold,  hang  them 
up  in  a  bag  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Use  one  cake  three  inches  in  diameter  for  a  loaf  of  fair 
size  ;  soak  in  tepid  water  until  soft,  and  add  a  pinch  of  soda 
or  saleratus,  then  mix. 

These  cakes  will  remain  good  a  month  in  summer,  two 
in  winter. 


276  COMMON   SENSE. 

Bakiko  Powders. 

1  oimce  super-carbonate  soda. 
7  drachms  tartaric  acid. 

Boll  smootlily  and  mix  thoronghly.  Keep  in  a  tight 
glass  jar  or  bottle.    Use  one  teaspoonful  to  a  quart  of  flour. 

Or, 

12  teaspoonfuls  carb.  soda. 
24;  *'  cream  tartar. 

Put  as  above,  and  use  in  like  proportion. 

Bread  Sponge  {Potato),  »J^ 
6  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  fine  while  hot. 
6  tablespoonfuls  baker^s  yeast. 
2  "  white  sugar. 

2  "  lard. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  quart  warm — not  hot — water. 

3  cups  flour. 

Mash  the  potatoes,  and  work  in  the  lard  and  sugar. 
Stir  to  a  cream,  mixing  in  gradually  a  quart  of  the  water 
in  which  the  potatoes  were  boiled,  which  should  have  been 
poured  out  to  cool  down  to  blood  warmth.  Be<U  in  the 
flour,  already  wet  up  with  a  little  potato-water  to  pi'event 
lumping,  then  the  yeast,  lastly  the  soda.  Cover  lightly  if 
the  weather  is  warm,  more  closely  in  winter,  and  set  to  rise 
over  night  in  a  warm  place. 

Bread  Sponge  {Plain),  »J^ 

1  quart  wann  water. 

6  tablespoonfuls  baker^s  yeast. 

2  «  lard. 

2  **  white  sugar. 


BREAD.  277 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Flour  to  make  a  soft  batter. 

Melt  the  lard  in  the  warm  water,  add  the  sugar,  then  the 
flour  by  degrees,  stirring  in  smoothly.  A  quart  and  a  pint 
of  flour  will  usually  be  sufficient  if  the  quality  is  good. 
Next  comes  the  yeast,  lastly  the  soda.  Beat  up  hard  for 
several  minutes,  and  set  to  rise  as  above. 

Bread  mixed  with  potato-sponge  is  more  nutritious, 
keeps  fresh  longer,  and  is  sweeter  than  that  made  with  the 
plainer  sponge.  But  there  are  certain  seasons  of  the  year 
when  good  old  potatoes  cannot  be  procured,  and  new  ones 
will  not  do  for  this  purpose. 

The  potato-sponge  is  safer,  because  surer  for  beginners 
in  the  important  art  of  bread-making.  After  using  it  for 
fifteen  years,  I  regard  it  as  almost  infallible — ^given  the 
conditions  of  good  flour,  yeast,  kneading,  and  baking. 

Family  Bread  (  White).  •{• 

Having  set  your  sponge  over  night,  or,  if  you  bake  late 
in  the  afternoon,  early  in  the  morning,  sift  dry  flour  into  a 
deep  bread-tray,  and  strew  a  few  spoonfuls  of  fine  salt  over 
it.  The  question  of  the  quantity  of  flour  is  a  delicate  one, 
requiting  judgment  and  experience.  Various  brands  of 
flour  are  so  unequal  with  respect  to  the  quantity  of  gluten 
they  contain,  that  it  is  impossible  to  give  any  invariable  rule 
on  this  subject.  It  will  be  safe,  however,  to  sift  two  quarts 
and  a  pint,  if  you  have  set  the  potato  sponge ;  two  quarts  for 
the  plain.  This  will  make  two  good-sized  loaves.  Make  a 
hole  in  the  middle  of  the  heap,  pour  in  the  risen  sponge 
(which  should  be  very  light  and  seamed  in  many  places  on 
the  top),  and  work  down  the  flour  into  it  with  your  hands. 
If  too  soft,  add  more  flour.  If  you  can  mould  it  at  all,  it 
is  not  too  soft.     If  stiff*,  rinse  out  the  bowl  in  which  the 


278  COMMON   SENSE.  ' 

sponge  was  set  with  a  little  lukewarm  water,  and  work  this 
in.  When  you  have  it  in  manageable  shape,  begin  to  knead. 
Work  the.  mass  into  a  ball — ^your  hands  having  been  wel] 
floured  from  the  first ;  detach  it  from  the  tray,  and  lift  it 
in  your  left  hand,  while  you  sprinkle  flour  with  the  right 
thickly  over  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  tray.  Toss  back 
the  ball  into  this,  and  knead  hard — always  toward  the 
centre  of  the  mass,  which  should  be  repeatedly  turned  over 
and  around,  that  every  portion  may  be  manipulated.  Brisk 
and  long  kneading  makes  the  pores  fine  and  regular.  Gap- 
ing holes  of  diverse  sizes  are  an  uneriing  tell-tale  of  a  care- 
less cook.  Spend  at  least  twenty  minutes — half  an  hour  is 
better — in  this  kind  of  useful  gymnastics.  It  is  grand  ex- 
ercise for  arms  and  chest.  This  done,  work  the  dough  into 
a  shapely  ball  in  the  centre  of  the  tray,  sprinkle  flour  over 
the  top ;  throw  a  cloth  over  all  and  leave  it  on  the  kitchen- 
table  to  rise,  taking  care  it  is  not  in  a  draught  of  cold  air. 
In  summer,  it  will  rise  in  four  or  five  hours— in  winter,  six 
are  often  necessary.  It  should  come  up  steadily  until  it  at 
least  trebles  its  original  bulk  and  the  floured  surface  cracks 
all  over.  Knead  again  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Then, 
divide  it  into  as  many  parts  as  you  wish  loaves,  and  put 
these  in  well-greased  pans  for  the  final  riEdng.  In  a  large 
household  baking,  it  is  customary  to  mould  the  dough  into 
oblong  rolls,  three  or  four,  according  to  the  number  of 
loaves  you  desire,  and  to  lay  these  close  together  in  one 
large  pan.  The  second  kneading  is  done  upon  a  floured 
board,  and  should  be.  thorough  as  the  first,  the  dough  being 
continually  shifted  and  tmned.  Set  the  pans  in  a  warm 
place  for  an  hour  longer,  with  a  cloth  thrown  over  them  to 
keep  out  the  air  and  dust.  Then  bake,  heeding  the  dii-ec- 
tions  set  down  in  the  article  upon  bread  in  general.  If  your 
ovens  arc  in  good  condition,  one  hour  should  bake  the  above 
quantity  of  bread.      But  hero  again  expciience  must  be 


BREAD.  279 

your  guide.  Note  carefully  for  yourself  how  long  a  time 
is  required  for  your  first  successful  baking,  as  also  how 
much  dry  flour  you  have  worked  into  your  sponge,  and  let 
these  data  regulate  future  action.  I  have  known  a  varia- 
tion of  two  quaiis  in  a  large  baking,  over  the  usual  measure 
of  flour.  I  need  not  tell  you  that  you  had  better  shun  a 
brand  that  requires  such  an  excessive  quantity  to  bring  the 
dough  to  the  right  consistency.  It  is  neither  nutritious  nor 
economical.  When  you  make  out  the  loaves,  prick  the  top 
with  a  fork. 

Do  not  make  your  flrst  baking  too  large.  Practice  is 
requisite  to  the  management  of  an  unwieldy  mass  of  dough. 
Let  your  trial-loaf  be  with  say  half  the  quantity  of  sponge 
and  flour  I  have  set  down,  and  increase  these  as  skill  and 
occasion  require,  carefully  preserving  the  proportions.  {Seven 
or  eight  quarts  of  flour  will  be  needed  for  the  semi- weekly 
baking  of  a  family  of  moderate  size. 

If  I  have  seemed  needlessly  minute  in  the  directions  I 
have  laid  down,  it  is  because  I  wish  to  be  a  guide,  not  a 
betrayer,  and  because  I  am  deeply  impressed  witli  the  worth 
of  such  advice  as  may  tend  to  diminish  the  number  of  those 
who  know  not  for  themselves  the  comfort  and  delight  of 
eating  from  day  to  day,  and  year  to  year,  good  family  bread. 

Family  Bread  (^Brown).  »J« 

I  wish  it  were  in  my  power,  by  much  and  eai'nest 
speaking  and  writing,  to  induce  every  housekeeper  to 
make  brown  bread — that  is,  bread  made  of  unbolted,  usu- 
ally called  Graham  flour — a  staple  article  of  diet  in  her  fam- 
ily. I  only  repeat  the  declaration  of  a  majority  of  our  best 
chemists  and  physicians  when  I  say  that  our  American 
fondness  for  fine  white  bread  is  a  serious  injury  to  oui 
health.  We  bolt  and  rebolt  our  flour  until  we  extract 
from  it  thrce-quai-ters  of  its  nutritive  qualities,   leaving 


280  COMMON   SENSE. 

little  strength  in  it  except  what  lies  in  gluten  or  starch, 
and  consign  that  which  makes  bone  and  tissue,  which  regu- 
lates the  digestive  organs,  and  leaves  the  blood  pure,  the 
brain  clear,  to  the  lower  animals.  Growing  children  es- 
pecially should  eat  brown  bread  daily.  It  supplies  the 
needed  phosphate  to  the  tender  teeth  and  bones.  If  prop- 
erly made,  it  soon  commends  itself  to  their  taste,  and  white 
becomes  insijnd  in  comparison.  Dyspeptics  have  long  been 
familiar  with  its  dietetic  virtues,  and,  were  the  use  of  it 
moi'e  general,  we  should  have  fewer  wretches  to  mourn 
over  the  destroyed  coats  of  their  stomachs.  It  is  whole- 
some, sweet,  honest,  and  sliould  be  popular. 

Prepare  a  sponge  as  for  white  bread,  using  potatoes 
or  white  flour.  My  rule  is  to  take  out  a  certain  quantity 
of  the  risen  sponge  on  baking  day,  and  set  aside  for  brown 
bread.  Put  into  a  tray  two  parts  Graham  flour,  one-third 
white,  and  to  every  quart  of  this  allow  a  handful  of  Indian 
meal,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Wet  this  up  with  the 
sponge,  and  when  it  is  mixed,  add,  for  a  loaf  of  fair  size, 
half  a  teacupful  of  molasses.  The  dough  should  be  very 
soft.  If  there  is  not  enough  of  the  sponge  to  reduce  it  to 
the  desired  consistency,  add  a  little  blood-warm  water. 
Knead  it  diligently  and  long.  It  will  not  rise  so  rapidly 
&s  the  white  flour,  having  more  *'  body  "  to  carry.  Let  it 
take  its  time;  make  into  round,  comfortable  loaves,  and 
set  down  again  for  the  second  rising,  when  you  have  again 
kneaded  it.  Bake  steadily,  taking  care  it  does  not  bum, 
and  do  not  cut  while  hot.  The  result  will  well  repay  you 
for  your  trouble.  It  will  take  a  longer  time  to  bake  than 
white  bread.     Brown  flour  should  not  be  sifted. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. 

Set  a  sponge  over  night,  with  potatoes  or  white  flour, 
in  the  following  proportions : — 


BREAD.  281 

1  cup  yeast. 

6  potatoes,  mashed  fine  with  three  cups  of  flour. 

1  quart  warm  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lard  (ar^  if  you  leave  out  the  potatoes, 
one  quart  of  warm  water  to  three  pints  of  flour). 

2  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugai*. 

Beat  up  well,  and  let  it  rise  Ave  or  six  hours. 
When  light,  sift  into  the  bread-tray — 

1  quart  rye-flour. 

2  quarts  Indian  meal. 
1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  or  saleratus. 

Mix  this  up  very  soft  with  the  risen  sponge,  adding 
warm  water,  if  needed,  and  working  in  gradually 
Half  >a  teacupful  of  molasses. 

Knead  well,  and  let  it  rise  from  six  to  seven  hours. 
Then  work  over  again,  and  divide  into  loaves,  putting  these 
in  well-greased,  i-ound,  deep  pans.  The  second  rising  should 
last  an  hour,  at  the  end  of  which  time  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  four  hours.  Bapid  baking  will  ruin  it.  If 
put  in  late  in  the  day,  let  it  stay  in  the  oven  all  night. 

Bye  Bread. 

Set  a  sponge,  as  above,  but  with  half  the  quantity  of 
water. 

In  the  morning  mix  with  this : 
1  quart  warm  milk. 
1  tablespoonful  salt. 
1  cup  Indian  meal. 
And  enough  rye  flour  to  make  it  into  pliable  dough. 

Proceed  as  with  wheat  bread,  baking  it  a  little  longer. 


282  COMMON   SENSE. 

It  is  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  acidity,  greater  or  less, 
is  the  normal  state  of  rye  bread.  If  you  find  your  dough 
in  the  slightest  degree  sour,  correct  by  adding  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water.  It  is  safest  to  add 
this  always  in  wai'm  weather,  • 

Milk  Bread. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

i  teacupful  of  yeast.^ 

J  lb.  butter,  one  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

Stir  into  the  milk,  which  should  be  made  blood-warm, 
a  i)int  of  flour,  the  sugar,  lastly  the  yeast.  Beat  all  to- 
gether well,  and  let  them  rise  five  or  six  hours.  Then 
melt  the  butter,  and  add  with  a  little  salt.  Work  in  fiour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough ;  let  this  rise  four  hours,  and 
make  into  small  loaves.  Set  near  the  fire  for  half  an  hour, 
and  bake. 

In  warm  weather,  add  a  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in 
warm  water,  to  the  risen  sponge,  as  all  .bread  mixed  with 
milk  is  apt  to  sour. 

Buttermilk  Bread. 

1  pint  buttermilk  heated  to  scaldLig. 

Stir  in,  while  it  is  hot,  enough  flour  to  make  a  tolerably 
thick  batt«r.  Add  half  a  gill  of  yeast,  and  let  it  rise  five 
or  six  hours.  If  you  make  it  over  night  you  need  not  add 
the  yeast,  but  put  in,  instead,  a  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 
In  the  morning,  stir  into  the  sponge,  a  teaspoonful  soda 
dfssolved  in  hot  water,  a  little  salt,  and  two  tablespoq^fuls 
melted  butter.  Work  in  just  flour  enough  to  enable  you 
to  handle  the  dough  comfortably ;  knead  well,  make  into 
loaves,  and  let  it  rise  until  light. 

This  makes  very  white  and  wholesome  bread. 


BBEAD.  283 

Rice  Bread. 

Make  a  sponge  of — 

1  quart  warm  water. 
1  teacupfiil  yeast. 

1  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

2  *'  lard. 
1  quart  wheat  flour. 

Beat  well  together,  and  when  it  has  risen,  which  will  be 
in  about  five  hours,  add  three  pints  of  warm  milk  and  three 
teacupfuls  rice-flour  wet  to  a  thin  paste  with  cold  nulk, 
and  boiled  four  minutes  a«  you  would  starch.  This  should 
be  a  little  more  than  blood-warm  when  it  is  stirred  into  the 
batter.  If  not  thick  enough  to  make  out  into  dough,  add  a 
little  wheat-flour.  E^nead  thoroughly,  and  treat  as  you  would 
wheat  bread  in  the  matter  of  the  two  risings  and  baking. 

This  is  nice  and  delicate  for  invalids,  and  keeps  well. 
If  you  cannot  procure  the  rice-flour,  boil  one  cup  of  whole 
rice  to  a  thin  paste,  mashing  and  beating  it  smooth. 

French  Bolls.  (A^o.  1.)  4* 

In  kneading  dough  for  the  day^s  baking,  after  adding 
and  working  in  the  risen  sponge,  set  aside  enough  for  a  loaf 
of  tea-rolls.  Work  into  this  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard 
or  butter,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  tolerably  cool  place  (not  a 
cold  or  draughty  one)  for  four  hours.  Knead  it  again, 
and  let  it  alone  for  three  houi*s  longer.  Then  make  into 
rolls,  by  rolling  out,  very  lightly,  pieces  of  the  dough  into 
round  cakes,  and  folding  these,  not  quite  in  the  centre,  like 
turn-overs.  The  third  rising  will  be  for  one  hour,  then 
bake  steadily  half  an  hour  or  less,  if  the  oven  is  quick. 

Having  seen  these  rolls,  smoking^  ligbt,  and  delicious 
upon  my  own  table,  at  least  twice  a  week  for  ten  years, 
with  scarcely  a  failure  in  the  mixing  or  baking,  I  can  con- 


284  COMMON   8ENSE. 

fidently  recommend  the  receipt  and  the  product.     You  can 
make  out  part  of  your  Graham  dough  in  the  same  manner. 

French  Bolls.  (A^o.  2.) 

1  quart  milk ;  new,  warm  milk  is  best. 

1  teacup  yeast. 

1  quart  and  a  pint  flour. 

When  this  s[)onge  is  light,  work  in  a  well-beaten  egg 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  one 
tablespoonful  white  sugar  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Let  this  stand  four  or  five  hours,  roll  out  into 
round  cakes  and  fold  as  in  No.  1,  or  shape  with  your  hands 
into  balls.  Bet  these  closely  together  in  the  baking-pan ; 
let  them  rise  one  hour,  and  just  before  putting  them  into 
the  oven,  cut  deeply  across  each  ball  with  a  sharp  knife. 
This  will  make  the  cleft  roll,  so  familiar  to  us  in  il^rench 
restaurants.     Bake  half  an  hour. 

BisEN  Biscuit.  *J« 

1  quart  milk. 

J  cup  lard  or  butter — ^half-and-half  is  a  good  rule. 
J  cup  of  yeaj^t. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Mix  over  night,  warming  the  milk  slightly  and  melting 
the  lard  or  butter.  In  the  morning,  roll  out  into  a  sheet 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  thickness;  cut  into  round 
cakes,  set  these  closely  together  in  a  pan,  let  them  rise  for 
twenty  minutes,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

These  delightful  biscuits  are  even  better  if  the  above  in- 
gredients be  set  with  half  as  much  flour,  in  the  foim  of  a 


BREAD.  285 

thin  sponge,  and  the  rest  of  the  flour  be  worked  in  five 
hours  later.  Let  this  rise  five  hours  more,  and  proceed  as 
already  directed.  This  is  the  best  plan  if  the  biscuit  are 
intended  for  tea. 

Sally  Lunn.  {No.  1.)  4* 
1  quart  of  flour. 
4  eggs. 

\  cup  melted  butter. 
1  cup  worm  milk. 
1  cup  warm  water. 
4  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
^  '^  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff'  froth,  add  the  mil£,  water,  butter, 
soda,  and  salt ;  stir  in  the  flour  to  a  smooth  batter,  and 
beat  the  yeast  in  well.  Set  to  rise  in  a  buttered  pudding- 
dish,  in  which  it  must  be  baked  and  sent  to  table.  Or,  if 
you  wish  to  turn  it  out,  set  to  rise  in  a  t^e^^-buttered  mould. 
It  will  not  be  light  under  six  hours.  Bake  steadily  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  a  straw  thrust  into  it  comes 
up  clean.     Eat  while  hot.  * 

This  is  the  genuine  old-fasliioned  Sally  Lunn,  and  will 
hardly  give  place  even  yet  to  the  newer  and  faster  com- 
pounds known  under  the  same  name. 

Sally  Lunn.  {No.  2.)  4* 
1  scant  quart  flour. 
4  eggs. 

1  teacupful  milk. 

1         *^         lard  and  butter  mixed. 
1  teaspoonful  cream-tartar. 
1^  *'  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  "  salt. 


286  OOMMON   SENSE. 

Beat  the  eggd  very  light,  yolks  and  whites  separately ; 
melt  the  shortening,  sift  the  cream-tartar  into  the  flour, 
add  the  whites  the  last  tiling. 

Potato  Biscuit. 

8  potatoes  of  medium  size,  mashed  very  fine. 
4  tablespoonfuls  butter,  melted. 
2  cups  milk,  blood- warm. 

1  cup  yeast. 

Flour  to  make  a  thin  batter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

Stir  all  the  above  ingredients  together  except  the  but- 
ter, and  let  the  sponge  rise  until  light — ^four  or  five  hours 
will  do ;  then  «.dd  the  melted  butter  with  a  little  salt  and 
flour,  enough  to  make  soft  dough.  Set  aside  this  for  four 
hours  longer,  roll  out  in  a  sheet  three-quarters  of  an  inch 
thick,  cut  into  cakes ;  let  these  rise  one  hour,  and  bake. 

Mrs.  E 's  Biscuit  {Soda),  »J« 

1  quart  flour. 

2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  lard. 

2  cups  sweet — if  you  can  get  it — new  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  "  cream-tartar. 
1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Kub  the  soda  and  cream-tartar  into  the  flour,  and  sift 
all  together  before  they  are  wet ;  then  put  in  the  salt ;  next 
the  lard,  nibbed  into  the  prepared  flour  quickly  and  light- 
ly ;  lastly,  pour  in  the  milk.  Work  out  the  dough  rapidly, 
kneading  with  as  few  strokes  as  possible,  since  handling 
injures  the  biscuit.  If  property  prepared  the  dough  will 
have  a  rough  surface  and  the  biscuit  be  flaky.  The  dough 
should  also  be  vori/  soft.     If  the  flour  stiffen  it  too  much, 


BBEAD.  287 

add  more  milk.  KoU  out  lightly,  cut  into  cakes  at  least 
half  an  inch  thick,  and  hake  in  a  quick  oven.  The  hiscuit 
made  by  the  friend  from  whom  I  had  this  receipt  were 
marvels  of  lightness  and  sweetness.  I  have  often  thought 
of  them  since  with  regretful  longing,  when  set  down  to  so- 
called  "  sodarbiscuit,"  marbled  with  greenish-yellow  streaks, 
and  emitting,  when  split,  an  odor  which  was  in  itself  an 
eloquent  dissuasive  to  an  educated  appetite.  Few  cooks 
make  really  good,  quick  biscuit — ^why,  I  am  unable  to  say, 
unless  upon  the  principle  of  "  brains  will  tell."  I  have 
had  more  than  one  in  my  kitchen,  who,  admirable  in  almost 
every  other  respect,  were  absolutely  uniit  to  be  intrusted 
with  this  simple  yet  delicate  manufacture.  The  common 
fault  is  to  have  too  ^'  heavy  a  hand "  with  soda,  and  to 
"  guess  at "  the  quantities,  instead  of  measuring  them.  Eat 
while  warm. 

GRAHA.M  Biscuit.  »J* 

3  cups  Graham  flour. 

1  cup  white. 
3  cups  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lai'd. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  white  sug&r. 
1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 

Mix  and  bake  as  you  do  the  white  soda-biscuit  (Mi*s. 
E 's).     They  are  good  cold  as  well  as  hot. 

Minute  Biscuit. 

1  pint  sour,  or  buttemdlk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter. 


288  COMMON    8BN8E. 

Flour  to  make  soft  dough — just  stiff  enough  to  handle. 
Mix,  roll,  and  cut  out  rapidly,  with  as  little  handling  as 
may  be,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oveu. 

Graham  Whkatlets. 

1  pint  Gitiham  flour. 

Nearly  a  quart  of  boiling  water  or  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Scald  the  flour,  when  you  have  salted  it,  into  as  soft 
dough  as  you  can  handle.  Boll  it  nearly  an  inch  thick, 
cut  in  round  cakes,  lay  upon  a  hot  buttered  tin  or  pan, 
and  bake  them  in  the  hottest  oven  you  can  get  ready. 
Everything  depends  upon  heat  in  the  manufacture  of  these. 
Some  cooks  spi*ead  them  on  a  hot  tin,  and  set  this  upou  a 
red-hot  stove.  Properly  scalded  and  cooked,  they  are  light 
as  pufls,  and  very  good ;  otherwise  they  are  flat  and  tough. 
Split  and  butter  while  hot. 

Sweet  Rusk.  4* 

1  pint  warm  milk. 
J  cup  of  butter, 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 

Make  a  sponge  with  the  milk,  yeast,  and  enough  flour 
for  a  thin  batter,  and  let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing add  the  butter,  eggs,  and  sugar,  previously  beaten  up 
well  together,  the  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Mould  with  the  hands  into  balls  of  uniform  size  ; 
set  close  together  in  a  pan,  and  let  them  rise  until  very 
light.  After  baking,  wash  the  tops  with  a  clean  soft  cloth 
dipped  in  molasses  and  water. 


BREAD.  289 

Dried  Busk.  »{* 

1  pint  of  wai'm  milk. 

2  eggs. 

\  teacup  of  butter. 

Half  a  cup  of  yeast. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Set  a  sponge  with  these  ingredients,  leaving  out  the 
eggs,  and  stirring  in  flour  until  you  have  a  thick  batter. 
Early  next  morning  add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  and  flour 
enough  to  enable  you  to  roll  out  the  dough.  Let  this  rise 
in  the  bread-bowl  two  hours.  Roll  into  a  sheet  nearly  an 
inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes,  and  arrange  in  your  bak- 
ing-])an  two  deep,  laying  one  upon  the  other  carefully. 
Let  these  stand  for  another  half-hour,  and  bake. 

These  are  now  very  nice  for  eating,  and  you  may,  if 
you  like,  reserve  a  plateful  for  tea ;  out  the  rule  for  the 
many,  handed  down  through,  I  am  a&aid  to  say  how  many 
generations,  in  the  family  where  I  first  ate  this  novel  and 
delightful  biscuit,  is  to  divide  the  twins,  thus  leaving  one 
side  of  each  cake  soft,  and,  piling  them  loosely  in  the  pan, 
set  them  in  the  oven  when  the  fire  is  declining  for  the 
night,  and  leave  them  in  until  morning.  Then,  still  obey- 
ing the  traditions  of  revered  elders,  put  them  in  a  clean 
muslin  bag,  and  hang  them  up  in  the  kitchen.  They  will 
be  fit  to  eat  upon  the  third  day.  Put  as  many  as  you  need 
in  a  deep  dish  and  pour  over  them  iced  milk,  or  water,  if 
you  cannot  easily  procure  the  former.  Let  them  soak  un- 
til soft,  take  them  out,  drain  them  for  a  minute  in  a  shal- 
low plate,  and  eat  with  butter.  Invalids  and  children 
crave  them  eagerly.  Indeed,  I  have  seen  few  refuse  them 
who  had  ever  tasted  them  before.  There  is  a  pastoral  flavor 
about  the  pleasant  dish,  eaten  with  the  accompaniment  of 
fresh  berries,  on  a  summer  evening,  that  ai)peals  to  the  bet- 
ter impulses  of  one's  appetite. 

13 


290  COMMON   SENSE. 

Try  my  soaked  rusk — not  forgetting  to  ice  the  milk — 
and  you  will  find  out  for  yourself  what  I  mean,  but  cannot 
quite  express. 

Dried  rusk  will  keep  for  weeks,  and  gi*ow  better  every 
day.  The  only  risk  is  in  their  being  eaten  up  before  they 
attain  makirity. 

Butter  Crackeks. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

^  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

2  cups  sweet  milk. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  or,  what  is  better,  cut  it 

up  with  a  knife  or  gliopper,  as  you  do  in  pastry ;  add  the 

salt,  milk,  and  soda,  mixing  well.     Work  into  a  ball,  lay 

upon  a  floured  board,  and  beat  with  the  rolling-pin  half  an 

hour,  turning  and  shifting  the  mass  often.     Boll  into  an 

even  sheet,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  or  less,  prick  deeply 

with  a  fork,  and  bake  hard  in  a  moderate  oven.     Hang 

them  up  in  a  muslin  bag  in  the  kitchen  for  two  days  to 

diy. 

Wafers.  »J* 

1  pound  of  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
A  little  salt. 

Mix  with  sweet  milk  into  a  stifl*  dough,  roll  out  very 
thin,  cut  into  round  cakes,  and  again  roll  these  as  thin  as 
they  can  be  handled.  Lift  them  carefully,  lay  in  a  pan, 
and  bake  very  quickly. 

These  are  extremely  nice,  especially  for  invalids.  They 
should  be  hardly  thicker  than  writing-paper.  Flour  the 
baking-pan  instead  of  greasing. 


BBEAD.  291 

Cbumfets  {Sweet), 

1  pint  raised  dough. 
3  eggs. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
•J  cup  white  sugar. 

When  your  bread  has  passed  its  second  rising,  work  in- 
to the  above-named  quantity  the  melted  butter,  then  the 
eggs  and  sugar,  beaten  together  until  very  light.  Bake  in 
muffin-rings  about  twenty  minutes. 

Crumpets  (Plain).  »J* 

3  cups  warm  milk. 

\  cup  yeast. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

1  saltsjx^onful  salt,  aud  the  same  of  soda,  dissolved  in 

hot  water. 
Flour  to  make  good  batter. 

Set  these  ingredients — leaving  out  the  butter  and  soda 
— as  a  sponge.  When  very  light,  beat  in  the  melted  but- 
ter, with  a  very  little  flour,  to  prevent  the  butter  from 
thinning  the  batter  too  much ;  stir  in  the  soda  hai'd,  flU 
pattypans  or  muffin-rings  with  the  mixtui*e,  and  let  them 
stand  fifteen  minutes  before  baking. 

This  is  an  excellent,  easy,  and  economical  receipt. 

Graham  Muffins.  4* 

3  cups  Graham  flour. 

1     "     white  flour. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

J  cup  yeast. 

1  tablespoouful  lard  or  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 


292  COMMON  SENSE. 

Set  to  rise  over  night,  and  bake  in  muffin-rings  twenty 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven.     Eat  hot. 

Queen  Muffins.  »{* 

1  quart  of  milk. 
1^  cup  of  yeast. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

1  **  of  lard  or  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  good  batter. 

2  eggs. 

Set  the  batter — leaving  out  the  eggs — to  rise  over 

night.     In  the  morning  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  stir  into 

the  batU'r,  and  bake  in  muffin-rings  twenty  minutes  in  a 

quick  oven. 

Creak  Muffins.  4* 

1  quart  sweet  milk  (half-cream,  if  you  can  get  it). 
1     "      flour — heaping. 
6  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  and  the  same  of  lard — melted 
together. 

Beat  the  eggs  light — the  yolks  and  whites  separately ; 
add  the  milk,  with  a  little  salt,  then  the  shortening,  lastly 
the  flour,  stirring  in  lightly.  Bake  immediately  in  well- 
greased  rings  half  filled  with  the  batter.  Your  oven  should 
be  hot,  and  the  muffins  sent  to  table  so  soon  as  they  are 

taken  up. 

Buttermilk  Muffins. 

1  quart  buttermilk,  or  '^  loppered  "  sweet  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
1  <*  salt. 

-    Flour  to  make  good  batter. 


BBBAB.  293 

Beat  the  eggs  well  and  stir  them  into  the  milk,  beating 
hard  all  the  while ;  add  the  flour  and  salt,  and  at  the  last 
the  soda.     Bake  at  once  in  a  quick  oven. 

"Mother's"  Muffins.  bJ* 

1  pint  milk. 

legg. 

1  tablespoonful  lard. 

i  cup  yeast. 

Flour  for  stiff  batter. 

1  teaspoonfdl  salt. 

Set  to  rise  over  night. 

Chablotte  Muffiks.  •{< 

1  quart  of  flour. 

3  eggs — the  whites  and  jolks  beaten  separately  and 

until  stilf. 
3  cups  of  milk.     If  sour,  no  disadvantage,  if  soda  be 

added. 
A  little  salt. 

The  excellence  of  these  depends  upon  thorough  beat- 
ing and  quick  baking. 

Bice  Muffins.  ^^ 

1  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 

1  pint  of  flour. 

2  eggs. 

1  quart  of  milk,  or  enough  to  make  thin  batter. 
1  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter, 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Beat  hard  and  bake  quickly. 


294  OOHMON  BEN8E. 

HOKIKY  MUFFIKS.   »{« 

2  cups  fine  hominy — boiled  and  cold. 

3  eggs. 

3  cups  sour  milk.    If  sweet,  add  one  teaspoonful  cream- 
tartar. 
•}-  cnp  melted  butter. 
2  teaspoonfiils  salt. 
2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 
1  scant  cup  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Beat  the  hominj  smooth;  stir  in  the  millr,  then  the 
butter,  salt,  and  sugar ;  next  the  eggs,  which  should  first 
be  well  beaten ;  then  the  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water ; 
lastly  the  flour. 

There  are  no  more  delicious  or  wholesome  muffins  than 
these,  if  rightiy  mixed  and  quickly  baked. 

Belle's  Muffins. 

3  pints  of  flour. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

2  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  «  salt. 

Sift  the  cream-tartar  with  the  flour.  Beat  the  eggs 
very  light.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  hot  water.  Bake  in  rings 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Corn  Bread. 

There  is  a  marked  diflerence  between  the  corn-meal 
ground  at  the  South,  and  that  which  is  sent  out  from 
Northern  mills.  If  any  one  doubts  this,  it  is  not  she  who 
hajB  perseveringly  tried  both  kinds,  and  demonstrated  to 


BBEAD.  295 

her  own  conviction  that  the  same  treatment  will  not  do 
for  them.  An  intelligent  lady  once  told  me  that  the  shape 
of  the  particles  composing  the  meal  was  different — the  one 
being  round  and  smooth,  the  other  angular.  I  am  inclined 
to  believe  this.  The  Southern  meal  is  certainly  coarser, 
and  the  bread  made  from  it  less  compact.  Moreover,  there 
is  a  partiality  at  the  North  for  yellow  meal,  which  the 
Southerners  regard  as  only  fit  for  chicken  and  cattle-feed. 
The  yellow  may  be  the  sweeter,  but  I  acknowledge  that  I 
have  never  succeeded  in  making  really  nice  bread  from  it. 

Indian  meal  should  be  purchased  in  small  quantities, 
except  for  a  very  large  family.  It  is  apt  to  heat,  mould, 
and  grow  musty,  if  kept  long  in  bulk  or  in  a  warm  place. 
If  not  sweet  and  dry,  it  is  useless  to  expect  good  bread  or 
cakes.  As  an  article  of  diet,  especially  in  the  early  warm 
days  of  spring,  it  is  healthful  and  agreeable,  often  acting 
as  a  gentle  corrective  to  bile  and  other  disorders.  In 
winter,  also,  it  is  always  acceptable  upon  the  breakfast 
or  supper  table,  being  warming  and  nutritious.  In  sum- 
mer the  free  use  of  it  is  less  judicious,  on  account  of  its 
laxative  properties.  As  a  kindly  vaiiation  in  the  routine 
of  fine  white  bread  and  baker's  rolls,  it  is  worth  the  atten- 
tion of  every  housewife.  "John  and  the  children"  will 
like  it,  if  it  approximates  the  fair  standard  of  excellence ; 
and  I  take  it,  my  good  friend— you  who  have  patiently 
kept  company  with  me  from  our  prefatory  talk  until  now — 
that  you  love  them  well  enough  to  care  for  their  comfort 
and  likings. 

"  My  husband  is  wild  about  com  bread,"  a  wife  re- 
marked to  me  not  a  hundred  years  ago,  **  but  I  won't  make 
it  for  him ;  it  is  such  a  bother  I  And  if  I  once  indulge 
him,  he  will  give  me  no  peace." 

Beloved  sister,  I  am  persuaded  better  things  of  you. 
Good  husbands  cannot  be  spoiled  by  petting.     Bad  ones 


296  COMMON   SENSE. 

cannot  be  made  worse — they  may  be  made  better.  It  seems 
a  little  thing,  so  trifling  in  its  consequences,  you  need  not 
tire  fui-ther  your  aching  back  and  feet  to  accomplish  it — 
the  preparation  of  John's  fi^vorite  dish  when  he  does  not 
expect  the  treat — to  surprise  him  when  he  comes  in  cold 
and  hungry,  by  setting  "before  him  a  dish  of  hot  milk-toast., 
or  a  loaf  of  corn-bread,  brown  and  crisp  without,  yellow 
and  spongy  within,  instead  of  the  stereotyped  pile  of  cold 
slices,  brown  or  white.  If  he  were  consulted,  he  would 
say,  like  the  generous  soul  he  is — "  Don't  take  one  needless 
step  for  me,  dear."  And  he  would  mean  it.  But  for  all 
that,  he  will  enjoy  your  little  surprise — ay !  and  love  you 
the  better  for  it.  It  is  the  "  little  bv  little  "  that  makes 
up  the  weal  and  woe  of  life. 

May  I  make  this  digression  longer  yet,  by  telling  you 
what  I  overheard  a  husband  say  to  a  wife  the  other  day, 
when  he  thought  no  one  else  was  near  enough  to  hear  him  ? 
He  is  no  gourmand,  but  he  is  very  partial  to  a  certain  kind 
of  cruller  which  nobody  else  can  make,  he  thinks,  so  well 
as  his  little  wife.  It  so  chanced  that  in  frying  some  of  these 
she  scalded  her  hand  badly.  After  it  was  bandaged,  she 
brought  up  a  plate  of  the  cakes  for  his  luncheon.  He  look- 
ed at  them,  then  at  her,  with  a  loving,  mournful  smile. 

**  I  can  understand  now,"  said  he,  "  how  David  felt 
when  his  men-of-war  brought  him  the  water  fix)m  the  well 
of  Bethlehem." 

Then  he  stooped  and  kissed  the  injured  fingers.  Yet 
he  has  been  married  nearly  twenty  years.  I  was  not 
ashamed  that  my  eyes  were  moist.  I  honored  him  the  more 
that  his  were  dim. 

This  is  my  lesson  by  the  wayside  apropos  to  com  bread. 

And  now  again  to  business. 


BBEAD.  297 

Heceipts/br  Bread  made  of  Norihem  Indian  Meal. 

Nonpareil  Cobn  Bread.  Jj^ 

2  heaping  cups  of  Indian  meal. 
1  cup  of  flour. 

3  eggs. 

2^  cups  milk. 

1  tablespoonf\il  lard. 

2  "  white  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  '^  cream-tartar. 
1           «  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  thoroughly — whites  and  yolks  sep- 
arately— ^melt  the  lard,  sift  the  cream-tartar  and  soda  into 
the  meal  and  flour  while  yet  dry,  and  stir  this  in  at  the 
last.  Then,  to  borrow  the  direction  scribbled  by  a  rattle- 
tongaed  girl  upon  the  above  receipt,  when  she  sent  it  to 
me — '^  heai  like  mad  I ''  Bake  quickly  and  steadily  in  a 
buttered  mould.  Less  than  half  an  hour  will  usually  suffice. 
In  cutting  com  bi'ead  hold  the  knife  perpendicularly/  and 
cut  toward  you. 

Corn  Meal  Muffins. 

Mix  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  only  a  little  thin- 
ner, and  bake  in  rings  or  small  pattypans.  All  kinds  of 
com  bread  should  be  baked  quickly  and  eaten  while  hot. 

BiSEN  Corn  Bread. 

1  pint  Indian  meal. 

2  cups  risen  sponge,  taken  from  your  regular  baking  ot 

wheat  bread. 
^  cup  molasses,  or^  what  is   better,  4  tablespoonfuls 
white  sugar. 
13* 


298  OOHMOir  SENSE. 

1  teaspoonfiil  soda,  dissolyed  in  hot  water. 

1  tablespoonfiil  lard,  melted. 

1  cup  flour,  or  enough  for  stiff  batter. 

Mix  well,  put  to  rise  in  a  buttered  mould  until  very 
light.  Bake  one  hour.  It  is  well  to  scald  the  meal  and 
stir  in  while  blood-warm. 

Steamed  Corn  Bbead. 

2  cups  Indian  meal. 

1  cup  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

2^  cups  ^^  loppered ''  milk,  or  buttermilk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  «  salfc. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  lard,  melted. 

Beat  veiy  hard  and  long,  put  in  buttered  mould,  tie  a 
coarse  cloth  tightly  over  it,  and  if  you  have  no  steamer,  fit 
the  mould  in  the  top  of  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  taking  care 
it  does  not  touch  the  surface  of  the  liquid.  Lay  a  close 
cover  over  the  cloth  tied  about  the  mould,  to  keep  in  all  the 
heat.  Steam  one  hour  and  a  half,  and  set  in  an  oven  ten 
minutes.     Turn  out  upon  a  hot  plate,  and  eat  while  warm. 

This  will  do  for  a  plain  dessert,  eaten  with  pudding-sauce. 

Cobn-Meal  Cruhpets. 

1  quart  Indian  meal. 

1  ^*     boiled  milk. 

4  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 

2  "  white  sugar. 
2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  lard 

or  butter,  or  half-and-half. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 

Scald  the  meal  with  the  boiling  milk,  and  let  it  stand 


BBEAD.  299 

until  lukewarm.  Then  stir  in  the  sugar^  yeast,  and  salt, 
and  leave  it  to  rise  five  hours.  Add  the  melted  shortening, 
beat  well,  put  in  greased  muffin-rings,  set  these  near  the 
fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  bake.  Half  an  hour  in  a  quick 
oven  ought  to  cook  them. 

Never  cut  open  a  muffin  or  crumpet  of  any  kind,  least 
of  all  one  made  of  Indian  meal.  Pass  the  knife  lightly 
around  it  to  pierce  the  crust,  then  break  open  with  the 
fingers. 

Heceipis  for  Com  JBread  made  of  Southern  Indiom  Meal. 

Johnny  Cake. 

1  teacupful  sweet  milk. 

1         "        buttermilk. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  "        soda. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

Enough  meal  to  enable  you  to  roll  it  into  a  sheet  half 
an  inch  thick.  Spread  upon  a  buttered  tin,  or  in  a  shallow 
pan,  and  bake  forty  minutes.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  brown, 
baste  it  with  a  rag  tied  to  a  stick  and  dipped  in  melted  but- 
ter. Repeat  this  five  or  six  times  until  it  is  brown  and  crisp. 
Break — not  cut  it  up — and  eat  for  luncheon  or  tea,  accom- 
panied by  sweet  or  buttermilk. 

Aunt  Jenny's  Johnny  Cake. 

Mix  as  above ;  knead  well,  and  bake  upon  a  perfectly 
clean  and  sweet  board,  before  a  hot  fire,  with  something  at 
the  back  to  keep  it  up.  Incline  at  such  an  angle  as  will 
prevent  the  cake  from  slipping  off,  until  it  is  hardened 
slightly  by  baking,  then  place  upright.  Baste  fi^quently 
with  butter  until  nicely  crisped. 


800  COMMON  SENSE. 

Batter  Bread  or  "  Egg  Bread.^'  4^ 

Half  a  cup  of  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  a  pint  of  milk. 

2  eggs. 

2  cups  Indian  meal. 

1  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  ligbt,  and  the  soaked  bread-crumbs  to  a 
smooth  batter.  Melt  the  shortening.  Stir  all  together 
very  hard,  and  bake  in  shallow  tins  very  quickly. 

EisEN  Cork  Bread. 

Mix  a  tolerably  stiff  dough  of  corn-meal  and  boiling 
water,  a  little  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  butter.  Let  it  stand 
four  or  five  hours  until  light ;  make  into  small  loaves  and 
bake  rather  quickly. 

Corn-heal  Pone. 

1  quart  Indian  meal. 

1  teaspoonfuf  salt. 

A  little  lard,  melted. 

Cold  water  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Mould  with  the  hands  into  thin  oblong  cakes,  lay  in  a 
well-greased  pan,  and  bake  very  quickly. 

The  common  way  is  to  mould  into  oval  mounds,  higher 
in  the  middle  than  at  the  ends,  shaping  these  rapidly  and 
lightly  with  the  hands,  by  tossing  the  dough  over  and  over. 
This  is  done  with  great  dexteiity  by  the  Virginia  cooks, 
and  this  corn-meal  pone  forms  a  part  of  every  dinner.  It 
is  broken,  not  cut,  and  eaten  very  hot. 


GEIDDLE-CAKKS,   WAFFLES,  ETC.  801 

Ash  Cake 

Is  mixed  as  above.  A  clean  spot  is  swept  upon  the  liot 
heai'th,  the  bread  put  down  and  covered  with  hot  wood- 
ashes.  It  must  be  washed  and  wiped  dry  before  it  is  eaten. 
A  neater  way  is  to  lay  a  cabbage-leaf  above  and  below  the 
pone.  The  bread  is  thus  steamed  before  it  is  baked,  and  is 
made  ready  for  eating  by  stripping  off  the  leaves. 

Fried  Pone. 

Instead  of  moulding  the  dough  with  the  hands,  cut  into 
slices  with  a  knife.  Try  out  some  fat  pork  in  a  frying-pan, 
and  fry  the  slices  in  the  gravy  thus  obtained  to  a  light 
brown, 

Griddle-Caeies,  Waffles,  etc. 

If  you  have  not  used  your  griddle  or  waffle-iron  for 
some  time,  wash  it  off  hard  with  hot  soap  and  water ;  wipe 
and  rub  well  with  dry  salt.  Heat  it  and  grease  with  a  bit 
of  fat  salt  pork  on  a  fork.  It  is  a  mistake,  besides  being 
slovenly  and  wasteful,  to  put  on  more  grease  than  is  abso- 
lutely necessary  to  prevent  the  cake  from  sticking.  A  piece 
of  pork  an  inch  square  should  last  for  several  days.  Put 
on  a  great  spoonful  of  butter  for  each  cake,  and  before  fill- 
ing the  griddle  test  it  with  a  single  cake,  to  be  sure  that  all 
is  right  with  it  as  well  as  the  batter. 

The  same  rules  apply  to  waffles.  Always  lay  hot  cakes 
and  waffles  upon  a  hot  plate  as  soon  as  baked. 

Buckwheat  Cakes.  4^ 

1  quart  buckwheat  flour. 
4  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 
1  teaspoonfal  salt. 

1  handful  Indian  meal. 

2  tablespoonfuls  molasses — not  syrup. 


802  COMMON   SENSE. 

Warm  water  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Beat  yerj 
well  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  If  the  batter  is  in  the 
least  sour  in  the  morning,  stir  in  a  very  little  soda  dissolv- 
ed in  hot  water. 

Mix  in  an  earthen  crock,  and  leave  some  in  the  bottom 
each  morning — a  cupful  or  so — to  serve  as  sponge  for  the 
next  night,  instead  of  getting  fresh  yeast.  In  cold  weather 
this  plan  can  be  successfully  pui-sued  for  a  week  or  ten  days 
without  setting  a  new  supply.  Of  course  you  add  the  usual 
quantity  of  flour,  &c.,  every  night,  and  beat  up  well. 

Do  not  make  your  cakes  too  small.  Buckwheats  should 
be  of  generous  size.  Some  pUt  two-thii*ds  buckwheat,  one- 
third  oat-meal,  omitting  the  Indian. 

Flannel  Cakes.  4^ 

1  quart  milk. 

3  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Flour  to -make  a  good  batter.  Set  the  rest  of  the  ingrcH 
dients  as  a  sponge  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  add  the 
melted  butter  and  eggs. 

Corn-meal  Flatjacks. 

1  quart  sour  or  buttermilk. 

2  eggs,  beaten  light. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  ^^  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  molasses. 

1  *'  lard,  melted. 

i  cup  flour. 

Meal  to  make  a  batter  a  trifle  thicker  than  flannel  cakes. 


GBIDDLE-CAKE8,   WAFFLES,   ETC.  803 

Graham  Cakes.  4^ 

2  cups  brown  flour. 
1  cup  white        " 

3  cups  sour  OP  buttermilk. 

1  fuB  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
1  teaspoonfiil  salt. 
1  heaping  tablespoonful  lard. 
3  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 
If  you  use  sweet  milk,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  cream-tar- 
tar.    Bake  as  soon  as  they  are  mixed. 

Auntie's  Cakes  {without  JSgga), 

1  quart  sour  or  buttermilk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  soda  (small  ones). 
1  "  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  tolerably  thick  batter. 

stir  tmtU  smooth-no  longer-and  bake  immediately. 

Egoless  Flannel  Cakes. 

1  quart  milk. 

^  teacupful  yeast. 

2  cups  white  flour. 
1  cup  Indian  meal. 

1  tablespoonful  lard,  melted. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Set  over  night,  adding  the  lard  in  the  morning. 

Gbandpa's  Favorites.  ^ 

1  quart  milk. 

2  cups  stale  bread-crumbs. 
1  good  handful  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 


804  OOICMON  BEN8E. 

3  eggs,  woU  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Work  the  bread  and  TnilV  smooth,  stir  in  the  butter  and 
eggs,  then  the  salt,  lastly  just  enough  flour  to  bind  the 
mixture.  If  too  thick,  add  milk.  These  are  wholesome 
and  good.     Take  care  they  do  not  stick  to  the  griddle. 

Risen  Batter-Cakes. 

3  cups  white  Indian  meal. 
1  cup  white  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted  and  added  in  the  morn- 
ing. 
1  quart  milk. 

4  tablespoonf  uls  of  yeast. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  added  in 

the  morning. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Mix  over  night. 

EicE  Caeies.  4^ 

One  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 
One  pint  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Two  eggs  beaten  light. 

Milk  to  make  a  tolerably  thick  batter. 

Beat  all  together  well. 

-HoMimr  Cakes,  vf^ 

2  cups  flne  hominy,  boiled  and  cold. 
1  cup  white  flour. 

1  quart  milk. 

3  eggs,  very  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 


QBIDDLB-CAESS,   WAPFLEB,   ETC.  305 

Beat  smooth  tbe  hominy,  work  in  the  milk  and  salt, 
then  the  flour,  lastly  the  eggs.  Bake  at  once,  and  keep  the 
mixture  weU  stirred. 

CsEAH  Cakes,  t^ 

1  pint  cream  and  same  quantity  of  milk,  slightly  sour. 

4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  whipped  separately. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1  "  salt. 

Elour  to  make  a  good  batter,  well  beaten  in. 

Velvet  Cakes. 

1  quart  new  unskimmed  millr — half  cream  and  half 

milk  is  preferable. 
3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very 

stifF. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Eice  flour. 

Mix  the  beaten  yolks  with  the  milk,  add  the  salt,  then 
rice  flour  to  make  a  batter  thick  as  that  for  flannel  cakes  ; 
lastly,  '^rhip  in  the  stifilened  whites  very  lightly,  and  bake 
immediately. 

Risen  Waffles. 

1  quart  milk. 

1  heaping  quart  flour. 
5  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 

2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Set  the  mixture — ^minus  the  eggs  and  butter — over 
night  as  a  sponge ;  add  these  in  the  morning,  and  bake  in 
waffle-irons. 


306  oohmok  8en8b. 

"  Mother's  "  Waffles.  •!• 
2  cups  milk. 

2  eggs. 

3  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-tartar. 

i  "  soda. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

Sift  the  cream-tartar  into  the  flour  ^th  the  salt.  Dis- 
solve the  soda  in  a  little  hot  water.  Beat  the  eggs  very 
well.  Add  the  flour  the  la^t  thing.  If  the  batter  is  too 
stifl*,  put  in  more  mUk. 

Rice  Waffles  {No.  1).  4^ 

1  cup  boiled  rice. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

Lardy  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
•J-  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  '^  cream-tartar. 

1  «  salt. 

Flour  for  a  thin  batter. 

Rice  Waffles  (iVo.  2). 

1  quart  milk. 

1  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 

3  cups  rice  flour,  or  enough  for  thin  batter. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Quick  Waffles. 

1  pint  milk. 

3  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 


SHORTCAKE,   BTO.  307 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

1  teajBpoonful  cream-tartar  sifted  in  the  flour. 

•}-  "  Boda. 

1  «  salt. 

A  heaping  pint  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  soft  batter. 

KicE  AND  Cobn-Meal  Wapfles. 

1  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 

•}-  cup  white  flour,  and  same  of  corn-meal. 

2  e^s  well  whipped,  and  milk  to  make  soft  batter. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

•^  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  «  of  salt. 

Beat  the  mixture  smooth  before  baking. 
Be  especiallj  careful  in  greasing  jour  irons  for  these 
waffles,  as  for  all  which  contain  rice. 

Shortcake,  <&c. 

Sunnyhank  Shortcake  {for  frui£),  ^ 

2  quarts  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lard. 

3  "  butter. 

2^  cups  sour  or  buttermilk.     "  Loppered  "  cream  is 

still  better. 
2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
1  "  salt. 

Chop  up  the  shortening  in  the  salted  flour,  as  for  pastry. 
Add  the  eggs  and  soda  to  the  milk  ;  put  all  together,  hand- 
ling as  little  as  may  be.  Boll  lightly  and  quickly  into  two 
sheets,  the  one  intended  for  the  upper  crust  fully  half  an 


308  COMMON  BEKBB. 

inch  thick,  the  lower  less  than  this.  Laj  the  latter  smooth- 
ly in  a  well-greased  baJdng-pan,  strew  it  thiddy  with  rasp- 
berries, blackberries,  or,  what  is  better  jet,  huckleberries ; 
sprinkle  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  over  these, 
cover  with  the  thicker  crust,  and  bake  from  twenty  to 
twenty-five  minutes,  until  nicely  browned,  but  not  dried. 
Eat  hot  for  bi-eakfast  with  butter  and  powdered  sugar. 

If  sweet  milk  be  used,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  cream- 
tartar  sifted  into  the  dry  flour.  It  should  be  mixed  afi  soft 
as  can  be  rolled.  This  shortcake  is  very  nice  made  with 
the  common  ^'  black-caps  "  or  wild  raspberries. 

Stbawbebry  Shobtcake.  4^ 

1  quart  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  large  cup  sour  cream  or  very  rich  "  loppered  "  milk. 

legg. 

1  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

Proceed,  in  mixing  and  baking,  as  with  the  huckleberry 
short-cake,  except  that,  instead  of  putting  the  benies  be- 
tween the  crust,  you  lay  one  slieet  of  paste  smootlily  upon 
the  other,  and  bake  until  done.  While  warm — not  hot — 
separate  these.  They  will  come  apart  easily,  just  where 
they  were  joined.  Lay  upon  the  lower  a  thick  coating, 
several  deep,  of  strawberries;  sprinkle  powdered  sugar 
among  and  over  them;  cover  with  the  upper  crust.  It 
is  best  to  bake  strawberry  shortcake  in  round  jelly-cake 
tins,  or  round  pans  a  little  deeper  than  these,  as  they 
should  be  sent  to  table  whole,  while  the  hot  short-cake  is 
generally  out  into  square  slices,  and  piled  upon  a  plate. 

Strawberry  shortcake  is  esteemed  a  great  delicacy  in 


SHORTCAKE,   ETC.  309 

its  season.  It  is  eaten  at  tea,  cut  into  triangles  like  pie, 
and  sweet  cream  poured  oyer  each  slice,  with  more  sugar 
sifted  over  it,  if  desired. 

Scotch  Shqrt-bread. 

2  lbs.  flour. 

1  lb.  best  butter. 

i  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

Chop  the  flour  and  butter  together,  having  made  the 
latter  quite  soft  by  setting  it  near  the  fire.  Knead  in  the 
sugar,  roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  in 
shapes  with  a  cake-cutter.  Bake  upon  buttered  paper  in  a 
shallow  tin  untU  crisp  and  of  a  delicate  yellowish  brown. 

Grandma's  Shortcake. 

1  lb.  flour,  dried  and  sifted. 
}  lb.  butter,  and  half  as  much  lard. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 

A  pinch  of  soda,  thoroughly  dissolved  in  just  enough 
vinegar  to  cover  it,  and  well  worked  in. 

Enough  ice-water  to  enable  you  to  roll  out  into  paste 
half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into  squares,  prick  with  a  fork,  and 
bake  light  brown.     Split,  butter,  and  eat  while  hot. 

Easter  Buns  ("-ffb^  Cross^^),  •!• 

3  cups  sweet  milk. 

1  cup  yeast. 

Flour  to  make  thick  batter. 

Set  this  as  a  sponge  over  night.     In  the  morning  add — 

1  cup  sugar. 
^  cup  butter,  melted. 
^  nutmeg. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 


810  CX)MMON   8ENBB. 

Flour  enough  to  roll  out  like  biscuit.  Knead  well,  and 
set  to  rise  for  five  Lours.  KoU  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into 
round  cakes,  and  lay  in  rows  in  a  buttered  baking-pan. 
When  they  have  stood  half  an  hour,  make  a  cross  upon 
each  with  a  knife,  and  put  instantly  into  the  oven.  Bake 
to  a  light  brown,  and  brush  over  with  a  feather  or  soft 
bit  of  rag,  dipped  in  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  up  stiff 
with  white  sugar. 

These  are  the  "  hot  cross-buns"  of  the  "  London  cries." 

Plain  Buns 

Are  made  as  above,  but  not  rolled  into  a  sheet.  Knead 
them  like  biscuit-dough,  taking  care  not  to  get  it  too  stiff, 
and  after  the  five-hour  rising,  work  in  two  or  three  hand- 
fuls  of  cuiTants  which  have  been  previously  well  washed 
and  dredged  with  flour.  Mould  with  your  hands  into 
round  balls,  set  these  closely  together  in  a  pan,  that  tliey 
may  form  a  loaf — "  one,  yet  many  " — when  baked.  Let 
them  stand  nearly  an  hour,  or  until  very  light ;  then  bake 
from  half  to  three-quaiters  of  an  hour  until  brown.  Wash 
them  over  while  hot  with  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar. 

These  are  generally  eaten  cold,  or  barely  warm,  and  are 
best  the  day  they  are  baked. 

Cake. 

Use  none  but  the  best  materials  for  making  cake.  If 
you  cannot  afford  to  get  good  flour,  dry  white  sugar,  and 
the  best  family  butter,  make  up  your  mind  to  go  without 
your  cake,  and  eat  plain  bread  with  a  clear  conscience. 

There  are  no  intermediate  degrees  of  quality  in  eggs. 
I  believe  I  have  said  that  somewhere  else,  but  it  ought  to 
be  repeated  just  here.  They  should  be,  like  Ctesar^s  wife, 
above  suspicion.  A  tin  wliisk  or  whip  is  best  for  beat- 
ing them.     All  kinds  of  cake  are  better  for  having  the 


CAKE.  311 

whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately.  Beat  the  former  in  a 
large  shallow  dish  until  you  can  cut  through  the  froth  with 
a  knife,  leaving  as  clear  and  distinct  an  incision  as  you 
would  in  a  solid  substance.  Beat  the  yolks  in  an  earthen- 
ware bowl  until  they  cease  to  froth,  and  thicken  as  if  misced 
with  flour.  Have  the  dishes  cool — ^not  too  cold.  It  is 
hard  to  whip  whites  stiff  in  a  warm  room. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Cakes  often  fail 
because  this  rule  is  not  followed.  Beat  these  as  faithfully 
as  you  do  the  eggs,  warming  the  butter  very  slightly  if 
hard.  Use  only  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon  in  this  as  in 
other  parts  of  your  work.  I  have  heard  of  silver  egg- 
whips,  but  they  are  not  likely  to  come  into  general  use,  ex- 
cept where  the  mistress  makes  all  the  cake,  pudding,  etc. 

Do  not  use  fresh  and  stale  milk  in  the  same  cake.  It  acts 
as  disastrously  as  a  piece  of  new  cloth  in  an  old  garment. 
Sotir  milk  makes  a  spongy  cake ;  sweet,  one  closer  in  grain. 

Study  the  moods  and  tenses  of  your  oven  carefully  be- 
fore essaying  a  loaf  of  cake.  Confine  your  early  efforts  to 
tea-cakes  and  the  like.  Jelly-cake,  baked  in  shallow  flat 
tins,  is  good  practice  during  the  novitiate.  Keep  the  heat 
steady,  and  as  good  at  bottom  as  hot. 

Streaks  in  cake  are  caused  by  unskilful  mixing,  too 
rapid  or  unequal  baking,  or  a  sudden  decrease  in  heat  be- 
fore the  cake  is  quite  done. 

DonH  delude  yourself,  and  maltreat  those  who  are  to 
eat  your  cake,  by  trying  to  make  soda  do  the  whole  or  most 
of  the  duty  of  eggs.  Others  have  tried  it  before,  with  un- 
fortunate results.  If  curiosity  tempt  you  to  the  experi- 
ment, you  had  better  allay  it  by  buying  some  sponge-cake 
at  the  comer  bakery. 

Test  whether  a  cake  is  done  by  running  a  clean  straw 
into  the  thickest  part.     It  should  come  up  clean. 

Do  not  leave  the  ovon-door  open,  or  change  the  cake 


312  COMMON   BEN8K 

from  one  oven  to  the  other,  except  in  extreme  cases.  If  it 
harden  too  fast  on  the  top,  cover  with  paper.  It  should 
rise  to  full  height  before  the  crust  forms. 

Except  for  gingerbread,  use  none  but  white  sugar. 

Always  sift  the  flour. 

Be  accurate  in  your  weights  and  measures. 

There  is  no  short  road  to  good  fortune  in  cake-snaking. 
What  is  worOh  doing  at  all  is  worth  doing  well.  There  is 
no  disgrace  in  not  having  time  to  mix  and  bake  a  cake. 
You  may  well  be  ashamed  of  yourself  if  you  are  too  lazy, 
or  careless,  or  hurried  to  beat  your  eggs,  crq^  your  butter 
and  sugar,  or  measure  your  ingredients. 

Yet,  sometimes,  when  you  believe  you  have  left  no 
means  untried  to  deserve  success,  fGolure  is  your  portion. 
What  then  ? 

If  the  cake  be  uneatable,  throw  it  away  upon  the  first 
beggar-boy  who  comes  for  broken  meat,  and  say  nothing 
about  it.  If  streaky  or  burned,  cut  out  the  best  parts, 
make  them  presentable  as  possible,  and  give  them  to  John 
and  the  children  as  a  ^^  second-best "  treat.  Then  keep  up 
a  brave  heart  and  try  again.  You  may  not  satisfy  your- 
self in  a  dozen  trials.  You  certainly  wiU  not,  if  you  never 
make  another  attempt. 

Cake  should  be  wrapped  in  a  thick  cloth  as  soon  as 
cool,  and  kept  in  tight  tin  boxes.  Do  not  cut  more  at  a 
time  than  you  are  likely  to  use,  as  it  is  not  good  when  dry. 
Jelly-cakes  are  best  set  away  upon  plates,  cloths  wrapped 
closely  about  them,  and  a  box  enclosing  all. 

Cream  your  sugar  and  butter,  measure  milk,  spices,  etc., 
before  beginning  work.  For  fruit-cake  it  is  best  to  pre- 
pare the  matezials  the  day  before.  Let  your  icing  dry 
thoroughly  before  wrapping  up  the  cake. 

Sift  yowr  flour  before  measuring^  as  all  the  following 
receipts  are  for  sifted  flour. 


OAKE.  313 

ICINO.  ^ 

Whites  of  4  eggs. 

1  pound  powdered  white  sugar. 

Lemon,  vanilla,  or  other  seasoning. 

Break  the  whites  into  a  broad,  clean,  cool  dish.  Throw 
a  small  handful  of  sugar  upon  them,  and  begin  whipping  it 
in  with  long,  even  strokes  of  the  beater.  A  few  minutes 
later,  throw  in  more  sugar,  and  keep  adding  it  at  intervals 
until  it  is  all  used  up.  Beat  perse veringly — always  with  a 
regular,  sweeping  movement  of  the  whisk — until  the  icing 
is  of  a  smooth,  fine,  and  firm  texture.  Half  an  hour's 
beating  should  be  sufficient,  if  done  well.  If  not  stifi*  en- 
ough, put  in  more  sugar.  A  little  practice  will  teach  you 
when  your  end  is  gained.  If  you  season  with  lemon-juice, 
allow,  in  measuring  your  sugar,  for  the  additional  liquid. 
Lemon-juice  or  a  very  little  tartaric  acid  w^hitens  the  icing. 
Use  at  least  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  egg. 

This  method  of  making  icing  was  taught  me  by  a  con- 
fectioner, as  easier  and  surer  than  the  old  plan  of  beating 
the  eggs  first  and  alone.  I  have  used  no  other  since  my 
first  trial  of  it.  The  frosting  hardens  in  one-fourth  the 
time  required  under  the  former  plan,  and  not  more  than 
half  the  time  is  consumed  in  the  manufacture.  I  have 
often  iced  a  cake  but  two  hours  before  it  was  cut,  and  found 
the  sugar  dry  all  through. 

Pour  the  icing  by  the  spoonful  on  the  top  of  the  cake 
and  near  the  centre  of  the  surface  to  be  covered.  If  the 
loaf  is  of  such  a  shape  that  the  liquid  will  settle  of  itself  to 
its  place,  it  is  best  to  let  it  do  so.  If  you  spread  it,  use  a 
broad-bladed  knife,  dipped  in  cold  water.  If  it  is  as  thick 
with  sugar  as  it  should  be,  you  need  not  lay  on  more  than 
one  coat.  You  may  set  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three 
minutes,  if  you  are  in  great  haste.     The  better  plan  is  to 

U 


314  COMMON   SENSE. 

dry  in  a  sunny  window,  where  the  air  can  get  at  it,  and 
where  there  is  no  dust. 

Color  icing  yellow  by  putting  the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon 
or  orange  in  a  thin  muslin  bag,  straining  a  little  juice 
through  it,  and  squeezing  it  hard  into  the  ogg  and  sugar. 

Strawberry -juice  coloi*s  a  pretty  [)ink,  as  does  also  cran- 

berrj'-syrup. 

Almond  Icing. 

Whites  of  four  eggs. 
1  pound  Rwect  almond.s. 
1      "      powdered  sugar. 
A  little  rose-water. 

Blanch  the  almonds  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them 
and  stripping  off  the  skins.  Wlien  dry,  pound  them  to  a 
paste,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  a  Wcdgewood  mortar,  moistening 
it  with  rose-water  as  you  go  on.  When  beaten  fine  and 
smooth,  beat  gradually  into  icing,  prepai*ed  according  to 
foregoing  receipt. 

Put  on  very  thick,  and,  when  nearly  dry,  cover  with 

plain  icing. 

This  is  \'crv  fine. 

Or, 

Mingle  a  few  bitter  almonds  with  the  sweet.     The  blended 
flavor  of  these  and  the  rose  water  is  very  pleasant. 

Mautiia'*s  Cake  {For  JcUy),  ^ 
3  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Butter,  the  size  of  an  egg. 

1  cup  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  cream- tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour. 

\  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  milk. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  and  sprejid,  when  cold,  with 
fruit  jellv, 


k. 


CAKE.  815 

This  is,  although  so  simple  and  inexpensive,  an  admira- 
ble foundation  for  the  various  kinds  of  jelly,  cream,  and 
meringue  cake,  which  are  always  popular.  It  seldom  fails, 
and  when  well  mixed  and  baked,  is  very  nice. 

Mrs.  M.'s  Cup  Cake.  ^ 

1  cup  butter. 

2  "     sugar. 

3  cups  flour 

4  eggs. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Bake  in  a  loaf,  or  as  jelly-cake. 

Cream-Cake.  ^ 

2  cups  powdered  sugar, 
f  cupful  butter. 

4  eggs. 

^  cupful  milk. 

\  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  "  cream-taHar. 

3  cups  flour. 

Bake  in  thin  layers  as  for  jelly-cake,  and  spread  be- 
tween them  when  cold  the  following  mixture  : — 

\  pint  of  milk. 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  corn-starch. 

1  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

^  cup  sugar. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  the  corn-starch 
wet  with  a  little  cold  milk ;  take  out  a  little  and  mix  grad- 
ually with  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar ;  return  to  the  rest  of 
the  custard,  and  boil,  stirring  constantly  until  quite  thick. 


316  COMMON  BENBE. 

Let  it  cool  before  you  season,  and  spread  on  cake.     Season 
the  icing  also  with  vanilla. 

Jelly-Cake, 

1  lb.  sugar. 

1   "  flour. 

i  "  butter. 

6  eggs. 

1  cup  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  **  cream-tartar. 

Bake  in  shallow  tins,  and,  when  cool,  put  jelly  between. 

C0C0A2fUT-CAKE.  4^ 

2  cups  powdered  sugar. 
^  cup  butter, 

3  eggs. 

1  cup  milk. 
3  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Bake  as  for  jelly-cake. 

MUing. 
1  grated  cocoanut. 

To  one-half  of  this  add  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a 
froth,  and  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar.     Lay  this  be- 
tween the  layers. 
Mix  with  the  other  half  of  the  grated  cocoanut  four 
tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  and  strew  thickly  on  top 

of  cake. 

Hosiers  Cocoanut-Cake. 

2  cups  flour. 
I J    "    sugar. 


CAKE.  317 

i  cup  butter. 

^   "    sweet  milk. 

3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-tartar. 

J  '*  soda. 

Sift  cream-tartar  and  soda  into  the  dry  flour ;  cream 
the  butter  and  sugar ;  add  the  beaten  eggs,  then  the  milk ; 
lastly  the  flour.     Bake  in  jeUy-cake  tins. 

Grate  one  cocoanut ;  mix  with  it  a  cup  and  a  half  of 
white  sugar,  also  the  milk  of  the  cocoanut.  Set  the  mix- 
ture in  the  oven  until  the  sugar  melts;  then  spread  be- 
tween the  cakes. 

Loaf  Cocoanut  Cake. 
1  lb.  sugar. 
i  "  butter. 
6  eggs.. 
^  lb.  flour. 

1  '^  finely  grated  cocoanut,  stirred  lightly  in  the  last 
thing. 

Bake  immediately. 

"One,  Two,  Thkee,  Foub"  Cocoanut-Cake. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  "    flour. 

4  eggs  (the  whites  only). 

1  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-tartar,  )    .^,, ,  .  ,    ,,     „ 
I  ic  ^wi  I  sifted  into  the  flour. 

•J-  soda,  ) 

^  small  cocoanut,  stirred  in  at  the  last. 


818  COMMON  BEK8E. 

Cocoanut-Cakes  {Small), 

1  cocoanut,  carefully  skinned  and  grated. 

Milk  of  the  same. 

1^  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

As  much  water  as  you  have  cocoanut  milk. 

Whites  of  three  eggs. 

Dissolve  one  pound  of  sugar  in  the  milk  and  water. 
Stew  until  it  becomes  a  "  ropy  "  syrup,  and  turn  out  into 
a  buttered  dish.  Have  ready  the  beaten  white  of  egg, 
with  the  remaining  half-pound  of  sugar  whipped  into  it ; 
mix  with  this  the  grated  cocoanut,  and  little  by  little, 
beating  all  the  while  the  boiled  syrup,  so  soon  as  it  cools 
sufficiently  not  to  scald  the  eggs.  Drop  in  tablespoonfuls 
upon  buttered  papers.  Tiy  one  first,  and  if  it  runs,  beat 
in  more  sugar.  Bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven,  watching 
to  prevent  scorching.  Tliey  should  not  be  suffered  to 
brown  at  all. 

These  will  keep  some  time,  but  are  best  quite  fresh. 

Cocoanut  Conks. 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
J  "  grated  cocoanut. 
Whites  of  6  eggs. 

Whip  the  eggs  as  for  icing,  adding  the  sugar  as  you  go 
on,  iintil  it  will  stand  alone,  then  beat  in  the  cocoanut. 

Mould  the  mixture  with  your  hands  into  small  cones, 
and  set  these  far  enough  apart  not  to  touch  one  another, 
upon  buttered  paper  in  a  baking-pan.  Bake  in  a  very  modo- 
i-ate  oven. 

Lee  Cake.  4^ 

10  eggs. 
1  lb.  sugar. 


CAK£.  319 

J  lb.  flour. 
2  lemons. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately';  add  to  all  the  yolks 
and  the  whites  of  seven  eggs  the  sugar,  the  lind  of  two 
lemons,  and  juice  of  one.     Bake  as  for  jelly-cake. 

To  the  whites  of  three  eggs  allow  a  pound  and  a  quai-ter 
of  powdered  sugar ;  beat  stiff  as  for  icing,  take  out  enough 
to  cover  the  top  of  the  cake  and  set  aside.  Add  to  the  rest 
the  juice  and  half  the  grated  rind  of  a  large  orange.  When 
the  cake  is  nearly  cold,  spread  this  between  the  layers. 
Beat  into  the  icing  resei*ved  for  the  top  a  little  lemon-juice, 
and,  if  needed,  more  sugar.  It  should  be  stiffer  than  that 
spread  between  the  cakes. 

You  can  make  a  very  delightful  variation  of  this  elegant 
cake,  by  spreading  the  orange  icing  between  layers  made  ac- 
cording to  the  receipt  given  for  "  Martha's  Jelly-Cake " 
several  pages  back,  and  frosting  with  lemon  mMtigiie^  as 
above. 

WniTE-MoUNTAIN   CaKE. 

3  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  butter. 

^   "     sweet  milk. 

Whites  of  ten  eggs. 

\  teaspoonful  soda,  )    .  -    ,     .  ,     ,     ^ 

1  "  cream-tai-tar,  j 

4}  cups  flour. 

Flavor  with  essence  of  bitter  almond. 

Icing,  whites  of  3  eggs,  1  lb.  powdered  sugar.  Flavor 
with  lemon-juice.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  and  All  with 
grated  cocoanut,  sweetened  with  a  quarter  of  its  weight  of 
powdered  sugar,  or  with  icing  such  as  is  made  for  Lee  cake, 
only  flavored  with  lemon  entirely. 


320  COMMON   8EN8E. 

French  Cake. 
1  lb.  sugar. 

i"    butter. 

1  "    currants,  washed  clean  and  dredged  with  flour. 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

Nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

<j^  teaspoonful  sOda  dissolved  in  three    tablespoonfuls 
milk. 

Lemon-Cake  (No,  1). 

1  lb.  sugar. 

12  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
^  lb.  flour. 

Juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon. 
Icing  flavored  with  same. 
Baked  in  small  square  tins,  and  iced  on  sides  and  top, 
these  are  sometimes  called  biscuits  glaces. 

Lemon-Cake  (xVb.  2). 

1  cup  of  butter  (packed). 

2  scant  cuj^s  of  sugar. 

10  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately. 
1  small  cup  of  milk. 
Juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon. 
1  small  teaspoonful  soda. 

Flour  to  make  tolerably  thin  batter  (between  two  and 
three  cups).  Of  some  qualities  of  flour  three  cups  will  be 
needed. 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Lady-Cake  {No,  1). 

\  lb.  butter. 
1    "  flour. 


CAKE.  321 

8  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-tartAr. 

^  *'         soda. 

1  lb.  sugar. 

1  pint  milk. 

Lady-Cake  (iVT?.  2).  »J^ 

1  lb.  sugar. 

J   *'  sifted  flour. 

6  oz.  butter. 

The  whipped  whites  of  ten  eggs. 

Flavor  with  bitter  almond,  and  bake  in  square,  not  very 
deep  tins.  Flavor  the  frosting  with  vanilla.  The  combina- 
tion is  very  pleasant. 

Sister  Mag's  Cake.  4^ 

2^  cups  powdered  sugar. 
J  cup  of  butter. 
1      "   sweet  milk. 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

1  lemon,  juice  and  rind. 
1  small  teaspoonful  soda. 

Bake  in  a  square  or  oblong  tin,  and  frost  with  whites 
of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  powdered  sj^gar. 

DovEB  Cake.  4^ 

1  lb.  flour. 

1    "  white  sugar. 

^   ^^  butter,  rubbed  with  the  sugar  to  a 

very  light  cream. 
6  eggs. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.- 
14* 


322  COWdON  SENSE. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  vinegar. 
1  "  powdered  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonfiU  rose-water. 

Flavor  the  frosting  with  lemon-juice. 

Chocolate  Cake,  t^* 

2  cups  of  sugar. 
1  cup  butter. 

The  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  whites  of  two. 
1  cup  of  milk. 

3  J  cups  flour. 

^  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  "  cream-tartar,  sifted  into  the  flour. 

Bake  in  jelly -cake  tins. 

Mixture  for  JUling, 

Whites  of  three  e^s. 

\\  cup  sugar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Beat  well  together,  spread  between  the  layei-s  and  on 

top  of  cake. 

Caramel  Cake.  ^ 

i  cups  sugar. 
1^  «     butter. 

1  cup  milk. 
4^  cups  flour. 
5  eggs. 

Small  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 


CASE.  823 

Caramd  for  filling, 

1 J  cup  brown  sugar. 
\  cup  milk. 
1    ''    molasses. 
1  teaspoonful  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  flour 

2  *'  cold  water. 

Boil  this  mixture  live  minutes,  add  half  a  cake  Baker's 
chocolate  (grated),  boil  iintil  it  is  the  consistency  of  rich 
custard.  Add  a  pinch  of  soda,  stir  well,  and  remove  from 
fire. 

When  cold,  flavor  with  a  large  teaspoonful  vanilla,  and 
spread  between  the  layers  of  cake,  which  should  be  baked 
as  for  jelly-cake.  Cover  the  top  with  the  same,  and  set  in 
an  open,  sunny  window  to  dry. 

The  above  quantity  will  make  two  largo  cakes. 

Marble  Cake. 

lAghL 

1  cup  white  sugar. 
\    "    butter. 
\    ''    milk. 
Whites  of  3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-taHar. 
\  "  soda. 

2  cups  flour. 

Danrk, 

\  cup  brown  sugar. 

\    "    butter. 
\    ^^    molasses, 
i    "    milk. 


324  COMMON   BEN8K 

^  uutmeg. 

1  tcaspoonful  cinnamon. 
^  "  allspice. 

^  "  soda. 

1  ^'  cream-tartai*. 

2  cups  flour. 
Yolks  of  three  eggs. 

Butter  your  mould,  and  put  in  the  dark  and  light  bat- 
ter in  alternate  tablespoonfuls. 

Marbled  Cake,  t^* 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar. 

3  "    flour. 

4  eggs. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

^  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  "  cream-tartar  sifted  with  the  flour. 

When  the  cake  is  mixed  take  out  about  a  teacupful  of 
the  batter,  and  stii*  into  this  a  great  spoonful  of  grated 
chocolate,  wet  with  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  milk.  Fill 
your  mould  about  an  inch  deep  with  the  yellow  batter,  and 
drop  upon  this,  in  two  or  three  places,  a  spoonful  of  the 
dark  mixture.  Give  to  the  brown  spots  a  slight  stir  with 
the  tip  of  your  spoon,  spi^eading  it  in  broken  circles  upon 
the  lighter  surface.  Pour  in  more  yellow  batter,  then  drop 
in  the  brown  in  the  same  manner  as  before,  proceeding  in 
this  order  until  all  is  used  up.  When  cut,  the  cake  will 
be  found  to  be  handsomely  variegated. 

Or, 

You  may  color  the  reserved  cupful  of  batter  with  enough 
prepared  cochineal  to  give  it  a  fine  pink  tint,  and  mix  as 
you  do  the  brown. 


CAKE.  326 

Chocolate  Icing  {/Simple). 

^  cake  chocolate. 

i  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  corn-starch. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Mix  together  these  ingredients,  with  the  exception  of 
the  vanilla ;  boil  it  two  minutes  (after  it  has  hiriy  come  to 
a  boil),  flavor,  and  then  sweeten  to  taste  with  powderod 
sugar,  taking  care  to  make  it  sweet  enough. 

Caramels  {Chocolate). 

2  cups  brown  sugar. 
1  cup  molasses. 

1  tablespoonful  (heaping)  of  butter. 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

Boil  twenty-five  minutes  ;  then  stir  in  half  a  pound  of 
grated  chocolate  wet  in  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  boil 
imtil  it  hardens  on  the  spoon,  with  which  you  must  stir  it 
frequently.     Flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Chocolate  ficLAins. 
4  eggs. 

The  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sugar. 
Half  their  weight  in  flour. 

J  teaspoonful  soda,  )  sifted  well  with  the 

^  "  cream-tartar,  )       flour. 

If  you  bake  these  often,  it  will  be  worth  your  while  to 
have  made  at  the  tinner^s  a  set  of  small  tins,  about  five 
inches  long  and  two  wide,  round  at  the  bottom,  and  kept 
firm  by  strips  of  tin  connecting  them.  If  you  cannot  get 
these,  tack  stiff  writing-paper  into  the  same  shape,  stitch- 
ing each  of  the  little  canoes  to  its  neighbor  after  the  man- 


326  COMMON  SENSE. 

iier  of  a  pontoon  bridge.  Have  these  made  and  buttered 
before  you  mix  the  cake ;  put  a  spoonful  of  batter  in  each, 
and  bake  in  a  steady  oven.  When  nearly  cold,  cover  the 
rounded  side  with  a  caramel  icing,  made  according  to  the 
foregoing  receipt. 

These  little  cakes  are  popular  favorites,  and  with  a  lit- 
tle practice  can  be  easily  and  quickly  made. 

Ellie^s  Cake.  »{< 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

i       "      butter. 

3  eggs. 

^  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-tartar. 

i  "  soda. 

2^  cups  flour. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  and  fill  with  jelly  or  chocolate. 
A  simple  and  excellent  cake. 

Sponge  Cake. 

1  teacup  powdered  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

^  teaspoonful  cream-tartiir. 

J  "  soda. 

1  teacupful  flour. 

Flavor  with  lemon — half  the  juice  and  half  the  lind  of 
one.     Bake  twenty  minutes  in  shallow  tins. 

Mrs.  M.'s  Sponge-Cake.  »!• 
12  eggs. 

The  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sugar. 
Half  their  weight  in  flour. 
1  lemon,  juice  and  rind. 


CAKE.  327 

Beat  jolks  and  whites  very  light,  the  sugar  into  the 
former  when  they  are  smooth  and  stiff;  next,  the  juice  and 
grated  peel  of  the  lemon,  then  the  flour ;  lastly,  the  beaten 
whites,  veri/  lightly. 

The  lady  from  whom  I  had  this  admirable  receipt  was 
celebrated  among  her  acquaintances  for  her  beautiful  and 
delicious  sponge-cake. 

"Which  should  always  be  baked  in  tins  like  these," 
she  said  to  me  once,  sportively,  "  or  it  does  not  taste  just 
right." 

The  moulds  were  like  a  large  brick  in  shape,  with  al- 
most perpendicular  sides.  I  instantly  gave  an  order  for  a 
couple  precisely  like  them,  and  really  fancied  that  cake 
baked  in  them  was  a  little  better  than  in  any  other  form. 
But  you  can  hardly  fail  of  success  if  you  prepare  yours  pre- 
cisely as  I  have  directed,  bake  in  whatever  shape  you  will. 
Be  careful  that  your  oven  is  steady,  and  cover  the  cake 
with  paper,  to  prevent  biuning. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  line  the  pans  in  which  sponge-cake 
is  baked  with  buttered  paper,  fitted  neatly  to  the  sides 
and  bottom. 

Pound  Cake  (iV^o.  1). 

1  lb.  sugar. 

1  "  floui'. 
J   ''  butter. 
9  eggs.. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
1  "  soda. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  with  gi-eat  care ;  beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  separately;  sift  the  cream-tartar  well 
through  the  flour.     Add  the  flour  last. 


828  COMMON   8KN8E« 

Pound  Cake  (No.  2). 

1  lb.  flour. 

1  "   eggs. 

1  "  sugar. 

i  "   butter. 

1  glass  brandy. 

1  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  mace. 

Cream  half  the  flour  with  the  butter,  and  add  brandy  and 
spice.  Beat  the  yolks  until  light,  add  the  sugar,  then  the 
beaten  whites  and  the  rest  of  the  flour  alternately.  When 
this  is  thoroughly  mixed,  put  all  together  and  beat  steadily 
for  half  an  hour.  ^ 

If  properly  made  and  baked  this  is  a  splendid  cake. 

Washington  Cake. 

3  cups  sugar. 

2     «     butter. 
5  eggs. 

1  cup  milk. 

4  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Mix  as  usual  and  stir  in,  at  the  last, 
^  lb.  currants  well  washed  and  dredged. 
J  "   raisins  seeded  and  chopped  fine,  then  floured. 
A  handful  of  citron  sliced  fine. 
Cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Fruit-cake  takes  lonc^r  to  bake  than  plain,  and  the  hoat 
must  be  kept  steady. 

Lincoln  Cake. 
1  lb.  butter. 

1  "   sugar. 


CAKE.  329 

1  lb.  f]our. 
6  eggs. 

2  cups  sour  cream  or  milk. 
1  grated  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  powdered  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  rose-water.  » 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  stirred 

into  the  milk  just  before  adding  the  latter  to  the 

cake. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  put  with  them  the.  yolks 
whipped  light,  then  the  cream  and  spice,  next  the  flour, 
then  the  rose-water,  and  a  double-handful  of  citron  cut  in 
slips  and  dredged ;  Anally,  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Stir  all  well,  and  bake  in  a  loaf  or  in  a  ^^  card,"  using  a 
square  shallow  baking-pan. 

This  is  a  good  cake  and  keeps  well. 

Black  oh  Wedding  Cake. 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

1."    butter. 

1  "    flour. 

12  eggs. 

1  lb.  currants  well  washed  and  dredged. 

1  **    raisins  seeded  and  chopped. 
'  ^  "    citron  cut  into  slips. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

2  teaspoonfuls  nutmeg. 
1  "  cloves. 
1  wineglass  brandy. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the 
c^ggs,  and  stir  all  well  together  before  putting  in  half  of  the 
flour.      The  spice  should  come  next,  then   the  whipped 


330  COMMON   SENSE. 

whites  stirred  in  alternately  with  the  I'est  of  the ,  flour, 
lastly  the  brandy. 

The  above  quantity  is  for  two  large  cakes.  Bake  at 
least  two  hours  in  deep  tins  lined  with  well-buttered  pa- 
per. 

The  icing  should  be  laid  on  stiff  and  thickly.  This 
cake,  if  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  will  not  spoil  in  two 
months. 

I  have  eaten  wedding-cake  a  year  old. 

Test  the  cakes  well,  and  be  sure  they  are  quite  done 
before  taking  them  from  the  oven. 

Fruit-Cake  {jylainer). 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
1    "  flour, 
f   "  butter. 

7  eggs. 

J  lb.  currants — washed,  picked  over,  and  dredged. 
^   "  raisins — seeded  and  chopped,  then  dredged. 
J   "  citron  cut  into  slips. 
1  tcaspoonful  nutmeg. 
1  "  cinnamon. 

1  glass  brandy. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then 
the  spice  and  the  whipped  whites  alternately  with  the 
flour ;  the  fruit  and  brandy  last. 

Almond  Cake. 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
1   *«  flour. 
J  "  butter. 

8  eggs. 


CAKE.  331 

1  coffee-cupful  sweet  almonds,  blanched  by  putting  them 

into  hot  water,  and,  when  stripped  of  their  skins 
and  perfectly  cold,  beaten  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a 
Wedgewood  mortar,  with  a  little  rose-water  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  essence  of  bitter  almonds. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately ;  stir  butter  and  sugar 
to  a  cream ;  add  to  tliis  the  yolks ;  beat  very  hard  before 
putting  in  the  flour ;  stir  in  the  almond-paste  alternately 
with  the  whites.     Put  in  the  brandy  last. 

Season  the  icing  with  rose-water. 

Nut-Cake.  »{• 

2  cups  sugar. 
1  cup  butter. 

3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  cold  water. 

4  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar, 

2  cupfuls  kernels  of  hickory-nuts  or  white  walnuts, 
carefully  picked  out,  and  added  last  of  all. 

Gold  Cake,  t^t 

1  lb.  sugar. 

i  «  butter. 

1   «  flour. 

Yolks  of  ten  eggs — well  beaten. 

Grated  rind  of  one  orange,  and  juice  of  two  lemons. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Cream  the  butter  and ,  sugar,  and  stir  in  the  yolks. 
Beat  very  hard  for  five  minutes  before  putting  in  the  flour. 
The  soda  next,  and  lastly  the  lemon-juice,  in  which  the 
grated  orange-peel  sliould  have  been  steeped  and  strained 


332  COMMON   BENSE. 

out  in  a  piece  of  thin  muslin,  leaving  the  flavoring  and 
coloring  matter  in  the  juice. 

Flavor  the  icing  also  with  lemon. 

Silver  Cake.  4* 

1  lb.  Bugai\ 

}  "  flour. 

i  "  butter. 

Whites  of  ten  eggs — whipped  very  stiff. 

1  large  teaspoonful  essence  bitter  almonds. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  put  next  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  ;  then  the  flour,  lastly  the  flavoring. 

Make  gold  and  silver  cake  on  the  same  day ;  bake  them 
in  tins  of  corresponding  size,  and  lay  them  in  alternate 
slices  in  the  cake-basket.  Flavor  the  icing  of  silver  cake 
with  rose-water. 

Almond  Macaroons. 

Prepare  the  almonds  the  day  before  you  make  the  cakes, 
by  blanching  them  in  boiling  water,  stripping  off  the  skins, 
and  pounding  them  when  perfectly  cold — a  few  at  a  time — 
in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  adding  from  time  to  time  a  little 
rose-water.  When  beaten  to  a  smooth  paste,  stir  in,  to  a 
pound  of  the  sweet  almonds,  a  generous  tablespoonful  of 
essence  of  bitter  almonds ;  cover  closely,  and  set  away  in  a 
cold  place  until  the  morrow.  Then  to  a  pound  of  the  nuts 
allow  : — 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

The  beaten  whites  of  eight  eggs,  and 
1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Stir  the  sugar  and  white  of  egg  lightly  together ;  then 
whip  in  gradually  the  almond-paste. 

Line  a  broad  baking-pan  with  buttered  white  paper; 


CAKE.  333 

drop  upon  this  spoonfuls  of  the  mixture  at  such  distances 
apart  as  shall  prevent  their  running  together.  Sift  pow- 
dered sugar  thickly  upon  each,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
to  a  delicate  brown. 

Try  the  mixture  first,  to  make  sure  it  is  of  the  right 
consistency,  and  if  the  macaroons  run  into  irregular  shapes, 
beat  in  more  sugar.  This  will  hardly  happen,  however,  if 
the  mixture  is  already  well  beaten. 

Huckleberry  Cake.  »{* 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 
5  eggs. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  *^  nutmeg,  and  the  same  of  cinnamon. 

1  quart  ripe,  fresh  huckleberries,  thickly  dredged  with 

flour. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  beaten 
yolks ;  then  the  milk,  the  flour,  and  spice,  the  whites  whip- 
ped stiff,  and  the  soda.  At  the  last  stir  in  the  huckleber- 
ries with  a  wooden  spoon  or  paddle,  not  to  bruise  them. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  or  card,  in  a  moderate  but  steady  oven,  until 
a  straw  comes  out  clean  from  the  thickest  part. 

This  is  a  delicious  cake,  and  deserves  to  be  better  known. 

Corn-Starch  Cake.  »{« 

2  cups  sugar, )  ^^^  ^^  ^  ^^^^ 
1  cup  butter, ) 

1  cup  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 


334  COMMON   SEKSE. 

i  cup  cornstarch. 

2  toaspoonfuls  cream-tartar,  sifled  well  through  the  flour. 

1  '^  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Sifr.  the  corn-Htarch  with  the  flour,  and  add  the  last  thing. 
Bake  in  small  tins  and  eat  while  fresh.  They  dry  in  two 
or  three  days  and  become  insipid,  but  are  very  nice  for 
twenty-four  hours  after  they  are  baked. 

White  C\\ke. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 
Whites  of  five  eggs. 

3  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
1  "  soda. 

COOKIES,  ETC. 
Mrs.  B.'s  Cookies.  •{• 

6  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately. 

1  cup  butter. 

3  cups  sugar. 
Flour  to  make  batter  just  stiff*  enough  to  be  moulded 
with  well-floured  hands. 
Flavor  with  lemon. 
Make  into  round  cakes  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Small  Sugar  Cakes. 

1  heaping  teacup  of  sugar. 
J  teacup  of  butter. 

^  teacup  sweet  milk. 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 


COOKIES,   ETC.  835 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 

1  '^  coda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Flour  sufficient  to  enable  you  to  roll  out  the  dough. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

Nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

Cut  into  round  cakes  and  bake  quickly. 

New  Year's  Cakes.  (  Very  nice.)  »J< 

1^  lb.  sugar. 

1  lb.  butter. 

^  pint  cold  water. 

2  eggs. 

3^  lbs.  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
4  tablespoonfuls  caraway  seed  sprinkled  through    the 
flour. 

Rub  the  butter,  or,  what  is  better,  chop  it  up  in  the 
flour ;  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water ;  mix  all  well  witli 
the  beaten  eggs,  cut  in  square  cakes,  or  with  an  oval  mould, 
and  bake  quickly. 

"Mother's"  Cookies. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  6ggs,  well  beaten. 

}  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
1  "  nutmeg. 

^  *'  cloves. 

Flour  to  make  soft  dough,  just  stiff  enough  to  roll  out. 
Try  two  cups  to  begin  with,  working  it  in  gradually.  Cut 
in  round  cakes,  stick  a  raisin  or  currant  in  the  top  of  each, 
and  bake  quickly. 


336  COMMON  SENSE. 

Coriander  Cookies,  t^ 
1  cup  butter. 

3  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  "  loppeved  "  milk  or  cream. 

4  eggs. 

7  cups  flour,  or  just  enough  to  stiffen  into  a  roUcible  paste. 

2  tablespoonfuls  coriander  seed  (ground  or  beaten). 
1  '^  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

If  you  use  sweet  milk,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  cream- 
tartar.  You  may  substitute  caraway  for  the  coriander 
seed. 

Rice-Flour  Cookies. 

^  lb.  ground  rice. 

jf  "    flour,  dried  and  sifted. 

1  "    powdered  sugar. 

i''    butter. 

4  eggs. 

Juice  and  half  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon. 

1  tablespoonful  orange-flower  water. 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  very  light ;  then  put  the  sugar 
with  the  yolks.  Boat  ten  minutes,  add  the  orange-flower 
water  and  lemon ;  lastly,  the  flour  and  whites  alternately. 
Beat  the  mixture  half  an  hour.  Bake  immediately  in  patty- 
pans.    Eat  while  fresh. 

Molasses  Cookies.  {Good.) 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  molasses. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

Sufficient  floiu*  to  make  stiff  baiter,  not  dough.     Mould 


COOKIES,   ETC.  837 

with  the  hands  into  small  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  steady  rather 
than  quick  oven,  as  they  are  apt  to  bum. 

Ginger- Snaps  (iTo.  1). 

1  cup  butter. 
1    ^'    molasses. 
1    "    sugar. 
J    "    sweet  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  saleratus. 

2  "         gii^ger. 

Flour  for  tolerably  stiff  dough. 

Ginqer-Snaps  (JVo.  2).  4* 

1  large  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed* 

1  coffee-cup  sugar. 

1  cup  molasses. 

•}-    "    water. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

1  ^'  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  ^'  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Flour  for  pretty  stiff  dough. 

Boll  out  rather  thinner  than  sugar  ^  cakes,  and  bake 

quickly.     These  ginger-snaps  will  keep  for  weeks,  if  locked 

up, 

Ginger-Snaps  {No,  3). 

1  pint  molasses. 

1  teacup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

1  "  allspice. 

1  cup  butter. 

5  cups  flour. 

Roll  thin  and  cut  into  small  cakes.     Bake  in  quick  oven. 
15 


33S  COMMON  8EN8E. 

Aunt  Margaret^s  Jumbles. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 
1  teacup  milk. 
5  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
1  "  nutmeg. 

Sufficient  flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Boll  out,  cut  into 
shapes,  and  sift  sugar  over  them  before  they  go  into  the 
oven. 

Lemon  Jumbles. 

1  egg. 

1  teacupful  sugar. 

1         «         butter. 

3  teas|K>onfuls  milk. 

1  "  cream-tartar. 
J           «            soda. 

2  small  lemons,  juice  of  two  and  grated  rind  of  one. 

Mix  rather  stiff.     Roll  and  cut  out  with  a  cake-cutter. 

RiNQ  Jumbles. 

1  lb.  butter. 

1  "  sugar. 

4  eggs. 

\\  lb.  flour,  or  enough  to  make  out  a  soft  dough. 

Wineglass  (small)  rose-water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then 
the  rose-water,  ne^^t  half  the  flour,  lastly  the  whites,  stirred 
in  very  lightly,  sJtemately  with  the  remaining  flour.  Have 
ready  a  pan,  broad  and  shallow,  lined  on  the  bottom  with 
buttered  paper,     With  a  tablcspooi;  forn^  regular  rings  of 


JUMBLES,   CAKES,    ETC.  339 

tho  dough  upon  this,  leaving  a  hole  in  the  centre  of  each. 
Bake  quickly,  and  sifl  fine  sugar  over  them  as  soon  as  they 
are  done. 

You  may  substitute  lemon  or  vanilla  for  the  rose-water. 

Mrs.  M.'s  Jumbles. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1    «    butter. 

^    '^    sour  cream. 

1  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Kutmeg  to  taste. 

Bake  in  rings,  as  directed  in  previous  receipt. 

Almond  Jumbles. 
1  lb.  sugar. 
^  «    flour. 
i  "   butter. 

1  teacup  "loppered"  milk. 
5  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  rose-water. 

f  lb.  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  small,  but  not 

pounded. 
1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Cream,  butter,  and  sugar ;  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks,  the 
milk,  the  flour,  and  the  rose-water,  the  almonds,  lastly  the 
beaten  whites  very  lightly  and  quickly.  Drop  in  rings  or 
round  cakes  upon  buttered  paper,  and  bake  immediately. 

You  may  substitute  grated  coooanut,  or  the  chopped 
kernels  of  white  walnuts,  for  the  almonds,  in  which  case 
add  a  little  salt. 


340  COMMON  SENSE. 

Currant  Cakes. 
1  lb.  flour. 

i  "   butter. 

J  **   sugar. 

4  eggs. 

^  lb.  currants,  well  washed  and  dredged. 

^  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

^  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice. 

1  teasi>oonful  cinnamon. 

Drop  from  a  spoon  upon  well-buttered  paper,  lining  a 
baking-pan.     Bake  quickly. 

Drop  Sponge-cakes. 

^  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

i  "   flour. 

4  eggs — ^yolks  and  whites  separate,  and  beaten  very 

stiff: 
1  lemon — all  the  juice,  and  half  the  grated  rind. 

Drop  upon  buttered  paper,  not  too  near  together.  Tiy 
one,  and  if  it  runs,  beat  the  mixture  some  minutes  longer 
hardy  adding  a  very  little  flour.  Your  oven  should  be  very 
quick,  and  the  cakes  a  delicate  yellow  brown. 

Lady^s  Fingers 

Are  mixed  like  drop  sponge-cakes,  but  disposed  upon  the 
paper  in  long,  narrow  cakes.  They  are  very  nice  dipped 
in  chocolate  icing,  or  caramel. 

Aunt  Margaret's  Crullers,  t^ 

1  lb.  butter. 

1^  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

12  eggs. 

Mace  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Flour  to  roll  out  stiff. 


CBULLEBS.  341 

This  is  for  a  large  quantity  of  ciniUers.  Roll  out  in  a 
thin  sheet,  cut  into  shapes  with  a  jagging-iron,  and  fry  in 
plenty  of  boiling  lard.  Test  the  heat  first  by  dropping  in 
one.  It  should  rise  almost  instantly  to  the  surface.  Crul- 
lers and  doughnuts  soak  in  fat  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle. 
These  should  be  a  fine  yellow. 

The  most  delicious  and  the  nicest-looking  crullers  I 
have  ever  seen  were  made  by  the  dear  old  lady  from  whom 
I  had  this  receipt.  They  were  as  pretty  and  perfect  a 
picture  of  their  kind  as  she  was  of  hers. 

Crullers  are  better  the  second  day  than  the  first.  If 
the  fat  becomes  so  hot  that  the  cinillers  brown  before  they 
puff  out  to  their  full  dimensions,  take  the  kettle  from  the 
fire  for  a  few  minutes.  Have  enough  cut  out  before  you 
begin  to  fry  them,  to  keep  a  good  supply  all  the  while  on 
the  fire.  If  you  undertake  the  task  alone,  cut  out  all  be- 
fore cooking  one. 

Katie's  Crullers. 

1  lb.  sugar. 

\  «   butter. 

6  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  sweet  milk. 

1  small  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  nutmeg. 

Sufiicient  flour  to  roll  out  stiff. 

"Mother's"  Crullers. 

1^  teacup  sugar. 

\  teacup  sour  cream  or  milk. 

\      "       butter. 

1  egg. 

1  small  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  t^ator. 

Flour  to  roll  out  a  tolerably  stiff  paste. 


842  COMMON  SENSE. 

Annie's  Crullers. 

2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  eggs. 

2  cups  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Flour  to  roll  out  tolerably  stiff. 

Risen  Doughnuts. 

1  lb.  butter. 

IJ^  lb.  sugar. 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

4  eggs. 

1  large  cup  yeast. 

1  tablespoonful  mace  or  nutmeg. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon. 

Flour  to  make  all  stiff  as  bread-dough. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  milk,  yeast,  and  one 
quart  and  a  pint  of  flour.  Set  to  rise  over  night.  In  the 
morning  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  into  the  batter 
with  the  spice  and  rest  of  the  flour.  Set  to  rise  three  hours, 
or  until  light ;  roll  into  a  pretty  thick  sheet,  cut  out,  and 
fiy  in  boiling  lard.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them  while 
hot. 

Quick  Doughnuts. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 
4  eggs. 

1  cup  sour  milk  or  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 


CSULLEBS,   DOUGHNUTS,   ETC.  343 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

^  <<  cinnamon. 

Flour  to  roll  out  in  pretty  soft  dough. 

Cut  into  shapes,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Soft  Gingerbread.  •!« 

1  cup  butter. 

1    ^'     molasses. 

1    "     sugar. 

1    "     sour  or  buttermilk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

2  eggs. 

About  five  cups  of  flour— enough  to  make  it  thick  as 
cup-cake  batter,  perhaps  a  trifle  thicker.  Work  in  four 
cups  first,  and  add  very  cautiously. 

Stir  butter,  sugar,  molasses,  and  spice  together  to  a 
light  cream,  set  them  on  the  range  until  slightly  warm; 
beat  the  eggs  light;  add  the  milk  to  the  warmed  mixture, 
then  the  eggs,  the  soda,  and  lastly  the  flour.  Beat  very 
hard  ten  minutes,  and  bake  at  once  in  a  loaf,  or  in  small 
tins.  Half  a  pound  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  half,  will 
improve  this  excellent  gingerbread.  Dredge  them  well 
before  putting  them  in.     Add  them  at  the  last. 

Sponge  Gingerbread  {egglcss),  ^ 

5  cups  flour. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  cup  molasses. 

1    "     sugar. 

1  "     milk  (sour  is  best). 

2  teaspoonfiils  salei*atus,  not  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 


844  COMMON   SENSE. 

2  tcaspoonfuls  ginger. 

1  ''  cinnamon. 

Mix  thi^  molasses,  sugar,  butter,  and  spice  together; 
warm  them  slightly,  and  beat  until  they  are  lighter  in  col- 
or by  many  degrees  than  when  you  began.  Add  the  milk, 
then  the  soda,  and  having  mixed  all  well,  put  in  the  flour. 
Beat  very  hard  five  minutes,  and  bake  in  a  broad,  shallow 
pan,  or  in  pdte-tins.  Half  a  pound  of  seeded  raisins  cut 
in  pieces  will  be  a  pleasant  addition. 

Try  this  gingerbread  warm  for  tea  or  luncheon,  with 
a  cup  of  hot  chocolate  to  accompany  it,  and  you  will  soon 
I'epeat  the  experiment. 

Plain  Gingerbread. 

2  cups  molasses. 
i    "      lard. 

1  «      butter. 

2  teaspoonfuls  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water, 
2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

Thicken  with  flour  to  a  soft  dough. 

Warm  the  molasses,  lard,  butter,  and  ginger,  and  beat 
them  ten  minutes  before  adding  the  milk,  soda,  and  flour. 
Roll  out,  cut  into  shapes,  and  bake  in  a  quick,  but  not 
too  hot  oven.  Keep  in  a  tight  tin  box.  Brush  over  with 
white  of  egg  while  hot. 

Gingerbread  Loaf  (No.  1). 

1  cup  butter. 

1    '^   molasses. 

1    **   sugar. 

^   "   cold  water. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 


OINO£BBR£AD.  345 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

1  "  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Flour  to  make  stiff  batter. 

Melt  the  butter,  slightly  warm  the  molasses,  spice,  and 
sugar,  and  beat  together  ten  minutes.  Then  pat  in  the 
water,  soda,  and  flour.  Stir  very  hard,  and  bake  in  three 
small  loaves.  Brush  them  over  with  syrup  while  hot,  and 
eat  fresh. 

Loaf  Gingerbread  (No  2). 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  molasses. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

2  eggs,  very  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  saleratus. 

1  cup  milk,  sweet  or  sour.  If  sour,  heap  your  spoon 
with  saleratus. 

Flour  to  the  consistency  of  pound-cake. 

Spiced  Gingerbread. 

1  lb.  flour. 

1  "    sugar. 

J  "   butter. 

5  eggs. 

i  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water* 

1  "  cream-tartar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  sweet  milk. 

1  large  tablespoonful  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  **  nutmeg. 

1  '^  cinnamon. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks, 
the  milk  and  spice,  the  soda,  and  when  these  are  well  mixed, 
the  flour.     Bake  in  two  squai*c  or  roimd  loaves. 

15* 


346  COMMON   SENBB. 

Sugar  Gingerbread. 

1  cup  of  butter. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

1  cup  sour  cream  or  milk. 

3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

5|-  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to  roll  out  9ofi,  Gut  in 
shapes,  brush  over  with  white  of  egg  while  hot,  and  bake. 

Bread  Cake. 

On  baking-day,  take  from  your  dough,  after  its  second 
rising — 2  cups  risen  dough.     Have  ready,  also — 

2  cups  white  sugar. 

1  cup  butter,  creamed  with  the  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sweet  milk— cream  is  better. 
\  lb.  currants,  well  washed  and  dredged. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

1  "  cloves. 

Beat  the  yolks  very  light,  add  the  creamed  butter  and 
sugar,  the  spice,  milk,  soda,  and  dough.  Stir  until  all  are 
well  mixed ;  put  in  the  beaten  whites,  lastly  the  fruit. 
Beat  hard  five  minutes,  let  it  rise  twenty  minutes  in  two 
well-buttered  pans,  and  bake  half  an  hour  or  until  done. 

Fruit  Gingerbread. 

2  lbs.  flour, 
f  «    butter. 
1  ^^    sugar. 


SWEET  WAFEE8.  847 

1  lb.  raisinSy  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  **    currants^  well  washed. 

2  cups  molasses. 
^  cup  sour  cream. 
C  eggs. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
1  "  cloves. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  warm  the  molasses  slightly, 
and  beat  these  together ;  then  the  beaten  yolks,  next  the 
milk  and  spice,  the  soda,  the  flour  and  whites,  well  whip- 
ped ;  lastly  the  fruit,  which  must  be  thickly  dredged.  Beat 
well  before  baking. 

A  little  citron,  slired  fine,  is  an  improvement.  Bake  in 
two  broad  pans,  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  cake  will  keep 
a  long  time. 

Sweet  Wafers. 

6  eggs. 

1  pint  flour. 

2  oz.  melted  butter. 

H  cup  powdered  sugar. 

1  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately  and  very  stifl*,  rub  the 
sugar  and  butter  together,  and  work  in  first  the  yolks,  then 
the  milk,  then  the  flour  and  whites.  Bake  in  well-but* 
tered  wafer  or  waffle  irons,  very  quickly,  browning  as  little 
as  possible.  Boll  them  while  hot  upon  a  smooth,  round 
stick,  not  larger  than  your  little  finger,  sb'pping  it  out  care- 
fully when  the  cake  takes  the  right  shape. 

Thcso  little  cakes  are  an  acceptable  addition  to  any 


34S  COMMON  8EN8E. 

tea  or  sup[>er  table,  and  look  well  among  faucy  cakes  in  a 
basket. 

Boston  Cream  Cakes.  >{« 

J-  lb.  butter. 
J  "   flour. 
8  eggs. 
1  pint  water. 

Stir  the  butter  into  the  water,  which  should  be  wann, 
set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan,  and  slowly  bring  to  a  boil, 
stilling  it  often.  When  it  boils,  put  in  the  flour,  boil  one 
miniite,  stirring  all  the  while ;  take  from  the  fire,  turn  into 
a  deep  dish,  and  let  it  cool.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and 
whip  into  this  cooled  paste,  first  the  yolks,  then  the  whites. 

Drop,  in  great  spoonfuls,  upon  buttered  paper,  taking 

care  not  to  let  them  touch  or  run  into  each  other,  and  bake 

ten  minutes. 

Cream  far  JiUiny, 

1  quart  milk. 

4  tablespoon  fills  corn-starch. 

2  eggs. 

2  cups  sugar. 

Wet  the  corn-starch  with  enough  milk  to  work  it  into 
a  smooth  pa.stc.  Boil  the  rest  of  the  milk.  Beat  the  eggs, 
add  the  sugar  and  corn-starch  to  these,  and  so  soon  as  the 
milk  boils  pour  in  the  mixture  gradually,  stirring  all  the 
time  until  smooth  and  thick.  Drop  in  a  teaspoonful  of  but- 
ter, and  when  this  is  mixed  in,  set  the  custard  aside  to  cool. 
Then  add  vanilla  or  lemon  seasoning ;  pass  a  sharp  knife 
lightly  around  the  pufls,  split  them,  and  fill  with  the  mix- 
ture. 

Tlie  best  cream  cakes  I  have  ever  tasted  were  made  by 
this  somewhat  odd  receipt. 

Try  it. 


PIE8.  349 

Nougat. 

1  lb.  sweet  almonda. 

J  "    fine  white  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  rose-water. 

Blanch  the  almonds  in  boiling  water.  When  stripped 
of  their  skins,  throw  them  into  ice- water  for  five  minutes. 
Take  them  out  and  dry  between  two  cloths.  Shave  with 
a  small  knife  into  thin  slips.  Put  them  into  a  slow  oven 
until  they  are  very  slightly  colored.  Meanwhile,  melt  the 
sugar — wiihoui  adding  water — in  a  porcelain  kettle  over 
the  fire,  stirring  it  all  the  while  to  keep  it  from  burning. 
When  it  bubbles  up  and  is  quite  melted  take  off  the  kettle 
and  instantly  stir  in  the  hot  almonds.  Have  ready  a  tin 
pan  or  mould,  well  buttered  and  slightly  warmed.  Pour 
in  the  nougat ;  press  it  thin  and  fiat  to  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  if  you  mean  to  cut  it  into  strips ;  to  all  sides  of  tlio 
mould  if  you  intend  to  fill  it  with  syllabub  or  macaroons. 
Let  it  cool  in  the  mould,  for  the  latter  puri)ose,  withdraw- 
ing it  carefully  when  you  want  it.  If  you  cut  it  up,  do  it 
while  it  is  still  warm — not  hot. 

The  synip  should  be  a  bright  yellow  before  putting  in 
tlic  almonds. 


PIES. 

Use  none  but  the  best  butter  in  pastry. 

"  Cooking  butter  is  a  good  thing,"  said  a  grave  epicure 
to  me  once,  "  an  admirable  thing — in  its  place,  which  is  in 
the  soap-fat  kettle  or  upon  wagon-wheels  !  " 

It  is  certainly  out  of  place  in  biscmts,  cake,  or  in  any 
substance  destined  for  hiiman  palates  and  stomachs.  It  Ls 
never  less  in  place  than  in  pastry  ;  never  betrays  its  vile- 
ness  more  surely  and  odiously. 


3S0  COMMON   SENSE. 

Butter  intended  for  pastry  should  be  washed  carefully 
in  several  clear,  cold  waters,  and  kneaded  while  under 
water,  to  extract  the  salt.  Then  wipe  it  dry,  and  lay  it  in  a 
cold  place  until  you  are  ready  to  work  it  in. 

'^Keep  cool,''  is  a  cardinal  motto  for  pastry-makers. 
A  marble  slab  is  a  good  thing  to  roll  out  paste  upon.  Next 
to  this,  the  best  article  is  a  dean  board  of  hard  wood,  which 
is  never  used  for  any  other  purpose.  It  is  harder  to  make 
good  pastry  in  warm  weather  than  cold,  on  account  of  the 
tendency  of  the  butter  to  oil,  and  thus  render  the  crust 
heavy  and  solid. 

Few  people  know  what  really  good  pastry  is.  Fewer 
still  can  make  it.  It  has  no  inevitable  resemblance  either 
to  putty  or  leather.  It  is  light,  crisp,  flaky,  goodly  to  be- 
hold— ^goodlier  to  the  taste. 

'^  Pork  fat  and  pies  kill  more  people  yearly  in  the 
United  States  than  do  liquor  and  tobacco,''  said  a  popular 
lecturer  upon  conservatism. 

Perhaps  so ;  but  I  incline  to  the  belief  that  bad  pastry 
is  amiwerable  for  a  vast  majority  of  the  murders.  Not  that 
I  recommend  pies  of  any  description  as  healthful  daily  food 
— least  of  all  for  children.  But  since  they  are  eaten  freely 
all  o^'er  our  land,  let  us  make  them  as  wholesome  and  pa- 
latable as  possible. 

Family  Pie-Crust  (No.  1).  •!• 

1  quart  flour. 

^  lb.  lard,  sweet  and  firm. 

\  "    butter. 

1  small  teacup  ice-water. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  deep  wooden  bowL  With  a  broad- 
bladed  knife,  or  a  small  keen  '^  chopper,"  cut  up  the  lard 
into  the  flour  until  it  is  fine  as  dust.     Wet  with   ice- 


FIE6.  361 

water  into  a  stiff  dough,  working  it  with  a  wooden  spoon 
until  obliged  to  make  it  into  a  roll  or  ball  with  your  hands. 
Flour  these,  and  knead  the  paste  into  shape  with  as  few 
strokes  as  will  effect  your  end.  Lay  the  lump  upon  a 
floured  kneading-board  and  roll  it  out  into  a  thin  sheet, 
always  rolling  from  you  with  quick,  light  action.  When 
thin  enough,  stick  bits  of  butter  in  regular  close  rows  all 
over  the  sheet,  using  a  knife  for  this  pur{)ose  rather  than 
your  hands.  Roll  up  the  paste  into  close  folds  as  you 
would  a  sheet  of  music.  Flatten  it  that  your  rolling-pin 
can  take  hold,  and  roll  out  again  as  thin  as  before.  Baste, 
roll  up  and  then  out,  until  your  butter  is  gone.  It  is  a 
good  plan  to  sprinkle  the  inside  of  each  sheet  with  a  little 
flour  after  buttering  it,  before  making  it  into  a  roll.  Fina^.ly, 
make  out  your  crust ;  butter  your  pic-plates,  lay  tlie  paste 
lightly  within  them,  cut  it  off  evenly  about  the  edges  after 
fitting  it  neatly;  gather  up  the  scraps  left  from  cutting, 
and  make  into  another  sheet.  If  the  pies  are  to  have  a 
top  crust,  fill  the  plates  with  fruit  or  whatever  you  have 
ready,  lay  the  paste  on  this,  cut  it  to  fit,  and  press  down 
the  edges  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  juice,  with  a  spoon, 
knife,  or  jagging-iron,  ornamenting  it^in  a  regular  figure. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  light  brown.  Be 
particularly  careful  to  have  your  heat  as  great  at  the 
bottom  as  at  the  top,  or  the  lower  crust  will  be  clammy 
and  raw. 

Pastry  is  always  best  when  fresh. 

It  is  well,  when  you  can  spare  the  time,  to  lay  the  roll, 
when  all  the  butter  is  used  up,  in  a  very  cold  place  for  fif- 
teen minutes  or  so  before  rolling  it  into  crust.  Indeed, 
some  good  housewives  let  it  stand  on  the  ice  an  hour  in  hot 
weather.    They  say  it  tends  to  make  it  flaky  as  well  as  firm. 

Touch  as  little  with  your  hands  as  may  be  practicable. 


362  COMMON    SENSE. 

Family  PiE-CRUtsT  {N'o.  2).  •!« 

1  lb.  flour. 
}  "  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  creain*tartar. 

.      Ice-water  to  make  into  a  Btiff"  dough. 

Chop  half  the  butter  into  the  flour  until  it  looks  like 
yellow  sand  (sift  the  soda  and  cream-tartar  with  the  flour, 
passing  it  through  the  sieve  twice  to  make  sure  it  is  well 
mixed) ;  work  with  ice-water  into  stiff  dough ;  roll  into  a 
thin  sheet,  baste  with  one-third  the  remaining  butter,  fold 
up  closely  into  a  long  roll,  flatten  and  re-roll,  then  baste 
again.  Kepeat  this  operation  three  times,  until  the  butter 
is  gone,  when  make  out  your  crust. 

This  is  an  easy  and  sure  receipt,  and  the  paste  very 
fine. 

Fksncii  Pukf-Paste.  •!« 

1  lb.  flour. 

I  "  butter. 

1  egg ;  use  the  yolk  only. 

Ice-water. 

Chop  half  the  butter  into  the  flour ;  stir  the  beaten  egg 
into  half  a  cup  ice-water,  and  work  the  flour  into  a  stiff 
dough ;  roll  out  Hiiriy  baste  with  one-third  the  remaining  but- 
ter, fold  closely,  roll  oiit  again,  and  so  on  until  the  butter  is 
used  up.  KoU  very  thin,  and  set  the  last  folded  roll  in  a 
very  cold  place  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  making  out 
the  crust.  Wash  with  beaten  egg  while  hot.  This  paste  is 
very  nice  for  oyster-^? cl^c^  as  well  as  for  fi-uit-pies. 


PIES.  353 

Puff-Paste. 
1  pint  flour. 

■J-  lb.  butter. 

1  egg,  well  beaten.     Use  the  yolk  only. 

1  gill  ice-water. 

Mix  the  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  beaten  egg, 
and  ice-water  into  a  paste  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Flour 
your  pastry-board,  and  roll  out  the  crust  very  thin.  Put 
the  rest  of  the  butter,  when  you  have  washed  it,  in  the 
centre  of  this  sheet,  in  a  flat  cake.  Turn  the  four  comei*s 
of  the  'paste  over  it,  and  roll  out  carefully,  not  to  break  the 
paste.  Should  it  give  way,  flour  the  spot,  that  it  may  not 
stick  to  the  roller.  When  very  thin,  sprinkle  lightly  with 
flour,  fold  up,  and  roll  out  four  times  more.  Set  in  a  cool 
place  for  an  hour,  roll  out  again,  and  cut  into  tartlet-shells 
or  top  crust  for  pies. 

The  bottom  crust  of  pies  may  often  be  made  of  plainer 
pastry  than  the  upper. 

Transparent  Crust.    (  Very  rich.) 

1  lb.  flour. 

1   "  butter. 

1  egg — the  yolk  only. 

Wash  the  butter,  dry,  and  then  melt  it  in  a  vessel  set 
in  another  of  boiling  water,  stirring  gently  all  the  while  to 
prevent  oiling.  Take  off  the  salty  scum  from  the  top,  and 
when  almost  cold  beat  up  the  butter  little  by  little  with  the 
egg,  which  should  be  previously  whipped  light.  When 
these  are  thoroughly  incorporated  work  in  the  flour,  roll 
out  twice,  sprinkling  lightly  with  flour  before  you  fold  it 
up ;  let  it  stand  folded  five  minutes  in  a  cold  place,  and 
make  out  for  tartlets  or  pdies.  It  is  not  suitable  for  large 
pies.  Bake  before  you  fill  them,  and  brush  over  with  a 
beaten  egg  while  hot. 


854  COMMON   8EN8E. 

Mince  'Pies'{N^o,  1). 

4  lbs.  meat — i.  e.,  two-thirds  apple,  one-ihird  meat. 
3    '^    raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

2  "    currants,  washed,  picked  over,  and  diied. 

3  quarts  cider. 
1  pint  brandy. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

1  "  "  nutmeg. 

The  same  of  cloves,  and  half  the  quantity  of  mace. 
Make  very  sweet  with  brown  sugar. 

The  meat  should  be  a  good  piece  of  lean  beef,  boiled 
the  day  before  it  is  needed.  Half  a  pound  of  raw  suet, 
chopped  fine,  may  be  added.  Chop  the  meat,  clean  out 
bits  of  skin  and  gristle,  and  mix  with  twice  the  quantity 
of  fine  juicy  apples,  also  chopped ;  then  put  in  the  fruit, 
next  the  sugar  and  spice,  lastly  the  liquor.  Mix  very  thor- 
oughly, cover  closely,  and  let  all  stand  together  for  twenty- 
four  hours  before  making  the  pies. 

Mince  Pies  (iVo.  2).  •!« 

2  lbs.  lean  fresh  beef,  boiled,  and  when  cold,  chopped 

fine. 

1  lb.  beef-suet,  cleared  of  strings  and  minced  to  powder. 

5  lbs.  apples,  pared  and  chopped. 

2  '^     raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  lb.  sultana  raisins,  washed  and  picked  over. 

2  lbs.  currants,  washed  and  carefully  picked  over, 
i  lb.  citron,  cut  up  fine. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon. 

1  powdered  nutmeg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  mace. 
1  tablespoonful  cloves, 
1  "  allspice. 


PIES.  355 

1  iablespoonful  fine  salt. 
2^  lbs.  brown  sugar. 
1  quart  brown  slierry. 
1,  pint  best  brandy. 

Mince-meat  made  by  this  receipt  will  keep  all  winter  in 
a  cool  place.  Keep  in  stone  jars,  tied  over  with  double 
covers.  Add  a  little  more  liquor  (if  it  should  dry  out), 
when  you  make  up  a  batch  of  pies.  Let  the  mixture  stand 
at  least  twenty-four  hours  after  it  is  made  before  it  is  used. 

Lay  strips  of  pastry,  notched  with  a  jagging-iron,  in  a 
cross-bar  pattern,  upon  the  pie,  instead  of  a  top-crust. 

I  take  this  opportunity  of  warning  the  innocent  reader 
against  placing  any  confidence  whatever  in  dried  currants. 
I  years  ago  gave  over  trying  to  guess  who  put  the  dirt  in 
them.  It  is  always  there !  gravel-stones  lurking  under  a 
specious  coating  of  curranty-looking  paste,  to  crucify  grown 
people^s  nerves  and  children's  teeth;  mould  that  changes 
to  mud  in  the  mouth ;  twigs  that  prick  the  throat,  not  to 
mention  the  legs,  wings,  and  bodies  of  tropical  insects — a 
curious  study  to  one  interested  in  the  entomology  of  Zante. 
It  is  all  dirt !  although  sold  to  us  at  currant  prices. 

Wash  your  currants,  therefore,  fii"st  in  warm  water, 
rolling  up  your  sleeves,  and  rubbing  the  conglomerate 
masses  apai-t,  as  you  would  scrub  a  muddy  garment.  Drain 
them  in  a  cullender,  and  pass  them  through  three  more 
waters — cold  now,  but  cleansing.  Then  spread  them  upon 
a  large  dish,  and  enter  seiiously  upon  your  geological  and 
entomological  researches.  **  Sultanas  " — sweet  and  seed- 
less— ai'e  nearly  as  troublesome,  but  their  specialty  is  more 
harmless,  being  stickiness  and  stems. 

Neveiilieless,  since  John  has  a  weakness  for  mince-pies 
(I  never  saw  an  un-dyspeptic  man  who  had  not),  it  is  woiiJi 
your  while  to  make  them,  having  this  consolation,  that  if 


856  COMMON  SENSE. 

you  are  wise  you  need  not  engage  in  the  manufacture  of- 
tener  than  once,  or  at  most,  twice  a  winter.  But  let  the 
children  taste  them  sparingly,  and  never  at  night,*  if  you 
value  their  health  and  your  own  sound  slumbers. 

Apple  Mince-Meat. 

2  lbs.  apples — pared  and 'chopped. 

J  lb.  beef  suet — cleared  of  strings  and  powdered. 

1  "    currants. 

^  "   raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

i  "    sultana  i-aisins. 

J  "    citron,  cut  into  shreds. 

1  lemon — -juice  and  grated  rind. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  "  mace. 

1  tablespoonful  allspice. 

2  lbs.  brown  sugar. 
Half-pint  best  brandy. 
A  glass  of  wine. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

Pack  down  in  a  stone  jai*,  with  close  covei*,  and  keep  in 
a  cool  place. 

Mock  Mince-Meat.  »{< 

6  soda  crackers — rolled  fine. 

2  cups  cold  water. 

1  cup  molasses. 

1    "    brown  sugar. 

1    "    sour  cider. 

1^  cup  melted  butter. 

1  cup  raisins — seeded  and  chopped. 

1    "    currants. 


PIES.  857 

2  eggs — beaten  light. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon  and  allspice  mixed. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

1  "  cloves. 

1  «  salt. 

1  "  black  pepper. 

1  wineglass  of  brandy. 

*^  Mince-pie  in  summer  is  a  pleasant  rarity,"  was  the 
remark  of  a  party  of  hungry  travellers,  in  semi-apology  for 
the  f3EU5t  that  every  plate  made  a  return  journey  to  the 
comely  landlady,  who  was  dispensing  generous  triangles  of 
pie.  She  smiled  gratifiedly,  but  said  nothing  in  reply,  un- 
til, when  the  gentlemen  had  strolled  off  to  the  woods  with 
their  cigars,  she  came  upon  me,  seated  alone  on  the  piazza, 
and  grew  confidential  under  the  influence  of  that  sort  of 
free-masonic  understanding  housekeepers  have  with  one 
another,  almost  at  sight. 

**I  had  to  laugh,"  said  the  good  soul,  "when  they 
praised  my  mince-pies.  They're  healthfuller  in  summer- 
time than  the  real  thing." 

I  took  down  the  receipt  on  the  spot  from  her  lips.  If 
any  one  doubts  the  merits  of  the  counterfeit,  let  her  do  as  I 
did — trv  it. 

Apple  Pie  (A^o.  1).  •{< 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  ripe,  tart  winter  apples — Pippins, 
Greenings,  or  Baldwins — line  your  dish  with  a  good  cnist, 
^ut  in  a  layer  of  fruit,  then  spiinkle  light-brown  sugar 
thickly  over  it,  scatter  half  a  dozen  whole  cloves  upon  this, 
lay  on  more  apples,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is  well  filled. 
Cover  with  crust  and  bake.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  the 
top  before  sending  to  table. 


858  COMMON  BEKSE. 

Apple  Pie  (iVb.  2).  >J* 

Stew  green  or  ripe  apples  when  you  have  pared  and 
cored  them.  Mash  to  a  smooth  compote,  sweeten  to  taste, 
and,  while  hot,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  butter  for  each  pie. 
Season  with  nutmeg.  When  cool,  fill  your  crust,  and 
either  cross-bar  the  top  with  strips  of  paste,  or  bake  with- 
out cover. 

Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  strewed  over  it. 

Apple  Custard  Pie.  »{< 

3  cups  stewed  apple. 
Nearly  a  cup  white  sugar. 
i)  eggs. 
1  quart  milk. 

Make  the  stewed  apple  very  sweet,  and  let  it  cool.  Beat 
the  eggs  light,  and  mix  the  yolks  well  with  the  apple,  sea- 
soning with  nutmeg  only.  Then  stir  in  gradually  the  milk, 
beating  as  you  go  on ;  lastly  add  the  whites ;  fill  your  crust 
and  bake  without  cover. 

Apple  Mkrinuue  Pies.  »{< 

Stew  and  sweeten  ripe,  juicy  apples,  when  you  have 
pared  and  sliced  them.  Mash  smooth,  and  season  with 
nutmeg.  If  yon  ]ike  the  flavor,  stew  some  lemon-peel  with 
the  apple,  and  remove  when  cold.  Fill  your  crust,  and 
bake  until  just  done.  Spread  over  the  apple  a  thick 
meringue,  made  by  whipping  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  for  each  pie,  sweetening  with  a  tablespoonfui 
of  powdered  sugar  for  each  egg.  Flavor  this  with  rose- 
water  or  vanilla ;  beat  until  it  will  stand  alone,  and  cover 
the  pie  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Set  back  in  the 
oven  until  the  meringue  is  well  "  set."  Should  it  color  too 
darkly,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  it  when  cold.     Eat  cold. 


PIES.  369 

They  are  very  fine. 

Peach  pies  are  even  more  delicious,  made  in  this  manner. 

Pippin  Pies. 

12  fine  ripe  pippins,  pared  and  grated. 

1  lb.  white  sugar. 

^  lb.  butter. 

6  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separately  beaten. 

1  lemon — grated  peel  and  juice,  with  nutmeg. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks, 
tlien  the  lemon,  nutmeg,  and  apple ;  lastly  the  whites,  very 
lightly.     Bake  in  paste,  with  cross-bars  of  the  same  on  top. 

Pumpkin  Pie  (No.  1).  >i< 

1  quai't  stewed  pumpkin — ^pressed  through  a  sieve. 
9  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

2  quaiis  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  mace. 

1  «  cinnamon,  and  the  same  of  nutmeg. 

1^  cup  white  sugar,  or  very  light  brown. 
Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  crust  without  cover. 

Pumpkin  Pie  (No.  2). 

1  quart  pumpkin— stewed  and  strained. 
1     «     milk. 
1  cup  sugar. 

7  eggs — ^beaten  very  light. 

1  teaspoonful  ginger,  and  same  of  mace  and  cinnamon 
each. 

Squash  Pie 

Is  made  precisely  like  pumpkin  pie,  except  that,  being 
less  rich,  it  requires  one  more  egg  for  each  pie. 


360  COMMON   8EK8E. 

Sweet-Potato  Pie  (No.  1). 

Parboil,  skin,  and  slice  crosswise  firm  sweet  potatoes. 
Line  a  dish  with  paste,  put  in  a  layer  of  sliced  potato, 
sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar,  scatter  among  them  a  few 
whole  cloves,  and  cover  with  more  slices.  Fill  the  dish  in 
this  order ;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  in  each 
pie ;  pour  in  a  little  water ;  cover  with  crust,  and  bake. 

Eat  cold. 

Sweet-Potato  Pie  (No.  2).  >!• 

1  lb.  mealy  sweet  potatoes.     The  firm  yellow  ones 

ai'e  best. 
i  cup  butter. 
}   "    white  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

4  eggs — ^whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
1  lemon,  juice  and  rind,  and  glass  of  brandy. 

Parboil  the  potatoes,  and  grate  them  when  quite  cold. 
K  grated  hot,  they  are  sticky  and  heavy.  Cream  the  but- 
ter and  sugar ;  add  the  yolk,  the  spice,  and  lemon ;  beat 
tJbe  potato  in  by  degrees  and  until  all  is  light ;  then  the 
brandy,  and  stir  in  the  whites.  Bake  in  dishes  lined  with 
good  paste — without  cover. 

You  may  make  a  pudding  of  this  by  baking  in  a  deep 
dish — well  buttered,  without  paste.     Cool  before  eating. 

Irish-Potato  Pie  {or  Pudding),  ^ 

1  lb.  mashed  potato,  rubbed  through  a  cullender. 

^  lb.  butter — creamed  with  the  sugai*. 

G  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separately. 

1  lemon — ^squeezcd  into  the  potato  while  hot 


PIES.  861 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  same  of  mace. 

2  cups  white  sugar. 

Mix  as  you  do  sweet  potato  pudding,  and  bake  in  open 
Hliells  of  paste.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

Lemon  Pie  {or  Transparent  Fudding).  >J« 

■J-  lb.  butter. 

1  lb.  sugar. 

6  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separately. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Grated  rind  of  two. 

1  nutmeg. 

^  glass  brandy. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beat  in  the  yolks,  the  lemon, 
spice,  and  brandy,  stirring  in  the  whites  at  the  last. 

Bake  in  pie-crust,  open. 

You  may,  if  you  wish  to  have  these  very  nice,  beat  up 
the  whites  of  but  four  eggs  in  the  mixture,  and  whip  the 
whites  of  four  more  into  a  meringue  with  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  sugar  and  a  little  lemon«juice,  to  spread  over  the  top 
of  each  pie. 

Eat  cold.     They  are  very  nice  baked  in  pattypans. 

Lemon  Pie  {N'o,  2). 

1  apple,  chopped  fine. 

legg. 

1  lemon,  chop  the  inside  very  fine  and  gi*ate  the  rind, 

1  cup  sugar. 

Butter,  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

This  is  just  enough  for  one  pie.  Take  the  thick  white 
rind  off  the  lemon  before  you  chop  it.  Take  out  tho  seeds 
carefully. 

10 


862  COMHON   8EXSE. 

Lemon  Cream  Pie.  »|< 

1  teacup  powdered  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

legg. 

1  lemon — juice  and  grated  rind,  removing  the  seeds  with 

care. 
1  teacupful  boiling  water. 
1  tablespoonful  corn-starch,  dissolved  in  cold  water. 

Stir  the  corn-starch  into  the  water,  cream  the  butter 
and-  sugar,  and  pour  over  them  the  hot  mixture.  When 
quite  cool,  add  lemon  and  the  beaten  egg.  Take  the  inner 
rind  off  the  lemon  and  mince  very  small. 

Bake  in  open  shell. 

I^EMON  Pie  (xVo.  3). 

1  great  spoonful  butter. 

J  cup  white  sugar. 

Juice  and  grated  peel  of  lemon. 

Bake  in  open  shells  of  paste. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks 
and  the  lemon,  and  bake.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  m6- 
ringue  with  three  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar  and  a  lit- 
tle rose-water.  When  the  pies  are  done,  take  from  the 
oven  just  long  enough  to  spread  the  m6ringue  over  the  top, 
and  set  back  for  three  minutes.  This  mixture  is  enough 
for  two  small,  or  one  good-sizod  pie. 

Eat  cold. 

Orange  Pie. 
3  eggs. 

J  cup  of  white  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 


PIES.  .   863 

1  orange — juice  and  half  the  grated  rind. 
J  lemon — juice  and  grated  peel. 
Kutmeg  to  taste. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  beating  in  the  orange  and 
lemon  until  very  light ;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  fill  two  pastry 
shells  and  bake.  Beat  the  whites  stiff  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
powdered  sugar,  and  when  the  pies  are  done,  spread  over 
them,  returning  to  the  oven  for  three  or  four  minutes. 

Lemon  Takt. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  lemons — all  the  juice,  and  a  teaspoonful  grated  peel. 
|-  teaspoonful  corn-starch,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water. 
A  dozen  raisins  stewed,  cut  in  two  and  seeded. 

Beat  up  well,  and  bake  with  upper  and  lower  crust. 

Orangk  Tartlets. 

2  fine  Havana  oi-anges,  juice  of  both,  and  grated  peel  of 

one. 
J  cup  of  sugar — ^  cup  if  the  oranges  are  very  sweet. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
i  lemon — juice  only,  to  wet  1  teaspoonful  corn-starch. 

Beat  all  weU  together,  and  bake  in  tartlet  shells  without 
cover. 

Chocolate  Tarts. 

4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks. 

i  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  grated. 

1  tablespoonful  corn-starch  dissolved  in  water. 

3  «  milk. 

4  **  white  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 


864  COMMON  6ENSE. 

^  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

1  "  butter,  melted. 

Bub  the  chocolate  smooth  in  the  milk  and  heat  to  boiling 
over  the  fire,  then  stir  in  the  corn-starch.  Stir  five  min- 
utes until  well  thickened,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  pour 
into  a  bowl.  Beat  all  the  yolks  and  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  well  with  the  sugar,  and  when  the  chocolate  mixture 
is  almost  cold,  put  all  together  with  the  flayoring,  and  stir 
until  light.  Bake  in  open  shells  of  pastry.  When  done, 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  flavored  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon-juice.     Eat  cold. 

These  are  nice  for  tea,  baked  in  pattypans. 

Cocoa-nut  Pie  {N'o.  1). 

^  lb.  grated  cocoa-nut. 

J  "   white  sugar  (powdered). 

6  oz.  butter. 

5  eggs — the  whites  only. 

1  glass  white  wine. 

2  tablespoonfuls  rose-water. 
1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Cream  tlie  butter  and  sugar,  and  when  well  mixed,  beat 
very  light,  with  the  wine  and  rose-water.  Add  the  cocoa- 
nut  with  as  little  and  as  light  beating  as  possible ;  finally, 
whip  in  the  stiffened  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  few  skilful 
strokes,  and  bake  at  once  in  open  shells.  Eat  cold,  with 
powdered  sugar  sifted  over  them. 

These  are  very  pretty  and  delightful  pies. 

Cocoa-nut  Pie  {N'o.  2). 

1  lb.  grated  cocoa-nut. 
i  «   butter. 


PIES.  365 

i  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

1  glass  of  brandy. 

2  teaspoonfuls  lemon-juice. 

4  eggs— white  and  yolks  separated. 
2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  beat  light  with  the 
brandy  and  lemon-juice ;  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks ;  lastly  the 
cocoa-nut  and  the  whites,  alternately.    Bake  in  open  shells. 

Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  over  it. 

Cocoa-nut  Custard  Pie. 

1  lb.  cocoa-nut,  grated. 
-)-  **  powdered  sugar. 
1  quart  milk,  unikmhTned. 
6  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

2  teaspoonfuls*  vanilla  or  rose-water. 

Boil  the  milk,  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  whip  in  grad- 
ually the  beaten  eggs.  When  nearly  cold,  season ;  add  the 
cocoa-nut,  and  pour  into  paste-shells.  Do  not  boil  the  egg 
and  milk  together.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Some  put  the  custard  quite  raw  into  the  pie-dishes,  but 
the  cocoa-nut  is  apt,  in  that  case,  to  settle  at  the  bottom. 

You  may,  however,  pour  the  raw  mixture  into  cups, 
and  bake  by  setting  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  stirring  well 
once,  as  they  begin  to  warm.  This  is  cocoa-nut  cup-cus- 
tard, and  is  much  liked. 

Ohocolate  Custard-pie. 

1  quarter-cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  grated, 

1  pint  boiling  water. 

6  eggs. 

1  quai*t  milk. 


866  COMMON   SENSE. 

^  cup  white  sugar. 
2  tcaspoonfuls  vanilla. 

DiKsolve  the  chocolate  in  a  very  little  milk,  stir  into 
the  boiling  water,  and  boil  three  minutes.  When  nearly 
cold,  beat  up  with  this  the  yolks  of  all  the  eggs  and  the 
whites  of  three.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the  ndlk,  season, 
and  pour  into  shells  of  good  paste.  When  the  custard  ia 
"  set " — but  not  more  than  half  done— spread  over  it  the 
whites,  whipped  to  a  froth,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

You  may  bake  these  custards  without  paste,  in  a  pud- 
ding-dish or  cups  set  in  boiling  water. 

Corn-starch  Custard  Pie.  •!• 

6  eggs. 

3  pints  milk. 

6  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

2  "  cora-starch. 

2  teaspoonfuls  essence  bitter  almonds. 

Boil  the  milk,  stir  in  the  corn-starch  wet  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  boil  one  minute.  When  nearly  cold,  stir  in  the 
sugar,  the  yolks  of  all  the  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  two ; 
flavor,  and  pour  into  your  paste-shells.  Whip  the  remain- 
ing whites  to  a  meringue,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  white 
sugar  and  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  vanilla,  and  when  the  custard 
is  just  "set,"  draw  your  pies  to  the  edge  of  the  oven  to 
spread  this  over  them.  Do  it  quickly,  lest  the  custard  fall 
by  exposure  to  the  air. 

You  may  bake  this  as  a  pudding  by  omitting  the  pastry. 
Eat  cold. 

If  you  have  not  corn-starch,  substitute  arrow-root  or 
rice-flour. 


PEES.  867 

Custard  Pie. 
4  eggs. 

1  quurt  of  milk. 

4  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

Flavor  wiili  vanilla  or  other  essence. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  light,  and  mix  with  the  milk ; 
flavor,  whip  in  the  whites,  which  should  be  already  a  stiff 
froth,  mix  well,  and  pour  into  shells.  Gi-ate  nutmeg  upon 
the  top. 

Bake  this  as  cup-custard,  or  a  custard  pudding,  in  cups 
or  a  deep  dish  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 

Peach  Pie.  »{< 

Peel,  stone,  and  slice  the  peaches.  Line  a  pie-plate 
with  a  good  crust,  and  lay  in  jour  fruit,  sprinkling  sugar 
liberally  over  them  in  proportion  to  their  sweetness.  Very 
ripe  peaches  require  comparatively  little.  Allow  three 
peach-kernels,  chopped  fine,  to  each  pie ;  pour  in  a  very 
little  water,  and  bake  with  an  upper  crust,  or  with  cross- 
bars of  paste  across  the  top. 

Some  simply  pare  the  peaches  and  put  in  whole,  pack- 
ing them  well,  and  sweetening  freely.  In  this  case  they 
should  be  covered  entirely  with  crust. 

For  one  of  the  most  delightful  pics  that  can  be  made  of 
any  fruit,  look  for  apple  miringue  pie,  and  substitute  peach- 
es. I  can  peaches  expressly  to  have  peach  mdiingues  in 
winter-time. 

CnERRY  Pie. 

Line  the  dish  with  a  good  crust,  and  fill  with  lipe  cher- 
ries, regulating  the  quantity  of  sugar  you  scatter  over  them 
by  their  sweetness.     Cover  and  bake. 

Eat  cold,  with  wlxito  sugar  sifted  over  the  top. 


868  OOMMON  SENSE. 

Blackberry,  Baspberrt,  and  Plum  Pies 
Are  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Currant  and  Raspberry  Tart,  tft 

To  three  cups  of  currants  allow  one  of  raspberries.  Mix 
well  together  before  you  fill  the  crust,  and  sweeten  abun- 
dantly.    Cover  with  crust  and  bake. 

Eat  cold,  with  white  sugar  sifted  over  it. 

Currant  Tart 

Is  made  as  above,  with  moft  sugar.  The  most  common 
fault  of  currant  pie  is  extreme  sourness.  Small  fruits 
should  be  looked  over  carefully  before  they  are  cooked. 
Currants  are  troublesome,  but  they  must  nevertheless  be 
looked  after  warily  on  account  of  their  extreme  stem- 
miness. 

Green  Gooseberry  Tart.  »{^ 

Top  and  tail  the  gooseberries.  Put  into  a  porcelain  ket- 
tle with  enough  water  to  prevent  burning,  and  stew  slowly 
until  they  break.  Take  them  ofi*,  sweeten  wdl^  and  set  aside 
to  cool.  When  cold  pour  into  pastry  shells,  and  bake  with 
a  top  crust  of  puff-paste.  Brush  all  over  with  beaten  egg 
while  hot,  set  back  in  the  oven  to  glaze  for  three  minutes. 

Eat  cold. 

Ripe  Gooseberry  Pie. 

Top  and  tail  the  berries.  Line  your  dish  with  crust, 
and  fill  with  berries,  strewing  white  sugar  among  them. 
Cover  and  bake. 

Damson  Tart. 

Pick  over  the  fruit,  put  in  a  dish  lined  with  pastry,  sweeten 
very  freely,  cover  and  bake.  Brush  with  beaten  egg  when 
done,  and  return  to  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  glaze. 


PIES.  369 

Cranberry  Tart. 

"Wash  and  pick  over  the  berries.  Put  into  a  porcelain 
saucepan  with  a  very  little  water,  and  simmer  until  they 
bui*st  open  and  become  soft.  Run  through  a  cullender  to 
remove  the  bkins,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Bake  in  pastry- 
shells,  with  a  cross-bar  of  pastry  over  the  top. 

Strawberry  Pie. 

Cap  and  pick  over  the  berries,  arrange  in  layers,  be- 
sprinkle with  a  good  coating  of  sugar,  in  a  shell  of  pastry. 
Fill  it  very  full,  as  strawberrief  shrink  very  much  in  cook- 
ing.    Cover  with  crust  and  bake. 

Huckleberry  pie  is  made  in  the  same  way, 

Creah  Baspberry  Tart,  tft 

Line  a  dish  with  paste  and  fill  with  raspberries,  made 
very  sweet  with  powdered  sugar.  Cover  with  paste,  but  do 
not  pinch  it  down  at  the  edges.  When  done,  lift  the  top 
crust,  which  should  be  thicker  than  usual,  and  pour  upon 
the  fruit  the  following  mixture : — 

1  small  cup  of  milk — half  cream,  if  you  can  get  it,  heated 
to  boiling. 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  light  and  stirred  into  the 
boiling  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

^  teaspoonful  corn-starch  wet  in  cold  milk. 

Boil  these  ingredients  three  minutes ;  let  them  get  per- 
fectly cold  before  you  put  them  into  the  tart.  Replace  the 
top  crust,  and  set  the  pie  aside  to  cool.  Sprinkle  sugar  over 
the  top  before  serving. 

You  make  strawberry  cream  tart  in  the  same  manner. 
16* 


370  COMMON   SENSE. 

Rhubarb  Taut.  (Open.) 

Skin  tho  stalks  with  care,  cut  into  small  pieces ;  put  into 
a  saucepan  with  very  little  water,  and  stew  slowly  until 
soft.  Sweeten  while  hot,  but  do  not  cook  the  sugar  with 
the  fruit.  It  injures  the  flavor,  by  making  it  taste  like  pre- 
serves. Have  ready  some  freshly-baked  shells.  Fill  up 
with  the  fruit  and  they  are  ready  to  serve. 

You  may,  after  sweetening  the  stewed  rhubarb,  stir  in  a 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut  for  each  pie,  also  a 
well-beaten  egg  for  each,  and  bake  in  pastry.  Lay  cross- 
bars of  paste  over  the  top. 

Rhubarb  Pie.  {Covered.) 

Skin  the  stalks,  cut  in  lengths  of  half  an  inch ;  strew 
lavishly  with  sugar,  and  fill  tlie  crusts  with  tho  raw  fruit. 
Some  scatter  seedless  i^aisins  among  the  rhubarb.  Cover, 
and  bake  neaily  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Binish  with 
egg  while  hot,  and  return  to  the  oven  to  glaze. 

Eat  cold,  as  you  do  all  fruit-pies. 


SERVANTS. 


Some  years  ago — more  than  I  care  to  count  over — I 
read  a  lively  little  book  entitled,  "  The  Greatest  Plague  of 
Life."  I  have  forgotten  who  wrote  it,  if  I  ever  knew.  It 
was  in  the  form  of  an  autobiography ;  the  heroine  called 
heraelf,  with  an  amusing  affectation  of  disguise,  ^^  Mrs. 
S-k-n-s-t-n,"  and  it  was  illustrated  by  George  Cruikshank. 
I  read  it  aloud  in  my  home-circle,  and  many  a  hearty  laugh 
wo  had  over  the  poor  lady's  peqilexitics  and  calamities. 

Regarding  the  history  us  a  clever  burlesque,  I  suffered 


SEIIVAKTS.  .  371 

no  appreciable  draught  upon  my  sympathies  until  time  and 
experience  brought  me  in  contact  with  so  many  who  echoed 
her  plaint,  that  I  could  not  but  recur,  now  and  then,  with  a 
half-sad  smile,  to  her  sufferings  under  the  rule  of  Norah, 
who  chased  her  up-stairs  with  a  carving-knife ;  with  Mary, 
who  drank  up  the  cherry-brandy,  filled  the  bottle  with  cold 
weak  tea,  and  kept  her  pit3ring  employers  up  all  night  to 
pull  her  through  an  epileptic  fit ;  with  John,  who  never  an- 
swered the  parlor  bell  "  unless  they  persewered ;  "  whose 
stomach  could  not  bear  cold  meat  at  dinner,  but  rallied 
bravely  under  a  couple  of  pounds  at  supper.  There  was 
one  nursery-maid  who  whipped  Mrs.  S-k-n-s-t-n's  child,  and 
another  who  upset  the  perambtdator  in  the  park,  and,  too 
much  absorbed  in  the  suit  of  a  whiskered  Guardsman  to 
note  what  had  happened,  went  on  dragging  the  carriage 
upon  its  side  until  the  baby's  cheek  was  cruelly  scarified  by 
the  gravel — besides  a  host  of  other  wnworthies  set  for  the 
distress  of  Mrs.  S-k-n-s-t-n's  mind,  body,  and  estate. 

"  Douglas  Jerrold  wrote  that  book,"  interrupted  a  friend 
at  my  elbow.  *'  And,  apropos  de  holies,  have  you  seen 
Punch's  recent  article,  *  Servantgalism ;  or.  What  Shall 
Be  Done  "With  the  Missusses  ? '  " 

"  The  malady  in  America  must  bear  another  name,"  rcr 
marks  a  lady,  gayly.  "  We  have  no  servants — at  least  in 
this  region.  My  cook  is  forty-seven  years  old,  and  my 
chambermaid  a  widow,  who  has  buried  two  children ;  yet 
they  would  be  highly  affronted  were  I  to  speak  of  them  ex- 
cept as  '  girls.'  It  is  a  generic  term  that  belongs  to  the 
class  *  who  live  out,'  from  sixteen  up  to  sixty.  I  had  a 
lesson  on  this  head  not  a  month  since.  My  laundress^ 
who  has  lived  with  me  six  years,  was  thanking  me  for  a  ser- 
vice I  had  done  her  brother. 

"  *  I'll  never  forget  you  for  it,  mem,'  she  sobbed.  *  I'll 
bless  you  for  it,  on  mo  knees,  night  and  morning,' 


372  COMMON  6SM6E. 

'<  I  am  glad  I  have  been  able  to  help  your  friends, 
Katy,''  I  said.  '^  You  have  been  a  faithfid  servant  to 
me " 

She  cut  my  sentence  in  the  middle  by  \valking  out  of 
the  room — ^I  supposed,  to  conceal  her  emotions.  I  was  un- 
deceived, five  minutes  later,  vhen  her  angry  tones  reached 
me  from  the  kitchen,  the  door  of  which  she  had  left  open. 

<<  r\\  never  believe  a  person  has  a  good  heart,  or  de- 
serves to  be  called  a  Christian,  who  names  an  honest, 
respectable  girl  who  tries  to  do  her  duty,  a  servant  I  ^  A 
fiedthful  servant ! '  says  she  ;  '  as  if  she  was  a  queen  and  me- 
self  a  beggar  ! ' " 

''  What  did  you  say  to  the  ungrateful  wretch  ?  ^^  aslcs  a 
listener,  indignantly. 

"  Nothing.  I  went  quietly  out  of  hearing,  reminded, 
for  the  hundi*cdth  time,  of  Solomon^s  warning,  ^  Take  no 
heed  unto  all  words  that  are  spoken,  lest  thou  hear  thy 
servant  curse  thee.'  I  recalled,  too,  the  saying  of  a 
mightier  than  the  Royal  Preacher:  *  Whosoever  will  be 
greatest  among  you,  let  him  be  your  servant.'^ " 

**  I  thought  you  were  one  of  the  favored  few  who  had 
no  trouble  with  them,''  says  another  housekeeper,  sighingly. 
"  There  is  real  comfort, — excuse  me,  my  dear  Mrs.  Ster- 
ling,— ^but  it  is  refreshing  to  a  weaiied  soul  to  know  that 
you  have  felt  some  of  our  tribulations.  It  seems  to  me,  at 
times,  that  there  is  no  other  affliction  worthy  the  name 
when  compared  with  what  we  endure  from  the  '  Necessary 
Evil.'  I  have  tried  all  sorts — the  representatives  from 
every  nation  under  heaven,  I  verily  believe — and  they  are 
all  alike  !     They  will  wear  me  into  an  untimely  grave  yet." 

"  I  wouldn't  let  them,  my  dear  Martha,"  replies  Mrs. 
Sterling,  with  her  sunny  smile.  "  If  evils,  they  are  surely 
minor  afflict  ions.  And,  after  all,  I  imagine  *  they '  arc  a 
good   deal  like  the  rest  of  man  and  womankind — pretty 


8EfiVA19TB.  873 

much  as  you  choose  to  take  them.  The  truth  is,  there  is 
no  justice  in  wholesale  denunciation  of  any  class.  You 
I'ecollect  the  Western  orator's  truism,  *  Human  nature, 
Mr.  President,  nine  cases  out  of  ten,  is  human  nature.' 
When  I  consider  the  influences  under  which  a  majority  of 
our  servants  have  been  reared- — ignorance,  poverty,  super- 
stition, often  evil  example  in  their  homes — my  wonder  is, 
not  at  the  worthlessness  of  some,  but  that  so  many  are 
virtuous,  honest,  and  orderly.  You  will  allow  that,  as  a 
general  thing,  they  are  quite  as  industrious  as  their  mis- 
tresses, and  control  their  tempers  almost  as  well.  And  we 
make  so  many  mistakes  in  our  dealings  with  them  !  " 

My  old  friend  does  not  often  lecture,  but  she  has  some- 
thing to  say  now,  and  forgets  herself  in  her  subject. 

"  We  err  so  grievously  in  our  management,  that  a  sense 
of  our  failures  should  teach  us  charity.  Do  we  understand, 
ourselves,  what  is  the  proper  place  of  a  hired  *  help '  in  our 
families  ?  If  ifc  is  the  disposition  of  Mrs.  Shoddy  to  tram- 
ple upon  them  as  soulless  machines,  Mrs.  Kindly  makes  a 
sort  of  elder  daughter  of  her  maid ;  indulges,  consults, 
and  confides  in  her,  and  wonders,  by-and-by,  to  find  herself 
under  Abigail's  thumb — her  husband  and  children  subject 
to  the  caprices  of  a  pampered  menial.  I  never  hear  a  lady 
say  of  a  valued  domestic,  *  I  could  not  get  along  without 
her,'  without  anticipating  as  a  certainty  the  hour  when 
she  sliall  annoimce,  ^  There  is  such  a  thing  as  keeping  a 
servant  too  long.'  The  crisis  comes,  then,  to  Mrs.  Kindly. 
In  a  moment  of  desperatioir  she  frees  her  neck  from  the 
yoke.  Abigail  packs  her  six  trunks,  havinc:  entered  Mrs. 
Kindly's  se^ce,  seven  years  before,  with  her  worldly  all 
done  up  in  a  newspaper,  shakes  the  dust  off  the  neat  Bal- 
moral boots  which  have  replaced  her  brogans,  against  the 
lieartless  tyrant  who  sits  crying,  in  her  own  room  up-stairs, 
over  thoughts  of  how  Abigail  has  been  so  clean,  quick,  and 


374  COMMON   8EN6E. 

devoted  to  her  interests ;  how  she  has  nursed  her  through 
a  long  and  dangerous  illness,  and  had  the  charge  of  Emma 
and  Bobby  from  their  birth.  She  has  prepared  a  handsome 
present  for  her  in  memory  of  all  this,  and  is  hurt  more 
than  by  anything  else  when  she  learns  that  the  girl  has 
taken  her  final  departure  without  even  kissing  the  baby. 

^^  It  is  not  strange  that  the  deceived  mistress  should,  from 
that  day,  write  down  Abigail  a  monster  of  ingratitude,  and 
forget  the  faithful  service  of  years  in  the  smart  of  wounded 
feeling;  when  the  truth  is  that  she  did  the  maid  more 
injury  by  injudicious  petting,  than  the  latter  could  do  her 
mistress  had  she  absconded  with  all  the  plate  in  the  house. 
She  has,  as  might  have  been  expected,  proved  Abigail's  un- 
fitness to  be  her  confidante  and  co-adviser ;  but,  at  the  same 
time,  she  has  filled  her  brain  with  notions  of  her  superior- 
ity to  her  fellow-servants,  her  heart  with  burnings  for  the 
higher  station  she  can  never  occupy, 

"  I  speak  feelingly  upon  this  subject,"  continues  Mrs. 
Sterling,  with  a  laugh ;  "  for  I  was  once  led  into  this 
very  mistake  myself,  by  the  attractive  qualities  of  a  young 
woman  who  lived  with  me  nine  years  as  seamstress  and 
chambermaid.  She  was  so  even-tempered,  so  sensible,  in- 
dustrious, and  respectful,  that  she  gained  upon  the  esteem 
of  us  all.  One  day,  while  we  sat  together  at  work,  I  told 
her  of  some  family  changes  in  prospect,  prefacing  the  com- 
munication by  the  remark,  *  I  want  to  speak  to  you  of 
something,  Eliza,  which  you  must  not  mention  to  any  one 
else  at  present.  The  interests  of  an  employer  and  a  ser- 
vant should  bo  the  same.' 

"  Then,  very  foolishly,  I  opened  up  my  mind  freely  on 
the  subject  that  engaged  it.  She  answered  modestly,  but 
intelligently,  entering  into  my  plans  with  such  cordial  in- 
terest and  pledges  of  coo])eration,  that  I  went  to  prepare 
for  a  walk,  feeling  really  strengthened  and  cheered  by  the 


6EKVANT8.  375 

talk.  At  the  frout  door  I  was  met  by  a  letter  I'oquiring  an 
immediate  reply.  Betuming  to  my  chamber  to  lay  off  my 
hat  and  shawl,  I  heard  Eliza  talking  loudly  and  gleefully, 
in  the  adjoining  sewing-room,  with  the  cook,  whom  she 
must  have  called  upnstairs  through  the  speaking-tube.  You 
camiot  imagine,  nor  I  describe,  my  sensations  at  listening, 
against  my  will,  to  an  exaggerated  account  of  the  inter- 
view which  had  just  taken  place.  Not  only  my  language, 
but  my  tones  were  mimicked  with  great  gusto  and  much 
laughter  by  my  late  confidante— -the  phi-ase  ^  The  interests 
of  the  employer  and  the  servant  should  be  the  same' 
occurring  again  and  again,  and  forming,  apparently,  the 
cream  of  the  joke.  I  was  very  angry.  But  for  the  rule 
adopted  early  in  my  married  life,  never  to  reprove  a  r.or- 
vant  when  out  of  humor,  I  should  instantly  have  ordered 
the  treacherous  creature— as  I  named  her — from  the  house. 
I  sat  down  instead,  to  cool  off  and  to  think.  With  reflec- 
tion, common  sense  rallied  to  my  aid. 

"  '  The  girl  does  well  enough  in  her  place,  which  is  that 
of  a  hired  chambermaid  and  seamstress,'  said  this  monitor. 
'  She  knew  her  position,  and  would  have  kept  it,  but  for 
your  folly  in  dragging  her  up  to  temporary  equality  with 
yourself.  You  made  yourself  ridiculous,  and  she  was 
shrewd  enough  to  see  it.  Take  the  lesson  to  heart ;  write 
it  out  in  full  for  future  guidance,  and  keep  your  own 
counsel.' 

"  Eliza  never  suspected  my  discovery.  She  remained 
with  me  until  her  maniage  a  year  afterward,  and  we  parted 
upon  good  terms." 

I  have  quoted  from  my  friend  at  length,  because  I  honor 
her  excellent  judgment  and  mature  experience,  and  because 
I  agree  so  fully  with  her  touching  the  evil  of  so-called  con- 
fidential servants.  The  principle  of  acknowledged  favoiit- 
ism  is  ruinous  to  domestic  tfomfort,  let  who  may  bo  the 


376  COMMON   6KNSE. 

object  thus  distinguished.  Kely  upon  it,  my  dear  lady,  at 
least  ono-third  of  home-wrangles  and  social  scandal  arises 
from  this  cause.  Be  assured,  also,  that  if  you  do  not  per- 
ceive the  impropriety  of  lowering  yourself  to  the  level  of 
your  subordinates,  they  will,  and  gauge  their  behavior  ac- 
cordingly. The  connection  is  an  unnatural  one,  and,  like 
all  others  of  the  kind,  must  teiminate  disastrously  in  time. 
Then  the  discarded  favorite,  aggrieved  and  exaspei*ated, 
leaves  your  house  to  tattle  in  the  ears  of  some  other  indis- 
creet mistress,  of  your  sayings  and  doings.  Show  your 
servant  that  you  respect  yourself  and  her  too  truly  to  for- 
get what  is  due  to  both.  Be  kind,  pleasant,  always  reason- 
able and  attentive  to  her  needs,  willing  to  hearken  to  and 
meet  any  lawful  request.  Make  her  comfortable,  and,  so 
far  as  you  can,  happy. 

Excuse  one  moi-e  quotation  from  Mrs.  Sterling,  whom, 
when  I  was  much  younger  than  I  am  now,  I  consulted 
with  regard  to  the  just  medium  between  familiaiity  and 
austerity. 

^^  llemenibcr  they  are  human  beings,  and  treat  them  as 
sucli,"  she  said.  *'  Not  that  you  are  likely  to  reap  a  large 
reward  in  their  gratitude,  but  because  it  is  right,  and  be- 
cause you  find  no  exceptions  to  the  practice  of  the  Golden 
Kule  laid  down  in  the  Bible.  Be  faithful  in  your  obedience 
to  the  law  of  kindness.  With  the  return  tide  you  have 
nothing  to  do.  This  is  a  safe  and  straight  pith.  I  believe 
it  to  be  also  the  smoothest.  You  will  be  better  and  more 
cheerfully  served  than  your  neighbor,  who,  recognizing  in 
every  hireling  a  natural  enemy,  is  always  on  the  defensive." 

I  have  found  the  most  serious  obstacle  to  a  comfortable 
pursuance  of  her  safe  path,  to  lie  in  this  same  prejudice — 
rooted  by  centuries  of  misunderstandings  and  caste- wars — 
the  belief  of  necessary  antagonism  between  employ  era  and 
employed.     Mrs.  Storling's  Eliza  only  expressed  the  pre- 


sEEVAirrs.  377 

vailing  sentiment  of  her  class,  when  she  ridiculed  her 
mistress'  proposition  that  their  interests  ought  to  be  identi- 
cal. I  have  failed  so  often  and  so  signally  in  the  endeavor 
to  impress  the  merits  of  this  policy  upon  domestics,  that  I 
rarely  attempt  it  now.  There  is  always  a  suspicion — ^more 
or  less  apparent — ^that  you  have  a  single  eye  to  self-interest 
in  all  your  regulations  and  counsels.  ^^What  does  she 
hope  to  gain  ?  What  am  I  in  danger  of  losing  ?  "  are  the 
queries  that  invariably  present  themselves  to  the  subordi- 
nate's mind.  The  arguments  by  which  your  plans  are  sup- 
ported are  thrown  away  upon  ignorant  and  illogical  listen- 
ers— ^your  array  of  facts  totally  disbelieved.  Your  auditor 
does  not  say  this,  but  in  divers  and  ingenious  ways  she 
contrives  to  let  you  know  that  she  is  not  so  silly  as  to  be 
imposed  upon  by  the  specious  array  of  evidence. 

For  how  much  of  this  are  mistresses  responsible  ?  Has 
this  creed  of  distrust  been  learned  by  experience  of  injustice 
or  exaction,  or  is  it  one  of  the  popular  prejudices,  which 
are  harder  to  overthrow  than  sound  and  well-established 
principle?  Of  one  thing  I  am  certain:  Mistresses  and 
maids  would  more  speedily  come  to  a  right  understanding 
of  oneness  of  interest  but  for  the  influence  exerted  over  the 
former  by  Mrs.  Jones,  Mrs.  Robinson,  and  Mrs.  Brown, 
who  don't  allow  this,  and  couldn't  think  of  that,  and  never 
heard  of  the  other  privilege  or  immunity  being  granted  to 
servants.  Before  they  would  yield  such  a  point,  or  submit 
to  one  syllable  of  dictation,  they  would  do  all  their  own 
work,  etc.,  etc.  Poor  Mrs.  PKable,  listening  dumbly  and 
meekly,  goes  home  with  a  low-spirited  sense  of  her  own 
pusillanimity  upon  her,  and  tries  to  assert  her  authority 
and  redeem  past  faults  by  a  sudden  tightening  of  the  reins 
that  results  in  a  runaway  and  general  smash-up. 

Cannot  we  remember — ^you  and  I — my  dear  reader,  that 
we  may  sometimes  be  as  nearly  right  as  those  who  talk  more 


378  COMMON    8EN8E. 

loudly  and  strongly  than  we  upon  domestic  economy,  laying 
down  mles  we  never  thought  of  suggesting;  splitting  into 
ninths  a  hair  our  short-sighted  eyes  cannot  make  out  when 
whole,  and  annihilating  our  timid  objections  with  a  lordly 
*'  Zalways  do  so,"  which  is  equal  to  a  decree  of  infiedlibility  ? 
Cannot  we  make  up  our  minds,  once  and  for  all,  to  be  a  law 
unto  ourselves  in  all  matters  pertaining  to  our  households  ? 
Mrs.  Jones'  rule  may  be  good  for  her ;  Mrs.  Kobinson's 
better  than  any  other  in  her  particular  case,  and  Mrs. 
Brown's  best  of  all  for  one  in  her  peculiar  circumstances ; 
yet  any  one  or  all  of  them  be  unsuitable  for  oiir  use. 

Avoid  talking  about  your  domestic  affairs  with  people 
whose  gossip  on  these  topics  is  incessant.  You  are  angry 
when  a  whiff  of  some  such  discussion  as  enlightened  Mrs. 
Sterling,  with  regard  to  our  mistake,  is  wafted  to  you 
through  the  dumb-waiter  or  register,  an  accident  that  will 
occur  while  the  tones  of  the  plaintiffs  ai*o  loud  and  untrain- 
ed by  education  or  policy.  It  is  mean  and  unkind — traitor- 
ous, in  fact,  you  say,  for  them  so  to  misrepresent  and  revile 
you — after  all  the  kindness  you  have  showed  to  them,  too  ! 
Bridget,  Chloe,  or  Gretchen,  passing  the  parlor-door  and 
catching  the  sound  of  her  name  as  roughly  handled,  may 
have  her  own  sensations,  and  draw  her  own  inferences — 
beinff  human  like  yourself.  It  is  tiresome  and  vulgar,  this 
everlasting  exchange  of  experiences  about  "  my  girl,"  and 
"  your  girl,"  and  everybody  else's  "  girl."  It  is  time  sensi- 
ble women  ceased,  in  this  respect,  to  imitate  the  fashion  of 
the  class  they  censure,  and  put  down  the  bootless  battle 
with  a  strong  will.  Order  your  household,  then,  so  far 
alight  as  you  can  by  the  help  of  common  sense  and  grace 
from  on  high,  and  let  Mesdames  Jones,  Bobinson,  and 
Brown  look  to  the  ways  of  their  own,  and  expend  their 
surplus  energies  upon  their  neighbors'  concerns — counting 
you  out. 


8BKVANTS.  379 

(I  believe  that  is  slang,  but  let  it  stand !) 

These  worthy  and  fussy  housewives  act  upon  the  sup- 
jiosition  that  all  "  girls ''  are  cast  in  the  same  mould.  Being 
human  (do  not  let  us  forget  that !),  the  probability  is,  that 
there  are  varieties  of  the  species. 

But,  if  the  mistresses  are  led  by  their  associates,  the 
"girl's"  "acquaintances"  sway  her  yet  more  powerfully. 
Every  conscientious,  well-meaning  housewife  knows  what  a 
brake  is  this  informal,  but  terrible  "  Union  "  upon  her  en- 
deavors to  improve  and  really  benefit  those  under  her  di- 
rection. I  have  been  amazed  and  disgusted  at  the  tyranny 
exercised  by  this  irresponsible  body  over  the  best  servants 
I  have  ever  seen. 

"  We  would  be  hooted  at,  ma'am,  if  we  dida't  give  in 
to  them,"  said  one,  when  I  represented  how  senseless  and 
almost  suicidal  was  the  course  recommended  by  these  evil 
advisers.  "  There's  not  a  girl  in  town  would  speak  to  us 
if  we  didn't  join  in  with  the  rest.  It's  like  a  strike,  you 
see — ^awful  upon  them  as  holds  back." 

Do  not,  then,  my  discouraged  fellow-laborer,  imagine 
that  I  anf  ignorant  of  your  trials,  your  doubts,  your  dis- 
heartening experiences.  If  I  disagree  with  Mrs.  S-k-n-s-t-n 
and  do  not  pronounce  our  servants  to  be  the  greatest  plague 
of  life,  inclining  rather  to  the  belief  that — always  allow- 
ing for  human  nature  and  the  drawbacks  I  have  entmicr- 
ated — ^good  mistresses  are  apt  to  make  good  servants,  it 
is  in  consequence  of  long  and  careful  study  and  observa- 
tion of  the  practical  working  of  Mrs.  Sterling's  rule.  Like 
begets  like.  Pleasant  words  are  more  likely  to  be  an- 
swered by  pleasant  than  are  tart  or  hasty  ones.  If  you 
would  have  your  servants  respectful  to  you,  be  respectful 
to  them.  The  best  way  to  teach  them  politeness  is  by 
example.  It  should  not  cost  you  an  effort  to  say,  "  Thank 
you,"  or  "If  you  please."    The  habit  exerts  an  unconscious 


380  COMMON  SENSE. 

refining  influcnco  upon  them,  and  you  dignify  instead  of 
degrading  your  ladyhood  by  being  pitiful  and  courteous 
te  all.  If  you  can  only  maintain  your  position  by  haugh- 
tiness and  chilling  disregard  of  the  feelings  of  inferiors, 
your  rank  is  false,  or  you  unfit  to  hold  it. 

To  begin,  then:  Be  mistress  of  yourself.  Amid  all 
your  temptations  to  angry  or  sarcastib  speech  (and  how 
many  and  how  strong  these  are,  you  and  I  know),  curb 
yourself  with  the  recollection  that  it  is  despicable,  no  less 
than  useless,  to  say  cutting  things  to  one  who  has  no  right 
to  retort  upon  you  in  kind. 

"  Ma',"  says  Miss  Aiirelia  in  Miss  Sedgwick's  admirable 
story,  "Live  and  let  Live" — "how  can  you  let  your  help  be 
so  saucy  to  you  ?  " 

Master  Julius,  who  was  standing  by,  took  a  different 
view  of  the  matter. 

"If  Ma'  doesn't  want  her  help  to  be  sarcy  to  her,"  he 
said,  "  she  hadn't  ought  to  be  sarcf/  to  them." 

Teach  your  children  the  like  forms  of  kindly  speech 
and  habits  of  consideration  for  the  comfort  and  happiness 
of  your  domestics,  checking  with  equal  promptn^  undue 
freedom  and  the  arrogance  of  station.  It  is  as  gracefiil  to 
bend  as  it  is  mean  to  grovel. 

Learn  not  to  see  everything,  and,  so  soon  as  you  can, 
put  &r  from  you  the  delusive  hope  that  anybody  else — 
unless  it  be  dear  old  John — ^will  ever  serve  you  as  well 
as  you  would  serve  yourself.  This  failure  is  attributable 
to  some  one  of  the  nine-tenths  we  spoke  of  just  now.  She 
is  a  prudent  housekeeper  who  can  wink  at  trifling  blemishes 
without  effort  or  parade.  There  is  one  text  which  has 
come  into  my  troubled  mind  hundreds  of  times  on  such 
occasions,  calming  perturbation  into  solemnity,  and  bring- 
ing, I  hope,  charity  with  humility : — 


SEBVAin^s.  881 

'*  If  lluyUy  Lord,  shouldst  mark  iniquities,  O  Lord, 
who  shall  stand  ?  " 

But  if  your  hold  of  the  rein  be  gentle,  let  it  also  be 
firm.  Never  forget  that  the  house  is  yours,  and  that  you 
— not  hirelings — are  responsible  for  the  disposition  of  the 
stores  purchased  with  John's  money. 

'^I  was  much  amused  the  other  day,"  said  an  easy- 
tempered  lady  to  me,  ^^  at  a  talk  that  passed  under  my  win* 
dow  between  my  new  cook  and  one  of  her  visitors. 

'^  ^  And  how  are  ye  gitting  along  ? '  asked  the  guest. 

"  *  Oh !  pretty  well-ish,  now,'  was  the  reply.  *  I  was 
a-feard,  when  I  first  come,  that  slie  would  bother  me  a-trot- 
ting  down  into  the  kitchen  so  constant.  But  I  give  her  a 
hint  as  how  that  wasn't  the  trick  of  a  raal  lady,  and  she's 
kep'  out  nicely  sence  then.  You've  got  to  stand  up  for 
your  own  rights  in  this  wurrld,  or  you'll  be  trod  upon.' " 

Now,  it  would  be  throwing  away  words  to  reason  with 
a  woman  like  that  cook,  or  a  mistress  might  show  that  in 
no  other  department  of  labor  would  such  a  principle  be 
tolerated — ^that  from  the  Secretary  of  State  down  to  the 
scavenger  who  empties  your  ash-pan,  every  employ^  who 
draws  wages  has  an  overlooker,  to  whom  he  is  accountable 
for  the  manner  in  which  his  work  is  done  and  his  money 
earned ;  and  that  the  fact  that  she  is  an  ignorant,  high- 
tempered  woman  is  no  just  cause  of  exemption.  Yet  in 
how  many  families  is  this  point  tacitly  yielded,  and  the 
mistress  admitted  upon  sufferance  to  her  own  kitchen — the 
room  furnished  with  her  money,  and  in  which  she  hardly 
dare  touch  or  look  at  the  articles  intended  for  the  consump- 
tion of  her  own  family  ? 

One  often  hears  such  remarks  as,  "  It  isn't  every  girl 
who  will  stand  having  the  mistress  popping  in  and  out 
while  she  is  at  work."  When,  in  any  other  situation,  the 
very  fact  of  this  unwillingness  to  have  the  owner  of  the 


382  COMHON  SENSE. 

materials  used  in  that  work  present,  would  be  strong  pre- 
sumptive proof  of  negligence  or  dishonesty.  The  princi- 
ple is  pernicious  from  beginning  to  end,  and  should  not  be 
tolerated  for  an  instant. 

It  gives  me  pleasure  to  state  here,  that  I  know  nothing 
personally  of  this  curious  reversal  of  the  rights  of  employer 
and  domestic.  I  am  inclined  to  believe,  if  one-half  I  hear 
of  other  housewives'  trials  be  true,  that  I  have  been  highly 
favored  among  American  women.  My  authority  in  the 
kitchen,  as  in  other  parts  of  the  household,  has  never  been 
disputed — ^in  my  hearing  or  presence,  that  is.  I  have 
always  met  with  a  cheerful  reception  below-stairs  when  I 
appeared  there  to  direct  or  share  the  labors  of  my  cooks ; 
have  found  them  willing  to  undertake  new  dishes,  and 
ready  to  learn  my  "  way,"  however  unlike  it  might  be  to 
their  own.  As  a  rule,  also, — ^to  which  the  exceptions  have 
been  few  and  very  fax  between, — ^tliose  employed  by  me 
have  been  cleanly,  industrious,  kind-hearted,  and  respect- 
ful ;  patient  under  inconveniences,  and  attentive  in  sick- 
ness. I  should  not,  therefore,  do  my  duty,  did  I  not  Hft 
my  voice  in  a  plea  for  charitable  judgment,  just  and  gen- 
erous treatment  of  a  class  which,  however  faulty,  have 
much  to  do  and  to  endure.  Mrs.  Skinflint's  grocer's  ac- 
count may  be  less  than  yours,  if  you  adopt  this  policy — 
Mrs.  Sharp's  coal-cellar  be  better  dusted,  and  the  paint  in 
her  attic  scrubbed  oftener ;  but  I  believe,  in  the  long  run, 
you  will  be  tho  most  comfortable  in  body  as  in  conscience. 
Your  machinery  will  move  with  fewer  jerks  and  less  fric- 
tion. Your  servants  will  remain  with  you  longer,  and  be 
better-tempered  while  they  stay,  if  you  show  that  you  ap- 
preciate tho  £ekct  of  a  common  humanity;  that  you  owe 
them  duties  you  are  resolved  to  fulfil  during  their  sojourn 
under  your  roof,  however  mercenary  may  be  their  perform- 
ance of  those  devolving  upon  them. 


PTJDDINGS,  388 

Finally,  dear  sister,  do  not  add  to  the  real  miseries  of 
life  by  regarding  the  annoyance  of  a  careless,  slothful,  or 
impertinent  domestic  as  a  real  trouble.  Class  it  \7ith  petty 
vexations  which  are  yet  curable  as  well  as  endurable,  and 
live  above  it — a  noble,  beneficent  existence  in  the  love  of 
your  fellow-creatures  and  the  fear  of  God — a  life  that  can- 
not suffer  perceptible  disturbance  from  such  a  contemptible 
rootlet  of  bitterness  as  this.  It  is  only  the  feeble,  the 
inefficient,  or  the  indolent  mistress  whose  peace  of  mind  is 
'dependent  upon  such  casualties  as  a  breeze,  a  hurricane,  or 
a  sudden  vacancy  in  the  department  of  the  interior. 

Becollect,  when  the  infliction  is  sharpest,  that  brier- 
pricks  are  disagreeable,  but  never  serious,  unless  the  blood 

be  very  impure. 

♦ 

PUDDINGS. 

I  have,  for  convenience  sake,  classed  among  pies  all 
preparations  baked  in  crust  in  a  pie-dish.  Many  of  these, 
however,  are  called  puddings,  such  as  custards  of  various 
kinds,  lemon,  cocoa-nut,  and  orange  puddings.  The  reader 
will  have  no  trouble  in  finding  the  receipts  for  these,  if  she 
will  bear  the  above  remark  in  mind. 

Baked  Puddings. 

Beat  your  eggs  very  light — and,  if  you  put  in  only  one 
or  two,  whip  white  and  yolk  separately,  beating  the  latter 
into  the  sugar  before  adding  the  whites.  ' 

Fruit,  rice,  corn-starch,  and  bread  puddings  require  a 
steady,  moderate  oven  in  baking.  Custard  and  batter  pud- 
dings should  be  put  into  the  dish,  and  this  into  the  oven, 
the  instant  they  are  mixed,  and  baked  quickly.  No  pud- 
ding, unless  it  be  raised  with  yeast,  should  be  allowed  to 


384  COMMON  BENBE. 

stand  out  of  the  oven  after  the  ingredients  are  put  together. 
Give  one  final  hard  stir  jnst  hefore  it  goes  in,  and  be  sure 
the  mould  is  well  greased. 

Apple  Meringue  Pudding. 

1  pint  stewed  apples. 

3  eggs — ^white  and  yolk  separate. 

•J-  cup  white  sugar,  and  one  teaspoonful  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  mixed. 

1  ^^  essence  bitter  almond  (for  the  meringue). 

Sweeten  and  spice,  and,  while  the  apple  is  still  very 
hot,  stir  in  the  butter,  and,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  yolks. 
Beat  all  light,  pour  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  ten  min- 
utes. Cover,  without  drawing  from  the  oven,  with  a  me- 
ringue made  of  the  bea.ten  whites,  two  tablespoonfuls  white 
sugar,  and  the  bitter  almond  seasoning.  Spread  smoothly 
and  quickly,  close  the  oven  again,  and  brown  very  slightly. 

Eat  cold,  with  white  sugar  sifted  over  the  top,  and  send 
around  cream  to  pour  over  it  instead  of  sauce. 

Baked  Apple  Pudding. 

6  large  firm  pippins  (grated). 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
^  cup  sugar. 

4  eggs— whites  and  yolks  separate. 
Juice  of  one  lemon,  and  half  the  peel. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  stir  in  the  yolks,  the 
lemon,  the  grated  apple,  lastly  the  whites.  Grate  nutmeg 
over  the  top,  and  bake  until  nicely  browned. 

Eat  cold  with  cream. 


y 


baked  puddings.  886 

Sweet  Apple  Pudding.  ^ 

1  quart  milk. 

4  eggs. 

3  cups  chopped  apple. 

1  lemon — all  the  juice  and  half  the  rind. 

Kutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

^  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  vinegar. 

Flour  for  a  stiff  batter. 

Beat  the  yolks  very  light,  add  the  milk,  seasoning,  and 
flour.  Stir  hard  five  minutes,  and  beat  in  the  apple,  then 
the  whites,  lastly  the  soda,  well  mixed  in. 

Bake  in  two  square  shallow  pans  one  hour,  and  eat 
hot,  with  sweet  sauce.  Much  of  the  success  of  this  pudding 
depends  upon  the  mixing — almost  as  much  upon  the  baking. 
Cover  with  paper  when  half  done,  to  prevent  hardening. 

Pippin  Pudding.  fcj< 

8  fine  pippins,  pared,  cored,  and  sliced,  breaking  them 
as  little  as  possible. 

1  cup  very  fine  bread-crumbs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  butter — melted. 

5  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separate. 
}  cup  sugar. 

1  oz.  citron,  shred  finely. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  a  dozen  whole  cloves. 

1  cup  milk  or  cream. 

Soak  the  bread-crumbs  in  the  milk,  cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  and  beat  into  this  the  yolks.  Next,  adding  the 
milk  and  soaked  bread,  stir  untU  very  smooth  and  light. 
Put  in  the  nutmeg  and  citron,  and  w^hip  in  the  whites 
lightly.  Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  in  your  sliced  apple, 
sprinkling  each  piece  well  with  sugar,  and  scatteiing  the 

17 


386  COMMON  8EN6S. 

cloves  among  them.     Pour  the  custard  you  have  prepared 
over  them,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  top,  and  eat  cold. 

Bbown  Betty.  ^ 

1  cup  bread-crumbs. 

2  cups  chopped  apples — ^taiii. 
^  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  cut  into  small  bits. 

Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  a  layer  of  the  chopped 
apple  at  the  bottom;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  a  few  bits  of 
butter,  and  cinnamon ;  cover  with  bread-crumbs ;  then  more 
apple.  Proceed  in  this  order  until  the  dish  is  full,  having 
a  layer  of  crumbs  at  top.  Cover  closely,  and  steam  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven ;  then  uncover  and 
brown  quickly. 

Eat  warm  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  sweet  sauce. 

This  is  a  homely  but  very  good  pudding,  especially  for 
the  children's  table.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is 
baked. 

Apple  Batteb  Pudding. 

1  pint  rich  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 
4  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

^  ^^  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Peel  and  core  eight  apples  carefully,  and  range  them  close- 
ly together  in  a  deep  dish.  Beat  the  batter  very  light  and 
pour  over  them.  Unless  the  apples  are  very  ripe  and  sweet 
(for  tart  apples),  fill  the  centre  of  each  with  white  sugar. 
Bake  an  hour,  and  eat  hot  with  sweet  sauce. 


BAKED  PUDDINGS.  887 

Apple  and  Plxtm  Pudding. 

f  lb.  fine  tart  apples,  pared  and  chopped. 

J  "  sugar. 

}  "  flour. 

i  "  beef  suet,  rubbed  fine. 

f  '*  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

6  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg  and  the  same  powdered  cloves. 

1  "  salt. 

i  glass  brown  sherry  and  the  same  of  brandy. 

Stir  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar  very  light,  add  the  suet 
and  apples  with  the  ^spice ;  then  the  raisins,  well  dredged 
with  flour ;  next  the  flour,  and,  when  this  is  all  in,  the 
liquor;  lastly,  the  whites  beaten  very  stiff.  Bake  in  two 
buttered  moulds,  in  a  moderate  oven,  an  hour  and  a  half  at 
least.     Eat  hot,  with  sauce. 

You  may  boil  this  pudding  if  you  like. 

Apple  and  Tapioca  Pudding.  ^ 

1  teacupful  tapioca. 

6  apples — juicy  and  well-flavored  pippins — pared  and 

cored. 
1  quart  water. 
1  tea^poonfid  salt. 

Cover  the  tapioca  with  ihree  cups  of  lukewarm  water, 
and  set  it  in  a  tolerably  warm  place  to  soak  Gye  or  six 
hours,  stirring  now  and  then.  Pack  your  apples  in  a  deep 
dish,  adding  a  cup  of  lukewarm  water ;  cover  closely  and 
steam  in  a  moderate  oven  until  soft  all  through,  turning 
them  as  they  cook  at  bottom. '  If  the  dish  is  more  than  a 
third  fuU  of  liquid,  turn  some  of  it  out  before  you  pour  the 
soaked  tapioca  over  all.    Unless  your  apples  are  very  sweet. 


S88  COMMON  BEN8E. 

fill  the  centre  with  sugar  and  stick  a  clove  in  each,  just  be- 
fore you  cover  with  the  tapioca.  Indeed,  I  always  do  this. 
It  softens  the  hard  acid  of  the  fruit.  Bake,  after  the  tapio- 
ca goes  in,  one  hour. 

Eat  warm,  with  sweet  hard  sauce. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings.  ^ 

1  quart  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lard — or  half  butter  is  better. 
2  cups  of  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  '^  cream-tartar  sifted  into  the  dry  flour. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 

Chop  the  shortening  into  the  flour  after  you  have  sifted 
this  and  the  cream-tartar  together ;  put  in  the  soda  and  wet 
up  quickly — just  stifl*  enough  to  roll  into  a  paste  less  than 
half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into  squares,  and  lay  in  the  centre 
of  each  a  juicy,  tan  apple,  pared  and  cored ;  bring  the  cor- 
ners of  the  square  neatly  together  and  pinch  them  slightly. 
Lay  in  a  buttered  baking-pan,  the  joined  edges  downward, 
and  bake  to  a  fine  brown.  When  done,  brush  over  with 
beaten  egg,  and  set  back  in  the  oven  to  glaze  for  two  or 
three  minutes.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them,  and  eat  hot 
with  rich  sweet  sauce. 

I  greatly  prefer  the  above  simple  crust  for  all  kinds  of 
dumplings,  to  the  rich  paste  which  becomes  heavy  so  soon 
as  it  begins  to  cool.  It  is  also  more  quickly  and  easily  made, 
and  far  more  wholesome  than  pastry. 

Tapioca  Pudding,  t^ 

1  cup  tapioca, 

1  quart  milk. 

6  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 


BAKED  PUDDINGS.  889 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  melted* 
2  "  sugar. 

Soak  the  tapioca,  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it,  two 
hours ;  drain  off  the  water,  if  it  be  not  all  absorbed ;  soak 
two  hours  longer  in  the  milk,  which  should  be  slightly 
warmed.  When  the  tapioca  is  quite  soft,  beat  the  sugar 
and  butter  together;  add  the  yolks,  the  milk  and  tapioca, 
lastly  the  whites.  Stir  very  well,  and  bake  in  a  buttered 
dish.     Eat  warm  with  sweet  sauce. 

You  may  make  a  sago  pudding  in  the  same  way. 

COBN-STABCH'PUDDINa.  ^ 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch. 

1  quart  milk. 

4  eggs — ^whites  and  yolks  separate. 

f  cup  sugar. 

Nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonfid  butter. 

Dissolve  the  corn-starch  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  having 
heated  the  rest  of  the  milk  to  boiling,  stir  this  in  and  boil 
three  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Bemove  from  the  fire, 
and  while  still  very  hot,  put  in  the  butter.  Set  away  until 
cold;  beat  the  eggs  very  light — ^the  sugar  and  seasoning  with 
them,  and  stir  into  the  corn-starch,  beating  thoroughly  to  a 
smooth  custard.  Turn  iq;ito  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  half 
an  hour.     Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  over  it. 

CoBN-StABCH  M6BINGUE.  ^ 

4  eggs. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

f  cup  sugar. 

4  teaspoonfuls  corn-starch. 

■J-  cup  fruit-jelly  or  jam. 


390  COMMON  SENSE. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  the  corn-starchy 
which  has  previously  been  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while.  Ptemove  from 
the  fire,  and  while  still  hot,  add  gradually  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  beaten  up  with  the  sugar  and  seasoned  with  vanilla, 
lemon,  or  bitter  almond.  Pour  this  into  a  buttered  pud- 
ding-dish and  bake  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  custard 
begins  to  ^'  set.'^  Without  withdrawing  it  further  than 
the  door  of  the  oven,  spread  lightly  and  quuMy  upon  this 
a  m6ringue  of  the  whites  whipped  up  stiff  with  a  half-cup 
jelly — ^add  gradually.  Use  crab-apple  jelly,  if  bitter  almond 
has  been  put  into  the  custard ;  currant,  for  vanilla ;  straw- 
berry or  other  sweet  conserve,  if  you  season  the  custard 
with  lemon.  Bake,  covered,  for  five  minutes.  Then  re- 
move the  Hd,  and  brown  the  m6ringue  very  slightly. 

Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  thickly  over  the 

top. 

Arrow-root  Puddino 

Is  made   according  to  either  of  the  foregoing  receipts, 

substituting  arrow-root  for  corn-starch.      Farina  puddings 

also. 

Bread  I'uddino.  ^ 

1  quart  of  milk. 

2  cups  of  fine  bread-crumbs — alwaya  stale  and  dry. 
4  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
Nutmeg  to  taste.  jj 

\  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  r 

Beat  the  yolks  very  light,  and  having  soaked  the  bread- 
crumbs well  in  the  milk,  stir  these  together ;  then  the  butter 
and  seasoning,  with  the  soda ;  lastly  the  whites.  Bake  to  a 
fine  brown,  and  eat  hot  with  pudding-sauce. 

This,  if  well  mixed  and  baked,  is  quite  a  different  dish 


I 


BAKED  PUBDmaS.  391 

from  the  traditioiial  and  much-despised  bread-padding 
of  stingy  housekeepers  and  boarding-house  landladies. 
"Which,"  says  an  English  Josh.  Billings,  "nothing  can 
be  more  promiskus  than  a  boarding-house  bread-pudding.'^ 
Try  mine  instead,  putting  all  the  sugar  into  the  sauce,  and 
enough  there,  and  you  will  cease  to  sneer. 

You  may  boil  this  pudding,  if  you  like,  in  a  floured 
cloth  or  buttered  mould. 

Fruit  Bbead  Pudding.  ^ 

1  quart  milk. 
6  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

2  *'  (heaping)  sugar. 

^  lb.  rai<dns,  seeded  and  chopped. 
^  "   currants,  well  washed  and  picked  over. 
Handful  of  shred  citron,  and  1  teaspoonful  soda  dis- 
solved in  hot  water. 
2  8cant  cups  fine  bread-crumbs,  from  a  stale  loaf. 

Beat  the  yolks  light  with  the  sugar,  add  the  bread- 
crumbs when  they  have  been  well  soaked  in  the  milk,  and 
stir  until  smooth.  Next  put  in  the  fruit  well  dredged  with 
flour,  the  soda,  and  finally  the  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff 
froth. 

This  will  require  longer  and  steadier  baking  than  if  the 
fruit  were  not  in.  Cover  it  if  it  threatens  to  harden  too 
soon  on  top.  Send  to  table  hot  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was 
baked,  or  turn  out  very  carefully  upon  a  hot  plate.  Eat 
warm,  with  pudding-sauce. 

Bbead-and-Butter  Pudding. 

4  eggs. 

3  cups  milk. 


892  COMMON  SENSE. 

J  cup  sugar. 

Vanilla  or  other  extract. 
Nutmeg  to  taste. 
Bread  and  butter. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  (stale),  spread  thickly  with 
butter,  and  6]>rinkle  with  sugar.  Fit  them  neatly  and 
closely  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish  until  it  is  half  fulL 
Lay  a  small,  heavy  plate  upon  them  to  prevent  them  from' 
floating,  and  saturate  them  gradually  with  a  hot  custard 
made  of  the  milk  heated  almost  to  boiling,  then  taken  from 
the  fire,  and  the  beaten  eggs  and  sugar  stirred  in  with  the 
seasoning.  Let  the  bread  soak  in  this  fifteen  minutes  or 
BO,  adding  by  degrees  all  the  custard.  Just  before  you  put 
the  pudding  in  the  oven,  take  up  the  plate  gently.  If  the 
bread  stUl  rise  to  the  top,  keep  down  with  a  silver  fork  or 
spoon,  laid  upon  it  from  the  side  of  the  dish,  until  the  cus- 
tard thickens,  when  slip  it  out.     Eat  cold. 

Bbead-a>i>-marmalade  Pudding  t^ 

Is  made  precisely  as  above,  except  that  each  slice  is  spread 
with  marmalade  or  jam  besides  the  butter. 
Either  of  these  puddings  is  good  boiled. 

Alice's  Pudding.  ^ 

1  quart  of  milk. 

4  eggs. 

1  cup  very  fine  dry  bread-crumbs. 

^    "    strawberry  or  othgr  sweet  jam, 
i    "    sugar. 

Butter  a  pudding-dish ;  sprinkle  the  bottom  with  bread- 
crumbs; pour  over  these  half  a  cup  jam,  and  cover  this 
^  well  with  the  rest  of  the  crumbs,  wet  with  a  very  little 
milk.     Heat  the  quart  of  milk  until  near  boiling,  take  it 


BAKED  PUDDINGS.  393 

from  the  fire  and  add,  gradually,  the  beaten  yolks  and 
sugar,  stirring  in  the  beaten  whites  lightly  at  the  last. 
Heat  this  by  degrees,  stirring  constantly  until  it  begins  to 
thicken;  put  it,  spoonful  by  spoonful,  upon  the  layer  of 
bread-crumbs,  taking  care  not  to  disturb  these,  and  when 
all  is  in,  bake  until  well  ^^  set  '^  and  very  slightly  browned. 
Eat  cold.     Cream  is  a  delicious  accompaniment  to  it. 

The  Queen  of  Puddings.  ^ 

1^  cup  white  sugar. 

2  cups  fine  diy  bread-crumbs. 

5  eggs, 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Vanilla,  rose-water,  or  lemon  seasoning. 

1  quart  fresh  rich  milk,  and  one  half  cup  jelly  or  jam. 

Bub  the  butter  into  a  cup  of  sugar ;  beat  the  yolks  very 
light,  and  stir  these  together  to  a  cream.  The  bread-crumbs, 
soaked  in  milk,  come  next,  then  the  seasoning.  Bake  this 
in  a  buttered  pudding-dish — ^a  large  one  and  but  two-thirds 
full — ^until  the  custard  is  ^^  set.''  Draw  to  the  mouth  of 
the  oven,  spread  over  with  jam  or  other  nice  fruit-conserve. 
Cover  this  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whipped  whites 
and  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Shut  the  oven  and  bake  until  the 
meringue  begins  to  color. 

Eat  cold,  with  cream. 

You  may,  in  strawberry  season,  substitute  the  fresh 
fruit  for  preserves.     It  is  then  truly  delightful. 

Crackeb  Pudding.  ^ 
1  quart  milk. 

1  cup  powdered  cracker 
6  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  soda^-dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
17* 


894  COMMON  SENSE. 

Heat  the  milk  slightly,  and  pouring  it  over  the  cracker, 
let  them  stand  together  fifteen  minutes.  Stir  into  this  first 
the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  butter  and  soda ;  beat  all  smooth 
and  add  the  whipped  whites. 

Eat  hot,  with  pudding-sauce. 

DOBCHESTEB   CrACKEB  FlTTX  PUDDINa. 

2  quarts  milk. 

6  Boston  crackers — split  and  buttered. 

8  eggs — beaten  very  light. 

2  cups  sugar.     Nutmeg,  cloves,  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  lb.  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  two. 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  eggs,  and  sugar,  seasoned 
with  the  spices,  by  heating  the  milk  almost  to  boiling,  then 
taking  it  from  the  fire  and  adding  gradually  the  yolks, 
sugar,  seasoning,  and  whites.  Do  not  boil  it  again.  Butter 
a  pudding-dish;  put  a  layer  of  crackers  in  the  bottom, 
moistening  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  hot  custard.  On 
this  lay  some  of  the  raisins — a  thick  stratum ;  cover  with 
crackers — ^the  buttered  side  downward ;  moisten  with  the 
custard,  and  proceed  in  this  order  untU  your  crackers  and 
fruit  are  used  up.  Pour  in  custard  until  only  the  top  of 
the  upper  layer  is  visible,  but  not  enough  to  float  them ; 
cover  closely  and  set  in  the  cellar  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing add  the  rest  of  the  custard,  at  intervals  of  five  or  six 
minutes  between  the  cupfuls. 

Bake  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cover  with  paper 
if  it  should  seem  likely  to  harden  too  feuit. 

Eat  hot,  with  sauce. 

Cracker  Suet  Pudding.  ^ 

\  lb.  beef  suet,  freed  from  strings,  and  powdered. 
1  cup  fine  cracker-cnimbe. 


BAKED  PUDDINGS.  395 

2  tablespoonfiils  sugar. 
4  eggs. 

3  cups  milk. 
Pinch  of  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar ;  add  to  these  the  milk 
in  which  the  cracker  has  been  soaked  for  half  an  hour; 
work  into  a  smooth  paste  before  putting  in  the  suet  and 
soda.  Whip  the  whites  in  last,  and  bake  nearly,  if  not 
quite  an  hour.  Cover,  should  the  crust  form  too  rapidly. 
Eat  hot,  with  wine  sauce. 

You  may  also  steam  or  boil  this  pudding. 

Feuit  Cracker  Pudding. 

1  cup  powdered  cracker  soaked  in  one  pint  of  millr. 
^  lb.  beef  suet,  cleared  from  strings  and  powdered. 
i  ^*  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  two. 
^  ^^  currants,  washed  and  dried. 
3  oz.  almonds. 
5  eggs. 
i  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  same  of  cinnamon.  Rose- 
water  to  taste. 

Blanch  the  almonds  and  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  into  thin 
shavings.  Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar  until  light  and 
thick;  mix  in  the  cracker  and  milk ;  the  suet  and  the  fruit, 
well  dredged ;  the  spice  and  rose-water ;  then  the  whipped 
whites,  finally  the  almonds. 

Bake  in  a  buttered  mould  one  hour  and  a  half.  Turn 
out  and  eat  with  wine  sauce. 

Or, 

Boil  in  a  well-buttered  mould.     In  this  case,  blanch,  but  do 


396  CX>MMON  SENSE. 

not  cut  the  almonds,  and  do  not  stone  the  raisins.  Butter 
the  mould  so  thickly  that  you  can  stick  the  almonds  to  the 
sides  in  regular  rows,  alternately  with  rows  of  whole  i-aisins. 
Put  in  the  mixture  gently,  not  to  disturb  these ;  cover  the 
mould  and  boil  or  steam  three  hours.  Treated  in  this  way, 
it  makes  a  pretty -looking  pudding.  It  is  palatable  in  any 
shape. 

Cracker  akd  Jam  Pudding. 

3  eggs. 

^  cup  cracker-crumbs. 

•j^  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  teacup  milk. 

^  lemon — juice  and  grated  rind. 

3  tablespooniuls  jam. 

Soak  the  cracker  in  the  milk ;  rub  the  butter  and  sugar 
together,  adding  the  lemon,  and  beating  to  a  cream ;  then 
stir  in  the  beaten  yolks ;  next  the  cracker  and  milk ;  lastly, 
the  whites.  Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  the  json,  which 
should  be  pretty  stiff,  at  the  bottom.  Fill  up  with  the  mix- 
ture, and  bake  about  half  an  ho\ir. 

Eat  cold,  with  sugar  sifted  over  the  top. 

Rice  Pudding  (Plain),  t^ 

1  coffee-cup  rice. 

2  quarts  milk. 

8  tablespoonfuLs  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg — ^melted. 

Nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  rice,  and  soak  in  one  pint  of 
the  milk  two  hours.     Then  add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  th0 


BAXED  PUDDINGS.  397 

sugar,  salt,  butter,  and  spice.     Bake  two  hours,  and  eat 

cold. 

Rice  and  Tapioca  Pudding. 

^  cup  rice. 
^    "  tapioca. 
}    "   sugar. 
3  pints  milk. 
Cinnamon  to  taste. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  a  cup  of  the  milk  three  hours ;  wash 
the  rice  in  several  waters,  and  soak  in  another  cup  of  m\]\r 
as  long  as  you  do  the  tapioca.  Sweeten  the  remaining 
quart  of  milk ;  put  all  the  ingredients  together,  and  bake 
two  hours  in  a  slow  oven.     Eat  cold. 

Bice  Pudding  with  Eggs.  »{< 

1  quart  milk. 

4  eggs. 

i  cup  rice. 

f  -**    sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Handful  of  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  two. 

Soak  the  rice  in  a  pint  of  the  milk  an  hour,  then  set  the 
saucepan  containing  it  where  it  will  slowly  heat  to  a  boil. 
Boil  five  minutes ;  remove  and  let  it  cool.  Beat  the  yolks, 
add  the  sugar  and  butter,  the  rice  and  the  milk  in  which  it 
was  cooked,  with  the  pint  of  unboiled ;  the  beaten  whites, 
and  finally  the  raisins.  Grate  nutmeg  on  the  top,  and  bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  untH  the  custard  is  well  set 
and  of  a  light  brown.     Eat  cold. 

Rice-Floub  Pudding. 

2  quarts  of  milk. 
^  lb.  rice-flour. 


398  COMMON  BENBE. 

]  cup  sugar. 

6  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  small  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

2  teaspoonfuls  yanilla  or  rose-water. 

1  lemon — juice  of  the  whole,  and  half  the  grated  rind. 

Heat  the  milk  to  a  boil,  and  stir  in  the  rice-flour  wet 
to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk ;  boil  until  well 
thickened,  stirring  all  the  time.  Take  from  the  fire,  and 
while  still  hot  stir  in  the  butter,  the  yolks  beaten  light  with 
the  sugar,  the  lemon,  nutmeg,  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs. 
Mix  well,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  Just  before  you  take  it  up,  draw  to  the  mouth  of 
the  oven  and  cover  with  a  meringue  of  the  remaining  whites, 
beaten  stiff  with  two  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  and 
flavored  with  vanilla  or  rose-water.  Bake  until  the  merin- 
gue begins  to  brown.     Sift  sugar  on  the  top  and  eat  cold. 

Batter  Pudding.  ^ 

1  pint  of  milk. 

4  eggs — ^whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
,  2  even  cups  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  pinch  of  soda. 

Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Serve  in  the  pudding-diBh  as  soon  as  it  is  drawn  from  the 
oven,  and  eat  with  rich  sauce. 

Or 

Tou  may  boil  it  in  a  buttered  mould  or  floured  ba^,  flour- 
ing it  v&ry  thickly.  Boil  two  hours,  taking  care  the  boiling 
does  not  cease  for  a  moment  until  the  pudding  is  done. 


BAKED  FITDDINGS.  399 

Batter  Pudding  {No,  2). 

1  quart  milk. 

10  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

7  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

^  ^^  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  ''  cream-tartar,  sifted  into  the  flour. 

Wet  the  flour  gradually  with  the  milk  to  a  very  smooth 
paste ;  next  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  salt  and  soda ; 
lastly  the  whites,  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in  a  but- 
tered dish  for  an  hour,  and  serve  at  once.  Eat  hot,  with 
sauce. 

If  you  boil  it,  leave  plenty  of  room  to  swell  in  the  bag, 
and  boil  two  hours. 

Cottage  Pudding.  »I^ 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

2  eggs. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  cups  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  tolerably  stiff  batter, 
^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

1  '^  cream-tartar,  sifted  with  the  flour. 

1  «  salt. 

Bub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  beat  in  the  yolks, 
then  the  milk  and  soda,  the  salt,  and  the  beaten  whites,  al- 
ternately with  the  flour.  Bake  in  a  buttered'  mould ;  turn 
out  upon  a  dish ;  cut  in  slices,  and  eat  with  liquid  sauce. 

This  is  a  simple  but  very  nice  pudding. 


400  OOHHON  8EN8E. 

Qerman  Puffs.  »{« 
3  cups  flour. 

3    ««     milk. 

3  oggB — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  wry 

light 

3  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter. 
1  saltspoonfdl  salt. 

Pour  in  nine  well-buttered  cups  of  same  size  as  that 
used  for  measuring,  and  bake  to  a  fine  brown.  Eat  as  soon 
as  done,  with  sauce. 

Cup  Puddings. 
3  eggs. 

The  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sugar  and  in  flour. 

Half  their  weight  in  butter. 

2  tablespoonftds  nulk. 

\  teaspoonf ul  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Rub  the  sugar  and  butter  together;  beat  the  yolks  light 
and  add  then  the  milk  and  soda;  lastly  the  flour  and  beaten 
whites  alternately.  Fill  six  small  cups,  well  buttered,  and 
bake  twenty  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  brown.     £at  warm. 

Lemon  Pudding.  »{< 

1  cup  of  sugar. 
4  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch. 

2  lemons — juice  of  both  and  rind  of  one. 

1  pint  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  the  corn-starch, 
wet  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Boil  five  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  While  hot  mix  in  the  butter  and  set  it 
away  to  cool.  Beat  the  yolks  light,  and  add  the  sugar,  mix- 


BAXED  PUDDmOS.  401 

ing  very  tihorouglily  before  putting  in  the  lemon-juice  and 
grated  rind.  Beat  tliis  to  a  stiff  cream  and  add  gradually 
to  the  corn-starch  milk,  when  the  latter  is  cold.  Stir  all 
smooth,  put  in  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake.     Eat  cold. 

Lemon  Meringue  Pudding  {very  nice). 

* 

1  quart  milk. 

2  cups  bread-crumbs. 
4  eggs. 

i  cup  butter. 

1  cup  white  sugar. 

1  large  lemon — -juice  and- half  the  lind,  grated. 

Soak  the  bread  in  the  milk ;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  with 
the  butter  and  sugar  rubbed  to  a  cream,  also  the  lemon. 
Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  until  firm  and  slightly  brown.  Draw 
to  the  door  of  the  oven  and  cover  with  a  meringue  of  the 
whites  whipped  to  a  froth  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  a  little  lemon-juice.  Brown  very  slightly; 
sift  powdered  sugar  over  it,  and  eat  cold. 

You  may  make  an  orange  pudding  in  the  same  way. 

CocoANUT  Pudding. 

^  lb.  grated  cocoanut. 

i  cup  stale  sponge  cake,  crumbed  fine. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  large  cup  rich  milk — crjoam,  if  you  can  get  it. 
6  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla,  or  rose-water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  add  the  beaten  yolks. 
When  these  are  well  mixed,  put  in  the  cocoanut ;  stir  well 
before  adding  the  milk,  cake-crumbs,  flavoring ;  and  lastly, 
the  whites  of  three  eggs.  Whip  the  other  whites  stiff  with 
three  tablespoonfdls  of  powdered  sugar ;  flavor  with  vanilla, 


402  OOMHON  SENSE. 

and  just  before  taking  the  padding  from  the  oven,  spread 
this  m^ringiie  over  the  top,  and  close  the  oven  until  the 
icing  is  slightly  browned. 

Bake  in  all  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Orange  Marmalade  Pudding. 

1  cup  fine  bread-crumbs. 
•J-  **     sugar. 

1  **    milk  or  cream. 
4  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  butter. 

1  cup  orange  or  other  sweet  marmalade. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together ;  add  the  yolks  well 
beaten,  the  milk,  bread-crumbs,  and  the  whites  whipped  to 
a  froth.  Put  a  layer  of  this  in  the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered 
mould,  spread  thickly  with  some  pretty  stiff  marmalade — 
orange  is  nicest — then  another  layer  of  the  mixture,  and  so 
on  imtil  the  mould  is  full,  having  the  custard  mixture  at 
top.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  an  hour,  turn  out  of 
the  mould  upon  a  dish  and  serve,  with  sweetened  cream  or 
custard. 

Macaroni  Pudding.  »{4 

1  cup  macaroni  broken  into  inch  lengths. 

1  quart  milk. 
4  eggs. 

J  lemon — juice  and  grated  peel. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter, 
f  cup  sugar. 

Simmer  the  macaroni  in  half  the  milk  until  tender. 
While  hot  stir  in  the  butter,  the  yolks,  well  beaten  up  with 
the  sugar,  the  lemon,  and  lastly  the  whipped  whites.     Bake 


BAKED  PUDDINaB.  408 

in  a  buttered  mould  about  half  an  hour,  or  until  nicolj 
browned. 

Vermicelli  Pudding 

May  be  made  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt. 

Neapolitan  Pudding. — (  Veryjine.)  »J< 

1  large  cup  fine  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  milk. 

f  cup  sugar. 

1  lemon — juice  and  grated  rind. 

6  eggs. 

^  lb.  stale  sponge-cake. 

■^  <<   macaroons — almond. 

^  cup  jelly  or  jam,  and  one  small  tumbler  of  sherry 

wine. 
i  cup  milk  poured  upon  the  bread-crumbs. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

E.ub  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  put  the  beaten 
yolks  in  next ;  then  the  soaked  bread-crumbs,  the  lemon, 
juice,  and  rind,  and  beat  to  a  smooth,  light  paste  before 
adding  the  whites.  Butter  your  mould  very  well,  and  put 
in  the  bottom  a  light  layer  of  dry  bread-crumbs ;  upon  this 
one  of  macaroons,  laid  evenly  and  closely  together.  '  Wet 
these  with  wine,  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  the  mixture ;  then 
with  slices  of  sponge-cake,  spread  thickly  with  jelly  or  jam ; 
next  macaroons,  wet  with  wine,  more  custard,  sponge-cake, 
and  jam,  and  so  on  imtil  the  mould  is  full,  putting  a  layer 
of  the  mixture  at  the  top.  Cover  closely,  and  steam  in  the 
oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  then  remove  the  cover  to 
brown  the  top.  Turn  out  carefully  into  a  dish,  and  pour 
over  it  a  sauce  made  of  currant  jelly  warmed,  and  beaten 
up  with  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter  and  a  glass  of 
pale  sherry. 

A  plain  round  mould  is  best  for  the  pudding,  as  much 


404  OOMMON  SENSE. 

of  its  comeliness  depends  upon  the  manner  iu  which  the 
cake  and  macaroons  are  fitted  in. 

It  is  a  pretty  and  good  pudding,  and  will  well  repay 
the  trifling  trouble  and  care  required  to  manage  it  properly. 

It  is  also  nice  boiled  in  a  buttered  mould. 

Rhubabb  Puddikq. 

Prepare  the  stalks  as  for  pies ;  cover  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  pudding-dish  with  slices  of  bread  and  butter; 
cover  with  the  rhubarb  cut  into  short  pieces;  sprinkle 
abundantly  with  sugar ;  then  put  on  another  layer  of  bread 
and  butter,  and  so  on  until  your  dish  is  fulL  Cover  and 
steam,  while  baking,  for  half  an  hour.  Kemove  the  lid 
and  bake  ten  minutes,  or  until  browned* 

Eat  hot  with  sauce. 

GOOSEBERBY  PUDDINO. 

1  pint  ripe  or  nearly  ripe  gooseberries. 

6  or  8  slices  toasted  stale  bread. 

1  cup  milk. 

i  "     sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted. 

Stew  the  gooseberries  ten  minutes — very  slowly,  not  to 
break  them.  Gut  your  slices  of  bread  to  fit  your  pudding- 
dish,  and  toast  to  a  light  brown  on  both  sides.  (Gut  off 
all  the  crust  before  toasting.)  Dip  each  slice,  while  hot, 
in  milk,  and  spread  with  the  melted  butter.  Gover  the 
bottom  of  the  dish  with  them;  put  next  a  layer  of  the 
gooseberries,  sprinkled  thickly  with  sugar;  more  toast, 
more  berries,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Gover 
closely  and  steam  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  or  twenty* 
five  minutes.  Turn  out  upon  a  hot  dish  and  pour  over  it 
a  good  pudding-sauce. 


BAKED  PUDDINGB.  405 

This  is  considered  a  wholesome  breakfast  dish,  and  is 
certainly  good.  In  this  case  omit  the  sauce,  sift  powdered 
sugar  over  the  top,  and  eat  with  the  same. 

Newabk  Pudding. 

1  cup  fine  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  a  pint  of  the  milk. 

1  quart  of  milk. 
5  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  rice-flour. 

^  lb.  raisins  seeded,  cut  in  two,  and  dredged  with  flour. 
Vanilla  or  bitter  almond  extract. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  and  a  half-teaspoonful 
soda. 

Beat  the  yolks  light ;  add  the  soaked  bread-crumbs  and 
milk ;  stir  to  a  smootii  batter,  put  in  the  rice-flour,  wet  up 
first  with  cold  milk ;  the  reserved  pint  of  milk,  the  season- 
ing, butter,  the  fruit,  lastly  the  whites  whipped  stifll  Bake 
an  hour  in  a  buttered  mould;  turn  out  and  pour  sauce 
over  it,  serving  hard  sauce  also  with  it. 

Or, 

You  may  boil  the  mixture  two  hours  in  a  floured  cloth  or 
buttered  mould. 

Baked  Plum  Pudding. 

li  lb.  of  flour. 

1  lb.  raisins  seeded,  cut  in  two,  and  dredged  with  flour. 

i  lb.  suet,  freed  from  strings  and  powdered. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  oz.  citron,  shred  fine. 

6  eggs — whites  and  yoiks  beaten  separately. 
Nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and  cloves — one  teaspoonful  each. 
Milk  to  make  a  thick  batter  of  the  flour.     Begin  with 
two  cups,  and  add  more  if  necessary. 


406  COMMON  8EK6B. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together ;  add  the  suet  and 
spice,  then  the  flour,  moistening  the  mixture  gradually 
with  milk  until  you  can  move  the  spoon  in  it.  Dredge 
the  fruit  and  put  in  by  degrees ;  finally,  stir  in  the  beaten 
whites.  Beat  all  very  hard  and  long  before  baking  in  a 
buttered  mould.  It  will  require  cU  least  an  hour  and  a 
half  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Turn  out,  and  eat  with  rich  sweet  sauce. 

Bellb^s  Dumplings. 

1  qvLBxt  prepared  flour. 

2^  tablespoonfuls  lard  and  butter  mixed. 

2  cups  of  milk,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Boll  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  oblong 
pieces,  rounded  at  the  comers ;  put  a  great  spoonfiil  damson, 
cherry,  or  other  tart  preserve  in  the  middle  and  roll  into  a 
dumpling.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  brush  over 
with  beaten  egg  whUe  hot,  set  back  in  the  oven  three  min- 
utes to  glaze. 

Eat  hot  with  brandy  or  wine  sauce. 

Or, 

Tou  may  make  a  roll-pudding  of  it  by  rolling  out  the  paste 
into  an  oblong  sheet,  spreading  thickly  with  the  preserves, 
folding  it  up  as  one  would  a  travelling-shawl  to  be  put  into 
a  strap,  pinching  the  ends  together  that  the  juice  may  not 
escape,  and  boiling  in  a  floured  cloth  fitted  to  the  shape  of 
the  "  roley-poley."     Boil  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Boiled  Puddings. 

You  can  boil  puddings  in  a  bowl,  a  mould,  or  a  cloth. 
The  mould  should  have  a  closely-fitting  top  and  be  buttered 
well — top  and  all — before  the  batter  or  dough  is  put  in. 


BOILED  PUDDINGS.  407 

These  moulds  are  usually  made  with  hasps  or  other  fasten- 
ing. In  lack  of  this,  jou  had  better  tie  down  the  cover 
securely.  I  once  boiled  a  pudding  in  a  tin  pail,  the  top  of 
which  I  made  more  secure  by  fitting  it  over  a  cloth  floured 
on  the  inside,  lest  the  pudding  should  stick.  The  experi- 
ment succeeded  admirably,  and  I  commend  the  suggestion 
to  those  who  find,  after  the  pudding  is  mixed,  that  their 
mould  leaks,  or  the  bowl  that  did  duty  as  a  substitute  has 
been  broken,  and  nothing  said  to  ^Hhe  mistress"  about  it. 
If  you  use  a  bowl,  butter  it,  and  tie  a  floured  cloth  tightly 
over  the  top.  If  a  cloth,  have  it  clean  and  sweet,  and  flour 
bountifuUy  on  the  inside.  In  all,  leave  room  for  batter, 
bread,  rice,  and  cracker  puddings  to  swell.  Tie  the  string 
very  tightly  about  the  mouth  of  the  bag,  which  must  be 
made  wiih  felled  seams  at  sides  and  bottom,  the  better  to 
exclude  the  water. 

The  water  must  be  boiling  when  the  pudding  goes  m, 
and  not  stop  boiling  for  one  instant  until  it  is  done.  If  it 
is  in  a  bag,  this  must  be  turned  several  times,  under  water ^ 
to  prevent  sticking  or  scorching  to  the  sides  of  the  pot. 
The  bag  must  also  be  entirely  covered,  while  the  water 
should  not  quite  reach  to  the  top  of  a  mould.  If  you  use 
a  basin,  dip  the  cloth  in  boiling  water  before  dredging  with 
flour  on  the  inside. 

When  the  time  is  up,  take  mould,  basin,  or  cloth  from 
the  boiling  pot,  and  plunge  instcmdy  into  cold  water ;  then, 
turn  out  without  the  loss  of  a  second.  This  will  prevent 
sticking,  and  leave  a  clearer  impression  of  the  mould  upon 
the  contents. 

Boiled  puddings  should  be  served  as  soon  as  they  are 
done,  as  they  soon  become  heavy. 

Many  of  the  baked  puddings  I  have  described  are  quite 
as  good  boiled.  As  a  safe  rule,  double  ike  time  of  hakvng^ 
if  you  hoUm 


408  OOHHON  8EN8B. 

Berbt  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

i  teaapoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

^  **  cream-tartar,  sifted  through  a  cup  of  flour, 

and  added  to  enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter. 

1  pint  blackberries,  raspberries,  currants,  or  huckle- 
berries, well  dredged  with  flour — stirred  in  at  the  last. 

Boil  one  hour  in  buttered  mould. 

Huckleberry  Pudding.  »{< 

1  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  quart  flour — or  enough  for  thick  batter. 

1  gill  baker's  yeast. 

1  saltspoonful  yeast. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Nearly  a  quart  of  berries— well  dredged  with  flour. 

Make  a  batter  of  eggs,  milk,  flour,  yeast,  salt^  and  soda, 
and  set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  about  four  hours.  When 
you  are  ready  to  boil  it,  stir  in  the  dredged  fruit  quickly 
and  lightly.  Boil  in  a  buttered  mould  or  a  floured  doth 
for  two  hours. 

This  will  be  found  lighter  and  more  wholesome  than 
boiled  pastry. 

Eat  hot  with  sweet  sauce. 

Fruit  Valise  Pudding. 
1  quart  flour. 
I  tablespoonful  lard,  and  same  of  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  "  cream-tartar — sifted  through  the  flour. 


BOILED   PUDDINGS.  409 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

2  cups  milk,  or   enough  to  make  the  flour  into  sofb 

dough. 
1  quart  berries,  chopped  apples,  sliced  peaches,  or  other 
fruit;  jam,  preserves,  canned  fruit,  or  marmalade  may 
be  substituted  for  the  berries. 

Roll  out  the  crust  less  than  half  an  inch  thick — ^indeed, 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  will  do — into  an  oblong  sheet.  Cover 
thickly  with  the  fruit  and  ,  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Begin  at 
one  end,  and  roll  it  up  closely,  the  fruit  inside.  In  putting 
this  in,  leave  a  narrow  margin  at  the  other  end  of  the  roll, 
which  should  be  folded  down  closely  like  the  flap  of  a  pocket- 
book.  Pinch  the  ends  of  the  folded  roll  together,  to  prevent 
the  escape  of  the  fruit,  and  baste  up  in  a  bag,  the  same  size 
and  shape  as  the  **  valise."  Flour  the  bag  well  before  put- 
ting in  the  pudding,  having  previously  dipped  it — the  cloth 
— ^into  hot  water,  and  wring  it  out. 

Boil  an  hour  and  a  half.  Serve  hot  with  sauce,  and  cut 
crosswise  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick. 

Boiled  Apple  Dumplings.  {No,  1.)  "J^ 

Make  a  paste  according  to  the  above  receipt;  cut  in 
squares,  and  put  in  the  centre  of  each  an  apple,  pared  and 
cored.  Bring  the  comers  together  ;  enclose  each  dumpling 
in  a  small  square  cloth,  tied  up  bag-wise,  leaving  room  to 
swell.  Each  cloth  should  be  dipped  in  hot  water,  wrung 
out  and  floured  on  the  inside  before  the  apple  is  put  in. 

Boil  one  hour. 

Apple  Dumplings.  {No,  2.)  »{< 

1  quart  flour. 
^  lb.  suet. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
18 


410  OOHMON  8SN8E. 

^  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  ^'  cream-tartar  sifted  in  the  flour. 

Cold  water  enough  to  make  into  a  tolerably  stiff  paste. 

Roll  out,  cut  into  squares,  put  in  the  middle  of  each  a 
fine,  juicy  apple,  pared  and  cored.  Fill  the  hole  left  by 
the  core  with  marmalade,  or  with  sugar,  wet  with  lemon- 
juice.  Sticky  clove  in  the  sugar.  Close  the  paste,  tie  up 
in  the  cloths,  when  you  have  wet  them  with  hot  water  and 
floured  them,  and  boil  one  hour. 

•  A  pleasing  idea  for  dumpling  cloths  is  to  crochet  them 
in  a  closo  stitch  with  stout  tidy  cotton.  They  are  easily 
done,  wash  and  wear  well,  and  leave  a  very  pretty  pattern 
upon  the  paste  when  they  are  opened.  Crochet  them  round, 
with  a  cord  for  drawing  run  into  the  outer  edge. 

Boiled  Fruit  Pudding. 

Prepare  a  paste  in  accordance  with  either  of  the  fore- 
going receipts,  but  roll  into  one  sheet.  Lay  apples,  peaches, 
or  berries  in  the  centre,  paring  and  slicing  the  fruit ;  sprin- 
kle with  sugar,  and  close  the  paste  over  them  as  you  would 
a  dumpling.  Dip  a  stout  cloth  in  hot  water,  flour  the  in- 
side, put  in  the  pudding,  tie  tightly,  and  boil  two  hours  and 
a  half. 

Eat  hot  with  sauce. 

Bice  Duhplikgb. 

}-  lb.  rice  boiled  without  stirring,  until  soft,  and  at  the 

top  dry. 
12  pippins,  pared  and  cored. 
Strawberry  marmalade  or  crab-apple  jelly. 

Let  the  rice  cool  upon  a  sieve  or  coarse  cloth,  that  it 
may  dry  at  the  same  time.  Dip  your  dumpling  cloths  in  hot 
water ;  wring  them  out  and  flour  well  inside.     Put  a  handfid 


BOILED  PUDDINGS.  411 

of  the  cold  rice  upon  each,  spreading  it  out  into  a  smooth  sheet. 

Lay  in  the  centre  an  apple ;  fill  the  hole  left  by  the  core  with 

marmalade  or  jelly ;  draw  up  the  cloth  carefully  to  enclose 

the  apple  with  a  coating  of  rice ;  tie,  and  boil  one  hour. 

Turn  out  with  care  ;  pour  sweet  sauce  or  rich  sweetened 

cream  over  them,  and  send  around  more  in  a  boat  with 

them. 

Suet  Dumplings  (plain). 

2  cups  fine  bread-crumbs,  soaked  in  a  very  little  milk. 
1  cup  beef  suet,  freed  from  strings,  and  powdered. 
4   eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separated,  and  beaten  very 

light. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-tartar,  sifted  into  the  flour. 
■J-  "  soda  dis.solved  in  boiling  water. 

1  «  salt. 

Enough  milk  to  mix  into  a  stiff  paste. 

Make  into  large  balls  with  floured  hands;  put  into 
dumpling  cloths  dipped  into  hot  water  and  floured  inside ; 
leave  room  to  swell,  and  tie  the  strings  very  tightly. 

Boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour.     Serve  hot  with  wine 

sauce. 

Fruit  Suet  Dumplings 

Are   made  as  above,  with  the  addition  of  ^  lb.    raisins, 
seeded,  chopped,  and  dredged  with  flour,  and  ^  lb.  currants, 
washed,  dried,  and  dredged. 
Boil  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 

Boiled  Indian  Meal  Pudding. 

1  quart  milk. 

1      ''     Indian  meal. 

3  eggs. 

3  heaping  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  1  teaspoonful  salt.  ,  ^;  ^ 

J  lb,  beef  suet,  chopped  into  powder. 


i  i 


>..* 


112  COMMON   SENSE. 

Scald  the  milk,  and  while  boiling  hot  stir  in  the  meal 
and  suet  with  the  salt.  When  cold  add  the  jolks,  beaten 
light  with  the  sugar,  then  the  whites.  Dip  your  bag  in  hot 
water,  flonr  it,  and  fill  half  full  with  the  mixture,  as  it  will 
swell  very  much.     Boil  five  hours. 

Eat  very  hot  with  butter  and  sugar. 

Cabinet  Puddiko. 
^  lb.  flour. 

I  «  butter. 

5  eggs. 

1^  lb.  sugar. 

^     <<   raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  three  pieces  each. 

^     '^   currants,  washed  and  dried. 

^  cup  cream  or  milk. 

^  lemon — juice  and  rind  grated. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar ;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then 
the  milk  and  the  flour,  alternately  with  the  whites.  Lastly, 
stir  in  the  fruit,  well  dredged  with  flour,  turn  into  a  but- 
tered mould,  and  boil  two  hours  and  a  half  at  least. 

Serve  hot,  with  cabinet  pudding  sauce  over  it.  {See 
Sweet  Sauces,) 

Eve's  Pudding. 

1  heaping  cup  of  fine  dry  bread-crumbs. 
^  lb.  pared  and  chopped  apples. 
^  ^^    raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 
6  oz.  currants,  washed  and  dried. 
6  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  same  of  allspice. 
1  glass  brandy. 

1  cup  sugar,  and  1  teaspoonful  salt. 
^  lb.  suet,  chopped  to  powder. 
TVork  the  sugar  into  the  beaten  yolks ;  then  the  suet 
and  crumbs,  with  the  chopped  apples ;  next  the  brandy 


BOILED  PUDDINGS.  413 

and  spice,  then  the  whipped  whites ;  lastly  the  fruit,  well 
dredged  with  flour. 

Boil  in  a  buttered  bowl  or  mould  three  hours.     Eat  hot 
with  sauce. 

The  Queen  of  Plum  Puddings. 

1  lb.  butter. 

1  «    of  suet,  freed  from  strings  and  chopped  fine. 

1  "    of  sugar. 
2i  lbs.  of  flour. 

2  '^     of  raisins,  seeded,  chopped,  and  dredged  with 
flour. 

2  lbs.  of  currants,  picked  over  carefully  after  they  are 

washed. 
^  lb.  of  citron,  shred  fine. 
12  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
1  pint  of  milk. 

1  cup  of  brandy. 
^  oz.  of  cloves. 

^  "   of  mace. 

2  grated  nutmegs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar ;  beat  in  the  yolks  when 
you  have  whipped  them  smooth  and  light ;  next  put  in  the 
milk ;  then  the  flour,  alternately  with  the  beaten  whites ; 
then  the  brandy  and  spice ;  lastly  the  fruit,  well  dredged 
with  flour.  Mix  all  thoroughly ;  wring  out  your  pudding- 
cloth  in  hot  water ;  flour  well  inside,  pour  in  the  mixture, 
and  boil  five  hours. 

I  can  confidently  recommend  this  as  the  best  plum  pud- 
ding I  have  ever  tasted,  even  when  the  friend  at  whose 
table  I  had  first  the  pleasure  of  eating  it  imitated  the 
example  of  **  good  King  Arthur's  "  economical  spouse,  and 
what  we  "  couldn't  eat  that  night,"  "  next  da^  fried,"  by 
heating  a  little  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  laying  in  slices 


414  COMMON  BENSS. 

of  her  pudding,  wanned  them  into  almost  their  original 
excellence.  It  will  keep  a  long  time — in  a  Unseed  closet  or 
safe. 

Orangk  Roley-Poley. 

Make  a  light  paste  as  for  apple  dumplings  or  valise 
pudding,  roll  in  an  oblong  sheet,  and  lay  oranges  (sweet 
ones),  peeled,  sliced,  and  seeded,  thickly  all  over  it.  Sprin- 
kle with  white  sugar ;  scatter  a  teaspoonful  or  two  of  the 
grated  yellow  peel  over  all  and  roll  up  closely,  folding 
down  the  end  to  secure  the  syrup.  Boil  in  a  pudding- 
cloth  one  hour  and  a  half. 

Eat  with  lemon  sauce. 

Cherry  or  Currant  Pyramid. 

Wash  and  stone  the  cherries,  or  pick  the  currants  from 
their  stems.  Make  some  good  light  crust,  roll  it  out  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  for  the  bottom  a  round 
piece  about  the  size  of  a  tearplate.  You  can  use  the  top 
of  a  tin  pail  for  a  cutter.  Spread  your  fruit  upon  this, 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  leaving  a  half  inch  margin  all 
around.  Koll  out  a  second  sheet  an  inch  less  in  diameter 
than  the  first,  lay  it  carefully  upon  the  fruit,  and  turn  up 
the  margin  of  the  lower  piece  over  the  edge  of  this.  Spread 
this,  in  turn,  with  fruit  and  sugar,  and  cover  with  a  third 
and  lessening  round;  proceeding  in  this  order  until  the 
sixth  and  topmost  cover  is  not  more  than  three  inches 
across.  Have  ready  a  conical  cap  of  stout  muslin  adapted 
to  the  proportions  and  dimensions  of  your  pile ;  dip  it  in 
boiling  water,  flour  inside,  and  draw  gently  over  all.  It 
should  be  large  enough  to  meet  and  tie  xmder  the  base 
without  cramping  the  pyramid. 

Boil  two  hours,  and  eat  with  sweet  sauce. 


FBITTEB8,   TASCAKEBj  ETO.  415 

FRITTERS,  PANCAKES,  Etc. 

Have  plenty  of  nice  sweet  lard  in  which  to  fry  fritters, 
and  test  the  heat  by  dropping  in  a  teaspoonful  before  you 
risk  more.  If  right,  the  batter  will  rise  quickly  to  the  sur- 
face in  a  puff-ball,  spluttering  and  dancing,  and  will  speedily 
assume  a  rich  golden  brown.  Take  up,  as  soon  as  done, 
with  a  skimmer,  shaking  it  to  dislodge  any  drops  of  lard 
that  may  adhere ;  pile  in  a  hot  dish,  sift  sugar  over  them, 
and  send  instantly  to  the  table.  Fry  as  many  at  a  time  as 
the  kettle  will  hold,  and  send  in  hot  fresh  ones  while  the 
batter  lasts.  A  round-bottomed  saucepan  or  kettle,  rather 
wide  at  top,  is  best  for  frying  them. 

Use  a  frying-pan  for  pancakes ;  heat  it ;  put  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  or  two  of  lard  and  run  it  quickly  over  the  bottom; 
then  pour  in  a  large  ladleful  of  batter — enough  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  with  a  thin  sheet.  Turn  with  a  tin 
spatula,  very  carefully,  to  avoid  tearing  it.  The  frying-pan 
should  be  a  small  one.  Have  ready  a  hot  dish ;  turn  out 
the  pancake  upon  it,  cover  with  powdered  sugar,  and  roll 
up  dexterously  like  a  sheet  of  paper.  Send  half  a  dozen  to 
table  at  once,  keeping  them  hot  by  setting  the  dish  in  the 
oven  until  enough  are  baked. 

I  am  thus  explicit  in  these  general  instructions  to  save 
myself  the  trouble,  and  the  reader  the  tedium,  of  a  repetition 
under  each  receipt. 

In  olden  times  it  was  a  boast  of  notable  cooks  that  they 
could  toss  a  pancake  from  the  pan  out  of  the  top  of  the 
chimney  with  such  accuracy  of  calculation,  that  it  would 
turn  itself  on  the  way  back,  and  settle  in  its  place,  ready, 
like  St.  Lawrence,  to  have  the  other  side  fried.  JT  never 
saw  a  pancake  tossed,  although  in  my  childish  days  I  saw 
hundreds  fried  by  the  honorable  tribe — ^now  so  fast  passing 
away—of  Old  Yirginia  cooks.     I  do  not  advise  this  acro< 


416  OOMMON  SENSE. 

batic  system  of  culinary  exploit,  especially  for  beginners. 
Indeed,  I  doubt  if  the  pancakes  would  be  found  equal  to  the 
journey  in  these  days  of  tight  chimney-throats  and  cooking 
stoves.  They  must  be  out  of  practice  as  well  as  their  manu- 
facturers.    Be  careful  not  to  have  too  much  grease  in  the 

pan. 

Fritters  (iNTo.  1).  »J« 

1  pint  flour. 

4  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  pint  boiliAg  water. 

Stir  the  flour  into  the  water  by  degrees,  and  stir  until 
it  has  boiled  three  minutes.  Let  it  get  almost  cold,  when 
beat  in  the  yolks,  then  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  must 
be  previously  whipped  stiff. 

Fritters  {No.  2). 
6  eggs. 

1  quart  milk. 

3  cups  flour* 

\  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-tartar  sifted  into  the  flour. 

A  little  salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately,  of  course ;  stii*  the 
milk  in  with  the  former,  then  the  soda,  the  flour,  and  salt, 
finally  the  whites.  Beat  very  hard,  and  fry  <U  oncCy  in 
great  ladlefuls. 

Apple  Fritters.  »J« 

A  batter  according  to  the  preceding  receipt. 

6  large  juicy  apples,  pared  and  quartered. 

1  glass  brandy. 

1  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

1  teaKpooiiful  cinnamon. 


FETITKES,   PANCAXES,   ETC.  417 

Put  the  brandy,  a  very  little  waterj  the  sugar,  and  the 
spice  into  a  covered  saucepan  with  the  apples.  Stir  gently 
until  half  done ;  drain  off  the  liquor,  every  drop ;  mince 
the  apple  when  cold,  and  stir  into  the  batter. 

Or, 

You  may  parboil  the  apples  in  clear  water,  with  a  very 
little  sugar,  and  proceed  as  just  directed. 

Jelly  Feitters. 

1  scant  cup  sponge-cake  crumbs — very  fine  and  diy. 

1  cup  boiling  milk. 
4  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  corn-starch,  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  currant  or  cranberry  jelly. 

Soak  the  cake-crumbs  in  the  boiling  milk,  and  stir  in 
the  corn-starch.  Heat  all  together  to  a  boil,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Beat  the  yolks  light,  and  add  to  this  as  it  cools, 
with  the  sugar.  Whip  in  the  jelly,  a  little  at  a  time,  and 
put  in  the  whites — beaten  to  a  stiff  froth — at  the  last. 

Fry  immediately. 

Bread  Fritters. 

1  quart  milk — boiling  hot. 

2  cups  fine  bread  crumbs  (aerated  bread  is  best). 

3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
1  tablespoonful  butter — ^melted. 

1  saltspoonful  salt,  and  the  same  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
hot  water. 

Soak  the  bread  in  the  boiling  milk  ten  minutes,  in  a 
covered  bowl.     Beat  to  a  smooth  paste ;  add  the  whipped 

18* 


418  COMMON  SEETSE. 

jolks,  the  butter,  salt,  soda,  and  finally  the  whites,  whipped 
stiff. 

Queen's  Toast. 

Fry  slices  of  stale  baker's  bread — ^aerated,  if  you  can  get 
it — in  boiling  lard  to  a  fine  brown.  Dip  each  slice  quickly 
in  boiling  water  to  remove  the  grease.  Sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  pile  upon  a  hot  plate.  Before  toasting, 
cut  out  the  slices  with  a  round  cake-cutter,  taking  ofif  all  the 
crust.  They  look  better  when  piled  up.  Pour  sweet  wine 
sauce  over  them  when  hot,  and  serve  at  once. 

Jelly-Cake  Fritters  (very  nice).  •Jm 

Some  stale  sponge,  or  plain  cup  cake,  cut  into  rounds 
with  a  cake-cutter. 
Hot  lard. 

Strawberry  or  other  jam,  or  jelly. 
A  little  boiling  nulk. 

Cut  the  cake  carefully  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Dip  each 
slice  for  a  second  in  a  bowl  of  boiling  milk,  draining  this 
off  on  the  side  of  the  vessel ;  lay  on  a  hot  dish  and  spread 
thickly  with  strawberry  jam,  peach  jelly,  or  other  delicate 
conserve.  Pile  them  neatly  and  send  around  hot,  with 
cream  to  pour  over  them. 

This  is  a  nice  way  of  using  up  stale  cake,  and  if  lightly 
prepared,  the  dessert  is  almost  equal  to  Neapolitan  pudding. 

Pancakes. 
1  pint  of  flour. 

G  eggs. 

1  saltspoonful  salt,  and   same  of  soda   dissolved  in 

vinegar. 

Milk  to  make  a  tfiin  batter.  Begin  with  two  cups  and 
add  until  the  batter  is  of  the  right  consistency.     Beat  the 


SWEET,  OB  PUDDING  SATT0E8.  419 

yolks  light,  add  the  salt,  soda,  and  two  ciips  of  milk,  theai 
the  flour  and  beaten  whites  alternately,  and  thin  with  more 
milk. 

Jelly  ob  Jam  Pancakes. 

A  batter  as  above.  When  the  pancakes  are  fried,  lay 
upon  a  hot  plate,  spread  quickly  with  nice  jam  or  jelly,  and 
roll  up  neatly  upon  the  preserves.  Sprinkle  lightly  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  send  around  with  wine  sauce  or  sweet- 
ened cream. 


SWEET,  OR  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

Hard  Sauce.  »{« 

Stir  to  a  cream  1  cup  of  butter. 

3  cups  of  powdered  sugar. 
When  light,  beat  in  f  teacup  of  wine. 

Juice  of  a  lemon. 
2  teaspoonfuls  nutmeg. 

Beat  long  and  hard  until  several  shades  lighter  in  color 
than  at  first  and  creamy  in  consistency.  Smooth  into  shape 
with  a  broad  knife  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  stamp  with  a 
wooden  mould,  first  scalded  and  then  dipped  in  cold  water. 
Set  upon  the  ice  until  the  pudding  is  served. 

Bee-hive  Sauce.  »{« 

Mix  a  hard  sauce  according  to  the  previous  receipt,  and 
when  light,  set  aside  three  or  four  tablespoonf uls  in  a  plate. 
To  the  larger  quantity  left  add  gradually,  cheiTy,  currant, 
or  cranberry  juice  enough  to  color  it  a  good  pink.  Red 
jelly  will  do  if  berries  are  out  of  season.  Beat  the  color- 
ing matter  in  thoroughly,  and  shape  into  a  conical  mound. 
Roll  half  a  sheet  of  note-paper  into  a  long,  narrow  funnel. 


420  COMMON  SENSE. 

tie  a  string  about  it  to  keep  it  in  shape,  and  fill  with  the 
uncolored  sauce.  Squeeze  it  out  gently  through  the  small 
end  in  a  ridge,  beginning  at  the  base  of  the  cone  and  wind- 
ing about  it  to  the  top,  filling  your  funnel  as  it  is  emptied, 
and  guiding  ib  carefully.  The  effect  of  the  alternate  white- 
and-pink  lines  is  very  pretty. 

If  the  pudding  is  one  to  which  chocolate  would  be  a 
pleasant  addition,  color  with  grated  chocolate,  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  of  the  wine,  and  ridge  with  white.  Set 
upon  the  ice  or  upon  the  cellar-floor  until  firm.  Stick  a 
colored  almond  or  other  ornamental  candy  upon  the  top. 

This  bee-hive  is  easily  made,  and  will  set  off  even  a  plain 
pudding  handsomely. 

BRAia)Y  Sauce  (hard).  •{« 

■J-  cup  butter. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar. 

1  wineglass  brandy. 

1  teaspoonful  mixed  cinnamon  and  mace. 

"Warm  the  butter  very  slightly,  work  in  the  sugar,  and, 
when  this  is  light,  the  brandy  and  spice.  Beat  hard — shape 
into  a  mould  and  set  in  a  cold  place  until  wanted. 

"White  "Wine  Sauce  {liquid),  »J« 

^  cup  butter. 

2^  cups  powdered  sugar. 

2  wineglasses  pale  sherry  or  white  wine. 
^  cup  boiling  water. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Work  the  butter  into  the  sugar,  moistening,  as  you  go 
on,  with  boiling  water.  Beat  long  and  hard  until  your 
bowl  is  nearly  full  of  a  creamy  mixture.  Then  add  gradu- 
ally the  wine  and  nutmeg,  still  beating  hard.     Turn  into  a 


SWEET,   OB  PUDDINO  SAUCES.  421 

tin  pail,  set  within  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  stir 
frequently  until  the  sauce  is  hot,  but  not  until  it  boUs. 
Take  the  saucepan  from  the  £re  and  leave  the  pail  stand- 
ing in  the  water,  stirring  the  contents  now  and  then,  until 
you  are  ready  to  serve  the  pudding. 

If  rightly  made,  this  sauce  will  be  nearly  as  white  as 

milk. 

Lemon  Sauce.  •{« 

1  large  cup  of  sugar. 

Nearly  half  a  cup  of  butter. 

legg. 

1  lemon — ^all  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

3  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  beat  in  the  egg  whipped 
b'ght ;  the  lemon  and  nutmeg.  Beat  hard  ten  minutes,  and 
add,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  the  boiling  water.  Put  in  a  tin 
pail  and  set  within  the  uncovered  top  of  the  tearkettle, 
which  you  must  keep  boiling  until  the  steam  heats  the 
sauce  very  hot,  but  not  to  boiling.     Stir  constantly. 

Milk  Pudding  Saucb. 

2  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 

1  large  cup  of  sugar. 

5  tablespoonfuls  boiling  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  arrow-root  or  corn-starch,  wet  with  cold 

milk. 
1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  or  mace. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Hub  the  butter  into  the  sugar,  add  the  beaten  eggs,  and 
work  all  to  a  creamy  froth.  Wet  the  corn-starch  and  put 
in  next  with  the  spice — ^finally,  pour  in  by  the  spoonful  the 
boiling  milk,  betttdng  well  all  the  time.  '  Set  within  a  sauce- 


422  COMMON  SENSE. 

pan  of  boiling  water  five  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while,  but 
do  not  let  the  sauce  boil. 

This  is  a  good  sauce  for  bread  and  other  simple  pud- 
dings. 

Cabinet  Pudding  Sauce. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  whipped  very  light. 

1  lemon — juice  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

1  good  glass  of  wine. 

1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Bub  the  butter  into  the  sugar,  add  the  yolks,  lemon,  and 
spice.  Beat  ten  minutes  and  put  in  the  wine,  still  stirring 
hard.  Set  within  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  beat 
while  it  heats,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 

Pour  over  the  pudding. 

Fkuit  Pudding  Sauce.  •!• 

-J  cup  butter. 

2^  cups  sugar. 

1  dessert  spoonful  corn-starch  wet  in  a  litlte  cold  milk. 

1  lemon — juice  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

1  glass  of  wine. 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  well ;  pour  the  corn-starch 
into  the  boiling  water  and  stir  over  a  clear  fire  until  it  is 
well  thickened ;  put  all  together  in  a  bowl  and  beat  five 
minutes  before  returning  to  the  saucepan.  Heat  once,  al- 
most to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  wine,  and  serve. 

CusTA&D  Sauce. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

2  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 


SWEET,   OB  PUDDING  SAUCES.  423 

i  wineglass  of  brandy. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,  stirred  into  the  eggs. 

Nutmeg  to  taste. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  add  by  degrees  to  the 
beaten  eggs  and  sugar;  put  in  the  nutmeg,  and  set  within  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Take  it  off  and  add  the  brandy  gradually.  Set,  until  it  is 
wanted,  within  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 

Pour  oyer  the  pudding  when  it  comes  from  the  mould. 

Jelly  Sauce.  »J« 

^  cup  currant  jelly. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted. 

^  dessert  spoonful  arrowroot  or  corn-starch ;  wet  with 

cold  water. 
1  glass  pale  sherry. 
3  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water. 

Stir  the  arrowroot  into  the  boiling  water  and  heat,  stir- 
ring  all  the  time,  until  it  thickens ;  add  the  butter,  and  set 
aside  until  almost  cool,  when  beat  in,  spoonful  by  spoonful, 
the  jelly  to  a  smooth  pink  paste.  Pour  in  the  wine,  stir 
hard,  and  heat  in  a  tin  vessel,  set  within  another  of  boiling 
water,  until  very  hot. 

Pour  over  and  around  Neapolitan,  bread-and-marma- 
lade  puddings,  cake-fritters,  and  Queen's  toast. 

Sweetened  Cream  (cold). 

1  pint  of  cream. 

4  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg. 

1  '*  vanilla. 


424  COMMON  8ENBX. 

Mix  all  well  together,  stirring  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Eat  with  jam  puddings,  queen  of  all  puddings, 
Alice's  pudding,  and  peach  roley-poley. 

Cream  Sauce  (hot), 

1  pint  cream. 

4  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 

Extiuct  of  vanilla  or  bitter  almonds,  one  teaspoonful. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Heat  the  cream  slowly  in  a  vessel  set  in  a  saucepan  of 
boiling  water,  stirring  often.  When  scalding,  but  not  boil- 
ing hot,  remove  it  from  the  fire,  put  in  the  sugar  and  nut- 
meg ;  stir  three  or  four  minutes  and  add  the  whites.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  flavor,  setting  the  bowl  containing  it  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  imtil  the  pudding  is  served,  stirring  now 
and  then. 

Jelly  Sauce  {N^o.  2).  4* 

•J  cup  cuirant  jelly. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

1  lemon — juice  and  half  the  grated  peel. 
^  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

2  glasses  wine,  and  a  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar. 

Heat  the  butter  a  little  more  than  blood- waim ;  beat 
the  jelly  to  a  smooth  batter  and  add  gradually  the  butter, 
the  lemon,  and  nutmeg.  Warm  almost  to  a  boil,  stirring 
all  the  while ;  beat  hard,  put  in  the  sugar,  lastly  the  wine. 
Set  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water,  stirring  now  and  then,  until  it 
is  wanted.  Keep  it  covered  to  hinder  the  escape  of  the 
wine  flavor.     Stir  well  before  pouring  out. 

This  is  a  very  fine  jelly,  particularly  for  cabinet  and 
Neapolitan  puddings. 


CUSTASBS,  BLANCMANGES,   ETO.  425 

Custards,  Blaxc-Mange,  Jellies,  and  Creams. 

A  good  rule  for  custard  is  five  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  each  eggy  although  a  good 
plain  custard  can  be  made  with  an  e^  for  each  cup  of  milk 
'and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  the  quart.  Creams  and 
custards  that  are  to  be  frozen  must  have  at  least  one-third 
more  sugar  than  those  which  are  not  to  undergo  this 
process. 

In  heating  the  milk  for  custard,  do  not  let  it  quite  boil 
before  adding  the  yolks.  My  plan,  which  has  proved  a  safe 
one  thus  far,  is  to  take  the  scaldijig  milk  from  the  fire,  and 
instead  of  pouring  the  beaten  eggs  into  it,  to  put  a  spoonful 
or  two  of  the  milk  to  them^  beating  well  all  the  while,  add- 
ing more  and  more  milk  as  I  mix,  until  there  is  no  longer 
danger  of  sudden  curdling.  Then,  return  all  to  the  fire 
and  boil  gently  until  the  mixture  is  of  the  right  consistency. 
From  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  should  thicken  a  quart.  Stir 
constantly. 

Alwai/8  boil  milk  and  custard  in  a  vessel  set  within 
another  of  boiling  water.  If  you  have  not  a  custard  or 
farina  kettle,  improvise  one  by  setting  a  tin  pail  inside  of  a 
pot  of  hot  water,  taking  care  it  does  not  float,  also  that  the 
water  is  not  so  deep  as  to  bubble  over  the  top.  Custards 
are  better  and  lighter  if  the  yolks  and  whites  are  beaten 
separately,  the  latter  stirred  in  at  the  last. 

Boiled  Custard. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

Yolks  of  five  eggs  aad  the  whites  of  seven — (two  for 

the  m6iingue). 
6  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
Vanilla  flavoring — 1  teaspoonful  to  the  pint. 

Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling ;  beat  the  yolks  light 


42G  COMMON   8EN8B. 

and  stir  in  the  sugar.  Add  the  milk  in  the  manner  de> 
scribed  in  ^'general  directions"  at  bead  of  this  section; 
stir  in  five  whites  whipped  stiff;  return  to  the  fire  and  stir 
until  thick,  but  not  until  it  breaks.  Season  it  with  vanilla, 
pour  into  glass  cups ;  whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a 
meringue  with  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  when  the  custard  is  cold,  pile  a  little  of  this  upon  the 
top  of  each  cup.  You  may  lay  a  preserved  strawberry  or 
cherry,  or  a  bit  of  melon  sweetmeat,  or  a  little  bright  jelly 
upon  each. 

ALMOin>  CUSTABDS. 

1  pint  milk  (half  cream). 

^  lb.  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste,  a  few  at 
a  time  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  adding  gradually — 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  rose-water. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs  and  whites  of  four — (two  for  me- 
ringue). 
4  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  extract  bitter  almond  in  mdringue. 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  the  sugar,  the 
almond  paste,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs.  Boil,  stirring 
constantly  until  it  thickens.  Stir  up  well  when  almost  cold 
and  pour  into  cups.  Make  a  mdringue  of  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  flavored 
with  bitter  almond,  and  heap  upon  each  cup. 

Quaking  Custard.  ►J* 

3  cups  milk. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs — reserving  the  whites  for  me- 
ringue. 

J  package  Cooper's  or  Coxe*s  gelatine. 

6  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring.  Juice  of  a  lemon  in  me- 
ringue. 


CUSTARDS,   BLAl^O-MANGES,   ETC.  427 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  the  cold  milk  two  hours. 
Then  heat  the  rest  of  the  milk  to  boiling,  add  that  in  which 
the  gelatine  is,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  latter  is  quite 
dissolved.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  let  it  stand  five  minutes 
before  putting  in  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar.  Heat  slowly 
until  it  begins  to  thicken  perceptibly,  not  boil — say  seven 
or  eight  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  When  nearly  cold, 
having  stirred  it  every  few  minutes  during  the  time,  flavor 
it,  wash  out  your  mould  in  cold  water,  and  without  wiping 
it,  pour  in  the  custard  and  set  on  the  ice  or  in  a  cold  place 
to  harden.  When  quite  firm,  turn  into  a  cold  dish,  loosen- 
ing it  by  wrapping  about  the  mould  a  cloth  wrung  out  in 
hot  water,  or  dipping  the  mould  for  an  instant  in  warm, 
not  boiling  water.  Have  ready  the  whites  whipped  to  a 
froth  with  three  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar  and  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Heap  neatly  about  the  base  of  the  moulded 
custard,  like  snow-drifts.  If  you  like,  you  may  dot  this 
with  minute  bit«  of  currant  jelly. 

This  is  a  pleasing  dish  to  the  eye  and  taste. 

Floatino  Island.  •{« 

1  quart  of  milk. 

4  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
4  tablespoonfuls  (heaping)  white  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  extract  bitter  almond  or  vanilla. 
^  cup  currant  jelly. 

Beat  the  yolks  well,  stir  in  the  sugar^  and  add  the  hot, 
not  boiling  milk,  a  little  at  a  time.  Boil  xmtil  it  begins  to 
thicken.  When  cool,  flavor  and  pour  into  a  glass  dish,  first 
stirring  it  up  well.  Heap  upon  it  a  m6ringue  of  the  whites 
into  which  you  have  beaten,  gradually,  half  a  cup  of  cur- 
rant, cranberry,  or  other  bright  tart  jelly.  Dot  with  bits 
of  jelly  cut  into  rings  or  stars,  or  straight  slips  laid  on  in  a 
pattern. 


428  COMMON  6EN8E. 

Spanish  Creak.  •{« 

•J-  box  of  gelatine. 
1  quart  of  milk. 
Yolks  of  three  eggs. 
1  small  cup  of  sugar. 

Soak  the  gelatine  an  hour  in  the  milk ;  put  on  the  fire 
and  stir  well  as  it  warms.  Beat  the  yolks  very  light  with 
the  sugar,  add  to  tho  scalding  milk,  and  heat  to  boiling 
point,  stirring  all  the  while.  Strain  through  thin  muslin 
or  tarlatan,  and  when  almost  cold,  put  into  a  mould  wet 
with  cold  water.     Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

Bavarian  Cream  (Very fine). 

1  quart  sweet  cream. 

Yolks  only  of  four  eggs. 

}  oz.  of  gelatine  or  isinglsiss. 

1  cup  (small)  of  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  bitter  almond  extract. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  just  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it, 
for  an  hour.  Drain,  and  stir  into  a  pint  of  the  cream 
made  boiling  hot.  Beat  the  yolks  smooth  with  the  sugar, 
and  add  the  boiling  mixture,  beaten  in  a  little  at  a  time. 
Heat  imtil  it  begins  to  thicken,  but  do  not  actually  boil ; 
remove  it  from  the  fire,  flavor,  and  while  it  is  still  hot  stir 
in  the  other  pint  of  cream,  whipped  or  churned  in  a  sylla- 
bub chum  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  in  this  **whip,"  a  spoon- 
ful at  a  time,  into  the  custard  until  it  is  the  consistency  of 
sponge-cake  batter.  Dip  a  mould  in  cold  water,  pour  in 
the  mixture,  and  set  on  tho  ice  to  form. 

Snow  Custard.  »J« 

i  package  Coxo's  gelatine. 
3  eggs. 


OnSTABDB,  BLANOMANGES    ETC.  429 

1  pint  milk. 

2  cups  of  sugar 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Soak  the  gelatine  one  hour  in  a  teacnpful  of  cold  water. 
To  this,  at  the  end  of  this  time,  add  one  pint  boiling  water. 
Stir  until  the  gelatine  is  thoroughly  dissolved ;  add  two- 
thirds  of  the  sugar  and  the  lemon-juice.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  when  the  gelatine  is  quite 
cold,  whip  it  into  the  whites,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  for  at  least 
an  hour.  Whip  steadily  and  evenly,  and  when  all  is  stiff, 
pour  into  a  mould,  previously  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set 
in  a  cold  place.  In  four  or  five  hours  turn  into  a  glass 
dish. 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  eggs,  and  remainder  of  the 

sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  bitter  almond,  and  when  the 

m6ringue  is  turned  out  of  the  mould,  pour  this  around  the 

base. 

Baked  Custasd. 
1  quart  of  milk. 

4  eggs,  beaten  light — whites  and  yolks  separately. 

5  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  mixed  with  the  yolks. 
Nutmeg  and  vanilla. 

Scald  but  not  boil  the  milk ;  add  by  degrees  to  the 
beaten  yolks,  and  when  well  mixed,  stir  in  the  whites. 
Flavor,  and  pour  into  a  deep  dish,  or  custard-cups  of  white 
stone-china.  Set  these  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  grate  nutmeg 
upon  each,  and  bake  until  Arm.     Eat  cold  from  the  cups. 

French  Tapioca  Custard.  »{« 

6  dessert  spoonfuls  tapioca. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

1  pint  of  cold  water. 

3  eggs. 


430  COMMON  SENSE. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  or  other  essence. 
1  heaping  cup  of  sugar. 
A  pinch  of  salt. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  water  five  hours.  Let  the  milk 
come  to  a  boil;  add  the  tapioca,  the  water  in  which  it  was 
boiled,  and  a  good  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  until  boiling  hot,  and 
add  gradually  to  the  beaten  jolks  and  sugar.  Boil  again 
{always  in  a  vessel  set  within  another  of  hot  water),  stir- 
ring constantly.  Let  it  cook  until  thick,  but  not  too  long^ 
as  the  custard  will  break.  Five  minutes  after  it  reaches  the 
boil  will  suffice.  Pour  into  a  bowl,  and  stir  gently  into  the 
mixture  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Flavor,  and  set  aside  in  a  glass  dish  until  very  cold. 

Eat  with  an  accompaniment  of  light  cake  and  brandied, 
or  canned  peaches  or  pears.  This  will  be  found  a  veiy 
delightful  dessert. 

Tapioca  Blanc-makge. 

^  lb.  tapioca,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  cold  water  four  hours. 

1  pint  rich  new  milk. 
f  cup  of  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  bitter  almond  or  vanilla  essence. 
A  little  salt. 

Heat  the  milk,  and  stir  in  the  soaked  tapioca.  When 
it  has  dissolved,  add  the  sugar.  Boil  slowly  fifteen  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time;  take  from  the  fire,  and  beat  until 
nearly  cold.  Flavor  and  pour  into  a  mould  dipped  in 
cold  water.  Turn  out,  and  pour  cold  sweetened  cream 
aroimd  it. 

Sago  Blanc-makge. 
May  be  made  in  the  same  way  as  tapioca. 


CUSTiLBDS,   BLANOHANGEB,   ETO.  431 

Cobn-Starch  Blakc-manqe.  4« 

1  qiiarfc  of  milk. 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch,  wet  in  a  little  cold  war- 

ter. 
3  eggs,  well  beaten — whites  and  jolks  separately. 
1  cup  of  sugar. 

Yanilla,  lemon,  or  other  essence.  * 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling ;  stir  in  the  com  starch  and 
salt,  and  boil  together  five  minutes  (in  a  farina-kettle),  then 
add  the  yolks,  beaten  light,  with  the  sugar ;  boil  two  min- 
utes longer,  stirring  all  the  while ;  remove  the  mixture  from 
the  fire,  and  beat  in  the  whipped  whites  while  it  is  boiling 
hot.  Pour  into  a  mould  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set  in  a 
cold  place.     Eat  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Fakina  Blang-uange 

Is  made  according  to  the  above  receipt,  but  boiled  fif- 
teen minutes  before  the  eggs  are  added.  You  may  omit 
the  eggs  if  you  like,  and  only  want  a  plain  dessert. 

Arrowroot  Blanc-mange.  »J« 

3  cups  of  new  milk. 

2^  tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot,  wet  up  with  cold  milk. 
}  cup  of  sugftr. 

Yanilla,  lemon,  or  bitter  almond  flavoring,  with  a  Kttle 
white  wine. 

Mbc  the  arrowroot  to  a  smooth  batter  with  one  cup  of 
the  milk.  Heat  the  remainder  to  boiling ;  add  the  arrow- 
root, stirring  constantly.  When  it  begins  to  thicken  put 
in  the  sugar,  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer,  still  stirring  it 
well  from  the  sides  and  bottom.     Take  it  ofi*;  beat  well  five 


432  COlOfON   SENSE. 

minutes ;  flavor  with  the  essence  and  a  small  wineglass  of 
white  wine.  Give  a  hard  final  stir  before  putting  it  into  a 
mould  wet  with  cold  water. 

This  ia  very  nourishing  for  invalids  and  joung  children. 
For  the  latter  you  may  omit  the  wine. 

Almond  Blakc-makge.  4« 

1  quart  of  milk. 

1  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine. 

3  ozs.  of  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  in  a  mortar, 

with 
1  tablespoonful  of  rose-water,  added  to  prevent  oiling. 
f  cup  sugar. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  having  previously  soaked  the 
gelatine  in  a  cup  of  it  for  an  hour.  Turn  in  this  when  the 
milk  is  scalding  hot ;  add  the  pounded  almond-paste,  and 
stir  all  together  ten  minutes  before  putting  in  the  sugar. 
When  the  gelatine  has  dissolved,  remove  the  blanc-mange 
from  the  vessel  of  boiling  water  in  which  you  have  cooked  it, 
and  strain  through  a  thin  muslin  bag,  pressing  it  well  to  get 
out  the  flavor  of  the  almonds.  There  should  be  three  or 
four  bitter  ones  among  them.  Wet  a  mould  with  cold 
water,  put  in  the  blanc-mange,  and  set  in  a  cold  place  until 
firm. 

You  may  make  blanc-mange  without  the  almonds,  al- 
though it  will  not  be  so  nice — and  substitute  vanilla  for 
the  rose-water. 

Neapolitan  Blanc-mange.  4« 

Make  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  and,  after  strain- 
ing, separate  into  four  different  portions,  allowing  about  a 
cupful  of  the  mixture  for  each.     Have  ready 


CITSTAEDS.   BLANO-MAKGES,    ETC.  433 

1  great  tablespoonful  chocolate,  wet  with  a  very  little 
boiling  water,  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste,  for  the 
brown  coloring. 

Yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  light  for  the  yellow. 

1  great  tablespoonful  currant  jelly  for  the  pink. 

Beat  the  chocolate  into  one  portion,  mixing  it  well ;  the 
jelly  into  another,  the  egg  into  a  third,  returning  this  and 
that,  flavored  with  chocolate,  to  the  fire,  and  stirring  until 
very  hot,  but  not  boiling.  Leave  the  fourth  uncolored.  When 
quite  cold  and  a  little  stiflf,  pour  carefully  into  a  wet  mould 
— ^the  white  first;  then  the  pink;  next  the  yellow;  and  the 
chocolate  last.  Of  course,  when  the  blanc-mange  is  turned 
out,  this  order  of  colors  will  be  reversed.  Set  in  a  cold 
place.  Loosen,  when  firm,  by  dipping  the  mould  for  a  mo- 
ment in  warm  water,  and  working  the  top  free  from  the 
edge  with  a  few  light  touches  of  your  fingers.  This  is  a 
handsome  dish  and  easily  managed.  Currant  juice  or  cran- 
berry color  a  finer  pink  than  jelly,  biit  are  apt  to  thin  the 
blanc-mange,  unless  used  cautiously.  A  little  vanilla  im- 
proves the  chocolate. 

Jaune-mange.  t^ 

1  oz.  Coxe's  gelatine,  soaked  in  half  a  cup  cold  water 

one  hour. 
1  cup  of  boiling  water. 
Yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  very  light. 
1  orange,  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel. 
1  lemon      **     and  one-third  the  grated  peel. 
1  cup  white  wine  or  clear  pale  sherry. 
1  cup  powdered  sugar  and  a  good  pinch  of  cinnamon. 

Stir  the  soaked  gelatine  in  the  boiling  water  until  dis- 
solved ;  take  from  the  fire  and  beat,  a  little  at  a  time,  into 
the  yolks;  return  to  the  inner  saucepan  with  the   sugar, 

19 


484  OOHMON   8SN8B. 

orange,  lemon,  and  cinnamon.  Stir  over  a  dear  fire  ttntil  it 
is  boiling  hot ;  put  in  the  vine  and  strain  through  a  hair- 
fiieve  or  a  piece  of  tarlatan.  Set  away  in  a  mould  wet 
with  cold  water. 

The  success  of  this  dish  depends  much  upon  the  stirring 
and  the  watchfulness  of  the  cook.  The  mixture  should  not 
be  allowed  to  boil  at  anj  moment. 

Yelyet  Blanoxakqe.  t^ 

2  cups  of  sweet  cream. 

•j^  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  very  little  cold  water 

one  hour. 
J  half  cup  white  sugar  (powdered). 
1  teaspoonfid  extittct  of  bitter  almonds. 
1  glass  white  wine. 

Heat  the  cream  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  gelatine  and  sugar, 
and,  so  soon  as  they  are  dissolved,  take  from  the  fire.  Beat 
ten  minutes,  or,  what  is  better,  chum  in  a  syllabub-churn 
until  very  light ;  flavor,  and  add  by  degrees  the  wine,  mixing 
it  in  well.     Put  into  moulds  wet  with  cold  water. 

Chocolatb  Blang-manoe. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

1  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  the  milk  one 

hour. 
4  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  rubbed  up 

with  a  little  milk. 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
|-  cup  sugar  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling ;  pour  in  the  gelatine  and  milk, 
and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved ;  add  the  sugar  to  the  beaten 
yolks  and  stir  until  smooth ;  beat  the  chocolate  into  this, 


OUBTAKDS,   BLANC-MANGES,   ETC.  435 

and  pour  in,  spoonful  by  spoonful,  the  scalding  milk  upon 
the  mixture,  stirring  all  the  while  until  all  is  in.  Return 
to  the  inner  saucepan  and  heat  gently,  stirring  faithfully 
until  it  almost  boils.  Remove  from  fire,  turn  into  a  bowl, 
and  whip  in  lightly  and  briskly  the  beaten  whites  with  the 
vanilla.     Set  to  form  in  moulds  wet  with  cold  water. 

Charlotte  Russe.  •{« 

1  lb.  of  ladyVfingers. 

1  quart  rich  sweet  cream. 
J  cup  powdered  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  other  extract. 

Split  and  trim  the  cakes,  and  fit  neatly  in  the  bottom 
and  sides  of  two  quart  moulds.  Whip  the  cream  to  a  stiff 
froth  in  a  syllabub-churn  when  you  have  sweetened  and 
flavored  it ;  fill  the  moulds,  lay  cakes  closely  together  on 
the  top,  and  set  upon  the  ice  until  needed. 

You  may  use  for  this  purpose  a  loaf  of  sponge-cake,  cutting 
strips  from  it  for  the  sides  and  leaving  the  crust  for  the  bot- 
tom and  top,  each  in  one  piece. 

A  Tipsy  Charlotte.  4« 

1  large  stale  sponge-cake. 

1  pint  rich  sweet  cream. 

1  cup  sherry  wine. 

J  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  cold  water  two 

hours. 
1  teaspoonful  vani?\a  or  bitter  almond  extract. 
8  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  together,  but  very  light. 
1  pint  milk. 
1  cup  sugar. 


436  COMMON   SENSE. 

Heat  the  cream  almost  to  boiling;  put  in  the  soaked 
gelatine  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  stir  until  dissolved. 
Kemove  from  the  fire,  flavor,  and,  when  cool,  beat  or  chum 
to  a  standing  froth.  Cut  off  the  top  of  the  cake  in  one 
piece,  and  scoop  out  the  middle,  leaving  tlie  sides  and  bottom 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Over  the  inside  of  these 
pour  the  wine  in  spoonfuls,  that  all  may  be  evenly  moistened. 
Fill  with  the  whipped  cream,  replace  the  top,  which  should 
also  be  moistened  with  wine  and  set  in  a  cold  place  imtil 
needed. 

Serve  with  it,  or  pour  around  it,  a  custard  made  of  the 
eggs,  milk,  and  the  other  half  cup  of  sugar. 

Chocolate  Charlotte  Eusse. 

^  oz.  Cooper^s  gelatine,  |oaked  in  a  very  little  cold 
water. 

3  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate  rubbed  smooth  in  a 

little  milk. 
^  cup  powdered  sugar. 

4  eggs. 

^  lb.  sponge-cake. 
1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
1  pint  cream. 

Heat  the  cream  to  boiling,  slowly,  stirring  frequently ; 
add  the  sugar,  chocolate,  and  gelatine,  and,  when  these  aro 
dissolved,  add,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  to  the  beaten  yolks. 
Set  back  in  the  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  five 
minutes,  until  very  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Take  it  ofi*, 
flavor,  and  whip  or  chum  to  a  standing  froth,  adding  the 
beaten  wliites  toward  the  last.  Line  a  mould  with  sponge- 
cake, fill  with  the  mixture,  and  set  upon  the  ice. 


CU8TABDS,  BLAUO-MiLNGES,   ETO.  437 

Flummery. 

2  oz.  almonds — a  few  bitter  among  them. 

1  tablespoonful  orange-flower  or  rose-water. 

1  pint  cream. 

1  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  one  hoar  in  one  cup  cold 

water. 
1  cup  milk. 
^   "     sugar. 

Blanch  the  almonds,  and,  when  cold,  pound  them  to  a 
paste  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  adding  orange-flower  or  rose- 
water  to  prevent  oiling.  Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  put  in 
the  gelatine,  the  sugar  and  almonds,  and  stir  five  minutes, 
or  until  they  are  thoroughly  dissolved.  Strain  through 
thin  muslin,  pressing  the  cloth  well.  When  cool,  beat  in 
the  cream,  a  little  at  a  time,  with  an  egg-whip,  or  churn 
in  a  syllabub-chum  until  thick  and  stiff.  Wet  your  mould, 
put  in  the  mixture,  and  let  it  stand  seven  or  eight  hours  in 
a  cold  place. 

Gelatine  Chaelotte  Eusse.     ( Very  nice.) 

1  pint  of  cream,  whipped  light. 
i  oz.  gelatine,  dissolved  in  1  gill  of  hot  milk. 
Whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
1  small  tea-cup  of  powdered  sugar. 
Flavor  with  bitter  almond  and  vanilla. 

Mix  the  cream,  eggs,  and  sugar ;  flavor,  and  beat  in  the 
gelatine  and  innillr  last.  It  should  be  quite  cold  before  it 
is  added. 

Line  a  mould  with  slices  of  sponge-cake,  or  with  lady  V 
fingers,  and  fill  with  the  mixture. 

Set  upon  the  ice  to  cool. 


438  COMMON  8EN8B. 

Whipped  Syllabubs. 

1  pint  of  cream,  rich  and  sweet. 

^  cup  sugar,  powdered. 

1  glass  of  wiue. 

YaniUa  or  other  extract,  1  large  teaspoonfuL 

Sweeten  the  cream,  and,  when  the  sugar  is  thoroughly 
dissolved,  stir  in  the  wine  carefully  with  the  flavoring  ex- 
tract, and  churn  to  a  strong  froth. 

Heap  in  glasses,  and  eat  with  cake. 

Gooseberry  Fool. 

1  quart  of  gooseberries,  ripe. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs. 

Meringue  of  whites,  and  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Stew  the  gooseberries  in  just  water  enough  to  cover 
them.  When  soft  and  broken,  rub  them  through  a  sieve 
to  remove  the  skins.  While  still  hot  beat  in  the  butter, 
sugar,  and  the  whipped  yolks  of  the  eggs.  File  in  a  glass 
dish,  or  in  small  glasses,  and  heap  upon  the  top  a  meringue 
of  the  whipped  whites  and  sugar. 

Creasc  Meringues. 

4  eggs  (the  whites  only),  whipped  stiff,  with  1  lb.  pow. 

dered  sugar. 
Lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring. 

When  very  stiff,  heap  in  the  shape  of  half  an  egg  upon 
stiff  letter-pai)er  lining  the  bottom  of  your  baking-pan. 
Have  them  half  an  inch  apart.  Do  not  shut  the  oven- 
door  closely,  but  leave  a  space  through  which  you  can 
watch  them.     When  they  are  a  light  yellow-brown,  take 


CU6TAI&DS,  BLANC-MANQES,   ETC.  439 

them  out  and  cool  quickly.  Slip  a  tbin-bladed  knife  under 
each ;  scoop  out  the  soft  inside,  and  fill  with  cream  whipped 
as  for  Charlotte  Russe. 

They  are  very  fine.     The  oven  should  be  veiy  hot, 

Calf's-Foot  Jelly. 

4  calf's  feet,  cleaned  carefully. 
4  quarts  of  water. 

1  pint  of  wine, 

3  cups  of  sugai^-or  sweeten  to  taste. 
Whites  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  nutmeg. 
Juice  of  1  lemon,  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

Boil  the  calf's  feet  in  the  water  until  it  is  reduced  one- 
half;  strain  the  liquor,  and  let  it  stand  ten  or  twelve  hours. 
Skim  off  every  particle  of  the  fat,  and  remove  the  dregs ; 
melt  slowly  in  a  porcelain  or  bell-metal  kettle,  add  the  sea- 
soning, sugar,  and  the  whipped  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  boil 
fast  about  twelve  minutes,  skimming  well.  Strain  through 
a  double  flannel  bag  suspended  between  the  four  legs  of  an 
upturned  high  stool  or  backless  chair,  the  bowl  set  beneath. 
Do  not  squeeze  or  shake  it,  until  the  jelly  ceases  to  run  freely ; 
then  slip  out  the  bowl,  and  put  under  another,  into  which 
you. may  gently  press  what  remains.  The  first  will  be  the 
clearer  jelly,  although  the  second  dripping  will  taste  quite 
as  well.  Wet  your  moulds,  put  in  the  jelly,  and  set  in 
a  cool  place. 

There  are  still  some  housekeepers  who  insist  that  the 
jellies  made  from  the  modem  gelatine  are  not  comparable 
in  beauty  and  flavor  to  those  prepared  from  the  genuine 
feet.  Seeing  means  taste  as  well  as  belief  with  them,  and 
when  they  handle' and  behold  the  beloved  feet,  they  know 
what  they  are  about.     Gelatine,  they  will  darkly  and  dis- 


440  COMMON  SENSB. 

gustfuUj  assert,  is  made  of  hom-shayings  and  hoofs  and  the 
like,  and  no  more  fit  to  be  used  for  cooking  purposes  than 
so  much  glue. 

Nevertheless,  while  gelatine  is  so  clean,  bright,  and  con- 
venient, housewives  who  find  the  days  now  but  half  as 
long  as  did  their  mothers,  despite  labor-saving  machines, 
will  turn  a  deaf  ear  to  these  alarmists,  and  escape  the 
tedious  process  above-described  bj  using  the  valuable  sub- 
stitute. 

Wine  Jelly.  4« 
2  lbs.  sugar. 

1  pint  of  wine — pale  sherry  or  white. 
1  pint  of  cold  water. 
1  package  Coxe^s  gelatine. 
Juice  of  two  lemons  and  grated  peel  of  one. 
1  quart  of  boiling  water. 
1  good  pinch  of  cinnamon. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  one  hour.  Add  to 
this  the  sugar,  lemons,  and  cinnamon ;  pour  over  all  a  quart 
of  boiling  water,  and  stir  until  the  gelatine  is  thoroughly 
dissolved.  Put  in  the  wine,  strain  through  a  double  fiannel 
bag,  without  squeezing,  wet  your  moulds  with  cold  water, 
and  set  the  jelly  away  in  them  to  cool. 

Cider  Jelly.  4« 

May  be  made  by  the  receipt  just  given,  substituting  a 
pint  of  clear,  sweet  cider  for  the  wine. 

Fever  patients  may  use  cider  jelly  when  wine  is  for- 
bidden, and  they  will  find  this  both  refreshing  and  nutri- 
tious. 


OnSTiLBDS,   BLANO-MA27GXS,   ETO.  441 

Bird's  Nest  ik  Jelly.  4« 

1  quart  of  jelly,  made  according  to  either  of  the  receipts 
just  given,  but  with  a  cup  less  of  boiling  water,  that 
it  may  be  very  firm. 

3  cups  of  white  blanc-mange. 

9  empty  eggshells. 

Fresh  rinds  of  two  oranges. 

J  cup  of  sugar. 

Cut  the  rind  from  the  oranges  in  long  narrow  strips,  and 
stew  these  gently  in  enough  water  to  cover  them  until  they 
are  tender.  Add  to  them  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  simmer 
fifteen  minutes  longer  in  the  syrup.  Lay  them  out  upon  a 
dish  to  cool,  taking  care  not  to  break  them.  If  you  have 
preserved  orange-peel  in  the  house,  it  will  serve  you  the 
trouble  of  preparing  this. 

The  blanc-mange  should  be  made  the  day  before  you  want 
it,  and  the  eggshells  filled.  The  original  contents,  yolk  and 
white,  should  be  poured  out  through  a  hole,  not  larger  than 
a  half-dime,  in  the  small  end,  and  the  interior  washed  with 
pure  water,  shaken  around  well  in  thenL  Then  fill  with 
blanc-mange  and  set  in  a  pan  of  flour  or  sugar — the  open  end 
up — that  they  may  not  be  jostled  or  overttirned. 

Next  morning  fill  a  glass  dish  two-thirds  full  of  the  jelly, 
which  should  be  very  clear,  reserving  a  large  cupful.  Break 
the  shells  from  about  the  blanc-mange,  and  lay  the  ai-tificial 
eggs  upon  the  jelly  so  soon  as  the  latter  is  firm  enough  to 
bear  them.  Pile  theiA  neatly,  but  not  too  high  in  the  mid- 
dle, bearing  in  mind  that  what  is  the  top  now  will  be  the 
bottom  when  the  jelly  is  turned  out.  Lay  the  orange  peel, 
which  represents  straWy  over  these  and  around  them.  Warm 
the  reserved  jelly,  so  that  it  will  flow  readily,  but  do  not 
get  it  hot ;  pour  over  the  straw  and  eggs,  and  set  away  in 

19* 


442  OOMMON   SENSE. 

• 

a  cold  place  to  form.     When  firm,  turn  out  upon  a  glass 
dish  or  salver. 

Thus  pretty  and  fanciful  dish  is  yet  easUy  made.  The 
materials  are  so  simple  and  inexpensive,  and  the  effect  of  the 
work,  if  deftly  done,  so  pleasing,  that  I  have  no  hesitation 
in  calling  the  attention  even  of  novices  to  it. 

Wine   Jelly  {boded). 

1  box  Coxe^s  gelatine,  soaked  in  1  pint  of  cold  water  one 
hour. 

1  quart  of  boiling  water  poured  over  this,  and  stirred 

until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved. 
1^  lb.  white  sugar. 

2  lemons— juice  and  peel. 

1  pint  of  wine. 

Put  all  over  the  fire,  boil  up  once  well,  and  strain  through 
a  double  flannel  bag  into  moulds. 

O&ANQE   Jelly. 

■ 

m 

2  oranges — juice  of  both  and  grated  rind  of  one. 
1  lemon — juice  and  peel. 

1  package  Coxe's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  very  little  water, 

one  hoiur. 
1  pint  boiling  water. 
1^  cup  sugar,  and  1  small  cup  of  wine. 
1  good  pinch  of  cinnamon. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  the  fruit  into  a  bowl,  and  put  with 
them  the  grated  peel  and  the  cinnamon.  Pour  over  them 
the  boiling  water,  cover  closely,  and  let  them  stand  half  an 
hour.  Strain,  add  the  sugar,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  stir  in 
the  gelatine,  and,  when  this  is  well  dissolved,  take  the  sauce- 
pan from  the  fire.  Strain  through  a  double  flannel  bag  into 
moulds. 


ICE-CBEAH  Aim  OTHEB  ICES.  443 

Vabiegatej)  Jelly,  t^ 

1  quart  of  dear  jelly. 

i  teaspoonful  prepared  cochineal  or  red  currant  juice. 

1  cup  white  blanc-mange. 

Divide  the  jelly  into  two  equal  portions,  and  color  one 
with  a  veri/  little  prepared  cochineal,  leaving  the  other  as  it 
is,  of  a  pale  amber.  Wet  a  mould  with  cold  water  and  pour, 
in  a  little  of  the  latter.  Set  the  mould  in  the  ice,  that  the 
jelly  may  harden  quickly,  and  so  soon  as  it  is  firm  pour  in 
carefully  some  of  the  red.  Set  back  upon  the  ice  to  get 
ready  for  the  amber,  adding  the  two  colors  in  this  order 
until  you  are  ready  for  the  base,  which  should  be  wider 
than  the  other  stripes,  and  consist  of  the  white  blanc-mange. 
Keep  both  jelly  and  blanc-mange  near  the  fire  until  you  have 
filled  the  mould — I  mean,  of  course,  that  intended  for  the 
latest  layers.     Let  all  get  very  firm  before  you  turn  it  out. 

You  may  vary  two  moulds  of  this  jelly  by  having  the 
blanc-mange  base  of  one  colored  with  chocolate,  a  narrow 
white  stripe  above  relieving  the  grave  efi*eck  of  the  brown. 

Ice-cream  and  otheb  Ices. 

If  you  wish  to  prepare  ice-cream  ai  an  hour's  notice,  you 
cannot  do  better  than  to  purchase  the  best  patent  freezer 
you  can  procure.  I  had  one  once  which  would  freeze  cream 
admirably  in  half  an  hour.  I  have  forgotten  the  patentee's 
name,  and  perhaps  this  is  well  for  him,  since  truth  would 
oblige  me  to  record  an  unlucky  habit  his  machine  had  of 
getting  out  of  order  just  when  I  wanted  it  to  do  its  best. 
My  earliest  recollections  of  ice-cream  are  of  the  discordant 
grinding  of  the  well-worn  freezer  among  the  blocks  of  ice 
packed  about  it — a  monotone  of  misery,  that,  had  it  been 
unrelieved  by  agreeable  associations  of  the  good  to  which  it 


441  .    OOMMOK  8EK8E. 

was  "  leading  up,"  would  not  have  been  tolerated  out  of 
Bedlam.  For  one,  two,  three,  sometimes  four  hours,  it  went 
on  without  other  variety  than  the  harsher  sounds  of  the  fresh 
ice  and  the  rattling  "  swash  "  as  the  freezer  plunged  amid 
the  icy  brine  when  these  were  nearly  melted ;  without  ces- 
sation save  when  the  unhappy  operator  nodded  over  his 
work,  or  was  relieved  by  another  predestined  victim  of  lux- 
ury and  ennui — a  battalion  of  the  laziest  juveniles  upon  the 
place  being  detailed  for  this  purpose.  I  verily  believed  in 
those  days  that  the  freezing  could  not  be  facilitated  by 
energetic  action,  and  used  to  think  how  fortunate  it  was 
that  small  darkeys  had  a  predilection  for  this  drowsy  em- 
ployment. I  shall  never  forget  my  amazement  at  seeing  a 
brisk  Yankee  housewife  lay  hold  of  the  handle  of  the  pon- 
derous tin  cylinder,  and  whirl  it  with  such  will  and  celerity, 
back  and  forth,  back  and  forth,  that  the  desired  end  came 
to  pass  in  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

That  day  has  gone  by.  Time  has  grown  too  precious 
now  even  to  juvenile  contrabands  for  them  to  sit  half  the 
day  shaking  a  freezer  under  the  locust-trees  on  the  old 
plantation  lawn.  Machines  that  will  do  the  work  in  one- 
tenth  of  the  time,  with  one-fiftieth  of  the  labor,  are  sold 
at  every  comer.  But,  so  far  as  I  know,  it  was  reserved  for 
a  nice  old  lady  up  in  the  **  Jersey  "  mountains — the  tidiest, 
thriftiest,  most  cheerful  bee  I  ever  knew — to  show  her  neigh- 
bors and  acquaintances  that  ice-cream  could  be  made  to 
freeze  itself.  For  five  or  six  years  I  have  practised  her 
method,  with  such  thankfulness  to  her,  and  such  satisfaction 
to  my  guests  and  family,  that  I  eagerly  embrace  the  op- 
portuni\;y  of  circulating  the  good  news. 

Self-freezing  Ice-cbeah.  •{« 

1  quart  rich  milk. 

8  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very  light. 


ICE-CBEAM  AKD  OTHER  ICES.  445 

4  cups  sugar. 

3  pints  lich  sweet  cream. 

5  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  other  seasoning,  or  1  vanilla 

bean,  broken  in  two,  boiled  in  the  custard,  and  left 
in  until  it  is  cold. 

Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling,  beat  the  yolks  light, 
add  the  sugar,  and  stir  up  well.  Pour  the  hot  milk  to  this, 
little  by  little,  beating  all  the  while ;  put  in  the  frothed 
whites,  and  return  to  the  fire — boiling  in  a  pail  or  sauce- 
pan set  within  one  of  hot  water.  Stir  the  mixture  steadily 
about  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  it  is  thick  as  boiled  custard. 
Pour  into  a  bowl  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  quite  cold, 
beat  in  the  cream;  and  the  flayoring,  unless  you  have  used 
the  bean. 

Have  re^dy  a  quantity  of  ice,  cracked  in  pieces  not  larger 
than  a  pigeon  egg — the  smaller  the  better.  You  can  manage 
this  easily  by  laying  a  great  lump  of  ice  between  two  folds 
of  coarse  sacking  or  an  old  carpet,  tucking  it  in  snugly, 
and  battering  it,  through  the  cloth,  with  a  sledge-hammer  or 
mallet  until  fine  enough.  There  is  no  waste  of  ice,  nor 
need  you  take  it  in  your  hands  at  all — only  gather  up  the 
comers  of  the  carpet  or  cloth,  and  slide  as  much  as  you 
want  into  the  outer  vessel.  Use  an  ordinary  old-fashioned 
upright  freezer,  set  in  a  deep  pail ;  pack  around  it  closely, 
first,  a  layer  of  pounded  ice,  then  one  of  rock  salt — common 
salt  will  not  do.  In  this  order  fill  the  pail ;  but  before  cov- 
ering the  freezer-lid,  remove  it  carefully  that  none  of  the  salt 
may  get  in,  and,  with  a  long  wooden  ladle  or  flat  stick  (I  had 
one  made  on  purpose),  beat  the  custard  as  you  would  batter, 
for  five  minutes,  without  stay  or  stint.  Replace  the  lid,  pack 
the  ice  and  salt  upon  it,  patting  it  down  hard  on  top ;  cover 
all  with  several  folds  of  blanket  or  carpet,  and  leave  it  for 
one  hour.      Then  remove  the  cover  of  tho  fireezer  when 


416  OOMMOK  SENSE. 

you  have  wiped  it  carefully  outside.  You  will  find  within  a 
thick  coating  of  frozen  custard  upon  the  bottom  and  sides. 
Dislodge  this  with  your  ladle,  which  should  be  thin  at  the 
lower  end,  or  with  a  long  carving-knife,  working  every 
particle  of  it  clear.  Beat  again  hard  and  long  until  the 
custard  is  a  smooth,  half-congealed  paste.  The  smoothness 
of  the  ice-cream  depends  upon  your  action  at  this  juncture. 
Put  on  the  cover,  pack  in  more  ice  and  salt,  and  turn  off  the 
brine.  Spread  the  double  carpet  over  all  once  more,  having 
buried  the  freezer  out  of  sight  in  ice,  and  leave  it  for  three 
or  four  hours.  Then,  if  the  water  has  accumulated  in  such 
quantity  as  to  buoy  up  the  freezer,  pour  it  off,  fill  up  with 
ice  and  salt,  but  do  not  open  the  freezer.  In  two  hours 
moi*e  you  may  take  it  from  the  ice,  open  it,  wrap  a  towel, 
wrung  out  in  boiling  water,  about  the  lower  part,  and  turn 
out  a  solid  column  of  cream,  firm,  close-grained,  and  smooth 
as  velvet  to  the  tongue. 

Should  the  ice  melt  very  fast,  you  may  have  to  turn  off 
the  water  more  than  twice ;  but  this  will  seldom  happen 
except  in  very  hot  weather.  You  need  not  devote  fifteen 
minutes  in  all  to  the  business  after  the  custard  is  made. 
You  may  go  into  the  cellar  before  breakfast,  having  made 
the  custard  overnight,  stir  in  the  cold  cream  and  flavoring, 
get  it  into  the  freezer  and  comfortably  packed  down  before 
John  is  through  shaving,  and  by  choosing  the  times  for 
your  stolen  visits  to  the  lower  regions,  surprise  him  and 
the  children  at  a  one-o^clock  dinner  by  the  most  delicious 
dessert  in  the  world.  I  have  often  laughed  in  my  sleeve  at 
seeing  my  John  walk  through  the  cellar  in  search  of  some 
mislaid  basket  or  box,  whistling  carelessly,  without  a  sus- 
picion that  his  favorite  delicacy  was  coolly  working  out  its 
own  solidification  under  the  inverted  barrel  on  which  1 
chanced  to  be  leaning  at  his  entrance. 

Any  of  the  following  receipts  for  custard  ice-cream  may 


I 


ICECRRAM  Am)  OTHEB  ICES.  447 

be  frozen  in  like  manner.  Do  not  spare  salt,  and  be  sure 
your  ice  is  finely  cracked,  and  after  tbe  second  beating  do 
not  let  tbe  air  again  into  tbe  freezer.  If  you  cannot  get  dry 
rock  salt,  tbat  wbicb  settles  at  tbe  bottom  of  fisb-barrels 
will  do  as  well.  Keep  tbe  freezer  bidden,  from  first  to  last, 
by  tbe  ice  beaped  over  it,  except  wben  you  bave  to  lift  tbe 
lid  on  tbe  occasions  I  bave  specified. 

Chocolate  Ice-cbeam.  ^ 

1  quart  of  cream. 

1  pint  new  milk. 

2  cups  sugar. 

2  eggs  beaten  very  ligbt. 

5  tablespoonfuls  cbocolate  rubbed  smootb  in  a  little  milk. 

Heat  tbe  milk  almost  to  boiling,  and  pour,  by  degrees, 
in  witb  tbe  beaten  egg  and  sugar.  Stir  in  tbe  cbocolate, 
beat  well  tbree  minutes,  and  return  to  tbe  inner  kettle. 
Heat  until  it  tbickens  well,  stirring  constantly ;  take  from 
tbe  fire  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Many  tbink  a  little  vanilla 
an  improvement.  Wben  tbe  custard  is  cold,  beat  in  tlio 
cream.     Freeze. 

Almond  Ice-creau. 

3  oz.  sweet  almonds  and  1  oz.  of  bitter,  blancbed,  and, 

wben  cold,  potmded  to  a  paste,  a  few  at  a  time, 
in  a  Wedge  wood  mortar,  adding 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  rosewater  to  prevent  oiling. 

3  pints  cream — fresb  and  sweet. 
Nearly  2  cups  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot,  wet  up  witb  cold  milk. 

Heat  one  pint  cream  almost  to  boiling,  add  tbe  sugar, 
and  wben  tbis  is  melted,  tbe  almonds.  Simmer  ten  minutes, 
stirring  often,  remove  from  tbe  fire,  and  let  all  stand  to- 


448  OOMMON   BEH8E. 

gether  ten  minutes  longer  in  a  covered  vesseL  Strain  out 
the  cream,  pressing  tlie  bag  hard  to  get  the  full  flavor  of 
the  almonds,  return  to  the  inner  saucepan  and  stir  in  the 
arrowroot  until  the  cream  thickens  —  say  five  minutes. 
When  cold,  beat  veiy  light  with  an  egg-whip,  adding  grad- 
ually the  rest  of  the  cream.  It  should  be  light  in  half  an 
hour.     Then  freeze. 

If  you  wish  to  mould  yo\ir  creams  in  fancy  shapes,  open 
your  freezer  two  hours  after  the  second  stirring  and  trans- 
fer the  cream  to  a  tight  mould,  having  given  it  a  third 
vigorous  beating.  Pack  this  down  in  ice  and  salt,  and  let 
it  stand  two  hours  longer  than  you  would  have  done  had 
it  remained  in  the  freezer. 

COFFEB   ICE-CREAH. 

3  pints  of  cream. 

1  cup  black  coffee — ^very  strong  and  clear. 

2  cups  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  arrowroot,  wet  up  with  cold  milk. 

Heat  half  the  cream  nearly  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  sugar, 
and,  when  this  is  melted,  the  cofifee ;  then  the  arrowroot. 
Boil  all  together  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  When 
cold,  beat  up  very  light,  whipping  in  the  rest  of  the  cream 
by  degrees.     Then  freeze. 

I  cannot  say  certainly  that  this  can  be  frozen  without 
turning,  although  I  see  n9  reason  why  it  should  not,  sinco 
the  arrowroot  gives  it  the  consistency  of  custard. 

Italian  Cream. 

2  pints  of  cream. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

2  lemons — juice  and  grated  peeL 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy. 


ICE-CBEAM  JlSD  OTHER  ICES.  449 

Sweeten  the  cream  and  beat  in  the  lemons  gradually, 
not  to  curdle  it;  add  the  brandy  and  freeze  in  a  patent 
freezer,  or  by  turning  quickly.  In  turning  the  freezer,  open 
twice  during  the  operation,  to  stir  and  beat  the  contents 
smooth. 

Lemon  Ice-cbeam.  »{« 

1  quart  of  cream. 

2  lemons — the  juice  of  one  and  the  grated  peel  of  one 

and-a-half. 
2  cups  of  sugar. 

Sweeten  the  cream,  beat  the  lemon  gradually  into  it, 
and  put  at  once  into  the  freezer.  Freeze  rapidly  in  a 
patent  freezer,  or  the  acid  is  apt  to  turn  the  milk. 

You  may  make  orauge  ice-cream  in  the  same  way. 

Pine-apple  Ice-cream.  ^ 

1  quart  of  cream. 

1  large  ripe  pine-apple. 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

Slice  the  pine-apple  thin,  and  scatter  the  sugar  between 
the  slices.  Cover  it,  and  let  the  fruit  steep  three  hours. 
Then  cut,  or  chop  it  up  in  the  syrup,  and  sti*ain  it  thi^ough 
a  hair  sieve  or  bag  of  double  coarse  lace.  Beat  gradually 
into  the  cream,  and  freezo  as  rapidly  as  possible. 

You  may,  if  you  like,  reserve  a  few  pieces  of  pine-apple, 
unsugared,  cut  into  square  bits,  and  stir  them  through  the 
cream  when  half  frozen. 

Peach  Ice-cream  ^ 

Is  very  nice  made  after  the  preceding  receipt,  with  two  or 
three  handfuls  of  freshly  cut  bits  of  the  fruit  stirred  in 
when  the  cream  is  half  frozen. 


450  OOMHON   8EN8E. 

Raspberbt  OB  Strawberry  Ice-creah.  »{i 

1  quart  ripe  sweet  benies. 

1  lb.  sugar. 

1  quart  fresh  cream. 

Scatter  half  the  sugar  over  the  berries  and  let  them 
stand  three  hours.  Press  and  mash  them,  and  strain  them 
through  a  thin  muslin  bag.  Add  the  rest  of  the  sugar, 
and  when  dissolved  beat  in  the  cream  little  by  little. 
Freeze  rapidly,  opening  the  freezer  (if  it  is  not  a  patent 
one)  several  times  to  beat  and  stir. 

Or, 

You  may  have  a  pint  of  whole  berries,  unsugared,  ready 
to  stir  in  when  the  cream  is  frozen  to  the  consistency  of 
stiflf  mush.  In  this  case  add  a  cup  more  sugar  to  the 
quart  of  crushed  berries. 

Frozen  Custard  with  the  Fruit  Frozen  in.  ^ 

1  quart  milk. 
1  quart  cream. 

6  eggs,  and  3  cups  of  sugar  beaten  up  with  the  yolks. 
1  pint  fresh  peaches,  cut  up  small,  or  fresh  ripe  ber- 
ries. 

Heat  the  quart  of  milk  almost  to  boiling,  and  add 
gradually  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar.  Whip  in  the 
frothed  whites,  return  to  the  custard-kettle,  and  stir  until 
it  is  a  thick,  soft  custard.  Let  it  get  perfectly  cold,  beat  in 
the  cream  and  freeze.  If  you  let  it  freeze  itself,  stir  in  the 
fruit  after  the  second  beating ;  if  you  turn  the  freezer,  when 
the  custard  is  like  congealed  mush. 


ICE-CSEAH  AND  OTHES  lOES.  451 

TuTTi  Frutti  Ice-cbeam.  ^ 

1  pint  of  milk. 
1  qaart  of  cream. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs — ^beaten  light  with  the  sugar. 
3  cups  of  sugar. 

1  lemon — j  nice  and  grated  peel. 
1  glass  of  pale  sherry,  and  ^  lb.  crystallized  fruits, 
chopped. 

Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling ;  pour  by  degrees  over 
the  eggs  and  sugar,  beating  all  together  well.  Return  to 
the  fire,  and  bail  ten  minutes,  or  until  set  into  a  good  cus- 
tard. When  cold,  beat  in  the  cream,  and  half  freeze  before 
you  stir  in  half  a  pound  of  crystallized  fruit — peaches, 
apricots,  cherries,  limes,  etc.,  chopped  very  fine.  Beat  in 
with  these  the  lemon  and  wine ;  cover  again,  and  freeze 
hard. 

In  all  fruit  ice-creams  the  beating  of  the  custard  should 
be  very  hard  and  thorough,  if  you  would  have  them  smooth. 

Lehok  Ice.  ^ 

6  lemons — juice  of  all,  and  grated  peel  of  three. 
1  large  sweet  orange — juice  and  rind. 
1  pint  of  water. 
1     "    of  sugar. 

Squeeze  out  every  drop  of  juice,  and  steep  in  it  the  rind 
of  orange  and  lemons  one  hour.  Strain,  squeezing  the 
bag  dry ;  mix  in  the  sugar,  and  then  the  water.  Stir  until 
dissolved,  and  freeze  by  turning  in  a  freezer — opening  three 
times  to  beat  all  up  together. 


452  OOMMON  SENSE. 

Orange  Ice.  »{« 

6  oranges — juice  of  all,  and  grated  peel  of  three. 

2  lemons — the  j  nice  only. 

1  pint  of  sugar  dissolved  in  1  pint  of  water. 

Prepare  and  freeze  as  you  would  lemon  ic6. 

Pineapple  Ice. 

1  juicy  ripe  pineapple — ^peeled  and  cut  smalL 

Juice  and  grated  peel  of  1  lemon. 

1  pint  of  sugar. 

1     "    water,  or  a  little  less. 

Strew  the  sugar  over  the  pineapple  and  let  it  stand  an 
hour.  Mash  all  up  together,  and  strain  out  the  syrup 
through  a  hair-sieve.     Add  the  water  and  fceeze. 

Cherry  Ice. 

1  quart  cherries,  with  half  the  stones  pounded  in  a 

"Wedgewood  mortar. 

2  lemons — the  juice  only. 

1  pint  of  water,  in  which  dissolve  1  pint  of  sugar. 
1  glass  of  fine  brandy. 

Squeeze  out  the  bruised  cherries  and  stones,  in  a  bag, 
over  the  sugar;  add  the  water,  then  the  brandy,  and 
freeze. 

It  will  require  a  longer  time  to  freeze  than  other  ices, 
on  account  of  the  brandy. 

Currant  and  Raspberry  Ice  (JFlne), 

1  quart  red  currants. 

1  pint  raspberries — ^red  or  white. 


BIFE  FBUn  FOB  DESSEBT.  453 

1  pint  of  water. 
1^  **    of  sugar. 

Squeeze  out  the  juice ;  mix  in  the  sugar  and  water,  and 
freeze. 

Strawberry  or  Easpberry  Ice. 

1  quart  berries.     Extract  the  juice  and  strain. 
1  pint  sugar — dissolved  in  the  juice. 
1  lemon — juice  only, 
-j-  pint  of  water. 


RIPE    FRUIT    FOR    DESSERT. 

Orai^ges 

May  be  put  on  whole  in  fruit-baskets,  or  the  skin  be 
,  cut  in  eighths  half  way  down,  separated  from  the  fruit  and 
curled  inward,  showing  half  the  orange  white,  the  other 
yellow.  Or,  pass  a  sharp  knife  lightly  around  the  fruit, 
midway  between  the  stem  and  blossom  end,  cutting  through 
the  rind  only.  Slip  the  smooth  curved  handle  of  a  tea- 
spoon carefully  between  the  peel  and  body  of  tlie  orange, 
and  gently  work  it  all  around  until  both  upper  and  lower 
halves  are  free,  except  at  stem  and  blossom.  Turn  the 
rind,  without  tearing  it,  inside  out,  making  a  white  cup  at 
either  end — the  round  white  fruit  between  them. 

Sal.U)E  d'Orange. 

Pare  and  slice  large  sweet  oranges ;  sprinkle  powdered 
sugar  thickly  over  each  slice,  and  pour  a  couple  of  glasses 
of  wine  on  the  top.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  all, 
and  serve  at  once,  or  the  fruit  will  lose  its  fre^diness. 

You  may  omit  the  wine  if  you  like. 

Do  not  let  any  fruit  intended  to  be  eaten  fresh  for  des- 


454  OOHMOK  8EN8E. 

sert  lie  in  tho  sugar  longer  than  is  absolutely  necessary. 
It  extracts  the  flavor  and  withers  the  pulp. 

Ambrosia. 

8  fine  sweet  oranges,  peeled  and  sliced. 
•)-  grated  cocoanut. 
^  cup  powdered  sugar. 

Arrange  the  orange  in  a  glass  dish,  scatter  the  grated 
cocoanut  thickly  over  it,  sprinkle  this  lightly  with  sugar, 
and  cover  with  another  layer  of  orange.  Fill  up  the  dish 
in  this  order,  having  cocoanut  and  sugar  for  the  top  layer. 
Serve  at  once. 

Apples. 

Wash  and  polish  with  a  clean  towel,  and  pile  in  a  china 
fruit-basket,  with  an  eye  to  agreeable  variety  of  color. 

Peaches  and  Pears. 

Pick  oub  the  finest,  handling  as  little  as  may  be,  and 
pile  upon  a  salver  or  flat  dish,  with  bits  of  ice  between 
them,  and  ornament  with  peach  leaves  or  fennel  sprigs. 

One  of  the  prettiest  dishes  of  fi-uit  I  ever  saw  upon  a 
dessert-table  was  an  open  silver  basket,  wide  at  the  top, 
heaped  with  rich  red  })eaches  and  yellow  Bartlett  peai-s, 
interspersed  with  feathery  bunches  of  green,  which  few  of 
those  who  admired  it  knew  for  carrot-tops.  Wild  white 
clematis  wreathed  the  handle  and  showed  here  and  there 
among  the  fruit,  while  scarlet  and  white  verbenas  nestled 
amid  the  green. 

Send  around  powdered  sugar  with  the  fruit,  as  many 
like  to  dip  peaches  and  pears  in  it  after  paring  and  quar- 
tering them. 


BIPE  FBUrr  FOB  DESSEBT.  455 

Strawberries,  Kaspberries,  and  Blackberries. 

Never  wash  strawberries  or  raspberries  that  are  intended 
to  be  eaten  as  fresh  fruit.  If  they  are  so  gritty  as  to  require 
this  process,  keep  them  off  the  table.  You  will  certainly 
ruin  the  flavor  beyond  repair  if  you  wash  them,  and  as  cer- 
tainly induce  instant  fermentation  and  endanger  the  coats 
of  the  eaters'  stomachs,  if,  after  profaning  the  exquisite  deli- 
cacy of  the  fruit  to  this  extent,  you  complete  the  evil  work 
by  covering  them  with  sugar,  and  leaving  them  to  leak  their 
lives  sourly  away  for  one  or  two  hours. 

Put  them  on  the  table  in  glass  dishes,  piling  them  high 
and  lightly,  send  around  powdered  sugar  with  them  and 
cream,  that  the  guests  may  help  themselves.  It  is  not  eco- 
nomical perhaps,  but  it  is  a  healthful  and  pleasant  style  of 
serving  them — I  had  almost  said  the  only  decent  one. 

"  But  I  don't  know  who  picked  them  I  "  cries  Mrs. 
Fussy. 

No,  my  dear  madam  !  nor  do  you  know  who  makes  the 
baker's  bread,  or  confectioner's  cakes,  creams,  jellies,  salads, 
etc.  Nor,  for  that  matter,  how  the  flour  is  manufactured 
out  of  which  you  conjure  your  dainty  biscuit  and  pies.  I 
was  so  foolish  as  to  go  into  a  flour-mill  once,  and  having 
seen  a  burly  negro,  naked  to  the  waist,  with  his  trousers 
rolled  up  to  his  knees,  stand  in  a  bank  of  "fine  family 
flour,"  a  foot  deep  in  the  lowest  part,  on  a  July  day,  shovel- 
ling it  into  barrels  for  the  market,  I  rushed  into  the  outer 
air  a  sicker  and  a  wiser  woman.  « 

I  know  God  made  strawberries.  "  Doubtless,"  says 
Bishop  Butler,  "  He  could  have  made  a  better  berry,  but 
He  never  did  1 "  The  picker's  light  touch  caxmot  mar  flavor 
or  beauty,  nor,  were  her  fingers  filthy  as  a  chimney-sweep's, 
could  the  delicate  fruit  sufler  from  them  as  from  your  bar- 
barous baptism.     You  would  like  to  know  who  picked  them* 


456  COMMON   8EK6E. 

I  should  inquire  instead,  '^  Who  washed  them,  and  in  what  ?  ^ 
I  recollect  seeing  a  housekeeper,  who  was  afflicted  with 
your  inquiring  turn  of  mind,  wash  strawherries  in  a  wash- 
hand  basin ! 

CURRA1?TS   AKD  KaSPBERRIES. 

Pick  the  currants  from  the  stems,  and  mix  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  raspberries.  Put  into  a  glass  bowl,  and  eat  with 
powdered  sugar. 

Frosted  Currants. 

Pick  fine  even  bimches,  and  dip  them,  one  at  a  time,  into 
a  mixture  of  frothed  white  of  egg,  and  a  very  little  cold 
water.  Drain  them  until  nearly  di*y,  and  roll  in  pulveiized 
sugar.  Kepeat  the  dip  in  the  sugar  once  or  twice,  and  lay 
them  upon  white  paper  to  dry.  They  make  a  beautiful 
garnish  for  jellies  or  charlottes,  and  look  well  heaped  in  a 
dish  by  themselves  or  with  other  fruit. 

Plums  and  grapes  are  very  nice  frosted  in  the  same 
way. 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES. 

Use  none  but  porcelain,  or  good  bell-metal  kettles  for 
preserves  and  jellies  If  the  latter,  clean  thoroughly  juRt 
before  you  put  in  the  syrup  or  fruit.  Scour  with  sand, 
then  set  it  over  the  fire,  with  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  a  large 
handful  of  salt  in  it.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil,  and  scour  the 
whole  of  the  inside  of  the  kettle  with  it.  Do  not  let  your 
preserves  or  anything  else  stand  one  moment  in  it  after  it 
is  withdrawn  from  the  fire ;  fill  the  emptied  kettle  instantly 
with  water  and  wash  it  perfectly  clean,  although  you  may 
mean  to  return  the  syrup  to  it  again  in  five  minutes.  By 
observing  these  precautions,  preserves  and  pickles  made  in 


I 


PBESEBYES    AND   FKUIT  JELLIES.  457 

bell-metal  may  be  rendered  as  good  and  wholesome  as  if 
the  fi-ailer  porcelain  be  used. 

Use  only  fine  sugar  for  nice  preserves.  Moist  or  dark 
sugar  cannot  be  made  to  produce  the  same  eflfcct  as  dry 
white. 

Do  not  hurry  any  needful  step  in  the  process  of  preserv- 
ing. Prepare  your  fruit  with  care,  weigh  accurately,  and 
allow  time  enough  to  do  your  work  well.  Put  up  the  pre- 
serves in  small  jars  in  preference  to  large,  and,  when  once 
made,  keep  them  in  a  cool,  dark  closet  that  is  perfectly 
dry.  Keep  jellies  in  small  stone  china  jars,  or  glass  tum- 
blers closely  covered.  You  can  procure  at  most  china  and 
glass  stores,  or  house-furnishing  establishments,  metal 
covers  with  elastic  rims  for  these,  which  can  be  used  from 
year  to  year. 

Cover  jellies  and  jams  with  tissue  paper,  double  and 
wet  with  brandy,  pressed  closely  to  the  conserve  before  you 
put  on  the  lid,  or  paste  on  the  thick  paper.  Examine  your 
shelves  frequently  and  narrowly  for  a  few  weeks  to  see  if 
your  preserves  are  keeping  well.  If  there  is  the  least  sign 
of  fermentation,  boil  them  over,  adding  more  sugar. 

If  jellies  are  not  so  firm  after  six  or  eight  hours  as  you 
would  have  them,  set  them  in  the  sun,  with  bits  of  window 
glass  over  them  to  keep  out  the  dust  and  insects.  Ren^pve 
these  at  night  and  wipe  off  the  moisture  collected  on  the 
under  side.  Repeat  this  every  day  until  the  jelly  shrinks 
into  firmness,  filling  up  one  cup  from  another  as  need  re- 
quires. This  method  is  far  preferable  to  boiling  down, 
which  both  injures  the  flavor  and  darkens  the  jelly. 

Preserved  Peaches.  •{•! 

"Weigh  the  fruit  after  it  is  pared  and  the  stones  ex- 
tracted, and  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  one  of  peaches. 
Crack  one  quarter  of  the  stones,  extract  the  kernels,  break 

20 


458  CX>MMOK  BEN8E. 

them  to  pieces  and  boil  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them, 
until  soft,  when  set  aside  to  steep  in  a  covered  vesseL  Put 
a  layer  of  sugar  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  then  one  of 
fruit,  and  so  on  until  you  have  used  up  all  of  both  ;  set  it 
where  it  will  warm  slowly  until  the  sugar  is  melted  and  the 
fruit  hot  through.  Then  strain  the  kernel-water  and  add 
it.  Boil  steadily  until  the  peaches  are  tender  and  clear. 
Take  them  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer  and  lay  upon 
large  flat  dishes,  crowding  as  little  as  possible.  Boil  the 
syrup  almost  to  a  jelly — that  is,  until  clear  and  thick,  skim- 
ming off  all  the  scum.  Fill  your  jars  two-thirds  full  of  the. 
peaches,  pour  on  the  boiling  syrup,  and,  when  cold,  cover 
with  brandy  tissue-paper,  then  with  cloth,  lastly  with  thick 
paper  tied  tightly  over  them. 

The  peaches  should  be  ready  to  take  off  after  half  an 
hour's  boiling ;  the  syrup  be  boiled  fifteen  minutes  longer, 
J^t,  and  often  stirred,  to  throw  up  the  scum.  A  few  slices 
of  pineapple  cut  up  with  the  peaches  flavor  them  finely. 

Preserved  Pears 

Are  put  up  precisely  as  are  peaches,  but  are  only  pared,  not 
divided.     Leave  the  stems  on. 

^  Peach  Marmalade.  ^ 

Pare,  stone,  and  weigh  the  fruit ;  heat  slowly  to  draw 
out  the  juice,  stirring  up  often  from  the  bottom  with  a 
wooden  spoon.  After  it  is  hot,  boil  quickly,  still  stirring, 
three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Add,  then,  the  sugar,  allowing 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  to  each  pound  of  the  fruit.  Boil 
up  well  for  ^YB  minutes,  taking  off  every  particle  of  scum. 
Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  for  every  three  pounds  of  fruit, 
and  the  water  in  which  one-fourth  of  the  kernels  have  been 
boiled  and  steeped.     Stew  all  together  ten  minutes,  stirring 


PBE8EBVES   AND  FBUIT  JELLIES.  459 

to  a  smooth  paste^  and  take  from  the  fire.  Put  up  hot  in 
air-tight  cans,  or,  when  cold,  in  small  stone  or  glass  jars, 
with  brandied  tissue-paper  fitted  neatly  to  the  surface  of  the 
marmalade. 

A  large,  ripe  pineapple,  pared  and  cut  up  fine,  and  stir- 
red with  the  peaches,  is  a  fine  addition  to  the  flavor. 

Preserved  Quinces.  ^ 

Choose  fine  yellow  quinces.  Pare,  quarter,  and  core 
them,  saving  both  skins  and  cores.  Put  the  quinces  over 
the  fire  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  simmer 
until  they  are  soft,  but  not  until  they  begin  to  break.  Take 
them  out  carefully,  and  spread  them  upon  broad  dishes  to 
cool.  Add  the  parings,  seed,  and  cores,  to  the  water  in 
which  the  quinces  were  boiled,  and  stew,  closely  covered, 
for  an  hour.  Strain  through  a  jelly-bag,  and  to  every  pint 
of  this  liquor  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  up  and  skim  it, 
put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Take  all  from  the 
fire  and  pour  into  a  large  deep  pan.  Coves  closely  and  let 
it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Drain  off  the  syrup  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil;  put  in  the  quinces  carefully  and  boil  another 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Take  them  up  as  dry  as  possible,  and 
again  spread  out  upon  dishes,  setting  these  in  the  hottest 
sunshine  you  can  find.  Boil  the  syi*up  until  it  begins  to 
jelly ;  fill  the  jars  two-thirds  full  and  cover  with  the  syrup. 
The  preserves  should  be  of  a  fine  red.  Cover  with  brandied 
tissue-paper. 

Preserved  Apples. 

Firm,  well-flavored  pippins  or  bell-flower  apples  make 
an  excellent  preserve,  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as 
quinces.  A  few  quinces  cut  up  among  them,  or  the  juice 
of  two  lemons  to  every  three  pounds  of  fruit,  improves 
them. 


460  OOldniON   SENSE. 

Quince  Marmalade.  *^ 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  the  quinces,  stewing  the  skins,  cores, 
and  seed  in  a  vessel  by  themselves,  with  just  enough  water 
to  cover  them.  When  this  has  simmered  long  enough  to 
extract  all  the  flavor,  and  the  parings  are  broken  to  pieces, 
strain  off  the  water  through  a  thick  cloth.  Put  the  quinces 
into  the  preserve-kettle  when  this  water  is  almosf  cold,  pour 
it  over  them  and  boil,  stirring  and  mashing  the  fruit  with 
a  wooden  spoon  as  it  becomes  soft.  The  juice  of  two 
oranges  to  every  three  pounds  of  the  fruit  imparts  an  agree- 
able flavor.  When  you  have  reduced  all  to  a  smooth  paste, 
stir  in  a  scant  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  every 
pound  of  frmt;  boil  ten  minutes  more,  stirring  constantly. 
Take  off,  and  when  cool  put  into  small  jars,  with  brandied 
papers  over  them. 

Quince  Cheese 

Is  marmalade  boiled  down  very  thick,  packed  int-o  small 
pots.  It  will  turn  out  Arm  as  cheese,  and  can  be  cut  in 
slices  for  luncheon  or  tea. 

Apple  Butter. 

This  is  generally  made  by  the  large  quantity. 

Boil  down  a  kettleful  of  cider  to  two-thirds  the  oriiri- 
nal  quantity.  Pare,  core,  and  slice  juicy  apples,  and  put  as 
many  into  the  cider  as  it  will  cover.  Boil  slowly,  stirring 
often  with  a  flat  stick,  and  when  the  apples  are  tender  to 
breaking,  take  them  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  di-ain- 
ing  well  against  the  sides  of  the  kettle.  Put  in  a  second 
supply  of  apples  and  stew  them  soft,  as  many  as  the  cider 
will  hold.  Take  from  the  fire,  pour  all  together  into  a  tub 
or  large  crock ;  cover  and  let  it  stand  twelve  hours.  Then 
return  to  the  kettle  and  boil  down,  stirring  all  the  while 


FBESEBVES  ASTD  FBUIT  JELLIES.  461 

tinti]  it  is  the  consistencj  of  soft  soap,  and  brown  in  color. 
Yoii  may  spice  to  taste  if  you  please. 

Keep  in  stone  jars  in  a  dry^  cool  place.  It  should  keep 
all  winter. 

Preserved  Crab-apples.  tj< 

m 

The  red  Siberian  crab  is  best  for  this  purpose.  Pick 
out  those  that  are  nearly  perfect,  leaving  Hie  sterna  on,  and  put 
into  a  preserve-kettle,  with  enough  warm  water  to  cover 
them.  Heat  this  to  boiling,  slowly,  and  simmer  until  the 
skins  brei\k.  Drain  and  skin  them ;  then,  with  a  penknife, 
extract  the  cores  through  the  blossom  ends.  Weigh  them ; 
allow  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar  and  a  teacupful  of 
water  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  the  water  and  sugar 
together  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise ;  put  in  the  fruit,  cover 
the  kettle,  and  simmer  until  the  apples  are  a  clear  red,  and 
tender.  Take  out  with  a  skimmer;  spread  upon  dishes 
to  cool  and  harden ;  add  to  the  syrup  the  juice  of  one  lemon 
to  three  pounds  of  fruit,  and  boil  until  clear  and  rich.  Pill 
your  jars  three-quarters  full  of  the  apples,  pour  the  syrup 
in,  and,  when  cool,  tie  up. 

Preserved  Green-gaoes  and  Large  Purple  Plums.  ^ 

Weigh  the  fruit  and  scald  in  boiling  water  to  make 
the  skins  come  off  easily.  Let  them  stand  in  a  large  bowl 
an  h<)ur  after  they  are  peeled,  that  the  juice  may  exude. 
Drain  this  off;  lay  the  plums  in  the  kettle,  alternately 
with  layers  of  sugar,  allowing  pound  for  pound ;  pour  the 
juice  over  the  top  and  heat  slowly  to  a  boil.  Take  out  the 
plums  at  this  point,  very  carefully,  with  a  perforated  skim- 
mer, draining  them  well  through  it,  and  spread  upon  broad 
dishes  in  the  sun.  Boil  the  syrup  until  thick  and  clear, 
skimming  it  faithfully.  Eetum  the  plums  to  this,  and  boil 
ten  minutes.     Spread  out  again  until  cool  and  £rm ;  keep- 


4G2  COMMON  6EN8E. 

ing  the  syrup  hot  on  the  fire,  fill  your  jars  three-quarters 
full  with  the  fruit ;  pour  on  the  scalding  syrup,  cover  to 
keep  in  the  heat,  and,  when  cold,  tie  up. 

Or, 

If  you  do  not  care  to  take  the  trouble  of  peeling  the 
fruit,  prick  it  in  several  places  with  a  needle,  and  proceed 
as  directed. 

Unique  Preserves. 

Gather  young  cucumbers,  a  little  longer  than  your 
middle  finger,  and  lay  in  strong  brine  .  one  week. 
Wash  them  and  soak  a  day  and  a  night  in  fiedr  water, 
changing  this  four  times.  Line  a  bell-metal  kettle  with 
vine-leaves,  lay  in  the  cucumbers,  with  a  little  alum  scat- 
tered among  them;  fill  up  with  clear  water;  cover  with 
vine-leaves,  then  with  a  close  lid,  and  green  as  for  pickles. 
Do  not  let  them  boil.  When  well  greened,  drop  in  ice- 
water.  When  perfectly  cold,  wipe,  and  with  Iei  small  knife 
slit  down  one  side ;  dig  out  the  seeds ;  stuff  with  a  mixture 
of  chopped  raisins  and  citron ;  sew  up  the  incision  with 
fine  thread.  Weigh  them,  and  make  a  syrup,  allowing  a 
pound  of  sugar  for  every  one  of  cucumbers,  with  a  pint 
of  water.  Heat  to  a  lively  boil,  skim,  and  drop  in  the 
fruit.  Simmer  half  an  hour,  take  out  and  spread  upon 
a  dish  in  the  sun  while  you  boil  down  the  syrup,  with  a 
few  slices  of  ginger-root  added.  Wlien  thick,  put  in  the 
cucumbers  again ;  simmer  five  minutes  and  put  up  in  glass 
jars  ;  tying  them  up  when  cold. 

An  odd,  but  also  a  singularly  delicious  sweetmeat. 

Dahsoxs 

Are  put  up  in  the  same  manner  as  plums,  but  pricked, 
instead  of  skinned. 


PRESEBYES   AND  FBUTT  JELLIES.  463 

Pbeseryed  Obanoe  Peel.     (  Very  nice,) 

Weigh  the  oranges  whole,  and  allow  pound  for  pound. 
Peel  the  oranges  neatly  and  cut  the  rind  into  narrow  shreds. 
Boil  until  tender,  changing  the  water  twice,  and  replenish- 
ing with  hot  from  the  kettle.  Squeeze  the  strained  juice 
of  the  oranges  over  the  sugar ;  let  this  heat  to  a  boil ;  put 
in  the  shi-eds  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 

Lemon  peel  can  be  preserved  in  the  same  way,  allowing 
more  sugar. 

OfiANGE  Marmalade. 

Allow  pound  for  pound.  Pare  half  the  oranges  and  cut 
the  rind  into  shreds.  Boil  in  three  waters  until  tender, 
and  set  aside.  Grate  the  rind  of  the  remaining  oranges ; 
take  off  and  throw  away  every  bit  of  the  thick  white  inner 
skin;  quarter  all  the  oranges  and  take  out  the  seeds. 
Chop,  or  cut  them  into  small  pieces ;  drain  all  the  juice 
that  will  come  away,  without  pressing  them,  over  the  sugar  ; 
heat  this,  stirring  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  adding  a  very 
little  water,  unless  the  oranges  are  very  juicy.  Boil  and 
skim  five  or  six  minutes ;  put  in  the  boiled  shreds,  and 
cook  ten  minutes  ;  then  the  chopped  fruit  and  grated  peel, 
and  boil  twenty  minutes  longer.  When  cold,  put  into  small 
jars,  tied  up  with  bladder  or  with  paper  next  the  fruit, 
cloths  dipped  in  wax  over  all.  A  nicer  way  still  is  to  put 
away  in  tumblers  with  self-adjusting  metal  tops.  Press 
brandied  tissue-paper  down  closely  to  the  fruit. 

Lemon  MARMAiiADE. 

Is  made  as  you  would  prepare  oi-ange — ^allowing  a  pound 
and  a  quarter  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  the  fruit,  and  using 
but  half  the  grated  peeL 


4t6i  COMMON   6ENBE. 

Preserved  Pineapple.  ^J^ 

Pare,  cut  into  slices,  take  out  the  core  of  each  one,  and 
weigh,  allowing  pound  for  pound  of  sugar  and  fruit.  Put 
in  alternate  layers  in  the  kettle  and  pour  in  water,  allowing 
a  teacupful  to  each  pound  of  sugar.  Heat  to  a  boil ;  take 
out  the  pineapple  and  spread  upon  dishes  in  the  sun. 
Boil  and  skiin  the  syrup  half  an  hour.  Return  the  pine- 
apple to  the  kettle  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Take  it  out, 
pack  in  wide-mouthed  jars,  pour  on  the  scalding  syrup ; 
cover  to  keep  in  the  heat,  and,  when  cold,  tie  up,  first  put- 
ting brandied  tissue-paper  upon  the  top. 

Pineapple  Marmalade. 

Pai-e,  slice,  core,  and  weigh  the  pineapple ;  then  cut 
into  small  bits.  Make  a  syrup  of  a  teacup  of  water  to  two 
pounds  of  sugar;  melt,  and  heat  to  a  boil.  Heat  tho 
chopped  pineapple  in  a  vessel  set  within  one  of  boiling 
water,  covering  it  closely  to  keep  in  the  flavor.  When  it 
is  smoking  hot  all  through,  and  begins  to  look  clear,  add 
to  the  syrup.  Boil  together  half  an  hour,  stirring  all  the 
while,  or  until  it  is  a  clear,  bright  paste. 

Preserved  Citron  or  Water-melon  Kind. 

Pare  off  the  green  skin,  and  the  soft,  white,  inner 
rind.  Cut  into  strips  or  into  fanciful  shapes.  Allow  a 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  rind. 
Line  your  kettle  with  vine-leaves  and  fill  with  the  rind, 
Bcattoring  a  little  pulverized  alum  over  each  layer.  Cover 
with  vine-leaves,  three  thick ;  pour  on  water  enough  to  reach 
and  wet  these,  and  lay  a  close  lid  on  the  top  of  tho  kettle. 
I^et  all  steam  together  for  three  hours ;  but  the  water 
must    not    actually    boil.      Take    out    your   rind,    which 


PBESEBYES  AND  FBUIT  JELLIES.  465 

should  be  well  greened  by  this  process,  and  throw  at  onoe 
into  very  cold  water.  It  should  lie  in  soak,  changing  the 
water  every  hour,  for  four  houi-s. 

For  the  syrup,  allow  two  cups  of  water  to  a  pound  and 
a  quarter  of  sugar.  Boil,  and  skim  it  until  no  more  scum 
comes  up ;  put  in  the  rind,  and  simmer  gently  nearly  an 
hour.  Take  it  out,  and  spread  upon  dishes  in  the  sun 
until  firm  and  almost  cool.  Sinmier  in  the  syrup  for  half 
an  hour ;  spread  out  again,  and,  when  firm,  put  into  a  large 
bowl,  and  pour  over  it  the  scalding  syrup. 

Twelve  hours  later  put  the  syrup  again  over  the  fire, 
adding  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  tiny  strip  of  ginger-root 
for  every  pound  of  rind.  Boil  down  until  thick  ;  pack  the 
lind  in  jars  and  pour  over  it  the  syrup.  Tie  up  whbn 
cool. 

A  very  handsome  sweetmeat,  although  rather  insipid  in 
flavor.  The  reader  can  judge  whether,  as  the  charity  boy 
said  of  the  alphabet,  and  the  senior  Weller  of  matrimony, 
it  is  worth  while  to  go  through  so  much  and  get  so  little. 

Presebved  Ginger,  t^ 

Pare  the  roots  of  green  ginger  and  lay  in  cold  water  fif- 
teen minutes.  Boil  in  three  waters,  changing  the  hot  for 
cold  every  time,  until  very  tender ;  drain,  and  lay  in  ice- 
water.  For  the  syrup,  allow  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
sugar  for  every  pound  of  ginger,  and  a  cupful  of  water  for 
each  pound  of  sugar.  Boil,  and  skim  until  the  scum  ceases 
to  rise.  When  the  syrup  is  cold,  wipe  the  ginger  dry  and 
drop  it  in.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Drain  off  and 
reheat  the  syrup.  This  time  put  the  ginger  in  when  blood 
warm.  Do  not  look  at  it  again  for  two  days.  Then  reboil 
the  syrup,  and  pour  over  the  ginger  scalding  hot.  In  a 
week  drain  off  once  more,  boil,  and  add  again  while  hot  to 

20* 


466  COHMOK   BEK8E. 

the  ginger ;   cover  closely.      It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  fort- 
night. 

Preserved  Cherries.  »{« 

Stone  the  cherries,  preserving  every  drop  of  jnioe. 
Weigh  the  fruit,  allowing  pound  for  pound  of  sugar.  Put 
a  layer  of  fi*uit  for  one  of  sugar  until  all  is  used  up  ;  pour 
over  the  juice  and  boD  gently  until  the  syrup  begins  to 
thicken. 

The  short-stem  red  cherries  or  the  Morellas  are  best  for 
preserves.     Sweet  cherries  will  not  do. 

Preserved  Strawberries.  tj< 

Pound  for  pound.  Put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  over 
a  slow  fire  until  the  sugar  melts.  Boil  twenty-five  minutes, 
fast.  Take  out  the  fruit  in  a  perforated  skimmer  and  fill 
a  number  of  small  cans  three-quai-tcrs  full.  Boil  and  skim 
the  syrup  five  minutes  longer,  fill  up  the  jars,  and  seal  while 
hot. 

Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Strawberry  Jam.  4^ 

For  every  pound  of  frmt  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 

sugar. 
1  pint  red  currant  jtdce  to  every  4  pounds  strawber- 

ries. 

Boil  the  juice  of  the  currants  with  the  strawberries  half 
an  hour,  Stirling  all  the  time.     Add  the  sugar,  and  boil 
up  rapidly  for  about  twenty  minutes,  skimming  carefully. 
Put  in  small  jars,  with  brandied  tissue-paper  over  the  top. 

You  can  omit  the  currant  juice,  but  the  flavor  will  not 
be  so  fine. 


PBE8EBVE8  AND  FBUTT  JELLIES.  467 

Easpberbt  Jam.  *^ 

f  lb.  of  sugar  to  every  lb.  fruit. 

Put  the  fruit  on  alone,  or  with  the  addition  of  a  pint  of 
currant  juice  to  every  four  pounds  of  fruit.  Boil  half  an 
hour,  mashing  and  stirring  well.  Add  the  sugar,  and  cook 
twenty  minutes  more.  Blackberry  jam  is  very  nice  made 
as  above,  leaving  out  the  currant  juice. 

GOOSEBBBBT  JaM 

Is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  raspberry,  only  the  cur- 
rant juice  is  omitted,  and  the  gooseberries  boiled  one  hour 
without  the  fruit,  and  another  after  it  is  put  in.  The  fridt 
must  be  ripe. 

EiPE  Tomato  Presebves.  ^ 

7  lbs.  round  yellow,  or  egg  tomatoes — peeled, 
7  lbs.  sugar,  and  juice  of  3  lemons. 

Let  them  stand  together  over  night.  Drain  off  the  syi*up 
and  boil  it,  skimming  well.  Put  in  the  tomatoes  and  boil 
gently  twenty  minutes.  Take  out  the  fruit  with  a  perfo- 
rated skimmer,  and  spread  upon  dishes.  Boil  the  syrup 
down  until  it  thickens,  adding,  just  before  you  take  it  up, 
the  juice  of  three  lemons.  Put  the  fruit  into  the  jars  and 
fill  up  with  hot  syrup.     When  cold,  seal  or  tie  up. 

Green  Tomato  Pbesebyes.     (Good,) 

8  lbs.  small  green  tomatoes.     Pierce  each  with  a  fork. 

7  lbs.  sugar. 

4  lemons — the  juice  only. 

1  oz.  ginger  and  mace  mixed. 

Heat  all  together  slowly,  and  boil  until  the  fruit  is 
clear.     Take  it  frofti  the  kettle  in  a  perforated  Bkimmer, 


468  GOMHOK   SEN^SS. 

and  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool.     Boil  the  syrup  thick.   Put 
the  fruit  into  jars  and  cover  with  hot  syrup. 

Preserved  Figs.  ^ 

The  weight  of  ripe  figs  in  sugar. 
Peel  of  one  lemon  and  juice  of  two. 
A  little  ginger. 

Cover  the  figs  with  cold  water  for  twelve  hours.  Then 
simmer  in  water  enough  to  cover  them  until  tender,  and 
spread  out  upon  a  sieve  to  cool  and  harden.  Make  a  syrup 
of  the  sugar,  and  a  cup  of  cold  water  for  every  pound- 
Boil  until  clear  of  scum ;  put  in  the  figs  and  simmer  tea 
minutes.  Take  them  out  and  spread  upon  dishes  in  the 
sun.  Add  the  lemons  and  ginger ;  boil  the  syrup  thick ; 
give  the  figs  another  boil  of  fifteen  minutes,  and  fill  the 
jars  three-quarters  of  the  way  to  the  top.  Fill  up  with 
boiling  syrup,  cover,  and,  when  cold,  seal  up. 


Baked  Apples.  9^» 

Cut  out  the  blossom  end  of  sweet  apples — Campfields  or 
Pound  Sweets — with  a  sharp  •  penknife ;  wash,  but  do  not 
pare  them ;  pack  them  in  a  large  pudding-dish ;  pour  a  cup- 
ful of  water  in  the  bottom,  cover  closely  with  another  dish 
or  pan ;  set  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  steam  until  tender  all 
through.  Pour  the  liquor  over  them  while  hot,  and  repeat 
this  as  they  cool.  Set  on  the  ice  several  hours  before  tea, 
and,  when  you  ai'e  ready,  transfer  them  to  a  glass  dish, 
pouring  the  juice  over  them  again.  Eat  with  powdered 
sugar  and  cream.  Applets  baked  in  this  way  are  more  ten- 
der and  digestible,  and  better  flavored,  than  those  baked  in 
an  open  vessel.     Campfields  are  particularly  good. 


pbesebyeb  aitd  fruit  jellies.  469 

Apples  Stewed  Whole.  9^» 

Pare,  and  vnth  a  small  knife  extract  the  cores  of  fine 
juicy  apples  that  are  not  too  tart ;  put  in  a  deep  dish  with 
just  enough  water  to  cover  them ;  cover  and  bake,  or  stew, 
in  a  moderate  oven,  until  they  are  tender  and  clear ;  take 
out  the  apples,  put  in  a  bowl,  and  cover  to  keep  hot ;  put 
the  juice  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  cupful  of  sugar  for  twelve 
apples,  and  boil  half  an  hour.  Season  with  mace,  ginger, 
or  whole  cloves,  adding  the  spice  ten  minutes  before  you 
remove  the  syrup  from  the  fire.  Pour  scalding  over  the 
apples,  and  cover  until  cold. 

Eat  with  cream. 

Baked  Pears. 

Sweet  pears'  may  be  baked  just  as  sweet  apples  are — 
i.  e.,  steamed  without  being  pared  or  cored. 

Or, 

If  large,  cut  in  half,  put  into  a  deep  dish,  with  a  very 
little  water;  sprinkle  them  with  sugar,  and  put  a  few 
cloves,  or  bits  of  cinnamon,  or  a  pinch  of  ginger  among 
them.     Cover  closely,  and  bake  until  tender. 

Stewed  Pears.  »{« 

If  small  and  ripe,  cut  out  the  blossom-end,  without 
paring  or  coring ;  put  into  a  ^ucepan,  with  enough  water 
to  cover  them,  and  stew  until  tender;  add  a  half  cupful 
of  sugar  for  every  quart  of  pears,  and  stew  all  together  ten 
minutes ;  take  out  the  pears,  lay  in  a  covered  bowl  to  keep 
warm;  add  to  the  syrup  a  little  ginger  or  a  few  cloves; 
boil  fifteen  minutes  longer,  and  pour  over  the  fruit  hot. 


470  COMMON  BEH8B. 

Or, 

If  the  pears  are  not  quite  ripe,  but  hard  and  disposed 
to  be  tough,  peel  them,  cut  out  the  blossom-end,  leaving  on 
the  stems,  and  stew  until  tender  in  enough  water  to  cover 
them.  Take  them  out,  set  by  in  a  covered  dish  to  keep 
warm ;  add  to  the  liquor  in  the  saucepan  an  equal  quantity 
of  the  best  molasses  and  a  little  ginger ;  boil  half  an  hour, 
skim,  and  return  the  pears  to  the  saucepan.  Stew  all  to- 
gether twenty  minutes,  and  pour  out. 

These  are  very  good,  and  will  keep  a  week  or  more, 
even  in  warm  weather.  I  have  canned  them  while  boiling 
hot,  and  kept  them  sweet  a  whole  year. 

Baked  Quinces. 

Pare  and  quarter ;  extract  the  seeds  and  stew  the  fruit 
in  clear  water  until  a  straw  will  pierce  them ;  put  into  a 
baking-dish  with  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  to  every  eight 
quinces;  pour  over  them  the  liquor  in  which  they  were 
boiled ;  cover  closely,  and  steam  in  the  oven  one  hour ;  take 
out  the  quinces,  lay  them  in  a  covered  bowl  to  keep  warm ; 
return  the  syrup  to  the  saucepan,  and  boil  twenty  minutes ; 
pour  over  the  quinces,  and  set  away  covered  to  cooL 

Eat  cold. 


FKUIT  JELLIES. 

CURBANT,   BlACKBERBY,   STRAWBERRY,   ETC.  ^ 

Put  the  fruit  into  a  stone  jar ;  set  this  in  a  kettle  of 
tepid  water,  and  put  it  uj)on  the  fire.  Let  it  boil,  closely 
covered,  until  the  fruit  is  broken  to  pieces;  strain,  pressing 
the  bag  (a  stout  coarse  one)  hard,  putting  in  but  a  few 
handfuls  at  a  time,  and  between  each  squeezing  tumiug  it 


FBTTIT  JELLIES.  471 

insido  out  to  scald  ofif  the  pulp  and  skins.  To  each  pint  of 
juice  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Set  the  juice  on  alone  to 
boil,  and  while  it  is  warming  divide  the  sugar  into  several 
different  portions,  and  put  into  shallow  pie-dishes  or  pans  that 
will  fit  in  your  ovens ;  heat  in  these,  opening  the  ovens  now 
and  then  to  stir  it  and  prevent  burning.  Boil  the  juice 
just  tioenty  minutes  from  the  moment  it  begins  fairly  to  boil. 
By  this  time  the  sugar  should  be  so  hot  you  cannot  bear 
your  hand  in  it.  Should  it  melt  around  the  edges,  do  not 
be  alarmed.  The  burned  parts  will  only  form  into  lumps 
in  the  syrup,  and  can  easily  be  taken  out.  Throw  the  sugar 
into  the  boiling  juice,  stirring  rapidly  all  the  while.  It 
will  "hiss"  as  it  falls  in,  and  melt  very  quickly.  With- 
draw your  spoon  when  you  are  sure  it  is  dissolved.  Let 
the  jelly  just  come  to  a  boil,  to  make  all  certain,  and  take 
the  kettle  instantly  from  the  fire.  Boll  your  glasses  or 
cups  in  hot  water,  and  fill  with  the  scalding  liquid.  If 
these  directions  be  strictly  followed,  and  the  fruit  is  at  the 
proper  state  of  ripeness,  there  need  be  no  dread  of  failure. 
I  have  often  had  the  jelly  "form"  before  I  filled  the  last 
glass. 

I  wish  it  were  in  my  power,  by  making  known  the  ad- 
vantages of  the  process  I  have  described,  to  put  an  end  to 
the  doubts  and  anxieties  attendant  upon  the  old-fashioned 
method  of  boiling  jelly  into  a  preserve.  This  plan  is  so 
simple  and  safe,  the  jelly  made  so  superior  in  flavor  and 
color  to  that  produced  by  boiHng  down  juice  and  fruit,  that 
no  one  who  has  ever  tried  both  ways  can  hesitate  to  give  it 
the  preference.  I  have  put  up  jelly  in  no  other  way  for 
twelve  years,  and  have  never  failed  once. 

Strawberry  jelly  should  have  a  little  lemon-juice  added 
to  that  of  the  fruit.  Both  it  and  black beiTy,  and  very  ripe 
raspberry  jelly,  are  apt  to  be  less  firm  than  that  made 
from  more  tart  fruits ;  still,  do  not  boil  it.     Set  it  in  the 


473  COMMON  SENSE. 

sun,  as  I  have  directed  at  the  begiimiiig  of  the  section  upon 
preserves  and  fruit  jellies,  filling  one  cup  from  anotlier  as 
the  contents  shrink.  The  sun  will  boil  it  down  with  less 
waste,  and  less  injury  to  color  and  taste,  than  the  fife  will. 
Cooking  jelly  always  darkens  it. 

Put  brand ied  tissue-paper  over  the  top  of  each  glass 
when  cold  and  firm,  paste  a  thick  paper  over  it,  and  keep 
in  a  dry  place. 

Easpberrt  and  Currant  Jelly.  >{• 

To  two  parts  red  raspberries  or  "  Blackcaps,"  put  one 
of  red  cun-ants,  and  proceed  as  with  other  berry  jelly. 

The  flavor  is  exquisite.  This  jelly  is  especially  nice  for 
cake. 

Wild  Cherry  and  Currant  Jelly,  t^* 

Two-thirds  wild  cherries  (stones  and  all)  and  one  of  red 
currants.  A  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice,  and  make  as 
you  do  plain  currant  jelly. 

This,  besides  being  very  palatable  and  an  excellent  table 
jelly,  is  highly  medicinal,  good  for  coughs  and  any  weak- 
ness of  the  digestive  organs.  I  put  it  up  first  as  an  experi- 
ment, and  because  I  chanced  to  have  the  cheriies.  Now  I 
would  not  pass  the  winter  without  it,  unless  obliged  to  do 
so  by  a  failure  of  the  fruit  crop. 

Peach  Jelly.  4* 

Crack  one-third  of  the  kernels  and  put  them  in  the  jar 
with  the  peaches,  which  should  be  pared,  stoned,  and 
sliced.  Heat  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  stirring  from  time 
to  time  until  the  fruit  is  well  broken.  Strain,  and  to  every 
pint  of  peach  juice  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Measure 
again,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  liquid.  Heat 
the  sugar  very  hot,  and   add  when  the  jtdce  has  boiled 


CALKED  FBTjrrS  AND  VEGETABLES.  473 

twenty  minutes.      Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  take  instantly 
from  the  fire. 

This  is  very  fine  for  jelly- cake. 

Gbeen  Fox  Grape  Jelly  9^» 

Is  made  after  the  receipt  for  cuiTant  jelly,  only  allowing 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice. 
Kipe  grapes  require  but  pound  for  pint. 

Quince  Jelly.  9^» 

Pare  and  slice  the  quinces,  and  add  for  every  five  pounds 
of  fruit  a  cup  of  water.  Put  peelings,  cores,  and  all  into  a 
stone  jar;  set  this  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and,  when  the 
fruit  is  soft  and  broken,  proceed  as  with  other  jellies. 

Crab-apple  Jelly.  t^» 

Cut  Sibeiian  crab-apples  to  pieces,  but  do  not  pare  or 
remove  the  seeds.  The  latter  impart  a  peculiarly  pleasant 
flavor  to  the  fruit.  Put  into  a  stone  jar,  set  in  a  pot  of  hot 
water,  and  let  it  boil  eight  or  nine  hours.  Leave  in  the  jar 
all  night,  covered  closely.  Next  morning,  squeeze  out  the 
juice,  allow  pound  for  pint,  and  manage  as  you  do  currant 
jelly. 

Should  the  apples  be  very  dry,  add  a  cup  of  water  for 
every  six  pounds  of  fruit. 

There  is  no  finer  jelly  than  this  in  appearance  and  in 

taste. 

» 

CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 

Within  a  few  years  canned  fruits  have,  in  a  great 
measure,  superseded  preserves.  They  are  cheaper,  more 
wholesome,  and  far  less  difficult  to  prepare.     Attention  to 


474;  COMMON   SENSE. 

a  few  general  rules  will  insure  success  to  every  housekeeper 
who  sensihlj  prefers  to  put  up  her  own  season's  supply 
of  these  to  purchasing  those  for  double  the  cost,  which  ai^ 
not  nearly  so  good. 

First,  examine  cans  and  elastics  narrowly  before  you 
begin  operations.  See  that  the  screw  is  in  order,  the  can 
without  crack  or  nick,  the  elastic  firm  and  closely  fit- 
ting. 

Secondly,  have  the  fruit  boiling  hot  when  sealed.  Have 
upon  the  range  or  stove  a  pan  in  which  each  empty  can  is 
set  to  be  filled  after  it  is  rolled  in  hot  water.  Lay  elastic 
and  top  close  to  your  hand,  fill  the  can  to  overflowing,  re 
membering  that  the  fruit  will  shrink  as  it  cools,  and  that  a 
vacuum  invites  the  air  to  enter ;  clap  on  the  top  without 
the  loss  of  a  second,  screw  as  tightly  as  you  can,  and  as  the 
contents  and  the  can  cool,  screw  again  and  again  to  fit  the 
contraction  of  metal  and  glass. 

Tliirdly,  if  you  use  glass  cans  (and  they  are  cheapest  in 
the  end,  for  you  can  use  them  year  after  year,  getting  new 
elastics  when  you  need  them)  keep  them  in  a  cool,  dark  place, 
and  dry  as  well  as  cool.  The  light  will  cause  them  to  fer- 
ment, and  also  change  the  color. 

Cant^ed  Berries.  »{< 

Heat  slowly  to  boiling,  in  a  large  kettle.  When  they 
begin  to  boil,  add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  one  tablespoon- 
ful  to  each  quart  of  fruit.  Before  doing  tliis,  however, 
if  there  is  much  juice  in  the  kettle,  dip  out  the  surplus  with 
a  dipper  or  cup.  It  will  only  increase  the  number  of  cans 
to  be  filled,  without  real  advantage  to  you.  Leave  the  berries 
almost  dry  before  putting  in  the  sugar.  This  will  make 
syrup  enough.     Boil  all  together  fifteen  minutes,  and  can. 

Huckleberries,  grapes,  blackberries,  curi'ants,  raspber- 
ries, cherries,  and  strawberries  jmt  up  in  this  way  are  very 


CANNED  FEUTTS  AND  VEGETABLES.       475 

good  eaten  as  you  would  preserves,  and  make  pies  which  are 
scarcely  inferior  to  those  filled  with  fresh  fruit. 

Canned  Peaches.  »{« 

Pare,  cut  in  half  and  stone,  taking  care  not  to  break 
the  frnit ;  drop  each  piece  in  cold  water  so  soon  as  it  is 
pared.  The  large,  white  freestone  peaches  are  nicest  for 
this  purpose.  Firmness  of  texture  is  a  desideratum.  The 
fruit  should  be  ripe,  but  not  soft.  Allow  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit,  scattering  it 
between  the  layers.  Fill  your  kettle  and  heat  slowly  to  a 
boil.  Boil  three  minutes,  just  to  assure  yourself  that  every 
piece  of  fruit  is  heated  through.  Can  and  seal.  It  is, 
safe  to  put  a  cupful  of  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle 
before  packing  it  with  fruit,  lest  the  lower  layer  should 
bum. 

Canned  Pears.  ^ 

For  the  finer  varieties,  such  as  the  Bartlett  and  Seckel, 
prepare  a  syrup,  allowing  a  pint  of  pure  water  and  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  fruit.  While  this  is 
heating,  peel  the  pears,  dropping  each,  as  it  is  pared,  into  a 
pan  of  clear  water,  lest  the  color  should  change  by  exposure 
to  the  air.  When  the  syrup  has  come  to  a  fast  boil,  put  in 
the  pears  carefully,  not  to  bruise  them,  and  boil  until  they 
look  clear  and  can  be  easily  pierced  by  a  fork.  Have  the 
cans  ready,  rolled  in  hot  water,  pack  with  the  pears  and  fill 
to  overflowing  with  the  scalding  syrup,  which  must  be  kept 
on  the  fire  all  the  while,  and  seal. 

The  tougher  and  more  common  pears  must  be  boiled  in 
water  until  tender ;  thrown  while  warm  into  the  hot  syrup, 
then  allowed  to  boil  ten  minutes  before  they  are  canned. 

Apples  may  be  treated  in  either  of  the  above  w»iys  as 
their  texture  may  seein  to  demand. 


476  COMMON  SEI78E. 

Canned  Plums.  •}« 

Prick  with  a  noodle  to  prevent  bursting;  prepare  a 
syrup  allowing  a  gill  of  pure  water  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  every  throe  quarts  of  fruit.  When  the  sugar 
is  dissolved  and  the  water  blood-warm,  put  in  the  plums. 
Heat  slowly  to  a  boil.  Let  them  boil  five  minutes — not 
fiist  or  they  will  break  badly,  fill  up  the  jars  with  plums, 
pour  in  the  scalding  syrup  until  it  runs  down  the  sides, 
and  seal. 

Greengages  are  very  fine  put  up  in  this  way ;  also  dam- 
sons for  pies. 

Canned  Tomatoes.  >|* 

"  I  don't  hold  with  any  of  these  new-fangled  notions," 
said  an  old  lady  to  me,  when  I  mentioned  that  my  canning 
was  over  for  the  summer.  **  I  was  beguiled,  two  yeara  ago, 
into  putting  up  some  tomay teases  in  cans,  and  if  I'm  for- 
given for  that  folly  I'll  never  tempt  Providence  in  tde 
same  manner  again." 

<*  Thoy  didn't  keep,  then  ?  " 

"  Keep  !  they  sp'iled  in  a  week  I  'Twas  no  more'n  I 
expected  and  deserved  for  meddling  with  such  a  hum- 
bug." 

**  Perhaps  you  did  not  follow  the  directions  closely  ?  " 

^'  Indeed  I  did !  I  cooked  the  tormented  things,  and 
seasoned  'em  with  butter  and  salt,  all  ready  for  the  table, 
and  screwed  the  tops  down  tight.  But,  in  course,  they 
sp'iled  1 " 

"  Were  you  careful  to  put  them  into  the  cans  boiling 
hot  ?  " 

"  'Twould  have  cracked  the  glass !  I  let  'em  get  nice 
and  cold  first.  I  didn't  suppose  it  made  any  difference 
about  such  a  trifle  as  that !  " 

Poor  old  lady !     I  think  of  her  and  her  mighty  temptsr 


CAJSTNED  FRUrrS   AND  VEGETABLES.  477 

lion  of  Providence  whenever  I  can  tomatoes,  for  heat  does 
make  a  difference — all  the  diffeience  in  the  world  in  this 
sort  of  work. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  tomatoes  to  loosen  the 
skins.  Remove  these;  drain  off  all  the  juice  that  will 
come  away  without  pressing  hard ;  put  them  into  a  kettle 
and  heat  slowly  to  a  boil.  Your  tomatoes  will  look  much 
nicer  if  you  remove  all  the  hard  parts  before  putting 
them  on  the  fire,  and  rub  the  pulp  soft  with  your  hands. 
Boil  ten  minutes,  dip  out  the  surplus  liquid,  pour  the 
tomatoes,  boiling  hot,  into  the  cans,  and  seal.  Keep  in  a 
cool,  dark  place. 

Canned  Tomatoes  and  Corn.  >|* 

Boil  the  com  on  the  cob,  when  it  is  in  nice  order  for 
roasting,  twenty  minutes  over  a  good  fire,  and  cut  off  while 
hot.  Have  your  tomatoes  skinned  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth 
pulp.  Put  in  two  measures  of  them  for  every  one  of  the  cut 
corn ;  salt  as  for  the  table,  stirring  it  well  in,  and  bring  to 
a  hard  boil.  Then,  can  quickly,  and  as  soon  as  they  are 
cold  set  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Pkeserved  Geeen  Corn.   4* 

Boil  on  the  cob  until  the  milk  ceases  to  flow  when  the 
grain  is  pricked.  Cut  off  the  corn  and  pack  in  stone  jars 
in  the  following  order: — A  layer  of  salt  at  the  bottom, 
half  an  inch  deep.  Then  one  of  com  two  inches  in  depth, 
another  half-inch  of  salt,  and  so  on  until  the  jar  is  nearly 
filled.  Let  the  topmost  layer  of  salt  be  double  the  depth  of 
the  others,  and  pour  over  all  melted — not  hot — lard.  Press 
upon  this,  when  nearly  hard,  thick  white  paper,  cut  to  fit 
the  mouth  of  the  jar.  Keep  in  a  cool  place.  Soak  over- 
night before  using  it. 


478  COMMON'  SENSE. 

Qreen  com  is  difficult  to  can,  but  I  know  it  will  keep 
well  if  put  up  in  thiu  way.  And,  strange  to  tell,  be  so 
fresh  after  the  night^s  soaking  as  to  require  salt  when  vou 
boil  it  for  the  table.  Should  the  top  layer  be  musty,  dig 
lower  still,  and  you  will  probably  be  rewarded  for  the  search. 


BRANDIED    FRUITS. 

BRAimiED  Peaches  or  Peabs.  •{* 

4  lbs.  fruit. 

4  lbs.  sugar. 

1  pint  best  white  brandy. 

Make  a  syrup  of  th&  sugar  and  enough  water  to  dissolve 
it.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil ;  put  the  fruit  in  and  boil  five 
minutes.  Having  removed  the  fruit  carefully,  let  the  syrup 
boil  fifteen  minutes  longer,  or  until  it  thickens  well ;  add 
the  brandy,  and  take  the  kettle  at  once  from  the  fire ;  pour 
the  hot  syrup  over  the  fruit,  and  seal. 

If,  after  the  fruit  is  taken  from  the  fire,  a  reddish  liquor 
oozes  from  it,  drain  this  off  before  adding  the  clear  syrup. 
Put  up  in  glass  jars. 

Peaches  and  pears  should  be  peeled  for  brandying. 
Plums  should  be  pricked  and  watched  carefully  for  fear  of 
bursting. 

pRAin^iED  Cherries  or  Berries.  >|* 

Make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  half  gill  of 
water  for  every  two  lbs.  of  fruit.  Heat  to  boiling,  stirring 
to  prevent  burning,  and  pour  over  the  berries  while  warm 
--710^  hot.  Let  them  stand  together  an  hour ;  put  all  into 
a  preserving-kettle,  and  heat  slowly;  boil  five  minutes,  tako 
out  the  fruit  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  boil  the  syrup 


0ANDIE8.  479 

twenty  minutes.    Add  a  pint  of^brandy  for  every  five  pounds 
of  &uit ;  pour  over  the  berries  hot,  and  seaL 


CANDIES. 

Molasses  Candy.  »{< 

1  quart  good  molasses. 

^  cup  vinegar. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  saleratus. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  vinegar,  mix  with  the  molas- 
ses, and  boil,  stirring  frequently,  until  it  hardens  when 
dropped  from  the  spoon  into  cold  water;  then  stir  in  the 
butter  and  soda,  the  latter  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Flavor  to 
your  taste,  give  one  hard  final  stir,  and  pour  into  l>uttered 
dishes.  As  it  cools,  cut  into  squares  for  "  tafiey,"  or,  while 
soft  enough  to  handle,  pull  white  into  sticks,  using  only  the 
buttered  tips  of  your  fingers  for  that  purpose. 

SUGAB-CANDY.  tj^ 

6  cups  of  sugar. 

1  cup  of  vinegar. 

1  cup  of  water. 

Tablespoonful  of  butter,  put  in  at  the  last,  with 

1  teaspoonful  saleratus  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Boil,  without  stirring,  half  an  hour,  or  until  it  crisps  in 
cold  water.     Pull  white  with  the  tips  of  your  fingers. 

Since  children  must  eat  candy,  this  is  the  best  you  can 
give  them.     It  is  very  nice.     Flavor  to  taste. 


480  COHMOir  SENSE. 


PICKLES. 

Use  none  but  the  best  cider  vinegar ;  especially  avoid 
the  sharp  colorless  liquid  sold  under  that  name.  It  is  weak 
sulphuric  acid,  warranted  to  riddle  the  coat  of  any  stomach, 
even  that  of  an  ostrich,  if  that  bird  were  so  bereft  of  the 
instinct  of  self-preservation  as  to  make  a  lunch  of  bright- 
green  cucumber-pickle  seven  times  a  week. 

If  you  boil  pickles  in  bell-metal,  do  not  let  them  stand 
in  it  one  moment  when  it  is  off  the  fire ;  and  see  for  your- 
self that  it  is  perfectly  clean  and  newly  scoured  before  the 
vinegar  is  put  in. 

Keep  pickles  in  glass  or  hard  stoneware ;  look  them 
over  every  month ;  remove  the  soft  ones,  and  if  there  are 
several  of  these,  drain  off  and  scald  the  vinegar,  adding  a 
cup  of  sugar  for  each  gallon,  and  pour  hot  over  the  pickles. 
If  they  are  keeping  well,  throw  in  a  liberal  handful  of  sugar 
for  every  gallon,  and  tie  thtiu  up  again.  This  tends  to 
presei*ve  them,  and  mellows  the  sharpness  of  the  vinegar. 
This  does  not  apply  to  sweet  pickle. 

Pickle,  well  made,  is  better  when  a  year  old  than  at  the 
end  of  six  months.  I  have  eaten  walnut  pickle  ten  years 
old  that  was  very  fine. 

Keep  your  pickles  well  covered  with  vinegar. 

If  you  use  ground  spices,  tie  them  up  in  thin  muslin 
bags. 

Cucumber  or  Gherkin  Pickle.  4* 

(  hoose  small  cucumbers,  or  gherkins,  for  this  purpose. 
They  are  more  tender,  and  look  better  on  the  table.  Re- 
ject all  over  a  finger  in  length,  and  every  one  that  is  mis- 
shapen or  specked,  however  slightly.  Pack  in  a  stone  jar 
or  wooden  bucket,  in  layers,  strewing  salt  thickly  between 
these.     Cover  the  top  layer  out  of  sight  with  salt,  and  pour 


PICKLES.  481 

ou  cold  water  enough  to  cover  all.  Lay  a  funall  plate  or 
round  board  upon  them,  with  a  clean  stone  to  keep  it  down. 
You  may  leave  them  in  the  brine  for  a  week  or  a  month, 
stirring  up  from  the  bottom  every  other  day.  If  the  longer 
time,  be  sure  your  salt  and  water  is  strong  enough  to  bear 
up  an  egg.  If  you  raise  your  own  cucumbers,  pick  them 
every  day,  and  drop  in  the  pickle.  When  you  are  ready  to 
put  them  up,  throw  away  the  brine,  with  any  cucumbers 
that  may  have  softened  under  the  process,  and  lay  the  rest 
in  cold  fresh  water  for  twenty-four  hours.  Change  the 
water  then  for  fresh,  and  leave  it  for  another  day.  Have 
a  kettle  ready,  lined  with  green  vine-leaves,  and  lay  the 
pickles  eyenly  within  it,  scattering  powdered  alum  over  the 
layers.  A  bit  of  alum  as  large  as  a  pigeon-egg  will  be 
enough  for  a  two-gallon  kettleful.  Fill  with  cold  water, 
cover  with  vine-leaves,  three  deep ;  put  a  close  lid  or  in- 
verted pan  over  all,  and  steam  over  a  slow  fire  five  or  six 
hours,  not  allowing  the  water  to  boil.  When  the  pickles 
are  a  fine  green,  remove  the  leaves  and  throw  the  cucumbers 
into  very  cold  water.  Let  them,  stand  in  it  while  you  pre- 
pare the  vinegar.  To  one  gallon  allow  a  cup  of  sugar,  three 
dozen  whole  black  peppers,  the  same  of  cloves,  half  as 
much  allspice,  one  dozen  blades  of  mace.  Boil  ^ve  minutes; 
put  the  cucumbers  into  a  stone  jar,  and  pour  the  vinegar 
over  them  scalding  hot.  Cover  closely.  Two  days  after- 
ward scald  the  vinegar  again  and  return  to  the  pickles. 
Itepeat  this  process  three  times  more,  at  intervals  of  two, 
four,  and  six  days.  Cover  with  a  stoneware  or  wooden 
top ;  tie  stout  cloth  over  this,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 
They  will  be  ready  for  eating  in  two  months.  Examine 
every  few  weeks. 

21 


482  COMMON   SENSE. 

Pickled  Mangoes.  »{< 

Young  miiRk  or  nutmeg  melons. 

English  mustard-seed,  two  handfuls,  mixed  with 

Scraped  hoTBeradish,  one  handful. 

Mace  and  nutmeg  ])ounded,  1  teaspoonful. 

Choj)pod  garlic,  2  teaspoonfuls. 

A  little  ginger. 

Whole  pej»i)er-corns,  1  dozen. 

^  tablesj)oouful  of  ground  mustard  to  a  pint  of  the 

mixture. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar  to  the  same  quantity. 
1  "  best  salad  oil  to  the  same. 

1  teaspoonful  celery-seed. 

Cut  a  slit  in  the  side  of  the  melon ;  insei  t"*  your  finger 
and  extract  all  the  seeds.  If  you  cannot  get  them  out  in 
this  way,  cut  a  slender  piece  out,  saving  it  to  replace, — but 
the  slit  is  better.  Lay  the  mangoes  in  strong  brine  for 
three  days.  Drain  otf  the  brine,  and  freshen  in  pure  water 
twenty-four  hours.  Green  as  you  would  cucumbers,  and 
lay  in  cold  water  until  cold  and  firm.  Fill  with  the  stuf- 
fing ;  sew  up  the  slit,  or  tie  up  with  ])'ack thread ;  pack  in 
a  deep  stone  jar,  and  pour  scalding  vinegar  over  them. 
Repeat  this  process  three  times  more  at  intervals  of  two 
days,  then  tie  up  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

They  will  not  be  **  ripe  "  under  four  months,  but  are 
very  fine  when  they  are.     They  will  keep  several  years. 

Pepper  Mangoes.  >|« 

Are  put  up  in  the  same  way,  using  green  peppers  that 
are  full-grown,  but  not  tinged  with  red. 

They  are  very  good,  but  your  fingers  will  smart  after 
thrusting  them  into  the  peppers  to  pull  out  the  seeds.  For 
this  purpose  I  have  used,  first,  a  small  penknife,  to  cut  the 


>-  pounded  fine. 


PICEXE8.  483 

core  from  its  attacliment  to  the  stem-end  of  the  pepper, 
then  a  smooth  bit  of  stick,  to  pry  open  the  slit  in  the  side 
and  work  out  the  loose  core  or  bunch  of  seed.  By  the 
exercise  of  a  little  ingenuity  you  may  spare  yourself  all 
sufiering  from  this  cause.  Should  your  fingers  burn  badly, 
anoint  them  with  sweet-oil  and  wear  gloves  that  night. 
Cream  will  also  allay  the  smart. 

Pickled  Cabbage  (Yellaw), 

2  gallons  vinegar. 

1  pint  white  mustard-seed. 
4  oz.  ginger. 

3  oz.  pepper-corns. 

1  oz.  allspice. 

2  oz.  cloves. 
1  oz.  mace. 

1  oz.  nutmeg. 

2  oz.  turmeric. 
1  large  handful  of  garlic,  chopped. 

1  handful  scraped  horseradish. 

4  lbs.  sugar. 

2  oz.  celery  seed. 

3  lemons,  sliced  thin. 

Mix  all  and  set  in  the  sun  for  three  days. 

To  prepare  the  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters — leaving  off  the 
outer  and  green  leaves — and  put  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  brine. 
Cook  three  minutes.  Take  out,  drain,  and  cover  thickly  with 
salt.  Spread  out  in  the  sun  to  dry ;  then  shake  off  the  salt, 
and  cover  with  cold  vinegar  in  which  has  been  steeped  enough 
turmeric  to  color  it  well.  Leave  it  in  this  two  weeks,  to 
draw  out  the  salt  and  to  plump  the  cabbage.  They  are 
then  ready  to  pack  down  in  the  seasoned  vinegar.  Do  not 
use  under  six  weeks  or  two  months. 


484  OOHHON  8EK8E. 

Pickled  Cabbage  {Purple). 

Quarter  the  cabbage.  Lay  in  a  wooden  tray,  sprinkle 
thickly  with  salt,  and  set  in  the  cellar  until  next  day. 
Drain  off  the  brine,  wipe  diy,  lay  in  the  sun  two  hours, 
and  cover  with  cold  vinegar  for  twelve  hours.  Prepare 
the  pickle  by  seasoning  enough  vinegar  to  <x>ver  the  cab- 
bage  with  equal  quantities  of  mace,  cloves,  whole  white 
peppers ;  a  cup  of  sugar  to  every  gallon  of  vinegar,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  celery  seed  for  every  pint.  Pack  the  cal>- 
bage  in  a  stone  jar ;  boil  the  vinegar  and  sjtices  five  min- 
utes and  pour  on  hot.  Cover  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dry 
place. 

This  will  be  ripe  in  six  weeks. 

Pickled  Onions. 

Peel  the  onions,  which  should  be  fine  white  ones — not 
too  large.  Let  them  stand  in  strong  brine  for  four  days, 
changing  it  twice.  Heat  more  brine  to  a  boil,  throw  in  the 
onions,  and  boil  three  minutes.  Throw  them  at  once  into 
cold  water,  and  leave  them  there  four  hours.  Pack  in  jans, 
interspersing  with  whole  mace,  white  pepper-corns,  and 
cloves.  Fill  up  with  scalding  vinegar  in  which  you  have 
put  a  cupful  of  sugar  for  every  gallon.     Cork  while  hot. 

They  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  month,  but  will  be  better 
at  the  end  of  three  months. 

Qreen  Beans  and  Radish  Pods. 

Take  young  French  or  "  string  "  beans,  and  radish  pods 
just  before  they  change  color;  green  and  pickle  as  you  do 
cucumbers  and  gherkins. 


PICKLE^  486 

Nasturtium-seed.  »{< 

Take  the  green  seed  after  the  flower  has  dried  off.  Lay 
in  salt  and  water  two  days,  in  cold  water  one  day ;  pack 
in  bottles  and  cover  with  scalding  vinegar,  seasoned  with 
mace  and  white  peppei-coi-ns,  and  sweetened  slightly  with 
wliite  sugar.  Cork,  and  set  away  four  weeks  before  you 
use  them. 

They  are  an  excellent  substitute  for  capers. 

Pic  SLED  Butternuts  and  Walnuts.  ^ 

Gather  them  when  soft .  enough  to  be  pierced  by  a  pin. 
Lay  them  in  strong  brine  five  days,  changing  this  twice 
in  the  meantime.  Drain,  and  wipe  them  with  a  coarse 
cloth ;  pierce  each  by  running  a  large  needle  through  it, 
and  lay  in  cold  water  for  six  hours. 

To  each  gallon  of  vinegar  allow  a  cup  of  sugar,  three 
dozen  each  of  whole  cloves  and  black  pepper-corns,  half  as 
much  allspice,  and  a  dozen  blades  of  mace.  Boil  five 
minutes ;  pack  the  nuts  in  small  jars  and  pour  over  them 
'  scalding  hot.  Bepeat  this  twice  within  a  week ;  tie  up  and 
set  away. 

They  will  be  good  to  eat  in  a  month — and  very  good 
too. 

Pickled  CAULirLOWER.  ^ 

Pick  the  whitest  and  closest  bunches.  Cut  into  small 
sprays  or  clusters.  Plunge  into  a  kettle  of  scalding  brine 
and  boil  three  minutes.  Take  them  out,  lay  upon  a  sieve 
or  a  cloth,  sprinkle  thickly  with  salt,  and,  when  dry,  brush 
this  off.  Cover  with  cold  vinegar  for  two  days,  setting  the 
jar  in  the  sun.  Then  pack  carefully  in  glass  or  stoneware 
jars,  and  pour  over  them  scalding  vinegar  seasoned  thus: 

To  one  gallon  allow  a  cup  of  white  sugar,  a  dozen  blades 


486  OOHHON   8SNBE. 

of  mace,  a  tablespoonful  of  celery-seed,  two  dozen  'white 
popper-corns  and  some  bits  of  red  pepper  pods,  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  coriander-seed,  and  the  same  of  whole  mustard.  Boil 
five  minutes.  Repeat  the  scalding  once  a  week  for  three 
weeks ;  tie  up  and  set  away.  Keep  the  cauliflowers  under 
the  vinegar  by  putting  a  small  plate  on  top. 

SucED  Cucumber  Pickle.     (  Very  nice.) 

2  dozen  large  cucumbers,  sUoed,  and  boiled  in  vinegar 
enough  to  cover  them,  one  hour.  Set  aside  in  the 
hot  vinegar. 

To  each  gallon  of  cold  vinegar  allow — 
lb.  sugar, 
tablespoonful  of  cinnamon. 

"  ginger. 

"  black  pepper. 

"  celery-seed, 

teaspoonful  of  mace. 

"  allspice. 

**  cloves, 

tablespoonful  turmeric. 

'^  horseradish,  scraped. 

^^  garlic,  sliced. 

•}-  teaspoonful  Cayenne  pepper. 

Put  in  the  cuciunbers  and  stew  two  hours. 

The  pickle  will  be  ready  for  use  so  soon  as  it  is  cold. 

Pickled  Water-melon  Kind.     {Extremdy  nice,) 

Equal  weight  of  rind  and  white  sugar. 
\  ounce  white  ginger  to  a  gallon  of  pickle. 
1  pint  vinegar  to  eveiy  pound  of  sugar, 
1  tablespoonful  turmeric  to  a  gallon  of  pickle. 
A*  ace,  cloves,  and  cinnamon  to  tasto. 


PICKLES.  487 

Take  the  thickest  rind  yon  can  get,  pare  off  the  hard 
green  rind,  also  the  soft  inner  pulp.  Lay  the  pieces — ^narrow 
strips  or  fanciful  cuttings — in  brine  strong  enough  to  float 
an  egg,  and  let  them  remain  in  it  ten  days.      Then  soak  in 
fail*  water,  changing  it  every  day  for  ten  days.     Cover  them 
with  clear  water  in    a  preserving-kettle,  heat  slowly  and 
boil  five  minutes.     Take  them  out  and  plunge  instantly  into 
ice-water.     Leave  them  in  this  until  next  day.     Give  them 
another  gentle  boil  of  five  minutes  in  strong  alum-water. 
Simmer  carefully,  as  a  hard  boil  will  injure  them.     Change 
directly  from  the  alum  to  the  ice-water  again,  and  do  not 
dLiturb  them  for  four  hours.     After  a  third  boil  of  ^yq 
minutes,  let  them  remain  all  night  in  the  last  water  to  make 
them  tender.     Next  day  add  to  enough  water  to  cover  the 
rinds  sufficient  sugar  to  make  it  quite  sweet,  but  not  a  syrup. 
Simmer  the  rinds  in  this  ten  minutes,  throw  the  water  away, 
and  spread  them  upon  dishes  to  cool.      Meanwhile  prepare 
a  second  syrup,  allowing  sugar  equal  in  weight  to  the  rind, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  sliced  white  ginger  to  a  gallon  of 
the  pickle,  with  a  cup  of  water  for  every  two  pounds  of 
sugar.      When  the  sugar  is  melted  and  the  syrup  quite 
hot,  but  not  boiling,  put  in  the  rinds  and  simmer  until  they 
look  quite  clear.     Take  it  out,  spread  upon  the  dishes  again, 
while  you  add  to  the  syrup  a  pint  of  vinegar  for  every  pound 
of  the  sugar  you  have  put  in,  one  tablespoonful  of  turmeric 
to  a  gallon  of  pickle  ;  mace,  cloves,  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 
Boil  this   up,  return   the  rind  to  it,  and  simmer  fifteen 
minutes.     Put  up  in  glass  jars.     It  will  bo  fit  for  use  in  two 
weeks. 

This  is  a  very  handsome  and  delicious  pickle,  although 
it  may  seem  to  be  made  upon  the  principle  of  the  French- 
man's pebble-soup. 


488  COMMON   8RKSE. 

Green  Tomato  Soy.  •!• 

2  gallons  tomatoes,  green,  and  sliced  without  peeling. 
12  good-sized  onions,  also  sliced. 
2  quarts  vinegar. 

1  quart  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

2  "  ground  mustard. 

2  '^  black  pepper,  ground. 

1  tablespoonful  allspice. 
1  "  cloves. 

Mix  all  together  and  stew  until  tender,  stirring  often 
lest  they  should  scorch.     Put  up  in  small  glass  jars. 

This  is  a  most  useful  and  pleasant  sauce  for  almost 
every  kind  of  meat  and  fish. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle.     {  V^rf/  good.)  •!• 

7  lbs.  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced. 

3^  "    sugar. 

1  oz.  cinnamon  and  maco  mixed. 

1  "    cloves. 

1  quart  of  vinegar. 

Mix  all  together  and  stew  hour. 

Ripe  Tomato  Pickle.    {JVo.  2.) 

2  gallons  tomatoes,  peeled,  but  not  sliced. 

1  pint  vinegar. 

2  lbs.  sugar. 

Mace,  nutmeg,  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

Put  all  on  together,  heat  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  simmer 
jono  hour.     Put  up  in  glass  jars. 


PI0ELE8.  489 

Sweet    Pickle — Plums,    Peabb,    Peaches,    or    other 

Fruits.  »{< 

7  lbs.  fruit,  pared. 
4    "    white  sugar. 
1  pint  strong  vinegar. 
Mace,  cinnamon,  and  cloves. 

Pare  peaches  and  pears ;  prick  plums  and  damsons,  to- 
matoes, "globes"  or  husk-tomatoes  (otherwise  known  as 
ground-plums),  put  into  the  kettle  with  alternate  layers  of 
sugar.  Heat  slowly  to  a  boil ;  add  the  vinegar  and  spice ; 
boil  five  minutes;  take  out  the  fruit  with  a  perforated 
skimmer  and  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool.  Boil  the  syrup 
thick ;  pack  the  fruit  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  the  syrup  on 
boiling  hot. 

£xamine  every  few  days  for  the  first  month,  and  should 
it  show  signs  of  fermenting  set  the  jars  (imcovered)  in  a 
kettle  of  water,  and  heat  until  the  contents  are  scald- 
ing. 

Husk-toioatoes — a  fruit  which  looks  like  a  hybrid  be- 
tween the  tDmato  and  plum — are  particularly  nice  put  up 
in  this  way. 

Pickled  Peaches. 

10  lbs.  fruit — pared. 

4J"    sugar. 

1  quart  vinegar. 
Mace,  cinnamon,  and  cloves  to  taste. 

Lay  the  peaches  in  the  sugar  for  an  hour;  drain  off 
every  drop  of  syrup,  and  put  over  the  fire  with  about  a 
cup  of  water.  Boil  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise.  Skim ; 
put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  five  minutes.  Take  out  the 
peaches  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  spread  upon  dishes 
to  cool.     Add  the  vinegpir  and  spioes  to  the  syrup.    Boil 

21* 


490  OOMMON  BBNBJL 

fifteen  minutes  longer,  and  pour  over  the  fruit  in  gl 
jars. 

Pickled  Peaches  {unpedect). 

Rub  the  fur  off  with  a  coarse  doth,  and  prick  each 
peach  with  a  fork*     Heat  in  jiLst  enough  water  to  cover 
them  until  they  almost  boil ;  take  them  out,  and  add  to  the 
water  sugar  in  the  following  proportions : — 
For  every  7  lbs,  of  fruit 

3  lbs.  of  sugar. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes ;  skim,  and  add — 
3  pints  of  vinegar. 

1  tablespoonful  (each)  of  allspice,  mace,  and  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoonful  celery-seed. 
1  "  cloves. 

Put  the  spices  in  thin  muslin  bags.  Boil  all  together 
ten  minutes,  then  put  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  until  they  can 
be  pierced  with  a  straw.  Take  out  the  fruit  with  a  skim- 
mer, and  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool.  Boil  the  syrup  until 
thick,  pack  the  peaches  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  this  over 
them  scalding  hot. 

You  may  pickle  pears  in  the  same  way  without  peeling. 

Pickled  Cherries.  •{< 

Morella,  or  large  red  tart  cherries,  as  fresh  as  you  can 
get  them.  To  every  quart  allow  a  large  cup  of  vinegar 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  with  a  dozen  whole  cloves 
and  half  a  dozen  blades  of  mace. 

Put  the  vinegar  and  sugar  dn  to  heat  with  the  spices. 
Boil  five  minutes ;  turn  out  into  a  covered  stoneware  ves- 
sel, cover,  and  let  it  get  perfectly  cold.  Sti-ain  out  the 
spices,  fill  small  jars  three-quarters  of  the  way  to  the  top 
with  fruit,  and  pour  the  cold  vinegar  over  them.  Cork  or 
cover  tightly.     Leave  the  stems  on  the  cherries. 


DBINKS.    •  491 

PiCKLETTE.  tj^ 

4  large  crisp  cabbages,  chopped  fine. 

1  quart  onions,  chopped  fine. 

2  quarts  of  vinegar,  or  enough  to  cover  the  cabbage. 
2  lbs.  brown  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 


2 

a 

black  pepper. 

2 

cc 

cinnamon. 

2 

C( 

turmeric 

2 

u 

celery-seed. 

1 

(C 

allspice. 

1 

a 

mace. 

1 

(( 

alum,  pulverized. 

Pack  the  cabbage  and  onions  in  alternate  layers,  with  a 
little  salt  between  them.  Let  them  stand  until  next  day. 
Then  scald  the  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices  together,  and  pour 
over  the  cabbage  and  onion.  Do  this  three  mornings  in  suc- 
cession. On  the  fourth,  put  all  together  over  the  fire  and 
heat  to  a  boil.  Let  them  boil  five  minutes.  When  cold, 
pack  in  small  jars. 

It  is  fit  for  use  as  soon  as  cool,  but  keeps  well. 


DRINKS. 

COFITE. 


Never  buy  ground  coffee  if  you  can  get  tmy  other.  The 
mere  fact  that  after  they  have  gone  to  the  expense  of  the 
machinery  and  labor  requisite  for  grinding  it,  the  manufac- 
turers can  sell  it  cheaper  per  pound  than  grocers  can  the 
whole  grains,  roasted  or  raw,  should  convince  every  sensible 
person  that  it  is  adulterated  with  other  and  less  expensive 


493  COMMON  SENSE. 

substances.  Be  that  as  it  may,  co£fee  loses  its  aroma  so 
rapidly  after  it  is  ground  that  it  is  worth  your  while  to 
buy  it  whole,  either  in  small  quantities  freshly  roasted,  or 
raw,  and  roast  it  yourself.  You  can  roast  in  a  pan  in  the 
oven,  stirring  eveiy  few  minutes,  or  in  the  same  upon  the 
top  of  the  range.  Stir  often  and  roast  quickly  to  a  bright 
bro\vn — not  a  dull  black.  While  still  hot,  beat  up  the  white 
of  au  egg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and  stir  up 
well  with  it.  This  will  tend  to  preserve  the  flavor.  Grind 
just  enough  at  a  time  for  a  single  making. 

To  MAKE  Coffee  {hailed). 

1  full  coffee-cup  (^  pint)  of  ground  coffee. 
1  quart  of  boiling  water. 
White  of  an  egg,  and  crushed  shell  of  same. 
^  cup  of  cold  water  to  settle  it. 

Stir  up  the  eggshell  and  the  white  (beaten)  with  the 
coffee,  and  a  very  little  cold  water,  and  mix  gradually  with 
the  boiling  water  in  the  coffee-boiler.  Stir  from  the  sides 
and  top  as  it  boils  up.  Boil  pretty  fast  twelve  minutes ; 
pour  in  the  cold  water  and  take  from  the  flre,  setting 
gently  upon  the  hearth  to  settle.  In  five  minutes,  pour  it 
off  carefully  into  your  silver,  china,  or  Britannia  coffee-pot, 
which  should  be  previously  well  scalded. 

Send  to  table  hot. 

To  Make  Coffee  without  Boiling. 

There  are  so  many  patent  coffee-pots  for  this  purpose, 
and  the  directions  sold  with  these  are  so  minute,  that  I 
need  give  only  a  few  general  rules  here.  Allow  rather  more 
coffee  to  a  given  quantity  of  water  than  if  it  were  to  be 
boiled,  and  have  it  ground  very  fine.  Put  the  coffee  in  the 
uppermost  compartment,  pour  on  the  water  very  slowly 


j>KmKB.  493 

until  the  fine  coffee  is  saturated,  then  more  rapidly.  The 
water  should  be  boiling.  Shut  down  the  top,  and  the  coffee 
ought  to  be  ready  when  it  has  gone  through  the  double  or 
treble  set  of  strainers.  Should  it  not  be  strong  enough, 
run  it  through  again. 

CAFfi  AU  Lait. 

1  pint  very  strong-made  coffee — fresh  and  hot. 
1    ^^      boiling  nxilk. 

The  coffee  should  be  poured  off  the  grounds  through  a 
fine  strainer  (thin  muslin  is  the  best  material)  into  the 
table  coffee-pot.  Add  the  milk,  and  set  the  pot  where  it  will 
keep  hot  for  five  minutes  before  pouring  it  out. 

Tea. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  tea  to   one  large  cupful  of  boiling 
water. 

Scald  the  teapot  well,  put  in  the  tea,  and,  covering  close^ 
set  it  on  the  stove  or  range  one  minute  to  warm ;  pour  on 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it  well,  and  let  it  stand  ten 
minutes  to  "draw."  Keep  the  lid  of  the  pot  shut,  and  set 
in  a  warm  place,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Fill  up  with  as 
much  boiling  water  as  you  will  need,  and  send  hot  to  the 
table,  after  pouring  into  a  heated  china  or  silver  pot. 

The  bane  of  tea  in  many  households  is  unboiled  water. 
It  can  never  extract  the  flavor  as  it  shoidd,  although  it 
steep  for  hours.  The  kettle  should  not  only  steam,  but 
bubble  and  puff  in  a  hard  boil  before  you  add  water  from 
it  to  the  tea-leaves. 

Boiling  after  the  tea  is  made,  injures  the  flavor,  either 
-    by  deadening  or  making  it  rank  and  "  herby." 


494  COMMON   8EN6E. 

Chocolate.  •{• 

6  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate  to  each  pint  of  water. 
As  much  milk  as  you  have  water. 
Sweeten  to  taste. 

Put  on  the  water  boiling  hot.  Rub  the  chocolate  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  water.  Boil 
twenty  minutes ;  add  the  milk  and  boil  ten  minutes  more, 
stirring  frequently.  You  can  sweeten  upon  the  fire  or  in 
the  cups. 

Cocoa  Nibs,  or  Shells.  4* 

1  quart  of  boiling  water. 

2  ozs.  of  cocoa  nibs. 
1  quart  fresh  milk. 

Wet  the  shells  or  nibs  up  with  a  little  cold  water ;  add 
to  the  boiling,  and  cook  one  hour  and  a  half ;  strain,  put  in 
the  milk,  let  it  heat  almost  to  boiling,  and  take  from  the 
fire. 

This  is  excellent  for  invalids. 

Prepared  Cocoa.  ^J^ 

1  quart  of  water,  boiling. 

2  ozs.  prepared  cocoa — Baker's  is  best. 
1  quart  of  milk. 

Make  as  you  do  chocolate — only  boil  nearly  an  hour 
before  you  add  the  milk,  afterward  heating  altriost  to  boil- 
ing.    Sweeten  to  taste. 

Milk  Tea  (for  Children). 

1  pint  fresh  milk  and  the  same  of  boiling  water.  Sweeten 
to  taste. 


BBINK8.  495 

Baspbebry  Boyal. 

4  quarts  ripe  berries. 
1  quart  best  cider  vinegar. 
1  lb.  white  sugar. 
1  pint  £ne  brandy. 

Put  the  berries  in  a  stone  jar,  pour  the  vinegar  over 
them,  add  the  sugar,  and  pound  the  berries  to  a  paste  with 
a  wooden  pestle^  or  mash  with  a  spoon.  Let  them  stand  in 
the  sun  four  hours ;  strain  and  squeeze  out  all  the  juice, 
and  put  in  the  brandy.  Seal  up  in  bottles;  lay  them  on 
their  sides  in  the  cellar,  and  cover  with  sawdust. 

Stir  two  tablespoonfuls  into  a  tumbler  of  ice-water  when 
you  wish  to  use  it. 

Baspberry  Yinegar.  »{• 

Put  the  raspberries  into  a  stone  vessel  and  mash  them 
to  a  pulp.  Add  cider-vinegar — no  specious  imitation,  but 
the  genuine  article — enough  to  cover  it  well.  Stand  in  the 
sun  twelve  hours,  and  all  night  in  the  cellar.  Stir  up  well 
occasionally  during  this  time.  Strain,  and  put  as  many  fresh 
berries  in  the  jar  as  you  took  out;  pour  the  strained  vinegar 
over  them ;  mash  and  set  in  the  sun  all  day.  Strain  a  sec- 
ond time  next  day.     To  each  quart  of  this  juice  allow 

« 

1  pint  of  water. 

5  lbs.  of  sugar  (best  white)  for  every  3  pints  of  this 
liquid,  juice  and  water  mingled. 

Place  over  a  gentle  fire  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Heat  slowly  to  boiling,  skimming  oflf  the  scum; 
and  as  soon  as  it  fairly  boils  take  off  and  strain.  Bottle 
while  warm,  and  seal  the  corks  with  sealing-wax,  or  bees'- 
wox  and  rosin. 

A  most  refreshing  and  plea  ant  drink. 


496  OOMHON  8ENBB. 

BlACKBERBY  YlNEQAB 

Is  made  in  the  same  manner  aa  raspberxy,  allowing   5^ 
lbs.  sugar  to  3  pints  of  juice  and  water. 

Blackberry  Cordial. 

1  quart  of  blackberry  juice. 

1  lb.  White  sugar. 

^  lb.  grated  nutmeg. 

^  oz.  powdered  cinnamon. 

^  oz.  allspice. 

^  oz.  doves. 

1  pint  best  brandy. 

Tie  the  spices  in  thin  muslin  baga;  boil  juice,  sugar,  and 
spices  together  fifteen  minutes,  skimming  well;  add  the 
brandy ;  set  aside  in  a  closely  covered  vessel  to  cool.  When 
perfectly  cold,  strain  out  the  spices,  and  bottle,  sealing  the 
corks. 

Elderberry  Wine. 

8  quarts  of  berries. 

4  quarts  of  boiling  water  poured  over  the  berries. 

Let  it  stand  twelve  hours,  stirring  now  and  then.  Strain 
well,  pressing  out  all  the  juice.     Add 

3  lbs.  of  sugar  to  4  quarts  of  juice. 
1  oz.  powdered  cinnamon. 
^  oz.  powdered  cloves. 

Boil  five  minutes,  and  set  away  to  ferment  in  a  stone 
jar,  with  a  doth  thrown  lightly  over  it.  When  it  has  done 
fermenting,  rack  it  off  carefully,  not  to  disturb  the  lees. 
Bottle  and  cork  down  well. 


DBINKS.  497 

Cranberry  Wine. 

Mash  ripe  berries  to  a  pulp ;  put  into  a  stone  jar. 
Add  1  quart  of  water  to  2  quarts  of  benies. 

Stir  well  and  let  it  stand  two  days.  Strain  through  a 
double  flannel  bag ;  mash  a  second  supply  of  hemes,  equal 
in  quantity  to  the  first,  and  cover  with  this  liquid.  Steep 
two  days  more ;  strain ;  add 

1  lb.  sugar  for  3  quarts  of  liquor, 

and  boil  five  minutes.     Let  it  ferment  in  lightly  covered 
jars ;  rack  ofi*  and  bottle. 

This  is  said  to  be  very  good  for  scrofula. 

Strawberry  Wine. 

3  quarts  of  strawberries,  mashed  and  strained.     To  the 

juice  (there  shoidd  be  about  a  quart,  if  the  berries  are  ripe 

and  fresh)  add 

1  quart  of  water. 

1  lb.  of  sugar. 

Stir  up  well  and  ferment  in  a  clean,  sweet  cask,  leaving 
the  bung  out.  When  the  working  subsides  close  tightly,  or 
rack  off  into  bottles. 

This  is  said  by  those  who  have  tasted  it  to  be  very  good. 

Currant  Wine. 

Pick,  stem,  mash,  and  strain  the  currants,  which  should 

be  very  ripe. 

To  1  quart  of  juice  add 

f  lb.  white  sugar. 

^  pint  of  water. 

Stir  all  together  long  and  well ;  put  into  a  clean  cask, 
leaving  out  the  bung,  and  covering  the  whole  with  a  bit 


408  COMMON   SENSE. 

of  lace  or  mosquito  net.     Let  it  ferment  about  four  weeks — 
rack  off  when  it  is  quite  still,  and  bottle. 

Jamaica  Ginger-beer. 

1  bottle  Jamaica  Ginger  Extract 
1  oz.  cn»am-tai'tar. 
6  quarts  water. 
1  lb.  sugar. 

Stir  until  the  sugar  is  melted,  then  put  in  the  grated 
))cel  of  a  lemon,  and  heat  until  blood-warm.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  brewers'  yeast;  stir  well  and  bottle,  wiring 
down  the  corks.     It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  four  days. 

This  is  a  refreshing  and  healthful  beverage  mixed  witix 
founded  ice  in  hot  weather. 

Raisin  Wine. 

1  lb.  wliite  sugar. 

2  lbs.  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  lemon — all  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peeL 

2  gallons  boiling  water. 

Put  all  into  a  stone  jar,  and  stir  every  day  for  a  week. 
Strain,  then,  and  bottle  it.  It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  ten 
days. 

Lemonade  or  Sherbert. 

3  lemons  to  a  quart  of  water. 
6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Pare  the  yellow  |>eel  from  the  lemons,  and,  unless  you 
mean  to  use  the  sherbert  immediately,  leave  it  out.  It 
gives  a  bitter  taste  to  the  sugar  if  left  long  in  it.  Slice 
and  squeeze  the  lemons  upon  the  sugar,  add  a  very  little 
water,  and  let  them  stand  fifteen  minutes.  Then  fill  up 
with  water ;  ice  well,  stir,  and  pour  out. 


DBmKS.  499 

Orangeade 

Is   made   in  the   same   maimer,  substituting  oranges  for 
lemons. 

Strawberry  Sherbert.     {Ddicious.) 

1  quart  of  strawberries. 

3  pints  of  water. 

1  lemon — the  juice  only. 

1  tablespoonful  orange-flower  water. 

J  lb.  white  sugar. 

The  strawberries  should  be  fresh  and  ripe.  Crush  to  a 
smooth  paste;  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  (except 
the  sugar),  and  let  it  stand  three  hours.  Strain  over  the 
sugar,  squeezing  the  cloth  hard ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved ;  strain  again  and  set  in  ice  for  two  hours  or  more 
before  you  use  it. 

Regent's  Punch.     (JFlne,) 

1  lb.  loaf-sugar  or  rock  candy. 

1  large  cup  strong  black  tea — (made). 

3  wine-glasses  of  brandy. 

3     "  «  rum. 

1  bottle  champagne. 

2  oranges — juice  only. 

3  lemons —    "  .    '* 
1  large  lump  of  ice. 

This  receipt  was  given  me  by  a  gentleman  of  the  old 
school,  a  connoisseur  in  the  matter  of  beverages  as  of 
cookery.  **Tell  your  readers,"  he  writes,  "that  better 
punch  was  never  brewed."  I  give  receipt  and  message 
together. 


600  COMMON   BENBB. 

KoMAK  Punch. 

3  coffee  cups  of  lemonade— (strong  and  sweet). 
1  glass  champagne. 

1  "     mm. 

2  oranges — juice  only. 

2  eggs — whites  only — well  whipped. 

^  lb.  powdei*ed  sugar,  beaten  into  the  stiffened  whites. 

You  must  ice  abundantly — or,  if  you  prefer,  freeze. 

Sherry  Cobbler. 

Several  slices  of  pineapple,  cut  in  quarters. 

A  lemon,  sliced  thin. 

An  orange,         " 

^  cup  of  powdered  sugar. 

1  tumbler  of  shettry  wine. 

Ice-water. 

Pounded  ice. 

Take  a  wide-mouthed  quart-pitcher  and  lay  the  sliced 
fniit  in  order  in  the  bottom,  sprinkling  sugar  and  pounded 
ice  between  the  layers.  Cover  with  sugar  and  ice,  and  let 
all  stand  together  five  minutes.  Add  then  two  tumblers  of 
water  and  all  the  sugar,  and  stir  well  to  dissolve  this.  Fill 
the  pitcher  nearly  full  of  pounded  ice,  pour  in  the  wine, 
and  stir  up  from  the  bottom  until  the  ingredients  are 
thoroughly  mixed.  In  pouring  it  out  put  a  slice  of  each 
kind  of  fruit  in  each  goblet  befoi*e  adding  the  liquid. 

It  is  best  sucked  through  a  straw  or  glass  tube. 

Nectar.  ►J^ 

Make  as  above,  substituting  a  little  rose-water  for  the 
pineapple,  and  squeezing  out  the  juice  of  the  orange  and 


DBINK6.  501 

lemon,  instead  of  putting  in  the  slices.     Sprinkle  nutmeg 
on  the  top. 

This  forms  a  delicious  and  refreshing  drink  for  in- 
valids. 

Claret  Punch. 

1  bottle  of  claret. 

J  the  quantity  of  ice-water. 

2  lemons,  sliced. 

i  cup  powdered  sugar. 

Cover  the  sliced  lemon  with  sugar  and  let  it  stand  ten 
minutes.  Add  the  water ;  stir  hard  for  a  whole  minute,  and 
pour  in  the  wine.  Put  pounded  ice  in  each  glass  before 
filling  with  the  mixture. 

Egg  Nogg.  4* 

6  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very 

stiff. 
1  quart  rich  milk, 
^cup  of  sugar. 
i  pint  best  brandy. 
Flavor  with  nutmeg. 

Stir  the  yolks  into  the  milk  with  the  sugar,  which  should 
first  be  beaten  with  the  yolks.  Next  comes  the  brandy. 
Lastly  whip  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 

Chebry  Bounce. 

4  lbs.  of  sour  and  the  same  quantity  of  sweet  cherries. 
2^  lbs.  white  sugar. 
1  gallon  best  whiskey. 

Crush  the  cherries  to  pieces  by  pounding  in  a  deep 
wooden  vessel  with  a  smooth  billet  of  wood.  Beat  hard 
enough  to  crack  all  the  stones.  Put  into  a  deep  stone  jar; 
mix  in  the  sugar  well,  and  cover  with  the  whiskey.     Shake 


502  COMMON   SENSE. 

around  briskly  and  turn  into  a  demijohn.      Cork  tightly 
and  let  it  stand  a  month,  shaking  it  every  day,  and  another 
month  without  touching  it.     Then  stimn  off  and  bottle. 
It  is  better  a  year  than  six  months  old. 

If  the  Maltese  cross  appears  but  seldom  in  the  section 
devoted  to  drinks,  it  is  because  most  of  my  information 
respecting  their  manufacture  is  second-hand.  In  my  own 
family  they  are  so  little  used,  except  in  sickness,  that  I 
should  not  dare  to  teach  others,  upon  my  own  authority, 
how  to  prepare  them.  Indeed,  the  temptation  I  felt  to  omit 
many  of  them  reminded  me  of  a  remark  made,  introductory 
of  preserves,  by  one  of  the  "  Complete  Housewives,"  who, 
all  tive  together,  drove  me  to  the  verge  of  an  attack  of  con- 
gestion of  the  brain,  before  I  had  been  a  housekeeper  for  a 
week.  Said  this  judicious  lady  : — **  Preserves  of  all  kinds 
are  expensive  and  indigestible,  and  therefore  poisonous. 
TJierefore  " — again — "  I  shall  not  give  directions  for  their 
manufacture,  except  to  remark  that  barberries  stewed  in 
molasses  are  economical,  and  a  degree  less  hurtful  than 
most  other's  of  that  class  of  compounds." 

Then  I  reflected  that  I  might,  upon  the  same  principle, 
exclude  all  receipts  in  which  cocoanut  is  used,  because  it  is 
rank  poison  to  me ;  while  a  dear  friend  of  mine  would  as 
soon  touch  arsenic  as  an  egg.  A  large  majority  of  the 
beverages  I  have  named  are  highly  medicinal,  and  deserve 
a  place  in  the  housekeeper's  calendar  on  that  account. 
Many,  so  far  from  being  hurtful,  are  beneficial  to  a  weak 
stomach  or  a  system  suffering  \mder  general  debility. 
None  which  contain  alcohol  in  any  shape  sJiotdd  be  used 
daily ^  miich  less  semi-  or  tri-daily  by  a  well  person. 

This  principle  reduced  to  practice  would  prove  the  pre- 
ventive oimce  which  would  cure,  all  over  the  land,  the  need 
for  Temperance  Societies  and  Inebriate  Asylums. 


THE   BICK-BOOM.  503 

THE  SICK-ROOM. 

The  sick-chamber  should  be  the  most  quiet  and  cheerful 
in  the  house — a  sacred  isle  past  which  the  waves  of  domes- 
tic toil  and  solicitude  glide  silently.  This  is  not  an  easy 
rule  to  obey.  Whoever  the  invalid  may  be,  whether  the 
mother,  father,  or  the  sweet  youngling  of  the  flock,  the 
foundations  of  the  household  seem  thrown  out  of  course 
while  the  sickness  lasts.  You  may  have  good  servants  and 
kind  friends  to  aid  you,  but  the  hitch  in  the  machinery  is 
not  to  be  smoothed  out  by  their  efforts.  The  irregulaiity 
does  not  annoy  you  :  you  do  not  notice  it  if  the  attack  be 
severe  or  dangerous.  All  other  thoughts  are  swallowed  up 
in  the  all-absorbing,  ever-present  alarm.  You  count  noth- 
ing an  inconvenience  that  can  bring  present  relief,  or  possi- 
ble healing  to  the  beloved  one ;  disdain  for  yourself  rest  or 
ease  while  the  shadow  hangs  above  the  pillow  cru.shed  by 
the  helpless  head.  But  when  it  passes,  when  the  first 
transport  of  thankfulness  has  subsided  into  an  abiding  sense 
of  safety,  the  mind  swings  back  to  the  accustomed  pivot, 
and  your  eyes  seem  to  be  suddenly  unbound.  You  find,  with 
dismay,  that  the  children  have  run  wild,  and  the  comfort  of 
the  whole  family  been  neglected  during  your  confinement  to 
the  post  of  most  urgent  duty;  with  displeasure,  that  the 
servants  have,  as  you  consider,  taken  advantage  of  your 
situation  to  omit  this  task,  and  to  slur  over  that; — n 
fine,  that  nothing  has  been  done  well,  and  so  many  things 
left  altogether  undone,  that  you  are  "  worried  out  of  your 
senses'^ — a  phrase  that  too  often  signifies,  out  of  your 
tempei. 

And  it  is  just  at  this  juncture — when  you  are  called  to 
fifty  points  of  attention  and  labor  at  once,  and  are  on  the 
verge  of  despair  at  the  conglomeration  worse  conglomerated 
arising  before  you  ;  fidgetting  to  pick  up  dropped  stitches  in 


504  COMMON  8EN8E. 

the  web  you  were  wont  to  keep  so  even — that  the  invalid 
becomes  most  exacting.  "  Unreasonable,"  you  name  it  to 
yourself,  even  though  it  be  John  himself  who  calls  upon 
you  every  third  minute  for  some  little  office  of  loving-kind- 
ness ;  who  wants  to  be  amused  and  fed  and  petted,  and 
made  generally  comfortable  as  if  he  were  a  six-months-old 
baby  ;  who  never  remembers  that  you  must  be  wearied  out 
with  watching  and  anxiety,  and  that  everything  below- 
stairs  is  going  to  destruction  for  the  want  of  a  balance- 
wheel.  The  better  he  loves  you  the  more  apt  is  he  to  fancy 
that  nobody  but  you  can  do  anything  for  him ;  the  more 
certain  to  crave  something  which  no  one  else  knows  how  to 
prepare.  And  when  you  have  strauicd  muscle  and  patience 
a  Utile  further  to  get  it  ready,,  and  with  prudent  foresight 
made  enough  to  last  for  several  meals,  it  is  more  than 
probable  that  his  fickle  taste  will  suggest  something  entire- 
ly different  for  "  next  time."  "  Just  for  a  change,  you 
know,  dear.  One  gets  so  tired  of  eating  the  same  thing  so 
often !  " 

He  might  be  more  considerate — less  childish — ^you 
think,  turning  away  that  he  may  not  see  your  change  of 
countenance.  When  you  have  taken  so  much  |>ains  to 
suit  him  exactly  !  It  is  harder  yet  when  he  refuses  to 
do  more  than  taste  the  delicacy  you  hoped  would  tempt 
him. 

**  It  is  very  nice,  I  suppose,  my  love,"  says  the  poor 
fellow,  with  the  air  of  a  martyr.  '*  But  it  does  not  taste 
light,  somehow.  Maybe  the  children  can  dispose  of  it.  If 
I  had  a  lemon  icp,  or  some  wine  jelly  such  as  my  mother 
used  to  make,  I  am  sure  I  could  relish  it.  I  always  did 
detest  sick  peoples'  diet !  " 

If  he  IB  very  much  shaken  «ks  to  nerves,  he  will  be  likely 
to  say,  **  messes. ^"^ 

^^  I  am  fairly  wild  !  "  said  a  loving  wife  and  mother,  and 


THE  BICK-BOOM.  505 

thrifty  housekeeper,  to  me  one  daj,  when  I  called  to  see 

her.  I 

She  had  just  nursed  her  husband  and  three  children 
through  the  influenza.     All  had  been  down  with  it  at  once.  j 

That  form  of  demoniacal  possession  is  generally  conducted 
upon  the  wholesale  principle.  One  of  her  servants  had 
left  in  disgust  at  the  increased  pressure  of-  work ;  the 
weather  was  rainy,  blowy,  raw ;  the  streets  were  muddy, 
and  there  was  no  such  thing  as  keeping  steps  and  halls 
clean,  while  the  four  invalids  were  cross  as  only  tootuache 
or  influenza  can  make  human  beings. 

**  I  am  fairly  wild ! "  said  the  worthy  creature,  with 
tears  in  her  eyes.  '^  I  cannot  snatch  a  minute,  from  morn- 
ing until  night,  to  put  things  straight,  and  yet  I  am  almost 
tired  to  death !  I  was  saying  to  myself  as  you  came  in,  that 
I  wouldn't  try  any  longer.  I  would  just  sit  still  until  the 
dirt  was  piled  up  to  my  chin,  and  then  Iv}ovld  get  upon  the 
tahUI'' 

How  often  I  have  thought  of  her  odd  speech  since ! 
sometimes  with  a  smile — more  frequently  with  a  sigh.  But 
with  all  my  pity  for  the  nurse  and  housekeeper,  I  cannot 
conceal  from  myself — I  would  not  forget,  or  let  you  for- 
get for  a  moment — the  truth  that  the  sick  one  is  the  greater 
sufferer.  It  is  never  pleasant  to  be  laid  upon  the  shelf. 
The  resting-place — ^falsely  so-called — is  hard  and  narrow 
and  uneven  enough,  even  when  the  tramp  of  the  outer  world 
does  not  jar  the  sore  and  jaded  frame ;  when  there  is  no  ap- 
parent need  for  the  sick  person  to  be  upon  his  feet,  and  for 
aught  that  others  can  see,  or  he  can  say,  he  might  just  as 
well  stay  where  he  is  for  a  month  or  two.  But  when,  the 
rack  of  paiu  having  been  removed,  the  dulled  perceptions 
of  the  mind  re-awaken  to  sensitiveness,  an  1  there  com'?8  to 
his  ear  the  bugle-call  of  duty — sharp,  imperative  ; — when 
every  idle  moment  speaks  to  him  of  a  slain  opportunity, 

23 


606  OOHMON  BKETSS. 

and  the  no  longer  Btrong  man  shakes  his  fetters  with  piteous 
cries  against  fate,  do  not  despise  or  be  impatient  with  him« 
He  is  feverish  and  inconsiderate  and  capricious  because  he 
is  not  himself.  You  see  only  the  poor  wreck  left  by  the 
demon  as  he  tore  his  way  out  of  him  at  the  Divine  com- 
mand. Gather  it  up  lovingly  in  your  arms,  and  nui-se  it 
back  to  strength  and  comeliness.  The  sick  should  always 
be  the  chief  object  of  thought  and  care  with  all  in  the 
household.  If  need  be,  let  the  dirt  lie  chin-deep  every- 
where else,  so  long  as  it  is  kept  out  of  that  one  room. 
There  be  jealous  in  your  care  that  nothing  offends  sight 
and  smell. 

There  should  be  no  smell  in  a  sick-chamber.  To  avoid 
this,  let  in  the  air  freely  and  often.  Cologne-water  will 
not  dispel  a  foul  odor,  while  disinfectants  are  noisome  in 
themselves.  Bathe  the  patient  as  frequently  and  thor- 
oughly as  prudence  will  allow,  and  change  his  clothing, 
with  the  bed- linen,  every  day.  Do  not  keep  the  medicines 
where  he  can  see  them,  nor  ever  let  him  witness  the  mix- 
ing of  that  which  he  is  to  swallow.  So  soon  as  his  meals 
are  over,  remove  every  vestige  of  them  from  the  room. 
Even  a  soiled  spoon,  lying  on  table  or  bureau,  may  offend 
his  fastidious  appetite.  Cover  the  stand  or  waiter  from 
which  he  eats  with  a  spotless  napkin,  and  serve  his  food  in 
your  daintiest  ware. 

My  heart  softens  almost  to  tearfulness  when  I  recall  the 
hours,  days,  weeks,  I  have  myself  spent  in  the  chamber  of 
languishing,  and  the  ingenuity  of  tenderness  that,  from  my 
babyhood,  has  striven  to  cheat  the  imprisonment  of  weaii- 
ness,  and  make  me  forget  pain  and  uselessness.  The  pretty 
surprises  daily  invented  for  my  entertainment ;  the  exceed- 
ing nicety  with  which  they  were  set  out  before  me ;  the 
Joving  words  that  nounshed  my  spirit  when  the  body  was 
faint  unto  death, — ^these  are  events,  not  slight  incidents,  in 


THE   SICK-ROOM.  607 

the  book  of  memory.  When  I  cease  to  be  grateful  for  them, 
or  to  learn  from  them  how  to  minister  unto  others  of  the 
like  consolation,  may  my  heart  forget  to  beat,  my  right  hand 
lose  her  cunning ! 

Do  not  ask  your  charge  what  he  would  like  to  eat  to- 
day. He  will,  of  a  surety,  sicken  with  the  effort  at  selection, 
and  say,  "  Nothing  I  "  But  watch  attentively  for  the  slight- 
est intimation  of  a  desire  for  any  particular  delicacy,  and  if 
you  are  assured  that  it  cannot  hurt  him,  procure  it,  if  you 
can,  without  letting  him  guess  at  your  intention.  Feed  him 
lightly  and  often,  never  bringing  more  into  his  sight  than 
he  may  safely  eat.  A  big  bowl  of  broth  or  jelly  will  either 
tempt  him  to  imprudence,  or  discourage  him.  '^  Am  I  to 
be  burdened  with  ail  that  ?  "  cries  the  afi&ighted  stomach, 
and  will  have  none  of  it.  While  he  is  very  weak,  feed  him 
with  your  own  hand,  playfully,  as  you  would  a  child,  talk- 
ing cheerily  of  something  besides  his  food,  and  coaxing  him 
into  taking  the  needed  nutriment  as  only  a  wife  and  mother 
can,  or  as  nobody  but  John  could  beguile  you  to  effort  in 
the  same  direction. 

Study  all  pleasant  and  soothing  arts  to  while  away  the 
time,  and  keep  worry  of  every  kind  away  from  him.  A 
trifle  at  which  you  can  laugh  will  be  a  burden  to  the  en- 
feebled mind  and  body,  and  he  has  nothing  to  do  but  lie 
still  and  roll  it  over  until  it  swells  into  a  mountain.  When 
he  can  be  removed  without  danger,  let  him  have  his  meals 
in  another  room,  changing  the  air  of  each  when  he  is  not 
in  it.  Every  one  who  has  suffered  from  long  sickness 
knows  the  peculiar  loathing  attendant  upon  the  idea  that  all 
food  is  tainted  with  the  atmosphere  of  the  chamber  in  which 
it  is  served,  and  if  eaten  in  bed,  tastes  of  the  mattress  and 
pillows.  The  room  and  all  in  it  may  be  clean,  fresh,  and 
sweet,  but  the  fancy  cannot  be  dismissed.  And  it  is  wiser 
to  humor  than  to  reason  with  most  sick  fancies. 


608  CX)10COK  8EK8S. 

A  hired  nune  in  a  useful,  often  a  necessaiy  thing,  but 
while. you  are  upon  your  feet,  and  mistress  of  your  own 
house,  delegate  to  no  one  the  precious  task  of  catering  for 
the  dear  sufferer.  It  is  an  art  in  itself.  I  hope  a  practical 
knowledge  of  it  will  be  taught  in  Women^s  Me<iical  Colleges, 
when  they  are  an  established  *^  institution  ^^  ^ith  us. 

I  wish  it  were  proper  to  record  here  the  nanio  of  one  of 
the  kindest  and  best  flEunily  physicians  I  evar  knew,  who 
had  charge  of  my  not  very  firm  health  during;  my  girlhood. 
He  owed  much — I  suppose  no  one  ever  know  really  how 
much — of  his  success  in  his  practice  to  his  tact  and  skill  in 
devising  palatable  and  suitable  nourishment  fc>r  his  patients. 
I  well  remember  the  childish  pleasure  with  which  I  would 
hear  him  say  when  the  violence  of  the  attack  had  passed — 
"  Now,  my  dear  child,  we  must  begin  with  kitchen  physic  I" 
and  the  glow  of  amused  expectation  with  whidi  I  used  to 
watch  him,  as,  with  an  arch  show  of  myst<3ry,  he  would 
beckon  my  mother  from  the  room  to  receive  his  ^  prescrip- 
tion ;  ^'  the  impatience  with  which  I  awaited  the  result  of 
the  conference,  and  the  zest  with  which  I  ate  whatever  he 
ordered. 

If  I  could  have  persuaded  him  to  manage  this  depart- 
ment of  my  work,  it  would  win  for  me  the  degree  of  M.D. 
with  a  new  meaning — Mistress  of  Dietetics. 


THE  SICK-ROOM. 

Beef  Tea.  4* 

I  lb.  lean  beef,  out  into  small  pieces. 

Put  into  ajar  without  a  drop  of  water;  cover  tightly, 
and  set  in  a  pot  of  cold  water.  Heat  gradually  to  a  boil, 
and  continue  this  steadily  for  three  or  foiu:  hours,  imtil  the 


THE  8I0K-B00H.  509 

meat  is  like  white  rags,  and  the  juice  all  drawn  out.  Sea- 
son with  salt  to  taste,  and  when  cold,  skim.  The  patient 
will  often  prefer  this  ice-cold  to  hot.  Serve  with  Albert 
biscuit  or  thin  '^  wafers,"  unleavened,  or  made  by  a  receipt 
given  under  the  head  of  Bbeab. 

Mutton  Bboth.  »f* 

1  lb.  lean  mutton  or  lamb,  cut  small. 
1  quart  witer — cold. 

1  tablespoanful  rice,  or  barley,  soaked  in  a  very  little 

warm  water. 
4  tablespoonfuls  milk. 
Salt  and  pepper,  with  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Boil  the  meat,  unsalted,  in  the  water,  keeping  it  closely 
covered,  until  it  falls  to  pieces.  Strain  it  out,  add  the 
soaked  barley  or  rice ;  simmer  half  an  hour,  stirring  often ; 
stir  in  the  seasoning  and  the  milk,  and  simmer  five  minutes 
after  it  heats  up  well,  taking  care  it  does  not  bum. 

Serve  hot,  with  cream  crackers. 

Chickek  Bboth.  »|t 

Is  excellent  made  in  the  same  manner  as  mutton,  crack- 
ing the  bones  well  before  you  put  in  the  fowl. 

Yeal  AND  Sago  Broth. 

2  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal,  cracked  all  to  pieces. 

2  quarts  of  cold  water. 

3  tablespconfuls  best  pearl  sago,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  cold 

water. 
1  cup  creiim,  heated  to  boiling. 
Tolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten  light. 

Boil  the  veal  and  water  in  a  covered  saucepan  very 


610  COMMON  SENSE. 

filowlj  until  reduced  to  one  quart  of  liquid ;  strain,  season 
with  salt,  and  stir  in  the  soaked  sago  (having  previously 
warmed  it  by  setting  for  half  an  hour  in  a  saucepan  of 
boiling  water,  and  stirred  from  time  to  time).  Simmer 
half  an  hour,  taking  care  it  does  not  bum ;  beat  in  the 
cream  and  eggs ;  give  one  good  boil  up,  and  turn  out. 
This  is  excellent  for  consumptives. 

Beef  and  Sago  Broth. 

2  lbs.  of  beef — cut  up  small. 

2  quarts  of  water. 

1  cup  of  sago,  soaked  soft  in  a  little  lukewarm  water. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs. 

Salt  to  taste. 

Stew  the  beef  until  it  falls  to  pieces ;  strain  it  out,  salt 
the  liquid  and  stir  in  the  sago.  Simmer  gently  one  hour, 
stirring  often.  Add  the  beaten  yolks;  boil  up  well  and 
serve.    ^ 

This  is  a  strengthening  and  nice  soup.  Eat  with  dry- 
toast. 

Arrowroot  Jelly  (plain).  »J* 

1  cup  hoUing  water. 

2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  best  Bermuda  arrowroot. 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar. 

Wet  the  arrowroot  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  rub 
smooth.  Then  stir  into  the  hot,  which  should  be  on  the 
fire  and  actually  boiling  at  the  time,  with  the  sugar  already 
melted  in  it.  Stir  until  clear,  boiling  steadily  all  the  while, 
and  add  the  lemon.  Wet  a  cup  in  cold  water,  and  pour  in 
the  jelly  to  form.  Eat  cold  with  sugar  and  cream  flavored 
with  rosewator. 


THE  SICK-BOOK.  611 

An  inyaluable  preparation  in  cajaes  where  wine  is  for- 
bidden. 

Arrowroot  Wine  Jelly.  »{* 

1  -cup  boiling  water. 

2  Heaping  teaspoonfuls  arrowroot. 
2  "  white  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  brandj,  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  wine. 

An  excellent  corrective  to  weak  bowels. 

Arrowroot  Blanomange.  »{• 

1  cupful  boiling  milk. 

2  dessertspoonfuls   best   arrowroot,  rubbed  smooth  in 

cold  water. 
2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 
Vanilla  or  other  essence. 

Boil  until  it  thickens  well,  stirring  all  the  while.  Eat 
cold  with  cream,  flavored  with  rosewater,  and  sweetened  to 
taste. 

Sago 

May  be  substituted  for  arrowroot  in  anj  of  the  forego- 
ing receipts,  when  you  have  soaked  it  an  hour  in  water 
poured  over  it  cold,  and  gradually  warmed  by  setting  the 
cup  containing  it  in  hot  water.  Boil  rather  longer  than 
you  do  the  arrowroot. 

Sago  Gruel.  »{* 

2  cups  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sago. 

3  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 
1  glass  of  wine. 

1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 
Nutmeg  to  taste,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 


612  OOMHON  BEsrsx. 

Put  the  sago  in  the  irater  while  cold,  and  warm  by 
setting  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Stir  often,  and  let 
it  soften  and  heat  lor  one  hour.  Then  boil  ten  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  while ;  add  the  sugar,  wine,  and  lemon,  and 
|K>ur  into  a  bowl  or  mould  to  cooL  Eat  warm,  if  preferred. 
The  wine  and  nutmeg  should  be  omitted  if  the  patient  is 
fevorish. 

Indian  Meal  Gruel.  »|t 

2  quarts  of  boiling  water. 

1  cup  of  Indian  meal,  and 

1  tablespoonfui-  flour,  wet  up  with  cold  water. 

Salt  to  taste — and,  if  you  like,  sugar  and  nutmeg. 

Wet  the  meal  and  flour  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  stir  into 
the  water  while  it  is  actually  boiling.  Boil  slowly  half  an 
hour,  stirring  up  well  from  the  bottom.  Season  with  salt 
to  taste.  Some  sweeten  it,  but  I  like  it  better  with  a  little 
pepper  added  to  the  salt. 

If  a  cathartic  is  desired,  omit  the  wheat  flour  altogether. 

Oatmeal  Qbuel 
Is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Milk  and  Eicb  Gkuel. 

1  quart  boiling  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  (heaping)  ofground  rice,  wet  with  cold 

milk. 
1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Stir  in  the  rice-paste  and  boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  while.  Season  with  sugar  and  nutmeg,  and  eat  warm 
with  cream. 

You  may  use  Indian  meal  instead  of  rice-flour,  which 
is  an  astringent.     In  this  case,  boil  half  an  hour. 


THE  8IGK-B00H.  618 

Dm  ED  Flour  for  Teethiko  Children. 

1  cup  of  flour,  tied  in  a  stout  mualizi  bag  and  dropped 
into  cold  war^r,  then  set  oyer  the  fire. 

JBoU  thr^e  hours  steadily.     Turn  out  the  flour  ball  ' 
and  drj  in  tlie  hot  sun  all  daj ;  or,  if  you  need  it  at  once, 
dry  in  a  moderate  oyen  without  shutting  the  door. 

To  use  it — 

Grate  a  tablespoonful  for  a  cupful  of  boiling  milk  and 
water  (half  and  half).  Wet  up  the  flour  with  a  very  little 
cold  water,  E.tir  in  and  boil  five  minutes.  Put  in  a  little 
salt. 

Tapioca  Jelly.  4*    (  Very  good,) 

1  cup  of  tapioca. 

3  cups  of  cold  water. 

Juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  pinch  of  the  grated  peel. 

Sweete]!  to  taste. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  water  four  hours.  Set  within 
a  saucepan  of  boiling  water ;  pour  more  luke-warm  water 
oyer  the  tapioca  if  it  has  absorbed  too  much  of  the  liquid, 
and  heat,  stirring  frequently.  If  too  thick  after  it  begins 
to  clear,  pu'"/  in  a  yery  little  boiling  water.  When  quite 
clear,  put  in  the  sugar  aud  lemon.  Pour  into  moulds.  Eat 
cold,  with  cream  flayored  with  rosewater  and  sweetened. 

Tapioca  Blakc-mange.  4* 

1  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  in  2  cups  cold  water* 
3  cups  boUing  milk.  * 

3  tablespooniuls  white  sugar. 
Bosewater  or  yanilla. 

Soak  the  tapioca  four  hours,  and  stir,  with  the  water  in 
which  it  was  soaked,  into  the  boiling  milk.     Sweeten  and 

22* 


514  COMMON   SENSE. 

boil  slowly,  stirring  all  the  while,  fifteen  minutes.     Take 
olT,  flavor  and  pour  into  moulds. 

Eat  cold  with  cream.    Wash  tapioca  well  before  soaking. 

Arbowboot  Custard.    (JVice.) 

2  cups  of  boiling  milk. 

3  heaping  teaspoonfuls  arrowroot,  wet  up  with  a  little 

cold  milk. 
2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar,  beaten  with  the  egg. 

1  egg,  very  well  beaten. 

Mix  the  arrowroot-paste  with  the  boiling  milk;  stir 
three  minutes ;  take  from  the  fire  and  whip  in  the  egg  and 
sugar.  Boil  two  minutes  longer,  flavor  with  vanilla  or 
rosewater,  and  pour  into  moulds. 

Rice-Flour  Milk. 

2  cups  of  milk,  boiling, 

2  tablespoonfuls  rice-flour,  wet  up  with  cold  milk. 

2  "  white  sugar. 

Boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while,  and  flavor  to 
taste.     Eat  warm  with  cream. 

Sago  Milk.  ^ 

3  tablespoonfuls  sago,  soaked  in  a  large  cup  cold  water 

one  hour. 
3  cups  boiling  milk. 
Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste. 

Simmer  slowly  half  an  hour.     Eat  warm. 

Tapioca  Milk 
Is  made  in  the  same  way. 


THE  SICK-BOOH.  515 

Boiled  Kice.  t^ 

i  cup  whole  rioe,  boiled  in  just  enough  water  to  oover  it. 

1    «    of  milk. 

A  little  salt. 

1  egg,  beaten  light. 

When  the  rice  is  nearly  done,  turn  off  the  water,  add 
the  milk  and  simmer — taking  care  it  does  not  scorch — ^until 
the  milk  boils  up  well.     Salt,  and  beat  in  the  egg. 

Eat  warm  with  cream,  sugar,  and  nutmeg. 

Panada.  •J^ 

6  Boston  crackers,  split. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

A  good  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

Enough  hailing  watev  to  cover  them  well. 

Split  the  crackers,  and  pile  in  a  bowl  in  layers,  salt  and 
sugar  scattered  among  them.  Cover  with  boiling  water 
and  set  on  the  hearth,  with  a  close  top  over  the  bowl,  for 
at  least  one  hour.  The  crackers  should  be  almost  clear 
and  sofb  as  jelly,  but  not  broken. 

Eat  from  the  })owl,  with  more  sugar  sprinkled  in  if  you 
wish  it.     If  properly  made,  this  panada  is  very  nice. 

Bread  Panada,  or  Jelly.  »{« 

Pare  some  slices  of  stale  baker's  bread  and  toast  nicely, 
without  burning.  Pile  in  a  bowl,  sprinkling  sugar  and  a 
very  little  salt  between;  cover  well  with  boiling  water, 
and  set,  with  a  tight  lid  upon  the  top,  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water.  Simmer  gently,  until  the  contents  of  the  bowl  are 
like  jelly.     Eat  warm  with  powdered  sugar  and  nutmeg. 


616  onocozr  BEsrea. 

CmcKEN  Jellt.     (  Very  ncwriBhing,)  4« 

Half  a  raw  chicken,  pounded  with  a  nudlet,  bones  and 

meat  together. 
Plenty  of  cold  water  to  coyer  it  well — ahout  a  quarts 

Heat  slowly  in  a  covered  Teasel,  and  let  it  simmer  until 
the  meat  is  in  white  rags  and  the  liquid  reduced  one^half. 
Strain  and  press,  first  through  a  cullender,  then  through  a 
coarse  cloth.  Salt  to  taste,  and  pepper,  if  you  think  best ; 
return  to  the  fire,  and  simmer  five  minutes  longer.  Skim 
when  cooL  Give  to  the  patient  cold — just  from  the  ice — 
with  unleavened  wafers.  Keep  on  the  ice.  You  can  make 
into  sandwiches  by  putting  the  jelly  between  thin  slices  of 
bread  spread  lightly  with  butter. 

CaXiVSs*  Feet  Bboth. 

2  calves*  feet. 

2  quarts  cold  water. 

1  egg,  beaten  up  with  two  tablespoonfdls  milk  for  each 

cupful  of  broth. 
Pepper  and  salt 

Boil  the  feet  to  shreds;  strain  the  liquor  through  a 
double  muslin  bag ;  season  to  taste,  and  set  by  for  use,  as 
you  need  it.  Warm  by  the  small  quantity,  allowing  to 
each  cupful  a  beaten  egg  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mWy 
Give  a  good  boil  up  to  cook  these,  and  serve  with  thin,  crisp 
toast.  If  the  patient  can  take  it,  a  dash  of  lemon-juice  im- 
proves the  broth. 

Toast  Wateb.  4* 

Slices  of  toast,  nicely  browned,  without  a  symptom  of 

burning. 
Enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them. 


I 


THE  BIGK-BOok.  517 

Cover  closely,  and  let  them  steep  until  cold.  Strain  the 
water,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  put  a  piece  of  ice  in  each  glass- 
ful. If  the  physician  thinks  it  safe,  add  a  little  lemon- 
juice. 

Apple  Water.  4* 

1  lai^  juicy  pippin,  the  most  finely-flavored  you  can 
get. 

3  cups  of  cold  water — 1  quart  if  the  apple  is  very 

large. 

Pare  and  quarter  the  apple,  but  do  not  core  it.  Put  it 
on  the  fire  in  a  tin  or  porcelain  saucepan  with  the  water, 
and  boil,  closely  covered,  until  the  apple,  stews  to  pieces. 
Strain  the  liquor  cU  <mcey  pressing  the  apple  hard  in  the  cloth. 
Strain  this  again  through  a  finer  bag,  and  set  away  to  cooL 
Sweeten  with  white  sugar,  and  ice  for  drinking. 

Tt  is  a  refreshing  and  palatable  drink. 

Jellt  Water.  4* 

1  large  teaspoonful  currant  or  cranberry  jelly* 
1  goblet  ice-water. 

Beat  up  well  for  a  fever-patient. 

Wild  cherry  or  blackberry  jelly  is  excellent,  prepared 
in  like  manner  for  those  sufiering  with  summer  complaint. 

Flax-seed  Lemonade.  »{* 

4  tablespoonfuls  flax-seed  (whole). 

1  quart  boiling  water  poured  upon  the  flax-seed. 
Juice  of  two  lemons,  leaving  out  the  peeL 
Sweeten  to  taste. 

Steep  three  hours  in  a  covered  pitcher.  If  too  thick, 
put  in  cold  water  with  the  lemon-juice  and  sugar.  Ice  for 
drinking. 

It  is  admirable  for  oolda 


518  cxnocoK  bense. 

Slippert-elm  Babe  Tea. 

Break  tho  bark  into  bits,  pour  boDing  water  oyer  it ; 

cover  and  let  it  infuse  until  cold.     Sweeten,  ice,  and  take 

for  summer  disorders,  or  add  lemon-juice  and  drink  for  a 

bad  cold. 

Apple  Toddy.  4* 

Boil  a  large  juicy  pippin  in  a  quart  of  water,  and  when 
it  has  broken  to  pieces  strain  off  the  water.  While  it  is 
still  boiling-hot,  add  a  glass  of  fine  old  whiskey,  a  little 
lemon-juice,  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

Take  hot  at  bed-time  for  influenza. 

Mile  Punch.  4« 

1  tumbler  of  milk,  well  sweetened. 

2  tablespoonfiils  best  brandy,  well  stirred  in. 

I  have  known  very  sick  patients  to  be  kept  alive  for  days 
at  a  time  by  this  mixture,  and  nothing  else,  until  Nature 
could  rally  her  forces.     Give  very  cold  with  ice. 

Egg  and  Milk  Punch  4* 

Is  made  by  the  preceding  receipt,  with  an  egg  beaten 
very  light  with  the  sugar,  and  stirred  in  before  the  brandy 
IB  added. 

Iceland  or  Isish  Moss  Lemonade.  4* 

1  handful  Irish  or  Iceland  moss,  washed  in  five  waters. 

2  quarts  boiling  water,  poured  upon  the  moss,  and  left 

until  cold. 
2  lemons,  peeled  and  sliced,  leaving  out  the  peeL 
Sweeten  very  well  and  ice. 

Do  not  strain,  and  if  it  thicken  too  much,  add  cold 
water. 

Excellent  for  feverish  colds  and  all  pulmonary  troubles. 


THE   8ICE-B00M.  519 

Iceland  or  Irish  Moss  Jelly.  »J< 

1  handful  moss,  washed  in  five  waters,  and  soaked  an 
hour. 

1  quart  boiling  water, 

2  lemons — the  juice  only. 
1  glass  of  wine. 

^  teaspoonful  cinnamon.     (Measure  scantily.) 

Soak  the  washed  moss  in  a  very  little  cold  water ;  stir 
into  the  boiling,  and  simmer  until  it  is  dissolved.  Sweeten, 
flavor,  and  strain  into  moulds.  You  may  use  two  glasses 
of  cider  instead  of  one  of  wine  for  a  fever-patient,  putting 
in  a  little  less  water. 

Good  for  colds,  and  very  nourishing. 

Sea-moss  Blanc-mange 

Is  made  in  the  same  way,  using  boiling  milk  instead  of 
water,  and  leaving  out  the  lemons  and  wine.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  or  rose-water. 

Dry  Toast. 

Fare  off  the  crust  from  stale  light  bread ;  slice  half  an 
inch  thick  and  toast  quickly,  Graham  bread  is  very  nice 
to&sted. 

Butter  lightly  if  the  patient  can  eat  butter. 

McLK  Toast.  ^ 

Toast  as  just  directed ;  dip  each  slice,  as  it  comes  from 
the  toaster,  in  boiling  water ;  butter,  salt  slightly,  and  lay 
in  a  deep  covered  dish.  Have  ready  in  a  saucepan  enough 
boiling  milk  to  cover  all  well.  When  your  slices  are  packed 
salt  this  very  slightly  ;  melt  in  it  a  bit  of  butter  and  pour 
over  them.      Cover  closely  and  let  it  stand  five  minutes 


530  OOIOCOK  SXNBS. 

before  using  it.      It  is  excellent  when,  made  of  Graham 

bread. 

This  is  a  good  dish  for  a  family  tea  as  well  as  for  inva- 

Uds. 

Unleavened  Biscuit,  ob  Wafers.  4* 

Mix  good,  dry  flour  to  a  stiff  dough  with  milk ;  salt^ 
and  roll  out  thin.  Cut  into  round  cakes  and  roU  these 
again  almost  as  thin  as  letter-paper.     Bake  very  quickly. 

They  may  also  be  mixed  with  water.  These  are  very 
simple  and  palatable,  and  go  well  with  ftll  kinds  of  broth, 
especially  oyster-soup. 

Dried  Ruse:.     (See  Bread,) 

Beef  Steak  and  Mutton  Chops. 

Choose  the  tenderest  cuts  and  broil  over  a  clear  hot  fire 
with  your  wisest  skilL  Let  the  steak  be  rare — the  chops 
well-done.  Salt  and  pepper,  lay  between  two  hot  plates 
three  minutes,  and  serve  to  your  patient.  If  he  is  very 
weak,  do  not  let  him  swallow  anything  except  the  juice, 
when  he  has  chewed  the  meat  weU. 

The  essence  of  rare  beef — ^roast  or  broiled — ^thus  ex- 
pressed, is  considered  by  some  physicians  to  be  more 
strengthening  than  beef-tea,  prepared  in  the  usual  manner. 

Sangarbe  or  Portsree. 

One-third  wine  or  porter  mixed  with  two-thirds  cold 
water.     Sweeten,  grate  nutmeg  on  the  top,  and  ice. 

Serve  dry  toast  with  it.  Taken  hot,  it  is  good  for  a  sud- 
den cold. 

Wine  Whey. 

1  pint  boiling  milk. 

1  large  glass  pale  wine,  poured  in  when  the  milk  ia 
scalding  hot.     Boil  up  once,  remove  from  the  fire  and  let  it 


THE  SIOK-SOOK.  521 

cool.  Do  not  stir  it  after  the  wine  is  put  in.  When  the 
curd  forma,  draw  off  the  whej  and  sweeten* 

Herb  Teas 

Are  made  hj  infusing  the  dried  or  green  leases  and  stalks 
in  boiling  water,  and  letting  them  stand  until  cold.  Sweeten 
to  taste. 

Sage  tea,  sweetened  with  honey,  is  good  for  a  sore  throat, 
used  as  a  gargle,  with  a  small  bit  of  alum  dissolved  in  it. 

Catnip  tea  is  the  best  panacea  for  infant  ills,  in  the  way 
of  cold  and  colic,  known  to  nurses. 

Pennyroyal  tea  will  often  avert  the  unpleasant  conse- 
quences of  a  sudden  check  of  perspiration,  or  the  evils  in- 
duced by  ladies'  thin  shoes. 

Chamomile  and  gentian  teas  are  excellent  tonics  taken 
either  cold  or  hot. 

The  tea  made  from  blackberry-root  is  said  to  be  good  for 
summer  disorders.  That  from  green  strawberry  leaves  is  an 
admirable  and  soothing  wash  for  a  cankered  mouth. 

Tea  of  parsley-root  scraped  and  steeped  in  boiling  water, 
taken  warm,  will  often  cure  strangury  and  kindred  affec- 
tions, as  will  that  made  firoln  dried  pumpkin-seed. 

Tansy  and  rue  teas  are  useful  in  cases  of  colic,  as  are 
fennel  seeds  steeped  in  brandy. 

A  tea  of  damask-ix»se  leaves,  dry  or  fresh,  will  usually 
subdue  any  simple  case  of  summer  complaint  in  infants. 

Mint  tea,  made  from  the  green  leaves,  crushed  in  cold 
or  hot  water  and  sweetened,  is  palatable  and  healing  to  the 
stomach  and  bowels. 

• 

MiNt  Julep.  »!« 

Some  sprigs  of  green  mint,  slightly  bruised  in  a  tumbler 
with  a  teaspoon.     Put  in  a  generous  teaspoonful  of  white 


622  OOMMON   8ENBE. 

sugar ;  add  gradually,  stirring  and  rubbing  lighUy,  enough 
waU^r  to  fill  the  glass  three-quarters  of  the  way  to  the  top. 
Fill  up  with  pounded  ice ;  stir  hard ;  pour  into  a  larger 
glass  that  you  may  shake  up  well,  and  put  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  fine  brandy. 

This  is  called  a  <*  hail-storm  julep.'^ 

£au  Sucr£.  •{« 

Dissolve  three  or  four  lumps  of  loaf  sugar  in  a  glass  of 
ice-water,  and  take  a  teaspoonful  every  few  minutes  for  a 
^'  tickling  in  the  throat/'  or  a  hacking  cough.  Keep  it  ioe- 
cold. 

A  simple,  but  often  an  efficacious  remedy. 


THE    NURSERY. 

All  food  intended  for  infants  should  be  very  thoroughly 
cooked.  The  numerous  varieties  of  farinaceous  substances — 
biscotine,  farina,  rice-flour,  arrowroot,  etc.,  however  nourish- 
ing may  be  their  properties  when  rightly  prepared,  are  harsh 
and  drastic  when  underdone.  Unless  you  have  a  nurse 
whom  you  know  for  yourself  to  be  faithful  and  experienced, 
always  superintend  the  cooking  of  baby's  food.  It  can  do 
no  harm — it  may  prevent  much — if  you  examine  it  every- 
day to  see  that  it  is  right  as  to  quality  and  quantity.  Do 
not  aim  at  vaiiety  in  this  branch  of  your  profession.  Con- 
fine a  child  under  three  years  of  age  to  a  very  limited  bill 
of  fare.  His  stomach  is  too  delicate  an  organ  to  be  tam- 
pered with.  Let  milk — scalded  or  boiled,  as  a  rule — ^be 
the  staple,  mixed  with  farina,  barley,  or  something  of  the 
sort.  Let  him  munch  Graham  bread  and  light  crackers 
freely.     Remove  far  from  him  hot  bread  and  griddle-cakes. 


THE  NUSSEBT.  523 

When  he  has  cut  his  carnivorous  teeth,  Nature  B&ys — 
**  This  creature  wants  meat."  And  Nature's  supply  is  seldom 
iu  advance  of  the  demand.  If  he  did  not  need  what  the 
teeth  are  designed  to  chew,  you  may  be  sure  they  would  not 
be  given  him.  Grant  him  the  novel  food  sparingly  and  with 
discretion  as  to  kind.  Hare  beef  and  well-boiled  mutton, 
tender  roast  or  boiled  chicken  and  turkey  are  safe.  With- 
hold fried  meats  of  every  description.  Do  not  let  him  touch 
veal  or  pork  in  any  shape.  Mince  the  meat  very  finely  to 
save  his  digestive  apparatus  all  unnecessary  work.  Mealy 
old  potatoes — never  new  or  waxy — young  onions,  boiled  in 
two  waters ;  fresh  asparagus,  green  peas,  and  dry  sweet  po- 
tatoes should  suffice  for  vegetables,  with,  of  course,  rice  and 
hominy.  For  dessert,  once  in  a  while,  a  simple  custard, 
a  taste  of  home-made  ice-cream,  rice  and  farina  puddings, 
Graham  hasty  pudding;  the  inner  part  of  a  well-roasted 
apple,  and,  in  their  season,  ripe  peaches  and  apples,  will  not 
harm  him,  taken  in  moderation,  if  he  be  well  and  strong. 

I^are  tlie  fruit  always.  The  skin  of  an  apple  is  as  bad  for 
him  as  a  bit  of  your  kid  gloves  would  be ;  that  of  a  grape 
more  indigestible  than  sole-leather.  Kaisins — ^^  skins  and 
all" — are  unfit  for  anybody  to  eat.  Pulp  and  pits,  they 
are  poisonous  for  baby.  Ditto,  pickles,  pastry,  and  pre- 
serves. Ditto,  most  kinds  of  cake  and  all  sorts  of  fruit 
puddings. 

Give  him  light  suppers,  and  put  him  to  bed  early  in  a 
dark  room.  He  will  not  grow  better  in  a  glare  of  artificial 
light  than  will  your  camellias  and  azalias. 

Always  see  for  yourself  that  his  last  waking  thoughts  are 
pleasant ;  that  he  shuts  his  eyes  at  peace  with  the  world 
and  in  love  with  you ;  that  his  feet  are  warm,  his  stomach 
easy,  and  his  body  not  overloaded  with  blankets  and  quilts ; 
also,  that  the  nursery  is  clean  and  freshly  aired.  These  are 
better  prescriptions  for  sound  slumber  than  all  the  old 


624  OOIOCOK  BSZTBE. 

wives^  fables  of  the  exoellent  propertieB  of  that  peniicioua 
drug — Soothing  Syrup. 

Farixa.  tj^ 

1  cxip  boiling  water. 
1    "    fresh  milk. 

1  large  tablespoonful  Hecker's  Farina^  wet  up  with  cold 

water. 

2  teaspoonfuLs  white  sugar. 
A  pinch  of  salt. 

Stir  the  farina  into  the  boiling  water  {digluly  salted)  in. 
the  farina  kettle  ({.  0.,  one  boiler  set  within  another,  the 
latter  filled  with  hot  water).  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring 
constantly  until  it  is  well-thickened.  Then  add  the  milk, 
stirring  it  in  gradually,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer. 
Sweeten,  and  give  to  the  child  so  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough. 

You  may  make  enough  in  the  morning  to  last  all  day; 
warming  it  up  with  a  little  hot  milk  as  you  want  it.  Keep 
in  a  cold  place.  Some  of  the  finest  children  I  have  ever 
seen  were  reared  upon  this  diet.  Do  not  get  it  too  sweet, 
and  cook  it  well.     Be  sure  the  farina  is  sweet  and  dry. 

Babley. 

It  sometimes  happens  that  milk  disagrees  with  a  delicate 
infant  so  seriously  that  it  is  necessary  to  substitute  some 
other  article  of  diet  for  a  few  days.  I  have  known  bcurley- 
water  to  be  used,  in  such  cases,  with  great  success. 

2  cups  boiling  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  pearl  barley — ^picked  over  and  washed. 

A  pinch  of  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuLs  white  sugar — not  heaping. 

Soak  the  barley  half  an  hour  in  a  very  little  lukewarm 
water,  and  stir,  without  draining,  into  the  boiling  water, 


THE  NVfiBBBT.  625 

salted  veiy  Bligbtly.     Simmer  one  hour,  stirring  often,  and 
strain  before  sweetening. 

AUROWBOOT.  »{i 

1  cup  of  boiling  water. 

1  *^     fresh  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  best  Bermuda  arrowroot,  wet  with  cold 

water. 

1  nnall  pinch  of  salt. 

2  even  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

Stir  the  arrowroot  paste  into  the  salted  boiling  water ; 
stir  and  boil  five  minutes  or  until  it  is  clear;  add  the 
sweetened  milk,  and  boil  ten  minutes,  slowly,  still  stirring. 

If  the  child  has  fever,  or  cannot  digest  milk,  substitute 
hot  water  for  it.  It  is,  however,  a  dangerous  expeiiment 
to  forbid  milk  altogether  for  an  infant.  I  should  rather 
diminish  the  quantity,  putting  in,  say,  one-third  or  one- 
fourth  as  much  as  the  receipt  names,  and  filling  up  with 

boiling  water. 

Bice  Jelly.  »{i 

i  cup  whole  rice,  well-washed  and  soaked  two  hours  in 
a  little  warm  water ;  then  added,  with  the  water,  to 
that  in  the  kettle. 

3  pints  cold  water. 

1  small  pinch  of  salt,  put  into  the  water. 
Sweeten  to  taste  with  loaf  sugar. 

Simmer  the  rice  half  an  hour;  then  boil  until  it  is  a 
smooth  paste,  and  the  water  is  reduced  one-half.  Strain 
through  double  tarlatan,  sweeten,  and  give  to  the  child. 

This  is  an  admirable  preparation  for  an  infant  sufiering 
with  weakness  of  the  bowels.  If  there  is  no  fever,  you  may 
put  one-third  part  milk,  boiled  with  the  rice.  Give  a  few 
spoonfuls  every  hour  or  half  hour. 


696  OOlCMOK  BEN6B. 

Milk  and  Bread.  4i 

^  cup  boiled  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  stale  Qraham  bread. 

A  very  little  sugar. 

Crumble  the  bread  into  the  boiled  milk,  sweeten,  and 
when  cool  enough,  feed  to  the  cliild  with  a  spoon. 

WnEATEN  Grits,  t^ 

4t  tablespoonfuls  grits  (cracked  wheat)  soaked  in  a  little 
cold  water  one  hour,  and  then  put  into  the  kettle. 
1  quart  boiling  water. 
1  cup  milk. 
A  pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  the  soaked  grits  in  the  quart  of  water  one  hour, 
stirring  up  often;  add  the  milk  and  boil  half  an  hour 
longer.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  if  the  child  is  well,  pour 
cream  over  it.  This  is  designed  for  children  over  a  year 
old.  It  is  slightly  cathartic;  especially  if  the  milk  be 
omitted,  and  is  most  useful  in  regulating  the  bowels.  When 
this  can  be  done  without  drugs,  it  is  far  better. 

Hominy  and  Milk.  4* 

^  cup  small  hominy. 

1  scant  quart  of  cold  water. 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  one  hour,  stirring  often.  While  hot,  mix  some 
soft  with  new  milk,  sweeten  to  taste  and  feed  to  baby  with 
a  spoon. 

This  is  also  relaxing  to  the  bowels,  and  should  not  be 
given  if  the  child  is  disDosed  to  summer  complaint. 


THE  NUB8EBY.  527 

Gbahah  Hasty  Pudding.  •{« 

1  cup  Graham  flour,  wet  up  with  cold  water. 

1  large  cup  boiling  water  and  same  quantity  of  milk. 

1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Stir  the  wet  flour  into  the  boiling  water,  slightly  salted. 
Boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  almost  constantly.  Add  the 
milk  and  cook,  after  it  has  come  again  to  a  boil,  ten  min- 
utes longer.     Give  with  sugar  and  milk  for  breakfast. 

Eaten  with  cream,  nutmeg,  and  powdered  sugar,  this  is 
a  good  plain  dessert  for  grown  people  as  well  as  children. 

Rice  Flour  Hasty  Pudding 

Is  made  as  above,   substituting  two  heaping  tablespoon- 
fiiLs  rice  flour  for  the  GrahaD^ 

Milk  Porbidgs. 

1  tablespoonful  Indian  meal )  wet  to  a  paste  with  cold 

1  "  white  flour )      water. 

2  cups  boiling  water. 
2     «    milk. 

A  good  pinch  of  salt. 

3oil  the  paste  in  the  hot  water  twenty  minutes ;  add  the 
milk  and  cook  ten  minutes  more,  stirring  often. 
Eat  with  sugar  and  milk,  stirred  in  while  hot. 

Mush  and  Mile. 

1  cup  Indian  meal,  wet  up  with  cold  water. 

2  quarts  cold  water. 
Salt  to  taste. 

Boil  two  hours ;  stirring  often  with  a  wooden  spoon  or 
a  stick. 

To  be  eaten  hot  with  milk  and  sugar. 


628  OOVMOS  BEN8X. 

Ck>NDENSKI>  MOJL 

This  is  perhaps  the  safest  substitute  for  the  ^good  milk 
from  one  oow,''  which  few  mothers  in  town  can  procure. 
Keep  the  can  in  a  cool  phice  and  mix  according  to  direc- 
tions. 


SUNDRIES. 
Cleaning  Pots,  Kettles,  and  Tins. 

Boil  a  double  handful  of  haj  or  grass  in  a  new  iron  pot, 
before  attempting  to  cook  with  it ;  scrub  out  with  soap  and 
sand ;  then  set  on  full  of  fair  water,  and  let  it  boil  half  an 
hour.  After  this,  jou  majiMse  it  without  fear.  As  soon 
as  you  empty  a  pot  or  frying-pan  of  that  which  has  been 
cooked  in  it,  fill  with  hot  or  cold  water  (hot  is  best)  and 
set  back  upon  the  fire  to  scald  thoroughly. 

New  tins  should  stand  near  the  fire  with  boiling  water 
in  them,  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a  spoonful  of  soda, 
for  an  hour ;  then  be  scoured  inside  with  soft  soap ;  after- 
ward rinsed  with  hot  water.  Keep  them  clean  by  rubbing 
with  sifted  wood-aAhes,  or  whitening. 

Copper  utensils  should  be  cleaned  with  brickdust  and 
flannel. 

Never  set  a  vessel  in  the  pot-closet  without  cleaning  and 
wiping  it  thoroughly.  If  grease  be  left  in  it,  it  will  grow 
rancid.     K  set  aside  wet,  it  is  apt  to  rust. 

Knives. 

Clean  with  a  soft  flannel  and  Bath  brick.  If  rusty,  use 
wood-ashes,  rubbed  on  with  a  newly  cut  bit  of  Irish  i>otato. 
This  will  remove  spots  when  nothing  else  will.     Keep  your 


BUNDBIES.  629 

best  set  wrapped  in  9ofi  white  paper ;  then  in  linen,  in  a 
drawer  out  of  damp  and  dust. 

Never  dip  the  ivory  handles  of  knives  in  hot  water. 

Silver. 

Wash,  after  each  meal,  all  that  is  soiled,  in  v&ry  hot  soft 
water,  with  hard  soap.  Wipe  hard  and  quickly  on  a  clean 
towel;  then  polish  with  dry  flannel.  If  discolored  with 
egg,  mustard,  spinach,  or  beans,  or  by  any  other  means, 
rub  out  the  stain  with  a  stiff  toothbrush  (used  only  for  this 
purpose),  and  silver  soap. 

For  years  I  have  used  no  other  preparation  for  cleaning 
silver  than  the  Indexical  silver  soap,  applied  as  I  have 
described.  After  rubbing  wi%  a  stifT  lather  made  with 
this,  wash  off  with  hot  water,  wipe  and  polish  while  hot. 
There  is  no  need  for  the  weekly  silver  cleaning  to  be  an 
event  or  a  bugbear,  if  a  little  care  and  watchfulness  be 
observed  after  each  meal.  Silver  should  never  be  allowed 
to  grow  dingy.  If  Bridget  or  Chloe  will  not  attend  prop- 
erly to  this  matter,  take  it  in  hand  yourself.  Have  your 
own  soap-cups — ^two  of  them — one  with  common  soap,  the 
other  with  a  cake  of  silver  soap  in  the  bottom.  Have  for 
one  a  mop,  for  the  other  a  stiff  brush — a  toothbrush  is  best. 
Use  your  softest  towels  for  silver. 

Besides  being  clean  and  easy  of  application,  the  silver 
soap  will  not  wear  away  the  metal  as  will  whiting  or  chalk, 
or  plate-powder,  however  finely  pulverized. 

China  ksd  Glass. 

There  are  few  of  the  minor  crooks  in  the  lot  of  the 
careful  housewife  that  cause  her  more  anxiety  and  more 
discoui-agement  than  the  attempt  to  teach  domestics  how  to 
wash  up  dishes. 

23 


580  OOIOCON  BEKSS. 

'Tve  heard  that  Mrs. is  very  exact  about  some 

things,  such  as  washing  up  dishes  and  the  likes  of  that !  ^ 

said  a  woman  to  me,  with  an  affected  laugh,  having  called 

to  apply  for  the  then  vacant  position  of  cook  ia  my  kitchen.  I 

She  had  high  recommendations,  a  whine  engrafted  upon 

her  native  brogue,  and  spoke  of  me  in  the  third  person — a 

trick  of  cheap  (and  bogus)  gentility  that  tries  my  nerves 

and  temper  to  the  very  marrow  of  my  spine.     **I  was 

a-saying  to  myself,  as  I  came  along,  that  Mrs. must 

have  been  very  onlucky  in  her  girls  if  she  had  to  tache 
them  how  to  wash  up  dishes.  I  always  thought  that  was 
one  of  the  things  that  came  kinder  naCrad  to  c^very  cook.^ 

**  Mrs. 's"  experience  goes  to  prove  tbat  the  wrong  i 

way  of  doing  this  must  "come  natural"  to  t^he  class  men- 
tioned, and  that  Nature  is  mighty  in  woman.  The  fact 
that  the  right  way  is  not  to  pile  unrinsed  dishes  and 
plates  in  a  big  pan  with  a  loose  bit  of  soap  on  top,  and 
pour  lukewarm  water  over  all ;  then  with  a  bit  of  rag  to 
splash  said  water  over  each  separately,  and  make  another 
pile  of  them  upon  the  kitchen-table,  until  the  last  is  drawn, 
reeking  with  liquid  grease,  sticky  and  streaming,  from  the 
now  filthy  puddle  of  diluted  swill ;  then  to  rub  them  lightly 
and  leisurely  with  one  towel — be  they  many  or  few — is  as 
difficult  of  comprehension  to  the  scuUionly  mind  as  would 
be  a  familiar  lecture  upon  the  pons  asinorum. 

Yet  the  right  and  only  neat  method  is  so  simple  and 
easy !  Rinse  the  greasy  plates,  and  whatever  is  sticky  with 
sugar  or  other  sweet,  in  hot  water  and  transfer  to  a  larger 
pan  of  very  hot.  Wash  glass  first;  next  silver;  then  china 
— one  article  at  a  time,  although  you  may  put  several  in 
the  pan.  Have  a  mop  with  a  handle ;  rub  upon  the  soap 
(over  which  the  water  should  have  been  powed)  until  you 
have  strong  suds ;  wash  both  sides  of  plate  and  saucer,  and 
wipe  before  pti^ting  it  out  of  your  hand.     Draining  leaves 


STTKDBIES.  631 

streaks  which  can  be  felt  by  sensitive  finger-tips,  if  not 
seen.  If  china  is  rough  to  the  touch,  it  is  dirty.  Hot, 
clean  suds,  a  dry,  clean  towel,  and  quick  wiping  leave  it 
bright  and  shining.  Koll  your  glasses  around  in  the  water, 
filling  them  as  soon  as  they  touch  it,  and  you  need  never 
crack  one.  A  lady  did  once  explain  the  dinginess  of  her 
goblets  to  me  by  saying  that  she  was  ^'  afraid  to  put  them 
in  hot  water.  It  rots  glass  and  makes  it  so  tender!  I 
prefer  to  have  them  a  little  cloudy."  This  is  literally  true 
^-ihat  she  said  it,  I  mean.  Certainly  not  that  a  year's  soak 
in  hot  water  could  make  glass  tender. 

Washing  Wnnwws. 

Dissolve  a  little  washing-soda  in  the  water  if  the  glass 
is  very  dim  with  smoke  or  dirt.  Do  not  let  it  run  on  the 
sash,  but  wash  each  pane  with  old  flannel;  dry  quickly 
with  a  soft,  clean  towel,  wiping  the  comers  with  especial 
care.  Polish  with  chamois  skin,  or  newspapers  rubbed  soft 
between  the  hands. 

To  Clean  Cabpets. 

Sprinkle  the  carpet  with  tea  leaves ;  sweep  well ;  then 
use  soap  and  soft,  warm  water  for  the  grease  and  dirt  spots. 
This  freshens  up  old  carpets  marvellously.  Rub  the  wet 
spots  dry  with  a  clean  cloth. 

To  Clean  Paint. 

Scour  with  a  flat  brush,  less  harsh  than  that  used  for 
floors,  using  warm  soft  suds ;  before  it  dries  wash  off  with 
old  flannel  dipped  in  clean  cold  water,  and  wipe  dry  with  a 
linen  towel  or  cloth.  Go  thi'ough  the  whole  process  quickly, 
that  the  water  may  not  diy  upon  and  streak  the  paint. 


533  OOIOCOK  BBNBE. 

To  Keep  Woolens. 

Beat  out  all  the  dust^  and  sun  for  a  day;  shake  Tery 
hard ;  fold  neatly  and  pin — or,  what  is  better,  sew  up — closely 
in  muslin  or  linen  cloths,  putting  a  small  lump  of  gum- 
camphor  in  the  centre  of  each  bundle.  Wrap  newspapers 
about  all,  pinning  so  as  to  exclude  dust  and  insects. 

These  are  really  all  the  precautiSns  necessary  for  the 
safety  even  of  furs,  if  they  are  strictly  obeyed«  But  you 
may  set  moths  at  defiance  if  you  can,  in  addition  to  these, 
secure,  as  a  packing-case,  a  whiskey  or  alcohol  barrel  but 
lately  emptied,  and  still  strongly  scented  by  the  liquor. 
Have  a  dose  head,  and  fit  it  in  neatly.  Set  away  in  the 
garret,  and  think  no  more  of  your  treasures  until  next 
winter. 

To  Wash  Doubtful  Calicoes. 

Put  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  of  lead  into  a  pailful  of 
water,  and  soak  fifteen  minutes  before  washing. 

To  Clean  a  Cloth  Coat. 

Bub  soap  upon  the  wristbands  and  collar ;  dip  them  in 
boiling-hot  suds — and  scrub  with  a  stiff  clean  brush. 
Treat  the  grease  and  dirt  spots  in  the  same  way.  Change 
the  suds  for  clean  and  hot  as  it  gets  dirty.  Wet  and  brush 
the  whole  coat,  the  right  way  of  the  cloth,  with  fresh  suds, 
when  you  have  scoured  out  the  spots,  adding  three  or  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  alcohol  to  the  water.  Stretch  the  sleeves, 
pocket-holes,  wristbands,  and  collar  into  shape,  folding  the 
sleeves  as  if  they  had  been  ironed,  also  the  collar.  Lay 
upon  a  clean  cloth,  spread  upon  the  table  or  floor,  and  let 
it  get  perfectly  dry  in  the  shade,  turning  over  three  or  four 
times  without  disturbing  the  folds. 


siiin)siE8.  6S8 

To  Clean  Silk. 

To  Remove  Ghease  Spots, — Scrape  Yenetian  or  French 
chalk  fine;  moisten  to  a  stiff  paste  with  soap-suds;  make  it 
into  fiat  cakes  by  pressing  between  two  boards,  and  dry  in 
the  sun  or  oven.  Keep  these  for  use.  When  you  need 
them,  scrape  one  to  powder  and  cover  the  spot  with  it,  lay- 
ing the  silk  upon  a  fine  clean  linen  or  cotton  cloth.  Lay 
two  or  three  folds  of  tissue-paper  upon  the  chalk,  and 
press  it  with  a  hot  iron  for  a  minute  or  more,  taking  care 
it  does  not  touch  the  silk.  Baise  the  paper  and  scrape  off 
the  grease  with  the  chalk.  Split  a  visiting-card,  and  rub 
the  place  where  the  spot  tmw,  with  the  inside,  to  restore  the 
lustre.     The  silk  should  be  pressed  on  the  wrong  side. 

If  the  spot  be  discovered  at  once,  simply  rub  the  wrong 

side  hard  with  powdered  French  chalk,  and  leave  it  to  wear 
off. 

To  Wcuh  aS^A;.— Mix  together 

2  cups  cold  water. 
1  tablespoonful  honey. 
1  ^'  soft  soap. 

1  wineglass  alcohol. 

Shake  up  well ;  lay  the  silk,  a  breadth  at  a  time,  on  a 
table,  and  sponge  both  sides  with  this,  rubbing  it  well  in ; 
shake  it  about  well  and  up  and  down  in  a  tub  of  cold  water; 
flap  it  as  dry  as  you  can,  but  do  not  wring  it.  Hang  it  by 
the  edges,  not  the  middle^  until  fit  to  iron.  Iron  on  the 
wrong  side  while  it  is  very  damp. 

Black  and  dark  or  sober-colored  silks  may  be  success- 
fully treated  it  this  way. 

To  Smooth  Wrinkled  Silk. — Sponge  on  the  right  side 
with  very  weak  gum-arabic  water,  and  iron  on  the  wrong 

side. 


534  COMMON   8KNSE. 

To  Renew  Wrinkled  Cbapb. 

Stretch  over  a  basin  of  boiling  water,  holding  it  smooth, 
but  not  tight,  over  the  top,  and  shiftiug  as  the  steam  £drly 
peneti*ates  it.  Fold,  while  damp,  iu  the  original  creases, 
and  lay  under  a  heavy  book  or  board  to  dry.  It  will  look 
almost  as  well  as  new. 

To  Restore  the  Pile  op  Velvet. 

If  but  slightly  pressed,  treat  as  you  would  crape.  Steam 
on  the  right  side  until  heated  through.  If  very  badly 
crushed,  wet  on  the  wrong  side ;  let  an  assistant  hold  a  hot 
iron,  bottom  upward,  and  pass  the  wet  side  of  the  velvet 
slowly  over  the  fiat  surface — ^a  sort  of  upside-down  ironing. 
When  the  steam  rises  thickly  through  to  the  right  side,  it 
wiD  raise  the  pile  with  it.     Dry  without  handling. 

To  Curl  Tumbled  Feathers. 

Hold  over  the  heated  top  of  the  range  or  stove,  not  near 
enough  to  bum ;  withdraw,  shake  them  out,  and  hold  them 
over  it  again  until  curled. 

To  Clean  Straw  Matting. 

Wash  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  clean  salt  and  water ;  then 
wipe  dry  at  once.     This  prevents  it  from  turning  yellow. 

To  Wash  Lawn  or  Thin  Muslin. 

Boil  two  quarts  of  wheat-bran  in  six  quarts,  or  more,  of 
water,  half  an  hour.  Strain  through  a  coarse  towel  and 
mix  in  the  water  in  which  the  muslin  is  to  be  washed.  Use 
no  soap,  if  you  can  help  it^  and  no  starch.  Rinse  lightly  in 
fair  water.  This  preparation  both  cleanses  and  stifiens  the 
lawn.  If  you  can  conveniently,  take  out  all  the  gathers. 
The  skirt^  should  always  be  ripped  from  the  waist 


BTTNDBIES.  535 

To  Wash  "Woolekb. 

Wash  in  clean,  hot  soap  snds ;  rinse  out  in  clear,  hot 
xvater,  and  shake  out  the  wet  without  passing  through  the 
wringer.  Worsted  dress-goods  should  never  be  wrung  when 
washed. 

To  Wash  White  Lace  Edging. 

Have  a  quart  bottle  covered  with  linen,  stitched 
smoothly  to  fiit  the  shape.  Begin  at  the  bottom  and  wind 
the  lace  about  it,  basting  fast  at  both  edges,  even  the 
minutest  point,  to  the  linen.  Wash  on  the  bottle,  soaping 
it  well,  rinse  by  plunging  in  a  pail  of  fair  water,  and  boil  as 
you  would  a  white  handkerchief,  bottle  and  all.  Set  in  the 
hot  sun  to  dry.  When  quite  dry,  clip  the  basting-threads, 
and  use  the  lace  without  ironing.     If  neatly  basted  on,  it 

will  look  nearly  as  well  as  new — if  not  quite. 

* 

Black  Lace. 

■J  cup  rain  water,  or  very  soft  spring  water. 

1  teasr>oonful  borax. 

1  tabl«3spoonful  spirits  of  wine. 

Sq\ieeze  the  tumbled  rusty  lace  through  this  four  times, 
then  rinse  in  a  cup  of  hot  water  in  which  a  black  kid  glove 
has  been  boiled.  Pull  out  the  edges  of  the  lace  until  almost 
dry ;  then  press  for  two  days  between  the  leaves  of  a  heavy 
book. 

To  Sponge  Black  Worsted  Dresses. 

Sponge  on  the  right  side  with  a  strong  tea  made  of  Jig- 
leaves^  and  iron  on  the  wrong. 

This  process  restores  lustre  and  ciispness  to  alpaca, 
bombazine,  ei^c 


636  OOIOCOK  BBN8E. 

To  Cleax  Yert  Dirtt  Black  Dresses. 

2  parts  soft  water  to  1  part  alcohol,  or  if  there  be  paint 
spots  upon  the  stuff,  spirits  turpentine.  Soap  a  sponge 
well,  dip  in  the  mixture,  and  rub,  a  breadth  at  a  time,  on 
both  sides,  stretching  it  upon  a  table.  Iron  on  the  wrong 
side,  or  that  which  is  to  be  inside  when  the  stuff  is  made  up. 
Sponge  off  with  fair  water,  hot  but  not  scalding,  hefort  you 
iron.     Iron  while  damp. 

To  Bemove  Stains  from  Marble. 

Make  a  mortar  of  unslacked  lime  and  very  strong  lye. 
Cover  the  spot  thickly  with  it  and  leave  it  on  for  six  weeks. 
Wash  it  off  perfectly  dean,  and  rub  hard  with  a  brush  dip- 
ped in  a  lather  of  soap  and  water.  Polish  with  a  smooth, 
hard  brush. 

Iron  Mould 

Is  as  nearly  ineradicable  as  it  is  possible  for  stain  to  be. 
Try  moistening  the  part  injured  with  ink,  and  while  this 
is  wet,  rub  in  muriatic  acid  diluted  with  five  times  its 
weight  of  water.  I  have  heard  that  the  old  and  new  stain 
can  sometimes  be  removed  together  by  this  operation. 

Mildew 

Is  likewise  obstinate.  If  anything  will  extract  it,  it  is 
lemon-juice  mixed  with  an  equal  weight  of  salt,  powdered 
starch,  and  soft  soap.  Bub  on  thickly  and  lay  upon  the 
grass  in  the  hot  sun ;  renewing  the  application  two  or  three 
times  a  day  until  the  spot  fades  or  comes  out. 

I  have  also  used  salt  wet  with  tomato-juice,  often  re- 
newed-, laying  the  article  stained  upon  the  grass.  Some- 
times the  stain  was  taken  out,  sometimes  not. 


BUimBlES.  637 


Ink. 


While  the  stainA  axe  yet  wet  upon  the  carpet,  sponge 
them  with  skim-milk  thoroughlf/.  Then  wash  out  the  milk 
with  a  clean  sponge  dipped  again  and  again  in  fair  water, 
cold.  Exchange  this  presently  for  warm ;  then  rub  dry 
with  a  cloth.  If  the  stain  is  upon  any  article  of  clothing, 
or  table,  or  bed  linen,  wash  in  the  milk  well,  afterward  in 
the  water. 

Dry  ink  stains  can  be  removed  from  white  cloth  by 
oxalic  acid,  or  lemon-juice  and  salt. 

Stains  of  Acids  and  Aulalies. 

Treat  add  stains  with  hartshorn ;  alkaline  with  acids. 
For  instance,  if  the  color  be  taken  out  of  cloth  by  white- 
wash, wash  with  strong  vinegar. 

Grease  Spots. 

1  quart  boiling  water. . 
1  oz.  pulverized  borax. 
^  oz.  of  gum  camphor. 

Shake  up  well  and  bottle.  It  is  excellent  for  removing 
grease  spots  from  woolens. 

Cube  fob  Bubns. 

One-third  part  linseed  oil. 
Two-thirds  lime  water. 

Sliake  up  well ;  apply  and  wrap  in  soft  linen. 

Until  you  can  procure  this  keep  the  part  covered  with 
wood-soot  mixed  to  a  soft  paste  with  lard,  or,  if  you  have 
not  these,  with  common  molasses. 

23* 


588  OOlfMOK  SENSE. 

To  Stop  the  Flow  of  Blood. 

Bind  the  cut  with  cobwebs  and  brown  sugar,  pressed  on 
like  lint.  Or,  if  70U  cannot  procure  these,  with  the  fine 
dust  of  tea.  When  the  blood  ceases  to  flow,  apply  lauda- 
num. 

To  Relieve  Asthma. 

Soak  blotting  or  tissue  paper  in  strong  saltpetre  water. 
Dry,  and  bum  at  night  in  your  bed-room. 
I  know  this  to  be  an  excellent  prescription. 

Antidotes  to  Poison. 

For  any  poison  swallow  instantly  a  glass  of  cold  water 
with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  common  salt  and  one  of 
ground  mustard  stirred  in.  This  is  a  speedy  emetic. 
When  it  has  acted,  swallow  the  whites  of  two  raw  eggs. 

If  you  have  taken  corrosive  sublimate  take  half  a 
dozen  raw  e^^  besides  the  emetic.  If  laudanum,  a  cup 
of  very  strong  coffee.  If  arsenic,  first  the  emetic,  then 
half  a  cup  of  sweet  oU  or  melted  lard. 

Cologne  Water.     {Fine,)    {No,  1.) 

1  drachm  oil  lavender. 

1  **         "  bergamot. 

2  «        "  lemon. 

2       "         "  rosemary. 
50  drops  tincture  of  musk. 
8      **      oil  of  cinnamon. 
8      "  "     cloves. 

1  pint  of  alcohol. 


STTNDBIES.  589 


CoLOONB  Watkk,     (No.  2.) 

60  drops  oil  of  layender. 
60      **        «      bergamot. 
60      "        «      lemon. 
60      "    oi*aiige-flower  water. 
1  pint  of  alcohol. 

Cork  and  shake  well. 

Habd  Soap. 

6  lbs.  washing  soda. 
3    ^^   unslaked  lime. 

Pour  on  4  gallons  boiling  water. 

Let  it  stajid  until  perfectly  dear,  then  drain  off.  Put 
in  6  lbs.  clean  fat. 

Boil  until  it  begins  to  harden — about  two  hours — stir- 
ring most  of  the  time. 

While  bailing,  thin  with  two  gallons  of  cold  water, 
which  jou  have  poured  on  the  alkaline  mixture  after 
draining  off  the  four  gallons.  This  must  also  settle  clear 
before  it  is  drawn  off.  Add  it  when  there  is  danger  of 
boiling  over. 

Try  the  thickness  by  cooling  a  little  on  a  plate.  Put 
in  a  handful  of  salt  just  before  taking  from  the  fire. 
Wet  a  tub  to  prevent  sticking ;  turn  in  the  soap  and  let 
it  stand  until  solid.  Cut  into  bars ;  put  on  a  board  and 
let  it  dry. 

This  will  make  about  forty  pounds  of  nice  soap  ;  much 
better  for  Wiishing  (when  it  has  dried  out  for  two  or  three 
months)  than  yellow  turpentine  soap. 


540  COMMON  BSN8K. 

Bab  Soap. 

Buy  a  box  at  a  time ;  cut  into  small  squares  and  lay 
upon  the  garret-floor  to  dry  for  several  weeks  before  it  ia 
used* 

Soft  Soap. 

10  lbs.  grease. 
6  **     soda  (washing). 
8  gallons  hot  water. 

Let  it  stand  for  several  days  until  the  grease  is  eaten 
up.  If  too  thick,  add  more  water.  Stir  every  day.  If 
wood-ashes  are  used  instead  of  soda,  boil  the  mixture. 


THB  Kin>. 


INDEX. 


PAOB 

PAMILIAB   TALK..  13 

SOUPS. 27 

Vegetable  Soups 28 

Asparagus  soup  (white) 30 

''            "    igrem)  ....  31 

Bean             **    (dried) 29 

Bean  and  com  soup 30 

Com                     **    84 

Graham                •*    33 

Green  Pea           **    (No.  1)..  28 

"                **    (No.  2). .  28 

Gumbo«  or  okra  **    33 

Pea  and  tomato  ''    20 

Pea  (split  and  dried)  Boap. .  28 

Potato                             **    ..  32 

Tomato  (toinier)             **    . .  31 

**       (swnmer)          "    ..  31 

Turnip                            *♦    ..  82 

Meat   Sovps, 85 

Beef  soup  d  la  JnUenne 35 

**        (brown) 37 

Brown  gmvj  Boup 41 

Chicken             "     42 

Giblet               "     40 

Hare  or  rabbit  **     44 

Mockturtic      **    39 

Mutton  or  lamb  broth 38 

Oxtail  soup 44 


PAOB 

Veal  and  macaroni  soup 30 

Veal  and  sago  **     ....  44 

Vermicelli  *'     ....  88* 

Venison  *   **     43 

Fish  Soups •.  45 

Catfish         soup 47 

Clam  "    40 

Bel  "    47 

Green  turtle  "    48 

Lobster  "    48 

Oyster  **   (No.  1) 45 

"  '*   (No.  2)....  45 

PISH 50 

Baas  (sea)  boiled 62 

"         fried 62 

Catfish,  stewed 67 

**       fried 67 

**       chowder 67 

Chowder,  clam 83 

"  (No.  1) 68 

"  (No.2) 60 

Codfishballs 51 

**      (/r<?*A),  boiled 50 

**      («att),  boiled 51 

**      and  potato  stew  ....  53 
**      (saU)^    stewed    with 

eggs 52 

Eels,  fried 68 


543 


INDE±, 


PAGK 

Eelis  stewed 68 

Fifth,  mayoimaiae  of 64 

HaUbut,  baked 54 

boiled 64 

**       devUled 65 

''       steak 65 

Macketel  {ffe$Ji)^  boiled ....  68 

{mU),  broUed 54 

**        (/r«/0,  "       53 

Perch  and  other  pan-fish. ...  66 

Pickerel,  fried. 60 

'*        baked  with  cream.  66 

Rockfish  and  river  bass 51 

Salmon,  baked 67 

**        boUed 66 

**        {fresh),  pickled  ...  58 

**        {snU\          "       ...  59 

**        (nmoked),  brofled..  60 

**        steak    57 

Salmon-tront,     baked    with 

cream 64 

Salmon -trout,  boiled 65 

fried 65 

Shad,  baked 62 

»«      {fresh),  boned 60 

*'      MO,        "     61 

**      (/rflnA),  broiled 61 

•'      {saU),          »*     61 

**      fried 61 

Sturgeon,  baked 03 

"        steak 63 

SheU-fiah 70 

Clam  chowder 82 

**    fritters 81 

'*    scallop 81 

Crab,  deviUed 71 

"     salad 71 


PAeK 

Crabs,  soft 71 

Lobster,  to  boil 70 

*^       croquettes 71 

"       devilled 70 

*'       salad.   {8eeSdiad»,)2(Xt 

Oysters,  cream  on  half  shell.  76 

"       broiled 76 

**       fried r3 

"       frittera 74 

"       omelette 76 

**       pat6 79 

"       pie 76 

"       pickled 77 

"       raw 70 

"       roast 78 

**       scalloped 74 

**       steamed 79 

"       stewed 73 

Scallops 81 

Terrapin  or  turtle 72 

POULTRY 82 

Chicken,  boUed 88 

**    broUed 90 

"        fricassee  {brtntn),,  89 

"        {whiU).,  88 

**        fried  (JVb.l) 90 

**           "     (iTo.  2) 90 

"        and  ham 93 

Chicken-pie  {baked) ..,....,  93" 

**        pot-pie 91 

"        pudding 92 

"        roaat 87 

Ducks,  roafit 93 

**      stewed 94 

Duck,  cold,  to  use  up ,. .  94 

Goose-pio 96 

**     roast 95 


INDEX. 


643 


PAOK 

Guinea-fowl,  roast 95 

Pigeons,  broiled 97 

Pigeon-pie 98 

Pigeons,  roast 97 

''        stewed 97 

Turkey,  boUed 85 

»*       ragofttof 87 

**       roast 84 

.     "       scallop  of 80 


MEATS 


98 


Beef. 98 

Beef  d  la  mode 101 

**    breakfast  stew  of 103 

**    {earned),  boUed 107 

"    hashed 104 

*'    heart,  stewed 106 

"     {dried) 107 

Beef-steak 99 

and  onions 101 


<t 


ti 


pie 


104 

Beef,  roast 98 

**    tongpie,  boiled 107 

''    to  com 106 

**    roast,   with  Yorkshire 

pudding 09 

Beef -pie,  potato-orust 105 

Mutton  and  Lamb 108 

Mutton  d  la  yenison 108 

**      boUed 100 

'*      or  lamb  chop 110 

**  "  cutlets,baked  HI 

Mutton-ham Ill 

*'      or  lamb  n'c^wjft. ..  112 

"  **     roast 108 

Mutton-stew 110 


ti 


ii 


PAQH 

Veal 113 

Calf  s  head  in  a  mould 121 

scalloped 119 

stewed 119 

GaLTs  brains,  croquettes  ol .  124 

*'     Uyer,  fried 125 

**         *«    roast 124 

»♦         *♦    stewed 125 

Imitation  pdU  defoie  gras, .  120 

Sweetbreads,  broiled 120 

"           fried 120 

"           roasted 121 

**           stewed ;  120 

Yeal,  breast  of  (roast) 118 

'*    chops 115 

"    cutlets  a  fti  Muntenon.  123 

"    cutlets  (ptoin) 114 

**    fillet  of  (roast) 114 

"    jeUied 121 

**    loin  of  (roast) . .    —  113 

*•    marbled 127 

**    minced 123 

**    oliyes  with  oysters 122 

**    pat6 118 

**    pie tl5 

**    shoulder  of  (roast)... .  114 

V«alsteak 115 

**    stewed 117 

Veal,  knuckle  of  (stewed)..  117 


Pork, 


128 


Brawn  (JVi?.  1) 144 

"      {No.  2) 144 

Chine,  roast 131 

Chops i;J4 

Ham,  to  cure 147 

"    baked 149 

**    barbecued 150 


544 


INDEX* 


fAOK 

Ham,  boiled. 148 

**    broiled 150 

**    gUsed 148 

*♦    fried 151 

*'    roast 149 

**    sandwiches 151 

**    and  chicken  sandwich- 
es   151 

*'    and  chicken  pie 162 

"    and  eggs 152 

**    steamed 148 

Lard 142 

Leg  of  pork,  roast 130 

Loin        "        »*     131 

Pig^s  head,  roast 135 

Pig*  8    '*       with   liTer   and 

heart 186 

Pig,  roast  {whole) 132 

Pork-steak 134 

**    stewed 135 

Pot-pie  of  pork 138 

Cheshire 138 

Pork,  to  pickle  {No.  1). . .   .  145 

**        {No.  2) 140 

**    and  beans 153 

Padding,  pork  and  pease. .. .  153 

Bpare-rib,  roast 131 

Bausage,  Bologna  (cooked). .  142 

"            "        (uncooked)  141 

Sausage  {No.  1) 139 

''       {No.  2) 140 

*'       {No.  3) 140 

Saveloys 145 

Souse,  or  hcad-cheess 137 

Souse  of  pig's  feet  and  ears.  130 

COMPA\Y 154 


PAGM 

Veni$on. 100 

Gutlets  of  Teniaon IfU 

Fawn,  roast 165 

Ham  —  venison 167 

Hash  "      164 

Haunch      "      161 

Neck  •'      162 

Pasty         **      165 

Sausage     **      1(58 

Shoulder.  ''      of,  roast 163 

**         **      of,  stewed. . .  162 
Steak         •'       163 

liabbiUi  or  HarsB 168 

Barbecued  rabbit 171 

Pried  *'      171 

Fricassee  of  rabbit  (brown) . .  1 70 
**  **       {vTutf)...  170 

Lardedrabbit 171 

Pie  of  rabbit 172 

Rabbitroast 169 

'^     stewed  with  onions  . .  169 

J^titrds 173 

Broiled  squirrel 174 

Brunswick  stew 173 

Ragout  of  squirrel 173 

Pheasants^  partridges,  qtuuUy 
grouse^  etc 174 

Grouse,  broiled 175 

**       roast 174 

**  **    withb-xjon 175 

Quails,  broiled TTl 

"      roast 174 

**         *'     with  ham 175 


moEx. 


54S 


PAOB 

Quail-pie 177 

PheoBant  and  partridge,  roast  174 

Pie  of  game 176 

Salmi  of  game 175 

AVild  ducks 178 

"       **    roast 178 

"       *'    stewed 179 

Wild  pigeon  pie 178 

"      '*       stewed 177 

Wild  turkey 179 

SmaUbirds 180 

Game,  to  keep  from  tainting  182 
Ortolans,  reed-birds,  rail,  and 

BOra 182 

Salmi  of  woodcock  or  snipe.  182 

Snipe,  roast 180 

Woodcock,  roast 181 

**         broiled 181 

SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND 

FJSH. 183 

AnchoTj  sauce 187 

Apple  "     191 

Asparagus  ^*     191 

Bread  "      188 

Butter,  to  brown 192 

Cauliflower  sauce 190 

Crab  sauce 18G 

Cranberry  sauce 192 

Drawn  butter  {Ko.  1) 183 

**      {2^0.  2).  184 

"         '*      {No,  3) 184 

Egg  sauce 184 

Flour,  to  brown 192 

Maitre  d'hotel  sauce 189 

Mint  "     189 


PAOK 

Mushroom  sauce 190 

Onion  »*     189 

Oyster  "     186 

Peach  **     191 

Sauce  for  boiled  or  baked  fish  185 

**     lobster 187 

White  celery  sauce 188 

**      sauce  for  fish 185 

CATSUPS     AND    FLAVORED 
VINEGARS 193 

A  good  store  sauce 199 

Celery  vinegar 198 

Elderberry  catsup 199 

''  Ever-ready  "  catsup 197 

Horse-radish  **      200 

"  scraped 193 

Imitation        Worcestershire 

sauce 195 

Lemon  catsup 196 

Made  mustard 198 

Mock  capers 198 

Mushroom  catsup 194 

Onion  vinegar 199 

Oyster  catsup 195 

Pepper  vinegar 200 

Tomato  catsup 196 

Wahiut      **      194 

SALADS 200 

Cabbage  salad,  or  cold  slaw.  200 

Celery        "      207 

Chicken      "      203 

Lettuce      *'      204 

Lobster      "      20i 

Mock  crab / 20i 

Salmon  salad :cO? 


54J 


INDEX. 


PAGR 

Sydney  Smithes  salad  droBa- 

iDg 201 

Rnmmer  salad 205 

Tomato      ''     206 

Water  cresses 205 

VEGETABLES 210 

Artichokes 242 

Asparagus,  boiled 226 

''  in  ambush 227 

**  and  eggs 227 

Beans,  butter,  or  Lima 239 

**      i(?rird) 230 

**      French,      string     or 

*'8nap" 238 

*^      kidney,     and     other 

small 230 

Beets,  boUed 239 

**      stewed 240 

BrooooU  and  Brussels  sprouts  223 

Cabbage,  boiled 218 

fried 221 

Udies' 220 

Cabbage  and  bacon 210 

**       sprouts,     or    *'ool- 

hirds'' 220 

"       stuffed 219 

Carrots,  boiled 237 

''       mashed 238 

**       stewed 237 

Cauliflower,  boiled 222 

''  scalloped 223 

stewed 222 

Celery 246 

Com  {green),  boQed 233 

"        **        fritters,         or 

cakes 235 

"        "        padding 234 


PA  OK 

Com  (ffreen),  roart 2)0 

**        "       stewed 2:35 

**        **        and  tomatoes.  2;^ 
^*        '*  '      and  beans  (suc- 
cotash)..;.. 234 

Cucumbers,  fried 2:^2 

raw 232 

''  stewed 233 

Cymblings  (summer  squash).  242 

Egg-plant,  fried 236 

"  stuffed 237 

Hominy  croquettea 249 

**       boUed 248 

♦*       hiked. 249 

**       fried 248 

Macaroni  d  la  ereme 252 

**         baked 251 

'^         stewed,      Italian 

style 251 

Mushrooms. 244 

''         baked 246 

**  broiled 246 

"         stewed 245 

Okra 247 

Onions,  baked 229 

**       stewed 228 

"       stuffed 229 

Parsnips,  boiled ^ 240 

**        buttered 241 

"        fried 240 

"        fritters 241 

**        mashed 241 

Peas  [green),  fritters  or  cakes  226 

**    green 226 

Poke-stalks  244 

Potatoes,  baked 213 

^*  boiled  with  skins  on  210 
"  boUed  without  **  210 
*'        (ii^),bofled 212 


INBEX. 


54? 


PAGE 

Potatoes,  browned  (ti^dUi).,.  216 
**  **        {nuuhed).  216 

**        broiled ;..  217 

•*        dla  creme 215 

Potato-cakes 217 

**     croquettes 214 

Potatoes,  fried 214 

*•        mashed 211 

**        maitre  d'hGtel 214 

Pototo-puif 218 

*•    ribbon 215 

**     scallop 216 

Potatoes  (stewed  for  break- 
fast)  213 

Potatoes  {M),  stewed 212 

**         stuffed 215 

**  {meet),  boiled 217 

"  "       fried 218 

"  "       roast 217 

Pumpkin,  baked 243 

stewed 243 

Radishes 247 

Rice,  bofled 250 

**    croquettes. 249 

Salsify    (or      oyster-plant), 
fried 230 

Salsify      (or     oyster-plant), 
stewed 236 

Sea-kale,  boiled 241 

•*  stewed 242 

Squash  (summer) 243 

**      (winter) 243 

Sauerkraut 221 

Spinach  d  la  creme 225 

**      boiled 224 

Succotash 234 

Tomatoes,   baked 231 

"  broiled 231 

**  raw 232 


PACK 

Tomatoes,  scalloped. 230 

* '         and  com  scallop. .  231 

"         stewed 230 

*<         stuffed  and  baked.  230 

Turnips,  boiled  (whole) 224 

mashed 223 


(t 


EGGS. 252 

Eggs  au  lit  (in  bed) 257 

*'    baked 256 

Egg-baskets. 258 

Eggs,  boiled 253 

breaded 255 

Chinese  bird's  nest  of.  250 

devilled 258 

dropped  or  poached . . .  254 

fried 255 

fricasseed 255 

with  ham 254 

poached  d  la  creme, . . .  254 

«*      with  sauce...  257 

scalloped 257 

scrambled 256 

upon  toast 257 

Egg-bolls  for  soup 260 

Omelette,  asparagus 260 

aux  fines  herbes. . .  260 

cauliflower 260 

cheese 261 

phiin 259 

with  ham,chicken, 

or  tongue 259 

Sweet  ameiettes 261 

Omelette,  apple 262 

"        jelly 262 

"        souffle,  baked...  261 
*»  "       fried....  261 


(t 


u 


11 


C( 


(( 


648 


nmEX. 


PAOK 

MILK,  BUTTER,  CHEESE, 
ETC 263 

Bonny  clabber,  or  ^'  lopi^ered 

milk" 265 

Butter  (to  make) 263 

Cheese 206 

Cottage  cheese 268 

Cream        "      268 

Junket,  or  mountain  cuataid  266 

Rennet 265 

Thickened  milk ...  269 

BREAD 569 

Bread,  Boston  brown 280 

*'       (family),  brown 279 

**  "      white 277 

Butter-milk  bread 283 

Bread,  milk 282 

**       rice 288 

lye 281 

B  Kcuit,  Graham 287 

**        minute 287 

**      .  Mrs.  K'sisoda)..,,  286 

**        risen 284 

'*        potato 286 

Crackers,  butter 290 

Crumpets  (plain) 291 

*'        {8wef.t) 291 

Muffins,  Be]le'B 294 

"       buttermilk 292 

**        Charlotte 293 

**       cream 292 

"        Graham 291 

"        hominy 294 

"        queen 292 

**        ** Mother's" 293 

**       rice 293 


Powders,  baking 276 

Rolls,  French  (JVo.  1) 283 

"      (m,2) 284 

Rusk  (dried) 280 

**    (sweet) 288 

Sally  Lunn  {No,  1) 285 

**        **    {No,  2) 285 

Sponge  for  bread  (potato) . .  276 

'*        "     (plain)...  276 

Wafers 290 

Wheatlets,  Graham 288 

Yeast  cakes 275 

"    (hop)     278 

*'    (pouto) 274 

**     (self -working) 274 

Corn  bread 294 

Ash-cake 801 

Batter-bread,  or  egg-bread. .  809 

Corn-bread,  nonpareil 297 

"  risen  (JVb.  1)...  297 

*'  "    {No,  2)...  800 

**  steamed 298 

Crumpets,  Indian-meal 298 

Johnny-cake 299 

"        Aunt  Jenny's...  299 

Muffins,  Indian-meal 297 

Pone 300 

"   fried 301 

GriddLe-cakes^  foajffles,  etc,  801 

Cake?,  Auntie's  (tcii/iovt  eggs)  303 

**     buckwheat 801 

"      batter  (risen) 304 

"     cream 805 

**     flannel 802 

"  **      (eggleas) 308 


raDBz. 


549 


PAGE 

Cakes,  Graham 803 

"      Grandpa's  favorite...  303 

"     hominy 304 

**     rice 304 

"      Telvet 304 

Flapjacks,  corn-meal 302 

Waffles,  "Mother's" 806 

"      rice(iVi?.  1) 306 

*»         "  {No.  2). 306 

"  "  and  corn-meal.  307 

"      risen 305 

"      quick 306 

Shortcake,  etc .-.  307 

Bans,  Easter  (*'hot  cross'').  309 

"      plain 310 

Shortcake,  Grandma's 309 

**  Scotch 809 

"  strawberry 308 

*'  Sunnybank 307 

CAKE. 

Almond  cake 830 

Black  cake •....,  329 

Caramel  cake 822 

Chocolate  cake 822 

**        caramels 825 

**        ddairs 325 

Coooannt  cake 316 

»*    ''  (Boflie^s) 816 

"   cakes  (small) 818 

"        cake  {loaf) 317 

**       cones 818 

Corn-starch  cake 833 

Cream  cake 815 

DoTer      '*  821 

EUie's      "   826 


PAOR 

Frenchcake 320 

Fmit        "   330 

Gold         "    3:U 

Huckleberry  cake 333 

Jelly                 "    310 

Lady                "   {No.  1)...  320 

"                    •*   {No.  2)...  321 

Lee                   **    318 

Lemon             '«  {No.  1)...  320 

"   {No.  2)...  820 

Linooki             '*    328 

Marble              "    323 

Marbled            **    32^1 

Martha's           "    314 

Mrs.  M.'8cup   **   315 

Mrs.  M.'s  sponge-cake 826 

Macaroons,  almond 332 

Nut-cake 331 

"One,  two,  three,  four"  cake 

(cxsoannt) 817 

Pound  cake  {No.  1) 337 

"        "      {No.  2) 828 

Silver    **      832 

Sister  Mag's  cake 821 

Sponge            "     326 

Washington     "     328 

White             "     334 

White  Mountain  cake. 819 

Idng 813 

Almond  icing 314 

Chocolate  icing 825 

Plain  idng 313 

Small  Cake8y  Cookies,  etc. .  334 

Boston  cream  cakes 348 

Cakes,  bread 346 


650 


tNX)JU« 


•  i 


«< 


ii 


t4 


PAOK 

GnkeB,  eanmnt 840 

"       New  Year's 335 

small  sugar 834 

{drop)y  sponge 840 

Cookies,  Mrs.  B.'s 834 

''        coriander 330 

'*        molasses 836 

*'        "Mother's" 835 

"        rioe-flour 830 

Cmllers,  Annie's 342 

''        AontMaigaxet's. ..  840 

"        KaUe's 841 

"        "Mother's" 341 

Doughnuts,  quick 842 

"  risen 842 

Ginger  snaps  {Jio.  I) 887 

(Aft  2) 887 

(No.B) 887 

JumbleSf  almond 839 

'*        Aunt  Maigaiet's. . .  888 

"        lemon 888 

"        Mra.M.'s 839 

**        ring 888 

Lady's  fingers 840 

Macaroons,  almond 832 

Nougat 849 

Wafers  (MM^) 847 

Oingerbread 843 

Gingerbread  fruit 846 

loaf(iVi?.l)....  844 
**  (Ab.  2)....  845 

plain 844 

soft 843 

spiced 345 

sponge 843 

sugar 846 


it 


i( 


PAOB 

PIBS 849 

Apple  pie  (JVb.  1) 857 

"      "  (JVi?.  2) a58 

Blackbeny  pie 308 

Cherry  " 3(i7 

Coooanut     *•  {No.  1) 304 

**  "  {No.  2) 3(54 

Crust  for  pies  {No.  1 ) 350 

"      "     "     {No.  2) 352 

"      **     "     transparent..  853 

Custard  pie 307 

"        apple  pie. 358 

*'        chocolate  pie 365 

''  corn-starch  pie. . . .  306 
"  oocoanut  *'....  365 
**        peach  **....  358 

Huckleberry  pie 308 

Lemon  pie  {No.  1) 361 

"       "    {No.  2) 301 

**       **    {No.  3) 302 

*^      cream  pie 302 

M6ringue    apple  -  pie     (and 

peach) 358 

Mince-meat,  apple,  for  pies. .  356 

Minoepie  {No.  1) 354 

**       »*    {No.  2) 854 

Mock  mince-meat 850 

Orange  pie 862 

Paste,  French  puff 352 

**      puff 352 

Peach  pie 367 

Pippin  »' 359 

Potato"  Irish.    800 

"      "  sweet  {No.  i)...   .  300 

**      **      **      (A(?.  2) 360 

Plum   **   308 

Pumpkin  pie  {No.  1) 359 

**  {No.  2) :59 


INDEX. 


651 


Bafipberry  pie 

Ripe  gooeebeny  pie 

Rhubarb  *' 

Squash  " 

Strawberry  ** 

TarU, 

Tart,  chooolate 

**  cream  raspberry 

**  cranberry 

**  currant.- 

"  currant   and   raspber 

ly ••■ 

*'     damson 

**      green  gooseberry 

**      lemon 

Tartlets,  orange 

"        rhubarb... 

SERVANTS 

PUDDINGS 

Baked  Puddings 

Alice's  pudding  

Apple,  pudding,  baked 

**      dumplings    **    

^*      batter  pudding 

**      meringue  "      

"       and  plum  **      ...... 

**      sweet         "      

< *      and  tapioca  pudding . , 
Arrowroot  pudding. ........ 

Batter  pudding  (JVo.  1) 

"  "        {No.  2) 

Bread        *'       

'  *      and  butter  pudding . . , 

**  fruit       **   ... 


PAGE 

868 
368 
370 
350 
369 


363 
369 
869 

368 

368 
368 
368 
363 
363 
370 

870 

883 

383 

392 
384 

388 
386 
384 
386 

887 
800 
398 
899 
390 
391 
391 


PAOB 

Bread  and  marmalade  pnd- 

ding 392 

**  Brown  Betty" 386 

Gocoanut  pudding 401 

Corn-starch     "     389 

"        **     meringue    pud- 
ding   889 

Cottage  pudding. . . , 399 

Cracker       **      303 

**       Dorchester  plum  pud- 
ding   894 

fruit  pudding 395 

and  jam**      896 

suet        **      394 

Cup  puddings 400 

Dumplings,  apple  {baked) . . .  888 

"           Belle's 406 

German  puffs 400 

GooHebeny  pudding 404 

Lemon              '*       400 

meringue  pudding. . .  401 

...  402 

...  403 

...  405 

...  402 

...  885 

...  405 


i( 


tt 


t( 


it 


(i 


It 


(t 


(k 


ti 


t( 


Macaroni 

Neapolitan 

Newark 

Orange  marmalade 

Pippin 

Plum 

Queen  of  puddings 393 

Rhubarb  pudding 404 

Rice  *•         (i>2fMn)...  396 

*'      and  tapioca  pudding. .  397 

Rice-pudding  with  eggs. ....  397 

Rice-flour  pudding 897 

Tapioca  **        388 

Vermicelli      "       403 

Botledptiddinffs 406 

Berry  pudding 4^8 

Cabinet    '*       412 


552 


INDEX. 


PAOR 

Gheny,  or  oanant  pjramid. .  414 

Dompliog,  apple  {No.  1). . . .  409 

**  ,**      (JVb.2)....  409 

**         fruit  suet 411 

**         rice 410 

*•         Buet 411 

Eve's  pudding 412 

Fruit        •*       410 

*'    valise  pudding 408 

Huckleberry     »*       408 

Indian  meal  pudding 41 1 

Omnge  roley-poley 414 

Queen  of  plum-puddings. ...  413 

FRITTEES,  PANCAKES, 

ETC 415 

Fritters  (No.  1) 416 

(No.  2) 416 

apple 410 

bread 417 

jelly -coke 418 

jeUy 417 

Pancakes. 418 

**        jelly  or  jam 41 9 

Queen's  toast 418 

SWEET,  OR  PUDDING 

SAUCES 419 

Bee-biTe  sauoe 419 

Brandy        "      {hard) 420 

Cabinet  pudding  sauce 422 

Cream  sauce  {hot) 424 

Cream,  sweetened  {cold) 428 

Custard  sauce 422 

Fruit-pudding  sauce 422 

Jelly  sauce  {No.  1) 423 

{No,  2) 424 


i( 


it 


<( 


4« 


(k 


t( 


It 


»( 


PAOR 

Hardsaace 419 

Lemon'*     421 

Milk     **     421 

>^liite  wine  sauoe  {Uguul) . . .  41:0 

CUSTARDS,  BLANC-MANGE, 
JELLIES  AND  CREAMS.  425 

Blanc-mange,  almond 432 

"  arrowroot 431 

*'  chocolate 434 

**  farina 431 

**  Neapolitan  . . .  432 

*'  yelvet 434 

Charlotte  Russe,  chocolate. .  436 

gelatine... .  437 

cream 435 

tipsey 435 

Cream,  Bavarian 428 

"       Spanish 428 

Custard,  almond 426 

baked 429 

boUed 425 

French  tapioca. . . .  429 

quaking 42 » 

snow 428 

Floating  Island 42/ 

Flummeiy 4;»7 

Gooseberry  fool 438 

Jaune  mange 433 

JeUy,  calf  s-foot 439 

bird*8  nest  in 441 

cider 440 

orange 442 

wine  {boUed) 442 

"     {oold) 440 

variegated 443 

Meringue,  cream 4,'^ 

Whipped  syllabub , . . .  4JJ8 


INDEX. 


653 


PAGX 

ICE-CREAM  AND  OTHER 

ICES 443 

Custard,  frozen  with  fmit. .  450 

Ice-cniam,  almond 447 

chocolate. 447 

coffee 448 

Italian 448 

lemon 440 

peach 449 

pine -apple 441 

raspberry  or 

strawberry. . . .  450 

self -freezing  ....  444 

tuttifrutti 451 

Ice,  cherry 452 

currant  and  raspberry. . .  452 

lemon 451 

orange 452 

pine-apple 452 

strawberry  or  raspberry.  453 


(t 


<( 


II 


4( 


RIPE  FRUIT  FOR  DESSERT. 

Ambrosia 454 

Apples 454 

Blackberries. 455 

Currants 656 

**       frosted. ...  456 

Oranges. 453 

Peaches  and  Pears 454 

Raspberries 455 

Balade  d' orange. 453 

Strawberries 455 

PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT 

JELLIES 472 

Pnvierces. 

Apples  baked. 468 

24 


pAoa 

Apple  bntter. 460 

Apples,  preserved 459 

^*      stewed  whole 469 

Blackberry  jam 467 

Cherries,  preserved 466 

Crab  apple. 461 

Damson,  preserved 462 

Figs,  *'        468 

Ginger,  "        465 

Grooseberries,"        467 

Greengage,    **        461 

Lemon,  **        463 

Orange  marmalade 463 

*^  peel,  preserved. ....  463 
Peach  marmalade 458 

**     preserves 458 

Pears,  baked 469 

"       preserved 458 

"       stewed 469 

Pine-apple  marmalade 464 

"         preserved. 464 

Quinces,  baked. 470 

Quince  cheese 460 

<*       marmalade 460 

Quinces,  preserved 459 

Raspberry  jam 467 

Strawberry 466 

Strawberries,  preserved .  466 

Tomato,  '*       {ffreen).  467 

**  "        {Hpe),.  467 

Unique  preserves 463 

Water-melon  rind,  or  dtron. .  464 

Fruit  JMea 470 

Blackberry  jelly 470 

Cherry  (wild)  and    currant 

jelly 473 

Cnb-apple  jelly 473 


654 


INDEX. 


Cnznnt 

Fox  grape  (grem) 

Onpe  {ripe) 

Peach 

Quince 


PAaa 
j«U7. .  470 
**  ..  478 
"  ..  473 
*•  ..  472 
"   ..  478 


Baapbeny  and  cnxxant  **  . .  472 
Sfcrawbeny  "  ..  470 

CA17NED  FRUITS  AND 
YEOETABLES. . . .  473 

Berries  (bxandied) 478 

♦*      (canned) 474 

Com  and  tomatoes  (canned).  477 
Green  com  (preserved  in  salt)  477 
Peaches  (brandied) 478 

**       (canned) 475 

Pears  (brandied) 478 

*•     (canned) 475 

Plums  (brandied) 478 

"     (canned) 476 

Tomatoes  **      476 

Candif» 

Molasses  candy 479 

Sugar  "     479 

PICKLES 480 

Feans  (green),   and  radish- 

podH 484 

Cabbage,  purple 484 

"   yeUow 488 

Caulijflower,  pickled 485 

Cherries,  "       490 

Cucumbers  or  gherkins,  piclc- 

led 480 

Cucumbers,  sliced  pickle. . . .  486 
Mangoes,  melon       '*      ....  482 


PASH 

Mangoes,  pepper  picUe 482 

Nasturtium  seed,      *'     485 

Onion,  "      ...  484 

Peache  (sweet),         **      ...  489 

*'       (unpeeled)   "      ...  490 

Pear  (sweet),  "       ...  489 

Picklette 491 

Plums,  pickled. 489 

Tomato  (green),  pickle 488 

"  "       soy. 488 

"       ripe,plckle 488 

Walnut  or  butternut  pickle.  485 
Water-melon  rind  pickle. . . .  480 

DRINKS 491 

Blackbeny  cordial 490 

"  Tinegar 490 

Caf6aulait 493 

Claret  punch 601 

Cherry  bounce 601 

Chocolate 494 

Cocoa-nibs,  or  shells 494 

'*     prepared 494 

Coffee  (booed) 492 

Coffee 491 

»*     (without  boiling). ...  492 

Cranberry  wine 497 

Currant,       "    497 

£^gg-D0gg. 501 

Elderbeny  wine 496 

Jamaica  ginger-beer 498 

Lemonade,  or  sherbet. 498 

Milk  tea  for  chUdren 494 

Nectar 500 

Orangeade 499 

Raisin  wine 498 

Raspberry  royal 495 

'<         yinegar 406 


H«l 


INDEX. 


655 


PAOB 

Begent^B  punch 490 

Boman        »*       500 

Sheny  cobbler 500 

Strawbeziy  sherbet 409 

"  wine 497 

Tea 493 

THE  SICK-BOOM...  503 

Blanc-mange,  arrowroot. . . .  401 
*'  sea-moss. ....  619 
*'  tapioca. 513 

Beef-steak  and  mutton -choiM  520 

Bisonit  or  wafers 520 

Broth,  beef  and  sago 510 

"      calf.foot 516 

*«      chicken 609 

**      mutton 509 

*<      veal  and  sago 509 

Custard,  arrowroot 614 

Dried  rusk 520 

Dried  flour  for  teething  chil- 
dren  513 

Eau  Buor^ 522 

Gruel,  Indian-meal 512 

<'      milk  and  rice 512 

''       oatmeal 512 

*'       sago 511 

Jelly,  arrowroot  (plftin) 510 

**  *•        (loine) 511 

"      chicken 516 

*'      Iceland,  or  Irish  moss  518 

"      tapioca 513 

Lemonade,  flaxseed 517 

*'  Iceland,  or  Irish 

moss 518 

Milk,  rice-flour 514 

"     sago 514 


PAOR 

Milk,  tapioca 514 

Mmt  julep 521 

Panada 515 

'*     bread,  or  jelly 515 

Punch,  egg  and  milk 618 

*•      milk 518 

Bice,  boiled • . .  615 

Sangaree,  or  parteree 620 

Tea,  beef 508 

Teas,  herb 621 

Tea,  slippery -elm  bark 618 

Toast,  dry 519 

**      milk 619 

Toddy,  apple 518 

Water,       "    517 

**    jelly 517 

"    toast 516 

Wine-whey 520 

THE  NUBSEBY. ...  522 

Arrowroot 525 

Barley 524 

Farina 524 

Hominy  and  milk 526 

Jelly,  rice 625 

Milk  and  bread 526 

'^     condensed 628 

**     porridge 627 

Mush  and  milk 627 

Pudding,  Graham 627 

"      rice-flour 627 

Wheaten  grits 626 

SUNDBIES 528 

Antidotes  for  poison 638 

Asthma,  to  relieve 638 

Blood,  to  stop  the  flow  of . . .  538 
Bums,  to  ooze 537 


656 


INBfiZ. 


Glean,  oarpete  to 531 

.  knirefl 528 

kettles,  pots,  and  tins  528 

china  and  glass 520 

doth  ooat,  a 532 

black  wonted  dress . .  535 

•dirty  Uaok  dress. 536 

point 581 

silk 533 

straw  matting 534 

silver 529 

windows 531 

Grape,  wrinkled,  to  renew. .  434 
Feathers,  tumbled,  to  oorl. .  534 
Grease-spots,  to  remove. . . .  537 

Soap,  bar 540 

••     hard 539 


TAorn 

Soap,  soft 540 

Stains,  adds  and  alkalies. . .  587 

*'       ink,toremove .537 

*<       izon-monld,    to    r^- 

BK>ve 536 

*'       from  marble  to  re- 
move  536 

**  mildew,  to  remove. .  536 
Vdvet,  to  restore  the  pile  of.  534 
Wash,  doubtfol  calicoes  to. .  532 

*'      lace,  black  to 535 

"         **    whiteto 532 

'*       lawn,  or  thin  muslin  534 

"       woollens 535 

Water,  cologne  (No.  1) 538 

**       iHTo.  2) 539 

Woollens,  to  keep 532 


r 


(y>^i  ^f -*«| 


1 


