r 


THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  ILLINOIS 
LIBRARY 

From  the  collection  of 
Julius  Loerner,  Chicago 
Purchased,  1918. 

641 
T27c 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Arcliive 
in  2015 


* 


littps://arcliive.org/details/commonsenseinhouOOharl_0 


COMMON  SENSE  IN  THE 
HOUSEHOLD : 


A  MANUAL  OF 


PRACTICAL  HOUSEWIFERY. 


BY 

MARION  HARLAND. 


"  We  go  upon  the  practical  mode  of  teaching,  Nickleby.  Wlien  a  boy- 
knows  this  out  of  book,  he  goes  and  does  it.  This  is  our  system.  What 
do  you  think  of  it  ?  " — Nicholas  Nickleby. 


TORONTO: 
BELFORDS,    CLARKE  & 
1  8  7  9. 


G  O. 


TORONTO 

Williams,  Sleeth  &  MacMillan,  Printers 


64/ 

721c 

REMOTE  STO""  """ 

\ 


TO  MY 
FELLOW-HOUSEKEEPERS, 
NORTH,    EAST,    SOUTH    AND    WEST,    THIS  VOLUME, 
THE  GLEANINGS  OF  MANY  YEARS, 
IS  CORDIALLY 


I 


70227'4 


NOTE. 


X 


In  looking  over  this  book  the  reader  will  notice  certain  receipts  marked 
thus — +.  I  do  not  claim  for  these  greater  merit  than  should  of  right  be  ac- 
cforded  to  many  others.  I  merely  wish  to  call  the  attention  of  the  novice 
o  them  as  certainly  safe,  and  for  the  most  part  simple.  Every  one  thus 
marked  has  been  tried  by  myself ;  most  of  them  are  in  frequent,  some  in 
daily  use,  in  my  own  family. 

My  reason  for  thus  singling  out  comparatively  a  small  number  of  re- 
ceipts from  the  rest,  is  the  recollection  of  my  own  perplexities—  the  loss  of 
time  and  patience  to  which  I  have  been  subjected  in  the  examination  of  a 
new  cookery-book,  with  an  eye  to  the  immediate  use  of  the  directions  laid 
down  for  various  dishes.  I  have  often  and  vainly  wished  for  a  linger-board 
to  guide  me  in  my  search  for  those  which  were  easy  and  sure,  and  which 
would  result  satisfactorily.  This  sort  of  directory  I  have  endeavored  to 
supply,  taking  care,  however,  to  inform  the  reader  in  advance  that,,  so  far 
as  I  know  there  is  not  an  unsafe  receipt  in  the  whole  work. 

Of  course  it  was  not  necessary  or  expedient  to  append  the  above  sign  to 
plain  "  roast  and  boiled,"  v^'bich  are  in  common  use  everywhere. 


SOUPS. 


The  base  ot  your  soup  should  always  be  uncooked  meat. 
To  this  may  be  added,  if  you  like,  cracked  bones  of  cooked 
game,  or  of  underdone  beef  or  mutton;  but  for  flavor  and 
nourishment,  depend  upon  the  juices  of  the  meatj  which  was 
put  in  raw.  Cut  this  into  small  pieces,  and  beat' the  bone 
until  it  is  fractured  at  every  inch  of  its  length.  Put  them  on 
m  cold  water,  without  salt,  and  heat  very  slowly.  Do  not 
boil  fast  at  any  stage  of  the  operation.  Keep  the  pot  covered, 
and  do  not  add  the  salt  until  the  meat  is  thoroughly  done,  as 
it  has  a  tendency  to  harden  the  fibres,  and  restrain  the  flow  of 
the  juices.  Strain— always  through  a  cullender,  after  which 
clear  soups  should  be  filtered  through  a  hair-sieve  or  coarse 
bobbmet  lace.    The  bag  should  not  be  squeezed. 

^  It  is  slovenly  to  leave  rags  of  meat,  husks  of  vegetables  and 
bits  of  bone  in  the  tureen.  Do  notj  uncover  until  you  are 
ready  to  ladle  out  the  soup.  Do  this  neatly  and  quickly, 
havmg  your  soup-plates  heated  beforehand. 

Most  soups  are  better  the  second  day  than  the  first,  unless 
they  are  warmed  over  too  quickly  orHeft  too  long  upon  the 
fire  after  they>re  hot.  In  the  one  case  they  are  apt  to  scorch  ; 
m  the  other  they  become  insipid. 


6 


COMMON  SENSE. 


VEGETABLE  SOUPS. 

Green  Pea.  | 

4  lbs.  beef — cut  into  small  pieces. 
Yz  peck  of  green  peas. 
I  gallon  water. 

Boil  the  empty  pods  of  the  peas  in  the  water  one  hour 
before  putting  in  the  beef.  Strain  them  out,  add  the  beef, 
and  boil  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half  longer.  Half  an  hour 
before  serving,  add  the  shelled  peas;  and  twenty  minutes 
later,  half  a  cup  of  rice-flour,  with  salt  and  pepper,  A  little 
chopped  parsley  is  an  improvement.  After  adding  the  rice 
flour,  stir  frequently,  to  prevent  scorching.  Strain  into  a  hot 
tureen. 

Pea  and  Tomato.  % 

This  is  made  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  in  summer 
with  green — in  winter  with  dried  and  split  peas.  Just  before 
straining  the  soup,  add  a  quart  of  tomatoes,  which  have 
already  been  stewed  soft ;  let  the  whole  come  to  a  good  boil, 
and  strain  as  above  directed.  If  the  stewed  tomato  be  watery, 
strain  ofl"  the  superfluous  liquid  before  pouring  into  the  pea 
soup,  or  it  will  be  too  thin. 

Bean  (dried).  % 

The  beans  used  for  this  purpose  may  be  the  ordinary  kidney, 
the  rice  or  field  bean,  or,  best  of  all,  the  French  mock-turtle 
soup  bean.  Soak  a  quart  of  these  over  night  in  soft  lukewarm 
water ;  put  them  over  the  fire  next  morning,  with  one  gallon 
of  cold  water  and  about  two  pounds  of  salt  pork.  Boil  slowly 
for  three  hours,  keeping  the  pot  well  covered  ;  shred  into  it  a 
head  of  celery,  add  pepper — cayenne,  if  preferred — simmer 
half  an  hour  longer,  strain  through  a  cullender,  and  serve, 
with  slices  of  lemon  passed  to  each  guest. 


VEGETABLE  SOUPS.  7 

Mock-turtle  beans,  treated  in  this  way,  yield  a  very  fair  sub- 
stitute for  the  fine  oalfs-head  soup  known  by  the  same  name. 

Bean  and  Corn.  | 
This  is  a  winter  soup,  and  is  made  of  white  beans  prepared 
according  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  but  with  the  addition  of  a 
quart  of  dried  or  canned  corn.    If  the  former  is  used— and 
the  Shaker  sweet  corn  is  nearly  as  good  for  the  purpose  as  the 
more  expensive  canned  green  corn— soak  it  overnight  in  warm 
water— changing  this  early  in  the  morning,  and  pouring  on 
more  warm  water,  barely  enough  to  cover  the  corn,  and  keep- 
ing it  in  a  close  vessel  until  ready  to  put  on  the  beans.  Let 
all  boil  together,  with  pork  as  in  the  bean  soup  proper.  Strain 
out  as  usual.    Some  persons  have  a  habit  of  neglecting  the 
use  of  the  cullender  in  making  bean  soup,  and  serving  it  like 
stewed  beans  which  have  been  imperfectly  drained.  The 
practice  is  both  slovenly  and  unwholesome,  since  the  husks  of 
the  cereal  are  thus  imposed  upon  the  digestive  organs  of  the 
eater,  with  no  additional  nutriment.    To  the  beans  and  corn 
may  be  added  a  pint  of  stewed  tomato,  if  desired. 

Asparagus  (Green  soup). 
3  lbs.  veal— cut  into  small  pieces. 
%  lb.  salt  pork. 
3  bunches  asparagus. 
I  gallon  water. 

Cut  the  entire  stalk  of  the  asparagus  into  pieces  an  inch 
long,  and  when  the  meat  has  boiled  one  hour,  add  half  of  the 
vegetable  to  the  liquor  in  the  pot.  Boil  two  hours  longer  and 
strain,  pressing  the  asparagus  pulp  very  hard  to  extract  all  the 
green  coloring.  Add  the  other  half  of  the  asparagus- (the 
heads  only,  which  should  be  kept  in  cold  water  until  you  are 
ready  for  them),  and  boil  twenty  minutes  more.  When  it  has 
fairly  boiled  up,  serve  without  further  straining,  with  small 
squares  of  toast  in  the  tureen. 


8 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Tomato  ( Whiter  soup. )  J 
3  lbs.  beef. 

I  qt.  canned  tomatoes. 
I  gallon  water. 

Let  the  meat  and  water  boil  for  two  hours,  until  the  liquid 
is  reduced  to  little  more  than  two  quarts.  Then  stir  in  the 
tomatoes,  and  stew  all  slowly  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
longer.    Season  to  taste,  strain,  and  serve. 

Tomato  {Summer  soup).  | 

2%  lbs.  veal,  or  lamb. 

1  gallon  water. 

2  qts.  fresh  tomatoes,  peeled  and  cut  up  fine. 

Boil  the  meat  to  shreds  and  the  water  down  to  two  quarts. 
Strain  the  liquor,  put  in  the  tomatoes,  stirring  them  very  hard 
that  they  may  dissolve  thoroughly ;  boil  half  an  hour.  Season 
with  parsley  or  any  other  green  herb  you  may  prefer,  pepper, 
and  salt.  Strain  again,  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  before  pouring  into  the 
tureen. 

This  soup  is  more  palatable  still  if  made  with  the  broth  in 
which  chickens  were  boiled  for  yesterday's  dinner. 

Turnip. 

Knuckle  of  veal,  well  cracked. 
5  qts.  water. 

Cover  closely  and  stew  gently  for  four  hours,  the  day  before 
the  soup  is  wanted.  On  the  morrow,  skim  off  the  fat  and 
warm  the  stock  gradually  to  a  boil.  Have  ready  an  onion  and 
six  large  winter  or  a  dozen  small  summer  turnips,  sweet  mar- 
joram or  thyme  minced  very  finely.  Put  these  into  the  soup 
and  let  them  simmer  together  for  an  hour.  Strain ;  return  to 
the  fire  and  add  a  cup  of  milk — in  which  has  been  stirred  a 


VEGETABLE  SOUPS. 


tablespoonful  of  rice-floi,r  or  other  thickening-nnd  a  ti1,le 
spoonful  of  butter.  Seasor,  with  salt  and  pepper,  let  it  bo  1  up 
once,  st.„ng  all  the  ti.e,  as  is  necessary  in  all  soups  whe  e 
m,Ik  ,s  added  at  the  last,  and  remove  instantly,  or  it  will 


Potato. 

A  dozen  large  mealy  potatoes. 

2  onions. 

I  lb.  salt  pork. 

3  qts.  water. 

°f  ..Hf^/^^dy  the  potatoes,  which,  after  being 
peeled  and  shced,  should  lie  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour 

andT-  r  ^'"^        ^"^"PP^d  Cove; 

and  bo,I  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  stirring  often.  Beat  in  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a  cup  of  cream  or  m  Ik  in 
whtch  has  been  mixed  a  well-beaten  egg.    Add  the  latter  in 

fna  TrT:^'^'"'^"  ^  '^-'^"^  "     -  a 

final  boil,  and  then  serve. 

iJnnr!'  '  m''''  wholesome  dish,  and  more  palatable 
than  one  would  suppose  from  reading  the  receipt. 

Graham  Soup.  + 

3  onions. 

3  carrots. 

4  turnips. 

I  small  cabbage. 
I  bunch  celery. 
I  pt.  stewed  tomatoes. 
Chop  all  the  vegetables,  except  the  tomatoes  and  cabbage 
very  finely,  and  set  them  over  the  fire  with  rather  over  three 

til   ,  u  '  ^^'''S'         be  added,  having 

previously  been  parboUed  and  chopped  up.    I„  fifteen  minutes 


10 


COMMON  SENSE. 


more  put  in  the  tomatoes  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and 
give  all  a  lively  boil  of  twenty  minutes.  Rub  through  a  cul- 
lender, return  the  soup  to  the  fire,  stir  in  a  good  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  half  a  cup  of  cream  if  you  have  it, 
thickened  with  corn-starch  ;  let  it  boil  up,  and  it  is  ready  for 
the  table. 

OcHRA,  OR  Gumbo. 
Ochra,  or  okra,  is  a  vegetable  little  known  except  in  the  far 
South,  where  it  is  cultivated  in  large  quantities  and  is  very 
popular.    A  favorite  soup  is  prepared  from  it  in  the  following 
manner : — 

2  qts.  of  ochras,  sliced  thin. 

1  qt.  of  tomatoes,  also  sliced. 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

2  lbs.  of  beef,  cut  into  small  pieces. 

^  lb  ham  or  pickled  pork,  also  cut  up. 
Put  the  meat  and  ochras  together  in  a  pot  with  a  quart  of 
cold  water — just  enough  to  cover  them — and  let  them  stew  for 
an  hour.  Then  add  the  tomatoes  and  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water — more  if  the  liquid  in  the  pot  has  boiled  away  so  as  to 
expose  the  meat  and  vegetables.  Boil  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  longer,  skimming  often  with  a  silver  spoon.  When  the 
contents  of  the  vessel  are  boiled  to  pieces,  put  in  the  butter, 
with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  if  the  ham  has  not  seasoned  it 
sufficiently.  Strain  and  send  up  with  squares  of  light,  crisp 
toast  floating  upon  it. 


MEAT  SOUPS. 
Beef  Soup  (a  la  Julienne).  % 

6  lbs.  of  lean  beef.  The  shin  is  a  good  piece  for  this  purpose. 
Have  the  bones  well  cracked,  carefully  extracting  the 
marrow,  every  bit  of  which  should  be  put  into  the  soup. 

6  qts.  of  water. 


MEAT  SOUPS. 


11 


The  stock  must  be  prepared  the  day  before  the  soup  is 
needed.  Put  the  beef,  bones  and  all,  with  the  water  in  a  close 
vessel,  and  set  it  where  it  will  heat  gradually.  Let  it  boil  very 
slowly  for  six  hours  at  least,  only  uncovering  the  pot  once  in 
a  great  while  to  see  if  there  is  danger  of  the  water  sinking  too 
rapidly.  Should  this  be  the  case,  replenish  with  boiling 
water,  taking  care  not  to  put  in  too  much.  During  the 
seventh  hour  take  off  the  soup  and  set  it  away,  still  closely 
covered,  until  next  morning.  About  an  hour  before  dinner, 
take  out  the  meat,  which  you  can  use  for  mince-meat,  if  you 
wish ;  remove  the  cake  of  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  stock, 
set  the  soup  over  the  fire,  and  throw  in  a  little  salt  to  bring  up 
the  scum.  When  this  has  been  skimmed  carefully  off,  put  in 
your  vegetables.    These  should  be— 

2  carrots. 

3  turnips. 

Half  a-head  of  white  cabbage. 

I  pt.  green  corn— or  dried  Shaker  corn,  soaked  over  night. 
I  head  celery. 
I  qt.  tomatoes. 

These  should  be  prepared  for  the  soup  by  slicing  them  very 
small,  and  stewing  them  in  barely  enough  water  to  cover 
them,  until  they  break  to  pieces.  Cook  the  cabbage  by  itself 
in  two  waters—throwing  the  first  away.  The  only  exception 
to  the  general  dissolution,  is  in  the  case  of  a  single  carrot, 
which  should  likewise  be  cooked  alone  and  whole,  until  thor- 
oughly done,  and  set  aside  to  cool,  when  the  rest  of  the 
vegetables,  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  are 
added  to  the  soup.  Return  the  pot  to  the  fire  with  the  vege- 
tables and  stock,  and  boil  slowly  for  half  an  hour  from  the 
time  ebullition  actually  begins.  Strain  without  pressing,  only 
shaking  and  lightly  stirring  the  contents  of  the  cullender. 
The  vegetables  having  been  added  with  all  their  juices  already 
cooked,  much  boiling  and  squeezing  are  not  needed,  and 


.12 


COMMON  SENSE. 


only  make  the  soup  cloudy.  Cut  the  reserved  carrot  into 
dice  and  drop  into  the  clear  liquor  after  it  is  in  the  tureen, — 
also,  if  you  like,  a  handful  of  vermicelli,  or  macaroni  which 
has  been  boiled  tender  in  dear  water. 

The  seasoning  of  this  excellent  soup  is  a  matter  of  taste. 
Some  use  only  salt  and  white  pepper.  Others  like  with  this  a 
few  blades  of  mace,  and  boil  in  the  stock  a  handful  of  sweet 
herbs.  And  others  fancy  that,  in  addition  to  these,  a  glass  of 
brown  sherry  imparts  a  flavor  that  renders  it  peculiarly  accepta- 
ble to  most  palates.  Send  to  table  very  hot,  and  have  the 
soup-plates  likewise  heated. 

Veal  Soup  with  Macaroni.  | 

3  lbs.  of  veal  knuckle  or  scrag,  with  the  bones  broken  and 

meat  cut  up. 
3  qts.  water. 
^  lb.  Italian  macaroni. 

Boil  the  meat  alone  in  the  water  tor  nearly  three  hours, 
until  it  is  reduced  to  shreds ;  and  the  macaroni  until  tender, 
in  enough  water  to  cover  it,  in  a  vessel  by  itself.  The  pieces 
should  not  be  more  than  an  inch  in  length.  Add  a  little 
butter  to  the  macaroni  when  nearly  done.  Strain  the  meat 
out  of  the  soup,  season  to  your  taste,  put  in  the  macaroni,  and 
the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled ;  let  it  boil  up  and  serve. 

You  can  make  macaroni  soup  of  this  by  boiling  a  pound, 
instead  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound,  in  the  second  vessel,  and 
adding  the  above  quantity  of  veal  broth.  In  this  case  send 
on  with  it  a  plate  of  grated  cheese,  that  those  who  cannot 
relish  macaroni  without  this  accompaniment  may  put  it  into 
their  soup.  Take  care  that  the  macaroni  is  of  uniform  length, 
not  too  long,  and  that  it  does  not  break  while  stewing.  Add 
butter  in  proportion  to  the  increased  quantity  of  macaroni. 


MEAT  SOUPS. 


18 


Mutton  or  Lamb  Broth.  | 

4  lbs.  mutton  or  lamb— cut  into  small  pieces. 
I  gallon  water, 
teacupful  rice. 

Boil  the  unsalted  meat  for  two  hours,  slowly,  in  a  covered 
vessel.  Soak  the  rice  in  enough  warm  water  to  cover  it,  and 
at  the  end  of  this  time  add  it,  water  and  all,  to  the  boiling 
soup.  Cook  an  hour  longer,  stirring  watchfully  from  time  to 
time,  lest  the  rice  should  settle  and  adhere  to  the  bottom  of 
the  pot.  Beat  an  egg  to  a  froth  and  stir  into  a  cup  of  cold 
milk,  into  which  has  been  rubbed  smoothly  a  tablespoonful 
rice  or  wheat  flour.  Mix  with  this,  a  little  at  a  time,  some  of 
the  scalding  liquor,  until  the  egg  is  so  far  cooked  that  there  is 
no  danger  of  curdling  in  the  soup.  Pour  into  the  pot  when 
you  have  taken  out  tlie  meat,  season  with  parsley,  thyme, 
pepper,  and  salt.  Boil  up  fairly,  and  serve.  If  allowed  to 
stand  on  the  fire,  it  is  apt  to  burn. 

This  soup  may  be  made  from  the  liquor  in  which  a  leg  of 
mutton  has  been  boiled,  provided  too  much  salt  was  not  put 
in  with  it.  It  is  especially  good  when  the  stock  is  chicken 
broth.  For  the  sick  it  is  palatable  and  nutritious  with  the 
rice  left  in.  When  strained  it  makes  a  nice  white  table  soup, 
and  IS  usually  relished  by  all. 

Vermicellt  Soup.  % 

4  lbs.  lamb,  from  which  every  particle  of  fat  has  been 

removed. 
I  lb.  veal. 

A  slice  of  corned  ham. 

5  qts.  water. 

Cut  up  the  meat,  cover  it  with  a  quart  of  water,  and  set  it 
back  on  the  range  to  heat  very  gradually,  keeping  it  covered 
closely.     At  the  end  of  an  hour,  add  four  quarts  boiling 


14 


COMMON  SENSE. 


water,  and  cook  until  the  meat  is  in  shreds.  Season  with 
salt,  sweet  herbs,  a  chopped  shallot,  two  teaspoonfuls  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  and  when  these  have  boiled  in  the  soup  for 
ten  minutes,  strain  and  return  to  the  fire.  Have  ready  about 
a  third  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli  (or  macaroni),  which  has  been 
boiled  tender  in  clear  water.  Add  this ;  boil  up  once,  and 
pour  out. 

In  all  receipts  in  which  ham  is  mentioned  as  seasoning, 
reference  is  made  to  corned^  not  smoked  pork.  The  smoke 
imparts  an  undisguisable,  and,  to  many,  an  unpleasant  flavor, 
especially  to  delicate  soups  and  ragouts. 

Mock-Turtle  or  Calf's  Head  Soup.  % 
I  large  calf's  head,  well  cleaned  and  washed. 
4  pig's  feet. 

This  soup  should  always  be  prepared  the  day  before  it  is  to 
be  served  up.  Lay  the  head  and  feet  in  the  bottom  of  a  large 
pot,  and  cover  with  a  gallon  of  water.  Let  it  boil  three  hours, 
or  until  the  flesh  will  slip  easily  from  the  bones.  Take  out  the 
head,  leaving  in  the  feet,  and  allow  these  to  boil  steadily  while 
you  cut  the  meat  from  the  head.  Select  with  care  enough  of 
the  fatty  portions  which  lie  on  the  top  of  the  head  and  the 
cheeks  to  fill  a  tea-cup,  and  set  them  aside  to  cool.  Remove 
the  brains  to  a  saucer  and  also  set  aside.  Chop  the  rest  of 
the  meat  with  the  tongue  very  fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
powdered  marjoram  and  thyme,  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  the 
same  of  mace,  half  as  much  allspice,  and  a  grated  nutmeg, 
and  return  to  the  pot.  When  the  flesh  falls  from  the  bones  of 
the  pig's  feet,  take  out  the  latter,  leaving  in  the  gelatinous 
meat.  Let  all  boil  together  slowly,  without  removing  the 
cover  for  two  hours  more ;  take  the  soup  from  the  fire  and  set 
it  away  until  the  next  day.  An  hour  before  dinner,  set  on  the 
stock  to  warm.  When  it  boils  strain  carefully,  and  drop  in 
the  meat  which  you  have  reserved,  which,  when  cold,  should 
be  cut  into  small  squares.    Have  these  all  ready  as  well  as 


MEAT  SOUPS. 


15 


the  force-meat  balls.  To  prepare  these,  rub  the  yolks  of  five 
hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  paste  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  or  in  a 
bowl,  with  the  back  of  a  silver  tablespoon,  adding  gradually 
the  brains  to  moisten  them,  also  a  little  butter  and  salt.  Mix 
with  these  two  eggs  beaten  very  light,  flour  your  hands,  and 
make  this  paste  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg. 
Throw  them  into  the  soup  five  minutes  before  you  take  it  off 
the  fire ;  stir  in  a  large  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  let  it  boil  up,  and  finish  the 
seasoning  by  the  addition  of  a  glass  and  a  half  of  good  wine 
—sherry  or  Madeira— and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  It  should 
not  boil  more  than  half  an  hour  on  the  second  day.  Serve 
with  sliced  lemon.  Some  lay  the  slices  upon  the  top  of  the 
soup,  but  the  better  plan  is  to  pass  to  the  guests  a  small  dish 
containing  these. 

This  has  been  well  called  the  "king  of  soups,"  and  is 
actually  more  delicious  than  the  real  turtle  soup.  It  is  hoped 
no  one  will  be  afraid  to  undertake  the  preparation  of  it  on 
account  of  the  apparently  tedious  and  delicate  mode  I  have 
described.  If  the  directions  be  closely  followed,  the  result  is 
sure  to  be  satisfactory,  and  the  j;ask  is  really  much  less  trouble- 
some than  it  appears  to  be. 

GiBLET  Soup. 

Feet,  neck,  pinions,  and  giblets  of  three  chickens,  or  of  two 
ducks  or  two  geese, 
lb.  veal, 
lb.  ham. 
3  qts.  water. 

Crack  the  bones  into  small  pieces,  chop  the  giblets  (not 
very  fine)  and  cut  the  meat  into  strips.  Put  all  together  over 
the  fire,  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  and  a  pinch  of  allspice. 
Stew  slowly  for  two  hours.  Pick  out  the  giblets  with  a  skim- 
mer or  fork,  and  set  them  aside  in  a  pan  where  they  will  keep 
warm.    Take  up  a  teacupful  of  the  hot  soup  and  stir  into  this 


16 


COMMON  SENSE. 


a  large  tablespoonful  of  flour  which  has  been  wet  with  cold 
water  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste ;  then,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter.    Return  to  the  pot  and  boil  for  fifteen  minntes ; 
season  at  the  last  with  a  glass  of  brown  sherry  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  tomato  or  walnut  catsup.    A  little  Worcestershire 
sauce  is  an  improvement.    Finally,  add  the  giblets,  and  serve. 
Chicken  Soup,  t 
2  young  fowls,  or  one  full-grown. 
^  lb.  ham. 
I  gallon  of  water. 

Cut  the  fowls  into  pieces  as  for  fricassee.  Put  these  with 
the  ham  into  a  pot  with  a  quart  of  water,  or  enough  to  cover 
them  fairly.  Stew  for  an  hour,  if  the  fowls  are  tender;  if 
tough,  until  you  can  cut  easily  into  the  breast.  Take  out  the 
breasts,  leaving  the  rest  of  the  meat  in  the  pot,  and  add  the 
remainder  of  the  water — boiling  hot.  Keep  the  soup  stewing 
slowly  while  you  chop  up  the  white  meat  you  have  selected. 
Rub  the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs  smooth  in  a  mortar  or 
bowl,  moistening  to  a  paste  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  soup. 
Mix  with  these  a  handful  of  fine  bread-crumbs  and  the  chopped 
meat,  and  make  it  into  small  balls.  When  the  soup  has  boiled, 
in  all,  two  hours  and  a  half,  if  the  chicken  be  reduced  to 
shreds,  strain  out  the  meat  and  bones.  Season  with  salt  and 
white  pepper,  with  a  bunch  of  chopped  parsley.  Drop  in  the 
prepared  forced  meat,  and  after  boiling  ten  minutes  to  incor- 
porate the  ingredients  well,  add,  a  little  at  a  time,  a  pint  of 
rich  milk  thickened  with  flour.    Boil  up  once  and  serve. 

A  chicken  at  least  a  year  old  would  make  better  soup  than 
a  younger  fowl. 

Venison  Soup.  J 
3  lbs.  of  venison.     What  are  considered  the  inferior 

pieces  will  do. 
I  lb.  ham  or  salt  pork. 
I  onion. 

I  head  of  celery. 


MEAT  SOUPS. 


17 


Cut  up  the  meat;  chop  the  vegetables,  land  put  on  with  just 
enough  water  to  cover  them,  keeping  on  the  lid  of  the  pot  all 
the  while,  and  stew  slowly  for  one  hour.  Then  add  two  quarts 
of  boiling  water,  with  a  few  blades  of  mace  and  a  dozen  whole 
peppers.  Or,  should  you  prefer,  a  little  cayenne.  Boil  two 
hours  longer,  salt,  and  strain.  Return  the  liquor  to  the  pot ; 
stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
browned  flour  wet  into  a  smooth  thin  paste  with  cold  water ; 
add  a  tablespoonful  walnut  or  mushroom  catsup,  a  teaspoonful 
of  Worcestershire  or  other  pungent  sauce,  and  a  generous 
glass  of  Madeira  or  brown  sherry. 

Hare  or  Rabbit  Soup. 

Dissect  the  rabbit,  crack  the  bones,  and  prepare  precisely 
as  you  would  the  venison  soup,  only  putting  in  three  small 
onions  instead  of  one,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Hares 
which  are  too  tough  to  be  cooked  in  any  other  way,  make  ex- 
cellent game  soup.  Also,  the  large  gray  squirrel  of  the  Middle 
and  Southern  States. 

I  have  eaten  squirrel  soup  that  was  really  delicious. 

Ox-Tail  Soup. 

1  ox-tail. 

2  lbs.  lean  beef. 
4  carrots. 

3  onions. 
Thyme. 

Cut  the  tail  into  several  pieces  and  fry  brown  in  butter. 
Slice  the  onions  and  carrots,  and  when  you  remove  the  ox-tail 
from  the  frying-pan,  put  in  these  and  brown  also.  When  done, 
tie  them  in  a  bag  with  a  bunch  of  thyme  and  drop  into  the. 
soup-pot.  Lay  the  pieces  of  ox-tail  in  the  same;  then  the 
meat  cut  into  small  slices.  Grate  over  them  the  two  whole 
carrots,  and  add  four  quarts  of  cold  water,  with  pepper  and 
B 


18 


COMMON  SENSE. 


salt.  Boil  from  four  to  six  hours  in  proportion  to  the  size  of 
the  tail.  Strain  fifteen  minutes  before  serving  it,  and  thicken 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  browned  flour.  Boil  ten  minutes 
longer. 


FISH  SOUPS. 

Oyster  Soup.  I 

2  qts.  of  oysters. 

1  qt.  of  milk.  • 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
I  teacupful  water. 


Strain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  add  to  it  the  water,  and 
set  it  over  the  fire  to  heat  slowly  in  a  covered  vessel.  When 
it  is  near  boiling,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  in  tha 
milk,  after  which  stir  constantly,  unless,  as  is  wisest,  you  heat 
the  liquor  in  a  vessel  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  When  the 
soup  again  nears  the  boiling-point,  add  the  oysters,  and  let 
them  stew  until  they  "ruffle"  on  the  edge.  This  will  be  in 
about  five  minutes.  Then  put  in  the  butter  and  stir  well  until 
it  is  melted,  when  the  soup  is  ready  for  use. 

Serve  with  sliced  lemon  and  oyster  or  cream  crackers.  Some 
use  mace  and  nutmeg  in  seasoning.  The  crowning  excellence 
in  oyster  soup  is  to  have  it  cooked  just  enough.  Too  much 
stewing  ruins  the  bivalves,  while  an  underdone  oyster  is  a 
flabby  abomination.  The  plumpness  of  the  main  body  and 
ruffled  edge  are  good  indices  of  their  right  condition. 


Clam  Soup. 

50  clams. 
I  qt.  milk. 

1  pint  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 


FISH  SOUPS. 


19 


If  you  cannot  buy  the  clams  already  opened,  put  them  in  a 
large  pan  or  tray,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them.  This 
will  open  the  shells.  Take  them  out  as  fast  as  they  unclose, 
that  you  may  save  all  the  liquor  they  contain.  Drain  off  this 
and  put  it  over  the  fire  with  a  dozen  whole  peppers,  a  few  bits 
of  cayenne  pods,  half  a  dozen  blades  of  mace,  and  salt  to 
taste.  Let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  put  in  the  clams  and 
boil  half  an  hour  quite  fast,  keeping  the  pot  closely  covered. 
If  you  dislike  to  see  the  whole  spices  in  the  tureen,  strain 
them  out  before  the  clams  are  added.  At  the  end  of  the 
half  hour  add  the  milk,  which  has  been  heated  to  scalding, 
not  boiling,  in  another  vessel.  Boil  up  again,  taking  care  the 
soup  does  not  burn,  and  put  in  the  butter.  Then  serve  with- 
out delay.  If  you  desire  a  thicker  soup,  stir  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  rice-flour  into  a  little  cold  milk,  and  put  in  with 
the  quart  of  hot. 

Cat-fish  Soup.  | 

Few  persons  are  aware  into  what  a  variety  of  tempting 
dishes  this  much-abused  fish  can  be  made.  Those  who  have 
only  seen  the  bloated,  unsightly  creatures  that  play  the  scaven- 
gers about  city  wharves,  are  excusable  for  entertaining  a  preju- 
dice against  them  as  an  article  of  food.  But  the  small  cat- 
fish of  our  inland  lakes  and  streams  are  altogether  respectable, 
except  in  their  unfortunate  name. 

6  cat-fish,  in  average  weight  half  a  pound  apiece. 
^  lb.  salt  pork. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

I  head  of  celery,  or  a  small  bag  of  celery-seed. 

Skin  and  clean  the  fish  and  cut  them  up.  Chop  the  pork 
into  small  pieces.  Put  these  together  into  the  pot,  with  two 
quarts  of  water,  chopped  sweet  herbs  and  the  celery  season- 
ing. Boil  for  an  hour,  or  until  fish  and  pork  are  in  rags,  and 
strain,  if  you  desire  a  regular  soup  for  a  first  course.  Return 


20 


COMMON  SENSE. 


to  the  saucepan  and  add  the  milk,  which  should  be  already 
hot.  Next  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  a  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  up  once,  and  serve  with  dice  of 
toasted  bread  on  the  top.  Pass  sliced  lemon,  or  walnut  or 
butternut  pickles  with  it. 

Eel  Soup. 

Eel  soup  is  made  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  cat-fish, 
only  boiled  longer.  A  chopped  onion  is  no  detriment  to  the 
flavor  of  either,  and  will  remove  the  muddy  taste  which  these 
fish  sometimes  acquire  from  turbid  streams. 

LpBSTER  Soup. 

2  qts.  veal  or  chicken  broth,  well  strained. 

1  large  lobster. 

2  eggs — boiled  hard. 

Boil  the  lobtser  and  extract  the  meat,  setting  aside  the 
coral  in  a  cool  place.  Cut  or  chop  up  the  meat  found  in  the 
claws.  Rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  paste  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter.  Pound  and  rub  the  claw-meat  in  the  same  man- 
ner, and  iTiix  with  the  yolks.  Beat  up  a  raw  egg,  and  stir  into 
the  paste ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and,  if  you  like,  mace ; 
make  into  force-meat  balls,  and  set  away  with  the  coral  to  cool 
and  harden.  By  this  time  the  stock  should  be  well  heated, 
when  put  in  the  rest  of  the  lobster  meat  cut  into  square  bits. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes,  which  time  employ  in  pounding  the  coral 
in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  or  earthenware  bowl,  rubbing  it  into 
a  fine,  even  paste,  with  the  addition  of  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the 
broth,  gradually  working  in  until  it  is  about  the  consistency 
of  boiled  starch.  Stir  very  carefully  into  the  hot  soup,  which 
should,  in  the  process,  blush  into  a  roseate  hue.  Lastly,  drop 
in  the  force-meat  balls,  after  which  do  not  stir,  lest  they  should 
break.  Simmer  a  few  minutes  to  cook  the  ra.w  egg  •  but,  if 
allowed  to  boil,  the  soup  will  darken. 


FISH  SOUPS. 


21 


Crab  soup  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  excepting  the 
coralHne  process,  crabs  being  destitute  of  that  dainty. 

Green  Turtle  Soup. 
A  glass  of  Madeira. 
2  onions. 

Bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 
5  qts.  of  water. 

Chop  up  the  coarser  parts  of  the  turtle-meat,  with  the  entrails 
and  bones.  Add  to  them  four  quarts  of  water,  and  stew  four 
hours  with  the  herbs,  onions,  pepper,  and  salt.  Stew  very 
slowly,  but  do  not  let  it  cease  to  boil  during  this  time.  At  the 
end  of  four  hours  strain  the  soup,  and  add  the  finer  parts  of 
the  turtle  and  the  green  fat,  which  has  been  simmered  for  one 
hour  in  two  quarts  of  water.  Thicken  with  browned  flour ; 
return  to  the  soup-pot,  and  simmer  gently  an  hour  longer.  If 
there  are  eggs  in  the  turtle,  boil  them  in  a  separate  vessel  for 
four  hours,  and  throw  into  the  soup  before  taking  it  up.  If 
not,  put  in  force-meat  balls  ;  then  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and 
the  wine,  beat  up  once  and  pour  out.  Some  cooks  add  the  finer 
meat  before  straining,  boiling  all  together  five  hours;  then 
strain,  thicken,  and  put  in  the  green  fat,  cut  into  lumps  an  inch 
long.    This  makes  a  handsomer  soup  than  if  the  meat  is  left  in. 

For  the  mock  eggs,  take  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  one  raw  egg  well  beaten.  Rub  the  boiled  eggs  into  a 
paste  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  bind  with  the  raw  egg,  roll 
into  pellets  the  size  and  shape  of  turtle-eggs,  and  lay  in  boiling 
water  for  two  minutes  before  dropping  into  the  soup. 

Force-meat  balls  for  the  above. 

Six  tablespoonfuls  turtle-meat  chopped  very  fine.  Rub  to  a 
paste  with  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  ;  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  and,  if  convenient,  a  little  oyster-liquor.  Season  with 
cayenne,  mace,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar.  Bind 
with  a  well-beaten  egg;  shape  into  balls,  dip  in  egg,  then 


22 


COMMON  SENSE. 


powdered  cracker,  fry  in  butter,  and  drop  into  the  soup  when 
it  is  served. 

Mock  turtle  for  soups  is  now  within  the  reach  of  every  pri 
vate  family,  being  well  preserved  in  air-tight  cans. 


FISH. 


Boiled  Codfish.    {Fresh.)  % 

Lay  the  fish  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted,  for  half  an  hour 
before  it  is  time  to  cook  it.  Wipe  it  dry  and  put  it  into  the 
fish-kettle  with  water  enough  to  cover  it,  in  which  has  been 
dissolved  a  little  salt.  Let  it  boil  quite  briskly.  A  piece  of 
cod  weighing  three  pounds  will  be  cooked  in  half  an  hour  from 
the  time  the  water  fairly  boils,  if  put  in  without  a  cloth.  But 
by  far  the  better  plan  is,  when  the  cod  has  been  wiped  free  of 
the  salt  and  water,  to  wrap  it  in  a  clean  linen  cloth  kept  for 
such  purposes.  The  cloth  should  be  dredged  with  flour,  to 
prevent  sticking.  Sew  up  the  edges  in  such  a  manner  as  to 
envelop  the  fish  entirely,  yet  have  but  one  thickness  of  the 
cloth  over  any  part.  The  wrapping  should  be  fitted  neatly  to 
the  shape  of  the  piece  to  be  cooked.  Fish  cooked  thus  will 
require  twice  as  long  to  boil  as  when  put  into  the  water  with- 
out such  protection ;  but  the  flavor  is  better  preserved,  and 
when  unwrapped  it  will  not  present  the  sodden  appearance 
and  crumbling  gram  that  disfigure  most  boiled  fish. 

Have  ready  a  sauce  prepared  thus  :  — 

To  one  gill  boiling  water  add  as  much  milk,  and  when  it  is 
scalding-hot,  stir  in — leaving  the  sauce-pan  on  the  fire — two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  Httle  at  a  time  that  it  may  melt 
without  oiling,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  previously  wet  with 
cold  water,  and,  as  this  thickens,  two  beaten  eggs.  Season 
with  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  and  when,  after  one  good  boil, 


FISH. 


23 


you  withdraw  it  from  the  fire,  add  a  dozen  capers,  or  pickled 
nasturtium  seeds,  or,  if  you  prefer,  a  spoon^Jil  of  vinegar  in 
which  celery-seeds  have  been  steeped.  Put  the  fish  into  a  hot 
dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it.  Some  serve  in  a  butter-boat ; 
but  I  fancy  that  the  boiUng  sauce  applied  to  the  steaming  fish 
imparts  a  richness  it  cannot  gain  later.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of 
parsley  and  circles  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  laid  around  the  edge  of 
the  dish. 

ROCKFISH. 

Rockfish  and  river-bass  are  very  nice,  cooked  as  above,  but 
do  not  need  to  be  boiled  as  long  as  codfish. 

Boiled  Codfish.  (Salt) 

Put  the  fish  to  soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  water — as  early 
as  eight  o'clock  in  the  evening.  Change  this  for  more  warm 
water  at  bed-time  and  cover  closely.  Change  again  in  the 
morning  and  wash  off"  the  salt.  Two  hours  before  dinner  take 
out  the  cod,  examine  to  see  that  no  crystals  of  salt  adhere  to 
the  under  part,  and  plunge  into  very  cold  water.  This  makes 
it  firm.  Finally,  set  over  the  fire  with  enough  lukewarm  water 
to  cover  it,  and  boil  for  half  an  hour.  Drain  well ;  lay  it  in  a 
hot  dish,  and  pour  over  it  egg  sauce  prepared  in  the  foregoing 
receipt,  only  substituting  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  rub- 
bed to  a  paste  with  butter,  for  the  beaten  raw  egg. 

This  is  a  useful  receipt  for  country  housekeepers  who  can 
seldom  procure  fresh  cod.  Salt  mackerel,  prepared  in  the  same 
way,  will  well  repay  the  care  and  time  required,  so  superior  is 
it  to  the  Friday's  dish  of  salt  fish,  as  usually  served. 

Should  the  codfish  left  over  be  used  for  fish  balls — as  it 
should  be — it  will  be  found  that  the  sauce  which  has  soaked 
into  it  while  hot  has  greatly  improved  it. 

Codfish  Balls.  X 
Prepare  the  fish  precisely  as  for  boiling  whole.    Cut  in 
.  pieces  when  it  has  been  duly  washed  and  soaked,  and  boil 


24 


COMMON  SENSE. 


twenty  minutes.  Turn  off  the  water,  and  cover  with  fresh  wat- 
er from  the  boiHng  tea-kettle.  Boil  twenty  minutes  more, 
drain  the  fish  very  dry,  and  spread  upon  a  dish  to  cool.  When 
perfectly  cold,  pick  to  pieces  with  a  fork,  removing  every  ves- 
tage  of  skin  and  bone  and  shredding  very  fine.  When  this  is 
done,  add  an  equal  bulk  of  mashed  potato,  work  into  a  stiff 
batter  by  adding  a  lump  of  butter  and  sweet  milk,  and  if  you 
want  to  have  them  very  nice,  a  beaten  egg.  Flour  your  hands 
and  make  the  mixture  into  balls  or  cakes.  Drop  them  into 
boihng  lard  or  good  dripping,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Plain- 
er fish-cakes  may  be  made  of  the  cod  and  potatoes  alone, 
moulded  round  like  biscuit.    In  any  shape  the  dish  is  popular. 

It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  recommend  the  desiccated  cod- 
fish put  up  in  boxes  by  the  Boston  and  Philadelphia  Salt  Fish 
Company.  The  fish  is  already  cooked  and  shred,  and  the 
housekeeper  is  thus  saved  the  only  disagreeable  part  of  the 
process  of  making  this  delightful  breakfast  relish —  the  boiling 
and  the  unsavory  odor  arising  therefrom,  as  well  as  the  care  of 
soaking  and  picking  out  the  fish.  The  balls  prepared  from 
the  desiccated  fish  are  every  whit  equal  in  flavor  to  those  made 
of  the  home-cooked,  and  can  be  ready  at  half  an  hour's  no- 
tice. The  cost  is  not  more — perhaps  less,  than  when  one 
buys  the  cod  in  bulk,  bones  and  all. 

Boiled  Mackerel.  {Fresh.)  % 

Clean  the  mackerel  and  wipe  carefully  with  a  dry,  clean 
cloth  ;  wash  them  lightly  with  another  cloth  dipped  in  vinegar  ; 
wrap  each  in  a  course  linen  cloth  (floured)  basted  closely  to 
the  shape  of  the  fish.  Put  them  into  a  pot  with  enough  salted 
water  to  cover  them,  and  boil  them  gently  for  half  an  hour. 
Drain  them  well.  Take  a  teacupful  of  the  water  in  which  they 
were  boiled,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
walnut  catsup,  some  anchovy  paste  or  sauce,  and  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.  Let  this  boil  up  well  and  add  a  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  wet  in 


FISH. 


25 


cold  water.  Boil  up  again  and  serve  in  the  sauce-boat.  This 
makes  a  brown  sauce.  You  can  substitute  egg-sauce  if  you 
like.    Garnish  with  parsley  and  nasturtium  blossoms. 

Boiled  Mackerel.  (Salt.) 

Soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  w^ater.  Change  this  early  in 
the  morning  for  very  cold,  and  let  the  fish  lie  in  this  until  time 
to  cook.    Then  proceed  as  with  fresh  mackerel. 

Boiled  Halibut.  | 

Lay  in  cold  salt  and  water  for  an  hour.  Wipe  dry  and  score 
the  skin  in  squares.  Put  into  the  kettle  with  cold  salted  water 
enough  to  cover  it.  It  is  so  firm  in  texture  that  you  can 
boil  without  a  cloth  if  you  choose.  Let  it  heat  gradually, 
and  boil  from  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  in  proportion 
to  the  size  of  the  piece.  Four  or  five  pounds  will  be  enough 
for  most  private  families.  Drain  and  accompany  by  egg-sauce 
— either  poured  over  the  fish,  or  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Save  the  cold  remnants  of  the  fish  and  what  sauce  is  left 
until  next  morning.  Pick  out  as  you  would  cod,  mix  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  mashed  potato,  moisten  with  the  sauce,  or 
milk  and  butter  if  you  have  no  sauce,  put  into  a  skillet,  and 
stir  until  it  is  very  hot.  Do  not  let  it  burn.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt. 

Baked  Halibut.  % 

Take  a  piece  of  halibut  weighing  five  or  six  pounds,  and  lay 
in  salt  water  for  two  hours.  Wipe  dry  and  score  the  outer 
skin.  Set  in  the  baking-pan  in  a  tolerably  hot  oven,  and  bake 
an  hour,  basting  often  with  butter  and  water  heated  together 
in  a  saucepan  or  tin  cup.  When  a  fork  will  penetrate  it  easily  it 
is  done.  It  should  be  of  a  fine  brown.  Take  the  gravy  in  the 
dripping-pan — add  a  little  boiling  water  should  there  not  be 
enough — stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  walnut  catsup,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  thicken 


26 


COMMON  SENSE. 


with  browned  flour  previously  wet  with  cold  water.  Boil  up 
once  and  put  into  sauce-boat. 

There  is  no  finer  preparation  of  halibut  than  this,  which  is 
however,  comparatively  little  known.  Those  who  have  eaten 
it  usually  prefer  it  to  boiled  and  broiled.  You  can  use 
what  is  left  for  the  same  purpose  as  the  fragments  of  boiled 
halibut. 

Halibut  Steak.  J 

Wash  and  wipe  the  steaks  dry.  Beat  up  two  or  three  eggs, 
and  roll  out  some  Boston  or  other  brittle  crackers  upon  the 
kneading-board  until  they  are  fine  as  dust.  Dip  each  steak 
into  the  beaten  egg,  then  into  the  bread  crumbs  (when  you 
have  salted  the  fish),  and  fry  in  hot  fat,  lard,  or  nice  dripping. 

Or,  you  can  broil  the  steak  upon  a  buttered  gridiron,  over 
a  clear  fire,  first  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  done, 
lay  in  a  hot  dish,  butter  well,  and  cover  closely. 

Boiled  Salmon.  {Fresh.)  % 
Wrap  the  fish,  when  you  have  washed  and  wiped  it,  in  a 
clean  linen  cloth — not  too  thick — baste  it  up  securely,  and  put 
into  the  fish-kettle.  Cover  with  cold  water  in  which  has  been 
melted  a  handful  of  salt.  Boil  slowly,  allowing  about  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  to  each  pound.  When  the  time  is  up,  rip  open  a 
corner  of  the  cloth  and  test  the  salmon  with  a  fork.  If  it 
penetrate  easily,  it  is  done.  If  not,  hastily  pin  up  the  cloth 
and  cook  a  little  longer.  Skim  off  the  scum  as  it  rises  to  the 
top.  Have  ready  in  another  sauce-pan  a  pint  of  cream— or 
half  milk  and  half  cream  will  do — which  has  been  heated  in  a 
vessel  set  in  boiling  water ;  stir  into  this  a  large  spoonful  of 
butter,  a  little  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  and  a  half-gill  of 
the  water  in  which  the  fish  is  boiled.  Let  it  boil  up  once, 
stirring  all  the  while — or,  what  is  better,  do  not  remove  from 
the  inner  vessel.  When  the  fish  is  done,  take  it  instantly 
from  the  kettle,  lay  it  an  instant  upon  a  folded  cloth  to  absorb 
the  droppings ;  transfer  with  great  care,  for  fear  of  breaking, 


FISH. 


27 


to  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  the  boiled  cream  over  it,  reservmg 
enough  to  fill  a  small  sauce-boat.  Garnish  with  curled  parsley 
and  circular  slices  of  hard-boiled  yolks— leaving  out  the  whites 
of  the  eggs. 

After  serving  boiled  salmon  with  cream-sauce,  you  will  never 
be  quite  content  with  any  other.  If  you  cannot  get  cream, 
boil  a  pint  of  milk  and  thicken  with  arrow-root.  It  is  not  so 
nice,  but  many  will  not  detect  the  difference— r^^/ cream  being 
a  rare  commodity  in  town. 

You  may  pickle  what  is  left,  if  it  is  in  one  piece.  Or  devil 
it,  as  I  have  directed  you  to  treat  cold  halibut.  Or  mmce, 
m'ix  with  mashed  potato,  milk,  and  butter,  and  stir  into  a  sort, 
of  stew.  Or,  once  again,  mix  with  mashed  potato,  milk, 
butter,  and  a  raw  egg  well-beaten ;  make  into  cakes  or  balls, 
and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  dripping.  At  any  rate  let  none  of  it  be 
lost,  it  being  at  once  one  of  our  most  expensive  and  most 
delicious  fish. 

Baked  Salmon.  X 

Wash  and  wipe  dry,  and  rub  with  pepper  and  salt.  Some 
add  a  soupcon  of  cayenne  and  powdered  mace.    Lay  the  fish 
upon  a  grating  set  over  your  baking-pan,  and  roast  or  bake, 
basting  it  freely  with  butter,  and,  toward  the  last,  with  its  own 
drippings  only.    Should  it  brown  too  fast,  cover  the  top  with 
a  sheet  of  white  paper  until  the  whole  is  cooked.    When  it  is 
done,  transfer  to  a  hot  dish  and  cover  closely,  and  add  to  the 
gravy  a  little  hot  water  thickened  with  arrow-root,  rice,  or 
wheat  flour,— wet,  of  course,  first  with  cold  water,— a  great 
spoonful  of  light  tomato  sauce,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Boil  up  and  serve  in  a  sauce-boat,  or  you  can  serve  with  cream 
sauce,  made  as  for  boiled  salmon.    Garnish  handsomely  with 
alternate  sprigs  of  parsley  and  the  bleached  tops  of  celery, 
with  ruby  bits  of  firm  currant  jelly  here  and  there.    This  is  a 
fine  dish  for  a  dinner-party.    A  glass  of  sherry  improves  the 
first-named  sauce. 


28 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Salmon  Steaks.  | 

Dry  well  with  a  cloth,  dredge  with  flour,  and  lay  them  upon 
a  well-buttered  gridiron,  over  clear  hot  coals.  Turn  with  a 
broad-bladed  knife  slipped  beneath,  and  a  flat  wire  egg-beater 
above,  lest  the  steak  should  break.  When  done  to  a  light 
brown,  lay  in  a  hot  dish,  butter  each  steak,  seasoning  with  salt 
and  pepper,  cover  closely,  and  serve. 

Pickled  Salmon.    {Fresh)  % 

Having  cleaned  your  fish,  cut  into  pieces  of  a  convenient 
size  to  go  into  the  fish-kettle,  and  boil  in  salted  water  as  for 
the  table.  Drain  it  very  dry,  wipe  it  with  a  clean  cloth,  and 
set  it  aside  until  next  morning. 

Make  pickle  enough  to  cover  it  in  the  following  proportions  : 
2  quarts  vinegar,  a  dozen  blades  of  mace,  dozen  white  peppers, 
dozen  cloves,  two  teaspoonfuls  made  mustard,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  white  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  the  water  in  which  the  fish 
was  boiled.  Let  them  boil  up  once  hard,  that  you  may  skim 
the  pickle.  Should  the  spices  come  away  with  the  skum  in 
large  quantities,  pick  them  out  and  return  to  the  kettle.  Set 
the  liquor  away  in  an  earthenware  jar,  closely  covered  to  keep 
in  the  flavor.  Next  morning  hang  it  over  a  brisk  fire  in  a  bell- 
melal  kettle  (covered),  and  heat  to  boiling.  Meanwhile,  pre- 
pare the  salmon  by  cutting  into  pieces  an  inch  and  a  half  long 
and  half  an  inch  wide.  Cut  cleanly  and  regularly  with  a  sharp 
knife.  When  they  are  all  ready,  and  the  liquor  is  on  the  boil 
drop  them  carefully  into  the  kettle.  Let  the  pickle  boil  up 
once  to  make  sure  the  salmon  is  heated  through.  Have  ready 
some  air-tight  glass  jars,  such  as  you  use  for  canning  fruit  and 
tomatoes.  Take  the  salmon  from  the  kettle,  while  it  is  still  on 
the  stove  or  range,  with  a  wire  egg-beater,  taking  care  you  do 
not  break  the  pieces.  Drop  them  rapidly  into  the  jar,  packing 
closely  as  you  go  on ;  fill  with  the  boiling  pickle  until  it  overflows^ 
screw  on  the  top,  and  set  away  in  a  dark,  cool  place.  Proceed 


FISH.  29 

in  the  same  way  with  each  can  until  all  are  full.  Salmon  thus 
putup  willkeepgoodforjw^,  asl  can  testify  from  experi- 
ence, and  will  well  repay  the  trouble  of  preparation.  You  can 
vary  the  seasoning  to  your  taste,  adding  a  shallot  or  two 
minced  very  fine,  some  celery  and  small  pods  of  cayenne 
pepper,  which  always  look  well  in  vinegar. 

Be  sure  that  the  contents  of  the  kettle  are  boiling  when 
transferred  to  the  cans,  that  they  are  not  allowed  time  to  cool  in 
the  transit,  that  the  elastic  on  the  can  is  properly  adjusted,  and 
the  top  screwed  down  tightly,  and  success  is  certain.  I 
would  call  the  attention  of  those  who  are  fond  of  the  potted 
spiced  salmon,  sold  at  a  high  price  in  grocery-stores,  to  this 
receipt  for  making  the  same  luxury  at  home.  It  costs  less  by 
one-half,  is  as  good,  and  is  always  on  hand. 

Pickled  Salmon.  {Salt.) 
At  certain  seasons  of  the  year  fresh  salmon  cannot  be  pro. 
cured,  even  by  the  dwellers  in  cities,  while  those  who  live  in 
the  country  sometimes  do  not  see  it  from  one  year's  end 
to  the  other.  But  dried  salmon  can  always  be  had  in  any 
tolerably  well-kept  grocery,  and  a  very  nice  relish  prepared 
from  it. 

Wash  the  salmon  in  two  or  three  waters,  rubbing  it  lightly 
with  a  coarse  cloth  to  remove  the  salt-crystals.  Then  soak 
over  night  in  tepid  water.  Exchange  this  in  the  morning  for 
ice-cold,  and  let  the  fish  He  in  the  water  for  three  hours.  Take 
it  out,  wipe  dry,  and  cut  in  strips  as  directed  in  the  foregoing 
receipt.  Drop  these,  when  all  are  ready,  in  a  saucepan  of 
boihng  water,  placed  alongside  of  a  kettle  of  pickle  prepared  as 
for  fresh  salmon.  Beside  these  have  your  air-tight  jars,  covers 
laid  m  readiness,  and  when  the  salmon  has  boiled  five  minutes 
—fairly  boiled,  not  simmered— fish  out  the  pieces  with  your 
wire  spoon,  pack  rapidly  into  your  can  ;  fill  up  with  the  boil- 
ing pickle  from  the  other  kettle,  and  seal  instantly.  In  two 
days  the  pickled  salmon  will  be  fit  for  use,  and  is  scarcely  dis- 


30 


COMMON  SENSE. 


tinguishable  from  that  made  of  fresh  fish.  It  has  the  advan- 
tage of  being  always  procurable,  and  of  comparative  cheapness, 
and  in  the  country  is  a  valuable  stand-by  in  case  of  unexpected 
supper  company. 

Smoked  Salmon.  {Broiled.) 

Take  a  piece  of  raw  smoked  salmon  the  size  of  your  hand, 
or  larger  in  proportion  to  the  number  who  are  to  sit  down  to 
supper.  Wash  it  in  two  waters,  rubbing  off  the  salt.  Lay  in  a 
skillet  with  enough  warm— not  hot— water  to  cover  it ;  let  it 
simmer  fifteen  minutes,  and  boil  five.  Remove  it,  wipe  dr-, 
and  lay  on  a  buttered  gridiron  to  broil.  When  it  is  nicely 
browned  on  both  sides,  transfer  to  a  hot  dish;  butter  liberally, 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Garnish  with  hillocks  of  grated  horse- 
radish interspersed  with  sprays  of  fresh  or  pickled  fennel-seed 
or  with  parsley. 

Raw  smoked  salmon  is  in  common  use  upon  the  supper- 
table,  cut  into  smooth  strips  as  long  as  the  middle  finger,  and 
rather  wider;   arranged  neatly  upon  a  garnished  dish,  and 
eaten  with  pepper-sauce  or  some  other  pungent  condiment. 
Boiled  Shad.    {Fresh;)  % 

Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  the  fish.  A  roe  shad  is  best  for  this 
purpose.  Cleanse  the  roes  thoroughly,  and  having  sprinkled 
both  shad  and  eggs  with  salt,  wrap  in  separate  cloths  and  put 
into  the  fish-kettle,  side  by  side.  Cover  with  salted  water,  and 
boil  from  half  an  hour  to  three-quarters,  in  proportion  to  the 
size.  Experience  is  the  best  rule  as  to  the  time.  When  you 
have  once  cooked  fish  to  a  turn,  note  the  weight  and  time, 
and  you  will  be  at  no  loss  thereafter.  A  good  rule  is  to  nmke 
a  pencilled  memorandum  in  the  margin  of  the  receipt-book 
opposite  certain  receipts. 

Serve  the  shad  upon  a  hot  dish,  with  a  boat  of  drawn  butter 
mingled  with  chopped  egg  and  parsley,  or  egg-sauce.  Lay  the 
roes  about  the  body  of  the  fish.  Garnish  with  capers  and 
slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 


FISH. 


31 


Boiled  Shad.  {Salt.) 

In  those  States  where  shad  are  plenty  they  are  salted  and 
used  freely,  as  are  salt  mackerel  elsewhere.  They  form  a  de- 
lightful breakfast-dish,  and  are  welcome  on  the  supper-table 
on  winter  nights. 

Soak  the  fish  six  or  seven  hours  in  warm  water,  changing  it 
several  times  ;  wipe  off  all  the  salt  and  immerse  in  ice-cold 
water.  When  it  has  lain  in  this  an  hour,  put  into  a  fish-kettle 
with  enough  fresh  water  to  cover  it,  and  boil  from  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes,  in  proportion  to  the  size.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish, 
with  a  large  lump  of  butter  spread  over  the  fish. 

Broiled  Shad.  {Fresh.) 

Wash,  wipe,  and  split  the  fish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  lay  it  upon  a  buttered  gridiron,  inside  downward. 
When  the  lower  side  is  browned  turn  the  fish.  One  of  the 
medium  size  will  be  done  in  about  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
upon  a  hot  dish,  and  lay  a  good  piece  of  butter  upon  the  fish. 

Broiled  Shad.  (Salt.)  % 

Soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  water.  Take  out  in  the  morn- 
ing and  transfer  to  ice-cold  for  half  an  hour.  Wipe  very  dry, 
and  broil  as  you  do  fresh  shad. 

Baked  Shad.  | 

Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  the  fish,  which  should  be  a  large  one. 
Make  a  stuffing  of  grated  bread-crumbs  steeped  in  sweet  milk, 
butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  sweet  herbs,  moistened  with  a  beaten 
egg.  Stuff  the  shad  and  sew  it  up.  Lay  it  in  the  baking-pan, 
with  a  cupful  of  water  to  keep  it  from  burning,  and  bake  an 
hour,  basting  with  butter  and  water,  until  it  is  tender  through- 
out and  well  browned.  Take  it  up,  put  in  a  hot  dish  and 
cover  tightly,  while  you  boil  up  the  gravy  with  a  great  spoon- 
ful of  catsup,  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  which  has  been 


32 


COMMON  SENSE. 


wet  with  cold  water,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and,  if  you  want  to 
have  it  very  fine,  a  glass  of  sherry  or  Maderia.  Garnish  with  \ 
sliced  lemon  and  water-cresses.  You  may  pour  the  gravy 
around  the  fish,  or  serve  in  a  sauce-boat.  Of  course  you  take 
out  the  thread  with  which  it  has  been  sewed  up  before  serving 
the  fish. 

Boiled  Sea-Bass. 

Clean  and  put  the  fish  into  the  fish-kettle,  with  salted  water 
enough  to  cover  it  when  you  have  enveloped  it  in  the  fish- 
cloth.  A  medium-sized  fish  will  be  done  in  a  little  over  half  1 
an  hour.  But  do  not  boil  too  fast.  When  done,  drain  and 
serve  in  a  hot  dish.  Lay  sliced  boiled  eggs  upon  and  about  it, 
and  serve  with  egg-sauce,  mingled  with  capers  or  nasturtium 
seed. 

Fried  Sea-Bass. 

Use  smaller  fish  for  thus  purpose  than  for  boiling.  Clean, 
wipe  dry,  inside  and  out,  dredge  with  flour  and  season  with 
salt.  Fry  in  hot  butter  or  dripping.  A  mixture,  half  butter, 
half  lard,  is  good  for  frying  fish.  The  bass  should  be  done  to 
a  delicate  brown — not  to  a  crisp.  The  fashion  affected  by 
some  cooks  of  drying  fried  fish  to  a  crust  is  simply  abominable. 

Fried  bass  are  a  most  acceptable  breakfast  dish. 

Sturgeon  Steak. 

Skin  the  steaks  carefully  and  lay  in  salted  water  (cold)  for 
an  hour,  to  remove  the  oily  taste,  so  offensive  to  most  palates. 
Then  wipe  each  steak  dry,  salt,  and  broil  over  hot  coals  on  a  ■ 
buttered  gridiron.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish  when  you  have  buttered 
and  peppered  them,  and  send  up  garnished  with  parsley  and 
accompanied  by  a  small  glass  dish  containing  sliced  lemon. 

Baked  Sturgeon. 

A  piece  of  sturgeon  weighing  five  or  six  pounds  is  enough 
for  a  handsome  dish,    Skin  it  and  let  it  stand  in  salt  and 


J 


FISH 


33 


water  for  half  an  hour.  Parboil  it  to  remove  the  oil.  Make  a 
dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  minute  bits  of  fat  salt  pork,  sweet 
herbs,  and  butter.  Gash  the  upper  part  of  the  fish  quite  deeply, 
and  rub  this  force-meat  well  in ;  put  in  a  baking-pan  with  a 
little  water  to  keep  it  from  burning,  and  bake  for  an  hour. 

Serve  with  a  sauce  of  drawn  butter,  in  which  has  been 
stirred  a  spoonful  of  caper  sauce  and  another  of  catsup. 

This  is  a  Virginia  receipt,  and  an  admirable  one. 

Mayonnaise.  {Fish.) 

Take  a  pound  or  so  of  cold  boiled  fish  (halibut,  rock,  or 
cod),  cut — not  chop — into  pieces  an  inch  in  length.  Mix  in  a 
bowl  a  dressing  as  follows  :  the  yolks  of  four  boiled  eggs  rub- 
bed to  a  smooth  paste  with  salad  oil ;  add  to  these  salt,  pepper, 
mustard,  two  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  and,  lastly,  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Beat  the  mixture  until  light,  and  just 
before  pouring  it  over  the  fish,  stir  in  lightly  the  frothed  white 
of  a  raw  egg.  Serve  the  fish  in  a  glass  dish,  with  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  half  the  dressing  stirred  in  with  it. 
Spread  the  remainder  over  the  top,  and  lay  blanched  lettuce 
leaves  around  the  edges,  to  be  eaten  with  it. 

Baked  Salmon-Trout.  % 

Those  who  have  eaten  this  prince  of  game  fish  in  the 
Adirondacks,  within  an  hour  after  he  has  left  the  lake,  will 
agree  with  me  that  he  never  has  such  justice  done  him  at  any 
other  time  as  when  baked  with  cream. 

Handle  the  beauty  with  gentle  respect  while  cleaning,  wash- 
ing, and  wiping  him,  and  lay  him  at  full  length,  still  respect- 
fully, in  a  baking-pan,  with  just  enough  water  to  keep  him  from 
scorching.  If  large,  score  the  back-bone  with  a  sharp  knife, 
taking  care  not  to  mar  the  comeliness  of  his  red-spotted  sides. 
Bake  slowly,  basting  often  with  butter  and  water.  By  the  time 
he  is  done— and  he  should  be  so  well  looked  after  that  his 
royal  robe  hardly  shows  a  seam  or  rent,  and  the  red  spots  are 


34 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Still  distinctly  visible— have  ready  in  a  saucepan  a  cup  of 
cream— diluted  with  ^few  spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  lest  it  should 
clot  in  heating— in  which  has  been  stirred  cautiously  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley. 
Heat  this  in  a  vessel  set  within  another  of  boihng  water,  add 
the  gravy  from  the  dripping-pan,  boil  up  once  to  thicken,  and 
when  the  trout  is  laid— always  respectfully—  in  a  hot  dish,  pour 
the  sauces  around  him  as  he  lies  in  state.  He  will  take  kindly 
to  the  creamy  bath,  and  your  guests  will  take  kindly  to  him. 
Garnish  with  a  wreath  of  crimson  nasturtium-blooms  and 
dainty  sprigs  of  parsley,  arranged  by  your  own  hands  on  the 
edge  of  the  dish,  and  let  no  sharply-sj)iced  sauce  come  near 
him.  They  would  but  mar  his  native  richness— the  flavor  he 
brought  v/ith  him  from  the  lake  and  wild-wood.  Salt  him 
lightly,  should  he  need  it,  eat  and  be  happy. 

If  the  above  savor  of  bathos  rather  than  "  common  sense," 
my  excuse  is,  I  have  lately  eaten  baked  salmon-trout  with 
cream-gravy. 

Boiled  Salmon-Trout.  % 
Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  trout;  envelop  in  a  thin  cloth 
fitted  neatly  to  the  shape  of  the  fish,  lay  within  a  fish-kettle, 
cover  with  salted  water  (cold),  and  boil  gently  half  an  hour  or 
longer,  according  to  the  size.  When  done,  unwrap  and  lay  in 
a  hot  dish.  Pour  around  it  cream-sauce  [made  as  for  baked 
salmon-trout— only,  of  course,  with  the  omission  of  the  fish- 
gravy — and  serve. 

Fried  Trout. 

Brook  trout  are  generally  cooked  in  this  way,  and  form  a 
rarely  delightful  breakfast  or  supper  dish. 

Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  fish,  roll  lightly  in  flour,  and  fry 
in  butter  or  clarified  dripping,  or  butter  and  lard.  v^Let  the  fat 
be  hot,  fry  quickly  to  a  delicate  brown,  and  take  up  the  instant 
they  are  done.  Lay  for  an  instant  upon  a  hot  folded  napkin, 
to  absorb  whatever  grease  may  cling  to  their  speckled  sides; 


FISH. 


35 


then  range  side  by  side  in  a  heated  dish,  garnish,  and  send  to 
table.  Use  no  seasoning  except  salt,  and  that  only  when  the 
fish  are  fried  in  lard  or  unsalted  dripping. 

Fried  Pickerel.  | 

The  pickerel  ranks  next  to  trout  among  game-fish,  and 
should  be  fried  in  the  same  manner.  Especially, — and  I  urge 
this  with  groaning  of  spirit,  in  remembrance  of  the  many  times 
in  which  I  have  had  my  sense  of  fitness,  not  to  say  my  appe- 
tite, outraged  by  seeing  the  gallant  fish  brought  to  table  dried 
to  a  crisp  throughout,  all  his  juices  wasted  and  sweetness 
utterly  departed — especially,  do  not  fry  him  slowly  and  too 
long ;  and  when  he  is  done,  take  him  out  of  the  grease  ! 

Cream  Pickerel.  | 

Reserve  your  largest  pickerel — those  over  three  pounds  in 
weight — for  baking,  and  proceed  with  them  as  with  baked 
salmon-trout— cream-gravy  and  all.  If  you  cannot  afford 
cream  substitute  rich  milk,  and  thicken  with  rice  or  wheat 
flour.   The  fish  are  better  cooked  in  this  way  than  any  other. 

Fried  Perch  and  other  Pan-fish 

Clean,  wash  and  dry  the  fish.  Lay  them  in  a  large,  flat  disn, 
salt,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Have  ready  a  frying  pan  of  hot 
dripping,  lard,  or  butter ;  put  in  as  many  fish  as  the  pan  will 
hold  without  crowding,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Send  up  hot 
in  a  chafing  dish. 

The  many  varieties  of  pan-fish— porgies,  flounders,  river  bass, 
weak-fish,  white-fish,  etc.,  may  be  cooked  in  like  manner. 
In  serving  lay  the  head  of  each  fish  to  the  tail  of  the  one  next 
him. 

Fried  Cat-fish.  J 

Skin,  clean,  and  remove  the  heads.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
lay  aside  for  an  hour  or  more.    Have  ready  two  or  three  eggs 


36 


COMMON  SENSE. 


beaten  to  a  froth,  and,  in  a  flat  dish,  a  quantity  of  powdered 
cracker.  Dip  the  fish  first  in  the  egg,  then  in  the  cracker,  and 
fry  quickly  in  hot  iard  or  dripping.     Take  up  as  soon  as  done. 

Cat  fish  cooked  in  this  manner  are  sweet  and  savory  a 

triffle  too  rich  for  delicate  persons,  but  very  nice  for  those  who 
are  blessed  with  good  digestions. 

Stewed  Eels.  J 

Inquire,  before  buying,  where  they  were  caught,  and  give  so 
decided  a  preference  to  country  eels  as  to  refuse  those  fatten- 
ed upon  the  offal  of  city  wharves.  Nor  are  the  largest  eels 
the  best  for  eating.  One  weighing  a  pound  is  better  for  your 
purpose  than  a  bulky  fellow  that  weighs  three. 

Skin  and  clean,  carefully  extracting  all  the  fat  from  the  in- 
side. Cut  into  lengths  of  an  inch  and  a  half;  put  into  a 
saucepan,  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them ;  throw  in  a 
little  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  and  stew  slowly,  closely  cover- 
ed, for  at  least  one  hour.  Add,  at  the  last,  a  great  spoonful 
of  butter,  and  a  Httle  flour  wet  with  cold  water,  also  pepper. 
Serve  in  a  deep  dish.  The  appearance  and  odor  of  this  stew 
are  so  pleasing  as  often  to  overcome  the  prejudices  of  those 
who  "  Wouldn't  touch  an  eel  for  the  world  !  They  look  so 
like  snakes  !"  And  those  who  have  tasted  once  rarely  enter  a 
second  demurrer. 

Fried  Eels. 

Prepare  as  for  stewing ;  roll  in  flour,  and  fry,  in  hot  lard  or 
dripping,  to  a  light  brown. 

Chowder.  | 

Take  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  cut  into  strips,  and  soak  in  hot 
water  five  minutes.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pot  with  a  layer  of 
this.  Cut  four  pounds  of  cod  or  sea-bass  into  pieces  two  inches 
square,  and  lay  enough  of  these  on  the  pork  to  cover  it. 
Follow  with  a  layer  of  chopped  onions,  a  little  parsley,  sum- 
mer savory,  and  pepper,  either  black  or  cayenne.    Then  a  layer 


SHELL-FISH. 


37 


of  split  Boston,  or  butter,  or  whole  cream  crackers,  which 
have  been  soaked  in  warm  water  until  moist  through,  but  not 
ready  to  break.  Above  this  lay  a  stratum  of  pork,  and  repeat 
the  order  given  above — onions,  seasoning  (not  too  much), 
crackers,  and  pork,  until  your  materials  are  exhausted.  Let 
the  topmost  layer  be  buttered  crackers,  well  soaked.  Pour  in 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  all  barely.  Cover  the  pot,  stew 
gently  for  an  hour,  watching  that  the  water  does  not  sink  too 
low.  Should  it  leave  the  upper  layer  exposed,  replenish  cauti- 
ously from  the  boiling  tea-kettle.  When  the  chowder  is  thor- 
oughly done,  take  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer  and  put  into 
a  tureen.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  about  the  same  quantity  of  butter.  Boil  up  and  pour  over 
the  chowder.  Send  sliced  lemon,  pickles,  and  stewed  tomatoes 
to  the  table  with  it,  that  the  guests  may  add,  if  they  like. 


SHELL-FISH. 

To  Boil  a  Lobster. 

Choose  a  lively  one — not  too  large,  lest  he  should  be  tough. 
Put  a  handful  of  salt  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  having 
tied  the  claws  together,  if  your  fish  merchant  has  not  already 
skewered  them,  plunge  him  into  the  prepared  bath.  He  will 
be  restive  under  this  vigorous  hydropathic  treatment ;  but  allay 
your  tortured  sympathies  by  the  reflection  that  he  is  a  cold- 
blooded animal,  destitute  of  imagination,  and  that  pain, 
according  to  some  philosophers,  exists  only  in  the  imagination. 
However  this  may  be,  his  suff'ering  will  be  short-lived.  Boil 
from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour,  as  his  size  demands.  When 
done,  draw  out  the  scarlet  innocent,  and  lay  him,  face  down- 
ward, in  a  sieve  to  dry.  When  cold,  split  open  the  body  and 
tail,  and  crack  the  claws  to  extract  the  meat,  throwing  away 
the  "  lady-fingers"  and  the  head.    Lobsters  are  seldom  served 


38 


COMMON  SENSE. 


without  dressing,  upon  private  tables,  as  few  persons  care  to 
take  the  trouble  of  preparing  their  own  salad  after  taking  their 
seats  at  the  board. 

Lobster  Croquettes.  J 

To  the  meat  of  a  well-boiled  lobster,  chopped  fine,  add 
pepper,  salt,  and  powdered  mace.  Mix  with  this  one-quarter 
as  much  bread-crumbs,  well  rubbed,  as  you  have  meat ;  make 
into  ovates,  or  pointed  balls,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter.  Roll  these  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  pulverized  cracker, 
and  fry  in  butter  or  very  nice  sweet  lard.  Serve  dry  and  hot, 
and  garnish  with  crisped  parsley. 

This  is  a  delicious  supper  dish  or  entree  at  dinner. 

Devilled  Grab.  % 

This  is  prepared  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt — substi- 
tuting for  the  coral  in  the  vinegar  some  pulverized  cracker, 
moistened  first  with  a  tablespoonful  of  rich  cream.  You  can 
serve  up  in  the  back-shell  of  the  crab  if  you  like.  Send  in 
with  cream  crackers,  and  stick  a  sprig  of  parsley  in  the  top  of 
each  heap,  ranging  the  shells  upon  a  large  flat  dish. 

Crab  Salad. 

Mince  the  meat  and  dress  as  a  lobster  salad.  Send  in  the 
back  shell  of  the  crab. 

Stewed  Oysters.  % 
Drain  the  liquor  from  two  quarts  of  firm,  plump  oysters 
mix  with  it  a  small  teacupful  of  hot  water,  add  a  little  salt  and 
pepper,  and  set  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan.  When  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  add  a  large  cupful  of  rich  milk.  (Cream  is  better.) 
Let  it  boil  up  once,  put  in  the  oysters,  let  them  boil  for  five 
minutes  or  less — not  more.  When  they  "ruffle,"  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  the  instant  it  is  melted  and  well 
stirred  in,  take  the  saucepan  from  the  fire.  Serve  with  oyster 
or  cream  crackers,  as  soon  as  possible.    Oysters  become  tough 


SHELL-FISH. 


39 


and  tasteless  when  cooked  too  much,  or  left  to  stand  too  long 
after  they  are  withdrawn  from  the  fire.  A  good  and  safe  plan 
is,  to  heat  the  milk  in  a  separate  vessel  set  in  another  of  hot 
water,  and  after  it  is  mingled  with  the  liquor  and  oysters,  stir 
assiduously  or  it  may  "catch,"  as  the  cooks  say — /.  scorch 
on  the  sides  or  bottom  of  the  saucepan. 

Fried  Oysters.  I 

Use  for  frying  the  largest  and  best  oysters  you  can  find. 
Take  them  carefully  from  the  liquor ;  lay  them  in  rows  upon 
a  clean  cloth,  and  press  another  lightly  upon  them  to  absorb 
the  moisture.  Have  ready  several  beaten  eggs,  and  in 
another  dish  some  crackers  crushed  fine.  In  the  frying-pan 
heat  enough  nice  butter  to  cover  the  oysters  entirely.  Dip 
each  oyster  first  in  the  egg,  then  into  the  cracker,  rolling  it 
over  that  it  may  become  completely  incrusted.  Drop  them 
carefully  into  the  frying-pan  and  fry  quickly  to  a  light 
brown.  If  the  butter  is  hot  enough  they  will  soon  be  ready 
to  take  out.  Test  it  by  putting  in  one  oyster  before  you  risk 
the  rest.  Do  not  let  them  lie  in  the  pan  an  instant  after  they 
are  done.  Serve  dry,  and  let  the  dish  be  warm.  A  chafing- 
dish  is  best. 

Oyster  Fritters.  { 

Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  to  a  cupful  of  this 
add  the  same  quantity  of  milk,  three  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and 
flour  enough  for  a  thin  batter.  Chop  the  oysters  and  stir  into 
the  batter.  Have  ready  in  the  frying-pan  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
lard,  or  half  lard,  half  butter  ;  heat  very  hot,  and  drop  the 
oyster-batter  in  by  the  tablespoonful.  Try  a  spoonful  first, 
to  satisfy  yourself  that  the  lard  is  hot  enough,  and  that  the 
fritter  is  of  the  right  size  and  consistency.  Take  rapidly  from 
the  pan  as  soon  as  they  are  done  to  a  pleasing  yellow-brown, 
and  send  to  table  very  hot. 

Some  fry  the  oyster  whole,  enveloped  in  batter,  one  in  each 


40  COMMON  SENSE. 

fritter.  In  this  case,  the  batter  should  be  thicker  than  if  the 
chopped  oyster  were  to  be  added. 

Scalloped  Oysters.  | 

Crush  and  roll  several  handfuls  of  Boston  or  other  friable 
crackers.  Put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding- 
dish.  Wet  this  with  a  mixture  of  the  oyster  liquor  ^nd  milk, 
slightly  warmed.  Next,  have  a  layer  of  oysters.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  small  bits  of  butter  upon  them. 
Then  another  layer  of  moistened  crumbs,  and  so  on  until  the 
dish  is  full.  Let  the  top  layer  be  of  crumbs,  thicker  than  the 
rest,  and  beat  an  egg  into  the  milk  you  pour  over  them. 
Stick  bits  of  butter  thickly  over  it,  cover  the  dish,  set  it  in  the 
oven,  bake  half  an  hour;  if  the  dish  is  large,  remove  the  cover, 
and  brown  by  setting  it  upon  the  upper  grating  of  oven,  or 
by  holding  a  hot  shovel  over  it. 

Broiled  Oysters.  J 

Choose  large,  fat  oysters;  wipe  them  very  dry;  sprinkle 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper  upon  them,  and  broil  upon  one  of  the 
small  gridirons  sold  for  that  purpose.  You  can  dredge  the 
oyster  with  flour  if  you  wish  to  have  it  brown,  and  some  fancy 
the  juices  are  better  kept  in  in  this  way.  Others  dislike  the 
crust  thus  formed.  Butter  the  gridiron  well,  and  let  your  fire 
be  hot  and  clear.  If  the  oyster  drip,  withdraw  the  gridiron  for 
an  instant  until  the  smoke  clears  away.  Broil  quickly  and 
dish  hot,  putting  a  tiny  piece  of  butter,  not  larger  than  a  pea, 
upon  each  oyster. 

Cream  Oysters  on  the  Half-shell. 

Pour  into  your  inner  saucepan  a  cup  of  hot  water,  another 
of  milk,  and  one  of  cream,  with  a  little  salt.  Set  into  a  kettle 
of  hot  w^ater  until  it  boils,  when  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  a  little  salt,  with  white  pepper.  Take  from  the  fire 
and  add  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  arrow-root,  rice-flour. 


SHELL-FISH. 


41 


or  corn-starch,  wet  with  cold  milk.  By  this  time  your  shells 
should  be  washed  and  buttered,  and  a  fine  oyster  laid  within 
each.  Of  course,  it  is  selon  les  rlgles  to  use  oyster-shells  for 
this  purpose ;  but  you  will  find  clam-shells  more  roomy  and 
more  manageable,  because  more  regular  in  shape.  Range 
these  closely  in  a  large  baking  pan,  propping  them  with  clean 
pebbles  or  fragments  of  shell,  if  they  do  not  seem  inclined  to 
retain  their  contents.  Stir  the  cream  very  hard  and  fill  up 
each  shell  with  a  spoon,  taking  care  not  to  spill  any  in  the 
pan.  Bake  five  or  six  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  after  the  shells 
become  warm.  Serve  on  the  shell.  Some  substitnte  oyster- 
liquor  for  the  water  in  the  mixture,  and  use  all  milk  instead  of 
cream. 

Oyster  Omelet.  % 

12  oysters,  if  large;  double  the  number  of  small  ones. 

6  eggs. 

I  cup  milk. 

I  tablespoonful  butter. 

Chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper. 

Chop  the  oysters  very  finely.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of 
the  eggs  separately  as  for  nice  cake — the  white  until  it  stands 
in  a  heap.  Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan, 
and  heat  while  you  are  mixing  the  omelet.  Stir  the  milk  into 
a  deep  dish  with  the  yolk,  and  season.  Next  put  in  the 
chopped  oysters,  beating  vigorously  as  you  add  them  gradually. 
When  they  are  thoroughly  incorporated,  pour  in  the  spoonful 
of  melted  butter ;  finally,  whip  in  the  whites  lightly  and  with 
as  few  strokes  as  possible.  If  the  butter  is  hot,  and  it  ought 
to  be,  that  the  omelet  may  not  stand  uncooked,  put  the  mix- 
ture into  the  pan.  Do  not  stir  it,  but  when  it  begins  to 
stifien — "to  set,"  in  culinary  phrase,  slip  a  broad-bladed, 
round-pointed  dinner-knife  around  the  sides,  and  cautiously 
under  the  omelet,  that  the  butter  may  reach  every  part.  As 
soon  as  the  centre  is  fairly  "  set,"  turn  out  into  a  hot  dish 


42 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Lay  the  latter  bottom  upward  over  the  frying-pan,  which  must 
be  turned  up-side-down  dexterously.  This  brings  the  browned 
side  of  the  omelet  uppermost.  This  omelet  is  delicious  and 
easily  made. 

Oyster  Pie.  { 

Make  a  rich  puff-paste ;  roll  out  twice  as  thick  as  for  a  fruit 
pie  for  the  top  crust — about  the  ordinary  thickness  for  the 
lower.  X-ine  a  pudding-dish  with  the  thinner,  and  fill  with 
crusts  of  dry  bread  or  light  crackers.  Some  use  a  folded 
towel  to  fill  the  interior  of  the  pie,  but  the  above  expedient  is 
preferable.  Butter  the  edges  of  the  dish,  that  you  may  be 
able  to  lift  the  upper  crust  without  breaking.  Cover  the  . mock- 
pie  with  the  thick  crust,  ornamented  heavily  at  the  edge,  that 
it  may  lie  the  more  quietly,  and  bake.  Cook  the  oysters  as 
for  a  stew,  only  beating  into  them  at  the  last  two  eggs,  and 
thickening  with  a  spoonful  of  fine  cracker  crumbs  or  rice-flour. 
They  should  stew  but  five  minutes,  and  time  them  so  that  the 
paste  will  be  baked  just  in  season  to  receive  them.  Lift  the 
top  crust,  pour  in  the  smoking  hot  oysters,  and  send  up  hot. 

I  know  that  many  consider  it  unnecessary  to  prepare  the 
oysters  and  crust  separately ;  but  my  experience  and  observa- 
tion go  to  prove  that,  if  this  precaution  be  omitted,  the  oysters 
are  apt  to  be  wofully  overdone.  The  reader  can  try  both 
methods  and  take  her  choice. 

Pickled  Oysters.  | 

ICO  large  oysters. 

I  pint  white  wine  vinegar. 

1  doz.  blades  of  mace. 

2  doz.  whole  cloves. 

2  doz,  whole  black  peppers. 

I  large  red  pepper  broken  into  bits. 

Put  oysters,  liquor  and  all,  into  a  porcelain  or  bell-metal 
kettle.    Salt  to  taste.    Heat  slowly  until  the  oysters  are  very 


SHKLL-FISH. 


43 


hot,  but  not  to  boiling.  Take  them  out  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  To  the  liquor  which  remains 
in  the  kettle  add  the  vinegar  and  spices.  Boil  up  fairly,  and 
when  the  oysters  are  almost  cold,  pour  over  them  scalding 
hot.  Cover  the  jar  in  which  they  are,  and  put  away  in  a  cool 
place.  Next  day  put  the  pickled  oysters  into  glass  cans  with 
tight  tops.  Keep  in  the  dark,  and  where  they  are  not  liable 
to  become  heated. 

I  have  kept  oysters  thus  prepared  for  three  weeks  in  the 
winter.  If  you  open  a  can,  use  the  contents  up  as  soon  as 
practicable.    The  air,  like  the  light,  will  turn  them  dark. 

It  is  little  trouble  for  every  housekeeper  to  put  up  the 
pickled  oysters  needed  in  her  family ;  and  besides  the  satis- 
faction she  will  feel  in  the  consciousness  that  the  materials 
used  are  harmless,  and  the  oysters  sound,  she  will  save  at  least 
one  third  of  the  price  of  those  she  would  buy  ready  pickled. 
The  colorless  vinegar  used  by  "professionals"  for  such  pur- 
poses is  usually  sulphuric  or  pyroligneous  acid.  If  you  doubt 
this,  pour  a  little  of  the  liquor  from  the  pickled  oysters  put  up 
by  your  obliging  oyster  dealer  into  a  bell-metal  kettle.  I 
tried  it  once,  and  the  result  was  a  liquid  that  matched  the 
clear  green  of  Niagara  in  hue.  I  cannot  compare  it  justly 
with  anything  else. 

Roast  Oysters. 

There  is  no  pleasanter  froHc  for  an  autumn  evening,  in  the 
regions  where  oysters  are  plentiful,  than  an  impromptu  "roast" 
in  the  kitchen.  There  the  oysters  are  hastily  thrown  into  the 
fire  by  the  peck.  You  may  consider  that  your  fastidious  taste 
is  marvellously  respected  if  they  are  washed  first.  A  bushel 
basket  is  set  to  receive  the  empty  shells,  and  the  click  of  the 
oyster  knives  forms  a  constant  accompaniment  to  the  music 
of  laughing  voices.  Nor  are  roast  oysters  amiss  upon  your 
own  quiet  supper-table,  when  the  "good  man"  comes  in  on  a 
wet  night,  tired  and  hungry,  and  wants  "  something  hearten- 


44 


COMMON  SENSE. 


ing."  Wash  and  wipe  the  shell-oysters,  and  lay  them  in  the 
oven,  if  it  is  quick ;  upon  the  top  of  the  stove,  if  it  is  not. 
When  they  open,  they  are  done.  Pile  in  a  large  dish  and  send 
to  table.  Remove  the  upper  shell  by  a  dexterous  wrench  of 
the  knife,  season  the  oyster  on  the  lower,  with  pepper-sauce 
and  butter,  or  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar  in  lieu  of  the  sauce, 
and  you  have  the  very  aroma  of  this  pearl  of  bivalves,  pure 
and  undefiled. 

Or,  you  may  open  while  raw,  leaving  the  oysters  upon  the 
lower  shells;  lay  in  a  large  baking-pan,  and  roast  in  their  own 
liquor,  adding  pepper,  salt,  and  butter  before  serving. 

Raw  Oysters. 

It  has  become  quite  fashionable  to  serve  these  as  one  of  the 
preliminaries  to  a  dinner-party;  sometimes  in  small  plates, 
sometimes  on  the  half-shell.  They  are  seasoned  by  each  guest 
according  to  his  own  taste. 

Steamed  Oysters. 

If  you  have  no  steamer,  improvise  one  by  the  help  of  a 
cullender  and  a  pot-lid  fitting  closely  into  it,  at  a  little  distance 
from  the  top.  Wash  some  shell  oysters  and  lay  them  in  such 
a  position  in  the  bottom  of  the  cullender  that  the  liquor  will 
not  escape  from  them  when  the  shell  opens,  that  is,  with  the 
upper  shell  down.  Cover  with  a  cloth  thrown  over  the  top  of 
the  cullender,  and  press  the  lid  hard  down  upon  this  to  exclude 
the  air.  Set  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water  so  deep  that  the 
cullender,  v^hich  should  fit  into  the  mouth,  does  not  touch  the 
water.  Boil  hard  for  twenty  minutes,  then  make  a  hasty 
examination  of  the  oysters.  If  they  are  open,  you  are  safe  in 
removing  the  cover.  Serve  on  the  half-shell,  or  upon  a  hot 
chafing-dish.  Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them  and  a  few  bits  of 
butter ;  but  be  quick  in  whatever  you  do,  for  the  glory  of  the 
steamed  oyster  is  to  be  eaten  hot. 


SHELL-FISH. 


45 


Oyster  Pates. 

1  qt.  oysters. 

2  tablespoon fu Is  of  butter. 
Pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Set  the  oystei-s,  with  enough  liquor  to  cover  then.,  in  a 
saucepan  upon  the  range  or  stove ;  let  them  come  to  a  boil ; 
skim  well,  and  stir  in  the  butter  and  seasoning.  Two  or  three 
spoonfuls  of  cream  will  improve  them.  Have  ready  small 
tins  lined  with  puff  paste.  Put  three  or  four  oysters  in  each, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  pate ,  cover  with  paste  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes.  For  open  pdtes^  cut  the  paste 
into  round  cakes :  those  intended  for  the  bottom  crust  less 
than  half  an  inch  thick ;  for  the  upper,  a  little  thicker.  With 
a  smaller  cutter,  remove  a  round  of  paste  from  the  middle  of 
the  latter,  leaving  a  neat  ring.  Lay  this  carefully  upon  the 
bottom  crust ;  place  a  second  ring  upon  this,  that  the  cavity 
may  be  deep  enough  to  hold  the  oysters  ;  lay  the  pieces  you 
have  extracted  also  in  the  pan  with  the  rest,  and  bake  to  a  fine 
brown  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done,  wash  over  with  beaten 
egg,  around  top  and  all,  and  set  in  the  oven  three  minutes  to 
glaze.  Fill  the  cavity  with  a  mixture  prepared  as  below,  fit 
on  the  top  lightly,  and  serve. 

Mixture. 

To  half  the  Hquor  from  a  quart  of  oysters  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  milk,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Put  in  all  the 
oysters,  leaving  out  the  uncooked  liquor ;  heat  to  boiling,  and 
stir  in — 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch,  wet  with  a  little  milk. 
A  little  salt. 

Boil  four  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it  thickens  and  fill 
the  cavity  in  the  paste  shells,    'i  hese /<2/^i-  are  very  nice, 


46 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Scallops. 

The  heart  is  the  only  part  used.  If  you  buy  them  in  the 
shell,  boil  and  take  out  the  hearts.  Those  sold  in  our  markets 
are  generally  ready  for  frying  or  stewing. 

Dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker-crumbs  and  fry  in 
hot  lard. 

Clam  Fritters.  |. 
12  clams,  minced  fine. 
I  pint  of  milk. 
3  eggs.  • 

Add  the  liquor  from  the  clams  to  the  milk ;  beat  up  the 
eggs  and  put  to  this,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  flour  enough  for 
thin  batter;  lastly,  the  chopped  clams.  Fry  in  hot  lard,  trying 
a  little  first  to  see  that  fat  and  batter  are  right.  A  tablespoon- 
ful  will  make  a  fritter  of  moderate  size.  Or,  you  can  dip  the 
whole  clams  in  batter  and  cook  in  like  manner.  Fry  quickly, 
or  they  are  apt  to  be  too  greasy. 

Clam  Chowder. 

Fry  five  or  six  slices  of  fat  pork  crisp,  and  chop  to  pieces. 
Sprinkle  some  of  these  in  the  bottom  of  a  pot ;  lay  upon  them 
a  stratum  of  clams ;  sprinkle  with  cayenne  or  black  pepper 
and  salt,  and  scatter  bits  of  butter  profusely  over  all ;  next, 
have  a  layer  of  chopped  onions,  then  one  of  small  crackers, 
split  and  moistened  with  warm  milk.  On  these  pour  a  Httle 
of  the  fat  left  in  the  pan  after  the  pork  is  fried,  and  then  comes 
a  new  round  of  pork,  clams,  onion,  etc.  Proceed  in  this  order 
until  the  pot  is  nearly  full,  when  cover  with  water  and  stew 
slowly— the  pot  closely  covered— for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Drain  off  all  the  liquor  that  will  flow  freely,  and,  when  you 
have  turned  the  chowder  into  the  tureen,  return  the  gravy  to 
the  pot.  Thicken  with  flour,  or,  better  still,  pounded  crackers ; 
add  a  glass  of  wine,  some  catsup,  and  spiced  sauce  :  boil  up, 
and  pour  over  the  contents  of  the  tureen.  Send  around 
walnut  or  butternut  pickles  with  it. 


POULTRY. 


47 


POULTRY 


Poultry  should  never  be  eaten  in  less  than  six  or  eight 
hours  after  .t  ,s  kdled;  but  it  shouM  be  picked  and  drawn  a 
soon  as  possible.    There  is  no  direr  disgrace  to  our  Northern 

and  f     /  I  '""^         '-"PO^^'ble  poultry-dealers 

n?ii  r  fla    ™  rr''"^'  -■^''-'^  -drawn 

untd  the  flavor  of  the  craw  and  intestines  had  impregnated 
the  whole  body.    Those  who  are  conversant  with  the  hfbit  of 

fo  a  day  and  n^ht  before  killing  and  dressing  for  their  own 
and  n^r"^  T^""  "'"^  "'^S"^'  "'^  --barged  crZ 
you  waSto  r  -       =>^^-bIes.  I 

you  want  to  know  what  you  really  pay  for  poultry  bottght  in 
these  circumstances,  weigh  the  offal  extracted  from  the  fow  bv 
your  cook  and  deduct  from  the  market  weight.    <  BuVdon'I 

0  ce  e::iT'V°r" '  " ^° 

once  exclaimed  a  Southern  ladv  to  "  Jr. 

tl^y  are  offered  for  sale  ready  ^cred"^^  ^  wZw- 

g.blets-also  cleaned-tucked  under  their  wings  " 

aJXrit'.i:r.i::t'hr°"r^"""^^  °^  -^-"^ 

and  fhi.  T  A      °  "^e  custom  is  unclean  and  unjust 

holi  "'^  hope  of  arousing  my  fel  ow 

hou  ekeepers  to  remonstrate  against  established  usage  Onl 

e  tL7T"''T'"'"'  '°  ^^'"'^'^  whatTcannt 
buy  live  fLt  I  grievance  is  to 

::t::s?oT''°"  "^^'—^'-o  «tin/eri:::L'" 

One  word  as  to  the  manner  of  roasting  meats  and  fowls.  In 


48 


COMMON  SENSE. 


this  day  of  ranges  and  cooking-stoves,  I  think  I  am  speaking 
within  bounds  when  I  assume  that  not  one  housekeeper  in 
fifty  uses  a  spit,  or  even  a  tin  kitchen,  for  such  purposes.  It 
is  in  vain  that  the  writers  of  receipt-books  inform  us  with 
refreshing  naivete  that  all  our  meats  are  baked,  not  roasted, 
and  expatiate  upon  the  superior  flavor  of  those  prepared  upon 
the  English  spits  and  in  ol^d-fashioned  kitchens,  where  enor- 
mous wood-fires  blazed  from  morning  until  night.  I  shall  not 
soon  forget  my  perplexity  when,  an  inexperienced  housekeeper 
and  a  firm  believer  in  all  "  that  was  writ "  by  older  and  wiser 
people,  I  stood  before  my  neat  Mott's  "  Defiance,"  a  fine 
sirloin  of  beef  ready  to  be  cooked  on  the  table  behind  me,  and 
read  from  my  Instruction-book  that  my  fire  should  extend  at 
least  eight  inches  beyond  the  roaster  on  either  side  !  "  I  am 
not  denying  the  virtues  of  spits  and  tin  kitchens — only  regret- 
ting that  they  are  not  within  the  reach  of  every  one.  In  view 
of  this  fact,  let  me  remark,  for  the  benefit  of  the  unfortunate 
many,  that,  in  the  opinion  of  excellent  judges,  the  practice  of 
roasting  meat  in  close  ovens  has  advantages.  Of  these  I  need 
mention  but  two,  to  wit,  the  preservation  of  the  flavor  of  the 
article  roasted,  and  the  prevention  of  its  escape  to  the  upper 
regions  of  the  dwelling. 

The  directions  hereafter  given  touching  roasting  will  apply 
either  to  turnspit,  "  kitchens,"  or  ovens. 

Roast  Turkey. 
After  drawing  the  turkey,  rinse  out  with  several  waters,  and 
in  next  to  the  last  mix  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  The  inside  of 
of  a  fowl,  especially  if  purchased  in  the  market,  is  sometimes 
very  sour,  and  imparts  an  unpleasant  taste  to  the  stuffing,  if  not 
to  the  inner  part  of  the  legs  and  side  bones.  The  soda  will 
act  as  a  corrective,  and  is  moreover  very  cleansing.  Fill  the 
body  with  this  water,  shake  well,  empty  it  out,  and  rinse 
with  fair  water.  Then  prepare  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs, 
mixed  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  thyme  or  sweet  marjoram,  and 


POULTRY.  49 

wet  with  hot  water  or  milk.  You  may,  if  you  Hke,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  A  little  chopped  sausage  is  esteemed 
an  improvement  when  well  incorporated  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients. Or,  mince  a  dozen  oysters  and  stir  into  the  dressing  • 
and,  If  you  are  partial  to  the  taste,  wet  the  bread-crumbs  with 
the  oyster-hquor.  The  effect  upon  the  turkey-meat,  particularly 
that  of  the  breast,  is  very  pleasant. 

Stuff  the  craw  with  this,  and  tie  a  string  tightly  about  the 
neck,  to  prevent  the  escape  ol  the  stuffing.    Then  fill  the  body 
of  the  turkey,  and  sew  it  up  with  strong  thread.    This  and  the 
neck-string  are  to  be  removed  when  the  fowl  is  dished.  In 
roasting,  if  your  fire  is  brisk,  allow  about  ten  minutes  to  a 
pound ;  but  it  will  depend  very  much  upon  the  turkey's  age 
whether  this  rule  holds  good.    Dredge  it  with  flour  before 
roasting,  and  baste  often;  at  f^rst  with  butter  and  water,  after- 
ward with  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan.    If  you  roast'  in  an 
oven,  and  lay  the  turkey  in  the  pan,  put  in  with  it  a  teacup  of  hot 
water.    Many  roast  always  upon  a  grating  placed  on  the  top 
of  the  pan.    In  that  case  the  boiling  water  steams  the  under- 
part  of  the  fowl,  and  prevents  the  skin  from  drying  too  fast  or 
cracking.    Roast  to  a  fine  brown,  and  if  it  threaten  to  daiken 
too  rapidly,  lay  a  sheet  of  white  paper  over  it  until  the  lower 
part  is  also  done. 

Stew  the  chopped  giblets  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them 
and  when  the  turkey  is  lifted  from  the  pan,  add  these,  with 
the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  to  the  drippings;  thicken 
with  a  spoonful  of  browned  flour,  wet  with  cold  water  to  pre- 
vent lumping,  boil  up  once,  and  pour  into  the  gravy-boat  If 
the  turkey  is  very  fat,  skim  the  drippings  well  before  putting 
in  the  giblets.  ^ 
Serve  with  cranberry  sauce.  Some  lay  fried  oysters  in  the 
dish  around  the  turkey. 

Boiled  Turkey. 

Chop  about  two  dozen  oysters,  and  mix  with  them  a  dress- 
c 


50 


COMMON  SENSE. 


ing  compounded  as  for  roast  turkey,  only  with  more  butter, 
and  wet  with  the  oyster-liquor  and  a  like  quantity  of  milk. 
Stuff  the  turkey  as  for  roasting,  craw  and  body,  and  baste 
about  it  a  thin  cloth,  fitted  closely  to  every  part.  The  inside 
of  the  cloth  should  be  dredged  with  flour  to  prevent  the  fowl 
from  slicking  to  it.  Allow  fifteen  minutes  to  a  pound,  and 
boil  slowly. 

Serve  with  oyster-sauce,  made  by  adding  to  a  cupful  of  the 
liquor  in  which  the  turkey  was  boiled,  the  same  quantity  of 
milk,  and  eight  oysters  chopped  fine.  Season  with  minced 
parsley,  stir  in  a  spoonful  of  rice  or  wheat  flour,  wet  with  cold 
milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  up  once  and  pour  into 
an  oyster-tureen.    Send  around  celery  with  it. 

TuKKEY  Scallop.  J 

Cut  tlie  meat  from  the  bones  of  a  cold  boiled  or  roasted 
turkey  left  from  yesterday's  dinner.  Remove  the  bits  of  skin 
and  gristle,  and  chop  up  ihe  rest  very  fine.  Put  in  the  bottom 
of  a  buttered  dish  a  layer  of  cracker  or  bread-crumbs  ;  moisten 
slightly  with  milk,  that  they  may  not  absorb  all  the  gravy  to  be 
poured  in  afterward ;  then  spread  a  layer  of  the  minced  turkey, 
with  bits  of  the  stuffing,  pepper,  salt,  and  small  pieces  of  butter. 
Another  layer  of  cracker,  wet  with  milk,  and  so  on  until  the 
dish  is  nearly  full.  Before  putting  on  the  topmost  layer,  pour 
in  the  gravy  left  from  the  turkey,  diluted — should  there  not  be 
enough — with  hot  water,  and  seasoned  with  Worcestershire 
sauce,  catsup,  and  butter.  Have  ready  a  crust  of  cracker- 
crumbs  soaked  in  warm  milk,  seasoned  with  salt,  and  beaten 
up  light  with  two  eggs.  It  should  be  just  thick  enough  to 
spread  smoothly  over  the  top  of  the  scallop.  Stick  bits  of 
butter  plentifully  upon  it,  and  bake.  Turn  a  deep  plate  over 
the  dish  until  the  contents  begin  to  bubble  at  the  sides,  show- 
ing that  the  whole  is  thoroughly  cooked ;  then  remove  the 
cover,  and  brown.  A  large  pudding-dish  full  of  the  mixture 
will  be  cooked  in  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


POULTEY.  51 

This,  h'ke  many  other  economical  dishes,  will  prove  so 
savory  as  to  claim  a  frequent  appearance  upon  any  table. 
Cold  chicken  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Ragout  of  Turkey. 

This  is  a  cheap,  yet  nice  dish.  Cut  the  cold  turkey  from 
the  bones  and  into  bits  an  inch  long  with  a  knife  and  fork 
tearing  as  little  as  possible.  Put  into  a  skillet  or  saucepan 
the  gravy  left  from  the  roast,  with  hot  water  to  dilute  it  should 
the  quantity  be  small.  Add  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  a  teaspoonful  of  pungent  sauce,  a  half-teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  a  large  pinch  of  nutmeg,  with  a  little  salt  Let  it 
boil,  and  put  in  the  meat.  Stew  very  slowly  for  ten  minutes— 
not  more-and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cranberry  or  currant 
jelly,  another  of  browned  flour  which  has  been  wet  with  cold 
water;  lastly,  a  glass  of  brown  sherry  or  Madeira.  Boil  up 
once,  and  serve  in  a  covered  dish  for  breakfast.  Leave  out 
the  stuffing  entirely;  it  is  no  improvement  to  the  flavor,  and 
disfigures  the  appearance  of  the  ragout. 

Roast  Chickens. 

Having  picked  and  drawn  them,  wash  out  well  in  two  or 
three  waters,  adding  a  httle  soda  to  the  last  but  one  should 
any  doubtful  odor  linger  about  the  cavity.  Prepare  a  stuffing, 
of  bread-crumbs,  butter,  pepper,  salt,  &c.  Fill  the  bodies  and 
crops  of  the  chickens,  which  should  be  voung  and  plump  • 
sew  them  up,  and  roast  an  hour  or  more,  in  proportion  to  their 
size  Bnste  two  or  three  times  with  butter  and  water,  after- 
ward with  their  own  gravy.  If  laid  flat  within  the  dripping- 
pan,  put  in  at  the  first  a  little  hot  water  to  prevent  burning 

Stew  the  Giblets  and  necks  in  enough  water  to  cover  them 
and,  when  you  have  removed  the  fowls  to  a  hot  dish,  pou^ 
this  into  the  drippings;  boil  uponce;  add  the  giblets,  chopped 


52 


COMMON  SENSE. 


fine ;  thicken  with  brown  flour ;  boil  again,  and  send  to  table 
in  a  gravy-boat. 

Serve  with  crab  apple  jelly  or  tomato  sauce. 

Boiled  Chickens. 

Clean,  wash,  and  stuff  as  for  roasting.  Baste  a  floured 
cloth  around  each,  and  put  into  a  pot  with  enough  boihiig 
water  to  cover  them  well.  The  hot  water  cooks  the  skin  at 
once,  and  prevents  the  escape  of  the  juices.  The  broth  will 
not  be  so  rich  as  if  the  fowls  are  put  on  in  cold  water ;  but 
this  is  a  proof  that  the  meat  will  be  more  nutritious  and 
better  flavored.  Stew  very  slowly,  for  the  first  half  hour  espe- 
cially. Boil  an  hour  or  more,  guiding  youself  by  size  and 
toughness. 

Serve  with  egg  or  bread  sauce.    (See  Sauces.) 

Fricasseed  Chicken.    (  White.)  % 

Clean,  wash,  and  cut  up  the  fowls,  which  need  not  be  so 
tender  as  for  roasting.  Lay  them  in  salt  and  water  for  half 
an  hour.  Put  them  in  a  pot  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
them,  and  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  cut  into  thin  strips.  Cover 
closely,  and  let  them  heat  very  slowly ;  then  stew  for  over  an 
hour,  if  the  fowls  are  tender.  I  have  used  chickens  for  this 
purpose  that  required  four  hours  stewing,  but  they  were  tendc^r 
and  good  when  done.  Only  put  them  on  in  season,  and  cook 
very  slowly.  If  they  boil  fast,  they  toughen  and  shrink  into 
uneatableness.  When  tender,  add  a  chopped  onion  or  two, 
parsley,  and  pepper.  Cover  closely  again,  and,  when  it  has 
been  heated  to  boiling,  stir  in  a  teacupful  of  milk,  to  which 
have  been  added  two  beaten  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour.  Boil  up  fairly ;  add  a  great  spoonful  of  butter.  Arrange 
the  chicken  neatly  in  a  deep  chafing-dish,  pour  the  gravy 
over  it,  and  serve. 

In  this,  as  in  all  cases  where  beaten  egg  is  added  to  hot 


POULTRY. 


53 


liquor,  it  is  best  to  dip  out  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  latter,  and 
drop  a  little  at  a  time  into  the  egg,  beating  all  the  while,  that" 
it  may  heat  evenly  and  gradually  before  it  is  put  into  the 
scalding  contents  of  the  saucepan  or  pot.  Eggs  managed  in 
this  way  will  not  curdle,  as  they  are  apt  to  do  if  thrown  sud- 
denly into  hot  liquid. 

Broiled  Chicken. 

It  is  possible  to  render  a  tough  fowl  eatable  by  boiling  or 
stewing  it  with  care.  Never  broil  such  !  And  even  when 
assured  that  your  "broiler"  is  young,  it  is  wise  to  make  this 
doubly  sure  by  laying  it  upon  sticks  extending  from  side  to 
side  of  a  dripping-pan  full  of  boiling  water.  Set  this  in  the 
oven,  invert  a  tin  pan  over  the  chicken,  and  let  it  steam  for 
half  an  hour.  This  process  relaxes  the  muscles,  and  renders 
supple  the  joints,  besides  preserving  the  juices  that  would  be 
lost  in  parboiling.  The  chicken  should  be  split  down  the 
back,  and  wiped  perfectly  dry  before  it  is  steamed.  Transfer 
from  the  vapor-bath  to  a  buttered  gridiron,  inside  downward. 
Cover  with  a  tin  pan  or  common  plate,  and  broil  until  tender 
and  brown,  turning  several  times ;  from  half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  will  be  sufficient.  Put  in  a  hot  chafing-dish,  and 
butter  very  well.    Send  to  table  smoking  hot. 

Fried  Chicken. 

Clean,  wash,  and  cut  to  pieces  a  couple  of  Spring  chickens. 
Have  ready  in  a  frying-pan  enough  boiling  lard  or  dripping  to 
cover  them  well.  Dip  each  piece  in  beaten  egg  when  you 
have  salted  it,  then  in  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  until  brown. 
If  the  chicken  is  large,  steam  it  before  frying,  as  directed  in 
the  foregoing  receipt.  When  you  have  taken  out  the  meat, 
throw  into  the  hot  fat  a  dozen  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  let  them 
remain  a  minute— just  long  enough  to  crisp,  but  not  to  dry 
them.    Garnish  the  chicken  by  strewing  these  over  it. 


54 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Chicken  Pot-Pif. 
Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  pot  with  a  good  rich  paste, 
reserving  enough  for  a  top  crust  and  for  the  square  bits  to  be 
scattered  through  the  pie.  Butter  the  pot  very  lavishly,  or 
your]  pastry  will  stick  to  it  and  burn.  Cut  up  a  fine  large 
fowl,  and  half  a  pound  of  ham  or  salt  pork.  Put  in  a  layer 
of  the  latter,  pepper  it,  and  cover  with  pieces  of  the  chicken, 
and  this  with  the  paste  dumplings  or  squares.  If  you  use 
potatoes,  parboil  them  before  putting  them  into  the  pie,  as  the 
first  water  in  which  they  are  boiled  is  rank  and  unwholesome. 
The  potatoes  should  be  sliced  and  laid  next  the  pastry  squares  ; 
then  another  layer  of  pork,  and  so  on  until  your  chicken  is 
used  up.  Cover  with  pastry  rolled  out  quite  thick,  and  slit 
this  in  ihe  middle.  Heat  very  slowly,  and  boil  two  hours. 
Turn  into  a  large  dish,  the  lower  crust  on  top,  and  the  gravy 
about  it. 

This  is  the  old-fashioned  pot-pie,  dear  to  the  memory  of 
men  who  were  school-boys  thirty  and  forty  years  ago.  If  you 
are  not  experienced  in  such  manufactures,  you  had  better  omit 
the  lower  crust ;  and  having  browned  the  upper,  by  putting  a 
hot  pot-lid  or  stove-cover  on  top  of  the  pot  for  some  minutes, 
remove  dexterously  without  breaking.  Pour  out  the  chicken 
into  a  dish,  and  set  the  crust  above  it. 

Veal,  beef-steak,  lamb  (not  mutton),  hares,  &c.,  may  be 
substituted  for  the  chicken.    The  pork  will  salt  it  sufficiently. 

Baked  Chicken  Pie  | 
Is  made  as  above,  but  baked  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and, 
in  place  of  the  potatoes,  three  hard  boiled  eggs  are  chopped 
up  and  strewed  among  the  pieces  of  chicken.  If  the  chickens 
are  tough,  or  even  doubtful,  parboil  them  before  making  the 
pie,  adding  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  instead  of 
cold  water  for  gravy.  If  they  are  lean,  put  in  a  few  bits  of 
butter.  Ornament  with  leaves  cut  out  with  a  cake-cutter,  and 
a  star  in  the  centre.    Bake  an  hour— more,  if  the  pie  is  large. 


i. 


POULTKY. 


55 


Chicken  and  Ham.  I 

Draw,  wash  and  stuff  a  pair  of  young  fowls.  Cut  enough 
large,  thick  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham  to  envelop  these  entirely, 
wrapping  them  up  carefully,  and  winding  a  string  about  all,  to 
prevent  the  ham  from  falling  off.  Put  into  your  dripping-pan, 
with  a  little  water  to  prevent  scorching ;  dashing  it  over  the 
meat  lest  it  should  dry  and  shrink.  Invert  a  tin  pan  over  all, 
and  bake  slowly  for  one  hour  and  a  quarter,  if  the  fowls  are 
small  and  tender— longer,  if  tough.  Lift  the  cover  from  time 
time  to  baste  with  the  drippings— the  more  frequently  as  time 
wears  on.  Test  the  tenderness  of  the  fowls,  by  sticking  a  fork 
through  the  ham  into  the  breast.  When  done,  undo  the  strings, 
lay  the  fowls  in  a  hot  dish,  and  the  slices  of  ham  about  them. 
Stir  into  the  dripping  a  little  chopped  parsley,  a  tablespoonful 
of  browned  flour  wet  in  cold  water ;  pepper,  and  let  boil  up 
once.  Pour  some  of  it  over  the  chickens — not  enough  to  float 
the  ham  in  the  dish  ;  serve  the  rest  in  a  gravy-boat. 

Roast  Ducks. 

Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  the  ducks  very  carefully.  To  the 
usual  dressing  add  a  little  sage  (powdered  or  green),  and  a 
minced  shallot.  Stuff,  and  sew  up  as  usual,  reserving  the  gib- 
lets for  the  gravy.  If  they  are  tender,  they  will  not  require 
more  than  an  hour  to  roast.  Baste  well.  Skim  the  gravy 
before  putting  in  the  giblets  and  thickening.  The  giblets 
should  be  stewed  in  a  very  little  water,  then  chopped  fine,  and 
added  to  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan,  with  a  chopped  shallot 
and  a  spoonful  of  browned  flour. 

Accompany  with  currant  or  grape  jelly. 

To  Use  up  Cold  Duck.  J 

I  may  say,  as  preface,  that  cold  duck  is  in  itself  an  excellent 
supper-dish,  or  side-dish,  at  a  family  dinner,  and  is  often  pre- 
ferred to  hot.    If  the  duck  has  been  cut  into  at  al],  divide 


56 


COMMON  SENSE. 


neatly  into  joints,  and  slice  the  breast,  laying  slices  of 
dressing  about  it.  Garnish  with  lettuce  or  parsley,  and  eat 
with  jelly. 

But  if  a  warm  dish  is  dep^-ed,  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones 
and  lay  it  in  a  saucepan,  wu.i  a  little  minced  cold  ham ;  pour 
on  just  enough  water  to  cover  it,  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Cover,  and  heat  gradually,  until  it  is  near  boiling. 
Then  add  the  gravy,  diluted  with  a  little  hot  water;  a  great 
spoonful  of  catsup,  one  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  one  of 
currant  or  cranberry  jelly,  with  a  glass  of  wine  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  browned  flour. 

Stewed  Duck. 

This  is  a  good  way  to  treat  an  old  and  tough  fowl. 

Clean  and  divide,  as  you  would  a  chicken  for  fricassee.  Put 
into  a  saucepan,  with  several  (minced)  slices  of  cold  ham  or 
salt  pork  which  is  not  too  fat,  and  stew  slowly  for  at  least  an 
hour— keeping  the  lid  on  all  the  while.  Then  stir  in  a 
large  chopped  onion,  a  half-spoonful  powdered  sage,  or  a 
whole  spoonful  of  the  green  leaves  cut  fine,  half  as  much 
parsley,  a  tablespoonful  catsup,  and  black  pepper.  Stew 
another  half-hour,  or  until  the  duck  is  tender,  and  add  a 
teaspoonful  brown  sugar,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  browned 
flour,  previously  wet  with  cold  water.  Boil  up  once,  and 
serve  in  a  deep  covered  dish,  with  green  peas  as  an  accom- 
paniment. 

Roast  Goose. 

Clean  and  wash  the  goose — not  forgetting  to  put  a  spoonful 
of  soda  in  next  to  the  last  water,-  rinse  out  well,  and  wipe  the 
inside  quite  dry.  Add  to  the  usual  stufling  of  bread-crumbs, 
pepper,  salt,  etc.,  a  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  a  large-sized 
onion  chopped  fine,  a  tablespoonful  chopped  sage,  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  and  some  minute  bits  of  fat  pork.  Stuff"  body  and 
craw,  ail  1  sew  up.    It  will  take  fully  two  hours  to  roast,  if  the 


POULTRY. 


57 


fire  is  strong.  Cover  the  breast  until  it  is  half  done  with  white 
paper,  or  a  paste  of  flour  and  water,  removing  this  when  you 
are  ready  to  brown. 

Make  a  gravy  as  for  roast  duck,  adding  a  glass  of  sherry  or 
Maderia,  or  (if  you  can  get  it)  old  Port. 

Send  to  table  with  cranberry  or  apple  sauce. 

Goose  Pie. 

An  old  goose  is  as  nearly  good  for  nothing  as  it  is  possible 
for  anything  which  was  once  valuable,  and  is  not  now  abso- 
lutely spoiled,  to  be.  The  best  use  to  put  it  to  is  to  make 
it  into  a  pie,  in  the  following  manner  :  Put  on  the  ancient 
early  in  the  morning,  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it, 
unsalted,  having  cut  it  to  pieces  at  every  joint.  Warm  it  up 
gradually,  and  let  it  stew — not  boil  hard — for  four  or  five 
hours.  Should  the  water  need  replenishing,  let  it  be  done 
from  the  boiling  kettle.  Parboil  a  beef's  tongue  (smoked), 
cut  into  slices  nearly  half  an  inch  thick ;  also  slice  six  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Line  a  deep  pudding  dish  with  a  good  paste ; 
lay  in  the  pieces  of  goose,  the  giblets  chopped,  the  sliced 
tongue  and  egg,  in  consecutive  layers ;  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  bits  of  butter,  and  proceed  in  this  order  until  the 
dish  is  full.  If  the  goose  is  large,  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones 
after  stewing,  and  leave  out  the  latter  entirely.  Intersperse 
with  strips  of  paste,  and  fill  up  with  the  gravy  in  which  the 
goose  was  stewed,  thickened  with  flour.  Cover  with  a  thick 
paste,  and  when  it  is  done,  brush  over  the  top  with  beaten 
white  of  egg. 

In  cold  weather  this  pie  will  keep  a  week,  and  is  very  good. 

Roast  Pigeons. 

Clean,  wash,  and  stuff"  as  you  would  chickens.  Lay  them 
in  rows,  if  roasted  in  the  oven,  with  a  little  water  in  the  pan 
to  prevent  scorching.    Unless  they  are  very  fat,  baste  with 


58 


COMMON  SENSE. 


butter  until  they  are  half  done,  afterwards  with  their  own  gravy. 
Thicken  the  gravy  that  drips  from  them,  and  boil  up  once  ; 
then  pour  into  a  gravy-boat.  The  pigeons  should  lie  close 
together  on  the  dish. 

Stewed  Pigeons. 

Pick,  draw,  clean  and  stuff  as  above  directed.  Put  the 
pigeons  in  a  deep  pot  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them, 
and  stew  gently  for  an  hour,  or  until,  testing  them  with  a  fork, 
you  find  them  tender.  Then  season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  few 
blades  of  mace,  a  little  sweet  marjoram,  and  a  good  piece  of 
butter.  Stew,  or  rather  simmer,  for  five  minutes  longer— then 
stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour.  Let  it  boil  up  once  ; 
remove  the  pigeons,  draw  out  the  strings  with  which 
they  were  sewed  up,  and  serve,  pouring  the  hot  gravy  over 
them.  A  little  salt  pork  or  ham,  cut  into  strips,  is  an  im- 
provement. This  should  be  put  in  when  the  pigeons  have 
stewed  half  an  hour. 

Broiled  Pigeons  or  Squabs. 

Youngs  pigeons  or  "  squabs  "  are  rightly  esteemed  a  great 
dehcacy.  They  are  cleaned,  washed,  and  dried  carefully  with 
a  clean  cloth ;  then  split  down  the  back,  and  broiled  like 
chickens.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  butter  liberally 
in  dishing  them.  They  are  in  great  request  in  a  convalescent's 
room,  being  peculiarly  savory  and  nourishing. 

They  may,  for  a  change,  be  roasted  whole,  according  to  the 
receipt  for  roast  pigeons. 

Pigeon  Pie. 
Is  best  made  of  wild  pigeons.  (See  Game.) 


BEEl^ . 


59 


MEATS. 


Roast  Beef. 

The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the  sirloin  and  rib  pieces. 
The  latter  are  oftenest  used  by  small  families.  Make  your 
butcher  remove  most  of  the  bone,  and  skewer  the  meat  into 
the  shape  of  a  round.  If  you  roast  in  an  oven,  it  is  a  good 
plan  to  dash  a  small  cup  of  boiling  water  over  the  meat  in  first 
putting  it  down,  letting  it  trickle  into  the  pan.  This,  for  a 
season,  checks  the  escape  of  the  juices,  and  allows  the  meat  to 
get  warmed  through  before  the  top  dries  by  said  escape.  If 
there  is  much  fat  upon  the  upper  surface,  cover  with  a  paste 
of  flour  and  water  until  it  is  nearly  done.  Baste  frequently, 
at  first  with  salt  and  water,  afterward  with  the  drippings. 
Allow  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  a  pound,  if  you  like  your 
meat  rare ;  more,  if  you  prefer  to  have  it  well  done.  Some, 
when  the  meat  is  almost  done,  dredge  with  flour  and  baste 
wit1i  butter — only  once. 

Remove  the  beef,  when  quite  ready,  to  a  heated  dish ;  skim 
the  drippings ;  add  a  teacupful  of  boiling  water,  boil  up  once, 
and  send  to  table  in  a  gravy-boat.  Many  reject  made  gravy 
altogether,  and  only  serve  the  red  liquor  that  runs  from  the 
meat  into  the  dish  as  it  is  cut.  This  is  the  practice  with  some 
— indeed  most  of  our  best  housekeepers.  If  you  have  made- 
gravy  in  a  sauce-boat,  give  your  guest  his  choice  between  that 
and  the  juice  in  the  dish. 

Serve  with  mustard,  or  scraped  horse-radish  and  vinegar. 

Roast  Beef,  with  Yorkshire  Pudding.  \ 

Set  a  piece  of  beef  to  roast  upon  a  grating,  or  several  sticks 
laid  across  a  dripping-pan.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  before 
it  is  done,  mix  the  pudding  and  pour  into  the  pan.  Continue 


GO 


COMMON  SENSE. 


to  roast  the  beef,  the  dripping  meanwhile  falHng  upon  the  bat- 
ter below.  When  both  are  done,  cut  the  pudding  into  squares, 
and  lay  around  the  meat  when  dished.  If  there  is  much  fat 
in  the  dripping-pan  before  the  pudding  is  ready  to  be  put  in, 
drain  it  off,  leaving  just  enough  to  prevent  the  batter  from 
sticking  to  the  bottom. 

Receipt  fot  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

2  cups  of  flour. 

I  teaspoonful  salt. 

Be  careful,  in  mixing,  not  to  get  the  batter  too  stiff. 

This  pudding,  which  the  cook  who  introduced  it  into  my 
family  persisted  in  calling  pudding,"  is  very  palatable 

and  popular,  and  not  so  rich  as  would  be  thought  from  the 
manner  of  baking.    It  should  be  a  yellow-brown,  when  done. 

Beef-Steak. 

It  is  not  customary  to  fry  beef-steaks  for  people  who  know 
what  really  good  cookery  is.  To  speak  more  plainly,  a  steak, 
killed  by  heat  and  swimming  in  grease,  is  a  culinary  solecism, 
both  vulgar  and  indigestible. 

Cut  the  steak  thick,  at  least  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in 
thickness,  and  if  you  cannot  get  tender  meat  for  this  purpose, 
.  it  is  best  to  substitute  some  other  dish  for  it.  But  since  tender 
meat  is  not  always  to  be  had,  if  the  piece  you  have  purchased 
is  doubtful,  lay  it  on  a  clean  cloth,  take  a  blunt  heavy  carving- 
knife,  if  you  have  not  a  steak  mallet,  and  hack  closely  from  one 
end  to  the  other;  then,  turn  and  repeat  the  process  upon  the 
other  side.  The  knife  should  be  so  dull  you  cannot  cut  with 
it,  and  the  strokes  not  the  sixtieth  part  of  an  inch  apart.  Wipe, 
but  not  wash,  and  lay  on  a  battered  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire, 
turning  very  often  as  it  begins  to  drip.    Do  not  season  until 


BEEF. 


61 


it  is  done,  which  will  be  in  about  twelve  minutes,  if  the  fire  is 
good  and  the  cook  attentive.  Rub  your  hot  chafing-dish  with 
a  split  raw  onion,  lay  in  the  steak,  salt  and  pepper  on  both 
sides,  and  put  a  liberal  lump  of  butter  upon  the  upper.  Then 
put  on  a  hot  cover,  and  let  it  stand  for  five  minutes  to  draw 
the  juices  to  the  surface  before  it  is  eaten.  If  you  have  neither 
chafing-dish  nor  cover,  lay  the  steak  between  two  hot  platters 
for  the  same  time,  sending  to  table  without  uncovering.  A 
gridiron  fitting  under  the  grate  is  better  than  any  other.  If  a 
gridiron  is  not  at  hand,  rub  a  little  butter  upon  the  bottom  of 
a  hot,  clean  frying-pan,  put  in  the  meat,  set  over  a  bright  fire, 
and  turn  frequently.  This  will  not  be  equal  to  steak  cooked 
upon  a  gridiron,  but  it  is  infinitely  preferable  to  the  same  fried. 

I  shall  never  forget  the  wondering  distrust  with  which  my 
first  cook,  a  sable  professional,"  watched  me  when  I  under- 
took to  show  her  how  to  prepare  a  steak  for  the  third  break- 
fast over  which  I  presided  as  mistress  of  ceremonies.  And 
when,  at  the  end  of  twelve  minutes,  I  removed  the  meat, 
"  rare  and  hot,"  to  the  heated  dish  in  readiness,  her  sniff  of 
lofty  contempt  was  eloquent  as  indescribable. 

"  Call  dat  cooked  !  Folks  'bout  here  would  'a  had  dat  steak 
on  by  day-break  ! " 

A  remark  that  has  been  recalled  to  my  mind  hundreds  of 
times  since  at  the  tables  of  so-called  capital  housewives. 

The  best — nay,  the  only  pieces  for  steak  are  those  known  as 
porter-house  and  sirloin.  The  former  is  the  more  highly 
esteemed  by  gourmands ;  but  a  really  tender  sirloin  is  more 
serviceable  where  there  are  several  persons  in  the  family,  the 
porter-house  having  a  narrow  strip  of  extremely  nice  meat  lying 
next  the  bone,  while  the  rest  is  often  inferior  to  any  part  of  the 
sirloin. 

Beef-steak  and  Onions. 
Prepare  the  steak  as  above  directed.    While  it  is  boiling  put 
three  or  four  chopped  onions  in  a  frymg-pan  with  a  little  beef- 
dripping  or  butter.    Stir  and  shake  them  briskly  until  they  are 


62 


COMMON  SENSE. 


done,  and  begin  to  brown.  Dish  your  steak  and  lay  the 
onions  thickly  on  top.  Cover  and  let  all  stand  five  or  six 
minutes,  that  the  hot  onions  may  impart  the  required  flavor  to 
the  hot  meat.  In  helping  your  guests,  inquire  if  they  will  take 
onions  with  the  slices  of  steak  put  upon  their  plates.  1  need 
hardly  remind  the  sensible  cook  how  necessary  it  is  to  with- 
draw the  gridiron  from  the  fire  for  an  instant,  should  the  fat 
drip  upon  the  coals  below,  and  smoke  or  blaze.  Yet  those  who 
have  eaten  steaks  flavored  with  creosote  may  thank  me  for  the 
suggestion. 

Beef  a-la-mode.  | 

Take  a  round  of  beef ;  remove  the  bone  from  the  middle, 
and  trim  away  the  tougher  bits  about  the  edges,  with  such  gris- 
tle, &c.,  as  you  can  reach.    Set  these  aside  fbr  soup-stock. 

Bind  the  beef  into  a  symmetrical  shape  by  passing  a  strip  of 
stout  muslin,  as  wide  as  the  round  is  high,  about  it,  and  stitch- 
ing the  ends  together  at  one  side.  Have  ready  at  least  a 
pound  of  fat  sah  pork,  cut  into  strips  as  thick  as  your  middle 
finger,  and  long  enough  to  reach  from  top  to  bottom  of  the 
trussed  round.  Put  a  half  pint  of  vinegar  over  the  fire  in  a  tin 
or  porcelain  saucepan ;  season  with  three  or  four  minced 
shallots  or  button  onions,  two  teaspoonfuls  made  mustard,  a 
teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  of  cloves,  half  as  much  allspice,  half- 
spoonful  black  pepper,  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  minced 
fine,  and  a  tablespoonful  brown  sugar.  Let  all  simmer  for  five 
minutes,  then  boil  up  once,  and  pour,  while  scalding  hot,  upon 
the  strips  of  pork,  which  should  be  laid  in  a  deep  dish.  Let 
all  stand  together  until  cold.  Remove  the  pork  to  a  plate,  and 
mix  with  the  liquor  left  in  the  dish  enough  bread  crumbs  to 
make  a  tolerably  stiff  force-meat.  If  the  vinegar  is  very  strong, 
dilute  with  a  little  water  before  moistening  the  crumbs.  With 
a  long,  thin-bladed  knife,  make  perpendicular  incisions  in  ilic 
meat,  not  more  than  half  an  inch  apart,  even  nearer  is  better; 
thrust  into  these  the  strips  of  fat  pork,  so  fiir  down  that  the 
upper  ends  are  just  level  with  the  surface,  and  work  into  the 


BEEF. 


63 


cavities  with  them  a  little  of  the  force-meat.  Proceed  thus 
until  the  meat  is  fairly  riddled  and  plugged  with  the  pork.  Fill 
the  hole  from  which  the  bone  was  taken  with  the  dressing  and 
bits  of  pork;  rub  the  upper  side  of  the  beef  well  with  the 
spiced  force-meat.  Put  into  a  baking-pan,  with  a  little  water 
to  prevent  burning ;  turn  a  large  pan  over  it  to  keep  in  the 
steam,  and  roast  slowly  for  five  or  six  hours,  allowing  half  an 
hour  to  each  pound  of  meat.  If  the  beef  be  tough,  you  had 
better  stew  the  round  by  putting  it  in  a  pot  with  half  enough 
water  to  cover  it.  Cover  tightly  and  stew  very  slowly  for  six 
hours  ;  then  set  in  the  oven  with  the  gravy  about  it,  and  brown 
half  an  liour,  basting  frequently. 

If  you  roast  the  round,  do  not  remove  the  cover,  except  to 
baste  (and  this  should  be  done  often),  until  fifteen  minutes 
before  you  draw  it  from  the  oven.  Set  away  with  the  muslin 
band  still  about  it,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  meat. 

When  cold,  lift  from  the  gravy,— which,  by  the  v/ay,  will  be 
excellent  seasoning  for  your  soup-stock, — cut  the  stitches  in 
the  muslin  girdle,  and  remove  carefully  and  send  the  meat  to 
table,  cold,  garnished  with  parsley  and  nasturtium  blossoms. 
Carve  horizontally,  in  slices  thin  as  a  shaving.  Do  not  offer 
the  outside  to  any  one  ;  but  the  second  cut  will  be  handsomely 
marbled  with  the  white  pork,  which  appearance  should  con- 
tinue all  the  way  down. 

I  cannot  too  highly  commend  this  as  a  side-dish  at  dinner, 
and  a  supper  and  breakfast  stand-by.  In  winter  it  will  keep  a 
week  and  more,  and  as  long  in  summer,  if  kept  in  the  refrige- 
rator— except  when  it  is  on  the  table. 

Breakfast  Stev^  of  Beef.  | 

Cut  up  two  pounds  of  beef— not  too  lean— into  pieces  an 
inch  long;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  just  enough  water 
to  cover  them,  and  stew  gently  for  two  hours.  Set  away  until 
next  morning,  when  season  with  pepper,  salt,  sweet  marjoram 
or  summer  savory,  chopped  onion,  and  parsley.    Stew  half  an 


64 


COMMON  SENSE. 


hour  longer,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  sauce  or  catsup,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  wet  with  cold  water;  finally,  if 
you  wish  to  have  it  very  good,  half  a  glass  of  wine.  Boil  up 
once,  and  pour  into  a  covered  deep  dish. 

This  is  an  economical  dish,  for  it  can  be  made  of  the  com- 
moner parts  of  the  beef,  and  exceedingly  nice  for  winter  break- 
fasts. Eaten  with  corn-bread  and  stewed  potatoes,  it  will  soon 
win  its  way  to  a  place  in  the  "stock  company"  of  every  judi- 
cious housewife. 

Another  Breakfast  Dish. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  roast  beef,  and  lay  them  in  a  tin 
saucepan  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Cover  them  with  a 
gravy  made  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  of 
walnut  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
a  spoonful  of  currant  jelly,  a  teaspoonful  made  mustard,  and 
some  warm  water.  Cover  tightly,  and  steam  for  half  an  hour, 
keeping  the  water  in  the  outer  vessel  on  a  hard  boil. 

If  the  meat  is  under-done,  this  is  particularly  nice. 

Beef  Hash. 

To  two  parts  cold  roast  or  boiled  corned  beef,  chopped  fine, 
put  one  of  mashed  potatoes,  a  Httle  pepper,  salt,  milk,  and 
melted  butter.  Turn  all  into  a  frying-pan,  and  stir  until  it  is 
heated  through  and  smoking  hot,  but  not  until  it  browns.  Put 
into  a  deep  dish,  and  if  stiff  enough,  shape  as  you  would 
mashed  potatoes,  into  a  hillock. 

Or,  you  can  cease  stirring  for  a  few  minutes,  and  let  a  brown 
crust  form  on  the  under  side;  then  turn  out  whole  into  a  flat 
dish,  the  browii  side  uppermost. 

Or,  mould  the  mixture  into  flat  cakes ;  dip  these  in  beaten 
eggs  and  fry  in  hot  drippings. 

The  remains  of  beef  a  la-mode  are  very  good  prepared  in  any 
of  these  ways.  A  little  catsup  and  mustard  are  an  improve- 
ment to  plain  cold  beef  thus  hashed. 


BEEF. 


65 


Beef-steak  Pie. 
Cut  the  steak  into  pieces  an  inch  long,  and  stew  with  the 
bone  (cracked)  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  the  meat  until  it 
is  half  done.  At  the  same  time  parboil  a  dozen  potatoes  in 
another  pot.  If  you  wish  a  bottom  crust — a  doubtful  question 
—line  a  pudding-dish  with  a  good  paste,  made  according  to 
the  receipt  given  below.  Put  in  a  layer  of  the  beef,  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  a  very  little  chopped  onion ;  then  one  of 
sliced  potatoes,  with  a  little  butter  scattered  upon  them,  and 
so  on,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Pour  over  all  the  gravy  in  which 
the  meat  is  stewed,  having  first  thrown  away  the  bone  and 
thickened  with  browned  flour.  Cover  with  a  crust  thicker  than 
the  lower,  leaving  a  slit  in  the  middle. 

Crust  for  Meat-Pies,  i 

£  quart  of  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  lard. 

2}^  cups  milk, 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda  wet  with  hot  water,  and  stirred  into 
the  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tartar  sifted  into  the  dry  flour. 
I  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Work  up  very  lightly  and  quickly,  and  do  not  get  too  stift 

Beef's  Heart. 

Wash  the  heart  well,  and  cut  into  squares  half  an  inch  long 
Stew  them  for  ten  minutes  in  enough  water  to  cover  them. 
Salt  the  water  slightly  to  draw  out  the  blood,  and  throw  it 
away  as  it  rises  in  scum  to  the  top.  Take  out  the  meat,  strain 
the  liquor,  and  return  the  chopped  heart  to  it,  with  a  sliced 
onion,  a  great  spoonful  of  catsup,  some  parsley,  a  head  of 
celery  chopped  fine,  and  cayenne  pepper,  with  a  large  lump  of 
butter.  Stew  until  the  meat  is  very  tender,  when  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  to  thicken,  Boil  up  once,  and 
serve. 

E 


66 


COMMON  SENSE. 


To  Corn  Beef. 

Rub  each  piece  of  beef  well  with  salt  mixed  with  one-tenth 
part  of  saltpetre,  until  the  salt  lies  dry  upon  the  surface.  Put 
aside  in  a  cold  place  for  twenty-four  hours,  and  repeat  the  pro- 
cess, rubbing  in  the  mixture  very  thoroughly.  Put  away 
again  until  the  next  day,  by  which  time  the  pickle  should  be 
ready. 

5  gallons  of  water. 

I  gallon  of  salt. 

4  ounces  saltpetre. 

1^2  lb.  brown  sugar. 
Boil  this  brine  ten  minutes ;  let  it  get  perfectly  cold ;  then 
pour  over  the  beef,  having  wiped  the  latter  entirely  dry. 

Examine  the  pickle  from  time  to  time  to  see  if  it  keeps  well ; 
if  not,  take  out  the  meat  without  delay,  wipe  it,  and  rub  in 
dry  salt,  covering  it  well  until  you  can  prepare  new  and  stronger 
brine. 

Boiled  Corned  Beef. 
If  your  piece  is  a  round,  skewer  it  well  into  shape,  and  tie  it 
up  with  stout  tape  or  twine  when  you  have  washed  it  in  three 
or  four  waters  and  removed  all  the  salt  from  the  outside.  Put 
into  a  pot,  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Allow,  in  boiling, 
about  twenty  minutes  to  a  pound.  Turn  the  meat  three  times 
while  cooking. 

When  done,  drain  very  dry,  and  serve  with  drawn  butter  in 
a  sauce-boat.  Send  around  mashed  turnips  with  the  meat. 
They  ^bould  be  boiled  in  a  separate  pot,  however,  or  they  will 
impart  a  disagreeable  taste  to  the  beef. 

The  brisket  is  a  good  piece  for  a  family  dinner. 

Beef  Tongue. 

Soak  over  night  in  cold  water  when  you  have  washed  it  well. 
Next  morning  put  into  a  pot  with  plenty  of  cold  water,  and 
boil  slowly  until  it  is  tender  throughout.  This  you  can  deter- 
mine by  testing  it  with  a  fork. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 


67 


When  it  is  cold,  pare  off  the  thick  skin,  cut  in  round  slices, 
and  dish  for  tea,  garnishing  with  fresh  parsley. 

Tongue  sandwiches  are  generally  held  in  higher  esteem  than 
those  made  of  ham. 

Dried  Beef. 

The  most  common  way  of  serving  dried  or  smoked  beef  is 
to  shave  it  into  thin  slices  or  chips,  raw  ;  but  a  more  savory 
relish  may  be  made  of  it  with  little  trouble. 

Put  the  Slices  of  uncooked  beef  into  a  frying-pan  with  just 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them  ;  set  them  over  the  fire 
for  ten  minutes,  drain  off  all  the  water,  and  with  a  knife  anci 
fork  cut  the  meat  into  small  bits.  Return  to  the  pan,  which 
should  be  hot,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  little 
pepper.  Have  ready  some  well-beaten  eggs,  allowing  four  to 
a  half-pound  of  beef;  stir  them  into  the  pan  with  the  minced 
meat,  and  toss  and  stir  the  mixture  for  about  two  minutes. 
Send  to  table  in  a  covered  dish. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

Roast  Mutton. 

The  parts  which  are  usually  roasted  are  : — 

The  shoulder, 

The  saddle,  or  chine,  and 

The  loin  and  haunch  (a  leg  and  part  of  the  loin). 

The  leg  is  best  boiled,  unless  the  mutton  is  young  and  very 
tender.  Wash  the  meat  well,  and  dry  with  a  clean  cloth.  Let 
your  fire  be  clear  and  strong ;  put  the  meat  on  with  a  little 
water  in  the  dripping-pan.  If  you  think  well  of  the  plan  (and 
I  do),  let  this  be  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  dashed  over  the 
meat  when  it  is  first  put  down  to  roast,  and  let  it  trickle  into 
the  pan.  I  have  elsewhere  explained  the  advantages  of  the 
method.    Allow,  in  roasting,  about  twelve  minutes  per  pound, 


68 


COMMON  SENSE. 


if  the  fire  is  good.  Baste  often — at  first  with  salt  and  water, 
afterward  with  the  gravy.  If  it  is  in  danger  of  browning  too 
fast,  cover  with  a  large  sheet  of  white  paper.  Roast  lamb  in 
the  same  manner,  but  not  so  long.  Skim  the  gravy  well,  and 
thicken  very  slightly  with  browned  flour.  Serve  with  currant 
jelly. 

Boiled  Mutton. 

Wash  a  leg  of  mutton  clean,  and  wipe  dry.  Do  not  leave 
the  knuckle  and  shank  so  long  as  to  be  unshapely.  Put  into 
a  pot  with  hot  water  (salted)  enough  to  cover  it,  and  boil  until 
you  ascertain,  by  probing  with  a  fork,  that  it  is  tender  in  the 
thickest  part.  Skim  off  all  the  scum  as  it  rises.  Allow  about 
twelve  minutes  to  each  pound.  Take  from  the  fire,  drain  per- 
fectly dry,  and  serve  with  melted  butter,  with  capers,  or 
nasturtium  seed ;  or,  if  you  have  neither  of  these,  some 
cucumber  or  gherkin-pickle  stirred  into  it.  If  you  wish  to  use 
the  broth  for  soup,  put  in  very  little  salt  while  boiling;  if  not, 
salt  well,  and  boil  the  meat  in  a  cloth. 

Mutton  Stew.  % 

Cut  up  from  three  to  four  pounds  ot  mutton, — the  inferior 
portions  will  do  as  well  as  any  other, — crack  the  bones,  and 
remove  all  the  fat.  Put  on  the  meat — the  pieces  not  more 
than  an  inch  and  a  half  in  length — in  a  pot  with  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  well,  and  set  it  where  it  will  heat  gradually. 
Add  nothing  else  until  it  has  stewed  an  hour,  closely  covered ; 
then  throw  in  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  cut  into  strips,  a 
chopped  onion,  and  some  pepper ;  cover  and  stew  an  hour 
longer,  or  until  the  meat  is  very  tender.  Make  out  a  Httle 
paste,  as  for  the  crust  of  a  meat-pie ;  cut  into  squares,  and 
drop  in  the  stew.  Boil  ten  minutes,  and  season  further  by 
the  addition  of  a  little  parsley  and  thyme.  Thicken  with  two 
spoonfuls  of  flour  stirred  into  a  cup  of  cold  milk.  Boil  up 
once,  and  serve  in  a  tureen  or  deep  covered  dish. 

If  green  corn  is  in  season,  this  stew  is  greatly  improved  by 


VEAL. 


69 


adding,  an  hour  before  it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  the  grains  of 
half  a  dozen  ears,  cut  from  the  cob. 

Try  it  for  a  cheap  family  dinner,  and  you  will  repeat  the  ex- 
periment often.  Lamb  is  even  better  for  your  purpose  than 
mutton. 

Mutton  Chops. 

If  your  butcher  has  not  done  it, — and  the  chances  are  that 
he  has  not,  unless  you  stood  by  to  see  it  attended  to, — trim  off 
the  superfluous  fat  and  skin,  so  as  to  give  the  chops  a  certain ' 
litheness  and  elegance  of  shape.  Dip  each  in  beaten  eggs,  roll 
in  pounded  cracker,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  dripping.  If  the  fat 
is  unsalted,  sprinkle  the  chops  with  salt  before  rolling  in  the 
egg.    Serve  up  dry  and  hot. 

Mutton  Cutlets.  (Baked.) 

Cut  them  from  the  neck,  and  trim  neatly.  Lay  aside  the 
bits  of  bone  and  meat  you  cut  off,  to  make  gravy.  Pour  a  little 
melted  butter  over  the  cutlets,  and  let  them  lie  in  it  for  fifteen 
minutes,  keeping  them  just  warm  enough  to  prevent  the  butter 
from  hardening ;  then  dip  each  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker- 
crumbs,  and  lay  them  in  your  dripping-pan  with  a  very  little 
water  at  the  bottom.  Bake  quickly,  and  baste  often  with  but- 
ter and  water.  Put  on  the  bones,  &c.,  in  enough  cold  water 
to  cover  them  ;  stew  and  season  with  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  and 
salt,  with  a  spoonful  of  tomato  catsup.  Strain  when  all  the 
substance  is  extracted  from  the  meal  and  bones ;  thicken  with 
browned  flour,  and  pour  over  the  cutlets  when  they  are  served. 


VEAL. 

Despite  the  prejudice,  secret  or  expressed,  which  prevails 
in  many  minds  againt  veal, — one  which  the  wise  and  witty 
"  Country  Parson  "  has  as  surely  fostered  among  reading  peo- 
ple, as  did  Charles  Lamb  the  partiality  for  roast  pig, — the 


70 


COMMON .  SENSE. 


excellent  and  attractive  dishes  that  own  this  as  their  base  are 
almost  beyond  number.  For  soups  it  is  invaluable,  and  in 
entrees  and  rechauffes  it  plays  a  distinguished  part.  From  his 
head  to  his  feet,  the  animal  that  furnishes  us  with  this  import- 
ant element  of  success  in  what  should  be  the  prime  object  of 
cookery,  to  wit,  to  please  while  we  nourish,  has  proved  him- 
self so  useful  as  an  ally  that  it  behoves  us  to  lift  the  stigma 
from  the  name  of  "  calf,"  provided  he  be  not  too  infantine.  In 
that  case  he  degenerates  into  an  insipid  mass  of  pulpy  muscle 
and  gelatine,  and  deserves  the  bitterest  sneers  that  have  been 
flung  at  his  kind. 

Roast  Veal. 

LOIN. 

Veal  requires  a  longer  time  to  roast  than  mutton  or*  lamb. 
It  is  fair  to  allow  at  least  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  each  pound. 
Heat  gradually,  baste  frequently — at  first  with  salt  and  water, 
afterward  with  gravy.  When  the  meat  is  nearly  done,  dredge 
lightly  wdth  flour,  and  baste  once  wi':h  melted  butter.  Skim 
the  gravy ;  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  boil  up,  and 
put  into  the  gravy-boat. 

Should  the  meat  brown  too  fast,  cover  with  white  paper. 
The  juices,  which  make  up  the  characteristic  flavour  of  meat, 
are  oftener  dried  out  of  veal  than  any  other  flesh  that  comes  to 
our  table. 

BREAST. 

Make  incisions  between  the  ribs  and  the  meat,  and  fill  with 
a  force-meat  made  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  bits  of  pork  or  ham 
chopped  "  exceedingly  small,"  salt,  pepper,  thyme,  sweet 
marjoram,  and  beaten  egg.  Save  a  little  to  thicken  the  grav}^ 
Roast  slowly,  basting  often,  and  the  verdict  of  the  eaters  will 
differ  from  theirs  who  pronounce  this  the  coarsest  part  of  the 
veal.  Dredge,  at  the  last,  with  flour  and  baste  well  once  with 
butter,  as  with  the  loin. 


VEAL. 


71 


FILLET. 

Make  ready  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  chopped  thyme,  and 
parsley  ;  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  rubbed  together  with 
some  melted  butter  or  beef  suit ;  moisten  with  milk  or  hot 
water,  and  bind  with  a  beaten  egg. 

Take  out  the  bone  from  the  meat,  and  pin  securely  into  a 
round  with  skewers ;  then  pass  a  stout  twine  several  times 
about  the  fillet,  or  a  band  of  muslin.  Fill  the  cavity  from 
which  the  bone  was  taken  with  this  stuffing,  and  thrust  between 
the  folds  of  the  meat,  besides  making  incisions  with  a  thin, 
sharp  knife  to  receive  it.  Once  in  a  while  slip  in  a  strip  of 
fat  pork  or  ham.  Baste  at  first  with  salt  and  water,  afterward 
with  gravy.  At  the  last,  dredge  with  flour  and  baste  with 
butter. 

SHOULDER. 

Stuff  as  above,  making  horizontal  incisions  near  the  bone  to 
receive  the  dressing,  and  roast  in  like  manner. 

Veal  Cutlets. 
Dip  in  beaten  egg  when  you  have  sprinkled  a  little  pepper 
and  salt  over  them  ;  then  roll  in  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in 
hot  dripping  or  lard.  If  you  use  butter  or  dripping,  add  a 
little  boiling  water  to  the  gravy  when  the  meat  is  dished ; 
thicken  with  browned  flour,  boil  up  once,  sending  to  table  in 
a  boat. 

Veal  Chops. 

Are  more  juicy  and  less  apt  to  be  tough  and  solid  than  cutlets. 
Trim  the  bone  as  with  mutton  chops,  and  fry,  dipping  in 
beaten  egg  and  cracker-crumbs.  Add  a  little  parsley  and  a 
minced  shallot  to  the  gravy. 

Veal  Steak. 

This  should  be  thinner  than  beef-steak,  and  be  done  through- 
out. Few  persons  are  fond  of  rare  veal.  Broil  upon  a  well- 
greased  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  and  turn  frequently  while 


COMMON  SENSE 


the  steaks  are  cooking.  Put  into  a  saucepan  four  or  five 
young  onions  minced  fine,  a  great  teaspoonful  of  tomato 
catsup,  or  twice  the  quantity  of  stewed  tomato,  a  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  httle  thyme  or  parsley,  with 
a  small  teacupful  of  hot  water.  Let  them  stew  together  while 
the  steaks  are  broiling,  thicken,  before  you  turn  the  gravy  out, 
with  a  spoonful  of  browned  flour.  Add,  if  you  please,  a  half- 
glass  of  wine.  Boil  up  once  hard,  and  when  the  steaks  are 
dished,  with  a  small  bit  of  butter  upon  each,  pour  the  mixture 
over  and  around  them. 

Spinach  is  as  natural  an  accompaniment  to  veal  as  are 
green  peas  to  lamb. 

Veal  Pies. 

Let  your  veal  be  juicy  and  not  too  fat.  Take  out  all  the 
bone,  and  put  with  the  fat  and  refuse  bits,  such  as  skin  or 
gristle,  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  large  teacupful  of  cold  water  to 
make  gravy.  Instead  of  chopping  the  veal,  cut  in  thin,  even 
slices.  Line  a  pudding-dish  with  a  good  paste  and  put  a  layer 
of  veal  in  the  bottom ;  then  one  of  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced, 
each  piece  buttered  and  peppered  before  it  is  laid  upon  the 
veal ;  cover  these  with  sliced  ham  or  thin  strips  of  salt  pork. 
Squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  upon  the  ham.  Then 
another  layer  of  veal,  and  so  on  until  you  are  ready  for  the 
gravy.  This  should  have  been  stewing  for  half  an  hour  or 
so,  with  the  addition  of  pepper  and  a  bunch  of  aromatic 
herbs.  Strain  through  a  thin  cloth  and  pour  over  the  pie. 
Cover  with  crust  and  bake  two  hours. 

Stewed  Fillet  of  Veal. 
Stuff,  and  bind  with  twine  as  for  roasting.  Then  cover  the 
top  and  sides  with  sliced  ham  which  has  been  already  boiled, 
securing  with  skewers,  or  twine  crossing  the  meat  in  all  direc- 
tions. Lay  in  a  pot,  put  in  two  large  cups  of  boiling  water, 
cover  immediately  and  closely,  and  stew  gently — never  letting 
it  cease  to  boil,  yet  never  boiling  hard,  for  four  or  five  hours. 


VEAL. 


73 


A  large  fillet  will  require  nearly  five  hours.  Remove  the  cover 
as  seldom  as  possible,  and  only  to  ascertain  whether  the  water 
has  boiled  away.  If  it  is  too  low,  replenish  from  the  boiling 
kettle.  Take  off  the  strings  when  the  meat  is  done ;  arrange 
the  ham  about  the  fillet  in  the  dish,  and  serve  a  bit  with 
each  slice  of  veal.  Strain  the  gravy,  thicken  with  flour,  boil 
up  once,  and  send  in  a  boat. 

Serve  with  stewed  tomatoes  and  spinach. 

Stew^ed  Knuckle  of  Veal. 

Put  the  meat  into  a  pot  with  two  quarts  of  boiling  water, 
half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  or  ham  cut  into  strips,  a  carrot, 
two  onions,  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  one  of  summer  savory — 
all  cut  fine — two  dozen  whole  pepper-corn,  and  stew,  closely 
covered,  for  three  hours.  When  done,  take  the  meat  from  the 
pot  and  lay  in  the  dish.  Strain  the  gravy,  thicken  with  rice- 
flour,  boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the  meat. 

Veal  Scallop.  % 

Chop  some  cold  roast  or  stewed  veal  very  fine,  put  a  layer 
in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Next  have  a  layer  of  finely  powdered 
crackers.  Strew  some  bits  of  butter  upon  it  and  wet  with  a 
little  milk;  then  more  veal  seasoned  as  before,  and  nnother 
round  of  cracker-crumbs,  with  butter  and  milk.  When  the 
dish  is  full,  wet  well  with  gravy  or  broth,  diluted  with  warm 
water.  Spread  over  all  a  thick  layer  of  cracker  seasoned  with 
salt,  wet  into  a  paste  with  milk  and  bound  with  a  beaten  egg 
or  two,  if  the  dish  be  large.  Stick  butter-bits  thickly  over  it ; 
invert  a  tin  pan  so  as  to  cover  all  and  keep  in  the  steam  and 
bake— if  small,  half  an  hour ;  three-quarters  will  suffice  for  a 
large  dish.  Remove  the  cover  ten  minutes  before  it  is  served, 
and  brown. 

This  simple  and  economical  dish  should  be  an  acquaintance 
with  all  who  are  fond  of  veal  in  any  shape.    Children  gene- 


74 


COMMON  SENSE. 


rally  like  it  exceedingly,  and  I  have  heard  more  than  one 
gentleman  of  excellent  judgment  in  culinary  affairs  declare 
that  the  best  thing  he  knew  about  roast  veal  was  that  it  was 
the  harbinger  of  scallop  on  the  second  day. 
Try  it,  and  do  not  get  it  too  dry. 

Veal  Pates, 

Mince  the  veal  as  above,  and  roll  three  or  four  crackers  to 
powder.  Also,  chop  up  some  cold  ham  and  mix  with  the  veal 
in  the  proportion  of  one-third  ham  and  two-thirds  veal.  Then 
add  the  cracker,  and  wet  well  with  gravy  and  a  little  milk.  If 
you  have  no  gravy,  stir  into  a  cup  of  hot  milk  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter  and  a  beaten  egg.  Season  well  to  your  taste, 
and  bake  in  pate  pans  lined  with  puff-paste.  If  eaten  hot, 
send  to  table  in  the  tins.  If  cold,  slip  the  pates  out  and  pile 
upon  a  plate,  with  sprigs  of  parsley  between.  A  little  oyster- 
liquor  is  a  marked  improvement  to  the  gravy. 

Stewed  Calf's-Head. 

Wash  the  head  in  several  waters,  and  taking  out  the  brains, 
set  them  by  in  a  cool  place.  Tie  the  head  in  a  floured  cloth 
and  boil  it  two  hours  in  hot  water  slightly  salted.  Wash  the 
brains  carefully,  picking  out  all  the  bits  of  skin  and  membrane, 
cleansing  them  over  and  over  until  they  are  perfectly  white. 
Then  stew  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Take  them 
out,  mash  smooth  with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon,  and  add 
gradually,  that  it  may  not  lump,  a  small  teacupful  of  the  water 
in  which  the  head  is  boiled.  Season  with  chopped  parsley,  a 
pinch  of  sage,  pepper,  salt,  and  powdered  cloves,  with  a  great 
spoonful  of  butter.  Set  it  over  the  fire  to  simmer  in  a  sauce- 
pan until  you  are  ready.  When  the  head  is  tender,  take  it  up 
and  drain  very  dry.  Score  thi  top,  and  rub  it  well  over  with 
melted  butter;  dredge  with  fiour  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown. 
Or,  you  can  use  beaten  egg  and  cracker-crumbs  in  place  of  the 
butter  and  flour. 


VEAL. 


75 


When  you  serve  the  head,  pour  the  gravy  over  it. 

Never  skin  a  cah'^s-head.  Scald  as  you  would  that  of  a  pig. 
A  little  lye  in  the  water  will  remove  the  hair — as  will  also 
pounded  rosin,  applied  before  it  is  put  info  the  water. 

Calf's-Head.  (Scalloped.)  % 

Clean  the  head,  remove  the  brains,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 
Boil  the  head  until  the  meat  slips  easily  from  the  bones.  Take 
it  out  and  chop  fine,  season  with  herbs,  pepper,  and  salt  : 
then  put  in  layers  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  with  bits  of 
butter  between  each  layer.  Moisten  well  with  the  hquor  in 
which  the  head  was  boiled.  Wash  the  brains  very  thoroughly, 
removing  all  the  membrane.  Beat  them  into  a  smooth  paste, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  in  with  them  two  eggs 
beaten  very  light.  Spread  this  evenly  over  the  scallop,  dredge 
the  top  with  a  little  flour,  and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown.  Half 
an  hour  will  be  long  enough. 

Sweet-Breads.  (Fried.)  % 

Wash  very  carefully,  and  dry  v\^ith  a  linen  cloth.  Lard  with 
narrow  strips  of  fat  salt  pork,  set  closely  together.  Use  for  this 
purpose  a  larding-needle.  Lay  the  sweet-breads  in  a  clean,  hot 
fr3'ing-pan,  which  has  been  well  buttered  or  greased,  and  cook 
to  a  fine  brown,  turning  frequently  until  the  pork  is  crisp. 

Sweet-Breads.  (Broiled.)  % 

Parboil,  rub  them  well  with  butter,  and  broil  on  a  clean 
gridiron.  Turn  frequently,  and  now  and  then  roll  over  in  a 
plate  containing  some  hot  melted  butter.  This  will  prevent 
them  from  getting  too  dry  and  hard. 

Sweet-Breads.  ( Stewed.)  \ 
When  you  have  washed  them,  and  removed  all  bits  of  skin 
and  fatty  matter,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  heat  to  a  boil. 
Pour  off  the  hot  water,  and  cover  with  cold  until  the  sweet- 


76 


COMMON  SENSE. 


breads  are  firm.  If  you  desire  to  have  them  very  rich,  lard  as  for 
frying  before  you  put  in  the  second  water.  They  are  more 
delicate,  however,  if  the  pork  be  left  out.  Stew  in  a  very  little 
water  the  second  time.  When  they  are  tender,  add  for  each 
sweet-bread  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  with  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  little  cream.  Let 
them  simmer  in  this  gravy  for  five  minutes,  then  take  them  up. 
Send  to  table  in  a  covered  dish,  with  the  gravy  poured  over 
them. 

If  you  lard  the  sweet-breads,  substitute  for  the  cream  in  the 
gravy  a  glass  of  good  wine.  In  this  case,  take  the  sweet-breads 
out  before  it  is  put  into  the  gravy.  Boil  up  once  and  pour 
over  them. 

Minced  Veal. 

Take  the  remains  of  a  cold  roast  of  veal  fillet,  shoulder  or 
breast,  arid  cut  all  the  meat  from  the  bones.  Put  the  latter, 
with  the  outside  slices  and  the  gristly  pieces,  into  a  saucepan, 
with  a  cup  of  cold  water,  some  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  and  salt. 
If  you  have  a  bit  of  bacon  convenient,  cr  a  ham-bone,  add  this 
and  omit  the  salt.  Stew  all  together  for  an  hour,  then  strain, 
thicken  with  flour,  return  to  the  fire,  and  boil  five  minutes 
longer,  stirring  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Meanwhile,  mince  the  cold  veal,  and  when  the  gravy  is 
ready  put  this  in  a  little  at  a  time.  Let  it  almost  boil,  when 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  or  three  of  milk,  stirring  all 
the  while.  Lastly,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a 
moment  later  half  a  glass  of  sherry  or  Maderia  wine. 

The  mince-meat  should  be  dry  enough  to  heap  into  a 
shape  in  a  flat  dish  or  chafing-dish.  Lay  triangles  of  buttered 
toast  about  the  base  of  the  mound,  and  on  the  top  a  poached 
egg. 

The  remains  of  cold  roast  beef  treated  in  this  manner,  sub- 
stituting for  the  toast  balls  of  mashed  potato,  will  make  a  neat 
and  palatable  dish. 


PORK. 


77 


Send  around  spinach  or  stewed  tomatoes  with  minced  veal ; 
scraped  horseradish  steeped  in  vinegar  with  the  beef. 

Calf's  Liver  [Roasted). 
Soak  the  liver  in  salt  and  water  an  hour  to  draw  out  the 
blood.    Wipe  perfectly  dry,  and  stuff  with  a  forcemeat  made 
of  bread-crumbs,  two  slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  chopped  small,  a 
shallot,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg ;  sweet  marjoram  and  thyme"^ 
and,  if  you  choose,  a  little  sage.    Moisten  this  with  butter 
melted  in  a  very  little  hot  water,  and  two  raw  eggs,  well  beaten. 
In  order  to  get  this  into  the  liver,  make  an  incision  with  a 
narrow  sharp  knife,  and  without  enlarging  the  aperture  where 
I  the  blade  entered,  move  the  point  dexterously  to  and  fro,  to 
I  enlarge  the  cavity  inside.    Stuff  this  full  of  the  forcemeat,  sew 
or  skewer  up  the  outer  orifice ;  lard  with  strips  of  salt  pork, 
\  and  roast  for  an  hour,  basting  twice  with  butter  and  water, 
afterward  with  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan.    Pour  the  gravy 
over  the  liver  when  done. 

Roasted  Hver  is  very  good  cold,  cut  into  slices  like  tongue. 

Calf's  Liver.  (Stewed.) 
Slice  the  liver  and  lay  in  salt  and  water  an  hour.  Then  cut 
into  dice  and  put  over  the  fire,  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
lit  well.  Cover  and  stew  steadily  for  an  hour,  when  add  salt, 
I  pepper,  a  little  mace,  sweet  marjoram,  parsley,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ifui  Worcestershire  sauce.  Stew  again  steadily,  not  fast,  for  half 
ian  hour  longer,  when  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  of 
:  browned  flour — wet  with  cold  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon- 
juice  and  one  of  currant  jelly.  Boil  five  minutes  longer,  and 
(dish.    A  little  wine  is  an  improvement. 


PORK. 

At  the  South,  where,  in  spite  of  the  warm  climate,  the  con- 
sumption of  pork  is  double  that  of  the  North,  the  full-grown 


78 


COMMON  SENSE. 


hog  is  seldom  represented  by  any  of  his  parts  at  the  table, 
fresh  or  pickled,  unless  it  be  during  killing-time ;  then  fresh 
spare -ribs,  chine,  and  steak,  with  other  succulent  bits,  are  wel- 
come upon  the  choicest  bills  of  fare.  The  rest  of  the  animal 
— ham,  shoulders,  and  middlings — is  consigned  to  the  pack- 
ing-barrel, and  ultimately  to  the  smoke-house.  But,  in  cool 
weather,  "  shoat  " — /.  pig  under  six  months  of  age — is  abun- 
dantly displayed  in  m.arket,  and  highly  esteemed  by  all  classes. 
The  meat  is  fine  and  sweet,  and,  unless  too  fat,  nearly  as  deh. 
cate  as  that  of  chicken — a  very  different  looking  and  tasting 
dish  from  the  gross,  oleaginous  joint  and  "  chunks"  offered  for 
sale  in  many  otl)er  regions  as  "  nice  young  pork."  Those  of 
my  readers  who  can  command  "  shoat  "  are  to  be  heartily  con- 
gratulated. Those  whose  butchers  dispense  only  portions  of 
the  mature  porker  will  do  well,  in  my  opinion,  if  they  rarely 
admit  him  to  their  families  before  he  has  been  salted,  and  been 
thereby  purged  of  many  unwholesome  properties.  Few 
stomachs,  save  those  of  out-door  laborers,  can  digest  the  fresh 
meat  of  a  two  or  three,  or  even  one  year  old  hog.  This  is  the 
truthful,  but,  to  unaccustomed  ears,  offensive  name  for  him  at 
the  South  and  West,  where  his  qualities  and  habits  are  best 
known. 

The  parts  of  a  properly  dissected  hog  are  the  hams, 
shoulders,  griskin  or  chine,  the  loin,  middlings,  spare-ribs, 
head,  feet,  liver,  and  haslet.  The  choice  portions  are  hams, 
shoulders,  and,  for  roasting,  the  loin.  All  hogs  should  be  kept 
up  and  well  fed  for  three  weeks,  at  least,  before  they  are  killed; 
their  styes  be  frequently  cleaned,  and  furnished  with  abun- 
dance of  water,  renewed  every  day.  Sir  Grunter  would  be  a 
more  cleanly  creature  if  he  were  allowed  more  extensive  water 
privileges.  If  it  were  possible — and  in  the  country  this  may 
sometimes  be  done— to  build  his  pen  on  the  bank  of  a  run- 
ning stream,  he  would  speedily  redeem  his  character  from  the 
stain  cast  upon  it  by  the  popular  verdict,  and  the  superior 
quaUty  of  the  meat  repay  the  thoughtful  kindness  of  his  owner. 


POKK. 


79 


It  is  a  disgrace  to  humanity,  hardly  second  to  tjie  barbarities  ot 
swill-milk  manufactories,  this  compulsory  filth  of  any  domestic 
animal.  Those  who,  like  myself,  have  been  loathing  witnesses 
of  the  pig-pens  upon  the  premises  of  well-to-do  farmers — the  re- 
ceptacle of  the  vilest  slops  and  offal,  never  cleaned  except  during 
the  yearly  removal  of  manure  from  barn-yard  to  field — cannot 
marvel  at  the  growing  prejudice  against  pork  in  all  its  varieties 
that  pervades  our  best  classes.  We  feed  the  hog  with  the  off- 
scourings (this  is  literal)  of  house,  garden,  and  table;  bed  him 
in  mire,  and  swell  him  with  acetous  fermentation,  not  to  say 
active  decomposition,  and  then  abuse  him  for  being  what  we 
have  made  him.  I  am  persuaded — and  wiser  people  than  I 
declare — that  hog-scrofula  and  cholera,  and  the  rest  of  the  train 
of  fleshy  ills  that  are  the  terror  of  pork-raisers,  have,  one  and 
all,  their  root  in  this  unseemly  inhumanity.  Eschew  fresh 
pork  we  may,  but  we  cannot  dispense  with  hams,  shoulders, 
and,  most  valuable  of  all  to  the  cook,  lard  and  pickled  pork. 
Real  sausage,  porcine  and  home-made,  is  still  sweet  and  plea- 
sant to  the  unpampered  palate  ;  and  of  roast  pig,  the  gentlest 
and  most  genial  of  English  essayists  did  not  disdain  to  become 
the  eulogist.  In  memory  of  his  usefulness,  in  belief  of  the 
healthfulness  which  should  be  his  birthright,  and  the  safeguard 
of  his  consumers,  let  us  treat  Bristle  well— I  do  not  say  philo- 
sophically, but  sensibly  and  kindly. 

A  pig  should  not  be  allowed  to  eat  anything  for  twenty-four 
hours  before  he  is  killed.    After  he  is  butchered,  great  care 
should  be  exercised  to  keep  the  pork  from  tainting ;  it  spoils 
I  more  readily,  when  fresh,  than  any  other  meat.  Cook  all  kinds 
I  of  pork  thoroughly.    When  underdone  it  is  not  only  unpalat- 
able, but  exceedingly  unwholesome. 

Roast  Leg  of  Pork. 
One  weighing  about  seven  pounds  is  enough,  even  for  a 
large  family.    If  the  pig  is  young,  the  leg  will  be  even  smaller. 
Score  the  skin  in  squares,  or  parallel  lines  running  from  side 


80 


COMMON  SENSE. 


to  side,  for  the  convenience  of  the  carver.  Pat  it  down  to 
roast  with  a  very  little  water  in  the  pan  below.  Heat 
gradually  until  the  fat  begins  to  ooze  from  the  meat,  when 
quicken  the  fire  to  a  red,  steady  glow.  Baste  only  with  its 
own  gravy,  and  do  this  often,  that  the  skin  may  not  be  hard 
or  tough.  When  done  take  it  up,  skim  the  gravy  thoroughly, 
put  in  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  thicken  with  brown 
flour,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  serve  in 
a  boat. 

Loin  of  Pork. 

Cook  as  you  would  a  leg,  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  a  pound 
in  roasting.  This  is  a  good  rule  for  fresh  pork,  the  meat  being 
coarser  and  of  closer  grain  than  are  more  delicate  meats. 

A  shoulder  is  roasted  in  the  same  way. 

Roast  Spare-Rib. 

When  first  put  down  to  the  fire,  cover  with  a  greased  paper 
until  it  is  half  done.  Remove  it  then,  and  dredge  with  flour. 
A  few  minutes  later,  baste  once  with  butter,  and  afterward, 
every  little  while,  with  its  own  gravy.  This  is  necessary,  the 
spare  rib  being  a  very  dry  piece.  Just  before  you  take  it  up, 
strew  over  the  surface  thickly  with  fine  bread-crumbs  seasoned 
with  powdered  sage,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  small  onion  minced 
into  almost  invisible  bits.  Let  it  cook  five  minutes  and  baste 
once  more  with  butter.  Skim  the  gravy,  add  a  half-cupful  of 
hot  water,  thicken  with  brown  flour,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  strain,  and  pour  over  the  meat  in  the  dish. 

Send  tomato  catsup  around  with  it,  or  if  you  prefer,  put  a 
.liberal  spoonful  in  the  gravy,  after  it  is  strained. 

Roast  Chine. 

A  chine  is  treated  precisely  as  is  the  spare-rib,  except  that 
the  strip  of  skin  running  along  the  back  is  scored  closely.  If 
you  wish,  you  can  omit  the  bread-crumb  crust,  the  onion  and 
sage.    In  carving,  cut  thin  horizontal  slices  from  the  ribs, 


PORK. 


81 


Chine  is  best  cold.  The  meat  next  the  ribs  is  delicious  when 
scraped  off  and  made  into  sandwiches,  or  laid  upon  buttered 
toast. 

Roast  Pig. 

A  month-old  pig,  if  he  be  well-grown  and  plump,  is  best  for 
this  purpose.  It  is  hardly  possible  that  any  lady  housekeeper 
will  ever  be  called  upon  to  do  the  butcher's  work  upon  the 
bodies  of  full-grown  hogs,  or  even  "  shoat"~a  task  that  re- 
quires the  use  of  hatchet  or  cleaver.  It  is  well  that  she  should 
know  how  to  clean  and  dress  the  baby  pig,  which  is  not  larger 
than  a  Thanksgiving  turkey. 

As  soon  as  it  is  really  cold,  make  ready  a  large  boiler  of 
scalding  water.  Lay  the  pig  in  cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes  ; 
then,  holding  it  by  the  hind  leg,  plunge  it  into  the  boiling 
water,  and  shake  it  about  violently  until  you  can  pull  the  hair 
off  by  the  handful.  Take  it  out,  wipe  it  dry,  and  with  a  crash 
cloth  or  v/hisk  broom  rub  the  hair  off,  brushing  from  the  tail 
to  the  head,  until  the  skin  is  perfectly  clean.  Cut  it  open, 
take  out  the  entrails,  and  wash  very  thoroughly  with  cold  water, 
then  with  soda  and  water,  to  remove  any  unpleasant  odor ; 
next  with  salt  and  water.  Rinse  with  fair  v/ater  and  wipe  in- 
side. Then  wrap  in  a  wet  cloth,  and  keep  this  saturated  with 
cold  water  until  you  are  ready  to  stuff  it.  If  these  directions 
be  followed  implicitly,  the  pig  will  be  fair  and  white,  as  if  in- 
trusted to  a  professional  butcher. 

For  stuffing,  take  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  half  a  chopped 
onion,  two  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage,  three  tablespoonfuls 
melted  butter,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  half  a  grated  nutmeg, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Mix  all  these 
ingredients,  except  the  egg,  together,  incorporating  them  well ; 
moisten  with  half  a  cup  of  warm  water  (or  milk),  beat  in  the  ^ 
eggs,  and  stuff  the  pig  into  his  natural  size  and  shape.  Sew 
him  up,  and  bend  his  fore-feet  backward,  his  hind-feet  forward, 
under  and  close  to  the  body,  and  skewering  them  into  the 
proper  position.    Dry  it  well,  and  dredge  with  flour.    Put  it 


82 


COMMON  SENSE. 


to  roast  with  a  little  hot  water,  slightly  salted,  in  the  dripping- 
pan.  Baste  with  butter  and  water  three  times,  as  the  pig 
gradually  warms,  afterward  with  the  dripping.  When  it  begins 
to  smoke  or  steam,  rub  it  over,  every  five  minutes  or  so,  with 
a  cloth  dipped  in  melted  butter.  Do  not  omit  this  precaution 
if  you  would  have  the  skin  tender  and  soft  after  it  begins  to 
brown.  A  month-old  pig  will  require  about  an  hour  and  three 
quarters  or  two  hours — sometimes  longer — to  roast,  if  the  fire 
be  brisk  and  steady. 

Should  you  or  your  guests  dislike  onion,  prepare  your  stuff- 
ing without  it.  The  following  is  a  good  receipt  for  rich  and 
savory  fore-meat  for  a  pig  : — 

One  cup  of  bread-crumbs,  an  ounce  of  suet,  a  bunch  of 
parsley  minced  fine,  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage,  pepper,  salt, 
and  nutmeg,  a  Httle  thyme,  half  a  glass  Madeira  or  sherry,  juice 
of  a  lemon,  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  a  cup  of  oyster- 
liquor,  and  two  well-beaten  eggs.  For  a  Christmas  pig,  it  is 
worth  one's  while  to  take  the  trouble  to  prepare  this  stuffing. 

If  your  pig  is  large,  you  can  cut  off  his  head  and  split  him 
down  the  back  before  sending  to  table.  Do  this  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  lay  the  backs  together.  But  it  is  a  pity  !  I  have 
before  me  now  the  vision  of  a  pig  I  once  saw  served  whole  on 
the  table  of  a  friend,  that  forbids  me  ever  to  mutilate  the 
innocent  before  the  guests  have  a  chance  to  feast  their  eyes 
upon  the  goodly  picture.  He  was  done  to  a  turn — a  rich, 
even  brown,  without  a  seam  or  crack  from  head  to  tail,  and  he 
knelt  in  a  bed  of  deep-green  parsley,  alternately  with  bunches 
of  whitish-green  celery  tops  (the  inner  and  tender  leaves) ;  a 
garland  of  the  same  was  about  his  neck,  and  in  his  mouth  was 
a  tuft  of  white  caufiflower,  surrounded  by  a  setting  of  curled 
parsley.  Very  simple,  you  see;  but  I  never  beheld  a  more 
ornamental  roast. 

Skim  your  gravy  well ;  add  a  little  hot  water,  thicken  with 
brown  flour,  boil  up  once,  strain,  and,  when  you  have  added 


PORK. 


83 


half  a  glass  of  wine  and  half  the  juice  ot  a  lemon,  serve  in  a 
tureen. 

In  carving  the  pig,  cut  off  his  head  firs^ ;  then  split  down 
the  back,  take  off  hams  and  shoulders,  and  separate  the  ribs. 
Serve  some  of  the  dressing  to  each  person. 

1  have  been  thus  minute  in  describing  the  preparation  of  this 
holiday  dish,  because  it  is  erroneously  considered  a  difficult 
task.  Any  cook  wiih  a  moderate  degree  of  judgment  and  ex- 
perience can  undertake  it  with  a  reasonable  expectation  ot 
success. 

Pork  Steaks. 

Those  from  the  loin  are  best,  but  they  can  be  cut  from  the 
neck.  Remove  the  skin  and  trim  neatly.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  Some  excellent  house- 
wives broil  without  seasoning,  adding  pepper,  salt,  a  pinch  of 
sage,  another  of  minced  onion,  and  a  lump  of  butter  after  they 
are  put  into  the  hot  dish.  Then  cover  closely  and  set  in  the 
oven  for  five  minutes,  until  the  aroma  of  the  condiments  flavors 
the  meat.  Try  this  method.  You  can  cook  spare-rib  in  the 
same  manner. 

Pork  Chops. 

Remove  the  skin,  trim  them,  and  dip  first  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  cracker-crumbs  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  minced 
onion,  and  a  little  sage.  Fry  in  hot  lard  or  drippings  twenty 
or  thirty  minutes,  turning  often.  The  gravy  of  this  dish  is 
usually  too  rich  or  fat  to  accompany  the  meat. 

Pork  cutlets  are  cooked  in  like  manner.  Send  apple-sauce 
to  the  table  with  them,  and  season  with  tomato  catsup. 

Stewed  Pork. 
Take  some  tolerably  lean  slices  from  the  leg,  or  bits  left 
from  trimming  the  various  pieces  into  shape.  Cut  into  dice 
an  inch  square,  put  into  a  pot  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
them,  and  stew  gently  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  closely 
covered.    Meanwhile  parboil  half  a  dozen  Irish  potatoes,  cut 


84 


COMMON  SENSE. 


in  thick  slices,  in  another  vessel.  When  the  pork  has  stewed 
the  allotted  time,  drain  off  the  water  from  these  and  add  to 
the  meat.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  minced  shallot,  a  spoon- 
ful of  pungent  catsup,  and  a  bunch  of  aromatic  herbs.  Cover 
again,  and  stew  twenty  minutes  longer,  or  until  the  meat  is 
tender  throughout. 

If  your  meat  be  not  too  fat,  this  stew  will  be  very  good, 
especially  on  a  cold  day. 

You  can  stew  cutlets  in  the  same  way. 

Pig's  Head  {Roasted ). 
Take  the  head  of  a  half-grown  pig;  clean  and  split  it, 
taking  out  the  brains  and  setting  these  aside  in  a  cool  place. 
Parboil  the  head  in  salted  water,  drain  off  this,  wipe  the  head 
dry,  and  wash  all  over  with  beaten  egg ;  dredge  thickly  with 
bread-crumbs,  seasoned  with  pepper,  sage,  and  onion,  and 
roast,  basting  twice  with  butter  and  water;  then  with  the 
liquor  in  which  the  head  was  boiled ;  at  last  with  the  gravy 
that  runs  from  the  meat.  Wash  the  brains  in  several  waters 
until  they  are  white  ;  beat  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  one-quarter 
part  fine  bread-crumbs,  pepper,  and  salt;  make  into  balls, 
binding  with  a  beaten  egg ;  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a 
light  brown.  Arrange  about  the  head  when  it  is  dished.  Skim 
the  gravy  left  in  the  dripping-pan,  thicken  with  brown  flour, 
add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  boil  up  once.  Pour  it  over  the 
head. 

Head-Cheese  {or  Souse). 
This  is  made  of  the  head,  ears,  and  tongue.  Boil  them  in 
salted  water  until  very  tender.  Strip  the  meat  from  the  bones 
and  chop  fine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  sage,  sweet  marjoram, 
a  little  powdered  cloves,  and  half  a  cup  of  strong  vinegar. 
Mix  all  together  thoroughly,  taste  to  see  that  it  is  flavored 
sufficiently,  remembering  that  the  spice  tends  to  keep  it,  and 
pack  hard  in  moulds  or  bowls,  interspersing  the  layers  with 
bits  of  the  tongue  cut  in  oblongs,  squares,  and  triangles  not 


PORK. 


85 


less  than  an  inch  in  length.  Press  down  and  keep  the  meat 
in  shape  by  putting  a  plate  on  the  top  of  each  mould  (first 
wetting  the  plate)  and  a  weight  upon  this.  In  two  days  the 
cheese  will  be  ready  for  use.  Turn  out  from  the  shapes  as 
you  wish  to  use  it ;  or,  should  you  desire  to  keep  it  for  several 
weeks,  take  the  cheese  from  the  moulds  and  immerse  in  cold 
vinegar  in  stone  jars.  This  will  preserve  it  admirably,  and 
you  have  only  to  pare  away  the  outside,  should  it  be  too  acid 
for  your  taste. 

This  is  generally  eaten  cold  for  tea,  with  vinegar  and  mus- 
tard ;  but  it  is  very  nice  cut  in  slices,  seasoned  slightly  with 
mustard,  and  warmed  in  a  frying-pan  with  enough  butter  to 
prevent  burning.  Or,  you  may  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  cracker- 
crumbs,  and  fry  for  breakfast. 

If  the  tongue  is  arranged  judiciously,  the  slices  will  be 
prettily  marbled. 

Pork  Pot-pie. 

You  can  make  this  of  lean  pork  cut  from  any  part  of  the 
pig,  but  the  chine  is  best.  Crack  the  bones  well,  and  cut  up 
the  chine  into  riblettes  two  inches  long.  Line  your  pot,  which 
should  be  round  at  the  bottom  and  well  greased,  with  a  good 
light  paste ;  put  in  the  meat,  then  a  layer  of  parboiled  pota- 
toes, split  in  half,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt  as  you  go 
on.  When  the  pot  is  nearly  full,  pour  in  a  quart  of  cold 
water  and  put  on  the  upper  crust,  cutting  a  small  round  hole 
out  of  the  middle,  through  which  you  can  add  hot  water  should 
the  gravy  boil  away  too  fast.  Slips  of  paste  may  also  be  strewed 
among  the  meat  and  potatoes.  Put  on  the  pot-lid,  and  boil 
from  one  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours.  When  done,  remove 
the  upper  crust  carefully,  turn  out  the  meat  and  gravy  into  a 
bowl,  that  you  may  get  at  the  lower.  Lay  this  upon  a  hot 
dish,  put  the  meat,  etc.,  in  order  upon  it,  pour  the  ftravy  over 
it,  and  cover  with  the  top  crust.  This  can  be  browned  with 
a  red-hot  shovel,  or  oven-lid, 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Sausage. 

6  lbs.  lean  fresh  pork. 

3  "    fat       "  " 

12  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage. 

6  *'          black  pepper. 

6  "  salt. 

2  "          powdered  mace. 

2  "  "  cloves. 

I  grated  nutmeg. 

Grind  the  meat,  fat  and  lean,  in  a  sausage-mill,  or  chop  it 
very  fine.  The  mill  is  better,  and  the  grinding  does  not  occupy 
one-tenth  of  the  time  that  chopping  does,  to  say  nothing  of 
the  labor.  One  can  be  bought  for  three  or  four  dollars,  and  will 
repay  the  purchaser.  Mix  the  seasoning  in  with  your  hands, 
taste,  to  be  sure  all  is  right,  and  pack  down  in  stone  jars, 
pouring  melted  lard  on  top.  Another  good  way  of  preserving 
them  is,  to  make  long  narrow  bags  of  stout  muslin,  large 
enough  to  contain,  each,  enough  sausage  for  a  family  dish. 
Fill  these  with  the  meat,  dip  in  melted  lard,  and  hang  from 
the  beams  of  the  cellar. 

If  you  wish  to  pack  in  the  intestines  of  the  hog,  they 
should  be  carefully  prepared  as  follows :  Empty  them,  cut 
them  in  lengths,  and  lay  for  two  days  in  salt  and  water.  Turn 
them  inside  out,  and  lay  in  soak  one  day  longer.  Scrape 
them,  rinse  well  in  soda  and  water,  wipe,  and  blow  into  one 
end,  having  tied  up  the  other  with  a  bit  of  twine.  If  they 
are  whole  and  clear,  stuff  with  the  meat ;  tie  up  and  hang  in 
the  store-room  or  cellar. 

These  are  fried  in  the  cases,  in  a  clean,  dry  frying-pan,  until 
brown.  If  you  have  the  sausage-meat  in  bulk,  make  into 
small,  round  flat  cakes,  and  fry  in  the  same  way.  Some  dip 
in  egg  and  pounded  cracker — others  roll  in  flour  before  cook- 
ing. Their  own  fat  will  cook  them.  Send  to  table  dry  and 
hot,  but  do  not  let  them  fry  hard.    When  one  side  is  done, 


PORK. 


87 


turn  the  other.  The  fire  should  be  very  brisk.  Ten  minutes, 
or  twelve  at  the  outside,  is  long  enough  to  cook  them. 

Bologna  Sausage  {Cooked). 

2  lbs.  lean  beef. 
2  "  "  veal. 
2    "    "  pork. 

2    "  fat  salt  pork — not  smoked. 

1  lb.  beef  suet. 

10  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage. 

4  lbs.  marjoram,  parsley,  savory,  and  thyme— mixed. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cayenne  pepper,  and  the  same  of  black. 
I  grated  nutmeg. 

I  teaspoonful  cloves. 
I  minced  onion. 
Salt  to  taste. 

Chop  or  grind  the  meat  and  suet ;  season,  and  stuff  into 
beef-skins  ;  tie  these  up ;  prick  each  in  several  places  to  allow 
the  escape  of  the  steam  ;  put  into  hot — not  boiling  water,  and 
heat  gradually  to  the  boiling-point.  Cook  slowly  for  one  hour  ; 
take  out  the  skins  and  lay  them  to  dry  in  the  sun,  upon  clean, 
sweet  straw  or  hay.  Rub  the  outside  of  the  skins  with  oil  or 
melted  butter,  and  hang  in  a  cool,  dry  cellar.  If  you  mean 
to  keep  it  more  than  a  week,  rub  pepper  or  powdered  ginger 
upon  the  outside.  You  can  wash  it  off  before  sending  to  table. 
This  is  eaten  without  further  cooking.  Cut  in  round  slice^, 
and  lay  sHced  lemon  around  the  edge  of  the  dish,  as  many 
like  to  squeeze  a  few  drops  upon  the  sausage  before  eating. 

Lard. 

Every  housekeeper  knows  how  unfit  for  really  nice  cooking 
is  the  pressed  lard  sold  in  stores  as  the  best  and  cheapest." 
It  is  close  and  tough,  melts  slowly,  and  is  sometimes  diversi- 
fied by  fibrous  lumps.  And  even  when  lard  has  been  "  tried 
out"  by  the  usual  process,  it  is  often  mixed  with  so  much 


88 


COMMON  SENSE. 


water  as  to  remind  us  unpleasantly  that  it  is  bought  by 
weight. 

The  best  way  of  preparing  the  ''leaf  lard,"  as  it  is  called, 
is  to  skin  it  carefully,  wash,  and  let  it  drain ;  then  put  it,  cut 
into  bits,  into  a  large  tin  kettle  or  bucket,  and  set  this  in  a 
pot  of  boiHng  water.  Stir  from  time  to  time  until  it  is  melt- 
ed ;  throw  in  a  very  little  salt,  to  make  the  sediment  settle ; 
and  when  it  is  hot— (it  should  not  boil  fast  at  any  time,  but 
simmer  gently  until  clear)— strain  through  a  coarse  cloth  into 
jars.  Do  not  squeeze  the  cloth  so  long  as  the  clear  fat  will 
run  through,  and  when  you  do,  press  the  refuse  into  a  different 
vessel,  to  be  used  for  commoner  purposes  than  the  other. 

Most  of  the  lard  in  general  use  is,  however,  made  from  the 
fatty  portions  of  pork  lying  next  the  skin  of  the  hog,  and  are 
left  for  this  purpose  by  the  butcher.  Scrape  from  the  rind, 
and  cut  all  into  dice.  Fill  a  large  pot,  putting  in  a  teacupful 
of  water  to  prevent  scorching,  and  melt  very  slowly,  stirring 
every  few  minutes.  Simmer  until  there  remains  nothing  of 
the  meat  but  fibrous  bits.  Remove  these  carefully  with  a  per- 
forated skimmer ;  throw  in  a  little  salt,  to  settle  the  fat,  and 
when  it  is  clear,  strain  through  a  fine  cullender,  a  sieve,  or  a 
coarse  cloth.  Dip  the  latter  in  boiling  water,  should  it  become 
clogged  by  the  cooling  lard.  Observe  the  directions  about 
squeezing  the  strainer.  If  your  family  is  small,  bear  in  mind 
that  lard  keeps  longer  in  small  than  large  vessels.  Set  away 
the  jars,  closely  covered,  in  a  cool,  dry  cellar  or  store-room. 

In  trying  out  lard,  the  chief  danger  is  of  burning.  Simmer 
gently  over  a  steady  fire,  and  give  it  your  whole  attention  until 
it  is  done.  A  moment's  neglect  will  ruin  all.  Stir  very  often 
—almost  constantly  at  the  last— and  from  the  bottom,  until 
the  salt  is  thrown  in  to  settle  it,  when  withdraw  to  a  less  hot 
part  of  the  fire.  Bladders  tied  over  lard  jars  are  the  best 
protection ;  next  to  these,  paper,  and  outside  of  this,  cloths 
dipped  in  melted  grease. 


POEK. 


89 


Brawn. 

Pig's  head  weighing  6  lbs. 
I  lb.  lean  beef. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 

^  teaspoonful  pepper  (black  or  white), 
teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper, 
teaspoonful  mace. 
A  pinch  of  cloves. 
A  small  onion  minced  very  fine. 
Clean  and  wash  the  head,  and  stew  with  the  beef  in  enough 
cold  water  to  cover.    When  the  bones  will  slip  out  easily,  re- 
move them,  after  draining  off  the  liquor.  Chop  the  meat  finely 
while  it  is  hot,  season,  and  pour  all  into  a  mould,  wet  inside 
with  cold  water.    If  you  can  have  a  tin  mould  made  in  the 
shape  of  a  boar's  head,  your  brawn  will  look  well  at  a  Christ- 
mas feast. 

To  Pickle  Pork. 

Hams,  shoulders,  chines,  and  "  middlings,"  are  the  parts  of 
the  hog  which  are  usually  pickled.  This  should  be  done  as 
soon  as  may  be  after  the  meat  is  fairly  cold— especially  in 
moderate  weather.  When  you  can  pack  down  pork  twenty-four 
hours  after  butchering,  it  is  best  to  do  so,  unless  the  cold  be 
severe  enough  to  preserve  it  longer, 
lbs.  salt. 
I  lb.  brown  sugar. 

I  oz.  saltpetre  in  3  gallons  of  water. 

Put  into  a  large  saucepan  and  boil  for  half  an  hour,  skim- 
ming off  the  scum.  When  cold,  pour  over  the  meat,  and  let 
it  lie  for  a  few  days. 

This  is  intended  to  corn  a  small  quantity  of  meat  for  family 
use. 

Boiled  Ham. 

Soak  in  water  over  night.  Next  morning  wash  hard  with  a 
coarse  cloth  or  stiff  brush,  and  put  on  to  boil  with  plenty  of 


90 


COMMON  SENSE. 


cold  water.  Allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  each  pound  in 
cooking,  and  do  not  boil  too  fast.  Do  not  remove  the  skin 
until  cold ;  it  will  come  off  easily  and  cleanly  then,  and  the 
uices  are  better  preserved  than  when  it  is  stripped  hot.  Send 
to  table  with  dots  of  pepper  or  dry  mustard  on  the  top,  a 
tuft  of  fringed  paper  twisted  about  the  shank,  and  garnish  with 
parsley. 

Cut  very  thin  in  carving. 

Glazed  Ham.  J 

Brush  the  ham — a  cold  boiled  one,  from  which  the  skin  has 
been  taken — well,  all  over  with  beaten  egg.  To  a  cup  of  pow- 
dered cracker  allow  enough  rich  milk  or  cream  to  make  into  a 
thick  paste,  salt,  and  work  in  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter. 
Spread  this  evenly  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  over  the  ham,  and 
set  to  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Steamed  Ham. 

This  is  by  far  the  best  way  of  cooking  a  ham.  Lay  in  cold 
water  for  twelve  hours  ;  wash  very  thoroughly,  rubbing  with  a 
stiff  brush,  to  dislodge  the  salt  and  smoke  on  the  outside.  Put 
into  a  steamer,  cover  closely,  and  set  it  over  a  pot  of  boiling 
water.  Allow  at  least  twenty  minutes  to  a  pound.  Keep  the 
water  at  a  hard  boil. 

If  you  serve  ham  hot,  skin,  and  immediately  strew  thickly 
with  cracker  or  bread-crumbs,  to  prevent  the  waste  of  the 
essence.    Put  a  frill  of  paper  about  the  knuckle. 

Send  around  cabbage  or  other  green  vegetables  with  it. 

Baked  Ham. 

Soak  for  twelve  hours.  Trim  away  the  rusty  part  from 
the  under  side  and  edges,  wipe  very  dry,  cover  the  bottom  with 
a  paste  made  of  flour  and  hot  water,  and  lay  it  upside  down  in 
the  dripping-pan,  with  enough  water  to  keep  it  from  burning. 
Bake  five  hours,  or  allow  fully  twenty-five  minutes  to  a  pound. 


PORK. 


91 


Baste  now  and  then,  to  prevent  the  crust  from  cracking  and 
scaling  off.  When  done,  peal  off  this  and  the  skin,  and  glaze 
as  you  would  a  cold  ham. 

Put  cut  paper  about  the  knuckle,  and  garnish  with  parlsey 
and  sliced  red  beet — pickled. 

Roast  Ham. 

Soak  for  two  days  in  lukewarm  water,  changing  at  least  six 
times  a  day.  Take  it  out,  wash  very  well,  scrubbing  the  under 
part  hard,  and  trimming  away  the  black  and  rusty  edges.  Skin 
with  care,  lest  you  mangle  the  meat  and  spoil  the  symmetry  of 
the  shape.  Lay  in  a  dish  and  sponge  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  a 
mixture  of  wine,  vinegar,  sugar,  and  mustard — about  a  table- 
spoonful  of  white  sugar,  a  saltspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and 
a  glass  of  wine  to  half  a  gill  of  vinegar.  Do  this  at  intervals  of 
an  hour,  washing  every  part  of  the  ham  well,  all  day  and  until 
bed-time.  Renew  the  process  next  morning  until  six  hours 
before  you  need  the  meat.  Put  it  upon  the  spit  or  in  the 
dripping-pan,  with  a  cup  of  hot  water  to  prevent  burning.  Add 
to  the  mixture — or  what  is  left  of  it  in  the  dish — a  cupful  of 
boiling  water.  Keep  this  on  the  stove  and  baste  continually 
with  it  until  the  liquor  flows  freely  from  the  ham  as  it  cooks ; 
then  substitute  the  gravy.  When  done  (you  must  test  with  a 
fork),  cover  with  cracker-crumbs,  worked  to  a  paste  with 
milk,  butter,  and  a  beaten  egg,  and  return  to  the  oven  to 
brown. 

Skim  the  gravy ;  add  a  glass  of  good  wine,  a  tablespoonful 
of  catsup, — walnut,  if  you  have  it, — the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
a  little  nutmeg.    Boil  up,  and  send  to  table  in  a  boat. 

Troublesome  as  the  mode  of  cooking  it  may  seem,  roast  ham 
is  so  deUcious — especially  when  cold — as  fully  to  recompense 
the  housekeeper  who  may  be  tempted  to  try  it. 

Broiled  Ham. 
Cut  in  slices.    Wash  well,  and  soak  in  scalding  water  in  a 


92 


COMMON  SENSE. 


covered  vessel  for  half  an  hour.  Pour  off  the  water  and  add 
more  boiling  water.  Wipe  dry  when  the  ham  has  stood  half 
an  hour  in  the  second  water,  and  lay  in  cold  for  five 
minutes.    Wipe  again  and  broil  over  (or  under)  a  clear  fire. 

Cold  boiled  ham,  that  is  not  too  much  done,  is  better  for 
broiling  than  raw     Pepper  before  serving. 

Barbecued  Ham.  J 

If  your  ham  is  raw,  soak  as  above  directed ;  then  lay  the 
slices  flat  in  a  frying-pan ;  pepper  each  and  lay  upon  it  a 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard.  Pour  about  them 
some  vinegar,  allowing  half  a  teaspoonful  to  each  slice.  Fry 
quickly  and  turn  over.  When  done  to  a  fine  brown,  transfer 
to  a  hot  dish ;  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan  half  a  glass  of  wine 
and  a  very  small  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar.  Boil  up  and  pour 
over  the  meat. 

Underdone  ham  is  nice  barbecued. 

Fried  Ham. 

If  raw,  soak  as  for  broiling.  Cook  in  a  hot  frying-pan 
turnmg  often  until  done.  Serve  with  or  without  gravy,  as  you 
please.  In  some  parts  of  the  country  it  is  customary  to  take 
the  meat  first  from  the  pan,  and  add  to  the  gravy  a  little 
cream,  then  thicken  with  flour.  Boil  up  once  and  pour  over 
the  ham.  A  little  chopped  parsley  is  a  pleasant  addition  to 
this  gravy. 

Ham  Sandwiches. 

Cut  some  slices  of  bread  in  a  neat  shape,  and  trim  off  the 
crust,  unless  it  is  very  tender.  Butter  them  and  lay  between 
every  two  some  thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham.  Spread  the 
meat  with  a  little  mustard  if  you  like. 

Ground  ham  makes  delicious  sandwiches.  Cut  the  bread 
very  thin,  and  butter  well.  Put  in  a  good  layer  of  ham,  and 
press  the  two  sides  of  the  sandwiches  firmly,  but  gently, 
together.    Then  roll  lengthwise,  and  pile  in  a  plate  or  basket. 


PORK. 


93 


Ham  and  Chicken  Sandwiches. 

Mince  some  cold  roast  chicken,  and  a  like  quantity  of  cold 
boiled  ham.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  saucepan,  with  enough 
gravy — chicken  or  veal — to  make  a  soft  paste.  If  you  have 
no  gravy,  use  a  little  hot  water,  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream,  and 
a  fair  lump  of  butter.  Season  with  pepper  to  your  taste.  Stir 
while  it  heats  almost  to  boiling,  working  it  very  smooth.  In 
about  five  minutes  after  it  begins  to  smoke,  take  from  the  fire 
and  spread  in  a  dish  to  cool.  With  a  good-sized  cake-cutter, 
or  a  plain  thin-edged  tumbler,  cut  some  rounds  of  cold  bread, 
and  butter  one  side  of  each.  Sprinkle  the  buttered  sides  with 
grated  cheese,  and,  when  the  chicken  is  cold,  put  a  layer 
between  these. 

These  sandwiches  are  simple  and  very  good. 

Ham  and  Chicken  Pie. 

Cut  up  and  parboil  a  tender  young  chicken — a  year  old  one 
is  best.  Line  a  deep  dish  with  a  good  pie-crust.  Cut  some 
thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham,  and  spread  a  layer  next  the 
crust ;  then  arrange  pieces  of  fowl  upon  the  ham.  Cover 
this,  in  turn,  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  buttered  and 
peppered.  Proceed  in  this  order  until  your  materials  are 
used  up.  Then  pour  in  enough  veal  or  chicken  gravy  to  pre- 
vent dryness.  Unless  you  have  put  in  too  much  water  for  the 
size  of  the  fowl,  the  liquor  in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled  is 
best  for  this  purpose.  Bake  one  hour  and  a  quarter  for  a  large 
pie. 

Ham  and  Eggs. 

Cut  your  slices  of  ham  of  a  uniform  size  and  shape.  Fry 
quickly,  and  take  them  out  of  the  pan  as  soon  as  they  are 
done.  Have  the  eggs  ready,  and  drop  them,  one  at  a  time, 
in  the  hissing  fat.  Have  a  large  pan  for  this  purpose,  that 
they  may  not  touch  and  run  together.  In  three  minutes  they 
will  be  done.    The  meat  should  be  kept  hot,  and  when  the 


94 


COMMON  SENSE. 


eggs  are  ready,  lay  one  upon  each  slice  of  ham,  which  should 
have  been  cut  the  proper  size  for  this.    Do  not  use  the  gravy. 

Pork  and  Beans. 

Parboil  a  piece  of  the  middling  of  salt  pork,  and  score  the 
skin.  Allow  a  pound  to  a  quart  of  dried  beans,  which  must 
be  soaked  over  night  in  lukewarm  water.  Change  this  twice 
for  more  and  warmer  water,  and  in  the  morning  put  them  on  to 
boil  in  cold.  When  they  are  soft,  drain  off  the  liquor,  put  the 
beans  in  a  deep  dish,  and  half-bury  the  pork  in  the  middle, 
adding  a  very  little  warm  water.    Bake  a  nice  brown. 

This  is  a  favorite  dish  with  New  England  farmers  and  many 
others.  Although  old-fashioned,  it  still  makes  its  weekly  appear- 
ance upon  the  tables  of  hundreds  of  well-to-do  families. 

Pork  and  Peas  Pudding. 
Soak  the  pork,  which  should  not  be  a  fat  piece,  over  night 
in  cold  water;  and  in  another  pan  a  quart  of  dried  split  peas. 
In  the  morning  put  on  the  peas  to  boil  slowly  until  tender. 
Drain  and  rub  through  a  cullender;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  mix  with  them  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  two 
beaten  eggs.  Beat  all  well  together.  Have  ready  a  floured 
pudding-cloth,  and  put  the  pudding  into  it.  Tie  it  up,  leaving 
room  for  swelling ;  put  on  in  warm,  not  hot  water,  with  the 
pork,  and  boil  them  together  an  hour.  Lay  the  pork  in  the 
centre  of  the  dish,  turn  out  the  pudding,  slice  and  arrange 
about  the  meat. 


GAME, 

VENISON. 

Haunch  of  Venison. 

If  the  outside  be  hard,  wash  off  with  lukewarm  water;  then 
rub  all  over  with  fresh  butter  or  lard.    Cover  it  on  the  top 


VENISON. 


95 


and  sides  with  a  thick  paste  of  flour  and  water,  nearly  half  an 
inch  thick.  Lay  upon  this  a  large  sheet  of  thin  white  wrapping- 
paper  well  buttered,  and  above  this  thick  foolscap.  Keep  all 
in  place  by  greased  pack-thread ;  then  put  down  to  roast  with 
a  little  water  in  the  dripping-pan.  Let  the  fire  be  steady 
and  strong.  Pour  a  few  ladlefuls  of  butter  and  water  over  the 
meat  now  and  then,  to  prevent  the  paper  from  scorching.  If 
the  haunch  is  large,  it  will  take  at  least  five  hours  to  roast. 
About  half  an  hour  before  you  take  it  up,  remove  the  papers 
and  paste  and  test  with  a  skewer  to  see  if  it  is  done.  If  this 
passes  easily  to  the  bone  through  the  thickest  part,  set  it  down 
to  a  more  moderate  fire  and  baste  every  few  minutes  with 
claret  wine  and  melted  butter.  At  the  last,  baste  with  butter, 
dredge  with  flour  to  make  a  hght  froth,  and  dish.  It  should 
be  a  fine  brown  by  this  time.  Twist  a  frill  of  fringed  paper 
around  the  knuckle. 

For  gravy,  put  into  a  saucepan  a  pound  or  so  of  scraps  of 
raw  venison  left  from  trimming  the  haunch,  a  quart  of  water, 
a  pinch  of  cloves,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  half  a  nutmeg, 
cayenne  and  salt  to  taste.  Stew  slowly  to  one-half  the  original 
quantity.  Skim,  strain,  and  return  to  the  saucepan  when  you 
have  rinsed  it  with  hot  water.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
currant  jelly,  a  glass  of  claret,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
and  thicken  with  browned  flour.    Send  to  table  in  a  tureen. 

Send  around  currant  jelly  with  venison  always. 

Neck. 

This  is  roasted  precisely  as  is  the  haunch,  allowing  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  to  a  pound. 

Shoulder. 

This  is  also  a  roasting-piece,  but  may  be  cooked  without 
the  paste  and  paper.  Baste  often  with  butter  and  water, 
and  toward  the  last,  with  claret  and  butter.  Do  not  let  it 
get  dry  for  an  instant. 


96 


COMMON  SENSE. 


To  Stew  a  Shoulder. 

Extract  the  bones  through  the  under-side.  Make  a  stuffing 
of  several  sHces  of  fat  mutton,  minced  fine  and  seasoned 
smartly  with  cayenne,  salt,  allspice,  and  wine,  and  fill  the  holes 
from  which  the  bones  were  taken.  Bind  firmly  in  shape  with 
broad  tape.  Put  in  a  large  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  gravy 
made  from  the  refuse  bits  of  venison,  add  a  glass  of  Madeira 
or  port  wine,  and  a  little  black  pepper.  Cover  tightly  and 
stew  very  slowly  three  or  four  hours,  according  to  the  size. 
It  should  be  very  tender.  Remove  the  tapes  with  care ;  dish, 
and  when  you  have  strained  the  gravy,  pour  over  the  meat. 

This  is  a  most  savory  dish. 

Venison  Steaks.  X 

These  are  taken  from  the  neck  or  haunch.  Have  your 
gridiron  well  buttered,  and  fire  clear  and  hot.  Lay  the  steaks 
on  the  bars  and  broil  rapidly,  turning  often,  not  to  lose  a  drop 
of  juice.  They  will  take  three  or  four  minutes  longer  to  broil 
than  beef-steaks.  Have  ready  in  a  hot  chafing-dish  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg  for  each  pound  of  venison,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  currant-jelly  for  each 
pound,  and  a  glass  of  wine  for  every  four  pounds.  This  should 
be  liquid,  and  warmed  by  the  boiling  water  under  the  dish  by 
the  time  the  steaks  are  done  to  a  turn.  If  you  have  no 
chafing-dish,  heat  in  a  sauce-pan.  Lay  each  steak  in  the  mix- 
ture singly,  and  turn  over  twice.  Cover  closely  and  let  all 
heat  together,  with  fresh  hot  water  beneath — unless  your  lamp 
is  burning — for  five  minutes  before  serving.  If  you  serve  in  an 
ordinary  dish,  cover  and  set  in  the  oven  for  the  same  time. 

Venison  Cutlets.^J  * 

Trim  the  cutlets  nicely,  and  make  gravy  of  the  refuse  bits  in 
the  proportion  of  a  cup  of  cold  water  to  half  a  pound  of  veni- 
son.   Put  in  bones,  scraps  of  fat,  etc.,  and  set  on  in  a  sauce- 


VENISON. 


97 


pan  to  stew  while  you  make  ready  the  cutlets.  Lard  with  slips 
of  fat  salt  pork  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart,  and  projecting 
slightly  on  either  side.  When  the  gravy  has  stewed  an  hour, 
strain  and  let  it  cool.  Lay  the  cutlets  in  a  saucepan,  with  a 
few  pieces  of  young  onion  on  each.  Allow  one  onion  to  four 
or  five  pounds.  It  should  not  be  flavored  strongly  with  this. 
Scatter  also  a  little  minced  parsley  and  thyme  between  the 
layers  of  meat,  with  pepper,  and  a  very  little  grated  nutmeg, 
the  pork  lardoons  will  salt  sufficiently.  When  you  have  put 
in  all  your  meat,  pour  in  the  gravy,  which  should  be  warm — 
not  hot.  Stew  steadily  twenty  minutes,  take  up  the  cutlets 
and  lay  in  a  frying-pan  in  which  you  have  heated  just  enough 
butter  to  prevent  them  from  burning.  Fry  five  minutes  very 
quickly,  turning  the  cutlets  over  and  over  to  brown,  without 
drying  them.  Lay  in  order  in  a  chafing-dish,  and  have  ready 
the  gravy  to  pour  over  them  without  delay.  This  should  be 
done  by  strainmg  the  liquor  left  in  the  saucepan  and  returning 
to  the  fire,  with  the  addition  of  a  tablespoonful  of  currant- 
jelly,  a  teaspoonful  Worcestershire  or  other  piquant  sauce,  and 
half  a  glass  of  wine.  Thicken  with  browned  flour,  boil  up 
well  and  pour  over  the  cutlets.  Let  all  stand  together  in  a 
hot  dish  five  minutes  before  serving.  Venison  which  is  not 
fat  or  juicy  enough  for  roasting  makes  arelishable  dish  cooked 
after  this  receipt. 

Hashed  Venison.  | 

The  remains  of  cold  roast  venison — especially  a  stuffed 
shoulder — may  be  used  for  this  dish,  and  will  give  great  satis- 
faction to  cook  and  consumers.  Slice  the  meat  from  the 
bones.  Put  these  with  the  fat  and  other  scraps  in  a  saucepan, 
with  a  large  teacupful  of  cold  water,  a  small  onion— one  of  the 
button  kind,  minced,  parsley  and  thyme,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
three  or  four  whole  cloves.  Stew  for  an  hour.  Strain  and 
return  to  the  saucepan,  with  whatever  gravy  was  ieft  from  the 
roast,  a  tablespoonful  currant  jelly,  one  of  tomato  or  mush- 
Q 


98 


COMMON  SENSE. 


room  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  and  a  little 
browned  flour.  Boil  for  three  minutes ;  lay  in  the  venison, 
cut  into  slices  about  an  inch  long,  and  let  all  heat  over  the 
fire  for  eight  minutes,  but  do  not  allow  the  hash  to  boil.  Stir 
frequently,  and  when  it  is  smoking  hot,  turn  into  a  deep 
covered  dish. 

Venison  Pasty.  | 

This  is  a  name  dear  to  the  heart  of  the  Englishman  since 
the  days  when  Friar  Tuck  feasted  the  disguised  Coeur  de  Lion 
upon  it  in  the  depths  of  Sherwood  Forest,  until  the  present 
generation.  In  this  country  it  is  comparatively  little  known  ; 
but  I  recommend  it  to  those  who  have  never  yet  been  able  to 
make  venison  "  tolerably  eatable." 

Almost  any  part  of  the  dear  can  be  used  for  the  purpose, 
but  the  neck  and  shoulders  are  generally  preferred. 

Cut  the  raw  venison  from  the  bones,  and  set  aside  these, 
with  the  skin,  fat  and  refuse  bits,  for  gravy.  Put  them  into  a 
saucepan  with  shallot,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg  and  sweet  herbs, 
cover  well  with  cold  water,  and  set  on  to  boil.  Meanwhile, 
cut  the  better  and  fairer  pieces  of  meat  into  squares  an  inch 
long,  and  cook  in  another  saucepan  until  three-quarters  done. 
Line  a  deep  dish  with  good  puff-paste.  That  for  the  lid 
should  be  made  after  the  receipt  appended  to  this.  Put  in  the 
squares  of  venison,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter,  and 
put  in  half  a  cupful  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was 
stewed,  to  keep  it  from  burning  at  the  bottom.  Cover  with  a 
lid  of  the  prepared  pastry  an  inch  thick.  Cut  a  round  hole  in 
the  middle,  and  if  you  have  not  a  small  tin  cylinder  that  will 
fit  this,  make  one  of  buttered  paper ;  stiff  writing-paper  is  best. 
The  hole  should  be  large  enough  to  admit  your  thumb.  Bake 
steadily,  covering  the  top  with  a  sheet  of  clean  paper  so  soon 
as  it  is  firm,  to  prevent  it  from  browning  too  fast.  While  it  is 
cooking  prepare  the  gravy.  When  all  the  substance  has  been 
extracted  from  the  bones,  etc.,  strain  the  liquor  back  into  the 


VENISON. 


99 


saucepan ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  when  you  have  skimmed 
carefully,  add  a  glass  of  port  wine,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  some  browned  flour  to  thicken.  Boil 
up  once,  remove  the  plug  from  the  hole  in  the  pastry,  and 
pour  in  through  a  small  funnel,  or  a  paper  horn,  as  much  gravy 
as  the  pie  will  hold.  Do  this  very  quickly  ;  brush  the  crust  * 
over  with  beaten  egg,  and  put  back  in  the  oven  until  it  is  a 
delicate  brown,  or  rather,  a  golden  russet.  The  pie  should 
only  be  drawn  to  the  door  of  the  oven  for  these  operations, 
and  everything  should  be  in  readiness  before  it  is  taken  out, 
that  the  crust  may  be  light  and  flaky.  If  you  have  more  gravy 
than  you  need  for  the  dish,  serve  in  a  tureen. 

Crust  of  Pasty. 

1 14  lb.  of  flour. 
12  oz.  butter. 
3  eggs. 
Salt. 

Ice-water. 

Dry  and  sift  the  flour  and  cut  up  half  the  butter  in  it  with  a 
knife  or  chopper  until  the  whole  is  fine  and  yellow;  salt  and 
work  up  with  ice-water,  lastly  adding  the  eggs  beaten  very 
light.  Work  out  rapidly,  handling  as  little  as  possible,  roll 
out  three  times  very  thin,  basting  with  butter,  then  into  a  lid 
nearly  an  inch  thick,  reserving  a  thinner  one  for  ornaments. 
Having  covered  in  your  pie,  cut  frorr  the  second  sheet  with  a 
cake-cutter,  leaves,  flowers,  stars,  or  any  figures  you  like  to 
adorn  the  top  of  your  crust.  Bake  the  handsomest  one  upon 
a  tin  plate  by  itself  and  brush  it  over  with  egg  when  you  glaze 
the  pie.  After  the  pasty  is  baked,  cover  the  hole  in  the  centre 
with  this. 

If  these  directions  be  closely  followed  the  pasty  will  be 
delicious.  Bake  two  or  three  hours,  guiding  yourself  by  the 
size  of  the  pie.    It  is  good  hot  or  cold. 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Venison  Ham. 

These  are  eaten  raw,  and  will  not  keep  so  long  as  other 
smoked  meats. 

Mix  together  in  equal  proportions,  salt  and  brown  sugar, 
and  rub  them  hard  into  the  hams  with  your  hands.  Pack  them 
in  a  cask,  sprinkling  dry  salt  between  them,  and  let  them  lie 
eight  days,  rubbing  them  over  every  day  with  dry  salt  and 
sugar.  Next  mix  equal  parts  of  fine  salt,  molasses,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  saltpetre  to  every  two  hams.  Take  the  hams  out 
of  the  pickle,  go  over  them  with  a  brush  dipped  in  cider  vine- 
gar, then  in  the  new  mixture.  Empty  the  cask,  wash  it  out 
with  cold  water,  and  repack  the  hams,  dripping  from  the  sticky 
bath,  scattering  fine  salt  over  each.  Let  them  lie  eight  days 
longer  in  this.  Wash  off  the  pickle  first  with  tepid  water,  until 
the  salt  crystals  are  removed ;  then  sponge  with  vinegar, 
powder  them  with  bran  while  wet,  and  smoke  a  fortnight,  or,  if 
large,  three  weeks.  Wrap  in  brown  paper  that  has  no  unplea- 
sant odor,  stitch  a  muslin  cover  over  this,  and  whitewash, 
unless  you  mean  to  use  at  once.    Chip  or  shave  for  the  table. 


RABBITS  OR  HARES. 

Roast  Rabbit. 

Clean,  wash,  and  soak  in  water  slightly  salted  for  an  hour 
and  a  half,  changing  it  once  during  this  time.  It  is  best  to 
make  your  butcher  or  hired  man  skin  it  before  you  undertake 
to  handle  it.  Afterward,  the  task  is  easy  enough.  Parboil 
the  heart  and  liver,  chop  fine,  and  mix  with  a  slice  of  fat 
pork,  also  minced.  Make  a  force-meat  of  bread-crumbs,  well 
seasoned  and  quite  moist,  using  the  water  in  which  the  giblets 
were  boiled,  and  working  in  the  minced  meat.  Stuff  the  body 
with  this,  and  sew  it  up.  Rub  with  butter  and  roast,  basting 
with  butter  and  water  until  the  gravy  flows  freely,  then  with 


RABBITS  OE  HARES. 


101 


the  dripping.  It  should  be  done  in  an  hour.  Dredge  with 
flour  a  few  minutes  before  taking  it  up,  then  froth  with  butter.  ^ 
Lay  in  a  hot  dish,  add  to  the  gravy  a  Httle  lemon-juice,  a 
young  onion  minced,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  thicken 
with  browned  flour.  Give  it  a  boil  up,  and  serve  in  a  tureen 
or  boat, 

Garnish  the  rabbit  with  sliced  lemon,  and  put  a  dot  of 
currant  jelly  in  the  centre  of  each  slice.  Cut  off  the  head 
before  sending  to  table. 

Rabbits  Stewed  with  Onions. 
Clean  a  pair  of  nice  rabbits ;  soak  in  cold  salt  and  water 
for  an  hour,  to  draw  out  the  blood ;  put  on  in  a  large  sauce- 
pan with  cold  water  enough  to  cover  them,  salt  slightly,  and 
stew  until  tender.  Slice  in  another  pot  half  a  dozen  onions, 
and  boil  in  a  very  little  water  until  thoroughly  done.  Drain 
off  the  water,  and  stir  the  onions  into  a  gill  of  drawn  butter, 
pepper  to  taste,  and  when  it  simmers,  add  the  juice  of  a 
lemon.  Cut  off  the  heads  of  the  hares,  lay  in  a  hot  dish,  and 
pour  over  them  the  onion  sauce.  Let  the  dish  stand  in  a 
warm  place,  closely  covered,  five  minutes  before  sending  to 
table. 

Fricasseed  Rabbit  {White),  % 
Clean  two  young  rabbits,  cut  into  joints,  and  soak  in  salt 
and  water  an  hour.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  cold 
water,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion  finely  minced,  a  pinch 
of  mace,  one  of  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  half  a  pound  of  fat  salt 
pork,  cut  into  slips.  Cover  and  stew  until  tender.  Take  out 
the  rabbits  and  set  in  a  dish  where  they  will  keep  warm.  Add 
to  the  gravy  a  cup  of  cream  (or  milk),  two  well-beaten  eggs 
stirred  in  a  little  at  a  time,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
Boil  up  once— when  you  have  thickened  with  flour  wet  in 
cold  milk— and  take  the  saucepan  from  the  fire.  Squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  stirring  all  the  while,  and  pour  over  the 
rabbits.    Do  not  cook  the  head  or  neck. 


102 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Larded  Rabbit. 
Cut  off  the  head  and  divide  the  body  into  joints.  Lard 
with  slips  of  fat  pork ;  put  into  a  clean  hot  frying-pan  and 
fry  until  half  done.  Have  ready  some  strained  gravy  made 
of  veal  or  beef — the  first  is  better ;  put  the  pieces  of  rabbit 
into  a  saucepan,  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  minced  onion, 
and  some  pepper.  Stew,  closely  covered,  half  an  hour,  or 
until  tender ;  take  out  the  rabbits  and  lay  in  a  hot  covered 
dish.  Strain  the  gravy,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  thicken  with  flour.  Boil  up  and  pour 
over  the  meat. 

Fried  Rabbit. 
They  must  be  very  tender  for  this  purpose.    Cut  into  joints  ; 
soak  for  an  hour  in  salt  and  water ;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in 
powdered  cracker,  and  fry  brown  in  nice  sweet  lard  or  drip- 
ping.   Serve  with  onion  sauce.    Garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

Rabbit  Pie. 

Cut  a  pair  of  rabbits  into  eight  pieces  each,  soak  in  salted 
water  half  an  hour,  and  stew  until  half  done  in  enough  water 
to  cover  them.  Cut  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  pork  into 
slips,  and  boil  four  eggs  hard.  Lay  some  bits  of  pork  in  the 
bottom  of  a  deep  dish  and  upon  these  a  layer  of  the  rabbit. 
Upon  this  spread  slices  of  boiled  egg,  peppered  and  buttered. 
Sprinkle,  moreover,  with  a  little  powdered  mace,  and  squeeze 
a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice  upon  each  piece  of  meat.  Pro- 
ceed in  this  order  until  the  dish  is  full,  the  top  layer  being 
pork.  Pour  in  the  water  in  which  the  rabbit  was  boiled,  when 
you  have  salted  it  and  added  some  lumps  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour.  Cover  with  puff  paste,  cut  a  slit  in  the  middle,  and 
bake  one  hour,  laying  paper  over  the  top  should  it  brown  too 
fast. 


SQUIRRELS. 

The  large  gray  squirrel  is  seldom  eaten  at  the  North,  but  in 


SQUIRRELS.  103 


great  request  in  Virginia  and  other  Southern  States.  It  is 
generally  barbecued,  precisely  as  are  rabbits  ;  broiled,  fricas- 
seed, or— most  popular  of  all— made  into  a  Brunswick  stew. 
This  is  named  from  Brunswick  County,  Virginia,  and  is  a 
famous  dish— or  was— at  the  political  and  social  pic-nics 
known  as  barbecues.  I  am  happy  to  be  able  to  give  a  receipt 
for  this  stew  that  is  genuine  and  explicit,  and  for  which  I  am 
indebted  to  a  Virginia  housekeeper. 

Ragout  of  Squirrels. 
Skin,  clean,  and  quarter  a  pair  of  fine  young  squirrels,  and 
soak  in  salt  and  water  to  draw  out  the  blood.  Slice  a  toler- 
ably large  onion  and  fry  brown  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Stir  into  the  frying-pan  five  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water, 
and  thicken  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  browned  flour.  Put  the 
squirrels  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon 
cut  into  slips ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  add  the 
onions  and  their  gravy,  and  half  a  cupful  of  tepid  water.  Cover 
and  stew  for  forty  minutes,  or  until  tender ;  pour  in  a  glass  of 
wine  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  shake  around  well,  and 
turn  into  a  deep  covered  dish. 

Broiled  Squirrels. 
Clean  and  soak  to  draw  out  the  blood.  Wipe  dry  and  broil 
over  a  hot,  clear  fire,  turning  often.  When  done,  lay  in  a  hot 
dish  and  anoint  with  melted  butter,  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Use  at  least  a  tablespoonful  for  each  squirrel,  and  let  it 
lie  between  two  hot  dishes  five  minutes  before  sending  to 
table. 


PHEASANTS,  PARTRIDGES,  QUAILS,  GROUSE,  ETC. 

Roast. 

Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  as  you  do  chickens ;  roast  at  a  hot 
fire,  and  baste  with  butter  and  water  until  brown ;  sprinkle 


104 


COMMON  SENSE. 


With  salt,  dredge  lightly  at  the  last  with  flour  to  froth  the  birds 
and  serve  hot.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  browned  flour,  boil  up' 
and  serve  in  a  boat.  Wash  the  inside  of  all  game— prairie 
fowls  in  particular— with  soda  and  water,  rinsing  out  carefully 
afterward  with  fair  water. 

Broiled. 

Clean,  wash,  and  split  down  the  back.  Lay  in  cold  water 
half  an  hour.  Wipe  carefully,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  broil  on  a  gridiron  over  a  bright  fire.  When  done,  lay  in 
a  hot  dish,  butter  on  both  sides  well,  and  serve  at  once. 

Broiled  quails  are  delicious  and  nourishing  fare  for  invalids. 

Grouse  roasted  with  Bacon.  | 
Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  as  usual.  Cover  the  entire  bird  with 
thin  slices  of  corned  ham  or  pork,  binding  all  with  buttered 
pack-thread.  Roast  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  basting  with 
butter  and  water  three  times,  then  with  the  dripping.  When 
quite  done,  dish  with  the  ham  laid  about  the  body  of  the  bird. 
Skim  the  gravy,  thicken  with  browned  flour,  season  with  pepper 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.    Boil  up  once. 

Quails  roasted  with  Ham.  J 
Proceed  as  with  the  grouse,  but  cover  the  ham  or  pork  with 
a  sheet  of  white  paper,  having  secured  the  sHces  of  meat  with 
pack-thread.  Stitch  the  papers  on,  and  keep  them  well  basted 
with  butter  and  water,  that  they  may  not  burn.  Roast  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  if  the  fire  is  good.  Remove  the  papers 
and  meat  before  sending  to  table,  and  brown  quickly.  This 
is  the  nicest  way  of  cooking  quails. 

Salmi  of  Game. 
Cut  cold  roast  partridges,  grouse,  or  quails  into  joints  and 
lay  aside  while  you  prepare  the  gravy.    This  is  made  of  the 
bones,  dressing,  skin,  and  general  odds  and  ends,  after  you 
have  selected  the  nicest  pieces  of  the  birds.    Put  these— the 


PHEASANTS,  PARTRIDGES,  &C.  105 


scraps — into  a  saucepan,  with  one  small  onion  minced,  and  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs ;  pour  in  a  pint  of  water,  and  whatever 
gravy  you  may  have,  and  stew,  closely  covered,  for  nearly  an 
hour.  A  few  bits  of  pork  should  be  added  if  you  have  no 
gravy.  Skim  and  strain,  return  to  the  fire,  and  add  a  little 
brown  sherry  and  lemon-juice,  with  a  pmch  of  nutmeg  ;  thicken 
with  brown  flour,  if  the  stuffing  has  not  thickened  it  sufficiently, 
boil  up,  and  pour  over  the  reserved  meat,  which  should  be  put 
into  another  saucepan.  Warm  until  all  is  smoking-hot,  but  do 
not  let  it  boil.  Arrange  the  pieces  of  bird  in  a  symmetrical 
heap  upon  a  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  them. 

Game  Pie — {Very fine.) 
This  may  be  made  of  any  of  the  birds  named  in  the  fore- 
going receipts.  Grouse  and  quails  together  make  a  delightful 
Christmas  pie.  Clean  and  wash  the  birds  ;  cut  the  quails  in 
half,  the  grouse  into  four  pieces.  Trim  off  bits  of  the  inferior 
portions,  necks,  lower  ribs,  etc.,  and  put  them  with  the  giblets 
into  a  saucepan,  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  if  your  pie 
requires  six  birds.  While  this  is  stewing  make  a  good  puff- 
paste  and  hne  a  large  pudding-dish,  reserving  enough  for  a 
lid  at  least  half  an  inch  thick.  When  the  livers  are  tender, 
take  them  out,  leaving  the  gravy  to  stew  in  the  covered  sauce- 
pan. Lard  the  breasts  of  the  birds  with  tiny  strips  of  salt  pork, 
and  mince  a  couple  of  slices  of  the  same  with  the  livers,  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  sweet  marjoram,  and  thyme,  also  chopped 
fine,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  pepper,  and  a  very  small  shallot. 
Make  a  force-meat  of  this,  with  bread-crumbs  moistened  with 
warm  milk.  Put  some  thin  strips  of  cold  corned  (not  smoked) 
ham  in  the  bottom  of  the  pie,  next  to  the  crust ;  lay  upon 
these  pieces  of  the  bird,  peppered  and  buttered,  then  a  layer 
of  the  force-meat,  and  so  on,  until  you  are  ready  for  the  gravy. 
Strain  this,  return  to  the  fire,  and  season  with  pepper  and  a 
glass  of  wine.  Heat  to  a  boil,  pour  into  the  pie,  and  cover 
with  the  upper  crust,  cutting  a  slit  in  the  middle.  Ornament 


106 


COMMON  SENSE. 


with  pastry  leaves,  arranged  in  a  wreath  about  the  edge,  and 
in  the  middle  a  pastry  bird,  with  curled  strips  of  pastry  about 
it.  These  last  should  be  baked  separately  and  laid  on  when 
the  pie  is  done,  to  cover  the  hole  in  the  middle. 

Bake  three  hours  if  your  pie  is  large,  covering  with  paper  if 
it  threatens  to  brown  too  fast. 

Quail  Pie. 

Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  the  birds.  Loosen  the  joints  with  a 
penknife,  but  do  not  separate  them.  Parboil  them  for  ten 
minutes,  while  you  prepare  a  puff-paste.  Line  a  deep  dish 
with  this  ;  put  in  the  bottom  some  shreds  of  salt  pork  or  ham  ; 
next,  a  layer  of  hard-boiled  egg,  buttered  and  peppered ;  then 
the  birds,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  minced  parsley.  Squeeze 
some  lemon-juice  upon  them,  and  lay  upon  the  breasts  pieces 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Cover  with  slices  of  egg,  then  with 
shred  ham  ;  pour  in  some  of  the  gravy  in  which  the  quails  were 
parboiled,  and  put  on  the  lid,  leaving  a  hole  in  the  middle. 
Bake  over  an  hour. 

Wild  Pigeons  {Stewed)  % 

Clean  and  wash  very  carefully,  then  lay  in  salt  and  water  for 
an  hour.  Rinse  the  inside  with  soda  and  water,  shaking  it 
well  about  in  the  cavity ;  wash  out  with  fair  water  and  stuff 
with  a  force-meat  made  of  bread-crumbs  and  chopped  salt 
pork,  seasoned  with  pepper.  Sew  up  the  birds,  and  put  on  to 
stew  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them,  and  allow  to  each  a 
fair  slice  of  fat  bacon  cut  into  narrow  strips.  Season  with 
pepper  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg.  Boil  slowly  in  a  covered 
saucepan  until  tender;  take  from  the  gravy  and  lay  in  a 
covered  dish  to  keep  warm.  Strain  the  gravy,  add  the  juice  of 
a  lemon  and  a  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly,  thickening  with 
browned  flour.    Boil  up  and  pour  over  the  pigeons. 

Wild  Pigeon  Pie.  % 
This  is  made  precisely  as  in  quail  pie,  except  that  the 


WILD  DUCKS.  107 

pigeons  are  cut  into  four  pieces  each,  and  not  stuffed.  Par- 
boil and  lay  in  the  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  the  bacon  and 
boiled  eggs.  Make  the  gravy  richer  than  for  the  quails,  by 
the  addition  of  a  good  lump  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour,  stirred 
in  and  boiled  up  to  thicken  before  you  put  it  on  the  fire. 
Wild  pigeons  are  usually  tougher  and  leaner  than  tame. 


WILD  DUCKS. 

Nearly  all  wild  ducks  are  liable  to  have  a  fishy  flavor,  and 
when  handled  by  inexperienced  cooks,  are  sometimes  uneat- 
able from  this  cause.  Before  roasting  them,  guard  against  this 
by  parboiHng  them  with  a  small  carrot,  peeled,  put  within  each. 
This  will  absorb  the  unpleasant  taste.  An  onion  will  have  the 
same  effect ;  but,  unless  you  mean  to  use  onion  in  the  stuffing, 
the  carrot  is  preferable.  In  my  own  kitchen  I  usually  put  in 
the  onion,  considering  a  suspicion  of  garlic  a  desideratum  in 
roast  duck,  whether  wild  or  tame. 

Roast  Duck  {Wild.) 

Parboil  as  above  directed  ;  throw  away  the  carrot  or  onion, 
lay  in  fresh  water  half  an  hour:  stuff  with  bread-crumbs 
seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  sage,  and  onion,  and  roast  until 
brown  and  tender,  basting  for  half  the  time  with  butter  and 
water,  then  with  the  drippings.  Add  to  the  gravy,  when  you 
have  taken  up  the  ducks,  a  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly,  and 
a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Thicken  with  browned  flour  and  serve 
in  a  tureen. 

Wild  Ducks  {Stewed).  % 
Parboil  ten  minutes,  when  you  have  drawn  them,  and  put 
in  a  raw  carrot  or  onion.  Lay  in  very  cold  water  half  an  hour. 
Cut  into  joints,  pepper,  salt,  and  flour  them.  Have  ready 
some  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  fry  them  a  light  brown.  Put 
them  in  a  saucepan  and  cover  with  gravy  made  of  the  giblets, 


COMMON  SENSE. 

necks  and  some  bits  of  lean  veal.  Add  a  minced  shallot,  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  salt,  and  pepper.  Cover  closely  and 
stew  half  an  hour,  or  until  tender.  Take  out  the  duck,  strain 
tne  gravy  when  you  have  skimmed  it;  put  in  a  half-cup  of 
cream  or  rich  milk  in  which  an  egg  has  been  beaten,  thicken 
with  browned  flour,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  wine  and  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  beaten  in  gradually  not  to  curdle  the  cream- 
boil  up  and  pour  over  the  ducks.  This  is  about  the  best  way 
ot  cookmg  wild  ducks. 


WILD  TURKEY. 
This  stately  stalker  of  Southern  forests  and  Western  prairies 
IS  eagerly  sought  after  by  the  lovers  of  good  eating  in  those 
regions.    The  dark  meat  and  game  flavor  proclaim  his  birtli- 
right  of  lordly  freedom  as  truly  after  he  is  slain  and  cooked 
as  did  his  hthe  grace  of  figure,  lofty  carriage,  and  bright  eye 
vvhile  he  trod  his  native  wilds.    I  have  heard  sportsmen  de- 
clare that  when  they  have  inveigled  him  up  to  a  blind  by 
imitating  the  call  of  his  harem  or  younglings,  they  have  stood 
in  covert,  gun  at  shoulder  and  finger  on  the  trigger,  spell- 
bound by  pitying  admiration  of  his  beauty.    But  I  have  never 
seen  that  sensibility  curbed  appetite  while  they  told  the  story 
at  the  table  adorned  by  the  royal  bird;  have  noted,  indeed 
that  their  mouths  watered  rather  than  their  eyes,  as  he 
crumbled,  like  a  dissolving  view,  under  the  blade  of  the 
carver. 

Draw  and  wash  the  inside  very  carefully,  as  with  all  game 
Domestic  fowls  are,  or  should  be,  kept  up  without  eating  for 
at  least  twelve  hours  before  they  are  killed;  but  we  must  shoot 
wild  when  we  can  get  the  chance,  and  of  course  it  often  hap- 
pens that  their  crops  are  distended  by  a  recent  hearty  meal  of 
rank  or  green  food.  Wipe  the  cavity  with  a  dry  soft  cloth 
before  you  stufi-.  Have  a  rich  force-meat,  bread-crumbs,  some 
bits  of  fat  pork,  chopped  fine,  pepper,  and  salt.    Moisten  with 


SMALL  BIRDS. 


109 


milk,  and  beat  in  an  egg  and  a  couple  of  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter.  Baste  with  butter  and  water  for  the  first  hour, 
then  three  or  four  times  with  the  gravy ;  lastly,  five  or  six 
times  with  melted  butter.  A  generous  and  able  housekeeper 
told  me  once  that  she  always  allowed  a  pound  of  butter  for 
basting  a  large  wild  turkey.  This  was  an  extravagant  quan- 
tity, but  the  meat  is  drier  than  that  of  the  domestic  fowl,  and 
not  nearly  so  fat.  Dredge  with  flour  at  the  last,  froth  with 
butter,  and  when  he  is  of  a  tempting  brown,  serve.  Skim  the 
gravy,  add  a  little  hot  water,  pepper,  thicken  with  the  giblets 
chopped  fine  and  browned  flour,  boil  up,  and  pour  into  a 
tureen.  At  the  South  the  giblets  are  not  put  in  the  gravy, 
but  laid  whole,  one  under  each  wing,  when  the  turkey  is 
dished.  Garnish  with  smalled  fried  sausages,  not  larger  than 
a  dollar,  crisped  parsley  between  them. 

Send  around  currant  jelly  and  cranberry  sauce  with  it. 


SMALL  BIRDS. 

Roast  Snipe  or  Plovers. 

Clean  and  truss,  but  do  not  stufl".  Lay  in  rows  in  the 
dripping-pan,  or  tie  upon  a  spit,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  baste 
well  with  butter,  then  with  butter  and  water.  When  they 
begin  to  brown,  which  will  be  in  about  ten  minutes,  cut  as 
many  rounds  of  bread  (without  crust)  as  there  are  birds. 
Toast  quickly,  butter,  and  lay  in  the  dripping-pan,  a  bird  upon 
each.  When  the  birds  are  done,  serve  upon  the  toast,  with 
the  gravy  poured  over  it.  The  toast  should  lie  under  them 
while  cooking  at  least  five  minutes,  during  which  time  the 
birds  should  be  basted  with  melted  butter  seasoned  with 
pepper. 

The  largest  snipe  will  not  require  above  twenty  minutes  to 
roast, 


110 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Woodcock. 

This  is  the  most  delicious  of  small  birds,  and  may  be  either 
roasted  or  broiled. 

Roast. 

The  English  do  not  draw  woodcock,  regarding  the  trail  as 
a  bonne  boitche,  and  I  have  known  American  housekeepers  who 
copied  them  in  this  respect.  In  this  case,  roast  precisely  as 
you  would  snipe  or  plover,  only  putting  the  toast  under  the 
birds  so  soon  as  they  begin  to  cook,  to  catch  the  trail. 

To  my  taste,  a  better,  and  certainly  to  common  sense  people 
a  less  objectionable  plan,  is  to  fill  the  birds  with  a  rich  force- 
meat of  bread-crumbs,  peppered  and  salted,  moistened  with 
cream  until  it  is  very  soft,  and  shortened  with  melted  butter. 
Sew  up  and  roast,  basting  with  butter  and  water,  from  twenty 
minutes  to  half  an  hour.  When  half  done,  put  circular  slices 
of  buttered  toast  beneath,  and  serve  upon  these  when  you 
take  them  up. 

Broiled. 

Split  down  the  back,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  Butter, 
pepper,  and  salt  when  done,  and  let  them  lie  between  two 
hot  dishes  for  five  minutes  before  sending  to  table.  Small 
snipe  are  nice  broiled  in  this  way ;  also  robins  and  doves. 

Salmi  of  Woodcock  or  Snipe. 
Clean  and  half-roast  the  birds ;  cut  in  quarters,  and  put  in 
a  saucepan  with  gravy  made  of  the  giblets,  necks,  and  some 
bits  of  fat  pork,  stewed  in  a  little  water.  Add  a  minced 
button  onion,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  stew  fifteen 
minutes  or  until  tender,  closely  covered.  Take  out  the  birds, 
and  pile  neatly  upon  buttered  toast  in  a  chafing-dish.  Strain 
the  gravy  and  return  to  the  fire,  adding  some  small  pieces  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  little  wine. 
Boil  up,  and  pour  over  the  salmi. 


V 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS  AND  FISH. 

SAUCES. 


Ill 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS  AND  FISH. 

These  are  no  longer  the  appendages  of  the  rich  man's  bill  ot 
fare  only.  A  general  knowledge  of  made  sauces,  as  well  as 
the  more  expensive  ones  imported  from  abroad  and  sold  here 
at  high  prices,  is  a  part  of  every  intelligent  housekeeper's  culi- 
nary education.  Few  are  so  ignorant  as  to  serve  a  fish  sauce 
with  game,  or  vice  versa.  From  the  immense  number  of 
receipts  which  I  have  collected  and  examined,  I  have  selected 
comparatively  few  but  such  as  I  consider  "  representative " 
articles.  The  ingenious  housewife  is  at  liberty,  as  I  have  said 
before,  elsewhere,  to  modify  and  improve  upon  them. 

First,  par  excellence,  as  the  most  important,  and  because  it  is 
the  groundwork  of  many  others,  I  place 

Melted  or  Drawn  Butter. 

2  teaspoonfuls  flour. 

ounce  butter. 
I  teacupful  water  or  milk. 
A  little  salt. 

Put  the  flour  and  salt  in  a  bowl,  and  add  a  little  at  a  time 
of  the  water  or  milk,  working  it  very  smooth  as  you  go  on. 
Put  into  a  tin  cup  or  saucepan,  and  set  in  a  vessel  of  boiling 
water.  As  it  warms,  stir,  and  when  it  has  boiled  a  minute  or 
more,  add  the  butter  by  degrees,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it 
is  entirely  melted  and  incorporated  with  the  flour  and  water. 
Boil  pne  minute. 

Mix  with  milk  when  you  wish  to  use  for  puddings,  with 
water  for  meats  and  fish. 

Egg  Sauce.  % 

3  hard-boiled  eggs. 

A  good  teacupful  drawn  butter, 
A  little  salt. 


112 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Chop  the  yolks  only  of  the  eggs  very  fine,  and  beat  into  the 
hot  drawn  butter,  salting  to  taste. 

This  is  used  for  boiled  fowls  and  boiled  fish.  For  the 
former,  you  can  add  some  minced  parsley;  for  the  latter 
chopped  pickles,  capers,  or  nasturtium  seed.  For  boiled  beef, 
a  small  shallot  minced  fine. 

Sauce  for  Boiled  or  Baked  Fish. 
4  ounces  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  flour. 

2  anchovies. 

I  teaspoonful  chopped  capers,  or  nasturtium   seed,  or 

green  pickle. 
I  shallot. 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

I  tablespoonful  vinegar. 

I  teacupful  hot  water. 
Put  the  water  into  the  inner  saucepan,  chop  the  anchovies 
and  shallot,  and  put  in  with  the  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  two 
minutes,  and  strain  back  into  the  saucepan  when  you  have 
rinsed  with  hot  water.  Now  add  the  flour  wet  smooth  with 
cold  water,  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  put  in  the  butter  by 
degrees,  and,  when  it  is  thoroughly  melted  and  mixed,  the 
vinegar ;  lastly,  the  capers  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

White  Sauce  for  Fish.  J 
Make  drawn  butter  with  three  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  2  ounceg 
butter,  I  teacupful  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled 
Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  in  which  a  shallot  and  a  head 
of  celery  or  a  pinch  of  celery  seed  has  been  boiled,  then 
strained  out.  Boil  one  minute,  and  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley. 

Oyster  Sauce.  J 
I  pint  oysters. 
Half  a  lemon, 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS  AND  FISH. 


113 


2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

I  teaspoonful  flour. 

I  teacupful  milk  or  cream. 

Cayenne  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 
Stew  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  five  minutes,  and  add 
the  milk.  When  this  boils,  strain  the  liquor  and  return  to  the 
saucepan.  Thicken  with  the  flour  when  you  have  wet  it  with 
cold  water ;  stir  well  in ;  put  in  the  butter,  next  the  cayenne 
(if  you  like  it),  boil  one  minute  ;  squeeze  in  the  lemon-juice, 
shake  it  around  well,  and  pour  out. 

Anchovy  Sauce. 
6  anchovies. 

A  teacupfiil  drawn  butter. 
A  wine-glass  pale  sherry. 
Soak  the  anchovies  in  cold  water  two  hours ;  pull  them  to 
pieces,  and  simmer  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them  for 
half  an  hour.    Strain  the  liquor  into  drawn  butter,  made  as 
follows :  3  ounces  butter,  half-pint  water  (hot),  a  beaten  egg, 
I  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour,  boil  a  minute,  add  the  wine  ; 
heat  gradually  to  a  boil,  and  stew  five  minutes  longer. 
Serve  with  boiled  fish. 

Sauce  for  Lobsters. 

5  tablespoonfuls  fresh  butter. 
Teacupful  vinegar. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  white 
sugar. 

I  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 
Minced  parsley. 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  adding  gradually  the  vinegar, 
salt,  and  pepper.    Boil  a  bunch  of  parsley  five  minutes,  chop 
small ;  beat  into  the  butter ;  lastly  the  sugar  and  mustard. 
The  butter  must  be  light  as  whipped  egg. 
H 


114 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Bread  Sauce. 
I  pint  milk. 

I  cup  bread-crumbs  (very  fine). 

I  onion,  sliced. 

A  pinch  of  mace. 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
Simmer  the  sliced  onion  in  the  milk  until  tender ;  strain  the 
milk  and  pour  over  the  bread-crumbs,  which  should  be  put 
into  a  saucepan.  Cover  and  soak  half  an  hour;  beat  smooth 
with  an  egg-whip,  add  the  seasoning  and  butter ;  stir  in  well, 
boil  up  once,  and  serve  in  a  tureen.  If  it  is  too  thick,  add 
boiling  water  and  more  butter. 

This  sauce  is  for  roast  poultry.  Some  people  add  some  of  the 
gravy  from  the  dripping-pan,  f^rst  straining  it  and  beating  it 
well  in  with  the  sauce. 

White  Celery  Sauce. 
2  large  heads  of  celery. 

I  teacupful  of  broth  in  which  the  fowl  is  boiled. 
I       "       cream  or  milk. 
Salt  and  nutmeg. 

Heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  and  same  of  butter. 
Boil  the  celery  tender  in  salted  water ;  drain  and  cut  into 

bits  half  an  inch  long.    Thicken  the  gravy  from  the  fowl  a 

teacupful— with  the  flour;  add  the  butter,  salt,  and  nutmeg, 
then  the  milk.  Stir  and  beat  until  it  is  smooth  ;  put  in  the 
celery;  heat  almost  to  boiling,  stirring  all  the  while;  serve 
in  a  tureen,  or,  if  you  prefer,  pour  it  over  the  boiled  meat  or 
fowls. 

Onion  Sauce. 
4  white  onions. 
I  teacupful  hot  milk. 
3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS  AND  FISH.  115 

Peel  the  onions,  boil  tender,  press  the  water  from  them, 
and  mince  fine.  Have  ready  the  hot  milk  in  a  saucepan ; 
stir  in  the  onions,  then  the  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Boil  up 
once. 

If  you  want  to  have  it  particularly  good,  make  nice  melted 
or  drawn  butter,  as  follows  :  3  ounces  butter,  half-pint  water 
(hot),  a  beaten  egg,  i  heaping  teaspoonful  flour;  beat  the 
mashed  onion  into  it ;  add  a  teacupful  of  cream  or  new  milk  ; 
season,  boil  up,  and  serve. 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce,  | 
I  teacupful  drawn  butter. 
I  teaspoonful  minced  parsley. 
I  lemon. 

Cayenne  and  salt  to  taste. 

Draw  the  butter,  as  follows :  i  ^  teaspoonful  of  flour,  2 
ounces  butter,  i  teacupful  (small)  hot  water ;  boil  the  parsley 
three  minutes ;  take  it  out  and  lay  in  cold  water  five  minutes, 
to  cool ;  chop  and  stir  into  the  butter ;  squeeze  in  the  lemon- 
juice,  the  pepper  and  salt ;  beat  hard  with  an  egg-whip,  return 
to  the  fire,  and  boil  up  once. 

This  is  a  "  stock  "  sauce,  being  suitable  for  so  many  dishes, 
roast  or  boiled. 

Mint  Sauce  for  Roast  Lamb. 
2  tablespoonfuls  green  mint,  chopped  fine. 
I  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar. 
Half  a  teacupful  cider  vinegar. 
Chop  the  mint,  put  the  sugar  and  vinegar  in  a  sauce-boat, 
and  stir  in  the  mint.     Let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  fifteen 
minutes  before  sending  to  to  table. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 
I  teacupful  young  mushrooms. 
4  tablespoonfuls  butter. 


110 


COMMON  SENSE. 


I  teacupful  cream  or  milk. 

I  teaspoonful  flour. 

Nutmeg,  mace,  and  salt  to  taste. 
Stew  the  mushrooms  in  barely  enough  water  to  cover  them 
until  tender.  Drain,  but  do  not  press  them,  and  add  the 
cream,  butter,  and  seasoning.  Stew  over  a  bright  fire,  stirring 
all  the  while  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Add  the  flour  wet 
in  cold  milk,  boil  up  and  serve  in  a  boat,  or  pour  over  boiled 
chickens,  rabbits,  etc. 

Cauliflower  Sauce. 
I  small  cauliflower. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter,  cut  in  bits,  and  rolled  in  flour. 
I  onion. 

I  small  head  of  celery. 

Mace,  pepper,  and  salt. 

I  teacupful  water. 

I  teacupful  milk  or  cream. 
Boil  the  cauliflower  in  two  waters,  changing  when  about  half 
done,  and  throwing  away  the  first,  reserve  a  teacupful  of  the 
last.  Take  out  the  cauliflower,  drain  and  mince.  Cook  in 
another  saucepan  the  onion  and  celery,  mincing  them  when 
tender.  Heat  the  reserved  cupful  of  water  again  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  the  milk ;  when  warm  put  in  the  cauliflower  and 
onion,  the  butter  and  seasoning — coating  the  butter  thickly 
with  flour ;  boil  until  it  thickens. 

This  is  a  delicious  sauce  for  boiled  corned  beef  and  mutton. 

Asparagus  Sauce. 
A  dozen  heads  of  asparagus. 
2  teacupfuls  drawn  butter. 
2  eggs. 

The  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Salt  and  white  pepper. 
Boil  the  tender  heads  in  a  very  little  salted  water.  Drain 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS  AND  FISH. 


117 


and  chop  them.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  drawn  butter,  with  two 
raw  eggs  beaten  into  it ;  add  the  asparagus,  and  season, 
squeezing  in  the  lemon-juice  last.  The  butter  must  be  hot, 
but  do  not  cook  after  putting  in  the  asparagus  heads.  This 
accompanies  boiled  fowls,  stewed  fillet  of  veal,  or  boiled 
mutton. 

Apple  Sauce. 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  some  ripe  tart  apples,  stew  in  water 
enough  to  cover  them  until  they  break  to  pieces.  Beat  up  to 
a  smooth  pulp,  stir  in  a  good  lump  of  butter,  and  sugar  to  taste. 

Apple  sauce  is  the  invariable  accompaniment  of  roast  pork 
— or  fresh  pork  cooked  in  any  way.  If  you  wish,  you  can  add 
a  little  nutmeg. 

Peach  Sauce. 

Soak  a  quart  of  dried  peaches  in  water  four  hours.  Wash 
them,  rubbing  them  against  one  another  by  stirring  around 
with  a  wooden  spoon.  Drain,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with 
just  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Stew  until  they  break  to 
pieces.  Rub  to  a  soft  smooth  pulp,  sweeten  to  taste  with  white 
sugar.    Send  to  table  cold,  with  roast  game  or  other  meats. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 
Wash  and  pick  a  quart  of  ripe  cranberries,  and  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  teacupful  water.  Stew  slowly,  stirring  often 
until  they  are  thick  as  marmalade.  They  require  at  least  an 
hour  and  a  half  to  cook.  When  you  take  them  from  the  fire, 
sweeten  abundantly  with  white  sugar.  If  sweetened  while 
cooking,  the  color  will  be  bad.  Put  them  into  a  mould  and 
set  aside  to  get  cold. 

To  Brown  Flour. 

Spread  upon  a  tin  plate,  set  upon  the  stove,  or  in  a  very  hot 
oven,  and  stir  continually  after  it  begins  to  color,  until  it  is 
brown  all  through. 

Keep  it  always  on  hand.  Make  it  at  odd  minutes,  and  put 
away  in  a  glass  jar,  covered  closely.  Shake  up  every  few  days 
to  keep  it  light  and  prevent  lumping. 


118 


COMMON  SENSE. 


To  Brown  Butter. 
Put  a  Inrnp  of  butter  into  a  hot  frying-pan,  and  toss  it  around 
over  a  clear  fire  until  it  browns.  Dredge  browned  flour  over 
it,  and  stir  to  a  smooth  batter  until  it  begins  to  boil.  Use  it 
for  coloring  gravies,  such  as  brown  fricassees,  etc. ;  or  make 
into  sauce  for  baked  fish  and  fish-steaks,  by  beating,  in  celery 
or  onion  vinegar,  a  very  little  brown  sugar  and  some  cayenne. 


CATSUPS  AND  FLAVORED  VINEGARS. 

Made  Mustard.  J 
4  tablespoonfuls  best  English  mustard. 
2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 
2         "         white  sugar. 

1  "         white  pepper. 

2  "         salad  oil. 

Vinegar  to  mix  to  a  smooth  paste — celery  or  Tarragon  vine- 
gar if  you  have  it. 
I  small  garlic,  minced  very  small. 

Put  the  mustard  in  a  bowl  and  wet  with  the  oil,  rubbing  it 
with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon  until  it  is  absorbed.  Wet  with 
vinegar  to  a  stiff  paste ;  add  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  garlic,  and 
work  all  together  thoroughly,  wetting  little  by  little  with  the 
vinegar  until  you  can  beat  it  as  you  do  cake-batter.  Beat  five 
minutes  very  hard  ;  put  into  wide-mouthed  bottles — empty 
French  mustard  bottles,  if  you  have  them — pour  a  little  oil  on 
top,  cork  tightly,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  It  will  be 
mellow  enough  for  use  in  a  couple  of  days. 

Having  used  this  mustard  for  years  in  my  own  family,  I  can 
safely  advise  my  friends  to  undertake  the  trifling  labor  of  pre- 
paring it  in  consideration  of  the  satisfaction  to  be  derived  from 
the  condiment.  I  mix  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  with  pestle  of 
the  same ;  but  a  bowl  is  nearly  as  good.  It  will  keep  for  weeks. 


CATSUPS  AND  FLAVORED  VINEGARS.  119 


Horse-radish. 
Scrape  or  grind,  cover  with  vinegar,  and  keep  in  wide- 
mouthed  bottles.    To  eat  with  roast  beef  and  cold  meats. 

Walnut  Catsup. 
Choose  young  walnuts  tender  enoui'  to  be  pierced  with  a 
pin  or  needle.  Prick  them  in  several  ])laces,  and  lay  in  a  jar 
with  a  handful  of  salt  to  every  twenty-five,  and  water  enough 
to  cover  them.  Break  them  with  a  billet  of  wood  or  wooden 
beetle,  and  let  them  lie  in  the  pickle  a  fortnight,  stirring  twice 
a  day.  Drain  off  the  liquor  into  a  saucepan,  and  cover  the 
shells  with  boiling  vinegar  to  extract  what  juice  remains  in 
them.  Crush  to  a  pulp  and  strain  through  a  cullender  into 
the  saucepan.  Allow  for  every  quart  an  ounce  of  black  pepper 
and  one  of  ginger,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves  and  half  an  ounce 
of  nutmeg,  beaten  fine.  Put  in  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  a  shallot 
minced  fine  for  every  two  quarts,  and  a  thimbleful  of  celery 
seed  tied  in  a  bag  for  the  same  quantity.  Boil  all  together  for 
an  hour,  if  there  be  a  gallon  of  the  mixture.  Bottle  when 
cold,  putting  an  equal  quantity  of  the  spice  in  each  flask. 
Butternuts  make  dehghtful  catsup. 

Mushroom  Catsup. 

2  quarts  of  mushrooms, 
lb.  of  salt. 

Lay  in  an  earthenware  pan,  in  alternate  layers  of  mushrooms 
and  salt ;  let  them  lie  six  hours,  then  break  into  bits.  Set  in 
a  cool  place  three  days,  stirring  thoroughly  every  morning. 
Measure  the  juice  when  you  have  strained  it,  and  to  every 
quart  allow  half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  the  same  quantity  of 
ginger,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  mace,  a  teaspoonful  of 
cayenne.  Put  into  a  stone  jar,  cover  closely,  set  in  a  saucepan 
of  boiling  water  over  the  fire,  and  boil  five  hours  hard.  Take 
it  off,  empty  into  a  procelain  kettle,  and  boil  slowly  half  an 
hour  longer.    Let  it  stand  all  night  in  a  cool  place,  until 


120 


COMMON  SENSE. 


settled  and  clear.  Pour  off  carefully  from  the  sediment,  and 
bottle,  filling  the  flasks  to  the  mouth.  Dip  the  corks  in  melted 
rosin,  and  tie  up  with  bladders. 

The  bottles  should  be  very  small,  as  it  soon  spoils  when  ex- 
posed to  the  air. 

Tomato  Catsup.  :|: 
I  peck  ripe  tomatoes. 
I  ounce  salt. 
I    "  mace. 
I  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 
I  teaspoonful  cayenne. 
I  tablespoonful  cloves  (powdered). 
7  ground  mustard. 

I  "  celery  seed  (tied  in  a  thin  muslin  bag). 

Cut  a  sHt  in  the  tomatoes,  put  in  a  bell-metal  or  porcelain 
kettle,  and  boil  until  the  juice  is  all  extracted  and  the  pulp 
dissolved.  Strain  and  press  through  a  cullender,  then  through 
a  hair  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire,  add  the  seasoning,  and  boil 
at  least  five  hours,  stirring  constantly  for  the  last  hour,  and 
frequently  throughout  the  time  it  is  on  the  fire.  Let  it  stand 
twelve  hours  in  a  stone  jar  on  the  cellar  floor.  When  cold, 
add  a  pint  of  strong  vinegar.  Take  out  the  bag  of  celery 
seed,  and  bottle,  sealing  the  corks.  Keep  in  a  dark,  cool 
place. 

Tomato  and  walnut  are  the  most  useful  catsups  we  have 
for  general  purposes,  and  either  is  m  itself  a  fine  sauce  for 
roast  meat,  cold  fowl,  game,  etc. 

Lemon  Catsup. 

12  large,  fresh  lemons. 

4  tablespoonfuls  white  mustard-seed. 
I  "  turmeric. 

I  "  white  pepper. 

I  teaspoonful  cloves. 
I  mace. 


CATSUPS  AND  FLAVORED  VINEGARS.  121 


1  saltspoonful  cayenne. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

2  "  grated  horse-radish. 

4  shallot,  minced  fine. 

Juice  of  the  lemons. 

2  tablespoonfuls  table-salt. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  lemons ;  pound  or  grind  the  spices, 
and  put  all  together,  including  the  horse-radish.  Strew  the 
salt  over  all,  add  the  lemon-juice,  and  let  it  stand  three  hours 
in  a  cool  place.  Boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle  half  an  hour. 
Pour  into  a  covered  vessel— china  or  stone— and  let  it  stand 
a  fortnight,  stirring  well  every  day.  Then  strain,  bottle,  and 
seal. 

It  is  a  fine  seasoning  for  fish  sauces,  fish  soups,  and  game 
ragouts. 

"  Ever-ready"  Catsup.  | 

2  quarts  cider  vinegar. 

12  anchovies,  washed,  soaked,  and  pulled  to  pieces. 
12  small  onions,  peeled  and  minced. 
I  tablespoonful  mace. 

3  "  fine  salt. 

3  ((  white  sugar. 

1  "  cloves. 

3  "  whole  black  pepper. 

2  "  ground  ginger. 
I          "  cayenne. 

I  quart  mushrooms,  minced,  o/ 
I      "    ripe  tomatoes,  sliced. 

Put  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  boil  slowly  four  hours,  or 
until  the  mixture  is  reduced  to  one-half  the  original  quantity. 
Strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Do  not  bottle  until  next  day. 
Fill  the  flasks  to  the  top,  and  dip  the  corks  in  beeswax  and 
rosin. 

This  catsup  will  keep  for  years.    Mixed  with  drawn  butter. 


122 


COMMON  SENSE. 


it  is  used  as  a  sauce  for  boiled  fish,  but  it  is  a  fine  flavoring 
essence  of  gravies  of  almost  any  kind. 

Mock  Capers.  | 
Gather  green  nasturtium  seed  when  they  are  full  grown, 
but  not  yellow;  dry  for  a  day  in  the  sun;  put  into  small 
jars  or  wide-mouthed  bottles,  cover  with  boiling  vinegar, 
slightly  spiced,  and  when  cool,  cork  closely.  In  six  weeks 
they  will  be  fit  for  use.  They  give  an  agreeable  taste  to 
drawn  butter  for  fish,  or  boiled  beef  and  mutton. 

Elderberry  Catsup. 
I  quart  of  elderberries. 

1  "    of  vinegar. 

6  anchovies,  soaked  and  pulled  to  pieces. 
Half  a  teaspoonful  mace. 
A  pinch  of  ginger. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 

I  tablespoonful  whole  peppers. 

Scald  the  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  berries,  which  must  be 
picked  from  the  stalks  and  put  into  a  large  stone  jar.  Cover 
with  a  pane  of  glass,  and  set  in  the  hot  sun  two  days.  Strain 
oflf  the  liquor,  and  boil  up  with  the  other  ingredients,  stirring 
often,  one  hour,  keeping  covered,  unless  while  stirring.  Let 
it  cool;  strain  and  bottle. 

This  is  used  for  flavoring  brown  gravies,  soups,  and  ragouts, 
and,  stirred  into  browned  butter,  makes  a  good  piquant  sauce 
for  broiled  or  baked  fish. 

Pepper  Vinegar. 
6  pods  red  peppers  broken  up. 
3  dozen  black  pepper-corns. 
2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 
I  quart  of  best  vinegar. 


SALADS.  • 

Scald  the  vinegar  in  which  the  sugar  has  been  dissolved  • 
pour  over  the  pepper,  put  into  ajar,  and  steep  a  fortnight' 
Strain  and  bottle. 

_  This  is  eaten  with  boiled  fish  and  raw  oysters,  and  is  useful 
in  the  preparation  of  salads. 


SALADS. 

"The  dressing  of  the  salad  should  be  saturated  with  oil 
and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt  before  the  vinegar  is  added' 
It  results  from  this  process  that  there  never  can  be  too  much 
vmegar;  for,  from  the  specific  gravity  of  the  vinegar  com- 
pared with  oil,  what  is  more  than  useful  will  fall  to  the  bottom 
of  the  bowl.  The  salt  should  not  be  dissolved  in  the  vinegar 
but  m  the  oil,  by  which  means  it  is  more  equally  distributed 
throughout  the  salad."- a  French  chemist 

The  Spanish  proverb  says,  that  -to  make  a  perfect  salad 
there  should  be  a  miser  for  oil,  a  spendthrift  for  vinegar  a 
wise  man  for  salt,  and  a  madcap  to  stir  the  ingredients  up  and 
mix  them  well  together." 

Sydney  Smith's  Receipt  for  Salad  Dressing. 
Two  boiled  potatoes,  strained  through  a  kitchen  sieve. 
Softness  and  smoothness  to  the  salad  give ; 
Of  mordant  mustard  take  a  single  spoon- 
Distrust  the  condiment  that  bites  too  soon; 
Yet  deem  it  not,  thou  man  of  taste,  a  fault,' 
To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt. 
Four  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  Lucca  crown, 
And  twice  with  vinegar  procured  from  town ;  ' 
True  taste  requires  it,  and  your  poet  begs 
The  pounded  yellow  of  two  well-boiled  eggs. 
Let  onions'  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl, 
And,  scarce  suspected,  animate  the  whole  • 


124 


COMMON  SENSE. 


And  lastly,  in  the  flavored  compound  toss 

A  magic  spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce. 

Oh,  great  and  glorious  !  oh,  herbaceous  meat ! 

'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat. 

Back  to  the  world  he'd  turn  his  weary  soul, 

And  plunge  his  fingers  in  the  salad  bowl. 
At  least  twenty-five  years  ago  I  pasted  the  above  doggerel 
in  my  scrap-book,  and  committed  it  to-  memory.  The  first 
salad  I  was  ever  trusted  to  compound  was  dressed  in  strict 
obedience  to  the  directions  of  the  witty  divine,  and  to  this  day 
these  seem  to  me  pertinent  and  worthy  of  note.  The  anchovy 
sauce  can  be  omitted  if  you  like,  and  a  spoonful  of  Harvey's 
or  Worcestershire  substituted.  This  is  best  suited  for  chicken 
or  turkey  salad. 

Lobster  Salad.  | 
Pick  out  every  bit  of  the  meat  from  the  body  and  claws  of 
a  cold  boiled  lobster.    Lay  aside  the  coral  for  the  dressing, 

mince  the  rest.    For  the  dressing  you  will  need  

4  eggs,  boiled  hard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil. 

I  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 

1  "  salt. 

2  white  sugar. 

^       "         cayenne  pepper.     Vinegar  at  discretion. 
I        "        of  Harvey's,  Worcestershire,  or  anchovy 
sauce. 

Rub  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a  mortar  or  bowl,  with  a 
Wedgewood  pestle,  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon,  until  perfectly 
free  from  lumps.  Add  gradually,  rubbing  all  the  while,  the 
other  ingredients,  the  coral  last.  This  should  have  been 
worked  well  upon  a  plate  with  a  silver  knife  or  wooden  spatula. 
Proceed  slowly  and  carefully  in  the  operation  of  amalgamating 
the  various  ingredients,  moistening  with  vinegar  as  they  stifi"en. 
Increase  the  quantity  of  this  as  the  mixture  grows  smooth,  un- 


SALADS. 


125 


til  it  is  thin  enough  to  pour  over  the  minced  lobster.  You 
will  need  a  teacupful  at  least.  Then  stir  long  and  well,  that 
the  meat  may  be  thoroughly  impregnated  with  the  dressing. 
Some  mix  chopped  lettuce  with  the  salad ;  but  unless  it  is  to 
be  eaten  within  a  few  minutes,  the  vinegar  will  wither  the  ten- 
der leaves.  The  better  plan  is  to  heap  a  glass  dish  with  the 
inner  leaves  of  several  lettuce  heads,  laying  pounded  ice  among 
them,  and  pass  with  the  lobster,  that  the  guests  may  add  the 
green  salad  to  their  taste. 

When  lettuce  is  out  of  season,  the  following  dressing,  the 
receipt  for  which  was  given  me  by  a  French  gourmand,  may 
be  used. 

Prepare  the  egg  and  coral  as  above,  with  the  condiments 
there  mentioned,  but  mix  with  the  lobster-meat  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  fine  white  cabbage,  chopped  small,  with  two  small 
onions,  also  minced  into  almost  indivisible  bits,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  anchovy  or  other  sauce,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  celery 
vinegar. 

All  lobster  salad  should  be  eaten  as  soon  as  possible  after 
the  dressing  is  added,  else  it  becomes  unwholesome.  If  you 
use  canned  lobster,  open  and  turn  out  the  contents  of  the  can 
into  a  china  dish  several  hours  before  you  mix  the  dressing, 
that  the  close,  airless  smell  may  pass  away. 

Garnish  the  edges  of  the  dish  with  cool  white  leaves  of 
curled  lettuce,  or  with  a  chain  of  rings  made  of  the  whites  of 
the  boiled  eggs. 

Chicken  Salad.  | 
The  white  meat  of  a  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken  (or 
turkey). 

Three-quarters  the  same  bulk  of  chopped  celery. 

2  hard-boiled  eggs. 

I  raw  egg,  well-beaten. 

I  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

I         "  pepper. 

I         "         made  mustard. 


126 


COIVIMON  SENSE. 


3  teaspoonfuls  salad  oil. 

2         "         white  sugar. 

>^  teacupful  of  vinegar. 
Mince  the  meat  well,  removing  every  scrap  of  fat,  gristle, 
and  skin ;  cut  the  celery  into  bits  half  an  inch  long,  or  less, 
mix  them,  and  set  aside  in  a  cold  place  while  you  prepare  the 
dressing. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  fine  powder,  add  the  salt, 
pepper,  and  sugar,  then  the  oil,  grinding  hard,  and  putting  in 
but  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  The  mustard  comes  next,  and  let 
all  stand  together  while  you  whip  the  raw  egg  to  a  froth. 
Beat  this  into  the  dressing,  and  pour  in  the  vinegar  spoonful 
by  spoonful,  whipping  the  dressing  well  as  you  do  it.  Sprinkle 
a  little  dry  salt  over  the  meat  and  celery;  toss  it  up  lightly 
with  a  silver  fork ;  pour  the  dressing  over  it,  tossing  and  mix- 
ing until  the  bottom  of  the  mass  is  as  well  saturated  as  the 
top  j  turn  into  the  salad-bowl,  and  garnish  with  white  of  eggs 
(boiled)  cut  into  rings  or  flowers,  and  sprigs  of  bleached 
celer}'-tops. 

If  you  cannot  get  celery,  substitute  crisp  white  cabbage,  and 
use  celery  vinegar  in  the  dressing.  You  can  also,  in  this  case, 
chop  some  green  pickles,  gherkins,  mangoes,  or  cucumbers,' 
and  stir  in. 

Turkey  makes  even  better  salad  than  chicken. 
You  can  make  soup  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  fowl  is  cooked, 
since  it  need  not  be  boiled  in  a  cloth. 

Lettuce  Salad.  + 
Two  or  three  heads  white  lettuce. 
2  hard-boiled  eggs. 
2  teaspoonfuls  salad  oil. 
y2       "  salt. 
I         "         white  sugar. 
/4       "        made  mustard. 
I         "  pepper. 
4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 


SALADS. 


127 


Rub  the  yolks  to  a  powder,  add  sugar,  pepper,  salt,  mus- 
tard, and  oil.  Let  it  stand  five  minutes,  and  beat  in  the  vine- 
gar. Cut  the  lettuce  up  with  a  knife  and  fork, — a  chopper 
would  bruise  it, — put  into  a  bowl,  add  the  dressing,  and  mix 
by  tossing  with  a  silver  fork. 

Water-Cresses. 
Wash  and  pick  over  the  cresses  carefully,  pluck  from  the 
stems,  and  pile  in  the  salad  bowl,  with  a  dressing  of  vinegar, 
pepper,  salt,  and  sugar,  well  stirred  in. 

Cabbage  Salad,  or  Cold  Si-aw.  J 

1  head  of  fine  white  cabbage,  minced  fine. 
3  hard-boiled  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil. 

2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 
I         "  pepper. 
I         "         made  mustard. 
I  teacupful  vinegar. 
Mix  as  for  lettuce  and  pour  upon  the  chopped  cabbage. 

Tomato  Salad.  J 
12  medium-sized  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced. 
4  hard-boiled  eggs. 
I  raw  egg,  well  beaten. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 
Yo,  spoonful  cayenne  pepper. 
I  teaspoonful  white  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  salad  oil. 

2  teaspoonfuls  made  mustard. 
I  teacupful  vinegar. 

Rub  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  paste,  adding  by  degrees  the 
salt,  pepper,  sugar,  mustard,  and  oil.  Beat  the  raw  egg  to  a 
froth  and  stir  in, — lastly  the  vinegar.    Peel  the  tomatoes,  slice 


128 


COMMON  SENSE. 


them  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  set  the  dish  on  ice,  while 
you  are  making  ready  the  dressing.  Stir  a  great  lump  of  ice 
rapidly  in  this — the  dressing — until  it  is  cold;  take  it  out, 
cover  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture,  and  set  back  on  the  ice 
until  you  send  to  table. 

This  salad  is  delicious,  especially  when  ice-cold. 

Celery  Salad.  | 
I  boiled  egg. 
I  raw  egg. 

I  tablespoonful  salad  oil. 

I  teaspoonful  white  sugar. 

I  saltspoonful  salt. 

I         "  pepper. 

4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 

I  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 
Prepare  the  dressing  as  for  tomato  salad ;  cut  the  celery 
into  bits  half  an  inch  long,  and  season.    Eat  at  once,  before 
the  vinegar  injures  the  crispness  of  the  vegetable. 

Cheese,  Salad,  or  Mock  Crab. 

^  lb.  pickled  shrimps. 

%  lb.  good  old  cheese. 

I  tablespoonful  salad  oil. 

I  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 

I         "  salt. 

I         "        white  sugar. 

I  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 

4  tablespoonfuls  celery  or  onion  vinegar. 
Mince  the  shrimps  and  grate  the  cheese.  Work  into  the 
latter,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  various  condiments  enumerated 
above,  the  vinegar  last.  Let  all  stand  together  ten  minutes 
before  adding  the  shrimps.  When  this  is  done,  stir  well  for  a 
minute  and  a  half  and  serve  in  a  glass  dish,  garnished  with 
lemon,  or  (if  you  can  get  one)  in  a  clean  crab-shell 


POTATOES. 


129 


VEGETABLES. 


Rules  Applicable  to  the  Cooking  of  all  Vegetables. 

1.  Have  them  as  fresh  as  possible.  Stale  and  withered 
ones  are  unwholesome  and  unpalatable.  Summer  vegetables 
should  be  cooked  on  the  same  day  they  are  gathered,  if  pos- 
sible. 

2.  Pick  over  and  wash  well,  cutting  out  all  decayed  or  un- 
ripe parts. 

3.  Lay  them,  when  peeled,  in  cold  water  for  some  time  be^ 
fore  cooking-. 

4.  If  you  boil  them,  put  a  little  salt  in  the  water. 

5.  Cook  them -steadily  after  you  put  them  on. 

6.  Be  sure  they  are  thoroughly  done.  Rare  vegetables  are 
neither  good  nor  fashionable. 

7.  Drain  well. 

8.  Serve  hot. 


POTATOES. 
Boiled  Potatoes  {with  the  skins  on). 
Boil  in  cold  water  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Have  them  of  uni- 
form size,  and  cook  steadily  until  a  fork  will  pierce  easily  to 
the  heart  of  the  largest.  Then  pour  off  the  water,  €  very  drop ; 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  set  back  on  the  range,  a  little  to  one 
side,  with  the  lid  of  the  pot  off.  Let  them  dry  three  or  four 
minutes ;  peel  very  quickly  and  serve  in  an  uncovered  dish. 

[Without  the  Skins.) 
Pare  very  thin.    The  glory  of  a  potato  is  its  mealiness,  and 
much  of  the  starch,  or  meal,  lies  next  the  skin — consequently 
is  lost  by  slovenly  paring,  which  likewise  defaces  the  shape. 
I 


130 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Lay  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour,  have  ready  a  pot  of  boiling 
water  slightly  salted,  drop  in  the  potatoes,  and  keep  at  a  rapid 
boil  until  tender.  Drain  off  the  water,  sprinkle  with  fine  salt, 
and  dry  as  just  directed. 

Mashed  Potatoes.  J 

Old  potatoes  are  best  mashed.  Pare,  and  let  them  lie  in 
cold  water  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  A  longer 
time  will  not  hurt  them.  Boil  in  hot  or  cold  water  according 
to  the  toughness  of  texture.  A  coarse,  waxy  potato  is  best 
cooked  in  cold  water.  In  either  case,  put  in  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Drain  thoroughly  when  done,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  mash 
them  in  the  pot  with  a  potato-beetle,  working  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  and  enough  milk  to  make  the  paste  about  the 
consistency  of  soft  dough.  Leave  no  lumps  in  it,  and  when 
smooth,  dish.  Form  into  a  mound  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and 
leave  dots  of  pepper  here  and  there  on  the  surface,  as  large  as 
a  half-dime 

To  Boil  New  Potatoes. 

If  very  young,  rub  the  skin  off  with  a  rough  towel.  If 
almost  ripe,  scrape  with  a  blunt  knife.  Lay  in  cold  water  an 
hour,  cover  with  cold  water  slightly  salted,  boil  half  an  hour. 
Drain,  salt,  and  dry  for  two  or  three  minutes.  Send  to  table 
plain. 

To  Stew  Old  Potatoes.  | 

This  is  a  good  way  to  cook  potatoes  which  are  so  rank  and 
tough  as  hardly  to  be  eatable  in  any  other  form. 

Pare  and  quarter,  if  large.  Soak  in  cold  water  one  hour. 
Put  into  a  pot  with  enough  cold  salted  water  to  cover  them. 
When  almost  done,  turn  off  the  water,  add  a  like  quantity  of 
milk,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Before  taking  up,  stir  in  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  a  handful  of  chopped 
parsley,  and  thicken  slightly  with  flour  previously  wet  in  cold 
milk.    Boil  one  minute,  and  pour  all  into  a  deep  dish. 


POTATOES. 


131 


Stewed  Potatoes  for  Breakfast. 

Pare,  quarter,  and  soak  in  cold  water  half  an  hour.  Stew  in 
enough  cold  salted  water  to  cover  them.  Before  taking  up, 
and  when  they  are  breaking  to  pieces,  drain  off  half  the  water, 
and  pour  in  a  cupful  of  milk.  Boil  three  minutes,  stirring 
well ;  put  in  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  salt 
and  a  pinch  of  pepper;  thicken  slightly  with  flour,  boil  up 
well  and  turn  into  a  covered  disli. 

This  is  an  excellent  family  dish.  Children  are  usually  fond 
of  it,  and  it  is  very  wholesome. 

Baked  Potatoes. 
Wash  and  wipe  some  large  ripe  potatoes,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  until  tender,  say  from  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to 
an  hour,  if  of  a  good  size.  Serve  in  a  napkin  with  the  skins 
on.  Tear  or  cut  a  hole  in  the  top  when  you  eat  them,  put  in 
a  bit  of  butter  with  salt  and  pepper.  They  are  good  for  boys' 
cold  fingers  at  supper-time  on  winter  nights. 

Potato  Puff.  | 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  cold,  mashed  potatoes,  and  stir  into  it 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  beating  to  a  white  cream 
before  adding  anything  else.  Then  put  with  this  two  eggs 
whipped  very  light  and  a  teacupful  of  cream  or  milk,  salting 
to  taste.  Beat  all  well,  pour  into  a  deep  dish,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  until  it  is  nicely  browned.  If  properly  mixed  it 
will  come  out  of  the  oven  light,  pufty  and  delectable. 

Potatoes  Warmed  0\i.^~alias  au  Mditre  d' Hotel 
Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and 
put  into  a  saucepan  with  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  milk, 
two  or  three  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  some  chopped 
parsley.  Heat  quickly,  stirring  all  the  time  until  ready  to 
boil,  when  stir  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.    Th^'^  last  in- 


132 


COMMON  SENSE. 


gredient  entit]es  the  dish  to  the  foreign  title.  Pour  into  a 
deep  dish,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Potato  Croquettes.  X 
Season  cold  mashed  potato  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg. 
Beat  to  a  cream,  v/ith  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  to 
every  cupful  of  potato.  Bind  with  two  or  three  beaten  eggs, 
and  add  some  minced  parsley.  Roll  into  oval  balls,  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drip- 
pings. 

Pile  in  a  pyramid  upon  a  flat  dish,  and  serve. 

Fried  Potatoes.  | 
Pare,  wash,  and  slice  some  raw  potatoes  as  thin  as  wafers. 
This  can  be  done  with  a  sharp  knife,  although  there  is  a  little 
instrument  for  the  purpose,  to  be  had  at  the  house-furnishing 
stores,  which  flutes  prettily  as  well  as  slices  evenly.  Lay  in 
ice-water  for  half  an  hour,  wipe  dry  in  two  cloths,  spreading 
them  upon  one,  and  pressing  the  other  upon  them.  Have 
ready  in  the  frying  pan  some  boiling  lard  or  nice  dripping,  fry 
a  light  brown,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve  in  a  napkin  laid  in 
a  deep  dish  and  folded  over  the  potatoes.  To  dry  them  of 
the  fat,  take  from  the  frymg-pan  as  soon  as  they  are  brown, 
with  a  perforated  skimmer,  put  into  a  cullender  and  shake  for 
an  instant.    They  should  be  crisp  and  free  from  grease. 

Potatoes  a  la  Creme.  I 
Put  into  a  saucepan  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  small 
handful  of  parsley  chopped  small,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Stir  up  well  until  hot,  add  a  small  teacupful  of  cream  or  rich 
milk,  thicken  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  and  stir  until  it 
boils.  Chop  some  cold  boiled  potatoes,  put  into  the  mixture, 
and  boil  up  once  before  serving. 

Stuffed  potatoes.  | 
Take  large,  fair  potatoes,  bake  until  soft,  and  cut  a  round 


POTATOES. 


133 


piece  off  the  top  of  each.  Scrape  out  the  inside  carefully, 
so  as  not  to  break  the  skin,  and  set  aside  the  empty  cases  with 
the  covers.  Mash  the  inside  very  smoothly,  working  into  it 
while  hot  some  butter  and  cream— about  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
each  for  every  potato.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  with  a 
good  pinch  of  grated  cheese  for  each;  work  it  very  soft  with 
milk,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  to  heat,  stirring  to  prevent 
burning.  When  scalding  hot,  stir  in  one  well  beaten  egg  for 
six  large  potatoes.  Boil  up  once,  fill  the  skins  with  the  mix- 
ture, replacing  the  caps,  return  them  to  the  oven  for  three 
minutes;  arrange  upon  a  napkin  in  a  deep  dish,  the  caps 
uppermost ;  cover  with  a  fold  of  the  napkin,  and  eat  hot. 

Browned  Potatoes— ( i^//<7/^). 

Boil  and  peel  some  large,  ripe  potatoes,  and  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  before  a  piece  of  roast  beef  is  removed  from  ihe 
fire,  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy;  put  the  potatoes  in  the 
dripping-pan,  having  dredged  them  well  with  flour.  Baste 
them,  to  prevent,  scorching,  with  the  gravy,  and  when  quite 
brown,  drain  on  a  sieve.  Lay  them  about  the  meat  in  the 
dish. 

Browned  ^otkto— {Mashed). 

This  is  also  an  accompaniment  to  roast  beef  or  mutton. 
Mash  some  boiled  potatoes  smoothly  with  a  little  milk,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  a  boiled  onion  (minced) ;  make  into  small  cones 
or  balls ;  flour  well,  and  put  under  or  beside  the  meat,  half 
an  hour  or  so  before  you  take  it  up.  Skim  off  all  the  fat  from 
the  gravy  before  putting  them  in.  Drain  them  dry  when 
brown,  and  lay  around  the  meat  when  dished. 

These  are  nice  with  roast  spare-rib,  or  any  roast  pork  that 
is  not  too  fat. 

Broiled  Potatoes. 

Cut  Avhole  boiled  potatoes,  lengthwise,  into  sHces  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick,  and  lay  upon  a  gridiron  over  a  hot,  bright 


134 


COMMON  SENSE. 


fire.  Brown  on  both  sides,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  lay 
a  bit  of  butter  upon  each,  and  eat  very  hot. 

Potato  Cakes. 
Make  cold  mashed  potato  into  flat  cakes;  flour  and  fry  in 
lard,  or  good  sweet  dripping,  until  they  are  a  light-brown. 

Roast  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Select  those  of  uniform  size,  wash,  wipe,  and  roast  until  you 
can  tell,  by  gently  pressing  the  largest  between  the  finger  and 
thumb,  that  it  is  mellow  throughout.   Serve  in  their  jackets. 

Sweet,  as  well  as  Irish  potatoes,  are  very  good  for  picnic 
luncheon,  roasted  in  hot  ashes.  This,  it  will  be  remembered, 
was  the  dinner  General  Marion  set  before  the  British  oflicer  as 
^'  quite  a  feast,  I  assure  you,  sir.  We  don't  often  fare  so  well  as 
to  have  sweet  potatoes  and  salt." 

The  feast  was  cleansed  from  ashes  by  the  negro-orderly's 
shirt-sleeve,  and  served  upon  a  natural  trencher  of  pine-bark. 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Have  them  all  as  nearly  the  same  size  as  possible;  put  into 
cold  water,  without  any  salt,  and  boil  until  a  fork  will  easily 
pierce  the  largest.  Turn  off  the  water,  and  lay  them  in  the 
oven  to  dry  for  five  minutes.    Peel  before  sending  to  table. 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes.  J 

Parboil  them,  skin,  and  cut  lengthwise  into  slices  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick.    Fry  in  sweet  dripping  or  butter. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes  may  be  cooked  in  this  way.  Or  you 
can  chop  them  up  with  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  Irish  potatoes, 
put  them  into  a  frying-pan  with  a  good  lump  of  butter,  and  stir 
until  they  are  hot  and  slightly  brown. 


CABBAGE. 


135 


CABBAGE. 

Boiled  Cabbage. 

Pick  off  the  outer  green  leaves,  quarter,  examine  carefully 
to  be  sure  there  are  no  insects  in  it,  and  lay  for  an  hour  in 
cold  water.  Then  put  into  a  pot  with  plenty  of  boiling  water, 
and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Throw  away  the  water,  and  fill  up 
the  pot  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle.  Cook  until  tender  all 
through.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  will  do  for  a  good-sized 
cabbage  when  young.  Late  in  the  season  you  must  be  guided 
by  the  tenderness  of  the  stalk.  Drain  well,  chop,  and  stir  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Serve  very  hot. 
If  you  boil  corned  beef  or  pork  to  eat  with  cabbage,  let  the 
second  water  be  taken  from  the  pot  in  which  this  is  cooking. 
It  will  flavor  it  nicely. 

Always  boil  cabbage  in  two  waters. 

Bacon  and  Cabbage. 

This,  I  need  hardly  say,  is  a  favorite  country  dish  at  the 
South.  The  old-fashioned  way  of  preparing  it  was  to  boil 
meat  and  cabbage  together,  and  serve,  reeking  with  fat,  the 
cabbage  in  quarters,  soaking  yet  more  of  the  essence  from  the 
ham  or  middling  about  which  it  lay.  In  this  shape  it  justly 
earned  a  reputation  for  grossness  and  indigestibility  that 
banished  it,  in  time,  from  many  tables. 

Yet  it  is  a  savory  and  not  unwholesome  article  of  food  in 
winter,  if  the  cabbage  be  boiled  in  two  waters,  the  second  being 
the  "  pot-liquor  "  from  the  boiling  meat.  Drain  thoroughly  in 
a  cullender,  pressing  out  every  drop  of  water  that  will  flow, 
without  breaking  the  tender  leaves;  and  when  the  meat  is 
dished,  lay  the  cabbage  neatly  about  it,  and  upon  each  quarter 
a  slice  of  hard-boiled  egg. 

When  you  eat,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar. 

Ladies'  Cabbage.  % 
Boil  a  firm  white  cabbage  fifteen  minutes,  changing  the 


■I 


136 


COMMON  SENSE. 


water  then  for  more  from  the  boiHng  tea-kettle.  When  tender, 
drain  and  set  aside  until  perfectly  cold.  Chop  fine,  and  add 
two  beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  three 
tablespoonfuls  rich  milk  or  cream.  Stir  ah  well  together,  and 
bake  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish  until  brown.    Eat  very  hot. 

I  can  conscientiously  recommend  this  dish  even  to  those 
who  are  not  fond  of  any  of  the  ordinary  preparations  of  cab- 
bage. It  is  digestible  and  palatable,  more  nearly  resembHng 
cauliflower  in  taste  than  its  coarser  and  commoner  cousin- 
Gerinan. 

Sauerkraut. 

Shred  or  chop  the  cabbage  fine.  Line  a  barrel,  keg  or  jar 
with  cabbage-leaves  on  the  bottom  and  sides.  Put  in  a  layer 
of  the  cut  cabbage,  three  inches  in  depth  ;  press  down  well 
and  sprinkle  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  salt.  When  you 
have  packed  five  layers  in  this  way,  press  hard  with  a  board 
cut  to  fit  loosely  on  the  inside  of  the  barrel  or  jar.  Put  heavy 
weights  on  this,  or  pound  with  a  wooden  beetle  until  the  cab- 
bage is  a  compact  mass,  v/hen  remove  the  board  and  put  in  more 
layers  of  salt  and  shred  cabbage,  repeating  the  pounding  every 
four  or  five  layers,  until  the  vessel  is  full.  Cover  with  leaves, 
and  put  the  board  on  the  top  of  these  with  a  heavy  weight  to 
keep  it  down.  Set  all  away  to  ferment.  In  three  weeks 
remove  the  scum,  and  if  need  be,  cover  with  water.  Keep  in 
a  cool  dry  cellar.  It  can  be  eaten  raw  or  boiled,  and  seasoned 
with  pork. 

This  is  the  mode  shnple  if  not  pur  of  preparing  this,  to 
nostrils  unaccustomed  to  it,  malodorous  compound.  Some 
add  to  the  salt  whole  black  peppers,  cloves,  garlic,  and  mace 
— then  put  it  away,"  as  a  mild,  motherly  Teuton  dame  once 
told  me,  "  in  the  cellar  to  r— "  Rot  !"  interpolated  a  dis- 
gusted bystander,  anticipating  her  deliberate  utterance.  "  No^ 
my  dear,"  drawled  the  placid  Frau,  "  to  ripens 


CAULIFLOWER. 


137 


CAULIFLOWER,  &c. 
Boiled  Cauliflower. 

Pick  off  the  leaves  and  cut  the  stalk  close  to  the  bottom  of 
the  bunch  of  flowers.  Lay  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Unless  very  large,  do  not  cut  it ;  if  you  do,  quarter  it  neatly. 
Tie  a  close  net  of  coarse  bobbinet  lace  or  tarlatan  about  it  to 
prevent  breaking  or  bruising ;  put  into  boiling  water,  salted, 
and  cook  until  tender.  Undo  and  remove  the  net,  and  lay  the 
cauliflower  in  a  hot  dish.  Have  ready  a  large  cupful  of  nice 
drawn  butter  and  pour  over  it. 

Cut  with  a  silver  knife  and  fork  in  helping  it  out,  and  give 
a  little  of  the  sauce  to  each  person.  Take  it  out  of  the  water 
as  soon  as  it  is  done,  serve  quickly,  and  eat  hot.  It  darkens 
with  standing. 

Stewed  Cauliflowers. 

Use  for  this  dish  the  smaller  and  more  indifferent  cauli- 
flowers. Cut  them  into  small  clusters ;  lay  in  cold  salt  and 
water  half  an  hour,  and  stew  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling  water. 
Turn  most  of  this  off,  leaving  but  half  a  teacupful  in  the  sauce-  '* 
pan.  Add  to  this  a  half-cupful  of  milk  thickened  with  a  very 
little  rice  or  wheat  flour,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Shake  the  saucepan  over  the  fire 
gently  until  it  boils ;  take  out  the  cauliflowers  with  a  per- 
forated skimmer,  lay  in  order  upon  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  them. 

Scalloped  Cauliflower. 
Boil  until  tender,  clip  into  neat  clusters,  and  pack— the 
stems  downward— in  a  buttered  pudding-dish.  Beat  up  a  cup-  ' 
ful  of  bread  crumbs  to  a  soft  paste  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter  and  three  of  cream  or  milk  ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  bind  with  a  beaten  egg,  and  with  this  cover  the  cauli- 
flower.   Cover  the  dish  closely  and  bake  six  minutes  in  a 


138 


COMMON  SENSE. 


quick  oven ;  browr  in  five  more,  and  serve  very  hot  in  the 
dish  in  which  they  were  baked. 

Mashed  Turnips. 

Peel  and  lay  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted,  until  the  water 
boils  in  the  saucepan  intended  for  them.  Put  them  in  and 
boil  until  very  tender.  The  time  will  depend  upon  their  age. 
Drain  and  mash  in  the  cullender  with  a  wooden  spoon,  stirring 
in  at  the  last  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  serve  hot. 

If  eaten  with  boiled  corned  beef,  you  may  take  a  little  of  the 
liquor  from  the  pot  in  which  the  meat  is  cooking;  put  it  into 
a  saucepan,  boil  up  once  to  throw  off  the  scum,  skim  clean, 
and  cook  the  turnips  in  this. 

Young  Turnips  Boiled  Whole. 

Pare  smoothly,  and  trim  all  into  the  same  size  and  shape. 
Lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour.  Put  on  in  boiling  water,  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  stew  until  tender.  Drain,  dr^^, 
without  crushing  or  breaking  them ;  pile  in  a  deep  dish,  and 
cover  with  a  white  sauce  made  of  butter  drawn  in  milk. 
Turnips  should  be  eaten  very  hot  always. 

Boiled  Spinach. 

In  respect  to  quantity,  spinacn  is  desperately  deceitful.  I 
never  see  it  drained  after  it  is  boiled  without  bethinking  my- 
self of  a  picture  I  saw  many  years  since,  illustrative  of  the 
perils  of  innocent  simplicity.  A  small  (lucky)  boy  and  big 
(unlucky)  one  have  been  spending  their  holiday  in  fishing. 
While  the  former,  well  satisfied  with  the  result  of  his  day's 
sport,  is  busy  putting  up  his  rod  and  tackle,  the  designing 
elder  dexterously  substitutes  his  own  string  of  minnows  for  the 
other's  store  of  fine  perch.  The  Httle  fellow,  turning  to  pick 
it  up,  without  a  suspicion  of  the  cruel  cheat,  makes  piteous 


SPINACH. 


139 


round  eyes  at  his    fellow,    ejaculating,   "  How   they  have 
swhrunk  !  " 

A  young  housekeeper  of  my  acquaintance,  ordering  a  spring 
dinner  for  herself  and  husband,  purchased  a  quart  of  spinach- 
When  it  should  have  appeared  upon  the  table,  there  came  in 
its  stead  a  platter  of  sliced  egg,  she  having  given  out  one  for 
the  dressing.  "  Where  is  the  spinach  ?  "  she  demanded  of  the 
maid  of  all  work.  "  Under  the  egg,  ma'am  !  "  And  it  was 
really  all  there. 

Moral. — Get  enough  spinach  to  be  visible  to  the  naked  eye. 
A  peck  is  not  too  much  for  a  family  of  four  or  five. 

Pick  it  over  very  carefully ;  it  is  apt  to  be  gritty.  Wash  in 
several  waters,  and  let  it  lie  in  the  last  half  an  hour  at  least. 
Take  out  with  your  hands,  shaking  each  bunch  well,  and  put 
into  boiHng  water,  with  a  little  salt.  Boil  from  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes.  When  tender,  drain  thoroughly,  chop  very 
fine  ;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  until  very  hot,  turn  into  a  dish 
and  shape  into  a  flat-topped  mound  with  a  silver  or  wooden 
spoon ;  slice  some  hard-boiled  eggs  and  lay  on  top. 

Spinach  a  la  CRi:ME.  i 
Boil  and  chop  very  fine,  or  rub  through  a  cullender.  Sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  in,  while  warm,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  melted  butter  (this  is  for  a  large  dish).  Put  into  a 
saucepan  and  heat,  stirring  constantly.  When  smoking  hot, 
add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  a  teaspoonful  white 
sugar.  Boil  up  once,  still  stirring,  and  press  firmly  into  a  hot 
bowl  or  other  mould.  Turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  garnish  with 
boiled  eggs. 

Green  Peas. 

Shell  and  lay.  in  cold  water  until  you  are  ready  to  cook 
them.  Put  into  salted  boiling  water,  and  cook  from*  twenty 
minutes  to  half  an  hour.  If  young  and  fresh,  the  shorter  time 
will  suffice.    If  just  gathered  from  your  own  vines  and  tender 


140 


COMMON  SENSE. 


season  only  with  salt    Market  peas  are  greatly  improved  by 
the  addition  of  a  small  lump  of  white  sugar.   It  improves  taste 
and  color.    The  English  always  put  it  in,  also  a  sprig  of  mint 
to  be  removed  when  the  peas  are  dished.    Drain  well,  and 
dish,  with  a  great  lump  of  butter  stirred  in,  and  a  little  pepper 
Keep  hot.  ^  * 

Pea  Fritters  or  Cakes.  J 

Cook  a  pint  or  three  cups  more  peas  than  you  need  for 
dinner.  Mash  while  hot  with  a  wooden  spoon,  seasoning  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Put  by  until  morning.  Make  a 
batter  of  two  whipped  eggs,  a  cupful  of  milk,  quarter  teaspoon- 
lul  soda,  a  half  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  and  half  a  cup  of 
flour.  Stir  the  pea-mixture  into  this,  beating  very  hard,  and 
cook  as  you  would  ordinary  griddle  cakes. 

I  can  testify,  from  experience,  that  they  make  a  delightful 
morning  dish,  and  hereby  return  thanks  to  the  unknown  friend 
to  whom  I  am  indebted  for  the  receipt. 

Asparagus  {boiled.) 
Cut  your  stalks  of  equal  length,  rejecting  the  woody  or 
lower  portions,  and  scraping  the  white  part  which  remains 
Throw  into  cold  water  as  you  scrape  them.    Tie  in  a  bunch 
with  soft  strings-muslin  or  tape-and  put  into  boiling  water 
slightly  salted.    If  very  young  and  fresh,  it  is  well  to  tie  in  a 
piece  of  coarse  net  to  protect  the  tops.    Boil  from  twenty  to 
forty  minutes,  according  to  the  age.    Just  before  it  is  done 
toast  two  or  three  slices  of  bread,  cutting  off  the  crust;  dip 
m  the  asparagus  liquor,  butter,  and  lay  in  a  hot  dish.  Wh-n 
you  take  off  the  asparagus,  drain,  unbind  the  bundle  and 
heap  it  upon  the  toast,  with  bits  of  butter  between  the  stalks. 

Asparagus  and  Eggs. 
Cut  twenty-five  or  thirty  heads  of  asparagus  into  bits  half 
an  inch  long,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.    Have  a  cupful  of 
rich  drawn  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  put  in  the  asparagus 


ONIONS. 


141 


when  you  have  drained  it  dry.  Heat  together  to  a  boil, 
seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  into  a  buttered 
bake-dish.  Break  five  or  six  eggs  carefully  over  the  surface  ; 
put  a  bit  of  butter  upon  each ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  pepper, 
and  put  in  the  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set. 

Boiled  Onions. 

Cut  off  tops  and  tails,  and  skin  thern.  Lay  in  cold  water 
half  an  hour,  then  put  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  them.  Cook  fifteen  minutes  and  drain  off  the 
water,  re-covering  them  with  more  from  the  boiling  tea-ketde. 
Boil  until  a  straw  will  pierce  them ;  drain  and  put  into  a  dish 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  plenty  of  butter.  Send  around  drawn 
butter  with  them.    Never  cook  onions  in  an  iron  pot. 

Stewed  Onions.  I 

Young  onions  should  always  be  cooked  in  this  way.  Top, 
tail,  and  skin  them,  lay  them  in  cold  water  half  an  hour  or 
more,  then  put  into  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  enough  to 
cover  them.  When  half  done,  throw  off  all  the  water,  except 
a  small  teacupful— less,  if  your  mess  is  small;  add  a  like 
quantity  of  milk,  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  with  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Stew  gently  until  tender,  and  turn  into  a  deep 
dish. 

If  the  onions  are  strong  and  large,  boil  in  three  waters, 
throwing  away  all  of  the  first  and  second,  and  reserving  a  very 
httle  of  the  third  to  mix  with  the  milk. 

It  ought  to  be  more  generally  known  that  the  disagreeable 
odor  left  by  any  of  the  onion  family  upon  the  breath  may  be 
removed  by  chewing  and  swallowing  a  few  grains  of  roasted 
coffee.  No  more  nutritious  vegetable  ever  finds  its  way  to 
our  tables,  and  it  is  greatly  to  be  regretted  that  the  unpleasant 
result  just  named  should  deter  so  many  from  eating  it.  It  is 
especially  beneficial  to  brain  workers  and  nervous  invalids — 
the  very  people  who  are  least  likely  to  taste  it. 


142 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Baked  Onions. 
The  large  Spanish  or  Bermuda  onions  are  the  only  kinds 
which  are  usually  baked.  Wash  clean,  but  do  not  remove  the 
skins.  Boil  an  hour — the  water  should  be  boiling  when  they 
are  put  in,  and  slightly  salt.  Change  it  twice  during  this  time, 
always  replenishing  with  more,  boiling  hot.  Turn  off  the 
water,  take  the  onions  out  and  lay  upon  a  cloth,  that  all  the 
moisture  may  be  absorbed  or  evaporate.  Roll  each  in  a 
round  piece  of  buttered  tissue-paper,  twisting  it  at  the  lop  to 
keep  it  closed,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  nearly  an  hour.  When 
tender  all  through,  peel  them,  put  them  into  a  deep  dish,  and 
brown  slightly,  basting  with  butter  freely.  This  will  take  per- 
haps a  quarter  of  an  hour  more.  Serve  in  a  vegetable  dish, 
and  pour  over  the  melted  butter,  when  you  have  sprinkled 
with  pepper  and  salt. 

Stewed  Tomatoes,  | 

Loosen  the  skins  by  pouring  scalding  water  upon  them  ; 
peel  and  cut  them  up,  extracting  the  cores  or  hard  part  of  the 
stem-end,  and  removing  all  unripe  portions.  Stew  in  a  sauce- 
pan (tin  or  porcelain)  half  an  hour,  when  add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
batter.    Stew  gently  fifteen  minutes  longer,  and  serve. 

Some  cooks  thicken  the  tomatoes  with  a  little  grated  bread. 
A  minced  onion — ^a  small  one — improves  the  flavor.  Another 
pleasant  variety  is  to  put  a  quarter  as  much  green  corn  as  you 
have  tomatoes  into  the  saucepan  when  it  is  first  set  on  the  fire, 
and  stew  gently. 

Stuffed  Baked  Tomatoes,  t 
Choose  large,  smooth  tomatoes,  and  cut  a  thin  slice  from 
the  blossom  end  of  each,  laying  it  aside  for  further  use.  Scoop 
out  the  inside,  and  chop  fine  with  a  little  grated  bread,  some 
green  corn,  salt,  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  white  sugar,  and  a 
tablespoonful  butter.  Mix  well,  and  stuff  the  hollowed  toma 
toes.    Fit  the  top  on  neatly,  place  in  circular  rows  in  a  deep 


TOMATOES. 


143 


dish  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  to  a  light  brown.  Fill 
the  interstices  with  the  fore-meat  if  you  have  any  left,  before 
you  bake.    Do  not  peel  them. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes.  | 

Peel  and  cut  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Pack  in 
a  pudding-dish  in  alternate  layers,  with  a  force-meat  made  of 
bread-crumbs,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  white  sugar. 
Spread  thickly  upon  each  stratum  of  tomatoes,  and  when  the 
dish  is  nearly  full,  put  tomatoes  uppermost,  a  good  bit  of  but- 
ter upon  each  sHce.  Dust  with  pepper  and  a  little  sugar. 
Strew  with  dry  bread-crumbs,  and  bake  covered  half  an  hour ; 
remove  the  lid  and  bake  brown. 

Scallop  of  Tomatoes  and  Green  Corn.  J 

This  is  made  as  above,  substituting  for  the  bread-crumbs  in 
the  fore-meat,  green  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  and  seasoning 
with  some  fat  pork  chopped  very  fine,  a  minced  shallot,  pepper, 
salt,  and  sugar.  Let  the  top  layer  be  tomatoes,  butter  and 
season,  and  sift  grated  bread-crumbs  over  it  to  brown  the 
scallop.  Bake  covered  half  an  hour ;  uncover  and  leave  in 
the  oven  as  much  longer.    This  time  is  for  a  large  dishful. 

Broiled  Tomatoes. 

Select  large,  firm  ones,  and  do  not  peel.  Slice  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  broil  upon  an  oyster  gridiron.  A  few  minutes  will 
suffice  to  cook  them.  Have  ready  in  a  cup  some  hot  butter, 
seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  sugar,  and  a  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  made  mustard.  As  soon  as  the  tomatoes  are  done,  dip 
each  piece  in  this  mixture  and  lay  upon  a  hot  chafing-dish. 
When  all  are  dished,  heat  what  remains  of  the  seasoning,  to  a 
boil,  pour  upon  them,  and  serve  at  once. 

Broiled  tomatoes  are  much  liked  by  those  who  have  eaten 
them  cooked  in  this  manner. 


144 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Baked  Tomatoes  {Flain). 
Peel  and  slice  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Pack  in  a  pud- 
ding-dish, seasoning  each  layer  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  a 
very  little  white  sugar.  Bake  covered  half  an  hour,  remove 
the  lid,  and  brown  for  fifteen  minutes.  Five  minutes  before 
taking  from  the  oven,  pour  over  the  top  three  or  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  whipped  up  for  a  few  minutes  with  melted 
butter. 

Raw  Tomatoes. 

Do  not  loosen  the  skins  with  scalding  water.  It  impairs  the 
flavor  and  destroys  the  crispness.  Pare  with  a  keen  knife, 
slice  and  lay  in  a  glass  dish.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
vinegar,  stirring  a  piece  of  ice  rapidly  around  in  the  dressfhg 
before  pouring  it  over  the  tomatoes,  and  setting  the  dish  in 
the  refrigerator  until  wanted. 

There  is  no  salad,  excepting,  perhaps,  lettuce  and  cucum- 
bers, that  is  more  improved  by  the  use  of  ice  than  tomatoes. 

Raw  Cucumbers. 
Pare  neatly  from  end  to  end,  and  lay  in  ice-water  one  hour. 
Wipe  them  and  slice  thin.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
vinegar — and  oil,  if  you  wish — laying  some  bits  of  ice  among 
them,  with  thin  slices  of  onion.  Cucumbers  should  be 
gathered  while  the  dew  is  on  them,  and  eaten  the  same  day. 
Leave  them  in  a  cool  place  until  you  are  ready  to  pare  them. 

Fried  Cucumbers.  X  , 

Pare  and  lay  in  ice- water  half  an  hour.  Cut  lengthwise 
into  slices  nearly  half  an  inch  thick,  and  lay  in  ice-water  ten 
minutes  longer.  Wipe  each  piece  dry  with  a  soft  cloth,  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Fry  to  a  delicate 
brown  in  sweet  clarified  dripping,  nice  lard,  or  butter. 

Many  declare  that  cucumbers  are  never  fit  to  eat  unless 
fried,  and  they  are  assuredly  far  more  wholesome  than  when 
served  raw. 


GREEN  CORN. 


145 


Boiled  Green  Corn. 
Choose  young  sugar-corn,  full  grown,  but  not  hard ;  test 
with  the  nail.  When  the  grain  is  pierced,  the  milk  should 
escape  in  a  jet,  and  not  be  thick.  Clean  by  stripping  off  the 
outer  leaves,  turn  back  the  innermost  covering  carefully, 
pick  off  every  thread  of  silk,  and  recover  the  ear  with  the  thm 
husk  that  grew  nearest  it.  Tie  at  the  top  with  a  bit  of  thread, 
put  into  boiling  water  salted,  and  cook  fast  from  twenty 
minutes  to  half  an  hour,  in  proportion  to  size  and  age.  Cut 
off  the  stalks  close  to  the  cob,  and  send  whole  to  the  table 
wrapped  in  a  napkin. 

Or,  you  can  cut  from  the  cob  while  hot,  and  season  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Send  to  table  in  a  root  or  vegetable 
dish. 

Corn  and  Tomatoes, 
Take  equal  quantities  of  green  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  and 
tomatoes  sliced  and  peeled.  Stew  together  half  an  hour; 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  very  little  sugar.  Stew  fifteen 
minutes  longer,  and  stir  in  a  great  lump  of  butter.  Five 
minutes  later,  pour  out  and  serve. 

Succotash. 

This  is  made  of  green  corn  and  Lima  beans,  although  you 
can  substitute  for  the  latter  string  or  butter  beans.    Have  a 
third  more  corn  than  beans,  when  the  former  has  been  cut 
from  the  cob  and  the  beans  shelled.    Put  into  boiling  water 
enough  to  cover  them— no  more-and  stew  gently  together 
until  tender— perhaps  half  an  hour— stirring  now  and  then. 
Pour  off  nearly  all  the  water,  and  add  a  large  cupful  of  milk. 
Stew  in  this,  watching  to  prevent  burning,  for  an  hour;  then 
stir  in  a  great  lump  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  wet  with 
cold  milk,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.    Boil  up  once,  and  pour 
into  a  deep  vegetable-dish.    If  you  use  string-beans,  string 
and  cut  up  into  half-inch  lengths  before  cooking. 
J 


146 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Green  Corn  Pudding.  | 

1  quart  milk. 
5  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
I  white  sugar. 

I  dozen  ears  of  corn — large  ones. 

Grate  the  corn  from  the  cob ;  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of 
the  eggs  separately.  Put  the  corn  and  yolks  together,  stir 
hard,  and  add  the  butter ;  then  the  milk  gradually,  beating  all 
the  while ;  next  the  sugar  and  a  little  salt ;  lastly  the  whites. 
Bake  slowly  at  first,  covering  the  dish,  for  an  hour.  Remove 
the  cover,  and  brown  finely. 

This  is  a  most  delicious  accompaniment  to  a  meat  course, 
when  properly  mixed  and  baked.  Warm  up  what  is  left  from 
dinner  for  breakfast,  by  moistening  it  with  a  little  warm  milk 
and  stirring  in  a  saucepan  until  smoking  hot.  You  can  make 
this  pudding  from  canned  corn  in  winter. 

Green  Corn  Fritters  or  Cakes.  % 
Grate  the  corn,  and  allow  an  egg  and  a  half  for  every  cupful, 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  milk  or  cream.  Beat  the  eggs  well, 
add  the  corn  by  degrees,  beating  very  hard  ;  salt  to  taste  ;  put 
a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  to  every  pint  of  corn  ;  stir  in 
the  milk,  and  thicken  with  just  enough  flour  to  hold  them 
together — say  a  tablespoonful  for  every  two  eggs.  You  may 
fry  in  hot  lard,  as  you  would  fritters,  but  a  better  plan  is  to 
cook  upon  a  griddle,  like  batter  cakes.  Test  a  little  first,  to 
see  that  it  is  of  the  right  consistency. 

Eaten  at  dinner  or  breakfast,  these  always  meet  with  a 
cordial  welcome. 

Stewed  Green  Corn. 
Cut  from  the  cob,  and  ^tew  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling  water. 
Turn  off  most  of  this,  cover  with  cold  milk,  and  stew  until 
very  tender,  .^adding,  before  you  take  it  up,  a  large  lump  of 


GREEN  CORN. 


147 


butter  cut  into  bits  and  rolled  in  flour.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.    Boil  five  minutes,  and  serve. 

Cold  corn  left  from  dinner  should  be  cut  from  the  cob  and 
stewed  a  few  minutes  in  a  little  milk,  adding  seasoning  as 
above.  Or,  you  can  mix  it  with  chopped  cold  potatoes — Irish 
or  sweet ;  heat  a  piece  of  butter  or  beef-dripping  in  a  frying- 
pan,  and  stir  in  the  mixture  until  smoking  hot.  Never  throw 
away  a  good  ear  of  sweet  corn. 

Roasted  Green  Corn. 
Turn  back  the  husks  upon  the  stalk,  pick  off  the  silk, 
recover  with  the  husks  closely  as  possible,  and  roast  in  the  hot 
ashes  of  a  wood-fire.    Eat  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  out  of 
doors,  in  the  forest,  or  on  the  beach. 

Salisfy  or  Oyster-Plant.  ( Shewed.)  I 
Scrape  the  roots,  dropping  each  into  cold  water  as  soon  as 
it  is  cleansed.  Exposure  to  the  air  blackens  them.  Cut  in 
pieces  an  inch  long,  put  into  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  enough 
to  cover  them,  and  stew  until  tender.  Turn  off  nearly  all  the 
water,  and  add  a  cupful  of  cold  milk.  Stew  ten  minutes  after 
this  begins  to  boil ;  put  in  a  great  lump  of  butter,  cut  into 
bits,  and  rolled  in  flour ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  up 
once,  and  serve.  The  taste  is  curiously  like  that  of  stewed 
oysters. 

Fried  Egg- Plant.  | 
Shce  the  egg-plant  at  least  half  an  inch  thick ;  pare  each 
piece  carefully,  and  lay  in  salt  and  water,  putting  a  plate  upon 
the  topmost  to  keep  it  under  the  brine,  and  let  them  alone  for 
an  hour  or  more.  Wipe  each  slice,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in 
cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  until  well  done  and  nicely 
browned. 

Boiled  Carrots. 
Wash  and  scrape  well,  and  lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour. 


148 


COMMON  SENSE. 


If  large,  split  them,  or  cut  across  in  two  or  three  pieces.  Put 
into  boiling  water,  slightly  salted,  and  boil  until  tender.  Large 
ones  will  require  nearly  an  hour  and  a  half  to  cook.  Young 
carrots  should  only  be  washed  before  they  are  boiled,  and  the 
skin  be  rubbed  off  with  a  cloth  afterward.  Butter  well,  and 
serve  hot. 

Stewed  Carrots. 

Scrape,  and  lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour  or  more.  Boil 
whole  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  drain,  and  cut  into  round 
slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Put  on  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  teacupful  of  broth — veal,  or  beef,  or  mutton ;  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  and  stew  gently  half  an  hour.  Just  before  they 
are  done,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  cream  or  milk  and  a  good 
lump  of  butter  cut  into  bits,  and  rolled  in  flour.  Boil  up  and 
serve. 

If  you  have  not  the  broth,  use  water,  and  put  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  when  the  saucepan  is  set  on  the  fire,  in 
addition  to  the  quantity  I  have  specified. 

Mashed  Carrots. 
Wash,  scrape,  and  lay  in  cold  water  a  while.  Boil  very  tender 
in  hot  water,  slightly  salted.  Drain  and  mash  with  a  beetle  or 
wooden  spoon,  working  in  a  large  spoonful  of  butter,  with 
pepper  and  salt.  A  little  cream  will  improve  them.  Mound 
as  you  would  mashed  potatoes,  and  stamp  a  figure  upon  theixx, 
or  mark  in  squares  with  a  knife. 

French,  or  String  or  ''Snap"  Beans. 
Break  off  the  tops  and  bottoms  and  "string"  carefully. 
Then  pare  both  edges  with  a  sharp  knife,  to  be  certain  that  no 
remnant  of  the  tough  fibre  remains.  Not  one  cook  in  a 
hundred  performs  this  duty  as  deftly  and  thoroughly  as  it 
should  be  done.  I  have  heard  several  gentlemen  say  that  they 
could  always  tell,  after  the  first  mouthful,  whether  the  mistress 
or  the  hireling  had  '•  strung  "  the  beans.    It  is  a  tedious  and 


BEANS. 


149 


disagreeable  business,  this  pulling  bits  of  woody  thread  out  of 
one's  mouth  when  he  wants  to  enjoy  his  dinner. 

Cut  the  beans  thus  cleared  of  their  troublesome  attaches,  in 
pieces  an  inch  long,  and  lay  in  cold  water  with  a  little  salt  for 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Drain  them,  and  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water.  Boil  quickly,  twenty  minutes  if  well- 
grown — less  if  small — at  any  rate,  until  tender.  Drain  in  a 
cullender  until  the  water  ceases  to  drip  from  them.  Dish  with 
a  great  spoonful  of  butter  stirred  in. 

To  my  taste,  beans  need  to  have  a  bit  of  bacon  boiled  with 
them — whole,  or  chopped  into  bits  that  dissolve  in  the  boiling. 
It  mellows  the  rank  taste  you  seek  to  remove  by  boiling. 

Lima  and  Butter  Beans. 

Shell  into  cold  water;  let  them  lie  awhile;  put  into  a  pot 
with  plenty  of  boiling  water  and  a  little  salt,  and  cook  fast 
until  tender.  Large  ones  sometimes  require  nearly  an  hour's 
boilmg.  The  average  time  is  forty  minutes.  Drain  and  butter 
well  when  dished,  peppering  to  taste. 

Kidney  and  other  Small  Beans. 

Shell  into  cold  water,  and  cook  in  boiling  until  tender.  A 
small  piece  of  fat  bacon  boiled  with  them  is  an  advantage  to 
nearly  all.    If  you  do  this,  do  not  salt  them. 

Dried  Beans. 

Wash  and  soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  water,  changing  it 
several  times  lor  warmer.  If  this  is  done  they  will  require  but 
two  hours'  boiling.  Drain  very  thoroughly,  pressing  them 
firmly,  but  lightly,  in  the  cullender  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  mix 
in  a  great  lump  of  butter  when  they  are  dished. 

Boiled  Beets. 
Wash,  but  do  not  touch  with  a  knife  before  they  are  boiled. 
If  cut  while  raw,  they  bleed  themselves  pale  in  the  hot  water. 


150 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Boil  until  tender—  if  full-grown  at  least  two  hours.  When  done, 
rub  off  the  skins,  slice  round  if  large,  split  if  young,  and  butter 
well  in  the  dish.    Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

A  nice  way  is  to  slice  them  upon  a  hot  dish,  mix  a  great 
spoonful  of  melted  butter  with  four  or  five  of  vinegar,  pepper 
and  salt,  heat  to  boiling,  and  pour  over  the  beets. 

Instead  of  consigning  the  cold  ones  "  left  over  "  to  the 
swill  pail,  pour  cold  vinegar  upon  them  and  use  as  pickles 
with  cold  or  roast  meat. 

Stewed  Beets. 

Boil  young,  sweet  beets,  until  nearly  done ;  skin  and  slice 
them.  Pat  into  a  saucepan  with  a  minced  shallot  and  parsley, 
two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  a  little  quantity  of  vinegar, 
some  salt  and  pepper.  Set  on  the  fire  and  simmer  twenty 
minutes,  shaking  the  saucepan  now  and  then.  Serve  with  the 
gravy  poured  over  them. 

Boiled  Parsnips. 

If  young,  scrape  before  cooking.  If  old,  pare  carefully,  and 
if  large,  split.  Put  them  into  boiling  water,  salted,  and  boil, 
if  small  and  tender,  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  if 
full-grown,  more  than  an  hour.  When  tender,  drain  and  slice 
lengthwise,  buttering  well  when  you  dish. 

Fried  Parsnips.  I 

Boil  until  tender,  scrape  off  the  skin,  and  cut  in  thick 
lengthwise  slices.  Dredge  with  flour  and  fry  in  hot  dripping 
or  lard,  turning  when  one  side  is  browned.  Drain  off  every 
drop  of  fat ;  pepper  and  serve  hot. 

Parsnip  Fritters.  J 
Boil  tender,  mash  smooth  and  fine,  picking  out  the  woody 
bits.    For  three  large  parsnips  allow  two  eggs,  one  cup  rich 
milk,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  three 


PARSNIPS.  1-^^ 


tablespoonfuls  flour.  Beat  the  egg  light,  stir  in  the  mashed 
parsnips,  beating  hard ;  then  the  butter  and  salt,  next  the 
milk,  lastly  the  salt.    Fry  as  fritters,  or  as  griddle-cakes. 

Mashed  Parsnips. 
Boil  and  scrape  them,  mash  smooth  with  the  back  of  a 
wooden  spoon,  or  a  potato-beetle,  picking  out  the  fibres ;  mix 
in  three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  great  spoonful  of  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Heat  to  boiling  in  a  saucepan,  and 
serve.    Heap  in  a  mound  as  you  would  potato  cooked  m  the 

same  way.  _ 

Buttered  Parsnips. 

Boil  tender  and  scrape.  Slice  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick 
lengthwise.  :^ut  into  a  saucepan  with  three  tablespoonfuls 
melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley. 
Shake  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  boils.  Lay  the  parsnips 
in  order  upon  a  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  them,  and  garnish 
with  parsley.  It  is  a  pleasant  addition  to  this  dish  to  stir  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  cream  into  the  sauce  after  the  parsnips  are 
taken  out ;  boil  up,  and  pour  upon  them. 

Artichokes. 

Strip  off  the  outer  leaves,  and  cut  the  stalks  close  to  the 
bottom.  Wash  well  and  lay  in  cold  water  two  hours.  Immerse 
in  boiling  water,  the  stalk-ends  uppermost,  with  an  inverted 
plate  upon  them  to  keep  them  down.  Boil  an  hour  and  a 
half,  or  until  very  tender.  Arrange  in  circles  upon  a  dish, 
the  tops  up,  and  pour  drawn  butter  over  them. 

Summer  Squash  or  Cymbling. 
There  are  many  varieties  of  this  vegetable,  but  the  general 
rules  for  cooking  them  are  the  same.  Unless  they  are  ex- 
tremely tender,  it  is  best  to  pare  them,  cutting  away  as  little 
as  possible  besides  the  hard  outer  rind.  Take  out  the  seeds, 
when  you  have  quartered  them,  and  lay  the  pieces  in  cold 


152 


COMMON  SENSE. 


water.  Boil  until  tender  throughout.  Drain  well,  pressing 
out  all  the  water ;  mash  soft  and  smooth,  seasoning  with  but- 
ter, pepper,  and  salt.  Do  this  quickly,  that  you  may  serve 
up  hot. 

Winter  Squash. 

Pare,  take  out  the  seeds,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  stew 
until  soft  and  tender.  Drain,  press  well,  to  rid  it  of  all  the 
water,  and  mash  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  It  will  take 
much  longer  to  cook  than  the  summer  squash,  and  before  you 
put  it  into  hot  water,  should  lie  in  cold  at  least  two  hours. 

Stewed  Pumpkin. 

Cut  in  two,  extract  the  seeds,  slice,  and  pare.  Cover  with 
cold  water  for  an  hour ;  put  over  the  fire  in  a  pot  of  boiHng 
water  and  stew  gently,  stirring  often,  until  it  breaks  to  pieces. 
Drain  and  squeeze,  rub  through  a  cullender,  then  return  to  the 
saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper,  aud  salt  to 
taste.  Stir  rapidly  from  the  bottom  until  very  hot,  when  dish, 
rounding  into  a  mound,  with  "  dabs"  of  pepper  on  the  top. 

Baked  Pumpkin. 

Choose  the  richest  pumpkin  you  can  find ;  take  out  the 
seeds,  cut  in  quarters  or  eighths,  pare,  and  slice  lengthwise 
half  an  inch  thick.  Arrange  in  layers — not  more  than  two  or 
three  slices  deep—in  a  shallow  but  broad  baking-dish.  Put  a 
very  Httle  water  in  the  bottom,  and  bake  very  slowly  until  not 
only  done,  but  dry.  It  requires  a  long  time,  for  the  heat 
should  be  gentle.  Butter  each  strip  on  both  sides  when  you 
dish,  and  eat  hot  with  bread  and  butter  for  tea. 

I  have  been  assured,  by  people  who  have  tried  it,  that  this  is 
a  palatable  dish  to  those  who  are  fond  of  the  flavor  of  pumpkin. 
I  insert  it  here  upon  their  recommendation — not  my  own. 

Poke  Stalks. 

When  the  young  stalks  are  not  larger  than  a  man's  httle 


'A 


MUSHROOMS. 


158 


fincrer,  and  show  only  a  tuft  of  leaves  at  top  a  few  inches  above 
gro^'und,  is  the  time  to  gather  them.  They  are  unfit  for  table 
use  when  larger  and  older.  Scrape  the  stalks,  but  do  not  cut 
off  the  leaves.  Lay  in  cold  water,  with  a  little  salt,  for  two 
hours  Tie  in  bundles,  as  you  do  asparagus,  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiUng  water,  and  cook  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Lay  buttered  toast  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  untie  the  bundles, 
and  pile  the  poke  evenly  upon  it,  buttering  very  well,  and 
sprinkling  with  pepper  and  salt.  This  is  a  tolerable  substitute 
for  asparagus. 

Mushrooms. 
Have  nothing  to  do  with  them  until  you  are  an 
excellent  judge  between  the  true  and  false.    That  sounds  some- 
what like  the  advice  of  the  careful  mother  to  her  son,  touchmg 
the  wisdom  of  never  going  near  the  water  until  he  learned  how 
to  swim-but  the  caution  can  hardly  be  stated  too  strongly. 
Not  being  ambitious  of  martyrdom,  even  in  the  cause  of 
gastronomical  enterprise,  especially  if  the  instrument  is  to  be 
a  contemptible,  rank-smelling  fungus,  I  never  eat  or  cook 
mushrooms ;  but  I  learned,  years  ago,  in  hiU-side  rambles,  how 
to  distinguish  the  real  from  the  spurious  article.    Shun  low, 
damp,  shady  spots  in  your  quest.    The  good  mushrooms  are 
mostly  plenty  in  August  and  September,  and  sprmg  up  m  the 
open,  sunny  fields  or  commons,  after  low-lying  fogs  or  soaking 
dews'.    The  top  is  a  dirty  white,— /^r  co7nplaisance,  pearl-color, 
—the  underside  pink  or  salmon,  changing  to  russet  or  brown 
soon  after  they  are  gathered.    The  poisonous  sport  all  colors, 
and  are  usually  far  prettier  than  their  virtuous  kmdred.  Those 
which  are  dead  white  above  and  below,  as  well  as  the  stalk  are 
also  to  be  let  alone. 

Cook  a  peeled  white  onion  in  the  pot  with  your  mushrooms. 
If  it  turn  black,  throw  all  away,  and  be  properly  thankful  for 
your  escape.  It  is  also  deemed  safe  to  reject  the  mess  of  wild 
pottage,  if,  in  stirring  them,  your  silver  spoon  should  blacken. 
But  I  certainly  once  knew  a  lady  who  did  not  discover  until 


154 


COMMON  SENSE. 


hers  was  eaten  and  partially  digested,  that  the  silver  had 
come  to  grief  in  the  discharge  of  duty.  It  was  very  dark 
and  required  a  deal  of  rubbing  to  restore  cleanliness  and 
polish  ;  but  the  poison— if  death  were,  indeed,  in  the  pot- 
was  slow  in  its  effects,  since  she  lived  many  years  after  the 
experiment.  It  is  as  well,  perhaps,  though,  not  to  repeat  it 
too  often. 

To  re-capitulate.— The  eatable  ones  are  round  when  they 
first  show  their  heads  in  a  critical  world.  As  they  grow  the 
lower  part  unfolds  and  reveals  a  lining  of  salmon  fringe,  while 
the  stalk  and  top  are  dirty  white.  When  the  mushroom  is 
more  than  twenty-four  hours  old,  or  within  a  few  hours  after 
It  IS  gathered,  the  salmon  changes  to  brown.  The  skin  can 
also  be  more  easily  peeled  from  the  edges  than  in  the  spuri- 
ous kinds. 

Stewed  Mushrooms. 
Choose  button  mushrooms  of  uniform  size.  Wipe  clean 
and  white  with  a  wet  flannel  cloth,  and  cut  off  the  stalks.  Put 
mto  a  porcelain  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  stew 
very  gently  fifteen  minutes.  Salt  to  taste  ;  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  cream  whipped  up  with  an  egg,  stir  two  minutes  without 
letting  it  boil,  and  serve. 

Baked  Mushrooms. 
Take  fresh  ones,— the  size  is  not  very  important,— cut  off 
nearly  all  the  stalks,  and  wipe  off  the  skin  with  wet  flannel. 
Arrange  neatly  in  a  pie  dish,  pepper  and  salt,  sprinkle  a  little 
mace  among  them,  and  lay  a  bit  of  butter  upon  each.  Bake 
about  half  an  hour,  basting  now  and  then  with  butter  and 
water,  that  they  may  not  be  too  dry.  Serve  in  the  dish  in 
which  they  were  baked,  with  maitre  hotel  ssiMce  poured  over 
them. 

Broiled  Mushrooms. 
Peel  the  finest  and  freshest  you  can  get,  score  the  under 


CELERY. 


side,  and  cut  the  stems  dose.  Put  into  a  deep  d,sh  and 
anoint  well,  once  and  again,  with  melted  butter.  Salt  and 
pepper,  and  let  them  lie  in  the  butter  an  hour  and  a  half 
Then  broil  over  a  clear,  hot  fire,  using  an  oyster-gnd.ron,  and 
turning  it  over  as  one  side  browns.  Serve  hot,  well  buttered, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice  upon 
each. 

Celery. 

Wash  and  scrape  the  stalks  when  you  have  cut  off  the  roots. 
Cut  off  the  green  leaves  and  reject  the  greenest,  toughest 
stalks  Retain  the  blanched  leaves  that  grow  nearest  the 
heart  Keep  in  cold  water  until  you  send  to  the  table  Serve 
in  a  celery  glass,  and  let  each  guest  di,.  in  salt  for  himself 
(See  Celery  Salad.) 

Radishes. 

A  friend  of  mine,  after  many  and  woful  trials  with  "  the 
greatest  plague  of  life,"  engaged  a  supercilious  young  lady 
who  "only  hired  out  in  the  best  of  families  as  a  professed 
cook  "    She  arrived  in  the  afternoon,  and  was  told  that  tea 
would  be  a  simple  affair-bread  and  butter,  cold  meat,  cake, 
and  a  dish  of  radishes,  which  were  brought  in  from  the  garden 
as  the  order  was  given.    The  lady  was  summoned  to  the 
parlor  at  that  moment,  and  remarked  in  leaving-"  You  can 
prepare  those  now,  Bridget."    Awhile  later  she  peeped  into 
the  kitchen,  attracted  by  the  odor  of  hot  fat.    The  frying-pan 
hissed  on  the  fire,  the  contents  were  half  a  pound  of  butter 
and  the  "  professional"  stood  at  the  table  with  a  radish 
topped  and  tailed  in  one  hand,  a  knife  in  the  other.    "  Im 
alad  to  see  ye,"  thus  she  greeted  the  intruder.    "  Is  it  pa  ed 
or<.«paled  ve'll  have  them  radishes?    Some  of  the  quality 
likes  'em  fried  wid  the  skins  on— some  widout.    I  thought 
I'd  wait  and  ask  yerself " 

My  readers  can  exercise  their  own  choice  m  the  matter  ot 
peeling,  putting  the  frying-pan  out  of  the  question.  Wash 


156 


COMMON  SENSE. 


and  lay  them  in  ice-water  so  soon  as  they  are  gathered.  Cut 
ofif  the  tops  when  your  breakfast  or  supper  is  ready,  leaving 
about  an  inch  of  the  stalks  on;  scrape  off  the  skin  if  you 
choose,  but  the  red  ones  are  prettier  if  you  do  not;  arrange 
in  a  tall  glass  or  a  round  glass  saucer,  the  stalks  outside,  the 
points  meeting  in  the  centre;  lay  cracked  ice  among  them  and 
send  to  table.    Scrape  and  quarter  the  large  white  ones. 

Good  radishes  are  crisp  to  the  teeth,  look  cool,  and  taste 
hot. 

Boiled  Hominy. 

The  large  kind,  made  of  cracked,  not  ground  corn,  is 
erroneously  termed  "samp"  by  Northern  grocers.  This  is 
the  Indian  name  for  the  fine  grained.  To  avoid  confusion, 
we  will  call  the  one  large,  the  other  small.  Soak  the  large 
over  night  in  cold  water.  Next  day  put  it  mto  a  pot  with  at 
least  two  quarts  of  water  to  a  quart  of  the  hominy,  and  boil 
slowly  three  hours,  or  until  it  is  soft.  Drain  in  a  cullender, 
heap  in  a  root-dish,  and  stir  in  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Soak  the  small  hominy  in  the  same  way,  and  boil  in  as 
much  water,  slowly,  stirring  very  often,  almost  constantly  at 
the  last.  It  should  be  as  th\8k  as  mush,  and  is  generally  eaten 
at  breakfast  with  sugar,  cream,  and  nutmeg.  It  is  a  good  and 
exceedingly  wholesome  dish,  especially  for  children.  The 
water  in  which  it  is  boiled  should  be  slightly  salt.  If  soaked 
in  warm  water,  and  the  same  be  changed  once  or  twice  for 
warmer,  it  will  boil  soft  in  an  hour.    Boil  in  the  last  water. 

Fried  Hominy. 

If  large,  put  a  good  lump  of  butter  or  dripping  in  the 
frying-pan  and  heat.  Turn  in  some  cold  boiled  hominy,  and 
cook  until  the  under-side  is  browned.  Place  a  dish  upside- 
down  on  the  frying-pan  and  upset  the  latter,  that  the  brown 
crust  may  be  uppermost. 

Eat  with  meat. 

Cut  the  small  hominy  in  slices  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drip- 


CROQUETTES. 


157 


pings.  Or,  moisten  to  a  soft  paste  with  milk  ;  beat  m  some 
melted  butter,  bmd  with  a  beaten  egg,  form  into  round  cakes 
with  your  hands,  dredge  with  flour  and  fry  a  hght  brown. 

Hominy  Croquettes,  t 

To  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  hominy  (small-grained)  add  a 
tablespoonful  melted  butter  and  stir  hard,  moistening,  by  de- 
arees  with  a  cupful  of  milk,  beating  to  a  soft  hght  paste.  Put 
tn  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  and  lastly,  a  well-beaten  egg. 
Roll  into  oval  balls  with  floured  hands,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then 
cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Very  good  ! 

Baked  Hominy.  | 
To  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  hominy  (small  kind)  allow  two 
cups  of  milk,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of 
white  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  three  eggs.    Beat  the  eggs  very 
li^ht,  yolks  and  whites  separately.    Work  the  yolks  first  into 
the  hominy,  alternately   with   the   melted  butter.  When 
thorouphly  mixed,  put  m  sugar  and  salt,  and  go  on  beating 
wliile  you  soften  the  batter  gradually  with  the  milk.    Be  care- 
ful to  leave  no  lumps  in  the  hominy.    Lastly  stir  m  the  whites, 
and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  until  light,  firm,  and  deli- 
cately browned.  ,  r  -i 

This  can  be  eaten  as  a  dessert,  but  it  is  a  delightful  vege- 
ta!)le,and  the  best  substitute  that  can  be  devised  for  green  corn 
pudding. 

Rice  Croquettes.  I 
Half  a  cup  of  rice. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

A  httle  grated  lemon-peel. 

I  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

A  saltspoonful  salt. 


158 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Soak  the  rice  three  hours  in  warm  water  enough  to  cover  it. 
Drain  almost  dry,  and  pour  in  the  milk.  Stew  in  a  ferina- 
kettle,  or  one  saucepan  set  in  another  of  hot  water,  until  the 
rice  is  very  tender.  Add  the  sugar,  butter,  and  salt,  and  sim- 
mer ten  minutes.  Whisk  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  add 
cautiously,  taking  the  saucepan  from  the  fire  while  you  whip 
them  into  the  mixture.  Return  to  the  range  or  stove,  and  stir 
while  they  thicken,  not  allowing  them  to  boil.  Remove  the 
saucepan,  and  add  the  grated  lemon-peel ;  then  turn  out  upon 
a  well-greased  dish  to  cool.  When  cold  and  stiff,  flour  your 
hands  and  roll  into  oval  or  pear-shaped  balls ;  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  fine  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in  nice  lard. 

Boiled  Rice. 

Pick  over  carefully  and  wash  in  two  waters,  letting  it  stand 
in  the  last  until  you  are  ready  to  boil.  Have  ready  some 
boiling  water  slightly  salted,  and  put  in  the  rice.  Boil  it  just 
twenty  minutes,  and  do  not  put  a  spoon  in  it,  but  shake  up 
hard  and  often,  holding  the  cover  on  with  the  other  hand. 
When  done,  drain  off  the  water,  and  set  the  sauce-pan  un- 
covered upon  the  range,  where  the  rice  will  dry,  not  burn,  for 
five  minutes. 

Eat  with  boiled  mutton  or  fowls. 

Baked  Macaroni.  % 
Break  half  a  pound  of  pipe  macaroni  in  pieces  an  inch  long 
and  put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  slightly  salted.  Stew 
gently  twenty  minutes.  It  should  be  soft,  but  not  broken  or 
split.  Drain  well  and  put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered 
pie  or  pudding-dish ;  upon  this  grate  some  mild,  rich  cheese, 
and  scatter  over  it  some  bits  of  butter.  Spread  upon  the  cheese 
more  macaroni,  and  fill  the  dish  in  this  order,  having  macaroni 
at  the  top,  battered  well,  without  the  cheese.  Add  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk,  and  a  very  little  salt.  Bake  covered 
half  an  hour,  then  brown  nicely,  and  serve  in  the  bake-dish. 


EGGS. 


159 


Macaroni  a  la  Cr^me.  | 

Cook  the  macaroni  ten  minutes  in  boiling  water.  Drain 
this  off,  and  add  a  cupful  of  milk,  with  a  little  salt.  Stew 
until  tender.  In  another  saucepan  beat  a  cun  of  milk  to  boil- 
ing, thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  and  lastly,  a  beaten  egg.  When  this  thickens,  pour 
over  the  macaroni  after  it  is  dished. 

This  is  a  simple  and  good  dessert,  eaten  with  butter,  sugar, 
and  nutmeg,  or  sweet  sauce.  If  set  on  with  meat,  grate  cheese 
thickly  over  it,  or  send  around  a  saucer  of  grated  cheese 
with  it. 


EGGS. 

To  guess  (I  do  not  say  determine)  whether  an  egg  is  good, 
shut  one  eye;  frame  the  egg  in  the  hollow  of  the  hand,  tele- 
scope-wise, and  look  at  the  sun  through  it  with  the  open  eye. 
If  you  can  distinctly  trace  the  outline  of  the  yolk  and  the  white 
looks  clear  aroun^  it,  the  chances  are  in  favor  of  the  egg  and 
the  buyer.  Or,  shake  it  gently  at  your  ear.  If  addled,  it  will 
gurgle  like  water;  if  there  is  a  chicken  inside,  you  may  dis- 
guish  a  slight  "  thud  "  against  the  sides  of  the  egg.  Or,  still 
again  you  may  try  eggs  from  your  own  poultry-yard  by  putting 
them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water.  The  freshest  sink  first.  Those 
that  float  are  questionable — generally  worse. 

The  best  plan  is  to  break  them.  In  making  cake,  or  any- 
thing that  requires  more  than  one,  break  each  over  a  saucer, 
that  it  may  be  alone  in  its  condemnation,  if  bad.  Reject 
doubtful  ones  without  hesitation.  Yield  implicit  trust,  or  none 
at  all. 

Keep  eggs  in  a  cool,  not  cold  place.    Pack  in  bran  or  salt, 
with  the  small  end  downward,  if  you  wish  to  use  within  two  or 
fjjthree  weeks ;  and  furthermore,  take  the  precaution  to  grease 
hem  well  with  linseed  oil,  or  wash  them  over  with  a  weak 


160 


COMMON  SENSE. 


solution  of  gum  tragacanth  or  varnish.  This  excludes  the  air. 
Another  way  is  to  make  some  pretty  strong  lime-water,  allow- 
ing a  pound  of  lime  to  a  gallon  of  boiling  water.  When  per- 
fectly cold,  fill  a  large  jar  with  it  in  which  you  have  packed 
the  eggs,  small  end  downward ;  lay  a  light  saucer  upon  the 
top  to  keep  them  under  water,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 
Renew  the  lime-water  every  three  weeks.  You  may  add  an 
ounce  of  saltpetre  to  it. 

Eggs  for  boiling  may  be  "  canned  "  as  follows  :  So  soon  as 
they  are  brought  in  from  the  nests,  put  two  or  three  dozen  at 
a  time  in  a  deep  pan  ;  pour  scalding  water  over  them  ;  let  it 
stand  thirty  seconds,  and  turn  it  all  off.  Cover  immediately 
with  more  scalding  water,  and  repeat  the  process  yet  the  third 
time.  Wipe  dry,  and  pack  in  bran  or  salt  when  they  cool. 
This  hardens  the  albumen  into  an  air-tight  case  for  the  yolk. 
Of  course,  you  cannot  use  these  eggs  for  cake  or  syllabubs,  or 
anything  that  is  prepared  with  whipped  eggs.  Pack  with  the 
small  end  down. 

Boiled  Eggs. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon,  not 
to  break  or  crack  them.  Only  a  slovenly  cook,  or  a  careless 
one,  drops  them  in  with  her  fingers.  Boil  steadily  three 
minutes,  if  you  want  them  soft — ten,  if  hard. 

Another  way  is  to  put  them  on  in  cold  water,  and  let  it  come 
to  a  boil,  which  will  be  in  ten  minutes.  The  inside,  white  and 
yoke,  will  be  then  of  the  consistency  of  custard.  Many  gour- 
mands like  them  best  thus.  Still  another  is  to  put  them  in  one 
of  the  silver  egg-boilers  used  on  the  breakfast-table  (a  covered 
bowl  will  do  as  well)  ;  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  and  let 
hem  stand  three  minutes.  Pour  this  off,  and  refill  with  more, 
also  boiling  hot,  and  leave  them  in  it  five  minutes  longer. 
Wrap  in  a  napkin  in  a  deep  dish,  if  you  have  not  a  regular 
egg-dish. 

Dropped  or  Poached  Eggs.  ^ 
Strain  some  boiling  water  into  a  frying-pan,  which  must  also 


EGGS. 


161 


be  perfectly  clean.  The  least  impurity  will  mar  the  whiteness 
fof  the  eggs.  When  the  water  boils,  break  the  eggs  separately 
■into  a  saucer.  Take  the  frying-pan  off,  and  slip  the  eggs,  one 
;by  one,  carefully  upon  the  surface.  When  all  are  in,  put  back 
.over  the  fire  and  boil  gently  three  minutes.  Take  out  with  a 
perforated  skimmer,  drain,  and  lay  upon  slices  of  buttered 
itoast  in  a  hot  dish.  Garnish  with  parsley,  and  dust  with  pep- 
:per  and  salt. 

Poached  Eggs  a  la  Creme.  J 
Nearly  fill  a  clean  frying-pan  with  strained  water  boiling- 
hot  ;  strain  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  through  double  muslin, 
and  add  to  the  water  with  a  little  salt.    Slip  your  eggs  from 
the  saucer  upon  the  top  of  the  water  (first  taking  the  pan  from 
the  fire).    Boil  three  minutes  and  a  half,  drain,  and  lay  on  but- 
tered toast  in  a  hot  dish.    Turn  the  water  from  the  pan  and 
pour  in  half  a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk.    If  you  use  the  latter,' 
thicken  with  a  very  little  corn-starch.    Let  it  heat  to  a  boil, 
stirring  to  prevent  burning,  and  add  a  great  spoonful  of  butter, 
some  pepper  and  salt.    Boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the  eggs. 
A  better  way  still  is  to  heat  the  milk  in  a  separate  saucepan, 
that  the  eggs  may  not  have  to  stand.    A  little  broth  improves 
the  sauce. 

Ham  and  Eggs. 

Fry  the  eggs  in  a  little  very  nice  salted  lard;  drain  off  every 
drop  of  grease,  and  lay  them  upon  a  hot  dish,  with  neat  slices 
of  fried  ham  around  the  edges,  half  the  size  of  the  slice  at  first 
carved  from  the  ham.  Trim  off  the  rough  edges  of  the  eggs, 
and  cut  the  ham  evenly  in  oblong  pieces  before  dishing, 
Garnish  with  parsley. 

Fried  Eggs. 

Melt  some  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  it  hisses  drop 
in  the  eggs  carefully.    Fry  three  minutes ;  dust  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  transfer  to  a  hot  dish, 
K 


162 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Fricasseed  Eggs.  X 

Boil  the  eggs  hard,  cut  in  half  crosswise,  and  take  out  the 
yolks.  Chop  these  fine,  or  rub  to  a  paste,  with  a  little  ground 
tongue  or  ham  or  cold  fowl,  some  minced  parsley,  some  melted 
butter,  and  a  very  little  made  mustard.  Work  well  together 
and  fill  the  whites  with  it,  setting  them  close  together  in  a  deep 
covered  dish,  the  open  ends  up.  Have  ready  some  veal  gravy 
or  chicken  broth;  heat  to  boiling  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
half  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  salt  pepper,  and  lastly 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  to  a  cup  of  broth.  Boil  up ; 
pour  smoking  hot  over  the  eggs,  let  them  stand  five  minutes, 
closely  covered,  and  send  to  table 

This  is  not  an  expensive  dish.  Eggs  are  always  a  cheaper 
breakfast-dish  for  a  small  family  than  meat,  even  at  fifty  cents 
a  dozen.  Six  will  make  a  nice  quantity  of  the  fricassee,  and 
it  is  a  delicious  relish.  Always  drop  hard-boiled  eggs  into  cold 
water  as  soon  as  they  are  done,  to  prevent  the  yolks  from  turn- 
ing black. 

Breaded  Eggs.  X 
Boil  hard,  and  cut  in  round  thick  sHces.  Pepper  and  salt ; 
dip  each  in  beaten  raw  egg,  then  in  fine  bread-crumbs  or 
powdered  cracker,  and  fry  in  nice  dripping  or  butter,  hissing 
hot.  Drain  off  every  drop  of  grease,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish 
for  breakfast,  with  sauce,  like  that  for  fricasseed  eggs,  poured 
over  them. 

Scrambled  Eggs.  J 
Put  a  good  piece  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is 
hot  drop  in  the  eggs,  which  should  be  broken  whole  into  a 
bowl.  Stir  in  with  them  a  little  chopped  parsley,  some  pepper 
and  salt,  and  keep  stirring  to  and  fro,  up  and  down,  without 
cessation,  for  three  minutes.  Turn  out  at  once  into  a  hot  dish, 
or  upon  buttered  toast,  and  eat  without  delay. 

Scalloped  Eggs.  I 
Make  a  force-meat  of  chopped  ham — ground  is  better — fine 


EGGS. 


163 


bread-crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  minced  parsley,  and  some 
melted  butter.  Moisten  with  milk  to  a  soft  paste,  and  half 
fill  some  patty-pans  or  scallop-shells  with  the  mixture.  Break 
an  egg  carefully  upon  the  top  of  each,  dust  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  sift  some  very  finely  powdered  cracker  over  all.  Set 
in  the  oven,  and  bake  until  the  eggs  are  well  set — about  eight 
minutes.  Eat  hot.  They  are  very  nice.  You  can  substitute 
ground  tongue  for  the  ham. 

Poached  Eggs,  with  Sauce.  % 

Make  the  sauce  by  putting  half  a  cupful  of  hot  water  in  a 
saucepan,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  veal  or  chicken  broth  (strained),  pepper,  salt,  mace,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  a  Httle  minced  parsley.  Boil 
slowly  ten  minutes,  and  stir  in  a  well-whipped  egg  carefully, 
lest  it  should  curdle.  Have  ready  some  poached  eggs  in  a 
deep  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 

Eqcs  UPON  Toast.  \ 

Put  a  good  lump  of  butter  into  the  frying-pan.  When  it  is 
hot,  stir  in  four  or"  five  well-beaten  eggs,  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  little  parsley.  Stir  and  toss  for  three  minutes.  Have  ready 
to  your  hand  some  slices  of  buttered  toast  (cut  round  with  a 
tin  cake-cutter  before  they  are  toasted) ;  spread  thickly  with 
ground  or  minced  tongue,  chicken,  or  ham.  Heap  the  stirred 
egg  upon  those  in  mounds,  and  set  in  a  hot  dish  garnished 
with  parsley  and  pickled  beets. 

Omelette  (plain).  % 
Beat  six  eggs  very  light,  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  that  will 
stand  alone,  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  thick  batter.  Add  to  the 
yolks  a  small  cupful  of  milk,  pepper  and  salt,  lastly  stir  in  the 
whites  lightly.  Have  ready  in  a  hot  frying-pan  a  good  lump  of 
butter.  When  it  hisses,  pour  in  your  mixture  gently  and  set 
over  a  clear  fire.    It  should  cook  in  ten  minutes  at  most,  Do 


164 


COMMON  SENSE. 


not  stir,  but  contrive,  as  the  eggs  "set,"  to  slip  a  broad-bladed 
knife  under  the  omelette  to  guard  against  burning  at  the  bot- 
tom. The  instant  "  hiss  "  of  the  butter  as  it  flows  to  the 
hottest  part  of  the  pan  will  prove  the  wisdom  and  efficacy  of 
the  precaution.  If  your  oven  is  hot,  you  may  put  the  frying- 
pan  in  it  as  soon  as  the  middle  of  the  omelette  is  set.  When 
done,  lay  a  hot  dish  bottom  upward  on  the  top  of  the  pan, 
and  dexterously  upset  the  latter  to  bring  the  browned  side  of 
the  omelette  uppermost.    Eat  soon,  or  it  will  fall. 

I  know  these  directions  to  be  worthy  of  note.  I  have  never 
seen  lighter  or  better  omelettes  anywhere  than  in  households 
where  these  have  been  the  rule  for  years  in  the  manufacture 
of  this  simple  and  delightful  article  of  food. 

Cauliflower  Omelette. 
Chop  some  cold  cauHflower  very  fine,  and  mix  in  when 
your  omelette  is  ready  to  go  into  the  pan.    Season  highly 
with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt. 

Asparagus  Omelette 
Is  made  of  the  tops  only,  minced  and  seasoned,  and  stirred  in 
as  is  the  cauliflower.     Tomafo  omelette  has  stewed  tomato 
spread  over  the  surface,  and  is  then  doubled  in  half 

Egg-balls  for  Soup.  \ 
Rub  the  yolks  of  three  or  four  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  a  very  little  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  To 
these  add  two  raw  ones,  beaten  light,  and  enough  flour  to  hold 
the  paste  together.  Make  into  balls  with  floured  hands  and 
set  in  a  cool  place  until  just  before  your  soup  comes  off,  when 
put  in  carefully  and  boil  one  minute. 

Omelette  aux  Fines  Herbes. 
After  the  yolks  and  whites  are  mixed  together  with  the 
milk,  stir  in,  with  two  or  three  strokes  of  the  spoon  or  whisk, 


OMELETTES. 


165 


two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  green  thyme,  and 
sweet  marjoram,  with  pepper  and  salt.    Fry  instantly. 

Cheese  Omelette. 
Grate  some  rich  old  cheese,  and  having  mixed  the  ome- 
lette as  usual,  stir  in  the  cheese  with  a  swift  turn  or  two  of 
the  whisk,  and  at  the  same  time  some  chopped  parsley  and 
thyme.  If  you  beat  long  the  cheese  will  separate  the  milk 
from  the  eggs.    Cook  at  once. 

Sweet  Omelettes. 
Omelette  Soufflee — (Fried). 
6  eggs. 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar  (powdered). 

1  teaspoonful  ot  vanilla. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Add  the  sugar  to 
the  yolks,  a  little  at  a  time,  beating  very  thoroughly,  until  they 
are  smooth  and  thick.  •  The  whites  should  stand  alone.  Put 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  heat  to  boiling, 
and  when  you  have  added  the  vanilla  to  the  omelette,  pour  it 
in  and  cook  very  quickly,  as  you  would  a  plain  one.  Slip  the 
knife  frequently  under  it,  to  loosen  from  the  sides  and  bottom. 
It  is  more  apt  to  scorch  than  an  omelette  without  sugar. 
Turn  out  upon  a  very  hot  dish,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  the 
top,  and  serve  instantly,  or  it  will  fall  and  become  heavy. 

Omelette  Soufflee — ( Baked) 

6  eggs. 

6  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar. 
Juice  of  a  lemon  and  half  the  peel,  grated. 
Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately  and  very  well.    Add  to 
the  yolks  by  degrees  the  powdered  sugar,  and  beat  until  it 
ceases  to  froth,  and  is  thick  and  smooth.    The  whites  should 
be  stiff  enough  to  cut  with  a  knife.    Stir  together  lightly  with 


166 


COMMON  SENSE. 


the  seasoning,  pour  into  a  well-buttered  dish,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  five  or  six  minutes.  The  dish  should  be  warmed 
when  it  is  buttered,  not  to  chill  the  eggs.  Send  around  with  a 
spoon,  and  let  each  one  help  himself  before  it  can  fall. 

Apple  Omelette.  J 

6  large  pippins. 

I  tablespoonful  butter. 

3  eggs. 

5  or  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Nutmeg  to  taste. 

I  teaspoonful  rosewater. 
Stew  the  apples,  when  you  have  pared  and  cored  them, 
as  for  apple-sauce.  Beat  them  very  smooth  while  hot,  adding 
the  butter,  sugar  and  nutmeg.  When  perfectly  cold,  put 
with  the  eggs,  which  should  be  whipped  light,  yolks  and 
whites  separately.  Put  in  the  yolks  first,  then  the  rosewater, 
lastly  the  whites,  and  pour  into  a  deep  bake-dish,  which  has 
been  warmed  and  buttered.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
it  is  delicately  browned.  Eat  warm — not  hot — for  tea,  with 
Graham  bread.  It  is  better  for  children — I  say  nothing  of 
their  elders — than  cake  and  preserves. 

Omelette  with  Jelly. 

Currant  or  other  tart  jelly. 
5  eggs. 

4  tablespoonfuls  cream,  or  the  same  of  milk,  thickened 

with  a  teaspoonful  of  rice-flour  or  arrowroot. 
2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 
I  teaspoonful  bitter  almond  or  vanilla  flavoring. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately,  adding  to  the  latter  the 
sugar  and  milk  after  they  are  thick  and  smooth.  Next,  chop 
in  the  seasoning;  lastly,  stir  in  the  whites  with  a  few  swift 
strokes.    Put  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan, 


MILK,  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  ETC.  '  167 


and,  when  it  is  hot,  pour  in  the  omelette.  Spread  upon  it 
when  done,  which  will  be  in  a  very  few  minutes,  some  nice 
jelly.  Take  the  pan  from  the  fire  to  do  this,  spread  quickly, 
slip  your  knife  or  tin  spatula  under  one-half  of  the  omelette, 
and  double  it  over.  Turn  over  on  a  hot  platter,  sift  powder- 
ed sugar  upon  it,  and  eat  at  once. 


MILK,  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  ETC. 
A  cool  cellar  is  the  best  place  in  which  to  keep  milk,  if  you 
have  no  dairy  or  milk-room.    Strain  it  into  broad  shallow 
pans,  which  are  lukewarm  from  recent  scalding.    You  can 
get  them  made  in  one  piece,  with  no  seams  in  which  sour 
cream  or  dirt  may  lurk  unsuspected.    Set  upon  swing  shelves, 
to  avoid  the  possibilities  of  drowned  mice,  and  keep  the 
cellar  dark  to  save  it  from  flies.    In  twelve  hours  skim  for  the 
table,  and,  unless  you  have  need  of  the  milk,  let  it  stand 
twelve  hours  more  for  the  second  rising  of  cream.    Put  this 
into  the  stone  jar  or  crock  in  which  the  cream  is  kept  for 
churning.    Even  in  butter-making,  I  have  found  it  a  good 
plan  to  take  off  at  night  the  cream  clean  from  the  morning 
churning,  instead  of  letting  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  as  is 
the  usual  custom.    The  "  second  rising"  will  repay  one  for 
the  additional  trouble.    Churn  as  soon  as  convenient  after 
the  cream  "  loppers "  or  thickens.    If  it  stand  too  long,  it 
becomes  bitter  or  musty.    The  churn  should  be  well  scalded 
and  aired  between  the  churnings.     Scrupulous  cleanliness 
should  be  the  unbending  rule  of  dairy  arrangements.  All 
strongly-flavored  substances  must  be  kept  from  the  neighbor- 
hood of  milk  and  butter.    They  are  ready  absorbents,  and 
when  they  contract  odor  or  taste,  never  get  rid  of  it.  Have 
earthen  and  tin  milk  vessels,  and  never  allow  them  to  be  put 
to  any  other  use. 

Scald  the  churn,  and  cool  with  ice  or  spring  water ;  pour  in 


-^168 


COMMON  SENSIJ. 


the  thick  cream.    Churn  rather  fast,  until  the  butter-flakes, 
left  by  the  dasher  upon  the  top,  show  that  the  end  to  be 
gained  is  near— then  more  slowly.  The  motion  should  always 
be  regular.    In  warm  weather  pour  a  little  cold  water  into  the 
churn,  should  the  butter  come  slowly.    Take  it  up  with  the 
perforated  dasher,  turning  it  dexterously  just  below  the  surface 
of  the  butter-milk,  to  catch  every  stray  bit.    Have  ready  some 
clean,  very  cold  water,  in  a  deep  wooden  tray,  and  into  this 
plunge  the  dasher  when  you  draw  it  from  the  churn.  The 
butter  will  lioat  off,  leaving  the  dasher  free.    Having  collected 
every  particle,  gather  behind  a  wooden  butter-shovel  and 
dram  off  the  water,  squeezing  and  pressing  the  butter  with 
the  shovel.    Set  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour  to  harden— a 
necessary  measure  in  summer— then  work  and  knead  it  with 
a  wooden  ladle  until  not  another  drop  of  water  exudes,  and 
the  butter  is  like  yellow  marble  in  polish  and  closeness  of 
pores.    When  you  have  worked  out  the  butter-milk,  add  by 
degrees  fine  salt,  in  the  proportion  of  a  dessertspoonful  to 
every  pound  of  butter.     Then,  set  aside  for  some  hours, 
always  in  a  cool  place.    The  last  working  is  a  slight  affair, 
comparatively.    Still  using  the  paddle,  and  never,  from  begin- 
ning to  end  of  the  operation,  touching  with   your  hands, 
mould  into  rolls  or  pound  ''pats."    Mark  with  grooves  or 
checkers  with  the  ladle,  or  stamp  with  a  print.    Wrap  each 
roll  in  a  clean  wet  linen  cloth,  which  has  no  touch  of  soap  or 
starch  about  it,  and  pack  in  a  stone  jar,  sprinkling  a  little  salt 
between  the  layers. 

If  you  wish  to  keep  it  a  long  time,  work  with  especial  care, 
and  pack  down  hard  in  a  perfectly  clean  stone  jar.  Do  not, 
above  all  things,  take  one  that  has  ever  been  used  for  pickles.' 
You  may  not  detect  the  faintest  odor  lingering  about  it,  but 
the  butter  will,  and  absorb  it,  too.  Some  cover  the  butter 
with  strong  brine,  but  a  better  way  is  to  press  a  fine  linen  cloth 
closely  to  the  surface,  and  cover  this  with  a  thick  layer  of 


MILK,  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  ETC. 


169 


clean  fine  salt.  Set  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and  keep  the  cloth 
over  it  all  the  time ;  also  a  tightly-fitting  lid.  When  you  begin 
to  use  it,  take  out  enough  to  last  a  week,  and  re-cover.  If  you 
admit  the  air  every  day,  it  is  apt  to  grow  strong.  A  pretty 
plate  of  butter  for  the  table  is  made  of  balls  half  the  size  of  an 
egg,  rolled  in  the  little  fluted  paddles  sold  for  the  purpose. 

Bonny-Clabber,  or  Loppered  Milk.  J 
Set  a  china  or  glass  dish  of  skimmed  milk  away  in  a  warm 
place,  covered.  When  it  turns,  i.  e.,  becomes  a  smooth,  firm, 
but  not  tough  cake,  like  blanc-mange,  serve  in  the  same  dish. 
Cut  out  carefully  with  a  large  spoon,  and  put  in  saucers,  with 
cream,  powdered  sugar,  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  It  is  better,  if 
set  on  the  ice  for  an  hour  before  it  is  brought  to  table.  Do 
not  let  it  stand  until  the  whey  separates  from  the  curd. 

Few  people  know  how  delicious  this  healthful  and  cheap 
dessert  can  be  made,  if  eaten  before  it  becomes  tart  and  tough, 
with  a  liberal  allowance  cf  cream  and  sugar.  There  are  not 
many  jellies  and  creams  superior  to  it. 

Rennet. 

Clean  the  stomach  of  a  calf  (or  have  your  butcher  do  it  for 
you)  so  soon  as  it  is  killed,  scouring  inside  and  out  with  salt. 
When  perfectly  clean,  tack  upon  a  frame  to  dry  in  the  sun  for 
a  day.  Cut  in  squares,  and  pack  down  in  salt,  or  keep  in  wine 
or  brandy.  When  you  wish  to  use  the  salted,  soak  half  an 
hour  in  cold  water,  wash  well,  and  put  into  the  milk  to  be 
turned,  tied  to  a  string,  that  it  may  be  drawn  out  without 
breaking  the  curd.  The  liquor  rennet  sold  by  druggists  is 
sometimes  good,  quite  as  often  worthless.  You  can,  however, 
get  the  dried  or  salted  in  the  markets,  and  often  in  the  drug- 
stores. 

Mountain  Custard,  or  Junket.  % 
Take  a  piece  of  rennet  an  inch  long,  or  a  teaspoonful  of  the 
wine  in  which  rennet  is  kept,  to  each  quart  of  milk.  Season 


170 


COMMON  SENSE. 


with  vanilla  or  lemon,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  to  each  quart.  More  will  retard  the  formation.  Set  in 
a  warm  place — near  the  fire,  or  on  the  kitchen  table — closely 
covered.  Look  at  it  from  time  to  time,  and  if,  in  the  course 
of  an  hour,  there  are  no  signs  of  stiffening,  add  more  rennet. 
When  it  is  firm,  like  blanc  mange,  and  before  the  whey  sepa- 
rates from  the  curd,  remove  the  rennet,  and  set  upon  ice  until 
it  is  wanted.    Serve  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

Thickened  Milk. 
Boil  a  quart  of  milk,  add  a  very  little  salt,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rice  or  wheat  flour  wet  in  cold  milk.  Stir  in 
smoothly,  and  let  it  thicken  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  keep- 
ing the  outer  saucepan  at  a  hard  boil  for  half  an  hour.  Eat 
with  butter  and  sugar,  or  with  cream  and  sugar.  For  invalids, 
or  children  who  are  suffering  with  summer  disorders,  boil  at 
least  an  hour,  stirring  very  often. 


BREAD. 


Yeast  (Hop).  % 
4  large  potatoes,  or  six  small. 
2  quarts  cold  water. 
Double-handful  hops,  tied  in  a  coarse 

muslin  bag. 
4  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
2  white  sugar. 

Peel  the  potatoes,  and  put  them  with  the  hop-bag  into  a 
saucepan  containing  two  quarts  of  cold  water.  Cover  and  boil 
until  the  potatoes  break  and  fall  apart.  Take  these  out  with 
a  perforated  skimmer,  leaving  the  water  still  boiling,  mash 
them  fine  with  a  potato-beetle,  and  work  in  the  flour  and 


BREAD. 


171 


sugar.  Moisten  this  gradually  with  the  boiling  hop  tea, 
stirring  it  to  a  smooth  paste.  When  all  the  tea  has  been  mixed 
in,  set  it  aside  to  cool.  While  still  slightly  warm,  add  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  lively  yeast,  and  turn  all  into  a  large  open 
vessel  to  "  work."  Keep  this  in  a  warm  place  until  it  ceases 
to  bubble  up,  or  until  next  day.  In  summer  it  will  work  well 
in  a  few  hours.  When  quite  light,  put  in  earthen  jars  with 
small  mouths,  in  which  fit  corks,  or  bottle  it,  and  remove  to 
ice-house  or  cellar.  It  will  keep  good  for  a  fortnight — longer 
in  winter. 

When  you  wish  to  use  it  for  baking,  send  a  small  vessel  to 
the  cellar  for  the  desired  quantity,  and  re-cork  at  once.  A 
half-hour  in  a  hot  kitchen  may  spoil  it. 

Yeast  (Potato).  % 
6  potatoes.  ^ 
2  quarts  cold  water. 
4  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
2  "  white  sugar. 

Peel  and  boil  the  potatoes  until  they  break.  Leaving  the 
water  on  the  fire,  take  them  out  and  mash  fine  with  the  flour 
and  sugar,  wetting  gradually  with  the  hot  water  until  it  is  all 
used.  When  lukewarm,  add  a  gill  of  good  yeast,  and  set  aside 
in  an  open  vessel  and  warm  place  to  ferment.  When  it  ceases 
to  effervesce,  bottle  and  set  in  ice-house. 

This  yeast  is  very  nice  and  white,  and  is  preferred  by  many 
who  dislike  the  bitter  taste  of  hops.  It  is  also  convenient  to 
make  when  hops  cannot  be  obtained. 

Bread  Sponge  (Potato).  % 
6  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  fine  while  hot. 
6  tablespoonfuls  baker's  yeast. 
2  "  white  sugar. 

2  "  lard. 

E  tablespoonful  soda. 


172 


COMMON  SENSE. 


I  quart  warm — not  hot — water. 
3  cups  flour. 

Mash  the  potatoes,  and  work  in  the  lard  and  sugar.  Stir  to 
a  cream,  mixing  in  gradually  a  quart  of  the  water  in  which  the 
potatoes  were  boiled,  which  should  have  been  poured  out  to 
cool  down  to  blood  warmth.  Beat  in  the  flour,  already  wet  up 
with  a  litde  potato-water  to  prevent  lumping,  then  the  yeast, 
lastly  the  soda.  Cover  lightly  if  the  weather  is  warm,  more 
closely  in  winter,  and  set  to  rise  over  night  in  a  warm  place. 

Bread  Sponge  (Plain).  % 

1  quart  warm  water. 

6  tablespoonfuls  baker's  yeast. 

2  "  lard. 

2  "  white  sugar. 

I  tablespoonful  soda. 

Flour  to  make  a  soft  batter. 
Melt  the  lard  in  the  warm  water,  add  the  sugar,  then  the 
flour  by  degrees,  stirring  in  smoothly.  A  quart  and  a  pint  of 
flour  will  usually  be  sufficient  if  the  quality  is  good.  Next 
comes  the  yeast,  lastly  the  soda.  Beat  up  hard  for  several 
minutes,  and  set  to  rise  as  above. 

Bread  mixed  with  potato-sponge  is  more  nutritious,  keeps 
fresh  longer,  and  is  sweeter  than  that  made  with  the  plainer 
sponge.  But  there  are  certain  seasons  of  the  year  when  good 
old  potatoes  cannot  be  procured,  and  new  ones  will  not  do  for 
this  purpose. 

The  potato-sponge  is  safer,  because  surer  for  beginners  in 
the  important  art  of  bread-making.  After  using  it  for  fifteen 
years,  I  regard  it  as  almost  infallible— given  the  conditions  of 
good  flour,  yeast,  kneading,  and  baking. 

Family  Bread  (White).  % 
Having  set  your  sponge  over  night,  or,  if  you  bake  late  in 
the  afternoon,  early  in  the  morning,  sift  dry  flour  into  a  deep 


BREAD. 


173 


bread-tray,  and  strew  a  few  spoonfuls  of  fine  salt  over  it.  The 
question  of  the  quantity  of  flour  is  a  delicate  one,  requiring 
judgment  and  experience.    Various  brands  of  flour  are  so 
unequal  with  respect  to  the  quantity  of  gluten  they  contain, 
that  it  is  impossible  to  give  any  invariable  rule  on  this  subject. 
It  will  be  safe,  however,  to  sift  two  quarts  and  a  pint,  if  you 
have  set  the  potato  sponge ;  two  quarts  for  the  plain.  This 
will  make  two  good-sized  loaves.    Make  a  hole  in  the  middle 
of  the  heap,  pour  in  the  risen  sponge  (which  should  be  very 
light  and  seamed  ih  many  places  on  the  top),  and  work  down 
the  flour  into  it  with  your  hands.    If  too  soft,  add  more  flour. 
If  you  can  mould  it  at  all,  it  is  not  too  soft.-   If  stiff,  rinse 
out  the  bowl  in  which  the  sponge  was  set  with  a  Httle  luke- 
warm water,,  and  work  this  in.    When  you  have  it  in  manage- 
able shape,  begin  to  knead.    Work  the  mass  into  a  ball — your 
hands  having  been  well  floured  froiaa  the  first  j  detach  it  from 
the  tray,  and  lift  it  with  your  left  hand,  while  you  sprinkle 
flour  with  the  right  thickly  over  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the 
tray.    Toss  back  the  ball  into  this,  and  knead  hard— always 
toward  the  centre  of  the  mass,  which  should  be  repeatedly 
turned  over  and  around,  that  every  portion  may  be  manipu- 
lated.   Brisk  and  long  kneading  makes  the  pores  fine  and 
regular.    Gaping  holes  of  diverse  sizes  are  an  unerring  tell- 
tale of  a  careless  cook.    Spend  at  least  twenty  minutes — half 
an  hour  is  better — in  this  kind  of  useful  gymnastics.    It  is 
grand  exercise  for  arms  and  chest.    This  done,  work  the  dough 
into  a  shapely  ball  in  the  centre  of  the  tray,  sprinkle  flour  over 
the  top ;  throw  a  cloth  over  all  and  leave  it  on  the  kitchen- 
table  to  rise,  taking  care  it  is  not  in  a  draught  of  cold  air.  In 
summer,  it  will  rise  in  four  or  five  hours — in  winter,  six  are 
often  necessary.    It  should  come  up  steadily  until  it  at  least 
trebles  its  original  bulk,  and  the  floured  surface  cracks  all  over. 
Knead  again  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.    Then,  divide  it  into 
as  many  parts  as  you  wish  loaves,  and  put  these  in  well-greased 
pans  for  the  final  rising.    In  a  large  household  baking,  it  is 


174 


COMMON  SENSE. 


customary  to  mould  the  dough  into  oblong  rolls,  three  or  four, 
according  to  the  number  of  loaves  you  desire,  and  to  lay  these 
close  together  in  one  large  pan.  The  second  kneading  is  done 
upon  a  floured  board,  and  should  be  thorough  as  the  first,  the 
dough  being  continually  shifted  and  turned.  Set  the  pans  in 
a  warm  place  for  an  hour  longer,  with  a  cloth  thrown  over 
them  to  keep  out  the  air  and  dust.  Then  bake,  heeding  the 
directions  set  down  in  the  article  upon  bread  in  general.  If 
your  ovens  are  in  good  condition,  one  hour  should  bake  the 
above  quantity  of  bread.  But  here  again  experience  must  be 
your  guide.  Note  carefully  for  yourself  how  long  a  time  is 
required  for  your  first  successful  baking,  as  also  how  much  dry 
flour  you  have  worked  into  your  sponge,  and  let  these  data 
regulate  future  action.  I  have  known  a  variation  of  two 
quarts  in  a  large  baking  over  the  usual  measure  of  flour.  1 
need  not  tell  you  that  you  had  better  shun  a  brand  that  requires 
such  an  excessive  quantity  to  bring  the  dough  to  the  right  con 
sistency.  It  is  neither  nutritious  nor  economical.  When  you 
make  out  the  loaves,  prick  the  top  with  a  fork. 

Do  not  make  your  first  baking  too  large.  Practice  is  requisite 
to  the  management  of  an  unwieldy  mass  of  dough.  Let  your 
trial-loaf  be  with  say  half  the  quantity  of  sponge  and  flour  I 
have  set  down,  and  increase  this  as  skill  and  occasion  require, 
carefully  preserving  the  proportions.  Seven  or  eight  quarts  of 
flour  will  be  needed  for  the  semi-weekly  baking  of  a  family  of 
moderate  size. 

If  I  have  seemed  needlessly  minute  in  the  directions  I  have 
laid  down,  it  is  because  I  wish  to  be  a  guide,  not  a  betrayer, 
and  because  I  am  deeply  impressed  with  the  worth  of  such 
advice  as  may  tend  to  diminish  the  number  of  those  who  know 
not  for  themselves  the  comfort  and  delight  of  eating  from  day 
to  day,  and  year  to  year,  good  family  bread. 

Family  Bread  f Brown ).  % 
I    ish  it  were  in  my  power,  by  much  and  earnest  speaking 


BREAD. 


175 


and  writing,  to  induce  every  housekeeper  to  make  brown 
bread — that  is,  bread  made  of  unbolted,  usually  called  Graham 
flour — a  staple  article  of  diet  in  her  family.  I  only  repeat  the 
declaration  of  a  majority  of  our  best  chemists  and  physicians 
when  I  say  that  our  American  fondness  for  fine  white  bread  is 
a  serious  injury  to  our  health.  '  We  bolt  and  rebolt  our  flour 
until  we  extract  from  it  three-quarters  of  its  nutritive  qualities, 
leaving  little  strength  in  it  except  what  lies  in  gluten  or  starch, 
and  consign  that  which  makes  bone  and  tissue,  which  regulates 
the  digestive  organs,  and  leaves  the  blood  pure,  the  brain 
clear,  to  the  lower  animals.  Growing  children  especially  should 
eat  brown  bread  daily.  It  supplies  the  needed  phosphate  to 
the  tender  teeth  and  bones.  If  properly  made,  it  soon  com- 
mends itself  to  their  taste,  and  white  becomes  insipid  in  com- 
parison. Dyspeptics  have  long  been  familiar  with  its  dietetic 
virtues,  and,  were  the  use  of  it  mor^  general,  we  should  have 
fewer  wretches  to  mourn  over  the  destroyed  coats  of  their 
stomachs.  It  is  wholesome,  sweet,  honest,  and  should  be 
popular. 

Prepare  a  sponge  as  for  white  bread,  using  potatoes  or  white 
flour.  My  rule  is  to  take  out  a  certain  quantity  of  the  risen 
sponge  on  baking  day,  and  set  aside  for  brown  bread.  Put 
into  a  tray  two  parts  Graham  flour,  one-third  white,  and  to 
every  quart  of  this  allow  a  handful  of  Indian  meal,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Wet  this  up  with  the  sponge,  and  when  it  is 
mixed,  add,  for  a  loaf  of  fair  size,  half  a  teacupful  of  molasses. 
The  dough  should  be  very  soft.  If  there  is  not  enough  of  the 
sponge  to  reduce  it  to  the  desired  consistency,  add  a  little 
blood-warm  water.  Knead  it  diligently  and  long.  It  will  not 
rise  so  rapidly  as  the  white  flour,  having  more  "  body"  to  carry. 
Let  it  take  its  time ;  make  into  round,  comfortable  loaves,  and 
set  down  again  for  the  second  rising,  when  you  have  again 
kneaded  it.  Bake  steadily,  taking  care  it  does  not  burn,  and 
do  not  cut  while  hot.    The  result  will  well  repay  you  for  your 


176 


COMMON  SENSE. 


trouble.  It  will  take  longer  time  to  bake  than  white  bread. 
Brown  flour  should  not  be  sifted. 

Milk  Bread. 

I  quart  of  milk. 

Yo,  teacupful  of  yeast. 

^  lb.  butter,  one  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

Stir  into  the  milk,  which  should  be  made  blood-warm,  a  pint 
of  flour,  the  sugar,  lastly  the  yeast.  Beat  all  together  well,  and 
let  them  rise  five  or  six  hours.  Then  melt  the  butter,  and  add 
with  a  little  salt.  Work  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff" dough; 
let  this  rise  four  hours,  and  make  into  small  loaves.  Set  near 
the  fire  for  half  an  hour,  and  bake. 

In  warm  weather,  add  a  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  warm 
water,  to  the  risen  sponge,  as  all  bread  mixed  with  milk  is  apt 
to  sour. 

French  Rolls. 

I  quart  milk  ;  new,  warm  milk  is  best. 

I  teacup  yeast. 

I  quart  and  a  pint  flour. 

When  this  sponge  is  light,  work  in  a  well-beaten  egg  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half  a  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  one  tablespoon- 
ful white  sugar  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let 
this  stand  four  or  five  hours,  roll  out  into  round  cakes  and 
fold,  not  quite  in  the  centre,  like  turn-overs,  or  shape  with 
your  hands  into  balls.  Set  these  closely  together  in  the 
baking-pan;  let  them  rise  one  hour,  and  just  before  putting 
thom  into  the  oven,  cut  deeply  across  each  ball  with  a  sharp 
knife.  This  will  make  the  cleft  roll,  so  familiar  to  us  in  French 
restaurants.    Bake  half  an  hour. 

Sally  Lunn.  % 
I  quart  of  flour. 
4  eggs. 


BISCUIT. 


177 


cup  melted  butter. 
I  cup  warm  milk. 
I  cup  warm  water. 
4  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 

"         soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Beat  the'eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  milk,  water,  butter 
soda,  and  salt ;  stir  in  the  flour  to  a  smooth  batter,  and  beat 
the  yeast  in  well.  Set  to  rise  in  a  buttered  puddmg-dish,  m 
which  it  must  be  baked  and  sent  to  table.  Or,  if  you  wish  to 
turn  it  out,  set  to  rise  in  a  ^.//-buttered  mould.  It  will  not 
be  light  under  six  hours.  Bake  steadily  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  or  until  a  straw  thrust  into  it  comes  up  clean.    Eat  while 

^"^This  is  the  genuine  old-fashioned  Sally  Lunn,  and  will 
hardly  give  place  even  yet  to  the  newer  and  faster  compounds 
known  under  the  same  name.  - 

Mrs.  E  's  Biscuit  (Soda),  t 

1  quart  flour. 

2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  lard. 

2  cups  sweet— if  you  can  get  it— new  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  "  cream-tartar. 
I  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Rub  the  soda  and  cream-tartar  into  the  flour,  and  sift  all 
together  before  they  are  wet ;  then  put  in  the  salt;  next  the 
lard,  rubbed  into  the  prepared  flour  quickly  and  lightly ;  lastly, 
pour  in  the  milk.  Work  out  the  dough  rapidly,  kneading  with 
as  few  strokes  as  possible,  since  handling  injures  the  biscuit. 
If  properly  prepared  the  dough  will  have  a  rough  surface  and 
the  biscuit  be  flaky.  The  dough  should  also  be  ve^y  soft.  If 
the  flour  stifl"en  it  too  much,  add  more  milk.  Roll  out  lightly, 
cut  into  cakes  at  least  half  an  inch"  thick,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.    The  biscuits  made  by  the  friend  from  whom  I  had  this 

T, 


178 


COMMON  SENSE. 


receipt  were  marvels  of  lightness  and  sweetness.  I  have  often 
thought  of  them  since  with  regretful  longing,  when  set  down 
to  so-called  "soda-biscuit,"  marbled  with  greenish-yellow 
streaks,  and  emiting,  when  split,  an  odor  which  was  in  itself 
an  eloquent  dissuasive  to  an  educated  appetite.  Few  cooks 
make  really  good,  quick  biscuit— why,  I  am  unable  to  say, 
unless  upon  the  principle  of  "  brains  will  tell."  I  have  had 
more  than  one  in  my  kitchen,  who,  admirable  in  almost  every 
other  respect,  were  absolutely  unfit  to  be  intrusted  with  this 
simple  yet  delicate  manufacture.  The  common  fault  is  to 
have  too  "  heavy  a  hand  "  with  soda,  and  to  guess  at "  the 
quantities,  instead  of  measuring  them.    Eat  while  warm. 

Graham  Biscuit.  | 
3  cups  Graham  flour. 

1  cup  white. 
3  cups  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lard. 

I  heaping  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 
I  saltspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 

Mix  and  bake  as  you  do  the  white  soda-biscuit  (Mrs. 
E  's).    They  are  good  cold  as  well  as  hot. 

Minute  Biscuit. 
I  pint  sour,  or  buttermilk.  ^ 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter. 

Flour  to  make  soft  dough— just  stiff  enough  to  handle.  Mix, 
roll,  and  cut  out  rapidly,  with  as  little  handling  as  may  be, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Graham  Wheatlets.  \ 
T  pint  Graham  flour. 


SWEET  EUSKS. 


179 


Nearly  a  quart  of  boiling  water  or  milk. 

I  teaspoonful  salt. 
Scald  the  flour,  when  you  have  salted  it,  into  as  soft  dough 
as  you  can  handle.  Roll  it  nearly  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  round 
cakes,  lay  upon  a  hot  buttered  tin  or  pan,  and  bake  them  in 
the  hottest  oven  you  can  get  ready.  Everything  depends  upon 
heat  in  the  manufacture  of  these.  Some  cooks  spread  them 
on  a  hot  tin,  and  set  this  upon  a  red-hot  stove.  Properly 
scalded  and  cooked,  they  are  light  as  puffs,  and  very  good ; 
otherwise  they  are  flat  and  tough.    Split  and  butter  while  hot. 

Sweet  Rusk.  X 
I  pint  warm  milk. 
}4  cup  of  butter. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 

Make  a  sponge  with  the  milk,  yeast,  and  enough  flour  for  a 
thin  batter,  and  let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  the 
butter,  eggs,  and  sugar,  previously  beaten  up  well  together,  the 
salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Mould  with  the 
hands  into  balls  of  uniform  size,  set  close  together  in  a  pan, 
and  let  them  rise  until  very  light.  After  baking,  wash  the  tops 
with  a  clean  soft  cloth  dipped  in  molasses  and  water. 

Butter  Crackers. 

I  quart  of  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

^4  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

2  cups  sweet  milk. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  or,  what  is  better,  cut  it  up 
with  a  knife  or  chopper,  as  you  do  in  pastry ;  add  the  salt, 
milk,  and  soda,  mixing  well.    Work  into  a  ball,  lay  upon  a 


180 


COMMON  SENSE. 


floured  board,  and  beat  with  the  rolling-pin  half  an  hour,  turn- 
ing and  shifting  the  mass  often.  Roll  into  an  even  sheet,  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  or  less,  prick  deeply  with  a  fork,  and 
bake  hard  in  a  moderate  oven.  Hang  them  up  in  a  muslin 
bag  in  the  kitchen  for  two  days  to  dry. 

Wafers.  J 

1  pound  of  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
A  little  salt. 

Mix  with  sweet  milk  into  a  stiff  dough,  roll  out  very  thin, 
cut  into  round  cakes,  and  again  roll  these  as  thin  as  they  can 
be  handled.  Lift  them  carefully,  lay  in  a  pan,  and  bake  vgry 
quickly. 

These  are  extremely  nice,  especially  for  invalids.  They 
should  be  hardly  thicker  than  writing-paper.  Flour  the  baking- 
pan  instead  of  greasing. 

Crumpets  {Plain,)  % 
3  cups  warm  milk. 

cup  yeast. 
2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

I  saltspoonful  salt,  and  the  same  of  soda,  dissolved  in  hot 
water. 

Flour  to  make  good  batter. 

Set  these  ingredients — leaving  out  the  butter  and  soda— as 
a  sponge.  When  very  light,  beat  in  the  melted  butter,  with  a 
very  little  flour,  to  prevent  the  butter  from  thinning  the  batter 
too  much  j  stir  in  the  soda  lard,  fill  pattypans  or  muffin-rings 
with  the  mixture,  and  let  them  stand  fifteen  minutes  before 
baking. 

This  is  an  excellent,  easy,  and  economical  receipt 

Graham  Muffins.  % 
3  cups  Graham  flour. 
I  cup  white  flour. 


MUFFINS.  181 

I  quart  of  milk. 
^  cup  yeast. 

J  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Set  to  rise  over  night,  and  bake  in  muffin-rings  twenty 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven.    Eat  hot. 

Queen  Muffins.  J 

1  quart  of  milk. 
^  cup  of  yeast. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

I  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  good  batter. 

2  eggs. 

Set  the  batter — leaving  out  the  eggs— to  rise  over  night.  In 
the  morning  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  stir  into  the  batter,  md 
bake  in  muffin  rings  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

"  Mother's"  Muffins.  I 
I  pint  milk. 
I  egg. 

I  tablespoonful  lard. 
^  cup  yeast. 
Flour  for  stiff  batter. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 
Set  to  rise  over  night, 

Charlotte  Muffins.  X 

I  quart  of  flour. 

3  eggs — the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  until 
stiff. 

3  cups  of  milk.  If  sour,  no  disadvantage,  if  soda  be  added^ 
A  little  salt. 


182 


COMMON  SENSE. 


The  excellence  of  these  depends  upon  thorough  beating  and 
quick  baking. 

Receipts  for  Bread  made  of  Northern  Indian  Meal. 

Nonpareil  Corn  Bread.  % 

2  heaping  cups  of  Indian  meal. 
I  cup  of  flour. 

3  eggs. 

2^  cups  milk. 
I  tablespoonful  lard. 
•  2  "  white  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  "  cream-tartar. 
I         "         salt.  ^ 

Beat  the  eggs  very  thoroughly — whites  and  yolks  separately 
— melt  the  lard,  sift  the  cream-tartar  and  soda  into  the  meal 
and  flour  while  yet  dry,  and  stir  this  in  at  the  last.  Then,  to 
borrow  the  direction  scribbled  by  a  rattle-tongued  girl  upon 
the  above  receipt,  when  she  sent  it  to  me — "  beat  like  mad  !  " 
Bake  qtiickly  and  steadily  in  a  buttered  mould.  Less  than 
half  an  hour  will  usuall}^  suffice.  In  cutting  corn  bread  hold 
the  knife  perpendicularly  and  cut  toward  you. 

Corn  Meal  Muffins. 

Mix  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt,  only  a  little  thinner? 
and  bake  in  rings  or  small  pattypans.  All  kinds  of  corn  bread 
should  be  baked  quickly  and  eaten  while  hot. 

Steamed  Corn  Bread. 
2  cups  Indian  meal. 

1  cup  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

2^  cups  "loppered"  milk,  or  buttermilk. 
I  teaspoonful  soda. 


JOHNNY  CAKE. 


183 


I  teaspoonful  salt. 

I  heaping  tablespoonful  lard,  melted. 

Beat  very  hard  and  long,  put  in  buttered  mould,  tie  c 
coarse  cloth  tightly  over  it,  and  if  you  have  no  steamer,  fit 
the  mould  in  the  top  of  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  taking  care  it 
does  not  touch  the  surface  of  the  liquid.  Lay  a  close  cover 
over  the  cloth  tied  about  the  mould,  to  keep  in  all  the  heat. 
Steam  one  hour  and  a  half,  and  set  in  an  oven  ten  minutes. 
Turn  out  upon  a  hot  plate,  and  eat  while  warm. 

This  will  do  for  a  plain  dessert,  eaten  with  pudding-sauce. 

Receipts  for  Corn  Bread  made  of  Southern  Indian  Meal. 

Johnny  Cake. 

I  teacupful  sweet  milk. 
I         "  buttermilk. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 
I         "  soda. 

I  tablespoonful  melted  butter.  \ 
Enough  meal  to  enable  you  to  roll  it  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch 
thick.  Spread  upon  a  buttered  tin,  or  in  a  shallow  pan,  and 
bake  forty  minutes.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  brown,  baste  it 
with  a  rag  tied  to  a  stick  and  dipped  in  melted  butter.  Repeat 
this  five  or  six  times  until  it  is  brown  and  crisp.  Break — not 
cut  il  up — and  eat  for  luncheon  or  tea,  acompanied  by  sweet 
or  buttermilk. 

Risen  Corn  Bread. 
Mix  a  tolerably  stiff  dough  of  corn-meal  and  boiling  water, 
a  little  salt,  and, a  tablespoonful  butter.    Let  it  stand  four  or 
five  hours  until  light;  make  into  small  loaves  and  bake  rather 
quickly. 

Corn-meal  Pone. 
I  quart  Indian  meal. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 


184 


COMMON  SENSE. 


A  little  lard,  melted. 

Cold  water  to  make  a  soft  dough: 

Mould  with  the  hands  into  thin  oblong  cakes,  lay  in  a  well- 
greased  pan,  and  bake  very  quickly. 

The  common  way  is  to  mould  into  oval  mounds,  higher  m 
the  middle  than  at  the  ends,  shaping  these  rapidly  and  lightly 
with  the  hands,  by  tossing  the  dough  over  and  over.  This  is 
done  with  great  dexterity  by  the  Virginia  cooks,  and  this 
corn-meal  pone  forms  a  part  of  every  "dinner.  It  is  broken, 
not  cut,  and  eaten  very  hot. 

Ash  Cake 

Is  mixed  as  above.  A  clean  spot  is  swept  upon  the  hot 
hearth,  the  bread  put  down  and  covered  with  hot  wood  ashes. 
It  must  be  washed  and  wiped  dry  before  it  is  eaten.  A  neater 
way  is  to  lay  a  cabbage-leaf  above  and  below  the  pone.  The 
bread  is  thus  steamed  before  it  is  baked,  and  is  made  ready 
for  eating  by  stripping  off  the  leaves. 

Buckwheat  Cakes.  X 
(     I  quart  buckwheat  flour. 
4  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  handful  Indian  meal. 

2  tablespoonfuls  molasses — not  syrup. 

Warm  water  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Beat  very  well 
and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  If  the  batter  is  in  the  least 
sour  in  the  morning,  stir  in  a  very  little  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water. 

Mix  in  an  earthern  crock,  and  leave  some  in  the  bottom 
each  morning — a  cupful  or  so — to  serve  as  sponge  for  the 
next  night,  instead  of  getting  fresh  yeast.  In  cold  weather 
this  plan  can  be  successfully  pursued  for  a  week  or  ten  days 
without  setting  a  new  supply.  Of  course  you  add  the  usual 
quantity  of  flour,  &c.,  every  night,  and  beat  up  well. 


COEN-MEAL  FLAPJACKS. 


185 


Do  not  make  your  cakes  too  small.  Buckwheats  should 
be  of  generous  size.  Some  put  two-thirds  buckwheat,  one- 
third  oatmeal,  omitting  the  Indian. 

Flannel  Cakes,  i 

I  quart  milk. 

3  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted. 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  good  batter.  Set  the  rest  of  the  ingre- 
dients as  a  sponge  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  add  the 
melted  butter  and  eggs. 

Corn-meal  Flapjacks. 

1  quart  sour  or  buttermilk. 

2  eggs,  beaten  light. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  "  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  molasses. 

I         "  lard,  melted. 

j4  cup  flour. 

Meal  to  make  a  batter  a  trifle  thicker  than  flannel  cakes. 

Graham  Cakes,  t 

2  cups  brown  flour. 
I  cup  white  " 

3  cups  sour  or  buttermilk. 

I  full  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 
I  heaping  tablespoonful  lard. 
3  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 
If  you  use  sweet  milk,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
Bake  as  soon  as  they  are  mixed. 


186 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Auntie's  Cakes  {without  Eggs). 

1  quart  sour  or  buttermilk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  soda  (small  ones). 
I  "  salt. 

■    ,        Flour  to  make  a  tolerably  thick  batter. 

Stir  until  smooth— no  longer— and  bake  immediately. 

Grandpa's  Favorites.  % 

1  quart  milk. 

2  cups  stale  bread-crumbs. 
I  good  handful  of  flour. 

I  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 

Work  the  bread  and  milk  smooth,  stir  in  the  butter  and 
eggs,  then  the  salt,  lastly  just  enough  flour  to  bind  the  mixture. 
If  too  thick,  add  milk.     These  are  wholesome  and  good. 
Take  care  they  do  not  stick  to  the  griddle, 
r 

Cream  Cakes.  J 
I  pint  cream  and  same  quantity  of  milk,  slightly  sour. 
4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  whipped  separately. 
I  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
I         "  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  good  batter,  well  beaten  in. 

Velvet  Cakes. 
I  quart  new  unskimmed  milk— half  cream  and  half  milk 
is  preferable. 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very  stilT. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 
Rice  flour. 

Mix  the  beaten  yolks  with  the  milk,  add  the  salt,  then  rice 
flour  to  make  a  batter  thick  as  that  for  flannel  cakes;  lastly, 


WAFFLES. 


187 


whip  in  the  stiffened  whites  very  lightly,  and  bake  immedi- 
ately. 

"  Mother's  "  Waffles.  J 

2  cups  milk. 

2  eggs. 

3  cups  flour. 

I  teaspoonful  cream-tartar. 

"  soda. 
I  saltspoonful  salt. 
I  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
Sift  the  cream-tartar  into  the  flour  with  the  salt.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  a  little  hot  water.    Beat  the  eggs  very  well.  Add 
the  flour  the  last  thing.    If  the  batter  is  too  stiff,  put  in  more 
milk. 

Rice  Waffles. 
I  cup  boiled  rice. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

Lard,  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

teaspoonful  soda.  * 
I  "  cream-tartar. 

I  "  salt. 

Flour  for  a  thin  batter. 

Quick  Waffles. 

I  pint  milk. 

3  eggs,  beaten  very  hght. 

I  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

I  teaspoonful  cream-tartar  sifted  in  the  flour. 

y2       "  soda. 

I         "  salt. 

A  heaping  pint  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  soft  batter. 

Shortcake,  &c. 

Sunny  bank  Shortcake  (for  fruit.)  % 
2  quarts  flour, 


188 


COMMON  SENSE. 


2  tablespoonfuls  lard. 

3  "  butter. 

2^  cups  sour  or  buttermilk.    "  Loppered"  cream  is  still 

better. 
2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

I  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

I  "  salt. 
Chop  up  the  shortening  in  the  salted  flour,  as  for  pastry. 
Add  the  eggs  and  soda  to  the  milk ;  put  all  together,  handling 
as  little  as  may  be.  Roll  lightly  and  quickly  into  two  sheets, 
the  one  intended  for  the  upper  crust  fully  half  an  inch  thick, 
the  lower  less  than  this.  Lay  the  latter  smoothly  in  a  well- 
greased  baking-pan,  strew  it  thickly  with  raspberries,  black- 
berries, or,  what  is  better  yet,  huckleberries;  sprinkle'  four  or 
Hve  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  over  these,  cover  with  the  thicker 
crust,  and  bake  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes,  until 
nicely  browned,  but  not  dried.  Eat  hot  for  breakfast  with 
butter  and  powdered  sugar. 

If  bweet  milk  be  used,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar 
sifted  into  the  dry  flour.  It  should  be  mixed  as  soft  as  can 
be  rolled.  This  shortcake  is  very  nice  made  with  the  common 
"  black-caps  "  or  wild  raspberries. 

Strawberry  Shortcake.  % 
I  quart  flour. 
3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

I  large  cup  sour  cream  or  very  rich  "  loppered  "  milk. 
I  egg. 

I  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

I  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

I  saltspoonful  salt. 
Proceed,  in  mixing  and  baking,  as  with  the  huckleberry 
short-cake,  except  that,  instead  of  putting  the  berries  between 
the  crust,  you  lay  one  sheet  of  paste  smoothly  upon  the  other, 
and  bake  until  done.    While  warm— not  hot— separate  these. 


4. 


SCOTCH  %HORT-BREAD. 


189 


They  will  come  apart  easily,  just  where  they  were  joined.  Lay 
upon  the  lower  a  thick  coating,  several  deep,  of  strawberries ; 
sprinkle  powdered  sugar  among  and  over  them ;  cover  with 
the  upper  crust.  It  is  best  to  bake  strawberry  shortcake  in 
round  jelly-cake  tins,  or  round  pans  a  little  deeper  than  these 
as  they  should  be  sent  to  the  table  whole,  while  the  hot 
shortcake  is  generally  cut  into  square  slices,  and  piled  upon  a 
plate. 

Strawberry  shortcake  is  esteemed  a  great  delicacy  in  its 
season.  It  is  eaten  at  tea,  cut  into  triangles  hke  pie,  and 
sweet  cream  poured  over  each  slice,  with  more  sugar  sifted 
over  it,  if  desired. 

Scotch  Short-bread. 
2  lbs.  flour.  ^  i 

I  lb.  best  butter. 
^  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
Chop  the  flour  and  butter  together,  having  made  the  butter 
quite  soft  by  setting  it  near  the  fire.  Knead  in  the  suear,  roll 
into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  in  shapes  with  a  cake-, 
cutter.  Bake  upon  buttered  paper  in  a  shallow  tin  until  crisp 
and  of  a  delicate  yellowish  brown. 

Easter  Buns  (''Hot  Cross").  % 
3  cups  sweet  milk. 
I  cup  yeast. 

Flour  to  make  thick  batter. 
Set  this  as  a  sponge  over  night.    In  the  morning  add— 
I  cup  sugar. 

cup  butter,  melted. 
^  nutmeg. 
I  saltspoonful  salt. 
Flour  enough  to  roll  out  like  biscuit.    Knead  well,  and  set 
'to  rise  for  five  hours.    Roll  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  round 
'cakes,  and  lay  in  rows  in  a  buttered  baking-pan.    When  they 


COMMON  SENSE. 

have  stood  half  an  hour,  make  a  cross  upon  each  with  a  knife, 
and  put  instantly  into  the  oven.  Bake  to  a  light  brown,  and 
brush  over  with  a  feather  or  soft  bit  of  rag,  dipped  in  the  white 
of  an  egg  beaten  up  stiff  with  white  sugar. 

These  are  the  "  hot  cross-buns  "  of  the  "  London  cries." 


CAKES,  &0. 


Icing.  I 

Whites  of  4  eggs. 

I  pound  powdered  white  sugar. 
iPfr  Lemon,  vanilla,  or  other  seasoning. 

Break  the  whites  into  a  broad,  clean,  cool  dish.  Throw  a 
small  handful  of  sugar  upon  them,  and  begin  whipping  it  in 
with  long,  even  strokes  of  the  beater.  A  few  minutes  later, 
throw  in  more  sugar,  and  keep  adding  it  at  intervals  until  it  is 
all  used  up.  Beat  perseveringly— always  with  a  regular  sweep- 
ing movement  of  the  whisk— until  the  icing  is  of  a  smooth, 
fine,  andffirm  texture.  Half  an  hour's  beating  should  be  suffl- 
cient,  if  done  well.  If  not  stiif  enough,  put  in  more  sugar.  A 
little  practice  will  teach  you  when  your  end  is  gained.  If  you 
season  with  lemon-juice,  allow,  in  measuring  your  sugar,  for 
the  additional  liquid.  Lemon  juice,  or  a  very  little  tartaric 
acid  whitens  the  icing.  Use  af  least  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  for  each  egg. 

^  This  method  of  making  icing  was  taught  me  by  a  confec- 
tioner, as  easier  and  surer  than  the  old  plan  of  beating  the  eggs 
first  and  alone.  I  have  used  no  other  since  my  first  trial  of  it. 
The  frosting  hardens  in  one-fourth  the  time  required  under  the 
former  plan,  and  not  more  than  half  the  time  is  consumed  in 
g  the  manufacture.  I  have  often  iced  a  cake  but  two  hours 
before  it  was  cut,  and  found  the  sugar  dry  all  through. 


CAKE. 


191 


Pour  the  icing  by  the  spoonful  on  the  top  of  the  cake  and 
near  the  centre  of  the  surface  to  be  covered.  If  the  loaf  is  of 
such  a  shape  that  the  liquid  will  settle  of  itself  to  its  place,  it 
is  best  to  let  it  do  so.  If  you  spread  it,  use  a  broad-bladed 
knife,  dipped  in  cold  water.  If  it  is  as  thick  with  sugar  as  it 
should  be,  you  need  not  lay  on  more  than  one  coat.  You  may 
set  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three  minutes,  if  you  are  in  great 
haste.  The  better  plan  is  to  dry  in  a  sunny  window,  where 
the  air  can  get  at  it,  and  where  there  is  no  dust. 

Color  icing  yellow  by  putting  the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon  or 
orange  in  a  thin  muslin  bag,  straining  a  little  juice  through  it, 
and  squeezing  it  hard  into  the  egg  and  sugar. 

Strawberry-juice  colors  a  pretty  pink,  as  does  also  cran- 
berry-syrup. / 
Almond  Icing. 

Whites  of  four  eggs. 
I  pound  sweet  almonds. 
I      "    powdered  sugar. 
A  little  rose-water. 

Blanch  the  almonds  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them 
I  and  stripping  off  the  skins.  When  dry,  pound  them  to  a  paste, 
I  a  few  at  a  time,  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  moistening  it  with 
i  rose-water  as  you  go  on.  When  beaten  fine  and  smooth,  beat 
; gradually  into  icing,  prepared  according  to  the  foregoing 
receipt. 

Put  on  very  thick,  and,  when  nearly  dry,  cover  with  plain 
icing. 

This  is  very  fine. 

Martha's  Cake  (For  Jelly). 

3  eggs. 

I  cup  sugar. 

Butter,  the  size  of  an  egg. 
I  cup  flour. 


192 


COMMON  SENSE. 


I  teaspoonfnl  cr-^am  tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour. 
Yz  teaspopnfu;  soda,  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  milk. 
Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  and  spread,  when  cold,  with  fruit 
jelly.  \ 

This  is,  although  so  simple  and  inexpensive,  an  admirable 
foundation  for  the  various  kinds  of  jelly,  qx^2.tsi,  ^v.^  meringue 
cake,  which  are  always  popular.  It  seldom  fails,  and  when 
well  mixed  and  baked,  is  very  nice. 

Mrs.  M.'s  Cui-  Cake,  t 
I  cup  butter. 
•  2  cups  sugar.  * 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

I  cup  swee^  ..liJk. 
I  teaspoonful  soda. 
Bake  in  a  loaf,  or  as  jelly-cake. 

Cream-Gake. 

2  cups  puwdered  sugar. 
(  cupful  butter. 

4  eggs. 

^  cupful  milk. 

^  teaspoc  ".ful  soda. 

I  "  cream-tartar. 

3  cups  flour. 

Bake  in  thin  layers  as  for  jelly-cake,  and  spread  between 
them  when  cold  the  following  mixture  : — 
pint  of  milk. 
2  small  teaspoonfuls  corn-starch. 
I  egg.' 

I  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
^  cup  sugar. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  the  corn  starch  wet  with 


CAKE. 


193 


a  little  cold  milk ;  take  out  a  little  ^nd  mix  gradually  with  the 
beaten  egg  and  sugar;  return  to  thie  rest  ^stard,  and 

boil,  stirring  constantly  until  quite  thick.  corl  before 

you  season,  and  spread  on  cake.  Season  the  ich  g  also  with 
vanilla. 

Cocoanut-Cake.  i 

2  cups  powdered  sugar. 
}^  cup  butter. 

3  eggs. 

I  cup  milk. 
J  cups  flour. 
,  2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 

I  teaspoonful  soda. 
Bake  as  for  jelly-cake. 

Ftiling. 

I  grated  cocoanut. 

To  one  half  of  this  add  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth, 
and  I  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Lay  this  between  the 
layers. 

Mix  with  the  other  half  of  the  grated  cocoanut  four  table- 
spoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  and  strew  thickly  upon  top  of  cake. 

Loaf  Cocoanut  Cake. 

I  lb.  sugir. 

lb,  :>ntter. 
6  egg?„ 
y2  lb.  flour. 

I    "  finely  grated  cocoanut,  stirred  lightly  in  the  last 
thing. 
Bake  immediately. 

"One,  Two,  Three,  Four"  Cocoanut-Cake. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  "  flour. 

M 


194 


COMMON  SENSE. 


4  eggs  (the  whites  only). 
I  cup  milk. 

i^teaspoonful  ^^am-tartar,  ^^.^^^^  .^^^ 
^  small  cocoanut,  stirred  in  at  the  last. 

Cocoanut-Cakes  (Small). 

I  cocoanut,  carefully  skinned  and  grated. 

Milk  of  the  same. 

ij4  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

As  much  water  as  you  have  cocoanut  milk. 

Whites  of  three  eggs. 
Dissolve  one  pound  of  sugar  in  the  milk  and  water.  Stew 
until  it  becomes  a  "  ropy  "  syrup,  and  turn  out  into  a  buttered 
dish.  Have  ready  the  beaten  white  of  egg,  with  the  remaining 
half-pound  of  sugar  whipped  into  it ;  mix  with  this  the  grated 
cocoanut,  and  little  by  little,  beating  all  the  while  the  boiled 
syrup,  so  soon  as  it  cools  sufficiently  not  to  scald  the  eggs. 
Drop  in  tablespoonfuls  upon  buttered  papers.  Try  one  first, 
and  if  it  runs,  beat  in  more  sugar.  Bake  in  a  very  moderate 
oven,  watching  to  prevent  scorching.  They  should  not  be 
sufferedUo  brown  at  all. 

These  will  keep  some  time,  but  are  best  quite  fresh. 

Lee  Cake.  :j: 
10  eggs. 

1  lb.  sugar.  / 
%  lb.  flour. 

2  lemons. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately ;  add  to  all  the  yolks  and 
the  whites  of  seven  eggs  the  sugar,  the  rind  of  two  lemons,  and 
juice  of  one.    Bake  as  for  jelly-cake. 

To  the  whites  of  three  eggs  allow  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
powdered  sugar;  beat  stiff  as  for  icing,  take  out  enough  to 
cover  the  Lop  of  the  cake  and  set  aside.    Add  to  the  rest  the 


CAKE.  195 

# 

juice  and  half  the  grated  rind  a  large  orange.  When  the 
cake  is  nearly  cold,  spread  this  between  the  layers.  Beat  into 
the  icing  reserved  for  the  top  a  little  lemon-juice,  and,  if 
needed,  more  sugar.  It  should  be  stiffer  than  that  spread 
between  the  cakes. 

You  can  make  a  very  delightful  variation  of  this  elegant 
cake,  by  spreading  the  orange  icing  between  layers  made  ac- 
cording to  the  receipt  given  for  "  Martha's  Jelly-cake  "  several 
pages  back,  and  frosting  with  lemon  meringue,  as  above. 

French  Cake. 

I  lb.  sugar, 
lb.  butter. 

I  lb.  currants,  washed  clean  and  dredged  with  flour. 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

Nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  three  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

Lemon  Cake. 

1  cup  butter  (packed). 

2  scant  cups  of  sugar. 

lo  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately. 

I  small  cup  of  milk. 

Juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon. 

I  small  teaspoonful  soda. 
Flour  to  make  tolerably  thin  batter  (between  two  and  three 
cups).    Of  some  qualities  of  flour  three  cups  will  be  needed. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Lady-Cake. 
y2,  lb.  butter. 
I    "  flour. 
8  eggs. 

I  teaspoonful  cream-tartar. 
yz       "  soda. 


196  COMMON  SENSE. 

I  lb.  sugar.  ^ 
^  pint  milk. 

Sister  Mag's  Cake.  J 
2^2,  cups  powdered  sugar. 

cup  of  butter. 
I     "    sweet  milk. 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

I  lemon,  juice  and  rind. 
I  small  teaspoonful  soda. 
Bake  in  a  square  or  oblong  tin,  and  frost  with  whites  of  two 
eggs  beaten  stiff  with  powdered  sugar.  ^  \ 

Dover  Cake.  % 

I  lb.  flour. 

I  "  white  sugar. 

lb.  butter,  rubbed  with  the  sugar  to 
a  very  light  cream. 
6  eggs. 

I  cup  sweet  milk. 
<     I  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  vinegar. 
I         "        powdered  cinnamon. 
I  tablespoonful  rose-water. 
Flavor  the  frosting  with  lemon-juice. 

Chocolate  Cake.  X 

2  cups  of  sugar. 
I  cup  butter. 

The  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  whites  of  two. 
I  cup  of  milk, 
cups  flour, 
teaspoonful  soda. 
I  "        cream-tartar,  sifted  into  the  flour. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins. 


CAKE.        .  197 

•  .. 

Mtxhire  filling. 
White  of  three  eggs, 
ij^  cup  sugar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate. 
I  teaspoonful  vanilb. 
Bake  well  together,  spread  between  the  layers  and  on  top 
of  cake. 

Caramel  Cake.  % 
3  cups  sugar, 
i)^  cups  butter. 

1  cup  milk. 

0  4^  cups  flour. 

5  eggs. 

•  Small  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 

Caramel  for filling. 
iy2  cup  brown  sugar. 
.       cup  milk. 
I  cup  molasses. 
I  teaspoonful  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  flour. 

2  cold  water. 

Boil  this  mixture  five  minutes,  add  half  a  cake  Baker's 
chocolate  (grated),  boil  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  rich  cust- 
ard.   Add  a  pinch  of  soda,  stir  well,  and  remove  from  fire. 

When  cold,  flavor  with  a  large  teaspoonful  vanilla,  and  spread 
between  the  layers  of  cake,  which  should  be  bak  id  as  for  je  ly- 
cake.  Cover  the  top  with  the  same,  and  set  in  an  open,  sunny 
window  to  dry. 

The  above  quantity  will  make  two  large  cakes. 

Marble  Cake. 
Light. 

I  cup  white  sugar. 
%  cup  butter. 


m 


198 


COMMON  SENSE. 


^  cup  milk. 
Whites  of  3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream-tartar. 
"  soda. 

2  cups  flour. 

1 

Dark. 
cup  brown  sugar. 
^    "  butter. 
'4    "  molasses. 

"  milk. 
'/2  nutmeg. 

teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
'4       "  allspice. 
4       "  soda. 

"  cream-tartar. 
2  cups  flour. 
Yolks  of  three  eggs. 
Butter  your  mould,  and  put  in  the  dark  and  light  batter  in 
alternate  tablespoonfuls. 

Marbled  Cake.  J 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar. 

3  "  flour. 

4  eggs. 

I  cup  sweet  milk. 
}^  teaspoonful  soda. 

I  "         cream-tartar  sifted  with  the  flour. 

When  the  cake  is  mixed  take  out  about  a  teacupful  of  the 
latter,  and  stir  into  this  a  great-spoonful  of  grated  chocolate, 
wet  with  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  milk.  Fill  your  mould  about 
an  inch  deep  with  the  yellow  batter,  and  drop  upon  this,  in 
i:wo  or  three  places,  a  spoonful  of  the  dark  mixture.    Give  to 


CAKE. 


199 


the  brown  spots  a  slight  stir  with  the  tip  of  your  spoon,  spread- 
ing i  in  broken  circles  upon  the  lighter  surface.  Pour  in  more 
yellow  batter,  then  drop  in  the  brown  in  the  same  manner  as 
before,  proceeding  in  this  order  until  it  is  all  used  up.  When 
,  the  cake  will  be  found  to  be  handsomely  variegated. 

Chocolate  Icing  {Simple) 
cake  chocolate, 
cup  sweet  milk. 
I  lablespoonful  corn-starch. 
I  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
Mix  together  these  ingredients,  with  the  exception  of  the 
vanilla;  boil  it  two  minutes  (after  it  has  fairly  come  to  a  boil), 
flavor,  and  then  sweeten  to  taste  with  powdered  sugar,  taking 
care  to  make  it  sweet  enough. 

Caramels  {Chocolate). 

2  cups  brown  sugar. 
I  cup  molasses. 

I  tablespoonful  (heaping)  of  butter. 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

Boil  twenty-five  minutes ;  then  stir  in  half  a  pound  of  grated 
chocolate  wet  in  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  boil  until  it  hard- 
ens on  the  spoon,  with  which  you  must  stir  it  frequently. 
Flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Ellie's  Cake.  % 
I  cup  of  sugar. 
^  butter. 
3  eggs. 

^  cup  sweet  milk. 

I  teaspoonful  cream-tartar. 

"  soda. 
2^  cups  flour. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  and  fill  with  jelly  or  chocolate.  A 
simple  and  excellent  cake. 


200 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Mrs.  M.'s  Sponge-Cake.  J 
12  eggs. 

The  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sugar. 

Half  their  weight  in  flour. 

I  lemon,  juice  and  rind. 
Beat  yolks  and  whites  very  light,  the  sugar  into  the  former 
when  they  are  smooth  and  stiff;  next,  the  juice  and  grated 
peel  of  the  lemon,  then  the  flour ;  lastly,  the  beaten  whites, 
very  lightly. 

The  lady  from  whom  I  had  this  admirable  receipt  was  cele- 
brated among  her  acquaintances  for  her  beautiful  and  deli- 
cious sponge-cake. 

"  Which  should  always  be  baked  in  tins  like  these,"  she  said 
to  me  once,  sportively,  "  or  it  does  not  taste  just  right." 

The  moulds  were  like  a  large  brick  in  shape,  with  almost 
perpendicular  sides.  I  instantly  gave  an  order  for  a  couple 
prec  ely  like  them,  and  really  fancied  that  cake  baked  in 
them  was  a  little  better  than  in  any  other  form.  But  you  can 
hardly  fail  of  success  if  you  prepare  yours  precisely  as  I  have 
directed,  bake  in  whatever  shape  you  will.  Be  careful  that 
your  oven  is  steady,  and  cover  the  cake  with  paper,  to  prevent 
burning. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  line  the  pans  in  which  sponge-cake  is 
baked  with  buttered  paper,  fitted  neatly  to  the  sides  and 
bottom. 

Pound  Cake. 
I  lb.  sugar. 

1  "  flour. 

butter. 
9  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
I       "  soda. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  with  great  care ;  beat  the  yolks 
and  whites  separately;  sift  the  cream-tarter  well  through  the 
flour.    Add  the  flour  last. 


CAKE. 


201 


Washington  Cake. 

3  cups  sugar. 
2    "  butter. 
5  eggs. 

1  cup  milk 

4  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
I  teaspoonful  soda. 

Mix  as  usual  and  stir  in,  at  the  last, 

lb.  currants  well  washed  and  dredged. 
%  "  raisins  seeded  and  chopped  fine,  then  floured. 
A  handful  of  citron  sliced  fine. 
Cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Fruit-cake  takes  longer  to  bake  than  plain,  and  the  heat 
must  be  kept  steady. 

Lincoln  Cake. 

I  lb.  butter. 
I  "  sugar. 

1  "  flour. 
6  eggs. 

2  cups  sour  cream  or  milk. 
I  grated  nutmeg. 

I  teaspoonful  powdered  cinnamon 
I  tablespoonful  rose-water. 

I  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  stirred  into 
the  milk  just  before  adding  the  latter  to  the  cake. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  put  with  them  the  yolks  whip- 
ped light,  then  the  cream  and  spice,  next  the  flour,  then  the 
rose-water,  and  a  double-handful  of  citron  cut  in  slips  and 
dredged ;  finally,  the  beaten  whites  of  ^he  eggs.  Stir  all  well, 
and  bake  in  a  loaf  or  in  a  "  card,"  using  a  square  shallow 
baking-pan. 

This  is  a  good  cake  and  keeps  well. 


202 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Black  or  Wedding  Cake. 
I  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
I  "  butter. 
I  "  flour. 
12  eggs. 

I  lb.  currants,  well  wished  and  dredged. 
I  ^'  raisins  seeded  fad  chopped. 
^2,  "  citron  cut  into  slips. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

2  teaspoonfuls  nutmeg. 
I         "  cloves. 
I  wineglass  brandy. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  and  stir  all  we/l  together  before  putting  in  half  of  the 
flour.  The  spice  should  come  next,  then  the  whipped  whites 
stirred  in  alternately  with  the  rest  of  the  flour,  lastly  the 
brandy. 

The  above  quantity  is  for  two  large  cakes.  Bake  at  least 
two  hours  in  deep  tins  lined  with  well  buttered  paper. 

The  icing  should  be  laid  on  stiff  and  thickly.    This  cake,  if 
kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  will  not  spoil  in  two  months. 
^„  I  hav^  eaten  wedding-cake  a  year  old. 

Test  the  cakes  well,  and  be  sure  they  are  quite  done  before 
taking  them  from  the  oven. 

Fruit-Cake  {plainer). 
I  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
I  "  flour. 
^  butter. 
7  eggs. 

lb.  currants — washed,  picked  over,  and  dredged 
^  "  raisins — seeded  and  chopped,  then  dredged 
y  "  citron  cut  into  slips. 
I  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
I         "  cinnamon. 
I  glass,  brand/. 


CAKE. 


203 


Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the 
spice  and  the  whipped  whites  alternately  with  the  flour ;  the 
fruit  and  brandy  last. 

Gold  Cake,  t 

I  lb.  sugar. 
^  lb.  butter. 
I  lb.  flour. 

Yolks  of  ten  eggs — well  beaten. 
Grated  rind  of  one  orange,  and  juice  of  two  lemons. 
I  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  stir  in  the  yolks.  Beat 
very  hard  for  five  minutes  before  putting  in  the  flour.  The 
soda  next,  and  lastly  the  lemon-juice,  in  which  the  grated 
orange-peel  should  have  been  steeped  and  strained  out  in  a 
piece  of  thin  muslin,  leaving  the  flavoring  and  coloring  matter 
in  the  juice. 

Flavor  the  icing  also  with  lemon. 

Silver  Cake.  J 

I  lb.  sugar. 
^  lb.  flour. 
5^  lb.  butter. 

Whites  of  ten  eggs— whipped  very  stiff. 
I  large  teaspoonful  essence  bitter  almonds. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  put  next  the  whites  of  the  eggs ; 
then  the  flour,  lastly  the  flavoring. 

Make  gold  and  silver  cake  on  the  same  day ;  bake  them  in 
tins  of  corresponding  size,  and  lay  them  in  alternate  slices  in 
the  cake-basket.  Flavor  the  icing  of  silver  rikf  with  rose-water. 

Almond  Macaroons. 
Prepare  the  almonds  the  day  before  you  make  the  cakes, 
by  blanching  them  in  boiling  water,  stripping  ofl"  the  skins, 
and  pounding  them  wht  ^.  perfectly  cold— a  few  at  a  time— in 
a  Wedgewood  mortar,  adding  from  time  to  time  a  little  rose- 


204 


COMMON  SENSE. 


water.    When  beaten  to  a  smooth  paste,  stir  in,  to  a  pound 
of  the  sweet  almonds,  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  essence  of 
bitter  almonds ;  cover  closely,  and  set  away  in  a  cold  place 
until  the  morrow.    Then  to  a  pound*  of  the  nuts  allow  : — 
I  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
The  beaten  whites  of  eight  eggs,  and 
I  teaspponful  nutmeg. 
Stir  the  sugar  and  white  of  egg  lightly  together ;  then  whip 
in  gradually  the  almond-paste. 

Line  a  broad  baking-pan  with  buttered  white  paper ;  drop 
upon  this  spoonfuls  of  the  mixture  at  such  distances  apart  as 
shall  prevent  their  running  together.  Sift  powdered  sugar 
thickly  upon  each,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  to  a  delicate 
brown. 

Try  the  mixture  first,  to  make  sure  it  is  of  the  right  con- 
sistency, and  if  the  macaroons  run  into  irregular  shapes,  beat 
in  more  sugar.  This  will  hardly  happen,  however,  if  the 
mixture  is  already  well  beaten. 

Corn-Starch  Cake.  J 

I  ^ Vutf er';  }  ^^^^^^  ^ 

1  cup  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

cup  corn-starch. 
2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar,  sifted  well  through  the  flour. 
I       "  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Sift  the  corn-starch  with  the  flour,  and  add  the  last  thing. 
Bake  in  small  tins  and  eat  while  fresh.  They  dry  in  two  or 
three  days  and  become  insipid,  but  are  very  nice  for  twenty- 
luur  hours  after  they  are  baked. 

White  Cake. 
cup  butter. 


CAKE. 


205 


2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 
Whites  of  five  eggs. 

3  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
I  "  soda. 

New  Year's  Cakes.    ( Very  nice.)  % 
i}(  lb.  sugar. 

1  lb.  butter. 

j4  pint  cold  water. 

2  eggs. 

3^  lbs.  flour. 

I  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

4  tablespoonfuls  caraway  seed  sprinkled  through  the  flour. 
Rub  the  butter,  or,  what  is  better,  chop  it  up  in  the  flour ; 
dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water;  mix  all  well  with  the  beaten 
eggs,  cut  in  square  cakes,  or  with  an  oval  mould,  and  bake 
quickly. 

'         "Mother's"  Cookies. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten. 

}(  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

I  "  nutmeg. 

}^        "  cloves. 
Flour  to  make  soft  dough,  just  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.  Try 
two  cups  to  begin  with,  working  it  in  gradually.  Cut  in  round 
cakes,  stick  a  raisin  or  currant  in  the  top  of  each,  and  bake 
quickly. 

Molasses  Cookies.  (Good.) 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  molasses. 

I  teaspoonful  cloves. 
I  tablespoonful  ginger. 


206 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Sufficient  flour  to  make  stiff  batter,  not  dough.  Mould 
with  the  hands  into  small  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  steady  rather 
than  quick  oven,  as  they  are  apt  to  burn. 

Ginger-Snaps.  X 
I  large  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed. 
I  coffee-cup  sugar. 
I  cup  molasses. 
Yo,  cup  water. 
I  tablespoonful  ginger. 
I         "  cinnamon. 
I        "  cloves. 
I  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Flour  for  pretty  stiff  dough. 
Roll  out  rather  thinner  than  sugar  cakes,  and  bake  quickly. 
These  ginger-snaps  will  keep  for  weeks,  if  locked  up. 

Aunt  Margaret's  Jumbles. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

I  teacup  milk. 
,  5  eggs. 

I  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
I  "  nutmeg. 

Sufficient  flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Roll  out,  cut  into 
shapes,  and  sift  sugar  over  them  before  they  go  into  the  oven. 

Lemon  Jumbles. 

I  egg. 

I  teacupful  sugar. 

"  butter. 
3  teaspoonfuls  milk. 

1  "  cream-tartar. 

y,         "  soda. 

2  small  lemon  >j  juice  of  two  and  grated  rind  of  one. 
Mix  rather  stiff.    Roll  and  cut  out  with  a  cake-cutter. 


CAKE. 


207 


Currant  Cakes. 

I  lb.  flour. 

lb.  butter. 
^  lb,  sugar. 
4  eggs. 

^  lb.  currants,  well  washed  and  dredged. 
Yz  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
y^,  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice. 
I  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

Drop  from  a  spoon  upon  well-buttered  paper,  lining  a  bak- 
ing-pan.   Bake  quickly. 

Drop  Sponge-Cake.  ^ 
y2  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
y^  lb.  flour. 

4  eggs — yolks  and  whites  separate,  and  beaten  very  stifl". 
I  lemon — all  the  juice,  and  half  the  grated  rind. 
Drop  upon  buttered  paper,  not  too  near  together.    Try  one, 
and  if  it  runs,  beat  the  mixture  some  minutes  longer  hard, 
adding  a  very  little  flour.    Your  oven  should  be  very  quick, 
and  the  cakes  a  delicate  yellow  brown. 

Lady's  Fingers 
Are  mixed  Hke  drop  sponge-cakes,  but  disposed  upon  the 
paper  in  long,  narrow  cakes.    They  are  very  nV,e  dipped  in 
chocolate  icing,  or  caramel. 

Aunt  Margaret's  Crullers,  t 
I  lb.  butter. 
ly^  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
12  eggs. 

Mace  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  ' 
Flour  to  roll  out  stiff.  ^tlmi 
This  is  for  a  large  quantity  of  crullers.    Roll  ort  in  a  thin 
sheet,  cut  into  shapes  with  a  jagging-iron,  and  iry  in  plenty  of 


208 


COMMON  SENSE. 


boiling  lard.  Test  the  heat  first  by  dropping  in  one.  It 
should  rise  almost  instantly  to  the  surface.  Crullers  and 
doughnuts  soak  in  fat  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  These 
should  be  a  fine  yellow. 

The  most  delicious  and  the  nicest  looking  crullers  I  have 
ever  seen  were  made  by  the  dear  old  lady  from  whom  I  had 
this  receipt.  They  were  as  pretty  and  perfect  a  picture  of  their 
kind  as  she  was  of  hers. 

Crullers  are  better  the  second  day  than  the  first.  If  the  fat 
becomes  so  hot  that  the  crullers  brown  before  they  puff  out  to 
their  full  dimensions,  take  the  kettle  from  the  fire  for  a  few 
minutes.  Have  enough  cut  out  before  you  begin  to  fry  them, 
to  keep  a  gopd  supply  all  the  while  on  the  fire.  If  you  under- 
take the  task  alone,  cut  out  all  before  cooking  one. 


i]4  teacup  sugar. 

^  teacup  sour  cream  or  milk. 

"  butter. 
I  egg. 

I  small  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water 
Flour  to  roll  out  a  tolerably  stiff  paste. 


"  Mother's"  Crullers. 


Quick  Doughnuts. 


1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 
4  eggs. 

I  cup  sour  milk  or  cream. 

I  tablespoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

I  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

yz        "  cinnamon 

Flour  to  roll  out  in  "pretty  soft  dough. 


Cut  into  shapes,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


Soft  Gingerbread.  J 


1  cup  butter. 


CAKE.  209 

I  cup  molasses. 
I    "  sugar. 

I    "   sour  or  buttermilk. 

I  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

I  tablespoonful  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

2  eggs. 

About  cups  of  flour-enough  to  make  it  thick  as  cup 
cake  batter,  perhaps  a  tnfle  thicker.  Work  in  four  cup  Z 
and  add  very  cautiously.  ^  ' 

Stir  butter,  sugar,  molasses,  and  spice  together  to  a  licrht 

I'ght,  add  the  milk  to  the  warmed  mixture,  then  the  e^^s  the 
soda,  and  lastly  the  flour.    Beat  very  hard  ten  minu  i 
bake  at  once  tn  a  loaf,  or  in  small  tins.    Half  a  pound  raisi  s 
seeded  and  cut  m  half,  will  improve  this  excellenf  gingerb  ea, 
Dredge  them  well  before  putting  them  in.    Add  t'hem  at Te 

Plain  Gingerbread. 
2  cups  molasses. 
}4  cup  lard, 
/4  cup  butter. 

2  teaspoonfuls  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 
I  cup  sour  milk. 

Thicken  with  flour  to  a  soff-  dough. 
Warm  the  molasses,  ],  rd,  butter,  and  ginc^er  ar  d  beat  tVn^ 
^—es  before  adding  the  milModJ^  /^^^^^ 
cut  into  shapes,  and  bake  in  a  qu^-c,  but  not  too  fot  oren' 
Keepinat,ghttmbox.  B..h  over  .  ith  whi.e  of  egg  wh^^ 
Gingerbread  Loaf. 

I  cup  butter. 

I  cup  molasses. 


210 


COMMON  SENSE. 


I  cup  sugar. 
^  cup  cold  water. 
I  tablespoonful  ginger. 
I  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

I         "         soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
Flour  to  make  stiff  batter. 

Melt  the  butter,  slightly  warm  the  molasses,  spice,  and 
sugar,  and  beat  together  ten  minutes.  Then  put  in  the  water, 
soda,  and  flour.  Stir  very  hard,  and  bake  in  three  small  loaves. 
Brush  them  over  with  syrup  while  hot,  and  eat  fresh. 

Bread  Cake. 

On  baking-day,  take  from  your  dough,  after  its  second  rising 
— 2  cups  risen  dough.    Have  ready,  also — 

2  cups  white  sugar, 

I  cup  butter,  creamed  with  the  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sweet  milk — cream  is  better. 
^  lb.  currants,  well  washed  and  dredged.  ' 
I  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

"  cloves. 

Beat  the  yolks  very  light,  add  the  creamed  butter  and 
sugar,  the  spice,  milk,  soda,  and  dough.  Stir  until  all  are  well 
mixed ;  put  in  the  beaten  whites,  lastly  the  fruit.  Beat  hard 
five  minutes,  let  it  rise  twenty  minutes  in  two  well-buttered 
pans,  and  bake  half  an  hour  or  until  done. 

Fruit  Gingerbread. 

2  lbs.  flour. 
%  lb.  butter. 
I  lb.  sugar. 

I  lb.  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  lb.  currants,  well  washed. 

2  cups  molasses. 


CAKE. 


211 


^  cup  sour  cream. 
6  eggs. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 
I  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
I  cloves. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  warm  the  molasses  slightly,  and 
beat  these  together ;  then  the  beaten  yolks,  next  the  milk  and 
spice,  the  soda,  the  flour  and  whites,  well  whipped ;  lastly  the 
fruit,  which  must  be  thickly  dredged.  Beat  well  before  baking. 

A  little  citron,  shred  fine,  is  an  improvement.  Bake  in  two 
broad  pans,  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  cake  will  keep  a  long 
time. 

Sweet  Wafers. 
6  eggs. 

1  pint  flour. 

2  oz.  melted  butter. 

I  ^  cup  powdered  sugar. 

I  cup  milk. 

I  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately  and  very  stiff,  rub  the  sugar 
and  butter  together,  and  work  in  first  the  yolks,  then  the  milk, 
then  the  flour  and  whites.  Bake  in  well-buttered  wafer  or 
waffle  irons,  very  quickly,  browning  as  little  as  possible.  Koll 
them  while  hot  upon  a  smooth,  round  stick,  not  larger  than 
your  little  finger,  slipping  it  out  carefully  when  the  cake  takes 
the  right  shape. 

These  little  cakes  are  an  acceptable  addition  to  any  tea  or 
supper  table,  and  look  well  among  fancy  cakes  in  a  basket. 

Boston  Cream  Cakes,  t 

•r 

yz  lb.  butter. 

lb  flour. 
8  eggs. 
I  pint  water. 


212 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Stir  the  butter  into  the  water,  which  should  be  warm,  set  it 
on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan,  and  slowly  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring 
it  often.  When  it  boils,  put  in  the  flour,  boil  one  minute, 
stirring  all  the  while  ;  take  from  the  fire,  turn  into  a  deep  dish, 
and  let  it  cool.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  whip  into  this 
cooled  paste,  first  the  yolks,  then  the  whites. 

Drop,  in  great  spoonfuls,  upon  buttered  paper,  taking  care 
not  to  let  them  touch  or  run  into  each  other,  and  bake  ten 
minutes. 

Cream  for  filling. 

1  quart  milk. 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch. 

2  eggs. 

2  cups  sugar. 

Wet  the  corn-starch  with  enough  milk  to  work  it  into  a  smooth 
paste.  Boil  the  rest  of  the  milk.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar 
and  corn-starch  to  these,  and  so  soon  as  the  milk  boils  pour 
in  the  m^Vture  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time  until  smooth  and 
thick.  Drop  in  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  when  this  is 
mixed  in,  set  the  custard  aside  to  cool.  Then  add  vanilla  or 
lemon  seasoning ;  pass  a  sharp  knife  lightly  around  the  puffs, 
split  them,  <and  fill  with  the  mixture. 

The  best  cream  cakes  1  iiave  ever  tasted  were  made  by  this 
somewhat  odd  receipt. 

Nougat. 

I  lb.  sweet  almonds. 

^  "  fine  white  sugar. 

I  tablespoonful  rose-water. 
Blanch  the  almonds  in  boiling  water.  When  stripped  of  their 
skins,  throw  them  into  ice-water  for  five  minutes.  Take  them 
out  and  dry  between  two  cloths  Shave  with  a  small  knife 
into  thin  slips.  Put  them  into  a  slow  oven  until  they  are  very 
slightly  colored.  Meanwhile,  melt  the  sugar — without  adding 
water-       a  porcelain  kettle  over  the  fire,  stirring  it  all  the 


PIES. 


213 


while  to  keep  it  from  burning.  When  it  bubbles  up  and  is 
quite  melted  take  off  the  kettle  and  instantly  stir  in  the  hot 
almonds.  Have  ready  a  tin  pan  or  mould,  well  buttered 
and  slightly  warmed.  Pour  in  the  nougat;  press  it  thin  and 
flat  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan  if  you  mean  to  cut  it  into  strips; 
to  all  sides  of  the  mould  if  you  intend  to  fill  it  with  syllabub 
or  macaroons.  Let  it  cool  in  the  mould,  for  the  latter  purpose, 
withdrawing  it  carefully  when  you  want  it.  If  you  cut  it  up, 
do  it  while  it  is  still  warm — not  hot. 

The  syrup  should  be  a  bright  yellow  before  putting  in  the 
almonds. 


PIES. 
Family  Pie-Crust.  J 
I  quart  flour. 

j4  lb.  lard,  sweet  and  firm. 

}^  "  butter. 

I  small  teacup  ice-water. 
Sift  the  flour  into  a  deep  wooden  bowl.  With  a  broad 
bladed  knife,  or  a  small  keen  "  chopper,"  cut  up  the  lard  into 
the  flour  until  it  is  fine  as  dust.  Wet  with  ice-water  in  a  stiff 
dough,  working  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  obliged  to  make 
it  into  a  roll  or  ball  with  your  hands.  Flour  these,  and  knead 
the  paste  into  shape  with  as  few  strokes  as  will  effect  your  end. 
Lay  the  lump  upon  a  floured  kneading-board  and  roll  it  out 
into  a  thin  sheet,  always  rolling  from  you  with  quick,  light 
action.  When  thin  enough,  stick  bits  of  butter  in  regular 
close  rows  all  over  the  sheet,  using  a  knife  for  this  purpose 
rather  than  your  hands.  Roll  up  the  paste  into  close  folds  as 
you  would  a  sheet  of  music.  Flatten  it  that  your  rolling-pin 
can  take  hold,  and  roll  out  again  as  thin  as  before.  Baste,  roll 
up  and  then  out,  until  your  butter  is  gone.  It  is  a  good  plan 
to  sprinkle  the  inside  of  each  sheet  with  a  little  flour  after 


214  COMMON  SENSE. 

buttering  it,  before  making  it  into  a  roll.  Finally,  make  out 
your  crust;  butter  your  pie-plates,  lay  the  paste  lightly  witjain 
them,  cut  it  off  evenly  about  the  edges  after  fitting  it  ueat^y;* 
gather  up  the  scraps  left  from  cutting,  and  make  into  another 
sheet.  If  the  pies  are  to  have  a  top  crust,  fill  the  plates  with 
fruit  or  whatever  }  ou  have  ready,  lay  the  paste  on  this,  cut  it 
to  fit,  and  press  down  the  edges  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the 
juice,  with  a  spoon,  knife,  or  jagging-iron,  ornamenting  it  in  a 
regular  figure. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  light  brown.  Be  particu- 
larly careful  to  have  your  heat  as  great  at  the  bottom  as  at  the 
top,  or  the  lower  crust  will  be  clammy  and  raw. 

Pastry  is  always  best  when  fresh. 

It  is  well,  when  you  can  spare  the  time,  to  lay  the  roll,  when 
all  the  butter  is  used  up,  in  a  very  cold  place  for  fifteen 
minutes  or  so  before  rolling  it  into  crust.  Indeed,  some  good 
housewives  let  it  stand  on  the  ice  an  hour  in  hot  weather- 
They  say  it  tends  to  make  it  flaky  as  well  as  firm. 

Touch  as  little  with  your  hands  as  may  be  practicable. 

Puff-Paste 

^  I  pint  flour. 
%  lb.  butter. 

I  egg,  well  beaten.  Use  the  yolk  only. 
I  gill  ice-water. 
Mix  the  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  beaten  egg  and 
ice-water  into  a  paste  M'ith  a  wooden  spoon.  Flour  your 
pastry-board,  and  roll  out  the  crust  very  thin.  Put  the  rest  of 
the  butter,  when  you  have  washed  it,  in  the  centre  of  this 
sheet,  in  a  flat  cake.  Turn  the  four  corners  of  the  paste  over  it, 
and  roll  out  carefully,  not  to  break  the  paste.  Should  it  give 
way,  flour  the  spot,  that  it  may  not  stick  to  the  roller.  When 
very  thin,  sprinkle  hghtly  with  flour,  fold  up,  and  roll  out  four 
times  more.  Set  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour,  roll  out  again, 
and  cut  into  tartlet-shells  or  top  crust  for  pies. 


PIES. 


215 


The  bot  om  crust  of  pies  may  often  be  made  of  plainer 
pas't.  y  than  the  upper. 

Transparent  Crust.    (Very  n'c/i.) 

I  lb.  flour. 
I  lb.  butter, 

I  egg — the  yo]k  only. 
Wash  the  butter,  dry,  and  then  melt  it  in  a  vessel  set  in 
another  of  boiling  water,  stirring  gently  all  the  while  to  pre- 
vent oiling.  Take  off  the  salty  scum  from  the  top,  and  when 
almost  cold  beat  up  the  butter  little  by  little  with  the  egg, 
which  should  be  previously  whipped  light.  When  these  are 
thoroughly  incorporated  work  in  the  flour,  roll  out  twice, 
sprinkling  Hghtly  with  flour  before  you  fold  it  up ;  let  it  stand 
folded  five  minutes  in  a  cold  place,  and  make  out  for  tartlets  or 
J>dfes.  It  is  not  suitable  for  large  pies.  Bake  before  you  fill 
them,  and  brush  over  with  a  beaten  egg  while  hot. 

Mince  Pies,  t 
2  lbs.  lean  fresh  beef,  boiled,  and  when  cold,  chopped  fine. 

1  lb.  beef-suet,  cleared  of  strings  and  minced  to  rowder. 
5  lbs.  apples,  pared  and  chopped. 

2  lbs.  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  lb.  sultana  raisins,  washed  and  picked  over. 

2  lbs.  currants,  washed  and  carefully  picked  over. 

lb.  citron,  cut  up  fine. 
2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon. 

1  powdered  nutmeg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  mace. 
I  tablespoonful  cloves. 
I  tablespoonful  allspice. 

1  tablespoonful  fine  salt. 

2  ^/i  lbs.  brown  sugar.  H 
I  quart  brown  sherry. 
I  pint  best  brandy. 


216 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Mince-meat  made  by  this  receipt  will  keep  all  winter  in  a 
cool  place.  Keep  in  stone  jars,  tied  over  with  double  covers. 
Add  a  little  more  liquor  (if  it  should  dry  out),  when  you 
make  up  a  batch  of  pies.  Let  the  mixture  stand  at  least 
twenty-four  hours  after  it  is  made  before  it  is  used. 

Lay  strips  of  pastry,  notched  with  a  jagging-iron,  in  a  cross- 
bar pattern,  upon  the  pie,  instead  of  a  top-crust. 

I  take  this  opportunity  of  warning  the  innocent  reader 
Against  placing  any  confidence  whatever  in  dried  currants.  I 
years  ago  gave  over  trying  to  guess  who  put  the  dirt  in  them. 
It  is  always  there  !  gravel-stones  lurking  under  a  specious  coat- 
ing of  curranty-looking  paste,  to  crucify  grown  people's  nerves 
and  children's  teeth;  mould  that  changes  to  mud  in  the 
mouth ;  twigs  that  prick  the  throat,  not  to  mention  the  legs, 
wings,  and  bodies  of  tropical  insects — a  curious  study  to  one 
interested  in  the  entomology  of  Zante.  It  is  all  dirt  I  although 
sold  to  us  at  currant  prices. 

Wash  your  currants,  therefore,  first  in  warm  water,  rolling 
up  your  sleeves,  and  rubbing  the  conglomerate  masses  apart, 
as  you  would  scrub  a  muddy  garment.  Drain  them  in  a 
cullender^  and  pass  them  through  three  more  waters — cold 
now,  but  cleansing.  Then  spread  them  upon  a  large  dish,  and 
enter  seriously  upon  your  geological  and  entomological  re- 
searches. "  Sultanas" — sweet  and  seedless — are  nearly  as 
troublesome,  but  their  specialty  is  more  harmless,  being  sticki- 
ness and  stems. 

Nevertheless,  since  John  has  a  weakness  for  mince-pies  (I 
never  saw  an  un-dyspeptic  man  who  had  not),  it  is  worth  your 
while  to  make  them,  having  this  consolation,  that  if  you  are 
wise  you  need  not  engage  in  the  manufacture  oftener  than 
once,  or  at  most,  twice  in  a  winter.  But  let  the  children  taste 
them  sparingly,  and  neve]  at  night,  if  you  value  their  health 
and  your  own  sound  slumbers. 


PIES. 


217 


Apple  Mince-Meat. 

2  lbs.  apples — pared  and  chopped. 

^  lb.  beef-suet — cleared  of  strings  and  powdered. 

I  lb.  currants. 

lb.  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 
^  lb.  sultana  raisins. 
y  lb.  citron,  cut  into  shreds. 
I  lemon — juice  and  grated  rind. 
I  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 
I  teaspoonful  cloves. 
I         "  mace. 

1  tablespoonful  allspice. 

2  lbs.  brown  sugar. 
Half-pint  best  brandy. 
A  glass  of  wine. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

Pack  down  in  a  stone  jar,  with  close  cover  and  keep  m  a 
cool  place. 

Mock  Mince-Meat.  % 
6  soda  crackers — rolled  fine. 
2  cups  cold  water. 
I  cup  molasses. 
I  cup  brown  sugar. 
I  cup  sour  cider. 

cup  melted  butter. 
I  cup  raisins — seeded  and  chopped. 

1  cup  currants. 

2  eggs — beaten  light. 

I  tablespoonful  cinnamon  and  allspice  mixed. 

I  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

I         "  cloves. 

I         "  salt. 

I  black  pepper. 

I  wineglass  of  brandy. 


218 


COMMON  SENSE. 


"  Mince-pie  in  summer  is  a  pleasant  rarity,"  was  the  remark 
of  a  party  of  hungry  travellers,  in  semi-apology  for  the  fact 
that  every  plate  made  a  return  journey  to  the  comely  land- 
lady, who  was  dispensing  generous  triangles  of  pie.  She 
smiled  gratifiedly,  but  said  nothing  in  reply,  until,  when  the 
gentleman  had  strolled  off  to  the  woods  with  their  cigars,  she 
came  upon  me,  seated  alone  on  the  piazza,  and  grew  confiden- 
tial under  the  influence  of  that  sort  of  free-masonic  under- 
standing housekeepers  have  with  one  another,  almost  at  sight. 

"  I  had  to  laugh,"  said  the  good  soul,  "  when  they  praised 
my  mince-pies.  They're  healthfuller  in  summer  time  than 
the  real  thing." 

I  took  down  the  receipt  on  the  spot  from  her  Hps.  If  any 
one  doubts  the  merits  of  the  counterfeit,  let  her  do  as  I  did — 
try  it. 

Apple  Pie.  | 

t  IS^ew  green  or  ripe  apples  when  you  have  pared  and  cored 
mem.  Mash  to  a  smooth  compote,  sweeten  to  taste,  and, 
while  hot,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  butter  for  each  pie.  Season 
with  nutmeg.  When  cool,  fill  your  crust,  and  either  cross-bar 
the  tops  with  strips  of  paste  or  bake  without  cover. 
Eat  cbld,  with  powdered  sugar  strewed  over  it. 

Apple  Custard  Pie,  % 
3  cups  stewed  apple. 
Nearly  a  cup  white  sugar. 
6  eggs. 
I  quart  milk. 

Make  the  stewed  apple  very  sweet,  and  let  it  cool.  Beat 
the  eggs  light,  and  mix  the  yolks  well  with  the  apple,-  seasoning 
with  nutmeg  only.  Then  stir  in  gradually  the  milk,  beating  as 
you  go  on ;  lastly  add  the  whites ;  fill  your  crust  and  bake 
without  cover. 

Apple  Meringue  Pies,  i 
.  Stew  and  sweeten  ripe,  juicy  apples,  when  you  have  pared 

'4 


"     PIES.  219 

and  sliced  them.  Mash  smooth,  and  season  with  nutmeg 
If  you  hke  the  flavor,  stew  some  lemon-peel  with  the  apple 
and  remove  when  cold.  Fill  your  cru.t,  and  bake  until  jus^ 
done.  Spread  over  the  apple  a  thick  me'ringue,  made  by 
whipping  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  three  eggs  for  each  pie, 
sweetenmg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  for  each 
egg.  Flavor  this  with  rose-water  or  vanilla ;  beat  until  it  will 
stand  a  one,  and  cover  the  pie  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick, 
bet  back  m  the  oven  until  the  meringue  is  well  "set."  Should 
It  color  too  darkly,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  it  when  cole. 
Eat  cold. 

They  are  very  fine. 

Peach  pies  are  even  more  delicious,  made  in  this  manner. 
Pumpkin  Pie,  | 

1  quart  stewed  pumpkin— pressed  through  a  sieve. 
9  eggs— whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

2  quarts  milk. 

I  teaspoor/ul  mace. 

^         "        cinnamon,  and  the  same  of  nutmeg.    '  > 
ij^  cup  white  sugar,  or  very  light  brown 
Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  cru.t  without  cover. 

Squash  Pie 

Is  made  precisely  hke  pumpkin  pie,  except  that,  being  less  ric 
It  requires  one  more  egg  for  each  pie. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie  t 

I  lb.  mealy  sweet  potatoes.    The  firm  yellow  ones  are  best 

y2  cup  butter. 

Y    "   white  sugar. 

I  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

I  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

4  eggs— whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
1  lemon,  juice  and  rind,  and  glass  of  brandy. 


220 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Parboil  the  potatoes,  and  grate  them  when  quite  cold.  If 
grated  hot,  they  are  sticky  and  heavy.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar;  add  the  yolk,  the  spice,  and  lemon ;  beat  the  potato  in 
by  degrees  and  until  all  is  light ;  then  the  brandy,  and  stir  in 
the  whites.  Bake  in  dishes  lined  with  good  paste — without 
cover. 

You  may  make  a  pudding  of  this  by  baking  in  a  deep  dish 
— well  buttered,  without  paste.    Cool  before  eating. 

Irish  Potato  Pie  {or  Pudding).  % 
I  lb.  mashed  potato,  rolled  through  a  cullender. 
y^,  lb.  butter — creamed  with  the  sugar 
6  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separately. 
I  lemon — squeezed  into  the  potato  while  hot. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  same  of  mace. 

2  cups  white  sugar. 

Mix  as  you  do  sweet  potato  pudding,  and  bake  in  open 
shells  of  paste.    To  be  eaten  cold. 

Lemon  Pie  {or  Transparent  Pudding).  % 
y^.  lb.  butter. 
I  lb.  sugar. 

6  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separately. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Grated  rind  of  two. 

I  nutmeg. 

y^  glass  brandy. 
Cream,  butter  and  sugar,  beat  in  the  yolks,  the  lemon,  spice 
and  brandy,  stirring  in  the  whites  at  the  last. 
Bake  in  pie-crust,  open. 

You  may,  if  you  wish  to  have  these  very  nice,  beat  up  the 
whites  of  but  four  eggs  in  the  mixture,  and  whip  the  whites  of 
four  more  into  a  meringue  with  four  tablespoonfuls  sugar 
and  a  little  lemon-juice,  to  spread  over  the  top  of  each  pie. 

Eat  cold.    They  are  very  nice  baked  in  pattypans. 


PIES. 


221 


Lemon  Pie 

3  eggs. 

I  great  spoonful  butter. 

^  cup  white  sugar. 

Juice  and  grated  peel  of  lemon 

Bake  in  open  shells  of  paste. 
Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  and 
the  lemon,  and  bake.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  meringue 
with  three  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar  and  a  little  rose- 
water.  When  the  pies  are  done,  take  from  the  oven  just  long 
enough  to  spread  the  meringue  over  the  top,  and  set  back  for 
three  minutes.  This  mixture  is  enough  for  two  small,  or  one 
good-sized  pie.    Eat  cold. 

Orange  Pie. 

3  eggs. 

^  cup  of  white  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

I  orange— juice  and  half  the  grated  rind. 

^  lemon — ^juice  and  grated  peel. 

Nutmeg  to  taste. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  beating  in  the  orange  and 
lemon  until  very  light ;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  fill  two  pastry 
shells  and  bake.  Beats  the  whites  stiff  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
powdered  sugar,  and  when  the  pies  are  done,  spread  over 
them,  returning  to  the  oven  for  three  or  four  minutes. 

Lemon  Tart. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  lemons— all  the  juice,  and  a  teaspoonful  grated  peel. 

Yr,  teaspoonful  corn-starch,  dissolved  in  a  litde  cold  water. 
A  dozen  raisins  stewed,  cut  in  two  and  seeded. 
Beat  up  well,  and  bake  with  upper  and  lower  crust. 

Orange  Tartlets. 
3  fine  Havana  oranges,  juice  of  both,  and  grated  peel  of  one. 


222 


COMMON  SENSE. 


^  cup  of  sugar — cup  if  the  oranges  are  very  sweet. 
I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

^  lemon — ^juice  only,  to  wet  i  teaspoonful  corn-starch. 
Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  tartlet  shells  without 
cover. 

Chocolate  Tarts. 
4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks. 
^  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  grated. 

1  tablespoonful  corn-starch  dissolved  in  water. 

3  "  milk. 

4  "         white  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla. 
I  saltspoonful  salt. 

teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
I         "        butter,  melted. 

Rub  the  chocolate  smooth  in  the  milk  and  heat  to  boiling 
over  the  fire,  then  stir  in  the  corn-starch.  Stir  five  minutes 
until  well  thickened,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  pour  into  a 
bowl.  Beat  all  the  yolks  and  whites  of  two  eggs  well  with  the 
sugar,  and  when  the  chocolate  mixture  is  almost  cold,  put  all 
together  with  the  flavoring,  and  stir  until  light.  Bake  in  open 
shells  6i  pastry.  When  done,  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  fla- 
vored with  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice.    Eat  cold. 

These  are  nice  for  tea,  baked  in  pattypans. 

Cocoa-nut  Pie. 
I  lb.  grated  cocoa-nut. 
y^  lb.  butter. 
^  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

1  glass  of  brandy. 

2  teaspoonfuls  lemon-juice. 

4  eggs — white  and  yolks  separated. 
?.  teaspoonfuls  vanilla. 


PIES. 


223 


Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  beat  light  with  the 
brandy  and  lemon-juice ;  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks ;  lastly  the 
cocoa-nut  and  the  whites,  alternately.    Bake  in  open  shells. 

Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  over  it. 

Cocoa-nut  Custard  Pie. 
I  lb.  cocoa-nut,  grated. 
}4,  lb.  powdered  sugar. 
I  quart  milk,  unskimmed. 
6  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  rose-water. 

Boil  the  milk,  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  whip  in  gradually 
the  beaten  eggs.  When  nearly  cold  season;  add  the  cocoa- 
nut,  and  pour  into  paste-shells.  Do  not  boil  the  egg  and 
milk  together.    Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Some  put  the  custard  quite  raw  into  the  pie-dishes,  but  the 
cocoa-nut  is  apt,  in  that  case,  to  settle  at  the  bottom. 

You  may,  however,  pour  the  raw  mixture  into  cups,  and 
bake  by  setting  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  stirring  well  once, 
as  they  begin  to  warm.  This  is  cocoa-nut  cup-custard,  and  is 
much  liked. 

Corn-Starch  Custard  Pie.  | 
6  eggs. 
3  pints  milk. 

6  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 
2  "  corn-starch. 
2  teaspoonfuls  essence  bitter  almonds. 

Boil  the  milk,  stir  in  the  corn-starch  wet  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  boil  one  minute.  When  nearly  cold,  stir  in  the 
sugar,  the  yolks  of  all  the  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  two ;  flavor, 
and  pour  into  your  paste-shells.  Whip  the  remaining  whites 
to  a  meringue,  with  two  tablespoonsfuls  white  sugar  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  when  the  custard  is  just  "  set," 


224 


COMMON  SENSE. 


draw  your  pies  to  the  edge  of  the  oven  to  spread  this  over 
them.  Do  it  quickly,  lest  the  custard  fall  by  exposure  to  the 
air. 

You  may  bake  this  as  a  pudding  by  omitting  the  pastry. 
Eat  cold. 

If  you  have  not  corn-starch,  substitute  arrow-root  or 
rice-flour. 

Custard  Pie, 

4  eggs. 

I  quart  of  milk. 
4  tablespoonfuls  white  sug:ar. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  or  other  essence. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  light,  and  mix  with  the  milk; 
flavor,  whip  in  the  whites,  which  should  be  already  a  stiff  froth, 
mix  well,  and  pour  into  shells.    Grate  nutmeg  upon  the  top. 

Bake  this  as  cup-custard,  or  a  custard  pudding,  in  cups  or 
a  deep  dish  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 

Peach  Pie.  J 

Peel,  stone,  and  slice  the  peaches.  Line  a  pie-plate  witfi  a 
good  crust,  and  lay  in  your  fruit,  sprinkling  sugar  liberally 
over  them  in  proportion  to  their  sweetness.  Very  ripe  peaches 
require  comparatively  little.  Allow  three  peach  kernels, 
chopped  fine,  to  each  pie ;  pour  in  a  very  little  water,  and 
bake  with  an  upper  crust,  or  with  cross-bars  of  paste  across 
the  top. 

Some  simply  pare  the  peaches  and  put  in  whole,  packing 
them  well,  and  sweetening  freely.  In  this  case  they  should 
e  covered  entirely  with  crust. 

For  one  of  the  most  delightful  pies  that  can  be  made  of  any 
fruit,  look  for  apph  meringue  pie,  and  substitute  peaches.  I  can 
peaches  expressly  to  have  peach  meringues  in  winter-time. 

Cherry  Pie. 

Line  the  dish  with  a  good  crust,  and  fill  with  ripe  cherries, 


PIES. 


225 


regulating  the  quantity  of  sugar  you  scatter  over  them  by 
their  sweetness.    Cover  and  bake. 

Eat  cold,  with  white  sugar  sifted  over  the  top. 

Blackberry,  Raspberry,  and  Plum  Pies 
Are  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Currant  and  Raspberry  Tart.  | 
To  three  cups  of  currants  allow  one  of  raspberries.  Mix 
well  together  before  you  fill  the  crust,  and  sweeten  abundantly. 
,  Cover  with  crust  and  bake. 

Eat  cold,  with  white  sugar  sifted  over  it. 

Currant  Tart 
Is  made  as  above,  with  more  sugar.  The  most  common  fault 
of  currant  pie  is  extreme  sourness.  Small  fruits  should  be 
looked  over  carefully  before  they  are  cooked.  Currants  are 
troublesome,  but  they  must  nevertheless  be  looked  after 
warily  on  account  of  their  extreme  stemminess. 

Green  Gooseberry  Tart.  J 
Top  and  tail  the  gooseberries.  Put  in  a  porcelain  kettle 
with  enough  water  to  prevent  burning,  and  stew  slowly  until 
they  break.  Take  them  off,  sweeten  we/l,  and  set  aside  to 
cool.  When  cold  pour  into  pastry  shells,  and  bake  with  a 
top  crust  of  puff-paste.  Brush  all  over  with  beaten  egg  while 
hot,  set  back  in  the  oven  to  glaze  for  three  minutes. 
Eat  cold. 

Ripe  Gooseberry  Pie. 
Top  and  tail  the  berries.    Line  your  dish  with  crust,  and 
fill  with  berries,  strewing  white  sugar  among  them.  Cover 
and  bake. 

Damson  Tart. 
Pick  over  the  fruit,  put  in  a  dish  lined  with  pastry,  sweeten 
very  freely,  cover  and  bake.    Brush  with  beaten  egg  when 
done,  and  return  to  the  oven  for    few  minutes  to  glaze. 
O 


226 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Cranberry  Tart. 
Wash  and  pick  over  the  berries.  Put  into  a  porcelain  sauce- 
pan with  a  very  little  water,  and  simmer  until  they  burst  open 
and  become  soft.  Run  through  a  cullender  to  remove  the 
skins,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Bake  in  pastry  shells,  with  a  cross- 
bar of  pastry  over  the  top. 

Strawberry  Pie. 
Cap  and  pick  over  the  berries,  arrange  in  layers,  besprinkle 
with  a  good  coating  of  sugar,  in  a  shell  pastry.    Fill  it  very 
full,  as  strawberries  shrink  very  much  in  cooking.    Cover  with 
crust  and  bake. 

Huckleberry  pie  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Cream  Raspberry  Tart,  t 

Line  a  dish  with  paste  and  fill  with  raspberries,  made  very 

sweet  with  powdered  sugar.    Cover  with  paste,  but  do  not 

pinch  it  down  at  the  edges.    When  done,  lift  the  top  crust 

which  should  be  thicker  than  usual,  and  pour  upon  the  fruit 

the  following  mixture  :—  •    i.    .  j 

I  small  cup  of  milk— half  cream,  if  you  can  get  it,  heated  to 

^""whles  of  two  eggs,  beaten  Hght  and  stirred  into  the  boiling 
milk. 

I  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

1/  teaspoonful  corn  starch  wet  in  cold  milk. 

Boil  these  ingredients  three  minutes;  let  them  get  perfectly 
cold  before  you  put  them  into  the  tart.  Replace  the  top  crust, 
and  set  the  pie  aside  to  cool.    Sprinkle  sugar  over  the  top 

before  serving. 

You  make  strawberry  cream  tart  in  the  same  manner. 

Rhubarb  Tart.  (Oj^en.) 
Skin  the  stalks  with  care,  cut  into  small  pieces;  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  very  little  water,  and  stew  slowly  until  soft. 


PUDDINGS. 


227 


Sweeten  while  hot,  but  do  not  cook  the  sugar  with  the  fruit. 
It  injures  the  flavor,  by  making  it  taste  like  preserves.  Have 
ready  some  freshly-baked  shells.  Fill  up  with  the  fruit  and 
they  are  ready  to  serve. 

Rhubarb  Pie.  {Covered.) 

Skim  the  stalks,  cut  in  lengths  of  half  an  inch  ;  strew  lavishly 
with  sugar,  and  fill  the  crusts  with  the  raw  fruit.  Some  scatter 
seedless  raisins  among  the  rhubarb.  Cover,  and  bake  nearly 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Brush  with  egg  while  hot,  and  re- 
turn to  the  oven  to  glaze. 

Eat  cold,  as  you  do  all  fruit-pies. 


PUDDINGS. 

Apple  Meringue  Pudding. 

I  pint  stewed  apples. 

3  eggs— white  and  yolk  separate. 

Yri  cup  white  sugar,  and  one  teaspoonful  butter. 

I  teaspoonful  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  mixr^d. 

I         "        essence  bitter  almond  (for  the  meringue). 

Sweeten  and  spice,  and,  while  the  apple  is  still  very  hot,  stir 
in  the  butter,  and,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  yolks.  Beat' all  light, 
pour  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  ten  minutes.  Cover, 
without  drawing  from  the  oven,  with  a  meringue  made  of  the 
beaten  whites,  two  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar,  and  the  bitter 
almond  seasoning.  Spread  smoothly  and  quickly,  close  the 
oven  again,  and  brown  very  slightly. 

Eat  cold,  with  white  sugar  sifted  over'  the  top,  and  send 
around  cream  to  pour  over  it  instead  of  sauce. 

Sweet  Apple  Pudding.  % 

I  quart  milk. 
4  eggs. 


228 


COMMON  SENSE. 


3  cups  chopped  apple. 

I  lemon — all  the  juice  and  half  the  rind. 

Nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  vinegar. 
Flour  for  a  stiff  batter. 
Beat  the  yolks  very  light,  add  the  milk,  seasoning  and  flour 
Stir  hard  five  minutes,  and  beat  in  the  apple,  then  the  whites, 
lastly  the  soda,  well  mixed  in. 

Bake  in  two  square  shallow  pans  one  hour,  and  eat  hot, 
with  sweet  sauce.  Much  of  the  success  of  this  pudding  de- 
pends upon  the  mixing— almost  as  much  upon  the  baking. 
Cover  with  paper  when  half  done,  to  prevent  hardening. 

Pippin  Pudding,  t 
8  fine  pippins,  pared,  cored,  and  sliced,  breaking  them  as 

little  as  possible. 
^  cup  very  fine  bread-crumbs. 
2  tablespoonfuls  butter — melted. 
2  eggs — whites  and  yolks  separate. 
^  cup  sugar. 
I  oz.  citron,-  shred  finely. 

I  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  a  dozen  whole  cloves. 

I  cup  milk  or  cream. 
Soak  the  bread-crumbs  in  the  milk,  cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  and  beat  into  this  the  yolks.  Next,  adding  the  milk  and 
soaked  bread,  stir  until  very  smooth  and  light.  Put  m  the 
nutmeg  and  citron,  and  whip  in  the  whites  lightly.  Butter  a 
deep  dish,  and  put  in  your  sliced  apple,  sprinkling  each  piece 
well  with  sugar,  and  scattering  the  cloves  among  them.  Pour 
the  custard  you  have  prepared  over  them,  and  bake  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

Sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  top,  and  eat  cold. 

Brown  Betty.  J 
I  cup  bread-crumbs. 


PUDDINGS. 


229' 


2  cups  chopped  apples — tart. 
^  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  cut  into  small  bits. 

Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  a  layer  of  the  chopped  apple  at 
the  bottom ;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  a  few  bits  of  butter,  and  cin- 
namon ;  cover  with  bread-crumbs ;  then  more  apple.  Proceed 
in  this  order  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  a  layer  of  crumbs  at 
top.  Cover  closely,  and  steam  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven ;  then  uncover  and  brown  quickly. 

Eat  warm  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  sweet  sauce. 

This  is  a  homely  but  very  good  pudding,  especially  for  the 
children's  table.    Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked. 

Apple  and  Plum  Pudding 
^  lb.  fine  tart  apples,  pared  and  chopped. 
^  lb.  sugar. 
^  lb.  flour. 

y2  lb.  beef  suet,  rubbed  fine. 

^  lb.  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

6  eggs. 

I  teaspoonful  nutmeg  and  the  same  powdered  cloves. 
I         "  salt. 

y2  glass  brown  sherry  and  the  same  of  brandy. 

Stir  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar  very  light,  add  the  suet  and 
apples  with  the  spice ;  then  the  raisins,  well  dredged  with 
flour;  next  the  flour,  and,  when  this  is  all  in,  the  liquor; 
lastly,  the  whites  beaten  very  stifl".  Bake  in  two  buttered 
moulds,  in  a  moderate  oven,  an  hour  and  a  half  at  least.  Eat 
hot,  with  sauce. 

You  may  boil  this  pudding  if  you  like. 

Apple  and  Tapioca  Pudding.  % 
I  teacupful  tapioca. 

6  apples — ^juicy  and  weil-flavored  pippins— pared  and  cored. 


230 


COMMON  SENSE. 


I  quart  water. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 

Cover  the  tapioca  with  three  cups  of  lukewarm  water,  and 
set  it  in  a  tolerably  warm  place  to  soak  five  or  six  hours,  stirring 
now  and  then.  Pack  your  apples  in  a  deep  dish,  adding  a 
cup  of  lukewarm  water ;  cover  closely  and  steam  in  a  moder 
ate  oven  until  soft  all  through,  turning  them  as  they  cook  at 
bottom.  If  the  dish  is  more  than  a  third  full  of  liquid,  turn 
some  of  it  out  before  you  pour  the  soaked  tapioca  over  all. 
Unless  your  apples  are  very  sweet,  fill  the  centre  with  sugar 
and  stick  a  clove  in  each,  just  before  you  cover  with  the 
tapioca.  Indeed,  I  always  do  this.  It  softens  the  hard  acid 
of  the  fruit.    Bake,  after  the  tapioca  goes  in,  one  hour. 

Eat  warm,  with  sweet  hard  sauce. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings.  % 

1  quart  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lard — or  half  butter  is  better. 
2  cups  of  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  cream-tartar,  sifted  into  the  dry  flour. 
I  saltspoonful  salt. 

Chop  the  shortening  into  the  flour  after  you  have  sifted 
this  and  the  cream-tartar  together ;  put  in  the  soda  and  wet 
up  quickly — just  stiff  enough  to  roll  into  a  paste  less  than 
half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into  squares,  and  lay  in  the  centre  of 
each  a  juicy,  tart  apple,  pared  and  cored;  bring  the  corners 
of  the  squares  neatly  together  and  pinch  them  slightly.  Lay 
in  a  buttered  baking-pan,  the  joined  edges  downward,  and 
bake  to  a  fine  brown.  When  done,  brush  over  with  beaten 
egg,  and  set  back  in  the  oven  to  glaze  for  two  or  three  min- 
utes. Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them,  and  eat  hot  with  rich 
sweet  sauce. 

I  greatly  prefer  the  above  simple  crust  for  all  kinds  of 


PUDDINGS.  231 

dumplings,  to  the  rich  paste  which  becomes  heavy  so  soon  as 
it  begins  to  cool.  It  is  also  more  quickly  and  easily  made, 
and  far  more  wholesome  than  pastry. 

Tapioca  Pudding.  | 
I  cup  tapioca. 

1  quart  milk. 

5  eggs— whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  melted. 
2         "  sugar. 

Soak  the  tapioca,  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it,  two 
hours;  drain  off  the  water,  if  it  be  not  all  absorbed;  soak 
two  hours  longer  in  the  milk,  which  should  be  slightly  warmed 
When  the  tapioca  is  quite  soft,  beat  the  sugar  and  butter 
together;  add  the  yolks,  the  milk  and  tapioca,  lastly  the 
whites.  ^  Stir  very  well,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish.  Eat 
warm  with  sweet  sauce. 

You  may  make  a  sago  pudding  in  the  same  way. 

Corn-Starch  Meringue.  | 
4  eggs. 

I  quart  of  milk. 
^  cup  sugar. 

4  teaspoonfuls  corn-starch, 
cup  fruit-jelly  or  jam. 
Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  the  corn-starch,  which 
has  previously  been  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Boil  fif- 
teen minutes,  stirring  all  the  while.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  while  still  hot,  add  gradually  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten 
up  with  the  sugar  and  seasoned  with  vanilla,  lemon,  or  bitter 
almond.  ^  Pour  this  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake 
fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  custard  begins  to  "  set."  Without 
withdrawing  it  further  than  the  door  of  the  oven,  spread 
lightly  ^x^d.quickly  upon  this  a  meringue  of  the  whites  whipped 
up  stiff  with  a  half-cup  jelly— add  gradually.    Use  crab-apple 

1" 


232 


COMMON  SENSE. 


jelly,  if  bitter  almond  has  been  put  into  the  custard;  currant, for 
vanilla ;  strawberry  or  other  sweet  conserve,  if  you  season  the 
custard  with  lemon.    Bake,  covered,  for  five  minutes.  Then 
remove  the  lid,  and  brown  the  mermgue  very  slightly. 
Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  thickly  over  the  top. 

Arrow-root  Pudding 
Is  made  according  to  either  of  the  foregoing  receipts,  substi- 
tuting arrow-root  for  corn-starch.    Farina  puddings  also. 

Fruit  Bread  Pudding.  % 

1  quart  milk. 
5  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

2  (heaping)  sugar. 

%  lb.  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 
^  "  currants,  well  washed  and  picked  over. 
Handful  of  shred  citron,  and  i  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in 
hot  water. 

2  scant  cups  fine  bread-crumbs,  from  a  stale  loaf. 

Beat  the  yolks  light  with  the  sugar,  add  the  bread-crumbs 
when  they  have  been  well  soaked  in  the  milk,  and  stir  until 
smooth.  Next  put  in  the  fruit  well  dredged  with  flour,  the 
soda,  and  finally  the  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth. 

This  will  require  longer  and  steadier  baking  than  if  the  fruit 
were  not  in.  Cover  it  if  it  threatens  to  harden  too  soon  on 
top.  Send  to  table  hot  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was  baked,  or 
turn  out  very  carefully  upon  a  hot  plate.  Eat  warm,  with 
pudding-sauce. 

Bread-and-Butter  Pudding. 
4  eggs. 
3  cups  milk. 
^  cup  sugar. 
Vanilla  or  other  extract. 
Nutmeg  to  taste. 
Bread  and  butter. 


PUDDINGS. 


288 


Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  (stale),  spread  thickly  with  butter, 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Fit  them  neatly  and  closely  into  a 
buttered  pudding-dish  until  it  is  half  full.  Lay  a  small,  heavy 
plate  upon  them  to  prevent  them  from  floating,  and  saturate 
them  gradually  with  a  hot  custard  made  of  the  milk  heated 
almost  to  boiling,  then  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  beaten  eggs 
and  sugar  stirred  in  with  the  seasoning.  Let  the  bread  soak 
in  this  fifteen  minutes  or  so,  adding  by  degrees  all  the  custard. 
Just  before  you  put  the  pudding  in  the  oven,  take  up  the  plate 
gently.  If  the  bread  still  rise  to  the  top,  keep  down  with  a 
silver  fork  or  spoon,  laid  upon  it  from  the  side  of  the  dish, 
until  the  custard  thickens,  when  slip  it  out.    Eat  cold. 

Bread-and-Marmalade  Pudding  | 
Is  made  precisely  as  above,  except  that  each  slice  is  spread 
with  marmalade  or  jam  besides  the  butter. 
Either  of  these  puddings  is  good  boiled. 

The  Queen  of  Puddings.  I 
i}4  cup  white  sugar. 
2  cups  fine  dry  bread-crumbs. 
5  eggs. 

I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Vanilla,  rose-water,  or  lemon  seasoning. 
I  quart  fresh  rich  milk,  and  one  half  cup  jelly  or  jam. 
Rub  the  butter  into  a  cup  of  sugar ;  beat  the  yolks  very 
light,  and  stir  these  together  to  a  cream.    The  bread-crumbs, 
soaked  in  milk,  come  next,  then  the  seasoning.    Bake  this  in 
a  buttered  pudding-dish — a  laige  one  and  but  two-thirds  full 
— until  the  custard  is  "  set."    Draw  to  the  mouth  of  the  oven, 
spread  over  with  jam  or  other  nice  fruit-conserve.  Cover 
this  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whipped  whites  and  half  a 
cup  of  sugar.    Shut  the  oven  and  bake  until  the  meringue 
begins  to  color. 

Eat  cold,  with  cream. 


234 


COMMON  SENSE. 


You  may,  in  strawberry  season,  substitute  the  fresh  fruit  for 
preserves.    It  is  then  truly  delightful. 

Dorchester  Cracker  Plum  Pudding. 
2  quarts  milk. 

6  Boston  crackers — split  and  buttered. 
8  eggs — beaten  very  light. 

2  cups  sugar.    Nutmeg,  cloves,  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

I  teaspoonful  salt. 

I  lb.  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  two. 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  eggs,  and  sugar,  seasoned  with 
the  spices,  by  heating  the  milk  almost  to  boiling,  then  taking 
it  from  the  fire  and  adding  gradually  the  yolks,  sugar,  season- 
ing, and  whites.  Do  not  boil  it  again.  Butter  a  pudding- 
dish  ;  put  a  layer  of  crackers  in  the  bottom,  moistening  with 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  hot  custard.  On  this  lay  some  of  the 
raisins — a  thick  stratum  ;  cover  with  crackers — the  buttered 
side  downward  ;  moisten  with  the  custard,  and  proceed  in  this 
order  until  your  crackers  and  fruit  are  used  up.  Pour  in 
custard  until  only  the  top  of  the  upper  layer  is  visible,  but  not 
enough  to  float  them  ;  cover  closely  and  set  in  the  cellar  over 
night.  In  the  morning  add  the  rest  of  the  custard,  at  intervals 
of  five  or  six  minutes  between  the  cupfuls. 

Bake  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cover  with  paper  if 
it  should  seem  likely  to  harden  too  fast. 

Eat  hot,  with  sauce. 

Cracker  Suet  Pudding.  % 
lb.  beef  suet,  freed  from  strings,  and  powdered. 

1  cup  fine  cracker-crumbs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
4  eggs. 

3  cups  milk. 
Pinch  of  soda. 

I  teaspoonful  salt. 


PUDDINGS. 


235 


Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar ;  add  to  these  the  milk  in 
which  the  cracker  has  been  soaked  for  half  an  hour ;  work 
into  a  smooth  paste  before  putting  in  the  suet  and  soda.  Whip 
the  whites  in  last,  and  bake  nearly,  if  not  quite  an  hour. 
Cover,  should  the  crust  form  too  rapidly.  Eat  hot,  with  wine 
sauce. 

You  may  also  steam  or  boil  this  pudding. 

Rice  and  Tapioca  Pudding. 
cup  rice. 
^  cup  tapioca. 

cup  sugar. 
3  pints  milk. 
Cinnamon  to  taste. 
Soak  the  tapioca  in  a  cup  of  the  milk  three  hours  ;  wash 
the  rice  in  several  waters,  and  soak  in  another  cup  of  milk  as 
long  as  you  do  the  tapioca.    Sweeten  the  remaining  quart  of 
milk ;  put  all  the  ingredients  together,  and  bake  two  hours  in 
a  slow  oven.    Eat  cold. 

Rice  Pudding  with  Eggs.  % 

I  quart  milk. 

4  eggs. 

^  cup  rice, 
cup  sugar. 

I  tablespoonful  butter. 

Handful  of  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  two. 
Soak  the  rice  in  a  pint  of  the  milk  an  hour,  then  set  the 
saucepan  containing  it  where  it  will  slowly  heat  to  a  boil. 
Boil  five  minutes ;  remove  and  let  it  cool.  Beat  the  yolks, 
add  the  sugar  and  butter,  the  rice  and  the  milk  in  which  it 
was  cooked,  with  the  pint  of  unboiled ;  the  beaten  whites, 
and  finally  the  raisins.  Grate  nutmeg  on  the  top,  and  bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  the  custard  is  well  set  and 
of  a  light  brown.    Eat  cold, 


236 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Batter  Pudding.  | 

1  pint  of  milk. 

4  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

2  even  cups  flour. 
I  teaspoonful  salt. 
I  pinch  of  soda. 

Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve 
in  the  pudding-dish  as  soon  as  it  drawn  from  the  oven,  and 
eat  with  rich  sauce. 

German  Puffs.  | 

3  cups  flour. 
3  milk. 

3  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very  light. 
3  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter. 
I  saltspoonful  salt. 

Pour  in  nine  well-buttered  cups  of  same  size  as  that  used 
for  measuring,  and  bake  to  a  fine  brown.  Eat  as  soon  as  done, 
with  sauce. 

Lemon  Pudding.  | 

1  cup  of  sugar. 
4  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch. 

2  lemons — ^juice  of  both  and  rind  of  one. 

I  pint  milk. 

I  tablespoonful  butter. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  the  corn-starch,  wet 
with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Boil  five  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  While  hot  mix  in  the  butter  and  set  it  away  to 
cool.  Beat  the  yolks  light,  and  add  the  sugar,  mixing  very 
thoroughly  before  putting  in  the  lemon-juice  and  grated  rind. 
Beat  this  to  a  stifl"  cream  and  add  gradually  to  the  corn-starch 
milk,  when  the  latter  is  cold.  Stir  all  smooth,  put  in  a 
buttered  dish,  and  bake.    Eat  cold. 


PUDDINGS. 


237 


Lemon  M:^ringue  Pudding  {very  nice). 

1  quart  milk. 

2  cups  bread-crumbs. 
4  eggs. 

cup  butter. 
I  cup  white  sugar. 

I  large  lemon — ^juice  and  half  the  rind,  grated. 

Soak  the  bread  in  the  milk ;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  with  the 
butter  and  sugar  rubbed  to  a  cream,  also  the  lemon.  Bake  in 
a  buttered  dish  until  firm  and  slightly  brown.  Draw  to  the 
door  of  the  oven  and  cover  with  a  meringue  of  the  whites 
whipped  to  a  froth  with  three  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar, 
and  a  little  lemon-juice.  Brown  very  slightly  ;  sift  powdered 
sugar  over  it,  and  eat  cold. 

You  may  make  an  orange  pudding  in  the  same  way. 

CocoANUT  Pudding. 
^  lb.  grated  cocoanut. 
y-z  cup  stale  sponge  cake,  crumbled  fine. 
I  cup  sugar. 

1  largn  cup  rich  milk — cream,  if  you  can  get  it. 
6  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla,  or  rose-water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  add  the  beateii  yolks. 
When  these  are  well  mixed,  put  in  the  cocoanut ;  stir  well 
before  adding  the  milk,  cake-crumbs,  flavoring ;  and  lastly, 
the  whites  of  three  eggs.  Whip  the  other  whites  stiff  with 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar ;  flavor  with  vanilla  and 
just  before  taking  the  pudding  from  the  oven,  spread  this 
meringue  over  the  top,  and  close  the  oven  until  the  icing  is 
slightly  browned. 

Bake  in  all  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Orange  Marmalade  Pudding. 
I  cup  fine  bread-crumbs. 


238 


COMMON  SENSE. 


y^,  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  milk  or  cream. 
4  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  butter. 

I  cup  orange  or  other  sweet  marmalade. 
Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together ;  add  the  yolks  well 
beaten,  the  milk,  bread-crumbs,  and  the  whites  whipped  to  a 
froth.  Put  a  layer  of  this  in  the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered 
mould,  spread  thickly  with  some  pretty  stiff  marmalade- 
orange  is  nicest— then  another  layer  of  the  mixture,  and  so  on 
until  the  mould  is  full,  having  the  custard  mixture  at  the  top. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  an  hour,  turn  out  of  the  mould 
upon  a  dish  and  serve,  with  sweetened  cream  or  custard. 

Macaroni  Pudding.  % 

I  cup  macaroni  broken  into  inch  lengths. 

1  quart  milk. 
4  eggs. 

Yt,  lemon — ^juice  and  grated  peel. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
^  cup  sugar. 

Simmer  the  macaroni  in  half  the  milk  until  tender.  While 
hot  stir  in  the  butter,  the  yolks,  well  beaten  up  with  the  sugar, 
the  lemon,  and  lastly  the  whipped  whites.  Bake  in  a  buttered 
mould  about  half  an  hour,  or  until  nicely  browned. 

Vermicelli  Pudding. 
May  be  made  according  to  the  foregoing  receipt. 

Neapolitan  Pudding. — {Very  fine.)  % 

I  -  large  cup  fine  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  milk. 

cup  sugar. 
I  lemon— juice  and  grated  rind. 
6  eggs. 

y^  lb.  stale  sponge-cake. 


PUDDINGS.  239 
lb.  macaroons — almond. 

cup  jelly  or  jam,  and  one  small  tumbler  of  sherry  wine. 
y2  cup  milk  poured  upon  the  bread-crumbs. 
I  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  put  the  beaten  yolks 
in  next :  then  the  soaked  bread-crumbs,  the  lemon,  juice,  and 
rind,  and  beat  to  a  smooth,  light  paste  before  adding  the 
whites.    Butter  your  mould  very  well,  and  put  in  the  bottom 
a  light  layer  of  dry  bread-crumbs ;   upon  this  one  of  the 
macaroons,  laid  evenly  and  closely  together.    Wet  these  with 
wine,  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  the  mixture ;  then  with  slices 
of  sponge-cake,  spread  thickly  with  jelly  or  jam;  next  macaroons, 
wet  with  wine,  more  custard,  sponge-cake,  and  jam,  and  so  on 
until  the  mould  is  full,  putting  a  layer  of  the  mixture  at  the  top. 
Cover  closely,  and  steam  in  the  oven  three-quarters  of  an 
hour ;  then  remove  the  cover  to  brown  the  top.    Turn  out 
carefully  into  a  dish,  and  pour  over  it  a  sauce  made  of  currant 
jelly  warmed,  and  beaten  up  with  two  tablespoonfuls  melted 
butter  and  a  glass  of  pale  sherry. 

A  plain  round  mould  is  best  for  the  pudding,  as  much  of 
its  comeliness  depends  upon  the  manner  in  which  the  cake 
and  macaroons  are  fitted  in. 

It  is  a  pretty  and  good  pudding,  and  will  well  repay  the 
trifling  trouble  and  care  required  to  manage  it  properly. 
It  is  also  nice  boiled  in  a  butted  mould. 

Rhubarb  Pudding. 

Prepare  the  stalks  as  for  pies;  cover  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  pudding-dish  with  slices  of  bread  and  butter ;  cover 
with  rhubarb  cut  into  short  pieces ;  sprinkle  abundat^Hv  with 
sugar ;  then  put  on  another  laver  of  bread  and  butter,  and 
so  on  until  your  dish  is  full.  Cover  and  steam,  while  biking 
for  half  an  hour.  Remove  the  lid  and  bake  ten  minutes,  or 
until  browned. 

Eat  hot  with  sauce. 


240 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Newark  Pudding. 

I  cup  fine  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  a  pint  of  the  milk. 

1  quart  of  milk. 
5  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  rice-flour. 

y2  lb.  raisins  seeded,  cut  in  two,  and  dredged  with  flour. 
Vanilla  or  bitter  almond  extract. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  and  a  half-teaspoonful 
soda. 

Beat  the  yolks  light;  add  the  soaked  bread-crumbs  and 
milk ;  stir  to  a  smooth  batter,  put  in  the  rice-flour,  wet  up 
first  with  cold  milk  ;  the  reserved  pint  of  milk,  the  seasoning, 
butter,  the  fruit,  lastly  the  whites  whipped  stiff.  Bake  an  hour 
in  a  buttered  mould  ;  turn  out  and  pour  sauce  over  it,  serving 
hard  sauce  also  with  it. 

Belle's  Dumplings. 

1  quart  prepared  flour. 

2}^  tablespoonfuls  lard  and  butter  mixed. 

2  cups  of  milk,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Roll  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  oblong  pieces, 
rounded  at  the  corners ;  put  a  great  spoonful  damson,  cherry, 
or  other  tart  preserve  in  the  middle  and  roll  into  a  dumpling. 
Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg 
while  hot,  set  back  in  the  oven  three  m"nutes  to  glaze. 

Eat  hot  with  brandy  or  wine  sauce. 

Berry  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

2  eggs. 

I  saltspoonfi]  salt. 

teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
■  "        cream-tartar,  sifted  through  a  cup  of  flour, 

and  added  to  enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter. 


PUDDINGS. 


241 


I  pint  blackberriesj  raspberries,  currants,  or  huckleberries, 
well  dredged  with  flour — stirred  in  at  the  last. 
Boil  one  hour  in  buttered  mould. 

Huckleberry  Pudding.  | 

1  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

I  quart  flour— or  enough  for  thick  batter. 
I  gill  baker's  yeast. 
I  saltspoonful  salt. 

I  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
Nearly  a  quart  of  berries — well  dredged  with  flour. 
Make  a  batter  of  eggs,  milk,  flour,  yeast,  salt,  and  soda,  and 
set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  about  four  hours.   When  you  are 
ready  to  boil  it,  stir  in  the  dredged  fruit  quickly  and  lightly. 
Boil  in  a  buttered  mould  or  a  floured  cloth  for  two  hours. 

This  will  be  found  lighter  and  more  wholesome  than  boiled 
pastry. 

Eat  hot  with  sweet  sauce. 

Apple  Dumplings.  J 

I  quart  flour. 

%  lb.  suet. 

I  teaspoonful  salt. 

teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

I  "        cream-tartar  sifted  in  the  flour. 

Cold  water  enough  to  make  into  a  tolerably  stiff  paste. 

Roll  out,  cut  into  squares,  put  in  the  middle  of  each  a  fine, 
juicy  apple,  pared  and  cored.  Fill  the  hole  left  by  the  core 
with  marmalade,  or  with  sugar,  wet  with  lemon-juice.  Stick  a 
clove  in  the  sugar.  Close  the  paste,  tie  up  in  the  cloths,  when 
you  have  wet  them  with  hot  water  and  floured  them,  and  boil 
one  hour. 

A  pleasing  idea  for  dumpling  cloths  is  to  crochet  them  in  a 
close  stitch  with  stout  tidy  cotton.  They  are  easily  done,  wash 


242 


COMMON  SENSE. 


and  wear  well,  and  leave  a  very  pretty  pattern  upon  the  paste 
when  they  are  opened.  Crochet  them  round,  with  a  cord  for 
drawing  run  into  the  outer  edge. 

Boiled  Fruit  Pudding. 

Prepare  a  paste  in  accordance  with  either  of  the  foregoing 
receipts,  but  roll  into  one  sheet.  Lay  apples,  peaches,  or  ber- 
ries in  the  centre,  paring  and  slicing  the  fruit ;  sprinkle  with 
sugar,  and  close  the  paste  over  them  as  you  would  a  dumpling. 
Dip  a  stout  cloth  in  hot  water,  flour  the  inside,  put  in  the 
pudding,  tie  tightly,  and  boil  two  hours  and  a  half. 

Eat  hot  with  sauce. 

Rice  Dumplings. 

1  lb.  rice  boiled  without  stirring,  until  soft,  and  at  the  top 

dry. 

12  pippins,  pared  and  cored. 

Strawberry  marmalade  or  .crab-apple  jelly. 

Let  the  rice  cool  upon  a  sieve  or  coarse  cloth,  that  k.  may 
dry  at  the  same  time.  Dip  your  dumpling  clothf  'n  hot  water; 
wring  them  out  and  flour  well  inside.  Put  a  huudful  of  the 
cold  rice  upon  each,  spreading  in  out  into  a  smooth  sheet. 
Lay  in  the  centre  an  apple ;  fill  the  hole  left  by  the  core  with 
marmalade  or  jelly ;  draw  up  the  cloth  carefully  to  enclose 
the  apple  with  a  coating  of  rice ;  tie,  and  boil  one  hour. 

Turn  out  with  care ;  pour  sweet  sauce  or  rich  sweetened 
cream  over  them,  and  send  around  more  in  a  boat  with  them. 

Suet  Dumplings  (plain). 

2  cups  fine  bread-crumbs,  soaKcd  in  a  very  littl'^'  milk. 
I  cup  beef  suet,  freed  from  strings,  and  pc  wdered. 

4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separated,  and  beaten  very  light. 
I  tablespoonful  sugar. 

I  teasnoonful  cream-tartar,  sifted  into  the  flour 

soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
I  salt. 


PUDDINGS.  243 

Enough  milk  to  mix  into  a  stiff  paste. 

Make  into  large  balls  with  floured  hands  ;  put  into  dumpling 
cloths  dipped  into  hot  water  and  floured  inside ;  leave  room 
to  swell,  and  tie  the  strings  very  tightly. 

Boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour.    Serve  hot  with  wine  juice. 

Boiled  Indian  Meal  Pudding. 
I  quart  milk. 
I     "    Indian  meal. 
3  eggs. 

3  heaping  tablespoon fuls  sugar,  and  i  teaspoonful  salt. 
}i  lb.  beef  suet,  chopped  into  powder. 
Scald  the  milk,  and  while  boiUng  hot  stir  in  the  meal  and 
suet  with  the  salt.  When  cold  add  the  yolks,  beaten  light  with 
the  sugar,  then  the  whites.  Dip  your  bag  in  hot  water,  flour 
it,  and  fill  half  full  with  the  mixture,  as  it  will  swell  very  much. 
Boil  five  hours. 

Eat  very  hot  with  butter  and  sugar. 

Cabinet  Pudding. 

Yz  lb.  flour. 

Y  lb.  butter. 
5  eggs. 

1%  lb.  sugar. 

Yz  lb.  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  three  pieces  each. 

Y  lb.  currants,  washed  and  dried. 

Y  cup  cream  or  milk. 

Y  lemon — ^juice  and  rind  grated. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  beaten  yolks;  then 
the  milk  and  the  flour,  alternately  with  the  whites.  Lastly,  stir 
in  the  fruit,  well  dredged  with  flour,  turn  into  a  buttered 
mould,  and  boil  two  hours  and  a  half  at  least. 

Serve  hot,  with  cabinet  pudding  sauce  over  it.  (See  Sweet 
Sauces.) 


244 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Eve's  Pudding. 
I  heaping  cup  of  fine  dry  bread-crumbs. 
^  lb.  pared  and  chopped  apples. 
^  lb.  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 
6  oz.  currants,  washed  and  dried. 
6  eggs. 

I  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  same  of  allspice. 
I  glass  brandy. 

I  cup  sugar,  and  i  teaspoonful  salt. 

^  lb.  suet,  chopped  to  powder. 
Work  the  sugar  into  the  beaten  yolks ;  then  the  suet  and 
crumbs,  with  the  chopped  apples ;  next  the  brandy  and  spice, 
then  the  whipped  whites ;  lastly  the  fruit,  well  dredged  with 
flour. 

Boil  in  a  buttered  bowl  or  mould,  three  hours.  Eat  hot 
with  sauce.  .  , 

The  Queen  of  Plum  Puddings. 
I  lb.  butter. 

I  lb.  of  suet,  freed  from  strings  and  chopped  fine. 

1  lb.  of  sugar. 
2^  lbs.  of  flour. 

2  lbs.  of  raisins,  seeded,  chopped,  and  dredged  with  flour. 
2  lbs.  of  currants,  picked  over  carefully  after  they  are 

washed. 
^  lb,  of  citron,  shred  fine. 
12  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
I  pint  of  milk. 

1  cup  of  brandy. 
^  oz.  of  cloves. 

oz.  of  mace. 

2  grated  nutmegs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  beat  in  the  yolks  when  you 
have  whipped  them  smooth  and  light ;  next  put  in  the  milk ; 
then  the  flour,  alternately  with  the  beaten  whites  \  then  the 


PUDDINGS.  245 

brandy  and  spice;  lastly  the  fruit,  well  dredged  with  flour. 
Mix  all  thoroughly;  wring  out  your  pudding-cloth  in  hot 
water;  flour  well  inside,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  boil  five 
hours. 

I  can  confidently  recommend  this  as  the  best  plum  pudding 
1  have  ever  tasted,  even  when  the  friend  at  whose  table  I  had 
first  the  pleasure  of  eating  it  imitated  the  example  of  "good 
Kmg  Arthur's"  economical  spouse,  and  what  we  "couldn't 
eat  that  night,"  "next  day  fried,"  by  heating  a  little  butter  in 
a  frying-pan,  and  laying  in  slices  of  her  pudding,  warmed 
them  into  almost  their  original  excellence.  It  will  keep  a 
long  time— in  a  locked  closet  or  safe. 

Orange  Roley-Poley.  i 
Make  alight  paste  as  for  apple  dumplings  or  valise  pudding, 
roll  m  an  oblong  sheet,  and  lay  oranges  (sweet  ones),  peeled, 
shced,  and  seeded,  thickly  all  over  it.  Sprinkle  with  white 
sugar;  scatter  a  teaspoonful  or  two  of  the  grated  yellow  peel 
over  all  and  roll  up  closely,  folding  down  the  end  to  secure 
the  syrup.  Boil  in  a  pudding-cloth  one  hour  and  a  half. 
Eat  with  lemon  sauce. 

Cherry  or  Currant  Pyramid. 
Wash  and  stone  the  cherries,  or  pick  the  currants  from 
heir  stems.    Make  some  good  hght  crust,  roll  it  out  a  quar- 
ter of  an  mch  thick,  and  cut  for  the  bottom  a  round  piece 
about  the  size  of  a  tea-plate.    You  can  use  the  top  of  a  t  n 
pa.l  for  a  cutter.    Spread  your  fruit  upon  this,  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  leavmg  a  half  inch  margin  all  around.    Roll  out  a 
second  sheet  an  inch  less  in  diameter  than  the  first,  lay  it 
care  ully  upon  the  fruit,  and  turn  up  the  margin  of  th  loler 
P^ece  over  the  edge  of  this.    Spread  this  in  turn  with  fruit 
and  sugar,  and  cover  with  a  third  and  lessening  round  -  pro- 
ceedmg  m  this  order  until  the  sixth  and  topmost  cover  s  not 
more  than  three  inches  across.    Have  ready  a  conical  cap  o 


246 


COMMON  SENSE. 


stout  muslin  adapted  to  the  proportions  and  dimensions  of 
your  pile ;  dip  it  in  boiling  water,  flour  inside,  and  draw  gently 
over  all.    It  should  be  large  enough  to  meet  and  tie  under 
the  base  without  cramping  the  pyramid. 
Boil  two  hours,  and  eat  with  sweet  sauce. 


FRITTERS,  PANCAKES,  Etc. 

Fritters.  I 
I  pint  flour. 
4  eggs. 

I  teaspoonful  salt. 
I  pint  boiling  water. 
Stir  the  flour  into  the  water  by  degrees,  and  stir  until  it  has 
boiled  three  minutes.    Let  it  get  almost  cold,  when  beat  in 
the  yolks,  then  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  must  be  previ- 
ously whipped  sfif. 

Apple  Fritters.  | 

A  batter  according  to  the  preceding  receipt. 

6  large  juicy  apples,  pared  and  quartered. 

I  glass  brandy. 

I  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

I  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
Put  the  brandy,  a  very  little  water,  the  sugar,  and  the  spice 
into  a  covered  saucepan  with  the  apples.    Stir  gently  until  half 
done  ;  drain  off  the  liquor,  every  drop ;  mince  the  apple  when 
cold,  and  stir  into  the  batter. 

Jelly  Fritters. 
I  scant  cup  sponge-cake  crumbs — very  fine  and  dry. 

1  cup  boiUng  milk. 
4  eggs. 

2  ublespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 


4: 


FKITTERS,  PANCAKES,  ETC. 


247 


1  teaspoonful  corn  starch,  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  currant  or  cranberry  jelly 

Soak  the  cake-crumbs  in  the  boiling  milk,  and  stir  in  the 
corn-starch.  Heat  all  together  to  a  boil,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Beat  the  yolks  light,  and  add  to  this  as  it  cools,  with  the  sugar. 
Whip  in  the  jelly,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  put  in  the  whites- 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth — at  the  last. 

Fry  immediately. 

Queen's  Toast. 

Fry  slices  of  stale  baker's  bread— aerated,  if  you  can  get  it  

in  boiling  lard  to  a  fine  brown.  Dip  each  slice  quickly  in 
boiling  water  to  remove  the  grease.  Sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar,  and  pile  upon  a  hot  plate.  Before  toasting,  cut  out  the 
slices  with  a  round  cake-cutter,  taking  off  all  the  crust.  They 
look  better  when  piled  up.  Pour  sweet  wine  sauce  over  them 
when  hot,  and  serve  at  once. 

Jelly-Cake  Fritters  {ve^y  nice).  % 

Some  stale  sponge,  or  plain  cup  cake,  cut  into  rounds  with 
a  cake  cutter. 
Hot  lard. 

Strawberry  or  other  jam,  or  jelly. 
A  little  boiling  milk. 

Cut  the  cake  carefully  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Dip  each  slice 
for  a  second  in  a  bowl  of  boiling  milk,  draining  this  off  on  the 
side  of  the  vessel ;  lay  on  a  hot  dish  and  spre^-jd  thickly  with 
strawberry  jam,  peach  jelly,  or  other  delicate  conserve.  Pile 
them  neatly  and  send  around  hot,  with  cream  to  pour  over 
them. 

This  is  a  nice  way  of  using  up  stale  cake,  and  if  rightly  pre- 
pared, the  dessert  is  almost  equal  to  Neapolitan  pudding. 

Pancakes. 

I  pint  of  flour. 
6  eggs. 


24B 


OOMMOl^  SENSE. 


I  saltspoonful  salt,  and  same  of  soda  dissolved  in  Vinega-i:. 

Milk  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Begin  with  two  cups  and  add 
until  the  latter  is  of  the  right  consistency.  Beat  lihe  ;yolks 
light,  add  the  salt,  soda,  and  two  cups  of  milk,  then  the  flour 
and  beaten  whites  alternately,  and  thin  with  more  milk. 


SWEET,  OR  PUDDING  SAUCES. 
Hard  Sauce.  % 
Stir  to  a  cream  i  cup  of  butter. 

3  cups  of  powdered  sugar. 
When  light,  beat  in  ^  teacup  of  wine. 

Juice  of  a  lemon. 
2  teaspoonfuls  nutmeg. 
Beat  long  and  hard  until  several  shades  lighter  in  color  than 
at  first  and  creamy  in  consistency.  Smooth  into  shape  with  a 
broad  knife  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  stamp  with  a  wooden, 
mould,  first  scalded  and  then  dipped  in  cold  water.  Set  uponi 
the  ice  until  the  pudding  is  served. 

Bee-hive  Sauce.  % 
Mix  a  hard  sauce  according  to  the  previous  receipt,  and 
when  light,  set  aside  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  in  a  plate. 
To  the  larger  quantity  left  add  gradually,  cherry,  currant,  or 
cranberry  juice  enough  to  color  it  a  good  pink.    Red  jelly 
.vill  do  if  berriel  are  out  of  season.    Beat  the  coloring  matter 
in  thoroughly,  and  shape  into  a  conical  mound.    Roll  half  a 
sheet  of  note-paper  into  a  long,  narrow  funnel,  tie  a  string 
about  it  to  keep  it  in  shape,  and  fill  with  the  uncolored  sauce. 
Squeeze  it  out  gently  through  the  small  end  in  a  ridge,  be- 
ginning at  the  base  of  the  cone  and  winding  about  it  to  the 
top,  fining  your  funnel  as  it  is  emptied,  and  guiding  it  care- 
fully.   The  effect  of  the  alternate  white  and  pink  lines  is  very 
pretty. 


SWEET,  OR  PUDDING  SAUCES. 


249 


If  the  pudding  is  one  to  which  chocolate  would  be  a  plea- 
sant addition,  color  with  grated  chocolate,  rubbed  smooth  in 
a  little  of  the  wine,  and  ridge  with  white.  Set  upon  the  ice  or 
upon  the  cellar-floor  until  firm.  Stick  a  colored  almond  or 
other  ornamental  candy  upon  the  top. 

This  bee-hive  is  easily  made,  and  will  set  off  even  a  plain 
pudding  handsomely. 

Brandy  Sauce  {hard)  \ 
yz  cup  butter. 
2  cups  powdered  sugar. 
I  wineglass  brandy. 

I  teaspoonful  mixed  cinnamon  and  mace. 
Warm  the  butter  very  slightly,  work  in  the  sugar,  and,  when 
this  is  light,  the  brandy  and  spice.    Beat  hard — shape  into  a 
mould  and  set  in  a  cold  place  until  wanted. 

White  Wine  Sauce  {liquid).  % 

Yo.  cup  butter. 

2^  cups  powdered  sugar. 

2  wineglasses  pale  sherry  or  white  wine. 

Yo.  cup  boiling  water. 

I  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
Work  the  butter  into  the  sugar,  moistening,  as  you  go  on, 
with  boiling  water.  Beat  long  and  hard  until  your  bowl  is 
nearly  full  of  a  creamy  mixture.  Then  add  gradually  the  wine 
and  nutmeg,  still  beating  hard.  Turn  into  a  tin  pail,  set 
within  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  frequently  until 
the  same  is  hot,  but  not  until  it  boils.  Take  the  saucepan 
from  the  fire  and  leave  the  pail  standing  in  the  water,  stirring 
the  contents  now  and  then,  until  you  are  ready  to  serve  the 
pudding. 

If  rightly  made,  this  sauce  will  be  nearly  as  white  as  milk. 

Lemon  Sauce.  J 
I  large  cup  of  sugar. 


250 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Nearly  half  a  cup  of  butter. 
I  egg. 

I  lemon— all  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

I  tablespoonful  nutmeg. 

3  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  beat  in  the  egg  whipped 
light ;  the  lemon  and  nutmeg.  Beat  hard  ten  minutes,  and 
add,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  the  boiling  water.  Put  in  a  tin  pail 
and  set  within  the  uncovered  top  of  the  tea-kettle,  which  you 
must  keep  boiling  until  the  steam  heats  the  sauce  very  hot, 
but  not  to  boiling.    Stir  constantly. 

Milk  Pudding  Sauce/ 
2  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 
I  large  cup  of  sugar. 
5  tablespoonfuls  boiling  milk. 

y2  teaspoonful  arrow-root  or  corn-starch,  wet  with  cold  milk. 
I  teaspoonful  nutmeg  or  mace. 
I  tablespoonful  butter. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  sugar,  add  the  beaten  eggs,  and 
work  all  to  a  creamy  froth.  Wet  the  corn-starch  and  put  in 
next  with  the  spice— finally  pour  in  by  the  spoonful  the 
boiling  milk,  beating  well  all  the  time.  Set  within  a  saucepan 
of  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while,  but  do 
not  let  the  sauce  boil. 

This  is  a  good  sauce  for  bread  and  other  simple  puddings. 
Fruit  Pudding  Sauce.  % 

cup  butter. 
2^  cups  sugar. 

I  dessert  spoonful  corn-starch  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk. 

I  lemon— juice  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

I  glass  of  wine. 

I  cup  boiling  water. 


SWEET,  OR  PljDDlNtJ  SAtJCES. 


^51 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  well ;  pour  the  corn-starch  into 
the  boiling  water  and  stir  over  a  clear  fire  until  it  is  well 
thickened ;  put  all  together  in  a  bowl  and  beat  five  minutes 
before  returning  to  the  saucepan.  Heat  once,  almost  to  the 
boiling  point,  add  the  wine,  and  serve. 

Custard  Sauce. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

2  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 
Yo,  wineglass  of  brandy. 

I  cup  powdered  sugar,  stirred  into  the  eggs. 
Nutmeg  to  taste. 
I  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  add  by  degrees  to  the  beaten 
eggs  and  sugar;  put  in  the  nutmeg,  and  set  within  a  saucepan 
of  boiling  water.    Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken.    Take  it  off 
and  add  the  brandy  gradually.    Set,  until  it  is  wanted,  within 
a  pan  of  boiling  water. 

Pour  over  the  pudding  when  it  comes  from  the  mould. 

Jelly  Sauce.  % 

cup  currant  jelly. 
I  tablespoonful  butter,  melted. 

^  dessert  spoonful  arrow-root  or  corn-starch  ;  wet  with  cold 

water. 
I  glass  pale  sherry. 
3  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water. 

Stir  the  arrow-root  into  the  boiling  water  and  heat,  stirring 
all  the  time,  until  it  thickens;  add  the  butter,  and  set  aside 
until  almost  cool,  when  beat  in,  spoonful  by  spoonful,  the  jelly 
to  a  smooth  pink  paste.  Pour  in  the  wine,  stir  hard,  and 
heat  in  a  tin  vessel,  set  within  another  of  boiling  water,  until 
very  hot. 

Pour  over  and  around  Neapolitan,  bread-and-marmalade 
puddings,  cake-fritters,  and  Queen's  toast. 


252 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Sweetened  Cream  {cold). 
I  pint  of  cream. 

4  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 

I  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg. 

I  "  vanilla. 

Mix  all  well  together,  stirring  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Eat  with  jam  puddings,  queen  of  all  puddings,  Alice's  pud- 
ding, and  peach  roley-poley. 

Cream  Sauce  {hot). 

I  pint  cream. 

4  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 

Extract  of  vanilla  or  bitter  almonds,  one  teaspoonful. 

I  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Heat  the  cream  slowly  in  a  vessel  set  in  a  saucepan  of  boil- 
ing water,  stirring  often.  When  scalding,  but  not  boiling  hot, 
remove  it  from  the  fire,  put  in  the  sugar  and  nutmeg ;  stir  three 
or  four  minutes  and  add  the  whites.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
flavor,  setting  the  bowl  containing  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
until  the  pudding  is  served,  stirring  now  and  then. 


CUSTARDS,  BLANC-MANGE,  JELLIES,  AND 
CREAMS. 

Boiled  Custard. 

I  quart  of  milk. 

Yolks  of  five  eggs  and  the  whites  of  seven — (two  for  the 

meringue). 
6  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
Vanilla  flavoring — i  teaspoonful  to  a  pint. 
Heat  the  milk  to  almost  to  boiling  ;  beat  the  yolks  light  and 
stir  in  the  sugar.    Add  the  milk  in  the  manner  described  in 


CUSTARDS. 


253 


the  following  general  directions  : — "In  heating  the  milk  for 
custard,  do  not  let  it  quite  boil  before  adding  the  yolks. 
My  plan,  which  has  proved  a  safe  one  thus  far,  is  to  take 
the  scalding  milk  from  the  fire,  and  instead  of  pouring  the 
beaten  eggs  into  it,  to  put  a  spoonful  or  two  of  the  milk  to 
them,  beating  well  all  the  while,  adding  more  and  more  milk 
as  I  mix,  until  there  is  no  longer  danger  of  sudden  curdling. 
Then,  return  all  to  the  fire  and  boil  gently  until  the 
mixture  is  of  the  right  consistency.  From  ten  to  fifteen  min- 
utes should  thicken  a  quart.  Stir  constantly."  Then  stir  in  five 
whites  whipped  stiff;  return  to  the  fire  and  stir  until  thick,  but 
not  until  it  breaks.  Season  it  with  vanilla,  pour  into  glass 
cups;  whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  meringue  with  a  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  when  the  custard  is 
cold,  pile  a  little  of  this  upon  the  top  of  each  cup.  You  may 
lay  a  preserved  strawberry  or  cherry,  or  a  bit  of  melon  sweet 
meat,  or  a  little  bright  jelly  upon  each. 

Almond  Custards. 

1  pint  milk  (half  cream). 

lb.  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste,  a  few  at 
a  time  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  adding  gradually — 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  rose-water. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs  and  whites  of  four — (two  for  meringue). 
4  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

I  teaspoonful  extract  bitter  almond  in  meringue. 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  the  sugar,  the  almond 
paste,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs.  Boil,  stirring  constantly 
until  it  thickens.  Stir  up  well  when  almost  cold  and  pour 
into  cups.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  flavoied  with  bitter 
almond,  and  heap  upon  each  cup. 

Quaking  Custard.  \ 

3  cups  milk. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs — reserving  the  whites  for  meringue. 


254  COMMON  SENSE. 

y2  package  Cooper's  or  Coxe's  gelatine. 
6  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring.    Juice  of  a  lemon  in  meringue. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  the  cold  milk  two  hours. 
Then  heat  the  rest  of  the  milk  to  boiling,  add  that  in  which 
the  gelatine  is,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  latter  is  quite 
dissolved.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  let  it  stnnd  five  minutes 
before  putting  in  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar.  Heat  slowly 
until  it  begins  to  thicken  perceptibly,  not  boi]— say  seven  or 
eight  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  When  nearly  cold,  having 
stirred  it  every  few  minutes  during  the  time,  flavor  it,  wash  out 
out  your  mould  in  cold  water,  and  without  wiping  it,  pour  in 
the  custard  and  set  on  the  ice  or  in  a  cold  place  to  harden. 
When  quite  firm,  turn  into  a  cold  dish,  loosening  it  by  wrapping 
about  the  mould  a  cloth  wrung  out  in  hot  water,  or  dipping 
the  mould  for  an  instant  in  warm,  not  boiling  water.  Have 
ready  the  whites  whipped  to  a  froth  with  three  tablespoonfuls 
powdered  sugar  and  juice  of  a  lemon.  Heap  neatly  about 
the  base  of  the  custard,  like  snow-drifts.  If  you  Hke,  you 
may  dot  this  with  minute  bits  of  currant  jelly. 

This  is  a  pleasing  dish  to  the  eye  and  taste. 

Floating  Island.  J 

1  quart  of  milk. 

4  eggs — whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
4  tablespoonfuls  (heaping)  white  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  extract  bitter  almond  or  vanilla. 
Yt,  cup  currant  jelly. 

Beat  the  yolks  well,  stir  in  the  sugar,  and  add  the  hot,  not 
boiling  milk,  a  Httle  at  a  time.  Boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
When  cool,  flavor  and  pour  into  a  glass  dish,  first  stirring  it  up 
well.  Heap  up  on  it  a  me'ringue  of  the  whites  into  which  you 
have  beaten,  gradually,  half  a  cup  of  currant,  cranberry,  or 
other  bright  tart  jelly  \  dot  with  bits  of  jelly  cut  into  rings  or 
star^',  or  straight  slips  laid  on  in  a  pattern. 


CUSTARDS. 


255 


Spanish  Cream.  | 

^  box  of  gelatine. 

I  quart  of  milk. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs. 

I  small  cup  of  sugar. 
Soak  the  gelatine  an  hour  in  the  milk ;  put  on  the  fire  and 
stir  well  as  it  warms.  Beat  the  yolks  very  light  with  the  sugar, 
add  to  the  scalding  milk,  and  beat  to  boiling  point,  stirring  all 
the  while.  Strain  through  thin  muslin  or  tarlatan,  and  when 
almost  cold,  put  into  a  mould  wet  with  cold  water.  Flavor 
with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

Bavarian  Cream.    {Very  fine). 
I  quart  sweet  cream. 
Yolks  only  of  four  eggs. 
]/2  oz.  of  gelatine  or  isinglass. 

1  cup  (small)  of  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  bitter  almond  extract. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  just  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it,  for  an 
hour.  Drain,  and  stir  into  a  pint  of  the  cream  made  boiling 
hot.  Beat  the  yolks  smooth  with  the  sugar,  and  add  the  boil- 
ing mixture  beaten  an  a  little  at  a  time.  Heat  until  it  begins 
to  thicken,  but  do  not  actually  boil ;  remove  it  from  the  fire, 
flavor,  and  while  it  is  still  hot  stir  in  the  other  pint  of  cream, 
whipped  or  churned  in  a  syllabub  churn  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat 
in  this  "  whip,"  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  into  the  custard  until  it 
is  the  consistency  of  sponge-cake  batter.  Dip  a  mould  in  cold 
water,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  set  on  the  ice  to  form. 

Snow  Custard.  % 
package  Coxe's  gelatine. 
3  eggs. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 


256 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Soak  the  gelatine  one  hour  in  a  teacupful  of  cold  water. 
To  this,  at  the  end  of  this  time,  add  one  pint  boiling  water. 
Stir  until  the  gelatine  is  thoroughly  dissolved ;  add  two-thirds 
of  the  sugar  and  the  lemon-juice.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  when  the  gelatine  is  quite  cold,  whip 
it  into  the  whites,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  for  at  least  an  hour 
Whip  steadily  and  evenly,  and  when  all  is  stiff,  pour  into  a 
mould,  previously  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set  in  a  cold  place 
In  four  or  five  hours  turn  into  a  glass  dish. 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  eggs,  and  remainder  of  the 
sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  bitter  almond,  and  when  the 
meringue  is  turned  out  of  the  mould,  pour  this  around  the  base 

Baked  Custard. 
I  quart  of  milk. 

4  eggs,  beaten  light — whites  and  yolks  separately. 

5  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  mixed  with  the  yolks. 
Nutmeg  and  vanilla. 

Scald  but  not  boil  the  milk ;  add  by  degrees  to  the  beaten 
yolks,  and  when  well  mixed,  stir  in  the  whites.  Flavor,  and 
pour  into  a  deep  dish,  or  custard-cups  of  white  stone-china. 
Set  these  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  grate  nutmeg  upon  each,  and 
bake  until  firm.    Eat  cold  from  the  cups. 

French  Tapioca  Custard. 
5  dessert  spoonfuls  tapioca. 
I  quart  of  milk. 
I  pint  of  cold  water. 
3  eggs. 

I  teaspoonful  vanilla,  or  other  essence. 

I  heaping  cup  of  sugar. 

A  pinch  of  salt. 
Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  water  five  hours.    Let  the  milk 
come  to  a  boil ;  add  the  tapioca,  the  water  in  which  it  was 
boiled,  and  a  good  pinch  of  salt.    Stir  until  boiling  hot,  and 
add  gradually  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar.    Boil  again 


BLANC-MANGE. 


257 


(always  in  a  vessel  set  within  another  of  hot  water),  stirring 
constantly.  Let  it  cook  until  thick,  but  not  too  long,  as  the 
custard  will  break.  Five  minutes  after  it  reaches  the  boil  will 
suffice.  Pour  into  a  bowl,  and  stir  gently  into  the  mixture 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Flavor,  and  set 
aside  in  a  glass  dish  until  very  cold. 

Eat  with  an  accompaniment  of  light  cake  and  brandied  or 
canned  peaches  or  pears.  This  will  be  found  a  very  delight- 
ful dessert. 

Corn-Starch  Blanc-mange.  J 
I  quart  of  milk. 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch,  wet  in  a  little  cold  water. 
3  eggs,  well  beaten — whites  and  yolks  separately, 
c  cup  of  sugar. 

Vanilla,  lemon,  or  other  essence. 

I  saltspoonful  salt. 
Heat  the  milk  to  boiling ;  stir  in  the  corn-starch  and  salt, 
and  boil  together  five  minutes  (in  a  farina-kettle),  then  add  the 
yolks,  beaten  light,  with  the  sugar ;  boil  two  minutes  longer, 
stirring  all  the  while ;  remove  the  mixtur from  the  fire,  and 
beat  in  the  whipped  whites  while  it  is  bo'^ing  hot.  Pour  into 
a  mould  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set  in  a  cold  place.  Eat 
with  sugar  and  cream. 

Farina  Blanc-mange 
is  made  according  to  the  above  receipt,  but  boiled  fifteen 
minutes  before  the  eggs  are  aided.    You  may  omit  the  eggs 
if  you  like,  and  only  want  a  plain  dessert. 

Arrowroot  Blanc-mange.  % 
3  cups  of  new  milk. 

2     tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot,  wet  up  with  cold  milk. 
cup  of  sugar. 

Vanilla,  lemon,  or  bitter  almond  flavoring,  with  a"' little 
white  wine. 
Q 

I 


258 


0 

COMMON  SENSE. 


Mix  the  arrowroot  to  a  smooth  batter  with  one  cup  of  the 
milk.  Heat  the  remainder  to  boiling ;  add  the  arrowroot, 
stirring  constantly.  When  it  begins  to  thicken  put  in  the 
sugar,  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer,  still  stirring  it  well  from 
the  sides  and  bottom.  Take  it  off;  heat  well  five  minutes  ; 
flavor  with  the  essence  and  a  small  wineglass  of  white  wine. 
Give  a  hard  final  stir  before  putting  it  into  a  mould  wet  with 
cold  water. 

This  is  very  nourishing  for  invalids  and  young  children. 
For  the  latter  you  may  omit  the  wine. 

Almond  Blanc-mange.  | 
I  quart  of  milk. 
I  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine. 

3  ozs.  of  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  in  a  mortar,  with 
I  tablespooniul  of  rose-water,  added  to  prevent  oiling. 
3^  cup  sugar. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boifing,  having  previously  soaked  the 
gelatine  in  a  cup  of  it  for  an  hour.  Turn  in  this  when  the  milk 
is  scalding  hot ;  add  the  pounded  almond-paste,  and  stir  all 
together  ten  minutes  before  putting  in  the  sugar.  When  the 
gelatine  has  dissolved,  remove  the  blanc-mange  from  the 
vessel  of  boiling  water  in  which  you  have  cooked  it,  and  strain 
through  a  thin  muslin  bag,  pressing  it  well  to  get  out  the  flavor 
of  the  almonds.  There  should  be  three  or  four  bitter  ones 
among  them.  Wet  a  mould  with  cold  water,  put  in  the  blanc- 
mange, and  set  in  a  cold  place  until  firm. 

You  may  make  blanc-mange  without  the  almonds,  although 
it  will  not  be  so  nice — and  substitute  vanilla  for  the  rose-water. 

Jaune-mange.  J 
I  oz.  Coxe's  gelatine,  soaked  in  half  a  cup  cold  water  one 
hour. 

I  cup  of  boiling  water. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  very  light. 


BLANC-MANGE. 


259 


I  orange,  juice  and  half  the  graLed  pccl. 

I  lemon,  juice  and  one-third  the  grated  peel, 

I  cup  white  wine  or  clear  pale  r.h^iry.- 

I  cup  powdered  sugar  and  a  good  pinch  of  cinnamon. 

Stir  the  soaked  gelatine  in  the  boiling  water  until  dissolved; 
take  from  the  fire  and  beat,  a  little  at  a  time,  into  the  yolks ; 
return  to  the  inner  saucepan  with  the  sugar,  orange,  lemon, 
and  cinnamon.  Stir  over  a  clear  .fire  until  it  is  boiling  hot ; 
put  in  the  wine  and  strain  through  a  h?iir-sieve  or  a  piece  of 
tarlatan.    Set  away  in  a  mould  wet  with  cold  ":ater. 

The  success  of  this  dish  depends  much  upon  the  stirring 
and  the  watchfulness  of  the  cook.  The  mixture  should  not  be 
allowed  to  boil  at  any  moment. 

Chocolate  Blanc-mange. 
I  quart  of  milk. 

1  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  the  milk  one 
hour. 

4  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  rubbed  up  with 
a  little  milk. 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately, 

^  cup  sugar  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling ;  pour  in  the  gelatine  and  milk, 
and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved  ;  add  the  sugar  to  the  beaten  yolks 
and  stir  until  smooth ;  beat  the  chocolate  into  this,  and  pour 
in,  spoonful  by  spoonful,  the  scalding  milk  upon  the  mixture, 
stirring  all  the  while  until  all  is  in.  Return  to  the  inner 
saucepan  and  beat  gently,  stirring  faithfully  until  it  almost 
boils.  Remove  from  fire,  turn  into  a  bowl,  and  whip  in  lightly 
and  briskly  the  beaten  whites  with  the  vanilla.  Set  to  form  in 
moulds  wet  with  cold  water. 

Charlotte  Russe.  J 
I  lb.  of  lady's-fingers. 
I  quart  rich  sweetcream. 


260 


COMMON  SENSE. 


^  cup  powdered  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  other  extract. 
Split  and  trim  the  cakes,  and  fit  neatly  in  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  two  quart  moulds.  Whip  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth  in 
a  syllabub-churn  when  you  have  sweetened  and  flavored  it ; 
fill  the  moulds,  lay  cakes  closely  together  on  the  top,  and  set 
upon  the  ice  until  needed. 

A  Tipsy  Charlotte.  J 
I  large  stale  sponge-cake. 
I  pint  rich  sweet  cream. 
I  cup  sherry  wine. 

^  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  cold  water  two 
hours. 

I  teaspoonful  vanilla  or  bitter  almond  extract. 
3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  together,  but  very  light. 
I  pint  milk. 
^  I  cup  sugar. 

'  Heat  the  cream  almost  to  boiling  ;  put  in  the  soaked 
gelatine  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  stir  until  dissolved. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  flavor,  and,  when  cool,  beat  or  churn  to 
a  standing  froth.  Cut  off  the  top  of  the  cake  in  one  piece, 
and  scoop  out  the  middle,  leaving  the  sides  and  bottom  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Over  the  inside  of  these  pour  the 
wine  in  spoonfuls,  that  all  may  be  evenly  moistened.  Fill  with 
the  whipped  cream,  replace  the  top,  which  should  also  be 
moistened  with  wine  and  set  in  a  cold  place  until  needed. 

Serve  with  it,  or  pour  around  it,  a  custard  made  of  the  eggs, 
milk,  and  the  other  half  cup  of  sugar. 

Chocolate  Charlotte  Russe. 
^  oz.  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  very  little  cold  water. 
3  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little 
milk. 

y^,  cup  powdered  sugar. 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 


261 


4  eggs. 

lb.  sponge-cake. 
I  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
I  pint  cream. 

Heat  the  cream  to  boiling,  slowly,  stirring  frequently;  add 
the  sugar,  chocolate,  and  gelatine,  and,  when  these  are  dis- 
solved, add  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  to  the  beaten  yolks.  Set 
back  in  the  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  five  minutes, 
until  very  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Take  it  off,  flavor,  and 
whip  or  churn  to  a  standing  froth,  adding  the  beaten  whites 
toward  the  last.  Line  a  mould  with  sponge-cake,  fill  with  the 
mixture,  and  set  upon  the  ice. 

Gelatine  Charlotte  Russe.  ( Very  nice.) 
I  pint  of  cream,  whipped  light. 

oz.  gelatine,  dissolved  in  i  gill  of  hot  milk. 
Whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
I  small  tea-cup  of  powdered  sugar. 
Flavored  with  bitter  almond  and  vanilla. 
Mix  the  cream,  eggs,  and  sugar ;  flavor,  and  beat  in  the 
gelatine  and  milk  last.    It  should  be  quite  cold  before  it  is 
added. 

Line  a  mould  with  slices  of  sponge-cake,  or  with  lady's  fin- 
gers, and  fill  with  the  mixture. 
Set  upon  the  ice  to  cool. 

Whipped  Syllabubs. 
I  pint  ot  cream,  rich  and  sweet. 
^  cup  sugar,  powdered. 
I  glass  of  wine. 

Vanilla  or  other  extract,  i  large  teaspoonful. 

Sweeten  the  cream,  and,  when  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved, stir  in  the  wine  carefully  with  the  flavoring  extract,  and 
churn  to  a  strong  froth. 

Heap  in  glasses,  and  eat  with  cake. 


262 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Gooseberry  Fool. 
I  quart  of  gooseberries,  ripe. 
I  tablespoonful  butter, 
I  cup  of  sugar. 
Yolks  of  four  eggs. 

Meringue  of  whites,  and  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
Stew  the  gooseberries  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them. 
When  soft  and  broken,  rub  them  through  a  sieve  to  remove 
the  skins.  While  still  hot  beat  in  the  butter,  sugar,  and  the 
whipped  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Pile  in  a  glass  dish,  or  in  small 
glasses,  and  heap  upon  the  top  a  meringue  of  the  whipped 
whites  and  sugar. 

Cream  Meringues. 
4  eggs  (the  whites  only),  whipped  stiff,  with  i  lb.  powdered 

'  sugar. 
Lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring. 

When  very  stiff,  heap  in  the  shape  of  half  an  egg  upon  stiff 
letter-paper  lining  the  bottom  of  your  baking-pan.  Have  them 
half  an  inch  apart.  Do  not  shut  the  oven-door  closely,  but 
leave  a  space  through  which  you  can  watch  them.-  When  they 
are  a  light  yellow-brown,  take  them  out  and  cool  quickly.  Slip 
a  thin-bladed  knife  under  each ;  scoop  out  the  soft  inside,  and 
fill  with  cream  whipped  as  for  Charlotte  Russe. 

They  are  very  fine.    The  oven  should  be  very  hot. 

Calf's-Foot  Jelly. 
4  calf's  feet,  cleaned  carefull3^ 
4  quarts  of  water. 

1  pint  of  wine. 

3  cups  of  sugar — or  sweeten  to  taste. 
Whites  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  nutmeg. 

Juice  of  I  lemon,  and  half  the  grated  peel. 
Boil  the  calf's  feet  in  the  water  until  it  is  reduced  one-half ; 


JELLIES. 


263 


Strain  the  liquor,  and  let  it  stand  ten  or  twelve  hours.  Skim 
off  every  particle  of  the  fat,  and  remove  the  dregs ;  melt  slowly 
in  a  porcelain  or  bell-metal  kettle,  add  the  seasoning,  sugar, 
and  the  whipped  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  boil  fast  about  twelve 
minutes,  skimming  well.  Strain  through  a  double  flannel  bag 
suspended  between  the  four  legs  of  an  upturned  high  stool  or 
backless  chair,  the  bowl  set  beneath.  Do  not  squeeze  or  shake 
it,  until  the  jelly  ceases  to  run  freely ;  then  slip  out  the  bowl, 
and  put  under  another,  into  which  you  may  gently  press  what 
remains.  The  first  will  be  the  clearer  jelly,  although  the 
second  dripping  will  taste  quite  as  well.  Wet  your  moulds, 
put  in  the  jelly,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

There  are  still  some  housekeepers  who  insist  that  the  jellies 
made  from  the  modern  gelatine  are  not  comparable  in  beauty 
and  flavor  to  those  prepared  from  the  genuine  feet.  Seeing 
means  taste  as  well  as  belief  with  them,  and  when  they  handle 
and  behold  the  beloved  feet,  they  know  what  they  are  about. 
Gelatine,  they  will  darkly  and  disgustfuUy  assert,  is  made  of 
horn-shavings  and  hoofs  and  the  like,  and  no  more  fit  to  be 
used  for  cooking  purposes  than  so  much  glue. 

Nevertheless,  while  gelatine  is  so  clean,  bright,  and  con- 
venient, housewives  who  find  the  days  now  but  half  as  long  as 
did  their  mothers,  despite  labor-saving  machines,  will  turn  a 
deaf  ear  to  these  alarmists,  and  escape  the  tedious  process 
above-described  by  using  the  valuable  substitute. 

Wine  Jelly.  J 

2  lbs.  sugar. 

I  pint  of  wine — pale  sherry  or  white. 
I  pint  of  cold  water. 
I  package  Coxe's  gelatine. 
Juice  of  two  lemons  and  grated  peel  of  one. 
I  quart  of  boiling  water. 
I  good  pinch  of  cinnamon. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  one  hour.    Add  to  this 


264 


COMMON  SENSE. 


the  sugar,  lemons,  and  cinnamon;  pour  over  all  a  quart  of 
boiling  water,  and  stir  until  the  gelatine  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved. Put  in  the  wine,  strain  through  a  double  flannel  bag, 
without  squeezing,  wet  your  moulds  with  cold  water,  and  set 
the  jelly  away  in  them  to  cool. 

Wine  Jelly  {boiled). 

I  box  Coxe's  gelatine,  soaked  in  i  pint  of  cold  water  one 
hour. 

1  quart  of  boiling  water  poured  over  this,  and  stirred  until 

the  gelatine  is  dissolved, 
lbs.  white  sugar. 

2  lemons — ^juice  and  peel. 

1  pint  wine. 

Put  all  over  the  fire,  boil  up  once  well,  and  strain  through  a 
double  flannel  bag  into  moulds. 

Orange  Jelly. 

2  oranges — ^juice  of  both  and  grated  rind  of  one. 
I  lemon — jui^e  and  peel. 

I  package  Coxe's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  very  little  water,  one 

hour. 
I  pint  boiling  water. 

I  ^  cup  sugar,  and  one  small  cup  of  wine. 
I  good  pinch  of  cinnamon. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  the  fruit  into  a  bowl,  and  put  with  them 
the  grated  peel  and  the  cinnamon.  Pour  over  them  the  boil- 
ing water,  cover  closely,  and  let  them  stand  half  an  hour. 
Strain,  add  the  sugar,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  stir  in  the  gelatine, 
and,  when  this  is  well  dissolved,  take  the  saucepan  frgm  the 
fire.    Strain  through  a  double  flannel  bag  into  moulds. 

Variegated  Jelly.  % 
I  quart  of  clear  jelly. 


ICE-CREAMS. 


265 


teaspoonful  prepared  cochineal  or  red  currant  juice. 
I  cup  white  blanc-mange. 

Divide  the  jelly  into  two  equal  portions,  and  color  one  with 
a  very  little  prepared  cochineal,  leaving  the  other  as  it  is,  of  a 
pale  amber.  Wet  a  mould  with  cold  water  and  pour  in  a  little 
of  the  latter.  Set  the  mould  in  the  ice,  that  the  jelly  may 
harden  quickly,  and  so  soon  as  it  is  firm  pour  in  carefully  some 
of  the  red.  Set  back  upon  the  ice  to  get  ready  for  the  amber, 
adding  the  two  colors  in  this  order  until  you  are  ready  for  the 
base,  which  should  be  wider  than  the  other  stripes,  and  con- 
sist of  the  white  blanc-mange.  Keep  both  jelly  and  blanc- 
mange near  the  fire  until  you  have  filled  the  mould — I  mean, 
of  course,  that  intended  for  the  last  layers.  Let  all  get  very 
firm  before  you  turn  it  out. 

You  may  vary  two  moulds  of  this  jelly  by  having  the  blanc- 
mange base  of  one  colored  with  chocolate,  a  narrow  white 
stripe  above  relieving  the  grave  effect  of  the  brown. 

Chocolate  Ice-cream,  % 

I  quart  of  cream. 

1  pint  new  milk. 

2  cups  sugar. 

2  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

5  tablespoonfuls  chocolate  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  milk. 

Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boihng,  and  pour,  by  degrees,  in 
with  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar.  Stir  in  the  chocolate,  beat 
well  three  minutes,  and  return  to  the  inner  kettle.  Heat  until 
it  thickens  well,  stirring  constantly ;  take  from  the  fire  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  Many  think  a  little  vanilla  an  improvement. 
When  the  custard  is  cold,  beat  in  the  cream.  Freeze. 

Coffee  Ice-cream. 
3  pints  of  cream. 

I  cup  black  coffee — very  strong  and  clear. 


266 


COMMON  SENSE. 


2  cups  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  arrowroot,  wet  up  with  cold  milk. 
Heat  half  the  cream  nearly  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  sugar,  and, 
when  this  is  melted,  the  coffee  ;  then  the  arrowroot.  Boil  all 
together  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  When  cold,  beat  up 
very  light,  whipping  in  the  rest  of  the  cream  by  degrees.  Then 
freeze. 

I  cannot  say  certainly  that  this  can  be  frozen  without  turn- 
ing, although  I  see  no  reason  why  it  should  not,  since  the 
arrowroot  gives  it  the  consistency  of  custard. 

Italian  Cream. 
2  pints  of  cream. 
2  cups  of  sugar. 

2  lemons — ^juice  and  grated  peel. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy. 
Sweeten  the  cream  and  beat  in  the  lemons  gradually,  not  to 
curdle  it ;  add  the  brandy  and  freeze  in  a  patent  freezer,  or  by 
turning  quickly.    In  turniug  the  freezer,  open  twice  during 
the  operation,  to  stir  and  beat  the  contents  smooth. 

Lemon-  Ice-cream.  J 

1  quart  of  cream. 

2  lemons— the  juice  of  one  and  the  grated  peel  of  one-and- 

a-half. 
2  cups  of  sugar. 

Sweeteri  the  cream,  beat  the  lemon  gradually  into  it,  and 
put  at  once  into  the  freezer.  Freeze  rapidly  in  a  patent 
freezer,  or  the  acid  is  apt  to  turn  the  milk. 

You  may  make  orange  ice-cream  in  the  same  way. 

Pine-Applp:  Ice-cream.  J 
I  quart  of  cream. 
I  large  ripe  pine-apple. 
I  lb.  powdered  sugar. 


flCE-CEEAMS. 


267 


Slice  the  pine-apple  thin,  and  scatter  the  sugar  between  the 
slices.  Cover  it,  and  let  the  fruit  steep  three  hours.  Then 
cut,  or  chop  it  up  in  the  syrup,  and  strain  it  through  a  hair 
sieve  or  bag  of  double  coarse  lace.  Beat  gradually  into  the 
cream,  and  freeze  as  rapidly  as  possible. 

You  may,  if  you  like,  reserve  a  few  pieces  of  pine  apple, 
unsugared,  cut  into  square  bits,  and  stir  them  through  the 
cream  when  half  frozen. 

Raspberry  or  Strawberry  Ice-cream.  J 

I  quart  ripe  sweet  berries. 

I  lb.  sugar. 

I  quart  fresh  cream. 
Scatter  half  the  sugar  over  the  berries  and  let  them  stand 
three  hours.  Press  and  mash  them,  and  strain  them  through 
a  thin  muslin  bag.  Add  the  rest  of  the  sugar,  and  when  dis 
solved  beat  in  the  cream  little  by  little.  Freeze  rapidly,  open- 
ing the  freezer  (if  it  is  not  a  patent  one)  several  times  to  beat 
and  stir. 

Frozen  Custard  with  the  Fruit  Frozen  in.  | 
I  quart  milk. 
I  quart  cream. 

6  eggs,  and  3  cups  of  sugar  beaten  up  with  the  yolks. 

I  pint  fresh  peaches,  cut  up  small,  or  fresh  ripe  berries. 

Heat  the  quart  of  milk  almost  to  boiling,  and  a^d  gradually 
to  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar.  Whip  in  the  frothed  whites, 
return  to  the  custard-kettle,  and  stir  until  it  is  a  thick,  soft 
custard.  Let  it  get  perfectly  cold,  beat  in  the  cream  and 
freeze.  If  you  let  it  freeze  itself,  stir  in  the  fruit  after  the 
second  beating ;  if  you  turn  the  freezer,  when  the  custard  is 
like  congealed  mush. 

Lemon  Ice.  % 
6  lemons — juice  of  all,  and  grated  peel  of  three. 


268 


COMMON  SENSE. 


I  large  sweet  orange— juice  and  rind. 
I  pint  of  water. 

1  pint  of  sugar. 

Squeeze  out  every  drop  of  juice,  and  steep  in  it  the  rind  of 
orange  and  lemons  one  hour.  Strain,  squeezing  the  bag  dry; 
mix  in  the  sugar,  and  then  the  water.  Stir  until  dissolved' 
and  freeze  by  turning  in  a  freezer— opening  three  times  to 
beat  all  up  together. 

Orange  Ice.  | 

6  oranges— juice  of  all,  and  grated  peel  of  three. 

2  lemons — the  juice  only. 

I  pint  of  sugar  dissolved  in  i  pint  of  water. 
Prepare  and  freeze  as  you  would  lemon  ice. 

Pineapple  Ice. 

I  juicy  ripe  pineapple— peeled  and  cut  small. 

Juice  and  grated  peel  of  i  lemon. 

I  pint  of  sugar. 

I  pint  of  water,  or  a  little  less. 

Strew  the  sugar  over  the  pineapple  and  let  it  stand  an  hour. 
Mash  all  up  together,  and  strain  out  the  syrup  through  a  hair- 
sieve.    Add  the  water  and  freeze. 

Cherry  Ice. 

1  quart  cherries,  with  half  the  stones  pounded  in  a  Wedge- 

wood  mortar. 

2  lemons — the  juice  only. 

I  pint  of  water,  in  which  dissolve  i  pint  of  sugar. 
I  glass  of  fine  brandy. 

Squeeze  out  the  bruised  cherries  and  stones,  in  a  bag  over 
the  sugar ;  add  the  water,  then  the  brandy,  and  freeze. 

It  will  require  a  longer  time  to  freeze  than  other  ices  on 
account  of  the  brandy. 


KIPE  FRUIT  FOR  DESSERT. 


269 


Currant  and  Raspberry  Ice.  {Fine). 
I  quart  red  currants. 
I  pint  raspberries — red  or  white. 
I  pint  of  water, 
pints  of  sugar. 

Squeeze  out  the  juice;  mix  in  the  sugar  and  water,  and 
freeze. 

Strawberry  or  Raspberry  Ice. 
I  quart  berries.    Extract  the  juice  and  strain. 
I  pint  sugar, — dissolved  in  the  juice. 
I  lemon — ^juice  only. 
^  pint  of  water. 

RIPE  FRUIT  FOR  DESSERT. 

Salade  d'Orange. 

Pare  and  slice  large  sweet  oranges ;  sprinkle  powdered 
sugar  thickly  over  each  slice,  and  pour  a  couple  of  glasses 
of  wine  on  the  top.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  all,  nnd 
serve  at  once,  or  the  fruit  will  lose  its  freshness. 

You  may  omit  the  wine  if  you  like. 

Do  not  let  any  fruit  intended  to  be  eaten  fresh  for  dessert 
lie  in  the  sugar  longer  than  is  absolutely  necessary.  It  ex- 
tracts the  flavor  and  withers  the  pulp. 

Ambrosia. 
8  fine  sweet  oranges,  peeled  and  sliced. 

grated  cocoanut. 
^  cup  powdered  sugar. 
Arrange  the  orange  in  a  glass  dish,  scatter  the  grated 
cocoanut  thickly  over  it,  sprinkle  this  lightly  with  sugar,  and 
cover  with  another  layer  of  oranges.  Fill  up  the  dish  in  this 
order,  having  cocoanut  and  sugar  for  the  top  layer.  Serve 
at  once. 


270 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Peaches  and  Pears. 

Pick  out  the  finest,  handling  as  httle  as  may  be,  and  pile 
upon  a  salver  or  flat  dish,  with  bits  of  ice  between  them,  and 
ornament  with  peach  leaves  or  fennel  sprigs. 

One  of  the  prettiest  dishes  of  fruit  I  ever  saw  upon  a 
dessert-table  was  an  open  silver  basket,  wide  at  the  top, 
heaped  with  rich  red  peaches  and  yellow  Bartlett  pears,  mter- 
spersed  with  feathery  bunches  of  green,  which  few  of  those 
who  admired  it  knew  for  carrot-tops.  Wild  white  clematis 
wreathed  the  handle  and  showed  here  and  there  among  the 
fruit,  while  scarlet  and  white  verbenas  nestled  amid  the  green. 

Send  around  powdered  sugar  with  the  fruit,  as  many  like 
to  dip  peaches  and  pears  in  it  after  paring  and  quartering 
them. 

Currants  and  Raspberries. 
Pick  the  currants  from  the  stems,  and  mix  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  raspberries.    Put  into  a  glass  bowl,  and  eat  with 
powdered  sugar. 

Frosted  Currants.  ^ 
Pick  fine  even  bunches,  and  dip  them,  one  at  a  time,  into  a 
mixture  of  frothed  white  of  egg,  and  a  very  little  cold  water. 
Drain  them  until  nearly  dry,  and  roll  in  pulverised  sugar. 
Repeat  the  dip  in  the  sugar  once  or  twice,  and  lay  them  upon 
white  paper  to  dry.  They  make  a  beautiful  garnish  for  jellies 
or  charlottes,  and  look  well  heaped  in  a  dish  by  themselves  or 
with  other  fruit. 

Plums  and  grapes  are  very  nice  frosted  in  the  same  way. 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES. 

If  jellies  are  not  so  firm  after  six  or  eight  hours  as  you 
would  have  them,  set  them  in  the  sun,  with  bits  of  window 
glass  over  them  to  keep  out  the  dust  and  insects.  Remove 


PKESERVES. 


271 


these  at  night  and  wipe  off  the  moisture  collected  on  the  under 
side.  Repeat  this  every  day  until  the  jelly  shrinks  into  firm- 
ness, filling  up  one  cup  from  another  as  need  requires.  This 
method  is  far  preferable  to  boiling  down,  which  both  injures 
the  flavor  and  darkens  the  jelly. 

Preserved  Peaches.  ^ 

Weigh  the  fruit  after  it  is  pared  and  the  stones  extracted, 
and  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  one  of  peaches.  Crack 
one  quarter  of  the  stones,  extract  the  kernels,  break  them  to 
pieces  and  boil  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  until  soft, 
when  set  aside  to  steep  in  a  covered  vessel.  Put  a  layer  of 
sugar  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  then  one  of  fruit,  and  so  on 
until  you  have  used  up  all  of  both ;  set  it  where  it  will  warm 
slowly  until  the  sugar  is  melted  and  the  fruit  hot  through. 
Then  strain  the  kernal-water  and  add  it.  Boil  steadily  until 
the  peaches  are  tender  and  clear.  Take  them  out  with  a  per- 
forated skimmer  and  lay  upon  large  flat  dishes,  crowding  as 
little  as  possible.  Boil  the  syrup  almost  to  a  jelly — that  is, 
until  clear  and  thick,  skimming  ofl"  all  the  scum.  Fill  your 
jars  two-thirds  full  of  the  peaches,  pour  on  the  boiling  syrup, 
and,  when  cold,  cover  with  brandy  tissue-paper,  then  with 
cloth,  lastly,  with  thick  paper  tied  tightly  over  them. 

The  peaches  should  be  ready  to  take  off  after  an  hour's  boil- 
ing ;  the  syrup  be  boiled  fifteen  minutes  longer,  fast,  and 
often  stirred,  to  throw  up  the  scuui.  A  few  slices  of  pineapple 
cut  up  with  the  peaches  flavor  them  finely. 

Preserved  Pears 
Are  put  up  precisely  as  are  peaches,  but  are  only  pared,  not 
divided.    Leave  the  stems  on. 

Peach  Marmalade.  % 
Pare,  stone,  and  weigh  the  fruit ;  heat  slowly  to  draw  out 
the  juice,  stirring  up  often  from  the  bottom  with  a  wooden 


272 


COMMON  SENSE. 


spoon.  After  it  is  hot,  boil  quickly,  still  stirring,  three  quarters 
of  an  hour.  Add,  then,  the  sugar,  allowing  three  quarters  of 
a  pound  to  each  pound  of  the  fruit.  Boil  up  well  for  five 
minutes,  taking  off  every  particle  of  scum.  Add  the  juice  of 
a  lemon  for  every  three  pounds  of  fruit,  and  the  water  in  which 
the  kernels  have  been  boiled  and  steeped.  Stew  all  together 
ten  minutes,  stirring  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  take  from  the  fire. 
Put  up  hot  in  air-tight  cans,  or,  when  cold,  in  small  stone  or 
glass  jars,  with  brandied  tissue-paper  fitted  neatly  to  the  surface 
of  the  marmalade. 

A  large  ripe  pineapple,  pared  and  cut  up  fine,  and  stirred 
with  the  peaches,  is  a  fine  addition  to  the  flavor. 

Preserved  Quinces.  J 
Choose  fine  yellow  quinces.  Pare,  quarter,  and  core  them, 
saving  both  skins  and  cores.  Put  the  quinces  over  the  fire 
with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  simmer  until  they 
are  soft,  but  not  until  they  begin  to  break.  Take  them  out 
carefully,  and  spread  them  upon  broad  dishes  to  cool.  Add 
the  parings,  seed,  and  cores,  to  the  water  in  which  the  quinces 
were  boiled,  and  stew,  closely  covered^  for  an  hour.  Strain 
through  a  jelly-bag,  and  to  every  pint  of  this  liquor  allow  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Boil  up  and  skim  it,  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil 
fifteen  minutes.  Take  all  from  the  fire  and  pour  into  a  large 
deep  pan.  Cover  closely  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours. 
Drain  off  the  syrup  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  put  in  the 
quinces  carefully  and  boil  another  quarter  of  an  hour.  Take 
them  up  as  dry  as  possible,  and  again  spread  out  upon  dishes, 
setting  these  in  the  hottest  sunshine  you  can  find.  Boil  the 
syrup  until  it  begins  to  jelly ;  fill  the  jars  two-thirds  full  and 
cover  with  the  syrup.  The  preserves  should  be  of  a  fine  red. 
Cover  with  brandied  tissue-paper. 

Preserved  Apples. 
Firm,  well-flavored  pippins  or  bell-flower  apples  make  an 


PRESEEVES. 


273 


excellent  preserve,  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  quinces. 
A  few  quinces  cut  up  among  them,  or  the  juice  of  two  lemon' 
to  every  three  pounds  of  fruit  improves  them.  ^ 

Quince  Marmalade.  | 
Pare,  core,  and  slice  the  quinces,  stewing  the  skins,  cores, 
and  seed  in  a  vessel  by  themselves,  with  just  enough  water  to 
cover  them.  When  this  has  simmered  long  enough  to  extract 
all  the  flavor,  and  the  parings  are  broken  to  pieces,  strain  off 
the  water  through  a  thick  cloth.  Put  the  quinces  into  the 
preserve-kettle  when  this  water  is  almost  cold,  pour  it  over 
them  and  boil,  stirring  and  mashing  the  fruit  with  a  wooden 
spoon  as  it  becomes  soft.  The  juice  of  two  oranges  to  every 
three  pounds  of  the  fruit  imparts  an  agreeable  flavor.  When 
you  have  reduced  all  to  a  smooth  paste,  stir  in  a  scant  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  every  pound  of  fruit ;  boil  ten 
minutes  more,  stirring  constantly.  Take  off,  and  when  cool 
put  into  small  jars,  with  brandied  papers  over  them. 

Apple  Butter. 

This  is  generally  made  by  the  large  quantity. 

Boil  down  a  kettleful  of  cider  to  two-thirds  the  original 
quantity.  Pare,  core,  and  slice  juicy  apples,  and  put  as  many 
into  the  cider  as  it  will  cover.  Boil  slowly,  stirring  often  with 
a  3at  stick,  and  when  the  apples  are  tender  to  breaking,  take 
them  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  draining  well  against  the 
sides  of  the  kettle.  Put  in  a  second  supply  of  apples  and 
stew  them  soft,  as  many  as  the  cider  will  hold.  Take  from 
the  fire,  pour  all  together  into  a  tub  or  large  crock ;  cover  and 
let  it  stand  twelve  hours.  Then  return  to  the  kettle  and  boil 
down,  stirring  all  the  while  until  it  is  the  consistency  of 
soft  soap,  and  brown  in  color.  You  may  spice  to  t^sfe  if  you 
^please. 

Keep  in  stone  jars  in  a  dry,  cool  place.  It  should  keep  all- 
winter. 


274 


COMMON  SENSE. 


v**  Preserved  Crab-apples.  J 

The^sred  Siberian  crab  is  best  for  this  purpose.  Pick  out 
those  that  are  nearly  perfect,  leaving  the  stems  on,  and  put  into 
a  preserve-kettle,  with  enough  warm  water  to  cover  them. 
Heat  this  to  boiling,  slowly,  and  simmer  until  the  skins  break. 
Drain  and  skin  them  ;  then,  with  a  penknife,  extract  the  cores 
through  the  blossom  ends.  Weigh  them  ;  allow  a  pound  and 
a  quarter  of  sugar  and  a  teacupful  of  water  to  every  pound  of 
fruit.  Boil  the  water  and  sugar  together  until  the  scum  ceases 
to  rise ;  put  in  the  fruit,  cover  the  kettle,  and  simmer  until 
the  apples  are  a  clear  red,  and  tender.  Take  out  with  a  skim- 
mer ;  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool  and  harden ;  add  to  the 
syrup  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  three  pounds  of  fruit,  and  boil 
until  clear  and  rich.  Fill  your  jars  three-quarters  full  of  the 
apples,  pour  the  syrup  in,  and,  when  cool,  tie  up. 

Preserved  Green-gages  and  Large  Purple  Plums.  % 

Weigh  the  fruit  and  scald  in  boiling  water  to  make  the  skins 
come  off  easily.  Let  them  stand  in  a  large  bowl  an  hour  after 
they  are  peeled,  that  the  juice  may  exude.  Drain  this  off; 
lay  the  plums  in  the  kettle,  alternately  with  layers  of  sugar, 
allowing  pound  for  pound ;  pour  the  juice  over  the  top  and 
heat  slowly  to  a  boil.  Take  out  the  plums  at  this  point,  very 
carefully,  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  draining  them  well 
through  it,  and  spread  upon  broad  dishes  in  the  sun.  Boil 
the  syrup  until  thick  and  clear,  skimming  it  faithfully.  Return 
the  plums  to  this,  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Spread  out  again 
until  cool  and  firm  ;  keeping  the  syrup  hot  on  the  fire,  fill  your 
jars  three-quarters  full  with  the  fruit ;  pour  on  the  scalding 
syrup,  cover  to  keep  in  the  heat,  and,  when  cold,  tie  up. 

Damsons 

Are  put  up  in  the  same  manner  as  plums,  but  pricked,  instead 
oi  SKmned. 


PRESERVES.  275 

Preserved  Orange  Peel.  (Very  nice.) 
Weigh  the  oranges  whole,  and  allow  pound  for  pound. 
Peel  the  oranges  neatly  and  cut  the  rind  into  narrow  shreds. 
Boil  until  tender,  changing  the  water  twice,  and  replenishing 
with  hot  from  the  kettle.  Squeeze  the  strained  juice  of  the 
oranges  over  the  sugar;  let  this  heat  to  a  boil;  put  in  the 
shreds  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 

Lemon  peel  can  be  preserved  in  the  same  way,  allowing 
more  sugar. 

Preserved  Citron  Or  Water-melon  Rind. 
Pare  off  the  green  skin,  and  the  soft,  white,  inner  rind. 
Cut  into  strips  or  into  fanciful  shapes.  Allow  a  pound  and  a 
quarter  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  rind.  Line  your  kettle 
with  vine-leaves  and  fill  with  the  rind,  scattering  a  little  pulver- 
ized alum  over  each  layer.  Cover  with  vine-leaves,  three 
thick;  pour  on  water  enough  to  reach  and  wet  these,  and  lay 
a  close  lid  on  the  top  of  the  kettle.  Let  all  steam  'together 
for  three  hours ;  but  the  water  must  not  actually  boil.  Take 
out  your  rind,  which  should  be  well  greened  by  this  process 
and  throw  at  once  into  very  cold  water.  It  should  lie  in  soak' 
changing  the  water  every  hour,  for  four  hours. 

For  the  syrup,  allow  two  cups  of  water  to  a  pound  and  a 
quarter  of  sugar.  Boil,  and  skim  it  until  no  more  scum  comes 
up;  put  in  the  rind,  and  simmer  gently  nearly  an  hour.  Take 
it  out,  and  spread  upon  the  dishes  in  the  sun  until  firm  and 
almost  cool.  Simmer  in  the  syrup  for  half  an  hour;  spread 
out  again,  and,  when  firm,  put  into  a  large  bowl,  and  pour 
over  it  the  scalding  syrup. 

Twelve  hours  later  put  the  syrup  again  over  the  fire,  adding 

the  juice  of  a  lemou  and  a  tiny  strip  of  ginger-root  for  every 

pound  of  rind.    Boil  down  until  thick;  pack  the  rind  in  jars 

^  and  pour  over  it  the  syrup.    Tie  up  when  cool. 

A  very  handsome  sweetmeat,  although  rather  insipid  in 

flavor.    The  reader  can  judge  whether,  as  the  charity  boy 


276 


COMMON  SENSE. 


said  J I  tne  alphabet,  and  the  senior  Weller  of  matrimony, 
it  is  worth  while  to  go  through  so  much  and  get  so  little. 

Preserved  Cherries.  J 

Stone  the  cherries,  preserving  every  drop  of  juice.  Weigh 
the  fruit,  allowing  pound  for  pound  of  sugar.  Put  a  layer  of 
fruit  for  one  of  sugar  until  all  is  used  up ;  pour  over  the  juice 
and  boil  gently  „until  the  syrup  begins  to  thicken. 

The  short-stem  red  cherries  or  the  Morrellas  are  best  for 
preserves.    Sweet  cherries  will  not  do. 

Strawberry  Jam.  J 

For  every  pound  of  fruit  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 

I  pint  of  red  currant  juice  to  every  4  pounds  strawberries. 

Boil  the  juice  of  the  currants  with  the  strawberries  half  an 
hour,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  the  sugar,  and  boil  up  rapidly 
for  about  twenty  minutes,  skimming  carefully.  Put  in  small 
jars,  with  brandied  tissue-paper  over  the  top. 

You  can  omit  the  currant  juice,  but  the  flavor  will  not  be 
so  fine. 

Raspberry  Jam.  | 
^  lb.  sugar  to  every  lb.  fruit 
Put  the  fruit  on  alone,  or  with  the  addition  of  a  pint  of  cur- 
rant juice  to  every  four  pounds  of  fruit.  Boil  half  an  hour, 
mashing  and  stirring  well.  Add  the  sugar,  and  cook  twenty 
minutes  more.  Blackberry  jam  is  very  nice  made  as  above, 
leaving  out  the  currant  juice. 

Gooseberry  Jam 
*   Is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  raspberry,  only  the  currant 
juice  is  omitted,  and  the  gooseberries  boiled  one  hour  without 
the  fruit,  and  another  after  it  is  put  in.    The  fruit  must  be  ripe. 

Ripe  Tomato  Preserves,  i 
7  lbs.  round  yellow,  or  egg  tomatoes— /^^/^^. 


PRESERVES. 


277 


7  lbs.  sugar,  and  juice  of  3  lemons. 
Let  them  stand  together  over  night.  Drain  off  the  syrup 
and  boil  it,  skimming  well.  Put  in  the  tomatoes  and  boil 
gently  twenty  minutes.  Take  out  the  fruit  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  and  spread  upon  dishes.  Boil  the  syrup  down  until 
it  thickens,  adding,  just  before  you  take  it  up,  the  juice  of 
three  lemons.  Put  the  fruit  into  the  jars  and  fill  up  y  ith  hot 
syrup.    When  cold,  seal  or  tie  up. 

Green  Tomato  Preserves.  {Good.) 

8  lbs.  small  green  tomatoes.    Pierce  each  with  a  fork. 
7  lbs.  sugar. 

4  lemons — the  juice  only. 
I  oz.  ginger  and  mace  mixed. 
Heat  all  together  slowly,  and  boil  until  the  fruit  is  clear. 
Take  it  from  the  kettle  in  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  spread 
upon  dishes  to  cool.    Boil  the  syrup  thick.    Put  the  fruit  int  o 
jars  and  cover  with  hot  syrup. 

Baked  Apples.  % 

Cut  out  the  blossom  end  of  sweet  apples — Campfields  01 
Pound  Sweets — with  a  sharp  penknife ;  wash,  but  do  not  pare 
them ;  pack  them  in  a  large  pudding-dish ;  pour  a  cupful  of 
water  in  the  bottom,  cover  closely  with  another  dish  or  pan ; 
set  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  steam  until  tender  all  through. 
Pour  the  liquor  over  them  while  hot,  and  repeat  this  as  they 
cool.  Set  on  the  ice  several  hours  before  tea,  and,  when  you 
are  ready,  transfer  them  to  a  glass  dish,  pouring  the  juice  over 
them  again.  Eat  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream.  Apples 
baked  in  this  way  are  more  tender  and  digestible,  and  better 
flavored,  than  those  baked  in  an  open  vessel.  Campfields  are 
particularly  good. 

Apples  Stewed  Whole.  ± 
Pare,  and  with  a  small  knife  extract  the  cores  of  fine  juicy 


278 


COMMON  SENSE, 


apples  that  are  not  too  tart ;  put  in  a  deep  dish  with  just 
enough  water  to  cover  them ;  cover  and  bake,  or  stew,  in  a 
moderate  oven,  until  they  are  tender  and  clear;  take  out  the 
apples,  put  in  a  bowl,  and  cover  to  keep  hot ;  put  the  juice 
into  a  saucepan,  with  a  cupful  of  sugar  for  twelve  apples,  and 
boil  half  an  hour.  Season  with  mace,  ginger,  or  whole  cloves, 
adding  the  spice  ten  minutes  before  you  remove  the  syrup 
from  the  fire.  Pour  scalding  over  the  apples,  and  cover  until 
cold. 

Eat  with  cream. 


FRUIT  JELLIES. 

Currant,  Blackberry,  Strawberry,  etc.  | 
Put  the  fruit  into  a  stone  jar  :  set  this  in  a  kettle  of  tepid 
water,  and  put  it  upon  the  fire.    Let  it  boil,  closely  covered, 
until  the  fruit  is  broken  to  pieces ;  strain,  pressing  the  bag  (a 
stout  coarse  one)  hard,  putting  in  but  a  few  handfuls  at  a  time, 
and  between  each  squeezing  turning  it  inside  out  to  scald  off 
the  pulp  and  skins.    To  each  pint  of  juice  allow  a  pound  of 
sugar.    Set  the  juice  on  alone  to  boil,  and  while  it  is  warming 
divide  the  sugar  into  several  different  portions,  and  put  into 
shallow  pie-dishes  or  pans  that  will  fit  in  your  ovens ;  heat  in 
these,  opening  the  ovens  now  and  then  to  stir  it  and  prevent 
burning.    Boil  the  juice  just  twenty  minutes  from  the  moment 
it  begins  fairly  to  boil.    By  this  time  the  sugar  should  be  so 
hot  you  cannot  bear  your  hand  in  it.    Should  it  melt  around 
the  edges,  do  not  be  alarmed.    The  burned  parts  will  only 
form  into  lumps  in  the  syrup,  and  can  easily  be  taken  out. 
Throw  the  sugar  into  the  boiling  juice,  stirring  rapidly  all  the 
while.    It  will  ''hiss"  as  it  falls  in,  and  melt  very  quickly. 
Withdraw  your  spoon  when  you  are  sure  it  is  dissolved.  Let 
the  jelly  just  come  to  a  boil,  to  make  all  certain,  and  take  the 
kettle  instantly  from  the^  fire.    Roll  your  glasses  or  cups  in 


FRUIT  JP]LTJES. 


279 


hot  water,  and  fill  with  the  scalding  liquid.  If  these  directions 
be  strictly  followed,  and  the  fruit  is  at  the  proper  state  of  ripe- 
ness, there  need  be  no  dread  of  failure.  I  have  often  had  the 
jelly  "  form"  before  I  filled  the  last  glass. 

I  wish  it  were  in  my  power,  by  making  known  the  advan- 
tages of  the  process  I  have  described,  to  put  an  end  to  the 
doubts  and  anxieties  attendant  upon  the  old-fashioned  method 
of  boiling  jelly  into  a  preserve.  This  plan  is  so  simple  and 
safe,  the  jelly  made  so  superior  in  flavor  and  color  to  that  pro- 
duced by  boiling  down  juice  and  fruit,  that  no  one  who  has 
ever  tried  both  ways  can  hesitate  to  give  it  the  preference.  I 
have  put  up  jelly  in  no  other  way  for  twelve  years,  and  have 
never  failed  once. 

Strawberry  jelly  should  have  a  little  lemon-juice  added  to 
that  of  the  fruit.  Both  it  and  blackberry,  and  very  ripe  rasp- 
berry jelly,  are  apt  to  be  less  firm  than  that  made  from  more 
tart  fruits ;  still,  do  not  boil  it.  Set  it  in  the  sun,  as  I  have 
directed  at  the  beginning  of  the  section  upon  preserves  and 
fruit  jellies,  filling  one  cup  from  another  as  the  contents  shrink. 
The  sun  will  boil  it  down  with  less  waste,  and  less  injury  to 
color  and  taste,  than  the  fire  will.  Cooking  jelly  always 
darkens  it 

Put  brandied  tissue-paper  over  the  top  of  each  glass  when 
cold  and  firm,  paste  a  thick  paper  over  it,  and  keep  in  a  dry 
place. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Jelly,  t 
To  two  parts  red  raspberries  or  "  Blackcaps,"  put  one  of  red 
currants,  and  proceed  as  with  other  berry  jelly. 

The  flavor  is  exquisite.    This  jelly  is  especially  nice  for  cake. 

Peach  Jelly,  t 
Crack  one-third  of  the  kernels  and  put  them  in  the  jar  with 
the  peaches,  which  should  be  pared,  stoned,  and  sliced.  Heat 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  stirrmoj  trora  time       tivne  until  the 
fruit  is  well  broken.    Strain,  and  to  eve^y  pint  of  peach  juice 


280 


COMMON  SENSEt 


add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.    Measure  again,  allowing  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  liquid.    Heat  the  sugar  very  hot,  and  add 
when  the  juice  has  boiled  twenty  minutes.    Let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  and  take  instantly  from  the  fire. 
This  is  very  fine  for  jelly-cake. 

Green  Fox  Grape  Jelly  | 
Is  made  after  the  receipt  for  currant  jelly,  only  allowing  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice. 
Ripe  grapes  require  but  pound  for  pint. 

Quince  Jelly.  | 
Pare  and  slice  the  quinces,  and  add  for  every  five  pounds  of 
fruit  a  cup  of  water.    Put  peelings,  cores,  and  all  into  a  stone 
jar;  set  this  in  a  pot  of  boiUng  water,  and,  when  the  fruit  is 
soft  and  broken,  proceed  as  with  other  jellies. 

Crab-apple  Jelly.  | 

Cut  Siberian  crab-apples  to  pieces,  but  do  not  pare  or  re- 
move the  seeds.  The  latter  impart  a  peculiarly  pleasant  flavor 
to  the  fruit.  Put  into  a  stone  jar,  set  in  a  pot  of  hot  water, 
and  let  it  boil  eight  or  nine  hours.  Leave  in  the  jar  all  night, 
covered  closely.  Next  morning,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  allow 
pound  for  pint,  and  manage  as  you  do  currant  jelly. 

Should  the  apples  be  very  dry,  add  a  cup  of  water  for  every 
six  pounds  of  fruit. 

There  is  no  finer  jelly  than  this  in  appearance  and  in  taste. 


CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 

Within  a  few  years  canned  fruits  have,  in  a  great  measure, 
superseded  preserves.  They  are  cheaper,  more  wholesome, 
and  far  more  difficult  to  prepare.  Attention  to  a  few  general 
rules  will  insure  success  to  every  housekeeper  who  sensibly 


CANNED  FKUITS  AND  VEGETABLES.  281 

prefers  to  put  up  her  own  season's  supply  of  these  to  purchasing 
those  for  double  the  cost,  which  are  not  nearly  so  good. 

First,  examine  cans  and  elastics  narrowly  before  you  begin 
operations.  See  that  the  screw  is  in  order,  the  can  without 
crack  or  nick,  the  elastic  firm  and  closely  fitting. 

Secondly,  have  the  fruit  boiling  hot  when  sealed.  Have 
upon  the  range  or  stove  a  pan  in  which  each  empty  can  is  set 
to  be  filled  after  it  is  rolled  in  hot  water.  Lay  elastic  and  top 
close  to  your  hand,  fill  the  can  to  overflowing,  remembering 
that  the  fruit  will  shrink  as  it  cools,  and  that  a  vacuum  invites 
the  air  to  enter;  clap  on  the  top  without  the  loss  of  a  second 
screw  as  tightly  as  you  can,  and  as  the  contents  and  the  can 
cool,  screw  again  and  again  to  fit  the  contraction  of  metal  and 
glass. 

Thirdly,  if  you  use  glass  cans  (they  are  cheapest  in  the  end, 
for  you  can  use  them  year  after  year,  getting  new  elastics  when 
you  need  them)  keep  them  in  a  cool,  dark  place,  and  dry  as 
well  as  cool.  The  light  will  cause  them  to  ferment,  and  also 
change  the  color. 

Canned  Peaches,  J 
Pare,  cut  in  half  and  stone,  taking  care  not  to  break  the 
fruit;  drop  each  piece  in  cold  water  as  soon  as  it  is  pared 
The  large,  white  freestone  peaches  are  nicest  for  this  purpose* 
Firmness  of  texture  is  a  desideratum.    The  fruit  should  be 
ripe,  but  not  soft.    Allow  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to 
each  quart  of  fruit,  scattering  it  between  the  layers  Fill 
your  kettle  and  heat  slowly  to  a  boil.    Boil  three  minutes 
just  to  assure  yourself  that  every  piece  of  fruit  is  heated 
through.    Can  and  seal.    It  is  safe  to  put  a  cupful  of  water 
in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  before  packing  it  with  fruit  lest 
the  lower  layer  should  burn.  ' 

Canned  Pears.  | 
For  the  finer  varieties,  such  as  the  Bartlett  and  5^ckel 
prepare  a  syrup,  allowing  a  pint  of  pure  watei  and  a  quartet 


282 


COMMON  SENSE. 


of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  fruit.  While  this  is  heating, 
peel  the  pears,  dropping  each,  as  it  is  pared,  into  a  pan  of 
clean  water,  lest  the  color  should  change  by  exposure  to  the 
air.  When  the  syrup  has  come  to  a  fast  boil,  put  in  the  pears 
carefully,  not  to  bruise  them,  and  boil  until  they  look  clear 
and  can  be  easily  pierced  by  a  fork.  Have  the  cans  ready, 
rolled  in  hot  water,  pack  with  the  pears  and  fill  to  overflowing 
with  the  scalding  syrup,  which  must  be  kept  on  the  fire  all  the 
while,  and  seal. 

The  tougher  and  more  common  pears  must  be  boiled  in 
water  until  tender ;  thrown  while  warm  into  the  hot  syrup, 
then  allowed  to  boil  ten  minutes  before  they  are  canned. 

Apples  may  be  treated  in  either  of  the  above  ways  as  their 
texture  may  seem  to  demand. 

Canned  Plums.  { 

Prick  with  a  needle  to  prevent  bursting ;  prepare  a  syrup 
allowing  a  gill  of  pure  water  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  every  three  quarts  of  fruit.  When  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved and  the  water  blood-warm,  put  in  the  plums.  Heat 
slowly  to  a  boil.  Let  them  boil  five  minutes — not  fast  or  they 
will  break  badly,  fill  up  the  jars  with  plums,  pour  in  the  scald- 
ing syrup  until  it  runs  down  the  sides,  and  seal. 

Green-gages  are  very  fine  put  up  in  this  way ;  also  damsons 
for  pies. 

Canned  Tomatoes.  | 
I  don't  hold  with  any  of  these  new-fangled  notions,"  said 
an  old  lady  to  me,  when  I  mentioned  that  my  canning  was 
over  for  the  summer.  I  was  beguiled,  two  years  ago,  into 
putting  up  some  tomaytesses  in  cans,  and  if  I'm  forgiven  for 
that  folly  I'll  never  tempt  Providence  in  the  same  manner 
again." 

"  They  didn't  keep,  then  ?  " 

"  Keep  !  they  sp'iled  in  a  week  !  'Twas  no  more'n  I  ex- 
pected and  deserved  for  meddling  with  such  a  humbug." 


CAN||^  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES.  283 

"  Perhaps  you  did  not  follow  the  directions  closely." 

"Indeed  I  did !  I  cooked  the  tormented  things,  and 
seasoned  'em  with  butter  and  salt,  all  ready  for  the  table,  and 
screwed  the  tops  down  tight.    But,  in  course,  they  sp'iled !  " 

"  Were  you  careful  to  put  them  into  the  cans  boiling  hot  ?" 

"  'Twould  have  cracked  the  glass  !  I  let  'em  get  m'ce  afid 
cold  first.  I  didn't  suppose  it  made  any  difference  about  such 
a  trifle  as  that ! " 

Poor  old  lady  !  I  think  of  her  and  her  mighty  temptation 
of  Providence  whenever  I  can  tomatoes,  for  heat  does  make 
a  difference— all  the  difference  in  the  world  in  this  sort  of 
work. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  tomatoes  to  loosen  the  skins. 
Remove  these;  drain  off  all  the  juice  that  will  come  away 
without  pressing  hard ;  put  them  into  a  kettle  and  heat  slowly 
to  a  boil.  Your  tomatoes  will  look  much  nicer  if  you  remove 
all  the  hard  parts  before  putting  them  on  the  fire,  and  rub  the 
pulp  soft  with  your  hands.  Boil  ten  minutes,  dip  out  the 
surplus  liquid,  pour  the  tomatoes,  boiling  hot,  in  the  cans,  and 
seal.    Keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Preserved  Green  Corn.  % 

Boil  on  the  cob  until  the  milk  ceases  to  flow  when  the  grain 
is  pricked.  Cut  off  the  corn  and  pack  in  stone  jars  in  the 
followmg  order  :-A  layer  of  salt  at  the  bottom,  half  an  inch 
deep.  Then  one  of  corn  two  inches  in  depth,  another  half- 
mch  of  salt,  and  so  on  until  the  jar  is  nearly  filled.  Let  the 
topmost  layer  of  salt  be  double  the  depth  of  the  others,  and 
pour  over  all  melted— not  hot— lard.  Press  upon  this,  when 
nearly  hard,  thick  white  paper,  cut  to  fit  the  mouth  of  the 
jar.    Keep  in  a  cool  place.    Soak  over  night  before  using  it. 

Green  corn  is  difficult  to  can,  but  I  know  it  will  keep  well 
ifputupinthis  way.  And,  strange  to  tell,  be  so  fresh  after 
the  night's  soaking  as  to  require  salt  when  you  boil  it  for  the 


284  COMMON  SENSE^ 

table.  Should  the  top  layer  be  musty,  dip  lower  still,  and  you 
will  probably  be  rewarded  for  the  search. 


BRANDIED  FRUITS. 

Brandied  Peaches  or  Fears.  J 
4  lbs.  fruit. 
4  lbs.  sugar. 

I  pint  best  white  brandy. 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  enough  water  to  dissolve  it. 
Let  this  come  to  a  boil ;  put  the  fruit  in  and  boil  five  min- 
utes. Having  removed  the  fruit  carefully,  let  the  syrup  boil 
fifteen  minutes  longer,  or  until  it  thickens  well;  add  the 
brandy,  and  take  the  kettle  at  once  from  the  fire ;  pour  the 
hot  syrup  over  the  fruit,  and  seal.  |^ 

If,  after  the  fruit  is  taken  from  the  fire,  a  reddish  liquor 
oozes  from  it,  drain  this  off  before  adding  the  clear  syrup.  Put 
up  in  glass  jars. 

Peaches  and  pears  should  be  peeled  for  brandying.  Plums 
should  be  pricked  and  watched  carefully  for  fear  of  bursting. 

Brandied  Cherries  or  Berries.  | 

Make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  half  gill  of  water 
for  every  two  lbs.  of  fruit.  Heat  to  boiling,  stirring  to  pre- 
vent burning,  and  pour  over  the  berries  while  vi2iXm—not  hot. 
Let  them  stand  together  an  hour ;  put  all  into  a  preserving- 
kettle,  and  heat  slowly ;  boil  five  minutes,  take  out  the  fruit 
with  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  boil  the  syrup  twenty  minutes. 
Add  a  pint  of  brandy  for  every  five  pounds  of  fruit;  pour  over 
the  berries  hot,  and  seal. 


4 


CANDIES. 


285 


CANDIES. 
Molasses  Candy.  J 
I  quart  good  molasses. 
^  cup  vinegar. 
I  cup  sugar. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

I  teaspoonful  saleratus. 
Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  vinegar,  mix  with  the  molasses, 
and  boil,  stirring  frequently,  until  it  hardens  when  dropped 
from  the  spoon  into  cold  water ;  then  stir  in  the  butter  and 
soda,  the  latter  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Flavor  to  your  taste, 
give  one  hard  final  stir,  and  pour  into  buttered  dishes.  As  it 
cools,  cut  into  squares  for  "  taffey,"  or,  while  soft  enough  to 
handle,  pull  white  into  sticks,  using  only  the  buttered  tips  of 
your  fingers  for  that  purpose. 

Sugar-Candy.  | 
6  cups  of  sugar. 
I  cup  of  vinegar. 
I  cup  of  water. 

Tablespoonful  of  butter,  put  in  at  the  last,  with 
I  teaspoonful  saleratus  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Boil,  without  stirring,  half  an  hour,  or  until  it  crisps  in  cold 
water.    Pull  white  with  the  tips  of  your  fingers. 

Since  children  must  eat  candy,  this  is  the  best  you  can  give 
them.    It  is  very  nice.    Flavor  to  taste. 


PICKLES. 

Use  none  but  the  best  cider  vinegar ;  especially  avoid  the 
sharp  colorless  liquid  sold  under  that  name.  It  is  weak 
sulphuric  acid,  warranted  to  riddle  the  coat  of  any  stomach, 
even  that  of  an  ostrich,  if  that  bird  were  so  bereft  of  the 


286  COMMON  SENSE.  |k 

instinct  of  self-preservation  as  to  make  a  lunch  of  bright- 
green  cucumber-pickle  seven  times  a  week. 

If  you  boil  pickles  in  bell-metal,  do  not  let  them  stand  in 
it  one  moment  when  it  is  off  the  fire ;  and  see  for  yourself 
I  that  it  is  perfectly  clean  and  newly  scoured  before  the  vinegar 
is  put  in. 

Keep  pickles  in  glass  or  hard  stoneware ;  look  them  over 
every  month ;  remove  the  soft  ones,  and  if  there  are  several 
of  these,  drain  off  and  scald  the  vinegar,  adding  a  cup  of 
sugar  for  each  gallon,  and  pour  hot  over  the  pickles.  If 
they  are  keeping  well,  throw  in  a  liberal  handful  of  sugar  for 
every  gallon,  and  tie  them  up  again.  This  tends  to  preserve 
them,  and  mellows  the  sharpness  of  the  vinegar.  This  does 
not  apply  to  sweet  pickle. 

Pickle,  well  made,  is  better  when  a  year  old  than  at  the  end 
of  six  months.  I  have  eaten  walnut  pickle  ten  years  old  that 
was  very  fine. 

Keep  your  pickles  well  covered  with  vinegar. 

If  you  use  ground  spices,  tie  them  up  in  thin  muslin  bags. 

Cucumber  or  Gherkin  Pickle.  | 
Choose  small  cucumbers,  or  gherkins,  for  this  purpose. 
They  are  more  tender,  and  look  better  on  the  table.  Reject 
all  over  a  finger  in  length,  and  every  one  that  is  misshapen  or 
specked,  however  slightly.  Pack  in  a  stone  jar  or  wooden 
bucket,  in  layers,  strewing  salt  thickly  between  these.  Cover 
the  top  layer  out  of  sight  with  salt,  and  pour  on  cold  water 
enough  to  cover  all.  Lay  a  small  plate  or  round  board  upon 
them,  with  a  clean  stone  to  keep  it  down.  You  may  leave 
them  in  the  brine  for  a  week  or  a  month,  stirring  up  from  the 
bottom  every  other  day.  If  the  longer  time,  be  sure  your 
salt  and  water  is  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg.  If  you 
raise  your  own  cucumbers,  pick  them  every  day,  and  drop  in 
the  pickle.  When  you  are  ready  to  put  them  up,  throw  away 
the  brine,  with  any  cucumbers  that  may  have  softened  under 


PICKLES. 


287 


the  process,  and  lay  the  rest  in  cold  fresh  water  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  Change  the  water  then  for  fresh,  and  leave  it  for 
another  day.  Have  a  kettle  ready,  lined  with  green  vine- 
leaves,  and  lay  the  pickles  evenly  within  it,  scattering  powdered 
alum  over  the  layers.  A  bit  of  alum  as  large  as  a  pigeon-egg 
will  be  enough  for  a  two-gallon  kettleful.  Fill  with  cold 
water,  cover  with  vine-leaves,  three  deep  ;  put  a  close  lid  or 
inverted  pan  over  all,  and  steam  over  a  slow  fire  five  or  six 
hours,  not  allowing  the  water  to  boil.  When  the  pickles  are  a 
fine  green,  remove  the  leaves  and  throw  the  cucumbers  into 
very  cold  water.  Let  them  stand  in  it  while  you  prepare  the 
vmegar.  To  one  gallon  allow  a  cup  of  sugar,  three  dozen 
whole  black  peppers,  the  same  of  cloves,  half  as  much  allspice, 
one  dozen  blades  of  mace.  Boil  five  minutes ;  put  the  cucum- 
bers into  a  stone  jar,  and  pour  the  vinegar  over  them  scalding 
hot.  Cover  closely.  Two  days  afterward  scald  the  vinegar 
again  and  return  to  the  pickles.  Repeat  this  process  three 
times  more,  at  intervals  of  two,  four,  and  six  days.  Cover 
with  a  stoneware  or  wooden  top  ;  tie  stout  cloth  over  this,  and 
keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  They  will  be  ready  for  eating  in 
two  months.    Examine  every  few  weeks. 

Pickled  Mangoes,  i 
Young  musk  or  nutmeg  melons. 
English  mustard-seed,  two  handfuls,  mixed  with 
Scraped  horseradish,  one  handful. 
Mace  and  nutmeg  pounded,  i  teaspoonful. 
Chopped  garlic,  2  teaspoonfuls. 
A  little  ginger.  |||^ 
Whole  pepper-corns,  i  dozen. 

}4  tablespoonful  of  ground  mustard  to  a  pint  of  the  mixture. 
I  "  sugar  to  the  same  quantity. 

I  "  best  salad  oil  to  the  same. 

I  teaspoonful  celery-seed. 

Cut  a  slit  in  the  side  of  the  melon  ;  insert  your  finger  and 


288 


COMMON  SENSE. 


extract  all  the  seeds.  If  you  cannot  get  them  out  in  this  way, 
cut  a  slender  piece  out,  saving  it  to  replace, — but  the  slit  is 
better.  Lay  the  mangoes  in  strong  brine  for  three  days. 
Drain  off  the  brine,  and  freshen  in  pure  water  twenty-four 
hours.  Green  as  you  would  cucumbers,  and  lay  in  cold  water 
until  cold  and  firm.  Fill  with  the  stuffing ;  sew  up  the  sHt,  or 
tie  up  with  packthread ;  pack  in  a  deep  stone  jar,  and  pour 
scalding  vinegar  over  them.  Repeat  this  process  three  times 
more  at  intervals  of  two  days,  then  tie  up  and  set  away  in  a 
cool,  dry  place. 

They  will  not  be  "  ripe"  under  four  months,  but  are  very  fine 
when  they  are.    They  will  keep  several  years. 

Pepper  Mangoes  J 
Are  put  up  in  the  same  way,  using  green  peppers  that  are  full- 
grown,  but  not  tinged  with  red. 

They  are  very  good,  but  your  fingers  will  smart  after  thrust- 
ing them  into  the  peppers  to  pull  out  the  seeds.  For  this  pur- 
pose I  have  used,  first,  a  small  penknife,  to  cut  the  core  from 
its  attachment  to  the  stem-end  of  the  pepper,  then  a  smooth 
bit  of  stick,  to  pry  open  the  slit  in  the  side  and  work  out  the 
loose  core  or  bunch  of  seed.  By  the  exercise  of  a  little  in- 
genuity you  may  spare  yourself  all  suffering  from  this  cause. 
Should  your  fingers  burn  badly,  anoint  them  with  sweet-oil  and 
wear  gloves  that  night.    Cream  will  also  allay  the  smart. 

Pickled  Cabbage  ( Yellow). 

2  gallons  vinegar. 

I  pint  white  mustard-seed. 
4  oz.  ginger. 

3  oz.  pepper-corns. 

1  oz.  allspice.  ,         j  j  /- 

^  \  pounded  fine. 

2  oz.  cloves. 

1  oz.  mace. 
0     I  oz.  nutmeg. 

2  oz.  turmeric. 


PICKLES. 


289 


I  large  handful  of  garlic,  chopped. 

1  handful  scraped  horseradish. 
4  lbs.  sugar. 

2  oz.  celery  seed. 

3  lemons,  sliced  thin. 

Mix  all  and  set  in  the  sun  for  three  days. 

To  prepare  the  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters — leaving  off  the 
outer  and  green  leaves — and  put  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  brine. 
Cook  three  minutes.  Take  out,  drain,  and  cover  thickly  with 
salt.  Spread  out  in  the  sun  to  dry ;  then  shake  off  the  salt, 
and  cover  with  cold  vinegar  in  which  has  been  steeped  enough 
turmeric  to  color  it  well.  Leave  it  in  this  two  weeks,  to  draw 
out  the  salt  and  to  plump  the  cabbage.  They  are  then  ready 
to  pack  down  in  the  seasoned  vinegar.  Do  not  use  under  six 
weeks  or  two  months. 

Pickled  Onions. 

Peel  the  onions,  which  should  be  fine  white  ones — not  too 
large.  Let  them  stand  in  strong  brine  for  four  days,  changing 
it  twice.  Heat  more  brine  to  a  boil,  throw  in  the  onions,  and 
boil  three  minutes.  Throw  them  at  once  into  cold  water,  and 
leave  them  there  four  hours.  Pack  in  jars,  interspersing  with 
whole  mace,  white  pepper-corns,  and  cloves.  Fill  up  with 
scalding  vinegar  in  which  you  have  put  a  cupful  of  sugar  for 
every  gallon.    Cork  while  hot. 

They  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  month,  but  will  be  better  at 
the  end  of  three  months. 

Green  Beans  and  Radish  Pods. 
Take  young  French  or  "  string"  beans,  ana  radish  pods  just 
before  they  change  color ;  green  and  pickle  as  you  do  cucum- 
bers and  gherkins. 

Pickled  Cauliflowers.  X 
Pick  the  whitest  and  closest  bunches.    Cut  into  smal^  sprays 
or  clusters.    Plunge  into  a  kettle  of  scalding  brine  ai*d  l?oU 


200 


COmiON  SENSE. 


three  minutes.  Take  them  out,  lay  upon  a  sieve  or  a  cloth, 
sprinkle  thickly  with  salt,  and,  when  dry,  brush  this  off.  Cover 
with  cold  vinegar  for  two  days,  setting  the  jar  in  the  sun.  Then 
pack  carefully  in  glass  or  stoneware  jars,  and  pour  over  them 
scalding  vinegar  seasoned  thus  : 

To  one  gallon  allow  a  cup  of  white  sugar,  a  dozen  blades  of 
mace,  a  tablespoonful  of  celery-seed,  two  dozen  white  pepper- 
corns and  some  bits  of  red  pepper  pods,  a  tablespoonful  of 
coriander-seed,  and  the  same  of  whole  mustard.  Boil  five 
minutes.  Repeat  the  scalding  once  a  week  for  three  weeks ; 
tie  up  and  set  away.  Keep  the  cauliflowers  under  the  vinegar 
by  putting  a  small  plate  on  top. 

■  Green  Tomato  Soy.  | 

2  gallons  tomatoes,  green,  and  sliced  without  peeling. 
12  good-sized  onions,  also  sliced. 
2  quarts  vinegar. 

1  quart  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

2  "  ground  mustard. 

2  "  black  pepper,  ground. 

I  tablespoonful  allspice. 
I  "  cloves. 

Mix  all  together  and  stew  until  tender,  stirring  often  lest 
they  should  scorch.    Put  up  in  small  glass  jars. 

This  is  a  most  useful  and  pleasant  sauce  for  almost  every 
kind  of  meat  and  fish. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle    {Very good.)  I 
7  lbs.  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced. 
3}^  lbs.  sugar. 

I  oz.  cinnamon  and  mace  mixed. 
I  "  cloves. 
;        I  quart  of  vinegar. 
Mix  all  together  and  stew  an  hour. 


PICKLES. 


291 


Sweet  Pickle — Plumbs,  Pears,  Peaches,  or  other  Fruits.  | 

7  lbs.  fruit,  pared. 
4        white  sugar. 
I  pint  strong  vinegar. 
Mace,  cinnamon,  and  cloves. 
Pare  peaches  and  pears ;  prick  plums  and  damsons,  toma- 
toes, "  globes"  or  husk  tomatoes  (otherwise  known  as  ground- 
plums),  put  into  the  kettle  with  alternate  layers  of  sugar.  Heat 
slowly  to  a  boil ;  add  the  vinegar  and  spice ;  boil  five  minutes  ; 
take  out  the  fruit  with  a  perforated  skimmer  and  spread  upon 
dishes  to  cool.    Boil  the  syrup  thick  ;  pack  the  fruit  in  glass 
jars,  and  pour  the  syrup  on  boiling  hot. 

Examine  every  few  days  for  the  first  month,  and  should  it 
show  signs  of  fermenting  set  the  jars  (uncovered)  in  a  kettle  of 
water,  and  heat  until  the  contents  are  scalding. 

Husk  tomatoes — a  fruit  which  looks  like  a  hybrid  between 
the  tomato  and  plumb — are  particularly  nice  put  up  in  this  way. 

Pickled  Peaches. 

lo  lbs.  fruit — pared. 
4^  "  sugar. 
I  quart  vinegar. 

Mace,  cinnamon,  and  cloves  to  taste. 
Lay  the  peaches  in  the  sugar  for  an  hour ;  drain  off  every 
drop  of  syrup,  and  put  over  the  fire  with  about  a  cup  of  wafer 
Boil  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise.  Skim  ;  put  in  the  fruit  and 
boil  five  minutes.  Take  out  the  peaches  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  and  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool.  Add  the  vinegar 
and  spices  to  the  syrup.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  longer,  and  pour 
over  the  fruit  in  glass  jars. 

Pickled  Cherries.  J 

Morella,  or  large  red  tart  cherries,  as  fresh  as  you  can  gel 
them.    To  every  quart  allow  a  large  cup  of  vinegar  and  two 


.1 


202 


COmiON  SENSE. 


tablespoonfals  of  sugar,  with  a  dozen  whole  cloves  and  half  a 
dozen  blades  of  mace. 

Pat  the  vinegar  and  sugar  on  to  heat  with  the  spices.  Boil 
five  minutes  ;  turn  out  into  a  covered  stoneware  vessel,  cover, 
and  let  it  get  perfectly  cold.  Strain  out  the  spices,  fill  small 
jars  three-quarters  of  the  way  to  the  top  with  fruit,  and  pour 
the  cold  vinegar  over  them.  Cork  or  cover  tightly.  Leave 
the  stems  on  the  cherries. 


DRINKS. 


To  MAKE  Coffee  {boiled). 
I  full  coffee-cup       pint)  of  ground  coffee. 
I  quart  of  boiling  water. 
White  of  an  egg,  and  crushed  shell  of  same. 
^  cup  of  cold  water  to  settle  it. 
Stir  up  the  eggshell  and  the  white  (beaten)  with  the  coffee, 
and  a  very  little  cold  water,  and  mix  gradually  with  the  boiling 
water  in  the  coffee-boiler.    Stir  from  the  sides  and  top  as  it 
boils  up.    Boil  pretty  fast  twelve  minutes ;  pour  in  the  cold 
water  and  take  from  the  fire,  setting  gently  upon  the  hearth  to 
settle.    In  five  minutes,  pour  it  off  carefully  into  your  silver, 
china,  or  Britannia  coffee-pot,  which  should  be  previously  well 
scalded. 

Send  to  table  hot. 

Caf6  au  Lait. 
I  pint  very  ?>lror\g-7nade  coffee — fresh  and  hot. 
I    "   boiling  milk. 
The  coffee  should  be  poured  off  the  grounds  through  a  fine 
strainer  (thin  muslin  is  the  best  material)  into  the  table  coffee- 
pot.   Add  the  milk,  and  set  the  pot  where  it  will  keep  hot  for 
five  minutes  before  pouring]it  out. 


DRINKS. 


29S 


Tea. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  tea  to  one  large  cupful  of  boiling  water. 

Scald  the  teapot  well,  put  in  the  tea,  and,  covering  close, 
set  it  on  the  stove  or  range  one  minute  to  warm ;  pour  on 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it  well,  and  let  it  stand  ten 
minutes  to  "  draw."  Keep  the  lid  of  the  pot  shut,  and  set  in 
a  warm  place,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Fill  up  with  as  much 
boiling  water  as  you  will  need,  and  send  hot  to  the  table,  after 
pouring  into  a  heated  china  or  silver  pot. 

The  bane  of  tea  in  many  households  is  unboiled  water.  It 
can  never  extract  the  flavor  as  it  should,  although  it  steeps  for 
hours.  The  kettle  should  not  only  steam,  but  bubble  and  puff 
in  a  hard  boil  before  you  add  water  from  it  to  the  tea-leaves 

Boiling  after  the  tea  is  made,  injures  the  flavor,  either  by 
deadening  or  making  it  rank  and  herby." 

Chocolate.  % 

6  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate  to  each  pint  of  water. 

As  much  milk  as  you  have  water. 

Sweeten  to  taste. 
Put  on  the  water  boiling  hot.    Rub  the  chocolate  smooth  in 
a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  water.    Boil  twenty 
minutes ;  add  the  milk  and  boil  ten  minutes  more,  stirring 
frequently.    You  can  sweeten  upon  the  fire  or  in  the  cups. 

Cocoa  Nibs,  or  Shells.  % 

1  quart  of  boiling  water. 

2  ozs.  of  cocoa  nibs. 
I  quart  fresh  milk. 

Wet  the  shells  or  nibs  up  with  a  little  cold  water ;  add  to 
the  boiling,  and  cook  one  hour  and  a  half;  strain,  put  in  the 
milk,  let  it  heat  almost  to  boiling,  and  take  from  the  fire. 

This  is  excellent  for  invalids. 


co:srMON  sense. 


Prepared  Cocoa.  J 

1  quart  of  water,  boiling. 

2  ozs.  prepared  cocoa — Baker's  is  best. 
I  quart  of  milk. 

Make  as  you  do  chocolate — only  boil  nearly  an  hour  before 
you  add  the  milk,  after\Yard  heating  to  boiling.  Sweeten 

to  taste. 

Milk  Tea  (for  Children). 
I  pint  fresh  milk  and  the  same  of  boiling  water.    Sweeten  to 
taste. 

Raspberry  Royal. 
4  quarts  ripe  berries. 
I  quart  best  cider  vinegar. 
I  lb.  white  sugar. 
I  pint  fine  brandy. 
Put  the  berries  in  a  stone  jar,  pour  the  vinegar  over  them, 
and  the  sugar,  and  pound  the  berries  to  a  paste  with  a  wooden 
pestle,  or  mash  with  a  spoon.    Let  them  stand  in  the  sun  four 
hours ;  strain  and  squeeze  out  all  the  juice,  and  put  in  the 
brandy.    Seal  up  in  bottles ;  lay  them  on  their  sides  in  the 
cellar,  and  cover  with  sawdust. 

Stir  two  tablespoonfuls  into  a  tumbler  of  ice-water  when  you 
wish  to  use  it. 

Raspberry  Vinegar,  % 

Put  the  raspberries  into  a  stone  vessel  and  mash  them  to  a 
pulp.  Add  cider-vinegar — no  specious  imitation,  but  the 
genuine  article — enough  to  cover  it  well.  Stand  in  the  sun 
twelve  hours,  and  all  night  in  the  cellar.  Stir  up  well  occa- 
sionally during  this  time.  Strain,  and  put  as  many  fresh  ber- 
ries in  the  jar  as  you  took  out ;  pour  the  strained  vinegar  over 
them  ;  mash  and  set  in  the  sun  all  day.  Strain  a  second  time 
next  day.    To  each  quart  of  this  juice  allow 

I  pint  of  water. 

5  lbs.  of  sugar  (best  white)  for  every  3  pints  of  this  liquid, 
juice  and  water  mingled.' 


DRINKS. 


^95 


Place  over  a  gentle  fire  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Heat  slowly  to  boiling,  skimming  off  tlie  scum,  and  as  soon  as 
it  fairly  boils  take  off  and  strain.  Bottle  while  warm,  and  seal 
the  corks  with  sealing-wax,  or  bees'  wax  and  rosin. 

A  most  refreshing  and  pleasant  drink. 

Currant  Wine. 
Pick,  stem,  mash,  and  strain  the  currants,  which  should  be 
very  ripe. 

To  I  quart  of  juice  add 
^  lb.  white  sugar. 
Yn  pint  of  water. 
Stir  all  together  long  and  well;  put  into  a  clean  cask,  leav- 
ing out  the  bung,  and  covering  the  whole  with  a  bit  of  lace  or 
mosquito  net.    Let  it  ferment  about  four  weeks — rack  off  when 
it  is  quite  still,  and  bottle. 

Roman  Punch. 
3  coffee  cups  of  lemonade — (strong  and  sweet). 
I  glass  champagne. 

1  "  rum. 

2  oranges— ^ju ice  only. 

2  eggs — whites  only — well  whipped. 
^  lb.  powdered  sugar,  beaten  into  the  stiffened  whites. 
You  must  ice  abundantly — or,  if  you  prefer,  freeze. 

Sherry  Cobbler. 
Several  slices  of  pineapple,  cut  in  quarters. 
A  lemon,  sliced  thin. 
An  orange, 

cup  of  powdered  sugar. 
I  tumbler  of  sherry  wine. 
Ice-water. 
Pounded  ice. 

Take  a  wide-mouthed  quart-pitcher  and  lay  the  sliced  fruit 


296 


COMMON  SENSE. 


in  order  in  the  bottom,  sprinkling  sugar  and  pounded  ice  be- 
tween the  layers.  Cover  with  sugar  and  ice,  and  let  all  stand 
together  five  minutes.  Add  then  two  tumblers  of  water  and 
all  the  sugar,  and  stir  well  to  dissolve  this.  Fill  the  pitcher 
nearly  full  of  pounded  ice,  pour  in  the  wine,  and  stir  up  from 
the  bottom  until  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  mixed.  In 
pouring  it  out  put  a  sHce  of  each  kind  of  fruit  in  each  goblet 
before  adding  the  liquid. 

It  is  best  sucked  through  a  straw  or  glass  tube. 

Nectar.  | 

Make  as  above,  substituting  a  little  rose-water  for  the  pine- 
apple, and  squeezing  out  the  juice  of  the  orange  and  lemon, 
instead  of  putting  in  the  sHces.    Sprinkle  nutmeg  on  the  top. 

This  forms  a  delicious  and  refre;^hing  drink  for  invalids. 

Egg  Nogg.  J 

6  eggs— whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very  stiff. 
I  quart  rich  milk. 
Yo,  cup  of  sugar. 
Yo.  pint  best  brandy. 
Flavor  with  nutmeg. 

Stir  the  yolks  into  the  milk  with  the  sugar,  which  should 
first  be  beaten  with  the  yolks.  Next  comes  the  brandy.  Lastly 
whip  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs. 


THE  SICK  ROOM. 

Beef  Tea.  % 
I  lb.  lean  beef,  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Put  into  a  jar  without  a  drop  of  water  ;  cover  tightly,  and 
set  in  a  pot  of  cold  water.    Heat  gradually  to  a  boil,  and  con- 
tinue this  steadily  for  three  or  four  hours,  until  the  meat  is  like 
white  rags,  and  the  jui  e  all  drawn  out.    Season  with  salt  to 


THE  SICK  ROOM.  '  297 

J? 

taste,  and  when  cold,  skim.  The  patient  will  ofte,n  prefer  this 
ice-cold  to  hot.  Serve  with  Albert  biscuit  or  thin  "  wafers," 
unleavened,  or  made  by  a  receipt  under  the  head  of  Bread. 

Mutton  Broth.  J 

I  lb.  lean  mutton  or  lamb,  cut  small. 
I  quart  water — cold. 

1  tablespoonful  rice,  or  barley^  soaked  in  a  very  little  warm 

water. 
4  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

Salt  and  pepper,  with  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Boil  the  meat,  unsalted,  in  the  water,  keeping  it  closely 
covered,  until  it  falls  to  pieces.  Strain  it  out,  add  the  soaked 
barley  or  rice  ;  simmer  half  an  hour,  stirring  often  ;  stir  in  the 
seasoning  and  the  milk,  and  simmer  five  minutes  after  it  heats 
up  well,  taking  care  it  does  not  burn. 

Serve  hot,  with  cream  crackers. 

Chicken  Broth  J 

Is  excellent  made  in  the  same  manner  as  mutton,  cracking  the 
bones  well  before  you  put  in  the  fowl. 

Veal  and  Sago  Broth. 

2  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal,  cracked  all  to  pieces. 

2  quarts  of  cold  water. 

3  tablespoonfuls  best  pearl  sago,  soaked  in  a  cup  of  cold 

water. 

I  cup  cream,  heated  to  boiling. 
Yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten  light. 

Boil  the  veal  and  water  in  a  covered  saucepan  very  slowly 
until  reduced  to  one  quart  of  liquid;  strain,  season  with  salt, 
and  stir  in  the  soaked  sago  (having  previously  warmed  it  by 
setting  for  half  an  hour  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and 
stirred  from  time  to  time).    Simmer  halt  an  hour,  taking  care 


29S 


CO:\rMON  SENSE. 


it  docs  noc  burn  ;  beat  in  the  cream  and  eggs  ;  give  one  good 
boil  up,  and  turn  out. 

This  is  excellent  for  consumptives. 

Beef  and  Sago  Broth. 

2  lbs.  of  beef— cut  up  small. 
2  quarts  of  water. 

I  cup  of  sago,  soaked  soft  in  a  little  lukewarm  water. 
Yolks  of  three  eggs. 
Salt  to  taste. 

Stew  the  beef  until  it  falls  to  pieces ;  strain  it  out,  salt  the 
liquid  and  stir  in  the  sago.  Simmer  gently  one  hour,  stirring 
often.    Add  the  beaten  yolks ;  boil  up  well  and  serve. 

This  is  a  strengthening  and  nice  soup.    Eat  with  dry  toast. 

Arrowroot  Jelly  fp/ai/i J.  | 

1  cup  hoiliiig  water. 

2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  best  Bermuda  arrowroot. 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar. 

Wet  the  arrowroot  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  rub  smooth. 
Then  stir  into  the  hot,  which  should  be  on  the  fire  and  actually 
boiling  at  the  time,  with  the  sugar  already  melted  in  it.  Stir 
until  clear,  boiling  steadily  all  the  while,  and  add  the  lemon. 
Wet  a  cup  in  cold  water,  and  pour  in  the  jelly  to  form.  Eat 
cold  with  sugar  and  cream  flavored  with  rosewater. 

An  invaluable  preparation  in  cases  where  wine  is  forbidden. 

Arrowroot  Wine  Jelly.  | 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  arrowroot. 
2       "  "  white  sugar. 

I  tablesponful  brandy,  ot  3  tablespoonfuls  of  wine. 
An  excellent  corrective  to  weak  bowels. 


THE  SICK  ROOM. 


299 


Arrowroot  Blanc-mange.  J 

1  cup  boiling  milk. 

2  dessert' spoonfuls  best  a^■o^Y^oot,  rubbed  smooth  in  cold 

water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 
Vanilla  or  other  essence. 

Boil  until  it  thickens  well,  stirring  all  the  while.  Eat  cold 
with  cream,  flavored  with  rosewater,  and  sweetened  to  taste. 

Indian  Meal  Gruel.  % 

2  quarts  of  boiling  water. 

I  cup  of  Indian  meal,  and 

I  tablespoonful  flour,  wet  up  with  cold  water. 

Salt  to  taste — and,  if  you  like,  sugar  and  nutmeg. 
Wet  the  meal  and  flour  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  stir  into 
the  water  while  it  is  actually  boiling.  Boil  slowly  half  an 
hour,  stirring  up  well  frcm  the  bottom.  Season  ^Yith  salt  to 
taste.  Some  sweeten  it,  but  1  like  it  better  with  a  little  pepper 
added  to  the  salt. 

If  a  cathartic  is  desired,  emit  the  wheat  flour  altogether. 

Oatmeal  Gruel 
Is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Milk  and  Rice  Gruel. 

1  quart  boiling  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  (heaping)  of  ground  rice,  wet  with  cold 

milk. 

I  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Stir  in  the  rice-paste  and  boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
while.  Season  with  sugar  and  nutmeg,  and  eat  warm  with 
cream. 

You  may  use  Indian  meal  instead  of  rice-flour,  which  is  an 
astringent.    In  this  case,  boil  half  an  hour. 


soo 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Tapioca  Jelly.    ( Ve?y  good.)  | 
I  cup  of  tapioca. 
3  cups  of  cold  water. 

Juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  pinch  of  the  grated  peel. 
Sweeten  to  taste. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  water  four  hours.  Set  within  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water  ;  pour  more  luke-warm  water  over 
the  tapioca  if  it  has  absorbed  too  much  of  the  liquid,  and 
heat,  stirring  frequently.  If  too  thick  after  it  begins  to  clear, 
put  in  a  very  little  boiling  water.  When  quite  clear,  put  in 
the  sugar  and  lemon.  Pour  into  moulds.  Eat  cold,  with 
cream  flavored  with  rosewater  and  sweetened. 

Tapioca  Blanc-mange.  | 

I  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  in  2  cups  cold  water. 
3  cups  boiling  milk. 
3  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 
Rosewater  or  vanilla. 
Soak  the  tapioca  four  hours,  and  stir,  with  the  water  in 
which  it  was  soaked,  into  the  boiling  milk.    Sweeten  and  boil 
slowly,  stirring  all  the  while,  fifteen  minutes.    Take  off,  flavor 
and  pour  into  moulds. 

Eat  cold  with  cream.    Wash  tapioca  well  before  soaking. 

Arrowroot  Custard.  {Nice.) 

2  cups  of  boiling  milk. 

3  heaping  teaspoonfuls  arrowroot,  wet  up  with  a  little  cold 

milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar,  beaten  with  the  egg. 
I  egg,  very  well  beaten. 

Mix  the  arrowroot-paste  with  the  boiling  milk ;  stir  three 
minutes ;  take  from  the  fire  and  whip  in  the  egg  and  sugar. 
Boil  two  minutes  longer,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  rosewater,  and 
pour  into  moulds. 


THE  SICK  ROOM. 


301 


Sago  Milk,  | 

3  tablespoonfuls  sago,  soaked  in  a  large  cup  cold  water  one 
hour. 

3  cups  boiling  milk. 

Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste. 

Simmer  slowly  half  an  hour.    Eat  warm. 

Tapioca  Milk 
Is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Boiled  Rice.  J 
^  cup  whole  rice,  boiled  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  it. 

1  "   of  milk. 
A  little  salt. 

One  egg,  beaten  light. 

When  the  rice  is  nearly  done,  turn  ofif  the  water,  add  the 
milk  and  simmer — taking  care  it  does  not  scorch — until  the 
jmilk  boils  up  well.    Salt,  and  beat  in  the  egg. 

Eat  warm  with  cream,  sugar,  and  nutmeg. 

Chicken  Jelly.    (  Very  nourishing.)  % 

!  Half  a  raw  chicken,  pounded  with  a  mallet,  bones  and  meat 
I  together. 

I  Plenty  of  cold  water  to  cover  it  well — about  a  quart. 
I  Heat  slowly  in  a  covered  vessel,  and  let  it  simmer  until  the 
I  meat  is  in  white  rags  and  the  liquid  reduced  one  half.  Strain 
land  press,  first  through  a  cullender,  then  through  a  coarse 
cloth.  Salt  to  taste,  and  pepper,  if  you  think  best ;  return  to 
[the  fire,  and  simmer  five  minutes  longer.  Skim  when  cool. 
Give  to  the  patient  cold — ^just  from  the  ice — with  unleavened 
wafers.  Keep  on  the  ice.  You  can  make  into  sandwiches  by 
putting  the  jelly  between  thin  slices  of  bread  spread  lightly 
with  butter. 

Calves'  Feet  Broth, 

2  calves'  feet. 


302 


COMirOX  SENSE. 


2  quarts  cold  water. 

I  egg,  beaten  up  with  two  tablcspoonfuls  milk  for  each  cup- 
ful of  broth. 
Pepper  and  salt. 

Boil  the  feet  to  shreds ;  strain  the  liquor  through  a  double 
muslin  bag  ;  season  to  taste,  and  set  by  for  use  as  you  need  it. 
Warm  by  the  small  quantity,  allowing  to  each  cupful  a  beaten 
egg  and  two  tablcspoonfuls  of  milk.  Give  a  good  boil  up  to 
cook  these,  and  serve  with  thin,  crisp  toast.  If  the  patient  can 
take  it,  a  dash  of  lemon-juice  improves  the  broth. 

Toast  Water.  J 

Slices  of  toast,  nicely  browned,  without  a  symptom  of  burning. 
Enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them. 

Cover  closely,  and  let  them  stand  until  cold.  Strain  the 
water,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  put  in  a  piece  of  ice  in  each 
glassful.  If  the  physician  thinks  it  safe,  add  a  little  lemon 
juice. 

Jelly  Water.  | 

I  large  teaspoonful  currant  or  cranberry  jelly. 
I  goblet  ice-water. 

Beat  up  well  for  a  fever-patient. 

Wild  cherry  or  blackberry  jelly  is  excellent,  prepared  in  like 
manner  for  those  suffering  with  summer  complaint. 

Flax-seed  Lemonade.  | 

4  tablespoonfuls  flax-seed  (whole). 

I  quart  boiling  water  poured  upon  the  flax-seed. 

Juice  of  two  lemons,  leaving  out  the  peel. 

Sweeten  to  taste. 
Steep  three  hours  in  a  covered  pitcher.    If  too  thick,  put 
in  cold  water  with  the  lemon-juice  and  sugar.  Ice  for  drinking. 
It  is  admirable  for  colds. 


THE  SICK  EOOM. 


SOS 


Slippery-elm  Bark  Tea. 
Break  the  bark  into  bits,  pour  boiling  water  over  it,  cover 
and  let  it  infuse  until  cold.    Sweeten,  ice,  and  take  for  sum- 
mer disorders,  or  add  lemon-juice  and  drink  for  a  bad  cold. 

Milk  Punch.  J 

1  tumbler  milk,  well  sweetened. 

2  tablespoonfuls  best  brand3^  well  stirred  in. 

I  have  known  very  sick  patients  to  be  kept  alive  for  days 
at  a  time  by  this  mixture,  and  nothing  else,  until  Nature 
could  rally  her  forces.    Give  very  cold  with  ice. 

Egg  and  Milk  Punch  I 

Is  made  by  the  preceding  receipt,  with  an  egg  beaten  very 
light  with  the  sugar,  and  stirred  in  before  the  brandy  is  added. 

Dry  Toast. 

Pare  off  the  crust  from  stale  light  bread ;  slice  half  an  inch 
thick  and  toast  quickly.    Graham  bread  is  very  nice  toasted. 
Butter  lightly  if  the  patient  can  eat  butter. 

Milk  Toast  % 

Toast  as  just  directed ;  dip  each  slice,  as  it  comes  from  the 
toaster,  in  boiling  water;  butter,  salt  lightly,  and  lay  in  a 
deep  covered  dish.  Have  ready  in  a  saucepan  enough  boiling 
milk  to  cover  all  well.  When  your  slices  are  packed  salt  this 
very  slightly;  melt  in  it  a  bit  of  butter  and  pour  over  them. 
Cover  closely  and  let  it  stand  five  minutes  before  using  it.  It 
is  excellent  when  made  of  Graham  bread. 

This  is  a  good  dish  for  a  family  tea  as  well  as  for  invalids. 

Herb  Teas 

Are  made  by  infusing  the  dried  or  green  leaves  and  stalks  in 
boiling  water,  and  letting  them  stand  until  cold.  Sweeten  to 
taste. 


'1 


304 


COMMON  SENSE. 


Sage  tea,  sweetened  with  honey,  is  good  for  a  sore  throat, 
used  as  a  gargle,  with  a  small  bit  of  alum  dissolved  in  it. 

Catnup  tea  is  the  best  panacea  for  infant  ills,  in  the  way  of 
cold  and  colic,  icnown  to  nurses. 

Pennryoyal  tea  will  often  avert  the  unpleasant  consequences 
of  a  sudden  check  of  perspiration,  or  the  evils  induced  by 
ladies'  thin  shoes. 

Chamomile  and  gentian  teas  are  excellent  tonics  taken  either 
cold  or  hot. 

The  tea  made  from  blackberry  root  is  said  to  be  good  for 
summer  disorders.  That  from  green  strawberry  leaves  is  an 
admirable  and  soothing  wash  for  a  cankered  mouth. 

Tea  of  parsley-root  scraped  and  steeped  in  boiling  water, 
taken  warm,  will  often  cure  strangury  and  kindred  affections, 
as  will  that  made  from  dried  pumpkin-seed. 

Tansy  and  rue  teas  are  useful  in  cases  of  colic,  as  are  fennel 
seeds  steeped  in  brandy. 

A  tea  of  damask-rose  leaves,  dry  or  fresh,  will  usually  sub- 
due any  simple  case  of  summer  complaint  in  infants. 

Mint  tea,  made  from  the  green  leaves,  crushed  in  cold  or 
hot  water  and  sweetened,  is  palatable  and  healing  to  the 
stomach  and  bowels. 

Mint  Julep.  X 

Some  sprigs  of  green  mint,  slightly  bruised  in  a  tumbler  with 
a  teaspoon.  Put  in  a  generous  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar; 
add  gradually,  stirring  and  rubbing  lightly,  enough  water  to  fill 
the  glass  three-quarters  of  the  way  to  the  top.  Fill  up  with 
pounded  ice  ;  stir  hard ;  pour  into  a  large  glass  that  you  may 
shake  up  well,  and  put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  fine  brandy.  • 

This  is  called  a  "  hail-storm  julep." 


THE  NURSERY. 


305 


THE  NURSERY. 
Farina.  I 

I  cup  boiling  \Y:\.*itv. 
I  cup  fresh  milk. 

1  large  tablespoonful  Hecker's  Farina,  wet  up  with  cold 

water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 
A  pinch  of  salt. 

Stir  the  farina  into  the  boiling  water  {slightly  salted)  in  the 
farina  kettle  {i.e.,  one  boiler  set  within  another,  the  latter  filled 
with  hot  water).  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly  until 
it  is  well  thickened.  Then  add  the  milk,  stirring  it  in  gradu- 
ally, and  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Sweeten  and  give  to  the 
child  so  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough. 

You  may  make  enough  in  the  morning  to  last  all  day; 
warming  it  up  with  a  little  hot  milk  as  you  want  it.  Keep  in 
a  cold  place.  Some  of  the  finest  children  I  have  ever  seen 
were  reared  upon  this  diet.  Do  not  get  it  too  sweet,  and 
cook  it  well.    Be  sure  the  farina  is  sweet  and  dry. 

Barley. 

It  sometimes  happens  that  milk  disagrees  with  a  delicate 
infant  so  seriously  that  it  is  necessary  to  substitute  some  other 
article  of  diet  for  a  few  days.    I  have  known  barley  water  to 
be  used,  in  such  cases,  with  great  success. 
2  cups  boiling  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  pearl  barley — picked  over  and  washed. 
A  pinch  of  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar — not  heaping. 
Soak  the  barley  half  an  hour  in  a  very  little  lukewarm 
water,  and  stir,  without  draining,  into  the  boiling  water,  salted 
very  slightly.    Simmer  one  hour,  stirring  often,  and  strain 
before  sweetening. 
T 


306 


COmON  SENSE. 


Arrowroot.  J 

I  cup  of  boiling  water. 

1  cup  fresh  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  best  Bermuda  arrowroot,  wet  with  cold  water. 

1  small  pinch  of  salt. 

2  even  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  dissolved  in  the  milk. 
Stir  the  arrowroot  paste  into  the  salted  boiling  water ;  stir 

and  boil  five  minutes,  or  until  it  is  clear;  add  the  sweetened 
milk,  and  boil  ten  minutes,  slowly,  still  stirring. 

If  the  child  has  fever,  or  cannot  digest  milk,  substitute  hot 
v/ater  for  it.  It  is,  however,  a  dangerous  experiment  to  forbid 
milk  altogether  for  an  infant.  I  should  rather  diminish  the  quan- 
tity, putting  in,  say,  one-third  or  one-fourth  as  much  as  the 
receipt  names,  and  filling  up  with  boiling  water. 

Rice  Jelly.  % 

^  cup  whole  rice,  well  washed  and  soaked  two  hours  in  a 
little  warm  water ;  then  added,  with  the  water,  to  that 
in  the  kettle. 

3  pints  cold  water. 

I  small  pinch  of  salt,  put  into  the  water. 
Sweeten  to  taste  with  loaf  sugar. 

Simmer  the  rice  half  an  hour;  then  boil  until  it  is  a  smooth 
paste,  and  the  water  is  reduced  one-half  Strain  through 
double  tarlatan,  sweeten  and  give  to  the  child. 

This  is  an  admirable  preparation  for  an  infant  suffering  with 
weakness  of  the  bowels.  If  there  is  no  fever,  you  may  put 
one-third  part  milk,  boiled  with  the  rice.  Give  a  few  spoon- 
fuls every  hour  or  half  hour. 

Milk  and  Bread.  | 
Yq,  cup  boiled  milk. 
2  tablespoonfuls  stale  Graham  bread. 
A  very  little  sugar. 
Crumble  the  bread  into  the  boiled  milk,  sweeten,  and  when 
cool  enough,  feed  to  the  child  with  a  spoon. 


SUNDRIES. 


307 


Hominy  and  Milk.  I 
}^  cup  sma/l  hominy. 
I  scant  quart  of  cold  water. 
Pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  one  hour,  stirring  often.  While  hot,  mix  some  soft 
with  new  milk,  sweeten  to  taste  and  feed  to  baby  with  a  spoon. 

This  is  also  relaxing  to  the  bowels,  and  should  not  be  given 
if  the  child  is  disposed  to  summer  complaint. 

Milk  Porridge. 
I  tablespoonful  Indian  meal }  wet   to   taste   with  cold 

1  white  flour  J  water. 

2  cups  boiling  water. 
2    "  milk. 

A  go0d  pinch  of  salt. 
Boil  the  paste  in  the  hot  water  twenty  minutes ;  add  the 
milk  and  cook  ten  minutes  more,  stirring  often. 
Eat  with  sugar  and  milk,  stirred  in  while  hot. 


SUNDRIES. 


To  Clean  Carpets. 
Sprinkle  the  carpet  with  tea  leaves ;  sweep  well ;  then  use 
soap  and  soft,  warm  water  for  the  grease  and  dirt  spots.  This 
freshens  up  old  carpets  marvellously.    Rub  the  wet  spots  dry 
with  a  clean  cloth. 

To  Clean  Paint. 
Scour  with  a  flat  brush,  less  harsh  than  that  used  for  floors, 
using  warm  soft  suds ;  before  it  dries  wash  off  with  old  flannel 
dipped  in  clean  cold  water,  and  wipe  dry  with  a  linen  towel  or 
cloth.  Go  through  the  whole  process  quickly,  that  the  water 
may  not  dry  upon  and  streak  the  paint. 


308 


COMMON  SENSE. 


To  Keep  Woolens. 

Beat  out  all  the  dust,  and  sun  for  a  day ;  shake  very  hard  ' 
fold  neatly  and  pin— or,  what  is  better,  sew  up— closely  in 
muslin  or  linen  cloths,  putting  a  small  lump  of  gum-camphor 
in  the  centre  of  each  bundle.  Wrap  newspapers  about  all, 
pinning  so  ..s  to  exclude  dust  and  insects. 

These  are  really  all  the  precautions  necessary  for  the  safety 
even  of  furs,  if  they  are  strictly  obeyed.  But  you  may  set 
moths  at  defiance  if  you  can,  in  addition  to  these,  secure,  as  a 
packing-case,  a  whiskey  or  alcohol  barrel  but  lately  emptied, 
and  still  strongly  scented  by  the  liquor.  Have  a  close  head, 
and  fit  it  in  neatly.  Set  away  in  the  garret,  and  think  no  more 
of  your  treasures  until  next  winter. 

To  Clean  a  Cloth  Coat. 
Rub  soap  upon  the  wristbands  and  collar ;  dip  them  in  boil- 
ing-hot suds— and  scrub  with  a  stiff  clean  brush.  Treat  the 
grease  and  dirt  spots  in  the  same  way.  Change  the  suds  for 
clean  and  hot  as  it  gets  dirty.  Wet  and  brush  the  whole  coat, 
the  right  way  of  the  cloth,  with  fresh  suds,  when  you  have 
scoured  out  the  spots,  adding  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
alcohol  to  the  water.  Stretch  the  sleeves,  pocket-holes,  wrist- 
bands, and  collar  into  shape,  folding  the  sleeves  as  if  they  had 
been  ironed,  also  the  collar.  Lay  upon  a  clean  cloth,  spread 
upon  the  table  or  floor,  and  let  it  get  perfectly  dry  in  the  shade, 
turning  over  three  or  four  times  without  disturbing  the  folds. 


THE  END. 


INDEX. 


Soups 


PAGE 

•  5 


Vegetable  Soups   6 


Pea  and  Tomato  .... 

Bean  (dried)  

Bean  and  com  

Asparagus  (green)  . . 
Tomato  (winter  soup) 
"       (summer  ), 

Turnip  

Potato  

Graham  soup  

Ochra  or  Gumbo  


Cat-fish  soup  

Eel  soup   20 

Lobster  soup   20 

Green  turtle  soup   21 


Fish. 


7  I  Boiled  codfish  (fresh).. 


8  i  Rock  fish 


22 


22 
23 


I  Boiled  codfish  (salt)   23 

i  Codfish  balls   23 

24 

25 
25 


Meat  Soups   10 


Beef  soup,  ct  la  Julienne . . 
Veal  soup,  with  macaroni,. 
Mutton  or  lamb  broth .... 

Vermicelli  soup  

Mock  turtle  or  calf's-head 

soup  

Giblet  soup  

Chicken  soup  

Venison  soup  

Hare  or  rabbit  soup  

•Ox-tail  soup  


10 
12 
13 
13 

14 
15 
16 
16 
17 
17 


J^/slt  Soups   1 8 


Boiled  mackerel  (fresh). 

(salt). 

Boiled  Halibut  

Baked  Halibut   25 

Halibut  steak   26 

Boiled  salmon  (fresh). . .  26 

Baked      "   27 

Salmon  steaks   28 

Pickled  salmon  (fresh)...  28 

(salt)....  29 

Smoked     "       (broiled).  30 

Boiled  shad  (fresh)   30 


Broiled 


Oyster  soup 
Clain  soup  . 


18 
iS 


(salt), 
(fresh) 
(salt).. 

Baked     «  ...... 

Boiled  sea  bass    ^2 

Fried      "    32 

Sturfreon  steak.  


31 
31 
31 
31 


Baked  sturgeon   32 

Mayonnaise  (fresh)   33 

Baked  salmon  trout   33 


810 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Boiled  salmon  trout   34 

Fried  trout   34 

Fried  Pickerel   35 

Cream     "    35 

Fried  perch  and  other  pan- 

.fish  ;   35 

Fried  catfish   35 

Stewed  eels   36 

Fried    36 

Chowder.-   36 

Shell  Fish   37 

To  boil  a  lobster   37 

Lobster  croquettes   38 

Devilled  crab   38 

Crab  salad   38 

Stewed  oysters   38 

Fried    39 

Oyster  i'ritters   39 

Scalloped  oysters   40 

Broiled         "    40 

Cream  oysters  on  the  half 

shell   40 

Oyster  omelet   41 

"     pie   42 

Pickled  oysters   42 

Roast        "    43 

Raw    44 

Steamed    "    44 

Oyster  pates   45 

Mixture   45 

Scallops   46 

Clam  fritters   46 

chowder   46 

Poultry   47 

Roastturkey   48 

Boiled    "    49 

Turkey  scallop   50 


PAGE 

Ragout  of  turkey   51 

Roast  chickens   51 

Boiled  chickens..   52 

Fricassee  chicken   52 

Broiled       "    53 

Fried          "    53 

Chicken  pot  pie   54 

Baked  chicken  pie   54 

Chicken  and  ham   55 

Roast  ducks   55 

To  use  up  cold  duck   55 

Stewed  duck   56 

Roast  goose   56 

Goose  pie   57 

Roast  pigeons   57 

Stewed     "    58 

Broiled     "    or  squabs. . .  58 

Pigeon  pie   58 

Meats   59 

Roast  beef   59 

Roast  beef,  with  Yorkshire 

pudding   59 

Beef  steak   60 

"       "    and  onions.  ...  61 

Beef,  a  la  mode   62 

Breakfast  stew  of  beef  .. . .  63 

Another  breakfast  dish  . .  64 

Beef  hash   64 

Beef-steak  pie   65 

Crust  for  meat  pies   65 

Beef's  heart   65 

To  corn  beef   66 

Boiled  corned  beef   66 

Beef  tongue   66 

Dried  beef.   67 

Mutton  and  Lamb. .  .  67 

Roast  mutton. .   67 


INDEX. 


311 


PAGE 

Boiled  mutton   68 

Mutton  stew   68 

Mutton  chops  ,  .  .  . .  69 

"     cutlets   69 


Veal 


69 


Roast  veal   7° 

Breast   7° 

Fillet   71 

Shoulder   71 

Veal  cutlets   71 

"    chops   71 

steak   71 

pies   72 

Stewed  fillet  of  veal   72 

"      knuckle  of  veal. .  .  73 

Veal  scallop   73 

Veal  pates   74 

Stewed  calf's  head    74 

Calf's  head  (scalloped).. .  .  75 
Sweet  breads  (fried)   75 

"       "       (broiled)....  75 

«       "       (stewed)...  75 

Minced  veal   76 

Calf's  liver  (roasted)   77 

"  (stewed)   77 


Pork. 


77 


Roast  leg  of  pork   79 

Loin  of  Pork   80 

Roast  spare  rib   80 

"     chine   80 


pig 


81 


Pork  steaks   83 

"   chops   83 

Stewed  pork   83 

Pig's  head  (roasted)   84 

Head-cheese  (or  scure)  . .  84 

Pork  pot-pie   85 


PAGE 

Sausage    86 

Bologna  Sausage   87 

Lard   87 

Brawn   89 

To  pickle  pork   89 

Boiled  ham   89 

Glaced  ham   90 

Steamed  ham   90 

Baked  ham   90 

Roast  ham   91 

Broiled  ham,  .   91 

Barbecued  ham    92 

Fried  ham    92 

Ham  Sandwiches   92 

"    and  Chicken  Sand- 
wiches  93 

Ham  and  chicken  pie ... .  93 

and  eggs   93 

Pork  and  beans   94 

"   and  peas  pudding. . .  94 

Game   94 

Venison   94 

Haunch  of  venison   94 

Neck   95 

Shoulder   95 

To  stew  a  shoulder   96 

Venison  steaks   96 

"     cutlets   96 

Hashed  venison   97 

Venison  pasty   98 

Crust  of  pasty   99 

Venison  Ham  100 

Rabbits  or  Hares ....  100 

Roast  rabbit  100 

Rabbits  stewed  with  onions.  1 00 
Fricasseed  rabbit  (white)... loi 


a- 


312 


IXDEX. 


Ragout  of  squirrels  103 

Broiled  squirrels  103 

Pheasants,  partridges,  quails, 
grouse,  etc  103 

Roast  103 

Broiled  104 

Grouse  roasted  with  bacon.  104 
Quails  roasted  with  ham .  .  104 

Salmi  of  game  104 

Game  pie  (verj^  fine)  ....  105 

Quail  pie  106 

Wild  pigeons  (stewed).. .  .  106 

Wild  pigeon  pie  106 

Wild  ducks  107 

Roast  duck  (wild)  107 

Wild  duck  (stewed)  107 

Wild  turkey  108 

Suiall  birds  109 

Roast  snipe  or  plovers  109 

Woodcock  1 10 

Roast  and  broiled  no 

Salmi  of  woodcockorsnipe.  no 


PAGE  I  PAGE 

Larded  rabbit   102  1  White  sauce  for  fish  112 

Fried  rabbit  102  j  Oyster  sauce  112 

Rabbit  pie  102  ;  Anchovy  sauce   113 

\  Sauce  for  lobsters  113 

Squirrels   102  !  Bread  sauce  114 

White  celeiy  sauce  114 

Onion  sauce  114 

Maitre  d'Hotel  sauce  115 

Mint  sauce  for  roast  larnb..  1 15 

Cauliflower  sauce   116 

Asparagus  sauce  116 

Apple  sauce   .  117 

Peach  sauce  117 

Cranberry  sauce  117 

To  brown  flour  117 


Catsups  a7id  fiavoi'ed  vi?ie- 
gars  118 

Made  mustard  118 


Horse  radish 


119 


Walnut  catsup  119 

Mushroom  catsup  119 

Tomato  catsup  120 

Lemon  catsup  120 

Ever  ready  catsup  121 

Mock  capers  122 

Elderberry  catsup  122 

Pepper  vinegar   122 


Salads 


123 


j  Lobster  salad  124 

Sauces  mi  Chicken  salad  125 

'  Lettuce  salad   126 

Water  cresses   127 


Sauces  for  meats  and fish  ..in 

Melted  or  drawn  butter. . .  in 

Egg  sauce  in 

Sauce  for  boiled  or  baked 
fish  112 


Cabbnge  salad  or  cold  slaw.  127 

'J'omaio  salad  127 

I  Celery  salad  128 

i  Cheese  salad  or  mock  crab.  128 


INDEX. 


313 


PACE] 

Vegetables  129 

Potatoes  129 

Mashed  potatoes  130 

I'o  boil  new  potatoes  130 

To  stew  old  jiotaloes,  ...  130 
Slewed  potatoes  for  break. 

fast  131 

Baked  potatoes  .-131 

Potato  buff  131 

Potatoes  warmed  over  131 

Potato  croquettes  132 

Fried  potatoes  132 

Potatoes  a  la  crevie  132 

Stuffed  potatoes  132 

Brown       "   133 

Broiled      "   133 

Potato  cakes   134 

Roast  sweet  potatoes  134 

Fried  "   134 

Cabbage  135 

Boiled  cabbage  135 

Bacon  and  cabbage  135 

Ladies'  cabbage  135 

Sauerkraut  136 

Cauliflower,  d^c  137 

Boiled  cauliflower  137 

Stewed       "   137 

Scalloped   137 

Mashed  turnips  138 

Young  turnips  boiled  whole.  138 

Boiled  spinach  138 

Spinach  a  la  crenie  139 

Green  peas  139 

Pea  fritters  or  cakes....  140 

Asparagus  (wild)  140 

"       and  eggs  140 


PAGE 

Boiled  onions  141 

Stewed     "   141 

Baked   142 

Stewed  tomatoes  142 

Stuffed  baked  tomatoes  . .  142 

Scalloped  tomatoes  143 

Scallop  of  tomatoes  and 

green  corn  143 

Broiled  tomatoes  143 

Baked  tomatoes  (plain). .  .  144 

Raw  tomatoes  144 

Raw  cucumbers  144 

Fried       "   145 

Boiled  green  corn  145 

Corn  and  tomatoes  145 

Succotash  145 

Green  corn  pudding  146 

"       "   frittersorcakes.  146 

Stewed  green  corn  146 

Roasted       "   147 

Salsify  or  oyster  plant. .  .  .  147 

Fried  egg  plant  147 

Boiled  carrots  147 

Stewed   148 

Mashed   148 

French,  or  string,  or  snap 

beans  148 

Lima  and  butter  beans  149 

Kidney  and  other  small 

beans  149 

Dried  beans .  .  . '.  149 

Boiled  beets  149 

Stewed   "  150 

Boiled  parsnips  150 

Fried  parsnips  150 

Parsnip  fritters  150 

Mashed  parsnips  151 

Buttered      "   151 

Artichokes  151 

Summer  squash   151 

Winter  squash  152 


di4 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Stewed   pumpkins  ik2 

Baked  -   152 

Poke-stalks   1^2 

Mushrooms  153 

Stewed  mushrooms  154 

Baked         "   ic^ 

Broiled        "   154 

Celery  

Radishes  i^^ 

Boiled  hominy  1^6 

Fried   156 

Hominy  croquettes  157 

Baked  hominy  i 

Rice  croquettes  157 

Boiled  rice  158 

Baked  macaroni  158 

Macaroni  d  la  crhne .  ...  159 


159 


Boiled  eggs  t6o 

Dropped  or  poached  eggs.  160 
Poached  eggs  d  la  creme .  .161 

Ham  and  eggs  161 

Fried  eggs  161 

Fricasseed  eggs  162 

Breaded  eggs  162 

Scrambled  eggs  162 

Scalloped  eggs  162 

Poached  eggs  with  sauce...  163 

Eggs  upon  toast  163 

Omelette  (plain)  163 

Cauliflower  omelette  ....  164 

Asparagus  omelette  164 

Egg-balls  for  soup  164 

Omelette  aux fines  herhes .  .  164 
Cheese  omelette  165 

Sweet  07iielettes  165 

Omelette  soufflee  (baked).  165 


PAGE 

Apple  omelette  166 

Omelette  with  jelly  166 

Milk,  butter,  cheese,  etc.  ..  .16^ 

Bread  170 

Yeast  (hop)  170 

"     (potato)  171 

Bread  sponge  (potato) ..  171 
"  (plam)....i72 

Family  bread  (white)  172 

"     (brown)..  ..174 

Milk  bread  176 

French  rolls  176 

Sally  Lunn  176 

Mrs.  E.'s  (soda)  177 

Graham  biscuit  178 

Minute   178 

Graham  wheatlets  178 

Sweet  rusk  179 

Butter  crackers  179 

Wafers  180 

Crumpets  (plain)  180 

Graham  muffins  180 

Queen       "   181 

Mother's    "   181 

Charlotte   "   181 

Nonpareil  corn  bread  ....  182 

Corn-meal  muffins  182 

Steamed  corn-bread  182 

Johnny-cake  183 

Risen  corn-bread  183 

Corn-meal  pone  183 

Ash-cake  184 

Buckwheat  cakes  184 

Flannel  cakes  185 

Corn-meal  flapjacks  185 

Graham  cakes   185 

Auntie's   cakes   ( without 
eggs)  186 


INDEX.  31 5 


PAGE  j 

Grandpa's  favorite  i86  I 

Cream  cakes  i86  ! 

Velvet      "   i86 

Mother's  waffles  187 

Rice  waffles  187 

Quick    "   187 

Shortcake^  etc  187 

Strawberry  shortcake  188 

Scotch  short-bread  189 

Easter  buns  (hot  cross).  .  .  189 

Cakes,  &c  190 

Icing  190 

AUnond  icing  191 

Martha's  cake  (for  jell}').  .191 

Mrs.  M.'s  cup  cake  192 

Cream  cake  192 

Cocoanut  cake  193 

Loaf  cocoanut  cake  193 

One,  two,  three,  four " 

oocoanut  cake  193 

Cocoanut  cakes  (small).. .  .194 

Lee  cake  194 

French  cake  195 

Lemon  cake  195 

Lady  cake  195 

Sister  Mag's  cake  196 

Dover  196 

Chocolate  196 

Caramel  197 

Marble  cake  197 

Marbled  cake  198 

Chocolate  icing  (simple)  .199 
Caramels  (chocolate)  .  .  .  •  199 

Ellie's  cake  199 

Mrs.  M.'s  sponge  cake.. .  .  200 

Pound  cake  200 

Washington  cake  201 


PAGE 

Lincoln  cake  201 

Black  or  wedding  cake.. .  .  202 

Fruit  cake  (plainer)  202 

Gold  cake  203 

Silver  cake  203 

Almond  macaroons  203 

Corn-starch  cake  204 

White  cake   204 

Newyear's  cakes  (very  nice).  205 

Mother's  cookies  205 

Molasses  cookies  (good) .  .  205 

Ginger  snaps  206 

Aunt  Margaret's  jumbles .  .  206 

Lemon  jumbles  206 

Currant  cakes  207 

Drop  sponge  cake  207 

Lady's  fingers   207 

Aunt  Margaret's  crullers .  .  207 

Mother's  crullers  208 

Quick  doughnuts  208 

Soft  gingerbread  208 

Plain       "   209 

Gingerbread  loaf  209 

Bread  cake  210 

Fruit  gingerbread  210 

Sweet  wafers  211 

Boston  cream  cakes  211 

Nougat  212 

Pies  213 

Family  pie-crust  213 

Puff-paste  214 

Transparent  crust  215 

Mince  pies   215 

Mock  mince  meat  217 

Apple  pie  218 

Apple  custard  pie  218 

Apple  meringue  pie  ....219 

Pumpkin  pie  219 

Squash  pie  219 


31G 


INDEX. 


_  PAGE 

Sweet  potato  pie  219 

Irish  potato  pie,  or  pud- 
ding  

Lemon  pie,  or  trans 

pudding. 
Lemon  pie 
Orange  pie 


parent 


220 

220 
221 
221 


22 1 
222 
222 
223 
223 


Lemon  tart   221 

Orange  tartlets  

Chocolate  tarts  

Cocoanut  pie  

custard  pie. 

Corn-starch  custard  pie  ^ 

Custard  pie  224 

Peach  pie  224 

Cl^erry  pie  224 

Currant  and  raspberry  tart. 225 

Currant  tart  225 

Green  gooseberry  tart  225 

Ripe  pie  225 

Damson  tart  225 

Cranberry  tart  226 

Strawberry  pie  226 

Cream  raspberry  tart  226 

Rhubarb  tart  226 

"  pie  


PAGE 

Dorchester  cracker  plum 

P^f^cling   234 

Cracker  suet  pudding. .  . .  234 
Rice  and  tapioca  pudding.235 
Rice  pudding  with  eggs.  .235 

Batter  puddings  236 

German  puffs  236 

Lemon  puddings  236 

Lemon  meringue  pudding.  237 

Cocoanut  pudding  237 

Orange  marmalade  237 

Macaroni i  and  vermicelli 

Puddings  238 

Neapolitan  pudding  238 

Rhubarb  pudding  239 

Newark  " 


 227 

Pudding   227 

Apple  meringue  pudding.. 227 

Sweet  apple  pudding  227 

Pippm  pudding  228 

Brown  Betty  228 

Apple  and  plum  pudding.  .229 
"       tnpioca      "  229 
Baked  apple  dumplings. .  230 

Tapioca  puddings  231 

Corn  starch  meringue  ....231 
Fruit  bread  pudding  ....  232 
Bread  and  butter  piidding.232 
The  queen  of  puddings. . .  233 


 240 

Belle's  dumplings  240 

Berry  pudding  240 

Huckleberry  pudding. ...  241 

Apple  dumplings  241 

Boiled  fruit  pudding. ...  242 

Rice  dumplings  242 

Suet   242 

Boiled  Indian  meal  pud- 
ding 243 

Cabinet  pudding  243 

Eve's  pudding  244 

The  queen  of  plum  pud- 
dings  244 

Orange  roley-poley  .245 

Cherry  or  currant  pyramid. 245 

Fritters,  pancakes,  etc. ....  246 

Fritters  246 

Apple  fritters  246 

Tel!y       'V   246 

Queen's  toast  247 

Jelly-cake  fritters  247 

Pancakes  247. 


INDEX. 


317 


PAGE 

Sweet,  or  pudding  sauces . .  248 

Hard  sauce  248 

Bee-hive  sauce  248 

Brandy  sauce  ; .  249 

White  wine  sauce   249 

Lemon  sauce  249 

Milk  pudding  sauce  250 

Fruit  "   250 

Custard  sauce  251 

Jelly  sauce  251 

Sweetened  cream  252 

Cream  sauce  252 

Custards,  hla7ic-mange,  jellies 
and  creams  252 

Boiled  custard. .  252 

Almond   253 

Quaking    "   253 

Floating  island  254 

Spanish  cream  255 

Bavarian  cream  255 

Snow  custard  255 

Baked  custard  256 

French  tapioca  custard. .  .  256 
Corn-starch  blanc-mange.  ..257 
Farina  ••257 
Arrowroot  "  ■•257 
Almond  -.258 

Jaune  mange  258 

Chocolate  blanc-mange.  .  259 

Charlotte  russe  259 

A  Tipsy  Charlotte  260 

Chocolate  russe  260 

Gelatine  ....261 

Whipped  syllabubs  261 

Gooseberry  fool  262 

Cream  meringues  262 

Calf's  foot  jelly  262 

Wine  jelly  263 


PAGE 

Orange  jelly  264 

Chocolate  ice  cream ....  265 

Coffee.   265 

Italian   266 

Lemon  ....  266 

Raspberry  or  strawbery  ice 

cream  267 

Frozen   custard  with  the 

fruit  frozen  in  267 

Lemon  ice  267 

Orange  ice  268 

Pineapple  ice  268 

Cherry  ice  268 

Currant  and  raspberry  ice.  269 

Ripe  fruit  for  dessert  .269 

Salade  d'orange  269 

Ambrosia  269 

Peaches  and  pears  270 

Currants  and  raspberries  ..270 
Frosted  currants  270 

Preserves  and  fruit  jellies  ..270 

Preserved  peaches  ......  271 

"        pears  271 

Peach  marmalade  271 

Preserved   quinces  272 

"       Apples  272 

Quince  marmalade  273 

Apple  butter  273 

Preserved  crab  apples. ...  274 
"      green-gages  and 
large  purple  plums. ....  274 

Damsons  274 

Preserved  orange  peel ....  275 
Preserved  citron,  or  water- 
melon rind  275 

Preserved  cherries  276 

Strawberry  jam  ....  2  76 


318 


INDEX. 


Raspberry  jam  .  276 

Gooseberry  jam  276 

Ripe  tomato  preserves ....  276 


Green 


277 


Baked  apples  277 

Apples  stewed  whole.  .  .  .277 

Fruit  jellies :  278 

Currant,  blackberry,  Straw- 
berry, etc  278 

Peach  279 

Crab-apple  280 

Canned  Fruits  and  Vegeta- 
bles 280 

Canned  peaches  281 

"     pears  281 

"     plums   282 

"     tomatoes  282 

Preserved  green  corn.  .  . .  283 

Brandied  Fruits .  ...  284 


Brandied  peaches  or  pears.  2; 
"       cherries  or  ber- 


ries, 


284 


Candies  285 

Molasses  candy  285 

Sugar  candy  285 

Pickles  285 

Cucumber  or  gherkin  pic- 
kle. . .  286 

Pickled  mangoes.  287 

Pepper       "  .... 


Pickled  cabbage 


.  .288 


PAGE 

Pickled  onions  „  .  .289 

Green   beans  and  radish 

pods  289 

Pickled  cauliflowers  289 

Green  tomato,  soy  290 

Sweet  "  pickle.  . .  .  290 
Sweet  pickle,  plums,  pears, 

peaches,  or  other  fruits.. 291 

Pickled  peaches  291 

"      cherries  291 


Drinks  2 


92 


To  make  coffee  292 

Cafe  au  lait  ...  292 

Tea  


 293 

Chocolate  293 

Cocoa-nibs,  or  shells. .  .  .293 

Prepared  cocoa  294 

Raspberry  royal  294 

"       vinegar  ,  .294 

Currant  wine  ^95 

Roman  punch  295 

Sherry  cobbler  295 

Nectar  296 

Egg-nogg  296 

The  Sick- Room  296 

Beef  tea  296 

Mutton  broth  297 

Chicken  broth  297 

Veal  and  sago  broth  297 

Beef   "      "      "   298 

Arrowroot  jelly  298 

wine  jelly  298 

"        blanc  mange. .  •  299 

Indian-meal  gruel  299 

Oatmeal  gruel  . .  299 

Milk  and  rice  gruel  299 

Tapioca  jelly  300 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Tapioca  blanc-mange . .  . .  300 

Arrowroot  custard  300 

Sago  milk  301 

Tapioca  milk  301 

Boiled  rice  301 

Chicken  jelly   301 

Calves'-feet  broth  -301 

Toast  water  302 

Jelly      "   302 

Flaxseed  lemonade  302 

Slippery-elm  bark  tea.  .  .  .303 

Milk  punch  303 

Egg  and  milk  punch  303 

Dried  toast  303 

Herb  teas  303 

Mint  julep  304 


The  Nursery 


Farina  ^05 

Barley.  305 

Arrowroot  306 

Rice  jelly  306 

Milk  and  bread  306 

Hominy  and  milk  307 

Milk  porridge  307 

Sundries  307 

To  clean  carpets  307 

To  clean  paint  307 

To  keep  woolens  308 


To  clean  a  cloth  coat.  .  .  .308 


Cu  t  : 


i 

f 

if' 


UNIVERSfTY  OF  ILLINOIS-URBANA 


3  0112  077313218 


