"V^/O--"!    -- 


c 


01^  f^n  o  e.  fl  di  TEu 


f\  ec  1 1  ^  T~     /^oo// 


Pj     L  o  n  j'li^f^riaJ 


o 


O.^^f,      G,^.     'lloHo^^o      Kecs,^ 


r  s 


/^O,..      ,dr)      To      '^^^      T,  r-,^     c: 


We,,       -.  Jo/^Kl-^od  /V(Ch/-| 


i-y  '^(  o  ^  o 


O..      9j^.4      c_ 


v9 


(^  t^L^_        ^^ 


fT  ?  ■-■^- 


•■.<^i 


1 


THE 

WILLIAM  R.  PERKINS 

LIBRARY 

OF 

DUKE  UNIVERSITY 


Rare  Books 


CONFEDERATE 


"Vt' 


RECEIPT  BOOK. 


A   COMPILATION 


OF 


OVER  ONE  HUNDRED  RECEIPTS, 

t 

'  -i 

ADAPTED  to'  THE  TIMES. 


WEST  &  JOHNSTON,  RICHMOND. 

1863. 

Q.  W.  OAKY,  Printer,  21  Pearl  Street. 


M 


\ 


.'.^•^ai-:.' 


CONFEDERATE 


RECEIPT  BOOK 


A   COMPILATION 


OF 


OVER  OIE  HUIDRED  RECEIPTS, 


ADAPTED  TO  THE  TLMES. 


WEST  &  JOHNSTON,  RICHMOND,  VA- 
1863. 

G.  W.  GARY,  Printer,  21  Pearl  Street. 


ADVERTISEMENT. 


The  accompanying  receipts  have  been  compiled  and  publish- 
ed, with  a  view  to  present  to  the  public  in  a  form  capable  of  pre- 
servation and  easy  reference  many  valuable  receipts  which 
have  appeared  in  the  Southern  newspapers  since  the  commence- 
ment of  the  war.  With  these  have  been  incorporated  receipts 
and  hints  derived  from  other  sources,  all  designed  to  supply 
useful  and  economical  directions  and  suggestions  in  cookery, 
housewifery,  &c.,  and  for  the  camp.  Should  the  present  pub- 
lication meet  with  favor,  another  edition  with  additional  re- 
ceipts will  be  published,  contributions  to  which  will  be  thank- 
fully received  by 

THE  PUBLISHERS. 


CULINARY  RECEIPTS. 


Biscuit. — Take  one  quart  of  flour,  three  tcaspoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar,  mixed  well  through  the  flour^two  tablespoon- 
fula  of  shortening,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  warm 
water,  of  a  sufficient  quantity  to  moukl  the  quart  of  flour.  For 
large  families  the  amount  can  be  doubled. 

Another  Receipt. — Take  two  quarts  of  flour,  two  ounces  of 
butter,  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
pint  of  cold  milk,  and  half  cup  yeast.  Mix  well  and  set  to 
rise,  then  mix  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  in  a  little  water  and 
mix  inl-o.  dough,  roll  on  a  board  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  small 
biscuits,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Soda  Biscuit. — One  quart  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  one  of  salt,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and 
fl.our  enough  to  make  them  roll  out. 

Pumpkin  Bread. — Boil  a  good  pumpkin  in  water  till  it  is 
quite  thick,  pass  it  through  a  sieve,  and  mix  flour  so  as  to  make 
a  good  dough.     This  makes  an  excellent  bread. 

Nice  Buns. — Take  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour, 
two  large  spoonfuls  of  brown  sugar,  two  spoonfuls  of  good 
yeast,  add  a  little  salt,  stir. well  together,  and  when  risen  work 
in  two  spoonfuls  of  batter,  make  into  buns,  set  it  to  rise  again, 
and  bake  on  tins. 

Indian  Bread. — One  quart  of  butter  milk,  one  quart  of  corn 
meal,  one  quart  of  coarse  flour,  one  cup  of  molasses,  add  a 
little  soda  and  salt. 


6  Confederate 

To  RAISE  Bread  "without  Yeast. — Mix  in  your  flour  subcar- 
bonate  of  soda,  two  parts,  tartaric  acid  one  part,  both  finely 
powdered.  Mix  uj)  your  bread  with  warm  water,  adding  but 
little  at  a  time,  and  bake  soon. 

Yeast. — Boil  one  pound  of  good  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  brown  sugar  and  a  little  salt  in  two  gallons  of  water  for 
one  hour.  "When  milk  warm  bottle  it  close,  it  will  be  fit  lo  use 
in  twent3--four  hours.  One  part  of  this  will  make  eighteen 
pouads  of  bread, 

A  cheap  and  quick  Pudding. — Beat  up  four  eggs,  add  a  pint 
of  milk  and  little  salt,  and  stir  in  four  large  spoonfuls  of  flour, 
a  little  nutmeg  and  sugar  to  your  taste.  Beat  it  well,  and  pour 
it  into  buttered  teacups,  filling  them  rather  more  than  half  full* 
They  will  bake  in  a  stove  or  Dutch  oven  in  fifteen  minutes. 

Republican  Pudding. — Take  one  cup  of  soft  boiled  rice,  a 
pint  of  milk,  a  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  and  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg.     Serve  with  sauce. 

A  Minute  Pudding. — Stir  flour  into  boiling  milk  to  the  con- 
bistenceof  a  thin  hasty  pudding,  and  in  fifteeji  or  twenty  mi- 
nutes it  will  be  fit  for  the  table.  Serve  with  sauce  to  suit  the 
taste. 

Peas  Pudding. — Take  about  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  split 
poas,  and  put  them  into  a  pint  basin,  tie  a  cloth  over  them  (to 
give  room  to  swell,)  put  them  into  boiling  water,  and  let  them 
boil  two  hours,  then  take  them  up,  untie  them, , add  an  ogg. 
beaten  up,  a  liitle  butter,  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  beat  up, 
tie  up  again,  and  place  them  in  the  water  to  boil  for  about 
twenty  minutes  more,  you  will  then  have  a  well  flavored  and 
nice  shaped  pudding. 

Plain  Potato  Pudding. — Having  pared  a  pound  of  fine  large 
potatoes,  put  them  into  a  pot,  cover  them  well  with  cold  water, 


RECEIPT   BOOK.  7 

.and  ton  them  gently  till  tender  all  through.  "When  done  lay 
€ach  potato  (one  at  a  time)  in  a  clean  warm  «apkin,  and  press 
and  wring  it  1^11  all  the  moisture  is  squeezed  out,  and  the  potato 
becomes  a  round  dry  lump.  Mince  as  fine  as  possible  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  fresh  beef  suet,  (divested  of  skin  and  strings;) 
crumble  the  potato  and  miz  it  well  with  the  suet,  adding  a 
small  salt  spoon  of  salt.  Add  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  thick 
batter,  and  beat  it'well.  Pip  a  strong  square  cloth  in  hot  wa- 
ter, shake  it  out,  and  dredge  it  well  with  flour.  Tie  the  pud- 
ding in,  leaving  room  for  it  to  swell,  and  put  it  into  a  large  pot 
of  hot  water,  and  boil  it  steady  foj  an  hour.  This  is  a  good 
and  economical  pudding. 

Potato  Crust. — Boil  six  good-sized  mealy  potatoes,  and 
mash  them  fine,  add  salt,  a  spoonful  of  butter,  and  two  of  wa- 
ter, while  they  are  hot,  then  work  in  flour  enough  for  making 
a  paste  to  roll  out,  or  put  in  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  cream, 
and  no  butter  or  water.  This  is  a  good  crust  for  hot  pies  or 
dumplings. 

Paste  for  Pies. — Excellent  paste  for  fruit  or  meat  pics  may 
be  made  wi;,h  two-thirds  of  wheat  flour,  one-third  of  the  flour 
of  boiled  potatoes,  and  some  butter  or  dripping,  the  whole 
being  brought  to  a  proper  consistence  with  warm  water,  and  a 
small  quantity  of  yeast  added  when  lightness  is  desired.  This 
will  also  make  palateable  cakes  for  breakfast,  and  may  be 
made  with  or  without  spices,  fruit,  &c. 

Apple  Pie  without  Apples. — To  one  small  bowl  of  crackers, 
that  have  b^en  soaked  until  no  hard  parts  remain,  add  one 
teaepoonful  of  tartaric  acid,  sweeten  to  your  taste,  add  some 
butter,  and  a  veiy  little  nutmeg. 

Artificial  Oysters. — Take  young  green  corn,  grate  it  in  a 
dish  ;  to  one  pint  of  this  add  one*  egg,  well  beaten,  a  small  tea- 
cup of  flour,  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  some  salt 
and  pepper,  mix  them  all  together. 


8  CONFEDERATE 

A  tablespoonful  of  the  batter  -will  make  the  size  of  an  ors- 
ter.  Fry  them  light  brown,  and  when  done  butter  them.. 
Cream  if  it  can  be  procured  is  better. 

Cottage  Cheese. — This  is  a  good  way  of  using  up  a  pan  of 
milk  that  is  found  to  be  turning  sour.  Having  covered  it,  set 
it  in  a  warm  place  till  it  becomes  a  curd,  then  pour  off  the  liquid, 
and  lie  up  the  curd  in  a  clean  linen  bag  with  a  pointed  end, 
and  set  a  bowl  under  it  to  catch  the  droppings,  but  do  not 
squeeze  it.  After  it  has  drained  ten  or  twelve  hours  transfer 
the  curd  to  a  deep  dish,  enrich  it  with  some  cream,  and  pres.s 
and  chop  it  with  a  large  spoon  till  it  is  a  soft  mass,  adding  as 
5'ou  proceed  an  ounce  or  more  of  nice  fresh  butter. 

Slapjacks. — Take  flour,  little  sugar  and  water,  mix  with  or 
without  a  little  yeast,  the  latter  better  if  at  hand,  mix  into 
paste,  and  fry  the  same  as  fritters  in  clean  fat. 

Indian  Sagamite. — Three  parts  of  Indian  meal  and  one  of 
brown  sugar,  mixed  and  browned  over  the  fire,  will  make  the 
food  known  as  ''Sagamite."  Used  in  small  quantities,  it  not 
only  appeases  hunger  but  allays  thirst,  and  is  therefore  useful 
to  soldiers  on  a  scout.  •  ♦ 


RKCEirX   BOOK. 


BEER.   VINEGAR.   &c. 

Table  Beer. — To  ci^^lit  quarts  of  boiling  w-atcr  put  a  pound 
of  treacle,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  ginger  and  two  bay  loaves, 
let  this  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  cool,  and  work  it 
Avith  yeast  as  other  beer.  ;  ' . 

Another  Eeceipt. — Eight  quarts  water,  one  quart  molasses, 
one  pint  yeast,  one  tablespoonful  cream  ^f  tartaj,  mixed  and 
bottled  in  twenty-four  hours;  or,  to  two  pounds  of  coarse 
brown  sugar  add  two  gallons  of  water,  and  nearly  two  ounces 
hops.  Let  the  whole  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  then 
work  as  usual.  It  should  stand  a  week  or  ten  days  before 
being  drawn,  and  will  improve  daiJy  afterward  for  a  moderate 
time. 

SrRUCE  Beer. — Take  Uu'ee  gallons  of  water,  blood  warmth, 
three  half  pints  of  molasses,  a  tablespoonful  of  essence  of 
spruce,  and  the  .like  quantity  of  ginger,  mix  well  together  with 
a  gill  of  yeast,  let  it  stand  over  night,  and  bottle  in  the  morn- 
ing. It  will  bo  in  a  good  condition  to  drink,  in  twenty-four 
.hours. 

Ginger  B]<!er. — One  pint  of  molasses  and  two  spoonfuls  of 
ginger  put  into  a  pail,  to  be  half  filled  with  boiling  water ; 
when  well  stirred  together,  fill  the  pail  with  cold  water,  leav- 
ing room  for  one  pint  of  yeast,  which  must  not  be  put  in  until 
lukewarm.  Place  it  on  a  warm  hearth  for  the  night,  and'bot- 
tlo  in  the  morning. 

Blackberry  Wine. — Measure  your  berries  and  bruise  them  ; 
to  every  gallon  add  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  let  the  mixture 


10  ,  CONFEDERATE 

stand  twenty -four  hours,  stirring  occasionally,  then  strain  off 
the  liquor  into  a  cask ;  to  every  gallon  add  two  pounds  of  su- 
gar, cork  tight,  and  let  it  stand  till  following  October,  and  you 
will  have  wine  ready  for  use  without  any  farther  straining  or 
boiling,  that  will  make  lips  smack  as  they  never  smacked  un- 
der similar  influence  before. 

ArPLE  Water. — -^Take  one  tart  apple  of  ordinary  size,  well 
baked,  let  it  be  well  mashed,  pour  on  it  one  pint  of  boiling 
water,  beat  them  well  together,  let  it  stand  to  cool,  and  strain 
it  off  for  use.     It  may  be  sweetened  with  sugar  if  desired. 

Cider  Jelly. — Boil  cider  to  the  consistence  of  syrup,  and  let' 
it  cool,  and  you  Lave  nice  jelly. 

To  make  Vinegar. — Take  one  pint  of  molasses,  put  it  in  a 
jug  with  one  gallon  of  warm  water,  not  boiling,  let  it  stand  for 
two  months,  and  you  will  have  good  vinegar. 

Another  receipt  for  a  larger  quantity. — To  eight  gallons 
of  clear  rain  water  add  three  quarts  of  molasses,  put  into  a 
good  cask,  shake  well  a  few  times,  then  add  two  or  three 
spoonfuls  of  good  yeast.  If  in  summer  place  the  cask  in  the 
sun;  if  in  winter  near  the  chimney,  where  it  may  be  warm. 
In  ten  or  fifteen  days  add  to  the  liquid  a  sheet  of  brown  paj^er, 
torn  in  strips,  dipped  into  molasses,  and  good  vinegar  will  be 
produced. 

Tomato  Catsup. — Nice  catsup  may  be  made  wit£  four  quarts 
of  tomatoes,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  three  table  spoonfuls  salt, 
two  of  mustard,  two  of  black  pepper,  three  red  peppers  bro- 
ken, and  half  ounce  alspice  or  mace. 


RECEIPT   BOOK.  '  11 


SOAP   AND    CANDLES. 

Soap. — Pour  twelve  quarts  of  boiling-  water  upon  five  pounds 
of  unslacked  lime.  Then  dissolve  five  pounds  of  washing  soda 
in  twelve  quarts  of  boiling  "water,"  mix  the  above  together, 
and  let  the  mixture  remain  from  twelve  to  twenty  four 
hours,  for  the  purpose  of  chemical  action.'  JSTow  pour  off 
all  the  clear  liquid,  being  careful  not  to  disturb  the  sediment. 
Add  to  the  above  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  clarified  grease, 
and  from  three  to  four  ounces  of  rosin.  Boil  this  compound 
together  for  one  hour,  and  pour  off  to  cool.  Cut  it  up  in  bars 
for  use,  and  you  are  in  possession  of  a  superior  chemical  soap, 
costing  about  three  and  a  half  cents  per  pound  in  ordinary 
times. 

Soft  Soap. — Bore  some  holes  in  a  Ij-e  barrel,  put  some  straw 
in  the  bottom,  lay  some  uuslackcd  lime  on  it,  and  fill  30ur  bai'rel 
with  good  hard  wood  ashes,  wet  it,  aixl  pound  it  down  as  you  . 
put  it  in.  When  full,  make  a  basin  in  the  ashes  and  pour  in 
water,  keep  filling  it  as  it  sinks  in  the  ashes.  In  the  course  of 
a  fevv' hours  the  lye  will  begin  to  run.  When  you  have  a  suf. 
ficient  quantity  to  begin  withj  put  your  grease  in  a  large  ii'on 
potj  pour  in  the  lye,  let  it  boil,  <fcc.  Three  pounds  of  clean 
grease  are  allowed  for  two  gallons  of  soap. 

Honey  Soap. — Cut  into  thin  shavings  two  jiounds  of  common 
yellow  or  white  soap,  put  it  on  the  fire  with  just  water  enough 
to  keep  it  fiom  burning;  when  quite  melted,  add  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  honey,  stirring  it  till  it  boils,  then  take  it  off,  and 
add  a  few  drops  of  any  agreeable  perfume.  Pour  it  into  a 
deep- dish  to  cool,  and  then  cut  it  into  squares.  It  improves 
by  keeping.     It  will  soften  and  whiten  the  skin. 


12  CONFEDERATE 

Tallow  Candles. — After  melting  the  tallow,  add  say  one 
pound  of  quicklime  to  every  twenty  of  tallow,  strain  the  tal" 
low,  and  mould  the  candles.  If  this  recipe  is  followed,  3'ou 
will  have  a  candle  equal  to  the  adamantine,  free  from  all  im- 
purities, and  giving  a  brilliant  light. 

Confederate  Candle. — Melt  together  a  pound  of  beeswax 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rosin  or  of  turpentine,  fresh  from 
the  tree.  Prepare  a  wick  30  or  40  yards  long;  made  up  of  three 
threads  of  loose!}'  spun  cotton,  saturate  this  well  with  the 
mixture,  and  draW  it  through  3'our  fingers,  to  press  all  closely 
together,  and  to  keep  the  size  even.  Eepeat  the  process  until 
the  candle  attains  the  size  of  a  large  straw  or  quill,  then  wrap 
around  a  bottle,  or  into  a  l>all  with  a  flat  bottom.  Six  inches 
of  this  candle  elevated  above  the  rest'  will  burn  for  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes,  and  give  a  very  pretty  light,  and  forty  3'ards 
have  sufficed  a  small  family  a  summer  for  all  the  usual. purposes 
of  the  bed-chamber. 


RECEIPT    BOOK.  13 


REMEDIES.  &c. 

For  Dysentery.  — Dissolve  as  much  tabic  salt  in  pure  xlncgtir 
as  will  ferment  and  work  clear.  When  the  foam  is  discharged 
cork  it  up  in  a  bottle,  and  put  it  away  for  use.  A  large  spoon- 
ful of  this  in  a  gill  of  boiling  water  is  efficacious  in  cases  of 
dysentery  and  cholic. 

Cure  FOR  "Chills. — The  plant,  commonly  called  ho'arhound, 
is  said  to  afford  a  certain  cure.  Boil  it  in  water,  and  drink 
freely  of  the  tea. 

Gargle  for  Sore  Throat,  Diptherla  or  Scarlet  Feyer. — 
Mix  in  a  common  size  cup  of  fresh  milk  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
pulverized  charcoal  and  ten  drops  of  spirits  of  turpentine.  Sof- 
ten the  charcoal  with  a  few  drops  of  milk  before  putting  into 
the  cup.  Gargle  frequently,  according  to  the  violence  of  the 
symptoms. 

To  relieve  Asthma. — Take  the  leaves  of  the  stramonium 
(or  Jamestown  weed,)  dried  in  the  shade,  saturated  with  a 
pretty  strong  solution  of  salt  petre,  and  smoke  it  so  as  to  in- 
hale the  ftlmes.  It  may  strangle  at  first  if  taken  too  freely, 
but  it  will  loosen  the  phlegm  in  the  lungs..  The  leaves  should 
be  gathered  before  frost. 

Simple  cure  for  Croup.— If  a  child  is  taken  with  croup  ap- 
ply cold  water  suddenly  and  freely  to  the  neck  and  che  t  with 
a  sponge  or  towel.  The  breathing  will  instantly  be  relieved, 
then  wipe  it  dry,  cover  it  up  warm,  and  soon  a  quiet  slumber 
will  relieve  tlic  parent's  anxiety. 


14  CONFEDERATE 

For  a  Troublesome  Cough. — Take  of  treacle  and  the 
best  white  wine  vinegar  six  tablespoonfuls  each,  add  forty 
drops  of  laudanum,  mix  it  well,  and  put  into  a  bottle.  A 
teaspoonful  to  be  taken  occasionally  when  the  cough  is  trouble- 
some. The  mixture  will  be  found  efficacious  without  the  lau- 
danum in  many  crises. 

For  Sick  '  Headache. — One  teaspoonful  of  pulverized 
chai'coal  and  one-third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  mixed  in  very 
warm  water. 

'  Cure  for  Toothache. — Powdered  alum  will  not  only 
relieve  the  toothache,  but  prevent  the  decay  of  the  tooth. 
Salt  may  advantageously  be  mixed  with  the  alum. 

Cure  for  a  Burn. — "Wheat  flour  and  cold  water,  mixed  to 
the  consistency  of  soft  paste,  is  an  almost  instantaneous  cure 
for  a  burn.     Ecnew  before  the  first  gets  so  dry  as  to  stick. 

Cure  for  C^mp  Itch. — Take  iodide  of  potassium,  sixty 
grains,  lard,  two  ounces,  mix  well,  and  after  washing  the  body 
well  with  warm  soap  suds  rub  the  ointment  over  the  person 
three  times  a  week.  In  seven  or  e'^^jht  days  the  acarus  or  itch 
insect  will  be  destroyed.  In  this  r  )cipe  the  horrible  effects  of 
the  old  sulphur  ointment  are  obvia-  ed. 

Cure  for  a  Felon. — The  SelmO  Reporter  says:  A  poultice 
of  onions,  applied  morning,  noon  md  night  for  three  or  four 
days,  will  cure  a  felon.  No  matto)  how  bad  the  case,  splitting 
the  finger  will  be  unnecessary,  if  this  poultice  be  used.  We 
have  seen  it  tried  several  times,  an  1  know  that  the  remedy  is 
a  sure,  safe  and  speedy  one. 

To  cure  Corns. — The  cause  of  corns,  and  likewise  the 
pain  they  occasion,  is  simply  fi-ictior,  and  to  lessen  the  friction 
you  have  only  to  use  your  toe  as  yo  i  do  in  like  circumstances 
a  coach  wheel — lubricate  it  with  g:  me  oily  substance.     The 


EECEIPT   BOOK.  15 

best  thing  to  nse  is  a  little  sweet  oil  rubbed  on  the  affected 
part  (after  the  corn  is  carefully  pared)  with  the  tip  of  the  fin- 
ger,, which  should  be  done  on  getting  up  in  the  mornings  and 
jnst  before  stepping  into  bed  at  night.  In  a  few  days  the  pain 
will  diminish,  and  in  a  few  days  more  it  will-  cease,  when  the 
nightly  application  may  be  discontinued- 

To  Destroy  Warts. — Dissolve  as  much  common  wash- 
ing soda  as  the  water  will  take  up,  wash  the  warts  with  this 
for  a  minute  or  two,  and  let  them  dry  without  wiping.  Keep 
the  water  in  a  bottle  and  repeat  the  washing  often,  and  it  will 
take  away  the  largest  of  warts. 


lb  CONFEDERATE 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS 

Preserving  Meat  without  Salt. — We  need  salt  as  a 
i'elish  to  GUI'  food,  but  it  is  not  essential  in  the  preservation  of 
our  meats.  The  Indians  used  little  or  no  salt,  yet  they  pre- 
served meat  apd  even  fish  in  abundance  by  drying.  This  can 
be  accomplished  by  fire,  by  smoke,  or  by  sunshine,  but  the  most 
rapid  and  reliable  mode  is  by  all  of  these  agents  combined.  To 
do  this  select  a  spot  having  fullest  command  of  sunshine. 
Erect  there  a  wigwan  five  or  six  feet  high,  with  an  open  top, 
in  size  proportioned  to  the  quantity  of  meat  to  be  cured,  and 
protected  from- the  winds,  so  that  all  the  smoke  must  pass 
through  the  open  top.  The  meat  cut  into  pieces  suitable  for 
drying  (the  thinner  the  better)  to  be  suspended  on  rods  in  the 
open  comb,  and  a  vigorous  smoke  made  of  decayed  wood  is  to 
be  kept  up  without  cessation.  Exposed  thus,  to  the  combined 
influence  of  sfinshine,  heat  and  smoke,  meat  cut  into  slices  not 
over  an'  inch  thick  can  bo  thoi'oughly  cured  in  twenty-four 
hours.  For  thicker  pieces  there  must  be,  of  course,  a  longer 
time,  and  the  cuwng  of  oily  meat,  such  as  pork,  is  more  diffi. 
cult  than  that  of  beef,  venison  or  mutton. 

To  cure  meat  inthe  sun  hang  it  On  the  South  side  of  your 
bouse,  as  near  to  the  wall  as  possible  without  touching. 

Savages  cure  fish  by  pounding  it  fine,  and  exposing  it  to  the 
bright  sun. 

To  CURE  Bacon  with  little  Salt. — Take  five  gallons 
water,  seven  pounds  salt,  one  pound  sugar,  or  one  pint  molas- 
ses, one  teaspoonful  saltpetre,  mix,  and  after  sprinkling  the  flesh 
side  of  the  hams  in  the  salt,  pack  in  a  tight  barrel,  hams  first, 
then  shoulders,  lastly  middlings.  Pour  over  the  brine,  and  if 
not  enough  to  cover,  make  another  draft  of  the  above,  and 


RECEIPT   3B0OK.  Vt 

■if 
tep«at  till  all  is  covered,  leaving  the  meat  in  brine  from  four  to 

seven  weeks,  according  to  size. 

To  PREVENT  Skippers  in  Ham. — In  order  to  avoid  tlie 
skipper,  and  all  worms  and  bugs  that  usually  infest  and  destroy 
bacon,  keep  your  smoke  house  (far^-,  and  the  moth  that  deposits 
the  eggs  will  never  enter  it.  Smoke  with  green  hickory,  this 
is  important,  as  the  flavor  of  the  bacon  is  often  destroyed  by 
smoking  with  improper  wood. 

Method  of  curing  bad  Butter. — Melt  the  butter  in  hot 
water,  skim  it  off  as  clean  ns  possible,  and  work  it  over  again 
in  a  churn,  add  salt  and  fine  sugar,  and  press  well. 

To  Clarify  Molasses. — To  free  molasses  from  its  shai-p 
taste,  and  to  render  it  fit  to  be  used,  instead  of  sugar,  take 
twelve  pounds  of  molasses,  twelve  pounds  of  water,  and  three 
pounds  of  charcoal,  coarsely  pulverized,  mix  them  in  a  kettle, 
and  boil  the  whole  over  a  slow  wood  fire.  When  the  mixture 
has  boiled  half  an  hour,  pour  it  into  a  flat  vessel,  in  order  that 
the  charcoal  may  subside  to  the  bottom,  then  pour  off  the 
liquid,  and  place  it  over  the  fire  once  more,  that  the  supcrflous 
water  may  evaporate,  and  the  molasses  be  brought  to  their  for- 
mer consistence.  Twelve  pounds  of  molasses  will  produce 
twelve  pounds  of  syrup. 

Substitute  for  Cream  in  Tea  or  Coffee. — Beat  the 
white  of  an  egg  to  a  froth,  put  to  it  a  very  small  lump  of  but- 
ter, and  mix  well,  then  turn  the  coffee  to  it  gradually,  so  that 
it  may  not  curdle.  If  perfectly  done  it  will  be  an  excellent  sub- 
stitute for  cream.     For  tea  omit  the  butter,  using  only  the  egg. 

Substitute  for  Coffee.— Take  sound  ripe  acorns,  wash 
them  while  in  the  shell,   dry  them,  and  parch  until  they  open, 
take  the   shell  off,  roast  with  a  little   bacon  fat,  and  you    will 
have  a  splendid  cup  of  coffee. 
2 


13  CONFEDERATE 

To    JUDGE    OF    THE    QUALITY    OF   LaMB. — If  fresll    tllG    VeiK 

in  the  neck  of  a  forequarter  is  bluish ;  if  greerr  or  j-ellow  it  m 
stale.  In  the  hindquarter  if  the  knuckle  is  limp,  and  the  part 
under  the  kidney  smells  slightly  disagreeable,  avoid  it.  If  the 
eyes  are  sunken  do  not  buy  the  head. 

To  TEST  Flour. — Knead  a  small  quantity  byway  of  ex- 
periment. If  goody  the  flour  immediately  forms  an  adhesive 
elastic  paste,  which  will  readily  assume  any  form  that  may  be 
given  to  it  without  breaking. 

To  PREPARE  Salt. — Set  a  lump  of  salt  in  a  plate  before 
the  fire,  and  when  dry  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  or  rub  two  pieces 
of  salt  together.  It  will  then  be  free  from  lumps,  and  in  very 
fine  povvdcr.  (. 

Soft  Water. — If  you  are  troubled  to  get  'soft  water  for 
washing  fill  a  tub  or  bauel  half  full  of  wood  ashes,  and  fill  it  up 
with  water,  so  that  you  may  have  Ij'e  whenever  30U  want  it. 
A  gallon  of  strong  lye  put  into  a  large  kettle  of  bard  water 
will  make  it  as  soft  as  rain  water. 

Nutmegs. — The  largest,  lieaviest,  and  most  unctuous 
jiutaj.egB  are  the  best.  If  you  begin  to  grate  a  nutmeg  at  the 
stalk  cud  it  will  prove  hollow  throughout. 

lliCE  Glue. — Mix  rice  flour  smootlil}^  with  cold  water, 
and  simmer  it 'over  a  slow  fire,  when  it  will  form  a  delicate  and 
diiruble  cement,  not  only  answering  all  the  purposes  of  common 
paste,  but  well  adapted  for  joining  paper  and  card  board  orna 
mental  work. 

To  CEMENT  BROKEN  CiiiNA  OR  Glass. — Bcat  lime  to  the 
finest  powder,  and  sift  it  through  fine  muslin,  then  tie  some 
into  a  thin  muslin,  put  on  the  edges  of  the  broken  china  some 
white- of  egg,  dust  some  lime  quickly  on  the  same,  and  unite 
ihem  exactly. 


RECEIPT    BOOK.  19 

Ink. — To  make  five  gallons  of  good  cheap  ink,  take 
lialf  a  pound  of  extract  of  logwood  and  dissolve  it  in  five  gal- 
lons of  hot  water,  and  add  half  an  ounce  of  bichromate  pot- 
ash.    Strain  and  bottle  it. 

To  IMPROVE  PALE  Black  Ink. — To  a  pint  of  black  ink 
add  one  drachm  of  impure  carbonate  of  potassa,  and  in  a  few 
minutes  it  will  be  jet  black.  Be  careful  that  the  ink  docs  not 
run  over  during  the  etforvesconcc  caused  b}'   the  potassa.' 

To  PRESERVE  Steel  Pens. — Metallic  pens  may  be  pre- 
served i'mjm  rusting  by  thi-owing  into  the  bottle  containing  the 
ink  a  few  nails  or  broken  picoes  of  steel  |>«ns  if  not  varnished. 
The  corrosive  action  of  the  acid  which  the  ink  contains  is  ex- 
pended on  the  iron  so  introduced,  and  will  not  therefore  affect 
the  pen. 

Fire  Balls  for  Fuel. — Mix  one  bushel  of  small  coal 
or  sawdust-,  or  both,  with  two  bushels  of  sand  and  one  bushel 
and  a  half  of  clay,  make  the  mixture  into  balls  with  water, 
and  pile  them  in  a  dry  place  to  harden  them.  A  fire  cannot  bo 
lighted  with  these  balls,  but  when  it  burns  strong  put  them  on 
above  the  top  bar,  and  they  will  keep  up  a  strong  heat. 

To  PURIFY  River  or  Muddy  "Water. — Dissolve  half  an 
ounce  of  alum  in  a  i)int  of  warm  water.  :nl  stirring  it  about 
in  a  puncheon  of  water  from  the  river,  all  the  impurities  will 
soon  settle  to  the  bottom,  and  in  a  da}"  or  two  it  will  become 
quiti^elcar. 

To  give  a  cool  taste  to  Water. — A.  few  leaves,  of  sheep 
mint  held  in  the  mouth,  or  chewed,  just  before  drinking  water, 
will  seemingly  impart  a  degree  of  coolness  to  the  draught. 

To  prevent  Thirst. — Coffee  grounds  chewed  at  intervals 
on  a  march,  or  during  any  arduous  service,  will  repress  thirst, 


20  CONFfiKERAi'E 

and  satiate  the  cravings  of  hunger.  .  When  boiled  over  again, 
and  the  decoction  becomes  cool,  it  will  quench  thirst  more  ef- 
fectively than  water. 

Charcoal  Tooth  Powder. — Pound  charcoal  as  fine  a;^ 
possible  in  a  mortar,  or  grind  it  in  a  mill,  then  well  sift  it,  and 
apply  a  little  of  it  to  the  teeil)  about  twice  a  week,  and  it  will 
not  only  render  them  beautifully  white,  but  will  also  make  the 
breatl\  sweet,  and  the  gums  firm  and  comfortable.  If  the  char-^ 
coal  is  ground  in  a  mortal',  it  is  convenient  to  grind  it  in  wa- 
ter to  prevent  the  dust  from  frying  about.     Indeed  the  powder 

is  more  convenient  for  use  when  kept  in  water.  • 

• 

Wax  for  sealing  Bottles. — Take  equal  parts  of  rosin 

^nd  beeswax  and  melt  over  a  fire,  stir  in  some  Spanish  Brown, 

and  while  hot  dip  in  the  bottles. 

Cheap  Blacking.— -To  a  tea-cup  of .  molasses  stir  in 
lampblack  until  it  is  black,  then  add  the  white  of  two  eggs,  well 
beaten,  and  to  this  add  a  pint  of  vinegar  or  wdiiskey,  and  put 
it  in  a  bottle  for  use.     Shako  it  before  using. 

Chinese  method  of  rendering  Cloth  Waterproof. — 
To  one  ounce  of  white  wax,  melted,  add  one  quart  of  spirits  of 
turpentine,  in  which,  when  thoroughly  mixed  and  cold,  dip  the 
cloth  and  hangup  to  dry.     Try  it. 

To  CLEAN  Kid  Gloves. — First  see  tliat  your  hands  arc 
clean,  then  put  on  the  gloves  and  wash  them,  as  though  you 
were  washing  your  hands  in  a  basin  of  turpentine,  then  h|ing 
them  up  in  a  warm  place,  or  where  there  is  a  good  current  of 
air,  which  will  dhrry  off  all  smell  of  turpentme.  This  method 
was  brought  from  Paris,  and  thousands  of  dollars  have  been 
made  by  it. 

To  bleach  Straw  Hats,  &c. — ^Straw  hats  and  bonnet* 
are  bleached  by  putting  them,  previously  washed  in  puie  wa- 


BECEIPT    BOOK.  *  21 

ter,  into  a  box  with  burning  sulphur,  the  fumes  which  arise 
unite  with  the  water  on  the  bonnets,  and  the  sulphurous  acid 
thus  formed  bleaches  them. 

To  EEMOVE  Grease  from  Cloth. — Take  soft  soap  and 
fuller's  earth,  of  each  half  a  pound,  beat  them  well  together  in 
n  mortar,  and  form  cakes.  Tlie  spot  first  moistened  with  wa- 
ter is  rubbed  with  the  cake  and  allowed  to  dry,  when  it  is  well 
rubbed  with  a  little  warm  water,  and  afterwai-ds  rinsed  or  rub- 
bed clean. 

To  REMOVE  Grease  from  Books. — Lay  upon  the  spot  a 
little  magnesia  or  powdered  chalk,  a'nd  under  it  the  same,  set 
on  it  a  warm  flat  iron,  and  us  soon  as  the  grease  is  melted  it 
will  atl4>e  absorbed,  and  leave  the  paper  clean. 

To  make  old  Silk  look  as  well  as  new, — Unpick  the 
dress,  grate  two  Irish  potatoes  into  a  quart  of  water,  let  it  stand 
to  settle,  sirain  it  without  disturbing  the  sediment,  and  sponge 
the  silk  with  it.     Iron  on  the  wrono-  side. 

Poavder  to  clean  Gold  Lace. — Rock  alum  (burnt  and 
finel}-  powdered.)  five  parts,  levigated  chalk  one  part,  mix.  j\p- 
ply  with  a  dry  brush. 

To  keep  Arms  and  Polished  Metal  from  Rust. — Dis- 
solve one  ounce  of  camphor  in  two  pounds  of  hog's  lard,  ob- 
serving to  take  off  the  scum,  then  mix  as  much  black  lead  as 
Avill  give  the  mixture  an  iron  color.  Fire  arms,  &c.,  rubbed 
over  with  this  mixture,  leit  twentj'-four  hours,  and  then  dried 
with  a  linen  cloth,  will  keep  clean  for  many  months. 

To  make  economical  Wicks  for  Lamps. — When  using  a 
h^mp  with  a  flat  wick,  if  you  take  a  piece  of  clean  cotton  stock- 
ing it  will  answer  the  purpose  as  well  as  the  cotton  wicks 
which  are  sold  in  the  shops. 


22  CONFEDERATE 

To  Dry  Herbs. — Dry  the  gathered  crop,  thinly  spread 
out  and  shaded  from  the  sun,  tie  the  herbs  in  sinjdl  bunJles, 
and  keep  them  compactly  j^ressed  down  and  covered  with 
■white  paper;  or,  after  drj'ing  them,  put  each  sort  into  a  small 
box,  and  b}"  means  of  boards  fitted  in  it,  and  a  scrow-pross, 
press  the  herbs  into  cakes  or  litlle  trusses.  These  should  be 
afterwards  carefully  wrapped  up  in  paper  and  be  kept  in  a  drj- 
place,  Avhcn  thej'  will  retain  their  aroma  as  perfectly  as  when 
they  were  put  into  the  prt  s  ,  for  at  least  three  years.  By  the 
common  method  of  hanging  up  herbs  in  loose  bin  lies  the  odor 
soon  escapes. 

An  Illuminated  Bottle. — By  putting  a  piece  of  plios- 
]diorus  the  size  of  a  pea  into  a  phial,  and  adding  boiling  oil  un- 
til the  bottle  is  a  third  full,  a  luminous  bottle  is  formed,  for  on 
taking  out  the  cork  to  admit  atmospheric  air,  the  empty  space 
in  the  phial  \^ill  become  luminous.  Whenever  the  stopper  is 
taken  out  at  nighl,  sufficient  light  is  evolved  to  show  the  hour 
upon  a  watch,  and  if  care  bo  taken  to  keep  it  generally  well 
closed  it  willpreserve  its  illuminative  power  for  several  inonths. 

A  CHEAP  Taper  for  a  stck  'room. — Take  a  piece  of 
soft  pliant  paper,  part  of  newspaper  for  example,  and  form  a 
circle  of  it,  then  gather  the  centre  together  and  twist  it  into  a 
Avick,  immerse  the  wdiole  in  a  saucer  of  lard  and  light  it,  and 
you  have  a  taper  that  will  last  some  hours. 

To  prevent  Blisters  on  the  Feet. — Blistering  or  sore- 
ness of  the  feet  may  be  prevented  on  long  marches  by  covering 
the  soles  of  the  stos'cings  with  a  coating  of  the  cheapest  brown 
soap.     Coarse  cotto  i  socks  are  the  best  for  walking. 

Tough  Meat. — Those  whose  teeth  are  not  strons:  enougrh 
to  masticate  hard  beef  should  cut  their  steaks  the  day  before 
using  into  slices  about  two  inches  thick,  rub  over  them  a  small 
quantity  of  soda,  wash  off  next  morning,  cut  them  into  sui^»- 


RECEIPT    BOOK.  23 

able  thickness,  and  cook  nccording  to  fancy.     The  sanae    pro- 
cess %vill  answer  for  any  description  of  tougli  meat. 

Cheap  Door  MATS.^Cut  any  old  woolen  articles  into 
long  strips,  from  one  to  two  inches  'broad.  Braid  three  of 
these  together,  and  sew  the  braid  ronnd  in  gradually  increasing 
circles  till  large  enough. 

Economy  in  Carpets. — In  buying  a  carpet,  as  in  every- 
thing else,  those  of  the  best  quality  are  cheapest  in  the  end 
As  it  is  extremely  desirable  that  they^  should  look  as  clean  as 
possible,  avoid  buj'inga  carpet  that  has  any  white  in  it.  Even 
a  small  portion  of  white  inters]t3rsed*through  the  pattern  will 
in  a  short  time  give  it  a  dingy  appearance. 

If  you  cannot  obtain  a  hearth  rug  that  exactly  corresponds 
with  the  carpet,  get  one  entirely  different,  for  a-decided  contrast 
looks  bcttey  than  a  bad  match. 

Various  Hints. — One  flannel  petticoat  will  wear  nearly 
as  long  as  two,  if  turned  behind  part  before,  when  the  front 
begins  to  wear  out.  If  you  have  a  strip  of  land  do  not  throw 
away  soapsuds.  Both  ashes  and  soap  suds  are  good  manure 
for  bushes  and  young  plants. 

See  that  nothing  is  thrown  away  which  might  have  served 
to  nourish  your  own  family,  or  a  poorer  one. 

"  Brewis"  is  made  of  crusts  and  dry  pieces  of  bread  soaked 
a  good  while  in  hot  milk,  mashed  up,  and  eaten  with  salt. 

Charcoal  powder  will  be  found  a  very  good  thing  to  give 
knives  a  polish. 

A  bonnet  and  trimmings  may  be  worn  a  much  longer  time 
if  the  dust  be  brushed  well  off  after  walking. 

A  bowl  containing  two  quarts  of  water,  set  in  an  oven  when 
baking,  will  prevent  pies/cakes,  &c.,  from  being  scorched. 


CONFEDEBATB  2^ 


APPENDIX. 


RECIPES  FOR  MAKING  BREAD,  &c.,  FROM  RICE 

FLOUR.  ■ 

RussEL  County,  Ala.,  September  8th,  1862. 

Editors  Columbus  Sun  : — I  read  an  article  in  one  of  your  pa- 
pers lately  in  which  recipes  for  making  different  kinds  of  bread 
with  rice  flour  were  enquired  for,  and  having  a  few  that  I 
think  will  be  found  very  good  I  send  them  to  you.  They  weri> 
printed  in  Charleston,  S.  C,  several  years  ago. 

ELizfABETH  B.  Lewis. 

To  MAKE  Loaf  Rice  Bread. — Boil  a  pint  of  rice  soft,, 
add  a  pint  of  leaven,  then  three  quarts  of  rice  flour,  put  it  to 
rise  in  a  tin  or  eathern  vessel,  until  it  has  raised  suftioiently; 
divide  it  into  three  parts,  and  bake  it  as  other  bread,  and  you 
will  have  three  large  loaves,  or  scald  the  flour,  and  when  cold 
mix  half  wheat  flour  or  corn  meal,  raised  with  leaven  in  the 
usual  way. 

Another. — One  quart  of  rice  flour,  make  it  into  a  stiff 
pap,  by  wetting  with  warm  water,  not  so  hot  as  to  make  it 
lumpy,  when  well  wet  add  boiling  water,  as  much  as  two  or 
three  quMi'ts,  stir  it  continually  until  it  boils,  put  in  half  pint  of 
yeast  when  it  cools,  and  a  little  salt,  knead  in  as  much  wheat 
flour  as  will  make  it  a  proper  dough  for  bread,  put  it  to  rise,  and 
when  risen  add  a  little  more  wheat  flour,  let  it  stand  in  a  warn* 


26.  RECEIPT    BOOK. 

place  half  an  hour,  and  bake  it.     This  same  mixture  only  made 
thinner  and  baked  in  rings  make  excellent  muffins. 

JouRXEY_  OR  JoNXY  Cake.?. — To  three  spoonfuls  of  soft 
boiled  rice  add  a  small  tea  cip  of  water  or  milk,  then  add  six 
spoonfuls  of  the  rice  flour,  wliich  will  make  a  large  .Tonny  cake 
or  six  wafHcs. 

Rice  Cakes. — Take  a  pint  of  soft  boiled  rice,  a  lia'lf  pint 
of  milk  or  water,  to  which  add  twelve  spoonfuls  of  the  rice  flour, 
divide  it  into  small  cakes,  and  bake  them  in  a  brick  oven. 

Rice  Cakes  like  Buckwheat  Cakes.— Mix  one-fourth 
wheat  flour  to  three-fourths  superfine  rice  flour,  and  raise  it  as 
buckwheat  flour,  bake  it  like  buckwheat  cakes. 

To  MAKE  Wafers. — Take  a  pint  of  warm  water,  a  -tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  add  a  pint  of  the  flnur  and  it  will  give  you  two 
dozen  A\',afers. 

To  make  Rice  Puffs. — To  a  pint  of  the  Hour  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  beat  up  four  eggs,  stir 
them  well  together,  pat  from  two  to  three  spoonfuls  of  lard  in 
a  pan,  make  it  boiling  hot  and  fry  as  3'ou  do  common  fritters. 

To  make  a  Rice  I^udding. — Take  a  quart  of  milk,  add 
a  pint  of  the  floui-,  boil  them  to  a  pap,  beat  up  six  eggs,  to  which 
add  six  spoonfuls  of  Havana  sugar  and  a  spoonful  of  butter, 
which  when  well  beaten  together  add  to  the  milk  and  flour, 
grease  the  pan  it  is  to  be  baked  in,  grate  nutmeg  over  the  mix- 
ture and  bake.it.  • 

Rice  Flour  Sponge  Cake. — Made  like  sponge  cake,  ex- 
cept that  you  use  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  rice  flour,  thirteen 
eggs,  leaving  out  four  whites,  and  add  a  little  salt. 

Rice   Flour    Blanc   Mange. — Boil  one  quart  of  milk, 


CONFEDERATE  27 

season  it  as  to  your  taste  -with  sugar  and  rose  water,  take  four 
table-spoonfuls  of  the  rice  flour,  mix  it  very  smooth  with  cold 
milli,  add  this  to  the  other  mills  while  it  is  boiling,  stirring  it 
well.  Let  all  boil  together  about  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  occa- 
sionally, then  pour  it  into  moulds  and  put  it  by  to  cool.  This 
is  a  vcrj'  favorite  article  for  invalids. 

lliCE  Griddle  Cakes. — Boil  one  cup  of  whole  rice  quite 
soft  in  milk,  and  while  hot  stir  in  a  little  wheat  flour  or  rice 
flour  when  cold,  add  two  eggs  and  a  litllc  salt,  bake  in  small 
thin  cakes  on  tjie  griddle. 

In  every  case  in  making  rice  flour  bread,  cake  or  ])uddiiig,  a 
well  boiled  pap  should  be  first  made  of  all  the  milk  and  water 
and  half  the  flour,  and  allowed  to  get  perfectly  cold  before  ^hc 
other  ingredients  are  adled.  It  forms  a  support  for  them,  an(J 
j)revents  the  flour  from  settling  at  the  bottom,  stir  the  whole  a 
moment  before  it  is  set  to  cook. 


HINTS  FOR  TPIP:  LADIES. 

Some  of  the  more  economical  readers  may  be  glad  to  have  a 
little  advice  as  how  to  freshen  up  a  dress  of  which  they  have 
got  tired,  or  which  may  be  beginning  to  lose  its  beaut3\  Those 
which  are  soilerd,  or  worn  at  the  bottom  may  be  made  up  so  as 
to  look  very  well  at  very  small  expense,  and  with  little  trouble. 
Thus,  for  a  dress  of  fancy  material,  a  band  of  alapaca  between 
tive  and  six  inches  in  Avidth  will  suffice  to  renew  it.  This  band 
should  bo  waved  at  the  top,  and  piped  with  a  thi^ck  blue  or  red 
piping.  The  sleeves  must  have  a  similar  reverse,  and- a  little 
Swiss  body,  trimmed  also  with  a  piping,  will  complete  the  cos- 
tiyne.  For  taff'etas  dresses  the  band  should  be  of  tlio  same 
material,  but  black,  and  finished  off  at  the  top  in  the  same  man- 
ner ;  or,  if  a  more  simple  arrangement  bej^referred,  it  may  be 
headed  with  two  or  three  rows  of  narrow  ribbon  plated  in  the 


^8  RECEIPT    BOOK. 

middle.  A  band  might  be  replaced  with  two  flounces,  or  pink- 
ed black  taffetas  ;  these  will  have  a  better  effect  if  placed  a  lit- 
tle distance  from  another,  and  with  a  heading. 

If  it  should  happen  that  a  skirt  of  taffetas  requires  widen- 
ing, and  all  thought  of  matching  the  dress  has  been  given  up 
the  only  resource  left  is  to  insert  pla-n  bands.  If  the  dress  be 
of  a  deep  shade,  we  would  advise  that  the  bands  be  made  of 
black  taffetas,  not  quite  eight  inches  wide,  and  put  in  between 
each  breadth  ;  in  this  style  the  skirt  will  have  no  trimming  at 
the  bottom,  unless  it  be  a  band  of  black  taffetas  in  wide  scollops 
or  festoons,  one  scollop  reaching  just  across  the  breadth  of  the 
taffetas  from  one  black  band  to  the  next ;  this  should  be  head- 
ed by  a  narrow  ruche  of  libbon,  and  a  similar  ruche  placed  up 
eaeh  black  band  un  the  skirt.  In  setting  this  dress  on  to  the 
skirt,  care  should  be  taken  to  so  arrange  the  plates  that  the 
black  band  may  be  folded  under  so  as  not  to  show  at  the  waist. 
A  Swiss  sash  should  be  added  as  a  finish  to  the  bod}-,  and  plain  . 
turned-back  cuffs.  If  the  dress  be  a  light-colored  plain  taffe- 
tas,, the  best  arrangement  will  bo  to  make  the  bands  of  the 
game  color,  but  of  a  deeper  shade,  and  the  little  ruche  should 
he  composed  of  narrow  guipure  instead  of  ribbon. — LeFoIlef 


^ 


liNDEI. 


Apple  Pie  without  Apples, 

7 

Gloves,  To  Clean  Kid 

20 

Apple  Water, 

10 

Grease,  To  Remove 

21 

Asthma,  To  Relieve 

13 

Gold  Lace,  To  Clean 

21 

Biscuit, 

5 

Headache,  Cure  for 

14 

Biscuit,  Soda 

5 

Ham.  To  Preveirt  Skippers  in 

17 

Bread,  Punii)kin 

5 

Heibs,  To  Dry 

22 

Bread,  Indian 

5 

Hints  for  Ladies, 

2'r 

Bread  W'thout  Yeast, 

C 

Ink,  To  Make 

19 

Buns, 

5 

Ink,  To  Improve 

19 

Beer,  Table 

9 

Illuminated  Bottle. 

22 

Beer,  Spruce 

9 

Jelly.  Cider, 

10 

Beer,  Ginger 

9 

Lambs,  To  .Judge 

18 

Blackberry  Wine, 

9 

Meat,  To  Preserve 

V'i 

Burn,  Cure  for 

14 

Molasses,  To  Clarify 

17 

Bacon,  Curing 

IG 

Meat,  Tough     • 

22 

Butter,  To  Cure  Bad 

17 

Mats,  Cheap 

28 

Blacking, 

20 

Nutmegs,  To  Choose 

22 

Bleachhig  Hats, 

20 

Oystei's,-  Artificial 

7 

Bhsters  on  Feet,  To  Prevent 

22 

Puddings, 

c, 

Bre'.vis, 

23 

Potato  iJrust, 

1 

Cottage  Cheese, 

8 

Paste  for  Pies, 

7 

Catsuj),  Tomato 

10 

Rust,  To  Prevent 

21 

Candles, 

12 

Rico  Flour,  Receipts 

24 

Chills,  Remedy  for 

13 

Slajjjacks, 

8 

Crouji,  Remedy  for 

18 

Sagamite, 

S 

Cuugn,  For  a 

14 

^oa]i,  To  Make 

n 

Camp  Itch,  Cure  lor 

14 

Scnrlet  Fever,  Gargle  for 

18 

Corns,  Cure  for 

14 

h' alt,. To  Prepare 

18 

Cream.  Substitute  for* 

17 

Steel  Pens,  To  Preserve 

19 

Coffee,  Substitute  for 

17 

Thirst,  To  Prevent 

19 

Cement  for  Glass, 

18 

Tooth  Powder, 

20 

Cloth,  Wajerproof 

20 

1  apers,  (gheap 

22 

Cloth,  To  Remove  Grease  from 

21 

Vinegar,  To  Make 

10 

Cart)ets,  Economy  in 

Cto 

Vari()Ui  Hints, 

28 

Dysentery,  <Jure  for 

18 

Wine,  Black'  erry 

9 

Diplheria,  Gargle  for 

13 

Warts.  To  Destroy 

15 

Door  Mats,  Cheap 

23 

Water,  Soft 

18 

Felon,   Cure  for 

14 

Water,  To  Purify 

19 

Flour,  To  Test 

18 

Water,  To  Give  Cool  Taste  to 

♦     19 

Fiiel,  Fire  Calls  for 

19 

Wax  for  Bottles, 

20 

Feet,  Blisters  on 

22 

Wicks  for  Lamps, 

21 

Ginger  Beer, 

9 

Yeast,  Bread  Without 

0 

Glue,  Rice 

18 

Yeast,  To  Make 

(J 

NEW    PUBLICATIONS 

J  ^ST,  rf  E  AI>Y    AT    WEST    A    JOH  If  S  T  O  WJfe.  I 

145    MAIN    STREET. 

I.— NO  JfAME.  A  Novel.  By  Wilkib  Colliss,  author  of  "Tha  Woman 
in  White,"  "  Queen  of  Hearts,"  &c.,  &c. 

This  wiirk  is  from  ihe  pen  of  one  of  the  most  gifted  Writers  of  the  day, 
and  "  No  Name"  surpasses  in  beauty  and  vigor  all  of  his  former  productions. 
It  is  the  most  popular  Novel  of  18G3 — magnificent  in  plot,  diction  and  narra- 
tion. .,  .  ' 

Price  $1,  XTpon  the  receipt  of  the.price  wHwill  forward  it  to  any  part  of 
the  Confederacy,  '*«'   •  '        v|p 

II.— LES  Mi3EPvABLES  (FANTINE,)  now^dy.  A  Novel.  By  Victor 
Hcoo.     10th  thousand. 

This  is  the  first  of  the  five  parts  of  Les  Miserables. 

Competent  critics,  in  both  hemispheres,  have  pronounced  Les  Miserables  to 
be  the  most  powerful  work  of  fiction  of  the  nineteenth  century. 

Price'$2.  Fpon  the  receipt  of  the  price  we  will  forward  it  to  any  part  of 
the  Cbtifederacy.  . 

III.— COSETT  .  Part  II  of  LES  MISERABLES.  $2.  The  remaining 
three  parts  will  be  j«sned  in  one  volume. 

IV.— THE  ROYAL  APE.    A  Dramatic  Poem.    $1. 

IN  PRESS,  and  will  be  ready  July  1st : 
1.  THE  ROMANCE  OF  A  POOR  YOUNG  MAN.    By  Octavb  Fedillbt. 

This  is  a  newly  revised  and  corrected  translation  from  the  French  of  a  No- 
vel, which,  in  beauty  of  simplicity,  vies  with  the  "  Vicar  of  Wakefield." 

'.   II.— AUR(JrA  FLOYD.     By  the  author  of  "  Lady  Audisy's  Secret,"  &c. 

.,,  III.— MISIRESS  AND  MAlD.    By  Miss  Mdloch,  author  of  "  John  Hali- 
fax, Gentier^an,  &c. 
J^*"  •''^"y  of  our  books  sent  free  by  mall  on  receipt  of  price. 

Address  orders  l  o 

WEST  &  JOHNSTON, 

Publishers,  Booksellers  and  Stationers,  145  Main  Street,  Richmond. 


)  "U 


