BOOK  I 

THE    MODERN    HOSTESS 


A  Formal  Hotel  Dinner 


AS    ILLUSTRATED    BY 


OSCAR  OF   THE   WALDORF 


Courtesy  of 
HiGGiNS  &  Seit 
New  York 


IT  be  JTirgt  Course 

HUITRES-OYSTERS 

A  glance  at  the  "board"  shows  the 
water  has  been  poured,  and  the  first 
course,  consisting  of  raw  oysters,  has  been 
served,  presenting  the  appearance  shown 
in  illustration.  The  oysters  may  be  in 
the  shell  on  an  oyster  plate,  or  without 
shells  on  a  specially  made  plate.  In  either 
case  the  plate  should  be  placed  on  top  of 
a  serving  plate  of  decorated  china.  The 
oysters  should  either  be  thoroughly 
chilled,  or  served  on  cracked  ice,  and 
accompanied  with  a  bit  of  lemon. 
Horseradish  and  pepper  sauce  are  the 
proper  articles  to  serve  with  them. 


XLbe  SeconJ)  Course 

POTAGE-SOUP 

The  illustration  for  the  second  course 
shows  the  soup-plate  to  have  taken  the 
place  of  the  oyster  plate,  with  which  has 
gone  thz  oyster  fork.  The  napkin  is  in 
use,  and  the  flower  is  answering  its  pur- 
pose of  personal  adornment.  The  goblet 
of  water,  in  this  and  succeeding  illus- 
trations, remains  in  place  throughout  the 
dinner,  being  refilled  at  intervals. 


^be  G;birD  Course 

HOR.S    D'OEUViCES 
DAINTY  DISH 

may  consist  of  cold  side  dishes,  such  as 
olives,  radishes,  canapes,  caviare,  an- 
chovies, etc^  or  timbales,  croustades, 
palmettes,  mousselines,  bouchees,  eUu, 
which  are  saved  hot. 


^bc  jfourtb  Course 

POISSON— FISH 

whicli  in  this  instance  is  boiled  salmon 
and  Parisienne  potatoes,  shows  that  a 
fish  plate  has  superseded  the  soup  plate, 
the  soup  spoon  also  having  been  taken 
away.  The  fish,  if  it  is  boiled  or  fried, 
should  have  potatoes  served  with  it ;  if 
broiled  or  cooked  in  any  fancy  manner, 
serve  cucumber  salad.  The  fish  plate, 
knife,  and  fork  are  taken  away  (the 
under  dinner  plate  goes  with  them). 


^be  ififtb  Course 

eNTR.EE 

is  in  this  case  sweetbread  with  green 
peas.  There  now  remains  the  butter 
spreader,  one  knife  and  fork.  Entrees 
should  be  made  as  light  as  possible,  and 
they  should  be  made  in  a  fancy  way, 
so  as  to  avoid  any  carving. 


^be  Siitb  Course 

R.6T1- ROAST 

consists  of  the  "piece  de  resistance," 
served  on  a  single  hot  plate.  Saddles  of 
either  veal,  mutton,  lamb,  venison,  or 
antelope  may  be  used  for  this  course; 
also  turkey,  goose,  duck,  capon,  etc., 
may  be  served,  accompanied  by  one  or 
two  vegetables;  the  silver  being  relaid  for 
each  course. 


t  ^ 


(tbe  Seventh  Course 

SORBET— PUNCH 

■which  is  not  essential,  but  nevertheless  a 
pleasing  half-ivay  house  among  the 
various  stages  of  the  dinner,  is  sherbet, 
for  which  cooling  refreshment  a  sherbet 
set  is  desirable. 


Itbe  Eiobtb  Course 

GIBIER— GAME 

served  with  salad,  follows  immediately 
after  the  sherbet,  and  forms  the  eighth 
course. 

After  this  course  the  table  is  cleared 
for  the  first  time  of  all  plates,  knives  and 
forks,  leaving  only  the  goblets  before  the 
guests.  All  crumbs,  etc.,  are  carefully 
swept  away  with  a  silver  crumb  scraper 
and  tray,  and  dessert  spoon  and  fork  are 
laid  for  the  ninth  course. 


^be  IRintb  Course 

DESSERT 

introduces  the  dessert,  \vrhich,  of  course, 
is  served  according  to  the  menu.  After 
the  dessert,  plates,  forks,  and  spoons  are 
removed,  a  finger  bow^l,  partly  filled  wilh 
scented  water,  placed  on  a  plate  on  which 
is  a  doily,  is  put  before  each  guest  in  the 
proper  position.  The  guest  is  expected 
to  lift  the  bowl  and  doily  from  the  plate. 
On  the  plate  there  must  also  be  a  fruit 
knife  and  nut  pick  (if  they  are  in  the 
menu). 


n;be  XLcntb  Course 

CAFt— COFFEE 

consists  simply  of  black  coffee  in  small 
after-dinner  cups;  cheese,  if  served,  ac- 
companies this  course. 


ConsoUbateb  Xibtav^  of 

flDobetn  Cooking 
anb  Ibousebolb  IRecipes 


CHRISTINE   TERHUNE    HERRICK 

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

Author  of  "The  Little  Dinner,"    "  The  Chafing-Dish  Supper,"  etc., 
and  associate  author  with 

MARION  HARLAND 


A    LIST    OF    CONTRIBUTORS    WHICH    INCLUDES    MANY    OF 

THE   FAMOUS  CHEFS  AND  COOKING  EXPERTS 

OF  THE   UNITED  STATES 


VOL.  I. 


"K,  3.  Bobmer  Compani? 
1904 


Copyright,  1904 
By  R.  J.  BODMER 


[    MCMHOH    COMPANY    PflEW 


CONTENTS 


PASB 
1 


The  Formal  Dinner 

The  Informal,  Dinner ^^ 

The  Formal  Luncheon ^^ 

The  Informal  Luncheon *1 

42 
Suppers         

Chafing-dish  Suppers 4" 

4Q 

Breakfasts 

Afternoon  Teas         

Table  Manners ^^ 

Introductions 

Cards ^^ 

Calls ^^^ 

Balls ^^^ 

Eeceptions 

Musicales  and  Dramatics 187 

Theatre  Parties 1^^ 

Garden  Parties 204 

Visiting  and  House  Parties 209 


Weddings ^^ 

Correspondence ^^ 


THE  BEGINNING  OF  THE  BOOK 

You  will  tell  me  you  have  a  cook-book  already,  my  friend 
the  housekeeper. 

Perliaps  you  have  bought  the  Consolidated  Library  of 
Modern  Cooking,  because  the  five  handsome  volumes  would 
look  so  attractive  on  your  shelves.  But  you  do  not  think 
it  will  ever  be  of  much  real  service  to  you?  The  cook-book 
you  cherish  is  a  fat,  heavy  book,  to  be  sure,  and  not  so 
handy  as  these  volumes,  but  you  think  it  contains  every- 
thing you  need  ? 

I  don't  think  so.  More  than  that,  I  believe  I  can  show 
you  several  ways  that  have  not  occurred  to  you  in  which 
the  Library  can  be  of  decided  value. 

Look  at  the  opening  volume,  in  the  first  place— The  Mod- 
ern Hostess.  You  know  how  often  you  are  puzzled  to  carry 
out  your  liospitable  intentions.  You  would  like  to  give  a 
dinner,  or  a  tea,  or  a  little  evening  party ;  but  you  don't 
know  just  how  to  do  it.  You  don't  wish  to  put  the  matter 
into  the  hands  of  a  professional,  and  yet  you  dread  under- 
taking it  alone  and  perhaps  stamping  yourself  a  "  back 
number." 

My  dear  woman,  do  you  think  you  are  alone  in  this? 
The  average  American  wife  begins  her  household  life  on  a 
modest  scale,  and  when  she  arrives  at  the  point  where  she 
can  entertain  with  more  liberality  she  does  not  know  just 
how  to  set  about  it.  It  was  to  meet  that  want  that  this 
volume  was  designed.  Here  you  can  learn  how  to  conduct 
any  form  of  hospitality,  from  a  house  party  to  an  after- 
noon tea,  and  tlie  instructions  discuss  not  only  every  item 
of  each  one,  from  writing  the  invitations  to  speeding  the 
parting  guest,  but  consider  also  the  small  as  well  as  the 
large  purse. 

There  is  another  unusual  feature  in  this  first  volume. 
Some  of  us  may  not  be  hostesses,  but  sooner  or  later  all  of 
us  are  likely  to  be  guests.     That  contingency  is  covered, 


THE  BEGINNING  OF  THE  BOOK 


too.  Thrown  in,  to  make  good  measure,  so  to  speak,  are 
chapters  on  the  etiquette  of  calls  and  correspondence  and 
cards— all  the  details  connected  with  social  life.  Now  do 
you  see  why  the  first  volume  is  to  be  of  use  to  you? 

But  the  Librai-y  is  on  cookery?  I  am  coming'  to  that. 
It  is  very  much  on  cookery.  The  majority  of  cook-books 
maybe  roughly  divided  into  two  classes:  the  books  that 
teach  how  to  cook — very  few  of  these — and  the  books  that 
teach  what  to  cook.  The  trouble  is  that  most  persons  ai-e 
told  what  to  cook  without  being  taught  how  it  is  to  be  done. 
That  difficulty  has  been  met  and  conquered  here  by  devot- 
ing a  volume  to  cooking  lessons  which  will  ground  any 
unskilled  housekeeper  in  the  rudiments  and  lead  her  by 
easy  stages  to  the  point  where  she  can  achieve  the  elaborate 
di.shes  described  in  the  later  volumes. 

There  are  three  volumes  of  recipes,  besides  the  one  on 
cooking-school  work.  But  the  fifth  volume  introduces  an 
innovation  in  cook-books  by  being  prepared  with  an  espe- 
cial view  to  the  tastes  of  the  man  of  the  house. 

Do  you  think,  dear  madam,  that  he  has  no  interest  in 
cook-books?    He  will  be  interested  in  this  one! 

Look  at  it  for  a  moment.  Most  men  who  know  anything 
of  cookery  rather  fancy  themselves  as  managers  of  a  chaf- 
ing-dish. Here  are  chafing-dish  recipes  that  will  foster  the 
pleasing  vanity.     Show  him  these! 

Look  a  little  further.  Observe  the  directions  for  serving 
wines,  liqueurs,  etc.  Your  lord  and  master  may  think 
himself  a  judge  in  this  line,  but  he  will  be  interested  in  the 
new  features  presented  here,  in  the  histories  of  the  differ- 
ent wines,  in  the  instructions  as  to  the  times  and  conditions 
in  which  they  should  be  served,  in  the  toasts  that  may  be 
offered  with  them.  Commend  this  section  to  his  study,  and 
you  will  bless  the  foresight  which  put  all  this  special  infor- 
mation into  one  volume,  and  so  permitted  you  a  chance  at 
the  rest  of  the  library. 

You  see  now  how  it  is  of  value,  do  you  not?  G«t  into 
the  habit  of  turning  to  it  in  emergencies,  and  don't  look 
upon  it  as  too  good  for  daily  service.  Only  by  making  it 
your  constant  companion  can  you  learn  all  the  Library 
may  do  for  you  in  saving  you  thought  and  labor. 

Christine  Tkrhune  Herrick 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER 

In  point  of  dignity  and  importance  the  for- 
mal dinner  stands  at  the  head  of  modern  social 
entertainments.  No  other  form  of  entertain- 
ment is  governed  by  rules  so  inflexible,  or  pre- 
sents to  the  novice  such  a  bewildering  array  of 
difficulties  in  its  conduct.  If,  however,  in  pre- 
paring to  give  a  formal  dinner,  it  is  remem- 
bered that  the  purely  practical  details  are  to 
be  carried  out  according  to  the  strict  rules  of 
custom,  and  must  not  be  varied  to  suit  the  taste 
or  convenience  of  the  hostess,  the  undertaking 
becomes  at  once  a  less  serious  problem.  It  is 
in  her  choice  of  the  viands,  the  table  decora- 
tions, the  selection  of  guests,  and  in  her  general 
tactfulness,  that  opportunity  is  offered  to 
achieve  distinction  as  a  giver  of  successful 
dinners. 

The  term  "  formal  dinner  "  seems  in  the 
minds  of  many  people  to  be  synonymous  with 
lavishness  and  display,  whereas  simplicity — 
not  the  simplicity  of  frugality,  but  the  simple 
dignity  and  grace  of  good  taste — should  be  the 
keynote  of  the  "  company  "  dinner  as  well  as 
that  of  a  less  ceremonious  entertainment.    The 


THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


experienced  hostess  will  introduce  no  novelties 
at  her  dinners;  no  chafing-dish  courses  or 
"  surprises  "  of  any  kind.  She  will  not  have 
tawdry  or  over-elaborate  menu  ur  dinner  cards, 
and,  above  all,  will  not  place  beside  the  plate 
of  each  guest  a  "  souvenir  "  of  the  occasion, 
which  one  "authority"  informs  his  readers 
may  consist  of  jewelry,  purses,  and  knick- 
knacks  of  plush  or  satin,  the  latter  "  of  home 
manufacture,  if  desirable."  As  an  appetizer  a 
plush  handkerchief  case  is  scarcely  to  be  com- 
mended; and  really  the  only  souvenir  permis- 
sible at  a  dinner  is  the  flower  or  boutonniere 
sometimes  placed  at  each  cover,  or  the  dainty 
name  card.  Expensive  gifts  to  one's  guests 
are  never  in  good  taste,  though  the  custom  of 
giving  such  things  has  prevailed  to  a  consider- 
able extent  in  certain  forms  of  entertainment. 
Cotillon  favors,  for  instance,  were  often  expen- 
sive; also  the  prizes  offered  at  card  parties; 
but  the  tendency  now,  where  favors,  souvenirs, 
or  prizes  are  to  be  given,  is  to  present  articles 
of  small  intrinsic  value,  but  of  especial  dainti- 
ness or  oddity. 

To  return,  however,  to  the  subject,  it  would 
be  advisable  when  contemplating  the  giving  of 
a  large  and  ceremonious  dinner  to  consider 
well  what  it  means  in  the  way  of  expense  and 
of  mental  and  bodily  exertion.     Unless  one's 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER 


income  is  large  and  his  establishment  equipped 
in  accordance,  it  would  be  better  not  to  attempt 
a  dinner  of  ceremony.  To  be  compelled  to  hire 
extra  servants  for  the  occasion,  or  extra  dishes, 
or  silver,  is  to  stamp  the  entertainment  at  the 
start  with  the  mark  of  bad  taste.  Better  far 
to  give  a  small  informal  dinner,  with  the  means 
at  hand,  however  limited,  than  to  undertake  an 
elaborate  affair  which  will  not  only  seriously 
cripple  one's  bank  account,  but  which  must  in- 
evitably fall  short  of  the  perfection  necessary 
to  successful  achievement. 

INVITATIONS 

Invitations  to  a  formal  dinner  are,  of  course, 
correspondingly  formal.  It  is  the  decree  of 
custom  that  they  should  be  sent  out  at  least  two 
weeks  in  advance  of  the  selected  date,  and  that 
they  must  be  answered  promptly;  if  possible, 
within  twenty-four  hours.  To  postpone  from 
day  to  day  the  sending  of  a  reply  to  a  dinner 
invitation  is  a  serious  breach  of  good  manners, 
inasmuch  as  such  delay  causes  the  hostess  great 
mental  disturbance  and  serious  inconvenience. 
Should  a  nof  e  of  regrets  reach  her  promptly,  she 
has  time  to  invite  another  guest  to  fill  the  vacant 
place;  but  if  the  refusal  comes  at  the  eleventh 
hour  she  is  forced  into  a  position  from  which 
any  kindly,  tactful  woman  may  well  shrink ;  for 


THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


she  is  uow  compelled  to  find  a  "  stop-gap,"  and 
this  means  an  invitation  sent  but  a  few  days 
before  the  dinner.  The  recipient  of  such  an  in- 
vitation to  a  formal  entertainment  knows  well 
that  he  is  a  "  second  choice,"  and  naturally 
feels  a  bit  resentful.  If  it  becomes  necessary 
to  fill  a  vacancy  on  short  notice  the  wise  hostess 
will  turn  frankly  to  some  tried  and  good- 
natured  friend,  who  is  sufficiently  a  man  or 
woman  of  the  world  to  understand  the  exigen- 
cies of  dinner-giviug  and  who  will  cheerfully 
rally  to  her  assistance  and  do  all  possible  to 
help  to  save  the  day.  But  no  hostess  should  be 
placed  in  a  position  so  awkward  through  the 
negligence  of  a  guest  whom  she  has  honored 
by  an  invitation.  The  object  in  sending  dinner 
invitations  a  fortnight  or  longer  in  advance  is 
twofold.  In  the  height  of  the  social  season 
especially,  society  people  have  many  engage- 
ments, to  fill,  and  their  time  is  often  bespoken 
for  days  ahead.  In  order,  therefore,  to  secure 
the  company  of  those  one  wants  particularly  to 
bring  together,  it  is  necessary  to  give  them 
ample  notice. 

If  the  invited  guests  are  familiar  with  the 
rules  of  etiquette,  each  one  i-esponds  at  once 
to  his  or  her  im-itation.  In  replying,  the 
answer  given  must  be  a  definite  "  Yes  "  or 
'»  No  "—that  is,  the  invitation  must  be  either 


The  formal  dinner 


accepted  or  declined;  there  is  no  middle  posi- 
tion on  this  point ;  there  must  be  no  vacillating, 
no  conditions  expressed.  An  acceptance  must 
not  be  made  dependent  upon  personal  circum- 
stances that  are  likely  to  arise  in  the  interim— 
this  would  be  the  height  of  rudeness— and 
finally,  it  is  always  best  to  accept  a  dinner  in- 
vitation unless  one  has  good  and  sufficient  rea- 
sons for  declining  it.  The  two  objects,  then,  in 
sending  invitations  at  least  two  weeks  in  ad- 
vance are :  first,  to  secure  the  guests  you  most 
desire,  and  second,  to  have  a  reasonable  length 
of  time,  in  case  of  a  note  of  regrets,  to  secure 
another  guest. 

Invitations  to  a  formal  dinner  are  usually  en- 
graved upon  large,  square,  white  cards,  but  it 
is  quite  proper  for  the  hostess  to  write  her  in- 
vitations upon  note  paper — using  not  more 
than  the  first  page,  and  following  the  formal 
wording  of  the  engraved  card.  If  it  is  decided 
to  use  the  latter,  it  is  best  to  consult  a  reliable 
stationer  regarding  the  details  of  shape,  size, 
type,  etc.  Those  dwelling  in  the  country  or 
small  towns  may  write  to  a  leading  stationer  in 
the  nearest  city,  who  will  furnish  information 
and  attend  to  the  printing  of  the  cards.  Upon 
the  engraved  card  spaces  are  left  for  the  in- 
sertion in  handwriting  of  the  names  of  the 
guests,  the  day,  the  hour,  and  the  date.     The 


THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


usual  form  of  invitation,  whether  written  or  en- 
graved, is  as  follows: 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  James  Angell 

request  the  pleasure  of 


company  at  dinner 

on evening 

at o'clock. 

79  Proipeet  Street. 

U  Holme*  Avenue, 
March  31»<,  19—. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Andrew  White 

accept  with  pleasure 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  James  Angell's 

invitation  to  dinner  on 

Tuesday  evening,  April  tenth, 

at  eight  o'clock. 

In  eases  of  "  regrets  "  the  form  will  be: 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Andrew  White 

regret  that  their  departure  from  town 

prevents  their  acceptance  of 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  James  Ang ell's 

kind  invitation  to  dinner  on 

Tuesday  evening,  April  tenth, 

at  eight  o'clock. 

H  Holmti  Atenut, 
March  ZUt,  19—. 

An  invitation  sent  to  a  man  and  wife  is  ad- 
dressed to  both ;  if  another  member  of  the  fam- 
ily or  a  guest  of  the  house  is  invited,  he  or  she 
receives  a  separate  card.  An  answer,  whether 
conveying  regrets  or  an  acceptance,  is  invari- 
ably addressed  to  the  hostess,  not  to  herself  and 
husband. 

The  letters  R.  S.  V.  P.  {Repondez,  s'il  vous 
plait,  which  is  a  French  expression  meaning 
"  Answer,  if  you  please  ")  are  no  longer  used 
upon  dinner  invitations.  It  is  not  in  good  taste 
to  remind  your  invited  guests  that  they  must 
not  be  remiss  in  their  manners;  furthermore, 
the  words  are  unpleasantly  suggestive  of  over- 
anxiety  on  the  part  of  the  hostess  as  to  the 
number  of  oysters  and  ices  to  be  provided. 


8  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

In  giving  a  dinner  in  honor  of  a  special  guest, 
the  hostess  may  write  at  the  bottom  of  the  en- 
graved card,  or  add  to  her  written  invitation, 
the  words,  "  To  meet  Mr.  and  Mrs.  So-and-So." 
Or  small  cards  may  be  engraved  with  these 
words  and  inclosed  with  the  invitation. 

In  case  it  becomes  necessary  to  postpone  the 
date  of  a  dinner  or  to  cancel  the  invitations 
thereto,  an  explanatory  note  must  be  sent  by 
messenger  or  by  Special  deliVefy  to  such  invited 
guest.  Such  notes  are  expressed  in  the  third 
person  and  may  read  as  follows : 

Mr:  and  Mrs.  James  Angell  regret  exceed- 
ingly that  a  sudden  and  severe  illness  in  their 
family  necessitates  the  indefinite  postponement 
of  their  dinner  arranged  for  the  10th  inst. 

To  be  compelled  to  break  a  dinner  engage- 
ment—to  cancel  one's  acceptance  of  an  invita- 
tion—is unfortunate;  but  unexpected  circum- 
stances sometimes  afise  which  I'ender  a  note  of 
tvithdrawal  necessary.  In  this  case  a  note  of 
explanation,  written  in  less  formal  manner  than 
are  the  invitation  and  its  answer,  must  be  des- 
patched to  the  hostess  in  the  quickest  way  pos- 
sible. The  excuse  given  for  breaking  the  en- 
gagement must  be  distinctly  stated,  and  the  re- 
grets should  be  sincerely  but  not  extravagantly 
expressed.    One  might  say,  for  instance : 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER 


14  Holme)  Avenue, 

April  4th,  19—. 

My  Deak  Mbs.  Angell  : 

I  regret  to  say  that  we  are  by  unforeseen  cir- 
cumstances prevented  from  dining  with  you 
next  Tuesday.  Mr.  White  met  with  an  acci- 
dent resulting  in  a  severe  sprain,  which  makes 
it  impossible  for  him  to  walk.  I  assure  you 
that  this  unpleasant  circumstance  and  its  at- 
tending pain  to  Mr.  White  are  hardly  more 
severe  than  our  disappointment  at  relinquish- 
ing this  opportunity  of  enjoying  your  hospi- 
tality. 

With  many  regrets,  I  am. 

Faithfully  yours, 

Agnes  WHrrE, 

THE  GUESTS 

The  success  of  a  dinner,  formal  or  otherwise, 
depends  so  largely  upon  the  people  brought  to- 
gether to  enjoy  it,  that  the  hostess  must  use 
the  utmost  care  in  choosing  the  guests.  She 
will  not  select  them  at  random  from  her  circle 
of  friends,  with  the  unpleasant  conviction  that 
she  must  invite  this  one  or  that  in  order  to 
' '  repay  ' '  certain  social  obligations ;  but  she 
will  keep  in  mind  that  her  first  object  is  to  give 
the  most  enjoyment  possible  to  each  guest  at 
her  table,  and  that  this  can  be  accomplished 


THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


only  by  bringing  together  congenial  spirits,  or 
at  least  by  inviting  no  one  who  through  dul- 
ness,  egotism,  or  any  other  failing  will  neither 
have  a  good  time  himself  nor  contribute  to  the 
enjoyment  of  others.  The  circle  should  not  be 
marred  by  the  presence  of  even  one  guest  of 
this  kind.  If  the  hostess  must  give  a  dinner  to 
return  social  obligations,  that  is  a  different 
affair,  and  perhaps  a  more  difficult  one  to 
manage  with  entire  success ;  but  we  are  speak- 
ing now  of  the  dinner  in  which  full  play  is  al- 
lowed for  the  best  effort. 

Sk,  eight,  or  twelve  are  the  best  number  of 
guests  for  a  dinner,  though  as  many  more  may 
be  entertained  as  the  dining-room  will  com- 
fortably accommodate.  The  table,  above  all 
things,  should  never  be  crowded.  Bodily  and 
mental  comfort  and  ease  are  prime  requisites 
for  the  enjoyment  of  a  good  dinner. 

It  is  well  to  invite  equal  numbers  of  men  and 
women;  and  in  seating  the  guests  at  table  to 
see  that  people  of  like  tastes  are  placed  to- 
gether. Husbands  and  wives  or  near  relatives 
should,  of  course,  be  separated.  It  is  not  to  be 
expected  that  every  guest  will  prove  a  brilliant 
talker;  indeed,  a  person  who  is  inclined  to 
monopolize  the  attention  of  the  entire  table  by 
his  discourse  is  not  as  a  rule  a  desirable  guest ; 
he  frequently  bores  one  or  another  of  those 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER 


present,  who  out  of  politeness  lends  a  perfunc- 
tory ear  to  his  "  flow  of  language,"  but  who 
would  much  prefer  to  chat  quietly  with  his  own 
immediate  neighbor.  But,  of  course,  the  ar- 
rangement of  the  guests  is  a  matter  that  the 
hostess  can  best  decide  for  herself  from  her  in- 
timate knowledge  of  the  characteristics  of  each 
one  invited.  If  a  guest  of  special  importance 
has  been  invited, — a  traveller,  an  author,  or  a 
well-known  painter, — everyone  will  be  glad  to 
hear  him  talk,  and  his  hostess  is  fortunate  if  he 
proves  to  be  brilliant  and  entertaining.  As  to 
the  duties  of  guests  themselves,  it  need  only 
be  said  that  each  one  should  remember  that  the 
success  of  the  dinner  depends  in  a  measure 
upon  himself.  He  is  not  there  simply  to  be  fed 
and  amused,  but  to  do  the  best  in  his  power  to 
add  to  the  enjoyment  of  his  fellow  guests  and 
to  the  comfort  and  ease  of  mind  of  his  hostess. 
She  will  be  grateful  to  him  for  his  pleasant  at- 
tentions to  her  other  guests,  and  especially  to 
anyone  among  them  who  does  not  seem  to  be 
wholly  at  ease,  or  who  needs  drawing  out.  Such 
a  guest  is  bound  to  be  found  occasionally,  even 
in  a  carefully  selected  dinner  group. 

The  hostess  herself  must  present  to  her 
guests  a  face  of  imperturbable  serenity.  She 
must  seem  as  free  from  anxiety  as  the  cheer- 
fulest  man  or  woman  at  her  board,  and  under 


12  THE  B<[ODERN  HOSTESS 

no  circumstances  should  she  turn  a  troubled 
glance  on  her  servants  or  in  the  direction  of 
pantry  or  kitchen.  No  difference  what  disas- 
ter occurs  or  threatens  to  occur,  she  must 
«'  make  believe  "  it  is  no  concern  of  hers  what- 
ever—must keep  a  smooth  brow,  an  unshaken 
voice,  and  a  steady  hand.  The  host,  at  the 
other  end  of  the  table,  is  equally  unconscious 
of  the  domestic  machinery  revolving  noiselessly 
about  him. 

At  large  dinners  it  is  customary  to  place  in 
the  gentlemen's  dressing-room  a  tray  on  which 
small  envelopes  are  placed,  one  addressed  to 
each  of  the^men  and  containing  a  card  bearing 
the  name  of  the  lady  who  is  to  be  his  dinner 
partner.  When  this  plan  is  not  followed  the 
hostess  simply  announces  to  each  man  the  name 
of  the  lady  who  has  been  assigned  to  his  care ; 
and  if  she  is  a  stranger  to  him,  he  is  presented 
to  her  before  dinner  is  announced.  It  is  the 
butler's  duty  to  note  the  arrival  of  the  guests, 
to  "  keep  tab  "  on  them,  figuratively  speaking, 
so  that  when  all  are  assembled  in  the  drawing- 
room  he  may  announce  the  dinner;  and  both 
dinner  and  guests,  by  the  way,  should  be  exactly 
on  time. 

Upon  their  arrival,  the  guests  are  directed 
to  the  dressing-rooms,  and  thence  descend  to 
the  drawing-room.    At  the  proper  moment  the 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER 


butler  enters  the  drawing-room  and  stands  just 
within  the  door ;  the  hostess,  having  this  detail 
in  mind,  will  turn  her  face  toward  him,  thus 
giving  him  an  opportunity  to  say  very  quietly, 
"  Dinner  is  served,"  or  simply  to  incline  his 
head  slightly.  He  then  bows  respectfully  and 
leaves  the  room  without  turning  his  back  upon 
the  company.  The  host  now  rises  and  offers 
his  arm  to  the  lady  who  is  to  sit  at  his  right, 
usually  a  woman  of  especial  distinction  or  one 
who  for  some  reason  is  to  be  thus  honored. 
The  other  gentlemen  follow  with  the  ladies  as- 
signed to  them,  and  the  hostess  comes  last  with 
the  man  who  is  to  sit  at  her  right.  If  more 
ladies  than  gentlemen  are  present,  the  hostess 
must  enter  the  dining-room  without  an  escort, 
as  it  would  not  be  in  good  form  for  her  to  ap- 
propriate one  of  the  few  men  present  while  a 
woman  guest  was  without  an  escort. 

THK   MENU 

Some  writers  upon  the  subject  of  dinner- 
giving  contend  that  the  success  of  a  dinner  de- 
pends entirely  upon  the  guests— that  the  feast 
of  reason  and  flow  of  soul  is  the  thing — and  that 
the  matter  of  the  menu  is  purely  secondary. 
While  no  one  will  dispute  the  importance  of 
having  a  brilliant  circle  of  guests  at  one's  en- 
tertainment, it  is  safe  to  say  that  the  brilliance 


THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


of  those  same  guests   would  be  considerably 
dimmed  were  they  compelled  to  sharpen  their 
wits  on  poorly  selected,  poorly  cooked  food  and 
bad  wines.    The  first  step,  then,  after  settling 
upon  the  date  of  the  dinner  and  selecting  the 
guests,  is  to  make  a  study  of  the  provision  mar- 
ket. The  great  majority  of  food  articles  are  "  in 
season  "  during  certain  parts  of  the  year.  Many 
of  them  can  be  found  in  the  market  throughout 
the  year,  but  when  out  of  season  are  of  forced 
cultivation  and  not  nearly  so  palatable.     They 
are  also  much  higher  priced,  which   to   some 
people  is  an  item  worth  considering.     Nature 
knew  what  she  was  about  when  she  assigned  to 
each  animal  and  vegetable  food  its  proper  sea- 
son, and  any  attempt  on  the  part  of  butcher, 
gardener,  or  cook  to  improve  upon  her  scheme 
cannot  but  result  in  failure.     Therefore,  an  es- 
sential  consideration    in   arranging    a    dinner 
menu  is  to  select  from  the  list  of  food  articles 
those  that  are  in  season— in  other  words,  at 
their  very  best.     In  another  part  of  this  work' 
will  be  found  tables  giving  accurately  the  "  sea- 
sons "  for  fish,  meat,  fruits,  and  vegetables. 

The  experienced  hostess  will,  of  course,  have 
menus  galore  at  her  finger-tips.  So  many  good 
dinners  has  she  given  and  eaten  that  the  selec- 
tion of  the  viands  for  another  dinner  need  cost 
her  no  great  effort;  but  the  woman  inexperi- 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER 


enced  in  entertaining  on  a  large  scale  will  be 
appalled  at  the  serious  problem  of  making  up 
her  first  few  menus.  They  look  so  simple — 
"  just  oysters  or  clams,  you  know,  and  soup, 
and  some  kind  of  meat,  and  game  and  salad, 
and  so  on."  It  is  easy  to  generalize;  the 
trouble  doesn't  really  begin  until  one  tries  to 
particularize—"  What  kind  of  soup  must  I 
have!  What  meat  is  best?  What  entrees  are 
proper?  What  game  is  seasonable?  and  what 
about  salads  and  desserts?  "  It  is  indeed  be- 
wildering. The  following  points,  however,  in 
conjunction  with  a  careful  study  of  the  tables 
referred  to,  will  be  found  very  helpful : 

A  dinner  of  ceremony  will  consist  usually  of 
eight  or  more  courses.  These  should  be  chosen 
not  only  with  an  eye  to  the  palatableness  of 
each,  but  with  a  view  to  the  good  balance  and 
general  harmony  of  the  meal  throughout.  Do 
not  repeat  articles  in  different  parts  of  the 
dinner;  for  instance,  do  not  serve  oysters  in 
two  or  three  ways,  however  different  in  prep- 
aration; nor  lobsters,  nor  cheese,  etc.  If  you 
have  more  than  one  entree,  let  them  vary  in 
nature  as  much  as  possible. 

The  outline  of  the  course  dinner  is  almost 
invariably  as  follows:  1,  oysters;  or,  if  out  of 
season,  some  other  appetizer;  2,  soup;  3,  fish; 
4,  entree ;  5,  roast ;  G,  game ;  7,  salad ;  8,  dessert. 


THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


This  may  be  varied  by  the  introduction  of  en- 
trees, sherbets,  etc.,  thus  increasing  the  num- 
ber of  courses. 

Oysters  are  seasonable  in  each  month  in 
which  the  letter  "  E  "  occurs.  When  not  in 
season  their  place  upon  the  bill  of  fare  is  usu- 
ally filled  by  the  Little  Neck  clam.  Sis  oysters, 
or  about  eight  clams,  are  served  to  each  guest. 
Small  plates  especially  for  the  purpose  are  filled 
with  shaved  ice,  upon  which  the  moUusks  in  the 
half-shell  are  symmetrically  arranged.  A  quar- 
ter of  a  fine  juicy  lemon  is  placed  in  the  centre 
of  each  plate.  To  accompany  this  course,  the 
waiter  passes  small  sandwiches  of  brown  or  gra- 
ham bread,  or  dainty  crackers.  The  proper 
condiments  are  salt,  pepper,  cayenne  pepper, 
Tabasco  sauce,  and  horseradish.  Sauterne  is 
the  wine  to  be  served.  A  clear  soup  is  usually 
served  at  a  formal  dinner.  If  two  soups  are 
prepai-ed  one  should  be  thick— a  cream,  puree, 
or  bisque.  The  waiter  asks  the  guest  which  he 
prefers.  Soup  plates  should  be  about  ton 
inches  in  diameter;  in  serving,  a  scant  ladleful 
is  the  portion  of  each  guest.  To  fill  a  soup 
plate  too  generously  is  in  bad  taste.  Toasted 
crackers  may  be  served  with  clear  soup,  and 
croutons  with  a  thick  soup.  Neither  crackers 
nor  croutons  should  be  placed  in  the  soup  be- 
fore it  is  served,  as  they  lose  their  crispness; 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER 


they  are  passed  so  that  the  guests  may  help 
themselves.     Sherry  accompanies  the  soup. 

It  is  usual  to  serve  potatoes  with  boiled  or 
fried  fish,  and  cucumber  salad  with  fish  that  is 
broiled  or  prepared  in  some  fancy  style.  Cress, 
tomatoes,  and  radishes  may  also  be  served  with 
fish.  A  salad,  dressed  with  oil,  should  not  be 
placed  directly  upon  the  hot  fish-plates,  but  upon 
a  leaf  of  cold,  crisp  lettuce ;  or  it  may  be  served 
in  separate  dishes  at  the  left  of  each  cover. 
Olives  and  salted  almonds  are  passed  with  this 
course  and  Rhine  wine  served. 

Entrees  are  dainty  dishes  so  made  as  to  re- 
quire little  or  no  carving;  they  are  served  be- 
tween the  principal  courses,  and  include  the 
various  croquettes,  rissoles,  patties,  and  tim- 
bales. 

One  entree,  following  the  fish,  is  sufficient 
upon  a  menu,  but  it  is  quite  allowable  to  serve 
two  or  more.  If  two  entrees  are  prepared,  let 
the  second  be  a  fritter  or  compote  of  some  sort. 
Serve  claret. 

The  roast,  or  piece  de  resistance,  as  it  is 
termed,  with  its  accompaniment  of  vegetables, 
constitutes  the  substantial  course  of  the  repast. 
Roast  sirloin  of  beef,  or  saddles  of  mutton, 
lamb,  veal,  or  venison  may  be  chosen.  Roast 
poultry — turkey,  goose,  duck,  etc.— is  equally 
desirable.     Potatoes  with  one  other  vegetable 


THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


ai'e  usually  served;  or  the  potatoes  may  be 
omitted  and  two  other  vegetables  prepared. 
The  proper  wine  is  champagne. 

Following  the  roast  a  sherbet  is  served. 
This,  however,  is  not  assigned  a  special  head- 
ing on  printed  or  written  menus,  as  it  is  simply 
a  light  spur  to  the  appetite  consisting  of  a 
dainty  frozen  punch  served  in  small  glasses. 

With  game  it  is  usual  to  serve  a  vegetable 
salad.  This  is  not  arbitrary,  however,  and  the 
salad  may  follow  as  a  separate  course  with 
cheese  and  ci-ackers.  Currant  jelly,  or  some 
other  appropriate  fruit  relish,  is  served  with 
game.     The  wine  should  be  Burgundy. 

Serve  only  a  vegetable  salad  at  dinner.  If 
there  is  a  game  course  the  salad  usually  accom- 
panies it ;  should  game  not  be  served,  the  salad, 
with  crackers  and  cheese  or  some  other  cheese 
prei:>aration,  forms  a  course  in  itself.  If  the 
salad  and  game  are  served  as  a  single  course, 
it  is  sometimes  followed  by  a  hot  cheese  course. 

For  a  formal  dinner,  two  desserts  are  usually 
prepared,  the  first  consisting  of  a  hot  or  cold 
sweet  dish,  such  as  pudding,  fritters,  souffles, 
etc.,  to  be  followed  by  some  frozen  dainty,  or- 
dinarily an  ice  cream.     Champagne  is  served. 

In  preparing  for  a  large  dinner,  the  menu 
should  be  in  the  hands  of  the  cook  three  or  four 
days  in  advance;  a  duplicate  menu  should  be 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER 


placed  iu  the  pantry  for  the  convenience  of  the 
butler,  who  must  needs  be  perfectly  familiar 
with  the  details  of  the  dinner  if  he  is  to  serve 
it  properly. 

THE  TABLE 

While  certain  rules  govern  the  arrangement 
or  ' '  setting  ' '  of  the  table  for  a  formal  dinner, 
there  is  permissible  a  slight  variation  in  some 
of  the  minor  points,  and,  at  the  same  time, 
ample  opportunity  is  offered  for  the  display  of 
individual  taste  in  the  matter  of  decoration, 
lighting,  etc.  Fine  linen,  beautiful  glass,  china, 
and  silver  constitute  "  half  the  battle,"  but 
much  depends  also  upon  the  arrangement  of 
flowers,  and  the  candles,  lamps,  or  whatever 
artificial  light  is  used. 

To  begin  with,  the  table,  whatever  its  shape, 
is  covered  with  a  "  silence  cloth,"  which  is  the 
attractive  way  of  designating  the  Canton-flannel 
or  felt  cover  placed  beneath  the  table-cloth 
proper.  The  object  of  this  is  too  obvious  to 
need  explanation;  but  it  may  be  mentioned  here 
that  the  less  noise — i.  e.,  rattling  of  knives 
and  forks  and  dishes,  or  the  voices  of  servants 
in  the  pantry,  or  the  sound  of  their  footsteps — 
accompanying  a  dinner,  the  more  impressive 
and  satisfactory  will  this  entertainment  prove. 
Over  the  silence  cloth  is  spread  the  finest 
damask  table-cloth  that  can  be  afforded.     This 


20  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

cloth  is  laundered  witlaout  starch  and  folded 
loosely  without  creasing — or,  better  still,  rolled 
upon  a  wooden  roller  until  it  is  needed.  Nap- 
kins also  are  without  starch.  The  place  of 
each  guest,  the  plate,  and  accessories  are  called 
a  cover.  For  each  cover  allow  as  much  space 
as  the  table  will  permit— not  less  than  twenty- 
inches,  but  more  if  possible— and  in  the  exact 
centre  of  this  space  place  what  is  called  the 
service  plate.  This  plate  is  removed  iisually 
when  the  fish  is  served ;  but  it  is  also  correct  to 
have  a  service  plate  in  front  of  the  guest 
throughout  the  meal  until  the  table  is  cleared 
for  dessert.  This  is  troublesome,  however,  as 
it  means  a  constant  renewal  of  the  plate,  and 
many  hostesses  elect  to  dispense  with  it  early 
in  the  meal. 

At  the  right  of  the  service  plate  lay  such 
knives  as  are  to  be  used  before  dessert.  These 
will  be  placed  in  the  order  in  which  they  will 
be  needed — the  first  one  on  the  right — and  the 
sharp  edge  of  each  is  turned  toward  the  plate. 
To  the  right  of  the  knives  place  the  soup  spoon, 
bowl  upward;  and  outside  of  this  the  small 
oyster  fork.  At  the  left  of  the  service  plate 
arrange  all  forks  to  be  used  before  dessert. 
These  lie  prongs  upward,  and,  like  the  knives, 
ia  the  order  of  their  use.  On  the  outside  the 
fish  fork,  next  an  entree  fork;  then  that  used 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER 


for  the  roast.  The  salad  or  game  fork  lies 
next  to  the  plate.  The  roast  fork  is  larger 
than  the  others. 

If  a  sherbet  spoon  is  placed  upon  the  table 
it  lies  next  to  the  oyster  fork;  but  spoons  are 
not  so  popular  as  they  once  were,  and  the 
spoons  for  a  sherbet  should  be  brought  in  upon 
the  plates  which  hold  the  sherbet  glasses. 

In  case  the  menu  includes  other  courses  re- 
quiring knives  and  forks,  it  is  better  to  place 
those  necessary  at  each  cover  at  the  time  the 
course  is  served.  They  might  be  placed  upon 
the  table  at  the  beginning,  also  the  dessert  fork 
and  spoon,  but  this  mal?es  the  display  of  silver 
somewhat  conspicuous. 

The  water  and  the  wine  glasses  are  grouped 
together.  The  former  stands  slightly  to  the 
right  of  the  upper  edge  of  the  plate.  The  wine 
glasses  are  placed  in  the  order  in  which  they 
are  used,  the  first  near  the  points  of  the  knives 
and  the  others  extending  in  a  curved  line  to 
the  water  glass. 

The  napkin,  which  should  match  the  table- 
cloth in  design  and  quality,  is  folded  four  times 
in  the  ironing,  and  lies  to  the  left  of  the  forks. 
It  is  permissible  to  lay  it  on  the  service  plate. 
At  the  dinner  it  is  folded  once  more  to  enclose 
a  roll  or  a  piece  of  bread,  which  is  eaten  with 
the  soup.     Never  strive  to  achieve  a  novelty 


22  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

in  napkin-folding.    This  is  done  only  in  hotels, 
restaurants,  cafes,  etc. 

Avoid  the  use  of  original  menu  cards;  they 
savor  of  Bohemian  feasts,  "  stag  parties,"  or 
hotel  dinners,  and  are  out  of  place  on  the  con- 
ventional table.  Dinner  cards,  each  bearing 
the  name  of  a  guest,  are  useful  in  seating  the 
company.  These  cards  are  best  without  orna- 
ment, but  it  is  permissible  to  adorn  them  with 
a  bit  of  dainty  water-color  decoration  or  the 
monogram  of  the  hostess.  No  mistake  can  be 
made,  however,  if  the  card  is  small,  of  fine  tex- 
ture, and  without  other  decoration  than  the 
written  name.  The  letter  "  E  "  or  "  L  "  may 
be  placed  in  a  corner  of  the  card  to  indicate  the 
side  of  the  table  to  which  the  guest  has  been 
assigned.  The  names  of  guests  are  sometimes 
inscribed  in  gold  or  silver  upon  the  ends  of 
broad  white  ribbons  which  lie  between  the 
covers,  and  are  connected  with  the  floral  dec- 
oration in  the  centre  of  the  table.  A  souvenir 
of  this  kind  is  used  only  for  the  ladies.  Upon 
the  whole,  it  is  better  to  omit  ribbon  adornment 
of  the  table.  In  this  connection  it  should  be 
added  that  every  piece  of  textile  fabric  used 
upon  a  dining-table  should  be  of  the  sort  that 
can  be  laundered.  Some  authorities  tell  of 
plush,  satin,  velvet,  silk,  and  ribbon  additions 
to  (he  decoration,  but  such  materials  would  bet- 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER  23 


ter  give  place  to  fine  damask,  and  embroidered 
linens. 

Another  feature  that  is  frequently  overdone 
in  the  arrangement  of  the  table  is  the  floral  dec- 
oration. It  is  possible  to  err  here  as  well  as 
in  other  directions.  Heavily-scented  flowers 
should  be  avoided ;  those  that  do  not  harmonize 
in  kind  or  color  should  not  be  grouped.  There 
are  some  flowers  that  do  not  "  light  up  "  well, 
that  lose  the  beauty  of  their  color  under  arti- 
ficial light;  others  wither  rapidly.  These 
should  not  be  used.  A  handsome  centrepiece 
is  usually  sufficient,  though  it  is  in  good  taste 
to  arrange  the  flowers  in  several  handsome 
bowls  or  in  other  low  receptacles  according  to 
the  artistic  sense  of  the  hostess.  A  little  bunch 
of  flowers,  or  a  single  handsome  blossom,  may 
be  laid  beside  each  cover. 

The  lighting  of  the  dining-room  is  another 
important  feature  of  the  dinner  occasion.  The 
ordinary  gas  chandelier,  however  handsome, 
does  not  as  a  rule  diffuse  a  light  that  is  becom- 
ing to  the  complexion,  especially  to  an  indiffer- 
ent complexion.  If  one's  guests  are  to  be  quite 
comfortable  in  mind  they  must  not  become  con- 
scious, from  looking  at  one  another,  that  they 
are  suffering  in  appearance  because  the  light 
is  unbecoming.  If  the  gas  or  electric  light 
must  be  depended  upon  to  illuminate  the  din- 


24  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

uer  table,  make  a  study  of,  or  seek  information 
upon,  the  subject  of  shading  the  burners.  The 
color  scheme  of  the  dining-room  will  have  some- 
thing to  do  with  this.  Little  silk  shades  can  be 
made  or  bought  to  fit  almost  any  kind  of  globe 
or  light-bulb,  and  as  a  rule  the  delicate  warm 
yellows  give  the  best  results.  Never  have  a 
red  light,  unless  the  idea  is  to  make  the  dinner 
party  look  like  a  group  of  Indians  holding  a 
council  of  war  about  the  camp-fire.  There  is 
no  light  so  beautiful  and  so  becoming  as  that  of 
the  was  candle.  It  takes  a  large  number,  how- 
ever, to  light  a  dining-room  sufficiently,  and 
there  must  be  handsome  accessories  in  the  way 
of  candelabras  and  shades.  In  country  homes 
fine  lamps  are  used.  The  illumination  of  a 
table  should  be,  if  possible,  from  the  sides — not 
from  above  the  heads  of  the  guests. 

It  is  in  good  taste  to  place  small  glasses  or 
silver  dishes  of  bonbons,  salted  nuts,  and  other 
relishes  upon  the  table,  but  it  is  better  to  put 
such  things  upon  a  side  table,  to  be  passed  at 
the  proper  time  by  the  waiter.  Carafes  for 
water  and  decanters  for  wine  are  also  best  on 
the  side  table. 

SERVING  THE   DINNER 

We  now  come  to  what  seems  to  the  inex- 
perienced hostess  the  most  difficult  and  compli- 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER  2S 


Cated  part  of  dinner-giving.  It  is  at  this  point 
that  she  realizes  fully  the  need  of  expert  and 
sufficient  assistance.  It  is  always  inadvisable 
to  attempt  a  large,  conventional  dinner  without 
such  help.  Almost  any  other  form  of  enter- 
tainment can  be  managed  "  somehow  "  with 
one  or  two  servants,  or  with  extra  help  hired 
for  the  occasion.  But  for  a  dinner  party  one 
needs  a  cook  of  unquestionable  skill,  a  butler 
who  understands  his  business,  one  other  good 
waiter,  and  a  helper  in  the  pantry.  The  but- 
ler, when  serving  at  dinner,  wears  a  dress  suit 
and  white  tie. 

The  more  conventional,  and,  at  the  same 
time,  the  more  convenient,  way  of  serving  a 
formal  dinner  is  to  prepare  each  individual 
plate  in  the  pantry.  That  is,  the  butler,  or 
other  head  waiter,  arranges  an  individual  por- 
tion of  each  course  upon  a  plate,  and  placing 
the  latter  on  his  tray,  which  is  held  in  the  left 
hand,  carries  it  to  the  right  of  the  guest  who  is 
to  be  served.  With  his  right  hand  he  then  puts 
the  plate  before  the  guest. 

To  begin  with,  as  soon  as  the  company  is 
seated,  the  oysters  or  clams  are  served ;  accord- 
ing to  some  writers  on  social  etiquette  these 
may  be  in  place  before  the  guests  enter  the 
dining-room,  but  it  is  in  better  form  to  bring 
them  in  afterward.    When  the  oyster  plates 


26  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

are  removed  the  soup  is  served.  If  there  are 
two  soups,  the  waiter  asks  the  guest  which  he 
prefers.  The  soup  plate  is  placed  upon  the 
service  plate,  and  when  the  soup  course  is  over 
both  plates  are  removed.  If  the  hostess  elects 
to  use  the  service  plate  throughout  the  dinner 
until  dessert,  the  tray  is  not  required  in  serv- 
ing ;  but  the  service  plate  is  changed  with  every 
course,  which  means  inconvenience  and  extra 
work  for  the  waiters.  In  removing  dishes  the 
waiter  holds  his  tray  in  the  left  hand  and  stands 
at  the  right  of  the  guest. 

In  passing  a  dish  from  which  the  guests  are 
to  help  themselves,  the  waiter  presents  it  at  the 
left  side  of  the  cover  and  holds  it  low  in  con- 
venient position  for  the  guest  to  use  his  right 
hand. 

In  serving,  the  waiters,  if  there  are  two,  usu- 
ally begin  with  the  guests  on  the  right  hand  of 
the  host  and  hostess  and  pass  in  opposite  direc- 
tions, one  ending  with  the  host,  the  other  with 
the  hostess. 

Wines  are  poured  from  the  right,  imme- 
diately after  each  course  is  served.  Informa- 
tion regarding  the  proper  use  of  wines  at  a 
course  dinner  will  be  found  on  another  page. 
The  last  course  consists  of  black  coffee  and 
cordials.  After  this  the  finger-bowls  are 
passed.      These  will  be  of  cut  glass  or  some 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER  27 

other  fine  material,  and  should  contain  a  small 
quantity  of  water.  The  water  is  sometimes 
scented  slightly  with  violet.  It  is  also  cus- 
tomary to  place  in  each  finger-bowl  a  geranium 
leaf,  or  flower,  or  a  slice  of  lemon ;  but  to  some 
people  the  use  of  a  flower  in  this  way  savors  of 
pi'ofanity.  Neither  does  the  lemon  impress 
one  as  being  altogether  suitable  for  the  pur- 
pose. The  finger-bowl  is  brought  in  upon  a 
small  dessert  plate  covered  with  a  fine  doily. 

In  some  fashionable  houses  a  cocktail  is 
served  to  the  guests  just  before  dinner  or  after 
they  are  seated  at  table. 

The  simplest  method  of  serving  a  conven- 
tional dinner  is  to  pass  the  viands  prepared  on 
their  platters  or  other  dishes  so  that  each  guest 
may  help  himself.  The  table  is  arranged  in 
every  respect  as  it  would  be  for  the  formal 
serving;  plates,  of  course,  are  put  before  the 
guests  at  the  beginning  of  each  course.  The 
butler  should  have  means  of  signalling  to  the 
cook  in  the  kitchen  to  notify  him  when  ready 
for  the  next  course.  All  dishes  should  be  re- 
moved from  the  table  very  quietly,  one  thing  at 
a  time,  and  under  no  circumstances  by  ' '  stack- 
ing "  the  plates  or  setting  one  dish  in  another. 
The  empty  dishes  are  taken  to  the  pantry  and 
thence  removed  by  an  assistant  to  the  kitchen. 
Never  permit   any   sound   of  dishwashing  to 


2i  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

reach  the  dining-room.  The  table,  when  dessert 
is  reached,  should  look  as  fresh  and  orderly  as 
when  the  guests  sat  down.  Removing  the 
crumbs  seems  to  be  a  necessary  evil,  but  let  it 
be  done  as  daintily  as  possible  by  means  of  a 
clean  napkin  and  crumb  tray. 

DINNER  NOTES 

Butter  is  not  placed  upon  the  table  at  a  for- 
mal dinner  where  the  conventionalities  are 
strictly  observed. 

When  carving  is  done  at  the  table,  a  large 
carving  napkin  should  be  in  place  before  the 
host..  This  is  removed  just  before  dessert. 
Never  place  the  meat  upon  a  platter  so  small 
as  to  hamper  the  efforts  of  the  carver.  His 
duties  are  difficult  enough  as  it  is. 

The  serving  of  wine  at  a  dinner,  formal  or 
informal,  though  customary,  is  not  compulsory. 
In  giving  a  wineless  dinner  one  breaks  no  rule 
of  etiquette  or  of  good  taste. 

Neither  is  it  in  bad  form  to  decline  wine  at 
a  dinner  if  you  do  not  wish  to  drink  it.  The 
rudeness  lies  in  making  a  display  of  your  tem- 
perance principles  by  any  conspicuous  refusal 
when  the  waiter  appears  to  serve  you. 

At  a  formal  dinner  one  need  not  feel  that  one 
must  eat  everything  set  before  one.  A  tactful 
guest  will  not,  however,  if  it  can  be  helped, 


THE  FORMAL  DINNER  29 

allow  the  hostess  to  be  worried  with  the  thought 
that  her  viands  are  not  to  his  taste.  A  little 
busy  pretence  of  eating  and  drinking  will  tide 
one  over  the  unpalatable  course  without  giving 
offence. 

When  the  dinner  is  finished,  a  guest  should 
not  fold  his  napkin.  This  implies  that  it  will 
be  used  again  without  washing.  Neither 
should  it  be  thrown  down  in  a  careless  heap. 
Take  it  by  the  centre  and  lay  it  inconspicuously 
beside  the  cover.  Napkin  rings  are  not  used 
except  in  families  of  limited  income,  where  the 
matter  of  a  fresh  napkin  for  each  member  of 
the  household,  at  every  meal,  would  mean  a 
serious  increase  in  laundry  expenses. 


30 


THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


US  O 

I  _<  a 

3—  * 

^cc  £ 
be  « 
—  Or 
00 


S'-s     O 


5  X  S 


*2        H 


■as 

3  3 


:^ 


<e    .  a- 
§02.=  . 

m 


«  b£i[ 


03 


O 


«    .  —    ■  ©    .    . 

OS'S  S<t3 


cga 


©CO  "OO 


o  w 


3    4>   OO 
fa 


o.s 


si 


t).£: 


4)13 

d  a 
ems 


!ca 


.S-s 
.E  S 


THE  INFORMAL  DINNER 

Under  the  head  of  informal  dinners  are  in- 
cluded not  only  the  less  ceremonious  dinner  at 
which  g-uests  are  present,  but  the  family  dinner. 
In  the  homes  of  the  wealthy  and  fashionable 
the  family  dinner,  or  the  informal  dinner,  is 
served  with  almost  as  much  ceremony  as  a 
larger  dinner  would  be.  In  the  more  modest 
establishment  this  is  neither  possible  nor  desir- 
able, and  here  the  service  of  an  informal  dinner 
differs  considerably  from  that  of  the  formal 
affair.  And  yet  it  has  conventionalities  of  its 
own  which  must  be  observed. 

For  the  small  dinner  to  which  guests  have 
been  invited  informally,  the  menu  is  prepared 
with  the  same  care  that  would  be  given  to  a 
more  elaborate  menu,  and  the  order  of  the 
courses  is  the  same.  There  will  be,  supposedly, 
but  one  waiter  or  waitress.  The  soup  is  served 
from  the  pantry  or  by  the  hostess,  before  whom 
the  tureen  is  placed  after  the  removal  of  the 
oyster  plates.  When  served  at  the  table  the  soup 
plates  are  not  stacked  beside  the  hostess  ready 
for  use,  but  are  brought,  two  or  three  at  a  time, 
from  the  sideboard  and  placed  before  her  to  be 
31 


32  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

filled.  In  removing  the  soup  course,  the  tureen 
is  taken  out  first.  The  host  serves  the  fish  and 
carves  the  roast.  Entrees,  vegetables,  and 
sauces  are  placed  upon  the  side  table  and  from 
there  passed  to  the  left  of  each  guest.  Either 
the  host  or  the  hostess  may  make  the  salad  at 
the  table,  and  the  dessert  and  coffee  are  served 
by  the  hostess.  At  a  formal  dinner  there  is 
usually  a  hot  dessert  followed  by  a  frozen 
dainty  of  some  kind.  One  dessert  is  sufficient 
for  the  smaller  dinner,  and  an  ice  is  commonly 
considered  appropriate.  This  may  be  served 
with  or  without  cakes.  When  the  dessert  is 
finished,  the  platter  from  which  it  was  served 
by  the  hostess  is  removed  and  then  the  individ- 
ual dishes  taken  away.  This  is  the  proper  time 
to  serve  cheese  and  crackers  or  wafers,  if  there 
has  been  no  cheese  elsewhere  on  the  menu. 
Then  comes  the  coffee  served  in  tiny  after-din- 
ner cups.  A  finger-bowl  is  now  placed  before 
each  guest,  somewhat  to  the  left. 

Where  there  is  but  one  maid  to  do  both  cook- 
ing and  serving,  everything  that  can  be  done  in 
advance  to  facilitate  matters  should  be  at- 
tended to.  Place  upon  the  table  all  of  the 
knives  and  forks  that  will  be  needed.  See  that 
during  dinner  such  articles  as  will  be  required 
from  time  to  time  are  in  their  place  upon  the 
sideboard  or  the  side  table. 


THE  INFORMAL  DINNER  33 


In  regard  to  the  family  dinner,  it  is  a  pity 
that  in  so  many  homes  there  is  no  attempt  what- 
ever to  lend  to  this  meal  the  attractiveness  that 
comes  from  a  dainty  laying  of  the  table  and  a 
certain  amount  of  conventionality  in  serving. 
It  is  an  easy  matter  for  the  housekeeper  to  be- 
come careless  in  these  matters,  especially  where 
her  cares  are  many,  and  her  efforts  not  likely 
to  receive  a  sympathetic  appreciation.    But  it 
is  so  much  better  to  start  right  and  to  maintain, 
so  far  as  possible,  some  degree  of  order  in  the 
dining-room.      At  the  end  of  a  dinner,  how 
many  family  tables  look  neat  and  orderly?    Do 
they  not  rather  appear  to  have  been  shaken  up 
by  an  earthquake  shock?     At  each  place  the 
soiled  dishes  are  pushed  to  one  side  or  stacked 
in  forbidding  disorder,  instead  of  having  been 
taken  away  at  the  proper  time ;  the  meat  plat- 
ter, which  has  not  been  removed  to  give  place 
to  the  dessert,  stands  awry  before  the  head  of 
the  family;  the  vegetable  dishes  which  kept  it 
company  are  scattered  about— none  in  its  own 
place ;  while  catsup  bottles,  cruets,  carafes,  and 
similar   articles    stand    here    and    there,    and 
crumbs,  broken  bits  of  bread,  knives,  forks,  and 
spoons,  in  general  disarray,  litter  every  avail- 
able space  of  table-cloth.    Now,  instead  of  this 
higgledy-piggledy  way  of  dining,  it  would  be 
an  easy  matter,  even  if  the  mother  herself  or 


34  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


one  of  her  boys  or  girls  had  to  leave  the  table 
for  the  purpose,  to  keep  tlie  table  cleared  of  the 
dishes  not  in  use.  It  is  wise  to  insist  upon  the 
co-operation  of  the  children  in  keeping  the  table 
neat,  and  in  maintaining  order  during  meal- 
time. If  a  child  is  permitted  to  straggle  in  to 
breakfast  or  dinner  when  it  suits  him  to  do  so ; 
to  sit  with  hunched  shoulders,  leaning  against 
the  table,  or  with  his  arms  on  the  table;  if  he 
is  allowed  to  shove  his  chair  back  noisily  and 
leave  the  table  with  his  mouth  full  of  food,  and 
go  shouting  from  the  room,  without  asking  his 
mother  to  excuse  him,  it  will  be  safe  to  assume 
that  in  the  family  to  which  he  belongs  there  is 
no  understanding  of  the  greater  comfort  and 
enjoyment  that  attend  an  orderly,  well-served 
table.  If  soup  is  a  part  of  the  family  dinner, 
serve  it  as  would  be  done  for  a  small  company 
dinner.  AVhen  it  is  finished  remove  the  tureen 
and  then  the  plates,  the  latter  not  in  a  stack 
readj^  to  topple  over,  but  two  at  a  time,  with  the 
spoons  carefully  placed  so  that  they  will  not 
fall.  Don't  allow  an  empty  soup  dish  or  din- 
ner plate  to  be  pushed  to  one  side,  to  stand 
throughout  the  meal. 

Have  a  clean  table-cloth  as  often  as  possible ; 
it  is  a  great  moral  factor,  and  so,  too,  are 
flowers  on  the  table,  however  simple  the  bunch. 
In  other  words,  serve  what  there  is  to  serve, 


THE  INFORMAL  DINNER  35 

even  the  frugalest  meal,  as  daintily  as  possible, 
and  it  will  add  incalculably  to  the  attractive- 
ness of  the  home. 

On  another  page  will  be  found  a  number  of 
menus  suitable  for  informal  family  dinners. 


THE  FORMAL  LUNCHEON 

While  men  are  not  wholly  barred  from  in- 
vitation to  the  company  luncheon,  this  partic- 
ular form  of  entertainment  is  usually  extended 
only  to  ladies.  It  is  a  most  satisfactory  way  of 
entertaining  one's  woman  friends,  and  for  this 
reason  has  grown  greatly  in  favor  in  recent 
years.  The  mature  woman  invites  her  con- 
temporaries to  lunch  with  her ;  the  prospective 
bride  gives  a  "  farewell  luncheon  "  to  her  girl 
friends,  or  to  those  who  will  be  her  brides- 
maids ;  the  debutante  entertains  the  young  girls 
of  her  "  set,"  and  the  young  matron  brings  to- 
gether a  group  of  her  young  married  friends. 

Invitations  to  a  formal  luncheon  are  either 
written  or  engraved;  to  a  less  ceremonious 
luncheon  they  may  be  written  or  verbal.  They 
should  be  delivered  at  least  one  week  in  advance 
of  the  date  of  the  entertainment,  though  a 
longer  time  must  be  allowed  in  the  height  of  the 
social  season  when  one's  friends  are  much  in 
demand.  Invitations  to  a  luncheon  should  be 
answered  promptly — just  as  one  would  answer 
a  dinner  invitation. 
The  formal  luncheon  is  served  as  a  rule  at 
36 


THE  FORMAL  LUNCHEON  37 

one,  half-past  one,  or  two  o'clock — not  later 
than  the  latter  hour,  lest  it  spoil  the  guest's 
appetite  for  dinner.  In  houses  of  extensive 
means,  the  luncheon  will  differ  but  slightly  from 
the  formal  dinner.  The  table  will  be  laid  as 
elaborately  and  handsomely,  except  that  there 
will  be  fewer  wineglasses,  and  the  menu  and 
serving  will  be  much  the  same.  Where  the 
hostess  possesses  a  fine  table,  it  has  long  been 
customary  to  have  no  eovei'ing  upon  it  at 
luncheon  except  the  fine,  embroidered  centre- 
piece of  linen,  and  under  each  plate  the  doily 
to  match.  This  gives  a  charming  effect,  but  it 
is  in  better  taste  at  present  to  use  a  fine  damask 
table-cloth.  Like  most  attractive  fads,  this  one 
of  eating  from  the  "  bare  boards  "  was  soon 
overdone,  and  gradually  lost  favor  with  people 
who  are  sticklers  for  the  best  form. 

In  autumn  or  winter,  on  dark,  dull  days,  the 
dining-room  may  be  illuminated  for  a  hancheon 
by  was  tapers  or  whatever  artificial  light  is 
available,  only  be  sure  it  is  a  soft  and  becoming 
light.  A  spring  or  summer  luncheon  is  best 
served  by  the  light  of  the  blessed  sunshine,  tem- 
pered by  the  lace  or  silk  drapery  of  the  win- 
dows. 

The  dishes  may  be  served  from  the  pantry  or 
side  table;  though  it  is  proper  for  the  hostess 
to   serve   salads,   desserts,    or   coffee,   if   she 


38  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

wishes.  If  a  butler  is  waiting  at  table,  he  will 
be  in  afternoon  livery.  A  waitress  wears  the 
usual  black  gown  with  white  cap,  cuffs,  collar, 
and  apron.  Soup  is  served  in  small  cups  in- 
stead of  in  plates,  and  as  a  rule  not  more  than 
two  wines  are  served.  If  but  one  wine  is  on 
the  table  it  may  be  sauterne  or  claret.  If  two 
are  served,  sherry  and  sauterne  will  be  appro- 
priate. 

In  preparing  a  menu  for  a  formal  luncheon, 
it  is  well  to  bear  in  mind  that  women  are  fond 
of  dainties  rather  than  substantials ;  also  that 
it  is  best  to  avoid  too  elaborate  a  bill  of  fare. 
Do  not  have  too  many  courses.  Oysters  on  the 
half-shell  are  generally  served  if  in  season,  and 
these  are  followed  by  a  clear  soup  or  bouiJlon. 
Some  preparation  of  lobster  is  always  appreci- 
ated by  the  feminine  guest,  and  this  should  fol- 
low the  soup.  Sweetbreads,  chicken,  or  some- 
thing more  substantial  is  then  served ;  but  it  is 
best  to  omit  a  heavy  roast  and  a  variety  of 
vegetables.  A  choice  salad  should  have  place 
on  the  menu,  and  there  should  be  a  dainty  des- 
sert and  coffee.  Cordials  are  also  served  at 
the  last.  Dishes  of  fine  bonbons  and  the  vari- 
ous relishes  such  as  olives,  salted  almonds,  etc., 
are  left  upon  the  table  throughout  the  meal. 

The  servant  announces  luncheon  to  the  host- 
ess at  the  drawing  room  door,  as  would  be  done 


THE  FORMAL  LUNCHEON  39 


on  a  dinner  occasion,  but  there  is  no  formality 
in  the  order  of  going  to  the  dining-room.  The 
graceful  hostess  will  invite  her  guests  to  the 
table  without  stiffness  or  ceremony,  and  will 
herself  lead  the  way.  If  the  party  is  large, 
name-cards  are  used,  as  is  customary  at  formal 
dinners,  to  aid  in  seating  the  company.  These 
cards  may  be  daintily  <lecorated,  and  are  usu- 
ally kept  as  souvenirs.  The  hostess  on  the 
occasion  of  a  formal  luncheon  wears  an  after- 
noon costume  of  cloth  or  silk.  It  may  be  as 
elaborate  as  she  wishes,  but  is  never  decollete. 
The  guests  wear  their  finest  afternoon  gowns 
and  hats.  The  hats  are  not  removed  at 
luncheon.  Wraps,  parasols,  etc.,  are  left  in  the 
room  appointed  for  the  purpose,  to  which  each 
guest  is  directed  upon  her  arrival.  The  general 
rules  that  apply  to  dinner-giving  are  equally 
applicable  to  the  management  of  a  foi"mal 
luncheon. 

The  so-called  "  pink  luncheons,"  "  yellow 
luncheons,"  etc.,  are  easily  arranged,  and  are 
usually  suggested  by  the  abundance  of  some 
flower  or  other,  in  the  ]\eight  of  its  season. 
For  instance,  in  the  month  of  roses,  there  is 
an  opportunity  for  a  pink  luncheon,  with  the 
coming  of  the  golden-rod  one  may  devise  a  yel- 
low luncheon.  The  main  point  is  to  develop 
the  color-scheme,  as  it  is  termed  among  artiste, 


40  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


as  thoroughly  as  can  be  done  within  the  limits 
of  good  taste.  Use  as  much  of  the  chosen  color 
in  your  table  and  dining-room  decorations  as 
you  can  without  making  things  look  "  messy  " 
and  cheap.  Avoid  the  use  of  ribbons,  so  far  as 
possible,  and  of  fussy  little  knick-knacks  in- 
tended as  souvenirs.  But  after  all,  the  "  pink," 
"  green,"  "  violet,"  and  "  yellow  "  functions 
are  in  better  taste  for  the  entertainments  of 
very  young  girls  or  children  than  for  guests  of 
maturer  years. 


THE  INFORMAL  LUNCHEON 

For  the  preparation  and  serving  of  an  infor- 
mal luncheon,  one  scarcely  needs  advice.  This 
meal,  however,  like  the  family  dinner,  should 
be  carefully  and  daintily  served,  though  it  con- 
sist of  the  simplest  viands.  Only  the  members 
of  the  household  may  be  present  at  the  infor- 
mal luncheon,  but  it  should  be  so  conducted  that 
an  unexpected  guest  at  this  hour  would  cause 
no  greater  inconvenience  or  annoyance  than  the 
laying  of  an  extra  cover.  The  "  picked-up  " 
luncheon  that  obtains  in  so  many  homes,  and 
which  consists  of  a  bite  hastily  snatched  in 
pantry  or  kitchen  by  each  member  of  the  fam- 
ily, as  it  suits  his  or  her  convenience,  ought  to 
be  abolished.  In  its  stead  there  should  be  a 
regular  hour  for  this  midday  meal,  and  some 
special  preparation  for  it,  however  simple.  It 
is  worth  while  for  the  members  of  the  house- 
hold who  are  at  home  at  this  time  of  the  day 
to  meet  for  a  half-hour  of  pleasant  chat,  and  a 
cup  of  tea  or  coffee.  The  preparation  of 
luncheon  costs  but  little  extra  labor  on  the  part 
of  housekeeper  or  maid,  or  both,  and  it  means 
much  in  the  way  of  mental  and  bodily  rest  and 
refreshment  for  all  concerned. 
4t 


SUPPERS 

The  modern  supper  is  not,  as  a  rule,  the  first 
and  foremost  object  of  an  evening's  entertain- 
ment, but  is  usually  an  adjunct  to  some  other 
form  of  festivity,  such  as  a  theatre  or  card 
party,  or  a  reception.  Among  the  exceptions 
to  this  are  the  so-called  game,  wine,  and  fish 
suppers,  popular  among  the  "  men-folk." 

Suppers  are  of  various  degrees  of  formality 
—from  the  delightfully  informal  chafing-dish 
"  spread  "  to  an  affair  scarcely  less  elaborate 
than  the  formal  dinner.  It  is  not  in  the  nature 
of  things,  however,  that  this  function  should  be 
severely  dignified  or  overly  conventional ;  there 
is  apparently  something  electric  in  the  atmos- 
phere of  the  supper-room  that  precludes  so- 
lemnity and  induces  gayety,  and  it  is  just  this 
atmosphere  that  renders  the  supper  the  most 
delightful  of  feasts. 

To  begin  with  the  more  formal  supper,  such 
as  would  be  prepared  for  an  evening  reception 
or  some  other  large  affair,  it  may  be  said  that 
in  the  manner  of  setting  and  decorating  the 
table,  and  in  the  manner  of  serv-ing,  there  is 
no  variation  from  the  general  rules  applying  to 

42 


SUPPERS  43 

those  features  of  the  formal  dinner.  The  menu 
will  be  elaborate,  but  not  so  heavy  as  that  pre- 
pared for  a  dinner;  game,  salads,  entrees,  etc., 
take  the  place  of  the  substantial  roasts  and 
vegetables,  and  soup  gives  place  to  bouillon 
served  in  fine  cups.  Oysters  on  the  half-shell 
are  always  in  order,  and  there  may  be  wines 
if  desired.  A  representative  menu  for  a  sup- 
per of  this  kind  is  as  follows: 

SUPPER   MENU 

Oyster  Cocktail, 

Stuffed  Olives, 

Bouillon  in  Cups, 

Devilled  Crabs, 

Boiled  Spring  Chicken, 

Julienne  Potatoes, 

Waldorf  Salad, 

Roman  Punch, 

(Wines), 

Coffee. 

In  setting  the  table  for  the  large  supper 
which  usually  follows  an  evening  party  or  re- 
ception, and  at  which  a  less  degree  of  for- 
mality prevails,  it  is  customary  to  have  piles  of 
plates  and  napkins,  and  a  plentiful  supply  of 
knives,  forks,  and  spoons  conveniently  at  hand 
upon  a  side  table.    At  a  strictly  formal  supper, 


44  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

waiters  attend  to  the  serving,  following  the 
rules  for  serving  a  dinner,  but  where  there  is 
less  conventionality,  it  is  in  good  form  for  the 
men  of  the  party  to  see  that  the  ladies  are  com- 
fortably served,  even  though  each  man  among 
them  must  become,  pro  tern.,  a  waiter  himself. 

The  illumination  and  decoration  of  the  sup- 
per table  are  largely  a  matter  of  individual 
taste,  but  it  will  be  well  to  read  what  is  said 
on  this  subject  under  the  head  of  "  The  Formal 
Dinner." 

Do  not  make  the  mistake  so  commonly  made 
in  preparing  a  small  supper — of  having  an 
over-elaborate  menu.  The  tea  and  bread  and 
butter  of  "  Cranford  "  days  will  not  suffice,  but 
there  are  so  many  combinations  of  appetizing 
viands  suitable  for  such  an  entertainment  that 
it  should  be  no  difficult  matter  to  prepare  an 
attractive  menu.  Sandwiches,  one  kind  of 
salad,— lobster  or  chicken, — ^^dainty  cakes  and 
ices,  and  coffee  are  as  much  as  one  need  have. 

If  it  is  avoidable,  never,  under  any  circum- 
stances, expose  your  guests  to  the  horrors  of  a 
"  stand-up  "  supper — that  particular  form  of 
inquisition  which  consists  in  bestowing  upon 
each  victim  a  napkin  and  a  general  assortment 
of  tableware  which,  in  the  natural  order  of 
things,  he  would  need  at  least  three  pairs  of 
hands  to  manage.    There  are  few  objects  more 


SUPPERS  45 

pitiable  than  a  man  with  a  fragile  cup  and 
saucer  in  one  hand,  a  plate  of  cake  in  the  other, 
a  napkin  dangling  uselessly  from  his  trembling 
fingers,  and  not  so  much  as  a  bit  of  floor  space 
at  his  disposal  for  the  safe  deposit  of  these  in- 
cumbrances. Don't  do  it.  Better  have  no  re- 
fresliments  at  all  than  to  serve  them  in  this 
way. 

The  use  of  a  number  of  small  tables  instead 
of  a  large  one  is  allowable,  and,  in  some  cases, 
necessary.  Four  guests  to  each  table  is  the 
usual  arrangement. 


CHAFING-DISH  SUPPERS 

The  chafing-dish  is  a  metal  utensil  consist- 
ing of  a  receptacle  in  which  food  may  be  cooked, 
and  a  lamp  or  burner  of  some  sort  for  supply- 
ing heat.  There  are  many  savory  viands  that 
can  be  prepared  in  a  chafing-dish,  and  it  is 
especially  popular  with  those  who  live  in  studio 
quarters  or  in  some  other  way  that  necessitates 
**  light  housekeeping."  The  amateur  in  chaf- 
ing-dish cookery  is  usually  content  if  she 
learns  to  make  a  Welsh  rarebit  or  an  oyster 
stew;  she  does  it  "  for  the  fun  of  the  thing," 
and  is  not  ambitious  to  shine  as  an  expert.  But 
one  who  is  sufficiently  interested  in  the  method 
of  cooking  may  learn  to  prepare  a  goodly  num- 
ber of  appetizing  dishes,  and  her  chafing-dish 
"  spreads  "  need  never  become  monotonous 
for  the  lack  of  variety. 

The  idea  in  giving  a  chafing-dish  supper  is  to 
have  one  principal  viand  which  will  be  cooked 
by  the  hostess  at  the  table,  in  the  presence  of 
the  guests.  The  other  dishes  upon  the  menu 
will  be  prepared  in  advance  and  will  consist  of 
a  few  articles  that  "  go  "  suitably  with  the 
chafing-dish  preparation;  for  instance,  if  a 
46 


CHAFING-DISH  SUPPERS 47 

Welsh  rarebit  is  served,  there  may  be  a  cup  of 
bouillon  preceding  it,  and  thin  slices  of  bread 
and  butter,  and  coffee.  If  one  chafing-dish  will 
not  cook  a  sufficient  supply  for  the  company, 
two  may  be  used.  This,  however,  means  two 
cooks,  instead  of  one;  and  the  "  cook,"  by 
the  way,  must  know  the  part  thoroughly,  for 
it  is  unpardonable  to  bungle  before  one's 
guests. 

In  setting  the  table  for  the  chafing-dish  sup- 
per, see  that  nothing  superfluous  is  placed 
upon  it — even  the  cloth  may  be  dispensed  with 
and  doilies  used,  if  desired.  The  chafing-dish 
stands  in  front  of  the  hostess;  around  it,  con- 
venient to  her  hand,  are  the  utensils  and  vari- 
ous ingredients  which  she  will  need.  Nothing 
should  be  missing,  for  it  may  spoil  the  dish 
to  have  it  wait  at  a  critical  moment  while  the 
missing  article  is  brought.  It  is  the  privilege 
of  the  guests  to  watch  the  preparation  of  the 
dish,  though  they  should  not  do  so  in  silence, 
and  with  too  much  intentness.  Bright  conver- 
sation, a  little  witty  "  guying  "  of  the  "  cook," 
and  much  good-natured  joking  are  usually  the 
order  of  the  day — or  rather,  of  the  night — and 
if  the  "  cook  "  is  sure  of  herself  she  will  not 
be  made  nervous  by  it. 

Any  of  the  following  dishes,  and  many  be- 
side, are  suitable  for  chafing-dish  cookery : 


48 


THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


Lobster  a  la  Newburg 
Scrambled  Eggs 
Omelets 
Oyster  Stew 
Broiled  Oysters 
Terrapin 
Creamed  Chicken 


Cream  Toast 
Welsh  Rarebit 
Broiled  Chicken 
Creamed  Codfish 
Creamed  Lobster 
Oysters  a  la  Neivhurg 
Panned  Oysters 


For  recipes  and  many  other  dishes  see  Index. 


BREAKFASTS 

The  formal  breakfast — or  perhaps  it  would 
be  more  accurate  to  say  the  company  breakfast, 
for  this  meal  is  not  as  a  rule  very  formal — is 
much  in  favor  with  people  of  the  leisure  class, 
and  also  with  the  artist  and  litterateur,  who 
frequently  have  considerable  time  to  kill.  It 
is  an  exceedingly  pleasant  mode  of  entertain- 
ment when  successfully  conducted  and  also 
possesses  the  advantage,  for  people  of  limited 
income,  of  being  as  inexpensive  an  affair  as  one 
wishes  to  make  it.  The  hour  for  a  breakfast 
is  usually  twelve  o'clock,  but  very  often  it  is  as 
early  as  ten ;  never  later  than  noon,  for  it  would 
then  infringe  upon  the  hours  appointed  by  cus- 
tom for  luncheons. 

Invitations  to  a  breakfast  may  be  by  note  or, 
if  the  occasion  is  one  of  especial  importance, 
by  engraved  card.  It  is  not  necessary  to  send 
them  out  so  long  in  advance  of  the  date  as  is 
customary  in  giving  a  dinner.  A  week's  notice 
is  usually  sufficient.  A  hostess  who  desires  to 
be  quite  unconventional  may  send  her  visiting 
cards  with  the  line  of  invitation  added  beneath 
her  name,  as  follows: 

49 


50  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

Breakfast,  Tuesday,  October  fifteenth. 

The  menu  for  a  breakfast  may  be  more  or 
less  elaborate,  but  it  should  begin  with  fruit, 
and  should  include  fish  of  some  kind,  an  omelet 
or  other  preparation  of  eggs,  meat,  dainty  bis- 
cuits, rolls,  etc.,  and  tea,  coffee,  and  chocolate. 
At  a  very  elaborate  breakfast  such  delicacies 
as  lobster,  broiled  chicken,  sweetbreads,  and 
mushrooms  may  be  served.  Potatoes  are,  of 
course,  present  in  some  form.  Everything  is 
most  delicately  and  attractively  prepared. 
There  are  a  variety  of  pretty  ways  to  serve 
fruit;  grapefruit,  oranges,  and  melons  all  ad- 
mit of  several  methods  of  preparation,  recipes 
for  which  may  be  found  elsewhere  in  these 
pages. 

The  hostess  pours  the  tea  or  coffee  at  a  break- 
fast and  the  maid  passes  the  cups  and  other 
dishes.  In  the  essential  details  the  service  does 
not  differ  from  that  of  a  dinner  or  luncheon, 
though  there  is,  of  course,  a  freedom  from  any 
sense  of  formality.  Men  attending  a  breakfast 
wear  morning  dress,  and  ladies  wear  street  cos- 
tume. The  ladies  do  not  remove  their  hats  or 
bonnets.  The  dining-room  is  lighted  by  the 
sunshine  on  such  an  occasion,  and  care  should 
be  taken  to  have  plenty  of  flowers  about  the 
Toom. 

Guests  should  not  linger  long  after  leaving 


BREAKFASTS  5J 

the  dining-room,  for  their  visit  lias  been  com- 
pleted at  the  table,  and  it  must  be  borne  in  mind 
that  one's  hostess  may  have  other  engagements 
to  fill  during  the  afternoon,  even  though  she 
may  politely  seem  to  have  unlimited  leisure. 

The  family  breakfast  is  not,  as  a  rule,  the 
pleasant  meal  it  ought  to  be.  Most  people,  if 
asked,  would  declare  emphatically  that  they  en- 
joy their  dinner  more  than  any  other  meal; 
many  would  stare  at  the  mere  suggestion  of  an 
enjoyable  breakfast,  reluctant  to  believe  that 
such  an  anomaly  could  exist.  Yet  there  are  a 
few  benighted  individuals  who  hold  that  the 
morning  meal  is  the  best  of  all.  It  is  difficult, 
however,  to  make  it  attractive  in  the  household 
whose  members  either  cannot  or  will  not  come 
together  promptly  at  the  chosen  hour. 

The  head  of  the  house,  hurrying  off  to  busi- 
ness, snatches  an  early  bite  alone,  or  perhaps 
in  the  company  of  one  or  more  of  the  children 
who  have  to  be  at  school  on  time;  the  girls  of 
the  household  rise  later  and  straggle  into  the 
dining-room  at  their  own  sweet  will;  the 
mother,  if  she  is  the  right  kind,  is  on  hand  from 
start  to  finish  and  sees  to  the  feeding  of  her 
entire  flock.  But  what  an  uncomfortable  feed- 
ing it  is !  Part  of  the  family  hurried  out  of  all 
reason,  and  the  others  keeping  back  the  day's 
work  bv  their  leisurelv  rising  and  dressing. 


52  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

The  family  doesn't  really  come  together  in  any 
sort  of  comfort  until  the  dinner  hour.  It  is  a 
great  thing  in  a  family  to  have  the  members 
meet  in  the  morning,  if  only  for  fifteen  minutes ; 
to  meet  cheerfully  and  hopefully  and  to  show 
an  interest  in  one  another's  duties  for  the  day. 
A  little  agreeable  talk,  a  little  good-natured 
chaffing,  a  cheery  word  of  adieu  at  the  moment 
of  parting,  mean  much  and  cost  little. 


AFTEKNOON  TEAS 

The  term  "  Afternoon  Tea,"  as  it  is  used  in 
this  country,  refers  more  especially  to  the  social 
aspect  of  tea-drinking  rather  than  the  "  Five- 
o 'Clock  Tea  "  of  the  domestic  circle.  The  cus- 
tom of  serving  tea  between  the  luncheon  and 
dinner  hours  is  an  imported  one,  coming  to 
America  from  England,  where,  among  both 
high  and  low,  rich  and  poor,  the  afternoon  cup 
of  tea  is  an  almost  indispensable  part  of  the 
domestic  routine.  In  America  the  six-o'clock 
dinner  prevails  very  generally,  and  the  * '  Five- 
o 'Clock  Tea  "  custom  has  gained  comparatively 
little  foothold;  it  has  been  adopted  by  the  leisure 
classes,  however,  and  is  also  popular  with  the 
college  girl,  the  bachelor  maid,  the  artist,  and 
the  so-called  Bohemian  circle. 

The  American  hostess  has  made  the  most  of 
the  social  possibilities  of  tea-drinking,  and 
these  are  varied  and  attractive.  The  evolution 
of  the  simple  five-o'clock  refreshment  into  the 
elaborate  entertainment  known  as  a  "  Tea  " 
has  been  gradual.  Originally,  the  purpose  of 
the  "Afternoon  Tea"  was  practical  rather 
than  social.  In  the  country  homes  of  England, 
53 


54  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

during  the  sporting  seasons,  a  "  bite  and  sup  " 
were  offered  to  the  tired  sportsman  upon  his 
return  from  field  or  wood,  in  order  that  he 
might  not  perish  of  starvation  before  the  din- 
ner hour — usuallj'  eight  o'clock.  In  America 
the  average  citizen  has  no  real  need  of  refresh- 
ment between  his  luncheon  and  dinner,  but  the 
afternoon  cup  of  tea  found  favor,  nevertheless, 
and  has  gained  rapidly  in  popularity.  A  great 
many  hostesses,  with  an  eye  to  economy,  per- 
haps, make  the  formal  tea  their  principal  mode 
of  entertaining.  In  many  homes  tea  is  served 
daily  at  five  o'clock;  it  is  a  pleasant  custom 
and  should  not  be  confined  to  the  family  of 
wealth  and  leisure.  At  this  hour  those  mem- 
bers of  the  household  who  are  at  home  should, 
if  possible,  come  together  in  drawing-room  or 
living-room,  or  on  the  veranda  when  the  season 
is  propitious,  and,  laying  aside  the  cares  of  the 
day,  enjoy  a  half-hour  of  social  intercourse. 
It  means  but  little  extra  work,  even  in  the  house 
where  no  maid  is  employed.  There  is  no  table- 
setting  to  be  done,  and  no  dishes  to  wash  except 
the  few  cups,  saucers,  and  spoons,  and  brewing 
utensils  that  are  used. 

Special  tables  are  made  for  tea  service.  The 
proper  table  is  rather  low  and  not  too  large. 
Neither  should  it  be  too  light,  or  it  will  easily 
upset.    A  form  of  table  much  in  favor  is,  iu 


AFTERNCX)N  TEAS  55 


reality,  a  series  of  three  or  four,  or  even  more, 
tables  of  graduated  sizes,  enclosed  one  in  an- 
other when  not  in  use,  and  called  a  "  nest  of 
tables."  When  this  is  used,  the  maid  draws 
the  little  tables  from  their  place  and  sets  them, 
as  directed,  about  the  room.  The  largest  one 
is  set  before  the  hostess,  or  whoever  pours 
the  tea,  and  the  others  are  useful  for  the 
guests. 

The  hostess,  or  whoever  presides  over  thetea^ 
pot,  should  see  that  her  chair  is  oue  that  allows 
unrestricted  freedom  of  movement.  The  pour- 
ing of  tea  possesses  possibilities  of  its  own  for 
displaying  to  advantage  the  graces  of  figure 
and  motion.  The  tea  table  of  the  family  circle 
is  never  "  set."  When  the  tea  hour  arrives 
the  housemaid  also  arrives,  bearing  a  tray  con- 
taining the  various  appurtenances  for  "  brew- 
ing "  and  serving,  and  this  is  placed  upon  the 
table  before  her  mistress.  Tea-kettles,  with 
their  little  spirit  lamp  beneath,  are  made  of 
brass,  silver,  copper,  or  other  material,  and  arc 
good  to  look  upon.  Whatever  metal  is  used,  it 
should  be  in  a  high  state  of  polish.  Taste  in 
the  matter  of  teapots  is  almost  as  varied  as  the 
designs  of  the  teapots  themselves,  and  the  only 
advice  worth  offering  is  to  have  the  daintiest 
and  best  you  can  afford.  A  "  cosey,"  which  is 
a  wadded  covering  made  to  fit  over  the  pot  to 


56  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

keep  it  warm  while  the  tea  ' '  draws, ' '  is  another 
essential  of  the  table. 

As  to  the  making  of  tea,  it  may  not  be  out 
of  place  to  say  here  that  it  is  worth  while  to 
learn  the  right  way.  English  visitors  to  our 
country  sometimes  complain  that  the  Ameri- 
cans make  poor  tea.  Many  of  them  do,  un- 
doubtedly. There  are  even  benighted  souls 
here  and  there  who  believe  in  boiled  tea,  or  who 
would  look  at  one  in  mild  surprise  if  told  that 
the  beverage  which  has  been  steeping  in  the 
teapot  on  the  back  of  the  stove  during  the  whole 
afternoon  is  not  quite  as  good  as  the  fresh-made 
cup.  This  sort  of  tea-maker  lives  in  England 
also,  and  probably  wherever  tea  is  used. 

The  American  hostess  knows,  as  a  rule,  both 
how  to  buy  and  how  to  make  tea.  It  pays  to 
buy  the  best;  the  best  costs  considerably  more 
than  the  ordinary  quality,  but  goes  farther. 
Recipes  for  the  making  of  tea  may  be  found  on 
another  page  of  this  work.  The  assistance  of 
the  maid  is  not  required  for  the  simple  five- 
o'clock  tea  service,  even  when  guests  are  pres- 
ent. After  she  has  placed  the  tray  before  her 
mistress  she  may  retire.  The  hostess,  or  a 
daughter  or  friend  of  the  house,  pours  the  tea, 
and  the  guests  help  themselves  and  each  other. 
There  is  no  formality  about  it.  The  keynote  of 
the  afternoon  tea  should  be  sociability.    The 


AFTERNOON  TEAS  57 


only  necessary  accompaniment  in  the  way  of 
solid  refreshment  is  bread  and  butter,— the 
bread  cut  very  thin,— dainty  wafers,  or  delicate 
cakes  of  some  kind. 

This,  of  course,  is  "  Afternoon  Tea  "  in  its 
simplest  and  most  unconventional  form.  Vari- 
ation on  a  more  elaborate  scale  is  the  weekly 
' '  At  Home, ' '  which  has  grown  in  popularity  with 
many  hostesses.  Here  the  service  is  much  like 
that  described  above,  though  it  is  permissible 
to  add  something  more  to  the  menu.  For  this 
form  of  entertainment,  cards  of  invitation  (see 
"  Invitations  ")  are  issued  early  in  the  season. 
"  At  Home  "  days  may  be  weekly,  for  a  period 
of  several  weeks,  or  may  extend  throughout  the 
social  season.  Upon  these  occasions  the  tea 
may  be  made  or  poured  by  the  hostess  herself, 
or  it  may  be  brought  in  by  the  maid  and  passed 
upon  a  tray  to  the  guests.  Most  hostesses, 
however,  delight  in  their  pretty  table  and  its 
dainty  appointments,  and  would  be  loth  to 
relegate  the  pouring  of  the  tea  to  the  kitchen 
or  pantry.  There  is  usually  no  table  set  for 
this  simpler  "  At  Home,"  but,  where  tea  is 
poured  in  the  drawing-room,  the  maid  brings 
the  tray,  as  described  before,  and  places  it  upon 
the  table.  Late-comers  must,  of  course,  have 
freshly  made  tea;  the  tea-ball,  a  tiny  metal  con- 
trivance for  making  tea  in  the  cup  as  it  is  re- 


58  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

quired,  without  using  the  teapot,  will  be  found 
a  great  convenience.  The  assistance  of  the 
maid  may  be  required  where  many  guests  are 
present,  but  such  is  the  nature  of  the  informal 
"  Afternoon  Tea,"  even  on  this  larger  scale, 
that  her  services,  after  arranging  the  table, 
may  be  dispensed  with  if  desired.  She  should 
stay  within  call,  however,  in  case  she  is  needed. 

The  menu  may  include  both  tea  and  coffee  or 
tea  and  chocolate.  There  may  be  one  or  two 
kinds  of  dainty  sandwiches,  and  baskets  or 
plates  of  fancy  cakes.  Plates  and  napkins  need 
not  be  offered  unless  the  hostess  prefers.  A 
plate  containing  thin  slices  of  lemon  should  be 
upon  the  tray  for  those  who  prefer  their  tea 
a  la  Russe — or  in  the  so-called  "  Eussian  " 
style.  A  dish  of  fine  bonbons  may  also  be 
passed.  Do  not  be  tempted,  however,  in  pre- 
paring a  menu  for  the  regular  "  At  Home  " 
occasion,  to  extend  it  beyond  the  limits  here 
prescribed.  Bouillon,  oysters,  salads,  ices, 
fruit,  etc.,  are  not  expected,  and  are  certainly 
not  in  good  taste. 

The  really  formal  "  Tea  "  is  hardly  a 
"  Tea  "  at  all,  though  the  cards  of  invitation 
indicate  to  the  prospective  guests  that  the 
"  beverage  that  cheers  "  will  be  dispensed 
upon  the  date  and  at  the  hours  mentioned.  A 
hostess  may  elect  to  give  two  or  more  of  these 


AFTERNOON  TEAS  59 


elaborate  "Teas"  during  the  social  season. 
Where  her  circle  of  friends  and  acquaintances 
is  very  large,  she  may  invite  part  of  them  for 
one  date  and  others  for  another.  In  this  way 
a  number  of  social  obligations  may  be  "  paid 
oif  "  with  comparative  ease  and  economy.  The 
"  Tea  "  of  this  sort,  however,  is  in  reality  an 
afternoon  reception.  The  hostess  invites  one 
or  more  of  her  women  friends,  usually  those  of 
the  younger  set,  to  assist  her.  Women  attend- 
ing a  daytime  reception  of  this  kind  wear  street 
or  carriage  costume,  and  the  hostess  and  her 
assistants  are  gowned  in  their  handsomest  re- 
ception attire,  which  is  never,  by  the  way, 
decollete.  Men  attending  a  "Tea"  do  not 
wear  evening  clothes.  The  hostess  stands  at 
the  drawing-room  door  to  receive  her  guests. 
A  handshake,  a  few  pleasant  words,  a  sugges- 
tion to  each  that  she  go  to  the  dining-room  and 
have  a  cup  of  tea,  are  all  that  is  necessary. 
Guests  meet  acquaintances  among  those  assem- 
bled and  do  not  look  to  their  hostess  for  any 
special  attention.  A  "  Tea  "  of  this  size  dif- 
fers from  the  smaller  affairs  in  the  manner  of 
serving  refreshments.  The  large  number  of 
guests  precludes  the  possibility  of  pouring  and 
serving  tea  and  dispensing  other  refreshments 
in  the  drawing-rooms,  and  therefore  it  becomes 
necessary  to  lay  the  table  in  the  dining-room 


THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


or  in  any  other  suitable  room  connected  with 
the  dramng-room.  The  table  wears  its  finest 
damask;  at  one  end  is  placed,  usually,  the  tea 
service,  and  at  the  other  a  chocolate  or  coffee 
service.  Friends  of  the  hostess  preside  over 
these  beverages,  and  waitresses  are  at  hand  to 
pass  refreshments  and  to  see  that  the  table  is 
kept  fresh  and  in  perfect  order  throughout  the 
afternoon. 

The  menu  for  a  "  Tea  "  of  this  kind  may  in- 
clude bouillon,  two  or  more  kinds  of  the  most 
delicate  sandwiches,  cakes,  bonbons,  such  rel- 
ishes as  salted  almonds  and  olives,  and  tea, 
coifee,  and  chocolate.  A  punch  or  ice  is  also 
permissible.  Artificial  lighting  of  the  rooms  is 
customary  for  the  occasion. 

There  is  still  another  degree  of  "  Tea,"  but 
it  is  so  very  remotely  connected  with  the  idea 
of  tea-drinking  that  it  scarcely  deserves  a  place 
in  this  chapter.  Properly  speaking,  it  is  an 
afternoon  reception  on  a  very  elaborate  scale. 
"  Tea,"  to  be  sure,  may  be  found  in  a  modest 
corner  of  the  menu,  but  the  latter  includes  so 
much  beside  that  it  is  more  like  a  luncheon  or 
supper  menu.  "Waiters  attend  to  all  serving, 
and  there  is  no  pouring  of  tea  by  hostess  or 
friends;  nor  do  the  guests  busy  themselves  in 
attending  to  the  wants  of  one  another.  The 
"  Afternoon  Tea  "  proper  is  characterized,  as 


AFTERNOON  TEAS  61 


has  been  said  before,  by  an  atmosphere  of  sim- 
plicity, informality,  and  cosiness. 

A  form  of  "  Tea  "  much  in  favor  a  few  years 
ago,  and  not  yet  relegated  altogether  to  the 
limbo  of  discarded  fads,  is  the  pink,  blue,  or 
yellow  Tea— or  whatever  the  scheme  of  decora- 
tion may  be.    There  is  no  reason  why  the  color- 
scheme  "  Tea  "  should  not  hold  its  own  so  far 
as  the  attractiveness  of  decoration  is  concerned, 
for  it  really  admits  of  very  pretty  effects  when 
artistically  conceived  and  executed.    One  must 
consider,  however,  in  planning  a  pink  or  yellow 
Tea,  not  only  the  table  decoration  and  the  har- 
mony of  the  viands  in  point  of  color,  but  must 
not  forget  the  predominating  colors  of  the  walls 
and  furnishings   of  the  dining-room.    Unless 
one  is  sure  of  her  eye  for  color  combinations, 
or  has  a  friend  of  artistic  tastes  who  will  ad- 
vise her,  it  would  be  best  not  to  attempt  this 
particular  form  of  entertainment. 


TABLE  MANNERS 

THE    COEKECT    POSITION    AT   TABLE 

The  proper  position  at  table  is  to  sit  erect 
with  the  chest  or  waist  just  a  few  inches  from 
the  table.  You  should  never  lounge  or  slip 
down  into  your  chair ;  neither  should  you  reach 
forward  to  decrease  the  distance  between  your 
mouth  and  the  food  set  before  you,  as  if  you 
begrudged  the  distance. 

It  is  customary  for  gentlemen  to  remain 
standing  until  the  hostess  is  seated,  and  this 
custom  should  be  regarded,  whether  the  hostess 
is  the  leader  of  society  or  his  mother. 

It  is  highly  improper  to  support  the  elbows 
by  placing  them  on  the  table,  to  say  nothing  of 
the  fact  that  it  is  extremely  ungraceful,  and  no 
condition  of  intimacy  should  permit  this; 
neither  is  it  permissible  to  play  with  the  knives, 
forks,  or  spoons,  make  sketches  on  the  cloth 
with  the  handle  of  a  spoon,  or  clink  the  glasses 
together.  During  moments  when  not  engaged 
in  the  act  of  eating,  the  hands  should  lie  quietly 
in  the  lap,  and  all  actions  should  simulate  as 
far  as  possible  the  repose  of  bearing  which 
alone  marks  the  well-bred  man  or  woman. 


TABLE  MANNERS  63 

It  is  well  to  remember,  in  all  of  these  matters 
pertaining  to  etiquette,  that  while  you  may  not 
be  noticed  particularly  if  you  do  everything  in 
a  proper  and  graceful  manner,  you  are  sure  to 
arouse  adverse  comment  when  you  deviate  from 
the  correct  way  of  conducting  yourself. 

THE  NAPKIN 

This  article  is  not  intended  to  take  the  place 
of  the  "  bib  "  of  babyhood,  and  for  that  reason 
should  not  be  spread  out  over  the  lap  or  chest ; 
and,  above  all  things,  it  must  not  be  inserted 
at  one  corner  into  the  top  of  the  waistcoat  or 
collar.  While  it  is  not  for  ornament  but  in- 
tended for  use,  it  is  sufficient  and  proper  to 
lay  it  across  the  knees,  unfolding  it  but  once. 
When  eating  at  a  restaurant,  or  at  the  board 
of  a  friend,  you  are  not  supposed  necessarily 
to  carefully  fold  it  into  the  original  creases  last 
produced  by  the  laundry.  In  most  American 
homes  napkins  are  used  but  once  before  being 
washed,  and  for  that  reason  it  is  entirely 
proper,  when  arising  from  the  table,  to  place  it 
beside  your  plate,  unfolded.  On  the  other 
hand,  there  are  occasions  on  which  it  is  well  to 
make  an  exception  to  this  rule ;  as,  for  instance, 
if,  while  visiting  a  friend  for  a  day  or  two,  you 
notice  the  host  or  hostess  fold  his  or  her  napkin 
carefully,  you  may  be  pretty  sure  that  it  is  one 


6i  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

of  the  households  where  a  fresh  napkin  is  not 
supplied  at  every  meal. 

KNIFE  AND  FORK 

So  much  has  been  written  about  the  man  who 
conveys  food  to  his  mouth  with  his  knife  that 
it  is  hardly  necessary  to  point  out  that  it  is  not 
proper.  The  knife  is,  however,  used  exclusively 
for  cutting  the  food,  and  should  always  be  held 
in  the  right  hand.  Likewise  the  fork  is  found 
in  the  right  hand  when  the  knife  is  not  in  use, 
and  should  not  be  made  to  take  the  place  of  a 
spoon,  except  for  such  Wishes  as  peas,  beans, 
etc. 

It  is  equally  bad  manners  to  turn  the  fork 
into  a  shovel  by  loading  it  with  a  combination 
of  various  foods  and  then  transporting  the 
whole  to  the  mouth;  that  is  as  bad  as  mashing 
food  in  between  the  prongs  of  the  fork,  holding 
both  knife  and  fork  in  the  hand,  high  up  in  the 
air,  while  your  plate  is  being  passed  for  a 
second  helping,  or,  what  is  equally  bad,  plac- 
ing the  knife  and  fork  on  the  cloth  beside  the 
plate,  or  with  the  tips  of  each  on  the  plate-edge, 
when  not  actively  engaged  in  eating.  The 
proper  way,  of  course,  when  you  are  not  using 
either  your  knife  or  fork,  is  to  place  them  on 
the  plate  together,  with  their  tips  in  the  centre 
of  the  plate  and  the  handles  on  the  edge. 


TABLE  MANNERS  65 


It  is  difficult  to  enumerate  all  of  the  dishes 
which  should  be  eaten  with  the  fork.  Its  use 
is  not  confined,  however,  to  meats,  vegetables, 
and  fish,  but  takes  in  ices,  melons,  salads,  and 
frozen  puddings.  Terrapin  and  lobster,  as 
well  as  oysters  and  clams  are  fork  foods,  and 
you  should  never  cut  your  lettuce  with  a  knife. 
Fold  the  leaves  up  with  your  fork  and  lift  them 
to  your  mouth. 

THE  SPOON 

You  should  never  drink  your  coffee,  tea,  or 
bouillon  from  a  spoon,  or  allow  the  spoon, 
which  is  furnished  simply  for  the  purpose  of 
stirring  or  testing  the  temperature  of  the  con- 
tents of  your  cup,  to  remain  in  it.  This  is  as 
bad  as  to  lift  a  spoon  full  of  soup  and  attempt 
to  cool  it  by  blowing  upon  it,  which  is,  as  we 
all  know,  a  habit  taught  in  the  nursery.  Here 
may  also  be  mentioned  that  the  proper  way  to 
dip  soup  from  the  plate  is  away  from  you  in- 
stead of  toward  you,  and  that  it  should  be  taken 
from  the  side  of  the  spoon  rather  than  from 
the  end.  It  is  highly  improper  to  tip  your 
soup  plate  to  get  that  last  half-spoonful. 

Numerous  foods  must,  of  course,  be  eaten 
with  a  spoon,  such  as  fruit  salads,  oranges  and 
grapefruit,  cereals,  hot  puddings  with  sauces, 
etc. 


M  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

THE  FINGER-BOWL 

The  finger-bowl  is  used  at  the  end  of  a  meal 
and  at  the  end  of  a  fruit  course.  When  using 
the  bowl,  it  is  not  proper  to  put  both  hands  in 
at  the  same  time,  but  one  at  a  time,  nor  should 
one  splash  up  the  water  in  an  effort  to  wash 
the  entii-e  hand.  It  is  supposed  that  the  tips 
of  the  fingers  only  need  cleansing,  and  a  little 
rubbing  of  the  tips  together  will  be  sufficient. 
Then  they  should  be  dried  with  the  napkin  on 
the  knees. 

DELIBERATION    AND    NATURALNESS 

You  should  always  eat  slowly,  both  for  the 
sake  of  your  digestion  and  for  appearances. 
One  should  imitate  Gladstone,  who  made  it  a 
rule  to  chew  each  mouthful  twenty-five  times. 
This  suggestion  is  a  good  one  for  the  health, 
and  even  though  our  intention  in  this  article 
is  not  to  give  hygienic  directions,  this  sugges- 
tion is  made  here  for  its  value  to  the  physical 
comfort  of  the  diner.  The  other  side  of  the 
question  is  that  it  comports  more  with  your 
personal  dignity  to  eat  slowly.  When  you  get 
into  the  habit  of  eating  slowly  you  are  more 
likely  to  avoid  the  more  serious  blunders,  such 
as  sucking  up  a  liquid  from  a  spoon,  scraping 
the  bottom  of  a  plate  for  the  last  particle  of 


TABLE  MANNERS  67 


any  dish,  or,  as  one  writer  has  aptly  put  it, 
' '  drumming  on  a  knife-blade  in  order  to  distrib- 
ute salt  on  meat  or  vegetables."  Above  all,  it  is 
pretty  hard  to  talk  well  when  your  mouth  is 
continually  full  of  large  portions  of  food,  and 
a  man  or  woman  is  only  considered  a  good 
diner-out  if  he  can  find  time  to  converse  intelli- 
gently and  easily,  and  not  as  though  he  be- 
grudged the  absence  of  constant  mouthfuls  of 
food. 

Do  not,  when  salting  meats  or  vegetables, 
first  place  a  quantity  of  salt  on  the  cloth  beside 
your  plate.  It  should  always  be  placed  on  the 
edge  of  the  plate— and  do  not  for  the  purpose 
of  getting  it  there  run  your  knife-point  into  the 
large  salt  receptacle,  but  use  the  small  salt 
spoon,  which  will  be  found  in  the  salt  recep- 
tacle. Then  do  not  use  your  thumb  and  fore- 
finger to  distribute  it,  but  use  only  the  little  salt 
that  will  adhere  to  the  prongs  of  the  fork  or  a 
little  on  the  knife-point.  You  will  find  that  a 
little  is  sufficient  to  flavor  any  dish.  Besides, 
the  average  home  at  which  you  will  dine  has 
a  cook  who  is  supposed  to  know  how  to  season 
dishes. 

If  you  should  want  pai'ticularly  to  eat  a  last 
morsel  of  any  one  dish  that  you  find  on  your 
plate,  don't  push  it  on  your  fork  with  the  tip 
of  your  finger.    If  you  must  have  it,  it  is  better 


08  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

to  use  a  bit  of  bread  or  the  knife-point  instead 
of  the  finger. 

-  It  is  supposed,  when  you  lift  food  from  the 
plate  with  your  fork  or  spoon,  that  you  want 
to  get  it  to  your  mouth,  and  for  that  reason 
you  should  not  arrest  the  mouthful  in  question 
in  mid-air  while  you  go  on  with  the  conversa- 
tion. 

ACCIDENTS 

Accidents  will  occur  at  the  best-regulated 
dinner  tables  as  well  as  in  families.  When  they 
occur,  however,  it  is  best  not  to  call  particular 
attention  to  yourself  too  strongly  by  too  pro- 
fuse apologies,  and,  above  all,  "  don't  keep  it 
up."  A  simple  appealing  glance  to  the  hostess 
and  a  "  Pray,  forgive  me,  I  am  very  awkward," 
etc.,  is  sufficient.  The  accomplished  hostess 
will  endeavor  to  open  the  conversation  at  once 
on  a  new  topic,  as  if  nothing  had  happened.  If 
the  inevitable  has  happened  to  you,  however, 
in  the  form  of  a  bit  of  grease  or  something 
similar  which  has  dropped  to  your  apparel,  you 
must  not  remove  it  with  a  knife,  but  the  end  of 
your  napkin  must  suffice. 

A  FEW  don'ts 

If  you  are  a  g-uest  at  a  formal  dinner  or 
luncheon  or  elaborate  breakfast,  do  not  ask  for 
a  second  helping  to  any  of  the  dishes.    The  re- 


TABLE  MANNERS  69 


verse  is  true  at  the  informal  friendly  dinner, 
for  there  the  request  for  a  second  helping  is 
a  compliment  to  the  hostess. 

Do  not,  if  you  are  host  or  hostess  at  a  formal 
meal,  cause  delay  by  requesting  guests  to  take 
a  second  helping  of  any  one  dish  that  has  al- 
ready been  served;  and  here  the  reverse  is 
again  true;  for  at  the  little  informal  dinner  the 
hostess  may  invite  the  guest  to  have  a  second 
helping. 

Never  take  a  bite  of  the  dinner  roll  which  you 
will  find  in  the  napkin.  You  are  supposed  to 
eat  of  it,  of  course,  but  should  break  it  into 
pieces  the  size  of  a  mouthful,  and  then  eat  it 
as  you  break  it  off.  Cake  may  be  eaten  in  the 
same  way,  or  with  the  aid  of  a  fork. 

Never  place  a  slice  of  bread  on  the  cloth  be- 
side your  plate  and  spread  it  all  over  with  but- 
ter and  then  cut  it.  It  is  not  fair  to  the  cloth, 
and  besides,  you  will  find  a  bread-and-butter 
plate  provided  for  that  purpose.  Bread  is  to 
be  eaten  by  breaking  off  small  pieces  and  then 
buttering  them  just  before  placing  them  in  the 
mouth. 

Don't  bite  into  a  whole  peach  at  table  the 
same  as  you  would  if  you  were  out  under  the 
tree.  It  and  similar  fruits  should  be  quartered, 
peeled,  and  cut  into  mouthfuls.  When  eating 
grapes  don't  blow  the  pits  into  the  plate  and 


70  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

all  over  the  table.  They  should  be  dropped 
into  the  hand  from  the  mouth  and  placed  on  the 
plate. 

Do  not  take  chicken-bones  and  chops  into  the 
fingers  and  eat  from  them  as  though  you  had 
a  roasting  ear.  There  is  no  other  way  in  the 
case  of  the  corn,  but  if  you  are  not  clever 
enough  to  cut  away  most  of  the  chicken,  game, 
or  chop  from  the  bone  that  has  fallen  to  your 
lot,  you  ought  to  be  made  to  do  without  such 
morsels. 

Asparagus  comes  in  for  another  don't.  It 
should  not  be  taken  up  with  the  fingers.  That 
part  which  you  can  eat  with  a  relish  should  be 
cut  off  with  the  fork,  and  you  will  thus  avoid  the 
uninviting  spectacle  of  an  open  mouth  hoping 
to  catch  the  good  end  of  a  long  stem  as  it  is 
hoisted  ready  to  be  dropped. 

Do  not  commit  the  reprehensible  act  of  push- 
ing away  your  plate  when  you  are  through  with 
the  meal  or  when  you  have  finished  a  course, 
and  do  not  brush  up  the  crumbs  around  your 
plate.  These  are  the  faults  of  the  thoughtless, 
and  one  should  not  show  himself  absent-minded 
at  dinner. 

WINES 

At  a  formal  dinner  the  servant  is  supposed 
to  replenish  the  wineglasses  from  time  to  time, 
and  he  generally  does  so  under  direction  of  the 


TABLE  MANNERS 


host,  who  must  keep  his  eyes  open  to  instruct, 
especially  in  regard  to  the  glass  of  any  partic- 
ular guest  whom  the  servant  may  have  over- 
looked. Guests  at  a  large  dinner  never  ask  to 
be  helped  to  wine.  Should  the  guest  not  desire 
a  second  glass,  a  simple  "  No,  thank  you  "  is 
sufficient. 

The  host  is  privileged,  however,  at  an  infor- 
mal dinner,  to  ask  a  guest  to  help  himself  to 
wine,  and  if  the  wine  is  on  the  table,  a  guest 
may  help  himself  without  asking  permission, 
except  if  the  guest  be  a  woman.  Women  guests 
wait  for  the  gentleman  beside  them  to  fill  the 
glasses,  or  look  to  the  servants  to  do  this. 

IN   THE   WAY   or   REMINDERS 

Upon  the  arrival  of  the  first  guests  the  host 
and  hostess  should  be  ready  in  the  drawing- 
room  to  greet  them  cordially  as  they  arrive. 
They  must  be  at  particular  pains  to  see  that 
their  guests  are  introduced  to  each  other. 
Should  any  of  the  guests  be  more  than  fifteen 
minutes  late,  the  hostess  may  order  dinner 
served. 

Guests  will  find  their  seats  by  moving  about 
the  table  until  they  find  the  cards  bearing  their 
names  at  the  covers  so  designated  for  them. 

Late  arrivals  at  a  formal  dinner  present  their 
apologies  to  the  hostess,  who  does  not  arise 


72  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

except  in  the  case  of  a  woman  guest.  The 
host,  however,  partly  to  turn  attention  away 
from  the  interruption  of  the  late  arrival,  rises 
and  assists  in  seating  the  delinquent.  In  such 
cases,  however,  the  dinner  is  not  delayed  to 
enable  the  late-comer  to  catch  up,  but  he  is  ex- 
pected to  take  it  up  at  the  course  that  is  then 
being  served,  or,  if  about  to  serve  the  next 
course,  he  waits. 

At  most  formal  dinners  it  is  customary  for 
the  ladies  to  take  their  coffee  or  liqueurs  in  the 
drawing-room.  The  signal  for  this  movement 
is  made  just  before  coffee  is  served  by  the  host- 
ess, who  catches  the  eye  of  the  lady  at  the  right 
of  the  host,  and  rises.  At  this  signal  all  the 
guests  rise,  the  men  standing  aside  to  let  the 
ladies  pass  easily. 

The  men  then  gather  around  the  table  with 
their  host  for  a  twenty  or  twenty-five  minute 
enjoyment  of  coffee,  wine,  and  cigars,  at  the 
end  of  which  the  host  proposes  to  join  the 
ladies,  which  is  done  at  once.  At  less  formal 
affairs  it  is  customary  and  permissible  for  the 
ladies  to  remain  with  the  gentlemen  in  the 
dining-room  while  they  enjoy  their  coffee  and 
cigars. 

THE  GUEST 

Promptness  in  arriving  should  be  the  watch- 
word of  the  would-be  diner.    It  is  his  duty  to 


TABLE  MANNERS 73 

arrive  within  fifteen  minutes  of  the  hour  set 
in  the  invitation.  One  thing,  however,  he  must 
avoid  in  his  efforts  to  get  there  on  time.  He 
must  not  arrive  even  one  minute  before  the 
time  indicated.  Few  things  may  provoke  more 
annoyance  on  the  part  of  the  hostess  than  the 
too-previous  guest.  The  hostess  is  expected  in 
the  drawing-room  promptly  on  the  hour  set, 
but  she  may  not  be  ready  for  you  before  the 
exact  hour,  and  a  too-previous  arrival  may  do 
much  to  disturb  the  even  temperament  of  the 
hostess. 

THE  GTTEST  AT  TABLE 

Wlien  once  seated  in  the  dining-room  with 
the  lady  with  whom  you  are  expected  to  cast 
your  lot  during  the  dinner,  you  are  expected  to 
do  more  than  eat.  A  special  short  chapter 
will  be  found  in  another  part  of  this  volume, 
which  speaks  of  the  proper  use  to  be  made  of 
the  knives,  forks,  etc.  A  word  may  be  spoken 
here,  however,  in  regard  to  the  general  bear- 
ing. One  should  not  help  himself  too  liberally 
to  the  various  courses,  or  make  flattering  and 
audible  comments  upon  their  quality.  Neither 
should  any  dish  be  refused,  even  if  the  guest  is 
dieting  and  knows  the  particular  dish  will  be 
harmful  to  his  digestion  or  not  quite  to  his 
taste;  for  the  hostess  may  observe  and  be 


74  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

thrown  into  needless  anxiety  as  to  the  thorough- 
ness of  the  enjoyment  she  is  distributing — or 
the  adverse  comment  of  other  diners  may  be 
excited.  Better  far,  take  a  little  of  each  dish 
and  pretend  to  relish  it. 

The  fact  that  a  gentleman  takes  a  lady  in  to 
dinner  does  not  necessarily  indicate  that  his 
entire  conversation  and  attention  must  be 
directed  at  her  exclusively.  A  gentleman  is 
expected  to  entertain  his  lady  partner  to  the 
best  of  his  ability,  but  not  to  the  exclusion  of 
the  others  near  at  hand,  nor  need  he  deny  him- 
self the  pleasure  of  general  conversation  alto- 
gether. 

Guests  may  leave  as  soon  as  dinner  is  over- 
it  would  not  be  polite  to  leave  before;  and  it 
would  be  better  to  remain  where  possible  for  at 
least  ten  minutes  or  such  a  matter,  for  in  the 
large  centres  many  entertainments  may  occur 
on  the  same  evening,  and  some  of  the  diners 
may  be  in  great  demand  at  other  functions ;  so 
that  ten  minutes  in  the  drawing-room  is  suffi- 
cient courtesy,  and,  with  proper  explanations, 
the  busy  guest  may  go  on  to  the  next  function. 

ADIEUX   TO    THE   HOSTESS 

Personal  leave-taking  of  the  hostess  must  not 
be  omitted.  Even  in  numerous  company,  or  if 
the  hostess  is  much  engaged  at  the  moment,  the 


TABLE  MANNERS  75 

retiring  guest  must  seeli  her  out,  and  with 
graceful  thanlvs  for  her  hospitality,  bid  her 
adieu.  Tlie  same  is  true  of  the  host,  except 
that,  having  made  the  graceful  speech  to  his 
wife,  it  need  not  be  repeated  so  impressively 
to  him.  One  is  also  expected  to  bid  adieu  to 
friends  who  may  be  among  the  company,  but 
not  necessarily  to  new  acquaintances;  if  they 
be  at  a  distance,  a  simple  bow  is  sufficient.  In 
the  case  of  a  gentleman,  however,  he  will  of 
coiirse  cross  the  room,  if  need  be,  to  give  fare- 
well to  the  lady  who  gave  him  her  arm  at 
dinner. 


INTEODUCTIONS 

An  effective  introduction  is  rare;  the  cere- 
mony, though  a  slight  one,  is  yet  full  of  im- 
portance, and,  in  the  varied  phases  that  sur- 
round it,  one  finds  opportunity  and  need  for  all 
the  tact  and  grace  at  her  command.  No  elab- 
orate formula  need  be  studied;  the  simplest 
form  is  always  the  best;  and  as  the  object  in 
view  is  that  the  unacquainted  parties  may 
learn  each  other's  names,  for  humanity's  sake 
avoid  the  common  fault  of  sliding  the  names 
in  a  half -articulate  murmur — as  if  they  were 
not  worth  mentioning— but  (to  paraphrase  0. 
W.  Holmes) 

"  Speak  clearly  if  you  speak  at  all; 
Carve  every  name  before  you  let  it  fall  " ; 

and  your  guests  will  not  need  to  begin  a  con- 
versation by  begging  each  other's  pardon  for 
not  "  catching  the  name." 

Introducing  men  and  women,  the  gentleman 
is  presented  to  the  lady,  and  her  name  should 
be  mentioned  first—"  Mrs.  Eoberts,  let  me  pre- 
sent Mr.  Grey  ";  when  a  man  makes  the  intro- 
duction, he  may  say,  ' '  Miss  Trent,  allow  me  to 
present  my  friend  Mr.  Sanders,  who  is  desirous 
76 


INTRODUCTIONS  77 


to  know  you,"  thus  conveying  a  delicate  com- 
pliment. 

When  there  is  marked  difference  in  the  ages, 
the  younger  woman  is  presented  to  the  older, 
or  the  unmarried  woman  to  the  matron;  a 
young  man  to  a  venerable  gentleman,  and  a 
plain  member  of  society  to  a  titled  or  distin- 
guished personage.  On  ordinary  occasions 
merely  to  mention  the  names  is  sufficient. 
"  Mrs.  Vernon — this  is  Mrs.  Samoret." 
"  Mrs.  Wrayburn — Mr.  Lightwood." 
Do  not  make  the  mistake  of  following  the 
obsolete  custom  of  leading  a  lady  around  the 
room,  and  introducing  her  to  all  in  rotation. 
In  making  a  lady  known  to  a  number  at  once, 
the  hostess  would  say:  "  Mrs.  Woodcourt,  let 
me  present  Miss  Summers  on— Miss  Edith  Sum- 
merson— and  Mr.  Warren";  or,  if  "The 
Young  Person  "  is  the  subject  of  this  somewhat 
trying  experience,  anything  but  mentioning  the 
names  may  be  dispensed  with,  as,  "  Miss 
Nichols,  Mrs.  Sawyer";  "Miss  Brown,  Mr. 
Brown." 

It  sometimes  happens  that  at  the  critical  mo- 
ment the  name  of  a  guest  cannot  be  recalled; 
or,  as  has  in  reality  occurred,  the  hostess  may 
substitute  her  own  name  or  some  other  equally 
familiar  for  that  of  the  stranger  she  desires  to 
present;  but  these  tricks  of  memory  need  not 


78  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

be  considei-ed  blunders — a  little  ready  wit  will 
save  the  occasion  from  embarrassment,  and, 
indeed,  may  break  the  ice  of  formality  and  in- 
stitute a  "  flow  of  soul  "  that  otherwise  might 
have  had  to  struggle  for  existence. 

The  tactful  hostess  when  introducing  two 
guests  will,  if  possible,  add  a  few  pleasant 
words,  disclosing  to  the  new  acquaintances  that 
they  have  some  interest  in  common.  As  for 
instance:  "  Miss  Miller,  let  me  introduce  Mr. 
Mason,  an  enthusiastic  Wagnerite  like  your- 
self ";  or,  "  Mrs.  Chalmers,  may  I  present  Mr. 
Carter— he  has  just  returned  from  your  favor- 
ite city,  Venice." 

It  is  not  unusual  for  one  to  become  the  means 
of  making  people  known  to  each  other  who  have 
expressed  a  mutual  desire  for  acquaintance, 
and  the  occasion  may  be  recognized  by  some 
happy  expression,  as: 

' '  I  have  great  pleasure,  Mrs.  Martyn,  in  pre- 
senting Mr.  Trowbridge;"  or,  "Mrs.  Bard- 
well,  I  am  very  glad  of  this  opportunity  to  pre- 
sent Dr.  Davis." 

When  introducing  one's  relatives  little  cere- 
mony is  used:  "  This  is  my  mother,  Mr. 
Smith";  "Miss  Lawrence,  my  brother  has 
been  wishing  to  know  you,"  or  any  similar 
mode,  is  preferable  to  anything  formal. 

To  extend  the  hand  when  acknowledging  a^ 


INTRODUCTIONS  79 


introduction  is  an  indication  of  cordial  feeling; 
and  in  her  own  house  a  woman  never  neglects 
this  gracious  greeting  when  any  one  is  pre- 
sented to  her,  with  a  genial  expression  of  pleas- 
ure, as,  "  I  am  very  glad  to  know  you,  Mrs. 
Perry  ";  or,  "  It  is  a  great  pleasure  to  meet 
you,  Mr.  Eobinson." 

In  ceremonious  society,  however,  none  but 
the  hostess  thus  welcomes  an  introduction;  it 
is  considered  sufficient  recognition  for  a  woman 
to  bow  politely  and  simply  repeat  the  name  of 
the  person  introduced,  for  the  ultra-fashionable 
world  considers  handshaking  a  much  too  ef- 
fusive greeting  to  bestow  upon  a  stranger. 
Natural  impulse  should  be  veiled  behind  a  uni- 
form of  reserve,  which  indicates  a  character 
like  that  of  the  Church  of  the  Laodiceans — 
"  neither  cold  nor  hot  " — but  appearances  are 
more  often  than  not  deceitful. 

Strict  form  may  be  commended  as  being  con- 
venient in  crowded  rooms;  and  a  young  lady 
may  always  refrain  from  pronounced  enthusi- 
asm; but  on  most  occasions  extreme  ceremony 
is  embarrassing  and  leaves  an  unpleasant  im- 
pression, thwarting  the  real  purpose  of  social 
life,  mutual  good-fellowship,  and  enjoyment. 
The  woman  who  has  a  right  to  the  initiative 
will  make  no  mistake  in  customarily  offering 
her  hand. 


80  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

The  hostess  rises  in  receiving  all  introduc- 
tions; a  woman,  when  a  g-uest,  does  not  rise 
when  a  man  is  presented,  or  when  she  is  one  of 
a  group  to  whom  a  woman  is  introduced,  imless 
the  newcomer  is  older  than  she,  or  is  a  distin- 
guished character;  if  seated  beside  the  hostess, 
who  of  course  rises  in  greeting,  she  then  rises 
also — and  under  all  other  circumstances.  She 
rises  in  recei^^ng  an  introduction  to  another 
woman.  It  is  almost  unnecessary  to  say  that  a 
man  invariably  stands  in  taking  part  in  any 
introduction  to  any  person. 

A  guest  may  not  refuse  to  accept  an  intro- 
duction made  by  host  or  hostess,  even  though 
it  should  be  to  his  "  dearest  foe  ";  the  hostess, 
it  is  to  be  presumed,  knows  nothing  of  the  real 
state  of  affairs,  or  she  would  avoid  the  risk  of 
causing  embarrassment.  And  it  is  no  detrac- 
tion from  one's  dignity  to  bow  politely,  as 
though  to  a  perfect  stranger;  further  com- 
munication can  be  unostentatiously  avoided. 
The  unusual  but  actual  incident  once  occurred 
of  a  lady's  accepting  the  introduction  to  an- 
other whom  she  did  not  care  to  know — three 
times  in  one  evening,  at  a  rather  crowded  re- 
ception; each  time  she  bowed  graciously — and 
then  became  quietly  unconscious  of  the  other's 
presence. 


INTRODUCTIONS 


THE   TIME  FOR  INTRODUCTIONS 

The  hostess  is  privileged  to  introduce  to  each 
other  any  persons  who  may  be  under  her  roof. 
In  fashionable  English  society  it  is  the  custom 
to  consider  the  mutual  acquaintance  of  guests 
and  hostess  as  "  tantamount  " — as  Mr.  Guppy 
would  say — to  an  introduction,  which  is  doubt- 
less correct  in  theory,  and  under  certain  cir- 
cumstances ;  but  American  society  is  so  cosmo- 
politan in  character  that  we  find  it  is  "  a  con- 
dition, not  a  theory,  that  confronts  us  ";  and 
this  liberal  acceptance  of  the  privileges  of  hos- 
pitality is  not  always  practicable.  The  tactful 
hostess  will  see  that  her  guests  are  presented 
to  one  another;  she  will  thus  place  them  upon 
a  pleasanter  footing  to  start  with,  and  save  the 
timid  especially  from  embarrassment. 

At  a  small  dinner  the  hostess  is  under  obli- 
gation to  introduce  all  her  guests  to  one  an- 
other; at  a  large  dinner  party  those  who  are 
to  go  in  to  the  table  together  must  certainly  be 
introduced,  and  as  many  more  as  the  hostess 
can  bring  together  without  disturbing  her 
guests  or  making  obvious  effort  on  her  part; 
but  introductions  must  not  be  made  at  the  table. 
Guests  gather  in  the  drawing-room,  where 
those  who  have  not  met  before  may  be  easily 
and  gracefully  made  known  to  each  other. 


82  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


On  her  "  At  Home  "  day  the  h\dy  receiving 
introduces  every  newcomer  to  the  guests  who 
may  be  near;  at  a  reception  she  presents  the 
arrivals  to  those  who  assist  her  in  receix-ing, 
but  does  not,  only  as  a  rare  exception,  leave  her 
place  to  make  introductions. 

At  a  private  ball,  the  hostess  introduces  her 
guests  as  they  enter  to  whoever  receives  with 
her,  and  makes  as  many  introductions  as  pos- 
sible during  the  evening. 

Chaperons  present  dancing  men  to  their 
charges  as  they  have  opportunity ;  but  at  small 
private  dances  the  young  people  do  not  as  a 
rule  wait  for  the  hostess  or  chaperon  to  per- 
form the  necessary  introductions.  They  find  it 
more  convenient,  and  much  better  fun,  no 
doubt,  to  take  the  matter  into  their  own  hands 
when  occasions  arise.  Girls  introduce  their 
partners  to  other  girls,  and  young  men  see  to 
it  that  their  male  friends  know  their  young 
Avomen  friends.  At  a  private  dance  the  host- 
ess must  not  forget  throughout  the  evening  to 
have  a  watchful  eye  for  possible  wall-flowers. 
She  who  can  save  the  unpopular  or  unattrac- 
tive girl  a  dull  or  embarrassing  evening,  with- 
out seeming  to  have  that  object  in  view,  will 
have  accomplished  a  graceful  and  kindly  act 
and  one  of  no  small  difficulty. 

At    public    halls    introductions    are    not    ex- 


INTRODUCTIONS  83 


pected.  There  is  no  hostess  proper  here,  aud 
the  matter  of  looking  up  and  introducing  part- 
ners for  the  dances  belongs  to  the  chaperon,  or 
the  escort  of  a  young  woman. 

Introductions  in  the  street  are  seldom  neces- 
sary when  walking  with  a  friend.     Should  one 
meet  another  friend  to  whom  his  companion  is 
unknown,  there  is  no  real  need  of  introducing 
the  two,  even  though  a  momentary  pause  is 
made  for  the  exchange  of  civilities.    If,  how- 
ever, the  conversation  seems  likely  to  be  pro- 
longed, then  introduction  should  be  made.   Many 
people  seem  possessed  of  a  mania  for  intro- 
ducing.   Introductions  are  thrust  upon  their 
friends  in  the  most  awkward  places  and  at  awk- 
ward times.     One  hurrying  to  keep  a  business 
engagement    steps    into    an    elevator    to    be 
whisked  to  the  top  floor  of  a  building.     In  the 
"  car  "    he    finds    an    acquaintance — one    of 
the    introduction   friends— accompanied   by    a 
stranger,  whom  she  feels  obliged  to  introduce, 
although    the    words    of    the    ceremony    arc 
scarcely   spoken   before   the   unhappy   victim 
must  awkwardly  doff  his  hat  and  hasten  from 
the  elevator.    The  chronic  introducer  knows  no 
limitation   in  her   effort   to   be    sociable   and 
friendly;  she  would  feel  awkward  and  embar- 
rassed if  compelled  to  stand  for  a  moment  be- 
tween two  acquaintances  who  were  not  known 


84  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

to  each  othei" ;  therefore  she  hastens,  regardless 
of  the  inconvenience  of  the  meeting-place,  to 
"  do  the  honors."  Don't  introduce  "  right  or 
left."  It  is  not  expected  of  you;  and  if  you 
are  walking  with  a  friend  who  meets  one  who 
is  a  stranger  to  you,  don't  consider  it  a  slight 
if  you  are  not  immediately  presented.  Should 
your  friend  keep  you  waiting  beyond  consid- 
erate limits  without  an  introduction,  you  are 
at  liberty  to  stroll  on  without  him. 

LETTERS  OF  INTEODUCTION 

A  letter  of  introduction  is,  or  should  be,  an 
unsolicited  courtesy.  To  ask  for  a  letter  of 
introduction  is,  for  various  reasons,  not  in 
good  taste,  and  no  man  or  woman  of  good 
breeding  would  offend  in  this  particular. 
Should  one  be  asked  for  a  letter  of  introduction 
which  he  felt  the  slightest  hesitancy  about  giv- 
ing he  would  be  quite  justified  in  refusing  it; 
in  doing  so,  he  should  not  wound  the  appli- 
cant's feelings.  A  person  of  tact  can  manage 
a  delicate  point  of  this  kind  without  gi^dng 
offence. 

It  is  usual,  in  sending  one  friend  to  another 
with  a  letter  of  introduction,  to  write  in  ad- 
vance to  the  prospective  recipient  of  the  intro- 
duction, giving  him  more  detailed  information 
regarding  the  bearer  of  the  letter  than  could 


INTRODUCTIONS  85 


conveniently  or  properly  be  written  in  the  letter 
itself. 

A  letter  of  introduction  contains  little  beside 
the  few  words  necessary  to  make  the  two  people 
known  to  each  other;  there  is  usually  a 
courteous  line,  to  the  effect  that  any  attention 
shown  to  the  caller  will  be  appreciated. 

In  writing  an  introduction,  do  not  fall  into 
the  error  of  mentioning  personal  matters  in 
the  same  letter. 

A  letter  of  introduction  is  usually  somewhat 
as  follows : 

My  Deak  Mks.  Baeten  : 

It  gives  me  much  pleasure  to  introduce  to 
you  my  friend  Miss  Wylie,  who  ivill  make  your 
city  her  home  for  several  months  while  pursu- 
ing her  musical  studies.  Any  courtesy  you 
may  extend  to  her  ivill  he  deeply  appreciated. 
With  kindest  regards,  I  am, 

Sincerely  yours, 

Kathebine  H.  Miller. 

A  letter  of  introduction  is  not  sealed ;  to  seal 
a  note  of  this  kind  would  be  a  discourtesy  to 
the  bearer.  A  card  of  introduction  is  a  simpler 
affair.  One's  visiting  card  is  used  for  this 
purpose  with  the  name  of  the  friend  one  desires 
to  introduce  written  at  the  top,  thus: 


86  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

Introducing  Miss  Edith  Bioivne 
Mrs.  William  Grey 
37  Maple  Avenue 

This  is  enclosed  in  a  card  envelope,  and,  like 
the  letter,  is  left  unsealed.  In  addition  to  the 
address,  one  may  write  on  the  envelope  in  the 
lower  left-hand  corner,  "  Introducing  Miss 
Edith  Browne."  A  man  usually  presents  a 
note  of  introduction  in  person.  He  calls  at  the 
house,  during  the  proper  calling  hours,  whether 
afternoon  or  evening,  and  presents  both  the 
letter  and  his  own  visiting  card.  He  may  be 
received  at  once;  but  in  case  the  person  upon 
whom  he  has  called  is  not  at  home,  it  is  usual 
to  place  his  personal  visiting  card  in  the  en- 
velope with  the  letter  or  card  of  introduction, 
to  seal  the  envelope,  and  leave  it  with  the  ser- 
vant to  be  delivered.  A  woman  generally  de- 
livers a  note  of  introduction  through  the 
medium  of  Uncle  Sam's  post  office.  She  en- 
closes her  own  card  with  her  address  thereon, 
puts  a  stamp  on  the  envelope,  and  waits  to  be 
called  upon. 

Upon  receiving  a  letter  of  introduction  from 
a  woman,  one  should  go  very  promptly  to  call 
upon  her,  and  should  afterward  extend  to  her 
suitable  form  of  hospitality. 


INTRODUCTIONS  87 


Upon  receiving  a  letter  of  introduction  from 
a  man,  a  note  of  acknowledgment  should  be  sent 
to  him,  followed  by  an  invitation  to  dinner  or 
by  the  offer  of  some  other  courtesy.  A  man 
who  receives  a  letter  introducing  a  man  Is 
under  obligations  to  call  upon  him  and  to  enter- 
tain him  to  the  best  of  his  ability. 

When  from  any  cause  one  can  neither  call 
upon  nor  extend  invitations  to  the  bearer  of  a 
letter  of  introduction,  a  note  of  explanation 
and  kindly  regrets  should  be  sent  to  him 
promptly. 

A  lady  introduced  by  letter  to  a  man  simply 
mails  the  letter  to  him  with  her  card,  and  may 
expect  him  to  call  within  a  few  days.  His  call 
should  be  followed  by  courtesies  which  he  can 
properly  offer,  but  he  should  not  merely  call 
and  then  let  the  acquaintanceship  drop.  This 
would  not  be  kind  either  to  the  writer  or  bearer 
of  the  letter. 

It  is  graceful  on  the  part  of  the  receiver  of 
a  letter  of  introduction  to  write  a  pleasant  note 
later  on  to  the  friend  who  wrote  it. 


CAEDS 

The  etiquette  of  a  man's  card  being  simpler, 
we  will  dispose  of  him  first,  so  as  to  make  way 
for  the  lady. 

A  man's  card  is  much  smaller  than  a 
woman's,  and  may,  for  convenience  of  carry- 
ing in  the  waistcoat  pocket,  be  very  thin,  but 
should  be  of  the  finest  quality  and  the  neatest 
design,  always  engraved,  not  printed,  nor,  ex- 
cept in  emergency,  written.  This  is  the  most 
preferred  style  and  size : 


Mr.  John  Henry  Ford 

5  West  33rd  Street 


Unless  followed  by  "  Jr.,"  the  title  "Mr." 
should  never  be  omitted.  A  bachelor  may  have 
his  home  address  in  the  right-hand  corner,  and 
that  of  his  favorite  club  in  the  left,  or,  if  of 


CARDS ^ 

nomadic  habits,  the  dub  address  only  on  the 
right-hand  side. 

A  business  address  must  never  appear  on  a 
visiting  card.  If  possible,  every  Christian 
name  should  appear  in  full,  but  if  this  form  is 
too  long,  an  initial  may  be  substituted  for  the 
second  name,  but  not  for  the  first— "  Mr. 
James  K.  Hamilton  "  looks  far  better  than 
would  "  Mr.  J.  Kimberley  Hamilton." 

The  eldest  male  member  of  a  family  may  dis- 
pense with  the  Christian  name  and  appear  as 
"  Mr.  Hamilton,"  especially  if  he  be  of  the  old- 
est branch  of  the  family.  Ben,  Jim,  Hal,  and 
such  contractions  neither  add  to  the  dignity  or 
appearance  of  a  card,  and  should  never  be  seen. 

Although  some  wealthy  bachelors  do  give 
delightful  "  At  Homes  "  during  the  season, 
such  dates  never  appear  on  a  man's  card.  This 
is  a  privilege  of  a  lady  and  a  hostess  which 
must  not  be  encroached  on. 

TITLES   ON   CARDS 

Americans  are  most  prone  to  the  use  of  all 
possible  titles,  and  a  society  notice  will  read: 
"  Mr.  Sub-deputy-assistant-eoUector  Jinks  is  a 
great  favorite  with  the  ladies  of  Little-ville." 
Keep  these  titles  off  your  visiting  cards.  The 
only  persons  whose  titles  are  seen  on  cards  are 
the  President  and  Vice-President  of  the  United 


90  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


States,  ambassadors,  justices  of  the  higher 
courts,  clergymen,  and  officers  in  the  regular 
army  and  navy  above  the  rank  of  lieutenant. 

The  school-teacher,  self -dubbed  "  Profes- 
sor," and  local  magistrates  known  as  "  Judge," 
should  be  most  particularly  careful  to  be  satis- 
fied with  plain  "  Mr."  on  their  cards. 

The  card  of  a  lieutenant  in  the  army  should 
state  simply  "  Mr.  John  Victor  Allen,"  with 
"  United  States  Army  "  in  the  right-hand  cor- 
ner of  the  card,  whilst  captains,  majors,  etc., 
place  the  title  before  the  full  name  and  desig- 
nate in  the  corner  whether  of  artillery,  cavalry, 
infantry,  or  the  engineering  corps. 

A  Judge  of  the  Supreme  Court  places  "  Mr. 
Justice  "  before  either  his  surname  or  full 
name,  as,  "  Mr.  Justice  Allen  "  or  "  Mr.  Jus- 
tice John  William  Allen." 

A  clergjTuan  styles  himself  ' '  Eeverend  Sam- 
uel James  PuUsford,"  or  the  contraction 
"  Rev."  is  quite  allowable.  The  professional 
card  of  a  physician  usually  states  his  office 
hours  and  address,  and  should  never  be  used 
for  social  purposes;  it  might  look  like  adver- 
tising. The  social  card  states  "  Dr.  James 
Neill,"  or  better,  "  James  Neill,  M.  D.,"  with 
his  home  address  in  the  right-hand  corner. 
Avoid  a  boastful  card.  A  clergyman  may  use 
"  D.  D."  after  his  name,  without  "  Eev."  be- 


CARDS  9J 

fore,  if  lie  lias  the  degree,  but  no  man  should 
string  a  list  of  degrees,  titles,  honors,  or  names 
of  societies  on  a  visiting  card. 

HOW  A  MAN  USES  CARDS 

The  young  man,  in  his  eagerness  towards  a 
particular  lady,  often  forgets  the  courtesy  due 
her  mother  or  chaperon  and  the  other  ladies  of 
the  home,  and  sends  up  to  or  leaves  only  one 
card  for  the  lady  in  question.  This  is  ill-ad- 
vised besides  ill-mannered.  Two  cards  should 
always  be  sent  up  or  left,  one  for  the  mother 
or  chaperon,  who  is  at  any  rate  his  hostess, 
however  little  he  wishes  to  see  her.  The  other 
card  is  for  all  the  ladies  in  the  home,  if  there 
be  others,  and  he  should  ask,  not  especially  for 
"  her,"  but  for  the  ladies.  If  not  unwilling, 
"  she  "  will  part  herself  from  the  others  with- 
out fail.  Should  the  ladies  be  at  home,  and  one 
or  more  see  him,  he  will  in  addition  leave  a 
card  for  his  host  in  the  hall  as  he  goes  out. 

After  a  man  has  been  presented  to  a  lady,  he 
may  be  in  doubt  whether  his  acquaintance  will 
be  agreeable  to  her,  and  be  too  delicate  to  ask 
whether  he  may  have  the  pleasure  of  calling  on 
her.  In  this  case  he  may  leave  his  card  at  her 
residence,  and  if  he  is  welcome,  her  mother  or 
chaperon  will  send  him  an  invitation  to  visit 
the  family  or  perhaps  to  some  entertainment 


%  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


at  the  home.  After  this  he  will  understand 
that  his  visits  are  desired,  and  continue  to  call 
to  pay  his  respects.  If  the  lady's  list  of  ac- 
quaintances be  already  too  extensive,  his  card 
may  be  disregarded,  and  he  must  wait  for 
recognition  from  the  ladies  of  the  household 
when  he  meets  them  again. 

A  call  made  by  a  man  on  a  lady  on  her  "  At 
Home  "  day  needs  no  card  either  sent  up  or 
left  unless  it  be  his  first  call  of  the  season,  or 
he  wishes  to  take  advantage  of  the  opportunity 
to  leave  a  card  in  acknowledgment  of  hospi- 
tality he  has  received.  Such  entertainment  re- 
quires the  leaving  of  only  one  card— this  for 
his  host. 

The  card  left  on  a  first  call  shows  his  address 
for  the  season. 

CAED   INTRODUCING   A   MAN 

A  man  may  be  introduced  by  card  or  letter, 
the  introducer  writing  "  Introducing  Mr.  So- 
and-So  "  on  the  top  left-hand  corner  of  his  or 
her  card.  If  the  introduction  is  to  a  lady  or 
ladies  the  gentleman  should  call  in  person  and 
hand  this  card  with  his  own  to  the  servant. 

A  card  of  introduction  to  another  man  may 
be  posted  along  with  his  own.  The  receiver 
of  both  should  recognize  the  introduction  in 
person  within  three  days,  or,  if  for  any  reason 


CARDS  93 

this  be  impossible,  lie  should  send  a  card  by 
special  messenger  with  an  explanation  and  the 
offer  of  such  courtesies  as  his  relations  with 
the  introducer  call  forth. 

ladies'  visiting  caeds 

A  lady's  card  should  also  be  of  the  very  best 
material  and  quality.  One  of  white  bristol 
board  of  medium  thickness,  polished  but  not 
glazed,  without  bevelled  or  gilt  edges  or  super- 
fluous decoration  of  any  kind,  shows  good  taste 
and  knowledge  of  the  best  usages. 

The  card  is  engraved,  not  printed;  black, 
script,  or  Old  English  lettering  is  equally  suit- 
able. 

Married  ladies  use  a  rather  larger  card  than 
do  single,  of  size  and  style  like  these: 


Mrs.  William  Henry  Jones 


131  Troop  St. 


94  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


Miss  Helen  Jones 


131  Troop  St. 


Cards  of  the  best  people  show  the  full  Chris- 
tian name  as  well  as  the  surname, ' '  Mrs.  James 
Kimberley  Hamilton  "  showing  more  style  than 
"  Mrs.  James  K.  Hamilton,"  and  "  Miss  Helen 
Elizabeth  Brown"  than  "Miss  Helen  E. 
Brown."  Pet  names  and  diminutives  like  Liz- 
zie, Moll,  Peggy,  should  be  strictly  avoided. 

The  wife  of  the  eldest  member  of  the  oldest 
branch  of  a  family  may  drop  her  husband's 
Christian  name  and  style  herself  ' '  Mrs.  Sturte- 
vant,"  and  her  eldest  daughter  may  leave  out 
her  Christian  name  and  be  "  Miss  Sturtevaut," 
but  if  there  are  several  families  of  the  name  in 
the  same  locality,  to  avoid  confusion  it  is  better 
to  follow  the  general  rule.  In  America  a  lady's 
card  always  reads  "  Mrs."  or  "  Miss,"  and 
should  never  be  -n-ithout  one  or  the  other;  she 
does  not  share  her  husband's  title  and  should 


CARDS        _95 

be  very  careful  not  to  borrow  it  for  her  card. 
The  wife  of  the  President  is  "  Mrs.  Theodore 
Roosevelt,"  and  of  General  Miles  "  Mrs.  Nel- 
son A.  Miles."  If  one  lady  may  style  herself 
"  Mrs.  Mayor  Upstart,"  it  is  just  as  appropri- 
ate for  another  to  be  "  Mrs.  Janitor  Brown," 
or  "  Mrs.  Street-cleaner  Scoop." 

The  lady  who  has  earned  the  title  of  doctor, 
and  practises  medicine,  does  not  state  as  much 
on  her  visiting  cards.  She  uses  two  different 
sets:  one  for  professional  purposes,  with  "  Dr. 
Elizabeth  Ransome  "  or  "  Elizabeth  Ransome, 
M.  D.,"  as  the  style,  whilst  her  social  card, 
"  Mrs."  or  "  Miss,"  as  the  case  may  be,  has 
no  title,  and  has  her  home  address  engraved  on 
the  right-hand  corner. 

A  lady  whose  husband  has  the  same  name  as 
his  father  often  adds  "  Junior  "  or  "  Jr."  to 
her  name  on  her  card,  so  as  to  make  a  distinc- 
tion from  the  card  of  her  mother-in-law.  If 
her  husband's  father  dies  she  leaves  out  the 
"  Jr.,  "  while  her  mother-in-law  places  "  Sr." 
on  her  card.  If  both  ladies  become  widows  and 
wish  to  keep  their  husbands'  Christian  names, 
the  younger  lady  uses  "  Jr."  and  the  elder 
leaves  out  the  "  Sr." 

A  Widoio  has  the  choice  of  using  her  own 
Christian  names  or  those  of  her  late  husband. 
The  widow  of  Mr.  William  Henry  Jones  may 


96  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

have  on  her  cards  either  ' '  Mrs.  William  Henry 
Jones  "  or  "  Mrs.  Bertha  Helen  Jones." 

Another  fashion  in  vogue  is  for  a  widow  or 
divorced  woman  to  use  her  maiden  surname 
with  that  of  her  late  husband;  a  lady  whose 
maiden  name  was  Miss  Harrison  and  husband's 
name  Burton  may,  on  widowhood  or  divorce, 
call  herself  "  Mrs.  Harrison  Burton." 

A  Divorced  Woman  naturally  wishes  to  for- 
get her  former  husband,  and  never  displays  his 
Christian  name  on  her  card.  She  may,  if  she 
wishes,  retain  his  surname  with  her  own  Chris- 
tian or  surname,  but  usually  prefers  to  resume 
her  full  maiden  name  with  the  prefix  "  Mrs." 
instead  of  "  Miss." 

"  At  Home  "  Days. — A  lady  usually  has  en- 
graved in  the  left-hand  corner  of  her  card  a 
day  of  the  week  on  which  she  will  be  "at 
home  " — Tuesdays,  Thursdays,  or  Fridays,  as 
the  case  may  be.  This  signifies  that  she  will 
receive  callers  on  the  day  specified  between 
three  and  six.  Some  ladies  have  their  after- 
noons once  or  twice  a  month,  and  the  card  states 
"  first  Monday,"  "  second  and  fourth  Tues- 
day," which  means  the  first  Monday  or  second 
and  fourth  Tuesday  in  every  month.  Ladies 
who  do  not  wish  to  receive  after  a  certain  date 
add  "  until  Lent,"  or  "  until  April,"  as  they 
mav  desire. 


CARDS  97 

A  Young  Lady  in  her  first  season,  if  her 
mother  has  introduced  her  and  is  her  chaperon, 
does  not  carry  her  own  card.  Her  name  is 
placed  on  a  large  card  below  that  of  her 
mother : 

Mrs.  William  Jones 

Miss  Helen  Jones 

She  is  expected  in  her  first  season  to  pay  calls 
with  her  mother,  and  of  course  assists  at  her 
mother's  "  At  Home."  She  uses  the  same 
card  if  she  pays  a  call  alone,  running  a  pencil 
mark  through  her  mother's  name. 

Should  a  younger  sister  be  introduced  next 
season,  or  two  sisters  "  come  out  "  at  the  same 
time,  the  daughters'  names  would  appear  below 
that  of  the  mother,  as,  "  The  Misses  Hamil- 
ton." After  a  season  or  two,  if  a  young  lady 
begins  to  call  alone,  she  may  have  a  separate 
card,  but  without  specifying  a  day  at  home,  as 
this  will  be  understood  to  be  the  same  as  her 
mother's.  Even  after  some  years  in  society, 
so  long  as  the  daughters  remain  unmarried,  it 
is  well  to  keep  the  joint  card  in  addition  to  their 
own,  for  it  will  always  be  serviceable  whenever 
they  do  call  with  their  mother,  wish  to  announce 
their  day  at  home,  change  of  address,  and  in 


98  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

all  circumstances  in  which  their  mother  is  also 
included. 

Married  Couples  have  a  card,  rather  larger 
than  the  wife's,  which  does  not  mention  "  At 
Home,"  and  is  not  used  for  answering  calls. 
This  card  is  allowed  a  lady  on  returning  from 
her  honeymoon,  and  is  used  in  sending  a  pres- 
ent which  comes  also  from  her  husband,  in  for- 
warding their  combined  regrets  in  answer  to 
invitations,  and  so  forth.  This  joint  card  is 
often  enclosed  with  a  wedding  invitation  to 
show  where  the  home  of  the  bride  and  groom 
will  be. 

HOW    A   LADY   USES   HEB   CABD 

Never,  on  any  account,  carry  a  card  into  the 
drawing-room  and  present  it  to  the  hostess.  It 
is  the  servant's  business  to  take  cards  when 
necessary,  but  most  occasions  simply  require 
them  to  be  left  on  a  tray,  which  is  always  placed 
conspicuously  in  the  hall. 

There  was  a  time  when  a  lady  had  to  carry 
whole  packs  of  cards  and  leave  one  for  every 
member  of  a  household,  repeating  this  bounty 
at  every  visit.  There  was  also  a  custom  of 
folding  the  edges  of  cards  left  when  a  person 
was  not  at  home.  One  side  folded  meant  one 
thing  and  the  other  another,  whilst  the  servant 
would  frequently  turn  down  a  corner,  perhaps 


CARDS        99 

for  luck,  so  that  the  card  was  scarcely  fit  to  be 
seen  when  all  hands  had  finished  with  it. 

Simpler  methods  prevail  nowadays,  so  that 
the  average  mmd  can  readily  cope  with  modern 
card  etiquette. 

Most  calls  are  made  on  the  appointed  "  At 
Home  "  day,  and  cards  are  left  on  the  tray  in 
the  hall  on  the  way  to  the  drawing-room,  but 
if  calls  are  restricted  to  these  "  At  Homes," 
cards  are  only  needed  on  two  occasions.  If  the 
call  is  the  first  of  the  season,  a  lady  should  leave 
one  of  her  own  cards  with  two  of  her  husband's, 
and  if  the  call  is  made  in  return  for  hospitality 
received  at  the  home,  the  same  disposition  of 
cards  is  made,  providing  the  hostess  is  a  mar- 
ried woman.  A  lady  leaves  two  of  her  hus- 
band's cards  and  one  of  her  own  because  it  is 
not  expected  that  a  lady  should  leave  her  card 
on  a  male  member  of  a  househola.  A  married 
woman  should  always  keep  a  stock  of  her  hus- 
band's cards,  and  be  careful  to  leave  them  at 
all  homes  where  he  has  received  hospitality. 
She  need  not  perform  this  office  for  her  sons 
or  bachelor  brothers,  as  it  is  their  business  to 
make  their  own  calls  and  acknowledgments. 

A  lady  does  not  leave  cards  for  unmarried 
daughters  of  the  hostess  if  they  are  receiving 
with  their  mother,  but  if  she  finds  a  married 
daughter  or  a  friend  assisting  at  the  reception, 


100  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

she  should,  on  going  away,  leave  one  of  her 
cards  for  this  friend  or  married  daughter. 

A  young  lady  who  uses  her  own  cards,  and 
finds  her  hostess  receiving  with  a  friend,  daugh- 
ter, or  female  relative,  leaves  two  cards  if  her 
call  is  the  first  of  the  season  or  in  return  for 
hospitality.  If  the  young  lady  is  a  frequent 
caller,  she  does  not  leave  cards  except  on  these 
occasions. 

On  paying  a  chance  call  on  mother  and  daugh- 
ters, or  hostess  and  friend,  and  finding  them  to 
be  out,  a  young  lady  leaves  two  cards,  but  she, 
just  as  a  matron,  must  never  leave  cards  on 
the  men  of  a  house.  If  a  call  be  made  on  a  lady 
visiting  at  a  home,  two  cards  are  required,  one 
for  the  hostess  as  well  as  the  friend,  whether 
the  hostess  knows  the  caller  or  not.  This  rule 
applies  to  men  as  well  as  women. 

It  sometimes  happens  that  two  maiden  ladies 
are  equally  mistress  of  an  establishment.  The 
married  lady  who  calls  on  them  for  the  first 
time  in  the  season,  or  after  being  entertained, 
leaves  two  of  her  husband's  cards  and  two  of 
her  own.  An  unmarried  lady  at  the  head  of 
her  father's  or  brother's  house  receives  the  same 
courtesy  in  the  matter  of  cards  as  a  matron  does. 

In  paying  calls  in  a  strange  city  or  neighbor- 
hood both  men  and  women  should  write  their 
temporary  address  on  their  cards  in  the  op- 


CARDS       lOt 

posite  corner  to  the  permanent  address.  On 
making  calls  at  hotels  it  is  just  as  well  to  write 
on  the  card  sent  up,  or  left,  the  name  of  the 
friend  for  whom  it  is  meant. 

CAKDS  OF  INTRODUCTION  FOE  LADIES 

Letters  of  introduction  are  not  in  such  com- 
mon use  as  formerly,  unless  an  explanation  is 
necessary.  The  introducing  lady  writes  neatly 
on  the  upper  left-hand  corner  of  her  card : 

IntrodxLcing 

Mrs.  William  Harcourt. 

The  card  is  enclosed  in  an  envelope  with  that 
of  the  lady  desiring  the  introduction,  and  may 
be  posted  or  sent  by  messenger.  The  lady  who 
receives  the  two  cards  must  call  in  person  on 
the  lady  introduced,  or  send  a  note  by  special 
messenger  explaining  her  omission  if  unable, 
from  any  cause,  to  do  so.  Nothing  less  is  pos- 
sible without  offending  the  introducing  party. 

CARDS  FOR  CHANCE  CALLS 

When  the  caller  is  not  sure  of  finding  her 
friend  at  home  a  slightly  different  card-pro- 
cedure obtains.  She  had  better  take  the  right 
number  of  cards  from  her  case  before  ringing 
the  bell.    If  she  is  single,  or,  if  married,  she  and 


J02  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

her  husband  have  not  been  recently  entertained 
at  the  house,  she  takes  two  of  her  own  cards, 
one  for  the  hostess  and  one  for  the  other  ladies. 
But  if  she  is  a  married  woman  calling  on  a 
married  woman  who  has  recently  invited  her  to 
a  dinner  or  dance,  she  takes  out  two  of  her  hus- 
band's cards  in  addition  to  two  of  her  own. 
Should  the  hostess  have  as  her  guest  a  sister, 
mother,  friend,  or  a  married  daughter,  the  lady 
caller  takes  out  three  of  her  own  cards. 

If  the  servant,  on  appearing,  says,  "  Not  at 
home,"  the  cards  are  handed  in  and  the  caller 
goes  on  her  way. 

If  the  ladies  send  down  word  that  they  are 
in  the  drawing-room,  she  places  the  cards  on 
the  tray  in  the  hall  as  she  passes  through. 

It  sometimes  happens  that  the  servant  is  not 
quite  sure  whether  her  mistress  is  at  home  or 
not ;  in  that  event  the  caller  gives  her  personal 
cards  only  and  waits  in  the  drawing-room  until 
the  servant  finds  out.  Should  the  ladies  not 
be  at  home,  she  adds  two  of  her  husband's  cards 
to  her  own  and  gives  them  all  to  the  servant 
whilst  departing.  If  the  ladies  do  appear,  she 
makes  the  call  and  subsequently  leaves  two  of 
her  husband's  cards  on  the  tray. 

After  a  personal  introduction,  chance  or 
otherwise,  the  lady  who  is  the  oldest  resident 
may,  if  she  chooses,  leave  a  card,  which  must 


CARDS  103 

be  acknowledged  in  a  week,  unless  the  "  At 
Home  ' '  day  is  denoted  on  the  card  of  the  first 
caller,  when  advantage  should  be  taken  of  that 
day.  Unless  agreeable  to  both,  no  further 
visiting  is  necessary. 

A  WOMAN   PAYING  A  BUSINESS  CALL 

A  woman  having  business  with  a  man  never 
sends  in  her  card.  She  need  only  give  her 
name  to  the  servant  or  clerk  along  with  a  short 
verbal  message  as  to  the  nature  of  her  business, 
or  she  may  write  her  name  and  the  message  on 
a  slip  of  paper. 

If  a  woman  pays  a  business  call  on  another 
woman  who  is  a  stranger  to  her,  she  sends  up 
a  card,  sometimes  scribbling  a  line  on  it  as  to 
her  errand,  or  else  giving  a  short  explanation 
to  the  servant. 

A  woman  may  also  have  occasion  to  call  on 
another  who,  though  quite  her  social  equal,  is 
a  stranger.  She  should  send  up  her  card  with 
an  explanation  of  her  i-eason  for  calling,  leav- 
ing the  card  and  message  if  the  lady  should  be 
out. 

A   STRANGER   LEAVING   CARDS 

A  man  or  woman  having  a  friend  staying  at 
the  house  often  takes  this  friend  along  while 
paying  calls.  In  this  event  the  question  may 
arise  as  to  the  proper  thing  to  be  done.    If  the 


104  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

friend  be  a  guest  for  two  or  three  weeks  or 
longer,  it  is  customary  to  leave  Ms  or  her  card, 
whether  the  persons  called  on  are  at  home  or 
not.  This  signifies  that  the  caller  wishes  the 
friend  to  be  included  in  any  invitations  received 
from  the  person  called  on.  If  the  host  or  host- 
ess takes  a  guest  along  as  a  matter  of  conveni- 
ence, and  the  guest  is  only  staying  a  short  time, 
no  card  of  such  a  guest  need  be  left,  and  it  will 
be  understood  that  this  guest,  if  a  lady,  need 
not  be  called  on  in  return,  nor,  if  a  gentleman, 
invited  to  any  forthcoming  entertainment. 
#  "When  a  son  has  entered  society,  his  mother 
leaves  his  card  along  with  his  father's  and 
mother's,  signifying  that  it  is  expected  that  he 
will  be  included  in  the  season's  invitations. 
This  is  strict  etiquette. 

A  man  or  woman  is  often  taken  to  a  house 
for  the  express  purpose  of  being  introduced. 
If  it  is  the  regular  "  At  Home  "  afternoon, 
the  caller  leaves  cards  as  on  any  first  call. 
If  a  chance  call  be  made,  and  the  hostess  is  out, 
the  stranger  leaves  his  or  her  cards  along  with 
those  of  the  accompanying  friend. 

CAEDS  LEFT  INSTEAD  OF  CALLING 

There  are  several  circumstances  which  allow 
of  cards  being  left  at  the  door  in  place  of  a  per- 
sonal call. 


CARDS I65 

People  invited  to  the  marriage  ceremony 
only,  when  a  church  wedding  is  to  occur,  or 
those  to  whom  cards  announcing  the  marriage 
are  sent,  should  leave  their  cards — whether 
men  or  women — on  the  bride's  mother  within 
a  week  or  two  after  the  ceremony. 

A  man  or  woman  friend  of  the  groom,  but  a 
stranger  to  the  bride's  mother,  being  invited 
to  the  wedding,  and  unable  to  attend,  does  not 
call,  but  leaves  cards  on  the  bride's  mother  a 
fortnight  after  the  wedding. 

If  the  members  of  a  club  or  social  institution 
are  entertained  at  the  home  of  a  lady,  those 
invited  should  leave  their  cards  on  the  hostess 
very  soon  after  the  occasion,  even  though  they 
have  no  calling  acquaintance  with  her  and  the 
reception  was  but  an  afternoon  affair. 

As  a  courteous  concession  to  her  age  or  in- 
firmities, an  elderly  lady,  semi-invalid,  or 
woman  in  deep  mourning,  is  privileged  to  leave 
her  cards  in  acknowledgment  of  invitations  re- 
ceived or  calls  made  on  her. 

If  a  lady  has  not  had  the  time  to  make  a  first 
call  or  a  call  after  entertainment,  but  is  anxious 
to  extend  an  invitation,  she  will  be  forgiven  if 
she  leaves  her  card  on  her  friend  instead  of 
calling,  or  even  posts  her  card  together  with  the 
invitation. 

Changes  of  address  and  re-entrance  into  so- 


J06  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


ciety  are  announced  by  leaving  cards ;  and  tliey 
are  also  left  with  enquiries  after  health  or  to 
show  a  kindly  feeling  in  the  event  of  misfor- 
tune. 

When  leaving  cards  without  making  a  call 
the  required  number  are  handed  to  the  servant 
who  answers  the  bell,  with  the  remark,  "  For 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ford,"  "  Mrs.  and  the  Misses 
Ford,"  or  for  whomsoever  they  are  intended. 

MOURNING   CARDS 

In  America  there  are  no  fixed  rules  in  regard 
to  the  black  border  of  a  mourning  visiting  card, 
but  any  ostentation  shows  the  worst  possible 
taste. 

A  widow  usually  has  a  border  slightly  wider 
than  one-third  of  an  inch  during  the  first  year 
of  widowhood ;  this  is  reduced  to  a  third  of  an 
inch  during  the  first  half  of  the  second  year. 
After  about  a  year  and  a  half  the  border  is 
diminished  by  a  sixteenth  of  an  inch  every  six 
months  until  the  period  of  mourning  is  over. 

A  widower's  card  being  a  man's,  and  smaller, 
has  not  such  a  wide  border,  which  is  gradually 
reduced  in  the  same  way  as  the  widow's. 

This  reduction  of  the  black  border  is  not  in 
good  taste  after  the  death  of  a  parent,  child, 
sister,  or  brother.  For  these  relatives  the  card 
should,  during  the  whole  period  of  mourning, 


CARDS    >07 

have  a  black  edge  between  one-eighth  and  a 
sixteenth  of  an  inch  in  width. 

Mourning  for  a  grandparent,  uncle,  or  aunt 
is  denoted  by  a  border  one-sixteenth  of  an  inch 
wide  during  the  whole  period.  When  a  lady- 
past  middle-age  is  left  a  widow  she  often  adopts 
permanent  mourning.  After  the  first  year  she 
substitutes  a  border  of  one-eighth  of  an  inch 
for  the  wide  one  and  keeps  this  card  for  the  rest 
of  her  days. 

CARDS   OF   CONDOLENCE  AND  ENQUIRY 

A  card  of  enquiry  after  the  health  of  a  sick 
friend  must  always  be  left  in  person,  after  ask- 
ing the  latest  news  of  the  patient.  It  is  neither 
courteous  nor  kind  to  post  these  cards.  Under 
the  engraved  name  of  the  caller  the  words  "  to 
enquire  "  are  written  in  pencil,  so  as  to  show 
the  card  to  be  especially  designed  for  the  sick 
person  and  as  proof  of  the  genuine  interest  of 
the  caller. 

A  card  need  only  be  left  at  long  intervals 
when  kindly  solicitude  prompts  a  daily  call  of 
'  enquiry. 

Cards  of  condolence  should  be  left  as  soon  as 
a  death  is  announced  and  must  be  handed  in 
person  by  the  friends  and  acquaintances  of  the 
bereaved  family.  A  bouquet  of  flowers  may 
accompany   the   card,    but   this    should   be    a 


(08 


THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


sign  of  personal  affection  and  not  a  mere  pa- 
rade. 

A  husband  and  wife  leave  two  of  each  ot 
their  own,  or  else  two  of  their  joint  cards,  one 
for  the  parents  and  one  for  the  other  members 
of  the  family.  In  case  of  the  death  of  husband 
or  wife,  the  same  number  of  cards  should  be 
left  if  there  are  grown-up  sons  and  daughters. 
If  the  parent  of  a  married  woman  dies,  cards 
are  left  at  her  door  and  at  that  of  the  surviving 
parent.  When  the  sole  remaining  parent  of  a 
family  dies,  cards  are  left  on  the  eldest  son  and 
daughter. 

There  is  a  custom,  not  always  observed,  of 
leaving  cards  both  shortly  after  the  death  and 
a  few  days  after  the  funeral,  but  if  this  be  done 
the  cards  are  left  with  less  ceremony,  and  a 
lady  may  leave  them  for  all  her  family  or  a 
sister  for  her  brother.  This  second  leaving  of 
cards  is  not  invariable,  and  it  seems  rather  to 
overdo  expressions  of  sympathy  and  likely  to 
prolong  the  anguish  of  the  bereaved  family. 

CARDS  IN  ANSWER  TO  ENQUIRY  OR  CONDOLENCE 

These  cards  may  take  two  forms.  A  person, 
on  recovery  from  a  serious  illness,  usually 
sends  through  the  post  his  or  her  own  cards  to 
all  who  have  called,  with  "  Alany  thanks  for 
your  kind  enquiries  "  written  in  pencil  on  the 


CARDS 109 

card.  To  callers  who  have  shown  especial 
anxiety  and  have  sent  flowers,  fruit,  books,  etc., 
in  addition  to  making  enquiries,  short,  cordial 
notes  of  thanks  are  sent.  A  distinguished  lady 
of  New  York,  on  recovering  from  a  recent  ill- 
ness, sent  out  a  card  engraved  in  elegant  script : 

"  Mrs.   presents    her   compliments    and 

thanks  for  recent  kind  enquiries."  This  seems 
a  very  sensible  plan,  worthy  of  wider  adoption. 
Parents  acknowledging  enquiries  for  a  young 
child  who  has  recovered  from  illness  use  their 
joint  card. 

In  acknowledgment  of  cards  of  condolence 
after  a  bereavement,  written  letters  of  thanks 
are  expected  by  intimate  friends.  In  addition, 
either  a  mourning  card  or  a  special  black-edged 
card  of  thanks  should  be  posted  to  all  persons 
who  have  sent  cards  of  condolence.  The  two 
forms  are  in  equal  favor.  If  the  ordinary 
mourning  card  is  posted,  "  With  thanks  for 
your  kind  sympathy  "  is  written  on  it,  and  it 
is  enclosed  in  a  black-bordered  envelope. 

When  the  large,  especially  printed  cards  are 
employed  as  a  means  of  returning  thanks,  a 
large  white  card  with  a  black  border  is  chosen 
and  the  inscription  printed  thereon,  not  en- 
graved. These  cards  are  also  posted  in  black- 
edged  envelopes  and  are  of  the  following 
styles : 


no  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

Mrs.  James  Wilson  and  Family 

return  thanks  for  your  Jiind  sympathy. 

60  North  Street. 

Mrs.  James  Wilson 
returns  thanks  to 

and  family 

for  their  kind  sympathy  and  condolence. 

60  North  Street. 

Or  the  widow  and  children  might  use  this  form : 

The  family  of  the  late 

James  Wilson 

return  their  sincere  thanks  for  your  kind 
sympathy. 

60  North  Street. 

CARDS    ANNOUNCING    BIBTH,    AND    REPLIES 

On  the  birth  of  a  child,  special  cards  are  sent 
to  friends  and  acquaintances  in  honor  of  the 
event.     To  a  large,   square  card  bearing  the 


CARDS  HI 

mother's  name  is  attached  a  small  one,  of  one- 
fourth  the  size,  with  the  full  name  of  the  child 
and  date  of  its  birth.  In  response  to  these 
cards,  calls  of  enquiry  after  the  health  of 
mother  and  child  are  made  and  cards  left  on 
the  mother  and  by  some  people  on  both,  al- 
though it  seems  far-fetched  to  leave  cards  on 
a  child  a  week  or  more  old. 

Persons  living  at  a  distance,  or  unable  to  call, 
should  post  their  own  cards  to  the  mother  with 
"  Hearty  congratulations  "  written  above  the 
name  of  the  sender. 

p.  p.  C.  CARDS 

"  Pour  prendre  conge  " — to  take  leave — is 
contracted  to  P.  P.  C,  and  the  letters  are  writ- 
ten on  one  of  the  lower  corners  of  the  cards  of 
persons  leaving  their  city  of  residence  or  neigh- 
borhood before  the  end  of  the  season,  or  going 
on  a  voyage.  These  cards  are  left  on  all  people 
with  whom  there  have  been  visiting  relations, 
and  are  generally  left  in  person,  or,  if  time 
does  not  allow,  it  is  quite  correct  to  post  them 
the  day  before  going  away.  These  cards  ac- 
quaint friends  of  a  departure  and  also  serve  as 
acknowledgment  of  hospitalities,  and  cancel  the 
indebtedness  of  calls  which  lack  of  time  has 
prevented  being  paid. 

At  the  season's  close  it  is  not  necessary  to 


112  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

send  P.  P.  C.  cards,  as  all  obligations  are  sup- 
posed to  have  been  already  met,  though  some 
people  do  use  them  to  let  their  friends  know 
that  they  have  finally  left  the  city  or  neighbor- 
hood. 

It  is  a  useful  idea,  -when  starting  on  a  voyage, 
to  write  on  the  cards  the  address  of  a  banker 
or  other  headquarters  in  the  foreign  country 
to  which  one  is  going. 

P.  P.  C.  cards  need  no  return. 

CAEDS   WHEN   TRAVELLING 

When  a  lady  \'isits  a  neighborhood  where  she 
has  several  friends  and  intends  to  stay  some 
time,  she  posts  to  her  friends— both  men  and 
women — cards  showing  her  temporary  address. 

A  man  should  call  on  his  friends  himself,  and 
if  they  are  out,  leave  his  card. 

It  is  better  to  use  one's  permanent  card  for 
this  purpose,  crossing  out  the  home  address  and 
writing  the  temporary  one  in  pencil  over  it. 

A  person  in  society  will  acquaint  friends  of 
a  change  of  residence  in  the  same  way. 


CALLS 

The  proper  making  of  calls  is  to  the  novice  a 
matter  of  much  form  and  conventionality.  To 
the  woman  of  modest  social  aspirations,  she 
whose  life  is  well  filled  with  other  duties,  the 
etiquette  of  calling  may  seem  a  bit  tiresome. 
But  if  she  wishes  to  keep  in  touch  with  friends 
and  acquaintances,  she  must  do  her  share  of  the 
visiting  and  should  do  it  in  the  conventional 
way.  She  must  get  rid  of  the  idea  that  she 
will  be  a  welcome  guest  at  any  hour  of  the 
day  and  upon  any  day  of  the  week.  As  a  mat- 
ter of  great  convenience  to  themselves  most 
women  of  any  social  pretensions  whatever  ap- 
point a  day  of  the  week  to  be  "  at  home  "  to 
their  friends.  This  information  is  printed  upon 
their  visiting  cards,  and  any  one  disregarding 
it,  when  intending  to  make  a  purely  social  call, 
is  guilty  of  a  rudeness.  Calls  upon  business  or 
for  some  matter  of  special  importance  may  be,  of 
course,  arranged  for  other  dates,  but  these  are 
not  "  calls  "  in  the  social  sense.  A  moment's 
thought  will  convince  one  of  the  need  of  thus 
protecting  one's  self  from  the  annoyance  of  re- 
ceiving ill-timed  calls.  A  friend  who  would  be 
JJ3 


114  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

very  welcome  wlieu  one  is  prepared  to  receive 
her  may  be  seriously  in  the  way  upon  another 
occasion.  In  small  places  the  reprehensible 
habit  of  running  in  and  out  of  one  another's 
houses  at  all  hours  of  the  day  still  prevails. 
No  one  really  likes  such  invasion  of  their 
privacy,  however  much  they  may  j^retend  to, 
or  however  "  friendly  "  they  may  be  with  the 
invader;  and  such  calls  would  not  be  tolerated 
in  the  polite  society  of  the  more  sophisticated 
towns.  It  is  much  better,  even  for  the  woman 
who  makes  and  receives  but  few  calls,  to  set 
aside  a  day  to  see  her  friends,  and  to  be  ready 
upon  that  day,  in  her  "  best  bib  and  tucker," 
to  do  the  honors  of  her  home.  In  many  neigh- 
borhoods of  the  larger  cities,  especially  in  dis- 
tricts bordering  upon  the  suburbs,  the  women 
seem  to  retain  the  old-fashioned  idea  that  a 
newcomer  must  be  received  with  open  arms  by 
the  entire  block.  To  a  woman  coming  from  a 
more  conservative  place,  it  is  at  first  surprising 
and  afterwards  annoying  to  find  that  she  is 
expected  to  exchange  calls  with  twenty  women 
or  so  with  whom  she  has  not  the  slightest  ac- 
quaintance nor  the  slightest  desire  to  become 
acquainted.  But  if  she  is  to  dwell  among  these 
kindly,  sociable  souls,  she  must  know  them  or 
incur  their  ill-feeling;  for  the  woman  who 
makes  a  call  upon  the  newcomer  feels  that  she 


CALLS  n5 

is  extending  to  her  the  hand  of  hospitality,  and 
to  have  that  hand  ignored  is  a  serious  offence 
to  her  pride.  Common  sense  seems  to  play  no 
part  in  this  determination  of  many  women  to 
make  the  acquaintance  of  strangers ;  and  it  cer- 
tainly never  occurs  to  them  that  the  stranger 
may  have  no  desire  to  know  them.  It  is  a  fool- 
ish practice  and  is,  of  course,  not  indulged  in  by 
women  of  nice  feeling  or  those  accustomed  to 
the  usages  of  good  society. 

Strictly  formal  calling  in  the  society  of  large 
cities  is  hedged  in  by  many  little  conventional 
details  as  to  the  days,  hours,  cards,  degree  of 
acquaintance,  etc.  The  "  At  Home  "  day  is 
generally  observed ;  the  usual  hours  for  making 
calls  are  from  three  or  three-thirty  to  five  in 
the  afternoon.  This  refers  more  especially  to 
calls  made  by  women.  Men,  owing  to  the  re- 
striction of  business  hours,  have  rather  more 
latitude,  and  do  not  as  a  rule  call  on  "At 
Home  "  days.  A  man  may  pay  his  duty  calls 
in  the  evening  or  on  Sunday.  The  custom  of 
receiving  one's  friends  upon  Sunday  afternoon 
and  evening  prevails  very  generally.  A  man 
should  not  call  later  in  the  evening  than  nine 
o'clock.  He  has  not  the  privilege  of  taking 
another  man  to  call  upon  his  women  friends 
without  first  receiving  their  permission  to  do  so. 
A  gentleman  who  wishes  to  become  acquainted 


Iti  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

with  ladies  can  do  so  properly  only  through  the 
introduction  of  a  mutual  friend.  He  makes  his 
first  call  in  the  company  of  this  friend. 

With  the  beginning  of  the  social  season, ' '  At 
Home  "  cards  are  sent  out  and  "  calling  "  be- 
comes a  part  of  the  business  of  the  day.  It  is 
well  to  call  promptly  upon  friends  who  have 
extended  their  hospitality  to  you  during  the 
summer. 

It  is  customary  for  the  participants  in  a 
wedding,  that  is,  the  bridesmaids,  the  best  man, 
ushers,  etc.,  to  call  shortly  after  the  ceremony 
upon  the  mother  of  the  bride.  Guests  at  a 
home  wedding  do  likewise,  and  also  call  upon 
the  bride  when  she  returns  from  her  honey- 
moon. Her  ' '  At  Home  ' '  cards  usually  inform 
friends  as  to  the  time  set  apart  for  receiving. 
Pallbearers  at  a  funeral  should  call  upon  the 
family  of  the  deceased  within  a  few  weeks  after 
the  sad  ceremony. 

In  regard  to  new  acquaintances,  it  is  an  act 
of  courtesy  for  a  hostess  to  call  upon  such  be- 
fore inviting  them  to  an  entertainment, — this 
does  not  refer  to  men  acquaintances. 

If  one  is  asked  by  an  intimate  friend  to  ex- 
tend the  courtesy  of  an  invitation  to  a  person 
with  whom  she  has  no  acquaintance,  the 
prospective  hostess  should  call  first  upon  this 
friend  of  her  friend  or  leave  her  card. 


CALLS "7 

In  regard  to  the  frequency  of  calling  upon 
one's  friends,  it  may  be  said  that  calls  of  the 
severely  conventional  kind  may  occur  but  once 
in  a  year.  This  is  where  an  acquaintance  has 
never  advanced  beyond  the  point  of  pure  for- 
mality. At  the  beginning  of  the  season  calling 
is  rather  more  prompt.  First  calls  should  be 
returned  within  two  weeks.  It  is  best  not  to 
allow  too  long  an  interval  to  elapse  when  one 
"  owes  "  a  call;  and  it  is  necessary  that  a  call 
made  in  person  should  be  so  returned— that  is, 
it  should  not  be  acknowledged  by  merely  send- 
ing one's  card. 

The  tactful  and  well-bred  society  woman  who 
finds  herself  afflicted  by  an  undesirable  woman 
caller  does  not  display  her  annoyance  by  word 
or  manner,  but  makes  haste  to  return  the  first 
call,  or  to  leave  her  card;  then  it  is  an  easy 
matter  to  drop  the  acquaintance  gradually  by 
sending  cards  now  and  then  until  the  affair 
dies  a  natural  death. 

The  man  who  makes  a  living  by  writing 
funny  paragraphs  for  the  newspapers  and 
comic  periodicals  finds  much  to  say  in  a  humor- 
ous way  on  the  subject  of  making  formal  calls. 
He  delights  to  picture  the  ill-concealed  joy  of 
the  caller  who  finds  that  her  "  friends  "  are 
"  out."  There  are  other  people  who  would 
have  the  world  believe  that  formal  calls  are  a 


JJ8  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

farce  and  a  waste  of  time  altogether.  There  is 
this  to  be  said  in  defence  of  the  custom :  If  one 
goes  in  for  society  at  all,  he  must  regard  its 
conventionalities;  and  it  may  safely  be  as- 
sumed that  the  man  or  woman  who  keeps  well 
in  touch  with  a  large  circle  of  friends  and  ac- 
quaintances possesses  advantages,  from  a 
worldly  point  of  view,  that  he  or  she  of  limited 
acquaintance  cannot  hope  to  have.  This  is  a 
statement  which  many  will  dispute;  but  there 
are  many  more  who  will  agree  that  a  wide  gen- 
eral acquaintance,  pleasantly  maintained,  is  a 
valuable  asset  in  the  business  of  living.  It  is 
not  true,  for  one  thing,  that  a  man's  friends 
and  acquaintances  desert  him  in  misfortune. 
The  percentage  of  people  who  are  capable  of 
this  meanness  is  not  so  large  as  is  generally 
believed;  and  while  one  does  not  care  to  con- 
sider his  friends  as  possible  helpers  in  diffi- 
culties, it  is  still  a  fine  thing  to  realize  that  one 
possesses  the  good  will  and  kindly  interest  of 
so  many  of  his  fellow  creatures.  But  this  is  a 
digression. 

To  return  to  the  etiquette  of  Calling:  If  a 
woman  is  on  her  way  to  call  upon  a  friend,  and 
should  chance  to  meet  the  latter  faring  forth 
upon  business  or  pleasure  of  her  own,  she 
should  not  take  advantage  of  the  opportunity 
to  leave  cards  at  her  door,  thus  hoping  to 


CALLS  IJ9 

escape  the  task  of  a  second  call;  she  should 
postpone  her  visit  until  another  day. 

If,  through  the  interest  of  a  friend,  a  woman 
is  invited  to  an  entertainment  at  a  house  where 
she  is  a  stranger,  she  should  pay  a  call  upon 
the  hostess  within  a  week  or  so  after  the  occa- 
sion. This  call  the  hostess  may  return  if 
she  wishes  to  continue  the  acquaintance,  but 
it  is  not  compulsory,  and  the  one  who  en- 
joyed her  hospitality  has  no  reason  to  feel 
offended. 

A  woman  never  calls  upon  a  man  socially. 
The  only  occasion  on  which  a  woman  calls  upon 
a  man  is  upon  a  matter  of  business ;  and  on  such 
occasions  she  should  make  it  a  point  to  find  out 
the  business  hours  of  the  place  and  go  at  such 
time.  She  is  usually  met  by  a  clerk,  or  in  case 
of  a  call  upon  the  minister  at  the  rectory,  or  a 
doctor  in  his  office,  by  the  maid,  to  whom  she 
gives  her  name,  requesting  that  it  be  taken  to  Mr. 
So-and-So.  In  a  man's  office,  a  woman  should 
not  look  for  just  the  same  courteous  treatment 
that  he  would  bestow  upon  her  in  a  drawing- 
room.  Some  men  are  always  courteous,  not 
only  in  their  hours  of  ease,  but  during  business 
hours ;  the  average  man,  however,  is  reprehen- 
sibly  lacking  in  his  company  manners  when  his 
mind  is  full  of  business,  and  while  he  is  not 
really  rude,  a  woman  who  is  sensitive  and  in- 


120  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


experienced  may  be  annoyed,  or  even  somewhat 
shocked,  to  find  herself  not  altogether  the  ob- 
ject .of  polite  attention  that  she  is  accustomed  to 
being  in  society.  But  a  man  who  is  not  wholly 
a  boor  will  remember  that  his  caller  is  a 
woman,  and  will  not  offend  by  too  far  forget- 
ting the  conventionalities.  He  will  not  receive 
her  in  his  shirt-sleeves,  if  by  chance  he  is  in- 
dulging in  this  luxury  of  undress  when  she  ar- 
rives ;  neither  will  he  keep  his  hat  on ;  he  will 
rise  when  she  enters  his  ofiBce,  and  stand  until 
•she  is  seated.  When  she  leaves  he  will  open 
the  door  for  her ;  and  if  an  intimate  acquaint- 
ance, will  escort  her  to  the  corridor  of  the  build- 
ing, or  to  the  elevator,  if  there  is  one.  A 
woman  who  calls  upon  a  man  during  his  busi- 
ness hours  should,  above  all  things,  endeavor 
to  be  brief  and  direct  in  her  communication. 
Nothing  is  more  annoying  to  a  man  than  to 
have  a  business  caller  constantly  digress  from 
the  matter  in  hand. 

The  occasions  when  it  becomes  necessary  for 
a  woman  to  call  upon  a  man  at  his  house,  where 
she  has  no  acquaintance,  are  not  frequent,  but 
should  such  an  emergency  arise,  the  woman 
must  go  in  the  company  of  a  relative  or 
chapei-on.  A  call  of  this  kind  should  be  made  as 
brief  as  possible.  A  woman  should  not,  imder 
any,   circumstances,    call    unchaperoned    at    a 


CALLS  \ii 

bachelor  apartment.  She  may  have  enjoyed 
the  hospitality  of  a  bachelor  friend  in  some 
pleasant  way,  but  the  acceptance  of  his  invita- 
tions entails  no  after  acknowledgment  upon 
her  part  in  the  way  of  calling.  In  the  large 
cities,  artists,  musicians,  and  literary  men  fre- 
quently entertain  their  friends  in  their  apart- 
ments, or  studios.  These  affairs  are  usually 
very  delightful,  but  women  do  not  attend  them 
alone.  As  has  been  said  before,  most  women 
in  society  have  long  since  recognized  the  con- 
venience and  general  desirability  of  having  an 
"  At  Home  "  day.  This,  in  the  larger  towns 
or  cities,  is  usually  one  day  in  each  week 
throughout  the  social  season,  which  begins 
about  the  first  of  November.  Some  "  At 
Homes  ' '  terminate  with  the  beginning  of  Lent, 
others  continue  later  in  the  spring.  If  one  has 
no  desire  to  entertain  so  frequently,  she  may 
be  at  home  once  in  two  weeks,  or  may  have  a 
brief  series  of  Days  for  which  she  sends  out 
special  cards.  For  the  ordinary  once  a  week  ' '  At 
Home  "  the  day  is  designated  on  the  visiting 
card.  Upon  the  day  appointed  a  woman  should 
not  forget  that  she  should  be  on  hand  to  receive 
her  guests.  This  may  seem,  to  the  uninitiated, 
rather  superfluous  advice,  but  it  is  not,  really. 
It  would  surprise  them  to  know  how  frequently 
women  offend  in  this  matter — not  women  of  good 


J22 


THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


breeding  and  experience,  but  those  whose  foot- 
hold on  the  social  ladder  is  more  or  less  in- 
secure, and  who  think  it  rather  a  good  joke, 
upon  the  whole,  to  play  truant  on  their  "  At 
Home  "  day,  if  there  is  something  more  inter- 
esting in  view  in  the  way  of  pleasure, 

A  woman  who  appoints  a  day  for  receiving 
callers  is  quite  justified  in  declining  to  see  any 
one  who  calls  socially  upon  another  day  than 
that  set  aside.  The  latter-day  '  *  Not  at  home, ' ' 
which  many  people  look  upon  as  a  falsehood 
pure  and  simple,  is  nothing  more  than  one  of 
the  little  conventionalities  of  society,  and  is 
very  generally  understood  to  mean  that  the  per- 
son called  upon  is  not  receiving.  It  is  not  in- 
tended to  convey  the  impression  that  she  is  lit- 
erally absent  from  her  house. 

On  "  At  Home  "  days  the  servant  stands  in 
the  hall,  ready  to  open  the  door  promptly  to 
callers.  Wliere  a  butler  is  emploj-ed  his  duties 
are  rather  more  strenuous  than  those  of  a  maid, 
since  he  must  announce  the  names  of  vis- 
itors at  the  drawing-room  door,  attend  a  lady 
to  her  carriage  with  an  umbrella  in  case  it 
rains,  and  assist  a  gentleman  with  his  outer 
coat,  etc.  The  servant  may  receive  the  cards 
of  callers  upon  a  small  tray,  or  a  larger  tray 
may  stand  conveniently  at  hand,  so  that  each 
caller   may   deposit   his    or   her   card.      The 


CALLS  123 

hostess  on  an  "  At  Home  "  day,  unless  it  is  a 
very  large  reception,  need  not  stand  at  the 
drawing-room  door  to  receive  her  guests,  but 
should  simply  rise  and  greet  each  newcomer, 
and  give  her  as  much  personal  attention  as  she 
can  without  neglecting  others.  Refreshments 
are  served  as  directed  in  the  chapter  on  "After- 
noon Teas."  When  a  guest  leaves,  the  hostess 
does  not  accompany  her  to  the  door.  She  rises 
as  they  exchange  the  courtesies  of  adieu  and 
stands  until  the  guest  turns  toward  the  door. 
If  no  other  guests  are  pi-esent,  however,  and 
the  hostess  so  desires,  she  may  accompany  a 
woman  caller  to  the  street  door.  Formal  calls 
should  not  last  less  than  fifteen  minutes  nor 
more  than  half  an  hour.  A  caller  should  not 
leave  without  a  word  of  farewell  to  her  hostess, 
even  though  she  may  find  it  awkward  to  gain 
her  attention.  A  tactful  hostess  has  an  eye  to 
arrivals,  that  she  may  be  ready  with  her  greet- 
ing, and  she  will  be  quick  also  to  discern  the 
desire  of  a  caller  to  wish  her  good-afternoon. 
If  she  is  engaged  in  conversation  with  others 
she  will  not  keep  the  departing  guest  waiting 
uncomfortably,  but  will  gracefully  manage  to 
give  her  an  opportunity  to  approach  her.  The 
words  of  farewell  should  be  brief ;  there  should 
be  no  attempt  at  conversation  after  the  hostess 
has  risen  for  the  little  ceremony  of  adieux. 


J24  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

This  awkward  habit  of  so  many  people  is  tire- 
some in  the  extreme  to  the  hostess,  and  is  usu- 
ally a  source  of  discomfort  to  the  caller  herself, 
who  is  conscious  that  she  is  unable  to  leave  a 
room  gracefully.  There  is  an  old  saying  to  the 
effect  that  the  best  of  a  visit  takes  place  at  the 
door;  but  this  is  far  from  the  truth  where  the 
modern  formal  call  is  concerned.  There  is  no 
opportunity  in  polite  society  to-day  for  the 
female  bore,  or  boor,  to  keep  her  tired  but  pa- 
tient hostess  standing  in  a  draughty  hall  for 
half  an  hour  after  the  first  word  of  farewell 
h^as  been  spoken.  When  a  call  has  extended  to 
its  proper  duration,  the  watchword  of  the  twen- 
tieth-century caller  is,  or  should  be,  "  Go." 

A  gentleman,  when  making  a  call,  should  rise 
from  his  chair  when  a  woman  caller  enters  and 
remain  standing  until  she  is  seated.  He  also 
stands  when  she  rises  to  leave,  and  whenever 
his  hostess  leaves  her  seat.  A  gentleman  should 
never,  in  making  calls,  wear  his  overcoat  into 
the  drawing-room;  in  regard  to  the  propriety 
of  carrying  his  hat  and  cane  into  the  room  there 
is  still  much  argument;  as  a  rule,  he  leaves 
these  articles  in  the  hall  with  his  coat.  A  lady 
wears  her  hat  or  bonnet  and  wrap  while  making 
a  call,  but  if  she  has  worn  a  stormcoat  or  similar 
over-garment,  it  should  be  left  in  the  hall. 


BALLS 

Possibly  no  other  form  of  hospitality  gives 
such  unquestioned  happiness  and  enjoyment 
to  the  old  and  young  alike  as  a  successful 
dance. 

Whether  we  dignify  it  by  the  formal,  high- 
sounding  title  of  "  Ball,"  or  speak  of  it  more 
intimately  as  just  "  a  plain,  ordinary  dance," 
there  is  a  joyousness  in  the  thought,  and  a 
music  in  the  very  words  themselves,  that  in- 
stantly recall  the  voluptuous  waltz  or  the 
cheery  two-step,  and,  mayhap,  the  memory  of 
some  never-to-be-forgotten  occasion. 

Dinners,  receptions— nay,  even  the  wedding 
of  our  best  friend— may  be  enjoyed  and  in  the 
course  of  time  forgotten,  but  the  memory  of 
that  first  dance,  our  first  ball,  can  never  grow 
dim.  Whether  it  be  as  debutante  or  hostess, 
the  event  is  a  memorable  one.  Yet  that  which 
otherwise  would  have  been  counted  among  the 
most  pleasant  memories  of  our  lives,  is  some- 
times marred  by  the  conduct  of  some  person 
who,  under  no  circumstances,  should  have  had 
the  entree  to  the  room. 
125 


J26  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

This  brings  us  to  the  all-important  question 
of  invitations,  or 

WHOM    TO    INVITE 

To  the  successful  entertainer  this  is  always 
the  most  troublesome  phase  of  the  whole  under- 
taking, for  it  is  given  to  but  few  of  us  to  go 
through  life  free  from  obligations  save  to  those 
in  our  own  social  set.  It  almost  invariably 
happens,  therefore,  that  the  more  or  less 
publicity  attending  a  private  ball  compels  us  to 
invite  people  from  business  or  other  reasons, 
who  do  not  enjoy  any  social  intimacy  with  us, 
and  for  whose  acceptability  to  other  guests  it 
would  be  difficult  for  us  to  vouch.  Yet  one 
such  person  may  ruin  the  work  of  the  most 
charming  hostess.  The  guest  has  the  right  to 
demand  that  he  or  she  will  not  be  faced  with 
an  unpleasant  situation,  and  the  diplomatic 
hostess  will  exercise  the  most  skilful  care  in  the 
supervision  of  her  invitation  list,  to  the  end 
that  no  untoward  incident  shall  mar  any  of  her 
guests'  enjoyment.  The  first  great  recognized 
leader  of  New.  York's  fashionable  society  fre- 
quently declared  that  he  had  narrowed  the  num- 
ber of  the  elect  to  four  hundred  by  eliminating 
all  those  who  were  "  plainly  ill  at  ease  in  a 
ballroom."  Proper  as  this  arbitrary  ruling 
may  or  may  not  have  been  to  the  fashionables 


BALLS  127 

of  New  York,  it  is  a  manifestly  absurd  proposi- 
tion so  far  as  regards  the  great  majority  of  the 
people  of  these  United  States.  And  yet  the 
point  of  view,  shorn  of  the  extreme  to  which 
Mr.  Ward  McAllister  took  it,  is  eminently  true. 
Having,  therefore,  carefully  chosen  the  people 
we  are  desirous  of  entertaining,  the  matter  of 
invitations  becomes  paramount. 

THE  INVITATION 

to  a  formal  ball  should  be  issued,  at  the  very 
least,  ten  days  before  the  event  is  to  take  place ; 
preferably  from  ten  to  twenty-four  days.  Too 
frequently  the  present  prevailing  laxity  in  the 
observance  of  social  conventions  leads  to  care- 
lessness in  the  minor  details  of  the  relationship 
between  hostess  and  guest,  and  vice  versa,  but 
experience  will  prove  that  those  who  are  scru- 
pulously exact  in  these  matters  are  more  than 
repaid  by  the  smoothness  of  their  social  life  and 
the  value  which  others  place  on  their  acquaint- 
anceship. 

The  question  of  adding  the  letters  E.  S.  V.  P. 
to  an  invitation  to  a  private  ball  is  a  vexed  one. 
In  the  majority  of  instances  they  are  omitted, 
and  yet  it  is  perfectly  permissible  to  use  them, 
and,  in  some  instances,  absolutely  necessary. 


m  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

FORMS    OF    INVITATION 

vary  very  little,  but  any  reputable  stationer 
will  be  found  to  carry  samples  of  those  in 
vogue.  The  following  forms,  however,  will  be 
found  to  cover  any  average  occasion : 

(a) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Theodore  Kay 

request  the  pleasure  of  your  company 

on  Tuesday  evening,  December  the  first, 

at  half -past  nine  o'clock. 

Dancing.  58  Fair  street. 

R.  S.  V.  p. 

ih) 

Mrs.  August  Schofield, 

Miss  Schofield, 

At  Home 

Thursday,  February  the  sixth, 

at  ten  o'clock. 

Dancing.  240  Park  Avenue. 

Cotillon  after  twelve  o'clock. 


BALLS  129 

It  must  not  be  forgotten,  however,  that  if 
for  any  reason  at  all  engraved  invitations  are 
not  obtainable,  or  perhaps  not  desired,  written 
invitations,  beside  serving  exactly  the  same 
purpose,  are  equally  correct.  If  written,  the 
very  best  white  or  gray  note  paper  should  be 
used,  and  the  text  worded  exactly  like  those 
that  are  engraved.  Also  it  should  be  sealed 
under  cover  of  one  envelope  and  forwarded 
whenever  possible  by  messenger,  using  the 
postal  service  for  those  only  who  are  not  con- 
veniently within  reach.  Engraved  invitations 
receive  a  somewhat  different  treatment.  If 
sent  by  messenger,  but  a  single  envelope  is  em- 
ployed, while,  if  mailed,  two  are  employed,  the 
first  or  inner  cover,  unsealed,  bearing  the  name 
only  of  the  person  for  whom  it  is  meant,  while 
on  the  outer  envelope  is  inscribed  the  full  name 
and  address. 

It  will  be  noticed  that  in  the  example  forms 
already  given,  the  single  word  "  Dancing  " 
suffices  to  inform  the  recipient  of  the  nature  of 
the  evening's  entertainment.  More  would  be 
superfluous  and  distinctly  bad  form. 

When  it  is  desired  to  have  the  guests  present 
some  little  time  before  the  hour  set  for  danc- 
ing, as  in  the  instance  of  a  special  musical  pro- 
gramme, the  difference  in  the  hour  set  for  the 
invitation,  and  the   separate  mention  of  the 


J30  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

hour  when  danciug  is  to  begin,  should  be  suffi- 
cient notice  to  the  recipient. 

THE    COTILLON 

Occasionally  the  cotillon  is  designed  to  oc- 
cupy the  entire  evening,  in  which  case  the  in- 
vitation might  read: 

(c) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Percival  Lee 

request  the  pleasure  of 


company  on  Tuesday  evening,  March  first, 
at  ten  o'clock. 

Cotillon  Forty-four  Brook  Avenue. 

THE  DINNER  DANCE 

has  become  increasingly  popular,  and  very  nat- 
urally so,  seeing  that  the  intimacy  of  the  din- 
ing-room forms  the  happiest  prelude  to  the 
gayety  of  the  dance,  and  the  stiffness  that  too 
often  accompanies  the  more  formal  ball  is  en- 
tirely absent.  Then,  again,  the  guests  are 
fewer  in  number  and  invariably  congenial.  For 
an  affair  of  this  character  two  different  sets 
of  invitations  are  required,  the  first  being  the 


BALLS  m 

ordinary  engraved  dinner  cards  of  the  hostess 
with  the  word  "  Dancing  "  and  the  liour  writ- 
ten in  the  lower  left-hand  corner,  and  the  sec- 
ond, designed  for  those  who  are  invited  for  the 
dancing  only,  consisting  of  the  regoilar  "  At 
Home  "  cards,  with  "  Dancing  "  and  the  hour 
written  in  the  lower  left-hand  corner.  Better 
still,  particularly  if  the  affair  is  small  and  in- 
formal, the  hostess  could  substitute  for  the 
card  above  described  the  regular  visiting  card 
of  herself  and  husband  or  daughter  with : 

id) 

Dancing  at  ■ 

January  the  ninth, 

R.  S.  V.  P. 

written  in  the  lower  left-hand  corner.  This 
method  has  the  advantage  of  conveying  a 
degree  of  cordiality  to  the  recipient  that  is 
impossible  with  the  stiff  and  stilted  invitation 
couched  in  the  third  person,  or  even  the  regula- 
tion "  At  Home  "  card,  hence  its  growing  em- 
ployment. 

THE  DEBUTANTE 

is  frequently  introduced  into  society  through  a 
dance  or  ball,  invitations  for  which  are  similar 


132  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

to  those  already  described  in  examples  (a)  and 
(b).  If  the  latter  of  these  two  is  used,  the 
calling  card  of  the  debutante  should  be  enclosed 
with  each  invitation.  A  more  direct  announce- 
ment is  that  conveyed  in  the  following  form : 

(e) 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  Mount 

request  the  pleasure 
of  introducing  their  daughter 


to 


on  Thursday  evening,  March  the  third, 
at  half  after  nine  o'clock. 

200  Washington  Avenue. 
ASSEMBLY  DANCES,  SUBSCRIPTION  BALLS,  ETC. 

Invitations  to  these  popular  forms  of  enter- 
tainment frequently  partake  of  a  degree  of 
originality  denied  to  the  strictly  ]irivate  dance. 
The  conventional  form,  however,  is  here  given : 


BALLS t33 

(/) 
The  pleasure  of 

company  is  requested  at  the 

First  Assembly 

in  Library  Hall 

on  Tuesday  evening,  November  fourth, 

from  nine  until  one  o'clock. 

R.  S.  V.  P. 

Patronesses: 
Mrs.  De  Lancey  Barrett,     Mrs.  Thos.  Wilson, 
Mrs.  Tremont,  Mrs.  Barry. 

Usually  the  number  of  invitations  allowed  to 
each  subscriber  is  clearly  understood  and 
loyally  adhered  to ;  but  every  little  while  care- 
lessness creeps  in  and  the  agreement  is  trans- 
gressed. Various  plans  have  been  tried  to  pre- 
vent this  injustice,  but  the  voucher  system  has 
been  found  to  work  the  best.  The  "  voucher  " 
is  a  small  card  inscribed  as  follows : 


J34  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

(9) 
First  Assembly 

Gentleman's  Voucher. 

Admit 

on  Tuesday  evening,  November  the  fourth. 

Compliments  of 

The  same  form  does  for  either  sex,  substi- 
tuting "  Lady's  "  for  "  Gentleman's  "  before 
the  word  "  voucher."  In  sending  out  this  in- 
vitation the  subscriber  should  invariably  en- 
close his  own  visiting  card.  Another  form,  the 
occasion  for  which  is  sufficiently  indicated  by 
its  wording,  is: 

(h) 

The  pleasure  of 

company  is  requested  at 

The  Volunteer  Firemen's  Ball, 

at  the  Country  Club, 

on  Wednesday  evening,  April  the  second, 

at  ten-thirty  o'clock. 
R.  s.  r.  p.  to 

Tht  Committee, 

Relianct  Hook  and  Ladder, 

Main  Street. 


BALLS  135 

BAL  POUDRE,  FANCY  DRESS,  COSTUME  BALLS,  ETC. 

Invitations  to  these  fascinating  entertain- 
ments are  couched  similarly  to  those  used  for 
the  ordinary  ball,  except  that  the  distinguish- 
ing feature  of  the  affair  is  clearly  stated,  as : 

(i) 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Walter  Cromwell 

request  the  pleasure  of 

company  on  Tuesday  evening,  November  first, 
at  ten  o'clock. 
Bal  Poudre. 

or 

Costumt:  Rewbitionary  era 

(as  the  case  may  be). 

300  Fortythe  Street. 

CHABITY  AND  OTHER  BALLS 

0) 

The  pleasure  of  your  company  is  requested 

at  the 

Annual  Charity  Ball 

To  be  given  in  the  Opera  House  on 

Wednesday  evening, 

February  the  third,  at  nine  o'clock. 

Cards  of  admission,  five  dollars, 


J36  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

Very  large  sheets  of  thick  paper,  or  substan- 
tial cards,  are  used  for  the  engraved  invitations. 
Frequently  the  names  of  the  ladies  and  gentle- 
men serving  on  the  Eeception  and  Floor  Com- 
mittees, respectively,  are  printed  underneath 
the  invitation. 

EXTRA   GUESTS 

Sometimes  it  happens  that  invited  guests  are 
also  entertaining  guests  of  their  own,  and 
as  this  may  easily  become  a  source  of  much 
worry  to  the  hostess  in  the  case  of  a  private 
ball,  it  will  be  well  to  discuss  the  problem  be- 
fore proceeding  to  another  subject. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  invite  Miss  Smith,  per- 
sonally known  or  unknown  to  the  hostess, 
simply  because  she  is  a  guest  of  Miss  Norman, 
to  whom  an  invitation  is  sent  as  a  matter  of 
course.  But  Miss  Norman  may  ask  personally, 
or  write,  for  an  invitation  for  her  friend,  in 
which  case  the  hostess  may  decline  or  grant  the 
request.  Failure  to  obtain  the  necessary  in- 
vitation for  one's  guests  should  be  accepted 
philosophically,  as  such  incidents,  besides  being 
of  every-day  occurrence,  are  positively  un- 
avoidable. In  case  of  a  declination  the  follow- 
ing form  may  be  used,  not  the  least  of  its  ad- 
vantages being  that  it  is  invariably  true,  a 
quality  which  does  not  always  distinguish  our 
social  amenities  and  conventions. 


BALLS J37 

{k) 

Edgeivater,  May  28th,  19—. 
My  Dear  Miss  Norman  : 

So  general  has  been  the  acceptance  of  our 
invitations  that  I  begin  to  doubt  the  capacity 
of  my  rooms.  It  would  be  a  great  pleasure  to 
include  Miss  Smith,  but  my  limitations  in  the 
matter  positively  prevent  me.  You  ivill,  I  am 
sure,  realize  my  difficulty  and  forgive  my  in- 
ability to  respond  more  hospitably  to  your 
request. 

Very  sincerely  yours, 

Maby  Waller. 

My  Dear  Miss  Norman  : 

Surely.  By  all  means  bring  your  friend 
Miss  Smith.  My  cards  are  exhausted,  but 
Edith  ivill  call  at  once  and  give  the  invitation 
personally. 

Most  cordially  yours, 

Mary  Waller. 

So  much  for  the  sending  of  invitations. 
Whether  the  invitation  bear  the  letters  B.  S. 
V.  P.  or  not  the  recipient  is  expected,  by  all  the 
laws  of  good  breeding,  to  respond  promptly. 
When  the  invitation  is  formally  written  in  the 


J38  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

third  person,  the  reply  shouUl  be  sent  within 
forty-eight  hours.  The  two  forms  following- 
cover  this  case: 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Vernon  Black 

accept  with  pleasure 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Thomas  Smithson's 

kind  invitation  for  Tuesday  evening, 

February  the  third. 

Or 

Mr.  W.  Francis  White 

regrets  that  absence  from  town 

rvill  prevent  his  acceptance  of 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Harmon's 

kind  invitation  for  Monday  evening, 

April  the  fourth. 

In  the  ease  of  assembly  or  subscription 
dances,  the  reply  should  be  directly  to  the  mem- 
ber or  subscriber  to  whom  the  favor  is  owed, 
as: 


BALLS  139 

48  Vicars  Lane, 
November  16,  19 — . 
My  De.\e  Mrs.  O'Connell: 

It  is  with  genuine  pleasure  I  am  able  to  ac- 
cept your  invitation  to  the  First  Subscription 
Ball,  on  the   evening  of  December   the  first. 
Trusting  that  I  may  see  you  there, 
Believe  me, 
Most  sincerely  yours, 

Hebbebt  Collins. 
Or 

My  Deab  Mrs.  O'Connell: 

With  great  regret  I  am  compelled  to  return 
the  cards  for  the  First  Subscription  Dance. 
Business  necessity  of  the  m,ost  imperative  de- 
scription alone  prevents  me.  My  disappoint- 
ment is  all  the  more  keen  because  of  the  in- 
variably brilliant  and  successful  character  of 
the  dances,  ivhich  I  enjoy  very  much. 

Believe  me,  with  many  thanks. 
Sincerely  yours, 

Herbert  Collins. 

the  essentials 

The  thousand  and  one  details  that  go  to 
make  up  the  success  of  an  entertainment  of 
any  sort  require  much  careful  forethought  on 
the  part  of  those  giving  the  affair.     For  in- 


l^  THE  MOPERN,  HOSTESS 

stance,  the  entire  night  might  be  spoiled  for  a 
guest. by. the  omission  of  some  trivial  matter 
of  convenience.  In  the.  matter  of  a  ball,  or 
danc^  it, is  most  important  that  guests  shpuld 
be  protected  from,  the  .weathei:,  pr  the  idle  curi- 
Qsity  of  9-  street  crowd,  by  some  sort, of  covgred 
way  from  the  stre,et  curb  to  the  hpuse  entrance. 
The  pathway  also  should  be  coyered  by  a  strip 
of  matting  or  carpet.  A  seyvaiit  or  other  male 
emplpye,iA  livery  lif  possible,  should  be  present 
to  open  the  carriage  doors,  give  duplicate  car- 
riage checks  to  guests  and  coachmen,  and  other- 
wise make  himself  usefiii. .  Arrived  at  th?  en- 
trance dpo.r,  the  guest  is  directed  by  the  butler, 
or  his  subgtitute,  to  the.  cloak-  or  dressing- 
rooms,  .where,  ip  the  case  of  ladies,  maids  are 
in  attendEipce  tP  assist  iji  removing  their  wraps, 
numbering  each  parcel,  and  giving  a  duplicate 
number-check  to  the  guest.  In  the  gentlemen's 
dressing-room,  a  man  should  be  present  to  per- 
form similar  services  for  the  male  guests. ,,  It 
is  the  part  of  wisdom  to  have  in  the  ladies' 
dressing-  or.  cloak-room  some  one  qualified  and 
equipped  for  the  repair  of  torn  dresses.  A 
much  appreciated  courtesy. is  the  placing  of 
cigars,  cigarettes,  brandy,  soda,  or  other  ef- 
f ervescents  in  the  gentlemen 's  dressing-room. 
This,  of  course,,  is  only  done  when  a  regular 
smoking-ropm  is  impossible.  ,,   ,     ,.,.^      ,, 


"bAllS m 

The  Floor.— -'Nothing  IS  more  necessal'y  f6r 
the  dancers'  enjoyment  than  a  good  floor,'  and 
yet  such  is  the  exception  rather'  tlian  the  Mle. 
A  good  parquet  surface,  siiiooth,  but  notto'd 
slippery,  makes  a  tjeautifui  as  well  as  aesthet- 
ically pleasing  Tjallroom  floor,  but  any  tard 
wood,'  if  it  is  evenly  and  closely  laid  and 
smoothly  polished,  'will  serve  equally  well. 
Fortunately  the  present  trend  is 'to  poIis"hed 
floors  and  large  rugs,  art-squares,  etc;,  ko  that 
the  average  room  is  easily  converted  info  a 
dancing  hall.  If  the  room  is  ciarpeted  and  it  is 
not  desirable  to  remove  the  carpet,  the  floor  is 
sometimes  covered  with  a  thickness  of  heavy 
upholsterer's  paper,  over  which  is  stretched  a 
covering  of  heavy '  uiibleached  cotton  cloth, 
drawn  very  smooth;  At  thebest  this  is  a  sonie- 
what  unwholesome  practice,  as  the  fine  particles 
of  linen  and  dust  get  into  th.e  lungs.  If  at  all 
possible,'  or  if  the  floor'  is  even'raode'rately 
decent,  it  will  be  far  miore  conducive  to  the 
night's  enjoyment  to  take'  iip  the  ca;rpets. 
Paraffine  wax,  or  a  sprin'kling  of  c6rnni6al',  Will 
improve  even  the  l)est  of  floors.  

Music. — ^This  important  fealture  is  frequently 
the  most  difficult  probleni  to  'solve— so  many 
considerations  enter  into  the  question.  'Ex- 
pense, more  often  than  not,  is  the  least  of  the 
items  to  be  considered,  but  it  is  well  to  point 


J42  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


out  that  the  best  instrumental  musicians  are 
usually  members  of  the  musical  unions  and  de- 
mand a  fused  rate  of  pay.  This  rate  is  by  no 
means  excessi\-e,  and  at  the  same  time  the  host- 
ess may  leave  the  details  of  the  music  entirely 
to  them  after  she  has  made  known  the  number 
and  description  of  dances  that  will  be  required, 
confident  in  the  knowledge  that  the  musicians 
will  be  capable.  Too  often  the  disputes  and 
petty  jealousies  of  local  musicians,  and  the  fact 
that  they  rarely  practise  ensemble  playing, 
make  it  absolutely  impossible  for  any  one  to 
use  their  services.  It  is  cheaper  in  the  end  to 
send  to  the  nearest  centre  and  engage  profes- 
sional men.  The  scale  of  remuneration  in  New 
York  and  Chicago  is  approximately  $8.00  per 
man  for  a  large  publie  ball;  $7.00  for  a  similar 
private  affair;  $6.00  where  the  rate  of  ad- 
mission is  $1.00  or  over;  under  this  amount, 
$5.00;  private  all-night  dances,  $5.00;  and  for 
afternoon  dances,  from  2  to  6  p.  m.,  $3.00.  The 
leader  is  paid  from  $3.00  to  $5.00  extra  for  his 
work  in  leading,  supplying  the  music,  and 
supervising  the  musical  work  generally.  These 
figures  do  not  include  travelling  or  other  ex- 
penses incidental  to  an  "  out-of-town  "  engage- 
ment. 

With  regard  to  the  number  and  composition 
of  the  orchestra,  the  size  of  the  room  and  the 


BALLS  t43 

importance  of  the  occasion  will  be  the  deter- 
mining elements.  For  a  small  house  dance,  the 
piano  is  usually  sufficient;  but  care  should  be 
taken  to  have  it  in  tune,  and  place  it  in  such  a 
position  that  the  treble,  or  upper  part  of  the 
piano,  is  nearest  the  dancers.  A  violin  could 
be  added,  and  possibly  a  flute  or  clarionet.  The 
following  instruments  might  be  secured  in  the 
order  they  are  named,  according  as  there  is 
need:  second  violin,  'cello,  cornet,  bass,  viola, 
trombone,  horns,  tympans,  drum,  cymbals, 
etc.  The  great  artistic  consideration  is  that 
the  music  shall  not  be  noisy,  and,  if  pos- 
sible, the  players  are  placed  in  a  gallery  or  on 
a  raised  platform.  A  free  use  of  palms  and 
other  foliage  will  kill  any  stilted  platform 
effect.  A  good  point  to  remember  is  that  mu- 
sicians are  merely  human  beings,  with  the  same 
characteristics  as  the  people  on  the  floor.  It 
should  be  seen,  therefore,  that  the  orchestra 
is  so  placed  as  not  to  compel  the  players  to 
cross  the  floor  or  interfere  with  the  guests  in 
coming  and  going  from  the  platform.  A  little 
friendly  interest  in  their  comfort  will  mean 
vastly  more  accommodating  players,  something 
the  younger  element  among  the  dancers  will  be 
quick  to  appreciate.  A  word  of  warning  in 
regard  to  the  piano  will  be  particularly  val- 
uable to  those  who  have  not  had  the  experience 


t44  THE  MODjERN  HOSTESS 

to  whichjt  relates.  .  The  average  piano  is  too 
low  in  pitch  to  be  used  in  connection  with  such 
instruments  as  the  horns^  cornet,  clarionet,  and 
flute,.  It, is  always. a,dyisable  tp  call  in  the  tuner 
aii^  Aotify  him.  that  the  .piano  is,  wanted  for 
service. with  orchestral  instruments,  so  that  if 
he.  cannot  alter  the  pitch  sufficiently,  thei-e  will 
be  .time  to.  make  other  arrangements.  Time 
and,  .time,  .again,  good  instrumentalists  have 
cppie  from,  a,  distance,  only  to  find  that  they 
cmmX  play. with  the  piano  that  had  been  pro- 
vided  for    them.. : ; 

Dan(]e  Prggrammes.— These  may  be  piace^ 
in  the  dressing-rooms,  ^or  else  tendered  by  a 
servant, from  a  neat  tray,  and  stationed  just 

Qutside.the. ballroom  door..    ,;;  ;;    ,     

_^§ eats,— There  should  be  a  p|enfiful  supply 
of  sofas.or  chairs  lining  the  walls  of  the  ball- 
room, as  well  as  in  the  halls  and  other  rooms. 
A  number  o^  l.ight  folding  chairs,  which  the 
guests  can  use  as  they  please,  .will  be  found 
very,accepta,ble  as  well  as  useful.      ,^     , 


BALiiioOM  ETIQtfETTE 

4^HvflL— Custom  .apparently  decrees  that 
"nobody  must  .put  in  an  appearance  until 
every  one.  is  there,; V, but,  custom, to  the  con- 
trary,.  notwithstanding,  there  ^  still  remains  a 


"BALLS   T45 

happy  medium  between  arriving  inconveiiientiy 
early  and  iinpleasantly  late.  '    '     ■ 

'  Entering  the  Ballroom:^— AUei  leaving  the 
dres^itig-fODms,  the  h6xt  rendezvous  is  at'th6 
head  dr  foot  of  the  stairs,  as  the  case  inay  be; 
where  ladies  meet  their  escorts  and  proceed  to- 
gether to  the  ■  ban'room.  ■  Und'er'  no'  dircutii- 
steinces  mtist  they  eiiter  arm-in-arm V'the ' ^6n^- 
tleman  always '  permitting  the' lady  to  precede 
him  by  a  step  or  so.  In'  the'  case  of 'several 
ladies  entering  at  the  ^ame  time,  the  eldest  has 
precedence  •  married"  ladies'  'precede  the  u'limar- 
ried.  duestS'  shake 'liaiids  ivith  bl- bow' to  the 
hostess  immediately  upon  arrival,  and  as 'soon 
as  possible  after  eiiterihg  the  balli-dom  tHe  geh- 
tleraen  of  the  party  should  seek  but  aM  Shake 
hands  with  the  host.  The  old-fashioned  custbttt 
of  having  the  naiii'e  of  each  arrival  Called' '6Ut 
at  the  (Joor  Mj  a  man  in  livery  is  Still  in' favor, 
but,  as  a  general  rule,  iiittst  hostesses 'Oiiiit  th"6 
detail. 

'Dancing  Introductions. — The  great'  rtlajorit;^ 
of  dancing  introductio'ns  are  secured'  i'fi'  the 
early  part  of  the  night.  According  tft'tlie  ktri'ct 
code,  a  gentleman  desiring  to  kn6#'  a  lady 
would  just  seek  an  introduction  to  her  husbaiid, 
father,  or  chaperon,  and  through  one  of  these 
he  would  secure  the  desired  pres'entati6'n'.  As 
a  rule,  an  invitation  to  dance  immediately  fol- 


14«  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

lows  tlie  introduction.  All  men  guests  are  ex- 
pected to  seek  the  earliest  opportunity  of  being 
pi'esented  to  the  young  ladies  of  the  house,  and 
to  ask  them  to  dance.  It  is  not  permissible  for 
a  man  to  ask  a  woman  whom  he  does  not  know 
to  dance  with  him;  neither  is  it  the  correct 
thing  for  a  lady  to  pass  without  recognition  a 
gentleman  with  whom  she  has  danced  the 
cotillon,  although  she  is  permitted  the  option 
of  recognizing  or  not,  as  she  chooses,  a  gentle- 
man whom  she  has  met  at  a  ball.  Under  no 
circumstances  should  a  gentleman  be  intro- 
duced to  a  lady  without  first  securing  her  pei-- 
mission,  and  similarly  it  would  be  the  height 
of  bad  form  for  a  man  to  attempt  to  enter  into 
a  conversation  with  a  lady  whom  he  does  not 
know,  simply  because  he  happened  to  have 
waited  upon  her  at  supper  time. 

If  there  are  no  dance  programmes,  the  man 
uses  some  such  conventional  formula  as,  "  May 
I  have  the  pleasure  of  this  dance!  "  or,  "  May  I 

have  the  next  waltz.  Miss 1  "  Occasionally 

a  lament  is  heard  that  the  old  time  cut-and- 
dried  phrases  are  being  dropped  in  favor  of 
our  more  modern  looseness  of  expression,  and 
that,  consequently,  young  people  are  losing  the 
touch  of  chivalrous  respect  that  should  mark 
the  man's  attitude  to  the  woman.  However 
true  this  may  be,  it  may  reasonably  be  urged 


BALLS  147 

that  an  occasional  deviation  from  tlie  strict 
pattern  of  the  law  is  not  in  itself  a  very  great 
crime,  so  long  as  the  manner  and  demeanor  of 
the  petitioner  are  correct.  When  asked  to  dance 
the  lady  is  expected  to  rise  at  once,  accepting 
the  offer  graciously,  but  not  effusively.  It  will 
be  difficult  for  her  to  refuse  a  dance  unless  her 
card  is  full,  or  she  pleads  fatig-ue,  in  which  case 
she  should  be  careful  not  to  accept  another 
offer  for  that  dance.  Neither  should  she  dance 
more  than  two  or  three  times  with  the  same 
man  unless  she  is  prepared  to  risk  the  notice 
such  preference  would  surely  excite.  The 
social  code  demands  that  men  and  women  alike 
be  careful  of  their  dancing  engagements  and 
impartially  strict  in  their  discharge.  The  man, 
in  particular,  should  be  very  prompt  in  claiming 
the  dances  promised  him,  for  it  is  an  unpardon- 
able rudeness  not  to  be  on  hand  when  the  music 
strikes  up.  There  are  some  fortunate  persons 
who  never  seem  to  be  overheated,  out  of  breath, 
dizzy,  pant  more  than  is  correct,  or  suffer  from 
chronic  blushing — and  these  are  indeed  to  be 
envied.  Yet  it  is  possible  for  any  person  to 
develop  more  or  less  control  in  any  one  of  these 
directions. 

Masters  of  the  art  of  dancing  seem  to  have 
solved  the  problem  of  conversing  naturally  and 
easily  with  a  partner,  no  matter  what  conditions 


148  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

oif  WliMing  rhythni  foi*  tll6  moment  obtain. 
'Even  to  the  stolid  non-dancing  mian  th'61-e'ig  a 
'fascination'  ii  the'  rhythmic  progression  of  ttvo 
such  cTaiicers.  I'he  easy  movements 'of  th'e 
Tiian,  perfectly  composed' and  in  absolute  unison 
with  his  i^artiier  ahd  the  mitsic,^ — the  swaying, 
gracefill;  pliafit  Woman,  yielding  perfect  6\)edi- 
efice  to  every  throb  6f  the 'melody  that  is 'ckrry^ 
ing  her  'flying  feet  throiigh  space,  and  com- 
pletely responsive'  t'o  the  m'6VemeiitS  of  her 
partner,'— this  is  diancing'.'  It  do^s'not  follow 
thkt,  to '  obta'in  '  slich"'  a  result;'  the  'partners 
should  tave  daneed  'together  frequently,  or 
even  that  they  shonld' be 'temperamentally  akin 
to  each  ot'hCTfit  needs  only  skill  in  t'hei  steps  of 
the  dance  and  a  niattiral'  siisdeptibility  to  'Aythm, 
f OY  the  mysterious  telepatby  of  the' dance— or 
Whiatever  elfee '  the '  p'sycHolbgiSt  prefers'  to  call 
it^-^t^ill  'instantly  enable  two '  sUch  partners  to 
dance  as  one.  'Experts  maintain  that' the  secret 
of  a  graceful,  eaS}''  dancing  iiiOVement  lies'  in 
'  allowing '  the  body  to  work  '  autOmA'ticallj*^— of 
cour'se  after  being  Well  trained— arid  keeping 
in  practice.  "Wlien  the  man  is 'iiriable  to  ''  re- 
verse'" 6asily,"or  Wheii  he  happens  to  have  a 
partner  whom  he  cannot  even  pioneer,  lie  Will 
find  it  the  part  of  wisdom  to  steer  clear  of  the 
vOrtex  as  much  as  possible,  seeking  the  4meter 
parts  of  the  floOr^  ""  '■"   ■""'  "'  '  "  '''      ' ''  "  ' 


BALLS 149 

ilfan^e/:.w7>flwc?'w5';— Nothing  puts  the  stamp 
of  beijig  a  stranger  to, good  society  on  a  man  sp 
much  as  an,  awkward  manner  of  holding;  his 
pfirtney,  The  correct  position  is  for  hun  to^ 
place  his  arm  half-way  about  her  waist,  as  a 
me^p^pf  support  and  guidance,  his  hand  rest- 
ing, on  the  middle,  of  her  back,  near  her  waist. , 
Her.  right. hand  rests  lightly  in  his  left— hers 
uppermost.  The  man's  elbow  is  bent  slightly 
in  holding  .his  partner's  hand  in  position,  which 
ordiuarily  is  a  .little  below  the  lady's  shoulder. 
Her  right  arm  .consequently  is  almost  straight, 
while  her  left  hand. is  placed  on  her  partner's 
shoulder,.. or,  if  ..necessary,  on  his  arm,  pust 
below. the  shoulder. 

Time  was  .when  the.  waltz  was  regarded  with 
very  great  .suspicion,.  In  .fact,  at  the  beginning 
of.the.ninete^pth  .century,  even  liberal,  gayety- 
loving  Paris  compromised  in  the  dispute  as  to 
the.  propriety  o.f.  the  newly-imported  German 
dance  by  ;0.ccasionally  giving  two  ladies  to  each 
gentleman,  or  two  gentlemen  to  the  lady.  The 
great,  objection,  apparently,  was  the  "danger- 
ous "..tete-a-tete  the  waltz  afforded,  with  the 
"  unseemly  arm  about  the  .waist  "  running  it  a 
close  second.  Sometimes  it  happens— although 
very  rarely,  it  should  be  said,  in  justice  to 
modern  .society— that,  a  man  forgets  himself 
and  unconsciously  hold.s.his  partner  too  tightly^ 


J50  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


The  instant  dropping  of  the  lady's  hand  from 
the  man's  shoulder  so  that  it  rests  between  her 
partner  and  herself  will  usually  bring  the  man 
to  his  senses.  If  this  should  not  succeed,  the  fer- 
tility of  resource  of  the  average  American  girl 
will  easily  supply  some  pretext  which  will  free 
her  from  her  unpleasant  partner,  and  at  the 
same  time  bring  home  to  the  man  the  lady's 
evident  displeasure. 

The  Interval  behveen  Dances. — After  every 
dance,  a  young  lady  should  return  to  her  chap- 
eron, unless  the  affair  is  private  or  semi-pri- 
vate, as  in  the  case  of  subscription  dances, 
when  she  is  usually  accorded  more  latitude.  It 
is  the  privilege  of  the  man,  after  dancing,  to 
walk  about  the  rooms  a  little,  securing  any  re- 
freshments his  companion  may  desire,  or  sit- 
ting a  while  in  the  cooler  air,  after  which  he 
may  plead  another  engagement  and  escort  the 
lady  back  to  her  chaperon.  The  necessity  for 
pleading  another  engagement  should  never 
arise  if  the  lady  in  the  case  is  at  all  careful, 
for  certainly  the  suggestion  that  she  be  taken 
back  to  her  chaperon  would  come  with  far 
better  grace  from  her. 

The  uuchaperoned  girl  is  responsible  for 
many  awkward  situations.  For  instance,  when, 
after  having  danced  and  promenaded  a  little 
while,  the  music  begins  the  next  dance,  and  hoih 


BALLS  151 

she  and  hei-  partner  discover  they  have  no  en- 
gagement, it  is  the  duty  of  the  lady  to  find  some 
means  of  releasing  the  man.  This  is  not  al- 
ways possible,  and  the  resiilt  is  a  painful  sit- 
uation. Practically  the  best  and  only  thing  to 
do  is  to  laugh  the  incident  away  by  a  frank  con- 
fession of  the  dilemma.  She  may  also  be  made 
to  suffer  most  keenly  because  of  the  lack  of  a 
chaperon;  but  whenever  a  girl  finds  herself  in 
an  unpleasant  predicament,  she  has  the  right 
to  call  on  any  older  lady  present  for  the  con- 
ventional privilege  of  her  chaperonage.  The 
lady  whose  support  is  asked  for  may  be  a  total 
stranger,  but  that  does  not  alter  the  case;  she 
(the  dancer)  should  ask  her  escort  to  leave  her 
at  the  lady's  side,  and  after  his  departure  ex- 
plain the  circumstances  of  the  situation  to  her. 

A  well-bred  girl  is  i)articularly  attentive  to 
her  mother  or  chaperon,  no  matter  how  full  of 
enjoyment  her  own  night  may  be.  She  will 
present  her  friends  to  her  whenever  possible, 
and  every  little  while  will  stop  and  s):)end  a 
moment  with  her,  if  only  to  let  her  see  how 
heartily  her  charge  is  enjoying  herself.  At 
this  point  it  will  be  well  to  take  up  the  more 
important  varieties  of  dancing  entertainments. 

Subscription  Balls.— At  these  functions  the 
patronesses  form  a  semicircular  group  near 
the   entrance    to    the   ballroom,    greeting    the 


J52  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

guests  with  gracious  bows,  or  giviiig  their  "hand 
to  distinguished  guests,  or  personal  friends. 
The  moment  supper  is  annoiiiiced  the  leader  of 
the  patronesses  takes  the  arrh  of  the  guest  sTie 
would  honor,  and  the  rest  follow.  The  guests 
sit  together,  if  the  supper  is  to  1)'e  served  in 

courses.     ' 

■  Cinderella  Dances  yfere  originally  meant  to 
close  promptly  at  midnight,  but  the  haine,"  in 
that  sense  at  least,  is  frequently  a  liiisnoiher.' 

Assembli/  Dances  'are  probably  tlie  most  im- 
portant as  weir  as  the  most  exclusive  fonns  of 
subscription  balls.  In  fashionable  centres  the 
"  Assembly  "  has  a  social  office  very  like  the 
presentation  at  the  English  Court,  in  that  it  is 
at  these  affairs  very  many  of  our  debutantes 
are  introduced  to  society.     "  " 

The  Private  Ball  has  the  advantage  of  being 
free  in  a  manner  from  what  has  been  described 
as  the  "  red  tape  of  social  exhibition,"  and 
the  clever  hostess  will  confine  her  invitations 
to  those  whom  she  believes  to  be  congenial  to 
each  other. 

House  Dances  differ  little  in  the  matter  of 
preparations  from  those  already  described. 
Possibly  the  only  difference  is  in  their  greater 
simplicity.  There  should  be  an'  awning  and 
carpet  from  tlie  curb  to  the  entrance,  and  the 
usualmitside  men  should  be  employed  to  facili- 


BAIfLS.    i^3 

tate  .the  comfort  of  tjie.  guests,  both  comipg  and 
gQing.;  Dressing-rooms  are  .provided,  /sphere 
the.. maids  who,  have,  a,ccQm,panied. their  misr 
tress.es may  stay  until  the  dance  is  over^,,or 
until  their  mistresses  Ifiayp.  .The  careful  host- 
ess, will  inyiteifully  ,t.e»  p,er  cent.  mo,re.men  than 
w.omen,. .  One  or  .t\v.0i friends. usually  are  asked 
to  make  the  necessary,  introdvictipiis  between 
the  gue^sts,  because  .  the .  ]iostess  is .  unable. ,  to 
leave  .her  place  while  the.  guests,  are  arriving, 
W.hen  supper  time  arrives,  the:  host  leads  t.be 
way. ,witk  some. lady  to, whom  he.  wishes  to  dis- 
play, special  consideration.. .    ; . 

,  Dinner.  l)ances  aje.a.m.o,ng;,the  mo,st  successr 
ful  of  .all  dancing  .entCii^tainmeuts. .  .Ordinarily 
the., dining  resources  of  the.hoiise  are  taxed  tO 
the  limit,  while  others  ar.e  iftyited  for  the.  danc- 
ing.which, is. to.fo.How.  .^Dinner,  dance. is  a.yery 
elastic. .  term, :  covering  a,  .yarietj':  ;all  the;  way 
from  the  very  smartest  aff.aj.r  to  the  mere.st  jm.- 
pjomptu  of  a  haudf uj  of  .young  peop.le.  .Some 
of  .the  mo.st  effective  and..',' ultra:sm.art  "  din- 
ner dances  have  been,  arr.anged  .by. .the.  coToperaj 
tion  .of  a.. few  friends, .  K.a.ch  ,one  gi.ves  a  dinner 
to  twenty  or  more  gues.ts,  after  which  they,  are 
driven,  to.  the. house  of^  still  another,  ho^te^s, 
who  entertains  with  a. cotillon  and  light  snppejr. 
It  -wilLbe  seen  tliat  this.  idea,. is,  capable  of..^.. 
variety,  of  applications. .;     .  i.:^, 


154  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

Costume  Ball. — This  form  of  amusement  is 
not  by  any  means  as  common  in  the  United 
States  or  England  as  it  is  on  the  continent  of 
Europe.  Possibly  the  lack  of  that  quality  of 
vivid  imagination  which  distinguishes  the  con- 
tinental European,  and  enables  him  to  endow  a 
costume  of  the  most  ordinary  material  with 
almost  royal  splendor,  is  responsible  for  it,  but 
whatever  the  cause,  the  fact  remains  that  the 
average  American  business  man,  and  particu- 
larly the  American  paterfamilias,  has  a  strong 
objection  to  arraying  himself  in  the  garments  of 
any  other  period  than  his  own.  Yet  the  costume 
ball  has  an  artistic  and  fpsthetic  value  that  is 
not  to  be  denied.  Another  reason  undoubtedly 
is  that  to  the  English-speaking  races  costume 
or  fancy-dress  balls  are  associated  with  the 
traditional  masked  balls  of  unlimited  license. 
Nothing  could  be  further  from  the  truth,  and 
undoubtedly  the  blame  is  to  be  laid  at  the  door 
of  the  impressionistic  French  novelist,  or, 
more  correctly  speaking,  of  his  dull-witted 
English  imitator.  Certain  it  is  that  they  are 
among  the  most  elegant  and  interesting  of  so- 
ciety functions,  and  not  by  any  means  as  ex- 
pensive as  they  would  seem.  The  trouble  is 
that  the  average  American  dreads  the  tawdry 
and  loathes  sham;  and  if  the  typical  American 
girl  is  dressed  as  Mary  Queen  of  Scots,  it  is 


BALLS  155 

safe  to  say  that,  instead  of  the  "  stagey  "  cos- 
tume that  would  tempt  her  most  aristocratic 
J'rench  cousin,  she  is  garbed  in  a  dress  that 
would  probably  have  altered  the  world's  his- 
tory had  poor  Queen  Mary  laid  eyes  on  it. 
This  is  not  by  any  means  necessary,  but  so  long 
as  the  present  opinion  prevails,  just  so  long 
will  the  costume  ball  be  limited  to  the  few. 

A  prominent  feature  is  the  court  minuet, 
danced  by  selected  and  coached  people,  which 
invariably  opens  the  ball.  Of  course  a  good 
teacher  will  be  required  if  the  dance  is  to  be 
performed  with  the  requisite  dignity  and  state- 
liness,  and  the  train  and  fan  given  their  proper 
share  of  manipulation.  From  the  point  of  view 
of  the  hostess,  providing  she  can  interest  her 
desired  guests  in  the  matter,  nothing  could 
redound  more  to  her  credit  as  an  entertainer, 
for  it  is  characteristic  of  humanity  that  they 
take  far  greater  interest  and  enjoyment  in  any- 
thing which  gives  them  employment  or  taxes 
their  ingenuity.  The  centre  of  interest  ceases 
to  be  the  hostess  or  her  establishment,  but  is 
instead  the  bewildering  audience  of  which  they 
themselves  are  a  part.  A  little  originality  on 
the  part  of  the  projectors  of  a  costume  ball 
may  lead  to,  or  be  the  means  of,  any  number 
of  amusing  frolics. 
Barn  Dances  are  among  the  social  vagaries 


J56  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


of  autumu,  althougli  the  fun  and  frolic  to  be 
derived  from  them  are  independent  of  either 
time,  place,  or  season.    A  description  of  one 
given  by  one  of  the  most  successful  hostesses 
in  the  East  will  give  a  general  idea  of  the  really 
smart  barn  dance.     The  stable,  one  of  the  most 
luxurious   in   the   "  animal  world,"    was   the 
scene  of  the  festivity.     The  horses  were  sent 
elsewhere,  and  the  vacant  stalls  converted  into 
a  veritable  paradise  of  greenery,  and  made  lux- 
urious with  rugs  and  seats  covered  with  the 
reddest  of  red  cushions,  and  filled  with  the  most 
deliciously   aromatic   pine   balsam.    The  box- 
stalls  served  as  the  buffet,  from  which  were  dis- 
pensed lemonade,  punch,  and  the  usual  refresh- 
ments incidental   to   all   entertainments.     The 
walls  were  hung  with  leaves,  grain,  and  garden 
foliage.     The  border  of  ripe  wheat  formed  a 
very  pointed  contrast  to  the  glowing  maple 
leaves  above.      Japanese  lanterns,  suspended 
from  the  ceiling,  sent  soft  rays  of  light  through 
the  autumn-tinted  foliage,  while  on  every  hand 
tin    sconces,    enclosing    lighted    candles    and 
dressed  with  bunches  of  bright  leaves,  lent  their 
aid  to  the  general  effect.    The  favors  for  the 
cotillon  consisted  of  whips,  photograph  frames 
in  the  shape  of  horseshoes  or  stirrups,  tiny 
silver  whistles,  vegetables,  fruits,  etc.,  artisti- 
callv  manufactured  from  silk,  flowers  in  baskets 


BALLS  157 

of  burs  or  birch  bark,  and  numerous  other  de- 
vices typical  of  rural  life.  Supper  was  an- 
nounced on  the  coach-horn,  and  was  served  at 
the  house.  The  evening's  frolic  concluded  with 
the  dancing  of  the  Virginia  reel. 

Dancing  Classes  are  a  distinctive  feature  of 
the  social  life  of  all  great  American  cities,  and, 
in  a  lesser  degree,  of  every  American  town. 
As  a  rule  each  "  set  "  has  its  own  class,  the 
dances  being  given  in  some  suitable  public 
room,  hired  for  the  occasion.  A  committee  of 
ladies  makes  all  arrangements  for  the  affair — ■ 
room,  supper,  music,  and  cotillon  favors — and 
all  invitations  to  membership  are  subjected  to 
their  censorship.  Each  member  receives  per- 
forated cards  of  admission,  so  that  they  may 
be  readily  detached  and  inscribed  with  the  name 
of  the  guest  and  the  date  of  each  meeting.  The 
expense,  of  course,  is  determined  by  the  local 
conditions,  but  in  large  cities  it  averages  about 
fifteen  or  sixteen  dollars  for  a  season  of  six 
meetings.  The  patronesses  receive  the  young 
people,  and  make  it  their  own  special  province 
to  see  that  every  member  gets  the  maximum  of 
enjoyment  out  of  his  membership,  so  far  as 
dances,  partners,  favors,  etc.,  are  concerned. 

I'he  Cotillon  usually  takes  place  after  supper 
unless  it  is  to  be  made  the  feature  of  the  night, 
in  which  case  the  guests  are  invited  exclusively 


158  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


for  it,  and  supper  is  served  at  its  close.  The 
cotillon,  or  "  German,"  as  it  was  originally, 
and  is  still  frequently  called,  is  said  to  have 
had  its  origin  at  the  German  Court  of  Aiy  la- 
Chapelle,  at  a  ball  given  to  the  allied  foreigners 
shortly  after  the  battle  of  Waterloo.  At  any 
rate,  that  was  the  occasion  of  its  first  public 
prominence.  Invitations  for  a  cotillon  should 
always  include  enough  men  to  form  a  reserve 
in  the  event  of  failures  to  respond.  The  sexes 
should  be  as  nearly  as  possible  equal,  the  host- 
ess always  remembering  that  the  success  of  a 
cotillon  rests  on  three  important  points:  the 
selection  of  a  leader,  the  choice  of  favors,  and 
the  assignment  of  dancers.  The  chairs  are 
numbered  and  backed  against  the  walls  in 
pairs;  duplicates  of  the  numbers  are  given  to 
the  men  guests  by  the  leader  of  the  cotillon,  or 
else  drawn  from  a  basket,  neatly  decorated,  and 
presented  to  the  guest  immediately  upon  his 
arrival.  In  the  case  of  friends  who  wish  to 
sit  together,  an  exchange  is  easily  effected. 

The  Leader  of  a  Cotillon  should  be  a  man  of 
resource,  thoroughly  posted  in  the  duties  of  his 
position,  and  aware  of,  and  prepared  for,  its 
difficulties.  Once  the  hostess  is  assured  of  his 
tact,  experience,  and  executive  ability,  it  will  be 
to  her  advantage  to  give  him  her  fullest  con- 
fidence.   As  a  matter  of  fact,  few  men  are  will- 


BALLS 159 

ing  to  assume  the  responsibility  unless  forti- 
fied by  the  most  absolute  confidence  of  their 
hostess.  Once  the  post  is  accepted,  however,  he 
should  call  promptly  upon  her  and  arrange  a 
complete  imderstanding  as  to  figures,  favors, 
etc.  On  the  evening  of  the  ball  he  should  be 
present  in  good  time,  with  his  entire  plan  of 
campaign  clearly  and  unalterably  defined.  Al- 
though he  may,  if  he  so  elects,  dance  alone,  cus- 
tom demands  that  he  choose  his  hostess,  if  she 
is  young,  or  possibly  one  of  her  daughters. 
Etiquette  does  not  lay  down  any  rule  on  the 
subject,  however,  and  he  would  be  entirely 
within  his  right  if  he  chose  some  one  else.  He 
would  place  her  at  the  head  of  the  ballroom, 
confident  in  her  recognition  of  his  enforced 
neglect  of  her  in  the  pursuance  of  his  many 
duties.  The  most  successful  leader  is  he  who 
contrives  to  select  figures  that  bring  as  many 
players  as  possible  on  the  floor  at  the  same 
time.  He  must  enforce  his  authority  courte- 
ously, gently,  but  very  determinedly.  What- 
ever his  signals,  whether  a  whistle  or  a  clap  of 
his  hands,  he  must  insist  on  the  implicit  obedi- 
ence of  the  dancers.  He  notifies  the  waiting 
couples  by  some  such  hurried  warning  as, 
"  you  are  up,  and  you,  and  you,"  etc.  In  guid- 
ing them  through  the  movement  he  offers  his 
hand  to  the  women,  and  directs  the  men  when 


(60  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

necessary  by  a  touch  on  tlie  arm.  In  the  favor 
figures  he  (and  his  partner,  should  he  have  one) 
distributes  the  favors  to  the  dancers  while 
seated,  or  else  directs  them  where  they  may  be 
obtained. 

Cotillon  Etiquette. — Partners  are  frequently 
engaged  for  the  cotillon  from  the  first  moment 
the  possibility  of  such  an  event  is  known,  al- 
though there  are  invariably  some  engagements 
left  open  until  the  night  of  the  dance.  A  guest, 
finding  he  is  not  acquainted  with  any  of  the 
ladies,  should  ask  his  hostess  or  a  friend  to  in- 
troduce him  to  one.  Under  no  circumstances 
should  he  dance  "  stag  "  when  there  are  ladies 
without  partners.  Similarly,  it  is  an  unpar- 
donable sin  for  a  man  to  ask  a  lady  for  the 
cotillon  or  for  supper,  and  then  forget  the  en- 
gagement. He  is  expected  to  remind  her  of  it 
the  moment  he  sees  her  enter  the  room,  and 
make  sure  that  he  is  on  hand  in  good  time  to 
claim  her  promise.  Should  he  send  his  cotillon 
partner  a  bouquet — a  courtesy  which  is  per- 
fectly discretionary — the  lady  should  show  her 
appreciation  of  the  gift  by  carrying  the  flowers 
or  wearing  them.  He  will  inevitably  send 
flowers  on  the  night  of  the  ball,  if  through  sick- 
ness or  other  accident  he  has  previously  been 
compelled  to  forego  the  engagement.  Tbe  lady 
equally  is  required  to  notify  the  gentleman  the 


BALLS 161 

moment  she  knows  it  will  not  be  possible  for 
her  to  keep  the  engagement.  Although  spe- 
cially true  of  the  cotillon,  the  rule  holds  good 
in  every  dancing-room  that  the  gentleman  will 
devote  most  of  his  attention  to  his  partner, 
giving  to  his  neighbors  no  more  attention  than 
the  circumstances  demand. 

Sometimes,  owing  to  a  scarcity  of  men,  the 
hostess  is  unable  to  find  a  partner  for  a  woman 
guest,  in  which  case  it  is  incumbent  upon  the 
guest  to  relieve  her  hostess  of  the  problem  by 
going  home.  When  the  cotillon  is  left  for  the 
latter  part  of  the  evening,  many  of  the  older 
people  take  their  leave  before  the  dance  com- 
mences. 

Nothing  will  bring  upon  a  dancer  a  quicker 
dislike  than  to  be  disobedient  to  the  signals  of 
the  leader,  unless  it  be  the  practice  of  stealing 
dances,  or  dancing  out  of  turn. 

When  a  man  favors  a  girl  he  is  expected  to 
remain  with  her  in  the  absence  of  her  partner- 
should  his  own  partner  be  dancing  with  another 
—until  the  man  returns,  when  he  will  yield  to 
him,  and  gradually  bring  his  conversation  to  a 
close.  The  moment  his  own  partner  returns 
she  is  entitled  to  his  entire  attention. 

In  the  case  of  a  girl  favoring  a  man  by  offer- 
ing him  the  token  of  her  preference,  he  must 
rise  at  once,  and,  thanking  her,  attach  the  favor 


162  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

to  his  coat.  After  dancing  with  her  he  escorts 
her  to  her  seat  again,  thanking  her  before  leav- 
ing to  rejoin  his  own  partner. 

The  "  souvenir  "  is  a  favor  of  greater  in- 
trinsic value,  or  handsomer  than  the  rest,  and 
exchanged  between  two  partners.  The  unwrit- 
ten law  regarding  favors  demands  that  the 
recipients  of  such  favors  shall  make  a  return 
during  the  evening.  The  man  must  be  espe- 
cially prompt  in  this  respect. 

The  Favors  are  arranged  upon  a  couple  of 
tables  at  the  end  of  the  room,  much  care  being 
taken  with  their  artistic  arrangement.  The 
hostess,  assisted  by  friends, — or  the  patron- 
esses, as  the  case  may  be, — gives  out  the  favors 
to  those  who,  in  their  turn,  present  them  to  the 
persons  with  whom  they  hope  to  dance.  Some- 
times this  duty  is  performed  by  the  leader  and 
his  partner.  It  is  not  necessary  to  provide 
costly  favors;  the  whole  spirit  of  the  cotillon 
is  to  make  the  favor  the  simple  badge  or  mark 
of  the  popularity  in  which  its  recipient  is  held. 
They  should  be  characterized  by  novelty,  orig- 
inality, and  daintiness  rather  than  by  the  dull 
vulgarity  of  commonplace  expensiveness. 

Debutante  Dances. — To  the  fortunate  girl  in 
whose  honor  the  festivity  is  held,  the  night  of 
her  first  ball  as  a  new  society  recruit  is  one  of 
the  red-letter  events  of  her  life.     Standing  with 


BALLS  163 

her  parents  by  the  main  entrance  to  the  ball- 
room, or  surrounded  by  a  bevy  of  young  friends 
as  youthful  and  joyous  as  herself,  the  debutante 
is  regarded  as  the  central  figure  of  the  occasion. 
Arriving  guests  are  introduced,  or  vice  versa, 
by  the  mother  or  chaperon  of  the  debutante, 
who,  in  turn,  may  introduce  her  assisting 
friends  if  she  so  desires.  If  her  hands  are  free 
she  is  expected  to  offer  her  right  hand  in 
acknowledging  introductions;  failing  this,  a 
very  cordial  expression  of  her  gratification  is 
due  to  all  who  offer  her  their  congratulations. 
She  should  honor  all  her  dancing  engagements, 
but  must  return  after  every  dance  to  her 
mother's  side,  to  share  the  task  of  receiving 
friends  or  bidding  the  departing  guest  fare- 
well. 

THE  HOST 

There  are  other  functions  pertaining  to  the 
head  of  the  family  than  those  of  a  treasurer. 
Should  his  name  appear  on  the  invitations  his 
wife  issues,  he  must  of  necessity  share  in  the 
actual  work  of  receiving  and  entertaining 
guests.  Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the 
average  American  business  man  has  little  time 
— and  more  often  than  not  still  less  inclination 
— for  social  affairs,  his  reputation  for  charming 
hospitality  is  world-wide. 

Loyalty  to  his  family  would  seem  to  be  the 


164  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

cardinal  principle  of  liis  life,  for  Ms  genial 
nature  is  always  prepared  to  second  the  efforts 
of  his  wife  and  daughters  in  their  hospitable 
plans  and  projects.  Properly,  his  place  is  at 
his  wife's  side  welcoming  the  guests,  although 
society  does  not  stamp  him  a  barbarian  if  he 
shirks  the  duty.  Should  he  be  a  good  dancer^ 
he  is  required  to  place  his  ability  at  the  dis- 
posal of  his  wife,  who  will  see  that  he  dances 
with  those  of  the  fair  guests  who  seem  least 
attended.  If  he  is  not  a  dancing  man,  he  will 
still  find  a  great  field  for  the  exercise  of  his 
conversational  talents  by  giving  himself  up  to 
the  entertainment  of  the  wallflowers  and  chap- 
erons. Also  he  must  keep  an  eye  on  the  neg- 
lected damsels  and  see  that  they  get  partners 
occasionally.  In  one  respect  he  is  his  wife's 
private  policeman,  for  she  looks  to  him  to  see 
that  there  is  no  lounging  in  the  doorways  or 
cloakroom,  and  also  that  the  liquid  hospitality 
of  the  smoking-room  does  not  enter  into  too 
close  a  rivalry  with  the  ballroom. 

If  there  are  sons  in  the  family,  they  should 
devote  themselves  to  seconding  the  efforts  of 
their  parents,  making  their  own  personal  en- 
jojTuent  wait  upon  that  of  their  guests.  At 
supper  time  the  host  takes  in  the  most  impor- 
tant chaperon  present,  seating  her  on  his  right 
hand.    If  it  is  a  buffet  supper,  he  takes  in  first 


^ BALLS  J6S 

one,  then  anothei",  looking  after  the  comfort  of 
all.  He  is  assisted  by  his  son,  or  sons,  who 
throughout  the  evening  have  made  it  a  special 
point  to  see  that  young  men  unprovided  with 
partners  have  been  properly  introduced.  In 
the  matter  of  introductions  it  is  not  absolutely 
necessary  for  the  host  or  his  son  to  first  ask 
the  young  lady  whether  she  will  permit  the  in- 
troduction, for  to  the  host  all  guests  are  on  the 
same  plane.  However,  it  is  the  wisest  plan  to 
observe  caution  and  first  ascertain  the  lady's 
wishes  before  making  an  introduction. 

THE  HOSTESS 

The  great  problem  to  the  average  hostess  is 
to  reconcile  the  number  of  gTiests  she  feels  she 
ought  to  invite  with  the  space  and  facilities  for 
entertaining  at  her  disposal.  At  a  musicale  or 
club  reception  held  in  a  private  residence, 
crowding,  while  very  objectionable,  is  at  least 
not  altogether  fatal  to  the  success  of  the  gather- 
ing, but  at  a  ball  or  any  other  form  of  enter- 
tainment, where  dancing  is  to  be  the  chief  at- 
traction, a  crowded  room  is  an  abomination, 
and  inevitable  failure  is  the  sure  result.  The 
wise  hostess  usually  comes  to  the  conclusion 
that  it  is  better  to  hurt  the  feelings  of  a  few 
than  to  spoil  the  enjoyment  of  all,  and  accord- 
ingly issues  her  invitations  on  this  basis. 


m  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

There  is  a  considerable  difference  between  a 
ball  and  a  dance  or  party.  The  former  is  an 
elaborate  evening  function,  taxing  to  the  limit 
the  capacity  of  those  giving  the  ball,  and  de- 
voted exclusively  to  dancing.  On  the  other 
hand,  an  evening  party  is  either  a  dance,  or  a 
dinner  and  dance;  but  in  either  event  it  is  far 
less  formal  than  a  ball,  and  besides,  being  of 
smaller  proportions,  is  usually  over  by  mid- 
night. 

A  growing  custom  in  England  as  well  as  our 
own  country  is  to  engage  some  large  public 
salon,  transforming  it  for  the  occasion  into 
the  semblance  of  a  private  ballroom.  In  this 
manner  it  is  possible  to  entertain  to  almost  an 
unlimited  extent.  It  is  a  practice  strongly 
condemned  throughout  continental  Europe,  but 
no  one  familiar  with  the  success  which  society 
leaders,  here  and  in  England,  have  achieved  in 
their  use  of  the  public  rooms  of  Sherry's,  Del- 
monico's,  the  AValdorf-Astoria,  or  the  English 
Hotel  Cecil,  can  doubt  their  very  real  advan- 
tages over  even  the  most  commodious  city  home. 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  great  bulk  of  entertain- 
ing must  of  necessity  take  place  within  the  four 
walls  of  the  average  parlor,  in  which  case  it 
would  be  well  for  the  hostess  to  remember  that 
two  small  entertainments,  where  each  guest  has 
an  oiJpoitunity  of  eujoymeut,  arc  moio  to  be  de- 


BALLS  J67 

sired  than  one  big  one  that  is  crowded.  When 
the  entertainment  is  given  in  one's  own  home, 
the  greatest  care  should  be  taken  to  see  that 
the  ventilation  is  so  arranged  that  the  tempera- 
liii'e  may  be  kept  between  seventy  and  seventy- 
eight  degrees.  The  rooms  should  be  well 
lighted,  but  not  glaring. 

It  has  been  said  that  the  good  hostess  is  ab- 
solutely self -forgetful.  Her  manner  in  receiv- 
ing the  guests  conveys  to  each  one  the  assur- 
ance of  personal  interest  and  her  sense  of  grati- 
fication at  seeing  him  in  her  house.  8hy  or 
diffident  guests  become  instantly  at  home  with 
her,  and  everywhere  her  tactful  presence  is  felt. 
In  the  most  natural  way  possible  she  has  sup- 
plied a  neglected  girl  with  a  partner,  and  that 
without  offending  her  amour  propre.  Young 
men  strive  for  her  favor  by  doing  her  bidding 
wherever  and  whenever  called  upon.  Lonely 
women  sitting  round  the  room,  imsought  and 
unattended,  are  not  known  at  her  entertain- 
ments, neither  are  small  groups  of  idle  men 
lounging  round  the  doorways. 

Sometimes  it  happens  that  the  hostess  of  the 
occasion  is  a  stranger  to  many  of  the  people 
present,  having  issued  invitations  on  the  visit- 
ing list  of  a  friend,  a  method  occasionally  re- 
sorted to  when  entertaining  a  distinguished 
visitor,  or  introducing  a  daughter  to  society. 


168  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

Where  such  is  the  case,  the  cards  of  the  friend 
whose  list  has  been  borrowed  were  enclosed 
with  the  invitation,  and  she  is  required  to  re- 
ceive with  the  hostess,  presenting  her  to  those 
guests  who  otherwise  would  be  strangers  to  her. 
A  good  point  for  the  hostess  to  remember,  when 
giving  a  large  ball  elsewhere  than  in  her  own 
drawing-room,  is  to  invariably  invite  the 
mothers  of  her  unmarried  women  guests,  leav- 
ing it  to  their  discretion  whether  to  be  present 
or  not. 

THE  CHAPERON 

"  A  willing  and  unsung  martyr  "  is  the  way 
one  writer  describes  that  social  saint,  or  sinner 
(according  to  the  point  of  view),  known  as  the 
chaperon!  This,  of  course,  does  not  apply  to 
the  young  girl's  most  natural  chaperon — her 
mother — for  to  her  to  watch  over  her  child  is 
a  natural  duty.  The  child's  triumphs  are  her 
triumphs;  the  daughter's  happiness  is  the 
mother's  joy! 

It  is  the  chaperon  who  is  employed  in  order 
to  satisfy  the  proprieties  that  is  very  often  to 
be  pitied.  She  it  is  who,  with  absolute  disre- 
gard of  self,  devotes  herself  to  the  inventing 
of  new  pleasures  in  which  she  takes  only  an 
observer's  part;  who  must  remain  wakeful, 
alert,  sweet,  and  smiling  until  her  young  charge 


BALLS  169 

has  sipped  the  very  last  drop  of  honey.  But 
the  form  of  chaperonage  most  unpleasant  of 
all  is  to  act  in  that  capacity  when  the  need  for 
its  necessity  is  not  recognized.  In  such  a  pre- 
dicament it  would  be  most  natural  to  feel  keenly 
the  embarrassment  of  being  unwelcome — yet 
such  is  frequently  the  fate  of  the  chaperon. 
It  will  not,  perhaps,  be  amiss  to  discuss  the 
origin  of  chaperonage  in  this  country.  There 
is  no  doubt  the  idea  is  nothing  more  or  less 
than  the  modern  conception  of  the  system 
which,  from  time  immemorial,  has  regarded  the 
woman  as  a  chattel  demanding  more  or  less 
watchful  care;  yet  who  shall  say  that,  in  its 
modern  usage,  the  system  is  not  absolutely 
essential!  The  zealous  imprisonment  of  Mo- 
hammedan femininity  developed  into  the  more 
civilized  but  scarcely  less  liberal  custom  of 
Spain.  In  France  the  chaperon  first  had  her 
real  perfection.  The  Anglo-Saxon  followed, 
not  so  much  from  the  necessity  of  it  as  because 
of  the  slavish  English  imitation  of  French 
fashions.  In  America  it  is  found  in  its  highest 
and  most  perfect  form,  for  here  it  is  regarded 
as  an  evidence  of  the  tender  respect  and  loving 
care  with  which  young  womanhood  should  be 
surrounded.  It  is  one  of  the  elegant  conventions 
of  modern  social  life  and  the  hall-mark  of  good 
society.    Not  very  long  ago  chaperonage  was 


J70  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

bitterly  assailed  as  the  American  counterpart 
of  the  Spanish  duenna  system.  We  were  proud 
of  the  liberality  of  our  traditions;  the  open, 
free  intimacy  that  existed  between  our  American 
boys  and  girls  who,  strong  in  their  innate  sense 
of  moral  responsibility,  discretion,  and  mod- 
esty, resented  the  imputation  which  seemed  in- 
separable from  the  idea  of  a  chaperon.  In 
brief,  we  were  provincial  enough  to  be  able  to 
formulate  our  own  social  laws  and  customs. 
Even  to-day  there  are  many  among  us  who  still 
maintain  this  position,  notwithstanding  the  fact 
that  the  American  man  and  woman  are  to-day 
among  the  leaders  of  the  human  family,  and 
have  a  responsibility  to  civilization  and  the 
world  at  large  never  before  attained  by  any 
other  race  or  nation. 

To  state  the  subject  in  a  few  words,  chap- 
eronage  enhances  the  value  of  the  one  chap- 
eroned, in  which  sense  some  one  has  said  that 
"  young  men  are  apt  to  sigh  for  the  fruit  that 
hangs  highest."  It  protects  the  girl  in  a  thou- 
sand ways,  and  saves  her  from  the  foul  breath 
of  scandal  or  the  lying  intrigues  of  an  enemy. 
It  supplies  her  with  a  friend  and  counsellor  ex- 
perienced in  the  ways  of  the  world  of  men  and 
women,  and  saves  the  girl  from  herself.  How 
often  has  some  innocent,  madcap  prank  of  a 
light-hearted  girl  given  rise  to  suspicions  that 


BALLS  -        m 

blighted  her  whole  after  life !  It  is  a  safe  prop- 
osition that,  failing  a  mother's  care,  no  young 
unmarried  girl  should  attend  a  public  or  semi- 
public  ball.  At  the  present  day  it  is  almost  a 
universal  custom  to  invite  the  mother  or  chap- 
eron of  every  girl  guest  to  the  most  private 
and  select  of  evening  entertainments.  Of 
course,  when  the  mother  or  chaperon  does  not 
see  the  necessity  of  her  attendance,  she  writes 
to  the  hostess,  thanking  her  for  the  invitation, 
pleading  an  excuse,  and  sending  a  maid  with 
her  charge  instead. 

BALL   SUPPERS 

There  is  a  wide  latitude  in  the  matter  of  sup- 
pers of  this  description,  but  the  final  choice  is 
always  determined  by  the  scope  of  the  enter- 
tainment, rather  than  the  facilities  of  the 
household  culinary  department.  In  these  days 
of  unobtrusive  professional  caterers  all  things 
are  possible,  so  that  the  more  ambitious  the 
scope  of  the  ball,  the  more  importance  will 
naturally  be  attached  to  the  supper.  To  begin 
with  the  most  important  functions  of  this  de- 
scription, it  is  usual  to  serve  an  elaborate  meal 
at  midnight.  This  is  not  all,  however,  for  in 
some  easily  accessible  corner  is  kept  a  constant 
supply  of  either  champagne  or  claret  cup, 
punch,    lemonade,    tea,    coffee,    chocolate,   hot 


J72  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


bouillon,— these  latter  kept  at  a  drinkable  tem- 
perature,— and  served  with  cakes  and  tiny- 
sandwiches. 

Frequently  it  happens  that  many  guests  con- 
fine their  gastronomic  attention  to  this  source 
of  supply  rather  than  go  through  the  formal, 
and  ofttimes  stupid,  feast  which  has  been  so 
laboriously  prepared  for  them.  Few  dining- 
rooms  could  bear  the  strain  of  the  usual  ball- 
room crush,  so  that  the  ballroom  itself  is  occa- 
sionally made  the  scene  of  the  midnight  feast. 
At  a  signal  from  the  hostess  servants  appear, 
and  soon  the  floor  is  dotted  by  numerous  small 
tables  adapted  for  four  people  at  most.  The 
supper  is  served  in  courses,  and  (according  to 
the  time  of  year)  may  consist  of  clear  soup 
or  jellied  consomme  with  rolls,  lobster,  terra- 
pin or  game,  hot  pastry,  jellied  meats,  salads, 
sandwiches,  ices,  coffee,  etc.  Claret  or  cham- 
pagne, or  more  often  both,  are  served,  the  or- 
chestra meanwhile  supplying  a  musical  back- 
ground to  the  scene.  It  will  be  seen  that  this  is 
altogether  too  big  an  imdertaking  for  the  aver- 
age entertainer.  More  often  than  not  the  buffet 
supper  suffices.  Indeed,  if  it  was  put  to  the 
vote,  there  is  practically  little  doubt  that  the 
vast  majority  of  people— whether  as  guest  or 
hostess— would  much  prefer  the  more  con- 
venient buffet.    Under  such  circumstances  the 


BALLS  J  73 

family  dining-room  can  be  made  to  answer  the 
purpose.  Chairs  are  placed  against  the  wall; 
the  table  is  performing  its  traditional  groan 
under  the  weight  of  the  good  things  provided ; 
flowers,  bonbons,  fruit  are  in  abundance;  and 
when,  at  eleven  o'clock  or  later,  the  doors  are 
opened  (no  announcement  is  made),  guests  come 
and  go  at  their  own  sweet  will.  In  winter  time 
such  hot  dishes  as  creamed  oysters  with  warm 
finger-rolls;  lobster  a  la  Netvburg;  timbales  of 
fish  or  meat;  terrapin;  minced  meat,  or  the 
many  other  dishes  of  like  character,  may  be 
served.  Usually,  however,  a  hot  dish,  salad, 
ices,  sandwiches,  rolls,  fruit,  bonbons,  coffee, 
and  punch  cover  all  demands.  Guests  are  at 
liberty  to  partake  of  all  or  any  of  the  dishes 
offered,  as  they  choose.  Warm  dishes,  ices,  and 
coffee  are  ordinarily  served  from  the  pantry  by 
serving  men  or  maids,  and  offered  to  the  guests 
as  they  enter  the  room,  together  with  the 
requisite  forks,  spoons,  napkins,  etc.  It  is  a 
safe  assertion  that  the  average  hostess  will  find 
it  much  cheaper,  better,  and  more  convenient 
generally  to  leave  this  whole  matter  in  the 
hands  of  a  caterer  that  she  can  trust,  leaving 
her  own  man  or  maid  to  superintend  the 
caterer. 

For  a  small  dance,  whether  in  town  or  coun- 
try, a  hostess  with  a  couple  of  maids  will  be 


174  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

amply  able  to  satisfy  all  the  demands  of  a 
bullet  supper.  The  guests  may  help  them- 
selves from  a  bowl  of  puuch  or  lemonade  placed 
on  a  table  in  the  hall,  the  servants  seeing  that 
clean  glasses  are  constantly  furnished.  In 
summer  time,  of  course,  hot  dishes  would  be 
out  of  the  question. 

baijL  dkess  for  men  and  women 
The  most  elaborate  evening  costume  is  se- 
lected for  wear  at  a  ball.  Short-sleeved,  de- 
coUetee,  hair  dressed  high,  with  jewels  if  pre- 
ferred, the  well-bred  woman  strives  to  do  honor 
to  her  hostess  as  well  as  herself  by  the  care 
with  which  she  has  prepared  for  the  occasion. 
No  toilet,  providing  it  is  in  good  taste,  is  too 
elaborate  to  do  honor  to  so  brilliant  an  event 
as  a  formal  hall.  For  the  lesser  functions,  the 
hostess  is  always  privileged  more  or  less  in  the 
elaborate  selection  of  her  gowns,  but,  in  the 
country,  simplicity  of  attire  and  the  careful  use 
of  jewels  mark  the  woman  of  good  society. 
The  debutante  wears  white,  or  some  other  cloud- 
like material,  delicately  tinted,  mayhap.  A 
square  or  heart-shaped  bodice;  lace  sleeves  or 
long  gloves  cover  the  arms,  which,  together 
with  the  total  absence  of  jewels,  gives  an  ex- 
quisitely sweet  effect.  She  may  wear  jewels 
wilh  hor  ball  gowns,  but  even  here  it  is  best  to 


BALLS  J75 

use  them  spariugly.  Youth  is  far  more  attract- 
ive than  jewels. 

Dancing  parties  do  not  entail  the  same  elab- 
orate attention  to  expensive  garments  as  we 
have  just  described. 

Men  wear  the  orthodox  dress-suit  or  evening- 
costume,  winter  and  summer  alike.  Many 
freak  attempts  have  been  made  to  inject  a  little 
variety  into  the  sombi-e  garments  custom  has 
decreed  for  men,  but  thus  far  without  avail. 

At  military,  hunt,  and  yacht-squadron  balls, 
the  members  who  are  so  entitled  wear  the  cos- 
tume of  their  organization  unless  otherwise  ar- 
ranged, but  no  guest  who  is  not  entitled  to  a 
uniform  may  do  the  same. 

If  it  happens  that  members  of  a  yachting 
party  are  in  the  vicinity,  the  hostess  may — if 
she  knows  them — invite  them  to  her  dance,  giv- 
ing them  permission  to  wear  their  white  duck 
or  flannel  suits.  Finally,  the  well-bred  man  or 
woman  may  always  be  trusted  to  wear  the  right 
dress  at  the  right  time. 


RECEPTIONS 

The  great  popularity  of  the  afternoon  recep- 
tion, at  least  from  the  hostess'  point  of  view, 
is  easily  accounted  for.  The  entertainment 
to  be  provided  is,  comparatively  speaking, 
very  simple,  an  almost  unlimited  number  of 
guests  may  be  invited  for  the  same  day,  and 
when  the  hostess  has  seen  to  it  that  all  of  her 
preliminary  arrangements  have  been  properly 
made,  she  may  feel  free  from  those  qualms  that 
beset  her  on  the  eve  of  a  dinner  party  or  dance. 

If  her  appointments  are  correct,  and  if  her 
visiting  list  enables  her  to  invite  a  goodly  num- 
ber of  agreeable  g-uests  to  her  house,  she  may 
rest  serene,  confident  in  the  prospect  of  dis- 
charging an  accumulation  of  social  obligations 
with  no  fear  of  a  fiasco.  Her  guests  will  not 
demand  novelty,  or  expect  that  her  reception 
should  dilTer  materially  from  ninety-nine  out 
of  a  hundred  other  similar  entertainments. 

But,  for  this  very  reason, — that  no  original- 
ity is  required  in  the  details, — the  hostess  will 
be  all  the  more  particular  to  see,  in  making  her 
preparations,  that  everything  is  done  properly, 
and  that  such  arrangements  as  she  does  make 
J76 


RECEPTIONS  177 

are  effective,  in  good  taste,  and  convenient  for 
her  guests. 

Everything  should  be  of  the  very  best  that 
can  be  procured.  The  discriminating  guest 
will  be  more  agreeably  impressed  by  simple, 
but  elegant,  and  particularly  delicious  refresh- 
ments than  by  a  vast  display  from  the  caterer's ; 
by  a  few  superb  flowers  artistically  arranged 
than  by  heterogeneous  masses  transplanted 
wholesale  from  the  florist's  window. 

The  general  tone  of  the  rooms,  the  walls, 
hangings,  etc.,  should  be  taken  into  considera- 
tion in  selecting  the  flowers,  candle-shades,  or 
whatever  will  be  striking  in  color,  in  the  way  of 
decoration;  the  final  effect  should,  above  all 
things,  be  harmonious. 

INVITATIONS 

For  the  elegant  and  elaborate  reception,  the 
invitations,  which  should  be  issued  about  two 
weeks  in  advance  of  the  date,  follow  the  usual 
form: 

Mrs.  and  Mrs.  John  Henry  Smith 

At  Home 

on  Thursday,  June  the  first, 

from  four  until  seven  o'clock. 

Fifty-two  West  Third  Street. 


178  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

If  the  reception  is  only  an  afternoon  aflfair 
to  which  men  are  not  invited,  of  course  the 
name  of  the  hostess'  husband  does  not  appear 
with  her  own  on  the  imitation.  If  tlie  name  of 
a  daughter  is  to  be  given  as  well,  it  appears 
on  a  line  directly  below  that  of  her  mother.  In 
case  the  reception  is  given  to  mark  the  debut 
of  a  younger  daughter  her  name  is  given  in 
full,  below  that  of  the  elder,  or  else  the  name 
of  the  elder  daughter  is  omitted  altogether. 

If  the  entertainment  be  given  in  special 
honor  of  some  other  person,  the  name  of  such 
guest  of  honor  appears  at  the  bottom  of  the 
card  of  invitation,  thus: 

To  meet 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  Jones. 

In  the  case  of  the  mere  "  informal  tea,"  the 
invitation  consists  of  simply  the  hostess'  visit- 
ing card,  issued  perhaps  a  week  in  advance, 
with  the  date  and  hours  wi-itten  in  ink  below 
the  engraved  name,  thus : 

Thursday,  June  the  first, 
from  three  to  six  o'clock. 

If  there  is  a  special  guest  of  honor,  the  host- 


RECEPTIONS 


ess  writes  at  the  top  of  her  card  the  additional 
line: 

To  meet  Mrs.  Charles  Jones. 

ACKNOWLEDGING  INVITATIONS 

It  is  not  correct  to  send  a  written  acceptance 
of  the  invitation  to  an  "  At  Home,"  or  a 
"  Tea."  One's  presence  at  the  appointed  time 
is  all  that  is  necessary. 

If  the  recipient  of  the  invitation  does  not 
expect  to  attend,  however,  acknowledgment 
should  be  made  on  the  day  of  the  entertain- 
ment by  merely  sending  a  visiting  card,  by 
post,  or  better,  by  special  messenger. 

If  the  invitation  is  given  in  the  names  of 
more  than  one  woman,  two  cards  should  be 
sent  for  regrets ;  if  in  the  name  of  husband  and 
wife,  the  woman  regretting  sends  one  card  only, 
the  man  two,  the  reason  for  this  distinction 
being,  of  course,  that  a  woman  would  not  send 
a  card  to  her  hostess '  husband. 

In  the  case  of  a  mother  and  several  daugh- 
ters entertaining  together,  some  persons  leave 
a  number  of  cards,  one  for  each ;  but  as  a  rule 
two  cards  will  be  considered  sufficient,  and 
many  persons  regard  a  greater  number  as  in- 
elegant. 


180  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


THE  EECEPTION 

Imagine  yourself  arriving  as  an  imited 
guest  at  a  ceremonious  reception. 

You  may,  if  you  are  Mrs.  or  Miss  Jones,  be 
wearing  your  smartest  morning  gown,  thougli 
you  will  feel  far  better  pleased  with  yourself 
to  be  encased  in  something  more  elaborate- 
say,  a  handsome  reception  gown  (high-necked, 
of  course),  with  a  rich  hat  or  bonnet  to  corre- 
spond, light  gloves,  etc. 

You  are  certain  to  find  your  hostess  decked 
out  in  such  a  costume  of  her  very  best,  out  of 
compliment  to  her  guests;  she  wears  a  train 
and  is  probably  more  gorgeously  bejewelled 
than  her  visitors.  She  and  her  assistant 
hostesses  do  not,  of  course,  wear  hats  or 
bonnets. 

At  the  evening  reception,  hostess  and  guests 
alike  wear  full-dress,  decollete,  and  you  would 
no  more  think  of  appearing  in  your  bonnet  on 
such  an  occasion  than  in  your  rubbers. 

At  an  informal  tea  the  usual  visiting  cos- 
tume is  all-sufficient. 

If  you  have  the  ill-luck  to  be  Mr.  Jones,  in- 
stead of  Mrs.  or  Miss,  you  must  be  clad,  for 
the  afternoon,  in  your  frock  coat  (or,  now- 
adays, your  "  cutaway,"  if  you  prefer),  light 
trousers,  light  tie  and  gloves,  and  patent  boots. 


Receptions  ist 

The  frock  coat  demands,  the  cutaway  forbids, 
the  top  hat. 

Whatever  else  you  may  or  may  not  do,  don't 
wear  your  gloves  in  the  drawing-room!  If 
there  is  danger  of  your  forgetting  this,  leave 
them  at  home ;  you  might  almost  as  well  neglect 
to  remove  your  hat  as  to  offer  your  hostess  a 
gloved  hand.  The  gloved  hand  (male)  is  some- 
times offered  to  a  woman  on  the  stage — in  so- 
ciety never. 

In  the  evening  you  must  wear  full  dress  with 
white  waistcoat,  white  bow  tie,  and  gloves. 

Now,  being  finally  arrayed  and  in  your  right 
mind,  you  arrive  at  the  house  at  such  time  be- 
tween the  hours  named  in  the  invitation  as  best 
suits  your  convenience.  Don't  go  so  early  as 
to  suggest  the  eager  child,  who  can  hardly  wait 
for  the  hour  of  the  birthday-party  to  arrive, 
and  whohas  to  be  ultimately  dragged  home;  on 
the  other  hand,  go  early  enough  to  make  your 
stay  of  the  requisite  fifteen  minutes  or  half- 
hour  and  still  escape  before  the  hours  of  invita- 
tion have  expired. 

If  the  entertainment  is  an  elaborate  affair, 
you  find  a  strip  of  carpet  rolled  from  the  door  to 
the  curb,  and,  in  bad  weather,  an  awning  erected 
over  it,  with  a  man-servant  at  the  entrance  to 
open  carriage  doors,  give  numbers,  etc. 

As  you  reach  the  house  door  it  is  thrown 


J82  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS    

open  by  a  servant,  who  directs  you  to  the 
dressing-room;  there  another  attendant  takes 
charge  of  your  wraps,  if  you  are  burdened  with 
any  that  you  prefer  not  to  wear  in  the  house. 
Upon  descending  to  the  drawing-room,  your 
husband,  if  any,  in  the  rear,  you  may  be  met 
at  the  threshold  by  the  pompous  butler.  This 
is  a  very  dismaying  experience,  but  keep  your 
presence  of  mind — if  you  can  remember  your 
name  and  mention  it  to  him,  all  is  well ;  he  will 
repeat  the  name  that  you  have  confided  to  him 
so  loudly  that  the  hostess,  without  a  moment's 
hesitation,  greets  you  as  if  you  were  her  dear- 
est friend,  regardless  of  the  fact  that  to  her 
you  are  only  "  Nellie's  red-haired  cousin." 

The  hostess  stands  just  inside  the  drawing- 
room  door,  gives  you  her  hand  and  the  smile- 
that-won 't-come-off-from-three-to-six,  and  after 
a  brief,  cordial  greeting,  if  other  guests  are  be- 
hind you,  passes  you  on  to  her  husband,  daugh- 
ter, or  other  assistant  hostess  with  an  intro- 
duction, if  needed. 

Don't  delay  the  procession  on  entering. 
Your  room  is  better  than  your  company  in 
front  of  the  receiving  line,  and  if  you  haven't 
sense  enough  to  get  yourself  off  you  will  be 
forcibly  removed  in  the  direction  of  the  dining- 
room  or  other  remote  spot. 

At  about  this  time  you  are  very  likely  to  be 


RECEPTIONS  J83 


sorry  you  came,  but  keep  the  fact  to  yourself^ 
cheer  up — think  how  pretty  the  flowers  are, 
how  badlj'  your  neighbor  is  dressed,  or  admire 
the  artificial  lights  (the  daylight  is  always  ex- 
cluded at  receptions  because  it  costs  nothing) ; 
say  some  of  these  pleasant  things  to  any  friend 
you  are  lucky  enough  to  spy  out,  and  tell  her 
how  you  love  that  Hungarian  orchestra  over 
there  in  the  alcove  behind  those  palms,  espe- 
ciaJhj  when  it  plays  Sfrauss—^i  you  feel  sure 
that  it  isn't  a  German  band  discoursing 
Wagner. 

Much  of  the  furniture  has  been  removed 
from  the  reception  rooms,  so  you  find  it  easy 
to  make  your  way  gracefully  and  unconsciously 
toward  the  dining-room,  which  is  better  than  to 
make  the  dash  of  a  bloodhound  in  that  direc- 
tion the  moment  you  have  dropped  the  hostess' 
hand,  after  the  manner  of  One  with  a  Steady 
Purpose.  When  you  find  yourself,  to  your 
mild  surprise,  in  the  dining-room,  you  accept  the 
situation  thrust  upon  you,  and  beam  and  purr 
over  the  charming  arrangement  of  the  tables, 
with  their  flowers,  silver,  and  glass;  if  the  en- 
tertainment is  not  of  too  stately  an  order  young 
women  are  seated  at  the  ends  of  the  table,  one 
pouring  chocolate,  the  other  tea — if  it  be  after- 
noon— coffee,  if  evening.  Punch,  perhaps,  in 
the  corner! 


J84  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


Finally  some  one  offers  you  something— you 
can't  help  that.  If  you  want  it,  take  it.  If 
not,  having  learned  to  say  "no,"  be  firm. 
Don't  sample  everything,  and  remember  that 
chocolate  and  coffee  are  better  not  mixed,  even 
if  it  is  a  free  lunch;  on  the  other  hand,  get  out 
of  the  dining-room  quickly  if  you  don't  want 
anything — there  are  others  who  do.  At  an 
elaborate  reception  do  not  be  surprised  to  see 
a  large  table  heaped  with  salads  and  sand- 
wiches, cream,  cake,  bonbons,  etc. 

Servants  will  see  that  guests  are  served ;  they 
also  remove  used  plates,  etc.  But  you  must  not 
expect  to  be  seated;  eating  is  not  the  serious 
business  of  the  day,  and  there  isn't  room,  un- 
less you  are  entitled  to  the  prerogatives  of  roy- 
alty or  extreme  age  and  infirmity. 

If  you  yearn  for  wine,  cast  your  eye  casually 
upon  the  sideboard;  there  may  be  wine  and 
there  may  not. 

Seek  not  for  souvenirs  to  carry  home !  Even 
being  a  grandmother  will  not  excuse  your  tak- 
ing "  one  of  those  pretty  bonbons  "  home  to 
little  Algernon  in  your  pocket;  buy  Algernon 
something  at  a  shop  on  your  way  home  if  he 
must  have  it. 

At  a  vast  formal  gathering  the  hostess  will 
not  expect  you  to  make  any  adieux— she  has 
her  hands  full  in  greeting  the  arrivals,  and 


RECEPTIONS  J  85 

should  not  be  obliged  to  speed  the  parting 
guest  as  well.  At  every  afternoon  reception  it 
is  good  form  to  leave  your  cards  in  the  hall 
before  taking  your  departure;  you  will  prob- 
ably find  a  convenient  tray  or  salver  for  the 
purpose.  The  same  number  of  cards  should  be 
left  as  you  would  send  for  regrets  if  you  were 
not  attending. 

Cards  are  not  commonly  left  at  an  evening 
reception. 

If  men  have  been  generally  included  in  the 
list  of  guests — in  other  words,  if  the  invitation 
is  given  in  the  name  of  the  hostess'  husband 
as  well  as  in  her  own,  the  host  stands  by  his 
wife's  side,  receiving  the  guests  immediately 
after  she  has  greeted  them.  This,  however,  is 
not  so  important  unless  the  host  and  hostess 
are  young  people  entertaining  shortly  after 
their  marriage,  and,  in  any  case,  the  host  is 
free  to  move  about  among  the  guests,  especially 
toward  the  close  of  the  reception.  The  hostess 
should  not  stir  from  her  post  during  the  recep- 
tion hour;  nothing  is  more  painfully  embar- 
rassing to  the  guest  who  may  be  a  stranger  to 
most  of  the  people  present  than  to  arrive  and 
not  find  the  hostess  immediately,  with  her  cor- 
dial greeting.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  enter- 
tainment is  in  honor  of  a  special  guest,  she 
should  be  taken  by  the  host,  before  its  close,  to 


J86  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

the  dining-room,  where  he  sees  that  refresh- 
ments are  offered  to  her. 

An  assistant  hostess  can  do  much  to  deserve 
the  name  by  moving  about  the  rooms,  seeing 
that  guests  are  not  left  stranded,  suggesting  a 
trip  to  the  dining-room,  making  an  occasional 
introduction,  and  breaking  up  those  stupid 
blockades  which  are  often  caused  by  the  gather- 
ing of  all  the  guests  in  one  spot — in  short,  she 
should  keep  things  moving. 

THE  DEBUT 

At  a  debut,  the  debutante  stands  next  her 
mother,  in  the  position  of  honor,  and  is  very 
particularly  presented  to  all  the  guests  as  they 
enter. 

It  is  considered  in  good  taste  for  her  to  be 
gowned  simply — as  elegantly  as  she  chooses, 
but  not  too  elaborately.  There  should  be,  on 
this  occasion,  some  suggestion  of  the  "  sweet 
girl  graduate  ' '  in  the  simplicity  of  her  attire — 
white  is  most  in  favor — as  distinguished  from 
the  more  gorgeous  gowns,  jewels,  etc.,  which 
she  may  elect  to  wear  at  subsequent  entertain- 
ments. 


MUSICALES  AND  DRAMATICS 

When  the  hostess  craves  something  in  the 
way  of  novelty,  a  favorite  form  of  entertain- 
ment is  private  theatricals,  or  a  musicale.  The 
musicale  is  better  adapted  to  the  amusement  of 
older  guests,  as  amateur  dramatics  are  apt  to 
pall  upon  the  blase. 

THE  MUSICALE 

One  point  to  bear  in  mind  in  planning  a 
musicale  is  that  the  performers  should  provide 
a  diversity  of  entertainment.  If  there  are  to 
be  several,  do  not  have  more  than  one  solo 
pianist,  as  a  rule,  or  more  than  one  performer 
on  any  single  instrument.  There  is  so  much 
variety  in  the  human  voice  that  it  is  not  ob- 
jectionable to  engage  several  vocalists,  though 
it  would  be  better  to  have  a  contralto,  or  a  male 
voice,  with  a  soprano,  for  instance,  than  to 
have  two  or  three  sopranos. 

The  average  auditor  enjoys  listening  to  sing- 
ing more  than  to  any  instrumental  music,  so  it 
is  well  to  have  your  programme  made  up 
largely  of  songs  with  only  a  few  instrumental 
numbers. 

187 


J88  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

The  piano  and  tlie  violin,  when  well  played, 
appeal  to  almost  all  music-lovers;  such  other 
instruments  as  the  harp  rarely  interest,  aside 
from  their  novelty.  Have  only  the  very  best 
performers  obtainable,  and  cut  the  list  short 
rather  than  add  to  it  an  artist  who  is  below  the 
general  standard.  The  inevitable  comparison 
is  unfair  to  that  less  gifted  or  experienced  mu- 
sician, and  also  most  trying  to  the  audience. 

Just  as  the  style  of  music  is  to  be  varied,  so 
should  one  take  pains,  in  arranging  the  pro- 
gramme, to  select  numbers  which  afford  variety. 
An  entire  evening  of  "  Beloved,  beloved," 
"  Eyes,  lips,  and  glances,"  is  almost  nauseat- 
ing; unlimited  grand  opera  is  a  strain  to  those 
lacking  the  severe  classical  taste;  and  more 
than  one  broadly  "  funny  "  song  is  not  to  be 
endured  by  those  who  resent  the  harnessing  to- 
gether of  jokes  and  music  di\"ine. 

Do  not  allow  the  vocalists  to  select  from  their 
repertoire  only  songs  written  in  a  foreign 
tongue;  one  or  two  in  French,  Italian,  or  Ger- 
man will  suffice  to  enable  the  superior  linguist 
to  gloat  visibly  over  the  rest  of  the  audience  in 
the  certainty  as  to  whether  a  smile  or  a  pensive 
look  is  called  for;  and  those  who  are  less  for- 
tunate resent  the  awkward  position  in  which 
they  find  themselves  when  cut  loose  from  their 
native  tongue. 


MUSICALES  AND  DRAMATICS  J89 

One  of  the  commonest  mistakes  in  arranging 
for  a  musicale  in  a  private  house  is  the  crowd- 
ing of  the  music-rooms  with  rows  of  chairs 
placed  so  close  together  as  to  make  the  guests 
most  uncomfortable.  It  is  generally  necessary 
to  employ  those  convenient  little  folding-chairs 
which  one  hires  for  such  occasions,  but  if  your 
rooms  are  small,  then  let  your  guest  list  be  also 
very  limited;  better  offer  a  comfortable  even- 
ing's entertainment  to  a  few  guests  than  im- 
press your  entire  acquaintance  with  the  idea 
that  they  have  been  treated  like  sardines. 

Do  not  have  too  long  a  programme,  and  when 
it  is  about  half  over  there  should  be  an  inter- 
mission of  some  minutes.  Indeed,  the  pro- 
gramme should  not  be  rushed  through  at  any 
point;  all  the  songs  are  more  effective  for 
a  little  pause  between  them,  and  an  audi- 
ence enjoys  exchanging  comments  on  each 
number. 

If  there  are  many  performers,  it  is  well  to 
avoid  encores,  if  possible,  as  the  natural  cour- 
tesy of  the  invited  audience  inclines  it  to  extend 
such  a  compliment  to  every  performer,  regard- 
less of  merit,  if  an  encore  has  been  demanded 
from  any  one  of  their  number.  The  evident 
wishes  of  the  audience,  however,  must  of  course 
control,  unless  the  performer  be  one  of  the 
great  professional  aiii'ts,  who  has  unshakable 


J90  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

rules  on  the  subject  and  who  is  definitely  en- 
gaged for  only  certain  songs. 


INVITATIONS 

The  cards  issued  for  an  elaborate  musicale 
are  in  all  respects  similar  to  those  for  a  recep- 
tion, with  the  addition  of  the  single  word 
"  Music,  or  "  Musicale,"  in  the  lower  left  cor- 
ner. For  a  less  formal  afternoon  musicale, 
this  word  may  be  added  in  writing  to  the  in- 
vitation upon  the  hostess'  visiting  card,  as  sug- 
gested in  the  article  on  "  Keceptions,"  al- 
though, for  even  an  afternoon  entertainment 
of  elegant  and  elaborate  appointments,  the  en- 
graved cards  are  more  suitable. 

As  with  the  case  of  ordinary  receptions,  in- 
vitations to  a  musicale  in  the  words  "  At 
Home,"  according  to  the  visiting-card  form,  are 
acknowledged  merely  by  attendance,  or  by  the 
sending  of  visiting  cards  as  regrets. 

On  the  other  hand,  any  invitation  requesting 
the  pleasure  of  one's  compamj  (with  the  single 
exception  of  the  invitation  to  a  church  wed- 
ding) requires  a  formal,  written  acceptance,  or 
regret,  in  the  third  person. 

The  arrangement  of  the  dining-room,  the 
serving  of  refreshments,  etc.,  are  the  same  as 
at  the  reception  without  special  music,  except- 


MUSICALES  AND  DRAMATICS  >9l 

ing  that  less  elaborate  refreshments  are  suit- 
able in  the  case  of  the  musicale. 

Hostess  and  guests  are  costumed  as  for  the 
ordinary  reception. 

Servants  remove  the  extra  chairs  from  the 
music-room  at  the  conclusion  of  the  pro- 
gramme, allowing  the  guests  to  move  about 
freely. 

As  punctual  attendance  is  expected  at  a 
musicale,  the  hostess  will  not  find  it  necessary 
to  stand  by  her  place  at  the  drawing-room  door 
throughout  the  entire  time  named  in  her  invita- 
tion, as  in  the  case  at  a  simple  reception,  when 
the  guests  come  at  any  time  between  the  hours 
stated. 

Simple  little  programmes,  attractively 
printed,  should  be  provided  for  the  guests. 

At  the  very  informal  afternoon  "  tea  with 
music,"  there  need  not  be  any  set  programme. 
The  numbers  may  be  rendered  at  intervals  dur- 
ing the  reception  hours. 

PRIVATE  THEATRICALS 

History  has  yet  to  chronicle  the  time  when 
amateur  dramatics  have  been  successfully  car- 
ried through  without  real  tribulation,  at  one 
stage  or  another,  on  the  part  of  the  "  man- 
ager. ' ' 

Unless  the  hostess  has  had  real  experience 


192  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

in  just  such  undertakings,  she  will  be  wise  if, 
after  deciding  on  this,  to  many,  very  interest- 
ing form  of  entertainment,  she  secures  the  aid 
of  some  friend,  man  or  woman,  whose  experi- 
ence and  enthusiasm  fit  him  or  her  for  the  role 
of  "  manager  ";  to  this  friend  she  should  dele- 
gate all  authority,  and  the  word  of  this  man- 
ager must  be  law  throughout  the  rehearsals. 

It  is  a  well-known  fact  that  professional 
actors,  however  often  their  "  artistic  tempera- 
ment "  may  lead  them  to  disregard  the  con- 
ventional obligations  of  business  and  social  life, 
are,  nevertheless,  most  punctilious  about  re- 
hearsals. It  is  a  professional  crime  to  be  late 
for  a  rehearsal,  and  to  be  altogether  absent 
from  one  amounts  almost  to  a  capital  offence. 

Furthermore,  although  in  the  heat  of  sudden 
anger  or  impatience,  they  may  wrangle  and  dis- 
pute with  their  manager,  in  cooler  moments 
they  will  always  recognize  the  fact  that  the 
word  of  the  person  directing  rehearsals  should 
be  final  on  all  points. 

These  are  excellent  things  for  the  amateur 
to  keep  before  him. 

In  other  words,  the  discipline  at  rehearsals 
should  be  almost  military;  the  best  managers 
are  despotic,  and  it  is  from  the  natural  hesita- 
tion on  the  part  of  the  society  manager  to 
play  this  role  of  despot,  as  well  as  from  the  un- 


MUSICALES  AND  DRAMATICS  J93 

willingness  of  the  amateur  actor  to  be  tyran- 
nized over,  that  the  endless  conflicts  result,  end- 
ing finally  in  that  state  of  mutiny  which  has 
come  to  be  considered  characteristic  of  amateur 
theatricals. 

However,  some  men  and  many  women  in  so- 
ciety display  a  great  fitness  for  this  very  task 
of  "  producing  "  a  play;  they  combine  en- 
thusiasm, dramatic  instinct,  and  tact  in  dealing 
with  people;  to  such  a  one  the  task  should  be 
entrusted. 

In  the  more  ambitious  of  amateur  efforts,  the 
services  of  a  professional  "  coach  "  are  often 
engaged.  This  should  ensure  a  certain  degree 
of  professional  atmosphere  and  of  "  finish  " 
for  the  performance,  besides  relieving  the  host- 
ess of  much  responsibility  regarding  details. 
Also,  it  is  a  very  real  advantage  when  the  per- 
formers will  more  readily  submit  to  sugges- 
tions and  directions  from  such  a  professional 
manager  than  from  one  chosen  from  their  own 
circle. 

The  hostess,  of  course,  at  a  private  enter- 
tainment, invites  or  requests  those  friends  who 
have  been  selected  to  take  part,  though  she 
should  consult  with  her  manager  first  in  mak- 
ing uiJ  the  cast.  She  commonly  considers  it 
the  part  of  wisdom  and  tact  to  choose  her  ama- 
teur i^erformers   from   a   small   clique  whose 


J94  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

members  are  on  very  intimate  terms  with  one 
another.  This  is  a  mistake.  As  a  matter  of 
fact  and  experience,  the  players  are  frequently 
more  seriously  hampered  by  embarrassment 
and  self-consciousness  in  performing  scenes 
with  their  most  intimate  friends  than  with  per- 
sons whom  they  know  only  slightly.  In  the 
presence  of  the  latter  they  find  it  easier  to  for- 
get their  own  personality,  which  should  be  lost 
in  that  of  the  character  portrayed. 

For  the  leading  roles,  one  or  two  persons 
must  be  secured  who  have  shown  real  talent  for 
this  sort  of  entertainment.  In  the  selection  of 
minor  characters,  remember,  if  quite  inexperi- 
enced young  people  must  be  taken,  that  per- 
sonal beauty  and  grace  in  the  young  women, 
ease  of  manner  and  self-possession  in  the  men, 
go  a  great  way  toward  making  the  performance 
a  pleasure  rather  than  a  pain  to  the  audience. 

Sometimes,  it  must  be  admitted,  in  amateur 
dramatics,  as,  alas !  in  the  theatrical  profession 
itself,  interest  centres  in  the  personality  of  a 
performer,  and  the  audience  enjoys  watching 
the  work,  whether  meritorious  or  not,  of  the 
social  lion,  whose  part  may  have  been  assigned 
solely  because  of  the  abnormal  interest  that  the 
"  world  "  takes  in  all  of  the  doings  of  this 
particular  personage. 

If  the  performance  is  exijcrimental — unless 


MUSICALES  AND  DRAMATICS 


the  amateur  artists  are  tried  "  old  stagers  "  of 
proved  ability — a  very  light  comedy  or  farce  is 
the  only  style  of  play  that  should  be  attempted. 
The  classic  drama,  as  rendered  by  one's  nearest 
and  dearest,  with  a  doorway  or  arch  separating 
players  and  audience,  or  emotional  scenes  by 
self-conscious  acquaintances,  painfully  and 
visibly  embarrassed  by  their  costumes,  are  al- 
most more  than  those  of  us  can  bear  who  are 
blessed  with  a  sense  of  humor. 


THEATRE  PARTIES 

The  first  essential  of  attendance  upon  the 
theatre  or  opera  is  to  endeavor  to  be  in  one's 
place  a  few  minutes  before  the  performance 
begins.  If  for  good  reason  one  is  late,  it  is 
only  considerate  to  remain  in  the  lobby  until 
the  first  scene  or  number  is  completed  before 
taking  one's  place.  Wraps  should  be  removed 
before  reaching  the  seats,  and  this  may  be  done 
either  in  the  lobby  or  on  the  way  to  the  seats. 
In  ordinary  attendance  at  the  theatre  or  opera 
the  seats  have  been  procured  in  advance.  A 
lady  should  not  be  detained  in  the  public  lobby 
while  the  gentleman  takes  his  place  in  the  line 
and  secures  such  seats  as  he  may  be  able  to 
procure.  The  ladies  precede  the  gentleman  to 
the  ticket-taker's  position,  where  he  first  pre- 
sents the  tickets,  receives  the  coupons,  procures 
a  programme  for  each  person,  and  again  allows 
the  ladies  to  precede  him  as  he  gives  the  cou- 
pons to  the  usher.  On  reaching  the  seats  the 
wraps,  if  not  checked  in  the  lobby,  are  placed 
over  the  back  of  the  seat,  and  the  ladies  at  once 
remove  their  hats.  These  are  either  placed 
under  the  seats  or  are  laid  in  the  lap.     Should 

m 


THEATRE  PARTIES  197 

a  lady  neglect  to  remove  her  liat,  it  is  quite 
proper  for  those  behind  to  politely  ask  that  she 
do  so.  No  lady  will  refuse  to  comply  or  -will 
be  offended  by  the  request.  It  is  also  proper 
for  the  person  making  the  request  to  thank  her 
upon  the  first  sign  of  compliance. 

If  a  box  is  taken,  the  wraps  are  removed  out- 
side of  the  box.  On  entering,  the  chaperons  or 
elderly  ladies  precede.  It  is  their  privilege 
to  occupy  the  seats  nearest  to  the  rail,  but  they 
usually  waive  this  in  favor  of  the  younger 
ladies.  The  gentlemen  take  seats  in  the  rear 
of  the  party.  No  gentleman  will  leave  a  lady 
alone  in  a  box.  lie  will  ask  her  to  walk  about. 
Should  she  not  desire  to  do  so,  it  is  his  place 
to  remain  with  her.  While  it  is  regarded  as  a 
manly  prerogative  to  leave  the  seat  between 
acts,  no  gentleman  will  do  so  more  than  once 
during  a  performance.  Should  he  do  so  more 
than  once  he  ought  to  witness  the  remainder 
of  the  performance  from  the  rear  of  the  hall 
rather  than  climb  over  the  other  occupants  so 
often.  It  is  well  to  place  the  coupons,  by  which 
the  seats  are  held,  in  the  waistcoat  pocket, 
rather  than  in  the  wraps,  as  it  is  sometimes 
necessary  to  have  them  convenient  in  case  of 
dispute  or  mistake. 

The  most  important  point  to  be  remembered 
in  attendance  on  theatre  or  opera  is  not  to  dis- 


J98  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

tiirb  those  in  the  vicinity  who  wish  to  hear  the 
performance  by  talking  or  any  avoidable  noise. 
Even  the  rattling  of  the  programme  is  annoy- 
ing. It  is  to  be  remembered  that  the  intervals 
and  intermission  will  afford  abundant  oppor- 
tunity for  such  conversation  as  one  desires  to 
indulge  in  while  in  attendance  upon  a  theatrical 
or  operatic  performance.  The  recounting  of 
what  is  coming  next  in  the  play,  so  often  in- 
dulged in  through  a  vain  desire  to  "  air  one's 
erudition,"  or  the  hmnming  of  the  tune  and 
keeping  time  with  hands  or  feet,  are  extremely 
annoying.  Should  any  be  guilty  of  such  gross 
rudeness,  it  is  quite  right  and  proper  to  ask 
them  to  desist.  If  they  have  done  it  thought- 
lessly, they  will  apologize  and  refrain  from  re- 
peating the  offence;  but  if  it  was  done  from 
ignorance  and  rudeness,  no  fear  need  be  enter- 
tained of  injuring  their  feelings. 

In  applauding,  hand-clapping  is  sufficient 
demonstration  of  approval.  Stamping,  whis- 
tling, and  cat-calling  are  the  chartered  rights 
of  the  "  gods  "  only. 

Calling  during  the  intermission  is  often  in- 
dulged in  by  those  occupying  boxes,  as  well  as 
those  in  the  body  of  the  house.  There  is  an 
objection  to  its  indulgence  by  the  latter,  except 
among  those  who  occupy  aisle  seats.  When 
calling  in  a  box,  if  the  bos  door  is  locked,  it  is 


THEATRE  PARTIES  J99 

proper  to  knock  upon  the  door  for  permission 
to  enter.  If  there  is  only  a  portiere,  entrance 
should  be  quietly  effected,  and  the  call  made.  If 
a  person  is  known  only  to  a  gentleman  in  the 
box,  the  call  would  better  not  be  made.  If  one 
knows  only  a  lady  in  the  party,  she  should  in- 
troduce the  caller  to  the  chaperon  of  her  party. 
She  is  not  expected  to  introduce  her  caller  to 
any  of  the  others  unless  she  pleases,  and  such 
introductions  do  not  obligate  either  party  to 
further  acquaintance.  The  call  should  termi- 
nate before  the  performance  begins  again. 

If  a  gentleman  escorts  a  lady  to  the  theatre, 
the  proper  dress  is  full  evening  dress.  This 
means  the  long-tailed  coat  and  the  silk  top  hat, 
or  black  opera  hat,  which  is  more  convenient. 
The  short-skirted  dinner  coat,  or  "  Tuxedo," 
may  be  worn  with  gentlemen  or  with  a  lady 
who  is  nearly  related  to  him,  but  not  otherwise. 
If  a  gentleman  is  in  company  with  his  wife  or 
near  relative  and  other  ladies,  or  if  he  is  one 
of  a  party  in  a  box,  the  long-tailed  coat  must 
be  worn,  (ientlemen's  gloves  are  white  and 
are  worn  throughout  the  performance.  This  is 
not  imperative,  and  is  by  no  means  general. 
Dark  gloves  are  worn  and  are  laid  aside  with 
the  wraps. 

Ladies  who  occupy  seats  in  the  orchestra  of 
a  theatre  should  wear  high-necked  and  long- 


200  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

sleeved  dresses.  Those  who  occupy  boxes  wear 
low-necked  and  short-sleeved  dresses — in  fact, 
are  privileged  to  wear  ball-dresses. 

Strictly  speaking,  good  society  does  not  permit 
a  young  unmarried  lady  to  attend  the  theatre 
or  opera  without  a  chaperon.  Where  men  and 
women  have  an  acquaintance  of  long  standing 
strict  interpretation  of  this  law  is  not  insisted 
upon.  But  a  theatre  party  must  be  i^roperly 
chaperoned;  and  this  is  insisted  upon  in  the 
case  of  a  party  of  young  people,  when  the 
theatre  is  followed  by  a  supper.  The  chaperon 
must  meet  her  charges  punctually,  and  her 
duties  are  not  over  until  she  sees  them  properly 
returned  to  their  homes.  It  is  not  necessary 
that  she  escort  them  home  in  person,  but  she 
must  know  that  they  are  properly  attended 
thither. 

A  theatre  party  may  either  follow  a  dinner 
or  be  followed  by  a  supper.  It  should  be  com- 
posed of  an  equal  number  of  ladies  and  gentle- 
men. To  secure  this  it  is  only  fitting  that  the 
invitations  be  issued  a  week  or  ten  days  in  ad- 
vance, to  enable  each  guest  invited  to  make  ar- 
rangements to  be  there.  It  is  not  usual  to  issue 
engraved  invitations,  nor  should  the  invitations 
be  verbal.  The  points  to  observe  in  the  written 
invitation  are  the  time,  place,  kind  of  perform- 
ance, and  the  statement  as  to  whether  the  seats 


THEATRE  PARTIES  20( 

are  orchestra  or  box.  This  latter  is  necessary 
to  enable  the  ladies  to  dress  properly.  The 
hour  will  tell  the  guests  whether  there  is  a  din- 
ner before  or  a  supper  afterward.  This  form 
may  be  used: 

628  Forest  Street, 
January  3rd,  19 — . 
Deab  Miss  Gibson: 

We  are  planning  a  box-party  at  the  Grand 
for  Thursday  evening  of  next  week  to  see 
Maude  Adams  in  "  L'Aiglon."  My  sister,  Mrs. 
Jamieson,  will  chaperon  us,  and,  if  you  will 
kindly  consent  to  join  us,  tve  7vill  number  eight. 
If  this  is  quite  agreeable  to  you  ive  ivill  call 
for  yoxi  at  half-past  seven. 

Most  sincerely  yours, 

Charles  F.  Simonds, 

The  seats  are  obtained  beforehand,  and  are 
gotten  well  forward  and  close  together.  If  it 
is  the  intention  to  provide  dinner  before  the 
theatre,  the  dinner  should  be  called  promptly 
at  6.30  o'clock,  so  as  to  allow  ample  margin  to 
reach  the  theatre  in  time.  If  the  dinner  is  held 
at  an  hotel  or  cafe,  and  if  the  party  is  a  box- 
party,  the  dinner  must  be  laid  in  a  private 
dining-room,  as  the  ladies  will  be  in  full  even- 
ing dress.    If  it  is  a  theatre  party,  orchestra 


202  THE  MODERN  HOSTE^ ^__ 

seats  are  quite  proper.  A  box  is  supplied,  if 
possible,  for  the  opera. 

On  all  occasions  where  a  dinner  is  given  at 
a  cafe  or  public  dining-room,  the  table  must  be 
secured  some  time  before  to  avoid  disappoint- 
ment. Arrangements  should  be  made  for  the 
sort  of  dinner  required,  even  to  the  prepara- 
tion of  the  menu.  This  is  a  great  aid  in  the 
good  service  of  the  dinner.  The  hostess,  or  the 
bachelor,  as  the  case  may  be,  is  on  hand  early 
to  receive  the  guests  in  the  lobby,  to  check  the 
wraps  for  the  ladies.  When  all  of  the  guests 
have  arrived,  the  way  is  led  to  the  dining-room, 
the  host  leading  with  the  chaperon,  or  the  host- 
ess leading,  as  the  case  may  be.  The  ladies 
and  gentlemen  of  the  party  do  not  enter  arm- 
in-arm.  The  places  are  indicated  by  a  card  at 
each  cover.  It  is  not  obligatory  to  wait  more 
than  five  minutes  for  a  tardy  guest.  The  din- 
ner is  then  carried  out,  in  all  respects,  similarly 
to  one  given  at  a  private  house.  In  seating  the 
party  the  host  should  reserve  for  himself  and 
the  chaperon  the  seats  nearest  the  aisle  if  the 
seats  are  in  the  orchestra.  In  elaborate  and 
expensive  affairs  the  host  sends  his  guests 
home  in  a  carriage. 

Sometimes  the  host  sends  the  tickets  to  the 
houses  of  the  invited  guests,  and  either  awaits 
them  in  the  lobby  of  the  theatre,  when  all  go 


THEATRE  PARTIES  203 

in  together,  or  takes  bis  place  in  the  theatre 
and  sahites  his  guests  on  arrival,  by  rising  to 
greet  them. 

There  is  greater  need  of  long  notice  to  the 
guests,  and  of  more  prompt  acknowledgment 
by  the  guest,  in  the  case  of  theatre  parties  than 
in  ordinary  parties  or  receptions.  Invitations 
must  be  very  explicit  as  to  day,  hour,  and  place 
of  meeting.  There  is  such  need  of  advance 
preparation  and  notice  on  occasions  of  this  kind, 
that  there  must  be  no  delays  or  misunderstand- 
ing. 


GARDEN  PARTIES 

A  GARDEN  party  is  nothing  less  than  a  recep- 
tion held  out-of-doors.  The  only  modifications 
are  those  which  the  place  entails.  There  is 
much  in  f^vor  of  making  the  most  of  the  gar- 
dens, flowers,  trees,  and  lawns  on  days  when 
the  weather  permits.  Every  one  enjoys  the 
cool  shade  and  the  abundant  room  on  these 
occasions.  If  hostesses,  in  their  summer  resi- 
dences, realized  the  greater  comfort  to  their 
guests,  they  would  utilize  these  accessories 
more  than  they  do. 

The  fickleness  of  the  weather  is  the  only  con- 
tingency for  which  the  hostess  must  be  pre- 
pared, to  meet  which  only  reasonable  foresight 
is  necessary. 

When  preparations  are  made  for  a  garden 
party,  or  fete  champetre,  there  must  also  be 
ample  provision  for  transferring  the  reception 
easily  and  quickly  from  the  garden  to  the  house 
in  case  of  bad  weather. 

If  the  occasion  is  formal,  engraved  invita- 
tions must  be  used.  They  are  in  block  letters 
or  black  script  on  white  paper  or  cards,  and 
may  be  worded  thus : 

204 


GARDEN  PARTIES  205 

3Irs.  Charles  Edmund 
requests  the  pleasure  of 


company  on  Thursday  afternoon, 

July  third, 

from  four  until  seven  o'clock. 

Garden  Party.  The  Bower. 

Or  the  invitation  may  take  the  form  of  an 
"  At  Home  "  card  with  the  words  "  Garden 
Party  "  in  the  lower  left-hand  corner.  It  is 
desirable  to  furnish  your  guests  with  necessary 
information  about  the  arrival  and  departure 
of  trains. 

On  informal  occasions  an  ordinary  letter  of 
invitation  may  be  sent  either  by  mail  or  mes- 
senger. These  notes  are  of  such  friendly  tone 
as  the  acquaintance  with  the  person  invited  will 
warrant.  The  invitations  are  answered  in  the 
usual  way.  One  may  prepare  for  the  occasion 
according  to  the  style  of  invitation  sent  out, 
knowing  that  if  printed  cards  are  used  the  en- 
tertainment will  be  formal. 

It  is  a  common  custom  for  the  hostess  to  send 
her  visiting  card  with  the  words  "  Garden 
Party  "  on  the  lower  left-hand  corner  and  the 


206  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

time  and  place  on  the  lower  right.  In  reply 
to  one  of  these  an  invited  guest  will  answer  with 
a  polite  note. 

The  preparations  involve  putting  both  the 
garden  and  house  in  order.  The  lawn  is 
mowed ;  gravel  walks  are  rolled,  and  chairs  are 
placed  about  in  shady  places  and  on  the  ve- 
randas. The  house  is  decorated  with  flowers 
and  the  doors  and  windows  left  open  and  in- 
viting. 

The  hostess  may  undulge  her  taste  in  music, 
and  provide  it  in  any  form  convenient  or  pleas- 
ing to  her,  or  may  omit  it  altogether. 

If  the  place  is  large  enough  to  afford  room 
for  games  of  croquet,  tennis,  or  golf,  all  of 
these  opportunities  should  be  offered  to  the 
guests.  The  chief  amusements  are  of  a  social 
nature,  the  guests  moving  freely  about,  and 
partaking  of  refreshment.  It  is,  therefore,  not 
necessary  to  provide  a  chair  for  each  guest; 
but  comfortable  lounging  places,  wicker  or 
rustic  chairs,  benches,  and  settees  are  always 
acceptable.  It  is  also  well  to  spread  rugs  here 
and  there  where  the  ground  may  be  damp. 
Especial  attention  must  be  paid  to  the  comfort 
of  the  delicate  or  old. 

The  refreshments  will  include  such  berries 
and  fruits  as  may  be  in  season,  with  ices,  cold 
drinks,  cakes,  sandwiches,  salad,  claret,  or  other 


GARDEN  PARTIES  207 

cup,  and  lemonade.  These  are  served  under  an 
awning,  tent,  or  bower  decorated  with  flowers^ 
and  dispensed  by  servants  at  the  call  of  the 
guests.  Or  this  may  all  be  inexpensively  and 
effectively  served  from  the  shade  of  the 
veranda. 

Punctually  on  the  hour  the  hostess  should 
order  the  musical  programme  begun.  She 
should  be  ready  on  the  lawn  to  greet  each  ar- 
rival. She  may  enjoy  the  shade  of  either  a  hat 
or  her  parasol.  As  the  guests  arrive  they  are 
greeted  by  shaking  hands,  and  are  introduced 
to  strangers.  If  the  attendance  is  very  large, 
she  will  have  little  time  for  anything  but  greet- 
ings and  adieus.  Then  she  must  rely  upon  the 
help  of  her  friends.  If  the  party  is  a  small 
one,  she  will  be  able  to  mingle  with  her  guests 
and  not  run  the  risk  of  failing  to  see  a  new 
arrival. 

The  guests,  on  their  arrival,  enter  the  house, 
where  rooms  on  the  ground  floor  are  set  aside 
for  their  convenience.  Wraps,  veils,  and  coats 
are  there  laid  aside  before  going  out  to  greet 
the  hostess  on  the  lawn.  After  this  guests 
largely  entertain  themselves.  The  gentlemen 
bring  refreshment  to  the  ladies.  It  is  quite 
proper  to  remain  during  the  entire  afternoon, 
but  no  call  should  be  shorter  than  half  an  hour, 
during-  which  time  the  guest  should  be  as  prom- 


208  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

inent  as  good  taste  allows.  This  out  of  defer- 
ence to  the  hostess.  If  one  is  obliged  to  make 
only  a  short  stay,  it  is  well  not  to  take  formal 
leave  of  the  hostess,  but  to  slip  away  as  quietly 
as  possible.  When  the  party  is  very  large  it 
is  customary  for  the  guests  to  leave  cards, 
either  upon  entering  or  lea^ing  the  house. 

There  is  absolutely  nothing  to  be  prescribed 
in  the  way  of  dress  for  either  ladies  or  gentle- 
men at  a  garden  party.  Ladies  may  indulge 
their  tastes  in  the  lightest  dresses  for  after- 
noon wear  in  any  and  every  direction.  Gentle- 
men may  wear  frock  coat  with  silk  hat,  or  a 
yachting  or  flannel  or  serge  suit  with  straw 
hat.  Gentlemen  do  not  wear  gloves  on  such 
occasions.  While  in  England,  and  in  the  ultra- 
fashionable  sets  in  America,  gentlemen  dress 
de  rigueitr,  the  greater  inclination  is  towards 
an  informal  dress. 


VISITING  AND  HOUSE  PABTIES 

THE  INVITATION 

In  asking  guests  to  enjoy  the  hospitality  of 
one's  roof,  the  hostess  should  state  expressly 
for  how  long  a  period  the  wished-for  friend  is 
expected  to  stay.  The  best  way  to  accomplish 
this  is  to  mention  the  exact  dates  for  the  guest's 
arrival  and  departure. 

Vague  and  indefinite  terms,  such  as  Can  you 
not  stay  with  us  over  Christmas?  or,  Won't 
you  join  us  for  the  Fairfield  Hunt  next  Thurs- 
day? are  likely,  unless  hostess  and  guest  are 
intimate  friends,  rather  to  puzzle  and  confuse 
the  receiver  of  the  invitation  than  to  convey  a 
compliment  to  him.  An  exception  to  this  ex- 
actitude may,  however,  be  allowed  in  the  case 
of  invitations  from  the  owners  of  very  large 
establishments.  Here  the  guest  is,  of  course, 
aware  that  it  is  no  inconvenience  to  his  hostess 
if,  within  reasonable  limits,  he  tacitly  fixes  the 
dates  of  his  coming  and  going  to  suit  himself. 
Nor  is  it  amiss  in  the  case  of  old  acquaintances 
to  suggest  two  or  three  dates  for  a  visit,  or 
even  for  the  guest  to  fix  the  time  for  his  coming 
309 


210  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

himself.  Ordinarily,  though,  it  is  best  for  the 
hostess  to  state  not  only  the  day  and  hour  when 
she  is  most  prepared  to  welcome  the  coming 
guest,  but  also  for  her  to  specify  the  train  or 
boat  on  which  the  visitor  should  come. 

Nothing  shows  much  better  the  difference  be- 
tween a  tactful  hostess  and  the  reverse  than  the 
wording  of  her  invitation.  The  woman  is 
poorly  equipped  who  pens  the  same  letter  to 
each  friend,  and  does  not  rather  drop  some  spe- 
cial lines  implying  a  knowledge  of  the  tastes 
and  wishes  of  each  visitant.  A  hint  in  an  in- 
vitation as  to  the  gayeties  to  be  exi:)ected,  with 
a  word  or  two  about  other  congenial  friends 
looked  for,  is  always  appropriate.  The  follow- 
ing imaginary  letters  may  serve  as  models : 


Mayfield, 
July  3, 19—. 
My  Dear  Mk.  Maitlaxd  : 

We  are  having  Efjte  Nelson  and  a  friend  of 
hers  and  George  and  Houston  Rutland  here  for 
a  tveek.  I  should  be  glad  if  you  could  stop 
over  with  tts  from  Saturday  until  Monday. 
Effie's  friend.  Miss  Morris,  is  quite  a  crack 
tennis  player,  so  I  know  you  two  tiill  be  con- 
genial. 

Reynolds  will  meet  you  with  the  trap  at  the 


VISITING  AND  HOUSE  PARTIES 2U 

three-o'clock  train;  I  think  you  icill  find  ijou 
leave  the  Grand  Central  at  3.40. 

Trusting  me  may  see  you,  I  am,  as  always. 
Very  cordially  yours, 

Kathkyn  M.  Baikd. 

Or, 

Williamsport, 
July  11,  19—. 
My  Dear  Miss  Irving  : 

We  are  expecting  a  few  congenial  souls  here 
next  week,  and  I  hope  you  can  arrange  to  come 
on  the  fifteenth  and  stay  till  the  twenty-second. 
Florence  Broivn  and  her  brother,  the  Webstcrs, 
and  one  or  two  others  have  promised,  so  only 
your  presence  is  needed  to  complete  our  party 
and  our  pleasure.  If  you  can  come,  I  woxdd 
suggest  the  three-o'clock  train  from  Broad 
Street  Station.  That  ivill  bring  you  straight 
through  to  Elmsford,  where  I  will  meet  you. 

We  have  our  boat  in  commission,  and  several 
dances  on  hand,  so  that  yachting  clothes  and 
evening  gowns  toill  come  in  handily. 

Trusting  that  tve  may  not  be  disappointed  in 
expecting  you,  I  am,  my  dear  Miss  Irving, 
Very  sincerely  yours, 

Maegaeet  p.  Classon. 


Or, 


212  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

Normandie, 
May  20,  19 — . 
Deak  Mks,  Rivington  : 

We  should  he  ever  so  glad  if  you  and  Mr. 
Rivington  could  spend  a  few  days  ivith  us  he- 
fore  leaving  for  the  other  side.  We  have  the 
dearest  little  place  here,  which  I'm  sure  you'll 
lihe  as  much  as  I  do.  Everything  is  in  green 
now  and  the  rides  hereabouts  are  beautiful. 
The  Anaronda  Golf  Club  is  barely  a  mile  away, 
and  my  husband  will  give  Mr.  Rivington  a 
chance  to  try  conclusions  on  our  country  links. 
Do  think  this  over,  and,  if  you  can,  give  us 
from  Friday  evening  till  Monday  of  next  week. 
Ever  cordially  yours, 

Norma  Cuetin  Nobbison. 

answering  invitations  to  house  parties 

Should  a  hostess  not  attend  to  the  little  mat- 
ters of  naming  exact  times  spoken  of  above,  the 
person  invited  is  at  liberty  to  specify  these  for 
himself  in  the  event  of  his  accepting  the  invita- 
tion, leaving  it  open  to  his  hostess,  however,  to 
modify  his  dates,  should  they  not  altogether 
suit  her.  When  the  person  invited  is  not  an 
intimate  friend  of  the  hostess,  or  when  the  in- 
vitation is  to  a  house  party  of  a  more  or  less 
formal  sort,  an  answer  should  be  given 
promptly.    The  following  are  proper  forms  of 


VISITING  AND  HOUSE  PARTIES  2J3 


acceptance  to  the  invitations  in  the  last  two 
letters  given  above: 

19 —  Walnut  St., 
Philadelphia. 
My  Dear  Mks.  Classon  : 

I  am  delighted  to  say  that  nothing  stands  in 
the  road  of  my  accepting  your  invitation  to 
Williamsport.  I  haven't  seen  Florence  for 
over  a  year,  and  shall  he  ever  so  glad  to  have 
a  chat  ivith  her  once  again. 

I  shall  follow  your  thoughtful  advice  about 
the  trains.     With  hind  regards,  I  am, 
Very  sincerely  yours, 

Ethel  Eandall  Irving. 
July  13,  19—. 

Or, 

2 —  Madison  Avenue, 
New  Yorlc. 
My  Dear  Mrs.  Norrison: 

Mr.  Rivington  and  I  ivill  he  charmed  to  ac- 
cept your  hind  invitation  for  next  Friday.  I 
have  heard  a  good  deal  of  "  Normandie,"  and 
am  dying  to  look  it  over.  Mr.  Rivington  was 
mahing  a  careful  examination  of  his  golf  things 
only  an  hour  ago,  and  is,  I  hnoiv,  delighted  to 


2J4  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

get  a  chance  to  try  conclusions  with  a  cracl: 
player  like  your  husband. 

With  kind  regards,  I  am  alivays, 
Sincerely  yours, 

Ella  M.  Kivington. 
May  22,  19—. 

FORMAL  HOUSE  PARTIES 

Strictly  speaking,  a  house  party  consists  of 
from  four  to  twenty  guests  gathered  in  a  coun- 
try seat,  for  any  length  of  time  from  three  days 
to  a  fortnight.  The  limits  of  the  visit  should 
be  defined  exactly  in  the  invitations.  When 
the  party  is  assembled,  the  time  is  devoted  to 
the  enjoyment  of  a  round  of  the  best-planned 
and  most  varied  entertainments  that  the  hostess 
can  provide.  According  to  the  English  fashion, 
when  a  house  party  is  given,  the  mistress  of  a 
commodious  coimtry  place  invites  by  letter 
those  friends  whom  from  time  to  time  during 
the  holidays  she  wishes  to  gather  under  her 
roof.  Models  for  such  notes  have  been  given 
above.  In  country  houses,  where  a  party  of  a 
dozen  or  more  guests  leaves  only  to  make  room 
foi'  another  party,  convenience  dictates  that  the 
hostess  should  keep  an  exact  record  of  every 
invitation  sent  out,  its  answer,  and  the  dates 
for  which  each  guest  is  invited.  Failure  to 
keep  memoranda  of  this  sort   is  very  apt  to 


VISITING  AND  HOUSE  PARTIES  215 

lead  to  erabarrassmg  and  impleasant  confusion. 
These  English  methods  of  gathei'ing  house  par- 
ties have  commended  themselves  to  the  best 
entertainers  on  this  side  by  their  pleasant  out- 
come and  orderly  arrangement. 

ENTERTAINING  VISITORS 

The  regulations  given  in  the  preceding  sec- 
tion apply,  it  should  be  carefully  remembered, 
only  to  those  hostesses  who  own  large  and  lux- 
urious country  seats,  and  who  aim  to  give 
brilliant  house  parties.  To  the  owner  of  the 
smaller  country  cottage,  who  may  ask  a  few 
friends  to  stop  over  from  Saturday  to  Monday, 
the  following  recommendations  are  addi'essed: 

First  and  foremost,  plan  carefully  the  enter- 
tainment of  your  visitors.  A  hostess  knowing 
the  resources  at  her  command  and  the  tastes  of 
her  expected  guests  should  turn  her  mind 
towards  providing  suitable  amusements. 
Horses,  golfing,  tennis,  sailing,  boating,  danc- 
ing are  obvious  diversions  to  suggest,  but  some- 
times a  spell  of  bad  weather  or  other  cause  may 
prevent  the  guests  from  indulging  in  these 
amusements.  At  this  juncture  it  is  that  the 
tact  and  hospitality  of  the  hostess  should  most 
come  into  play. 

Generally  speaking,  it  is  well  to  get  up  no 
special  enlertainments  for  the  morning.    If  the 


216  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

party  be  at  all  large,  breakfast  will  probably 
continue  till  nigh  unto  noon.  Many  women 
prefer  to  keep  their  rooms  till  luncheon,  writing 
letters  and  so  on;  others,  again,  like  to  sit  in  a 
quiet  spot  on  the  veranda,  reading  a  novel, 
chatting,  or  doing  some  fancy-work.  Some- 
times, however,  it  happens  that  the  morning  is 
chosen  for  some  expedition,  and  on  such  a  day 
it  is  the  afternoon  on  which  the  hostess  may 
leave  the  guests  pretty  much  to  themselves. 

A  dinner,  followed  by  a  dance,  a  card  party, 
private  theatricals,  a  fancy-dress  ball,  a  casino 
dance,  a  picnic,  or  a  moonlight  drive  are  some 
of  the  expedients  for  filling  the  evenings,  which, 
even  in  a  modest  house  party,  must  not  be  left 
entirely  empty  for  regrets  and  yawning  and 
boredom  to  creep  in. 

Still  further  can  the  hostess  confer  benefits 
on  her  guests,  by  refraining  from  forcing  any 
of  them  into  any  plans  or  expedition  to  which 
they  do  not  show  signs  of  taking  a  fancy.  When 
her  opinions  are  opposed  to  those  of  a  visitor, 
she  should  tactfully  refrain  from  raising  a  dis- 
cussion on  the  matters  on  which  they  disagree; 
so,  too,  she  should  cleverly  turn  the  conversa- 
tion when  any  of  her  guests  fall  into  too  heated 
discussions.  Many  good-natured  hostesses 
have  a  dread  of  leaving  their  visitors  at  any 
time  to  themselves,  lest  they  should  become 


VISITING  AND  HOUSE  PARTIES  2J7 


borecl.  But  really,  a  guest  should  be  allowed 
somewhat  the  same  liberty  with  his  time  as  he 
would  take  in  his  own  house.  To  invite  a 
do?en  persons  to  one's  home  and  leave  them  en- 
tirely to  their  own  devices  is  indeed  brutal ;  but 
the  contrary  error  of  over-entertaining  should 
be  likewise  avoided.  Many  a  matron  dislikes 
to  have  her  napping  hour  broken  into  to  see 
a  tennis  tournament,  and  to  wrest  a  contented 
man  from  his  book  and  cigar  for  fear  lest  time 
be  dull  to  him,  or  to  break  in  on  an  agreeable 
tete-a-tete,  is  not  less  reprehensible. 

THE   GUEST-CHAMBER 

The  careful  hostess  will  devote  no  less  time 
to  her  guests'  physical  welfare  than  to  their 
diversions.  Hospitality  is  not  at  its  best  when 
it  asks  a  guest  to  endure  discomforts  which  he 
would  not  think  of  encountering  in  his  own 
home.  Thus,  to  request  two  fastidious  persons 
to  share  the  same  bed,  or  to  crowd  in  a  guest 
with  a  child  to  make  room  for  others,  is  not  the 
proper  thing  for  a  thoughtful  hostess  to  do  or 
allow. 

Most  modern  country  houses  have  a  very 
large  number  of  guest-rooms,  for  it  is  really 
as  bad  form  to  ask  two  women  who  barely  know 
each  other  to  occupy  the  same  chamber  as  it 
would  be  to  give  them  but  one  plate  at  table. 


2J8  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

A  well-appointed  country  seat  has  small  rooms 
for  the  single  guests ;  and  where  a  mother  and 
daughter,  or  a  husband  and  wife,  are  asked  to 
share  one  chamber,  two  single  beds  are  invari- 
ably provided.  Ample  closet  room  should  be 
placed  at  the  disposal  of  each  guest;  a  bath  is 
frequently  attached  to  each  sleeping-room,  but 
it  is  not  incorrect  to  ask  the  occupants  of  two 
rooms  to  share  one  bathroom. 

In  a  house  possessing  but  two  guest  cham- 
bei's,  one  should  be  made  a  single,  the  other  a 
double  sleeping-room;  and  in  the  latter  there 
should  be  two  beds.  Rooms  near  the  bath,  and 
distant  from  the  nursery  and  working  portions 
of  the  house,  should  always  be  preferred  as 
guest-chambers.  No  one  is  grateful  for  a  rude 
awakening  by  the  cries  of  early  aroused  chil- 
dren, the  noise  of  servants,  or  the  clatter  of 
coal. 

A  guest-chamber  should  be  always  a  model 
of  neatness,  cheerfulness,  and  comfort.  A 
fresh,  brightly-flowered  paper,  Japanese  mat- 
ting and  a  few  rugs,  white  musliu  curtains, 
chintz-upholstered  furniture,  and  an  inviting 
bed  are  the  most  important  fittings  in  such  an 
apartment.  Since  no  two  guests  have  the  same 
tastes,  these  should  be  carefully  discriminated. 
One  visitor  will  like  the  sun  streaming  in  at 
every  window;  another  will  want  the  morning 


VISITING  AND  HOUSE  PARTIES  219 


light  always  excluded.  If  the  hostess  finds  the 
outside  or  inside  shutters  of  her  guest-room  do 
not  work  easily,  she  will  hang  dark  green  or 
blue  Holland  shades  at  every  window,  which 
can  be  rolled  up  in  daytime  and  then  drawn  at 
night.  In  the  closet  always  place  an  extra 
blanket;  a  table,  with  lamp  and  matches,  should 
be  by  the  bedside,  unless  an  electric  switch  is 
in  reach;  the  bells  should  be  in  good  order; 
pens,  ink,  stationery,  and  a  calendar  should  be 
about,  and  a  schedule  in  sight  of  the  postal  de- 
liveries and  collections.  A  neat  little  "  house- 
wife ' '  holding  needles,  thread,  scissors,  and  the 
like  may  be  placed  in  the  dressing-table 
drawer ;  the  table  itself  should  be  placed  where 
the  light  will  fall  on  it ;  and,  if  the  guest  be  a 
man,  care  should  be  taken  to  supply  a  shaving 
stand  in  a  properly  illuminated  portion  of  the 
room.  That  new  soap  should  be  on  the  stand, 
the  drawers  immaculately  clean,  and  fresh 
towels  on  the  rack  hardly  requires  mention.  In 
England  these  matters  are  all  looked  after  by  a 
housekeeper;  but  here,  where  this  custom  has 
not  been  perfected,  it  is  better  for  the  hostess 
herself  to  attend  to  these  matters  and  not  trust 
to  the  thoughtfulness  of  a  maid. 


220  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

WELCOMING  VISITORS 

If  tlie  guest  is  an  unmarried  woman,  the  host 
or  hostess  should  be  at  the  dock  or  railroad 
station  to  meet  and  greet  her,  especially  if  it  be 
her  first  visit.  Bachelors  and  married  couples 
are  supposed  to  be  better  able  to  take  care  of 
themselves,  and  for  them  it  is  sufficient  to  send  a 
quick-witted  man-servant  to  attend  their  wants. 

The  hostess,  in  either  case,  should  always  pro- 
vide proper  transportation  from  the  station  to 
the  house,  not  only  for  the  visitor,  but  for  his 
baggage.  She  should  meet  the  guest  imme- 
diately on  arrival,  preferably  at  the  door.  In 
a  house  where  hospitality  has  become  a  fine 
art,  the  hostess  will  accompany  her  friend  to  the 
guest-chamber,  while  a  maid  may  bring  a  tempt- 
ing biscuit  and  a  glass  of  wine ;  a  bath  may  then 
be  drawn  for  the  guest,  to  rid  herself  of  the 
dust  of  the  journey.  The  maid  should  mean- 
while open  the  bags  and  boxes,  lay  the  contents 
on  the  dressing-table,  and  in  drawers  and 
closets,  and  carry  off  the  travel-stained  apparel 
to  be  cleaned. 

Should  the  new  arrival  be  a  bachelor,  the 
hostess  should  be  no  less  prompt  in  greeting 
him,  and,  if  no  man  in  the  family  is  at  home 
to  conduct  him  to  his  room,  a  maid-  or  man-ser- 
vant can  attend  to  this  office. 


VISITING  AND  HOUSE  PARTIES  221 


THE  hostess'  servants 

In  very  fashionable  society  a  hostess  may  ex- 
pect that  her  guests  should  arrive  with  maids 
and  valets,  and  for  such  attendants  she  is 
obliged  to  provide,  but  this  is  hardly  the  gen- 
eral custom  in  America,  where  only  the  very 
rich  bring  their  attendants  with  them. 

If  the  maid  be  not  sufficiently  well  drilled  to 
look  after  the  unpacking  of  the  trunks,  she  may 
still  be  instructed  to  unlock,  unstrap,  and  open 
the  boxes,  and  take  out  the  heavy  trays.  Should 
the  guest-room  be  small,  all  trunks  and  bags 
should  be  removed  as  soon  as  emptied. 

Each  morning  the  maid  will  knock  at  the 
guest's  door,  enquire  when  and  at  what  heat  the 
bath  shoi;ld  be  drawn,  and  set  the  fire  going 
if  it  be  chill;  to  the  masculine  visitor  she  will 
bring  his  cleaned  and  polished  boots  and  hot 
shaving  water,  if  his  room  have  not  a  stationary 
washstand.  When,  in  the  afternoon,  the  guests 
retire  to  dress  for  dinner,  a  maid  should  tap  at 
the  women's  doors,  and  ask  if  any  assistance  be 
needed;  she  should  then  aid  in  adjusting  the 
gowns,  bring  hot  water  when  required,  and, 
when  the  rooms  are  vacated,  turn  down  the  beds 
for  the  night,  replenish  the  stand  with  towels 
and  water,  and  carry  out  the  apparel  or  shoes 
showing  signs  of  dust,  to  be  cleaned  and  brought 


222  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


back  the  uext  morning.  A  jug  of  ice-water 
and  a  glass  should  be  later  placed  beside  the 
bed;  the  matchbox,  reading-lamp,  and  other  de- 
tails should  also  be  examined  to  see  if  they  are 
in  proper  order.  All  these  things  arc  essen- 
tials, and  should  obtain  from  the  smallest  Sat- 
urday to  Monday  gathering  to  the  luxurious 
large  party. 

Should  illness  overtake  a  guest,  the  hostess 
should  doiable  her  attentions,  and  give  \ip  as 
much  as  possible  of  her  time  to  cheering  and 
nursing  the  unfortunate.  She  may  offer  to 
write  any  letters,  send  telegrams,  call  in  a 
physician,  and  provide  medicine,  special  diet, 
or  the  like  that  may  be  required.  Debts  con- 
tracted by  the  guest  under  these  circumstances 
should  not  be  paid  by  the  hostess;  should  a 
guest  be  so  small-minded  as  to  leave  matters  of 
this  sort  unsatisfied,  it  is  usually  best,  how- 
ever, to  quietly  settle  them  and  then  drop  the 
ungracious  guest  from  one's  invitation  list. 

TAKING   LEAVE 

Eegret  at  parting  may  be  expressed  to  a 
guest  in  some  such  form  as,  "  It  has  been 
charming  to  have  had  you  with  us.  Miss 
Black";  or,  "Your  visit  has  given  us  the 
greatest  pleasure,  Mrs.  Brown;  we  shall  miss 
you  much,  and  hope  you  may  be  persuaded  to 


VISITING  AND  HOUSE  PARTIES  223 


come  again";  or,  "  Good-bye,  Mr.  Jones.     I 
have  enjoyed  seeing  you  ever  so  much." 

It  should  be  the  endeavor  of  a  hostess  to  save 
a  visitor,  especially  a  woman,  from  the  discom- 
fort of  leaving  at  a  too  early  hour.    If  an  early 
train  or  boat  must  be  taken,  the  hostess  should 
be  up  betimes,  and  see  that  a  pleasant  break- 
fast is  served;  she  should  then  take  leave  of 
her  friend  at  the  door,  in  case  she  does  not  bear 
her  company  to  the  station.    A  visitor  is  al- 
ways conducted  to  the  train  or  boat  at  the  host- 
ess'   expense.    When    the    guest    is    elderly, 
whether  man  or  woman,  the  host  and  hostess 
should  both,  if  possible,  take  part  in  the  leave- 
takings.     The  tickets  may  be  procured  before- 
hand for  a  young  unmarried  woman,  her  lug- 
gage checked,  and  she  herself  handed  safely 
aboard  the  train.    A  bachelor  who  decides  to 
leave  in  the  morning  may  be  bid  farewell  the 
preceding    evening,    a    comfortable    breakfast 
having  been  ordered  for  him  by  his  hostess; 
her  son  or  husband  may  then  give  him  a  final 
farewell  in  the  morning.    If  the  servants  be 
well-trained,  the  services  of  one  should  be  of- 
fered a  g-uest  in  packing  the  baggage  or  in  lock- 
ing up  the  boxes  when  packed. 


tii  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

DKESS   WHILE  VISITING 

For  a  few  days'  stay  the  problem  of  dress 
hardly  arises,  as  a  rule,  but  for  longer  periods 
it  requires  careful  consideration  by  the  intended 
guest. 

For  a  week's  stay  in  summer,  at  a  gay  coun- 
try seat,  a  young  woman  needs  at  least  three 
hats — a  walking  hat,  one  for  golfing  or  boating, 
and  a  third  of  more  delicate  build,  for  lawn 
parties,  teas,  etc.  A  golf  dress,  white  pique 
skirts,  pretty  shirtwaists,  and  Oxford  ties  will 
equip  her  for  the  morning.  For  the  afternoon 
she  may  have  a  pretty,  light-toned  voile  or 
foulard  and  a  high-necked  muslin  or  two.  A 
decollete  gown  of  white  organdie  or  pale,  tinted 
silk  will  answer  well  for  the  evening.  A  little 
wardrobe  of  this  sort  may  be  packed  in  a 
steamer  trunk.  It  is  only  when  on  a  visit  to 
very  splendid  houses,  where  a  large  round  of 
gay  entertainments  is  expected,  that  a  bigger 
trunk  need  be  taken.  An  older  woman  will 
make  several  changes  in  this  list,  but  she  will 
need  no  more  clothes. 

To  the  ordinary  house  party,  a  man  under 
sixty  carries  a  sack  suit  for  the  morning,  col- 
ored shirts,  a  complete  set  of  evening  clothes, 
duck  trousers,  a  straw  hat  and  a  cap  for  out- 
ings, and  several  Oxfords. 


VISITING  AND  HOUSE  PARTIES 225 

THE   guest's  duties 

To  make  a  pleasant  visitor,  each  guest  should 
essay  to  conform  himself  to  the  customs  of  the 
household.  When  a  choice  of  entertainments 
is  offered,  he  should  be  willing  to  fall  in  with 
that  one  which  he  sees  his  hostess  prefers.  The 
dullest  outing  or  the  most  unsuccessful  dance 
should  be  entered  into  with  zest. 

It  is  clearly  a  guest's  duty  to  be  courteous  to 
the  other  visitors,  to  forbear  from  excited  argu- 
ment, and  to  refrain  from  any  liberties.  The 
host's  carriage  should  not  be  used  without  his 
invitation,  his  books  should  not  be  scattered 
about  the  house,  nor  the  chairs  shifted  from 
one  room  to  another.  One's  room  should  be 
kept  in  order  and  neat-appearing.  To  the 
habits  of  the  household  concerning  the  times 
for  meals  the  visitor  should  cheerfully  defer. 
If  early  breakfasts  are  customary,  it  is  bad  taste 
to  keep  one's  hostess  waiting  for  the  comple- 
tion of  a  slow  toilet. 


Nowadays  it  is  a  fixed  custom  to  tip  the  ser- 
vants on  departing  from  a  private  house,  unless 
the  mistress  distinctly  requests  that  this  be  not 
done.  Usually,  the  guest  is  left  to  do  as  he 
chooses  about  the  matter.    To  tip  over-lavishly 


226  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

is  not  commendable,  and  yet  many  err  iu  this 
direction  from  lack  of  clear  knowledge  at  where 
to  draw  the  line. 

A  single  woman  should  tip  the  maid  who 
keeps  her  room  in  order  one  dollar,  if  the  visit 
has  been  for  a  week  and  no  special  favors  have 
been  asked.  If,  however,  the  maid  has  brushed 
the  gowns,  prepared  the  bath,  and  assisted  in 
the  evening  toilet,  then  a  dollar  and  a  half  is 
expected.  Aside  from  the  maids  a  woman  has 
but  few  demands  on  her  purse,  except  possibly 
from  the  coachman,  and  for  him  fifty  cents  or 
a  dollar  is  sufficient. 

A  bachelor  should  give  at  least  a  dollar  to 
the  maid  who  keeps  his  room  in  order,  not  less 
than  fifty  cents  to  the  boy  who  polishes  his 
boots,  and  a  dollar  to  the  coachman  if  the  latter 
has  performed  any  special  services.  If  a  valet 
has  brushed,  pressed,  and  laid  out  clothes, 
drawn  baths,  and  so  on  for  the  ^^sito^,  at  least 
a  dollar  and  a  half  must  be  given;  and  if  the 
guest  has  used  a  riding  horse,  and  been  fre- 
quently driven  about  the  country,  the  coaclmian 
will  expect  a  dollar  and  a  half  and  the  stable- 
boy  a  half-dollar. 

Married  couples  usually  di\'ide  the  tipping. 
The  wife  fees  the  maids,  the  husband  the  men- 
servants.  A  dollar  and  a  half  should  be  given 
the  maid,  and  two  dollars  if  she  has  done  sjie- 


VISITING  AND  HOUSE  PARTIES 227 

cial  work.  The  butler  would  get  two  dollars,  if 
he  acted  as  valet,  and  sometimes  as  high  as  five 
when  he  has  attended  to  special  matters.  As  a 
rule,  a  married  man  is  supposed  to  send  the 
cook  a  dollar,  and  many  bachelors  do  the  same. 
The  coachman  always  expects  the  fee  of  a 
dollar.  Fifty  cents  to  the  laundress  is  also 
customary  if  her  time  has  been  used  for  any- 
thing unusual. 

When  a  man  or  woman  is  a  frequent  guest  at 
a  house,  a  tip  at  every  stay  is  not  necessary,  but 
all  the  servants  should  be  remembered  once  or 
twice  a  season. 

The  above  rules  are  not  laid  down  for  those 
men  who  persist  in  tipping  from  five  dollars  up 
for  a  stay  of  a  day.  Such  are  a  law  unto  them- 
selves, and  establish  no  precedent  for  those  with 
smaller  incomes. 

TAKING  LEAVE 

To  express  appreciation  of  the  hospitality 
which  he  has  enjoyed,  a  guest,  in  taking  leave, 
may  say,  "  You  can  hardly  realize  how  much 
I  liave  enjoyed  my  visit,  Mrs.  Blank  ";  or,  "  I 
am  deeply  indebted  to  you,  Mrs.  Blank,  for  a 
delightful  fortnight";  or,  "This  has  been  a 
most  agreeable  experience ;  I  can  scarcely  real- 
ize that  it  is  over  and  that  I  must  say  good- 
bye." 


228  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

In  taking  leave,  it  is  polite  to  bid  adieu  to 
each  member  of  the  family,  asking  to  have  mes- 
sages of  farewell  given  to  those  absent. 

Promptly  after  a  visit  a  short  note  should  be 
sent  to  the  hostess,  informing  her  of  the  guest's 
safe  arrival,  and  conveying  anew  the  pleasure 
her  entertainment  has  afforded.  For  stays  of 
a  day  or  two  a  letter  of  this  sort  is  unnecessary. 
The  following  are  proper  forms : 

Woodville, 
July  30, 19 — . 
My  Deab  Mrs.  Eichardson  : 

I  arrived  home  yesterday  evening  after  a 
quick  and  pleasant  journey.  I  am  still  full  of 
memories  of  my  delightfid  stay  at  the  manor. 
Please  give  the  baby  my  love  and  relieve  Mr. 
Richardson  about  my  baggage.  It  turned  up 
at  the  home  station  safely.  With  many  thanks 
to  him  and  best  regards  to  yourself,  believe  me, 
Ever  sincerely, 

Anna  Northbup  Jamison. 

Or, 

76  Norton  Place, 
September  6, 19 — . 
My  Dear  Mrs.  Elverson  : 

My  journey  homeivards  ivas  an  enjoyable  one 
and  spent  mostly  in  thinking  on  the  more  than 
pleasant  time  I  had  at  "  Briarnook," 


VISITING  AND  HOUSE  PARTIES  229 

I  have  ventured  to  send  you  a  copy  of  one  of 
Kipling's  to-day,  luhich  has  just  appeared  on 
the  bookstalls.  I  knoiv  from  your  fondness  for 
that  writer  that  you  will  enjoy  it. 

With  best  regards  to  Mr.  and  to  Miss  Elver- 
son,  believe  me, 

Faithfidly  yours, 

Ralph  N.  Preston. 

A  small  gift  to  one's  hostess  is  not  amiss, 
when  in  the  nature  simply  of  a  souvenir,  but 
nothing  savoi'ing  of  a  payment  should  ever  be 
sent.  A  book,  a  pretty  piece  of  embroidery,  a 
pack  of  cards  in  a  silver  case,  or  a  piece  of 
music  for  which  a  wish  has  been  expressed,  are 
all  allowable  as  gifts,  and  cannot  be  misunder- 
stood. However,  this  opportunity  for  gift- 
making  is  not  regarded  as  an  obligation,  and  is 
left  to  each  one  individually  to  take  advantage 
of,  or  not,  as  he  chooses. 


WEDDINGS 

No  other  incident  in  the  whole  length  of  the 
average  human  life  is  so  fraught  with  vast  po- 
tentialities for  good  or  evil,  for  exquisite  hap- 
piness or  unqualified  misery,  as  the  event  which 
makes  a  man  the  husband  of  a  woman  and  the 
woman  the  wife  of  a  man. 

The  moment  two  young  people  have  made  the 
mutual  confession  that  their  supreme  happiness 
is  wrapped  up  in  each  other,  they  are  within 
measurable  distance  of  the  great  crisis  of  their 
lives. 

ENGAGED  TO   BE   MARRIED 

Possibly  there  is  no  country  in  the  world 
where  young  people  enjoy  the  same  freedom  of 
action  and  liberty  of  conduct  as  in  America. 
Compared  with  the  mediaeval  customs  of  Spain, 
the  cautious — and,  to  American  minds,  the  sus- 
picious— methods  of  the  French,  American  girls 
enjoy  supreme  liberty.  Doubtless  this  is  due  to 
the  exalted  position  woman  holds  in  American 
social  life,  a  supremacy  which,  according  to  the 
French  writer,  Varigny,  dates  from  the  time 
when  the  New  England  colonies  first  conceded 

230 


WEDDINGS  23J 


the  right  of  a  woman  to  dispose  of  her  own 
hand  in  marriage.  The  cynic  may  say  that  in 
those  days  the  scarcity  of  women  was  re- 
sponsible for  this  gift  of  independence,  and  that 
because  of  her  very  scarcity  she  could  command 
her  own  price.  But  to  the  man  of  to  day  such 
an  argument  cannot  carry  much  weight,  seeing 
that  the  twentieth-century  woman  has  retained 
all  her  old  prerogatives,  not  to  speak  of  many 
more  that  she  has  wrung  from  the  evolution  of 
time,  and  which  the  early  colonists  would  un- 
doubtedly have  regarded  as  the  most  rabid  form 
of  anarchy.  However,  it  is  our  business  to 
speak  of  conditions  as  they  are,  and  as  some 
form  and  period  of  engagement  must  invariably 
precede  the  hastiest  of  marriages,  it  will  be 
well  to  discuss  the  etiquette  of  the  engagement 
at  some  little  length  before  going  on  to  the  gen- 
eral subject  of  weddings. 

Throughout  Continental  p]urope  it  would  be 
impossible  for  young  people  of  opposite  sexes 
to  see  each  other  as  freely  and  as  frequently  as 
in  our  own  country;  consequently,  the  general 
rule  in  these  countries  is  for  the  man  to  ask  the 
permission  of  the  parents  before  offering  his 
attentions  to  the  daughter.  In  America  a 
man's  permission  to  win  the  woman  he  loves  is, 
as  a  rule,  taken  for  granted.  In  England  the 
rule  varies,  according  to  the  social  status  of  the 


232  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

lovers.  It  is  a  point  of  etiquette  for  which  no 
definite  rule  can  be  laid  down;  for,  if  it  is  true 
that  "  Love  laughs  at  locksmiths,"  it  is  surely 
true  that  the  winged  god  has  little  respect  for 
this  particular  social  convention.  It  is  certain, 
however,  that  the  intimacy  between  parents 
and  children  which  distinguishes  American 
family  life  is  the  very  best  safeguard  possible 
for  the  average  American  girl,  for  in  our  open 
way  of  living  and  entertaining  it  is  scarcely 
possible  for  a  daughter  to  receive  the  attentions 
of  a  man  without  the  fact  being  immediately 
known  to  the  parents.  In  the  case  of  deception 
no  rule  or  system  holds  good;  for  where  such  a 
course  is  resorted  to,  parents  have  only  the 
protection  of  their  own  suspicions  and  the  girl's 
sense  of  loyalty  to  their  authority.  If  the 
young  man  is  wise,  he  will  make  it  a  point  to 
interview  the  loved  one 's  parents  the  moment 
he  has  the  girl's  permission,  making  a  full  and 
free  statement  of  his  present  condition,  stand- 
ing in  society,  business  prospects,  and  re- 
sources. This  is  not  only  a  wise  course,  but 
it  is  the  only  one  an  honorable  man  can  pursue. 
Should  his  plea  be  refused,  patience  and  honor- 
able conduct  usually  overcome  the  most  obsti- 
nate parent. 

Social  conventions  require  that  the  announce- 
ment of  an  engagement  shall  come  from  the 


WEDDINGS 


2^ 


young  woman.     This   announcement   may  be 
published  publicly,  sent  by  note  to  those  rela- 
tives and  friends  who  should  receive  early  in- 
formation of  the  event,  or  announced  verbally. 
A  good  way,  and  the  one  most  frequently  em- 
ployed, is  for  the  young  lady  to  write  to  her 
intimate  friends,  informing  them  that  her  en- 
gagement will  be  announced  on  a  certain  near 
day;  this  enables  them  to  call,  or  send  congrat- 
ulatory messages.     These  messages  may  very 
properly  be  accompanied  by  flowers.  Next  to  the 
impropriety  of  keeping  an  engagement  secret 
from  a  girl's  parents,  or,  for  that  matter,  the 
parents  on  either  side,  is  to  forget  or  omit  the 
formal  announcing  of  the  engagement.    In  this 
connection  it  will  be  well  to  point  out  that  it  is 
not  at  all  the  correct  thing  to  ask  near  relatives 
or  intimate  friends  of  persons,  whom  report 
asserts  to  be  engaged,  whether  such  reports  be 
true.    Equally  vulgar  would  it  be  for  any  one 
not  an  intimate  friend  or  relative  to  ask  any 
member  of  the  two  families  whether  they  are 
pleased  with  the  engagement.    The  afternoons 
the  young  lady  has  selected  to  be  at  home  are 
expected  to  be  used  by  the  majority  of  the  en- 
gaged young  people's  acquaintances  to  call  on 
her.     The  prospective  bridegroom's   relatives 
and  friends  should  also  take  this  opportunity 
of  making  her  acquaintance. 


234  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


REFRESHMENTS 

On  these  occasions  it  is  usual  to  offer  the 
callers  tea,  together  with  sandwiches  and  cakes, 
so  that,  altogether,  the  occasion  is  marked  by 
a  very  charming  cordiality.  The  family  of  the 
future  husband  should  especially  be  affection- 
ate and  cordial  in  their  reception  of  their  son's 
fiancee.  Of  late  there  has  sprung  up  a  fashion 
for  intimate  friends  to  send  to  a  girl,  upon  re- 
ceiving news  of  her  engagement,  presents  of 
teacups.  The  reason  for  this  is  somewhat 
vague,  but  as  it  is  a  tradition  common  to  all 
parts  of  the  world  that  the  teacup  is  the  main 
consolation  of  spinsterhood,  the  custom  may 
have  a  humorous  meaning. 

CONGRATULATIONS 

Only  the  man  is  congratulated;  to  the  woman 
one  wishes  every  degree  of  happiness.  In  the 
language  of  another  writer,  "  the  word  '  felici- 
tation,' in  its  French  sense,  best  covers  the 
ground."  A  relic  of  barbarism  survives  in  the 
distinction  thus  made  between  the  man  and  the 
woman.  The  man  is  congratulated  because  of 
his  success  in  the  pursuit  and  "  capture  "  of 
the  woman.  The  interval  between  the  betrothal 
and  the  marriage  ceremony  is  a  period  crowded 
with  joy  and  excitement.    Friends  hasten  to  ex- 


WEDDINGS 235 

tend  invitations  for  dinners,  theatre  parties, 
and  many  other  forms  of  festivity.  The  two 
families  in  particular  are  most  careful  to  ex- 
change hospitalities— the  young  man's  family 
at  all  times  taking  the  initiative. 

ACCEPTING   CONGRATULATIONS 

In  the  present  stage  of  development  of  human 
nature  it  is  to  be  expected  that  discussion  and 
criticism  will  be  very  much  to  the  fore.  ' '  Does 
she  seem  happy?  "  or,  "  Is  he  much  in  love?  " 
one  hears  eagerly  asked.  Or,  perhaps,  on  the 
other  hand,  the  friends  of  both  will  question 
the  wisdom  of  the  step  for  business  or  family 
reasons.  In  any  event,  to  all  people,  friend 
and  foe  alike,  some  degree  of  speculation  and 
comment  will  be  natural.  Much  annoyance 
and  sometimes  keen  suffering  may  be  saved  by 
bearing  these  facts  in  mind.  The  young  people 
must  remember  that  once  their  engagement  is 
public  property,  their  behavior  to  each  other, 
as  well  as  to  others,  will  be  subject  to  a  scrutiny 
never  before  experienced,  so  that  they  should 
at  all  times  be  on  their  guard.  Nothing  could 
be  in  worse  taste  than  to  see  a  girl  making  a 
public  exhibition  of  her  bliss,  or  to  hear  a  man, 
when  congratulated,  trying  to  hide  his  embar- 
rassment behind  a  foolish  facetiousness  that,  at 
best,    only    makes   him    ridiculous.     A   good. 


i^  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

honest  handclasp,  or  a  warm,  sincere  "  Thank 
you!  "  will  suffice  for  an  aclniowledginent. 

The  engaged  couple  will  be  seen  frequently 
together  in  public,  but  they  should  be  careful 
not  to  make  themselves  conspicuous.  It  is 
taken  for  granted  that  they  do  not  care  for 
gayety  or  enjojTuent  apart  from  each  other, 
and  also  that  they  love  each  other  devotedly, 
consequently  they  will  not  be  misunderstood  if 
their  public  behavior  should  resemble  that  of 
any  other  average  man  and  woman  under  simi- 
lar circumstances. 

"  HAPPY  THE  WOOING  THAt's  NOT  LONG  A-DOING  " 

This  is  an  old  saw  frequently  quoted  by  those 
who  advocate  short  engagements;  but  the  gen- 
eral question,  as  to  whether  the  engagement 
should  be  long  or  short,  is  one  which  involves 
much  difference  of  opinion.  As  a  matter  of 
fact,  the  question  is  too  serious  for  Fashion  to 
have  any  say  in  the  matter.  Ordinarily  the 
period  of  engagement  is  limited  by  financial 
considerations;  a  period  of  test  or  probation; 
or  to  gain  sufficient  time  for  the  preparation 
of  the  home.  A  moderate  period  of  time  is  the 
better  course,  but  where  a  long  engagement  is 
necessary  (if  the  young  people  are  not  suffi- 
ciently sure  of  each  other,  or  if  financial  or 
other  difficulties  stand  in  the  way)  it  would  be 


WEDDINGS  237 


foolish  to  marry  before  all  obstructions  have 
been  overcome.  According  to  statistics,  the 
modern  trend,  in  circles  where  financial  consid- 
erations do  not  obtain,  is  to  a  comparatively 
short  engagement,  while  the  opposite  is  the 
case  among  the  classes  not  so  well  endowed  with 
this  world's  goods.  If  a  long  engagement 
should  serve  to  discover  faults  in  the  character 
or  temperament  of  either  party  to  the  contract, 
the  time  has  not  been  wasted,  for  it  still  re- 
mains true  that  to  marry  in  haste  frequently 
means  to  repent  at  leisure.  If  spent  rightly, 
the  period  of  waiting  will  serve  to  develop  a 
keener  sense  of  responsibility  on  the  part  of 
the  man,  developing  his  best  qualities  because 
of  the  necessary  self-denial  in  working  and 
planning  for  the  new  home,  while  the  girl  has 
an  opportunity  to  take  a  practical  interest  in 
the  art  of  housekeeping  and  domestic  economy 
which,  in  the  vast  majority  of  cases,  has  not 
been  a  distinguishing  feature  of  the  earlier  part 
of  her  life.  No  matter  how  lofty  a  station  she 
may  occupy,  or  how  big  her  establishment,  a 
knowledge  of  the  duties  and  responsibilities  of 
the  mistress  of  a  household  will  be  an  absolute 
necessity  to  any  woman  who  has  the  desire  to 
be  the  wife  of  her  husband  and  the  mistress  of 
a  home,  rather  than  the  head  of  an  establish- 
ment.    It  is  well  to  remember,  however,  that 


238  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

the  question  of  long  or  short  engagements  has 
a  bearing  on  others  besides  the  young  people 
themselves.  The  man  in  particular  should  re- 
member that  the  unpopularity  of  the  son-in- 
law  with  his  wife's  family,  more  frequently 
than  not,  has  its  origin  in  the  long  engagement 
that  precedes  his  marriage,  and  when  it  is  re- 
membered how  easy  it  is  for  the  absorbed  lovers 
to  forget  the  girl's  parents  and  family,  there 
is  little  wonder  that  the  relations  between  son- 
in-law  and  parents-in-law  are  occasionally  not 
all  that  could  be  desired.  The  man  should  re- 
member that  until  his  fiancee  becomes  his  wife, 
the  rights  of  her  family  take  precedence  of  his 
own,  and  if  he  will  bear  this  fact  in  mind  and 
show  his  recognition  of  it  by  curtailing  in  a 
measure  the  length  and  frequency  of  his  visits, 
he  will  make  much  better  progress  in  the  esti- 
mation of  his  future  wife's  family. 

THE   ENGAGEMENT   RING 

The  ring  is  presented  as  soon  as  possible 
after  the  girl's  consent  is  won,  but  it  is  not  pub- 
licly worn  until  the  engagement  is  announced. 
The  style  and  value  of  the  ring  will,  of  course, 
largely  depend  upon  the  taste  and  means  of 
the  giver.  It  would  scarcely  be  right  to  say 
that  Fashion  dictates  any  particular  pattern, 
but  the  practice  of  presenting  a  solitaire  dia- 


WEDDINGS  23^ 


mond,  or  a  diamond  in  combination  witli  an- 
other gem,  has  become  the  custom,  and  conse- 
quently, in  that  regard  at  least,  the  fashion.  A 
charming  idea  is  the  placing  an  inscription 
within  the  circlet,  a  practice  which  adds  much  to 
the  sentimental  value  of  the  ring.  Nothing  could 
be  in  worse  taste  than  for  a  young  man  to  pre- 
sent his  fiancee  with  a  ring  the  value  of  which 
is  plainly  out  of  all  proportion  with  the  known 
condition  of  his  financial  standing.  It  does  not 
by  any  means  prove  the  depth  of  his  devotion 
any  more  than  if  it  had  been  but  one-tenth  the 
value.  It  does,  however,  betray  a  lack  of  bal- 
ance and  a  trace  of  vulgar  ostentation  which, 
in  the  minds  of  older  men  and  women  of  the 
world,  will  inspire  a  doubt  as  to  the  stability 
and  future  success  of  the  young  man.  In  a  way 
also  it  is  certainly  to  be  presumed  that  the 
woman  has  enough  influence  over  her  lover  to 
prevent  him  from  making  so  foolish  a  mistake. 

DEMEANOR 

At  quaint  Long  Meadow,  in  Massachusetts, 
there  is  still  preserved  a  "  courting  stick," 
through  which,  in  the  early  days  of  our  coun- 
try, young  persons  could  whisper  their  tender 
nonsense  to  each  other  unheeded  by  the  rest  of 
the  people  in  the  room.  These  courting  sticks 
were  hollow  tubes  about  eight  feet  long,  and 


240  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

were  considered  a  very  practical  necessity  in 
many  of  our  "  best  families."  Eight  feet 
would  certainly  be  considered  a  whole  continent 
in  these  twentieth-century  days,  but  the  illus- 
tration will  serve  to  show  the  reserve,  and,  in 
a  measure,  the  secrecy  which  society  then  de- 
manded of  engaged  people.  Practically  the 
whole  burden  of  responsibility  at  this  time 
rests  with 

THE    FIANCEE, 

for  whom  custom  has  decreed  strict  rules  of 
conduct.  As  with  all  the  other  social  conven- 
tions, there  is  considerably  more  liberty  at 
present  than  there  was  twenty-five  or  fifty 
years  ago,  but  even  now  it  is  not  according  to 
the  strictest  rules  of  conduct  for  a  young  lady 
to  attend  theatres,  parties,  or  concerts  alone 
with  her  fiance  or  to  be  seen  driving  with  him 
in  the  evening,  or  on  unfrequented  roads.  On 
the  other  hand,  she  is  permitted  to  indulge 
in  some  of  these  pleasures,  such  as  walking 
or  driving  occasionally,  the  only  stipulation 
being  that  it  should  be  in  public  and  in  an  un- 
ostentatious manner.  Fifty  years  ago  the 
bride-elect  was  practically  a  social  prisoner, 
allowed  out  only  after  nightfall,  but  although, 
as  already  stated,  public  opinion  is  no  longer 
so  radically  straightlaced,  well-bred  men  and 


WEDDINGS  24V 


women  will  still  be  careful  not  to  permit  them- 
selves to  go  to  the  opposite  extreme.- 

A  point  that  an  engaged  girl  should  always 
keep  in  mind  is,  that  it  is  not  wise  to  accept 
any  presents  from  her  lover  that  cannot  be  re- 
turned uninjured  should  the  engagement  be 
broken.  Of  course  this  does  not  apply  to  such 
trivialities  as  flowers  and  bonbons.  In  the 
period  between  the  betrothal  and  the  wedding- 
day  the  careful  bride-to-be  will  scrupulously 
adhere  to  the  conventions  regarding  chaperon- 
age.  At  this  point  it  will  not  be  amiss  to  say 
a  word  for  the  parents  of  the  girl.  In  certain 
respects  they  should  be  her  first  consideration, 
for  upon  them  will  fall  the  more  or  less  heavy 
expense  of  the  wedding,  not  to  speak  of  the  en- 
gagement period.  The  loving  daughter  will  be 
as  moderate  as  possible  in  her  demands  upon 
the  paternal  purse.  The  average  American 
girl  has  much  to  learn  from  the  careful,  provi- 
dent, but  altogether  charming  German  Friiu- 
lein. 

The  greatest  ambition  of  the  bride-to-be 
should  be  to  come  to  the  altar  looking  her  pret- 
tiest, a  result  which  will  be  impossible  if  she 
overtaxes  her  strength  in  preparing  her  trous- 
seau, indulging  in  wearing  shopping  expedi- 
tions, or  nerve-racking  visits  to  the  dressmaker 
and  milliner. 


242  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

The  selectiou  of  the  wedding  date  resta  with 
the  bride. 

WEDDING  PEELIMINARIES 

Once  the  wedding  day  has  been  named,  im- 
portant consultations  between  the  two  families 
will  take  place  to  settle  the  matter  of  invita- 
tions. Careful  lists  of  the  friends  and  acquaint- 
ances of  both  families  will  be  made  and  the  in- 
vitations ordered  from  the  engraver  at  least 
three  weeks  or  a  month  in  advance  of  the  time 
they  are  wanted  for  sending  out. 

All  the  expenses  of  the  wedding  are  assumed 
by  the  bride's  family,  including  cards  of  invita- 
tion, floral  decorations  at  house  or  church,  or 
both,  carriages  for  the  bridal  party  and  invited 
guests,  music,  and,  in  fact,  every  other  expense 
incidental  to  the  wedding,  except  the  payment 
of  the  clergyman's  fee,  which  is  the  bride- 
groom's privilege.  Very  frequently  he  also 
pays  the  organist  and  the  sexton,  but  this  is 
not  required  by  conventional  etiquette. 

In  the  matter  of  invitations,  a  very  charming 
practice,  and  one  becoming  increasingly  pop- 
ular, is  for  the  bride-elect,  with  a  number  of  her 
intimate  friends  gathered  together  for  the  pur- 
pose, to  direct  the  invitations  personally  instead 
of  leaving  the  task  to  tlie  engraver  or  other 
agent. 


VEDDINGS  243 


INVITATIONS 

Wedding  invitations  may  be  sent  out  at  any 
time,  from  within  four  weeks  to  fifteen  days  of 
the  date  set  for  the  marriage.  They  are  issued 
in  the  name  of  the  bride's  father  and  mother, 
and,  formerly,  the  cards  of  the  bride-  and 
groom-elect  were  enclosed,  but  this  is  a  custom 
now  rarely  followed. 

The  number  of  relations  and  friends  invited 
will  depend  entirely  upon  circumstances  that 
need  not  be  mentioned  here;  sufficient  to  say 
that  among  the  deciding  factors  will  be  the  room 
at  the  disposal  of  the  parents.    For  instance, 
where  the  wedding  or  wedding  reception  is  at 
the  house,  it  will  surely  be  impossible  to  invite 
all  one's  acquaintances,  and  while  this  is  to  be 
regretted,  yet  it  would  be  the  worst  of  bad  taste 
for  friends  to  take  offence  because  they  were 
not  invited;  naturally,  r^jlatives  and  intimate 
friends  must  receive  the  first  consideration.    If 
the  ceremony  is  to  be  held  in  church,  invita- 
tions may  be  sent  to  all  those  whose  names  are 
on  the  visiting  lists  of  the  families  of  the  brides 
and   bridegroom,   and   to    such   relatives    and 
friends    as    may    be    in    mourning,    travelling 
abroad,  or  prevented  from  attending  by  some 
other  important  reason.    It  is  a  good  point,  and 
one  generally  followed,  to  send  invitations  to 


244  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


the  business  associates  of  the  bridegroom  and 
the  bride 's  father,  and  also  to  offer  a  few  extra 
invitations  to  the  bridesmaids  and  ushers,  who 
will  thus  be  enabled  to  ask  any  of  their  friends 
or  relatives  who  may  wish  to  witness  the  cere- 
mony. 

Invitations  should  be  engraved  on  the  finest 
of  pure  white  or  cream-tinted  paper,  having  an 
unglazed,  smooth  surface.  Ordinarily,  the 
conventional  size  of  the  sheet  of  paper  used 
measures  7i/o  by  614  in  width,  which  measure- 
ment will  enable  it  to  be  folded  once  to  fit  its 
envelope.  Plain  script  still  retains  its  old-time 
ascendancy,  varied  only  by  an  occasional  pref- 
erence for  the  Old  English  type  or  the  heavy 
blackletter. 

Included  with  the  order  to  the  stationer  or 
engraver  for  invitations  is  one  for  the  en- 
velopes containing  the  engraved  sheets,  and 
larger  and  less  expensive  ones  for  the  outer 
covering.  As  with  ball  invitations,  the  first 
envelope  is  inside  and  inscribed  only  with  the 
name  of  the  guest  for  whom  it  is  meant,  while 
the  outer  envelope  of  course  carries  the  full  ad- 
dress of  its  intended  recipient.  It  is  bad  taste 
to  make  a  single  invitation  sen^e  for  an  entire 
family  by  addressing  it  to  "  Mr.  and  Mrs.  So- 
and-So  and  family."  An  invitation  should  be 
sent  to  each  individual,  although  custom  per- 


WEDDINGS 


24^ 


mits  the  slight  economy  of  addressing  one  to 
"  Mr.   and  Mrs.   So-and-So,"   another  to   the 
"Misses    So-and-So,"    and    a    third    to    the 
"  Messrs.  So-and-So."    If  there  is  to  be  a  re- 
ception after  the  church  wedding,  it  is   cus- 
tomary to  enclose  cards  for  the  reception  in 
the  same  envelope  with  those  for  the  church. 
Should  the  invitation  include  a  regular  wed- 
ding breakfast,  or,  in  fact,  only  refer  to  a  small 
house  wedding,  it  is  obligatory  for  the  recipi- 
ents to  answer  the  invitation.    Friends  and  ac- 
quaintances living  at  too  great  a  distance,  or 
who  for  any  other  reason  are  unable  to  attend 
the  wedding,  are  expected  to  enclose  their  cards 
to  the  bride's  father  and  mother,  timing  them 
so  that  they  will  arrive  on  the  wedding-day. 
At  the  same  time  it  would  be  improper  to  send 
answers  to  invitations  to  a  church  wedding  or 
a  large  wedding  reception  where  no  answer  has 
been  requested,  or  to  send  an  answer  to  an  in- 
vitation to  the  bride  or  bridegroom's  family 
when  one  does  not  happen  to  know  the  persons 
in  whose  name  the  invitation  was  sent. 

With  regard  to  the  form  of  the  invitation,  it 
is  almost  invariably  found  that  the  stationer 
has  a  sample  book  containing  copies  of  invita- 
tions in  current  use,  but  where  this  is  not  the 
case  the  following  examples  will  be  found  to 
cover  the  entire  subject. 


2M>  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  W.  Broun 

request  the  honour  of  your  presence 

at  the  marriage  of  their  daughter 

Alice 

to 

Mr.  Walter  Freere 

on  Tuesday  afternoon,  November  first, 

nt  four  o'clock, 

St.  Chri/sostom's  Church, 

Richmond,  Virginia. 

If  the  bride 's  family  prefer  to  word  their  in- 
vitations correctly,  rather  than  fashionably, 
they  will  substitute  the  word  and,  or  u-ith,  in- 
stead of  to.  Another  device  which  is  greatly 
to  be  commended,  not  only  because  it  gives  an 
additional  touch  of  elegance,  but  because  of  the 
greater  courtesy  which  it  conveys,  is  to  write 
the  name  of  the  person  invited  instead  of 
having  it  engraved.  Of  course  this  involves 
more  labor,  but  it  is  assuredlv  a  far  better  wav. 


WEDDINGS  2i7 

This  would  necessitate  the  following  arrange- 
ment: 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  W.  Brown 

request  the  honour  of 

presence  at  the  marriage  of  their  daughter 

Alice 

and 

Mr.  Walter  Freere 

on  Tuesday  afternoon,  November  first, 

at  four  o'clock, 

St.  Chrysostom's  Church, 

Richmond,  Virginia. 

Should  the  bride  be  an  orphan,  her  invitations 
are,  of  course,  issued  in  the  name  of  her  near- 
est surviving  relative ;  if  she  has  an  older  sister 
whose  years  warrant  the  procedure,  the  invita- 
tions should  be  issued  in  the  sister's  name. 
Sometimes  it  happens  that  they  must  be  issued 
in  the  name  of  a  brother  who  may  or  may  not 
be   married,   in    which   case    the   phraseology 


248  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

would  be:  **  Mr.  Harold  Brown  requests  the 
honour  of  your  presence  at  the  marriage  of 
his  sister  Alice." 

The  married  sister  of  the  bride  would  use  the 
following  form:  "  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Thomas  H. 
Wright  request  the  pleasure  of  your  company 
at  the  marriage  of  Mrs.  Wright's  sister,  Miss 
Alice  Brown,"  etc.  Grandparents,  or  any 
other  relatives  of  the  bride-elect,  would  also 
specify  their  exact  degree  of  relationship  to  the 
bride.  Unfortunately,  it  frequently  happens 
that  relatives  either  do  not  exist  or  are  not 
available,  and  the  wedding  takes  place  at  the 
house  of  a  friend,  in  which  case  the  invitations 
would  read  as  follows: 

The  pleasure  of  your  company  is  requested 

at  the  marriage  of 

Mrs.  Lucy  Thompson 

to  (or  "  with  ") 

Mr.  Frederick  Hardin 

on  Wednesday,  November  third, 

at  half -past  three  o'clock, 

at  the  residence  of 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Arthur  Campbell, 

Sixteen  Main  Street. 


WEDDINGS  24* 


Should  tlie  bride  be  a  half-orphan  and  the 
remaining  parent  have  remarried,  her  invita- 
tions are  issued  in  the  name  of  her  own  parent 
and  her  step-parent,  the  phraseology  clearly 
defining  whose  child  she  is,  unless  she,  through 
her  affection  for  her  step-parent,  prefers  not  to 
have  this  distinction  inserted. 

The  wedding  cards  of  a  stepdaughter  would 
take  this  form:  "  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Edward  B. 
Hilton  request  the  pleasure  of  your  company 
at  the  marriage  of  Mrs.  Hilton's  daughter, 
Florence  Potter  " ;  or,  should  she  be  the  daugh- 
ter of  the  husband:  "  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Edward  B. 
Hilton  ...  at  the  marriage  of  Mr.  Hilton's 
daughter,  Florence." 

If  the  father  is  a  widower,  it  goes  without 
saying  that  the  cards  will  be  issued  in  his  name 
alone. 

This  formula  is  engraved  on  the  first  page 
of  a  double  sheet,  and  under  no  circumstances 
must  occupy  more  than  one  page.  Modern 
usage  demands  that  the  words  ' '  honour  of  your 
presence  "  be  employed  whenever  the  invita- 
tion is  for  a  church  wedding.  Where  the  con- 
tracting parties  are  of  such  social  prominence 
that  it  is  more  than  probable  inquisitive 
strangers  will  obtrude  their  presence,  to  the 
entire  upsetting  of  the  most  careful  arrange- 
ments, it  will  be  found  absolutely  necessary  to 


250  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

guard  against  the  imposition  by  enclosing  with 
every  invitation  a  card  of  admission.  These 
cards  are  slips  of  white  cardboard  measuring 
about  41/4  by  21/0  inches,  and  inscribed : 

Please  present  this  card  at 

St.  Thomas's  Church, 

on  Thursday,  October  fifth. 

When  a  church  wedding  is  followed  by  a  re- 
ception or  breakfast,  the  bride's  people  would 
enclose  with  the  wedding  invitation  an  engraved 
card,  reading: 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  Fenton 

request  the  pleasure  of 


company 

on  Monday,  October  first, 

at  half -past  tiielrc  o'clock. 

Fifteen  Pleasant  Avenue. 

JR.  s.  r.  p. 


WEDDINGS  25t 

This  card  would  be  of  medium  size,  a  point 
usually  determined  by  the  stationer.  A  briefer 
form  would  be  the  following : 

Reception 

from  half -past  three  o'clock. 

Fifteen  Pleasant  Avenue. 

R.  S.  V.  P. 

Possibly  the  most  sensible  as  well  as  the 
most  charming  form  for  an  invitation  to  a  mid- 
day wedding  which  is  to  be  followed  by  a  break- 
fast at  the  bride's  home  is  that  which  follows 
the  English  model.  It  is  engraved  on  a  double 
sheet,  and  at  the  bottom  of  the  page,  in  small 
lettering,  the  following  words  are  to  be  found : 
"  And  afterwards  at  breakfast,"  followed  by 
the  address  of  the  bride's  parents. 

If  the  wedding  is  at  home  the  invitations  are 
the  same  as  for  a  church  ceremony,  except  that 
the  phrase  "pleasure  of  your  company"  is 
used  instead  of  "  honour  of  your  presence."  If 
the  wedding  ceremony  is  to  be  witnessed  only 
by  the  immediate  families,  but  followed  by  a 
large  reception,  the  invitations  will  be  worded 
as  follows : 


252  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frank  H.  Mott 

request  the  pleasure  of  your  company 

at  the  ivedding  reception  of  their  daughter 

Madeline 

and 

Mr.  John  Henry  Herrick, 

on  Monday  afternoon,  October  fourth, 

at  four  o'clock. 

Two  Htindred  La  Salle  Avenue. 

In  the  case  of  special  friends  or  relatives 
whose  presence  is  desired  at  the  marriage  cere- 
mony, small  cards  will  be  enclosed,  upon  which 
is  engraved,  "  Ceremony  at  half  after  three 
o'clock."  It  may  happen  that  the  wedding  is  to 
take  place  in  a  country  neighborhood,  or  some 
other  locality  some  little  distance  away  from 
the  town  or  city  from  which  the  majority  of  the 
guests  are  expected.  "When  such  is  the  case, 
a  schedule  of  trains,  or  other  means  of  trans- 
port, either  provided  especially  for  the  guests 
or  which  they  will  find  to  be  most  convenient 
for  their  purpose,  will  be  specified  as  follows : 


VEDDINGS  253 


Train  leaves  Broad  Street  Station 
for  Rosedale  at  3.10  p.  m. 

Returning  train  leaves  Rosedale 
for  New  York  at  6.15  p.  m. 

Occasionally  tlie  bride's  parents  can  afford 
to  place  a  special  train  at  the  service  of  their 
out-of-town  guests,  in  which  case  a  card  is  en- 
closed in  the  invitation  which  will  serve  as  the 
guest's  passport  to  a  seat  in  the  reserved 
coaches.     It  would  read  as  follows : 

Special  train  leaves 

Broad  Street  Station  for  Rosedale 

at  3.10  p.  m. 

Rosedale  for  Broad  Street  Station 

at  6.15  p.  m. 

Please  present  this  card  at  the  station  gate. 

Such  elaborate  preparation  as  the  hiring  of 
a  special  train  entails  the  addition  of  the  let- 
ters B.  S.  V.  P.,  which  will  enable  the  host  and 
hostess  to  know  for  how  many  persons  they 
must  provide.     A  growing  custom  among  the 


254  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

ladies  of  the  most  exclusive  Eastern  society 
circles  is  to  substitute  the  following  English 
phrase — "  The  favor  of  a  reply  is  requested  " 
— instead  of  the  time-honored  French  initials, 
R.  S.  V.  P. 

There  is  little  difference  between  the  cards  of 
invitation  to  a  woman's  second  marriage  and 
those  employed  for  the  first  ceremony.  They 
are  issued  in  the  name  of  her  parents  or  other 
relatives.  Her  own  Christian  name  or  names 
must  invariably  be  supplemented  by  the  sur- 
name of  her  deceased  husband,  as : 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Le  Roy  Jones 

request  the  honour  of  your  presence 

at  the  marriage  of  their  daughter, 

Mrs.  Eleanor  Hall, 

with 

Mr.  Joseph  Parker, 

on  Tuesday,  December  fourth, 

at  twelve  o'clock, 

at 

St.  Joseph's  Church, 

Beech  Grove. 


tTEDDINGS  255 

Should  the  widow  desire  to  dispense  with 
relatives  as  hosts  and  sponsors,  her  cards 
would  read : 

The  honour  of  your  presence  is  requested 

at  the  marriage  of 

Mrs.  Mary  O'Donnell 

with 

Mr.  John  Harris  Tivomy 

on  Tuesday  afternoon,  June  fourth, 

at  five  o'cloch. 

Church  of  the  Ascension. 

If  a  public  announcement  of  a  marriage  is 
not  made  until  after  marriage  has  taken  place, 
announcement  cards  should  be  mailed  to  all 
relatives  and  friends  of  the  bride  and  groom. 
If  the  marriage  is  only  to  be  witnessed  by  a 
few  persons,  and  no  invitations  are  issued,  it 
will  be  necessary  for  announcement  cards  to  be 
sent,  reading  as  follows — care  being  taken  to 


256  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

see  that  they  are  posted  on  the  day  of  the  wed- 
ding: 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Wells  Dana 

have  the  honour  of  announcing 

the  marriage  of  their  daughter 

Gertrude 

ivith 

Mr.  Henry  Lewis  Avery 

on  Thursday,  October  second, 

1904, 

at  St.  Paul's  Chapel. 

In  such  an  instance  the  joint  card  of  the  newly 
married  couple  could  very  properly  be  enclosed 
with  the  announcement.  This  card  should  bear 
the  address  of  the  newly  united  couple,  giving 
the  bride's  day  at  home,  where  necessary,  as 
well. 

Another  form  of  announcement  which  carries 
its  own  meaning  is  as  follows : 


WEDDINGS  257 


Mr.  Francis  Ransom 

and 

Miss  Lucy  Davis 

have  the  honour  of  announcing 

their  marriage 

on  Saturday,  November  fourth, 

One  thousand  nine  hundred  and  four. 

The  First  Congregational  Church, 

Philadelphia. 

BECALLING  INVITATIONS 

In  the  sad  event  of  illness  or  any  other  acci- 
dent compelling  the  postponement  of  a  wed- 
ding for  which  invitations  have  been  issued  in 
the  ordinary  way,  the  parents  of  the  bride  will 
promptly  issue  printed  cards  notifying  those 
who  have  been  invited  of  the  change  which  cir- 
cumstances have  necessitated.  A  form  usually 
adopted  is : 

Owing  to  the  sudden  illness  of  Mr.  Stephen 
Hood's  father,  Mr.   and  Mrs.  Stephen  Hood 


258  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

hcg  to  recall  the  cards  issued  for  their  daugh- 
ter's uedding  reception. 

It  has  already  been  stated  that  it  is  not  neces- 
sary to  return  a  written  reply  to  wedding  in- 
vitations unless  such  invitations  include  a 
breakfast  or  luncheon,  or  bear  the  letters  R.  S. 
V.  P.  Should  it  be  impossible  or  inconvenient 
for  a  guest  to  accept  an  invitation,  such  fact 
should  be  politely  stated  in  some  such  form  as 
follows,  sending  the  note,  whenever  possible, 
by  messenger.  This  acknowledgment  should  be 
sent  on  the  day  of  the  marriage  and  should  en- 
close two  visiting  cards  addressed  to  the  bride 's 
parents. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Thomas  Wainwrighi 

regret  their  inability  to  accept 

the  kind  invitation  of 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  Houston 

to  the  wedding  reception  of  their  daughter 

on  Thursday  afternoon,  October  fourth, 

at  four  o'clock. 


WEDDINGS  259 

Au  acceptance  wcmld  be  couched  as  follows : 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Thomas  Waimvright 

accept  with  pleasure  the  kind  invitation  of 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  Houston 

to  the  wedding  reception  of  their  daughter, 

on  Thursdai/  (ifteruoon,  October  fourth, 

at  four  o'clock. 

WEDDING  ANNIVERSARIES 

Suitable  originality  is  both  possible  and  per- 
missible in  the  design  of  an  invitation  to  a  wed- 
ding anniversary.  Very  frequently  they  are  so 
designed  as  to  disclose  by  their  ornamentation 
the  meaning  of  the  occasion.  Or,  they  may 
display  the  interwreathed  initials  of  husband 
and  wife,  while  in  the  upper  left  corner  the 
year  of  the  marriage  is  given  and  in  the  oppo- 
site right  upper  corner  that  of  the  anniversary 
which  it  is  intended  to  celebrate.  Frequently 
silver  lettering  is  employed  to  indicate  a  silver 
wedding,  etc.  The  following  are  conventional 
forms : 


260  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

1879  W.  E.  1904 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frederick  Peel 

at  home 

Thursday  evening,  June  fourth, 

after  nine  o'clock. 

Forty  Lake  Shore  Drive. 
Or, 

.  1879  1904: 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frederick  Peel 

request  the  pleasure  of  your  company 

on  the  twenty-fifth 

anniversary  of  their  marriage 

on  Thursday  afternoon,  June  fourth, 

from  four  until  seven  o'clock. 

Forty  Lake  Shore  Drive. 

Cards  or  invitations  to  wedding  anniversary- 
receptions  do  not  demand  a  formal  written  ac- 
ceptance, unless  one  is  requested.  A  sufficient 
acknowledgment  of  the  receipt  of  the  invitation 


WEDDINGS  261 


is  the  presence  of  the  guest,  while  regrets  are 
sent  by  mailing  visiting  cards  addressed  to  the 
host  and  hostess  on  the  day  of  the  function,  or, 
better  still,  despatching  them  by  messenger  at 
the  hour  set  for  the  reception. 

An  unmarried  man  posts  two  of  his  cards, 
while  but  one  is  expected  from  an  unmarried 
woman.  Married  couples,  however,  are  ex- 
pected to  send  two  of  the  husband's  cards  with 
one  of  the  wife's.  While  announcement  cards 
need  no  acknowledgment,  well-bred  people  in- 
variably leave  their  cards  or  call  on  the  bride's 
parents  within  two  weeks  of  the  receipt  of  the 
formal  notification  of  the  marriage,  and  not  un- 
frequently  friends  of  the  bride  and  groom 
answer  announcement  cards  by  brief  notes  of 
congratulation  addressed  to  one  or  the  other. 
This,  of  course,  would  be  the  case  when  the 
friend  lives  at  some  considerable  distance. 

TIME  AND  PI.ACE  FOR  THE   WEDDING 

It  is  said  that  superstition  dies  hard,  and  in 
few  cases  is  this  more  true  than  in  the  careful 
thought  that  is  given  to  the  time  chosen  for  a 
wedding.  For  ages  there  has  been  a  prejudice 
against  marrying  in  the  month  of  May  and  an 
equally  strong  predilection  for  the  month  of 
June.  Of  course  there  is  much  more  to  be  said 
for  June  than  for  any  other  month  in  the  year. 


262  The  modern  hostess 

It  is  the  month  of  roses  and  sunshine,  and  is 
a  time  of  the  year  when  Nature  is  at  her  fresh- 
est and  the  long  summer  days  are  usually  char- 
acterized by  a  stability  of  weather  conditions 
that  probably  no  other  month  can  offer.  Octo- 
ber is  another  popular  month — but  little  less 
popular,  in  fact,  than  the  month  of  June. 

The  Lenten  season  is  practically  the  only 
period  when  no  wedding  of  any  distinction  is 
ever  celebrated.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  would 
practically  be  impossible,  unless  under  excep- 
tional circumstances,  to  hold  a  church  wedding 
in  either  Roman  Catholic,  Episcopal,  or  Lu- 
theran churches  during  that  season  of  fast  and 
penance. 

The  superstition  touching  Friday  clings  with 
additional  tenacity  to  the  general  question  of 
wedding-days.  All  other  days  of  the  week  save 
Sunday  are  favored,  but  she  is  a  plucky  bride 
indeed  who  would  dare  face  the  awful  penalties 
that  superstition  attaches  to  a  Friday  wedding. 

It  has  become  very  much  the  fashion  in 
America  to  follow  the  English  precedent  in  se- 
lecting the  hour  for  the  ceremony.  Conse- 
quently, "  high  noon  "  is  the  more  generally 
selected  hour.  The  origin  of  this  custom  in 
England  is  not  at  all  flattering  to  the  people  of 
that  day,  for  that  early  hour,  comparatively 
speaking,  had  become  an  absolute  necessity  if  it 


BEDDINGS  263 


was  desired  to  insure  the  sobriety  of  the  bride- 
groom. Of  course,  these  were  days  of  hard 
drinking  and  of  conditions  which  would  not  be 
tolerated  to-day,  least  of  all  in  England.  This 
will  be  unwelcome  reading  for  many  of  those 
who  lament  the  passing  of  the  "  good  old 
times."  A  far  more  sensible  time  would  be  be- 
tween three  and  five  o'clock  in  the  afternoon. 
Such  an  arrangement  offers  such  sterling  ad- 
vantages as  a  greater  leisure  for  preparation 
and  far  greater  convenience  for  the  guests,  and 
certainly  a  far  more  easily  managed  entertain- 
ment or  reception  after  the  ceremony. 

All  the  details  of  the  wedding  are  left  to  the 
choice  of  the  bride  or  her  family.  She  will 
usually  select  her  bridesmaids  from  her  circle 
of  intimate  friends  and  relatives,  and,  if  pos- 
sible, include  one  or  more  sisters  of  the  bride- 
groom. It  is  the  traditional  privilege  of  the 
bride's  best  friend  to  serve  as  maid  of  honor, 
exception  being  made  in  favor  of  a  sister.  Sim- 
ilarly, the  best  man  is  usually  the  brother  of  the 
bridegroom  or  his  closest  friend.  The  ushers 
are  selected  from  among  the  acquaintances  of 
both  the  young  people. 

bridesmaids'  dinner 

A  very  popular  custom  is  for  the  bride-elect 
to  give  a  dinner  to  her  bridesmaids,  usually 


264  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

about  a  week  before  the  marriage.  The  groom, 
his  best  man,  and  ushers  may  be  invited,  but 
ordinarily  the  affair  is  confined  to  the  brides- 
maids and  such  other  girl  friends  as  may  be 
desired.  This  dinner  is  probably  the  greatest 
frolic  of  all  that  take  place  during  the  engage- 
ment, and  is  invariably  an  opportunity  of  which 
the  average  girl  will  accordingly  avail  herself 
to  revive  all  the  innocent  old  superstitions. 
For  instance,  what  sucli  dinner  would  be  com- 
plete without  the  huge  cake  which  is  brought 
with  the  ices  at  the  close  of  the  feast  and  which 
contains  a  ring,  a  key,  and  a  thimble  ?  The  dis- 
coverers of  each  are  supposed  to  be  titted  for 
either  marriage,  wealth,  or  single-blessedness. 
With  this  surely  the  worshipper  of  the  good 
old  days  will  disparagingly  compare  the  old- 
fashioned  quilting  party  which  formerly  was 
the  important  girl  function  preceding  the  mar- 
riage. Certainly  this  old-time  custom  had  a 
utilitarian  purpose  very  foreign  to  its  modern 
successor.  A  keen  eye  to  future  housekeeping 
interests  always  saw  to  it  that  the  quilting 
party  had  the  greatest  practical  value.  The 
prosaic  character  of  the  occasion,  however,  was 
varied  with  the  usual  superstitions.  For  in- 
stance, the  young  woman  who  set  the  last  stitch 
would  surely  be  the  first  bride,  and  should  any 
unfortunate    young   woman   drop   scissors   or 


■^ITEDDINGS  26S 

thimble,  woe  be  to  her  chances  of  marriage  for 
that  year  at  least ! 

In  these  times  the  bride-elect  uses  the  dinner 
to  present  to  her  bridesmaids  souvenirs,  which 
ordinarily  consist  of  simple  pieces  of  jewelry, 
such  as  fans  or  such  other  trifles  as  may  be 
wanted  at  the  wedding  ceremony.  In  any  case 
they  are  all  alike.  Unfortunately,  such  a  pro- 
ceeding is  apt  to  form  an  expensive  addition  to 
resources  already  severely  taxed,  but  if  the  girl 
be  at  all  clever,  she  may  prepare  some  little  gift 
that  will  be  all  the  more  valuable  because  it 
has  been  made  by  her  own  fair  fingers. 

bridegroom's  dinner 

Custom  demands  that  the  expectant  groom 
should  also  give  a  "  stag  "  dinner  to  his  best 
man,  ushers,  and  intimate  friends  some  time 
within  a  week  or  so  of  his  marriage.  The  din- 
ner is  given  at  his  club  if  he  is  a  member  of  one, 
or  in  a  private  room  of  some  restaurant,  or  it 
may  be  at  his  own  home,  although  usually  that 
method  is  only  adopted  where  the  other  two  are 
impossible.  The  ushers  find  beside  their  "  but- 
tonholes "  such  little  presents  as  scarf  pins,  for 
instance,  which  will  serve  as  souvenirs  of  the 
wedding.  The  bachelor  dinner  does  not  fall 
behind  that  of  the  bride  in  the  matter  of  merri- 
ment.   A  prominent  feature  of  most  bachelor 


266  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


dinners  is  the  drinking  of  the  bride's  health. 
This  custom  is  not  demanded  arbitrarily  for 
her,  and  it  is  omitted  entirely  without  any  ap- 
parent loss  to  the  cordiality  and  enjoyment  of 
the  occasion.  Where  the  custom  is  followed, 
however,  the  bride's  health  is  drunk  standing, 
after  which  each  man  breaks  his  glass,  osten- 
sibly that  it  may  never  be  put  to  less  honor- 
able use.  This  follows  an  ancient  custom  in  the 
officers'  mess  of  the  British  army  when  the 
health  of  the  king  or  queen  is  called  for.  It  is 
scarcely  necessary  to  say  that  both  the  bride- 
groom and  his  guests  will  see  to  it  that  the  mer- 
riment incidental  to  this  occasion  does  not  as- 
sume a  character  that  would  be  an  insult  to  the 
bride  were  she  present. 

CHURCH   OR   HOME   WEDDINGS? 

To  the  religiously  inclined  man  or  woman 
there  can  be  no  question  as  to  preference  in  the 
matter  of  a  church  or  home  wedding.  Partic- 
ularly is  this  true  should  the  bride  belong  to 
any  of  the  older  religious  communions.  Cer- 
tain it  is  that  the  hallowed  sanctity  of  the  house 
of  God  seems  to  breathe  a  Divine  benediction 
that  should  be  comforting  to  the  bride,  who  is 
moving  forward  to  an  entirely  new  environ- 
ment, and  giving  up  the  remainder  of  her  life 
to  the  control  and  influence  of  another  human 


WEDDINGS  267 


being.  Then,  if  ever,  she  needs  the  conscious- 
ness of  a  Divine  protector.  On  the  other  hand, 
a  home  wedding  carries  with  it  a  sense  of 
warmth  and  human  cordiality  that  is  particu- 
larly attractive  to  the  girl  whose  home  life  has 
been  her  highest  happiness. 

Among  the  Protestant  communions  the  state- 
liest wedding  ceremony  is  undoubtedly  that  of 
the  Protestant  Episcopal  Church,  for  although 
parts,  if  not  all,  of  its  wedding  ritual  are  bor- 
rowed by  other  churches,  there  are  a  solemnity 
and  a  power  which  would  seem  to  be  inseparable 
from  a  ritualistic  service  that  has  been  un- 
varying since  the  first  day  of  the  Christian  era. 
It  will  be  best,  therefore,  to  describe  a  church 
wedding  in  the  Episcopal  Church  and  with  the 
Episcopal  ritual,  seeing  that  but  little  altera- 
tion would  be  necessary  to  fit  the  description 
for  the  church  of  any  other  denomination. 

But  first  it  will  be  in  order  to  speak  of  the 
more  important  details,  any  one  of  which,  if 
forgotten,  might  impair  the  entire  ceremony. 
The  bridegroom  will  make  it  his  business  to 
arrange  for  the  marriage  license,  or,  in  those 
States  where  that  is  not  necessary,  to  see  the 
clergyman  who  is  to  perform  the  ceremony.  In 
this  connection  it  may  happen  to  be  desired 
that  some  clergyman  officiate  other  than  the 
rector  or  vicar  of  the  church  in  which  the  cere- 


268  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


mony  is  to  be  held.  In  such  a  case,  the  bride- 
groom should  call  on  the  rector  first  and 
broach  the  matter  delicately,  paving  the  way 
for  a  consent  to  his  request.  It  must  be  borne 
in  mind  that  this  is  a  point  upon  which  every 
clergyman  is  very  properly  sensitive.  If  it  is 
to  be  a  public  wedding,  arrangements  will  have 
to  be  made  with  the  sexton  for  the  opening  of 
the  church.  However,  the  rector  will  issue  the 
necessary  orders  if  requested  by  the  groom. 

With  regard  to  music,  organist,  choristers, 
organ  blower,  etc.,  some  churches  have  a  fixed 
tariff,  while  in  others  it  is  left  to  the  organist 
to  charge  what  he  will,  or  it  is  left,  like  the  min- 
ister's fee,  to  the  generosity  of  the  groom. 
Usually,  the  bride  and  her  mother  will  discuss 
and  arrange  with  the  organist  the  musical  pro- 
gramme to  be  played  on  the  occasion.  There  is 
a  frequent  joke  of  which  the  humorous  writers 
invariably  avail  themselves  concerning  the 
character  of  the  musical  selections  sometimes 
made.  For  instance,  at  a  church  in  the  vicinity 
of  New  York  the  organist  astounded  his  con- 
gregation by  playing  such  pieces  as  "  O, 
Promise  Me  "  and  similar  numbers.  It  will  be 
apparent  to  the  most  unmiaginative  reader  how 
vilely  out  of  place  such  music  sounds  in  a 
temple  dedicated  to  the  worship  of  God,  and 
during  a  service  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the 


WEDDINGS  269 


vast  majority  of  the  chiarchgoers  of  such  com- 
munion, is  a  sacrament  of  the  Church.  Op- 
eratic music,  vocal  or  instrumental,  is  asso- 
ciated with  the  theatre  rather  than  with  the 
church,  and  its  employment  during  a  wedding 
ceremony  is  an  inconsistency  which  will  mar  its 
solemnity  for  very  many  of  the  people  who  have 
to  listen  to  it. 

The  organ  compositions  of  Guilmant,  Widor, 
Brahms,  and  many  of  our  American  organ 
composers  will  be  found  in  every  good  organ- 
ist's repertoire,  and  from  these  he  should  be 
allowed  to  make  his  selections.  The  one  ex- 
ception to  this  rule  would  be,  perhaps,  the  bri- 
dal chorus  from  "  Lohengrin,"  but,  where  this 
is  sung,  care  should  be  taken  that  words  suit- 
able for  the  occasion  are  substituted  for  the 
words  used  in  the  opera. 

The  question  of  singing  a  hymn  is  a  vexed 
one,  the  general  rule  being  to  omit  it  and  sub- 
stitute instead  a  short  anthem.  Perhaps  one 
of  the  simplest  and  at  the  same  time  most  ex- 
quisite ceremonies  witnessed  in  New  York  City 
for  many  years  was  that  of  the  Duke  of  Rox- 
burghe  with  a  daughter  of  the  Goelet  family, 
which  occurred  at  St.  Thomas's  Church,  New 
York  City,  in  the  early  part  of  1904.  The 
anthem  for  the  occasion  was  Barnby's  "  Sweet 
is  Thy  Mercy,  Lord,"  an  anthem  which  in  its 


270  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


sweet  simplicity  is  exquisitely  beautiful,  and 
fitted  for  the  occasion,  while  at  the  same  time  it 
is  within  the  reach  of  the  most  primitive  coun- 
try choir.  The  Church  Hymual  will  be  found  to 
contain  several  hymns  set  apart  for  a  marriage 
service.  In  England  tradition  nearly  always 
favors  "  The  voice  that  breathed  o'er  Eden." 

The  organist  will  give  a  short  organ  recital, 
taking  up  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  before 
the  time  set  for  the  ceremony.  This  covers  all 
the  confusion  incidental  to  placing  guests  in  the 
positions  allotted  to  them,  and  at  the  sauie  time 
interests  those  who  come  early. 

The  chancel  of  the  church  Avill  be  decorated 
according  to  the  resources  of  the  florist  en- 
gaged; but  here,  again,  care  must  be  taken  to 
secure  permission  of  the  rector  before  attempt- 
ing to  place  any  decorations  in  his  church.  If 
the  decorations  arc  to  be  elaborate,  the  florist 
or  decorator,  besides  supplying  flowers  for  the 
altar  and  the  reading  desk,  will  also  cover  the 
chancel  rail  and  choir  stalls  and  swing  a  rope 
of  flowers  across  the  centre  aisle,  in  place  of 
the  white  ribbon  which  is  generally  used  to 
mark  the  division. 

For  a  city  church  an  awning  will  be  found 
very  useful.  A  strip  of  carpet  will  be  laid  from 
the  edge  of  the  curb  to  the  church  door,  while 
a  man  in  livery  will  be  stationed  at  the  carriage 


WEDDINGS  271 


steps  to  receive  checks  and  call  tlie  vehicles 
again  when  needed.  The  church  should  be 
open  at  least  half  an  hour  before  the  ceremony, 
at  which  time  the  organist  should  be  at  his  in- 
strument and  the  ushers  prepared  to  show 
guests  to  their  seats.  It  is  customary  to  set 
apart  the  first  two  to  four  or  eight  pews  next 
the  chancel  on  the  right  and  left  of  the  centre 
aisle  for  the  accommodation  of  the  families 
immediately  concerned,  together  with  their  in- 
timate friends,  and  a  string  of  flowers  or  a 
white  satin  ribbon  will  be  used  to  form  a  barrier 
between  these  favored  ones  and  the  rest  of  the 
company.  In  many  cases,  however,  and  par- 
ticularly if  the  ushers  are  alert,  such  a  protec- 
tion will  not  be  necessary,  for  it  will  be  com- 
paratively easy  for  them  to  take  people  where 
they  are  to  sit  during  the  ceremony.  Innu- 
merable jealousies  and  heart-burnings  have 
been  the  result  of  a  seat  above  or  below  this 
floral  barrier,  a  possibility  which  is  not  at  all 
probable  where  sixch  a  barrier  is  not  employed 
and  ushers  are  left  free  to  manage  the  aifair 
themselves. 

The  bridegroom,  according  to  custom,  will 
provide  the  bride  with  her  boiiquet,  performing 
a  like  favor  to  the  bridesmaids.  In  addition  to 
the  souvenirs  to  his  best  man  and  ushers,  he 
also  supplies  the  gloves  and  neckties  worn  by 


272  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

these  gentlemen,  altliougli  it  is  tlie  duty  of  the 
best  man  to  ascertain  the  size  of  gloves  and 
attend  to  their  purchase.  These  should  be  sent 
to  the  addresses  of  the  men  done  up  in  boxes 
tied  with  white  ribbon,  although  they  are  some- 
times placed  at  their  covers  at  the  formal 
bachelor  dinner  given  by  the  bridegroom. 

The  clergyman's  fee  is  the  chief  question  for 
the  bridegroom  to  decide.  This  is  rarely  less 
than  five  dollars.  This  money  or  check  is 
placed  in  an  envelope  and  entrusted  to  the  best 
man.  The  money  for  the  organist  and  choir 
and  music  generally  should  be  enclosed  in  an- 
other envelope  and  handed  to  the  organist  im- 
mediately after  service. 

THE   BEIDE 

The  bride  decides  on  the  style,  pattern,  and 
inaking  of  the  bridesmaids'  gowns,  and  if  these 
are  paid  for  by  the  young  women  themselves  it 
is  always  well  to  remember  to  select  colors, 
styles,  and  material  that  it  may  be  possible  for 
'their  wearers  to  use  after  the  original  occasion 
has  passed.  Of  course,  if  the  bride  is  very 
wealthy,  it  would  be  a  generous  and  considerate 
action  to  pay  for  the  dresses  herself. 

The  bridesmaids'  gowns  are  usually  light  in 
color,  and  form  an  artistic  contrast  to  the 
bride's  dress.     They  carry  large  bouquets  of 


WEDDINGS  273 


flowers   that  correspond  with  the   shade   em- 
ployed in  their  costumes. 

The  maid  of  honor  is  an  exception  in  that  her 
gown  is  different  in  color  from  those  of  the 
bridesmaids,  the  idea  usually  being  to  have  it 
of  a  shade  which  transposes  the  color  of  the 
bridesmaids'  dresses  into  the  white  of  the  bridal 
attire,  and  in  any  case  it  will  be  of  a  more  elab- 
orate design.  Of  late  there  has  sprung  up  the 
practice  of  employing  a  matron  of  honor  in- 
stead of  a  maid  of  honor;  but  this  is  usually 
only  when  the  favored  sister  or  friend  of  the 
bride  is  a  married  woman. 

All  the  women  of  the  party  wear  hats  and 
gloves,  a  fashion  for  which  St.  Paul  is  respon- 
sible, at  least  so  far  as  the  hats  are  concerned. 
Should  it  happen  that  a  close  friend  of  the 
bride's  is  in  mourning,  and  yet  desires  to  be 
present,  it  will  be  entirely  proper  for  her  to 
discard  her  mourning  for  that  occasion,  for  a 
marriage  is  a  religious  rite  and  in  that  sense 
exempt  from  the  conventions  that  dominate 
social  functions  pure  and  sunple.  Above  all 
else  the  bride  should  make  every  effort  to  be  on 
time.  She  should  be  at  the  church  door  exactly 
on  the  stroke  of  the  hour  named  in  her  invita- 
tions, but  to  do  this  properly  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  arrange  that  the  bridesmaids  and  maid 
of  honor  are  assembled  in  their  carriages  in 


274  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


good  season  before  the  bride's  door,  ready  for 
the  drive  to  the  church. 

The  bride's  mother  and  family  leave  the 
house  for  the  church  a  little  in  advance  of  the 
bridal  party.  At  the  church  door  the  mother  is 
met  by  the  head  usher  and  is  escorted  to  her 
seat,  which  is  in  the  first  pew  to  the  left,  at  the 
top  of  the  centre  aisle. 

When  the  bridal  party  appears  at  the  church 
the  vestibule  and  centre  aisle  are  cleared  by  the 
ushers  and  at  the  same  time  the  doors  leading 
from  the  vestibule  into  the  church  are  closed, 
which  enables  the  bride  and  her  party  to  as- 
semble for  the  procession  to  the  altar. 

The  bridegroom,  with  his  best  man,  is  waiting 
in  an  alcove,  or  vestry-room,  near  the  altar. 
When  everything  is  in  readiness,  the  bridal 
party  correctly  formed,  the  organist  at  his  in- 
strument, and  the  priest  in  the  chancel,  aji 
usher  detailed  for  the  duty  gives  the  signal  to 
everybody.  Immediately  the  organ  peals  forth 
its  welcoming  strains,  the  priest  rises  and 
stands,  half  facing  the  advancing  procession, 
the  bridegroom,  closely  followed  by  his  best 
man,  emerges  from  his  waiting-place,  and  sta- 
tions himself  at  the  left  of  the  chancel  gate, 
turning  to  meet  his  advancing  bride — the 
groomsman  retaining  his  position  behind  the 
groom.     The  bridal  procession  is   led  by  the 


WEDDINGS  275 


ushers,  walking  two  by  two,  followed  by  the 
bridesmaids  in  the  same  order.  Each  file 
should  maintain  a  distance  from  the  file  in  front 
of  at  least  five  feet,  preferably  six. 

Next  in  order  of  precedence  comes  the  maid 
of  honor,  who  walks  alone,  immediately  pre- 
ceding the  bride— except  in  the  more  important, 
or  rather  the  more  elaborate,  ceremonials,  for 
it  very  frequently  happens  that  the  more  im- 
portant are  the  most  simple.  Frequently  the 
maid  of  honor  will  be  followed  by  two  little 
flower-boys  or  flower-girls  scattering  flowers  in 
the  aisle  as  they  walk  before  the  bride.  If  the 
choir  is  engaged,  it  will  meet  the  procession  at 
the  vestibule  door,  and  precede  it  to  the  altar. 
The  singers  proceed  to  their  ordinary  places  in 
the  choir  stalls,  singing  an  epithalamium,  which 
will  be  brought  to  a  close  at  the  moment  when 
the  choirmaster  or  organist  (whoever  is  in 
charge  of  the  music)  sees  that  all  the  persons 
who  are  to  take  part  in  the  ceremony  are  in 
their  assigned  places  and  ready  for  the  cere- 
mony to  commence.  A  practice  which,  for  a 
good  many  years,  had  been  very  prevalent 
throughout  the  country  was  to  have  the  organ- 
ist play  a  very  subdued  accompaniment  to  the 
service,  but  of  late  there  has  sprung  up  a  strong 
sentiment  against  it,  on  the  score  of  its  seeming 
theatricalism.     Incidentally,    theatricalism    is 


276 THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

the  one  danger  of  a  ritualistic  service,  a  danger 
for  which  the  average  man  or  woman  will  do 
well  to  be  constantly  on  the  alert.  The  singing 
of  a  processional  has  a  far  more  devotional 
and,  consequently,  a  far  better  effect  than  the 
mere  accompaniment  of  an  organ;  but,  of 
course,  the  services  of  singers  are  not  easily  ob- 
tained, and  constitute  an  expense  not  in  the 
least  essential  to  a  well-ordered  ceremony. 

The  bride,  leaning  on  the  right  arm  of  her 
father, — or  whoever  is  to  give  her  away, — 
brings  up  the  rear  of  the  procession,  which, 
arriving  at  the  top  of  the  chancel  steps,  divides, 
half  going  to  the  right  and  half  to  the  left. 
They  are  grouped  so  as  to  form  a  semicircle  on 
either  side,  the  bridesmaids  placing  themselves 
between  the  ushers.  Various  artifices  are  re- 
sorted to  to  insure  every  individual  taking  up 
his  appointed  place;  usually  a  chalk  line  is 
adopted.  The  maid  of  honor  takes  her  place  in 
front  of  the  bridesmaids,  and  to  the  left  rear  of 
the  bride.  The  bridegroom,  of  course,  ad- 
vances to  the  head  of  the  chancel  steps  to  meet 
the  bride,  whereupon  her  escort  surrenders  her 
to  him,  and  they  proceed  to  take  their  places 
before  the  clergjTnan,  kneeling  for  a  moment  in 
silent  devotion.  The  bride's  father  or  escort 
meanwhile  will  step  back  a  few  feet  before  the 
clergjonan  begins  the  marriage  ceremony.     In 


^S^EDDINGS  277 


England  it  is  a  custom  to  hold  the  betrothal  ser- 
vice at  the  foot  of  the  chancel  steps,  near  where 
the  reading  desk  ordinarily  stands,  the  more 
solemn  ceremony  which  makes  them  man  and 
wife  being  performed  before  the  altar,  where 
the  bride  and  bridegroom  stand  alone  with  the 
priest.  Of  course  there  are  many  other 
methods  of  escorting  the  bride  to  the  altar,  but 
in  the  striving  after  novelty  the  bride  should  be 
careful  not  to  permit  the  ceremony  to  degen- 
erate into  vulgar  display  or  the  cheaper  theat- 
ricalism  already  spoken  of.  Sometimes  the 
order  just  described  is  departed  from,  and  in- 
stead of  the  eight  bridesmaids  preceding  the 
bride,  they  proceed  up  the  side  aisles  in  groups 
of  four  and  in  single  file,  meeting  at  the  chancel 
steps  and  returning  down  the  centre  aisle  in 
pairs,  where  they  meet  the  bride  about  half-way 
down.  Here  the  couples  divide,  standing  on 
either  side  of  the  aisle,  while  the  bride  and  her 
escort  pass  between,  the  bridesmaids  re-form- 
ing and  following  after.  The  order  is  changed 
for  the  ushers  also,  who,  in  the  instance  just 
given,  precede  the  bridesmaids  up  the  side 
aisles,  remaining  at  the  chancel  to  await  the 
procession ;  re-forming  the  moment  it  has  passed 
between  them.  When  the  clergyman  arrives  at 
that  part  of  the  service  where  he  asks  the  ques- 
tion "  Who  giveth  this  woman  to  be  married 


278  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

to  this  man  ?  ' '  the  father  or  other  near  relative 
whose  duty  it  is  to  give  the  bride  away,  ad- 
vances and,  taking  her  right  hand,  places  it  in 
that  of  the  clergj-man,  who  in  turn  gives  it  into 
the  right  hand  of  the  bridegroom.  This  duty 
done,  the  father,  or  whoever  takes  his  place, 
will  leave  the  bridal  party  and  join  the  bride's 
family  in  tlie  pew  reserved  for  their  use. 

Should  the  widowed  mother  of  the  bride  give 
her  away,  she  will  merely  rise  from  her  seat  and 
bow  her  consent.  Htre  also  there  is  a  varia- 
tion of  order,  for  occasionally  it  is  so  arranged 
that  the  bride  retains  her  father's  arm,  staying 
by  his  side  until  the  promises  are  made.  When 
taking  her  hand  from  his  arm  he  places  it  ten- 
derly in  the  hand  of  the  bridegroom.  While 
this  procedure  varies  from  the  traditional  cus- 
tom it  has  a  certain  charm  in  the  sentiment 
which  it  conveys.  But  it  is  with  the  ceremony 
of  the  ring  that  the  climax  of  interest  is 
reached.  This  has  been  in  the  care  of  the  best 
man,  who  will,  when  the  clergyman  comes  to 
the  "  plighting  of  the  troth  and  giving  of  the 
ring,"  take  it  from  his  pocket  and  hand  it  to 
the  bridegroom.  Just  before  this,  however,  the 
bride  and  bridegroom  have  clasped  hands,  the 
bride's  gloves  and  bouquet  being  held  by  the 
maid  of  honor,  who  must  be  in  readiness  to  re- 
ceive them.     The  best  man  having  given  the 


WEDDINGS  279 

ring  to  the  bridegroom,  that  individual  imme- 
diately passes  it  over  to  the  bride,  who  in  turn 
hands'  it  to  the  clergyman,  who  then  completes 
the  circle  by  giving  it  back  again  to  the  bride- 
groom, who  places  it  upon  the  fourth  finger  of 
the  bride's  left  hand. 

THE  WEDDING-EING 

The  wedding-ring  is  always  of  plain  gold  with 
the  initials  of  the  bride  and  bridegroom,  to- 
gether with  the  date  of  marriage  engraved  on 
its  inside.     Tradition  states  that  the   fourth 
finger  of  the  left  hand  was  chosen  to  wear  the 
ring,  because  it  was  supposed  that  a  nerve  con- 
nected that  finger  directly  with  the  heart.    Of 
late  some  have  hold  that  the  word  "  obey  "  in 
the  marriage  service  is  an  anachronism  abso- 
lutely foreign  to  the  position  of  woman  in  this 
twentieth  century.    This  may  or  may  not  be  so, 
according  to  the  point  of  view,  but  to  the  great 
majority  of  xVmerican  women  at  least  the  word 
is  nothing  to  quibble  about.    It  is  still  true  that 
the  American  girl  is  a  helpmeet  to  her  husband 
in  the  highest  sense  of  the  word,  and  that  the 
word  "  obey  "  has  not  by  any  means  the  same 
implication  as  in  those  parts  of  the  world  where 
the  woman  is  merely  a  chattel,  having  but  a 
comparative  value  with  her  lord  and  master's 
horse  and  dog.    In  any  event,  it  is  not  likely 


280  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

that  the  average  bride  for  a  long  tkue  to  come 
will  give  the  matter  much  serious  thought.  The 
old  and  charming  custom  of  the  young  husband 
kissing  his  bride  immediately  after  the  words 
"  I  pronounce  you  man  and  wife  "  is  now  en- 
tirely out  of  fashion.  At  the  end  of  the  cere- 
mony the  clergyman  congratulates  the  couple. 
It  is  still  the  custom  to-day  in  England  for  the 
clergyman  to  make  a  few  remarks  regarding 
the  responsibilities  to  be  assumed,  closing  with 
a  few  words  of  fatherly  advice ;  but  in  the  rit- 
ualistic churches  of  America  such  a  thing  rarely 
happens.  This  rule  varies  among  churches  of 
different  communions,  obtaining  preferably 
where  an  officiating  minister  has  had  close  pas- 
toral relations  with  the  bride's  or  bridegroom's 
family.  Sometimes  it  happens  that  the  same 
minister  has  married  the  parents,  baptized  the 
child,  prepared  it  for  its  first  communion,  and 
exercised  a  spiritual  fatherhood  which  is  now 
culminating  in  another  marriage.  Under  these 
circumstances  it  is  only  natural  that  the  min- 
ister will  be  expected  to  add  a  few  words  to  the 
regular  service.  The  bridal  procession  turns 
from  the  altar  and  proceeds  down  the  aisle  in 
reverse  order  to  that  in  which  they  enter. 
Strictly  speaking,  the  friends  and  relatives  of 
the  bridal  party  should  retain  their  seats  until 
the  procession  reaches  the  church  vestibule. 


WEDDINGS  28J 


Before  commencing  the  recessional  the  maid 
of  honor  will  either  part  or  remove  the  veil 
which  thus  far  has  covered  the  bride's  face,  and 
at  the  same  time  so  manipulate  her  train  that 
it  will  hang  properly.  Arriving  at  the  vesti- 
bule, the  families  of  the  bride  and  bridegroom 
are  then  released,  and  the  entire  party  proceeds 
to  the  bride's  house,  the  bride  and  bridegroom 
driving  away  together.  In  order  that  the 
bridal  coach  may  be  ready  to  receive  the  newly 
married  pair,  the  best  man  follows  the  clergy- 
man into  the  vestry  and  hurries  down  the  side 
aisle  or  through  the  basement  of  the  church 
door,  where  he  may  ascertain  that  everything 
is  in  readiness  and  at  the  same  time  give  to  the 
bridegroom  his  hat  and  coat.  When  the  party 
arrives  at  the  house  of  the  bride  the  best  man 
and  the  ushers  at  once  take  up  the  duty  of  pre- 
senting the  guests  to  the  bridal  pair. 

In  England,  and  occasionally  in  this  country 
where  the  marriage  is  solemnized  in  a  ritual- 
istic church,  the  bridal  party  first  goes  into  the 
vestry  before  leaving  the  church  and  the  names 
are  signed  in  the  church  records,  as  also  those 
of  the  witnesses.  If  the  churcn  should  possess 
a  peal  of  bells,  which  is  not  unfrequently  the 
case,  a  very  suggestive  and  effective  coloring 
may  be  given  to  the  entire  affair  by  having  the 
bells  rung  after  the  service.    There  is  a  light- 


2S2  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

hearted  happiness  about  the  ]3eal  of  the  church 
bells  that  appeals  to  the  most  stolid  tempera- 
ment and  adds  a  touch  of  festivity  that  is  in- 
describably suggestive  of  happy  hearts  and 
bright  hopes. 

There  may  be  a  wedding  breakfast  or  a  wed- 
ding reception,  according  to  the  time  at  which 
the  marriage  occurs,  the  reception,  of  course, 
having  the  advantage  of  permitting  the  enter- 
taining of  many  more  friends  than  can  be  ac- 
commodated at  breakfast ;  hence  the  popularity 
of  the  afternoon  wedding. 

A  popular  custom  is  for  the  members  of  both 
families  and  the  bridal  attendants  and  the 
guests  of  the  occasion  to  enter  their  names  in 
a  register  specially  provided  for  that  occasion, 
the  signatures  of  the  newly  married  pair  being 
entered  first.  The  best  man  will  make  this  his 
special  province,  and  will  see  to  it  that  every 
facility  is  provided.  It  is  doubtful  whether  the 
newly  married  pair  will  have  any  more  valuable 
souvenir  than  this  book,  which,  when  bound  in 
white  and  decorated  with  the  arms  or  initials 
of  the  bride  and  bridegroom,  is  as  artistic  a 
souvenir  as  it  is  valuable. 

After  the  bride  and  bridegroom 's  parents  and 
the  bridal  attendants  generally  have  expressed 
their  love  and  congratulations,  the  bridesmaids 
take  up  their  position  with  the  young  couple 


WEDDINGS  283 


and  their  parents  in  some  easily  accessible  place 
and  the  congratulations  of  friends  are  received. 
Half  the  bridesmaids  place  themselves  at  the 
right  hand  of  the  bride  and  the  rest  on  the  left 
of  the  bridegroom;  the  bride's  mother  is  the 
supreme  hostess,  and  the  parents  of  the  bride- 
groom are  the  guests  of  honor.  After  being 
presented  or  offering  their  congratulations  the 
guests  will  move  about  the  room  as  occasion 
may  demand,  but  the  bridal  pair  will  keep  their 
places. 

In  receiving  congratulations  the  bride  ex- 
tends her  hand  with  warm  cordiality,  and  shoiild 
any  of  her  personal  friends  be  unknown  to  her 
husband,  she  should  later  see  these  brought  in 
order  to  present  them. 

KISSING  AT  WEDDINGS 

Formerly  indiscriminate  kissing  was  a  most 
conspicuous  feature  of  a  wedding,  and  those 
who  had  not  succeeded  in  getting  sufficiently 
near  the  bride  during  her  progress  from  the 
altar  to  her  carriage  invariably  forced  their 
generally  unwelcome  salutation  on  the  unfor- 
tunate bride  at  her  home  reception.  Fortu- 
nately this  fashion  is  no  longer  in  vogue,  and, 
in  fact,  is  very  generally  condemned.  The 
bride's  mother  may  sometimes  intercept  her 
newly  married  daughter  in  the  aisle  on  the  way 


2«4  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

from  the  altar,  and  the  two  may  embrace,  for 
surely  the  kiss  of  a  mother  to  a  child  who  has 
just  taken  upon  herself  the  tremendous  respon- 
sibility, which  the  mother  knows  so  well,  may  be 
regarded  as  the  natural  expression  of  a  mother's 
heart.  This  exception  should  by  no  means  be 
used  as  a  precedent  for  the  general  hugging — 
nay,  mobbing — of  the  bride,  which  characterizes 
weddings  where  this  unpleasant  liberty  is  per- 
mitted. 

MUSIC 

A  marriage  festivity  would  scarcely  be  com- 
plete without  music  of  some  sort.  This  feature, 
like  everything  else,  will  depend  on  the  scope 
of  the  reception  or  breakfast;  but  when  the  re- 
ception is  held  in  a  private  house  it  is  well  to 
remember  that  a  few  instruments  with  the 
piano,  partially  hidden  in  some  inconspicuous 
place,  will  serve  every  purpose.  The  volume 
of  sound  should  not  be  such  as  to  make  ordi- 
nary conversation  difficult,  and  in  the  close  con- 
fines of  the  average  household  reception  rooms 
this  is  very  apt  to  be  the  case.  Much  that  has 
been  written  on  the  subject  of  "  Music  "  in  the 
chapter  on  "  Balls  "  will  be  found  to  apply  to 
weddings.  A  very  good  combination  is  the 
harp,  violin,  and  flute;  or  harp,  violin,  and 
'cello,  strengthened,  if  necessary,  by  the  addi- 
tion of  the  flute.   In  the  majority  of  places,  how- 


WEDDINGS  285 


ever,  a  harp  is  not  to  be  obtained,  but  the  piano, 
in  any  case,  will  be  far  more  useful, 

REFRESHMENTS 

This  subject  will  be  found  more  extensively 
treated  under  the  heading  of  Wedding  Break- 
fasts, Luncheons,  etc.  But  it  will  be  well  in 
passing  to  point  out  that  an  amply  supplied 
table,  artistically  decorated,  is  a  very  important 
feature  of  every  wedding  reception.  Cham- 
pagne is  almost  invariably  served.  After  a 
little  while  the  bride  and  groom  will  have  per- 
sonally met  most  of  their  guests  and  will  then 
go  to  the  dining-room,  whereupon  the  best  man 
will  propose  their  health,  the  guests  standing, 
glasses  in  hand.  The  central  personages  of  the 
function  are  then  pledged  to  long  life  and  hap- 
piness, after  which  they  may  retire  to  make  the 
necessary  preparations  for  their  journey. 

THE   DEPAETXJRE 

Custom  has  always  assigned  the  maid  of 
honor,  and  sometimes  the  first  bridesmaid,  to 
the  task  of  assisting  in  preparation  of  the  bride 
for  her  journey.  Sometimes  all  the  brides- 
naaids  share,  but  of  late  this  is  omitted,  and  the 
bride  has  been  left  to  the  care  of  her  own  maid 
or  near  relatives,  the  bridesmaids  watching  for 
her  reappearance. 


286  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

1' laced  upon  a  little  table  iu  the  hall  will  be 
found  a  number  of  tiny  white  boxes  containing 
slices  of  wedding-cake,  which  guests  leaving  the 
house  are  expected  to  take  with  them,  unless  a 
man-  or  maid-servant  has  been  specially  de- 
tailed for  the  work  of  distribution.  The  bride- 
groom will  also  change  his  clothes  and,  together 
with  the  bridesmaids,  relatives,  and  friends, 
stands  at  the  foot  of  the  staircase  to  await  his 
bride.  Her  appearance  is  the  occasion  for  an- 
other general  welcome.  The  ceremony  of  the 
bridal  bouqiiet  may  now  take  place.  The  brides- 
maids with  outstretched  hands  try  to  catch  the 
bouquet  which  the  bride  throws  towards  them, 
for,  according  to  the  traditional  legend,  the 
maid  who  is  successful  will  surely  be  the  next 
bride.  The  custom  of  throwing  rice  after  a  de- 
parting couple  is  gradually  being  abandoned  in 
favor  of  the  far  more  beautiful  practice  of 
showering  the  bride  with  loose  flowers.  The 
rice  custom  is  a  Chinese  idea,  symbolical  of 
good  wishes  for  health  and  prosperity,  but  the 
vulgar  abuse,  which  was  often  attended  with 
injurious  and  always  with  unpleasant  results, 
has  brought  it  into  disrepute.  Similarly  a 
white  slipper,  significant  of  luck,  is  usually 
thrown  after  the  pair;  but  this  also  had  led  to 
extremes. 


WEDDINGS  287 


HONEYMOON 

In  our  country  it  is  greatly  becoming  tlie 
practice  among  the  "  Smart  Set  "  to  follow  the 
English  practice  and  spend  the  honeymoon  at 
a  friend's  country  house.  But  with  the  vast 
majority  of  American  families,  the  country 
house  is  the  town  house  as  well,  so  that  it  would 
scarcely  be  possible  to  take  possession  of  a 
friend's  house  for  honeymoon  purposes  under 
such  circumstances.  The  more  fortunate,  so 
far  as  the  possession  of  this  world's  goods  is 
concerned,  will  make  a  trip  to  Europe;  still 
others,  if  the  season  of  the  year  is  suitable,  to 
the  many  magnificently  interesting  localities  in 
their  own  country. 

The  length  of  time  spent  on  the  honejTUoon 
will  naturally  be  dependent  on  circumstances, 
and  may  be  anything  from  a  week  to  a  month, 
staying  at  some  nearby  place  in  the  mountains 
or  at  the  seaside.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  place 
and  duration  of  a  honeymoon  cannot  be  dic- 
tated either  by  custom  or  fashion,  and  if  the 
young  people  content  themselves  with  enjoying 
that  which  they  can  comfortably  afford,  they 
will  be  doing  the  correct  thing. 


288  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

THE   HOUSE   WEDDING 

Although  lacking  the  stately  dignity  and 
ecclesiastical  environment  of  a  church  wedding, 
with  its  ordered  ritual  and  impressive  vest- 
ments, the  house  wedding  has  a  charm  which  is 
entirely  its  own,  a  charm  wherein  modesty  and 
simplicity  find  their  loftiest  expression  in  an 
ideal  and  touching  ceremony  performed  in  the 
midst  of  surroundings  which  have  been  a  part 
of  the  bride's  girl  life. 

If  the  ceremony  takes  place  in  the  country 
the  reception  may  be  converted  into  a  very 
charming  outdoor  affair  or  lawn  party,  while 
in  the  city  a  generous  use  of  flowers  will  make 
the  most  ordinary  household  belongings  bright 
and  cheery.  The  one  great  drawback  to  a 
house  wedding  is  the  economy  of  space  which 
becomes  necessary.  The  bridegroom,  best  man, 
and  clergjTuan  can  very  easily  share  the  one 
room  which  must  be  put  at  their  disposal,  and 
there  should  be  another  for  the  bride  and  her 
attendants.  The  usual  order  of  the  ceremony 
is  to  hold  the  wedding  in  the  drawing-room  or 
reception  room,  from  which  every  inconvenient 
article  of  furniture  has  been  removed,  and  in 
which  sometimes  a  temporary  altar  is  erected, 
although  this  more  often  than  not  is  omitted, 
on  the  score  of  its  theatrical  effect.    The  guests 


WEDDINGS  289 


are  then  assembled,  care  being  taken  to  see  that 
a  right  of  way  is  maintained  so  that  the  bridal 
party  may  enter  and  advance  toward  the  cler- 
gyman without  being  crowded.  A  plan  usually 
adopted  is  for  two  ushers  to  measure  off  an 
aisle  with  strong  white  ribbon.  The  clergyman 
takes  his  position  in  an  open  place  facing 
the  company,  the  bridegroom  and  best  man 
standing  at  his  left  awaiting  the  bride.  The 
bridal  procession  will  enter  from  the  farthest 
part  of  the  room,  preceded  by  the  ushers,  after 
whom  follow  the  bridesmaids,  the  maid  of 
honor,  and,  last  of  all,  the  bride,  with  her 
father  or  nearest  male  relative. 

At  the  majority  of  house  weddings,  however, 
there  are  neither  bridesmaids  nor  maids  of 
honor,  some  one  intimate  friend  acting  as  at- 
tendant. After  the  ceremony  has  been  per- 
formed the  clergyman  congratulates  the  newly 
married  pair  and  surrenders  his  place  to  the 
young  couple,  who  face  the  assembly  to  receive 
the  congratulations  of  their  parents,  relatives, 
and  friends,  who  in  turn  wish  them  all  happi- 
ness. 

In  brief,  all  the  details  of  ceremony  which 
have  been  described  for  the  church  wedding, 
may  be  adopted  more  or  less  easily,  according 
to  circumstances,  for  a  house  wedding. 


290  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


AN  OUT-OF-DOORS   WEDDING 

Not  unfrequently  there  occurs  an  "  open- 
air  "  wedding,  when  the  ceremony  is  performed 
in  some  favorite  nook  under  the  trees.  Usually, 
this  only  happens  when  the  bride's  home  is  in 
the  country,  and  the  grounds  attached  to  the 
house  are  sufiBciently  ample  to  give  a  broad, 
natural  background.  Much  can  be  said  in  its 
favor,  for  certainly  there  can  be  no  crowding 
or  vitiated  atmosphere,  and  the  natural  sur- 
roundings of  trees  and  flowers,  "  Nature's  vest- 
ments in  God's  cathedral,"  make  the  best  dec- 
orations possible.  The  wedding  breakfast,  or 
other  refreshments,  could  be  served  upon  little 
tables  scattered  about  the  lawn,  and  the  mu- 
sicians placed  on  an  improvised  platform,  or  in 
a  marciuee,  would  be  sufficiently  in  evidence  to 
brighten  the  affair. 

Dancing  rarely  occurs  except  at  an  evening 
wedding,  and  not  always  even  then.  It  is  cor- 
rect etiquette  for  the  bride  to  lead  the  dancing, 
having  the  groom's  best  man  for  her  partner, 
the  groom  following  with  the  maid  of  honor. 
Sometimes  it  is  preferred  to  have  the  bride  and 
groom  open  the  ball. 


WEDDINGS  291 


A  SECOND  MAHKIAGE 

Ordinarily,  the  wedding  of  a  widow-bride 
should  be  much  quieter  and  far  less  elaborate 
than  was  her  first  wedding — but  here  again  it 
is  possible  to  conceive  of  exceptions.  She  must 
not  wear  a  white  gown,  veil,  and  orange  blos- 
soms, but  instead  don  a  visiting  costume.  She 
is  not  attended  by  bridesmaids,  although  she 
may  have  a  maid  or  matron  of  honor.  In  the 
case  of  a  second  marriage,  one  of  the  most  deli- 
cate problems  is  the  question  of  invitations.  It 
is  to  be  presumed,  however,  that  the  lady  in  the 
case  will  have  definite  views  as  to  who  ought  to 
be  there;  but  with  regard  to  her  past  husband's 
family,  unless  they  are  avowedly  antagonistic 
to  her  second  marriage,  she  should  be  careful  to 
give  them  places  of  honor  at  the  ceremony. 

DECORATIONS 

Palms  and  flowers,  easily  hired  for  the  occa- 
sion, together  with  flowering  plants,  if  they  are 
tastefully  disposed,  will  be  found  far  more  ef- 
fective and  certainly  far  more  economical  than 
cut  flowers.  The  decorative  inventiveness  of 
the  average  girl  will  easily  suggest  a  scheme  of 
decorations  that  will  best  suit  the  room  in  which 
the  ceremony  is  to  be  held,  if  it  is  to  be  a  hous(^ 
wedding.     If  it  is  to  be  a  church  wedding,  the 


292  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

decorating  of  the  chancel,  altar,  altar-rail,  choir 
stalls,  and  possibly  the  pews  of  the  families 
immediately  concerned,  might  be  made  to  con- 
stitute a  very  pleasant  evening's  enjoyment  on 
the  part  of  the  bride  and  groom's  young 
friends;  although  ordinarily  the  task  is  com- 
mitted to  a  florist  hired  for  the  occasion.  House 
decorations  should  be  marked  by  great  sim- 
plicity, for  it  should  be  remembered  that  the 
bride  is  the  central  ornament,  and  to  have  the 
flower-scheme  obtruding  itself  on  every  one's 
attention  is  to  mar  the  effect  of  the  whole. 
Where  space  permits,  a  part  of  the  room  is  set 
aside  to  represent  a  miniature  chapel,  or  else 
a  bow  window  is  turned  into  a  bower.  Floral 
wedding  bells  or  other  set  pieces  are  no  longer 
employed.  It  has  already  been  stated  that  the 
tendency  in  "  churchy  "  house  decoration  is  to 
the  theatrical,  but  with  the  exercise  of  a  little 
common  sense  and  the  application  of  good  taste 
this  can  be  avoided. 

THE   BEHEAESAL 

Next  in  importance  to  the  wedding  ceremony 
is  the  rehearsal.  The  more  elaborate  the  func- 
tion the  more  necessary  will  be  the  drill  for  it. 
Of  course  most  of  this  work  can  be  gone  over 
at  home,  but  whenever  possible  the  church 
should   be    secured    for    one    final    rehearsal. 


WEDDINGS  293 


Many  priests  will  not  i^ermit  such  a  use  of  their 
church,  but  the  majority  of  the  sectarian  bodies 
are  far  more  liberal.  In  any  case,  a  little  skil- 
ful diplomacy  will  find  the  way  to  a  com- 
promise wdth  the  most  obdurate  clergjnnan. 
One  of  the  main  reasons  for  a  church  rehearsal 
is  that  frequently  the  bridal  party  will  include 
individuals  who  are  not  acquainted  with  the 
ritual  and  ceremony  of  the  church  in  which  the 
wedding  is  to  take  place,  and  for  such  a  re- 
hearsal is  an  absolute  necessity.  The  church 
rehearsal,  however,  should  not  be  made  the 
occasion  of  a  little  spree.  High  spirits  are  very 
natural  on  such  an  occasion,  but  they  should 
not  find  vent  in  the  sacred  edifice.  Even  though 
the  building  be  a  tumble-down  barn,  if  it  has 
been  dedicated  to  the  service  of  God  it  is  His 
house,  and  the  place  *'  Wherein  His  Honor 
dwelleth."  After  the  rehearsal,  and  at  the 
bride's  house,  refreshments  and  a  generally 
good  time  will  be  in  order. 

THE   PRrV^ILEGES   OF   A  BRIDE 

Time  was,  when  our  country  was  very  young, 
and  the  local  communities  very  small,  that  a 
wedding  was  the  affair  of  the  whole  district. 
It  levelled  what  few  distinctions  were  known  in 
those  days,  and  converted  the  homeliest  of 
maidens  into  the  most  beautiful  of  brides,  the 


294  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

interest  of  the  community  only  reaching  its 
climax  on  the  first  Sunday  after  the  wedding- 
day,  when  the  young  bride  bkishingly  took  her 
place  among  the  matrons,  who  henceforth  were 
to  be  her  friends  and  neighbors.  Not  the  least 
of  the  privileges  was  the  right  to  choose  the 
minister's  text  on  that  occasion,  although  this 
right  was  not  always  insisted  upon.  In  the 
case  of  Miss  Abby  Smith,  however,  the  bride 
availed  herself  of  her  right  to  the  great  undoing 
of  her  pastor.  Miss  Abby  was  the  frolic-loving 
bride  of  John  Adams,  and  the  consternation  of 
the  New  England  minister  may  be  imagined 
when  he  read  the  text  selected  for  his  discourse 
by  the  statesman 's  bride : 

"  John  came,  neither  eating  nor  drinking, 
and  they  say,  He  hath  a  devil !  ' ' 

Enough  of  this  old-time  courtesy  to  the  bride 
still  remains  with  our  modern  society  to  give 
her  a  temporary  social  precedence,  during 
which  period  she  is  the  guest  of  honor  where- 
ever  she  is  invited,  and  at  dinners,  or  wherever 
formal  refreshments  are  served,  she  is  taken  in 
by  her  host.  Naturally,  a  great  deal  depends 
on  the  size  of  the  locality,  for  it  would  be  ob- 
viously impossible,  in  cities  where  brides  are 
practically  an  everyday  occurrence,  to  give 
them  much  more  than  passing  recognition.  In 
smaller  towns  the  reigning  iieriod  of  u  bride 


WEDDINGS  295 


may  be  for  auy  length  of  lime  up  to  three 
months.  On  the  conclusion  of  the  houejTiioou 
the  bride  is  expected  to  issue  invitations  for 
certain  reception  days  to  enable  her  friends  to 
call  and  see  her,  and  for  which  only  the  cup  that 
cheers,  etc.,  will  be  necessary.  Reciprocal  cour- 
tesies are  not  demanded  to  the  thousand  and 
one  little  social  attentions  showered  upon  a 
young  bride. 

BBIDAL  PRESENTS 

The  bride-elect  will  almost  invariably  find 
herself  the  recipient  of  presents  or  wedding 
gifts  of  one  thing  or  another,  and  she  must  be 
quick  to  acknowledge  their  receipt.  Under 
none  but  the  most  compelling  circumstances 
must  she  give  this  task  to  another.  A  grace- 
fully worded  note  of  thanks  sent  personally  is 
what  is  required,  utterly  regardless  of  the  value 
of  the  gift  or  the  social  standing  of  the  giver. 
Some  such  outline  as  follows  might  be  used: 

40  Astor  Place, 

May  27,  1904. 
Deae  Mks.  Liebling  : 

Please  acK^ept  my  warmest  thanks  for  the 
handsome  dishes  that  have  just  arrived.  Be- 
lieve me,  of  all  my  presents,  none  are  more  ad- 


296  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

mired  or  highly  prized  than  yours.    I  hope  and 
expect  to  see  you  on  my  wedding-day. 
Very  sincerely  yours, 

Maby  Pbeston. 

Another  form,  the  wording  of  which  will  in- 
dicate to  the  reader  the  circumstances  for  which 
it  would  be  used,  is  as  follows : 

The  Elms, 
September  20,  1905. 
Deab  Mr.  Mooee  : 

Your  exquisite  little  gift  has  arrived,  and  1 
cannot  tell  you  how  delighted  I  am  at  the  evi- 
dence of  remembrance  from  one  so  far  away. 
Also,  please  accept  my  sincere  thanks  for  your 
good  wishes  for  my  future. 
Again  thanking  you,  believe  me  to  be  yours, 
Veea  E.  Lovett. 

A  practice  which  in  many  instances  is  far 
more  useful  than  any  gift  of  silver  plate  is  for 
the  near  relatives  of  the  young  couple  to  send 
their  present  in  the  form  of  a  check.  This,  of 
course,  more  especially  refers  to  the  father  of 
the  bride  or  bridegroom,  but  it  might  with 
equally  good  taste  be  true  of  any  other  near 
relative.  For  any  one  else  to  send  a  check 
would  be  intolerably  bad  form,  always  except- 
ing  circumstances   regarding  which   only   the 


WEDDINGS  297 


young  couple  themselves  are  competent  to 
decide.  So  far  as  displaying  the  wedding-gifts 
is  concerned,  custom  differs.  In  the  country 
they  are  more  often  than  not  on  exhibition  on 
the  day  of  the  wedding  and  during  the  recep- 
tion, for  the  simple  reason  that  there  is  usually 
no  opportunity  for  showing  them  before  the 
wedding.  The  gifts  are  displayed  in  a  room 
set  apart  for  that  purpose,  every  article  being 
distinguished  by  the  card  of  its  donor.  If  it 
is  a  town  wedding,  the  gifts  will  be  on  view 
some  afternoon  two  or  three  days  before  the 
wedding.  Usually  the  mother  of  the  bride 
sends  out  brief  invitations  on  her  visiting  cards, 
asking  in  the  friends  and  relatives  and  espe- 
cially those  who  have  sent  the  presents.  Occa- 
sionally the  donor's  cards  are  turned  face  down 
by  the  side  of  the  gift,  and  the  number  only  of 
the  gift  is  displayed,  in  which  case  there  will 
quite  naturally  not  be  any  further  exhibition. 
Superstitious  brides  do  not  like  to  receive  pres- 
ents marked  with  their  future  name  or  initials, 
as  this  is  regarded  as  a  very  unlucky  omen. 

THE  BEIDEGROOM 

Most  of  the  duties  and  privileges  of  the  bride- 
groom have  been  already  related,  but  it  remains 
to  be  added  that  the  genuinely  considerate 
bridegroom  will  make  every  allowance  for  the 


298  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

preoccupation  of  his  bride-to-be  during  the 
busy  days  that  precede  the  marriage.  On  the 
wedding-day  he  must  deny  himself  the  pleasure 
of  seeing  her  until  he  meets  her  at  the  altar,  or 
before  the  officiating  clergyman.  If  the  wed- 
ding is  at  twelve  o'clock,  the  best  plan  will  be 
for  him  to  breakfast  with  his  best  man  and 
drive  with  him  to  the  church,  or,  if  the  hour  is 
later  in  the  afternoon,  they  could  take  luncheon 
together.  He  will  make  sure  that  the  grooms- 
man has  the  ring  and  fee,  and  that  every  pos- 
sible detail  has  been  attended  to.  If  it  is  a 
house  wedding  the  two  men  will  arrive  at  the 
house  at  least  fifteen  minutes  in  advance  of  the 
ceremony,  and  go  at  once  to  the  room  set  apart 
for  them.  After  the  bride  has  gone  to  her 
room  to  change  her  dress,  the  groom  hastens 
to  exchange  his  wedding  garments  for  his  trav- 
elling suit.  Just  a  word  of  parting  advice. 
The  sensible,  well-poised  man  will  not  permit 
himself  to  be  carried  away  by  the  excitement  of 
the  occasion,  but  will  insist  that,  so  far  as  he  is 
concerned  at  least,  there  shall  not  be  any  dis- 
play of  extravagance  or  elaborateness  of  ex- 
pense that  would  be  inconsistent  with  his  finan- 
cial or  Kocial  status,  or  that  would  be  burden- 
some to  him  to  maintain. 


WEDDINGS  299 


THE  WEDDING  BREAKFAST 

The  wedding  breakfast  is  not  usually  under- 
taken except  by  people  of  large  means  and 
ample  house  accommodations.  If  it  is  given  at 
all,  the  list  of  invited  guests  will  be  closely 
limited  to  the  relatives  and  particular  friends 
of  the  two  families.    Music  will  be  supplied. 

Men-servants  in  evening  livery  will  look  after 
tlie  wants  of  the  guests.  A  special  table,  elab- 
orately decorated  and  served,  will  be  set  apart 
for  the  bridal  party,  but,  with  this  sole  excep- 
tion, all  the  tables  are  open  to  whoever  claims 
them.  The  affair  is  informal  to  the  extent  that 
no  order  of  precedence  is  observed  in  the  matter 
of  location  or  service.  The  bridal  party  does 
not  enter  the  breakfast  room  until  all  the 
guests  are  assembled,  after  which  the  procession 
to  the  feast  is  formed,  the  bridal  couple  lead- 
ing, followed  by  the  ushers  and  maids  of  honor, 
the  bride's  father  with  the  groom's  mother,  or 
nearest  female  relative,  and  finally,  the  guests 
in  general.  The  hostess,  of  necessity,  will  be 
last,  for  it  is  her  duty  to  see  that  no  woman  is 
without  an  escort.  The  breakfast  differs  from 
the  dinner  in  the  matter  of  escorting  the  lady, 
seeing  that  she  does  not  take  the  arm  of  her 
escort.  When  the  bride  cuts  the  cake,  the 
guests  at  the  bridal  table  are  served  first,  al- 


loo  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

though  this  is  rarely  done  at  a  breakfast,  the 
little  boxes  already  described  and  served  in  the 
hall  answering  the  necessary  purpose.  When 
a  wedding  takes  place  before  two  o'clock, 
luncheon  follows  as  a  matter  of  course.  After 
that  hour  it  would  be  followed  by  a  reception 
tea. 

THE   WEDDING  LUNCHEON 

is  usually  a  sitting-down  affair.  During  the 
summer  months  a  cold  luncheon  is  invariably 
given,  the  dishes,  etc.,  being  handed  by  servants. 
Chicken  and  lobster  in  mayonnaise  and  aspic; 
oysters  in  various  ways ;  salads  of  all  kinds — 
fish,  fowl,  and  fruit;  tongue  and  choice  ham; 
sandwiches  and  hot  rolls;  creams,  jellies,  ices, 
elaborate  confectionery,  and  wedding  cake. 

Champagne  or  iced  cup  is  supposed  to  go 
with  any  of  the  before-mentioned  dainties  bet- 
ter than  chocolate  or  coffee,  and  thus  the  guests 
usually  commence  with  champagne  and  con- 
clude with  coffee  later  on.  If  possible,  it  will 
be  far  nicer  to  set  apart  another  room  for  the 
chocolate  and  coffee,  ices,  etc.;  otherwise  they 
would  be  served  at  a  separate  table  in  the 
luncheon  room. 


CORRESPONDENCE 

The  het/note  of  successful  letter-ivriting  is 
sincerity,  and  in  this  age  of  hurry  one  may  al- 
most say  that  the  second  greatest  virtue  in  a 
correspondent  is  brevity.  At  the  same  time  a 
certain  amount  of  punctiliousness  is  called  for 
in  our  communications  to  strangers,  nor  should 
the  barriers  of  a  proper  reserve  and  dignity  be 
altogether  forgotten  in  the  offhand  letters  one 
writes  daily  to  familiar  friends. 

There  is  an  etiquette  of  correspondence  just 
as  inflexible  as  is  the  etiquette  of  the  dinner 
table  or  of  any  social  function.  To  betray  a 
lack  of  knowledge  of  what  is  correct  in  this  par- 
ticular is  to  commit  the  unpardonable  sin  and 
to  invite  social  ostracism.  As  in  all  things 
else,  changes  are  continually  occurring  in  re- 
gard to  the  styles  of  stationery  used,  methods 
of  expression,  and  general  style  of  composi- 
tion. Letters  written  half  a  century  ago  have 
a  stiffness  and  formality  which  would  seem  en- 
tirely out  of  place  in  the  present  age.  The 
more  naturally  one  expresses  one's  self  the 
more  attractive  epistolary  correspondence  is 
apt  to  prove.  An  easy  and  graceful  style  in 
30t 


302  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

writing  is  sometimes  instinctive,  but  more  often 
is  the  result  of  careful  and  elaborate  i>ractice. 

The  sins  of  commission  being  more  important 
than  the  sins  of  omission  in  this  direction,  at- 
tention shoiald  be  directed  to  the  following  im 
proprieties  often  committed  by  the  careless  or 
illiterate  writer. 

Do  not  use  slang.  Omit  foreign  words  and 
phrases— they  savor  of  affectation.  "  Don't  " 
and  "  reckoned  "  are  not  considered  elegant 
English.  "  Got  "  is  without  the  pale.  Culti- 
vate your  best  style  of  penmanship,  as  it  is  no 
longer  considered  aristocratic  to  scrawl.  See 
that  your  stationery  is  both  neat  and  clean.  Be 
careful  not  to  mix  up  ' '  who  ' '  and  ' '  whom. ' ' 
This  is  an  error  so  common  with  correspond- 
ents that  reference  to  it  seems  to  be  indisi)en- 
sable.  "  Who  "  is  the  nominative,  and 
"  whom  "  tbe  objective  form.  "  To  whom 
have  you  sent  the  money?  " — not  "  Who  have 
you  sent  the  money  to?  "  "  Who  do  men  say 
that  I  am?  "  is  correct,  because  the  nominative 
is  used  after  the  verb  "  to  be."  Never  use  the 
"  and  "  sign  in  a  letter,  but  always  write  the 
word  out.  Never  close  the  letter  with  "  Yours, 
etc."  It  is  bad  form.  Be  courteous  in  writing 
as  you  would  in  speech.  Attempt  no  I'hetorical 
display  in  a  simple  letter;  reserve  it  for  your 
essays.    To  write  "  very  truly  "  or  "  very  siu- 


CORRESPONDENCE 


303 


cerely  "  without  the  addition  of  "  yours  "  sug- 
gests a  lack  of  good  breeding  as  well  as  defec- 
tive education.     The  "yours"   should  come 

last. 

Stationery.— It  is  quite  customary  nowadays 
to  be  particular  about  one's  stationery,  and,  on 
the  part  of  many,  to  make  it  as  characteristic 
as  possible  of  the  owner.    Where  the  crest  or 
monogram   is   not  used,   the   street,    club,   or 
country-place  address  is  printed  either  in  Ger- 
man or  old  English  text,  or  in  a  simple  and 
clear  type    conspicuous  only  for  its  neatness. 
Many  of  the  most  particular  persons  adhere 
rigidly  to  plain  white  paper,  usually  preferring 
the  Belfast  linen,  than  which  scarcely  anything 
can  be  found  more  conformable  to  the  rules  of 
good  taste.    Where  colors  are  used  they  should 
in  all  cases  be  of  the  "  invisible  "  or  subdued 
tints,  under  which  conditions  certain  shades  of 
gray'  blue,  and  lavender,  even  salmon,  are  per- 
missible.   Anything  glaring  in  the  way  of  color 
should  be  strictly  tabooed.    The  pure,  unwoven 
linen  paper,  resembling  parchment,  is  much  in 
favor.    French  papers  of  light  weight  and  over- 
land mail  are  used  for  foreign  letters. 

The  Use  of  Family  Crests  is  daily  becoming 
more  popular  in  this  country.  Monograms 
also  are  used  to  a  certain  extent.  There  is  no 
excuse  for  a  vulgar  display  of  either  crest  or 


304  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

monogram.     If  one  or  the  other  be  used,  it 
should  be  small  and  of  inconspicuous  color. 

Women  as  a  rule  are  apt  to  run  to  more  ex- 
travagance in  their  stationery  than  men,  but 
they  should  guard  themselves  carefully  against 
bizarre  effects,  which  only  afford  ground  for 
criticism  from  persons  of  taste. 

For  the  country  house  or  club  there  is  often, 
in  addition  to  the  engraved  name  and  initials, 
the  address  of  the  nearest  post  office,  express 
office,  and  telephone  station.  It  is  also  cus- 
tomary to  have  the  writing  paper  for  private 
yachts  and  important  camps  stamped  with  a 
design  illustrative  of  the  quarters  occupied. 
Sometimes  a  pretty  motto,  with  the  name  of  the 
boat  or  camp,  is  substituted. 

It  should  be  superfluous  to  have  to  state  that 
a  gentleman  will  not  use  his  business  stationery 
for  social  correspondence.  Members  of  clubs 
usually  find  a  supply  of  stationery  at  their  dis- 
posal which  it  is  correct  to  use  for  answering 
social  letters.  Letter  paper  should  never  be 
ruled,  and  should  be  of  a  size  to  fold  once  into 
the  envelope.  Occasionally  the  monogram, 
crest,  or  address  is  printed  on  the  flap  of  the 
envelope,  and  there  is  no  objection  to  this  from 
the  point  of  good  taste. 

The  Stationeyji  uscil  hi/  Persons  in  Mourning 
is  no  longer  regulated  by  an  elaborate  system 


CORRESPONDENCE  305 

of  different  depths  of  border,  a  medium  depth 
matching  that  on  the  cards  used  by  widow, 
orphan,  or  other  bereaved  blood  relative  being 
considered  correct  form.  This  black-edged 
paper  is  used  as  long  as  mourning  is  worn. 
The  same  rule  applies  to  the  stationery  of  a 
widower  as  to  that  of  a  widow,  or  any  close 
relative.  Addresses,  monograms,  or  crests  on 
mourning  stationery  are  necessarily  printed  or 
embossed  in  black. 

The  Use  of  Postal  Cards  for  purposes  of 
social  communication  is  not  by  any  means  sig- 
nificant of  good  taste,  except  when  used  for  the 
most  impersonal  purposes.  Postal  cards  may 
be  utilized  for  the  announcements  of  meetings 
of  committees  and  societies,  or  the  terse  con- 
veyance of  some  trivial  intimation,  but  to  make 
them  the  vehicle  for  the  expression  of  private 
affairs  is  inexcusable.  "Whenever  used,  the  cus- 
tomary "  My  Dear  "  is  omitted  and  the  initials 
merely  used  as  a  signature,  or  the  initials  of 
first  names,  with  surname  in  full. 

It  was  formerly  fashionable  to  use  the  Third 
Person  in  all  formal  correspondence  with 
tradesmen,  servants,  and  with  persons  who 
were  strangers.  It  was  also  used  where  espe- 
cial stiffness  was  desired  between  equals,  to  em- 
phasize some  animosity  prevailing  between  the 
correspondents.    The  custom  has  become  al- 


306  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

most  obsolete  now  among  persons  of  refine- 
ment, and  only  antiquated  individuals  attempt 
such  starchy  commencements  as  "  Mrs.  Jordan 
Jones  presents  her  compliments  and  begs  to 
ask,"  etc. 

The  new  style  is  altogether  more  pleasing 
and  amiable.  Mrs.  Jordan  Jones,  in  address- 
ing an  equal  either  in  regard  to  club  matters, 
servant's  references,  or  whatever  it  may  be, 
commences  with  the  much  raoi'e  natural  '*  Dear 
Madam."  In  addressing  a  tradesman  whom  she 
regularly  patronizes,  Mrs.  Jones  commences 
"  My  Dear  Mr.  Colfax,"  her  third-person  form 
being  used  only  in  cases  of  strange  tradesmen 
or  firms,  in  addressing  whom  she  may  correctly 
say,  "  Mrs.  Jordan  Jones  presents  her  compli- 
ments, and  begs  to  enquire  if  the  carriage  or- 
dered by  her  is  ready  for  shipment?  " 

To  Commence  a  Note  or  Letter  according  to 
the  American  form,  if  one  wishes  to  be  rather 
formal,  it  is  customary  to  start  with  "  My  Dear 
Mr.  Jardine,"  but  where  one  is  more  intimate 
"  Dear  Mr.  Jardine  "  would  be  substituted. 
The  "  My  "  should  be  dropped  by  the  lady  first 
when  the  correspondence  is  between  members 
of  the  opposite  sexes.  "  Dear  Miss  Pierre- 
pont  "  may  then  with  perfect  propriety  lie  sub- 
stituted for  "  My  Dear  Miss  Pierre] >oiit."  In 
no  case  will  a  man  of  breeding  commence  a  let- 


CORRESPONDENCE 307 

ter  "  Dear  Miss,"  and  where  the  acquaintance 
is  of  a  formal  character,  "  Madam  "  or  "  Dear 
Madam  "  is  the  recognized  form  of  greeting. 
The  Conclusion  of  a  Letter  is  a  matter  upon 
which  one  should  be  precise  and  accurate. 
Favorite  forms  for  ending  friendly  communi- 
cations are:  "Believe  me,  sincerely  yours," 
"  Believe  me,  faithfully  yours,"  and  "  Believe 
me,  cordially  yours."  In  conclusion  one  may 
also  say:  "  I  remain,  dear  Mrs.  Huntley,  with 
kind  regards."  Between  intimates,  "  Affec- 
tionately yours,"  "  Devotedly  yours,"  and 
"  Fondly  yours  "  are  customary  phrasings,  the 
"  Yours  truly  "  or  "  Very  truly  yours  "  being 
used  for  more  formal  correspondence. 

It  is  incorrect  to  use  initials,  surnames,  or 
given  names  only,  and  diminutives  are  inex- 
cusable as  signatures  for  notes  or  letters.  The 
correct  signature  for  a  married  woman  is  "  Jo- 
sephine Black,"  not  "  Mrs.  Josephine  Black," 
to  letters  of  a  social  character.  When  it  is 
necessary  to  convey  to  a  correspondent  the  in- 
formation that  the  writer  is  married,  it  is  ac- 
complished by  writing  "  [Mrs.  Josephine 
Black)  "  underneath  the  regular  signature,  in 
brackets. 

Unmarried  Women,  who  sign  their  names  in 
full,  as  "  Helen  Gray,"  when  desiring  to  inti- 
mate that  they  are  maids  and  not  widows,  may 


308  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

precede  the  name  with  the  word  "  Miss  "  in 
brackets. 

When  writing  on  a  matter  of  business  to  a 
woman  with  whom  his  acquaintance  is  slight,  a 
man  will  conclude,  "  I  am,  my  dear  madam, 
your  obedient  servant."  A  less  stilted  ending 
is  "  Respectfully  yours,"  or  "  Truly  yours." 
The  letter  of  condolence  generally  concludes 
with  "  I  beg  to  remain  yours  to  command." 

Addressing  the  Envelope  is  a  matter  of  some 
discrimination.  Gentlemen  are  addressed  ' '  Jo- 
siah  Thompson,  Esq.,"  a  tradesman's  name 
being  preceded  by  the  more  unpretentious 
"  Mr.,"  while  a  servant  would  be  addressed  as 
plain  "  Jonathan  James."  "  Miss  "  or  "  Mrs." 
invariably  precedes  the  name  of  a  woman.  It  is 
very  bad  form  to  address  a  woman  as  "  Mrs. 
Captain  So-and-So,"  "  Mrs.  Judge  Burton," 
or  "  Mrs.  Doctor  Sayers."  It  is  not  customary 
for  an  American  woman  to  assume  her  hus- 
band's honorary  title.  A  female  practising 
physician  is  addressed  "  Dr.  Emily  Harrison  "; 
social  communications  are  inscribed  "  Miss 
Emily  Harrison  "  or  "  Mrs.  Emily  Harrison." 
A  servant's  letter  is  addressed  "  Mary  Bren- 
nan  "  or  "  John  Thomjjson." 

Simplicity  is  a  growing  feature  of  social  cor- 
respondence, the  heavy,  formal  models  of  a 
generation  ago  having  become  obsolete. 


CORRESPONDENCE  309 


An  invitation  to  a  social  gathering  must  de- 
fine the  nature  of  the  event,  the  time,  and  the 
place.  Such  invitations  are  usually  written  in 
the  third  person,  but  this  has  a  rather  stiff 
effect,  and  if  the  persons  to  meet  are  intimates 
and  the  gathering  small  and  informal,  the  in- 
vitation may  take  the  form  of  a  familiar  letter 
or  even  be  given  verbally. 

TO  ADDKESS  PERSONS  OF  DISTINCTION 

In  addressing  the  President  of  the  United 
States,  an  official  letter  should  commence 
"  Sir,"  and  conclude  "  I  have  the  honor  to 
remain  your  most  obedient  servant."  A  social 
letter  to  the  Chief  Executive  commences  "  My 
Dear  Mr.  President,"  and  concludes  "  I  have 
the  honor  to  remain  most  respectfully  yours." 
The  envelope  should  be  addressed  "  His  Ex- 
cellency, President  Theodore  Eoosevelt." 

To  address  the  Vice-President,  an  official  let- 
ter should  begin  "  Sir,"  or  "  Dear  Sir,"  con- 
cluding "  I  have,  Sir,  the  honor  to  remain  your 
most  obedient  servant."  Or  a  social  letter, 
"  My  Dear  Mr.  C,"  with  conclusion  as  to  the 
President.  The  address  may  be  preceded  by 
"  His  Excellency,"  following  which  comes 
"  The  Vice-President,  E.  J.  Davis." 

An  official  letter  to  a  Justice  of  the  Supretne 
Court  is  couched  in  the  same  phraseology  as 


3J0  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 


one  to  the  Vice-President,  and  a  social  letter 
commences  *'  Dear  Mr.  Justice  Hanlon,"  con- 
cluding "  Believe  me  truly  (or  sincerely) 
yours."  The  envelope  is  addressed  "  Mr. 
Justice  C.  H.  Hanlon." 

A  Senator  is  officially  addressed  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  Vice-President,  a  social  letter  to 
the  same  commencing  "  My  Dear  Senator 
Jones,"  and  ending  as  one  to  a  justice.  The 
envelope  should  be  inscribed  "  Senator  John 
Jones,"  or  "  To  the  Honorable  John  Jones." 

A  Member  of  the  House  of  Representatives 
is  similarly  addressed.  Social  communications 
should  commence  "  My  Dear  Mr.  Johnson," 
ending  as  to  a  justice,  the  envelope  being  in- 
scribed "  Honorable  James  Johnson." 

An  official  communication  to  a  Member  of  the 
Cabinet  has  a  similar  commencement  and  con- 
clusion as  one  to  a  vice-president,  the  beginning 
and  ending  of  a  social  letter  duplicating  one  to 
a  member  of  the  House.  The  envelope  should 
be  inscribed  "  Honorable  Randolph  P.  Max- 
well, Secretary  of  the  Treasury." 

The  term  "  Honorable  "  is  prefixed  to  the 
address  of  judges,  mayors,  senators,  repre- 
sentatives, and  others  distinguished  in  public 
life,  even  after  their  terms  of  office  have  ex- 
pired. 

All  Armij  Officers  above  the  gi-ado  of  Lieu- 


CORRESPONDENCE  3U 


tenant  should  be  addressed  by  their  specific 
title  and  rank.     To  illustrate: 

General  Henry  C.  Corbin, 
Adjutant-General, 

United  States  Army. 

"  Sir  "  is  an  official  form  of  address,  "  My 
Dear  General,"  following  the  title,  for  an  in- 
formal note  or  one  of  intimacy.  Titles  should 
never  be  abbreviated,  as,  for  instance,  "  My 
Dear  Genl.,"  for  Assistant  AdJTitant-CTeneral. 
The  address  should  always  indicate  when 
officers  are  in  command,  as,  "  To  Major-Gen- 
eral  Henry  A.  Corbin,  Commanding  Officer," 
or,  "  Commanding  the  Army  of  the  U.  S.,"  or, 
"  Commander-in-Chief,  Army  of  the  IJuited 
States,  Washington,  D.  C." 

A  custom  has  been  established  by  the  War 
Office  by  which  the  office  is  addressed  instead 
of  the  individual :  "  To  the  General  in  command 
of  the  Army  of  the  United  States,"  etc. 

Army  officers  holding  geographical  depart- 
ments are  addressed  "  The  Commanding  Officer 
26th  U.  S.  Infantry  "— not  "  Colonel  command- 
ing 26th  U.  S.  Infantry."  This  would  be  the 
army  form  with  name  omitted:  "  Asst.  Adju- 
tant-General, 3rd  Brigade,  2nd  Division, 
Tampa,  Florida." 


312  THE  MODERN  HOSTESS 

A  similar  rule  prevails  with  any  officer  in 
command — a  major,  colonel,  captain,  or  lieu- 
tenant. Non-commissioned  officers  in  the  vol- 
unteer army  retain  their  titles  even  when  no 
longer  under  military  discipline. 

The  Rule  in  the  Navy  is  that  all  grades  of 
rank  under  that  of  commander  are  addressed 
by  the  title  of  the  grade,  or  by  the  simple  term 
"  Mr.,"  with  the  initials  "  U.  S.  N."  after  the 
surname. 

Clerical  Titles  vary  slightly  according  to  the 
form  of  church  government,  and  also  with  the 
order  of  degree. 

The  following  are  the  forms  of  address  and 
salutation  for  each  of  the  leading  churches : 

Archbishop  (Anglican):  "My  Lord,"  or 
"  My  Lord  Archbishop."  "  May  it  please 
Your  Grace."  "  To  His  Grace  the  Lord  Arch- 
bishop." 

Archbishop  (Roman  Catholic):  "  Most  Rev- 
erend and  Respected  Sir,"  or  "  Most  Reverend 
and  Dear  Sir."  "  To  the  Most  Reverend  Arch- 
bishop Chatteris,  Archbishop  of  Ely." 

A  Bishop  (Protestant  or  Roman  Catholic) : 
"  Right  Reverend  and  Dear  Sir."  "  To  the 
Right  Reverend  Bishop  of  Ely. ' ' 

The  word  "  Venerable  "  is  placed  before  the 
name  of  an  Archdeacon:  "  The  Venerable 
Baldwin  Grey,  Archdeacon  of  Sudbury." 


