por. 


M 
ry 
} 


oy wd 





Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2021 with funding trom 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


https://archive.org/details/cookingwithcarynOOunse 


with the 


CARY HIGH SCHOOL BAND 





Published By: 
CARY BAND BOOSTERS 


Printed By: 


SPARKS PRESS 
115 Harrison Avenue 
Raleigh, N. C. 27603 


June 15, 1974 


COVER: Jimmy C. Burns, Director of Bands, is shown with 
stature of a chef. Picture taken in Switzerland. 


Expression of Appreciation 


We wish to express our appreciation to all who furnished recipes for 
this cookbook and to the students, faculty members and Band Booster 
members who assisted in the sale of this book. 


Cookbook Committee: Roberta Sanford, Millie Waller, Madge Collier, 


Dot Robinson, Jean Chase, Susan Tandy, Ruth Monroe, Virginia Pernell, 
Sue Kimbrough. 


The CARY HIGH SCHOOL BAND, under the direction of Jimmy C. Burns, will represent the 
United States in August, 1974, at the Fete de Geneve in Geneva, Switizerland. Having played 
in such events as the Tournament of Roses parade, Orange Bowl, the Presidential Inauguration 


and the U.S. — Soviet Tract Meet, the Band feel confident that it will be a good-will team as 
it appears in this festival of music. 


Much credit for the success of this BAND must go to the hard work of the Director, the mem- 
bers of the band, the parents of each student, the efforts of all the Cary Band Boosters with 


Koka Booth as its president until 1974 and all friends of the bands, both donors and those 
who just plain worked hard to help the Band achieve these successes. 


% 


HOW TO MAKE A GOOD BAND MEMBER 


To turn out a fine specimen of a Band Member, place the raw 
material, when young, in the Beginning Band. Let it rise through 
the successive stages of Junior Band. Mix together a teaspoon of 
parades and one tablespoon of concerts. Let mixture rise to 
Senior High Band. Add to this mixture one cup of concerts, two 
cups of parades, a dash of travel, a pinch of Cary Band Day and a 
recording session to taste. Leven with the joyful experiences en- 
countered in these stages. No good band member is cracked, 


crusty, sad or hard boiled. 
Mrs. Cloy Wells 


SPARKS PRESS, Cookbook Publishers 


Staff: Elizabeth Sparks, Composer; Ann = . 
Lee, Recipe Editor; Robert Jordan, Charles 


Stiles, Production Coordinators. 


i 


Equivalents 


3 teaspoons 


1 tablespoon 


4 tablespoons = 1/4 cup 
5 1/3 tablespoons = 1/3 cup 
8 tablespoons = 1/2 cup 
10 2/3 tablespoons = 2/3 cup 
12 tablespoons = 3/4 cup 
16 tablespoons = | cup 
1 cup = 1/2 pint 

2 cups = | pint 

4 cups = | quart 

4 quarts = 1 gallon 

8 quarts = 1 peck 

4 pecks = 1] bushel 

16 ounces = | pound 

32 ounces = | quart 

8 ounces liquid = 1! cup 


1 ounce liquid = 


2 tablespoons 


1 1/4 cups or 10 ounces 


cups or 16 ounces 


1/2 cups or 20 ounces 
1/2 cups or 28 ounce 





Abbreviations 
c: = cup 
tsp. = teaspoon 
T. = tablespoon 
Dias e opin 
qt. = quart 
oz. = ounce 
lb. = pound 
pkg. = package 
env. = envelope 
ign = stlaree 
med. = medium 

Size of Cans 

8 ounces = | cup 
Picnic = 
No. | = 2 
No. 2 = 2 
No. 2:12) ee 
No. 3 ye 
No.10 ="13 


». cups or 32:6 ces 






cups or 6*pownd 


Weights and Measures 


Baking powder 
lye: = 5 1/2/02. 


Cheese, American 
1 Ib. = 2 2/3 c. cubed 


1 lb. = 5c. grated 
Cocoa 

1 lb. =4c. 
Coffee 

1 lb. =Sc. 
Corn meal 

lelb = Sac: 
Cornstarch 

llb.=3c. 


Cracker crumbs 
23 soda crackers = | c. 
10-15 graham crackers = | c. 


Eggs 
1 egg = 4 T. liquid 
4-5 whole eggs = I c. 
7-9 egg whites = I c. 
12-14 yolks = Ic. 


Flour 
1 lb. all-purpose 
1] Ib. cake flour 
Lemon juice 
I medium = 2-3T. 
5-8 medium = | c. 


= 4¢. 
= 41/2 ¢. 


Lemon rind 
1 lemon = | T. grated 


Orange juice 
1 medium = 2-3 T. 
3-4 medium = | c. 


Orange rind 
| = 2 T. grated 


Gelatin 
3 1/4 oz. pkg. flavored = 1/2 c. 
1/4 oz. pkg. unflavored = 1 T. 


Shortening or butter 
1 lb. =2c. 
1/2 c. = 1/4 lb. = 1 stick 
2.1. = §0z. 


Sugar 
1 Ib. brown = 2 1/2 c. (or 
21/4 c., firmly packed) 
1 Ib. granulated = 2 c. 
1 lb. powdered =3 1/2 c. 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


TeAPECSsION Of ADPreCiatlONge. Sigh la o.d-5 SURNE Moyo ceca ain ne 2 
mow Lo Make A Good’ Band Member. vijcccccsness cpt «gee cece cee ess 3 
RRR LCNIE NS cag: sk nly) st ck ayers Se sas evra en ee nam ae 4 
PMO Ninel ies, 5 Suaxy. sv o 209 exotl. awlno.ous adtdat.cwied wit« 6 
(ECS DED daira cap iB area nat verge Naeem, “ORs onan a Z 
RRC ee asics ee eT. ose CRMs ce asai et ctn oe Seg 15 
See SGIICS. NCIISHES ANG OALCES..... claire ete « mers sc) oe teeties 3 19 
Pei ae OUIPDOSTIONS.. Loco cere eee ee eae ee Coe meee Mee 24 
moma vesyrt2. S29ReS. JW. eYOO 2 TE, DE. D, FEL PPAOK, OF 25 
PEERS 2h, oS eR ie Re cee ys so Net a sc PMs Seay ee 2° 
i, Mie RNS See extopamr ii eernea at (Si het <5. Cle. tenn Sine ry 31 
Sl 5, ee Se gatas: maar a See ye EE B.S IR Re RRS f 37 
IEEE tee ct. mn w erat a ie fae ag 8 ce olen 43 
ey ew Bios oi a(n! hele’ a gE so seein, 5 Se ae eee ee ee ae 47 
On Ee SORE EARP > cen tee mpreer 6% Semen SOUR ae ee, 
‘ETE Ay ge ee Se PD ee iges S. SAME RR ieee 2 AION Ln ae a ct 67 
Pieste aeterts & DoT NL SA. Rae Ceo) EON. Se 8 87 
Pameen aCe MOU sags cn cient te ete etal sare area Te ow ke © Fal Seen ty clave 94 
COR CS oe. he cores eae Sciatic Saat ee eek rk NCEE ES taal Eck 25 
oo Cute ered: Cakes tte cuatere tram nk moaruenn ct an ea orerane te tenete ts 114 
BGOKING EOL A tO WO reece te ces re ae rhe eae ee 115 


BAKING 


When making a cake always add 2 tablespoons of boiling water to the butter 
and sugar mixture. This makes a fine textured cake. 


To keep cookies fresh and crisp in the jar, place a crumpled tissue paper in 
the bottom. 


Shortly before taking cup cakes from the oven, place a marshmallow on each 
for the frosting. 


Put cream or milk on top of two-crust pies for a nice brown pie. 
Keeping Cake Fresh: To keep a loaf or layer cake fresh after it has been cut, 
wrap a large slice of fresh bread in with it before putting it away. The bread 


will dry out but the cake will remain moist. 


If the bottom layer of pie crust is covered with cracker crumbs, the juice 
from blueberries or apples will not ooze out. 


To cut a fresh cake use a wet knife. 


Set pies and cobblers on a rack to cool and the bottom crust will not be 
soggy. 


When icing a cake, the icing will not run off if a little flour is dusted on the 
surface of the cake. 


For flakier pie crust add a teaspoon of vinegar to the cold water in preparing 
your pie dough. 


For a nice decoration on white frosting, shave colored gum-drops very thin 
and stick on. They will curl like little roses. 


Stir a half package of chocolate chips into your seven-minute frosting while 
it is still hot. It will turn out creamy and taste wonderful. 





DATE SQUARES 


1 cup dates, chopped 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1/2 cup water 1 1/2 cups flour 

6 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup sugar 1 cup brown sugar 

2 egg yolks 


Mix dates and water; cook until soft. Cream butter, sugar, egg yolks. Add 
vanilla, flour, baking powder. Mix well. Pat batter mix into pan. Spread 
with cooked chopped dates. Cover with beaten egg whites to which brown 
sugar has been added. Bake at 300° for 20 minutes. 


Ruth Anne Munro 


PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES 

1/2 cup soft shortening (half butter) 1 1/4 cups plain flour 

1/2 cup peanut butter 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
1/2 cup granulated sugar (packed) 3/4 teaspoon soda 

1 egg 1/4 teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup brown sugar 


Mix shortening, peanut butter, sugars and egg thoroughly. Measure flour 
by dip-level-pour method. Blend ali dry ingredients, stir in. Chill. Heat 
oven to 375”. Roll into balls size of large walnuts. Place 3” apart on 
lightly greased baking sheet. Flatten with fork dipped in flour — criss- 
cross. Bake 10 to 12 minutes. Makes 3 dozen. 


Cathy Segner 
LECKWAR BARS 
1/2 lb. butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 1/3 cups confectioners sugar 3 cups sifted flour 
2 eggs (beaten) 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs and blend; add sifted flour and baking 
powder. Divide dough 1/3 and 2/3. Wrap each in wax paper. Place 1/3 in 
freezer; place 2/3 in refrigerator four hours or overnight. Press 2/3 in 
greased jelly roll pan. Spread filling (preserves, pie filling, prunes, etc.) 
Grate 1/3 on top. Bake at 350° for 25 to 30 minutes. We like the apricot 
preserves best. Use at least 1/4 pound of butter; otherwise it is too sticky. 


Gen Molnar 


SOFT SUGAR COOKIES (Sour Cream) 


1/2 cup butter or oleo 3 cups flour 

1 1/2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon vanilla 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 


1 cup dairy sour cream 


Cream butter to consistency of mayonnaise; add sugar gradually. Add eggs 
one at a time — beating well after each. Add vanilla. Mix and sift dry in- 
gredients. Add to creamed mixture alternately with sour cream beginning 
and ending with dry ingredients. Drop by teaspoons on well greased sheets 
well apart. Flatten with spatula. Sprinkle with cinnamon sugar. Bake 
375° for 10 to 12 minutes. 

Chocolate — Add 2 ounces unsweetened chocolate melted and cooled to 
creamed mixture. 

Raisin — Add 1 cup of seedless raisins to creamed mixture. 


Gen Molnar 
PECAN TAFFIES 
3/4 stick oleo or butter 1 cup sifted flour 
3 oz. package cream cheese 1/4 teaspoon salt 


Cream oleo and cheese. Add flour and salt. Divide dough in halves, then 
into fourths. Each fourth makes six taffies in small tins. 


Filling 
3/4 cup dark brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 egg, beaten 1/2 cup finely chopped pecans 


2 tablespoons oleo 


Grease small muffin tins. Press in balls of pastry for crust. Fill with filling. 
Bake 30 minutes at 350°. Don’t overbake! 


Dot Robinson 


SKILLET COOKIES 

1 cup white sugar 1/2 cup chopped nuts 

1 1/2 cups chopped dates (1 small pinch of salt 
package) 2 cups Rice Krispies 

2 eggs 


Place sugar, dates, and eggs in lightly greased frying pan. Simmer on low 
heat for 8 or 9 minutes — stirring constantly. Add nuts, salt and Rice 
Krispies. Stir together. Remove from fire and form into small balls. Roll 


in coconut. 
Martha Garmon 


TEXAS LIZZIES 


1/2 lb. butter 1/2 lb. candied cherries 
2 cups dark brown sugar 1/2 Ib. candied pineapple 
4 eggs (well beaten) 1 cup whiskey 
3/4 Ib. English walnuts, or 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 1/2 lbs. black walnuts 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
3/4 Ib. pecans 3 cups flour 
3/4 lb. black raisins (seedless) 3 scant teaspoons soda 


3/4 Ib. white raisins 


Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten eggs and then add whiskey 
slowly. 

Add flour, soda, fruit and nuts. Work well with hands. Chill overnight. 
Drop from spoon two inches apart on cooking sheet. Bake in 350° oven 
about 20 minutes or until done. Keeps well in refrigerator for a month. 
Bake all or store in refrigerator and bake as needed. 


Blanche Booth 


CHOCOLATE CHA CHA’S 


2 cups sugar 
1/4 cup cocoa 
1/2 cup milk 


Mix together. Boil one minute. Remove from heat. 


1 stick oleo 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1/3 cup peanut butter 1/2 cup nuts 
2 cups uncooked oats 


Add of these ingredients to first mixture. Mix well. Pour by teaspoons onto 
wax paper. Allow to cool thoroughly before storing. 


Madge Collier 
SAUCEPAN COOKIES 
1 cup light corn syrup 1 1/2 cups peanut butter 
1 cup sugar 4 cups cereal flakes 


Mix corn syrup and sugar in a medium saucepan. Bring the mixture to a 
full boil. Remove from the heat and stir in the peanut butter and cereal 
flakes. Mix well. Drop heaping teaspoonfuls onto a buttered baking sheet. 
Allow to cool before removing, Makes 48 cookies. 


Barbara Lou Allen 


10 


SWEET MARIE BARS 


1/2 cup brown sugar 1 tablespoon melted butter 
1/2 cup peanut butter 2 cups Rice Krispies 
1/2 cup corn syrup 


Put sugar, butter and syrup in pan over medium heat and stir until smooth 
and sugar is dissolved. Remove from stove and add melted butter and 
Rice Krispies. Press into a buttered pan and cool in refrigerator. 


Ruth Marie Munro 
BROWNIES 
2/3 cup sifted all-purpose flour 1 cup sugar 
1/2 teaspoon baking powder 2 eggs, well beaten 
1/4 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup broken walnut meats 
1/3 cup butter or other shortening 1 teaspoon vanilla 


2 squares unsweetened chocolate 


Set oven for moderate heat (350°). Grease an 8 x 8 x 2 inch pan. Sift 
flour once; measure, add baking powder and salt. Sift again. Melt choco- 
late and shortening over hot water. Add sugar gradually to eggs, beating 
thoroughly. Add chocolate mixture and blend. Add flour and mix well; 
then mix in nuts and vanilla. Spread in greased pan. Bake in preheated 
oven 25 minutes, or until done. Cool in pan, then cut into squares or rec- 
tangles. Makes about 2 dozen brownies. 

Mrs. Don W. Casper 


BLONDE BROWNIES 

2 2/3 cups sifted flour 2 1/2 cups (1 Ib. box) light 
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder brown sugar 

1/2 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

2/3 cup butter or shortening 1 cup chopped nuts 


1 cup semi-sweet chocolate bits 


Sift flour, baking powder and salt. Melt shortening and add brown sugar. 
Blend well and let cool 10 minutes. Beat in eggs one at a time. Add flour 
mixture. Stir in nuts and chocolate. Put into 10 x 15 greased pan and 
bake in 350° oven for 25 to 30 minutes. May be cut into bars or squares. 
Makes 36 brownies or more. 1 cup raisins may be substituted for either 
nuts or chocolate. 

Edwina Erwin 


11 


GRAMMY’S MOLASSES COOKIES 


1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
3/4 cup shortening almost 3 teaspoons soda 
2/3 cup milk 1/4 teaspoon nutmeg 


about 6 cups unsifted flour 


Cream shortening, molasses and sugar. Add milk alternately with dry in- 
gredients. Roll about 1/4 inch thick. Bake at 400° about 6 minutes. 
Good for gingerbread men. 

Barbara D. Turner 


ORANGE BALLS 
2 3/4 cups crushed vanilla wafers 1 stick margarine softened 
3/4 cup chopped nuts 1 cup powdered sugar 


1/2 can frozen orange juice 


Mix all ingredients. Dust hands with sugar. Roll mixture into 1 inch balls. 


Jay McHuffman 
DELICIOUS TEA CAKES 
2 cups sugar 4 eggs 
1 cup butter 5 cups self-rising flour (if plain 
2 tablespoons sweet milk or water add 4 teaspoons baking 
1 teaspoon vanilla powder) 


Mix wet ingredients in bowl. Stir in dry ingredients. Roll out and cut. 
Bake at 350° until brown. 
Ercelle Stone 


LEMON SQUARES 


Bottom Layer 
1/2 cup butter or margarine 
1/4 cup powdered sugar 
1 cup sifted flour (plain) 


Mix above ingredients. Put into 9-inch square pan. Bake in 350° oven 
15 minutes. Now combine and pour over bottom layer the following: 


1 cup sugar 2 eggs, slightly beaten 
2 tablespoons flour 3 tablespoons lemon juice 
1/2 teaspoon baking powder 


Bake 350° for 25 minutes. While warm sprinkle with three tablespoons 
powdered sugar and cut into 1 1/2 inch squares. Makes three dozen. 


Jay McHuffman 
12 


NO BAKE CHOCOLATE OATMEAL COOKIES 


1/2 cup milk 2 cups sugar 

1/2 cup oleo 1/3 cup cocoa (or 1/2 cup sweet- 
ened chocolate mix and 1 cup 
sugar 


Boil one minute. Remove from heat. Add: 


1 cup peanut butter 
3 cups oatmeal (uncooked) 


Stir thoroughly. Drop by teaspoons full onto aluminum foil or wax paper 
to cool. 


Angie Ward 
PEANUT BUTTER DELIGHT 
4 cups sugar 1 cup peanut butter 
3/8 cup cocoa 4 cups oatmeal 
1 cup margarine 2 teaspoons vanilla 
1/4 teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 


Mix sugar, cocoa, butter, milk and salt in saucepan. Place over heat and 
bring to a hard boil. Boil two minutes. Remove from heat. Add peanut 
butter, oatmeal and vanilla. Blend well. Quickly drop by teaspoonful on 


wax paper. Let stand until firm. 
Roberta Sanford 
illi ilt 
BROWNIES WITH KARO Ronee ee 


Cream together: 


2 1/2 cups granulated sugar 
2 sticks margarine 
5 squares baking chocolate (melted and cooled) 


Add: 


1 1/2 teaspoons salt 

1 3/4 teaspoons vanilla 

3 large or 4 small eggs 

Mix well then add 1/2 cup white Karo. Mix until smooth. 

Stir In: 

3 1/4 cups sifted flour 

1 1/4 cups chopped nuts 

Use medium speed on electric mixer. Pour into 9 x 13 x 2 inch greased 
pan. Bake at 350° (or 325° for glass) until firm to touch but not dry. 
Check with toothpick in center. Cut into squares. Can also be left 
whole for freezing. Baking time 50-55 minutes. 


Mildred Garrett 


13 


NO BAKE COOKIES 


2 cups sugar 1/2 cup cocoa 
1 stick margarine 1/2 cup milk 


Cook above ingredients, stirring constantly until it comes to boil. Remove 
from heat and add: 

1/2 cup peanut butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 cups 1 minute Quaker Oats nuts if desired 

Mix well and drop by teaspoonfuls onto wax paper. Let set until hard. 


Phyllis Patterson 
Gen Molnar 


2 


14 


Appetizers 





HOT CHEESE DIP 


1 lb. Velveeta cheese, cubed 
1/2 can hot tomatoes, drained 


Melt cheese in double boiler; add tomatoes and juice to taste (should be hot). 
Keep dip in fondue pot or chafing dish to serve. 


Patti King 


TOMATO AND BACON CANAPE 


Spread toasted bread slices with Kraft Cheese, a slice of tomato, salt and 
paprika. Top with two slices of bacon. Broil. Serve while hot. 


Joyce Clayton 


PARTY SAUSAGE BALLS 


1 Ib. hot bulk sausage 
1/2 Ib. sharp cheddar cheese, finely grated 
3 cups Bisquik 


Mix sausage and cheese together; mix in Bisquik and knead until thoroughly 
combined. Pinch off small pieces of the mixture and roll into balls about 3/4 
inch in diameter. Place on cookie sheet about 2 inches apart. Bake in 350 
oven for about 15 minutes. Remove from pan; lay balls on paper towels; cool. 
Makes about 100 sausage balls. Great for parties. 


Jo Woodie 
Jay McHuffman 


15 


ICED FRUIT SOUP 


1 pineapple 6 peaches 
1 banana 2 teaspoons arrowroot 
sugar to taste juice of 1 lemon 


Grate pineapple and simmer with 1 quart water until tender. Add peaches (or 
other type fruit) and banana. Cook until tender enough to press through sieve. 
Blend arrowroot with a little cold water and add 1 quart boiling water. Com- 
bine with fruit and simmer 3 minutes. Add lemon juice and sugar. Chill and 
serve very cold. 


Joyce Clayton 
CHILLED MELON BALLS 
2 cups cantaloupe balls 1/4 cup grape juice 
2 cups watermelon balls 4 tablespoons lemon juice 
2 cups honeydew balls 1 cup water 
1/2 cup sugar 


Boil for 1 minute the sugar, grape juice, lemon juice and water. Cool and 
chill. Chill fruit balls. When ready to serve, arrange balls in serving cups. 
Add fruit juice. Garnish with red cherries and mint leaves. Serves 8. 


Joyce Clayton 
SUGARED PEANUTS 
1/2 cup water 2 cups peanuts, raw 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon food coloring (red or 
green) 


Mix all ingredients together. Boil until water evaporates and sugar coats. 
peanuts. Bake 25 minutes at 300°. 
Martha Garmon 


PETITE PARTY CHEESE CAKES 

8 oz. pkg. cream cheese, at room 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
temperature 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3/4 cup sugar vanilla wafers 

2 eggs cherry pie filling (or other flavor) 


Blend cheese, sugar, eggs, lemon juice and vanilla. Line muffin tins with cup 
cake papers. Place vanilla wafer in bottom. Fill with cheese mixture. Bake at 
375° in oven for 15 to 20 minutes. Makes 12. To serve, remove papers and 
top with a spoonful of cherry pie filling. 

Jo Woodie 


16 


CREAMY BLUE CHEESE DIP 


1 cup dairy sour cream 1 tablespoon milk 
1/4 cup mayonnaise or salad dressing 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
2 ounces blue cheese, crumbled 

(1/2 cup) 


Dippers: celery, carrot sticks, cherry tomatoes, crackers, corn chips, potato 
chips, etc. 


Blend sour cream, mayonnaise and half of the blue cheese. Add milk and 
lemon juice; beat smooth with rotary beater. Chill. Garnish with remaining 
blue cheese. Serve with the above suggested dippers. Makes about 1 1/3 cups. 


Barbara Lou Allen 


CHEESE BALL 

1/2 cup pecans, toasted 1/4 teaspoon garlic salt 

3 oz. blue cheese 1 tablespoon chopped green pepper 
8 oz. cream cheese 1 tablespoon chopped pimiento 


Blend all ingredients except nuts and shape into a ball. Chill. Before serving 
roll in pecans. Serve with crackers. 


Daphne Ashworth 
PINEAPPLE CHEESE BALL 
2 8 oz. pkgs. cream cheese, 2 tablespoons finely chopped onion 
softened 1 tablespoon salt 
1 can (8 1/2 oz.) crushed pineapple, canned pineapple slices 
drained parsley sprigs 
2 cups chopped pecans maraschino cherries 


1/4 cup finely chopped green pepper assorted crackers 


In medium bowl, beat cream cheese with fork until smooth. Gradually stir in 
crushed pineapple, 1 cup pecans, green pepper, onion and salt. Shape into a 
ball. Roll in remaining nuts. Wrap in plastic film or foil. Refrigerate until 
well chilled (overnight). To serve, place cheese ball on serving board. If de- 
sired, garnish with pineapple slices, cherries, parsley. Surround with crackers. 


Blanche Booth 
CHEESE BALL 
1 cup cottage cheese 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 
1/2 lb. sharp cheese, grated 6 or 8 drops Tabasco 
1 8 oz. pkg. cream cheese dash of salt 


Mix together with hands. Make into large ball. Roll in chopped nuts, paprika 


or parsley. Chill before serving. 
Jean McConnell 


in 


CHEESE STRAWS 


1/2 Ib. butter (not quite as 1/2 Ib. cheese, grated 
much if you use margarine) 1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/2 lb. flour, plain cayenne pepper 


Weigh all ingredients. Have butter and cheese at room temperature. Mix as 
for pie crust so that it just will stick together. Put mixture into a cookie press. 
Make straws about 1 inch wide and 2 inches long. Bake at 400° F. for 15 
minutes. This temperature and time may vary. Do not overcook. 


May be made as biscuits. If biscuit: Roll to 1/4 inch thick. Cut with inside 
of doughnut cutter. When cooked are crisp all through. 


Mrs. Don W. Casper 


CHEESE STRAWS 


1/4 lb. extra sharp cheese, grated 

1/4 lb. margarine, room temperature 

1 cup plain flour 

Mix together and form into straws. Bake at 350° approximately 10 minutes. 


Mrs. Tommy Jeffries 


CHEESE TOASTS 
1/2 lb. Gouda cheese enough mayonnaise for spreading 
1 medium onion, chopped fine easily 


dash of garlic powder (optional) 


Toast bread under broiler on: one side. Trim crusts if desired, and cut in 
halves or fourths. Spread mixture on soft side of bread. Place under broiler 
until brown. 


Jean Smith 





18 


PEPPER RELISH 


24 bell peppers, red and green 1/2 cup salt 
8 onions, large 6 cups vinegar 
1 bunch celery, large 6 cups sugar 


Grind first three ingredients in a meat grinder and pour salt over the mix- 
ture. Pour hot water over mixture to cover, and let stand 20 minutes. 
Drain water off and rinse. Mix vinegar and sugar. Let come to a boil and 
add ground vegetables. Cook for 20 minutes. Pack in pint jars and seal. 
Yield: 9-10 pints. 

Millie Waller 


SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES 


7 Ibs. cucumbers, sliced crosswise 
2 cups pickling lime 
2 gallons water 


Soak cucumber slices 24 hours in lime and water mixture; then rinse in 3 
different cool waters. Soak 3 hours in ice and water. Remove. 
Syrup 


2 quarts vinegar 
4 1/4 lbs. sugar 
1 tablespoon salt 


Pour syrup over cucumbers. Let set overnight. Add pickling spice to suit 
taste. Boil mixture for 35 minutes. Place in pint jars and seal. 


PEAR RELISH 

1 peck of pears 5 cups vinegar 

1 bunch of celery 1 tablespoon salt 

4 or 5 medium onions 1 tablespoon allspice 
3 green bell peppers 1 tablespoon tumeric 
3 red bell peppers 2 Ibs. sugar (4 cups) 


Run pears, onion, peppers, and celery through food chopper. Add other 
ingredients. Bring to boil and cook 30 minutes. Put in hot sterilized jars 
and seal. Process 10 minutes in boiling water bath canner. 


Delicious served with meats! 
Mrs. Don W. Casper 


20 


MILLION DOLLAR PICKLES 


6 quarts cucumbers, sliced 
1 cup salt 


Let sliced cucumbers stand 2 hours in 1 cup salt and enough water to cover 
cucumbers. After cucumber slices have been in salt and water the required 
time, remove cucumbers and put into a pan or kettle. Put the following in- 
gredients in pan with cucumbers and boil about 5 or 10 minutes. 


10 big onions, chopped 6 cups sugar 

2 cans pimientos, chopped; or instead 2 teaspoons mustard seed 
of pimientos use red mangoes 2 teaspoons celery seed 

3 green peppers, chopped alum (to make pickles crisp) 


1 quart vinegar 


Put into jars and seal. 
Barbara Lou Allen 


PICKLE RELISH 

12 large green peppers 8 medium onions 

12 large red peppers 1 medium head cabbage 
4-6 cups chopped green tomatoes 3 teaspoons mustard seed 
5 hot peppers 1/2 cup salt 

8 carrots 2 teaspoons celery seed 


Grind all ingredients in food grinder. Add 1 /2 cup salt. Mix and place in 
sack in colander and drain for three to four hours or overnight. Empty into 
large pan; cover with boiling water. Cover and let stand 10 minutes. Drain 
well. Meanwhile mix 6 cups vinegar and 5 cups sugar and heat to boiling. 
Add celery and mustard seed. Pour over drained mixture. When boiling 
point is reached again, pour into hot sterile jars and seal. 


Dot Robinson 


SEASONED SALT 

1/4 teaspoon dill weed 1 teaspoon curry powder 

1 cup salt 2 teaspoons dry mustard 

1 teaspoon thyme 1/2 teaspoon instant onion powder 
1 1/2 teaspoons oregano pinch of fresh ground black pep- 

1 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder per, if desired 


2 teaspoons paprika 


Mix and use. 
Jackie Burns 


2 


BREAD AND BUTTER PICKLES 


4 quarts sliced medium cucumbers 5 cups sugar 

6 medium white onions, sliced 1 1/2 teaspoons tumeric 

2 green peppers 1 1/2 teaspoons celery seed 
3 cloves garlic 2 tablespoons mustard seed 
1/3 cup coarse-medium salt 3 cups cider vinegar 


Do not pare cucumbers; slice thin. Add onions, peppers, and whole garlic 
cloves. Add salt; cover with cracked ice; mix thoroughly. Combine remain- 
ing ingredients; pour over cucumber mixture. Heat just to a boil. Seal in 
hot sterilized jars. Makes 8 pints. 

Jackie Burns 


BEET PICKLES 


Cook beets until tender. Cold dip and slip skins. Cut in desired size. 


Syrup 

2 cups sugar 1 tablespoon cinnamon 
2 cups water 1 teaspoon cloves 

2 cups vinegar 1 teaspoon allspice 


1 lemon sliced thin (optional) 


Cover beets with syrup mixture and simmer for 10 or 15 minutes. Seal in 
clean hot jars. I tie spices in a cloth so they don’t discolor pickles. 


Jackie Burns 


WINE JELLY 

2 envelopes plain gelatin 1 pinch of salt 

1/2 cup cold water 1/4 cup lemon juice 
1 cup boiling water 1/4 cup orange juice 
2 cups sweet sherry wine 2/3 cup sugar 


Dissolve gelatin in cold water. Add other ingredients. Stir well and congeal 
in refrigerator. 
Buz MacNeill 


“Happiness is a Swedish sunset — it is there for all, but most of us look the 
other way and lose it.’’......... Mark Twain 


Pips 


PEAR PRESERVES 


3 quarts pears 
3 cups water 
4 1/2 cups sugar 


Peel and chop pears. Bring water, sugar and pears to a boil. Lower heat 
and cook slowly until tender and transparent. Place in sterilized jars and 
seal. 


Jean Smith 
BARBECUE SAUCE 
1 envelope Lipton Onion Soup Mix 2 tablespoons prepared mustard 
1 1/2 cups water 2 teaspoons salt 
1/2 cup vinegar 1 teaspoon pepper 
1/2 cup butter or oleo 1 cup catsup 
1/4 cup sugar 


Mix all ingredients except catsup and simmer for 10 minutes. Add catsup 
and stir. 
Dot Robinson 


WHITE SAUCE 


2 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk 
2 tablespoons flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 
few grains pepper 


Melt butter in small, flat-bottomed saucepan. Add flour, salt, pepper and 
stir until well-blended. Pour in milk gradually, stirring constantly. Bring 
to boiling point and boil at least two minutes. 


Thin Sauce — 1 tablespoon butter and 1 tablespoon flour 
Thick Sauce — 4 tablespoons butter and 4 tablespoons flour 


This is a basic recipe for white sauce. For a cheese sauce add 3/4 cup grated 
or finely chopped cheese. 


This may be used as a sauce for vegetables, eggs, casserole dishes, etc. 
Billie Hamilton 


FREEZING PEPPERS 


To freeze peppers: Clean peppers; cut in desired size and place in boiling 
water. Boil two minutes. Remove from hot water and cool peppers in cold 


water or ice water. Freeze immediately. 
Billie Hamilton 


Za 


*COOKING SUGGESTIONS * 


To toast coconut for cakes, put in pie pan and piace 
in moderate oven, stir often from edges, to brown evenly. 


* 
Flour should be sifted once before measuring. Fill 
the cup without packing. 


ok 


Do not grease the sides of cake pans; grease only the 
bottoms. 


a 


When beating egg whites donot tap beater on bowl of 
egg whites. The jarring of beater will cause the whites to 
lose a great deal of their fluffiness. The beater should be 
tapped on the hand to clear off the whites. 


* 


If home churned butter is used, use equal parts of 
butter and lard or other shortening. 


* 


Eggs should be at least three days old before using 
in cakes, 


c 

SLOW OVEN-------- 250 to 325 degrees 
MODERATE OVEN---350 to 375 degrees 
HOT OVEN---------- 400 to 450 degrees 


VERY HOT OVEN----450 to 500 degrees 


* 


When making cake icing or candy consisting of milk 
or cream and sugar, add one teaspoon of ordinary table 
syrup for each cup of sugar used. Boil in the usual way, | 
Your finished product will be much smoother and not so apt 
to become sugary. 





INSTANT RUSSIAN TEA 


2 cups Tang 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1 cup instant tea 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 
1/4 cup Wyler’s Lemonade Miv 


Mix all ingredients together. Store in covered container. For :each cup of tea 
desired, add 2 teaspoons of mix and 2 teaspoons of sugar to a cup of boiling 
water. 


Roberta Sanford 
INSTANT RUSSIAN TEA MIX 
2 cups Tang 1 teaspoon cloves 
3/4 cup instant tea with lemon 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 1/2 cups sugar 1/2 teaspoon allspice 


Mix all ingredients together and store in covered bowl. (If tea is presweetened 
omit sugar or adjust amount according to taste.) To serve, add 2 teaspoons 
mix to 1 cup boiling water. 


Ruth Anne Munro 
INSTANT SPICED TEA 
3/4 cup instant tea 2 teaspoon cloves 
2 cups orange Tang 1 heaping teaspoon cinnamon 


2 pkgs. lemon Kool-Aid (unsweetened) 1 cup sugar 


Mix all together. Keep tightly closed in screw-top jar. Use about two tea- 
spoons per cup. 
Barbara D. Turner 


GIRL SCOUT PUNCH 
2 pkgs. lime Kool-Ade 1 46 oz. can pineapple juice 
1 cup sugar 2 quarts ginger ale 


2 quarts water 


Mix all ingredients. Serves 20 people. 
Ellie Sanford 


PUNCH 
1 pkg. strawberry (or lime) gelatin 1 large can pineapple juice | 
1 cup sugar 2 bottles ginger ale | 








1 quart water 


Mix all but ginger ale and freeze in clean half gallon milk cartons. Take out of 
freezer about 3 hours before serving and allow to partially thaw. Chop so mix; 
ture will be icy. Add 2 bottles ginger ale when ready to serve. 


Jean Chase 
26 


BASIC PARTY PUNCH (For 40) 


2 No. 5 cans grapefruit juice 1 No. 2 can orange juice 


1 pint ginger ale 1 sliced lime or lemon 
2 No. 2 cans tangerine juice 


Chill grapefruit, ginger ale, and tangerine juice in their original containers. Re- 
move label from orange juice and place can in freezing compartment of re- 
frigerator; freeze until firm. Pour citrus juices and ginger ale into punch bowl. 
Remove both ends from can of frozen juice; push out; add to punch. Float 
lime or lemon slices on top. 


Barbara Lou Allen 


PUNCH 
1 pkg. cherry gelatin 1 No. 2 can pineapple juice 
1 pkg. lemon gelatin 1 quart ginger ale 


2 cups lemon juice 


Dissolve cherry and lemon gelatin in boiling water. Add lemon juice and pine- 
apple juice. Add ginger ale and enough water to make 1 gallon. (Use gallon 
jar.) Sweeten to taste. 

Dot Robinson 


CRANBERRY PUNCH 
2 quarts cranberry juice 3/4 cup lemon juice (4 lemons) 
1 quart orange juice or pineapple 1/2 cup sugar 

juice 


Mix together. When ready to serve, add 2 quarts ginger ale. 


Millie Waller 
GOLDEN PUNCH 
1 cup water 2 cups pineapple juice 
2 cups sugar 2 cups frozen orange juice 


3/4 cup Real Lemon Juice 


Mix water and sugar. Add remaining ingredients. Add enough water to make 
1 gallon. Add 4 quarts ginger ale to punch bowl. Serves 32. 


Martha Garmon 


TEMPERANCE TODDY (Given to me by Jane Thompson) 
1 quart apple juice 2 tablespoons sugar 

_ 1 pint grape juice 1 stick cinnamon 
2 oranges, juiced 2-3 cloves 


1 lemon, juiced 


Combine ingredients in a saucepan. Bring to a oil. Serve piping hot in small 


. Serves 8-10 people. 
be F Joyce Clayton 


omy | 


FROSTY GOLDEN PUNCH 





1 6 oz. can frozen lemonade 1 12 oz. can (1 1/2 cups) apricot 
concentrate nectar, chilled | 
1 6 oz. can frozen orange juice 1/2 cup lemon juice 
concentrate 1 quart lemon sherbet | 
1 6 oz. can frozen pineapple juice 2 large bottles (7 to 8 cups) 
concentrate ginger ale, chilled 
| 


Add water to frozen concentrates according to directions on cans. Add chilled! 
apricot nectar and lemon juice. Just before serving, spoon in sherbet. To keep) 
carbonation, carefully pour ginger ale down side of bowl. Makes 20 to 25 
one-half cup servings. 

Barbara Lou Allen 


ORIENTAL PUNCH 

1 quart tea juice of 12 oranges 

25 whole cloves juice of 10 lemons 

4 cups sugar 1 large bottle ginger ale 


1 No. 2 can pineapple juice 


Tie spices in cheesecloth. Cook tea, sugar, water, spices and fruit juices for 15 
minutes. Strain and reheat punch. Just before serving, add ginger ale. Also 
can be served cold. 


Joyce Clayton 
FRUIT DRINKS FOR SUMMER 
APPLE BLOSSOM PUNCH 
3 quarts apple juice 3 12 ounce cans frozen orange juice, 
3 quarts ginger ale concentrate 


fresh orange slices 


Combine fruit juices and ginger ale. Pour over block of ice. Float orange slice| 
on top of punch. | 
Ercelle Stone 


PUNCH 

1 40 oz. can pineapple juice 1 large can frozen orange juice, di- | 

1 40 oz. can apple juice (or luted with water to equal 4 cups: 
1 quart bottle) 1 small can frozen lemonade, di- | 


luted with water to equal 3 cups | 


In separate pan, mix 2 cups sugar, 2 cups water and 1 chopped lemon (rind 
and all). Boil for 10 minutes. Remove lemon rind, seeds, etc. Add to above 
mixture and freeze. Chop frozen mixture. Serve with 3 quarts ginger ale. 
Cherries may be added. 

Joan Comer 


28 





CREAM CHEESE — BLACK OLIVE SANDWICHES 


2 8 oz. pkgs. cream cheese, softened 
1 can pitted ripe olives, drained 


Mash softened cream cheese with fork. Chop olives; mix with cheese. Spread 
on any type of bread and cut. 


Patti King 
PIMIENTO CHEESE 
1/2 small jar Miracle Whip 1 7 oz. jar pimientos 
1 lb. medium cheese pinch of salt 


1 stick oleo 


Cream cheese and butter; add mayonnaise, pimientos, and salt. 


Jackie Burns 


GRILLED MEAT SANDWICHES 


With any leftover roast make sandwiches by spreading mustard on bread, add- 
ing a slice of meat and then another slice of bread. Grill in oil until browned. 
It is delicious for any meat. 

Gen Molnar 


QUICK SNACK 


Toast slices of bread. Place tomato slices on buttered toast. Dot with Cheese 
Whiz or similar cheese spread. Broil a few minutes until cheese melts. Cut in 
triangles. Serve. 


CHEESE-TOMATO-GREEN PEPPER SANDWICH 


8 slices of bread mayonnaise 
1/4 Ib. medium sharp cheese, salt 

sliced pepper 
4 small tomatoes, sliced sugar 


1 green pepper, cut in rings 


Spread each slice of bread with mayonnaise, and cover four slices with strips 
of cheese. Arrange on baking sheet and place under broiler approximately 3 
minutes or until cheese melts and the 4 slices of bread spread with mayonnaise 
are slightly toasted. | 






Remove from oven. Quickly place sliced tomatoes over toasted cheese. Sea- | 
son to taste with salt, pepper, and sugar. Put 2 or 3 green pepper rings over 
tomato and top with second slice of bread. 


Sarah Casper 





CHERRY YUM-YUM 





1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs 1 pkg. Dream Whip | 
3/4 stick margarine 1 3 oz. pkg. cream cheese, softened 
1 can cherry pie filling 1/2 cup sugar | 


Make a crust from the graham cracker crumbs and margarine in a rectangular , 
casserole dish. Chill while preparing topping. Mix Dream Whip according to 
package directions. Add cream cheese and sugar. Place cherry pie filling in 
graham cracker crust, and top with Dream Whip topping. Reserve a small 
amount of graham cracker crumbs to garnish . 


Millie Waller | 


APPLE STRUDLE 

Pastry: 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons vinegar 
1/2 Ib. oleo 1/4 cup water 

3 egg whites 


Mix the pastry ingredients as pie dough. Refrigerate at least 3 hours or over- 
night. Divide into three parts. Roll out on floured cloth to fit 10 1/2 x 15 
cookie sheet. Brush with melted butter. Sprinkle each part with 1/3 of the 
filling. 


Filling: 

1 tablespoon flour 3 apples, very thinly sliced 
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon raisins 

3 tablespoons sugar chopped nuts 


grated rind of 1 lemon 


Roll up; brush with egg whites. Bake on ungreased cookie sheet at. 375° for 
45 minutes. Slice in 1-1 1/2 inch slices. 


Kathleen Mac Queen 
APPLE DUMPLINGS 
3-4 apples, peeled and cubed 1 1/2 sticks butter 
1 can crescent rolls 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 cups sugar cinnamon 


1 1/2 cups water 


Roll each portion of crescent dough thin. Mix apples, 1 1/2 cups os sugar, and 
1 stick of butter. Spoon some into each crust cupped in hand. Pinch top to- 
gether and place in baking dish. Add remaining sugar and butter to water. 
Pour over dumplings. Sprinkle top with cinnamon and bake in medium oven 
until brown. 

Jackie Burns 


32 


MARSHMALLOW DELIGHT 


1 can pineapple, crushed 
1/2 lb. marshmallows, cubed 
1/2 pint whipping cream 


Drain juice from pineapple. Mix pineapple and marshmallows and let set in 
refrigerator several hours. Just before serving, add whipped cream. 


Roberta R. Sanford 


LIME LOVELIES 

Meringue Shells: 

3 egg whites 1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1/8 teaspoon salt 3/4 cup sugar 


Beat egg whites until foamy. Add cream of tartar and salt and beat until stiff 
but not dry. Add sugar gradually, beating until very stiff. 


Cover baking sheet with heavy brown paper. Pile meringue into 6 rounds about 
3 inches in diameter. Make a 2 inch depression in the center of each. Bake in 
a 275° oven for 1 hour. 


Florida Lime Filling: 
3 egg yolks 1/4 cup sugar 


4 tablespoons lime juice 1 1/2 teaspoons lime rind 
1 cup heavy cream, whipped 


Beat egg yolks. Add sugar and lime juice. Cook over boiling water, stirring 
constantly until thickened. Add grated lime rind. 


Remove from heat; chill. Fold into whipped cream. Fill meringue shells. Chill 
6 to 24 hours in refrigerator. Makes 6 servings. A small amount of green food 
coloring may be added for color. 


J 
DEVIL’S FLOAT piety. Soli 
1 cup flour 3/4 cup sugar 
1/2 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 1/2 tablespoons cocoa 1/2 cup milk 
1/2 cup nuts 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Sift dry ingredients. Mix milk, sugar and vanilla. Combine with dry ingredi- 
ents. Add nuts. 


Sauce: 
1/2 cup sugar 4 tablespoons cocoa 
1/2 cup brown sugar 1 cup hot water 


Pour batter into greased 8 inch square pan. Mix sauce. Pour sauce over batter. 
Bake 350° about 40 minutes. 
Mary Hafer 
33 


CHERRY ANGEL DESSERT 


- 8 cups angel cake cubes 1 No. 2 can cherry pie filling 
1 pkg. instant vanilla pudding (family —1:1/2 cups milk 
size) 


1 cup dairy sour cream 


Place half of the cake pieces ina 9 x 9 x 2 pan. Put cherry pie mix over cake 
and add remainder of cake. Combine remaining ingredients and beat until 
smooth. Spoon over cake. 

Jackie Burns 


BANANA CREAM PUDDING 

1 large box vanilla pudding, instant vanilla wafers 
1 carton sour cream Dream Whip 
1 teaspoon vanilla bananas 


Make up vanilla pudding; add sour cream and vanilla. Put wafers and bananas 
in pan and pour mixture over it. Make up Dream Whip and pour over top. 
Store in refrigerator until chilled thoroughly. 


Sue Kimbrough 


HOMEMADE ICE CREAM (Recipe for 5 quart freezer) 


3 cups sugar 

4 eggs 

1/2 teaspoon vanilla 

any fruit desired, fresh or frozen 


Stir first three ingredients together. Add fruit. (If fruit is already sweetened, 
you may want to decrease the amount of sugar used.) Pour into freezer, add- 
ing enough milk to fill freezer. Stir. Freeze until solid. 


Jackie Burns 


COUNTRY VANILLA ICE CREAM 


4 eggs, beaten 4 cups evaporated milk 
PLAY cups sugar 1 1/2 tablespoons vanilla 
6 cups milk 1/2 teaspoon salt 


Add sugar to beaten eggs, beating well. Add remaining ingredients and mix. 


a into gallon freezer. When using fruit, use 4 cups instead of 4 cups of 
milk. 
Daphne Ashworth 


34 


ENGLISH TOFFEE DESSERT 


16-20 vanilla wafers, crushed 3 eggs, separated 
1 cup chopped walnuts 1 1/2 to 2 squares chocolate, melted 
1 stick butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 


1 cup powdered sugar 


Mix wafer crumbs and nuts; press half of mixture into a buttered 8 or 9 inch 
square pan to form crust. Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten egg yolks, 
chocolate and vanilla. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour mixture into 
pan; top with remaining crumb mixture. Chill thoroughly. Serve with sweet- 
ened whipped cream. NOTE: If desired, sweetened whipped cream may be 
spread over filling, sprinkled with crumbs and then refrigerated. This dessert 
may be frozen. 6 to 8 servings. 


Jean Smith 





ah) 


Over the past several years the Band Boosters and Band have had 
a 4th of July concession of selling homemade, hand-cranked 
ice cream. This has proved to be one of the highlights of Cary’s 


Ath of July Celebration. 


CARY BAND BOOSTER ICE CREAM 


3 eggs 

1 large can evaporated milk 
2 cups sugar 

1 tablespoon vanilla 


Mix together in mixer or blender. Pour into a 1 gallon hand-cranked freezer. 
Add enough whole milk to fill freezer about 3/4 full. 


Millie Waller 





36 


BISHOP BREAD 


2 cups brown sugar 

1/2 cup margarine, melted 
1 teaspoon soda 

2 teaspoons baking powder 


1 egg 
Bake at 375° for 45 minutes. 


BANANA BREAD 


2 large ripe bananas, mashed 
1/4 cup butter, melted 

2 cups flour, sifted 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

3/4 teaspoon soda 


2/3 cup buttermilk 

2 1/2 cups plain flour 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 cup nuts 


Roberta Sanford 


1 1/2 cups sugar 

2 unbeaten eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
1/4 cup buttermilk 
1/2 cup chopped nuts 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs and bananas. Add remaining dry ingredi- 
ents with milk. Beat well. Add vanilla and nuts. Grease two loaf pans. Bake 


at 325° for 30 to 35 minutes. 


PUMPKIN BREAD 


1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 
3 cups sugar 

3 cups plain flour 

1 3/4 teaspoons salt 


Martha Garmon 


1 cup oil 

4 eggs 

1 cup pumpkin 
2/3 cup water 

1 teaspoon soda 


Beat together first seven ingredients. Add pumpkin, water and soda. Grease 
and flour 3 one pound coffee cans. Fill each can 1/2 full. Bake at 350° for 


one hour. 


Becky Braswell 


SMILEY BURNETTE’S BUTTERMILK PANCAKES 


2 cups flour 

2 cups buttermilk 
1 egg 

1 teaspoon sugar 


1 teaspoons soda 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon salt 


Mix ingredients in blender or beat well with rotary beater. If too thick, add 
more buttermilk. Batter should not be stiff. Pour into bottle or such; let 
stand overnight in refrigerator. In morning shake well and pour on heated 


grill or pan. 


Gen Molnar 


APPLE-NUT COFFEE CAKE 


1/2 cup shortening 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon baking soda 

2 eggs 1/4 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup sour cream 

2 cups sifted flour 2 cups finely chopped apples, peeled 


Cream shortening and sugar. Add egs, one at a time, beating well after each. 
Add vanilla. Sify dry ingredients together and add alternately with sour cream. 
Fold in chopped apples. Put in greased 13 x 9 inch pan. Sprinkle topping over 
batter and bake at 350° F. for 35 to 40 minutes. 


Topping 

1/2 cup brown sugar, packed 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1/2 cup nuts, chopped 2 tablespoons melted butter 
Mrs. W. Webb White 

BREAD BUNS (Or Rolls) 

1 cake or pkg. yeast 1/4 teaspoon salt 

1/4 cup lukewarm water 1 cup scalded milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 egg, beaten 

2 tablespoons Crisco 3 1/2 cups flour, sifted 


Dissolve yeast in water. Combine the sugar, Crisco, salt and milk in large bowl 
and cool to lukewarm. Add the egg and the dissolved yeast mixture. Mix well. 
Add flour gradually. Mix thoroughly. Put into bowl in shape of a flat ball 

and grease top of dough with melted butter or soft Crisco. Cover bowl with 
towel or lid and let rise in a warm place (85-90° F.) until double in bulk — 
about 2 hours. Shape dough into 16 buns and place on greased baking sheet. 
Let rise in a warm place until light — about 1 hour. Bake ina 400° F. oven 
for 12 to 15 minutes. 


Barbara Lou Allen 
RAW POTATO PANCAKES 
3 large potatoes 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
1 egg, beaten 3/4 teaspoon salt 
4 tablespoons flour 1/4 teaspoon grated onion 


shortening for frying 


Peel and grate potatoes; drain in sieve. Beat egg and add with rest of in- 
gredients. Let stand for 10 minutes. (Potatoes will darken but it doesn t 
matter.) Fry by spoonfuls in 1/2 inch of hot fat, keeping pancakes thin. 
Brown both sides. Serve at once. Great with pot roast. 


Gen Molnar 


39 


QUICKY DUMPLINGS 


1 cup flour chicken broth 
1 tablespoon chicken fat chicken livers, cut 
dash of salt 


Boil broth with cut chicken livers. Mix other ingredients and knead until fat 
disappears. Add ice water until proper consistency for rolling. Roll out in 
all directions until thin. Cut out dumplings. Drop carefully into broth. 
Cook 10 minutes. 

Cathy Segner 


QUICK AND EASY BISCUITS 


2 cups self-rising flour 
4 tablespoons mayonnaise 
1 cup milk 


Batter will be thin. Grease muffin tins well and spoon batter into tins. Heat 
oven to 400°. Bake 10 to 15 minutes. 
Eleanor Hennis . 


SWEET POTATO NUT MUFFINS 


1 1/2 cups flour 1 tablespoon honey 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup sieved, cooked sweet 
1/2 teaspoon salt potatoes 

2 eggs 1/2 cup chopped nuts 

1 cup milk 1/2 cup melted shortening 


Sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. Beat eggs; add milk and honey. 
Add potatoes; mix until smooth. Add dry ingredients and nuts. Add 
shortening. Fill greased muffin pans 2/3 full. Bake in hot even 400° F. 
30 minutes. Makes 16. 

Joyce Clayton 


POPOVERS 
2 eggs 1 cup Wondra flour 
1 cup milk 1/2 teaspoon salt 


Preheat oven to 425°. Grease well 8 or 10 glass muffin cups. Beat eggs 
slightly. Add milk, flour and salt. Fill Muffin cups 3/4 full or less. Bake 
about 40 minutes. (Only Wondra will make real light popovers.) 


Jo Woodie 


40 


PECAN SOUR CREAM COFFEE CAKE 


1/2 Ib. oleo 1 teaspoon baking soda 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
2 eggs 1/2 teaspoon salt 

2 cups plain flour 1 cup thick sour cream 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


Cream oleo, sugar and eggs. Add sifted flour, baking soda, baking powder 
and salt; blend. Add sour cream and vanilla. Pour half of the mixture into 
greased and floured 9 x 13 pan. Mix together brown sugar, white sugar, 
cinnamon and nuts. Sprinkle half of this mixture onto the batter. Pour on 
remaining batter and top with other half of topping mixture. Bake in pre- 
heated 350° oven for 35 to 40 minutes. 


Topping: 
1/3 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1/4 cup white sugar 1 cup chopped nuts 


Jane Beamer 


SOUR CREAM COFFEE CAKE 


1/2 cup shortening or margarine 2 cups flour 

3/4 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 teaspoon soda 

3 eggs 1/2 pint sour cream ‘ 


Cream shortening, sugar and vanilla. Add eggs one at a time, beating well. 
Add dry ingredients alternately with sour cream. Spread half batter in 
greased and floured tube pan. Cream butter, brown sugar and cinnamon; 
add nuts. Sprinkle half of topping over batter. Add remaining batter and 
sprinkle with rest of topping. Bake on low rack in oven at 350° for 50 to 
60 minutes. 


Topping: 
6 tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons cinnamon 
1 cup brown sugar 1 cup chopped nuts 


J. Smith 


QUICK DOUGHNUT PUFFS 


1 can refrigerated biscuits 
cinnamon sugar 
confectioner’s sugar 


Fry biscuits at 370° F. Serve warm. Dip doughnut puffs into cinnamon or 


confectioner’s sugar. Makes 10. 
Roberta R. Sanford 


41 


ICEBOX ROLLS 


1/2 cup shortening 1 pkg. yeast 
1/4 cup sugar 3 cups plain flour 
1/2 cup boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 


1 egg, well beaten 


Cream shortening and sugar. Add boiling water. Stir mixture until sugar 

and shortening are melted. Soak yeast in lukewarm water. Sift flour and 
salt together. To shortening and water mixture add beaten egg, yeast and 
water, and then all the flour. Mix until smooth. Place in bowl large enough 
for it to double in size and put in refrigerator overnight or if made early in 
the morning, can be used for supper. When ready to use, turn out on floured 
board, work until smooth, roll out, cut, butter, and fold together. Place on 
greased baking sheet and let rise 2-3 hours in warm place. Bake in preheated 
oven at 450° about 10-12 minutes. 


Edwina Erwin 
CRANBERRY BREAD 


2 cups flour 1/2 teaspoon soda 

1 egg 1 cup cranberries, sliced 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup sugar 1 cup nuts 

juice and rind of 1 orange, adding 2 tablespoons shortening 


enough boiling water to make 
3/4 cup liquid 


Sift flour, soda, salt and baking powder. Beat egg. Add sugar and shorten- 
ing. Add dry ingredients and liquids alternately. Stir in nuts and cranberries. 
Bake at 350° for 1 hour. 

Roberta R. Sanford 


BUTTERHORNS 

1 pkg. yeast 1/2 cup sugar 

1/4 cup water 1 teaspoon salt 

3/4 cup milk, scalded 3 beaten eggs 

1/2 cup shortening 4 1/2 cups sifted flour 


Soften the yeast in warm water (110 degrees). Combine milk, shortening, | 
sugar and salt; cool to lukewarm. Add yeast mixture and mix well. Add 
eggs, then flour; mix to smooth soft dough. Knead lightly on floured sur- 
face. Place dough in greased bowl, turning once to grease surface. Cover 
and let rise until double in bulk. 


Divide dough into thirds. Roll each third on lightly floured surface to a 
9-inch circle. Brush with melted fat. Cut each circle in 12 to 16 wedge- 
shaped pieces. Roll each wedge, starting with wide and rolling to point. 
Arrange rolls in a greased baking pan; brush with melted fat or oil. Cover 
and let rise until very light. Bake in hot oven (400°) 15 minutes. 


For crescents, shape in curve on baking pan. Makes 3 dozen rolls. 


Dorothy Jonson 
42 





Candies 


Phtog Ye 





PEANUT BRITTLE 


3 cups sugar 2 tablespoons butter (not oleo) 
1 cup hot water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup white Karo syrup 1/4 teaspoon salt 

2 cups uncooked peanuts 1 tablespoon baking soda 


Cook sugar, water and syrup together, using a candy thermometer, to 250°. 
Stir while cooking. Add peanuts and stir and cook to 300°. Remove from 
heat and stir in butter, salt and vanilla. Then add baking soda, and stir until 
it foams up into a light golden color. Have 2 large well greased cookie 
sheets ready. Pour out candy and let cool. When cool enough to touch, 
butter your fingers and spread candy over pan. Don’t use a knife to spread 
candy. When almost cold, lift candy from pan and break into pieces. 


Barbara Lou Allen 





DATE LOAF CANDY 


3 1/2 cups sugar 1 Ib. dates 
1 cup milk 1 cup chopped pecans 


Boil sugar and milk until it forms a soft ball in water. Add dates and pecans 
and cook until dates fall to pieces. Remove from heat and beat until cool 
or stiff. Turn on wet cloth and roll into rounds. Refrigerate until firm. 
Slice. 

Sue Kimbrough 


EASY FUDGE 

1/3 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons butter 1 lb. confectioners sugar 
1/2 cup cocoa 1/2 cup nuts, chopped 


1/2 teaspoon vanilla 

Heat milk and butter, Remove from heat and add remaining ingredients. 

Pour into 8 inch pan. Chill and cut into squares. No cooking required. 
Roberta R. Sanford 


PEANUT BRITTLE 


1 cup white sugar 2 cups raw peanuts 
1/2 cup white corn syrup 1 teaspoon soda 


Mix all ingredients except soda together in saucepan. Cook on high heat, 
stirring constantly, until syrup turns slightly brown. Remove from heat. 
Add soda; mix well; pour in greased baking pan. Cool thoroughly before 
removing. 

Jackie Burns 


44 


SUGARED PEANUTS 


3 cups shelled, raw peanuts 
1 cup sugar 
1/2 cup water 


Mix all ingredients in a saucepan. Cook until water is gone and sugar cry- 
stallizes. Spread out on ungreased cookie sheet and bake at 300° for 25 
minutes. 

Betty Conen 


PEANUTTIES 


4 3/4 cup confectioners sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1/2 can Eagle Brand condensed milk _ pecans, halves 


Mix first 3 ingredients and mold around pecans. Allow mixture to sit at 
room temperature 5-10 minutes for easier handling before molding around 
pecans. 

Jackie Burns 


CHOCOLATE BON BONS 


1/4 lb. melted butter 2 Ibs. confectioners sugar 
2 cups ground nuts 1 12 oz. pkg. chocolate bits 
2 31/2 oz. cans coconut 1/2 bar paraffin 


1 can Eagle Brand condensed milk 


Mix together first five ingredients. Chill 2-3 hours. Form into balls and chill. 
Over hot water melt chocolate bits and paraffin. Dip chilled balls into choco- 
late, using a toothpick. Set on waxed paper to cool coating. Leave chocolate 
over hot water while dipping. 


Susan Tandy 

Mrs. McManaway 
CHOC-CONFETTI NUT ROLL 
1 12 oz. pkg. chocolate bits chopped nuts 
1 stick margarine coconut (optional) 


1 pkg. miniature colored marshmallows 


Melt chocolate bits with margarine in double boiler. Cool until mixture is not 
hot enough to melt marshmallows. Add marshmallows, chopped nuts, and 
coconut, if desired. Mix. Roll into logs. Wrap in wax paper, refrigerate. Slice 
when hardened. Makes 3 - 6x2 1/2” logs. 


Doris Lewis 


45 


CINNAMON NUTS 


1 cup sugar 1/4 cup boiling water 
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 1 1/2 cups walnuts or pecans 
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar 


Combine the sugar, cinnamon, cream of tartar and boiling water. Continue to 
boil until a candy thermometer registers 246° . Add the nuts and cool, stir- 
ring until the syrup sugars on the nuts. Turn out onto a flat surface. Separate 
the nuts and cool until dry. Store in tightly covered containers. Yield: about 
I 2scups: 


Joan Comer 
BOURBON BALLS 
2 1/4 cups vanilla wafer crumbs 1 cup powdered sugar 
1 cup finely chopped pecans 3 tablespoons cocoa 
1/2 cup Bourbon 2 tablespoons white corn syrup 


Combine vanilla wafer crumbs and pecans. Place remaining ingredients in 
another bowl and beat thoroughly. Pour over dry ingredients and mix well. 
Roll into 1” balls, then roll the cookie balls in either powdered sugar or finely 
chopped nuts. Makes 40-48. 





46 





CHERRY CLOUD 


1 can cherry pie filling 1 small carton Cool Whip 
1 can condensed milk 1 can chopped pineapple, drained 
1/2 cup chopped pecans 


Mix in one bowl. Chill 1 hour before serving. 


Patti King 
YUM-YUM 
1 large can crushed pineapple 1 small can pimiento, cut fine 
1 pkg. lemon gelatin 1 small pkg. pecans, chopped fine 
1 cup hot water 1/2 pint whipping cream 
1/2 cup chopped celery 2 pkgs. cream cheese 


Drain juice from pineapple and save (1 cup). Boil juice and cool. Dissolve 
lemon gelatin in hot water and add the cooled juice. Let stand to congeal. 
Add drained pineapple, celery, pimiento and pecans. Whip whipping cream; 
add cream cheese and beat until smooth. Add to gelatin and mold. 


Joyce Clayton 
ORANGE DELIGHT 
2 small boxes orange gelatin 1 medium can crushed pineapple, 
1 1/4 cups boiling water not drained 
10 ice cubes 1 medium can mandarin oranges, 
1 small container Cool Whip drained 


Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Add ice cubes and stir until melted. Place 
in refrigerator until beginning to congeal. Add pineapple, mandarin oranges, 
and Cool Whip. Mix well and pour into mold and chill. Salad is usually ready 
to serve within 30 minutes. 


Becky Braswell 
ORANGE DELIGHT SALAD 
1 6 oz. pkg. orange gelatin 1 small can crushed pineapple 
1 can mandarin oranges 1 cup coconut 
1 can fruit cocktail 1 cup sour cream 


1 cup miniature marshmallows 


Drain oranges, fruit cocktail, and pineapple, saving juices. Make gelatin as di- 
rected on packing, using fruit juice. Stir until dissolved. Chill until mixture 
begins to thicken. Combine remaining ingredients. Mix well. Fold into gela- 
tin mixture and chill. 


48 


CONGEALED ALMOND FRUIT SALAD 


2 grapefruit seedless grapes (optional) 
3 oranges 1 pkg. slivered almonds 
1 large can pineapple chunks, 1 cup sugar 
drained 2 cups boiling water 
2 lemons 3 envelopes plain gelatin 


Section grapefruit and oranges. Add juice from these fruits and lemon juice 
to water making 1 1/2 cups of liquid. Dissolve gelatin in this liquid. Add two 
cups of boiling water. Add sugar, Stir well. Refrigerate until partially con- 
gealed. Stir in almonds and all fruit and congeal completely. Serve on lettuce 
with salad dressing topping. Makes 6 large servings. 


Buz MacNeill 
FIVE WAY SALAD 
1 cup sour cream 1 cup coconut 
1 cup mandarin oranges 1 cup marshmallows 
1 cup pineapple, crushed 
Mix and refrigerate overnight. 
Angie Ward 


FRUITY MALLO GELATIN DESSERT OR SALAD 


1 large pkg. lemon gelatin 1 can crushed pineapple,well-drained 
2 cups boiling water 1 1/2 cups miniature marshmallows 
3 sliced bananas 2 cups cold water 


Mix gelatin and water. When it starts to jell, add bananas, cold water, crushed 
pineapple and miniature marshmallows. Place in large cake pan. When 
thoroughly jelled, cover with topping. 


Topping 

2 eggs, beaten 1 cup pineapple juice 

3 tablespoons flour 1/2 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons butter 1/2 cup whipping cream 


Mix all but cream and bring to a boil. Cool. Fold in whipped cream and 
spread on jello mixture. Sprinkle with nuts, if desired. 


Joyce Weikert 


“The only way to have a friend is to be one.” 


49 


CHERRY GELATIN SALAD 


1 cup hot water 1/2 cup diced celery 
1 reg. pkg. cherry gelatin 1/2 cup chopped pecans 
1 can pitted cherries 


Dissolve gelatin in hot water. Drain cherries, saving juice. Add enough water 
to cherry juice to make 1 cup liquid; add to gelatin. Fold in remaining ingredi 
ents. Put into salad mold and refrigerate. 


Sue Kimbrough 
MANDARIN ORANGE SALAD 
1 large pkg. orange gelatin 1 can mandarin oranges, not drained 
1 1/2 cups boiling water 1 small can crushed pineapple 


1 small can frozen orange juice 


Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Add other ingredients. Place in moid and 
congeal. 
Edwina Erwin 


PINEAPPLE-APRICOT SALAD 


1 cup hot water 2 envelopes Dream Whip 
12 oz. can crushed pineapple (do not 1 cup chopped celery 
drain) 1 cup chopped nuts | 


1 large or 2 small pkgs. apricot jello l large pkg. cream cheese 


| 


Mix pineapple and gelatin with 1 cup hot water in a saucepan and cook over 
low heat about 10 minutes. Let cool. Blend in cream cheese on low speed. 
Refrigerate until practically set. Beat Dream Whip until it peaks; then fold 
into gelatin mixture. Add nuts and celery. Put in large mold. Refrigerate. 


Millie Waller 


FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 


1 pkg. lemon pie filling 
1 cup whipped cream or Dream Whip 
grated cheese (optional) 


Cook lemon pie filling according to directions. Cool. Add whipped cream or 
Dream Whip. Sprinkle with grated cheese. 
Ruth Ann Munro 


50 


REFRIGERATED COLE SLAW 


1 large cabbage 1 tablespoon salt 
3 medium onions 1 cup vinegar 

1 cup sugar 1 cup salad oil 

2 teaspoons dry mustard 2 teaspoons sugar 


1 teaspoon celery seeds 


Shred cabbage and slice onions into thin rings. Top with 1 cup sugar and mix 
together. Combine and bring to a boil the sugar, mustard, celery seeds, salt, 
vinegar and salad oil. Pour hot liquid over the cabbage and onions. Cool. 
Cover and refrigerate. This may be kep in the refrigerator for 4 or 5 days. 


Millie Waller 
SEVEN DAY SLAW 
3 Ibs. cabbage, grated 1/2 cup onion, chopped 
1/2 cup pimiento 1/2 cup green pepper, chopped 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 


Combine ingredients for slaw. Let stand one hour. Mix dressing ingredients; 
pour over slaw. Cover and refrigerate. Slaw will keep seven days in refrigera- 
tor. 


Dressing 
1/2 cup salad oil 1 teaspoon dry mustard 
1/2 cup vinegar 1 teaspoon celery seeds 
Gen Molnar 
MARINATED SALAD 
1 onion 1 small can sliced pimientos, drained 
few stalks celery 1 small can garden peas, drained 
1 cucumber 1 can cut green beans 


1 green pepper 

Slice onion, celery, cucumber and green pepper into large bowl. Add pimientos, 
peas and beans. Pour cooled dressing over mixture. Let set overnight or all 
day. 


Dressing 

1 1/2 cups sugar dash salt 

1 cup vinegar dash pepper 

2 tablespoons water dash garlic salt 


1/2 cup salad oil 


Combine first six dressing ingredients in small saucepan. Heat until sugar dis- 
solves. Add salad oil; heat one minute. Cool. 
Virginia Pennell 
Sl 


CRANBERRY SALAD 


1 can whole cranberry sauce 1 teaspoon ginger 

juice of 1 lemon 1/2 cup orange marmalade 
1/4 cup chopped nuts 1 pkg. fruit-flavored gelatin 
1/4 cup chopped cherries 


Mix gelatin as directed and combine with other ingredients. Congeal. 
Jean McConnell 


BLUE CHEESE DRESSING 

1 pint pure mayonnaise 1/2 Ib. blue cheese 

2 teaspoons parsley flakes 1 grated onion 

1 tablespoon prepared mustard salt and pepper to taste 
1 tablespoon vinegar 1/2 teaspoon garlic salt 


1 large carton sour cream 


Mix together by hand (not in a blender) and store in refrigerator in pint jars. 
This makes an excellent dip for carrots, cauliflower and celery too! 


Susan Tandy 
ESTHER’S MAYONNAISE 
1 15 oz. can Eagle Brand 1 teaspoon salt 
condensed milk dash pepper 
1/2 cup vinegar or lemon juice 1 egg 
1 teaspoon dry mustard 1/2 cup salad oil 
Blend 2 minutes until thickened. Chill for use. Makes 2 1/2 cups. 
Ruth Anne Munro 
REMOULADE SAUCE 
1 small onion, grated 1 cup mayonnaise 
2 cloves garlic, shopped (optional) 1 teaspoon dry mustard 
1/2 cup chili sauce 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 
1/2 cup Wesson oil 2 dashes paprika 
1/4 teaspoon red pepper 2 dashes tabasco 


Mix all ingredients together. Stir well. Sauce can be refrigerated for a long 
period of time. 


Madge Collier 


oy 


FREDA’S SALAD 


I large pkg. raspberry gelatin 1 large container Cool Whip 
1 can crushed pineapple, strained 1/4 cup nuts, chopped 


Mix gelatin according to directions and congeal. Add remaining ingredients 
and beat with electric mixer. Congeal again. 


Jackie Burns 


CRANBERRY SALAD 
1 can jellied cranberry sauce 6 oz. pkg. lemon gelatin 
1 13 oz. can crushed pineapple 1 cup ginger ale 


Add water to juice from drained pineapple to make 1 cup. Heat juice and dis- 
solve gelatin in it. Let cool slightly. Add ginger ale. Let congeal slightly in 
refrigerator. Add cranberry sauce and pineapple. Mix well. Let congeal. 


Topping 
1 pkg. whipping topping (2 oz.) 1/2 cup nuts 
1 8 oz. pkg. cream cheese 2 tablespoons butter 


Mix topping according to package directions. Blend in softened cream cheese. 
Spread on firm salad. Toast nuts in butter. Sprinkle nuts on top. Serves 12. 


Jean Chase 
CRANBERRY-ORANGE SALAD 
2 cups white sugar 1 cup chopped nuts 
1 Ib. cranberries 1 orange 
2 pkgs. lemon gelatin | 4 cups hot water 


Dissolve gelatin in hot water; place in refrigerator until partially set. Grind 
berries and orange rind in food chopper. Pour sugar over berries and orange 
mixture, and let set until it thickens slightly. Add nuts. Fold into gelatin mix- 
ture and pour into molds. Let stand overnight in refrigerator or until firm. 


Joyce Clayton 
CRANBERRY SALAD 
1 pint raw cranberries 8 marshmallows, cut up 
4 apples 1 cup sugar 
1 cup diced celery 1 cup chopped pecans 


Grind cranberries and apples. Add diced celery and cut marshmallows. Mix 


all with sugar and add nuts. 
Mildred Garrett 


se) 


ORANGE JELLO SALAD 





1 pkg. orange Jello 1 small can crushed pineapple, | 
1 pkg. Dream Whip (prepared) drained 
1 1/2 cups miniature marshmallows. 


Prepare Jello according to package directions. Chill until partially set. Beat in | 
Dream Whip. Add pineapple and marshmallows. Mix well. Refrigerate until | 
set or overnight. 


Doris Lewis 


KOREAN SALAD (Spinach Salad) 


1 cup Wesson oil pepper to taste (optional) | 

1/4 cup vinegar 1 Ib. spinach | 

1/3 cup catsup 1 1 Ib. can bean sprouts, dramed 

2/3 cup sugar 1 15 oz. can water chestnuts 

1 medium onion, grated 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 

salt to taste 6-8 slices bacon, cooked and | 
crumbled | 





Combine oil, vinegar, catsup, sugar, onion, salt, and pepper. Let dressing stand 
while preparing salad. Wash spinach; dry with towel and tear into bite-sized 
pieces. Combine spinach with bean sprouts and water chestnuts. Toss vege- 
tables with dressing and sprinkle salad with egg and bacon. Makes 6 to 8 
servings. 


Angie Ward 


PEACHES AND CREAM DESSERT SALAD 


First Layer . 
3 oz. pkg. lemon Jello 3 oz. pkg. cream cheese (I préfer 
1 cup hot water 8 oz. pkg. cheese) 
1 cup cold orange juice 1/4 cup chopped pecans, walnuts or 
1 envelope Dream Whip almonds 


Dissolve Jello in hot water; add cream cheese and blend well. Add cold orange 

juice. Fold in prepared Dream Whip and nut meats. Congeal until solid. 
Second Layer 

1 pkg. lemon Jello 


1 cup hot water 
1 can peach pie filling 


Dissolve Jello in hot water; fold in pie filling. Pour carefully over first layer. 
Congeal. Serves ten. 
Jo Woodie 


54 





LEMON-LIME CONGEALED SALAD 


1 box lime gelatin I large can crushed pineapple, 
1 box lemon gelatin drained 
2 1/2 cups hot water 1 cup chopped pecans 


1 large can Carnation milk 


Dissolve the gelatin in the hot water. Cool. Add remaining ingredients. Con- 
geal. 
Barbara Shearer 


THREE BEAN SALAD 
1 can French-style green beans 1 large red onion, sliced 
1 can yellow wax beans 1 bell pepper, cut in strips 


1 can red kidney beans 


Dressing 
3/4 cup salad oil 1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 cup sugar 1 teaspoon pepper 


1/2 cup vinegar 


Drain beans and combine with onion and pepper. Mix dressing ingredients. 
Pour over vegetables and refrigerate overnight. Serves 8-10. 


Mrs. W. Webb White 
GERMAN SLAW 


1 large head cabbage 
2 onions 
1 bell pepper 


Shred cabbage, onions and bell pepper and mix together. 


Dressing 

1 teaspoon celery seed 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon black pepper 1 1/2 teaspoons mustard 
2/3 cup Wesson oil 2/3 cup sugar 


Bring dressing ingredients to a hard boil and pour over slaw. Put in refrigerator 
and let stand 24 hours. Be sure to cover. It can be kept in the refrigerator for 


3 to 4 days. 
Mrs. Tommy Jeffries 


“An aim in life is the only fortune worth finding.” 


a 


GELATIN DELIGHT 


2 pkgs. peach jello (or Ann Page 2 cups miniature marshmallows 
apricot gelatin) 1 cup chopped nuts 
1 large can crushed pineapple 


Drain pineapple, saving juice. Mix gelatin as directed on package. When 
slightly set, add pineapple, marshmallows and nuts. Mix and let jell. 


Topping: 

1/2 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

2 tablespoons flour 1 egg, beaten 

1/2 cup pineapple juice 1 8 oz. pkg. cream cheese 


Mix topping ingredients and cook until thick over low heat. When thick, add 


cream cheese. Spoon onto gelatin mixture and let stand 1 hour. Top with 
Dream Whip or cream and coconut. 
Martha Garmon 


ORANGE BOWL SALAD 

2 small or 1 large pkg. orange gelatin 1 No. 303 can crushed pineapple 
2 cups hot water 1 can mandarin oranges 

1 pint orange sherbet 2 bananas 


Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Immediately add sherbet; stir until sherbet 
is dissolved. When slightly thickened, add pineapple, oranges and bananas. 
Chill until firm. Serve on lettuce. 

Mrs. Arch (Kathleen) MacQueen 


Ruth Ann Munro 
HIGH PROTEIN SALAD | 
1 small pkg. strawberry gelatin 1 large can fruit cocktail, drained 
1/4 cup boiling water well 
1/2 Ib. pkg. Philadelphia Cream Cheese 1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple, 
1 pint cottage cheese drained well 
1 carton Cool Whip nuts if desired 


Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Cream together cheeses and gelatin. Fold in 


remaining ingredients and chill. 
Betty Conen 


“As idea isn’t worth a plugged nickel until somebody does something about it!’ 


56 


STRAWBERRY SALAD 


1 6 oz. pkg. strawberry gelatin 2 mashed bananas 

2 cups boiling water 1/2 pint sour cream 

1 large pkg. frozen strawberries and 1 cup chopped pecans or walnuts 
juice (optional) 


1 large can crushed pineapple and juice 


Combine gelatin and water. Add fruit, juices, and nuts. Pour half of mixture 
into mold. When firm, spread with sour cream. Carefully spoon remaining 
mixture on top. Chill. 

Dorothy Jonson 


Sue Kimbrough 
FROZEN APPLE SALAD 
1 9 oz. can crushed pineapple dash of salt 
2 eggs, beaten 1/2 cup finely diced celery 
1/2 cup sugar 2 cups finely diced apples 
3 tablespoons lemon juice 1 pkg. Dream Whip 


Drain pineapple; measure juice, add water to make 1 cup. Combine eggs, salt, 
lemon juice, and sugar. Cook over low heat until thick. Chill. Fold in apples, 
celery and Dream Whip. Put into 2-quart container and freeze. Slice and 
serve. 


STRAWBERRY DESSERT SALAD 


1 pkg. lemon gelatin 1 banana (mashed fine) 
1 18 oz. pkg. frozen strawberries 1 cup sour cream 
1 pkg. cherry gelatin 1 18 oz. can crushed pineapple 


Dissolve the 2 packages of gelatin in 1 1/2 cups boiling water. Cool. Add 
pineapple and juice, mashed banana, and thawed strawberries and juice. Pour 
1/2 of mixture in 8 x 8 x 2 inch pan. Chill until firm. Spread with sour 
cream. Pour remainder and chill. Serve with whipped or sour cream. 


Joyce Weikert 
CARROT-PINEAPPLE SALAD 
2 pkgs. (3 oz.) orange or pine-orange 2 cups carrots, grated fine 
gelatin 1 teaspoon salt 
2 cups hot boiling water 2 cups crushed pineapple and juice 


Drain pineapple, saving juice. Add enough water to juice to make 2 cups. Dis- 
solve gelatin. Add juice. Cool until partly set before adding pineapple and 
carrots. (If a firm salad is desired, cut down on liquid.) Great with chicken 

or spaghetti. 


Gen Molnar 
57 


FROZEN CRANBERRY SALAD 


1 6 oz. can frozen orange juice 1/2 pint whipping cream 
concentrate 1/4 cup sugar 
1 16 oz. can jellied cranberry sauce pinch of salt 


Thaw orange juice. Whip cream; add sugar and salt. Add orange juice and 
cranberry sauce. Beat until smooth. Freeze in paper dessert cups or decora- 
tive mold. Makes about 15 large cupcake size servings. 


A winner in Better Homes and Gardens Recipe Contest in 1965. Good with 
chicken or turkey. 
Barbara D. Turner 


SEVEN UP SALAD 

2 small pkgs. lemon or lime gelatin 2 cups miniature marshmallows 
1 3/4 cups hot water 1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple 
1 12 0z.can7 Up 3 bananas 

1 cup chopped nuts 1 small can mandarin orange 


segments 


Dissolve gelatin in hot water. Add 7-Up; let stand until cool. Add pineapple 
which has been drained (set juice aside), Add nuts, sliced bananas, marsh- 
mallows and orange segments. Refrigerate until jelled. When jelled add top- 


ping. 


Topping 

1 cup pineapple juice 1 egg 

1 tablespoons flour 1 cup whipped cream 
1/2 cup sugar grated cheese (optional) 


nuts (optional) 


Mix until well blended theffirst 4 ingredients. Cook over low heat until thick. 
Cool. Then blend in whipped cream; spread on top of salad. Top this with 
grated cheese, nuts, or both. 


Sue Kimbrough 





58 


Vege lables 





RED CABBAGE SWECKEL 


2 teaspoons salt 

1/8 teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons vinegar 

2 cups drained and cooked egg 
noodles 


1/2 cup oleo 

1 cup chopped onion 

2 Ibs. red cabbage, shredded fine 
2 tablespoons sugar 


Heat oleo in heavy Dutch oven; add onion, cook until tender. Stir in red cab- 
bage, sugar, salt, pepper and vinegar. Cook over medium heat, stirring occa- | 
sionally until tender (20 minutes). Stir in egg noodles and cook a few minutes 
until heated through. | 






Gen Molnar 


SQUASH CASSEROLE 


1 pint sour cream 

1 can cream of mushroom soup 
1/2 bag Pepperidge Farm dressing 
1 stick margarine 

1 small can mushrooms, drained 


5 yellow squash, cut in 1 1/2” pieces 

2 medium carrots, grated 

1 medium onion, chopped fine 

1 small can pimiento, chopped and 
drained 


Parboil squash until tender. Drain squash. Melt margarine and mix with dress 
ing. Place 1/2 dressing mix in bottom of casserole dish. Combine all other in-) 
gredients with squash and pour into casserole on top of crumbs. Sprinkle re- | 
maining crumbs on top. Bake, covered, 45-60 minutes at 350°. Serves 8. 


Daphne Ashworth 


SQUASH BAKE 


2 Ibs. tender yellow squash, cooked 
and mashed 

1/2 stick oleo 

1 medium onion, chopped 

1 carrot, grated 


Mix all ingredients except the dressing. Put a layer of squash, 1 layer of dress | 
ing, then another layer of each until casserole is filled. Add some buttered | 
crumbs on top and bake for 25 minutes at 350°. 


“Love thy neighbor as thyself.”’ 


1/2 pint sour cream 
1 pkg. Pepperidge Farm cornbread | 

dressing | 
1 can cream of chicken soup 


Jackie Burns 





PEA CASSEROLE 


1 can garden peas, drained 1 very small can pimientos, drained 
1 cup water chestnuts, drained and and chopped 
chopped 1 small onion, chopped fine 


1 can mushroom soup 


Mix thoroughly and pour into casserole. Crumble 3 slices of bread into 1/2 
stick of melted margarine. Toss well and sprinkle on top of peas. Bake at 
325° for 25 minutes. 


Jean Chase 
BROCCOLI CASSEROLE 
2 pkgs. frozen broccoli 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 can cream of mushroom soup 1/4 cup butter or margarine 
1 cup sharp. cheddar cheese, grated 1/2 to 3/4 cup bread crumbs 


1 teaspoon lemon juice 


Melt butter; add frozen broccoli and saute. Put soup and cheese in saucepan 
and cook over medium heat until cheese melts. Stir as cheese melts. Add 
lemon juice and Worcestershire sauce. Chop broccoli and place in baking dish. 
Cover with soup mixture. Sprinkle bread crumbs over casserole. Dot with 
butter. Place in oven, uncovered, and bake at 325 degrees until heated and 
browned, about 30 minutes. This dish can be prepared ahead and stored in 
refrigerator until ready to bake. 

Barbara Shearer 


GREEN BEAN CASSEROLE 


2 large cans green beans 
1 can cream mushroom soup 
1 can fried onion rings 


In medium casserole mix green beans and mushroom soup, top with onion 
rings. Bake at 350° for 20 minutes. 


Patti King 
ESCALLOPED POTATOES 
5 or 6 medium potatoes 1 1/2 cups milk, scalded 
3 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons butter 


1 teaspoon salt 


Slice potatoes thin. Combine flour and salt. Arrange | /3 of the slices in 
bottom of greased baking dish and sprinkle with 1/3 of the flour and salt mix- 
ture. Repeat twice and then pour on scalded milk and dot with butter. Cover 
and bake in a moderate oven at 375° for 45 minutes. Uncover and bake 15 
to 30 minutes longer or until potatoes are tender. 


Sue Kimbrough 


61 


CARMEL SWEET POTATOES 


5 lbs. sweet potatoes 
1/2 stick oleo 
canned milk 


Boil sweet potatoes. Mash. Add oleo and just enough milk to thin a little. 


Sauce 
8 tablespoons canned milk 2 cups brown sugar 
8 tablespoons oleo 1 cup chopped pecans 


Combine sauce ingredients and cook over low heat until it is the consistency 
of a medium sauce. Pour over potatoes in flat casserole. Bake 45 minutes at 


B50n! 


Susan Tandy 
RICE CASSEROLE 
1/3 stick butter or margarine 1 cup raw rice 
1 medium onion, chopped 2 cans beef consomme 


Cook chopped onion in margarine for a few minutes. Add rice and consomme. 
Bake in covered casserole at 350° for 1 hour. 


Edwina Erwin 


SWEET POTATO CASSEROLE 
1 No. 2 1/2 can sweet potatoes or 2 teaspoons vanilla 
3 medium-sized potatoes, boiled 2 egg whites, beaten stiff 
1 cup sugar 2 egg yolks 
1/2 stick butter or margarine 2 teaspoons orange peel, grated 


1 13 oz. can evaporated milk 


Use electric mixer. Add ingredients in the order listed except egg whites. Add : 


whites last and fold into mixture. Mixture will be thin and light. Pour into 
large casserole dish which has been buttered. Bake at 350° for 45 minutes or 
until firm. 


Jean Chase 

SWEET POTATO CASSEROLE 
1 large can sweet potatoes 1/2 cup evaporated milk 
3/4 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1/2 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 small can crushed pineapple and 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

juice 1/2 cup coconut or nuts 
1/2 stick oleo 1 egg 


Combine all the ingredients, using a little of the juice from the can of sweet 
potatoes to moisten. Bake at 350° for 45 minutes. 


Jackie Burns 
62 








| 


EGGPLANT CASSEROLE 


1 medium eggplant 1/2 teaspoon pepper 
1/2 teaspoon garlic salt 1 can tomatoes 
1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup cracker crumbs 


1 tablespoon butter or mavgarine 


In skillet melt butter. Saute cubed, pared eggplant with salt, pepper and garlic 
salt. Add tomatoes; cook on how heat for 10 minutes. Pour into casserole 
dish. Bake at 350° for 20 minutes. Sprinkle cracker crumbs on top. 


Patti King 


THE BEST POTATO SALAD IN THE WORLD 


6 potatoes, boiled and cubed 1 8 oz. pkg. of bologna, cubed 
8-10 eggs, boiled and sliced 1/2 onion, grated 
1 very small can each of corn, French _ green olives (optional) 

green beans, carrots, peas, all 3 stalks of celery, finely chopped 


well drained 


Mix well with mayonnaise and vinegar to taste. Bea bit daring with the vine- 
gar, pepper and salt to taste. 


Jo Woodie 
POTATO SALAD 
1/2 cup mayonnaise 2 teaspoons salt 
1/2 cup pickle, chopped celery seed 
2 tablespoons pickle juice 3 eggs 
1 teaspoon mustard small amount grated onion 


7 or 8 medium potatoes, diced 


Cook potatoes. Add other ingredients; toss and serve. 
Jackie Burns 


HOT POTATO SALAD 

6 potatoes 1 green pepper, chopped 
2-3 slices bacon salt 

1 small onion, chopped vinegar 


Dice and cook potatoes. Fry bacon. As soon as potatoes are just done, 
crumble bacon into potatoes. Add grease from bacon. Add onion and green 
pepper to mixture. Add salt and vinegar to taste. 


Virginia Pennell 


63 


BAKED PINEAPPLE 


1/2 lb. margarine 1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple 
1 cup sugar 4 slices bread, cubed 
4 eggs, beaten 


Cream margarine and sugar. Add eggs, pineapple and cubed bread. Mix well 
and pour into greased casserole. Bake 1 hour at 350°. Yummy with ham! 


Susan Tandy 
ZUCCHINI AND TOMATOES 
3 medium zucchini, sliced 1 small onion 
1/2 teaspoon garlic salt 1 can tomatoes 


1 tablespoon margarine 
In medium skillet melt butter. Saute onions. Add zucchini, tomatoes, garlic 
salt and pepper to taste. Cook over low heat for 15 minutes, covered. 

Patti King 


CHINESE RICE 


Melt 1 stick butter or margarine in Corning Ware dish. 
Add one cup minute rice and brown. 
Add 1 can onion soup and stir. 


Place in oven at 350° and bake 30 minutes or more. 


Becky Braswell 


BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

1 pkg. small white beans (dry) 1 tablespoon sugar 

1/4 Ib. salt pork 1/2 cup molasses 

1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon prepared mustard 


Soak beans overnight; drain and parboil in fresh water. Drain, saving liquid. 
Combine beans with other ingredients above, burying the pork with the rind 
exposed. Add saved liquid to cover beans. Bake 6-8 hours at 225°, covered 
in a bean pot. Add liquid as needed. Uncover for the last hour. 


Susan Tandy 


64 


CORN PUDDING 


6 ears or 1 can whole kernel yellow 1/4 cup sugar 

corn 1 1/2 tablespoons flour 
1/4 stick butter 1 teaspoon salt 
1 egg 


Melt the butter in a casserole dish in a 325° oven. Put in the corn kernels. 
Combine the remaining ingredients and add to corn. Then add enough milk 
to the casserole to make the mixture soupy. Bake 30 to 45 minutes at 325°. 


Blanche Booth 


VEGETABLE SOUP 


1 shank beef bone 
assorted vegetables of choice 


Cover a shank beef bone with cold water; cook slowly until the meat falls from 
the bones. Strain and add more water and diced vegetables, such as potatoes, 
cabbage, tomatoes, celery, corn, turnips, onions and peas. (Cook dry beans 
separately.) Boil until vegetables are tender. Season and serve. 


Joyce Clayton 
HOT GERMAN POTATO SALAD 
6 medium potatoes 2 tablespoons sugar 
1/4 Ib. bacon, diced 1/3 cup vinegar 
1 cup chopped onion 1/2 cup bouillon 
2 teaspoons salt 1 tablespoon flour 


1/4 teaspoon pepper 


Cook potatoes in boiling salted water until done, but still firm. While potatoes 
cook, saute bacon until crisp. Remove all but 2 tablespoons grease. Add 
onion; cook until golden. Add pepper, salt, sugar and flour; stir until blended. 
Add vinegar and bouillon. Cook over medium heat, stirring until thick. Peel 
hot potatoes, slice thin into casserole. Pour mixture over this and toss lightly. 


Cathy Segner 


65 


GREEN PEAS AND WATER CHESTNUTS 


1 pkg. frozen peas 1/2 cup thinly sliced celery 

1/3 cup boiling water 2 tablespoons cold water 

2 teaspoons cornstarch 1 clove garlic 

1 tablespoon soy sauce 1/2 cup (5 oz.) water chestnuts 


Cook peas in boiling water without salt. Drain peas and save 1/3 cup liquid. 
Mix cornstarch, soy sauce and cold water until smooth. Add garlic. Cook 
until clear and thickened. Add peas, water chestnuts, celery and serve. 






Blanche Booth 
VERA’S BAKED Y AMS AND APPLES 
6-8 yams (1 large can) 
5-6 baking apples, peeled and sliced 
Sauce 
1 cup sugar 1 cup water 
4 tablespoons cornstarch I cup orange juice (frozen or fresh) | 
1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter 


Mix sauce ingredients and cook in pan until thick. Butter casserole and layer 
yams and apples, beginning with yams and ending with apples. Sprinkle each 
layer well with nutmeg. Pour sauce over yams and apples. Bake at 350° 1 houz 


Eleanor Hennis 


Vise hil te 006 eg tt 


66 


Meats 


BAND DAY CHILI 


5 lbs. hamburger large can tomato juice 
small box chili powder 1/2 cup vinegar 

3 tablespoons paprika 1/2 bottle Texas Pete 
small bottle catsup salt to taste 


Mix all ingredients together and cook slowly for 2 hours. 
Betsy Gay 





68 


TAMALE CASSEROLE 


3 tablespoons oil or drippings 1 1/2 cups undrained whole kernel 
1 medium onion, finely chopped com 
1 Ib. uncooked ground beef 1 teaspoon salt 


1 tablespoon chili powder 
1/4 cup uncooked yellow cornmeal 


Put oil, onion and ground beef into a heated skillet. Cook until the meat is 
lightly browned and the onion is soft. Stir in the remaining ingredients. 
Simmer for 5-10 minutes. Then turn hot mixture into an 8 x 8 x 2 inch bak- 
ing pan or casserole. Pour Corn Bread Topping evenly over hot filling. 
Arrange 1/2 cup ripe olives over top of batter, if desired. Bake ina pre- 
heated hot oven (425°) for 25-30 minutes or until crust is lightly browned. 
6-8 servings. 


Corn Bread Topping 


1/2 cup flour 1/2 cup milk 

1/2 cup yellow cornmeal 1 large egg, beaten 

1 1/4 teaspoons double-acting 3 tablespoons melted butter or oleo 
baking powder 

1/2 teaspoon salt 


Sift dry ingredients into a small bowl. Add milk, egg and butter. Stir toa 
smooth batter. This topping covers the filling in a thin layer but it is a suffi- 
cient amount. 


Barbara Lou Allen 
BIG DINNER CASSEROLE 
1 4 oz. pkg. noodles, cooked 1 teaspoon salt 
1 lb. ground beef 2 tablespoons fat 
1 1/2 cups chopped onion 1/8 teaspoon pepper 
2 cups chopped celery 1 to 2 teaspoons soy sauce 


3 tablespoons chopped green pepper 1 10 1/2 or 11 oz. can condensed 
tomato soup 


Arrange cooked noodles in greased 2 quart casserole. Cook meat, onion, 
celery and green pepper in hot fat until onion is golden. Season. Add soy 
sauce and tomato soup; heat to boiling. Pour over noodles. Bake at 350 


for 30 minutes. 
Barbara L. Allen 


69 


TEXAS HASH 


3 large onions, sliced 2 1/2 cups cooked tomatoes 
1 large green pepper, minced 1 cup rice 

I lb. ground beef 1 teaspoon chili powder 

2 teaspoons salt 1/8 teaspoon black pepper 


Cook onions and pepper in 3 teaspoons fat until onions are yellow. Add beef 
and fry until mixture falls apart. Stir in tomatoes, rice, chili powder, salt and 
pepper. Pour into a greased 2 quart casserole. Cover and bake 1 hour or 
slightly more at 350°. Remove cover for last 15 minutes. 


Ercelle Stone 


MAGGIE’S DINNER 

2 Ibs. ground beef 1 12 oz. pkg. noodles 

salt 1/2 Ib. grated Mozzarella cheese 
Sauce | 


1 can tomato soup 
1 cup hot water 
1 large can spaghetti sauce | 


| 
Brown meat and pour off fat. Cook noodles and drain. Mix sauce, meat and 


noodles in large casserole. Bake at 350° for 25 minutes. Add cheese and bake 
uncovered until cheese melts. 
Ruth Anne Munro | 

| 





AUNT BERTHA’S MEAT BALLS 

1 to 1 1/2 Ibs. ground meat 1 cup milk 

3/4 cup uncooked oats 3 tablespoons chopped onion | 
1/4 teaspoon pepper 1 to 1 1/2 teaspoons salt (according | 
6 tablespoons chopped onion to amount of meat) | 


Mix above ingredients. Shape into small balls or patties. Brown on both sides. 


Sauce 

3 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce 1 cup catsup 
3 tablespoons vinegar 1 cup water 
2 tablespoons sugar 


Mix sauce ingredients in pan. Pour over browned meat. Reduce heat to low 
Or simmer. Cover and cook 45 minutes - 1 hour. Can simmer longer with no 
damage. 

Madge Collier 


70 


ONION-BEEF MACARONI CASSEROLE 


1 1/2 Ibs. ground beef 2 cups water 
1 envelope Lipton Onion Soup mix 1 cup macaroni, cooked 
1 tablespoon flour 1/4 cup grated cheddar cheese 


1 8 oz. can tomato sauce 


In large skillet brown meat; drain off excess fat. Stir in Lipton Onion Soup 
mix, flour, tomato sauce and water. Simmer, covered, five minutes. Stir in 
macaroni. Turn intoa 1 1/2 quart casserole. Sprinkle with cheese. Bake 15 
minutes in preheated oven at 400°. Makes 6 servings. 


Martha Garmon 


LASAGNE 

2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1/2 teaspoon oregano 

1 clove garlic, minced 2 6 oz. cans tomato paste 

1 medium onion 3 cups hot water 

1 lb. ground beef 1/2 Ib. lasagne noodles 

2 teaspoons salt 1/2 lb. cottage cheese 

1/4 teaspoon pepper 1/2 Ib. Swiss or mozzarella cheese 


Brown beef in frying pan with the vegetable oil, garlic, onion, salt, pepper and 
oregano. Add the tomato paste and 3 cups of water. Cook sauce until done. 
Cook noodles in water with a little oil added. Ina large baking dish, put a 
layer of sauce, noodles, cottage cheese, and Swiss cheese. Repeat this, ending 
with the Swiss cheese on top. Bake in a 350° oven for 30 minutes. Cool at 
least 15 minutes before serving. 


Millie Waller 
BEEF NOODLE CASSEROLE 
1 8 oz. pkg. noodles 1 8 oz. can tomato sauce 
3/4 cup chopped onion 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 
3/4 cup chopped green pepper 1/2 teaspoon chili powder 
1 lb. ground beef pepper to taste 
1 can cream style corn 1 4 oz. can chopped pimiento 
1 can tomato soup, undiluted 1 8 oz. can ripe olives, sliced 


Cook noodles according to package directions. Brown onion, green pepper 
and ground beef in a pressure cooker. Add remaining ingredients. Place 
mixture in a casserole dish in alternate layers with noodles. Top with 1 cup 
grated cheese. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Serves 6. 


Daphne Ashworth 


ial 


CHILI CON CARNE 


1 1/2 Ibs. ground beef 2 large cans tomatoes 
1 large onion, chopped 3 small cans red kidney beans 
1 green pepper, chopped (optional) 1 or 2 teaspoons salt 


2 or 3 cloves garlic, minced (optional) 3 or 4 tablespoons chili powder 


Brown beef in skillet. Remove to large pan. Saute onion, pepper and garlic 
until soft, then combine with meat. Add tomatoes and beans and heat. Add 
salt and chili powder to taste. Simmer 1/2 hour or more. (May be made with 
cooked, dried kidney beans.) 

Dorothy Jonson 


PORCUPINES 

1/2 cup water 1/2 cup chopped green pepper 
1 Ib. lean ground meat 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 

3/4 cup raw rice 1 can Campbell’s tomato soup 
1/2 cup chopped onion 1 1/2 soup cans of water 


Mix all ingredients except soup and water. Shape into one-inch balls. Heat 
soup and water in skillet. Add meat balls and cook in covered skillet over 
very low heat for 20 minutes, or in 250° oven for 2 hours. Recipe makes 24 
balls and serves about 6 or 8. 


Jo Woodie 
HAMBURGER CASSEROLE 
3 Ibs. ground chuck 1 teaspoon ginger 
1 stick margarine 1 teaspoon cloves 
3 large green peppers, chopped 3 teaspoons celery salt 
2 cups celery, chopped 3 teaspoons garlic salt 
1 can tomato paste 1 tablespoon hot sauce 
1 can tomato sauce 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 pint canned tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 
1 can mushrooms, chopped 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 1/2 Ibs. small egg noodles 
3 large onions, chopped 3 cups grated medium sharp cheese 


Brown meat; set aside. In large frying pan melt margarine and saute the pep- 
pers, onions and celery until soft. Add tomato paste, sauce, tomatoes, mush- | 
rooms and the seasonings. Let simmer a few minutes, stirring frequently. 
Add the meat and cook a bit longer. Cook noodles by directions on package. 
In large casserole, put a layer of meat sauce about 1 1/2 inches deep, then 
spread all the noodles, drained, over the meat layer. Then spread another 
layer of meat sauce over the noodles. Cover and bake 45 minutes at 300° 
Uncover, sprinkle grated cheese over casserole and bake until melted. 
Freeze any remaining sauce and use for another batch. This recipe is also 
good warmed over. Makes 16 servings. 

Becky Braswell 


ie 


CABBAGE HAMBURGER CASSEROLE 


1 medium cabbage, shredded 
2 onions, diced 
1 Ib. hamburger, browned 


1/2 Ib. sharp cheese, thinly sliced 
1 can tomatoes, drained 


salt and pepper to taste 


Boil cabbage and onions in a little water until tender. Place alternate layers of 
cabbage mixture, hamburger, cheese and tomatoes in a casserole. Season to 
taste. Bake in a covered casserole 45 minutes at 350°. Uncover 10 minutes 
before taking out and add more cheese to top. 


OVEN POTPOURRI 


1 Ib. ground chuck 
1 medium onion, chopped 
1 medium green pepper, chopped 


approximately 1 cup cooked spaghetti 


Mary Hafer 


1 can cream of mushroom soup 

1 can (16 oz.) mixed vegetables, 
drained 

2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce 

salt and pepper to taste 


Saute meat, onion and green pepper. Add remaining ingredients. Mix and 
pour into a 2 quart casserole. Cover; bake in 350° oven for 45 minutes. 


SWEET AND SOUR MEAT LOAF 


1 egg, beaten 
1/4 cup minced onion 
1/4 cup crushed crackers 


Sauce 


1 8 oz. cup tomato sauce 
1/4 cup brown sugar 


Mrs. Cloy Wells 


2 Ibs. hamburger 
1 1/2 teaspoons salt 
1/4 teaspoon black pepper 


1/4 cup vinegar 
1 teaspoon vinegar 


Mix sauce. Take 1/2 cup of the tomato sauce mixture and add to remaining 
ingredients. Shape meat into oval loaf. Place in shallow baking dish. Pour 
the rest of the tomato sauce mixture on top. Bake at 400° for 45 minutes. 


Serves 8. 


MEAT LOAF 


2 Ibs. ground beef 
1 small can Spanish rice 
4 or 5 slices bread, cubed 


Gen Molnar 


Mix and bake at 325° for approximately 1 hour. 


Jay McHuffman 


ITALIAN MEAT LOAF 


1 1/2 Ibs. ground beef grated parmesan cheese 
2 small cans tomato sauce 1/2 teaspoon oregano 
3/4 cup saltine crackers salt to taste 


8 oz. (8 1 oz. slices) mozzarella cheese 


Preheat oven to 350°. Combine ground beef, cracker crumbs, oregano, salt 
and 3/4 of 1 can of tomato sauce. Place combined ingredients on flat surface 
and roll out toa 10 to 12 inch circle. Cover circle with mozzarella cheese. 
Sprinkle parmesan cheese over the top. Roll up, place in long shallow baking 
pan and cover with remaining tomato sauce. Cook for 1 hour, uncovered, in 
a 350° oven. 


Barbara O’Neal 
CHOW MEIN 
1 lb. ground beef 1 can Chinese fancy vegetables, 
1 onion, diced drained 
1 can chow mein noodles 1 can beef gravy 
2 tablespoons soy sauce salt and pepper to taste 


Brown meat and onion well. Add beef gravy, soy sauce, salt and pepper; mix. 
Add drained vegetables. Heat thoroughly. Spread noodles on serving platter. 
Top with meat mixture. 


Madge Collier 
STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS 
3 large green peppers 2 tablespoons diced onion 
2 teaspoons salt 1 cup tomatoes (sauce, fresh or 
1 lb. ground beef stewed, etc. may be used) (if 
1 1/2 cups cooked rice catsup, dilute with half water 
spices as desired (chile powder, hot and half catsup) 


pepper, garlic, etc.) 


Mix beef, salt, rice, onions, spices and tomatoes together. Cut green peppers 
in half and clean. Place above mixture in green peppers. Bake around 50 
minutes (until meat is well cooked) at 350° F. Five minutes before being 
done, grated cheese may be sprinkled over tops and peppers returned to oven 
until cheese is melted. 

Billie Hamilton 


74 


DELICIOUS ROAST BEEF 


1 beef roast, any kind I teaspoon onion salt 

carrots 1 teaspoon red paprika 

potatoes 1 onion, chopped (optional) 

1 tablespoon salt 1 green pepper, chopped (optional) 
1 teaspoon celery salt 1/2 teaspoon pepper 


Mix seasonings and rub into both sides of roast. Brown roast on both sides. 
Add onion and green pepper. Add 1 cup water, and put in oven. Roast 
slowly 3 1/2 hours at about 275°. At proper time, add carrots and potatoes. 
When done, remove carrots, potatoes and meat. Add 1/4 cup flour to 1 cup 
water and stir into juices to make delicious gravy. No seasoning needed in 


gravy. 


HAMBURGER CORN PONE PIE 

1 Ib. ground beef 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
1/3 cup chopped onion 1 cup canned tomatoes 

1 tablespoon shortening 1 cup drained kidney beans 

3/4 teaspoon salt 1/2 pkg. muffin mix or 1/2 recipe 
2 teaspoons chili powder corn bread 


Brown meat and chopped onions in melted shortening. Add seaosning and 
tomatoes; cover and simmer over low heat 15 minutes. Add kidney beans. 
Pour meat mixture into greased 1 1/2 quart casserole. Top with cornbread 
batter, spreading carefully with wet knife. Bake in hot oven 425° 20 minutes. 


Mrs. Arch (Kathleen) Mac Queen 


DOUBLE CHEESE MEAT ROLL 

1 1/2 Ibs. ground beef 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egy 1/2 teaspoon oregano 

3/4 cup cracker crumbs 1/8 teaspoon pepper - 

1/2 cup chopped onion 2 cups shredded mozzarella or 
2 8 oz. cans tomato sauce with cheese cheddar cheese 


Combine beef, egg, cracker crumbs, onion, 1/3 cup sauce with cheese, salt, 
oregano and pepper. Mix well and shape into a flat rectangle about 10” x 12” 
on waxed paper. Sprinkle mozzarella cheese evenly over meat mixture. Roll 
up like a jelly roll and press ends of roll to seal. Bake in shallow baking pan at 
350° for 1 hour. Drain excess fat, pour remaining sauce over roll and bake 


15 minutes more. 
Virginia Pennell 


75 


MEAT LOAF 


1-1 1/2 lbs. ground beef 3/4 cup oats, uncooked 
2 eggs, beaten 1 small onion, chopped 
1 small bell pepper, chopped 2 teaspoons salt 

1/4 teaspoon pepper 1/2 cup tomato catsup 


Combine all ingredients, except ground beef. Add to ground beef, mixing 
thoroughly. Pack firmly into 9 x 5 x 3 inch loaf pan. Cover with a thin layer 
of tomato catsup. Bake in 350° oven for 1 hour. Let stand 5 minutes before 
slicing. 

Martha Garmon 


STUFFED STEAK 

1 large round steak salt 

1 can sliced mushrooms pepper 

1 medium onion, chopped fine flour for dredging 
1 cup water fat for browning 
Stuffing 


2 cups prepared stuffing 
1 stick butter or margarine 


1 egg 


Beat steak with mallet until it is as thin as possible. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Cover with chopped onions and sliced mushrooms. Mix 2 cups pre- 
pared stuffing according to package directions, using butter and egg plus 
amount of water called for. Spread stuffing evenly over steak. Roll up jelly- 
roll style as tightly as possible. Tie in 5 or 6 places (count your ties so that 
you are sure to remove all after cooking). Dredge in flour. Brown on all sides 
in hot fat. Add 1 cup water; cover and bake at 350° for 2 1/2 hours. Uncover 
during last 15 minutes. Garnish with carrots and potatoes or mushrooms. 


Eleanor Hennis 


STEAK AND NOODLES 
2 Ibs. round stead (1/2 inch thick, 1/2 cup chopped celery 
cut in cubes) 1 cup sour cream 
3 tablespoons fat 1 8 oz. can tomato sauce 
1 medium onion, chopped 1 teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons flour 1/8 teaspoon pepper 
1 3 oz. (3/4 cup) can browned 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 


mushrooms and broth 


Brown meat in fat. Add onion and garlic and cook until golden. Stir in flour. 
Add remaining ingredients; mix thoroughly. Turn into greased casserole 

(3 quart). Bake uncovered in moderate oven (325°) until meat is tender 
(about 1 1/2 hours). Serve on noodles or mashed potatoes. 


Buz MacNeill 


MUSCATROLLI 


1 box seashell macaroni 

1 Ib. hamburger 

1 Ib. sharp cheddar cheese 
1 large onion 

1 small can tomato paste 


1 can water 

1 bay leaf 
dash oregano 
dash rosemary 
dash thyme 


Boil seashell macaroni in large container of water according to package direc- 
tions. Meanwhile in large skillet saute chopped onion and hamburger meat 
until brown. Add grated cheese; stir until melted. Add tomato paste, water 
and spices. Cover and cook five minutes; stirring occasionally. Add drained 
sea shells; cover and cook another five minutes. May be removed to a casserole 
and heated in oven until serving time or served directly from skillet. 


This recipe was first developed by a group of men who meet every year in 
Chicago for a packers’ convention. The original recipe appeared in Brown’s 


“Southern Cooking.” 


WESTERN HASH 


1 Ib. ground beef 

1 (1 Ib. 12 oz.) can tomatoes 
1 cup green pepper, chopped 
1/2 cup onion, chopped 


Miriam P. Winslow 


1/2 cup uncooked rice 
1/2 teaspoon basil 
dash pepper 

Velveeta cheese 


Brown ground beef; add tomatoes, green pepper, onion, uncooked rice, basil 
and pepper. Cover and simmer 25 minutes, stirring occasionally. Top with 
cheese and heat in oven until it melts. Serves 6. 


SPEEDY STROGANOFF 


1 large onion 

1 can (3 02.) sliced mushrooms, 
drained 

3 tablespoons margarine 

3/4 lb. boneless sirloin, cut into 
small pieces 

1/4 teaspoon pepper 


Sue Kimbrough 


1/8 teaspoon Accent 

1/8 teaspoon garlic powder 
1/2 teaspoon paprika 

1 cup sour cream 

2 cups cooked rice or noodles 
1/2 teaspoon salt 


Saute onions and mushrooms in margarine over low heat in skillet or electric 
frying pan. Add steak; stir frequently until lightly browned on all sides. Mix 
spices together and stir into meat mixture. Simmer for about 5 minutes. Add 
sour cream just before serving. Do not let mixture boil. Serve over rice or 
noodles. Serves 3 to 4. Uses about half of a sirloin steak; freeze the rest for 


another time. 


Barbara D. Turner 


BEEF POT ROAST IN SOUR CREAM 


5 Ib. rump roast 1/2 cup water 

2 scant teaspoons salt 1 cup sour cream | 
white pepper 3/4 cup dry red wine | 
3 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons flour | 


1 large onion, sliced 


Rub roast well with salt and pepper. Brown on both sides in butter. Place | 
onion slices on top. Add water, sour cream and wine. Cover and cook slowly’ 
on top of stove or in oven for 3 hours until tender, adding more wine if neces- 
sary. Blend flour in liquid to make gravy. I also put carrots and potatoes in 
about an hour or so before meat is done to make a complete meal. 


Gen Molnar 


CHARCOALED ROAST | 
4 Ib. roast | 
Sprinkle roast with meat tenderizer. Marinate in sauce one hour. Put on grill 


and baste as it cooks. | 
| 


Sauce 
1/4 cup soy sauce 2 tablespoons ginger 
3/4 cup salad oil 2 cloves chopped garlic | 


2 tablespoons lemon juice 
Jackie Burns 


ORIENTAL PORK BARBECUE 
6 pork shoulder steaks 1/2 inch thick 

Marinade 

1/4 cup pineapple syrup 1/2 garlic clove 
1/2 cup soy sauce 1 tablespoon brown sugar 

1/3 cup salad oil 1/4 cup minced onion 


Marinate for 3 hours in refrigerator. Grill 15 minutes on each side, brushing 
with marinade once. 
Cathy Segner 


KRAUT-SAUSAGE DINNER 


1 can sauerkraut 
1 pkg. Polish sausage 
1 large apple 


In a medium skillet layer sauerkraut, sausage and apples. Cook on low heat 
about 20 minutes. 
Patti King 


78 


BAKED HAM 


1 ham orange juice 
black pepper 1/2 box brown sugar 
1 tablespoon mustard 2 teaspoons ground cloves 


Score ham. Sprinkle with black pepper. Mix sugar, cloves and mustard. Add 
enough orange juice to make a paste. Spread over ham. Wrap ham in foil and 
bake 30 minutes per pound at 325°. 


Jay McHuffman 
LEAN RIBS 
2 Ibs. lean ribs 
1 onion, sliced 
salt and pepper to taste 
Sauce 
1/2 cup tomato sauce 1/4 teaspoon black pepper 
1/2 cup water 1/4 teaspoon chili powder 
2 tablespoons vinegar 1/4 cup brown sugar 
1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon celery seed 
1/2 teaspoon paprika 


Mix sauce and pour over ribs and onion. Cover and cook until tender at 325° 
in electric fry pan. 


Jay McHuffman 
HAM LOAF 
3/4 Ib. ground ham 3/4 cup bread crumbs 
1/2 lb. ground veal 3/4 cup milk 
1/4 lb. ground pork salt and pepper 
2 eggs 
Glaze 


2 teaspoons prepared mustard 
1/4 cup brown sugar 
1/3 cup pineapple juice 


Mix ingredients by hand and put into loaf pan. Combine mustard and brown 
sugar and spread over ham. Pour pineapple juice on top. Bake for 1 1/2 hours 


in a 350° oven. 
Mildred Garrett 


192 


BREADED PORK CHOPS 


1/2 cup bread crumbs (fine) 
1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 
salt 


pepper 


Mix bread crumbs, cheese, and seasonings in baking dish. Cover pork chops 
on both sides. Bake about 40 minutes at 350°, turning once. This covers 5 
or 6 pork chops. 

Barbara Turner 


SPAGHETTI-TUNA CASSEROLE 
6 sprigs parsley 1/2 cup cracker crumbs 
2 7 oz. cans tuna juice of 1/2 lemon or 1 tablespoon 
2 (15 1/2 oz.) cans spaghetti with frozen lemonade 
tomato sauce 1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 egg 1/4 teaspoon pepper 


Chop parsley fine and fork tuna into small pieces. Mix parsley and tuna with 
remaining ingredients. Bake in a medium casserole for 30 minutes at 350°. 
Serves 4, 


Joyce Clayton 
CHOW MEIN CASSEROLE 
1 can cream of mushroom soup 1/4 cup finely chopped onion 
1/4 cup milk 1 can tuna 
1 cup chopped celery. 1 can chow mein noodles (crisp) 


Combine all ingredients except noodles in a 1 1/2 quart casserole. Stir in 1/2 
can of chow mein noodles and sprinkle remainder over the top. Bake at 375° 
for 30 minutes. Yield 4-6 servings. 


Roberta Sanford 
TUNA QUICKIE 
1 can cream of mushroom soup 1/4 Ib. shredded American cheese 
2/3 cup milk 1/4 cup onion, chopped 
2 1/2 cups cooked rice 1/4 cup finely cut pimiento 
2 7 oz. cans tuna, flaked 2 drops tabasco 


Mix soup and milk. Stir in rice, tuna, cheese, onion, pimiento and tabasco. 
Pour into greased 1 1/4 quart baking dish. Bake in 350° oven 30 minutes or 
until bubbly. Serves 6. 

Ruth Anne Munro 


80 


SALMON LOAF 


1 can salmon, flaked 1 cup bread crumbs, softened with 
1 egg, beaten milk 

salt and pepper 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 small onion, diced 3 tablespoons butter, melted 


Combine ingredients. Shape into loaf and bake in greased baking dish at 350° 
for 30 minutes. 


Blanche Booth 
BAKED CRAB IMPERIAL 
1 tablespoon chopped green pepper 1 teaspoon pepper 
1 teaspoon chopped parsley 1 teaspoon dry mustard 
1 egg, beaten 1 1/2 tablespoons mayonnaise 
1 teaspoon salt 1 lb. back fin crab meat 


Combine all ingredients; place in buttered baking dish or individual shells. 
Spread top lightly with additional mayonnaise. Bake twenty-five minutes at 
325°. Yield: 4 servings. 

Jean Smith 


FLAVOR-FILLED MACARONI AND CHEESE 


2 cups macaroni 1/3 cup minced onion 

2 cups thin white sauce 1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
1/4 teaspoon dry mustard 8-10 slices cheddar cheese 

dash paprika 3 medium tomatoes, sliced 


6 oz. cheddar cheese, grated 


Thoroughly grease a shallow, 2 quart casserole. Prepare the macaroni (use 
small shapes or break tubes into 2 inch pieces) according to package directions. 
Meanwhile, prepare a thin white sauce and mix dry mustard and paprika with 
flour before blending into fat. Cool sauce slightly. Add grated cheese to sauce 
allat one time. Stir sauce rapidly until cheese is melted. Blend in onion and 
Worcestershire sauce. Place one-half of the macaroni in casserole and cover 
with one-half of the sauce; repeat. Alternate and overlap cheese and tomato 
slices in a border around top of macaroni. Lightly brush tomatoes with 
melted oleo. Bake at 350° F. 25 to 30 minutes or until cheese slices are 
softened and tinged with brown. Makes 6 to 8 servings. 


Barbara Lou Allen 


“The busy bee has no time for sorrow.”’ 


81 


CHEESE SOUFFLE 


3 tablespoons minute tapioca 3 egg yolks, beaten until thick and 
1 teaspoon salt lemon-colored 
1 cup milk 3 egg whites, stiffly beaten 


3/4 cup grated American cheese 


Combine tapioca, salt and milk in saucepan. Place over medium heat and cook 
until mixture comes to a full boil, stirring constantly. Remove from heat. 
Add cheese and stir until melted. Cool slightly while beating eggs. Add egg 
yolks and mix well. Add very gradually to egg whites, folding in thoroughly. 
Turn into greased 1 1/2 quart baking dish. Place in pan of hot water and bake 
in moderate oven (350° F.) 50 minutes, or until souffle is firm. Makes 4 or 5 
servings. This souffle may be baked in greased ramekins in moderate oven 
(350° F.) 30 minutes, or until it becomes firm. 


HUNGARIAN MEAT BALLS DS eee 

1 Ib. ground veal (Do Not Use Beef) 1/4 cup fat 

1 clove minced garlic 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley 1 small can mushrooms 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup sour cream 

few grains pepper 1 cup milk 

1/4 cup milk 1 6 oz. pkg. broad noodles 
1 beatenegg 2 tablespoons poppy seed 


1/2 cup fine bread crumbs 
1 teaspoon Accent 


Form first 9 ingredients into small balls. Brown balls in fat. Remove balls, 
stir in flour, mushrooms, sour cream and milk. Cook until thickened. Add 
meatballs; simmer for 20 minutes. Serve over noodles sprinkled with poppy 
seed. 

Kathleen Mac Queen 


CHICKEN-RICE CASSEROLE 


1 pkg. wild rice 1 can mushroom soup 
1 cut up fryer 1 can water 


Place wild rice in casserole dish. Arrange fryer pieces over it. Add mushroom 
soup and equal amount of water. Cover. Bake at 350° for one hour or until 
done. 

Evelyn Holland 


82 


BARBECUED PORK AND BEAN BAKE 


2 (1 Ib.) cans baked beans brown sugar 

5 to 6 pork chops catsup 

salt and pepper onion slices 

mustard lemon slices 
parsley 


Place baked beans ina 13 x 9 x 2 inch baking dish. Sprinkle each chop with 
salt and pepper; spread lightly with mustard; sprinkle with about 1 1/2 table- 
spoons brown sugar; spread with about 1 1/2 tablespoons catsup. Arrange 
chops over beans. With toothpicks attach 1 slice onion and 1/2 slice lemon 
(optional) to each chop. Bake in slow oven (325°) for about 1 1/2 hours or 
until chops are fork tender. Garnish with parsley. 


Joyce Weikert 
SWEET AND SOUR TURKEY 
1/2 cup sugar 2 tablespoons cornstarch 
1/2 cup vinegar 2 tablespoons water 
1/3 cup pineapple juice 1 cup pineapple chunks, drained 
1/4 cup catsup 1 medium green pepper, cut in 
1 teaspoon soy sauce 1/2 inch pieces 
2 cups cooked turkey (or chicken), 
diced 


In a saucepan combine sugar, vinegar, pineapple juice, catsup and soy sauce; 
bring to boiling. Blend cornstarch and water; gradually stir into sauce. Con- 
tinue to simmer mixture, stirring constantly, until sauce thickens. Stir the 
turkey, pineapple and green pepper pieces into the thickened sauce. Heat 
mixture through, stirring constantly for about 5 minutes. Serve while hot 
with steamed rice. Makes 4 servings. (An excellent way to use leftover turkey 


or chicken). 


Sarah Casper 
CHICKEN-BROCCOLI CASSEROLE 
2 16 oz. pkgs. broccoli 1 soup can evaporated milk 
2 chickens or equivalent amount of 1 can French fried onions 
breasts grated sharp cheese 


1 can mushroom soup 


Cook broccoli until tender. Boil or bake chicken and bone. Line pan with 
broccoli, then chicken, then soup mixed with milk. Grate cheese on top; put 
layer of onion rings next. Heat at 350° for about 20 minutes or until bubbly. 


Jackie Burns 


83 


TOMATO BARBECUED CHICKEN 


1 chicken, cut up 1 can tomato soup 

flour 1 tablespoon brown sugar 

salt 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 
pepper 1 tablespoon vinegar 

shortening 1 teaspoon prepared mustard 

1/2 cup chopped celery 


1/2 cup chopped onion 


Dust chicken parts with seasoned flour and brown in small amount of shorten- 
ing. Place chicken in a 2 quart casserole. To drippings in pan add celery and 
onion. Cook until vegetables are soft. Blend in tomato soup, brown sugar, 
Worcestershire sauce, vinegar and prepared mustard. Pour over chicken; cover. 
Bake in 350° oven for about one hour. 

Betty Conen 


CHICKEN NOODLE CASSEROLE 


‘1/2 can chicken or turkey 

3 cups cooked macaroni 

1 cup white sauce or 1 can cream of 
mushroom soup 


Combine white sauce or soup with meat and macaroni. Dot with cheese if de- 
sired. Heat until hot and serve. 


Billie Hamilton 
CHICKEN AND BISCUITS 
3 cups cooked chicken, cubed 4 tablespoons flour 
2 cups milk salt and pepper to taste 
5 tablespoons chicken fat or butter 1 cup cooked peas 
1 small onion, sliced 1 cup cooked carrots 


Heat chicken fat; add onion and cook over low heat about 10 minutes until 
slightly browned. Add flour and stir until blended; add milk and stir over low 
heat until smooth and thick. Add salt and pepper to taste. Arrange chicken 
and vegetables in a large casserole; cover with the cream sauce. Top with 
canned or homemade biscuits. Bake until biscuits are done. 

Billie Hamilton 


CHICKEN OR TURKEY DELIGHT 


1 can tomatoes 1 tablespoon mustard 
1 small onion 1/2 teaspoon salt 


1 1/2 cups cooked chicken dash pepper 
1/4 cup corn syrup | 


Cook onions in tomatoes until onions are clear. Add other ingredients and 
cook 5 minutes. Serve over cooked rice. 


Billie Hamilton 
84 


BARBECUE CHICKEN OVEN STYLE 


2 (2 1/2 to 3 lb.) frozen or fresh fryers 
3 thinly sliced peeled medium onions 


Sauce 

2 teaspoons salt 1 bay leaf 

1/4 teaspoon pepper 3/4 cup vinegar 

1 1/2 cups tomato juice 1 teaspoon sugar 

1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 tablespoon brown sugar (optional) 
1/4 teaspoon dry mustard 3 minced peeled cloves garlic 

4 1/2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce 3 tablespoons butter, margarine or 


salad oil 


Heat oven to 350° F. Clean fryers, cut in halves lengthwise or quarter. Arrange 
in single layers, skin side up in roasting pan. Sprinkle with a little salt and 
pepper, pour in enough water to cover bottom of pan. Arrange onions on 
fryers, tucking a few under wings, legs. Bake uncovered at 350° for 1/2 hour, 
then turn chicken and bake 1/2 hour more. Meanwhile (or day before) make 
sauce. Simmer 10 minutes. When fryers have baked 1 hour, remove from 
oven. Pour off all but 3/4 cup (approximately) liquid. Remaining liquid may 
be saved for soups, etc. Turn fryers skin side up, pour on sauce. Bake 1 hour 
longer or until fork can be inserted easily in leg, basting often with liquid in 
pan. Makes 4-6 servings. 

Mrs. W. Webb White 


CHICKEN SQUARES 

4 generous cups cooked and diced 1/4 cup pimiento or pepper chopped 
chicken (optional) 

scant 3/4 cup of uncooked rice 1 teaspoon salt 

2 3/4 cups cubed bread 4 eggs, well beaten 

1/3 cup celery, diced 1/4 teaspoon poultry seasoning 

1 small onion, diced 2 1/2 cups chicken broth 

Sauce 


1/4-1/3 cup milk added to each can condensed mushroom soup 


Cook rice in salted.water. Rinse in hot water and drain. Add bread to broth. 
Combine chicken, celery, onion, pimiento and rice. Add chicken mixture to 
bread and broth. Add seasoning and mix. Add beaten eggs, and mix 
thoroughly. Bake in a greased 13 x 9 inch pan at 350° for 1 hour. Cut in 
squares and serve with mushroom sauce. 


Billie Hamilton 


85 


CHICKEN CASSEROLE 


2 cups chopped cooked chicken 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

3 hard boiled eggs 1 can cream of chicken soup 
1 cup chopped celery 1/2 cup almonds 

1/2 cup mayonnaise salt and pepper 


Mix in casserole and top with crushed potato chips. Cook 20 minutes in 400° 
oven. 


Blanche Booth 
SARAH’S CHICKEN 
6 chicken breasts, halved and boned 1 can mushroom soup 
1 pkg. dried beef 1 carton sour cream 
bacon 


Place dried beef in a layer on bottom of casserole dish. Wrap each half of 
chicken breast in a strip of bacon. Place on dried beef. Combine soup and 
sour cream and pour over chicken. No salt and pepper required for this dish. 
Bake at 275° for three hours. Serves 12 for a luncheon or 6 for dinner. 


Jackie Burns 


IMPERIAL CHICKEN 

2 fryers, cut up 1 cup melted butter or salad oil 
2 cups bread crumbs 2 teaspoons salt 

3/4 cup grated parmesan cheese 1/2 teaspoon pepper 

1/4 cup fresh or dry parsley 1 clove garlic, crushed 


Mix crumbs, cheese, parsley, garlic, salt and pepper. Dip each piece of chicken 
in butter, then crumb mixture, coating well. Arrange in open, shallow pan 
lined with tin foil. Pour remaining butter over chicken. Bake 1 hour until 
fork-tender in 350° oven. Baste frequently with pan drippings. 


CHICKEN CASSEROLE Sees 

1 cup rice 3/4 cup water 

1 stick margarine 8 to 10 pieces of chicken 
1 can each (undiluted): celery soup, salt and pepper 


cream of chicken soup, cream of 
mushroom soup 


Melt margarine in large baking dish. Sprinkle raw rice on margarine. In pan, 
heat soups and water. Place seasoned chicken over rice and pour soup mixture 
over all. Cover and bake at 275° for 2-2 1/2 hours. Serves 5 or 6. 


Jean Chase 


86 





HAWAIIAN FRUIT PIE 


Filling 

1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple 1 banana, sliced 

1 cup sugar 1 cup chopped nuts 
5 tablespoons flour 1 cup flaked coconut 


whipped cream 


Cook filling until thick and let cool. Bake pie crust and cool. Slice a banana 
on pie crust as thick as you like. Sprinkle chopped nuts on top of banana. 
Pour filling on this. Sprinkle coconut on top and top with whipped cream. 


Jackie Burns 


LUSCIOUS PIE 

juice of 2 lemons 1 large cup Cool Whip 

1 can Eagle Brand milk 1 large can crushed pineapple drained 
1/2 cup chopped pecans 2 graham cracker crusts 


Combine juice with milk. Add pineapple and nuts. Fold in Cool Whip. Spoon 
into crusts. Refrigerate. 


Roberta Sanford 
PINEAPPLE PIE 
1 cup drained pineapple 1 cup Eagle Brand milk 
1 container Cool Whip 1/3 cup lemon juice 


Mix liquids and add pineapple. Fold in Cool Whip. Pour into graham cracker 
pie shells and chill. 


Gen Molnar 
STRAWBERRY-JELLO PIE 
1 pkg. strawberry jello 1 can frozen strawberries 
1 medium banana whipped topping 


1 baked pie crust 


Add 1 cup boiling water to jello. Add can of frozen berries; stir. Pour into 
baked crust lined with banana slices; chill until jelled. Spread with whipped 
topping before serving. 

Patti King 


88 


JELLO PIE 


i small pkg. raspberry jello 1 prepared pie shell 
1 small pkg. frozen raspberries whipped cream 
1 pint vanilla ice cream 


Thaw frozen fruit. Drain liquid into measuring cup. Add enough cold water 
to make 1 cup of liquid. Heat liquid and add to jello being sure jello is dis- 
solved. Fold in ice cream until evenly mixed. When mixture begins to set 
fold in the fruit. Pour into prepared pie shell and refrigerate. Serve topped 
with whipped cream. 


Doris Lewis 


LIMEADE DESSERT 
1 can frozen limeade concentrate 1 can Eagle Brand sweetened con- 
1 container Cool Whip densed milk 


few drops green food coloring 


Add all ingredients and mix well. Pour into graham cracker crust. Store in re- 
frigerator until served. 


Mrs. Evelyn Holland 


CHOCOLATE FUDGE PIE 

1/2 cup oleo 1 square bittersweet chocolate 
1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

1/2 cup flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Melt oleo and chocolate in saucepan. Add sugar; stir until sugar is dissolved. 
Beat eggs well. Add chocolate mixture to eggs and mix well. Add flour and 
vanilla; mix. Pour into greased and lightly floured pyrex 9 inch pie pan. Bake 
25 minutes at 325°. Serve with ice cream or whipped cream. 


CHOCOLATE PIE Madge Collier 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs, separated 

2 rounded tablespoons flour, plain 1 cup milk 

2 rounded tablespoons cocoa 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 

1 rounded tablespoon butter or 1 pie shell, baked 
margarine 


Mix the sugar, flour and cocoa in a small container until well blended. Melt 
butter in an iron skillet. Add the dry ingredients to the butter and mix lightly. 
Beat egg yolks until lemon colored; add milk to eggs and beat together. Add 
the egg mixture to the ingredients in the skillet gradually, stirring constantly. 
Cook slowly until thick. Add vanilla; pour into a cooled pie shell. Cover with 
stiffly beaten egg whites for Sa an Place in oven until the meringue is 

only an iron skillet. 
golden brown. Use only aiiae Am. 

89 


CHOCOLATE PIE 


1 cup sugar 1/4 cup cocoa 

pinch of salt 1 1/2 cups milk 

2 whole eggs 1/2 cup evaporated milk 
1/3 cup flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Mix dry ingredients. Add eggs, then all 2 cups of milk. Beat mixture with egg © 
beater or hand mixer as it cooks. Cool until the thickness you desire. Cool; 
add vanilla. Pour into baked pie shell and top with whipped cream. It can be 
garnished with grated chocolate. 


Joan Comer | 
MRS. C’S CHOCOLATE PIE 
1 cup sugar 3 tablespoons flour 
2 tablespoons cocoa 1 cup milk | 
3 egg yolks 1 tablespoon butter 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


Makes 1 pie. Use cast iron skillet only. | 
Mix sugar, flour and cocoa; add butter and lightly beaten egg yolks. Add milk 
gradually and mix well. Place on medium heat. Cook until thickened, ek 
continually. Add vanilla just before removing from heat and before real eis) 
Pour into baked pie shell. Top with meringue. 


Madge Collier 
CHESS PIE | 
1 stick margarine, melted 1 tablespoon corn meal 
1 1/2 cups sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons vinegar | 
3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla | 





Melt margarine. Slowly add sugar and eggs. Add corn meal, vinegar and 
vanilla. Pour into uncooked pie shell. Bake at 350° for 10 minutes, then at 
325° for 30-40 minutes. 


Millie Waller 
COCONUT CREAM PIE 
3 eggs pinch of salt 
2/3 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 1/2 cups milk 1 can coconut 


Mix all ingredients and pour into uncooked pie shell. Bake at 350° until 
brown on top (approximately 30 to 45 minutes). Makes 1 pie. 


Millie Waller 


90 





PECAN PIES 


1 box light brown sugar 1/2 cup melted butter 
2 tablespoons flour 2 teaspoons vanilla 
1/2 cup milk 2 cups pecans 

2 eggs 2 unbaked pie shells 


This recipe makes two pies. Mix all ingredients together and pour into un- 
baked pie shell. Bake at 350° until almost firm. 


Roberta Sanford 


CHOCOLATE CHESS PIE 

1 1/2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 1/2 tablespoons cocoa 1/2 stick butter, melted 
dash of salt 1/2 cup of nuts 

1 small can milk 


Combine all ingredients over low heat. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Pour into 
inbaked pie crust. Bake at 350° for 45 minutes. 


Mrs. Charles Watkins 


CHOCOLATE CHESS PIE 

1 1/2 cups sugar 4 eggs, beaten 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup brown sugar 

4 tablespoons cocoa 2 teaspoons vanilla 

1 1/2 cups milk 4 tablespoons melted margarine 


Combine first 3 ingredients and mix. Then alowly add remaining ingredients. 
Mix well and pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake in 350° oven until firm and 


crust is done. 
Mrs. Evelyn Holland 


COCONUT-PINEAPPLE PIE 

2 cups white sugar 1 3 1/2 oz. can coconut 
2 tablespoons self-rising flour 1 8 1/4 oz. can pineapple 
4 eggs, beaten 1 stick margarine, melted 


Combine sugar and flour. Add remaining ingredients. Pour into unbaked pie 
shell. Cook at 350° until done (approximately 45 minutes). 


Becky Braswell 


91 


OLD FASHIONED EGG CUSTARD PIE 


3 eggs 1/2 cup sugar 
1/8 teaspoon salt 2 enns scalded milk 
1 teaspoon vanilla 1/2 teaspoon nutmeg 


Beat eggs until light and foamy. Add sugar and salt. Blend well. Add milk 
and vanilla. Line 9 inch pie pan with pastry shell. Brush pastry with melted 
butter if desired. Pour custard into pastry shell. Sprinkle with nutmeg. Bake 


10 minutes at 450°; reduce heat to 350° and continue to bake for 25 minutes. 


Madge Collier 
COCONUT PIE 
2 eggs 1 cup milk 
1 cup sugar 1 can coconut (2/3 cup) 
2 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons butter 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


Mix eggs, sugar and flour. In saucepan melt butter and add milk, vanilla and 
coconut. Combine two mixtures. Pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake at 400° 
for 45 to 50 minutes. 

Dot Robinson 


EGG CUSTARD 

4 large or 5 medium eggs 1 can Eagle Brank milk 

1 1/4 to 1 1/2 cups sugar, according 5 tablespoons self-rising flour 
to taste 2 teaspoons vanilla 


1/2 cup butter or 1 stick margarine 


Cream together eggs, sugar, butter and flour. Add milk and flavoring. Then 
add 2 cups of water to the mixture, stirring constantly. Place in uncooked 
crusts, and cook in 325° oven for 45 minutes. Makes two pies. 


Millie Waller 
VANILLA WAFER PIE CRUST 
1 1/4 cups crushed vanilla wafers 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 
1/4 cup light brown sugar 6 tablespoons (2/3 stick) butter or 


margarine, melted 


Mix first 3 ingredients. Blend in melted butter. Pat into 9 inch pie plate. 
Bake 6 minutes in 400° oven. 
Millie Waller 


oh: 





PECAN PIE 


3/4 cup dark brown sugar (not 3 eggs (beaten separately ) 
packed) 1 cup nuts 
3/4 cup dark Karo syrup 1/2 stick margarine 


1/2 teaspoon vanilla 


Beat eggs; add other ingredients. Bake 10 minutes at 450°, then reduce to 
350° and bake 30 minutes more. 


Millie Waller 
GERMAN SWEET CHOCOLATE PIE 
1 pkg. (4 oz.) Baker’s German 1/8 teaspoon salt 
Chocolate 2 eggs 
1/4 cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 
i 2/3 cups evaporated milk (large can) 1 1/3 cups coconut 
1 1/2 cups sugar 1/2 cup chopped nuts 


3 tablespoons cornstarch 


Melt chocolate with butter over low heat; stir until blended. Remove from 
heat, gradually blend in milk. Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt. Beat eggs and 
vanilla, and add to cornstarch mixture. Blend in chocolate mixture. Pour 
into unbaked pie shells. Mix coconut and nuts, sprinkle over pie mixture. 
Bake at 375° for 45 to 50 minutes. Cool 4 hours before serving. Makes 2 
pies. CAUTION: Topping tends to brown too quickly. Cook with foil over 
pies until last fifteen minutes. 


Millie Waller 
JAPANESE FRUIT PIE 
1 1/2 sticks margarine 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla 
1 1/2 cups sugar 1 cup raisins 
2 tablespoons flour 1 cup pecans 
3 eggs, well beaten 1 cup coconut 


Cream margarine, sugar and flour. Mix together eggs and vanilla and add to 
sugar mixture. Add raisins, pecans and coconut. Pour into unbaked pie shells. 
Bake at 325° for 40 minutes. Makes 2 pies. 


Millie Waller 


93 


A FIREPLACE MOTTO 


The beauty of the house is order; 

The blessing of the house is contentment; 
The glory of the house is hospitality; 

The crown of the house is godliness. 


LIVE FOR SOMETHING. Do good 
and leave behind you a monument of 
virtue that the storm of time can 
never destroy. 

Write your name in kindness, 
love and. mercy on the hearts of 
people you come in contact with; 
you will never be forgotten. 


94 





WHITE FRUIT CAKE 


1/2 lb. green candied cherries 4 cups plain flour 
1/2 Ib. red candied cherries 2 cups sugar 
8 slices candied pineapple 1 teaspoon baking powder 
2 Ibs. or 2 boxes white raisins 1 can Baker’s Angel Flake Coconut 
4 cups nuts (pecans or walnuts) 3 sticks or 3/4 Ib. butter 
10 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 


1 oz. bottle each vanilla and 
almond flavoring 


Cut fruit in pieces. Sift flour, baking powder, and salt over fruit. Set aside. 
Blend sugar into melted butter, then eggs — one at a time. Blend in flavoring 
and coconut. Pour over fruit and nuts. Mix well. Pour into tins 3/4 full that 
have been greased and lined with brown paper. Turn oven on when first mix- 
ing. For first 40 minutes — bake at 250°. For the next hour — bake at 220°. 
For the next 40 minutes — bake at 200°. Put pan of water in bottom of oven 
while baking. Slow baking gets best results. 


Roberta Sanford 
FRESH APPLE CAKE | 
1 1/4 cups oil 1 tablespoon salt 
2 cups sugar 3 peeled tart apples, cut into small 
3 eggs pieces 
3 cups plain flour 1 cup chopped nuts 
1 tablespoon soda 1 tablespoon vanilla 


Combine oil, sugar and eggs and beat for 3 minutes at medium speed. Sift dry 
ingredients together and beat into the above. Add apples, nuts and vanilla. 
Bake in a greased and floured tube or Bundt pan 325° for 1 1/4 hours. 
(Batter will be very thick.) To prepare icing, bring ingredients to a boil. Cool 
a little and then pour over cooked cake while still warm. 


Icing 
3/4 stick margarine 
1 cup brown sugar 
2 tablespoons milk 
Jean McConnell 


96 





ST. TIMOTHY’S CAKE 


1 stick oleo 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 stick butter 1/4 teaspoon salt 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 eggs 1 cup nuts 

1/2 teaspoon vanilla 1/2 cup raisins 

2 cups flour 1/2 cup sour cream 


Combine all ingredients. Pour into a greased tube pan. Sprinkle the top with 
extra cinnamon and sugar. Bake for 1 hour at 350~. After cooked sprinkle 
with cinnamon and sugar again. 

Roberta Sanford 


RAW APPLE CAKE 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon baking soda 

3 eggs, beaten lightly 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon vanilla 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 cup raisins 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 cup Wesson oil 4 apples, peeled and chopped fine 
2 cups flour (unsifted) 


Mix sugar and eggs. Add balance of ingredients and mix together. Do not 
beat. (It is very thick dough.) Bake in a greased 9 x 13 pan for 45 minutes- 
1 hour at 350°. 


Icing (Optional 
1 large pkg. cream cheese 1 stick margarine 
1 Ib. confectioners sugar 1 tablespoons vanilla 


Beat all ingredients together. Add milk to thin if needed. 
Angie Ward 


WHITE FROSTING 


2 egg whites (at room temperature) 
1 cup white Karo syrup 
1 teaspoon vanilla 


Put in bowl and beat until of spreading consistency. Will not harden. This is 


like seven minute frosting. 
Gen Molnar 


a 


CHOCOLATE SAUCE 


2 cups sugar 2-3 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons cocoa 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup milk 


Cook first 3 ingredients for 10 minutes after it boils. Then add butter and 
vanilla. 
Roberta Sanford 


ORANGE FROSTING 

2 egg whites, unbeaten 2 tablespoons orange juice 
3/4 cup sugar 1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1/4 cup light corn syrup 1/4 teaspoon salt 


grated rind of 1 orange 


Mix in top of double boiler. Place over boiling water; beat with beater until 
frosting stands in peaks. 


Joyce Clayton 
WENDY’S FUDGE SAUCE 
2 cups sugar 1/2 stick margarine 
3 tablespoons cocoa 2/3 cup milk 


Combine ingredients in medium-sized saucepan. Boil 5 minutes, stirring fre- 
quently. Serve over ice cream or cake. 
Barbara D. Turner 


FLUFFY WHITE FROSTING 

1/2 cup milk 1/2 cup shortening 
2 level tablespoons flour 1/2 cup sugar 

dash of salt drop of vanilla 


Combine milk, flour and salt. Cook over medium heat until very thick. Re- 
move from heat and refrigerate until ice cold. Cream shortening and sugar; 
add flour mixture and beat at high speed until fluffy. Add flavoring. Double 
recipe to frost both top and sides of cake. 


Gen Molnar 


“Before everything else, getting ready is the secret of success.”’......Henry Ford 


98 


CHEESE CAKE 


1 Ib. cream cheese 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 egg yolks 4 egg whites, stiffly beaten 
1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 graham cracker crust 
3/4 cup sugar 


Mix first 5 ingredients in electric mixer for 10 minutes. Fold in stiffly beaten 
egg whites. Then pour into graham cracker crust. Bake 30 minutes at 350°. 
Topping 


1/2 pint sour cream 
2 tablespoons sugar 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla 


Mix topping ingredients and spread on cooled cheese cake. Return to 350° 
oven for about 5 minutes. May be topped with fruit. 


Evelyn Holland 
VELVET CRUMB CAKE 
1 1/3 cups Bisquick 1 egg 
3/4 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
3 tablespoons shortening 3/4 cup milk 


Preheat oven to 350°. Grease pan. Mix 1/4 cup of the milk with other in- 
gredients. Beat 1 minute at medium speed. Stir in the rest of the milk and 
beat 1/2 minute longer. Pour into pan. Bake 35-40 minutes. While warm 
cover with topping. Mix butter, brown sugar, cream, coconut and chopped 
nuts. Spread topping on cake and broil 344 inches from heat until brown. 
Be careful! It doesn’t take long. 


Topping 
3 tablespoons soft butter 1/2 cup coconut 
1/3 cup brown sugar 1/4 cup chopped nuts 


2 tablespoons cream or milk 


Ruth Ann Munro 


“He that can have patience can have what he will.” 


ye 


POUND CAKE 


1/2 cup Crisco 1 cup milk 

1 cup butter or margarine 3 cups flour, plain 

3 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

5 large or 6 small eggs 1 teaspoon flavoring (your choice) 


Cream Crisco and butter. Add sugar. Beat in eggs one at a time. Add milk 
alternately with flour. Add vanilla and flavoring of your choice. Pour into 
greased and floured tube pan. Put in cold oven and bake at 325° for 1 1/2 
hours. Do not open oven door until time is almost up. Let cake cool in pan 
on rack for 10-15 minutes before turning out. When cool, frost with icing 
below. 


Icing 
1 box confectioners sugar 1/3 cup hot water 
1/2 cup Crisco 1 teaspoon flavoring 
Mrs. Tommy Jeffries 
CHRISTMAS CUP CAKES 
2 cups sugar 1 can applesauce 
3/4 cup butter 1/2 Ib. red and green candied 
3 cups flour cherries 
1 teaspoon alspice 3 slices candied pineapple 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 2 cups raisins 
1 teaspoon nutmeg 1 cup chopped dates 
1 teaspoon soda 3 eggs 
2 cups nuts, chopped 3/4 cup apple brandy 


Cut fruits up; add brandy; soak overnight. Cream butter and sugar. Add apple 
sauce, soda, eggs and spices. Mi x well. Add flour mixing well. Add nuts 
plus fruit mixture and any brandy not soaked up into fruits. Fill cup cakes 
about 1/2 full. Bake 20 to 30 minutes in 350° oven. 


These are very good if baked about 1 month ahead of time and stored in tin 
boxes with tight lids. 
Mrs. McManaway 


“Money will buy a pretty good dog, but it won’t buy the wag of his tail.’’ 


100 





CARROT CAKE 


2 teaspoons cinnamon 3 cups sugar 

2 teaspoons soda 4 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 cups vegetable oil 
3 cups flour 3 cups grated carrots 


Mix carrots into dry ingredients. Add eggs and oil; stir thoroughly. Bake in 
four layers at 350° for about 30 minutes or until done. Ice when cool with 
recipe below. 


Icing 
8 oz. pkg. of cream cheese 1 teaspoon vanilla flavoring 
1 stick butter or margarine 1/2 cup chopped nuts (optional) 


1 box powdered sugar 


For thicker filling, increase amount of cream cheese; however, the above recipe 
is quite adequate to fill and ice the cake. 


Jo Woodie 
DATE CAKE 
Batter 
1 pkg. dates, chopped 1/2 teaspoon soda 
1 cup boiling water 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1/2 cup shortening 1/4 teaspoon salt 
1 cup sugar 1 cup chopped nuts 
2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 


1 1/2 cups flour 


Cut dates in fine pieces and dissolve in 1 cup boiling water with 1/2 teaspoon 
soda. Stir over very low heat until dissolved. Let cool. Combine remaining 
batter ingredients. Fold in cooled date mixture. Bake at 350° F. Take out 
of oven when done and pierce with fork over top and sides. Let cool while 
topping is being prepared. 

Topping 

1 cup brown sugar 

1/2 cup orange juice and pulp 

Combine topping ingredients and cook over low heat until sugar dissolves. 
Do not boil. Pour over warm, fork-pierced cake. 


Barbara Lou Allen 


101 


RED VELVET CAKE 


2 eggs 1 1/2 cups Wesson oil 

1 1/2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon cocoa 

1 cup buttermilk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 1/2 cups plain flour 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon vinegar red cake coloring (small bottle) 


Mix ingredients together all at once. Makes 3 layers. Bake at 35 0° for 25 
minutes. 


Icing for Red Velvet Cake 
1 box powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 8 oz. pkg. cream cheese 1 cup pecans 


1 stick margarine 


Let cream cheese and margarine stand at room temperature to get soft. Mix 
with powdered sugar, then add vanilla and nuts. 


Mrs. Charles Watkins 


CHOCOLATE POUND CAKE 

2 sticks oleo 3 cups flour, plain 

1/2 cup shortening 1/2 cup cocoa 

3 cups sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 

5 eggs 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup milk 2 teaspoons vanilla 


Cream oleo, shortening and sugar. Blend in eggs one at a time. Add sifted dry 
ingredients alternately with milk. Add vanilla and blend well. Pour into 
greased tube pan and bake at 325° for 1 hour and 45 minutes. 


Jane Beamer 


JELLO CAKE 


1 box Duncan Hines white cake mix 1 box strawberry Whip & Chill 
2 small boxes or 1 large box strawberry 1 large Cool Whip 
Jello 


Bake the cake according to package directions in a 9 x 13 inch pan and let 
cool. Take fork and make holes down through the cake. Mix Jello using only 
half the usual amount of water (2 cups). Let cool. Pour cool Jello down 
through cake and put in refrigerator for 1/2 hour or until cool. Mix Whip and 
Chill and let set a few minutes. Spread over top of cake. Return to refrigera- 
tor until set. Then spread on Cool Whip. This keeps in the refrigerator for a 
week. 

Angie Ward 


102 


VANILLA WAFER CAKE 


1 cup butter or margarine 1/2 cup milk 
2 cups sugar 2 cans Angel Flake coconut (7-8 0z.) 
6 eggs 1 cup nuts, chopped 
1 12 oz. box vanilla wafers, crushed 
(3 cups) 


Cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Add eggs one at a time, beating 
well after each. Add crushed wafers alternately with milk, beginning and end- 
ing with the wafers. Add coconut and nuts and mix well. Pour into greased 
and floured tube pan. (Do not use Teflon.) Bake at 350° for 1 hour and 15 
minutes. Let cake cool completely before removing from pan. 


Ercelle Stone 


Phyllis Patterson 
CHEESE CAKE 
1 cup hot water 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 box lemon Jello 1 8 oz. pkg. Philadelphia cream 
1 teaspoon lemon juice cheese 
1 large can evaporated milk, chilled 1/2 cup sugar 
Crust 


40 graham crackers, crushed 
1/4 lb. melted butter 
2 tablespoons sugar 


Dissolve Jello in hot water. Add lemon juice; set aside and cool. Whip chilled 
milk; add vanilla. Blend cheese and sugar until smooth. Combine cheese, 
whipped milk and Jello and whip until smoothly blended. Pour in graham 
cracker crust and chill in refrigerator. Use a large pyrex dish for this recipe. 


Submitted by Barbara Shearer 


7—UP POUND CAKE 


1 1/2 cups butter 3 cups flour 
3 cups sugar 2 tablespoons lemon extract 
5 eggs 3/4 cup 7-Up 


Cream sugar and butter; beat until light and fluffy. Add egs one at a time; 
beat well. Beat in lemon extract, 7-Up, and flour. Pour batter into floured 
and greased 12 cup Bundt pan or angel food cake pan. Bake at 325° for 


1 hour. 
Susan Tandy 


103 


ANGEL FOOD STRAWBERRY CAKE MOLD 


1 pkg. strawberry gelatin 1 angel food cake 
1 cup hot water 2 1 pint packages frozen strawberries 
1/2 cup cold water 2 cups whipped cream 


Combine first three ingredients and let congeal slightly. Drain strawberries well, 
saving juice. Fold strawberries and whipped cream into gelatin mixture. Tear 
the angel food cake into small pieces and make alternate layers of cake and 
above mixture. Put into an angel food cake pan and let set about three hours 

in refrigerator. After the cake has been refrigerated make sauce. 


Sauce 


1 cup strawberry juice 
1 tablespoon cornstarch 
1 tablespoon butter 


Over low heat cook strawberry juice, cornstarch and butter until thickened. 
This will serve ten or more people. You can halve the recipe if you prefer. 


Virginia Pennell 


ROLLED WHEAT CAKE 

1 1/2 cups water: 1 1/2 cups flour 

1 cup rolled oats or wheat 1 teaspoon salt | 
1 stick margarine or 1/4 cup butter 1 1/2 teaspoons soda | 
1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup raisins (optional) 

2 eggs 


Preheat oven to 350° F. Boil 1 1/2 cups water in large pot. Take off heat and 
add 1 cup rolled oats or wheat. Stir well. Have butter at room temperature 
(softened). Add butter and white and brown sugars to oats and water. Mix 
well. Add eggs to mixture, one at a time. Beat well after each. Sift together 
flour, salt, baking soda, and cinnamon. Add to oats. Add raisins and stir well. 
Pour into greased 8 1/2 x 11 inch pan and bake at 350° for about 30 minutes. 


Icing 


1 cup sugar 
1/2 cup water 
3/4 cup peanut butter 


Mix sugar and water. Boil for one minute. Add peanut butter and stir well. 
When cake is done, spread on icing. Place in oven and cook for 10 more 
minutes. 

Billie Hamilton 


104 





ORANGE SLICE CAKE 


1 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups sugar 1 can Angel Flake coconut 

3 1/2 cups self-rising flour 1 Ib. candied orange slices, cut in 
4 eggs pieces 

1/2 cup buttermilk 2 cups chopped nuts 


1 Ib. chopped dates 


Cream butter and sugar and add eggs, one at a time. Add milk mixed with 
soda, flour, coconut and candy. Roll dates in flour and add to batter. Add 
nuts. Bake at 275° for 2 1/2 hours. 

Jean McConnell 

Mrs. Charles Watkins 


HERSHEY BAR CAKE 

2 sticks butter 2 1/2 cups cake flour 
2 cups sugar 1/4 teaspoon salt 

4 eggs 1/4 teaspoon soda 


8 plain chocolate candy bars, melted 1 cup buttermilk 
2 teaspoons vanilla 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs, one at a time. Add chocolate and vanilla; 
then dry ingredients and buttermilk. Bake in tube or loaf pan at 300° F. for 
one hour and thirty minutes. Frost if desired. Twelve servings. 


J. Smith 
OATMEAL CAKE 
1 cup rolled oats 1 1/2 cups flour (plain) 
1 cup shortening 1 teaspoon soda 
1 cup brown sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 cup white sugar 1/2 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 1/4 cups boiling water 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 
2 eggs : 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Pour boiling water over oats. Let stand. Mix shortening and sugars together 
and add eggs. Sift flour, soda, salt, nutmeg and cinnamon together. Add oats 
to creamed mixture, then add dry ingredients and vanilla. Bake in 9 x 13 inch 
greased pan at 350° for 25 minutes. Melt butter and add remaining topping 
ingredients. Spread over baked cake and place under broiler until bubbly. 


Topping 
1 stick butter 1 cup grated coconut 
1 cup brown sugar 1 cup chopped nuts 
Edwina Erwin 
Betty Conen 


105 


PRUNE CAKE 


3 eggs 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups sugar 1/2 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup oil 1/2 teaspoon allspice 

1 small jar baby food applesauce 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves 
(not junior food) 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 small jar baby food prunes 2 cups self-rising flour 


Beat eggs, sugar and oil well. Add remaining ingredients and blend. Pour intc 
greased and floured tube pan and bake at 300° for 1 1/2 hours. 


Jean Chase 
LOAF CAKE (Good and Easy) 
3 1/2 cups flour 1 cup shortening 
1 teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 
1 teaspoon baking powder 2 teaspoons flavoring 


2 1/2 cups sugar 5 eggs 


Sift flour, salt and baking powder together. Place all ingredients except eggs 
in bowl and mix well. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each egg. 
Bake in tube pan at 325° for one hour and 10 minutes, or until nicely aS 


Dorothy Jonson | 





STRAWBERRY CAKE | 
1 box white cake mix (Duncan Hines) 4 eggs 

3 teaspoons self-rising flour 1/4 cup water | 
1 box strawberry Jello (small) 3/4 cup frozen strawberries, | 
3/4 cup Wesson oil thawed 






Combine cake mix, flour and Jello. Mix well; then add remaining ingredients 
Pour into two 9-inch layer pans which have been greased and floured. Bake 
at 350° for approximately 20 minutes. Mix icing ingredients well and ice cak 


Icing 
1 box confectioners sugar 


1 stick butter or margarine 
1/4 cup frozen strawberries, thawed 


Roberta Sanford 


106 


RED CHRISTMAS CAKE 


1/2 cup or 1 stick butter 1 teaspoon soda 

1 1/2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 1 cup buttermilk plus 1 teaspoon 
1 oz. bottle red food coloring vinegar 

1 teaspoon vanilla 2 1/4 cups cake flour (plain) 


Cream butter, sugar, eggs, food coloring and vanilla. Sift dry ingredients to- 
gether and add alternately with buttermilk mixed with vinegar. Bake in 3 
greased and floured 9 inch pans 30 minutes at 350°. Frost after layers are 
completely cool. 


Frosting 

5 tablespoons plain flour 1 cup butter 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup sugar coconut (optional) 


To make frosting, mix flour and milk until smooth. Cook until thick. Cool. 
Cream sugar, butter and vanilla. Add flour mixture. Beat until fluffy. Add 
some coconut (small amount). 


Millie Waller 
PLAIN CAKE 
1 cup Crisco or oil 1 teaspoon lemon flavoring 
2 cups sugar * 3 cups flour 
1 cup sweet milk 2 teaspoons baking power 
4 eggs 1/4 teaspoon salt 


1 teaspoon vanilla flavoring 


*You can use self-rising flour and omit baking powder and salt. 


Combine oil, sugar, milk, eggs and flavorings until well blended. Add dry in- 
gredients and beat at medium speed two minutes. Bake one hour at 35 Gait 
is best to use tube pan for this cake or halve recipe and bake in cake pan or 
skillet. This isa good cake to use as base for any type shortcake, with sauce 
over it, as upside-down cake or just as is. 


Virginia Pennell 


FAKEY WHIPPED CREAM FROSTING 


2 tablespoons flour 1/2 cup chortening 
1/2 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 
3/4 cup sugar 


Mix flour and milk. Cook until smooth. Cool, then place in refrigerator. 
Cream shortening. Add sugar slowly. Beat until there are NO GRAINS LEFT! 
(It takes ages.) Add flour mixture and beat thoroughly. Add vanilla. 


Betty Conen 


107 


MOM’S MOIST CHOCOLATE CAKE 


1 cup sugar 1 1/2 cups flour 

1/4 cup shortening 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1 beaten egg 3 heaping tablespoons cocoa 
1 teaspoon soda 1/2 cup boiling water 

1/2 cup buttermilk 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Cream sugar and shortening; add egg. Stir baking soda into milk. Into sifter p 
flour, salt and cocoa. Add to above mixture. Mix well. Lastly stir in boiling 
water and vanilla. Bake at 350° for 30-40 minutes. 


Roberta Sanford 
APPLE PAN DAPPLE 
3 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon vanilla 5 cups tart apples, chopped 
3 cups plain flour 2 cups sugar 
1/2 cup of nuts 1 teaspoon soda 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon nutmeg 


1 1/2 cups Wesson Oil 





Mix sugar, oil and eggs. Beat well. Add flour, soda and salt. Beat again. Add | 
vanilla and spices; then apples and nuts. Bake 1 hour and 15 minutes at 325 4. 


Icing 


1 stick margarine 
1 cup brown sugar 
1/4 cup sweet milk 


Mix icing ingredients and cook 2 1/2 minutes. Cool and spread on cake. 


Jay McHuffman 
CHEESE CAKE 
1 3/4 cups crushed graham crackers 2 8 oz. pkgs. cream cheese 
1/2 cup sugar 3/4 cup sugar 
1/2 cup oleo 3 eggs 


Combine graham crackers, oleo and sugar. Press into large oblong pyrex dish. 
Mix cream cheese, sugar and eggs well. Pour on top of the cracker crumbs. 
Bake in a 350° oven for 18 minutes. Then spread topping easily over cake 
and bake 5 minutes longer. Let cool and then refrigerate. 


Topping 


2 cups sour cream 
2/3 cup sugar 
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla 


Sue Kimbrough 
108 


APPLE DAPPLE CAKE 


3 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups white sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 

1 1/2 cups vegetable oil 1 cup chopped nuts 

3 cups plain flour 3 cups finely chopped apples (4 or 
1 teaspoon soda 5 medium-sized ones) 


1 teaspoon salt 

Cream together the first three ingredients. Sift in all the dry ingredients. Add 
apples, vanilla and nuts and mix well. Bake at 350° 45-50 minutes. 

Icing 

4 tablespoons butter or margarine 


3/4 cup brown sugar 
scant 1/4 cup milk 


Melt butter, brown sugar and milk in saucepan. Boil for 2.1/2 minutes. Spoon 
over cake when still warm; stick with toothpicks to soak into cake. 


Becky Braswell 


POUND CAKE (Mama’s) 

2 sticks margarine 1 cup milk 

1/3 cup shortening 3 cups plain flour 

3 cups sugar 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
5 eggs 2 teaspoons vanilla 


Mix margarine, shortening and sugar well. Beat; add eggs. Add flour, sifted 
with baking powder, alternately with milk. Add vanilla. Cook at 350° for 
1 hour and 15 minutes. 

Roberta Sanford 


SOUR CREAM POUND CAKE (Used for Wedding Cake) 


1 cup sour cream 3 cups flour 

1 cup butter 1/4 teaspoon soda 

3 cups sugar 1 tablespoons vanilla 

6 eggs 1 tablespoon almond flavoring 


Cream butter and sour cream. Add sugar gradually while beating. Then add 
eggs one at a time, beating after each. Add flour and soda, then flavorings. 
Pour into greased 10 inch tube pan and bake for 1 1/2 hours at 350°. 


Ruth Anne Munro 


109 


SOCK IT TO ME CAKE 


1 pkg. yellow cake mix 1/4 cup sugar 
1 cup sour cream 1/4 cup water 
1/2 cup Crisco oil 4 eggs 

Filling 


1 cup chopped pecans 
2 tablespoons brown sugar 
2 teaspoons cinnamon 


Preheat oven to 375°. Ina large bowl blend cake mix, sour cream, oil, sugar, 
water and eggs. Beat at high speed until mixed. Pour 2/3 of the batter into a 
greased and floured 10 inch tube pan. (Bundt pan may be used.) Combine 
filling ingredients and sprinkle over batter in pan. Spread remaining batter 
evenly over filling mixture. Bake at 375° for 45-55 minutes until cake springs 
back when touched. Cool right side up for about 25 minutes, then remove 
from pan. 


Sue Kimbrough 
MOM’S CHOCOLATE CAKE 
1 2/3 cups white sugar 1 teaspoon soda (heaped slightly) 
1/2 cup shortening 1/2 cup cocoa 
2 eggs 1 cup sour milk (or 1 tablespoon 
2 1/2 cups flour vinegar in 1 cup sweet milk) 
1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1/2 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 to 3/4 cup hot water 


Cream together sugar, shortening and eggs. Sift together dry ingredients and 
add to mixture alternately with milk. Add vanilla and water. (May need more 
hot water. Batter is supposed to be thin.) Bake at 350° about 30 minutes in 
two 8 inch round pans or a 9 x 13 oblong pan. 


Mary Hafer 
ORANGE-RAISIN CAKE 
1 orange, medium sized 1/2 cup shortening 
1 cup seedless raisins 1 cup granulated sugar 
2 cups sifted flour 2 eggs, unbeaten 
1 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup sour or buttermilk 


1 teaspoon soda 





Peel and seed orange and put through grinder with raisins. Cream shortening 
and sugar together until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating after each. Mix 
and sift together flour, salt and soda. Add flour mixture and milk alternately. 
Add orange-raisin mixture and mix thoroughly. Bake in greased 12 x 8 x 2 
inch pan in 350° oven for 35 to 45 minutes. Spread with orange frosting 
recipe un page 


110 Joyce Clayton 


MOIST CHOCOLATE CAKE 


2 cups sugar 1/2 cup cocoa 

1 stick butter 1/4 teaspoon salt 
2 eggs 2 teaspoons soda 
1 1/2 cups boiling water 2 teaspoons soda 
2 cups flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Cream butter and sugar together. Add eggs and vanilla. Sift dry ingredients 
together and add alternately with water to the creamed mixture. Batter will 
be runny. Bake at 350° for 30 to 35 minutes. 


Joyce Weikert 
MAGGIE’S OATMEAL CAKE 
1 cup oatmeal 1 1/2 cups boiling water 
1 cup brown sugar 1 cup granulated sugar 
1 1/2 cups flour 2 eggs 
1/2 cup Wesson oil 1 teaspoon soda 


1 tablespoon cinnamon 


Mix water and oatmeal. Set aside. Mix other ingredients and add oatmeal. 
Pour into greased oblong pan. Bake at 350° for 45 minutes. 


Topping 
1 cup brown sugar 1 egg 
1 cup nuts 1 cup coconut 


1 stick margarine 


Mix topping ingredients. Spread on cake. Then place in oven for 10 more 


minutes at 350~. 
Roberta Sanford 


BUTTER-NUT CAKE 

1 cup vegetable shortening 1/2 cup self-rising flour 

2 cups sugar 1 tablespoon butter-nut flavoring 
4 eggs 1 cup sweet milk 


2 1/2 cups sifted plain flour 


Cream shortening and sugar for 10 minutes at high speed. Add eggs, one at a 
time. Sift the flours together three times, and add alternately with the milk. 
Mix until well blended. Add flavoring and mix well. Bake in a tube pan or 
Bundt pan at 325° for 1 hour and 25 minutes. 


Millie Waller 


ti 


CHOCOLATE ROLL 


8 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla flavoring 
3 tablespoons plain flour 5 tablespoons cocoa 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 pint cream, whipped and flavored 
1/2 teaspoon salt with 1 teaspoon sugar and 1 
1 cup 10X sugar teaspoon vanilla 


Separate eggs; cream egg yolks and sugar together thoroughly, beating until 
lemon colored. Sift flour, baking powder, cocoa and salt together; add this 
to egg and sugar mixture. Add vanilla and fold this mixture into stiffly beaten, 
but not dry, egg whites. Grease and line shallow pan with brown or wax paper; 
grease and flour top of paper well and pour in mixture lightly. Bake in a 375° 
oven for about 12 minutes. Turn out on damp cloth and trim crust; roll while 
hot. Cool; unroll and spread with whipped cream. Roll again and cover with 
chocolate icing. 


Icing for Chocolate Roll 
1 pkg. ( 4 oz.) Baker’s German Sweet dash of salt 


Chocolate 1/3 tablespoon butter 
4 tablespoons water 1/4 teaspoon vanilla 
1/2 cup sugar 


Combine chocolate, sugar, water and salt in saucepan; cook and stir over low 
heat, being sure to melt sugar. Remove from heat; stir in butter and vanilla 
(mixes better with electric beater). Chill and cover roll. 


Jackie Burns 


SECRET CAKE 

2 cups self-rising flour 1 cup hot water 

2 cups sugar 2 eggs, unbeaten 
1/2 cup Crisco 1/2 cup milk 

1 stick oleo 1 teaspoon vanilla 
3 1/2 tablespoons cocoa 1/2 teaspoon soda 


Sift flour and sugar and set aside. Bring Crisco, oleo, cocoa and water toa boil, 
while stirring. Pour this over flour and sugar. Add eggs, milk, vanilla and soda. 
Mix all together; pour in 9 x 13 inch pan. Bake at 350° for 35 minutes. 

While cake is hot, punch holes in it and pour the icing overtop. 


Icing 

1 stick oleo 1 box confectioners sugar 

3 1/2 tablespoons cocoa i teaspoon vanilla 
1/2 cup milk 


To make icing, bring oleo, cocoa and milk to a boil. Remove from heat and 
add sugar and vanilla. 
Roberta Sanford 


Lil 


NEVER FAIL CHOCOLATE ICING (Not Cooked) 


1/2 cup butter 1/8 teaspoon salt 

2 oz. chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 egg, beaten 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar 1 cup nuts 


Melt butter and chocolate together. Take off stove. Add beaten egg, sugar, 
salt, vanilla and lemon juice. Either mix in nuts or sprinkle on top. 


Eleanor Hennis 


LOW CALORIE SPONGE CAKE 

1 1/2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla flavoring 
1 cup Crisco 1 teaspoon lemon flavoring 
4 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 
2 tablespoons hot water 2 cups plain flour 

1/2 cup sweet milk 


Cream sugar, water and Crisco. Add remaining ingredients. Beat. Pour into a 
greased and floured tube pan or loaf pans. Bake at 350° until done. 


Jean McConnell 


ti3 








TO CUT A TIERED CAKE 


Cut vertically through the bottom layer at the edge 
of the second layer as indicated by the dotted line 
marked A; then cut out wedge-shaped pieces as 
shown by B. 


When these pieces have been served, follow the 
same procedure with the middle layer: cut vertically 
through the second layer at the edge of the top layer 
as indicated by the dotted line C; then cut out wedge- 
shaped pieces as shown by D. 


When the pieces from the second layer have been 
served, return to the bottom layer and cut along the 
dotted line E; cut another row of wedge-shaped 
pieces as shown by F. 


Three small layers remain. If the cake is a wedding 
fruit cake the top layer may be saved for anniver- 
saries. 


114 


———————— << 


ss ay 


a 4 


Food Quantities for Serving 
25, 50 and 100 Persons at Picnic 


Do you have trouble deciding how much of various foods to take to a 
picnic? Here are some suggested figures on 25, 50 and 100 servings, 
taken from “Planning Food For Institutions,” a USDA handbook: 


Food 
Sandwiches: 
Bread 


Butter 
Mayonnaise 
Mixed filling 


25 Servings 


50 slices or 

3 1-lb. loaves 
% pound 

1 cup 


(meat, eggs, fish) 1% quarts 


Mixed filling 


(sweet-fruit) 1 quart 
Lettuce 1% heads 
Meat, Poultry or Fish: 
Wieners 6% pounds 
Hamburger 9 pounds 
Ham (bone in) 14 pounds 
Turkey or chicken 13 pounds 
Fish, large 

whole (round) 13 pounds 
Fish, fillets 
or steaks 74% pounds 


Salads, Casseroles: 


Potato salad 
Scalloped potato 


Spaghetti 
Baked Beans 
Jello Salad 


ice Cream: 


Brick 
Bulk 


Beverages: 
Coffee 

Tea 
Lemonade 


Desserts: 


Watermelon 
Cake 


Whipping cream 


4% quarts 
4% quarts or 
1 12x20” pan 
1% gallons 

% gallon 

% gallon 


3% quarts 
2% quarts 


% pound and 

1% gal. water 
1/12 pound and 
1% gal. water 
10 to 15 lemons, 
1% gal. water 


37% pounds 

1 10x12” sheet 
cake 

1% 10” layer 
cakes 

% pint 


50 Servings 


100 slices or 
6 1-lb. loaves 
% to 1 pound 
2 to 3 cups 


2% to 3 quarts 


1% to 2 quarts 
2% to 3 heads 


13 pounds 
18 pounds 
28 pounds 
25 to 35 pounds 


25 pounds 
15 pounds 


2% gallons 
842 quarts 


2% gallons 
1% gallons 
1% gallons 


6% quarts 
4% quarts or 
1% gallons 


1 pound and 
3 gal. water 
1/6 pound and 
3 gal. water 
20 to 30 lemons, 
3 gal. water 


75 pounds 

1 12x20” sheet 
cake 

3 10” layer 
cakes 

1% to 2 pints 


116 


100 Servings 


200 slices or 

12 1-lb. loaves 
1% pounds 
4 to 6 cups 


5 to 6 quarts 


2% to 4 quarts 
5 tc 6 heads 


25 pounds 
35 pounds 
55 pounds 
50 to 75 pounds 


50 pounds 
30 pounds 


4% gallons 
17 quarts 


5 gallons 
2% gallons 
2% gallons 


12% quarts 
9 quarts or 
2% gallons 


2 pounds and 

6 gallons water 
% pound and 

6 gallons water 
40 to 60 lemons, 
6 gallons. water 


150 pounds 

2 12x20” sheet 
cakes 

6 10” layer 
cakes ; 

3 pints 


BAKED BEANS SUPPER FOR 100 


8 quarts dry beans 4 Ibs. salt pork 
20 quarts salad 20 doz. rolls 
4 Ibs. butter 20 pies 
4 quarts cream 2 Ibs. coffee 
HASH SUPPER FOR 100 
40 Ibs. corned beef 5 quarts salad dressing 
32 quarts potatoes 5 Ibs. butter 
20 dozen rolls 2 Ibs. coffee 
20 quarts chopped cabbage 4 quarts cream 
CABBAGE SALAD FOR 175 
20 Ibs. cabbage 4 large cans crushed pineapple 
1 1/2 quarts Miracle Whip 2 bunches carrots 
TURKEY DINNER FOR 250 
7 turkeys 75 Ibs. potatoes 
75 Ibs. butternut squash 10 bunches celery 
20 large cranberry rings 44 pies 
CHICKEN SHORTCAKE FOR 135 
60 Ibs. chicken 3 large packages Bisquick 
30 Ibs. frozen peas 17 packages Flakon Corn Mix 
12 cans cranberry sauce 2 bunches celery 
BRAISED BEEF FOR 200 
65 Ibs. stew beef harvard beets 
60 Ibs. potatoes cabbage salad 
36 pies 40 Ibs. turnips 
2 Ibs. cheese 


Ercelle Stone 


117 


BLOND BROWNIES 


2 2/3 cups sifted flour 2 1/4 cups (1 lb. box) light brown 
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder sugar 

1/2 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

2/3 cup butter or shortening, melted 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 cup semi-sweet chocolate bits raisins (optional) 


Sift together flour and baking powder and set aside. Combine salt, butter and 
sugar and blend well. Cool 10 minutes. Then beat eggs into sugar mixture 
one at a time. Add flour mixture. Stir in nuts and chocolate bits. Raisins 
may be substituted for one of these. Put batter in large greased pan (10x15) 
or 2 smaller pans. Bake at 350° for 25-30 minutes. Cool and cut into squares. 
Makes a lot in a hurry. 

Edwina Erwin 


SLAW FOR A CROWD 

3 heads cabbage, shredded 1/2 cup salt 

8 medium onions, chopped fine 6 cups sugar 

8 sweet peppers, chopped fine 3 pints vinegar 


1 or 2 carrots, chopped fine 


Combine first four ingredients. To this mixture add salt and let stand for 2 
hours. Drain and add sugar and vinegar. Do not heat. Keeps well in the re- 
frigerator over a number of days. 

Phyllis Patterson 


118 


ROASTING TIME AND TEMPERATURE (Whole Turkey) 


Read-To-Cook 
__Weight_ __ 


8 to10 
oy ek Be 
12 to 14 
14 to 16 
16 to 18 
18 to 20 
20 to 24 


(Half Turkey) 


31/2 toS5 
5 to 8 
8 to 12 


(Foil Wrapped Turkey) 


8 tol0 
10 to 12 
12 to 16 
16 to 20 
20 to 24 


Oven 


325 degrees F. 
325 degrees F. 
325 degrees F. 
325 degrees F. 
325 degrees F. 
325 degrees F. 
325 degrees F. 


Note: If turkey is roasted unstuffed, reduce time approximately 5 minutes 
per pound. 


325 degrees F. 
325 desrees F. 
325 degrees F. 


450 degrees F. 
450 degrees F. 
450 degrees F. 
450 degrees F. 
450 degrees F. 


yo 


Total Time 
_(Hours) _ 


4to 41/2 
41/2 to5 
5 to 5 1/4 
5 1/4to6 
6 to 6 1/2 
6 1/2 to 7 1/2 
PAP IOON2 


2 1/4:t0 2 1/2 
31/2to4 
4to5 


21/4 to2 1/2 
Pal 2tors 
3 to 31/4 
3 1/4 to 3 1/2 
3 1/2 to 3 3/4 


Ercelle Stone 





120 


INDEX OF RECIPES 


COOKIES 
Date Squares, 8 
Peanut Butter Cookies, 8 
Leckwar Bars, 8 
Soft Sugar Cookies, 9 
Pecan Taffies, 9 
Skillet Cookies, 9 
Texas Lizzies, 10 
Chocolate Cha Cha’s, 10 
Saucepan Cookies, 10 
Sweet Marie Bars, 11 
Brownies, 11 
Blonde Brownies, 11 
Grammy’s Molasses Cookies, 12 
Orange Balls, 12 
Delicious Tea Cakes, 12 
Lemon Squares, 12 
No Bake Chocolate Oatmeal Cookies, 13 
Peanut Butter Delight, 13 
Brownies With Karo, 13 
No Bake Cookies, 14 


APPETIZERS 
Hot Cheese Dip, 15 
Tomato And Bacon Canape, 15 
Party Sausage Balls, 15 
Iced Fruit Soup, 16 
Chilled Melon Balls, 16 
Sugared Peanuts, 16 
Petite Party Cheese Cakes, 16 
Creamy Blue Cheese Dip, 17 
Cheese Ball, 17 
Pineapple Cheese Ball, 17 
Cheese Ball, 17 
Cheese Straws, 18 
Cheese Straws, 18 
Cheese Toasts, 18 


JAMS, JELLIES, RELISHES AND SAUCES 
Pepper Relish, 20 
Sweet Cucumber Pickles, 20 
Pear Relish, 20 
Million Dollar Pickles, 21 
Pickle Relish, 21 
Seasoned Salt, 21 
Bread And Butter Pickles, 22 
Beet Pickles, 22 
Wine Jelly, 22 
Pear Preserves, 23 
Barbecue Sauce, 23 
White Sauce, 23 
Freezing Peppers, 23 121 


BEVERAGES 
Instant Russian Tea, 26 
Instant Russian Tea Mix, 26 
Instant Spiced Tea, 26 
Girl Scout Punch, 26 
Punch, 26 
Basic Party Punch, 27 
Punch, 27 
Cranberry Punch, 27 
Golden Punch, 27 
Temperance Toddy, 27 
Frosty Golden Punch, 28 
Oriental Punch, 28 
Apple Blossom Punch, 28 
Punch, 28 


SANDWICHES 
Cream Cheese—Black Olive, 30 
Pimiento Cheese, 30 
Grilled Meat, 30 
Quick Snack, 30 
Cheese-Tomato-Green Pepper, 30 


DESSERTS 
Cherry Yum-Yum, 32 
Apple Strudle, 32 
Apple Dumplings, 32 
Marshmallow Delight, 33 
Lime Lovelies, 33 
Devil’s Float, 33 
Cherry Angel Dessert, 34 
Banana Cream Pudding, 34 
Homemade Ice Cream, 34 
Country Vanilla Ice Cream, 34 
English Toffee Dessert, 35 
Cary Band Booster Ice Cream, 36 


BREADS 
Bishop Bread, 38 
Banana Bread, 38 
Pumpkin Bread, 38 
Smiley Burnette’s Buttermilk Pancakes, 38 
Apple-Nut Coffee Cake, 39 
Bread Buns, 39 
Raw Potato Pancakes, 39 
Quicky Dumplings, 40 
Quick And Easy Biscuits, 40 
Sweet Potato Nut Muffins, 40 
Popovers, 40 
Pecan Sour Cream Coffee Cake, 41 
Sour Cream Coffee Cake, 41 
Quick Doughnut Puffs, 4] 
Icebox Rolls, 42 
Cranberry Bread, 42 139 
Butterhorns, 42 


CANDIES 
Peanut Brittle, 44 
Date Loaf Candy, 44 
Easy Fudge, 44 
Peanut Brittle, 44 
Sugared Peanuts, 45 
Peanutties, 45 
Chocolate Bon Bons, 45 
Choc-Confetti Nut Roll, 45 
Cinnamon Nuts, 46 
Bourbon Balls, 46 


SALADS 
Cherry Cloud, 48 
Yum-Yum, 48 
Orange Delight, 48 
Orange Delight Salad, 48 
Congealed Almond Fruit Salad, 49 
Five Way Salad, 49 
Fruity Mallo Gelatin Dessert Or Salad, 49 
Cherry Gelatin Salad, 50 
Mandarin Orange Salad, 50 
Pineapple-Apricot Salad, 50 
Fruit Salad Dressing, 50 
Refrigerated Cole Slaw, 51 
Seven Day Slaw, 51 
Marinated Salad, 51 
Cranberry Salad, 52 
Blue Cheese Dressing, 52 
Esther’s Mayonnaise, 52 
Remoulade Sauce, 52 
Freda’s Salad, 53 
Cranberry Salad, 53 
Cranberry-Orange Salad, 53 
Cranberry Salad, 53 
Orange Jello Salad, 54 
Korean Salad, 54 
Peaches And Cream Dessert Salad, 54 
Lemon-Lime Congealed Salad, 55 
Three Bean Salad, 55 
German Slaw, 55 
Gelatin Delight, 56 
Orange Bowl Salad, 56 
High Protein Salad, 56 
Strawberry Salad, 57 
Frozen Apple Salad, 57 
Strawberry Dessert Salad, 57 
Carrot-Pineapple Salad, 57 
Frozen Cranberry Salad, 58 
Seven Up Salad, 58 


123 


VEGETABLES 
Red Cabbage Sweckel, 60 
Squash Casserole, 60 
Squash Bake, 60 
Pea Casserole, 61 
Broccoli Casserole, 61 
Green Bean Casserole, 61 
Escalloped Potatoes, 61 
Carmel Sweet Potatoes, 62 
Rice Casserole, 62 
Sweet Potato Casserole, 62 
Sweet Potato Casserole, 62 
Eggplant Casserole, 63 
The Best Potato Salad In The World, 63 
Potato Salad, 63 
Hot Potato Salad, 63 
Baked Pineapple, 64 
Zucchini And Tomatoes, 64 
Chinese Rice, 64 
Boston Baked Beans, 64 
Corn Pudding, 65 
Vegetable Soup, 65 
Hot German Potato Salad, 65 
Green Peas And Water Chestnuts, 66 
Vera’s Baked Yams And Apples, 66 


MEATS 
Band Day Chili, 68 
Tamale Casserole, 69 
Big Dinner Casserole, 69 
Texas Hash, 70 
Maggie’s Dinner, 70 
Aunt Bertha’s Meat Balls, 70 
Onion-Beef Macaroni Casserole, 71 
Lasagne, 71 
Beef Noodle Casserole, 71 
Chili Con Carne, 72 
Porcupines, 72 
Hamburger Casserole, 72 
Cabbage Hamburger Casserole, 73 
Oven Potpourri, 73 
Sweet And Sour Meat Loaf, 73 
Meat Loaf, 73 
Italian Meat Loaf, 74 
Chow Mein, 74 
Stuffed Green Peppers, 74 
Delicious Roast Beef, 75 
Hamburger Corn Pone Pie, 75 
Double Cheese Meat Roll, 75 
Meat Loaf, 76 
Stuffed Steak, 76 
Steak And Noodles, 76 


Muscatrolli, 77 124 


Western Hash, 77 

Speedy Stroganoff, 77 

Beef Pot Roast In Sour Cream, 78 
Charcoaled Roast, 78 

Oriental Pork Barbecue, 78 
Kraut-Sausage Dinner, 78 

Baked Ham, 79 

Lean Ribs, 79 

Ham Loaf, 79 

Breaded Pork Chops, 80 
Spaghetti-Tuna Casserole, 80 
Chow Mein Casserole, 80 

Tuna Quickie, 80 

Salmon Loaf, 81 

Baked Crab Imperial, 81 
Flavor-Filled Macaroni And Cheese, 81 
Cheese Souffle, 82 

Hungarian Meat Balls, 82 
Chicken-Rice Casserole, 82 
Barbecued Pork And Bean Bake, 83 
Sweet And Sour Turkey, 83 
Chicken-Broccoli Casserole, 83 
Tomato Barbecued Chicken, 84 
Chicken Noodle Casserole, 84 
Chicken And Biscuits, 84 
Chicken Or Turkey Delight, 84 
Barbecue Chicken Oven Style, 85 
Chicken Squares, 85 

Chicken Casserole, 86 

Sarah’s Chicken, 86 

Imperial Chicken, 86 

Chicken Casserole, 86 


PIES 
Hawaiian Fruit Pie, 88 


Luscious Pie, 88 

Pineapple Pie, 88 
Strawberry-Jello Pie, 88 

Jello Pie, 89 

Limeade Dessert, 89 

Chocolate Fudge Pie, 89 
Chocolate Pie, 89 

Chocolate Pie, 90 

Mrs. C’s Chocolate Pie, 90 
Chess Pie, 90 

Choconut Cream Pie, 90 

Pecan Pies, 91 

Chocolate Chess Pie, 91 
Chocolate Chess Pie, 91 
Cocoaut-Pineapple Pie, 91 

Old Fashioned Egg Custard Pie, 92 
‘Coconut Pie, 92 

Egg Custard, 92 

Vanilla Wafer Pie Crust, 92 
Pecan Pie, 93 

German Sweet Chocolate Pie, 93 
Japanese Fruit Pie, 93 125 


CAKES 


White Fruit Cake, 96 
Fresh Apple Cake, 96 

St. Timothy’s Cake, 97 
Raw Apple Cake, 97 
White Frosting, 97 
Chocolate Sauce, 98 
Orange Frosting, 98 
Wendy’s Fudge Sauce, 98 
Fluffy White Frosting, 98 
Cheese Cake, 99 


COOKING FOR A CROWD 





Food Quantities For 25,50 and 100 Perse 
At Picnic, 116 

Baked Beans Supper for 100, 117 ; 
Hash Supper For 100, 117 
Cabbage Salad For 175, 117 | 
Turkey Dinner For 250, 117 | 
Chicken Shortcake For 135, 117 | 
Braised Beef For 200, 117 | 
Blond Brownies, 118 | 
Slaw For A Crowd, 118 


Velvet Crumb Cake, 99 

Pound Cake, 100 

Christmas Cup Cakes, 100 
Carrot Cake, 101 

Date Cake, 101 

Red Velvet Cake, 102 
Chocolate Pound Cake, 102 
Jello Cake, 102 

Vanilla Wafer Cake, 103 

Cheese Cake, 103 

7—Up Pound Cake, 103 

Angel Food Strawberry Cake Mold, 104 
Rolled Wheat Cake, 104 
Orange Slice Cake, 105 
Hershey Bar Cake, 105 
Oatmeal Cake, 105 

Prune Cake, 106 

Loaf Cake, 106 

Strawberry Cake, 106 

Red Christmas Cake, 107 

Plain Cake, 107 

Fakey Whipped Cream Frosting, 107 
Mom’s Moist Chocolate Cake, 108 
Apple Pan Dapple, 108 

Cheese Cake, 108 

Apple Dapple Cake, 109 
Pound Cake, 109 

Sour Cream Pound Cake, 109 
Sock It To Me Cake, 110 
Mom’s Chocolate Cake, 110 
Orange-Raisin Cake, 110 

Moist Chocolate Cake, 111 
Maggie’s Oatmeal Cake, 111 
Butter-Nut Cake, 111 
Chocolate Roll, 7112 

Secret Cake, 1k2 

Never Fail Chocolate Icing, 113 
Low Calorie Sponge Cake, 113 


126 


COOKBOOKS ARE IDEAL GIFTS 
FOR SUCH OCCASIONS AS: 


CHRISTMAS WEDDINGS GRADUATIONS 
ANNIVERSARIES BIRTHDAYS 





A cookbook is a gift 
that is opened more than once. 





You may order as many copies of our cookbook as you wish for the 


regular price of $3.00 plus 25¢ for postage and handling. Mail your orders 
to: 


CARY BAND BOOSTERS 
Box 91 
Cary, North Carolina 27511 


(Make out checks to Cary Band Boosters.) 


FILL IN COUPON BELOW — CUT OUT AND MAIL TO ADDRESS ABOVE 


Please mail copies of your Cookbook @ each 
plus 25¢ postage and packing. 


Mail booksto: Name 
Address 


City and State 
Zip Code 


Please mail copies of your Cookbook @ each, 
plus 25¢ postage and packing. 


Mail books to: Name 






"eae 


Zip Code 


a cea ar > ZiGRSReTSaRESIESCIR. ca enters ZONES EERE ESAT E AIEEE RENT I ET 





128 








