Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


The  Artfiur  and  EUzabedi 

SCHLESINGER  LIBRARY 

on  the  History  of  Women 

inAmeiicft 


Gift  of 
Miss  Rosanond  Lamb 


L 


•  t 


...■«*■ 


I* 

i 


r 


f 


Harper' 9  Stereotype  Eiiiian. 

THB 
AMD 

HOUSEKEEPER'S  MANUAL. 

GOMTAIHUa 

lUtelvtB  for  eookrtfi, 

DIRECTIONS   FOR  CARVING. 

ALSO, 
TBS    AET    or   GOXrOMM*   TBI   MOST    nHPLS  AMD   MOIT   BICHtr  nmiUB 
BEOTBI,  SmAVIBI,  0OI7n,  (M.TKa»,  VTOBS  lAVCBI,  AMD  FCATUVUIW 
■■SBHCn  ;  PA8TRT,  PRBSBRVXf ,  ^UDDWOS,  RCKLBS,  AcC. 

■ 

wrni 

A  COMPLETE    SrSTEH    OF    COOKERY 
FOR    CATHOUC    FAAHIilBS* 

TBB  qvhxnm  or  each  article  is  accurately  stated  bt  wkmbT  aio 

MBAflORB ;   BBINO  TBB  RBfULT  OF  ACTUAL  BXPBRIBBNTS 
IMSTITUTEJ)  Ilf  TBB  ntCHBN  OF 

WILLIA]\y  KITCHINER,  M.D. 


ADAPTED   TO  THB  ^AMERICAN   PUBLIC 
BY  A  MIMICAL   GENTLEMAN. 


PBOB  TBB  LAST  LOBSON  EDITION. 


Sdp*iPotfc: 

PRIJfTED  BY  J.tr  J.  HARPER,  ffi  CUFP-ST, 

SOLE  BT  COLUNS  ABD  BANBAT,  COLUNS  AMD  CO,,  0.  ABD  C.  ABB  B.  CARTILLf- 
WILUAB  B.  OILLBT,  B.  BUSS,  O.  A.  ROORBACB,  WBXTB,  OALLAHBR,  AH0  WBlTR, 
C.  8.  FRANCIS,  WILUAB  BUBOB8S,  JB.,  ABV  M.  B.  BOLBBS ;— PBILAOBLPBXA,  B.  L. 
CARBT  ABB  A.  BABTi  AM9  JOBN  ORIOO :— AIAAMT,  O.  8TBBLB,  ABO  W.  C.  UTTIB. 

•      1830. 


80UTBERN  DISTRICT  OF  NEW-YORK,  m. 

BE  IT  fiEMEMBEBXSi,  Tb&t  on  fke  20Ui  diy  of  Novonbvv  A.  D.  18B9,iDllie  flftj^Cgiirtt  jmr  of 
tke  tBdepenhnoe  of  tba  United  Stetet  of  Annkm,  J.lc  J.  HARPER,  of  tbe  atid  dialriet,  bavn  toe- 
sitnd  in  ttiis  office  flie  title  of  a  book,  the  ri|^t  f^beraof  thejr  deim  as  Froprielor^  in  the  woidi  ml- 
lowiiK^lDwitt 

**  The  Cook^  Onde,  and  Hotntkeepei^  KbanaL  Containing  Reonpb  fivr  Cookery,  and  DinctioBi  for 
Carrinr:  abo  tte  Ait  of  Composing  the  noit  simple  and  most  hWuT  finisiwd  BroaiB,  Gravies,  Soqis, 
Sanes^  Store  Saness,  and  navoaring  Essences;  ftroy*  IVeauries,  Poddinoi,  Plckhs,  Ac.  WifliaCoai- 
^ets  Syitem  of  Coofcerr  far  CatboUc  FUnilies.  Tbe  Qoantitj  OT  eadi  Arade  is  seeonitely  slated  by 
weight  and  Measnre;  heiag  ttw  Remit  of  Actual  Experiment  institatad  in  the  Kitchen  of  William 
Kitoiner,  M.]).    Adiqpted  to  the  American  Public  by  a  Medical  Gentleman." 

In  oonfcnnitjr  to  the  Aetof  Congress  of  the  IMted  Sliies,  entitled  *<  An  Act  for  the  eocenragement  of 
Heandnc,  by  ■*qi"'»g  the  copies  of  maps,  charts,  and  books,  to  the  aothors  and  proprietors  of  saeh  eqdes, 
Coring  ihe  time  therein  mentioDed.''  And  also  toen  Act,  entitled  <*AnAet,  supplementaiy  to  an  Act, 
•nttOed  an  Act  far  fbn  enconragement  of  Leamh>&  by  securing  the  copies  of  naps,  chnrts,  and  books, 
to  flie  anOms  and  prapiieton  of  such  o6iries,  donng  the  times  therein  mentkmed,  and  estaoding  ttufc 
bencftti  thereof  to  the  arts  of  designing,  engraTiog,  ana  etching  historical  and  other  printt* 

FREDERICK  L  BETXl. 
Cltrk  ofth£  Boutfmm  Ditlrid  of  Nnb-YttrL 


'4 


^■  ~  : 


ADVERTISEiMENT. 


The  publishers  have  now  the  pleasure  of  presenting 
to  the  American  public,  Dr.  Kitchiner's  justly  cele- 
brated work,  entitled  ^  The  Cook's  Oracle,  and  House- 
keeper's Manual,"  with  numerous  and  valuable  im- 
provements, by  a  medical  gentleman  of  this  city.   - 

The  work  contains  a  store  of  valuable  information, 
which,  it  is  confidently  believed,  vnll  not  only  prove 
,  highly  advantageous  to  young  and  inexperienced  house- 
keepers, but  also  to  more  experienced  matrons — ^to  all, 
indeed,  who  are  desirous  of  enjoying,  in  the  highest 
degree,  the  good  thii\gs  which  Nieiture  has  so  Abun- 
dantly bestowed  upon  us. 

The  **  Cook's  Oracle"  has  been  adjudged,  by  con- 
noisseurs in  this  country  and  in  Great  Britain,  to  con- 
tain the  best  possible  instructions  on  the  subject  of 
serving  up,  beautifully  and  economically,  the  produc- 
tions of  the  water,  land,  and  air,  in  such  a  manner  as 
to  render  them  most  pleasant  to  the  eye,  and  agreeable 
to  the  palate. 

Numerous  notices,  in  commendation  of  the  work, 
might  be  selected  from  respectable  European  journals ; 
but  the  mere  fact,  that  within  twelve  years,  seventy 
thousand  copies  of  it  have  been  purchased  by  the  Eng- 
lish public,  is  sufficient  evidence  of  its  reception  and 
ments. 

Nbw-York,  Deceinber,  1829. 


• 


f 


VI  ntSFACX. 

receipts  so  plainly,  that  they  may  be  as  easily  underatood 
in  the  kitchen  as  he  trusts  they  will  be  relished  in  the 
dining-room ;  and  has  been  more  ambitious  to  present  to 
the  Public  a  Work  which  will  contribute  to  the  daily  com- 
fort of  all,  than  to  seem  elaborately  scientific. 

The  practical  part  of  the  philosophy  of  the  kitchen  is  cer- 
tainly not  the  most  agreeable ;  gastrology  has  to  contend 
with  its  full  share  of  those  great  impediments  to  all  great 
improvements  in  scientific  pursuits ;  the  prejudices  oi  the 
ignorant,  and  the  misrepresentations  of  the  envious. 

The  sagacity  to  comprehend  and  estimate  the  import- 
ance of  any  uncontemplated  improvement,  b  confined  to 
the  very  few  on  whom  nature  has  bestowed  a  suffidient 
degree  of  perfection  of  the  sense  which  is  to  measure  it  ;^— 
the  candour  to  make  a  fair  report  of  it,  is  still  more 
unconmion ;  and  the  kindness  to  encourage  it  cannot  often 
be  expected  from  thoise  whose  most  vital  interest  it  is  to 
prevent  the  developeinent  of  that  by  which  their  own 
importance,  perhaps  their  only  means  of  existence,  may  be 
for  ever  eclipsed :  so,  as  Pope  says,  how  many  are 

"  Condemned  in  buBiaess  or  in  arts  to  drudge, 
Witboot  a  rival,  or  witiioat  a  judge : 
An  fear,  none  aid  you,  and  few  understand/' 

Improvements  in  Agriculture  and  the  Breed  of  Cattle 
have  been  encouraged  by  premiums.  Those  who  have 
obtained  them,  have  been  hailed  as  benefactors  to  society  1 
but  the  Art  of  making  use  of  these  means  of  ameliorating 
Life  and  supporting  a  healthful  Existence'-^^CooiKaRY — ^has 
been  neglected ! ! 

While  the  cultivators  of  the  raw  materials  are  distin- 
guished and  rewarded,  the  attempt  to  improve  the  pro- 


cefiaesy  without  wlkich  n0itlier  Tegetable  nor  animal  aub- 
stancea  are  fit  for  the  food  of  man  (aatooiahiiig  to  aay),  haa 
been  ridicnledy  aa  unworthy  the  attenticm  of  a  rational 
being!! 

The  most  useful*  art— which  the  Editor  haa  choaen  to 
endeavour  to  illuirtratey  because  nobody  else  has,  and  be* 
cause  he  knew  not  how  he  could  employ  some  leisure  hours 
more  beneficially  for  mankind,  than  to  teach  them  to  com- 
bine the  ^  ttlUe"  with  the  <'  ibilce/*  and  to  increase  their 
pleasures,  witlM>ut  impaiiing  their  health,  or  impoverislttng 
their  fortune,  has  been  for  many  years  his  fitvourite 
employment ;  and  "  Tfis  Art  of  ImnGOSATme  and  Pbo- 
iiONGiNo  LiFs  B¥  FooD,  dZrC.  di^."  and  this  Work,  have 
insensibly  become  repositories  for  whatever  observations  he 
has  made  which  he  thought  would  make  us  **  Lrm  hapf7, 

Ain>  Live  LONG  ! ! !" 

The  Editor  has  considered  the  Axt  of  Cookbbt,  1aot 
merely  as  a  mechanical  operation,  fit  only  for  working 
cooks,  but  as  the  Anak^ic  part  of  the  Art  of  Physic. 

"  How  best  the  fickle  fobric  to  eawftrrt 
Of  mortal  man ;  in  bealthfal  body  how 
A  healthfhl  mind  the  longeat  to  maintain/' 

(AUCITKOKe,) 

is  an  occupation  neither  unbecoming  nor  unworthy  philo- 
sophers bf  the  highest  class :  such  only  can  comprehend  its 
importance ;  which  amounts  to  no  less,  than  not  only  the 
enjoyment  of  the  present  moment,  but  the  more  precious 
advantage  of  improving  and  preserving  healthy  and  pror 
longing  UfSy  which  depend  on  duly  replenishing  the  daily 

•  "The  only  test  of  the  utility  of  knowledge,  ie  its  promoting  the  happiness  of 
mtakind.**— Z7r.  $tark  an  Dietf  p.  90. 


fiii  niEFAci:. 

f»wfi  of  the  bsiBia  frame  with,  malaxkls  pMgntn^.iAb 
flMtrisMnt  and  easy  of  digestion. 
^  If  medicihe  he  nuiked  amosg  these  arts  which  digniff 
their  professors,  cookery  may  lay  claim  to  an  equal,  if  not 
9;  Hapcriw»  dsBtkictioD ;  iopncetd  diseases  is  siwely  a  more 
«ilraiitageoils  art  to  mankind  than  to  aire  them.  ^  Phy- . 
siciaiis  sboiild  be  good  eooka,  ai  lout  in  theory."^— Ds. 
Jf4lfBSV2uji  on  Uyp^nkmuMoiiSi  p.  516. 

Ilie  ioMned  Di^.  AEBotHnor^bBerres^ln  page  3  of  the 
pMfaee  to  his  E^^ay  en  AJimentf  that  **  the  choice  and 
Bieesare  of  the  materials  of  whi<^  our  body  is  composed, 
what  we  take  daUy  by  pounds^  is  at  least  of  as  mueh 
•mporthiKMi  as  what  we  lake  seldom,  and  only  by  ^ititii^ 
and  ipbonfuis." 

"HioBe  m  whrnn  the  organ  of  taste  is  obtuse,  ot  who  have 
been  brought  up  in  the  happy  habit  of  being  content  with 
humble  faiot  whose  health  is  so  finn,  that  it  heeds  no  arti- 
fieial  adjustment ;  who,  with  the  appetite  of  a  connorant, 
have  the  digestion  of  an  ostrich,  and  eagerly  devour  what- 
ever is  set  before  them  without  asking  any  questions  about 
what  it  is,  or  how  it  has  been  prepared — may  perhaps 
imagine  that  the  Editor  has  sometimes  been  rather  over- 
much refining  the  business  of  the  kitchen. 

"  Where  Ignorance  is  blissi  'tis  folly  to  be  wise.** 

But  as  few  are  so  fortunate  as  to  be  trained  up  to  under- 
fitand  how  well  it  is  worth  their  while  to  cultivate  such 
habits  of  Spartan  forbearance,  we  cannot  perform  our  duty 
in  registering  wholesome  precepts,  in  a  higher  degree,  than 
by  disarming  luxury  of  its  sting,  and  making  the  refine- 
ments of  Modem  Cookery  minister  not  merely  to  sensual 


giatificatioiiy  kit  at  the  nme  time  support  the  wbnHrtial 
excitement  of  ^  mens  sana  in  corpoce  saiio.** 

a  aendtiTe  palate,  aodhaTebeenaccualomedlealiixonous 
variety  of  savomry  sauceay  and  highly  aeaaened  viands ; 
those  whoy  fran  the  infirmity  of  age»  are  become  ineapeUe 
of  correcting  habits  created  by  absurd  indulgence  in  youth, 
are  entitled  to  some  considaratkm ;  end,  for  their  sake^tbe 
JBfewatto  of  Oytotoyif  are  explained  in  the  most  intettigeiit 
manner ;  and  I  have  asBisted  the  memory  of  young  cooks, 
hy  annexing  to  each  dish  the  vuious  sauces  which  usually 
accompany  it^  referring  to  their  numbers  in  the  work. 

Some  idle  idiolB  have  remarked  to  the  Autbor,  that 
*^  there  were  really  so  many  r^^srcMM  from  one  receipt  to 
another,  that  it  is  exceedin^y  troublesome  indeed ;  they 
are  directed  sometimes  to  turn  to  half  a  dozen  numbers  i" 
this  is  quite  true.  If  the  Author  had  not  adopted  this  plan 
of  trferencCf  his  book,  to  be  equally  explicit,  must  have 
been  ten  times  as  big ;  his  object  has  been  to  give  as  muth 
information  as  possible  in  as  few  pages,  and  lor  as  few 
pence,  as  possible. 

By  reducing  culinary  operations  to*  something  like  a 
certainty,  invalids  will  no  longer  be  entirely  indebted  to 
chance,  whether  they  ^all  recover  and  live  long,  and  com- 
fortably, or  speedily  die  of  starvation  in  the  midst  of  plenty. 

These  rules  Uddordns  for  the  regulation  of  the  businesB 
of  the  kitchen  ha?e  been  «Etremely  beneficial  to  the  Edi* 
tor*B  own  heahh  and  comfort.  He  hopes  they  wiD  be 
equally  so  to  others  r  they  will  help  those  who  enj<^  heahh 
to  preserve  it ;  teach  those  who  have  delicate  and  irritable 
stomachs  how  to  keep  them  in  good  temper ;  and,  with  a 


littlQ  discretion,  enable  them  to  indulge  accasionaU}^^  qqiI 
only  with  impunity,  but  with  advantage,  in  all  those  alimen* 
tary  pleasures  which  a  rational  epicure  can  desire. 

There  is  no  question  more  frequently  asked,  or  which  a 
medical  man  finds  more  difiiculty  in  answering,  to  the 
satisfaction  of  himself  and  his  patient,  than — What  do  you 
wish  me  to  eoJt?  , 

The  most  judicious  choice  of  aliment  will  avail  nothingr 
unless  the  culinary  preparation  of  it  be  equally  judicious. 
How  often  is  the  skill  of  a  pains-taking  physician  coun- 
teracted by  want  of  corresponding  attentioa  to  the  prepa>- 
ration  of  food ;  and  the  poor  patient,  instead  of  deriving 
nourishment,  is  distressed  by  ^indigestion  ! 

Pabmentier,  in  his  Co^  Pharmaeeutiquef  has  given  a 
chapter  on  the  preparation  of  food :  scnne  of  the  following 
receipts  are  offered  as  an  humble  attempt  to  form  a  sort 
of  Appendix  to  the  PharmacopiBi^iy  and  like  pharmaceutic 
prescriptions,  they  are  precisely  adjusted  by  weight  and 
mea&ur^.  The  author  of  a  cookeiy  book,  first  published 
in  1824,  has  claimed  this  act  of  industry  of  mine  as  his 
own  original  invention  ;  the  only  notice  I  shall  take  of  his 
pretensions  is  to^ay,  that  the  first  edition  of  <^  TheC^k^s 
Oracle''*  appeared  in  1817. 

By  ordering  such  receipts  of  the  CooVs  Oracle  as 
appear  adapted  to  the  case,  the  recovery  of  the  patient  and 
the  credit  of  the  physician,  as  far  as  relates  to  the  adminis- 
tration of  aliment,  need  no  longer  depend  on  the  discretion 
of  the  cook.  For  instance :  Mutton  Broths  No.  490,  or 
No.  564  ;  ToaH  and  Water r  No.  463  ;  Water  Gruel,  No. 
572 ;  Beef  TVa,  No.  563 ;  and  Portable  Soup,  No.  252. 
This  concentrated  \E«tfe7ice  of  Meat  will  be  found  a  great 


PJUDPACE.  XI 

•  » 

acquisition  to  the  c<»iifort  of  the  anoy,  the  navy,  the  tm- 
▼ellery  and  the  invalid.  By  dLatolvinff  half  an  ounce  of  it 
in  half  a  pint  of  hot  water,  you  have  in  a  few  minutes* AaJ^ 
a  fhu  cf  good  Broth  for  three  kd^pence.  The  utility  of 
such  accurate  and  precise  directioifa  for  preparing  food»  is 
to  traoeOers  incalculable4  for,  by  translating  the  receipt, 
any  person  may  prepare  what  is  desired  as  perfectly  as  a 
good  English  cook. 

He  has  also  circumstantially  detailed  the  easiest,  least 
expensive,  and  most  salubrious  methods  of  preparing  those 
highly  finished  soups,  sauces,  ragouts,  and  piqutnde  relishes, 
which  the  mo^  ingenious  "  officers  of  the  mouth"  have 
invented  for  the  amusement  of  thorough-bred  ^^grande 
gourmands" 

It  has  been  his  aim  to  render  food  acceptable  to  the 
palate,  without  being  expensive  to  the  purse,  or  offensive 
to  the  stomacii ;  nourishing  without  being  inflammatory, 
and  savoury  without  being  surfeiting;  constantly  endea- 
vouring to  hold  the  balance  equals  between  the  agreeable 
and  the  wholesome,  the  epicure  and  the  economist. 

He  has  not  presumed  to  recommend  one  receipt  that  has 
not  been  previously  and  repeatedly  proved  in  his  oum 
kiicheny  y^bich  has  not  been  approved  by  the  most  accom- 
plished cooks ;  and  has,  moreover,  been  eaten  with  unani* 
mous  applause  by  a  CommUtee  of  Tastey  composed  of  some 
of  the  most  illustrious  gastropholists  of  this  luxurious 
metropolis. 

The  Editor  has  been  materially  assisted  by  Mr.  Henry 
Osborne,  the  excellent  cook  to  the  late  Sir  Joseph  Banks ; 
that  worthy  Bresident  of  the  Royal  Society  was  so  sensible 
of  the  importance  of  the  subject  the  Editor  was  investi- 


za  nusTACB. 


gatingy  that  he  amt  his  oook  to  aasut  him  in  faiji  anlnoat 
ttak ;  and  many  of  the  reodpta  ia  this  edition  are  mueh 
impreved  by  his  suggeationa  and  corrections.  See  No.  660. 
TkU  U  the  ai^  EmgiUh  Cookery  Book  which  has  been 
wiitten  from  the  real  experiments  of  a  houodeeeper  for  the 
benefit  of  hoUBektepere;  which  4hie  reader  will  soon  per* 
eeiTe  by  the  minute  attention  that  has  been  employed  lo 

* 

elucidate  and  improve  the  Art  rf Plain  Cookery;  detailing 
OMny  particulars  and  precautions,  which  may  at  first  appear 
(livolouS)  but  which  experience  will  prove  to  be  essential : 
to  teach  a  common  cook  how  to  provide»  and  to  prepare^ 
eommon  food  so  fmgallyy  and  so  peHectly^  that  the  piam 
eoery-dayfamUpfare  of  the  shmI  economkai  kouodueperf 
may,  with  scarcely  additional  expense,  or  any  additional 
trouble,  be  a  eatisfactorp  etUertainiment  for  an  epicure  or 

T 

Un  tMMHMf  • 

fiy  an  attentive  consideration  of  ^^the  Smdimewte  of 
Cookery^**  and  the  respective  rece^>ts,  the  most  ignorant 
naciee  in  the  bueiness  of  the  kitchen,  may  w<M'k  witfi  the 
utmost  facility  and  certainty  of  success,  and  soon  become 
a  good  took. 

Will  all  the  other  books  of  cookery  that  ever  were 
printed  do  this  ?  To  give  his  readers  an  idea  of  the 
immense  labour  attendant  upcm  thb  Work,  it  may  be  only 
necessary  fcur  the  Author  to  state,  that  he  has  patiently 
through  more  than  two  hundred  cookery  hooks 
belbre  he  set  about  recording  these  results  of  his  own 
ei^penments !  The  table  of  the  w^oet  eeonomieai  fatmUy 
may,by  the  help  ctf  this  book,  be  entertained  widi  as  much 
elegmce  as  that  of  a  sovereign  prmee* 

IfOimoN,  1839. 


CONTENTS. 


PlBTACB • ir 

to  flcwBth  Edittoa Iv 

lamoDucnoii  .    .   .    i t  15 

GuliJivyCiiftoiitiiB i *.  SS 

iDTitatloM  to  IMnoar M 

Gwing    ...^ ...49 

FiteBdiy  Advice  tQ  Cookf 4B 

Tabtoof  Wdfhtii^fce. 85 


HVDIMBIfTS  OP  COOKBBT. 

COAPTIE  1.  BoUinc M 

Baking  .    .    , »   .  IS 

^7-     IBoiMttaic 71 

•Z.  FrylBf I 80 

— —     .4.  Broilliis fB 

-  5.  VegotaUa  ■. ;  • 81 

6.  Fish  ... 86 

FisbSaaoei 88 

7.  BrotlM  and  Soupa »   .    .   80 

-  8.  GraTlea  and  Saaoea i 100 

9.  MadaDidMB 106 

Heceipta ,    .    <   .  108 

HarkeUttfTablea 356 


AFPENDIi:. 

Paatry,  Conftctionary,  Praaenrea,  dec.  ...    .^   ....    ^    .        .360 

Bread,  Itc «.S80 

Obserrationa  an  Pndffiafi  and  Plea .    .    i    .    .    .    .  .    .    .  9BS 

PlcUea aOB 

Varioua  uaeAii  Family  Beeaipia 405 

Olaervationa  on  CarViog    .....' ^ 40B 

in^9T    .......    ....).«r....i....4Sl 


IjrTRODUCTIOir. 


The  following  receipts  are  not  a  mere  marrowless  coUee- 
tiqn  of  shreds  and  patches,  and  cuttings  and  pastings,  but  a 
boni  fide  register  of  practical  facts, — acajDotulated  by  a  per- 
severance not  to  be  subdued  or  evaporated  by  the  igniferous 
terrors  of  a  roasting  fire  in  the  dog-days, — ^in  defiance  of  the 
odoriferous  and  calefacieiit  repellents  of  roasting,  boiling,  iry- 
iaSf  and  broiling; — ^moreover,  the  author  has  submitted  to 
a  labour  no  preceding  cookery-book-maker,  pei^aps,  ever 
attempted  to  encounter, — shaving  eaten  each  jreceipt  before 
he  set  it  down  in  his  book. 

They  have  all  been  heartily  welcomed  by  a  sufficiently 
well-educated  palate,  and  a  rather  fastidious  stomach : — ^per- 
haps this  certificate  of  the  reception  of  the  respective  prepa^ 
rations,  will  partly  apologize  for  the  book  containing  a  smaUer 
number  of  mem  than  preceding  writers  on  this  gratifying 
subject  have  transcribed— -for  the  amusement  of  "  every  man's 
master,"  the  stomach.* 

Numerous  as  are  the  receipts  in  former  books,  they  vary 
little  from  each  other,  except  in  the  name  given  to  them ;  the 
processes  of  cookery  are  very  few :  I  have  endeavoured  to 
describe  each,  in  so  plain  and  circumstantial  a  manner,  as  I 
hope  will  be  easily  unde^tood,  even  by  the  amateur,  who  is 
unacquainted  with  the  practical  part  of  culinaiy  concerns. 

Old  housekeepers  may  think  I  have  been*  tediously 
minute  on  many  points  which  may  appear  trifling;  my  pre- 
decessors seem  to  nave  ebnsideredthe  rvdihebtts  of  cookery 
quite  unworthy  of  attention.  These  little  delicate  distinc- 
tions constitute  all  the  difference  between  a  common  and  aA 
elegant  ta^le,  and  are  not  trifles  to  the  youi^g  housekeepers 
who  must  learn  them  eitherfromthe  communication  of  others 
or  blunder  on  till  their  own  slowly  accumulating  and  dear- 
bought  experience  teaches  them. 

• 

*"The  STOMACH  is  the  arand  oivan  of  the  hunaii  lysteii],  upon  Uie  state  of 
wbich  all  tbe  powers  and  feelings  of  tbie  individual  depend.*'— S00  Hvmter's  Ote- 
UiMhp.  13. 

"Tiie  fticulty  tbe  stomach  has  of  oommunicating  tlfe  impressions  made  by  the 
various  substances  that  are  put  Into  it,  is  such,  that  it  seems  more  like  a  nervous 
expansion  of  tbe  brainy  than  a  ^re  receptacle  for  food^^^-Dr.  WATSKBavsA* 
iMtwre  tm  Healtki  p.  4. 


.  :^.r 


16  1NTS0D17CTZ0K* 

A  wish  Ul  save  time,  trouble,  and  money  to  inexperienced 
housekeepers  and  cooks,  and  to  bring  the  eigoyments  and 
indulgences  of  the  opulent  within  reach  of  the  middle  ranks 
of  society,  were  my  motives  for  publishing  this  book.  I 
could  accomplish  it  only  by  supposing  the  reader  (when  he 
first  opens  it)  to  be  as  ignorant  of  cookery  as  I  was,  when 
I  first  thought  of  writing  on  the  subject. 

I  have  done  my  best  to  contribute  to  the  comfort  of  my 
fellow-creatures:  by  a  careful  attention  to  the  directions 
herein  given,  the  most  ignorant  may  easily  learn  to  prepare 
food,  not  only  in  an  agreeable  and  wholesome,  but  in  an  ele- 
gant and  economical  manner. 

This  task  seems  to  have  been  left  for  me ;  and  I  have  endea- 
voured to  collect  and  communicate,  in  the  clearest  and  most 
intelli^ble  manner,  the  whole  of  the  heretofore  abstruse 
mysteries  of  the  culinary  art,  which  are  herein,  I  hope,  so 
plainly  developed,  that  the  most  inexperienced  student  m  the 
occult  art  of  cookery,  may  work  from  my  receipts  with  the 
utmost  facility. 

I  was  perfectly  aware  of  the  extreme  ^fficulty  of  teaching 
those  who  are  entirely  unacquainted  with  the  subject,  and  of 
explaining  my  ideas  effectually,  by  mere  receipits,  to  those 
who  never  shook  hands  with  a  stewpan. 

In  my  anxiety  to  be  readily  understood,  I  have  been  undet 
the  necessity  of  occasionally  repeating  the  same  directions 
in  different  parts  of  the  book ;  but  I  would  rather  be  censured 
for  repetition  than  for  obscurity,  and  hope  not  to  6e  accused 
of  affectation,  while  my  intention  is  pierspicuity. 

Our  neighbours  of  France  are  so  justly  famous  {or  their 
skill  in  the  affairs  of  the  kitchen,  that  the  adage  says,  ^  As 
many  Frenchmen  as  many  cooks  :'*  swrounded  as  they  are 
by  a  profusion  of  the  most  delicious  ^ines,  and  seducing 
hqueurg  offering  every  temptation  to  render  drunkenness  de- 
lightful, yet  a  tij^ling  Frenchman  ib  a  **rara  atnji." 

They  know  how  so  easily  to.ke^  life  in  suficient  repair 
by  good  eating,  that  they  require  Uttte  or  no  screwing  up 
with  liquid  stimuli.  This  acc<Mmts  for  that  "  tmijoun  gai^^ 
and  happy  equilibrium  of  the  animal  spirits  which  they  enjoy 
with  mo^e  regularity  than  any  people :  their  elastic  stomaeha, 
ui^n^ired  by*  spirituous  liquors,  digest  vigorously  the  food 
tliey  ?i^gaciously  prepare  and  r^der  easily  assimilable,  by 
cocHLihg  it  sufficiently, — ^wisely  contriving  to  get  half  the 
work  of  the  stomach  done  by  fire  and  water,  till 

"  The  tender  morsels  tin  the  palate  mdt, 
And  aU  tbe  force  of  eoakery  is  fUt 


I 

iXTSQDUcnoir*  17 

S^  K08.  5  and  238,  ftc. 

The  eardinal  virtues  of  eookery»  ^  cusAHLmss*  rKOQMUTtf 
HovRttBMKHT,  AUD  rALATEASLnrcss,"  preside  ofer  each  pie* 
paratioii  ^  for  I  have  not  presumed  to  insert  a  single  eampo- 
sition*  without  jnreviously  obtaining  the  '^MiyWnaoltcr^  of  an 
enlightened  and  indefatigable  **  committee  of  taste,^  (com- 
posed of  thorpugh-bred  grands  gourmands  of  the  first  maff- 
nitude,)  whose  cordial  co-operation  I  cannot  too  highly 
praise ;  and  here  do  I  most  gratefuUj  record  the  imientttting 
zeal  they  manifested  during  Sieir  arduous  progress  of  pioring 
the  respective  recipes :  they  were  so  truly  philosophically 
and  disinterestedly  regardless  of  the  wear  and  tear  ef  teeui 
and  stomaqh,  that  their  labour  appeared  a  pleasure  to  ibem. 
Their  laudable  perseverance  has  enabled  me  to  give  the  in- 
experienced amateur  ah  unerring  guide  how  to  excite  as 
inuch  pleasure  as  possible  on  the  palate,  and  occasion  as 
little  tn^uble  as  possible  to  the  principal  viscera,  and  has 
haiidly  been  exceeded  by  those  determined  spirits  who  lately 
in  the  Polar  expedition  braved  the  other  extreme  of  ten^- 
rature,  &c.  in  spite  of  whalers,  bears,  iecAiergs,  and  starvatiocu 

Eveiv  attention  has  been  paid  in  directing  the  proportions 
of  the  following  eonipositions ;  not  merely  to  make  mem  in- 
viting to  the  appetite,  but  agreeable  and  useful  to  the  stomach 
•^nourishing  without  being  inflammatory,  and  savoury  with- 
out  being  smrfeiting. 

I  have  written  for  those  who  make  nourishment  tiie  chief 
end  of  eating,*  and  do  not  desire  to  Tpforokt  appetite  beyxmd 

*  I  triafe  iBiMt  beertiiy  that  the  reitontlve  bi«ce«  WIS  perl^^ 


wiio'^kMe  no  timeatUwtr.jaeBlf;  batopeo  tiielr  left  «de,aiMl  piece  the  wtele 


•neatity  at  e»ce  ill  their  efiperhe,  Own  ahttt  It^tSHheMediy  in  tte  Matt  mooUi, 
Kt  they  never  iarfolge  tbeonelvee  with  food  leore  than  twelve  tiaai  ia  a  jrew."-^ 
Mm  B»a»m  Mvmcbatobii'b  TVeeebf  p.  ISB. 

Pteaaing  the  palate  is  the  main  ead  in  oieet  booto  of  oookerjr,  hut  fli  M  «y  ecu  l« 
%Umd  tkB  t90tk*»me  with  tkewhoUg^nu ;  but,  after  aH,  however  the  hale georanaiui 
mair  at  Sntdifibrftom  me  in  opinion,  the  latter  is  the  chief  cenoem;  ainceif  hehe 
even  le  eatliely  devoted  to  the  pleaaure  of  eating  aa  to  think  of  no  oAcv,  atiU  the 
can  of  hii  health  becomee  part  of  that;  if  he  ieiiek  he  cannot  reUdiUi  food. 

**The  term gwKrmmU^  or  nnbinui,  has  been  stiaagelv  perverted;  k haabeen  eon- 
•eiTed  qFnonymoai  with  a  glutton,  *■  mi  pamr  U  Mft^tum^*  who  will  eataa  Joag  aa 
hecanikvaad  drink  longer  than  he  can  stand,  nor  leave  hie  eap  while  l»eaaliA 
it:  or  like  the  great  eater  of  Kent  whom  FtrLLna  plaem  among  Wi  worthleB,.and 
teilinathat  he  did  eat  with  eaaeift9rcy4Mm«0/^^^«M«  at  one  meal;  at  another, 
/M9«a«re  rakUt»  and  tifkUm  fmrds  of  Madk  jradwa^  London  wmwuel— or  a 
•AaildioaB  appetiie,  only  to  be  netted  ^  (bntafldc  daintiea,  aa  the  brahia  of  p«M>M*« 
or  9mrr0t$t  the  tongiieB  of  eAr««lh«e  or  lugkUKfotas^  or  the  teats  of  a  hwtiftroiis  •#«. 
t  «i  iB  the  aoceptanon  which  I  give  to  die  term  BRouRt,  it  aaeana  only  the  penon 
who  lias  good  sense  and  good  taste  enough  to  wish  to  hava-iis  food  cooked  aecord- 
iagtoseientifieprfaielpies;  thntia  to  say,  ao  prepared  that  the  palate  be  not  oOended 
— 4hat  it  be  mndered  easy  of  sQlntfoo  in  the  stomach,  und  nltimatety  contribme  to 
health ;  eaciting  him  as  an  antanal  to  the  vigovous  eqjoymmt  <rf  thoae  recreattoas 
and  duties,  physical  and  intellectaal,  which  constitote  the  happtaem  and  dignity  of 

B3 


18  dnraoDiTOTKoir. 

the  povrera  and  necessities  of  nature ;  proceeding,  however, 
on  the  purest  epicurean  principles  of  indulging  the  palate  as 
far  as  it  can  be  done  without  injury  or  offence  to  the  stomach, 
and  forbidding*  nothing  but  what  is  absolutely  unfriendly^  to 
health. 


— — -—  **  Tbat  which  is  not  food,  ii  not  delicious 
To  a  wen-govern*d  and  win  appraite."— Miltoit 

This  is  by  no  means  so  difficult  a  task  as  some  gloomy 
philosophers  (uninitiated  in  culinary  science)  have  tried  to 
make  the  world  believe ;  who  seem  to  have  delighted  in  per- 
suading you,  that  every  thing  that  is  nice  must  be  noxious, 
\t  every  thing  that  is  nasty  is  wholesome. 

"  How  cfaanninK  ifl  divine  philoaophy ! 
Not  hanb,  and  crabbed,  as  dull  fools  snppose, 
But  musical  as  is  Apollo's  kite, 
And  a  perpetual  feast  of  nectar*d  sweets, 
Where  no  crude  surfeit  relfB8.'*—BliLToii. 

Worthy  William  Shakspeare  declared  he  never  found  a 
dulosopher  who  could  endure  the  toothache  patiently : — ^the 
Editor  protests  that  he  has  not  yet  overtaken  one  who  did 
not  love  a  feast. 

Those  cynical  slaves  who  are  so  silly  as  tq  suppose  it  un- 
becoming a  wise  man  to  indulge  in  the  common  comforts  of 
Mfe,  should  be  answered  in  the  words  of  the  French  philoso- 
pher.    "  Hey— what,  do  you  philosophers  eat  dainties  V 

his  nature.**  For  this  illustration  I  am  Indebted  to  my  sctentlfic  Mend  JSMeiw 
CetihUyJun.j  with  whose  erudite  observations  eevenl  pages  of  this  went  .ara 
enriched,  to  which  I  have  afflzed  the  signature  A#C.,  Jun. 

*  "  Althoi^^h  Aia  is  more  immediately  necessary  to  life  than  roon,  the  knowledge 
of  (he  latter  seems  of  more  importance ;  it  admits  certainly  of  great  variety,  and  a 
choice  is  more  frequently  in  our  power.  A  very  spare  and  simple  diet  has  commonly 
been  recommended  as  most  conducive  to  healui ;  but  it  would  be  more  ben^icial  to 
manldnd  if  we  could  show  them  that  a  pleasant  and  varied  diet  was  equally  con- 
sistent with  health,  as  the  very  strict  regimen  of  Amard,  or  the  miller  of  Essex. 
These,  and  other  abstemious  people,  who,  having  experienced  the  greatest  extremi- 
ties of  bad  health,  were  driven  to  temperance  as  thev  last  resource,  may  run  out  in 
praises  of  a  simple  diet ;  but  the  probability  is,  that  nothing  but  the  dread  of  fernier 
suflbrings  could  have  given  tiiem  the  resolution  to  perseveit  In  so  sfarict  a  course  of 
aiietinence,  which  persons  who  are  in  health  and  have  np  such  apprehension  couhl 
not  be  induced  to  undertake,  or,  if  they  did,  would  not  Jons  continue. 

"  In  all  cases,  great  allowance  must  be  made  for  the  weakness  of  humui  nature : 
the  deshes  and  appetites  of  mankind  must,  to  a  certain  degree,  be  gratified ;  and  the 
man  who  wishes  to  be  most  useful  will  imitate  the  indulgent  parent,  who,  while  he 
endeavours  to  promote  the  true  inlerests  of  his  children,  allows  them  the  nill  eqjoy- 
ment  of  all  those  innocent  pleasures  which  they  take  delight  in.  If  it  could  be 
pointed  out  to  manktaid  that  some  articles  used  as  food  were  hurtful,  while  othera 
were  in  their  nature  innocent,  and  that  the  latter  were  numerous,  various,  and 
pleasant,  they  might,  perhaps,  be  induced  to  forego  those  which  were  hurtful,  and 
•^mifine  themselves  to  those  which  were  innocent."-^e«  Dr.  Stark*s  E^eriments. 
Sff /7ie<,  pp.  89  and90. 


nmtQDVcnoK.  19 

said  a  gay  Maiquess.  **  Do  yoa  think,''  re{»Ued  De8caetb8» 
'*  that  God  made  good  things  only  for  (mds  1** 

Every  indiTidual,  who  is  not  nerfectly  imbecile  and  void 
of  understandings  is-  an  ^nc%ir§  in  nis  own  way.  Tlie  epicures 
in  boiling  of  potatoes  are  innumerable.  The  perfection  of  all 
enjoyment  depends  on  Ihe  perfection  of  the  faculties  of  the 
mind  and  body ;  therefore,  tne  temperate  num  is  the  greatest 
epicure,  and  tne  only  true  voluptuary. 

The  pleasures  of  the  table  luive  been  highly  vppte^ 
ciated  and  carefully  cultivated .  in  all  countries  and  in  all 
ages  ;*  and  in  spite  of  all  the  stoics,  every  one  will  allow 
they  are  the  first  and  the  last  we  enjoy,  and  those  we  taste 
the  oftenest, — ^above  a  thousand  times  in  a  year»  every  year 
of  our  lives ! 

The  stomach  is  the  mainspring  of  our  system.  If  it  be 
not  sufficiently  wound  up  to  warm  the  heart  and  support  the 
circulation,  the  whole  business  of  life  will,  in  proportion, 
oe  ineffectively  performed :  we  can  neither  think  with  pre- 
cision, wfdk  with  vigoinr,  tit  dawn  with  comfort,  nor  deep  with 
tranquillity. 

There  would  be  no  difficidty  in  proving  that  it  influences 
(much  more  Uian  people  in  general  imagine)  all  our  actions : 
the  destiny  of  nations  has  often  depended  upon  the  more 
or  less  laborious  digestion  of  a  prime  minister.!  See  a  very 
curious  anecdote  in  the  memoirs  of  Count  Zinzehdorfx 
in  Dodsleys  Annual  Register  for  1762.    3d  edition,  p.  32. 

The  philosopher  Pythagoras  seems  to  have  been  exbemely 
nice  in  eating;  amonffhis  absolute  injunctions  to  his  dis- 
ciples, he  commands  them  to  ^  abstain  from  beans.** 

This  ancient  sag0  has  been  imitated  by  the  learned  who 
have  discoursed  on  tiiis  subject  since,  who  are  liberal  of 
their  negative,  and  nig^^ardly  of  their  positive  precepts — ^in 
the  ratio,  that  it  is  easier  to  tell  you  not  to  do  this,  than  to 
teach  you  how  to  do  that. 

pur  great  English  moi^alist  Dr.  S.  Johnson,  his  biographer 
BoisweQ  tells  us,  "  was  a  man  of  very  nice  discernment  in 
the  science  of  cooKery,"  and  talked  of  good  eating  with  un- 
common satisfaction.  "Some  people,**^  said  he,  "have  a 
foolish  way  of  not  minding,  or  pretending  not  to  mind,  what 
they  eat ;  for  my  part,  I  ntind  my  belly  very  studiously  and 
very  carefully,  and  I  look  upon  it  that  he  who  does  not  mind 
his  beUy,  wiU  hardly  mind  any  thing  else." 

*  See  a  curiaus  account  in  Conaa  Gastronohiqub,  p.  145,  and  in  Anadianis* 
Travels,  Robinson,  1796,  vol.  ii.  p.  58,  and  Ob».  and  note  under  No.  403. 

t  See  the  Sd,  3d,  &n4  4th  pages  of  Sii  Wh.  T^uvm^b  Esaas  an  IM  Cure  of  tkt 
GmhyMoza. 


The  I>iiwiiiif]itliave8aid»eamiof  mind  any  ifainge  The 
eneirgy  of  our  brains  is  sadly  dependent  «m  Uie  behavioiur  of 
€Ka  BpwELS.*  Those  who  say,  'tis  no  matter  what  we  eat  or 
what  we  drink,  may  as  well  say,  *Tis  no  matter  whether  we 
eat,  or  whether  we  drink. 

The  following  anecdotes  I  copy*  from  Bosw^^s  life  of 
Johnson, 

Johmon.'^  I  could  write  a  better  ^ook  of  cookery  than 
has  ever  yet  been  written ;  it  riiouldbe  a  bo<^on  philosophi- 
cal principles.    I  would  tell  what  is  the  best  butcher^s  me^t,  - 
the  proper  seasons  of  different  Yegetables,  and  then,  how  to 
roast,  and  boil,  and*to  compound.*" 

Dilly, — ^Mn.  Gkust'B  cookery t  which  is  the  best»  was 
written  by  Dr.  Hill.*' 

Johmon. — ^"Well,  Sir-miis  shows  how  much  better  the 
subject  of  cookeiyf  may  be  treated  by  a  {diilosopher^  but 

*  **  He  tbat  would  have  a  dear  keadt  must  have  a  clean  8tomaek."^J)R.  Chstnv 
o»BmM^9vo.  1734,  p.  34. 

*'  It  is  sufficiently  manifest  bow  much  uncomfortaUe  feelinn  of  the  bowels  attbtt 
the  Bervous  systera,  and  bow  linniediatety  and  completely  tne  genera]  diaorde/  is 
relieved  by  an  alvine  evacuation."— p.  53. 

**  We  cannot  reasonably  expect  traaqauiliy  of  tbe  nervoos  syateoi,  while  tbrae  is 
JBMrder  of  the  digestive  oinns.  As  we  can  perceive  no  permanent  soaree  ot 
•lieagth  bat  ftom  the  digestion  of  our  food,  it  becomes  impbrtant  on  this  account 
Urn  we  should  attend  to  its  quantity,  quahty,  and  die  periods  of  taking  it,  with  a 
view  to  ensure  its  proper  digestion."— AssaNBTHT^s  Sur.  Ohs.  8vo.  1817,  p.  65. 

t  **If  seienee  can  ic^  contribute,  to  tbe  happiness  of  mankind,  it  must  be  in 
this  deMrtoMnt;  the  real  comfort  of  the  majority  of  men  in  this  country  is  sought 
finr  at  toeix  own  fiie^e ;  how  desirable  does  it  then -become  to  give  every  induce- 
ment to  be  at  home,  by  directing  an  the  means  of  philosophy  to  increase  domestic 
hapafaMas !"— 0VLvnsTBa*s  PhOoMpkf  of  Domestie  Eeontmff.  4to.  1819,  p.  17.  j 

■  t  The  best  books  of  cookery  have  been  Written  by  physiaans.— Sb  KsNBunr 
UHiBT— Star  Thbodoeb  Matbenb.— See  the  last  quarter  of  Ulge  304  of  voLx  of 
the  PkiL  Trtuu.  Ibr  1679.— Proftssor  BftASLBT— Ilr.  Hill— br.  Lb  Coixtb— Dr. 
Hmmat,  Ice. 

"  To  understand  the  tbbort  or  oookbrt,  we  most  attend  to  the  action  of  heat 
opon  the  various  constitoents  o(  alimentary  substances  as  applied  directly  and 
indiieGtiy  throu^  the  medium  of  some  fluid,  in  the  former  wav  as  eiemplmed.'^ 
In  the  processes  of  roastihs  and  boiliho,  the  chief  coiutituents<;/aBhnal  saostaaces 
omtargo  the  lUlowing  changes— the  fiMne  is  conug^ted,  the  alPiNii«s  coagulated, 
the  gelatine  and  oamazome  rendered  more  soluble  in  water,  the  fat  liquefied,  and 
the  waten  evaporated. 

**  If  the  heat  exceed  a  certain  degree,  the  surface  becomes  first  brown,  and  thai 
■eorehed.  In  consequence  of  these  changes,  the  muscular  fibre  bMomes  opaque, 
dKMter,  firmer,  and  atiet ;  the  tendons  less  opaque,  softer,  and  gluey;  tiie  (kt  is  either 
melted  out,  or  rendered  semi^tramqparent  Animal  fluids  become  more  transpareDf : 
the  albumen  is  coagtilated  and  separated,  and  they  dissolve  gelatine  and  osmasome. 

**  Lastly,  and  what  is  the  most  important  change,  and  the  immediate  object  of  all 
cookeiv,  the  meat  loses  the  vapid  nauseous  amdl  and  taste  peeuliai  to  its  raw  etate, 
and  it  becomes  savoury  and  grateful. 

**  Heat  applied  through  the  ioter^en^n  of  boiKng  oU,  or  melted  fat,  as  in  ntnra, 
produces  nearly  the  same  changBs;  m  tbe  heat  is  aoffideiit  to  evapoeate  the  water, 
and  to  induce  a  degree  of  scorchlsf^ 

"  But  when  water  is  the  medinia  thiou|^  which  lieat  is  applied-HU  in  Mii.w«, 
•Tcwiiia,  and  bakino,  the  effects  are  somewhat  diflferrait,  as  Ow  beat  never  eaccteda 
n3P,-which  is  not  sufllcient  to  commence  the  process  of  browning  or  deoompoeltion, 
and  tlie  soluble  constxtuents  hre  removed  by  being  dissolved  in  the  water,  forming 


^ 

I 
f 


tt 

you  dlian  see  vfbai  a  bookof  eootorl  shatt  nataind  AaU 
agree  with  Mr.Di^for  the  eopynght.'* 

Min  Seward.'-*' That  waM  be  Hereides  with  ike  djelaff 
indeed  r' 

Johnson. — ^No»  madam;  women  can  spin  tenrweUylivt 
theyeannotmakeagoodbookofeookery.^  Seem.iii.p.811. 

Mr,  B.  add8»  **  I  never  knew  a  man  who  leMahed  foo<i^ 
eating  moie  than  he  did:  when  at  table,  he  was  totally  ab« 
soibed  in  the  business  of  the  moment :  nor  would  he,  ulew 
in  rer^  high  company,  say  one  word,  or  even  pay  the  least 
attention  to  wh^  was  said  by  others,  until  he  had  salisfied 
his  appetite.^ 

Tl^  peculiarities  of  his  constitution  were  as  great  as  thosft 
of  Ins  character:  luxury  and  intemperance  we  rriative 
terms,  depending  on  other  circumstances  than  mere  qvantity 
and  quality.  Nature  cave  him  an  excellent  palale,  and  a 
craving  appetite,  and  his  intense  application  rendered  large 
supplies  of  nOuiudmient  absolutely  necessaiy  to  recruit  ms 
exhausted  siNrits. 

The  fact  is,  this  great  man  had  found  out  that  animal  and 
inteUeetual  vigour,*  are  much  more  entirely  dependent  upon 
each  other  than  is  commonly  understood;  especnally  in  those 
constitutions  whose  digestive  and  chylopoietic  organs  are 
capricious  and  easHy  pat  out  of  tune,  or  absoifo  the  *^p(Unh 
lum  vitm''^  indolently  and  imperfectly :  with  siidi,  it  is  onhr 
now  and  tiien  that  the  ^  aenaortam  commtme"  vibrates  with 
the  ivll  tone  of  accurately  ccmsiderativor  or  creative  eneigy* 
''•His  favourite  dainties  were,  a  leg  of  pork  boiled  tiU  it 
dropped  from  the  Ixme,  a  veal-pie,  mth  plums  and  sugar,  ot 
the  outside  cut  of  a  salt  buttock  of  beef.  With  lef^ird  to 
dritA^  his  liking  was  for  the  strongest,  as  it  was  not  the 
flavour,  but  the  effect  that  he  desired.'^  Mr.  Smate's  Account 
of  Dr.  Johnson's  Journey  into  Wales,  1816,  p.  174. 

Thus  does  ihe  health  always,  and  very  often  the  life  of 
invalids,  and  those  who  have  weak  and  infirm  stohachs* 
depend  upon  the  care  and  skill  of  the  go<«.  Our  forefathers 
were  so  sensible  of  this,  that  in  days  of  yore  no  man  of 
coGusequence  thought  of  making  a  day's  journey  without 
taking  his  **  Maoister  Co^ucuiuii"  with  him. 

aoup  or  broth ;  or,  if  the  direct  contact  of  the.  water,  be  prevented^  they  are  diflBOhred 
in  the  Juices  of  the  meat,  and  separate  in  thefonn  of  grayjr.** 

Vide  Supptement  to  EnejfeU^.  Brit.  Edm.  rot.  iv.  p.  3M,  the  article  "  food,"  m 
wbldi  we  rjefer  our  reader  as  Hie  most  sdeotifie  paper  on  the  subject  we  have  aeeas 

*  "  Bealtbf  beaa^f  strength,  and  spirits,  and  I  might  add  all  me  (hcultles  of  the 
mind,  depend  upon  the  oilpins  of  the  body ;  Wboo  these  are  in  good  order,  the  thinking 
part  is  most  alert  and  acnve,  the  contraiy  when  they  are  distvrbed  or  diaeaiiBd."'^ 
Dr.  CAD0SA5  onJ^Twrsing  OtUdren,  8vo.  1757,  p.  5.      ' 


»  . 


t2  TKTMOnV^TIQm 

The  nriiv  of  this  talent  in  a  high  degree  is  so  well  under* 
stood,  that  oesides  very  considersible  pecuniary  compensa- 
tion,  his  msyesty's  first  and  second  cooks*  are  now  esquires 
by  their  office.  We  have  every  reascm  to  suppose  they  were 
persons  of  equal  dignity  heretofore.  '       r 

.  In  Dr. Pegee^s  "Forme  of  Cury,"  8vo.  London,  1780,  we 
read^  that  when  Cardinal  Otto,  the  Pope's  legate,  was  at 
Oxford,  A.  D.  1348,  his  brother  officiated  as   "Maoister 

lliis  important  post  has  always  been  held  as  a  situation  of 
hiffh  trust  and  confidence ;  and  the  '^Magitus  Co^vvs,''  Ang- 
lice,  the  Master  Kxtchmerj  has,  time  immemorial,  been  an 
officer  of  considerable  dignity  in  the  palsuses  of  princes. 

The  co<^  in  Plavtus  ipsfsudo!)  is  called  ^^limdnufn  ser- 
'vaiorem,^  the  preserver  of  mankind ;  and  by  Mekcier  "un 
mideein  qui  guMt  rcidicalemeni  deux  maladies  mortelleSf  la 
finm  et  la  noijv^ 

The  Norman  conqueror  William  bestowed  several  por- 
tions of  land  on  these  highly-favoured  domestics,  the 
**  Co^iuoRVM  Prjepositus,"  and  "  Co^uus  Regius  f  a  manor 
was  bestowed  on  Robert  Argyllon  the  '*  Grand  Queux,"  to 
be  held  by  the  following  service.  See  that  venerable  record, 
the  doomsday  book. 

"  Robert  Argyllon  holdeth  one  carucate  of  land  in  Adding- 
ton  in  the  county  of  Surrey,  by  the  service  of  making  one 
mess  in  an  earthen  pot  in  the  kitchen  of  our  Lord  the  King, 
on  the^ay  of  his  coronation,  called  De  la  Groute,^  i.  e.  a  kind 
of  plum-porridge,  or  water-gruel  with  plums  in  it.  This  dish 
is  still  served  up  at  the  royal  table  at  coronations,  by  the 
Lord  of  the  said  manor  of  Addington. 

At  the  coronation  of  «King  George  IV.,  Court  of  Claims, 
July  12,  1820 :         ' 

"  The  petition  of  the  Archbishop  of  CAurTERBURv,  which 
was  presented  by  Sir  G.  Nayler,  claiming  to  perform  the 
service  of  presenting  a  dish  of  De  la  GvmUe  to  the  King  at 
the  banquet,  was  considered  by  the  Court,  and  decided  to  be. 
allowed."  '     .  •. 

A  good  dinner  is  one  of  the  greatest  enjoyments  of  human 
life ;  and  as  the  practice  of  coc^ery  is  attended  with  so  many 
discouraging  difficulties,!  so  many  disgusting  and  disagree- 

*  "We  have  some  good  families  in  England  of  the  name  of  Cktok  or  Cokt.  I 
know  not  what  they  may  think ;  but  tliey  may  depend  upon  it,  they  all  ori^aOy 
sprang  from  real  and  professional  cooks;  and  they  need  not  be  ashamed  of  then- 
extraction,  any  more  than  the  Parkers^  BuUerSi  ^e."— Dr.  Pioas's  Fimne  of  Cmrf, 
p.  103.  ' 

t  It  is  said,  there  are  sbtkn  ehanees  again»t  even  t^  moat  simple  dish  being  pre- 
sented to  the  month  in  absolute  perfection;  for  instance,  a  lis  of  hcttom. 


utnapcenait.  23 

able  circmDatances,  and  evm  danscrirwe  ongfal  to  have  tome 
F^ard  for  those  who  encountei  uiein  lo  procure  ni  (^unre, 
and 'to  reward  their  attention  by  rendering  their  litnation 
every  way  a«  comfortable  and  agreeHble  aa  we  can.  He 
irho  preaches  tategrity  to  thoie  in  the  kitchen,  (lee  **  Adoiee 
lo  Coola,^)  may  ^  permitted  to  leconunend  lAeraHty  to  Uiom 
in  the  rariour;  they  are  indeed  the  aouTcea  of  each  other. 
Depend  upon  it,  "  True  eeU-love  and  social  an  the  Mme  i" 
**  Do  as  you  would  be  done  by ;"  give  those  yov  are  oblifed 
to  trust  every  inducement  to  be  honest,  and  no  temptation  to 
play  tricks. 

When  yon  consider  that  a  good  servant  eats*  no  nwre  than 
a  bad  one,  how  much  waste  is  occasioned  by  proviaions 
being  chressed  in  a  slovenly  and  unskilfiil  manner,  and  how 
mobh  a  good  cook  (to  whtmi  the  conduct  of  the  kitchen  is 
confided)  can  save  tou  by  careful  maoHgemenl,  no  houM- 
keeper  will  hardly  oeem  it  an  unwise  speculation  (it  is  ci — 


duitry  of  di 
—at  least. 


amiable  experiment),  to  mvite  the  Aonofv  and  tn- 
'omestica,  by  setting  them  an  example  of  liieraJily 
,  show  them,  that  "  According  to  tneir  pains  will 
ne  their  gains." 

Avoid  all  s^iproaches  towards  farmtiariiy ;  which,  to  a  pro- 
veih,  is  accompanied  by  contempt  and  soon  breaks  the  neck 
of  obediraice. 

A  lady  gave  us  the  following  account  of  the  progress  of  a. 
favourite. 

"  The  first  year,  she  was  an  excellent  servant ;  the  second, 
a  kind  mistress;  the  third,  an  intolerable  tyrant;  at  whose 
dismissal,  every  creature  about  my  house  rejoiced  heartily." 

However,  servants  are  more  likely  to  be  praised  into  good 
conduct,  than  scolded  out  of  bad.  Always  commend  them 
when  they  do  right.  To  cherish  the  desire  of  pleasing  in  them, 
you  must  show  them  tiiat  you  are  pleased  :— 

tat— The BiBUim muil be  »«t.  Sd.— Minthml»enk(miL/«HlUnK.  M.— 
HuKbenuUilUiins^am.  Wi^By  ■  «»<  took.  Mb.— Wbo  mua  bg  in /Mil 
icnper.  Bih.— With »ll  llii»fa]iciMiitoniIiliiaUoiiyomnuilh««/i>iii luck;  nd, 
TtiL — a»mi  ffi^a.—'The  mar.  ind  Ihc  iaoull»HliU:b  u«  to  nl  II,  nun  be  aiAj 


*  To  guud  onlnK  '  b  gntnt 
vmnn  wtth  >  luw  pair  aC  igwi 
pomil  Ibaoi  nrit  down  to  ui;  id 

uivawi^B/HHioUsukK 

barf;  snnpiurkKfialiigai 

iBrnatwbD  aiu  »  mhtb  than 
ijtiiii,  Hial  ksbBaaatenllin* 

-  UH  addhlan  to  f«iio{i4ldan'B  ac 


24  >  niTBODUCl'ION. 

"  Be  totkeir  ftrttt  a  titde  Mind, 
And  ID  tMr  vfartMi  ircry  Und.'* 

By  Bucli  conduct,  ordinary  Mvants  may  be  converted  into 
«ood  ones :  few  are  so  hardened  a)9  not  to  feel  gratified  when 
tbey  are  kindly  and  liberally  treated. 

It  if  a  good  maxim  to  select  servants  not  yonnger  than 
TUtKrYi-^-h^ore  ihat  age,  however  comfortable  yon  may 
es^teavoar  to  make  them,  their  want  of  experieace,  and  the 
hof)€  of  something  still  better^  prevents  their  being  satisfied 
with  their  present  state ;  qfter^  they  have  had  the  benefit  of 
expericDce :  if  they  are  tolerably  comfortable,  they  will 
OMeaTour  to  deserve  the  smiles  of  even  a  moderately  kind 
master,  for /ear  they  may  change  for  the  xvmrse. 

life  may  indeed  be  very  fairly  divided  into  the  seasons  of 
RfMPE  and  FEAR.  In  touth,  we  hope  every  thtnff  may  he  right : 
in  AGE,  "me  fear  every  tking  wUl  he  txircng. 

Do  not  mscharge  a  good  servant  for  a  slight  offence : — 

**  Bear  and  fiHrbear,  thus  preached  the  stoic  vagea^ 
And  in  two  w(m«u,  include  Uie  sense  of  page8.'^»PoFB. 

Human  rature  is  the  same  in  all  stations  :  if  you  can 
convince  your  servants  that  you  haye  a  generous  ana  consi- 
derate regard  for  their  health  and  comfort,  why  should  you 
imagine  that  they  will  be  insensible  to  the  good  they  receive  ! 

Impose  no  commands  but  what  are  reasonable,  nor  re^ 
prove  but  with  justice  and  temper :  the  best  way  to  ensure 
which  is,  neyer  to  lecture  them^  till  at  least  one  day  after 
they  have  ofiended  you. 

If  they  have  any  particular  hardship  to  endure  in  your 
service,  let  them.«ee  that  you  are  concerned  for  tibe  neces- 
sity of  imposing  it. 

if  they  are  sick,  remember  you  are  their  patron  as  well  as 
their  master :  remit  their  labour,  and  give  them  all  the  assist- 
ance of  food,  physic,  and  every  comfort  in  your  power. 
Tender  assidui^  about  an  invalid  is  half  a  cure ;.  it  is  a  bal- 
sam to  the  mind,  which  has  a  most  pow^ful  effect  on  the 
Dody,  soothes  the  sharpest  pains,  and  strengthens  beyond  the 
richest  cordial. 

Ye  who  think  that  to  protect  and  encourage  virtue  is  the 
best  preventive  from  vice,  reward  your  female  servants  libe- 
rally« 

CfiARiTT  SHOULD  BEGIN  AT  ROME.  Prevention  is  preferable 
to  cure— but  I  have  no  objection  to  see  your  names  orna- 
menting the  lists  of  subscribers  to  foundling  hospitals  and 


IllTSODUCTIO]!.  25 

female  pemtentiMes.*  Gentle  read^*  for  a  definitaoii  ef 
Uie  wora  **cktai^f^  let  me  refer  yon  to  the  i3th  Cluster  of 
St,  Paulas  First  ^E^istle  to  the  Corinthiaiu. 

^  To  fay  nothiag  of  tiie^tfeteriona  raponrs  and  peftHen* 
tial  esJiaiatioofl  of  the  eharcOal,  which  toon  undermine  the 
health  of  the  heartiest,  the  glare  of  a  acoiehing  &e,  and  the 
smoke  so  baneful  to  the  eyea  and  the  complexion,  am  oonti* 
ntial  and  inevitable  dangers :  and  a  cook  must  lire  in  the 
midst  of  tihem.  as  a  sol£er  on  the  field  of  battle  surrounded 
by  bullets,  and  bombs,  and  Coworbtx^s  rockets ;  with  this 
only  di^Teroice,  that  for  the  first,  eyeiy  day  is  a  fighting 
day,  that  her  warfare  is  almost  always  without  {flory, 
ai^  most  praiseworthy  achieyements  pass  not  only  witiboul 
reward, but  freq^ntly  without  thanks:  for  the  most  con- 
summate cook  is,  alas !  seldcnn  noticed  by  the  master,  or 
heard  of  by  the  guests ;  who,  while  they  are  eagerly  de* 
vouring  his  turtle,  and  drinking  his  wine,  care  very  little 
who  £essed  the  one,  or  sent  the  other.^— -ySlsMMMidk  da 
Gtmrmands, 

This  observation  applies  especially  to  the  second  cook,  or 
first  kitchen  maid,  in  large  families,  who  have  by  far  the 
hardest  place  in  the  house,  and  are  worse  paid,  and  truly 
verify  the  old  adage,  ^  the  more  work,  the  less  wages." 
If  there  is  any  thing  right,  the  cook  has  the  praise-^when 
there  is  any  thing  wrong,  as  surely  the  kiUHen  modd  has 
the  blame.  Be  it  known,  then,  to  honest  John  Bvll, 
that  this  humble  domestic  is  expected  by  the  cook  to  take 
the  entire  management  of  all  roasts,  boils,  nsH,  and 
vegetables;  i.  e.  the  principal  part  of  an  Englishman's 
dinner. 

The  master,  who  wishes  to  enjoy  the  rare  luxury  of  a 
table  regularly  well  served  in  the  best  style,  must  treat  his 


*  Much  real  refonnatioii  niefat  lie  eflbeted,  and  iinat  gratefW  servioe*  obtained,  IC 
aunWea  whteh  oomrist  wiioily  of  IbnalM,  Would  take  aenrants  reeommended  from 
the  MAOBjkLBiiH-'PnnTBimAKT'— OP  OoAAoiAiH^wboBeelE  to  be  reelored  fa  viitnooa 
aoeiety. 

"  J%aMf«aenNni<#  wIk>  pnnme  an  honest  eoone,  hwe  to  trav^d,  in  theUr  peeoMar 
vrbit,  throui^  a  more  powerfully  redetiiig  medium  than  perhaps  any  other  daes  of 
people  in  eiviUai#d  HA;  they  shoold  he  treated  with  eomechinf  Hire  Ohrfatlaii  kind- 
nesB :  for  want  of  tiiia,  a  fttult  whieh  might  at  the  time  have  been  euiky  amended, 
has  become  the  source  of  tnteiminable  sorrow.** 

*^  By  the  deoMaey  and  benevolent  interftience  ef  two  mbtressea  known  to  tlie 
writer,  two  serrants  have  beeoroe  hapfjy  wive%  who>  bad  flwy  hem  in  some  situa- 
tions, woaM  have  been  UteraBy  oatcasta.** 

A  neat  laudable  socistt  for  the  sirroimMBHsirr  of  rtMAU  scRvairrs,  by  a 
natoitoos  rafpstry,  and  bv  rewaide,  was  faiatltiited  in  1818 ;  plans  of  which  may  be 
had  gTutu  at  the  Society's  lioose,  No.  10,  Hatton  Oanlen.  The  above  is  an  extract 
finn  tiie  Itw.  H.  O.  WATwrn^u  BiMs  t»  i5fead««»f  iiVnft»f>0s,awoiliw^dMervfiK 
tile  attentive  consideration  of  inexperienced  bonsekeepers. 

c 


I 


26  USFTRODtVCTION. 

cook  as  his  friend— watch  over  her  health*  with  the  tenderest 
caret  a^d  especially  be  sure  her  taste  does  not  suffer  from 
her  stomach  being  deranged  by  bilious  attacks. 

Besides  understanding  the  management  of  the  .spit,  the 
stewpan,  and  the  rolling-pin,  a  complete  cook  must  know 
how  to  go  to  market,  write  legibly,  and  keep  accounts 
accurately. 

In  weU-regulated  private  families  the  most  convenient 
custom  seems  to  be,  that  the  cook  keep  a  house-book,  con- 
taining an  accoimt  of  the  miscellaneous  articles  she  pur- 
chases ;  and  the  butcher's,  baker's,  butterman^  green-^ 
grocer's,  fishmonger's,  milkman's,  and  washing  bills  are 
brought  in  every  Monday;  these  it  is  the  duty  of  the  cook 
to  ex^nine,  beu>re  she  presents  them  to  her  employer  every 
Tuesday  morning  to  be  discharged. 

*  The  greatert  care  ihould  be  taken  by  the  man  of  feshion,  that  his  cook's  health 
be  preserved :  one  hundredth  part  of  the  attention  usually  bestowed  on  his  dog,  or 
bis  horse,  will  suffice  to  regulate  her  animal  system. 

**  Cleanliness,  and  a  proper  ventilation  to  cany  off  smoke  and  steam,  should 
be  particularly  attended  to  in  the  construction  of  a  kitchen;  the  grand  scene  of 
action,  the  fire-place,  diould  be  placed  where  it  may  receive  plenty  of  light ;  hitherto 
the  contrary  has  prevailed,  and  the  poor  cook  is  continually  hwrted  with  her  own 
penmuration."— wt!  .C,  Jim. 

"  Tile  most  experienced  artists  in  cookery  cannot  be  certain  of  their  work  without 
tasting :  they  must  be  incessantly  tasting.  The  spoon  of  a  good  cook  is  continually 
paaring  from  the  stewpan  to  his  tongue ;  nothing  but  frequent  tasting  his  sauces, 
racoAts,  &c.  can  discover  to  him  what  progress  they  liave  made,  or  enable  him  to 
season  a  soup  with  any  certainty  of  success ;  his  palate,  therefore,  must  be  in  the 
highest  state  of  excitability,  that  the  least  fault  may  be  perceived  in  an  instant. 

"  But,  alas !  the  constant  empyreumatic  ftunes  of  the  stoves,  the  necessity  of 
fimiuent  drinking,  and  often  of  bad  beer,  to  moisten  a  parched  throat ;  in  short, 
every  thing  -around  him  cons{rires  quickly  to  vitiate  the  organs  of  taste ;  the  palate 
becomes  blunted ;  its  quickness  of  feeling  uid  delicacy,  on  which  the  sensibility  of 
the  organs  of  taste  depends,  grows  daily  mose  obtuse ;  and  in  a  short  time  the  gus- 
tatory nerve  becomes  quite  unexcitable. 

"  Ip  Tou  FXMB  TOUR  COOK  NBOLBCT  BIS  BUBiMSss— that  his  rof  oAts  BTO  too  highly 
spiced  or  salted,  and  his  cookery  has  too  much  of  the  *  hawt  go^*  you  may  be  sure 
that  hii  iiulez  of  taste  wants  regulating ;  his  palate  has  lost  its  sensibility,  and  it  is 
high  time  to  call  in  th^  assistance  of  the  apothecary. 

^^^Pwger  souvent*  is  the  grand  maxim  in  all  kitchens  where  le  Maitre  d?R6ul 
has  81^  regard  for  the  reputation  of  his  table.  Les  Bans  Hommea  de'  Soueke 
submit  to  l&o  operation  without  a  murmur;  to  bind  others,  it  should  be  made  the 
first  condition  in  hirhig  them.  Those  who  refuse,  prove  they  were  not  bom  to 
become  masters  of  their  art;  and  their  indifference  to  ihme  will  rank  them,  as  they 
deserve,  among  tlwee  slaves  who  pass  their  lives  in  as  much  obscurity  as  their  own 
stewpans." 

To  the  preceding  observations firom  the " Alnuauuh des  ChurtMnda"  we  may 
add,  that  the  MoutAieian  will  have  a  still  better  chance  of  success,  if  lie  can  prevail 
on  his  master  to  observe  the  same  riginu  which  be  orders  for  his  cook ;  or,  instead  of 
endeavouring  to  awaken  an  idle  appetite  by  reading  the  index  to  a  cookery  book,  or 
an  additional  use  of  the  pepper-box  and  salt-cellar,  rather  seek  it  from  abstinence 
or  exercise  ;-^-the  philosophical  gourmand  will  consider  that  the  edge  of  our  appetite 
is  generally  keen,  in  proportion  to  the  activity  of  our  other  habits;  let  him  atten- 
tively peruse  our  **  Peptic  Pkkckpts,"  &c.  which  briefly  explain  the  art  of  refreshing 
the  gustlUory  nerves,  and  of  invigorating  the  whole  system.  See  in  the  foltowing 
clu4)ter  on  utviTATioKS  to  dihhkr-^A  recipe  to  make  fobty  tbristaltic  pir- 

STlAfilBRS. 


The  advantaee  of  paying  such  bills  weekly  ifl  incaiciilap 
ble:  amonfr  ouers  the  constant  check  it  aflbrds  against 
any  excess  beyond  the  sum  allotted  for  defraying  them,  and 
the  opportunity  it  gives  of  correcting  increase  of  expense 
i  in  one  week  by  a  prudent  retrenofament  in  the  next.    *^  If 

you  would  live  even  with  the  woxld,  calculate  your  expenses 
at  half  your  income — ^if  you  would  grow  rid^  at  aneikird." 

It  IS  an  excellent  plan  to  have  a  table  of  rules  for  regu- 
lating the  ordinary  expenses  of  the  fauBly,  in  order  to  check 
any  innovation  or  excess  which  otherwise  nught  be  intro* 
duced  unawgLies,  and  derange  the  proposed  mstribution  of 
the  annual  revenue. 

To  understand  the  economy  of  household  affairs  is  not 
only  essential  to  a  woman*s  prop^  and  pleasant  perfoimance 
of  the  duties  of  a  wife  and  a  motner,  but  is  indispensable  to 
the  comfort,  respectability,  and  general  welfare  of  all  families, 
whatever  be  their  circumstances. 

The  editor  has  employed  some  leisure  hours  in  collecting 
practical  hints  for  instructing  inexperienced  housekeepers  in 
the  useful 

Art  qfproDiding  conUoriMyfor  afamUy; 
which  is  displayed  so  plainly  and  so  particidarly,  tiiat  a 
young  lady  may  learn  the  delectable  arcana  of  domestic 
affairs,  in  as  littte  time  as  is  usually  devoted  to  directing  the 
position  of  her  hands  on  a  piano-forte^  or  of  her  feet  in  a 
quadriUe'^laa  will  enable  her  to  make  the  cage  of  matri- 
mony as  comfortable  as  the  net  of  courtship  was  charming. 
For  this  purpose  he  has  contrived  a  Housekeeper's  Leger, 
a  plain  and  easy  plan  of  keeping  accurate  accounts  of  the 
expenses  of  housekeeping,  which,  with  only  one  hour's  atten- 
^  tion  in  a  week,  will  enable  you  to  balance  all  such  accounts 

*»  with  the  utmost  exactness ;  an  acceptable  acquisition  to  all 

who  admit  that  order  and  economy  are  the  basis  of  comfort 
and  independence. 

It  is  almost  impossible  for  a  cook  in  a  large  family,  to 
attend  to  the  business  of  the  kitchen  with  any  certainty  of 
perfection,  if  employed  in  other  household  concerns.  It  is 
a  service  of  such  importance,  and  so  difficult  to  perform  even 
tolerably  well,  that  it  is  sufficient  to  engross  the  entire  atten- 
tion of  one  person. 

"  If  we  take  a  review  of  the  qualifications  which  are  indis- 
pensable in  that  highly  estimable  domestic,  a  good  cook,  we 
shall  find  that  very  few  deserve  that  name.''^ 

*  ^^Bbe  mast  be  qokk  and  atrong  of  sight ;  her  bearing  most  acate,  tbat  she  mav 
fte  aenaible  when  the  contents  of  her  veaseb  bubble^  although  they  be  dnsely  corered, 
«ad  tbat  riie  m^y  be  alarmed  before  ihe  pot  hoiis  over -Im  auditory  nerve  ough** 


i 


sh  to  save  \ 
sepers  and; 
aces  of  the 
ety,  were  . 
ccomplish  I 
ens  it)  to  bl 
iiought  of  ^ 
e  done  my, 
sreatures : 
yriven,  the  r 
>t  only  in  a 
id  economic 
task  seems 
to  collect  a 
ible  mann^ 
ies  of  the  *" 
developed,  • 
art  of  cook^, 
facility.      • 
s'perfectly  | 
irho  are  entl 
ung  my  id* 
^ver  shook 
y  anxiety  t 
3es6ity  of  (  i 
rent  parts  c  . 
etitionthar 
station,  wY] 
neighboun 
L  the  affairs 
frenchmen 
rofusion  o 
t  offering  i 
I,  vet  a  tipj 
r  know  ho  j 
id  eating, 
}uid  stimu 
ppyequili] 
a^eregula 
ired  by*s 
igaciously 
r  it  suffic 
f  the  ston^ 

ii 


■^•^      .  .-^  nrmie  fanilie«  the  most  conYement 

^  -iw  w  »  «V  jj^gcellaneoui  articles  she  pur- 
^^  *  -^  buicbet'B,  laker's,  b«tteniian%  green. 
Zi^t ;  ^  ^  7  « \Snan'»,  vA  washing  bills  are 

'n  • ''' V  iK^nis  them  to  ber  emjAoyer  every 


f  aoimog 


« t^'J^^^^^.C  u)  .S?  o€  moke  BOA 


.^ji^nMofikMon,tbMtbi8eook*8beillb 

,^  ^iJd  be  ^t^ttteauoa  amaOy  bmowed  aaUadog^ot 

and  flteam,  siioiild 
tbe  grand  scene  of 

»•**.  ^  M*P^"J^  _.^eaBDMbeeattbiofUieirWQriEWJtlioo( 

•^    *,  A  -•' '  vT,rti«t«iB'*T^WwoMof  agoodcookiBixraliBaal^ 

r*;:   ..-i'«»'"'*L!-jfltif  i«**^'.  Mtiiuc  to  fireipieiil  tuHiiK  his  nucea. 


•*••  IITV  '«•  '^  rior •rSf  to  BMhlen  e  puctied  throat;  tai  ^rt, 
.««    ^  ^  A*''  ""^  ,^r>«  4"".'^!^  .«i  dafkaer.  on  wliicli  the  sesabaitv  of 


i^'^"  Ztr 


1*" 


'^  'ft^t'ir^  ^^"'^i  t«i  deffcaey,  ad  which  the  sessibifity  of 
»-^  ^1^  ot'  f*^:"Zumobtm;  and  ia  a  ahoit  time  Che  gm- 


«*''■•    .^^^'•fjScii*^,-ciiff"--*««'»*»«'<V»<to  are  100  highly 
't^  'jl.iw^"''^'^  si»t^t'»'*mydioftJif'4«i«^»tf*,»yoaiBaybe  sure 


'      -^       JJMMMa  d«  Beudke 

riMMild  be  made  the 

^  •V  »*  C*  'Tr  -ui » «»»'!:r»ho  ref««,P»owe  they  were  not  bora  to 

^*"*J^**'i-^    Tl>^,!iilfei«ia  to  ftare  will  lank  them,  as  they 

.  V  -J*  ^sr-*  *\iid  i»»**'.iMAr  liv»m  «■  ■«*  ohacority  as  their  own 

fta»    ^-^11^  •»*«•*  ^ujjhMMdkdM  Oewnaande," 


■ '"  M^-*  •^^^  r>  "*^rch^  •?r7&ri«.  whf 

^    1^  -•  '*.;/-  "*  ^SJf  ^Jfr  »•*"»  °»»»«H  ^ 
*^'  ^/*^  '^wia*  ^1  *.  a  mtt^rwo  refyae,  prows  tb 


%»  *^ 


r  - 


™  -  .we  may 

•  ^  fi<^7LoerebaiKe  oCsacceBB,  if  be  can  inevafl 

,  ^  c—  -  „  M*«  •    .  *liicl>  te  «*»*»  W«  ««* ;  or,  instead  of 

»''*,*•  •i"Ji  K/^W,  rtitoig  the  index  to  a  cookeiy  book,  or 

»*  '   .^T-.    *rlx<«*"J!5b^  !5«rfllcowder  that  the  edge  of  our  ifppe^ 
ji  v»  *^  i*»  »T,  :  V  P^Pf^>»»'*^untyof  o"  other  habils;  Jet  him  allen- 


IP 


.J 


inciiic-^jc  •- 


The  advantase  of  jxpa^ 
Ide:  amon^  o&fs  t&e 
any  excess  beyond  the 
tfae  Of^itmiity  it 
in  one  week  by  a 
you  would  live 

It  IS  an  ec 
lating  the  ordinaiy 
any  innoTatumor 
dnced 
the  annual  leri 

To  undeistand  the 
only  essential  to  a 
of  the  duties  oi  a  wife 
the  comfort,  reqwctabdity,  i 
whatever  be  tbar 

The  editor  has  employed 
practical  hints  foriBStnictin^ 
the  useful 

which  IS  displayed  so  plainly  and  so 
young  lady  may  leam  the  defectabie 
affairs,  in  as  htUe  time  as  is  usually 
position  of  her  hands  on  a  jnoao^Wie,  or  of 
9ifadrtl2e-^this  will  enable  her  to  make  tbe 
mony  as  comfortable  as  tfae  net  of  courtsiDp 
For  this  puipose  he  has  coDtnred  a 

a  plain  and  easy  plan  oi  keepmg  aeei_ 

expenses  of  houseieepin^,  whKb,  with  onlr 
tion  in  a  week,  win  enable  yon  to  balance^aS 
with  the  irtmoat  exactness ;  an  aeceptab;e  3 
who  a^t  that  order  and  erooonlffrtbe 
and  indepeaaence. 

J*  if  ♦^J^i^?"**^  for  a  wok 
attend  to  the  hasmea  of  the  ki 

perfection,  if  employed  in  other  i««ff*-:*>*^ 
a  service  of  such  lopoitaKe,  a^  v>  <a: 
tolerably  wen,  flm  it 
tion  of  one  pemn. 

"If  wetakeaieriewof 
pensable  in  that  hi^dr 
shall  tod  that  veiy  " ' 

*  itghemuBtlieqakki 
%e  aeiMible  wben  ibe  cMi 
•aA  tlist  riw  may  be  *i 


28     ',  nrrBODvcTioN. 

^  The  majority  of  thope  -who  set  m>  for  professors  of  tltis 
art  m  of  mean  abilil^  selfish,  ana  pilferin^p  every  thing 
they  can;  others  arerTbdolent  aixl  insolent.  TlHMe  who 
reauy  nnderstand  tbeir  business  (whieh  are  by  far  the 
smallest  niimb^),  are  too  often  either  ridaculoosly  sauey,  or 
insatiably  thirsty ;  in  a  word,  a  good  subject  of  thw  class  is 
«  rata  ceoi^  indeed  T* 

^  God  sends  meat,**— who  sends  cooks  f*  the  jpnnFerb  has 
long  saved  us  the  trmiMe  of  guessing.  Vide  Mmamach  dm 
Oourmands^  p.  83.       . 

Of  what  value  then  is  not  this  book,  whidi  will  render 
every  person  of  common^ense  a  eood  cook  in  as  little  time 
as  it  can  be  read  through  attentiv^ ! 

If  the  masters  and  mistiesses  of  families  will  sometimes 
condescend  lo  make  sto  amusement  of  this  art,  they  will 
escape  numberless  .^appointments,  Is  e.  which  those  who 
will  not,  mustocca«onally  inevitably  sufier,  to  the  detrmient 
of  both  their  health  and  tneir  fortune. 

I  did  not  nresume  to  offer  any  observations  of  my  own, 
till  I  had  read  all  that  I  could  find  written  on  the  subject^ 
and  submitted  (with  no  small  pains)  to  a  patient  and  attentive 
consideration  of  eveiy  preceding  work,  relating  to  culinary 
concerns,  that  1  could  meet  with. 

These  books  vary  very  little  from  each  other;  except  in 
the  preface,  they  are 

"  Like  in  all  else  as  one  egg,  to  another." 

^^Ab  tino,  disce  omnes,^  cutting  and  pasting  have  been 
much  oftener  employed  than  the  pen  and  mk:  any  one 
who  has  occasion  to  refer  to  two  or  three  of  them,  will 
find  the  receipts  almost  always  ^verbatim  et  literatim;'** 
equally  unintelligible  to  those  who  are  ignorant,  and  use- 
less to  those  who  are  acquainted  with  the  business  of  the 
kitchen. 
I  have  perused  not  fewer  than  250  of  these  volumes* 
During  the  Herculean  labour  of  my  tedious  progress 

todlMriminate  (mben  aevvral  saiieeiMiis  are  Id  operation  al  tlie  nine  tisae)  tiie  lim- 
merifig  of  one,  the  ebuilitioii  of  amMber,  and  the  foU-toned  wabbling  of  a  tbird. 

**■  It  is  imperiously  requisite  that  her  organ  of  smell  be  highly  susceptible  of  die 

^various  effluvia,  that  her  nose  may  distinguish  the  perfectiim  m  aromatic  ingredtoDf% 

and  that  in  animal  substances  it  shall  evince  a  susfrfcioas  accuracy  between  tender- 

'ness  and  putrefaction ;  above  all,  her  olfactories  should  be  tremblingly  alive  to 

mustiness  and  empyreuma. 

M  It  is  f^om  the  eiqulsiie  sensiblttty  of  her  palate,  that  we  admire  and  Jadfi  of  Hie 
cook ;  from  the  alliance  between  the  olfactory  and  s^pid  organs,  it  will  be  seen  that 
their  periiBction  is  indispensable^**— ^.  C,  Jk«. 

*  A  fbcetions  gourtMnd  suggests  that  the  old  story  of  "  Ugfating  a  candle  to  tba 
devU/*  probably  arose  from  this  adages— and  was  an  offering  presented  to  his  inlcnia] 
ra^lesty  by  some  epicure  who  was  in  want  of  a  cook. 


ttiioi:^;^  ^dse  books,  few  of  whiGh  aAud  the  nena  of  a 
skiffle  Idsa,  I  hftve  often  wished  th^  the  authors  of  fliein 
had  been  satisfied  with  ^ying  as  me  results  of  their  own 
practice  and  experience,  instead  of  idly  ^rpctuating  the 
errors,  prejudices,  and  plagiarises  ai  their  pvedecesson ; 
the  strange,  and  imaceounteble,  and  uselessly  extraTacBht 
farragoes  and  heteiogeneons  compositions  which  fill  ueix 
pages,  are  combinations  no  rational  being  would  ever  think 
ti  either  dressing  or  eating ;  and  Withimt  ascertaining  the 
mcticabflity  of  {preparing  tluB  receipts,  and  their  fitness 
for  food  when  done,  they  should  never  have  ventured  to 
lecommend  them  to  otters :  the  reader  of  them  will  often 
put  the  same .  qwsrt^  as  Jeremy^  in  Oongreve's  eomedy  <tf 
**LBveforLoiv^^  when  Folralme^ebsertes, ''  There 's  a  page 
doubled  down  in  Epictetus  tiiat  is  a  feast  for.att  emperor* 
•*-v/«r.  Was  Epictetus  a  real  cook,  oz  did  he  ov^  write 
receipts  r' 

Half  of  the  modem  cookery  books  are  made  up  with 
pages  cut  out  of  c^olete  works,  such  as  the  **  Choice 
Manual  of  Secrets,''  the  *'True  Gentlewoman's  Deli^^t," 
&C.  of  as  much  use,  in  this  age  of  refinement,  as  the  fol- 
lowing-curious passage  fiom  ^The  Acccnnplished  La^'s 
Rich  Closet  of  Rarities,  or  Ingenious  Gentlewoman's  De* 
lightful  Companion,"  13mo.  London,  16&3,  chapter  7,  page 
4!Sii  which  I  have  inserted  in  a  note,*  to  give  the  reader  a 
notion  of  the  baibarous  manners  of  the  16th  century,  with 
ttie  addition  of  the  arts  of  the  confectioner,  the  brewer,  the 
baker,  the  distiller,  the  gardener,  the  clear-starcher,  and  the 
perfumer,  and  how  to  make  pickles,  puff  paste,  butter, 
blacking,  &;c.  together  with  my  Lady  Bimntifutt  sovereign 
ranedy  for  an  inward  bruise,  and  other  ever-failing  nostrums^ 
— Dr,  KUlemqmd^s  wonder-woiking  essence,  and  fallible 
elixir,  which  cures  all  manner  of  incurable  maladies  directly 
minute,  Mrs.  JSfotable^s  instructions  how  to  make  soft  po- 

*  **  A  gentlewoman  being  at  tabic,  abmad  or  at  home,  mitft  observe  to  keep  ber 
body  MTiiigbt,  and  lean  not  By  any  meanawitta  ber  elbows,  nor  by  ravenona  psmnm 
discover  a  voraclouB  appetite  r  talk  not  when  you  have  wuat  in  your  numtk  ;  and  do 
not  smack  like  a  pig,  nor  venture  to  eat  tpoonmeat  so  hot  that  the  tears  stand  in 
yoiur  eyes,  which  Is  as  unwemly  as  tfie  genOewornKm  who  pretended  to  Hafe  w  H ttle 
a  ttomeuJk,  as  she  had  .a  mavAt  and  therefore  would  not  swalkm  lier  pea»§  by 
spoonfuls;  bm  took  them  one  by  one,  and  cut  them  In  two  before  she  would  eat 
(hem.    It  is  very  uncomely  to  drink  so  large  a  draught  that  your  bmth  Is  abnost 

! [one— and  are  forced  to  Idow  strongly  to  recover  yourself— tiuowing  down  your 
iquar  as  into  9.funnei  is  as  action  fltter  for  a  Jugy^er  than  a  gmtUw^mmn:  thus 
inuch  for  your  oiwervatiotts  in  general ;  if  I  am  defective  as  16  particiilars,  your  own 
prudtuee,  diseretiout  mtd  eurUiu  ^tervafiotu  will  supply.** 

*'  la  cARviKo  at  your  own  table,  distribute  the  best  pieces  first,  and  it  wiU  an;iear 
very  comely  and  deeent  to  nae  a/«rifc;  so  touch  no  piaoe  of  «M«|  without  it.'* 

**  Jftfsi.  The  Eni^irii  are  indebted  to  Tom  CoavAT  for  introducing  ths  rofts,  for 
which  tbeycali»d>iiJB  iiWfica/«r.**--See  his  CrwUUegtV<A.\,  p.  106.— Edit.  17^8vo. 

C3 


S(^  IMTRODUOTION.    ^ 

matiim,  that  will  .soon  make  more  hair  grow  upon  ^y 
head,  ''than  Dobbin,  thy  tliiil-horse,  hath  upon  his  tail,V 
and  many  others  equally  invaluable ! !  !--^the  proper  appella- 
tion for  which  would  be  ''  a  dangerous  budget  of-  vulgar 
errors,"  concluding  wiA  a  bun^e  of  extracts  from  ^  the  Gar- 
dener's Calendar,"  and  "  the  Publican's  Daily  Companion." 

Thomas  Carter,  in  the  preface  to  his  **  City  and  Country 
Coipk,"  London,  1738,  says, ''  What  I  have  published  is  almost 
the  only  book,  one  or  two  excepted,  which  of  late  years  has 
come  into  the  world,  that  has  been  the  result  of  the  author's 
own  practice  and  experience ;  for  though  veiy  few  eminent 
practical  cooks  have  ever  cared  to  publish  what  they  knew 
of  the  art,  yet  they  have  beeu  prevauled  on,  for  a  small  pre- 
mium from  a  bookseUer,  to  lend  their  names  to  performances 
in  this  art  unworthy  their  owning." 

Robert  May,  in  the  introduction  to  his  ''Accomplished 
Cook,"  1665,  says,  "  To  all  honest  and  well-intending  per-^ 
sons  of  my  profession,  and  others,  this  book  cannot  but  be 
acceptable,  as  it  plainly  and  profitably  discovers  Uie  mystery 
of  the  whole  art;  for  whicn,  though  I  may  be  envied  by 
sopie,  that  only  value  their  private  interests  above  posterity 
and  ib»  public  good ;  3ret  Qie  adds),  God  aiid  my  own  con- 
seienee  would  not  permit  me  to  bury  these,  my  experiences, 
with  my  silver  hairs  in  the  grave." 

Those  high  and  mighty  masters  and  mistresses  of  the  all- 
mentary  art,  who  call  themselves  ^ profess^  cooks,  are  said 
to  be  very  jealous  and  mysterious  beings ;  and  that  if ,  in  a 
long  life  of  laborious  stove-work,  they  have  found  out  a  few 
useful  secrets  j  they  seldom  impart  to  the  public  the  fruits  of 
their  experience ;  but  sooner  than  divulge  their  discoveries 
for  the  benefit  and  comfort  of  their  fellow-creatures,  these 
siUy,  selfish  beings  will  rather  run  the  risk  of  a  reprimand 
from  their  employers,  and  will  sooner  spoil  a  good  dinner, 
than  suffer  theur  fellows-servants  to  see  how  they  dress  it ! ! ! 

The  silly  selfishness  of  short-sighted  mortals,  is  never 
more  extremely  absurd  than  in  their  unprofitable  parsimony 
of  what  is  of  no  use  to  them,  but  would  be  of  actual  value 
to  oti^ers,  who,  in  return,  would  willingly  repay  them  ten- 
fold. However,  I  hope  I  may  be  permitted  to  quote,  in  de- 
fence of  these  culinary  professors,  a  couj^  of  lines  of  a 
favourite  old  song : 

**  If  yoa  search  the  wbrM  round,  each  profession,  you  *U  And, 
Hath  some  snug  little  secrets,  which  the  Myste^*  they  call." 

*  ^  Almost  all  arts  and  sciences  are  more  or  less  encumbered  with  vulgar  enrors 
and  pifijudices,  wfalch-avarice  and  isnorance  have  unfortunately  sufficient  influence 
to  preserve,  hy  help  (or  hindrance)  of  mysterious,  un-tefinaMe,  and  not  seldom  \mr 


INTBODUCTION.  SI 

My  receipts  are  the  results  of  experiments  carefully  madei 
and  accurately  and  circumstantially  related ; 

The  TiBfE  requisite  for  dressing  bein^  stated ; 

The  QUANTITIES  of  the  various  articles  contained  in  each 
composition  being  carefully  set  down  in  irvMBERt  WE10HT9 

and  MEAST7RE. 

The  WEIGHTS  are  cnxdrdupois  y  the  measure,  Lynt^t  gra- 
duated glass,  i.  e.  a  wine-pint  divided  into  sixteen  ounces, 
and  the  ounce  into  eight  drachms.  By  a  tmne-glass  is  to  be 
understood  two  ounces  liquid  measure ;  by  a  laive  or  toMe- 
spoonfidy  half  an  ounce ;  by  a  small  or  Ua-apoonfii^^L  drachm, 
or  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce,  is  e.  nearly  equal  to  two  drachms 
avoirdupois. 

At  some  glass  warehouses,  you  may  get  measures  divided 
into  tea  and  table-spoons.  No  cook  should  be  without  one^ 
who  wishes  to  be  regular  in  her  business. 

This  precision  has  never  before  been  attempted  in  cookery 
books,  but  I  found  it  indispenssd)le  from  the  impossibility  of 
guessing  the  quantities  intended  by  such  obscure  eiq)ression8 
as  have  been  usually  employed  for  this  purpose  in  former 
works : — 

'^For  instance :  a  bit  of  this — ^a  handful  of  that-«-tt  ninch 
of  t'  other— do  'em  over  with  an  egg — and  a  sprinkle  of  salt 
—a  dust  of  flour — a  shake  of  pepper — ^a  squeeze  of  lemon, — 
or  a  dash  of  vinegar,  &c.  are  the  constant  phrases.  Season 
it  to  your  palate,  (meaning  the  cook's,)  is  another  form  of 
speech :  now,  if  she  has  any,  (it  is  very  unlikely  that  it  is 
in  unison  with  that  of  her  employers,)  by  contmuaUy  sip- 
pin|f  piquaaUe  relishes,  it  becomes  blunted  and  insensible, 
and  loses  the  faculty  of  appreciating  delicate  flavours,  so 
that  every  thing  is  done  at  random. 

These  culinary  technicals  are  so  very  differently  under* 
stood  by  the  learned  who  write  them,  and  the  unlearned  who 
read  them,  and  their  "  nde  of  thnmh^  is  so  extremely  indefi- 

inteDJiiUe,  teehnical  ternu— Angtic^,  nieknamet— which,  Imtead  of  enUghtenias 
tJie  ■obj^ect  It  is  profesBedly  pretended  they  were  invented  to  iltambiate,  lerve  bat  to 
shroud  it  in  ahnoet  impenetrable  obscurity ;  and,  in  general,  so  extravagantly  ibmi 
are  the  profcsson  of  an  art  of  lie^ng  up  aU  the  poimi,  circumstance,  and  mystery 
of  it,  and  of  preserving  the  accumulated  prejudices  oTages  past  undiminished,  that 
one  might  fUriy  suppose  those  wlio  have  had  tlie  courage  and  perseverance  to  over- 
come these  obstacles,  and  penetrate  the  veil  of  science,  were  oieljgfated  with  placing 
difficulties  in  the  way  of  those  wlio  may  attempt  to  fnilaw  them,  on  purpose  to  deter 
fbnua  from  the  punnillj  and  that  tii^  cannot  bear  otiien  should  dUnB  tlie  hill  of 
knowledge  hy  a  readier  road  than  they  themselves  did :  and  such  is  Fetprit  d%  corpa, 
that  as  their  predecessors  suppcnted  tlieniselves  by  serving  itoat  gradiuim  et  gtU- 
lottm,  and  retailing  with  a  sparing  band  the  Infoimatitm  they  so  nardly  obtained, 
tliey  nnd  it  convenient  to  follow  tneir  example :  and,  willing  to  do  as  they  have  been 
done  by,  leave  and  bequeath  the  inheritance  uadiminislied  to  those  who  mav  succeed 
them.'*— See,  p.  10  of  Dr.  Kxtchimsr  on  TeUaeopeSi  12mo.  1835,  printt>d  K>r  Whlt- 
taker  A?e  Maria  Lane. 


9Jt  *    istROJuvcrioy. 

mtet  thttt  if  tibe  same  dish  b6  dressed  by:  different  pmons,  it 
will  generally  be  so  different,  that  nobody;  would  imagine 
they  had  worked  from  the  same  directions,  which  will  assist 
»  person  who  has  not  served  a  regular  ai^)renticeship  in  the 
lutcheui  no  more  than  readinff  '^Robinson  Crusoe*^  would 
enable  a  sailor  to  steer  safely  from  England  to  India.* 

It  \$  astonishing  how  cheap  cookery  boob  are  held  by  prac- 
tical cooks :  when  I  applied  to  an  experienced  artist  to  recom- 
mend me  some  books  that  would  give  me  a  notion  of  ihe 
rudiments  of  cookery,  he  replied,  with  a  smile,  '^  You  may 
read  Don  Quuro^e,  or  Peregrine  PiekU,  they  are  both  very 
good  books?' 

Careless  expressions  in  cookery  are  the  more  surprising, 
as  the  confectioner  is  reipilarly  attentive,  in  the  description 
d  his  preparations,  to  give  the  exact  quantities,  thougn  his 
business,  compared  to  cookery,  is  as  unimportant  as  the 
ornamental  is  inferior  to  the  useful. 

The  maker  of  blanc-mange,  custards,  &c.  and  the  endless 
and  useless  collection  of  pu^r^e  playthings  for  the  palate  (of 
first  and  second  childhood  for  the  vigour  of  manhood  seek^th 
not  to  be  sucking  sugar,  or  sipping  turtle),  is  scrupulously 
exact,  even  to  a jg^rain,  in  his  ingredients;  while  cooks  are 
iminteUigibly  indefinite,  although  they  are  intrusted  with  the 
administration  of  our  food,  upon  the  proper  quality  and  pre- 
paration of  which,  aU  our  powers  of  body  and  mind  depend ; 
their  energy  being  invariabl^r  in  the  ^tio  of  the  performance 
of  the  restorative  process,  i.  e.  the  quantity,  quality,  and 
perfect  digestion  of  what  we  eat  and  djink. 

Unless  ^  stomach  be  in  good  humour,  eveiy  part  of  the 
machinery  of  Ufi^  must  vibrate  with  languor:  can  we  then 
be  too  attentive  to  its  adjustment  ? ! ! 


CULINARY  CURIOSITIES. 

Tbe  fonowfng  specimen  of  Ute  nnaccountably  whimdeal  hariequinade  of  foreign 
kitdieiis  hi  from  «  La  Chapelle**  Noaveau  CuiBiiiier,  Paris,  1748. 

«  A  mrkej,**  in  the  shape  of  VootfroH,*'  or  «  a  kUgp-hog:*  A  liiooIAer  of  atiat- 
ton,**  in  theflhape  of  a  "  &M-At«0/*— '^  Entrto  of  pleeons/*  in  the  fona  of  a  "  tfider,** 
or  ««ii-^ashion,  or  **  in  the  form  of  a  frog^**  or,  m  *^the  forra-^f  the  m»tm.^' 


.  *  **  In  the  present  language  of  cotAery,  there  has  been  a  woAil  depaitnre  finm 
the  siftapHctty  of  our  anceetore,— «ucb  a  ffirrago  of  nnapproprtate^  and  unmeaniiv 
temn,  many  corrupted  flrom  the  French,  other*  diaguia^  nom  tiie  Italian,  some 
misapplied  from  the  German,  while  many  are  a  <|ii«raoe  to  the  Englidi.  Wbtt  can 
any  person  suppose  to  be  the  meaning  of  a  »kould»r  of  kunb  ta  tp^from,  unless  It 
were  a  poor  dish,  for  a  pennyless  poet  1  Aspect  of  ji«Jk,  wonM  appear  calculated 
for  an  .Qstrologer ;  and  shoulder  of  mutton  aurjtrioedy  designed  for  a  sbeep-etealek'.** 
—^.  C,  Jun*   . 


-TT 


THtaiojnjcnoff.  ^  33 

^*  to  ttake  tf  vig  taM  Uke  «  wH*  bearV*  tafe  c  llv^V  ^t  «o4  IM  i<«  fwinow  tte 
ftUgiwing  dnw,  Tii.  boil  together  in  Tlmgar  and  waier,«iiiie  roeemery,  thyme, 
8wee(bltfU,  bayleavei,anda«e;  when  you  ha^  it  him  ewailow  thii,  tw erfiefWy 
«Mi>  Aim  (•  4Mt4,  and  roast  Mm  forthwith.  How  **to  altil  a  eoche  fiir  a  weak 
WdleUiat  is  consumedf^take  a  red  cocke  that  is  not  too  oMe,  and  beat  him  to 
dealii.**-^See  thi  books  or  gookktb,  very  necessary  for  all  such  as  delight  thenia. 
Oathefed  by  A.  W.,  1561,  p.  IS.  How  to  boast  a  pevmi  tf  avrnm,  cvriously  aad 
well;  and  to/ares  (the  culinary  teehnicallbrfesiii^  a  boiled  leg  of  lamb  with  lad 
heniiws  and  garlic;  with  many  other  receipts  of  as  high  a  leUsh,  and  of  as  easy 
digestion  as  iJie  dtmtt  oAiwtfii,  1.  e.  a  raasted  tiger  stuifed  with  tenpenny  naili,  or 
the  **^B9fme  Boueke,''*  the  rareekin  Bowskimowmowsky  olftred  u>  Baron  Mnn- 
ehausen,  **  a  fricaaaee  of  pistdtSf  with  gunpowder  and  alcohol  sauce.**— flee  the  M- 
tHUmret tfBttron  Mtmekaugetit  13mo.  IIW,  p.  960 ;  and  (As honMa  hU  amiketOic 
atemmt »/  AmSBittr,  in  Moubbat^s  TVeafue  &n  Pwuttrf^Qwo.  1816,  p.  18. 

But  the  most  ettt«ordinary  of  ail  the  culinary  receipts  that  have  been  under  my 
tye,  is  tike  following  diabolically  cruet  directions  oi  Miaald,  **  haw  to  roast  amd  et « 
ro9»e  olive.**  "  Take  B  ooo^  or  a  di7ck,  or  some  such  livelf  ertatmre^  (but  a  goose 
M  best  of  all  fbr  this  tmrpoae,^  pull  off  all  her  ftnthers,  only  the  head  and  neck  must 
he  spared :  then  make  a  fire  round  dimut  her,  not  too  close  to  her,  that  the  smoke  do. 
not  choke  her,  and  that  the  fire  may  no«  burn  her  too  sooo ;  nor  too  fbr  ofi^  that  she  may 
aot  escape  ftee :  within  the  circle  Of  tibe  fire  let  there  be  set  small  cups  and  pots  full 
of  water,  wherein  salt  and  hooey  are  mingled :  and  let  there  be  set  also  chaigen  Ml 
«f  sodden  apples,  cut  into  small  pieces  in  the  dish.  The  goose  most  be  all  larded,  and 
Mated  over  with  butler,  to  make  her  the  more  fit  to  be  eaten,  and  may  roast  the 
hatter:  put  thCT  Ore  about  her,  but  do  not  make  too  much  haste,  when  as  you  see 
her  begin  to  roast;  fbr  by  walkhig  about,  and  flying  here  and  there,  being  cooped  In 
by  the  fire  that  stops  her  way  out,  the  unwearied  goose  is  kept  in ;  she  will  fall  to 
drink  the  water  to  quench  her  thirst  and  cool  her  tteart,  and  all  her  body,  and  tlie 
apple-sauce  wiH  maike  her  dung,  and  cleanse  and  empty  her.  And  when  she  roasteth, 
and  consumes  inwardly,  always  wet  her  head  and  heart  with  a  wet  qionge:  and 
when  you  see  her  giddy  with  running,  and  begin  to  stumble,  her  heart  wants  moist- 
tire,  and  she  H  roasted  enough.  Take  her  up,  set  her  before  your  gnesla,  and  she 
will  cry  as  you  cut  off  any  part  from  her;  and  will  be  almost  eaten  up  before  she  be 
dead ;  it  is  mighty  pleasant  to  behohl !  !**— See  Wbckbb*s  Secrete  ^  JV«t«r«,  In  foHo, 
London,  1060,  p.  148. 909.* 

"  We  suppose  Mr.  M ixald  stole  this  receipt  lh>m  the  kitchen  of  Ms  inAnud 
anajesQr  j  probably  it  might  have  been  one  of  the  dishes  the  devil  ordered  when  he 
invited  Nero  and  Caligula  to  a  feast.*'— j1.  C,  Jun. 

This  is  also  related  hi  Baptista  Pobta*b  JVotera/  Magid^  M.  IMB,  p.  381. 
This  very  curious  (but  not  scarce)  book  containsi  among  other  strange  tricks  ami 
ihncies  of  **fhe  Olden  Tfane,**  directions,  "  kow  ts  boast  tmd  boil  a  fowl  ac  tke 
tmme  tme,  »o  that  one-kaif  tkaU  be  ROAsran  mut  tke  other  aoiLsn ;  and  **  if  ya« 
hove  a  laeie  of  tooko^  how  to  persuade  ajgooee  to  roaot  himetife !  /**— See  a  second  act 
of  the  above  tragedy  in  page  80  of  the  GentleHimn*s  Magazine  for  January,  1800. 

Many  articles  were  in  vogue  in  the  14th  century,  which  are  now  obsolete.  Wa 
add  the  foIiowlRg  npeeiiaeo$  ot  the  cuuiiabt  avfaibs  or  days  op  yobb. 

Sauce  for  s  goooe^  A,  D.  l^gL 

'  **  Take  a  faire  panne,  and  set  hit  under  the  goose  whill  she  rostea ;  and  kfepe  elsM 
tte  grese  that  droppes  thereof,  and  put  thereto  a  godete  (good  deal)  of  Wyn,  and  a 
litel  vinegur,  and  verjus,  and  onyons  myneed,  or  garlek ;  then  take  the  gottes  (gvn 
of  the  gooee  and  slitte  hom,  and  scrape  horn  dene  in  water  and  salt,  and  so  waaR 
hem,  and  back  hom  smaH,  then  do  all  this  togedur  ip  a  pigfenet  (pipUn),  aad  do 
thwete  rahringes  of  oorance,  and  ^pooder  of  pqimr  and  of  ginier,  and  of  caoiell  and 
hole  Clowes  and  maces,  and  let  hit  boyle  and  serve  hit  forthe." 

*^  That  unwieldy  marine  animal  the  pobpcb  was  dressed  In  a  variety  of  modesi 
salted,  roasted,  stewed,  &c.  Our  ancestors  were  not  ringular  In  their  partiality  to 
it ;  I  find,  from  an  ingmiious  friend  <^  mine,  that  it  is  even  now,  A.  D.  1790,  soM  hi 
the  markets  of  most  towns  in  Portugal ;  the  fleah  of  it  Is  InloleraMy  hard  and 
rancid.**— WAR]fBB*s  AnUo.  Cui.  4to.  p.  IS. 

"The  swANt  was  also  a  dish  of  state,  and  hi  high  foahien  when  the  elegance  of 

*  Bee^aote  to  No.  59;  how  to  plump  the  liver  of  a  goose. 

t  **It  Is  a  curioaa  iUustratiOQ  of  the  4i  guttihuM  neii  ssc  A>p«CMJinii,  that  the 


34  IXTBOBVCTlOTf. 

tbe  feast  was  estimated  by  the  inagoitade  of  the  •iticles  of  which  it  was  GompnMii ; 
the  number  consumed  at  the  Earl  of  Northumberland'a  table,  A.  D.  108,  amouuted 
to  twenty.**— JfortkMmkerland  Hou»ehML-ko0k^  p.  108. 

"  The  CRAHS  was  «  darting  dainty  hi  WiUiam  the  Conqueror**  Ume,  and  ao  partial 
was  that  monarch  to  it.  that  when  his  prime  fiivourite,  William  Fitz-Osborne.  the 
ateward  of  the  houaehoid,  served  him  with  a  crane  scarcely  half  roasted,  the  kinf 
was  ao  Mglily  exasperated,  that  he  lifted  up  his  flat,  and  would  have  strucken  him, 
had  not  Eudo  (appofanted  Dapifer  immediately  after)  warded  off  the  blow.**— 
Wariikr*s  Antiq.  Cul.  p.  12. 

Skals,  cuRLRwa,  HBRONS,  BITTERK8,  Rttd  the  piAcocx,  that  n<4>Ie  bkd,  "  the 
food  of  lovers  and  the  meat  of  lords,**  were  also  at  this  dme  in  high  fhshion,  when 
the  baronfad  entertainments  were  characterized  by  a  grandeur  and  pompous  cere- 
monial, approaching  nearly  to  the  magnificence  of  royalQ ;  there  was  scarcely  any 
royal  or  noUe  feast  without  prcouks,  which  were  stuffed  with  spices  and  sweet 
b^'hs,  roasted  and  served  up  whole,  and  covered  after  dressing  with  the  skin  and 
feathers;  the  beak  and  comb  gilt,  and  the  tail  spread,  and  some.  Instead  of  the 
feathers,  covered  it  with  leaf  goki ;  it  was  a  common  dish  on  grand  occasions,  and 
continued  to  adorn  tbe  English  taUe  till  the  banning  of  the  seventeenth  century. 

In  Masainger's  play  of  ';''  The  City  Madam,'*  Holdfast,  exclaiming  agidnst  city 
huury,  says,  "■  three  fat  wethers  bruised,  to  make  sauce  for  a  single  peacock.'* 

Thia  bird  is  one  of  those  luxuries  which  were  often  sought,  because  Uiot  were 
seldom  found:  ita  acarcity  and  external  appearance  are  ita  only  recommendatioa'; 
the  meat  of  it  is  tough  and  tasteless. 

Another  fhvonrite  dish  at  the  tables  of  our  forefathers,  was  a  pir  of  stupendous 
magnitude,  out  of  which,  on  ita  being  opened,  a  flock  of  living  bh^  flew  forth,  to 
the  no  smaJl  aurpriae  and  amusement  of  the  guests. 

"  Foor-and-twenty  blackbirds  baked  in  a  pie ; 
When  the  pie  was  opcn'd.  the  birds  began  to  sing— 
Oh !  what  a  dainty  dish— H  is  fit  for  any  king>*' 

Thia  was  accnumon  joke  at  an  old  En^h  feast  These  ommaUd  pies  were  often 
introduced  "  to  set  on,**  as  Hamlet  says, "  a  quantity  of  barren  spectators  to  laugh  ;*' 
there  is  an  iiutanoe  of  a  dwarf  underg^>ing  such  an  iiusnutation.  About  the  year 
1630,  king  Charles  and  his  queen  were  entertained  hy  the  duke  and  dutchess  of 
Buckingham,  at  Burleigh  on  the  Hill,  on  which  occasion  Jbfprrt  Hudson,  the 
dwarf  f  was  served  up  in  a  cold  j^e. — see  YlALfOLS*a.Anudote8  of  PaxsUingy  vol. 
ii-p.  14. 

"The  BARON  OF  BSSf  WRS  another  Ikvourite  and  substantial  suppoirtof  old  English 
hospitality. 

Among  the  most  p(rfiataed  nations  of  the  15th  and  10th  centuries,  the  powdered 
(salted)  horoty  seems  to  have  been  a  dish  in  some  esteem :  OrimaJUtin  herself  couM 
not  escape  the  undistinguishhig  ftiry  of  the  cook.  Don  Anthony  of  Ouevera,  thn 
chronicler  to  Chariea  V.,  gives, the  mtowloR  account  of  a  feast  at  which  he  wait 
present  "  I  will  tell  you  no  lye,  I  sawe  such  kiodes  of  meates  eaten,  as  are  wont 
to  be  sene,  but  not  eaten — <w  a  borsb  roosted— a  cat  tii  ^0<|r— ltzards  in  hot 
hrothe,  pRoaoRS  fried,**  Alz. 

While  we  are  thus  considering  the  curious  dishes  of  olden  times,  we  will  cursorily 
mention  the  singular  diol  of  two  or  three  nations  of  antiquity,  noticed  by  Herodotus^ 
lib.  iv.  "  The  Androphagi  (the  cannibals  of  the  ancient  world)  greedily  devoured 
the  carcasses  of  their  feUow-creaturea;  while  the  inoffensive  Cabri  (a  Scythian 
tribe)  found  both  food  and  drink  hi  the  agreeable  nut  of  the  Pontic  tree.  The  Lo- 
tophagi  lived  enth'ely  on  the  fruit  of  the  iMhu  tree.  The  savvge  Troglodif/ie 
esteemed  a  Uving  eerpeut  the  most  ddicate  of  all  niorsebi;  while  the  capricious 
ItRlate  of  the  Zygunimi  preferred  the  apt  to  every  thiag."— Vide  Warmrr*s  Antiq, 
CW.  p.  135. 
,  "  The  Romtnai  in  the  luxurious  period  of  their  empire,  took  five  meals  a  day ;  a 
f  breakftuBt  (jentaemmn;)  a  dinner,  which  was  a  light  meal  without  any  formal  pre- 
paration tprandium) ;  a  kind  of  teoy  as  we  should  call  it,  between  dinner  and  supper 
\niere$tda) ;  a  sunper  {emjifi)^  which  was  their  great  mealf  and  commonly  consMed 
of  two  courses ;  the  first  of  meats,  the  second,  what  we  call  a  dessert ;  and  a  posset,- 

ancients  consldeTed  the  «»««  as  a  high  delicacy,  and  abstRtaed  firom  the  flesh  of  the 
goose  as  impure  and  iBdigeatd>le.*'-^00MLAT  on  Povliry,  p»  36. 


UXTBDDVtfnOS,  35 


6r  KHiMtbuiEdellcioiw  alter  mipv  (ffwrmfii)."— ApAM*a  Jl#».  jf  lUlf .  M  til- 
tlon^vo.  IIM,  9. 434  and  447. 

<*The  Romani  tmuUy  began  their  taaeitaSMMBli  wttb  agPi  imI  eniei  Willi 
flnlta;  bence,  An  ovo  vaqvm  An  mai.a,  flan  the  baglnnliv  10  tlie  and  of  anppar, 
JfbrtU.  SaL L  3. 6 ;  Ge.  #Vm.  iz.9B. 

.  *«Thedlahe»(#dato)heid  tothe  Mgfaeat  wtiaaatinn  hy  the  to— na,  iw  ennM»> 
rated,  OelL  vU.  18,  Maeroi.  4U.  it  9,  MmrtM.  v.  79,  U.  4B,  zL  S3,  *e.  ft  peaaoek 
(FATO),  ir«rat.  ScC  iL  S.  93,  JmomuU.  i.  lO,  fint  need  bjr  Boiteniiua,  the  orator,  at 
a  nipper,  which  he  am  wlwn  admitted  into  the  college  of  prieHi,  (edttsali  mmd 
saeerdom.)  Plin.  x.  90,  a.  S3;  a  pheaaant,  (ivAaiAaA,  «x  Pbaal.  CvlcMw  JlmrM,) 
Martial,  iil  58,  zlil.  73,  Senee.  ad  Heir.  9,  Petion.  79,  ManiiTrSTt ;  a  bird  called 
Mtagen  vel-mo,  flom  Ionia  or  Phrygia,  H^raL  1>«A  ii.  54,  JIfarCtal.  zili  ill.  61,  a 
fttineft-hen,  (avu  4fra,  Herat  lb.  OaUimm  Mkmidum  vel  ja/riemmmt  iwmaX.  jL 
142, Martial.  zilL 7^4;  a MeUan  crane;  an  Ambraelaa fcid;  nWhUi^hia, famato ; 
thruabea,  tmrdi;  docu,  geeae,  dec  Tomaoui.ch,  (d  roivm,)  vel  uicion,  (ah  nuaea;) 
aausagea  or  puddings,  Jiteenal.  z.  355.  MmrtM.  A  9,  Pctraa.  3L"— Vide  mL 
p.  447. 

That  the  English  readw  may  be  mahled  to  form  aome  idea  ef  the  iMteroteneooi 
meaBea  with  which  the  Roman  palate  was  delisted,  I  introdooe  the  fotlowiag 
receipt  from  Afuima, 

u  Thick  saucb  ron  a  noxLsn  cmcKiR^— Pot  the  Ibliowtag  iagredieaia  taMo  n 
mortar:  aniaeed,  dried  mint,  and  lazar-root (aimilar  10  aMafaetida), cover  then  with 
vfai^ar;  add  dates;  poor  in  Hquamen,  oU,  and  a  amaO qoantlty  irf"  muataid  aeedJ ; 
laduoe  all  to  a  proper  thicirncm  with  oort  wine  wanned;  and  then  pour  thia  aainc 
over  your  chicken,  which  should  previoualy  be  boiled  in  anlse-aeed  water." 

Ziqnammi  and  6'anm  were  synooymoua  terms  Tor  tlie  same  thhig ;  the  (brmer 
adopliBd  hi  the  room  of  tlie  latter,  about  the  age  of  Jh/rOitM.  It  was  a  liqatd,  and 
thus  prepared:  the  jni<#  of  laige  llsh,  and  a  variety  of  small  flsh,  were  put  into  a 
vessd  and  weU  salted,  and  expoMd  to  the  aon  tilt  they  becaaoe  putrid.  Attquorwaa 
produced  in  a  short  time,  which  beu^  strained  off,  waa  the  lifKaaMa.— Vide  LisTaa 
m  Apiekan^  p.  16,  notes. 

£9«a«c««/4mcA0««,  ash  la  usually  made  for  aale,  when  It  haa  been  opened  about 
tea  days,  is  not  much  unlike  the  Roman  Uqumnem.  Bee  No.  433.  Some  suppose  it 
was  the  same  thing  aa  the  Russian  Osvtar,  which  la  prepared  from  the  roe  of  the 
sturgeon. 

The  BLACK  anoTH  of  LoMdmrnum  will  long  oontinne  to  ezdle  the  wonder  of  the 
phifoeopher,  and  the  disgust  of  the  epicure.  What  the  IngredlentB  of  this  saUe 
cemposltion  were,  we  cannot  exactly  asrcrtain.  .Ait  PoUux  says,  the  Laoedwno- 
nian  black  broth  was  (food,  thickened  in  a  certain  way :  Dr.  Listsr  (m  AMehm} 
supposes  it  to  have  been  kor'^hUod;  if  so,  this  celebrated  Bparun  dldi  bore  no 
very  distant  resemblance  to  the  blaek-ptMiiurt  of  our  days.  It  could  not  be  a  very 
alluring  meas,  since  a  citizen  of  Sifbarit  hanng  tasted  it,  declared  it  was  no  tonger 
a  matter  of  astonishment  with  him,  why  the  Spttrtmiu  were  so  ftarless  of  death, 
since  any  one  in  his  senses  would  much  rather  die,  than  exiat  on  such  execrable 
ibod.— Vide  AtAenmvMj  lib.  iv.  c  &  ViHien  Dionysius  the  tyrant  had  tasted  the 
black  brothj  he  exchiimed  against  it  as  miserable  stuff;  the  cook  replied—*'  It  waa 
no  wonder,  for  the  sauce  was  wanting.*'  **  What  sauce  1"  says  Dionyatas.  The 
answer  was,—**  Labour  and  $xerei»ej  hunger  and  tik*r«t,  tkeaa  an  CJU  aoMM  wa 
Lacedmunian*  U9t^  and  they  make  tne  coarsest  fare  agreeaUe.— Cickko,  3  ToseuL 


INVimXIONS  TO  DINNER. 


Iir  '<  the  affairs  of  the  mouth^  the  strictest  potietiiality  is 
indispensable;  the  gastronomer  ought  to  be  as  accurate  an 
dbsenrer  of  time,  as  the  astrovoicbr.  The  least  delay  pro- 
duces fatal  and  irreparable  misfortunes. 

Almost  all  othet  ceremonies  and  civil  duties  may  be  put 
6ft  for  several  hours  without  much  inconvenience,  and  all 
may  be  postponed  without  absolute  danger.  A  little-delay 
may  try  tiie  patience  of  those  who  are  waiting;  but  the  act 
itself  wiU  be  equally  perfect  and  equally  valid.  Procrasti- 
nation sometimes  is  rather  advantageous  than  prejudicial. 
It  gives  time  for  reflection,  and  may  prevent  our  takinff  a 
step  which  wpuld  have  made  us  miseraUe  for  life ;  the  delay 
of  a  courier  has  prevented  the  conclusion  of  a  convention, 
the  signing  of  which  might  have  occasioned  the  ruin  of  a 
nation. 

If,  from  aflfairs  the  most  important,  we  descend  to  our 
pleasures  and  amusements,  we  shall  find  new  arguihents  in 
support  of  our  assertions.  The  putting  off  of  a  rendezvous, 
or  a  ball,  &c.  will  make  them  the  more  delightful*  To  hope 
is  to  enfoy* 

"  Man  nevw  is,  but  always  to  be  bteit.** 

The  anticipaticMi  of  pleasure  warms  our  imagination,  and 
keeps  IJiose  feelings  alive,  which  possession  too  often  extin- 
guishes. 

**  *T  i>  M^«tiitW  onty  AMkM  M  bteflt ; 
Enjoffmrnt  dkappoinii  us  at  the  beBt.** 

Dr.  Johnson  has  most  sagaciously  said ;  ^  Such  is  the  state 
of  life,  that  none  are  happy,  but  by  the  anticipation  of 
change :  the  change  itself  is  nothing :  when  we  have  made 
it,  the  next  wish  is,  inunediately  to  change  again.** 

However  singular  our  assertions  may  have  at  first  ap« 
peared  to  those  who  have  not  considered  the  subject,  we 
hope  by  this  time  we  have  made  converts  of  our  readers, 
aim  convinced  the  "  Amateurs  de  Bonne  Chere^  of  the  truth 
and  importance  of  our  remarks ;  and  that  they  wiU  remem- 
ber, that  DINNER  is  the  only  act  of  the  day  which  cannot  be 
mit  off  witib  impunity,  for  even  five  minutes. 


mviTATUxira  m  BumoBS.  47 

la  a  well-KgiAated  fsmily,  all  the  docks  nd  vatdies 
shoidda^e;  on  this  depends  the  fate  of  tbe  fflmmr;  ^^ti^ 
would  be  agr^able  to  toe  Btomach,  and  realoniiive  to  tbe 
syBtm,  if  served  at  five  o'clock,  will  fm  uneatahte  aad  ia- 
nutritiTe  and  iiidigestible  at  a  <iva&tba  past. 

The  dining-nxMii  should  be  f uinished  with  a  md-goin^ 
clock;  the  space  over  the  kitchooi  fiiMilace  wiSk  anodier, 
vibrating  in  unison  with  the  format  so  jiaced,  that  the  eo€k 
may  keep  one  eye  on  the  t;lock»  and  tne  other  on  the  spit^ 
Uc,  She  will  calculate  to  a  minute  the  time  required  to 
roast  a  large  capon  or  a  little  lark,  and  is  ec^ually  attentive 
to  the  degree  of  heat  of  her  stove,  and  the  tmie  her  sauce 
remains  on  it,  when  to  withdraw  the  bakings  from  the  oven, 
the  roast  fh>m  the  spit,  and  the  stew  (tarn  the  pan. 

With  all  our  love  oi  punctuality,  the  first  consideration 
must  stiU  be,  that  the  dinner  "  be  weU  (kme,  when  *t  iB  done.** 

It  ^  is  a  common  fault  with  cooks  who  are  anxious  about 
time,  to  overdress  every  thing— the  guests  had  better  wait 
than  the  dinner^a  little  delay  will  improve  their  appetite ; 
but  if  the  dinner  waits  for  the  guests,  it  will  be  detenorated 
every  minute :  the  host  who  wishes  to  entertain  his  fhends 
with  food  perfectly  well  dressed,  while  he  most  earnestly 
endeavours  to  impress  on  their  minds  the  importance  of 
oeing  punctual  to  me  appointed  hour,  will  still  allow  his  cook 
a  quarter  of  an  hour's  grace. 

The  old  adage  that  '^the  eye  is  often  bigger  than  the 
belly,"  is  often  verified  by  tlie  ridiculous  vanity  of  those 
who  wish  to  make  an  appearance  above  their  fortune. 
Nothing  can  be  more  ruinous  to  real  comfort  than  the  too 
common  custom  of  setting  out  a  table,  with  a  parade  and  a 

Erofusion,  unsmted  not  only  to  the  circumstances  Of  the 
osts,  but  to  the  number  of  the  guests;  or  more  fatal  to 
true  hosi»tality«  than  the  multiplicity  of  dishes  which  luxury 
has  made  fashionable  at  the  tables  of  the  great,  the  wealthy, 
and  the  ostentatious,  who  are,  often,  neither  great  nor 
wealthy. 

Such  pompous  preparation,  instead  of  bemg  a  compliment 
to  our  guests,  is  nothing  better  than  an  indirect  offence ;  it  is 
a  tacit  insinuation^^that  it  is  absolutely  necessary  to  provide 
such  delicacies  to  bribe  the  depravity  of  their  palates,  when 
we  desire  the  pleasure  of  their  company;  ana  that  society 
now,  must  be  purehased,  at  the  same  price  Swift  torn 
Pope  he  was  obliged  to  pay  for  it  in  Ireland.  **  I  should 
hardly  prevail  to  mid  one  visiter,  if  I  were  not  able  to  hire 
him  with  a  bottle  (tf  wine."  Vid&  Swift's  letters  to  Pope, 
July  10th,  1733. 

D 


38  imriTATioNs  to  dinn£b. 

When  twfoe  as  much  cooking  is  undertaken  as  there  are 
servants,  or  conveniences  in  the  kitchen  to  do  it  properly, 
dishes  must  be  dressed  long  before  the  dinner  hour,  and 
stand  by  spoiling — ^the  poor  cook  loses  her  credit,  and  the 
poor  guests  get  indigestions.  Why  prepare-  for  eight  or  ten 
friends,  more  than  sufficient  for  twenty  or  thirty  visiters  ? 
"  Enough  is  as  good  as  a  feast,'*  and  a  prudent  provider,  who 
sensibly  takes  measure  of  the  stomachic,  inistead  of  the 
SILLY  ocular,  appetite  of  his  guests,  may  entertain  his 
friends,  three  times  as  often,  and  ten  times  as  well. 

It  is  your  senseless  second  courses — ^ridiculous  variety 
of  WINES,  LK^UEURS,  ICE3,*  DESSEi^TS,  &c. — whicl^are  served 
up  merely,  to  feed  the  eye,  or  pamper  palled  appetite,  that 
ffoercome  the  stomach  and  paralyze  difes^iofh  smd  seduce 
"  children  of  a  larger  growth"  to  sacrifice  the  health  and 
comfort  of  several  days,  for  the  baby-pleasure  of  tickling 
their  tongue  for  a  few  minutes,  with  trifles  and  custards! ! ! 
&c.  &o. 

"  Indigestion  will  sometimes  overtake  the  most  experi- 
enced epicure;  when  fiie  gustatory  nerves  are  in  good 
humour,  hunger  and  savoury  viands  will  sometimes  seduce 
the  tongue  of  a  ^^rand  gourmand^  to  betray  the  interests  of 
his  jstomach  in  spite  of  ms  brains. 

"On  such  an  unfortunate  occasion,  when  the  stomach 
sends  forth  eructantt  sigbals  of  distress,- the  pwisUdtic  per- 
suaders  are  as  agreeable  and  effectual  assistance  as  can  be 
offered;  and  for  delicate  constitutions,  and  those  that  are 
impaired  by  age  or  intemperance,  are  a  valuable  panacea. 

"  They  derive,  and  deserve  this  name,  from  the  peculiar 
mildness  of  their  (^ration.  One  or  two  very  gently  in- 
crease the  action  of  the  principal  viscera,  help  them  to  do 
their  work  a  little  faster,^  and  enable  the  stomach  to  serve 
with  an  ejectment  whatever  offends  it,  and  move  it  into  the' 
bowels. 

**  Thus  indigestion  is  easily  and  speedily  removed,  appe- 
tite restored,  the  mouths  of  the  absorbing  vessels  bemg 
cleansed,  nutrition  is  facilitated,  and  stren^  of  body,  and 
energy  of  mind,  are  the  happy  results."  See  "Peptic 
Precepts,"  from  which  we  extract  the  ibUoMringprescnp*' 
tion — 

*  SwiBing  cold  toda  loattr  immediately  after  eating  a  hearty  dlmier,  is  another 
▼ery  unwholesome  custom— 4alce  good  gii^r  beer  if  yon  are  thusty,  and  don*t  llMa 
Sir  John  Barleycorn's  cordial. 

t  Strong  peppermint  or  finger  lounges  are  an  excellent  help  for  that  flatulence 
With  which  some  aged  and  dyspeptic  people  are  afflieted  three  or  four  boon  after 
dUner. 


INVITATIONS  TO  Dnonot.  M 

To  make  forty  peristaltic  PCRSVADSRSf 
Take 

Trakey  ibabarb,  finely  pulverized,  two  dnduoi, 

S^rnip  (by  weight),  one  draelmi. 

Oil  oi  carraway,  ten  dn^  (mlniffis), 

Made  into  |)illB,eacb  of  whkhwULtxmfahktkrmgrtinM^rhdMti* 

^^The  D08E  OF  THE  PERSUADERS  mitst  be  adapted  to  the 
constitutional  peculiarity  of  the  patient.  When  you  wish  to 
accelerate  or  augment  the  alvine  exoneration,  take  two, 
three,  or  more,  according  to  the  effect  you  desire  to  produce. 
Two  pilU  will  do  as  much  for  one  person,  zsjh^  or  tix  will 
for  another :  they  will  generally  vei^  regularly  perform  what 
you  wish  to-day,  without  interfering  with  what  you  hope 
will  happen  to-morrow;  and  are  therefore  as  convenient  an 
argument  against  constipation  as  any  we  are  acquainted 
with* 

^^  The  most  convenient  opportunity  to  introduce  them  to 
the  stomach,  is  early  in  the  morning,  when  it  is  unoccupied, 
and  has  no  particular  business  of  digestion,  &c.  to  attend 
to— i.  e.-  at  least  half  an  hour  before  breakfast.  Physic 
must  never  interrupt  the  stomach,  when  it  is  busy  in  digest- 
ing food. 

"  From  two  to  four  persuaders  will  generally  produce  one 
additionad  motion,  within  twelve  hours.  They  may  be  taken 
at  any  time  by  the  most  delicate  females,  whose  constitutions 
are  so  often  distressed  by  constipation,  and  destroyed  by  the 
drastic  purgatives  they  take  to  relieve  it.** 

The  cloth*  should  be  laid  in  the  parlour,  and  ail  the  para- 
phernalia of  the  dinner-table  completely  arranged,  at  least 
half  an  hour  before  dinner-time. 

The  cook's  labour  will  be  lost,  if  the  parlour-table  be  not 
ready  for  action,  and  the  eaters  ready  for  the  eatables,  which 
the  least  delay  will  irreparably  injure :  therefore,  the  oovr- 
HAND  will  be  punctual  for  the  sake  of  gratifying  his  ruling 
passion ;  the  invalid,  to  avoid  the  danger  of  encountering 
an  indige^ion  from  eating  ill-dressed  food;  and  the  ratioitai. 
EPICURE,  who  happily  attends  the  banquet  with  **  mens  sand 
incorpore  sano,^  will  keep  the  time  not  only  for  these  strong 
reasons,  but  that  he  may  not  lose  the  advantage  of  being 


*  Le  Cfrand  SommeJter,  or  chief  butlkr,  in  fbnner  times  was  expeeted  to  be 
esnecially  accompttshed  in  the  art  of  folding  table  linen,  so  as  to  lay  his  napkins  in 
different  ftmns  every  day :  these  transformations  are  particularly  described  in  Rosa^t 
InstroctiODS  for  the  OfiicerB  of  the  Mouth,  1683,  p.  JU,  dec.  '^To  pleat  a  napkin  in 
the  Ibrm  of  a  cockle-shett  double*'— "in  the  form  of  hen  and  chickens**— "shape 
of  two  capons  in  a  pye**— «r  ^'liite  a  dog  with  a  cellar  aboat  hia  neck*'— and  many 
Qtben  equally  whlnaical* 


40  I1IVITATIC»78  TO  DINNBK. 

introduced  to  the  other  guests.  He  consideis  not  only  if  hat 
is  on  the  table,  but  who  are  around  it :  his  principal  induce- 
ment to  leave  his  own  fireside,  is  the  chamn  of  a^freeable 
and  instructive  society,  and  the  opportunity  of  makmg  con- 
nexions, which  may  augment  the  mterest  and  enjoyment  of 
existence. 

It  is  the  most  piecing  part  of  the  duty  of  Uie  master  of 
die  feast  (especially  when  the  guest»are  not  very  numerous), 
to  take  advantage  of  these  moments  to  introduce  them  to 
one  another,  naming  them  individually  in  an  audible  voice, 
and  adroitly  laying  hold  of  those  ties  of  acquaintanceship  or 
profession  which  may  exist  betw^n  them. 

This  will  much  augment  the  pleasures  of  the  festive  board, 
to  which  it  is  indeed  as  indispensable  a  prelude,  as  aii  over- 
ture is  to  an  opera :  and  the  host  will  thus  acquire  an  addi- 
tional claim  to  the  gratitude  of  his  guests.  We  urge,  this 
point  more  strongly,  because,  from  want  of  attention  to  it, 
we  have  seen  more  than  once  persons  whcmi  many  kindred 
ties  would  have  drawn  closely  tc^ether,  pass  an  entire 
day  without  opening  their  lips  to  each  other,  because  they 
were  ihutually  ignorant  of  each  other's  nanies,  professions, 
and  pursuits. 

To  put  an  end  at  once  to  all  ceremony  as  to  the  order  in 
which  the  euests  are  to  sit,  it  will  save  much  time  and 
trouble,  if  me  mistress  of  the  mansion  adopts  the  simple 
and  elegant  method  of  placing  the  name  of  each  guest  in 
the  plate  which  is  intended  for  him.  This  proceemng  will 
be  of  course  the  result  of  consideration,  and  the  host  will 
place  those  together  whom  he  thinks  will  harmonize  best. 

Le  Journal  aes  Dames  informs  us,  that  in  several  fashionable 
houses  in  Paris,  a  new  arrangement  has  been  introduced  in 
placing  the  company  at  a  dinner-table. 

^  The  ladies  first  take  their  places,  leaving .  intervals  for 
the  gentlemen ;  after  being  seated,  each  is  desired  to  call  on 
a  gentleman  to  sit  beside  her ;  and  thus  the  lady  of  the  house 
is  relieved  from  all  embarrassment  of  itiqtteUe  as  to  rank 
and  pretensions,^'  &c. 

But,  without  doubt,  says  the  Journalist,  this  method  has 
its  inconveniences. 

^'  It  may  happen  that  a  bashful  beauty  dare  not  name  thf 
object  of  her  secret  wishes ;  and  an  acute  observer  may  de- 
termine, from  a  single  glance,  that  the  decked  is  not  always 
the  chosen^ 

If  the  party  is  large,  the  founders  of  the  feast  may  sit  in 
the  middle  of  the  table,  instead  of  at  each  end,  thus  they, 
will  enjoy  the  pleasure  of  attending  equally  to  all  their 


UrrSTATtKU  VO  MNftEMm  41 

Mends ;  ani  lacing  in  scmie  degree  relieved  (tcm  the  oeev- 
patioti  of  carving,  will  have  an  oppoTtunity  of  administering 
all  those  little  attentions  which  contribute  so  much  to  Ae 
comfbrt  of  their  guests. 

If  the  GUESTS  have  any  respect  for  their  host»  or 
prefer  a  well-dressed  dinner  to  one  that  is  spoiled,  instead 
of  coming  half  ^an  hour  after,  they  will  take  care  to  make 
their  appearance  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  the  time 
appointed. 

.  The  operations  of  the  cook  are  governed  by  the  clock ;  the 
moment  the  roasts,  &c.  are  ready,  they  must  go  to  the  table, 
if  they  are  to  be  eaten  in  perfection. 

An  invitation  to  come  at  rivE  o'clock  seems  to  be  gene- 
rally understood  to  mean  nx ;  five  PRECtSELV,  hetfpa$ijh€; 
and  KOT  LATER  THAN  FiTE  (so  that  dinner  may  oe  on  the 
table  within  five  minutes  after,  allowing  this  for  the  variation 
of  watches),  five  oVlock  exactly. 

Be  it  known  to  ail  loyal  subjects  of  the  empire  of  good- 
living,  that  the  committee  of  taste  have  unanimously 
resolved,  that  *^  an  invitation  to  eta.  beta.  pi.  must  be  in 
writing,  and  sent  at  least  ten  days. before  the  banquet;  and 
must  be  answered  in  writing  (as  soon  as  x)Qssible  alter  it 
is  received),  within  twenty-four  hours  at  least,**  espe- 
cially if  it  be  not  accepted :  then,  in  addition  to  the  usual 
complimentary  expressions  of  thanks,  &c.  the  best  possible 
reasons  must  be  assigned  for  the  non-acceptance,  as  a  parti- 
cular pre-engagement,  or  severe  indisposition,  &c.  Before 
^e  bearer  of  it  delivers  it,  he  should  ascertain  if  the  person 
it  is  directed  to  is  at  home ;  if  he  is  not,  when  he  will  be ; 
and  if  he  is  not  in  town,  to  brin^  the  summons  back. 

Nothing  can  be  more  disobligmg  than  a  refusal  which  is 
not  grounded  on  some  very  strong  and  unavoidable  cause, — 
except  not  coming  at  the  appointed  hour; — **  according  to  the 
laws  of  conviviality,  a  certificate  from  a  sherifTs  officer,  a 
doctor,  or  an  undertaker,  are  the  only  pleas  which  are  admis- 
sible. The  duties  which  invitation  imposes  do  not  fall  only 
on  the  persons  invited,  but,  like  all  other  social  duties,  are 
reciprocal. 

**  As  he  who  has  accepted  an  invitation  cannot  disengage 
himself  from  it;  the  master  of  the  feast  cannot  put  off  ^e 
entertainment  on  any  pretence  whatever.  Urgent  business, 
sickness,  not  even  death  itself,  can  dispense  with  the  obliga- 
tion which  he  is  under  of  giving  the  enfertainment  for  which 
he  has  sent  out  invitations,  which  have  been  accepted ;  for 
in  the  elxtreme  cases  of  compulsory  absence,  or  deathf  his 
place  may  be  fiUed  by  his  friend  or  executor.*' — Fide  U 

D3 


Mawad  des  Amphitryons^  8 vo.  Ports,  1808 ;  and  Cours  Gastro- 
nomgue^  1809;  to  which  the  reader  is  referred  for  farther 
instructions. 

It  is  the  least  punishment  that  a  blundering,  ill-bred  booby 
can  receive,  who  comes  half  an  hour  after  the  time  he  was 
bidden,  to  find  the 'soup  removed,  and  the  fish  cold:  more- 
over, for  such  an  offence,  let  him  also  be  mtUcied  in  a  pecu- 
niary penalty,  to  be  applied  to  the  fund  for  the  benefit  of 
DECAYED  cooks.  This  is  the  least  punishment  that  can  be 
inflicted  on  one  whose  silence,  or  violation  of  an  engagement, 
tends  to  paralyze  an  entertainment,  and  to  draw  his  friend 
into  useless  expense. 

BoiLEAU,  the  French  satirist,  has  a  shrewd  observation  on 
this  subject.  ^  I  have  always  been  punctual  at  the  hour  of 
dinner,'*  says  the  bard ;  '*  for  I  knew,  that  all  those  whom  I 
kept  waiting  at  that  provoking  interval,  would  employ  those 
unpleasant  moments  to  sum  up  all  my  faults. — ^Boileau  is 
indeed  a  man  of  genius,  a  very  honest  man ;  but  that  dila- 
tory and  procrastinating  way  he  has  got  into,  would  mar  the 
virtues  of  an  angel." 

There  are  some  who  seldom  keep  an  appointment :  we 
can  assure  them  they  as  seldom  ^  'scape  without  whipping," 
and  exciting  those  murmurs  which  inevitably  proceed  from 
the  best-related  stom^hs,  when  they  are  empty,  and  im- 
patient to  be  filled. 

The  most  amiable  animals  when  hungry  become  ill-tem- 
pered :  our  best  /riends  employ  the  time  they  are  kept  wait- 
ing, in  recollecting  and  repeating  any  real  faults  we  have, 
and  attributing  to  us  a  thousand  imaginary  ones. 

ni-bred  beings,  who  indulge  their  own  caprice,  regard- 
less how  they  wound  the  feelings  of  others,  if  they  possess 
brilliant  and  useful  talents,  may  occasionally  be  endured 
as  convenient  tools;  but  deceive  themselves  sadly,  even 
though  they  possess  all  the  wisdom,  and  all  the  wit  in 
the  world,  if,  they  fancy  they  can  ever  be  esteemed  as 
friends. 

Wait  for  no  one :  as  soon  as  the  clock  strikes,  say  grace, 
and  begin  the  business  of  the  day, 

"  And  good  digestlmi  wait  on  appetite, 
And  bealtb  on  both." 


MANNEK8  HAKE   THE   MAK. 

Good  manners  have  often  made  the  fortune  of  many,  who 
have  had  nothing  else  to  recommend  them : 


GASTDIO.  43 

111  mafinera  have  as  often  marred  the  hope  of  Iboee  who 
have  had  every  thing  else  to  advance  them. 

These  regulations  may  appear  a  little  rigoroiis  to  those 
phlegmatic  philosophers. 


"  Who,  pait  an  pteMiiraa,  dana  the  Joft  of  M 
With  rey*reiMf  dnlnen  and  grave  nqmcanee,** 

and  are  incapable  of  comprehending  the  importance  (espe- 
cially when  many  are  invited)  of  a  truly  hospitable  entertam- 
ment :  but  genuine  connoUteun  in  the  science  of  good  cheer 
will  vote  us  thanks  for  our  endeavours  to  initiate  well-dis- 
posed amateurs* 

CARVING. 

Ceremony  does  not,  in  any  thing,  more  commonly  and 
completely  triumph  over  comfort,  than  in  the  administration 
of  **  the  honours  of  the  table." 

Those  who  serve  out  the  loaves  and  fishes  seldom  seem 
to  understand  that  he  is  the  best  carver  who  fills  the  plates 
of  the  greatest  number  of  guests,  in  the  least  portion  of 
time. 

To  effect  this,  fill  the  plates  and  send  them  round,  instead 
of  asking  each  individual  if  they  choose  soup,  fish.  Ice.  or 
what  particular  .part  they  prefer;  for,  as  they  cannot  all  be 
choosers,  you  will  thus  escape  making  any  invidious  dis- 
tinctions. 

A  dexterous  carver*  (especially  if  he  be  possessed  with 
that  detennined  enemy  to  ceremony  and  sauce,  a  keen  appe- 
tite,) will  help  half  a  dozen  people  in  half  the  time  one  of 
your  would-be-thought  polite  folks  wastes  in  making  civil 
faces,  &c.  to  a  single  guest. 

It  would  save  a  great  deal  of  time,  &c.  if  poultry,  espe- 
cially laige  turkeys  and  geese,  were  sent  to  table  ready  cut 
up.    (No.  530.t) 

Fish  that  is  fried  should  be  previously  divided  into  such 
portions  as  are  fit  to  help  at  table.    (See  No.  145.) 

A  prudent  carver  will  cut  fair,t  observe  an  equitable 

*  In  days  of  yore  "  Le  Grand  EtMfer  TVmeAant,"  or  the  M AiTBft  cirvbEi  was 
the  next  ofileer  of  the  mouth  in  rank  to  the  "  Jtfaltre  tBUA^'*  and  the  technical 
terms  of  hte  art  were  as  slnpilar  as  any  of  thoae  which  ornament  **  Groae's  Classical 
Blang  Dictionary/*  or  '*  The  Oipsies*  GlMieriih:"  the  only  one  of  these  old  pbrsses 
now  in  common  nse  is, "  cut  up  the  turkst  :**•— we  an  no  longer  derired  to  '*  dia* 
figure  a  feacock**—"  unbrace  a  nvca**-^**  unlace  a  ooiniT**-'^tame  a  cmA»**-^ 
"  tire  an  aoo^'—and  "  spoil  the  aaN,*'  J^— Sea  ikstraettMu/n*  tjks  Qffesrs  •/  Oe 
JUMttAf  by  Bo8B|  16BS. 

t  Thoae  in  the  parlour  shonid  recollect  the  importance  of  setting  a  sood  example 
to  their  friends  at  the  second  taUe.    If  th^  cat  Artod,  mtUx  ekeese,  «c.  rAiRi.Y»it 


44  CXRVXNO. 

diftributioii  of  the  dainties  he  is  servinff  out,  tad  vegulate 
his  helps,  by  the  proportioii  which  his  dish  bears  to  tlie  num- 
ber he  has  to  divide  it  amon^,  taking  into  this  reckoning 
the  quantum  of  appetite  the  several  guests  are  presmned  to 
possess. 

"  Study  their  genius,  caprices,  god— 
They,  in  return,  may  liaply  study  you: 
Some  wish  a  pinion,  some  |«efer  a  leg, 
Some  for  a  merry-  tliought,  or  sideebone  bcf  , 
The  wings  of  fowls,  then  slices  of  the  round 
The  trail  of  woodcock:,  of  codfish  the  sound. 
Let  strict  impartiality  preside, 
Nor  freaic,  nor  favour,  nor  affection  guide." 

From  the  BjiUQtrtT. 

The  guest  who  wishes  to  ensure  a  hearty  welcome,  and 
frequent  invitation  to  the  board  of  hospitality,  may  calcu- 
late that  the  **'  easier  he  is  pleased,  the  oftener  he  will  be 
invited/*  Instead  of  unblushinsly  demanding  of  the  fair 
hostess  that  the  prime  ^Ht-hif^  of  every  dish  be  put  on  your 
plate,  receive  (if  not  with  pleasure,  or  even  content)  with 
the  liveliest  expressions  of  thankfulness  whatever  is  pre- 
sented to  you,  and  forget  not  to  praise  the  cook,  and  tlie 
same  shall  be  reckoned  unto  you  even  as  the  praise  of  the 
mistress. 

The  invalid  or  the  epicure,  when  he  dines  out,  to  save 
trouble  to  his  friends,  may  carry  with  him  a  portable  maoa- 
2iirE  OF  TASTE.    (See  No.  462.) 

^  If  he  does  not  like  his  fare,  he  may  console  himself  witii 
the  reflection,  that  he  need  not  expose  his  mouth  to  the  like 
mortification  again :  mercy  to  the  feeling  of  the  mistress 
of  the  mansion  will  forbid  his  then  appearing  otherwise  than 
absolutely  delighted  wi^  it,  notwithstandii^  it  may  be  his 
extreme  antipathy." 

^  If  he  likes  it  exer  so  little,  he  vnll  find  occasion  to  eon- 
ffratulate  himself  on  the  advantage  his  digestive  organs  will 
derive  ftrom  his  making  a  moderate  dinner,  and  consolation 
from  oontem^dating  the  double  relish  he  is  creating  for  the 
following  meal,  and  anticipating  the  (to  him)  rare  and  deli- 
cious zest  of  (that  best  sauce)  good  appetite,  and  an  un- 
restrained indulgence  of  his  gormandising  fancies  at  the 
chop-house  he  frequents."  ^ 

**  Never  intrust  a  cook-teaser  with  the  important  office  of 
CARVER*  or  place  .him  within  reach  of  a  muce-^oat.  These, 
chop-house  cormorants,  who 

will  00  twice  as  far  as  if  they  hack  and  mangle  it,  as  if  they  liad  not  half  so  much 
consideration  for  those  io^the  kitchen  as  a  goml  ■portamaa  ha»  fiir  Ua  dog^. 


GAXfnw.  4^ 


Tet  on  (fain  podiiof  delfo  at  taooM  to  eat,* 

are,  generally,  Xremendtnmly  oflteioas  in  serving  onl  Um 
loavef  and  mdies  of  other  people ;  for,  mider  the  notioB  of 
appealing  ezquimtely  aauaUe,  and  killin|(iy  agreeaUe  to  the 
gueate,  they  are  ever  on  the  watch  to  diatribote  thnnaelTes 
the  dainties  which  it  is  the  peculiar  part  of  the  maater  and 
mistress  to  senre  out,  and  is  to  them  the  most  pleasant  pait 
of  the  business  of  the  banquet :  the  |^asuie  of  nelping  their 
friends  is  the  gratiftcation,  which  is  their  rewara  for  the 
trouble  they  have  l^  in  preparing  the  feast.  Such  gentiy 
are  the  terror  of  all  good  housewives:  to  obtain  their 
favourite  cut  they  will  so  unmerciftdly  mangle  your  joints, 
that  a  dainty  dog  would  hardly  get  a  meal  from  them  after; 
which,  manaeed  by  the  eonsi<ferative  hands  of  an  old  house- 
keeper, would  furnish  a  decent  dinner  for  a  large  family**** 
— ^Vlde  **  Almanach  de$  dmrmandi.^ 

I  once  heard  a  gentle  hint  on  this  subject,  given  to  a  ^im^ 
nunddfiMcier,  who  by  looking  too  long  at  a  Stilton  cheese* 
was  at  last  completely  overcome,  by  his  eye  exciting  his 
appetite,  till  it  became  quite  ungovernable ;  and  unconscious 
of  every  thing  but  the  rnity  object  of  his  contemplation,  he 
began  to  pick  out,  in  no  small  portions,  the  primest  parts  his 
eye  could  select  from  the  centre  of  the  cheese. 

The  good-natured  founder  of  the  feast,  highly  amused  at 
the  ecstasies  each  morsel  created  in  its  passage  over  the 
palate  of  the  enraptured  gourmand^  thus  encouraged  the  per- 
severance of  his  guest—'*  Cut  away,  my  dear  sir,  cut  away, 
use  no  ceremony,  I  pray :  I  hope  you  will  pick  out  all  the 
best  of  my  cheese.  Don't  you  think  that  ras  rind  and  the 
ROTTEN  tvu/  do  very  'wdlfor  my  wife  andfandLy !  f  There 
is  another  set  of  terribly ^'rce  and  eaty  folks,  who  are  **  fond 
of  taking  possession  of  the  throne  of  domestic  comfort,*^ 
and  then,  with  all  the  impudence  imaginable,  simper  out  to 
the  ousted  master  of  the  family,  ^  Dear  me,  I  am  afraid  I 
have  taken  your  place !" 

Half  ike  tr&ubte  of  waiting  at  table  may  he  uxoid  by 
living  each  guest  two  plates,  two  knives  and  forks,  two 
pieces  of  bread,  a  ^)oon,  a  wine-glass,  and  a  tumbler,  and 
idacing  the  wines  and  sauces,  and  the  magazine  of  taste, 
(No.  463,)  &C.  as  a  dormoML,  in  the  centre  of  the  table;  one 
neighbour  may  then  help  another. 

Dinner-tables  are  seldom  sufficiently  lighted,  or  attended. 
An  active  waiter  will  have  enough  to  do  to  attend  iston 
half  a  dozen  active  eaters.  There  should  be  about  half  as 
many  candles  as  there  are  guests,  and  thehr  flame  be  about 


46  nnaanLY  ABmcMTo  cooEB. 

eighteen  inches  above  ^w  table.  Our  foolish  modem  pom« 
pons  candelabras  seem  mtended  to  illuminate  the  ceUing, 
rather  tlum  to  give  light  on  the  plates,  &c« 

Wax  lights  at  dinner  are  much  more  elegant,  and  not  so 
troublesome  and  so  uncertain  as  lamps,  npr  so  expensive ; 
for  to  purchase  a  handsome  lamp  will  cost  you  more  than 
will  furaish  you  with  was^  candles  for  several  years. 


FRIENDLY  ADVICE  TO  COOKS,* 

AND  OTHER 

SERVANTS 


On  your  first  coming  into  a  family,  lose  no  time  in  imme- 
diately getting  into  the  good  graces  of  your  fellow-servants, 
that  you  may  learn  from  them  the  customs  of  the  kitchen, 
and  the  various  rules  and  orders  of  the  house. 

Take  care  to  be  on  good  terms  with  the  servant  who  waits 
at  table ;  make  use  of  him  as  your  sentinel,  to  inform  you 
how  your  work  has  pleased  in  the  parlour :  by  his  report  you 
may  be  enabled  in  some  measure  to  rectify  any  mistsJke ; 
but  request  the  favour  of  an  early  interview  with  your  mas- 
ter or  mistress :  depend  as  little  as  possible  on  second-hand 
opinions.  Judge  of  your  employers  from  your  own  ob- 
servations, and  THEIR  behaviour  to  you,  not  from  any  idle 
reports  from  the  other  servants,  who,  if  your  master  or  mis- 
tress inadvertently  drop  a  word  in  your  praise,  will  immedi- 
ately take  alarm,  and  fearing  your  being  more  in  favour  than 
themselves,  wiU  seldom  stick  at  trifles  to  prevent  it,  by  p>re- 
tending  to  take  a  prodigious  liking  to  you,  and  poisoning 
your  mind  in  such  a  maimer  as  to  destroy  all  your  confi- 
dence, &c.  in  your  employers ;  and  if  they  do  not  immediately 
succeed  in  wonying  you  away,  will  take  care  you  have  no 
comfort  while  you  stay:  be  most  cautious  of  those  who  pro- 
fess most:  not  only  beware  of  believing  suchhoney-tongued 

*  A  cbapter  of  advice  to  cooks  wil],  we  bope,  be  found  as  useAil  as  it  is  original : 
aU  we  have  on  this  subject  in  the  works  of  our  predeoesson,  is  the  following ;  "  I 
shall  strongly  recommend  to  aH  cooks  of  either  sex,  to  keep  their  stomachs  ftee  from 
strong  liquors  till  af<«r  dinner,  and  theirnosesfrom  snuff."— FiVfe  Ci<brmont's  Pro- 
fessed Cookf  p.  30, 8vo.  London,  1776. 


mXXOLY  ADVICE  TO  OOOKf.  47 

folks,  but  bewaie  as  much  of  betrayii^f  your  sospicioiiB  of 
them,  for  that  will  set  fire  to  tiie  train  at  once,  and  of  a 
doubtftil  friend  make  a  determined  enemy. 

If  you  are  a  good  cook,  and  strictly  do  your  duty,  ycia  will 
soon  become  a  favourite  domestic ;  but  neyer  bmist  of  the 
approbation  of  yfour  emjdoyers ;  for,  in  proportion  as  they 
think  you  rise  in  their  estimation,  you  wiU  excite  all  the 
-tricks,  that  envy,  hatred,  mali<^,  and  all  uncharitableness 
can  suggest  to  your  fellow-servants ;  every  one  of  whom,  if 
less  sober,  honest,  or  industrious,  or  less  favoured  than  your- 
self, will  be  your  enemy. 

While  we  warn  you  against  making  others  your  enemies, 
take  care  that  you  do  not  yourself  become  your  own  and 
greatest  enemy.  "  Favourites  are  never  in  greater  danger 
of  falling,  than  when  in  the  greatest  favour,^  which  often 
begets  a  careless  inattention  to  the  commands  of  their  em- 
ployers, and  insolent  overbearance  to  their  equals,  a  gradual 
neglect  of  duty,  and  a  corresponding  forfeiture  of  that  regard 
wmch  can  only  be  preserved  by  the  means  which  creat^  it. 

"TboM  arts  by  wliidi  at  firat  ytm  nlo  it, 
Yoa  still  most  practise  to  nudnttiD  it*' 

If  your  employers  are  so  pleased  with  your  conduct  as  to 
treat  you  as  a  friend  rather  than  a  servant,  do  not  let  their 
kindness  excite  your  self-conceit,  so  as  to  make  you  for  a 
moment  forget  you  are  one.  Condescension,  even  to  a  pro- 
verb, produces  contempt  in  inconsiderate  minds ;  and  to  such, 
the  very  means  which  benevolence  takes  to  cherish  atten- 
tion to  duty,  becomes  the  cause  of  the  evil  it  is  intended  to 
prevent. 

To  be  an  agreeable  companion  in  the  kitchen^  without 
compromising  your  duty  to  your  patrons  in  ibe  parlour,  re- 
quires no  small  portion  of  good  sense  and  good  nature :  in  a 
word,  you  must  "  do  as  you  would  be  done  by.'* 

Act  for,  and  speak  of,  evert  body  as  if  they  were 

PRESENT. 

We  hope  the  culinary  student  who  peruses  these  pages 
will  be  above  adopting  the  common,  mean,  and  ever  unsuc- 
cessful way  of  "holding  virith  the  hare,  and  running  with 
the  hounds,"  of  currying  favour  with  fellow-servants  by 
flattering  them,  and  ridiculing  the  mistress  when  in  the 
kitchen,  and  then,  prancing  into  the  parlour  and  purring 
about  her,  and  making  o^rtunities  to  display  all  the  little 
faults  you  can  find  {or  invent)  that  will  tell  well  against 
those  in  the  kitchen ;  assuring  them,  on  your  return,  that  they 
were  vraUed,  for  whatever  you  heard  them  btamedj  and  so 


41  mmmhr  Asmcm  to  cooks. 

txeite  Ihem  to  nm  more  exUremely  into  any  little  enor  whick 
joa  think  wiU  be  most  displeasing  to  their  employen; 
watching  an  opportunity  to  pour  your  poisonous  lies  into 
tl»ir  unsuspecting  ears,  when  ^eie  is  no  third  person  to 
bear  witness  of  your  iniquity ;  making  TOiMr  ▼ictnns  believe, 
it  is  all  out  of  ^rour  nneen  regard  for  them;  assuring  them 
(as  Betty  says  in  the  man  of  the  w(»rld,)  **That  indeed  you 
are  no  busybody  tliat  loves  fending  nor  proving,  but  bftte  all 
tittling  and  tattling,  and  gossi]Hng  and  backbhrng,**  &c.  &c. 

Depend  upcm  it,  if  you  hear  yoiur  fellow-servants  speak 
disrespectfully  of  a  master  or  a  mistress  with  whom  they 
kave  Mved  scNne  time,  it  is  a  sure  sign  that  they  have  some 
smister  sel^me  against  yourself;  if  they  have  not  been  well 
treated,  why  have  they  sta3red1 

'*  There  is  nothing  more  detestsMe  than  defamation.  I 
have  no  scruple  to  rank  a  slanderer  with  a  murderer  or  an 
assassin.  Those  who  assault  the  reputation  of  their  bene- 
feetors,  and  '  rob  you  of  that  which  nought  enriches  them,* 
would  destroy  yonr  life,  if  they  could  do  it  with  equal  im- 
punity." 

**  If  you  hope  to  gam  the  respect  and  esteem  of  others, 
"fibd  the  approbation  of  your  own  heart,  be  respectful  and 
faithful  to  your  superiors,  obliging  and  good-natured  to  yomr 
fellow-servants,  and  charitable  to  all.**  You  cannot  be  too 
eareful  to  cultivate  a  meek  and  gentle  disposition ;  you  will 
find  the  benefit  of  it  every  day  of  your  life :  to  promote  peace 
and  harmony  around  you,  will  not  only  render  you  a  general 
fovourite  with  your  fellow-servants,  but  will  make  you  happy 
in  yourself.  ^ 

''  Let  your  character  be  remarkable  for  industry  and  mode- 
ration; your  tnanners  and  deportment,  for    modesty  and 
humility ;  your  dress  distinguished  for  simplicity,  frugality, 
and  neatness.    A  dressy  servant  is  a  disgrace  to  a  house, 
and  renders  her  employers  as  ridiculous  as  she  does  herself. 
If  you  outshine  your  companions  in  finery,  you  will  inevi- 
taluy  excite  their  eilvy,  and*  make  them  your  enemies.* 
<*  Do  every  thin^  at  the  proper  time." 
*'  Keep  every  thmg  in  its  proper  place." 
"  Use  every  thing  for  its  proper  purpose." 

Tlie  importance  of  tl^se  three  rules  must  be  evident,  to 

all  who  will  consider  how  much  easier  it  Is  to  return  any 

'  sthing  when  done  with  to  its  proper  place,  than  it  is  to  find  it 

when  mislaid ;  and  it  is  as  easy  to  put  things  in  one  place  as 

ia  another. 

Keep  your  kitchen  and  furniture  as  clean  and  neat  as  pos- 
sible, wnich  will  then  be  an  ornament  to  it,  a  comfort  to 


nOBMDLY  A0VICS  TO  COCMCfl  49 


your  f(dIow«48eTvaiit««  and  a  oiedit  to  younelf.  Moieorer^ 
good  housewifery  is  the  best  leecmunendatioo  to  a  good 
husband,  and  oigages  men  to  honourable  attachment  to 
you ;  she  who  is  a  tidy  servant  gives  promise  of  being  a 
cufefbi  wife* 

Giving  amay  FUtuaU, 

Giyivo  away  any  thing  without  consent  or  privity  of  your 
master  or  mistress,  is  a  liberty  you  must  not  take ;  (terity 
and  compassion  for  the  wants  of  our  fellow-crealnies  are 
very  amiable  virtues,  but  they  are  not  to  be  indulged  at  the 
esroense  of  your  own  hones^,  and  other  people^s  property. 

When  you  find  that  there  is  any  thing  to  spare,  ana  that 
it  is  in  danger  of  being  spoiled  by  being  kept  too  long,  it  is 
v^  commendable  in  you  to  ask  leave  to  dispose  of  it  while 
it  is  fit  for  Christians  to  eat :  if  such  permission  ia  refused, 
the  sin  does  not  lie  at  yom*  door.  But  ^ou  must  on  no  ac- 
count bestow  the  least  morsel  in  contradiction  to  the  will  of 
those  to  whom  it  belongs. 

**  Never  think  any  put  of  your  business  too  trifling  to  be 
well  done." - 

**  Eagerly  embrace  every  opportunity  of  learainff  any  thinr 
which  may  be  useful  to  yourself,  or  of  doing  any  thing  whicE 
may  benefit  others." 

Do  not  throw  yourself  out  of  a  good  place  for  a  slight 
affront.  ^  Come  when  you  are  called,  ana  do  what  you  aie 
bid."  Place  yourself  in  your  mistress's  situation,  and  con- 
sider what  you  would  expect  from  her,  if  she  were  in  yours ; 
and  serve,  reverence,  and  obey  her  accordingly. 

Although  there  may  be  "  more  places  than  parish-churchesi^ 
it  is  not  very  eBsy  to  find  many  more  good  ones. 
**  A  rolling  stone  never  flrathers  moss." 
"Honesty  is  the  best  poucy." 
"  A  still  tongue  makes  a  wise  head." 

Saucy  ansmen  are  highly  aggravating,  and  answer  no  good 
purpose. 

Let  jTOur  master  o^  mistress  scold  ever  so  much,  or  be 
ever  so  unreasonable;  as  "a  soft  answer  turneth  away 
wrath,"  "  so<will  silence  be  ihe  best  a  servant  can  make.'" 

One  rwk  answer^  extorted  perhaps  by  harsh  words,  or  un- 
merited censure,  has  cost  many  a  servant  the  loss  of  a  good 
place,  or  the  total  forfeiture  of  a  regard  which  had  been 
growing  for  years. 

"  If  your  employers  are  hasty,  and  have  scolded  withput 
reason,  bear  it  patiently ;  they  will  soon  see  their  error,  a^ 

E 


50  rRoamLY  arvics  to  cooks. 

* 

not  be.  happy  till  they  make  you  amends.  Muttering  on 
leavin^r  the  room,  or  siamnung  the  door  after  you,  is  as  bad 
as  an  impertinent  reply;  it  is,  in  fact,  showing  tiiat  you 
would  be  mipertinent  if  you  dared." 

'*  A  faithfid  servant  will  not  only  never  speak  disrespect- 
fully to  her  employers,  but  will  not  hear  disrespectful  words 
said  ^  them." 

Apply  direct  to  your  employers,  and  beg  of  them  to  explain 
to  you,  as  fully  as  possible,  how  they  like  their  victuals 
dressed,  whether  much  or  little  done.* 

Of  what  complexion  they  wish  the  roasts,  of  a  gold  colour, 
or  well  brovTned,  and  if  they  like  them  frothed  % 

Do  they  like  soups  and  saucbs  thick  or  thin,  or  white  or 
brown,  clean  or  full  in  the  mouth  1  What  accompaniments 
they  are  partial  to  ? 

What  flavours  they  fancy  ?  especially  of  spice  and  herbs  : 

"  Namque  coquus  domini  debet  habere  gulam." — Majitial. 

It  is  impossible  that  the  most  accomplished  cook  can  please 
their  palates,  till  she  has  learned  their  particular  taste :  this, 
it  will  hardly  be  expected,  she  can  hit  exactly  the  first  time ; 
however,  the  hints  we  have  here  given,  and  in  the  7th  and 
8th  chapters  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery,  will  very  much 
facilitate  the  ascertainment  of  this  main  chance  of  getting 
into  their  favour. 

Be  extremely  cautious  of  seasoning  high :  leave  it  to  the 
eaters  to  add  the  piquante  condiments,  according  to  their 
own  palate  and  fancy :  for  this  purpose,  '*  The  Magazine  op 
Taste,"  or  **  Sauce-Sox,^'*  (No.  462,)  will  be  found  an  invalua- 
ble acquisition;  its  contents  will  instantaneously  produce 
any  flavour  that  may  be  desired. 

"  De  gUBtibus  non  est  disputandura/* 

Tastes  are  as  different  as  faces;  and  without  a  most 
attentive  observation  of  the  directions  given  by  her  employ- 
ers, the  most  experienced  cook  will  never  be  esteemed  a  pro- 
found palatician.  , 

It  will  not  go  far  to  pacify  the  rage  of  a  ravenous  gmir- 
mtmd,  who  likes  his  chops  broiled  brown,  (and  done  enough, 
so  tha^t  they  can  appear  at  table  decently,  and  not  blush  when 
they  are  cut«)  to  be  told  that  some  of  the  customers  at  Dolly^s 
chop-house  choose  to  have  them  only  half-done,  and  that  this 
is  the  best  way  of  eating  them. 

*  Meat  Uial  to  not  to  be  cm  till  it  is  eoM,  mutt  be  thoroughly  done^  especially  in 


rWXBSnLY  APVXOB  TO  CMWKI.  &1 

.  We  all  think  that  is  the  best  wajr  which  we  leErii  best, 
and  which  ag^^ees  best  with  00  atomach:  in  thia,  reason 
and  fashiQn,  all-powerful  as  they  aie  on  most  occasions, 
yield  to  the  imperatiye  caprice  of  the  palate. 

Chacun  d  ion  go(d, 

'^TulKUHiiAirkm*  ir#fiM*«i^  tbe  Boor  lofww  ate  olTd  Afo*-ecf, 
t  Tlie  Wblobmam  be  lovw  iMfftftf  cAmic,  and  oHikM  hii  WMtth  ttto  a 


Our  Italian  neighbours  regale  themselves  with  maainNit 
andparmeian,  and  eat  some  things  which  we  call  oarrum.— 
Vide  Ray's  Travels,  p.  363  and  406. 

While  the  Ehglishman  boasts  of  his  rotut  beef^  plum  pmd- 
dim^  cmd  porter  J 

The  Frenchman  feeds  on  his  favourite  frog  and  vntpt^ 

l^e  Tartar  feasts  on  hone-fle^ 

The  Chinaman  on  dog's. 

The  GreenlaNder  preys  on  garbage  and  train  oU;  and 
each  ^  blesses  his  stars,  and  thioEs  it  luxury.^  What  at  one 
time  or  {dace  is  considered  as  beautiAil,  fragrant,  and  sa- 
voury, at  another  is  regarded  as  deformed  and  disgustful.* 

^  Ask  a  toad  what  is  beauty,  the  supremely  beautiful,  the 
TO  KAAON !  He  will  tell  you  it  is  my  wift^ — with  two  large 
eyes  projecting  out  of  her  little  head,  a  broad  and  flat  necK, 
yellow  belly,  and  dark  brown  back.  With  a  Guinea  ^^'egro, 
it  is  a  greasy  black  skin,  hollow  eyes,  and  a  flat  nose.  Put 
the  question  to  the  deoit,  and  he  will  tell  you  that  beautt  ib 
a  pair  of  horns,  four  claws,  and  a  tail.*' — ^Voltaire's  Phiios, 
Diet.  8vo.  p.  32. 

**' Asajhstida  was  called  by  the  ancients  'food  for  the 
GODS.'  The  Persians,  Indians,  and  other  Eastern  people, 
now  eat  it  in  sauces,  and  call  it  by  that  name :  the  Germans 
call  it  dtoiVs  dung.^ — Fide  Pomet  on  Drugs. 

Garlic  and  clove,  or  allspice,  combined  m  certain  propor- 
tions, produce  a  flavour  very  similar  to  asafcBtida. 

The  organ  of  taste  is  more  rarely  found  in  perfiection,  and 
is  sooner  spoiled  by  Uie  operations  of  time,  excessive  use, 
^    &c.  than  either  of  our  other  senses. 

There  are  as  various  degrees  of  sensibility  of  palate  as 

.  there  are  of  gradations  of  perfection  in  the  eyes  and  ears  of 

painters  and  musicians.    After  all  the  pains  which  the  editor 

has  taken  to  explain  the  harmony  of  subtle  relieves,  unless 

nature  has  given  the  organ  of  taste  in  a  due  degree,  this  book 

*  See  ehapter  zr. "  Ckofue  Ptif$t  cbaqtn  C^utxme.^'-Cntrs  GastronomifHe^  8vo. 
1809,  p.  102. 


6S  FRnnfDX.T  AsmcB  to  coagB, 

^•rfflf  idfts !  no  more  make  an  Osboiuik,*  than  it  can  a  Ret- 
froLDS^  or  an  Arnei  or  a  Shield. 

Where  nature  has  been  most  bountiful  of  this  faculty,  its 
sensibility  is  so  easily  bhmted  by  a  variety  of  anavoidaUe 
circumstances,  that  the  tongue  is  very  seldom  in  the  highest 
condition  for  appreciating  d^icate  flavours,  or  accurately 
estimating  the  relative  force  of  the  various  materials  the 
cook  emjSoys  in  the  composition  of  an  harmonious  relish. 
Cooks  express  this  refinement  of  combination  by  saying,  a 
well-finished  ragoUtt  "tastes  of  every  thing,  and  tastes  of 
nothing:"  (this  is  ** kitchen  e^berish^*  for  a  sauce  in  which 
the  component  parts  are  well  proportioned.) 

However  delicately  sensitive  nature  may  have  formed  the 
organs  of  taste,  it  is  only  during  those  few  happy  moments 
that  they  are  perfectly  awake,  and  in  perfect  good  humour, 
(alas !  how  very  seldom  they  are,)  that  the  most  accom- 
plished and  experienced  cook  has  a  chance  of  working  with 
any  degree  of  certainty  without  the  auxiliary  tests  of  the 
bsUance  and  the  measure :  by  the  help  oi  these,  when  you 
are  once  right,  it  is  your  own  fault  if  you  are  ever  otherwise. 

The  sense  of  taste  depends  much  on  the  health  of  the  indi- 
vidual, and  is  hardly  ever  for  a  single  hour  in  the  same  state : 
such  is  the  extremely  intimate  sympatl^y  between  the  sto- 
mach and  the  tongue,  that  in  proportion  as  the  former  is 
empty,  the  latter  is  acute  and  sensitive.  This  is  the  cause 
that  "  good  appetite  is  the  best  sauce,"  and  that  the  dish  we 
find  savomy  at  luncheon,  is  insipid  at  dinner^  and  at  supper 
quite  tasteless. 

To  taste  any  thing  in  perfection,  the  tongue  must  be 
moistened,  or  the  substance  applied  to  it  contain  moisture ; 
the  nervous  papillae  which  constitute  this  sense  are  roused 
to  still  more  lively  sensibility  by  salt,  sugar,  aroma- 
tics,  &c. 

If  the  palate  becomes  dull  by  repeated  tasting,  one  of  the 
best  ways  of  refreshing  it,  is  to  masticate  an  apple,  or  to 
wash  your  mouth  well  with  milk. 

The  incessant  exercise  of  tasting,  which  a  cook  is  obliged 
to  submit  to  durinff  the  education  of  her  tongue,  frequently 
impairs  the  very  faculty  she  is  trymg  to  improve.  "  'Tis 
true  tis  pity  and  i»ty  'tis,"  (says  a  grand  gourmand) 
•*  'tis  true,  her  too  anxious  perseverance  to  penetrate  the 
mysteries  of  palatics  may  cuminish  the  tact,  exhaust  the 
power,  and  destroy  the  index,  without  which  all  her  labour 
is  in  vain." 

*  rook  to  Sir  Josira  Banks,  Bart.,  late  presideDt  of  the  Royal  Soeipty. 


VKMSMiTt  A0VI0B  TO  OOOKMm  K 

'  Thetefore,  a  nigacacns  cook,  instead  of  idly  snd  wantonly' 
waatioff  the  excitability  of  her  palate,  on  the  senaibility  oil 
which  ner  reputation  and  foitone  depends,  when  she  nat 
ascertained  the  relatire  strength  of  the  flavour  of  the  varioof 
ii^redients  she  enq^tors,  will  call  in  the  balance  and  the 
measure  to  do  the  OTunary  business,  and  endeayoor  to  pre» 
serve  her  organ  of  taste  with  the  utmost  care,  that  it  may 
be  a  faithful  oracle  to  refer  to  on  grand  occasions,  and  new 
compositions.*  Of  these  an  ingenioin  cook  may  form  as 
endless  a  variety,  as  a  musician  with  his  seven  notes,  or  a 
painter  with  his  colours^  read  chapters  7  and  8  of  the  Rudi- 
ments of  Cookery. 

.  Receive  as  the  highest  testimonies  of  your  emptoyers* 
regard  whatever  observations  they  may  make  on  your  work; 
such  admcHutions  are  the  most  unequivoeai  vroofi  of  their 
desire  to  make  ^^ou  thoroughly  understand  tlieir  taste,  ai»i 
their  wish  to  retain  you  in  their  service,  or  they  would  not 
lake  the  trouble  to  teach  you. 

Enter  into  all  their  plans  ot  economy,!  and  endeavour  to 
make  the  most  of  eveiy  thing,  as  well  for  yotir  own  honour 
as  your  master's  profit,  and  you  will  find  that  whatever  care 
you  take  for  his  profit  wfll  be  fi>r  yomr  own :  tsike  care  that 
^  meat  which  is  to  make  its  appearance  aeain  in  the  parlour 
is  handsomely  cut  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  put  on  ^clean 
dish:  take  care  of  the  grofvy  (see  No.  336)  which  isiM'.  '^ 
wiU  save  many  pounds  of  meat  in  making  sauce  tP/tknAuit 
pmdtry^  and  many  little  dishes. 

Mant  things  mat  be  repressed  in  a  different  fonn 
from  that  in  which  they  were  first  served,  and  improve 
the  appearance  of  the  table  without  increasing  the  expense 
of  it. 

Cold  Fisd,  soles,  cod,  whitings,  smelts,  &c.  may  be 
cut  into  bits,  and  put  into  escallop  shells,  with  cold  oys- 
ter, lobster,  or  shrimp  sauce,  and  bread  crumbled,  and  put 
into  a  Dutch  oven,  and  browned  like  scalloped  oysters. 
(No.  182.) 

»  (*  The  divenities  of  taste  an  so  many  and  ao  emuMerable,  tiiat  it  seamelil 
Qtrange  to  see  the  matter  tieated  of  both  by  philoaophera  and  phyaioiaiia  with  lo 
much  BcantineiB  anddefbct:  or  tlie  8ub()ect  is  noiharrea,  Iwt  yieldetfa  raiieh  and 
pinnant  variety,  and  doth  also  appear  to  be  of  treat  importance."— From  Dr. 
6RBW*».^iMit.  •/  ncaOM^i  ftd.  1688,  p.  ^Bk  The  Dr.  emuierates  ilzteen  rfmale 
tastes :  liowever,  it  b  dlfllcalt  lo  -define  more  than  8ix.->]sl.  Biuer  as  wormwood. 
Sd.  SwMtassogar.  3d.  S»ur  as  vinegar.  4tb.  Soft  as  brine.  5tlL  CbM  as  ice.  (Rh. 
Bvt  as  brandy.  "  Camp&mtd  taaUa^  famumerable,  may  be  Ibrmed  by  the  conibinalioo 
of  these  simple  tastes--es  words  are  of  letlen."— 8ee  ate  PkiL  Trmu.  voL  sv. 
p.  1035. 

t  '*  I  am  permaded  that  no  servant  ever  saved  her  master  sixpence,  but  she  ftnilld 
it  in  the  end  in  her  pocket**-*TBi»LKR's  Donuttu  JlfoMVomanC,  p.  11. 

£3 


\ 


54  PUBNSLY  ADVICS  TO  600X8. 

The  best  way  to  warm  cold  meat  is  to  sprinkle  the  jCMiit 
over  with  a  little  salt,  and  put  it  in  a.  Dutch  oven,  at  some 
distance  before  a  gentle  fixe,  that  it  may  warm  gradually; 
watch  it  carefully,  and  keep  turning  it  till  it  is  quite  hot  and 
brown:  it  will  take  from  twenty  minutes  to  •three  quarters 
of  an  hour,  accordinff  to  its  thickness ;  serve  it  up  with 
gravy:  this  is  much  better  than  hashing  it,  and  by  doing 
it  nicely. a  cook  will  get  great  credit.  Poultry  (No. 
530*),  FRiEi>  FISH  (see  No.  145),  &c.  may  be  redressed  in 
this  way. 

Take  care  of  the  Uquor  you  have  boiled  poultry  or  meat 
in ;  in  five  minutes  you  may  make  it  into  excellent  soup. 
See  ob$.  to  Nos.  555  and  239,  No.  5,  and  the  7th  chapter  of  the 
Rudiments  of  Cookeiy. 

No  gfood  housewife  has  any  pretensions  to  rathnal  economy 
who  boils  animal  food  without  converting  the  broth  into  some 
sort  of  soup. 

However  highly  the  uninitiated  in  the  mystery  of  soup- 
making  may  elevate  the  external  appendage  of  his  olfactoiy 
organ  at  the  mention  of  '*  pot  li^uor,^'  if  he  tastes  No.  5, 
or  218,  555,  &c.  he  will  be  as  delighted  with  it  as  a  French- 
man is  with  **poUu;e  a  la  Camaranh"  of  which  it  is  said  ^  a 
single  spoonful  wilf  lap  the  palate  in  Elysium;  and  while  one 
drop  of  it  remains  on  the  tongue,  each  other  sense  is  eclipsed 
-.  iQJi'^oluptuous  tiirilling  of  the  lingual  nerves !  T 
.CdPinflKi^  OP  FRAOMEiTTS. — ^Whcn  you  dress  a  laree  dinner, 
you  may  make  good  broth,  or  portable  soup  (No.  252), 
at  very  small  cost,  by  taking  care  of  all  the  trimmings 
and  parinffs  of  the  meat,  g^ame,  and  poultry,  you  are  going  to 
use :  wasn  them  well,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  as 
muck.«old  water  as  will  cover  them ;  set  your  stewpan  on  a 
hot  firo ;  when  it  boils,  take  off  all  the  scum,  and  set  it  on 
again  to  simmer  gently ;  put  in  two  carrots,  two  turnips,  a 
large  onion,  three  blades  of  {)ounded  mace,  and  a  head  of 
celery;  some  mushroom  parings  will  be  a  great  addition. 
Let  it  continue  to  simmer  gently  four  or  five  hours ;  strain^  it 
tluough  a  sieve  into  a  clean  basin.  This  will  save  a  great 
deal  of  expense  in  buying  gravy^meat. 

Have  the  dust,  &c.  removed  regularly  once  in  a  fortnight, 
and  have  your  kitchen  chimney  swept  once  a  month;  many 

good  dinners  have  been  spoiled,  and  many  houses  burned 
own,  by  the  soot  falling :  the  best  security  against  this,  is 
for  the  cook  to  have  a  long  biroh-broom,  and  every  morning 
brush  down  all  the  soot  within  reach  of  it.  Give  notice  to 
your  employers  when  the  contents  of  your  coal-cellar  are 
diminished  to  a  chaldron. 


nilSHBLT  ABfTLCE  VO  000X8.  66 

It  vnH  be  to  litCle  purpose  to  procure  good  pronsiomi, 
unless  you  have  proper  utensfls*  to  prepare  them  in:  the 
most  expert  artist  cannot  perform  his  work  in  a  perfect 
maimer  without  proper  instrmnents ;  yon  cannot  hare  neat 
work  without  mce  tools,  nor  can  you  dress  victuals  well 
without  an  apparatus  appropriate  to  the  work  required.  See 
ist  pae;e  of  chapter  7  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery. 

In  ttiose  houses  where  Uie  cook  enjoys  the  confidence  of 
her  employer  so  nrach  as  to  be  intrusted  with  the  care  of  the 
store-room,  which  is  not  very  common,  she  will  keep  an 
exact  account  of  eyery  thing  as  it  comes  in,  and  insist  upon 
Uie  weight  and  price  being  fixed  to  every  article  she  pur- 
chases, and  occasionally  wOl  (and  it  may  not  be  amiss  to 
jocosely  drop  a  hint  to  those  who  supply  them  that  she  does) 
reweigh  them,  for  her  own  satisfaction,  as  well  as  that 
of  her  employer,  and  will  not  trust  the  key  of  this  room 
to  any  one ;  she  will  also  keep  an  account  of  every  thing 
she  takes  from  it,  and  manage  with  as  much  consideration 
and  frugality  as  if  it  was  her  own  property  she  was  using, 
endeavouring  to  disprove  the  ada^^e,  tnat  "  plenty  makes 
'watU^  and  remembering  that  ^wil^  waste  makes  woful 
want.*' 

Hie  honesty  of  a  cook  must  be  .above. all  suspicion:  she 
must  obtain,  and  (in  spite  of  the  numberless  temptations, 
&;c.  that  daily  offer  to  bend  her  from  it)  preserve  a  charac- 
ter of  spotless  integrity  and  useful  industry,!  remembering 
that  it  is  the  fair  price  of  iifDEPBNDBNCE,  which  all  wish  for, 
but  none  without  it  can  hope  for;  only  a  fool  or  a  madman 
will  be  so  silly  or  so  crazy  as  to  expect  to  rei^  where  he  has 
^  been  too  idle  to  sow. 

Very  few  modem-jbuilt  town-houses  have  a  proper  place 

*  (*  Asaiveoa  may  u  well  attempt  to  make  an  Ineiskm  wtth  a  pair  of  etiean,  or 
open  a  vein  witta  an  oyster-knile^  as  a  cook  prMend  to  drew  a  dbiner  withoot  proper 
toola.«— VBaE4U.*B  Cookery,  6va  1799,  p.  6. 

t  Many  ooou  mte  exeeilent  opportimilies  of  making  themaalves  lodeMndeM, 
by  tlieir  idleneai^  in  reftninf  any  place,  bowever  profitable,  Isc  if  tbere  is  not  a 
UCeA«»«Mul  kept  to  wait  upon  them.  ^  .... 

Toeie  ara  many  InvaUda  who  require  a  good  eook,  and  ae  (after  readint  thto  book 
fbey  win  underatand  bow  mncb)  their  comfort  and  eflbctlve  eidalence  dependa  oa 
tbdr  food  being  property  prepared,  will  wUUngly  pay  lumdeome  wegei,  (wim  would 
not  ratber  pay  tbe  cook  tban  tbe  doctor  1)  but  bave  so  little  work  in  the  kitchen  that 
one  penon  may  do  it  all  with  tbe  utmoet  ease,  without  Iqluiy  to  her  health ;  which 
la  not  tbe  case  in  a  laife  family,  where  the  poor  cook  i>  rooicing  and  etevnnf  aU 
day,  and  is  often  deprived  of  her  rest  at  night,  ^o  artlsia  have  greater  need  to 
^makohaifiwkiiU  tko  aun  «Jktiief,"  and  timdy  provide  for  the  Inihmitiei  of  agdL 
VVqo  win  hire  a  eoperannuated  servant  1  If  she  has  saved  nothing  to  support  her- 
sdf,  she  most  crawl  to  the  workhouse. 

It  is  Bsdancholy  to  find,  that,  aeoording  to  the  authority  of  a  eeriafai  great  French 
author,  **  cooks,  half  stewed  and  half  roasted,  when  unable  to  work  any  knwr, 
aeaerally  retire  to  some  unknown  corner,  and  die  in  forlomness  and  want."*- 
BiJkCKW00»'s  Edin.  Mog.  vol.  vIL  p.  668. 


£6  FSaMKDhT  ADVSCE  TO  COOKS. 

to  pieserve  pionsions  in*  The  best  mibstttate  is  a  SAHOtia 
stiiFE,  wliioh  3rott  may  contrive  to  suspend  in  an  aiiy  ntnar 
lion;  and  when  you  order  meat,  poultry,  or  fii^  tell  the 
tradesman  when  you  intend  to  dress  it :  he  will  &en  have  it 
in  his  power  to  serve  you  with  provision  thai  will  do  him 
credit,  which  the  finest  meat,  &e.  in  the  woild  will  never 
do,  unless  it  has  been  kept  a  proper  time  to  be  ripe  and 
tender. 

If  you  have  a  well-ventilated  larder  in  a  shady,  diy  situa* 
lion,  you  may  make  still  surer,  by  ordering  in  yeur  meat  and 
poultry  such  a  time  before  you  want  it  as  will  render  it 
loider,  which  iJie  finest  meat  cannot  be,  unless  faunff  a  proper 
time  (see  9d  ch8q[>ter  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery),  accord- 
ing to  the  season,  and  nature  of  the  meat,  &c. ;  but  always, 
as  ^ 2ef  6oiif  hommes de hovche de France"  say,  tiHitis ^a$9€Z 

Permitting  this  process  to  proceed  to  a  certain  degree 
renders  meat  much  more  easy  oi  solution  in  the  stomach, 
and  for  those  whose  dieestive  faculties  are  delicate,  it  is  of 
the  utmost  importance  Uiat  it  be  attended  to  with  the  greatest 
nicety,  for  ihe  most  consummate  skill  in  the  euUnary  pre* 
paration  of  it  will  not  compensate  for  the  want  of  attention 
to  this.  (Read  o6«.  to  No.  68.)  Meat  that  is  ihoroujgldyi 
rocuted^  or  ooUedf  eats  much  shorter  and  tenderer,  and  is  in 
proportion  more  digestible,  than  that  which  is  i0uier*done. 

You  will  be  enamed  to  manage  much  better  if  your  em- 
ployers will  make  out  a  bill  of  fare  for  the  week  on  the 
Saturday  before :  for  example,  for  a  family  of  half  a  dozen--- 

Bwtdaif. .. .  Roast  beef  (No.  19),  and  my  padding  (No.  554). 
Monday. . .  Fowl  (Nos.  16. 58),  what  was  left  of  my  pudding  fried,  and  warmed 
iB  tbe  Dmeb  oven. 
TWtdoy. ..  CalTs  liead.(Na  10),  appto-nle. 
fFMbMsdof  Leg  of  mutton  (No.  1),  or  (No.  93). 
TkMTsdtm .  Do.  broiled  or  baabed  (No.  487),  or  (No.  484,)  paaeakHk 
Fridaf. ...  Fish  (No.  145),  pudding  (No.  551). 
Satmri^jf..  Flab,  or  egga  and  bacon  (No.  545).  « 

It  is  an  excellent  plan  to  have  certain  things  on  certain 
days.  "When  your  butcher  or  poulterer  knows  what  you 
will  want,  he  has  a  better  chance  of  doing  his  best  for  you ; 
and  never  think  of  ordering  beef  for  roasting  except  for 
Sunday. 

When  the  weather  or  season*  is  very  unfavourable  for 

*  «*Tb«  seaaoD  of  dM  year  baa  oonslderablo  influenee  on  tbe  qpialitjr  of  bntctaow 
wmt;  depeudlng  upon  tbe  more  or  lesa  pleatlAil  aunttly  of  food^  upon  tbe  pariodkal 
^wofe  wnlcb  takea  plaee  in  tlie  bodsr  of  the  anindtal,  and  upon  temperature.  Tfae 
ieab  of  moat  Aili-growa  quadrupeds  u  in  taigbest  aeaaon  duriiw  tbe  Snt  raontba  of 
winter,  altar  b&vmg  eojojied  tbe  advantage  of  tb»  ahimdaBce  oTfteab  aunuiMf  fli«& 


r  - 


noxnnLir  aovics  to  cooii.  57 


keepitt|[  meat,  Ue*  give  him  the  choice  of  sendiiig  that  which 
is  in  tl^  best  order  for  dressing ;  t.  «•  either  ribs  or  sirioifi  of 
beef^  or  leg,  loin,  ot  neck  of  mutton,  &e. 

Meat  in  which  you  can  detect  the  slightest  trace  of  pa- 
trescency,  has  reached  its  highest  degree  of  tenderness,  and 
should  lie  diessed  without  delay;  but  before  this  period, 
which  in  some  kinds  of  meat  is  offensive,  the  due  degree  of 
inteneration  may  be  ascertained,  by  its  jrieldinff  reiulily  to 
the  pressure  of  the  finger,  and  by  its  oi^sing  little  resist* 
a&ce  to  an  attempt  to  &d  the  joint. 

Although  we  strongly  recommend  that  animal  food  should 
be  hung  up  in  the  open  air,  till  its  fibres  have  lost  some  de- 
gree of  their  toughness ;  yet,  let  us  be  clearly  understood 
also  to  warn  vou,  that  if  kept  till  it  loses  its  natural  sweet- 
ness, it  is  as  detrimental  to  health,  as  it  is  disagreeable  to 
the  smell  and  taste. 

hr  VERY  COLD  WEATHER,  bring  ^our  meat,  poultry,  &c. 
into  the  kitchen,  early  in  the  mommg,  if  you  roast,  boil,  or 
stew  it  ever  so  gently  and  ever  so  long;  if  it  bejr&zeih  it 
will  continue  tough  and  unehewable. 

Without  very  watchful  attention  to  this,  the  most  skilful 
cook  in  the  world  will  get  no  credit,  be  she  ever  so  careful 
in  tl»  management  of  her  spit  or  her  stewpan. 

The  time  meat  should  haag  to  be  tender,  depends  on  the 
heat  and  humidity  of  the  air.  If  it  is  not  kept  long  enough, 
it  is  hard  and  tough;  if  too  long,  it  loses  its  flavour.  It 
should  be  hung  where  it  will  have  a  thorough  air,  and  be 
dried  with  a  cloth,  night  and  morning,  to  keep  it  from  damp 
and  mustiness. 

Before  you  dress  it,  wash  it  well ;  if  it  is  roasting  beef,  pare 
off'  the  ouUide. 

If  you  fear  meat,*  &c.  will  not  keep  till  the  time  it  is 
wanted,  |iar»roast  or  par-boil  it ;  it  wiU  then  keep  a  couple  of 
days  longer,  when  it  may  be  dressed  in  the  usual  way,  only 
it  will  be  done  in  rather  less  time. 

Its  flavour  then  begins  to  be  injured  by  the  turnips,  Ice.  given  as  whiter  food;  and 
in  spritig,  it  gets  lean  from  deficiency  of  food.  Although  beef  and  mutton  are  never 
absolulelyout  of  season,  or  not  fit  for  the  taUe,  they  are  best  in  November,  Decem- 
ber, and  January.  Pork  is  absolutely  bad,  except  during  the  winiat."~~Su^UwuiU 
to  the  EtUn.  Eney.  Brit  p.  328. 

*  "  Larders,  pantriks,  and  sapbs  must  be  sheltered  fiom  the  sao,  and  other- 
wise removed  fhna  the  heat ;  be  dry,  and,  if  possible,  have  acunrent  of  dry,  cool  air 
continually  passing  through  them. 

•'  The  fteesing  temperature,  i.  e.  93  degrea  1/  F^renkeit^  is  a  perfect  preservative 
from  putrefbction:  warm,  moist,  muggy  weather  is  the  worst  for  keeping  meat 
The  south  wind  is  especially  onfiivottrable,  and  lightning  is  quickly  destmctivei 
but  ^  greatest  enemy  you  have  to  encounter  is  the  Sesh-^,  which  becomes  trou- 
Uesome  about  the  month  of  May,  and  cootinttesaotill  towards  llichaeiiBBS.''-»Fei: 
fUnher  Obt*  on  ibis  subject  aee^Tke  Mzpaienced  Bvtdter^'*  page  160. 


&S  FBIBNX>I.r  XDVtCM  TO  C00X8. 

^  In  Germany,  the  method  of  keeping  flesh  in  summer  is 
to  steep  it  in  Rhenish  wine  with  a  little  Jsea-salt;  by  which 
means  it  may  be  preserved  a.whole  season." — ^Boerhaave's 
Academical  Lectures,  translated  by  J.  Nathan,  8vo«  1763, 
p.  241. 

The  cook  and  the  butcher  as  often  lose  their  credit  by 
meat  being  dressed  too  fresh^  as  the  fishmonger  does  by  fish 
that  has  been  kept  too  long. 

Dr.  Franklin  in  his  philosophical  experiments  tells  us,  that 
if  game  or  poultry  be  killed  by  electricity  it  will  become 
tender  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye,  and  if  it  be  dressed  im* 
mediately,  will  be  delicately  tender. 

During  the  sultry  summer  months,  it  is  almost  impossible 
to  procure  meat  that  is  not  either  tough,  or  tainted.  The 
former  is  as  improper  as  the  latter  for  the  unbraced  stomachs 
of  relaxed  valetudinarians,  for  whom,  at  this  season,  poultry, 
stews,  &c.,  and  vegetable  soups,  are  the  most  suitable  food, 
when  the  digestive  organs  are  debilitated  by  the  extreme 
heat,  and  profuse  perspiration  requires  an  increase  of  liquid 
to  restore  equilibrium  in  the  constitution. 

I  have  taken  much  more  pains  than  any  of  my  prede- 
cessors, to  teach  the  young  cook  how  to  perform,  in  the  best 
manner,  the  common  business  of  her  profession.  Being  well 
grounded  in  the  rudiments  of  cookery,  she  will  be  able  to 
execute  the  orders  that  are  given  her,  with  ease  to  herself, 
and  satisfaction  to  her  employers,  and  send  up  a  delicious 
dinner,  with  half  the  usual  expense  and  trouble. 

I  have  endeavoured  to  lessen  the  labour  of  those  who  wish 
to  be  thoroughly  acquainted  with  their  profession ;  and  an 
attentive  perusal  of  the  following  pages  will  save  them  much 
of  the  irksome  drudgery  attending  an  apprenticeship  at  the 
stove :  an  ordeal  so  severe,  that  lew  pass  it  without  irrepa-. 
rable  injury  to  their  health  ;*  and  many  lose  their  lives  before 
they  learn  their  business. 

To  encourage  the  best  performance  of  the  machinery  of 
mastication,  the  cook  must  take  care  that  her  dinner  is,  not 
only  well  cooked,  but  that  each  dish  be  sent  to  table  with 
its  proper  accompaniments,  in  the  neatest  and  most  elegant 
manner. 

Remember,  to  excite  the  good  opinion  of  the  eye  is  the 
first  step  towards  awakening  the  appetite. 

*  "  Buy  it  with  healtb,  strengtii,  and  resolution, 
And  pay  for  it,  a  robust  constitution." 
<  Preface  to  the  Cook* a  Cookery^  17S8. 

See  the  preface  to  "  The  Cook's  Cookery^''*  p.  9.  This  work:,  which  is  verv  sc&rce. 
was,  we  Itelieve,  written  to  deveio|)e  the  mistakes  in  what  he  calls  "The  "nicMiaand 
KrrorKf"  i.  e. "  The  Lady's  Cookery  »  i.  c.  Mrs.  Glnsse's,  I.  e.  Sir  John  mil*s. 


FBIBin>LT  ADVICB   TO  O0OX8.  50 

Decoration  is  much  more  rationally  em^oyad  in  render- 
ing a  wholesome,  nutritious  dish  inritrng^y  than  in  the  elabo> 
rate  embellishments  which  are  crowded  about  trifles  and 
custards. 

Endeavour  to  avoid  oi^er-dressing  roasts  and  boils«  Slc. 
and  oiTer-seasoning  soups  and  sauces  with  salt,  pej^r,  &c. ; 
it  is  a  fault  which  cannot  be  mended. 

If  your  roasts,  &c.  are  a  little  wiier-done,  with  the  as- 
isistance  of  the  stewpan,  the  gridiron,  or  the  Dutch  oven, 
you  may  soon  rectify  the  mistake  made  with  the  spit  or  the  pot. 

If  over-done,  the  best  juices  of  the  meat  are  evaporated ; 
it  will  serve  merely  to  distend  the  stomach,  and  if  the 
sensation  of  hunger  be  removed,  it  is  at  the  price  of  an 
indijgestion. 

The  chief  business  of  cookery  is  to  render  food  easy  of 
digestion,  and  to  facilitate  nutrition.  This  is  roost  com- 
pletely accomplished  by  plain  cookery  in  perfection;  i.  e. 
neither  over  nor  undergone. 

With  all  your  care,  you  will  not  get  much  credit  by 
cooking  to  perfection,  if  more  than  one  didi  goa  to  iMe  at 
a  time. 

To  be  eaten  in  perfection,  the  interval  between  meat  being 
taken  out  of  the  stewpan  and  its  being  put  into  the  mouth, 
must  be  as  short  as  possible ;  but  ceremony,  that  most  for- 
midable enemy  to  good  cheer,  too  often  decrees  it  other- 
wise, and  the  guests  seldom  get  a  bit  of  an  ^  erUrtmeti^  till 
it  is  half  cold.    (See  No.  485.) 

So  much  time  is  often  lost  in  placing  every  thing  in  apple- 
pie  order,  that  long  before  dinner  is  announced,  all  becomes 
lukewarm ;  and  to  complete  the  mortification  of  the  grand 
gourmand^  his  meat  is  put  on  a  sheet  of  ice  in  ihe  shape  of 
a  plate,  which  instantly  converts  the  gravy  into  jelly,  and 
the  fat  into  a  something  which  puzzles  ms  teeth  and  the  roof 
of  his  mouth  as  much  as  if  he  had  birdlime  to  masticate. 
A  complete  tMot-sereen  will  answer  the  purpose  of  a  ^ 
closetj  pUUe-wanMrt  &c. — See  Index. 

It  will  save  you  infinite  trouble  and  anxiety,  if  you  can 
prevail  on  your  employers  to  use  the  **  sauce-box,"  No.  463, 
hereinafter  described  in  the  chapter  of  Sauces.  With  the 
help  of  this  **  magazine  of  taste,"  every  one  in  company 
may  flavour  their  soup  and  sauce,  and  adjust  the  vibrations 
of  their  palate,  exactly  to  their  own  fancy;  but  if  the  cook 
give  a  decidedly  predominant  Bndpiquante  goCtt  to  a  dish,,  to 
tickle  the  tongues  of  two  or  three  visiters,  whose  taste  she 
knows,  she  may  thereby  make  the  dinner  disgusting  to  all 
the  other  guests. 


\ 


60  TRjmmLY  AsmcE  to  ewms. 

Never  undertake  more  work  than  you  are  quite  certain 
you  eah  do  well.  If  you  are  ordered  to  prepare  a  larger  din- 
ner than  you  tiiink  you  can  send  up  with  ease  and  neatness, 
or  to  dress  any  dish  that  you  are  not  acquainted  with,  radier 
than  run  any  risk  in  spoiling  any  thing  (by  one  fault  you 
may  perhaps  lose  all  your  credit),  request  your  employers 
to  let  you  have  some  help.  They  may  acqmt  you  for  plead- 
ing giulty  of  inability ;  but  if  you  make  zh  attempt,  and  fail, 
wul  vote  it  a  capital  offence. 

If  your  mistress  professes  to  understand  cookery,  your 
best  way  will  be  to  follow  her  directions.  If  you  wish  to 
please  her,  let  her  have  the  praise  of  all  that  is  right,  and 
cheerfully  bear  the  blame  of  any  thing  that  is  wrong ;  only 
advise  that  all  new  dishes  may  be  first  tried  when  the  family 
dine  alone.  When  there  is  company,  never  attempt  to  dress 
any  thing  which  you  have  not  ascertained  that  you  can  do 
perfectly  well. 

Do  not  trust  any  part  of  your  work  to  others  without  care- 
fuDy  overlooking  them :  whatever  faults  they  commit,  you 
will  be  censured  for.  If  you  have  forgotten  any  article  which 
is  indispensable  for  the  day's  dinner,  request  your  employers 
to  send  one  of  the  other  servants  for  it.  The  cook  must 
never  quit  her  post  tHl  her  work  is  entirely  finished. 

It  requires  the  utmost  skill  and  contrivance  to  have  all 
things  done  as  they  should  be,  and  all  done  together,  at  that 
critical  moment  when  the  dinner-bell  •  sounds  **  to  the  ban- 
quet." 


'*  A  feast  must  be  withont  a  fault ; 
And  if 't  ia  not  all  right,  *t  is  naught.*' 


But 


"  Good  nature  will  some  failings  overlook, 
Forgive  mlsKhance,  not  errors  of  the  cook : 
As,  if  no  salt  is  thrown  about  the  dish. 
Or  nice  crispM  parsley  scatterM  on  the  fish, 
Shall  we  in  passion  from  our  dinner  fly, 
And  hopes  of  pardon  to  the  cook  deny, 
For  things  which  Mrs.  Glassb  herself  might  oversee, 
And  all  mankind  commit  as  Well  as  she  V^ 

Vide  King's  JSrt  of  Cookery, 

Such  is  the  endless  variety  of  culinary  preparations,  that  it 
would  be  as  vain  and  fruitless  a  search  as  that  for  the  philo- 
sopher's stone,  to  expect  to  find  a  cook  who  is  quite  perfect 
in  aU  the  opNerations  of  the  spit,  the  stewpan,  and  the  rolling- 
pin:  you  wiU  as  soon  find  a  watchmaker  who  can  make, 
put  together,  and  regulate  every  part  of  a  watch. 

*'The  universe  cannot  produce  a  cook  who  knoWs  how  to 


VBISIIDLV  iJMrKS  TO  CCOXJk  61 


do  every  brandi  of  cookery  well,  be  Me  genius  as  great  ae 
pofl8ible."«-Vide  die  CookU  Chokertfj  8vo.  page  40. 

The  ME8T  RULE  rOR  aCARKBTINO  is  tO  pajf  READY  MOVET 

for  every  itmgy  and  to  deal  with  the  most  respectable  trades- 
m^i  in  your  neighbourhood. 

If  you  leave  it  to  their  inte^ty  to  supply  you  with  a  good 
article,  at  the  fair  market  pnce,  you  wul  be  supplied  with 
better  provisions,  and  at  as  reasonable  a  rate  as  those  bar- 
gain-hunters, who  trot  "around,  around,  around  about**  a 
market,  till  they  are  trapped  to  buy  some  vncheTvabU  old 
poultry,  tough  tup-mutton,  stringy  cow  beef,  or  stale  fish,  at 
a  very  little  less  than  the  price  of  prime  and  proper  food. 
With  savings  like  these  they  toddle  home  in  triumph,  cackling 
all  the  way,  like  a  goose  that  has  got  ankle-deep  into  good 
luck. 

All  the  skill  of  the  most  accomplished  cook  will  avail 
nothing,  unless  she  is  furnished  with  prdie  provisiojts. 
The  best  way  to  procure  these  is  to  deal  with  shops  of  esta- 
blished character:  you  may  appear  to  pay,  perhaps,  ten  per 
fxnt.  more  than  you  would,  were  you  to  deal  with  those  who 
pretend  to  sell  cheap,  but  you  would  be  much  more  than  in 
that  proportion  better  siBrved. 

Every  trade  has  its  tricks  and  deceptions :  those  who  fol- 
low them  can  deceive  you  if  they  please ;  and  they  are  too 
apt  to  do  so,  if  you  provoke  the  exercise  of  their  over-reach- 
ing talent.* 

Challenge  them  to  a  game  at  ^  Catch  who  can,^  by  entirely 
relying  on  your  own  jiragment ;  and  you  will  soon  find  that 
nodiing  but  very  lon^  experience  can  make  you  equal  to 
^e  combat  of  marketm?  to  the  utmost  advantage. 

Before  you  go  to  market,  look  over  your  lar£r,  and  con- 
sider well  what  things  are  wanting,  especisdly  on  a  Satur- 
day. No  well-regulated  family  can  suffer  a  disorderly  ca- 
terer to  be  jumping  in  and  out  to  the  chandler's  shop  on  a 
Sunday  morning. 

Give  your  directions  to  your  assistants,  and  begin  vour 
business  early  in  tiie  morning,  or  it  will  be  impossible  to 
have  the  dimier  ready  at  the  time  it  is  ordered.. 

*  "  He  who  wUI  not  be  cheated  a  KtUe^  must  be  content  to  be  ftbiMid  a  great 
deal :  the  first  leaacm  in  the  art  of  eamforUMe  eeotiamff  Is  to  lean  to  submit  ciieer* 
fUUy  to  be  imposed  upon  in  due  proportion  to  your  situation  and  eirettiosiances:  if 
you  do  not,  you  will  continuaBy  be  in  hot  water. 

"  If  yon  thinic  a  tradesman  has  imposed  upon  you,  nevet  use  a  second  word,  if 
the  first  will  not  do,  nor  drop  the  least  hint  of  an  imposition.  The  onty  method  to. 
Induce  him  to  mai»  an  abatement  is  the  hope  of  future  fkvours.  Pay  the  demand, 
and  deal  with  tlie  gentlonan  no  more:  but  do  not  let  him  see  that  you  are  dis- 
pleased, or,  as  soon  as  you  are  out  of  sidit,  your  zeputati<m  ^iU  iuftr  asBUCh  M. 
your  pockiet  has.'*— Tkvslu'i  ffaiff  to  U  Am*,  Svo.  ms,  p.  85. 

P 


62  VkIM!!rDLl[  ADVICE  TO  COOXS. 

To  be  half  an  hour  after  the  time  is  such'  a  frequent  fault, 
that  there  is  the  more  merit  in  being  ready  at  the  appointed 
hour.  This  is  a  difficult  task,  and  in  the  best-regulated 
family  you  can  only  be  sure  of  your  time  by  proper  arrange* 
ments. 

With  all  our  love  of  punctuality,  we  must  not  forget  that 
the  first  consideration  must  still  be,  that  the  dinner  *'  be  well 
done  when 't  is  done." 

If  any  accident  occurs  to  any  part  of  the  dinner,  or  if  you 
are  likely  to  be  prevented  sending  the  soup,  &c.  to  the  table 
at  the  moment  it  is  expected,  send  up  a  message  to  your 
employers,  stating  the  circumstance,  and  bespeak  their  pa- 
tience for  as  many  minutes  as  you  Uiink  it  will  take  to  be 
ready.  This  is  better  than  either  keeping  the  company  wait- 
ing without  an  apology,  or  dishing  your  dinner  before  it  is 
done  enough,  or  sending  any  thing  to  table  which  is  disgust- 
ing to  the  stomachs  of  the  guests  at  the  first  appearance  of  it. 

Those  who  desire  regularity  in  the /service  of  their  table, 
should  have  a  DIAL,  of  about  twelve  inches  diameter,  placed 
over  the  kitchen  fireplace,  carefully  regulated  to  keep. time 
exactly  with  the  clock  in  the  hall  or  dining-parlour ;  with  a 
frame  on  one  side,  containing  a  taste  table  of  the  pecu- 
liarities of  the  master's  palate,  and  the  particular  rules  and 
orders  of  his  kitchen ;  and,  on  the  other  side,  of  the  rewards 
given  to  those  who  attend  to  them,  and  for  long  and  faithful 
service. 

In  smaU  families,  where  a  dinner  is  seldom  given,  a  great 
deal  of  preparation  is  required,  and  the  precemng  day  must 
be  devoted  to  the  business  of  the  kitchen. 

On  these  occasions  a  char-woman  is  often  employed  to  do 
the  dirty  work.  Ignorant  persons  often  hinder  you  more 
than  they  help  you.  We  advise  a  cook  to  be  hired  to  assist 
to  dress  the  dinner :  this  would  be  very  little  more  expense, 
and  the  work  got  through  with  much  ^  more  comfort  in  the 
kitchen  and  credit  to  the  parlour. 

When  you  have  a  veiy  large  entertainment  to  prepare,  get 
your  soups  and  sauces,  forcemeats,  &c.  ready  the  day  before, 
and  read  the  7th  chapter  of  our  Rudiments  of  Cookery,  Many 
made  dishes  inay  also  be  prepared  the  day  before  they  are 
to  go  to  table ;  but  do  not  dress  them  qtiite  enough  the  first 
day,  that  they  may  not  be  orcr-done  by  warming  up  again. 

Prepare  every  thing  you  can  the  day  before  the  dinner, 

and  order  every  thing  else  to  be  sent  in  early  in  the  morning ;. 

if  the  tradesmen  forget  it,  it  will  allow  you  time  to  send  for  iti. 

The  pastry,  jellies,  &c.  you  may  prepare  while  the  broths 

are  doing:  then  truss  your  game  and  poultry,  and  shape 


•    I 

Tnassovt  juimcm  to  coomb.  63 

youT  collops,  cutlets,  4c.,  and  trim  them  neatly;  cut  away 
all  flaps  and  gristles,  kc.  Nothing  AaM.  appear  on  table 
but  what  has  indisputable  pretensions  to  be  ealen ! 

Put  your  made  dishes  in  plates,  and  ananfe  them  upon 
the  dresser  in  regfular  order.  Next,  see  that  your  roasts  and 
boils  are  all  nicely  trimmed,  trussed,  &c.  and  quite  ready 
for  the  spit  or  the  pot. 

Have  your  vegetables  neatly  cut,  pared,  picked,  and  clean 
washed  m  the  colander :  provide  a  tin  dish,  with  partitions,  I 

to  hold  your  fine  heibs :  onions  and  shallots,  parsley,  thyme,  > 

tarragon,  chervil,  and  bumet,  minced  'oery.^ne;  and  lemon- 
peel  grated,  or  cut  thin,  and  chopped  very  small :  pepper  and 
salt  ready  mixed,  and  your  spice-box  and  salt-ceUar  alwajrs 
ready  for  action :  that  every  thing  you  may  want  may  be  at 
hand  for  your  stove-work,  and  not  be  scampering  about  the 
kitchen  in  a  whirlpool  of  confusion,  hunting  after  Siese  trifles 
while  the  diimer  is  waiting. 

In  one  drawer  under  your  spice-box  keep  ready  ground,  in 
well-stopped  bottles,  the  several  spices  separate ;  and  also 
that  n  ixture  of  them  which  is  called  ^ra^^p<mdtr*^  (No. 
457  or  No.  460):  in  another,  keep  your  dned  and  powdered 
sweet,  savoury,  and  soup  herbs,  ^.  and  a  set  of  weights 
and  scales :  you  may  have  a  third  drawer,  containing  fla- 
vouring essences,  &c.  an  invaluable  auxiliary  in  finishing 
soups  and  sauces.    (See  the  account  of  the  '*  haoaziite  of 

TASTE,"  or  "  SAUCE-BOX,"  No.  463.) 

Have  also  ready  some  thickening,  made  of  the  best 
white  flour  sifted,  mixed  with  soft  water  with  a  wooden 
spoon  till  it  is  the  consistence  of  thick  batter,  a  bottle  of 
plain  BROWNING  (No.  323),  some  strained  lemon-juice,  and 
some  good  glaze,  or  portable  soup  (No.  353). 

*^  Nothing  can  be  done  in  perfection  which  must  be  done 
in  a  hurry:"*  therefore,  if  you  wish  the  dinner  to  be 
sent  up  to  please  your  master  and  mistress,  and  do  credit 
to  yourself,  be  punctual;  take  care  that  as  soon  as  the 
clo&  strikes^  the  dinner-bell  rinfs:  this  shows  the  establish- 
ment to  be  orderly,  is  extremefy  gratifying  to  the  master  and 
his  guests,  and  is  most  praiseworthy  in  the  attendants. 

But  remember,  you  cannot  obtain  this  desirable  reputation 
without  good  management  in  every  respect.  If  you  wish  to 
ensure  ease  and  independence  in  the  latter  part  of  your  life, 
you  must  not  be  unwilling  to  pay  the  price  for  wmch  oidy 
they  can  be  obtained,  and  earn  them  by  a  diligent  and 

•  Saya  ToM  Tamrir,  **  except  eatchmf  o/JUae:^  See  T.  T.*8  £<# «y  en  tkrijf 
Hiting.     ' 


64  VSIBUD&T  ABfVKM  TO  COOBJ. 

faithful*  perfonnaiice  of  the  duties  of  your  slation  in  your 
young  days,  whicli,  if  you  steadily  persevere  in,  you  may 
depend  upon  ultimately  receiying  the  reward  your  services 
deserve. 

All  duties  are  reciprocal:  and  if  you  hope  to  receive 
favour,  endeavour  to  deserve  it  by  showing  yourself  fond  of 
obliging,  and  gratefiQ  when  obhged;  such  behaviour  will 
win  regard,  and  maintain  it:  emorce  what  is  right,  and 
excuse  what  is  wrong. 

Quiet,  steady  perseverance  is  the  only  spring  which  you 
can  safely  depend  upon  for  infallibly  promoting  your  progress 
on  the  road  to  independence. 

If  your  employers  do  not  immediately  appear  to  be 
sensible  of  your  endeavours  to  contribute  your  utmost  to 
their  comfort  and  interest,  be  not  easily  discouraged.' 
Persevere,  and  do  all  in  your  power  to  hake  vourself 

USEFUL. 

Endeavour  to  promote  the  comfort  of  eveiy  individual  in 
the  family ;  let  it  be  manifest  that  you  are  desirous  to  do 
rather  more  than  is  required  of  you,  than  less  than  your  duty : 
they  merit  little  who  perform  merely  what  would  be  ex- 
acted. If  you  are  desired  to  help  in  any  business  which 
may  not  strictly  belong  to  your  department,  undertake  it 
cheerfully,  patiently,  and  conscientiously. 

The  foregoing  advice  has  been  written  with  an  honest 
desire  to  augment  the  comfort  of  those  in  the  kitchen,  who 
will  soon  find  that  the  ever-cheering  reflection  of  having 
done  their  duty  to  the  utmost  of  their  ability,  is  in  itself, 
with  a  Christian  spirit,  a  never-failing  source  of  comfort  in 
all  circumstances  and  situations,  and  that 

"  VIRTUE  IS  ITS  OWN  REWARD." 

*  N.B.  "  If  you  win  take  half  Uie  pains  to  deserve  the  regard  of  your  master  and 
mistress  toy  being  c  good  €md  faithful  servaitt^  you  take  to  he  considered  a  good 
fellow'sorvanty  so  ntftny  of  you  would  not,  in  tlie  decline  of  life,  be  left  destitate  of 
those  comforts  wtiich  age  requires,  nor  have  occasion  to  quote  the  saytag  that, 
*  Service  is  no  inlieritance,*  unless  your  own  misconduct  makes  it  so. 

**  The  idea  of  being  called  a  teU-tale  has  occasioned  many  good  servants  to  shut 
their  eyes  against  the  frauds  of  fellow-servants.. 

*'  In  the  eye  of  the  law,  persons  standing  by  and  seeing  a  felony  committed, 
which  they  could  liave  prevented,  are  held  equally  guilty  with  those  committing  i(." 
—Dr.  T&usLXR's  Domestic  Managtment^  P^l^  &nd  InatrtCUions  to  Servants. 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


To  redtiee  our  cnlinary  operations  to  as  exact  a  certainty 
as  the  nature  of  the  processes  would  admit  of,  we  have, 
wherever  it  was  needful,  pren  the  quantities  of  each  article. 

The  weights  are  tcvoiraupou. 

The  measure,  the  graduated  glass  of  the  apothecaries* 
This  appeared  ihe  most  accurate  and  convenient;  ffce  grint 
hein^  divided  into  sixteen  ounces,  the  oimee  into  eisht  dracmns. 
A  middling-sixed  teo-ipoon  will  contain  ahout  a  £rachm;  lour 
such  tea-spoons  are  eqiud  to  a  middling*sized  tabU-^poon, 
or  half  an  ounce;  four  table-spoons  to  a  coounooHBized 

The  specific  gravities  of  the  various  suhstances  being  m> 
extremely  different,  we  cannot  offer  any  auxilianr  standaras* 
for  the  weights,  wlach  we  earnestly  recommend  tiie  code  to 
employ,  if  she  wishes  to  gain  credit  for  accuracy  and  uni- 
fbrmi^  in  her  business :  Aese  she  will  find  it  necewaijr  to 
have  as  onall  as  the  quarter  of  a  drachm  avoirdiqwis,  whidi 
is  eaual  to  nearly  seven  grains  troy. 

Glass  measures  (divided  into  tea  and  table-spoons)9  con- 
taining from  half  an  ounce  to  half  a  pint,  may  be  procured; 
also,  uie  double-headed  pepper  and  spice  boxes»  with  caps 
over  ihe  gratings.  The  superiority  ot  these,  by  preserving 
the  contents  from  the  action  of  the  air,  must  be  sufficiently 
obvious  to  every  one :  the  fine  aromatic  flavour  of  pej^r  is 
soon  lost,  from  ^e  bottles  it  is  usually  kept  in  notbein^  well 
stopped.  Peppers  are  seldom  ground  or  pounded  sufficiently 
fine.    (See  N.B.  to  369.) 

N.B.  The  trough  nutmeg-graters  are  by  far  the  best 
we  have  seen,  especially  for  those  who  wish  to  grate  flne» 
andf^t. 

*  Atarietalite-Bpoonfiilof  floor  weiflitaboQt  half  an  ounce. 

F2 


RUDIMENTS  OP  COOKERY.  ^^ 


CHAPTER  I. 

BOILING.* 


This  most  simple  of  culinary  processes  is  not  often  per- 
formed in  perfection.  It  does  not  require  quite  so  much 
nicety  and  attendance  as  roasting ;  to  skim  your  pot  well, 
and  Keep  it  really  boiling  (the  slower  the  better)  all  the 
while,  to  know  how  long  is  required  for  doing  the  joint,  &c., 
and  to  take  it  up  at  the  critical  moment  when  it  is  done 
enough,  comprehends  almost  the  whole  art  and  mystery. 
This,  however,  demands  a  patient  and  perpetual  vi^ance, 
of  which  few  persons  are  capable. 

The  cook  must  take  especial  care  that  the  water  really 
boils  all  the  while  she  is  cooking,  or  she  will  be  deceived  in 
^e  time ;  and  make  up  a  sufficient  fire  (a  frugal  cook  will 
manage  with  much  less  fire  for  boiling  than  she  uses  for 
roastin|:)  at  firet,  to  last  all  the  time,  without  much  mending 
or  stimng. 

When  the  pot  is  coining  to  a  boil  there  will  always,  from 

*  "  The  proeets  by  whleh  food  is  moetcommonly  prepared  for  the  table,  boiumo, 
fa  ao  familiar  to  every  one,  and  its  efitetB  are  to  unifonn,  and  apparently  ao  simplei 
tliat  few,  I  believa,  have  taken  the  trouble  to  inquire  how  or  in  vhat  manner  tboee 
eflbcta  are  produced ;  and  whether  any,  and  what  improvements  in  that  branch  of 
GOokMry  are  possiMe.  So  little  has  thu  matter  been  an  object  of  inquiry,  that  few, 
vary  few  indeed,  I  believe,  among  tjke  miUiong  of  persons  who  for  ao  many  ages 
have  been  daUy  enqrioyed  in  this  process,  have  ever  given  themsdves  the  trouble  to 
bestow  one  snious  thought  on  the  subject. 

"  SotHng  cannot  be  carried  on  williout  a  very  great  expense  of  fuel ;  but  any 
boiling-hot  liquid  (by  uring  proper  means  for  confining  the  heat)  may  be  kept 
bnling-hot  for  any  leneth  of  tfmf  almost  without  any  expense  of  fuel  at  all. 

**  ne  vaste  of  fuel  In  culinary  ^iroceeses,  which  arises  from  making  liquids  boil 
uwueessarilyy  or  when  nothing  more  would  be  necessary  than  to  ke^  thedi 
beiling-hoty  is  enormous ;  I  have  not  a  doubt  but  that  much  more  than  half  the  f^el 
used  in  ail  the  kitchens,  public  and  private,  in  the  whole  world,  is  wasted  precisely 
in  this  manner. 

"But  the  evil  does  not  stop  here.  This  unscientific  und  stovenly  manner  of 
cooking  renders  the  process  much  more  laborious  and  troublesome  than  otherwise 
it  would  be ;  and,  (what  by  many  will  be  considered  of  more  importance  than 
either  the  waste  of  fuel  or  the  increase  of  labour  to  the  cook)  the  food  is  rendered 
less  savoury,  and  very  probably  less  nourishing  and  less  wbolesorae. 

**  It  is  natural  to  suppose  that  many  of  tlie  finer  and  more  volatile  parts  of  food 
(dwee  which  are  best  calculated  til  act  on  the  oifans  of  taste),  mtist  be  carrieA 
off  with  the  steam  when  the  boiling  is  vioIent."^Cnmt  RuMroRO*8  IQtb  Essay, 
pp.  3. 6. 


Booms.  67 

the  deanesi  meat  and  cleaiest  water,  rise  a  icum  to  the  top 
of  it,  proceeding  partly  from  the  water;  this  rnuBt  be  care- 
fully taken  off  ae  soon  as  it  lises. 

(hi  this  depends  the  good  ajqpearanoe  of  all  bcnled  things. 

When  you  have  skimmed  well,  put  in  some  cold  water, 
which  will  throw  up  the  rest  of  the  scum. 

The  oftener  it  is  skimmed,  and  the  cleaner  the  top 
of  the  water  is  kept,  the  sweeter  and  the  cleaner  will  be 
the  meat 

If  let  alone,  it  soon  boils  down  and  sticks  to  the  meat,* 
which,  instead  of  looking  delicately  white  and  nice,  wUl 
have  that  coarse  and  filthv  appearance  we  have  too  often  to 
ccmiplain  of,  and  the  butcher  and  poulterer  be  blamed  for  the 
carelessness  of  the  cook  in  not  skimming  her  pot. 

Many  put  in  f?ii2lb,  to  make  what  they  boil  look  white ;  but 
this  does  more  harm  than  good:  others  wrap  it  up  in  a 
cloth ;  but  these  are  needless  precautions :  if  the  scum  be 
attentively  removed,  meat  will  have  a  mndi  more  delicate 
colour  and  finer  flavour  than  it  has  when  muffled  up.  This 
may  ^ve  rather  more  trouble,  but  those  who  wish  to  excel 
in  tneir  art  must  only  consider  how  the  processes  of  it  can 
be  most  perfectly  performed :  a  cook,  who  has  a  proper  pride 
and  pleasure  in  her  business,  will  make  this  her  maxim  on 
all  occasions. 

It  is  desirable  that  meat  for  boiling  be  of  an  equal  thick- 
ness, or  before  thicker  parts  are  done  enough  the  thinner  will 
be  done  too  much. 

Put  your  meat  into  cold\  water,  in  the  proportion  of  about 
a  ^uart  of  water  to  a  pound  of  meat :  it  should  be  covered 
with  water  during  the  whole  of  the  process  of  boiling,  but 
not  drowned  in  it ;  the  less  water,  provided  the  meat  be 
covered  with  it,  the  more  savoiuy  will  be  the  meat,  and  the 
better  will  be  the  broth. 

The  water  should  be  heated  gradually,  according  to  the 
thickness,  &c.  of  the  article  boiled.  For  instance,  a  leg  of 
miitton  of  10  pounds  weight  (No.  1,)  should  be  placed  over 
a  moderate  fire,  which  will  gradually  make  the  water  hot, 
without  causing  it  to  boil  for  about  forty  minutes;  if  the 
water  boils  much  sooner,  the  meat  will  be  hardened,  and 
eAirink  up  as  if  it  was  scorched :  by  keeping  the  water  a  cer- 
tain time  heating  without  boiling,  the  nores  of  the  meat  are 

•  If,  unfiMtanat^,  this  should  happen,  the  cook  mmt  caieflilly  take  it  off  when 
iihe  diahes  up,  either  with  a  clean  sponge  or  a  paste-brush. 

t  Cooks,  however,  as  weO  as  doctors,  disagree ;  for  some  sar,  that  "  an  sorts  of 
ftesh  meat  should  be  put  in  when  the  water  boHs."  I  prefer  the  above  method  for 
the  reason  given ;  geotie  stewlnf  renders  meat,  Ice.  tender,  and  still  leaves  it  sapid 
and  nutiitive. 


68  j»lidDfa; 

dilated,  and  it  jrields  a  qaantity  of  scum,  whick  must  te  taken 
off  as  soon  as  it  hsea. 

**  104.  If  a  vessel  containing^  water  be  placed  over  a  steady 
ftte,  the  water  will  grow  continually  hotter  tiU  it  readies  the 
limit  of  boiling,  after  which  the  regular  accessions  of  heat 
are  wholly  spent  in  converting  it  into  steam. 

^  Water  remains  at  the  same  pitch  of  temperature,  how- 
ever fiercely  it  boils*  The  only  diference  is,  that  vrith  a 
strong  fire  it  sooner  comes  to  boil,  and  more  quickly  boils 
away,  and  is  converted  into  steam.** — Buchanan  on  the  Eco- 
nonw  of  Fudj  1810. 

The  editor  placed  a  thermometer  in  water  in  that  state 
which  co(^s  call  genUe  simmering;  the  heat  was  2120,  L  e. 
the  same  degree  as  the  strongest  boiling. 

Two  mutton  chops  were  covered  with  cold  water,  and  one 
boiled  a  gallop,  and  the  other  simmered  very  gently  for  three 
quarters  of  an  hour :  the  chop  which  was  slowly  simmered 
was  decidedly  superior  to  that  which  was  boiled;  it  was 
much  tenderer,  more  juicy,  and  much  higher  flavoured.  The 
liquor  which  boiled  fast  was  in  like  proportion  more  savoury, 
and  when  cold  had  much  more  fat  on  its  surface.  This  ex- 
plains why  quick  boiling  renders  meat  hard,  &;c.,  because  its 
juices  are  extracted  in  a  greater  degree. 

Reckon  the  time  from  its  first  coming  to  a  boil. 

The  old  nde  of  15  minutes  to  a  pound  of  meat,  we  think 
raiher  too  little :  the  slower  it  boils,  the  tenderer,  the  plumper, 
and  whiter  it  will  be. 

For  those  who  choose  their  food  thoroughly  cooked  (which 
all  will  who  have  any  regard  for  their  stomachs),  twenty 
minutes  to  a  pound  for  fresh,  and  rather  more  for  salted 
meat,  will  not  be  found  too  much  for  gentle  sinunering  by 
the  side  of  the  fire,  allowing  more  or  less  time,  according 
to  the  thickness  of  the  joint,  and  the  coldness  of  the  weather: 
to  know  the  state  of  which,  let  a  thermometer  be  placed  in 
the  pantry;  and  when  it  falls  below  '40^,  tell  your  cook  to 
give  rather  more  time  in  both  roasting  and  boiling,  always 
remembering,  tiie  slower  it  boils  the  better. 

Without  some  practice  it  is  difficult  to  teach  any  art ;  and 
cooks  seem  to  suppose  they  must  be  right,  if  they  put  meat 
into  a  pot,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  for  a  certain  time,  making 
no  allowance  whether  it  simmers  without  a  tmbble  or  boili 
a  gallop. 

Fresh-killed  meat  win  take  mudi  lonser  time  boiling  than 
that  which  has  been  kept  till  it  is  what  the  butchers  cafi  ripty 
and  longer  in  cold  than  in  TXfarm  weather:  if  it  be  frozen^  it 
must  be  thawed  before  boiling  as  before  roasting;  if  it  be 


imiMaSIMi,  it  wiQbe  toug^  aadha»l»  if  youtrtew  it«¥er  ■• 
long,  and  ever  so  ^ntly.  In  cold  weather,  the  nij^t  befoie 
the  day  ^rou  dress  i^  bring  it  into  a  place  of  which  the  tem- 
.peralvre  ib  not  less  than  46  degrees  of  Fahrenheit's  theimo- 
meter. 

The  size  of  the  boiling-pots  should  be  adapted  to  what 
they  are  to  contain :  the  larger  the  saucepan  the  more  room 
it  takes  upon  the  fire,  and  a  hurger  quanti^  of  water  requires 
a  proportionate  increase  of  fire  to  boil  it. 

AUttltpot 
IsBoonliot. 

In  small  families  we  recommend  block  tin  saucepans,  Ac. 
as  lightest  and  safest.  If  proper  care  is  taken  of  tnem,  and 
they  are  well  dj^ed  after  they  are  cleaned,  they  are  by  far 
the  cheapest;  the  purchase  of  a  new  tin  saucepan  being 
little  more  than  the  expense  of  tinning  a  copper  one. 

Let  the  covers  of  your  boiling-pots  fit  close,  not  only  to 
prevent  unnecessary  evaporation  of  the  water,  but  to  prevent 
the  escape  of  the  nutritive  matter,  which  must  then  remain 
either  in  the  meat  or  in  the  broth;  and  the  smoke  is  pre- 
vented from  insinuating  itself  under  the  edge  of  the  lid,  and 
so  giving  the  meat  ab^  taste.  See  observations  on  Sauce- 
pans, in  chapter  7. 

L  If  you  let  meat  or  poultry  remain  in  the  water  after  it  is 
done  enough,  it  will  become  sodden,  and  lose  its  flavour. 

Beef  and  mutton  a  little  under'done  (especially  very  laige 
joints,  which  will  make  the  better  hash  or  broil,)  is  not  a 
great  fault ;  by  some  people  it  is  preferred :  but  lamb,  pork, 
and  veal  are  uneatable  if  not  thoroughly  boiled;  but  do  not 
over-do  them. 

A  trivet  or  fish-draioer  put  on  the  bottom  of  the  boiling- 
pot,  raising  the  contents  about  an  inch  and  a  half  from  the 
bottom,  w3l  prevent  that  side  of  the  meat  which  comes  next 
the  bottom  from  being  done  too  much,  and  the  lower  part 
of  the  meat  will  be  as  delicately  done  as  the  other  part ;  and 
this  will  enable  you  to  take  out  the  contents  of  the  pot,  wiA- 
out  sticking  a  fork,  &c.  into  it.  If  you  have  not  a  trivet, 
use  four  skewers,  or  a  soup-plate  laid  the  wrong  side  upwards. 

Take  care  of  the  liquor  you  have  boiled  poultry  or  ment 
in ;  in  five  minutes  you  may  make  it  into  excellent  soup. 
(See  obs.  to  No.  555  and  No.  339.) 

The  good  housewife  never  boils  a  joint  without  converting 
the  broth  into  some  sort  of  soup  (read  No.  5,  and  chapter  7). 
If  the  liquor  be  too  salt,  oidy  use  half  the  quantity,  and  the 


70  BOIUNG. 

rest  water.    Wash  salted  meat  well  with  cold  water  hefore 
you  put  it  into  the  boiler. 

»4»  ettinuUion  of  the  loss  of  weight  which  takes  place  in 
cooking  ammaljood. — From  Mr.  Tilloch's  Philosophical 
Magazine. 

**  It  is  well  known,  that  in  whatevir  way  the  flesh  of  ani- 
mals is  prepared  for  food,  a  considerable  dimiimtion  takes 
place  in  its  weight.  We  do  not  recollect,  however,  to  have 
any  where  seen  a  statement  of  the  loss  which  meat  sustains 
in  the  yarious  culinary  processes,  although  it  is  pretty  ob- 
vious that  a  series  of  experiments  on  the  subject  would  not 
be  without  their  use  in  domestic  econom]^. 

**  We  shall  here  give  the  result  of  a  series  of  experiments 
which  were  actually  made  on  this  subject  in  a  pubhc  esta- 
blishment ;  premising  that,  as  they  were  not  undertaken  from 
mere  curiosity,  but,  on  the  contrary,  to  serve  a  purpose  of 
practical  utili^,  absolute  accuracy  was  not  attended  to. 
Considering,  however,  the  large  quantities  of  provisions 
which  were  actually  examined,  it  is  presumed  that  the  results 
may  be  safely  depended  upon  for  any  practical  purpose.  It 
would,  no  doubt,  have  been  desirable  to  have  known  not  only 
the  whole  diminution  of  weight,  but  also  the  parts  which 
were  separated  from  the  meat  m  the  form  of  aqueous  Vapour, 
jeUy,  fat,  &c. ;  but  the  determination  of  these  did  not  fall 
within  the  scope  of  the  inquiry. 

Ibt.    cz, 

28  pieces  of  beef,  weighing    .    .    280    0 
Lost  in  boiling 73  14 

"Hence,  the  weight  lost  by  beef  in  boiling  was  in  this 
case  about  26ilbs.  in  lOOlbs. 

lb».    ox. 

19  pieces  of  beef,  weighing    .    .    190    0 
Lost  in  roasting 61    2 

"  The  weight  lost  by  beef  in  roasting  appears  to  be  32 
per  cent^ 

9  pieces  of  beef,  weighing   .    .    .  x90    0 
Lost  in  baking 27    0 

"  Weight  lost  by  beef  in  baking  30  per  cent. 


r 


i 


h 


t, 


F 


BOIXlNfl.  71 

37  le^  of  mutton,  weigiiing^  .    .    360    0 
Lost  in  boiling,  and  by  navuig  the 
shank-bone  taken  off  ...    .      62    4 

''  The  shank-bones  were  estimated  at  4  ounces  eaeh;  there- 
fore  the  loss  by  boiling  was  55lbs.  8oz. 

"  The  loss  of  weight  in  legs  of  mutton  in  boiling  is  91} 
per  cent. 

35  shoulders  of  mutton,  weighing  .  350    6 
Lost  in  roasting 109  10 

'*  The  loss  of  weight  in  shoulders  of  mutton  by  roasting, 
is  about  31i  per  cent. 

16  loins  of  mutton,  weighing    .  • .  141    0 
Lost  in  roasting 49  14 

"Hence,  loins  of  mutton  lose  by  roasting  about  36} 
per  cent. 

10  necks  of  mutton,  weighing     .    100    0 
Lost  in  roasting 32    6 

**  The  loss  in  necks  of  mutton  by  roastmg  is  about  32} 
per  cent. 

"  We  shall  only  draw  two  practical  inferences  from  the 
foregoing  statement. — 1st,  In  respect  of  economy,  it  is  more 
profitable  to  boil  meat  than  to  roast  it.  2dly,  Whether  we 
roast  or  boil  meat,  it  loses  by  being  cooked  from  one-fifth  to 
one-third  of  its  whole  weight." 

The  loss  of  roasting  arises  from  the  melting  out  of  the  fat, 
and  evaporating  the  water;  but  the  nutritious  matters  remain 
condensed  in  the  cooked  solid. 

In  boiling,  the  loss  arises  partly  from  the  fat  melted  out, 
but  chiefly  from  gelatine  and  osmazome  being  extracted  and 
dissolved  by  t^e  water  in  which  the  meat  is  boiled ;  there  is, 
therefore,  a  real  loss  of  nourishment,  unless  the  broth 
be  used;  when  this  mode  of  cooking  becomes  the  most 
economical.* 

*  The  diminution  of  weicht  by  boUinc  and  roasting  ii  not  all  lost,  the  vat  skim- 
MiMos  an4the  drippinss,  nkely  clarified,  will  well  supply  the  place  of  lard  and  for 
frying.   See  No.  83,  and  the  receipt  for  chsap  aour  (No.  329). 


These  aie  to  bfs  eent  up  in  boats,  and  neier  poured  over 
the  meaty  &c. 

GreTyforboUsdmett (No.  387.) 

Puriev  and  butter (No.fKl.) 

CtaervU (No.  964.) 

Caper (No.  274.) 

Oyiler (No.  S78.) 

liver  and  paiBley (No.  987.) 

Celery. (No.9») 

Oaton (N0.89&&C.) 

Sbanot (No.  S0&.) 

Wow  wow (No.  3S8.) 

Cuny (No.  34a) 

BAKOTG. 

The  following  observations  were  written  expressly  for 
this  work  by  Mr.  Turner,  English  and  French  bread  and 
biscuit  baker. 

^*  Baking  is  one  of  the  cheapest  and  most  convenient 
ways  of  dressing  a  dinner  in  small  families ;  and,  I  may 
say,  that  the  oven  is  often  the  only  kitchen  a  poor  man 
has,  if  he  wishes  to  ei\joy  a  joint  of  meat  at  home  with  his 
family.  ' 

**  I  donH  mean  to  deny  the  superior  excellence  of  roast- 
ing to  baking ;  but  some  joints,  when  baked,  so  nearly  | 
approach  to  the  same  when  roasted,  that  I  have  known  them 
to  be  carried  to  the  table,  and  eaten  as  such  with  great  satis- 
faction* 

**  Legs  and  loins  of  pork,  less  of  mutton,  fillets  of  veal, 
and  many  other  joints,  will  bake  to  great  advantage,  if  the 
meat  be  good ;  I  mean  well-fed,  rather  inclined  to  be  fat :  if 
the  meat  be  poor,  no  baker  can  give  satisfaction. 

^*  When  baking  a  poor  joint  of  meat,  before  it  has  been 
half  baked  I  have  seen  it  start  from  the  bone,  and  shrivel  up 
scarcely  to  be  believed. 

**  Besides  those  joints  above  mentioned,  I  shall  enu- 
merate a  few  baked  dishes  which  I  can  particularly  re- 
commend. 

*^A  pig,  when  sent  to  the  baker  prepared  for  baMngi 
(^ould  have  its  ears  and  tail  covered  with  buttered  paper 
properly  fastened  on,  and  a  bit  of  butter  tied  up  in  a  piece  of 
linen  to  baste  the  back  with,  otherwise  it  will  be  apt  to 
blister:  with  a  proper  share  of  attention  from  the  baker,  I 
« oRsider  this  way  equal  to  a  roasted  one. 


*'  A  goose  prepared  1^  same  as  for  roastingt  taking  care 
to  have  it  on  a  stand,  and  when  half  done  to  torn  the  other 
side  upwards.    A  duck  fte  same. 

**  A  buttock  of  beef  the  following  way  is  particularly  fine. 
After  it  has  been  in  salt  about  a  week,  to  be  well  washed* 
and  put  into  a  brown  earthen  pan  with  a  pint  of  water; 
coyer  the  pan  tight  with  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  cap 
or  foolscap  paper :  never  cover  any  thing  that  is  to  be  baked 
with  brown  paper,  the  pitch  and  tar  that  is  in  brown  paper 
will  give  the  meat  a  smoky,  bad  taste :  give  it  four  or  five 
hours  in  a  moderately  heated  oven. 

''A  ham  (if  not  too  old)  put  in  soak  for  an  hour*  taken  out 
and  wiped,  a  crust  made  sufficient  to  cover  it  all  over,  and 
baked  in  a  moderately  heated  oven,  cuts,  fuller  of  gravy,  and 
of  a  finer  flavour,  than  a  boiled  one.  I  have  been  in  the  habit 
of  baking  small  cod-fish,  haddock,  and  mackerel,  with  a  dust 
of  flour,  and  some  bits  of  butter  put  on  them ;  eels,  when 
large  and  stuifed;  herrings  and  sprats,  in  a  brown  pan,  with 
vinegar  and  a  little  spice,  and- tied  over  with  paper.  A  hare, 
prepared  the  same  as  for  roasting,  with  a  few  pieces  of 
butter,  and  a  little  drop  of  milk  put  into  the  dish,  and 
basted  several  times,  will  be  found  nearly  equal  to  roasting; 
or  cut  it  up,  season  it  properly,  put  it  into  a  jar  or  pan,  and 
cover  it  over  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  three 
hours.  In  the  same  manner,  I  have  been  in  the  habit  of 
baking  legs  and  shins  of  beef,  ox  cheeks,  &;c.  prepared 
with  a  seasoning  of  onions,  turnips,  &;c. :  they  will  take 
about  four  hours :  let  them  stand  till  cold,  to  skim  off  the 
fat;  then  warm  it  up  all  together,  or  part,  as  you  may 
want  it. 

^  All  these  I  have  been  in  the  habit  of  baking  for  the  first 
families. 

''The  time  each  of  the  above  articles  should  take  depends 
much  upon  the  sta:te  of  the  oven,  and  I  do  consider  the  baker 
a  sufficient  judge ;  if  they  are  sent  to  him  in  time,  he  must 
be  very  neglectful  if  they  are  not  ready  at  the  time  they  are 
ordered." 

For  receipts  for  making  bread,  French  rolls,  muffins, 
crumpets,  Sally  Lunn,  &c.,  see  the  Appendix, 


^ 


G 


74  BOJkffanG. 


CHAPTER  n. 

RQASTIlfG. 

Ik  all  studies,  it  is  the  best  practice  to  begin  with  th0 
plaonest  and  easiest  parts ;  and  so  on,  by  degrees,  to  such  as 
are  more  dijEllcult :  we,  therefore,  treated  of  plain  boiling, 
and  we  now  proceed  to  roasting :  we  shall  then  gradually 
unravel  to  our  culinary  students  the  art  (and  mystery,  untO 
developed  in  this  work)  of  making,  with  the  least  trouble 
and  expense,  the  most  highly  finished  soups,  sauces,  and 
made-dishes. 

Let  the  young  cook  never  forget  that  cleanliness  is  the 
diief  cardmal  virtue  of  the  kitchen ;  the  first  preparation  for 
roasting  is  to  take  care  that  the  sjMt  be  properly  cleaned  with 
sand  and  water;  nothing  else.  When  it  has  been  weH 
scoured  with  this,  dry  it  with  a  clean  cloth.  If  spits  are 
wiped  clean  as  soon  as  the  meat  is  drawn  from  them,  and 
while  they  are  hot,  a  very  little  cleaning  will  be  required. 
The  less  the  spit  is  passed  through  the  meat  the  better  ;* 
and,  before  you  ^pit  it,  joint  it  properly,  especially  necks  and 
loins,  that  Ae  carver  may  separate  them  easily  and  neatly, 
and  take  especial  care  it  be  evenly  balanced  on  the  spit,  that 
its  motion  may  be  regular,  and  the  fire  operate  equally  on 
each  part  of  it;  therefore,  be  provided  with  balancing- 
skewers  and  cookholds,  and  see  it  is  properly  jointed. 

Roasting  should  be  done  by  the  radiant  heat  of  a  clear, 
glowing  fire,  otherwise  it  is  in  fact  baked:  the  machines  the 
economical  grate-makers  caU  roasters,  are,  in  plain  Eng- 
lish, ovens. 

Count  Rumford  was  certainly  an  exact  economist  of  fuel, 
when  he  contrived  these  things ;  and  those  philosophers  who 
try  8dl  questions  **  according  to  Cocker**  may  vote  for  baked 
victuals ;  but  the  rational  epicure,  who  has  been  accustomed 
to  enjoy  beef  well  roasted,  will  soon  be  convinced  that  the 

*  Small  Ikmtlies  have  apt  always  the  oonveoiencc  of  roasting  with  a  spit ;  a 
remark  upon  roastino  bt  a  string  is  necessary.  Let  the  cook,  brfore  she  pats 
her  meat  down  to  the  fire,  pass  a  strong  skewer  through  ««eA  end  of  the  joint :  by 
this  means,  when  It  is  about  half-done,  she  can  with  ease  turn  the  bottom  upwards ; 
the  gravy  will  then  flow  to  the  part  wliich  has  been  uppermost,  and  the  whole  joint 
be  deliciously  gravyf ul. 

A  BOTTLB  JACK,  Bs  it  is  termed  by  the  Airnishing  irondnongen,  is  a  valuable  instrii- 
mentfor  roasting. 

A  Dutch  ovim  is  anotbof  very  convenient  utensi!  for  toasting  light  joints,  ot 
sranning.tbem  up.  ,- 


BOJkSTING*  76 

poet  wbo  wrote  our  national  baUad  at  the  end  of  this  chapter, 
was  not  inspired  by  Sir  Benjamin  Thompson's  cookery. 

All  your  attention  in  roasting  will  be  thrown  away«  if  you 
do  not  take  care  that  your  meat,  especially  beef,  mw  been 
kept  long  enough  to  be  tender.  See  "•  adticb  to  cooks,** 
and  obs.  to  No.  6S, 

Make  im  the  fire  in  time ;  let  it  be  proportioned  to  the  din- 
ner to  be  dressed,  and  about  three  or  four  inches  kmger  at 
each  end  than  the  thing  to  be  roasted,  or  the  ends  of  the  meat 
cannot  be  done  nice  and  brown. 

A  cook  must  be  as  particular  to  proportion  her  fire  to  the 
bttsiniBSs  she  has  to  do,  as  a  chemist :  the  deme  of  heat 
mo^  desirable  for  dressing  the  different  sorts  of  food  ought 
to  be  attended  to  with  the  uttnost  fyecision* 

The  fire  that  is  but  just  sufficient  to  receive  the  noble  sir* 
loin  (No.  19),  will  parch  up  a  lighter  joint 

From  hair  an  hour  to  an  hour  before  you  beffin  to  roast, 
prepare  ^e  fire  by  putting  a  few  coals  on,  unnch  will  be 
sufficiently  lighted  by  the  time  you  wish  to  make  use  of  your 
fire ;  between  the  bars,  and  on  the  top,  put  small  or  large 
coals,  according  to  the  bulk  of  the  joint,  and  the  time  the  fire 
is  required  to  be  strong;  after  which,  throw  the  cinders 
(wetted)  at  the  back. 

Never  put  meat  down  to  a  bumed-up  fire,  if  you  can  pos- 
sibly avoid  it ;  but  should  the  fire  become  fierce,  place  the 
spit  at  a  considerable  distance,  and  allow  a  little  more  time. 

Preserve  the  fat,*  by  covering  it  with  paper,  for  this  pur- 
pose called  ''  kitchen-paper,"  and  tie  it  on  with  fine  twme ; 
pins  and  skewers  can  by  no  means  be  allowed ;  they  are  so 
many  taps  to  let  out  the  gravy:  besides,  the  paper  often 
starts  from  them  and  catches  fire,  to  the  great  injury  of  tlae 
meat. 

If  the  thing  to  be  roasted  be  thin  and  tender,  the  fire  should 
be  little  and  brisk:  when  you  have  a  larse  joint  to  roast, 
make  up  a  sound,  strong  fire,  equally  good  in  every  part  of 
the  grate,  or  your  meat  cannot  be  equally  roasted,  nor  have 
that  uniform  colour  which  constitutes  the  beauty  of  good 
roasting. 

Give  the  fire  a  good  stirring  before  you  lay  the  joint 
down;  examine  it  from  time  to  time  while  the  spit  is 
going  round;  keep  it  clear  at  the  bottom,  and  take  care 
there  are  no  smoky  coals  in  the  front,  which  will  spoil  the 
look  and  taste  of  the  meat,  and  hinder  it  from  roasting  evenly. 

*  If  Uiere  is  more  tat  than  ytm.  thiok  will  Im  eaten  witb  the  lean,  trim  it  off;  It 
will  make  an  excellent  nimfiHeCNo.  551,  or  554} :  or  clarify  it  (No.  ^). 


IS  HOASTINO. 

When  the  joint  to  be  roasted  is  tliicker  at  one  end  than  the 
other,  place  the  spit  slanting,  with  the  thickest  part  nearest 
ihe  fire. 

Do  not  put  meat  too  near  the  fire  at  first ;  the  larger  the 
joint,  the  farther  it  must  be  kept  from  the  fire :  if  once  it  gets 
scorched,  the  outside  will  become  hard,  and  acquire  a  dis- 
agreeable,  empyreumatic  taste ;  and  the  fire  being  prevented 
from  penetratmg  into  it,  the  meat  will  appear  done  before  it 
is  little  more  than  half-done,  besides  losing  the  pale  brown 
colour,  which  it  is  the  beauty  of  roasted  meat  to  have. 

From  14  to  10  inches  is  the  usual  distance  at  which  meat 
is  put  from  the  grate,  when  first  put  down.  It  is  extremely 
difficult-  to  offer  any  thing  like  an  accurate  general  rule  for 
this,  it  depends  so  much  upon  the  size  of  the  fire,  and'  of  that 
of  the  thmg  to  be  roasted. 

Till  some  culinary  philosopher  shall  invent  a  thermometer 
to  ascertain  the  heat  of  the  fire,  and  a  graduated  spit-rack  to 
regulate  the  distance  from  it,  the  process  of  roasting  is  at- 
tended by  so  many  ever-varying  circumstances,  that  it  must 
remain  among  those  which  can  only  be  performed  well,  by 
frequent  practice  and  attentive  observation. 

If  you  wish  your  jack  to  go  well,  keep  it  as  clean  as  pos- 
sible, oil  it,  andf  then  wipe  it :  if  the  oil  is  not  wiped  off  again 
it  will  gather  dust ;  to  prevent  this,  as  soon  as  you  have  done 
roasting,  cover  it  up.  Never  leave  the  winders  on  while  the 
jack  is  going  round,  unless  you  do  it,  as  Swift  says,  ^  that 
it  may  fiy  off,  and  knock  those  troublesome  servants  on  the 
head  who  will  be  crowding  round  your  kitchen  fire." 

Be  very  careful  to  place  the  dripping-pan  at  such  a  dis- 
tance fix>m  the  fire  as  just  to  catch  tne  drippings :  if  it  is  too 
near,  the  ashes  will  fall  into  it,  and  spoil  the  drippings*  (which 
we  shall  hereafter  show  will  occasionally  be  found  an  excel- 
lent substitute  for  butter  or  lard).  To  clarify  drippings,  see 
(No.  83,)  and  pease  and  dhpping  soup  (No.  329),  savoury  and 
salubrious,  for  only  a  penny  per  quart.  If  it  is  too  far  from 
the  fire  to  catch  them,  you  wdl  not  only  lose  your  drippings, 
but  the  meat  will  bcblackened  and  spoiled  by  the  foetid  smoke, 
which  will  arise  when  the  fat  falls  on  the  live  cinders. 

A  large  diipping-pan  is  convenient  for  several  purposes. 
It  should  not  be  less  than  28  inches  long  and  20  inches  wide, 
and  have  a  covered  well  on  the  side  from  the  fire,  to  collect 
the  drippings ;  this  will  preserve  them  in  the  most  delicate 

*  This  the  good  houeewife  will  take  ap  ocoaBionally,  and  paai  throngh  a  sieve  into 
a  alone  pan ;  bjr  leaving  it  all  in  the  dripping-pan  until  the  meat  is  taken  up,  it  not 
onljr  becoma  very  atiom,  but  when  the  meat  is  rlcbf  and  yieMa  mudi  of  it,  it  is  ape 
to  be  ipilt  in  baanng.   To  claxitt  drippinos,  see  No.  83. 


XOASTUfd.  77 

.State :  in  a  pan  of  the  above  size  you  niay  set  fried  fish,  and 
various  dishes,  to  keep  hot. 

.    This  is  one  of  Painter's  and  Hawke's  contrivances,  neat 
Norfolk-street,  Strand. 

The  time  meat  will  take  roasting  will  vary  according  to 
the  time  it  has  been  kept,  and  Uie  temperature  of  the 
weather;  the  same  weight*  will  be  twenty  minutes  or  half 
an  hour  longer  in  cold  weather,t  than  it  will  be  in  warm ; 
and  if  fresh  killed,  than  if  it  has  been  kept  till  it  is  tender. 

A  good  meat-screen  is  a  great  saver  of  fuel.  It  should 
be  on  wheels,  have  a  flat  top,  and  not  be  less  than  about 
three  feet  ana  a  half  vide,  and  with  shelves  in  it,  about 
one  foot  deep ;  it  will  then  answer  all  the  purposes  of  a 
large  Dutch  oven,  plate-warmer,  hot  hearth,  &c.  Some  are 
made  wtih  a  door  behind :  this  is  convenient,  but  the  great 
heat  they  are  exposed  to  soon  shrinks  the  materials,  and  the 
currents  of  air  through  the  cracks  cannot  be  {Nnevented,  so  they 
are  better  without  the  door.  We  have  seen  one,  which  haia 
on  the  top  of  it  a  very  convenient  hot  clatet^  which  is  a  great  ac- 
quisition in  kitchens,  where  the  dinner  waits  after  it  is  dressed. 

Every  body  knows  the  advantage  of  dow  hoUing,  Sicm 
roasting  is  equally  important. 

It  is  difficidt  to  give  any  specific  rule  for  time ;  but  if  your 
fire  is  made  as  before  directed,  your  meat-screen  sufilciently 
large  to  guard  what  you  are  dressing  from  currents  of  air,  and 
^e  meat  is  not  frosted,  you  cannot  do  better  than  follow 
the  old  general  rule  of  allowing  rather  more  than  a  auarter 
of  an  hour  to  the  pound ;  a  litUe  more  or  less,  according  to 
the  temperature  of  the  weather,  in  proportion  as  the  piece  is 
thick  or  thin,  the  strength  of  the  fire,  the  nearness  of  the 
meat  to  it,  and  the  frequency  with  which  you  baste  it ;  the 
more  it  is  basted  the  less  time  it  will  take,  as  it  keeps  the 
meat  soft  and  mellow  on  the  outside,  and  the  fire  acts  with 
more  force  upon  it. 

Reckon  the  time,  not  to  the  hour  when  dinner  is  ordered, 
but  to  the  moment  the  roasts  will  be  wanted. ,  Supposing 
there  are  a  dozen  people  to  sip  soup  and  eat  fish  first,  you  may 
allow  them  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  for  the  former,  and  about 
as  lonff  for  the  latter,  more  or  less,  according  to  the  tempta- 
tions the  ^  BON  oouT*^  of  these  preceding  courses  has  to  at- 
tract their  attention. ' 


*  InBtBt  vpo%  tJu  kuteker  fixing  a  tickkt  ef  the  wefgkt  U  emAjmwt. 

t  Ir  TBB  HBAT 18  FEOZBH,  the  usubI  pmctwe  is  to  pal  it  iflto  cold  water  till  it  ia 
thawod,  tlien  dry  and  roast  it  as  usual ;  but  we  recommend  you  to  Ixing  it  into  tbe 
liitelien  tlie  nJgbt  liefore,  or  early  in  the  morning  of  the  day  you  want  to  roast  it,  and 
\lne  warm  air  will  thaw  it  much  better. 

G2 


78  BOAams0. 

Wlien  the  joint  is  half  done,  remove  the  spit  and  dripping^* 
pan  back,  and  stir  up  your  fire  thoroughly,  that  it  may  bum 
elear  and  bright  for  the  browning ;  when  the  steam  from  the 
meat  draws  towards  the  fire,*  it  is  a  sign  of  its  being  done 
enough ;  but  you  will  be  the  best  judge  of  that,  from  the  time 
it  has  been  down,  the  strength  of  the  fire  you  hare  used,  and 
the  distance  your  spit  has  \^en  from  it. 

Half  an  hour  before  your  meat  is  done,  make  some  grar^ 
{set  Riceiptf  No.  326) ;  and  just  before  you  take  it  up,  put  it 
itearer  the  hte  to  brown  it.  If  you  wish  to  froth  it,  baste  it, 
and  dredge  it  with  flour  carefully :  you  cannot  do  this  deli* 
cately  nice  without  a  very  good  light*  The  common  fault 
seems  to  be  using  too  much  flour.  The  meat  should  have  a 
fee  light  varnish  of  frotii,  not  the  appearance  of  being  covered 
With  a  paste.  Those  who  are  particular  about  the  froth  use 
butter  instead  of  drippings ;  (see  receipt  to  roast  a  turkeyt 
No.  57)— 

**  And  send  up  what  you  roast  with  rdisb-giving  froth,*' 

says  Dr.  King,  and  present  such  an  agreeable  ajipearance  to 
the 'eye,  that  the  palate  may  be  prepossessed  in  its  favour  at 
first  sight ;  therefore,  have  the  whole  course  dished,  before 
roasts  ate  taken  from  the  fire. 

A  good  cook  is  as  anxiously  attentive  to  the  appearance 
and  colour  of  her  roasts,  as  a  court  beauty  is  to  her  com- 
plexion at  a  birdiday  ball.  If  your  meat  does  not  brown  so  ' 
much,  or  so  evenly  as  you  wish,  take  two  ounces  of  Glaze, 
i,  e.  portable  soup,  put  four  table-spoonfuls  of  water,  and  let 
it  warm  and  dissolve  gradually  by  the  side  of  the  fire.  This 
will  be  done  in  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  put  it  on  the 
meat  equally  an  over  with  a  paste-brush  the  last  thing  before 
it  goes  to  table. 

l%ough  roasting  is  one  of  the  most  common,  and  is  gene« 
rally  considered  one  of  the  most  easy  and  simple  processes 
of  cookery,  it  requires  more  unremitting  attention  to  perfoim 
it  perfectly  well  than  it  does  to  make  most  made-dishes. 

That  made-dishes  are  the  most  difilcult  preparations,  de- 
serves to  be  reckoned  among  the  culinary  vulgar  errors ;  in 
plain  roasting  and  boiling  it  is  not  easy  to  repair  a  mistake 
once  made ;  and  all  the  discretion  and  attention  of  a  steady, 
careful  cook,  must  be  unremittingly  upon  the  alert.t 

•  When  the  steam  begins  to  arise,  it  is  a  proof  that  the  whole  joint  Is  thoroaghly 

saturated  with  heat ;  any  unnecessary  inraporation  is  a  waste  or  the  best  Boiirish< 

ihent  of  the  meat. 

t  A  celebrated  French  writer  has  iriven  us  the  foUowiniT'Oli^i^Ationson  roa8tinfr>* 

"  The  art  of  roasting  victuals  to  the  precise  degree,  is  one  of  the  most  difficult  in 

this  world;  and  yo»  mayfindhulfa  thousand  goad  cooks  soontr  than  ont  perfe<t 


ROABTIlfG.  n 

A  dil^[ent  attention  to  time,  the  distance  of  the  meat  from, 
and  judicious  management  of,  the  fire^  and  frequent  basting* 
are  all  the  general  rules  we  can  prescribe.  We  shall  dehver 
particular  rales  for  particular  thmgs,  as  the  several  articles 
occur,  and  do  our  utmost  endeavours  to  instruct  our  readMr 
as  completely  as  words  can  describe  the  process,  and  teach 

**  Tbe  management  of  common  things  so  wdl, 
That  what  was  thought  the  meanest  shall  exod: 
That  cook 's  to  British  palates  most  oomfriete, 
Whose  8av*ry  skill  gives  zest  to  oommon  meat: 
For  what  are  soups^  your  ragoOts,  and  your  sanca, 
Compared  to  the  fore  of  ou>  ENoi.Am>, 
And  ou>  English  koast  Bsar  !^' 

*  y^KiL  NOTICE,  that  the  time  given  in  the  fiXUming  re* 
ceipU  is  calculcUed  for  those  who  like  meat  thorofiighly 
roasted.    {See  MB.  preceding  yVo.  19.) 
Some  good  housewives  order  very  large  joints  to  be  rather 
under-done,  as  they  then  make  a  better  hash  or  broil. 
To  make  gravy  for  roast,  see  No.  326. 
N.B.  Roasts  mast  not  be  put  on,  till  the  soup  Kadfi^  are 
taken  off  the  table. 

rooHer,  (See  *  Alnunueh  det  t?MinaaiuIs,*  vol.  i.  p.  37.)  In  the  mansions  of  the 
opulentj  they  have,  besides  the  master  kitchener,  a  roasm,  (perfectly  independent 
of  tbe  former,}  wtio  is  exclusively  devoted  to  the  spit. 

**  All  erudite  gourmands  know  that  these  two  important  ftmetlons  cannot  be  par* 
fiirraed  by  one  artist ;  it  is  quite  impoasiMe  at  the  same  ttane  to mparintend  tte<MM 
rations  of  the  spit  and  stewpan.** — Further  on,  the  same  author  observes:  **No 
certain  rules  can  be  given  for  roasting,  the  perfectton  of  it  depending  on  many  eir. 
Gumstances  which  are  eontinoally  changing ;  the  age  and  size  (espedally  tte  tMek- 
ness)  of  the  pieces,  tbe  quality  of  tbe  coals,  the  temperature  of  tbe  atmosphere,  the 
currents  of  air  in  the  kitchen,  tbe  more  or  less  attention  of  the  roaster;  and,  lastly, 
Clie  time  of  serving.  Supposing  the  dinner  ordered  to  he  o»  table  at  a  certain  Cfaae,  if 
tbe  fish  and  soup  are  niuch  liked,  and  detained  longer  than  tbe  roaster  has  calcic 
lated ;  or,  on  tbe  contrary,  if  tbey  are  despatched  sooner  than  is  expected,  the  roasla 
will  in  one  case  be  burnt  up,  in  the  other  not  doneenougb-*>two  misfortunes  equally 
to  be  deplored.  The  first,  however,  is  without  a  remedy ;  Jws  mnmUg  ra  tts  sWe, 
more  »r  leaa^  decides  the  goodness  of  this  mode  of  eookerf.  It  is  almost  Impoasibli 
to  seize  the  precise  instant  when  it  ought  to  be  eaten ;  which  epicures  in  roaati 
express  by  saying,  *  It  is  datie  to  a  tttm.*  So  that  tLere  is  no  exaggeratkm  in  sayiag, 
the  perftct  roaster  is  even  more  rare  than  the  professed  cook. 

**  In  small  families,  where  the  cook  is  also  the  n>&ster,  it  is  almost  ImposnUe  tbe 
rtfasts  should  be  well  done :  the  spit  claims  excluirive  attention,  and  Is  an  impetioos 
mistress  who  demands  the  eoth«  devotion  of  her  slave.  But  bow  can  this  be,  when 
tbe  cook  is  obliged,  at  the  same  time,  to  attend  her  fish  and  soup-kettles»  and  watc^ 
berstewpans  and  all  their  accompaniments  1— it  is  morally  and  ph3^eany  Impos- 
sible :  if  she  gives  that  delicate  and  constant  attentkm  to  tbe  roasts  which  is  indlt- 
pensahiy  requisite,  the  reA  of  the  dinner  must  often  be  spoiled;  and  most  cooks 
woukl  rather  kwe  their  character  as  a  roaster,  than  n^lect  the  made-disbes  and 
*  cntremete,*  &e.,  where  t|iey  think  tbey  can  display  their  «ii/tncry  scmniw,-— than 
sacrifice  these  to  the  roasts,  tbe  perfection  of  which  will  only  prove  tbefar  steady 
vigilance  and  patience." 

*  Our  ancestors  were  very  particular  in  their  bastikss  and  drumihos,  as  will 
be  seen  by  the  following  quotation  from  Mat*s  "  JleeompUsAed  Cook^*  London,  1601^ 
p.  136.  "  The  rarest  way^  of  dressing  of  all  manner  of  roast  meats,  either  flesh  or 
fowl,  Imt  sea  or  land,  and  divers  ways  of  breading  or  dredging  meats  to  prevent  tbe 
gravy  from  too  much  evaporating." 


80  mYiNG. 

h  Floor  mixed  with  grated  bread. 

5.  Sweet  herte  dried  and  powderedt  and  likiied  with  grated  bread. 

3,  Lemon-ped  dried  and  pounded,  or  orange*peel,  mixed  with  flour. 

4.  Sugar  finely  powdered,  and  mixed  with  pounded  cinnamon,  and  llotir  or  gratad 
toMd. 

&  Fennel-aeedB,  coriandera,  cinnamon,  and  sugar,  finely  beaten,  and  mixed  with 
grated  bread  or  flour. 

6.  For  young  pigs,  grated  bread  or  flour,  mixed  with  beaten  nutmeg,  ginger; 


pepper,  sugar,  and  yeUn  of  eggs. 
7.  Sugar,        -  - 


bread,  and  salt,  mixed. 

BASTIHOe. 

:  I.  Fresb  butter. 

2.  Clarified  suet. 

3.  Minced  sweet  herfae,  butter,  and  claret,  especially  for  mutton  and  lamb. 

4.  Water  and  salt 

5.  Cream  and  melted  butter,  especially  fdr  a  flayed  pig.  ^ 
6  Yeilcs  of  eggs,  grated  biscuit,  and  Juice  of  oranges. 


CHAPTER  III. 

FRYING. 

Frying  is  often  a  conyenient  mode  of  cookery;  it  ma^be 
performed  by  a  fire  which  will  not  do  for  roasting  or  boilmg; 
and  by  the  introduction  of  the  pan  between  the  meat  and  the 
fire,  tnings  get  more  equally  dressed. 

The  Dutch  oven  or  bonnet  is  another  very  convenient 
utensil  for  small  things,  and  a  very  useful  substitute  for  the 
jack,  the  gridiron,  or  inring-pan. 

A  frying-pan  should  be  about  four  inches  deep,  with  a 
perfecdy  flat  and  thick  bottom,  ISi  inches  long  and  9 
broad,  with  perpendicular  sides,  and  must  be  half  filled  with 
fat :  good  frying  is,  in  fact,  boiling  in  fat.  To  make  sure  that 
the  pan  is  quite  dean,  rub  a  little  fat  over  it,  and  then  make 
it  warm,  and  wipe  it  out  with  a  clean  cloth. 

Be  very  particular  in  frying,'  never  to  use  any  oil,  butter, 
lard,  or  drippings,  but  what  is  quite  clean,  fresh,  and 
free  from  ssdt.  Any  thing  dirty  spoils  the  look ;  any  thing 
bad-tasted  or  stale,  spoils  the  flavour ;  and  salt  prevents  its 
browning. 

Fine  (dive.oU  is  the  most  delicate  for  frying ;  but.  the  best 
oil  is  expensive,  and  bad  oil  spoils  every  thing  tfiat  is  dressed 
with  it. 

For  general  purposes,  and  especially  for  fish,  clean  fresh 


lard  18  not  near  so  expensire  as  oil*  or  clarified  butter,  and 
does  almost  as  well.  Butter  often  bums  before  you  are 
aware  of  it;  and  what  you  fry  will  get  a  dark  and  dirty 
appearance. 

Cooks  in  large  kitchens,  where  there  is  a  great  deal  of 
frying,  commoiSy  use  mutton  or  beef  suet  clarified  (see  No. 
84) :  if  from  the  kidney,  all  the  better. 

Dripping,  if  nicely  clean  and  fresh,*  is  almost  as  good  as 
any  thin^^;  if  not  clean,  it  may  be  easily  clarified  (see  No. 
83).  Whatever  fat  you  use,  after  you  have  done  frying,  let 
it  remain  in  the  pan  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  pour  it 
through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  basin ;  it  wiU  do  three  or  four 
times  as  well  as  it  did  at  first,  i,  e.  if  it  has  not  burned:  but, 
Mem,  the  fat  you  have  fried  fish  in  must  not  be  used  for  any 
other  purpose. 

To  know  when  the  fat  is  of  a  proper  heat,  according  to 
what  you  are  to  fry,  is  the  great  secret  in  fr3ring. 

To  fry  fish,  parsley,  potatoes,  or  any  thing  that  is  watery, 
your  fire  must  be  very  clear,  and  the  fat  quite  hot ;  which  you 
may  be  pretty  sure  of,  when  it  has  done  hissing,  and  is  still. 
We  cannot  insist  too  strongly  on  this  point :  if  the  fat  is  not 
very  hot,  you  cannqt  fry  fish  either  to  a  good  colour,  or  firm 
and  crisp. 

'  To  be  quite  certain,  throw  a  little  bit  of  bread  into  the  pan ; 
if  it  fries  crisp,  the  fat  is  ready ;  if  it  bums  the  bread,  it  is 
^oo  hot. 

The  fire  under  the  pan  must  be  clear  and  shaip,  otherwise 
the  fat  is  so  long  before  it  becomes  ready,  and  demands  such 
attendance  to  prevent  the  accident  of  its  catching  fire,*  that 
the  patience  of  cooks  is  exhausted,  and  they  frequently,  from 
ignorance  or  impatience,  throw  in  what  ^ey  are  going  to  fry 
Mfore  the  fat  is  half  hot  enough.  Whatever  is  so  fried  will 
be  pale  and  sodden,  and  offend  the  palate  and  stomach  not 
less  than  the  eye. 

Have  a  good  light  to  fry  by,  that  you  may  see  when  you 
have  grot  the  ri^ht  colour :  a  lamp  fixed  oa  a  stem,  with  a 
loaded  foot,  which  has  an  arm  that  lengthens  out,  and  slides 
up  and  down  like  a  reading  candlestick,  is  a  most  useful 
appendaee  to  kitchen  fireplaces,  which  are  very  seldom  light 
enough  jor  the  nicer  operations  of  cookery. 

After  all,  if  you  do  not  thoroughly  drain  the  fat  from  what 

*  If  ttiiaunlSMrtiinitelT  iMiiptDi,  be  notalartied,  IwtiiiiBMdlateljrwet  a  basket  of 
ashiea  and  tiirow  tbem  down4he  chimney^  and  wet  a  blanket  and  hold  it  cloae  all 
tound  the  fireplace ;  as  sooaas  the  current  of  air  it  st<^ped,  the  fire  will  be  eztin- 
guiahed:  with  a  chailcoal  bxovjk  there  la  no  dancer,  ai  the  diameter  of  the  pan 
exceedi  that  of  the  fire. 


82  mtotLtso* 

jou  have  fried,  especially  from  those  thing^s  that  are  ffdl 
dressed  in  bread  crumbs,*  or  biscuit  powder,  &c.,  yottr  cook- 
ing will  do  you  no  credit. 

The  dr3mess  of  fish  depofids  much  upon  its  havingp  been 
fried  in  fat  of  a  due  degree  of  heat ;  it  is  then  crisp  and  dry 
in  a  few  minutes  after  it  is  taken  out  of  the  pan :  when  it  is 
not,  lay  it  on  a  soft  cloth  before  the  fire,  tumingf  it  occasion- 
ally, till  it  is.  This  will  sometimes  take  15  minutes :  therefore, 
always  fry  fish  as  long  as  this  before  you  want  Uiem,  for  fear 
you  may  find  this  necessary. 

To  fry  fish,  see  receipt  to  fty  soles,  (No.  146)  which  is  the 
only  circumstantial  account  of'^  the  process  that  has  yet  been 
printed.  If  the  cook  will  stud^  it  with  a  little  attention,  jshe 
must  soon  become  an  accomplished  frier. 

Frying,  though  one  of  the  most  common  of  culinary 
operations,  is  one  that  is  least  commonly  performed  per« 
fectly  well. 


CHAPTER  TV. 

BROILING. 

And  as  now  tbere  is  nou^t  on  the  fire  that  is  spoflinf , 

We  *U  give  you  Jnst  two  or  three  hints  upon  broiling ; 

How  m  you  must  turn  a  bee&teaic,  and  how  seldom 

A  good  mutton  chop,  for  to  have  *em  both  well  done  ; 

And  fbr  skill  in  sncn  cookery  your  credit 't  will  fetch  up, 

If  your  broils  are  well-seasoned  with  good  moshroom  catchup/' 

Cleanliness  is  extremely  essential  in  this  mode  of 
cookery. 

Keep  your  gridiron  quite  clean  between  the  bars,  and 
bright  on  the  top:  when  it  is  hot,  wipe  it  well  with  a 
linen  cloth :  just  before  you  use  it,  rub  the  bars  with  clean 
mutton-suet,  to  prevent  the  meat  from  being  marked  by  the 
gridiron. 

Take  care  to  prepare  your  fire  in  time,  so  that  it  may  bum 
quite  clear :  a  brisk  and  clear  fire  is  indispensable,  or  you 
cannot  give  your  meat  that  browning  which  constitutes  the 

*  Wbta  you  Warn  ft  gnat  mkvy  %%%Mb  cRtntm,  €ivMe  yoar  loaf  (wbleh  sboold 
be  two  davs  oM)  into  thtm  eqaal  puts ;  take  the  mMdle  or  emmib  pieOA,  the  top  and 
bottom  WHl  do  fbr  tabte :  fn  the  iuwd  «ay  6f  cutting',  th«  ermH  is  »a»ted. 

OATiiSAL  Is  a  very  sMlBracAKy,  snd  an  eitcemeiy  eeonettical  tubttilute  for  hreai 
tritmbs.    See  No.  145. 


TE0STABUE8.  %S 

perfection  of  this  mode  of  eookerf » and  gives  a  relish  to  food 
it  cannot  leceive  any  other  way. 

The  chops  or  slices  should  be  from  half  to  diree-quarters 
of  an  inch  in  thickness ;  if  thicker,  they  will  be  done  too 
much  on  the  outside  before  the  inside  is  done  enough. 

Be  diligently  attentive  to  watch  the  moment  that  any  thing 
is  done:  never  hasten  any  thing  ttaX  is  broiling,  lest. you 
make  snuAe  and  spoil  it. 

Let  the  bars  of  the  gridiron  be  all  hot  through,  but  yet  not 
burning  hot  upon  the  surface :  this  is  the  perfect  and  fine 
condition  of  the  gridinm. 

As  the  bars  keep  away  as  much  heat  as  their  breadth 
covers,  it  is  absolutely  necessary  they  should  be  thoroughly 
hot  before  the  thing  to  be  cooked  be  laid  on  them. 

The  bars  of  gridirons  should  be  made  concave,  and  termi- 
nate in  a  trough  to  catch  the  gravy  and  keep  the  fat  from 
dropping  into  the  fire  and  making  a  smoke,  wnich  will  spoil 
the  broil. 

Upright  gridirons  are  the  best,  as  they  can  be  used  at  any 
fire  wimout  fear  of  smoke ;  and  the  gravy  is  preserved  in  the 
trough  under  them. 

N.B.  Broils  must  be  brought  to  table  as  hot  as  possible ; 
set  a  dish  to  heat  when  you  put  your  chops  on  the  gridiron, 
from  whence  to  the  mouth  their  progress  must  be  as  quick 
as  possible. 

When  the  fire  is  not  clear,  the  business  of  the  gridiron 
may  be  done  by  the  Dutch  oven  or  bonnet. 


CHAPTER  V. 

VEGETABtES. 

There  is  nothing  in  which  the  difference  between  an 
elegant  and  an  ordinary  table  is  more  seen  than  in  the  dressing 
of  vegetables,  more  especially  greens.  They  may  be  equally 
as  fine  at  first,  at  one  place  as  at  another ;  but  their  look  and 
taste  are  afterward  very  different,  entirely  from  the  careless 
way  in  which  they  have  been  cocked* 

They  are  in  greatest  perfection  when  in  greatest  plenty, 
t.  e.  when  in  full  season. 

By  season,  I  do  not  mean  those  eariy  days,  that  luzuiy  in 
the  buyers,  and  avarice  in  the  s^ers,  force  the  various  vege- 


84  V£0£TABIJBS. 

tables;  but  that  time  of  the  year  in  which  by  nature  and 
common  culture,  and  the  mere  operation  of  the  sun  and  cli*> 
mate,  they  are  in  most  plenty  and  perfection. 

Potatoes  and  pease  are  seldom  worth  eating  before  midsum- 
mer ;  unripe  vegetables  are  as  insipid  and  unwholesome  as 
unripe  fruits. 

As  to  the  quality  of  vegetables,  the  middle  size  are  pre- 
ferred to  the  largest  or  the  smallest ;  they  are  more  tender, 
juicy,  smd  full  of  flavour,  just  before  they  are  quite  full- 
grown.  Freshness  is  their  chief  value  and  excellence,  and  I 
should  as  soon  think  of  roasting  an*  animal  alive,  as  of  boiling 
a  vegetable  after  it  is  dead. 

The  eye  easily  discovers  if  they  have  been  kept  too  long; 
they  soon  lose  their  beauty  in  all  respects. 

Roots,  greens,  salads,  &c.  and  the  various  productions  of 
the  garden,  when  first  gathered,  are  plump  and  firm,  and  have 
a  fragrant  freshness  no  art  can  give  them  again,  when  they 
have  lost  it  by  long  keeping ;  though  it  will  refresh  them  a 
little  to  put  them  into  cold  spring  water  for  some  time  before 
they  are  dressed. 

To  boil  them  in  soft  water  will  preserve  the  colour  best 
of  such  as  are  green ;  if  you  have  only  hard  water,  put  to  it 
a  tea-spoonful  of  carbonate  of  potash** 

Take  care  to  wash  and  cleanse  them  thoroughly  from  dust, 
dirt,  and  insects :  this  requires  great  attention.  Pick  off  all 
the  outside  leaves,  trim  them  nicely,  and,  if  not  quite  fresh 
gathered  and  have  become  fiaccid,  it  is  absolutely  necessanr 
to  restore  their  crispness  before  cooking  them,  or  they  will 
be  tough  ^nd  unpleasant :  lay  them  in  a  pan  of  clean  water^ 
with  a  handful  of  salt  in  it,  for  an  hour  before  you  dress  them. 

*'  Most  vegetables  being  more  or  less  succulent,  their  full 
proportion  of  fluids  is  necessary  for  their  retaining  that  state 
i»f  crispness  and  plumpness  which  they  have  when  powing. 
On  being  cut  or  gathered,  the  exhalation  from  their  surface 
continues,  while,  from  the  open  vessels  of  the  cut  suiface, 
there  is  often  great  exudation  or  evaporation ;  and  thus  their 
natural  moisture  is  diminished,  the  tender  leaves  become 
flaccid,  and  the  thicker  masses  or  roots  lose  their  plumpness; 
Tliis  is  not  only  less  pleasant  to  the  eye,  but  is  a  real  injury 
to  the  nutritious  powers  of  the  vegetable;  for  in  this  flaccid 
and  shrivelled  state  its  fibres  are  lesa  easily  divided  in  chew- 
ing, and  the  water  which  exists  in  vegetable  substances,  in 
the  form  of  their  respective -natural  juices,  is  directly  nutri- 

*  Pearfaish  is  a  ffob-cftrbonatc,  and  will  answer  the  purpose.    It  is  a  comtnoi; 
article  in  the  kitchen  of  tbe  American  housekeeper.    A. 


VEQETABUS.  66 

tious.  The  first  care  in  the  preservaiion  of  succulent  Yege- 
tables,  therefore,  is  to  prevent  them  from  losing  their  natural 
moisture/^ — SvmpU  to  Edm,  Encydcp.  voL  iy.  p.  335.  j 

They  shoidd  always  be  boiled  in  a  sauce-pan  by  them- 
selres,  and  have  plenty  of  water;  if  meat  is  boiled  with 
them  in  the  same  pot,  they  will  spoil  the  look  and  taste  of 
each  other.  | 

If  you  wish  to  have  vegetables  delicately  dean,  put  on 
your  pot,  make  it  boil,  put  a  little  salt  in  it,  and  skim  it  per- 
fectly  clean  before  you  put  in  the  greens,  &c. ;  which  should 
not  be  put  in  till  the  water  boils  briskly :  the  quicker  they 
boil,  the  greener  they  will  be.  When  the  vegetables  sink, 
they  are  generally  done  enough,  if  the  water  has  been  kept 
constantly  boiling.  Take  them  up  immediately,  or  they 
will  lose  their  coU>ur  and  goodness.  Drain  the  water  from 
them  thoroughly  before  you  send  them  to  iMe, 

This  branch  of  cookery  re<)uires  the  most  vigilant  attention 

If  vegetables  are  a  minute  or  two  too  long  over  the  fire, 
they  lose  all  their  beauty  and  flavour. 

If  not  thoroughly  boiled  tender,  they  are  tremendously  in- 
digestible, and  much  more  troublesome  during  their  residence 
in  the  stomach,  than  under-done  meats.* 

To  preserve  or  give  colour  in  cookery,  many  good  dishes 
are  spoiled;  but  the  rational  epicure  who  makes  nourish- 
ment the  main  end  of  eating,  will  be  content  to  sacrifice  the 
shadow  to  enjoy  the  substance.    Vide  Ob$.  to  No.  333. 

Once  for  all,  take  care  your  vegetables  are  fresh :  for  as 
the  fishmonger  often  sufiers  for  the  sins  of  the  cook,  so  the 
cook  often  gets  undeservedly  blamed  instead  of  the  green- 
grocer. 

Vegetables,  in  this  metropolis,  are  often  kept  so  long,  that 
no  art  can  make  them  either  look  or  eat  well. 

Strong-scented  vegetables  should  be  kept  apart ;  leeks,  or 
celery,  laid  among  cauliflowers,  &c.  vriU  quickly  spoil  them* 

^  Succulent  vegetables  are  best  preserved  in  a  cool,  shady, 
and  damp  place. 

*^  Potatoes,  turnips,  carrots,  and  similar  roots,  intended  to 
be  stored  up,  should  never  be  cleaned  from  the  earth  adhe« 
ring  to  them,  till  they  are  to  be  dressed. 

*'  They  must  be  protected  from  the  action  of  the  air  and 

*  "  CAtTLiFLowBRs  Mif  otlwr  Vegetables  are  often  boiled  only  crtip  to  preserve 
tbelr  beauty.  For  the  look  alone  they  had  better  not  be  botied  at  all,  and  alnioet  aa 
well  for  the  uae,  as  in  this  erude  sute  they  are  aearcely  digestible  by  tbe  strongest 
stoiiiaeh.  On  the  otber  hand,  when  over-botled,  they  become  vapid,  and  in  a  state 
slinilar  to  decay,  in  which  they  affind  no  sweet jporifylng  Jaioes  to  the  body,  but  load 
it  with  a  maaa  of  mere  feoaleat  matter."— jDesiMtis  MtnagtmaUt  Hmo.  1813. 
p.  fi9. 

H 


86    '  FISH. 

frofit,  by  layiiig  them  iu  heaps,  buxying  them  in  sand  Or  earthy 
&c.,  or  covering  them  with  straw  or  mats. 

"  Tlie  action  of  frost  destroys  the  life  of  the  vegetable,  and 
it  speedily  rots."— Supp/.  to  Edtn.  E^ncydop.  vol.  iv.  p.  335. 

Mem. — When  vegetables  are  quite  fresh  gathered,  they 
will  not  require  so  much  boiling,  by  at  least  a  third  of  the 
time,  as  when  they  have  been  gathered  tl|e  usual  time  those 
are  that  are  brought  to  public  markets. 


CHAPTER  VL 

FISH. 

This  department  of  the  business  of  the  kitchen  requires 
considerable  experience,  and  depends  more  upon  practice 
than  any  other.  A  very  few  moments,  more  or  less,  will 
thoroughly  spoil  fish  ;*  which,  to  be  eaten  in  perfection,  must 
never  be  put  on  the  table  till  the  soup  is  taken  off. 

So  many  circumstances  operate  on  this  occasion,  that  it  is 
almost  impossible  to  write  general  rules. 

There  are  decidedly  different  opinions,  whether  fish  should 
be  put  into  cold,  tepid,  or  boiling  water. 

We  believe,  for  some  of  the  fame  the  Dutch  cooks  have 
acquired,  they  are  a  little  indebted  to  their  situation  affording 
them  a  plentiful  supply  of  fresh  fish  for  little  more  than  the 
trouble  of  catching  it ;  and  that  the  superior  excellence  of 
the  fish  in  Holland,  is  because  none  are  used,  unless  they 
are  brought  alive  into  the  kitchen  (mackerel  excepted,  which 
die  the  moment  they  are  taken  out  of  the  water).  The 
Dutch  are  as  nice  about  this  as  Seneca  says  the  Romansf 
were ;  who,  complaining  of  the  luxury  of  the  times,  says, 

*  When  tbe  cook  has  large  dinners  to  prepare,  and  the  time  of  serving  uneertafn, 
■he  will  get  more  credit  by  frikd  (see  Mo.  X45),  or  stewed  (see  No.  IM),  than  by 
•oiLKS  fish.    It  is  also  cheaper,  and  much  sooner  carved  (see  No.  145). 

Mr.  Ude,  page  338  of  his  cookery,  advises, "  If  you  are  obliged  to  wait  after  the 
fish  Is  done,  do  not  let  it  remain  in  the  water,  but  keep  the  water  boiling,  and  put 
the  fish  over  1^  and  cover  it  with  a  damp  ck)th ;  when  the  dinner  is  called  for,  dip 
the  fish  again  in  the  water,  and  serve  it  up." 

The  only  cireamstantia]  instructioiw  yet  printed  for  nTum  nsa,  the  reader  will 
find  in  No.  145 ;  if  this  be  caref uUy  and  nicely  attended  to,  you  wlU  have  delicious 
food. 

t  They  had  saltwater  preserves  for  feeding  different  kinds  of  sea-flah ;  those  in 
the  ponds  of  LuculUis,  at  his  death,  sold  for  25,000i.  sterttng.  The  proUfle  power  of 
fish  is  wonderful:  tbe  following  calculatiow  are  firom  FeUt,  Biock»  and  UHLWtn*. 
hocck : — 


nm.  87 

<*  They  are  come  to  that  daintiness,  that  they  will  not  eat  a 
ilsh,  unless  upon  the  same  day  that  it  is  taken,  thai  it  may 
taste  of  the  sea,  as  they  express  it.** 

On  the  Dutch  flat  coast,  the  fish  are  taken  with  nets :  on 
our  rocky  coast,  they  are  mostly  caught  by  bait  and  hook, 
which  instantly  kills  them.  Fish  are  brought  alive  by  land 
to  the  Dutch  markets,  in  water  casks  with  air-holes  in  the 
top.  Salmon,  and  other  fish,  are  thus  preserved  in  rivers,  in 
a  well-hole  in  the  fishing-boat. 

All  kinds  of  fish  are  best  some  time  before  they  begin  to 
spawn ;  and  are  unfit  for  food  for  some  time  after  they  have 
spawned. 

Fish,  like  animals,  are  fittest  for  the  table  when  they  are 
just  full  grown ;  and  what  has  been  said  in  Chapter  V.  re- 
specting vegetables,  applies  equally  well  to  fish. 

llie  most  convenient  utensil  to  boil  fish  in,  is  a  turbot- 
kettle.  This  should  be  24  inches  long,  22  wide,  and  9  deep. 
It 'is  an  excellent  vessel  to  boil  a  ham  in,  &c.  &c. 

The  good  folks  of  this  metropolis  are  so  often  disappointed 
by  having  fish  which  has  been  kept  too  long,  that  they  are 
apt  to  run  into  the  other  extreme,  and  suppose  that  fish  will 
not  ^ress  well  unless  it  is  absolutely  alive.  This  is  true. of 
lobsters,  &c.  (No.  176),  and  toiay  be  of  fresh-water  fish,  but 
certainly  not  of  some  sea-fish. 

Several  respectable  fishmongers  and  experienced  cooks 
have  assured  the  editor,  that  they  are  often  in  danger  of 
losing  their  credit  by  fish  too  fresh,  and  especially  turbot  and 
cod,  which,  like  meat,  require  a  certain  time  before  they  are 
in  the  best  condition  to  be  dressed.  They  recommend  them 
to  be  put  into  cold  water,  salted  in  proportion  of  about  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water.  Sea-water 
is  best  to  boil  sea^fish  in.  It  not  only  saves  the  expense  of 
salt,  but  the  flavour  is  better.  Let  them  boil  slowly  till  done ; 
the  mgn  of  which  is,  that  the  skin  of  tlie  fish  rises  up,  and 
the  eyes  turn  white. 

It  is  the  business  of  the  fishmonger  to  clean  them,  &c.  but 
the  careM  cook  will  always  wash  them  again. 

Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon,  finely  scraped  horseradish, 
fried  oysters  (No.  183),  smelts  (No.  173),  whitings  (No.  163), 
or  strips  of  soles,  as  directed  in  No.  145. 


A  million  of  90  poonds  weight  eoDtained 'SJ^SO 

A  mlddling-fized  pike.; 148^000 

A  mackerel .' ; 546^061 

Acod 9,344,000 

See  Cmurs  Gastraiumiiue»j  ISmo.  1d06,  p.  941. 


88  nau  &i>rc£s. 

The  liver,  roe,  and  chitterlings  should  be  placed  so  tttd-t 
the  carver  may  observe  them,  smud  invite  the  guests  to  par- 
take of  them. 

N.B.  Fish,  like  meat,  requires  more  cooking  in  cold  than 
in  warm  weather.  If  it  becomes  frozen,*  it  must  be  thawed 
by  the  means  we  have  directed  for  meat,  in  the  3d  chapter 
of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery. 

[Fish  are  plenty  and  good,  and  in  great  variety,  in  all  the 
towns  and  cities  on  the  extensive  coast  of  the  United  States. 
Some  of  the  interior  towns  are  also  supplied  with  fish  pecu- 
liar to  the  lakes  and  rivers  of  this  country.    A.] 

FISH   SAUCES. 

The  melted  butter  (No.  256)  for  fish,  should  be  thick  enough 
to  a^ere  to  the  fish,  and,  therefore,  must  be  of  the  thickness 
of  light  batter,  as  it  is  to  be  diluted  with  essence  of  anchovy 
(No.  433),  soy  (No.  436),  mushroom  catchup  (No.  43d}, 
Cayenne  (No.  404),  or  Chili  vinegar  (No.  405),  lemons  or 
lemon-juice,  pr  artificial  lemon-juice,  (see  No.  467*),  &c. 
which  are  expected  at  all  well-served  tables; 

Cooks,  who  are  jealous  of  the  reputation  of  their  taste, 
and  housekeepers,  who  value  their  health,  will  prepare  these 
articles  at  home :  there  are  quite  as  many  reasons  why  they 
should,  as  there  are  for  the  preference  usually  given  to  home- 
baked  bread  and  home-brewed  beer,  &c. 

N.B.  The  liver  of  the  fish  pounded  and  mixed  with  but- 
ter, with  a  little  lemon-juice,  &c.  is  an  elegant  and  inoffensive 
relish  to  fishi  (see  No.  288).  Mushroom  sauce  extempore 
(No.  307),  or  the  soup  of  mock  turtle  (No.  247),  will  make 
an  excellent  fish  sauce. 

On  the  comparatively  nutritive  qualities  of  fish,  see  N.B. 
to  No.  181. 

*  Fish  are  very  ftequcntly  sent  borne  frozen  hy  the  fishmongert  to  whmn  an  ice- 
boose  is  now  as  necessaiy  an  appendage  (to  preserve  fish,)  as  it  is  to  a  confectioner. 


BBOTHS  ASD  flovn.  89 


CHAPTER  Vn- 

BROTHS   AND  S0VP8. 

!  The  cook  must  pay  continual  attention  to  the  condition  of 

ber  stew-pans*  and  soup-kettles,  &c.  which  should  be  exa» 

mined  every  time  they  are  used.    The  prudent  housewife 

will  carefully  examine  the  condition  of  them  herself  at  least 

once  a  month.    Their  covers  also  must  be  kept  perfectly    - 

clean  and  well  tinned,  and  the  stew-pans  not  cMily  on  the 

inside,  but  about  a  couple  of  inches  on  the  outside :  many 

mischiefs  arise  from  their  getting  out  of  repair;  and  if  not 

kept  nicely  tinned,  all  your  good  work  will  be  in  vain ;  the 

\  broths  and  soups  will  look  green  and  dirty,  taste  bitter  and 

i  pois<mous,  and  will  be  spoiled  both  for  the  eye  and  palate* 

)  and  your  credit  will  be  lost. 

The  health,  and  even  life  of  the  family,  depends  upon  this, 
I  and  the  cook  may  be  sure  her  employers  had  rather  pay  the 

I  tinman's  bill  than  the  doctor's ;  therefore,  attention  to  this 

cannot  fail  to  engage  the  regard,  of  the  mistress,  betweea 
whom  and  the  cook  it  will  be  my  utmost  endeavour  to  pro* 
mote  perfect  harmony. 
If  a  servant  has  the  misfortune  to  scorch  or  blister  the  tin* 
.  ning  of  her  pan,t  which  will  happen  sometimes  to  the  most 
careful  cook,  I  advise  her,  by  all  means,  immediately  to  ac- 
quaint her  employers,  who  will  thank  h^r  for  candidly  men* 
tioning  an  accident ;  and  censure  her  deservedly  if  she  con* 
ceal  it^ 

Take  care  to  be  properly  provided  with  sieves  and  tammy 
cloths,  spoons  and  ladles.  Make  it  a  rule  without  an  exception, 
never  to  use  them  till  they  are  well  cleaned  and  thoroughly 
dried,  nor  any  stewpans,  &c.  without  first  washing  them  out 
with  boiling  water,  and  rubbing  them  well  with  a  dry  cloth 
and  a  little  bran,  to  clean  them  from  grease,  sand,  &c.,  or 
any  bad  smell  they  may  have  got  since  they  were  last  used: 
never  neglect  this. 
Though  we  do  not  suppose  our  cook  to  be  such  a  naughty 

*  We  prefisr  the  fonn  of  a  itew-paa  to  tbe  M>a[hiMft ;  the  former  is  more  convenient 
to  skim :  the  most  osefiil  size  is  12  i  nches  diameter  by  6  inches  deep :  thi*  we  woitid 
have  of  sitver,  or  iron,  or  copper,  lined  (not  plated)  with  silver. 

t  ThiB  may  be  always  avoided  by  browning  your  meat  in  the  ftying*pan ;  il  if  the 
browninff  of  the  meat  that  destroys  the  stew-pan^ 

H2 


M  maOTBB  AKB  8(WP8. 

slut  as  to  wilfully  neglect  her  broth-pots,  &c.,  yet  we  may 
recommend  her  to  wash  fhem  immediately,  and  take  care 
they  are  thoroughly  dried  at  the  fire,  before  they  are  put  by, 
and  to  keep  them  in  a  dry  place,  far  damp  will  rust  and  de- 
stroy them  very  soon:  attend  ta  this  the  first  moment  you 
can  spare  after  the  dinner  is  sent  up. 

Never  put  by  any  soup,  gravy,  &c«  in  metal  utensils ;  in 
which  never  keep  any  thing  longer  than  is  absolutely  neces- 
sary for  the  pui^ses  of  cookery;  the  acid,  vegetables,  fat, 
&c.  employed  in  making  soups,  &c.  are  capable  of  dissolving 
such  utensils ;  therefore  stone  or  earthen  vessels  should-  be 
used  for  this  purpose. 

Stew-pans,  soup-pots,  and  preservii^  pans,  with  tMck  and 
round  bottoms  (such  as  sauce-pans  are  made  with),  will  wear 
twice  as  long,  and  are  cleaned  with  half  the  trouble,  as  those 
whose  sides  are  soldered  to  the  bottom,  of  which  sand  and 
grease  get  into  the  joined  part,  and  cookers  say  that  it  is 
next  to  an  impossibility  to  dislodge  it,  even  if  their  nails  ar^ 
as  long  as  Nebuchadnezzar's.  The  Editor  claims  the  credit 
of  having  first  suggested  the  importance  of  this  construction 
of  these  utensils. 

Take  care  that  the  lids  fit  as  close  as  possible,  that  the 
broth,  soup,  and  sauces,  &c.  may  not  waste  by  evaporation* 
lliey  are  good  for  nothing,  unless  they  fit  tight  enough  to 
keep  the  steam  in  and  .the  smoke  out. 

Stew-pans  and  sauce-pans  should  be  always  bright  on  tho 
xspper  rim,  where  the  fire  does  not  bum  them ;  but  to  scour 
them  all  over  is  not  only  giving  the  cook  needless  trouble/ 
but  wearing  out  the  vessels.  See  observations  (m  sauce-^ 
pans  in  Chapter  I. 

Cultivate  habits  of  regularity  and  cleanliness,  &c.  in  all 
your  business,  which  you  will  then  get  through  easily  and 
comfortably.  I  do  not  mean  the  restless  spirit  of  Moltdt^Oa^ 
^  the  Tidy  One^^  who  is  anon,  anon.  Sir,  frisking  about  in  a 
whirlpool  of  bustle  and  confusion,  and  is  always  dirty,  under 
pretence  of  being  always  cleaning. 

Lean,  juicy  beef,  mutton,  or  veal,  form  the  basis  of  broth; 
procure  those  pieces  which  afford  the  richest  succulence,  and 
as  fresh  killed  as  possible.* 

Stale  meat  will  make  broth  grouty  and  bad  tasted,  and  fat 
meat  is  wasted.  This  only  applies  to  those  broths  which  are 
required  to  be  perfectly  clear:  we  shall  show  hereafter  (in 

*  In  general,  it  baa  been  comidered  the  best  economy  to  use  the  cheapest  and  moeC 
inferior  meats  for  soup,  &c.^  and  to  boil  it  down  till  it  is  entirely  destroyed,  and 
hardly  worth  putting  into  the  hog-tub.  This  is  a  fklse  firusaltty :  buy  socxi  piecesof 
meat,  and  only  stew  them  till  they  are  done  eoough  to  be  eaten. 


i^oras  Aim  aoiwk  tl 

No.  S^),diatlatan4^uifieddimiiig8iiuybe8aooi^^ 
with  vegetable  mucilage,  as  to  afford,  at  the  small  cost  of  one 
pemiy  per  quart,  a  nourishing  and  palatable  soiqi,  fuUy  ade* 
quate  to  satisfy  appetite  and  support  strength :  tms  will  open 
a  new  source  to  those  benevolent  housekeepers,  who  are 
disposed  to  reheve  the  poor,  will  show  the  industrious  classes 
how  much  they  have  it  in  their  power  to  assist  themselves^ 
and  rescue  them  from  beine  objects  of  charity  dependent  on 
the  precarious  bounty  of  others,  by  teaching  them  how  they 
may  obtain  a  cheap,  abundant,  salubrious,  and  agreeable  all* 
meut  for  themselves  and  families. 

This  soup  has  the  advantage  of  being  very  easily  and  veiy 
soon  made,  with  no  more  fuel  than  is  necessary  to  warm  a 
room.  Those  who  have  not  tasted  it^  cannot  imagine  what 
a  salubrious,,  savoury,  and  satisfvingmeal  is  produced  by  the 
judicious  combination  of  cheap  homely  ingredients. 

Scotch  barley  broth  (No.  204)  will  furnish  a  good  dinner 
of  soup  and  meat  for  fivepence  per  head,  pease  soup  (No. 
221)  will  cost  only  sixpence  per  quart,  ox-tail  soup  (No.  240) 
or  the  same  portable  soup  (No.  252),  for  fivepenco  per  quartf 
and  (No.  224)  an  excellent  gravy  soup  for  fourpence  half- 
penny per  quart,  duck-giblet  soup  (No.  244)  for  three- 
pence per  quart,  and  fowls'  head  soup  in  the  same  manner 
for  still  less  (No.  239),  iviU  give  you  a  g<KKl  and  plentiftd 
dinner  for  six  people  for  two  shillmgs  and  twopence.  See 
also  shin  of  beef  stewed  (No.  493),  and  a-larmode  beef  (No«. 
502). 

BROTH  HERBS,  SO0P  ROOTS,  AND  SCASONINGS. 


Scotch  barley  (No.  204). 

Pearl  barley. 

Flour. 

Oatmeal  (No.  572). 

Bread. 

Raspings. 

Pease  (No.  218). 

Beans. 

Rice  (No.  321*). 

Vermicelli. 

Macaroni  (No.  513). 


Isinglass. 

Potato  mucilage  (No.  448). 

Mushrooms*  (No.  439). 

Champignons. 

Parsnips  (No.  213). 

Carrots  (No.  212). 

Beet-roots. 

Turnips  (No.  208). 

Garlic 

Shallots,  (No.  402.) 

Onions.t 


•  MvsBBOoM  cMTCttw,  made  as  No.  439,  or  No.  440,  will  answer  all  fhe  parpons 
of  musbrooms  in  soup  or  saucis,  and  no  store-room  sliouJd  ba  witliout  a  auwk  of  U. 

t  All  cooks  agree  in  this  opinion^  , 

JVo  savourp  dish  without  an  oniom. 
Sliced  omojufriedy  (see  No.  899.  and  note  under  No.  517),  with  some  butter  and 


92 


BBOTRB  aud  floun. 


Leeks. 

Cucumber.* 
Celery  (No.  314). 

CbLBBT  8BED.t 

Cres8-8eed,t  (No.  397). 

Parsley,!  (N-B.  to  No.  261.) 

Common  thyme.{ 

Lemon  thyme.| 

Orang^e  thyme.f 

Knotted  maijorumj:(No.417). 

Sage.J 

Mint  (No.  398). 

Winter  savoury.t 

Sweet  basilj  (No.  397). 

Bay  leaves. 

Tomata. 


Tarragon  (No.  396). 
Chervil. 

Burnet  (No.  399). 
Allspice^  (No.  419). 
Cinnamon^  (No.  416*). 
Ginger^  f  No.  411). 
Nutmeg.i 
Clove/Nb.  414). 
Mace. 

Black  pepper. 

Lemon-peel  (No.  407  ib  408.) 
White  pepper. 
Lemon-juice.  II 
Seville  orange-juice.F 
Essence  of  anchovy  (No. 
433). 


flour,  tin  tbey  are  browned  (and  robbed  through  a  ideve),  are  excellent  to  beig^teR 
the  eokmr  and  flavour  of  bravm  soups  and  sauces,  and  form  the  basis  of  most  of  the 
relishes  furnished  bv  the  "  Restaurateurs** — as  we  guess  from  the  odour  which 
ascends  from  tlieir  kitchens,  and  salutes  our  olfactory  nerves  "  an  paa$a$a.** 

The  older  and  drier  the  onion,  the  stronger  its  flavour ;  and  the  cook  will  regulate 
the  quantity  she  uses  accordingly, 

*  Burnet  has  exactly  the  same  flavour  as  cucumber.  See  Burnet  vinegar 
(No.  309). 

f  The  concentration  of  flavour  in  cklkrv  and  ckkss  sbbd  is  such,  that  half  a 
drachm  of  It  (Jnelff  pounded)  ^  or  double  the  quantity  if  not  ground  or  poundedi 
costing  onlff  one-tkird  of  a  farthings  will  impregnate  half  a  gallon  of  soup  with 
almost  as  much  relish  as  two  or  three  heads  of  the  fresh  vegetable,  weighing 
■even  ounces,  and  costing  twopence.  This  valuable  acquisition  to  the  soup-pot 
deserves  to  be  universally  known.  See  also  No.-409,  essence  of  CKLiar^  This  Is 
the  most  frugal  relish  we  have  to  introduce  to  the  eeonomist :  but  that  our  Judg- 
ment in  palates  may  not  be  called  in  question  by  our  fellow-mortals,  who,  as  the 
Ormsiolegists  say,  happen  to  have  the  organ  of  taste  stronger  than  the  orgoM  of  ac- 
eumutativenesSf  we  mUst  confess,  that,  with  the  flavour  it  does  not  impart  the  deli- 
cate sweetness,  Ite.  of  the  fresh  vqietable ;  and  when  used,  a  bit  of  sugar  should 
aeccMopany  it  i» 

%  See  No.  419,  No.  420,  and  No.  450.  Fresh  green  ba.8il  is  seldom  to  be  procured. 
When  dried,  much  of  its  fine  flavour  is  lost,  which  is  flilly  extracted  by  pouring 
wine  on  the  fresh  leaves  (see  No.  397). 

Tq  procure  and  preeetve  the  flavour  of  swbbt  akd  savoury  hbrbs,  celeryt  fcc. 
these  must  be  dried,  Ace.  at  home  (see  No.  417*  and  No.  461). 

«  See  No.  421  and  No.  457.  Sir  Hans  Sloane,  in  the  Phil.  Traaa.  Abr.  vol.  zl.  p. 
B67,  says, "  Ptmemo,  the  spice  of  Jamaica,  or  allspicb,  so  oalled,  from  having  a 
flavour  composed  as  it  were  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  nutmegs,  and  pepper,  may  de"' . 
servedly  be  counted  the  best  and  most  temperate,  mild,  and  innocent  or  oonunon 
spices,  almost  all  of  which  it  far  surposses,  by  promoting  the  digestion  of  meat,  and 
inoderately  heating  and  strengthening  the  stomach,  and  doing  those  friendly  offices 
to  the  bowels,  we  generaDy  expect  from  spices.*'  We  have  always  been  of  tiie 
same  opinion  as  Sir  Hans,  and  believe  the  on^  reason  why  it  is  the  least  esteemed 
spice  is,  because  it  is  the  cheapest.    "  What  folks  get  easy  they  never  ei^y.*' 

(I  If  you  have  not  fresh  orange  or  lemon-Juiee,  or  Coxweirs  eiyatallized  liamon 
acUl,  tho  artificial  Union  juice  (No.  407)  is  a  good  substitute  for  it. 

IT  The  juiec  of  the  sbvillb  oranqb  Is  to  be  preftrred  to  that  of  the  lbm ox,  tha 
flavour  is  finer,  and  the  acid  milder 


BB0TB8  XSD  SOUPS.  95 

The  above  materials,  wine,  and  mushroom  catdiup  (No* 
439),  combined  in  various  pioportionB,  will  make  an  endless 
vanety*  of  excellent  broths  and  soups,  quite  as  {feasant  to 
the  palate,  and  as  useful  and  agreeable  to  the  stomach,  as 
consuming  pheasants  and  partridges,  and  the  long  list  of 
inilammatoiy,  piquarUe,  and  rare  and  costly  articles,  recom« 
mended  by  former  cookery-book  makers,  whose  elaborately 
compounded  soups  are  like  their  made  dishes ;  in  which^ 
though  variety  is  aimed  at,  every  thing  has  the  same  taste, 
and  nothing  its  own. 

The  general  fault  of  our  soups  seems  to  be  the  employ- 
ment of  an  excess  of  spice,  and  too  small  a  portion  of  roots 
and  herbs.t 

Besides  the  ingredients  I  have  enumerated,  many  culinary 
scribes  indiscriminately  cram  into  almost  every- dish  (in  such 
inordinate  quantities,  one  would  suppose  they  were  working 
for  the  asbestos  palate  of  an  Indian  fire-eater)  anchovies, 
garlic,^  bay-leaves,  and  that  hot,  fieiy  spice,  Cayemii^  pepper; 
this,  which  the  French  call  (not  undeservedly  )jnfneft<  enragi 
(No.  404),  has,  somehow  or  other,  unaccountably  acquired  a 
character  for  being  very  wholesome;  while  the  milder 
peppers  and  spices  are  cried  down,  as  destroying  the  sensi- 
bility of  the  palate  and  stomach,  &c.,  and  being  the  source 
of  a  thousand  mischiefs.  We  should  just  as  soon  reconunend 
alcohol  as  being  less  intoxicating  than  wine. 

The  best  thing  that  has  been  said  in  praise  of  peppers  is, 
"  that  with  all  kinds  of  vegetables,  as  also  with  soups  (espe- 
cially vegetable  soups)  and  fish,  either  black  or  Cayenne 
pepper  may  be  taken  freely :  they  are  the  most  useful  stimu- 
I  lants  to  old  stomachs,  and  often  supersede  the  cravings  for 

*  The  eradite  editor  of  the  <'  Mmanaeh  des  GourmoMdSy**  vol.  ii.  p.  30,  teDs  us, 
that  ten  folio  volumes  would  not  contain  the  receipts  of  all  the  soups  that. have  been . 
invented  in  that  grand  school  of  good  eating, — ^tlie  Parisian  kitchen. 

t  "  Point  de  LigWMs^  point  da  OuisinUre^"'  is  a  favoarite  culinary  adage  of  ttae 
French  kitchen,  and  deserves  to  be  so :  a  better  soup  may  be  made  with  a  couple  of 
pounds  of  meat  and  plenty  of  vegetables,  than  our  common  cooks  will  make  yoa 
with  four  times  that  quantity  of  meat;  all  for  want  of  knowing  the  uses  of  aoup 
roots,  and  sweet  and  savoury  herbs. 

X  Many  a  good  dish  is  spoiled,  by  the  cook  not  knowing  the  proper  tue  of  ^ir, 
which  is  to  ^ve  a  flavour,  and  not  to  be  predominant  over  the  other  ingredients :  t 
morsel  mashed  with  the  point  of  a  knife,  and  stirred  in,  is  enough.    See  No. '403. 

$  Foreigners  have  strange  notions  of  English  taste,  on  which  one  of  their  culinaiy 
professors  has  made  tiie  following  comment :  "  the  organ  of  taste  in  these  islandkrs 

'  is  very  different  finom  our  ddicaU  palaUa;  and  sauce  that  would  eicoriate  ttae 

palate  of  a  Frenchman,  would  be  hwcA\ypiquanU  enough  to  midce  any  impressioil 
on  that  of  an  Englishman ;  thus  they  prefer  port  to  dar^*'  Ac    As  far  as  concemi 

,  our  drinking,  we  wish  there  was  not  quite  so  much  truth  in  Monsieur't  remarks 

but  ttae  characteristic  of  the  French  and  EngUata  Uteben  is  s^uee  withovt  n^ttance^ 

I  and  substance  toithout  sauee' 

'  To  make  Catbnki  of  Engliah  chiUies}  of  lafiiitc^  fintr  flavoor  than  the  Indian, 

see  N«.  404. 


94  SBOTHB  AND  fiOVFS. 

strow  drinks ;  or  diminish  the  quantity  otherwise  required.** 
See  Sir  A.  Casusle  on  (Hd  A^,  London,  1817.  A  certain 
portion  <tf  condiment  is  occasionally  serviceable  to  excite 
and  keep  up  the  languid  action  of  feeble  and  advanced  life : 
we  must  increase  the  stimulus  of  our  aliment  as  the  inirrita- 
biMty  of  oar  system  increases.  We  leave  those  who  love 
these  things  to  use  them  as  they  like;  their  flavours  can  be 
very  extemporaneously  produced  by  chilly-juice,  or  essence 
of  Cayenne  (No.  405),  eshallot  wine  (No.  403),  and  essence 
of  anchovy  (No.  433). 

.  There  is  no  French  dinner  without  sQup,  which  is  regarded 
as  an  indisooisable  cverture ;  it  is  commonly  followed  by 
^U  coup  d^Aprh^  a  glass  of  pure  wine,  which  they  consider 
so  wholesome  after  soup,  that  their  proverb  says,  the  phy- 
sician thereby  loses  a  fee.  Whether  the  glass  of  wine  be.so 
much  more  advantageous  for  the  patient  than  it  is  for  his 
doctor,  we  know  not,  but  believe  it  an  excellent  plan  to 
begin  the  banquet  with  a  basin  of  good  soup,  wmch,  by 
mwterating  the  appetite  for  solid  animal  food,  is  certaisdy  a 
salutiferous  custom.  Between  the  roasis  and  the  eriiremeU 
they  introduce  ^  U  coup  du  Milieu^  or  a  small  glass  of  /a- 
mauM  runif  or  essence  rf  punch  (see  No.  471),  or  Curacao 
(Ne.  474). 

The  introduction  of  liqueurs  is  by  no  means  a  modem 
custom :  our  ancestors  were  very  fond  of  a  highly  spiced 
stimulus  of  this  sort,  commonly  called  Ipocrassey  which 
generally  made  a  part  of  the  last  course,  or  was  taken  imme- 
diately after  dinner. 

The  crcffie  to  make  ypocras. 

"  Take  a  quarte  of  red  wyne,  an  ounce  of  s3mamon,  and 
halfe  an  ounce  of  g3mger;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  gre3me8 
(probably  of  paramse^  and  long  pepper,  and  halfe  a  pounde 
of  sugar;  ana  brose  {pruise)  all  this  {not  too  smaU),  and  then 
put  them  in  a  bage  {hoe)  of  wullen  clothe,  made,  therefore* 
with  the  wynee;  and  lete  it  hange  over  a  vessel,  till 
the  wynee  be  run  thorowe." — An  extract  from  Arnolds 
Qironicle. 

It  is  a  custom  which  almost  universally  prevails  in  the 
northern  p^rts  of  Europe,  to  present  a  dram  or  glass  of 
l%^pieur<,  before  sitting  down  to  dinner:  this  answers  the 
double  purpose  of  a  whet  to  the  appetite,  and  an  announce- 
ment imi  dinner  is  on  the  point  of  being  served  up.  Along 
with  the  dram,  are  presented  on  a  waiter,  little  square  pieces 


IMCTB  AMD  aontB.  d& 

Of  cheese,  slices  of  cold  toogoe,  dried  toofiie*  and  dried 
toast,  accompanied  with  fresh  caviar. 

We  again  caation  the  cook  to  aToid  overnMasoning,  espe- 
eially  with  predominant  flavours,  which,  however  agieeaole 
they  may  li^  to  some,  are  extremely  disagreeable  to  others. 
See  page  60. 

Zest  (No.  956),  soy  (No.  436),  cavice,  coratch,  anchory 
(No.  433),  curry  powder  (No.  455),  savou^  rftgodt  powder 
(No.  457),  soup  herb  powder  (No.  459  and  460),  browninff 
(No.  322),  catchups  (No.  433),  pickle  liquor,  beer,  wine,  and 
sweet  herbs,  and  savoury  spice  (No.  460),  are  very  conv^iien^ 
auxiliaries  to  finish  soups,  &c. 

The  proportion  of  wine  (formerly  sack,  then  daret,  now 
Madeira  or  port)  should  not  exceed  a  large  wine-glassfid  to 
a  quart  of  soup.  This  is  as  much  as  can  t^  admitted,  without 
the  vinous  flavour  becoming  remarkably  predominant ;  ^hoi;^ 
not  only  much  larger  quantities  of  wme  (of  whidi  claret  is 
incomparably  the  best,  because  it  contains  less  spirit  and 
more  flavour,  and  English  palates  are  less  acquainted  with 
it),  but  even  veritable  eau  ae  vie  is  ordered  in  many  books, 
and  used  by  many  (especially  tavern  cooks).  So  much  are 
their  soups  overloaded  with  relish,  that  if  you  will  eat  enough 
of  them  they  will  certainly  make  you  drunk,  if  they  donH 
ma^e  you  sick :  all  this  frequently  arises  from  an  old  cook 
measuring  the  excitability  of  the  eater^s  palates  by  his  own^ 
which  may  be  so  blunted  by  incessant  tasting,  that  to  awaken 
it,  requires  wine  instead  of  water,  and  Cayenne  and  garlic 
for  black  pepper  and  onion. 

Old  cooks  are  as  fond  of  spiee,  as  children  are  of  sugaVf 
and  season  soup,  which  is  intended  to  constitute  a  principal 
part  of  a  meal,  as  highly  as  sauce,  of  which  only  a  spoonful 
may  be  relish  enou^  for  a  plate  of  insipid  viands.  (See 
o6«.  to  No.  355.)  However,  we  fancy  these  large  quantities 
of  wine,  &c.  are  oftener  ordered  in  cookery  books  than  used 
iii  the  kitchen:  practical  cooks  have  the  health  of  their 
employers  too  much  at  heart,  and  love  *^  sauce  d  la  langu^  too 
well  to  overwine  their  soup,  &c. 

Truffles  and  morels*  are  also  set  down  as  a  part  of  most 
receipts.  These,  in  their  green  state,  have  a  very  rich  high 
flavour,  and  are  delicious  additions  to  some  dishes,  or  sent 
up  as  a  stew  by  themselves  when  they  aie  fresh  and  fine ; 
but  in  this  state  they  are  not  served  up  hslf  a  dozen  times 
in  a  year  at  the  first  tables  in  the  kmgdom:  when  dried 
they  become  mere  ^dug^s  in  pcttagt^  npA  serve  only  lo 

*  We  tried  lo  aoske  oateliop«r  these  by  CreBttag  tiMM  like  nrarinooan  (No.  439; 
liut  did  not  succeed. 


')^ 


96  BBOTHS  AKD  SOVBI. 

soak  up  good  gravy,  firom  which  they  take  more  taste  than 
they  give. 

The  art  of  composing  a  rich  soup  is  so  to  proportion  the 
several  ingredients  one  to  another,  that  no  particular  taste 
be  stronger  than  the  rest,  but  to  produce  such  a  fine  harmo- 
nious relish  that  the  whole  is  delightful  This  requires  that 
judicious  combination  of  the  materials  which  constitutes  the 
"  cA«f  dPauvre**  of  culinary  science. 
:  In  the  first  place^  take  care  that  the  roots  and  herbs  be 
perfectly  well  cleaned ;  proportion  the  water  to  the  quantity 
of  meat  and  other  inffredients,  generally  a  pound  of  meat 
to  a  quart  of  water  for  soups,  and  double  that  quantity 
for  gravies.  If  they  stew  gently,  little  more  water  need 
be  put  in  at  first  than  is  expected  at  the  end ;  for  when  the 
pot  is  covered  quite  close,  and  the  fire  gentle,  very  little  is 
wasted. 

Gentle  stewing  is  incomparably  the  best ;  the  meat  is  more 
tender,  and  the  soUp  better  flavoured. 

It  is  of  the  first  importance  that  the  cover  of  a  soup-kettle 
should  fit  very  close,  or  the  broth  will  evaporate  before  you 
are  aware  of  it.  The  most  essential  parts  are  soon  evapo- 
"tated  by  quick  boiling,  without  any  benefit,  except  to  fatten 
the  fortunate  cook  who  inhales,  them.  An  evident  proof 
that  these  exhalations*  possess  the  most  restorative  qualities 
is,  that  THE  COOK,  who  is  in  general  the  least  eater,  is,  as 
generally,  ihefattett  person  in  the  family,  from  continually 
being  surrounded  by  the  quintessence  of.  all  the  food 
she  dresses;  whereof  she  sends  to  her  master  only  the 
fibres  and  calcinations,  who  is  consequently  thin,  gouty,  and 
the  victim  of  diseases  arising  from  insufiicient  nourishment. 

It  is  not  only  the  ^res  of  the  meat  which  nourish  us,  but 
the  juices  they  contain,  and  these  are  not  only  extracted  but 
exhaled,  if  it  be  boiled  fast  in  an  open  vessel.  A  succulent 
soup  can  never  be  made  but  in  a  well-closed  vessel,  which 
preserves  the  nutrftive  parts  by  preventing  their  dissipation. 
This  is  a  fact  of  which  every  intelligent  person  will  soon 
perceive  the  importance. 

Place  your  soup-pot  over  a  moderate  fire,  which  will  make 

'*' "  A  pooY  man,  being  very  hungry,  staid  so  long  in  a  cook^s  shop,  who  was  dishing 
up  D^eat,  that  his  stomach  Was  satisfied  with  only  the  smell  ttiereof.  The  choleric 
cook  demanded  of  him  to  pay  fat  his  breakfast ;  Ihe  poor  man  denied  havins  bad 
any,  and  the  controversy  was  ref»red  to  Uie  deciding  of  the  next  man  that  woaU 
pass  by,  who  chanced  ft  be  the  most  notorious  idiot  in  the  whole  city:  lie,  oh  the 
relation  of  the  matter,  determined  that  the  poor  man's  money  should  be  put  between 
two  empty  dishes,  and  the  cook  should  be  recompensed  with  the  jingling  of  the  poor 
man's  money,  as  he  was  satisfied  with  the  smell  of  the  cook's  me^t."  This  Is 
afilrmed  by  credible  writen  as  no  Able,  but  an  ondonbted  truth.— FuLLKR'sJiStljr 
Statft  lib.  iil.  c.  12,  p.  90. 


BROTHS   Aia>   SOU»»  d7 

thjfe  water  hot  without  causmg  it  to  boil  for  at  least  half  an 
hour.;  if  the  water  boils  immediately,  it  will  not  penetrate 
the  meat,  and  cleanse  it  from  the  clotted  blood,  and  other 
matters  which  ought  to  go  off  in  scum;  the  meat  will  be 
hardened  all  over  by  violent  heat ;  will  shrink  up  as  if  it  was 
^scorched,  and  give  hardly  any  gravy:  on  the  contiary,  by 
keeping  the  water  a  eertam  time  heating  without  boiling,  the 
meat  swells,  becomes  tender,  its  fibres  are  dilated,  and  it 
yields  a  quantity  of  sc«m,  which  must  be  taken  off  as  socm 
as  it  appears. 

It  is  not  till  after  a  good  half  hour^s  hot  infusion  that  we 
may  mend  the  fire,  and  make  the  pot  boil :  still  continue  to 
remove  Uie  8c%m ;  and  when  no  more  appears,  put  in  the 
vegetables,  &c.  and  a  little  salt.  These  will  cause  more 
scum  to  rise,  which  must  be  taken  off  immediately;  then 
cover  the  pot  very  closely,  and  place  it  at  a  proper  distance 
from  the  fire,  where  it  wiU  boil  very  gently,  and  equally,  and 
by  no  means  fau^t. 

By  quick  and  strong  boiling  the  volatile  and  finest  parts  of 
the  mgredients  are  evaporated,  and  fly  off  with  the  steam, 
and  the  coarser  parts  are  rendered  soluble ;  so  you  lose  the 
good,  and  get  the  bad. 

Soups  will  generally  take  from  three  to  six  hours. 

Prepare  your  broths  and  soups  the  evening  before  you 
want  them.  This  will  give  you  more  time  to  attend  to  the 
rest  of  your  dinner  the  next  day ;  and  when  the  soup  is  cold, 
the  fai  may  be  much^  more  easily  and  completely  removed 
from  the  smfaee  of  it.  When  you  decant  it,  take  care  not  to 
disturb  the  settlings  at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel,  which  are  so 
fine  that  they  will  escape  through  a  sieve,  or  even  through  a 
TAMis,  which  is  the  best  strainer,  the  soups  appear  smoother 
and  finer,  and  it  is  much  easier  cleaned  than  any  sieve.  If 
you  strain  it  while  it  is  hot,  pass  it  through  a  clean  tamis  or 
napkin,  previously  soaked  in  cold  water;  the  coldness  of 
this  will  coagulate  the  fat,  and  only  suffer  the  pure  broth  to 
pass  through. 

-  The  full  flavour  of  the  ingredients  can  only  be  extracted 
by  very  long  and  s}ow  simmering ;  during  which  take  care 
to  prevent  evaporation,  by  covering  the  pot  as  close  as  pos* 
sible :  the  best  stew-pot  is  a  digester. 

Clear  soups  must  be  perfectly  transparent;  thickened 
«oups,  about  the  consistence  of  rich  cream ;  and  remember 
that  thickened  soups  require  nearly  doid)le  the  quantity  of 
seasoning.  The  piquance  of  spice,  &c.  is  as  much  blunted 
by  the  flour  and  butter,  as  the  spirit  of  rum  is  by  the  addition 
of  sugar  and  acid :  so  they  are  less  salubrious,  without  being 

*      *  I 


98  BBOTHS  AND  SOUFS. 

more  sarouiy,  fjrom  the  additional  quantity  of  8pice»  i^e, 
that  is  smuggled  into  the  stomach. 

To  thicken  and  give  body  to  soups  and  sauces,  the  follow- 
ing materials  are  used :  they  must  be  gradually  ihixe^  with 
the  soup  till  thoroughly  incorporated  with  it ;  and  it  should 
have  at  least  half  an  hour's  gentle  simmering  after:  if  it  is 
at  all  lumpy,  pass  it  through  a  tamis  or  a  fine  sieve.  Bread 
raspings,  bread,  isinglass,  potato  mucilage  (No.  448),  flour, 
or  fat  skimmings  and  flour  (see  No.  248),  or  flour  and  butter, 
barley  (see  No.  204),  rice,  or  oatmeal  and  water  rubbed 
well  together,  (see  No.  257,  in  which  this  subject  is  fully 
explained.) 

To  give  that  gltUinous  quality  so  much  admired  in  mock 
turtle^  see  No.  198,  and  note  under  No.  247,  No.  252,  and 
N.B.  to  No.  481. 

To  their  very  rich  gravies,  &c.  the  French  add  the  white 
meat  of  partridges,  pigeons,  or  fowls,  pounded  to  a  pulp, 
and  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  A  piece  of  beef,  which  has  been 
boiled  to  make  broth,  pounded  in  the  like  manner  with  a  bit 
of  butter  and  flour,  see  o6s.  to  No.  485*  and  No.  503, 
and  gradually  incorporated  with  the  gravy  or  soup,  will 
be  found  a  satisfactory  substitute  for  these  more  expensive 
articles. 

Meat  from  which  broth  has  been  made  (No.  185*,  and  No. 
252),  and  all  its  juice  has  been  extracted,  is^then  excellently 
well  prepared  for  pottino,  (see  No.  503),  and  is  quite  as 
good,  or  better,  than  that  which  has  been  baked  till  it  is  dry;* 
indeed,  if  it  be  pounded,  and  seasoned  in  the  usual  manner, 
it  will  be  an  elegant  and  savoury  hmcheon,  or  supper,  and 
costa  nothing  but  the  trouble  of  preparing  it,  which  is  very 
little,  and  a  relish  is  procured  for  sandwiches,  &c.  (No.  504) 
of  what  heretofore  has  been  by  the  poorest  housekeeper 
considered  the  perquisite  of  the  cat. 

Keep  some  spare  broth  lest  your  soup-liquor  waste  in  boil- 
ing, and  get  too  thick,  and  for  gravy  for  your  made  dishes, 
various  sauces,  &c. ;  for  many  of  which  it  is  a  much  better 
basis  than  melted  butter. 

The  soup  of  mock  turtle,  and  the  other  thickened  soups, 
(No.  247),  will  supply  you  with  a  thick  gravy  sauce  for 
poultry y  Jfishj  ragoiUs,  &c. ;  and  by  a  little  management  of 
this  sort,  you  may  generally  contrive  to  have  plenty  of  good 
gravies  and  good  sauces  with  very  little  trouble  or  expense. 
See  ziso  Portal}le  Soup  (No.  25^). 

*  If  the  gravy  be  not  completely  drained  from  H,  tlie  article  potted  will  Tory  mob 
turn  sour. 


BBOTHS  AND   S01/F8.  9^ 

If  soup  is  too  thin  or  too  weak,  take  off  the  cover  of  your 
soup-pot)  and  let  it  boil  till  some  of  the  watery  part  of  it  has 
evaporated,  or  else  add  some  of  the  thickening  materials  we 
have  before  mentioned ;  and  have  at  hand  some  plain  brown- 
ing :  see  No.  332,  and  the  obs.  thereon.    This  simj^e  pre- 

I'  paration  is  much  better  than  any  of  the  compounds  oearing 

that  name ;  as  it  colours  sauce  or  soup  without  much  inter- 
fering with  its  &vour,  and  is  a  much  better  way  of  colour- 
ing them  than  burning  the  surface  of  the  meat. 

When  soups  and  gravies  are  kept  from  day  to  day,  in  kot 
TveaiheVi  they  should  be  warmed  up  every  day,  and  put  into 
fresh-scadded  tureens  or  pans,  and  placed  in  a  cool  cellar  ;-iii 
temperate  weather  every  other  day  may  be  enough. 

We  hope  we  have  now  put  the  common  cook  into  posses- 
sion of  the  whole  arcana  of  soup-making,  without  much 
trouble  to  herself,  or  expense  to  her  employers.  It  need  not 
be  said  in  future  that  an  Englishman  only  knows  how  to  make 
soup  in  his  stomach,  by  swilling  down  a  large  quantity  of 
ale  or  porter,  to  quench  the  thirst  occasioned  by  the  meat  he 
eats.  John  Bull  may  now  make  his  soup  "  secundum  artem,*] 
and  save  his  principal  viscera  a  g^eat  deal  of  trouble. 

f  %*  In  the  following  receipts  we  have  directed  the  spices*" 

k  and  flavouring  to  be  added  at  the  usual  time ;  but  it  would 

greatly  diminish  the  expense,  and  improve  the  soups,  if  the 
agents  employed  to  give  them  a  zest  were  not  put  in  above 
fifteen  minutes  before  the  finish,  and  half  the  quantity  of 

f  spice,  &c.  would  do.    A  strong  heat  soon  dissipates  the 

spirit  of  the  wine,  and  evaporates  the  aroma  and  flavour  of 

[  the  spices  and  herbs,  which  are  volatile  in  the  heat  of  boiling 

\  water. 

In  ordering  the  proportions  of  meat,  butter,  wine,  &c.  the 
proper  quantity  is  set  down,  and  less  will  not  do :  we  have 

[■  carried  economy  quite  as  far  as  possible  without  ''  spoiling 

|i .?  the  broth  for  a  halfpenny  worth  of  salt." 

I  conclude  these  remarks  with  observing,  that  some  per- 
sons imagine  that  soup  tends  to  relax  the  stomach.  So  far 
from  being  prejudicial,  we  consider  the  moderate  use  of  such 

I  liquid  nourishment  to  be  higrhly  salutary.    Does  not  our  food 

and  drink,  even  though  cold,  become  in  a  few  minutes  a  kind 
of  warm  soup  in  the  stomach?,  and  therefore  soup,  if  not 
eaten  too  hot,  or  in  too  great  a  quantity,  and  of  proper  qua- 
lity, is  attended  with  great  advantages,  especially  to  those 
who  drink  but  little. 

*  Economists  recoiQioend  these  to  he  poufided ;  they  certainly  go  farther,  as  they 
call  it;  bat  we  think  they  go  too  far,  for  they  go  through  the  sieve,  and  maise  the 
soup  grouty. 


100  GRAVIES  AND   SAUCES, 

Warm  flnids,  in  the  form  of  soupi^  unite  with  oto:  jtiic^^ 
much  sooner  and  better  than  those  that  are  cold  and  raw : 
on  this  account,  restorative  soup  is  the  best  food  for  those 
Who  are  enfeebled  by  disease  or  dissipation,  and  for  old 
people,  whose  teeth  and  digestive  organs  are  impaired. 

"  Half  BubUilzed  to  chyle,  tbe  liquid  food 
Readiest  obeys  th*  aa«iinl1atiiig  powers." 

Alter  catching  cold,  in  nervous  headaches,  cholics,  indi^ 
gestions,  and  different  kinds  of  cramp  and  spasms  in  the 
stomach,  warm  broth  is  of  excellent  service. 

After  intemperate  feasting,  to  give  the  stomach  a  holyday 
for  a  day  or  two  by  a  diet  on  mutton  broth  (No.  564,  or  No. 
572),  or  vegetable  soup  (No.  218),  &c.  is  the,  best  way  to 
restore  its  tone.  ^  The  stretching  any  power  to  its  utmost 
extent  weakens  it.  *  If  the  stomach  be  every  day  obliged  to 
do  as  much  as  it  can,  it  will  every  day  be  able  to  do  less.  A 
wise  traveller  will  never  force  his  horse  to  perform  as  much 
as  he  can  in  one  day  upon  a  long  journey.'' — Father  Feyjoo's 
RvUsj  p.  85. 

To  WARM  SOUPS,  &c  (No.  485.) 

N.B.  With  the  portable  soup  (No.  252),  a  pint  of  broth 
may  be  made  in  five  minutes  for  threepence. 


CHAPTER  Vni. 

OSAVIBS  AKD  SAUCES. 


*'  The  spirit  of  each  dish,  and  zcbt  of  all| 
Is  what  ingeDlous  cooks  the  relish  call; 
Fpr  though  the  market  sends  in  loads  of  food, 
They  are  all  tasteless,  till  that  makes  them  good.*' 

Erne's  Art  of.Cookerf. 


*'  JSr  parvis  covnpontre  fnagruu^* 

It  is^of'  as  much  importance  that  the  cook  should  know 
how  to  make  a  boat  of  good  gravy  for  her  poultry,  &c.  as 
that  it  should  be  sent  up  of  proper  complexion,  and  nicely 
frothed. 

In  this  chapter,  we  shall  endeavour  to  introduce  to  her  all 


aBJLvaa  and  saucxs.  101 

the  materials*  which  give  flavour  in  Muce,  whidi  is  the  e»* 
sence  of  soup,  and  intended  to  contain  more  relish  in  a  Itch 
ipoonpd  than  the  fonner  does  in  a  tabk'tpaoML 

We  hope  to  deserve  as  much  praise  from  the  cconomuf  ts 
we  do  from  the  hon  viva$U;  as  we  have  taken  great  pains  to 
introduce  to  him  the  methods  of  making  substitutes  tot  those 
ingredients,  which  are  always  expensive,  and  often  not  to 
be  had  at  all.  Many  of  these  cheap  articles  are  as  savoury 
and  as  salutary  as  the  dearer  ones,  and  those  who  have  large 
families  and  limited  incomes,  will,  no  doubt,  be  glad  to  avail 
themselves  of  them. 

The  reader  may  rest  assured,  that  whether  he  consults 
this  book  to  diminish  the  expense  or  increase  the  {Measures 
of  hospitality,  he  will  find  all  the  information  that  was  to 
be  obtained  up  to  1826,  communicated  in  the  most  unreserved 
and  intelligil]^  manner. 

A  great  deal  of  the  elegance  of  cookeiy  depends  upon  the 
accompaniments  to  each  dish  being  ai^fwophate  and  well 
adapted  to  it. 

We  can  assure  our  readers,  no  attention  has  been  wanting 
on  our  part  to  render  this  department  of  the  work  worthy  of 
their  perusal ;  each  receipt  is  the  faithful  narrative  of  actual 
and  repeated  experiments,  and  has  received  the  most  deli- 
berate consideration  before  it  was  here  presented  to  them. 
It  is  ^ven  in  the  most  circumstantial  manner,  and  not  in  the 
technical  and  mysterious  language  former  writers  on  these 
subjects  seem  to  have  preferred ;  by  which  their  directions 
are  useless  smd  unintelligible  to  all  who  have  not  regularly 
served  an  apprenticeship  at  the  stove. 
'  Thus,  instead  of  accurately  eniunerating  the  quantities, 
and  explaining  the  process  of  each  composition,  tney  ord^ 
a  ladleful  of  stocky  a  pint  of  consomm/iy  and  a  spoonftd  of 
evUis;  aa  if  a  private-family  cook  had  always  at  hand  a 
soup-kettle  full  of  stocky  a  store  of  confomm^,  and  the  larder 
of  MUon  kouscy  and  the  apoons  and  pennyxBOfihs  were  the 
same  in  all  ages. 

It  will  be  to  very  little  purpose  that  I  have  tsiken  so  much 
pains  to  teach  how  to  manage  roasts  and  boils,  if  a  cook 
cannot  or  will  not  make  the  several  sauces  that  are  usually 
sent  up  with  them. 

The  most  homely  fare  may  be  made  relishing,  and  the 
most  excellent  and  independent  improved  by  a  well-made 

*  Sec  ia  pafM  91, 9S,  ▲  cataloous  or  mi  xHaBisnirrt  now  oaed  in  foopt, 

13 


102  GRAVIES  AND   SAUCES. 

sauce  ;*  as  the  most  perfect  picture  may,  by  being  well 
varnished* 

We  have,  therefore,  endeavouied  to  give  the  plainest 
directions  how  to  produce,  with  the  least  trouble  and  ex- 
pensef  possible,  all  the  various  compositions  the  English 
kitchen  affords ;  and  hope  to  present  such  a  wholesome  and 
palatable  variety  as  will  suit  all  tastes  and  all  pockets,  so 
that  a  cook  may  give  satisfaction  in  all  families.  The  more 
combinations  oi  this  sort  she  is  acquainted  with,  the  better 
she  will  comprehend  the  management  of  every  one  of  them. 

We  have  rejected^ome  outlandish  farragoes,  from  a  convic- 
tion that  they  were  by  no  means  adapted  to  an  English  palate. 
If  they  have  been  received  into  some  English  books,  for  the 
sake  of  swelling  the  volume,  we  believe  they  will  never  be 
received  by  an  Englishman's  stomach,  unless  for  the  reason 
they  were  admitted  into  the  cookery  book,  i.  e.  because  he 
lias  nothing  else  to  put  into  it. 

However  *^  Us  pampeuses  bctgatelles  de  la  Cuisine  Masqvji^'* 
may  tickle  the  fancy  of  dAmi^xivmomturs^  who,  leaving  the 
suli^tance  to  pursue  the  shadow,  prefer  wonderful  and 
whimsical  metamorphoses,  and  things  extravagantly  ex- 
pensive, to  those  which  are  intrinsically  excellent ;  in  whose 
mouth  mutton  can  hardly  hope  for  a  welcome,  unless  accom- 
panied by  venison  sauce ;  or  a  rabbit,  any  chance  for  a  race 
down  the  red  lane,  without  assuming  the  form  of  a  frog  or 
a  spider ;  or  pork,  without  being  either  "gvosj/?ed"  or  "  km^t- 

*  "  It  is  the  duty  of  a  good  sauce/.'  says  the  editor  of  the  AXmamuk  des  Oour» 
mands  (vol.  v.  page  6),  "  to  insinuate  itself  ail  round  and  about  the  maxillary  glands, 
and  inmerceptibly  awalien  into  activi^  each  ramification  of  the  organs  of  taste :  if 
not  sufficiently  savoury,  it  cannot  produce  this  effect,  and  if  too  piqnante^  it  will 
paralyze,  instead  of  exciting,  those  delicious  titillations  of  tongue  aiuf  vibrations  of 
palate,  that  only  the  most  aceomplislied  pfaiiosopliera  of  the  mouth  can  produce  on 
tlie  liighly-eduqated  palates  of  thrice  happy  grrndsgovrmands" 

t  To  save  tim^  anid  trouble  is  the  most  valuable  frugality:  and  if  the  mistress  of 
a  family  will  condescend  to  devote,  a  litde  time  to  the  profitable  and  ^teasaat  em- 
ployment of  preparing  some  of  the  stork  saucks,  especiaJly  Nos.  323.  402.  404. 
413. 429.  4^.  439. 454 ;  these,  both  epicures  and  economists  will  avail  themselves  of 
the  advantage  now  given  them,  of  preparing  at  home. 

By  tlie  help  of  these,  many  dishes  may  be  dressed  in  half  the  usual  time,  and  with 
half  the  Uoubte  and  expense,  and  flavoured  and  finislied  with  much  more  certainty 
than  by  the  conunoh  methods. 

A  small  portion  of  the  time  which  young  ladies  sacrifice  to  torturing  the  strings 
of  tbeh:  jnaito  /orie,  emptoyed  in  obtaining  domestic  accomplishments,  t|^ht  not 
make  them  worse  wives,  or  less  agreeable  companions  to  tlieir  husbands.  This  was 
tiie  opinion  200  vears  ago. 

"  To  speak,  then^  of  the  knowledge  whidi  belongs  unto  our  British  housewife,  1 
hold  the  most  principal  to  be  a  perfect  skill  in  cookbry  :  slie  that  is  utterly  ignorant 
tiierein,  may  not,  by  the  lawes  of  strict  justice,  challenge  the  freedom  of  marriage, 
because  indeede  slie  can  perfprm  but  half  her  vow :  she  may  love  and  obey,  but  she 
caimot  cherish  and  keepe  her  husband.**--G.  Markbah'b  EngUak  Ho*80wifei  M». 
A637,p.62. 

We  hope  our  fair  readers  will  forgive  us^  for  telling  them  that  economy  in  a  wiA^ 
1^  the  most  certain  charm  to  ensure  the  affootion  and  industry  of  a  husband. 


6BAVXE8  AKD  8AVCJB8.  103 

JUdP  (see  No.  51) ;  and  game  and  poultry  in  the  shape  of 
crawfish  or  hedgehogs;  these  travesties  rather  show  the 
patience  than  the  science  of  the  cook,  and  the  bad  taste  of 
those  who  prefer  such  baby-tricks  to  nourishing  and  sub- 
stantial plain  cookery. 

t  could  have  made  this  the  biggest  book  with  half  the  trouble 
it  has  taken  me  to  make  it  the  best :  concentration  and  per- 
spicuity have  been  my  aim. 

As  much  pains  have  been  taken  in  describing,  in  the  most 
intelligrible  manner,  how  to  make,  in  the  easiest,  most  agree- 
able, and  economical  way,  those  common  sauces  that  daily 
contribute  to  the  comfort  of  the  middle  ranks  of  society ;  as 
in  directing  the  preparation  of  those  extravagant  and  dabo- 
rate  double  relishes,  Uie  most  ingenious  and  accomplished 
**  officers  of  the  motUh^  have  invented  for  the  amusement  of 
.profound  palaticians,  and  thorough-bred  grands  gourmands 
of  the  first  magnitude  :  these  we  have  so  reduced  the 
trouble  and  expense  of  making,  as  to  bring  them  within  tlie 
reach  of  moderate  fortunes ;  still  preserving  all  that  is  valua- 
ble of  their  taste  and  qualities ;  so  ordering  them,  that  they 
may  delight  the  palate,  without  disordering  the  stomach,  by 
leaving  out  those  inflammatory  ingredients  which  are  only 
fit  for  an  ^  iron  throat  and  adamantine  bowels,**  and  those 
costly  materials  which  no  rational  being  would  destroy,  for 
the  wanton  purpose  of  merely  giving  a  fine  name  to  the  com- 
positions they  enter  into,  to  who^e  excellence  they  contribute 
nothinff  else.  For  instance,  consuming  two  partiidgeg  to  make 
sauce  for  one:  half  a  pint  of  game  gravy  (No.  339,)  will  be 
infinitely  more  acceptable  to  the  unsophisticated  appetite  of 
Englishmen,  for  whose  proper  and  rational  recreation  we  sat 
down  to  compose  these  receipts;  whose  approbation  we 
have  done  our  utmost  to  deserve,  by  devoting  much  time  to 
the  business  of  the  kitchen ;  and  by  repeating  the  various  pro- 
cesses that  we  thought  admitted  of  the  smadlest  improvement. 

We  shall  be  fully  gratified,  if  our  book  is  not  bought  up 
with  quite  so  much  avidity  by  those  high-bied  epicures,  who 
are  unhappily  so  much  more  nice  than  wise,  that  they  cannot 
eat  any  thing  dressed  by  an  English  cook ;  and  vote  it  bar- 
barously unrefined  and  intolerably  ungenteel,  to  endure  the 
sight  of  the  best  bill  of  fare  that  can  te  contrived,  if  written 
in  the  vulgar  tongue  of  old  England.* 

*  Thon^  Mine  of  tl^^e  people  eeem  at  last  to  have  foond  oat,  that  an  Engtfth- 
man'i  head  may  be  as  fitH  or  gravy  as  a  Frenchman**,  and  willing  to  give  the  me- 
ference  to  native  talent,  retain  an  Eng^iriinian  or  woman  as  ivtme  miiuster  of  their 
kitchen ;  stU  thor  seem  ashamed  to  confess  it,  and  commonly  insist  as  a  "  tim  fad 
ft«a,*'  that  |heir  EngUsh  domestics  8houId,.unaerBUuid  the  "^ar<«x  vout;**  and  not- 


104  GBAVIES  A3kD  SAUCES' 

Let  your  sauces  each  display  a  decided  character;  send 
up  your  plain  sauces  (oyster,  lobstert  &c.)  as  pisre  as  pos- 
sible }  they  should  oo^  taste  of  the  materials  froia  wnich 
they  take  their  name. 

The  imagination  of  most  cooks  is  so  incessantly  on  the 
hunt  for  a  relish,  that  they  seem  to  think  they  cannot  make 
sauce  sufficiently  savoury  without  putting  into  it  every  thing 
that  ever  was  eaten;  and  sui^sing  every  addition  must  be 
an  improvement,  they  frequently  overpower  the  natural 
flavour  of  their  plain  sauces,  by  overloading  them  with  salt 
and  spices,  &c. :  but,  remember,  these  will  l^  deteriorated  by 
any  addition,  save  only  just  salt  enough  to  awaken  the  palate. 
The  lover  of  "  ©toMancc"  and  compound  flavours,  may  have 
recourse  to  *<  the  Magazine  of  Toite,^"^  No.  462. 

On  the  ccmtrary,  of  compound  sauces  ;  the  ingredients  should 
be  so  nicely  proportioned,  that  no  one  be  predominant ;  so 
that  from  the  equal  union  of  the  combined  flavours  such  a  flnQ 
mellow  mixture  is  produced,  whose  very  noveltv  cannot  fail 
of  bein^  acceptable  to  the  persevering  ^ourmana^  if  it  has  not 
pretensions  to  a  pennanent  place  at  his  table. 

An  ingenious  cock  will  form  as  endless  a  variety  of  these 
compositions  as  a  musician  with  his  seven'*^  notes,  or  apaintef 
with  his  colours ;  no  part  of  her  business  offers  so  fair  and 
frequent  an  oj^rtunity  to  display  her  abilities:  u*ices, 
HERBS,  &c.  are  often  very  absurdly  and  injudiciously  jumbled 
together. 

Why  have  clove  and  allspice,  or  mace  and  nutmeg,  in  the 
same  sauce;  or  marjoram,  thyme,  and  -savoury;  or  onions, 
leeks,  eshalots,  and  garlic  1  one  will  very  well  supply  the 
place  of  the  o^er,  and  the  frueal  cook  may  save  something 
considerable  by  attending  to  mis,  to  the  advantage  of  her 
enmloyers,  and  her  own  time  and  trouble.  You  nught  as 
well,  to  make  soup,  order  one  quart  of  water  from  the  Ihames^ 
another  from  the  Ntw  Bivtry  a  third  from  Hampsiiad^  and  a 
fourth  from  CheUeaf  with  a  certain  portion  of  spring  and  rain 
water. 

In  many  of  our  receipts  we  have  fallen  in  with  the  fashion 
of  ordering  a  mixture  of  spices,  fee,  which  the  above  hint 
will  enable  the  culinary  student  to  correct. 

'^  Pharmacy  is  now  much  more  simple ;  cookbbt  may  be 

withstanding  they  are  porfectly  initiated  in  all  the  minutis  of  the  phlloeophy  of  the 
niooth,  consider  tbem  unellgiblef  if  they  cannot  scribble  a  bW  of  fare  in  pretty  g—d 
bad  Fnwuk,  <  ., 

*  The  principal  ageais^  now  emidoyed  to  flavour  soups  and  sauce*  are,  KnsB' 
KooHS  (No.  439),  01II0M8  (No.  490),  amchoyy  (No.  438),  i.sitoif-Jin€K  andrasb,  or 
naaviiRt  wimb,  (espeeially  good  cl^rkt),  swbbt  hbrbs,  and  savoitbt  shcbs.-^ 
Nd8.  iX^-ASKt,  and  457. 459, 4flQ. 


GMATne  AMP  tAUcnr.  105 

made  so  too.  A  prescription  which  is  now  oon^xmnded  with 
five  ingredients,  had  ftNrmerly  fifty  in  it :  people  begin  to  un- 
derstand that  the  materia  medica  is  tittle  more  than  a  collec- 
tion of  evacuants  and  stimuU;"— JSosiMirf  h^  ofj^humm. 

The  rago6U  of  the  Uui  emturtg  had  infinite^  more  ingre- 
dients thsui  we  use  now ;  the  praise  given  to  Wiil.  Rahiaha  for 
his  Cookery,  13mo.  1673,  is 

**  To  Ay  and  MeaMM,  bto  way '■  moK  neat, 
For  be  compoonda  a  diouflatad  aorta  of  aaeaL** 

To  become  a  perfect  mistress  of  the  art  of  cleverly  ex- 
tracting and  eombming  fiavours,*  besides  the  gift  of  a  good 
ta8te\  requires  all  the  experience  and  skill  of  the  most  accom- 
plished professor,  and,  especially,  an  intimate  acquaintance 
with  the  palate  she  is  working  for. 

Send  your  sauces  to  table  as  hot  as  possible. 

Nothing  can  be  more  unsightl]^  tiian  the  surfEU^e  of  a  sauce 
m  a  frozen  state,  or  garnish^  with  grease  on  the  top.  The 
best  way  to  get  rid  of  this,  is  to  pass  it  through  a  tamis  or 
napkin  previously  soaked  in  cold  water;  ^e  ccudness  of  the 
napkin  will  coagulate  the  fat,  and  only  suffer  the  pure  gravy 
to  pass  through:  if  any  particles  of  fat  remain,  take  them  oft* 
by  applying  altering  paper,,  as  blotting  paper  is  applied  to 
writmg. 

Let  your  sauces  boil  up  after  you  put  in  wine,  anchovy,  or 
thickening,  that  their  flavours  may  be  well  blended  with  the 
other  ingredients  ;t  and  keep  in  mind  that  the  ^  chef^cnnre^ 
of  COOKERY  is,  to  cutcrtain  the  mouth  without  offending  the 
stomach. 

NtfB.  Although  I  have  endeavoured  to  give  the  particular 
quantity  of  each  ingredient  used  in  the  foUowing  sauces,  w 
they  are  generally. made;  still  the  cook's  judgpnent  must 
direct  her  to  lessen  or  increase  either  of  the  inp;redients, 
according  to  the  taste  of  those  she  works  for,  and  will  always 
be  on  the  alert  to  ascertain  what  are  the  favourite  accompam- 
fnents  desired  with  each  dish.    See  Mviee  to  Cooks^  page  50. 

When  you  open  a  bottle  of  eaUhm  (No.  439),  ctamce  of 
anehavy  (No.  433),  ^c,  throw  away  the  old  cork,  and  stop  it 
closely  with  a  new  cork  that  will  fit  it  very  tight.  Use  only 
the  best  superfine  velvet  taper-corks. 

*  If  your  palate  beeomea  doll  bv  repeatedly  taatiof  ,  the  beal  way  to  rafieab  it  is 
to  wash  your  mouth  weli  with  piilk. 

t  Before  yoa  put  eggi  or  cream  Into  a  aaoee,  have  all  yoar  other  ingredients  well 
betted,  and  the  laaoe  or  aoep  of  proper  tiriekaeM;  becaiMe  neittaw  egM  nor  cream 
will  contribute  to  Uaicken  it— AiHer  you  haee  pul  theaa  in,  do  not  aetthe  eiew-peo 
on  the  atofve  again,  but  hold  it  ever  the  An,  and  abaice  it  nmad  oneway  till  she 
■aucc  Is  ready. 


106  MADB   DISSES. 

Economy  in  cor^s  is^xtremely  unwise :  in  order  to  save  d 
mere  trifle  in  the  price  of  the  corK,  you  run  the  risk  of  losing 
the  valuaUe  article  it  is  intended  to  preserve. 

It  is  a  vidgar  error  that  a  bottle  must  be  well  stopped, 
when  the  cork  is  forced  down  even  with  the  mouth  of  it ;  it 
is  rather  a  sig^  that  the  cork  is  too  small»  and  it  should  be 
redrawn  and  a  larger  one  put  in. 

To  make  botUe-cemenit. 

Half  a  pound  of  black  resin,  same  quantity  of  red  sealing- 
wax,  quarter  oz.  bees'  wax,  melted  in  an  earthen  or  iron  pot ; 
when  it  froths  up,  before  all  is  melted  and  likely  to  boil  over, 
stir  it  with  a  tallow  candle,  which  will  settle  the  froth  till  all 
is  melted  and  fit  for  use.  Red  wax,  lOd.  per  lb.  may  be 
bought  at  Mr.  Pew's  Blackmore-street,  Clare-market. 

N.B.  This  cement  is  of  very  great  use  in  preserving 
things  that  you  wish  to  keep  a  long  time,  which  without  its 
help  would  soon  spoil,  from  the  clumsy  and  inefTectual  man- 
ner in  which  the  bottles  are  corked. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

MADE  DISHES. 

Under  this  general  head  we  range  our  receipts  for  hashest 
STEWS,  and  ragouts,*  &c*  Of  these  there  are  a  great  multi- 
tude, affording  the  ingenious  cook  an  inexhaustible  store  of 
variety:  in  the  French  kitchea  they  count  upwards  of  6(KV 
and  are  daily  inventing  new  ones. 

We  have  very  few  general  observations  to  make,  after 
what  we  have  already  said  in  the  two  preceding  chapters  on 
suttees,  soupSj  &c.,  wmch  apply  to  the  present  cirapter,  as  they 
form  the  principal  part  of  the  accompaniment  of  most  of  Aese 
dishes.  In  fact,  made  dishes  are  nothing  more  than  rneat^ 
poultry  (No.  630),  or  fish  (Nos.  146, 158,  or  164),  stewed  very 
gently  till  they  are  tender,  with  a  thickened  jsauce  poured 
over  them. 

*  Sauee  for  ragoata,  &c.,  shonld  be  thickened  till  it  is-of  the  conatbtence  of  gooA 
rich  cream,  tliat  it  may  adhere  to  whatever  it  is  ponred  over.  When  yon  have  a 
large  dinner  todreas,  keep  ready-mixed  some  fine-sifted  flour  and  water  well  rubbed 
together  till  quite  smooth,  and  about  as  thick  as  butter.    See  No.  257. 


XADfi   DI8HXS.  107 

.  Be  careful  to  triin  off  all  the  skin*  gristlet  &c*  that  will  not 
be  eaten ;  and  shape  handsomely,  and  of  even  thicknefls,  the 
various  articles  which  compose  your  made  dishes :  this  is 
sadly  neglected  by  common  cooks.  Only  stew  them  till  they 
ai^e  just  tender,  and  do  not  stew  them  to  rags ;  therefore, 
what  you  prepare  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten,  do  not  dress 
quite  enough  the  first  day. 

We  have  given  recemts  for  the  most  easy  and  simple  way 
to  make  hashes,  &c.r  Those  who  are  well  skilled  in  culinary 
arts  can  dress  up  things  in  this  way,  so  as  to  be  as  afipreeable 
as  they  were  the  first  time  they  were  cooked.  But  nashing 
is  a  very  bad  mode  of  cookery:  if  meat  has  been  done 
enough  the  first  time  it  is  dressed,  a  second  dressing  will 
divest  it  of  all  its  nutritive  juices ;  and  if  it  can  be  smuggled 
into  the  stomach  by  bribing  the  palate  with  piquante  sauce, 
it  is  at  the  hazard  of  an  indigestion,  &c. 

I  promise  those  wiio  do  me  the  honour  to  put  my  receipts 
into  practice,  that  they  will  find  that  the  most  nutritious  and 
truly  elegant  dishes  are  neither  the  most  difficult  to  dress, 
the  most  expensive,  nor  the  most  indigestible.  In  these  com- 
positions experience  will  go  far  to  diminish  expense :  meat 
that  is  too  old  or  too  tough  for  roasting,  ^c,  may  by  gentle 
stewing  be  rendered, savoury  and  tender.  If  some  of  our 
receipts  do  differ  a  little  from  those  in  former  cookery  books, 
let  it  be  remembered  we  have  advanced  nothing  in  this  work 
that  has  not  been  tried,  and  experience  has  proved  correct. 

N.B.  See  No.  483,  an  ingemous  and  economical  system 
of  French  cookery,  written  at  the  request  of  the  editor  by 
an  accomplished  English  lady,  whicn  will  teach  you  how 
to  supply  your  table  with  elegant  little  made  dishes,  &c.  at 
as  little  expense  as  plain  cookery. 


TXE 


COOK'S  ORACUa* 


>■  ■! 


BOILQie. 
[Setd  tbe  flzvt  ehftptet  of  ttie  Eudlmenta  of  Oook^rjr.] 

I.<^  of  Mutton.-^No.  1.) 

Cut  ofT  the  ehank  bone,  and  trim  the  knuckle,  put  it  into 
lukewann  water  for  ten  minutes,  wash  it  cl<^an,  cover  it  Mrith 
cold  water,  and  let  it  simmer  very  gently,  and  skim  it  care- 
fully. A  leg  of  nine  pounds  will  take  two  and  a  half  or 
three  hours,  if  you  Uke  it  thoroughly  done,  especially  in 
very  cold  weather. 

For  the  accom|>animents,  see  the  following  receipt. 

N.B.  The  UUbttB  with  an  epicure  are  the  "  knuckle,*'  the 
kernel,  called  the  ^papi?s  «y«,'*  and  the  ^  gerUletnan%^^  or 
""Cramp  bone,^  or,  as  it  is  called  in  Kent,  the. "caw caw,** 
four  of  these  and  a  bounder  furnish  the  little  masters  and 
mistresses  of  Kent  with  their  most  favourite  set  of  play- 
things. 

A  leg  of  mutton  stewed  very  tl&mly,  as  we  have  directed 
the  beef  to  be  (No.  493),  will  be  as  agreeable  to  an  English 
appetite  as  the  liamous  ^  gigct*  de  sept  heures"  of  the  French 
kitchen  is  to  a  Parisian  palate. 

When  mutton  is  very  large,  you  may  divide  it,  and  roasi 
iheJUUtf  i.  e.  the  laxge  end,  and  boil  the  hiudde  end ;  you  may 
sdso  cut  some  fine  cutlets  off  the  thick  end  of  the  leg,  and 
so  have  two  or  three,  good  hot  dinners*  See  Mrs.  Maeeitdo's 
receipt  how  to  make  a  leg  of  mutton  last  a  week,  in 
^Uhe  housekeeper's  Ugert^  pnnted  for  Whlttaker,  Ave«Maria 
Lane. 

The  liquor  the  muUon  is  boiled  tn,  you  may  convert  into 
good  soup  in  five  minutes,  (see  N.B.  to  No.  dl8,)  and  Scotch 
barley  broth  (No.  304).  Thus  managed,  a  leg  of  mutton  is 
a  most  economical  joint. 

*  The  giffot  u  tbe  leg  with  part  of  the  lof  n. 

/ 


JVedb  ff  Jlluftofi.— (No.  2.) 

P^i  four  or  ^xe  pounds  of  the  best  end  of  a  neck  (that  has 
been  kept  a  few  days)  into  as  mnch  cold  soft  water  as  win 
cover  it,  and  about  two  inches  over;  let  it  simmer  very 
slowly  for  two  hours :  it  will  look  most  delicate  if  you  .<jto 
iiot  take  off  the  skin  till  it  has  been  boiled. 

For  sauce,  that  elegant  and  innocent  relish,  parsley  and 
butter  (No.  261),  or  eshalot  (No.  294  or  5),  or  caper  sauce 
(No*  974),  mock  caper  sauce  (No.  275),  and  onion  sauce 
(No.  298),  tumii^s  (No.  130),  or  spinage  (No.  121),  are  the 
usual  accompaniments  to  boiled  mutton. 

£am5.'--(No.  3.) 

A  leg  of  five  pounds  should  simmer  veiy  gently  for  about 
two  hours,  from  the  time  it  is  put  on,  in  cold  water.  After 
the  general  rules  for  boiling,  in  the  first  chapter  of  the  Rudi- 
ments of  Cookery,  we  have  nothing  to  add,  only  to  send  up 
with  it  spinage  (No.  122),  broccoU  (No.  186),  cauliflower 
(No.  125),  &c.,  and  for  sauce.  No.  261. 

r«rf.— (No.  4.) 

This  is  expected  to  come  to  table  looking  delicately  clean  t 
and  it  is^so  easily  discoloured,  that  you  mul^t  be  careful  to 
have  clean  water,  a  clean  vessel,  and  constantly  catch  the 
scum  as  soon  and  as  long  as  it  rises,  and  attend  to  the  direc- 
tions before  given  in  the  first  chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of 
Cookery.  Send  up  bacon  (No.  13),  fried  sausages  (No.  87), 
or  i^ckled  poik,  greens,  (No.  118  and  following  Nos.)  and 
parsley  ^d  butter  (No.  261),  onion  sauce  (No.  298). 

N.B.  For  receipts  to  cook  veal,  see  from  No.  512  to  No.: 
521* 

Beef  6<mittt,— (No.  5.) 

• .  In  plain  Ei^lish,  is  understood  to  mean  boiled  beef;  but 
its  culinary  acceptation,  in  the  French  kitchen,  ii^  fresh  beef 
dressed  without  boiling,  and  only  very  gently  sinunered  by  a 
slow  fire. 

Cooks  have  seldom  any  notion^that  good  soup  can  be  made 
without  destroying  a  great  deal  of  meat ;  however,  by  e 
judicious  reg^ation  oV  the  fire,  and  a  vigilant  attendance  on 
the  soup-kettle,  tMs  may  be  accomplished.  You  shaU  have 
a  tureen  of  such  soup  as  will  satisfy  the  most  fastidious 
palate,  and  the  meat  make  its  appearance  at  table,  at  the 

K 


no  BCmONG. 

same  time,  in  possession  of  a  full  portion  of  nutritious  sac« 
eidence. 

This  requires  nothing  more  than  to  stew  the  meat  very 
slowly  (instead  of  keeping  the  pot  boiling  a  gallop,  as  com- 
mon  cooks  too  conunonly  do),  and  to  take  it  up  as  soqn  as 
it  is  done  enough.  See  "Soup  and  bouilli"  (No.  238), 
"  Shin  of  beef  stewed"  (No.  493),  «  Scotch  barley  broth" 
(No.  304). 

Meat  cooked  in  this  manner  affords  much  more  nourish- 
ment than  it  does  dressed  in  the  common  way,  is  easy  of 
digestion  in  proportion  as  it  is  tender,  and  an  inrigorating, 
substantial  diet,  especially  valuable  to  the  poor,  whose  labo- 
rious employments  require  support. 

If  they  could  get  good  eating  put  within  their  jreach,  they 
would  often  go  to  the  butcher's  shop,  when  they  now  run  to 
the  publiT;-house. 

Among  the  variety  of  schemes  that  have  been  suggested 
for  bettering  the  condition  of  the  poor,  a  more  useful  or  ex- 
tensive charity  cannot  be  devised,  than,  that  of  instructing 
them  in  economical  and  comfortable  cookery,  except  pro^* 
viding  them  with  spectacles. 

"The  poor  in  Scotland,  and  on  the  Continent,  manage 
much  better.  Oatmeal  porridge  (Nos.  ^05  and  572)  and 
milk,  constitute  the  breakfast  and  supper  of  those  patterns 
of  industry,  frugality,  and  temperance,  the  Scottish  pea*- 
santry. 

."  When  they  can  afford  iiieat,  they  form  with  it  a  large 
jquantity  of  barley  broth  (No.  204),  with  a  variety  of  vege- 
tables, by  boiling  the  whole  a  long  time,  enough  to  serve  the 
family  for  several  days. 

"When  they  cannot  afford  meat,  they  make  broth  of 
barley  and  other  vegetables,  with  a  lump  of  butter  (see  No. 
229),  all  of  which  they  boil  for  many  hours,  and  this  with 
oat  cakes  forms  their  dinner."  Cochrans's  Seaman^i  Guidef 
p.  34. 

The  cheapest  method  of  making  a  nourishing  soup  is  least 
known  to  those  who  have  most  need  of  it.     (See  No.  229.) 

Our  neighbours  the  French  are  so  justly  famous  for  their 
skill  in  the  affairs  of  the  kitchen,  that  the  adage  says,  "  as 
many  Frenchmen  as  many  cooks :"  surrounded  as  they  are 
by  a  profusion  of  the  most  delicious  wines  and  most  seducing 
liqueurs,  offering  every  temptation  and  facility  to  render 
drunkenness  delightful :  yet  a  tippling  Frenchman  is  a  "  rara 
avis;^^  they  know  how  so  easily  and  completely  to  keep  life 
in  repair  by  good  eating,  that  they  require  little  or  no  adjust^ 
ment  from  dnnking. 


BOIURG.  in 

'  This  accounts  for  that  ^  toners  mi,"  and  happy  equili- 
brium of  spirits,  which  they  enjoy  with  more  reipuarit^jr  tiian 
any  people.  Their  stomach,  being  miinipaired  by  spiritoons 
liquors,  eml^ace  and  digest  vigorously  the  food  they  saga- 
ciously prepare  for  it,  and  render  easily  assimilable  by  cook- 
ing it  sufficiently,  wis^y  contriving  to  get  the  difficult  part  of 
the  work  of  the  stomacn  done  by  fire  and  water. 

To  salt  Afefltf.— (No.  6.) 

In  the  summer  season,  especially,  meat  is  frequently  spoiled 
by  the  cook  forgetting  to  take  out  the  kemek ;  one  m  the 
udder  o^a  round  of  beef,  in  the  fat  in. the  middle  of  the 
round,  those  about  the  thick  end  of  the  flank,  &c. :  if  these 
are  not  taken  out,  all  the  salt  in  the  world  will  not  ke^  the 
meat. 

The  art  of  salting  meat  is  to  rub  in  the  salt  thoroughly 
and  evenly  into  every  part,  and  to  fill  all  the  holes  full  of  salt 
where  the  kernels  were  taken  out,  and  where  Uie  butcherV 
skewers  were. 

A  round  of  beef  of  25  pounds  will  take  a  pound  and 
a  half  of  salt  to  be  rubbed  in  aU  at  first,  and  rejquires  to 
be  turned  and  rubbed  every  day  with  the  brine ;  it  will  be 
ready  for  dressing  in  four  or  five  days,*  if  you  do  not  wish 
it  very  salt. 

In  summer^  the  sooner  meat  is  salted  after  it  is  killed 
the  better ;  and  care  must  be  taken  to  defend  it  from  the  flies. 
.  In  wirUerf  it  will  eat  the  shorter  and  tenderer,  if  kept  a  few 
days  (according  to  the  temperature  of^the  weather)  until  its 
fibre^has  become  short  and  tender,  as  these  changes  do  not 
take^place  after  it  has  been  acted  upon  by  the  salt. 

In  frosty  weather,  take  care  the  meat  is  not  frozen,  and 
warm  the  salt  in  a  frying-pan.  The  extremes  of  heatf  and 
cold  are  equally  unfayourable  for  the  process  of  salting.  In 
the  former,  the  meat  changes  befbre  the  salt  can  affect  it : 
in  the  latter,  it  is  so  hardened,  and  its  juices  are  so  congealed, 
that  the  salt  cannot  penetrate  it. 

If  you  wish  it  red,  rub  it  ^rst  with  saltpetre,  in  the  pro* 
portion  of  half  an  ounce,  and  the  like  quantity  of  moist 
sugar,  to  a  pound  of  common  salt.  (See  Savoury  salt  beef, 
No.  496.)    . 

*  I/not  to  he  cut  till  eoU,  two  days  longer  Baiting  will  not  only  improre  its  flavour,, 
btit  the  meat  will  keep  better.  '  .        - 

t  In  the  Weflt  Indies  tliey  can  seaicely  cure  beef  with  pieklOj  bat  easily  imweiya 
it  by  cutting  it  into  thin  slicies  and  dipping  tliem  in  sea-water,  and  tben  dtying'^theiB 
quiclcly  in  the  sun ;  to  which  they  give  the  name  of  jerked  6ee/.— BaowMRicwr  mi 
J$a;(»8vo  p.763. 


lis  BOfUKO. 

Yon  may  impregfnate  meat  with  a  very  agreeable  yegetable 
fiavDuryby  poundmg  some  street  i  herbs  (No*  459,)  and  "an 
oiii<m  with  the  salt*  You  may  make  it  still  more  relishing 
by  adding  a  little  xbst  (No.  355),  or  tavoury  apice  (No.  457). 

To  pickle  MetU. 

**•  Six  pommels  of  salt,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  four  ounces 
of  saltpetre,  boiled  with  four  gallons  of  water,  skimmed,  and 
sdlowed  to  cool,  forms  a  very  strong  pickle,  which  will  pre* 
serve  any  meat  completely  immersed  in  it.  To  effect  this, 
which  is  essential,  either  a  heavy  board  or  a  flat  stone  must 
be  laid  upon  the  meat.  The  same  pickle  may  be  used  re- 
peatedly, provided  it  be  boiled  up  occasionally  with  additional 
salt  to  restore  its  strength,  diminished  by  the  combination 
of  part  of  the  salt  with  the  meat,  and  by  the  dilution  of  the 
pickle  by  the  juices  of  the  meat  extracted. '  By  boiling,  the  . 
albumen,  which  would  cause  the  pickle  to  spoil,  is  coagu- 
lated, and  rises  in  the  fonn  of  scum,  which  must  be  care- 
fully removed." — See  SupplemerU  to  Encydop.  Britan,  voi. 
iv.  p.  340. 

Meat  kept  immersed  in  pickle  gains  weight.  In  one  expe- 
riment by  Messrs.  Donkin  and  Gamble,  there  was  a  gain  of 
three  per  cent.,  and  in  another  of  iwo  and  a  half;  but  in  the 
common  way  of  salting,  when  the  meat  is  not  immersed  in 
pickle,  there  is  a  loss  of  about  one  pound,  or  one  and  a  half, 
in  sixteen.  See  Dr.  Wilkinson's  account  of  the  preserving 
power  of  PTRO-U6NEOUS  Acm,  &c.  in  the  Philosophical  Maga- 
zine for  1831,  No.  373,  p.  13. 

An  H-bone  of  10  or  13  pounds  weight  will  require  about 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  salt,  ana  an  ounce  of  moist 
sugar,  to  be  well  rubbed  into  it*  It  will  be  ready  in  four  or 
five  days,  if  turned  and  rubbed  every  day. 

The  time,  meat  requires  salting  depends  upon  the  weight 
of  it,  and  how  much  salt  is  used :  and  if  it  be  rubbed  in  with 
a  heavy  hand,  it  will  be  ready  much  sooner  than  if  only 
lightly  rubbed. 

N.  B.  Dry  the  Salt^  and  rub  it  with  the  sugar. in  a  mortar^ 

Pork  requires  a  longer  time  to  cure  (in  proportion  to  its 
weight)  thsin  beef.  A  leg  of  pork  should  be  in  salt  eight  or 
ten  days ;  turn  it  and  rub  it  every  day. 

Salt  meat  should  be  well  washed  before  it  is  boiled,  espe- 
cially if  it  has  been  in  salt  long,  that  the  liquor  in  which  the 
meat  is  boiled,  may  not  be  tpo  salt  to  make  soup  of.  (No. 
218,  &c.  and  No.  555.) 

If  it  has  been  in  salt  a  long  time,  and  you  fear  that  it  wiU 


113 

be  loo  salt,  urath  it  well  in  cold  waier,  and  aoak  it  inlnke* 
warm  water  for  a  coirole  of  hours.  If  it  is  very  moM^  lay  it 
in  water  the  night  befere  yon  intend  to  dreas  it. 

A  Rmmd  if  ndud  Be^— (No.  7.) 

As  this  is  too  large  for  a  moderate  family,  we  shall  write 
directions  for  the  dressing  half  a  round.    Get  the  tongue  side. 

Skewer  it  up  tight  and  round,  and  tie  a  fillet  of  broad  tape 
round  it,  to  keep  the  skewers  in  their  places. 

Put  it  into  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  carefully  catch  the 
scum  as  soon  as  it  rises :  let  it  boU  till  all  the  scum  is  re- 
moved, and  then  put  the  boiler  on  one  side  of  the  fire,  to  keep 
simmering  slowly  till  it  is  done. 

Half  a  round  of  151bs.  will  take  about  three  hours:  if  it 
weighs  more,  give  it  more  time. 

When  you  take  it  up,  if  any  stray  scum,  Ice.  sticks  to  it 
that  has  escaped  the  vigilance  of  your  skimmer,  wash  it  off 
with  a  paste-brush:  garnish  the  dishes  with  carrots  and 
turnips.  Send  up  carrots  (No.  139),  turnips  (No.  130),  and 
parsnips,  or  greens  (No.  1 18),  &c.  on  separate  dishes.  Pease 
pudding  (No.  556),  and  mt  puddino  (No.  561),  are  all  very 
proper  accompaniments. 

N.B.  The  outside  slices,  which  are  generally  too  much 
salted  and  too  much  boiled,  will  make  a  very  ^[dod  relish  as 
potted  beef  (No.  503).  For  using  up  the  remains  of  a  joint 
of  boiled  beef,  se^  also  Bubble  and  Squeak  (No.  505). 

H'Bone  of  Bsa^— (No.  8.) 

Is  to  be  managed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  the  vomuU 
but  will  be  sooner  boiled,  as  it  is  not  so  solid.  An  H-bone 
of  SOlbs.  will  be  done  enough  in  about  four  hours ;  of  lOlba. 
in  thr^  hours,  more  or  less,  as  the  weather  is  hotter  or 
colder.  Be  sure  the  boiler  is  big  enough  to  allow  it  plenty 
of  water*room:  let  it  be  well  covered  with  water:  set  the 
pot  on  one  side  of  the  fire  to  boil  gently :  if  it  boils  quick  at 
first,  no  art  can  make  it  tender  aner.  The  slower  it  boils, 
the  better  it  will  look,  and  the  tenderer  it  will  be.  The  same 
accompanying  vegetables  as  isk  the  preceding  receipt  Dress 
plenty  of  carrots,  as  cold  carrots  are  a  general  favourite  wiHi 
cold  beef. 

Afem.— Epicures  say,  that  the  iojU  fat-like  marrow,  which 
lies  on  the  back,  is  delicious  when  not,  and  the  hard  fat  about 
the  upper  comer  is  best  when  cold. 

To  make  pertsctlt  eoon  pease  soup  in  ten  minutes^  of 

Ka 


114  BoaxsiQ. 

the  liquor  in  which  the  beef  has  been  boiled,  «ee  N.B^  to 
No.  318. 

Obs. — In  ''Mrs.  Mason's  Ladies'  Assistant/'  this  joint  is 
called  haunch4>one ;  in  ^  Henderson's  Cookery,"  edgre-bone ; 
in  ''Domestic  Managrement,"  aitch-bone;  in  "Reynold's 
Cookery,"  ische-bone;  in  "Mrs.  Lydia  Fisher's  Prudent 
Housewife,"  ach-bone ;  in  "  Mrs.  M'lver's  Cookery,"  hook- 
bone.  We  have  also  seen  it  spelled  each-bone  and  ridge- 
bone  ;  and  we  have  also  heard  it  called  natch-bone. 

N.B.  Read  the  note  under  No.  7 ;  and  to  make  perfectly 
good  pease  soup  of  the  pot-liquor,  in  ten  minutes,  see  Obs. 
to  No*  318,  No.  239,  and  No.  555. 

Ribs  of  Beef  salted  and  rolled. — (No.  9.) 

Briskets,  and  the  various  other  pieces,  are  dressed  in  tlie 
same  way.  "  Wow-wow"  sauce  (No.  328,)  is  an  agreeable 
companion. 

Hdf  a  Coifs  Head.— (No.  lOi) 

Cut  it  in  two,  apd  take  out  the  brains :  wash  the  head  well 
in  several  waters,  and  soak  it  in  warm  water  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  before  you  dress  it.  Put  the  head  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  plenty  of  cold  water :  when  it  is  coming  to  a  boD, 
and  the  scum  rises,  carefully  remove  it. 

Half  a  calfs  head  (without  the  skin)  will  take  from  an 
hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours  and  a  quarter,  according  to  its 
size;  with  the  skin  on,  about  an  hour  longer.  It  must  be 
stewed  very  gendv  till  it  is  tender :  it  is  then  extremely  nutri- 
tive, ^nd  easy  of  digestion. 

Put  eight  or  ten  sc^  leaves  (some  cooks  use  parsley 
instead,  or  equal  parts  of  each)  into  a  small  sauce-pan :  boil 
them  tender  (about  half  an  hour) ;  then  chop  diem- very  fine, 
and  set  them  ready  on  a  plate. 

Wash  the  brains  well  in  two  waters ;  put  them  into  a  large 
basin  of  cold  water,  with  .a  little  salt  in  it,  and  let  them  soak 
for  an  hour ;  then  pour  away  the  cold,  and  cover  them  with 
hot  water ;  and  when  you  have  cleaned  and  skinned  them, 
put  them  mto  a  stew-pan  with  plenty  of  cold  water :  when 
it  boils,  take  the  scum  off  very,  carefully,  and  boil  gently  for 
10  or  15  minutes :  now  chop  tiiem  (not  very  fine) ;  put  them 
into  a  sauce-pan  with  the  sage  leaves  and  a  couple  of  table- 
spoonsful  of  thin  melted  butter,  and  a  little  salt  (to  this  some 
cooks  add  a  little  lemon-juice),  and  stir  them  well  together ; 
and  as  soon  as  they  are  well  warmed  (take  care  they  don't 


BOOIKG.  1 15 

bum),  skiR  the  ton^e,*  trim  off  the  roots,  and  pat  it  in  the 
midcUe  of  a  dish,  and  the  brains  round  it:  or»  chop  the 
brains  with  an  eschalot,  a  little  parsley,  and  four  hardrboiled 
egfgs,  and  put  them  into  a  quarter  of  a  {Mnt  of  bechamel,  or 
wlute  sauce  (No.  3  of  364) .  A  calPs  cheek  is  usually  attended 
by  a  pig's  cheek,  a  knuckle  of  ham  or  bacon  (No.  13,  or  No. 
526),  or  pickled  pork.^No.  11),  and  greens,  broccoli,  cauli- 
flowers,- or  pease ;  ana  always  by  parsley  and  butter  (see 
No.  261,  No.  311,  or  No.  343). 

If  you  like  it  full  dressed,  score  it  superficially,  beat  up 
the  yelk  of  an  egg,  and  rub  it  over  the  head  with  a  feather ; 
powder  it  with  a  seasoning  of  finely  minced  (or  dried  and 
powdered)  winter  savoury  or  lemon-thyme  (or  sage),  pars- 
ley, pepper,  and  salt,  and  bread  crumbs,  and  give  it  a  brown 
with  a  salamander,  or  in  a  tin  Dutch  oven :  when  it  begins 
to  dry,  sprinkle  a  little  melted  butter  over  it  with  a  paste- 
brush. 

You  may  garnish  the  dish^th  broiled  rashers  of  bacon 
(No.  526  or  527). 

06^. — Calfs  head  is  one  of  the  most  delicate  and  favourite 
dishes  in  the  list  of  boiled  meats;  but  nothing  is  more 
insipid  when  cold,  and  nothing  makes  so  nice  a  hash;  there- 
fore donH  forget  to  save  a  quart  of  the  liquor  it  was  boiled 
in  to  make  sauce,  &c.  for  the  hash  (see  also  No.  520). 
Cut  the  head  and  tongue  into  slices,  trim  them  neatly,  and 
leave  out  the  gristles  and  fat ;  and  slice  some  of  the  bacon 
that  was  dressed  to  eat  with  Uie  head,  and  warm  them  in 
the  hash. 

Take  the  bones  and  the  trimmings  of  the  head,  a  bundle 
of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion,  a  roll  of  lemon-peel,  and  a  blade 
of  bruised  mace :  put  these  into  a  sauce-pan  with  the  quart 
of  li(|uor  you  have  saved,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  an  hour ; 
pour  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  washout  your  stew-pan, 
add  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  to  the  brains  and  parsley  and 
butter  you  have  left,  and  pour  it  into  the  gravy  you  have  made 
with  the  bones  and  trinmiings ;  let  it  boil  up  for  ten  minutes, 
and  then  strain  it  through  a  hair-sieve;  season  it  with  a 
table-spoonful  of  white  wine,  or  of  catchup  (No.  439),  or 
sauce  superlative  (No.  429) :  give  it  a  boil  up,  skim  it,  and 
then  put  in  the  brains  and  the  slices  of  head  and  baccm ;  as 
soon  as  they  are  thoroughly  warm  (it  must  not  boil)  the  hash 
is  ready.  Some  cooks  eggj  bread-crumb,  and  fry  the  finest 
pieces  of  the  head,  and  lay  them  round  the  hash. 

N«B.  You  may  garnish  the  edges  of  the  dish  with  slices 

*  Thlf,  satteij  makes  a  very  pretty  wappes-dith. 


116  BOIUNO* 

of  bacon  toasted  in  a  Dutch  oven  (see  Nos«  636  and  Sd?), 
slices  of  lemon  and  fried  bread. 
To  make  gt9,yj  for  hashes,  &c,  see  No.  360. 

PidUcd  Fori,- (No.  11.) 

Takes  more  time  than  any  other  meat.  If  you  buy  your 
poik  ready  salted,  ask  how  many  days  it  has  been  in  salt ; 
if  many,  it  will  require  to  be  soaked  in  water  for  six  hours 
before  you  dress  it.  When  you  cook  it,  wash  and  scrape  it 
as  clean  as  possible ;  when  delicately  dressed,  it  is  a  favourite 
dish  with  aumost  every  body.  Take  care  it  does  not  boil 
fast ;  if  it  does,  the  knuckle  will  break  to  pieces,  before  the 
thick  part  of  the  meat  is  warm  through ;  a  leg  of  seven 

gounds  takes  three  hours  and  a  half  very  slow  simmering, 
kim  your  pot  very  carefully,  and  when  you  take  the  meat 
out  of  the  boiler,  scrape  it  clean. 

Some  sagacious  cooks  (who  remember  to  how  many  more 
nature  has  given  eyes  than  she  has  given  tongues  and  brains), 
when  pork  is  boiled,  score  it  in  diamonds,  and  take  out  every 
other  square ;  and  thus  present  a  retainer  to  the  eye  to  plead 
for  them  to  the  palate;  but  this  is  pleasing  the  eye  at  the 
expense  of  the  palate.  A  leg  of  nice  pork,  nicely  salted*  and 
nicely  boiled,  is  as  nice  a  cold  relish  as  cold  hatn ;  especially 
if,  instead  of  cutting  into  the  middle  when  hot,  and  so  letting 
oot  its  juices,  you  cut  it  at  the  knuckle :  slices  broiled,  as 
No.  487,  are  a  good  luncheon,  or  supper.  To  make  pease 
pudding,  and  pease  soup  extempore,  see  N.B.  to  Nos.  318 
and  555. 

Mem. — Some  persons  who  sell  pork  ready  salted  have  a 
silly  trick  o(  cutting  the  knuckle  in  two ;  we  suppose  that 
this  is  done  to  save  their  salt;  but  it  lets  all  the  gravy  out 
of  the  legr;  and  unless  you  boil  your  pork  merely  for  the 
sake  of  the  not-liquor,  which  in  this  case  receives  all  the 
goodness  and  strength  of  the  meat,  friendly  reader,  your 
oracle  cautions  you  to  buy  no  leg  of  pork  which  is  slit  at  the 
knuckle. 

If  pork  is  not  done  enough,  nothing  is  more  disagreeable ; 
if  too  much,  it  not  only  loses  its  colour  and  flavour,  but  its 
substance  becomes  soft  like  a  jelly. 

It  must  never  appear  at  table  without  agood  pease  pudding 
(see  No.  665),  and,  if  you  please,  parsnips  (No.  138) ;  they 
are  an  exceUent  vegetable,  and  deserve  to  be  much  more 
popular;  or  carrots  (No.  139),  turnips,  and  greens, or  mashed 
potatoes,  &c.  (No.  106.) 

Obt, — ^Remember  not  to  forget  the  mustard-pot  (No.  369, 
No,  370.  and  No,  437). 


[ 


BOIUNO*  lit 

PeUitoes,  or  Sucking-Pig's  F€«<.— (No.  19.) 


Put  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan  with 
dome  broth,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  few  pepper-corns,  and  a  bit 
of  thyme;  boil  the  feet  till  they  are  quite  tender;  this  will 
take  full  twenty  minutes ;  but  the  heart,  liver,  and  lights  will 
be  done  enougfh  in  ten,  when  they  are  to  be  taken  out,  and 
minced  fine. 

Put  them  all  together  into  a  stew-pan  with  some  gravy; 
thicken  it  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  season  it  with  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  to  simmer 
for  five  minutes,  frequently  shaking  them  about. 

While  this  is  doing,  have  a  thin  slice  of  bread  toasted  very 
lightly ;  divide  it  into  sippets,  and  lay  them  roond  the  dish: 
pour  the  mince  and  sauce  into  the  middle  of  it,  and  split  the 
feet,  and  lay  them  round  it. 

N.B.  Pettitoes  are  sometimes  boiled  and  dipped  in  batter, 
and  fried  a  light  brown. 

Obs. — ^If  you  have  no  gravy,  put  into  the  water  you 
6tew  the  pettitoes  in  an  onion,  a  sprig  of  lemon  thyme,  or 
sweet  marjoram,  with  a  blade  of  bruised  mace,  a  few  black 
peppers,  and  a  large  tea-spoonful  of  mushroom  catchup 
(No.  439),  and  you  will  have  a  very  tolerable  substitute 
for  gravy.  A  bit  of  No.  263  will  be  a  very  great  improve- 
ment to  it. 

Bacon.— (No..  13.) 

Cover  a  pound  of  nice  streaked  bacon  (as  the  Hampshire 
iiousewives  say,  thitt  ^  has  been  starved  one  day,  and  fed 
another")  with  cold  water,  let  it  boil  gently  for  three-auarters 
of  an  hour;  take  it  up,  scrape  the  under-side  well,  ana  cut  off 
the  hnd :  grate  a  crust  of  bread  not  only  on  the  top,  but  all 
over  it,  as  directed  for  the  ham  in  the  following  receipt,  and 
put  it  before  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes :  it  must  not  be  there 
too  long,  or  it  will  dry  it  and  spoil  it. 

Two  pounds  will  require  about  an  hour  and  a  hali^  accord-  • 
ing  to  its  thickness ;  the  hock  or  gammon  being  very  thick, 
Avill  take  more. 

Obs, — See  Nos.  526  and  527 :  when  only  a  little  bacon  is 
wanted,  these  are  the  best  ways  of  dressing  it. 

The  boiling  of  bacon  is  a  very  simple  subject  to  conunent 
upon ;  but  our  main  object  is  to  teach  common  cooks  the 
art  of  dressing  common  food  in  the  best  manner. 

Bacon  is  sometimes  as  salt  as  salt  can  make  it,  therefore 
before  it  is  boiled  it  must  be  soaked  in  warm  water  for  an 


1 18  BOILUVG. 

hour  or  two,  changing^  the  water  once ;  then  pare  off  the 
rusty  and  smoked  part,  trim  it  nicely  on  the  under  side,  and 
scrape  the  rind  as  clean  as  possible. 

MEM.-*^Bacon  is  an  extravagant  article  in  housekeeping ; 
there  is  often  twice  as  much  mressed  as  need  be :  when  it  is 
sent  to  table  as  an  accompaniment  to  boiled  poultry  or  vesd, 
a  poimd  and  a  half  is  plenty  for  a  dozen  peofde.  A  good 
German  sausage  is  a  very  economical  substitute  for  bacon ; 
or  fried  pork  sausages  (No.  87). 

Hamj  (No.  14.) 

Hiough  of  the  bacon  kind,  has  been  so  altered  and  hardened 
in  the  curing,  that  it  requires  still  more  care. 

Ham  is  generally  not  half-soaked ;  asr  43alt  as  brine,  and 
hard  as  flint ;  and  it  would  puzzle  the  stomach  of  an  ostrich 
to  digest  it. 

Mem. — ^The  salt,  seasoning,  and  smoke,  which  preserve  it 
before  it  is  eaten, prevent  its  solution  after;  and  unless  it  be 
very  long  and  very  gently  stewed,  the  strongest  stomach 
will  have  a  tough  job  to  extract  any  nourislmient  from  it. 
If  it  is  a  very  d^  Westphalia  ham,  it  must  be  soaked,  ac- 
cording to  its  age  and  thickness,  from  12  to  34  hours ;  for  a 
green  Yorkshire  or  Westmoreland  ham,  from  four  to  eight 
hours  will  be  sufficient.  Lukewarm  water  will  soften  it 
much  sooner  than  cold,  when  sufficiently  soaked,  trim  it 
nicely  on  the  underside,  and  pare  off  all  the  rusty  and  smoked 
parts  till  it  looks  delicately  clean. 

lb.    ot. 

A  ham  weighed  before  it  was  soaked    13 

After 13    4 

Boiled 13    4 

Grimmed  for  table 10  13 

Give  it  plenty  of  water-room,  and  put  it  in  while  the  water 
is  cold;  let  it  heat  very  gradually,  and  let  it  be  on  the  fire  an 
hour  and  a  half  before  it  comes  to  aboil;  let  it  be  well 
skimmed,  and  keep  it  simmering  very  gently :  a  middling- 
sized  ham  of  fifteen  pounds  will  be  done  enough  in  about 
four  or  five  hours,  according  to  its  thickness. 

If  not  to  be  cut  till  cold,  it  will  cut  the  shorter  and  tenderer 
for  being  boiled  about  half  an  hour  longer.  In  a  very  small 
family,  where  a  ham  will  last  a  week  or  ten  days^  it  is  best 
economy  not  to  cut  it  till  it  is  cold,  it  will  be  infinitely  more 
juicy. 

Pull  off  the  skin  carefully,  and  preserve  it  as  whole  as  pos- 
sible; it  will  form  an  excellent  covering  to  keep  the  nam 


r  • 


f 


mnuse.  119 


moist ;  when  you  have  femored  the  skin,  rub  some  bread 
raspings  through  a  hair-sieye»  or  grate  a  crust  of  teead ;  put 
it  into  the  perforated  cover  of  thedredging-box,  and  shake 
it  over  it,  or  glaze  it ;  trim  the  knuckle  wiUi  a  fringe  of  cut 
writing-paper.  You  may  ganiish  with  spinage  or  tur- 
nips, £e. 

Obs.  To  pot  ham  (No.  509),  is  a  much  more  useful  and 
economical  way  of  disposing  of  the  remains  of  the  joint, 
than  making  essence  of  it  (No.  363).  To  make  soup  of  the 
liquor  it  is  boiled  in,  see  N.B.  to  No.  555. 

Tbngw.— (No.  15.) 

A  tongue  is  so  hard,  whether  prepared  by  drying  or  pick- 
ling, that  it  requires  much  more  cooking  than  a  ham ;  nothing 
of  Its  weight  takes  so  long  to  dress  it  propeHy* 

A  tongue  that  has  been  salted  and  dried  should  be  pot  to 
soak  (if  it  is  old  and  very  hard,  24  hours  before  it  is  wanted) 
in  plenty  of  water;  a  green  one  fresh  from  the  pickle  re- 
quires soaking  only  a  few  hours :  put  your  tongue  into  plenty 
of  cold  water ;  let  it  be  an  hour  gradually  warming ;  and 
give  it  from  three  and  a  half  to  four  hours'  very  slow  sim- 
mering, according  to  the  size,  &c. 

Obs.  When  you  choose  a  tongue,  endeavour  to  learn  how 
long  it  has  been  dried  or  pickled,  pick  out  the  plumpest,  and 
that  which  has  the  smoothest  skin,  which  denotes  its  being 
young  and  tender. 

The  roots,  &c.  make  an  excellent  relish  potted,  like  No. 
509,  or  pease  soup  (No.  218). 

N.B.  Our  correspondent,  who  wished  us,  in  this  edition, 
to  give  a  receipt  to  roast  a  tongue,  will  find  an  answer  in 
No.  82. 

T\trkey8,  Capons^  Fowbj  Chickens^  ^c. — (No.  16.) 

Are  all  boiled  exactly  in  the  same  manner,  only  allowing 
time,  according  to  their  size.  For  the  stuffing,  &c.  (Nos. 
374, 375,  and  377),  some  of  it  made  into  balls,  and  boiled  or 
fried,  make  a  nice  garnish,  and  are  handy  to  help;  and  you 
can  then  reserve  some  of  the  inside  stuffing  to  eat  with  the 
cold  fowl,  or  enrich  the  hash  (Nos.  530  and  533). 

A  chicken  will  take  about 20  minutes. 

A  fowl 40 

A  fine  five-toed  fowl  or  a  capon,  about  an  hour. 

A  small  turkey,  an  hour  and  a  half. 

A  large  one,  two  hours  or  more. 


OhickeM  f»  fowls  should  be  killed  at  least  one  or  two  days 
before  they  are  to  be  dressed. 

Turkeys  (especially  large  ones)  should  not  be  dressed  till 
they  have  been  killed  three  or  four  days  at  least,  in  eold 
weather  six  or  eight,  or  they  will  neither  look  white  nor  eat 
tender.* 

Turkey  and  large  fowls,  should  have  the  strings  or  sinews  -  ^ 

of  the  thiffhs  drawn  oiit.  ^ 

Truss  them  with  the  legs  outward,  they  are  much  easier 
carved. 

Fowls  for  boiling  should  be  chosen  as  white  as  possible ;  | 

if  their  complexion  is  not  so  fair  as  you  wish,  veil  them  in  j 

No.  2  of  No.  361 ;  those  which  have  black  legs  should  be  i 

roasted.    Hie  best  use  of  the  liver  is  to  make  sauce  (No. 
887). 

Poultry  must  be  well  washed  in  warm  water;  if  very 
dirty  from  the  singeing,  &c.  rub  them  with  a  little  white 
soap ;  but  thorougUy  rinse  it  off,  before  you  put  them  into 
the  pot. 

Make  a  good  and  clear  fire ;  set  on  a  clean  pot,  with  pure 
and  clean  water,  enough  to  well  cover  the  turkey,  &c. ;  Uie 
slower  it  boils,  the  wniter  and  plumper  it  will  be.  When 
there  rises  any  scum,  remove  it ;  the  common  method  of 
some  (who  are  more  nice  than  wise)  is  to  wrap  them  up  in 
a  cloth,  to  prevent  the  scum  attaching  to  them;  which,  if 
it  does,  by  your  neglecting  to  skim  the  pot,  there  is  no  get- 
ting it  off  afterward,  and  the  poulterer  is  blamed  for  the 
faiSt  of  the  cook. 

If  there  be  water  enough,  and  it  is  attentively  skimmed, 
the  fowl  will  both  look  and  eat  much  better  this  way  than 
when  it  has  been  covered  up  in  the  cleanest  cloth,  and  the 
colour  and  flavour  of  your  poultry  will  be  preserved  in  the 
most  delicate  perfection. 

Obs.  Turkey  deserves  to  be  accompanied  by  tongue  (No. 
15),  or  ham  (No.  14) ;  if  these  are  not  come-at-able,  don't 
forget  pickled  pork  (No.  11),  or  bacon  and  greens  (Nos.  83, 
526,  and  527),  or  porx  sausages  (No.  87),  parsley  and  butter 
(No.  261) ;  don't  pour  it  over,  but  send  it  up  in  a  boat ;  liver 
(No.  287),  egg  (No.  267),  or  oyster  sauce  (No.  278).  To  ' 
warm  6old  turkey,  &c.  see  No.  533,  and  following. 

To  grill  the  gizzard  and  rump.  No.  538.    Save  a  quart  of 

*  Baker,  in  bia  Ctaronide,  telle  us  the  turkey  did  not  reach  England  till  A.  D.  1534. 
about  the  15th  of  Henry  the  8th ;  he  says, 

*'  TVrib'M,  carps,  homes,  piccarell,  and  beerc, 
Came  into  Enflana  allln  one  year.* 


IK1ILIV0.  Itl 

the  liqnot  the  turkey  was  boiled  in;  thifl,  with  the  Ixmw  and 
.tiianmngs,  4^.  will  make  good  gravy  for  a  hash,.  dte« 

RabbUa.^No.  17.) 

Trass  your  rabbits  short,  lay  them  in  a  basin  of  warm 
water  for  ten  minutes,  then  put  them  into  plenty  of  water, 
and  boil  th^m  about  half  an  hour ;  if  large  ones,  throe 
quarters ;  if  very  old,  an  hour :  smother  them  with  plenty  of 
white  onion  sauce  (No.  d98),  mince  the  liver,  and  lay  it 
round  the  dish,  or  make  liver  sauce  (No.  287),  and  send  it 
up  in  a  boat. 

Obs.  Ask  thotee  you  are  going  to  make  liver  sauce  for,  if 
they  like  0ain  liver  sauce,  or  liver  and  parsley,  or  liver  and 
lemon  sauce  (Nos.  387  and  388). 

N.B.  It  win  save  much  trouble  to  the  carver,  if  the  rabbits 
l>e  cut  up  in  the  kitchen  into  pieces  fit  to  help  at  table,  and 
the  heaa  divided,  one-half  laid  at  each  end,  and  slices  of 
iemon  and  the  liver,  chopped  veiy  finely,  laid  on  the  sides  of 
the  dish. 

At  all  events,  cut  off  the  head  before  you  send  it  to  table, 
we  hardly  remember  that  the  thing  ever  uved  if  we  don't  see 
the  head,  while  it  may  excite  ugly  ideas  to  see  it  cut  upin 
an  attitude  imitative  of  life ;  besides,  for  the  preservation  of 
the  head,  the  poor  animal  sometimes  suffers  a  slower  deaths 

7V^.— (No.  18.) 

^ake  care  to  have  fresh  tripe ;  cleanse  it  w^ll  from  the  fat, 
and  cut  it  into  pieces  about  two  inches  broad  and  four  long ; 
put  it  into  a  stew^iMuo,  and  cover  it  with  milk  and  water,  and 
let  it  boU  gently  till  it  is  tender. 

If  the  tripe  has  been  prepu^Bd  as  it  usually  is  at  the  tripe 
shops,  it  will  be  enough  in  about  an  hour,  (tiiis  depends  upon 
how  long  it  has  been  previously  boiled  at  the  tripe  shop) ;  if 
entirely  undressed,  it  will  require  two  or  three  hours,  accord- 
ing to  the  age  and  quality  of  it. 

Make  some  onion  sauce  in  the  same  manner  as  you  do  for 
rabbits  (No.  398),  or  boil  (slowly  by  themselves)  some  Spa* 
nish  or  the  whitest  conunon  onions  you  can  get ;  peel  tbem 
before  you  boil  them;  when  they  are  tend^,  whidi  a  mid- 
dlmg-sized  onion  will  be  in  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
drain  item  in  a  hair-sieve,  take  off  the  top  skins  till  they 
look  nice  and  white,  and  put  them  with  the  tripe  intoa  turse% 
or  soup-dish,  and  take  off  the  fat  if  any  floats  on  the  surface* 

Obs,  Rashers  of  bacon  (Nos.  536  and  537),  or  fried  sau- 
sages (No.  87),  are  a  veiy  good  accompaniment  to  boiled 


122  BOASTING. 

tripe,  cow-heel0  (No.  198),  or  calf's  feet,  see  Mr*  MicW 
Kelly's  sauce  (No.  311*),  or  parsley  and  butter  (No.  261), 
or  caper  sauce  (No.  374),  with  a  little  vinegar  and  mustard 
added  to  them,  or  salad  mixture  (No.  372  or  453). 

Tripe  holds  the  same  rank  among  solids,  that  water- 
miel  does  amonff  soups,  and  the  former  is  desirable  at 
dinner,  when  the  latter  is  welcome  at  supper.  Read  No. 
572. 

Ow-flfeef,— (No.  18.») 

In  the  hands  of  a  skilful  cook,  will  furnish  several  good 
meals ;  when  boiled  tender  (No.  198),  cut  it  into  handsokne 
pieces,  egg  and  bread-crumb  tnem,  and  fry  them  a  light  brown ; 
Ia}r  them  round  a  dish,  and  put  in  the  middle  of  it  sliced 
onions  fried,  or  the  accompamments  ordered  for  tripe.  The 
liquor  they  were  boiled  in  will  make  soups  (No.  229,  240*, 
or  No.  555). 

N.B.  We  give  no  receipts  to  boil  venison,  geese,  ducks, 
pheasants,  woodcocks,  and  peacocks,  &c.  as  our  aim  has 
been  to  make  a  useful  book,  not  a  big  one  (see  No.  82). 


ROASTING. 

N.B.~^  tke  time  we  kw9  aUowed  far  renting  afpe»i  ratker  Umger  thoM  w&«< 
i$  BtaUd  m  former  leorke^  we  eoH  enl^f  «ayi  wehane  written  from  txtmu  esfoHmente, 
4mi  tket  tke  HWeremee  may  he  meeowUedforj  hf  common  cooke  genereUff  being  fend 
of  toof/one  nfire,  and  effutUng  tkinge  too  near  to  it. 
.    Our  eeknloHene  are  made  for  a  tei^^atwre  of  about  Jfftiji  degrees  of  F)akrenkeit. 

Slow  ro astimo  ie  ae  adoantageoue  to  the  tendemeee  tmddavour  of  meat  ae  elow 
boHingf  of  leAie*  every  body  underetande  tke  iniportaanee.  See  tke  aeenaU  of  Count 
Itumfor^e  ekoulder  of  mutton. 

Tke  warmer  tke  weatkoTt  and  tke  etaler  kiUed  tke  meat  i«,  tke  tees  time  it  will  re- 
pure  to  roaet  it. 

Meat  tkat  ie  verffat,  requlrw  mom  time  than  we  have  staled. 

Bssr  ie  in  fn^er  eeaeon  tkrougkout  tke  whole  year. 

SirUnn  of  Be«/--(No.  19.) 

The  noble  sirioin*  of  about  fifteen  pounds  (if  much 
thicker,  the  outside  will  be  done  too  much  before  the  inside 
is  enough),  will  require  to  be  before  the  fire  about  three  and 
a  half  or  four  lM>urs ;  take  care  to  spit  it  evenly,  that  it  may 

*  Thto  Joiiit  ii  said  to  owe  ite  name  to  Ung  Charles  the  Second,  who,  diniaff  upon 
«  Mn  of  Decf,  and  being  particularly  pleaaed  with  it,  aslced  the  name  of  the  joiut ; 
saM  for  it*  merit  It  should  be  knigkted,  and  henceforth  called  Str-Loin. 


SOASTING.  129 

3M>t  be  heavier  on .  one  side  than  the  other ;  put  a  little  clean 
dripping  into  the  dripping-pan,  (tie  a  sheet  of  paper  over  *  it 
to  preserve  the  fat,*}  baste  it  well  as  soon  as  it  is  put  down, 
and  every  quarter  or  an  hour  all  the  time  it  is  roasting,  till 
the  last  half  hour;  then  take  off  the  paper,  and  make  some 
gravy  for  it  (No.  336) ;  stir  the  fire  and  make  it  clear:  to 
brown  and  froth  it,  sprmkle  a  little  salt  over  it,  baste  it  with 
butter,  and  dredge  it  with  flour;  let  it  go  a  few  minutes 
longer,  till  the  froth  rises,  take  it  up,  put  it  on  the  dish,  &c. 

Garnish  it  with  hillocks  of  horseradish,  scraped  as  fine  as 
possible  with  a  very  shhrp  knife,  (Nos.  458  and  399*).  A 
Yorkshire  pudding  is  an  excellent  accompaniment  (No.  595, 
or  No.  554). 

Obs.  The  inside  of  the  sirloin  must  never  be  cutf  hot,  but 
reserved  entire  for  the  hash,  or  a  mock  hare  (No.  67*).  (For 
various  way^s  of  dressing  the  inside  of  the  sirloin,  Na  483 ; 
for  the  receipt  to  hash  or  l>roil  beef.  No.  484,  and  Nos.  486 
and  487;  and  for  other  ways  of  employing  the  remains  of  a 
joint  of  cold  beef,  Nos,  503, 4, 5, 6).  <» 

Ribs  ofBuf.'-^No.  30)* 

The  first  three  ribs,  of  fifteen  or  twentv  pounds,  will  take 
three  houra,  or  three  and  a  half :  the  fourth  and  fifth  ribs  will 
take  as  long,  managed  in  the  same  way  as  the  sirloin. 


*  I*  In  Uw  pKMBt  fMkum,  of  rATTBMiKo  CATTLB,  it  iff  iiior»  deainble  to  loaA 
awmr  tbe  fat  tlua  to  preaerve  it  If  the  tionoaiaUe  eodedM  <^  uricoltarifti,  at 
tbe  tune  tluiy  connilted  a  teamed  profom  about  tbp  eompoeition  (x  maBiinB^  liad 
coiunilted  aome  competeat  auttrorioron  tbe  oetuie  of  aolmal  euhitances,  tbe  public 
migiit  have  eacaped  the  oveigrown  corpulency  of  the  aolaial  Ifoh.  whkh  every 
where  flUa  the  marlceca."— />MM»tie  Mmuufmaau^  ISmo.  1813^  p.  VSk 

MGame,  and  other  wild  animala  proper  smt  food,  are  of  veiy  auperlor  qualitlea  10 
the  tamei  firom  the  total  cootieat  of  the  clreamataDcea  attendinc  them.  They  have 
a  free  raage  of  eieiciae  in  the  open  air,  and  chooae  their  own  nod,  the  nod  cSbda 
of  which  are  very  evident  in  a  abort,  delicate  texture  of  flesh,  found  only  In  then. 
Their  juioea  and  flavour  are  more  pure,  and  their  /at,  when  it  is  la  any  degree,  aa 
in  veniaon,  and  aome  otiier  fawtaocea,  diflina  aa  much  ftom  that  of  our /ottad 
animate,  aa  ailver  and  goU  ftom  the  groaaer  metala.  The  aaperiority  of  Wblcb 
MirrroR  and  Scotch  aaar  ia  owing  to  a  similar  cause."— /Md,  p.  150. 

If  there  ia  more  vat  than  you  think  will  be  eaten  with  the  meat,  cat  itolr;  It  wU 
make  an  excellent  puddimo  (No.  554) ;  or  clarify  it,  (No.  84)  and  use  it  fbr  fkyiog: 

r  tboae  who  like  their  meat  done  thoroughly,  and  use  a  moderate  Are  for  rpeatiog, 

e  fkt  need  not  be  covered  with  paper.  _  . 

//  your  hmfU  Urg^  and  your  family  amelli  eot  pfT  the  thin  end  and  aalt  it,  and 
eut  out  and  dreaa  the  fulet  (i.  e.  commonly  ca||(g|«ia  fnalde)  next  day  aa  hook  babs 
(No.  67*) :  thua  you  get  tkreegpad  hot  diwafnt.  See  alio  No,  483,  on  made  dishes. 
For  aAucK  /or  eold  »e<(f,  aee  No.  3S9,  cucumber  Vihflgari  No.  3BB,  and  horaeradlah 
vinccar,  Noa.  399*  and  458. 

t  "  Thia  joint  ia  often  apoiled  for  the  next  day^s  use,  by  an  iqjndieioua  mode  of 
Cirving.    If  you  object  to  the  outaide,  take  tbe  brown  off,  and  help  the  next :  by  the 


« 


nearanceaiBo;  ny  cutting  it,  on  tne contrary,  down  the  middle  of 

diravy  runs  out,  ft  becomes  dry,  and  exhibits  a  moat  naaaeiDty  as^i 

» tabtoa  aeoDod  time/'—From  Una'a  CMfeiry,  8vov  HU^  p-Mtt 


If4  aotunRO. 

^tt)ertbefat,andaiethi]iptirt,oritwi]lb6d<me  looimusllt' 
beiore  the  thick  port  is  done  enough. 

N.B.  A  pig*ifon  placed  before  it  on  the  bars  oi  tiie  gfrate 
antwen  ereiy  purpose  of  keeping  the  thin  part  frcwi  being 
too  much  done* 

Oh.  Many  peraons  prefer  tiiie  ribs  to  the  sirloin. 

Rihs  of  Serf  bomd  and  ro{fe(i.-KNd.  310 

When  YOU  have  kept  two  or  three  ribs  of  beef  till  quite 
tender,  take  out  the  bones,  and  skewer  it  as  round  as  possiUe 
(like  a  fillet  of  veal) :  before  they  roll  it,  some  cooks  egg  it, 
and  sprinkle  it  witih  veal  stufSng  (No.  374).  As  the  meat  is 
more  m  a  solid  mass,  it  will  reqinre  more  time  at  the  fire  than 
in  the  preceding  receipt ;  a  piece  of  ten  or  twelve  pounds 
weight  will  not  be  well  and  thoroughly  roasted  in  less  than 
four  and  a  half  or  five  hours. 

For  the  first  half  hour,  it  should  not  be  less  than  twelve 
Inches  from  the  fire,  that  it  may  ^et  nudually  warm  to  the 
centre :  the  last  half  hour  before  it  mil  be  finished,  sprinkle 
a  little  salt  over  it ;  and  if  you  wish  to  froth  it,  flour  it,  &c. 

JHUTTWVr.^— (No.  33.) 

As  beef  requures  a  large,  sound  fire,  mutton  must  have  a 
brisk  and  sharp  one.  If  you  wish  to  have  mutton  tender,  it 
should  be  hung  almost  as  long  as  it  wiU  keep;t  and  then 

*  DiAX  Swxrr*!  receipt  toreaet  mutton* 
To  GnunxAKi*!  beantiflil  air— »  Omely  t§uek  the  wtrkli$ig  ^«*" 

**  Gently  itir  and  blow  the  fire, 
hn  the  mutton  down  to  roatt, 

Dreas  it  quiddy,  I  desire, 
In  tbe  drlppinf  pat  a  toast, 

That  I  bunglr  may  reaMve;— 

Mutton  is  toe  meat  I  love. 

**  On  the  dresMT  see  it  lie ; 

Ob !  the  ehaimiflg  white  and  red  1 

Finer  meat  ne*er  met  tlie  ^e,  ^ 

On  the  sweetest  grass  it  fed;  V 

Let  tbe  jack  10  swiftly  roond, 

Let  me  have  it  nicely  iirown*a* 

j^  On  tbe  table  spread  tbe  clotb, 
Letibe  knives  be  «barp  and  dean, 
.  Pickles  get  and  salad  both, 
Let  them  each  be  fresh  and  green. 
With  small beer,food  ale,  and  wio^ 
0,ye  fods!  bowlstaattdine!" 

t'die  tt0  chaptar«f  ADvioc  t»  coosf. 


L 


IEPO!ieigiit4o0tii«».e.f0ur  yean  old  iiiiittcn»  is  as  flood  eat- 
UQkgaa  venisoiit  if  it  is  accomiNUued  by  Nos.  389  and  346. 

The  leg,  haunch,  and  saddle  will  be  the  better  for  bang 
hong  up  in  a  cool  aiiy  place  for  four  or  five  days  at  least;  in 
temperate  weather,  a  week;  in  cdid  weather,  ten  days. 

If  you  think  yonr  mutton  will  not  be  tender  enough  to  do 
honour  to  the  spit,  dress  it  as  a  **gi^ot  de  $qit  heurei,'^  See 
N.B.  to  No.  1  and  No.  493. 

Jl  L^r-<No.  34.) 

Of  eight  pounds,  will  take  about  two  hoars:  let  it  be  weQ 
basted,  and  frothed  in  the  same  manner  as  directed  in  No.  19. 
To  hash  mutton.  No.  484.    To  broQ  it.  No.  467,  &c. 

A  Cfune  or  Saddler^o.  96.) 

(t.  e.  the  two  loins)  of  ten  or  eleven  pounds,  two  hours  and 
a  half:  it  is  the  business  of  the  butcher  to  take  off  the  skin 
and  skewer  it  on  again,  to  defend  the  meat  from  extreme 
heat,  and  preserve  its  succulence;  if  this  is  nej^lected,  tie  a 
sheet  of  paper  over  it  (baste  the  strings  3rou  tie  it  on  with 
directly,  or  mey  will  bum) :  about  a  auarter  of  an  hour  before 
you  thmk  it  wiQ  be  done,  take  off  tne  dun  or  paper,  that  it 
may  get  a  pale  brown  colour,  then  baste  it  and  flour  it  lightly 
io  mUh  it.    We  like  No.  346  for  sauce. 

N.B.  Desire  the  butcher  to  cut  off  the  flaps  and  the  tail 
and  dramp  end,  and  trim  away  eveiy  part  diat  has  not  indis- 
putable pretensions  to  be  eaten.  This  will  reduce  a  saddle 
of  eleven  pounds  weight  to  about  nz  or  sewea  pounds. 

A  Sbm4d€r,-^o.  97.) 

Of  seven  poimds,  anhour  and  afaalf.  Put  Ihe  spitin  close 
to  the  shaiik4xme,  and  run  it  along  the  blade4)one* 

N.]).  The  blade-bone  is  a  favourite  luncheon  <Hr  su^r 
relish,  scored,  pq>peied  and  salted,  and  broiled,  or  doiie  in  a 
Dutch  oven. 

A  Loin,*— (No.  28.) 

Of  mutton^  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  an  hour  and  U»ee 
quarters.  Uie  most  elegant  way  of  carving  this»  is  4o  cut  it 
lengtiiwise,  as  you  do  a  saddle :  read  No.  96. 

*  CSrauMi  CMfa  Mfir  ««M9fli  tman  tia  mdt  tfmeek$  tutd  Mm;  to  tave  tbli 
Oone  iilcdsrf  let  tbe  fln  be  a  Aw  iodMB  tonfor  at  cacb  ead  tbaia  tile  Jolat  ttat  J« 
roaitiiM,  and  oeoariooally  piBca  tlM  fpit  aUmtiiig,80<tbat  eaehtnd  iM^ 
flie ;  ooerwise,  after  tbe  meat  is  drnie,  yo«  must  talM  it  up,  and  put  ue  enli  bemn 

L3  I 


19B  ItOASTING. 

N.B.  Spit  it  on  a  skewer  or  lark  spit,  and  tie  that  on  the 
common  f^it,  and  do  not  spoil  the  meat  by  running  the  spit 
through  the  prime  part  of  it. 

A  ^ecfe,— (No.  39.) 

About  the  same  time  as  a  loin.  It  must  be  carefully  jointed^ 
or  it  is  very  difSlcult  to  carve.  The  neck  and  breast  are,  in 
small  families,  commonly  roasted  together;  the  cook  will 
then  crack  the  bones  across  Uie  middle  before  they  are  put 
down  to  roast :  if  this  is  not  done  carefully,  they  are  very 
troublesome  to  carve.  Tell  the  cook,  when  she  taKes  it  from 
.the  spit,  to  separate  them  before  she  sends  them  to  table. 

Obs, — ^If  there  is  more  fat  than  you  think  will  be  eaten  with 
the  lean,  cut  it  off,  and  it  will  make  an  excellent  suet  pud- 
ding (No.  551,  or  No.  554). 

N.B.  The  best  way  to  spit  this  is  to  run  iron  skewers 
across  it,  and  put  the  spit  between  them. 

A  Br«CMl,— (No.  30.) 

An  hour  and  a  quarter 

To  grill  a  breast  of  mutton,  see  Obs.  to  No.  38. 

A  HaMncft,— (No.  31.) 

(u  «.  the  leg  and  part  of  the  loin)  of  mutton:  send  up  two 
sauce-boats  with  it ;  one  of  rich  mutton  gravy,  made  without 
spice  or  herbs  (No.  347),  and  the  other  of  sweet  sauce  (No. 
346).  It  generally  weighs  about  15  pounds,  and  requires 
about  three  hours  and  a  half  to  roast  it. 

Mutton^  venison  fashion. — (No.  33.) 

Take  a  neck  of  good  four  or  five  years  old  Southdown 
wether  mutton,  cut  long  in  the  bones ;  let  it  hang  (in  tempe* 
rate  weather)  at  least  a  week :  two  days  before  you  dress  it, 
take  allspice  and  black  pepper,  ground  and  pounded  fine^a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  each ;  rub  them  together,  and  then  rub 
your  mutton  well  with  this  mixture  twice  a  day.  When  you 
dress  it,  wash  off  the  spice  with  warm  water,  and  roast  in 
paste,  as  we  have  ordered  the  haunch  of  venison.  (No.  63). 

Obs. — ^Persevering  and  ingenious  epicures  have  invented 
many  methods  to  give  mutton  the  flavour  of  venison.  Some 
say  that  mutton,  prepared  as  above,  may  be  mistaken  for 
venison;  others,  that  it  is  full  as  good.  The  refined  palate 
of  a  grand  gourmand  (in  spite  of  the  spice  and  wine  the  meat 
has  TOen  fuddled  and  rubbed  with)  will  perhaps  still  protest 


ROASTCfO.  117 

against  '^  Welch  Temson  f  and  indeed  we  do  not  understand 
by  what  conjuration  allspice  and  claret  can  communicate  the 
flavour  of  venison  to  mutton.  We  confess  our  fears  that  the 
flavour  of  venison  (especially  of  its  fat)  is  inimitable;  but 
believe  you  may  procure  prime  eight-toothed  wether  mutton, 
keep  it  the  proper  time,  and  send  it  to  table  with  the  accom- 
paniments (Nos.  346  and  347,  &;c.)  usually  given  to  venison, 
and  a  rational  epicure  wiU  eat  it  with  as  much  satisfaction 
as  he  would  ^  feed  on  the  king's  fallow  deer.'' 

FEjJL.— (No.  33.) 

Veal  requires  particular  care  to  roast  it  a  nice  brown. 
Let  the  fire  be  the  same  as  for  beef ;  a  sound  large  fire  for  a 
large  joint,  and  a  brisker  for  a  smaller;  put  it  at  some  distance 
from  the  ibre  to  soak  thoroughly,  and  then  draw  it  near  to 
finish  it  brown. 

When  first  laid  down,  it  is  to  be  basted;  baste  it  again 
occasionally.  When  the  veal  is  on  the  dish,  pour  over  it  hsdf 
a  pint  of  melted  butter  (No.  256) :  if  you  have  a  little  brown 
gravy  by  you,  add  that  to  the  butter  (No.  326).  With  those 
joints  wnich  are  not  stuffed,  send  up  forcemeat  (No.  374,  or 
No.  375)  in  balls,  or  rolled  into  sausa^s,  as  garnish  to  the 
dish,  or  fried  pork  sausages  (No.  87) ;  bacon  (No.  13,  or  No. 
526,  or  No.  527),  and  greens,  are  also  always  expected  with 
veal. 

FUUt  of  Fealy^(So.  34.) 

Of  from  twelve  to  sixteen  pounds,  will  require  from  four 
to  five  hours  at  a  good  fire ;  make  some  stuffing  or  forcemeat 
(No.  374  or  5),  and  put  it  in  under  the  flap,  that  there  may 
foe  some  left  to  eat  cold,  or  to  season  a  hash  ;*  brown  it, 
and  pour  good  melted  butter  (No.  266)  over  it,  as  directed 
in  No.  33. 

Garnish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon  and  cakes  or  balls  of 
stuffins,  or  No.  374,  or  No.  375,  or  duck  stufling  (No.  61), 
or  fried  pork  sausages  (No.  87),  curry  sauce  (No.  348),  bacon 
(No.  13),  and  greens,  &c. 

N.B.  Potted  veal  (No.  533). 

06s« — ^A  bit  of  the  brown  outside  is  a  favourite  with  the 
epicure  in  roasts.  The  kidney,  cut  out,  sliced,  and  broiled 
(No.  358),  is  a  high  relish,  which  some  bans  vvvanis  are 
fond  of. 

*  To  MiKCB  or  BAiB  VIAL,  968  No.  511,  Or  511*,  and  to  make  a  raoout  of  oolfl 
Teal|No.513. 


J. 


A  Loin,«-(No.  3d.) 

Is  the  best  part  of  the  calf,  and  will  take  about  diree 
hours  roasting.  Paper  the  kidney  fat,  and  the  back :  some 
oodu  send  it  up  on  a  toast,  which  is  eaten  with  the  kid- 
ney and  the  fat  of  this  part,  which  is  as  delicate  as  any 
marrow.  If  there  is  more  of  it  than  you  thi^  will  be 
eaten  with  the  veal,  before  you  roast  it  cut  it  out ;  it  will 
make  an  excellent  suet  pudding :  take  care  to  have  your 
fire  long  enough  to  brown  the  ends ;  same  accomimniments 
as  No.  34. 

A  ShouUkrrA^o,  36.) 

From  three  hours  to  three  hours  and  a  half;  stuff  it  with 
the  forcemeat  ordered  for  the  fillet  of  veal,  in  the  under  side, 
or  balls  made  of  No.  374. 

JVecfc,  best  end, — (No.  37.) 

Win  take  two  hours ;  same  accompaniments  as  No*  84* 
Hie  serag  part  is  best  made  into  a  pie,  or  broth. 

Bnast^^No.  38.) 

From  an  hoMc  and  a  half  to  two  hours.  Let  the  caul 
remain  till  it  is  almost  done,  ^en  take  it  off  to  browA  it ; 
baste,  flour,  and  froth  it. 

065. — This  makes  a  savoury  relish  for  a  luncheon  or 
suraer :  or,  instead  of  roasting,  boil  it  enough ;  put  it  iti  a 
dom  between  two  pewtar  dishes,  with  a  weight  on  the  uj^r 
(me,  and  let  it  remain  so  till  cold;  then  pare  and  trim,  egg, 
and  cmnb  it,  and  broil, or  warm  it  in  a  Dutch  oven;  serve 
With  it  capers  (No.  374),  or  wow  wow  sauce  (No.  328). 
Bieaet  of  mutton  may  be  dressed  the  same  way. 

FeoJ  Sweeibtead.'-{iio.  39.) 

Trim  a  fine  sweetbread  (it  cannot  be  too  fresh) ;  paihoil  it 
for  five  minutes,  and  throw  it  into  a  basin  of  cold  water. 
Itoast  it  plain,  or 

.  Beat  up  the  yelk  of  an  egg,  and  prepare  some  fine  bread- 
crumbs :  when  the  sweetbread  is  cold,  dry  it  thoroughly  in 
acloih ;  run  a  laik-spit  or  a  skewer  through  it,  and  tfe  it  on 
the  ordinary  spit ;  egg  it  with  a  paste-bram-;  powder  it  well 
with  bread-crumbs,  and  roast  it. 

For  aauce^&ied  bread-crumbs  round  it,  and  melted  butter, 
with  a  little  mushroom  catchup  (No.  4^),  and  lemon^ 


BOASTING.  Its 

juice  (Nos.  307,  354,  or  356),  or  serre  them  on  buttered 
toast,  g^amielied  with  egg  sauce  (No.  307),  or  with  gravy 
(No.  309). 

0(«.^^ui8tead  oi  sfMttiiig  them,  you  may  put  them  into  a 
tin  Dutch  oven,  or  fry  them  (Nos.  88, 89,  or  513). 

lMiBr<So.  40.) 

Is  a  delicate,  and  commonly  considered  tender  meat;  but 
those  who  talk  of  tender  lamb,  while  they  are  thinking  of 
the  age  of  the  animal,  forget  that  even  a  chicken  must  be 
kept  a  proper  time  after  it  nas  been  killed,  or  it  win  be  tough 
pickinff. 

Woiul  experience  has  warned  us  to  beware  of  accepting 
an  invitation  to  dinner  on  Easter  Sunday,  unless  comnuMMM 
by  a  thorough-bred ^rotfrfiuifid;  our  incuort$,molare$^  andprin^ 
cipal  viscera  have  protested  against  the  imprudence  of 
encountering  young,  tough,  stringy  mutton,  under  the  fnuno- 
fnen  of  grass  lamb.  The  proper  name  for  ^  Easter  grae» 
Iamb**  is  **  hay  nrattoii.'* 

To  the  usual  accon^paniments  of  roasted  meat,  gve^i 
mint  sauce  (No.  303),  a  salad  (Nos.  373  and  138*),  is 
commonly  aaded;  and  some  cooks,  about  five  minutes 
before  it  is  done,  spidnkle  it  with  a  MtUe  fresh  gathered  and 
finely  minced  parsley,  or  No.  318:  lamb,  and  all  young 
meats,  ought  to  be  thoroughly  done;  therefore  do  not 
take  either  lamb  or  veal  off  tlie  spit  till  you  see  it  drop 
white  gravy. 

Grass  lamb  is  in  season  from  Easter  to  Michaelmas. 

House  lamb  from  Christmas  to  Lady-day. 

Sham  lamb,  see  Obs.  to  following  receipt. 

N.B.  When  green  mint  cannot  be  got,  mint  vinegar  (No« 
398)  is  an  acceptable  substitute  for  it ;  and  crisp  parsley 
(No.  318),  on  a  side  plate,  is  an  admirable  accompaniment* 

H&Mi-Qttarter,---(No.  41). 

Of  eight  pounds,  will  take  from  an  hour  and  three^uai^eis 
to  two  hours :  baste  and  froth  it  in  the  same  way  as-directad 
in  No.  19. 

065.— A  quarter  of  a  poikling  is  sometimes  skinned,  ci^ 
and  dressed  lamb*fa^li0n^  and  sent  iip  as  a  substitute  for  it. 
The  leg  and  the  loin  of  lamb,  when  httle,  shiwld  be  roasted 
together  ;.tbe  former  being  leanytjie  latter  i9it,wd  t^  gravy 
ts  better  preserved. 


130  ROABTIKG. 

Fore-Quaf<«r,— (No.  42.) 

Of  ten  pounds,  about  two  hours. 

N.B.  It  is  a  pretty  general  custom,  when  you  take  off  the 
shoulder  from  the  ribs,  to  squeeze  a  Seville  orange  over 
them,  and  sprinkle  them  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  t 

Obs. — ^This  may  as  well  be  done  by  the  cook  before  it 
comes  to  table ;  some  people  are  not  remarkably  expert  at 
dividing  these  Joints  nicely. 

L^,— (No.  43.) 
Of  five  pounds,  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Sfundderr-{f^o.  44.) 

With  a  quick  fire,  an  hour. 
See  065.  to  No.  27. 

Rihsr-iJSo.  45.) 

About  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  quarter:  joint  it  nicely, 
craek  the  ribs  across,  and  divide  them  from  the  brisket  after 
it  is  roasted. 

L<»n,— (No.  46.) 
An  hour  and  a  quarter. 

JVecfe,— (No.  47.) 
An  hour. 

Breasty^No.  48.) 
Three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

PO/Ue:-^(No.  49.) 

The  prime  season  for  pork  is  from  Michaelmas  to  March.. 

Take  particular  care  it  be  done  enough:  other  meats 
under-done  are  unpleasant,  but  pork  is  absSutely  uneatable ; 
the  sight  of  it  is  enough  to  appal  the  sharpest  appetite,  if  its 
gravy  has  the  least  tint  of  redness. 

Be  careful  of  the  crackling;  if  this  be  not  crisp,  or  if  it  be 
burned,  you  will  be  scolded. 

For  sauces,  No.  300,  No.  304,  and  No.  342. 

O65.— Pease  pudding  (No.  555)  is  as  good  an  accompani- 
ment to  roasted,  as  it  is  to  boiled  pork ;  and  most  palates  are 
pleased  with  the  savoury  powder  set  down  in  No.  51,  or 


BOAJSmNG.  131 

bread-crumbs,  mixed  with  sage  and  onion,  minced  very  fine, 
or  zest  (No.  355)  sprinkled  over  it. 

N.B.  ^  The  western  pigs,  from  Berks,  Oxford,  and  Bucks, 
possess  a  decided  superiority  over  the  eastern,  of  Essex, 
Sussex,  and  Norfolk;  not  to  forset  another  qualification 
of  the  former,  at  which  some  readers  may  smUe,  a  thick- 
ness of  the  skin ;  whence  the  crackling  of  the  roasted  pork 
is  a  fine  gelatinous  substance,  which  may  be  (easily  mas- 
ticated; while  the  crackling  of  the  thin-skinned  breeds  is 
roasted^  into  good  block  tin,  the  reduction  of  which  would 
almost  require  teeth  of  iron.^ — ^Moubray  on  Poultry,  1816, 
page  242. 

A  L^,— (No.  50.) 

Of  eight  pounds,  will  require  about  three  hours :  score  the 
skin  across  in  narrow  stripes  (some  score  it  in  diamonds), 
abbut  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart ;  stuff  the  knuckle  with  sage 
and  onion,  minced  fine,  ana  a  little  grated  bread,  seasoned 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  the  yelk  of  an  egg.  See  Duck  Stuffing, 
(No.  61.)  ' 

Do  not  put  it  too  near  the  fire :  rub  a  little  sweet  oil  on 
the  skin  with  a  paste-brush,  or  a  goose-feather :  this  makes 
the  crackling  cnsper  and  browner  than  basting  it  with  drip- 
ping ;  and  it  will  be  a  better  colour  than  all  the  art  of  cookery 
can  make  it  in  any  other  way ;  and  this  is  the  best  way  of 
preventing  the  skin  from  blistering,  which  is  principally 
occasioned  by  its  being  put  too  near  ^e  fire. 

Leg  of  Pork  roasted  rnthmU  the  Skin^  commonly  called 
Mock  Goose.* — (No.  51.) 

Parboil  it ;  take  off  the  skin,  and  then  put  it  down  to  roast ; 
•baste  it  with  butter,  and  make  a  savoury  powder  of  finely 
minced,  or  dried  and  powdered  sage,  ffround  black  pepper, 
salt,  and  some  bread-crumbs,  rubbed  together  through  a 
colander;  you  may  add  to  Uiis  a  little  very  finely  minced 
onion :  spnnkle  it  with  this  when  it  is  almost  roasted.  Put 
half  a  pmt  of  made  -gravy  into  the  dish,  and  goose  stufibnf 
(No.  378)  under  the  knuckle  skin;  or  gamish  the  dish  witE 
balls  of  it  fried  or  boiled. 

^  PriteiUa  Ha»Ukuraty  ia  lier  Housekeeper's  Instnutor.  8ro.  Bbefiield,  1810,  p. 
19,  gtves  U0  a  receipt "  to  gooaify  a  ■hoalder  of  lamb.'*  "  Un  gmnd  Cuisinier,"  in- 
ftnned  me  that  <«te  lambify'*  the  leg  of  a  porklfaif  is  a  fovourite  metamorphoiii  in 
the  Frmct)  kitcheo,  wfceo  Dome  lamb  ia  very  dear. 


The  QriskinrH^o.  53.) 

Of  seven  or  eight  pounds,  mav  be  dressed  in  the  same 
otaaner.    U  Avill  take  an  hour  andf  a  half  roasting. 

A  Bacon  Sport^EibrH^'  ^3.) 

Usually  weighs  about  eight  or  nine  pounds,  and  will  take 
Mm  two  to  three  hours  to  roast  it  thoroughly;  not  exacdy 
according  to  its  weight,  but  the  thickness  of  uie  meat  upon 
it,  which  varies  very  much.  Lay  the  thick  end  nearest  to 
the  fire. 

A  proper  bald  spare-rib  of  eight  pounds  weight  (so  called 
because  almost  all  the  meat  is  pared  off),  with  a  steady  fire, 
will  be  done  in  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  There  is  so  little 
meat  on  a  bald  spare-rib,  that  if  you  have  a  large,  fierce  fire, 
it  will  be  burned  before  it  is  warm  through.  Joint  it  nicely, 
and  crack  the  ribs  across  as  you  do  ribs  of  lamb. 

When  you  put  it  down  to  roast,  dust  on  some  flour,  and 
baste  it  with  a  little  butter;  dry  a  dozen  sage  leaves,  and 
rub  them  through  a  hair-sieve,  and  put  them  into  the  top  of 
a  pei^r-box;  and  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  the 
meat  is  done,  baste  it  with  butter;  dust  the  pulverized  sage» 
or  the  savoury  powder  in  No«  51;  or  spxmkle  with  di^k 
stufling  (No.  61). 

Obi, — ^Make  it  a  general  nde  never  to  pour  gravy  over  any 
thing  that  is  roasted ;  by  so  doing,  the  dredging,  &c.  is  washed 
off;  and  it  eats  insipid. 

Some  peoi^e  carve  a  spare-rib  by  cutting  out  in  slices  the 
thick  part  at  the  bottom  of  the  bones.  MVhen  this  meat  is 
cut  away,  the  bones  may  be  easily  separated,  and  are  es- 
teemed very  sweet  picking. 

Apple  sauce  (No.  304),  mashed  potatoes  (No.  106),  an^ 
good  mustard  (No.  370,)  are  indispensable. 

Lotn,— (No.  64.) 

Of  ^ire  pounds,  must  be  kept  at  a  good  distance  from  the 
flrr  on  account  of  tiie  crackling,  and  will  take  about  two 
hours;  if  very  fat,  half  an  hour  longer. 
«  Stuff  it  with  duck  stufling  (No.  378).  Score  the  skin  in 
stripes,  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart,  and  nib  it  with  salad 
oil,  as  directed  m  No.  50.  Yon  may  nprinkle  over  it  some 
of  the  savoury  powder  recommended  tor  the  mock  goose 
(No.  61). 


JUUSTXN6.  139 

A  C%ifie.«-(No.  55.) 

If  parted  down  ^lie  back-bone  eo  ta  to  hate  but  one  sidef 
a  good  fire  wfll  roaat  it  m  two  hours;  if  not  parted,  three 
hours. 

N.B.  Chines  axe  generally  salted  and  boiled* 

j9iSMciM8^.Pi^,*— (No.  56.) 

Is  in  prime  order  for  the  spit  when  about  three  weeks  old« 

It  loses  part  of  its  goodness  eveiy  hour  after  it  is  killed ; 
if  not  quite  fresh,  no  art  can  make  the  crackling  crisp. 

To  be  in  perfection,  it  should  be  killed  in  the  morning  io 
be  eaten  at  dinner:  it  reqmres  very  careful  roasting.  A 
snekmg-piff,  l&e  a  young  cmld,  must  not  be  left  for  an  instant* 

The  entu  must  nave  much  more  fire  than  the  middle :  for 
tiiis  purpose  is  contrived  an  iron  to  hang  before  the  middle 
part,  called  a  pig-iron.  If  you  have  not  this,  use  a  common 
flat  ircm,  or  keep  the  fire  fiercest  at  the  two  ends. 

For  the  stuffing,  take  of  the  crumb  of  a  stale  loaf  about 
five  ounces ;  nd)  it  ttirough  a coland^ ;  mince  fine  ahandinl 
of  sage  (i.  e.  about  two  ounces^  and  a  large  onion  (sdwut 
an  ounce  aoid  a  halff).  Mix  these  together  with  an  egg^ 
some  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  bit  of  butter  as  big  as  an  egg. 
fin  the  belly  of  the  pig  with  this,  and  sew  it  up :  lay  it  to 
the  ffare,  and  oaste  it  wiw  salad  oil  till  it  is  quite  done.  Do 
not  leave  it  a  moment :  it  requires  the  most  vigilant  attend- 
ance. 

Roast  it  at  a  clear,  brisk  fire  at  some  distance.  To  gain 
the  praise  of  epicurean  pig-eaters,  the  crackling  must  be 
nicely  crisped  and  delicately  lightly  browned,  without  being 
either  blistered  or  burnt. 

A  small,  three  weeks  old  pig  will  be  done  enougfaj  in  about 
an  hour  and  a  half. 

Before  you  take  it  from  the  fire,  cut  off  the  head,  and  part 
that  and  the  body  down  the  middle :  chop  the  brains  very 
fine,  with  some  boiled  sage  leaves,  and  mix  them  with  good 


.  Obimod  itaitamm  thte  **  Jtmmatmtdsste,  mmemi  du  JmU^  etlerndii 
imm&ndea.**    MaiUand,  in  ]i.  756,  of  voL  U.  of  tab  Hutaij  •/  lAmim, 


♦Mow. 
tfKimoKz 

r«ekoi»  that  tbe  niunber  of  muttiiMg-pig^ttaomiueA  ia  Um  eity  of  Lmoa  la  tli« 
year  nSS,  aDoanted  to  58,000.  * 

T  Sane  dMuUlif  mmiMm  patatM-deBire  the  cook  to  pwhoU  tlie  rage  uid  ooioiii 
0)efewtlieyAif  ciit),tofoft«iaad  taheofr tterawnMi of  thek flavour;  dieaMtir 
and  drier  theonion,  tlie  atr«iig«r  will  l>e  ito  flavour;  and  tbe  teamed  Byslym  orden 
theie  tol^ediclMrated  by  gentle  maceralloiL 

X  An  andOBtcuUnaiy  sage  lays,  **Wlian  yonaeeaptg^cyeadropoiit,yoaBa]r 
bejatigMbaiiaabadeiioi«bafthefii«r*  Tbia  is  no  criterion  that  tbe  bo^yof 
tiienlf  la  done  enottgb,  bat  jurlMi  merely  fiom  tbe  brlakneia  9f  tbe  fire  bcfoie  ibe 
held  of  It. 

M 


134  BOASTXKO, 

veal  fi^avy,  made  as  directed  in  No.  19d,  or  beef  gravy  (No 
399),  or  what  runs  from  the  pig  when  you  cut  its  head  off. 
JSend  up  a  tureeinful  of  gravy  (No.  329)  besides.    Currant 
sauce  is  still  a  favourite  with  some  of  the  old  school. 

Lay  your  pig  back  to  back  in  the  dish,  with  one  half  of  the 
head  on  each  side,  and  the  ears  one  at  each  end,  which ''you 
must  take  care  to  make  nice  and  crisp;  or  you  will  get 
scolded,  and  deservedly,  as  the  silly  fellow  was  who  bought 
his  wife  a  pig  with  only  one  ear. 

When  you  cut  off  the  pettitoes,  leave  the  skin  long  round 
the  ends  of  the  legs.  Vmen  you  first  lay  the  pig  before  the 
fire,  rub  it  aU  over  with  fresh  butter  or  salad  oil :  ten  minutes 
after,  and  the  skin  looks  dry ;  dredge  it  well  with  fiour  all 
over,  let  it  remain  on  an  hour,  then  nu)  it  off  with  a  soft  cloth. 

N.  B.  A  pig  is  a  very  troublesome  subject  to  roast ;  most 
persons  have  them  baked.  Send  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  and  beg  the  baker  to  baste  it  weU. 

Turkey,  Turkey  FouUs,  and  other  Pou/iry.— (No.  67.) 

A  fowl  and  a  turkey  require  the  same  management  at  the 
fire,  only  the  latter  will  take  longer  time. 

Many  a  Christmas  dinner  has  been  spoiled  by  the  turkey 
having  been  hung  up  in  a  cold  larder^  and  becoming 
thoroughly  frozen ;  Jack  Frost  has  ruined  the  reputation  of 
many  a  turkey-roaster:  therefore,  in  very  cola  weather, 
remember  the  note  in  the  5th  page  of  the  2d  chapter  of  the 
Rudiments  of  Cookery. 

Let  them  be  carefully  picked,  &c.  and  break  the  breast- 
bone (to  make  them  look  plump),  twist  up  a  sheet  of  clean 
writing-paper,  light  it,  and  thoroughly  singe  the  turkey  aU 
ever,  turning  it  about  over  the  flame. 

Turkeys,  fowls,  and  capons  have  a  much  better  appearance, 
if,  instead  of  trussiag  them  with  the  legs  close  together,  and 
the  feet  cut  off,  the  legs  are  extended  on  each  side  of  the  bird, 
and  the  toes  only  cut  off,  with  a  skewer  through  each  foot,, 
to  keep  them  at  a  proper  distance. 

Be  careful,  when  you  draw  it,  to  preserve  the  liver,  and  not 
to  break  the  gall-bag,  as  no  washing  will  take  off  the  bitter 
taste  it  gives,  where  it  once  touches. 
,  Prepare  a  nice,  clear,  brisk  fire  for  it. 

Make  stuffing  according  to  No.  374,  or  376 ;  stuff  it  under 
the  breast,  where  the  craw  was  taken  out,  and  make  some 
into  balls,  and  boil  or  fry  them,  and  lay  them  round  the  dish ; 
they  are  handy  to  help,  and  you  can  then  reserve  some  of  the 
inside  stuffing  to  eat  with  the  cold  turkey,  or  to  enrich  a 
hash  (No.  533]. 


S0A8TXN6.  ]35 

Score  the  gizzard,  dip  it  into  the  ytSk  of  an  egff  or  melted 
butter,  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne ; 
put  it  under  one  pinion  and  the  liver  under  the  other ;  cover 
the  liver  with  buttered  paper,  to  prevent  it  from  getting 
hardened  or  burnt. 

When  you  first  put  a  turkey  down  to  roast,  dred^  it  with 
flour ;  then  put  about  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  bastmg-ladle, 
and  as  it  melts,  baste  the  bird  therewith. 

Keep  it  at  a  distance  from  the  fire  for  the  first  half  hour, 
that  it  may  warm  gradually ;  then  put  it  nearer,  and  when  it 
is  plumped  up,  and  the  steam  draws  in  towards  the^fire,  it  i« 
nearly  enough ;  then  dredge  it  lightly  with  flour,  and  put  a 
bit  of  butter  into  your  bastiag-la<&e,  and  as  it  melts,  baste 
the  turkey  with  it ;  this  will  raise  a  finer  froth  than  can  be 
produced  by  using  the  fat  out  of  the  pan. 

A  veiy  large  turkey  will  require  about  three  hours  to  roast 
it  thoroughhr;  a  middling-sized  one,  of  eight  or  ten  pounds 
(which  is  far  nicer  eating  than  the  very  large  one),  about 
two  hours ;  a  small  one  may  be  done  in  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Turkey  poults  are  of  various  sizes,  and  will  take  about  an 
hour  and  a  half;  they  should  be  trussed,  with  their  legs 
twisted  under  like  a  duck,  and  the  head  under  the  wing  like 
a  pheasant. 

Fried  pork  sausages  (No.  87)  are  a  very  savouiy  and  fa- 
vourite accompaniment  to  either  roasted  or  boiled  poultry. 
A  turkey  thus  garnished  is  called  "  an  alderman  in  chains." 

Sausage-meat  is  sometimes  used  as  stu&ng,  instead  of 
the  ordinary  forcemeat.    TNo.  376,  &c.) 

Mem.  If  you  wish  a  turkey,  especially  a  very  large  one^ 
to  be  tender,  never  dress  it  till  at  least  u>ur  or  hve  days  (in 
cold  weather,  eight  or  ten)  after  it  has  been  killed.  '*  No 
man  who  understands  good  living  wiU  say,  on  such  a  day  I 
will  eat  that  turkey ;  but  will  hang  it  up  by  four  of  the  large 
tail-feathers,  and  when,  on  pa3ning  his  morning  visit  to  the 
larder,  he  finds  it  lying  upon  a  cloth  prepared  to  receive  it 
when  it  falls,  that  day  let  it  be  cooked." 

Hen  turkeys  are  preferable  to  cocks  for  whiteness  and 
tenderness,  and  the  smaU  fleshy  ones  with  Uack  legs  are 
most  esteemed. 

Send  up  with  them  oyster  (No.  878),  egg  (No.  267)»  bread 
(No.  221),  and  plenty  of  gravy  sauce  (No.  329).  To  hash 
turkey.  No.  533. 

Mem.  Some  epicures  are  very  fond  of  the  gizzard  and 
rump,  peppered  and  salted,  and  broiled.  (See  No.  538,  *^  how 
to  dress  a  devil  with  vMUMe  sauce  (tenfir  I  /")  - 


136  B0A8TIN6. 

Capons  or  FcwUf^{Ko.  58.) 

Must  be  JvHed  a  couple  <»f  days  in  moderate,  and  moie  in 
cold  weather,  before  they  are  dressed,  or  they  wiU  eat  toug^ : 
a  g^ood  criterion  of  the  ripeness  of  poultry  for  the  apit,  is 
the  ease  with  which  you  can  then  poll  out  the  feathers ; 
when  a  fowl  is  plucked,  leave  a  few  to  help  you  to  ascertain 
this. 

They  are  managed  exactly  in  the  same  manner,  and  sent 
up  with  the  same  sauces  as  a  turkey,  only  they  require  pvo- 
portionably  Iftss  time  at  the  fire. 

A  full-grown  five-toed  fowl,  about  an  hour  and  a  quarter* 

A  moderate-sized  one,  an  hour. 

A  chicken,  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes. 

Here,  also,  pork  sausages  fried  (No.  87)  are  in  general  a 
favourite  accompaniment,  or  turkey  stuffing;  see  force- 
meats (Nos.  374, 5,  6,  and  7) ;  put  in  plenty  of  it,  so  as  to 
plump  out  the  fowl,  which  must  be  tied  closely  (both  at  the 
neck  and  rump),  to  keep  in  the  stuffing. 

Some  cooks  put  the  liver  of  the  fowl  into  this  forcemeat, 
and  others  mince  it  and  pound  it,  and  rub  it  up  with  four  and 
melted  butter  {Ko.  387)1 

When  the  bird  is  stuffed  and  trussed,  score  the  gizsard 
nicely,  dip  it  into  melted  butter,  let  it  drain,  and  then  season 
it  with  Cayenne  and  salt ;  pat  it  under  one  pinion,  and  the 
liver  imder  the  other ;  to  i»revent  their  getting  hardened  or 
scorched,  cover  them  with  double  paper  puttered. 

Take  care  that  your  roasted  poultry  be  well  browned;  it 
is  as  indispmisaUe  that  roasted  poultry  should  have  a  rich 
brown  complexion,  as  boiled  poultry  should  have  a  delicate 
white  one. 

Obs.  ^  The  art  of  fattening  poultry  for  the  market  is  a 
considerable  branch  of  rural  eccmomy  in  some  convenient 
situations,  and  consists  in  supplying  th^m  with  plenty  of 
healtlnr  food,  and  confining  them;  and  ducks  and  geese 
must  be  prevented  from  going  into  water,  which  prevents 
them  from  becoming  fat,  and  they  also  thereby  acquii^e  a 
rancid,  fishy  taste.  They  are  pat  into  a  dark  place,  and 
crammed  with  a  paste  made  of  barley  meal,  mutton-«uet, 
and  some  treacle  or  coaise  sugar  mixed  with  milk,  and  are 
found  to  be  completely  ripe  in  a  fortnight.  If  kejpd  lon|[er, 
the  fever  that  is  induced  by  this  continued  state  of  r^eUOfi 
jrenden  them  red  and  unsaleable,  and  fiefuently  killsthem-'* 
JkA  exereiae  is  as  indispensable  to  the  health  <^  poultry  aa 
other  creatures ;  without  it,  the  fat  wiU  be  all  aocumulaled  in 
the  cellular  membrane,  instead  of  being  dispersed  throu^ 


ROAKrUKI.  137 . 

itasvatem.  SeeHonnxtombretdiiigaadJiittautigdoBUttie 
PouOry,  IBmo.  1819. 

Fewla  which  are  fattened  aitificiaUv  are  by  totae^ficimx 
prefened  la  thoae  called  bara-door  fowla;  whom  we  have 
keard  say,  that  ttiey  should  as  soon  thinX  »f  ordenng  a  barn- 
door for  dinner  as  a  bam-door  fowl. 

The  age  of  poultry  makes  all  the  diflerNto« :  Bothiiu  is 
tenderer  thui  a  yonnf  chicken ;  few  thinga  are  tougher  than 
an  old  cock  or  hen,  which  is  only  fit  to  make  twoth.  The 
meri^an  of  perfection  of  poultry  is  just  before  they  have 
come  to  their  full  growth,  before  they  have  begun  to  harden. 

For  sauces,  see  No.  30&,  or  liver  and  parsley,  No.  S87, 
and  those  ordered  in  tiie  last  receipt    To  hash  it,  No.  &33i 

Gooie.— {No,  69.) 

When  a  goose  is  well  picked,  singed,  and  cleaned,  make 
the  stuffing  with  about  two  ounces  of  onion,*  and  half  aa 
much  green  sage,  chop  them  very  fine,  adding  four  ounces, 
t.  e.  about  a  large  breakfaat-cupM  of  stale  bread^irundM,  a 
bit  of  butter  about  &s  big  as  a  walnut,  and  a  very  little  pe^ 
per  and  salt  (to  this  some  cooks  add  haU  the  liTer,t  pia- 
boiling  it  first),  the  yelk  of  an  egg  or  two,  and  incorporating 
tile  whole  well  togetiier,  stuff  the  goose ;  do  not  i^uite  flQ  it* 

•  ir  Tin  Ihlnk  Uu  t*nnir  of  nn>  antcog  too  ibmiE,  ent  UMm  In  dteo,  ni4  li; 


,  .  .  lulbr  Itae  linful  mttci  of  It*  nod 

bin  of  GiHt  Brtuln,  Un  Unn  tf  uohiran  cmldcnd  amy  U|A  frfhh  br  on 
AnilmiUl  DdilibQan:  Mil  Uh  folhwUif  JtrocUow  tatt  a  wgeiiw  a—  laaa- 
BcDon,  n  con  from  iba  ndpo  of  "n  FMI  .fnuCav  A  SflBf  CMn." 
X  The  llva  of  ■  dn^  or  ■  ■«»,  irtaldi  hM  iBbralUed  la  tk«  niki  ud  «d«n  tiMt 

men  of  UMs  hiTO  lOTeiiM  l6r  tba  MntiKBMM  or  bli  kAuaovi  liurii,  h  ■  rapn^ 

]Mn  M«iiltlWlD  tin  paMxrf'nPar'-' ' " ' ■ 

vniaami  ilkriliii  dilMT,  moM  codoi 

■HLdwilKd  or  Srtek,  iwl  knomi 

davtndnd :  ui woaU In  tntblntoi 

of  Ui  nflMnn  Ad  DoinDbnl  Umm 

Ikad^t^tlbl  powui  of  hli  Hnr  ^n 

aii^  IMW  q)Mdlly  U  win  UeoDi  ita 

(BibelMor  douHomWu  (Bd  whh 

"  dn  fWn  (Tw,"  bt  MlnMM  hh  dc 

■tetuciMkwkkr' -^ 


ullnt  Mit,win  It  sot  Kcn  n 

ilnF,  toiaO, m HKOnniid ■  Mh  __ „ , 

nail  WU1ltk«lMilHnd,Uiukwut)wicaaMmdtbBWMt>rpnftettim 
nf  Bid  nmon,  Unt  U  AooU  In  (O  fwr-lhnawd,  IbK  •  HOC  BU,  M  otuta  oM 
Id  cf  ■«i  Uiu  Iw  Eoald  m,  BUM  purdUMiaoaiB  wkfcli  ka  uald  nM,  unTra 

— "" oMiuddUif :  mononr.IlaliliolilibMpnnlinMWenuninDr 

■liii  [iinlirnil  Jwnj  mH  innii  lii  niiniiiiw  innmnilMU»i<tmKUi 


For  dtfoflai  of  drtp)ihii-p*iB." 


138  KOASroitf. 

Imt  leave  a  little  room  for  the  stuflUifir  to  swell;  spit  it,  tie 
it  on  the  spit  at  hoth  ends,  to  prevent  its  swinging  round,  and 
to  keep  the  stufling  from  coming  out.  From  an  horn:  and  a 
half  to,an  hour  and  three-quarters,  will  roast  a  fine  full- 
grown  goose.  Send  up  gravy  and  apple  sauce  with  it  (see 
Nos.  300,  304,  339,  and  341).    To  hasn  it,  see  No.  530. 

For  another  stuffing  for  geese,  see  No.  378. 

Obi.  "Ivoose-feedinff  in  the  vicinity  of  the  metropolis  is 
so  large  a  concern,  thai  one  person  annually  feeds  for  market 
upwards  of  SOOO.''  **  A  goose  on  a  farm  in  Scotland,  two 
years  since,  of  the  clearly  ascertained  age  of  89  years, 
healthy  and  vigorous^  was  Killed  by  a  sow  while  sitting  over 
her  egffs ;  it  was  supposed  she  might  have  lived  many  years, 
and  l^r  fecundity  appeared  to  be  permanent.  Other  geese 
have  been  proved  to  reach  the  age  of  70  years."  Moubray 
on  Paukry,  p.  40. 

It  appears  in  Dr.  Stark's  ExperimerUs  on  Diet,  p.  110, 
that  '*  when  he  fed  upon  roasted  goose,  he  was  more  vigor- 
ous both  in  body  and  mind  than  with  any  other  diet.'* 

The  ^oose  at  Michaelmas  is  as  famous  in  the  mouths  of 
the  million,  as  the  minced-pie  at  Christmas ;  but  for  those 
who  eat  with  delicacy,  it  is  by  that  time  too  full-grown. 

The  true  period  when  the  goose  is  in  its  highest  perfec- 
tion, is  when  it  has  just  acquired  its  full  growth,  and  not 
begun  to  hsurden.  If  the  March  goose  is  insipid,  the  Michael- 
mas goose  is  rank;  the  fine  time  is  between  both,  from  the 
second  week  in  June  to  the  first  in  September :  the  leg  is 
not  the  most  tender  part  of  a  goose.  See  Mock  Goose 
(No.  51). 

Chrun  Goose. — (No.  60.) 

Geese  are  called  green  till  they  are  about  four  months  old. 

The  only  difference  between  roastii^  these  and  a  full- 
grown  goose,  consists  in  seasoning  it  with  pepper  and  salt 
instead  of  sage  and  onion,  and  roasting  it  for  forty  or  fifty 
minutes  only. 

Ob$.  This  is  one  of  the  least  desirable  of  those  insipid 
premature  productions,  which  are  esteemed  dainties. 

DmcA;.— (No.  61.) 

Mind  your  duck  is  well  cleaned,  and  wiped  out  with  a  clean 
cloth:  for  the  stuffing,  take  an  ounce  of  onion  and  half  an 
ounce  of  green  sa^e;  chop  them  very  fine,  and  mix  them 
with  two  ounces,  ».  e.  about  a  breakfast-cupful,  of  bread- 
crumbs, a  bit  of  butter  about  as  big  as  a  walnuti  a  very  little 


B0A8T1H0.  m 

black  pepper  and  salt,  (some  obtuse  palates  may  require 
wanning  with  a  little  Cayenne,  No.  404,)  and  the  yelk  of  an 
egg  to  bmd  it;  mix  these  thoroughly  together,  and  put  into 
file  duck.  For  another  stuffing,  see  No.  378.  From  half  to 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  will  be  enough  to  roast  it,  accord- 
ing to  the  size :  contriye  to  haye  the  feet  delicately  crisp,  as 
some  people  are  very  fond  of  them;  to  do  this  nicely  you 
must  have  a  sharp  fire.  For  sauce,  green  pease  (No.  134), 
bonne  bouche  (No.  341),  gravy  sauce  (No.  329),  and  sage 
and  onion  sauce  (No.  300). 

To  hash  or  stew  ducks,  see  No.  530. 

N.B.  If  you.  think  the  raw  onion  will  make  too  strong 
an  impression  upon  the  palate,  paiboil  it.  Read  Ob$*  to 
No.  59.  < 

To  ensure  ducks  being  tender,  in  moderate  weather  lull 
them  a  few  days  before  you  dress  them. 

Haunch  of  FmtiNm.— (No.  63.) 

To  preserve  the  fat,  make  a  paste  of  flour  and  water,  as 
much  as  will  cover  the  haunch ;  wipe  it  wiVh  a  dry  cloth  in 
every  part;  rub  a  large  sheet  of  paper  all  over  with  butter, 
and  cover  ihe  venison  with  it;  then  roll  out  the  paste  about 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick ;  lay  this  all  over  the  fat  side* 
and  cover  it  weU  with  three  or  four  sheets  of  strong  white 
paper,  and  tie  it  securely  on  with  packthread :  have  a  strong, 
close  file,  and  baste  your  venison  as  soon  as  you  lay  it  down 
to  roast  (to  prevent  the  paper  and  string  from  burning) ;  it 
must  be  well  basted  all  the  time* 

A  buck  haunch  generally  weijp^hs  from  20  to  25  pounds ;  will 
take  about  four  hours  and  a  half  roasting  in  warm,  and  longer 
in  cold  weather:  a  haunch  of  from  12  to  18  pounds  will  be 
done  in  about  three  or  three  and  a  half. 

A  quarter  of  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  the  string  must  be 
cut,  and  the  paste  carefully  taken  off;  now  baste  it  with 
butter,  dredge  it  lightly  with  flour,  and  when  the  froth  rises, 
and  it  has  got  a  very  light  brown  colour,  garnish  the  knuckle* 
bone  with  a  ruffle  of  cut  writing-paper,  and  send  it  up,  with 
good,  strong  (but  unseasoned)  gravy  (No.  347)  in  one  boat, 
anfl  currant-jeUy  sauce  in  the  other,  or  currant-jelly  in  a  side 
plate  (not  melted) :  see  for  sauces,  Nos.  344,  5,  6,  and  7. 
MsM.  ^the  aldemuLfCs  waW*  is  the  favourite  part. 

Obs.  Buck  venison  is  in  greatest  perfection  from  midsum^ 
mer  to  Michaelmas,  and  doe  from  November  to  January* 


140  iftAftnia. 

J>reek  and  Sfundder  ff  Fmfon,*(No.  €4.) 

Ase  to  be  managed  in  the  same  way  aa  the  hauQ<di;,OBly 
they  do  not  require  the  coat  or  paste,  and  wiU  not  take  eo 
much  time* 

The  beat  way  to  spit  aneck  is  to  put  three  idcewers  throu^ 
it,  and  put  the  spit  between  the  skewers  and  the  bones. 

j9  Fawfi,--(No.  65.) 

Like  a  sucking-pig,  should  be  dressed  almost  as  soon  as 
killed*  When  very  young,  it  is  trussed,  stitfed,  and  fitted 
the  same  way  as  a  hare :  out  they  are  better  eating  when  of 
the  siee  of  a  house  lamb,  and  are  tiien  roasted  in  quarters; 
the  hind-quarter  is  most  esteemed. 

They  must  be  put  down  to  a  very  quick  fire,  and  either 
basted  all  the  time  they  are  roasting,  or  be  covered  with 
sheets  of  fat  bacon;  when  done,  baste  it  with  butter,  and 
dredge  it  with  a  little  salt  and  flour,  till  you  make  a  nice  froth 
on  it 

N.B.  We  advise  our  friends  to  half  roast  a  fown  as  soon 
as  they  receive  it,  and  then  make  ahash  of  it  like  No.  5a8» 

Send  up  venison  sauce  with  it.  See  the  preceding  rec^[rfi> 
or  No.  344,  &c* 

A  £m2.— (No.  65*.) 

A  young  sucking-kid  is  very  good  eating;  to  have  it  ia 
prime  condition,  the  dam  should  1^  kept  up,  and  well  fed*  &c« 
Roast  it  like  a  fawn  or  hare. 

jffiirB.— (No.  66.) 

The  first  points  of  consideration  are,  how  old  is  the  hare  ! 
and  how  long  has  it  been  killed?  "When  young,  it  is  easy 
of  digestion,  and  very  nourii^iing;  when  old,  the  contrary  in 
every  respect. 

To  ascertain  the  age,  examine  the  first  joint  of  the  forefoot ; 
you  will  find  a  small  knob,  if  it  is  a  leveret,  which  disappears 
as  it  grows  older ;  then  examine  the  ears,  if  thev  tear  easily, 
it  wm  eat  tender;  if  they  are  tough,  so  will  be  the  have, 
which  we  advise  you  to  make  into  soup  (No.  241),  or  stew  or 
'  jug  it  (No.  623). 

when  newly  killed,  the  body  is  stiff;  as  it  grows  stale,  it 
becomes  limp. 

As  soon  as  you  receive  a  hare,  take  out  the  Uver,  paiboil 


BQUTINCI.  141 

it,  and  ke^  itfor  ibe  stoiBw;  tome  aie  very fiMii  df  it  Do 
not  use  h  H  it  be  not  quite  nesh  and  good*  Some  mince  it» 
and  said  it  up  as  a  garaiah  in  little  hSloeka  mnnd  the  dish. 
Wipe  the  hare  quite  diy,  nib  the  mside  with  pepper,  and  hanf 
it  up  in  a  dxy,  cool  place. 

Paunch  and  dcin*  your  haie,  wash  it,  and  lay  it  in  a  larfs 
pan  of  cold  water  four  or  it^  hours,  changing  the  water  two 
or  three  times;  lay  it  in  a  dean  cloth,  and  coy  it  well,  then 
truss  it. 

To  make  the  stuffing,  see  No.  379.  Do  not  make  it  too 
thin ;  it  should  be  of  cebesiye  consistence :  if  it  is  not  suf- 
ficiently stiff,  it  is  good  for  nothing.  Put  this  into  the  bdly, 
and  sew  it  up  tight. 

Cut  the  neck-skin  to  let  the  blood  out,  or  it  will  never 
appear  to  be  done  enough;  spit  it,  and  baste  it  witii  drip* 
puigs,t  (or  the  juices  of  tne  back  will  be  dried  up  before  the 
upper  joints  of  the  legs  are  half  done,)  tiU  you  think  it  is 
nearly  done,  which  a  middling-sized  hare  will  be  in  about  an 
hour  and  a  quarter.  When  it  is  almost  roasted  enouf^  put 
a  little  bit  of  butter  into  your  basting-ladle,  and  baste  it  Mrith 
this,  and  flour  it,  and  froth  it  nicely. 

Serve  it  with  good  gravy  (No.  339,  or  No.  347),  and  currant- 
jelly.  For  another  stuffing,  see  receipt  No.  379.  Some  cooks 
tni  off  the  head  and  divide  it,  and  lay  one  half  on  each  side 
the  hare. 

Gold  roast  hare  will  make  excellent  soup  (No.  241), 
chopped  to  pieces,  and  stewed  in  three  quarts  of  water  for  a 
couple  of  hours ;  die  stuffing  will  be  a  very  agreeable  substi- 
tute for  sweet  herbs  and  seasoning.  See  receipt  for  hare 
soup  (No.  241),  hashed  hare  (No.  529),  and  mock  hare,  next 
receipt. 

Modi  Ham--<No.66.*) 

Cut  out  the  fillet  (».  e.  the  inside  lean)  of  a  sirloin  of  beef, 
leaving  the  fat  to  roast  with  the  joint.  Prepare  some  niee 
stuffing,  as  directed  for  a  hare  in  No.  66,  or  379 ;  put  this  on 
the  beef,  and  roll  it  up  with  tape,  put  a  skewer  through  it, 
and  tie  that  on  a  spit. 

*  This,  in  euUiiaiy  teehnicata,  to  ealM  eav^ltj  upon  tbe  tuut  priiidple  that 
u  eattngt  drinking,  and  deeping,**  are  termed  iiMMMMrab. 

t  Mn.  Charlotte  Mason,  in  her  ^^CntpUu  Sfsttm  of  GseikMnv**  page  983,  aays, 
«he  IHM  <*  tried  a&  the  diebrem  things  recommended  to  baMB  a  hate  inth,  and  nev^ 
Amnd  nay  thing  so  geod  jm  tmmtlbuf;*^  othen  oidsr  siOft;  dHpptiui  we  bdieve  is 
ketter  than  any  thing.  To  ronat  a  hare  nicelyjso  as  to  pceserye  the  meat  on  the 
hacic,  dfce.  Juicy  and  nutritive,  ireqnires  as  much  attention  as  a  sucldngiilg. 

Btttead  of  washing,  a  **  grand  ddtiaitr"  sajrs,  it  is  much  better  to  wipe  a  bare 
with  a  thin,  dry  cloth,  as  feo  orach  waahhig,  or  indeed  waihilig  at  all,  take»  away 
the  flavour. 


us  ROASTING. 

O&f.  U  Ibe  beef  is  of  prime  quality^  has  been  kept  till  tho^ 
lougbly  tender,  and  you  serve  with  it  the  accompaniments 
that  usnally  attend  roast  hare  (Nos.  399,  344,  &c*),  or  stew  it, 
and  serve  it  with  a  rich  thickened  sauce  garnished  with  force- 
meat balls  (No.  379),  the  most  fastidious  palate  will  have  no 
reason  to  remt  that  the  game  season  is  over. 

To  make  this  into  hare  soup,  see  No.  341. 

AiUtl.— (No.  67.) 

If  your  fire  is  clear  and  sharp,  thirty  minutes  will  roast  a 
young,  and  forty  a  full-grown  rabbit. 

When  you  lay  it  down,  baste  it  with  butter,  and  dredge  it 
lightly  and  carefidly  with  flour,  that  you  ma3r  have  it  frothy, 
and  of  a  fine  light  brown.  While  the  rabbit  is  roasting,  boil 
its  liver*  with  some  parsley;  when  tender,  chop  them  toge- 
ther, and  put  half  the  mixture  into  some  melted  butter, 
reserving  the  other  half  for  garnish,  divided  into  little  hillocks. 
Cat  offtne  head,  and  lay  half  on  each  side  of  the  dish. 

Obi*  A  fine,  well-grown  f  but  young)  warren  rabbit,  kept 
some  time  after  it  has  been  Killed,  and  roasted  with  a  stuffing 
in  its  belly,  eats  veiy  like  a  hare,  to  the  nature  of  which  it 
aiqproaches.  It  is  nice,  nourishing  food  when  young,  but  hard 
ana  unwholesome  when  old.  For  sauces,  Nos.  287,  398, 
and  329. 

PAtfOMfn^.— (No.  68.) 

Requires  a  smart  fire,  but  not  afierce  one.  Thirty  minutes 
will  roast  a  younff  bird,  and  forty  or  fifty  a  full-grown  phea- 
sant. Kck  and  Smw  it,  cut  a  slit  in  the  back  of  the  neck, 
and  take  out  the  craw,  but  don't  cut  the  head  ofi";  wipe  the 
inside  of  the  bird  with  a  clean  clo^  twist  the  legs  close  to 
the  body,  leave  the  feet  on,  but  cut  the  toes  off;  donH  turn 
the  head  under  the  wing,  but  truss  it  like  a  fowl,  it  is  much 
easier  to  carve;  baste  it,  butter  and  froth  it,  and  prepare 
sauce  for  it  (Nos.  921  and  329).  See  the  instructions  in 
receipts  to  roast  fowls  and  turkeys,  Nos.  57  and  58. 

Obs.  We  believe  the  rarity  of  this  bird  is  its  best  recom- 
mendation; and  the  character  given  it  by  an  ingenious  French 
author  is  just  as  good  as  it  deserves.  "  Its  flesh  is  naturally 
tough,  and  owes  all  its  tenderness  and  succidence  to  the  long 
lime  it  is  kept  before  it  is  cooked ;"  until  it  is  "  Inen  mortifi6e^ 
it  is  uneataUe.f    Therefore,  instead  of  '<  mm  p%r  col,*"  suspend 

*  Liver  laiiee,  Nos.  S87  and  9B8. 

T  **  They  are  onljr  fit  to  be  eaten  when  the  blood  rum  from  the  bni.  which  i«  com- 
moQly  aboot  6  or  7  daya  after  they  have  been  fcUled,  otherwise  it  wUl  have  t»  more 
ravoor  than  a  common  fowl.'*-*  UtU*t  Co0kcrf^  8va  1919,  page  ei«. ' 


nukflTZNtt.  143 

it  by  one  of  the  long  Uil-feathera,  and  tfie  pheasanfe  laBiiig 
from  it  is  the  criterion  of  its  ripeness  and  readiness  for  the 
spit. 

On»  president  of  the  committee  of  taste  (who  is  inde- 
fatigable  in  his  endeavours  to  improve  the  health,  as  well  as 
promote  the  enjoyment,  of  his  fellow-students  in  the  school 
of  good  living,  and  to  whom  the  epicure,  the  economist,  and 
the  valetudi^irian  aro  equally  indebted  for  his  careftd  re- 
vision of  this  work,  uid  especially  for  introducing  that  salu- 
tary maxim  into  the  kitchen,  that  ^  the  salubrious  is  ever  a 
sui)erior  consideration  to  the  savoury,**  and  indeed,  the 
rational  epicure  only  relishes  the  latter  when  entirdy  subor^ 
dinate  to  the  former),  has  suffgested  to  us,  that  the  detach- 
ment of  the  feather  cannot  take  jdace  until  the  body  of  the 
bird  has  advanced  moro  than  one  degree  beyond  the  state  of 
wholesome  haut-gM^  and  become  **trop  mokUUe;'"  and  thai 
to  enjoy  this  game  in  perfecti<ni,  you  must  have  a  brace  of 
birds  killed  tl^  same  day;  these  are  to  be  put  in  suspense 
as  above  directed,  and  wnen  one  of  them  dnpif  the  hour  is 
come  tiiat  the  spit  should  be  introduced  to  his  companion :— • 

**  Ultra  cUrofue  neqtsU  comi^ere  rectum*^ 

Mock  PheasafU.'^No.  €9.) 

If  you  have  only  one  pheasant,  and  wish  for  a  companion 
for  it,  get  a  fine  young  fowl,  of  as  near  as  may  be  the  same 
size  as  the  bird  to  be  matched,  and  make  game  of  it  by  truss- 
ing it  like  a  pheasant,  and  dressing  it  according  to  the  above 
directions.  Few  persons  will  discover  the  pheasant  from  the 
fowl,  especially  if  the  latter  has  been  kept  four  or  five  days. 

The  peculiar  flavour  of  the  pheasant  (like  that  of  other 
game)  is  principally  acquired  by  long  keeping. 

Otdnea  mnd  Pea  Fovd,— (No.  69*.) 
Are  dressed  in  the  same  way  as  pheasants. 

Partridgesr^fio.  70.) 

Are  cleaned  and  trussed  in  the  same  manner  as  a  pheasant 
(but  the  ridiculous  custom  of  tucking  the  legs  into  each 

"GtatroiNiiien.  wbd  baTeaoy  tort  of  sveiitoa  tea  peeuHar  taMf  in  g^^ 
Kept,  had  better  abatahi  ftom  this  bird,  atnce  it  i«  wqirae  than  a  eommon  fowl,  if  not 
waited  for  tlH  it  aequtros  the  fumet  it  ought  to  have.  Whole  repabUca  of  manoi" 
have  often  been  iband  rioting  under  tlie  winp  of  pheatantB ;  but  being  rodiccl^ 
dliperBed,  and  the  Urda  proporly  washed  with  vinegar,  every  thing  went  right,  am 
every  gucnrt,  unconaciooa  of  the  culinary  ablntions,  enjoyed  the  eieellent  flavour  oi 
the  PlnidaD  Uidi.*'- 7«»«0a  COcn'a,  p.  55. 


144  SOAITCT0. 

oflier  miiktB  them  vory  tionblesome  to  carve) ;  the  breaet  if 
•o  plump*  it  will  require  almost  as  much  roaurtingf;  send  up 
with  them  rich  sauce  (No.  331*),  or  bread  sauce  (No.  SSI), 
and  good  graty  (No.  339). 

%*  If  you  wish  to  preserve  them  longer  than  you  think 
ilMqr  will  keep  good  undressed,  half  roast'  them,  they  will 
then-keep  two  or  three  days  longer ;  or  make  a  pie  of  them* 

Bladt  Cock  (No.  71),  Moor  GamB  (No.  79),  and  Growe, 

(No.  73.) 

Ate  all  to  be  dressed  like  partridges ;  the  black  cock  will 
take  as  much  as  a  pheasant,  and  moor  game  and  grouse  as 
the  partridge.  Send  up  with  them  currant-jelly  and  fried 
bread-crumbs  (No.  ^0). 

WUd  Dtidb.— (No.  74.) 

For  roasting  a  wild  duck,  you  must  have  a  clear,  brisk  fire, 
and  a  hot  spit ;  it  must  be  browned  upon  the  outside,  without 
being  sodden  within.  To  have  it  well  frothed  and  fuU  of 
gravy  is  the  nicety.  Prepare  the  fire  by  stirring  and  raking 
it  Just  before  the  bird  is  laid  down,  and  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes  will  do  it  in  the  fashionable  way ;  but  if  you  like  it 
a  little  more  done,  allow  it  a  few  minutes  longer ;  if  it  is  too 
much,  it  will  lose  its  flavour. 

For  the  sauce,  see  No.  338  and  No.  62* 

Widgwns  and  Tea/,— (No.  75.) 

Are  dressed  exactly  as  the  wild  duck;  only  that  less  time 
is  requisite  for  a  widgeon,  and  still  less  for  a  teal. 

rFoocfcocfe.— (No.  76.) 

Woodcocks  should  not  be  drawn,  as  the  trail  is  by  the 
lovers  of  ^havt  goGsT  considered  a  ^^honne  bauche;^^  truss 
their  legs  close  to  the  body,  and  run  an  iron  skewer  through 
each  thigh,  close  to  the  body,  and  tie  them  on  a  small  iHrd 
spit ;  put  them  to  roast  at  a  clear  fire ;  cut  as  many  slices 
of  bread  as  you  have  birds,  toast  or  fry  them  a  delicate 
brown,  and  lay  them  in  the  dripping-pan  under  the  birds 
to  catch  the  trail;*  baste  them  with  butter,  and  froth 

*  **  This  MrA  has  to  tntinoattd  f twlf  into  Uie  ftrroar  of  nifbui  gowrmMub^  that 
they  nay  it  the  same  bonows  as  the  grand^Lama,  BCiddiu:  a  ragoAt  m  its  eicreinentSf 
and  HleYoaring  them  with  ecstasy.'^— Vide  Mmanaeh  ie»  Oowmmda^  voL  i.  p.  56. 

That  exercise  produces  strength  and  firmness  of  fibre  is  excellently  well  exempli- 
fied  in  the  voodeoek  and  the  partridge.    The  foraier  flies  most— the  lauer  waild ; 


n/diMsmno.  Ii6 


ihem  with  ikrar ;  lay  the  total  mi  a  hot  di«h,  and  the 
on  the  toast;  pdtii  some  good  beef  gravy  into  the  dishy 
and  send  somie  up  in  a  bont,  see  Obt.  to  No*  399 :  twenty 
or  thirty  minutes  will  roast  them.  Gamish  with  idices 
of  lemon. 

Obs. — Some  epicures  like  this,  bird  very  much  under-done^ 
and  direct  that  a  woodcock  should  be  just  introduced  to 
the  cook,  for  her  to  show  it  the  fire,  and  then  send  it  up 
to  table. 

S^es,— (No.  77.) 

Bifler  little  from  woodcocks,  unless  in  size;  they  are  to 
be  dressed  in  the  same  way,  but  require  about  five  minutes 
less  time  to  roast  them. 

For  sauce,  see  No.  338. 

Pi^TCOw.— (No.  78.) 

When  the  pigeons  are  ready  for  roasting,  if  you  are 
desired  to  stun  them,  chop  some  green  parsley  very  fine,  the 
liver,  and  a  bit  of  butter  together,  with  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  or  with  the  stuffing  ordered  for  a  fillet  of  veal  (No.  374 
or  No.  375),  aiid  fill  the  belly  of  each  bird  with  it.  They 
will  be  done  enough  in  about  twenty  or  thirty  minutes ;  send 
up  parsley  and  butter  (No.  261,)  in.the  dish  under  them,  and 
some  in  a  boat,  and  gamish  witn  crisp  parsley  (No.  318),  or 
fried  bread  crumbs  (No.  330),  or  bread  sauce  (No.  331)^  or 
gravy  (No.  329). 

Ote. — ^When  pigeons  are  fresh  they  have  their  full  relish ; 
^ut  it  goes  entirely  off  with  a  very  uttle  keeping ;  nor  is  it 
in  any  way  so  well  preserved  as  by  roasting  them :  when  they 
are  put  into  a  pie  they  are  generally  baked  to  rags,  and  taste 
more  of  pepper  and  salt  than  of  Buy  thing  else. 

A  little  melted  butter  may  be  put  into  the  dish  with  them, 
and  the  gravy  that  runs  from  them  will  mix  With'it  into  fine 
sauce.  Pigeons  are  in  the  greatest  perfection  from  mid- 
summer to  Michaelmas ;  there  is  then  the  most  plentiful  and 
best  food  for  them;  and  their  finest  growth  is  just  when  they 
are  full  feathered.  When  they  are  in  the  pen-feathers,  they 
sure  flabby;  when  they  are  full  grown,  and  have  flown  some 
time,  they  are  tough.    Game  and  poultry  are  best  when  they 

the  wiDf  of  die  woodeoek  ie  ahraye  yery  tougli,— of  tbe  paitridie  veiy  tender; 

"  If  tbB  partridge  had  but  tbe  f§oode4ck*s  tbtgb. 
He  *d  be  tbe  best  bird  that  e'er  doth  Sy.** 
Thttriott  of  aU  bMi  tai  the  mott  Juicy  and  nntiitioaa  part 

N 


*» 


146  FRYING. 

have  just  done  growing,  t.  e.  as  soonaa  nature  has  perfected 
her  work. 

This  was  the  secret  of  Solomon,  the  famous  pigeon-feeder 
of  Tuinham  -Green,  who  is  celebrated  by  the  poet  Gay, 
when  he  says, 

**That  Turaham  GraeS,  which  dainty  plgeani  ftd, 
But  fteds  no  mora,  for  Sohwum  ia  dead/' 

Larh  amd  ether  samU  ^tr<2f .— (No.  80.) 

These  delicate  little  birds  are  in  high  season  in  November* 
When  they  are  picked,  gutted,  and  cleaned,  truss  them; 
brush  them  with  the  yelk  of  an  eglg,  and  then  roll  them  in 
Ivead-crumbs :  spit  them  on  a  lark-spit,  and  tie  that  on  to  a 
larger  spit ;  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  at  a  quick  fa^  will  do  them 
enough ;  baste  them  with  fresh  butter  while  they  are  roasting, 
and  sprinkle  them  with  bread-crumbs  till  tney  are  well 
covered  with  them. 

For  the  sauce,  fry  some  grated  bread  in  clarified  butter, 
see  No.  359,  and  set  it  to  xlrain  before  the  fire,  that  it  may 
harden :  serve  the  crumbs  under  the  larks  when  you  dish 
them,  and  garnish  them  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Wheatearsr-(^o.  81.) 
Are  dressed  in  the  same  way  as  larks. 

Lobster.— {"So.  82.) 

See*  receipt  for  boiling  (No.  176). 

We  give  no  receipt  for  roasting  lobster,  tongue,  &c.  being 
of  opinion  with  Dr.  King,  who  says, 

"  By  roaflting  that  which  oar  forefkthen  boiled, 
And  boiling  what  they  roasted,  much  is  spoiled." 


FRYING. 

To  clarify  Drippings. — (No.  83.) 

Put  your  dripping  into  a  clean  sauce-pan  over  a  stove  or 
slow  fiie;  when  it  is  just  going  to  boil,  skim  it  well,  let  it 
boil,  and  then  let  it  stand  till  it  is  a  little  cooled;  thei>  pour  it 
through  a  sieve  into  a  pan.  « 


FBYINO.  147 

O&s.— WeU-cieansed  drippingSfl*  and  the  fat  skimmingBt 
of  the  broth-poty  when  fresh  and  sweet,  will  baste  eveiy 
thin?  as  well  as  butter,  except  game  and  poultry,  and  should 
supj^y  the  place  of  butter  for  common  frys,  &c.;  for  which 
they  areequal  to  lard,  especially  if  you  i^^at  the  clarifjring 
twice  over. 

N.B.  If  you  keep  it  in  a  cool  place,  you  may  preserve- it  a 
fortnight  in  summer,  and  longer  in  winter.  When  you  have 
done  frying,  let  the  dripping  stand  a  few  minutes  to  settle, 
and  then  pour  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  basin  or  stone 
pan,  and  it  will  do  a  second -and  a  third  time  as  well  as  it 
did,  the  first ;  only  the  fat  you  have  fried  fishnn  must  not  be 
used  for  any  other  purpose. 

To  clarify  Suet  to  fry  wUh.^No.  84.) 

Cut  beef  or  mutton  suet  into  thin  slices,  pick  out  all  the 
veins  and  skins,  &c.,  put  it  into  a  thick  and  well-tinned 
sauce-pan,  and  set  it  over  a  very  slow  stove,  or  in  an  oven, 
till  it  is  melted ;  you  must  not  hurry  it ;  if  not  done  very 
slowly  it  will  acquire  a  burnt  taste,  which  you  cannot  get 
rid  of;  then  strain  it  through  a  hair-^eve  into  a  clean  brown 

*  Mr8.  Mklroi,  in  ber  Eam^mieal  C»0ter]r,  rage  7,  telli  us,  she  has  aseertained 
At>m  actual  dqierimeiits,  tbat "  the  dr^ing»  of  roast  meat,  combliwd  with  wheat 
flour,  oatmeal,  barley,  pease,  or  potato-starch,  will  make  dfdicious  soup,  agreeable 
and  savoury  to  ibc  palate,  and  nutritive  and  serviceable  to  the  stomach ;  and  that 
while  a  joint  is  roasting,  good  soup  may  be  made  from  the  drippings  of  the  fat, 
which  is  the  etsaue  of  meat,  as  seeds  are  of  vegetables,  and  iffl|Hregnalee  soinp  witk 
the  identical  taete  of  meat." 

"  Writiefs  on  cookory  give  strict  direetions  to  carefldiv  ekim  oW  tie  fat,  and  in  the 
next  sentence  order  butter  (a  much  more  expensive  arode)  to  be  admd :  instead  of 
this,  when  anv  iht  appears  at  the  top  of  your  soup  or  stew,  do  not  ekim  it  oil,  but 
mite  it  with  the  broth  by  means  of  the  yegetaUe  mucilages,  fldur,  oatmeal,  ground 
Iwrley,  or  potato-starch ;  wlien  suspended  the  soup  is  equally  agie^le  to  the  palate 
nutritive  to  the  stomach,**  dec 

^'^Cooks  besiow  a  great  deal  of  pains  to  make  gravies :  they  stew  and  boil  lenn 
meat  for  hours,  and,  after  all,  their  cookery  tastes  more  of  pepper  and  salt  than  any 
thing  dse.  If  they  would  add  the  bulk  <x  achesnntof  sohd  mt  to  a  common-siEed 
sauce-boatful  of  gravy,  it  will  give  it  more  sapidity  than  twenty  hours*  stewing  lean 
meat  would,  unless  a  larger  quantity  was  used  than  is  warranted  by  the  rules  of 
firag&lity.**    See  Noe.  905  and  SS9.  _ 

W"  The  experiments  of  Dr.  Stark  on  the  nourishing  powers  of  difierant  substances, 
go  very  far  to  prove  that  three  ounces  of  the  fat  of  boiled  beef  are  equal  to  a  pound 
of  the  lean.  Dr.  'Pages,  the  traveller,  confirms  this  opinion :  *  Being  obliged,*  says 
he,*  during  the  Journey  from  North  to  South  America  by  land,  to  live  solely  on 
animal  food,  I  experienced  the  truth  of  what  is  observ^  by  hunters,  who  live  solely 
On  animal  food,  via.  that  besides  their  receiving  little  nourishment  from  the  leaner 
parts  of  it,it  soon  Itecomes  ofibnrive  to  the  taste ;  whereas  tiie  (ht  is  botii  more  nutri- 
tive, and  continues  to  be  agreeable  to  the  palate.  To  many  stomachs  fiat  ia  un{doa- 
aant  and  indigestible,  especially  when  converted  into  oil  by  lieat;  this  may  be  easily 
prevented,  by  the  simfde  process  of  combining  the  fht  comj^etely  with  water,  by  the 
intervoBtion  of  vegetable  mucilage,  as  hi  metting  bimer.  by  noeans  of 'flour,  the 
butter  and  water  are  united  hito  a  hotn(^neou8  fluM.' "— from  Praetieal  Etonomf^ 
try  a  Pkysieiak.    Callow,  1801. 

t  See  note  at  the  foot  of  No.  201.        . 


148  FSTmo. 

pan :  when  quite  eold,  tie  a  paper  over  it,  and  keep  it  for 
use.    Ho^s  lard  is  prepiu^d  in  the  same  way. 

06*.— Tlie  waste  occasioned  by  the  present  absurd  fashion 
of  over-feeding  cattle  till  the  fat  is  nearly  equal  to  the  ldan« 
may,  by  good  management,  be  in  some  measure  prevented^ 
by  cuttmg  off  the  superfluous  part,  and  preparing  it  as  above, 
or  by  making  it  into  puddings;  see  Nos.  551  and  554,  or 
soiqs  No.  339. 

SfiWJb.— (No.  85.) 

Cut  the  steaks  rather  thinner  than  for  broiling.  Put  some 
butter,  or  No.  83,  into  ah  iron  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is 
hot,  lay  in  the  steaks,  and  keep  turning  them  till  they  are 
done  enough.  For  sauce,  see  No.  356,  and  for  the  accom- 
paniments, No.  94. 

Obs>  Unless  the  fire  be  prepared  on  purpose,  we  like  this 
way  of  cooking  them ;  the  gravy  is  preserved,  and  the  meat 
is  more  equally  dressed,  and  more  evenly  browned;  which 
makes  it  more  relishing,  and  invites  the  eye  to  encourage 
the  appetite. 

Beef'gteaks  and  Onions. — {"So.  86.    See  also  No.  501.) 

Fry  the  steaks  according  to  the  directions  given  in  the 
preceding  receipt;  and  have  ready  for  them  some  onions 
prepared  as  directed  in  No.  299. 

For  stewed  rump-steaks,  see  Nos.  500  and  501* 

Sausages^ — (No,  87.) 

Are  best  when  quite  fresh  made.  Put  a  bit  of  butter,  or 
dripping  (No.  83),  into  a  clean  frying-pan ;  as  soon  as  it  is 
melted  (before  it  gets  hot)  piit  in  the  sausages,  and  shake 
the  pan  for  a  minute,  and  keep  turmng  them  Xhe  careful  not 
to  break  or  prick  them  in  so  doing) ;  fry  them  over  a  very 
slow  fire  till  they  are  nicely  browned  <m  all  sides ;  when  thev 
are  done,  lay  them  on  a  hair-sieve,  placed  before  the  fire  fdr 
a  couple  of  miiiutes  to. drain  the  fat  from  them.  The  secret 
t)f  frying  sausages  is,  to  let  them  get  hot  very  gradually; 
they  then  will  not  burst,  if  they  are  not  stale. 

The  common  practice  to  prevent  their  bursting,  is  to  prick 
them  with  a  fork ;  but  this  lets  the  gravy  out. 

You  may  froth  them  by  rubbing  them  with  cold  fresh  but- 
ter, and  lightly  dredge  them  with  flour,  and  put  them  in  a 
cheese-toaster  or  Dutch  oven  for  a  minute. 

Some  over-economical  cooks  insist  that  no  butter  or  lard, 


miNo;  149 

&c.  is  leqnrndt  their  own  fat  being  sufficient  to  fry  them: 
we  hare  tried  it ;  the  sausages  were  partially  scorched^  and 
had  that  piebald  appearance  that  all  fried  things  have  when 
sufficient  fat  is  not  sulowed. 

Obi.  Poached  eggs  (No.  548\  piease-pndding  (No.  655)« 
and  mashed  potatoes  (No.  106)  are  agreeable  accompam* 
ments  to  sausages;  and  sausages  are  as  welcome  with 
boiled  or  roasted  poultry  or  veal,  or  boiled  tripe  (No.  18) ;  so 
are  ready-dressea  German  sausages  (see  Menu  to  No.  13); 
and  a  ccmyenient,  easily  digestible,  ana  invigorating  food  for 
the  agedy  and  those  whose  teeth  are  defeetive ;  as  is  also 
No.  503.  For  sauce  No.  ^56 ;  to  make  mustard,  Nos.  369 
and  370. 

N.B.  Sausages,  when  finely  chopped,  are  a  del^pate  ^  bomu 
bciuthe  ;^  and  require  very  iitde  assistance  fnm  the  teeth  ta 
render  them  quite  ready  for  the  stomach. 

Sa>e^read$  Jidl^reited.'^No.  S8.) 

Parboil  them,  and  let  them  get  cold ;  then  cut  them  in 
pieces,  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick  t  dip  them  in 
the  yelk  of  an  eggf  then  in  fine  bread-crumbs  (some  add 
spice,  lemon-peel,  and  sweet  herbs) ;  put  some  clean  drip- 
pmg  (No.  83)  into  a  frying-pan:  wnen  it  boils,  put  in  the 
sweeiiireadB,  and  fry  titenr  s  ^b»  browa.  For  gamish,  crisp 
parsley ;  and  for  sauce,  mushroom  catchup  and  melted  but- 
ter, or  anchovy  sauce,  or  Nos.  356,  343,  or  343*,  or  bacon  or 
ham»  as  Nos.  526  and  537. 

iSsvutbreads  pladfu — (No.  89.)« 

Parboil  and  slice  them  as  before,  dry  them  on  a  clean  cloth, 
flour  them,  and  fry  them  a  delicate  brown ;  take  care  to  drain 
the  fat  wefi  from  them,  and  garnish  them  with  slices  of 
lemon,  and  sprigs  of  chervil  or  parsley,  or  crisp  parsley 
(No»  318).  For  sauce,  No.  356,  or  No.  307,  and  sfices  of 
ham  or  bacon,  as  No.  536,  or  No.  537,  or  forcemeat  baUs 
made  as  Nos.  375  and  ^78. 

*«*  Take  care  to  have  a  fresh  sweetbread ;  it  spoils  sooner 
than  almost  any  th^,  therefore  should  be  parboiled  as  soon 
as  it  comes  in.  This  is  called  blanching,  or  setting  it ;  mut- 
ton kidneys  (No.  95)  are  sometimes  broUed  and  sent  up  witii 
sweetbreads. 

Ffd  Cuaet8.-^No.  90  and  No,  531.) 

Let  your  cutlets  be  about  half  an  inch  thick ;  trim  them* 

Nd 


150  FXTUIO. 

and  flatten  them  with  a  cleaver ;  yo^u  may  fry  th^d  in  freah 
butter,  or  good  drippinips  (No.  83) ;  when  brovm  on  one  side, 
turn  ^m  and  do  the  otner;  if  the  iire  is  very  fierce,  they 
must  change  sides  oftener.  The  time  they  will  take  depends 
on  ih&  thickness  of  the  cutlet  and  the  heat  of  the  fire;  half 
an  inch  thick  will  take  about  fifteen  minutes.  Make  some 
gravy,  by  putting  the  trimmings  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little 
soft  water,  an  onion,  a  roll  of  lemon-peel,  a  blade  of  mace» 
a  sprig  of  thyme  and  parsley,  and  a  bay  leaf;  stew  over  a 
slow  fire  an  hour,  then  strain  it ;  put  an  ounce  of  butter  into 
a  stew-pan ;  as  soon  as  it  is  melted,  mix  with  it  as  much 
flour  as  will  dry  it*  up,  stir  it  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  add  tiie  gravy  by  degrees  till  it  is  all  mixed,  boil  it  for 
five  minutes^  and  strain  it  through  a  tamis  sieve,  and  put  it  to 
the  cutlets;  you  may  add  some  browning  (No.  322),  mush- 
room (No.  439),  or  walnut  catchup,  or  lemon  pickle,  &c. ; 
see  also  sauces,  Nos.  343  and  348.    Or^ 

Cut  the  veal  into  pieces  about  as  big  as  a  crown-piece^ 
beat  them  with  a  cleaver,  dip  them  in  eggs  beat  up  witii  a 
little  salt,  and  then  in  fine  bread-crumbs ;  fry  them  a  light 
brown  in  boiling  lard ;  serve  under  them  some  good  gravy 
or  mushroom  sauce  (No.  307),  ^hich  may  be  made  in  five 
minutes.  Garnish  with  slices  of  ham  or  rashers  of  bacon 
(Nos.  S26  and  527),  or  pork  sausages  (No.  87)i 

0&«.  Veal  forcemeat  or  siumng  (Nos.  374,  37$,  and  378% 
pork  sausages  (No.  87),  rashers  of  bacon  (Nos.  526  and 
6527),  are  very  relishing  accompaniments,  fried  and  sent  up 
in  tne  form  of  balls  or  cakes,  and  laid  round  as  a  ganiish* 


LambfOr  MUian  ChopSf^No.  92.) 

Ar6  dressed  in  the  same  way,. and  garnished  with  crupp 
parsley  (No.  318)  and  slices  of  lemon. 

If  tiiey  are  bread-crgmbed  and  covered  with  buttered 
writing-paper,  and  then  broiled,  they  are  called  **  maintenon 
<nitlets." 

Pork  C%?5.— (No.  93.) 

Cut  the  chops  about  half  an  inch  thick ;  trim  them  neatly 
(few  cooks  have  any  idea  how  much  credit  they  get  by  this) ; 
put  a  frying-pan  on  the  fixe,  with  a  bit  of  butter;  as  soon  as 
It  is  hot,  put  in  your  chops,  turning  them  often  till  brown  all 
over,  they  y^  be  done  enough  m  about  fifteen  minutes ; 


BBOHJNG.  151 

take  one  upon  a  plate  and  try  it ;  if  done,  season  it  with 
a  little  finely-minced  onion,  powdered  sage,  and  pepper  and 
salt.    For  gravy  and  sauce,  see  Nos.  300, 304,  341,  and  356. 

Obs,  A  little  powdered  sage,  &c.  strewed  over  thenif  will 
give,  them  a  nice  relish,  or  the  savoury  powder  in  No.  51,  or 
forcemeat  sausases  like  No.  378.  \ 

Do  not  have  tnem  cut  too  thick,  ahout  three  chops  to  an 
inch  and  a  quarter;  trim  them  neatly,  beat  them  flat,  have 
ready  some  sweet  herbs,  or  sage  and  onion  chopped  fine,  put 
them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  bit  of  butter  about  as  big  as  a 
walnut,  let  them  nave  one  fry,  beat  two  eggs  on  a  plate  with 
a  little  salt,"  add  to  them  the  herbs,  mix  it  all  well  together, 
dip  the  chops  in  one  at  ^  time  all  over,  and  then  Mrith  bread- 
crumbs fry  them  in  hot  lard  or  drippings  till  they  are  a  light 
brown* 

Obi.  Veal,  lamb,  or  mutton  chops,  are  very  good  dressed 
in  like  manner. 
.    To  fry  fish,  see  No.  145. 

N.B.  To  fry  eggs  and  omelets,  and  other  things,  see  No. 
545,  and  the  mdez. 


aaoiLDiG* 

'JOujps  or  Steak$.*^No.  94. ) 

To  stew  them,  see  No.  500,  ditto  with  onions,  No.  501. 

Thos|  who  are  nice  about  steaks,  never  attempt  to  have 
them,  except  in  weather  which  permits  the  meat  to  be  hung 
till  it  is  tender,  and  give  the  butcher  sdme  days-  notice  of 
their  wish  for  them. 

If,  friendly  reader,  ybu  wish  to  entertain*  your  mouth  with 
a  superlative  beef-steak^you  must  have  me  inside  of  the 
sirlom  cut  into  steaks.    The  next  best  steaks  are  those  cut 

*  Tbe  nuoo  for  tboee  is  from  the-SOtb  of  Sq^ttwtktr  to  the  fOiOkofMank;  to 
enmro  tbeir  being  tender  wbea  oat  of  seaaom,  stbw  thjui  m  in  racdpt  No.  SOO. 

TO  WARIC  UP  COLD  E1HIF4TBAXI. 

Lay  them  in  a  stew-pan,  with  one  large  onion  cut  in  qoartMv,  ilz  beniea  of  all- 
«|iiee,  the  saoie  of  black  pepper,  cover  the  steaks  with  boiling  water,  let  them  stew 
gently  one  Iwur,  thicken  the  liquor  with  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together  <m  a  plate ; 
if  a  pbit  of  gravy,  about  one  ounce  of  ilour,  and  the  like  weight  of  butter,  wUI  do ; 

i>ut  it  into  the  stew-paO|  shake  it  well  over  tbe  fire  for  five  minutoi,  and  it  is  ready ; 
ay  the  iteaka  and  onioM  da  a  dish  and  poor  the  gravy  throv^  a  Meve  over'them. 


l&ft  VRonssm, 

from  the  middle  of  a  nirap,  that  has  been  killed  at  least  fouf 
dajra  in  moderate  weather,  and  much  longer  in  cold  wealher« 
when  they  can.  be  cut  about  six  inches  long,  four  inches 
widey  ttoid  half  an  inch  thick :  do  not  beat  them,  which  Tulgar 
trick  breaks  the  cells  in  which  the  gravy  of  the  meat  is 
contained,  and  it  becomes  cbr  and  tasteless. 

N.B.  If  your  butcher  sends  steaks  whidi  are  nol  tender, 
we  do  not  insist  that  you  should  oligect  to  let  him  be  beaten* 

Desire  the  butcher  to  cut  them  of  even  tiuckness;  if  he 
does  not,  divide  the  thidier  from  the  tiunner;neces,  and  give 
them  time  accordingly. 

.  Take  care  to  have  a  very  clearrbrisk  fire ;  tlvow  a  little  salt 
on  it ;  make  the  gridircm  hot,  and  set  it  slMiting,  to  prevent 
the  fat  from  dropping  into  the  fire,  and  making  a  smwB.  It 
requires  more  practice  and  care  than  is  generally  supposed 
to  do  steaks  to  §l  nicety;  ajaKl  for  want  of  these  little  atten- 
tions, this  very  common  dish,  which  every  body  is  supposed 
cs^ble  of  dressing,  seldom  comes  to  table  in  perfection. 

Ask  those  vou  cook  for,  if  they  like  it  under,  or  dbiOrooghly 
done;  and  wnat  accompaniments  they  like  best;  it  is  usual 
to  put  a  table-spoonful  of  catchup  (No.  439),  or  a  little 
minced  eschalot,  or  No.  403,  into  a  dish  before  the  fiie ; 
while  you  are  broiling,  turn  the  steak,  &c.  with  a  pair  of 
steak-tongs,  it  will  be  d<me  in  about  ten  or  fifteen  mmutes ; 
rub  a  bit  of  butter  over  it,  and  send  it  up  garnished  with 
pickles  and  finely-scraped  horse-radish.  Nos.  135, 278, 299^ 
355,  403, 493,  439,  and  356,  are  the  sauces  usually  composed 
for  chops  and  steaks. 

N.B.  Macbeth's  rec^pt  for  beef-steaks  is  -the  best— 

— **  wkm  *t  U  done,  't  wen  ve^l 
{f  *t  were  dene  fuidO^." 


Q»w.  *  «w,  «^*->,.p.  *•«!  ^u«»  lie?  says  we  call  ^rametUtkj^ 
is  as  highly  esteemed  by  our  French  neigM>oui8,  as  th^ 
"  ragoOtiT  are  by  our  countiymen,  who 

"  post  to  Paris  go, 

Mer^  to  taste  tlieir  soups,  and  musliroGins  know." 

KiNs*s  ,^rt  of  Cookery f  p.  79. 

These  lines  were  written  before  the  establishment  of  Al- 
bion house,  Aldersgate  Street,  where  every  luxury  that  nature 
and  art  {iroduce  is  served  of  the  primest  quality,  and  in  the 
most  scientific  manner,  in  a  style  of  princely  magnificence 
and  perfect  comfort ;  the  wines,  liqueurs,  &c.  are  superlative. 


BsoniHO.  153 

and  every  department  of  the  business  6f  the  banquet  is  con- 
ducted in  the  most  liberal  manner. 

Thfe  French  author  whom  we  have  before  so  often  quoted, 
assures  Us  atnatewrt  de  bonne  Mre  on  the  other  side  of  the 
water,  it  is  well  worth  their  while  to  cross  the  channel  to 
taste  this  favourite  English  dish,  which,  when  ^motijfUe  d 
son  poinf*  and  well  dressed,  he  says,  is  superior  to  most  of 
the  subtle  double  relishes  of  the  Parisian  kitchen.  MfnO" 
nach  des  Gourmands^  vol.  i.  p.  37. 

Beef  is  justly  accounted  the  most  nutritious  animal  food, 
and  is  entitled  to  the  same  rank  among  solid,  that  brandy  is 
among  liquid  stimufi. 

The  celebrated  Trainsb,  Sir  Thomas  Parkvns,  of  Bunny 
Park,  Bart.,  in  his  book  on  WrestUngj  4to.  3a  edit.  1727,  p. 
10,  &;c.,  greatly  prefers  beef-eaters  to  sheep-biters,  as  he 
called  those  who  ate  mutton. 

When  Humphries'  the  pugilist,  was  trained  by  Ripsham, 
the  keeper  of  Ipswich  jail,  he  was  at  first  fed  on  beef,  but 
got  so  much  flesh,  it  was  changed  for  mutton,  roasted  or 
broiled :  when  broiled,  great  part  of  the  nutritive  juices  of 
the  meat  is  extracted.     • 

The  principles  upon  which  training*  is  conducted,  resolve 
themselves  into  temperance  without  abstemiousness,  and 
exercise  without  fatigfue. 

iSulncyf.— (No.  95.) 

Gut  them  through  the  long  way,  score  them,  sprinkle  a 
little  pepper  and  salt  on  them,  and  run  a  wire  skewer  through 
them  to  keep  them  from  curling  on  the  gridiron,  so  that  they 
may  be  evenly  broiled. 

Broil  them  over  a  very  clear  fire,  turning  them  often  till 
they  are  done ;  they  will  take  about  ten  or  twelve  minutes, 
if  the  fire  is  brisk :  or  fry  them  in  butter,  and  make  gravy 
for  them  in  the  pan  (after  you  have  taken  out  the  kidneys], 
by  puttmg  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour;  as  soon  as  it  lookis 
brown,  put  in  as  much  water  as  will  make  gravy ;  they  will 
take  five  minutes  more  to  fiy  than  to  broil.  For  sauce,  Nos. 
318,  355,  and  356. 

0&9.  Some  cooks  chop  a  few  parsley-leaves  veiy  fine,  and 
mix  them  with  a  bit  of  iresh  butter  and  a  little  pepper  and 
salH  and  put  a  little  of  this  mixture  on  each  kidney. 

*  See'^Tnt  Art  op  htnaotiAraa  aho  PtoLoiiaifs  Lira,*l  by  fhe  editor  of 
''  Tri  CooK'i  ObaolM."   PoMltlied  by  O.  B.  WUttaiwr,  No.  13,  Ave-Maite  Lane. 


154  BBOItlNG. 

A  fbwl  or  Rablnt,  <S*c.--(No.  97.) 

We  can  only  reoonunend  this  method  of  dressing  when 
the  fire  is  not  good  enough  for  roasting. 

Pick  and  truss  it  the  same  as  for  boiling,  cut  it  open  ddwn 
the  hack*  wipe  the  inside  clean  with  a  cloth,  season  it  with 
a  little  pepper  and  salt,  have  a  clear  fire,  and  set  the  gridiron 
at  a  good  oistance  over  it,  lay  the  chicken  on  with  the  inside 
towards  the  fire  (you  may  egg  it  and  strew  some  grated 
bread  over  it\  and  broil  it  till  it  is  a  fine  brown :  take  care 
the  fleshy  si^  is  not  burned.  Lay  it  on  a  hot  dish ;  pickled 
mushrooms,  or  mushroom  sauce  (No.  305V  thrown  over  it, 
or  parsley  and  butter  (No.  261),  or  melted  butter  flavoured 
wiw  mushroom  catchup  (No.  307). 

Garnish  it  with  slices  of  lemon;  and  the  liver  and  gi& 
zard  slit  and  notched,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
lm>iled  nicely  brown,  with  some  slices  of  lemon.  For  grill 
sauce,  see  No.  355. 

N.B.  *^It  was  a  great  mode,  and  taken  in>  by  the  court 
party  in  Oliver  Cromwell's  time,  to  roast  half  capons,  pre* 
tenmng  they  had  armore  exquisite  taste  and  nutriment  tnan 
when  dressed  whole.*'  See  Joan  Cromwell's  KUdim,  Lon- 
don, 1664,  page  39. 

PtgeonSf — (No.  98.) 

To  be  worth  the  trouble  of  picking,  must  be  well  grown^ 
and  well  fed. 

Clean  them  well,  and  pepper  and  salt  them;  broil  them 
over  a  clear,  slow  fire ;  turn  them  often,  and  put  a  little  but- 
ter on  them :  when  they  are  done,  pour  over  them,  either 
stewed  (No.  305)  or  pickled  mushrooms,  or  catchup  and 
melted  butter  (No.  307,  or  No.  348  or  355). 

Garnish  with  fried  bread-crumbs  or  sippets  (No.  319) :  or,, 
when  the  pigeons  are  trussed  as  for  boiling,  flat  them  with  a 
cleaver,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  skin  of  the  backs  or 
breasts. '  Season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  bit  of 
butter,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  water,  and  tie  them  close  at 
both  ends ;  so  that  when  they  are  brought  to  table,  they  bring 
their  sauce  with  them.  Egg  and  dredge  them  well  with 
grated  bread  f  mixed  with  spice  and  sweet  heibs,  if  you 
please) ;  then  lay  them  on  the  gridiron,  and  turn  them  fre- 
quently:  if  your  fire  is  not  very  clear,  lay  them  on  a  Aeet* 
of  paper  well  buttered,  to  keep  them  firom  getting  smoked. 
They  are  much  better  broiled  whole* 

Tne  same  sauce  as  in  die  preceding  receipt,  or  No.  343 
or  348. 

YcAL  CUTLETS  (No.  521  and  No.  91).    Pork  chops  (No.  03), 


] 


f 


I 


YSOSTABIES.  155 


▼B0ETABLE8. 

Sixtem  Ways  o/dttsnng  Polofoe^.*— (No.  102.) 

» 

The  yesetable  kingdom  affords  no  food  more  wholesome,  * 
more  easity  procured,  ea^y  prepared,  or  less  expensive,  than 
the  potato :  yet,  although  tnis  most  useful  vegetable  is  dressed 
almost  every  day,  in  almost  every  family,  for  one  plate  of 
potatoes  that  comes  to  table  as  it  should,  ten  are  spoiled. 

Bie  careful  in  your  choice  of  potatoes :  no  vefi^etable  varjes 
so  much  in, colour,  size,  shape,  consistence,  aad  flavour. 

The  reddish-coloured  are  better  than  the  white,  but  the 
yellowish-looking  ones  are  tiie  best.  Choose  those  of  a 
moderate  size,  free  from  blemic^es,  and  fresh,  and  buy  them 
in  the  mould.  They  must  not  be  wetted  tiU  they  are  cleaned 
to  be  cooked.  Protect  them  from  the  air  and  frost,  by  lay- 
ing them  in  heaps  in  a  cellar,  covering  them  with  mats,  or 
bur3ring  them  in  sand  or  in  earth.  The  action  of  frost  is 
most  destructive :  if  it  be  considerable,  the  life  of  the  vege- 
table is  destroyed,  and  the  potato  speedily  rots. 

Wash  them,  but' do  not  pare  or  cut  them,  unless  they  are 
very  large*  Fill  a  sauce-pan  half  full  of  potatoes  of  equal 
sizef  (or  make  them  so  by  dividing  the  larger  ones),  put  to 
them  as  much  cold  water  as  will  cover  them  about  an  inch : 
Ihey  are  sooner  boiled,  and  more  savoury,  than  when  drowned 
in  water.  Most  boiled  things  are  spoiled,  by  having  too 
little  water,  biit  potatoes  are  often  spoiled  by  too  much :  they 
must  merely  be  covered,  and  a  little  allowed  for  waste  in 
boiling,  so  that  they  may  be  just  covered  at  the  flnish.     ^ 

Set  them  on  a  moderate  fire  till  they  boil ;  then  take  them 
off,  and  put  them  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  slowly  till 
they  are  soft  enough  to  admit  a  fork  (place  no  dependence 
on  the  usual  test  of  their  skins*  cracking,  which,  if  they  are 
boiled  fast,  will  happen  to  some  potatoes  when  they  are  not 
half  done,  and  the  insides  quite  hard).    Then  pour  the  water 

*  "  Next  to  bread,  tbere  ii  no  vegetable  article^  the  preparatioD  of  wbieb,  as  food, 
d^RCnren  to  be  more  attended  to,  than  the  potato."— Sii  Sown  8tHGLAia*«  CMe  of 
Meattkj  vol.  i.  p.  354. 

M  By  the  aiiaiynt  ef  pv^^Uy  H  appean  that  16  ouncei  contained  lli  oimces  of 
water,  and  the  4^  ouncea  of  80li4  parte  remaining,  ailbrded  acarpe  a  drachm  of 
eartb.^*-ePAR]niiTiBa*s  Qh§.  4%  Jifktriln^  VegtUbUty  8vo.  1783,  p.  113. 

t  Or  the  mall  ones  will  be  done  to  ptoeia  before  tha  large  onea  an  botted 
enongli. 


166  VEGETABLES. 

off  (if  yoy  let  the  potatoes  remain  in  the  water  a  moment 
alter  they  are  done  enough,  they  will  become  waxy  and  wa- 
tery), uncover  the  sauce-pan,  and  set  it  at  such  a  distance 
from  the  fire  as  will  secure  it  from  bumhig;  their  super- 
fluous moisture  will  evaporate,  and  the  potatoes  will  be  per^* 
fectly  dry  and  mealy. 

You  may  afterward  [dace  a  napkin,  folded  up  to  the  size 
of  the  sauce-pan's  diameter,  over  tne  potatoes,  to  keep  them 
hot  and  mealy  till  wanted. 

Obi, — ^TMs  method  of  manag^inff  potatoes  is  in  every  re- 

r3t  e<)ual  to  steaming  them';  and  tney  are  dressed  in  half 
time. 
There  is  such  an  infinite  variety  of  sorts  and  Mzes  of  pota- 
toes, that  it  is  impossible  to  say  how  Irnig  ttoey  will  take 
doing:  the  best  way  is  to  try  them  with  a  fork.  Moderate- 
sizea  potatoes  will  generally  be  done  enough  in  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.    See  06«.  to  No.  106. 

Cold  Potatoes  ynerf.— (No.  lOS*.) 

Put  a  bit  of  clean  dripping  into  a  frying-pan :  when  it  is 
melted,  slice  in  -your  potatoes  with  a  little  pepper  «ad  salt ; 

Eut  them  on  the  fire ;  keep  stirring  them :  when  they  are  quite 
ot,  they  are  ready. 

Obs. — This  is  a  very  good  way  of  re-dressing  potatoes,  or 
see  No.  106. 

Potatoes  hoiUd  and  W/ec^.— (No.  103.) 

Dress  your  potatoes  as  before  directed,  and  put  them  on 
a  gridiron  over  a  very  clear  and  hrisk  fire :  turn  them  till  they 
are  brown  all  over,  and  send  them  up  dry,  with  melted  butter 
in  a  cup. 

Potatoes  fried  in  ISices  or  &uwings. — (No.  104.) 

Peel  large  potatoes ;  slice  them  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  or  cut  tnem  in  shavings  round  and  round,  as  you  wotdd 
peel  a  lemon ;  dry  them  well  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  fry  them 
in  lafd  or  dripping.  Take  care  that  your  fat  and  frying-pan 
are  quite  clean ;  put  it  on  a  quick  fire,  watch  it,  and  as  soon 
as  the  lard  boils,  and  is  still,  put  in  the  slices  of  potato,  and 
keep  moving  them  till  they  are  crisp.  Take  them  up,  and 
lay  them  to  drain  on  a  sieve :  send  them  up  with  a  very  little 
salt-sprinkled  over  them. 


▼E6STABLS8.  15*7 

PoUUoes  fried  whoU.'^No.  105.) 

When  neariy  boiled  enough,  as  directed  in  No.  100,  put 
ibem  into  a  8tew<^>an  with  a  bit  of  butter,  or  some  nice  clean 
beef-dri{ming8 ;  shake  them  about  often  (for  fear  of  burning 
them),  tm  tli^y  are  brown  and  crisp ;  drain  them  from  the  fat. 

06».— It  will  be  an  elegant  imj^vement  to  the  last  tlunee 
receipts,  previous  to  frying  or  broiling  the  potatoes,  to  flour 
them.and  dip  them  in  the  yelk  of  an  esff,  and  then  roll  them 
in  fine-sifted  brea4-crumbs ;  they  wuithen  deserve  to  be 
called  POTAToas  ruu.  dbsssed. 

Potatoes  ma$kedi — (No.  106.    See  also  No.  112.) 

When  your  potatoes  are  thoroughly  boiled,  drain  them 
quite  dry,  pick  out  every  speck,  l^c,  and  while  hot,  mb  them 
through  a  colander  into  a  clean  stew-pan.  To  a  pound  of 
potatoes  jmt  about  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  milk :  do  not  make  them  too  moist ;  mix  them  well 
together. 

O&f . — ^After  Lady-day,  when  the  potatoes  are  getting  old 
and  specky,  and  in  frosty  weather,  this  is  the  Mst  way  of 
dressing  them.  You  piay  put  them  into  shapes  or  small 
tea-cups ;  egg  them  with  yelk  of  egg,  and  brown  them  very 
slightly  before  a  slow  fire.    See  No.  106. 

Potatoes  maahed  7»ith  Qniofu.^No.  107.) 

Prepare  some  boiled  onions  by  puttiog  them  through  a 
sieve,  and  mix  them  with  potatoes.  In  proportioning  the 
onions  to  the  potatoes,  you  will  be  guided  by  your  wish  to 
have  more  or  less  of  theu*  flavour. 

06j.— See  note  under  No.  555. 

Potatoes  eseakped.'^^o.  106.) 

Mash  potatoes  as  directed  in  No.  106 ;  then  butter  some 
nice  clean  scollop-shells,  pattv-pans,  or  tea-cups  or  saucers ; 
put  in  your  potatoes ;  ma&e  tnem  smooth  at  the  top ;  cross 
a  knife  over  them ;  strew  a  few  fine  bread-crumbs  on  them ; 
sprinkle  them  with  a  paste-brush  with  a  few  drops  of  melted 
butter,  and  then  set  them  in  a  Dutch  oven ;  when  they  .are 
browned  on  the  top,  take  them  carefully  out  of  the  shells 
and  brown*the  other  side. 

GE>/caniiOfi.— (No.  108*.) 

Boil  potatoes  and  greens,  or  spinage,  separately ;  mash  th« 

O 


168  VSOETABX.E8. 

potatoes;  squeeze  the  greens  dry;  cl^op  them  quite  fine, 
and  itiix  them  with  the  potatoes,  with  a  Utile  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt ;  put  it  into  a  mould,  buttering  it  well  first ;  let  it 
stand  in  a  not  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

Potatoes  roasted. — (No.  109.) 

Wash  and  dry  your  potatoes  (all  of  a  size),  and  put  them 
in  a  tin  Dutch  OTen«  or  cheese-toaster :  take  care  not  to  put 
them  too  near  the  &re,  or  they  will  get  burned  on  the  outside 
before  they  are  warmed  through. 

Large  potatoes  will  require  two  hours  to  roast  them. 

N.B.  To  save  time  and  trouble,  some  cooks  half  boil 
them  first. 

This  is  one  of  the  best  opportunities  the  baker  has  to 
rival  the  cook. 

Potatoes  roasted  under  Mtat. — (No.  110.)    ^ 

Half  boil  large  potatoes,  drain  the  water  from  them, 
and  put  them  into  an  earthen  dish,  or  small  tin  pan,  under 
meat  that  is  roasting,  and  baste  them  with  some  of  the 
dripping :  when  they  are  browned  on  one  side,  turn  them 
ana  brown  the  other;  send  them  up  ^und  the  meat,  or  * 
in  a  small  dish. 

PoUsio  EdlU,'-^^.  in.) 

Mix  mashed  potatoes  with  the  yelk  of  an  egg;  roll 
them  into  balls ;  flour  them,  or  ^%%  and  bread-crumb  them ; 
and  fry  them  in  clean  drippings,  or  brown  them  in  a 
Dutch  oven. 

PoUUo  Balls  iZa^^,— (No.  112.) 

Are  made  by  adding  to  a  pound  of  potatoes  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  ^grated  ham,  or  some  sweet  herbs,  or  chopped 
parsley,  an  onion  or  eschalot,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  or  other  spice,  with  the  yelk  of  a  couple  of  eggs : 
they  are  then  to  be  dressed  as  No.  111. 

Obs. — An  agreeable  vegetable  relish,  and  a  good  sup- 
per-dish. 

Potato  S^ww.— (No.  114.) 

The  potatoes  must  be  free  from  spots,  and  the  whitest 
you  can  pick  out ;  put  them  on  in  cold  water;  when  they 
begin  to  crack  strain  the  water  from  them,  and  put  them 


-JIT 


V£O^TABXJS8.  169 

*  * 

into  a  clean  stew-pan  by  the  side  of  the  fire  till  they  are 
quite  dry,  and  fall  to  pieces ;  mb  them  throns^  a  wire  sieve 
on  the  dish  they  are  t6  be  s^it  up  is,  and.  do  not  disturb 
them  afterward. 

PotcUo  Pi«.— (No.  116.) 

Peel  and  slice  your  potatoes  very  thin  into  a  pie-dish; 
between  each  layer  of  potatoes  put  a  little  chopped  onion 
(three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  onion  is  sufficient  for  a  pound 
of  potatoes) ;  between  each  layer  sprinkle,  a  little  pepper 
and  sadt ;  put  in  a  little  water,  and  cut  about  two  ounces  of 
fresh  butter  into  little  bits,  and  lay  them  on  the  top :  cover 
it  close  with  puff  paste.  It  wiU  take  about  an  hour  and  a 
half.tobake  it 

N.B.  The  yelks  of  four  eg^grs  (boiled  hard)  may  be  added  f 
and  when  baked,  a  table-spoonful.of  g;ood  mushroom  catchup 
poured  in  through  a  funnel.  • 

06«.-^.Cauliflowers  divided  into  mouthfuls,  and  button 
onions,  seasoned  with  curry  powder,  &c.  make  a  favourite 
vegetable  pie. 

JVew  Po<(rfoe».— (No.  116.) 

The  best  way  to  clean  new  potatoes  is  to  rub  them  with  a 
coarse  cloth  or  Jlannel,  a  or  scrubbing-brush,  and  proceed  ^ 
in  No.  102. 

N.B.  New  potatoes  are  poor,  watery,  and  insipid,  till  they 
are  fuU  two  inches  in  diameter :  they  are  not  worth  the 
trouble  of  boiling  before  midsummer  day. 

Obs. — Some  cooks  prepare  sauces  to  pour  over  potatoecu 
made  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  or  gravy,  or  melted  butter 
and  catchup ;  or  stew  the  potatoes  in  ale,  or  .water  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt ;  or  bake  them  with  herrings  or  sprats, 
mixed  with  layers  of  potatoes,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt, 
sweet  herbs,  vinegar,  and  water;  or  cut  mutton  or  bieef 
into  slices,  and  lay  them  in  a  stew-pan,  and  on  them  pota- 
toes and  spices,  then  another  layer  of  the  meat  alternately, 
poiiring  in  a  little  water,  covering  it  up  very  close,  and 
stewing  slowly. 

Potato  mucilage  (a  good  substitute  for  arrow-root)^ 
No.  448.* 

*  Sweet  potatoes,  otherwiie  ealled  Carolina  potatoea,  are  the  roote  of  tbe  CokmI- 
viUut  lataiatf  a  plant  peculiar  to  and  prineipally  cultivated  In  Ameriea.  It  delialita 
in  a  warm  climate,  but  is  raised  in  Connectlcuti  New- York,  and  all  the  states  of  the 
Union  south  of  New- York.  It  is  an  excellent  vegetable  for  the  dinnei^table,  and  ii 
brouiht  on  boiled.   It  has  an  advantage  over  eommon  potatoes,  as  It  may  be  eaten 


160  TxaxTAiiUfl. 

/eruiAtoiiJlf^cftoJbef,— <l4b«  117.) 

Are  boiled  and  dressed  in  ihe  various  wa}rs  we  have  just* 
before  directed  for  potatoes. 

N.B.  They  should  be  covered  with  thick  melted  butter,  or 
a  nice  white  or  brown  saiice. 

Cabbagc-^No.  118.) 

Pick  cabbages  very  clean^  and  wash  them  thoroughly; 
then  look  them  over  carefuUy  ag^in ;  quarter  them  if  they 
are  Tery  large.  Put  them  into  a  sauce-'pan  with  plenty  of 
boiling  water;  if  any  scihn  rises,  take  it  off;  put  a  large 
spoonful  of  salt  into  the  sajice-pan,  and  boil  them  till  the 
stalks  feel  tender.  A  young  cabbage  will  take  about  4Wenty 
minutes  or  half  an  hour;  when  fidl  grown,  near  an  hour: 
see  that  thev  are  well  covered  with  water  all  the  time,  and 
that  no  smoke  or^  dirt  arises  from  stirring  the  fire.  With 
careful  management,  they  will  look  as  beautiful  when  dressed 
as  they  did  when  growing. 

Obi. — Some  cooks  say,  that  it  wiU  much  ameliorate  the 
iHavour  of  strong  old  cabbages  to  boil  them  in  two  waters ; 
i.  e.  when  they  are  half  done,  to  take  them  out,  and 
put  them  directly  into  another  sauce-pan  of  b6ilin|r  water, 
instead  of  continuing  them  in  the  water  into  virhich  they 
were  firilt  put. 

BaUed  Cabbage  fried. — (No.  119.) 
See  receipt  for  Bubble  and  Squeak* 

Savoj/s, — (No.  ISO.) 

Are  boiled  in  the  same  manner ;  quarter  them  when  yon 
send  them  to  table.  - 

Sprouts  and  young  Greens. — (No.  131.) 

The  receipt  we  have  written  for  cabbies  will  answer 
as  well  for  sprouts,  only  they  will  be  boiled  enough  in  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes. 

Sp%nage.'-{^o.  122.) 

Spinage  should  be  picked  a  leaf  at  a  time,  and  washed  in 
three  or  four  waters ;  when  perfectly  clean,  lay  it  on  a  sieve 
or  colandpr,  to  dram  the  water  from  it. 

cold ;  and  it  is  sometimes  cut  into  thin  slices  and  brostght  to  tlie  tea-table,  as  a  ddi' 
cafe  relish,  owing  to  its  agreeable  oatritioiis  sweetneflv.    A. 


T 


VEBKlAMtS».  161 

Put  a:  sauce-pan  «i  theftre  Huee  parta  filled  with  water, 
and  laige  enouoli  for  the  spinage  to  float  in  it ;  put  a  flmaU 
lutndibl  of  salt  in  it ;  let  it  boil;  skim  it,  and  then  put  in  the 
spinage ;  make  it  boil  as  quick  as  possible  till  quite  tender, 
pressing  the  spinas^  down  frequently  that  it  may  be  done 
equally ;  it  will  be€one  enough  in  about  ten  minutes,  if  beUed 
in  plenty  of  water :  if  the  spinage  is  a  little  old,  give  it  a  few 
minutes  longer.  When  done,  strain  it  eli  the  badt  of  a  sieve ; 
squeease  it  d^  with  a  plate,  or  between  two  trenchers  \  chop 
it  fine,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a 
little  salt:  a  little  cream  is  a  great  improvement,  or  instead 
of  either  some  rich  gravy.  S&read  it  m  a  dish,  and  score  it 
into  squares  of  proper  size  to  help  at  table. 

Oftt.— 4j>rated  nutmeg,  or  mace,  and  a  little  lemon*juiee, 
is  a  favourite  addition  with  some  cooks,  and  is  added 
when  yon  stir  it  up  in  the  stew«pan  with  the  butter  gar- 
nished. Spinage  is  frequently  served  with  poached  eggs 
9nd  fried  bread. 

jfjparogntt.— (No.  IHH.) 

Set  a  stew-nan  with  plenty  of  water  in  it  on  the  fire; 
sprinkle  a  hanafal  of  salt  in  it ;  let  it  boil,  and  skim  it ;  then 
put  in  your  asparagus,  prepared  thus :  scrape  all  the  stidks 
tiU  they  are  perfectly  clean;  throw  them  into  a  pan  of  cold 
water  as  you  scrape  them;  when  they  are  aU  done,  tie  them 
\xp  in  little  bundles,  of  about  a  quarter  of  a  hmuhed  each, 
with  bassy  if  you  can  get  it,  or  tape  (string  cuts  them  to 
pieces) ;  cut  off  the  stalks  at  the  bottom  thatuiey  may  be  aU 
of  a  lengthy  leaving  oidy  just  enough  to  s^rve  as  a  handle 
for  'the  green  part ;  when  they  are  tender  at  the  stalk,  which 
will  be  in  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  they  are  done 
enough.  Great  care  must  be  taken  to.  Watch  the  exact  time 
of  their  becoming  tender ;  take  them  up  just  at  that  instant, 
and  they  will  have  their  true  flavour  and  colour :  a  minute 
Dr  two  more  boiling  destroys  both. 

TTVhile  the  aisp^bragus  is  boiling,  toast  a  round  of  a  quartern 
loaf,  about  half  an  inc^  thick ;  brown  it  delicately  on  hoik 
sides ;  dip  it  lightly  in  the  liquor  the  asparagus  was  boiled 
in,  and  lay  it  in  the  middle  of  a  dish :  melt  some  butter  (No. 
956) ;  then  lay  in  the  asparagus  upon  the  toast,  which  must 
project  beyond  the  asparagus,  that  the  c<nnpany  may  see 
there  is  a  toast. 

Pour  no  butter  over  them,  but  send  some  up  In  a  boat«  ot 
white  sauce  (No.  2  of  No.  364), 

08 


169  VEeXTABIiXS. 

iSsa  JTole,— (No.  124.) 

Is  tied  up  in  bundles,  and  dressed  in  the  sameT  way  as 
asparagus. 

Oa«/t^2<n»er.— (No.  125  J 

Choose  those  that  are  close  and  white,  and  of  the  middle 
size ;  trikn  off  the  obtside  leaves ;  cut  the  stalk  off  flat  at 
the  bbttom;  let  them  lie  in-  salt  and  water  an  hour  before 
you  boil  them. 

Put  them  into  boiling  water  with  a  handful  of  salt  in  it ; 
skim  it  well,  and  let  it  boil  slowly  till  done,  which'  a  small 
one  will  he  in  fifteen,  a  large  one  in  about  twenty  minutes ; 
take  it  up  the  moment  it  is  enough,  a  minute  or  two  longer 
boiling  will  spoil  it. 

N.B.  Cold  caulifipwers  and  French  beans,  carrots  and 
turnips,  boiled  so  as  to  eat « rather  crisp,  are  sottietimes 
dressed  as  a  salad  (No.  372  or  453). 

Broccoli* — (No.  126.) 

Set  a  pan  *of  clean  cold  water  on  the  table,  and  a  sauce* 
paii  on  the  fire  with  plenty  of  water,  and  a  handful  of  salt 
in  it. 

Broccoli  is  prepared  by  stripping  off  all  the  side  shoots, 
leaving  the  top ;  peel  off  the  skm  of  the  stalk  with  a  knife : 
cut  it  close  off  at  the  bottom,  and  put  it  into  the  pan  of 
cold  water. 

When  the  water  in  the  stew-pan  boils,  and  the  broccoli  is 
ready,  put  it  in ;  let  it  boil  briskly  till  the  stalks  feel  tender, 
fro^n  ten  to  twenty  hiinutes ;  take  it  up  with  a  slice,  that 
you  may  not  break  it ;  let  it  drain,  and  serve  Up. 

If  some  of  the  heads  of  broccoli  are  much  bigger  than 
the  others,  put  them  on  to  boil  first,  so  that  they  may  get  all 
done  together. 

06s. — It  makes  a  nice-  supper-dish  served  upon  a  toast,, 
like  aspara|:us.  It  is  a  very  delicate  vegetable,  and  you 
must  take  it  up  the  moment  it  is  .done,  and  send  it  to 
table  hot. 

Red  B^-roote,— (No.  127.) 

Are  not  so  much  used  as  they  deserve ;  they  are  dressed  in 
the  same  way  as  parsnips,  only  neither  scraped  ncwr  cut  till 
after  they  are  boiled ;  they  will  take  from  an  nour  and  a  half 
to  three  hours  in  boiling,  according  to  their  size :  to  be  sent 
to  table  -with  salt  fish,  boiled  beef,  &c.    When  yourfg,  large; 


VSGBTABLES.  165 

and  juicy,  it  is  a  very  good  variety,  an  exeelle^t  gamish,  and 
easily  converted  into  a  very  cheap  and  pleasant  pickle. 

Pawfiy*,— (No.  198.) 

Are  to  be  cooked  just  in  the  same  manne'r  as  carrots.  They 
require  more  or  less  time  acoording  to  their  size ;  therefore 
match  them  in  size :  and  you  must  try  them  by  thrusting  a 
fork  into  them  as  thejr  are  in  the  water;  when  that  goes 
easily  through,  ^y  aje  done  enough*  Boil  them  from  an 
hour  to  twohours,  according  to  their  size  and  freshness. 
.  O&s.  Parsnips  are  sometimes  sent  up  mashed  in  the  same 
wsn^  as  turnips,  and  some  cooks  quarter  them  before  they 
bouthem.*  > 

Ofrrotv.— (No.  129.) 

Let  them  be  well  washed' and  brushed,  not  scraped.  An 
hour  is  enough  for  young  spring  carrots ;  grown  carrots  must 
be  cut  in  hau,  and  will  take  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two 
hours  and  a  half.  When  done,  rub  off  the  peels  with  a  clean 
coarse  cloth,  and  slice  them  in  two  or  four,  according  to  their 
size.  The  best  way  to  try  if  they  are  done  enough,  is  to 
pierce  diem  with  a  fork. 

Obs.  Many  people  are  fond  of  cold  carrot  with  cold  beef  | 
ask  if  you  Bhsul  cook  enough  for  some  to  be  left  to  send  up 
with  the  cold  meat. 

7\imtjp».— (No.  130^v 

Peel  off  half  an  inch  of  the  stringy  outside.  Full-grown 
turnips  will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  half  gentle  boiling;  if 
you  slice  them,  which  most  people  dd,  they  will  be  done 
sooner ;  try  them  witl^a  fork ;  •  when  tender,  iske  them  up,  and 
lay  them  on  a  sieve  tiU  the  water  is  thoroughly  drained  from 
them.    Send  them  up  whole ;  do  not  slice  mem; 

N.B.  To  very  young  turnips  leave  about  two  inches  of  the 
green  top.    See  No.  139'.- 

To  maah  7V»m^5.— (No.  131.) 

When  they  are  boiled  quite  tender,  squeeze  them  as  dry 
as  possible  between  two  trenchers ;  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan ;  mash  them  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  rub  them  through 

*  After  psimipB  are  6olled,  tbey  elioaid  be  pat  Into  the  fkying-mii  aod  browned 
%  little.  Some  people  do  not  admire  tUe  vegetable,  on  account  bf  its  liclcldi  aweet^ 
neas.  It  la,  lioweyer,  a  wboleeome,  drtap^  aod  nonriiliing  v^etaUe,  beat  calculated 
for  the  table  in  winter  and  spring*  Its  jweetneas  may  be  ptoaified  by  maahing  with 
a  Ibw  potatoes.   A. 


16t  VttXTABLXi. 

acolaiider ;  add  a  little  Mt  of  butter;  keen  stirriaff  tibem  tlH 
the  butter  is  melted  and  well  mixed  with  tnemi  and  they  aie 
ready  for  table. 

•  Tum^[h4opt, — (No,  139.) 

Are  the  shoots  which  ^w  ont  (in  the  spring)  of  the  old 
tumip-roots.  Put  them  mto  cold  water  an  nour  before  they 
are  to  be  dressed ;  th^  more  water  they  are  boiled  in>  the 
better  they  will  look;  if  boiled  in  a  sqiail  quantity  of  water 
they  will  taste  bitter :  when  the  water  boils,  put  in  a.  small 
huidful  of  salt,  and  then  3rour  vegetables ;  if  fresh  and  young, 
they  will  be  done  in  about  twenty  minutes ;  drain  theni  on 
the  back  of  a  sieve. 

French  Beans.^iio.  }33.) 

'Cut  off  the  stalk  end  first,  and  then  turn  to  the  point  and 
strip  off  the  stiinffs.  If  not  quite  fresh,  have  a  bowl  of  springs- 
water,  with  a  litttie  salt  dissolved  in  it,  standing  before  you^ 
and  as  the  beans  are  cleaned  and  stringed,  tfirow  them  in. 
Whea  all  are  done,  put  them  on  the  fire  in  boiling  water,  with 
some  salt  in  it;  alter  they  have  boiled  fifteen  or  twenQr 
minutes,  take  one  out  and  taste  it ;  as  soon  as  they  are  ten- 
fter  take  ifiiem  up;  throw tiiem  mto  a  colander  or  sieve  tcr. 
drain.  *  ' 

To  send  up  the  beans  whole  is  much  the  best  method  when 
they  are  thus  young,  and  their  delicate  flavour  and  colour  are 
much  better  preserved.  When  a  little  more  growh,  they 
must  be  cut  across  in  two  alter  stringing ;  and  for  common 
tables  they  are  split,  and  divided  across;  cut  them  aU  the 
same  lengm ;  but  those  who  are  nice  never  have  them  at  such 
a  growth  as  to  require  ^splitting. 

When  ^ttey  are  very  large  they  look  pretty  cut  into  lo2?aiges. 

Obs.  See  N.B.  to  No.  125. 

Grem  P«mc.*— (No.  134.) 

Voimg  green  pease,  weU  dressed,  are  jimoi^g  the  most  deli- 
cious delicacies  of  the  vegetable  kingdom.  They  must*  be 
young ;  it  is  equally  indispensable  that  mey  be  fresh  gathered, 
and  cooked  as  soon  as  they  are  shelled  for  they  soon  lose 
both  their  colour  and  sweetness. 

•  TheM,  Slid  all  oUier  fhUta  and  vtegeteblea,^^,  IfWi.  AnrntLfM  filaii,  it  toaaid, 
Bay  be  nireiervMl  for  twelve  moaths.  Bee  AmKT*s  ««•*,  ISmo.  ISIS.  Welmve 
ealen  of  aeverel  apedmenB  of  picnrved  peaaa,  whtoh  iooked  pieity  enoagb.-rbttt 
^our  tbey  bad  none  at  all. 


#^ 


VBOKTABLS8.  I6& 

If  you  wish  to  fe^Bi  upon  pease  in  peiUBdaon,  TOa  mint 
have  &em  gathered  the  same  day  they  are  dnsaeo,  imd  put 
on  to  boil  within  half  an  hour  after  they  are  shdled. 

Pass  them  through  a  riddle,  t .  e,  a  coarse  sieve,  whicl)  is 
made  for  the  purpose  of  separating  them.  This  precaution 
is  necessary,  for  large  and  small  pease  canndt  be  billed 
together,  as  the  former  will  take  more  time  than  the  latter. 

For  a  peck  of  pease,  set  on  a  sauce-pan  with  a  gallon  of 
water  in  it ;  when  it  boils,  put  in  your  pease,  with  a  taUe- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  skim  it  well,  keep  them  boiling  quick  from 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  according  to  their  age  and  size. 
The  best  way  to  judge  of  their  being  done  enough  and  indeed 
the  only  way  to  make  sure  of  cooking  them  to,  and  not 
beyond,  the  point  of  perfection,  or,  as  pea-eaters  say,  of 
«<  boiling  them  to  a  bubble,"  is  to  take  them  out  with  a  spoon 
and  taste  them. 

When  they  are  done  enough,  drain  them  on  a  ^r-sievet 
If  you  like  them  butte/^d,  put  them  into  a  pie-dish,  divide 
some  butter  into  small  ^its^  and  lay  them  on  the  pease ;  put 
another  dish  over  them,  and  turn  them  over  and  over;  this 
will  melt  the  butter  through  them ;  but  as  all  people  do  not 
like  buttered  pease,  you  had  better  send  them  to  table  plain, 
as  they  come.oiit  of  the  -sauce-pan,,  with  melted  butter  (No* 
256)  in  a  sauce-tureen.  It  is  usual  to  boil  some  mint  with 
the  pease ;  but  if  you  wish  to  garnish  the  pease  with  mint* 
boil  a  few  sprigs  in  a  S9.uce-paa  by  themselves.  See  Sage 
and  Onion  Sauce  (No.  300),  and  Pea  Powder  (No.  458) ;  to 
boil  Bacon  XNo.  1^),  Slices  of  Ham  and  Bacon  (No.  .506),  and 
Relishing  Rashers  of  Bacon  (No.  527). 

'  N.B.  A  peck  of  young  pease  will  not  3ri^d  more  than 
enough  for  a.couple  of  hearty  pea^eaters ;  when  the  pods  are 
full,  it  may  serve  for  three. 

Mm.  Never  think  of  purchasing  pease  ready-shelled,  for 
the  cogent  reasons  assigned  in  the  fhst  part  of  this  receipt. 

Cucumbers  jterred.— (No.  135.) 

Peel  and  cut  cucumbers  in  quarters,  take  out  the  seeds, 
and  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain  off  the  water :  when  they 
are  dry,  flour  and  fry  them  in  fresh  butter ;  let  the  butter  be 
quite  hot  before  you  put  in  the  cucumbers ;  fry  them  tyi  ^eyk 
are  brown,  then  take  them  out  with  an  egg-slice,  and  lay 
them  on  a  sieve  to  drain  the  fat  from  them  (some  cooks  fry 
sliced  onions,  or  some .  small  button  onions,  with  them,  tiU 
they  are  a  delicate  light-brown  colour,  drain  them  from  the 
fat,  and  then  put  thein  into  a  stew-pan  with  as  much  gravy 


166     ^  VBaBTABUBS. 

as  will  cover  them) :  stew  slowly  till,  tliey  a3<e  tender ;  take 
out  the  cuciimbens  with  a  slice,  micken  the  gravy  with  ^ur. 
and  batter,  give  it  a  boil  up,  season  it  with  pepper  aiid  salt, 
an^put'in  the  cucumbers ;  as  soon  as  they  are  warm,  they 
are  ready. 

•  Tile  above,  rubbed  through  a  tamis,  or  fine  sieve,  will  he 
entitled  to  be  called  ^  cucumber  sauce.^'  See  No.  399,  Ou-* 
^  cumber  Vinegar.  This  is  a  very  favourite  sauce  Mrith  lamb 
or  mutton-cutlets,  stewed  rump-steaks,  &c.  &c. :  when  made 
for  the  latter,  a  third  part  Of  suced  onion  is  sometimes  fried 
with  the  cucumber.* 

Artichokes.— {So.  136.) 

Soak  them  in  cold  water,  wash  them  well,  then  put  them 
into  plenty  of  boUinff  water,  with  a  handful  of  salt,  and  let 
them  boil,  gently  till  they  are  tender,  which  will  take  an  hour 
and  a  half,  or  two  hours :  the  surest  way  to  know  when  they 
are  done  enough,  is  to  draw  out  a  leaf;  trim  them  and  drain 
them'  on  a  sieve ;  and  send  up  melted  butter  with  them,  which 
some  put  into  small  cups,  so, that  each  guest  may  have  one. 

Stewed  Ontans.— (So.  IZ7.) 

The  large  Portugal  onions  are  the  best :  take  off  the  top- 
coats of  half  a  dozen  of  these  (taking  care  not  to  cut  off  the 
^ops  or  tails  too  near,  or  the  onions  will  go  to  pieces),  and 
put  them  into  a  stew-pah  broad  enough  to  hold  them  without 
laying  th^m  atc^  of  one  anothery  and  just  cover  them  with 
good  broth.  *  '^ 

Put  them  over  a  slow  fire,  and  let  them  simmer  about  two 
hours ;  when  you  dish  them,  turn  them  upside  down,  and 
pour  the  sauce  over« 

Young  onions  stewed,  see  No.  S96. 

Salad9.-HSo.  138*,  also  No.  37S). 

Those  who  desire  to  See  this  subject  elaborately  illustrated, 
we  refer  to  ''  Evelyn's  Ac^arioj^  a  discourse  of.  Sallets,  a 
ISmo.  of  240  pages.    London,  1699. 

*  Cocomben  may  be  cut  into  qoailera  and  boiled  like  asparagus,  and  served  up 
^ith  toasted  bread  and  melted  butter.    This  ia  a  roost  delicate  way  of  preparing 
^udflnbAv  fbr  the  dinner-table,  and  they  are  a  most  luscious  article,  and  so  rich  and 
savoury  that  a  small  quantity  will  t uAce.    ■ 

The  ordinary  method  of  cutting  cucumbers  into  slides  with  raw  onions,  served  up 
in  viBegar,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  is  most  vulgar  and  most  unwhole- 
some. In  thefar  season  they  are  cheap  and  plenty ;  and  as  they  are  crude  and  unripe 
tliey  i«qub«  the  stomach  of  an  ostrich  to  digest  them.  They  cause  much  siclcness 
in  their  season,  creating  choleras,  cramps,  and  dysenteries.  If  stewed  or  boiled  as 
abovedirectod,  they  would  be  more  nutritious  and  wholesome.  A. 


I 


161 

Mr.  E.  gjlves  us  '^an  account  of  seventy-two heriis  proper 
and  lit  to  make  sallet  with ;"  and  a  taUe  of  thiiiy-five,  teU* 
ing  their  Iseasons  and  proportions. .  ^  In  the  composure  of  a 
sa&ei,  every  plant  should  come  in  to  bear  its  part,  1^  the 
notes  in  music :  thus  the  comical  Master  Cook  introduced  l^ 
Damoxenus,  when  asked,  *what  harmony  there  Wf0  in 
meats?'  Uhe  very  same,'  says  he,  *as  the  3d,  5th,  and  8th 
have  to  one  another  in  music:  the  main  skill  lies  in  this,  not 
to  mingle'  ('  tapores  miniiM  cofwentien^').  *  Tastes>not  well 
joined,  inelegant,'  as  our  Paradisian  bard  directs  Eve,  when 
dressing  a  s^et  for  her  angelical  guest,  in  MiLTON'a  Paroi 
UseLoHJ" 

He  gives  the  following  receipt  for  the  oxoleon: — 

**  Take  of  clear  and  perfectly  gpod  oyl-olive  three  parts ; 
of  sharpest  vinegar  (sweetest  of  all  con^mients,  for  it  incites 
appetite,' and  causes. hunger,  which  is  the  best  sauce), limon, 
or  Juice  of  orange,  one-  part ;  and  therein  let  steep  some 
slices  of  horseradish,  with  a  little  salt.  Some,  in  a  separate 
vinegar,  gently  bruise  a  pod  6f  Ginny  pepper,  and  strain  it 
to  the  other;  then,  add  as  much  nnistard  as  will  lie  upon  a 
half-erown  piece.  Beat  and  mingle  these  well  together  with 
the  yeUc  of  two  new-laid  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  pour  it  over' 
your  sajlet,  stirring  it  weU  together.  The  super-curious 
msist  that  the  knife  with  which  sallet  herb  is  cut  must  be 
of  silver.  Some  who  are  husbands  of  their  oyl,  pour  at  first 
the  oyl  alone,  as  more  apt  to  communicate  and  diffuse  its 
dlipperiness,  than  when  it  is  Qiingled  and  beaten  with  the 
acids,  which  they  pour  on  last  of  all ;  and  it  is  incredible  how 
smaU  a  quantity  of  oyl  thus  applied  is  sufficient  to  imbue  a 
Tery  plentiful  assembly  of  sallet  herbs."  . 

Ubs.  Our  own  directioins  to  prepare  and  dress  salads  will 
he  found  uAder  No.  372. 


FESH. 

See  Obi.  on  Codfish  after  No.  149. 

Turbot  to  6oi7.— (No.  140). 

Tms  excellent  fish  is  in  season'  the  greatest  part  of  th^ 
summer;  when  good,  it  is  at  once  firm  and  tender,  and  abouncfas 
wkh  rich  gelatinous  nutriment. 


168 

'  Mug  dnmUf  and  washed  cletiu  if  it  be  quitt  fic0sl^  by 
robbuig  it  lightly  with  Bah,  and  keepinfi^  it  in  a  ooH  plaise, 
yon  may  in  moderate  weather  preserve  it  for  a  coi^de  of 
days-* 

An  hour  or  two  before  you  dress  it,  soak  it  in  8i»ring- 
water  with  some  salt  in  it,  then  score  thh  skin  across  the 
thickest  part  of  the  back,  to  prevent  its  breaking  on  the  breast* 
which  Will  happen  from  the  fish  swelliiig,  and  cracking  the 
akin,  if  this  mecaution  be  not  used*  Put  a  larae  handful  of 
Mdt  into  a  fisn-ketUe  wiOi  cold  water,  lay  your  fish  on  a  fish-^ 
Hrainer,  put  it  in,  and  when  it  is  cpming  to  a  boil,  skim  it' 
well ;  then  set  the  kettle  on  the  side  of  the  fire,  to  boil  as 
gently  as  possible  for  about  fifteen  or  twenty  ipinutes  (if  it 
boils  fast,  the  fish  will  break  to  (Heces) ;  supposing  it  a  mid* 
d]ing*siaed  tmbot,  and  to  weigh  eight  or  nine  pounds. 

Rub  a  little  of  the  inside  rod  coral  spawn  of  the  lobster 
throufffa  a  hair  sieve,  without  butter;  a^  when  the  turbot 
is  diraed,  iq>rinkle  the  spawn  ever  it.  Garnish  the  dish 
with  sprigs  of  curled  pamiey,  sliced  lemon,  and  finely^scraped 
horseradish. 

y  you  like  .to  send  it  to  table  in  full  dress,  surround  it 
with  nicely-fried  smelts  (No..  173],  gudgeons  are  often  used 
for  this  purpose,  and  may  be  bought  very  cheap  when  smelts 
axe  very  dear ;  lay  the  largest  opposite  the  broadest  part  of 
the  turbot,  so  that  they  may  fonn  a  well-prqporti<med  fringe 
for  it ;  or  oysters  (No.  183*>;  or  ©ut  a  sole  in  strips,  cross* 
ways,  about  the  size  of  a  smelt ;  fry  them  as  directed  in  No. 
146,  and  lay  them  round.  Send  up  lobster  sauce  (No.  284) ; 
two  boats  of  it,  if  it  is  for  a  large  party.  •    • 

N.B.  Cold  turbot,  with  No.  372  for  sauce ;  or  take  off  the 
fillets  thflt  are  left  as  soon  as  the  tuibot  returns  from  table, 
and  they  will  make  a  side  dish  for  your  next  dinner,  wanned 
inNo.  364— 8. 

Obs.  The  thickest  part  is  the  favourite ;  and  the  carver  of 

■  • 

*  **  I  h»ve  aseertaSned,  by  many  yean*  obaervationi  that  a  tarbot  kept  two  or  thne 
days  i8  mneh  better  eatiiig  than  a  v«ry  freah  one.'*— iJds's  Cookery ,  p.  83H. 

"  TuRBOTs.  The  finest  brought  to  the  Iiondon  market  are  caught  oif  the  Dutch 
Coast,  or  German  Ocean,  and  are  brought  in  weU-boats  alive.  The  commencement 
of  the  seaaon  is  generally  about  March  and  April,  and  continuea  all  the  amnmer. 
TurboCB,  Uke  other  flab,  do  not  spawn  all  at  tha  same  time ;  therefore,  there  la  always 
good  and  bad  nearly  all  the  year  round.  For  thia.  year  or  two  paat,  there  has  been 
an  Immense  quantity  brought  to  London,  from  all  parts,  and  of  all  qualities :  a  great 
many  from  a  new  fishery  off  Hartlepool,  "which  are  very  handsome-looking  tu^NM, 
but  by  no  means  equal  to  what  are  cauf^t  ofiT  the  Dutcji  coast. '  Many  excellent 
tnrtMls  aie  caught  off  Dover  and  Dungeness;  and  a  large  quantity  brought  from 
ftoatland,  packed  Jn  ice,  wfaksh  are  of  a  very  Inferior  qnalityi  and  are  gaairal^'to 
be  boH^t  tot  about  one-fourth  the  price  of  good  turbots. 

**  BriUt  are  generally  caught  at  the  same  place  as  tuibots,  and  aito  generally  of  the 
same  uallty  as  the  turbot^  from  the  diflbrent  parts.** 


FI3H.  169 

titts  fish  must  rett^ember  to  ask  his  fritnds  if  they  are  iia« 
fanciers.  It  will  save  a  troublesome.  Job  to  the  carver,  if 
the  cook,  when  the  fish  is  boiled,  cuts  the  spine-bone  across 
the  middle* 

A  Briff,— (No.  143.) 
Is  dressed  the  same  way  as  a  turbot. 

Soles  to  6otl.— (No.  144.) 

A  fine,  fresh,  thick  sole  is  almost  as  good  eating  as  a 
tuibot. 

Wash  and  clean  it  nicely ;  put  it  into  a  fish-kettle  with  a 
handful  of  salt,  and  as  much  cold  water  as  will  cover  it ;  set 
it  on  the  Iside  of  the  fire,  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and 
let  it  boil  gently;  about  Aye  minutes  (according  to  its  size) 
will  be  long  enough,  unless  it  be  very  large.  Send  it  up  on 
a  fish-drainer,  garnished  with  ^ces  of  lemon  and  sprigs 
of  curled  parsley,  or  nicely-fried  smelts  (No.  173),  or  oys- 
ters (No.  183). 

065.  Slices  of  lemon  are  a  universally  acceptable  garnish 
with  either  fried  or  broiled  fish:  a  few  sprigs  of  crisp 
parsley  may  be  added,  if  you  wish  to  make  it  look  very 
smart;  and  parsley,  or  fennel  and  butter,  are  excellent 
sauces  (see  Nos.  361  and  265),  or  chervil  ^uce  (No.  264), 
anchovy  (No.  270). 

N.B.  Boiled  soles  are  very  good  warmed  up  like  eels, 
Wiggy's  way  (No.  164),  or  covered  with  white  sauce  (No. 
364—2;  and  see  No.  158). 

SoUsj  or  other  Ftsh,  toJry.^(No.  145.) 

Soles  are  generally  to  be  procured  good  from  some  part 
of  the  coast,  as  some  are  going  out  of  season,  and  some 
cominff  in,  both  at  the  same  time ;  a  great  many  are  brought 
in  wefi-boats  alive,  that  are  caught  off  Dover  and  Folk- 
stone,  and  some  are  brought  from  the  same  places  by  land- 
carriage.  The  finest  soles  are  caught  off  Pl3rmouth,  near 
the  Eddystone,  and  all  tiie  way  up  the  channel,  and  to  Tor- 
bay;  and  frequently  weigh  eight  or  ten  pounds  per  pair: 
they  are  generally  brought  by  water  to  Portsmouth,  an4 
thence  by  land;  but  the  greatest  quantity  are  caught  off 
Yarmoum  and  the  Knole,  and  off  the  Forelands. 

Be  sure  they  are  ^uite  fresh,  or  the  cleverest  cook  cannot 
make  them  either  look  or  eat  well. 

An  hour  before  you  intend  to  dress  them,  wash  them 

P 


ia 


i 


\r 


no 


IhoroQfffalT,  and  vrtm  tbem  in  a  clean  clo^  to  make  fhflM'^  '^ 
perfectly  dry,  or  the  l^readfOrumbs  will  not  stick  to  them.     * 

Prepare  some  breaa-camibft,*  by  rubbing  some  stale  bread 
through  a  colander;  qr,  u  you  wish  the  fish  to  appear  very 
delicate  and  hig^y-fipiehed,  through  a  hair-sieve;  or  use 
biscuit  powder. 

Beat  the  yelk  and  white  of  an  egg  wA  together,  on-  a« 
plate,  with  a  fork;  flour  your  fish,  to  absorb  any  moisture 
that  may  remain,  and  wipe  it  off  with  a  clean  cloth ;  dip 
them  in  the  egg  on  both  sides  all  over,  or,  jrhat  is  better, 
egg  them  with  a  paste-brush;  put  the  esg  on  in  an  even 
degree  over  the  whole  fish,  or  the  bread-cru]aS>8  wiU  not 
slick  tD  it  even,  and  the  uneven  part  will  bum  to  the  pan. 
Strew  the  bread-crumbs  all  over  the  fish,  so  that  they  | 

cover  every  part,  take  up  the  fish  by  the  head,  aftd  shake 
off  the  loose  crumbs.  Tne  fish  is  now  ready  for  the  fry- 
ing-pan. 

rut  a  quart  or  more  of  fresh  sweet  olive-oil,  or  clarified  ^ 

butter  (No.  359),  dripping  (No.  83),  lard,t  or  clarified  drip 
pings  (No.  83) ;  be  sure  they  are  quite  sweet  and  perfectly 
clean  (the  fat  ought  to  opver  the  fish) :  what  we  here  order 
is  for  soles  about  ten  inches  long ;  if  larger,  cut  them  into  \ 

pieces  the  proper  size  to  help  at  table ;  this  will  save  much  | 

time  and  trouble  to  the  carver:  when  you  send  them  to  \ 

table,  lay  them  in  the  same  fonn  they  were  before  they  were 
cut,  and  you  may  strew  a  little  curled  parsley  over  them : 
they  are  much  easier  managed  in  the  frying-pan,  and  require 
less  fat :  fry  the  thick  part  a  few  minutes  before  you  put  in 
the  thin,  you  can  by  this  means  only  fry  the  thick  part 
enough,  without  fryinff  the  thin  too  much.     Very  large  •    ! 

soles  should  be  boiled  (No.  144),  or  fried  in  fillets  (No. 
147).  Soles  cut  in  pieces,  crossways,  about  the  size  of  a 
smelt,  make  a  very  pretty  garnish  for  stewed  fish  and 
boiled  fish. 

Set  the  frying-pan  over  a  sharp  and  clear  fire ;  watch  it,  | 

skim  it  with  an  egg-slice,  and  when  it  boils,|  i.  e.  when  it  i 

has  done  bubbling,  and  the  smoke  just  begins  to  rise  from  i 

the  surface,  put  in  the  fish:  if  the  fat  is  not  extreinely  i 

hot,  it  is  imppssible  to  fry  fish  of  a  good  colour,  or  to  keep 

*  A  large  pair  of  soles  will  take  the  fourth  part  of  a  quartern  loaf,  which  now 
costs  twopence  halfpenny.  Oathxal  is  a  good  substitute  for  bread-crumbs,  and 
costs  comparatively  nothing ! ! 

t  The  PAT  toill  do  two  or  three  tinesy  if  strained  throudi  a  hair-sieve,  and  pat 
hy ;  if  yon  do  not  find  it  enough,  put  a  little  ftesh  to  it    Read  No.  83,  and  the  3d  . 

chapter  of  the  Rudiments  <tf  Cookery. 

t  This  requires  a  heat  of  upwards  of  600  degrees  of  Fahrenheit's  thermometer :  I 

— «-STiNo  is,  in  fact,  boiling  in  fat. 


-  '.  Fsr 


.#' 


them  firm  ax»i  vrisp.  (Read  the  a^hapter  of  the  Radir 
ments  of  Cookery.) 

The  best  way  to  ascerttin  tbp  heat  of  the  fat,  is  to  try  it 
with  a  bit  of  bread  as  big  as^  nut ;  af  it  is  quite  hot  enough, 
the  bread  will  brown  immediately.  Put  in  the  fish,  and  it 
will  be  crisp  and  brown  on  the  side  next  the  fire,  in  about 
four  or  five  mitfutes ;  to  turn  it,  stick  a  two>pronged  fork  near 
the  head,  and  support  the  tail  with  a  fish-slice,  and  fry  the 
^  other  side  nearly  the  same  length  of  time.    . 

Fry  one  soAe  at  a  time,  except  the  pan  is  very  large,  and 
you  have  plenty  of  fat. 

When  likie  fish  are  fried,  lay  them  on  a  soft  cloth  (old  table- 
cloChs  are  best),  near  enough  the  fire  to  keep  them  warm ; 
turn  them  eveiy  two  or  three  minmeB,  till  they  are  quite  diy 
on  bofh  sides ;  this  common  cooks  commonly  neelect.  It 
will  take  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,*  if  the  fat  yon  fried  them  in 
was  not  hot  enough ;  when  it  is,  they  want  very  little  drying. 
When  soles  are  fried,  they  will  keep  very  good  in  a  dry  place 
for  three  or  four  days ;  warm  them  by  hanging  them  on  the 
hooks  in  a  Dutch  oven,  letting  them  heat  very  gradually,  by 
putting  it  some  distance  from  tha  ^te  for  about  twenty  mi- 
nutes, or  in  good  gravy,  as  eels,  Wiggy's  way  (Nos.  164, 399, 
337,  or  356). 

Ob$,  There  are  several  general  rules  in  this  receipt  which 
apply  to  aU  fried  fish:  we  have  been  very  particular  and 
minute  in  our  directions;  for,  although  a  fried  sole  is  so 
frequent  and  favourite  a  dish,  it  is  very  seldom  brought  to 
table  in  perfection.t 

Soles  to  slew.— (No.  146.) 

These  are  half  ftied,  and  then  done  the  same  as  eels, 
Wiggy's  way.    See  No.  164. 

F^ts  of  Soles,  brofwn  or  wkdie. — (No.  147.) 
Take  off  the  fillets  very  nicely,  trim  them  neatly,  and 

*  If  yoa  are  in  haate,  lay  tbe  sole  on  a  clean,  soft  doth,  cover  it  with  it,  and  gent^ 
press  it  upon  the  fish,  to  sack  up  the  fat  from  its  surfece. 

t  The  very  indifferent  manner  in  wliich  the  operation  of  firing  fish  is  usnally 
performed,  we  suppose,  produced  the  following  jeu  ifcarpnt,  which  ajq^ared  in  TJte 
Mominff  O^anUU  .-'— 

"  The  KU)g*s  bench  reports  have  cook'd  up  an  odd  dish, 
An  action  for  damages,/ry  Tersus/sA. 


Bat|  sure,  if  f<»  damages  action  couTd  lie, 
It  certainly  must  have  been  jb*  against  jrry." 


The  author  of  7%e  CooVt  Cookery,  8vo.  page  110,  does  not  seem  to  think  thb  fish 
can  be  too  ftesh ;  1^  he'oommences  his  directions  with,  "  Jf  yon  can,  get  a  cod  Aof 
out  of  the  sea/' 4cc.  -  ' 


17t  ntH« 

pfeM9  them  dry  between  a  eofi  cloth;  eg^g, erumb,  and  frf 
thenit  &c.  as  directed  in  No.  145,  or  boil  them,  and  serre 
them  with  No.  364—8. 

N.B.  This  is  one  of  the  best  ways  of  dressing  very  laxgB 
soles.    See  also  No.  164. 

a(rte,*--(No.  148.) 

Is  very  good  when  in  good  season,  but  no  fish  so  bad  when 
it  is  otherwise :  those  persons  that  like  it  firm  and  dry,  should 
have  it  crimped ;  but  those  that  like  it  tender,  should  have 
it  plain,  and  eat  it  not  earlier  than  the  second  day,  and  if 
cold  weather,  three  or  four  days  old  it  is  better :  it  cannot  be 
kept  too  long,  if  perfectly  aweet.  Young  skate  eats  very 
fine  crimped  and  fried.'  See  No.  154. 

Cod  ftoiYerf.— (No.  149.) 

Wash  and  clean  the  fish,  and  rub  a  little  salt  in  the  inside 
of  it  (if  the  weather  is  very  cold,  a  large  cod  is  the  better 
for  being  kept  a  day) :  put  plenty  of  water  in  your  fish- 
kettle,  so  that  the  fish  may  be  well  covered;  put  in  a  large 
handful  of  salt ;  and  when  it  is  dissolved,  put  in  your  fish ; 
a  very  smaU  fish  will  require  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes 
after  the  water  boils,  a  large  one  about  half  an  hour;  drain 
it  on  the  fish-plate ;  dish  it  with  a  garnish  of  the  roe,  liver, 
chitterlings,  &c.  or  large  native  oysters,  fried  a  light  brown 
(see  No.  183*),  or  smelts  (No.  173),  whitings  (No.  153),  the 
tailf  of  the  cod  cut  in  slices,  or  bits  the  size  and  shape  of 

•  Tlie  skate  comes  to  the  New-York  market  in  the  spring,  but  is  not  esteemed, 
as  we  have  many  better  flab.    Tbe  part  about  the  flap  or  side-fin  is  best.   A. 

t  Tbe  TAIL  is  so  much  thinner  than  tlie  thick  part  of  tbe  body,  that,  if  boiled  to- 
lether,  the  former  will  be  boiled  too  much,  before  tM  latter  is  done  enough ;  there- 
fore it  should  be  dressed  separate;  and  the  best  way  of  cooking  it  is  to  Ay  it  in  slices 
or  fillets.    See  No.  151. 

"  Cod  generally  comes  into  good  season  in  October,  when,  if  the  weather  is  cold, 
it  eats  as  fine  as  at  any  time  in  the  year;  towards  tbe  latter  end  of  Januaiy  and 
Fdmiary,  and  pait  of  March,  they  are  mostly  poor;  but  the  latter  end  of  March, 
April,  and  May,  they  are  generally  particularly  fine ;  having  shot  their  spawn,  they 
come  in  fine  order.  7%«  Dogger-bank  cod  are  the  most  esteemed,  as  they  gene- 
ratty  cm  in  lam^  fine  flakes;  the  north-country  cod,  which  are  caught  off  ~the 
Orkney  Isles,  are  generally  very  stringy,  or  what  is  commonly  called  wooKy,  and 
Mil  at  a  very  Inftiior  price,  but  are  caught  in  much  greater  abundance  than  the 
Dognr  cod.  The  cod  are  all  caught  with  hook,  and  brought  alive  in  well-boats  to 
the  LandOT  markets.  The  cod  cured  on  the  Dogger-bank  is  remarkably  fine,  and 
seldom  cured  above  two  or  three  weeks  before  brought  to  market ;  the  barrel  cod  is 
commonly  cured  on  the  coast  of  Scotland  and  Yorkshire.  There  is  a  great  deal  of 
inferior  cured  salt-fish  brought  from  Newfoundland  and  Iceland. 

"The  SKULL  of  a  Dogger-bank  cod  is  one  of  those  concatenations  of  tit-bits 
which  some  epicures  are  fond  of,  either  baked  or  boiled:  it  is  composed  of  lots  of 
pntty  playthiDp  or  sueb  finery,  but  will  not  do  for  those  who  want  a  good  meal :  it 
may  be  bought  for  about  Ss. :  either  boil  it  whole,  or  cut  it  intq  pieces,  flour  and  dry 
them,  and  then  egg  and  crumb,  and  Ay  them,  or  stew  it  (No.  158}. 


nsH.  17S 

oysters,  or  split  it,  and  fry  it.  Scollbped  oysters  (No.  183), 
oyster  sauce  (No.  278),  slices  of  cod  cut  about  half  an 
inch  thick,  and  fried  as  soles  (NO.  145),  are  very  nice. 

Mbm.— ^The  souiTDs  (the  jeUy  parts  about  the  Jowl)^  the 
palate,  and  the  tons:ue  are  esteemed  exquisites  by  pisci* 
vorous  epicures,  whose  longing  eyea  will  keep  a  sharp 
look-out  for  a  share  of  their  favourite  ^  h<mne  houche:^^  the 
carver's  reputation  depends  much  on  his  equitable  distribu* 
tion  of  them.* 

SaU  Pidh  ftotZea.— <No.  150.) 

Salt  fish  requires  soaking,  according  to  the  time  it  has 
been  in  salt ;  trust  not  to  those  you  buy  it  of,  but  taste  a  bit 
of  one  of  the  flakes ;  that  which  is  hard  and  dry  reljuires 
two  nights*  soaking,  changing  the  water  two  or  three  tunes ; 
the  intermediate  day,  lay  it  on  a  stone  floor:  for  barrelled 
cod  less  time  will  do ;  and  for  the  best  Dogger-bank  split 
flsh,  which  has  not  been  more  than  a  fortnight  or  three 
weeks  in  salt,  stiQ  less  will  be  needful. 

Put  it  into  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  simmer  very 
gently  tin  it  is  enough ;  if  the  water  boils,  the  fish  will  bie 
tough  and  thready .f  For  egg  sauce,  see  No.  367 ;  and  to 
boil  red  beet-root.  No.  137;  parsnips.  No.  138;  Carrots, 
No»  139.  Garnish  salt  fish  with  the  yelks  of  eggs  cut  into 
quarters. 

Obs. — Our  favourite  vegetable  accompaniment  is  a  dish  of 
equal  parts  of  red  beet-root  and  parsnips. 

N.B.  Salted  fish  differs  in  quality  quite  as  much  as  it 
does  in  price. 

<(Tbe  TAIL  of  a  eod  eat  Ui  iUieii  or  slioet,  and  fried,  makei  a  good  diah,  and  is 
generally  to  be  bongbt  at  a  very  reaaonable  nile ;  If  boUed,  it  la  soft  and  watery. 
The  $kmtt  antd  <«»{  of  a  eod  It  a  fitvonrite  and  exoeHent  Scotch  dieh,  itewed,  and 
served  up  with  anchovy  or  oyster  aauoe.  with  the  llqaor  It  Is  boBed  In.  In  a  tureen. 

"  Limg  is  Iwought  to  the  London  mark«t  in  the  same  manner  as  cod,  but  is  very 
Inferior  to  it,  either  flesh  or  salt" 

*  There  are  several  species  ci(  codfish  sold  alive  in  the  New- York  marirats:  of 
these,  the  common  cod  is  the  best,  and  is  in  season  from  Noverab^  till  sprtw. 
The  price  varies  from  thrse  to  six  cents  the  pound,  as  the  market  Is  weD  or  seaat^ 
suppued.  The  bead  and  shoulders  of  a  large  cod,  boiled,  is  the  best  part  to  graee  the 
dinner-table.  It  is  fUn  of  rich  gelatinous  matter,  which  is  satoory  ana  easy  of 
digestion.  Cod^s  sounds  and  tongues  are  ibund  on  the  stalls  of  the  nshmongen  in 
Mm.    They  are  rich  and  nourishing,  and  may  be  prepared  to  garni 


tiw  winter  seaaein.    They  are  rich  and  nourishing,  and  maybe  prepared  to  garnish 
the  dish,  or  served  up  separately  boiled.    A. 

t  **In  the  sea-port  towns  of  the  Kew^Englaad  stales  In  Mnrth  America,  H  baa 
been  a  eostom,  time  iamMMMirial,  among  people  of  flidkion,  to  dine  cub  day  in  tl^ 
week  (Saturday)  on  salt  flsh:  and  a  long  babiil  of  preparing  the  same  dishhasi^as 
might  have  been  expected,  led  to  very  considerable  Improvements  in  the  art  of 
oookiMr  it  I  have  often  heard  forelgnen  dedare,  that  ibty  never  tasted  salt  Mi 
dressedi  in  suoh  peHbction :  the  secret  of  cooking  it,  is  to  keep  it  for  sevend  howa 
In  water  that  is  jtut  geatding-  Ase,  but  whkh  is  never  made  aetuaUy  lo  boiL*'— 
CovRT  UvJtroRVB  lOa  £s«ay,  p.  la 

P2 


174 


Slieti  t^  Cod  Joi/ed.— (No.  151.) 


Half  an  hour  before  you  dress  them,  put  them  into  cold 
Slffinf-water  with  some  eatt  in  it. 

Lay  them  at  the  bottom  of  a  fish-kettle,  with  as  much 
cold  spring-water  as  will  cover  them,  and  some  salt ;  set  it 
on  a  quick  flie,  and  when  it  boils,  skim  it,  and  set  it  on  oae 
aide  of  the  fire  to  boil  very  gently,  for  about  ten  minutes, 
accor^n^  to  its  size  and  thickness.  Gamiah  with  scraped 
horseradish,  slices  of  lemon,  and  a  slice  of  the  liver  on  one 
aide,  and  chitterliug  on  the  other.  Oyster  sauce  (No.  37B), 
and  plain  butter. 

Obt. — Slices  of  cod  (especially  the  tail,  split)  are  very 
Kood,  fried  like  soles  (No.  145),  Or  stewed  in  (iravy  like  eda 
(No.  104,  or  No.  364— S).» 

FrtA  Ster^Mu.— (No.  163.) 

The  best  mode  of  dressing  this,  is  to  have  it  cut  in  thin 

slices  like  veal  cutlets,  and  Iwoiled,  and  rubbed  over  with 

a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  pepper,  and  served  very  hot,4nd 

eaten  with  a  squeeze  of  lemon-juice.    Great  care,  however, 

must  be  taken  to  cut  off  the  skin  before  it  is  broiled,  aa  the 

I,  imparts  a  disgusting  flavour  to  the 

le,  and  comes  nearer  to  veal,  perhaps, 

y  plentiful  and  reasonable  in  the 
efer  this  mode  of  dressing  it  to  the 
!wing  it  in  rich  ^avy,  like  carp,  &c. 
guitar  flavour  of  the  fish.f 

Whiting*  jTied.-^tia.  163.) 

Skin^  them,  preserve  the  liver  (see  No.  328),  and  fasteo 
their  tails  to  their  mouths  -,  dip  them  in  egg,  then  in  bread- 
crumbs, and  fry  them  in  hot  lard  (read  No.  145),  or  split 
them,  and  fry  them  like  fillets  of  soles  (No.  147). 

A  three-quart  stew-pan,  half  fidl  of  ^t,  is  the  best  utensil 
to  fry  whitings.    They  will  be  done  enough  in  about  five 

u  Ills  mi|  i» 

.__lba[kMb-wu 

mta|tonfaiid«bMpiiUiani^fMaruiiuc&^  TSfutM,^'- 
■r(r,MMned  Man  tine  iud  ^Ibcc  Or  nuiiilii(*r  ilH  nimboita,  BDd  ilM  quiet* 
MB  of  iMt  !•■■■■,  Ill  ilH  nluBU*  <Mi  of  tlH  «ft«oi«  Bi«  fiwri  U  tbM  Euud 

t  Tbe  Fieneb  do  DM  S«r  Ana,  Inn  qlll  Uwm,  dip  tbem  In  flour,  ud  Ht  Uma  fa 

ll<H  dtipfllDf . 


[kMt^-wam  rlToi,  iDil 
~  temenr  « 


nsH.  175 

minutes ;  but  it  viiXL  sometimes  require  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
to  drsdn  the  fat  from  them  and  dry  them  (if  the  fat  you  put 
them  into  was  not  hot  enough),  turning  them  now  and  i&sa 
with  a  fish-slice. 

Obs. — ^When  whitings  are  scarce,  the  fishmongers  can 
skin  and  truss  young  codlings,  so  that  you  can  hardly  tell 
the  difl^erence,  except  that  a  codling  wears  a  beard,  and  a 
whiting  does  not:  this  distinguishing  mark  is  sometimes 
cut  ofi!";  however,  if  you  turn  up  his  jowl,  you  may  see  the 
mark  where  the  beard  was,  and  thus  discover  whether  he  be 
a  real  whiting,  or  a  shaved  codling. 

SkaU  fried.-^^o.  154.) 

After  you  have  cleaned  the  fish,  divide  it  into  fillets ;  dry 
them  on  a  clean  cloth ;  beat  the  yelk  and  white  of  an  egg 
thoroughly  together,  dip  the  fish  in  this,  and  then  in  fine 
bread-crumbs ;  fnr  it  in  hot  lard  or  drippings  till  it  is  of  a 
delicate  brown  colour;  lay  it  on  a  hair-sieve  to  drain ;  garnish 
with  crisp  parsley  (No.  318),  and  some  like  caper  sauce, 
with  an  anchovy  in  it. 

Plaice  or  Flounden^  fried  or  hoiUd* — (No.  155.) 

Flounders  are  perhaps  the  most  difficult  fish  to  fry  very 
nicely.    Clean  them  well,  flour  them,  and  wipe  tiiem  with'  a  ^ 
dry  cloth  to  absoib  all  the  water  from  them ;  flour  Of  M( 
and  bread-crumb  them,  &c.  as  directed  in  No.  149.      ^^^ — 

To  boil  Flounden. 

Wash  and  clean  them  well,  cut  the  black  side  of  them 
the  same  as  you  do  turbot,  then  put  Aem  into  a  fish- 
kettle,  with  plenty  of  cold  water  and  a  handful  of  salt ; 
when,  they  come  to  a  boil,  skim  them  clean»  and  let  them 
stand  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  and  they  are 
ready. 

0S5.-^Eaten  with  plain  melted  butter  and  a  little  salt,  you 
have  the  sweet  delicate  flavour  of  the  flounder,  which  is 
overpowered  by  any  sauce. 

Water  Sbtic^y,*— (No.  156.) 
Is  made  with  flounders,  whitings,  gudgeons,  or  eels.  These 

•  One  of  my  culinarr  ooanseUort  nys,  the  beading  of  thb  raeeipc  diould  be, 
**  Hmb  to  dnu  c  good  dith  of  Jtsh  wkOo  tko  iUth  it  Ittging:*  If  the  andcles  ue 
leady,  twelYe  mlnuieB  will  do  it,  with  very  litUe  troulile  or  expenie.  For  rieher 
«iewed  flsb,  lee  Nal6l.j 


1 76  FISH. 

mtutbequilefresli,  and  very  nicely  cleaned;  for  what  they 
ue  boiled  in,  is  the  sauce  for  them. 

Wsriit  guU  and  trim  your  fish,  cut  them  into  handsome 
pieces,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  just  as  much  water 
as  wiU  cover  them,  with  some  parsley,  or  parsley-roots 
diced,  an  onion  minced  fine,  ana  a  little  pepper  and  salt 
(to  Hub  some  cooIeb  add  aome  scraped  horseradish  and  a 
bay  leaT) ;  skim  it  carefully  when  it  boils  t  when  your  Ash 
is  done  enough  (which  it  will  be  in  a  few  minutes),  send  it 
up  in  a  deep  £flh,  lined  with  bread  sippets,  and  some  slices 
of  bread  and  butter  on  a  plate. 

06*. — Some  cooks  thicken  the  liquor  the  fish  has  been 
stewing  in  with  flour  and  butter,  and  flavour  it  with  white 
wine,  lemon-juice,  essence  of  anchovy,  and  catchup;  and 
boil  down  two  or  three  Bounder*,  ttc.  to  make  a  flsh  broth 
to  boil  the  other  fish  in,  observing,  that  the  broth  camurt  be 
good  unless  the  fish  are  boiled  too  much. 

Uaddodc  boiled.— {T^o.  157.) 


a  day  or  two,  are  eaten  with  egg  sauce, 
d  fried.  Or,  if  small,  very  well  broiled, 
[>udding  in  their  belly,  and  some  good 

ae  epicure  protests  that "  Haddock  is  the 
ims,  and  has  neither  the  dehcacy  of  the 
cyness  of  the  cod."^ 

x-munora  HaJifocfe.— (No.  157«.) 
Let  the  fish  be  well  cleaned,  and  laid  in  salt  for  two 
hours ;  let  the  water  drain  from  them,  and  then  wet  them 
with  the  pyroligneoua  acid ;  they  may  be  split  or  not :  they 
are  then  to  be  hung  in  a  dry  situation  for  a  day  or  two,  or  a 
week  or  two,  if  you  please;  when  broiled,  they.have  all  the 
flavour  of  the  Findhom  haddock,  and  will  keep  sweet  for  a 
long  time. 

The  pyroligneous  acid,  applied  in  the  same  way  to  beef  or    . 
mutton,  gives  the  fine  smoke  flavour,  and  may  be  kept  for  a 
considerable  length  of  time. 

Scotch  ■way  of  dret$ing  haddock.— k  haddock  is  quite  hke 
a  different  fisn  in  London  and  in  Edinburgh,  which  arises 

*  OureTpeiieDCEfKitainlxtsDIIiua  Ibesiuneiioln).    A, 


chi^  from  the  manner  in  which  they  are  treated :  a  haddock 
Bbonld  tiever  ai^iear  at  table  with  its  head  and  lAm  on.  For 
boiling,  they  are  all  the  belter  for  lying  a  night  in  salt ;  of 
course  they  do  not  take  eo  long  to  boil  without  the  skin,  and 
require  to  be  well  ekimmed  to  preserve  the  colour.  After 
lying  in  salt  for  a  n^t,  if  yon  hang  them  up  for  a  day  or 
two,  they  are  very  goml  broiled  and  served  witn  cold  butter. 
For  frying,  they  should  be  sjdit  and  boned  very  carefully, 
and  divided  into  convenient  pieces,  if  too  large  to  halve 
merely ;  egg  and  crumb  them,  and  fry  in  a  good  deal  of  lard ; '' 
they  resenuMe  sole*  when  dresHed  in  this  manner.  There  is 
another  very  delicate  mode  of  dressing  them ;  you  split  the 
fish,  rub  it  well  with  butter,  and  do  it  before  uie  fire  in  a 
Dutch  oven. 

To  tlttv  GnTt  3culi,  Sole,  Carp,  Trout,  Perch,  Eel,  or 
Ftomder.—tiQ.  ISS.    (See  also  No.  164.) 

When  the  fish  has  been  properly  washed,  lay  it  in  a  stew- 
pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  claret  or  port  wine,  and  a  qua^t  of 
good  gravy  (No.  339) ;  a  large  onion,  a  dozen  berries  of* 
black  pepper,  the  same  of  aUspice,  and  a  few  cloves,  or  a 
bit  of  mace:  cover  the  fish-ketl 
gently  for  ten  or  twenty  minutes, : 
of  the  (ish :  take  the  fish  up,  lay  il 
and  thicken  the  liquor  it  was  st 
and  season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  e 
room  catchup,  and  a  httle  Chili  vj 
ten  minutes,  strain  it  through  a  t 
fish :  if  there  is  more  sauce  than  1 
rest  up  in  a  boat. 

The  river  trout  comes  into  seas 
till  July ;  it  is  a  delicious  fish ;  those  caught  near  Uxbridge 
come  to  town  quite  alive. 

The  eels  and  perch  from  the  same  water  are  very  line. 

06s.— These  fish  are  very  nice  plain  boiled,  with  No,  361, 
or  No.  964,  for  sauce ;  some  cooks  dredge  them  with  floor, 
and  fry  them  a  light  brovro  before  they  put  them  on  to 
stew,  and  stuff  them  with  No.  374,  or  some  of  the  stuffings 
following. 

7'o  drtn  them  maigrt' 

Put  the  fish  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  large  onion,  four 

cloves,  fifteen  berries  of  allspice,  and  the  same  of  btack 

pepper;  just  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  set  it  where 

they  will  sinuner  gently  for  ten  or  twenty  minutes,  accord- 


178  nsR. 

ing  to  the  nize  of  the  fish ;  strain  nff  the  liquor  in  another 
stew-pan,  leaving  the  fish  to  keep  warm  till  the  sauce  is 
ready. 

Rub  together  on  a  plate  as  much  fiour  and  butter  as  will 
make  the  sauce  as  thick  as  a  double  cream.  Each  pint  of 
sauce  season  with  a  glass  of  wine,  half  as  much  musnroom 
cdXchupy  a  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  and  a  few 
grains  of  Cayenne ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  put  the  fish  on 
a  deep  dish,  strain  the  gravy  over  it ;  garnish  it  with  sippets 
of  bread  toasted  or  fried  ^No.  319). 

N.B.  The  editor  has  paid  particular  attention  to  the  above 
receipt,  and  also  to  No.  334,  which  Catholics,  and  those 
whose  religious  tenets  do  not  allow  them  to  eat  meat  on 
maigre  days,  will  find  a  very  satisfactory  substitute  for  the 
meat  gravy  soup  (No.  300). 

For  sauce  for  maigre  dishes,  see  Nos.  835,  305,  and 
364—3. 

Ob$,  Mushroom  catchup  (No.  439)  and  onions  (No.  403) 
supply  the  place  of  mea;t  better  than  any  thing;  if  you  have 
not  wse,  wine,  spice  (No.  457),  curry  powder  (No.  45£i), 
,  aromatic  roots  and  herbs,  anchovy  and  soy,  or  oyster  catchup 
(No.  441),  variously  combined,  and  thickened  with,  flour  and 
buttert  are  conveiyent  substitutes. 


Maigre  Fuk  Pies* 

Salt-fish  pie.  The  thickest  part  must  be  chosen,  and  put 
in  cold  water  to  soak  the  niffht  before  wanted ;  then  boil  it 
well,  take  it  up,  take  away  me  bones  and  skin,  and  if  it  in 
good  fish  it  will  be  in  fine  layers ;  set  it  on  a  fish-drainer  to 
get  cold :  in  the  mean  time,  boil  four  eggs  hard,  peel  and  slice 
3iem  very  thin,  the  same  quantity  of  onion  sliced  thin;  line 
the  bottom  of  a  pie-dish  with  fish  forcemeat  (No.  383),  or  a 
layer  of  potatoes  sliced  thin,  ^n  a  layer  of  onions,  then  of 
fish,  and  of  eggs,  and  no  on  till  the  dish  is  full ;  season  each 
layer  with  a  little  pepper,  then  nux  a  tea-spoonful  of  made 
mustard^  the  same  of  essence  of  anchovy,  a  little  mushroom 
catchup,  in  a  gOl  of  water,  put  it  in  the  msh,  then  put  on  lih& 
top  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter  broke  in  bits ;  cover  it  with  puff 
paste,  and  bake  it  one'hour. 

Fresh  ood  maybe  done  in  the  same  way,.by  adding  a  little 
i^t. 

All  fish  for  making  pies»  whe^r  soles,  flounders,  herrings,, 
salmon,  lobster,  eels,  trout,  tench,  &c.  should  be  dressed 
first ;  this  is  the  most  economical  way  for  Catholic  families, 


as  whst  is  boiled  one  day  *ni]l  make  excellent  pies  or  pattiei 
the  next. 

If  you  intend  it  for  piea,  take  the  skin  off,  and  the  bones 
oat ;  lay  your  salmon,  soles,  tuibot,  or  codfish,  in  layers,  and 
season  each  layer  with  equal  (juadtities  of  pepper,  allspice, 
mace,  and  salt,  till  the  dish  is  full.  Save  a  little  or  the 
liquor  that  the  fish  was  boiled  in  ^  set  it  on  the  fire  with  Uie 
bones  and  skin  of  the  fish,  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
strain  it  through  a  sieve,  let  it  settle,  and  pour  it  in  the  dish ;  ^ 
cover  it  with  puff-paste ;  bake  it  about  an  hour  and  a  quarter. 
Shrimps,  prawns,  or  oysters  added,  will  improve  the  above ; 
if  for  pattiee,  they  roust  be  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  dressed 
in  a  beshameU  sauce  (No.  364). 

Cod-sounds  for  a  pie  should  be  soaked  at  least  twenty-four 
hours,  then  well  washed,  and  put  on  a  cloth  to  dry.  Put  in 
a  stew-pan  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  with  four  ounces  of 
sliced  onions ;  f^  them  of  a  nice  brown,  then  put  in  a  small 
table-spoonful  of  Oour,  and  add  half  a  piut  of  boiling  water; 
when  smooth,  put  in  about  ten  cod-sounds,  and  season  them 
with  a  little  pepper,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  tea^poonful  of 
essence  of  anchovy,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  stir  it  well 
toother,  put  it  in  a  pie-dish,  cover  it  with  paste,  and  bake  it 
one  hour. 

PenA,  Roach,  Daet,  (htdgeont,  t 
Wash  the  fish  well,  wipe  them  o 
lightly  sll  over,  and  fry  them  ten 
1e^  or  drippings ;  lay  them  on  a  I 
them  up  on  a  hot  dish,  garnished  wit 
Anchovy  sauce,  Nob.  3T0  and  433. 

Pe«A  Wfed.*— (No.  160.) 
Clean  them  carefully,  and  pat  them  in  a  fish-kettle,  with  as 
much  cold  spring'water  as  will  cover  them,  with  a  handfUl 
of  salt;  set  them  on  a  quick  Gre  till  they  boil;  when  they 
boil,  set  them  on  one  side  to  boil  gently  for  about  ten  minuleB, 
according  to  their  size. 

Saimon,  Herrngi,  ^trait.  Mackerel,  ^,  ptdUed.— (No.  161.) 

Cut  the  fish  into  proper  pieces ;  do  not  take  off  the  scales ; 

make  a  brine  strong  enou^  to  bear  an  egg,  in  which  boil  the 

(lab ;  it  must  be  boiled  in  only  just  liquor  enough  to  cover  it ; 


180  nsfl.  «  ^ 

do  not  overboil  it.  When  the  ilsh  is  boiled,  lay  it  slantingly 
to  drain  off  all  the  liquor;  when  cold, pack  it  close  in  the 
kits,  and  fill  them  up  with  equal  parts  of  tne  liquor  the  salmon 
was  boiled  in  (having  first  well  skimmed  it),  and  best  vihegar 
(No.  S4) ;  let  them  rest  for  a  day ;  fill  up  again,  striking  the 
sides  of  the  kit  with  a  cooper's  adze,  until  the  kit  will  receive 
•  no  more;  then  head  them  down  as  close  as  possible. 
f  Ciu  This  is  in  the  finest  condition  when  fresh.  Salmon 
18  most  plentiful  about  midsummer ;  the  season  for  it  is  from 
February  to  September.  Some  sprigs  of  fresh-gathered 
yoottff  fennel  are  the  accompaniments. 

N.B.  The  three  indispensable  marks  of  the  goodness  of 
pickled  salmon  are,  1st,  The  brightness  of  the  scales,  and 
their  sticking  fast  to  the  skin ;  3dly,  The  firmness  of  the 
fiesh;  and,  3dlv,  Its  fine,  pale-red  rose  colour.  Without 
these  it  is  not  fit  to  eat,  and  was  either  stale  before  it  was 
pickled,  or  has  been  kept  too  long  after. 

The  above  was  given  us  as  the  actual  practice  of  those 
who  pickle  it  for  the  London  market. 

N.B.  Pickled  salmon  warmed  by  steam,  or  in  its  pickle 
liquor,  is  a  favourite  dish  at  Newcastle. 

Salmon*  6<»W.— (No.  162.) 

4 

Put  on  a  fish-kettle,  with  spring-water  enough  to  well 
cover  the  salmon  you  are  going  to  dress,  or  the  salmon  will 
neither  look  nor  taste  well:  (boil  the  liver  in  a  separate 
saucepan.)    When  the  water  boils,  put  in  a  handful  of  salt ; 

*  Saukoh.  The  earltoat  that  comts  in  eeawii  to  the  Loodon  market  ia  brought 
fiom  the  Severn,  and  begins  to  come  into  season  the  beginning  of  November,  but 
very  fbw  so  early,  perhaps  not  above  one  in  fifty,  as  many  of  them  will  not  shoot 
theur  spawn  till  January,  or  after,  and  then  continue  in  season  till  October,  when 
they  begin  to  get  very  thin  and  poor.  The  principal  supply  of  salmon  is  from  dif- 
ferent parts  of  ScotU&nd,  packed  in  iee,  and  brought  by  water :  if  the  vessels  have 
«  fair  wind,  they  wiU  be  m  London  in  three  days ;  bat  it  frequently  happens  that 
they  are  at  sea  perhaps  a  fortnight,  when  the  greatejr  part  of  the  fish  is  perished. 
and  iHifl,  for  a  year  or  two  past,  sold  as  low  as  twopence  per  pound,  and  up  to  as 
mucjb  as  eighteen  pence  per  pound  at  the  same  time,  owmg  to  its  dinbrent  degrees 
of  goodness.  This  accounts  for  the  very  low  prices  at  which  the  itinerant  fish- 
mongera  cry  tiieir  "  ddieate  sbUbod,**  '*  dotnty  fruh  salmon,**  and  "  Uw  cod,** "  new 
mackerel,"  Ace.  &c. 

"^  Sahuon  gwilts,  or  salmon  peel,  are  the  small  salmon  which  run  from  about  five 
or  six  pounds  to  ten  pounds,  are  very  good  fish,  and  make  handsome  dishes  of  fisli, 
sent  to  table  crooked  in  the  foim  of  an  S. 

"  Berwick  trout  are  b  distuict  fish  from  the  gwilts,  and  are  caught  in  the  river 
i  Tweed,  and  dressed  in  the  same  manner  as  the  gwilt. 

*'  Calvered  salmon  is  the  saknon  caught  in  the  Thames,  and  cut  into  slices  alive : 
uid  sofloe  few  salmon  are  brobght  from  Oxfbrd  to  London  alive,  and  cut  A  few 
slices  make  a  handsome,  genteel  dish,  but  it  ia  generally  very  expensive ;  some- 
time 15a.  per  pound.'* 

CFre^h  sabnoii  cornea  to  the  New- York  market  from  the  eastern  states,  and  mosiiv 
from  Maine.  It  is  alfooccasionallybrought  from  fbe  lakes  and  riven  of  the  northern 
part  of  New- York  in  winter.   A.} 


i 


181 

take  off  lihe  Bcnm  as  soon  as  it  rises;  have  the  iish  well 
washed ;  put  it  in*  and  if  it  is  thick,  let  it  boil  veiy  gently. 
Salmon  requires  almost  as  much  .boiling  as  meat;  about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  to  a  pound  oi  fish :  but  practice  only  can 
perfect  the  cook  in  dressing  salmon.  A  quarter  of  a  salmon 
nvill  take  almost  as  longbofiing  as  half  a  one :  you  must  coi^ 
sider  the  thickness,  not  the  weight :  ten  pounds  of  fine  full- 
grown  salmon  will  be  done  in  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Lob* 
ster  Sauce,  No.  384. 

06ff.  The  thinnest  part  of  the  fish  is  the  fattest ;  and  if  )rou 
have  a  ^  grand  gourmand''  at  table,  ask  him  if  he  is  for  thick 
or  thin. 

The  Thames  salmon  is  preferred  in  the  London  market ; 
and  some  epcures  pretend  to  be  able  to  distinguii^  by  the 
taste,  in  which  reach  of  the  river  it  was  caught ! ! ! 

N.B.  If  you  have  any  left,  put  it  into  a  pie-dish,  and  coyer 
it  with  an  equal  portion  of  vinegar  and  pump-water,  and  a 
little  salt:  it  will  oe  ready  in  three  days. 

Frtih  Salmon  6rot26t2.— (No.  163.) 

'  Clean  the  salmon  well,  and  cut  it  into  slices  about  an  inch 
and  a  half  thick ;  dry  it  thoroughly  in  a  clean  cloth ;  rub  it 
over  with  sweet  oil,  or  thick  melted  butter,  and  s|Mrinkle  a 
little  salt  over  it:  put  your  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  at  some 
distance ;  when  it  is  hot  wipe  it  clean ;  rub  it  with  sweet  oil 
or  lard ;  lay  the  salmon  on,  and  when  it  is  done  on  one  side, 
turn  it  gently  and  broil  the  other.  Anchovy  sauce,  ftc. 
Obs,  An  oven  does  them  best. 

Soles  or  Eels^*  ire.  Src.  Uewed  Wiggy's  ivay. — (No.  164.) 

Take  two  pounds  of  fine  silver!  eels':  the  best  are  those 
that  are  rather  more  than  a  half-crown  piece  in  circum- 
ference, quite  fresh,  full  of  life,  and  ^  as  brisk  as  an  eel;^ 
such  as  have  been  kept  out  of  water  till  they  can  scarce  stfir, 
are  good  for  nothing :  gut  them,  rub  them  with  salt  till  the 
slime  is  cleaned  from  them,  wash  them  in  several  different 
waters,^  and  divide  them  into  pieces  about  four  inches  long. 

Some  cooks,  after  skinning  them,  dredge  them  with  a  little 
flour,  wipe  them  dry,  and  then  egg  and  crumb  tiiem,  and  fry 

*  SnaD  nab  and  Slleia  of  whidMUtadwto,  brilli,  4be.  tad  diea  af  cod,  or  tba 
head  or  taU  of  it,  are  excellent  dreaaed  the  aame  wav. 

t  The  vellow  eela  taste  muddy ;  the  whittnea  of  the  beBy  of  the  fiah  to  net  the 
onlsnaark  to  know  die  beat;  the  right  coloor  of  the  back  to  a  Tery  brl^t  coppery 
hue :  the  oliTe-coloored  are  inferior;  and  those  tending  to  a  grean  ar«  wone. 

Q 


9.m 


182  FISH. 

them  in  drippings  till  they  are  brown,  and  lay  them  to  dry  ou 
a  hair  sieve. 

Have  ready  a  quart  of  good  beef  gravy  (No.  329) ;  it  must 
be  cold  when  yon  put  the  eels  into  it :  set  them  on  a  slow  fire 
to  simmer  very  gently  for  about  a  Quarter  of  an  hour,  accord- 
ing to  the  size  of  the  eels ;  watcn  them,  that  they  are  not 
done  too  much ;  take  them  carefully  out  of  the  stew-pan  with 
•  fish-slice,  so  as  not  to  tear  their  coats,  and  lay  them  on  a 
dish  about  two  inches  deep. 

Or,  if  for  maigre  days,  when  you  have  skimied  your  eels^ 
throw  the  skins  into  salt  and  water;  wash  them  well;  then 
put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  quart  of  water,  two  onions, 
with  two  cloves  stuck  in  eadi,  and  one  blade  of  mace ;  let 
it  boil  twenty  minutes,  and  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  a 
basin. 

Make  the  sauce  about  as  thickas  cream,  by  mixing  a  little 
fiour  with  it;  put  in  also  two  table-spoonfuls  of  port  wine, 
and  one  of  mushroom  catchup,  or  cavice :  stir  it  into  the 
sauce  by  degrees,  give  it  a  bofl,  and  strain  it  to  the  fish 
throuffh  a  sieve. 

N.B.  If  mushroom  sauce  (Nos.  325, 305,  or  333),  or  white 
sauce  (No.  364 — 3),  be  used  instead  of  beef  gravy,  this  will 
be  one  of  the  most  relishing  mai^  dishes  we  know. 

Oin.  To  kill  eels  instantly,  without  the  horrid  torture  of 
cutting  and  skinning  them  alive,  pierce  the  spinal  marrow, 
close  to  the  back  part  of  the  skull,  with  a  sharp-pointed 
skewer:  if  this  be  done  in  the  right  place,  all  motion wiH 
instantly  cease.  The  humane  executioner  does  certain  cri- 
minals the  favour  to  hang  them  before  he  breaks  them  on 
the  wheel. 

To  fry  Ec/j.— (No.  165.) 

Skin  and  gut  them,  and  wash  them  well  in  cold  water,  cut 
them  in  pieces  four  inches  long,  season  them  with  pepper  and 
salt;  beat  an  egg  w^  on  a  plate,  dip  them  in  the  egg,  and 
then  in  fine  bres^-crumbs ;  fry  them  in  fresh,  clean  lard; 
drain  them  well  from  the  fat ;  garnish  with  crisp  parsley. 
For  sauce,  plain  and  melted  butter,  sharpened  with  lemon-, 
juice,  or  parsley  and  butter. 

Spitdiocked  £e^.— (No.  166.) 

Thiathe  French  cooks  call  the  English  way  of  dressing 
eels. 

Take  two  middling-sized  silver  eels,  leave  the  skin  on, 
scour  them  with  salt,  and  wash  them,  cut  off  tli^  heads,  sUi 


y 


i 


183 

them  on  the  bdUy  side,  and  take  out  the  bones  and  gfnts,  and 
wash  and  wipe  them  nicely ;  then  cut  them  into  pieces  about 
three  inches  long^,  and  wipe  them  quite  dry;  put  two  ounces 
of  butter  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  minced  parsley,  thjrme, 
sage,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  very  little  chopped  eschalot; 
set  the  stew-pan  over  the  fire ;  when  the  butter  is  melted,  stir 
the  ingredients  together,  and  take  it  off  the  fire,  mix  the  yelks 
of  two  eggs  with  them,  and  dip  the  eel  in,  a  piece  at  a  time/ 
and  then  roll  them  in  bread-crumbs,  making  as  much  stick 
to  them  as  you  can ;  then  rub  the  gridiron  with  a  bit  of  suet, 
set  it  high  over  a  very  clear  fire,  and  broil  your  eels  of  a  fine 
crisp  brown.  Dish  them  with  crisp  parsley,  and  send  up 
with  plain  butter  in  a  boat,  and  anchovy  and  butter. 

Obs.  We  like  them  better  with  the  skin  off;  it  is  veiy  apt 
to  ofi^nd  delicate  stomachs. 

'  Mackerd  6ot2eJ.*— (No.  67.) 

This  fish  loses  its  life  as  soon  as  it  leaves  the  sea,  and  the 
fresher  it  is  the  better. 

Wash  and  clean  them  thoroughly  (the  fishmongers  seldom 
do  this  sufficiently),  put  them  into  cold  water  with  a  handful 
of  salt  in  it ;  let  ihem  rather  simmer  than  boil ;  a  smaU 
mackerel  will  be  done  enough  in  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour ; 
when  the  eye  starts  and  the  tail  splits,  they  are  done ;  do  not 
let  them  stand  in  the  water  a  moment  after ;  they  are  so 
delicate  that  the  heat  of  the  water  will  break  them. 

This  fish,  in  London,  is  rarely  fresh  enough  to  appear  at 
table  in  perfection ;  and  either  the  mackerel  is  boiled  too 
much,  or  the  roef  too  little.  The  best  way  is  to  open  a  slil 
opposite  the  middle  of  the  roe,  you  can  then  clean  it  nro- 
perly ;  this  will  allow  the  water  access,  and  the  roe  will  then 
be  done  as  soon  as  the  fish,  which  it  seldom  is  otherwise.; 
some  sagacious  gourmands  insist  upon  it  they  must  be  taken 
out  and  boiled  separately.  For  sauce,  see  Nos.  963,  365, 
and  366 ;  and  you  may  garnish  them  with  pats  of  minced 
fennel. 


*  There  are  aeveral  neciea  of  mackerel  in  their  eeaaoi^  in  the  New- York  i 
That  which  arrives  in  tne  spring  is  most  esteemed,  and  In  greatest  plentyt  Spi)ag 
mackerel  is  a. migrating  fish,  and  succeeds  the  shad,  or  c(mimenoes  its  run  along 
the  coast  of  New-Jersey  and  Long  Island,  jost  befbce  the  riiad  disappean.  n  does 
not  ascend  the  rivers,  but  continues  its  course  north-eastward  in  inunenae'stioahi 
and  is  taken  by  the  fishermen  with  the  liook  and  line,  while  saili^  hi  smacks  akMg 
the  coast,  from  the  mouth  of  the  Delaware  to  Nova  Seotia.  These  flsh  are  kepc  In 
can,  and  sold  alive  in  the  markets.  Thqr  are  mostly  broiled,  and  brought  to  the 
break&st-taMe.  The  laiger  ones  sometim^B  grace  the  dlnii^-taUe.  Timy  may 
be  boHed,  but  aro  best  when  stuflbd  and  baked  m  an  oven.    A. 

t  The  roe  of'the  male  flsh  is  soft,  like  the  bcaint  of  a  calf;  that  pf  the  Anale  hi 
full  of  anall  tupt  ud  called  hard  roe. 


184  nea. 

N.B.  The  conunon  notion  is,  that  mackerel  are  in  best 
condition  when  fUUeet  of  roe ;  however,  the  fish  at  that  time 
is  oaky  valuahle  for  its  roe,  the  meat  of  it  has  scarcely  any 
flavour. 

Mackerel  gieneraUy  make  their  appearance  off  the  Land's 

JBnd  about  tSe  beginning  of  April ;  and  as  the  weather  gets 

warm  they  gradi»lly  come  romid  the  coac^,  and  geneiilly 

*  arrive  off  Brighton  about  May,  and  continue  U)r  ^ome 

months,  until  £ey  begin  to  shoot  their  ^)a¥m. 

After  they  l^ve  let  go  their  roes,  they  are  called  shotten 
macker^  and  are  not  worth  catching;  the  roe,  which  was 
all  that  was  good  of  them,  being  gone. 

It  is  in  the  early  season,  when  they  have  least  roe,  that 
the  flesh  of  this  fish  is  in  Inghest  perfection*  There  is  also 
an  after-season,  when  a  few  fine  large  mackerel  are  takei), 
(t.  e.  during  the  herring  season,  about  October,)  which  some 
piscivorous  epicures  are  very  partial  to ;  these  fish  having 
had  time  to  fatten  and  recover  their  health,  are  full  of  high 
flavour,  and  their  flesh  is  firm  and  juicy :  they  are  commoifly 
called  silver  mackerel,  from  their  beautiful  appearance,  their 
colour  being  almost  as  bright  when  boiled  as  it  was  the 
moment  they  were  caught. 

Maekerd  braUed.-^No,  169.) 

Clean  a  fine  large  mackerel,  wipe  it  on  a  dry  cloth,  and 
cut  a  long  slit  down  the  back ;  lay  it  on  a  clean  gridiron^ 
over  a  very  clear,  slow  fire ;  when  it  is  done  on  one  side, 
turn  it ;  foe  careful  that  it  does  not  bum ;  send  it  up  with 
fennel  sauce  (No.  265) ;  mix  well  together  a  little  finely 
minced  fennel  and  parsley,  seasoned  with  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  a  bit  of  fresh  butter,  and  when  the  mackerel  are  ready 
for  the  table,  put  some  of  this  into  each  fish. 

Mackerel  fco^cd.*— (No.  170.) 

Cut  off  their  heads,  open  them,  and  take  out  the  roes  and 
clean  them  thoroughly ;  rub  them  on  the  inside  with  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  put  the  roes  in  again,  season  them  (with  a 
mixture  of  powdered  allspice,  black  pepper,  and  salt,  well 
rubbed  together),  and  lay  them  close  in  a  baking-pan,  cover 
them  with  equal  quantities  of  cold  vinegar  and  water,  tie 
them  down  with  strong  white  paper  doubled,  and  bake 

•  Mackerel  of  laree  aize  may  be  Bluffed  like  a  fowl,  leavioa  the  head  on.  and 
baked  la  an  oven.    A.  >        -^  t 


186 

them  for  an  hour  in  a  slow  OYcn.    They  will  keep  for  a 
fortnight* 

Fidded  Madterdj  Herringt^  iyr  i^otf.— (No.  171.) 

Procure  them  as  fresh  as  possible,  split  them,  take  off  the 
heads,  and  trim  off  the  thin  part  of  the  belly,  put  them  into 
salt  and  water  for  one  hour,  drain  and  wipe  your  fish,  and 
put  them  into  jars  or  casks,  with  the  following  preparatioii, 
which  is  enough  for  thiee  dozen  mackerel.  Take  sah  and 
bay-salt,  one  pound  each,  saltpetre  and  lump-sugar,  two 
ounces  each ;  grind  and  pound  the  salt,  &c.  well  together, 
put  the  fish  into  jars  or  casks,  with  a  layer  of  the  prepara- 
tion at  the  bottom,  then  a  layer  of  mackerel  with  the  skin- 
side  downwards,  so  continue  alternately  till  the  cask  or  jar 
is  full ;  press  it  down  and  cover  it  close.  In  about  three 
months  they  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Spr<U»  hroikd.-^^o.  170*— /n«4  see  No.  173.) 

If  you  have  not  a  sprat  gridiron,  get  a  piece  of  pointed 
iron  wire  as  thick  as  packtluread,  um  as  long  as  your  grid* 
iron  is  broad ;  run  this  tlurough  the  heads  of  your  ^rats, 
sprinkle  a  little  flour  and  salt  over  them,  pot  yoiff  gridiron 
over  a  clear,  auick  fire,  turn  them  in  about  a  couple  of  nii« 
nutes ;  when  the  other  side  is  brown,  draw  out  the  wire,  and 
send  up  the  fish  with  melted  butter  in  a  cup. 

06«.  That  sprats  are  young  herring,  is  evident  by  their 
anatomy,  in  which  there  is  no  perceptible  difference.  They 
appear  very  soon  after  the  herrings  are  gone,  and  seem  to 
be  the  spawn  just  vivified. 

Spna$  Hewed.'^No.  HO**.) 

Wash  and  dry  your  sprats,  and  lay  them  as  level  as  you 
can  in  a  stew-pan,  and  between  every  layer  of  sprats  put 
three  peppercorns,  and  as  many  allspice,  with  a  few  grams 
of  salt ;  barely  cover  them  with  vinegar,  and  stew  them  one 
hour  over  a  slow  fire;  they  must  not  boil:  a  bay-leaf  is 
sometimes  added.  Herrings  or  mackerel  may  be  stewed 
the  same  way. 

To  fry  sprats,  see  No.  173. 

Herrings  feroilcrf.— (No.  171*.) 

Wash  them  well,  then  dry  them  with  a  cloth,  dust  them 
with  flour,  and  broil  them  over  a  slow  fire  till  they  are  weU 
done.    Send  up  melted  butter  in  a  boat. 

Q3 


186  FIBH. 

Obs*  For  a  psurticulax  account  of  herrings,  see  Solas 
Dodd's  ffaiurcH  niO,  of  ^rringt,  in  178  pages,  8vo.  1752. 

Red  HerringSf  and  other  dried  Fisfh — (No.  172.) 

**  Should  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner  as  now  practised 
by  the  poor  in  Scotland.  They  soak  them  in  water  until 
they  become  pretty  fresh ;  they  are  then  hung  up  in  the  smi 
and  wind,  on  a  stick  through  their  eyes,  to  dry;  and  then 
boiled  or  broiled.  In  this  way  they  eat  almost  as  well  ag^if 
they  were  new  caught.*'  See  the  Hon.  Jons  Cochrane's 
SeamaiCt  Gtdde,  8yo.  1797,  p.  34. 

^  Scotch  haddocks  sliould  be  soaked  all  night.  You  may 
boil  or  broil  them ;  if  you  broil,  split  them  in  two. 

^  All  the  different  sorts  of  dried  fish,  except  stock  fish,  are 
salted,  dried  in  the  sun  in  prepared  kilns,  or  by  the  smoke  of 
wood  fires,  and  require  to  be  softened  and  freshened,  in  pro- 
%  portion  to  their  bmk,  nature,  or  dryness ;  the  very  dry  sort, 
as  cod,  whiting,  &c.  should  be  steeped  in  lukewarm  water, 
kept  as  near  as  possible  to  ^  equad  degree  of  heat.  The 
laiqger  fish  should  be  steeped  twelve  hours,  the  smaller  about 
two ;  after  which  they  should  be  taken  out  and  hung  up  by 
the  tails  until  they  are  dressed.  The  reason  for  hanging 
them  up  is,  that  they  soften  equally  as  in  the  steeping,  wit£ 
out  extracting  too  much  of  the  relish,  which  would  render 
thehi  insipid.  When  thus  prepared,  the  small  fish,  as  whiting, 
tusks,  &c.  should  be  floured  and  laid  on  the  gridiron ;  and 
when  a  little  hardened  on  one  side,  must  be  turned  and 
basted  with  sweet  oil  upon  a  feather;  and  when  basted  on 
both  sides,  and  well  heated  through,  taken  up.  A  clear 
charcoal  fire  is  the  best  for  cooking  them,  and  the  fish  should 
be  kept  at  a  good  distance,  to  broil  gradually.  When  they 
are  done  enough  they  will  swell  a  little  in  the  basting,  and 
you  must  not  let  them  fall  again.  If  boiled,  as  the  larger 
fish  generally  are,  they  should  be  kept  just  simniering  over 
an  equal  fire,  in  which  way  half  an  hour  wiU^do  the  largest 
fish,  and  five  minutes  the  smallest. 

.  **  Dried  salmon,  though  a  large  fish,  does  not  require  more 
steeping  than  a  whiting ;  and  when  laid  on  the  gridiron  should 
be  moderately  peppered.  To  herring  and  to  all  kinds  d 
broiled  salt  fish,  sweet  oil  is  the  best  bastimr." 

The  above  is  from  Macdonald's  London  rouimLu  Cook,  8yo. 
1806,  p.  139.    . 

Qbs.  Dr.  Harte,  in  his  Essay  on  Diet,  1633,  fol.  p.  91,  pro^ 
tests,  '*  a  red  herring  doth  nourish  little,  and  is  hard  of  con- 


187 

coction,  but  very  good' to  make  a  eiip  of  good  drink  relish 
well,  and  may  be  well  called '  the  dnmkaid^i  delight.'  ** 

SmdUfGudgeoM^S^miiSj  or  oAernnaU  jFti^^^Wefl^.— (No.  173.) 

Clean  and  dry  them  thoroughly  in  a  cloth,  fry  them  plain, 
or  beat  an  egg  on  a  plate,  dip  Uiem  in  it,  and  than  in  very  fine 
bread-crumbs  that  haye  been  rubbed  through  a  sieve ;  the 
smaller  the  fish,  the  finer  should  be  the  bread-crumbs — biscuit 
powder  is  still  better;  fry  them  in  plenty  of  clean  lard  or 
drippings ;  as  soon  as  the  lard  boils  and  is  still,  put  in  the 
fish ;  when  they  are  delicately  browned,  they  are  done ;  this 
will  hardly  take  two  minutes.  Drain  them  on  a  hair-siere, 
placed  before  the  fire,  turning  them  till  quite  dry.  Obs.  Read 
No.  145. 

**  Smelts  are  allowed  to  be  caught  in  the  Thames,  on  the 
first  of  November,  and  continue  till  May.  The  Thames 
dmelts  are  the  best  and  sweetest,  for  two  reasons ;  they  are 
fresher  and  richer  than  any  other  you  can  get :  they  catch 
them  much  more  plentiful  and  larger  in  Lancashire  amd  Nor- 
folk, but  not  so  good :  a  great  many  are  brought  to  town 
from  Norfolk,  but  barely  come  good,  as  they  are  a  fish  which 
should  always  be  eaten  fresh ;  indeed,  all  nver  fish  should  be 
eaten  fresh,  chccept  salmon,  which,  unless  crimped,  eats  bet- 
ter the  second  or  third  day :  but  aU  Thames  fish,  particularly, 
should  be  eaten  very  fresh ;  no  fish  eats  so  bad  kept.*' 

Potted  Prawns^  ISirimps^  or  Cray^Jafc.— (No.  1.75.) 

Boil  them  in  water  with  plenty  of  salt  in  it.  When  you 
have  picked  them,  powder  them  with  a  little  beaten  mace, 
or  grated  nutmeg,  or  allspice,  and  pepper  and  salt ;  add  a 
little  cold  butter,  and  pound  all  well  together  in  a  marble 
mortar  till  of  the  consistence  of  paste.  Put  it  into  pots  co- 
vered with  clarified  butter,  and  cover  them  over  with  wetted 
bladder. 

Lo6j<er.*— (No.  17e.) 

Buy  these  alive ;  the  lobster  merchants  sometimes  keep 
them  till  they  are  starved,  before  they  boil  them ;  they  are 
then  watery,  have  not  half  their  flavour,  and  like  other 
persons  that  die  of  a  consumption,  haye  lost  the  calf  of  their 
legs, 

*  l40biieimave  in  swt  pleiity  and  perftctlon  in  Um  N«ir-Toiic  marieeii.   Tbey 
fl«  taken  in  Long  Ufand  Sound,  and  along  tlw  rocky  aliorai  of  Coonectkiit,  ]^ 
Mand,  and  Maawf hnwtta.  A. 


188 

Cboose  ihme  that  (as  an  old  cook  says,  are  ^heaty  and 
lively,**  and)  are  full  of  motioiiy  whi^  is  the  index  of  their 

fresmiess.  ^ 

Those  of  the  middle  size  are  the  best.  Never  take  them 
when  the  shell  is  incrusted,  which  is  a  sign  they  are  old. 
The  male  lobster  is  preferred  to  eat,  and  the  femade  (on 
aecomit  of  the  egge)  to  make  sauce  of.  The  hen  lobster 
is  distingfuished  by  having  a  broader  tail  than  the  male,  and 
less  claws. 

Set  on  a  pot,  with  water  salted  in  the  proportion  of  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sadt  to  a  quart  of  water ;  when  ^e  water  boils, 
5ut  it  in,  and  keep  it  boiling  briskly  from  half  an  hour  to  an 
our,  according  to  its  size ;  wipe  all  the  scum  off  it,  and  rub 
the  shell  with  a  very  little  butter  or  sweet  oil';  break  off  the 
great  claws,  crack  them  carefully  in  each  joint,  so  that  they 
may  not  be  shattered,  and  yet  come  to  pieces  easily;  cut 
the  tail  down  the  middle,  and  send  up  the  body  whole.  For 
sauce.  No.  285.    To  pot  lobster,  No.  178. 

\*  These  fish  come  in  about  April,  and  continue  plentiful 
till  the  oyster  season  returns ;  after  that  time  they  begin  to 
spawn,  and  seldom  open  solid. 

Cro6.--(No.  177.) 

The  above  observations  apply  to  crabs,  which  should 
neither  be  too  small  nor  too  large.  The  best  size  are  those 
which  measure  about  eisht  inches  across  the  shoulders. 

%*  Crabs  appear  and  disappear  about  the  same  time  as 
lobsters.  The  cromer  crabs  are  most  esteemed ;  but  num* 
bers  are  brought  from  the  Isle  of  Wight. 

Potted  Lok$Ur  or  CWi6.*— (No.  178). 

This  must  be  made  with  fine  hen  lobsters,  when  fuQ  of 
spawn:  boil  them  thoroughly  (No.  176);  when  cold,  pick 
out  all  the  solid  meat,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar :  it  is  usual 
to  add,  by  degrees,  (a  very  little)  finely-pounded  mace,  black 
or  Cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and,  while  pounding,  a  little  butter. 
When  the  whole  is  weU  mixed,  and  beat  to  the  consistence 
of  paste,  press  it  down  hard  in  a  preserving-pot,  pour  clari- 
fied butter  over  it,  and  cover  it  with  wetted  bladder. 

Ofrf.*— Some  put  lobster  without  pounding  it,  and  only  cut 
it  or  poll  it  into  such  pieces  as  if  it  was  prepared  for  sauce, 
and  mince  it  with  the  spawn  and  soft  parts  and  seasoning, 

*  Cratai  are  not  esteemed  as  a  delicacy  by  epieures  unl^ai  they  aie  aoft.  wtuen 
they  are  Med  whole.  In  July  and  Auguei  they  shed  their  eoat%  and  in  tlib  atate 
may  be  cooked  and  eaten  without  being  incommoded  with  their  shcrili.    A. 


FIBH.  189 

Uid  press  it  toge^or  as  close  as  possible ;  in  packing  it, 
j^e  the  coral  and  spawiit  &c.  in  layers,  so  that  it  mav  look 
regular  and  handsome  when  cut  out.  If  you  intend  it  as 
store  (see  N.B.  to  No.  384,  to  make  sauce  with),  this  is  the 
best  way  to  do  it ;  but  if  for  sandwiches,  &c.  the  first  is  the 
best,  and  will  keep  much  longer. 

Dressed  or  buttered  lobsters  and  crabs,  are  favourite  oma* 
mental  dish^  with  those  who  deck  their  table  merel>r  to 
please  the  eye.  Our  apology  for  not  giving  such  receipts 
will  be  fohnd  in  Ofr*.  to  No.  322. 

OYSTERS.*— (No.  181.) 

The  commoiit  Colchester  and  Feversham  casters  are 
brought  to  market  on  the  5th  of  August ;  the  Milton,  or,  as 
they  are  commonly  called,  the  melting  natives,|  do  not  come 
in  till  the  beginning  of  October,  continue  in  season  tifl  the 
12th  of  May,  and  approach  the  meridian  of  their  perfection 
about  Christmas. 

Some  piscivorous  gourmands  think  that  oysters  are  not 
best  when  quite  fresh  from  their  beds,  and  that  their  flavour 
is  too  brackish  and  harsh,  and  is  much  ameliorated  by  givuig 
them  a  feed.  * 

To  FEED^  oysters. — Cover  them  with  clean  water,  with  a 
pint  of  salt  to  about  two  gallons  ^nothing  else,  no  oatmeal, 
flour,  nor  any  other  trumpery) ;  this  will  cleanse  them  from 
the  mud  and  sand,  &c.  ot  the  bed ;  after  they  have  lain  in  it 
twelve  hours,  change  it  for  fresh  salt  and  water,  and  in  twelve 
hours  more  they  will  be  in  prime  order  for  the  mouth,  and 
remain  so  two  or  three  days :  at  the  time  of  high  water  you 
may  see  them  open  their  shells,  in  expectation  of  receiving 
their  usual  food.  This  process  of  feeding  oysters  is  only 
employed  when  a  great  many  come  up  together. 

The  real  Colchester,  or  Pyfleet  barrelled  oysters,  that  are 
packed  at  the  beds,  are  better  without  being  put  in  water : 

*  Oyster  sauce,  No.  278 ;  preserved  oysters,  No.  S80. 

t  ^oee  are  called  common  oysters,  wbicb  are  i^ckea  np  on  the  Frandb  coaft, 
and  laid  in  tlie  Colcbester  beds. 

These  are  never  so  fine  and  fat  as  the  natives,  and  seldom  recover  the  shock  their 
feelings  receive  from  being  transported  from  tlieir  native  place :  deUcate  little  cna- 
tures,  they  aae  aa  exquisite  in  their  own  taste  as  tli^  are  to  the  taate  ci  oHierB ! 

%  Oysteis  are  thus  called,  that  are  bom,  as  wdl  as  bred  and  fed,  in  this  country, 
and  are  mostly  spit  in  the  Bumham  and  Mersey  rivers :  they  do  not  come  to  their 
finest  condition  oil  they  are  near  four  years -old. 

%  WiL&  RABxaOA,  in  his  receipt  to  '<  broil  oysten,"  (pee  his  Cookery^  page  144,) 
directs^  that  while  they  are  undergoing  this  operation,  they  should  he  fed  with  white 
wine  and  grated  bread. 

In  Bom's  Worka,  4ta  1773,  vol.  U.  p.  4S0,  there  is  a  very  conoii»  chapter  on 
the  eating  of  oysten. 


190 

ihinr  mc9!0KtSfy  and  tightty  packed,  and  must  not  be  din* 
tvbed  till  wanted  for  table.  These,  in  moderate  veather, 
will  keep  good  for  a  week  or  ten  days. 

If  an  oyster  opens  his  mouth  in  the  bairel,  he  dies  imme* 
diately. 

To  preserve  the  lives  of  barrelled  oysters,  put  a  heavy 
weiffht  on  the  wooden  top  of  the  barrel,  which  is  to  be  placed 
on  me  surface  of  the  oysters.  This  is  to  be  effected  oy  re- 
moving the  first  hoop ;  the  staves  will  then  spread  and  stand 
erect,  making  a  wide  opening  for  the  head  of  the  barrel  to 
fall  down  closely  on  the  remaining  fish,  keeping  them  close 
together. 

MsM. — ^The  oysters  which  are  commonly  sold  as  barrelled 
oysters,  are  merely  the  smallest  natives,  selected  from  the 
stock,  and  put  into  the  tub  when  ordered;  and,  instead  of 
being  of  siqpehor  quality,  are  often  very  inferior.  To  im- 
mature animals  thera  is  the  same  objection  as  to  unripe 
veeetables. 

06s. — Common  people  are  indifferent  about  the  manner  of 
opening  oysters,  and  the  time  of  eating  them  after  they  are 
opened ;  nothing,  however,  is  more  important  in  the  enlight- 
ened eyes  of  the  experienced  oyster-eater. 

Those  who  wish  to  enjoy  this  delicious  restorative  in  its 
utmost  perfection,  must  eat  it  the  moment  it  is  opened,  with 
its  own  gravy  in  the  under  shell ;  if  not  eaten  while  abso- 
lutely alive,  its  flavour  and  spirit  are  lost. 

The  true  lover  of  an  oyster  will  have  some  regard  for  the 
feelings  of  his  little  favourite,  and  will  never  abandon  it  to 
the  mercy  of  a  bungling  operator,  but  will  open  it  himself, 
and  contrive  to  detach  the  fish  from  the  shell  so  dexterously, 
that  the  oyster  is  hardly  conscious  he  has  been  ejected  from 
his  lodging,  till  he  feels  the  t^eth  of  the  piscivorous  gour 
mand  tickling  him  to  death. 

N.B.  Fish  is  less  nutritions  than  flesh :  as  a  proof,  when 
the  trainer  of  NevmiarlDet  wishes  to  waste  a  jockey,  he  is 
not  allowed  meat,  nor  even  pudding,  if  fish  can  be  had.  "Qie 
white  kinds  of  fish,  turbots,  soles,  whiting,  cod,  haddock, 
flounders,  smelts,  &c.  are  less  nutritious  &an  the  oily,  fact' 
fish,  such  as  eels,  salmon,  herrings,  sprats,  &c. :  the  latter, 
however,  are  more  difficult  to  digest,  and  often  disturb  weak 
stomachs,  so  that  they  are  obliged  to  call  in  the  assistance 
pf  Cayenne,  Cognac,  &c. 

V  Shell-fish  have  long  held  a  high  rank  in  the  catalogue  of 

easily  digestible  and  speedily  restorative  foods ;  of  these  the 

^oyster  certainly  deserves  the  best  character,  but  we  think  it 

has  acquired  not  a  little  more  reputation  for  these  qualities 


'  FISH.  191 

than  it  deserves ;  a  well-dressed  diop*  or  stelft,  see  No.  94» 
wiU  invigorate  the  heart  in  a  much  higher  ntio ;  to  lecfKtfr 
the  animal  spirits,  and  support  strength,  there  is  nothing' 
equal  to  animal  food ;  when  kept  till  properly  tender,  none 
will  give  so  little  trouble  to  the  digestive  organs,  and  so 
much  substantial  excitement  to  the  constitution.  See  note 
under  No.  186*. 

See  Dr.  Walus  and  Mr.  Tyson's  Papers  on  men's  feeding 
oniieshyin  Phil.  Trans,  vol.  xxii.  p.  769  to  774;  and  Por- 
PHTRY  on  Abstinence  from  Animal  Food,  translated  by 
Thomas  Taylor,  8vo.  1893. 

We  could  easily  say  as  much  in  praise  of  mutton  as  liCr.- 
Ritson  has  against  it,  in  his  ^Estay  on  Abstinence  from 
Animal  Food^  as  a  Moral  Duty^  8vo.  London,  1802,  p.  109. 
He  says,  ^  The  Pagan  priests  were  the  first  eaters  of  animal 
food ;  it  corrupted  their  taste,  and  so  excited  them  to  glut- 
tony, that  when  they^had  eaten  the  same  thinff  repeatedly, 
their  luxurious  appetites  called  for  variety.  He  who  had 
devoured  the  sheep,  longed  to  masticate  the  shepherd ! ! !      i 

^  Nature  seems  to  have  provided  other  animals  for  the  food 
of  man,  from  the  astonishing  increase  of  those  which  in- 
stinct points  out  to  him  as  peculiarly  desirable  for  that  pur- 
pose. For  instance ;  so  quick  is  the  produce  of  pip^ons, 
that,  in  the  space  of  four  years,  14,760  may  come  m>m  a 
single  pair ;  and  in  the  like  period,  1,374,840  from  a  couple 
of  rabbits,  this  is  nothing  to  jhe  millions  of  eggs  in  the  milt 
of  a  codfish." 

Scolloped  OysUrs.^No.  183.)    A  good  way  to  warm  up  any 

cold  fish. 

Stew  the  oysters  slowly  in  their  own  liquor  for  two  or 
three  minutes,  take  them  out  with  a  spoon,  beard,  them,  and 
skim  the  liquor,  put  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan ;  when  it 
is  melted,  add  as  much  fine  bread-crumbs  as  will  dry  it  up, 
then  put  to  it  the  oyster  liquor,  and  give  it  a  boU  up,  put-  the 
*'  oysters  into  scollop-shells  that  you  have  buttered,  and 
strewed  with  bread-crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  oysters,  then  of 
bread-crumbs,  and  then  some  more  oysters ;  moisten  it  witili 
the  oyster  liquor,  cover  them  with  bread-crumbs,  put  about 

*  "  Animal  food  beins  composed  of  tbe  most  natriUoui  parts  of  the  fbod  on  wbkli 
the  animal  lived,  and  naving  already  been  digested  by  tbe  proper  organs  of  an 
animal,  requires  only  solution  and  mixture ;  whereas  Vegeudrie  fbod  most  be  con- 
verted  into  a  substance  of  an  animal  nature,  by  die  proper  action  of  our  own  viff* 
r^ra,  and  consequently  requires  more  labour  of  the  stomach,  and  other  digMtive 
organs."— BuRTOx  on  tlU  M'oh^aturtlst  page  SIS. 


i 


19f        '  maau 

jplf  a  doseif  litda  bits  of  batter  on  the  top  of  eac^  and 
fl^wn  them  in  a  Dutch  oven.  *• 

Obi*  Essence  of  anchovy,  catchup,  Cayenne,  mted  lemons 
peel,  mace,  and  other  spices,  &c.  are  added  by  those  who 
prefer  piquance  to  the  genuine  flavour  of  tiie  oyster. 

Cola  fish  may  be  re<3ressed  the  same  way. 

N.B.  Small  scoUop-shells,  or  saucers  that  hold  about  half 
a  doien  oysters,  are  the  most  convenient. 

SUwed  Qytteff .— '(No.  182*.) 

Large  oysters  will  do  for  stewing,  and  by  some  are  pre- 
ferred ;  but  we  love  the  plump,  juicy  natives.  Stew  a  couple 
of  dozen  of  these  in  their  own  liquor;  when  they  are  commg 
to  a  boil,  skim  well,  take  them  up  and  beard  them ;  strain  the 
liquor  through  a  tamis-sieve,  and  lay  the  oysters  on  a  dish. 
IPut  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan;  when  it  is  melted, 
put  to  it  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up,  the  liquor  of  the 
oysters,  and  three  table-spoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream,  and  a 
little  white  pepper  and  salt ;  to  this  some  cooks  add  a  little 
catchup,  or  finely-chopped  parsley,  grated  lemon-peel,  and 
juice ;  let  it  boil  up  for  a  couple  of  minutes,  till  it  is  smooth, 
then  take  it  off*  the  fire,  put  in  the  oysters,  and  let  them  get 
warm  (thev  must  not  themselves  be  boiled,  or  they  wiU  be- 
come hard) ;  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  hash-dish  with 
bread-sippets,  and  pour  your  oysters  and  sauce  into  it.  $ee 
Obs.  to  receipt  No.  278. 

Oysters  /rw<i.*— (No.  183.) 

The  largest  and  finest  oysters  are  to  be  chosen  for  this 
purpose ;  simmer  them  in  their  own  liquor  for  a  couple  of 
minutes,  take  them  out  and  lay^  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain, 
beard  them  and  then  flour  them,  egg  and  bread-crumb 
them,  put  them  into  boiling  fat,  and  fry  them  a  delicate 
brown. 

O69.  An  elegant  garnish  for  made  dishes,  stewed  rump- 
steaks,  boiled  or  fried  fish,  &c. ;  but  they  are  too  hard  and 
diy  to  be  eaten. 

*  ^ew-York  and  other  places  on  the  cwa-coast  of  the  United  Btates,  affi>rd  oytten 
in  great  plenty  and  perfection,  and  the  varloua  metfaoda  of  preparing  them  are  weU 
known.  A. 


r 


BK<yraSy  ob^tuis,  asp  soups.  t9/; 


Beef  Brotfe.*— (No,  185.) 

Wash  a  leg  or  shin  of  beef  very  clean,  crack  the  bone  in 
two  or  three  places  (this  you  shonld  destie  tiie  butcher  to  do 
for  you),  add  thereto  any  trunmings  you  have  of  meat,  game, 
or  poultry  (t.  ei  heads,  necks,  gizzards,  feet,  &o.),  and  cover 
them  wim^eold  water;  watch  and  stir  it  up  well  from  the 
bottom,  and  the  mcHnent  jt  begins  to  simmer,  skim  it  caie> 
fully ;  your  broth  must  be  perfectly  dear  and  limpid,  on  tihis 
depends  the  goodness  of  the  soups,  sauces,  and  gravies,  of 
which  it  is  the  basis :  then  add  some  cold  water  to  make  the 
remaining  scum  rise,  and  skim  it  again ;  when  the  scum  is 
done  rising,  and  the  surface  of  the  broth  is  quite  clear,  put  in 
one  moderate-sized  carrot,  a  head  of  celery,  two  turnips,  and 
two  onions,  it  should  not  have  any  taste  Of  sweet  heibs, 
Bpice,  or  garlic,  &c. ;  either  of  these  flavours  can  easily  be 
added  immediately  after,  if  desired,  by  Nos.  4d0, 421,  422. 
^c.  cover  it  do^e,  set  ^  it  by  the  side  or  the  fire,  and  let  it- 
simmer  very  gently  (so  as  not  to  waste  the  brothS  for  four  or 
five  hours,  or  moro,  according  to  the  weight  or  the  meat ; 
strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  and  dry  stone  pan,  and 
set  it  in  the  coldest  place  you  have. 

\   Ms.  This  is  the  foundation  for  all  sorts  of  soups  and 
•sauce,  brown  or  white. 

Stew  no  longer  than  the  meat  is  thoroughly  do^  to  eat, 
and  you  wiU  obtain  excellent  broth,  without  depriving  the 
meat  of  its  nutritious  succulence :  to  boil  it  to  rags*  as  ifi 
the  common  practice,  will  not  enrich  your  Inoths^  but  make 
them  thick  and  grouty. 

The  meat,t  when  gently  stewed  for  only  foitf  or  trj^  hours 

*  Id  diSnary  teclraicals,  is  malted  first  sTecx,  or  lonf  hrotb;  jii  the  Ffeoc^ 
kUchettj^^h  grand  b^uiUen.** 

t  A  dof  was  fed  od  tbe  richest  liroth,  yet  could  not  be  kept  aliie ;  vbilc  asotiier, 
which  had  only  tbe  meat  boiled  to  a  chipiand  water),  tbiove  yerjr  well.  Tliis 
a|»ws  tbe  foUy  of  aitempUng  to  noivuh  men  by  co»cmi9ifi^  aoi||«,  jellies, /Abc.-- 
SlKCLAiR,  Code  of  Htaitk,  p.  356. 

If  this  eKperimeat  be  aeeurate,  wliat  beeonies  pf  tbe4beoff«tlc  vtoioas  of  those 
who  have  written  aboqt  neurishiflg  broths,  lfcc.t  Tbe  best  test  of  the  restoratiKe 
quality  of  food,  is  a  small  quaigitT  of  it  satisfyimr  huaner,  the  strength  <of4he  pttlie 
ader  it,  and  the  length  of  tune  which  elapsea  before  appetite  returns  again.    Ac- 

R 


194  BROTHS)  OBAVIES9  AND«0I7I«. 

tSk  it  is  jiut  tender,  remains  abundantly  sapid  and  nouridiing,  - 
anA  will  afford  a  relishing  and  ivholesome  meal  for  half  a 
doien  people;  or  make  potted  beef  (No.  503) :  or  when  you 
have  strained  off  the  broth,  coVer  the  meat  again  with  water* 
and  let  it  go  on  boiling  for  four  hours  longer,  and  make 
what  some  cooks  call "  second  stock  ;^  it  will  produce  some 
rery  sood  gla^e,.  or  portaUe  soup ;  see  No.  252,  and  the 
Obs.  thereon. 

Beef  GrflTJy.*— (No.  186.) 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  stew'-pan  that  is  well  tinned  and 
quite  clean,  with  a  slice  of  good  ham,  or  lean  bacon,  four  or 
five  pounds  of  gravy  beef  cut  into  half-pound  pieces,  a  car- 
rot, an  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it,  and  a  head  of 
celery;  put  a  pint  of  broth  or  water  to  it,  cover  it  close,  and 
set  it  over  a  moderate  fire  till  the  water  is  reduced  to  as  little 
as  will  just  save  the  ingredients  from  burning ;  then  turh  it 
all  about,  and  let  it  brown  slightly  and  equally  all  over ;  then 
put  in  tlN-ee  quarts  of  boiling  water  ;t  when  it  boils  up,  skim 
it  carefully,  and  wipe  off  with  a  clean  cloth  what  sticks 
round  the  edge  and  mside  of  the  stew-pan,  that  your  gravy 
may  be  delicately  clean  and  clear.  Set  it  by  the  side  of  a 
fire,  where  it  will  stew  gently  (to  keep  it  clear,  and  that  it 
may  not  be  reduced  too  much)  for  about  four  hours :  if  it  has* 
not  boiled  too  fast,  there  should  be  twp  quarts  of  good  gravy ; ' 
strain  through  a  silk,  or  tamis-sieve ;  take  Very  particular 
care  to  skim  it  well,  and  set  it  in  a  cold  place.  * 

Strong  saTfoury  Gravy  (No.  188),  aliixs  ^^  Brown  Sat*ce^^  aliiu 

"  Grand  Espagnol.*' 

V 

Take  a -stew-pan  that  will  hold  four  quarts,  lay  a  slice  or 
two  ojf  ham  or  bacon  (about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick)  at 
the  bottom  (undressed  is  the  best),  and  two  pbunds  of  beef 
or  veal,  a  carrot,  a  large  onion  with  four  cloves  stuck  in  it, 
one  head  of  celery,  a  bundle  of  parsley,  lemon-th3n(ne,  and 
savoury,  about  as  big  round  as  your  little  finger,  when  tied, 
close,  a  few  leaves  of  sweet  basil  (one  bay-leaf,  and  an  es- 

cording  to  tbis  rule,  we  tive  our  rerikt  in  favour  of  No.  19  or  9i.    See  N.B.  to 
No,  181.  ^ 


dehmtf." 


t  A  great  deal  of  care  Is  to  be  taken  to  watch  the  time  of  putting  in  the  water  - 
if  it  Ifl  poured  in  too  soon,  the  anvy  will  not  have  itn  true  flavour  and  colour ;  and 
if  it  be  let  alooe  till  tbe  meat  fticlu  to  tlie  pan,  it  will  get  a  burnt  taste. 


.   BBOTHS,  ^UAVJMSt  AND  SOUP$.  *li^5 

chalot,  if  you  like  it)^  a  piece  of- lemon-peel,  and  a  ^apn 
corns  of  auspice;*  pour^on.this  half  a  pint  of  water,  cwrer 
it  close,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  on  a  slow  fire  for  half  an 
hour,  in  which  time  it  will  be  almost  dry ;  watch  it  very  care- 
fully, and  let  it  catch  a  nice  brown  colour;  turn  the  meat, 
&c.  let  it  brown  oh  all  sides ;  add  three  pints  of  boilincf 
water,t  and  boil  for  a  couple  of  hours.  It  is  now  rich 
gravy.    To  convert  it  into 

Cy^,  or  Ikidcened  Gravy.^^o,  189.) 

To  a  quart  of  gravy,  put  a  table-spoonful  of  thickening 
(No.  25't),  or  from  one  to  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  ac- 
cording to  the  thickness  you  wish  the  gpivy  to  be,  into  a 
basin,  with  a  ladleful  of  the  gravy ;  stir  it  quick ;  add  the 
rest  by  degrees,  tiU  it  is  all  well  mixed;  then  pour  it  back 
into  a  stew'imn,  and  leave  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  sim- 
mer for  half  an  hour  longer,  that  the  thickening,  may  tho- 
roughly incorporate  with  the  gravy,  the  stew-pan  being  only 
half  covered,  stirring  it  every  now  and  then ;  a  sort  of  scum 
will  gather  pn  the  top,  which  it  is  best  not  to  take  off  till  you 
are  ready  to  strain  it  through  a  tamis.| 
Take  care  it  is  neither  of  too  pale  nor  too  dark  a  colour ; 
.  if  it  is  not  thick  enough,  let  it  stew  longer,  till  it  is  reduced 
to  the  desired  thickness ;  or  add  a  bit  of  glaze,  or  portable 
soup  to  it,  see  No.  352 :  if  it  is  too  thick,  you  can  easily  thin 
it  with  a  spoonfui  or  two  of  warm  broth,  or  water.  When 
your  «auce  is  done,  stir  it  in  the  basin  you  put  it  into  once  or 
twice,  while  it  is  eooling. 

Feal  Broih.'^No.  191.) 

'    A  knuckle  of  veal  is  best ;  manage  it  as  directed  in  the 
receipt  for  beef  broth  (No.  185*),  only  take  care  not  to  let 
it  cat<ih  any  colour,  as  this  and  the  following  and  richer  pre- 
paration of  veal,  are  chiefly  used  for  white  soups,  sauces,  &c. 
To  make  white  sauce,  see  No.  364*. 

Tcoi  Oravy.— (No.  192.) 
About  three  pounds  of  the  nut  of  the  leg  of  veal,  cut  into* 

*  Truffles,  morells,  and  nrashrooms,  catohopv  and  wines,  Ax.  are  added  by  those 
wbo  are  for  the  extreme  of-  hamt  goiU. 

t  The  general  rule  is  to  pat  in  about  a  pint  of  water  to  a  pound  of  m/AL  if  K  only 
sf  hfimers  very  gently. 

t  A  tamis  is  a  worsted  cloth,  sold  at  the  oil  shops,  made  on  purpose  for  straining 
jauoes :  the  best  way.  for  using  it  is  for  two  people  to  twist  it  contrary  ways. .  Thiss 
*!9a  better  way  of  straining  sauce  than  through  a  sieve,  and  refinas  it  much  more 
completely. 


196  aBorjK8»  GtuLvtssy  akd  watnhh 

luKpoond  slices,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  hamin  nadl 
dice ;  proceed  as  directed  for  the  heef  gravy  (Np.  IB6)»  Imi 
watch  the  tioie  of  puttingin  the  water;  if  this  isjioiiied  in 
too  soon,  the  graTy  will  not  have  its  true  flavour,  if  k  be  let 
alone  till  ttie  meat  sticks  too  much  to  the  pan,  it  wifi  catdi 
loo  brown  a  ooloar. 

Enwdde  of  Feal,  or  Shin  or  Leg  of  Be^,  Sm^k-^No.  193.)  ; 

A  knuckle  of  veal  of  six  pounds  wei^t  will  make  a  large 
tureen  of  excellent  soup,  and  is  thus  easily  prepared :  cut 
half  a  pound  of  bacon  into  slices  about  half  an  mch  thick, 
lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  a  soup-kettle,  or  deep  stew-pan,  and 
on  this  place  the  knuckle  of  veal,  having  first  chopped  the 
bone  in  two  or  three  places ;  furnish  itwimtwo  carrots^  two 
turnips,  a  head  of  celery,  two  large  onions,  with  two  or  three 
cloves  stuck  in  one  of  them,  a  dozen  corns  of  blftck,  and  the 
same  of  Jamaica  pepper,  and  a  good  bundle  of  lemon-thym^ 
winter  savoury,  and  parsley.  Just  cover  the  meat  with  cold 
water,  and  set  it  over  a  quick  lire  till  it  boils ;  having  skimmed 
it  well,  remove  your  soup-kettle  to  the  side  of  the  fire ;  let  it 
stew  very  gently  till  it  is  quite  tender,  t.  e.  about  four  hours ; 
then  take  out  the  bacon  and  veal,  strain  the  soup,  and  set  it 
by  in  a  cool  place  till  you  want  it,  when  you  must  take  off 
the  fat  from  tne  surface  of  your  liquor,  and  decant  it  (keep- 
ing back  the  settlings  at  the  bottom)  into  a  clean  pan. 

if  you  like  a  thickened  soup,  put  thlee  table-spoonfuls  of 
the  fat  3rou  have  taken  off  the  soup  into  a  small  steW-pan, 
and  mix  it  with  four  table-spoonfuls  of  fiour,  pour  a  ladleful 
of  soup  to  it,  and  mix  it  with  the  rest  by  degrees,  and  boil  it 
up  till  it  is  smooth. 

Out  the  meat  and  gristle  of  the  knuckle  and  the  bacon ' 
into  mouthfuls,  and  put  them  into  the  soup,  and  kt  theip 
get  warm. 

Obi.  You  may  make  this  more  savoury  by  adding  catchup 
(No.  439),  &c.  Shin  of  beef  may  be  dressed  in  the  same 
way ;  see  Knuckle  of  Veal  stewed  with  Rice  (No.  623). 

'  Mutton  BraA^lSo.  194.) 

Take  two  pounds  of  scrag  of  mutt<m ;  to  take  the  blood 
out,  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  and  cover  it  with  cdd  water; 
when  the  water  becomes  milk-warm,  pour  it  off;  then  put  it 
in  four  or  five  pints  of  water,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a 
taUe«8po(mful  of  best  grits,  and  an  onion;  set  it  on  a  slow 
fircy  and  when  you  have  taken  all  the  scum  off,  put  in  two  or 


UtOTBBy  0BAVIE8,  AND  BOVFS,  197 

three  taniips;iel  it  giininer  reiy  slowly  for  two  hoan,  «ad 
strain  it  through  a  clean  sieve. 

This  usual  method  of  makings  mutton  broth  with  the 
scn^/is  by  no  means  the  most  economical  method  of  ob- 
taining, it  ;  for  which  see  Nos.  490  and  564. 

Obs.  You  may  thicken  broth  by  boiling  with  it  a  little  oat- 
meal, rice,  Scotch  or  pearl  barley ;  when  you  make  it  for  k 
sick  person,  read  the  Obi.  on  Broths,.  &c.  in  the  last  page  of 
the  7th  chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery,  and  No.  564. 

Modt  Mutton  Broik^  wkhoui  Meaiy  in^five  miniUe$.-^No,  196.) 

Boil  a  few  leaves  of  parsley  with  two  tea^spoonfuls  of 
musluroom  catchup,  in  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  very  thin 
gruel*  (No.  672).    Season  with  a  little  salt. 

Obi.  TbiB  is  improved  by  a  few  drops  of  eschalot  wine 
<No.  408),  and  the  same  of  essence  of  sweet  herbs  (No.  419). 
See  also  Portable  Soup  (No.  252). 

Tks  queen^i  Morning  "^BomUon  de  &m<^,"— (No.  196.) 

Sir  Kenelm  Digby,  in  his  **Cloiet  of  Cookery^^  p.  149, 
London,  1669,  informs  us,  was  made  with  ^  a  brawny  hen,  or 
young  cock,  a  handful  of  parsley,  one  sprig  of  thyme,  thiee 
of  spearmint,  a  little  balm,  half  a  great  onion,  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  clove,  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover 
them ;  and  this  boile4  to  less  than  a  pint  for  one  good  por- 
ringerful.'* 

Ox-keel  /e%.^(No.  19&) 

Slit  tl^m  ill  two,  and  take  away  the  fat  between  the  claws. 
The  propprtion  of  water  to  each  heel  |s  about  a  quart :  let  it 
simmer  gently  for  eight  hours  (keeping  it  clean  dkimmed) ; 
it  will  n^e  a  pint  and  a  half  of  strong  jeUy,  which  is  fre- 
quently used  to  make  calves*  feet  jelly  (No.  481),  or  to  add  to 
mock  turtle  and  other  soups.  See  No.  240*.  This  ielly 
evaporated,  as  directed  in  No.  252,  will  give  about  three 
ounces  and  a  half  of  strong  glaase.  An  unboiled  heel  costs 
one  shilling  and  threepence:  so  this  glase,  which  is  veiy 
inferior  in  flavour  to  No.  252,  is  quite  as  expenmve  as  that  is/ 

N.B.  To  dress  the  heels,  see  No.  18. 

Obi*  Get  a  heel  that  ha«  only  been  scalded*  not  one  of 

*  By  tliiiiiMllii)d,itigi«i4,8Bif«eniotwcookl6iif4eoei;rod»iaiieftii^ 
were  all  fimd  of  weak  mutton  broth.    Mushrooin  gmvf ,  cv  ealemq>  (Na  43B), 
approaches  the  aatare  and  flavour  of  .meat  gravy,  more  than  any  vegetable  luiee, 
and  is  the  best  aubeiHate  for  it  in  maigre  soups  and  extempore  saucea.  that  eoUiiary 
cbelnlstry  has  yet  produced. 

R2 


'  198  BK0TH8,   ORAVXX8  AND  SOVM. 

those  nsaally  fK>ld  at  the  tripe*shop6,  which  have  been  boiled 
tiQ  almost  aJl  the  gelatine  is  extracted. 

CUar  Gravy  jSm^*.— :(No.  200.) 

Cut  half  a  pound  of  ham  into  slices,  and  lay  them  at  the 
bottom  of  a  large  stew-pan  or  stock-pot,  with  two  or  three 
pounds  of  lean  beef,  and  as  much  veal ;  break  the  bones,  and 
(ay  them  on  the  meat ;  take  off  the  outer  skin  of  two  large 
onions  and  two  turnips ;  wash,  clean,  and  cut  into  pieces  a 
couple  oflarge  carrots,  and  two  heads  of  celery;  and  put  in 
three  cloves  and  a  lar^re  blade  of  mace.  Cover  the  stew-pan 
close,  and  set  it  over  a  smart  fire.  When  the  meat  begins  to 
stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan,  turn  it ;  and  when  there 
is  a  nice  brown  glaze  at  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan,  cover 
the  meat  with  hot  water :  watch  it,  and  when  it  is  coming  to 
boil  put  in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water ;  take  off  the  scum ;  then 
put  m  half  a  pint  more  cold  water,  and  skim  it  again,  and 
continue  to  do  so  till  no  more  scum  rises.  Now  set  it  on  one 
side  of  the  fire  to  boil  gently  for  about  four  hours ;  strain  it 
through  a  clean  tamis  or  napkin  (do  not  squeeze  it,  or  the 
soup  will  be  thick)  into  a  clean  stone  pan ;  let  it  remain  till 
it  is  cold,  and  then  remove  all  the  fat.  When  you  decant  it, 
be  careful  not  to  disturb  tlie  settlings  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 

The  broth  should  be  of  a  fine  amber  colour,  and  as  clear  as 
rock  water*  If  it  is  not  quite  so  bright  as  you  wish  it,  put  it 
into  a  stew-pan;  break  two  whites  and  shells  of  eggs  into  a 
basin;  beat  them  well  together;  put  them  into  the  soup:  set 
it  on  a  quick  fire,  and  stir  it  with  a  whtsk  till  it  boili^ ;  then 
set  it  on  one  side  of  the  fire  to  settle  for  ten  minutes ;  run  it 
through  a  fine  napkin  into  a  basin,  and  it  is  ready. 

However,  if  your  broth  is  carefully  skimmed,  &c.  accorjd- 
ing  to  the  directions  above  given,  it  will  be  clear  enough 
without  clarifying ;  which  process  impairs  the  flavour  of  it  in 
a  higher  proportion  than  itimproves  its  appearanpe. 

065. — This  is  the  basis  of  almost  all  gravy  soups,  which 
are  called  by  the  name  of  the  vegetables  that  are  put 
into  them. 

Carrots,  turnips,  onions,  celery,  and  a  few  leaves  of  cher^ 
vil,  make  what  is  called  spring  soup,  or  soup  santi^;  to 
this  a  pint  of  green  pease,  or  asparagus  pease,  or  French 
beans  cut  into  pieces,  or  a  cabbage  lettuce,  are  an  im- 
provement. 

With  rice  or  Scotch  barley,  with  macaroni  or  vermicelli, 
or  celery  cut  into  lengths,  it  will  be  the  soup  usually  calleti 
by  those  names. 


BROTIM,  GBAVUESy  AKD  SOUfS.  199 

Or  turnips  scooped  round,  or  young  onions^  will  give  you 
a  clear  turnip  or  onion  soup ;  and  all  these  vegetables  piuiEed 
together,  soup  eiuEssi. 

The  gravy  for  all  these  soups  may  be  produced  exUmpore 
with  No.  252. 

The  roots  and  vegetables  you  use  must  be  boiled  first,  or 
they  will  iippregnate  the  soup  with  too  strong  a  flavour. 

The  seasoning  for  all  these  soups  is  the  same,  viz.  salt 
and  a  very  little  Cayenne  pepper. 

N.B.  To  make  excellent  vegetable  gravy  soup  for  4id.  a 
quart,  see  No.  224.  « 

Sc<Adi  Barky  Broth; — a  good,  and  substantial  dinner  ibr 
iivepence  per  head. — (No.  204.) 

Wash  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  Scotch  barley  in  a 
little  cold  water ;  put  it  in  a  soup-pot  with  a  shin  or  leg  of 
beef,  of  about  ten  pounds  weight,  sawed  into  four  pieces 
(tell  the  butcher  to  do  this  for  you);  cover  it  well  with  cold 
water;  set  it  on  the  fire :  when  it  boils  skim  it  very  clean, 
and  put  in  two  onions  of  about  three  ounces 'weight  each; 
set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  very  gently  about  two 
hours ;  then  skim  all  the  fat  clean  off,  and  put  in  two  heads 
of  celery,  and  a  large  turnip  cut  into  small  squares ;  season 
it  with  salt,  and  let  it  boil  an  hour  and  a  half  longer,  and  it 
is  ready:  take  out  the  meat  (carefully  with  a  shce,  and 
cover  it  up,  and  set  it  by  the  nre  to  keep  warm),  and  skim 
the  brodi  well  before  you  put  it  in  the  tureen* 

«.  i. 

Shin  of  beef  of  lOIbB 2  0 

i|  pound  of  barley 0  4| 

3  onions, of  about  3 oz.wdgbt  each...    0  b{ 

Celery 0  1 

Largetumip 0  1 

9   7 

Thus  you  get  four  quarts  of  good  soup  at  8e?«  per  quart, 
besides  another  quart  to  make  sauce  for  the  meat,  in  ^e 
following  manner : 

Put  a  quart  of  the  soup  into  a  basin;  put  about  an 
ounce  of  flour  into  a  stew-pan,  and  pour  the  broth  to  it 
by  degrees,  stirring  it  well  together;  set  it  on  the  fire,  and 
stir  it  till  it  boils;  then  (some  put  in  a  glass  of  port 
wine,  or  mushroom  catchup.  No.  439)  let  it  boil  up,  and  it  is 
ready. 

Put  the  meat  in  a  ragout  dish,  and  strain  the  sauce  through 


109  aioTRSy  oravubs,  aki)  8oti[»r. 

a  BieTe  ov^r  the  meat ;  you  may  tmt  to  it  eeiiie  eat>eM,  or 
jtiineed  gherkins  or  walnuts^  &c. 

If  the  beef  has  been  stewed  with  pro^t  care  in  a  yery 
gantle  manner^  and  be  taken  up  at  ^tbe  critical  moment  when 
it  is  just  tender,**  you  will  obtain  an  excellent  and  savour^ 
meal  for  ei|fat  people  for  fivepence  $  t.  «•  for  only  the  cost  of 
the  glass  of  port  wine. 

If  yon  use  Teal,  cover  the  meat  with  No.  S64-^. 

Obi. — ^This  is  a  most  fniea),  agreeable,  and  nutritive 
meal ;  it  yrfiil  neither  lighten  the  purse,  nor  lie  heavy  on  the 
stomach,  and  will  furnish  a  plentiful  and  pleasant  soup  and 
meat  for  eight  persons.  So  you  may  give  a  good  dinner  for 
5d.  per  head ! !  1    See  also  Nos.  329  aftd  339. 

N.B.  If  you  will  draw  your  purser-strings  a  little  wider, 
and  allow  id.  per  mouth  more,  prepare  a  pint  of  young 
onions  as  directed  in  No.  396,  and  garnish  the  disn  with 
them,  or  some  carrots  or  turnips  cut  into  squares ;  and  for 
6d.  per  head  i^u  will  have  as  good  a  ragout  as  "/e  Cuidnitt 
im^rud  de  JrVanee"  can  give  you  for  as  many  shillings. 
Bead  06s.  to  No.  493. 

Yen  may  vary  the  flavour  by  adding  a  little  curry  powder 
(NOk  456))  ragout  (No.  457,  &c.)»  or  any  of  the  store  sauces 
and  flavouring  essences  between  Nos.  396  and  463 ;  you  may 
garnish  the  dish  with  split  pickled  mangoes^  walnuts,  gher* 
Sins,  Onions,  &c.    See  Wow  wow  Sauce,  No.  338. 

If  it  is  made  the  evening  before  the  soup  is  wanted, 
and  sufiered  to  stand  till  it  is  cold,  much  fat*  may  be 
removed  from  the  surface  of  the  soup,  which  is,  when 
clarified  (No.  83),  useful  for  all  the  purposes  that  drippings 
are  applied  to. 

&o«:A  &«/>».— (No.  306.) 

The  three  following  receipts  are  the  contribution  of  a 
friendat  Edinburgh. 

Take  the  best  end  of  a  neck  or  loin  of  mutton ;  cut  it  into 
neat  chops ;  cut  four  carrots,  ^and  as  many  turnips  into 
^ced ;  put  on  four  quarts  of  water,  with  half  the  carrots 
and  turnips,  and  a  whole  one  of  each,  with  a  pound  of  dried 
greeil  pease,  which  must  be  put  to  soa^  the  ni^t  before ; 
let  it  boil  two  hours,  then  take  out  the  whole  carrot  and  tur- 

*  Bee  ^L*Art  de  CHinnier,*^  par  A.  BeauvUKer,  Pari8,"1814,  p.  6&  "t  have 
Jearned  by  experienoe,  that  of  all  the  fatt  that  are  unM  for  frying,  the  pot  top  wbicK 
is  taken  troia  the  nirface  of  the  broth  and  stock- pot  ia  by  far  the  hest.'*^ 


BBOTXIB,  6KAVIES,  AIVD  SOVn.  tOl 

nn»;  braise  and  Tetnm^ein;  put  in  the  meat,  and  the  rest 
oT  tiie  carrot  and  turnip^  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  boil 
iAtrwfy  thvee-quarters  of  an  horn*;  a  sno^  time  before  serringy 
add  an  onion  cat  small  and  a  head  of  celery. 

Cbciby-Zedby  Sot^. 

Take  a  scrag  of  mutton,  or  shank  of  veal,  three  Quarts  of 
water  (or  liquor  in  which  meat  has  been  b(Mied),^and  a  good- 
sized  fowl,  with  two  or  three  leeks  cut  in  pieces  about  an 
inch  long,  pepper  and  salt ;  boil  slowlf  about  an  hour :  then 
put  in  as  many  more  leeks,  and  give  it  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  longer:  this  is  very  good,  made  of  good  beef-Stook« 
.  and  leeks  put  in  at  twice. 

Larnb  Stove,  or  Lamb  Skew. 

Take  a  Iambus  head  and  lights ;  open  the  jaws  of  the  head, 
and  wash  them  thoroughly;  put  them  in  a  pot  with  some 
beef-stock,  made  with  tlu^e  quarts  of  water,  and  two  pounds 
of  shin  of  beef,  strained ;  boil  veiy  slowly  for  an  hour;  wash 
and  string  two  or  three  good  handfuls  of  spinach  (or 
spinage);  put  it  in  twenty  minutes  before  serving;  add  a 
little  parsley,  and  one  or  two  onions,  a  short  time  before  it 
comes  off  the  fire ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve 
all  together  in  a  tureen. 

Scotch  ^ro«e.— (No.  205*.) 

'^  This  favourite  Scotch  dish  is  generally  made  with  the 
liquor  meat  has  been  boiled  in. 

*^  Put  half  a  pint  of  oatmeal  into  a  porringer  with  a  little 
salt,  if  there  be  not  enough  in  the  broth,  of  which  add  as 
much  as  will  mix  it  to  the  consistence  of  hasty-pudding.  Or 
a  htUe  thicker ;  lastly,  take  a  litUe  Of  the  fat  that  swims  on 
the  broth,  and  put  it  on  the  crowdie,  and  eat  it  in  the  same 
way  as  hasty-pudding.*' 

CMa.-— This  Scotsman's  dish  is  easily  pre(>ared  at  veiv  little 
expense,  and  is  pleasant-tasted  and  nutritious.  To  oresS  a 
haggies,  see  No»  488*,  and  Minced  Collops,  following  it. 

N.B.  For  various  methods  of  making  and  flavouring  oai- 
pieal  gruel,  see  No.  572. 

»  r 

Carrot  Snip.— (No.  212.) 

Scrape  and  wash  half  a  dozen  large  carrots ;  peel  off  the 
red  outside  (which  is  the  only  part  used  for  this  soi:^);  pat 
it  into  a  gallon  stew-pan,  with  one  head  of  celery,  and  an 


i02.  BROTHSt  QRAVlEBf  AND  SOUPfif. 

onion,  cut  into  thin  pieces ;  take  two  quarts  of  beef,  veal,  or 
mutton  broth,  or  if  you  have  any  cold  roast-beef  bones  (or 
liquor,  in  which  mutton  or  beef  has  been  boiled),  you  may 
make  verv  good  broth  for  this  soup :  when  you  have  put  the 
broth  to  tne  roots,  cover  the  stew-pan  close,  and  set  it  on  u 
slow  stove  for  two  hours  and  a  half,  when  the  carrots  will 
be  soft  enouffh  (some  cooks  put  in  a  tea-cupful  of  bread- 
crumbs) ;  boil  for  two  or  three  minutes ;  rub  it  through  a 
tamis,  or  hair-sieve«  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  add  as  much 
broth  as  will  make  it  a  proper  thickness,  i.  e.  almost  as  thick 
as  pease  soup :  put  it  mto  a  clean  stew-pan ;  make  it  hot ; 
season  it  with  a  little  salt,  and  send  it  up  with  some  toasted 
bread,  cut  into  pieces  half  an  inch  square.  Some  put  it  into 
the  soup ;  but  the  best  way  is  to  send  it  up  on  a  plate,  as  a 
side-disL 

O65.  This  is  neither  expensive  nor  troublesome  to  pre- 
pare. In  the  kitchens  of  some  opulent  epicures,  to  make  this 
soup  make  a  little  stronger  impression  on  the  gustatory 
organs  of  *'  grands  gourmands,'*  the  celery  and  onions  are 
sliced,  and  fried  in  butter  of  a  light  brown,  the  soup  is  poured 
into  the  stew-pan  to  them,  and  ^1  is  boiled  up  together.  But 
this  must  be  done  very  carefully  with  butter,  or  very  nicely 
clarified  fat;  and  the  ^' grand  cuisinier''  adds  spices,  &c. 
"  ad  libitum^ 

Turnip  and  Parsnip  <Sbi«/?5,— -(No.  213.) 
Are  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  carrot  soup  (No.  312.) 

Celery  Soup. — (No.  214.) 

Split  half  a  dozen  heads  of  celery  into  slips  about  two 
inches  long ;  wash  them  well ;  lay  them  on  a  hair-sieve  to 
drain,  and  put  them  into  three  quarts  of  No.  200  in  a  gallon 
soup-pot ;  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  stew  yery  gently 
till  the  celery  is  tender  (this  will  take  about  an  hour).  If  any 
scum  rises,  take  it  off;  season  with  a  little  salt. 

Obs.  When  celery  cannot  be  procured,  half  a  drachm  of 
the  seed,  pounded  fine,  which  may  be  considered  as  the 
essence  of  celery  (costs  only  one-third  of  a  farthing,  and  can 
be  had  at  any  season),  put  m  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  the 
soup  is  done,  and  a  little  sugar,  will  give  as  much  flavour  to 
half  a  gallon  of  soup  as  two  heads  of  celery  weighing  seven 
ounces,  and  costing  2rf. ;  or  add  a  little  essence  of  celery. 
No.  409. 


BROTBg,   GSAVXESy    AND  SOUPS.  203 

Grten  Pease  &tfp.--(No.  216.) 

• 

A  peck  of  pease  will  make  you  a  good  tureen  of  soup.  In 
shelling  them,  put  the  old  ones  in  one  basin,  and  the  young 
ones  in  another,  and  keep  out  a  pint  of  them,  and  boil  them 
separately  to  put  into  your  soup  when  it  is  finished :  put  a 
large  saucepan  on  the  m'e  half  full  of  water ;  when  it  boils, 
put  the  pease  in,  with  a  handful  of  salt ;  let  them  boil  till 
they  are  done  enough,  i.  e.  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes, 
according  to  their  a^e  and  size ;  then  drain  them  m  a  colan- 
der, and  put  them  mto  a  clean  gallon  stew-pan,  and  three 
quarts  of  plain  veal  or  mutton  broth  (drawn  from  meat  with- 
out any  spices  or  herbs,  &c.  which  would  overpower  the 
flavour  of  the  soup) ;  cover  the  stew-pan  close,  and  set  it 
over  a  slow  fire  to  stew  gently  for  an  hour;  add  a  tea-cupful 
of  bread-crumbs,  and  then  rub  it  through  a  tamis  into  anouier 
stew-pan ;  stir  it  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  if  it  is  too  thick, 
add  a  little  more  broth :  have  ready  boiled  as  for  eating,  a 
pint  of  young  pease,  and  put  them  into  the  soup ;  season  with 
a  little  salt  and  sugar. 

N.B.  Some  cooks,  while  this  soup  is  going  on,  slice  a 
couple  of  cucumbers  (as  you  would  for  eating) ;  take  out  the 
seeds ;  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain,  and  then  flour  them,  and 
fry  them  a  light  brown  in  a  little  butter;  put  them  into  the 
soup  the  last  thing  before  it  goes  to  table. 

Obs.  If  the  soup  is  not  green  enough,  pound  a  handful  of 
pea-hulls  or  spinage,  and  squeeze  the  juice  through  a  cloth 
mto  the  soup:  some  leaves  of  mint  may  be  added,  if  approved. 

Plain  green  Pease  Soup  wiihout  Meat. — (No.  2170 

Take  a  quart  of  green  pease  (keep  out  half  a  pint  of  the 
youngest ;  boil  them  separately,  and  put  them  in  the  soup 
when  it  is  finished) ;  put  them  on  in  boiling  water ;  boil  them 
tender,  and  then  pour  ofi"  the  water,  and  set  it  by  to  make  the 
soup  with  .<>  put  the  pease  into  a  mortar,  and  pound  them  to  a 
mash ;  then  put  them  into  t*wo  quarts  of  the  water  you  boiled 
the  pease  in;  stir  all  well  together;  let  it  boil  up  for  about 
tye  minutes,  and  then  rub  it  through  a  hair-sieve  or  tamis. 
If  the  pease  are  good,  it  will  be  as  mick  and  fine  a  vegetable 
soup  as  need  be  sent  to  table. 

Pease  iSi>wp.— (No.  218.) 
The  common  way  of  making  pease  soup*  is — ^to  a  quart 

*  To  make  pease  pottage,  double  the  quantity.  Those  who  often  make  pease 
soup  tbottld  have  a  mill,  and  grind  the  pease  just  before  they  dreM  them ;  a  less 
quantity  will  tuil^ce,  and  the  soup  will  be  much  sooner  made.. 


204  BRarn%  »ravie9,  j^kd  aotrrs. 

of  split  i^ease  put  three  qsaxis  t>f  coM  t^  Water,  not  more^ 
(or  It  wifl  be  what  "  Jack  llos-bif  **  calls  *♦  soiip  tnatoe,'*) 
notwithstanding  Mother  Olasse  orders  a  gallon  (and  her 
lftdy0hip*8  directions  have  heeti  eopfed  by  almost  evei^ 
cookery-book  maker  who  has  strtmg  receipts  together  sitice;,. 
with  hsdf  a  pound  of  bacon  (not  very  faft),  ot  iroast-beet  bones* 
or  four  anenoyies :  or,  instead  of  the  watet,  three  ^i^akts  of 
the  liquor  in  which  beef,  mutton,  pork,  or  poultry  has  beeti 
boiled,  tastinff  it  first,  to  make  sure  it  is  not  too  salt.* 

Washlwo  heads  of  celety  ;t  cut  it,  and  put  it  in,  with  two 
onions  peeled,  and  a  sprig  of  savouty,  or  sweet  marjoram,  or 
lemon-thyme;  set  it  oh  the  triVet,  and  let  it  simmer  very 
gently  over^a  slow  fire,  stirring  it  eveiy  quarter  of  an  hour 
(to  keep  the  pease  from  sticking  to,  and  burning  at,  the  hot* 
torn  of  the  soup-pot)  till  the  pease  are  tender,  wluch  will  be  in 
about  three  hours.  Some  cooks  now  slice  a  head  of  celery, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  onions,  and  fry  them  in  a  little  butter^ 
and  put  tiiem  into  the  soup  till  they  are  lightly  browned; 
then  work  the  whole  through  a  coarse  hair-sieve,  and  then 
through  a  fine  sieve,  or  (what  is  better)  through  a  tamis,  with 
the  back  of  a  woo<)en  spoon :  put  it  into  a  clean  stew-pam. 
with  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  ground  black  pepper  j;  let  it  odl 
again  for  ten  minutes,  and  if  any  fat  aritses,  skim  it  off. 

9end  up  on  a  plate,  toasted  bread  cut  into  little  pieces  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  square,  or  cut  a  slice  of  bread  (that  has 
been  baked  two  days)  into  dice,  not  more  than  halt  an  inch 
square ;  put  half  a  pound  of  perfectly  clean  drippings  or  lard 
into  an  iron  frying-pan;  when  it  is  not,  fry  the  bread;  take 
care  and  turn  it  about  with  a  slice,  or  by  shsJcing  of  the  pan 
as  it  is  frjring,  that  it  may  be  on  each  sfde  of  a  delicate  light 
brown,  (No.  319 ;)  tak«  it  up  with  a  fish»slice»  and  lay  it  on  a 
sheet  of  paper  to  drain  the  fat :  be  careful  that  this  is  done 
nicely :  send  these  up  in  one  side-dish,  and  dried  and  pow" 
de^ed  mint  or  savouiy,  ot  sweet  maijoramv  &c«  in  another. 

Those  who  are  for  a  double  relish^  and  are  true  lovers  tsC 
*'  haiU  go^^'*  may  have  some  bacon  cut  into  small  squares 
like  the  bread,  and  fried  till  it  is  tnrisp,  Or  some  Uttte  lumps 
of  boiled  pickled  pork ;  or  put  cucumber  fvied  into  tins  soi^, 
as  you  have  directions  in  No.  31^ 

*  If  the  liquor  is  very  salt,  the  pease  will  never  boil  tender.  Ther^forCf  wheft 
you  make  pease  sdap°witri  fbe  Hiiaor  te  whiek  HUlnd  pork  or  beef  has  been  boiled. 
de  up  the  pease  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  tbfem  first  for  an  hour  in  soft  iirater. 

t  Haifa  drachm  of  «el«rar-see«l,  poonded^ne.  amd  pat  into  tha-seop  a  qaafUAr  of 
aft  bo«ir  Mfbre  it  \i  finislied,  «ir{n  flavour  three  quarts. 

%  Some  put  in  dried  mint  rubbed  to  fine  pow4e¥{  but  asvvery  bodjr  does  ndt  Hkc 
minr,  it  is  best  to  send  it  up  on  a  plate.  See  pease  powder,  No.  45^  eaenee  tif 
relery,  No.  409,  and  Nob.  457  and  459. 


Obs.  Th^  most  econfHnioal  method  of  fnifcing  {MftMs  fOiip, 
is  to  save  the  hones  of  a  joint  of  roast  bee(  and  put  them  into 
the  liquor  in  which  mutton,  or  beef,  or  poric^or  poultry,  hw 
been  Boiled,  aad  proceed  as  in  thie  above  receipt.  A  h<m,  or 
shank-bone  of  ham,  a  ham-bone,  the  root  of  a  toiqfue,  ora 
red  or  pickled  herring,  are  fatourite  additions  with  some 
oooks  (  <|thers  tend  up  rice  or  vermicelli  with  pease  soup.* 

N.fi.  To  make  pease  soup  extempore,  see  No.  5S5. 
'  If  you  wish  to  make  soup  the  same  day  you  boil  meat  or 
poultry,  prepare  the  pease  the  same  as  for  pease  pudding 
(No.  555),  to  which  you  may  add  an  onion  and  a  head  of 
Celery,  when  you  rub  the  pease  through  the  sieve  $  mstead 
of  putting  eg[gs  and  butter,  add  some  of  the  liquor  fkom  the 
pot  to  m^e  it  a  proper  thickness ;  put  it  <m  to  boil  for  five 
minutes,  and  it  is  ready. 

Obs.  This  latter  is  by  far  the  easiest  and  the  best  way  of 
making  pease  soup.  , 

Pease  soup  may  be  made  savoury  and  agreeaUe  to  the 
palate,  without  any  meat,  by  incorporating  two  ounces  of 
fresh  and  nicely-claiified  beef,  mutton,  or  pcnk  drippings  (see 
No.  d3),  with  two  ounces  of  oatmeal,  and  mixing  this  well 
into  the  g^on  of  soup,  made  as  above  directed :  see  also 
No.  229. 

Ptt<m  Sot^  and  pickled  Pork.— (No,  SSO.) 

K  couple  of  pounds  of  the  belly  part  of  pickled  poik  will 
make  very  good  broth  for  pease  soup,  if  the  pork  be  not  too 
salt ;  if  it  has  been  in  salt  more  than  two  days,  it  must  be  laid 
in  water  the  night  before  it  is  used. 

Put  on  the  ingredients  mentioned  in  No.  918^  in  three 
quarts  of  water ;  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then  put  in  the 
pork,  and  boil  tety  gently  till  it  is  done  enough  to  eat;  this 
will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  two  hours  longer,  ac» 
cording  to  its  thickness ;  when  done,  wash  the  pork  clean  in 
hot  water,  send  it  up  in  a  dish,  or  cut  it  into  moothfids,  and 
put  it  into  the  soup  in  the  tureen,  with  the  accompaniments 
ordered  in  No.  918. 

*  My  itUXy  liredece*or.  Dr. ntncna  (see  OkImm,  page  W),  sayfi^  "If  a  ptajp&t 
quantity  of  cunry-powder  (No.  455)  be  added  to  pease  soup,  a  good  soap  mifbt  be 
made,  under  the  title  of  curry  pea*e  ctrnv.  HeiiogabahiB  ofined  rewards  for  Ibie 
l^fBtoYery  of  a  new  dish,  and  tbc  Brttisb  Paiiiaiiij»thave  giten  notoriety  to  Imrea- 
tiotfis  of  mufch  lesa  importance  than  ««urry  pease  aoup.'  '* 

N,B.  Celeiy,  or  canrois,  or  tamips,  shreoded,  or  cut  in  MiiiBreB  (or  Seoceh  tartef , 
•-ib  the  latter  case  the  soup  moat  be  railier  thiaiier),  ar  out  taito  Mts  aboiit  aa  taiii 
|0M$,  and  boiled  aaparatt^,  aad  thrown  into  tlie  lureen  when  fbe  amip  is  going  lo 
table,  wul  giw  another  agreeaUe  variety,  and  may  be  caUed  tAery  omI  p«a»4  «o«j» 
BeadOft9.toNo.914 

s 


206  .  vmofnaSf  omAvns,  akb  joun. 

.  Ob».  The  meat  being  boiled  no  longer  than  to  be  done 
enough  to  be  eaten,  you  get  excellent  soup,  williout  any  ex- 
pense of  meat  destroyed. 

**  In  Canada,  the  inhabitants  live  three-fourths  of  the  year 
on  pease  soup,  prepared  with  salt  pork,  which  is  boilea  till 
the  fat  is  entirely  dissolved  among  the  soup,  giving  it  a  rich 
flavour.'' — The  Hon.  J.  Cochranb's  Seaman's  Gtude^  8vo. 
1797,  p.  31. 

Plain  Peaw  Soup.— <No.  221.) 

To  a  quart  of  split  pease,  and  two  heads  of  celery,  (and 
most  cooks  would  put  a  large  onion,)  put  three  quarts  of 
broth  or  soft  water ;  let  them  simmer  gently  on  a  trivet  over 
a  slow  fire  for  three  hours,  stirring  up  every  quarter  of  an 
hour  to  prevent  the  pease  burning  at  the  bottom  of  the  soup- 
kettle  (if  the  water  boils  away,  and  the  soup  gets  too  thick, 
add  some  boiling  water  to  it) ;  when  they  are  well  softened, 
work  them  through  a  coarse  sieve,  and  then  through  a  fine 
sieve  or  a  tamis ;  wash  out  your  stew-pan,  and  then  return 
the  soup  into  it,  and  give  it  a  boil  up ;  take  off  any  scum  that 
comes  up,  and  it  is  ready.  Prepare  fried  bread,  and  dried 
mint,  as  directed  in  No.  218,  and  send  them  up  with  it  on  two 
side  dishes. 

Obs.  This  is  an  excellent  family  soup,  produced  with  very 
little  trouble  or  expense. 

Most  of  the  receipts  for  pease  soup  are  crowded  with  in- 
gredients which  entirely  overpower  the  flavour  of  the  pease 
See  No.  555. 

Asparagus  Sowp. — (No.  222.) 

•  This  is  made  with  the  points  of  asparagus,  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  green  pease  soup  (No.  216  or  J 7)  is  with 
pease :  let  half  the  asparagus  be  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and 
the  other  cut  in  pieces  about  an  inch  long,  and  boiled  till 
done  enough,  and-sent  up  in  the  soup:  to  make  two  quarts, 
there  must  be  a  pint  of  heads  to  thicken  it,  and  half  a  pint 
cut  in ;  take  care  to  preserve  these  green  and  a  little  crisp. 
This  soup  is  sometimes  made  by  ad(Sng  the  asparagus  heads 
to  common  pease  soup. 

Obs*  Some  cooks  fry  half  an  ounce  of  onion  in  a  little 
butter,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  add  it  with  the  other 
ingredients ;  the  havi  godU  of  the  onion  will  entirely  over- 
come the  delicate  flavour  of  the  asparagus,  and  we  protest 
against  all  such  combinations. 


BtOnU,  GRAVaSf  AND  |K>UFS.  207 

Mngrcj  or  VtgtiahU  Chravy  &t9».*— (No.  994.) 

Put  into  a  gallon  stew-pan  three  ounces  of  butter ;  set  it 
over  a  slow  Ire ;  while  it  is  melting,  slice  four  ounces  of 
onion ;  cut  in  small  pieces  one  turnip,  one  carrot,  and  a  head 
of  celery ;  put  them  in  the  stewpan,  cover  it  close,  let  it  fry 
till  they  are  liffhtly  browned ;  this  will  take  about  twenty- 
five  minutes :  nave  ready,  in  a  sauce-pan,  a  pint  of  pease, 
with  four  quarts  of  water ;  when  the  roots  in  the  stew-pan 
are  quite  brown,  and  the  pease  come  to  a  boil,  put  the  pease 
and  water  to  them ;  put  it  on  the  fire ;  when  it  boils,  skim  it 
clean,  and  put  in  a  crust  of  bread  about  as  big  as  the  top  of 
a  twopenny  loaf,  twenty-four  berries  of  allspice,  the  same 
of  black  pepper,  and  two  blades  of  mace;  cover  it  close, 
let  it  simmer  gently  for  one  hour  and  a  half;  then  set  it  from 
the  fire  for  ten  minutes ;  then  pour  it  off  venr  gently  (so  as 
not  to  disturb  the  sediment  at  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan) 
into  a  larffe  basin ;  let  it  stand  (about  two  hoiu*s)  till  it  is  quite 
clear :  while  this  is  doing,  shred  one  large  turnip,  the  red  part 
of  a  large  carrot,  three  ounces  of  onion  minced,  and  one 
large  head  of  celery  cut  into  small  bits ;  put  the  turnips  and 
carrots  on  the  fire  in  cold  water,  let  them  boil  five  minutes, 
then  drain  thein  on  a  sieve,  then  pour  off  the  soup  clear  into 
a  stew-pan,  put  in  the  roots,  put  the  soup  on  the  fire,  let  it 
simmer  gently  till  the  herbs  are  tender  (trom  thirty  to  forty 
minutes),  season  it  with  salt  and  a  little  Cayenne,  and  it  is 
ready. 

You  may  add  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  catchup 
(No.  439). 

Obs.  You  will  have  three  quarts  of  soup,  as  well  coloured, 
and  almost  as  well  flavoured,  as  if  made  with  gravy  meat. 

N.B.  To  make  this  it  requires  nearly  five  hours.  To  fry 
the  herbs  reouires  twenty-five  minutes ;  to  boil  all  together, 
one  hour  and  a  half ;  to  settle,  at  the  least,  two  hours ;  when 
clear,  and  put  on  the  fire  again,  half  an  hour  more. 

FTSII  50C;P&— (No.  336.) 

Eel  Soup. 

To  make  a  tureenful,  take  a  couple  of  middling-sized 
onions,  cut  them  in  half,  and  cross  your  knife  over  them  two 
or  three  times ;  put  two  ounces  ^f*^  butter  into  a  stew-pan 

*  Tbe  Freneh  call  thUi  ^^smp  mmigre;"  the  EogUih  aeoeptatiOQ  of  wUcb  is 
^poor  and  watery,**  and  does  not  at  ail  aceord  with  Cbe  French,  which  is,  mmiiw,  ^. 
made  without  meat :  thus,  turtle,  tbe  richest  dish  tliat  comes  to  an  English  table 
(if  dressed  without  meat  gravy},  is  a  maigre  dish. 


SOS  noviUy  asAvuBy  akd  bdoss. 

when  it  is  meked,  put  in  the  onkxns,  stir  them  about  till  they 
are  lightly  browned;  cut  into  pieces  three  pounds  of  un- 
skinned  eels,  put  them  into  your  stew-pan,  and  shake  them 
over  the  fire  for  five  minutes ;  then  add  three  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  when  they  come  to  a  boil,  take  the  s^^um  oiT 
very  clean;  then  put  in  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  the  green 
leaves  (not  dried)  of  winter  savoury,  the  same  of  lemon 
thvme,  and  twice  the  quantity  of  parsley,  two  drachms^ of 
allspice,  the  same  of  black  pepper ;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it 
boil  gently  for  two  hours ;  tnen  strain  it  off,  and  skim  iJt 
very  clean.  To  thicken  it,  put  three  ounces  of  butter  into 
a  clean  stew-pan;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  in  as  much  flour  as 
will  make  it  of  a  stiff  paste,  then  add  the  liquor  by  degrees  ; 
let  it  sinuner  for  ten  minutes,  and  pass  it  through  a  sieve; 
then  put  your  soup  on  in  a  clean  stew-pan,  and  nave  ready 
some  little  square  pieces  of  fish  filed  of  a  nice  light  brown* 
either  eels,  soles,  plaice,  or  skate  will  do;  the  fried  Hsh 
should  be  added  about  ten  minutes  before  the  soup  is  served 
up.  Forcemeat  balls  (No^.  375,  378,  &c.)  are  sometimes 
added. 

Obs,  Excellent  fish  soups  may  be  made  with  a  cod^s 
skull,  or  skate,  or  flounders,  &c.  boiled  in  no  more  water 
than  will  just  icover  them«  and  the  liquor  thickened  with 
Oatmeal,  &c. 

Cheap  Sbt^i. — (No.  229.) 

Among  the  variety  of  schemes  thai  have  been  suggested 
for  "  bettering  the  condition  of  the  poor,'*  a  more  useftd  or 
extensive  charity  cannot  be  devised,  than  that  of  instructing' 
them  in  economical  cookety  v  jt  is  one  of  the  most  important 
objects  to  wluch  the  attention  of  any  real  well-wisher  to  the 
public  interest  can  possibly  be  directed. 

The  best  and  cheapest  method  of  making  a  notrrishing 
soup,  is  least  known  to  those  who  have  most  need  of  it;  it 
will  enable  those  who  have  small  incomes  and  large  families 
to  make  the  most  of  ttie  little  they  possess,  without  pinehhig 
their  children  of  that  wholesome  nourishment  which  is  ne- 
cessary for  the  purpose  of  rearing  them  up  to  maturity  in 
health  and  strength. 

The  labouring  classes  seldom  purchase  what  are  called 
the  coarser  pieoee  ef  meat^  becaine  they  do  not  know  bow 
to  dress  them,  but  lay  out  their  inoney  in  pieces  for  roast- 
ing, &c*,  of  which  the  bones,  \&c  enhance  the  price  of  the 
wcxml  meat  to  nearly  a  shilling  per  pound,  and  the  dimi- 
nution of  weight  by  roasting  amounts  to  32  per  cent»    This, 


aiOTHf ,  mkytm^  Aim  t&cn.  AOI 

fdr  ilie  mlDe  of  saring  time^  tn>id)le,  and  flf^  is  geaenlly 
sent  to  an.  oven  to  be  baked ;  the  nouxishiag  parts  are  ev9f(h 
rated  and  dri^d  up,  its  weight  is  diminished  nearly  one-third, 
and  all  that  a  poor  man  can  aflbrd  to  purdhase  with  hi* 
week's  eaminffSy  periuups  does  not  half  satisfy  the  appetites 
of  himself  and  family  for  a  couple  of  days. 

If  a  hard-woiking  man  cannot  get  a  comfortaUe  meal  at 
home,  he  soon  finds  lus  way  to  we  public-house,  the  poor 
wife  contents  herself  with  tea  and  bicad  and  butter,  and  the 
children  are  half  starved. 

Da.  KrrcmmEa's  receipt  to  make  a  cheap,  nntritive,  and 
palatable  soup,  fully  a^quate  to  satisfy  appetite  and  support 
strength^j^ill  open  a  new  somt^e  to  those  benevolent  houses 
keepers  who  are  disposed  to  relieve  the  poor;  will  show  tht 
industrious  classes  now  much  they  have  it  in  their  power  td 
assist  themselves  $  and  rescue  them  from  being  dependent  on 
the  precarious  bounty  of  others,  by.  teaching  Oiem  how  they 
may  obtain  an  abundant,  salubrious,  and  agreeable  aliment 
for  themselves  and  families,  for  one  penny  per  quart«  See 
page  210. 

For  various  economical  soups,  see  Nos.  S04,  839,  S40» 
334,  331,  and  06«.  to  Nos.  344  and  353,  and  Nos.  493  and 
503. 

Ob$.  Dripping  intended  for  soup  should  be  taken  out  of 
the  pan  almost  as  soon  as  it  has  dropped  from  the  meat;  tf 
it  is  not  quite  clean,  clarify  it.    See  receipt.  No.  83. 

Dripping  thus  prepared  is  a  very  difierent  thing  from  that 
which  has  remamed  in  the  dripping-pan  all  the  time  the 
meat  has  been  roasting,  and  perhaps  live  coato  have  dropped 
into  it.* 

Distributing  soup  does  not  answer  half  so  well  as  teaching 
people  how  to  make  it,  and  improve  their  comfort  at  home; 
Hie  time  lost  in  waiting  at  the  soup^house  is  seldom  less  than 
three  hours ;  in  which  time,  by  any  industrious  oooupation> 

*  W«  eopltd  tlwIUtowlac  Meeipi  A«b  Tht  JlfoniAv  P0H,  Jan.  JMK 

WlKTBE  ^OTw— (No.  SS7.) 


tlOHM  of  beef,  fM^-miaflefa, 
9Qibt.  of  lega  of  beef. 
8  Imsheto  of  bett  t|ittt  peaae, 
1  buahd  of  floor, 


ttbundletof  toekt, 
6  bundles  of  eelery, 
isn».  of  Milt, 
lllbs.  of  btaek  pepper. 


TlMM  good  lagMdlenls  win  iMke  1010  i|afeitiof  oottiliiMag  and  •greeaUe  aonp^ 
at  an  expense  (eeiaUishBient  avoided}  of  Httle  less  than  S^d.  per  quart. 

Of  thi8,90lM)  quarts  a  day  have  been  delivered  durin|(  the  late  Indement  weather, 
attd  ite  ceesatfon  of  ordinary  emptoyment,  at  t«vo  atations  in  the  pnrlah  of  Ber- 
mondsev,  at  one  penny  per  quart,  by  which  600  families  have  been  daily  assJittili 
and  it  thnnkAiUy  received.  Such  a  nourishment  and  comfort  could  not  nave  been 
provided  by  themsdves  separately  for  foorpence  a  quart,  If  at  all,  and  recl^oning 
little  flir  lih^ir  Are,  nothing  for  Uieic  time. 

S3 


210  BROTHS,  0£AVIB8«  AND  90VtS, 

r 

however  poorly  paid,  they  could  earn  more  money  than  the, 
quart  of  soup  is  worth. 

Db.  KiTcmNBR's  Receipt  ta  make  a  GaUon  of  Barley  Broth  for 

a  Groat.    See  also  No.  204. 

Put  four  ounces  of  Scotch  barley  (previously  washed  in 
cold  water),  and  four  ounces  of  sliced  onions,  into  five  quarts 
of  water ;  boil  gently  for  one  hour,  and  pour  it  into  a  pan ; 
then  put  into  the  saucepan  from  one  to  two  ounces  of  clean 
beef  or  mutton  drippings,  or  melted  suet,  (to  clarify  these, 
see  No.  83)  or  two  or  three  ounces  of  fat  bacon  minced ; 
when  melted,  stir  into  it  four  ounces  of  oatmeal ;  rub  these 
together  till  you  make  a  paste  (if  this  be  properly  managed, 
the  whole  of  the  fat  will  combine  with  the  barley  broth,  and 
not  a  particle  appear  on  the  surface  to  offend  the  most 
delicate  stomach) ;  now  add.  the  barley  broth,  at  first  a 
spoonful  at  a  time,  then  the  rest  by  degrees,  stirring  it  weU 
together  till  it  boils.  To  season  it,  put  a  drachm  of  finely- 
pounded  celery,  or  cress-seed,  or  half  a  drachm  of  each,  and 
a  quarter  of  a  drachm  of  finely-pounded  Cayenne  (No.  404), 
or  a  drachm  and  a  half  of  ground  black  pepper,  or  allspice, 
into  a  tea^cup,  and  miy  it  up  with  a  little  of  the  soup,  and 
then  pour  it  into  the  rest ;  stir  it  thoroughly  together;  let  it 
simmer  gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer,  season  it  with 
salt, ani  it  is  ready. 

The  flavour  may  be  varied  by  doubling  the  portion  of 
onions,  or  adding  a  clove  of  garlic  or  eschalot,  and  leaving 
out  the  celery-seed  (No.  572),  or  put  in  shiedded  roots 
as  in  No.  224;  or,  instead  of  oatmeal,  thicken  it  widi 
ground  rice,  or  pease,  &c.,  and  make  it  savoury  with  fried 
onions. 

This  preparation,  excellent  as  it  is,  would,  without  variety, 
soon  become  less  agreeable. 

Nothing  so  completely  disarms  poverty  of  its  sting,  as 
the  means  of  rendering  a  scanty  pittance  capable  of  3rielding 
a  comfortable  variety. 

Change  of  flavour  is  absolutely  necessary,  not  merely  as 
a  'matter  of  pleasure  and  comfort,  but  of  health ;  toujours 
perdriyc  is  a  true  proverb. 

This  soup  will  be  much  improved,  if,  instead  of  water,  it 
be  made  with  the  liquor  meat  has  been  boiled  in ;  at  tripe, 
cow-heel,  and  cook-shops,  this  may  be  had  for  little  or 
nothing. 

This  soup  has  the  advantage  of  being  very  soon  and 
easily  made,  with  no  more  fuel  than  is  necessary  to  warm 


BBOTHB,  OBAVISSy  AJW  80IJV8.  211 

a  room ;  those  who  have  noi  ti^sted  it,  cannot  imagiiie  what 
a  sayoury  and  sati8f3ring  meal  is  produced  by  the  combina- 
tion  of  these  cheap  and  homely  ingredients. 

If  the  ^nerally-received  opinion  be  true,  that  animal  and 
vegetable  foods  afford  nourishment  in  proportion  to  the 
quantity  of  oil,  jelly,  and  mucilage,  that  can  be  extracted 
irom  them,  this  soop  has  strong  claims  to  thb  attention  of 
rational  economists. 

CraixhJUh  Soup, — (No.  235.) 

This  soup  is  sometimes  made  with  beef,  or  veal  broth,  or 
with  fish,  in  the  following  manner : 

Take  flounders,  eels,  gudgeons,  &c.,  and  set  them  on  to 
boil  in  cold  water ;  when  it  is  pretty  nigh  boiling,  skim  it 
weU ;  and  to  three  quarts  put  in  a  couple  of  onions,  and  as 
many  carrots  cut  to  pieces,  some  parsley,  a  dozen  berries  of 
black  and  Jamaica  pepper,  and  about  hsdf  a  hundred  craw- 
fish ;  take  off  the  small  claws  and  shells  of  the  tails ;  pound 
them  fine,  and  boil  them  with  the  broth  about  an  hour; 
strain  off,  and  break  in  some  crusts  of  bread  to  thicken 
it,  and,  if  you  can  get  it,  the  spawn  of  a  lobster ;  pound  it, 
and  put  it  to  the  soup ;  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  a  couple 
of  minutes ;  put  in  your  craw-fish  to  get  hot,  and  the  soup 
is  ready. 

Ob$. — One  of  my  predecessors  recommends  craw-fish 
poui^ed  alive,  to  sweeten  the  sharpness  of  the  blood.  Vide 
Gubrmomt's  Oxikery^  p.  5,  London,  1776. 

^  Un  des  grands  hommes  de  bouche  de  France^  says,  ^  Un 
ban  cotUis  (fecrevisses  est  Uparadis  sur  la  terre^  et  diene  de  la 
table  des  dieux;  and  of  all  the  tribe  of  sheU-fish,  wnich  our 
industry  and  our  sensuality  bring  from  the  bottom  of  the  sea, 
the  river,  or  the  pond,  the  craw-fish  is  incomparably  the  most 
useful  and  the  most  delicious." 

Lobster  Soup. — (No.  337.) 

You  must  have  three  fine  lively*  young  hen  lobsters,  and 
boil  them,  see  No.  176 ;  when  cold,  split  the  tails ;  take  out 
the  fish,  crack  the  claws,  and  cut  the  meat  into  mouthfuls : 
take  out  the  coral,  and  sojft  part  of  the  body ;  bruise  part  of 
the  coral  in  a  mortar ;  pick  out  the  fish  from  the  chines ;  beat 
part  of  it  with  the  corad,  and  with  this  make  forcemeat  balls» 
finely-flavoured  with  mace  or  nutmeg,  a  little  grated  lemon* 

*ReadNo.i76. 


Bit  mmM  oAvniv  42«d  mom. 

pMi,  aaelKnryy  and  CafemiB;  pound  tiiese  with  tbe  yiik of 

Hare  three  quarto  of  veal  broth;  bndse  the  small  lege 
and  the  diine,  and  put  them  into  it,  to  boil  for  twenty 
■unntea,  then  strain  it;  and  then  to  thicken  it,  take  the 
Uva  spawn  and  bruise  it  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  batter 
and  flour ;  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  add  it  to  the  soup 
with  the  meat  of  the  lobster^,  and  the  remaining  coral ;  let 
it  simmer  very  gently  for  ten  minutes ;  do  not  let  it  boil, 
or  its  fine  red  colour  will  inmiediately  fade ;  turn  it  into  a 
tureen;  add  the  juice  of  a  good  lemon,  and  a  little  essence 
of  anchovy* 

Soup  and  Bofn2lt.^(No.  238.    See  also  No.  5. 

The  best  parts  for  this  purpose  are  the  leg  or  shin,  or  a 
piece  of  the  middle  of  a  brisket  of  beef,  of  about  seven  or 
eiffht  pounds  weight ;  lay  it  on  a  fish-chainer,  or  when  you 
tttke  it  up  put  a  slice  under  it,  which  will  enable  you  to  plaee 
it  on  the  dish  entire ;  put  it  into  a  soup-pot  or  de^  stew-pan, 
with  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it,  a^d  a  quart  over ;  set 
it  OB  a  ouick  fire  to  get  the  scum  up,  which  remove  as  it 
rises ;  then  put  in  two  carrots,  two  turnips,  two  leeks,  or 
two  larte  omons,  two  heads  of  celery,  two  or  three  clovesi 
and  a  fagot  of  parsley  and  sweet  herbs ;  set  the  pot  by 
the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  very  gently,  till  the  meat  is 
just  tender  enough  to  eat :  this  will  require  about  four  or 
five  hours. 

Put  a  large  carrot,  a  turnip,  a  large  onion,  and  a  head 
or  two  of  celery,  into  the  soup  whole ;  take  them  out  aa 
soon  as  they  are  done  enough;  lay  them  on  a  dish  till 
Ihey  are  cold;  then  cut  tbem  into  small  squares:  when 
the  beef  is  done,  take  it  out  carefully:  to' dish  it. up,  see 
No.  304,  or  No.  493:  strain  the  soup  through  a  hair* 
sieve  into  a  clean  stew-pan;  take  off  the  fat,  and  put  the 
vegetables  tluU  are  cut  into  the  soup,  the  flavour  of  which 
you  may  heighten  by  adding  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom 
catchnpw 

If  a  thickened  soup  is  preferred,  take  four  large  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  clear  fat  from  the  top  of  the  pot,  and  four 
spoonfuls  of  flour ;  mix  it  smooth  together ;  then  by  degrees 
atir  it  well  into  the  soup,  which  simmer  for  ten  minutes 
)oiiger  at  least ;  skim  it  well,  and  pass  it  through  a  tamis,  or 
tee  sieve,  and  add  the  vegetables  and  seasoning  the  same  as 
directed  in  the  clear  soup. 

Keep  the  beef  hot,  and  send  it  up  (as  a  remove  to  the 


ttoTHS)  muviss^  Am9  fomw.  tit 

soup)  with  iiiwly-eiiopped  ptanlBf  sprinkled  on  the  top^  and 
a  sauoe-boat  of  No.  338. 

Ox-^iead  Soupr-(So,  329.) 

Should  be  prepared  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten«  as  jon 
cannot  cut  the  meat  off  the  head  into  neat  moothfids  unless 
it  is  cold :  therefore,  the  day  before  you  want  this  soup,  put 
half  an  ox-cheek  into  a  tub  of  cold  water  to  soak  for  a  couple 
of  hours ;  then  break  the  bones  that  have  not  been  broken 
at  the  butcher's,  and  wash  it  very  well  in  warm  water;  put 
it  into  a  pot,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water;  when  it  boils^ 
skim  it.  very  clean,  and  then  put  in  one  head  of  celery,  a 
couple  of  carrots,  a  turnip,  two  large  onions,  two  dozen 
berries  of  black  pepper,  same  of  aUspice,  and  a  bundle  of 
sweet  herbs,  such  as  maijoram,  lemon-thyme,  savoury,  and 
a  handful  of  parsley;'  cover. the  soup-pot  close,  and  set  it  on 
a  slow  fire ;  take  off  the  scum,  which  will  rise  when  it  is 
coming  to  a  boil,  and  set  it  by  the  fireside  to  stew  veiy 
gently  for  about  three  hours ;  take  out  the  head,  lay  it  on  a 
dish,  pour  the  soup  through  a  fine  sieve  into  a  stone-ware  pan, 
and  set  it  and  the  head  by  in  a  cool  place  till  the  next  day; 
Uien  cut  the  meat  into  neat  mouthfuls,  skim  and  strain  off 
the  broth,  put  two  quarts  of  it  and  the  meat  into  a  clean 
stew-pan,  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  half  an  hour  longer, 
and  it  is  ready.  If  you  wish  it  thickened  (which  we  do  not 
recommend,  for  the  reasons  given  in  the  7th  chapter  of  the 
Rudiments  of  Cookery),  put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a 
stew-pan ;  when  it  is  melted,  throw  in  as  much  flour  as  will 
dry  it  up;  when  they  are  all  well  mixed  together,  and 
browned  by  degrees,  pour  to  this  your  soup,  and  stir  it  well 
together;  let  itjsimmer  for  half  an  hour  longer;  strain  it 
t^ugh  a  hair-sieve  into  a  clean  stew-pan,  and  put  to  it 
the  meat  of  the  head ;  let  it  stew  half  an  hour  longer,  and 
season  it  with  Cayenne  pej^r,  salt,  and  a  ^ass  of  good 
wine,  or  a  table-spoonful  of  brandy.  See  Ox-cheek  stewed. 
No.  507. 

0&9.— Those  who  wish  Uiis  soup  still  more  savoury,  &c. 
tot  the  means  of  making  it  so,  we  refer  to  No.  347. 

N.B.  This  is  an  excellent  and  economical  soup.  See  also 
Nos.  304  and  339. 

If  you  serve  it  as  soup  for  a  dozen  pe<^le,  tbdcken  one 
tureen,  and  send  up  the  meat  in  that ;  and  send  up  the  other 
as  a  ^ear  gravy  soup,  with  some  of  the  carrots  and  tur»fis 
shredded,  or  cut  into  shapes. 


Ox-^ail  i^ltn^i. — (No.  240.) 

Three  tails,  costing  about  7ti.  each,  will  make  a  tureen 
of  soup  (desire  the  butcher  to  divide  them  at  theijunts); 
lay  them  to  soak  in  warm  water,  while  you  get  liwy  the 
vegetables.  ^ 

Put  into  a  gallon  stew-^pan  eight  cloves,  two  or^thre^ 
onions,  half  a  drachm  of  allspice,  and  the  same  ol^ black 
pepper,  and  the  tails  ;*  cover  them  with  cold  water ;  skim 
it  carefully,  when  and  as  long  as  you  see  any  scum  rise ; 
then  cover  the  pot  as  close  as  possible,  and.  set  it  on  jthe  side 
of  the  fire  to  keep  gently  simmering  tUl  the  meat  becomes 
tender  and  wiU  leave  the. bones  easily, because  it  is  to  be 
eaten  with  a  spoon, .without  the  assistance  of  a  knife  or  fork; 
see  N.B.  to  No.  244 ;  this  will  require  about  two  hours : 
mind  it  is  not  done  too  much :  when  perfectly  tender,  take 
out  the  meat  and  cut  it  off  the  bones,  in  neat  mouthfuls ; 
skim  the  broth,  and  strain  it  through  a  sieve ;  if  yQ||  prefer 
a  thickened  soup,  put  flour  and  butter,  as  directed  in  the 
preceding  receipt ;  or  put  two  table-spoonfuls  of  the  fat  you 
have  taken  off  the  broth  into  a  clean  stew-pan,  with  as  much 
flour  as  will  make  it  into  a  paste  ;^  set  this  over  the  fire,  and 
stir  them  well  together ;  then  pour  in  the  broth  by  degrees, 
stirring  it,  and  mixing  it  with  the  thickening ;  let  it  simmer 
for  another  half  hour^  and  when  you  have  well  skimmed  it, 
and  it  is  quite  smooth,  then  strain  it  through  a  tamis  into  a 
clean  stew-pan,  put  in  the  meat,  with  a  table-spoonfuX  of 
mushroom  catchup  (No.  439),  a  glass  of  wine,  and  season  it 
with  salt.  < 

For  increasing  the  piouance  of  this  soup,  read  No.  947. 

O^s.—See  N.B.  to  No.  244 ;  if  the  meat  ii^  cut  off  the 
bones,  you  must  have  three  tails  for  a  tureen,  see  N.B.  to 
No.  244 :  some  put  an  ox-cheek  or  tails  im  an  earthen  pan, 
with  all  the  ingredients  as  above,  and  eend  them  to  a  iglow 
oven  for  five  or  six  hours. 

To  stew  ox-tails,  see  No.  531. 

Ox-heel  Sotip,— (No.  240*.) 

Must  be  made  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten.  Procure  an 
ox-heel  undressed,  or  only  scalded  (not  one  that  has  been 
already  boiled,  as  they  are^at  the  tripe-shops,  tiU  almost  all 
th6  gelatinous  parts  are  extracted),  and  two  that  have  been 
boiled  as  they  usually  are  at  the  tripe-shops> 

Cut  the  meat  off  the  boiled  heels  into  neat  mojithfuls,  and 

*  gome  loven  cfknt  goAt  fry  the  talis  before  they  imt  them  Into  the  soup-pot. 


BROTHS,  OSAVZX8,  AlfD  iOVn.  215 

set  it  by  on  aplate ;  put  the  tnipmmgs  and  bone* into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  three  quarts  of  water,  and  the  unboiled  heel  cut 
into  quarters ;  furnish  a  stew-pan  with  two  onions,  and  two 
turnips  pared  and  sliced ;  pare  off  the  red  part  of  a  coiu^ 
of  large  eairots,  add  a  couple  of  eschalots  cut  in  half^  a 
bunch  of  sayoury  or  lemon-thyme,  and  double  the  quantity 
of  parsley;  set  this  over^ or  by  the  side  of  a  slow,  steady 
fire,  and  keep  it  closely  covered  and  simmering^  very  gently 
(or  the  soup  liquor  will  evaporate)  for  at  least  seven  hours : 
during  which,  take  care  to  remove  the  fat  and  scum  that 
will  rise  to  the  surface  of  the  soup,  which  must  be  kept  as 
clean  as  possible. 

Now  strain  the  liquor  through  a  sieve,  and  put  two.  ounces 
of  butter  into  a  clean  stew-pan ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  into 
it  as  much  flour  as  will  msuce  it  a  stiff  paste;  add  to  it  by 
degrees  the  soup  liquor;  give  it  a  boil  up;  strain  it  through 
a  sieve,  and  put  in  the  peel  of  a  lemon  pared  as  thin  as  pos- 
sible, and  a  couple  of  bay-leaves,  and  the  meat  of  the  boiled 
heels ;  let  it  go  on  simmering  for  half  an  hour  longer,  u  e.  till 
the  meat  is  tender.  Put  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  glass  of 
wine,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  catchup,  and  the 
soup  is  ready  for  the  tureen. 

Obs.  Those  who  are  disposed  to  make  this  a  more  sub- 
stantial dish,  may  introduce  a  couple  of  sets  of  goose  or 
duck  giblets,  or  ox-tails,  or  a  pound  of  veal  cutlets,  cut  into 
mouthfuls. 

.   Hdre^  Rahbit,  or  Partridge  Soap. — (No.  241.) 

An  old  hare,  or  birds,  when  so  tough  as  to  defy  the  teeth 
in  any  other  form,  will  make  very  good  soup. 

Cut  off  the  legs  and  shoulders ;  divide  the  body  crossways, 
and  stew  them  very  gently  in  three  quarts  of  water,  with  one 
carrot,  about  one  ounce  of  onion,  with  four  cloves,  two 
blades  of  pounded  mace,  twenty-four  black  peppers,  and  a 
bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  till  the  hare  is  tender  (most  cooks  add 
to  the  above  a  couple  of  slices  of  ham  or  bacon,  and  a  bay 
leaf,  &c.,  but  my  palate  and  purse  both  plead  against  such 
extravagance;  the  hare  makes  sufficiently  savoury  soup 
without  them) :  the  time  this  will  take  depends  very  much 
«pon  its  age,  and  how  long  it  has  been  kept  before  it  is 
dressed :  as  a  general  rule,  about  three  hours :  in  the  mean 
time,  make  a  dozen  and  a  half  of  nice  folrcemeat  balls  (as  big 
as  nutmegs)  of  No.  379 ;  when  the  hare  is  quite  tender,  take 
the  meat  off  the  back,  and  the  upper  joint  of  the  leffs ;  ctit  it 
into  neat  mouthfuls,  and  lay  it  aside ;  cut  the  rest  of  the  meat 


tic  .    Mtofvsy  auAvuBBf  Asm  fOOfi. 

off  the  legiy  diooldevi,  fcc,  mince  it  and  pound  it  in  a  mor- 
tem vriA  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  two  or  three  taMengpoonfuls 
of  Hoar  moistened  with  a  little  eonp ;  nib  thie  through  a  hsur- 
mere,  and  put  it  into  the  soup  to  tiiickeh  it ;  let  it  dimmer 
riowly  hair  an  hour  longer,  skimming  it  well;  put  it  throu^ 
the  tamis  into  the  pan  again ;  and  put  in  the  meat  with  a  glaas 
of  elaret  or  port  wine,  and  a  taUenspoonful  of  currant  jell^r 
to  each  quart  of  soup ;  season  it  witn  salt,  put  in  the  force- 
meat bads,  and  when  aU  is  well  warmed,  the  soup  is  ready. 

Obi*  Cold  roast  hare  will  make  excellent  soup.  Chop  it 
m  pieces,  and  stew  it  in  water  (according^  to  the  quantity  of 
hare)  for  about  an  hour,  and  manage  it  as  in  the  above 
receipt :  the  stuffing  of  the  hare  will  be  a  substitute  for  sweet 
herbs  and  seasoning. 

N.B.  This  soup  maybe  niade  with  mock  hare,  see  K0.6& 

Game  Soup.— (No.  243.) 

In  the  game  season,  it  iseajsyfor  a  code  to  give  her  master 
a  very  good  aoup  at  a  very  little  expense,  by  taking  all  the 
meat  off  the  breasts  of  any  cold  birds  which  have  been  left 
the  preceding  day,  and  pounding  it  in  a  mortar,  and  beatinc 
to  pieces- the  legs  and  bones,  and  boiling  them  in  some  broth 
for  an  hour.  Boil  six  turnips ;  mash  them,  and  strain  them 
through  a  tamis-doth  witi^  the  meat  that  has  been  pounded 
in  a  mortar ;  strai.n  your  broth,  and  put  a  little  of  it  at  a  time 
into  the  tamis  to  help  you  to  strain  all  of  it  through.  Put 
your  soup-kettle  near  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boU :  when 
ready  to  dish  your  dinner,  have  six  yelks  of  eggs  mixed 
with  half  a  pint  of  cream ;  strain  through  a  sieve ;  put  your 
soup  on  the  fire,  and  as  it  is  coming  to  boil,  put  in  tilie  eggs, 
and  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon :  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it 
willeuidle. 

Goose  9r  Dude  Giidti  Soup.^^No.  ^i^.) 

Scald  and  pick  very  clean  a  couple  sets  of  goose,  or  four 
of  duck  giblets  (the  ire^er  the  better) ;  wash  them  well  in 
warm  water,  in  two  or  three  waters ;  cut  off  the  noses  and 
s»lit  the  heads ;  divide  the  gizzardB  and  necks  into  mouth- 
fals.  If  the  gizzards  are  not  cut  into  pieces  before  they  are 
done  enough,  the  rest  of  the  meat,  &c.  will  be  done  too  much ; 
and  knives  and  forks  have  no  business  in  a  soup-plate^ 
Crack  the  bones  of  the  legs,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan ; 
cover  them  with  cold  water :  when  they  boil,  take  on  the 

*  Towli*  or  lorkf  ys*  headi  make  good  an4  eheap  soup  in  the  same  manner. 


jmiOftHSf  aiUVISS,   ANP  80VM.  SI 7 

scum  as  it  rises;  then  put  in  a  bundle  of  herbs^  such  as 
lemon-thyme,  winter  savouiy^or  maijoram,  about  three  tfprigs 
of  each,  and  double  the  quantity  of  parsley,  an  onion,  twenty 
berries  of  allspice,  tiie  same  of  black  pepper;  tie  them  dl  up 
in  a  muslin  bag,  and  set  them  to  stew  rery  gently  till  the 
gizzards  are  tender :  this  will  take  from  an  hour  and  a  half 
to  two  hours,  according  to  tiie  size  and  age  of  the  giblets : 
take  them  up  with  a  jdummer,  or  a  spoon  full  of  holes,  put 
them  into  the  tureen,  and  cover  down  close  to  keep  warm 
till  the  soup  is  ready. 

To  thicken  the  soup.  Melt  an  oimce  and  a  half  of  butter 
in  a  clean  stew*pan;  stir  in  as  much  fLoja  as  will  make  it 
into  a  paste ;  then  pour  to  it  by  degrees  a  ladleful  of  the  giblet 
liquor;  add  the  remainder  by  degrees ;  let  it  boil  about  half 
an  hour,  stirring  it  all  the  while  for  fear  it  should  bum ;  skim 
it,  and  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve  into  a  basin ;  wash  out 
the  stew-pan;  then  return  the  soup  into  it,  and  season  it  with 
a  glass  01  wine,  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  catchup,  and 
a  little  salt;  let  it  have  one  boil  up ;  and  then  put  the  giblets 
in  to  get  hot,  and  the -soup  is  ready. 

Obs.  Thus  managed,  one  set  of  goose,  or  two  of  duck  gib- 
lets (which  latter  may  sometimes  be  had  for  3d.),  will  make 
a  quart  of  healthful,  nourishing  soup :  if  you  think  the  giblets 
^one  will  not  .make  the  gravy  savoury  enough,  add  a  pound 
of  beef  or  mutton,  or  bone  of  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  heijghten 
its  ^^ piquance'^  by  adding  a  few  leaves  of  sweet  basQ,  the 
juice  of  half  a  Seville  orange  or  lemon,  and  half  a  glass  of 
wine,  and  a  little  of  No.  343*  to  each  quart  of  soup. 

.  Those  who  are  fond  of  forcemeat  may  slip  the  skin  off  the 
neck,  and  fill  it  with  No.  378;  tie  up  tho  other  end  tight;  put 
it  into  the  soup  about  half  an  hour  before  you  take  it  up,  or 
make  some  nice  savouiy  balls  of  the  duck  stuffing.  No.  61. 

Obs.  Bespeak  the  giblets  a  couple  of  days  before  you  desire 
to  have  them :  this  is  a  favourite  soup  when  the  giblets  are 
done  tiU  nicely  tender,  but  yet  not  overboiled.  Giblets  may 
be  had  from  July  to  January ;  the  fresher  they  are  the  better. 

N.B.  This  is  rather  a  family-dish  than  a  company  one ; 
tlie  hemes  cannot  be  well  picked  without  the  help  of  alive 
pincers. 

Since  Tom  Coryat  introduced  forks,  A.  D.  1643,  it  has  not 
been  the  fashiion  to  put "  pickers  and  stealers^'  into  soup. 


910  mOTBB,  OBAVlES«  AND  9&CtA. 


MockMock  7\irc/e,— (No.  345.) 

At  made  hy  Elizabeth  Lister  {kae  cook  to  Dr.  KUchirUr),  bread 
and  biscuit  baker,  Ab.  6  Salcombe  Places  York  Terrace, 
RegenCs  Park,  Qoe»  out  to  dresa  dinners  on  reasomble 
terms. 

Line  the  bottom  of  a  6tew-pan  that  will  hold  five  pints,  with 
an  ounce  of  nice  lean  bacon  or  ham,  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
lean  gravy  beef,  a  cow-heel,  the  inner  rind  of  a  carrot,  a 
sprig  of  lemon*th3n[ne,  winter  savouty,  three  times  the  qu^- 
tity  of  parsley,  a  few  green  leaves  of  sweet  basil,*^  and  t\vo 
eschalots ;  put  in  a  lar^e  onion,  with  four  cloves  stuck  in  it, 
eighteen  corns  of  allspice,  the  same  of  black  pepper ;  pour  on 
these  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cold  water,  cover  the  stew-pan, 
and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  to  boil  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour ;  then,  for  fear  the  meat  should  catch,  take  off  the  cover, 
and  watch  it ;  and  when  it  has  got  a  good  brown  colour,  fill 
up  the  stew-pan  with  boiling  water,*  and  let  it  simmer  very 
gently  for  two  hours :  if  you  wish  to  have  the  full  benefit  of 
vie  meat,  only  stew  it  till  it  is  just  tender,  cut  it  into  mouth- 
fuls,  and  put  it  into  the  soup.  To  thicken  it,  pour  two  or  .three 
table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  a  ladleful  of  the  gravy,  aiid  stir  it  quick 
till  it  is  well  mixed ;  pour  it  back  into  the  stew-pan  where  the 
gravy  is,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour  longer ; 
skim  it,  and  then  strain  it  through  a  tamis  into  the  stew-pan : 
cut  the  cow-heel  into  pieces  about  an  inch  square,  squeeze 
through  a  sieve  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  table-spooxiful  of 
mushroom  catchup,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  tea-spoonful 
of  ground  black  pepper,  as  much  grated  nutmeg  as  will  lie  on 
a  sixpence,  and  a  glass  of  Madeira  or  sherry  wine;  let  it  all 
simmer  together  for  five  minutes  longer. 

Forcemeat  or  egg  balls  may  be  added  if  you  please ;  you 
.wOl  find  a  receipt  for  these,  No.  380,  &c. 

*»*  A  pound  of  veal  cutlets,  or  the  beHy  part  of  pickled 
pork,  or  nice  double  tripe  cut  into  pieces  about  an  inch 
square,  and  half  an  inch  thick,  and  rounded  and  trimmed 
neatly  from  all  skin,  gristle,  &c.  and  stewed  tiU  they  are  ten- 
der, will  be  a  great  sedition. 

*  To  tbifl  fine  aromatio  heib,  tartle  soup  is  much  indebted  for  ita  apicy  flavoar, 
and  the  hi|^  esteem  it  is  held  in  by  the  good  citizena  of  London,  who,  I  believe,  are 
pr^ty  generally  of  the  same  opinion  as  Dr.  Salmon.  See  his  "  Househotd  Dictiotuuy 
and  Egtay  on  Cookery  »  Bv6.  London,  1710,  page  34,  article  '  BasU.*  «  This  ^- 
forta  the  heart,  ejcpels  melancholy,  and  cleanses  the  lungs."  Bee  No.  397.  "This 
Iriant  gave  the  peculiar  flavour  to  tne  original  Fetter-lane  9aiuages*^'-^fi^'i*ii 
S»^Unent  to  the  PAarmacctpaia,  8vo.  1^1  p.  SS. 


BBOTHS,  a^AVIfiS,  AND  S0UF8.  219 

JModb  7\«rete,— (Np.  247.)  . 

Is  the  ^*  bonne  bouche'^  which  "  the  officers  of  the  mouth"  of 
old  England*  prepare,  when  they  choose  to  rival  **  les  grands 
cuistniers  de  France'^  in  a  "  ragout  sans  pareiV^ 

The  following  receipt  is  an  attempt  (and  the  committee  of 
taste  pronomiced  it  a  successful  one),  to  imitate  the  excellent 
and  generally  approved  mock  turtle  made  by  Messrs.  Birch, 
CornhilL 

Endeavour  to  have  the  head  and  the  broth  ready  for  the 
soup,t  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten. 

It  will  take  eight  hours  to  prepare  it  properly. 

h»urt. 

deaning  and  soakinji  the  head 1 

To  parboil  it  to  cut  up 1 

Cooliogt  nearly ' 1 

Making  tbe  brodi  and  finifbing  the  soup 5 

8 

Get  a  calfs  head  with  the  skin  on  (the  fresher  the  better^ ; 
take  out  the  brains,  wash  the  head  several  times  in  cold 
water,  let  it  soak  for  about  an.hour  in  spring- water,  then  lay 
it  in  a  stew-pan,'and  cover  it  with  cold  water,  and  half  a 
gallon  over ;  as  it  becomes  warm,  a  great  deal  of  scum  will 
rise,  which  must  be  immediately  removed ;  let  it  boil  gently 
for  one  hour,  take  it  up,  and  when  almost, cold,  cut  the  head 
into  pieces  about  an  inch  and  a  half  by  an  inch  and  a  quarter, 
and  the  tongue  into  mouthfuls,  or  rather  make  a  side-dish  of 
the  tongue  and  brains,  as  in  No.  10. 

When  the  head  is  taken  out,  put  in  the  stock  meat,t  about 
five  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal,  and  as  much  beef;  add  to  the 
stock  all  the  trimmings  and  bones  of  th&head,  skim  it  weU, 

"  Tout  le  monde  aait  que  toua  lee  ragvAts  qiii  portent  le  nom  de  tortub,  aont 
d'orwine  Anciaiae.*'— Jfeii»e<  du  JtmpkTtr^atUy  8vo.  1806,  p.  S39. 

t  Those  who  do  not  like  the  trouble,  Stc.  of  making  mock  turtle,  maybe  nnptted 
with  it  ready  made,  in  high  perfection,  at  Birch's,  in  Comhill.  It  ia  not  povnuodi 
with  Cayenne  pepper,  which  the  tartle  and  mock  turtle  soup  of  most  pastraMPkR 
and  tavern  cooks  is,  and  to  that  degree,  lliat  it  acts  hke  a  blister  on  UM  coatilw  th» 
stomach.  This  prevents  our  mentioning  any  other  maker  of  this  soup,  whlcb  is 
often  mada  with  cow-ho^  or  the  mera  scalp  of  the  calTs  head,  instead  of  the  head 
itselt 

The  following  are  Mr.  Birch's  directions  for  warming  this  soup  ?— Empty  tba 
turtle  into  a  broad  earthen  vessel,  to  ke^  cool :  when  wanted  fat  table,  to  two 
anarts  of  soup  add  one  gill  of  boUiag  water  ot  veal  broUi,  put  it  over  a  good,  clear 
nre,  keepina  it  gently  sthrred  (that  it  may  not  bom) ;  when  it  has  boiled  about  three 
minutesjsklm  it,  and  put  it  in  the  tureen. 

N.]ft.  The  broth  or  water,  and  the  wine,  to  be  pot  into  the  stew-ptn  beibro  yon 
put  in  the  turtle. 

t  The  reader  may  have  remarked,  that  piock  tartle  and  potted  beef  alvrays  gobm 
in  season  together. 

See  Obt.  to  Ho.  SOS*.  This  gnvv  Meat  will  make  an  excellent  savomry  potted 
reliso.  as  it  will  be  impregnated  with  the  flavour  of  the  herbs  and  spice  that  are 
boiled  with  it. 


tSO  noma,  mavubs,  axd  won* 

and  then  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  boi^  five  hours  (reserve  a 
coirole  of  quarts  of  this  to  make  gravy  sauces,  &c.  see  No. 
307] ;  then  strain  it  off,  and  let  it  stand  till  the  next  morning; 
then  take  off  the-fat,  set  alari^e  stew-pan  on  the  fire  withhSf 
a  pound  of  good  fresh  hutter,  twelve  ounces  of  onions  sliced, 
and  four  ounces  of  green  sage;  chop  it  a  little ;  let  these  fry^ 
one  hour;  then  rub  in  half  a  pound  of  flour,  and  by  degrees 
add  your  broth  till  it  is  the  thickness  of  cream ;  season  it 
with  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  ground  allspice  and  half  an 
ounce  of  black  pepper  ground  very  fine,  salt  to  your  taste,' 
and  the  rind  or  one  lemon  peeled  very  thin ;  let  it  simmer 
very  ^ntly  for  one  hour  and  a  half,  then  strain  it  through  a 
hair-sieve ;  do  not  rub  your  soup  to  get  it  through  the  sieve, 
or  it  wiU  make  it  grouty ;  if  it  does  not  run  through  easily,' 
knock  your  wooden-spoon  sigainst  Itie  side  of  yomr  sieve ; 
put  it  in  a  clean  stew-pan  with  the  head,  and  season  it  by 
addinf  to  each  gallon  of  soup  half  a  pint  of  wine ;  this 
should  be  Madeira,  or,  if  you  wish  to  darken  the  colour  of 
your  soup,  claret,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  lemon-juice, 
see  No.  407*;  let  it  simmer  gently  till  the  meat  is  tender; 
this  may  take  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour :  take  care  it  is 
not  over-done ;  stir  it  frequently  to  prevent  the  meat  stick- 
ing to  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan,  and  when  the  meat  is 
quite  tender  the  soup  is  ready. 

A  head  weighing  twenty  pounds,  and  ten  pounds<of  stock 
meat,  will  make  ten  quarts  of  excellent  soup,  besides  the 
two  quarts  of  stock  you  have  put  by  for  made  dishes,  &c. 

Obs,  If  there  is  more  meat  on  the  head  than  you  wish  to 
put  in  the  soup,  prepare  it  for  a  pie,  and,  with  the  addition 
of  a  calPs  foot  boiled  tender,  it  will  make  an  excellent 
ragdiHt  pie ;  season  it  with  zest,  and  a  little  minced  onion, 
put  in  half  a  tea-cupful  of  stock,  cover  it  with  puff  paste, 
and  bake  it  one  hour :  when  the  soup  comes  from  table,  if 
there  is  a  dead  of  meat  and  no  soup,  put  it  into  a  pie-dish, 
season  it  a  little,  and  add  some  little  stock  to  it ;  then  cover 
it  with  paste,  bake  it  one  hour,  and  you  have  a  good  mock 
turtle  pie. 

This  soi^  was  eaten  by  the  committee  of  taste  with 
unanimous  applause,  and  they  pronounced  it  a  very  satis- 
factory substitute*  for   "the  far-fetch'd  and  dear-bought** 

*  "  Many  founnets  and  gastrologers  prefer  the  eopy  to  the  original :  vre  toateiB 
ttiM  when  done  as  it  ought  to  be,  ^  mock  turtle  is  exoeeditigly  interesting.*'-- TVi- 
beUa  Cibaria^  1820,  p.  30. 

**  Tuitles  often  become  emaciated  and  sickly  before  th^  reach  this  country,  in 
Which  case  the  soup  would  be  Incomparably  improved  by  leaving  out  the  turtle, 
and  substituting  a  good  calf's  head." — Supplement  to  Enof/c.  Brit.  Edinburgh,  vol. 
iv.  p.  331. 


turtlie ;  which  is  entirely  indebted  ifor  its  title  of  '*  sovexeign 
of  sfavouriiiessy''  to  the  rich  soup  with  which  it  is  sur* 
foanded* 

Without  its  paraphernalia  of  subtle  double  relishes,  a 
^'starved  turtle,^  has  not  more  intrinsic  sapidity  than  a 
^  fatted  calf.''  Friendly  reader,  it  is  really  neither  half  so 
wholescnne,  nor  half  so  toothsome.  See  Essence  of  Turtle, 
No.  343*,  and  0&^  to  No.  493,  To  warm  this  soup,  see  No. 
485. 

To  season  it,  to  each  gallon  of  soup  put  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  lemontjuice,  see  No.  407*,  same  of  mushroom 
catchup  (No.  439),  and  one  of  essence  of  anchovy  (No..  433), 
half  a  pint  of  wine  (this  should  be  Madeira,  or,  if  you  wie& 
to  darken  the  colour  of  your  soup,  elsuret),  a  tea^spoonful  of 
eurry  powder  (No.  455),  or  a  quarter  of  a  drachm  of  Cay* 
enne,  and  the  peel  of  a  lemon  pared  as  thin  as  possible ;  let 
it  sinuner  five  minutes  more,  take  out  the  lemon-peel,  and  thQ 
soup  is  ready  for  the  tureen. 

While  the  soup  is  doing,  prepare  for  each  tureen  a  do2i^ 
and  a  half  of  mock  turtle  forcemeat  balls  (to  make  these, 
see  No.  375  or  No.  376,  No.  390  to  No.  396);  we  prefer  the 
stuffing  ordered  in  No.  61,  and  a  dozen  egg  balls ;  and  put 
them  mto  the  tureen.  Brain  balls,  or  cakes,  are  a  very 
elegant  addition*  and  are  made  by  boiling  the  brains  for  ^n. 
minutes,  then,  putting  them  in  cold  water,  and  cutting  tbe^ 
into  pieces  about  as  big  as  a  large  nutmeg ;  take  savoury, 
or  lemon^thyme  dried  and  finely-powderec^  nutmeg  grated, 
and  pei^r  and  salt,  and  pound  them  all  together;  beat  up 
an  eggf  dip  the  brains  in  it,  and  then  roll  them  in  this  mix- 
ture, and  make  as  much  of  it  as  possible  stick  tathem ;  dip 
them  in  the  egg  again,  and  then  in  finely-grated  and  sifted 
bread-crumbs ;  fry  them  in  hot  fat,  and  send  them  up  as  a 
side-dish. 

A  veal  sweetbread,  prepared  as  in  No.  89,  not  too  much 
done  or  it  will  break,  cut  into  pieces  the  same  size  as  you 
cut  the  calfs  head,  and  put  in  the  soup,  just  to  get  warm 
before  it  goes  to  table,  is  a  siqierb  **  bonne  boucke ;"  and 
pickled  tongue,  stewed  till  very  tender,  and  cut  into  mouth- 
fuls,  is  a  favourite  addition.  We  order  the  meat  to  be  cut 
into  mouthfuls,  that  it  may  be  eaten  with  a  spoon ;  the  knife 
and  fork  have  no  business  in  a  soup-plate. 

%*  Some  of  our. culinary  contemporaries  Order  the  haul 
godt  of  this  (as  above  directed,  sufficiently  relishing)  soup 

[Very  fine  fat  tcutleB  are  brought  to  New- York  fiom  tbe  West  Indies ;  audi  dwrfng 
tlie  warm  weather,  kept  in  crawJs  till  wanted:  of  these  they  make'soupi  vbicJi 
sarpasses  any  mock  turtle  ever  made   A.] 

T8 


222  BB0TH8,  f»RAVI£fl»  AUD  flOfTFS. 

to  be  combustibled  and  bedevilled  with  a  copious  addition 
of  anchoriesy  mushroomsy  truffles,  morelles,  cunry-powder; 
artichoke  bottoms,  salmon's  head  and  liver,  or  the  soft  part 
of  oysters  or  lobsters,  soles  cut  in  mouthfuls,  a  bottle  of 
Madeira,  a  pint  of  brandy,  '&c. ;  and  to  complete  their  sur- 
feiting and  Dum-gallet  oiio«  they  put  in  such  a  tremendous 
<{uantity  of  Cayenne  pepper,  that  only  a  fire-proof  palate, 
Imed  with  asbestos,  or  indurated  by  Indian  diet,  can  endure* 
it.    See  note  under  No.  493. 

N.B.  In  helping  this  soup,  the  distributer  of  it  should 
serve  out  the  meat,  forcemeat,  and  gravy,  in  equal  parts ; 
Jbowever  trifling  or  needless  this  remark  may  appear,  the 
writer  has  often  suffered  from  the  want  of  such  a  nint  being 
given  to  the  soup-server,  who  has  sometimes  sent  a  plate 
of  mere  gravy  without  meat,  at  others,  of  meat  without 
gravy,  and  sometimes  scarcely  any  thing  but  forcemeat 
balls. 

Obs*  This  is  a  delicious  soup,  within  the  reach  of  those 
who  "  eat  to  live ;"  but  if  it  had  been  composed  expressly 
for  those  who  only  "  live  to  eat,"  I  do  not  know  how  it  coidd 
have  been  made  more  agreeable :  as  it  is,  the  lover  of  good 
eating  will  **  wish  his  throat  a  mile  long,  and  every  inch  of 
it  palate." 

N.B.  Cucumber  in  a  side-plate  is  a  laudable  vegetable 
accompaniment. 

Engliih  TuHle.^No.  948.) 
See  No.  502.    "  A-la-mode  beef." 

Curry,  or  MttUaga-tawny*  Soup* — (No.  249.) 

Cut  four  pounds  of  a  breast  of  veal  into  pieces,  about  two 
inches  by  one ;  put  the  trimmings  into  a  stew-pan  with  two 
quarts  of  water,  with  twelve  corns  of  black  pepper,  and  the 
same  of  allspice ;  when  it  boils,  skim  it  clean,  and  let  it  boil 
an  hour  and  a  half,  then  strain  it  off;  while  it  is  boiling,  fry 
of  a  nice  brown  in  butter  the  bits  of  veal  and  four  onions ; 
when  they  are  done^  put  the  broth  to  them ;  put  it  on  the  fire ; 
when  it  boils,  skim  it  clean ;  let  it  dimmer  half  an  hour ;  then 

*  Muttaga-tavmy  signifieB  pepper  water.  The  progren  of  inexperienced  patl- 
pttetie  paladciam'has  lately  been  aireated  by  theaepatlandish  worda  being  paited 
on  tbe  windows  of  our  coffee-bouses.  It  has,  we  believe,  answered  the  "  TMttutra- 
ieur^s**  purpose,  and  often  excited  Johh  Bvli.  to  walk  in  and  taste:  the  mors 
familiar  name  of  curry  soup  would,  perhaps,  not  have  bad  sufficient  of  the  charms 
of  ^noveltv  to  seduce  him  from  his  much-loved  mock  turtle. 

It  is  a  tashionable  soup,  and  a  great  fhvourife  with  our  East  Indian  fl-iend^  and 
we  give  the  best  receipt  we  could  procure  for  it. 


BROTHS,  GBAVISSy  AND  50UF8.  223 

mix  two  spoonfuls  of  curry,  and  the  same  of  flour,  with  a 
little  cold  water  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt ;  add  these  to  the 
soup,  and  simmer  it  gfently  till  the  veal  is  qiiite  tender,  and 
it  is  ready;  or  hone  a  couple  of  Towls  or  rabbits,  and  stew 
them  in  tne  manner  directed  ahove  for  the  veal,  and  you  may 
put -in  a  bruised  eschalot,  and  some  mace  and  ginger,  instead 
of  black  pepper  and  allspice. 
Obs.  Read  No.  497. 

Turde*  Sbfi;?.-;(No.  250.) 

As  it  is  our  wish  that  this  work  should  be  given  to  the 
public  at  the  lowest  possible  price,  the  receipt  for  dressing 
a  turtle  is  taken  out,  as  a  professed  cook  is  always  hired  for 
the  purpose  of  dressing  it.  The  space  this  long  receipt  oc« 
cupied  is  now  filled  With  directions  for  making  useful  pickles* 
See  No.. 462. 


"> 


Portable^  Soup,  or  Cr/are.— (No.  252.) 


Desire  the  butcher  to  break  the  bones  of  a  leg  or  a  shin 
of  beef,  of  ten  pounds  weight  (the  fresher  killed  the  better) ; 
put  it  into  a  soup-pot  (a  digester];  is  the  best  utensil  for  this 
purpose]^  that  will  well  hold  it ;  just  cover  it  with  cold  water, 
and  set  it  on  the  fire  to  heat  gradually  till  it  nearly  boils 
(this  should  be  at  least  an  hour) ;  skim  it  attentively  while 

*  "  The  usual  allowance  at  a  turtle  feaat  is  sU  pounds  live  weigbt  per  head :  at 
th^  Spanish  dinner,  at  the  City  of  London  Tavern,  in  August,  180S,  400  guests 
attended,  and  3500  pounds  of  turtle  were  consumed.**— See  Bsll's  fFeeUy  Mw 
^finger  for  August  7thf  180a 

Efietare  Qdin  used  to  s^y,  it  was ''  not  safe  to  sit  down  to  a  turtle  feast  at  one  of 
the  City  Halls,  without  a  basket-hilted  knife  and  fork." 

We  recommend  our  friends,  before  encountering  such  a  temptation,  to  read  our 
peptic  precepts.  Nothing  is  more  difficult  of  digestion,  or  ofteiier  requites  the  aid 
of  peristaltic  persuaders,  than  the  glutinous  callipash  which  is  considered  the  "  bonn^ 
ieuche**  of  this  soup.    Turtle  is  generally  spoiled  by  being  over-dressed. 

[In  Philadelphia,  an  excellent  turtle  soup  is  made  of  a  small  native  tortoisefCallMl^ 
a  terrt^in,  aoid  the  article  terrapin  Mup-    A.] 

t  "  4  pound  of  meat  contains  about  an  ounce  of  gelatinous  matter ;  it  thence 
fidlows,  that  1500  pounds  of  the  samegfneat,  which  is  the  whole  weight  of  a  bullock, 
would  give  only  94  pounds,  which  might  fa^  easily  contained  in  an  earthen  jar."— 
Dr.  HuTTOK^s  RationtU  Recreatunu,  V(ri.  iv.  p.  104. 

In  what  d^ree  portable  or  other  soup  be  nutritious,  we  know  not,  but  refer  the 
leader  to  our  note  under  No.  185*. 

t  This  machine  was  invented  by  Dr.  Denys  Fapin,  F.R.S.,  about  the  year  1631, 
as  a]^>ears  by  his  essay  on  "  Tke  Jfew  Digester,  or  Engine  for  Softening  Bonee  ;" 
*'  by  the  help  of  which  (be  says)  the  oldest  and  hardest  cow^'beef  may  De  made  as 
tender  and  as  savoury  as  young  and  clioice  meat." 

Although  wcLhave  not  yet  found  that  they  do  what  Dr.  Papin  says,  "  make  old 
and  tough  meat  vonng  and  tender,"  th^  are,  however,  excellent  things  to  make 
broths  and  soups  in.  Among  a  multitude  of  other  admirable  excellencies  obtainaida 
by  his  digester,  Dr.  Papin,  in  his  9th  chapter,  page  54,  on  the  profit  that  a  goo<9 
engine  may  come  to,  says,  "  I  have  found  that  an  old  hat^  very  bad  and  loosely 
mule,  having  imbibed  the  Jelly  of  bones  became  very  firm  and  stiff.'* 


224  nOTHS,  OXAVIS81  AKB  80UI8. 

any  scum  rises ;  pour  in  a  little  cold  water*  to  throw  up  the 
scum  that  may  remain ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil  again*  and  again 
skim  it  carefully:  when  no  more  scum  rises*  and.  the  brofh 
^spears  clear  (put  in  neither  roots*  nor  heri>s,  nor  sadt)*  let  it 
boil  for  eight  or  ten  hours,  and  then  strain  it  through  a  hair- 
sieve  into  a  brown  stone  pan;  set  the  broth  where  it  will 
cool  quicidy ;  put  the  meat  into  a  sieve*  let  it  drain*  make 
potted  beef  (No.  503)*  or  it  will  be  very. acceptable  to  many 
poor  families.  Next  day  remove  every  particle  of  fat  from 
the  top  of  it*  and  pour  it  through  a  tamis,  or  fine  sieve*  as 
quietly  as  possible*  into  a  stew-pan,  taking  care  .not  to  let 
any  of  the  settlings  at  the  bottom  of  the  stone  pan  go  into 
the  stew-pan*  which  should  be  of  thick  copper,  perfectiy  well 
tinned ;  add  a  <}uarter  of  an  ounce  of  whole  black  pepper  to 
it ;  let  it  boil  briskly*  with  the.stew-pan  uncovered,  on  a  quick 
file;  if  any  scum  rises*  take  it  off  with  a  skimmer:  when  it 
begins  to  thicken,  and  is  reduced  to  about  a  quart,  put  it  into 
a  smaller  stew-pan ;  set  it  over  a  gentler  fire,  till  it  is  reduced 
to  the  thickness  of  a  very  thick  syrup ;  take  care  that  it  does 
not  bum*  a  moment^s  inattention  now  wiU  lose  you  all  your 
labour*  and  the  soup  will  be  spoiled :  take  a  little  of  it  out  iu 
a  spoon  and  let  it  cool ;  if  it  sets  into  a  strong  jelly*  it  is  done 
enough ;  if  it  does  not,  boil  it  a  little  longer  till  it  does ;  have 
ready  some  little  ix>ts*  s)ich  as  are  used  for  potted  meats* 
about  an  inch  and  a  half  deep,  taking  care  that  they  are  quite 
dry ;  we  recommend  it  to  be  kept  in  these  pots,  if  it  is'for 
home  consumption  (the  less  it  is  reduced,  the  better  is  the 
flavour  of  the  soup)^  if  it  be  sufficiently  concentrated  to  keep 
for  six  months ;  if  you  wish  to  preserve  it  longer,  put  it  into 
such  bladders  as  are  used  for  German  sausages*  or  if  yoU 
prefer  it  in  the  form  of  cakes,  pour  it  into  a  dish  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  deep;  when  it  is  cold,  turn  it  out  and 
weigh  the  cake*  and  divide  it  with  a  paste-cutter  into  pieces 
of  tealf  an  ounce  and  an  ounce  each ;  place  them  in  a  warm 
room,  and  tmm  them  frequently  till  they  are  thoroughly 
dried ;  this  will  take  a  week  or  ten  days ;  turn  them  twice  a 
day ;  when  well  hardened,  and  kept  in  a  dry  place,  they  may 
bej^served  for  several  years  in  any  climate. 
.  This  extract  of  meat  makes  excellent  "toWctfe*  de  Bovil- 
lon^'*  for  those  who  are  obliged  to  endure  long  fastings 

If  the  sui^ace  becomes  mouldy,  wipe  it  with  a  little  warm 
water ;  the  nciouldy  taste  does  not  penetrate  the  mass. 

If,  alter  several  days*  drying*  it  does  not  become  so  haord 
as  ^u  wish*  put  it  into  a  bainmarie  stew-pan*  or  milk-boiler* 
till  it  is  evaporated  to  the  consistence  you  wish;  or,  set  the 
pots  in  a  cool  oven,  or  in  a  cheese<4oaster*  at  a  consideraMe 


SBOTESf  CttAVISSf  AMD  80VF8.  225 

distance  from  the  fire :  thia  is  the  only  safe  way  of  redocing 
it  very  much,  without  the  risk  of  its  burning,  and  acquiring 
an  extremely  disagreeable,  acrid  flavour,  &c. 
'  Obs.  The  uses  of  this  concentrated  essence  of  meat  axe 
numerous.  It  is  equally  economical  and  convenient  for 
making  extempore  broths  enumerated  in  the  Obs.  to  No* 
200,  sauces  and  gravies  for  hashed  or  stewed  meat,  game,  or 
poultry,  &c. 

You  may  thicken  it  and  flavour  it  as  directed  in  No.  329; 
to  make  gravy,  sauces,  &c.  take  double  the  quantity  ordered 
for  broth. 

If  you  have  time  tod  opportunity,  as  there  is  no  season- 
ing in  the  soup,  either  of  roots,  herbs,  or  spice,  boil  an  onion 
with  or  without  a  bit  of  parsley  and  sweet  lierbs,  and  a  few 
corns  of  allspice,  or  other  spice,  in  the  water  you  melt  Uie 
soup  in,  which  may  be  flavoured  with  mushroom  catchup 
(No.  439),  or  eschalot  wine  (No.  402),  essence  of  sweet 
herbs  (No.  417),  savoury  spice  (No.  421,  or  No.  467),  essence 
of  celery  (No.  409),  &c.  or  zest  (No.  255);  these  may  be 
combined  in  the  proportions  most  agreeable  to  the  palate  of 
the  eater,  and  are  as  portable  as  portable  soup,  for  a  very 
small  portion  will  flavour  a  pint» 

The  editor  adds  nothing  to  the  solution  of  this  soup,  but  a 
very  Uttle  ground  black  pepper  and  some  salt. 

N.B.  If  you  are  a  careful  manager,  you  need  not  always 
purchase  meat  on  purpose  to  make  this ;  when  you  dresa  a 
large  dinner,  you  can  make  glaze  at  very  small  cost,  by 
talung  care  of  the  trimmings  and  parings  of  the  meat,  game, 
and  poultry,  you  use :  wash  them  well,  put  them  into  a 
stew-pan,  cover  them  with  the  liquor  you  have  boiled  meat 
in,  and  proceed  as  in  the  above  receipt;  and  see  Obs,  on 
No.  185. 

Mkm.  This  portable  soup  is  a  most  convenient  article  in 
cookery ;  especially  in  small  families,  whe  reit  will  save  a 
great  deal  of  time  and  trouble.  It  is  also  economical,  for  no 
more  will  be  melted  than  is  wanted ;  so  there  is  no  waste. 

Nine  pounds  of  neck  of  beef,  costing  2s.  Ihd.  produced 
nine  ounces  of  very  nice  soup;  the  lK>nes,  when  boiled, 
weighed  ten  ounces. 

Half  an  ox-cheek,  costing  U.  9d.  and  weighing  I4i 
pounds,  produced  thirteen  ounces ;  but  not  so  firm  or  dear* 
and  far  inferior  in  flavour  to  that  obtained  fi^om  a  shin  of  foe^. 

A  sheep's  head,  costing  9d.,  produced  three  ounces  and  a 
half. 

Two  pounds  of  lean  meat,  from  the  blade-bone  of  beet* 
produced  hardly  an  ounce. 


MO  BB0TB8|    OBAVIE4,  AMD  80UP8. 

The  addition  of  an  ouiice  of  ffum  arabic,  and  two  ounces 
of  isinglass,  to  four  ounces  of  tne  extract  from  a  leg  of  beef, 
considerably  diminished  the  consistence  of  the  mass,  with- 
out adding  to  its  bulk. 

It  has  been  thought  that  the  portable  soup  which  is  manu- 
factured for  sale,  is  partly  made  with  ox-heels ;  but  the  ex- 
periment (No^  198)  proves  this  caninot  be,  as  an  ounce  of  the 
jelly  from  ox-heel  costs  5d.  For  the  cheapest  method  of 
procuring  a  hard  jelly,  see  N.B.  to  No.  481 ;  nineteen  bones, 
costing  4hd.  produced  three  ounces:  almost  as  cheap  as 
Salisbury  glue. 

A  knuekle  of  veal,  weighing  41  pounds,  and  costing  2s. 
id.  produced  five  ounces. 

A  shin  of  beef,  weighing  nine  pounds,  and  costing  Is. 
lOhd.  produced  nine  ounces  of  concentrated  soup,  sufficiently 
reduced  to  keep  for  several  months.  After  the  boiling,  the 
bones  in  this  joint  weighed  two  pounds  and  a  quarter,  and 
the  meat  two  pounds  and  a  quarter. 

The  result  of  these  experiments  is,  that  the  product  from 
legs  and  shins  of  beef  was  almost  as  large  in  quantity,  and 
of  much  superior  quality  and  flavour,  as  that  obtainea  from 
any  of  the  other  materials ;  the  flavour  of  the  product  from 
mutton,  veal,  &c.  is  comparatively  insipid. 

As  it  is  difficult  to  obtain  this  ready-made  of  good  Quality, 
and  we  could  not  find  any  proper  and  circumstantial  directions 
for  making  it,  which,  on  trial,  answered  the  purpose,  and  it 
is  really  a  great  acquisition  to  the  army  and  nav}^,  to. tra- 
vellers, invalids,  &c.  the  editor  has  bestowed  some  time,  &c. 
in  endeavouring  to  learn,  and  to  teach,  how  it  may  be  pre- 
pared in  the  easiest,  most  economical,  and  perfect  manner.' 

The  oisdinary  selling  pricfe  is  from  lOs.  to  12*.,  but  you 
may  make  it  according  to  the  above  receipt  for  3*.  6d.  per 
pound,  i,  e.  for  2\d,  per  ounce,  whicii  will  make  you  a  pint 
of  broth.- 

Those  who  do  not  regard  the  expense,  and  like  the  flavour, 
may  add  the  lean  of  ham,  in  the  proportion  of  a  pound  to 
eight  pounds  of  leg  of  beef. 

It  may  also  be  flavoured,  by  adding  to  it,  at  the  time  you 
put  the  broth  into  the  smaller  stew-pan,  mushroom  catchup, 
eschalot  wine,  essences  of  spice  or  herbs,  Uc. ;  we  prefer  it 
quite  plain ;  it  is  then  ready  to  be  converted,  in  an  instant, 
into  a  basin  of  beef  tea,  for  an  invalid,  and  any  flavour  may 
be  immediately  communicated  to  it  by  the  magazine  of 
taste  (No.  462). 


ORATIBS  AND  SA0CB8.  227 

To  clar^  Broih  or  Gnn7y.^(No.  253*.) 

Put  on  the  broth  in  a  clean  stew-pan ;  break  the  white  and 
fiiheU  of  an  egg,  beat  them  together,  put  them  into  the  broth, 
stir  it  with  a  vmisk ;  when  it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes,  strain 
it  through  a  tamis  or  a  napkin. 

Obs*  A  careful  cook  will  seldom  have  occasion  to  clarify 
her  broths,  &c.  if  prepared  according  to  the  directions  given 
in  No.  200. 


eilAVISS  AMD   8AUCB8.     - 

M^efl  Butter^ 

Is  so  simple  and  easy  to  prepare,  that  it  is  a  matter  of 
general  surprise,  that  what  is  done  so  often  in  every  English 
Kitchen,  is  so  seldom  done  right :  foreigners  may  well  say, 
that  although  we  have  only  one  sauce  for  vegetables,  fish, 
flesh,  fowl,  &c.  we  hardly  ever  make  that  good. 

It  is  spoiled  nine  times  out  of  ten,  more  from  idlene8^  than 
from  ignorance,  and  rather  because  the  cook  won't  than  b^ 
cause  she  canH  do  it;  which  can  only  be  the  case  when 
housekeepers  will  not  allow  butter  to  do  it  with. 

Good  melted  butter  cannot  be  made  with  mere  flour  and 
water;  there  must  be  a  full  and  proper  proportion  of  butter^ 
As  it  must  be  always  on  the  table,  and  is  the  foundation  of 
almost  all  our  English  saiices,  we  have, 

Melted  butter  and  oysters, 

parsley, 

-! anchovies,  "^ 

r- eggs, 

■  shrimps, 

.  lobsters, 

•  capers,  &c.  &c.  &c. 

I  have  tried  every  way  of  making  it ;  and  I  trust,  at  last, 
that  I  have  written  a  receipt,  which,  if  the  cook  will  care- 
fully observe,  she  will  constantly  succeed  in  giving  satis- 
faction. 

In  the  (quantities  of  the  varioiis  sauces  I  have  ordered,  I 
have  had  m  view  the  providing  for  a  family  of  half-a-dozen 
moderate  people^ 
Never  pour  sauce  over  meat,  or  even  put  it  into  the  dishj 


Jtt  GSATIXS  ASn  SAVOBS. 

however  well  made,  some  of  the  company  may  hare  an 
antipathy  to  it;  tastes  are  as  (Afferent  as  faces:  moreover, 
if  it  is  sent  lup  separate  in  a  boat,  it  will  keep  hot  longer, 
and  what  is  left  may  be  put  by  for  another  time,  or  used  for 
another  purpose. 

La$Uy,  Observe,  that  in  ordering  the  proportions  of  meat, 
butter,  wine,  spice,  &c.  in  the  following  receipts,  the  proper 
quantity  is  set  down,  and  that  a  less  quantity ^ijl  not  do ; 
and  in  some  instances  those  palates  which  have  been  used 
to  the  extreme  of  ptquanecj  will  require  additional  excite- 
ment.* If  we  have  erred,  it  has  been  on  the  right  side*  from 
an  anxious  wish  to  combine  economy  with  elegance,  and  the 
wholesome  with  the  toothsome. 

Melted  Butter. 

Keep  a  pint  stew-panf  for  this  purpose  only. 

Out  two  ounces  of  butter  into  little  bits,  that  it  may  melt 
more  easily,  and  mix  more  readily;  put  it  into  the  stew-pan 
with  a  larffe  tea^spoonful  (t.  e.  about  three  drachms)  of  Hour, 
(some  prefer  arrow-root,  or  potato  starch,  No.  448),  and  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  milk. 

WhsR  thoroughly  mixed,  add  six  tali^e-spoonfuls  of  water ; 
hold  it  over  the  fire,  and  shake  it  round  every  minute  (all  iihe 
while  the  same  way),  till  it  just  begins  to  skmsAer;  -^en  let 
it  stand  quietly  and  boil  i^.  It  shoidd  be  of  the  tMckaess 
of  good  cream. 

N.B.  Two  table-spoonfuls  of  No.  439,  instead  of  the  milk, 
will  make  as  good  mushroom  ^  sauce  as  need  be,  and  is  a 
superlative  accompaniment  to  either  fis^  flesh,  or  fowL 

Ohs.  This  is  the  best  way  of  preparing  melted  butter; 
milk  mixes  with  the  butter  much  more  easuy  and  more  inti- 
mately than  water  alone  can  be  made  to  do.  This  is  of 
proper  thickness  to  be  mixed  at  table  with  flavouring  essences, 

*  Tbis  may  be  easily  accomplislied  by  the  aid  of  that  whip  and  spar,  which  stu- 
dents of  long  standing  in  the  school  of  good  ttving  are  generally  so  fond  of  enliyeniAg 
their  palates  with,  i  e.  Cayenne  and  garlic.  ~ 

Parsley  (No.  281),  chervil  (No.  364),  celery  (No.  289),  weaa  (No.  3W*),  tarrafoii 
(No.  396),.bamet  (No.  399),  basil  (No.  397).  eschalot  (Nob.2»5  and  4»),  caper  (Woa. 
974  and  9»5),  fennel  (No.  265),  liver  (Nos.  367  and  S6S),  curry  (Nos,  348  aad  4fin, 
ett.  (No.  267.)  DHisbntom  (No.  403),  anchovy  (Noa.  270  and  433),  raooOt  (Noa.  42i 
and  457),  shrimp  (No.  283),  bonne  bouche  (No.  341,)  sQperlaifve  (No.  IS9),  aad 
vuious  flavouring  essences.    See  from  No.  396  to  403. 

Any  of  Qie  above  vegetaUea,  Aco.  may  be  minced  very  finely,  and  sent  to  taU#  on 
alittleplate,  and  those  who  like  their  flavour  may  mix  them  with  melted  butter, 
Ac.  TbiB  Is  a  hint  for  economists,  wUch  will  save  tbefn  many  pounds  of  ratter, 
&c.    See  MsM.  to  No.  256. 

t  A  sliver  saucepan  ia  infinitely  the  best :  you  may  have  one  big  enough  to  melt 
batter  for  a  modentte  fiimily,  for  four  or  five  pounds. 


GKATXBS  AND    flAZrC».  9g9 

anchovy,  musfaioom,  or  es^vice,  ^.  If  made  merely  to  pour 
over  vegetables,  add  a  little  more  milk  to  it. 

N.B.  If  the  butter  oils,  put  a  spoonful  of  cold  water  to  it, 
and  stir  it  with  a  spoon ;  ir  it  i&  very  much  oiled,  it  nuBt  be 
poured  backwaftls  and  forwards  from  the  stew-paa  to  the 
sauce-boat  till  it  is  right  again. 

Mem.  Melted  butter  made  to  be  mixed  with  flavouring 
essences,  catchups,  &c.  should  be  of  the  thickness  of  light 
batter,  that  it  may  adhere  to  the  fish,  &c. 

Tfe'c^ewfig'.— (No.  257.) 

Clarified  butter  is  best  for  this  purpose ;  but  if  you  have 
none  ready,  put  some  fresh  butter  into  a  stew-pan  over  a 
slow,  clear  fire ;  when  it  is  melted,  add  fine  flour  sufficient  to 
make  it  the  thickness  of  paste ;  stir  it  well  toother  with  a 
wooden  spoon  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  tdl  it  is  quite 
smooth,  and  the  colour  of  a  guinea :  this  must  be  done  very 
gradualljr  and  patiently;  if  you  put  it  over  too  fierce  a  fire  to 
hurry  it,  it  will  become  bitter  and  empyreumatic :  pour  it  into 
an  earthen  pan,  and  keep  it  for  use.  It  will  keep  good  a 
fortnight  in  summer,  and  longer  in  winter. 

A  larffc- spoonful  will  generally  be  enough  to  thicken  a 
quart  of  gravy. 

Obs.  This,  in  the  Freiieh  kitchen,  is  called  roux.  Be  par- 
ticulaarly  attentive  in  making  it ;  if  it  gets:  any  burnt  smell 
or  taste,  it  will  spoil  every  thing  it  is  put  into,  see  06«.  to 
Nq.  3^.  When  cold,  it  snoidd  be  thick  enough  to  cut  out 
with  a  knife,  like  a  solid  paste. 

,  It  is  a  very  essential  article  m  the  kitchen,  and  is  the  basis 
of  consistency  in  most  made-dishes,  soups,  sauces,  and 
ragouts ;  if  the  gravies,  &c.  are  too  thin,  add  this  thickening, 
more  or  less,  according  ta  the  consistence  you  would  wish 
them  to  have. 

Mem.  In  making  thickening,  the  less  butter,  and  the  more 
flour  you  use,  the  better;  they  must  be  thoroughly  worked 
together,  and  the  broth,  or  soup,  &c.  you  put  them  to,  added 
by  degrees :  take  especial  care  to  incorporate  them  well  toge- 
ther, or  your  sauces,  &c.  will  taste  floury,  and  have  a  dis- 
gusting, greasy  appearance :  therefore,  after  you  have  thick- 
ened your  dauce,  aad  to  it  some  broth,  or  warm  water,  in  the 
proportion  of  two  table-spoonfuls  to  a  pint,  and  set  it  by  the 
side  <^  the  fire,  to  raise  any  fat,  &c.  that  is  not  thoroughly 
incorporated  with  the  gravy,  which  you  vamt  carefully 
remove- as  it  comes  to  the  top.  This  is  called  cleansing,  or 
finidiing  tiie  dauce. 

U 


'230  GSAVXB8  AND  8AVCBS. 

%*  Half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a.table-spoonfu]  of  flour» 
are  about  the  proportion  for  a  pint  of  sauce  to  ibake  it  as 
thick  as  cream. 

N.B.  The  fat  skimmings  off  the  top  of  the  broth  pot  are 
sometimes  substituted  for  butter  (see  No.  240) j  aovfie  cooks- 
merely  thicken  their  soups  and  sauces  with  flour,  as  we  have 
directed  in  No.  245,  or  potato  farina.  No.  448. 

OariJUd  Butter.— (No.  259.) 

Put  the  butter  in  a  nice,  clean  stew-pan,  over  a  very  clear, 
slow  fire ;  watch  it,  and  when  it  is  melted,  carefully  skim  off 
the  buttermilk,  &;c.  which  will  swim  on  the  top ;  let  it  stand 
a  minute  or  two  for  the  impurities  to  sink  to  the  bottom ; 
then  pour  the  clear  butter  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  basin,' 
leaving  the  sediment  at  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan. 

06».  Butter  thus  purified  will  be  as  sweet  as  marrow,  a 
very  useful  covering  for  potted  meats,  &c.,  and  for  fr3ingfish 
equal  to  the  finest  Florence  oil;  for  which  purpose  it  is  com- 
monly used  by  Ca^iolics,  and  those  whose  religious  tenets 
wiU  not  allow  them  to  eat  viands  fried  in  animal  oil. 

Burnt  Butter.— (No.  260.) 

Put  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  into  a  small  frying-pan ; 
when  it  becomes  a  dark  brown  colour,  add  to  it  a  table- 
spoonful  and  a  half  of  good  vinegar,  and  a  little  pepper  and 
salt. 

Obs.  This  is  used  as  sauce  for  b<nled  fish,  or  poached  eggs. 

OOed  Butter.— (No.  260».) 

Put  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  into  a  saucepan;  set  it  at 
a  distance  from  the  fire,  so  that  it  may  melt  gradually,  till  it 
comes  to  an  oil;  and  pour  it  off  quietly  from  the  dregs. 

Obs,  This  will  supply  tiie  place  of  olive  oil ;  and  by  some 
is  preferred  to  it  either  for  salads  or  frying. 

Parsley  and  BuUer.^l^o.  26 1.) 

Wash  some  parsley  very  clean,  and  pick  it  carefully  leaf  : 

by  leaf;  put  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  into  half  a  pint  of  boiling  J 

water:  boil  the  parsley  about  ten  minutes;  drain  it  on  a  ' 

sieve ;  mince  it  quite  fine,  and  then  bruise  it  to  a  pulp. 

The  delicacy  and  excellence  of  this  elegant  and  innocent 
relish  depends  upon  the  parsley  being  minced  very  fine :  put 
it  into  a  sauce-boat,  and  mix  with  it,  by  degrees,  about  haUT  a 
pint  of  good  melted  butter  (No.  256) ;  oidy  do  not  piit  so 


much  flour  to  it,  as  the  parsley  will  add  to  its  thickness : 
never  pour  parsley  and  butter  over  boiled  things,  but  s^^nd  it 
up  in  a  boat. 

Obs.  tn  French  cookery-books  this  is  called  '^  melted  butter, 
English  fashion;''  and,  with  the  addition  of  a  slice  of  lemon 
cut  into  dice,  a  little  allspice  and  vinegar,  ^  Dutch  sauce/* 

N.B.  To  preserve  parsley  through  the  winter:  in  May, 
June,  or  July,  take  fine  fresh-gathered  sprigs ;  pick,  and  wash 
them  clean ;  set  on  a  stew-pan  half  full  of  water;  put  a  little 
salt  in  it ;  boil,  and  skim  it  clean,  and  then  put  in  the  parsley, 
and  let  it  boil  for  a  couple  of  minutes;  take  it  out,  and 
lay  it  on  a  sieve  before  the  fire,  that  it  may  be  dried  as  quick 
as  possible ;  put  it  by  in  a  tin  box,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  place : 
when  you  want  it,  lay  it  in  a  basin,  and  Cover  it  with  warm 
water  a  few  minutes  before  you  use  it. 

Gooseberry  Sauce*. — (No.  263.) 

Top  and  tail  them  close  with  a  pair  of  scissors,  and  scald 
half  a  pint  of  green  gooseberries ;  drain  them  on  a  hair-sieve, 
and  put  them  into  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter.  No.  356. 

Some  add  grated  ginger  and  lemon-peel,  and  the  French, 
minced  fennel;  others  send  up  the  gooseberries  whole  or 
mashed,  without  any  butter,  &c. 

ChervU,  Basils  Tarragon,  Burnet^  Cress,  and  Butter, — (No.  264.) 

This  is  the  first  time  that  chervil,  which  has  so  long  been 
a  favourite  with  the  sagacious  French  cook,  has  been  intro- 
duced into  an  English  book.  Its  flavour  is  a  strong  concen- 
tration of  the  combined  taste  of  parsley  and  fennel,  l)ut  more 
aromatic  and  agreeable  than  either;  and  is  an  excellent 
sauce  with  boiled  poultry  or  fish.  Prepare  it,  &c.  as  ^e  have 
directed  for  parsley  and  butter.  No.  261. 

Fennel  and  Butter  for  Mackerel,  4rc — (No.  265.) 

■>  .         ■        I. 

Is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  we  have  just  described 
in  No.  261. 

r  069*  For  mackerel  sauce,  or  boiled  soles,  &c.,  some  people 
take  equal  parts  of  fennel  and  parsley ;  others  add  a  sprig  of 
mint«  or  a  couple  of  young  onions  minced  very  fine. 

Mackerd-roe  Satice.— {No.  266.) 

Boil  the  roes.of  mackerel  (soft  roes  are  best) ;  bruise  them 
with  a  spoon  with  the  yelk  of  an  egg,  beat  up  with  a  very 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  some  fennel  and  parsley  boiled 


232  OBAVlfiS   AKD   8AirGfi8.  . 

and  chopped  very  fine,  mixed  .with  almost  half  a  pint. of  tliin 
melted  butter.    See  No.  256« 
Mushroom  catchup,  walnut  pickle,  qx  soy  may  be  added. 

Egg  iS(atte*.--(No.  267.) 

This  agreeable  accompaniment  to  roasted  poultry,  or  salted 
ilsh,  is  n^e  by  putting  three  eggs  into  boiling  water,  and 
boiling  them  for  about  twelve  minutes,  when  they  will  be 
hard;  put  them  into  cold  water  till  you  want  them.  This 
will  make  the  yelks  firmer,  and  prevent  their  surface  turning 
black,  and  you  can  cut  them  much  neater :  use  only  two  of 
the  whites ;  cut  the  whites  into  small  dice,  the  yelks  into 
bits  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  square ;  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
t)oat ;  pour  to  them  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  and  stir 
ihem  together. 

Obs.  The  melted  butter  for  egg  sauce  need  not  be  made 
quite  so  thick  as  No.  256.  If  you  are  for  superlative  egg 
sauce,  pound  the  yelks  of  a  couple  of  eggs,  9nd  rid>  them 
with  the  melted  butter  to  thicken  it. 

N.B.  Some  cooks  garnish  salt  fish  with  hard-boiled  eggs 
cut  in  half. 

Plum-pudding  iS(Q(uce.-»(No.  269.) 

A  glass  of  sherry,  half  a  glass  of  brandy  (or  *'  cherry- 
bounce"),  or  Cura9oa  (No.  474),  or  essence  of  punch  (Nos. 
471  and  479),  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  pounded  lump  sugar 
(a  very  little  grated  lemon-peel  is  sometimes  added),  in  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  thick  melted  butter :  grate  nutmeg  on 
the  top. 

See  Pudding  Catchup,  No.  446. 

j3nc/bx;y  Slttttcd.— (No.  270.) 

Pound  three  anchovies  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  bit  of 
butter;  rub  it  through  a  double  hair-sieve  with  the  back  of  a 
wooden  spoon,  and  stir  it  into  almost  half  a  pint  of  melted 
butter  (No.  256) ;  or  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  essence  of 
anchovy.  No.  433.  To  the  above,  many  cooks  add  lemon- 
juice  and  Cayenne. 

Obs.  Foreigners  make  this  sauce  with  good  brown  ^axice 
(No.  329),  or  white  sauce  (No.  364) ;  instead  of  melted  butter, 
add  to  it  catchup,  soy,  ana  some  of  their  flavoured  vinegars, 
(as  elder  or  tarragon),  p^per  and  fine  spice,  sweet  h^s, 
capers,  eschalots,  &e.  They  serve  it  with  most  roasted 
meats. 


N.B.  Keep  yom  anchovies  weU  covered ;  firsi  tie  down 
your  jar  with  bladder  moistened  with  vinegar,  and  then  wiped 
ory ;  tie  leather  over  that :  when  you  open  a  jar,  moisten  the 
bladder,  and  it  will  come  off  easily ;  as  soon  as  you  have 
taken  out  the  fish,  replace  the  coverings ;  the  air  soon  rusts 
and  spoils  anchovies.    See  No.  433,  &c. 

r 

GaHic  &wice.— (No.  272.) 

Pound,  two  cloves  of  garlic  with  a  piece  of  fresh  butter, 
about  as  big  as  a  nutmeg ;  rub  it  through  a  double  hair-sieve, 
and  stir  it  into-half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  or  beef  gravy  or 
make  it  with  garlic  vinegar,  Nos.  400,  401,  and  402. 

Lemon  Sauce, — (No.  273.) 

Pare  a  lemon,  and  cut  it  into  slices  twice  as  thick  as  a 
half-crown  piece ;  divide  these  into  dice,  and  put  them  into  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  melted  butter.  No.  256. 

Obs, — Some  cooks  mince  a  bit  of  the  lemon-peel  (pared 
very  thin)  very  fine,  and  add  it  to  the  above. 

Caper  iSawce.-^No.  274„    See  also  No.  295.) 

.  To  make  a  quarter  of  a  pint)  take  a  table-spoouAil  of 
capers,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

The  present  fashion  of  cuttinp  capers  is  to  mince  one-third 
of  them  very  fine,  and  divide  me  others  in  half;  put  them 
into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  or  good  thickened 
gravy  (No.  329);  stir  them  the  i^ame  way  as  you  did  the 
melted  butter,  or  it  ^ill  oil. 

0^8,— 'Some  boil,  and  mince  fine  a  few  leaves  of  parsley, 
or  chervil,  or  tarragon,  and  add  these  to  the  sauce ;  others 
the  juice  of  half  a  Seville  orange,  or  lemon. 

Mem. — Keep  the  caper  bottle  very  closely  corked,  and  do 
not  use  any  of  the  caper  liquor :  if  the  capers  are  not  well 
covered  with  it,  they  will  immediately  spoil ;  and  it  is  an 
excellent  ingredient  in  hashes,  &c.  .  The  Dutch  use  it  as  a 
flsh  sauce,  mixing  it  with  melted  butter. 

Mock  Caper  iSowice.— (No.  275,  or  No.  295.) 

Cut  some  pickled  green  pease,  French  beans,  gherkins,  or 
nasturtiums,  into  bits  the  size  of  capers ;  put  them  into  hadf 
a  pint  of  melted  butter,  with  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  lemon* 
juice,  or  nice  vinegar. 

U2 


234  OBAVIB8  AND  BAVCES. 

Oy$ter  jSoutctf.— <No.  278.) 

Choose  plump  and  juicy  natives  for  this  purpose :  don't 
take  them  out  or  their  sheU  till  you  put  them  into  the  stew- 
pan,  see  Ohs.  to  No.  181. 

To  make  good  oyster  sauce  for  half  a  dozen  hearty  fish- 
eaters,  you  cannot  have  less  than  three  or  four  dozen  oysters. 
Save  their  liquor;  strain  it«  and  put  it  and,  them  into  a 
stew-pan :  as  soon  as  they  boil,  and  the  fish  plump,  take  them 
off  the  fire,  and  pour  the  contents  of  the  stew-pan  into  a 
sieve  over  a  clean  basin ;  wash  the  stew-pan  out  with  hot 
water,  and  put  into  it  the  strained  liquor,  with  about  an  equal 
quantity  of  milk,  and  about  two  ounceB  and  a  half  of  butter, 
with  wnich  you  have  well  rubbed  a  large  table-spoonful  of 
flour ;  ^ve  it  a  boil  up,  and  pour  it  thitough  a  sieve  into  a 
basin  fthat  the  sauce  may  be  quite  smooth),  and  then  back 
again  into  the  saucepan;  nowshav^  the  oysters,  and  (if  you 
have  the  honour  of  making  sauce  for  "  a  committee  of  taste," 
take  away  the  gristly  part  also)  put  in  only  the  soft  part  of 
them :  if  they  are  very  large,  cut  thein  in  half,  and  set 
them  by  the  fire  to  keep  hot:  "if  they  boil  after,  they 
will  become  hard." 

If  you  have  not  liquor  enough,  add  a  little  melted  butter, 
or  cream  (see  No.  388),  or  milk  beat  up  with  the  yelk  of  an 
egg  (this  must  not  be  put  in  till  the  sauce  is  done).  Some 
barbarous  cooks  add  pepper,  or  mace,  the  juice  or  peel  of  a 
lemon,  horseradish,  essence  of  anchovy,  Cayenne,  &c.: 
plain  sauces  are  only  to  taste  of  the  ingredient  from  which 
they  derive  their  name. 

Ohs. — It  will  very  much  heighten  the  flavour  of  this  sauce 
to  pound  the  soft  part  of  half  a  dozen  (unboiled)  oystersj  / 
rub  it  through  a  hair-sieve,  and  then  stir  it  into  the  sauce : 
this  essence  of  oyster  (and  for  some  palates  a  few  grains 
of  Cayenne)  is  the  omy  addition  we  recommend.  Seo 
No.  441. 

Preserved  Oy»te«.*— (No.  280.) 

Open  the  oysters  carefully,  so  as  not  to  cut  them  except 
in  dividing  the  gristle  which  attaches  the  shells  ;  put  them 
into  a  mortar,  and  when  you  have  got  as  many  as  you  can 
conveniently  pound  at  once,  add  about  two.  drachms  of  salt 
to  a  dozen  oysters ;  pound  them,  and  rub  them  through  the 

*  Oystersi  whlph  ooow  to  the  New-York  market,  are  too  large  atad  fine  to  be 
manfBled  according  to  this  receipt.  They  are  generally  cooked  by  being  fried  or 
stewed.  When  they  are  intended  to  be  kept  a  longth  of  time,  tfiey  are  pickled  in 
vinegar,  with  spices.    A, 


OBAVtBS  AND  SAUCES.  236 

back  of  a  hair-iteve,  aadput  thepi  into  a  mortar  affaiOy  with 
as  much  flour  (which  has  been  previously  thoroughly  dried) 
as  will  make  them  into  a  paste ;  roll  it  out  several  times,  and, 
lastly,  flour  it,  and  roll  it  out  the  thickness  of  a  half-crown, 
and  divide  it  into  pieces  about  an  inch  square ;  lay  them  in  a 
Dutch  oven,  where  they  will  dry  so  gently  as  not  to  get 
burnt :  turn  them  every  half  hour,  and  when  they  begin  to 
dry,  crumble  them ;  they  will  take  about  four  hours  to  dry ; 
then  pound  them  fine,  sift  them,  and  put  them  into  bottles, 
and  seal  th^em  over. 

N.B.  Three  dozen  of  natives  required  74  ounces  of  dried 
flour  to  make  them  into  a  paste,  which  then  weighed  11 
ounces ;  when  dried  and  powdered,  64  ounces. 

To  make  half  a  pint  of  sauce,  put  one  ounce  of  butter 
into  a  stew-pan  with  three  drachms  of  oyster  powder,  and 
six  table-spoonfuls  of  milk ;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire ;  stir  it  till 
it  boils,  £Mid  season  it  with  salt. 

This  powder,  if  made  with  plmnp,  juicy  natives,  will  abound 
with  the  flavour  of  the  fish ;  and  if  closely  corked,  and  kept 
in  a  dry  place,  will  remain  good  for  some  time. 

Obs, — This  extract  is  a  welcome  succedaneum  while 
oysters  are  out  of  season,  and  in  such  inland  parts  as  seldom 
have  any,  is  a  valuable  addition  to  the  list  of  fish  sauces : 
it  is  equally  good  with  boiled  fowl,  or  rump  steak,  and 
sprinkled  on  bread  and  butter  makes  a  very  good  sandwich, 
and  is  especially  worthy  the  notice  of  country  housekeepers, 
and  as  a  store  sauce  for  the  army  and  navy.  See  Anchovy 
Powder,  No.  435. 

Shrimp  jSotttcc— (No,  283.) 

Shell  a  pint  of  shrimps ;  pick  them  clean,  wash  them,  and 
put  them  into  half  a  pint  of  good  melted  butter.  A  pint  of 
unshelled  shrimps  is  about  enough  for  four  persons. 

06s. — Some  stew  the  heads  and  shells  of  the  shrimps, 
(with  or  without  a  blade  of  bruised  mace,)  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  and  strain  oflf  the  liquor  to  melt  the  butter  with, 
and  add  a  little  lemon-juice,  Cayenne,  and  essence  of 
anchovy,  or  soy,  cavice,  &c. ;  but  the  tlavour  of  the 
shrimp  is  so  delicate,  that  it  will  he  overcome  by  any  such 
additions. 

Mem. — If  your  shrimps  are  not  quite  fresh,  they  will  eat 
tough  and  thready,  as  other  stale  fish  do.  See  Obs,  to 
No.  140» 


236  OBAVUS  ASD  a^ucxs* 

I 

LobiUr  &iiM».-^No.  984.) 

Choose  a  fine  spawny  hen  lobster;*  be  sure  it  is  fresh,  so 
get  a  live  one  if  you  can,  (one  of  my  culinary  predecessors 
says,  "  let  it  be  heavy  and  lively,")  and  boil  it  as  No.  176 ; 
pick  out  the  spawn  and  the  red  coral  into  a  mortar,  add  to  it 
half  an  ounce  of  butter,  pound  it  quite  smooth,  and  rub  it 
through  a  hair-sieve  with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon ;  cut 
the  meat  of  the  lobster  into  small  squares,  or  pull  it  to  pieces 
with  a  fork ;  put  the  pounded  spawn  into  as  much  melted 
butter  (No.  256)  as  you  think  will  do,  and  stir  it  togethertill 
it  is  thorouglUy  mixed ;  now  put  to  it  the  meat  of  the  lobster, 
and  warm  it  on  the  fire ;  take  care  it  does  not  boil;  which 
will  spoil  its  complexion,  and  its  brilliant  red  colour,  will 
immediately  fade. 

The  aboveis  a  very  easy  and  excellent  manner  of  making 
this  sauce. 

Some  use  strong  beef  or  veal  gravy  instead  of  melted 
butter,  adding  anchovy,  Cayenne,  catchup,  cavice,  lemon- 
juice,  or  pickle,  or  wine,  &c. 

Obs. — Save  a  little  of  the  inside  red  coral  spawn,  and  rub 
it  through  a  sieve  (without  btttter) :  it  is  a  very  ornamental 
^mish  to  sprinkle  over  fish;  and  if  the  skin  is  broken, 
(which  will  sometimes  happen  to  the  most  careful  cook,  when 
there  is  a  large  dinner  to  dress,  and  many  other  things  to 
attend- to,)  you  will  find  it  a  convenient  and  elegant  veu,  to 
conceal  your  misfortune  from  the  prying  eyes  of  piscivorous 
gourmands, 

N.B.  Various  methods  have  been  tried  to  preserve  lob- 
sters, see  No.  178,  and  lobster  spawn,  for  a  store  sauce. 
The  lire  spawn  may  be  kept  some  time  in  strong  salt  and 
water,  or  in  an  ice-house. 

The  following  process  might,  perhaps,  preserve  it  longer. 
Put  it  into  a  saucepan  of  boHing  water,  with  a  large  spoonful 
of  salt  in  it,  and  let  it  boil  quick  for  five  minutes ;  then 
drain  it  on  a  hair-sieve ;  spread  it  out  thin  on  a  plate,  and 
set  it  in  a  Dutch  oven  till  it  is  thoroughly  dried ;  gnnd  it  in  a 
clean  mill,  and  pack  it  closely  in  well-stopped  bottles.  See 
also  Potted  Lobsters,  No.  178. 

^  You  mint  have  a  ben  lobster,  on  account  of  the  IWe  spawn.  Some  fiahmongen 
bave  a  cruel  cnstoiD  of  teaiinc  tbia  f^om  tbe  fish  before  they  are  boiled.  LUk  up 
the  tailor  tbe  lobster,  aad  see  that  It  hsa  not  been  robbed  of  ite  egn :  the  coodmss 
of  yonr  sance  depends  vpon  Us  haying  a  AiU  share  of  the  spawnin  it,  to  which  it 
owes  not  merely  its  brlllfant  red  colour,  but  the  finest  part  of  its  fiavoar. 


GRAVIES  AlTD  SAtCCtf.  ^? 

Sauce  for  I^«fer,>c.--{No.  286.'   See  also  No.  372.) 

Bruise  tlie  yelks  of  two  hard-boiled  e^gs  with  the  back  of 
a  wooden  spoon,  or  rather  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  with  a 
tea-spoonM  of  water,  and  the  soft  inside  and  the  spawn  of 
the  lobster ;  rub  them  quite  smooth,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of 
made  mustard,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  and  five  of 
vinegar ;  season  it  with  a  vety  little  Cayenne  pepper,  and 
some  salt. 

Ob$. — To  this,  elder  or  tarragon  vinegar  (No.  396),  or 
anchovy  essence  (No.  433),  is  occasionally  added. 

Liver  and  Parsley  Sauce, — (No.  2d7.)  or  Ldver  and  Leinati 

Sauce, 

Wash  the  liver  (it  must  be  perfectly  fresh)  of  a  fowl 
or  rabbit,  and  boil  it  five  minutes  in  five  table-spoonfuls 
of  water;  chop  it  fine,  or  pound  or  braise  it  in  a  small 
quantity  of  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  and  rub  it  through 
a  sieve :  wash  about  one-third  the  bulk  of  parsley  leaves, 
put  them  on  to  boil  in  a  little  boilmg  water,  with  a  tea- 
spoonfid  of  salt  in  it;  lay  it  on  a  hair-sieve  to  drain,  and 
mince  it  very  fine ;  mix  it  with  the  liver,  and  put  it  into  a 
quarter  pint  of  melted  butter,  and  warm  it  up;  do  not 
let  it  boil.    Or, 

To  make  Lemon  and  Lher  Sauce. 

Pare  off  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  or. of  a  Seville  orange,  as 
thin  as  possible,  so  as  not  to  cut  off  any  of  the  white  with 
it ;  now  cut  off  all  the  white,  and  cut  the  lemon  into  slices, 
about-  as  thick  as  a  eoui^ie  of  half-crowns;  pick  out  the 
pips,  and  divide  the  slices  into  small  squares :  add  these,  and 
a  little  of  the  peel  minced  very  fine  to  the  liver,  prepared  as 
directed  above,  and  put  them  into  the  melted  butter,  and 
warm  them  toge^er ;  but  do  not  let  them  boil. 

N.B.  The  poulterers  can  always  let  you  have  fresh  livers, 
if  that  of  the  fowl  or  rabbit  is  not  ^ood,  or  not  large  enough 
to  make  as  much  sauce  as  you  wish. 

Obs. — Some  cooks,  instead  of  pounding,  mince  the  liver 
very  fine  (with  half  as  much  bacon),  and  leave  out  the 
parsley ;  others  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,,  and  some  of 
the  peel  grated,  or  a  tea-spoonful  of  tarragon  or  Chili  vinegar, 
a  table-spoonful  of  white  wine,  or  a  httle  beaten  mace,  or 
nutmeg,  or  allspice :  if  you  wish  it  a  little  more  lively  on  the 
palate,  pound  an  eschalot,  or  a  few  leaves  of  tarragon  or 
basil,  with  anchovy,  or  catchup,  or  Cayenne. 


938  OBAVISS  AND  8AUOEB. 

JJver  Sauce  for  /M.— (No.  288.) 

Boil  the  livdr  of  the  fish,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  a 
little  flour ;  stir  it  into  some  broth,  or  some  of  the  liquor  the 
fish  was  boiled  in,  or  melted  butter,  parsley,  and  a  few  grains 
of  Cayenne,  a  little  essence  of  anchovy  (No.  433),  or  soy, 
or  catchup  (No.  439) ;  give  it  a  boil  up,  and  rub  it  through 
a  sieve :  you  may  add  a  little  lemon-juice,  or  lemon  cut 
in  dice. 
> 

Cdery  Sauce,  w^6.-- (No.  289.) 

Pick  and  wash  two  heads  of  nice  white  celery ;  cut  it  into 
pieces  about  an  inch  long ;  stew  it  in  a  pint  of  water,  and  a 
tea-spoonful  of  salt,  till  the  celery  is  tender  ;*  roll  an  ounce 
of  butter  with  a  table-spoonftd  of  flour ;  add  this  to  half  a 
pint  of  cream,,  and  give  it  a  boil  up. 

N.B.  See  No.  409. 

Celery  Sauce  Purie,  for  boiled  Turkey^  Veal,  Fowls,  ^c. 

(No.  290.) 

Cut  small  half  a. dozen  heads  of  nice  white  celery  that  is 
quite  clean,  and  two  onions  sliced ;  put  in  a  two-quart  stew- 
pan,  with  a  small  lump  of  butter;  sweat  them  over  a  slow 
fire  till  quite  tender,  then  put  in  two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  half 
a  pint  of  water  (or  beef  or  veal  broth),  salt  and  pepper,  and 
a  little  cream  or  milk ;  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  pass 
through  a  fine  hair-sieve  with  the  back  of  a  spoon. .. 

If  you  wi^  for  celery  sauce  when  celery  is  not  in  reason, 
a  quarter  of  a  drachm  of  celery-seed,  or  a  little  essence  of 
celery  (No.  409),  will  impregnate  half  a  pint  of  sauce  with  a 
sufllcient  portion  of  the  flavour  of  the  vegetable 

See  065.  to  No.  214. 

Green  or  Sorrel  Sixfice.— (No.  291.) 

Wash  and  clean  a  largre  ponnet  of  sorrel ;  put  it  into  a 
stew-pan  that  wiQ  just  hold  it,  with  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg ;  cover  it  close,  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  pass  the  sorrel  with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon 
through  a  hair-sieve,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  small 
])inch  of  powdered  sugar,  make  it  hot,  and  serve  up  under 

*  So  Biiich  dqwnds  upon  the  age  of  the  eelery.  that  we  cannot  give  any  preciie 
time  fi>r  thla.  Yoang,  nedi-gathered  celoy  wUibe  done  enoogh  In  three-qnarten 
of  an  hoar ;  old  will  aomeUnMa  take  twice  aa  long. 


GRAVIXS  ASD  aAVCBS.  239 

lamb,  veal,  sweetbreads,  &c.  &c.    Cayenne,  nutmeg,  and 
lemdn-juice  are  sometimes  added. 

TonuUa,  or  Love-apple  Sauce. — (No.  290.    See  alsaNo.  443.) 

Have  twelve  or  fifteen  tomatas,  ripe  and  red;  take  off  the 
sts^lk ;  cut  them  in  half;  squeeze  them  just  enough  to  get  all 
the  water  and  seeds  out;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a 
capsicum,  and  two  or  three  table-spoonfuls  of  beef  gravy ; 
set  them  on  a  slow  stove  for  an  hour,  or  till  properly  melted ; 
then  rub  them  through  a  tamis  into  a  clean  stew-pan,  with  a 
little  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  them  simmer  together  a 
few.  minutes. 

[Jjove-apple  Sauce  according  to  Ude» 

Melt  in  a  stew-pan  a  dozen  or  two  of-  love-apples  (which, 
before  putting  in  the  stew-pan,  cut  in  two,  and  squeeze  the 
juice  and  the  seeds  out) ;  then  put  two  eschalots,  one  onion, 
with  a  few  bits  of  ham,  a  clove,  a  little  thyme,  a  bay-leaf,  a 
few  leaves  of  mace,  and  when  melted,  rub  them  through  a 
tamis^ .  Mix  a  few  spoonfuls  of  good  Espagnole  or  Spanish 
sauce,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  with  this  pur6e.  Boil  it 
for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  up.    A.] 

Mock  Tomata  &i«cc.— (No.  293.) 

The  only  difference  between  this  and  genuine  love-apple 
sauce,  is  the  substituting  the  pulp  of  apple  for  that  of  tomata, 
colouripg  it  with  turmeric,  and  con^unicating  an  acid  flavour 
to  it  by  vinegar. 

Eschalot  Sauce.— {Sq.  294.) 

Take  four  eschalots,  and  make  it  in  the  same  manner  as 
garlic  sauce  (No.  272).    Or, 

You  may  make  this  sauce  more  extemporaneously  by  put- 
ting two  table-spoonfuls  of  eschalot  wine  (No.  403),  and  a 
sprinkling  of  peeper  and  salt,  into  (almost)  half  a  pint  of 
thick  melted  butter. 

Ob^. — This  is  an  excellent  sauce  for  chops  or  steaks; 
many  are  very  fond  of  it  with  roasted  or  boiled  meat, 
poultry,  &c. 

Eschalot  Sauce  for  boiled  Muitoiu^No.  S95.) 

This  is  a  very  frequent  and  satisfactory  substitute  for 
"  caper  sauce/' 


940  OBAVXSS  ABD  SAVCVI. 

Mince  foor  etehaloto  very  fine,  and  pat  them  ifito  a  small 
saucepan,  with  almost  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  the  mutton 
was  boiled  in :  let  them  boil  up  for  &ve  minutes ;  then  put 
in  a  table-spoonful  of  vinera;  a  quarter  tea^spoonful  of 
pepper,  a  little  salt,  and  a  bit  of  butter  (as  big  as  a  walnut) 
roUed  in  flour ;  shake  together  till  it  boils.  See  (No.  403) 
Eschalot  Wine.  ,        ,   ,        ^  ' 

06«.— We  like  a  little  lemon-peel  witii  eschalot ;  the  kaut 
f^ofd  of  the  latter  is  much  ameliorated  by  the  delicate  aroma 
of  the  former.  , 

Some  cooks  add  a  little  finely-chopped  parsley. 

Y<mng  Onion  Scttice.— (No.  396.) 

Peel  a  pint  of  button  onions,  and  put  them  in  water  till 
you  want  to  put  them  on  to  boU ;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  a  quart  of  cold  water;  let  them  boil  tiU  tender;  they 
will  take  (according  to  their  size  and  age)  from  half  an  hour 
to  an  hour:  You  may  put  them  into  half  a  piilt  of  No.  307. 
See  also  No.  137. 

Omon  iSbwiCC.— (No.  397.) 

Those  who  like  the  full  flavour  of  onions  only  cut  off  the 
strings  and  tops  (without  peeling  off"  any  of  the  skms),  put 
ihem  into  salt  and  water,  and  let  them  lie  an  hour;  then 
wash  them,  put  them  into  a- kettle  with  plenty  of  water, 
and  boil  them  till  they  are  tender :  now  skin  them,  pass 
them  through  a  colander,  and  mix  a  little  melted  butter  with 

N.B.  Some  mix  the  pulp  of  apples,  or  turnips,  with  the 
onions  others  add  mustard  to  them. 

WkUe  Onion  &»ttce.--(No.  398.) 

The  following  is  a  more  mild  and  delicate*  preparation: 
Take  half  a  dozen  of  the  largest  and  whitest  onions  (the 
Spanish  are  the  mildest,  but  these  can  only  be.  had  from 
August  to  December) ;  peel  them  and  cut  them  in  half,  and 
lay  ihem  in  a  pan  of  spring-water  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
and  then  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  and  then,  if  you  wish 
them  to  taste  very  mild,  pour  off  that  water,  and  cover  them 
with  fresh  boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil  till  they  are  tender, 
which  will  sometin^s  take  three-quarters  of  an  hour  longer ; 

*  If  yon  wlali  to  hsve  them  eery  mildt  tut  t&em  in  qnarten,  boil  t&em  for  fire 
minates  in  plenty  of  water,  and  tlien  drain  ttiem,  and  cook  them  in  fresii  water, 


GBAVXSt  AXD  8Ar€£S.  ^41 

drain  them  well  on  a  hair-^aieve ;  lay  them  on  the  chopiauf - 
board,  and  chop  and  bruise  them ;  pat  them  into  a  deanisauees^ 
pan,  Mdth  some  butter  and  four,  half  a  tea^spoonful  of  salt, 
and  some  cream^  or  good  milk ;  stir  it  till  it  boils ;  then  rub 
the  whole  throug^h  a  tamis,  orsieve,  adding  cream  or  milk^  to 
make  it  the  consistence  you  wish. 

06^. — This  is  the  usual  sauce  for  boiled  rabbits,  mut- 
ton, or  tripe.  There  must  be  plenty  of  it;  the. usual 
expression  signifies  as  much,  for  we  say,  smoker  them 
with  it. 

Br&wn  Onion  SaueeSf  or  Onicw-Grcroy.— (No.  299.) 

Peel  and  slice  the  onions  (some  put  in  an  eqi^  quantity 
of  cucumber  or  celery)  into  a  quart  stew-pan,  with  an  oimcft 
of  butter ;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  and  turn  the  onion  about  till 
it  is  very  lightly  browned;  now  gradually  stir  in  half  an 
ounce  of  flour ;  add  a  little  broth,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt ; 
boil  up  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  a  table-spoonful  of  claret,  or 
port  wine,  and  same  of  mushroom  catchi^,  (you  may  sharpen 
it  with  a  little  lemon-juice  or  vinegar,)  and  rub  it  through  a 
tamis  or  fine  sieve. 

Curry  powder  (No.  348)  will  convert  this  into  excellent 
curry  sauce. 

N.B*  If  this  sauce  is  for  steaks,  shred  an  ounce  of  onions, 
fry  them  a  nice  brown,  and  put  them  to  the  sauce  youiave 
rubbed  through  a  tamis ;  or  some  very  small,  round,' young 
silver  button  onions  (see  No.  396),  peeled  and  boiled  tender, 
and  put  in  whole  when  your  sauce  is  done,  will  be  an  ac- 
ceptable addition. 

06*. — If  you  have  no  broth,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  and 
see  No.  252 ;  just  before  you  give  it  the  last  boil  up,  add  to  it 
another  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  catchup,  or  the  same 
quan^y^of  port  wine  or  good  ale. 

The-^voux  of  this  sauce  may  be  varied  by  adding, tasragen 
or  burnet  vinegar  (Nos.  396  and  399). 

Sage  and  Onion,  or  GoosC'Stuffing  &c«ce.-^(No.  300*) 

Chop  very  fine  an  ounce  of  onion  and  half  an  ounce  *ot 
green  sage  leaves ;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  four  spoon-' 
fuls  of  water ;  sinuner  gently  for  ten  minutes ;  then  put  in^  a 
tea-spoonful  of  pe]^r  and  salt,  and  one  ounce  of  finebi^ad-' 
crumbs ;  mix  well  together ;  then  pour  to  it  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  (broth,  or  gravy,  or)  melted  butter,  stir  well  toge Aer^ 
and  simmer  it  a  few  minutes  longer* 

X 


242  ORATIB8  AKB  UVCEB. 

Obt*  Thk  is  a  very  relishing  sauce  for  roast  pork,  poultry, 
geese,  or  ducks ;  or  green  pease  on  maigre  dayis. 
See  also  Bonne  Bouche  for  the  above,  No*  341. 

Greei^  Mint  Sauce. — (No.  303.) 

Wash  half  a  handful  of  nice,  young,  fresh-gathered  green, 
mint  (to  this  some  add  one-third  the  quantity  of  parsley) ; 
pick  the  leaves  from  the  stalks,  mince  them  very  fine,  and 
put  them  into  a  sauce-boat,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  moist 
sugar,  and  four  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

Obs. — This  is  the  usual  accompaniment  to  hot  lamb ;  and 
an  equally  agreeable  relish  with  cold  lamb. 
.  If  green  mint  cannot  be  procured,  this  sauce,  may  be  made 
with  mint  vinegar  (No.  398). 

Apple  Sauce.^No.  304.) 

Pare  and  core  three  good-sized  baking  apples ;  put  them 
into  a  well-tinned  pint  saucepan,  with  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  cold  water ;  cover  the  saucepan  close,  and  set  it  on  a 
trivet  over  a  slow  fire  a  couple  of  hours  before,  dinner  (some 
apples  will  take  a  long  time  stewing,  others  will  be  ready 
in  a  quarter  of  an  hour) :  when  the.  apples  are  done  enough, 
pour  off  the  water,  let  them  stand  a  few  minutes  to  get 
dry ;  then  beat  them  up  with  a  fork,  with  a  bit  of  butter 
about  as  big  as  a  nutmeg,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  powdered 
sugar. 

N.B.  Some  add  lemon-peel,  grated,  or  minced  fine,  or  boil 
a  bit  with  the  apples.  Some  are  fond  of  apple  sauce  with 
cold  pork :  ask  those  you  serve  if  they  desire  it. 

Mushroom^  Sauce. — (No.  305.) 

Pick  and  peel  half  a  pint  of  mushrooms  (the  smaller  the 
better) ;  wash  them  veiy  clean,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  half  a  pint  of  veal  gravy  or  milk,  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  and  an  ounce  of  butter  rubbed  with  a  table-spoon- ' 
ful  of  flour ;  stir  them  together,  and  set  them  over  a  gentle 
fire,  to  stew  slowly  till  tender ;  skim  and  strain  it. , 

Obs. — It  will  be  a  great  improvement  to  this,  and  the 
two  following  sauces,  to  add  to  them  the  juice  of  half  a 
dozen  mushrooms,  prepared  the  day  before,  by  sprinkling 
them  with  salt,  the  same  as  when  you  make  catchup ;  or 
add  a  large  spoonful  of  good  double  musluroom  catchup 
(No.  439). 
..  See  Quintessence  of  Mushrooms,  No.  440. 


OltATIES   AND   SAUCES.  343 

•  *  '  * 

N.B.  Much  as  we  love  the  flavour  of  mushrooms,  ive  must 
enter  our  protest  against  their  being  eaten  in  substance,  whefi 
the  morbid  effects  they  produce  too  often  proYe  them  worthy 
of  the  appellations  Seneca  gave  them, ''  voluptuous  poison," 
**  lethal  luxury,''  &c. ;  and  we  caution  those  who  cannot  re- 
frain from  indulging  their  palate  with  the  seducing  relish  of 
this  deceitful  fungus,  to  masticate  it  diligently.        .     , 

We  do  not  believe  that  mushrooms  are  nutritive ;  every  one 
knows  they  are  often  dangerously  indigestible ;  therefore  the 
rational  epicure  will  be  content  with  extracting  the  flavour 
from  them,  which  is  obtained  in  the  utmost  perfection  by  the 
process  directed  in  No.  439. 

Mushroom  SawXf  brown. — (No.  306.) 

Put  the  muishrooms  into  half  a  pint  of  beef  gravy  (No. 
186,  or  No.  329) ;  thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  and  proceed 
as  above. 

Miukroom  Saucty  extempore, — (No.  307.) 

Proceed  as  directed  in  No.  356  to  melt  butter,  only,  instead 
of  two  table-spoonfuls  of  milk,  put  in  two  of  mushroom 
cal^chup  (No.  439  or  No.  440) ;  or  add  it  to  thickened  broth, 
gravy,  or  mock  turtle  soup,  .&c.  or  put  in  No.  296. 

Qhs,  This  is  a  welcome  relish  vfith  flsh,  poultry,  or  chops 
and  steaks,  &c.  A  couple  of  quarts  of  good  catchup  (No. 
439,)  will  make  more  good  sauce  than  ten  times  its  CQst  of 
meat,  &c. 

Walnut  catchup  will  give  you  another  variety ;  and  Ball's 
cavice,  which  is  excellent. 

Poor  MarCs  &!««.— (No.  310.) 

Pick  a  handful  of  parsley  leaves  from  the  stalks,  mince 
them  very  fine,  strew  over  a  little  salt ;  shred  fine  half  a 
dozen  young  green  onions,  add  these  to  the  parsley,  and  put 
them  into  a  sauce-boat,  virith  three  table-spoonfuls  of  oil,  and 
five  of  vinegar;  add  some  ground  black  pepper  and  salt;  stir 
together  and  send  it  up.  -* 

Pickled  French  beans  or  gherkins,  cut  fine,  may  be  added, 
or  a  littlegrated  horseradish. 

Obs. — ^T&s  sauce  is  in  much  esteem  in  France,  where 
peqple  of  taste,  weary  of  rich  dishes,  to  obtain  the  chann  of 
variety,  occasionally  order  the  fare  of  the  peasant. 


ti4  GKATnsa  AND  8A.T7CES. 

The  SjpantartPi  Garlic  Grofvy. — (No.  ZIU    See  also  Itifo.  272^) 

Slice  a  pound  and  a  half  of  veal  or  beef,  pepper  and  salt 
ity  lay  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  couple  of  carrots  split,  and  four 
clores  of  gfaarlic  sliced,  a  quarter  pound  of  sliced  ham,  and  a 
larve  spoonful  of  water ;  set  the  stew-pan  oyer  a  gentle  fycj 
ana  watch  when  the  meat  be^ns  to  stick  to  the  pan ;  when  it 
does,  turn  it,  and  let  it  be  very  weU  browned  (but  takp  care 
it  is  not  at  all  burned) ;  then  dredge  it  with  flour,  and  pour 
in  a  quart  of  broth,  a  bunch  of  sweet.herbs,.a  couple  of  cloves 
bruised,  and  slice  in  a  lemon;  det  it  on  again,  and  let  it  sim- 
mer gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half  Icmger ;  then  take  off  the 
fat,  and  strain  the  gravy  from  the  ingredients,  by  pouring  it 
through  a  napkin,  straining,  and  pressing  it  very  hard. 

Obt. — This,  it  is  said,  was  the  secret  of  the  old  Spaniard, 
who  kept  the  house  called  by  that  name  on  Hampstead 
H^ath. 

Those  who  love  garlic,  will  find  it  an  extremely  rich 
relish. 

Mr^  Michad  Ktlbf^  Sauce  for  boiled  Tripe,  Calfiheadf  or 

Cow-AeeZ.— (No.  311*.) 

Garlic  vinegar,  a  table-spoonful;  of  mustard,  brown  sugar, 
and  black  pepper,  a  tea-spoonfiil  each.;  stirred  into  half  a  pint 
of  oiled  melted  butter. 

Mr.  Kelly's  Sauce  piquarUe, 

Pound  a  table-spoonful  of  capers,  and  one  of  minced 
parsley,  as  fine  as  possible;  then  add  the  yelks  of  three 
nard  eggs,  rub  them  well  together  with  a  table-spoonful  of 
mustard;  bone  six  anchovies^  and  pound  them,  rub  them 
through  a  hair-sieve,  and  mix  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
oil,  one  of  vinegar,  one  of  eschalot  ditto,  and  a  few  grains 
of  Cayenne  pepper;  rub  sdl  these  well  together  in  a  mortar, 
tdl  thoroughly  mcorporated;  then  stir  them  into  half  a  pint 
of  good  gravy,  or  melted  butter,  and  p»ut  the  whole  through 
a  sieve.  . 

Fried  Par»/cjf-— (No.  317.) 

Let  it  be  nicely  picked  and  washed,  then  put  into  a  cloth, 
and  «wttng  backwards  and  forwards  till  it  is  perfectly  dry; 

*  Compo8«r  and  Director  of  tbe  Mtuic  of  the  Theatre  Boyal  Drury  Lane,  and 
the  Italian  Opera. 


OBAVIEa  AND  SAUCES.  246 

put  it  into  a  pan  of  hot  fat,  fiy  it  quick,  and  have  a  slioe 
ready  to  take  it  out  the  moment  it  is  crispXin  another  Inoment 
it  win  he  spoiled) ;  put  it  on  a  8ieve,-or  coarse  cloth,  hefor^ 
the  fire  to  drain. 

^     Crixp  Fa«i«y.— tNo.  318.) 

Pick  and  wash  youiig  parsley,  shake  it  in  a  dry  clofh  ,to 
drain  the  water  from  it ;  spread  it  on  a  sheet  of  clean  pap^ 
in  a  Dutch  oven  before  the  fire,  and  turn  it  frequently  un^l 
it  is  quite  crisp.  This  is  a  much  more  easy  way  of  preparing 
it  than  fryixig  it,  which  is  not  seldom  ill  done.. 

06«.  A  very  pretty  garnish  for  lamb  chops,  fish,  &;c« 

Ftitd  Bread  SippetB.'-{No.  319.) 

Out  a  slice  of  bread  about  a  (garter  of  an  inch  thick ; 
divide  it  with  a  sharp  knife  into  pieces  two  inches  square ; 
iiha|)e  these  into  triangles  or  crosses ;  put  some  very  dean 
fat  mto  an  iron  frjring-paii :  when  it  is  hot,  put  in  the  sippets, 
and  f^  them  a  delicate  light  brown;  take  them  up  with  a 
fish. slice,  and  drain  them  well  from  fat,  turning 4hem.. occa- 
sionally ;  this  will  take  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Keep  the  pan 
at  such  a  distance  from  the  fire  that  the  fat  may  be  hot  enough 
to  brown  without  burning  the  bread.;  this  is  a  requisite  pre- 
caution in  frying  delicate  thin  things. 

Obs.  These  are  a  pretty  gamisl^  and  vety  welcome  ac- 
companiment and  impiOvement  to  the  finest  made  dishes : 
they  may  also  be  sent  up  with  pease  and  other  soups ;  but 
when  intended  for  soups,  the  bread  must  be  cut  into  bitSf 
about  half  an  inch  square. 

N.B.  If  these  are  not  done  very  delicately  clean  and  dry, 
they  are  uneatable. 

Fried  Bread^rumhs^—iJSo.  320.) 

Rub  bread  (which  has  been  baked  two  days)  through  a  wiip 
sieves  or  colander;  or  you  may  rub  them  m  a  cloth  till,  they 
are  as  fine  as  if  they  had  been  grated  and  sifted ;  put. them  into 
a  stew-pan,  with  a  couple  of  ounces  of  butter ;  place  it,  over  a 
moderate  fire,  and  stir  them.  aboAit  with  a  wooden  spoon  .till 
they  are  the  colour  of  a  guinea ;  spread  them  on  a  sieve*  s^ad 
let  them  stand  ten  minutes  to  drain,.tuming4hemfrequepil|f. 

Obs,  Fried  crumbs  are  sent  iq)  with  roasted  sweetbreads, 
or  larks,  pheasants,  partridgesf  liroodcocka,  and  grouse,  or 
moor  gaone ;  especially  if  they  have  beeh  kept  long  enough* 

X2 


S40  ORAVBfig    ATTO   SACCES. 

Bread  &w«>c.— (No.  321.) 

Put  a  small  tea-cupful  of  bread-crumbs  into  a  stew-pan, 
poqr  on  it  as  much  milk  as  it  will  soak  up,  and  a  little  more ; 
or,  instead  of  the  milk»  take  the  giblets,  head,  neck,  and  -leg^» 
&c.  of  the  poultry,  &c.  and  stcrw  them,  and  moisten  the 
bread  with  tnis  liquor ;  put  it  on  the  fire  with  a  middling- 
sized  onion,  and  a  dozen  berries  of  pepper  or  allspice,  or  a 
little  mace ;  let  it  boil,  then  stir  it  well,  and  let  it  simmer  tiU 
it  is  quite  stiff,  and  then  put  to  it  about  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  cream  or  melted  butter,  or  a  little  good  broth ;  take  out 
the  onion  and  pepper^  and  it  is  ready. 

Obs..  This  is  an  excellent  accompaniment  to  game  and 
poultry,  &c.,  and  a  good  vehicle  for  receiving  various  flavours 
from  the  Magazine  of  Taste  (No.  463). 

Rice^  &ttce,— (No.  321*.) 

Steep  a  quarter  of  a. pound  of  rice  in  a  pint  of  milk,  with 
onion,  pepper,  &c.  as  in  the  last  receipt ;  when  the  rice  is 
quite  tender  (take  out  the  spice),  rub  it  through  a  sieve  into 
a  clean  stew-pan :'  if  too  thick,  put  a  little  milk  or  cream  to  it. 

Obi.  This  is  a  very  delicate  white  sauce;  and  at  elegant 
tables  is  frequently  served  instead  of  bread  saiice. 

Bnwwiffigr,— (No*  322.) 

Is  a  convenient  article  to  colour  those  soups  or  sauces  of 
which  it  is  supposed  their  deep  brown  complexion  denotes 
the  strength  and  savouriness  of  the  composition. 

Burned  sugar  is  also  a  favourite  ingredient  with  the 
brewers,  who  use  it  under  the  name  of  '*  essentia  bina'?  to 
colour  their  beer:  it  is  also  employed  by  the  brandy-niakers, 
in  considerable  quantity,  to  colour  brandy;  to  which,  besides 
enriching  its  complexion,  it  gives  that  sweetish  taste,  and 
fulness  m  the  mouth,  which  custom  has  taught  brandy 
drinkers  to  admire,  and  prefer  to  the  finest  Cognac  in  its 
jgenuine  state. 

'  When  employed  for  culinary  purposes,  this  is  sometimes 
made  with  stronff  gravy,  or  walnut  catchup.  Those  who 
like  a  goiU  of  acid  may  add  a  little  walnut  pickle. 

It  will  hardly  be  told  from  what  is  commonly  called 
^^  genuine  Japanese  soy"*  (for  which  it  is  a  very  good  substi- 
tute).   Burned  treacle  or  sugar,  the  peels  of  walnut,  Cayenne 

*  (*  By  the  beit  toeoontB  I  can  find,  soy  iui  ptenaratloii  ftom  die  eeedsof  a  qie- 
ciea  of  toe  DoUehoSy  prepoied  by  a  fermeatation  <if  tlie  ftrioa  of  thii  aeed  in  a  stroDK 
If  xlviam  of  common  salt'*— Cullkm's  Mat.  M«d.  vol.  I.  p.  490. 


GRAVIES   AUB  SAUCES.  247 

pepper,  or  capsicums,  or  Chilies,  vinegar,  garlic,  and  pickled 
herrings  (especially  the  Dutch),  Sardinias,  or  sprats,  appear 
to  be  the  bases  of  almost  all  the  sauces  which  how  (to  use  the 
maker's  phrase)  stand  unrivalled. 

Although  indefatiffable  research  and  experiment  have  i>nt 
us  in  possession  of  these  compositions,  it  would  not  be  quite 
fair  to  enrich  the  cook  at  the  expense  of  the  oilman,  &c. ;  we 
hope  we  have  said  enough  on  tnese  subjects  to  satisfy  **  the 
rational  epicure.** 

Put  half  a  pound  of  pounded  lump-sugar,  and  a  table- 
m>oonful  of  water,  into  a  clean  iron  saucepan,  set  it  over  a 
islow  fire,  and  keep  stirring  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  it 
becomes  a  bright  brown  colour,  and  begins  to  smoke ;  then 
add  to  it  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  dilute  it  by  degrees  with  water, 
tin  it  is  the  thickness  of  soy ;  let  it  boil,  ts^e  off  the  scum, 
and  strain  the  liquor  into  bottles,  which  must  be  well  stopped: 
if  you  have  not  any  of  this  by  you,  and  you  wish  to  darken 
the  colour  of  your  sauces,  pound  a  tea^spoonful  of  lump- 
sugar,  and  put  it  into  an  iron  spoon,  with  as  much  water  as 
wiQ  dissolve  it ;  hold  it  over  a  quick  fire  till  it  becomes  of  a 
very  dark  brown  colour;  mix  it  with  the  soup,  &c,  while  it 
is  hot. 

Obs.  Most  of  the  preparations  under  this  title  are  a  medley 
of  burned  butter,  spices,  catchup,  wine,  &c.  We  recommend 
the  rational  epicure  to  be  content  with  the  natural  colour  of 
soups  and  sauces,  which,  to  a  well-educated  palate,  are  much 
more  agreeable,  without  any  of  these  empyreumatic  addi- 
tions; however  they  may  please  the  eye,  they,  plague  the 
stomach  most  grievously;  so  '^open  your  mouth  and  shut 
your  eyes." 

For  the  sake  of  producing  a  pretty  colour,  "  cheese," 
"  Cayenne'*  (No.  404),  "essence  of  anchovy"  (No.  433),  &c. 
are  mquently  adulterated  with  a  eolourinff  matter  contain- 
ing red  lead! !  See  Accum  on  the  AdiutercUton  of  Food^ 
2d  edit.  12mo.  18S0. 

A  scientific  "  hmme  de  bouehe  de  France^  observes :  *«  The 
generality  of  cooks  calcine  bones,  till  they  are  as  black  as  a 
coal,  and  throw  them  hissing  hqt  into  the  stew-pan,  to  give  a 
brown  colour  to  their  broths.  These  ingredients,  under  the 
appearance  of  a  nourishing  gravy,  envelope  our  food  with  sti- 
mulating acid  and  corrosive  poison. 

"  Roux,  or  thickening  (No.  357),  if  not  made  very  carefully, 
produces  exactly  the  same  effect ;  and  the  juices  of  beef  or 
veal,  bui;ned  over  a  hot  fire,  to  give  a  rich  colour  to  soup  or 
sauces,  grievously  offend  the  stomach,  and  create  the  most 
distressing  indigestions. 


't4B  eSAVISS  ASD  savob$. 

<"  The  judicious  cook  will  refuse  the  help  of  these  ineeu- 
diuy  articles,  which  ignorance  or  quackery  only  employ; 
WA  only  at  Hie  expense  of  the  credit  of  the  cook,  but  the 
health  of  her  employers." 

N.B.  The  best  inrowninff  is  gfood  home-made  gla^e  (No. 
AfiS),  mushroom  catchup  (No.  439),  or  claret,  ot  port  wine. 
See  also  No.  357;  or  cut  meat  into  n^ces,  said  6roil  tbem 
toown,  and  then  stew  them. 

Oracy^r  roa«<  JIfeor.— (No.  326.) 

Most  joints  will  afford  enfiUcient  trimmings,  ibc.  to  mak^ 
half  a  pint  of  plain  gravy,  which  you  may  colour  with  a  few 
drops  of  No.  392 :  for  those  that  do  not,  about  half  an  hour 
before  you  think  the  meat  will  foe  done,  mix  a  salt-spoonful 
of  salt,  witii  a  full  quarter  pint  of  boiling  water ;  drop  this  t^y 
degrees  on  the  brown  parts  of  the  joint;  set  a  dish  under  to 
catch  it  (the  meat  will  soon  brown  again*) ;  sel;  it  hy ;  as  it 
eools,  the  fat  will  float  on  the  surface ;  when  the  meat  is 
ready,  carefully  remove  the  fat,  and  warm  up  the  graty,  and 
pour  it  into  the  dish. 

The  common  method  is,  when  the  meat  iain  the  dish  yon 
intend  to  send  it  up  in,  to  mix  half  a  tea-spooiufiil  of  salt  in  a 
quarter  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  to  dropBome  of  this  over 
Ine  comers  and  underside  of  the  meat,  and  to  pour  the  rest 
tlirough  the  hole  the  spit  came  out  of:  some  pierce  the  infe- 
rior parts  of  the  joints  with  a  sharp  skewer. 

The  following  receipt  was  given  us  by  a  very  good  cook : 
You  may  make  good  browning  for  roast  meat  and  poultry, 
by  saving  the  brown  bits  of  roast  meat  or  broiled ;  cut  them 
'small,  put  them  into  a  basin,  cover  them  with  boiling  water, 
and  put  them  away  till  next  day;  then  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan, let  it  boil  two  or  three  minutes,  strain  it  through  a  sieve 
into  a  basin,  and  put  it  away  for  use.  When  you  want  gravy 
for  roast  meat,  put  two  table-spoonfuls  into  half  a  pint  of 
boiling  water  with  a  little  salt :  if  for  roasted  veal,  put  three 
table-spoonfuls  into  half  a  pint  of  thin  melted  butter. 

N.B.  The  gravy  which  comes  down  in  the  dish,  the  cook 
(if  she  is  a  good  housewife)  will  preserve  to  enrich  hashes 
or  little  made  dishes,  &c. 

Obs.  Some  culinary  professors,  who  think  nothing  can 
be  excellent  that  is  not  extravagant,  call  this  *^  Scots'  gravy;" 
not,  I  believe,  intending  it,  as  it  certainly  is,  a. compliment  to 
the  laudable  and  rational  frugality  of  that  intelligent  and 
sober-minded  people. 

N.B.  This  gravy  should  be  brought  to  table  in  a  sauce- 


GSAVIES    AND  SAUCES.  iH 

boat ;  preserve  the  intrinsic  gravy  which  flows  from  the  meat 
in  the  Argyll. 

Gravy  fir  ttoUed  Jlfwitf,— (No.  337.) 

'  _  .        ,  ,■  ^ 

May  be  made  with  parings  and  trimmings ;  or  pour  fronEi  a 
quarter  to  half  a  pint  of  the  liqnor  in  wmch  the  meat  was 
boiled,  into  the  dish  with  it,  and  pierce  the  inferior  part  of 
the  joint  with  a  sharp  skewer. 

W<m  w(m  Sauce  fir  stewed  or  bomUt  £ce/I— (No.  338.) 

Chop  some  parsley-leaves  very  f&ie;  <][uarter  two  or 
three  pickled  cucumbers,  or  walnuts,  and  divide  them  into 
small  squares,  and  set  them  by  ready :  put  into  a  saucepan  a 
bit  of  butter  as  big  as  an  egg;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  to  it  a 
table-spoonful  of  fine  flour,  and  about  half  a  pint  of  the  broth 
in  which  the  beef  was  boiled ;  add  a  fable-spoonful  of  vine- 
gar, the  like  quantity  of  mushroom  catchupj  or  port  wine,  or 
both,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  made  mustard;  let  it  simmer 
together  till  it  is  as  thick  as  you  wish  it ;  put  in  the  parsley 
and  pickles  to  get  warm,  aiid  pour  it  over  the  beef ;  or  rather 
send  it  up  in  a  sauce-tureen. 

Obs.  If  you  think  the  above  not  sufficiently  pt^tian^e,  add 
to  it  some  capers,  or  a  minced  eschalot,  or  one  or  two  tea- 
spoonfids  of  eschsdot  wine  (No«  403),  or  essence  of  anchovy, 
or  basil  (No.  397),  elder,  or  tarragon  (No.  396),  or  horse-* 
radish  (No.  399*),  or  bumet  vinegar ;  or  strew  over  the  meat 
carrots  and  turnips  cut  into  dice,  minced  capers,  walnuts^ 
red  cabbage,  pickled  cucumbers,  or  French  beans,  &d. 

Beef-gravy  Sauce — (No.  339),  or  Brown  Sauce  fir  RagO^Uf 

GamCf  Poultry^  /HwA,  ^c» 

If  you  want  gravy  immediately,  see  No.  307,  or  No.  353^ 
If  yon  have  time  enough,  furnish  a  thick  and  well-tinned 
stew-pan  with  a  thin  slice  of  fat  ham  or  bacon,  or  ah  ounesb 
of  butter,  and  a  middlinff-sized  onion ;  on  this  lay  a  piound  d 
nice,  juicy  gravy  beef,(as  the  object  in  making  gravy  i^  ta 
extract  the  nutritious  succulence  of  the  meat,  it  must  be 
beaten  to  comminute  the  containing  vessels,  and  scoi^d  to 
augment  the  surface  to  the  action  of  the  water) ;  cover  the 
stew-pan,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire ;  when  the  meat  be^s^^'. 
brown,  turn  it  about,  and  let  it  get  slightly  brownedXbut  take* 
care  it  i9  not  at  all  btumed) :  then  pour  in  a  pint  and  a  hallf 
of  boiling  water;  set  the  pail  on  the  fire ;  when  it  boils,  c^jp^ 
fully  catch  the  sciyn,  and  then  put  in  a  crust  of  bread  toasted 


S50  GSAVX£8  AKO  SAUCES. 

brown  (donU  bum  it),  a  sprig  of  winter  savoury,  or  lemon- 
thyme  and  parsley,  a  roll  of  thin-cut  lemon-peel,  a  dozen  ber- 
ries of  allspice,  and  a  dozen  of  black  pepper ;  cover  the  stew- 
pan  close,  let  it  stew  very  gently  for  about  two  hours,  then 
strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin. 

If  3rou  wish  to  thicken  it,  set  a  clean  stew-pan  over  a  slow 
fire,  wiUi  about  an  ounce  of  butter  in  it ; .  wnen  it  is  melted, 
dredge  to  it  (by  degrees)  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up, 
stirring  them  well  together;  when  thoroughly  mixed,  pour 
in  a  little  of  the  gravy ;  stir  it  well  together,  and  add  the 
remainder  by  degrees;  set  it  over  the  fire,  let  it  simmer 
gently  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  longet,  and  skim  off  the 
fat,  &c.  as  it  rises;  when  it  is  about  as  thick  as  cream, 
squeeze  it  through  a  tamis,  or  fine  sieve,  and  you  will  have  a 
fine,  rich  brown  sauce,  at  a  very  moderate  expense,  and  with- 
out Qiuch  trouble. 

Obi.  If  you  wish  to  make  it  still  more  relishing,  if  it  is 
for  poultry,  you  may  pound  the  liver  with  a  bit  of  butter,  rub 
it  throuffh  a  sieve,  and  stir  it  into  the  sauce  when  you  put  in 
the  thickening. 

For  a  ragout  or  game,  add  at  the  same  time  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  musnroom  catchup,  or  No.  343,*  or  No.  429,  or  a  few 
drops  of  422,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  roll  of  the  rind 
pared  thin,  a  table-spoonful  of  port,  or  other  wine  (claret  is 
best),  and  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne  pepper ;  or  use  double 
the  quantity  of  meat ;  or  add  a  bit  of  glaze,  or  portable  soup 
(No.  263),  to  it. 

You  may  vary  the  flavour,  by  sometimes  adding  a  little 
basil,  or  bumet  wine  (No.  397),  tarragon  vinegar  (No.  396), 
or  a  wine-glass  of  quintessence  of  mushrooms  (No.  450). 

See  the  Magazine  of  Taste  (No.  462).     / 

N.6.  This  is  an  excellent  gravy;  and  at  a  large  dinner,  a 
pint  of  it  should  be  placed  at  each  end  of  the  table ;  you  may 
make  it  equal  to  the  most  costly  consomm^  of  the  Parisian 
kitchen. 

Those  families  who  are  frequently  in  want  of  gravy, 
sauces,  &c.  (without  plenty  of  which  no  cook  can  support  the 
credit  of  her  kitchen),  should  keep  a  stock  of  portable  soup 
or  glaze  (No.  252) :  this  wiU  make  gravy  immediately. 

*  One  of  "  let  bonnu  hommes  de  bouche  de  Fraiuse^*  ordera  the  following  addition 
for  game  nravy  :—^  For  a  pint,  par-roast  a  partridge  or  a  pigeon ;  cut  off  the  meat  • 
oUt,  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  and  put  it  into  the  stew-pan  when  you  thicken  the  sauce.'* 
We  do  not  recommend  either  soup  or  sauce  to  be  tkiekmed^  because  it  requires  (to 
give  it  the  sanie  quickness  en  the  palate  it  had  before  it  was  thickened)  double  the 
quantity  ofjriquaMiB  materials ;  which  are  thus  smuggled  down  the  rea  lane,  with- 
out affording  any  amusement  to  the  mouth,  and  at  the  risk  of  highly  oflbnding  the 
■tQffiach. 


OXAVISft  AJW  SAVOKS.  261 

Game  Gfftfoy.'^No.  337.) 
S^  Ob$.  to  No.  399. 

Orange'graTfy  Sauce^fir  wild  Ducksj  Woodcocktf  Snipest 
mdgBon,  and  Teal^  4^.— (No.  338.) 

Set  on  a  saucepan  with  half  a  pint  of  yeal  gravy  (No.  192), 
add  to  it  half  a  dozen  leaves  of  basil,  a  small  onion,  and  a 
roll  of  OTBUge  or  lemon-peel,  and  let  it  boil  up  tor  a  few 
minutes,  and  strain  it  off.  Put  to  the  clear  gravy  the  juice 
of  a  Seville  orange,  or  lemon,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  the 
same  of  pepper,  and  a.  glass  of  red  wine ;  send  it  up  hot. 
Eschalot  and  Cayenne  mav  be  added. 

Obt. — ^This  is  an  excellent  sauce  for  all  kinds  of  wild 
water-fowl. 

The  common  way  of  gashing  the  breast  and  squeezing  in 
an  orange,  cools  and  hardens  the  flesh,  and  compels  every 
one  to  eat  duck  that  way:  some  people  like  wild  fowl  very 
little  done,  and  without  any  sauce. 

Gravies  should  always  be  sent  up  in  a  covered  boat :  they 
keep  hot  longer;  and  it  leaves  it  to  the  choice  of  the  com- 
pany to  partdie  of  them  or  not. 

Bonne  Bouchefar  Goou,  D%uky  or  roast  Pork. — (No.  341.) 

4 

Mix  a  tea-spoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne,  in  a  large  wme-glassful  of 
claret  or  port  wine  ;*  pour  it  into  the  goose  by  a  slit  in  the 
apron  just  before  serving  up  ;t  or,  as  all  the  company  may 
not  like  it,  stir  it  into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  thick  melted 
butter,  or  thickened  gravy,  and  send  it  up  in  a  boat.  See 
also  Sage  and  Onion  Sauce,  No.  300.    Or, 

A  favourite  relish  for  roast  pork  or  geese,  &c.  is,  two 
ounces  of  leaves  of  green  sage,  an  ounce  of  fresh  lemon-peel 
pared  thin^  pame  of  salt,  minced  eschalot,  and  half  a  drachm 
of  Cayenne  pepper,  ditto  of  citric  acid,  steeped  for  a  fortnight 
in  a  pint  of  claret ;  shake  it  up  well  every  aay ;  let  it  stand  a 
day  to  settle,  and  decant  the  clear  liquor ;  bottle  it,  and  cork 
it  close ;  a  table-spoonful  or  more  in  a  quarter  pint  of  gravy, 
or  melted  batter. 

*  To  this  some  add  a  table^qiwoDfti]  of  mosbroom  catchup  (So.  439),  and  instead 
6f  the  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  a  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy  (No.  433).  If  the 
ahove  articles  are  rubbed  togetlier  in  a  mortar,  and  put  into  a  close-^pped  IwtUe, 
they  will  keep  for  some  time. 

t  Thus  ftir  the  above  is  from  Dr.  Humtkr's  "  Culina,^*  who  says  it  is  a  secret 
worth  Imowing :  we  agree  with  him,  and  so  tell  it  Here,  with  a  little  addition,  whicft 
we  think  renders  it  a  itill  more  gratifying  communicauon. 


35t  OBAVm  Aim  9AVCMM. 

Robert  Smiee  Jhr  rwH  Park^  cr  Qeae,  ^.— (No.  342.) 

Pot  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  pint  stew-pan :  wlieli  it  is 
meltcNJIy  add  to  it  half  an  ounce  of  onion  minced  very  fine ; 
torn  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  tUl  it  takes  a  lig^t  brown 
colour;  then  stir  in  a  taUe^-spoonfid  of  floor,  a  table-spoonful 
of  mushroom  catchup  (with  or  without  the  like  quantity  of 
port  wine),  half  a  pint  of  broth  or  water,  and  a  miarter  of  a 
tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  the  same  of  salt;  give  them  a  boil; 
then  add  a  tearspoonful  of  mustard,  and  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  or  one  or  two  tea-spo<Mifuls  of  vinegar  or  basil  (No. 
397),  or  tarragon  (No.  396),  or  bumet  vinegar  (No.  399). 

Obi. — The  French  call  this  *'  Sauce  Robert**  (from  the 
name  of  the  co<A  who  invented  it),  and  are  very  fond  of  it 
with  many  things,  which  Mart  Smith,  in  the  **' Complete 
H&UMktepcr^  8vo.  1772,  p^  105,  translates  boe-boat-s>luce. 
See  Obs.  to  No.  589. 

TkrOe  &ttce.--<No.  343.) 

Put  into  your  stew-pan  a  pint  of  beef  gravy  thickened  (No. 
329) ;  add  to  this  some  of  the  following — essence  of  turtle, 
(No.  343**),  or  a  wine-glassful  of  Madeira,  the  juice  and  peel 
of  half  a  lemon,  a  few  leaves  of  basil,*  an  eschalot  quartered, 
a  few  grains  of  Cayenne  pepper,  or  curry  powder^  atfd  aliitfie- 
essence  oi  anchovy ;  let  them  simmer*  together  for  five  mi- 
nutes, and  strain  through  a  tamis :  you  may  introduce  a  cK>zen 
turtle  foreemeat  balls.    See  receipt.  No.  380,  &c; 

Qbff..— This  is  the  sauce  for  boiled  or  bashed  caitf  V  head', 
stewed  veal,  or  any  dish  you  dress  turtle  fashion. 

The  far-fetched  and  dear-bought  turtle  owe?  its  M^  rdJtlk 
on  the  list  of  savoury  honne  b&uches  to  the  relishmg  and 
piquaiUt  sauce  that  is  made  for  it ;  without,  it  would  be  a» 
insipid  as  any  other  fish  is  without  sauce.  See  Obi*  to  No.  493. 

Emnce  tf  l^r^.— (No.  343*.)  l 

Essence  of  anchovy  (No.  433),  one  wine-^Vassful. 

Eschalot  wine  (No.  402),  one  and  a  half  ditto* 

Basil  wine  (No.  397),  four  ditto. 

Mushroom  catchup  (No.  439),  two  ditto. 

Ccmerete  lemon  acid,  one  drachm>  or  some  aitificial  lemon- 
juice  (No.  407*). 

Lemon-peel,  veiy  thinly  pared,  three-quarters  of  an 
oimce* 

*  Bee  Baril  Wine  (No.  397). 


GBATIfiS  AND  SAUCSS.  S63 

iDuiry  powd6r  (No.  455),  a  quarter  of  an  ounce. 
Steep  for  a  weeJk,  to  get  the  flavour  of  the  lemon-peel,  ke. 
Ohs* — This  is  very  convenient  to  extemporaneously  turtUfy 
soup,  sauce,  or  potted  meats,  ragodts,  savoury  patties,  pies. 

Wine  Sauce  for  Fenison  or  //arc— (No.  344.) 

A  quarter  of  a  pint  of  claret  or  port  wine,  the  same  quantity 
of  plain,  unflavoured  mutton  gravy  (No.  3(47),  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  currant  jelly :  let  it  just  boil  up,  and  send  it  to 
table  in  a  sauce-boat. 

.  Sharp  Sauce  for  Ver&son. — (No.  345.) 

Put  into  a  silver,  or  very  clean  and  well-tinned  saucepan, 
half  a  pint  of  the  best  wmte  wine  vinegar,  and  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  loaf-sugar  pounded :  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  let 
it  simmer  gently ;  skim  it  carefully;  pour  it  through  a  tamis 
or  ^e  sieve,  and  send  ii  up  in  a^basin. 

€hs, — Some  people  like  tins  better  than  the  sweet  wine 
sauces. 

Sweet  Sauce  for  VetUson  or  Hare.— (No.  346.) 

Put  some  currant-jelfy  into  a  stew^pah ;  when  it  is  melted, 
pour  it  into  a  sauce-boat. 

N.B.  Many  send  it  to  table  Without  meltingf.  T6  make 
currant-jelly,  see  No.  479*.  / 

This  is  a  more  Salubrious  relish  than  eithei*  spice  or  salt, 
i;^en  the  palate  protests  against  animal  food  unless  its 
flavour  be  masked.  Currant-jelly  is  a  good  accompaniment 
to  roasted  or  hashed  meats. 

MviUon  Gravy  for  Venison  or  /fore.-^(No.  347.) 

The  best  gravy  for  venison  is  that  made  with  the  trimmings 
of  the  joint :  if  this  is  all  used,  and  you  have  no  undressed 
venison,  cut  a  scrag  of  mutton  ia  pieces ;  broil  it  a  little 
brown ;  then  put  it  into  a  clean  stew-pan,  with  a  quart  of 
boiling  water;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  an 
hour:  now  uncover  the  stew-pan,  and  let  it  reduce  to  three- 
quarters  of  a  pint;  pour  it  through  a  hair-si^ve;  take  the 
fat  off*,  and  send  it  up  in  a  boat.  It  is  only  to  be  seasoned' 
With  ar  little  salt,  liiat  it  may  not  overpower  the  natural 
flavour  of  the  meat.  Y9U  may  colour  it  with  a  very  little 
of  No.  3S2. 

Y      . 


254  0XAV1S8  Aim  saucsb. 

N.B*  Some  prefer  the  unseasoned  beef  gravy,  No.  186", 
which  you  may  make  in  five  minutes  with  No.  252. 

The  qvsin's  gaayt  or  mutton,  as  made  by  her  Majesty^s 
**E»cwyer  de  Cuidne^  Monsieur  La  Montag^ne.    ''Boast  a 
juicy  leg  of  mutton  three-quarters;  then  gash  it  in  several . 
places,  and  press  out  the  juice  by  a  screw-press.**— From 
Su  KufBLM  IhesT*8  Cockery^  18mo.  London,  1669. 

Cterry  iSfltice,— (No.  348.) 

Is  made  by  stirring  a  sufficient  quantity  of  curry  stuiT, 
(No.  455)  into  gravy  or  melted  butter,  or  onion  sauce  (Nos. 
297, 298),  or  onion  gravy  (No.  299,  or  No.  339V 

The  compositions  of  curry  powder,  and  tne  palates  of 
those  who  eat  it,  vary  so  much,  that  we  cannot  recom- 
mend any  specific  quantity.  The  cook  must  add  it  by 
degrees,  tastmg  as  she  proceeds,  and  take  care  not  to  put  in 
too  much. 

Obs* — ^The  curry  powder  (No.  455)  approximates  more 
nearly  to  the  best  Indian  curry  stuff,  and  is  an  agreeable  and 
well-blended  mixture  of  this  class  of  aromatics. 

N.B.  To  dress  curries,  see  No.  497, 

JSttMce  (f  Jfam.^No.  351.) 

Essence  of  ham  and  of  beef  may  be  purchased  at  the 
eating-houses  which  cut  up  those  joints ;  the  former  for  half 
a  crown  or  three  shillings  a  auart :  it  is  therefore  a  most 
economical  relish  for  made-disnes,  and  to  give  piqwmce  to 
sauces,  &c« 

GnZT&iiee.— (No.  365.) 

To  half  a  pint  of  gravy  (No.  329),  add  an  ounce  of  fresh 
butter,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  previously  well  jrubbed 
together,  the  same  of  mushroom  or  walnut  catchup,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon-juice,  one  of  made  mustard,  one  of 
minced  capers,  half  a  one  of  black  pepper,  a  quarter  of  a 
rind  of  a  lemon  grated  very  thin,  a  tea-spoonful  of  essence 
of  anchovies,  and  a  little  eschalot  wine  (No,  402),  or  a  very 
small  piece  of  minced  eschalot,  and  a  little  Chili  vinegar 
(No.  405),  or  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne ;  simmer  together  for 
a  few  minutes ;  pour  a  little  of  it  over  the  grill,  and  send 
up  the  rest  in  a  sauce-tureen.  For  anchovy  toasts,  No.  573, 
or  No.  538.    Or^ 


^  OBAVIES  AND  8AUC£S.  255 

Sauce  a  la.  Taiiare^    ^ 

Pound  in  a  mortar  three  hard  yelks  of  eggs ;  put  them' 
kito  a  4}asm,  and  add  half  a  table-spoonful  of  made  mus- 
tard, and  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  pour  to  it  by  degrees, 
stirring  it  fast  all  the  while,  about  two  wine-fflassfms  of 
dalad  oil ;  stir  it  together  till  it  comes  to  a  good  mickness. 

N.B.  A  little  tarragon  or  chervil  minced  very  fine,  and  a 
little  vinegar,  may  he  added;  or  some  of  the  ingredients 
enumerated  in  No.  372. 

06^.— This  from  the  French  artist  who  wrote  the  receipt 
for  dressing  a  turtle. 

Mem, — ^^ese  ^repiquanU  relishes  for  anchovy  toasts  (No. 
&73,  or  No.  538) ;  for  broiled  devils,  &c.  ^  F^ritaUe  eauce 
d'enfer,**  see  No.  538 ;  and  a  refreshing  excitement  for  those 
idle  palates,  who  are  as  incessantly  mumbling  out  **  piquante, 
piquante,"  as  parrots  do  "pretty  Poll,  pretty  Poll." 

"  For  palatM  grown  callous  almoet  to  disease, 
Who  peppers  the  tngbest  is  surest  to  please." 

GOLDBIUTH. 

Sauce  for  Steaksj  or  Chops,  Cutlets,  ^c. — (No.  356.    See  also 

No.  331.) 

Take  your  chops  out  of  the  frying-pan ;  for  a  pound  ^f 
meat  keep  a  table-spoonful  of  the  fat  in  the  pan,  or  put  in 
about  announce  of  butter ;  put  to  it  as  much  flour  as  will 
make  it  a  paste ;  rub  it  well  together  over  the  fire  till  they 
are  a  little  brown ;  then  add  as  much  boiling  water  as  will 
reduce  it  to  the  thickness  of  good  cream,  and  a  table-spoonful 
of  mushroom  or  walnut  catchup,  or  pickle,  or  browning  <No. 
322,  or  No.  449) ;  let  it  boil  together  a  few  minutes,  and  pour 
it  through  a  sieve  to  the  steaks,  &c. 

Obs, — To  the  above  is  sometimes  added  a  sliced  onion, 
or  a  minced  eschalot,  with  a  table-spoonful  of  port  wine, 
or  a  little  eschalot  wine  (Nos.  402, 423,  or  135).  Garnish 
with  finely-scraped  horseradish,  or  pickled  walnuts,  gherkins, 
&c.  Some  beef-eaters-  like  chopped  eschalots  in  one  saucer, 
and  horseradish  grated  in  vinegar,  in  another.  Broiled 
mushrooms  are  favourite  relishes  to  beef-steaks. 

Sauce  Piquante  for  cold  Meat,  Crame,  Poultry,  Fidi,  <J>Y^.  or 
Salcuis.-^(So,  359.  See  also  No.  372,  and  Cucumber 
Vinegar,  Nos.  399  and  453.) 

Pound  in  a  mortar  the  yelks  of  two  eggs  that  have  been 
boiled  hard  (No.  547),  with  a  mustard-spoonful  of  made 


256  GSATISSAIiD  SAI7CB8. 

mustard,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  add  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  salad  oil ;  mix  weU,  and  then  add  three  table-spoonfuls 
of  vinegar ;  rub  it  up  well  till  it  is  quite  smooth,  and  pass  it 
through  a  tamis  or  sieve. 

Obs. — To  the  above,  some  add  an  anchovy,  or  a  table- 
spoonful  of  mushroom  catchup,  or  walnut  pickle,  some  iinely- 
cnopped  parsley,  grated  horseradish,  or  young  onions  minced, 
or  bumet  (No.  399),  horseradish  (No.  399*,  or  No.  402),  or 
tarragon,  or  rider  vmegar  (No.  396),  &c.,  and  Cayenne  or 
minced  pickles,  capers,  &c.  This  is  zpiquarUe  relish  for 
lobsters,  crabs,  cold  fish,  &c. 

Sauce  fir  Hashes  of  MuUan  or  Beef.-rO^o.  360.    See  also 
Nos.  451,  485,  and  to  make  Plain  Hash,  No.  486.) 

Unless  you  are  quite  sure  you  perfectly  understand  the 
palate  of  those  you  are  working  for,  show  those  who  are  to 
eat  the  hash  this  receipt,  and  beg  of  thenk  to  direct  you  how 
they  wish  it  seasoned. 

Half  the  number  of  the  ingredients  enmnerated  will  be 
more  than  enough :  but  as  it  is  a  receipt  so  often  wanted  we 
have  given  variety.    See  also  No.  486. 

To  prepare  the  meat,  see  No.  484. 

Chop  the  bones  and  fragments  of  the  joint,  &c.,  atod 
put  mem  into  a  stew-pan ;  cover  them  with  boiling 
water,  six  berries  of  black  pepper,  the  same  of  allspice,  a 
small  bundle  of  parsley,  half  a  head  of  celery  cut  in  pieces, 
and  a  small  sprig  of  savoury,  or  lemon-thyme,  or  sweet 
marjoram ;  cover  up,  and  let  it  simmbr  gently  for  half 
an  hour,' 

Slice  half  an  ounce  of  onion^  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan 
with  an  ounce  of  butter;  fry  it  over  a  shaip  fire  for  about  a 
couple  6i  minutes,  till  it  takes  a  little  colour;  then  stir  in 
as  much  flour  ais  will  make  it  a  stiff  paste,  and  by  degrees 
mix  with  it  the  gravy  you  have  made  from  the  bones,  ^c. ;« 
let  it  boil  very  gently  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  till  it 
is  the  consistence  of  cream ;  strain  it  through  a  tamis  or  sieve 
into  a  basin;  put  it  back  into  the  stew-pan:  to  season  it, 
see  No.  451,  or  cut  in' a,  few  pickled  onions,  or  walnuts, 
or  a  couple  of  gherkins,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom 
catchup,  or  wamut  or  other  pickle  liquor;  or  some  capers* 
and  capcir  liquor;  or  a  table-spooHful  of  ale;,  or  a  little 
eschalot,  or  tarragon  vinegar ;  cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish 
with  sippets  of  bread  (that  they  may  become  savoury  reser-^ 
y6\Y&  of  gravy),  which  some  toast  and  cut  ifatb'  tmtXigles. 
Yott  may  garnish  it  with  fried  bread  sippets  (No.  319)^ 


0SAVXIE8  AKD  MXVCJSS,  257 

NB.  To  bash  meat  in  perfection,  it  should  be  laid  in 
this  gravy  only  just  long  enough  to  get  properly  warm 
through. 

Obs.  If  any  of  the  gravy  that  was  sent  up  with,  or  ran 
^m  the  joint  when  it  was  roasted,  be  left,  it  will  be  a  great 
improvement  to  the  hash. 

If  3rou  wish  to  make  mock  venison,  instead  of  the  onion, 
put  in  two  or  three  cloves,  a  table*spoonful  of  currant  jelly, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  clarel  dr  port  wine,  instead  of  the 
catchup. 

You  may  make  a  curry  hash  by  adding  some  of  No.  455. 

N.B.  A  pint  of  No.  8d9  is  an  excellent  gravy  to  warm  up 
either  meat  or  poultry. 

Sauce  for  hashed  or  minced  Veal — (No.  361.    See  No.  511.) 

Take  the  boni^s  of  cold  roast  or  boiled  veal,  dredge  them 
well  with  flour,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  pint  and 
a  half  Of  broth  or  water,  a  small  onkm,  a  little  pated  or  finely- 
minced  lemon-peel,  or  the  peel  of  a  quarter  of  a  small  lemon, 
bared  as  thin  as  possible,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
blade  of  pOusided  mace ;  to  thicken  it,  rub  a  table-spoonful  of 
flour  into  half  an  ounce  of  butter ;  stir  it  into  the  broth,  and 
net  it  on  the  Are,  and  let  it  boil  very  gently  for  about  haJf  an 
hour ;  -strain  through  a  tamis  or  sieve,  and  it  is  ready  to  put 
to  the  veal  to  warm  up ;  which  is  to  be  done  by  jdacing  the 
stew-pan  by  the  side  of  the  fire.  Squeeze  in  half  a  lemon, 
and  cover  tne  bottom  of  the  dish  with  toasted  bread  sippets 
cut  into  triangles,  and  garnish  the  dish  with  slices  of  hiam  or 
bac<m.    See  Nos.  526  and  587. 

Bechamd,  by  English  Cooks  commonly  called  Whiie  Sauce. 

(No.  364.) 

Cut  in  square  pieces,  half  an  inch  thick,  two  pounds  of  lean 
veal,  half  a  pound  of  lean  ham ;  melt  in  a  stew-pan  two  ounces 
of  batter ;  when  melted^  let  the  whole  simmer  until  it  is  ready 
to  catch  at  the  bottom  (it  requires  great  attention,  as,  if  it 
happen  to  catch  at  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan,  it  will  spoil 
the  look  of  your  sauce) ;  theil  add  to  it  three  table-spoonfuls 
of  flour;  when  well  mixed,  add  to  it  three  pints  of  broth  or 
water  (pour  a  little  at  a  time,  that  the  thickening.be  smoojth); 
stir  it  until  it  boil ;  put  the  stew-pan  on  the  comer  of  the  stove 
to  boil  gently  fot  two  hours ;  season  it  with  four  cloves,  one 
onion,  twelve  pepper-corns,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  few-^mush- 
rdOttiS  and  a  fagot  m^de  of  parsley,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  a 

Y2 


258  OXATXSS  AJfD  BAVCBS. 

bay-leaf.  Let  the  sauce  reduce  to  a  quart,  skim  the  fat  oiT, 
and  strain  it  throuffh  a  tamis  cloth. 

To  make  a  bechamel  sauce,  add  to  a  quart  of  the  above 
a  pint  'of  good  cream ;  stir  it  until  it  is  reduced  to  a  good 
thickness;  a  few  mushrooms  give  a  good  flavour  to  that 
sauce ;  strain  it  through  a  tamis  cloth. 

06s.  The  above  was  given  us  by  a  French  artist. 

A  mart  economical  Method  of  makine  a  Pint  ff  White  Sauce, 

(No.  364— 2. ) 

Put  equal  parts  of  broth  and  milk  into  a  stew-pan  with  an 
onion  and  a  blade  of  mace;  set  it  on  the  fire  to  boil  ten 
minutes ;  have  ready  and  rub  together  on  a  plate  an  ounce  of 
flour  and  butter;  put  it  into  the  stew-pan ;  stir  it  well  till  it 
boils  up ;  then  stand  it  near  the  fire  or  stove,  stirring  it  eveiy 
now  and  then  iiJl  it  becomes  quite  smooth;  then  strain  it 
through  a  sieve  into  a  basin ;  put  it  back  into  the  stew-pan ; 
season  it  with  ssdt  and  the  juice  of  a  small  lemon ;  beat  up  the 
yelks  of  two  eggs  well  with  about  three  table-spoonfius  of 
milk,  strain  it  tlvough  a  sieve  into  your  sauce,  stir  it  well 
and  keep  it  near  the  fire,  but  be  sure  and  do  not  let  it  boili  for 
it  will  curdle. 

Ob»,  A  convenient  veil  for  boiled  fowls,  &c.  whose  com- 
plexions are  not  invitin|r. 

Mem.  With  the  assistance  of  the  Magazine  of  Taste 
(No.  463)  you  may  give  this  sauce  a  variety  of  flavours. 

Obi,  Becnamel  implies  a  thick  white  sauce,  approaching  to 
a  batter,  and  takes  its  name  from  a  wealthy  French  Mar- 
quis, maUre  (Thdtel  de  Louis  XIF;  and  famous  for  his  patronage 
of  ^  Ui  Officiers  de  Bouche^^  who  have  immortalized  him,  by 
calling  by  his  name  this  delicate  composition. 

Most  of  the  French  sauces  take  their  name  from  the  person 
whose  palate  they  first  pleased,  as  *'a  to  MdintenonC*  or 
from  some  famous  cook  who  invented  them,  as  **  Sauce 
Rpbert,"  '<  a  to  Montizeur,*"  &c. 

We  have  in  the  English  kitchen,  our  ^^  Argyll*'  for  gravy, 
and  the  little  *'  Sandwich,"  *^monumerUum  are  perefunusy 


-**  And  thai  Momtbith 


Hai,  hy  one  tomI,  wvtd  bis  name  fttmi  death.** 

Kuf o's  Art «/  Ctoktry* 

Poivrade  Sauce. — (No.  36$.) 
This,  as  its  title  tells  us,  is  a  sauce  of  French  extraction* 


The  foUowing  receipt  is  from  **La  Cuiuifdere  Baurgeaise^^ 
pag6  406. 

'*  Put  a  bit  of  butter  as  big  as  an  egg  into  a  stew-pan  with 
two  or  three  bits  of  onion,  carrot,  and  turnip,  cut  in  slices, 
two  eschalots,  two  cloves,  a  bay-leaf,  thjrme,  and  basil ;  keep 
turning tiiem in  the  pan  till  they  get  a  little  colour;  shake  in 
some  flour,  and  add  a  glass  of  red  wine,  a  glass  of  water,  a 
spoonfid  of  vinegar,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  boil  half  an 
hour;  skim  and  strain  it." 

Mustard  in  a  miniUe, — (No.  369.) 

Mix  -very  gradually,  and  rub  together  in  a  mortar,  an  ounce 
of  flour  of  mustard,  with  three  table-spoonfuls  of  milk  (cream 
is  better),  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  the  same  of  sugar; 
rub  them  well  together  till  quite  smooth. 

Ohs.  Mustard  made  in  this  manner  is  not  at  all  bitter,  and 
is  therefore  instantly  ready  for  the  table. 

N.B.  It  has  been  said  that  flour  of  mustard  is  sometimes 
adulterated  with  common  flour,  &c.  &c. 

Mustard. — (No.  370.) 

Mix  (by  degrees,  by  rubbinff  together  in  a  mortar)  the  best 
Durham  flour  of  mustard,  with  vinegar,  white  wine,  or  cold 
water,  in  which  scraped  horseradish  has  been  boiled ;  rub  it 
weU  together  for  at  least  ten  minutes,  till  it  'is  perfectly 
smooth;  it  will  keep  in  a  stone  jar  closely  stopped,  for  a 
fortoigfat :  only  put  as  much  into  the  mustard-pot  as  will  be 
used  in  a  day  or  two. 

The  ready-made  mustard  prepared  at  the  oil  shops  is 
mixed  with  about  one-fourth  part  salt :  this  is  done  to  pre- 
serve it,  if  it  is  to  be  k^t  long ;  otherwise,  by  all  means, 
omit  it.    The  best  way  of  eating  salt  is  in  substance. 


*  * 


See  also  recipe  No.  437. 


Obs.  Mustard  is  the  best  of  all  the  stimulants  that  are 
employed  to  give  energy  to  the  digestive  organs.  It  was  in 
hiffh  favour  with  our  forefathers;  in  the  JSTortkwnberland 
thusduAd  Book  for  1513,  p.  18,  is  an  order  for  an  annual 
supply  of  160  gallons  of  mustard* 

Some  opulent  epicures  mix  it  with  sherry  or  Madeira 
wine,  or  distilled  or  flavoured  vinegar,  instead  of  horseradish 
water. 

Tlie  French  flavour  their  mustard  with  Champaigne  and 
other  wines,  or  with  vinegar  flavoured  with  capers,  anchovies, 


9€0  GftAVnU  AKB  BAVCSB, 

tanragODy  elder,  basil,  bnrhet,  eaililic,  eschalot,  or  celeiy,  see 
No.  395  to  No.  403 :  warming  it  with  Cayenne,  or  the  various 
spides;  sweet,  savoury,  fine  herbs,  truffles,  catchup,  &c. 
^c,  and  seem  to  consider  mustard  merely  as  a  vehicle  of 
flavours. 

N.B.  In  Mons.  Matlle  et  Aclocque*s  catalogue  of  Parisian 
"^Bma  Bons^  there  is  a  list  of  twenty-eight  differwitly  fla- 
voured mustards. 

Soft,— (No.  371.) 

Is  {^^aiiorvm  condirhentorum  candimerUumtV  as  Plutarch 
calls  it,)  sauce  for  sauce. 

Common  salt  is  more  relishing  than  basket  salt ;  it  should 
be  prepared  for  Uie  table  by  drymg  it  in  a  Dutch  oven  before 
the  fire ;  then  put  it  on  a  clean  paper,  and  roll  it  with  a  rolling 
pin ;  if  you  pound  it  in  a  mortar  till  it  is  quite  fine,  it  will  look 
as  well  as  basket  salt.    Maiden  salt  is  still  more  piquarUe* 

\*  Select  for  table-use  the  lumps  of  salt. 

Ods.  Your  salt-box  mupt  have  a  close  cover,  and  be  kept 
in  a  dry  place. 

* 

Salad  mixture.^'So.  373.    See  also  Nos.  138*  and  453.) 

Endeavour  to  have  your  salad  herbs  as  fresh  as  possible ; 
if  you  suspect  they  are  not  ^  morning  gathered,'*  they  will 
be  much  refreshed  by  lying  an  hour  or  two  in  spring«*water ; 
then  carefully  wash  and  pick  them,  and  trim  off  sdl  the  worm- 
eaten,  slimy,  cankered,  dry  leaves ;  and,  after  washing,  let 
them  remain  a  while  in  the  colander  to  &rain :  lastly,  swing 
them  gently  in  a  clean  napkin:  when  properly  picked  imd 
cut,  arrange  them  in  the  salad  dish,  mix  the  sauce  in  a  soup 
plate,  and  put  it  into  an  ingredient  bottle,-*  or  pour  it  down 
the  side  of  the  salad  dish^  and  don't  stir  it  up  till  the  mouths 
are  ready  for  it. 

if  thie  herbs  be  young,  f^sh  gathered,  trimmed  neatly,  and 
drained  dry,  and  the  sauce-maker  pMonders  patiently  over  the 
following  directions,  he  cannot  fail  obtaining  the  fame  of 
being  a  very  accomplished  salad-dresser. 

Boil  a  couple  of  eggs  for  twelve  minutes,  and  put  them  in 
a Jbasin  of  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes ;  the  yelks  must  be 
quite  cold  and  hard,  or  they  will  not  incorporate  with  the  in- 

*  These  are  lold  at  the  glaae-sliope  under  the  name  of  xmoorpobatoki  :  we  fe- 
cominend  the  laace  to  be  miied  in  theaci  and  the  company  can  then  take  it  or  letTe 
u,asthejrlike. 


Ns 


GKATUS  AlTD  8417CII88.  261 

gredieBf  8.  Rub  them  through  a  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
and  mix  them  with  a  table-spoonful  of  water*  or  fine  double 
cream ;  then  add^two  table-spoonfuls  of  oil  or  melted  butter ; 
when  these  are  well  mixed,,  add,  by  degrees,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  or  powdered  lump  sugar,  and  the  same  of  made 
mustard:  when  these  are  smoothly  united,  add  very  gradu- 
ally three  table-spoonfidfl  of  vinegar;  rub  it  with  the  other 
ingredients  till  tlwroughly  incorporated  with  them;  cut  up 
the  white  of  the  eggj  and  garnish  the  top  of  the  salad  with 
it.  Let  the  sauce  remain  at  the  bottom  of  the  bowl,  and  do 
not  stir  up  the  salad  tiU  it  is  to  be  eaten :  we  recommend 
the  eaters  to  be  mindAil  of  the  duty  of  mastication,  without 
the  due  performance  of  which,  all  undressed  vegetables  are 
troublesome  company  for  the  principal  viscera,  and  some  are 
even  dangerously  indigestible. 

Boiled  Salad, 

This  is  best  compounded  of  boiled  or  baked  onions  (if 
Portugal  the  better),  some  baked  beet-root,  cauliflower,  or 
broccoli,  and  boiled  celery  and  French  beans,  or  any  of 
these  articles,  with  the  common  salad  dressing;  added  to 
this,  to  give  it  an  enticing  appearance,  and  to  give  some  of 
the  crispness  and  freshness  so  pleasant  in  salad,  a  small 
quantity  of  raw  endive,  or  lettuce  and  chervil,  or  bumet, 
strewed  on  the  top :  this  is  by  far  more  wholesome  than  the 
raw  salad,  and  is  much  eaten  when  put  on  the  table. 

N.B.  The  above  sauce  is  equally  good  with  cold  meat, 
cold  flsh,  or  for  cucumbers,  celery,  radishes,  &c.  and  all 
the  other  vegetables  that  are  sent  to  table  undressed:  to 
the  above,  a  little  minced  onion  is.  generally  an  acceptable 
addition. 

06s.  Salad  is  a  very  compound  dish  with  our  neighbours 
the  French,  who  always  add  to  the  mixture  above,  black 
pepper,  and  sometimes  savoury  spice. 

The  It^ians  mince  the  white  meat  of  chickens  into  this 
sauce. 

The  Dutch,  cold  boiled  turbot  or  lobster;  or  add  to  it  a 
spoonful  of  grated  parmesan  or  old  Cheshire  cheese,  or 
mince  very  fine  a  littte  tarragon,  or  chervil,  bumet,  or  young 
onion,  celery,  or  pickled  ghetkins,  &c. 

Joan  CromwelPs  grand  salad  was  composed  of  e^ual  parts 
of  almonds,  raisins,  capers,  pickled  cucumbers,  slurunps,  and  ' 
boiled  turnips. 

This  mixture  is  sometimes  made  with  Qream,  oiled  butter 


262  okAViBs  Ain>  sAiJCEfl. 

(see  No.  260*),  or  some  good  Jelly  of  meat  (which  many 
prefer  to  the  finest  Florence  ch1\  and  flavoured  with  salaid 
mixtm«  (No.  463),  basil  (No.  397),  or  cress  or  celery  vinegar 

iNo.  397*),  horseradish  vinegar  (No.  399*),  cucimiber  vinegar 
No.  399),  and  06s.  to  No.  116  of  the  Appendix ;  tarragon,  or 
elder  vinegar,  essence  of  celery  (No.  409),  walnut  or  lemoii 
pickle,  or  a  sliee  of  lemon  cut  mto  dice,  and  essence  of  an- 
chovy (No.  433). 

Forcemeat  Stuffings. — (No.  373.) 

Forcemeat  is  now  considered  an  indispensable  accompani^ 
roent  to  most  made  dishes,  and  when  composed  with  good 
taste,  gives  additional  spirit  and  relish  to  even  that  **  sove- 
reign of  savouriness,^'  turtle  soup. 

It  is  also  sent  up  in  patties,  and  for  stuffing  of  veal,  game, 
poultry,  &o. 

The  ingredients  should  be  so  proportioned,  that  no  one 
flavour  predominates. 

To  give  the  same  stuffing  for  veal,  hare,  &c.  argues  a 
poverty  of  invention;  with  a  little  contrivance,  you  may 
make  as  great  a  variety  as  you  have  dishes. 

I  have  given  receipts  for  some  of  the  most  favourite  com- 
positions, and  a  table  of  materials,  a  glance  at  which  will 
enable  the  ingenious  cook  to  make  an  infinite  variety  of 
combinations:  the  first  column  containing  the  spirit,  the 
second  the  substance  of  them. 

The  poignancy  of  forcemeat  should  be  proportioned  tO  the 
savouriness  of  the  viands,  to  which  it  is  mtended  to  give  an 
additional  zest.  Some  dishes  require  a  very  delicately 
flavoured  forcemeat,  for  others,  it  must  be  full  and  high 
seasoned.  What  would  be  piquarUe  in  a  turkey,  would  be 
insipid  with  turtle. 

Tastes  are  so  different,  and  the  praise  the  cook  receives 
will  depend  so  much  on  her  pleasing  the  palate  of  those  she 
works  for,  that  all  her  sagacity  must  foe  on  the  alert,  to  pro- 
duce the  flavours  to  whicn  her  employers  are  partial.  See 
pi^s  45  and  46. 

Most  people  have  an  acquired  and  peculiar  taste  in  stuff"- 
ings,  &c.,  and  what  exactly  pleases  one,  seldom  is  precisely 
wnat  another  considers  the  most  agreeable :  and  after  aU  the 
contrivance  of  a  pains-taking  palatician,  to  combine  her 
^*  hauls  godOs"  in  the  most  harmonious  proportions- 

"  Tbe  very  dub  one  likes  the  best, 
U  aeld,  or  tntipid,  to  tbe  rett  '* 


VttnFFTSQB* 


263 


Custom  is  all  in  all  in  matters  of  taste :  it  is  not  that  one 
penon  is  naturally  fond  of  this  or  that,  and  another  natu- 
rally averse  to  it ;  but  that  one  is  used  to  it,  and  another  is 
not. 

The  consistency  of  forcemeats  is  rather  a  difficult  things 
to  manage ;  they  are  almost  always  either  too  light  or  too 
heavy.  j 

Take  care  to  pound  it  till  perfectly  smooth,  and  that  all 
the  ingredienti/  afre  thoroughly  incorporated. 

Forcemeat-balls  must  not  be  larger  than  a  small  nutmeg. 
If  .they  are  for  brown  sauce,  flour  and  fry  them;  if  for 
,wluite,  put  them  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  for  three 
minutes :  the  latter  are  by  far  the  most  delicate. 

N.B.  If  not  of  sufficient  stifihess,  it  falls  to  pieces,  and 
makes  soup,  &c.  grouty  and  very  unsightly. 

Sweetbreads  and  tongues  are  the  favourite  materials  for 
forcemeat. 


MATERIALS  USED  FOR  FORCEMEAT,  STVFFlNeS.  &C. 


Fresh  and  green, 

or  in  dried 
powder  (No.461). 


Spirit. 

Common  tbyme. 

Lemon-thyme. 

Orange-thyme. 

Sweet  maijoram. 

Summer  and 

Winter  savoury. 

Sage. 

Tarragon  (No.  306). 

ChevfU. 

Burnet  (No.  399). 

Basil  (No  397). 

Bay-leaf. 

Truffles  and 

Moreils. 

Hnshroom  powder  (No.  439). 

Onions. 

Eschalot  (No.  403). 

Garlic. 

IJemon-peel  (see  Nos.  407  and  408). 

fflirimpe  (No.  175) 

Prawns. 

Crabs. 

Lobstws  (Nos.  176  and  178). 

Oj'Bten. 

Anebovy  (No.  433).  ^^^ 

Dressed  tok«ub  (see  N.B.  to  No.  373). 

Ham. 

Bac(m. 


Black  or  white  pepper. 

Allspice. 

Mace.         > 

Cinnamon 

Ginger. 

Nutmegs. 

Cloves. 

Capers  and  pickleg  (mincod  or  pounded) 

Savoury  powder  (No.  465). 

Soup  hero  powder  (No.  467). 

.Curry  powder  (No.  455). 

Cayenne  (Na  ^). 

Zest  (Na  855). 

SVBSTASCBS. 

Hour. 

Crumbs  of  bread. 

Parsley  (see  N.B.  to  No.  961). 

Spinage. 

Bailed  onion. 

Mashed  potatoes  (No.  106). 

Yelks  of  bard  eggs  (No.  574). 

Mutton. 

Beef. 

Veta  suet,*  or  marrow. 

Cairs  udder,  or  brains. 

Parboiled  sweetbread. 

Veal,  minced  and  pounded,  and 

Potted  meats,  dec.  (No.  503.) 


*  If  you  have  no  suet,  the  best  substitute  for  it  is  about  one-third  part  the  quan- 
tity of  butter. 


264  sTVtFuioa* 

For  liquidss  you  have  meat  giavy,  lemQn«j\ii<^,  s^tup  of 
leoMUis  (Noe.  391  and  477)9  essence  of  anchovy  (Np.  433), 
the  varioiui  vegetable  essences  (No.  407),  mushroom  catchup 
(No.  439),  and  the  whites  and  yelks  of  eggs,  wines,  and  th^ 
essence  of  spices. 

Si^ffing  far  Veal^  roast  Turkey^  ¥\mU  ^c— (No.  374.) 

Mince  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet i)|^€4]nari^w  is 
better),  the  same  weight  of  bread-crumbs,Two  xtrachras.  of 
parsley-leaves,  a  drachm  and  a  half  of  swfi^j^fujoram  os» 
lemon-thyme,  and  the  same  of  grated  lemon-pee}  and  onicMft>^ 
chopped  as  fine  as  possible,  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  poind  « 
thoroughly  together  with  the  yelk  and  white  of  two  eggsu^ 
and  secure  it  in  the  veal  with  a  skewer,  or  sew  it  in  with  ahir 
of  thread. 

Make  some  of  it  into  balls  or  sausages;  flour  them,  and 
boil,  or  fry  them,  and  send  them  up  as  a  garnish,  or  in  a  side 
dish,  with  roast  poultry,  veal,  or  cutlets,  &c. 

N.B.  This  is  about  the  quantity  for  a  turkey  poult :  a  very 
large  turkey  wiU  take  nearly  twice  as  much.  To  the  above 
may  be  added  an  ounce  of  dressed  ham ;  or  use  equal  parts 
of  the  above  stufGLag  and  pork  sausage  meat  (No.  87.) 
pounded  well  together. 

Oht,  Good  stuffing  has  always  been  considered  a  dtef- 
cTcewre  in  cookery :  it  has  given  immortality  to 

**  Poor  Ro£er  Fnoler,  who  *d  a  generous  mind, 
Nor  would  autamit  to  have  his  hand  confined, 
But  aimed  at  aD,— yet  never  could  excel 
In  any  thing  but  tu^f/iwof  hia  veal." 

jSzns'b  JtH  of  €»9keryf  p.  113. 

Veal  Forcemeat. — (No.  376.) 

Of  undtessed  lean  veal  (after  you  have  scraped  it  quite 
fine,  and  free  fropi  skin  and  sinews),  two  ounces,  the  same 
quantity  of  beef  or  veal  suet,;  and  the  same  of  bread-crumbs; 
chop  fine  two  drachms  of  patsley,  one  of  lemonrpeel,  one,  of 
sweet  herbs,  on^  of  onion,  and  half  a  diachm.  of  mace,  or 
allspice,  .beaten  to  fine  powder;  pound  all  together  in  a  mpi# 
tar ;  break  into  it  the  yelk  ai^fl  white  of  an  egg ;  rub  it  i^  up 
well  together^  and  season  it  wiith  a  little  pepper  apd  salt. 

Oi».--This  may  be  mad^  mc^re  savoury  by  the  addition  of 
cold  b9i]e4  pickled  tongue,  anchoyyi  eschalot,  Cayenne  oe 
curry  ponder,  &e- 


FORCBXSATf.  265 

Sttsfing  far  Turk^  or  Fo»l»,  4"^— (No.  377.) 

Take,  the  foregoing  composition  for  the  roast  turkey,  or 
add  the  soft  part  of  a  dozen  oysters  to  it :  .an  anchovy,  or  a 
Utile  grated  ham,  or  tongue,  if  you  like  it,  is  still  more  relish- 
ing. ;FiU  the  4;raw  of  the  fowl,  ^c. ;  but  do  not  cram  it  so 
as  to  disfigoie  its  shape. 

Pork  sausage  meat  is  sometimes  used  to  stuff  turkeys  and 
fowls ;  or  j[ri^»  and  sent  up  as  a  garnish. 

Q>oo9e  or  Dnek  Sti^nff,—(So.  378.) 

Chop  very  fine  about  two  ounces  of  onion,  of  green  sage- 
leaves  about  an  ounce  (both  unboiled),  four  ounces  of  bread- 
crumbs, a  bit  of  butter  i^bout  as  big  as  a  walnut,  &c.,  the 
y^lk  and  white  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt :  some 
add  to  this  a  minced  apple. 

FcH*  another,  see  roasted  goose  and  duck  (Nos«j69  and  61), 
which  latter  we  like  as  forcemeat-balls  for  mock  turtle ;  then 
add  a  little  lemon-peel,  and  warm  it  with  Cayenne. 

Stisffing  for  i&re.--(No.  37d.) 

Two  ounces  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine ;  three  ounces  of  fine 
bread-crumbs ;  parsley,  a  drachm ;  eschalot,  half  a  drsu^un ; 
a  drachm  of  marjoram,  lemon-thyme,  or  winter  savoiuy  ^  a 
drachm  of  grated  lemon-peel,  and  the  same  of  pepper  ajad 
salt:  mix  these  with  the  white  and  yelk  of  an  egg;  do  not 
ihaKe  it  thin— it  must  be  of  cohesive  consistence :  if  your 
stuffing  is  not  stiff  enough,  it  will  be  good  for  nothing :  put 
it  in  the  hare,  and  sew  it  up. 

\*  If  the  liver  is  quite  sound,  you  may  parboil  it,  and 
mince  it  very  fine,  and  add  it  to  the  above. 

Forcemeat'JBctUs  for  Turtle,  Mock  Turtle,  or  Mode  Dishet, 
(No.  380.    See  also  No.  375.) 

Pound  some  veal  in  a  marble  mortar ;  rub  it  through  a  sieve 
Avith  as  much  of  the  udder  as  you  have  veal,  or  stout  a  third 
•f  the  quantity  of  butter:  put  some  bread-crumbs  into  a 
^ew-pan,  moisten  them  with  milk,  add  a  little  chopped 
parsley  and  eschalot,  rub  them  well  together  in  a  mortar  till 
they  forma  smooth  paste ;  put  it  through  a  sieve,  and,  when 
cold,  pound,  and  mix  all  together,  with  the  yelks  of  three 
eggs  boiled  hard;  season  it  with  salt,  pem)er,  and  curry 
powder,  or  Cayenne ;  add  to  it  the  yelks  of^two  raw  eggs ; 
rub  it  well  together,  and  make  small  balls:  ten  minutes 
before  your  soup  is  ready,  put  them  in. 

Z     • 


166  F0SCSHEAT8. 

Egg  Ai^.— (No.  381.) 

Boil  four  effgs  for  ten  minutes,  and  put  them  into  cold 
water;  when  msy  are  quite  cold,  put  the  yelks  into  a  mortar 
with  the  yelk  of  a  raw  egg^  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  same  of 
chopped  parsley,  as  much  salt  as  will  lie  on  a  shilling,  and  a 
little  black  pepper,  or  Cayenne;  rub  them  well  together,  roll 
them  into  small  balls  (as  they  swell  in  boiling);  boil  them  a 
couple  of  minutes. 

Brain  BaUs.  ' 

See  No.  247,  or  beat  up  the  brains  of  a  cflrin  the  way,  we 
have  aboye  directed  the  egg* 

(Jurry  BaUt  fir  Mock  Turtle,  Veal,  Poultry,  Made  DMes,  ^c. 

(No.  382.) 

Are  made  with  bread-crumbs,  the  yelk  of  an  egg  boiled 
hard,  and  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  about  half  as  big,  beaten  toge- 
tiler  in  a  mortar,  and  seasoned  with  curry  powder  (No.  455) : 
make  and  prepare  small  balls,  as  directed  in  No.  381. 

jFm^  Forccm«a<.— (No.  383.) 

Take  two  ounces  of  either  turbot,sole,  lobster,  shrimps,  or 
oys&rs;  ftee  from  skin,  put  it  in  a  mortar  with  two  ounces 
of  fresh  butter,  one  ounce  of  bread-crumbs,  the  yelk  of  two 
eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  little  eschalot,  crated  lemon-peel,  and 
parsley,  minced  very  line ;  then  pound  it  well  till  it  is  tho- 
.  roughly  mixed  and  quite  smooth ;  season  it  with  salt  and 
Cayenne  to  your  taste ;  break  in  the  yelk  and  white  of  one 
egg,  rub  it  well  together,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Oysters 
parboiled  and  minced  fine,  and  an  anchovy,  may  be  added. 

Ze$t  £a/Zs.-~(No.  386.    See  No.  255.) 
Prepared  in  the  same  way  as  No.  381. 

Orange  or  Lemon-peel^  to  mix  with  Stuffing. — (No.  387.) 

Peel  a  Seville  orange,  or  lemon,  very  thin,  taking  off  only 
the  fine  yellow  rind  (without  any  of  the  white) ;  pound  it  in  a 
mortar  with  a  bit  of  lump  sugar;  rub  it  well  with  the  peel; 
by  degrees  add  a  little  of  the  forcemeat  it  is  to  be  mixed  with : 
when  it  is  well  ground  and  blended  with  this,  mix  it  with  the 
whole:  there  is  no  other  way  of  incorporating  it  so  well. 

Forcemeats,  &c.  are  frequently  spoiled  by  the  insufficient 
mixing  of  the  ingredients. 


STORE    SAUCES.  267 

dlotded  or  iOotted  Cream.— (No;  388.) 

The  luilk  which  is  put  into  the  pans  one  morning  stands 
till  the  next ;  then  set  the  pan  on  a  hot  hearth^  or  in  a  copper 
tray*  half  full  of  water;  put  this  over  a  stove ;  in  from  tien 
to  twenty  minutes,  accordmg  to  the  quantity  of  the  milk  and 
the  size  of  the  pan,  it  will  be  done  enough ;  the  sign  of  which 
is,  that  bladders  rise  on  its  surface ;  this  denotes  that  it  is  near 
lK)iling,  which  it  must  by  no  means  do;  and  it  must  be 
instantly  removed  from  the  fire,  and  placed  in  the  dairy  till 
the  next  morning,  when  the  fine  cream  is  thrown  up,  and  is 
« ready  for  the  table,  or  for  butter,  into  which  it  is  soon  con- 
verted by  stirring  it  with  the  hand. 

N.B.  This  receipt  we  have  not  proved. 

Raspberry  Vinegar. — (No.  390.) 

The  best  way  \o  make  this,  is  to  pour  three  pints  of  the 
best  white. wine  vine;^  on  a  pint  and  a  half  oi  fresh- 
gathered  red  raspbemes  in  a  stone  jar,  or  China  bowl 
(neither  glazed  earthenware,  nor  any  metallic  vessel,  must 
be  used) ;  the  next  day  strain  Uie  liquor  over  a  like  quantity 
of  fresh  raspberries ;  and  the  day  following  do  the  same. 
Then  drain  off  the  liquor  without  pressing,  and  pass  it 
through  a  jelly  bag  (previously  wetted  with  plain  vinegar) 
into  a  stone  jar,  with  a  pound  of  pounded  lump  sugar  to  each 
pint.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  stir  it  up,  cover  down 
the  jar,  and  set' it  in  a  saucepan  of  water,  and  Keep  it  boiling 
for  an  hour,  taking  off  the  scum ;  add  to  each  pmt  a  glass 
of  brandy,  and  bottle  it :  mixed  in  about  eight  parts  of  water, 
it  is  a  very  refreshing  and  delightful  summer  drink.  An 
excellent  cooling  beverage  to  assuage  thirst  in  ardent  fevers, 
colds,  and  inflammatory  complaints,  &c.  and  is  agreeaUe  to 
most  palates. 

See  No.  479*. 

N.B.  We  have  not  proved  this  receipt. 

Syrup  of  Ltmons, — (No.  391.) 

The  l>est  season  for  lemons  is  from  November  to  March, 
Put  a  pint  of  fresh  lemon-juice  to  a  pound  and  three« 
quarters  of  lump  sugar;  dissolve  it  by  a  gentle  heat^;  skim  it 
till  the  surface  is  quite  clear;  add  an  ounce  of  Ain-cut 
iemon-peel;  let  them  simmer  (very  gently)  together  for  a 

*  A  hvbM^mmrU,   See  note  to  No.  485. 


268  «TOBE  8AUCS8. 

few  minutesi  and  mn  it  tfaroiigh  a  flanneL    When  cold,  bottle 
and  eoA  it  closely,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place.    Or^ 

Disaohre  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  (avoirdupois)  of  citric, 
t.  e.  crystallized  lemon  acid,  in  a  pint  of  clarified  syrup  (No. 
475) ;  flavour  it  with  the  peel,  with  No.  408,  or  dissolve  the 
acid  in  equal  parts  of  simple  syrup  (No.  475),  and  S3rrup  of 
lemon-peel,  as  made  No.  393. 

3*«  Juliet's  Orange  Syrvpfor  Punch  or  Puddings.— (So.  392.) 

Squeeze  the  oranges,  and  strain  the  jiuce  Irom  the  pulp 
into  a  large  pot ;  boil  it  up  with  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine 
sugar  to  each  point  of  juice ;  s&im  it  well ;  let  it  stand  till 
cdd ;  then  bottle  it,  and  cork  it  well. 

06«. — This  makes  a  fine,  soft,  mellow-ilayoured  punch; 
and,  added  to  melted  butter,  is  a  good  relish  to  puddings. 

Syrup  rf  Orange  or  Lemon-^eL — (No.  393.) 

Of  fresh  outer  rind  of  Seville  orange  or  lemon-peel,  three 
ounces,  apothecaries*  weight ;  boiling  water  a  pint  and  a  half; 
infuse  them  for  a  night  in  a  close  vessel ;  then  strain  the 
liquor :  let  it  stand  to  settle ;  and  having  poured  it  off  clear 
from  the  sediment,  dissolve  in  it  two  pounds  of  double-re- 
fined loaf  sugar,  and  make  it  into  a  S3rrup  with  a  gentle  heat. 

Obs. — ^In  making  this  syrup,  if  the  su^ar  be  dissolved  in 
the  infusion  with  as  gentle  a  heat  as  possible,  to  prevent  the 
exhalation  of  the  volatile  parts  of  the  peel,  this  S3n*up  will 
possess  a  great  share  of  the  fine  flavour  of  the  orange,  or 
lemon-peel. 

Vinegar  for  Salads. — (No.  395.) 

^  Take  of  tarragon,  savoury,  chives,  eschalots,  three  ounces 
each ;  a  handful  of  the  tops  of  mint  and  balm,  all  dry  and 
pounded ;  put  into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  with  a  gallon  of 
best  vinegar ;  cork  it  close,  set  it  in  the  sun,  and  in  a  fort- 
night strain  ofi*,  and  squeeze  the  herbs ;  let  it  stand  a  day  to 
settle,  and  then  strain  it  through  a  filtering  bag*"  Froip 
Parmentier's  j9Hc2ejfair£  les  Vinaigres,  Svo.  1805,  p.  205. 

Tarragon  Ftncg-ar.— (No.  396.) 

This  is  a  very  agreeable  addition  to  soups,  salad  sauce 
(No.  455),  and  to  mix  mustard  (No.  370).  Fill  a  wide- 
mouthed  bottle  with  fresh-gathered  tarraffon-leaves,  t.  e. 
between  midsummer  and  Michaelmas  (which  should  be 
gathered  on  a  dry  day,  just  before  it  flowers),  and  pick  the 


STOBX.  8AU6B8.  l{ftd 

teaveK  off  thfe  8Ca]k8»  and  dry  them  a  lit^e  before  the  five$ 
cover  them  with  the  best  vinegar ;  let  them  steep  foixrteeii. 
days ;  then  strain  through  a  fiannei  jeUy  bag  tm.it  is  fine; 
then  pour  it  into  half-pint  bottles.;  cork  them  e.arefuHy«  imd 
keep  theiB  in  a  dry  place*. 

Ubs.  You  may  prepare  elder-flowers  and  herbs  in  the  same 
manner;  elder  and  tarragon  are  those  in  most  general  use  in 
this  country. 

Our  neighbours,  the  French,  prepare  vinegars  flavoured 
with  celery,  cucumbers,  capsicums,  garlic,  eschalot,  onion, 
capers,  chervil,  cress-seed,  bumet,  truffles,  Seville  oran^ 
peel,  ginger,  &c. ;  in  short,  they  impregnate  them  with 
almost  every  herb,  froit,  flower,  and  spice,  separately,  and  in 
innumerable  combinations. 

Messrs.  Mailfe  et^Aclocque,  Vinaigriers  a  PariSf  sell  sixty- 
jfive  sorts  of  variously  flavoured  vifiegar,  and  twenty-eignt 
different  sorts  of  mustard. 

Basil  Vinegar  or  Wtne^-^Qio.  397.) 

Sweet  basil  is  in  full  perfection  about  the  middle  of  August; 
Pill  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  withr  the  fresh  green  leavea  of 
basil  (these  give  much  finer  and  more  flavour  than  ^  dried), 
and  cover  ii^m  with  vinegar,,  or  wine,  and  let  them  steep  for 
ten'  days :  if  you  wish  a  very  strong  essence,  strain  the 
liquor,  put  it  on  some  fresh  leaves^  and  let  them  steep  four- 
teen days  more.' 

Obs.  This  is  a  very  agreeable  addition  to  sauces,  soups, 
and  to  the  mixture  usu^y  made  for  salads.  See  Nos.  ^2 
and  453. 

It  is  a  secret  the  makers  of  mock  turtle  may  thank  us  for 
telling;  a  table-spoonful  put  in  when  the  soup  is  finished 
will  impregnate  a  tureen  of  soup  with  the  basil  and  acid 
flavours,  at  very  small  cost,  when  fresh  basH  and  lemons  are 
extravagantly  dear. 

The  flavour  of  tiie  other  sweet  and  savoury  herbs,  c^ery, 
&c.  may  be  procured,  and  preserved  in  the  same  manner 
(No.  409,  or  No.  417),  by  inrustng  them  in  wine  or  vinegar. 

Cress  Vinegar. — (No.  397*.) 

Dry  and  pound  half  an  ounce  of  cresswseed  (sueh  aft  is 
sown  in  the  garden  with  mustard),  pour  upon  it  a  qtaas^oi 
1km  best  vinegar,  le^  it  atee^  ton  days,  sludung  it  up  er&ey 
day. 

Obs^^  This  is  veiy  stroqgly  flavoured  virith  cxesB  }  and  fbr 
salads  andcoldniieatsy  ^c.  it  is  a  great  favourite  wAl many : 

Z3 


270  STOBB  «AVCI8. 

die  quart  of  sauce  eoats  <mly  a  halC-pieimy  more  than  the 
▼inegar. 

CeLery  vinegar  is  made  in  the  same  mann^. 

The  crystal  vine^  (No.  407*),  which  is,  we  belieire,  the 
P3nrolieneous  acid,  is  the  best  for  receiving  flavours,  having 
scarcely  any  of  its  own. 

Grem  MiU  Fttw^'ar,— (No.  398.) 

Is  made  precisely  in  the  same  manner,  and  with  the  same 
proportions  as  in  No.  397. 

Ohs* — ^la  the  early  season  of  housed  lamb,  green  mint 
is  sometimes  not  to  be  got ;  the  above  is  then  a  welcome 
substitute. 

Burnet  or  Cucumber  J^w^ar.— (No.  399.) 

This  is  made  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  directed  in 
No.  397.  The  flavour  of  bumet  resembles  cucumber  so  ex- 
actly, that  when  infused  in  vinegar,  the  nicest  palate  would 
pronounce  it  to  be  cucumber. 

.06«.— This  is  a  very  favourite  relish  with  cold  meat, 
salads,  &c. 

Bumet  is  in  best  season  from  midsummer  to  Michaelmas. 

Horseradish  Vinegar. — (No.  399*.) 

Horseradish  is  in  highest  perfection  about  November. 

Pour  a  quart  of  best  vinegar  on  three  ounces  of  scraped 
horseradish,  an  ounce  of  minced  eschalot,  and  one  drachm 
of  Cayenne ;  let  it  stand  a  week,  and  you  will  have  an  ex- 
cellent relish  for  cold  beef,  salads,  &c.  costing  scarcely  any 
thing. 

N.B.  A  portion  of  black  pepper  and  mustard,  celeiy  or 
cress-seed,  may  be  added  to  the  above. 

06s.^Horseradish  powder  (No.  458*). 

Garlic  Fincg-ar.— <No.  400.) 

Garlic  is  ready  for  this  purpose  ftom  midsummer  to 
Michaelmas. 

Peel  and  chop  two  ounces  of  garlic,  pour  on  them  a  quart 
of  white  wine  vinegar,  stop  the  jar  close,  and  let  it  steep 
ten  days,  shaking  it  well  every  day ;  then  pour  off"  the  clear 
liquor  into  small  bottles. 

Obs. — The  cook  must  be  careful  not  to  use  too  much  of 
this;  a  few  drops  of  it  will  give  a  pint  of  gravy  a  sufficient 


STOEE  BAVCS8,  271 

smack  of  the  garlic,  the  flavour  of  which,  when  sliffht  and 
weU  blended,  is  one  of  the  finest  we  have ;  when  used  in  ex- 
cess, it  is  the  most  offensive. 

The  best  way  to  use  garlic,  is  to  send  up  some  of  this 
vinegar  in  a  cruet,  smd  let  the  company  flavour  their />wn 
sauce  as  they  like. 

N.B.  The  most  elegant  preparation  Of  the  onion  tribe  is 
the  eschalot  wine,  No.  403. 

Eschalot  Flneg-ar,— (No.  401.) 

Is  made  in  the  same  manner,  and  the  cook  should  never 
be  without  one  of  these  usefiil  auxiliaries ;  they  cost  scarcely 
any  thing  but  the  little  trouble  of  making,  and  will  save  a 
great  deal  of  trouble  in  flavouring  soups  and  sauces  with  a 
taste  of  onion. 

N.B.  Eschalots  are  in  high  perfection  during  July,  August, 
and  September. 

Eschalot  fRfW.— (No.  402.) 

Peel,  mince,  and  pound  in  a  mortar,  three  ounces  of 
eschalots,  and  infuse  them  in  a  pint  of  sherry  for  ten  days ; 
then  pour  off  the  clear  liquor  on  three  ounces  more  eschalots, 
and  let  the  wine  stand  on  them  ten  days  longer. 

Obs. — This  is  rather  the  most  expensive,  but  infinitely  the 
most  elegant  preparation  of  eschalot,  and  imparts  the  onion 
flavour  to  soups  and  fauces,  for  chops,  steaks,  or  boiled 
meats,  hashes,  &c.  more  a^eably  than  any :  it  does  not 
leave  any  unpleasant  taste  m  the  mouth,  or  to  the  breath ; 
nor  repeat,  as  almost'all  other  preparations  of  garlic,  onion, 
&c.  do. 

N.B.  An  ounce  of  scraped  horseradish  may  be  added  to 
the  above,  and  a  little  thin-cut  lemon-peel,  or  a  few  drops  of 
No.  408. 

Camp  Vinegar. — (No.  403.) 

Cayenne  pepper,  one  drachm,  avoirdupois  weight. 

Soy,  two  table-spoonfuls. 

Walnut  catchup,  four  ditto. 

Six  anchovies  chopped. 

A  small  clove  of  garlic,  minced  fine. 

Steep  an  for  a  month  in  a  pint  of  the  best  vinegar,  fre- 
quently shaking  the  bottle :  strain  through  a  tamis,  and  keep 
it  in  sma.ll  bottles,  corked  as  tightly  as  possible. 


Obyenne  F(^«*.«.— (No.  404.) 

Mr.  Accum  has  informed  the  poblie  (see  his  book  on 
AdtiteiniUma)  that  from  some  specimens  that  came  direct 
to  bim  fr(Mn  India,  and  others  obtained  from  respectable  oil 
shops  in  London,  he  has  extracted  lead ! 

'' Poreign  Cayenne  pepper  il^  an  indiscriminate  mixture  of 
the  powder  of  the  dried  pods  of  itianv  species  of  capsicum?, 
especially  of  the  bird  pepper,  which  is  the  hottest  of  all. 
As  it  comes  to  us  from  the  West  Indies,  it  changes  the  in- 
fusion of  turnsole  to  a  beautiful  green,  probably  owing  to 
the  salt,  which  is  always  added  to  it-,  and  the  red  oxide  of 
lead,  with  which  it  is  said  to  be  adttlteratod.^'  Dui«eAN*s 
New  Edinburgh  Ditpensary,  1819,  Article  Capneumi  p.  81. 

The  Indian  Cayenne  is  prepared  in  a^very  careless  man- 
ner, and  often  looks  as  if  the  pods  had  lain  till,  they  were 
decayed,  before  they  were  dried :  this  accounts  for  the  dirty 
brown  appearance  it  commonly  has.  If  properly  dried  as 
soon  as  gathered,  it  will  be  of  a  clear  red  colour :  to  give  it 
the  complexion  of  that  made  with  good  fresh-gathered 
eapsicums  or  Chilies,  some  annatto,  or  other  vegetable  red 
colouring  matter,  is  pounded  with  it :  this,  Mr.  A.  assures 
us,  is  frequen%  adulterated  with  Indian  red»  t.  e.  ^*  red 
lead  r 

When  Cayenne  is  pounded^  it  is  mixed  with  a  eonsidesa- 
ble  portion  of  salt,  to  prevent  its  flying  up  and  hurting  the 
eyes :  this  might  be  avoided  by  grinding  it  in  a  mill,  which 
may  easily  be  made  close  enough,  especially  if.it  be  passed 
through  a  second  time,  and  then  sifled  through  a  fine  drum- 
headed  sieve,  to  produce  as  fine  a  powder  as  can  be  obtained 
by  poimding ;  however,  our  English  chilies  may  be  pounded 
in  a  de^  mortar  without  any  danger. 

The  flavour  of  the  Chilies  is  very  superior  to  that  of  the 
capsicums,  and  will  be  good' in  proportion  as  they  are  dried 
as  soon  as  possible,  taking  care  they  are  not  burned. 

Take  away  the  stalksj  and  put  the  pods  into  a  colander; 
set  it  before  the  fire ;  they  will  take  full  twelve  hours  to 
dry;  then  put  tiiem  into  a  movtar,  with  ^^^fourth  their 
weight  of  salt,  and  pound  them,  and  rub  them  till  they 
are  fine  as  possible,  and  put  them  into- a  well'Stopped  bottle. 

N.B.  We  advise  those  who  are  fond  of  Cayeiine  not  to 
think  it  too  much  trouble  to  make  it  of  English  Chilies-;  therti 
is  no*  other  way  of  being  sure  it  is  genuine,  and  t^y  will 
(^ain  a  pepper  oi  much  finer  flavour,  without  half  the  heat 
of  the  foreign* 

A  hundred  large  Chilies,  costing  only  two  shillings,  will 


8T08X  SAUCfiS.  27S 

pioduee  yoa  abont  two  oiiiiee«  of  Oayeiuie,so  it  is  as  cheap 
as  the  commonest  Cayemie. 

Four  hundredi  Chilies^  when  ike  stems  were  taken  off, 
weighed  half  a  pound;  and  when  dried,  produced  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  Cayenne  -pepper.    ' 

Elsseme  of  CBty<fifM.'<«-(No.  408.) 

Put  half  an  ounce  of  Cayenne  pepper  (No.  404)  into  half 
a  pint  of  brandy  or  wine ;  let  it  steep  for  a  fortnight  and  then 
pour  off  the  clear  liquor* 

This  is  nearly  equal  to  fresh  Chili  juice. 

06». — This  or  the  Chili  vinegar  (No.  405*^  is  extremely 
convenient  for  the  extempore  seasoning  and  fijdishing  of 
soups,  sauces,  &c.,  its  flavour  being  instantly  and  equally 
di^sed.  Cayenne  pepper  varies  so  much  in  strength,  that 
it  is  impossible  to  season  soup  any  other  way  to  the  precise 
point  of  piqtuince* 

0^*7*  FifTw^ar.— (No.  405».) 

This  is  commonly  made  with  the  foreign  bird  pepper;  but 
you  will  obtain  a  much  finer  flavour  from  infusing  fifty  fresh 
red  English  Chilies  (cut  in  half,  or  pounded)  in  a  pint  of  the 
best  vinegar  for  a  tortnight,  or  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
Cayenne  pepper,  No.  404. 

Ubs. — Many  people  cannot  eat  fish  without  the  addition  of 
an  acid,  and  Cayenne  pepper :  to  such  palates  this  will  be  an 
agreeable  relish. 

CkUi,  or  Cayemie  Wine.-^No,  406.) 

Pound  and  steep  fifty  fresh  red  Chilies,  or  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  Cayenne  pepper,  in  half  a  pint  of  brandy,  white 
wine,  or  claret,  for  fourteen  days. 

Obs. — This  is  a  '*  bonne  boucne*^  for  the  lovers  of  Cayenne, 
of  which  it  takes  up  a  larger  proportion  of  its  flavour  than 
of  its  fire ;  which  being  instantly  diffused,  it  is  a  very  useful 
auxiliary  to  warm  and  finish  soups  and  sauces,  &c. 

Essence  of  Lemon'peeL'^{NQ.  407.) 

Wash  and  brush  clean  the  lemons ;  let  them  get  perfectly 
dry:  take  a  lump  of  loaf  sugar,  and  rub  them  till  all  the 
yellow  rind  is  taken  up  by  the  sugar :  scrape  off  the  surface 
of  the  sugar  into  a  preserving  pot,  and  press  it  hard  down ; 
cover  it  very  close,  and  it  MriU  keep  for  some  time* 


S74  STOBE  SAUCXS. 

In  the  same  way  you  may  gel  the  essenee  of  Seville 
orange^Beel. 

0(f.  This  method  of  procuring  and  preserving  the.  flavour 
of  lemon-peely  by  making  an  oUo-MctJutrumj  is  far  superior 
to  the  c<Hnmon  practice  of  paring  off  the  rind,  or  gratmg  it, 
and  pounding,  or  mixing  tnat  with  sugar :  by  this  process 
you  obtain  the  whole  of  the  fine,  fragrant,  essential  oil,  in 
which  is  contained  ihe  flavour. 

Aftjfiaal  Lcmofi-^ce.— <No.  407*.) 

If  you  add  a  drachm  of  lump  sugar,  pounded,  and  six 
drops  of  No.  406,  to  three  ounces  of  crystal' vinegar,  which 
is  the  name  given  to  the  pyroligneous  vinegar,  you  will  have 
an  excellent  substitute  for  lemon^juice — ^for  fish  sauces  and 
soups,  and  many  other  culinary  purposes.  The  flavour  of 
the  lemon  may  also  be  communicated  to  the  vinegar  hy  in- 
fusing some  lemon-peel  in  it. 

N.fi.  The  pyroli^eous  vinegar  is  perfectly  free  from  all 
flavour,  save  that  of  the  pure  acid;  therefore,  it  is  a  yery 
valuable  menstruum  for  receiving  impregnations  from  van« 
ous  flavouring  materials. 

The  p3nroligneou8  acid  seems  likely  to  produce  quite  a 
revolution  in  the  pocess  of  curing  hams,  herrings,  &c.  &c. 
See  Tilloch's  Pkdosophical  Magazine^  1831,  No.  173,  p.  12. 

^itdesHnce  <^  Lemon-peeL — (No.  408.) 

Best  oil  of  lemon,  one  drachm,  strongest  rectified  spirit, 
two  ounces,  introduced  by  degrees  till  the  spirit  kills,  and 
completely  mixes  with  the  oil.  This  elegant  preparation 
possesses  all  the  delightful  fragrance  and  flavour  of  the 
freshest  lemon-peel. 

Obs.  A  few  drops  on  the  sugar  you  make  punch  with  will 
instantly  inmregnate  it  with  as  much  flavour  as  the  trouble* 
some  and  tedious  ipetbod  of  grating  the  rind,  or  rubbing  the 
sugar  on  it. 

It  will  be  found  a  superlative  substitute  for  fresh  lemon- 
peel  for  every  purpose  that  it  is  used  for:  blanc  mange, 
.jellies,  custards,  ice,  negus,  lemonade,  and  pies  wad  puddings, 
stufiings,  soups,  sauces,  ragodts,  &c. 

See  also  No.  393. 

Tincture  of  Lenum-peel-^No.  408*.) 
A  very  easy  and  economical  way  of  obtaining,  and  pre- 


8TOB£  SAVCES.  275 

serving  the  flsToiir  of  lemon-peel,  is  to  /ill  a  wide-mouihed 
pint  bottle  half  full  of  brandy,  or  proof  spirit ;  and  when 
yon  use  a  lemon,  pare  the  rind  off  very  thin,  and  put  it  into 
the  brandy,  &c.  t  in  a  fortnight  it  will  impregnate  the  spirit 
with  the  flavour  very  strongly. 

Essence  of  Gefery.— (No.  409.) 

Brandy,  or  proof  spirit,  a  quarter  of  a  pint. 

Celery«seed  bruised,  half  an  ounce,  avoirdupois  weight. 

Let  it  steep  for  a  fortnight. 

06$.— -A  few  drops  will  immediately  flavour  a  pint  of  broth, 
and  are  an  excellent  addition  to  pease,  and  other  soups,  and 
the  salad  mixture  of  oil,  vinegar,  &c.  (No.  39d.) 

N.B.  To  make  celery  sauce,  see  No.  389. 

Aromatic  Essence  of  Gti^r.— <No.  411.) 

Three  ounces  of  fresh-grated*  ginger,  and  two  ounces  of 
thin-cut  lemon-peel,  into  a  quart  of  brandy,  or  proof  spirit 
(apothecaries'  measure);  let  it  stand  for  ten  days,  shaking 
it  up  each  day. 

Oo*. — The  proper  title  for  this  would  be  "  tincture  of  gm- 
ger :'"  however,  as  it  has  obtained  the  name  of  *'  essence,** 
so  let  it  be  called. 

N.B.  If  ginger  is  taken  to  produce  an  immediate  effect, 
to  warm  the  stomach,  or  dispel  flatulence,  this  is  the  best 
preparation. 

Essence  ofMUpicefir  muUing  of  FFtne.— (No.  4l3.)  * 

Oil  of  pimento,  a  drachm,  apothecaries*  measure^  strong 
spirit  of  wine,  two  ounces,  mixed  by  degrees :  a  few  dropa 
"vVill  give  the  flavour  of  allspice  to  a  pint  of  gravy,  or 
mulled  wine,  or  to  make  a  bishop.  Mulled  wine  made  with 
Burgundy  is  called  bishop ;  with  old  Rhenish  wine^  cardinal ; ' 
and  with  Tokay,  Pope.    Ritteb^s  Weivlehres^  p.  200 

Tincturs^  of  Mspiec-^No.  413.) 

Of  allspice  bruised,  three  ounces,  apothecaries*  weight. 
Brandy,  a  quart. 

*  Tlie  fragrant  aromu  of  ginger  to  lo  extrvmely  volatile,  that  it  evaporaiM  dmort 
SB  10011  as  it  la  powdered ;  and  the  fine  lemoo-peel  ^o4t  flieg  off  nreaenUy. 
I^Tinetttrea  are  nmeli  finer  flavoured  thaA  esMnces. 


276  STOSJB   8AVCES, 

Let  it  steep  a  fortnight,  occasionally  shaking  it  up;  then 
pour  off  the  clear  liquor :  it  is  a  most  gratefiit  addition  in  all 
cases  irhere  allspice  is  used,  for  i^^oaking'  a  bishop,  or  to 
iBidled  wine  extempore,  or  in  gravies,  &c.,  or  to  flavour  and 
preserve  potted  meats  (No.  503).  See  Sot  Saks  BhOSifE*6 
Obs.  on  Mlmce^  p.  96. 

Tinciure  o/' AWjii^.— (No.  413*.) 

Is  made  with  the  same  proportions  of  nutmeg  aiid  brandy, 
as  ordered  for  allspice.    See  Ob$.  to  No.  4I5< 

Eisence  of  Qaoe  and  Jlfaee.-^No.  414.) 

Strongest   spirit  of    wine,   two   ounces,  apothecaries' 

measure. 
Oil  of  nutmeg,  or  clove,  or  mace,  a  drachm,  apothecaries' 

measure. 

Tincturt  of  Oove.-- (No.  415.) 

Cloves  bruised,  thre^  ounces,  apothecaries*  weight. 
Brandy,  one  quart. 

Let  it  steep  ten  days :  strain  it  through  a  flaufmel  sieve. 
Obs. — Excellent  to  flavour  "  bishop,"  oir "  mulled  wine. 


»* 


Essence  of  Cinnamon. — (No.  416.) 

Stronprest  rectified  spirit  of  wine,  two  ounces. 

Oil  of  Cinnamon,  one  drachm,  apothecaries'  measure. 

Tincture  of  H^imamon. — (No.  416*.) 

This  exhilarating  cordial  is  made  by  pouring  a  bottle  of 
genuine  cognac  (No.  471,)  on  three  ounces  of  bruised  cinna- 
mon (cassia  will  not  do). 

This  restorative  was  more  in  vogue  formerly  than  it  is 
now :  a  tea-spoonful  of  it,  and  a  lump  of  sugar,  in  a  glass  of 
yood  cherry  or  Madeira,  with  the  yelk  of  an  ^%g  beat  up  iii 
it,  was  called  "  balsamum  viict.^ 

"  Cur  mori«a%ir  homo,  qui  sumit  de  einnamomo  V* — *^  CiimainoQ  is  verie  comfort 
able  to  the  atomacke,  aud  the  priBcipoU  partes  of  the  bodife;** 

"  V^entrictdum^  jeewr^  lienenii  cerebrum^  nervotgtu  juvai  et  rohtraty — ''I  rctekon 
it  a  ipeat  treasure  for  a  student  to  have  by  him  in  his  doset,  to  take  oowr  and  theu 
afpOiinful."-<;dOAK*s  £(aoe»  9/  ^d4AA,4(0. 1581,  p.  III. 

Ohs. — Two  tea-spoonfuls  in  a  wine-glass  of  water,  are  a 
present  and  pleasant  remedy  in  nervous  languors,  and  ih 
relaxations  of  the  bowels :  in  the  latter  case,  five  drops  of 
laudanum  may  be  added  to  each  dose.^ 


ffltttB  SAUCES.  277 

Essence  ^Jlfaij/orani.— (No.  417.) 

Strongest  rectified  spirit,  two  ounces. 

Oil  of  origanum,  one  dradun*  apothecaries'  measure. 

VegetMe  Essetices.^No.  417*.) 

The  flavour  of  the  Tariooa  sweet  and  savoury  herbs  may 
be  obtained  by  i^ombining  Uieir  essential  oMs  with  reetifiecL 
spirk  of  wine,  in'the  proportion  of  one  drachm  of  the  former 
to  two  ounces  of  the  latter,  or  by  picking  the  leaves,  and 
la3ing  them  for  a  couple  of  hours  in  a  warm  place  to  dry, 
and  then  filling  a  large-mouthed  bottle  with  them,  and  pouring 
on  them  wme,  brandy,  proof  spinty  or  vinegar,  and  letting 
them  steep  for  fourteen  days. 

Sai^-herb*  %Vt^.— (No.  430.) 

Of  lemon«thyme. 

Winter  savoury, 

Sweet  maijoram. 

Sweet  basU, — half  an  ounce  of  each. 

Lemon-peel  grated,  two  drachms. 

Eschalots,  the  same. 

Celery-seed,  a  drachm,  avoirdupois  weight. 

Prepare  them  as  directed  in  No.  461 ;  and  infuse  them  in 
a  pint  of  brandy,  or  proof  spirit,  for  ten  days :  they  may  also 
be  infused  in  wine  or  vinegar,  but  neither  extract  the  flavour 
of  the  ipgredients  half  so  well  as  the  spirit. 

■ 

l^rii  of  Savoury  Spice, — (No.  421.)  • 

Black  pepper,  an  ounce ;  allspice,  half  an  ounce,  pounded 
fme. 

Nutmeg  grated,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce,  avoirdupois  weight. 

Infuse  m  a  pint  of  brandy,  or  proof  spirit,  for  ten  days  ; 
or,  infuse  the  ingredients  enumerated  in  No.  457,  in  a  quart 
of  brandy,  or  proof  spirit,  for  the  like  time. 

Soup-herb  and  Savoury  Spice  «%?»n<.— (No.  422.) 

Mix  half  a  pint  of  soup-herb  spirit  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  spirit  of  savoury  spice. 

Oo#. — These  preparations  are  valuable  auxiliaries  to  imme- 
diately heighten  the  flavour,  and  finish  soups,  sauces,  ragoiits, 

*  For  the  srason,  Ace.  wben  Uieie  berbs,  &e.  cone  in  perfection,  and  iuiw  to  dry 
them,  see  No.  461. 

A  a 


2T8  BJLVCE   SCrPBBLATXVS. 

ite^  will  sa^e  mndi  time  and  trouble  to.the  cook,  and  keep 
for  twenty  yean. 

Retuhfar  Chops,  4-c.— (No.  423.) 

Poimd  fine  an  ounce  of  black  pepper,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  allspice,  with  an  ounce  of  ssdt,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
Bcrapea  horseradish,  and  the  same  of  eschalots,  peeled  and 
quartered;  put  these  ing^dients  into  a  pint  of  mushrocNn 
catchup,  or  walnut  pickle,  and  let  them  steep  for  a  fortnight, 
and  then  strain  it. 

Ob$. — ^A  tea^spoonM  or  two  of  this  is  generally  an 
acceptable  addition,  mixed  with  the  gravy  usually  sent  up 
for  cmpB  and  steaks  (see  No.  356) ;  or  added  to  thick  melted 
butter. 

Fish  Sauce.^No.  435.) 

Two  wine-glasses  of  port,  and  two  of  walnut  pickle,  four 
of  mushroom  catchup,  half  a  dozen  anchovies,  pounded,  the 
like  number  of  eschalots  sliced  and  pounded,  a  table.>spoonful 
of  soy,  and  half  a  drachm  of  Cayenne  pepper;  let  them 
simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes ;  strain  it,  and  when  cold, 
put  it  into  bottles ;  well  corked,  and  sealed  over,  it  will  keep 
for  a  considerable  time. 

Obs, — ^This  is  commonly  called  Quints  sauce,  and  was 
given  to  me  by  a  very  sagacious  sauce-maker. 

Keeping  Mustard.-^No,  427.) 

Dissolve  three  ounces  of  salt  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water, 
or  rather  vinegar,  and  pour  it  hot  upon  two  ounces  of  scraped 
liorseradish ;  closely  cover  down  the  jar,  and  let  it  stand 
twenty-four  hours :  strain,  and  mix  it  by  degrees  with  the 
best  Durham  flour  of  mustard,  beat  well  together  tOl  quite 
smooth,  and  of  the  proper  thickness;  put  into  a  wide* 
mouthed  bottle,  and  stop  it  closely.  For  the  various  ways 
to  flavour  mustard,  see  No.  370. 

Sattce  SuperkUive.* — (No.  429.) 

Claret,  or  port  wine,  and  mushroom  catchup  (see  No.  439), 
a  pint  of  each. 

*  We  hope  tiiig  title  will  not  ofll^nd  those  who  may  qaote  agalnit  h  the  old 
adaffe,  "that  good  appetite  ]» the  best  sauce/'— Allowing  this  to  be  generally  true 
which  is  a  more  candid  confewion  than  coaid  be  expected  ftom  a  cook),  wf  dare 
say,  the  mi^ty  of  oar  readers  will  vote  with  us,  that  there  are  many  good  things 
(fish  especioUy)  that  would  be  nther  Insipid  without  a  Uttle  saiiee  of  another  kind. 


SAtJCB  SUFSBLATIVfi.  27^ 

Half  a  piiit  of  walnut  or  other  pickle  Uqaon 

Poundea  anchovies,  four  ounces. 

Fresh  lejmon-peel,  pared  rery  thin,  an  ounce. 

Peeled  and  shced  eschalots,  the  same. 

Scraped  horseradish,  ditto. 

Allspice,  and 

Black  pepper  powdered,  half  an  ounce  each. 

Cayenne,  one  drachm,  or  burry-powder,  three  drachms,    t 

Celery-seed  bruised,  a  drachm.  All  avoirdupois  weight* 
Put  these  into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  stop  it  close,  shake  it 
up  every  day  for  a  fortnight,  and  strain  it  (when  some  think 
it  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  quarter  or  a  pint  of  soy,  or 
thick  biowninffy  see  No.  33d),  and  you  will  have  a  "  delkious 
double  relish.'* 

%*  This  composition  is  one  of  the  "  chefs  d'ceuvre"  of 
many  experiments  I  have  made,  for  the  purpose  of  enabling 
the  good  housewives  of  Great  Britain  to  prepare  their  own 
sauces :  it  is  equally  agreeable  with  fish,  game,  poultry,  or 
ragodts,  &c.,  and  as  a  fair  lady  may  m&e  it  herself,  its 
relish  will  be  not  a  little  augmented,  by  the  certainty  that  all 
the  ingredients  are  good  and  wholesome. 

Obs. — Under  an  mfinity  of  circumstances,  a  cook  may  be 
in  want  of  the  substances  necessary  to  make  sauce:  the 
above  composition  of  the  several  articles  from  which  the 
various  gravies  derive  their  flavour,  will  be  found  a  veiy 
admirable  extemporaneous  substitute.  By  mixing  a  large 
table-spoonful  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  thickened  melted 
butter,  broth,  or  No.  252,  five  minutes  will  finish  a  boat  of 
very  relishing  sauce,  nearly  equal  to  drawn  gravy,  and  as 
likely  to  put  your  lingual  nen'os  into  good  humour  as  any 
thing  I  know. 

To  make  a  boat  of  sauce  for  poultry,  &c.  put  a  piece  of 
butter  about  as  big[  as  an  egg  into  a  stew-pan,  set  it  on 
the  fire;  when  it  is  melted,  put  to  it  a  table-spoonful  of 
flour;  stir  it  thoroughly  together,  and  add  to  it  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sauce,  and  by  degrees  about  half  a  pint  of 
broth,  or  boiling  water,  let  it  simmer  gently  over  a  slow  fire 
for  a  few  minutes,  skim  tt  and  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and 
it  is  ready. 


"  Wherefore  did  Nature  pour  her  bounties  forth, 
With  auch  a  full  and  unwithdra^lng  hand, 
Oovering  the  earth  with  odours,  fruits,  and  flocks, 
Thronging  the  sea  with  spawn  innumerable ; 
0nt  all  to  please  and  sate  the  curious  taste  V* 

Milton. 


280  wmtaacE  or  ancrovt. 

The  goodness  of  this  preparation  depends  almost  entirely 
on  having  fine  mellow  fish^  that  have  been  in  pickle  long 
enough  (i  «.  about  twelve  months)  to  dissolve  easily,^  yet 
are  not  at  all  rusty. 

Choose  those  that  are  in  the  state  they  come  over  in,  not 
such  as  have  been  pdt  into  fresh  picfle,  mixed  with  red 

Salt,*  which  some  add  to  improve  the  con^lexion  of  the 
h;  it  has  been  said,  that  ouers  have  a  trick  of  putliz^ 
anchovy  liquor  on  pickled  sprats  ;t  you  will  easily  discover 
this  by  washing  one  of  them,  aind  tasting  the  nesh  of  it, 
which  in  the  fine  anchovy  is  mellow,  red,  and  high-flavoured, 
and  the  bone  moist  and  oily.  Make  only  as  much  as  will 
soon  be  used,  the  fresher  it  is  the  better. 

Put  ten  or  twelve  anchovies  into  a  mortar,  and  pound 
them  to  a  l>ulp;  put  this  into  a  very  clean  iron,  or  silver,  or 
very  well  tinned  saucepan ;  then  put  a  large  table-spoonful 
of  cold  spring-water  (we  prefer  good  vinegar)  into  the 
mortar ;  shake  it  round,  and  pour  it  to  the  pounded  anchovies, 
set  them  by  the  side  of  a  slow  fire,  very  frequently  stirring 
them  together  till  they  are  melted,  which  they  wiU  be  in  ihe 
course  of  five  minutes.  Now  stir  in  a  quarter  of  a  drachm 
of  good  Cayenne  pepper  (No.  404),  and  let  it  remain  by 
the  side  of  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes  longer ;  then,  while  it 
is  warm,  rub  it  through  a  hair-sieve,];  with  the  back  of  a 
wooden  spoon. 

The  essence  of  anchovy,  which  is  prepared  for  the  com- 
mittee of  taste,  is  made  with  double  the  above  quantity  of 
water,  as  they  are  of  opinion  that  it  ou^t  to  be  so  thin  as 
not  to  hang  about  the  sides  of  the  bottle ;  when  it  does,  the 
large  surface  of  it  is  soon  acted  upon  by  the  air,  and  becomes 
rancid  and  spoils  all  the  rest  of  it. 

A  roll  of  thin-cut  lemon-peel  infused  with  the  anchovy, 
imparts  a  fine,  fresh,  delicate,  aromatic  flavour,  which  is 
very  grateful ;  this  is  only  recommended  when  you  make 
sauce  for  immediate  use ;  it  will  keep  much  better  without : 
if  you  wish  to  acidulate  it,  instead  of  water  make  it  with 
artificial  lemon-juice  (No.  407*),  or  add  a  little  of  Coxwelf  s 
concrete  acid  to  it. 

*  "  Several  samples  which  we  examined  of  this  fish  saace,  have  been  found 
contaminated  with  Jeact/*— See  Accum  «i»  JidMlteratumt  page  388. 

t  They  may  do  very  well  for  commoD  palates ;  but  to  imitate  the  fine  flavour  of 
the  Gorgona  fish,  so  aa  to  impose  upon  a  well-edacated  g^wrmmd,  still  remains  in 
the  cataiogue  of  the  sauce-maker's  desiderata. 

X  The  economic  may  take  the  thick  remains  that  wont  peas  through  the  sieve, 
and  pound  it  with  some  floor,  and  make  anchovy  paste,  or  powder.  See  Noe.  4H 
and  435. 


SSSXKCOB  OV  AllCHOVY.  S81 

065«-^The  aftx>ve  is  tfae  proper  way  to  perfectly  diflsolre 
anchoTy,*  and  to  incorporate  it  with  the  water;  wMchtif 
completely  saturated,  will  contuiae  suspended. 

To  prevent  the  sefMiatioB  of  essence  of  anehoyy,  and 
give  it  the  appearance  of  being  fully  saturated  with  &Bh, 
various  other  expedients  have  bSen  tned,  such  as  dissolving 
the  fish  in  thin  water  gruel,  or  barley-water,  or  thickening 
it  with  mucilage,  flour,  ftc. :  when  any  of  these  tiungs 
are  added,  it  does  net  keep  half  so  well  as  it  does  without 
them;  and  to  preserve  it,  they  overload  it  with  Cayenne 
pepper. 

Mem. — You  cannot  make  essence  of  anchovy  half  so 
cheap  as  you  can  buy  it.  Thirty  prime  fish«  weigjbing  a 
pound  and  a  quarter,  and  costing  4t.  6d'.,  and  two  table-^ 
spoonfuls  of  water,  made  me  only  half  a  pint  of  essence; 
you  may  commonly  buy  that  quantity  ready-made  for  2$.^  and 
we  have  seen  an  advertisement  offering  it  for  sale  as  low  as 
2^.  6 J.  per  quart. 

It  must  be  kept  very  closely  stopped;  when  you  tap  a 
bottle  of  sauce,  throw  away  the  old  perforaled  cork,  and  put 
in  a  new  td^pet  velvet  cork ;  if  the  air  gets  to  it,  the  fish  takes 
the  rust,t  and  it  is  spoiled  directly. 

Essence  of  anchovy  is  sometimes  coloured^!  with  bole 
armeniac,  Venice  red,  &c;  but  all  these  additions  dete- 
riorate the  flavour  of  the  sauce,  and  the  palate  and  stomach 
suffer  for  the  gratification  of  the  eye,  which,  in  culinary 
concerns,  will  never  be  indulged  by  the  sagacious  gour- 
mand at  the  expense  of  these  two  primum  moldles  c^  his 
pursuits. 

*«*  Essence  of  anchovy  is  sometimes  made  wi&  sheny 
or  Madeira  wine,  or  good  mushroom  catchup  (No.  439j, 
instead  of  water.  If  you  like  the  acid  flavour,  add  a  little 
citric  acid,  or  dissolve  them  in  good  vinegar. 

N.B.  This  is  in&iitely  the  most  convenient  way  of  using 
anchovy,  as  each  guest  may  mix  sauce  for  himself,  and 
make  it  strong  or  weak,  according  to  his  own  taste. 

It  is  also  much  more  economical,  as  plain  melted  butter 
(No.  356)  serves  for  other  purposes  at  tsible. 

*  Epicure  Quin  med  to  say,  "  Of  all  Oie  bsmis  of  maniagt  I  ev«r  heaid,  iM»e 
fare  me  half  such  pleaaure  aa  tlie  union  of  delleaie  Amr^cboty  with  loodrjosK- 

t  "  Bust  in  anchovies,  If  I  *m  not  mbtaken, 
is  88  bad  as  rust  in  steel,  or  rust  in  bacon.** 

*    Toi7Na*s£^ict(rs,pa9eI4. 
t  If  you  are  not  contented  widi  the  natural  colour,  break  some  lobsters*  eggs  into 
it,  and  you  will  not  only  heighten  the  complexion  of  your  sance,  but  improve  lot 
flavour.    This  is  tiie  only  rm/s  we  can  recointiiend.    See  note  to  No>  Sd4. 

Aa^ 


282  CATCfilTTS. 

-.  * 
-./ 

Ancktroy  Paste,  or  h  Beurre  ^AnchoU. — (No.  434.) 

Pound  them  in  a  mortar;  then  rob  it  thioug^h  a  fine  sieve ; 
pot  it,  cover  it  with  clarified  butter,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool 
place. 

N.B.  If  you  have  essence  of  anchovy,  you  may  make 
anchovv  paste  extempore,  by  rubbing  the  essence  with  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  a  padte.  Juefn.-- This  is  merely 
mentioned  as  the  means  of  making  it  immediately;  it  will 
not  keep. 

06<. — ^This  is  sometimes  made  stiflfer  and  hotter  by  the 
addition  of  a  little  flour  of  mustard,  a  pickled  walnut,  spice  \\ 
(No.  460),  curry  powder  (No.  455),  or  Cayenne ;  and  it  then 
becomes  a  rival  to  "ia  veritable  sauce  d*enfer"  (No.  528\,  or 
jfdi^  a  la  diable  for  deviling  biscuits  (No.  574),  grills  (No. 
538),  &c.  It  is  an  excellent  garnish  for  fish,  put  in  pats 
round  the  edge  of  the  dish,  or  will  make  anchovy  toast  (No. 
573),  or  devil  a  biscuit  (No.  574),  &c.  in  high  style. 

Andujvy  P<mder, — (No.  435.) 

Pound  the  fish  in  a  mortar,  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  and 
make  them  into  a  paste  with  dried  flour,  roU  it  into  thin 
cakes,  and  dry  them  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  a  slow  fire ; 
pounded  to  a  fine  powder,  and  put  into  a  well-stopped  bottle. 
It  wiU  keep  for  years ;  it  is  a  very  savoury  relish,  sprinkled 
on  bread  and  butter  for  a  sandwich,  &c.  See  Oyster  Powder 
(No.  280). 

Obs. — To  this  may  be  added  a  small  portion  of  Cayenne 
pepper,  grated  lemon-peel,  and  citric  acid. 

Walnut  Catchup.--{^o.  438.) 

Take  six  half-sieves  of  green  walnut-sheUs,put  them  into 
a  tub,  mix  them  up  well  with  common  salt,  (from  two  to 
three  pounds,)  let  them  stand  for  six  days,  frequently  beating 
and  mashing  them ;  by  this  time  the  sli^lls  become  soft  and 
pulpy ;  then  by  banking  it  up  on  one  side  of  the  tub,  and  at 
the  same  time  by  raising  the  tub  on  that  side,  the  liquor  will 
drain  clear  off"  to  the  other;  then  take  that  liquor  out:  the* 
mashing  and  banking-up  may  be  repeated  as  often  as  liquor 
is  found.  The  quantify  wiU  be  about  six  quarts.  When 
done,  let  it  be  simmered  in  an  iron  boiler  as  long  as  any 
scum  arises ;  then  bruise  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ginger,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  allspice,  two  ounces  of  long  pepper, 
two  ounces  of  cloves,  with  the  above  ingredients;  let  it 
slowly  boil  for  half  an  hour;  when  bottled,  let  an  equal 


quantity  of  the  spice  go  into  each  bottle ;  when  corked*  let 
lie  bottles  be  filled  quite  up :  cork  them  tight,  seal  them 
oyer,  and  put  them  into  a  cool  and  dry  place-  for  one  year 
before  they  are  used. 

N.B.  For  the  above  we  are  indebted  to  a  respectable  oil- 
man, who  has  many  years  proved  the  receipt. 

Mushroom  CaUhvp.''-(So.  439.) 

If  you  love  good  catchup,  gentle  reader,  make  it  your- 
self,* after  the  following  directions,  and  you  will  have  a 
delicious  relish  for  made-dishes,  ragodts,  soups,  sauces,  or 
hashes. 

Mushroom  gravy  approaches  the  nature  and  flavour  of 
meat  gravy,  more  than  any  vegetable  juice,  and  is  the  super- 
lative substitute  for  it:  m  meagre  soups  and  extempore 
gravies,  the  chemistry  of  the  kitchen  has  yet  contrived  to 
agreeably  awaken  the  palate,  and  encourage  the  appetite. 

A  couple  of  quarts  of  double  catchup,  made  according  to 
the  following  receipt,  will  save  you  some  score  pounds  of 
meat,  besides  a  vast  deal  of  time  and  trouble ;  as  it  will  fur- 
nish, in  a  few  minutes,  as  good  sauce  as  can  be  made  for 
either  fish,  flesh,  or  fowl.    See  No.  307. 

I  believe  the  following  is  the  best  way  of  extracting  and 
preparing  the  essence  of  mushrooms,  so  as  to  procure  and 
preserve  their  flavour  for  a  considerable  length  of  time. 

Look  out  for  mushrooms  from  the  beginning  of  Sep- 
tember. 

Take  care  they  are.  the  right  sort,  and  fresh  gathered. 
FuU-gro'wii  flaps  are  to  be  preferred:  put  a  layer  of  these 
at  the  bottom  of  a  deep  earthen  pan,  and  sprinkle  them  with 
salt ;  then  another  layer  of  mushrooms,  and  some  more  salt 
on  them ;  and  so  on  alternately,  salt  and  mushrooms :  let 
them  remain  two  or  three  hours,  by  which  time  the  salt  will 
have  penetrated  the  mushrooms,  and  rendered  them  easy  to 
break;  then  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  or  mash  them  well  with 
your  hands,  and  let  them  remain  for  a  couple  of  days,  not 
longer,  stirring  them  up  and  mashing  them  well  each  day; 
then  pour  them  into  a  stone  jar,  and  to  each  quart  add  an 
ounce  and  a  half  of  whole  black  pepper,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  allspice ;  stop  the  jar  very  close,  and  set  it  in  a  stew-pan 
of  boilmg  water,  ai\d  keep  it  boiling  for  two  hoiurs  at  least. 

*  *'Tbe  niptihrDOBMi  employed  for  piepafing  ready-made  catclmp,  are  generally 
tboae  which  are  in  a  putreActive  stata  Ina  iewdayaaffeerthoae/tavihavebeeB 
gitbevedf  they  become  the  habltatioin  of  myriads  of  insect8.'*>-AcciJii  mi  OiUn0rs 
PoisatUj  ISmo.  1890,  p.  350. 


284 

tliiOD^  a  huT'Siere  (without  squeezing*  the  mtaahxaamB) 
into  a  clean  stew^pen ;  let  it  boil  very  gently  forinlf  an  bonr : 
those  who  are  for  superlative  catchup,  will  continue  the 
boilii^  till  the  muahroom-juioe  is  reduced  to  hsdf  the  quan- 
tity; It  may  then  be  ealled  douUe  eat-sup  or  dog-siqi.    ^ 

There  are  seyeral  advantages  attending  this  concentra- 
tion ;  it  will  keep  much  better,  aad  only  hm  the  quantity  be 
required  V  so  you  can  flavour  sauce,  &c.  without  thinning,  it : 
neither  is  this  an  extravagant  way  of  making  it,  for  merely 
the  aqueous  part  is  evaporated;  skim  it  well,  and  pour  it 
into  a  clean  dry  jar,  or  jug;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stand  in 
a  cool  place  till  next  day ;  then  pour  it  off  as  gently  as  pos- 
sible (so  as  not  to  disturb  the  settlings  at  tibie  bottom  of  the 
jug,)  through  a  tamis,  or  thick  flannel  bag,  tiU  it  is  nerfectly 
clear;  add  a  table-spoonful  of  good  brandy  to  each  pint  of 
catchup,  and  let  it  stand  as  before ;  a  fresh  sediment  win  be 
deposited,  from  which  the  catchup  is  to  be  quietly  poured  off, 
and  bottled  in  pints  or  half  pints  (wiiich  have  been  wairiied 
with  brandy  or  spirit) :  it  is  best  to  keep  it  in  such  qusmtities 
as  are  soon  usedl 

Take  especial  caic  that  it  is  closely  eoiked,  and  sealed 
down,  or  dipped  in  bottle  cement. 

If  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  it  maybe  preserted  for  a  long 
time ;  but  if  it  be  badly  coined,  and  kept  in  a  damp  ^ace, 
it  will  soon  spoil. 

Examine  it  fhmi  time  to  time,  b^  placing  a  strong  light 
hehind  the  neck  of  the  bottle,  and  if  any  pellicle  appears 
about  it,  boil  it  up  again  with  a  few  peppercorns. 

We  have  ordered  no  more  spice,  &c.  than  is  absolutely 
necessary  to  feed  the  catchup,  and  keep  it  from  ferment- 
ing, &c. 

Tlie  compound,  commonly  called  catchup,  is  generally  aii 
iigudicious  combination  of  so  many  different  tastes,  that  the 
flavour  of  the  mushroom  is  overpowered  by  a  farrago  of 
gailic,  eschalot,  anchovy,  mustard,  horseradish,  lemon-peel, 
beer,  wine,  spice,  &c. 

Cms.— A  table-spoonful  of  double  catchup  wiU  impregnate 
half  a  pint  of  sauce  with  the  full  flavour  of  musmroom,  in 
much  greater  perfection  than  either  pickled  or  powder  of 
mushrooms. 

*  The  ■queeziDgs  are  the  perqutalte  of  the  cook,  to  make  eauce  finr  the  tecond 
UMe:  do  not  doprive  her  of  It;  ft  b  the  wMt  oroAtafale  «ciwaU  yim  eaa  gtr*  her, 
•Bd  wUI  enaUe  her  to  nakenp  afood  familsr  dlimer,  with  what  would  othefwtoe 
HwMted.  After  the  nraahfooiiui  have  been  iqueezed,  diy  them  hi  the  Dttlchoten, 
•nd  make  mutimxun  powder. 


Qtitnt^iMftee  ^  Jfefiflftfoofiu.— (No.  440.) 

This  delicate  relish  is  made  bysprinkUnif  a  little  salt  orer 
either  flap  or  button  mushrooms ;  three  £>ur8  after,  mash 
them;  next  day,  strain  off  the  liquor  that  wiU  How  frmn 
them ;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  reduced  to 
half. 

It  will  not  keep  long,  but  is  preferable  to  any  of  the 
catchups,  which,  in  order  to  preserve  them,  must  have  «pice, 
&c.,  which  oveipowers  the  flavour  of  the  mushrooms. 

An  artificial  mushroom  bed  will  supply  this  all  the  year 
round. 

To. make  sauce  with  this,  see  No.  307. 

OygUr  Caichvp.'-(So.  441.) 

Take  fine  fresh  Milton  oysters ;  wash  them  in  their  own 
liquor ;  skim  it ;  pound  them  in  a  marble  mortar;  to  a  pint  of 
oysters  add  a  pint  of  sherry ;  boil  them  up,  and  add  an  ounce 
of  salt,  two  drachms  of  pounded  mace,  and  one  of  Cayenne ; 
let  it  just  boil  up  again ;  skim  it,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve, 
and  when  cold,  bottle  it,  cork  it  well,  and  seal  it  down. 

06*. — See  also  No.  280,  and  Obs.  to  No.  278. 

N.B.  It  is  the  best  way  to  pound  the^salt  and  spices,  &c. 
with  the  oysters. 

Obs. — This  composition  very  agreeably  heightens  the 
flavour  of  while  sauces,  and  wmte  made-dishes ;  and  if  you 
add  a  glass  of  brandy  to  it,  it  will  keep  good  for  a  considera- 
ble time  longer  than  oysters  are  out  of  season  in  England. 

Cockle  and  Musde  Catchup, — (No.  443.) 

May  be  made  by  treating  them  in  the  same  way  as  the 
oysters  in  the  preceding  receipt. 

Pudding  Cbte^i^.— (No.  446.) 

Half  a  pint  of  brandy,  "essence  of  punch^  (No.  479),  or 
"  Cura9oa"  (No.  474),  or  "  Noyeau,"  a  pint  of  sherry,  an 
ounce  of  thin-pared  lemon-peel,  half  an  ounce  of  mace,  and 
steep  them  for  fourteen  aays,  then  strain  it,  and  add  a 
qua|*ter  of  a  pint  of  ca^illaire,  or  No.  476.  This  will  keep 
for  years,  and,  mixed  with  melted  butter,  is  a  delicious  relish 
to  puddifigs  and  sweet  dishes.  See  Pudding  Sauce,  No.  269, 
and  the  Justice^s  Orange  S3nrup,  No.  392. 


286  POTATO  FL0I7B. 

Pbtafo^  Stardb.— (No.  448.) 

Peel  and  wash  a  pound  of  full-grown  potatoes,  grate  them 
on  a  bread-grater  into  a  deep  dish,  containing  a  quart  of 
clear  water;  stir  it  well  up,  and  then  pour  it  through  a  hair- 
sieve,  and  leave  it  ten  minutes  to  settle,  till  the  water  is  quite 
clear:  then  pour  off  the  water,  and  put  a^  quart  of  fresh 
water  to  it ;  stir  it  up,  let  it  settle,  and  repeat  this  till  the 
water  is  quite  clear ;  you  will  at  last  find  a  fine  white  powder 
at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel.  (The  criterion  of  tlfis  process 
being  completed,  is  the  purity  of  the  water  that  comes  from 
it  after  stirring  it  up.)  Lay  this  on  a  sheet  of  paper  in  a  hair- 
sieve  to  dry,  either  in  the  sun  or  before  the  fire,  and  it  is  ready 
for  use,  and  in  a  well-stopped  bottle  will  keep  good  for  many 
months. 

If  ^s  be  well  made,  half  an  ounce  (t.  e.  a  table-spoonful) 
of  it  mixed  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cold  water,  and  stirred 
into  a  soup  or  sauce,  Just  before  you  take  it  up,  will  thicken 
a  pint  of  It  to  the  consistence  of  cream. 

.06s. — ^This  preparation  much  resembles  the  *'  Indian  arrow 
root,**  and  is  a  good  substitute  for  it ;  it  gives  a  fulness  on 
the  palate  to  gravies  and  sauces  at  hardly  any  expense,  and 
by  some  is  used  to  thicken  melted  butter  mstead  of  flour. 

As  it  is  perfectly  tasteless,  it  will  not  alter  the  flavour  of 
the  most  delicate  broth,  &c. 

Cy  tke  Flour  of  Potatoes. 

'*  A  patent  has  been  recently  obtained  at  Paris,  a  gold  medal 
bestowed,  and  other  honorary  distinctions  granted,  for  the 
discovery  and  practice,  on  a  large  scale,  of  preparing  from 
potatoes  a  fine  flour;  a  sago,  a  flo^r  equal  to  ground  rice; 
and  a  semolina  or  paste,  of  which  lib.  is  equal  to  Ihlbs.  of 
rice,  lilbs.  of  vermicelli,  or,  it  is  asserted,  8U)s.  of  raw  po- 
tatoes. 

''These  pr^arations  are  found  valuable  to  mix  with 
wheaten  flour  K>r  bread,  to  make  biscuits,  pastry,  pie-crusts, 
and  for  all  soups,  gruels,  and  panada. 

^  Lar^  engagements  have  been  made  for  these  prepara- 
tions with  the  French  marine,  and  military  and  other  hos- 
pitals, with  the  approbation  of  the  facidty. 

*  "Potatoes,  In  whatever  condition,  wbetiier  spoiled  by  frost,  germination,  &c., 
provided  they  are  raw,  conatantly  afford  starch,  diflering  only  in  quality,  the  round 
gray  ones  the  most ;  a  pound  producing  about  two  ounees."— PARiuirriBB  o»  JVWrt- 
Uve  FegetabUs,  8vo.  p.  31. 

"  lOWb.  of  potatoes  yieid  KUb.  of  stan*/'— S.  Ghat's  SvppUment  t»  tke  Pkarm*- 
ttprntOf  8vo.  1831,  p.  198.  - 


COBBT  FOWDSB.  287 

>  «  An  exceUeat  bread,  it  is  said,  can  be  made  of  this  floor, 
I  at  half  the  oost  of  wheaten  bread. 

"  Heat  having  been  applied  in  these  preparations,  the  ar- 
ticles will  keep  unchanged  for  years,  and  on  board  ship,  to 
.  China  and  back ;  rats,  mice,  worms,  and  insects  do  not  in- 
fect or  destroy  this  flour. 

'*  Simply  mixed  with  cold  water,  they  are  in  ten  minutes 
fit  for  food,  when  fire  and  all  other  resource  may  be  wanted ; 
and  twelve  ounces  are  sufficient  for  a  day's  sustenance,  in 
case  of  necessity. 

^*  The  physicians  and  surgeons  in  the  hosiMtals,  in  cases 
of  great  debility  of  the  stomach,  have  employed  these  pre- 
parations wiUi  advantage. 

**  The  point  of  this  discovery  is,  the  cheapness  of  prepa- 
ration, and  the  conversion  of  a  surplus  growth  of  potatoes 
into,  a  keeping  stock,  in  an  elegant,  port2u[)le,  and  salubrious 
form." 

Salad  or  piquarUe  Sauce  Jhr  cold  Meal,  Ftshf  ^. — (No.  453.) 

See  also  No.  372. 

Pound  together 

An  ounce  of  scraped  horseradish. 

Half  an  ounce  of  salt, 

A  table-spoonful  of  made  mustard.  No.  370, 

Four  drachms  of  minced  eschalots.  No.  409, 

Half  a  drachm  of  celery-seed.  No.  409, 

And  half  ditto  of  Cayenne,  No.  404, 

Adding  gradually  a  pint  of  bumet  (No.  399),  or  tarra- 
gon vinegar  (No.  396),  and  let  it  stand  in  a  jar  a  week,  and 
then  pass  it  through  a  sieve. 


Curry  Powder. — (No.  456.) 

Put  the  following  ingredients  in  a  cool  oven  all  night,  and 
the  next  morning  pound  them  in  a  marble  mortar,  and  rub 
them  through  a&e  sieve. 

Coriander-seed,  three  ounces 3 

Turmeric,  three  ounces % 

Black  pepper,  mustard,  and  ginger,  one  ounce 

of  each 8 

Allspice  and  less  cardamoms,  half  an  ounce 

of  each 5 

Cumin-seed,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce    •    •    .  1 
Thoroughly  pound  and  mix  together,  and  keep  them  in  a 
well-stopped  bottle. 


BOtfBlfifiADISa   POWDER,  &C.  2^9 

t^vaporated,  a|id  they  will  soon  get  a  stroag^,  rank,  enikpyreii- 
matic  taste. 

N.B.  Infused  in  a  qnart  of  vinegar  or  wine,  they  make  a 
savoury  relish  for  eoups,  sauces,  &c. 

Obs.  The  spices  in  a  ragoOt  are  indispensable  to  give  it  a 
fiavoiur,  but  not  a  predominant  one ;  their  presence  should  be 
rather  supposed  than  perceived;  they  are  the  invisible  spirit 
of  good  cookery :  indeed,  a  cook  without  spiee  would  be  as 
inuch  at  a  loss  as  a  confectioner  without  sugar:  a  happy 
mixture  of  them,  and  pn^wrtion  to  each  other  and  the  omer 
ingredients,  is  the  *'  chef-d'oeuvre"  of  a  first-rate  cook. 

The  art  of  combining  spices,  &c.,  which  may  be  termed 
the  *<  harmony  of  flavours,"  no  one  hitherto  has  attempted 
to  teach:  and  ^the  rule  of  thumb"  is  the  only  gmde  tlud 
Experienced  cooks  have  heretofore  given  for  the  assistance 
of  the  novice  in  the  (till  now,  in  these  pages  explained,  imd 
rendered,  we  hope,  perfectly  intelligible  to  the  humblest  ci^ 
pacity)'  occult  art  of  cookery.  This  is  the  first  time  re- 
ceipts in  cookery  have  been  given  accurately  by  weight  or 
measure !!! 

(See  Obs.  on  "  the  education  of  a  cook's  tongue,"  pagei 
59  and  53.)  • 

Pease  Ptmder. — (No.  458») 

Pound  together  in  a  marble  mortar  half  an  ounce  each  of 
dried  mint  and  sage,  a  drachm  of  celery-seed,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  drachm  of  Cayenne  pepper ;  rub  them  through  a  fine 
sieve.  This  gives  a  very  savoury  relish  to  pease  soup,  and 
to  water  gruel,  which,  by  its  help,  if  the  eater  of  it  has  not 
the  most  lively  imagination,  he  may  fancy  he  is  sipping  good 
pease  soup. 

06*. — A  drachm  of  allspice,  or  bla(;k  pepper,  may  be 
pounded  with  the  above  as  an  addition,  or  mstead  of  the 
Cayenne* 

Horserctdisk  Poraoder, — (No:  458*.) 

The  time  to  make  this  is  during  November  and  December; 
slice  it  the  thickness  oi  a  shilling,  and  lay  it  to  dry  very 
graduaJily  in  a  Dutch  oven  (a  strong  heat  soon  evaporates  it$$ 
Savour) ;  when  dry  enough,  poundit  and  bottle  it. 
•   06fi  See  Horseradish  Vinegar  (No.  39d*j. 

Soup'hfirb  Powder,  or  Vegetahle  /?e/tsfe.— (No.  459.) 

Dried  parsley, 

Bb 


280  TO  BB7  VWE»T  HBBB8.  ^ 

Winter  savoury. 

Sweet  maijonim. 

Lemon-thyme,  of  each  two  omices ; 

Lemon-peel,  cut  veiy  thin,  and  dried,  and 

Sweet  raeil,  an  ounce  of  each. 

%*  Some  add  to  the  above  bay-leaves  and  celery-seed,  a 
drachm  each. 

Dry  them  in  a  warm,  but  not  too  hot  Dutch  oven :  when 
quite  dried,  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  and  pass  them  through 
a  double  hair-sieve ;  put  them  in  a  boiHe  closely  stopp^ 
they  will  retain  their  fragrance  and  flavour  for  several 
months. 

N.B.  These  herbs  are  in  fuU  perfection  in  July  and  Au- 
gust (see  No.  461*).  An  infusion  of  the  above  in  vinegar  or 
wine  makes  a  good  relishing  sauce,  but  the  flavour  is  best 
when  made  with  fresh-gathered  herbs,  as  directed  in  No. 
397. 

Ohs.  This  composition  of  the  fine  aromatic  herbs  is  an 
invaluable  acquisition  to  the  cook  in  those  seasons  or  situa- 
tions when  fresh  herbs  cannot  be  had ;  and  we  prefer  it  to 
the  ragoiit  powder,  No.  457 :  it  impregnates  sauce,  soup,  &c. 
with  as  much  relish,  and  renders  it  agreeable  to  the.  palate, 
and  refreshes  the  gustatory  nerves,  without  so  much  risk  of 
offending  the  stomach,  &c. 

Sovp-herb  and  Savoury  Powder,  or  ^inieuence  of 

Bagom.'^(So.  460.) 

Take  three  parts  of  soup-herb  powder  (No.  459)  to  one 
part  of  savoury  powder,  No.  457. 

Obs*  This  agreeable  combination  of  the  aromatic  spices 
and  herbs  should  be  kept  ready  prepared :  it  will  save  a 
great  deal  of  time  in  cooking  ragodts,  stuffings,  forcemeat- 
balls,  soups,  sauces,  &c. ;  kept  dry,  and  tightly  corked  down, 
its  fragrance  and  strength  may  be  preserved  undiminished 
for  some  time. 

N.B.  Three  ounces  of  the  above  will  impregnate  a  quart 
of  vinegar  or  wine  with  a  very  agreeable  relish. 

To  Dry  sweet  and  savoury  Herbs* — (No.  461.) 

For  the  following  accurate  and  valuable  information,  the 
reader  is  indebted  to  Mr.  Butleb,  herbalist  and  seedsman .        i 
(opposite  Henrietta  Street),  Covent  Garden  market.    * 

/*  It  is  very  important  to  those  who  are  not  in  the  constant 
habit  of  attending  the  markets  to  know  when  the  various 
seasons  commence  for  purchasing  sweet  herbs. 


1 


1 


TO  ]>Blr  SWSET  HfiBBSr  £91 

**  All  vegetables  are  in  the  highest  state  of  perfection,  an^ 
fiillest  of  juice  and  flavour,  just  before  they  begin  to  flower : 
the  first  and  last  crop  have  neither  the  fine  flavour,  nor  the 
perfume  of  those  whieh  are  gathered  in  the  height  of  the 
season;  that  is,  when  the  greater  part  of  the  crop  of  each 
species  is  ripe. 

"Take  care  they  are  gathered  On  a  diy  day,  by  which 
means  they  will  have  a  better  colour  when  dried.  Cleanse 
your  herbs  well  froni  dirt  and  dust  ;*  cut  off  the  roots ;  sepa- 
rate the  bunches  into  smaEer  ones,  and  dry  them  by  the  heat 
of  a  stove,  or  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  a  common  fire,  in  Such 
quantities  at  a  time,  that  the  process  may  be  speedily  finished ; 
t.  €.  *  Kill  'em  quick,'  says  a  great  botanist ;  by  this  means 
their  flavour  will  be  best  preserved:  there  can  be'  no  doubt  of 
the  propriety  of  drying  herbs,  &c.  hastily  by  the  aid  of  arti- 
ficial heat,  rather  than  by  the  heat  of  the  sun.  In  the  ap- 
plication of  artificial  heat,  the  only  caution  requisite  is  to 
avoid  burning ;  and  of  this  a  sufiicient  test  is  afibrded  by 
the  preservation  of  the  colour."  The  common  custom  is, 
when  they  are  perfectly  d^ed  to  put  them  in  bags,  and  lay 
them  in  a  dry  place ;  but  the  best  way .  to  preserve  the 
flavour  of  aromatic  plants  is  to  pick  off  the  leaves  as  soon 
as  they  are  dried,  and  to  pound  them,  and  put  them  through 
a  hair-sieve,  and  keep  them  in  weU-stopped  bottles.!  See 
No.  459. 

Basil  is  in  the  best  state  for  drjring  from  the  middle  of 
August,  and  three  weeks  after,  see  No.  397. 

Knotted  marjoram,  from  the  beginning  of  July,  and  daring 
the^ame. 

Winter  savoury,  the  latter  end  of  July,  and  throughout 
August,  see  Obs.  to  No.  397. 

Summer  savoury,  the  latter  end  of  July,  and  throughout 
August. 
.  Th3ane,  lemon-thyme,  orange-thyme,J  during  June  and 
July. 

Mint,  latter  end  of  June,  and  during  July,  see  No.  398. 

Sage,  August  and  September. 

Tarragon,  June,  July,  and  August,  see  No.  396. 

Chervil,  May,  June,  and  July,  see  No.  364. 

^  This  fai  sadly  neglected  by  thorn  who  dry  herbs  for  sale.  If  you  buy  them  ready 
dried,  before  you  pound  them,  cleanse  them  from  dirt  and  dust  by  stripping  the 
teafti  from  the  stalks,  and  rub  them  between  your  hands  over  a  hair-sieve ;  put 
them  into  the  sieve,  and  shake  them  well,  and  the  dust  will  go  ttirougb. 

t  The  common  custom  is  to  imt  them  into  paper  bags,  and  lay  them  on  a  ibelf 
in  the  kitchen,  ezpoved  to  all  the  fumes,  steam,  and  smoke,  &c. :  thus  they  soon  lose 
thAir  flavour. 

^  A  delicious  herb,  thatdeaervea  to  be  better  known. 


tH 


UABJkUSn  C9  TiUR'S 


Boniety  Junei  Julj*  and  Augfnst,  see  No*  399. 

Panlev,  May,  June,  and  July,  see  N.B.  to  No.  261. 

JPennel,  May,  June,  and  July. 

Elder  flowers,  May,  June,  and  July. 

Orange  flowers,  May,  June,  and  July. 

N.B.  Herbs  nicely  ^ed  are  a  very  acceptable  substitute 
when  fresh  ones  cannot  be  ffot ;  but,  however  carefully  dried, 
the  flavour  and  fragrance  of  the  fresh  herbs  are  ineomparaddy 
finer. 

THE  MAGAZINE  OF  TASTE.^No.  46».) 

This  is  a  convenient  auxiliairy  to  the  cook:  it  may  be 
arranged  as  ^  pyramidical  epergne  for  a  dormant  in  the  centre 
of  the  table,  or  as  a  travelbn?  store-chest. 

The  following  sketch  wifi  enable  any  one  to  fit  up  an 
assortment  of  flavouring  materials  according  to  their  own 
fancy  and  palate ;  and,  we  presume,  will  furnish  sufllcient 
variety  for  the  amusement  of  the  gustatory  nerves  of  a  tho- 
loxi^'hred  grand  gourmand  of  the  first  magnitude  (if  Cayenne 
and  garlic  nave  not  completely  consumed  the  sensibility  of 
his  pilate),  and  consists  of  a  ^  3aucb-box,^'  containing  four 
eight-ounce  bottles,*  sixteen  four  ounce,  and  eight  two-ounce 
bottles : — 


1.  PieUet. 
•%  Bftody. 

3.  Curasoft  (No.  474)- 

4.  Syrnp  (Na  475). 

5.  8alMMiQC«(NiM.379aiMi453). 
t.  PiuUiiig  catchup  (No.  446). 

7.  S^oce  superlative,  or  doable  relisli 
(No,4SB). 

&  Wataittt  pickle. 

9.  Mmhroom  catdrap  (No.  430). 
M.  Vinegar. 
11.  OU. 

18.  Moitvd  (fee  Noa.  370  and  427). 

19.  iaH(W8No.371). 

14.  Cuny  powder  (No.  455). 


15.  Soy  (No.  496). 

IS.  LemoB-ittice. 

17.  Basence  of  aiichovy  (No.  433). 

I&  Pepper. 

19.  Cayenne  (No.  405,  or  No.  406). 

ao.  Soup-herb  powder  (No.  459  )• 

81.  RagoOt  powder  (Na  457) 

SS.  Pease  powder  (No.  458). 

23.  Zeft(No.355). 

SS4.  Essence  of  celery  (No.  409). 

95.  Sweet  beribs  (No.  419). 

28.  Lemon-peel  (No.  406). 

27.  Eocbalot  wine  (No.  4QS). 

28.  Powdered  mint. 


In  a  drawer  uudtr. 


Half  a  dozen  one  ouaee  bottlei. 
Weights  and  aeales. 
A  graduated  i^ass  measure,  divided  into 
tea  ana  table-spoons. 


Nutmeg-grater. 
TaUe  ana  ten-fpoon. 
Knife  and  fork. 
A  steel,  and  a 
Small  mortar. 

*  IftiM  bottles  are  sqnare,  and  marked  to  quarter  ounces,  as  Ltkk's  gi  a^wted 
we,  it  will  save  trouble  in  compounding. 


TOAST   ANB   WATBft. 


• 

5 

13 

91 

1 

. 

14 

92 

3 

15 

98 

16 

94 

3 

17 

95 

10 

18 

96 

• 

4 

U 

19 

< 

37^ 

IS 

90 

98 

•'  N.B.  The  portable  magazine  of  taste,  alluded  to  in  page  44, 
may  be  furnished  with  a  four-ounce  bottle  for  Cognac  (No. 
471),  a  ditto  for  Cura^oa  (No.  474),  an  ounce  bottle  for 
essence  of  anchovy  (No.  433),  and  one  of  like  size  for  mush- 
room catchup. 

Toast  and  ^afer.— (No.  463.) 

Cut  a  crust  of  bread  off  a  stale  loaf,  about  twice  the  thick- 
ness toast  is  usually  cut :  toast  it  carefully  until  it  be  com- 
pletely browned  all  over,  but  not  at  all  blackened  or  burnt ; 
pour  as  much  boiling  water  as  you  wish  to  make  into  drink, 
into  the  jug;  put  the  toast  into  it,  and  let  it  stand  till  it  is 
quite  cold:  the  fresher  it  i&  the  better. 

06*.— A  roll  of  thin  fresh-cut  lemon,  or  dried  orange-peel, 
or  some  currant-jelly  (No.  475*),  apples  sliced  or  roasted, 
&c.  infused  with  the  bread,  are  grateful  additions.  N.B.  If 
the  boiling  water  be  poured  on  the  bread  it  will  break  it,  and 
make  the  drink  grouty. 

N.B.  This  is  a  refreshing  summer  drink;  and  when  the 
proportion  of  the  fluids  is  destroyed  by  profuse  penspiration, 
may  be  drunk*plentifully.  Let  a  larse  jug  be  made  early  in. 
th«  day,  it  will  then  become  warmed  by  me  heat  of.tlw  atr, 
and  ma^  be  drunk  without  danger;  which  water,  cold  as  it 
comes  from  the  wel!,  cannot  in  not  weather.    Or, 

To  make  it  more  expeditiously,  put  the  bread  into  a  mug , 
.and  just  cover  it  with  boiling  water;  let  it  stand  till  cola, 

Bb2 


294  TEWAHDIBDLE.     . 

then  fill  it  up  with  cold  spring-water,  and|K>ur  it  throogh  a 
fine  sieve. 

Obs. — The  above  is  a  pleasant  and  excellent  beverage, 
grateful  to  the  stomach,  and  deserves  a  constant  place  by  Uie 
bed-side. 

Cod  Tankardy  or  Beer  Cup. — (No.  464.) 

A  quart  of  mild  ale,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  one  of  brsmdy, 
one  of  capillaire,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  roll  of  the  peel  pared 
thin,  nutmeg  grated  at  the  top  (a  sprig  of  borrage*  or  balm), 
and  a  bit  of  toasted  bread. 

ader  CWp,— (No.  465.) 
Is  the  same,  only  substituting  cider  for  beer. 

flt>.— (No.466.) 

Keep  grated  ginger  and  nutmeg  with  a  little  fine  dried 
lemon-peel,  rub&d  together  in  a  mortar. 

To  make  a  quart  of  flip :— Put  the  ale  on  the  fire  to  warmV 
and  beat  up  three  or  four  eggs,  with  four  ounces  of  moist 
sugar,  a  tea-spoonful  of  grated  nutmeg  or  ginger,'  and  a 
quartern  of  good  old  rum  or  brandy.  W^en  the  ale  is  near 
to  boil,  put  it  into  one  pitcher,  and  the  rum  and  eggs,  &c. 
into  another;  turn  it  from  one  pitcher  to  another  tiU  it  is  as 
smooth  as  cream. 
.  N.B.  This  quantity  I  styled  one  yard  of  flannel. 

Obs. — The  above  is  set  down  in  tne  words  of  the  publicau 
who  gave  us  the  receipt. 

Tea>ahdiddle.^No.  467.) 

A  pint  of  table  beer  (or  ale,  if  you  intend  it  for  a  supple- 
ment to  your  ''.night  cap"),  a  table-spoonful  of  brandy,  and  a 
tea^spoonful  of  brown  sugar,  or  clarified  syrup  (No.  475) ;  a 
little  grated  nutmeg  or  ginger  may  be  added,  and  a  roll  of 
very  thin-cut  lemon-peel. 

ubs. — ^Before  our  readers  make  any  remarks  on  this  com- 
position, we  beg  of  them  to  taste  it :  if  the  materials  are 
good,  and  their  palate  vibrates  in  unison  with  our  own,  they 

*  "BoRRAOK  18  one  of  the  foar  cordial  flowers;"  it  comforts  the  heart,  ebeers 
ne!aiicho|y,  und  revives  the  ftintmg  «Dlrit8.  says  Salmom,  in  tlie  45ch  page  of  his 
"  Beit$ehold  09inp«nt<m,'*  London,  1719..  -And  Bvblyn.  in  page  13  of  his  Acetaria, 
says,  "The  sprigs  in  wine  are  of  known  ¥tKtue  to  revive  the  hypoehondriac,  and 
ebeer  the  hara  student.*'— Combined  with  the  ingrecUents  in  the  above  receipt,  we 
have  ftequentiy  observed  it  produce  all  the  cardiac  and  exhilarating  etttocia  w- 
cribedtok 


RICH  RASFBERBT  WINB  OR  BRANDT.  296 

^iU  find  it  one  of  the  pleasantest  beverages  they  ever  put  to 
their  lips ;  and,  as  Lord  Ruthven  says,  '^this  is  a  right  gos- 
sip^s  cup  that  far  exceeds  all  the  ale  that  ever  Mother  Bunch 
made  in  her  life-time.'*  See  his  Lordship's  ExperimmU  in 
Cookery  J  &c.  I8mo.  London,  1654,  p.  215. 

Sir  Fleetwood  Shepher^$  Sack  Po^e^.— (No.  467*.) 

"  Erom  fkined  Barbadoei,  on  the  wertera  main, 
Fetcb  racaTf  ounces  four— fetch  sack  from  fi^[iain, 
A  piatf-And  from  the  eaatern  Indian  coast 
Nutmeg,  the  glory  of  our  northern  toast ; 
0*er  flaming  coals  let  them  togeUier  heat* 
Till  the  all-conquering  sack  dinolve  the  sweet ; 
O'er  such  another  fire  put  eggs  just  ten, 
New-bom  from  tread  of  cou  and  rump  of  ben : 
Stir  them  with  steady  hand  and  consdenoe  pricUng 
To  seo  the  untimely  end  of  ten  fine  chicken : 
From  shining  shelf  take  down  the  brazen  sUUet,— 
A  quart  of  mUk  from  gentle  cow  will  fill  it 
When  boiled  and  cold,  put  milk  and  sack  to  efgt. 
Unite  them  firmly  like  toe  triple  league, 
And  on  the  fire  let  them  togetner  dwell 
Till  Miss  sine  twice— you  must  not  kiss  and  tell— 
£ach  lad  and  lass  take  up  a  silver  spoon. 
And  fall  on  fiercely  like  a  starved  dragoon.*' 

To  *o«/€  Beer.— (No.  468.) 

When  the  briskness  and  liveliness  of  malt  liquors  in  the 
cask  fail,  and  they  become  dead  and  vapid,  which  they 
generally  do  soon  after  tiiey  are  tilted;  let  them  be  bottled. 

Be  careful  to  use  clean  and  dried  bottles ;  leiaive  them  un- 
stopped for  twelve  hours,  and  then  cork  them  as  closely  as 
possible  with  good  and  sound  new  corks ;  put  a  bit  of  lump 
sugar  as  big  as  a  nutmeg  into  each  bottle :  the  beer  will  be 
ripe,  e.  e.  fine  and  sparkling,  in  about  four  or  five  weeks :  if 
the  weather  is  cold,  to  put  it  up  the  day  before  it  is  drunk, 
place  it  in  a  room  where  there  is  a  fire. 

Remember  there  is  a  sediment,  &c.  at  the  bottom  of  the 
bottles,  which  you  lAust  carefully  avoid  disturbing;  so  pour 
it  off  at  once,  leaving  a  wine-glassful  at  the  bottom. 
.  %*  If  beer  becomes  hard  or  stale,  a  few  grains  of  carbonate 
of  potash  added  to  it  at  the  time  it  is  drunk  will  correct  it, 
and  make  draught  beer  as  brisk  as  bottled  ale 

Ruk  Raspberry  Wine  or  Bremdy.'^lSo.  469.) 

Bruise  the  finest  ripe  raspberries  with  the  back  of  a  spoon; 
strain  them  through  a  flannel  bag  into  a  stone  jar,  allowing 
a  pound  of  fine  powdered  loaf  suffar  to  each  quart  of  juice ; 
stir  it  well  together,  and  cover  it  down ;  let  it  stand  for  three 


S^  TO  ILiKS  OUBAgOLi* 

days,  ■ttriinflf  It  up  each  day ;  pour  off  the  clear»  and  put  two 
qoarta  of  sheny,  or  one  of  Cognac  brandy,  to  each  quart  of 
juice !  bottle  it  off:  it  will  be  fit  for  the  glasa  in  a  fortnight. 
N.B.  Of  make  it  with  the  jelly,  Nb.  479. 

ZJi^Ketir^.— (No.  471.) 

We  haire  very  little  to  tell  from  our  own  ezperiepce,  and 
refer  our  reader  to  ^  NmtoeUe  Chimie  du  Go(U  et  de  tOdorat, 
«tf  fj^  du  DidiUaieur^du  Goq/iMur,  et  du  Parfumeur,  mis  a  la 
poft^t  de  tout  le  Monde.^    Paris,  3  torn.  8vo.  1819. 

Next  to  teaching  how  to  make  good  things  at  home,  is  the 
information  where  those  things  may  be  procured  ready  made 
of  the  best  quality. 

It  is  in  vain  to  attempt  to  imitate  the  best  foreign  liqueurs, 
unless  we  can  obtain  the  pure  vinous  spirit  with  which  they 
are  made. 

Johnson  and  Co.,  foreign  liijuenr  and  brandy  merchants  to 
his  majesty  and  the  royal  family.  No.  2,  Colonnade,  Pall  Mall^ 
are  justly  famous  for  importing  of  the  best  quality,  and  selK 
ing  in  a  genuine  state,  seventy-one  varieties  of  foreign 
liqueurs,  &;c. 

Cttm^oa. — (No.  474.) 

Put  five  ounces  of  thin-cut  Seville  orange-peel,  that  has 
been  dried  and  pounded,  or,  which  is  still  better,  of  the  fresli 
peel  of  a  fresh  shaddock,  which  may  be  bought  at  the  orange 
and  lemon  shops  in  the  beginning  of  March,  into  a  quart  of 
the  finest  and  cleanest  rectified  spirit;  after  it  has  been 
infused  a  fortnight,  strain  it,  and  add  a  quart  of  syiiip  (No.. 
475),  and  filter.    See  the  following  receipt : 

To  make  a  Quart  ofCuragoa. 

To  a  pint  of  the  cleanest  and  strongest  rectified  spirit,  add 
two.  drachms  and  a  half  of  the  sweet  oil  of  orange-peel; 
shake  it  up :  dissolve  a  pound  of  good  lump  sugar  in  a  pint 
of  cold  water;  make  this  into  a  clarified  a3pup  (No.  475); 
ivliich  add  to  the  spirit :  shake  it  up,  and  let  it  stand  tiU  the 
following  day :  then  line  a  funnel  with  a  piece  of  nraslin,  and 
that  with  filtering-paper,  and  filter  it  two  or  three  times  till 
it  is  quite  bright.  This  liqueur  is  an  admirable  cordial ;  and 
a  tea-spoonful  in  a  tumbler  of  water  is  a  very  refreshing 
summer  drink,  and  a  great  improvement  to  punchy 


KCXOKAPS  IN  A  MINUTB.  t97 

Oar^Ud  Syrup.--'(So.  475«) 

Break  into  bits  two  pounds  (avoirdupois)  of  double  refined 
lump  sugar,  and  put  it  into  a  clean  8tew-{Kan  (that  is  well 
tinned),  with  a  pint  of  cold  spring-water ;  when  the  sugar-  is 
dissolved,  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire :  beat  about  half  the 
white  of  an  egg,  put  it  to  the  sugar  before  it  gets  warm,  and 
stir  it  well  together.  Watch  it ;  and  when  it  boils  take  off 
the  scum ;  keep  it  boiling  till  no  scum  rises,  and  it  is  perfectly 
clear;  then  run  it  through  a  clean  napkin :  pm  it  into  a  close 
stopped  bottle ;  it  will  keep  for  months,  and  is  an  elegant 
lirticle  on  the  sideboard  for  sweetening. 

0&«. — ^The  proportion  of  sugar  ordered  in  the  above  syrup  is 
a  quarter  pound  more  than  that  directed  in  the  Phaimaoopceia 
of  the  London  College  of  Physicians.  The  quantity  of  sugar 
must  boas  much  as  the  liquor  is  capable  of  keeping  dissolved 
when  cold, or  it  wiQ  ferment,  and  quickly  spoil:  if  kept  in  a 
temperate  degree  of  heat,  the  above  proportion  of  sugar  may 
be  co^siderea  the  basis  of  all  syrups. 

CbpT^Ve.— (No.  476.) 

To  a  pint  of  clarified  syrup  add  a  wine-glass  of  Cura^oa 
(No.  474) ;  or  dissolve  a  drachm  of  oil  of  Neroli  in  two 
ounces  of  rectified  spirit,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  it  to  clari- 
fied syrup. 

Ltmonade  in  a  MmwU. — (No.  477.) 

Pound  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  (avoirdupois)  of  citric,  tre. 
crystallized  lemon  acid,*  with  a  few  drops  of  quintessence 
of  lemon-peel  (No.  408),  and  mix  it  by  degrees  with  a  pint 
of  clarified  syrup  (No.  475),  or  capillaire. 

For  superlative  S3nrup  of  lemons,  see  No.  391. 

O65.— The  proportion  of  acid  to  the  syrup,  was  that 
selected  (from  several  specimens)  by  the  committee  of  taste. 
We  advise  those  who  are  disposed  to  verify  our  receipt,  to 
mix  only  three  qtArters  of  a  pint  of  syrup  tot,  and  add  the 
other  quarter  if  they  find  it  too  acid. 

If  you  have  none  of  No.  408,  flavour  your  syrup  with  thin- 
cut  lemon-peel,  or  use  syrup  of  lemon-peel  (No.  393). 

A  table-spoonful  of  this  in  a  pint  of  water  will  dmmedidtely 
produce  a  very  agreeable  sherbet ;  the  addition  4)f  rum  or 
brandy  will  convert  this  into 

*  Tartaric  is  only  balf  the  price  of  citric  add ;  bot  it  is  veiy  inferiorjft  flafoiir, 
Ice. ;  and  those  who  {uqMure  tfaia  syrup  for  home  comunptioD,  will  alv^ays  use 
tUe  citric. 


298  OUKRANT,   OBAPE,    6lC.   JRLLT. 

Punch  J»r«d/y.— (No-  478.) 

Shrubt  or  Euence  qf  Punch, — (No.  479.) 

Brandy  or  rum,  flavoured  with  No.  477,  will  give  you  very 
good  extempore  **  essence  of  punch.** 

06«. — ^The  addition  of  a  ouart  of  Sherry  or  Madeira  makes 
"  punch  royal  ;**  if,  insteaa  of  wine,  the  ahove  quantity  of 
water  be  added,  it  will  make  ^  punch  for  chambermaids,'^ 
according  to  Salmon's  Cocktryy  8vo.  London,  1710.  See 
page  405 ;  and  No.  269  in  Nott's  Cbofc's  Dictionary^  8vo.  1724. 

White,  Redf  or  &ack  Currant,  Grape,  Raapherry,  $>c.  Jelly.* 

(No.  479*. ) 

Are  all  made  precisely  in  the  same  manner.  When  the 
fruit  is  full  ripe,  gather  it  on  a  dry  day :  as  soon  as  it  is  nicely 
picked,  put  it  into  a  jar,  and  cover  it  down  very  close. 

Set  the  Jar  in  a  saucepan  about  three  parts  filled  with  cold 
water ;  put  it  on  a  gentle  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  for  about 
half  an  hour.  Take  the  pan  from  the  fire,  and  pour  the  con* 
tents  of  the  jar  into  a  jelly-bag :  pass  the  jmce  through  a 
second  time ;  dp  not  squeeze  the  baf . 

To  each  pint  of  juice  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  very  good 
lump  sugar  pounded ;  when  it  is  dissolved,  put  it  into  a  pre- 
serving-pan ;  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  boil  gently ;  stirring  and 
skimming  it  the  whole  time  (about  thirty  or  forty  minutes), 
«.  e.  till  no  more  scum  rises,  and  it  is  perfectly  clear  and  fine : 
pour  it  while  warm  into  pots ;  and  when  cold,  cover  them 
with  p^)er  wetted  in  brandy. 

Half  a  pint  of  this  jelly,  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  brandy  or 
vinegar,  will  give  you  excellent  currant  or  raspberry  brandy 
or  vinegar.    To  make  sweet  sauce,  see  No.  346. 

Obs. — Jellies  from  other  fruits  are  made  in  the  same  way, 
and  cannot  be  preserved  in  perfection  without  plenty  of  good 
sugar. 

Those  who  wish  jelly  to  turn  out  very  stiff,  dissolve  isin- 
glass in  a  little  water,  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  add  it  in  the 
proportion  of  half  an  ounce  to  a  pint  of  juice,  and  put  it  in 
with  the  sugar. 

Tlie  best  way  is  the  cheapest.  Jellies  made  with  too  small 
a  proportion  of  sugar,  require  boiling  so  long;  there  is  much 
more  waste  of  juice  and  flavour  by  evaporation  than  the  due 
quantity  of  sugar  costs ;  and  they  neither  look  nor  taste  half 

*  The  natlye  blaeklverry  of  this  ooanuy  makes  a  very  fine  Jelly,  and  li  medidnat. 
in  bowel  complaliitt  of  ehUdren.    A. 


CALVES'-F£ST  JBLLY.  299 

SO  delicate,  as  vhen  made  with  a  proper  proportion  of  sugrar, 
and  moderate  boiling. 

Mock  Arrack. — (No.  480.) 

Dissolve  two  scruples  of  flowers  of  benjamin  in  a  quart 
of  good  rum,  and  it  will  immediately  impart  to  it  the  inviting 
fragrance  of  "  Vauxhall  nectar." 

Calves'-Feet  J«Z/y»— (No.  481.) 

Take  four  calves'  feet  (not  those  which  are  sold  at  tripe- 
shops,  which  have  been  boiled  till  almost  all  the  gelatine  is 
extracted;  but  buy. them  at  the  butcher's),  slit  them  in  two, 
take  away  the  fat  from  between  the  claws,  wash  them  well 
in  lukewarm  water ;  then  put  them  in  a  large  stew-pan,  and 
cover  them  with  water :  when  the  liquor  boils,  skim  it  well, 
and  let  it  boil  gently  six  or  seven  hours,  that  it  may  be 
reduced  to  about  two  quarts ;  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve, 
and  skim  off  all  the  oily  substance  which  is  on  the  surface 
of  the  liquor. 

If  you  are  not  in  a  hurry,  it  is  better  to  boil  the  calves'  feet 
the  day  before  you  make  the  jelly ;  as  when  the  liquor  is  cold, 
the  oily  part  being  at  the  top,  and  the  other  being  firm,  with 
pieces  of  kitchen  paper  applied  to  it,  you  may  remove  every 
particle  of  the  oily  substance,  without  wasting  any  of  the 
liquor. 

Put  the  liquor  in  a  stew-pan  to  melt,  with  a  pound  of  lump 
sugar,  the  peel  pf  two  lemons,  the  juice  of  six,  six  whites 
and  shells  of  eggs  beat  together,  and  a  bottle  <of  sherry  or 
Madeira;  whisk  the  whole  together  until  it  is  on  the  boil; 
then  put  it  by  the  side  of  the  stove,  and  let  it  simmer  a  quarter 
of  an  hour;  strain  it  through  a  jelly-bag:  what  is  strained 
first  must  be  poured  into  the  bag  again,  imtil  it  is  as  bright 
and  as  clear  as  rock-water ;  then  put  the  jelly  in  moulds,  to 
be  cold  and  firm:  if  the  weather  is  too  warm,  it  requires 
some  ice. 

Obs. — When  it  is  wished  to  be  very  stiff,  half  an  ounce  of 
isinglass  may  be  added  when  the  wine  is  put  in. 

It  may  be  flavoured  by  the  juice  of  various  fruits,  and 
spices,  &c.  and  coloured  with  saffron,  cochineal,  red  beet 
juice,  spinage  juice,  claret,  &c. ;  and  it  is  sometimes  made 
with  cherry  brandy,  or  noyeau  rouge,  or  Curagoa  (No.  474), 
or  essence  of  punch  (No.  479),  instead  of  wine. 

N.B.  Ten  shank  bones  of  mutton,  which  may  be  bought 
for  S^d.,  will  give  as  much  jelly  as  a  calf's  foot,  which  costs 
a  shiUing.    See  pages  225,  226  of  this  work. 


300  MASS  vnaxBf  Ste. 


MADE  Dmns,  Ue* 

BmMUfor  economUced  Made  Dishes,  wriiienf&r  the  Oook^ 
dracle,  by  an  accon^UA/ed  English  Lady. --(No.  483.) 

Tmsc  experiments  have  arisen  from  my  aversion  to  oold 
meat,  and  my  preference  for  what  are  termed  French  dishes ; 
with  which,  oy  a  certain  management,  I  think  I  can  furnish 
my  tahle  at  far  less  expense  .than  is  generally  incnned  in 
getting  up  a  plain  dinner. 

Gravy  or  soup  meats  I  never  buy;  and  yet  am  seldom 
without  a  good  provision  of  what  is  technically  denominated 
stock. 

When,  as  it  frequently  happens,  we  have  ham  dressed;  if 
the  joint  be  above  the  weight  of  seven  poimds,  I  have  it  cut 
in  half,  and  prepared  in  the  foUowing  manner :  first,  ensure 
that  it  has  been  properly  soaked,  scraped,  and  cleaned  to  a 
nicety;  then  put  it  mto  an  earthen  vessel,  as  near  its  own 
size  as  possible,  with  just  as  much  water  as  wiH  cover  it;  to 
which  add  four  onions,  a  clove  of  oraiiic,  half  a  dozen  escha- 
lots, a  bay-leaf,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  half  a  dozen  cloves, 
a  few  peppercorns  and  allspice :  this  should  be  well  closed, 
and  kept  sinunerin^  about  three  hours.  It  is  then  served 
with  raspings  or  with  jrUtzing,  the  rind  having  first  been 
taken  ofi^neatly.  The  liquor  is  strained,  and  kept  till  poul- 
try of  any  sort,  or  meat,  is  boiled ;  when  tiie  liquor  in  which 
they  have  been  dressed  should  be  added  to  it,  and  boiled  down 
fast  till  reduced  to  about  three  pints ;  when  cold,  it  will  be  a 
highly  flavoured,  well-coloured  jelly,*  and  ready  for  sauce 
for  all  kinds  of  ragodts  and  hashes,  ^c.  &c. 

A  fillet  of  veal  .1  divide  into  three  parts ;  the  meat  before 
it  is  skewered,  will  of  itself  indicate  where  the  partition  i&^ 
iiatural,  and  will  pull  asunder  as  you  would  quarter  an 
orange ;  the  largest  piece  should  be  stuffed  with  No.  374  or 
No.  375,  and  rolled  up,  compactly  skewered,  &c.,  and  makes 
a  very  pretty  small  fillet :  the  square  flat  piece  will  either 
cut  into  cutlets  (No.  90,  or  No.  531),  or  slice  for  a  pie  ;  and 
the  thick  piece  must  be  well  larded  and  dressed  as  a  frican- 
deau;  which  I  do  in  the  following  manner :  put  the  larded 
veal  into  a  stew-pan  just  big  enough  to  contain  it,  with  as 
much  water  as  wiU  cover  it ;  when  it  has  simmered  till  deli- 

*  This  may  be  sdU  longer  preierved  bj  tiie  proees4inoie4  io  H9.9S%, 


catelv  white,  and  bo  tender  as  to  be  4itA  with  a  spoon,  it  must 
be  taken  out  of  the  water  and  set  apart ;  and  it  will  be  ready 
to  serve  up  either  with  sorreli  tomata,  mushrooms  (No.  305« 
or  No.  439),  or  some  ol.the  above-mentioned  stock,  the 
firicandeau  bdng  previously  c(4oured  with  glazing ;  if  with 
mu8lnt>om8,  they  should  be  first  parboiled  in  salt  and  vinegar, 
and  water,  which  gives  them  flavour,  and  keeps  them  of  a 
good  colour. 

The  sirloin  of  beef  I  likewise  divide  into  three  parts  $  I 
flrst  have  it  nicely  boned. 

The  under  part.  Or  fillet,  as  the  French  call  it,  will  dress 
(when  cut  into  slices)  excellently,  either  as  {^ain  steaks  (Nd^^ 
94),  curiy  (No.  197),  or  it  may  be  larded  whole,  and  gently 
stewed  in  two  quarts  of  water  (a  bay-leaf,  two  onions,  their 
skins  roasted  brown,  four  cloves,  allspice,  &c.  &c.)  till  tender, 
when  it  should  be  taken  out,  drained  quite  diy,  and  put  away ; 
it  is  then  ready  to  be  used  at  any  time  in  the  following 
manner :  season  and  dredge  it  well,  then  put  it  into  a  stew-' 
psm  in  which  a  piece  of  butter  has  been  previously  fried  to  a 
fine  froth ;  when  the  meat  is  sufficiently  brown,  take  it  outf 
and  throw  into  the  pan  half  a  dozen  middle-sized  onions,  to 
do  a  fine  gold  colour ;  that  accomplished,  (during  which  the 
dredger  should  be  in  constant  use,)  add  half  a  pint  of  stock, 
and  a  tea-spoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar  (No.  396)^  and  let 
the  onions  stew  gently  till  nearly  tender :  the  beef  should 
then  be  returned  to  the  stew-pan,  and  the  whole  suffered  to 
simmer  till  the  meat  is  warm  through :  care  must  be  taken 
that  the  onions  do  not  break,  and  they  should  be  served 
round  the  beef  with  as  much  sauce  as  will  look  graceful  in 
the  dish.  The  fillet  is  likewise  very  good  without  the  fried 
onions ;  in  that  case  you  should  chop  and  mix  up  together 
an  esehalot,  some  parsley,  a  few  capers,  and  the  yelk  of 
a  hard  egg,  and  strew  them  lightly  over  the  surface  of  the 
beef. 

The  fat  end  of  the  sirloin  and  bones  should  be  put  to 
simmer  in  the  liquor  in  which  the  fillet  was  first  stewed,  and 
done  till  the  beef  looks  loose ;  it  should  then  be  put  awav 
into  a  deep  vessel,  and  the  soup  strained  over  it,  whien 
cooling  with  the  fat  upon  the  top  (thereby  excluding  the  air), 
will  keep  as  long  as  may  be  required :  when  the  soup  is  to 
be  used,  the  fat  must  be  cleared  from  it ;  a  carrot,  parsnip, 
a  head  of  celery,  a  leek,  and  three  turnips,  cleaned  and 
scalded,  should  be  added  to  it,  and  the  wnole  suffered  to 
simmer  gently  till  the  vegetables  are  quite  done,  when  thev 
must  be  strained  from  the  liquor,  and  the  soup  served  up  with 
large  square  thick  pieces  of  toasted  breads 

Co 


.902  .  JCADX  UKHB8»  &C. 

Thime  who  like  a  plain  bouilli  warm  the  beef  in  the  soup, 
and  fenre  it  up  with  the  tumips  and  carrots  which  had  been 
.strained  before  from  the  soup.  A  white  cabbage  quartered 
is  no  bad  addition  to  the  ^mish  of  the  bouilli,  or  to  the 
flavour  of  the  soup.  If  it  is  a  dressed  bouiUi,  sliced  carrots 
and  button  onions  should  be  stewed  in  thickened  stock,  and 
poured  over  the  meat. 

A  neck  of  mutton  boned,  sprinkled  with  dried  sage,  pow- 
dered fine,  or  (No.  378)  seasoned,  rolled,  and  roasted,  is  very 
good.  The  bones  and  scrag  make  excellent  gravy  stewed 
aown»  and  if  done  very  gently,  the  meat  is  not  had  eating. 
The  same  herbs  should  be  put  to  it  as  to  other  stocks,  with 
the  addition  of  a  carrot ;  this  will  make  very  good  mutUm 
broth.  In  short,  wherever  there  are  bones  or  trimmings  to 
be  got  out  of  any  meat  that  is  dressed  in  my  kitchen,  they 
are  made  to  contnbute  towards  soup  or  gravy,  or  No.  252. 

Instead  of  roasting  a  hare,  (which  at  best  is  but  dry  food), 
stew  it,  if  young,  plain ;  if  an  old  one,  lard  it.  The  shoulders 
and  legs  should  he  taiken  off,  and  the  back  cut  into  three 
pieces ;  these,  with  a  bay-leaf,  half  a  dozen  eschalots,  one 
onion  pierced  with  four  cloves,  should  be  laid  with  as  much 
good  vinegar  as  will  cover  them,  for  twenty-four  hours,  in  a 
deep  dish.  In  the  mean  time,  the  head,  neck,  ribs,  liver, 
heart,  &c.  &c.  should  be  browned  in  frothed  butter  well 
seasoned ;  add  half  a  pound  of  lean  bacon,  cut  into  small 
pieces,  a  large  bunch  of  herbs,  a  carrot,  and  a  few  allspice ; 
simmer  these  in  a  quart  of  water  till  it  be  reduced  to  about 
lialf  the  quantity,  when  it  should  be  strained,  and  those 
parts  of  the  hare  which  have  been  infused  in  the  vinegar, 
should  (with  the  whole  contents  of  the  dish)  be  added  to  it, 
and  stewed  till  quite  done.  Those  who  like  onions  may 
brown  half  a  dozen,  stew  them  in  a  pajt  of  the  gravy,  and 
dish  them  round  the  hare. 

When  it  comes  from  the  table,  supposing  some  to  be  left, 
the  meat  should  be  taken  from  the  bones,  and  with  a  few 
forcemeat  balls,  the  remains  of  the  gravy,  about  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  red  wine,  and  a  proportionable  quantity  of  water, 
it.will  make  a  very  pretty  soup ;  to  those  who  have  no  objec- 
tion to  catchup  (No.  439,)  a  spoonful  in  the  original  gravy  is 
an  improvement,  as  indeed  it  is  in  every  made  dish,  where 
the  mushroom  itself  is  not  at  command. 

Every  ragoOt,  in  my  opinion,  should  be  dressed  the  day 
before  it  is  wanted,  that  any  fat  which  has  escaped  the 
skimming  spoon,  may  with  ease  be  taken  off  when  cold. 

Calf's  head. — Take  the  half  of  one,  with  the  skin  on;, 
put  it  into  a  large  stew-pan,  with  as  much  water  as  will 


MADS  msasBfSBC.  303 

cover  it,  a  knuckle  of  hain,  and  the  usual  accompaniments  of 
onions,  herbs,  &c.  &c.,  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  flcish  may 
be  separated  from  the  bone  with  a  spoon ;  do  so,  and  while 
still  hot,  cut  it  into  as  large  a  sized  square  as  the  piece  will 
admit  of;  the  trimmings  and  half  the  liquor  put  by  in  a 
tureen ;  to  .the  remaining  half  add  a  gill  of  white  wine,  and 
reduce  the  whole  of  that  by  quick  boiling  till  it  is  again  haif 
consumed,  when  it  should  oe  poured  over  the  large  square 
piece  in  an  earthen  vessel,  surrounded  with  mushnxnns,  white 
button  onions,  small  pieces  of  pickled  pork,  half  an  inch  in 
breadth,  and  one  and  a  half  in  length,  and  the  tongue  in 
slices,  and  simmered  till  the  whole  is  fit  to  serve  up;  some 
browned  forcemeat  balls  are  a  pretty  addition.  After 
this  comes  from  the  table,  the  remams  should  be  cut 
into  small  pieces,  and  mixed  up  with  the  trimmings  and 
liquor,  which  (with  a  little  more  wine),  properly  thick- 
ened, will  make  a  very  good  mock  turtle  soup  for  a  future 
occasion. 

Toha^MuU(m,^c.^(So.iBi.). 

Cut  the  meat  mto  slices,  about  the  thickness  of  two  shil- 
lings, trim  off  all  the  sinews,  skin,  gristle,  &c.;  put  in 
nothing  but  what  is  to  be  eaten,  lay  them  on  a  plate,  ready ; 
prepare  your  sauce  to  warm  it  in,  as  receipt  (No.  360,  or  No. 
451,  or  No.  486),  put  in  the  meat,  and  let  it  simmer  gently 
till  it  is  thoroughly  warm :  do  not  let  it  boil,  as  that  will 
make  the  meat  tough  and  hard,*  and  it  will  be,  as  Joan 
Cromwellf  has  it,  a  harsh. 

Obs. — Select  for  your  hash  those  parts  of  the  joint  that 
are  least  done; 

MEM.-^Hashing  is  a  mode  of  cookery  by  no  means  suited 
to  delicate  stomachs :  unless  the  meat,  &c.  be  considerably 
under-done  the  first  time,  a  -second  dressing  must  spoil  it,  for 
what  is  done  enough  the  first  time,  must  te  done  too  much 
the  second. 

*  Hashes  and  meats  dressed  a  second  time,  should  only  simmer  gently  till  just 
warm  through ;  it  is  supposed  they  have  been. done  very  nearly,  if  not  quite  enough, 
already ;  select  those  narts  of  the  joint  that  have  been  least  done. 

In  making  a  hash  mim  a  leg  of  mutton,  do  not  destroy  the  marrow-bone  to  help 
the  gravy  of  your  hash,  to  which  it  will  make  no  perceptible  addition ;  but  saw  it 
in  two,  twist  writing-paper  round  the  ends,  and  send  it  up  on  a  plate  as  a  side  dish, 
garnished  with  sprigs  of  parsley :  if  it  is  a  roast  leg,  preserve  the  end  bone,  and  send 
it  up  between  the  marrow-bones.    This  is  a  very  pret^  lunGbodm,  or  supper  dish. 

t  See  '*  The  Comrt  and  Kitehen  of  Euzabbtb,  commonly  called  Joan  OromweU^** 
16(no.  London,  1064,  page  106. 


304  mktm  smsB,  Set. 


7b  warm  HaAHf*  Modi  LHihet,  SUtWif  RugotUif  &iH>^  4^—^ 

(No.  485.) 

Put  what  you  have  left  into  a  deep  hashish  or  tureen  i 
when  yon  want  it^  set  this  in  a  stew*pan  of  boiling  water'; 
let  it  stand  till  the  contents  are  quite  warm. 

To  hath  Bee^  4^.— (No.  486. ) 

Put  n  pint  and  a  half  of  broth,  or  water,  with  an  ounce  of 
Na  956,  or  a  large  table-spoonftil  of  mushroom  catchup,  into 
a  stew-pan  with  the  gravy  you  have  saved  that  was  left  from 
the  beef,  and  put  in  a  quarter  ounce  of  onion  sliced  very  fine, 
and  boil  it  about  ten  minutes ;  put  a  large  table-spoonful  of 
fiour  into  a  basin,  just  wet  it  with  a  little  water,  mix  it  well 
together,  and  then  stir  it  into  the  broth,  and  give  it  a  boil  for 
five  or  ten  minutes ;  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  it  is  ready  to 
iBceive  the  beef,  &c ;  let  it  stand  by  the  side  of  the  fire  tfll 
the  meat  is  warm. 

N.B.  A  tea-spoonful  of  parsley  chopped  as  fine  as  possible 
and  put  in  five  minutes  before  it  is  served  up,  is  a  great 
addition;  others  like  half  a  wine-glass  of  port  wine,  an4  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  currant  jelly. 

See  also  No.  360,  which  will  show  you  every  variety  of 
manner  of  making  and  flavouring  the  most  highly  finished 
hash  sauce,  and  Nos.  484,  485,  and  506. 

Cold  Meat  broiUd,  with  Poached  Eggs.--(Ji^o.  487.) 

The  inside  of  a  sirloin  of  beef  is  best  for  this  dish,  or  a 
leg  of  mutton.  Cut  the  slices  of  even  and  equal  thickness, 
and  broU  and  brown  them  carefully  and  slightly  over  a  clear 
sm^rt  fire,  or  in  a  Dutch  oven ;  give  those  slices  most  fire 
that  are  least  done ;  lay  them  in  a  dic^  before  the  fire  to  keep 
hot,  while  you  poach  the  eggs,  as  directed  in  No.  546,  and 
mashed  potatoes  (No.  106). 

*  The  "ft«»-«artf,"  or  wateMmth  (see  note  to  No.  539).  is  the  best  utenBil  lo 
warm  up  made  disbeSf  and  thinp  that  have  been  already  sufficiently  dressed,  as  it 
neHher  coMamea  tbe  aance,  nor  hardens  the  meat,  fif  ygu  have  not  a  water-batb, 
a  DutcJi  oven  wiH  Bomedmes  sapply  the  plaee  of  it. 

**  Bain-marU  is  a  flat  vessel  containing  boiling  water ;  you  put  all  your  stew-psns 
into  the  water,  and  keep  that  water  always  very  hot,  but  It  most  not  boil:  the 
elTeet  of  this  b»n-marie  Is  to  keep  every  thing  warm  without  altering  either  the 
4|aantity  or  the  quality,  particularly  the  <iu^it/.  When  I  had  the  honour  of  serving 
a  noHeman,  who  kept  a  very  ezfiensive  hunting  estiAllshment,  and  the  hour  of 
dinner  was  conseQueotlr  uncertain,!  was  in  the  habit  of  using  ftain-maH^,  as  a 
cettalnmeamof  preserving  the  flavour  of  all  my  dishes.  If  you  keep  your  sauoe, 
or  broth,  or  soup,  by  the  fireside,  the  soup  reduces,  and  becomes  too  strong,  And  tha. 
sauce  tokens  as  well  as  reduces.  This  is  the  best  way  of  warmhig  turtle,  or  mock 
turtle  soup,  as  the  thick  part  is  always  at  tbe  bottom,  and  this  meOiod  preventl  it 
fr09  bamiog,  and  keq^  it  always  good.**— Unc^s  Cookery^  pag^  18«    • 


HA^E  DXSKSfii  &C.  905 

Oo<.-^TM8  mukes  a  «ftvour)r  Itineheon  brflwjypery  but  is 
more  'relishmg  than  nomishing,  unless  the  meat  was  imdap- 
do&e  the  first  time  it  was  dress^ 

No.  307  for  Bailee^  to  which  some  add  a  few  drops  of 
esehalot  wine  or  vinegar.  See  No.  402,  or  No.  439,  or  No. 
3599  warmed;  or  Grill  Sauce  (No.  365.) 

Mbs.  Philups's  Iri^  .Stew.— (No.  488.) 

Take  Ave  thick  mutton  chops,  or  two  pounds  off  the  neck 
or  loin  *,  two  pounds  of  potatoes ;  peel  them,  and  cut  them 
in  halves ;  six  onions,  or  half  a  pound  of  onions ;  peel  and 
sHce  them  also :  first  put  a  layer  of  potatoes  at  the  bottom 
of  your  stew-pan,  then  a  couple  of  chops  and  some  of  the 
onions ;  then  again  potatoes,  and  so  on,  till  the  pan  is  quite 
full ;  a  small  spoonful  of  white  pepper,  and  about  one  and  a 
half  of  salt,  and  three  gills  of  broth  or  gravy,  and  two  tea* 
tipoonf^s  of  mushroom  catchup ;  cover  all  very  close  in,  so 
as  to  prevent  the  steam  from  getting  out,  and  let  them  stew 
for  an  hour  and  a  half  on  a  very  slow  fire.  A  small  slice  of 
ham  is  a  great  additicm  to  this  dish.  The  cook  will  be  th^ 
best  judge  when  it  is  done,  as  a  great  deal  depends  on  the  fire 
you  have. 

N.B.  Great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  let  it  bum,  and  that 
It  does  not  do  too  fast. 

7b  make  an  Irish  Stew,  or  HvmUr's  Pie* 

• 

Take  part  of  a  neck  of  mutton,  cut  it  into  chops,  season 
it  well,  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  let  it  brase  for  half  an  hour, 
take  two  dozen  of  potatoes,  boil  them,  mash  them,  and 
tseason  them,  butter  your  mould,  and  line  it  with  the 
potatoes,  put  in  the  mutton,  baltie  it  for  half  an  hour,  th€»i 
it  will  be  done,  cut  a  hole  in  the  top,  and  add  some  good 
gravy  to  it. 

N.B.  The  above  is  the  contribution  of  Mr.  Morrison,  Of 
the  Leinster  hotel,  Dublin. 

A  good  Scotch  Haffgis.-^(So.  488*.) 

Make  the  haggis-bag  perfectly  deah ;  parboil  the  draught ; 
boil  the  liver  very  well,  so  as  it  will  grate ;  dry  the  meal 
before  the  fire ;  mince  the  draught  and  a  pretty  large  piece 
of  beef  very  small;  grate  about  half  of  the  liver;  mince 
plenty  of  the  suet  and  some  onions  small;  mix  all  these 
materials  very  well  together,  with  a  handful  or  two  of  the 
dried  meal;  spread  them  on  the  table,  and  season  them 

Cc3 


306  uApm  JOBBVt  d&c. 

properiy  with  salt  and  mixed  spices ;  take  any  of  the  scraps 
of  beei  that  are  left  from  mincing,  and  some  of  the*  water 
that  boiled  the  draught,  and  make  abont  a  choi^in  (».  e. 
a  quart)  of  good  stock  of  it ;  then  put  all  the  haggis  meat 
into  the  bag^,  and  that  broth  in  it;  then  sew  up  the  bag; 
but  be  sure  to  put  out  all  the  wind  before  you  sew  it  quite 
close.  If  you  tnink  the  bag  is  thin,  you  may  put  it  m  a 
doth.  If  it  is  a  large  haggis,  it  will  take  at  least  two  hours 
boiling. 

N.B.  The  above  we  copied  verbatim  from  Mrs.  Macivbk, 
a  celebrated  Caledonian  professor  of  the  culinary  art,  who 
taught,  and  published  a  book  of  cookery,  at  Edinburgh, 
A.  D.  1787. 

Minced  poUops. 

§  "  This  is  a  favourite  Scotch  dish ;  few  families  are  with- 
out it:  it  keeps  well,  and  is  always  ready  to  make  an 
extra  dish. 

**  Take  beef,  and  chop  and  mince  it  very  small ;  to  which 
add  some  salt  and  pepper.  Put  this,  in  its  raw  state,  into 
small  jars,  and  pour  on  the  top  some  clarified  butter.  When 
intended  for  use,  put  the  clarified  butter  into  a  fr3ring-pan, 
and  slice  some  onions  into  the  pan,  and  fry  them.  Aod  a 
little  water  to  it,  and  then  put  in  the  minced  meat  Stew  it 
well,  and  in  a  few  minutes  it  will  be  fit  to  serve  up." — 
The  Hon.  Johh  Oochiulnk's  Seamarks  Guide,  8vo.  1797, 
page«4S. 

Haricot^  MuUon. — (No.  489.) 

Cut  the  best  end  of  a  neck  or  loin  of  mutton,  that  has 
been  kept  till  tender,  into  chops  of  equal  thickness,  one  rib 
to  each  ('*  Us  bons  hommes  de  bouche  de  Part>'*  cut  two  chops 
to  one  bone,  but  it  is  more  convenient  to  help  when  there  is 
only  one ;  two  at  a  time  is  too  large  a  dose  for  John  Bull), 
trim  off  some  of  the  fat,  and  the  lower  end  of  the  chine 
bone,  and  scrape  it  clean,  and  lay  them  in  a  stew-pan,  with 
an  ounce  of  butter ;  set  it  over  a  smart  fire ;  if  your  fire  is 
not  sJiarp,  the  chops  will  be  done  before  they  are  coloured  : 
the  intention  of  frying  them  is  merely  to  give  them  a  very 
light  browning. 

While  the  chops  are  browning,  peel  and  boil  a  couple 
of  dozen  of  young  button  onions  in  about  three  pints  of 
water  for  about  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  set  them  by,  and 

•  Probably  a  eontractiOB  of  *^Mut  r*go^:* 


i 


XASfi  BfiSHESy  &C«  307 

pour  off  the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in  into  the  stew-pan 
with  the  chops:  if  that  is  not  sufficient  to  cover  thcaxit  add 
as  much  boiling  water  as  will ;  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises, 
and  be  careful  they  are  not  stewed  too  fast  or  too  much ; 
so  take  out  one  of  them  with  a  fish-slice,  and  try  it:  when 
they  are  tender,  which  wiU  be  in  about  an  hour  and  a  half, 
then  pass  the  gravy  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  set  it  in 
the  open  air  that  it  may  get  cold,  you  may  then  easily  and 
completely  skim  off  the  fat ;  in  the  mean  time  set  the  meat 
and  vegetables  by  the  fire  to  keep  hot,  and  pour  some  boiling 
water  over  the  button  onions  to  warm  them.  Have  about 
six  ounces  of  carrots,  and  eight  ounces  of  turnips,  peeled 
and  cut  into  slices,  or  shaped  into  balls  about  as  big  as  a 
liutmeg;  boil  the  carrots  about  half  an  hour,  the  turnips 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  put  them  on  a  sieve  to  dram, 
and  then  put  them  round  the  dish,  the  last  thing. 
•  Thicken  the  gravy  by  putting,  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a 
stew-pan ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  in  as  much  flour  as  will 
stiffen  it ;  pour  the  gravy  to  it  by  degrees,  stir  together  till  it 
boils ;  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve  or  tamis  into  a  stew-pan, 
put  in  the  carrots  and  turnips  to  get  warm,  and  let  it  simmer 
gently  while  you  dish  up  the  meat ;  lay  the  chops  round  a 
dish,  put  the  vegetables  in  the  middle,  and  pour  the  thickened 
gravy  over.  Some  put  in  capers,  &c.  minced  gherkins,  &c* 
06ir.^*~Rump-steaks,  veal-cutlets,  and  beef-tails,  make  ex* 
cellent  dishes  dressed  in  the  like  manner. 

MuUon-C^iops  ddiaUdy  siewed,  and  good  MuUoA  Broth, 

(No.  490.) 

Put  the  chops  into  a  stew-pan  with  cold  water  enough  to 
cover  them,  and  an  onjon :  when  it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  skim 
it,  cover  the  pan  close,  and  set  it  over  a  very  slow  fire  till  the 
chops  are  tender :  if  they  have  been  kept  a  proper  time,  they 
will  take  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour's  very  gentle  sim- 
mering. Send  up  turnips  with  them  (No.  130) ;  they  may 
be  boued  with  the  chops ;  skim  well,  and  then  send  all  up  in 
a  deep  dish,  with  the  broth  they  were  stewed  in. 

N.  B.  The  broth  will  make  an  economist  one,  and  the 
meat  another,  wholesome  and  comfortable  meal. 

Shoulder  of  Lamb  grilled* — (No.  491.) 

Boil  it;  score  it  in  checkers  about  an  inch  square,  nib  it 
over  with  the  yelk  of  an  egg<,  pepper  and  salt  it,  strew  it  with 
bread-crumbs  and  dried  parsley,  or  sweet  herbs,  or  No.  457, 
or  No.  469,  and  CarbonoMo^  u  e.  grill,  t.  e.  broil  it  over  a  deajr 


308  iU3>s  0i88S£^  &e.  •' 

tm»  or  pat  it  in  a  Dutch  oven  till  it  is  a  nice  ligbt  brown ; 
8Mld  op  iome  gravy  with  it,  or  make  a  sauce  for  it  of  flour 
and  watet  weQ  mixed  together  with  an  ounce  of  fresh  tnitter, 
a  taMe-spocmful  of  mushroom  or  walnut  catchup,  and  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon.    See  also  grill  sauce  (No.  355). 

N.B.  Breasts  of  lamh  are  often  done  in  the  same  way, 
and  with  mushroom  or  mutton  sauce  (No.  307). 

Lam^'t  Fry.— (No.  492.) 

FVy  it  plain,  or  dip  it  in  an  egg  well  beaten  on  a  plate,  and 
strew  some  fine  stale  bread-crumbs  over  it ;  garnish  with 
crisp  parsley  (No.  389).    For  sauce.  No.  355,  or  No.  356. 

Sidn  of  Beef*  ste»ed.-^No.  493.) 

Desire  the  butcher  to  saw  the  bone  into  three  or  four 
pieces,  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  and  just  cover  it  with  cold 
water ;  when  it  simmers,  skim  it  clean ;  then  put  in  a  bundle 
of  sweet  herbs,  a  large  onion,  a  head  of  celeiy,  a  dozen  ber- 
ries of  black  pepper,  and  the  same  of  allspice:  stew  very 
gently  over  a  slow  fire  till  the  meat  is  tender;  this  will  take 
from  about  three  hours  and  a  half,  to  four  and  a  halif. 

Take  three  carrots,  peel  and  cut  them  into  small  squares ; 
peel  and  cut  ready  in  small  squares  a  c6u{de  of  tumipis,  with 
a  couple  of  dozen  of  small  young  round  silver  button  onions  i 
boil  mem,  till  tender;  the  turnips  and  onions  will  be  enough 
in  about  fifteen  minutes ;  the  carrots  will  require  about  twice 
as  long :  drain  them  dry. 

When  the  beef  is  qmte  tender,  take  it  out  carefully  with  a 
shce,  and  put  it  on  a  dish  while  you  thicken  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  the  grdivy :  to  do  this,  mix  three  table-spoonfuls  of  flour 
with  a  tea-cupful  of  the  beef  liquor ;  to  make  soup  of  the  res^ 
of  it,  see  No.  238 ;  stir  this  thoroughly  together  till  it  boils, 
skim  off  the  fat,  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  put  your  vege- 
tables in  to  warm;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  wine-glasa 
of  mushroom  catchup  (No.  439),  or  port  wine,  or  both,  and 
pour  it  over  the  beef. 

Send  up  Wow- wow  sauce  (No.  398)  in  a  boat. 

N.B.  Or,  instead  of  sending  up  the  beef  whole,  cut  tiie 
meat  into  handsome  pieces  fit  to  help  at  table,  and  lay  it  in 
the  middle  of  the  dish,  with  the  vegetables  and  sauce  (which, 
if  you  flavour  with  No.  455,  you  may  call  **  beef  cuny'O 
• 

•  Tte  woverb  uyv,  «<  0/ «« cib« /m0|«  •/ Oe  a<r,  conmend  ne  to  tliB  tta 
for  ifaere'inMnoir  for  Uie  matter^  meat  6r  tte  miitiaB,  l^stlM  fiv  tim  96rflutf% 
•ad  iKurei  Ibr  tbe  dogk*' 


J 


round  it.  A  leg  of  mutton  is  excellent  dresMid  in  the  fl«m9 
way;  equal  to  *We  gigot  de  stpt  heures^^  ao  famom  ill  tlie 
Freneh  kitchen. 

CH>s. — ^This  stew  has  every  claim  to  the  attention  of  the* 
rational  epicure,  being  one  of  those  in  which  "  frugality,*^ 
^'  nourishment,'^  and  ^^  palatableness,''  are  most  happily  com- 
bined  j  and  you  get  half  a  gallon  of  excellent  broth  inlo  the 
bargain. 

We  advise  the  mistress  of  the  table  to  call  it  *^rago{it 
beef :''  this  will  ensmre  its  being  eaten  with  unanimous 
applause ;  the  homely  appellation  of  "  shin  of  beef  stewed,'* 
is  enough  to  give  your  genteel  eater  the  locked  jaw. 


^  BMneonber,  wheo  the  Judgmeat  *s  waaki  the  prci}u^Uce  m  stiDiifr'* 

Our  modem  epicures  resemble  the  ancient,*  who  thought 
the  dearest  dish  must  be  the  most  delicious : 


'"■  And  think  all  wiadoiQ  lies 


In  being  ImpertineDtiy  nice.*' 

Thus,  they  reckon  turtle  and  punch  to  be  "  sheventy-foiye 
per  shent"  more  inviting  than  mock  turtle  and  good  malt 
liquor :  however  bad  the  former  may  be,  and  however  good 
the  latter,  we  wish  these  folks  could  be  made  to  understandi 
that  the  soup  for  each,  and  all  the  accompaniments,  are  pre- 
cisely the  same :  there  is  this  only  difference,  the  former  is 
commonly  made  with  a  '*  starved  turtle"  (see  Notes  at  the 
foQt  of  page  366),  the  latter  with  a  *'  fatted  calf."  See  Nos« 
247,  343,  and  343*. 

The  scarcity  of  tolerably  good  cooks  ceases  to  be  sur- 
prising, when  we  reflect  how  much  more  astonishing  is  the 
ignorance  of  most  of  those  who  assume  the  character  of 
scientific  gourmands,t  so  extremely  ignorant  of  "  the  affairs 
of  the  mouth,"  they  seem  hardly  to  "  know  a  sheep's  head 
from  a  carrot;"  and  their  real  pretensions  to  be  profoimd 
palaticians,  are  as  moderate  as  the  wine-merchant's  cus- 

*  The  leoioteet  parts  of  the  worM  were  Tisited,  and  earth,  air,  and  ocean  ran- 
sacked, to  famish  the  complicated  delicaciei  of  a  Roaian  suppen 

"  Stfidas  tells  us,  that  Pityllusy  who  had  a  kot  tongue  and  a  cold  stomaeh,  in  Mto 
to  gratify  the  latter  without  oflfending  the  former,  made  a  sheath  for  his  toiwue,  so 
that  lie  could  swallow  his  pottage  scalding  hot ;  yea,  I  myself  have  known  a  Shrop- 
shire gentleman  of  the  like  quality ! !"— See  Dr.  MorrAT  on  Fatdy  4i(o.  1S55. 

"  In  the  refined  extravagance  of  the  tables  of  the  great,  where  the  coimary  arts 
are  pushed  to  excess,  luxury  beeomes  folse  to  itself,  and  things  are  valued,  not  as 
they  are  nutritious,  or  agreeable  to  the  appetite,  but  in  proportion  as  they  are  rare) 
put  Qf  season,  or  costly." — Cadooan  oh  Oout^  8vo.  1771,  p.  48. 

f  "Cookery  is  an  art,  appreciated  by  only  a  veryf^w  indhriduals,  and  which 
requires,  in  addition  to  a  most  studious  and  diligent  apiriication,'  no  small  share  of 
intellect,  and  the  stdcttitt  sobriety  and  punctuality/'-r-Preface  to  llps*s  Cookery ^  p.  Q; 


310  MADB   DiBlIBBy  &C.  • 

iat^fBif  whoBe  safifacitr  in  the  selection  of  UqoorB  was  <ndf 
BO  exquifltey  that  he  knew  that  Port  wine  was  Mack*  and 
that  if  he  drank  enough  of  it,  it  would  make  him  drunk. 

BriJut  of  Betf  ttetve^.^No.  494.) 

This  is  prepared  in  exactly  the  same  way  as  *'  soup  and 
bonilli.^    See  Nos.  5, 238,  or  493. 

Haricoi  of  Bee^— (No.  495.) . 

A  stewed  brisket  cut  in  slices,  and  sent  up  with  the  same 
sauce  of  roots,  &c.,  as  we  have  directed  for  naricot  of  mut^ 
ton  (No.  489),  is  a  most  excellent  dish,  of  very  moderate 
expense. 

Savoury  Salt  Beef  baked.^No.  496.) 

The  tonffue  side  of  a  round  of  beef  is  the  best  bit  for  this 
purpose :  if  it  weighs  fifteen  pounds,  let  it  hang  two  or  three 
days;  then  take  three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  one  ounce  of 
coarse  suear,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  black  pepper,  and  the 
same  of  auspice  (some  add  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  ginger, 
or  No.  457\  and  some  minced  sweet  and  savoury  herbs  (No^ 
459),  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  common  salt;  incor- 
porate these  ingredients  by  pounding  them  together  in  a 
mortar;  then  take  the  bone  out,  and  rub  the  meat  well  with 
the  above  mixture,  turning  it  and  rubbing  it  every  day  for  a 
fortnight. 

When  you  dress  it,  put  it  into  a  pan  with  a  quart  of  water; 
cover  the  meat  with  about  three  pounds  of  mutton  suet* 
shredded  rather  thick,  and  an  onion  or  two  minced  small ; 
cover  the  whole  with  a  flour  crust  to  the  top  or  brim  of  the 
pan,  and  let  it  be  baked  in  a  moderate-heated  oven  for  about 
six  hours :  (or,  just  cover  it  with  water,  and  let  it  stew  very 
gently  for  about  five  hours,  and  when  you  send  it  to  table, 
cover  the  top  of  it  with  finely  chopped  parsley.)  If  the  beef 
weighs  more,  put  a  proportional  addition  of  aU  the  ingre- 
dients. 

The  gravy  you  will  find  a  strong  consomm^y  excellent  for 
sauce  or  soup ;  or  making  soy,  or  browning,  see  No.  329^  Sid 
being  impregnated  with  salt,  will  keep  several  days. 

This  joint  should  not  be  cut  till  it  is  cold :  and  then,  with  a 

*  Tbis  tuet  ii  not  to  be  waat^id :  wh«ii  it  comes  (torn  the  oven,  take  out  the  beef, 
ttod  Mroia  the  content!  of  the  pan  through  a  sieve ;  let  it  stand  till  it  is  cold ;  then 
clariiy  the  fftt  ■•  directed  in  No.  83,  and  It  wiil  do  for  frying,  &c. 


XADS  OISHESy  &C.  311 

$haxp  Imife,  to  prevent  waste,  and  keep  it  even  and  comely 
to  the  i^ye. 

Obs* — This  is  a  most  excellent  way  of  preparing  and  dress^ 
ing  beef  (No.  503),  and  a  savoury  dish  for  sandwiches,  &e« 
In  moderate  weather  it  will  keep  good  for  a  fortnight  after  it 
is  dressed:  it  is  one  of  the  most  economical  and  elegant  arti- 
cles of  ready-dressed  keeping  provisions;  deserving  the  par- 
ticular attention  of  those  faimlies  who  frequently  have  acci- 
dental customers  dropping  in  at  luncheon  or  supper.  i 

Curries. — (No.  497;  see  also  No,  249.) 

Out  fowls  or  rabbits  into  joints,  and  wash  them  clean :  put 
two  oimces  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan;  when  it  is  melted,  put 
in  the  meat,  and  two  middling-sized  onions  sliced,  let  them 
be  over  a  smart  fire  till  the;^  are  of  a  light  brown,  then  put  in 
half  a  pint  of  broth;  let  it  simmer  twenty  minutes. 

Put  in  a  basin  one  or  two  table-spoonfuls  of  curry  powder 
(No.  455),  a.  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  euid  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt ; 
mix  it  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water,  put  it  into  the  stew- 
pan,  and  shake  it  well  about  till  it  boils :  let  it  simmer  twenty 
minutes  longer ;  then  take  out  the  meat,  and  rub  the  sauce 
through  a  tamis  or  sieve :  add  to  it  two  table  spoonfuls  of 
cream  or  milk ;  give  it  a  boil  up ;  then  pour  it  into  a  dish,  lay 
the  meat  over  it :  send  up  the  rice  in  a  separate  dish. 

06«. — Curry  is  made  also  with  sweetbreads,  breast  of  veal, 
veal  cutlets,  lamb,  mutton  or  pork  chops,  lobster,  tuibot, 
soles,  eels,  oysters,  &c. :  prepared  as  above,  or  enveloped  in 
No.  348. 

Obs* — This  is  a  very  savoury  and  economical  dish,  and  a 
valiiable  variety  at  a  moderate  table.  See  Wow-wow  sauce 
(No.  328). 

Siewed  Rmnp'S(eaks.--(^o.  500.) 

The  steaks  must  be  a  little  thicker  than  for  broiling :  let 
them  be  all  the  same  thickness,  or  some  will  be  done  too 
little,  and  others  too  much. 

Put  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  with  two  onions ; 
when  tiie  butter  is  melted,  lay  in  the  rump-steaks,  let  tliem 
«tand  over  a  slow  fire  for  five  minutes,  then  turn  them  and 
let  the  other  side  of  them  fry  fpr  five  minutes  longer.  Have 
ready  boiled  a  pint  of  button  onions ;  they  will  take  from  half 
an  hour  to  an  hour;  put  the  hquor  they  were  boiled  in  to  the 
steaks ;  if  there  is  not  enough  of  it  to  cover  them,  add  broth 
or  boiMng  water,  to  make  up  enough  for  that  purpose,  with  a 
dozen  corns  of  black  pepper,  and  a  little  salt,  and  let  ihem 


lit  H^ktm  DiiKw,  ^^ 

9immi'fnfB99^fof  ^bom  an  brnvaod  a  balft  «Qd  then 
strain  off  at  much  of  the  Uquor  (about  a  pint  and  a  halO  ^ 
yott  think  will  make  the  aauee. 

Pot  two  ouBees  of  hutter  into  a  stew-pan;  whm  it  is 
ineltwL  stir  in  as  nmch  floar  as  will  make  it  into  a  stiff  paste; 
some  a4ld  thereto  a  ti^le-spoonful  of  claret,  or  Port  winsy  the 
same  of  nraahroom  catchi4>  (No.  439)»  half  a  teanspoonM  of 
salt,  and  a  quarter  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  ground  black  pei^r : 
add  the  U^uor  hy  degrees ;  let  it  boil  up  for  fifteen  minutes ; 
skim  it,  and  strain  it;  serve  up  the  steaks  with  the  onions 
round  the  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  over* 

Veal-cutlets  or  mutton-chops  may  be  done  the  same  way, 
or  as  Teal-olives  (No.  518). 

This  is  generally  a  second-course  dish,  and  is  usually 
mads  toe  rich,  and  only  fit  to  re-excite  an  appetite  already 
i)atiated.  Our  endeavour  is  to  combine  agreeaDie  savouriness 
with  substantial  nourishment;  those  who  wish  to  enrich  our 
receipt,  may  easily  add  mushrooms,  wine,  anchovy,  Cay- 
enne, hay-leaves,  &c. 

Obs.  Kump-steaks  are  in  best  condition  from  Michaelmflw 
to  lady-day.  To  ensure  their  being  tender,  give  the  butcher 
three  or  four  days*  notice  of  your  wish  for  them. 

BraUed  Rump'SUak  with  Onion  Chravy. — (No.  501.) 

See  also  No.  399. 

Peel  and  slice  two  large  onions,  put  them  into  a  quaff 
«tew*pan,  with  two  table-spocmfuls  of  water ;  cover  the  stew* 
pan  close,  and  det  it  on  a  slow  fire  till  the  water  has  boded 
away,  and  the  onions  have  got  a  little  browned ;  then  addhadf 
a  {MBt  of  good  bro^*  and  boil  the  onions  till  they  are  ten* 
der;  strain  the  broth  from  them,  and  chop  them  veiy  fine, 
and  season  it  with  mushroom  catchup,  pepper,  and  salt :  put 
the  onion  into  it,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  five  minutes ;  pour 
it  into  the  dish,  and  lay  over  it  a  broiled  ramp-steak.  If  in- 
stead of  broth  you  use  good  beef  gravy,  it  will  be  super- 
lative. 

%*  Stewed  cucumber  (No.  135)  is  another  agreeable  ac- 
companiment  to  rump-steaks. 

« 
Mmode  Beef,  or  FeaU-^Jlio.  503.) 

In  the  l$o  voliunes  on  Cookery,  we  patiently  pioneered 

«  If  fou  hare  no  broth,  put  to  balf  a  pint  of  water,  thicken  it  as  in  tfie  above 
neapit  and  Jufi  before  you  0y9  it  the  last  boil  up,  ad4  to  it  a  large  ipoonfUl  of 
amilirooai  cMehup,  and,  if  jrou  likej  the  same  quantity  of  port  wine. 


tlirough,  before  we  encountered  tke  tremendous  labour  and 
expense  of  proving  the  receipts  of  our  predecessors,  and  set 
about  recording  these  results  of  our  own  experiments,  we 
could  not  find  one  receipt  that  approximated  to  any  thing 
like  an  accurate  description  of  the  way  in  which  this  excel* 
lent  dish  is  actually  dressed  in  the  best  alamode  beef  shops ; 
from  whence,  of  course,  it  was  impossible  to  obtain  any  in- 
formation :  however,  after  all,  t^  whole  of  the  secret  seems 
to  be  the  thickening  of  the  gravy  of  beef  that  has  been  very 
slowly*  stewed,  and  flavouring  it  with  bay-leaves  and  all- 
spice. 

Take  about  eleven  pounds  of  the  mouse  buttock,  or  clod 
of  beef,  or  a  blade-bone,  or  the  sticking-piece,  or  the  like 
weight  of  the  breast  of  veal;  cut  it  into  pieces  of  three  or 
four  ounces  each;  put  three  or  four  ov&ces  of  beef  drip- 
pings, and  mince  a  couple  of  large  onions,  and  put  them  into 
a  large  deep  stew-pan ;  as  soo^  as  it  is  quite  hot,  flour  the 
meat,  put  it  into  the  stew-pan,  keep  stirring  it  with  a  wooden 
epoon ;  when  it  has  been  on  about  ten  minutes,  dredge  it 
with  flour,  and  keep  doing  so  till  you  have  stirred  in  as  much 
as  you  think  will  thicken  it ;  then  cover  it  with  boiling  water 
(it  will  take  about  a  gallon),  adding  it  by  degrees,  and  stirring 
it  together ;  skim  it  when  it  boils,  and  then  put  in  one  drachm 
of  ground  black  pepper,  two  of  allspice,  and  two  bay-leaves ; 
set  the  pan  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  or  at  a  distance  over  it, 
and  let  it  stew  very  slowly  for  about  three  hours ;  when  you 
find  the  meat  sufficiently  tender,  put  it  into  a  tureen,  and  it  is 
xeady  for  table. 

It  is  cust<»nary  to  send  up  with  it  a  nice  salad;  see 
No.  373. 

%*  To  the  above  many  cooks  add  diampignons ;  but  as 
these  are  almost  always  decayed,  and  often  of  deleterious 
quality,  they  are  better  left  out,  and  indeed  the  bay-leaves 
deserve  the  same  prohibition. 

06s.  Here  is  a  savoury  and  substantial  meal»  almost  as 
cheap  as  the  eff^-broth  of  the  miser,  who  fed  his  valet  with 
the  water  in  wuch  his  egg  was  boiled,  or  as  the  ^  Potage  d 
ia  Pierre^  d  la  Sddat^\  mentioned  by  Giles  Rose,  in  the  4th 

*  **It  moat  be  allowed  to  man  gently  fbr  wveial  boon,  Inaccewrible  to  Ike  aoN 
bient  air,  and  on  the  even  and  penevering  heat  of  charcoal  in  the  furnace  or  atove. 
After  having  lulled  itself  in  its  own  exudations,  and  the  dissolation  of  its  auxiliaries. 
it  may  appear  at  table  with  a  powerftd  claim  toapprobatlon.**—  TMella  CXburitu  p.4IL 

t  *^*C*Mt<a«««|»c/sayBoneof  the  best  of  proverbs,  *  fw /)id  ^  mUoC  :*  ^ttir' 
the  soup  that  makes  the  soldier.*    Excellent  as  our  troops  are  in  the  ileld,  there 
canaot  be  a  more  unquestionable  ftet,  than  their  immense  Inftriorlty  to  the  French 
in  the  buaineas  of  cookery.    The  Englisb  soldier  lays  his  piece  of  ration  beef  at 
once  OB  the  eoalt,  by  which  means  the  one  and  the  better  half  is  lost,  and  tiie  otibtr 

Dd 


.« 


314  MADS  DI8HX8,  &C. 

Mge  of  his  dedication  of  the  **  perfect  schocd  of  instnictton 
for  the  oiBcers  of  the  mouth,**  idmo.  London,  1682.  ^  Two 
soldiers  were  minded  to  have  &  soup;  the  firal  of  them 
cominff  into  a  house,  and  asking  for  all  things  necessary  for 
the  mwnff  of  one,  was  as  soon  told  that  he  could  have  none 
of  those  things  there,  whereupon  he  went  away;  the  other, 
coming  in  with  a  stone  in  his  knapsack,  asked  only  for  a  pot 
to  hoil  ids  stone  in,  that  he  might  make  a  dish  of  broth  of  it 
for  his  supper,  which  was  qmckly  granted  him ;  when  the 
stone  had  Doiled  a  little  while,  he  asked  for  a  small  piece  of 
meat  or  bacon,  and  a  few  herbs  and  roots,  &c.  just  merely 
to  give  it  a  bit  of  a  flavour  ^  till,  by  little  and  little,  he  got  aU 
things  requisite,  and  so  made  an  excellent  pottage  of  his 

stone.**    See  Obs.  to  No.  493. 

* 

OBioM,  pepper,  allspice,  and  iMty-leavef 0   3 

llpounoBOi  beef 8   8 

Made  eight  qoarta 311  \ 

t«  e,  sixpence  per  quart. 

To  pot  Beef,  Veal,  Game,  or  PouUry,  ^c. — (No.  503.y 

Take  three  pounds  of  lean  gravy  beef,  rub  it  well  with  an 
ounce  of  saltpetre,  and  then  a  handful  of  common  salt ;  let  it 
lie  in  salt  for  a  couple  of  days,  rubbing  it  well  each  day; 
then  put  it  into  an  earthen  pan  or  stone  jar  that  will  just 
hold  it ;  cover  it  with  the  skin  and  fat  that  you  cut  off,  and 
pour  in  half  a  pint  of  water ;  cover  it  close  with  paste,  and 
set  it  in  a  very  slow  oven  for  about  four  hours ;  or  prepare 
it  as  directed  m  No.  496. 

r  When  it  comes  from  the  oven,  drain  the  gravy  from  it  into 
a  basin;  pick  out  the  gristles  and  the  s^ns;  mince  it  finei 
moisten  it  with  a  little  of  the  gravy  ypu  poured  from  the 
meat,  which  is  a  very  strong  consomme  (but  rather  salt),  and 
it  will  make  excellent  pease  soup,  or  browning  (see  No. 
333) ;  pound  the  meat  patiently  and  thoroughly  in  a  mortar 
witii  some  fresh  butter,*  till  it  is  a  fine  paste  (to  make  potted 
meat  smooth  there  is  nothing  equal  to  plenty  of  elbow-giease) ; 
seasoning  it  (by  degrees,  as  you  are  beating  it,)  with  a  little 

Inrned  to  a  cinder.  Whereas,  six  French  tioopers  fling  their  meaei  into  the  aaaie 
|iati  ud  eztraa  a  delicioos  aoup,  ten  times  more  nntntious  than  the  ahnple  rCH 
eould'ever  he.**— Blackwood^s  EdiTt^wfh  Moftine,  vol.  viL  p.  068. 

*  the  leH  gravy  or  butter,  and  the  more  beating,  the  better  will  be  your  polled 
betf.  If  joa  wish  it  to  Iceep :  if  for  immediate  eating,  you  may  pot  in  a  laiger  pro- 
porooB  «f  giavy  or  batter,  aa  the  meat  wili  pound  easier  and  look  and  taate  moie 


HADE  JiUBS»j  &C.  ^15 

t 

black  pepper  and  allapce,  or  cloves  poinded,  or  mace,  or 
grated  nutmeg. 

Put  it  in  pots,  press  it  down  as  close  as  possible,  and  cover 
it  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  with  clarified  butter;  to  prepare 
which,  see  receipt  No.  359,  and  if  you  wish  to  preserve  it  a 
lonff  time,  over  that  tie  a  bladder.    Keep  it  in  a  dry  place. 

(mu.  You  may  mince  a  little  ham  or  bacon,  or  an  anchovy,^ 
sweet  or  savoury  herb«,  or  an  eschalot,  and  a  little  tarragon, 
chervil,  or  bumet,  &c.,  and  pound  them  with  the  meat,  with 
a  glass  of  wine,  or  some  mustard,  or  forcemeat  (No.  376,  or 
Nos.  378  and  399*,  &c.) ;  if  you  wish  to  have  it  devilish 
savoury,  add  ragodt  powder  (No.  457),  curry  powder  (No. 
455),  or  zest  (No.  355),  and  moisten  it  with  mushroom 
catchup  (No.  439),  or  essence  of  anchovy  (No.  433),  or 
tincture  of  allspice  (No.  413),  or  essence  of  turtle  (No.  343*), 
or,  (No.  603*). 

It  is  a  very  agreeable  and  economical  way  of  using  the. 
remains  of  game  or  poultry,  or  a  large  joint  of  either  roasted 
or -boiled  beef,  veal,  ham,  or  tongue,  £c.  to  mince  it  with 
some  of  the  fat^  (or  moisten  it  with  a  little  butter,  or  No. 
439,  &c.)  and  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  the  seasoning,  &c.,  as 
in  the  former  receipt.  - 

When  either  the  teeth  or  stomach  are  ettremety  feeble,' 
especial  care  must  be  taken  to  keep  meat  tiU  it  is  tender 
before  it  is  cooked ;  or  call  in  the  aid  of  those  excellent  helps 
to  bad  teeth,  the  pestle  and  mortar.  And  see  Nos.  10>  18, 
87,  89, 175, 178;  from  185  to  350,  503,  543,  and  especially 
503.  Or  dress  in  the  usual  way  whatever  is  best  liked,  mince 
it,  put  it  into  a  mortar,  and  pound  it  with  a  little  broth  or 
melted  butter,  vegetable,  hero,  spice,  zest  (No.  355),  &c.  ac» 
cordine  to  the  taste,  &c.  of  the  eater.  The  business  of  die 
stomadi  is  thus  very  materially  facilitated. 

^  Flesh  in  small  quantities,  bruised  to  a  pulp,  may  be  very 
advantageously  used  in  fevers  attended  with  debility."*^ 
Darwin's  Zoonomiaf  vol.  ii.  *p.  400. 

**  Bfincing  or  poundmg  meat  saveth  the  grinding  of  the 
teeth;  and  therefore  (no  doubt)  is  more  nourishing,  espe- 
cially in  age,  or  to  them  that  have  weak  teeth ;  but  butter  is 
not  proper  for  weak  bodies,  and  therefore  moisten  it  in 
pounding  with  a  little  claret  wine,  and  a  verr  little  cinna^ 
mon  or  nutmeg.*'— Lord  Bacon;  ffatwrd  Ifiitoryf  Cen- 
tury 1.  54. 

06f  .— Meal  that  has  been  b<Mled  down  for  gravies,  Ac.  see 
Nos.  185*  and  353,  (which  has  heretofore  beoa  considered 
the  perquisite  of  the  cat)  and  is  comjAetely  drained  of  all  its 
vucculence,  l^eat  in  a  mortar  with  salt  and  a  little  ground 


•• «- 


310  MADE  BUHSiy  d&C. 

black  pe]M)er  and  allspice,  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  rC" 
ceipt,  and  it  will  make  as  good  potted  beef  as  meat  that  has 
been  baked  till  its  moistore  is  entirely  extracted,  which  it 
must  be,  or  it  will  not  keep  two  days. 

AfsM. — ^Meat  that  has  not  been  preyiously  salted,  will  not 
keen  so  long  as  that  which  has. 

Sandwkhar^^o.  504.) 

7  Properly  prepared,  are  an  elegant  and  conv^ent  luncheon 
or  supper,  but  have  got  out  of  lashion,  from  the  bad  manner 
in  whM^h  they  are  commonly  made  t  to  cut  the  bread  neatl^r 
with  a  sharp  Juiife  seems  to  be  considered  the  only  essen- 
tial, and  the  lining  is  composed  of  any  ofiial  odds  and  ends, 
tiiat  cannot  be  sent  to  table  in  any  other  form. 

Whatever  is  used  must  be  carefully  trimmed  from  every 
bit  of  skin,  gristle,  &c.  and  nothing  introduced  but  what  you 
are  absolutely  certain  will  be  acceptable  to  the  mouth. 

MATERIALS   FOR  MAKOfO  SAICDWICHES. 


Cold  meat,  or  poultry. 

Polled  ditto  (No.  503}. 

SaTOury  ditto  (No.  406). 

Potted  lobeler  (Na  178),  or  shrimp 

(No.  175). 
Potted  cbeew  (No.  542). 
Potted,  or  xrated  bun  (No.  900). 
Ditto,  or  griued  congue. 
Ancbovjr  (Noe.  434  and  435). 


German  sausage. 

Cold  pork  ditto  (No.  87). 

Hard  eggs,  pounded  witb  a  little  butter 

andcbeiese. 
Grated  ham,  or  beef. 
Various  forcemeats,  &c  (No.  373),  dee. 
Cuny-powder,  Best,  mustard,  pepper, 

and  salt  are  added  occaaionally. 


Meat  Cdkes.-^ffo.  504*.) 

If  you  have  any  cold  meat,  game,  or  poultry  (if  under- 
done, all  the  better),  mince  it  fine,  with  a  little  iat  bacon  or 
ham,  or  an  anchovy ;  season  it  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt ; 
mix  well,  and  make  it  into  small  cakes  three  inches  long,  half 
as  wide,  and  half  an  inch  thick :  fry  these  a  light  brown, 
and  serve  them  with  good  gravy,  or  put  it  into  a  mould  and 
boil  or  bake  it. 

N.B.  Bread-crumbs,  hard  yelks  of  eggs,  onions,  sweet 
heibs,  savoury  spices,  zest,  or  curry-powder,  or  any  of  the 
forcemeats.    See  Nos.  373  to  38S. 

Fish  cakes  for  maigre  days,  may  be  made  in  like  manner. 

Bubbh  and  Squeaky  or  friid  Beef  or  MuUon  and  Oab- 

bage. — {^o.  605.) 

'H/nien  ^midst  the  flrying  pan,  in  accents  savag^ 
The  beef,  fw  surly,  quarrels  with  the  cabbage.* 


HADE  DISHES,  d&C.  917 

For  this,  as  for  a  hash,  select  those  parts  of  the  joint  that 
have  heen  least  done ;  it  is  generally  made  with  slices  of 
cold  hoiled  salted  heef,  sprinkled  witn  a  little  pepper,  and 
just  lightly  browned  with  a  bit  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan :  if 
it  is  fried  too  much  it  will  be  hard. 

Boil  a  cabbage,  squeeze  it  quite  dry,  and  chop  it  small ; 
take  the  beef  out  of  the  frying-pan,  and  lay  the  cabbage  in 
it ;  sprinkle  a  little  pepper  and  salt  over  it ;  keep  the  pan 
moving  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes ;  lay  the  cabbage  in 
the  middle  of  a  dish,  and  the  meat  round  it. 

For  sauce,  see  No.  356,  or  No.  338. 

Hashed  B%eft  ar^d  roast  Beef  bones  boiled. — (No.  506.)   - 

To  hash  beef^  see  receipt,  Nos.  484,  5,  6,  and  Nos.  360, 
484,  and  486. 

The  best  part  to  hash  is  the  fillet  or  inside  of  the  sirloin^ 
and  the  good  housewife  will  always  endeavour  to  preserve 
it  entire  for  this  purpose.  See  Oos.  to  No.  19,  and  mock 
hare.  No.  67*. 

Roast  beef  bones  furnish  a  very  relishing*  luncheon  or 
supper,  prepared  in  the  fbllowing  manner,  with  poached 
eggs  (No.  546),  or  fried  eggs  (No.  545),  or  mashed  potatoes 
(No.  106),  as  accompaniments. 

Divide  the  bones,  leaving  good  pickings  of  meat  on  each ; 
score  them  in  squares,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  on  them, 
and  sprinkle  them  with  pepper  and  salt :  put  them  in  a  dish; 
set  them  in  a  Dutch  oven  for  half  or  three  quarters  of  an 
hour,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  meat ;  keep  turning 
them  till  they  are  quite  hot  and  brown ;  or  broil  them  on  the 
gridiron.  Brown  them,  but  don't  bum  them  black.  For 
sauce,  Nos.  355,  or  356. 

Ox-Cheek  sUnotd. — (No.  507.) 

Prepare  this  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten ;  clean  it,  and 
put  it  mto  soft'water  just  warm ;  let  it  lie  three  or  four  hours, 
then  put  it  into  cold  water,  and  let  it  soak  all  night ;  next  day 
wipe  it  clean,  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  and  just  cover  it  with 
water ;  skim  it  well  when  it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  then  put  two 
whole  onions,  stick  two  or  three  cloves  into  each,  three  tur- 
nips quartered,  a  couple  of  carrots  sliced,  two  bay-leaves, 
and  twenty-four  corns  of  allspice,  a  head  of  celery,  and  a 
bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  and  salt ;  to  these,  those  who- 
are  for  a  '^haut  gofif  may  add  Cayenne  and  garlic,  in  suchc 
proportions  as  the  palate  that  requires  them  may  desire. 

Pd2 


318  XADE  nUBMBf  d&e. 

Let  it  stew  sently  till  perfectly  tender,  i.  e.  about  tiuee 
]KHm;  then  taie  out  the  cheek,  divide  it  into  handrane 
pieces,  IKt  tohe^at  table;  skim,  and  strain  the  gravy;  melt 
an  oottce  and  a  naif  of  batter  in  a  stew-pan;  stir  into  it  as 
much  flour  as  it  will  take  up;  mix  with  it  by  decrees  a  pint 
anda  half  of  the  gravy;  add  to  it  a  table-iE^xxmful  of  basil, 
tanragottt  or  elder  vinegar,  or  the  like  quantity  of  mushroomi 
or  walnut  catchup,  or  cavice,  or  port  wine,  and  pfive  it  a  boil. 

Serve  up  in  a  soup  or  ragofit-diBh;  or  make  it  into  barley 
broth,  No.  S04. 

{  06t.— This  is  a  very  economical,  nourishing,  and  savoury 
meaL  See  ox-cheek  soup,  No.  239,  and  calf's  head  hashed. 
No.  590. 

Ox-TaUi  $tewed.^(^o,  508.) 

Divide  them  into  joints ;  wash  them ;  parboil  them ;  set 
them  on  to  stew  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them,— and 
dress  them  in  the  same  manner  as  we  have  directed  in  No. 
'631,  Stewed  Giblets,  for  which  they  are  an  excellent  substi- 
tute* 

N.B.<— See  Ox-Tan  Soup,  No.  240. 

Potted  Ham,  or  Tongue.^No.  509.) 

Cut  a  pound  of  the  lean  of  cold  boiled  Ham  or  Tongue^ 
and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  a  quarter  of  a  ponnd  of  the 
fat,  or  with  fresh  butter  (in  the  proportion  of  about  two 
ounces  to  a  pound),  till  it  is  a  fine  paste  (some  season  it  by 
degrees  with  a  little  pounded  mace  or  allspice) :  put  it  close 
down  in  pots  for  that  purpose,  and  cover  it  wim  Clarified 
Butter,  No.  259,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  let  it  stand  <me 
ni^t  in  a  cool  place.  Send  it  up  in  the  pot,  or  cut  put  in 
thm  slices.    See  O69.  on  No.  503. 

Hashed  Feal-^o.  511.) 

Prepare  it  as  directed  in  No.  484;  and  to  make  sauea  to 
warm  Veal,  see  No.  361. 

Hashed  or  minced  Veol. — (No.  511*.) 

To  make  a  hash*  cut  the  meat  into  slices ;— to  prepare 
minced  veal,  mince  it  as  fine  as  possible  (do  not  chop  it) ;  put 
it  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  few  sp(>onfuls  of  veal  or  mutton 
breflit  or  make  some  with  the  bones  and  trimmings,  as  or- 

*  See  receipt  to  haili  mutton,  Nos.  960  and  361,  and  No.  464. 


MADE  DISHES*  d&O  S19 

dered  for  veal  cutlets  (see  No,  80»  or  No.  361),  a  little  lemoii- 
peel  minced  fine,  a  spoonful  of  milk  or  cream;  thicken  with 
Butter  and  flour,  and  season  it  with  salt,  a  taUe-spoonful  of 
Imnon  pickle,  or  Basil  wine,  No.  397,  &c.,  or  a  pindi  of  curry 
powder. 

\*  If  you  have  no  cream,  beat  iro  the  yelks  of  a  conple 
of  eggs  with  a  little  milk;  line  the  dish  with  sippets  of  lig^htly 
toasted  bread. 

0&s.-*Minced  veal  makes  a  very  pretty  dish  put  into  scollop 
shells,  and  bread  crumbed  over,  and  sprinkled  with  a  little 
butter,  and  browned  in  a  Dutch  oven,  or  a  oheese-toaater. 

To  moKe  an  exceUerU  BagodtiL  of  Cold  Fea^—CNo.  513.) 

Either  a  neck,  loin,  or  fillet  of  veal,  will  fumisbthis  ex- 
cellent ragodt  with  a  veiy  little  expense  or  trouble. 

Cut  the  veal  into  hanosome  cutlets ;  put  a  piece  of  butter 
or  clean  dripping  into  a  frying-pan  i  as  soon  as  it  is  hot,  flour 
and  fry  the  veal  of  a  light  brown :  take<  it  out,  and  if  you 
have  no  gravy  ready,  make  some  as  directed  in  the  note  to 
No.  517 ;  or  put  a  pint  of  boiling  water  into  the  frying-pan, 
give  it  a  boil  up  for  a  minute,  and  strain  it  into  a  basin  while 
you  make  some  thickening  in  the  foUoMring  manner:  put 
about  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan ;  as  soon  as  it  melts, 
mix  with  it  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up;  stir  it  over  the 
fire  for  a  few  minutes,  and  gradually  add  to  it  the  gravy  you 
made  in  the  frying-pan ;  let  them  simmer  together  for  ten 
minutes  (till  thoroughly  incoiporated] ;  season  it  with  pepper, 
salt,  a  little  maci^,  and  a  win&>glassfnl  of  mushroom  catcnup 
or  wine ;  strain  it  through  a  tamis  to  the  meat,  and  stew  very 
gently  till  the  meat  is  tnoroughly  wanned.  If  you  have  any 
ready-boiled  bacon,  cut  it  in  slices,  and  put  it  in  to  warm  with 
the  meat,  or  No.  526  or  537. 

Veal  outlets,  see  No.  90,  &c. 

Bread  qf  Feal  dew9d.-^{So.  51B.) 

A  breast  of  veal  stewed  till  quite  tender,  and  smothered 
with  onion  sauce,  is  an  excellent  dish;  or  in  the  gravy  or* 
dered  in  the  note  to  No.  517, 

Breoit  tf  Feal  Bogota — (No.  517.) 

Take  off  the  under  bone,  and  cut  the  breast  in  half  lengUi- 
ways;  divide  it  into,  pieces,  about  four  inches  long,  by  two 


390  auDS  BzsnBSt  &c. 

inebes  wide*  t  e.  in  handsome  pieces,  not  too  lane  to  lielp 
9X  onee:  pot  lJx>ut  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  uyinff-pan, 
and  frj  tne  veal  till  it  is  a  light  brown,*  then  put  it  into  a 
stew-pan  with  veal  broth,  or  as  much  boiling  water  as  will 
cover  it,  a  bundle  of  sweet  maijoram,  common  or  lemoiL- 
thyme,  and  parsley,  with  four  cloves,  or  a  couple  of  blades 
01  poimded  mace,  three  young  onions,  or  one  old  one,  a  roU 
of  temon-peel,  a  dozen  coins  of  allspice  bruised,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  all  simmer  very 
gently  till  the  veal  is  tender,  i.  e.  for  about  an  hour  and  a 
naif,  if  it  is  very  thick,  two  hours ;  then  strain  off  as  much 
(about  a  quart)  of  the  gravy,  as  vou  think  you  will  want,  into 
a  basin;  set  the  stew-pan,  with  the  meat,  &c.  in  it  by  the 
iiie  to  keep  hot.  To  thicken  the  gravy  you  have  taken  out, 
pat  an* ounce  and  a  half  of  butter  into  a  clean  stew-pan; 
when  it  is  melted,  stir  in  as  much  flour  as  it  will  take;  add 
the  gravy  by  degrees ;  season  it  with  salt ;  let  it  boil  ten 
minutes ;  slum  it  well,  and  season  it  with  two  table-spoonfubs 
of  wblie  wine,  one  of  mushroom  catchup,  and  same  of 
temon-jnioe;  give  it  a  boil  up,  and  it  is  reaay :  now  put  the 
veal  into  a  rarodt  dish,  and  strain  the  gravy  through  a  fine 
sieve  to  it.    Or^ 

By  keeping  the  meat  whole,  you  will  beUer  preserve  the 
succulence  of  it 

Put  the  veal  into  a  stew-pan,  with  two  ounces  of  butter 
and  two  whole  onions  (such  as  weigh  about  two  ounces 
each) ;  put  it  on  the  fire,  and  fry  it  aboiit  five  minutes ;  then 
cover  it  with  boiling  water;  when  it  boils,  skim  it;  then  put 
in  two  small  blades  of  mace,  a  dozen  blades  of  allspice,  the 
same  of  black  pepper;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  simmer 
gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  then  strain  as  much  of  tlie 
gravy  as  you  think  you  will  want  into  a  basin ;  put  the  stew- 
pan  by  the  fire  to  keep  hot.  To  thicken  it,  put  an  ounce  and 
a  half  of  butter  into  a  clean  stew-pan :  when  it  is  melted, 
stir  in  as  much  flour  as  it  will  take ;  add  the  gravy  by  de- 
grees ;  season  it  with  salt,  and  when  it  boils  it  is  ready.  Put 
Uie  veal  on  a  dish,  and  strain  the  gravy  through  a  fine  sieve 
over  it. 

*  Some  ttxrin  make  the  gravy,  Ace.  in  the  following  manner:— ^lice  a  laife 
onion;  (^  it  brown;  drain  all  fkt  fkom  It,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  witH  a  imneli 
of  e«v«et  herbs,  a  couple  of  doaen  bMiies  of  aOspice,  same  of  blacic  pepper,  three 
Madei  of  mace,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water ;  cover  down  close,  and  boll  lentljr, 
ftr  half  an  hoar :  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve  over  the  veaL,  and  let  it  nmmer 
gentlj  ibr  about  uree  hours :  about  liair  an  Iwur  before  it  Is  done,  mix  two  table* 
spoonflilaofiloarinatearcupAilofeoidwater;  mix  some  ofthe  gravy  with  il,  and 
tMlpQl  it  into  the  stew-nan. 

N  Ji.  Three  pints  of  rau-growB  green  pease  are  lomedmes  added  when  the  veal 
to  put  in. 


XAPS  DI8HXS,  &.Cr  5SI 

0&5.*^Forcemeat  ballsy  see  No.  375,  &c; ;  tnifites^  moreBi) 
mtislurooms,  and  curry  powder^  &c.  are  sometiraes  added; 
and  rashers  of  bacon  or  nanu  Nos.  526  and  537,  or  fried  pork 
sausages,  No.  83. 

N.B^  These  are  nice  dishes  in  the  pease  season^ 

ScoUh  CoUops.'^{No.  517».) 

The  veal  must  be  cut  the  same  as  for  cutlets,  in  pieces 
about  as  big  as  a  crown-piece ;  flour  them  well,  and  fry  them 
of  alight  brown  in  fresh  butter;  lay  them  in  a  stew-pan; 
dredge  them  over  with  flour,  and  then  put  in  as  much  boiling 
water  as  will  well  cover  the  veal;  pour  this  in  by  degrees, 
shaking  the  stew-pan,  and  set  it  on  the  Are;  when  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  take  off  the  scum,  put  in  one  onion,  a  blade  of  mace, 
and  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour; 
lay  them  on  a  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  tnrough  a  sieve  over 
them. 

N.B.  Lemon-juice  and  peel,  wine,  catchup,  &c.,  are  some- 
times added;  add  curry  powder.  No.  455,  and  you  have  curry 
collops. 

Veai  0?w«.— (No.  518. 

Cut  half  a  dozen  slices  off  a  fillet  of  veal,  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  as  long  and  square  as  you  can.;  flat  them  with  a 
chopper,  and  rub  them  over  with  an  egg  that  has  been  beat 
on  a  plate ;  cut  some  fat  bacon  as  thin  as  possible,  the  same 
size  as  the  veal ;  lay  it  on  the  veal,  and  rub  it  with  a  little  of 
the  egg;  make  a  little  veal  forcemeat,  see  receipt.  No.  375,  and 
spresuf  it  veiy  thin  over  the  bacon ;  roll  up  tne  olives  tight* 
rub  them  with  the  egg^  and  then  roll  them  in  fine  bread- 
crumbs ;  put  them  on  a  lark*spit,  and  roast  them  at  a  brisk 
fire :  they  will  take  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Rump-steaks  are  sometimes  dressed  this  way. 

Mushroom  sauce,  brown  (Nos.  305  or  306),  or  beef  gravy 
(No.  389).    Vide  chapter  on  sauces,  &c. 

CU(2  Cay^s  Head  AoaAad.— (No,  519^ 
See  Obt.  to  boiled  calf's  head^  No.  lO. 

CalpiHeadhaA^arRagatU.'^No.590.)    See  No.  947. 

Wash  a  calf's  head,  which,  to  make  this  dicb  in  the  best 
Htyle,  should  have  the  skin  on,  and  boil  it,  see  No.  10;  bott 
one  h^  all  but  enough,  so  th^t  it  w^y  be  sooi^  qo^te  (km 


ZH  KAPB  DJBBBB,  &C. 

wheft  pat  into  tlie  hash  to  waim,  the  other  quite  tender:  froiki 
ttiff  hilf  take  out  the  bonee :  score  it  superficially ;  beat  up 
an  em;  pot  it  orer  the  head  with  a  paste-brush,  and  strew 
over  it  a  little  grated  bread  and  lemon-peel,  and  thyme  and 
parsley,  chopped  rery  fine,  or  in  powder,  then  bread-crumbs, 
and  put  it  in  the  Dutch  oren  to  brown. 

Cut  the  other  half-head  into  handsome  slices,  and  put  it 
into  a  stew-pan  with  a  quart  of  gravy  (No.  399),  or  turtle 
sauce  (No.  343),  with  forcemeat  balls  (Nos.  37G,  380),  egg- 
balls,  a  wine-glass  of  white  wine,  and  some  catchup,  &c. ; 
put  in  the  meat ;  let  it  warm  together,  and  skim  off  the  fat. 

Peel  the  tongue,  and  send  it  up  with  the  brains  round  it  as 
a  side  dish,  as  directed  in  No.  10 ;  or  beat  them  up  in  a  basin 
with  a  spoonful  of  flour,  two  eggs,  some  grated  lemon-peel, 
thyme,  parsley,  and  a  few  leaves  of  very  finely-minced  sase ; 
rub  them  well  together  in  a  mortar,  wim  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
scrape  of  nutmeg;  fry  them  (in  little  cakes)  a  very  light 
brown ;  dish  up  the  hash  with  the  half-head  you  browned  in 
the  middle ;  and  garnish  with  crisp,  or  curled  rashers  of  bacon, 
fried  bread  sippets  (Nos.  319,  526,  and  527),  and  the  brain 
cakes. 

N.B.  It  is  by  far  the  best  vray  to  make  a  side  dish  of  the 
tongue  and  brains,  if  you  do  send  up  aipiece  of  bacon  as  a 
companion  for  it,  or  garnish  the  tongue  and  brains  with  the 
rashers  of  bacon  and  the  forcemeat  balls,  both  of  which  are 
much  better  kept  dry  than  when  immersed  in  the  gravy  of  the 
ragodt. 

Obs. — ^In  order  to  make  what  common  cooks,  who  merely 
cook  for  the  eye,  call  a  fine,  large,  handsome  dishful,  they 
.put  in  not  only  the  eatable  parts,  but  all  the  knots  of  gristle, 
and  lumps  of  fat,  offal,  &c. ;  and  when  the  grand  gourmand 
fancies  he  is  helped  as  plentifully  as  he  could  wish,  he  often 
finds  one  solitary  morsel  of  meat  among  a  large  lot  of  lumps 
of  grisUe,  fat,  &;c. 

We  have  seen  a  very  elegant  dish  of  the  scalp  only,  sent  to 
table  rolled  up;  it  looks  like  a  sucking  pig. 

Feed  Cutlets  brciUdpkdth  orfvU-dre8$ed.^No.  521.) 

Divide  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  veal  ihto  cutlets,  one  rib 
to  each;  broil  them  plain,  or  make  some  fine  bread-crumbs; 
mince  a  little  parsley,  and  a  very  little  eschalot,  as  small  as 
possikde;  put  it  into  a  clean  stew-pan,  with  two  ounces  of 
totter,  and  fry  it  for  a  minute ;  then  put  on  a  plate  the  yelks 
of  a  couple  of  eggs ;  mix  the  herbs,  &c.  with  it,  and  season 
it  with  pepper  and  sadt :  dip  the  cutlets  into  this  nature,  and 


MAINB  DISHES,  &C.  323 

then  into  the  bread ;  lay  them  on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear  slow 
fiite,  till  they  are  nicely  browned  on  both  sides ;  they  wiU 
take  about  an  hour:  send  up  with  them  a  few  slices  of  ham 
or  bacon  fried,  or  done  in  the  Dutch  oven.  See  Nos«  536  and 
527,  and  half  a  pint  of  No.  343,  or  No«  356. 

Knuckle  of  FeaU  to  roigfoM.— (No.  523.) 

Out  a  knuckleof  veal  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thiid^ ; 
pepper,  salt,  and  flour  them ;  fry  them  a  light  brown ;  put  the 
trimmings  into  a  stew-pan,  with  the  bone  broke  in  severad 

E laces ;  an  onion  sliced,  a  head  of  celery,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
erbs,  and  two  blades  of  bruised  mace :  pour  in  warm  water 
enough  to  cover  them  about  an  inch ;  cover  the  pot  close,  and 
let  it  stew  very  gently  for  a  couple  of  hours ;  strain  it,  and 
then  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter;  put  in  a  spoonful  of 
catchup,  a  g^ass  of  wine,  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  give  it 
a  boil  up,  and  strain  into  a  clean  stew-pan ;  put  in  the  meat, 
make  it  hot,  and  serve  up. 

O65.— If  celery  is  not  to  be  had,  use  a  carrot  instead  or 
flavour  it  with  celery-seed,  or  No.  409. 

KnwMe  of  VjtaX  iUwed  rnih  JRtce.— (No.  533.) 

As  boiled  knuckle  of  veal  cold  is  not  9.  very  favourite  relish 
With  the  generality,  cut  off  some  steaks  from  it,  which  you 
may  dress  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  or  No.  531,  and  leave 
the  knuckle  no  larger  than  will  be  eaten  the  day  it  is  dressed. 
Break  the  shank-rone,  wash  it  clean,  and  put  it  in  a  large 
stew-pan  with  two  quarts  of  water,  an  onion,  two  blades  of 
mace,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt :  set  it  on  a  quick  fire ;  when 
it  boils,  take  off  all  the  scum. 

Wash  and  pick  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice;  put  it  into 
the  stew-pan  with  the  meat,  and  let  it  stew  very  gf/aHj  for 
about  two  hours :  put  the  meat,  &c.  in  a  deep  dish,  and  the 
rice  round  it. 

Send  up  bacon  with  it,  parsnips,  or  greens,  and  finely 
minced  parsley  and  butter.  No.  261. 

Mr.  Gat's  Receipt  to  sttw  a  K^wkU  (f  Feo/.— (No.  531.) 

T«ke  a  knuckle  of  veal ; 

Toa  may  bay  it  or  steal :  > « 

la  a  few  pieeei  eat  it»  1 J 

In  a  tlewing-pan  put  it ; 

Salt  pepper,  and  mace, 

von  eeaflon  liiifl  knuckle , 
Tli^a,  wliat  *•  joined  to  a  place* 

With  otber  kerbs  muckle : 

.•■•  .   -^  <         * 

*  VoIfO,  calory. 


5t4  MAsm  WMMSSf^ie. 

Ttet  whlcli  kUlM  Kfaif  WiV 
Ant  what  never  itandi  idll 'T 
ione  qiilfi  or  tbit  Iiei4 
Wbm  euidiea  are  brad. 
Wblch  much  you  will  jnend,  if 
Bocil  ipfaiacli  and  eadivei 
^d  lettace  and  beet, 
with  marifold  meet. 
Put  DO  waHr  at  all, 
Parltmakectathlfiisvaan, 
Whkh  lest  it  should  happen, 
A  dose  cover  etas  on ; 
Put  thit  pot  of  wood's  metal^ 
Inaboillnf  hotketOe; 
Andtbereknitbe, 

(Blark  the  doctrine  I  teach,) 
About,  let  me  see. 

Thrice  as  long  as  you  preach.  U 
Bo  skimminc  the  Iteoli; 
Say  grace  with  your  hat  ofi^ 
O !  then  with  what  rapture 
WW  it  fill  Dean  and  Chapter! 

Slkes  qf  Ham  or  Bacon.— (No.  636.) 

Ham,  or  bacon,  may  be  fried,  or  broiled  on  a  g^ridiron  over 
a  clear  fire,  or  toasted  with  a  fork :  take  care  to  slice  it  of  the 
same  thickness  in  every  part. 

If  you  wish  it  curled,  cut  it  in  slices  about  two  inches  long 
(^if  longer,  the  outside  will  be  done  too  much  before  the  inside 
is  done  enough);  roll  it  up,  and  put  a  little  wooden  skewer 
through  it:  put  it  in  a  cneese-toaster,  or  Dutch  oven,  for 
eirtit  or  ten  minutes,  turning  it  as  it  gets  crisp. 

This  is  considered  the  handsomest  way  of  dressing  bacon; 
but  we  like  it  best  uncurled,  because  it  is  cnsper,  and  more 
equally  done. 

Obi. — Slices  of  ham  or  bacon  should  not  be  more  than  half 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  wiU  eat  much  more  mellow 
if  soaked  in  hot  water  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then 
dried  in  a  cloth  before  they  are  broiled,  &c« 

RdMng  Rapiers  of  Bacon.— (No.  527.) 

-  If  you  haye  any  cold  bacon,  you  may  make  a  Very  nice 
dish  of  it  by  cutting  it  into  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick;  grate  some  crust  of  bread,  as  directed  for  ham  (see 
No.  14),  and  powder  them  well  with  it  on  both  sides ;  lay  the 
rashers  in  a  cheese-toaster,  they  will  be  browned  on  one  side 
in  about  three  minutes,  turn  them  and  do  the  other. 

V  BUpDoeod  Bond* 
TEifa  is  by  Dr.  Bnimar  thought  to  be  time,  or  ibyme. 
PaiBlesr.   Vide  CiiAMBBKLATiia. 

Of  this  eoniposlifoaf  see  the  works  of  the  copper-ftrthiflg  deaiit 
fVhieh  w«  foppOM  10  be  near  four  houn. 


UASE  ossHEs,  &e.  325- 

06««<-*The8e  aioe  a  delicious  accompaniment  to  poached 
or<fried  Eggs :  the  bacon  having  been  bpiled*  first,  is  tender 
and  mellow.  They  are  an  excellent  garnish  round  ve^ 
cutlets,  or  sweet-breads,  or  calf  s-head  hash,  or  green  pease, 
or  beans,  &c 

Hashed  Vemson. — (No.  528.) 

If  you  have  enough  of  its  own  gravy  left,  it  is  preferable 
to  any  to  warm  it  up  in:  if  not,  take  some  of  the  mutton 
gravy  (No.  347),  or  the  bones  and  trimmings  of  the  joint 
Rafter  you  have  cut  off  all  the  handsome  slices  you  can  to 
make  the  hash) ;  put  these  into  some  water,  and  stew  them 
gently  for  an  hour;  then  put  some  butter  into  a  stew-pan; 
when  melted,  put  to  it  as  much  four  as  will  dry  up  the 
butter,  and  stir  it  well  together ;  add  to  it  by  degfrees  the 
gravy  you  have  been  making  of  the  trimmings,  and  some  red- 
currant  jelly ;  give  it  a  boil  up;  skim  it;  strain  it  through  a 
sieve,  and  it  is  ready  to  receive  the  venison :  put  it  in,  and 
let  it  just  get  warm:  if  you  let  it  boil,  it  wUl  make  the  meat 
hard.  , 

Hashed  flare— (No.  529.) 

Cut  up  the  hare  into  pieces  fit  to  help  at  table,  and  divide 
the  joints  of  the  legs  and  shoulders,  and  set  them  by  ready. 

Put  the  trhnmings  and  gravy  you  have  left,  with  half  a 
pint  of  water  (there  should  be  a  pint  of  liquor),  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  currant  jelly,  into  a  clean  stew-pan,  and  let  it 
boil  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour :  then  strain  it  through  a 
sieve  into  a  basin,  and  pour  it  back  into  the  stew-pan ;  now 
flour  the  hare,  put  it  into  the  gravy,  and  let  it  simmer  very 
gently  till  tSe  hare  is  warm  (S)6ut  twenty  minutes) ;  cut  the 
stuffing  into  slices,  and  put  it  into  the  hash  to  get  warm,  about 
five  minutes  before  you  serve  it ;  divide  the  head,  ana  lay  one 
half  on  each  side  the  dish. 

For  J^are  soup,  see  No..  241,  mock  hare.  No.  66.* 

Jugged  JEforc— (No.  620*.)  n 

Wash  it  very  nicely;  cut  it  up  into  pieces  proper  to  help 
at  table,  and  put  them  into  a  Jugging-pot^  or  mto  a  stone  jar,t 

*  To  IwU  baecB,  lee  No.  13. 

t  Meat  diwndby  the  heat  of  boUing  water,  without  befaw  tanmediately  eipoae4 
to  It,  la  a  mode  of  cafiimrf  that  deeerres  to  be  more  geoenHjremployed :  It  becomai 
ddicatcdy  tender,  without  being  over-done,  'and  the  whole  of  the  noariahment  and 
gravy  is  preaerved.   This,  ia^onical  technicato,  la  caltod  habmm  tMirift  •  water- 

Be 


326  JCADB  maoMf  Sic. 

just  siilSeienUy  large  to  hold  it  well;  put  in  some  street 
heibe,  a  tM  or  two  of  rind  of  a  lemon,  or  a  Seville  orange, 
and  a  fine  large  onion  with  five  elores  stuck  in  it,— and  if 
3roa  wish  to  preserve  the  flavour  of  the  hare,  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  o£  water;  if  you  are  for  a  ragodu^  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
claret,  or  port  wine,  and  the  Juice  of  a  Seville  orange,  or 
lemon:  tie  the  jar  down  closely  with  a  bladder,  so  that  no 
steam  can  escape ;  put  a  little  hay  in  the  bottom  of  the  sauce- 
pan, in  which  place  the  jar,  and  pour  in  wster  tin  it  reaches 
within  four  inches  of  the  top  of  the  jar;  let  the  water  boil  for 
about  three  hours,  according  to  the  age  and  size  of  the  hare 
(take  care  it  is  not  over-done,  which  is  the  g;eneral  fault  in  all 
made  dishes,  especially  this),  keeping  it  boiling  all  the  time, 
and  fill  up  tile  pot  as  it  boUs  away.  When  quite  tender, 
strain  oiT  the  gravy  clear  from  fat ;  thicken  it  with  flour,  and 
give  it  a  boil  up :  lay  the  hare  in  a  soup-dish,  and  pour  the 
gravy  to  it. 

(Xs, — ^You  may  make  a  pudding  the  same  as  for  roast  hare 
(see  No.  397),  and  boil  it  in  a  cloth ;  and  when  you  dish  up  your 
hare,  cut  it  in  slices,  or  make  forcemeat  balls  of  it,  for  garnish.. 
,    For  sauce.  No.  346.    Ort 

!  A  much  easier  and  quicker,  and  more  certain  way  of  pro- 
ceeding, is  the  following : 

Prepare  the  hare  the  same  as  for  jugguig;  put  it  into-  a 
stew-pan  with  a  few  sweet  hert)8,  half  a  dozen  cloves,  the 
same  of  allspice  and  black  pepper,  two  lan^  onions,  and  a 
roll  of  lemon-peel :  cover  it  wim  water;  when  it  boils,  skim 
it  clean,  and  let  it  simmer  gentiy  till  tender  (about  two  hours) ; 
then  take  it  up  with  a  slice,  and  set  it  by  me  fire  to  keep  hot 
while  you  thicken  the  gravy;  take  three  ounces  of  butter, 
and  some  flour;  rub  together;  put  in  the  pjavy;  stir  it  weUa 
and  let  it  boil  about  ten  minutes;  strain  it  through  a  sieve 
over  the  hare,  and  it  is  ready. 

Drtmd  Ducht  or  Gee$e  haAed.-^{No.  530.) 

Cut  an  onion  into  small  dice ;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with 
a  bit  of  butter ;  fry  it,  but  do  not  let  it  get  any  colour ;  put 
as  much  boiling  water  into  the  stew-pan  aa  will  make  sauce 
for  the  hash;  Aicken  it  with  a  little  flour;  cut  up  the  duck, 
and  put  it  into  tiie  sauce  to  warm ;  do  not  let  it  boil ;  season 
it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  catchup. 

tatli ;  in  eoltauy,  Mn-maHt;  wUch  A.  Chappbllb,  ia  hia  ^  Mbimi  Ctok,**  8?o. 
pueSS,LcMidoD,1744,tniHiatM«*llaiir'fbath.^'   See  note  to  No.  48i. 

fUmT  BaRB,  in  her  «« QmpUU  HoHMeheeper^*^  1772,  8vo.  jpagei  105  and  M7, 
truHletes  *<  Smu  Rokert:*  non-noAT-eAucB ;  an  **MieIetM,*'  a  Hami.it  :  and  |iT«a 
yoa  a  receipt  how  to  make  **  s^jM  4  te  KAiM  r* 


\ 


UAD8   DISHES,  &C  327 

N.B.  The  legs  of  geese,  &c.  broiled,  and  laid  on  a  oed  of 
apdle  sauce,  are  sent  up  for  luncheon  or  supper.    Or^  ,' 

Divide  the  duck  into  joints ;  lay  it  by  ready;  put  the  trim- 
minffs  and  stufdnff  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  pint  aifd  a  half  of 
broth  or  water;  let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  and  then  rub  it 
through  a  sieve ;  put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stew- 
pan  ;  as  it  melts,  mix  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  with  it ;  stir  it 
over  the  lire  a  few  minutes,  then  mix  the  gravy  with  it  by 
degrees ;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  take  off  the  scum,  and  strain 
through  a  sieve  into  a  stew-pan ;  put  in  the  duck,  and  let  it 
stew  very  genUy  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  if  the  duck  is 
rather  under-roasted :  if  there  is  any  fat,  skim  it  off:  line  the 
dish  you  serve  it  up  in  with  sippet?  of  •bread  either  fried  or 
toasted. 

RagoHtis  of  Poultry 9  Game,  PigeonSf  Rabhits,^e. — (No.  530*.) 

Half  roast  it,  then  stew  it  whole,  or  divide  it  into  joints 
and  pieces  proper  to  help  at  table,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  broth,  or  as  much  water,  with  any 
trimmings  or  parings  of  meat  you  have,  one  large  onion  wiui 
cloves  stuck  in  it,  twelve  berries  of  allspice,  the  same  of 
black  pepper,  and  a  roll  of  lemon-peel ;  wnen  it  boils,  skim 
it  very  clean ;  let  it  simmer  very  gently ibr  about  an  hour 
and  a  quarter,  if  a  duck  or  fowl— longer  if  a  larger  bird ;  then 
strain  off  the  liquor,  and  leave  the  ducks  by  the  fire  to  keep 
hot ;  skim  the  fat  off;  put  into  a  clean  stew-pan  two  ounces 
Of  butter;  when  it  is  hot  stir  in  as  much  flour  aa  will  make 
it  of  a  stiff  paste ;  add  the  liquor  by  degrees ;  let  it  boil  up ; 
put  in  a  glass  of  port  wine,  and  a  little  lemon-juice,  and 
simmer  it  ten  minutes ;  put  the  ducks,  &c.  into  Uie  dish,  and 
strain  the  sauce  through  a  fine  sieve  over  them. 

Garnish  with  sippets  of  toasted,  or  fried  bread,L  No.  319. 

Obs> — If  the  poultry  is  only  half  roasted,  and  stewed  only 
till  just  nicely  tender^  this  will  be  an  acceptable  borme 
bouche  to  those  who  are  fond  of  made  dishes.  The  flavour 
may  be  varied  by  adding  eatchup,  cuny  powder,  or  any  of 
the  flavoured  vinegars. 

This  is  an  easily  prepared  side  dish,  especially  when  you 
have  a  large  dinner  to  dress;  and  coming  to  table  ready 
carved  saves  a  deal  of  time  and  trouble ;  it  is  therefore  an 
excellent  way  of  serving  poultry,  &c.  for  a  large  party.    Or, 

Roast  or  boil  the  pomtfy  in  the  usual  way ;  then  cut  it  up» 
and  jpour  over  it  a  sufficient  quantity  of  No.  305,  or  No.  3d9» 
or  No.  364,  or  No.  2. 


9t8  VAOS   pUBEBt   &C* 

.^     Stewed  tiiMete.— (Ifo.  531.) 

Clean  tiro  sets  of  giblets  (see  receipt  for  giblet  sOup,  No. 
944)  s  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  just  cover  them  with  cold 
water,  and  set  them  on  the  fire;  when  they  boil,  take  off  the 
scum,  and  put  in  an  onion,  three  cloves,  or  two  blades  of 
mace,  a  few  berries  of  black  pepper,  the  same  of  allspice,  and 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt ;  cover  the  9tew-pan  close,  and  let 
it  simmer  very  gently  till  the  giblets  are  quite  tender:  this 
will  take  from  one  hour 'and  a  half  to  two  and  a  half,  ac- 
cording to  the  age  of  the  giblets ;  the  pinions  will  be  done 
first,  and  must  then  be  taken  out,  and  put  in  again  to  wann 
when  the  gizzards  arb  done :  watch  them  that  they  do  not 
get  too  much  done :  take  them  out  and  thicken  the  sauce 
with  flour  and  butter;  let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  or  till  there 
is  just  enough  to  eat  with  the  giblets,  and  then  strain  it 
through  a  tamis  into  a  clean  stew-pan ;  cut  the  giblets  into 
mouthfuls ;  put  them  into  the  sauce  with  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  a  taole-spoonful  of  mushroom  catchup;  pour  the 
whole  into  a  soup-dish,  with  sippets  of  bread  at  the  bottom. 

Obi. — Ox-t^  prepared  in  the  same  way  are  excellent 
eating. 

Hashed  PouUry,  Game,  or  JRa5&t^.— (No.  533.) 

Cut  them  into  joints,  put  the  trimmings  into  a  stew-jian 
with  a  quart  of  the  broth  they  were  boiled  in,  and  a  large  onion 
cut  in  four ;  let  it  boil  half  an  hour ;  strain  it  through  a  sieve: 
then  put  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour  in  a  basin,  and  mix  it 
well  by  degrees  with  the  hot  broth ;  set  it  on  the  firo  to  boil 
np,  then  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve :  wash  out  the  stew- 
pan,  lay  the  poultry  in  it,  and  pour  the  gravy  on  it  (through  a 
sieve);  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  Are  to  simmer  very  gently  (it 
must  not  boil)  for  fifteen  ramutes ;  five  minutes  before  yon 
serve  it  up,  cut  the  stuffing  in  slices,  and  put  it  in  to  warm, 
then  take  it  out,  and  lay  it  round  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and 
put  the  poultry  in  the  middle;  carefully  skim  the  fat  off  the 
gravy,  tl»en  shake  it  round  well  in  tho  stew-pan,  and  pour 
it  to  the  hash. 

N.B.  You  may  gamish  the  ^^  with  bread  sippets  lightly 
toasted. 

Fulled  Turkey,  F^fid,  or  aidbe».-<No.  634.) 

Skin  a  cold  chicken,  fowl,  or  turkey;  take  off  the  fillets 
from  the  breasts,  and  put  them  into  a  stew^an  wiA  the  resi 


HADB   DI6RC8,  &C.  396 

of  the  white  meat  and  wingrg,  side-bones,  and  mermthon^hty 
with  a  pint  of  broth,  a  large  blade  of  mace  pimbded,  an 
eschalot  mineed  fine,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  roll  of 
the  peel,  some  salt,  and  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne ;  thicken  it 
wfth  flour  and  butter,  ahd  let  it  simmer  for  two  or  three 
minutes,  till  the*  meat  is  wtirm.  In  the  mean  time  score  the 
legs  and  rump,  powder  them  with  peppef  and  salt,  broil  them 
nicely  brown,  and  lay  them  on,  or  round  your  pulled  chicken. 
Obs. — Three  table-spoonfuls  of  good  cream,  or  the  yelks 
of  as  many  eggs,  will  be  a  gfeat  improvement  to  it. 

To  dress  Dressed  Thirkey,  Goose^  Fowl,  Duck,  Pigeon,  or 

-RafcJtt.— (No.  636.) 

Cut  them  la  quarters,  beat  up  an  egg  or  two  (according  to 
the  quantity  you  dress)  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and 
pepper  and  salt,  some  parsley  minced  fine,  and  a  few  crumbs 
of  bread ;  mix  these  well  together,  and  cover  the  fowl,  &;c» 
with  this  batter;  broil  them,  or  put  them  in  a  Dutch  oven,  or 
have  ready  some  dripping  hot  in  a  pan,  in  which  fry  them  a 
light  brown  colour;  tiiicken  a  little  gravy  with  some  flour,  put 
a  large  spoonful  of  catchup  to  it,  lay  the  fry  in  a  dish,  and 
pour  the  sauce  round  it.  You  may  garnish  with  slices  of 
lemon  and  toasted  bread.    See  No.  355. 

jDctiZ.— (No.  638.) 

The  gizzard  and  rump,  or  legs,  &c.  of  a  dressed  turkey, 
capon,  or  goose,  or  mutton  or  veal  kidney,  scored,  peppered, 
salted,  and  broiled,  sent  up  for  a  relish,  bleing  made  veiy  hot, 
has  obtained  the  name  of  a  •*  devil." 

06«.-^This  is  sometimes  surrounded  with  No.  366,  or  a 
sauce  of  thick  melted  butter  or  gravy,  flavoured  with  catchup 
(No.  439),  essence  of  anchovy,  or  No.  434,  eschalot  wine 
(No.  402),  curry  stuff.  (No.  465j  &c.)  See  turtle  sauce  (No. 
343),  or  grill  sauce  (No.  365\  which,  as  the  palates  of  the 
present  day  are  adjusted,  will  perhaps  please  grands  gour^ 
mands  as  well  as  "  viritahle  sauce  d'En/erJ*^ — ^Vide  School  for 
the  Officers  of  the  Mouth,  p.  368,  18mo.  London,  1683. 

"  Evenr  man  nmst  have  experienced,  that  when  he  has  got  deep  into  fala  third 
bottle,  hu  (Mlate  acquires  a  d^reo  of  torpidity,  and  hia  stomach  m  seized  with  a 
certain  craving,  which  seem  to  demand  9  stimulant  to  the  powers  of  both.  The 
piovocativea  UMd  en  such  occasions,  an  ungrateful  woM  has  combined  to  term 
devUa. 

"  The  diabht  au  ftu  d^enfer,  or  dry  devils,  are  usually  composed  of  the  broiled 
legs  and  gizzards  of  poulti^,  fish-bones,  or  biscuits ;  and,  if  pungency  alone  can 
jfomfy  timr  app^lbttioA,  never  was  title  better  deserved,  for  they  are  usually  pre- 
pared witivuit  any  other  intention  than  to  make  them  *  hot  as  their  native  elemenf  ,* 
and  any  one  who  can  swallow  them  without  tuacs  in  his  eyes,  need  be  under  na 

Ee2 


it 


330  MADE  vmBSBf  &e. 


lorihepataMorAiiiirtQr.   ItlitnM,tk«rtt>nnrtM 
tfiiil;  b«tifev«ieoclM«ttep«lue,«ttlM»ilialMrpo«ranor 


ndfhr  tiM  Mfh  flavo«ir  of  oood  wine :  in  diort,  no  bimi  dkooM 

iT«r  wit 


tiutMt  It  not  {MTMwitli  moMie,  unlflM  tlMy  be  leMOBed  by  « 
cook  i^bo  CM  polM  the  pepparboz  wftb  u  evea  •  bant  M  a  Jiidfe  alKMikl  tb0  K^^ 
oTiMlloo. 

*•  U  would  bo  an  iMiilt  to  the  nadenitmiHni  of  our  readMB,  to  nppoH  tbflm  knth 
mtof  liie  Miul  node  of  traodog  eomnioa  devUe;  but  woiboU  make  noapoiQijr 
Ibr  giTinf  tbe  moet  minato  loetniotfoM  for  the  pveparatioo  of  a  gentler  etlmiiiaiit, 
wbteb,  beeMei,  poaaMaa  tbli  advantage— chat  It  may  be  all  done  at  the  taMe,eltlier 
by  yoianalf,  or  at  least  under  your  own  immediate  Inenecition. 

**  Mix  equal  paria  of  Hoe  nit,  Cayenne  pepper,  and  carry  powder,  with  double 
tbe  quantity  of  powder  of  truHlea:  dt—ect,  «aeiitids«  erirai,  a  brace  of  woodcocln 
ratber  nader-ioaatod,  apUl  tbe  beada,  mbdivide  tba  wtaiai,  fte.  dec  and  powder  tbe 
wbole  gamy  over  witb  tbe  mlxtore;  eniab  tbe  trail  and  brataw  akng  with  tbe  ydk 
of  a  bard-boiled  eSi  a  mall  portion  of  pounded  nace,  the  gntted  peel  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  half  a  epooofulof  toy,  until  tbe  ingredlenia  be  brought  to  tbe  cooaiatence 
of  a  dne  paste :  then  add  a  table^poonful  of  catchup,  a  tuii  wuie-glasB  of  Madeira, 
and  the  Juice  of  two  Seville  oranges :  throw  this  sauce,  along  with  the  birds,  into  a 
silver  stew-dlsb,  to  be  healed  with  tfAiitM  of  wine :  cover  dose  up,  light  the  hunp. 
and  keep  gently  timmering.  and  occasionally  stirring,  until  ttie  msh  has  hnUbed 
fbe  gvotter  part  of  ttie  Uquid.  When  you  have  reason  to  suppose  it  hi  completely 
aalnrated,  pour  in  a  small  quantity  of  salad  oil,  stir  all  once  more  well  together, 
*put  out  tbe  light,  and  then  !'-Hwrve  it  round  instantly ;  for  It  is  acaioelty  neem 
to  say.  that  a  devil  should  not  only  be  hot  hi  itself,  but  eaten  hot 

**  Taws  is,  however,  one  precaution  to  be  used  in  eathig  it,  to  v^ikb  we  i 
earnestly  recommend  tbe  most  particular  attention ;  and  for  want  of  wfaicb,  mon 
than  one  accident  has  occurred.  It  is  not,  as  some  people  mii^auppose,  to  avoid 
eating  too  much  of  it  (Ibr  that  your  neighbours  will  take  good  care  to  previt);  hot 
it  is  this:  In  ocdsr  to  pick  tbe  bones,  tou  must  necessarUy  talLe  some  portion  of  it 
with  your  fingers ;  and,  as  they  thereby  become  impregnsited  witb  its  flavour,  if  yon 
afterward  chance  to  let  them  touch  your  tongue,  you  will  InlbliiMy  liek  them  totiia 
bone,  if  you  do  notswalto^  them  entira.^'-4ee  page  ISt,  Jfec  of  tbe  eittartaining 
*'  Eastft  §»  Oo04  laving.'*  ~ 

Crusts  of  Bread  for  Oieese^  4'C«— (No.  538.) 

It  is  not  uncommon  to  see  both  in  private  families  and  at 
taverns  a  loaf  entirely  spoiled,  by  furious  epicures  paring  off 
the  crust  to  eat  with  cheese :  te  si]^ly  this,  and  to  eat  with 
soinps,  ^c.  pull  lightly  into  small  pieces  the  crumb  of  a  new 
loaf;  put  them  on  a  tm  plate,  or  in  a  bakinff  dish;  set  it  in  a 
tolerably  brisk  oven  till  they  are  crisp,  and  nicely  browned, 
or  do  them  in  a  Dutch  oven. 

Toast  and  Ckeese.^No.  6^9.) 

**Happv  the  man  that  has  each  fortune  tried. 
To  whom  she  much  has  gtv*n,  and  much  denied : 
Witb  abstfaience  aU  deiicaiee  be  eees, 
And  can  ragala  tainaelf  ontoastand  cbeeae.'* 

Kziio*8  Art  of  Catkerff. 

Cut  a  shce  of  bread  about  half  an  inch  thick;  pare  off  the 
crust,  and  toast  it  very  slightly  on  one  side  so  as  just  to  brown 
it,  without  making  it  hard  or  burning  it 

Gut  a  slice  of  cheese  (good  fat  m^ow  Cheshire  cheese,  or 
double  Gloster,  is  better  than  poor,  thin,  single  Gloster)  a 


POVKBSD  CHSS8E.  331 

quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  not  so  big;  as  the  bread  by  half  an 
inch  on  each  side :  paie  off  the  rind,  cut  out  all  t&  specks 
and  rotten  parts,*  and  lay  it  on  the  toasted  bread  in  a  cheese- 
toaster  ;  carefully  watch  it  that  it  does  not  bum,  and  stir  it 
with  a  spoon  to  prevent  a  pellicle  formini^  on  the  surface. 
Have  ready  good  mustard,  pepper  and  salt. 

If  you  observe  the  directions  here  given,  the  cheese  will 
eat  mellow,  and  will  be  uniformly  done,  and  the  bread  crisp 
and  soft,  and  will  well  deserve  its  ancient  appellation  of  a 
"  rare  bit." 

Obs. — One  would  think  nothing  could  be  easier  than. to  pre- 
pare a  Welsh  rabbit ;  yet,  not  oi^y  in  private  families,  but  at 
taverns,  it  is  very  sel<K>m  sent  to  table  in  perfection.  We 
have  attempted  to  account  for  this  in  the  last  paragraph  of 
Oh9.  to  No,  493. 

TMsUdOitese,  ^o.2.-^No.SiO.) 

We  have  nothing  to  add  to  the  directions  given  for  toasting 
the  cheese  in  the  last  receipt,  except  that  in  sending  it  up,  it 
will  save  much  time  in  portioning  it  out  at  table,  if  you  have 
half  a  dozen  small  silver  or  tin  pans  to  iit  into  the  cheese- 
toaster,  and  do  the  cheese  in  these :  each  person  may  then 
be  helped  to  a  separate  pan,  and  it  will  keep  the  cheese  much 
hotter  tlmn  the  usual  way  of  eating  it  on  a  cold  plate. 

Mem.  Send  up  with  it  as  many  cobblersf  as  you  have  pans 
of  cheese* 

06». — Ceremony  seldom  triumphs  more  completely  over 
contort  than  in  the  serving  out  of  this  dish;  which,  to  be 
presented  to  the  palate  in  perfectimi,  it  is  imperatively  indis- 
pensable that  it  be  introduced  to  the  mouth  as  soon  as  it  ap- 
pears on  the  table. 

Buttered  Toast  and  C%eese.^(No.  541.) 

Prepare  a  round  of  toast;  butter  it;  grate  over  it  good 
Chesmre  cheese  about  half  the  thickness  of  the  toast,  and 
give  it  a  brown. 

Pounded  C^Me.-^(No«  549.) 

Cut  a  pound  of  ^od  mellow  Chedder,  Cheshire,  or  North 
Wiltshire  cheese  mto  thin  bits ;  add  to  it  two,  and  if  the 

*  Botten  cheeae  toasted  ii  the  im  phts  lUtra  of  htua  gcAt,  and  oidy  ratable  by  the 
thoHNJi^-bied  gowmoMd  in  the  inoflt  inverted  state  of  Die  jaded  airpeUte.  / 
t  The  Duraery  name  for  bread  toaated  on  one  side  only. 


^^        { 


d58  1IA0ABO1II, 

eheeia  it  diy*  three  oancea  of  fresh  butter;  poimd,  aad  ruh 
them  w^  together  in  a  mortar  till  it  is  quite  smooth. 

O^. — ^When  cheese  is  dry,  and  for  those  whose  digestion 
is  feeUe,  this  is  the  best  way  of  eating  it;  and  spread  on 
bread,  it  makes  an  excellent  luncheon  or  supper. 

N.B.  The  piyuamee  of  this  is  sometimes  increased  by 
pounding  with  it  curry  powder  (No.  455),  ground  spice,  black 
pepper,  cayenne,  and  ahttle  made  mustard ;  and  some  moisten 
It  with  a  glass  of  sherry.  If  pressed  down  hard  in  a  jar, 
and  covered  with  clarified  butter,  it  will  keep  for  several  days 
in  cool  weather. 

Jlliau»roiit.— (No.  543.)    See  Mticaroni  Pwddingfor  the 

Boiling  of  it. 

The  usual  mode  of  dressing  it  in  this  country  is  by  adding 
a  white  sauce,  and  parmesan  or  Cheshire  cheese,  and 
burning  it ;  but  this  msJces  a  dish  which  is  proverbially  un- 
wholesome :  its  bad  qualities  arise  from  the  oiled  and  burnt 
cheese,  and  the  halfniressed  flour  and  butter  put  into  the 
white  sauce. 

Macaroni  plain  boiled,  and  some  rich  stock  or  portable 
soup  added  to  it  quite  hot,  will  be  found  a  delicious  dish  and 
very  wholesome.  Or,  boil  macaroni  as  directed  in  the  re- 
ceipt for  tiie  pudding,  and  serve  it  quite  hot  iaa  deep  tureen, 
and  let  each  guest  add  grated  parmesan  and  cold  butter,  or 
oiled  butter  served  hot,  and  it  is  excellent ;  this  is  the  most 
common  Italian  mode  of  dressing  it.  Macaroni  with  cream, 
sugar,  and  cinnamon,  or  a  little  varicelli  added  to  the  cream* 
makes  a  very  nice  sweet  dish. 

Engluh  way  of  dressing  Macaroni, 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  riband  macaroni  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  or  broth,  or  water ;  let  it  boil 
gently  till  it  is  tender,  this  will  take  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour ;  then  put  in  an  ounce  of  grated  cheese,  and  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  salt ;  mix  it  well  together,  and  put  it  on  a  dish,  and 
stew  over  it  two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  or  Cheshire 
cheese,  and  give  it  a  light  brown  in  a  Dutch  oven.  Or  put 
allthe  cheese  into  the  macaroni,  and  put  bread-crumbs  over 
.the  top. 

Macaroni  is  very  good  put  into  a  thick  sauce  with  some 
shreds  of  dressed  ham,  or  in  a  curry  sauce.  Riband  maca- 
roni is  best  for  these  dishes,  and  shovld  not  be  done  so 
much. 


N* 


0HSLBTTX9.  339 

Miuaront  Pudding, 

One  of  the  most  excellent  preparations  of  macaroni  is  the 
llmbale  de  Macaroni.  Simmer  naif  a  pound  of  macaroni  in 
plenty  of  water,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  salt,  till  it  is  tender; 
but  take  care  not  to  have  it  too  soft ;  though  tender,  it  should 
be  firm,  and  the  form  entirely  preserved,  and  no  part  begin- 
ning to  melt  (this  caution  will  serve  for  the  preparation  of 
all  macaroni).  Strain  the  water  from  it ;  beat  up  five  yelks 
and  the  white  of  two  eggs;  take  half  a  pint  of  the  best 
cream,  and  the  breast  of  a  fowl,  and  some  thin  slices  of  ham. 
Mince  the  breast  of  the  fowl  with  the  ham ;  add  them  with 
from  two  to  three  table-spoonfuls  of  finely-grated  parmesan 
cheese,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  all  these  with 
the  macaroni,  and  put  into  a  pudding-mould  well  buttered, 
said  then  let  it  steam  in  a  stew-pan  of  boiling  water  for  about 
an  hour,  and  serve  quite  hot,  with  rich  gravy  (as  in  Omelette). 
See  No.  543*. 

Obs. — This,  we  have  heen  informed,  is  considered  by  a 
grand  gourmand  as  the  most  important  recipe  which  was 
added  to  the  collection  of  his  cook  during  a  gastronomic  tour 
through  Europe;  it  is  not  an  uncommon  mode  of  preparing 
macaroni  on  the  continent. 

Omelettes  and  various  ways  of  dressing  Eggs. — (No.  543*.) 

There  is  no  dish  which  in  this  country  may  be  considered 
as  coming  under  the  denomination  of  a  made  dish  of  the 
second  order,  which  is  so  generally  eaten,  if  good,  as  an 
omelette ;  and  no  one  is  so  often  badly  dressed :  it 'is  a  very 
faithful  assistant  in  the  construction  of  a  dinner. 

When  you  are  taken  by  surprise,  and  wish  to  make  an 
appearance  beyond  what  is  provided  for  the  every-day  dinner,  | 

a  little  portable  soup  melted  down,  and  some  zest  (No.  355), 
and  a  few  vegetables,  will  make  a  good  broth;  a  pot  of  the 
stewed  veal  of  Morrison's,  warmed  up;  an  omelette;  and 
some  apple  or  lemon  fritters,  can  all  be  ffot  ready  at  ten 
minutes'  notice,  and  with  the  original  foundation  of  a  leg  of  i 

mutton,  or  a  piece  of  beef,  will  make  up  a  very  good  dinner 
when  company  unexpectedly  arrives,  in  the  country.  j 

The  ffreat  merit  of  an  omelette  is,  that  it  should  not  be  •' 

gieasy,  burnt,  nor  too  much  done :  if  too  much  of  the  white  I 

of  the  eggs  is  left  in,  no  art  can  prevent  its  being  hud,  if  it 
is  done :  to  dress  the  omelette,  the  fire  should  not  be  too  hot» 
as  it  is  an  6bject  to  have  the  whole  sidistaiice  heated,  without 
much  browmng  the  outside. 

n 


334  OHSLITTBS.  « 

One  of  the  great  errors  in  cookinff  an  omelette  is,  that  it 
is  too  thin;  consequently,  instead  of  iteling  full  and  moist 
in  the  mouth,  the  suhstance  presented  is  little  better  than  a 
piece  of  fined  leather :  to  get  the  omelette  thick  is  one  of  the 
ffreat  objects.  With  respect  to  the  flavours  to  be  introduced, 
Swse  are  infinite ;  that  which  is  most  common,  however^  is 
the  best,  viz.  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  chives  or  onions,  or 
eschalots:  however,  one  made  of  a  mixture  of  tarragon, 
chervil,  and  parsley,  is  a  very  delicate  variety,  omitting  or 
adding  the  onion  or  chives.  Of  the  meat  flavours,  the  veal 
kidney  is  the  most  delicate,  and  is  the  most  admired  by  our 
neiffhbours  the  French :  this  should  be  cut  in  dice,  and  should 
be  dressed  (boiled)  before  it  is  added;  in  the  same  manner, 
ham  and  anchovies,  shred  small,  or  tongue,  will  make  a  very 
delicately  flavoured  dish. 

The  objection  to  an  omelette  is,  that  it  is  too  hch,  which 
makes  it  advisable  to  eat  but  a  small  quantity.  An  addition 
of  some  finely  mashed  potatoes,  about  two  table-spoonfuls, 
to  an  omelette  of  six  eggs,  will  much  lighten  it. 

Omelettes  are  often  served  with  rich  gravy;  but,  as  a  gene- 
ral principle,  no  si:d)dtance  which  has  been  fHed  should  be 
served  in  gravy,  but  accompanied  by  it .  or  what  ought  to 
eat  dry  and  crisp,  becomes  soddened  and  flat 

In  the  compounding  the  gravy,  great  care  should  be  taken 
that  the  flavour  does  not  overcome  that  of  the  omelette,  a 
thing  too  little  attended  to :  a  fine  gravy,  with  a  flavouring 
of  sweet  herbs  and  onions,  we  think  the  best ;  some  add  a  few 
drops  of  tarragon  vinegar ;  but  this  is  to  be  done  only  witii 
great  care :  gravies  to  Omelettes  are  in  general  thickened : 
this  should  never  be  done  with  flour;  potato  starch,  or  arrow 
root,  is  the  best. 

Omelettes  slu>uld  be  fried  in  a  small  frying-pan  made  for 
that  purpose,  with  a  small  quantity  of  butter.  The  omelette's 
great  merit  is  to  be  thick,  so  as  not  to  taste  of  the  outside; 
therefore  use  only  half  &e  number  of  whites  that  you  do 
yelks  of  eggs :  every  care  must  be  taken  in  frying,  even  at 
the  risk  of  not  having  it  quite  set  in  the  middle :  an  omelette, 
which  has  so  much  vogue  abroad,  is  here,  in  general,  a  thin 
doubled-up  piece  of  leather,  and  harder  than  soft  leather 
sometimes.  The  fact  is,  that  as  much  care  must  be  bestowed 
on  the  frying,  as  should  be  taken  in  poaching  an  egg... -A 
salamander  is  necessary  to  those  who  will  have  ue  top 
brown;  but  the  kitchen  shovel  may  be  substituted  for  it. 

The  f<^owing  receipt  is  the  basis  of  all  omelettes,  of 
which  ]rou  may  make  an  endless  varie^,  by  taking,  instead 
of  the  parsley  and  eschalot^  a  portion  of  sweet  herbp^  or  any 


i  , 


OMELfiTTCS.  3dd 

of  the  articles  Numerated  in  the  table  of  materials  used  for 
making  forcemeats^  see  No.  873 ;  or  any  of  the  forcemeats 
between  Nos.  373  ani  386« 

Omelettes  are  called  by  the  name  of  what  is  added  to 
flavour  them:  a  ham  or  tongue  omelette;  an  anchovy,  or 
veal  kidney  omelette,  &c. :  these  are  prepared  exactly  in  the 
same  way  as  in  the  first  receipt,  leaving  out  the  parsley  and 
eschalot,  and  mincing  the  ham  or  kidney  very  fine,  &c.,  and 
adding  that  in  the  place  of  them,  and  then  pour  over  them  all 
sorts  of  thickened  gravies,  sauces,  &c. 

Receipt  fir  the  common  Omelette* 

Five  or  six  eggs  will  make  a  good-sized  omelette ;  break 
them  into  a  basin,  and  beat  them  well  with  a  fork ;  and  add 
a  salt-spoonful  of  salt ;  have  ready  chopped  two  drachms  of 
onion,  or  three  drachms  of  parsley,  a  good  clove  of  eschalot 
minced  very  fine;  beat  it  well  up  with  the  egffs ;  then  take 
four  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  and  break  half  of  it  into  little 
bits,  and  put  it  into  the  omelette,  and  the  other  half  into  a  very 
clean  frying:-pan ;  when  it  is  melted,  pour  in  the  omelette, 
and  stir  it  with  a  spoon  till  it  begins  to  set,  then  turn  it  up  all 
round  the  edges,  and  when  it  is  of  a  nice  brown  it  is  done : 
the  safest  way  to  take  it  out  is  to  put  a  plate  on  the  omelette, 
and  turn  the  pan  upside-down:  serve  it  on  a  hot  dish;  it 
should  never  be  done  till  just  wanted.  If  maigre,  grated 
cheese,  shrimps,  or  oysters.  If  oysters,  boil  them  four 
minutes,  and  tsike  away  the  beard  and  gristly  part ;  they  may 
either  be  put  in  whole,  or  cut  in  bits.    Or^ 

Take  eggs  ready  boiled  hard,  and  either  fry  them  whole, 
or  cut  them  in  half;,  when  they  are  boiled  (they  will  take  five 
minutes\  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  till  you  want  to  use  them ; 
then  roll  them  lightly  with  your  hand  on  a  table,  and  they 
will  peel  without  breaking;  put  them  on  a  cloth  to  dry,  and 
dredge  them  lightly  with  flour ;  beat  two  eggs  in  a  basin,  dip 
the  effgs  in,  one  at  a  time,  and  then  roU  them  in  fine  bread- 
crumbs, or  in  duck  (No.  378)  or  veal  stuffing  (No.  374);  set 
them  away  ready  for  frymg ;  fry  them  in  hot  oil  or  clarified 
butter,  serve  them  up  with  mushroom  sauce,  or  any  other 
thickened  sauce  you  please ;  crisp  parsley  is  a  pwtty  gar^ 
nish*    Or^ 

f^  not  boil  the  eggs  till  witnted;  boil  them  ten  minutes, 

Eeel  them  as  above,  cut  them  in  half,  put  thein  on  a  dish,  and 
ave  ready  a  sauce  made  of  two  ounces  of  butter  and  flour 
well  rubbed  together  on  a  plate,  and  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with 
three  quarters  oi\  pint  of  good  milk ;  set  it  on  the  fire»  and 


356 

•tir  it  till  it  boils;  if  it  is  not  quite  smooth,  sflain  it  througli 
a  slere,  diop  some  panley  ami  a  clove  of  eschalot  as  fine  as 
possible,  and  put  in  your  sauce :  season  it  with  salt  to  your 
taste:  a  little  mace  and  lemon-peel  boiled  with  the  sauce, 
will  improre  it :  if  you  like  it  still  richer,  you  may  add  a 
little  cream,  or  the  yelks  of  two  eegs,  beat  up  with  two  tafble- 
spoonfuls  of  milk,  and  stir  it  in  uie  last  thing :  do  not  let  it 
boil  after;  place  the  half  eggs  on  a  dish  with  the  yelks 
upward,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 

N.B.  Any  cold  fish  cut  in  pieces  may  be  wanned  in  the 
aboTe  sauce  for  a  sent  dinner.    Or^ 

8lice  yeiT  thin  two  onions  weighing  about  two  ounces 
each ;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  wiSi  three  ounces  of  butter; 
keep  them  covered  till  they  are  just  done ;  stir  them  every 
now  and  then,  and  when  they  are  of  a  nice  brown,  stir  in  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  them  of  a  stiff  paste ;  then  by  de- 
grees add  as  much  water  or  milk  as  will  make  it  the  thick- 
ness of  good  cream ;  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt  to  your 
taste ;  have  ready  boiled  hard  four  or  five  eggs — ^you  may 
either  shred  them,  or  cut  them  in  halves  or  quarters ;  then 
put  them  in  the  sauce :  when  they  are  hot  they  are  ready: 
garnish  them  with  sippets  of  bread. 

Or,  have  ready  a  plain  omelette,  cut  into  bits,  and  put  them 
into  the  sauce. 

Or,  eut  off  a  little  bit  of  one  end  of  the  eggs,  so  that  they 
may  stand  up ;  and  take  out  the  yelks  whole  of  some  of  them, 
and  cut  the  whites  in  half,  or  in  quarters. 

06«.— -This  is  called  in  the  Parisian  kitchen,  *'  eggs  a  la  trip, 
with  a  roux." 

Afartvop-Bonef. — (No.  544.) 

Saw  the  bones  even,  so  that  they  will  stand  steady;  put  a 
piece  of  paste  into  the  ends :  set  them  upright  in  a  saucepan, 
and  boil  till  they  are  done  enough :  a  beef  marrow-^bone  will 
require  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours;  serve  fresh- 
toasted  bread  with  them. 

Eggs  fried  wiik  Bacon. — (No.  545.) 

Lay  some  slices  of  fine  streaked  bacon  (not  more  than  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick)  in  a  clean  dish,  and  toast  them 
before  the  fire  in  a  cheese-toaster,  turning  them  when  the 
upper  side  is  browned ;  first  ask  these  who  are  to  eat  the 
bacon,  if  they  wish  it  much  or  little  dene,  t.  e.  curled  and 
crisped,  see  No.  636,  or  mellow  and  soft  (No.  527) :  if  the 
latter,  paiboil  it  first. 


£GQ3.  337 

We^deanaed  (see  No.  83)  drippings  or  laird,  or  fireaii  but* 
ler,  an  tiier  best  mts  for  frying  eggs. 

Be  sure  the  frying-pan  is  quite  clean;  when  the  fat  is  hot^ 
break  ttro  or  three  eggs  into  it ;  do  not  turn  tiKm,  but,  while 
they  are  ficying,  keep  pouring  some  of  die  fat  oyer  them  with 
a  spoon;  wiien  the  yelk  just  begins  to  look  white,  whidk  it 
will  in  about  a  couple  of  minutes,  they  are  done  enough; 
the  wliite  must  not  lose  its  trane^areney,  but  the  yelk  be 
seen  blushing  through  it :  if  they  are  done  nicely,  Ihey  wili 
lofsk  as  white  and  delicate  as  if  diey  had  been  poached ;  take 
them  up  with  a  tin  slice,  drain  the  fat  from  them,  trim  them 
neatly,  and  send  them  up  with  the  bac(m  round  them.. 

Ragottt  ^  E^s  and  Bocom.— -(No.  545*.) 

Boil  half  a  dozen  eggs  for  ten  minutes ;  throw  them  into 
cold  water;  peel  them  and  cut  them  into  halves ;  pound  the 
yelks  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  about  an  equal  quantity  of 
the  white  meat  of  dressed  fowl,  or  veal,  a  little  chopped  pars- 
ley, an  anchovy^  an  eschalot,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  butter, 
a  tablenspoonful  of  mushroom  catchup,  a  little  Cayenne,  some 
bread-crumbs,  and  a  very  little  beaten  mace,  or  allsmce; 
incorporate  them  well  together,  and  fill  the  halves  of  the 
wlutes  with  this  mixture ;  do  them  over  with  the  yelk  of  an 
egg,  and  brown  them  in  a  Dutch  oveU)  and  serve  them  on 
relishmg  rashers  of  bacon  or  ham,  see  No.  527. 

For  sauce,  melted  butter,  flavoured  to  the  fancy  of  the 
caters,  with  mushroom  catchup,  anchovy,  curry-powder  (No* 
4^5),  or  zest  (No.  255). 

To  poach  Eggs. — (No*  546.) 

The  cook  who  wishes  to  display  her  skill  in  poaching, 
must  endeavour  to  procure  eggs  that  have  been  laid  a  couple 
of  days — ^those  that  are  quite  new-laid  are  so  milky  that,  tsoce 
uU  the  care  you  can,  your  cooking  of  them  will  seldom  pro- 
cure you  the  praise  of  being  a  prime  poacher;  you  must 
have  fresh  eggs,  or  it  is  equafly  impossible. 

The  beauty  of  a  poached  egg  is  for  the  yelk  to  be  seen 
blushinff  through  the  white,  which  should  only  be  just  suffi- 
ciently hardened,  to  form  a  transparent  veil  for  the  egg. 

Have  sbme  boiling  water*  in  a  tea-kettle ;  pass  as  much 
of  it  through  a  clean  cloth  as  will  half  fill  a  stew-pan;  break 
the  egg  into  a  cup,  and  when  the  water  boils,  remove  the 
stew-pan  from  the  stove,  and  gently  slip  the  egg  into  it;  it 

*  Suatoiiigthewaterti«iii]idlflpennblemMaaUoii,iiiiles»]rooiiiei^^ 


338  £008. 

vast  stand  till  the  white  is  set;  then  put  it  over  a  very 
moderate  fire,  and  as  soon  as  the  water  boils,  the  eg^  is 
ready;  take  it  up  with  a  slice,  and  neatly  round  off  the  n^ged 
edges  of  the  white ;  send  them  up  on  bread  toasted  on  one 
Mb  only,*  with  or  without  butter;  or  without  a  toast,  gar- 
nished with  streaked  bacon  (Nos.  5S6  or  687),  nicely  fhed, 
or  as  done  in  No.  545,  or  slices  of  broiled  beef  or  mutton 
(No.  487),  anchovies  (Nos.  434  and  435),  pork  sausages  (No. 
BTV.  or  smnage  (No.  122). 

Obt.— The  bread  should  be  a  little  larger  than  the  egg^  and 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  only  just  give  it  a  yello^w 
colour :  if  you  toast  it  brown,  it  will  get  a  bitter  flavour ;  or 
moisten  it  by  pouring  a  little  hot  water  upon  it :  some  sprinkle 
it  with  a  few  drt]^  of  vinegar,  or  of  essence  of  anchovy 
(No.  433). 

To  baa  Eggt  to  eat  in  the  SheUf  or  fir  SqeWs.— {No.  547.)     ' 

The  fresher  laid  the  better:  put  them  into  boiling  water; 
if  you  like  the  white  just  8et,t  about  two  minutes  roiling  is 
enough;  a  new-laid  egg  will  take  a  little  more;  if  you  wish 
the  ydtk  to  be  set,  it  wUl  take  three,  and  to  boil  it  liard  for  a 
salad,  ten  minutes.    See  No.  373. 

Obi. — A  new-laid  egg  will  require  boiling  longer  than  a 
stale  one,  by  half  a  minute. 

Tin  machines  for  boiling  eggs  on  the  breakfast  table  are 
sold  by  the  ironmongers,  which  perform  the  process  very 
reffularly:  in  four  minutes  the  wmte  is  just  set. 

N.B.  **■  Egffs  may  be  preserved  for  twelve  months,  in  a 
sweet  and  palatable  state  for  eating  in  the  i^ell,  or  using  for 
salads,  by  boiling  them  for  one  minute ;  and  when  wanted 
for  use  let  them  be  boiled  in  the  usual  maimer :  the  white 
may  be  a  little  tougher  than  a  new-laid  egg,  but  the  yelk  will 
show  no  difference.^ — See  Hunter's  CuTina,  page  257. 

Eg^gipoadud  with  Sauce  rf  minced  Ham* — (No.  548.) 

Poach  the  eggs  as  before  directed,  and  take  two  or  three 
slices  of  boiled  ham;  mince  it  fine  with  a  gherkin,  a  morsel 
of  onion,  a  little  parsley,  and  pepper  and  salt;  stew  all 
together  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  serve  up  your  sauce  about 

*  **A  emipte  of  poacbed  eggi,  with  a  few  fine,  dry,  firied  collom  of  pure  bacon, 
are  not  bad  for  breakflksi,  or  to  lw«in  a  meaV  sayi  Sir  Kbhslm  mouTt  M.D.  iii  liis 
datetjjf  Cookery,  London,  lfl09,  page  167. 

t  **Tlie  Ifghteat  mode  of  preparuur  eggs  for  Uie  table,  is  to  boil  them  only  as  long 
aa  ia  neeeaniy  to  coagulate  ilinitly  ttie  greater  part  of  the  white,  without  deprlvioe 
tlw  yeOc  of  its  fluldity."->Dr.  Ft  arsom'b  Mat  AUm.  Qvo.  1608,  p.  3& 


TEA.  339 

Half  boiling ;  put  the  eggs  in  a  dish,  squeeze  over  the  juice 
of  half  a  ^ville  orange,  or  lemon,  and  pour  the  sauce  over 
them. 

Friid  Eggs  and  minced  Ham  or  Bacon. — (No.  549.) 

Choose  some  very  fine  bacon  streaked  with  a  good  deal  of 
lean ;  cut  this  into  very  thin  slices,  and  afterward  into  small 
square  pieces ;  throw  them  into  a  stew-pan,  and  set  it  over  a 
gentle  fire,  that  Uiey  may  lose  some  of  their  fat.  When  as 
much  as  will  freely  come  is  thus  melted  from  them,  lay  them 
on  a  warm  dish.  Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  ladle-fuU  of  melted 
bacon  or  lard;  set  it  on  a  stove ;  put  in  about  a  dozen  of  the 
small  pieces  of  bacon,  then  stoop  the  stew-pan  and  break  in 
an  egg.  Manage  this  carefully,  and  the  egg  will  presently 
be  done :  it  will  be  very  round,  and  the  littie  dice  of  bacon 
will  stick  to  it  all  over,  so  that  it  will  make  a  very  pretty 
appearance.  Take  care  the  yelks  do  not  harden;  when  the 
egg  is  thus  done,  lay  it  carefuUy  in  a  warm  dish,  and  do  the 
others. 

\^  They  reckon  685  ways  of  dressing  eggs  in  the  French 
kitchen:  we  hope  our  half  dozen  receipts  give  sufficient 
variety  for  the  English  kitchen. 

Tea.*— (No.  550.) 

'<  The  Jesuit  that  came  from  China,  A.  D.  1664,  told  Mr. 
Waller,  that  to  a  drachm  of  tea  they  put  a  pint  of  water,  and 

*  VARIOUS  WAYS  OF  JUSlHQ  TKA. 
1. 

"  The  Japanae  redoce  their  tea  to  a  floe  powder  by  pounding  it ;  tbey  put  certaia 
portions  of  this  into  a  tea-cup,  pour  IwiUng  water  upon  it,  stir  it  up,  and  drinic  it  as 
soon  as  it  is  cool  enough/' 

»  DVBinSSON*S  MAMNBK  OF  IIAXINO  TCA. 

"  Put  the  tea  into  a  kettle  with  cold  water ;  cover  it  close,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and 
raalce  it  all  but  boil ;  when  you  see  a  sort  of  white  scum  on  the  surtlice,  tatce  it  from 
the  fire ;  when  the  leaves  sink  it  is  ready." 

a 

The  night  before  you  wish  to  have  tea  ready  for  drinking,  pour  on  it  as  much 
cold  water  as  vou  wish  to  make  tea ;  next  rooming  pour  off  the  clear  liquor,  and 
when  you  wish  to  drink  it,  make  it  warm." 

The  above  are  from  "Z'^rc  du  JAniionadier'*  de  DuBinsBOir,  Paris,  n.  367, 
988.    Or,  »         IK.       . 

"  A  great  savina  may  be  made  by  maUog  a  tincture  of  tea,  thus :  pour  boiling 
water  upon  it,  and  let  it  stand  twenty  minutes,  putting  hito  each  cup  no  more  than 
is  necessaiy  to  fill  it  about  one-third  ftill :  fill  each  cup  up  with  hot  water  from  an 
urn  or  ketUe ;  thus  the  tea  will  be  always  hot  and  equally  strong  to  the  end,  and 
one  tea-spoonful  wiU  be  found  enough  for  three  cups  for  each  person :  according  to 


540  PUDDOOS. 

ftwfoeiitljr  take  the  yelke  of  two  new-laid  egft,  and  beat 
tiieii  op  witk  at  muck  fine  sugar  as  is  sufficient  for  the  tea, 
and  stir  all  well  togetner.  He  also  infonned  him,  thai  we 
let  the  hot  water  remain  too  long  soaking  iqion  the  tea,  which 
makes  it  extract  into  itself  the  earthy  puts  of  the  herb;  the 
water  must  remain  upon  it  no  longer  than  while  yon  can  say 
the  ' Mi$erer€*  psalm  reiy  leisurely;  yon  hare  then  only  the 
spiritual  part  of  the  tea,  the  proportion  of  which  to  the  water 
must  be  about  a  drachm  to  a  pint.** — Sir  Kbhslm  Digbt's 
Cboktryt  London,  1669,  page  176. 

06f .--The  addition  of  an  egg  makes  the  "  OuneH  Soupy** 
a  more  nutritious  and  substantial  meal  for  a  traveller. 

Coffee,  as  used  on  the  Continent,  serves  the  double  pwpose 
of  an  ameable  tonic,  and  an  exhilarating  beverage,  without 
the  unMeasant  eifecte  of  vrine. 

Coflee,  as  drunk  in  England,  debilitates  the  stomach,  and 
produces  a  slight  nausea.  In  France  and  in  Italy  it  is  made 
strong  from  the  best  coffee,  and  is  poured  out  hot  and  trans- 
parent. 

hk  England  it  is^  usually  made  from  bad  coffee,  served  out 
tepid  and  muddy,  and  drowned  in  a  deluge  of  water,  and 
sometimes  deserves  the  title  given  it  in  **  the  Petition  against 
Coffee,"  4to.  1674,  page  4,  '*  a  base,  black,  thick,  nasty,  bitter, 
stinking  puddle  water." 

To  miake  Coffee  fit  for  use,  you  must  employ  the  German 
filter,--^y  at  least  4t.  the  pound  for  it, — and  take  at  least  an 
ounce  for  two  breakfast-cups. 

No  coffee  will  bear  drinking  with  what  is  called  milk  in 
London. 

London  people  should  either  take  their  coffee  pure,  or  put 
a  couple  01  tea^spoonfuls  of  cream  to  each  cup. 

N.B.  The  above  is  a  contribution  from  an  mtelligent  tra- 
veller, who  has  passed  some  years  on  the  Continent. 

Suet  Puddingj  Wiggy*s  way. — (No.  551.) 
Suet,  a  quarter  of  a  pound;  flour,  three  table-spoonfuls; 

th«  prcKDt  mode  of  Disking  it,  three  tiroes  the  (}uantity  is  often  used.**-~See  Dr. 
TEUSLBft*8  Wav  to  he  Rich  and  RemeetaHe^  8vo.  1796,  page  S7. 

[Tea  sboold  only  Iw  made  as  aa  inf  usiim,-- that  i%  ponrii^  boiling  hot  water  upon 
it,aiidlettlogftBtamtafbwmtmitei  lodraw.    A.] 

*  See  Dr.  Hoogbton  oq  CoAe,  in  vol.  xxi.  of  the  PkU.  TVoaf.page  311. 

[The  beet  of  coflbe  la  tanparted  into  this  country,  and  can  be  liad  cheap  and 
Sood.    A.}  • 


F17J>I>XN6S.  941 

^gp^9  ^^^9  ^^^  ^  li^^l®  grated  gingery  milk,  hidf  a  piat. 
MiiUse  "^e  6uet  as  fyne  as  possible,  roll  it  with  tlie  roUing-pin 
sb  as  to  mix  it  well  with  the  flour;  beat  up  the  eggs,  mix 
them  with  the  milk,  and  then  mix  all  together;  wet  your 
cloth  well  in  boiling  water,  dour  it,  tie  it  loose,  put  it  mto 
boiling  water,  and  boil  it  an  hour  and  a  quarter. 

Mrs.  Glasne  has  it,  *'when  you  have  made  your  water 
boil,  then  ptit  your  pixdding  into  your  pot.^ 

Yorhhire  Pudding  under  roast  Meatj  ike  GtjpsMs'  way. 

(No.  552.) 

This  pudding  is  an  especially  excellent  accompaniment  to 
a  mr4oin  of  beef, — ^loin  of  veal,— or  any  fat  and  juicy  joint. 

Six  table-spoonfids  of  flour,  three  eggs,  a  tea-spoonful  Of 
salt,  and  a  pint  of  milk,  so  as  to  make  a  middling  stiff  batter, 
a  little  stiffer  than  you  would  for  pancakes ;  beat  it  up  t^ll^ 
and  take  care  it  is  not  lumpy ;  put  a  dish  under  the  mealt,  and 
let  the  drippings  drop  into  it  till  it  is  quite  hot  and  well 
greased;  tnen  pour  in  the  batter; — when  the  upper  surface 
is  brown  and  set,  turn  it,  that  both  sides  may  be  broWn  alike : 
if  vou  wish  it  to  cut  firm,  and  the  pudding  an  inch  thick,  it 
will  take  two  hours  at  a  good  fire. 

N.B.  The  true  Yorkshire  pudding  Is  about  hsdf  an  itich 
thick  when  done ;  but  it  is  the  fasmon^  in  London  to  make 
them  full  twice  that  thickness. 

Plum  Puddinff.-^No.  553.) 

Suet,  chopped  fine,  six  ounces;  Malaga  raisins,  stoned, 
six  ounces ;  currants,  nicely  washed  and  picked,  eight  ounces ; 
bread-crumbs,  three  ounces;  flour,  three  ounces;  eggs,  three; 
sixth  of  a  nutmeg ;  Amall  blade  of  mace ;  same  quantity  of  cin- 
namon, pounded  as  fine  as  possible ;  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt ; 
half  a  pint  of  milk,  or  rather  less ;  sugar,  four  ounces :  to  which 
maybe  added,  candied  lemon,  one  ounce ;  citron,  half  an  ounce. 
Beat  the  eggs  and  spice  well  together;  mix  the  mflk  with 
them  by  degrees,  then  die  rest  of  the  ingredients ;  dip  a  fine 
close  Imen  cloth  into  boiling  water,  and  put  it  in  a  hair^tsieye ; 
flour  it  a  little,  and  tie  it  up  close ;  put  it  into  a  saucepan 
containing  six  quarts  of  boiling  water:  keep  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water  along  side  of  it,  and  fill  up  your  pot  as  it  wastes ; 
be  sure  to  keep  it  boiling  six  hours  at  least. 

My  Pudditig.-^No.  554.) 

Beat  up  the  yelks  and  whites  of  three  eggs ;  strain  them 

Ff8 


842  FCDDIHGS. 

through  a  sieve  (to  keep  out  the  tieddles),  and  graduaUy  add 
to  them  about  a  Quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk,—- stir  these  well  to- 
gether; rub  together  in  a  mortar  two  ounces  of  moist  sugar, 
and  as  much  grated  nutmeg  as  will  lie  on  a  sixpence* — stir 
these  into  the  eggs  and  milk ;  then  put  in  four  ounces  of  flour, 
and  beat  it  into  a  smooth  batter ;  by  degrees  stir  into  it  seven 
ounces  of  suet  (minced  as  fine  as  possible),  and  three  ounces 
of  Inread-crumbs ;  mix  all  thoroug^y  together  at  least  half 
an  hour  before  you  put  the  pudding  into  the  pot;  put  it  into 
an  earUienware  pudding-mould  that  you  have  well  buttered ; 
tie  a  puddinff^loth  over  it  very  t^^ht ;  put  it  into  boiling  water, 
and  boil  it  three  hours. 

Put  one  good  plum  into  it,  and  Moost-Aye  says,  you  may 
then  teU  the  economist  that  you  have  made  a  good  plum  pud- 
ding—without plums:  this  would  be  what  schoolboys  call 
'^  mile-stone  pudding,^  t.  e.  ^  a  mile  between  one  plum  and 
another." 

N.B.  Half  a  pound  of  Muscatel  raisins  cut  in  half,  and 
added  to  the  above,  will  make  a  most  admirable  plum  pud- 
ding :  a  little  grated  lemon-peel  may  be  added. 

(%«. — ^If  the  water  ceases  to  boil,  the  pudding  will  become 
heavy,  and  be  spoiled;  if  property  managed,  this  and  the 
following  will  be  as  fine  puddings  of  the  kind  as  art  can  pro- 
duce. 

Puddiuffs  are  best  when  mixed  an  hour  or  two  before  they 
are  boilea;  the  ingredients  bv  that  means  amalgamate,  and 
the  whole  becomes  richer  and  fuller  of  flavour,  especially  if 
the  various  articles  be  thoroughly  well  stirred  together. 

A  table-spoonful  of  treacle  will  give  it  a  rich  brown  colour. 
See  puddinfr  sauce,  No.  26^,  and  pudding  catchup,  No.  446. 

N.B.  This  pudding  maybe  baked  in  an  oven, or  under 
meat,  the  same  as  Yorksnire  puddins  (No.  &5'2) ;  make  it 
the  same,  only  add  half  a  pint  of  milk  more :  should  it  be 
above  an  inch  and  a  quarter  in  thickness,  it  will  take  full  two 
hours :  it  requires  careful  watching,  for  if  the  top  gets^burned, 
an  empyreumatic  flavour  wiU  pervade  the  whole  of  the  pud- 
ding. Or,  butter  some  tin  mince-pie  patty-pans,  or  saucers, 
and  fill  them  with  pudding,  and  set  them  m  a  Dutch  oven ; 
they  will  take  about  an  hour. 

Maigrt  Plum  Pudding. 

Simmer  half  a  pint  of  milk  with  two  blades  of  mace,  and 
a  roll  of  lemon-peel,  for  ten  minutes;  then  strain  it  into  a 
basin;  set  it  away  to  get  cold:  in  the  mean  time  beat  three 
eggs  in  a  b..sin  with  tm«e  ounces  of  loaf-sugar,  and  the  third 


PUDDINGS.  343 

of  a  nutmeg:  then  add  three  ounces  of  fk>ur;  beat  it  well 
together,  and  add  the  milk  by  degrees :  then  put  in  three 
ounces  of  fresh  butter  broken  into  small  pieces,  and  three 
ounces  of  bread-crumbs ;  three  ounces  of  currauits  washed 
and  picked  clean,  three  ounces  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped : 
stir  It  all  well  together.  Butter  a  mould ;  put  it  in,  ana  tie 
a  cloth  tight  over  it.  Boil  it  two  hours  and  a  half.  Serve 
it  up  with  melted  butter,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  brandy,  and 
a  little  loaf-sugar. 

A  Fat  Pudding. 

Break  ^vb  eggs  in  a  basin ;  beat  them  up  with  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  sugar  and  a  table-spoonful  of  flour;  beat  it  quite 
smooth;  then  put  to  it  a  pound  of  raisins,  and  a  pound  of 
suet ;  it  must  not  be  chopped  very  fine ;  butter  a  mould  well ; 

Eut  in  the  pudding;  tie  a  cloth  over  it  tight,  and  boil  it  five 
ours. 

N.B.  This  is  very  rich,  and  is  commonly  called  a  marrow 
pudding. 

PeoM  Pudding. — (No.  565.) 

Put  a  quart  of  split  pease  into  a  clean  cloth ;  do  not  tie 
them  up  too  close,  but  leave  a  little  room  for  them  to  swell ; 
put  Ihem  on  in  cold  water,  to  boil  slowly  till  they  are  tender : 
if  they  are  good  pease  they  will  be  boiled  enough  in  about 
two  hours  and  a  half;  rub  them  through  a  sieve  into  a  deep 
dish,  adding*  to  them  an  egg  or  two,  an  ounce  of  butter,  and 
some  pepper  and  salt ;  beat  them  well  together  for  about  ten 
minutes,  when  these  ingredients  are  well  incorporated  to- 
gether;  then  flour  the  cloth  well,  put  the  pudding  in,  and  tie 
it  up  as  tight  as  possible,  and  boil  it  an  hour  longer.  It  is 
as  good  with  boiled  beef  as  it  is  with  bofled  pork ;  and  why 
not  with  roasted  pork  1 

Ohs. — This  is  a  very  good  accompaniment  to  cold  pork  or 
cold  beef. 

N.B.  Stir  this  pudding  into  two  quarts  of  the  liquor  meat 
or  poultry  has  been  boiled  in ;  give  it  a  boil  up,  and  in  five 
minutes  it  will  make  excellent  extempore  pease  soup,  espe- 
cially if  the  pudding  has  been  boiled  in  the  same  pot  as  &ie 
meat  (see  No.  dl8,  &c.)  Season  it  with  pease  powder,  No. 
458. 

*  Tb  increaM  Uie  balk  and  diminish  the  expense  of  thiA  pudding,  Uie  economieil 
hottselceeper,  who  has  a  large  ftunily  to  feed,  may  now  add  two  pounds  of  potatoes 
that  have  been  boiled  and  weU  mashed.  To  many  this  miztore  is  more  agreeable 
than  pease  podding  alone.    See  abo  No.  107. 


344  mraufoff. 

Pimm  Bread  Pvddmg.-^o.  S5B.) 

Make  fire  ounces  of  bread-crumbs ;  put  fhem  in  a  basin ; 
poor  three  odarters  of  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  over  them ;  pat  a 
plate  oTer  me  top  to  keep  in  the  steam;  let  it  stand  twenty 
miniites,  then  beat  it  up  quite  smooth  with. two  ounces  of 
gtagBX  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  nutmeg.  Break  lour  ^sb  on  a 
plate,  leaving  out  one  white ;  beat  tnem  well,  and  add  them 
to  tiie  pnddii^.  Stir  it  all  well  tog^ether,  and  put  it  in  a  mould 
that  has  been  well  buttered  and  floured;  tie  a  cloth  over  iU 
and  boil  it  one  hour. 

Bread  and  buHer  Pmddaig.'-ijiku  657.) 

You  must  have  a  dish  that  will  hold  a  quart ;  wash  and 
pick  two  ounces  of  currants ;  strew  a  few  at  the  bottom  of 
the  fish ;  cut  about  four  layers  of  very  thin  bread  and  batter, 
and  between  each  layer  o(  bread  and  Imtter  strew  some  cur- 
rants ;  then  break  four  efffs  in  a  basin,  leaving  out  one  white ; 
heal  mem  weQ,  and  add  four  ounces  of  su^r  and  a  drachm 
of  nutmeg;  stir  it  well  together  with  a  pmt  of  new  milk; 
pour  it  over  about  ten  minutes  before  ypu  put  it  in  the  oven ;, 
it  will  take  three  quuters  of  an  hour  to  bake.     , 

Pameakei  and  jFWtterj.— (No.  558.) 

Break  three  eggs  in  a  basin;  beat  them  up  with  a  little 
nutmeg  and  salt ;  men  put  to  them  four  ounces  and  a  half  of 
flour,  and  a  Utde  milk ;  beat  it  of  a  smooth  batter ;  then  add 
by  degrees  as  mnch  milk  as  will  make  it  of  the  thickness  of 
good  cream :  the  frsring-pan  must  be  about  the  size  of  a  pod- 
ding plate,  and  very  clean,  w  they  will  stick ;  make  it  hot, 
and  to  each  pancake  put  in  a  bit  of  butter  about  as  big  as  a 
walnut :  when  it  is  melted,  pour  in  the  batter  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pan ;  make  them  the  thickness  of  half  a  crown ; 
fry  them  of  alight  biown  on  both  sides. 

The  above  wHl  do  for  apple  fritters,  by  adding  one  spoon- 
ful more  of  flour;  peel  your  apples,  and  cut  them  in  thick 
slices ;  take  out  the  core,  dip  them  in  the  batter,  and  fry  them 
m  hot  lard ;  put  them'  on  a  sieve  to  drain ;  dish  them  neatly, 
and  frate  some  loaf-sugar  over  them. 

Tansy  Pancakes. 

The  batter  for  the  preceding  mav  be  made  into  tansy  pan- 
cakes by  cuttmg  flne  a  handful  of  young  green  tansy,  and 
beating  it  into  the  batter.  It  gives  the  cSkes  a  pleasant  aro-- 
malic  flavour,  and  an  agreeabk,  mild  bitter  taste.  A« 


riroDiNos.  345 

No.  56(K 

Tke  follotiring  reeeiots  are  from  Mr.  Henry  Osb<nme»  dook 
to  Sir  Joseph  Banks,  the  late  president  of  the  Roysd  Society : 

S6ko  Sqwtrtt  Jknil  30, 1830. 
8ir»-^I  send  jrou  herewith  the  last  part  of  the  Coca's  Ora- 
cle. I  have  attentively  looked  over  each  receipt*  and  hope 
they  are  now  correct,  and  easy  to  be  understood.  If  you 
think  an^  need  further  explanation,  Bit  Joseph  has  desired 
me  to  wait  on  you  again.  I  also  send  the  receipts  for  my 
ten  puddings,  and  my  method  of  usin^  spring  fruit  and  gourds. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 

Henry  Osborne. 

BoUon  Apple  Pudding. 

Peel  one  dozen  and  a  half  of  good  apples;  take  out  the 
cotes,  cut  them  small,  put  into  k  stew-pan  that  will  just  hold 
them,  with  a  little  water,  a  little  cinnamon,  two  cloves,  and 
the  peel  of  a  lemon ;  stew  over  a  slow  fire  till  quite  soft,  then 
sweeten  with  moist  sugar,  and  pass  it  tluroq^h  a  hair  sieve; 
add  to  it  the  yelks  of  four  eggs  and  one  white,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  good  butter,  half  a  nutmeg,  the  peel  oi  a  lemon 
gnUed,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon:  beat  m  well  together; 
line  the  inside  of  a  pie-di^h  with  good  puff  paste ;  put  in  the 
pudding,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

Spring  Fndt  Pudding. 

Peel,  and  well  wash  four  dozen  sticks  of  rhid)arb :  put  into 
a  stew-pan  with  the  pudding  a  lemon,  a  little  cinnamon,  and 
as  mucn  moist  sugar  as  will  make  it  quite  sweet ;  set  it  over 
a  fire,  and  reduce  it  to  a  marmalade ;  pass  through  a  hair- 
aieve,  and  proceed  as  directed  for  the  Boston  pudding,  leaving 
out  the  lemon-juice,  as  the  ihubarb  will  be  found  sufficiently 
acid  of  itself. 

Jiottingham  Pudding* 

Peel  six  good  apples ;  take  out  the  core  with  the  point  of  a 
small  knife,  or  an  a{^e  corer,  if  you  have  one ;  but  be  sure 
to  leave  the  apples  whole;  fill  up  whero  you  took  the  c<Mre 
from  with  su^ar ;  place  them  in  a  pie-dish,  and  pour  over 
them  a  nice  lijght  batter,  prepared  as  for  batter  puading,  and 
bake  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 


346  TVDDIKG6. 

Batter  Pudding. 

Take  six  oiinees  offine  flour,  a  little  salt,  and  three  eggs ; 
beat  up  weU  with  a  little  milk,  added  by  degrees  till  the  bat- 
ter is  quite  smooth ;  make  it  the  thickness  of  cream ;  put 
into  a  buttered  pie-dish»  and  bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour ; 
or  into  a  buttered  and  floured  basin,  tied  over  tight  with  a 
rloth :  boil  one  and  a  half  hour,  or  two  hours. 

Ntwmarhet  Pudding. 

Put  on  to  boil  a  pint  of  good  milk,  with  half  a  lemon-peel, 
a  little  cinnamon,  and  a  bay-leaf;  boil  gently  for  five  or  ten 
minutes ;  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar ;  break  the  yelks  of  five, 
and  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  into  a  basin ;  beat  them  well, 
and  add  the  milk :  beat  all  well  together,  and  strain  through 
a  fine  hair-sieve,  or  tamis :  have  some  bread  and  butter  cut 
veiy  thin ;  lay  a  layer  of  it  in  a  pie-dish,  and  then  a  layer  of 
eurrants,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  nearly  full ;  then  pour  the 
custard  over  it,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

NmccatU^  or  Cabinet  Pudding. 

Butter  a  half  melon  mould,  or  quart  basin,  and  stick  all 
round  with  dried  cherries,  or  fine  raisins,  and  fill  up  with 
bread  and  butter,  &c.  as  in  the  above ;  and  steam  it  an  hour 
and  a  half. 

Flermicdli  Pudding. 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  with  lemon-peel  and  cinnamon; 
sweeten  with  loaf-sugar;  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli ;  boil  ten  minutes  ;^  then  put 
in  the  yelks  of  five,  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs ;  mix  well 
together,  and  steam  it  one  hour  and  a  quarter :  the  same  may 
be  baked  half  an  hour. 

Bread  Pudding. 

Make  a  pint  of  bread-crumbs ;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with 
as  much  milk  as  will  cover  them,  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  a  little 
nutmeg  grated,  and  a  small  piece  of  cinnamon;  boil  about 
ten  nuRUtes;  sweeten  with  powdered  loaf-sugar;  take  out 
the  cinnamon,  and  put  in  four  eggs ;  beat  all  well  togettier, 
and  baJce  half  an  hour,  or  boil  rather  more  than  an  hour. 


HISCEIiLANEOtS.  347 

Cwtard  Pudding. 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  cream ; 
thicken  with  flour  and  water  made  perfectly  smooth,  till  it  is 
stiff  enough  to  bear  an.  egg  on  it;  break  in  the  yelks  of  five 
eggs;  sweeten  with  powdered  loaf-sugar;  grate  in  a  little 
nutmeg  and  the  peel  of  a  lemon :  add  half  a  glass  of  good 
brandy ;  then  wlup  the  whites  of  the  five  eegs  till  quite  stiff, 
and  mix  gently  aU  together:  line  a  pie-dish  with  good  puff 
paste,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

N.B.  Ground  rice,  potato  fiour,  panada,  and  all  puddings 
made  from  powders,  are,  or  maybe,  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Boiled  Guards, 

Put  a  quart  of  new  milk  into  a  stew-pan,  with  the  peel  of  a. 
lemon  cut  very  thin,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  a  bay  or  laurel-leaf, 
and  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon ;  set  it  over  a  quick  fire,  but 
be  careful  it  does  not  boil  over :  when  it  boils,  set  it  beside 
the  fire,  and  sinmier  ten  minutes ;  break  the  yelks  of  eight, 
and  the  whites  of  four  eggs  into  a  basin;  beat  them  we^; 
then  pour  in  the  milk  a  little  at  a  time,  stirrin|;  it  as  quick 
as  possible  to  {)revent  the  eggs  curdling ;  set  it  on  the  fire 
again,  and  stir  it  well  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  let  it  have  just 
one  boil;  pass  it  through  a  tamis,  or  fine  sieve :  when  cold, 
add  a  little  brandy,  or  white  wine,  as  may  be  most  agreeable 
to  the  eater's  palate.    Serve  up  in  glasses,  or  cups. 

Custards  for  bakingare  prepared  as  above,  passed  through 
a  fine  sieve ;  put  them  into  cups ;  ^te  a  little  nutmeg  over 
each :  bake  them  about  15  or  30  mmutes. 

TO  DRESS   SPBINO  FBUIT. 

luring  FruU  Sotip. 

Peel  and  well  wash  four  dozen  sticks  of  rhubarb ;  "blanch  it 
in  water  three  or  four  minutes;  drain  it  cm  a  siev€,  and  put 
it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  two  onions  sliced,  a  carrot,  am  oimce 
of  lean  ham,  and  a  good  bit  of  butter ;  let  it  stew  ffently  over 
a  slow  &re  till  tender;  then  put  in  two  quarts  of  good  con' 
somm^9  to  which  add  two  or  three  ounces  of  bread-crumbs ; 
boil  about  fifteen  minutes ;  skim  off  all  the  fat ;  season  with 
salt  and  Cayenne  pepper;  pass  it  through  a  tamis,  and  serve 
up  with  fried  bread. 

I^imng  Fruit  Pudding, 
Clean  as  above  three  or  four  dozen  sticks  of  rhubarb;  put 


34t  mscsuLAXfioim. 

it  in  a  8tew-pan«  with  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  a  bit  of  cinnasmon, 
two  eloYes,  and  as  much  moist  sugar  as  will  sweeten  it ;  set 
it  ofer  a  llre^  and  reduce  it  to  a  marmalade;  pass  it  through, 
a  Inir-sieve ;  then  add  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  and  half  a  nutnieg' 
mtedy  a  quarter  of  a  fjound  of  good  butter,  and  the  yettoaof 
mur  eggs  and  one  white,  and  mix  all  well  together;  line  a 
pieHdish,  that  will  just  contain  it,  with  good  puff  paste;  put 
the  mixture  in,  and  bake  it  half  an  hour. 

Sj^rmg  FntU-^  M$A  Gooseberry  &«fce  fir  Mads^rd^  ^c. 

Make  a  marmalade  of  three  dozen  sticks  of  rhubarb,  sweet- 
ened with  moist  simr;  pass  it  through  a  hair-siev^,  zs^ 
seire  up  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Spring  Fruit  Tari. 

Prepaie  rhubarb  as  above :  cut  it  into  small  pieces  into  a 
tart-dii^;  sweeten  with  loaf-sugar  pounded ;  cover  it  with  a 
good  short  crust  i)aste;  sift  a  little  sugar  over  the  top»  and 
bakehalf  an  hour  in  a  rather  hot  oven:  serve  upcold. 

Spring  Oreanif  er  mo{k  Cho9therry  FooL 

Prepare  a  marmalade  as  directed  for  the  pudding :  to  which 
add  a  pint  of  good  tluck  cream ;  serve  up  in  glasses,  or  in  a 
deep  oish*  If  wanted  in  a  shape,  dissolve  two  ounces  of 
isinglass  in  a  little  water;  stram  it  through  a  tamis,  and 
when  nearly  cold  put  it  to  the  cream;  pour  it  into  a  jelly 
mould,  and  when  set,  turn  out  into  a  dish,  and  serve  up  plain. 

Spring  Fruit  Sherbet, 

Boil  six  or  eight  sticks  of  rhidmrb  (quite  cleaxl)  ten 
minutes  in  a  quart  of  water;  strain  the  hqumr  through  a 
tamis  into  a  jug,  with  the  peel  of  a  lemon  cut  very  thin,  and 
two  t^le-spoonfuls  of  clarified  si^^ar ;  let  it  stand  five  or  eix 
hours,  and  it  is  fit  to  drink* 

Chmrd$  (now  called  vegetable  Marr<m)  stewed. 

Take  off  all  the  skin  of  six  or  eight  gourds,  put  them  into  a 
stew-pan,  with  water,  salt,  lemon-juice,  and  a  bit  of  butter^ 
or  fat  bacon,  and  let  them  stew  gently  till  quite  tender,  and 
serve  up  with  a  rich  Dutch  sauce,  or  any  other  sauce  yau 
please  that  is  piquaiUe. 


Gowrd  Soupf 

ShaM  be  made  of  Adl-grown  gourdt,  but  uot  those  that 
have  hard  skiiiB;  slice  three  or  four,  and  put  them  in  a  atew-* 
pai,  with  two  or  tluree  onions,  and  a  good  bit  of  butter  |  set 
them  over  a  slow  lire  till  quite  tender  (be  earefnl  not  to  let 
them  bum) ;  then  add  two  ounces  of  crust  of  bread,  and  two 
quarts  of  sood  etmiommi;  season  with  salt  and  Cayenne 
pepper:  boil  t^minute%  or  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  skimoffall 
the  fttt,  and  pass  it  through  a  tamis;  then  make  it  quite  hot^ 
and  serve  up  with  fried  bread. 

FHed  €hurds» 

Cut  five  or  six  gourds  in  quarters ;  take  off  the  skin  add 
pulp;  stew  them  in  the  same  manner  as  for  table:  when 
dom,  drain  them  quite  dry;  beat  up  an  egg^  and  dip  the 
gourds  in  it,  and  cover  them  well  over  with  bread-cnindMi; 
make  some  hog^s-lard  hot,  and  fry  them  a  nice  light  cc^ur; 
throw  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  them,  and  serve  ^p 
quite  dry. 

Awlker  Way, 

Take  six  or  eight  small  gourds,  as  near  of  a  size  as  pos- 
sible ;  slice  them  with  a  cucumber-slice ;  dry  them  in  a  cloth^ 
and  then  fry  them  in  very  hot  lard;  throw  over  a  little  pep- 
per and  sal^  and  serve  up  on  a  napkin.  Great  attention  is 
requisite  to  do  these  well;  if  the  fat  is  quite  hot  they  aro  done 
in  a  minute,  and  will  soon  spoil ;  if  not  hot  enough,  they  unll 
eat  greasy  and  tough. 

To  make  Beefl  MtUUnh  or  Veal  Tea.— (No.  563.) 

Cut  a  pound  of  lean  gravy  meat  into  thin  slices ;  put  it  into 
a  quart  and  half  a  pint  of  cold  water ;  set  it  over  a  very  gentle 
fircy  where  it  will  become  gradually  warm;  when  the  scum 
rises,  let  it  cmittnue  simmering  gently  for  about  an  hour; 
then  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve  or  a  napkin ;  let  it  stand  ten 
minutes  to  settle,  and  then  pour  off  the  clear  tea. 

N.B.  An  onion,  and  a  few  grains  of  black  pepper,  are 
sometimes  added. 

If  the  meat  is  boiled  till  it  is  thoroughly  tender,  you  may 
mince  it  arid  pound  it  as  dirseted  in  No.  503,  and  make  potted 
oecf. 

To  make  half  a  pint  of  beef  tea  in  ^ve  minutes  for  three 
halfpence,  see  No.  953. 


550 

Mutton  Broth  fir  ike  SidL^No.  564.) 

Have  a  pound  and  a  half  of  a  neck  or  loin  of  mutton ;  take 
off  the  skin  and  the  fat,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan;  cover  it 
with  cold  water,  (it  will  take  about  a  quart  to  a  pound  of 
meat,)  let  it  simmer  yenr  gfently,  and  skim  it  well ;  cover  it 
up,  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  where  it  may  stand  gentiy 
stewinff  for  about  an  hour;  then  strain  it  off.  It  should  be 
allowed  to  become  cold,  when  all  the  greasy  particles  will 
iloat  on  the  surface,  and  becoming  hard,  can  be  easily  takea 
off,  and  the  settlings  will  remain  at  the  bottom. 

See  also  Nos.  490  and  352. 

N.B.  We  direct  the  meat  to  be  done  no  more  than  just 
sufficienUv  to  be  eaten ;  so  a  sick  man  may  have  plenty  of 
good  brotn  for  nothing ;  as  by  this  manner  of  producing  it, 
the  meat  furnishes  also  a  good  family  meal. 

Oht* — This  is  an  inoffensive  nourishment  for  sick  persons, 
and  the  only  mutton  broth  that  should  be  ffiven  to  convales- 
cents, whose  constitutions  require  replenishing  with  restora- 
tive aliment  of  easy  digestion.  The  common  way  of  making 
it  with  roots,  onions,  sweet  herbs,  &c.  &c.  is  too  strong  for 
weak  stomachs.  Plain  broth  will  agree  with  a  delicate  sto- 
mach, when  the  least  addition  of  other  ingredients  would 
immediately  offend  it. 

For  the  various  ways  of  flavouring  broth,  see  No.  537. 

Few  know  how  much  good  may  be  done  by  such  broth, 
taken  in  sufficient  quantity  at  the  beginning  and  decline  of 
bowel  complaints  and  fevers ;  half  a  pint  taken  at  a  time. 
See  the  last  two  pages  of  the  7th  chapter  of  the  Rudiments 
of  Cookery. 

Barley  rTo/er.*— (No.  565.) 

Take  a  couple  of  ounces  of  pearl  barley*  wash  it  clean  with 
eold  water,  put  it  into  half  a  pint  of  boiung  water,  and  let  it 
boil  for  five  minutes ;  pour  off  this  water,  and  add  to  it  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water :  boil  it  to  two  pints,  and  strain  it. 

The  above  is  simple  bailey  water.  To  a  quart  of  this  is 
frequently  added 

Two  ounces  of  figs,  sliced ; 

The  same  of  raisins,  stoned ; 

Half  an  ounce  of  liquorice,  sliced  and  bruised ; 

And  a  pint  of  water. 

Boil  it  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  quart,  and  strain. 

06«. — ^These  drinks  are  intended  to  assuage  thirst  in  ardent 

*  Ground  bailey,  or  bariey-mea),  is  sold  in  ttiia  city ;  with  wUcb  btu-l»-irat«i 
i;iuelarapaiiadaiD»yberea4UJyiDa4e,for.UiQiAcJc,otlbr0Oiipa.  A. 


ltasC£LIiANEOU8.  35 1 

fevers  and  inflammatory  disorders,  for  which  plenty  of  mild 
diluting:  liquor  is  one  of  the  principal  remedies :  and  if  not 
suggested  by  the  medical  attendant,  is  frequently  demanded 
by  honest  instinct,  in  terms  too  plain  to  be  misunderstood : 
Qie  stomach  S3nnpathizes  with  every  fibre  of  the  human 
frame,  and  no  part  of  it  can  be  distressed  without  in  some 
degree  offending  the  stomach :  therefore  it  is  of  the  utmost 
importance  to  sooth  this  grand  organ,  by  rendering  every 
thing  we  ofler  to  it  as  elegant  and  a^eeable  as  the  nature 
of  the  case  will  admit  of :  me  barley  £ink  prepared  accord- 
ing to  tiie  second  receipt,  will  be  received  with  pleasure  by 
the  most  delicate  palate. 

W^.— (No.  566.) 

Make  a  pint  of  milk  boil ;  put  to  it  a  glass  or  two  of  white 
wine ;  put  it  on  the  fire  till  it  just  boils  again ;  then  set  it  on 
one  side  till  the  curd  has  settled;  pour  off  the  clear  whey,, 
and  sweeten  it  as  you  like. 

Cider  is  often  substituted  for  wine,  or  half  the  quantity  of 
vinegar  that  we  have  ordered  wine. 

0£jr.— When  there  is  no  fire  in  the  sick  room,  this  may  be 
put  hot  into  a  bottle,  and  laid  between  the  bed  and  mattress ; 
it  will  keep  warm  several  hours. 

Toothache  and  atUi-rheumatic  Emhrocation.'^NQ*  567.) 

In  no  branch  of  the  practice  of  physic  is  there  more  dan-* 
gerous  quackery,  than  in  the  dental  department. 

To  all  people  ^e  toothache  is  an  intolerable  torment ;  not 
evena philosopher  can  endure  it  patiently ;  what  an  over- 
coming agony  then  must  it  be  to  a  grand  gourmand !  besides 
the  mortification  of  being  deprived  of  the  means  of  enjoying 
that  consolation  which  he  looks  to  as  the  grand  solace  for  aU 
sublunary  cares. 

When  this  affliction  befalls  him,  we  recommend  the  follow- 
ing specific  for  it  ^— 

^  Sal  volatile,  three  parts. 
Laudanum,  one  part. 

Mix,  and  rub  the  part  affected  frequently,  or  if  the  tooth 
which  aches  be  hollow,  drop  some  of  this  on  a  bit  of  cotton, 
and  put  it  into  the  tooth.  For  a  general  faceache,  or  sore 
throat,  moisten  a  bit  of  flannel  with  it,  and  put  it  at  night  to 
the  part  affected. 


35f  lOKWUAIIWKTi. 

Stmaekk  Tmetmn-^tio*  669. 

Penman  bait,  bttiiMd,  one  ounce  and  a  half. 

Orantfe-peeU      do.       one  ounce. 

Bran^r,  or  proof  apirit,  one  pint. 

Let  these  ingredients  steep  for  ten  days,  shaking  the  bottle 
ereiy  daf ;  let  it  remain  quiet  two  days,  and  then  decant  the 
clear  liquor. 

Dose—A  teaFipoonfttl  in  a  wineglass  of  water,  twice  a  day, 
when  you  feel  languid,  t.  e.  when  the  stomach  is  empty, 
about  an  hour  before  diimer,  and  in  the  evening. 

This  agreeable  aromatic  tonic  is  an  effective  help  to  con- 
coction ;  and  we  are  under  personal  obligations  to  it,  for  ite* 
qoenUy  restoring  our  stomach  to  good  temper,  and  procuring 
us  good  appetite  and  good  digestion. 

In  low  nervous  affections  arising  from  a  languid  circula- 
tion, and  when  the  stomach  is  in  a  state  of  debility  nom 
age,  intemperance,  or  other  causes,  this  is  a  most  acceptaM^ 
rest4»alive« 

N.B.  Tea  made  with  dried  and  bruised  Seville  orange«peel^ 
in  the  same  way  as  common  tea,  and  drank  with  milk  and 
sugar,  has  been  taken  by  nervous  and  dyspeptic  persons  with 
great  benefit. 

Sucking  a  bit  of  dried  orange-peel  about  an  hour  before 
dinner,  unien  the  stomach  is  empty,  is  very  grateful  and 
strengthening  to  it. 

Paregoric  EUxir. — (No.  ,670.) 

A  drachm  of  purified  opium,  same  of  flowers  of  beiuamin, 
same  of  oil  of  aniseed,  caiiH>hor,  two  scruples ;  steep  all  in  a 
pint  of  brandy  or  inroof  spirit ;  let  it  stand  ten  days,  occasion- 
ally shaking  it  up:  strain. 

A  tea-spoonful  in  half  a  pint  of  White  wine  whey  (No* 
563),  tewahdiddle  (No.  467),  or  gruel  (No.  573),  taken  the 
last  thing  at  night,  is  an  agreeable  and  effectual  medicine  for 
couffhs  and  colds.  It  is  sdso  excellent  for  children  who  have 
the  hoi^ing-cough,  in  doses  of  from  five  to  twenty  drops  in 
a  little  water,  or  on  a  little  bit  of  sugar. 

Dr.  KUchinet^s  Receipt  to  make  6nfd.-^(No.  573.) 

Ask  those  who  are  to  eat  it,  if  they  like  it  thick  or  thin  ;  if 
the  latter,  mix  well  together  by  degrees,  in  a  pint  basin,  one 
table-spoonful  of  oatmeal,  with  three  of  cold  water;  if  the 
former,  use  two  spoonluls. 

Have  ready  in  a  stew-pan»  a  pint  of  boiling  water  or  milk; 


363 

posrilttB  hy  degrees  to  the  Mtmeal  yen  have  niaced;  r^tttni 
itiBtolheBtew-piiiL;  fetit>oii1iheiire,uid  letitboillorfiTe 
autintes ;  stinring  it  all  the  time  to  preveol  the  oatmeal  firan 
bominff  at  the  bottom  of  tiie  stew-pan ;  akim  and  strain  it 
tfarougn  a  hair-sieve. 

dd.  To  convert  this  into  caudle,  add  a  little  ale,  wine,  or 
brandy,  with  sugar ;  and  if  the  bowels  axe  disovdered,  a  little 
nutmeg  or  ginger,  grated. 

Ob§.  Gruel  maybe  made  with  broth  (No.  49<K  <»  No.  d52, 
or  No.  564),  instead  of  water;  (to  miuce  erondUf  see  No^ 
^5*) ;  and  may  be  flavoured  with  sweet  herbs,  soup  roots, 
and  savoury  spaces,  by  boiling  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  the 
water  yon  are  going  to  make  Uie  gmel  with;  or  aest  (No. 
SfiS),  pease  powder  (No.  456),  or  dried  mint,  mttshroom 
catchup  (No.  409) ;  or  a  few  grains  of  curry  powder  (No. 
455) ;  or  savoury  ragodt  powder  (No.  457) ;  or  Cayenne  (No. 
404) ;  or  celery-seed  bmised,  or  soup  faeib  powder  (No.  459) ; 
or  an  onion  minced  very  fine  and  bruised  in  with  the  oat- 
meal ;  or  a  little  eschalot  wine  (No.  402) ;  or  essence  of 
celer^  (Nos.  409,  413,  417,  or  No.  430),  &c. 

Plain  gruel,  such  as  is  directed  in  the  first  part  of  this 
receipt,  is  one  of  ihe  best  breakfasts  and  suppers  that  we  can 
recommend  to  the  rational  epicure;  is  the  most  comforting 
soother  of  an  irritable  stomach  that  we  know ;  and  particu- 
larly acceptable  to  it  after  a  hard  day's  work  of  intemperate 
feasting :  when  the  addition  of  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a 
tea-spoonful  of  Epsom  salt,  will  give  it  an  aperient  qualit]^^, 
whieh  will  assist  the  principal  viseera  to  get  rid  <n  tiieir 
buiden. 

^  Water  ^[nieV  says  Tryon  in  his  Obs.  ob  Health,  l^no. 
1688,  p.  48,  is  ^  the  king  of  spoon  meats,''  and  ^tiie  queen  of 
soopSy"  and  gratifies  nature  beyond  all  others.  i 

la  the  "  Art  of  Thriving,"  1697,  p.  8,  are  directions  for  pre- 
paiing  fourscore  noble  and  wholesome  dishes,  vspon  most  of 
which  a  man  may  live  excellently  well  for  two-pence  a  day ; 
the  author's  Obs,  on  water  gruel  is,  that  **  essence  of  oatmeal 
makes  a. noble  and  exhilarating  meal!" 

Dr.  Franklin's  favourite  breakfast  was  a  good  basin  of 
warm  gruel,  in  which  there  was  a  small  slice  of  butter,  with 
toasted  bread  and  nutmeg;  the  expense  of  this  he  reckoned 
at  three  halfpence. 

Scotch  Bufg-oo.— (No.  672*.) 

^  This  humble  dish  of  our  northern  brethren  forms  no  con- 
temptible artide  of  food.    It  possesses  the  grand  qus^ties  of 

Gg2 


354  macBLUkHxouB. 

flaliibriiy,  pteaflantnefls,  and  cheapneBS.    It  is,  in  faet,  a  sort 
of  oatmeal  hasty  paddinff  without  milk;  much  used  by  those 

gfttterns  of  combined  inmistry,  frugality,  and  temperance,  the 
cottish  peasantry;  and  this,  among  other  examples  of  the 
economical  Scotch,  is  well  worthy  of  being  occasionally 
adc^yied  by  all  who  have  large  families  and  small  incomes.'^ 

It  is  made  in  the  following  easy  and  expeditious  man- 
ner.— 

*^  To  a  quart  of  oatmeal  add  gradually  two  quarts  of  water, 
so  that  the  whole  may  smootluy  mix :  then  stirring  it  con- 
tinually over  the  fire,  boil  it  together  for  a  Quarter  of  an  hour ; 
after  which,  take  it  np»  and  stir  in  a  little  salt  and  butter,  with 
or  without  pepper.  This  quantity  will  serve  a  family  of  five 
or  six  persons  for  a  moderate  meal.^— Oddy's  Family  Re- 
ceipt Book,  p.  304. 

Anchovy  Toast.— {No.  573.) 

Bone  and  wash  the  anchovies,  pound  them  in  a  mortar 
with  a  little  fresh  butter;  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  and 
spread  them  on  a  toast,  see  Nos.  434  and  435,  and  No.  355. 

Ob$>  You  may  add,  while  pounding  the  anchovies,  a  little 
made  mustard  and  curry  powder  (No.  455)  or  a  few  grains 
of  Cayenne,  or  a  little  mace  or  other  spice.  It  may  be  made 
still  more  savoury,  by  frying  the  toast  in  clarified  butter. 

DeoOed  Bucwl,— (No.  574.) 

Is  the  above  composition  spread  on  a  biscuit  warmed 
before  the  fire  in  a  Dutch  oven,  with  a  sufiicient  quantity  of 
salt  and  savoury  spice  (No.  457),  zest  (No.  355),  curry  pow- 
der (No.  455),  or  Cayenne  pepper  sprinkled  over  it. 

Om.  This  ne  plus  uUra  of  high  spiced  relishes,  and  No. 
538,  freqnentl^r  make  their  appearance  at  tavern  dinners, 
when  the  votaries  of  Bacchus  are  determined  to  vie  with  eadi 
other  in  sacrificing  to  the  joUy  god. 


BiARKETING  TABLES, 

Slmoing  the  seatont  when  Meat,  Poultry,  and  Vcoktablks, 

are  Bsst  and  Cheafest. 


MEAT. 

13 

ft 

III 

BEEF. 

TBE  HIND  aUARTEB. 

lb.   «z. 
13     0 

20     0 

11     0 

13  12 

U     0 

14  4 

8     4 

S     0 

lb. 

1 

4 

1 

a 
1 

1 

0 

s 

ox. 

8 

0 
4 

8 

8 
13 

10 

4 

perlb. 
1.  SirJotn ...0   9 

Roasted  (No.  19). 
S  Ste&k  to  Broil  (No.  94),  to 
\     Stew  (Nos.  500  and  601). 
Boiled  (No.  8). 
(  Ditto  (No.  7),  or  Savoury 
{     Salted  Beef  (No.  496). 
For  Alamode  Beef  (No.  SOS). 
Generally  Baked  or  Salted. 

Salted. 

Ditto. 

)  Soup  of  (No.  193),  Stewad 
i     (No.  483) 

aXJARTER. 

)  Roasted  (No.  90),  Boned 

)andRoUed(No.21). 

Ditto. 

For  making  Gravy. 

For  Steaks  or  Soup. 

(  For  Stewing  (No.  494),  or 
<     Haricot    (No.  495),-K)r 
f     Salted. 

( PrindpaUy  used  for  Beef 
{     Sausages. 

(Excellent  Scotcli  Barley 
\    Broth    (Na  204),    and 
(     Stewed  (Na493). 
5  Soap  of  (No.  239),  Stewed, 

(No.  907):  and 
Do.  (No.  940),  do.  (No. 008.) 
iBoUod  (No.18*),  JeUyof 
)  (No.l9B),8oup(No240«). 

2.  RumD*.... 0    9 

3.  Edge-Bone 0   6 

4.  Buttock,  or  Round  0   7 

5.  Mouae  ditto. 0    6 

-  6.  Veiny  Piece 0    7 

7.  Thick  Flask.....  0    6 

8.  Thin  ditto. 0    6^ 

9.  jTeB. 0    5U 

THE  FORE 

perlb. 

10.  ForeRib,6RilM..O   9 

11.  Middle  do.,  3  do...  0   7 

12.  Chuck  do.,  9  da. .  0   5 

13.  Shoulder,  or  Leg  In   a 

of  Mutton  Piece  r   * 

14.  Brisket... ....••••  0    6 

15.  Ckid^..... 0    44 

16.Neek,orSticking|Q    3^^ 
17   Shin.. 0    SI 

1ft.  TheBead 

ThA  Tril ••«•••••••••»• 

TheHefeto 

The  Noi.  refer  to  the  receipts  for  dressing. 


566 


MAMMMTUXa  TABLES. 


MEAT. 


MUTTON. 


9   0 
S   0 


1     0 
0    10 


1.  Lee. 

8.  Lab,  ben  end 
3.  Do^ckiiBipciid 


MTtt. 

.'.!!>  0   « 


4*  Neck}  bMt  Mid* 


8 


0    7 


9w  Do.,eer«geDd..->*  0   5 

Cflhovlder. •   7 

7.  Brawt 0   5 

Bead. 

TlwCUiie,ttrUM) 
Buddie,  twoLoina, 
Tke  Eamieh  k  a  y  •  • 
Leg,  and  |iatt  of) 
ttaLota J 


Boiled  (No.  l),ot 

(No.94).  I 

Da  (No.  10  Routed  (So.  i 

9B).GhoiN. 
Do.  (No.  9,)  fioul»d(No. 
99),  IilahStew  (Na  48S), 
HvioDt  (No.  489),  Stew- 
od(No.480). 
_'o  make  Bmtii  (No.  194). 
Roaared  (No.  87). 
Grilled  (0*«.  to  NOk  38^.^ 
RrMli. 


l(No.31),V6iiifloiil. 

fled  (No.  33). 


VEAL. 


9trtb» 

L  Leto,  beet  end Oil 

8:  Do.,  chnnqi  end. . .  0  11 

S.flllec 1   1 

4.  Knuckle, Hind.....  0  7 
TiwwltoleLeg....  0  10| 

5.  Neck,  beat  end.....  0  11 
9l  Do.,  accag  end 0   8 

Tbe^holeNeck..  0   9| 
7.  Blade  Roae 0  10 

a  Breut,lMatend...  0  11 

9.  I>6k,  brlaket end...  0  10 

10.  Knaekle,Fora.....  0   7 
Tbe  bwid,  with  tbe  airin 

on 

Da,  aUnned 

Catleta. « 


j  Roasted  (No.  35). 
Do  do. 

Roeated  (No.  34),  to  make 

Veal  Olivea  (No.  518),  ' 

ScolohColIopa  (No.  517*). 
To  RafoOt  (No.  588),  to 

Stew  (No.  583),  Soup  of 

(Nal93). 

Roaated(No.37). 

Do.         do. 


1  Stewed  (No.  515) ;  to  Ra- 
gout (No.  517),  to  Curry 


i 


(No.  4SI72. 
(No. 


Stewed  (No.  515) ;  to  Ra- 
ioOt  (No.  517). 
lame  aa  Rind  KnuMde. 
4  Boiled,  plain  (No.  10),  ID 
i  Ha8h(Noa.l0aiidS»). 

Pried  (No.  90),  BHHMd. 
(1^0.581). 


lURXSTiive  Ti.nu». 


367 


tuc  h}I6|oiiis  mhiiO)  we  owe  pren  ine  pni|Kniioivor vviiv  lu  Mem,  ■  uie  mnv 
not  betaK  wiif  bed  till  eootod,  by  wbidi,  of  ooune,  to  welgbt  ww  eoariderabiy 

These  propontane  diffir  in  alouwt  vnry  anima],— and  fkom  Uie  diftntt  muumt 
in  wliieh  they  are  cut 

Thoee  wlio  pay  the  bigbeM,  do  not  always  pay  the  dsArMt  pde*.  la  ihct,  the 
beat  meat  la  the  dUape^;  and  tboae  who  treat  a  tradeamaB  Ubdally,  have  a  mncb 
batter  chanee  of  beinji;  well  served,  than  those  who  are  fiir  ever  bargaining  for  iba 
market  penny.  In  dividing  the  Joints,  there  is  always  an  oppoctnniQr  of  apportlQift> 
iig  the  bones,  ftt,  flaps,  dec.,  so  as  to  make  ap  a  variation  of  mudi  moia  than  t 
penny  per  pound  In  ukmr  pieces ;  and  a  butcher  will  be  lwn>7  to  give  the  turn  of  hto 
k^fe  in  fitvonr  of  that  customer  who  cheerfully  pays  the  fair  price  of  die  artlel*  he 
pttrchases :— have  those  who  are  unwilling  to  do  so  any  reaaon  to  complain  1— tev« 
they  not  invited  such  ooodoct? 

The  qumlitif  of  butcher's  meat,  varies  quite  as  much  as  the  prtee  of  It.  according 
to  its  age,liow  it  has  been  fed,  and  especially  bow  it  has  been  treated  the  week 
before  it  nas  been  killed. 

The  following  statements  were  sent  to  us  by  a  very  lespectaMe  tradesman  :— 

Beef  b  kest  and  ckMpeat  from  Mldiaehnas  to  Midsummer.  The  price,  per  pouiid« 
now  varies  fiom  4d.  to  1«. 

Yeal  is  *m(  from  Hatch  to  July.  The  price  varies  aeooiding  to  the  season  Md 
the  supply ;  and  the  quality  dilfiets  so  much,  that  the  same  jotaitB  now  sell  from  9d. 
to  lid.  per  pound. 

lUUitton  is  kett  fiom  Christmas  to  Midrommer ;  thediflbrenoe  in  price  between  the 
worst  and  the  best,  Is  now  flrom  5i.  to  0d.  per  pound. 
'  Grass  lamb  i0  tot  fiom  Easter  to  Juns;  iwuse  iamb  from  Cbristmaa  to  Jtint. 


POULTRY. 


Poultrf. 


Oliickena...M  .....m 
Poulards,  with 
Fowls. 


Capons 

Green  Geese.... 

Geese 

Turkey  poults.. 

Turkeys 

Ducklhigs......... 

Ducks 


Wild  ducks. 


Widgeons 

Teal 

Plovers............ 

Larks 

Wheatears 

WUd  pigeons.. 
Tame    do. 


Com§  into  Season. 


i Spring  chickens. 
April.. 
arch 

i  Dearest  In  April, 
(     May,  and  June. 

Largestat  Christmas 

March 

September 

April 

September 

March.... • 

June 

September 


November 
July. 


•••■ •#•••••••••• 


C&ntinue. 


To  be  had  all  the  I 
year., C 

Till  June. 

To  be  had  all  the  > 
year...................  ( 

Ditto 

Till  Sepiiember....*M* 

February 

—  Jnne.......".*..'»> 

— —  March. ~. 

— —  May 

~~~"  February.'.M..... 

TiU  ditto 


TiU  March 

And  during  August. 
Till  September.... 


CkMpMf. 


November; 

December. 

November. 

iOoiober  mid 
(November. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 
December: 
but  the  flights 
areuncer- 
toia. 


Ditto. 
Angost 


3M 


MABSSnue  TABUBI. 


M^ 

Om^i^Seu.^ 

OmfMiin 

a.,^ 

T^BS  lalitoi 

AUtbeyMr 

TIU  Febniafy. 

All  tlw9«ur. 

NoveiBber. 

WiU      do 

Jone 

IfSmMil  *  1  •  t  *  •^ -r  t  ^ - 

Much 

Till  flmilnaitMir.  • .  •  •                             ' 

Bt^H^ 

BmHiMnbnr ......... 

TUmaRh 

Do       ......... 

flinmu 

Octobar  ........... . 

Aiitfnaft- 

Mow  nun4>>>>*  •  • . 

WooodeoGknlp««. 

NoVMKilMr.A  ■••••».. 

Oocto*  eoBBha,  fltt  llywB, 

AaniiL 


4U:.  are  dMiwfff  la  April  and  Msf ,  and  e*«cp«ft  in 

iMnrba  had  tfuw  Ibr  a  penny;  adoaen  wiU  make  a  very  good  pl» 
orMwp.likeNoraA. 

Tnikey  beodBi  above  a  pMV  eaeh. 

Doeli  flUeli,  aboat  three  bdr-pence  a  aet;  four  eela  wfll  make  a  Careen  of  good 
•MP  far  n»ptm99.    Bee  No.  9M. 

0*«.~Pookiy  ie  in  greeteit  perfection  when  in  neatest  pleatf . 

The  pHea  af  H  faifie  as  much  aa  the  lixe  and  quality  of  it,  and  the  ^pply  at 
marketi  and  the  dwand  for  iL 

It  iiMBeraliy  dMfwt  fkom  March  to  July,  when  the  town  la  Adleit ;  and  eteepest 
about  MNanber,  when  die  came  season  commences,  and  tlie  weather  being  colder, 
allowa  or  its  being  brooght  from  more  distant  parts,  and  the  town  beciuning  thin, 
there  ia  lasB  demand  for  it. 

The  abofe  information  will,  we  trust,  be  very  acceptable  to  economical  fbmiUes, 
who,  ftom  heaving  the  very  high  price  poultry  sometimes  costs,  am  deterred  from 
ever  inquiring  about  it  In  the  cheap  seasons,  we  have  noted,  it  ii  sometimes  aa 
rheap  as  baluier'a  meat 


VEGETABLES. 


The  public  are  frequently,  from  want  of  r^ular  information  when  the- proper 
seasons  arrive  ibr  vegetables,  put  to  much  inconvenience  in  attending  the  mariiets, 
sMking  mmecessary  uquiries,  dec 

The  following  ttst,  it  is  presumed,  will  aifoid  much  useful  information  to  the 
reader:^ 


AWsMf  of  VogtUMn. 


Artichokes  (Na  136) 

Ditto  Jerusalem  (Na  U7) . 

Angelica  slalka,  for  pre- 
aervtng. 

Asparagua  (No.  193) 


Beana,  Frendi,  or  Kidneys. 
Scarlet  dhto 


KotUmI  tinu 
forforced. 


Begin,  of 
Jan 

Early  in 
Feb 


nalMral  growth. 


July  on  to  October. . . 
From  Sept.  to  June  \ 

Middle  of  May,  aM  7 
whole  of  June....  > 

Mid.  of  April,  May^j 
June,  and  July.. .  { 

End  of  June,  or  be-  \ 
ginning  of  July..  ) 

July 


When 
eheapeol. 


September. 
Nov.  Dec  dc 
foil,  months. 

June. 

June  and 
July. 

August 

September. 


SIARXETINa  TABLES. 


359 


JVmim  •/  VegvtMea. 


Windior  beans,  kmg  pods  > 
and  eariy  kinds ) 

Beet,  red  (No.lS7) 

Ditto,  wldte,  the  leaves. .. . 

Borcole.  or  Scotch  Cale,  \ 
or  KaJe \ 

BroccoU(No.l96) 

'Cabbage  (No.  118) 

Ditto,  red.. 4 

Ditto,  white 

Cardoons 


EarUest  Ume 
forforetd. 


Canots  (N0.1S9) 

Cauliflowers  (No.  135). 

Celery  (No.  389) 

ChervU 

Com  salad. • 


EaHiut 


June 

All  the  year 
July.. 

Norember 


.•»••••»•••' 


Chervil  (NO.  964) 

Cucumbers  (No.  135)  • 
Endive..... • 


Eschalots,  for  keeping 
,(No.4fl8) 


Leeks • 

Lettuce,  Cobs 

Ditto,  cabbage 

Onions,  for  keeping. 


March. 


Pandey(No.S61) 

Parsnips  (No.  128) 

Pease  (No.  134) 

Potatoes  (No.  102,  4cc.)< 


Radishes 

Ditto,  turnip,  red 


white 

Ditto,  black,  Bpanlsh 

Small  salad  (No.  372) 

BatoiQr 

Sconsooera 

Sea  Kale  (No.  134)... 

Savoury  cabbage .... 

SorreL *.. 

Spinage,  spring 


and} 


Ditto,  winter 

Tomipe >.» 

Ditto,  tops  (No.  133). 

Ditto,  for  salad,  f.... 
Ditto,  Welch 


{ 


Beg.  or  mid.  \ 
of  May..  \ 

MarclL . . .  •  / 

t^n. 
Bleurc] 


Begin,   of  \ 
ih... .  \ 


Wkmt 

cketipest. 


October. 

May  and  June < 

July  and  August. . .  • 

October 

Nov.  and  three  fol 

lowi^  months...' 

May 

Beginning  of  June.. 
Ditto  Sej^ember.... 

April 

lifay 

March,  wd  through 

theyear.^ 

Begiiming  of  July. . . 
June,   and    through 

the  year.  ••••...... 

August,  and  through 

the  year 

September,  and  six 

months  after. 

April.... 


Dec.  fc  Jan. . 

\ 


\ 


Aug.  Sep.  and  fol 
lowing  months. .... 

Feb.  ana  through  the 
year 

Oet(4)er,  and  conti- 
nue until  May 

June,  July,  and  fol- 
lowing months..... 

May,  and  through  the 
year 

End  of  March,  md 
Allowing  months. . 

Ditto 


August,  and  foQow- 
ing  months........ 

AH  the  year. 
July,  August. 


I  .••.«. . 


April  and  May 

September,  and  fol 
lowing  months..... 

All  the  year. 

March,  Apiti,  and  fU- 
lowing  montlM. .... 

Oct  Nov.  and  follow- 
ing months 

May,  June,  and  fol- 
lowing months..... 

March,    April,   and 
May 

April  and  May 

February 


July  Ic  Ai^ 
DecJfeJan. 

Dec.  k  Jan. 

Feb.  &  Mar 
July. 
August 
October. 

December. 

August 
July  Ac  Aug. 
November. 
June. 

May. 

Aug.  it  Sep 

Sep.  k.  Oct. 

Sep.  9l  two 

fol.  months 

Novem.  and 

December. 
June,   July, 

and  Aug. 
October  and 
.  November. 
February  k. 

March. 

July. 

August,  and 

fol.  month. 

June, 

May&Juoa. 

June. 
June. 

September. 

May  4b  June. 
August. 

May. 

Novemb^. 
June  fc  July. 
June  &  July. 

November. 

JunefcJnly. 

April  and 

May. 
June  and* 

July. 


APnsNDix; 

COilFlUBIKG 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  MAEINO 

PASTRY,  PRESERVES,  BREAD,    PUDDINGS, 

PICKLES,  &c.  dtc. 


P^  PiMfe.— (No.  1.) 

To  apooBd  and  a  ouarter  of  silted  flour  tub  gently  in  with 
the  haaa  half  a  poona  of  fiesh  butter ;  mix  up  with  half  a  pint 
of  spring  water;  knead  it  well,  and  set  it  by  for  a  qaarter  of 
an  hour;  then  roll  it  out  thin,  lay  on  it,  in  small  pieees,  three 

Quarters  of  a  pound  more  of  butter,  throw  on  it  a  little  floor, 
ouble  it  up  in  fiolda,  and  roll  it  out  thin  three  thnes,  and  set 
it  by  for  an  hour  in  a  eold  place. 

Pojte  far  Mm  or  Savoury  Pm.— (No.  2.) 

Sift  two  pounds  of  fine  flour  to  one  and  a  half  of  eood  salt 
batter,  breaik  it  into  small  pieces,  and  wash  it  well  in  cold 
water;  rob  ffen^  together  the  butter  and  flour,  and  mix  it  i^> 
with  the  yeUc  or  three  eggs,  beat  together  with  a  spoon;  and 
nearly  a  pint  of  spring-water;  roll  it  out,  and  double  it  in 
folds  three  times,  and  it  is  ready. 

TaH  Paste  for  FamUy  Pim.— (No.  3.) 

Rub  in  with  the  hand  half  a  poimd  of  butter  into  one  pound 
and  a  quarter  of  flour,  mix  it  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  and 
knead  it  well. 

Smeetf  or  short  and  eri$ped  Tart  Paste,— {No.  4.) 

To  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  fine  flour  add  ten  ounces  of 
fresh  butter,  the  yelks  of  two  eggs  beat,  and  three  ounces  of 
siAed  loaf  sugar;  mix  up  together  with  half  a  i»nt  of  new 
milk,  and  knead  it  well.    See  No.  3p. 

N.B.  This  crust  is  frequently  iced. 


TJMRtf  &C.  361 

Raised  Pte».— (No.  6.) 

Put  two  pounds  andahalfctf  flour  on  the  pasteboard;  and 
put  on  the  fire,  in  a  saucepan,  three  quarters  of  a  pnt  of 
water,  and  half  a  pound  of  good  lard ;  when  the  water  boils, 
make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  flour,  pour  in  the  water  and 
lard  by  degrees,  gently  mixing  the  flour  with  it  with  a  spoon ; 
and  when  it  is  weU  mixed,  then  knead  it  with  your  hands  till 
it  becomes  stifif:  dredge  a  little  flour  to  prevent  its  stickkig  to 
the  board,  or  you  cannot  make  it  look  smooth :  do  not  rcdl  it 
with  the  roUing^-pin,  but  roll  it  with  your  hands,  about  the 
thickness  of  a  quart  pot ;  cut  it  into  six  pieces,  leaving  a  little 
for  the  covers;  put  one  hand  in  the  middle,  sind  keep  the 
other  close  on  the  outside  till  you  have  worked  it  eHher  in  an 
oval  or  a  round  shape :  have  your  meat  ready  cut,  and  sea- 
soned with  pepper  and  salt :  if  pork,  cut  in  small  slices ;  iti^ 
griskin  is  the  best  for  pasties :  if  you  use  mutton,  cut  it  in 
very  neat. cutlets,  and  put  them  in  the  pies  as  you  make  them; 
roll  out  the  covers  with  the  rolling-pin  just  tli^  size  of  the  pie, 
wet  it  round  the  edge,  put  it  on  the  pie,  and  press  it  togetner 
with  your  thumb  and  finger,  and  then  cut  it  all  round  with  a 
pair  of  scissors  quite  even,  and  pinch  them  inside  and  out, 
and  bake  them  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Paste  for  hailed  Puddings. — (No.  6.) 

Pick  and  chop  very  fine  half  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  add  to  it 
one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour,  and  a  little  salt :  mix  it  With 
half  a  pint  of  milk  or  water,  and  beat  it  well  with  the  roUkig- 
pin,  to  incorporate  the  suet  with  the  flour. 

Paste  for  stringing  Tartlets^  4^.— (No.  7.) 

Mix  with  your  hands  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour,  s^ 
ounce  of  fresh  butter,  and  a  little  cold  water;  rub  it  w^ 
between  the  board  and  your  hand  till  it  begins  to  string;  cut 
it  into  small  pieces,  roll  it  out,  and  draw  it  into  fine  strxtigs» 
lay  them  across  your  tartlets  in  any  device  you  iddase,  i^ 
bake  them  immediately. 

Paste  fir  Crogwmts  or  Cut  Pastry^^o.  8*) 

To  half  a  pound  of  fine  flour  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
silled  loaf  sugar;  mix  it  well  together  with  yelks  of  egga  Iffl 
of  a  good  stiffiiess. 

^  li 


362  PAflTsy,  dtc. ' 

rentMNi  PoMy.— (No.  9.) 

Take  a  neck,  shoulder,  or  breast  of  yenison,  that  has  not 
hung  too  long;  bone  them,  trim  off  all  the  skin,  and  cut  it  iifto 
pieces  two  inches  square,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with 
three  gills  of  Port  wine,  two  onions,  or  a  few  eschalots 
sliced;  some  pepper,  salt,  three  blades  of  mace,  about  a 
doasen  allspice,  and  enough  Teal  broth  to  cover  it ;  put  it  over 
a  slow  fire,  and  let  it  stew  till  three  parts  done ;  put  the  trim- 
mings into  ano&er  saucepan,  cover  it  with  water,  and  set  it 
on  a  fire.  Take  out  the  pieces  you  intend  for  the  pasty,  and 
pat  them  into  a  deep  dish  with  a  little  of  their  liquor,  and  set 
it  by  to  cool ;  then  add  the  remainder  of  the  liquor  to  the 
bones  and  trimmings,  and  boil  it  till  the  pasty  i&  ready;  then 
cover  the  pasty  with  paste  made  like  No.  5 ;  ornament  the 
top,  and  bake  it  for  two. hours  in  a  slow  oven;  and  before  it 
is  sent  to  table,  pour  in  a  sauce  made  with  the  gravy  the 
venison  was  stewed  in,  strained  and  slummed  free  from  fat ; 
some  pepper,  salt,  half  a  gill  of  Port,  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  a  little  flour  and  butter  to  thick^  it. 

MutUm  or  Vtal  Pic— (No.  10.) 

Cut  into  chops,  and  trim  neatly,  and  cut  away  the  greatest 
part  of  the  fat  of  a  loin,  or  best  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton  (the 
former  the  best),  season  them,  and  lay  them  in  a  pie  dish, 
with  a  -little  water  and  half  a  gill  of  mushroom  catchup 
(chopped  onion  and  potatoes,  if  approved);  cover  it  with 
paste  (No.  3),  bake  it  two  hours ;  when  done,  lift  up  the  crust 
from  the  dish  with  a  knife,  pour  out  all  the  gravy,  let  it  stand, 
and  skim  it  .clean;  add,  if  wanted,  some  more  seasoning; 
make  it  boil,  and  pour  it  into  the  pie. 

Veal  pie  may  be  made  of  the  brisket  part  of  the  breast ;  but 
must  be  paiboiled  first. 

Jfore  Pw.— (No.  11.) 

Take  the  hare  skinned  and  washed,  cut  it  into  pieces,  and 
parboil  it  for  two  minutes  to  cleanse  it ;  wash  it  well,  and  put 
It  in  a  stew-pot  with  six  eschalots  chopped,  a  gill  of  Port 
wine,  a  small  quantity  of  th5rme,  savoury,  sweet  marjoram, 
and  parsley,  tied  in  a  bunch,  four  cloves,  and  half  a  dozen 
allspice ;  cover  it  with  veal  broth,  and  stew  it  till  Imlf  done ; 
pick  out  the  prime  pieces,  such  as  the  back,  legs,  &c.  (leaving 
the  xemainder  to  stew  till  the  goodness  is  quite  extracted) ; 
take  the  parts  preserved,  and  fill  them  into  a  dish  with  some 
water,  and  cover  it  with  paste  as  No.  2;  bake  it  an  hour; 


FAStBr,  &c.  3G3 

strain  the  gravy  from  the  trimmings,  thicken  it  a  litUe,  and 
throw  in  half  a  gill  of  Port,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and 
pour  it  into  the  pie  boiling  hot;  line  the  bottom  of  the  dish 
with  Hare  stuffing  (No.  379),  or  make  it  into  forcemeat 
l)alls. 

Pies  of  game  and  wild  fowl  are  made  in  like  manner ;  and. 
as  the  following  receipt  for  Pigeon  pie. 

Savoury  Piesj  Pasties^  and  Partes.— (No.  12.) 

The  jnquance  of  pies  may  be  regulated  ad  lUnium^  by 
sprinkhng  the  articles  with  zest  (No.  355),  curry  powder  No. 
455,  and  see  Nos.  457  and  459),  or  by  covering  the  bottom  of 
the  dish  with  an^r  of  the  forcemeats  enumerated  in  Nos.  373 
to  385,  and  making  it  into  balls ;  lay  one  ring  of  these,  and 
another  of  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  halves,  round  the  top  of 
the  pie;  and  instead  of  putting  in  water,  put  strong  gravy. 
After  the  pies  are  baked,  pour  in  through  a  funnel  any  of  the 
vapous  gravies,  sauces,  &c. :  truffles,  mushrooms,  wine, 
spices,  pickles,  &c.  are  also  added.  See  also  Nos.  396 
to  403. 

Mem.  These  are  dishes  contrived  rather  to  excite  appetite 
than  to  satisfy  it.  Putting  meat  or  poultry  into  a  pie  is  cer- 
tainly the  very  worst  way  of  cooking  it ;  it  is  often  baked  to 
rags;  and  very  rarely  indeed  does  a  savoury  pie  come  to 
table  that  deserves  to  be  introduced  to  the  stomach. 

Pigeon  or  Lark  Pt«.— (No.  13.) 

Truss  half  a  dozen  fine  large  pigeons  as  for  stewing,  sea- 
son them  with  pepper  and  salt ;  lay  at  the  bottoin  of  the  dish 
a  rump-steak  of  about  a  pound  weight,  cut  into  pieces  and 
trimmed  neatly,  seasoned,  and  beat  out  with  a  chopper:  on 
it  lay  the  {Hgeons,  the  yelks  of  three  egffs  boiled  hs^,  and  a 
giU  of  broth  or  water,  and  over  these  a  layer  of  steaks ;  wet 
3ie  edge  of  the  dish,  and  cover  it  over  with  puff  paste  (No.  1), 
or  the  paste  as  directed  for  seasoned  pies  (No.  3) ;  wash  it 
over  with  yelk  of  egf^  and  ornament  it  with  leaves  of  paste 
and  the  feet  of  the  pigeons ;  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a 
moderate-heated  oven:  before  it  is  sent  to  table  make  an 
aperture  in  the  top,  and  pour  in  some  good  gravy  quite  hot. 

GMei  Pte.^(No.  14.) 

Clean  well,  and  half  stew  two  or  three  sets  of  gooee  gib- 
lets: cut  the  legs  in  two,  the  wing  and  neck  into  tiuwe,  and 
the  gizzard  into  four  pieces;  preserve  the  liquor,  an^set  tjie 


\ 


I' 


964  TAgOLYf  &€• 

Siblets  by  tSL  cold,  otherwise  tiie  lieat  of  the  giblets  wiU  spoil 
le  piste  you  corer  the  pie  with :  then  season  the  iHioie  with 
Usek  pepper  end  salt,  and  put  them  into  a  deep  dish;  cover 
it  with  paste  as  directed  in  No.  8,  rub  it  orer  with  yelk  of 
egg,  ornament  and  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate 
oren:  in  the  meantinfe  take  the  liquor  the  giblets  were 
stewed  in,  skim  it  free  ftom  fat,  put  it  over  a  fira  in  a  clean 
stew*pao,  thicken  it  a  little  witti  flour  and  butter,  or  flour  and 
water,  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon;  add  a  few  d^ps  of  browning,  strain  it  through  a  fine 
sicTe,  and  when  you  take  the  pie  from  the  oven,  pour  some 
of  this  into  it  throuffh  a  funnel.  Some  lay  in  the  bottom  of 
the  dish  a  moderatefy  thick  rump-stesLk :  if  you  have  any  cold 
game  or  poultry,  cut  it  in  pieces,  and  add  it  to  the  above. 

Run^-Steak  Pm.— (No.  15.) 

Cut  three  pounds  of  rump-steak  (that  has  been  kept  tiH 
tender)  into  pieces  half  as  big  as  your  hand,  trim  off  iH  ibe 
skin,  smews,  and  every  part  which  has  not  indisputable  pre- 
tensions to  be  eaten,  and  beat  them  with  a  chopper:  e&op 
very  fine  half  a  dozen  eschalots,  and  add  them  to  half  an 
ounce  of  pepper  and  salt  mixed ;  strew  some  of  the  mixture 
at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then  a  layer  of  steak,  then  some 
more  of  the  mixture,  and  so  on  tiH  the  dish  is  ftdl ;  add  half 
a  gill  of  muslm)om  catchup,  and  the  same  quantity  of  gravy, 
or  red  wine ;  cover  it  as  in  the  preceding  receipt,  and  bake 
it  two  hours. 

N.B.  Large  oysters,  parboiled,  bearded,  and  laid  alter- 
nately with  the  steaks,  their  liquor  reduced  and  substituted 
histead  of  the  catchup  and  wine,  will  be  a  variety. 

Chicken  Pie. — (No.  16.) 

Paiboil,  and  then  cut  up  neatly  two  yovmg  chickens ;  dry 
them;  set  them  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  few  minutesi  have 
ready  some  veal  stuffing  or  forcemeat  (No.  37i  or  No.  375), 
lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  place  in  the  chickens 
upon  it,  and  with  it  some  pieces  of  dressed  ham;  cover  it 
with  paste  (No.  1).  Bake  it  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two 
hours;  when  sent  to  table,  add  some  good  gravy,  well 
seasoned,  and  not  too  thick. 

Duck  pie  is  made  in  like  manner,  only  substituting  the 
duck  stuffing  (No.  378),  instead  of  the  veal. 

N.B.  The  above  may  be  put  into  a  raised  French  crust 
(see  No.  18)  and  baked;  when  done,  take  oflf  the  top,  and 
put  a  ragoQt  of  sweetbread  to  the  chicken. 


FASTSY,   &C.  SM 

jRahUt  Pi>.— (No.  17.) 

Made  in  the  same  way ;  but  make  a  forcemeat  to  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  dish,  oy  pomiding  a  quarter  of  a  pomid 
ci  boiled  bacon  with  the  livers  of.  tSa  rabbits ;  some  pepper 
and  salt,  some  pom^ed  mace,  some  chopped  paiBley^  and  an 
eschalot,  dioroughly  beaten  together ;  and  you  may  lay  s<H}ie 
thin  slices  of  ready-dressed  ham  or  bacon  on  the  top  of  your 
rabbits.  **  This  pie  will  ask  two  hoars  baking,*^  says  Mrs. 
Mary  Tillingfaast,  in  page  89  of  her  13mo.  vol.  of  rare  re- 
ceipts, 1678. 

Raised  French  l\e.*— (No.  18.) 

Make  about  two  pounds  of  flour  into  a  paste,  as  directed 
(No.  6) ;  knead  it  well,  and  into  the  shape  of  a  ball ;  press 
your  thumb  into  the  centre,  and  work  it  by  degrees  mto  any 
slume  (ovai  or  round  is  the  most  general},  till  about  five 
inches  nigh ;  put  it  on  a  sheet  of  paper,  and  nil  it  with  coarse 
.flour  or  mn ;  roll  out  a  covering  for  it  about  the  same  thick- 
ness as  the  sides ;  cement  its  sides  with  the  yelk  of  egg ; 
cut  the  edges  quite  even,  and  pinch  it  round  with  the  finger 
and  thumb,  yelk  of  egg  it  over  with  a  paste*brush,  and  orna- 
ment it  in  any  way  fancy  may  direct,  with  the  same  kind  of 
paste.  Bake  it  of  a  fine  brown  colour,  in  a  slow  oven ;  and 
when  done,  cut  out  the  top,  remove  the  flour  or  bran,  brush 
it  quite  dean,  and  fill  it  up  vrHh  a  fricassee  of  chicken,  rab* 
bit,  or  any  other  entr^  most  convenient.  Send  it  to  table 
with  a  napkin  imder. 

Raited  Ham  Pie.— (No.  19.) 

Soak  a  small  ham  four  or  five  hours ;  wash  and  scrape  it 
well;  cutoff  the  knuckle,  and  boil  it  for  half  an  hour;  then 
take  it  up  and  trim  it  very  neatly;  take  ofl"  the  rind  and  put 
it  into  an  oval  stew-pan,  with  a  pint  of  Madeira  or  sherry, 
and  enough  veal  stock  to  cover  it.  Let  it  stew  for  two  hours, 
or  till  three  parts  done ;  take  it  out  and  set  it  in  a  cold  place ; 
then  raise  a  crust  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  laige  enough 
to  receive  it ;  put  in  the  ham,  and  round  it  the  veal  force- 
meat ;  cover  and  ornament ;  it  will  take  about  an  hour  and 
a  half  to  bake  in  a  slow  oven :  when  done,  take  off  the 
cover,  glaze  the  top,  and  pour  round  the  followinff  0auce» 
viz.  take  the  liquor  tne  ham  was  stewed  in ;  skim  it  free  firom. 
fat ;  thicken  with  a  little  floor  and  butter  mixed  togeAer ;  a 
few  drops  of  browning,  and  some  Cayenne  pepper, 

Hh3 


366  PASTRir,  &c. 

P.S.  The  above  is,  I  think,  a  good  way  of  dressing  a  small 
ham,  and  has  a  good  effect  cold  for  a  8iq[iper. 

Feai  and  Ham  Pt>.— (No.  20.) 

Take  two  pounds  of  veal  cutlet,  cut  them  in  oiiddling- 
sized  pieces,  season  with  pepper  and  a  yeiy  little  salt ;  like- 
wise one  of  raw  or  dressed  nam  cut  in  slices,  lay  it  alter- 
nately in  the  dish,  and  put  some  forced  or  sausage  meat  (No. 
374,  or  No.  375)  at  the  top,  with  some  stewed  button  mush- 
rooms, and  the  yelks  of  tluree  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  gill  of 
water ;  then  proceed  as  with  rump-steak  pie. 

N.B.  The  best  end  of  a  neck  is  the  fine  part  for  a  pie,  cut 
into  chops,  and  Uie  chine  bone  taken  away. 

Raiied  Pork  Pie.— (No.  21.) 

Make  a  raised  crust,  of  a  good  size,  with  ,  paste  (as  di- 
rected in  No.  6),  about  four  inches  high ;  take  the  rind  ^and 
(*hine  bone  from  a  loin  of  pork,  cut  it  into  chops,  beat  them 
with  a  chopper,  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill 
your  pie ;  put  on  the  top  and  close  it,  and  pinch  it  round  the 
edge ;  rub  it  over  with  yelk  of  egg,  and  bake  it  two  hours  witli 
a  paper  over  it,  to  prevent  the  crust  from  burning.  When 
done,  pour  in  some  good  gravy,  with  a  little  ready-mixed 
mustard  (if  approved). 

N.B.  As  the  above  is  generally  eaten  cold,  it  is  an  ex- 
cellent repast  for  a  journey,  and  will  keep  for  several  days. 

Eel  Ptc— (No.  22.) 

Take  eels  about  half  a  pound  each ;  skin,  wash,  and  trim 
off  the  fin  with  a  pair  of  scissors,  cut  them  into  pieces  three 
inches  long,  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  your 
dish,  leaving  out  the  heads  and  tails.  Add  a  gill  of  water  or 
veal  broth,  cover  it  with  paste  (No.  2),  rub  it  over  with  a 
paste-brush  dipped  in  yelk  of  egg^  ornament  it  with  some  of 
the  same  paste,  bake  it  an  hour;  and  when. done,  make  a 
hole  in  the  centre,  and  pour  in  the  following  sauce  through 
a  funnel :  the  trimmings  boiled  in  half  a  pint  of  veal  stock, 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of  lemon- 
juice,  and  thickenea  with  fiour  and  water,  strained  through 
a  fine  sieve :  add  it  boiling  hot. 

Raised  Lamb  Ptef.— (No,  23.) 
Bone  a  loin  of  lamb,  cut  into  cutlets,  trim  them,  very 


PASTRY,  &.C.  367 

nicely,  and  lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  stew  or  frying-pan, 
with  an  ounce  of  butter,  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon-juice,  and 
some  pepper  and  salt :  put  them  over  a  fire,  and  turn  them 
and  put  them  to  cool ;  then  raise  four  or  five  small  pies  with 
paste  (as  No.  6),  about  the  size  of  a  tea-cup ;  put  some  veal 
forcemeat  at  the  bottom,  and  the  cutlets  upon  it ;  roll  out  the 
top  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  close  and  pinch  the  edges, 
bake  them  half  an  hour,  and  when  done  take  off  the  top,  and 
pour  in  some  good  brown  sauce. 

BeefiSUak  Puddtng.'-(No.  24.) 

Get  rump-steaks,  not  too  thick,  beat  them  with  a  chopper, 
cut  them  into  pieces  about  half  the  size  of  your  hand,  and 
trim  off  all  the  skin,  sinews,  &;c. ;  have  ready  an  onion  peeled 
and  chopped  fme,  likewise  some  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  into 
slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  rub  the  inside  of  a  basin  or 
an  oval  plain  mould  with  butter,  sheet  it  with  paste  as  di- 
rected for  boiled  puddings  (No.  7) ;  season  the  steaks  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg ;  put  in  a  layer  of 
steak,  then  another  of  potatoes,  and  so  on  till  it  is  full,  occa- 
sionally throwing  in  part  of  the  chopped  onion ;  add  to  it  half 
a  gill  of  mushroom  catchup,  a  table-spoonful  of  lemon- 
pickle,  and  half  a  gill  of  water  or  veal  broth ;  roll  out  a  top, 
and  close  it  well  to  prevent  the  water  gettmg  in ;  rinse  a 
clean  cloth  in  hot  water,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  it,  and 
tie  up  the  pudding ;  have  ready  a  large  pot  of  water  boiling, 
put  it  in,  and  boil  it  two  hours  and  a  half;  take  it  up,  re- 
move the  cloth,  turn  it  downwards  in  a  deep  dish,  and  when 
wanted  take  away  the  basin  or  mould. 

Fd  au  Fent.^(So.  25.) 

Roll  off  tart  paste  (No.  3)  till  about  the  eighth  of  an  indi 
thick :  then,  with  a  tin  cutter  made  for  that  purpose  (about 
the  size  of  the  bottom  of  the  dish  you  intend  senmng  to 
table),  cut  out  the  shape,  and  lay  it  on  a  baking-plate  with 
paper ;  rub  it  over  with  yelk  of  egg ;  roll  out  good  puff  paste 
^No.  1)  an  inch  thick,  stamp  it  with  the  same  cutter,  and  lay 
it  on  the  tart  paste ;  then  take  a  cutter  two  sizes  smaller,  and 
press  it  in  the  centre  nearly  through  the  puff  paste ;  r&b  the 
top  with  yelk  of  egg,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven  about  twenty 
minutes,  of  a  light  brown  colour :  when  done,  take  out  the 
paste  inside  the  centre  mark,  preserving  the  top,  put  it  on  a 
dish  in  a  warm  place,  and  when  wanted,  fill  it  with  a  white 
fricassee  of  chicken,  rabbit,  ragodt  of  sweetbread,  or  any, 
Qther  entfi^e  you  wish. 


96t  PA0rmr»  d&c. 

RoQ  out  pair  paste  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thicks  cut  it  into 
squavM  with  a  luiife,  «hi^t  ei^or  ten  patty  pans,  pot  vspfUL 
eaeb  a  bit  of  bread  the  aiae  of  half  a  walnut;  loU  oat 
another  laver  of  paste  of  the  same  thidmess,  cut  it  as  abore, 
wet  the  9wt  of  the  bott^iHQ  paste,  and  put  on  the  top»  pare 
them  round  to  the  pan,  and  notch  them  about  a  dozen  times 
with  the  back  of  the  knifcu  rub  them  lightly  with  y^lk  of 
egg,  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour : 
when  done,  tiUie  a  thin  slice  off  the  top,  then,  with  a  small 
knife  or  spoon,  ti^e  out  the  bread  and  the  inside  paste, 
learing  the  outside  quite  entire  \  then  paiboil  two  dozen  of 
large  oysters,  strain  them  fxmn  their  liquor,  wash,  beard,  and 
cut  them  into  four,  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  an  ouMce 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  half  a  gill  of  sood  cream,  a  lit^e 
grated  lemon-peel,  the  oyster  UquiMr,  free  from  sediment, 
reduced  by  boiling  to  one  half,  some  Oajremie  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon-juioe;  stir  it  orer  a  ire  fire 
minutes,  and  fill  the  patties. 

LobtUr  Pcat%ei.^Ko.  97.) 

Prq>aie  the  patties  as  in  ithe  last  receipt.  Take  a  hen 
lobster  akeady  boiled;  pick  the  meat  from  the  tail  and 
claws,  and  chop  it  fine ;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  Iktle 
of  the  inside  spawn  pounded  in  a  mottiax  till  quite  sinooth, 
an  ounce  of  6esh  butter,  half  a  giU  of  cream,  and  half  a 
gill  of  veal  consomme,  Cay^uie  pepper,  and  salt,  a  tea* 
spoonful  of  essence  oi  anchovyi  the  same  of  lempn-^uice, 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  and  water:  stew  it  five  minutes. 

Feal  and  Ham  Paau8.^No.  38.) 

Chop  about  six  ounces  of  ready-drsssed  lean  veal,  and 
three  ounces  of  ham  very  small ;  put  it  mto  a  stew-pan  with 
an  ounce  of  butter  rolled  into  flour,  half  a  giU  of  cieam ; 
half  a  gill  of  veal  stock ;  a  little  grated  nutmer  and  lemon- 
peel,  some  Cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  a  spoonfm  of  essence 
of  ham  and  lemon-juice,  and  stir  it  ovw  the  fire  some  time, 
takinjg  care  it  does  not  bum. 

C&idkeii  and  Ham  Patties.^No.  29.) 

Use  te  white  meat  from  the  breast  of  chickois  «r JbwlSi 
and  proceed  as  in  the  last  receipt. 


Ripe  FruU  Tarti.^No.  30.) 

Gooseberries,  damsons,  morrello  cherries,  currants  mix^^ 
"With  raspberries,  plums,  green  gages,  white  pluins,  &c.  should 
be  quite  fresh  picked,  and  waited :  lay  tiiem  in  the  dish 
with  the  centre  highest,  and  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
moist  or  loaf  sugar  pounded  to  a  quart  of  fruit  (but  if  quite 
ripe  they  will  not  require  so  muchj ;  add  a  littie  water ;  rub 
the  edges  of  the  dish  with  yelk  oi  egg;  cover  it  with  tart 
paste  (No.  4),  about  half  an  inch  thick;  pres^  your  thumb 
round  the  rim,  and  close  it  well ;  pare  it  round  with  a  knif  jb  ; 
make  a  hole  in  the  sides  below  the  rim ;  bake  it  in  a  mode- 
rate-heated oven ;  and  ten  minutes  before  it  is  done,  take  it 
out  and  ice  it,  and  return  it  to  the  oven  to  dry.' 

Icing  for  FrvU  Tarts,  Puffs,  or  Pastry — (No.  81.) 

Beat  up  in  a  half-pint  mug  the  white  of  two  eggs  to  a 
solid  frodi ;  lay  some  on  the  middle  of  the  pie  with  a  paste* 
brush ;  sift  over  plenty  of  pounded  sugar,  and  press  it  down 
with  the  hand ;  wash  out  the  brush,  and  splash  by  degrees 
with  water  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  put  it  in  the  oven 
for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  it  up  cold. 

Apple  F»«.— (No.  32.) 

Take  eight  russetings,  or  lemon  pippin  apples ;  parCy  core* 
and  cut  not  smaller  than  quarters ;  place  them  as  close  9S^ 
possible  together  into  a  pie-dish,  with  four  cloves ;  rub  toge*^ 
ther  in  a  mortar  some  lemon-peel,  with  four  ounces  of  good 
moist  sugar,  and,  if  agreeable,  add  some  quince  jam;  cover 
it  with  puff  paste ;  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  (Generally 
eaten  warm.) 

A^le  Tart  creawMrf.— (No.  33.) 

Use  green  codlings,  in  preference  to  any  other  apple^' 
and  proceed  as  in  the  last  receipt.  When  the  pie  is  done^ 
cut  put  tiie  whole  of  the  centre,  leaving  the  eige^\  when 
c<^d,  pour  on  the  apple  some  rich  boiled  custard,,  and  place 
rouna  it  some  small  leaves  of  puff  paste  of  a  light  colour* 

TarUets,  suck  as  aremade  at  ^  Pastry  €boA9.— (No.  34.) 

Soil  out  puff  paste  (No.  1,)  of  ^  quarter  of  anjmcii  iM0k% 
cut  it  into  piecesf  and  sheet  pans  about  the  siz^  of  a  crowp 
piece,  pare  them  round  with  a  knife,  and  put  a  small  quan^jiv 
of  apncoty  damson»  raspberry,  strawberry,  apple»  mannalad. j^ 


370  f  ASTRYy  d&C. 

or  any  other  kind  of  jam  (No.  93),  in  the  centre ;  take  paste 
(No.  7),  and  string  them  crossways ;  bake  the^n  from  six  to 
ten  minutes  in  a  quick  oven :  they  should  be  of  a  very  light 
brown  colour. 

French  Tart  of  preserved  Frvit. — (No.  35.) 

Cover  a  flat  dish,  or  tourte  pan,  with  tart  paste  (No*  4), 
about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick ;  roll  out  puff  paste  (jko.  1), 
half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  it  out  in  strips  an  inch  wide ;  wet 
the  tart  paste,  and  lay  it  neatly  round  the  pan  by  way  of  a  rim ; 
fill  the  centre  with  jam  or  marmalade  of  any  Kind,  ornament 
it  with  small  leaves  of  puff  paste,  bake  it  half  an  hour,  and 
send  it  to  table  cold. 

N.B.  The  above  may  be  filled  before  the  puff  paste  is  laid 
on,  neatly  strung  with  paste,  as  No.  7,  and  the  rim  put  over 
after. 

Obs. — The  most  general  way  of  sending  touHes  to  table, 
is  with  a  croquante  of  paste  (No.  86),  or  a  caramel  of  spun 
sugar  (No.  85),  put  over  after  it  is  baked. 

Small  Puff's  of  preserved  Fruit — (No.  36.) 

^ 

Roll  out,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  good  puff  paste  (No. 
1),  and  cut  it  into  pieces  four  inches  square ;  lay  a  smadl 
quantity  of  any  kind  of  jam  on  each,  double  them  over,  and 
cut  them  into  square,  triangle,  or,  with  a  tin  cutter,  half 
moons;  lay  them  with  paper  on  a  baking-plate;  ice  them 
(as  at  No.  31),  bake  them  about  twenty  minutes,  taking  care 
not  to  colour  the  icing. 

Cranberry  Tart. — (No.  37.) 

Take  Swedish,  American,  or  Russian  cranberries,  piek 
and  wash  them  in  several  waters,  put  them  into  a  dish,  with 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  moist  or 
pounded  Idaf  sugar,  to  a  quart  of  cranberries.  Cover  it 
with  puff  TNo.  1)  or  tart  paste  (No.  4),  and  bake  it  three 
quarters  of  an  hour;  if  tart  paste  is  used,  draw  it  from  the 
oven  five  minutes  before  it  is  done,  and  ice  it  as  No.  31, 
return  it  to  the  oven,  and  send  it  to  table  cold. 

Mnce  Ptes.~(No.  3&.) 

Sheet  with  tart  paste  (No.  4),  half  a  dozen  of  tin  pans  of 
any  size  you  please ;  fill  them  with  mince  meat  (No.  39), 
and  cover  with  puff  paste,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  trim 


FASTBYy  &fi  371 

round  the  edges  with  a'  knife,  maJbe  an  aperture  at  the  top 
with  a  fork,  bake  them  in  a  moderate-heated  oven,  and  send 
them  to  table  hot,  first  removing  the  tin. 
N.B.  Some  throw  a  little  sifted  loaf  sugar  over. 

MnceMeai. — (No.  39.) 

Two  pounds  of  beef  suet,  picked  and  chopped  fine ;  two 
pounds  of  apple,  p^red,  cored,  and  minced ;  three  pounds  of 
currants,  wasned  and  picked ;  one  pound  of  raisins,  stoned 
and  chopped  fine;  one  pound  of  good  moist  sugar;  half 
a  pound  of  citron,  cut  into  thin  slices ;  one  pound  of  candied 
lemon  and  orange-peel,  cut  as  ditto ;  two  pounds  of  ready- 
dressed  roast  beef,  free  from  skin  and  gristle,  and  chopped 
fine ;  two  nutmegs,  grated ;  one  ounce  of  salt,  one  of  ground 
ginger,  half  an  ounce  of  coriander  seeds,  half  an  ounce  of 
allspice,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  all  ground  fine ;  the  juice 
of  six  lemons,  and  their  rinds  grated ;  half  a  pint  of  brandy, 
and  a.  pint  of  sweet  wine.  Mix  the  suet,  apples,  currants, 
meat-plums,  and  sweetmeats,  well  together  in  a  large  pan, 
and  strew  in  the  spice  by  degrees ;  mix  the  sugar,  lemon- 
juice,  wine,  and  brandy,  ana  pour  it  to  the  other  ingre- 
dients, and  stir  it  well  together ;  set  it  by  in  close-covered 
pans  in  a  cold  place:  when  wanted,  stir  it  up  from  the 
bottom,  and  add  half  a  glass  of  brandy  to  the  quantity  you 
require. 

N.B.  The  same  weight  of  tripe  is  frequently  substituted 
for  the  meat,  and  sometimes  the  yelks  of  eggs  boiled  hard. 

Obs, — ^The  lean  side  of  a  buttock,  thoroughly  roasted,  is 
generally  chosen  for  mince  meat. 

Cheencakes, — (No.  40.) 

Put  two  quarts  of  new  milk  into  a  stew-pan,  set  it  near 
the  fire,  and  stir  in  two  table-spoonfuls  of  rennet:  let  it 
stand  till  it  is  set  (this  will  take  about  an  hour) ;  break  it 
well  with  your  hand,  and  let  it  remain  half  an  hour  longer ; 
then  pour  off  the  whey,  and  put  the  curd  into  a  colander  to 
drain ;  when  quite  dry,  put  it  in  a  mortar,  and  pound  it  quite 
smoodi ;  then  add  four  ounces  of  sugar,  pounded  and  sifted, 
and  three  ounces  of  fresh  butter ;  ou  it  first  by  putting'  it  in 
a  little  potting-pot,  and  setting  it  near  the  fire ;  stir  it  all  well 
together:  beat  the  yelks  of  four  eggs  in  a  basin,  with  a  litUe 
nutmeg  grated,  lemon-peel,  and  a  glass  of  brandy ;  add  this 
to  the  curd,  with  two  ounces  of  currants,  \7ashed  and  picked; 
stir  it  all  well  together;  have  your  tins  ready  lined  with  puff 
paste  (No.  1),  about  a  quarter  of  an  iiich  tmck,  notch  them 


572  PASTBr,  &c. 

aUnMmd  the  e4|e»  and  ii|l  each  with  the  curd.    Ba)Le  them, 
nrenty  minutes. 

When  70U  haVe  eompenj,  and  want  a  varietyy  y^^  ^^9 
make  a  mould  of  curd  and  cream^  bv  putting  the  curd  i|i  a 
mould  full  of  hcrfee,  instead  of  the  colander:  let  it  stand  for 
aiz  hoinSf  then  turn  |t  out  yeiy  car9fully  on  a  dish,  and  pour 
orer  it  half  a  pint  of  food  cream  sweetened  with  loaf  sug^ar, 
and  a  liUle  nutmeg'  what  there  is  left,  if  set  in  a  cool  plaee, 
will  make  ezcdleat  cheesecaikes  the  next  day. 

Lunon  C3k«6tecdbet."*-(No.  41.) 

Grate  the  lind  oi  three,  and  take  to  jmoe  of  two  lemons, 
and  mix  them  with  three  sponge  biscuits,  six  ounces  of  fresh 
butter,  four  ounces  of  sifted  siu^ar,  a  little  grated  nutmeg 
and  pounded  cinnamon,  half  a  gi&  of  cream,  and  three  eg'gs 
well  beaten ;  work  Uiem  with  the  hand,  and  Qll  the  pan9, 
which  must  be  sheeted  as  in  the  last  receipt  with  puif  paste, 
and  lay  two  or  three  slices  of  candied  lemon-peel,  cut  thin, 
upon  Uie  top. 

Orange  Cheeucakes.-^Ne.  49.) 

To  be  made  in  the  same  way,  omitting  the  lemons,  and 
Using  <tfange6  instead. 

Mmand  CSieeaecaket.-^iSo,  43.) 

^aneh  six  ounces  of  sweet,  and  half  an  ounce  of  bitter 
ahnonds;  let  them  lie  half  an  hour  in  a  dr]ring  stove,  or 
before  the  fire ;  pound  them  very  fine  in  a  mortar,  with  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  rose  or  orange-flower  water,  to  prevent 
them  from  oiling;  set  into  a  stew-pan  half  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter ;  set  it  in  a  warm  place,  and  cream  it  very  smooth  with 
^e  hand,  and  add  it  to  the  almonds,  with  six  ounces  ot  sifted 
loaf  sugar,  a  little  grated  lemon-peel,  some  good  cream,  and 
four  eggs ;  rub  all  well  together  with  the  pestle ;  cover  a  patty- 
pan with  puff  paste ;  flu  in  the  mixture ;  ornament  it  with 
slices  of  candied  lemon-peel  and  almonds  split,  and  bake  it 
half  an  hour  in  a  brisk  oven. 

Mille  FeuUUif  or  a  Pyramid  (f  PcuU. — (No.  44.) 

Roll  out  puff  paste  (No.  1,)  half  an  inch  thick ;  cut  out 
with  a  cutter  msule  for  the  pmpose,  in  the  shape  of  an  oval, 
•ctagon,  square,  diamond,  or  any  other  torm,  (and  to  be  got 
of  most  tinmen,)  observing  to  let  the  first  {Hcce  be  as  larg« 


FASTSY,  &,C,.  373 

as  the  bottom  of  the  difh  you  intend  seading  it  to  taUe  on : 
the  second  pieee  a  size  smaller,  and  so  on  in  proportion,  Ull 
the  last  is  aubout  the  aize  of  a  shilling;  lay  them  with  paper 
on  a  baking-plate,  yelk  of  egg  the  top,  and  bake  them  of  a 
light  brown  colour :  take  them  from  the  paper,  and  when 
cold  put  the  largest  size  in  the  dish,  then  a  layer  t>f  apricot 
jam ;  then  the  next  size,  a  layer  of  raspberry  jam,  and  so  on, 
Taiying  the  jam  between  each  layer  of  paste  to  the  top,  on 
which  place  a  bunch  of  dried  fruit,  and  spin  a  carsmiel  (No. 
85)  of  sugar  over  it. 

Brunrmtk  Toiif1e.-*-(No.  45.) 

Make  a  crust  as  for  vol  au  vent  (No.  25) ;  pare  and  core 
with  a  scoop  eight  or  ten  golden  pippins;  put  them  into 
a  stew-pan,  with  a  gill  of  sweet  wine,  and  four  ounces 
of  sifted  loaf  sugar,  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  a  amall  stick  of 
cinnamon,  and  a  blade  of  mace;  stew  &em  over  a  slow 
fire  till  the  s^ples  sure  tender;  set  them  by:  when  cold, 
place  them  in  the  paste,  and  pour  round  them  some  good 
custard  (No.  53). 

Blancmange* — (No.  46.) 

Boil  for  a  few  minutes  a  pint  and  a  half  of  new  milk,  with 
an  ounce  of  picked  isinfflass  (if  in  summer,  one  ounce  and 
a  quarter),  the  rind  of  naif  a  lemon,  peeled  very  thin,  a 
little  cinnamon,  and  a  blade  of  mace,  and  two  and  a  half 
ounces  of  lump  sugar:  blanch  and  pound  eight  or  ten  bitter, 
and  half,  an  ounce  of  sweet  almonds  very  fine,  with  a 
spoonful  of  rose  water,  and  mix  them  with  the  milk; 
strain  it  through  a  lawn  sieve  or  napkin  into  a  basin,  with 
half  a  pint  or  good  cream.  Let  it  stand  half  an  hour^ 
pour  it  into  another  basin,  leaving  the  sediment  at  the 
bottom,  and  when  nearly  cold  fill  it  into  moulds:  when 
wanted,  put  your  finger  round  the  mould ;  pull  out  the  blanc- 
mange ;  set  it  in  the  centre  of  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  slices 
of  orange. 

N.B.  About  half  a  giU  of  noyeau  may  be  substituted  for 
the  almonds. 

Orange  JieZZy.— (No.  47 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  water  one  ounce  and  a  quarter  of  picked 
isinglass,  the  rind  of  an  orange  cut  thin,  a  stick  of  cin« 
namon,  a  few  corianders,  and  three  ounces  of  loaf-sugpr, 
till  the  isinglass  is  dissolved;  then  squeeze  two  Seville 

li 


374  PA8TBV»  ^. 

oranges  or  lemontf,  and  enough  China  oranges  to 
a  pint  of  juice :  mix  all  together,  and  strain  it  through  a 
tamis  or  lawn  sieve  into  a  basin ;  set  it  in  a  cold  place  for  half 
an  hour;  pour  it  into  another  basin  free  from  sediment ;  and 
when  it  begins  to  congeal,  iill  your  mould :  when  wanted, 
dip  the  mould  into  lukewarm  water;  turn  it  out  on  a  dish, 
and  garnish  with  orange  or  lemon  cut  in  slices,  and  placed 
round. 

N,B.  A  few  grains  of  saffron  put  in  the  water  will  add 
much  to  its  appearance. 

V 

Udian  Creom.— (No.  48.) 

Rub  on  a  lump  of  suffar  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  scrape  it 
off  with  a  knife  into  a  deep  dish  or  china  bowl,  and  add  half 
a  gill  of  brandy,  two  ounces  and  a  half  of  sifted  sugar,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  pint  of  double  cream,  and  beat  it  up 
well  with  a  clean  whisk ;  in  the  meantime,  boil  an  ounce  of 
isinglass  in  a  gpdl  of  water  till  quite  dissolved ;  strain  it  to 
the  other  ingredients;  beat  it  some  time,  and  fill  your 
mould ;  and  when  cold  and  set  well,  dish  it  as  in  the  foregoing 
receipt. 

N.B.  The  above  may  be  flavoured  with  any  kind  of 
liqueur,  raspberry,  strawberry,  or  other  fruits,  coloured  with 
prepared  cochineal,  and  named  to  correspond  with  the 
flavour  given. 

%  Trj^.— (No.  49.) 

Mix  in  a  large  bowl  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  some  of  the  peel  grated  fine,  half  a 
^  ^11  of  brandy,  and  ditto  of  Lisbon  or  sweet  wine,  and  a 

i  pint  and  a  half  of  good  cream ;  whisk  the  whole  well,  and 

take  ofl"  the  froth  as  it  rises  with  a  skimmer,  and  put  it  on  a 
sieve ;  continue  to  whisk  it  till  you  have  enough  of  the  whip ; 
set  it  in  a  cold  place  to  drain  three  or  four  hours ;  then  lay  in 
a  deep  dish  six  or  eight  sponge  biscuits,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  ratafia,  two  ounces  of  Jordan  almonds  blanched  and  split, 
some  grated  nutmeg  and  lemon-peel,  currant  jelly  and  rasp- 
berry jam,  half  a  pmt  of  sweet  wine,  and  a  little  brandy; 
when  the  cakes  have  absorbed  the  liquor,  pour  over  about  a 
pint  of  custard,  made  rather  thicker  than  for  aQple>pie ;  and, 
when  wanted,  lay  on  lightly  plenty  of  the  Whip,  and  throw 
over  a  few  nonpareil  comfits. 


y 


WASTRY,  &(%  375 

*        ^  Whip  SyUabub.—iNo*  50.) 

Make  a  \irliip  as  in  the  last  receipt;  mix  with  a  pint  of 
cream,  half  a  pint  of  sweet  wine,  a  glass  of  brandy,  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  grated  nutmeg,  six  ounces  of  sifted  loaf  sugar: 
nearly  fill  the  custard-glasses  with  the  mixture,  and  lay  (Hi 
with  a  spoon  some  of  the  whip. 

OwntUly  BcukeU'-iSo.  51.) 

Dip  into  sugar  boiled  to  a  caramel  (See  No.  86)  small 
ratafias,  stick  &em  on  a  dish  in  what  form  you  please,  then 
take  ratafias  one  size  larger,  and  having  dipped  them  into 
the  sugar,  build  them  together  till  about  four  or  five  inches 
high ;  make  a  rim  of  York  drops  or  drageas  of  gum  paste, 
likewise  a  handful  of  su^  or  ratafia,  and  set  it  over  the 
basket ;  line  the  inside  with  wafer-paper,  arid  a  short  time 
before  it  is  wanted,  fill  it  with  a  mixture  the  same  as  for  trifle, 
and  upon  that  plenty  of  good  whip. 

Baked  Ckistard. — (No.  52.) 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  milk,  a  few  coriander  seeds,  a  little  cinna- 
mon and  lemon-peel ;  sweeten  with  four  ounces  of  loaf  sugar, 
and  mix  with  it  a  pint  of  cold  milk ;  beat  well  eight  eggs  for 
ten  minutes,  and  add  the  other  ingredients ;  pour  it  from  one 
pan  into  another  six  or  eight  times,  strain  it  through  a  sieve, 
and  let  it  stand  some  time ;  skim  off  the  froth  from  the  top,  fill 
'it  in  earthen  cups,  and  bake  them  immediately  in  a  hot  oven, 
give  them  a  good  colour ;  about  ten  minutes  will  do  them. 

Boiled  Custard. — (No.  53.) 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  milk,  five  minutes,  lemon-peel,  corianders, 
and  cinnamon,  a  small  quantity  of  each,  half  a  dozen  of  bitter 
almonds,  blanched  and  pounded,  and  four  ounces  of  loaf 
sugar:  mix  it  with  a  pint  of  cream,  the  yelks  of  ten  eggs, 
and  the  whites  of  six,  well  beaten ;  pass  it  through  a  ludr- 
sieve,  stir  it  with  a  whisk  over  a  slow  fire  till-  it  begins  to 
thicken,  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  continue  to  stir  it  till 
nearly  cold;  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  brandy,  fill  the  cups 
or  glasses,  and  grate  nutmeg  over. 

Almond  Ckutards.-^No.  54.) 

Blanch  and  pound  fine,  with  half  a  gill  of  rose  water,  six 
ounces  of  sweet,  and  half  an  ounce  of  bitter  sdmonds ;  boil  a 
pint  of  milk  as  No.  53 ;  sweeten  it  with  two  ounces  and  a 


k 


376  PMTBT,  &c. 

half  of  sugar;  rub  the  almondbi  through  afine  sieve*  with  a 
pint  of  cream ;  strain  the  milk  to  the  yelks  of  eight  emh  ftnd 
the  whites  of  three  well-beaten ;  sth*  it  over  a  iire  tilf  it  is  of 
a  ffood  thickness ;  take  it  off  the  fire,  an<[  stir  it  till  neaiiy 
cold,  to  Mevent  its  curdling. 

N.B.  The  above  may  be  baked  in  cups,  or  in  a  dirii,  with 
a  rim  of  puff  paste  put  round. 

Twdfli  CUks.— (No.  66.) 

Two  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  two  pounds  of  sifted  loaf  sugar, 
two  pounds  of  butter,  eighteen  eggs,  four  pounds  of  currants, 
one  half  pound  of  ahnonds  blanched  and  chopped,  one  half 
pound  of  citron,  one  pound  of  candied  orange  and  lemon* 
peel  cut  into  thin  slices,  a  large  nutmeg  grated  half  an  ounce 
of  ground  allspice;  around  cinnamon,  mace,  ginger,  and 
corianders,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  each,  and  a  giU  of  brandy. 

Put  the  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  in  a  warm  {dace,  and  work 
it  into  a  smooth  cream  with  the  hand,  and  mix  it  with  the 
sugar  and  spice  in  a  pan  (or  on  your  paste  board)  for  some 
time;  then  break  in  the  eefgs  by  degrees,  and  beat  it  at  least 
twenty  minutes ;  stir  in  the  brandy,  and  then  the  flour,  and 
work  it  a  litUe ;  add  the  fruit,  sweetmeats,  and  aJimonds,  and 
mix  all  together  lightly ;  have  ready «  hoop  cased  with  paper, 
on  a  bakii^r-plate ;  put  in  the  mixture,  smooth  it  on  tne  top 
with  your  hand,  dipped  in  milk;  put  the  pla^  on  another, 
with  sawdust  between,  to  prevent  the  bottom  from  colouring 
too  much :  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven*  four  hours  or  more,  ana 
when  neaiiy  cold,  ice  it  with  No.  84. 

This  mixture  would  make  a  handsome  cake,  full  twelve  or 
fourteen  indies  over. 

*  ThegaodiieMofaeateorbiieuitdaieadsmaeboiiUibeiiif  weDbaked;  great 
attention  ihouM  be  paid  to  Uie  dlSbrenl  acfrees  of  beat  of  the  oven :  be  sore  to  mve 
itof  agoodwMindbeatatfintf  t«beii,aftaiti  being  well  cleaned  out,  may  be  baked 
such  artleles  at  require  a  hot  oven,  aAer  wfaich  eaeb  as  are  diroeled  to  be  baked  in 
a  well-beated  or  moderate  oven ;  and,  biatly,  tboee  in  a  dow  soaking  or  cool  one. 
With  a  little  care  the  above  degrees  taiay  soon  be  known. 

In  making  batter  cakes,  snefa  as  Noe.  55^57,  or  61,  too  mvch  attention  cannot  be 
paid  to  have  the  batter  wdl  creamed :  for  should  It  be  made  too  warm,  it  woohfc 
cause  the  mixtare  to  be  the  same,  and  when  put  to  bake,  the  fhiit,  sweetmeats,  Jfcc. 
would,  In  that  event,  ftU  to  the  bottom. 

Vest  cakes  ahpuld  be  wcU  proved  before  put  into  the  oven,  as  they  will  prove 
but  little  afterward. 

In  making  biscuits  and  cakes  where  batter  is  not  used,  the  difltoent  oienailBdKNild 
be  kept  free  from  all  kinds  of  grease,  or  it  is  neit  to  ImmMsible  to  have  good  ones. 

In  buttering  the  insldes  of  cake-mouldy  the  butler  should  be  nicdv  darilled,  and 
when  nearly  cold,  laid  on  quite  siopoth,  with  a  small  brash  kept  for  mat  puipose. 

Sugar  and  flour  should  be  quite  dry,  and  a  drum  sieve  is  reoMnflwnded  to  the 
ailgar.  The  oU  way  of  beating  Uie  yelks  and  whbes  of  egnaeparate  (eieatta 
very  ftw  cases),  is  not  only  useless,  but  a  waate  of  time.  Th^  should  be  1v«t^ 
Incorporated  with  the  other  ingredients,  and,  in  somje  instaacea,  they  cuiioC  be  beat  A 
too  aiuch. 


nuMTRr,  &c.  377 

069."-If  made  in  cold  wea^r,  the  eggs  should  be  broken 
into  a  pan,  and  set  into  another  filled  with  hot  water;  like- 
wise the  Crait,  sweetmeats,  and  almonds,  laid  in  a  warm  place,, 
otherwise  it  may  chill  the  butter,  and  cause  the  cake  to  be 
heavy. 

Bride,  or  Wedding  Coibe.— (No.  56.) 

The  only  difference  usually  made  in  these  cakes  is,  the 
addition  of  one  pound  of  raisins,  stoned  and  mixed  with  the 
other  fruit. 

Plain  Pound  CWbe.— (No.  67.) 

Cream,  as  in  No.  55,  one  pound  of  butter,  said  work  it  well 
together  with  one  pound  of  sifted  sugar  till  quite  smooth; 
beat  up  nine  eggs,  and  put  them  by  degrees  to  the  butter,  and 
beat  them  for  twenty  minutes ;  mix  in  lightly  one  pound  of 
flour ;  put  the  whole  mto  a  hoop,  cased  with  paper,  on  a  baking- 
plate,  and  bake  it  about  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

An  oimce  of  caraway-seeds  added  to  the  above,  will  make 
what  is  termed  a  rich  seed  cake. 

Plwn  Pound  Cla*«.— (No.  58.) 

Make  a  cake  as  No.  57,  and  when  you  have  beaten  it,  mix  in 
lightly  half  a  pound  of  currants,  two  ounces  of  orange,  and 
two  ounces  of  candied  lemon-peel  cut  small,  and  half  a  nut- 
meg grated. 

Common  Seed  Cake.-^(So.  59.) 

Sift  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,,  with  half  a  pound  of 
good  Lisbon  or  loaf  sugar,  pounded  into  a  pan  or  bowl ;  make 
a  cavity  in  the  centre,  and  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  lukewarm 
milk,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  thick  yest ;  mix  the  milk  and 
yest  with  enough  flour  to  make  it  as  thick  as  cream  (this  is 
called  setting  a  sponge) ;  set  it  by  in  a  warm  place  tor  one 
hour;  in  the  meantime,  melt  to  an  oil  half  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter,  and  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients,  with  one  ounce 
of  caraway-seeds,  and  Plough  of  milk  to  make  it  of  a  mid- 
dling stiffiiess ;  line  a  hoop  with  paper,  well  nibbed  over  with 
butter;  put  in  the  mixture;  set  it  some  time  to  prove  in  a 
stove,  or  before  the  fire,  and  bake  it  on  a  plate  about  an  hour, 
is  rather  a  hot  oven;  when  done,  rub  the  top  over  with  a 
paste-brush  dipped  In  milk. 

Ii2 


RU^  Yest  Cake.-^^io.  60.) 

Set  a  0ponge  as  in  the  foreeoing  receipt,  with  the  same 
proportioni  of  flour,  sug^ar,  m&t  and  yest :  when  it  has  lain 
some  time,  mix  it  with  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter 
oiled*  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of 
candied  lemon  and  orange-peel  cut  fine,  grated  nutmeg, 
ground  allspice  and  cinnamon,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
each:  case  a  hoop  as  stated  No.  59, bake  it  in  a  good-heated 
oven  one  hour  and  a  half. 

N.B.  It  may  be  iced  with  No.  84,  and  ornamented  as  a 
twelfth  cake. 

Queen,  or  HeaH  Gb*m.— (No.  61.) 

One  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  eig'ht 
oggs,  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour,  two  ounces  of  cur- 
rants, and  half  a  nutmeg  grated. 

Cream  the  butter  as  at  No.  55,  and  mix  it  well  with  the 
sugar  and  spice,  then  put  in  half  the  eggs  and  beat  it  ten 
minutes,  and  the  remainder  of  the  eggs,  and  work  it  ten 
minutes  longer,  stir  in  the  flour  lightly,  and  the  currants 
afterward,  then  take  small  tin  pans  of  any  shape  (hearts 
the  most  usual),  rub  the  inside  of  each  with  butter,  fill  and 
bake  them  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  on  a  sheet  of 
matted  wire,  or  on  a  bakiitt^-plate ;  "when  done,  remove  them 
as  early  as  possible  from  ue  pans. 

Queen's  Drops.^No,  62.) 

Leave  out  four  ounces  of  flour  from  the  last  receipt,  and 
add  two  ounces  more  of  currants,  and  two  ounces  of  candied 
peel  cut  small ;  work  it  the  same  as  in  the  last  receipt,  and 
when  ready  put  the  measure  into  a  biscuit-funnel,*  and  lay 
them  out  in  drops  about  the  size  of  half  a  crown,  on  white 
paper ;  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven,  and,  when  nearly  cold,  take 
them  from  the  paper. 

Shrewsbufy  OaA:e».— (No.  63.) 

Rub  well  together  one  pound  of  pounded  sugar,  one  pou^d 
of  fresh  butter,  and  one  pound  and  a  luilf  of  sifted  flour,  mix 

*  Take  fine  brown  Holland,  and  make  a  bag  in  the  form  of  a  cone,  aboQt  five 
incbCB  over  at  tbe  top.  Cut  a  nnall  hole  at  the  aottom,  and  tie  in  a  amaU  pipe  of  a 
Ujp^ring  form,  about  two  inches  long ;  and  the  bore  muat  be  laige  or  amall,  tecfoA- 
ing  to  ifie  size  of  tbe  biscuits  or  cakes  to  be  made.  Wtien  the  various  mixtures  are 
put  in^^Iay  the  pipe  close  to  tbe  paper,  and  preas  It  oat  in  rows. 

Some  use  a  bullock's  bladder  for  the  purpose. 


7A8TK7,  &(C.  379 

it  into  a  paste,  with  half  a  gill  of  milk  or  cream,  and  one 
egg,  let  it  lie  half  an  hour,  roll  it  out  thin,  cut  it  out  into 
small  cakes  with  a  tin  cutter,  about  three  inches  over,  and 
bake  them  on  a  clean  baking-plate  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Banbury  Cakes.— (So.  64.) 

Set  a  sponge  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  thick  yest,  a 
gill  of  warm  milk,  and  a  pound  of  flour ;  when  it  has  worked 
a  little,  mix  with  it  half  a  pound  of  currants,  washed  and 
picked,  half  a  pound  of  candied  orange  and  lemon  peel  cut 
small,  one  ounce  of  spice,  such  as  ground  cinnamon,  allspice, 
ginger,  and  grated  nutmeg:  mix  the  whole  together  with 
naif  a  pound  of  honey ;  roll  out  puff  paste  (No.  1,)  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  into  roimds  with  a  cutter,  about  four 
inches  over,  lay  on  each  with  a  spoon  a  small  quantity  of  the 
mixture ;  close  it  round  with  the  fingers  in  the  form  of  an 
oval ;  place  the  join  underneath ;  pre^s  it  flat  with  the  hand ; 
sift  sugar  over  it,  and  bake  them  on  a  plate  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  of  a  light  colour. 

Bath  Buns. — (No.  65.) 

Rub  together  with  the  hand  one  pound  of  fine  flour,  and 
half  a  pound  of  butter ;  beat  six  eggs,  and  add  them  to  the 
flour,  &c.  with  a  table-spoonful  of  good  yest ;  mix  them  all 
together,  with  about  half  a  tea-<;upful  of  milk ;  set  it  in  a 
warm  place  for  an  hour,  then  mix  in  six  ounces  of  sifted 
sugar,  and  a  few  caraway  seeds ;  mould  them  into  buns  with 
a  table-spoon,  on  a  clean  baking-plate ;  throw  six  or  eight 
caraway  conifits  on  each,  and  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven 
about  ten  minutes.  This  quantity  should  make  about 
eighteen. 

Sponge  Biscuits. — (No.  66.) 

Break  into  a  round-bottomed  preserving-pan*  nine  good- 
sized  eggs,  with  one  pound  of  sifted  loaf  sugar,  and  some 
grated  lemon-peel ;  set  the  pan  over  a  very  slow  fire,  and 
whisk  it  till  quite  warm  (but  not  too  hot  to  set  the  eggs) ; 
remove,  the  pan  from  the  fire,  and  whisk  it  till  cold,  which 
may  be  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  stir  in  the  flour  lightly  with 
a  spattle ;  previous  to  which,  prepare  the  sponge  frame  as 
follows:— Wipe  them  well  out  with  a  clean  cloth,  rub  the 
insides  with  a  brush  dipped  in  butter,  which  has  been  cla- 

*  A  wide-mouthed  eartben  pan,  made  quite  bot  in  tbe  oven,  or  oo  a  fire,  will 
be  a  gogd  ■ubetitute. 


380  pjkanv,  tec. 


and  flifl  loaf  sugar  cnrer;  fill  the  frames  witih  the  mix- 
tme;  throw  poanded  aufar  over;  bake  them  §re  mhnmRB  in 
ahriakoven:  when  done,  take  them  from  the  fimaes,  aoid  lay 
them  on  a  sieve. 

Savoy  Cakty  er  Spongt  Cake  in  a  Moudd* — (No.  67.) 

Take  nine  eggs,  their  weight  of  sugar,  and  six  of  floor, 
some  grated  lemon,  or  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  lemon,  and 
half  a  gill  of  orange-flower  water,  work  them  as  in  the  last 
receipt;  pat  in  the  orange-flower  water  when  you  take  it 
from  the  fire ;  be  very  careful  the  mould  is  quite  dry ;  rub  it 
adlover  the  inside  with  butter;  put  some  pounded  sugar 
round  die  mould  vfon  the  butter,  and  shake  it  well  to  set  it 
out  of  tiie  crevices :  tie  a  slip  of  paper  round  the  mould;  fill 
it  three  parts  fiiU  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  it  one  hour  in  a 
slack  oven ;  when  done,  let  it  stand  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
take  it  from  the  mould,  which  may  be  done  by  shaking  it 
a  little. 

BiiCwU  Drops.— (No.  68.) 

Beat  well  together  in  a  pan  one  pound  of  sifted  sugar  with 
eight  eggs  for  twenty  minutes;  &en  add  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  caraway  seeds,  and  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
flour:  lay  wafer-paper  on  a  baking-jdate,  put  the  mixture 
into  a  biscuit4unnel,  and  drop  it  out  on  the  paper  about  the 
size  of  half  a  crown;  sift  sugar  over,  and  bake  them  in  a 
hot  oven. 

Savoy  Bt!ietii<9.<*-(No.  69. 

To  be  made  as  drop  biscuits,  omitting  the  caraways,  and 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour:  put  it  into  the  biscuit-ftinnel, 
and  lay  it  out  about  the  length  and  sixe  of  your  finger,  on 
common  shop  paper;  strew  sugar  over,  and  bake  them  in  a 
hot  oven;  wnen  cold,  wet  the  backs  of  the  paper  ¥rith  a 
paste-brush  and  water :  when  they  have  lain  some  time,  take 
them  carefully  off,  and  place  them  back  to  back. 

haUan  Maearoom* — (No.  70.) 

Take  one  pound  of  Y alentia  or  Jordan  almonds,  blanehe^i 
pound  them  quite  fine  with  the  whites  of  four  eggs ;  add  two 
pounds  and  a  half  of  sifted  loaf  sugar,  and  mb  them  wdl 
together  with  the  pestle ;  put  in  by  degrees  about  ten  or 
eleven  more  whites,  working  them  well  as  you  put  them  in; 


PASTBT,  &C«  581 

I         but  the  best  criteiion  to  go  by  in  tr3dnff  their  lightness  is  to 

t         bake  one  or  two,  and  if  ^ou  find  themneayy,  put  one  or  two 

more  whites;  put  the  mixture  into  a  biscuit-funnel,  and  lay 

them  out  on  wafer-paper,  in  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  small 

walnut,  having  ready  about  two  ounces  of  blanched  and  dry 

almonds  cut  into  shps,  put  three  or  four  pieces  on  each,  and 

'         bake  them  on  wires,  or  a  baking-plate,  in  a  slow  oven. 

I  0&9.— Almonds  should  be  blanched  and  dried  gradually  two 

or  three  days  before  they  are  used,  by  which  means  they  will 

'  work  much,  better,  and  where  large  quantities  are  use^  it  is 

I  advised  to  grind  them  in  a  mill  provided  for  that  purpose. 

'  Ratafia  Cbik«5.— (No-  71.) 

To  half  a  potuid  of  blanched  bitter,  and  half  a  pound  of 
sweet,  almonds,  put  the  whites  of  four  eggs ;  beat  them  quite 
fine  in  a  mortar,  and  stir  in  two  pounds  and  a  quarter  of  loaf 
sugar,  pounded  and  sifted ;  rub  them  well  together  with  the 
wmtes  (by  degrees)  of  nine  eggs  (try  their  lightness  as  in 
the  last  receipt) ;  lay  them  out  from  the  biscuit-funnel  on 
cartridge-paper,  in  (urops  about  the  size  of  a  shilling,  and 
bake  them  m  a  middlmg-heated  oven,  of  a  light  brown 
-colour,  and  take  them  from  the  papers  as  soon  as  cold. 

N.B.  A  smaller  pipe  must  be  used  in  the  funnel  than  for 
other  articles. 

Almond  Spotige  Cake. — (No.  72.) 

Pound  in  a  mortar  one  pound  of  blanched  almonds  quite 
fine,  with  the  whites  of  three  eggs ;  then  put  in  one  pound  of 
sifted  loaf  sugar,  some  grated  lemon-peel,  and  the  yelks  of 
fifteen  eggs — ^workthem  well  together:  beat  up  to  a  solid 
froth  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  and  stir  them  into  the  other 
ingredients  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  dry  Hour : 
prepare  a  mould  as  at  No.  67;  put  in  the  mixture^  and  bake 
it  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven :  take  it  carefully  from  tiiie  mould, 
and  set  it  on  a  sieve. 

Raiqfia  Gofce.— >(No.  73.) 

To  be  made  as  above,  omitting  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sweet,  and  substituting  a  quarter  m  a  pound  of  bitter  atanonds. 

;  Diet  Bread  Qdte.^No.  74.) 

Boil,  in  half  a  pint  of  water^  one  pound  and  a  half  of  lump 
flug;ar;  have  ready  one  pint  of  eggs»  three  parts  yelks,  in  a 


988  PAflTBTy  dtC. 


put;  pour  in  the  flogw,  and  whisk  it  qnick  tin  cold,  or  about 
a  quarter  of  an  hour;  then  stir  in  two  pounds  of  sifted  ikmr; 
rase  the  inside  of  square  tins  with  white  paper;  fill  them 
three  parts  full ;  sift  a  little  sugar  oyer,  and  bake  it  in  a  iMrarm 
oven«  and  while  hot  remove  tli^m  from  the  moulds* 

Oroi^  Gingerbread. — (No.  75.) 

Sift  two  pounds  and  a  quarter  of  fine  flour,  and  add  to  it  a 
|)0und  and  three  quarters  of  treacle,  six  ounces  of  candied 
orange-peel  cut  small,  three  quarters  at  a  pound  of  moist 
MUgar,  one  ounce  of  g^und  ginger,  and  one  ounce  of  allspice : 
melt  to  an  oil  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter;  mix  the 
whole  well  together,  and  lay  it  by  for  twelve  hours ;  roll  it 
out  with  as  little  flour  as  possible,  about  half  an  inch  thick ; 
rut  it  into  pieces  three  inches  long  and  two  wide ;  mark  them 
m  the  form  of  checkers  with  the  back  of  a  knife ;  put  them 
on  a  baking-plate  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart ;  rub  them 
over  with  a  brush  dipped  into  the  yelk  of  an  egg  beat  up 
with  a  tea-cupful  of  inilk ;  bake  it  m  a  cool  oven  about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour :  when  done,  wash  them  slightly  over 
again,  divide  the  pieces  with  a  knife  (as  in  baking  they  will 
run  together). 

Gingerbread  JWrf*.— vNo.  76.) 

• 

To  two  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  put  two  pounds  of  treacle, 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  moist  sugar,  half  a  pound  of 
randied  orange-peel  cut  small,  one  ounce  and  a  half  of 
ground  ginger,  one  ounce  of  ground  caraways,  and  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  oiled:  mix  all  well  together, 
and  set  it  by  some  time ;  then  roll  it  out  in  pieces  about  the 
Hize  of  a  small  walnut ;  lay  them  in  rows  on  a  baking-plate ; 
dress  them  flat  with  the  hand,  and  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven 
about  ten  minutes. 

Plain  Bimf.--(No.  77.) 

To  four  pounds  of  sifted  flour  put  one  pound  of  ^ood  moist 
sugar;  make  a  cavity  in  the  centre,  and  stir  in  a  gill  of  good 
yest,  a  pint  of  lukewarm  milk,  with  enough  of  me  flour  to 
make  it  the  thickness  of  cream ;  cover  it  over,  and  let  it  lie 
two  hours ;  then  melt  to  an  oil  (but  not  hot^  one  pound  of 
butter,  stir  it  into  the  other  ingredients,  witn  enough  warm 
milk  to  make  it  a  soft  paste ;  throw  a  little  flour  over,  and  let 
them  lie  an  hour ;  have  ready  a  baking-platter  rubbed  over 
with  butter ;  mould  with  the  hand  the  dough  into  buns,  about 


the  size  of  a  large  egg ;  lay  them  in  rows  full  three  inches 
'  *  apart ;  set  them  in  a  warm  place  for  half  an  hour,  or  till  they 
(  have  risen  to  double  their  size ;  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven  of  a 
I  good  colour,  and  wash  them  over  with  a  brush  dipped  into 
I        milk  when  drawn  from  the  oven. 

Cross  Buns. — (No.  78.) 

To  the  above  mixture  put  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  ground 
i  allspice,  cinnamon,  and  mace,  mixed ;  and  when  half  proved, 
I  press  the  form  of  a  cross  with  a  tin  mould  (made  for  the  pur- 
i  -      pose)  in  the  centre,  and  proceed  as  above. 

I  l^ed  Bttiw.— (No.  79.) 

,  Take  two  pounds  of  plain  bun  dough  (No.  77),  and  ixiix  in 

^  one  ounce  of  caraway  seeds;  butter  the  insides  of  small 
'  tart-pans ;  mould  the  dough  into  buns,  and  put  one  in  each 
'  pan;  set  them  to  rise  in  a  warm  place ;  and  when  sufficiently 
'  proved,  ice  them  with  the  white  of  an  egg  beat  to  a  froth, ^and 
laid  on  with  a  paste-brush ;  some  pdunded  sugar  upon  that, 
and  dissolve  it  with  water  splashed'  from  the  brush:  bake 
I         them  in  a  warm  oven  about  ten  minutes. 

Plum  5ttns.— (No.  80.) 

To  two  pounds  of  No.  77  mixture,  put  half  a  pound  of  cur- 
rants, a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  candied  orange-peel  cut  into 
I  small  pieces,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  half  an  ounce  of  mixed 

'  spice,  such  as  allspice,  cinnamon,  &c. :  mould  them  into 

I         buns ;  jag  them  round  the  edge  with  a  knife,  and  proceed  as 
i         with  plain  buns.  No.  77. 

Orgeat.-^{So.  81.) 

\  Pound  very  fine  one  pound  of  Jordan,  and  one  ounce  of 

bitter,  almonds,  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  half  a  gill  of  orange- 
flower  water  to  keep  them  from  oiling ;  then  mix  with  them 
one  pint  of  rose  and  one  pint  of  spring-water ;  rub  it  through 
a  tamis  cloth  or  lawn  sieve,  till  the  almonds  are  quite  diy, 
I  which  will  reduce  the  quantity  to  about  a  quart :  have  ready 

I  three  pints  of  clarified  suffar  or  water,  and  boil  it  to  a  crack 

I  (which  may  be  known  by  dipping  your  fingers  into  the  sugar, 

I  and  then  into  cold  water ;  and  if  you  find  the  sugar  to  crack 

I  in  moving  your  finger,  it  has  boiled  enough);  put  in  the 

almonds ;  boil  it  one  minute,  and  when  cold  put  it  into  small 
bottles  close  corked;  a  table-spoonful  of  which  will  be  suffi- 
cient for  a  tumbler  of  water:  shsdce  the  bottle  before  using. 


384  p^iRT,  Ate: 

0&f.*lf  IhetnrfMt  if  for  present  use,  the  ahnondsiaay  be 
povnded  m  above,  and  mixed  with  one  quart  of  wat«r»  one 
mart  of  milk,  a  pint  of  ciqpittaire  or  clarified  augiuv  nibbed 
tnroagh  a  tamie  or  fine  sieve,  and  pat  into  decanters  for  use. 

« 
Bak€d  Pears.— (No.  83.) 

Take  twelve  large  baking  pears ;  pare  and  cut  them  into 
halves,  leaving  the  stem  about  half  an  inch  long;  take  out 
the  core  with  the  point  of  a  knife,  and  place  them  ckiae  toge- 
ther in  a  block-tin  saucepan,  the  inside  of  wbieh  is  qtdte 
bright,  with  the  cover  to  fit  quite  close ;  put  to  them  the  rind 
of  a  lemon  cut  thin,  with  half  its  luice,  a  small  stick  of  cin- 
namon, and  twenty  grains  of  allspice;  cover  them  with 
spring-water,  and  aQow  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar  to  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  water:  cover  them  up  close,  and  ^ke  them  for 
six  hours  in  a  very  slow  oven :  they  will  be  quite  tender,  and 
of  a  bright  colour. 

Obi. — Prepared  cochineal  is  generally  used  for  colouring 
the  pears ;  but  if  the  above  is  strictly  attended  to^  it  wiU  be 
found  to  answer  best. 

To  dry  .%)(et.— (No.  83.) 

Take  bifllns,  or  orange  or  lemon-pippins;  the  former 
are  the  beet;  choose  the  clearest  rinds,  and  without  any 
blemishes ;  lay  them  on  clean  straw  on  a  baking- wire ;  cover 
them  well  with  more  straw;  set  them  into  a  slow  oven;  let 
them  remain  for  four  or  five  hours ;  draw  them  out  and  rub 
them  in  your  hands,  and  press  them  very  gently,  otherwise 
you  will  burst  the  skins ;  return  them  into  the  oven  for  about 
an  hour ;  press  them  again ;  when  cold,  if  they  look  dry,  rub 
them  over  with  a  little  clarified  sugar. 

Obs.'-By  being  put  into  the  oven  four  or  five  times,  press- 
ing them  between  each  time,  they  may  be  brought  as  fiat, 
and  eat  as  well,  as  the  dried  bifiGbas  from  Norfolk* 

Icing,  fir  T^odfth  or  Bride  Cake.-^'So.  84.) 

Take  one  pound  of  doulde-refined  sugar,  pounded  and 
sifted  through  a  lawn  sieve;  putvinto  a  pan  quite  free  from 
grease ;  hreSk  in  tito  whites  of  six  eggs,  and  as  much  powder 
blue  as  wiH  lie  on  a  sixpence;  beat  it  w^  with  aspattle  for 
ten  minutes;  then  sciueease  in  the  Juice  of  a  lemon,  and  beat 
it  tiB  it  becomes  thick  and  transpatent.  Bet  the  cake  yon 
intend  to  ice  in  an  oven  or  wann^ace  five  minutes;  then 
spread  over  the  top  and  sides  with  me  mixture  as  smooth  as 


}xyS8ible.  If  for  a  wed^&ig  cake  only,  plain  ice  it ;  if  for  a 
twelfth  cake,  oii^ament  it  with  gum  pastes  or  fancy  articles 
of  any  description. 

Ohs.T-A  good  twelfth  cake,  not  baked  too  much,  and  kept 
in  a  cool  dr^  place,  wiB  retain  its  moisture  and  eat  well,  if 
twelve  months  old. 

Tb  bml  Sugar  to  Ckiraimd.^No.  S^) 

Break  mto  a  small  copper  or  brass  pan  one  pound  of  refined 
SU^ ;  put  in  a  gill  of  sprine-water ;  set  it  on  a  fire ;  when  it 
boiU  skim  it  quite  clean,  and  let  it  boil  quick,  till  it  comes  to  the 
djegree  called  crack ;  which  may  be  known  by  dipping  a  tea- 
spoon or  skewer  into  the  sugar,  and  letting  it  drop  to  the  bottom 
of  a  pan  of  cold  water ;  and  if  it  remains  hard,  it  has  attained 
thiat  degree :  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  let  it 
remain  (me  minute  longer  on  the  fire ;  then  set  the  pan  into 
smother  of  c(dd  water :  have  ready  moulds  of  any  sha^ ;  rub 
them  over  with  sweet  o^ ;  dip  a  spoon  or  fork  into  the  sugar, 
and.ihrow  it  over  the  mould  in  fine  threads,  till  it  is  quite 
covered :  make  a  small  handle  of  caramel,  or  stick  on  two  or 
three  small  gmn  paste  rings,  by  way  of  ornament,  and  place 
it  over  snu^l  pastry  of  any  description. 

A  CroqttaiUe  of  Paste* — (No.  86.) 

Roll  out  paste,  as  No.  8,  about  the  eighth  of  an  inch  thick ; 
rub  over  a  plain  mould  with  a  little  fresh  butter ;  lay  on  the 
pastevery  even,  and  equally  thin  on  both  isides ;  pare  it  round 
the  rim ;  then  with  a  smaU  penknife  cut  out  smaJl  pieces,  as 
fancy  may  direct,  such  as  diamonds,  stars,  circles,  sprigs, 
&c. ;  or  use  a  small  tin  gutter  of  any  shape :  let  it  lie  to  Sty 
some  time,  and  hake  it  a  few  minutes  in  a  slack  oven,  of  a 
light  colour:  remove  it  from  the  mould,  and  place  it  over  a 
tart,  or  any  other  dish  of  small  pastoy. 

Der^  or  ShoH  CUbef.— (No.  87.) 

Rub  in  with  the  hand  oncvpound  of  butter  into  two  pounds 
of  sifted  flour ;  put  one  pound  of  currants,  one  pound  of  good 
moist  sugar,  ana  one  egg;  mix  all  together  with  half  a  pint 
of  milk :  roll  it  out  thin,  and  cut  them  into  round  cakes  with 
acttttor;  lay  them  on  a  clean  baking-plate,  ttidput  them  into 
a  middling-healed  oven  for  about  five  minutes. 

Kk 


386  TAsfmt  &c. 

£;gg  imd  Ham  Patticf.— (No.  88.) 

Cut  a  tliee  of  Inpad  two  inches  thick,  from  the  most  s<^<f 
part  of  a  stale  quartern  loaf:  have  ready  a  tin  romid  cotter, 
two  inches  diameter ;  cat  out  four  or  five  pieces,  then  take  a 
cotter  two  sizes  smaller,  press  it  nearly  through  the  larger 
pieces,  then  remove  with  a  small  knife  the  bread  from  the 
mner  circle:  haveready  a  large  stew-pan  fun  of  boiling  lard; 
fry  them  of  a  lisht-brown  colour,  drain  them  dry  with  a  ctean 
doth,  and  set  them  by  till  wanted;  then  take  half  a  poun4 
of  lean  ham,  mince  it  small ;  add  to  it  a  gill  of  good  brown 
sauce ;  stir  it  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes,  and  put  a  small 
quantity  of  Cayenne  pepper  and  lemon-juice :  fill  the  shajies 
with  the  mixture,  and  lay  a  poached  egg  \No.  546)  upon  each. 

Zkumoih  or  other  Plum  C%eese.^No.  89.) 

Take  damsons  that  have  been  preserved  without  sugar; 
pass  them  through  a  sieve,  to  take  put  the  skins  and  atones. 
To  every  pound  of  pulp  of  fruit  put  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar, 
broke  small ;  boil  them  together  till  it  becomes  quite  stiff; 
poupr  it  into  four  common-sized  dinner  plates,  rubbed  witii  a 
little  sweet  oil ;  put  it  into  a  warm  place  to  dry,  and  when 
quite  firm,  take  it  from  the  plate,  and  cut  it  into  any  e^ape 
you  choose. 

N.B.  Damson  cheese  is  generally  used  in  desserts* 

Barley  Sii^'ar.— (No.  90.)^ 

Clarify,  as  No.  475,  three  pounds  of  refined  sugar;  bofl it 
to  the  degree  of  cradced  (which  may  be  ascertained  by  dip- 
ping a  spoon  into  the  si^prar,  and  then  instantly  into  cold 
water,  and  if  it  appears  bnttle,  it  is  boiled  enough) ;  squeeze 
in  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  the  juice,  and  four  drops  of  essence 
of  lemon,  and  let  it  boil  up  once  or  twice,  and  set  it  by  a  few 
minutes :  have  ready  a  marble  slab,  or  smooth  stone,  rubbed 
over  with  sweet  oil ;  pour  over  the  sugar ;  cut  it  into  long 
stripes  with  a  large  pair  of  scissors ;  twist  it  a  little,  and 
when  cold,  keep  it  from  the  air  in  tin  boxes  or  canisters. 

N.B.  A  few  drops  of  essence  of  ginger,  instead  of  lemon, 
will  make  what  is  called  ginger  barley  sugar. 

Barley  Sugar  Drops. — (No.  91.) 

To  be  made  as  the  last  receipt.  Have  ready,  by  the  time 
the  sugar  is  boiled  sufficiently,  a  large  sheet  of  paper,  with  a 
smooth  layer  of  sifted  loaf  siigar  on  it ;  put  the  boiled  sugar 


PASTRY,   dtC.  S87 

into  aladle  that  lias  a  fine  lip;  pour  it  out,  in  drops  not  larger 
than  a  shilling:,  oh  tathe  sifted  sugar;  when  cold,  fold  them 
up  separately,  in  white  paper. 

N.B»  Some  use  an  oded  marble  slab  instead  of  the  sifted 
sugar. 

Ra^berry  /am.— ^(No.  92.) 

Rub  fresh-gathered  raspberries,  taken  on  a  dry  day,  through 
a  wicker  sieve;  to  one  pint  of  the  pul^  put  one  pound  of 
loaf  sugar,  broke  small ;  put.  it  into  a  preserving-pan  over  a 
brisk  fire ;  when  it  begins  to  boil,  skun  it  well,  and  stir  tt 
twenty  minutes ;  put  into  small  pots ;  cut  white  paper  to  the 
size  of  the  top  of  the  pot ;  dip  them  in  brandy,  and  put  them 
over  the  jam  when  cold,  with  a  double  paper  tied  over  the  pot. 

Strawberry  jam  is  made  the  same  way,  and  the  scarlets 
are  most  proper  for  that  purpose. 

Apricotf  or  any  Plum  Jam. — (No.  93.) 

After  taking  away  the  stones  from  the  apricots,  and  cut- 
ting out  any  blemishes  they  may  have ;  put  them  over  a  slow 
fire,  in  a  clean  stew-psoi,  with  half  a  pint  of  water;  when 
scalded,  rub  them  through  a  hair-sieve :  to  ever^r  pound  of 
pulp  put  one  pound  of  sifted  loaf-sugar ;  put  it  into  a  pre- 
serving-pan over  a  brisk  fire,  and  when  it  boils  skim  it  well, 
and  throw  in  the  kernels  of  the  apricots,  and  half  an  oimce 
of  bitter  almonds,  blanched;  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  fast, 
and  stirring  it  all  the  time ;  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  fill 
it  into  pots,  and  cover  them  as  at  No.  93. 

N.B.  Green  gages  or  plums  may  be  done  in  the  same  way, 
omitting  the  kernels  or  almonds. 

Lemon  C%^*.— (No.  94.) 

Take  lar^  smooth-rinded  Malaga  lemons ;  race  or  cut  off 
their  peel  mto  chips  with  a  smaU  knife  (this  will  require 
some  practice  to  do  it  properly) ;  throw  them  into  salt  and 
water  till  next  day ;  have  ready  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  throw 
them  in  and  boil  them  tender.  Drain  them  well :  after  having 
lain  some  time  in  water  to  cool,  put  them  in  an  earthen  pan, 
pour  over  enough  boiling  clarified  sug[ar  to  cover  them,  and 
then  let  them  lie  two  days ;  then  strain  the  syrup,  put  more 
sugar,  and  reduce  it  by  boiling  till  the  syrup  is  quite  thick ; 
put  in  the  chips,  and  sinuner  them  a  few  minutes,  and  set 
them  by  for  two  days :  repeat  it  once  more ;  let  them  be  two 
days  longer,  and  they  will  be  fit  to  candy,  which  must  be 


383  PASTRY,  &C. 

done  as  follows :  take  four  pints  of  clarified  sugaTf  which  will 
be  sufficient  for  six  pounds  of  chips,  boil  it  to  the  degree  of 
hham  (which  may  be  known  by  dipping  the  skinuner  into  the 
sugar,  and  blowing  strongljr  throng  the  holes  of  it ;  if  little 
blttlders  appear,  it  has  attained  tlmt  degree) ;  and  when  the 
chips  are  tnoroij^ghly  drained  and  wiped  on  a  clean  cloth,  put 
them  into  the  syrup,  stirring  them  about  with  Ihe  skimmer 
tin  you  see  the  sugar  become  white^  then  take  them  out  with 
two  forks ;  shake  them  lightly  into  a  wure  sieve,' and  set  them 
into  a  stove,  or  in  a  warm  place  to  dry. 
N.B.  Orange  chips  are  done  in  the  same  way. 

Dried  Ourriei. — (No.  95.) 

Take  large  Kentish  cherries,  not  too  ripe ;  pick  off  the 
stalks,  and  take  out  the  stones  with  a  quill,  ciit  nearly  as  for 
a  pen :  to  three  pounds  of  which  take  three  pounds  or  pints 
of  clarified  sugar — (see  No.  475,)  boil  it  to  the  degree  of 
blown  (for  which  see  last  receipt);  put  in  the  cherries,  give 
them  a  boil,  and  set  them  by  in  an  earthen  pan  till  the  next 
day ;  then  strain  the  sjrrup,  add  more  sugar,  and  boil  it  of  a 
good  consistence;  put  the  cherries  in,  and  boil  them  fire 
minutes,  and  set  them  by  another  day :  repeat  the  boiling* 
two  more  days,  and  when  wanted,  drain  them  some  time, 
and  lay  them  on  wire  sieves  to  dry  in  a  stove,  or  nearly  ccAd 
oven. 

Grten  Gages  preserved  in  Syrup. — (No.  96.) 

Take  the  e^ges  when  nearly  ripe ;  cut  the  stalks  about 
half  an  inch  from  the  fruit ;  put  them  into  cold  water,  with  a 
lumpof  alum  about  the  size  of  a  walnut;  and  set  them  on  a  dow 
fire  till  they  come  to  a  simmer :  take  them  from  the  ^^  and 
put  them  into  cold  water;  dra^n,  and  pack  them  close  into  a 
preserving-pan ;  pour  over  them  enough  clarified  sugar  to 
cover  them ;  simmer  them  two  or  three  minutes ;  set  them 
by  in  an  earthen  pan  till  next  day,  when  drain  the  gages,  and 
boil  the  syrup  with  more  sugar,  till  quite  thick ;  put  in  the 
ffages,  and  simmer  them  three  minutes  more,  and  repeat  it 
for  two  days ;  then  boll  clarified  sugar  to  a  blow,  as  at  No. 
94,  place  the  gages  into  glasses,  and  pour  the  syrup  over, 
and,  when  cold,  tie  over  a  bladder,  and  upon  that  a  leather ; 
and  should  you  want  any  for  drying,  drain  and  dry  them  on  a 
wire  sieve  in  a  stove  or  slow  oven. 
.    Apricbts  or  egg  plum?  may  be  done  in  the  same  way. 


PASTRY,  d&C.  389 

To  preserve  CKnger. — (No.  97.) 

Take  green  gingery  pare  it  neatly  with  a  sharp  knife; 
throw  it  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  as  it  is  pared,  to  keep  it 
white ;  when  you  have  sufficient,  hoil  it  till  tender,  changfuig 
the  water  three  times;  each  time  put  it  into  cold  water  to 
.take  out  the  heat  or  spirit  of  the  ginger;  when  tender,  throw 
it  into  cold  water :  for  seven  pounds  of  ginger,  clarify  eight 
pounds  of  refined  sugar,  see  No.  475 ;  When  cold,  drain  the 
ginger,  and  put  it  in  an  earthen  pan,  with,  enough  of  the 
sugar,  cold,  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  stand  two  days ;  then  pour 
the  syrup  from  the  ginffer  ta  the  remainder  of  the  sugar ; 
boil  it  some  time,  and  when  cold,  pour  it  on  the  ginger  agaiUt 
and  set  it  by  three  diays  at  least.  Then  take  the  syrup  from 
the  ginger ;  boil  it,  and  put  it  hot  over  the  ginger ;  proceed  in 
this  way  till  you  find  the  sugar  has  entered  the  ginger,  boiling 
the  S3nrup,  and  skimming  off  the  scum  that  rises  each  time, 
until  the  syrup  becomes  rich  as  well  as  the  ginger. 

06*.— If  you  put  the  syrup  on  hot  at  first,  or  if  too  rich,  the 
ginger  will  shrink,  and  not  take  the  sugar. 

N.B.  When  green  ginger  is  not  to  be  procured,  take  lar^e 
races  of  Jamaica  ginger  boiled  several  times  in  water  tdi 
tender,  pare  neatly^  and  proceed  as  above. 

To  preserve  Cucumbers,^~{So.  98.) 

Take  large  and  fresh-gathered  cucumbers ;  split  them  down 
and  take  out  all  the  se^ ;  lay  them  in  salt  and  water  that 
will  bear  an  egg^  three  days ;  set  them  on  a  fire  with  cold 
water,  and  a  small  lump  of  alum,  and  boQ  them  a  few 
minutes,  or  till  tender;  drain  them,  and  pour  on  them  a  thin 
S3mip;  let  them  lie  two  days;  boil  the  syrup  again,  and  put 
it  over  the  cucumbers ;  repeat  it  twice  more ;  then  have  ready 
some  fresh  clarified  sugar,  boiled  to  a  blow  (see  No.  94) ; 
put  in  the  cucumbers,  and  simmer  it  five  minutes ;  set  it  by 
till  next  day;  boil  tiie  syrup  and  cucumbers  again,  and  set 
them  in  glasses  for  use. 

Preserved  Fruity  without  iSii^ar.-— (No.  99.) 

Take  damsons  when  not  too  ripe ;  pick  off  the  stalks,  and 
put  them  into  wide-mouthed  fflass  bottles,  taking  care  not  to 
put  in  any  but  what  are  whole,  and  without  blemish;  shake 
them  weu  down  (otherwise  the  bottles  wiH  not  be  half  tvSl 
when  done) ;  stop  the  bottles  with  new  soft  corks,  not  too 
tight ;  set  them  mto  a  very  slow  oven  (nearly  cold)  four  or 
tve  hours;  the  slower  they  are  done  the  better;  when  they 

Kk3 


390 

bsnii  to  sbnnk  in  the  bottles,  it  is  a  snre  sign  that  the  firuit 
is  UMmmfffaly  waim :  take  them  out,  and  before  thev  are  ooM, 
drive  in  the  corks  qoite  tight;  set  them  in  a  bottie-rack  or 
basket,  with  the  mouth  downwards,  and  they  will  keep  good 
several  years. 

Green  gooseberries,  morello  cherries,  ctirrants,  green 
gages,  or  bullace,  may  be  done  the  same  way. 

06«. — ^If  the  corks  are  good,  and  fit  well,  tliere  will  be  no 
occasion  for  cementing  tton;  but  should  bungs  be  used,  it 
will  be  necessary. 

Bmtii— (No.  100.) 

Put  a  quartern  of  flour  into  a  large  basin,  with  two  tea- 
spoonfolsof  salt;  make  a  hole  in  the  mid^Jle ;  then  put  in  a 
l>asin  four  table-spoonfuls  of  ffood  yest;  stir  in  a  pint  of 
milk,  lukewarm;  put  it  in  theliole  of  the  flour;  sth:  it  just 
to  make  it  of  a  tiiin  batter;  then  strew  a  little  flour  over  the 
top;  then  set  it  on  one  side  of  the  fire,  and  cover  it  over; 
let  it  stand  till  the  next  morning;  then  make  it  into  dough; 
add  half  a  pint  more  of  warm  miUL ;  knead  it  for  ten  minu&^ 
and  then  set  it  in  a  warm  place  by  the  fire  for  one  hour  and 
a  half;  then  knead  it  again,  and  it  is  ready  either  for  loaves 
or  bricks :  bake  them  from  one  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours, 
according  to  the  size. 

Frendi  Bread  and  RoUs.-^^o,  100*.) 

Take  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk ;  make  it  quite  warm ;  half 
a  pint  of  small-beer  yest ;  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  it  as 
thick  as  batter;  put  it  into  a  pan;  cover  it  over,- and  keep  it 
warm :  when  it  has  risen  as  high  as  it  will,  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  jrarm  water,  and  half  an  ounce  of  salt,— mix  them  well 
together;— rub  into  a  little  flour  two  ounces  of  butter;  then 
n^e  your  dough,  not  quite  so  stiff  as  for  your  bread;  let  it 
stand  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  it  will  be  ready  to 
make  into  rolls,  &c. :  let  them  stand  till  they  have  risen,  and 
bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sallt  Lmnr.— Tea  Cakes.'-^So.  101.) 

.  Take  one  pint  of  milk  quite  warm,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
thick  small-beer  yest;  put  them  into  a  pan  with  flour  suffi- 
cient to  make  it  as  thick  as  batter^— cover  it  over,  and  let  it 
stand  till  it  has  risen  as  high  as  it  will,  t.  e,  about  two  hours : 
add  two  ounces  of  lump  sugar,  dissolved  in  a  quarter  of  a 


BREAD.  59^1 

I  pint  of  wann  milk,*  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rubbed 
I  into  your  flour  veiy  fine ;  then  make  your  dough  the  same 
I  as  for  French  rolls,  &c. ;  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour ;  then 

f         make  up  your  cakes,  and  put  them  on  tins :  when  they  have 

stood  to  hse,  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 
I  Care  should  be  taken  never  to  put  your  yest  to  water  or 

milk  too  hot,  or  too  cold,  as  either  extreme  will  destroy  the 

I  fermentation.    In  summer  it  should  be  lukewarm,  in  winter 

j  a  lit^e  wankier,  and  in  very  cold  weather,  warmer  still. 

^^en  it  ha4  first  risen,  if  you  are  not  prepared,  it  will  not 

hurt  to  stand  an  houTt 

Mvjffim.'^No.  103.) 

I  Ti^e  one  pint  of  milk  quite  warm,  »id  a  quarter  of  a  pint 

I  of  thick  small-beer  yest ;  strain  them  into  a  pan,  and  add 

suMcient  flour  to  make  it  like  a  batter ;  cover  it  over,  and 

!  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  it  has  nsen;  then  add  a 

I  quarter  of  a  pint  of  warm  milk,,  and  one  ounce  of  butter 

I  nibbed  in  some  flour  quite  fine;  mix  them  well  together: 

,  then  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  it  into  dough,  cover  it  over, 

and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour;  then  work  it  up  again,  and 

break  it  into  small  pieces :  roll  them  up  quite  round,  and 

cover  them  over  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  bake  them. 

Crumpets. — (No.  103.) 

The  same :  instead  of  making  the  mixture  into  dough,  add 
only  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  and  when  it  has 
stood  a  quarter  of  an  hour  it  will  be  ready  to  bake. 

Muffins  and  crumpets  bake  best  on  a  stove  with  an  iron 
plate  fixed  on  the  top;  but  they  wiU  also  bake  in  a  frying- 
pan,  taking  care  the  fire  is  not  too  fierce,  and  turning  them 
vrhen  lightly  browned, 

YorkMre  Oiike9.-<No.  104.) 

Take  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk  quite  warm,  and  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  thick  small-beer  yest ;  mix  them  well  together  in  a 
pan  with  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter ;  let  it  stand 
m  a  warm  place  coTered  oyer  until  it  has  risen  as  high  as  it 
will ;  rub  six  ounces  of  butter  into  some  flour  till  it  is  quite 
fine ;  then  break  three  eggs  into  your  pan  with  the  flour  and 
batter;  mix  them  weU  together;  then  add  sufficient  flour  to 
make  it  into  a  dough,  and  let  it  stand  a  quarter  of  an  hour; 

*  Ifyoa  ao  not  mind  UK«xpeiiie,tbe  cake  wiD  be  machligbterifi  instead  of  t)|e 
PiiUr,7oa  pat  four  r 


3M  HTDDnKM  AKD  PISS. 

Iken  woik  it  op  agaiii«  and  break  it  into  pieee^  tbont  die  sice 
of  an  tggfOrmrgBtf  as  you  may  fancy ;  n^  them  loraid  and 
aawoth  with  jour  hand,  and  put  them  on  tins,  and  let  ti&em 
aland  oormd  over  with  a  light  pieee  of  llanneL 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  PUDDINGS  AND  PIES. 

Tbb  quality  of  the  yarious  articles  employed  in  the  com- 
position of  puddinffs  and  pies  yaries  so  much,  that  two  pud- 
dings, made  exacUy  according  to  the  same  receipt,  will  be 
^o  different*  one  woyld  hardly  suppose  they  were  made  by 
the  same  person,  and  certainly  not  with  precisely  the  same 
quantities  of  the  (apparently)  same  ingredients.  Flour  fresh 
ground,  pure  new  milk,  fresh  laid  eggs,  fresh  butter,  fresh 
suet,  &c.  will  make  a  veiy  different  composition,  than  when 
kept  till  each  article  is  half  spoiled. 

Plum  puddings,  when  boiled,  if  hung  up  in  a  cool  place  in 
the  cloth  they  are  boiled  in,  will  keep  eood  some  months  ; 
when  wanted,  take  them  out  of  the  cloth,  and  put  them  into 
a  clean  cloth,  and  as  soon  as  warmed  through,  tl^y  are  ready. 

Mem. — ^In  composing  these  receipts,  the  quantities  of  eggs, 
butter,  &c.  are  considerably  less  than  are  ordered  in  oQier 
cookery  books ;  but  quite  sufficient  for  the  purpose  of  making 
the  puddings  light  and  wholesome; — we  have  diminished  the 
eipense,  without  impoyerishing  the  preparations;  and  the 
rational  epicure  wiU  be  as  wen  pleased  with  them  as  the 
rational  economist. 

Milk,  in.  its  genuine  state,  yaries  considerably  in  the  quan-^ 
til^  of  cream  it  will  throwv  op,  depending  on  the  material 
with  which  the  cow  is  fed.  The  cow  that  gives  the  most 
milk  does  not  always  produce  the  most  cream,  which  varies 
fifteen  or  twenty  per  cent. 

Eggs  vary  considerably  in  size ;  in  the  following  receipts 
we  mean  the  full-sized  hen's  egg;  if  you  have  only  pullet's 
eggs,  use  two  for  one.  Break  eggs  one  by  one  into  a  basin, 
and  not  all  into  the  bowl  together ;  because  then,  if  you  meet 
with  a  bad  one,  that  will  spoil  all  the  rest:  strain  them 
through  a  sieve  to  take  oiit  the  treddles. 

*  An  old  teniAwuaum,  who  Hved  ahnoal  entirely  on  pnddings,  toM  us,  it  was  a 
loBg  tiiiif  bemn  alM  oo«ld  g«t  them  mmte  unlfimnly  food,  UlUhe  ma^ 
rule ;— *«  If  the  pudding  was  good,  abe  let  Uie  cook  have  the  remainder  of  it ;  if  it  ww 
not,  die  gave  it  to  her  lapdog;**   but  aa  soon  aa  Uda  ivattlation  was  known,  poor 
Ultle  Bow-wow  seldom  got  tb6  sweet  treat  after. 


N.B*  To  preserve  eggs  for  twelve  months,  se^  N3,lo 
No.  547.  Snow,  and  small  beer,  have  be^  recommended 
bysQine  economists  as  ddpiirable  substitutes  for  e^gs;  they 
ivill  no  more  answer  this  purpose  thim  as  substitutes  Ibr 
8Ug;ar  or  brandy. 

Flour,  according  to  that  champion  against  adulteration, 
Mr.  Accum,  varies  in  qualitjr  as  much  as  any  thing. 

Butter  also  variesi  much  iii  quality.    Salt  butter  maybe 

washed  from  the  salt,  and  then  it  will  make  very  good  pastry. 

Lard  varies  extremely  from  the  time  it  is  kept,  &c.    When 

you  purchase  it,  have  the  bladder  cut,  and  ascertain  that  it 

be  sweet  and  sood. 

Suet.  Beef  is  the  best,  then  mutton  and  veal ;  when  this 
is  used  in  very  hot  weather,  while  you  chop  it,  dredge  it 
lightly  with  a  little  flour. 

Beef-marrow'  is  excellent  for  most  of  the  purposes  for 
which  suet  is  employed. 

Drippings,  especially  from  beef,  when  very  clean  and  nice, 
are  frequently  used  for  kitchen  crusts  and  pies,  and  for  such 
purposes  are  a  satisfactory  substitute  for  butter,  lard,  &c. 
To  clean  and  preserve  drippings,  see  No.  83. 

Currants,  previous  to  putting  them  into  the  pudding,  should 
be  plumped :  this  is  done  by  pouring  some  bpuing  water  upon 
them :  wash  them  well,  and  then  lay  them  on  a  sieve  or  cloth 
before  the  fire,  pick  them  clean  from  the  stones  ;^this  not 
only  makes  them  look  better,  but  cleanses  them  from  all  dirt. 
Raisins,  figs,  dried  cherries,  candied  orange  and  lemon- 
peel,  citron,  and  preserves  of  all  kinds,  fresh  fruits,  goose- 
berries, currants,  plums,  damsons,  &c.  are  added  to  batter 
and  suet  puddings,  or  enclosed  in  the  crust  ordered  fbr  apple 
diimplings,  and  niake  all  the  various  puddings  called  by  those 
names. 

Batter  puddings  must  be  quite  smooth  and  free  from  lumps ; 
to  ensure  this,  first  mix  the  flour  with  a  little  milk,  add  the 
remainder  by  degrees,  and  then  the  other  ingredients. 

If  it  is  a  plain  pudding,  put  it  through  a  hair-sieve ;  this 
will  take  out  all  lumps  effectually. 

Batter  puddings  should  be  tied  up  tight:  if  boiled  in  a 
mould,  butter  it  first ;  if  baked,  also  butter  the  pan. 

Be  sure  the  water  boils  before  you  put  in  the  pudding;  set 
your  stew-pan  on  a  trivet  over  the  fire,  and  keep  it  steadily 
boiling  all  the  time  ^-if  set  upon  the  fire,  the  pudding  often 
bums. 

Be  scrupulously  careful  that  your  pudding-cloth  is  perfectly 
sweet  and  clean;  wash  it  without  any  soap,  unless  very 
greasy ;  then  rinse  it  thoroughly  in  clean  water  after.    Init> 


.3f4  rvDjanoB  and  nxs. 

mediatdy  before  ym  use  it,  dip  it  in  boiling  water;  squeeze 
:  It  dry,  aiid  dredge  it  with  iionr. 

If  your  iire  is  very  fierce,  mind  and  stir  the  puddings  eTery 
now  and  then  to  ke^  them  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of 
the  saucepan ;  if  in  a  mouId»  this  care  is  not  so  nrach  re- 
,  qnired,  but  keep  plenty  of  water  in  the  saucepan. 

When  puddings  are  boiled  in  a  cloth,  it  should  be  just  dip- 
ped in  a  basin  of  cold  water,  before  3rou  untie  tiie  puddmg- 
cloth,  as  that  will  prevent  it  from  stickinj^ ;  but  when  iNuled 
in  a  mould^  if  it  iB  well  buttered,  they  will  turn  out  without. 
Custard  or  bread  puddings  require  to  stand  five  minutes  before 
they  are  turned  out.  They  should  always  be  boiled  isk  a 
mould  or  cups. 

Keep  your  paste-board,  rolling-pin,  cutters,  and  tins  very 
clean;  the  least  dust  on  the  tins  and  cutters,  or  the  leajst 
hard  paste  on  the  rolling-pin,  will  spoil  the  whole  of  your 
labour. 

Tilings  used  for  pastry  or  cakes  should  not  be  used  for  any 
dther  purpose ;  be  veir  careful  that  your  flour  is  dried  at  the 
fire  before  you  use  it,  for  puff  paste  or  cakes ;  if  damp  it  wiU 
make  them  heavy. 

In  using  butter  for  puflT  paste,  you  should  take  the  greatest 
care  to  previously  work  it  well  on  the  paste-boaxd  or  slab, 
to  get  out  all  the  water  and  buttermilk,  which  very  oftean 
remains  in;  when  you  have  worked  it  well  with  a  dean 
knife,  dab  it  over  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  it  is  then  ready  to  lay 
on  your  paste ;  do  not  make  your  paste  over  stiff  before  you 
put  in  your  butter. 

For  those  who  do  not  understand  making  puff  paste,  it  is 
by  far  the  best  way  to  work  the  butter  in  at  two  separate 
times,  divide  it  in  half,  and  break  the  half  in  little  bits,  and 
cover  your  paste  all  over:  dredge  it  lightly  vnth  flour,  then 
fold  it  over  each  side  and  ends,  roll  it  out  quite  thin,  and  then 
put  in  the  rest  of  the  butter,  fold  it,  and  roll  it  again. 
Remember  always  to  roll  puff  paste  from  you^  The  best 
made  paste,  if  not  properly  baked,  will  not  do  the  cook  any 
credit. 

Those  who  use  iron  ovens  do  not  always  succeed  in  baking 
puff  paste,  fruit  pies,  &;c.  Puff  paste  is  often  spoiled  by 
baking  it  after  fruit  pies,  in  an  iron  oven.  This  may  l>e 
easily  avoided,  by  putting  two  or  three  bricks  that  ^  quite 
even  into  the  oven  before  it  is  first  set  to  get  hot.  This  will 
not  only  prevent  the  syrup  from  boilinff  out  of  the  pies,  but 
also  prevent  a  very  disagreeable  smell  in  the  kitcnen  and 
house,  and  almost  answers  the  ^ame  purpose  as  a  hncl$. 
oven. 


PUDDINGS  AK]>  riE8.  iS96 

CM^  PiMUtf^.— (No.  105.) 

Beat  four  eggs,  yelks  and  whites  together,  in  a  quart  basin, 
with  two  ounces  of  flour,  half  a  nutmeg,  a  little  ginger,  and 
three  ounces  of  sugar ;  pounded  loaf  sugar  is  TOSt.  Beat 
it  into  a  smooth  batter ;  then  add  six  ounces  of  suet,  chopped 
fine,  six  of  currants,  well  washed  and  picked ;  mix  it  all  well 
together;  a  glass  of  brandy  or  white  wine  will  improve  it. 
These  puddings  are  generally  fried  in  butter  or  lard ;  but  they 
'are  much  nicer  baked  in  an  oven  in  patty-pans;  twen^ 
minutes  will  bake  them :  if  fried,  fiy  them  till  they  are  of  a 
nice  light  brown,  and  when  fried,  roll  them  in  a  httle  flour. 
.You  may  add  one  ounce  of  orange  or  citrpn,  minced  very 
flne ;  when  you  bake  them,  add  one  more  egg,  or  two  spoon- 
fuls of  milk.    Serve  them  up  with  white  wine  sauce. 

Eice  Puddings  bakedj  or  &(n2e(2.-^(No.  106.) 

Wash  in  cold  water  and  pick  very  clean  six  ounces  of  rice, 
put  it  in  a  quart  stew-pan  three  parts  filled  with  cold  water, 
set  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes ;  pour  away  Uie 
water,  and  put  in  one  quart  of  milk,  a  roll  of  lemon  peel,  and  a 
bit  of  cinnamon ;  let  it  boil  gently  till  the  rice  is  qmte  tender ; 
it  will  take  at  least  one  hour  and  a  quarter ;  be  careful  to  stir 
it  eveiT  five  minutes ;  take  it  off*  the  fire,  and  stir  in  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  fresh  butter,  and  beat  up  three  eggs  on  a  plate, 
a  salt-spoonfiil  of  nutmeg,  two  ounces  of  sugar;  put  it  into 
the  pudding,  and  stir  it  tin  it  is  quite  smooth ;  line  a  pie-dish 
big  enough  to  hold  it  with  puff*  paste,  notch  it  round  the  edge, 
put  in  your  pudding,  and  bake  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour : 
this  will  be  a  nice  Inn  pudding. 

If  you  like  it  to  eat  more  like  custard,  add  one  more  egg, 
and  half  a  pint  more  milk ;  it  will  be  better  a  little  thinner 
when  boikd;  one  hour  wUl  boil  it.  If  you  like  it  in  little 
puddings,  butter  small  tea-cups,  and  either  bake  or  boil  them, 
half  an  hqur  will  do  either:  you  may  vary  the  pud<hng  by 
putting  in  candied  lemon  or  orange-peel,  minced  very  fine, 
or  dnm  cherries,  or  three  ounces  of  currants,  or  raisms,  or 
apples  minced  fine. 

If  the  puddinff  s  are  baked  or  boiled,  serve  them  with  white* 
wine  sauce,  or  butter  and  sugar. 

Ground  Rict  Pudding.^^o.  107.) 

Put  four  ounces  of  ground  rice  into  a  stew-pan,  and  by 
degrees  stir  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk ;  set  it  on  the  fire, 
with  a  roll  of  lemon  and  a  bit  of  cinnamon ;  keep  sthiing 


399  nrvuMOi  4x»  ms. 

iltaiilballf;  toalit  toaaModibatter;  tfaenaetiton  tlie 
ttirety  wbere  il  will  aimmer  fently  for  a  (juarter  of  «a  lioar ; 
then  beat  tfarat  em  on  a  pfate,  stir  them  into  the  podding 
with  two  ooncea  01  siigar  and  two  drachms  of  nutmiesr*  take 
oat  the  lemon-peel  and  cinnamont  stir  it  all  well  tog&tbsTf 
line  a  iMe-dieh  with  thin  puff  paste  (No.  1  of  receqita  fixr 
pastry)*  hif  enough  to  hefil  it,  m  butter  the  dish  well,  mad 
rake  it  half  an  hour;  if  boiled,  it  will  take  one  hcrar  in  a 
mould  well  battered ;  three  ounces  of  currants  may  be  added. 

Bkt  Smm  fioOf*— (No.  106.) 

Wash  and  pick  half  a  pound  of  rice  Ter^  clean,  put  it  an 
in  a  saucepan  with  plenty  of  water;  when  it  boils  let  it  boil 
ten  minatM,  drain  it  on  a  sieve  till  it  is  quite  dry,  and  then 
pare  six  ^iples,  weighing  two  oonces  and  ahalf  each.  Divide 
the  rice  into  six  parcels,  in  separate  cloths^  put  one  apfite  in 
each,  tie  it  loose,  and  boil  it  one  hour;  serve  it  with  et^ar 
and  butter,  or  wine  sauce. 

Bie€  BULnemange.^No.  109.) 

Put  a  tea-cupful  of  whole  rice  into  the  least  water  possi- 
ble, till  it  almost  bursts;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  gooa  milk 
or  thin  cream,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  quite  a  mash,  stirring  it  the 
whole  time  it  is  on  the  fire,  that  it  may  not  bum;  dip  a  stape 
in  cold  water,  and  do  not  dry  it;  put  in  the  rice,  and  let  it 
stand  until  quite  cold,  when  it  will  come  easily  out  of  the 
shape.  This  dish  is  much  ajpproved  of;  it  is  eaten  with 
cream  or  custsurd,  and  preserved  fruits;  raspberries  are  best 
It  should  be  made  the  day  before  it  is  wanted,  that  it  may 
get  firm. 

This  blancmanffe  will  eat  much  nicer,  flavoured  with 
spices,  lemon-peel,  &c.,  and  sweetened  with  a  little  loaf 
sugar,  add  it  with  the  milk,  and  take  out  tiie  lemon-peel 
befoie  yon  put  in  the  mould. 

Seme'Cll  Pudding.-^No.  110.) 

Put  any  scraps  of  bread  into  a  clean  saucepan;  to  about 
a  pound,  put  a  pint  of  milk ;  set  it  on  the  trivet  till  it  boils ; 
beat  it  up  quite  smooth ;  then  break  in  thiee  eggs,  three  ounces 
of  sugar,  with  a  little  nutmeg,  ginger,  or  allspice,  and  stir  it 
all  well  together.  Butter  a  msh  big  enough  to  hold  it,  put  in 
the  pudding,  and  have  ready  two  ounces  of  suet  chopped 
very  fine,  strew  it  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  and  bake  it 


FCDDIKOS  Ain>  PIES.  907 

I        three  quarters  ot  an  hour;  four  ounces  of  currants  mill 

I        make  it  much  better.  '  • 

I 

I  Batter  Pudding,  baked  or  6oi7c(f.— (No.  111.) 

I  Break  three  esfgs  in  a  basin  with  as  much  salt  as  will  lie 

^         6n  a  sixpence ;  beat  them  well  together,  anil  then  add  four 

I         ounces  of  flour ;  beat  it  into  a  smooth  batter,  and  by  dejfrees 

I         add  hs^f  a  pint  of  milk :  have  your  saucepan  ready  boding, 

and  butter  an  earthen  mould  well,  put  the  pudding  in,  and 

tie  it  tight  over  with  a  pudding-cloth,  and  hoil  it  one  hour 

and  a  quarter.    Or,  put  it  in  a  dish  that  you  have  well  but- 

.  tered,  and  bake  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

:  Currants  washed  and  picked  clean,  or  raisins  stoned,  are 

good  in  this  pudding,  and  it  is  then  called  a  black  cap :  or, 

I  add  loaf  sugar,  and  a  little  nutmeg  and  ginger  without  the 

I  fruit, — it  is  very  good  that  way;  serve  it  with  wine  sauce* 

'  %>/«  Pudding  ftoitec?.— (No.  112;) 

Chop  four  ounces  of  beef  suet  very  fine,  or  two  ounces  of 
butter,  lard,  or  dripping ;  but  the  suet  makes  the  best  and 
lightest  crust ;  put  it  on  the  paste-board,  with  eight  ounces 
of  flour,  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  mix  it  well  together  with 
*  your  hands,  and  then  put  it  all  of  a  heap,  and  make  a  hol^  in 
the  middle ;  break  one  egg  in  it,  stir  it  well  together  with 
your  finger,  and  by  degrees  infuse  as  much  water  as  will 
make  it  of  a  stiff  paste :  roll  it  out  two  or  three  times,  with 
the  roUing-pm,  and  then  roll  it  large  enough  to  receive  thir- 
teen ounces  of  apples.  It  will  look  neater  if  boiled  in  a 
basin,  well  buttered,  than  when  boiled  in  a  pudding-cloth, 
well  floured;  boil  it  an  hour  and  three  quarters:  but  the 
surest  way  is  to  stew  the  apples  first  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a 
wine-glassful  of  water,  and  then  one  hour  will  boil  it.  Some 
people  like  it  flavoured  with  cloyes  and  lemon-peel,  and 
sweeten  it  with  tw6  ounces  of  su^r. 

Gooseberries,  currants,  raspbemes,  and  cherries,  damsons, 
and  various  plums  and  fruits,  are  made  into  puddings  with 
the  same  crust  directed  for  apple  puddings. 

^pple  DumpUngt, — (No.  113.) 

Make  paste  the  same  as  for  apple  pudding,  divide  it  into 
as  many  pieces  as  you  want  dumplings,  peel  the  apples  and 
core  them,  then  roll  out  your  paste  large  enough,  and  put  in 
the  apples ;  close  it  all  round,  and  tie  tl^m  in  pudding-cloths 
very  tight ;  one  hour  will  boil  them :  and  when  vou  take  them 

LI 


3M  nomsMp 

ifS  jott  dip  tihem  in  cold  Water,  and  put  them  in  a  &n^  Ae 
Bize  of  the  dnmiding  while  yon  untie  tnenif  and  they  will  tam. 
out  without  breaking, 

iS^  Pvidding  or  Duay)ling8.^(So.  114.) 

Chop  six  ounces  of  suet  veiy  fine :  put  it  in  a  basin  with 
six  ounces  of  flour,  two  ounces  of  bread-crumbs,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  stir  it  aU  well  together:  beat  two  eggs  on  a 
plate,  add  to  them  six  table-spoonfuls  of  milk,  put  it  by 
decrees  into  the  basin,  and  stir  it  aU  well  toge^ier;  divide 
it  mto  six  dumplings,  and  tie  them  separate,  previously 
dredgin j;  the  cloth  lishtly  with  flour,    Bou  them  one  hour. 

This  IS  very  good  ue  next  day  fried  in  a  little  butter.  The 
above  will  niake  a  jrood  pudding,  boiled  in  an  earthenware 
mould,  with  the  addition  of  one  more  egg,  a  little  more  milk, 
and  two  ounces  of  suet.    Boil  it  two  hours. 

N.B.  The  most  economical  way  of  making  duet  dump- 
lings, is  to  boil  them  without  a  cloth  in  a  pot  with  beef  or 
mutton;  no  eggs  are  then  wanted,  and  the  dumplings  are 
<iuite  as  light  without:  roll  them  in  flour  before  you  put  them 
into  the  pot;  add  six  ounces  of  currants,  washed  and  picked, 
and  you  nave  currant  pudding:  or  divided  into  six  parts,  cnr- 
raj^t  dumplings;  a  little  sugar  will  improve  them. 

Cottage  Potato  Pudding  or  Qiibe.-<No.  115.) 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash,  a  couple  of  pounds  of  potatoes :  beat 
them  up  imo  a  smooth  batter,  with  about  three  .quarters  of  a 

eint  of  milk,  two  ounces  of  moist  sugar,  and  two  or  three 
eaten  eggs.  Bake  it  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
Three  ounces  of  currants  or  raisins  may  be  adde^  Leave 
out  the  milk,  and  add  three  ounces  of  butter,— it  will  make  a 
very  nice  cake. 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  PICKLES. 

We  are  not  fond  of  pickles :  these  sponges  of  vinegar  aie 
often  very  indigestible,  especially  in  the  crisp  state  in  which 
they  are  most  admired.  The  Indian  fashion  of  pounding 
pickles  is  an  excellent  one:  we  recommend  those  who  have 
any  regard  for  their  stomach,  yet  stiU  wish  to  indulge  their 
tongue,  instead  of  eating  pickles,  which  are  really  merely 


7ICKUE9*  309 

vehicdes  for  takings  a  certain  poition  of  vinegar  and  spice^ 
&c.  to  use  the  flavoured  vinegars;  such  as  hnmet  f No.  399), 
horseradish  (No.  399*),  tarragon  (No.  396),  mint  (No.  397), 
cress  (Nos.  397*,  401,  403, 405*,  453,  457),  &c.;  by  eombina- 
tions  of  these,  a  relish  ma,Y  easily  be  composed,  exactly  in 
liai:mon3r  with  the  palate  of  the  eater. 

The  pickle  made  to  preserve  cucumbers,  &c.  id  generally 
so  strongly  impregnated  with  garlic,  mustard,  and  spice,  &c. 
that  the  original  flavour  of  the  vegetables,  is  qmte  over- 
powered; and  if  the  eater  shuts  his  eyes*  his  lingual  nerves 
will  be  puzzled  to  inform  him  whether  he  is  munching  an 
onion  or  a  cucumber,  &;c.,  and  nothing  can  be  more  absurd, 
than  to  pickle  plums,  peaches,  apricots,  currants,  grapes,  &c. 
The  strongest  vinegar  must  be  used  for  pickling:  it  must 
not  be  boiled  or  the  strength  of  the  vine^  and  spices  will  be 
evaporated*  By  paihoiling  the  pickles  in  brine,  they  will  be 
ready  in  much  less  time  than  they  are  when  done  in  the  usual 
manner,  of  soaking  them  in  cold  salt  and  water  for  six  or 
eight  days.  When  taken  out  of  the  hot  brine,  let  them  get 
cold  and  (juite  dry  before  jou  put  them  into  the  pickle. ' 

To  assist  the  preservation  of  pickles,  a  portion  of  salt  is 
added;  and  for  the  same  purpose,  and  to  give  flavour,  long 
pepper,  black  pepper,  allspice,  ginger^  cloves,  mace,  garlic, 
esc&alots,  mustard,  horseradish,  and  capsicum. 

The  following  is  the  best  method  of  preparing  the  pickle, 
as  cheap  as  any,  and  requires  less  care  than  any  other  way. 
Bruise  in  a  mortar  four  ounces  of  the  above  spices ;  put 
theiii  into  a  stone  jar  with  a  quart  of  the  stronj^st  vineear, 
stop  the  jar  closely  with  a  bung,  cover  that  with  a  bladder 
soaked  with  pickle,  set  it  on  a  trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for 
three  days,  well  shaking  it  up  at  least  three  times  in  the  day; 
the  pickle  should  be  at  least  three  inches  abovie  the.picklea. 
The  jar  being  well  closed,  and  the  infusion  being  made  with 
a  mild  heat,  Siere  is  no  loss  by  evaporation. 

To  enable  the  articles  pickled  more  easily  and  speedily  to 
imbibe  the  flavour  of  the  pickle  they  are  immersed  in,  me- 
viously  to  pouring  it  on  them,  run  a  larding-pin  through  them 
in  several  places. 

The  spices,  &c.  commonly  used,  are  those  mentioned  in 
the  receipt  for  pickling  walnuts;  which  is  also  an  excellent 
savoury  sauce  for  cold  meats. 

The  flavour  may  be  varied  ad  ii^nitum  by  adding  celery, 

cress-seed,  or  curry  powder  (No.  455),  or  by  taking  for  the 

liquor  any  of  the  flavoured  vinegars,  &^.  we  have  enumerated 

above,  and  see  the  receipts  between  Nos.  395  and  481. 

Pickles  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  in  imglazed  earthea-i 


400 

waT«t  <»*  glaM  Jars,  which  ive  ivefenble,  as  yoQ  can,  witli^ 
cpeniiig  theniy  obsenre  whetanr  they  want  Wmg  np:  tiiey 
mutt  M  veiy  carefully  stopped  with  well-fitted  Dun£B»  mA 
tied  over  aa  cloeely  as  possible  with  a  Uadder  wetted  with 
the  pickle;  and  if  to  be  presenred  a  long^  time,  alter  that  is 
dry,  it  must  be  dipped  io  bottle-cement;  see  page  137. 

when  the  picues  are  all  nsed,  boil  up  the  uqnor  with  a 
little  fresh  spice. 

To  walnut  liquor  mav  be  added  a  few  anchovies  and 
escludots :  let  it  stand  till  it  is  quite  clear,  and  bottle  it :  thus 
you  may  furnish  your  table  with  an  exceflent  savoury  keeping 
sauce  for  hashes,  made  dishes,  fish,  frc  at  very  small  cost,* 
see  No.  439* 

Jars  should  not  be  more  than  4iree  parts  filled  with  the 
articles  pickled,  which  should  be  covered  with  pickle  at  least 
two  inches  above  their  surface;  the  liquor  wastesnjind  aU  of 
the  articles  pickled,  that  are  not  covered,  are  soon  spoiled. 

When  they  have  been  done  about  aweek*  q>en  the  jars, 
and  fill  them  up  with  pickle. 

Tie  a  wooden  spoon,  full  of  hides,  round  each  jar  to  take 
them  out  with. 

If  ]rou  wish  to  have  gheikins,  Ice  very  green,  tiiis  msnr 
be  easily  acconmlished  by  keeping  them  in  vin^far,  sufli- 
ciently  hot,  till  they  become  so.  4» 

If  you  wish  caulifiowers,  onions,  Ice.  to  be  white,'  use  dis- 
tilled vinegar  for  them. 

To  entirely  prevent  the  mischief  arising  fnMn  the  action 
of  the  acid  upon  the  metallic  utensils  usually  employ^  ts 
prepare  pickles,  the  whole  of  the  process  is  directed  to  be 
penonned  in  unglaaed  stone  jars. 

N.B.  The  maxim  of  ''open  your  mouth,  and  shut  yoor 
eyes,**  cannot  be  better  applied  than  to  pickles ;  and  the  only 
direction  we  have  to  record  for  the  improvemrait  of  tiieir 
complexion,  is  the  ioke  of  Dr.  Goldsmitn,  ''If  their  colour 
does  not  please  yon,  send'em  to  Hammersmith,  .that's  the 
way  to  Tumham  Green.'* 

Commencing  the  list  with  walnuts,  I  must  take  this  op^r- 
tunity  of  impressing  the  necessity  of  being  strictly  particular 
in  watching  the  due  season ;  for  of  all  the  variety  of  articles 
in  this  department  to  furnish  the  welUregulatedl  store-room, 
nothing  is  so  precarious,  for  frequently  after  the  first  week 
that  walnuts  come  in  season,  they  become  hard  and  shelled, 
particularly  if  the  season  is  a  veiy  hot  one ;  therefore  let  the 
prudent  housekeeper  consider  it  indispensably  necessary 
they  should  be  purchased  as  soon  as  they  first  appear  at 
market ;  should  they  cost  a  trifle  more,  that  is  nothuig  com- 


ncKLEfl.  .    401 

pared  to  fhe  disai^inOiieiit  of  fin<Hi%,  six  months  hence, 
when  you  go  to  your  pickle«jar,  ezpeetin|f  a  fine  relish  for 
your  chops,  &c.  to  find  the  nuts  incased  in  a  shell,  which 
defies  both  teeth  and  steel. 

Nastiu^iums  are  to  be  had  l^  the  middle  of  July. 

Garlic,  from  Midsummer  to  Michaelmas. 

Eschalots,  ditto.   . 
*    Onions,  the  various  kinds  for  pickling",  are  to  be  had,  by  the 
middle  of  July,  and  for  a  month  after. 

Gherkins  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of  July,  and  for  a 
month  after. 

Cucumbers  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of  July,  and  for  a 
month  after. 

Melons  and  mangoes  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of  July, 
and. for  a  month  after. 

Capsicums,  green,  red,  and  yellow,  the  end  of  July;  and  fol- 
lowing month. 

Chilies,  the  end  of  July,  and  following  month.    See  Nos. 
404  and  405*,  and  No.  406. 

Love  apples,  or  tomatas,  end  of  July,  and  throughout 
Auffust.    See  No.  443. 

Cauliflower,  for  pickling,  July  and  August. 

Artichokes,  for  pickling,  July  and  August. 

Jerusalem  artichokes,  for  pickling,  July  and  August,  and 
Sot  three  months  after. 

Radish  pods,  for  pickling,  July. 

French  beans,  for  pickling,  July. 

Mushrooms,  for  pickling  and  catchup,  September.  See 
No.  439. 

Red  cabbage,  August. 

White  cabbage,  September  and  October* 

Samphire,  August. 

Horseradish,  November  and  December. 

^alitu(a.--(No.  116.) 

■Make  a  brine  of  salt  and  water,  in  the  proportion  of  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  s^t  to  a  quart  of  water ;  put  the  walnuts 
into  this  to  soak  for  a  ^eek ;  or  if  you  wish  to  soften  them  so 
that  they  may  be  soon  ready  for  eating,  run  a  larding*pin 
through  them  in  half  a  dozen  ^aces-^this  will  allow  the  pickle 
to  penetrate,  and  they  will  be  much  softer,  and  of  better 
flavour,  and  ready  much  sooner  than  if  not  perforated :  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan  with  such  brine,  and  give  them  a  gentle 
simmer ;  put  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain ;  then  lay  them  on  a  fidi 
plate,  and  let  them  stand  in  the  air  till  they  turn  black— thi» 

LIS 


40S 

may  take  •coiiplat>f  day;pqt  them  into  giMSf  Of  nnglageJ 
stone  Jan;  liU  mese  about  tbree  parts  with  the  walmita,  and 
fill  them  up  with  the  following  pickle. 

To  each  qnart  of  the  stioi^eat  vinenr  put  two  ounces  of 
black  pepper,  one  of  ginger,  aame  oT  eschalots,  same  of 
salt,  half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  and  half  a  drachm  <^  Cayenne. 
Put  these  into  a  stone  jar;  cover  it  with  a  bladder,  wetted 
with  pickle,  tie  over  that  some  leather,  and  set  the  jar  on  a 
trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  three  days,  shakings  it  op 
three  times  a  day,  and  then  pour  it  while  hot  to  the  ivalnuts, 
and  cover  them  down  with  bladder  wetted  with  the  pickle, 
leather,  &c. 

GAeriaii*.— (No.  117.) 

Get  tnose  of  about  four  inches  long,  and  an  inch  in 
diameter,  the  crude  half-grown  little  gfaerms  usually  pickled 
are  good  for  nothing.    Put  them  into  (unglazed)  stone  pans; 
cover  them  with  a  brine  of  salt  and  water,  made  with  a 
ouarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  to  a  ouart  of  water;  cover  them 
oown ;  set  them  on  the  earth  before  the  fire  for  two  or  three 
days  till  they  begin  to  turn  ydlow ;  then  put  away  the  water, 
and  cover  them  with  hot  vinegar ;  set  them  asain  before  the 
fire ;  keep  them  hot  till  they  become  ^en  ^this  will  take 
eight  or  ten  days);  then  pour  off  the  vinegar,  having  ready 
to  cover  them  a  pickle  of  fre^h  vinegar,  &c.,  the  same  as 
directed  in  the  preceding  receipt  for  walnuts  (leaving out  the 
escluilots);  cover  them  with  a  bung,  bladder,  and  leather. 
Read  the  observations  on  pickles,  p.  487. 

Obs. — ^ITie  vinegar  the  gherkins  were  greened  in  will  make 
excellent  salad  sauce,  or  for  cold  meats.    It  is,  in  fact,  eupet' 
j  lative  cucumber  vinegar. 

Frenck  Beont— JVasftufttfifu,  4*c. — (No.  118.) 

When  young,  and  most  other  small  green  vegetaUeSi  may 
be  pickled  the  same  way  as  gherkins. 

Beet  i2oote.^No.ll9.) 

Boil  gently  till  they  are  full  three  parts  done  (this  will  take 
from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  and  a  half);  then  take  them 
<Nit,  and  when  a  little  cooled,  peel  them,  and  cut  them  in 
slices  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Have  ready  a  pickle  for  it, 
made  by  adding  to  each  a  quart  of  vinegar  an  ounce  of 
groimd  Slack  pepper,  half  an  ounce  pf  ginger  pounded,  same 
pf  salt,  and  of  horseradish  cut  in  thin  slices ;  s^nd  you  may 


I 


» 


PZCKtES.  403 

I  ^vvflinn  it,  if  you  like,  with  ai  few  capsicums,  or  a  httle  O^yeDOB  \ 
I  put  these  iUffredients  into  a  jar;  stop  it  close,  and  let  them 
steep  three  days  on  a  trivet  hy  the  side  of  the  fire ;  then, 
vrhen  cold,  pour  the  clear  liquor  t>n  the  beet-^root,  which  have 
previously  arranged  in  ^  jar. 


lUd  Cahbage.— {No.  120.) 


I 
i 
I 
\ 

\  Get  a  fine^  purple  cabbage,  take  off  the  outside  leaves, 

I      quarter  it,  take  out  the  stalk,  shred  the  leaves  into  a  colander, 
I      sprinkle  them  with  salt,  let  them  remain  till  the  morrow, 
[      drain  them  diy,  put  them  into  a  jar,  and  cover  them  with  the 
pickle  for  beet  roots. 

Onions.— (So.  121.) 

-» 

I  'Phe  small  round  silver  button  opions,  about  as  big  as  a 

I       nutmeg,  make  a  very  nice  pickle.    Take  off  their  top  coats, 

I       have  ready  a  stew-pan,  three  parts  filled  with  boiling  water, 

i       into  which  put  as  many  onions  as  will  cover  the  top :  as 

soon  as  they  look  clear,  inunediately  take  them  up  with  a 

!       spoon  full  of  holes,  and  lay  them  on  a  cloth  three  times 

folded,  and  cover  them  with  another  till  you  have  ready  as 

I        many  as^ou  wish :  when  they  are  quite  dry,  put  them  into 

jars^  and  cover  them  with  hot  pickle,  made  by  infusing  an 

ounce  of  horseradish,  same  of  allspice,  and  same  of  black 

pepper,  and  same  of  salt,  in  a  quart  of  best  white-wine 

I        vinegar,  in  a  stone  jar,  on  a  trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for 

I        three  days,  keeping  it  well  closed;  when  cold,  bung  them 

down  tight,  and  cover  them  with  bladder  wetted  with  the 

I        pickle  and  leather. 

Cauliflowers  or  BroceoH.-^^o.  122.) 

Choose  those  that  are  hard,  yet  sufficiently  ripe,  cut  away 
the  leaves  and  stalks. 

Set  on  a  stew-pan  half  full  of  water,  salted  in  proportion 

of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water ;  throw  in 

the  cauliflower,  and  let  it  heat  gradually;  when  it  boils  take  it 

up  with  a  spoon  full  of  holes,  and  spread  Uiem  ou  a  cloth  to  dry 

before  the  fire,  for  twenty-four  hours  at  least ;  when  quite 

'         dry,  put  them,  piece  by  piece,  into  jars  or  glass  tie-overs,  and 

'         cover  them  with  the  pickle  we  have  directed  for  beet  roots, 

I         or  make  a  pickle  by  infusing  three  ounces  of  the  curry 

powder  (No.  455)  for^three  days  in  a  qusurt  of  vinegar  by  tb!e 

'         side  of  the  fire. 

I  Nasturtiums  are  excellent  prepared  as  above. 


404  ntoKtBs. 

BiHan  or  mixed  Ptdcle^^'Mango  Thr  Ptcoo/i^'.— (Na.  1S3.) 

The  ItAyovaring  ingredients  of  Indian  pickles  are  a  coin' 
pound  of  cuny  powder,  with  a  large  proportion  of  mustard 
and  gfarlic. 

The  following  will  be  found  something  like  the  real  mango 
pickle,  especially  if  the  garlic  b^  used  plentifully.  To  each 
gallon  of  the  strongest  vinegar  put  four  ounces  of  cuny 
powder  (No.  455\  same  of  flour  of  mustard  (some  rub  these 
together,  with  half  a  pint  of  salad  6il),  three  of  ginger  bruised, 
and  two  of  turmeric,  half  a  pound  (when  skinned)  of  escha- 
lots slightly  baked  in  a  Dutch  oven,  two  ounces  of  garlic  pre- 
psured  in  like  manned,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt,  and  two 
^drachms  of  Cayenne  pepper. 

Put  these  ingredients  into  a  stone  Jar;  cover  it  with  a^ 
bladder  wetted  with  the  pickle,  and  set  it  on  a  trivet  by  the* 
side  of  the  fire  during  three  days,  shaking  it  up  three  times 
a  day;  it  will  then  be  ready  to  receive  gherkins,  sliced 
cucumbers,  sliced  onions,  button  onions,  cauliflowers,  celery, 
broccoli,  French  beans,  nasturtiums,  capsicums,  and  snull 
green  melons.  The  latter  must  be  slit  m  the  middle  suffi- 
ciently to  admit  a  marrow-spoon,  with  which  take  out  all  the 
seeds ;  then  parboil  the  melons  in  a  brine  that  will  bear  an 
egg ;  dry  them,  and  fill  them  with  mustard-seed,  and  two 
cloves  of  garlic,  and  bind  the  melon  round  with  packthread. 

Large  cucumbers  may  be  prepared  in  like  manner. 

Green  peaches  make  the  best  imitation  of  the  Indian 
mango. 

The  other  articles  are  to  be  separately  parboiled  (excepting 
the  capsicums)  in  a  brine  of  salt  and  water  strong  enoiwito 
bear  an  eg^ ;  taken  out  and  drained,  and  spread  out,  andtho- 
roughly  <Med  in  the  sun,  on  a  stove,  or  before  a  fire,  for  a 
couple  of  days,  and  then  put  into  the  pickle. 

Any  thing  may  be  put  mto  this  pickle,  except  ted  cabbage 
and  walnuts. 

It  will  keep  several  years. 

Oi».— To  the  Indian  mango  pickle  is  added  a  considerable 
quantity  of  mustard-seed  o3,  which  would  also  be  an  excel- 
lent warm  ingredient  in  our  salad  sauces. 


HOUSEKEEPERS^   MAHTUAL. 


VAIQOUS  USEFUL  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

7h  prevent  Beer  becoming  Flat  after  it  is  drawn* 

Put  a  piece  of  toasted  bread  into  it,  and  it  wiU  preserve 
'    the  spirit  for  twelve  hours  after,  in  a  veiy  considerable  degree. 

'       I  To  clean  Plate, 

I         _. 

I         flrs^.— Take  care  that  your  (date  is  quite  free  froio  grease. 

I  Second. — Take  some  whitening  mixed  with  water,  and  a 
I  sponge,  rub  it  well  on  the  plate,  which  tnH  take  the  tarnish 
I  off ;  if  it  is  very  bad,  repieat  the  whitening  and  water  several 
I  times,  making  use  of  a  brush,  not  too  hard,-to  clean  the  intri- 
j      cate  parts. 

7%trd.^— Take  some  rouge-powder,  mix  it  with  water  to 
about  the  thickness  of  cream,  and  with  a  small  piece  of  leather 
(which  should  be  kept  for  that  purpose  only)  apply  the  rouge, 
which,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  ''Elbow  Grease,"  wul, 
in  a  short  time,  produce  a  most  beautiful  polish. 

N.B. — The  rouge-powder  may  be  had  at  all  the  silver- 
smiths and  jewellers. 

Ofrf . — ^The  above  is  the  actual  mamker  in  which  silversmiths 
clean  their  plate,  and  was  given  to  me  by  a  respectable 
tradesman. 

The  common  Method  cf  eleamng  PUUe. 

First  wash  it  well  with  soap  and  wann  water;  when  per- 
fectly dry,  mix  together  H  little  whitening  and  sweet  oil,  so  as 
to  make  a  soft  paste ;  then  take  a  piece  of  flannel»  rub  it  on 
the  plate ;  then  with  a  leather,  and  plenty  of  dry  whitening, 
rub  It  dean  off  again;  then,  with  a  dean  leather  mdahrush} 
finish  it. 

Varm^firOdPmaXiingt, 
According  to  the  number  of  your  pictures,  take  the  whit0i 


•.♦ 


i 


406  tiiFCt  PAXILT  macitpf^. 

of  Uw  nine  number  of  eggs,  and  an  equal  number  of  pieces 
of  sugar  candy,  the  sixe  of  a  hazel  not,  dissolvecU  ana  mix 
it  wim  a  tea-spoonful  of  brandy ;  beat  the  whites  €»f  your 
eggs  to  a  ffoth,  and  let  it  settle;  take  the  clear,  put  ittoyoor 
bruidy  and  sugar,  mix  them  well  together,  and  vamiah  oy& 
your  pictures  with  it  f 

This  is  much  better  than  any  otlLer  varnish,  as  it  is  easOy 
washed  off  when  your  pictures  want  cleaning  again. 

MethodofdtamnffPaper'Ha$iging9. 

Cut  into  eight  half  quarters  a  quartern  loaf,  two  days  old; 
it  must  neither  be  newer  nor  staler.    With  one  of  these  pie<^s, 
after  having  blown  off  all  the  dust  from  the  paper  to  be 
(^leaned,  by  the  means  of  a  good  pair  of  beUows,  begin  at  the 
top  of  the  room,  holding  the  crust  in  the  hand,  and  wiping 
lightly  downward  with  the  crumb,  about  half  a  yardj  at  eadi 
.stroke,  till  the  vippei  part  of  the  hangings  is  completely  cleaned 
all  round*    Then  go  round  again,  with  the  like  sw^eepingr 
Ktroke  downwaids,  always  commencing   each  saccessire 
course  a  little  hu;her  than  the  upper  stroke  had  extended,  tiQ 
the  bottom  be  miished.    This  operation,  if  cstrefully  per^ 
formed,  will  frequently  make  very  old  paper  look  almost 
equal  to  new. 

Great  caution  must  be  used  not  by  any  moans  to  rub  the 
paper  hard,  nor  to  attempt  cleaning  it  the  cross,  or  horizontal 
way.  The  dirty  part  of  the  bread,  too,  must  be  each  time  cut 
away,  and  the  pieces  renewed  as  soon  as  it  may  become 
necessaiy 

To  makB  Woodkh  Stain  haoe  the  appearance  rf  Stone. 

Paint  the  stabrs,  step  by  step,  with  white  paint,  mixed  witii 
strong  dr3ring  oil.    Strew  it  thick  with  silver  sand. 

It  ought  to  be  thoroughly  dry  next  morning,  when  the  loose 
sand  is  to  be  swept  off.  The  painting  and  sanding  is  to  be 
repeated,  and  when  dry,  the  surface  is  to  be  done  over  with 
pipe-clay,  whiting,  and  water;  which  may  be  boiled  in  an  old 
saucepan,  and  laid  on  with  a  bit  of  flannel,  not  too  thiclE, 
otherwise  it  will  be  apt  to  scale  off. 

A  penny  cake  of  pipe*clay,  which  must  be  scraped,  is  the 
common  proportion  to  half  i^  lump  of  whiting. 

The  pipe-clay  and  whiting  is  generally  applied  pnce  a 
week,  but  that  might  be  done  only  as  occasion  requires. 


USEFUL  FAMILY  KSCXaPTd.  407 

French  Poli^ 

Take  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  gam  sandarac  and  a  quar^ 
ter  of  an  ounce  of  ^m  mastic ;  pick  the  dirt  and  black  lumpi^ 
out  very  carefully,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar  quite  fine ; 
put  them  into  a  bottle,  and  add  to  them  a  quartern  (c^d  mea-^ 
sure)  of  strong  spirit  of  wine ;  cork  it  down  and  put  it  in  a 
warm  place ;  shake  it  frequently  till  the  gum  is  entirely  dis- 
solved, which  will  be  in  about  twenty-four  hours. 

Before  using  it,  be  careful  to  ascertain  that  no  grease  is  on 
the  furniture,  as  fireo^e  would  prevent  its  receivino^  the  polish. 
If  the  furniture  has  been  previously  cleaned  with  bees'-wax 
or  oil,  it  must  be  got  off  by  scraping,  which  is  the  best  way, 
but  difficult  to  those  who  do  not  perfectly  understand  it, 
because  if  you  are  not  very  careful,  you  may  scratch  the  sur- 
face, and' create  more  expense  than  a  workman  would  charge 
to  do  it  properly  at  first.    Or  it  may  be  done  b}[  scouring 
well  with  sand  and  water,  aiid  afterward  rubbed  qi^te  smooth 
with  fine  gl%ss  paper,  being  careful  to  do  it  with  tne  grain  of 
the  wood.    To  apply  the  polish,  you  must  have  a  piece  of 
list  or  cloth  twisted,  and  tied  round  quite  tight,  and  left  even 
at  one  end,  which  should  be  covered  with  a  piece  of  fine  linen 
cloth;  then  pour  a  little  of  the  polish  on  the  furniture,  and 
rub  it  well  all  over  till  it  is  worked  into  the  grain  of  the  wood, 
and  begins  to  look  quite  smooth ;  then  take  a  soft  fine  cloth, 
or  what  is  better,  an  old  silk  handkerchief,  and  keep  rubbing 
lightly  until  the  polish  is  complete,  which  will  take  two  or 
three  hours.    It  will  greatly  help  the  polish  if  it  is  done  near 
a  fire. 

If  it  does  not  look  so  smooth  and  clear  as  it  should,  a  little 
sweet  oil  rubbed  lightly  over,  and  cleaned  off  directly,  will 
greatly  heighten  it.  If  any  part  of  the  furniture  has  carving 
about  it,  where  it  will  be  impossible  to  polish,  it  must  be  done 
with  mastic  varnish,  and  a  camel's  hair  brush,  after  the  rest 
is  finiahedk 

When  the  polish  begins  to  look  dull,  it  nury  be  recovered 
with  a  little  spirit  of  wine.  « 

Polish  fir  Dining  Tables, 

Is  to  rub  them  with  cold-drawn  linseed  oil,  thus :— put  a 
little  in  the  middle  of  a  table^  and  then  with  a  piece  of  linen 
(never  use  woollen)  cloth  rub  it  well  all  over  the  table;  then 
take  another  piece  of  linen,  and  rub  it  for  ten  minutes, 
then  rub  it  till  quite  dry  with  another  cloth.  This  must  be 
done  every  day  for  several  months,  when  you  will  find  your 


408  vbmwIm  family  sscsiFrs. 

luahoffuiy  acquire  a  permanent  and  beautiful,  lustre,  iinftt- 
tainalSe  by  any  other  means,  and  equal  to  the  finest  French 
polish;  and  if  the  table  is  covered  with  the  tablecloth  only, 
the  hottest  dishes  will  make  no  impression  upon  it :  and  y^hmk 
once  this  polish  is  poroduced,  it  will  only  require  dry  ruining 
with  a  linen  cloth  for  about  ten  minutes  twice  in  a  week,  to 
preserve  it  in  the  highest  perfection ;  which  never  fails  to 
please  your  employers ;  and  remember,  that  to  please  others 
is  always  the  surest  way  to  profit  yourself. 

If  the  appearance  must  be  more  immediately  produced,  take 
some  FuRNiTVRB  Paste* 

To  prevent  duagreeabU  Smellafrom  Sinkss  ^. 

The  disgustful  eflluvia  arising  from  cabbage-water,  and 
the  various  ungrateful  odours  which  arise  from  the  sink  of 
kitchens,  drains,  &c.,  are  not  only  an  unnecessary  nnisance 
to  the  ^ood  folks  of  the  secona  table,  but  we  believe  such 
miasm  is  not  an  uncommon  cause  of  putrid  fevers,  &c.  &c. 

It  cannot  be  too  generally  known,  that  a  cheap  and  simple 
apparatus  has  been  contrived  for  carrying  off  the  waste  water, 
&c.  from  sinks,  which  at  the  same  time  effecbially  prevents 
any  air  returning  back  from  thence,  or  from  any  drain  con- 
nected therewith.  This  is  known  by  the  name  of  Stink  Trap, 
and  costs  about  five  shillings. 

No  kitchen  sink  should  be  without  it. 

To  prevent  Moths. 

In  the  nionth  of  April  beat  your  fur  garments  well  with  a 
small  cane  or  elastic  stick,  then  lap  them  up  in  linen  without 
pressing  the  fur  too  hard,  and  put  between  the  folds  some 
camphor  in  small  lumps ;  then  put  your  fun  in  this  state  in 
boxes  well  closed. 

M^en  the  furs  are  wanted  for  use,  beat  them  well  as  before, 
and  expose  them  for  twenty«four  hours  to  the  air,  whidi  wiM 
take  away  the  smell  of  the. camphor. 

If  the  fur  has  long  hair,  as  bear  or  fox,  add  to  the  camphor 
an  equal  quantity  of  black  pepper  in  powder. 

r 

PaUe. 

To  make  common  paste,  mix  one  table-spoonful  of  fkna 
with  one  of  cold  water,  stir  it  well  together,  and  add  two 
more  table-spoonfuls  of  water;  set  it  over  the  fire  and  give 
it  aboil,  stimngit  all  the  time,or  it  will  bum  at  the  bottom  of 
the  saucepan. 


(  409  ) 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  CARVING, 

*'  *  Have  yoa  leamed  to  carve  V  for  it  is  ridiculous  not  to  carve  well. 
*^  A  man  who  tells  you  mravely  that  he  cannot  carve,  may  as  well  tell  yea  that  he 
cannot  f^ed  himself;  it  Is  both  as  necessary  and  as  easy."— Lord  CHBSTKRriKLD's 

Next  to  giving  a  good  dinner,  is  treating  our  friends  with 
hospitality  and  attention,  and  this  attention  is  what  young 

geople  haye  to  learn.    Experience  will  teach  them  in  time, 
ut  tiU  ahey  acquire  it,  they  will  appear  ungraceful  and 
awkward. 

Although  the  art  cf  caroififf  is  one  of  the  most  necessary 
accomplishments  of  a  gentleman,  it  is  little  known  but  to 
those  who  have  long  been  accustomed  to  it;  a  more  useful 
or  acceptable  present  cannot  be  offered  to  the  public  than  to 
lay  before  them  a  book  calculated  to  teach  the  risiof  genera- 
tion how  to  acquit  themselves  amiably  in  this  matenal  part  of 
the  duties  of  the  table. 

Young  people  seldom  study  this  branch  of  the  philosophy  ' 
of  the  banquet,  beyond  the  suggestion  of  their  own  whuns 
and  caprices;  and  cut  up  things  not  qnly  carelessly,  but 
wastefully,  until  they  learn  the  pleasure  of  paying  butchers' 
and  poulterers'  bills  on  their  own  account. 

'Young  housekeepers,  unaccustomed  to  canring,  will,  with 
the  help  of  the  following  instructions,  soon  be  enabled  to 
carye  with  ease  and  elegance ;  taking  care  also  to  observe, 
as  occasion  may  offer,  the  manner  in  which  a  skilful 
operator  sets  about  his  task,  when  a  joint  or  fowl  is  placed 
before  kim. 

It  has  been  said,  that  you  may  judge  of  a  pertMDn's  charac* 
ter  by  his  handwriting;  you  may  juc^  of  his  conscience  by 
his  carving. 

Fail  carving  is  much  more  estimable  evidence  of  good 
nature  than  fair  writing:  let  me  see  how  a  gentleman 
carves  at  another  person's  table,  especially  how  he  helps 
himself,  and  I  will  presently  tell  you  how  far  he  is  of  Pope's 
opinion,  that 

"True  aelf-lova  and  social  are  the  same.'* 

The  selfish  appetites  never  exhibit  themselves  iq  a  niq>re 
unmasked  and  more  disgusting  manner  than  in  the  use  th«v 

M  m 


410 

exBile  a  maa  to  make  of  lus  knife  and  fedc  in  ennx^fyr 
kimaall^  espeeiaUy  when  DOl  at  his  own  coat* 

Some  keen  observer  of  hnman  nature  haa  said^  *«  WoiiU 
yon  know  a  man's  real  dispositionf  ask  him  to  dinner,  and 
five  himplemy  to  dhnk.** 

**TUt  Oraele**1nys, « kiTite  tfiejffinlMnn  ta  dinner,  cer- 
tainly, and  set  bim  to  earring.**    liie  gentleman  who  wishes 
to  ensore  a  beaitjr  welcoma*  end  frequent  inTitatlonB  to  the 
board  of  hosptality,  may  ealcnlate  with  Cockeiial  eorreei- 
ness,  that  **  the  easier  he  aplt)ears  to  be  pleased*  the  oftenei 
he  wiD  be  inrited.**    Instead  of  anblnshuigly  demanding  of 
te  fair  hoetMS,  that  the  prime  **tit4»t  of  every  diidi  be  pot 
on  his  pl^te,  he  must  receive,  (if  not  with  pLeaeme  or  even 
content,)  with  the  liveliest  expressions  of  thankfolness, 
whatever  is  presented  to  him;  and  let  him  not  foraet  to 
praise  the  com  (no  matter  whether  he  be  pleased  wiUi  hsr 
performance  or  not),  and  the  same  shall  be  reckoned  mto 
mm  even  as  praise  to  the  mistress.** 

*  if  he  does  not  like  his  fare,  he  may  console  himself  witb 
the  reflection,  that  he  need  not  expose  his  month  to  the  like 
moftiflcation  again.  Mercy  to  the  feelings  of  the  mistress 
of  the  mansion,  will  f<nbid  his  then  appearmg  otherwise  than 
abs<4ately  delighted  with  it,  notwithstaOidihg  it  may  be  his 
ciifcme  antipathy.  If  he  like  it  ever  so  little,  he  wifl  find 
occasion  to  congratulate  himself  on  the  advants^  his  diges- 
tive organs  will  deaive  ftom  his  making  a  moderate  dinner; 
and  consolation  from  contemplating  tSo  donble  relish  he  is 
creating  for  the  following  meal,  and  anticipating  the  rue  and 
delicious  aest  of  (that  best  sauce)  good  appetite,  and  an  nn« 
restrained  indulgence  of  his  gonrmandizii^  fancies  at  the 
cbm-house  he  freqnento.** 

Tiie  following  extract  from  that  rare  book,  OOiBs  Ross's 
Sekodfir  ike  Qfieen  eftfu  MnUh,  Ifimo.  1684,  shows  that 
the  art  of  carving  was  a  much  more  elaborate  amuriaxmeiiy 
than  it  is  at  (nresent. 

Lb  uRAiiD  Bsomrsa  tHANCBAirr,  &r  the  Chtai  MuUr  Carver* 

**  The  exercise  of  a  master  carver  is  more  noble  and  ccun* 
mendable,  it  may  be,  than  evei^  one  will  imagine ;  for  sup- 
poee  that  life  to  be  Hie  foondation  of  all  ths^  is  done  in  the 
worid,  this  life  is  not  to  be  sustained  witiiont  maintaining  onr 
natnral  heat  by  eating  and  drinking.'* 

Never  trust  a  cook  teaser  wim  the  important  office  of 
carver,  or  place  him  within  reach  of  any  principal  dish.  I 
shall  never  forget  the  following  eidiibition  of  a  selfish  spoiled 
dnld :  the  first  dish  that  Master  Johnny  mangled,  was  three 
mackerel ;  he  cut  off  the  upper  side  of  each  fish :  next  came 


CAHVINd.  4fl 

a  Gtm^e  of  fowls;  in  taMhg  off  the  win|fs  of  which  the 
jTOUAgf  gentleman  bo  hideously  hacked  and  miserably  mangled 
eveiy  other  part,  that  when  they  were  brought  for  luncheoU 
the  following  day,  they  appeared  as  if  just  removed  from  a 
concave  of  dainty  cats,  rather  than  having  been  carved 
by  a  rational  creature.  When  the  master  of  the  family, 
who  was  e^rtreloiely  near-sight^,  sat  down  to  his  nooning, 
in  expectation  of  enjoying  me  agreeable  amusement  of 
having  a  ' 

"Nicebftof  chiclren  • 

For  hii  owtt  private  iikkftiK, 

no  sooner  had  he  put  on  his  snecs,  and  begfun  to  focus  his 
fowl,  than  he  suddenly  startea  up,  rang  for  the  cook,,  and 
after liafing  vociferated  at  her  carelessness,  and  lectured  her 
for  being  so  extremely  perfunctory  and  disorderly  in  not 
keeping  *lhe  cat  out  of  the  cupboard^  till  his  appetite  for 
scolding  was  {Hretty  weH  satisfied,  he  paused  for  her  apology: 
the  guardian  genius  of  the  pantry,  to  his  extreme  astonish- 
ment, informed  him,  that  his  suspicions  concerning  the 
hideous  appearance  which  had  so  shocked  him,  was  erro- 
neous: sucn  unsigh:tly  havoc  was  not  Occasioned  by  tiie 
epicurism  of  a,/6tir-legged  brute,  and  that  the  fowls  were 
exactly  in  the  same  state  they  came  from  the  table,  and  that 
young  Master  Johnny  had  cut  them  up  himself. 

Those  in  the  parlour  should  recollect  the  imj^rtance  of 
setting  a  good  example  to  their  friends  at  the  second  table. 
If  they  cut  bread,  meat,  cheese,  &c.  fairly,  it  will  go  twice  as 
far  as  if  hacked  and  mangled  by  some  sensualists,  who  a{^ar 
to  have  less  consideration  for  their  domestics  than  a  good 
sportsman  for  his  dogs. 

A  prudent  carver  will  distribute  the  dainties  he  is  serving 
out  in  equal  division,  and  regulate  his  helps  by  the  proportion 
his  di^  bears  to  the  number  it  is  to  be  divided  among,  and 
considering  the  quantum  of  appetite  the  several  guests  axe 
presumed  to  possess. 

If  you  have  a  bird,  or  other  delicacy  at  table,  which  cannot 
be  apportioned  out  to  all  as  you  wish,  when  cut  up,  let  it  be 
handed  round  by  a  servant ;  modesty  will  then  pjrompt  the 
guests  to  take  but  a  small  portion,  and  such  as  perhaps  cOul4 
not  be  offered'to  them  without  disrespect. 

Those  chop-house  cormorants  who 

**  Critique  ywu  wine,  and  analyze  your  meat, 
Yet  on  plain  padding  deign  at  liome  to  eat," 

are  generally  tremendoualy  officious  in  serving  out  the  loaves 


4lft  CAKvme. 


and  fishes  of  other  piople ;  for,  under  the  notion  of  appeanof 
exquisitely  amiable^  and  killingly  agreeable  to  the  gfueslSf 
they  are  ever  on  the  watch  to  distribute  thems^ves  flie 
dainties*  which  it  is  the  peculiar  part  of  the  master  and  mis* 
tress  to  serve  out,  and  is  to  them  the  most  pleasant  part  of 
the  business  of  the  baoiquet ;  the  pleasure  of  helping  their 
friends  is  the  gratification  which  is  then:  reward  for  the  trouble 
they  have  had  in  preparing  the  feast :  such  p^entry  a^  the 
terror  of  all  good  nousewives ;  to  obtain  then:  favourite  cat 
they  will  so  unmercifully  mangle  your  joints,  that  a  lady*8 
dainty  Ismdog  would  hardly  ^et  a  meal  from  them  afterward; 
but  which,  if  managed  by  the  considerative  hands  of  andd 
housekeeper,  would  furnish  a  decent  dinner  for  a  large  fpoilj* 

The  man  of  manners  picks  not  the  best,  but  rather  tak^ 
the  worst  out  of  the  dish,  and  gets  of  every  thing  (unless  it 
be  forced  upon  him)  always  tli^  most  indifrerent  fare  by  this 
civility,  the  best  remains  for  others ;  which  being  a  cosofii' 
ment  to  all  that  are  present,  every  body  will  be  pleased  with 
it ;  the  more  they  love  themselves,  the  more  they  are  forced 
to  approve  of  his  behaviour,  and  i^ratitude  stepping  in,  they 
are  obliged,  almost  whether  they  wiU  or  not,  to  thinK  favoura- 
bly  of  him- 

After  this  manner  it  is  that  the  weU-bred  man  insinuates 
himself  in  the  esteem  of  all  the  companies  he  comes  in;  and 
if  he  gets  nothing  else  by  it,  the  pleasure  he  receives  in  re-? 
fleeting  on  the  applause  which  he  knows  is  seevetly  given  hinit 
is  to  a  proud  man  more  than  equivalent  for  his  lormer  sdf- 
denial,  and  overpays  self-love,  with  interest,  the  loss  it  sus- 
tained in  his  complaisance  to  others. 

If  there  are  seven  ur  eight  apples,  or  peaches,  among  peo- 
ple of  ceremony,  that  are  pretty  nearly  equal,  he  who  is  pre- 
vuledon  to  choose  first,  will  take  that  which,  if  there  be  any 
considerable  difference,  a  child  would  know  to  be  the  worst. 

This  he  does  to  insinuate,  that  he  looks  upon  those  he  is 
with  to  be  of  superior  merit ;  and  that  there  is  not  one  whoin 
he  does  not  love  better  than  himself.  Custom  and  general 
practice  make  this  modish  deceit  familiar  to  us,  without  being 
shocked  at  the  absurdity  of  it. 

''If  people  had  been  used  to  speak  from  the  sineeritvof 
their  hearts,  and  act  according  to  the  natural  sentiments  they 
felt  witMn,  tfll  they  were  three  or  four  and  forty,  it  :woidd  be 
impossible  for  them  to  assist  at  this  comedy  of  manneni 
without  either  loud  laughter  or  in^gestion ;  and  yet  it  is  eer- 

*  Hewbo  greedUyfrapples  ft>r  tiMprlaie  ptTfSf  exhibits  induliitable  evi^^"'* 
thai  b«  oame  lor  ttiat  purifOBe. 


CiXVUfQ.  413 

taia,  that  such  a  behaTioni  makes  us  more  tolerable  to  one 
another,  than  we  could  be  otherwise," 

The  master  or  mistresa  of  the  table  should  appear  to  con- 
tinue eatiug  as  long  as  any  of  the  company ;  ana  should,  ac- 
cordingly, help  themselTes  in  a  way  that  will  enable  them  to 
give  this  specimen  of  good  manners  without  being  particu- 
larly obaerred. 

"ll  belong  to  the  master  and  mistress,  and  to  no  one  else, 
to  desire  their  guests  to  eat,  and,  indeed,  earring  belongs  to 
nobody  but  the  master  and  mistress,  and  those  whom  they 
think  fit  to  desire,  who  are  to  deliver  what  they  cut  to  the  mas- 
ter or  mistress,  to  be  by  them  distributed  at  their  pleasure." 

A  seat  should  be  placed  for  the  carver  sufficiently  elevated 
to  give  him  a  command  of  tlie  table,  as  the  act  of  rising  to 
perform  this  duty  is  considered  ungracefuL 

The  carving-knife  should  be  light  and  sharp ;  and  it  should 
be  firmly  grasped;  althou^  in  using  it,  strength  is  not  as 
essential  as  skill,  particularly  iX  the  butcher  has  properly 
divided-lhe  bones  of  such  joints  as  the  neck,  loin,  and  breast 
of  veal  or  of  mutton. 

The  dish  should  not  be  far  from  the  carver ;  for  when  it  is 
too  distant,  by  occasioning  the  arms  to  be  too  much  extended, 
it  gives  an  awkward  appearance  to  the  person,  and  renders 
the  task  more  difficult. 

In  carving  fish,  care  should  be  taken  not  to  break  the  flakes, 
and  this  is  best  avoided  by  the  uss  of  a  fish  trowel,  which  not 
beine  sfaaip,  divides  it  better  than  a  steel  knife.  Examine 
this  Tittle  drawing,  and  you  will  see  how  a  cod's  head  and 
shoulders  should  tie  carved.  The  head  and  shoulders  of  a  cod 
contain  the  richest  and  best  part  of  this  excellent  fish. 

fig.  I. 


m  CAMVBtC, 

IliiB  flm  piece  aiv  ^  t*keii  off  in  die  diivction  ot  a  b, 

b]r  pDtting  in  the  trowel  Mtiwbmck  or  thick  part  of  tlteflah, 

wd  tbo  iwt  IB  raccewira  oider.    A  tmaU  put  of  the  wund 

Aoqld  be  given  with  ncit  sUca,  and  will  be  found  clow  tn 

tbe  Imtk-tioB,  ky  nieing  the  thin  Bap  d.    It  ia  known  by 

beuf  daiter  colmnred  and  more  tnuLmient  than  the  oibei 

putfof  the  fiflb.    AlnKKt  every jnit  of  a  cod's  heed  ia  cm* 

«ideied(oodtDMptfata,thetoa(aMlw  jelly,  and  firm  parts, 

«  •)  tfcm  wid  mmwdietriy  annind  the  taw  and  bones  of  tbe 

Head, «(«  eonaideied  aa  delicate  eating  by  many  persons. 

A  tM^ed  (owl  haa  Ae  legs  twnt  mwaid  (aee^.  3),  and 

batened  to  tne   aiaea  by  a 

Rg.  8.  Bkewer,  whidt  is  lamoved  be. 

fare  the  fowl  ie  sent  to  taUe. 

A  roaated  fowl  riioold  uM  have 

any  part  of  the  legs  cot  oB,  as 

In  the  boiled  fowl;  but  aAar 

th^    IwTfl    been     ■pmpetij 

scraped  and  waafaed,  they  •» 

drawn  together  at    flu  feiy 

n:trsnily  of  the  breast     A 

bmled  and  a  roasted  fowl  an 

each  carved  in  the  mmonan- 

ner.  lliewiflgaarotakeaeffiB 

the  diieelimoifato^Ob.s)- 

Yonr  knife  mmt  divide  the  joint,  but  afterward  yea  nave 

only  to  lake  fttm  tttU  of  du  pinitm  with  your  forii,  ^^w 

the  winga  tawwia  tte  legs,  and  you  will  find  thm  the  mnsdM 

a^ftiaie  better  then  if  you  cut  them  with  your  knife..   UiP 

yoor  knife  between  the  leg  and  Ae  body,  and  cut  to  tiw  bone. 

thm  with  the  totk.  tiDo  the  leg  back,  and,  if  the  fowl  be  not 

a  very  old  one,  the  joinU  wSl  give  way. 

After  the  four  quarters  are  thus  iwnoTed,  enter  the  knife  at 

the  breast,  in  the  direction  c  d 

fSg.9.  6^3), and  you  will  separate 

tne  merrytlMHight  from  the 

breaM-bime  i  and  by  placing 

your  knifo  irader  it,  lift  it  up< 

ling  it  tNkckward  on  the 


wesami 
dish,  ai 


more  that  mme.    The  colltf- 
oneachndelke 


the  knife,  and  (breed  towards  the  breastJxme,  tiU  the  (Wi 
which  is  fastened  to  it  breaks  off,    Ttic  breast  is  next  to  be 


CAKVINO.  415 

Hinnted  ftom  Um  cucasB,  by  cuUingr  tluough  the  lUn  on 
escb  Bide,  ftoai  tma  end  of  the  fowl  to  the  othei.    The  back 
is  then  laid  upwardi  and  the    ^'"Ut 
fig.  4.  paaaed  finnly  across  it,  near  the  middle,  . 

while  the  folk  lifts  141  the  other  end.    "Hie 
side  booe  are  lastly  to  be  aeperatad;  to 
,   do  which  turn  the  back  tram  you,  and  Mi 
each  side  the  back-bone,  in  the  direction 
^ggU'S-  *h  you  will  find  a  joint,  which 
you  must  separate,  and  the  cutting  iqi  of 
of  the  fowl  will  be  complete. 
Ducks  andpaitridgeaaretobecut  up  in  the  same  manners 
in  the  latter,  however,  the  merrythought  is  seldom  slanted 
froQi  the  breast,  unless  the  birds  are  very  large. 

Turkeys  and  geese  have  dices  cut  on  each  side  of  the 
bseast-bone,  and  ay  bsginung  lo  «at  firom  the  wiBf  iipwards 
to  the  lH«ast>bone,  mai^  more  slices  m^  be  obtai^i  than  if 
jrau  cut  from  the  bieast^Mme  to  Om  wmgs,  although  I  do  not 
ffaisk  the  slices  are  lyiite  as  handsome  as  if  cut  in  ttie  ktter 
method. 


Pigeons  (see^.  6)  are  either  cut  from 
the  neck  to  a,  which  is  the  fairest  way,  or 
Jiwn  A  to  c,  which  is  now  the  most  fashiona- 
ble mode ;  and  the  lower  part  is  esteemed 
die  beat. 


There  an  two  ways  of  carrine  a  hare.    When  it  is  young, 
the  knife  may  be  entered. near  ttie  shoulder  at  a  IttejigTT), 


358 


XASXKTINO  TABIJSS. 


Wild      do... 
Sucktaif  pifi.. 


HaiML.. 


OioiHe 

Moorguoe. 
Wooodeock 


June.. 
March. 


Do. 
October. 
AugoM.. 


November..  I 


All  tlieyeer 

TIU  February 

All  the  year. 

TiJ18epiembec...». 

TmMaRli 


CkeapMMt, 


November. 


1 


OocU*  conba,  fkt  Oven,  eoa,  Ace  are  ieamt  in  April  and  May,  aiidek«ape«t  la 

AoflML 

FowU*  beadi  nay  be  had  three  for  a  penny;  adoaen  wiU  make  a  very  good  pie 
or  •««•,  Uke  No.  M4. 

Turkey  beadai  about  a  pnuiy  eadi. 

Docli  gibiele,  about  three  batf-peooe  a  let;  four  leta  wfil  make  a  turtm  of  good 
oota  fwr  gispemct.    Bee  No.  9M. 

0*«.— Poultry  ia  in  greateet  perfection  when  in  greateet  plenty. 

The  price  of  it  varlea  as  much  as  the  aixe  and  quality  of  it,  and  the  jnipply  at 
market,  and  the  demand  for  it 

It  la  jnneraOy  dfCTMt  ftom  March  to  July,  when  the  town  is  flilleet ;  and  cAMp«< 
aboat  September,  when  the  game  seaaon  commences,  and  the  weather  being  colder, 
aUoWB  <»  its  being  brought  iron  more  distant  parts,  and  the  town  becomfiig  thin, 
there  is  Isbb  demand  for  It. 

The  above  iiufmmation  will,  we  trust,  be  very  acceptable  to  eeonomical  fluniUes, 
who,  flrom  hearing  the  very  high  price  poultry  sometimes  costs,  an  detoned  from 
ever  inquiring  about  it  In  the  cheap  seasons,  we  have  noted,  it  is  sometimes  as 
cheap  as  batcher's  meat 


VEGETABLES. 

The  poblic  are  frequently,  from  want  of  rq^'l'^  infbrmation  when  the -proper 
seasons  arrive  Ibr  vefEetaUes,  put  to  much  inconvenience  in  attending  the  markets, 
making  unnecessary  uquiries,  ice 

The  following  liit,  it  is  presumed,  will  afford  much  usefUl  information  to  the 
reader:— 


JVVmef  of  VegoUMoo. 


Artichokes  (No.  136) 

Ditto  Jerusalem  (No.  U7) . 

Angelica  stalks,  for  pre- 
serviog. 

Asparagus  {JHo.  IS3) 


Beans,  French,  or  Kidneys. 
Scartet  ditto 


KoirUeot  timu 
farforced. 


BMio. 

Jan.... 

Eariy  in 

Feb.... 


of 


} 


E<u4M9t 

natural  growth. 


July  on  to  October... 
From  Sept  to  June  | 

Middle  of  May,  ahd) 
whole  of  June....  > 

Mid.  of  April,  May,) 
June,  and  July...  ( 

End  of  June,  or  be-  > 
ginning  of  July..  ( 

July 


VThen 
ekeapeat. 


September. 
Nov.  Dec  ft 
fidl.  months. 

June. 

June  and 
July. 

August. 

September. 


secoiul  &nd  subsequenl  slices  should  be  cut  in  this  direction, 
imtU  you  are  stopped  by  the  cramp-bone  at  c ;  then  turn  it 
up,  and  take  the  regaining  slices  from  the  back,  iji  a  iongi' 
tudinal  direction.  When  the  leg  is  rather  lean,  hel^  some 
tkt  from  the  broad  end  with  each  slice.  The  beat  aud  most 
juicy  slices  ate  toward  the  broad  end:  but  some  persons 
prefer  the  knuckle :  and  where  economy  is  an  object,  the 
knuckle  should  always  be  eaten  when  the  joint  is  hot,  as  it 
becomes  very  dry  when  cold.  If  Uie  joint  is  to  be  brought 
again  to  table,  it  has  a  much  neater  and  more  respectable 
appearance  if  it  be  helped,  altogether,  from  the  knuckle  end, 
when  it  is  hot.  This  direction  may  appear  trifling;  but  a 
good  economist  knows  the  importance  of  carving,  when  tbe 
circumstances  of  a  fonuly  require  that  a  joint  te  broughl  a 
second  time  to  taUe. 
A  haunch  of  venison  ( Jig.  10)  should  be  cut  down  to  tbe 

Ftg.  10. 


418  CA1TU6. 

Lione  in  the  ilirecUoo of  the  lins aicby  which  means  the 
nsvy  is  allowed  to  flow  911! :  then  the  carrer,  tanuiiff  the 
broad  end  of  the  haunch  towitrd  him,  should  cot  in  deep 
from  b  tod.    He  then  cats  thin  slicet  in  the  saine  directioti. 


taking  care  to  give  to  esch  penon  whOH  he  helps  a  due  pro~ 
portion  of  fat,  which  is,  by  tovera  of  Tenisgo,  tughlv  prized : 
■here  ia  gtnenUly  mora  of  this  delicacy  ob  the  leit  side  of 


A  aadiSe  of  mtitMHi  {fy.  n)  a  cut  from  the  tail  to  tht 
Ftg.  It. 


end  on  each  aide  die  b«ek-bone.  in  the  directton  of  flie  lines 
■  (,  continuing  downward  to  the  edge  t,  tinlil  it  become  too 
fat.  The  slices  should  be  cut  thin,  and  if  the  joint  be  a  larae 
ODe>  thsy  may  be  divided  into  two  parts.  The  fsl  will  be 
found  on  the  sides. 

A  socking  |ng  is  out  up  before  it  is  sent  to  table.  The 
rips  may  be  divided  into  two  parts  as  well  aa  the  joints.  Hie 
ribs  are  consideTed  the  ftneat  part,  and  the  neck  end  under 
the  sboslder.  Part  of  the  kidneys  should  be  i^ded  to  each 
helping. 

A  shoulder  of  mutton,  if  properly  roasted,  is  supposed  to 
Shield  many  choice  pieces,  trat  this  depends  very  much  upon 
the  carver.  The  first  cut  should  be  in  the  direction  e  b  (j^. 
IS) ;  and.  after  taking  a  few  slices  on  each  side  of  the  g^> 


which  follows  the  first  cut.  some  rood  slices  may  be  obtained 
on  each  side  of  the  ridge  of  the  iaboulder  blade,  in  the  direc- 
tion c  d.  When  the  par^  is  numerous,  slices  may  be  taken 
friMn  the  under  side ;  and  it  is  on  this  side,  under  uie  edge  e, 
that  the  fat  ia  found.* 

Is  always  boiled,  and  requires  no  print  to  point  out  how  it 
should  be  carved.  A  thick  slice  should  be  cut  off  all  round 
the  buttock,  that  your  friends  mav  be  helped  to  the  juicy  and 
prime  part  of  it.  The  outside  tnus  cut.ofT,  thin  slices  may 
then  be  cut  from  the  top ;  but  as  it  is  a  diah  that  is  frequently 
brought  to  table  cold  a  second  day,  it  should  always  be  cut 
hanibome  and  even.  When  a  slice  all  round  would  be  con- 
sidered too  much,  the  half,  or  a  third,  may  be  given  with  a 
thin  slice  of  fat.  On  one  side  there  is  a  part  whiter  than 
ordinary,  by  some  called  the  white  muscle.  In  some  nlaces, 
a  buttock  is  generally  divided,  and  this  white  part  sold  sepa- 
rate, as  a  delicacy;  but  it  is  by  no  means  so,  the  meat  being 
coarse  and  diy;  whereas  the  darker-coloured  parts,  though 
apparentty  of  a  coarser  grain,  are  of  a  looser  texture,  move 
tender,  fuller  of  gravy,  and  better  flavoured;  and  men  of 
distioguishing  palates  ever  prefer  them. 


■  Anattao  vBf  of  urrini  t  ilKKilder  ol 


I  togmoiggM 


j 


I, 


INDEX. 


The  Tigonetiii  the  body  of  the  Index  refyr  to  the  Number  of  the  Eeeetpti ;  tboie  In 
the  eohmm,  under  the  word  Page,  to  where  the  Receiple  are  to  be  flMind;  t»A 
tiKMe  pnoeded  by  Am  to  the  Beceipte  |n  the  Appendii. 


* 8^ 


Acm  of  lemon,  aitiflcial,  407*< 
Accnm  on  AduHenitione,  quoted, 

note  to  433. ••  S80 

An  alderman  in  chame,  57. 135 

A4a-mode  beef,  or  veal,  or  Engilah 

turtle,90B 3IS 

A]lfliiiee,eMeiiceof,413 375 

'  tincture  of,  413. ib. 

.  Sir  H.  Sloane  on,  note*  ••  •    93 

Ahnond  ouatards  ( Ap.  54.) 375 

Anchovy  Bauce,S70 •  832 

eBwnce,433 379 

tDaat,573...... 354 

butter,  j  434 gg2 

paate,  J  **•  "" 

■   powder, 438...... ib. 

'  to  keep  tbem  well,  Oba.  to 

370. : 333 

ApiGiue,liiBaattoeforboiledchicken   35 
Appetite,  good,  why  the  beat  aauce   53 

totcneah 38 

Appert,  hia  art  of  preaerving  vegeta- 

Ue8,note 164 

Apple  pie  (Ap.  33.) 309 

■  ■        pudding,  boiled  ( Ap.  113.) ...  397 
—^—dumplinga,  ditto  (An.  113.)..   ib. 

-^ tait,creamed(Ap. &).....  369 

aauce,  304 ; 343 

Apple8,todry(Ap.B3.) 384 

Apricot  Jam  (Ap.  93.) 387 

Artichokea,  136 «  166 

I  Jeroaalem,117........  160 

Aaparagua,lS3...... .;....«.  161 

aoup,39B. 3U6 

Arrack,  to  Imitate,  480 399 

Arbttthaot,  Dr.,  quoted,  Prefhcei . .  •  viii. 
Abemethy,  Mr.,  quoted,  note.. .....    30 


Bacon,  13. 

■     1  aticea  of,  586 


117 
334 


reliaUng  raahem  oC;  SB7 ib. 

F>  apamib,  to  roaat^ 133 

Bain-Bfarie,noleto465aadaB0*  304.336 

Baking «• 73 

Bakes  eoataidCApw  53.) 375 

•'— —  penB(Ap.83.) 384 


K 


Barley  water,  565 ...«.^ 

btoth,304. 100 

'         to  make  a  gaOon  ft>r  a 

groat 310 

augar(Apw90^) *.,  388 

drope(Ap.91.)......., ib. 

Basil,  wbento^ 391 

vinegar,  or  wine^  387 360 

— — aauce,364 331 

Baiter  pudding  (Ap.  111.) 397 

Beans,  Freneta,  133 164 

Beauty 51 

Becbamel,364 357 

Beef  bQuilli,5.838.4B8.....100.3l3.  308 
— bow  nutiitive  and  economical,  5  109 

toaait,6 Ill 

aavourv,496 310 

aroundof,  aalted,  toboU,  7...  113 

— —  what  theoutaide  aticea  are  good 

lbr.N.B.to7. ib. 

II-Bone,a........ ib. 

riba,  and  ffoUed,  9. 114 

baronof. 34 

airioin,  roasted,  19 1S3 

— —  proper  way  to  carve,  in  note 

to  19 183 

aa  BDOck  taarcLM* 141 

^— riba,roaalied,90. 133 

ditto,  bomd  and  rolled,  81 134 

steaks,  to  fty,  85 148 

steak  pudding  (Ap.  31) 367 

season  for,  see  note  to  91 151 

Withonk>ns,e6 14S 

to  broil,  04. 1$] 

1— the  superlative  steak ib. 

- —  Maebeth's  reecipl,  and  le  vifr- 

ritahle  kif-teek  de  BeanvUliera, 

N.B.to»f 1S3 

tO8tew,500 311 

witb  onion  gnrvy,  301 313 

brolh,185 199 

broth  for  glaae,  or  portable 

aoup  or  aauce,  38B. SS3 

gravy,  186. I9« 

— —  atrong  aravy,  108.. tti. 

-^-dUtta^UO....... IMI 

n 


964  FAsnffy  &e* 

nUets  bsr  tin  cold»  otherwise  liie  heat  of  the  giblets  Witt  sp^ 
the  pesle  yon  cover  the  pie  with :  dien  eeaedtithe  whi^  wiUi 
Uaot  pepper  and  eah,  and  pot  thean  into  a  deep  dish;  eoiver 
it  witfi  paste  as  diieeted  in  No.  8,  mb  it  orer  witfi  yelk  of 
egg,  omament  and  bake  it  an  hoar  and  a  half  in  a  moderate 
oren:  in  the  meantidte  take  the  liquor  the  giblets  were 
stewed  in,  skim  it  free  finom  fat,  pot  it  over  a  &t&  in  a  clean 
stew-pan,  thicken  it  a  litOe  with  ftoor  and  batter,  or  floor  and 
water,  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  joice  of  half  a 
lemon;  add  a  few  drops  of  browning,  strain  it  through  a  fine 
sieve,  and  when  you  take  the  pie  from  the  oven,  pour  some 
of  this  into  it  throngh  a  fonneL  Some  lay  in  the  bottom  of 
the  dish  a  moderately  thick  ramp-steak :  if  you  have  any  cold 
or  poultry,  cut  it  in  pieces,  and  add  it  to  the  above. 


Bmi^lhSteak  Py«.— {No.  15.) 

Cut  three  pounds  of  rump-steak  (that  has  been  kept  tiO 
tender)  into  pieces  half  as  big  as  your  hand,  trim  off  aU  tiie 
skin,  smews,  and  every  part  which  has  not  indisputable  pre- 
tensions to  be  eaten,  and  beat  them  with  a  chopper:  enop 
very  fine  half  a  dozen  eschalots,  and  add  them  to  half  an 
ounce  of  pepper  and  salt  mixed ;  strew  some  of  the  mixtora 
at  the  bottom  of  die  dish,  then  a  layer  of  steak,  then  some 
more  of  the  mixture,  and  so  on  tiH  the  dish  is  fidl ;  add  half 
a  gill  of  mushroom  catchup,  and  the  same  quantity  of  gravy, 
or  red  wine ;  cover  it  as  in  the  preceding  receipt,  and  bake 
it  two  hours. 

N.B.  Laige  oysters,  parboiled,  bearded,  and  laid  alter- 
nately with  the  steaks,  their  liquor  reduced  and  substituted 
histead  of  the  catchup  and  wine,  will  be  a  variety. 

Oitdben  Pte.— (No.  16.) 

Parboil,  and  then  cut  up  neatly  two  young  chickens ;  dry 
them;  set  them  over  a  tdow  fire  for  a  few  minutes;  have 
ready  some  veal  stuffing  or  forcemeat  (No.  374  or  No.  375), 
lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  place  in  the  chickens 
tiiK>n  it,  and  witii  it  some  pieces  of  dressed  ham ;  cover  it 
with  paste  (No.  1).  Bake  it  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two 
hours;  when  sent  to  table,  add  some  good  gravy,  well 
seasoned,  and  not  too  thick. 

Duck  pie  is  made  in  like  manner,  oidy  substituting  the 
duck  stuffing  (No.  378),  instead  of  the  veal. 

N.B.  The  above  may  be  put  into  a  raised  French  cmst 
(see  No.  18)  and  baked;  when  done,  take  off  the  top,  and 
put  a  ragodt  of  sweetbread  to  the  chicken. 


413 


V 


OutioiM.toiB 
Otomnnt,  boir  to  mak^  404> . 
\ot,^ 


44 

973 


€iria(yMtip,914. 


CbMpwus 
raiM  I 


98 
SflS 
376 

908 


l0Mt)538*S3»..-. 

toaMled,MO 

bnttand  ditto,  MI 

poumM  or  potted,  MS. 

(Ap.40.) 

ieiiiOD,  ditto  (Ai».4i.) 
orange,  ditto  (Afft.  49^) 
alBMHid,  ditto  (Ap.  43.) 


Cherrice,  dried  (Ap.  91). . 

Cbenril  MMce,  994 

Ch{Uvliie8ais40S* 

wiDe,4W 

Cbieken.    See  Fowl. 

pi»(Ap.l9.) 

■  .    ■   ■    and-  bam  mtties  (Ap,2ft.) 

Cliope,  mutton,  pork,  beef,  to  brdii, 

94 

to  fry,  88. 

toatew,490. 

reUBhll>r,493. 

.  ■■  ■■  aaooe  for, 3S6 

Cinaamm,  eawn^e  o^  416 

■    tinctaw  of,  418* 

Claret,  best  wine  for  niieeB,  dus. .. . 

aarifiedBynip,475 

aarlfy  biotii,  to,  989* 

Clove  and  amoe,  eeeenee  of, 414. ..  v 
■  ■  tinetureof,  415. . . . 

Cockle  oatebup,  449 

Cod,  boiled.  149 

•*-^  tbe  tai^  iOetted*  note  under  140 

sHeeebeHedjlSl 

ikull  stewed,  IS8 

'-^  shaved^  and  scM  ftr  whitingB, 

Obs.tolS3. 

Cbld  meat,  to  broil  with  poaebed 

—— dkiot  to  warm,  tbe  best  way.. . 
-«-98h 

.    .      sauce  lbr,483. 399,  and  307 

^.955. 

veal,  airenellent  diahof,  51S. . 

fowl,  difto^  533 

Oolourbig  for  soup  and  sauce^  998. . 

■  ■  I  a  fiequeot  eauaeof  adoi-- 

teration,  399. 

Cbmmitteeef  taste 

CMisommd^  858 •• 

GSoibe,tomake..< 

Cooks,  fliendly  ad  vice  to. 

hints  to 

—  dittoj  when  they  have  a  very 

lariediBiier 


331 

ib. 

ifo. 
371 
379 

ib. 

ib. 
387 
931 
373 

ib. 

3M 


151 
14B 
307 
978 
855 
976 

ib. 

95 
997 
987 
976 

ib. 


1T8 

ib. 

174 

177 

175 

304 
M 
53 

343 
319 


946 

947 

17 

93S 

340 

46 

S3 


' 


Oooki,  eaumof  tbt  auicitt  of  8mA 

310 

jest 93 

— — —  a  manor  given  te  oae  by 

WilUamtheOommsrar. 98 

Oba-ceMenaactlmirlMaltk. 

note 96 

Cook4eaaer,  wtaa  Mt  to  pat  hfan   44 
Cooldnf  animals,  dine  only  onee  a 

month,  note 17 

Cookery,  DsscaitBs*a  ebeii  rations 

on..>« ..*«..« ....•.••    19 

—^— Dr.  Jetanson^s  ditto 90 

tlieoryoi;note ib. 

■  ■    '   importance  of..* H 

■  ■        Dr. Stark vil- 

thcanalepttepartofpbyBic    10 

Dr.  Iiandeviile7 ....vilL 

Arbnthnot ib^ 

I    ■■■.  ■  FarmcntiBr..". i. 

■    ■       Bylveeter's  Oba.  on,  note. .    9(^ 

Iwst  books  on,  note ib.- 

— — ~—  theory  of  the  procesws  of; 
ftmn  tiie  Eneyctopadia  Brit,  neie  ib. 

opinion  of  a  cook  on  books 

or.. 38 

Cbqnufl  M agnoa,  or  Master  Kitch- 
ener     98 

CoolUfl,  or  thickened  gravy,  188....  ]95 

CotmtPMrit, 04 

Crab^  to  boU,  177. 188 

Crawfish  soup,  935. 911 

^tm,  pounded  aUve,  re- 

coBBmended  by  M one.  Oermont, 

935. lb. 

Cream,  ckrated,  388.'. 987 

Craiibenytwt(Ap.37.) 370 

Croquante  of  pm^  (Ap.  86.) 3BS 

Cottage  potato jmddlng  (Ap.  115.). ..  308 

Crisp  pmaley,  318 945 

Curram  jelly,  479* 906 

Curry  powder.  485. 987 

8oap^940 992 

— — 8ance,348. 9M 

ba{to,le9: 906 

to  diem,  487 811 

Curasoa,  Iww  to  make,  474.  ■  ...    996 

Custard  puddfaig 3f7 

Cider  cup,  485 904 

Culinary  cttriosltles 38 

Crane 34 

Curlews. lb. 

Catingely. Ib. 

Corks. « 106 

Cement  for  sealfai|  bottlep ih. 

Caw-caw  bonee,  If.  B.1 108 

Cow  heel,  to  dram,  18* 1911^ 

Crem  sauce,  964.... 

— 'VinegaTidOT* • 

Cucumber,  stewed,  133 165 

———vinegar,  309. 979 

—to preserve (Ap.98L)....  999 

CttrMpstew,  1S8.......\ 177 

Chvhy,U0|jeatest'*  ••••••••»••>•   94 


366  PA8TR7,   dLC. 

P.S.  The  aboye  is,  I  think,  a  good  way  of  dressing  a  niiall 
ham,  and  has  a  good  effect  cold  for  a  supper. 

Feal  and  Ham  Pte.-<No.  dO.) 

Tftke  two  pounds  of  veal  cutlet,  cut  them  in  middLing- 
sized  pieces,  season  with  pepper  and  a  veiy  little  salt ;  like- 
wise one  of  raw  or  dressed  nam  cut  in  slices,  lay  it  alter- 
nately in  the  dish,  and  put  some  forced  or  sausage  meat  (  No. 
374,  or  No.  375)  at  the  top,  with  some  stewed  button  mush- 
rooms, and  the  yelks  of  wee  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  gill  of 
water ;  then  proceed  as  with  rump-steak  pie. 

N.B.  The  best  end  of  a  neck  is  the  fine  part  for  a  pie,  cut 
into  chops,  and  the  chine  bone  taken  away. 

Raised  Pork  Pi«.— (No.  21.) 

Make  a  raised  crust,  of  a  good  size,  with  .  paste  (as  di- 
rected in  No.  5),  about  four  inches  high ;  take  the  rind  and 
chine  bone  from  a  loin  of  pork,  cut  it  into  chops,  beat  them 
with  a  chopper,  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  iUl 
your  pie ;  put  on  the  top  and  close  it,  and  pinch  it  round  the 
edge ;  rub  it  oyer  with  yelk  of  egg,  and  bake  it  two  hours  with 
a  paper  over  it,  to  prevent  the  crust  from  burning*  When 
done,  pour  in  some  good  gravy,  with  a  little  ready-mixed 
mustsud  (if  approved). 

N.B.  As  the  above  is  generally  eaten  cold,  it  is  an  ex- 
cellent repast  for  a  journey,  and  will  keep  for  several  days. 

Ed  Pie.^No.  22.) 

Take  eels  about  half  a  pound  each ;  skin,  wash,  and  trim 
off  the  fin  with  a  pair  of  scissors,  cut  them  into  pieces  three 
inches  long,  season  them  with  pepper  and  sah,  and  fiU  your 
dish,  leaving  out  the  heads  and  tails.  Add  a  gill  of  water  or 
veal  broth,  cover  it  with  paste  (No.  2),  rub  it  over  with  a 
paste-brush  dipped  in  yelk  of  egg,  ornament  it  with  some  of 
the  same  paste,  bake  it  an  hour;  and  when. done,  make  a 
hole  in  the  centre,  and  pour  in  the  following  sauce  through 
a  funnel:  the  trimmings  boiled  in  half  a  pint  of  veal  stock, 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of  lemon« 
juice,  and  thickened  with  flour  and  water,  strained  through 
a  fine  sieve :  add  it  boiling  hot. 

Raised  Lamb  Ptef.*— (No.  23.) 
Bone  a  loin  of  lamb,  cut  into  cutlets,  trim  them,  very 


niDSx. 


425 


FowIb,  Apiidiis*Bniicefiir 
FnDelibeaiii,133 


pickled  <Ap.  IIB.). . . . 

tart  of  preserved  fruit  CAp. 


408 


35.) ~. ^> 370 

—- bread  and  roOs  (Ap.  lOO*).. .  300 

Protb  roast  meat,  to. 78 

Fraggen  frjod, 34 

Fare,  bUI  of,  for  a  week 96 

Frying 80 

Flavour,  agmitB  evploved  to  soups 

and  saoosB.  noS  under IM 

FkNinders,  fried  or  boiled,  155. 175 

Fritters,  558.... 344 

Fkuit,  to  preserve,  witboat  sugar 

(Ap.6l.)....r. 390 

Game,  to  render  immediately' ripe 

Ibrroastiog. 58 

80up,S48. 816 

Oarlic  vinegar,  400 870 

sattee,87S. 833 

gravy,311 944 

QibMs,  stewed,  531. 

soup,  344.... 

pie  (Ap.  14.) 


816 

363 

Gberkins(Ap;;il7.) 408 

Gigot de Sept  Hear  s,N.B.  to  L...  108 

Ginger,  essence  of,  411 875 

—  preserved  (Ap. 97.).... 380 

Qinger«readnttts(Ap.76.) 388 

Goose,  Dr.fltark  says  is  tbe  most 

atttiitlveibod 138 

toroastfSO 137 

dlttt»,attve. 33 

to  pennade  one  to  roast  lUm- 

aelf!! ib. 

..i_^  how  tbe  liver  is  fbttened  for 
tbe  0traebwg  pies.    In  note  to  90  137 

-——to bash, So. «....  386 

gpewi>,6a 138 

moek,91 131 

bonne  boache  for.  341 851 

reli8hfor,341 ib. 

Gourds,  VMfteus  ways  of  dressing. .  3tt 

GouRMAMD  defined,  note 17 

Gourraaadiae,  to    guard    against, 

note 94 

Gooseberry  sauce,  863 Si31 

GftAvr,  read  the  Sib  chapter  of  the 

Radimenlsof  Ckmkeoy 100 

for  poultry,  r^piAts,  ^n 
...... *;»;»* ...............  940 

onion,  880 841 

-garile,3U 844 

|ame.337. 851 

for  wikl  duck,  338.. ib. 

'  roasted  meat,  386. 948 

boiled,98r 849 

for  salted   or 


for  grids  and  broils,  dec.,  395  854 
forebopsaad  steaks,  356...  859 
ifliibforch<vaaiid8teaks,4n  878 

No  8 


Gravy,forcoldmeBtor  poultry,  dee., 

390. r?;..?.....'  859 

'     '    bashes  of  mutton,  ^.,  360..  856 

•——^  ditto,  veal,  361 857 

for  venison,  of  wine,  344....  853 

ofvinegar,345 :.   ib. 

for  veiUBon,  of  cozvaatieBy, . 

346. .T..'   lb. 

— ^ofBmtton,347 ib. 

-»—— brown cok>uringfor> 398....  846 

— ' — portable,  853. 823 

soup,80a 196 

—^  vegetable,  dittot  894..** 907, 

Green  pease,  134 164 

— — ^soap,816. 903 

malgre, ditto, 817...: ib. 

Green  gages,  preserved  in.  syrup 

(Ap.96.) 388 

GriU  sauce,  355 * 854 

Grouse,  7:^ 144 

Gr^el.    wator,    various  ways   of 
making  and -flavouring,  578b.  »..  398 

Guinea  fowl,  60* 143 

Glasse,  Blrs.,  her  Cookery 80 

Gridiron. 89 


Haddock,  197 

—  Findhom,  ditto,  197* 

HaggiB,agood«ootdi,488* 

Hano,  to  boil,  14. 

^— to  pot,  509. 

slices  of  broUed,  896 

'  ■  ■  cisfioncc  ol^  351 

— ^  when*  to  buy,  ditto,  351 

Hare,  roast,  68 

Jugged,  980*.. .t ,. 

soup,  941 

mock,  66* 

—>  bashed,  589 

pie(Ap.Il.) 

Haricot  of  mnttoo,  lamb,  veal,  or 

De^s , 4ov« ....  ....  ....  ........... 

——^of  beef,  409... 

Haabes,  mutton,  484 

to  warm  up,  489 

beef,  486 '. 

veal,  511 

— — —  venison,  588; 

cold  caira  head,  519. 

ditto,10. 

calfs  headorragD9t,gM... 

———hare,  580 

—duck  or  goose,  930 

poultry,  gaoM,  or  rabUt,  933 

sauce  for,  360 

Haunch  (see  H.)  bone  of  beef,  8. . . . 

HertM,  when,  and  bow  to  dnr,  401. . 

Herringi,  pidded,  171 

brailed,17I* 

_redditto^l78L 

Horseradish  powder,  498*. ••••«... 
vinegar,  369* 


176 
ib. 
305 
118 
318 
384 
354 
ib. 
140 
389 
815 
141 
3K 


306 

310 
303 
304 

ib. 
318 
385 
381 
114 
381 
335 


896 
113 
800 
185 
ib. 
186 


Housekeeplag,  plin  of. 

nWWP^ba  #  a 


870 
87 
ib. 


9M  TABTMYf  d&G. 

OjflUr  FattJM^No.  96.) 

BoQ  out  Doff  paste  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  into 
aqnaive  with  a  knife,  vheet  eigiitor  ten  patty  pans,  pot  upon 
each  a  bit  of  bvead  the  tize  of  half  a  wahmt;  n^  out 
another  larer  of  paete  of  the  same  thidmeae^cut  it  aa  abore, 
wet  the  ewe  of  the  bottom  paete,  and  put  on  the  top»pare 
them  round  to  the  pant  an4  notch  them  about  a  dozen  tunes 
with  the  back  of  the  knife,  rub  them  lightly  with  yelk  of 
eff^,  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour: 
when  done,  take  a  thin  slice  off  the  top,  then,  with  a  small 
knife  or  spoon,  tsike  out  the  bread  and  the  inside  paste, 
leaTing  the  outside  quite  entire ;  then  paobcHl  two  dozen  'of 
lai^ge  oysters,  strain  them  from  their  liquor,  wash,  beard,  and 
cot  them  into  four,  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  ¥rith  an  ouAce 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  half  a  gill  of  aood  cream,  a  litae 
grated  lemon-peel,  the  oyster  Uquw,  fiee  from  sediment, 
le^ieed  by  boiling  to  one  halC  some  Cayenne  pe^ier,  lE^t, 
and  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon-jmce;  stir  it  over  a  Are  fire 
nunotes,  and  fill  the  patties. 

LobtUr  PaUies.'-iNo.  27.) 

Prepare  the  patties  as  in  Ae  last  receipt.  Take  a  hen 
lobster  akeady  boiled;  pick  the  meat  from  the  tail  and 
claws,  and  chop  it  fine ;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  tittle 
of  the  inside  spawn  pounded  in  a  mortar  till  quite  ^nooth, 
an  oonce  of  fresh  butter,  half  a  gill  of  cieam,  and  half  a 
gill  of  real  consomni§,  Cayenne  pej^r,  and  salt,  a  tea* 
spoonful  of  essence  of  aochoiTf  ^  same  of  lemon-juic^, 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  and  water:  stew  it  fire  miniites. 


Feal  and  Ham  Patties.^No.  98.) 

Chop  about  six  ounces  of  ready-dressed  lean  veal,  and 
tlnree  ounces  of  ham  very  small ;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with 
an  ounce  of  butter  rolled  into  flour,  half  a  gill  of  cieam ; 
half  a  gill  of  veal  stock ;  a  little  grated  nutmes  and  lemon- 
peel,  smne  Cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  a  qxKiald  of  essence 
^  ham  and  lemon-juice,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  some  time^ 
takmg  care  it  does  not  bum. 

C^ideen  and  Ham  PaUies.-^ff^o.  29.) 

Use  (he  white  meat  from  the  breast  of  chickens  (M'ibwlSf 
and  proceed  as  in  the  last  receipt* 


4i7 


Mflle  flMttlffl  <Ap.  44.)».«^>. ».  * vS 

HborgimeilS 144 

lforeli)OlM.oii 80 

lluUed  wtaie,  aroBHiic,  «Menee  ftr, 

418. .aro 

MaMaid,  tooiiftkeiSSO^..^ S59 

loinaketo«Mlaate,ae0.»   ib. 
,    dittrt|tokgepy48T».p*«.>.  978 


Maiawn,  bariMvoM,  o! 

cenktf^. 99 

■  goodrffccteof good».<«..    4S 

bad  elfeetB  of  bair 43 

MfWBiimidawmMB 31 

Iteat,  bow  long  it  nuut  luuig  to  be 

tender. 87 

«— Iffteceo ib. 

liiyiBg  it  by  eleetrieity  malM  it 

tender  immeuat^ 58 

IfarlceciBf 81 

— — — — -bestnriefinr. ib. 

— dilttK X 

XARKiviiwTABHs,  for  neat....  26$ 

*  'iPttltry 387 

■  ■  vegelablee...  388 

Meatehreea 77 

Meateaikes,884« 318 


Ifetton,  to  boU  a  lee,  1 188 

—— neek,9... 188 

MwteBtfla. 194 

roaat,  a  Iqr, 94. 195 

dittOj  eadSe,  98 ib. 

Bheoider,97. ib. 

loki,98. ik 

iieek,98 138 

breast,3(K ib. 

■  lUHiiioh,31 ib. 

•ditte^Teniaeafaabioii,39....   ib. 

or  Teal  pie  (Ap.  10.) 388 

>ebepB,flill; 158 

ditto,  stewed,  480. 307 

bietlijl04.584. 188l3S8 

HM)ek,196^ 187 


leiiaeli,484 
baiieot,488 

ditto,  bfown,  308. d43 

extempore,  307 ib. 

eatclittp,43B. 

Vriateewnce  of,  440. 


Marrow  bcHMs,  544 
vefetaMe 


Maflliie(Ap.]89L) 381 

NMm6g,tiiiotiireof,4]3*..... 998 

'     grater,  tlie  bet 65 


Oneleite^  648* 

C«iioii,Obe.eikOotfr. 98 

|dekled(Ap.]Sa) 408 

■tewed,197 186 

•yoaBf,aaiiee,308. 9<8 

'taace,  98«t*.%. .•«.•»••  (v^  *  •   ib. 


OBioiLa8iice,«liite,Sfl8 ..•.«.•  sS 

■  ■  ill  '        hmwfa»»K 941 

-^-^■a9eand,aoa......... lb. 

Oiaogeje8y(Ap.47.) 333 

tfggerbiead  (Afi.75.). 388 

Oigeat  (Ap.81.) 383 

Oz«beek,fltewed,507. 317 

portable  eoup  of;  959. 


Ox  taiki»9tewod,S88. 318 

QK.]MMd  soap.  939 913 

OxtaUfloiip,^..^, .,..  914 

Ox  lieel  jelly,  198. 197 

soup,  940* 914 


OyiteffB,  bow  to  feed  and  nresenre 
tbeir  liyee,  and  liow  tt>  tickle  tbran 
todeatb,idl 180 


eerttdnlynot  to  ni]tiitiT« 

as  auppoeeti,  N.B.  to  181 

native,  tboae  tbtt  ate  born 


190 


ftave,ti] 
in  the 


and  bied  in  tbe  Biunhaoi  riveok 

BotetolSL... m 

ewenceo^441 985 

eeaUoped^ied 191 

.v8tewed,189*.» 199 

<-ftied»183. ib. 

-881106,978....... I3i 

preeenred  in  powder,  IKO..  934 


■*iWi 


•«-^-<^^pattie8(Ap^96.). 358 

08borae,H.GiMktDafrJ.BaQlu    xi.58 

345 


dilfti^Ma  reeeipte  Am:  pud- 


dliig8,4te.,. 
OatmeaL  a   Bilbiiltliite  fiir  bread 
enuBfao,noie....* «...   83 

Faiicake8,55& 344 

PBiegQKie«Uxlr,5n)....*....«....^  353 

PJMiifiacopaiia,  Amendix  to* ..... .    x. 

Pain)entieE,<|aotea,PiefiM:e..^.'..»  ih^ 

Panley  and  butter,  961 830 

— ^-*tppra8enNi,NJI.lo9|l 931 

^ftied,317. 915 

-"*^e«top,318 946. 

PaKridgse^ 143 

■  ■■  >epnp,941 ...'915 

Paste  fer  eroquanta,  or  cut  posny 

(Ap.&) 361 

— •— fiirBieatorsavouiy|He8(Ap.&)  360 

ibr  boiled  p«ddiiWB(Ap.  8.)...  361 

~..-fi)r8trittgiiKtavtlei8»8BC.(Apk7.)  lb. 

Pease,  to  boU,  134... 184 

^-«-~  pudding,  555 343 

■      ■  ■  ■  how  to  Make  ibr  iMdf 

theusiial  expense,  note  to 556....   ibw 
^91&@ 908. 9U5 


-«—*  ditto,  in  fiva  n^qotoi^  Oba.  to 

555. 343 

—— curry  pease  soop^  note  lo  918  995 

eelery  ditto,  ditto,  918. 904 

^-— plain  pease  soap,  991 908 

Par8BiDri9§.~.. 183 

Peristaltic  penoadeoa. SO 

PeptkPi«eeptB,qiioied... ik 

Pease  powder.  4a8L 980 

Peich,fVied,158. ,...  170- 


370  9AaTBYf  d&c. 

or  any  other  kind  of  jam  (No.  93),  in  the  centre ;  take  i»8te 
(No.  7),  and  string  them  crossways ;  bake  them  from  six  to 
ten  minutes  in  a  quick  oven :  they  should  be  of  a  veiy  light 
brown  colour. 

French  Tart  of  preserved  FndL — (No.  36.) 

Cover  a  flat  dish,  or  tourte  pan,  with  tart  paste  (No.  4), 
about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick ;  roll  out  puff  paste  (No.  1), 
half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  it  out  in  strips  an  inch  wide ;  wet 
the  tart  paste,  and  lay  it  neatly  round  the  pan  by  way  of  a  rim ; 
All  the  centre  with  jam  or  marmalade  of  any  Kind,  ornament 
it  with  small  leaves  of  puff  paste,  bake  it  half  an  hour,  and 
send  it  to  taUe  cold. 

N.B.  The  above  may  be  filled  before  the  puff  paste  is  laid 
on,  neatly  strung  with  paste,  as  No.  7,  and  the  rim  put  over 
after.  - 

Obs. — The  most  general  way  of  sending  touHes  to  table, 
is  with  a  croquante  of  paste  (No.  86),  or  a  caramel  of  spun 
sugar  (No.  85),  put  over  after  it  is  baked. 

Small  P^ffi  (f  preserved  FrwV.— (No.  36.) 

^ 

Roll  out,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  good  puff  paste  (No. 
1),  and  cut  it  into  pieces  four  inches  square ;  lay  a  small 
quantity  of  any  kind  of  jam  on  each,  double  them  over,  and 
cut  them  into  square,  triangle,  or,  with  a  tin  cutter,  half 
moons;  lay  them  with  paper  on  a  baking-plate;  ice  them 
(as  at  No.  31),  bake  them  about  twenty  minutes,  taking  care 
not  to  colour  the  icing. 

Cranberry  Tart.— (No.  37.) 

Take  Swedish,  American,  or  Russian  cranberries,  pick 
and  wash  them  in  several  waters,  put  them  into  a  dish,  with 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  moist  or 
pounded  Idaf  sugar,  to  a  quart  of  cranberries.  Cover  it 
with  puff  TNo.  1)  or  tart  paste  (No.  4),  and  bake  it  three 
quarters  of  an  hour;  if  tart  paste  is  used,  draw  it  from  the 
oven  five  minutes  before  it  is  done,  and  ice  it  as  No.  31  ^ 
return  it  to  the  oven,  and  send  it  to  table  cold. 

Mnce  Ptes.^No.  3^.) 

Sheet  with  tart  paste  (No.  4),  half  a  dozen  of  tin  pans  of 
any  size  you  please ;  fill  them  with  mince  meat  (No.  39), 
and  cover  with  puff  paste,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  trim 


430 


1 


397. 


Upf  **  ••■^•y*  ■•■"•i^ 


dItlafbrwUi 

tfitiioroBk»,9n. 

diaooriMlicSll 
Anoltar 


Ml 
M4 


^tno  Air  tailed  dkio.  31 
Air  boiled 


▼iacfirftirvailMHStf. 


lb. 
ib. 


1brmtm,95 

tar  &n  MMl  UMlu,  aas. 


fiorooUi 


of 


fbr  ditto  of  vcdf  Ml « «•  < 
relii^Atrebop^r 


i 

991 


kttO|nvTi311 M4 

ditto  Ttocnr,  400. 930 

M.  KeUyX  Ibr  calfl  bond  or 

kMl,ni* v..  944 

ditto,  ditto,  y^n«irtt,lU*..   lb. 

tanoB,OTnipdll;90l 987 

lanoBMrte  o  likMte,  477. .  .907. 
loBoiLfn...  «.....«• , 


ditto.  014  IWof,  or  iMirtij 

Uvor  loafle,  907 

Uvor,  for  flilL908...* 

loboter,9B4 

te'lob«0r,9O9 997 

niMfcerel rocuM .'...  931 

grannlMjSiB 942 

mMBrooBi,  305^  «••.••*.•••  9tt 

dttto,  broim,  901 '•  913 

ditto, la llvoBiiaiiiM, 907...  lb. 
■MttBid,toiiiake,370......  990 

dlttO,|BOIBlBUte,3aOL lb. 

ditto,  to  hKp,  497. 978 

0Snler.9re S34 

bottlra,  ditto,  9iO<  •*«•*••.*-  <lb. 
otiloB,  907. ••*•>•••..•#... •  940 
ditto,  wbhe,  for  ittbbMI,  4fcc 

...» Ib. 

7oaiKooloii,9D6 Ib. 

Med.  or  brown  ooloa,  990. .  941 

ngevHlAnkm.300 •...  lb. 

ozbeolJeny,lWL m 

Miilqf  and  butter,  901 Mt 

dfoo,&ied,8l7 ;»9I4 


310. % 

9w: 
» 

lanXSWw M 

SSrft!?::::::::S 

,j457 « 

lOOd 

rtce,an»^^*'1 2 

floladarixtaie,379 <*•  J 

mperiatlve,  489.  .>-•>•••;•  S 

box,  408 •^'  S 

SkfOf  MKute  (A|k6i.) S 

flavoyo,  190 5 

Bovonry  ooit  beef.  4«l. ..  •  •  -  •  •••;  •  Jg 
8MtNir7pie%|MOlieo»d^<A|^)- » 

Soup  lierbBow4er,  or  irgog"**^  ***  cm 

llab,4S0 5 

8brtaiipi,|Mtte4L17S. » g 

SliriJBpmioewnS 2 

8brttb,470 • 

flaioHp«lfcof  |«uwjifodilwi»tWy^ 

9&)...  r>..^.  •••  >>•• • |« 

SnlpcB,  77 ♦••• ^ 

&Mla  water,  Obo.  OB,  ncce. ^ 

Borrol  Mace,  9n SS 

»'S"^/*f*lr.:::-.:::S 

Spoi«iiborbOGon«t»nM»trl' jSL 

Bploei,Obi.on,«9 *'V"'^m 

Soup  bob  and  ■avourr  nywder,  *"  ^ 

StocMM,  noieto  10 !S 

^^->  Kcood^  Bolte  to  IflS. *'  S 

!?«%»n-iji :::::« 

<p  —  ror  nare.3iy. .» •••     ^ 

— —  for  gooBO, 378 •••"  JJ 

■  ■   for  tarttqr,  377 jL 

-— for?uol,374 S 

Suetp«ddlna,SU fS 

Syrvp,  dariflHl,  <7S zL 

>-^->oflBnaonpoel,S9S ^ 

of  orange,  39S •r;'" 

flioinaeb,  an  Eniiltahmaii'a  eoom 
kettle,  Dr.  Hoifier*!  Obe.  on ;  ^*'  ,r 

tetbooae'a  ditto,  note S 

••*  the  macfalnefy  of  lift."  v;;;   ** 

—  Dr.  CbeyncTfl  Oba.  on ;  AbW-  ^ 
nethy'adltto JL 

Stomacbie  tfaieture,589 ^ 

gpeeiaclea  for  Gourmands,  note.  •*  •  ^ 
Ipiloirftolt,  various  waya  of dicainS  ^ 
flints,  to  broil,  ITO* S 

—  topkkle,171 y 

ID  atew,  170** '  ,S 

—'—•to  fVy,  173 :  **'' 

dervaif»,Rev.  Wm.  Watklns'excd- 


•    J 


tu 


ftgt 

VBDK  IflMniliBflD  iBb  vDD  WOUh^BB^ 

inait  of. •.•;•.......••  85 

fttadhradviMto « 

utaM&r 40 

» 

Skate,  148..*.V.*III!i.'.'.'!!*.ir.'/.r.!  118 
9oupi^  uMter  llw  niflwof  ti»  aitlete 
they  era  womte  of. 

Soup,  Ota.  on. •* tt 

91 

mod  6oaiili,SSB « 9iS 

8S,M ;....14B.  151 

Stewpea .V.    80 

Suet,toelnttyftirftyiiig,4fcc.84...  147 

^ IMMidiiA 893 

BaoMces,  to  in',  87 148 

8«reolireadtlo(lry«8B 149 

—  do-aiataHt-W ih. 

CNreet,  or  sliort  aad  crtop  lart  pafie 

(Ap.  4.) m 

SBakakslM «. KB 

Soles,  ID  boU,  144 169 

^       ■♦ofty>145 Hk, 

to    ateviy    148,     158,     164 

17L  17T.  Ml 

fiUeted,  147 171 

Skate,  fried,  154 175 

Stnifeon,  158 174 

Tartpute(Ap  3.) 360 

TanletB(Ap  34.)..^ 370 

Tttte,theComailttMOf,Prefaee...   xi. 

—  the  Magastoe  of,  403. ..  .63.  S93 

—  varletiea  of 51 

Tutea,atx  simple,  note 53 

Ttuiils,ooteto,ie9 195 

Tankard,  cool,  4M S94 

Tarragon  sauce,  964 333 

vinegar, 306 '.....  908 

Tea,  to  make.  550 339 

Tender,  to  make  meat 58 

T^wahdiddle,  467 904 

Thickeaing,  or  r«»x,  9S7 339 

ditto. 98 

Toast  and  water,  463. 303 

—and  cheese,  530. -380 

Toasted  cbeeae,  549 •• •  331 

Tomato  sauce,  399 339 

mock  ditto,  393. ib. 

Tongue  to  boU,  15 UO 

-^— what  the  roots  aie  good  fbr, 

Obs.tol5 Ib. 

Toothache,  core  for,  567 351 

Tripe,18 191 

'Mlle(Ap.40.) 374 

Truffles,  Obs.  on 05 

Ttubot,  to  boil,  140 107 

T«iftef,toboil,16 110 

—  to  fbtten  aad  whiten,  16u....   Uk 

<— — raast,57 tSk 

—— hash,  Ibe.  533 388 

pulied,5U ib. 

Yuniips,130 163 

. tomMh,l31 164 


Tntiip-topii  laft 


Turtle,  to  #eBB,9S0*  •••••«««• 

moak  ditto,  9iT»8Bfe>»..oi.. 

— — —  BIrcn  sdttto,  eneHsntaoiato 
947 « 

niook  modt.  ditlA,1M5. 

Rffglirhi  94B.*»* •••••»••••« 
aauce,  sts.  ••••■••••■%•  «»••• 

HBsenrOi  343*. ..» 

Iilatato  tiirtlu  eawtt,  Obs.  to 


1 

,  909 


98) 

919 

lb. 
918 


Ik, 


9500  pounds  oi; 
dhiner,noteto9f0... 
Twelflh  cake  (Ap.  5ft.) 


at  one 


S7V 


••• 


« » 


Taozhan  nectar,  to  taailtia,  480. 

Veal,toboU,4 

toroaM,33 

fiUet,JI. 

k>in,35 i 

*— staooider,80 

—— neck,  best  end, 37. ...••••••«•  • 

sweetbread,  30...'. 

cutlet,  90..... 

— —  ditto,  sauce  for,  90 » . 

ditto,  All]  dressed,  581 

broth,  191 

gravy,  193. 

— — knucMe  soup,  193 

stuffing,  Horn  Fowlw's,  374. . 

— —  forcemeat,  379.**. 

——  breast,  stewedfcSfS. 

minced,  511* 

hashed,  5U..... 

--^  sauce  for,  361 

excellent  hot  ragoOt  of  eoU 

veal,  519. •» 

potted,  503 

lM«ast  rafoOt,  517 

—  ditto,  with  pcAse,  note  to  9!17. . 

olives,  518. * ». 

jNitlets,  broiled,  5B1 

knuckle,  to  ragmkt,  533 

Witlftice,SB3. *. 

Gay's  receipt,  ditto,  884 

and  ham  patdes  (Ap.9B.) 

liie(Ap9l) 

VMetaMea,  Obs.  on.    Bee  the  5lk 

chapter  of  the  Hndimenta  of 


loi 

197 
A. 


Ikk 
ib. 

Ibi 

r49 

lb. 


195 

ib. 

106 

364 

ib. 

310 

318 

lb. 

9S7 

310 

314 
310 


SI 


lb. 
lb. 


10  extract,  417.*  977 
848 


Oookeiy. 

Vegetable 

marrow 

maiketing  tables  ftr 

Yenisaa,io  rooat  a  kaincb,  8I... . 
'      neck  or  shodder,  M... . . 

tobaftt58B 

'  to  vensonUk  mattoo,  39. 

tboDevtt^. 

— — wine  sauce  for,  344 

sharp  ditto  for.  345 

»■   '  ■    sweet  ditto,  346 

intUton  gravy,  347 


130 
140 


mm  mm-^  ^<*M< 


953 
ib. 
lb. 
lb. 


43t 


VI 


345. 


•  ••••  •«    • 


jOMpV****  ••••  •    it*. 

4wl*<  •••••••  s  ■••  wn 


e 


4SS.. 


....  »8 
....    ib. 


OiLtoSQS. 


•.••••.«•• 


Val«lv«M(A^9S.) 


WalattMM£M38.:. M 

WflKrgnwl»feMMdtMily,578 an 

i«ltateiror,578.....   tb. 
, 175 


WaiUH;  tte  Sev.  O^  kte  liialB  m 
Utm.^ I 

ai-.« JB 

81 - U 

364,3^*....  ........  S$ 

WhWiWI,  Med,  iSL nj 

Wtato  lyialmb  (An.  90.) a 

WUftBOMaiidteiarTS. M 

WlUdiKkB,74. A 

sn 

M 

paid  to  tt  M  die  araai  I^mi^ 

■oietoTI..'. ft 

Wow  wow  naee  in  bailed  be^ 

3» .v!!7» 

Waigliii  and  BieMiiveA  Jk«  eoolceiy, 

ttbteoC :*  M 

WUgbt,  tiM  dlBlnntloa  that  taks 

plaeelBcooklot... n 

TMEriilreiNiddlBgjSS 311 


THS  K8P 


«h     « 


»     •• 


PAMTBTT,  SlC,  377 

0&5.— If  made  in  cold  weaiber,  the  egfB  should  be  broken 
into  a  pah,  and  set  into  another  filled  with  hot  water;  like- 
wise the  Iruit,  sweetmeats,  and  almonds,  laid  in  a  warm  place^ 
otherwise  it  may  chill  the  butter,  and  cause  the  cake  to  be 
heavy. 

Bride,  or  Wedding  Cake.^^o.  56.) 

The  onlv  difference  usually  made  in  these  cakes  is,  the 
addition  of  one  pound  of  raisins,  stoned  and  mixed  with  the 
other  fruit. 

Plain  Pound  CWbc.— (No.  67.) 

Cream,  as  in  No.  55,  one  pound  of  butter,  and  work  it  well 
together  with  one  pound  of  sifted  sugar  till  quite  smooth; 
b^t  up  nine  eggs,  and  put  them  by  degrees  to  the  butteT,  and 
beat  them  for  twenty  minutes ;  mix  in  lightly  one  pound  of 
flour ;  put  the  whole  mto  a  hoop,  cased  with  paper,  on  a  baking- 
plate,  and  bake  it  about  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

An  ounce  of  caraway-seeds  added  to  the  above,  will  make 
what  is  termed  a  rich  seed  cake. 

Pltm  Pound  Goft^.— (No.  58.) 

Make  a  cake  as  No.  57,  and  when  you  have  beaten  it,  mix  in 
lightly  half  a  pound  of  currants,  two  ounces  of  oraiu^,  and 
two  ounces  of  candied  lemon-peel  cut  small,  and  half  a  nut- 
meg grated. 

Common  Seed  Qsifce.— ^(No.  59.) 

Sift  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  with  half  a  pound  of 
good  Lisbon  or  loaf  sugar,  pounded  into  a  pan  or  bowl ;  make 
a  cavity  in  the  centre,  and  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  lukewarm 
milk,  and  a  table-spoonfid  of  thick  yest ;  mix  the  milk  and 
yest  with  enough  flour  to  make  it  as  thick  as  cream  (this  is 
caUed  setting  a  sponge) ;  set  it  by  in  a  warm  place  tor  one 
hour;  in  the  meantime,  melt  to  an  oil  half  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter,  and  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients,  with  one  ounce 
of  caraway-seeds,  and  enough  of  milk  to  make  it  of  a  mid- 
dling stifBiess ;  line  a  hoop  with  paper,  well  ndibed  over  with 
butter;  put  in  the  mixture;  set  it  some  time  to  prove  in  a 
stove,  or  before  the  fire,  and  bake  it  on  a  plate  about  an  hour, 
in  rather  a  hot  oven ;  when  done,  rub  the  top  over  with  a 
paste-brush  dipped  in  milk. 

list 


.    1  ♦ 


tm 


-1^ 


PASTBTy  &C«  381 

but  the  best  criterion  to  go  by  in  trying  their  lightness  is  to 
hike  one  or  two,  and  if  you  find  them  heavy,  put  one  or  two 
more  whites;  put  the  mixture  into  a  biscuit-funnel,  and  lav 
them  out  on  wafer-paper,  in  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  small 
walnut,  having  reaay  about  two  ounces  of  blanched  and  dry 
almonds  cut  into  slips,  put  three  or  four  pieces  on  each,  and 
bake  them  on  wires,  or  a  baking-plate,  in  a  slow  oven. 

0&5.— Almonds  should  be  blanched  and  dried  gradually  two 
or  three  days  before  they  are  used,  by  which  means  they  will 
work  much,  better,  and  where  large  quantities  are  used,  it  is 
advised  to  grind  them  in  a  mill  provided  for  that  purpose. 

flotfl^  CWk«5.— (Na  71.) 

To  half  a  pound  of  blanched  bitter,  and  half  a  pound  of 
sweet,  almonds,  put  the  whites  of  four  eggs ;  beat  them  quite 
fine  in  a  mortar,  and  stir  in  two  pounds  and  a  quarter  of  loaf 
su^,  pounded  and  sifted ;  rub  them  well  toffether  with  the 
wmtes  (by  degrees)  of  nine  eggs  (try  their  lightness  as  in 
the  last  receipt);  lay  them  out  from  the  biscuit-funnel  on 
cartridge-paper,  in  curops  about  the  size  of  a  shilling,  and 
bake  them  m  a  middlmg-heated  oven,  of  a  light  brown 
-colour,  and  take  them  from  the  papers  as  soon  as  cold. 

N.B.  A  smaller  pipe  must  be  used  in  the  funnel  than  for 
other  articles. 

Almond  Sponge  Cake. — (No.  73.) 

Pound  in  a  mortar  one  pound  of  blanched  almonds  quite 
fine,  with  the  whites  of  three  eggs ;  then  put  in  one  pound  of 
sifted  loaf  sugar,  some  grated  lemon-peel,  and  the  yelks  of 
fifteen  eggs — ^work  them  well  together:  beat  up  to  a  solid 
froth  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  and  stir  them  into  the  other 
ingredients  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  dry  flour : 
prepare  a  mould  as  at  No.  67;  put  in  the  mixture,  and  bake 
it  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven :  take  it  carefully  from  tiie  mould, 
and  set  it  on  a  sieve. 

Ratqfla  GciA».--(No.  73.) 

To  be  made  as  above,  omitting  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sweet,  and  substituting  a  quarter  ^  a  pound  of  bitter  almonds* 

Did  Bread  Gs(ibe.-KNo^  74.) 

Boil,  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  lump 
sugar;  have  reaq^  one  pint  of  eggs,  ^ee  parts  yelks,  in  a 


882  PAflTRY,   &C. 

pan;  pour  in  the  sug^r,  and  whisk  it  quick  till  cold,  or  about 
a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  stir  in  two  pounds  of  sifted  Hota ; 
(^ase  the  inside  of  square  tins  with  white  paper;  fill  them 
three  parts  full ;  sift  a  little  sug^ar  over,  and  bake  it  in  a  warm 
oven,  and  while  hot  remove  them  from  the  moulds. 

Orange  Gingerbread. — (No.  76.) 

Sift  two  pounds  and  a  quarter  of  fine  flour,  and  add  to  it  a 
{)0und  and  three  quarters  of  treacle,  six  ounces  of  candied 
orange-peel  cut  small,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  moist 
sugar,  one  ounce  of  ground  ginger,  and  one  ounce  of  allspice : 
melt  to  an  oil  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter ;  mix  the 
whole  well  together,  and  lay  it  by  for  twelve  hours ;  roll  it 
out  with  as  little  flour  as  possible,  about  half  an  inch  thick ; 
cmt  it  into  pieces  three  inches  long  and  two  wide ;  mark  them 
in  the  form  of  checkers  with  the  back  of  a  knife ;  put  them 
on  a  baking-plate  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart ;  rub  them 
over  with  a  brush  dipped  into  the  yelk  of  an  egg  beat  up 
with  a  tea-cupful  of  milk;  bake  it  in  a  cool  oven  about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour :  when  done,  wash  them  slightly  over 
again,  divide  the  pieces  with  a  knife  (as  in  baking  they  will 
run  together). 

Gingerbread  JVW«.— vNo.  76.) 

• 

To  two  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  put  two  pounds  of  treacle, 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  moist  sugar,  half  a  pound  of 
candied  orange-peel  cut  small,  one  ounce  and  a  half  of 
ground  ginger,  one  ounce  of  ground  caraways,  and  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  oiled :  mix  all  well  together, 
and  set  it  by  some  time ;  then  roll  it  out  in  pieces  about  the 
size  of  a  small  walnut ;  lay  them  in  rows  on  a  baking-plate ; 
dress  them  flat  with  the  hand,  and  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven 
about  ten  minutes. 

Plain  Bim».— (No.  77.) 

To  four  pounds  of  sifted  flour  put  one  pound  of  ^od  moist 
sugar;  make  a  cavity  in  the  centre,  and  stir  in  a  ffill  of  good 
yest,  a  pint  of  lukewarm  milk,  with  enough  of  me  flour  to 
make  it  the  thickness  of  cream ;  cover  it  over,  and  let  it  lie 
two  hours ;  then  melt  to  an  oil  (but  not  hot)  one  pound  of 
butter,  stir  it  into  the  other  ingredients,  with  enough  warm 
milk  to  make  it  a  soft  paste ;  throw  a  little  flour  over,  and  let 
them  lie  an  hour ;  have  ready  a  baking-platter  rubbed  over 
with  butter;  mould  with  the  hand  the  dough  into  buns,  about 


pasiHy,  &c.  38^ 

the  size  of  a  larg^e  egg ;  lay  them  in  rows  full  three  inches 
-apart ;  set  them  in  a  warm  place  for  half  an  hour,  or  till  they 
have  risen  to  double  their  size ;  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven  of  a 
good  colour,  and  wash  them  over  with  a  brush  dipped  into 
milk  when  drawn  from  the  oven. 

Crosa  Buns, — (No.  78.) 

To  the  above  mixture  put  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  ground 
allspice,  cinnamon,  and  mace,  mixed ;  and  when  half  proved, 
press  the  form  of  a  cross  with  a  tin  mould  (made  for  tne  pur- 
pose) in  the  centre,  and  proceed  as  above. 

:^ed  Bttrw.— (No.  79.) 

Take  two  pounds  of  plain  bun  dough  (No.  77),  and  mix  in 
one  ounce  of  caraway  seeds;. butter  the  insides  of  small 
tart-pans ;  mould  the  dough  into  buns,  and  put  one  in  each 
pan;  set  them  to  rise  in  a  warm  place ;  and  when  sufficiently 
proved,  ice  them  with  the  white  of  an  egg  beat  to  a  froth, ^nd 
laid  on  with  a  paste-brush ;  some  pdunded  sugar  upon  that, 
and  dissolve  it  with  water  splashed"  from  the  brush:  bake 
them  in  a  warm  oven  about  ten  minutes. 

Plum  Buns.— {So.  80.) 

To  two  pounds  of  No.  77  mixture,  put  hatf  a  pound  of  cur- 
rants, a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  candied  orange-peel  cut  into 
small  pieces,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  half  an  ounce  of  mixed 
spii;e,  such  as  allspice,  cmnamon,  &c. :  mould  them  into 
buns ;  jag  them  round  the  edge  with  a  knife,  and  proceed  as 
with  plain  buns,  No.  77. 

Or^-ccrf.— (No.  81.) 

Pound  very  fine  one  pound  of  Jordan,  and  one  ounce  of 
bitter,  almonds,  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  half  a  gill  of  orange- 
flower  water  to  keep  them  from  oiling ;  then  mix  with  them 
one  pint  of  rose  and  one  pint  of  spring- water ;  rub  it  through 
a  tamis  cloth  or  lawn  sieve,  till  the  almonds  are  quite  dry, 
which  will  reduce  the  quantity  to  about  a  quart :  have  ready 
three  pints  of  claniied  sugar  or  water,  and  boil  it  to  a  crack 
(which  may  be  known  hy  dipping  your  fingers  into  the  sugar, 
and  then  into  cold  water;  and  if  you  find  the  sugar  to  crack 
in  moving  your  finger,  it  has  boiled  enough);  put  in  the 
almonds ;  boil  it  one  minute,  and  when  cold  put  it  into  small 
bottles  close  corked;  a  table-spoonful  of  which  will  be  suffi- 
cient for  a  tumbler  of  water:  shake  the  bottle  before  using. 


384  PAffsmv,  &.c; 

0&«.^lf  thetngeot  is  for  present  use^  the  almonds  may  be 
pounded  as  aboye,  and  mixed  widi  one  quart  of  urater » one 
quart  of  milk,  a  pint  of  capiflaire  or  clarified  sugar^  n^bed. 
tniougli  a  tamis  or  fine  Bieye^  and  put  into  decanters  for  use. 

Baktd  Pears.<-(No.  82.) 

Take  twelve  large  baking  pears ;  pare  and  cut  them  into 
halves,  leaving  the  stem  about  half  an  inch  long;  take  out 
the  core  with  the  point  of  a  knife,  and  place  them  close  toge« 
ther  in  a  block-tin  saucepan,  the  inside  of  which  is  quite 
bright,  with  the  cover  to  fit  quite  close;  put  to  them  the  rind 
of  a  lemon  cut  thin,  with  hadf  its  juice,  ft  small  stick  of  cin- 
namon, and  twenty  grains  of  allspice;  cover  them  with 
spring*water,  and  aulow  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar  to  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  water:  cover  them  up  close,  and  bake  them  for 
six  hours  in  a  very  slow  oven :  they  will  be  quite  tender,  and 
of  a  bright  colour. 

Ob$. — Prepared  cochineal  is  generally  used  for  coloimng 
the  pears ;  but  if  the  above  is  strictly  attended  tOf  it  wiU  be 
found  to  answer  best. 

To  dry  .%>««.— (No.  83.) 

Take  biffins,  or  orange  or  lemon-pippins;  the  former 
are  the  best;  choose  the  clearest  rinds,  and  without  any 
blemishes ;  lay  them  on  clean  straw  on  a  baking-wire ;  cover 
them  well  witn  more  straw;  set  them  into  a  slow  oven;  let 
them  remain  for  four  or  five  hours ;  draw  them  out  and  rub 
them  in  your  hands,  and  press  them  veiy  gently,  otherwise 
you  will  burst  the  skins ;  return  them  into  the  oven  for  about 
an  hour;  press  them  again ;  when  cold,  if  they  look  dry,  rub 
them  over  with  a  little  clarified  sugar. 

0&s.^6y  being  put  into  the  oven  four  or  ^ye  times,  press- 
ing them  between  each  time,  they  may  be  brought  as  flat, 
and  eat  as  well,  as  the  dried  biflhis  from  Norfolk. 

Icing,  fir  'nodfth  or  Bride  QiJb«.-<No.  84.) 

Take  one  pound  of  douMe-refined  sugar,  pounded  and 
sifted  through  a  lawn  sieve;  put^^into  a  pan  quite  firee  from 
grease ;  break  in  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  and  as  mudi  powder 
Une  as  wiU  lie  on  a  sixp^ice;  beat  it  weU  vrtth  aspicttle  for 
ten  minntes ;  then  squeexe  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  beat 
it  tiD  it  becomes  thick  and  transpairent*  Bet  the  cake  yon 
intend  to  ice  in  an  oven  or  wwm  fliace  finre  minutes;  then 
spread  over  the  top  and  sides  with  me  mixture  as  smooth  as 


possible*  If  for  a  wed^mg  cake  only,  plain  ice  it ;  if  for  a 
twelfth  cake,  on^ament  it  with  gum  paste,  or  fancy  articles 
of  any  description. 

Ob$. — ^A  good  twelfth  cake,  not  baked  too  much,  and  kept 
in  a  cool  di^  place,  wiH  retain  its  moisture  and  eat  well,  if 
twelve  months  old. 

Break  mto  a  small  copper  or  brass  pan  one  pound  of  refined 
au^ ;  put  in  a  gOl  of  spring-water ;  set  it  on  a  fire ;  when  it 
boils  skmi  it  quite  clean,  and  let  it  boil  quick,  till  it  comes  to  the 
degree  called  crack ;  -which  may  be  known  by  dipping  a  tea- 
spoon or  skewer  into  the  sugar,  and  letting  it  drop  to  the  bottom 
of  a  pan  of  pold  water ;  and  if  it  remains  hard,  it  has  attained 
that  degree :  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  let  it 
remain  one  minute  longer  on  the  fire ;  then  set  the  pan  into 
another  of  cold  water :  have  ready  nioulds  of  any  slope ;  rub 
them  over  with  sweet  oil ;  dip  a  spoon  or  fork  into  the  sugar, 
and,<throw  it  over  the  mould  in  fine  threads,  till  it  is  quite 
covered :  make  a  small  handle  of  caramel,  or  stick  on  two  or 
three  small  ran  paste  rings,  by  wa^r  of  ornament,  and  place 
it  over  small  pastry  of  any  description. 

A  Croqudnte  of  Paste. — (No.  86.) 

Roll  out  paste,  as  No.  8,  about  the  eighth  of  an  inch  thick ; 
rub  over  a  plain  mould  with  a  little  fresh  butter ;  lay  on  the 
pastcTcry  even,  and  equaUv  thin  on  both  sides ;  pare  it  round 
the  rim ;  then  with  a  small  penknife  cut  out  smul  pieces,  as 
fancy  may  direct,  such  as  diamonds,  stars,  cireles,  sprigs, 
&c. ;  or  use  a  small  tin  cutter  of  any  shape :  let  it  lie  to  &y 
some  time,  and  bake  it  a  few  minutes  in  a  slack  oven,  of  a 
light  colour :  remove  it  from  the  mould,  and  place  it  over  a 
tart,  or  any  other  dish  of  small  pasihry. 

Derby  or  Short  Giiket.-*(No.  87.) 

Rub  in  with  the  hand  one^wund  of  butter  into  two  pounds 
of  sifted  flour ;  put  one  pound  of  currants,  one  pound  of  good 
moist  sugar,  and  one  egg;  mix  all  together  with  half  a  pint 
of  milk :  roll  it  out  thin,  and  cut  them  into  round  cakes  with 
a  cutter ;  lay  them  on  a  clean  bakii^-plate,  and  put  them  into 
a  middling*heated  oven  for  about  five  minutes. 

Kk 


386  PA8TBT,  SlC, 

Egg  and  Ham  Potties.— (No.  88.) 

Cut  a  slice  of  brpad  two  inches  thick,  from  the  most  solicf 
part  of  a  stale  quartern  loaf:  have  ready  a  tin  round  cotter, 
two  inches  diameter;  cut  out  four  or  five  pieces,  then  take  a 
cutter  two  sizes  smaller,  press  it  nearly  through  the  larger 
pieces,  then  remove  with  a  smaU  knife  the  bread  from  the 
mner  circle :  have  ready  a  large  stew-pan  fun  of  boiling  laid  ; 
fiy  them  of  a  light-brown  colour,  drain  them  dry  with  a  clean 
doth,  and  set  them  by  till  wanted;  then  take  half  a  poun4 
of  lean  ham,  mince  it  smaU ;  add  to  it  a  gill  of  good  brown 
sauce ;  stir  it  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes,  and  put  a  small 
quantity  of  Cayenne  pepper  and  lemon-jmce :  fill  the  shapes 
with  tiie  mixture,  and  lay  a  poached  egg  (No.  546)  upon  each. 

Dofiuon,  or  olher  Plum  Cheese. — (No.  89.) 

Take  damsons  that  have  been  preserved  without  sugar; 
pass  them  through  a  sieve,  to  take  put  the  skins  and  stones. 
To  every  pound  of  pulp  of  fruit  put  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar, 
broke  small ;  boil  them  together  till  it  becomes  quite  stiff; 
powr  it  into  four  common-sized  dinner  plates,  rubbed  with  a 
little  sweet  oil;  put  it  into  a  warm  place  to  dry,  and  when 
quite  firm,  take  it  from  the  plate,  and  cut  it  into  any  shape 
you  choose. 

N.B.  Damson  cheese  is  generally  used  in  desserts. 

Barley  5^grar.— (No.  90.)^ 

Clarify,  as  No.  475,  three  pounds  of  refined  sugar;  boil  it 
to  the  degree  of  cracked  (which  may  be  ascertained  by  dip- 
ping a  spoon  into  the  sugar,  and  then  instantly  into  cold 
water,  and  if  it  ai^ars  brittle,  it  is  boiled  enough) ;  squeeze 
in  a  smaU  teapspoonful  of  the  juice,  and  four  drops  of  essence 
of  lemon,  and  let  it  boil  up  once  or  twice,  and  set  it  by  a  few 
minutes :  have  ready  a  marble  slab,  or  smooth  stone,  rubbed 
over  with  sweet  oil ;  pour  over  the  sugar ;  cut  it  into  long 
stripes  with  a  large  pair  of  scissors ;  twist  it  a  little,  and 
when  cold,  keep  it  from  the  air  in  tin  boxes  or  canisters. 

N.B.  A  few  drops  of  essence  of  ginger,  instead  of  lemon, 
will  make  what  is  called  ginger  barley  sugar. 

Barley  Sugar  Drops* — (No.  91.) 

To  be  made  as  the  last  receipt.  Have  ready,  by  the  time 
the  sugar  is  boiled  sufiiciently,  a  large  sheet  of  paper,  with  a 
smooth  layer  of  sifted  loaf  sugar  on  it ;  put  the  boiled  sugar 


into  a  ladle  that  lias  a  fine  lip;  pour  it  out,  in  drops  not  larger 
than  a  shilling,  oh  to- the  sifted  sugar ;  when  cold,  fold  them 
up  separately,  in  white  paper. 

N.B»  Some  use  an  oiled  marble  slab  instead  of  the  sifted 
sugar. 

Raspberry  /aOT.-^(No.  92.) 

Rub  fresh-gathered  raspberries,  taken  on  a  dry  day,  through 
a  wicker  sieve;  to  one  pint  of  the  pul^  put  one  pound  of 
loaf  spgar,  broke  small ;  put  it  into  a  preserving-pan  over  a 
brisk  fire ;  when  it  begins  to  boil,  skim  it  well,  and  stir  It 
twenty  minutes ;  put  into  small  pots ;  cut  white  paper  to  the 
si^e  of  the  top  of  the  pot ;  dip  them  in  brandy,  and  put  them 
over  the  jam  when  cold,  with  a  double  paper  tied  over  the  pot. 

Strawberry  jam  is  made  the  same  way,  and  the  scarlets 
are  mQst  propei:  for  that  purpose. 

Apricotf  or  any  Plum  Jam. — (No.  93.) 

After  taking  away  the  stones  from  the  apricots,  and  cut- 
ting out  any  blemishes  they  may  have ;  put  mem  over  a  tAovr 
fire,  in  a  clean  stew-pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  water;  when 
scalded,  rub  them  through  a  hair-sieve :  to  every  poulid  of 
pulp  put  one  pound  of  sifted  loaf-sugar ;  put  it  into  a  pre- 
serving-pan over  a  brisk  fire,  and  when  it  boils  skim  it  well, 
and  throw  in  the  kernels  of  the  apricots,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  bitter  almonds,  blanched;  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  fasf, 
and  stirring  it  all  the  time ;  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  fill 
it  into  pots,  and  cover  them  as  at  No.  92. 

N.B.  Green  gages  or  plums  may  be.done  in  the  same  way, 
omitting  the  kernels  or  almonds. 

Lemon  Qiips. — (No.  94.) 

Take  larse  smooth-rinded  Malaga  lemons ;  race  or  cut  off 
their  peel  mto  chips  with  a  smaU  knife  (this  will  require 
some  practice  to  do  it  properly) ;  throw  them  into  salt  and 
water  till  next  day ;  have  ready  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  throw 
them  in  and  boil  them  tender.  Drain  them  well :  after  having 
lain  some  time  in  water  to  cool,  put  them  in  an  earthen  pan, 
pour  over  enough  boiling  clarified  sugar  to  cover  them,  and 
then  let  them  lie  two  days ;  then  strain  the  syrup,  put  more 
sugar,  and  reduce  it  by  boiling  till  the  S3nrup  is  quite  thick ; 
put  in  the  chips,  and  simmer  them  a  few  minutes,  imd  set 
them  by  for  two  days :  repeat  it  once  more ;  let  them  be  two 
days  longer,  and  they  will  be  fit  to  candy,  which  nmst  be 


388  PASTBTy  &C. 

done  as  follows :  take  four  pints  of  clarified  sugar,  which  will 
be  sufficient  for  six  pounds  of  chips,  boil  itto  the  degree  of 
blown  (which  may  be  known  by  dippmg  the  skimmer  into  the 
sugar,  and  blowing  stroiigljr  thitrngh  the  holes  of,  it ;  if  little 
blsulders  appear,  it  has  attained  tlmt  degree) ;  and  when  tiiie 
chips  are  thoroughly  drained  and  wiped  on  a  clean  cloth,  put 
them  into  the  syrup,  stirring  them  about  with  tiie  skimmer 
till  you  see  the  stigar  become  whiteV  then  take  them  out  with, 
two  forks ;  shake  them  lightly  into  a  wiie  sieve,  and  set  them 
into  a  stove,  or  in  a  warm  place  to  dry. 
N.B*  Orange  chips  are  done  in  the  same  way. 

Dried  Cherries, — (No.  95.) 

Take  large  Kentish  cherries,  not  too  ripe ;  pick  off  the 
stalks,  and  take  out  the  stones  with  a  quill,  cut  nearly  as  fen* 
a  pen :  to  three  poimds  of  which  take  three  pounds  or  pintft 
of  clarified  sugar — (see  No.  475,)  boil  it  to  the  degree  of 
blown  (for  which  see  last  receipt);  put  in  the  cherries,  give 
them  a  boil,  and  set  them  by  in  an  earthen  pan  till  the  next 
day ;  then  strain  the  syrup,  add  more  sugar,  and  boil  it  of  a 
good  consistence;  put  the  cherries  m,  and  boil  them  five 
minutes,  and  set  them  by  another  day :  repeat  the  boiling' 
two  more  days,  and  when  wanted,  drain  them  some  time» 
and  lay  them  on  wire  sieves  to  dry  in  a  stove,  or  nearly  cdid 
oven. 

Green  Gages  preserved  in  Syrup* — (No.  96.) 

Take  the  gages  when  nearly  ripe ;  cut  the  stalks  about 
half  an  inch  from  the  fruit ;  put  them  into  cold  wat^,  iRdth  a 
lumpof  alum  about  the  size  of  a  walnut;  and  set  them  on  a  slow 
fire  till  they  come  to  a  simmer :  take  them  from  the  fire»  and 
put  them  into  cold  water;  drain,  and  pack  them  close  into  a 
preserving-pan ;  pour  over  them  enough  clarified  sugar  to 
cover  them ;  simmer  them  two  or  three  minutes ;  set  them 
by  in  an  earthen  pan  till  next  day,  when  drain  the  gages,  and 
boil  the  syrup  with  more  sugar,  tiU  quite  thick ;  put  in  the 
gages,  and  simmer  them  th^e  minutes  more,  and  repeat  it 
Tar  two  days ;  then  boil  clarified  sugar  to  a  blow,  as  at  No. 
94,  place  the  gagies  into  glasses,  and  pour  the  syrup  over, 
and,  when  cold,  tie  over  a  bladder,  and  upon  that  a  leather; 
and  should  you  want  any  for  diy  ing,  drain  and  dry  them  on  a 
wire  sieve  in  a  stove  or  slow  oven. 

Apricbts  or  egg  plum^  may  be  done  in  the  same  way. 


FASTB7,  &.C.  389 

2b  prwcroe  Gfingw.— (No.  97.) 

Take  ^een  gingerj  pare  it  neatly  with  a  sharp  knife; 
throw  it  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  as  it  is  pared,  to  keep  it 
white ;  when  you  have  sufficient,  boil  it  till  tender,  changing 
the  water  three  times;  each  time  put  it  into  cold  water  to 
,take  out  the  heat  of  spirit  of  the  ginger ;  when  tender,  throw 
it  into  cold  water :  for  seven  pounds  of  ginger,  clarify  eight 
pounds  of  refined  sugar,  see  No.  475 ;  ^iWien  cold,  drain  the 
ginger,  and  put  it  in  an  earthen  pan,  with,  enough  of  the 
sugar,  cold,  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  stand  two  days ;  then  pour 
the  sjnrup  from  the  ginger  tor  thfe  remainder  of  the  sugar ; 
boil  it  some  time,  and  when  cold,  pour  it  on  the  ginger  a^ain, 
and  set  it  by  three  diays  at  least.  Then  take  the  syrup  from 
the  ginger ;  boil  it,  and  put  it  hot  over  the  gitiger ;  proceed  in 
this  way  till  you  find  the  sugar  has  entered  the  ginger,  boiling 
the  S3nrup,  and  skimming  off  the  scum  that  rises  each  time, 
until  the  sytup  becomes  rich  as  well  as  the  ginger. 

06».— If  you  put  the  syrup  on  hot  at  first,  or  if  too  rich,  the 
ginger  will  shrink,  and  npt  take  the  sugar. 

N.B.  When  green  ginger  is  not  to  be  procured,  take  lar^e 
races  of  Jamaica  ginger  boiled  several  times  in  water  till 
tender,  pare  neatly,  and  proceed  as  above. 

To  preserve  CWcMinfc«r».^No.  98.) 

Take  large  and  fresh-gathered  cucumbers;  split  them  down 
aind  take  out  aU  the  seeds ;  lay  them  in  salt  and  water  that 
will  bear  an  egg^  three  days ;  set  them  on  a  fire  with  cold 
water,  and  a  small  lump  of  alum,  and  boil  them  a  few 
minutes,  or  till  tender;  drain  them,  and  pour  on  them  a  thin 
syrup;  let  them  lie  two  days;  boil  the  syrup  again,  and  put 
it  over  the  cucumbers ;  repeat  it  twice  more ;  then  have  ready 
some  fresh  clarified  sugar,  boiled  to  a  blow  (see  No.  94); 
put  in  the  cucumbers,  and  simmer  it  five  minutes ;  set  it  by 
tillnext  dity;  boil  the  S3mip  and  cucumbers  again,  and  set 
them  in  glasses  for  use. 

Preserved  FruU,  'soUhout  Sugar.'-^Qfo,  99.) 

Take  damsons  when  not  too  ripe ;  pick  off  the  stalks,  and 
put  them  into  wide-mouthed  glass  bottles,  taking  care  not  to 
put  in  any  but  what  are  whole,  and  without  blemish;  shake 
them  weu  down  (otherwise  the  bottles  wiQ  not  be  half  fvSi 
when  done) ;  stop  the  bottles  with  new  soft  corks,  not  too 
tig^t ;  set  them  mto  a  very  slow  oven  (nearljr  cold)  four  or 
five  hours;  the  slower  they  are  done  the  better;  when  they 

Kk3 


390  BKSAB. 

bedn  to  abrink  in  the  bottles,  it  is  a  sure  sign  that  thie  fruit 
is  Uioroiifiiily  warm :  take  them  out»  and  before  thev  are  cold, 
drive  in  me  corks  quite  tigfht ;  set  them  in  a  botUe-rack  or 
basket,  with  the  mouth  downwards,  and  tibey  will  keep  good 
several  years. 
Green   gooseberries,  morello  cherries,  cturraiits,  green 

»8,  or  bullace,  may  be  done  the  same  way. 

y«. — ^If  the  corks  are  good,  and  fit  well,  there  will  be  luv 
occasion  for  cementing  ttan;  but  should  bungs  be  used,  it 
will  be  necessary. 


*^: 


Brecki.— (No.  100.) 

Put  a  quartern  of  flour  into  a  large  basin,  with  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt ;  make  a  hole  in  the  mid^e ;  then  put  in  a 
basin  four  table-spoonfuls  of  good  yest ;  stir  in  a  pint  of 
milk,  lukewarm ;  put  it  in  the  nole  of  the  flour ;  stir  it  just 
to  make  it  of  a  thm  batter;  then  strew  a  little  flour  over  the 
top ;  then  set  it  on  one  side  of  the  Are,  and  cover  it  over ; 
let  it  stand  till  the  next  morning;  then  make  it  into  dough; 
add  half  a  pint  more  of  warm  milk ;  knead  it  for  ten  minutes, 
and  then  set  it  in  a  warm  place  by  the  fire  for  one  hour  aad 
a  half;  then  knead  it  again,  and  it  is  ready  either  for  loaves 
or  bricks :  bake  them  from  one  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hoin*8, 
according  to  the  size. 

Frendi  Bread  and  Rdls.-^No.  100*.) 

Take  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk ;  make  it  quite  warm ;  half 
a  pint  of  small-beer  yest ;  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  it  as 
thick  as  batter;  put  it  into  a  pan;  cover  it  over,'and  keep  it 
warm :  when  it  has  risen  as  high  as  it  will,  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  yrarm  water,  and  half  an  ounce  of  salt,— mix  them  well 
togetiier;— rub  into  a  little  flour  two  ounces  of  butter;  then 
make  your  dou^  not  quite  so  stiff  as  for  your  bread;  let  it 
stand  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  it  will  be  ready  to 
make  into  rolls,  &c. :  let  them  stand  tiU  they  have  risen,  and 
bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sallt  Luhn.— Tea  Goibes.— (No.  101.) 

.  Take  one  pint  of  milk  quite  warm,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
thick  small-beer  yest ;  put  them  into  a  pan  with  flour  anffi- 
cieat  to  make  it  as  thick  as  batter^— cover  it  over,  and  let  it 
stand  till  it  has  risen  as  high  as  it  will, ».  e.  about  two  homrs : 
add  two  ounces  of  lump  sugar,  dissolved  in  a  quarter  of  a 


BREAP.  901 

pint  of  wann  milk,*  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rubibed 
into  your  flour  veiy  fine ;  then  make  your  dough  the  same 
as  for  French  rolls,  &c. ;  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour;  then 
make  up  your  cakes,  and  put  tli^m  on  tins :  when  they  have 
stood  to  rise,  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 

Care  should  be  taken  never  to  put  your  yest  to  water  ov 
milk  too  hot,  or  too  cold,  as  either  extreme  will  destroy  the 
fermentation.  In  summer  it  should  be  lukewarm,  in  winter 
a  lit^e  warmer,  and  in  very  cold  weather,  warmer  still. 

When  it  ha3  ftrst  risen,  if  you  are  not  prepared,  it  wiH  not 
hurt  to  stand  an  hourt 

Mvffins.'^No.  102.) 

Ti^e  one  pint  of  milk  quite  warm,  smd  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  thick  small-beer  yest ;  strain  them  into  a  pan,  and  add 
sufficient  flour  to  make  it  like  a  batter;  cover  it  over,  and 
let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  it  has  risen;  then  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  warm  milk,  and  one  ounce  of  butter 
nibbed  in  some  flour  quite  fine;  mix  them  well  together: 
then  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  it  into  dough,  cover  it  over, 
and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour;  then  work  it  up  again,  and 
break  it  into  small  pieces :  roll  them  up  quite  round,  and 
cover  them  over  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  bake  them. 

Crwinpe^s.— (No.  103.) 

The  same :  instead  of  making  the  mixture  into  dough,  add 
only  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  and  when  it  has 
fltood  a  quarter  of  an  hour  it  will  be  ready  to  bake. 

Muffins  and  crumpets  bake  best  on  a  stove  with  an  iron 
plate  fixed  on  the  top;  but  they  will  also  bake  in  a  frying- 
pan*  taking  care  the  fire  is  not  too  fierce,  and  turning  than 
when  lighUy  browned. 

Yorkdiire  CUbet.— (No.  104.) 

Take  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk  quite  warm,  and  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  uiick  small-beer  yest;  mix  them  weU  together  in  a 
pan  with  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter;  let  it  stand 
m  a  warm  place  covered  over  until  it  has  risen  as  high  as  it 
will ;  rub  six  ounces  of  butter  into  some  flour  till  it  is  quite 
fine ;  then  break  three  eggs  into  your  pan  with  the  flour  and 
butter;  mix  them  well  together;  then  add  sufficient  flour  to 
make  it  into  a  dough,  and  let  it  stand  a  quarter  of  an  hour; 

*  Uyaa  do  not  mind  tiie«zpei»e,  the  cake  will  be  much  lighter  if,  initead  of  tl^e 
unit,  yoa  pot  fonri 


39f  ruDomos  akd  pubs. 

tkea  woik  it  up  8(g«iii«  and*  break  it  into  pieeek  about  the  size 
of  an  tggf  or  laiger,  as  jrou  may  fancy ;  rolk  them  round  and 
imnnth  with  your  hand*  and  pat  ihem  on  tinsy  and  let  them 
atand  covered  over  with  a  light  piece  of  ilanneL 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  PUDDINGS  AND  PIES. 

The  quality  of  the  various  articles  employed  in  the  com- 
position of  puddings  and  pies  varies  so  mucn,  that  two  pud- 
dines,  made  exactly  according  to  the  same  receipt,  will, be 
^o  different*  one  woyld  haidly  suppose  they  were  made  by 
the  same  person,  and  certainly  not  wiih  precisely  the  same 
quantities  of  the  (apparently)  same  ingredients.  Flour  freah 
ground,  pure  new  milk,  fresh  laid,  eggs,  fresh  butter,  fresh 
suet,  &c.  will  make  a  very  different  composition,  than  when 
kept  till  each  article  is  half  spoiled. 

Plum  puddings,  when  boiled,  if  hung  up  in  a  cool  place  in 
the  cloth  they  are  boiled  in,  will  keep  eood  some  months ; 
when  wanted,  take  them  ouiof  the  cloth,  and  put  them  into 
a  clean  cloth,  and  as  soon  as  warmed  through,  they  are  ready. 

Mem. — ^In  composing  these  receipts,  the  quantities  of  eg:gs, 
butter,  &c.  are  considerably  less  than  are  ordered  in  other 
cookery  books ;  but  quite  sufficient  for  the  purpose  of  making 
the  puddings  light  and  wholesome;— we  have  diminished  the 
expense,  without  impoverishing  the  preparations;  and  the 
rational  epicure  will  be  as  weU  pleased  with  them  as  the 
-rational  economist. 

Milk,  in.its  genuine  state,  varies  considerably  in  ^e  quan'* 
tity  of  cream  it  will  throw. up,  depending  on  the  material 
with  which  the  cow  is  fed.  The  cow  that  gives  the  most 
milk  does  not  always  produce  the  most  cream,  which  varies 
fifteen  or  twenty  per  cent. 

Eggs  vary  considerably  in  size ;  in  the  following  receipts 
we  mean  the  full-sized  hen*s  egg ;  if  you  have  only  pullet's 
eggs,  use  two  for  one.  Break  eggs  one  by  one  into  a  basin, 
and  not  all  into  the  bowl  together ;  because  then,  if  you  meet 
with  a  bad  one,  that  will  spoil  all  the  rest:  strain  them 
through  a  sieve  to  take  out  the  treddles. 


not,  abe  gave  k  to  ber  lapdog;**  *  bot  a*  Mon  as  tlito  resoIoUoo  was  knowBi  poor 
little  Bow-wvwaeldoinfotth^aweectrMt  after.         , 


nJ]>DING6  ASP  WB»»  993 

N.Er  To  presefve  e|^  for  tw6lye  mpnthSy  net  K3»lo 
No.  647.  Snow,  and  small  beer,  have  beeii  recommended 
by  some  eeonomists  as  admirable  substitutes  for  eg^gs ;  they 
will  no  more  answer  this  purpose  than  as  substitutes  Ibr 
si^ar  or  brandy. 

Flour,  according  to  that  champion  against  adulteration, 
Mr.  Accum,  varies  in  qualit^r  as  much  as  any  thing. 

Butter  also  varie$  much  in  quality.  Salt  butter  maybe 
washed  from  the  salt,  and  then  it  will  make  very  good  pastry. 

Lard  varies  extremely  from  the  time  it  is  kept,  &c.  When 
you  purchase  it,  have  the  bladder  cut,  and  ascertain  that  it 
be  sweet  and  sood. 

Suet.  Beef  is  the  best,  then  mutton  and  veal ;  when  this 
is  used  in  very  hot  weather,  while  you  chop  it,  dredge  it 
lightly  wiih  a  uttle  flour. 

Beef-marrow'  is  excellent  for  most  of  the  purposes  for 
which  suet  is  employed. 

Drippings,  especially  from  beef,  when  very  clean  and  nice, 
are  frequently  used  for  kitchen  crusts  and  pies,  and  for  such 
purposes  are  a  satisfactory  substitute  for  butter^  lard,  &c. 
To  clean  and  preserve  drippings,  see  No.  63. 

Currants,  previous  to  putting  them  into  the  pudding,  should 
be  plumped :  this  is  done  by  pouring  some  boiling  water  upon 
them :  wash  them  well,  and  then  lay  them  on  a  sieve  or  cloth 
before  the  fire,  pick  them  clean  from  the  stones  ;--this  not 
only  makes  them  look  better,  but  cleanses  them  from  all  dirt. 

Raisins,  figs,  dried  cherries,  candied  orange  and  lemon- 
peel,  citron,  and  preserves  of  all  kinds,  fresh  fruits,  goose- 
berries, currants,  plums,  damsons,  &c.  are  added  to  batter 
and  suet  puddings,  or  enclosed  in  the  crust  ordered  fbr  apple 
dumplings,  and  make  all  the  various  puddings  called  by  those 
names. 

Batter  puddings  must  be  quite  smooth  and  free  from  lumps ; 
to  ensure  this,  first  mix  the  flour  with  a  little  nulk,  add  the 
remainder  by  degrees,  and  then  the  other  ingredients. 

If  it  is  a  plain  pudding,  put  it  through  a  hair-sieve ;  this 
will  take  out  all  lumps  effectually. 

Batter  puddings  should  be  tied  up  tight:  if  boiled  in  a 
mould,  butter  it  first ;  if  baked,  also  butter  the  pan. 

Be  sure  the  water  boils  before  you  put  in  the  pudding;  set 
vour  stew-pan  on  a  trivet  over  tne  fire,  and  keep  it  steadily 
boiling  all  the  time ;— if  set  upon  the  fire,  the  pudding  often 
bums. 

Be  scrupulously  careful  that  your  pudding-cloth  is  perfectly 
sweet  and  clean;  wash  it  without  any  soap,  unless  very 
greasy;  then  rinse  it  thoroughly  in  clean  water  after*    Im;i 


«3f4  fVjnaaaB  ahp  nxi. 

mediaiely  before  ym  use  it,  dip  it  in  boiling  water;  8<iiMeze 
:  It  dry,  aad  diedge  it  with  flom; 

If  your  lire  is  very  fierce,  mind  and  stir  the  puddings  erery 
now  and  then  to  keep  them  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of 
the  saucepan;  if  in  a  mould,  this  care  is  not  so  much  le- 
.  quired,  but  keep  plenty  of  water  in  the  saucepan. 

When  puddings  are  boiled  in  a  cloth,  it  should  be  }nst  dip- 
ped  in  a  basin  en  cold  water,  before  you  untie  the  pvu^dmg- 
cloth,  as  that  will  prevent  it  from  stickin^f ;  but  when  bcdled 
in  a  mould,  if  it  is  well  buttered,  they  will  turn  out  wjtliout. 
Custard  or  bread  puddings  require  to  stand  five  minutes  before 
they  are  turned  out.  They  should  always  be  boiled  m  a 
mould  or  cups. 

Keep  your  paste-board,  rolling-pin,  cutters,  and  tins  very 
clean:  the  least  dust  on  the  tins  ^d  cutters,  or  the  least 
hard  paste  on  the  rolling-pin,  will  spoil  the  whole  of  your 
labour. 

Things  used  for  pastry  or  cakes  should  not  be  used  for  any 
dtber  purpose ;  be  veir  careful  that  your  flour  is  dried  at  the 
fire  before  you  use  it,  for  puff  paste  or  cakes ;  if  damp  it  'will 
make  them  heavy. 

In  using  butter  for  puflT  paste,  you  should  take  the  greatest 
care  to  previously  work  it  well  on  the  paste-board  or  slab, 
to  get  out  all  the  water  and  buttermilk,  which  very  often 
remains  in;  when  you  have  worked  it  well  wHHh  a  clean 
knife,  cbab  it  over  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  it  is  then  ready  to  lay 
on  y;our  paste ;  do  not  make  your  paste  over  stiff  before  you 
put  in  your  butter. 

For  those  who  do  not  understand  making  puff  paste,  it  is 
by  far  the  best  way  to  work  the  butter  in  at  two  separate 
times,  divide  it  in  half,  and  break  the  half  in  little  bits,  and 
cover  your  paste  all  over:  dredge  it  lightly  with  flour,  thjBn 
fold  it  over  each  side  and  ends,  roll  it  out  q^ite  tbin,  and  then 
put  in  the  rest  of  the  butter,  fold  it,  and  roll  it  again. 
Remember  always  to  roll  puff  paste  from  you.  The  best 
made  paste,  if  not  properly  baked,  will  not  do  tiie  cook  any 
credit. 

Those  who  use  iron  ovens  do  not  alwa3rs  succeed  in  baking 
puff  paste,  fruit  pies,  &;c.  Puff  paste  is  often  spoiled  by 
baking  it  after  fruit  pies,  in  an  iron  oven.  This  may  be 
easily  avoided,  by  putting  two  or  three  bricks  that  jure  quite 
even  into  the  oven  before  it  is  first  set  to  get  hot.  This  will 
not  only  prevent  the  83rrup  from  Ixnling  out  of  the  pies,  but 
also  prevent  a  very  disagreeable  smell  in  the  kitcnen  and 
house,  and  almost  answers  the  ^ame  purpose  as  a  brick 
oven. 


VUDDIHGi  AKP  PIB8.  ^89^ 

Colkge  Pudding$.-iNo.  lOB.) 

Beat  four  eggs,  yelks  and  whites  together,  in  a  quart  basin. 
With  two  ounces  of  flour,  half  a  nutmeg,  a  little  ginger,  and 
three  ounces  of  sugar;  pounded  loaf  sugar  is  l^st.  Beat 
it  into  a  smoo^  batter ;  then  add  six  ounces  of  suet,  chopped 
fine,  six  of  currants,  weU  washed  and  picked ;  mix  it  all  well 
together;  a  glass  of  brandy  or  white  wine  will  improve  it* 
These  puddings  are  generally  fried  in  butter  or  lard ;  but  they 
^re  much  nicer  baked  in  an  oven  in  patty-pans;  twen^ 
minutes  will  bake  them :  if  fried,  fry  them  till  they  are  of  a 
nice  light  brown,  and  when  fried,  roll  them  in  a  little  flour. 
You  may  add  one  ounce  of  orange  or  citrpn,  minced  very 
flne ;  when  you  bake  them,  add  one  more  egg,  or  two  spoon- 
fuls of  milk.    Serve  them  up  with  white  wine  sauce. 

Eice  Puddings  bakedf  or  hoUed.'-^No,  106.) 

Wash  in  cold  water  and  pick  very  clean  six  ounces  of  rice, 
put  it  in  a  quart  stew-pan  three  parts  filled  with  cold  water, 
set  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes ;  pour  away  the 
water,  and  put  in  one  quart  of  milk,  a  roll  of  lemon  peel,  and  a 
bit  of  cinnamon ;  let  it  boil  gently  till  the  hce  is  qmte  tender ; 
it  will  take  at  least  one  hour  and  a  quarter ;  be  careful  to  stir 
it  eveiT  five  minutes ;  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  stir  in  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  fresh  butter,  and  beat  up  three  eggs  on  a  plate, 
a  salt-spoonful  of  nutmeg,  two  ounces  of  sugar;  put  it  into 
the  pudding,  and  stir  it  tiU  it  is  quite  smooth ;  line  a  pie-dish 
big  enough  to  hold  it  with  puff  paste,  notch  it  round  the  edge, 
put  in  your  pudding,  and  bake  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour: 
this  will  be  a  nice  firm  puddinf. 

If  you  like  it  to  eat  more  like  custard,  add  one  more  eggf 
and  half  a  pint  more  milk ;  it  will  be  better  a  little  thinner 
when  boiled;  one  hour  will  boil  it.  If  you  like  it  in  little 
puddings,  butter  small  tea-cups,  and  either  bake  or  boil  them, 
half  an  hqur  will  do  either:  you  may  vary  the  pudding  by 
putting  in  candied  lemon  or  orange-peel,  minced  very  fine, 
or  dri^  cherries,  or  three  ounces  of  currants,  or  raisins,  or 
apples  minced  fine. 

if  the  puddings  are  baked  or  boiled,  serve  them  with  white*' 
wine  sauce,  or  Butter  and  sugar. 

Ground  Rice  Pudding. — (No.  107.) 

Put  four  ounces  of  ground  rice  into  a  stew-pan,  and  by 
degrees  stir  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk ;  set  it  on  the  fire, 
with  a  roll  of  lemon  and  a  bit  of  cinnamon;  keep  sthring 


389  nmrnnw  4no  nu. 

it  tin  it  boilg;  ferat  it  to  a  omootli  battw;  then  set  it  on  the 
trivet,  wlim  it  will  ainmier  gently  for  a  quarter  of  aahoiir ; 
then  beat  three  em  on  a  plate,  stir  them  into  the  pudding 
with  two  ounces  of  sugar  and  two  drachms  of  nntmeg,  take 
out  the  lemon-peel  and  cinnamoiiy  stir  it  all  well  together, 
line  a  pie-dish  with  thin  puff  paste  (No.  1  of  receipts  for 
pastiy),  biff  enough  to  hold  it,  or  butter  the  dish  well,  and 
bake  it  half  an  hour;  if  Ixnled,  it  will  take  one  hour  in  a 
mould  well  buttered ;  tluee  ounces  of  currants  may  be  adde4. 

Rke  Snm  fioai.-HNo.  106.) 

Wash  and  pick  half  a  pound  of  rice  very  dean,  put  item 
in  a  saucepan  with  plenty  of  water;  when  it  boUa  let  it  boil 
ten  minutes,  drain  it  on  a  sieve  tiU  it  is  qiute  dry,  and  then 
pareaix  apples,  weighing  two  ounces  andahatf  each.  Divide 
the  rice  into  six  parcels,  in  separate  cloths^  put  one  aj^le  in 
each,  tie  it  loose,  and  boil  it  one  hour;  serve  it  wiUi  st^ar 
and  butter,  or  wine  sauce. 

Rice  jBShiiiemaf^e.«-<No.  109.) 

Put  a  tea-cupful  of  wh<de  rice  into  the  least  water  possi- 
Ue,  till  it  almost  bursts;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  ^ooa  milk 
oar  thin  cream,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  quite  a  mash,  stirring  it  the 
whole  time  it  is  on  the  fire,  that  it  may  not  bum;  dip  a  abxpe 
in  cold  water,  and  do  not  dry  it;  put  in  the  rice,  and  let  it 
stand  until  quite  cold,  when  it  will  come  easily  put  of  the 
shape.  This  dish  is  much  proved  of;  it  is  eaten  with 
cream  or  custard,  and  preserved  fruits^  raspberries  are  best. 
It  should  be  made  the  day  before  it  is  wanted,  that  it  may 
get  firm. 

This  blancmange  will  eat  much  nicer,  flavoured  with 
spices,  lemon-peel,  &c.,  and  sweetened  with  a  little  loaf 
suffar,  add  it  with  the  millL,  and  take  out  the  lemon-peel 
before  you  put  in  the  mould. 

Stme-aU  Pudding.-^No.  110.) 

Put  any  scraps  of  bread  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  to  about 
a  pound,  put  a  pint  of  milk ;  set  it  on  the  trivet  till  it  boils ; 
beat  it  up  quite  smooth ;  then  break  in  three  eggs,  three  ounces 
of  sugar,  with  a  little  nutmeg,  ginger,  or  allspice,  and  stir  it 
all  well  together.  Butter  a  dish  big  enough  to  hold  it,  put  in 
the  puddi]^,  and  have  ready  two  ounces  of  suet  chopped 
very  fine,  strew  it  over  the  top  of  the  puddiiig,  and  bake  it 


three  (quarters  ol  an  hour;  four  ounces  of  currants  "will 
make  it  much  better.  ' 

Batter  Puddings  baked  or  boiled. — (No.  111.) 

Break  three  eeg8  in  a  basin  with  as  much  salt  as  will  lie 
6n  a  siiCpence ;  beat  them  well  together,  and  then  add  four 
ounces  of  flour;  beat  it  into  a  smooth  batter,  and  by  de^es 
add  half  a  pint  of  milk:  have  your  saucepan  ready  boiling; 
and  butter  an  earthen  mould  well,  put  the  pudding  iu,  and 
tie  it  tight  over  with  a  pudding-cloth,  an4  boil  it  one  hour 
and  a  quarter.  Or,  put  it  in  a  dish  that  you  have  well  but- 
tered, and  baike  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Currants  washed  and  picked  clean,  or  raisins  stonBd,  are 
^ood  in  this  pudding,  and  it  is  then  called  a  black  6ap :  or, 
add  loaf  sugar,  and  a  little  nutmeg  and  ginger  without  the 
fniit, — ^it  is  very  good  that  way;  serve  it  with  wine  sauce. 

^^le  Pudding  6(n7ed.— (No.  112^) 

Chop  four  ounces  of  beef  suet  very  fine,  or  two  ounces  of 
butter,  lard,  or  dripping;  but  the  suet  msikes  the  best  and 
tohtest  crudt ;  put  it  on  the  paste-board,  with  eight  ounces 
of  floiur,  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  mix  it  well  together  with 
your  hands,  and  then  put  it  all  of  a  heap,  and  make  a  hol^  in 
the  middle ;  break  one  egg  in  it,  stir  it  well  together  witli 
your  finger,  and  by  degrees  infuse  as  much  water  as  will 
make  it  of  a  stiff  paste :  roll  it  out  two  or  three  times,  with 
the  roUing-ph),  ana  then  roll  it  large  enough  to  receive  thir- 
teen ounces  of  apples.  It  wUl  look  neater  if  boiled  in  a 
basin,  well  buttered,  than  when  boiled  in  a  pudding-cloth, 
well  floured;  boil  it  an  hour  and  three  quarters:  but  the 
surest  way  is  to  stew  the  apples  first  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a 
wine-glassful  of  water,  and  then  one  hour  will  boil  it.  Some 
people  like  it  flavoured  with  cloyes  and  lemon-peel,  and 
sweeten  it  with  two  ounces  of  sugar. 

Gooseberries,  currants,  raspberries,  and  cherries,  damsons, 
and  various  plums  and  fruits,  are  made  into  puddings  with 
the  same  crust  directed  for  apple  puddings. 

Apple  Dumplings. — (No.  113.) 

Make  paste  the  same  as  for  apple  pudding,  divide  it  into 
as  many  pieces  a^  you  want  dumplings,  peel  the  apples  and 
core  them,  then  roll  out  your  paste  large  enough,  and  put  in 
the  apples ;  close  it  all  round,  and  tie  tli^m  in  puddin?-cIoths 
very  tight ;  one  hour  will  boil  them :  and  when  vou  tate  them 

LI 


3dS  novi£8. 

up*  jiut  dip  them  in  cold  Water,  and  put  them  in  a  cm  Ae 
Bize  of  the  dumiAing  wUie  yon  ontie  them,  and  they  will  turn 
out  without  breaking, 

iS^  Pvddmg  or  Dun^9ling8.-^(So.  114.) 

Chop  six  ounces  of  suet  very  fhie :  put  it  in  a  basin  witii 
six  ounces  of  flour,  two  ounces^of  bread-crumbs,  and  a  tear 
spoonful  of  salt ;  stir  it  aU  well  together:  beat  two  eggs  on  a 
plate,  add  to  them  six  table-spoonfuls  of  milk,  put  it  by 
de^es  into  the  basin,  and  atir  it  aH  well  toge^er ;  divide 
it  mto  six  dumplings,  and  tie  tiiem  separate,  previously 
dredging  the  cloth  lifl^tly  with  flour,    Boil  them  one  hour. 

This  IS  very  good  Uie  next  day  fried  in  a  little  butter.  The 
above  will  nmke  a  ^ood  pudding,  boiled  in  an  earthenware 
mould,  with  the  addition  of  one  more  egg,  a  little  more  milk, 
and  two  ounces  of  suet.    Boil  it  two  hours. 

N.B.  The  most  economical  way  of  making  duet  dump- 
lings, is  to  boil  them  without  a  cloth  in  a  pot  with  beef  or 
mutton;  no  eggs  are  then  wanted,  and  the  dumplings  are 
quite  as  light  without:  roll  them  in  flour  before  you  put  them 
into  the  not;  add  six  ounces  of  currants,  washed  and  picked, 
and  you  have  currant  pudding:  or  divided  into  six  paits,  cur- 
raj^t  dumplings;  a  little  sugar  will  improve  them. 

Cottage  Potato  Pudding  or  Cake.—Qio.  115.) 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash,  a  couple  of  piounds  of  potatoes :  beat 
them  up  into  a  smooth  batter,  with  about  three  .quarters  of  a 
pint  of  milk,  two  ounces  of  moist  sugar,  and  two  or  three 
beaten  eggs.  Bake  it  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
Three  ounces  of  currants  or  raisins  may  be  adde^.  Leave 
out  the  milk,  and  add  three  ounces  of  butter, — ^it  will  make  a 
very  nice  cake. 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  PICKLES. 

We  are  not  fond  of  pickles :  these  sponges  of  vinegar  are 
often  very  indigestible,  especially  in  the  crisp  state  in  which 
they  are  most  admired.  The  Indian  fashion  of  pounding 
pickles  is  an  excellent  one:  we  recommend  those  who  have 
any  regard  for  their  stomach,  3net  still  wish  to  indulge  their 
tongue,  instead  of  eating  pickles,  which  are  really  merely 


vehicles  for  taking  a  certain  pcntion  of  vinegar  and  qiice, 
&c.  to  use  the  flavoured  vinegars;  such  as  biimet  (No.  399), 
horseradish  (No.  399*),  tarragon  (No.  396),  mint  (No.  397), 
cress  (Nos.  397*,  401,  403, 405*,  453,  457),  &c.;  by  combina- 
tions of  these,  a  relish  majr  easily  be  composed,  exactly  in 
ha]7n(Hi3r  with  the  palate  of  the  eater. 

The  pickle  made  to  preserve  cucumbers,  &c.  id  generally 
so  strongly  impregnated  with  garlic,  mustard,  and  spice«  &c. 
that  the  original  flavour  of  the  vegetables  is  qmte  over- 
powered; and  if  the  eater  shuts  his  eyes,  his  lingual  nerves 
will  be  puzzled  to  inform  him  whether  he  is  munching  an 
onion  or  a  cucumber,  ^c,  and  nothing  can  be  more  absurd, 
than  to  pickle  plums,  peaches,  apricots,  currants,  grapes,  &;c. 

The  strongest  vinegar  must  be  wed  for  pickling:  it  must 
not  be  boiled  or  the  strength  of  the  vine^  and  spices  will  be 
evaporated*  By  paihoiling  the  pickles  in  brine,  they  will  be 
ready  in  much  less  time  than  they  are  when  done  in  the  usual 
manner,  of  soaking  them  in  cold  salt  and  water  for  six  or 
eight  days.  When  taken  out  of  the  hot  brine,  let  them  get 
C(ud  and  quite  dry  before  you  put  them  into  the  pickle. 

To  assist  the  preservation  of  pickles,  a  portion  of  salt  is 
added;  and  for  the  same  fmrpose,  and  to  give  flavour,  long 
pepper,  black  pepper,  allspice,  ginger,  cloves,  mace,  garlic, 
esQ&alots,  mustard,  horseradish,  and  capsicum. 

The  following  is  the  best  method  of  preparing  the  pickle^ 
as  cheap  as  any,  and  requires  less  care  than  any  other  way. 

Bruise  in  a  mortar  four  ounces  of  the  above  spices;  put 
them  into  a  stone  jar  with  a  quart  of  the  strongest  vinegar, 
stop  the  jar  closely  with  a  bung,  cover  that  with  a  Uadder 
soiJced  with  pickle,  set  it  on  a  trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for 
three  days,  well  shaking  it  up  at  least  three  times  in  the  day; 
the  pickle  should  be  at  least  three  inches  above  the.picklesu 
The  jar  beine  well  closed,  and  the  infusion  being  made  with 
a  mild  heat,  mere  is  no  loss  by  evaporation. 

To  enable  the  articles  pickled  more  easily  and  speedily  to 
imbibe  the  flavour  of  the  pickle  they  are  immersed  in,  pre- 
viously to  pouring  it  on  them,  run  a  larding-pin  through  them 
in  several  places. 

The  spices,  &;c.  commonly  used,  are  those  mentioned  in 
the  receipt  for  pickling  walnuts;  which  is  also  an  excellent 
savoury  sauce  for  cold  meats. 

The  flavour  may  be  varied  ad  ir^nitum  by  adding  celery, 
cress-seed,  or  curry  powder  (No.  455),  or  by  taking  for  the 
liquor  any  of  the  flavoured  vinegars,  &c.  we  have  enumerated 
above,  and  see  the  receipts  between  Nos.  395  and  491. 

Pickles  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  in  ungla2»d  earthen* 


400 

ware^or  gtoM  Jan*  nHuch  ire  preferable,  as  y<m  can,  wiliiaot 
openiBg  tfaeiDy  otwerre  whether  they  want  llllinff  up:  they 
muBt  be  very  earefoUy  stopped  with  well-fitted  TmagBf  aod 
tied  over  aa  cloeely  as  possible  with  a  bladder  wetted  with 
the  pickle;  and  if  to  be  preserved  a  long  time,  after  that  is 
iTVfit  must  be  dipped  in  bottle-cement;  see  pase  197. 

when  the  pickles  are  all  used,  bml  up  the  uquor  with  a 
little  freeh  ^Hce. 

To  walnut  liquor  mav  be  added  a  few  anchovies  and 
eschalots :  let  it  stand  till  it  is  quite  clear,  and  bottle  it:  thus 
you  may  tonish  your  table  witii  an  exceHent  savoury  keepings 
sauce  for  hashes,  made  dishes,  fish,  6c.  at  very  small  cost ; 
see  No.  439* 

Jars  should  not  be  more  than  three  parts  filled  with  the 
articles  pickled,  which  should  be  covered  with  pickle  at  least 
two  inches  idbove  their  surface;  the  liquor  wastesa^amd  all  of 
the  articles  pickled,  that  are  not  covered,  are  soon  spoiled. 

When  they  have  been  done  about  a. week,  open  the  jars, 
and  fill  them  up  with  pickle. 

Tie  a  wooden  spoon,  iiill  of  holes,  round  each  jar  to  take 
them  out  with.   . 

If  you  wish  to  have  gherkins,  4cc«  very  green,  this  mAy 
be  easily  accomplished  by  keeping  them  in  vinegar,  stm- 
ciently  not,  till  they  become  so.  ^ 

If  you  wish  camifiowers,  onions,  &c«  to  be  white,'  use  dis- 
tilled vioegar  for  them. 

To  entirely  prevent  the  mischief  arising  from  the  action 
of  the  aeid  upon  the  metallic  utensils  usually  enjoyed  to 
prepare  pickles,  the  whole  of  the-  process  is  directed  to  be 
performed  in  ungiased  stone  jars. 

N.B.  The  maxim  of  *'(men  your  mouth,  and  shut  your 
eyes,''  cannot  be  better  af^ed  than  to  pickles ;  and  the  oqIj 
direction  we  have  to  record  for  the  improvement  of  theb 
complexion,  is  the  jcriie  of  Dr.  Goldsmith,  ^If  their  colour 
does  not  please  you,  send  *em  to  Hammersmith,  ^that's  the 
way  to  Tuniham  Green.'* 

Commencing  the  list  with  walnuts,  I  must  take  this  oi^r- 
tunity  of  impressing  the  necessity  of  being  strictly  particular 
in  watching  the  due  season;  for  of  all  the  variety  of  articles 
in  this  department  to  furnish  the  welUregulate^  store-room, 
nothing  is  so  precarious,  for  frequently  after  the  first  week 
that  walnuts  come  in  season,  they  become  hard  and  shelled, 
particularly  if  the  season  is  a  veiy  hot  one ;  therefore  let  the 
prudent  housekeeper  consider  it  indispensably  necessary 
they  lihould  be  purchased  as  soon  as  they  first  appear  at 
market ;  should  diey  cOst  a  trifle  more,  that  is  nothing  com- 


pared  to  the  disai^infinent  of  ftuting,  six  months  keQce, 
when  you  go  to  your  pickle-jar,  expeetin|f  a  fine  relish  for 
your  chops,  &c.  to  find  the  nuts  incased  m  a  sheU,  which 
defies  both  teeth  and  steel. 

Nasturtiums  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of  July. 

Garlic,  from  Midsummer  to  Michaelmas. 

Eschalots,  ditto.   . 
"^   Onions,  the  various  kinds  for  pickling,  are  to  be  had,  by  the 
middle  of  July,  and  for  a  month  after. 

Gherkins  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of  July,  and  for  a 
month  after. 

Cucumbers  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of  July,  and  for  a 
month  after. 

Melons  and  mangoes  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of  July, 
and. for  a  month  after. 

dapsicums,  green,  red,  and  yellow,  the  end  of  July;  and  fol- 
lowing month. 

Chilies,  the  end  of  July,  and  following  month.  See  Nos. 
404  and  405*,  and  No.  406. 

Love  apples,  or  tomatas,  end  of  July,  and  throughout 
Ai^st.    See  No.  443. 

Cauliflower,  for  pickling,  July  and  August. 

Artichokes,  for  pickling,  July  and  August. 

Jerusalem  artichokes,  for  pickling,  July  and  August,  and 
Jbr  three  months  after. 

Radish  pods,  for  pickling,  July. 

French  beans,  for  pickling,  Jidy. 

Mushrooms,  for  pickling  and  catchup,  September.  See 
No.  439. 

Red  cabbage,  August 

White  cabbage,  l^ptember  and  October. 

Samphire,  August. 

Horseradish,  November  and  December. 

J^ointits.— (No.  116.) 

Make  a  brine  of  salt  and  water,  in  the  proportion  of  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water ;  put  the  walnuts 
into  this  to  soak  for  a  week ;  or  if  you  wish  to  soften  them  so 
that  they  may  be  soon  ready  for  eating,  run  a  larding-pin 
through  them  in  half  a  dozen  ^aces — ^this  will  allow  the  pickle 
to  penetrate,  and  they  will  be  much  softer,  and  of  better 
flavour,  and  ready  much  sooner  than  if  not  perforated :  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan  with  such  brine,  and  give  them  a  gentle 
simmer ;  put  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain ;  then  lay  them  on  a  fidi 
plate,  ana  let  them  stand  in  the  air  till  they  turn  black— this 

•  L12 


402  ncx£fi8. 

may  take  a  eoii^et>f  days;  pat  tbem  into  glass,  or  unglasEed 
atone  jars;  fill  tnese  about  three  parts  with  the  walnuts,  and 
fill  them  up  with  the  following  pickle. 

To  each  quart  of  the  strongest  vinegar  put  two  ounces  of 
black  pepper,  one  of  ginger,  same  of  eschalots,  same  of 
salt,  half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  and  half  a  drachm  of  Cayenne. 
Put  these  into  a  stone  jar;  cover  it  with  a  bladder,  wetted 
with  pickle,  tie  over  that  some  leather,  and  set  the  jar  on  a 
trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fiie  for  three  days,  shaking  it  up 
three  times  a  day,  and  then  pour  it  wlule  hot  to  the  walnuts, 
and  cover  them  down  with  bladder  wetted  with  the  pickle, 
leather,  &c. 

GAerJWas.— (No.  117.) 

Get  tnose  of  about  four  inches  Ion?,  and  an  inch  in 
diameter,  the  crude  half-grown  little  gherkins  usually  pickled 
are  good  for  nothing.  Put  them  into  (unglazed)  stone  pans ; 
cover  them  with  a  brine  of  salt  and  water,  made  Ddth  a 
Quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water;  cover  them 
down ;  set  them  on  the  earth  before  the  fire  for  two  or  three 
days  till  they  begin  to  turn  yellow ;  then  put  away  the  water, 
and  cover  them  with  hot  vinegar ;  set  them  again  before  the 
fire ;  keep  them  hot  till  they  become  green  (this  will  take 
eight  or  ten  days) ;  then  pour  off  the  vinegar,  having  ready 
to  cover  them  a  pickle  of  fre^h  vinegar,  &c.,  the  same  as 
directed  in  the  preceding  receipt  for  walnuts  (leaving  out  the 
eschalots);  cover  them  with  a  bung,  bladder,  and  leather. 
Read  the  observations  on  pickles,  p.  487. 

Obf. — ^The  vinegar  the  gherkins  were  greened  in  will  make 
excellent  salad  sauce,  or  for  cold  meats.  It  is,  in  fact,  super- 
lative cucumber  vinegar. 

French  Beans— JVos^ur^iifm,  4*c. — (No.  118.) 

When  young,  and  most  other  small  green  vegetables,  may 
be  pickled  the  same  way  as  gherkins. 

J5«e<  iJooto.— (No.119.) 

Boil  gently  till  they  are  full  three  parts  done  (this  will  take 
from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  and  a  half) ;  then  take  them  < 
out,  and  when  a  little  cooled,  peel  them,  and  cut  them  in 
slices  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Have  ready  a  pickle  for  it, 
made  by  adding  to  each  a  quart  of  vinegar  an  ounce  of 
ground  black  pepper,  half  an  ounce  of  ginger  pounded,  same 
pf  salt,  and  of  horseradish  cut  in  thin  slices ;  and  you  may 


PICKlES.  403 

warm  it»  if  you  like,  with  a  few  capsicums,  or  a  httle  Csyeaxus  \ 
put  these  iUffredients  into  a  jar;  stop  it  close,  anid  let  them 
steep  thtee  Bays  on  a  trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fire ;  then, 
when  cold,  pour  the  clear  liquor  on  the  beet-root,  which  have 
previously  arranged  in  ajar. 

Rcti  aiftog-e.— (No.  120.) 

Get  a  fin^  purple  cabbage,  take  off  the  outside  leaves, 
quarter  it,  take  out  the  stsdk,  shred  the  leaves  into  a  colander, 
sprinkle  them  with  salt,  let  them  remain  till  the  morrow, 
drain  them  diy,  put  them  into  a  jar,  and  cover  them  with  the 
pickle  for  beet  roots. 

Omow.— (No.  121.) 

The  small  round  silver  button  onions,  about  as  big  as  a 
nutmeg,  make  a  very  nice  pickle.  Take  off  their  top  coats, 
have  ready  a  stew-pan,  three  parts  filled  with  boilmg  water, 
into  which  put  as  many  onions  as  will  cover  the  top :  as 
soon  as  they  look  clear,  immediately  take  them  up  with  a 
spoon  full  of  holes,  and  lay  them  on  a  cloth  three  timei^ 
folded,  and  cover  them  with  another  till  you  have  ready  as 
many  as^ou  wish :  when  they  are  quite  dry,  put  them  into 
jars^  and  cover  them  with  hot  pickle,  made  by  infusing  an 
oimce  of  horseradish,  same  of  allspice,  and  same  of  black 
pepper,  and  same  of  salt,  in  a  quart  of  best  white-wine 
vinegar,  in  a  stone  jar,  on  a  trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for 
three  days,  keeping  it  well  closed ;  when  cold,  bung  them 
down  tight,  and  cover  them  with  bladder  wetted  with  th^ 
pickje  and  leather. 

Caulifltywers  or  5rocco/«.-^(No.  122.) 

Choose  those  that  are  hard,  yet  sufficiently  ripe,  cut  away 
the  leaves  and  stalks. 

Set  on  a  stew-pan  lialf  full  of  water,  salted  in  proportion 
of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water ;  throw  ui 
the  cauliflower,  and  let  it  heat  gradually;  when  it  boils  take  it 
up  with  a  spoon  full  of  holes,  and  spread  them  on  a  cloth  to  diy 
before  the  fire,  for  twenty-four  hours  at  least ;  when  quite 
dry,  put  them,  piece  by  piece,  into  jars  or  glass  tie-overs,  and 
cover  them  with  the  pickle  we  have  directed  for  beet  roots, 
or  make  a  pickle  by  infusing  three  ounces  of  tiie  curry 
powder  (No.  455)  forihree  days  in  a  quart  of  vuiegar  by  the 
side  of  the  fire. 

Nasturtiums  are  excellent  prepared  as  above. 


404  noKLBs. 

Mtdii  w  mixed  Ptdtles^-Mtngo  dr  Ptcco/tOiWNa  133.) 

Tbe  ftxvomug  iitfredienta  of  Indian  pickles  aie  a  com- 
pound o(  curry  powder,  with  a  large  proportion  of  mustard 
and  garlic. 

The  foUowinff  will  be  found  something  like  the  real  mango 
pickle,  especially  if  the  garlic  b^  used  plentifully.  To  each 
gallon  of  the  strongest  vinegar  put  jfour  ounces  of  cuny 
powder  (No.  455\  same  of  flour  of  mustard  (some  rub  these 
together,  with  half  a  pint  of  salad  6il),  three  of  ginger  bruised, 
and  two  of  turmeric,  half  a  pound  (when  skinned)  of  escha- 
lots slightly  baked  in  a  Dutcn  oven,  two  ounces  of  garlic  pre- 
pared  in  like  manned,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt,  and  two 
^drachms  of  Cayenne  pepper. 

Put  these  ingredients  into  a  stone  Jar;  cover  it  with  a^ 
bladder  wetted  with  the  pickle,  and  set  it  on  a  trivet  by  the 
side  of  the  fire  during  three  days,  shsddng  it  up  three  times 
a  day;  it  will  then  be  ready  to  receive  gherkins,  sliced 
cucumbers,  sliced  onions,  button  onions,  cauliflowers,  celery, 
broccoli,  French  beans,  nasturtiums,  capsicums,  and  small 
green  melons.  The  latter  must  be  slit  m  the  middle  suffi- 
ciently to  admit  a  marrow-spoon,  with  which  take  out  all  the 
seeds ;  then  parboil  the  melons  in  a  brine  that  wiiB  bear  an 
^gg  i  dry  them,  and  flU  them  wiUi  mustard-seed,  and  two 
cloves  of  garlic,  and  bind  the  melon  round  with  packthread. 

Large  cucumbers  may  be  prepared  in  like  manner. 

Green  peaches  make  the  best  imitation  of  the  Indian 
mango. 

The  other  articles  are  to  be  separately  parboiled  (excepting 
the  capsicums]  in  a  brine  of  salt  and  water  strong  enough  to 
bear  an  eg^ ;  taken  out  and  drained,  and  spread  out,  anotho- 
ronghly  dned  in  the  sun,  on  a  stove,  or  before  a  fire,  for  a 
couple  of  days,  and  then  put  into  the  pickle. 

Any  thing  may  be  put  mto  this  pickle,  except  red  cabbage 
and  walnuts. 

It  will  keep  several  years. 

0&9.— To  the  Indian  mango  pickle  is  added  a  considerable 
quantity  of  mustard-seed  o3,  which  would  also  be  an  excels 
Jent  warm  ingredient  in  our  salad  sauces. 


house:k££pi:rs^  manual. 


li 

■ff  SB-a=B-=5H=B5 

d  VARIOUS  USEFUL  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

?  .  " 

i  To  preoent  Beer  becoming  Float  after  it  is  drawn. 

Put  a  piece  of  toasted  bread  into  it,  and  it  will  preserve 
the  spirit  for  twelve  hours  after,  in  a  very  considerable  degree. 

'  To  clean  Plate, 

/^rs^.— Take  care  that  your  (date  is  quite  free  front  grease. 

Second. — Take  some  whitening  mixed  ;ivith  water,  and  a 
sponj^e,  rub  it  well  on  the  plate,  which  ViU  take  the  tarnish 
off;  if  it  is  very  bad,  repeat  the  whitening  and  water  several 
times«  making  use  of  a  brush,  not  too  hard,^  clean  the  intri- 
cate ^arts.  '-' 

7%trrf.^— Take  some  rouge-powder,  mix  it  with  water  to 
about  the  thickness  of  cream,  and  with  a  small  piece  of  leather 
(which  should  be  kept  for  that  purpose  only)  apply  the  rouse, 
which,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  **  Elbow  Grease,^  will, 
in  a  short  time,  produce  a  most  beautiful  polish* 

N.B. — ^The  rouge-powder  may  be  had  at  all  the  silver- 
smiths and  jewellers. 

O&f  . — The  above  is  the  actual  manner  m  which  silversmiths 
clean  their  plate,  and  was  .given  to  me  by  a  respectable 
tradesman. 

7%«  common  Method  of  deaning  Plate. 

First  wash  it  well  with  soap  and  warm  water;  when  per- 
fectly dry,  naiz  together  )i  little  whitening  and  sweet  oil,  so  as 
tom^ke  asoft  paste;  then  takeapiece  of  flannel^  rub  it  on 
the  plate ;  then  with  a  leather,  and  plenty  of  dry  whiteuinff, 
rub  It  dean  off  again;  then, with  a  cleanlfiatiier  aodabrush) 

finish  it.  4 

...j 


Farmskfir 
According  to  the  number  of  your  pictures,  take  the  whMi 


406  tSKFUt  VAXXLY  KECEItA. 

of  the  same  number  of  eggs,  and  an  equal  number  of  pieces 
of  auffar  candy,  the  size  of  a  hazel  nut,  diasolvedy  and  mix 
it  wim  a  tea-apoonful  of  brandy ;  beat  the  whites  of  your 
egg*  to  a  fiotht  and  let  it  settle  $  ta|Le  the  clear,  put  it  to  your 
bruidy  and  sugar,  mix  them  well  together,  and  varnish  over 
your  pictures  with  it.  I 

This  is  much  better  than  any  other  varnish,  as  it  is  easOy 
washed  off  when  your  pictures  wanC  cleaning  again. 

Method  (f  chaning  Paper'Hangings. 

Cut  into  eight  half  quarters  a  quartern  loaf,  two  days  old ; 
it  must  neither  be  newer  nor  staler.    With  one  of  these  pieces, 
after  having  blown  off  all  the  dust  from  the  paper  to  be 
('leaned,  by  the  means  of  a  good  pair  of  bellows,  begin  at  ^e 
top  of  the  room,  holding  the  crust  in  the  hand,  and  wiping 
lightly  downward  with  the  crumb,  about  half  a  yardj  at  each 
stroke,  till  the  upper  part  of  the  hangings  is  completely  cleaned 
all  round.    Then  go  round  again,  with  the  like  sweeping 
stroke  downwards,  always  commencing   each  successive 
course  a  little  higher  than  the  upper  stroke  had  extended,  till 
the  bottom  be  nnished.    This  operation,  if  csfrefully  per^ 
formed,  will  frequently  make  very  old  paper  look  almost 
equal  to  new. 

Great  caution  must  be  used  not  by  any  moans  to  rub  the 
paper  hard,  nor  to  attempt  cleaning  it  the  cross,  or  horizontal 
way.  The  dirty  part  of  the  bread,  too,  must  be  each  time  cut 
away,  and  the  pieces  renewed  as  soon  as  it  may  become 
necessary 

To  make  Woodin  Stairs  have  (ke  appearance  i>f  Stone. 

Paint  the  staurs,  step  by  step,  with  white  paint,  mixed  with 
strong  drsnng  oil.    Strew  it  tnick  with  silver  sand. 

It  ought  to  be  thoroughly  dry  next  morning,  when  the  loose 
sand  is  to  be  swept  off.  The  painting  and  sanding  is  to  be 
repeated,  and  when  dry,  the  surface  is  to  be  done  over  with 
pipe-clay,  whiting,  and  water;  which  may  be  boiled  in  an  old 
saucepan,  and  laid  on  with  a  bit  of  flannel,  not  too  thick, 
otherwise  it  will  be  apt  to  scale  off. 

A  penny  cake  of  pipe*clay,  which  must  be  scraped,  is  the 
common  proportion  to  half  i^  lump  of  whiting. 

The  pipe-clay  and  whiting  id  generally  applied  pnce  a 
week,  but  that  might  be  done  only  as  occasion  requires. 


i 


USEFUL  FAMILY   BBCSHrrS.  407 

I 

I  French  Polish? 

Take  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  gfum  sandarac  and  a  quar^ 
I        ter  of  an  ounce  of  gum  mastic ;  pick  the  dirt  and  black  lumpg 
'        out  very  carefully,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar  quite  fine ; 
put  them  into  a  bottle,  and  add  to  them  a  quartern  (cdd  mea-^ 
I        sure)  of  strong  spirit  of  wine ;  cork  it  down  and  put  it  in  a 
warm  place ;  ahake  it  frequently  till  the  gum  is  entirely  dis- 
solved, which  will  be  in  about  twenty-four  hours. 

Before  using  it,  be  careful  to  ascertain  that  no  grease  is  on 

the  furniture,  as  grease  would  prevent  its  receivinp^  the  polish. 

If  the  furniture  has  been  previously  cleaned  witn  bees'-wax 

'   ^     or  oil,  it  must  be  got  off  by  scraping,  which  is  the  best  way, 

'   ^     but  difficult  to  those  who  do  not  perfectly  understand  it, 

because  if  you  are  not  very  careful,  you  may  scratch  the  sur- 

'         face,  and  create  more  expense  than  a  workman  would  charge 

to  do  it  properly  at  first.    Or  it  may  be  done  by  scouring 

well  with  sand  and  water,  and  afterward  rubbed  quite  smooth 

with  fine  gl^s  paper,  being  careful  to  do  it  with  the  grain  of 

'         the  wood.    To  apply  the  polish,  you  must  have  a  piece  of 

",        list  or  cloth  twisted,  and  tied  round  quite  tight,  and  left  even 

t        at  one  end,  which  shoidd  be  covered  with  a  piece  of  fine  linen 

cloth ;  ^en  pour  a  little'  of  the  polish  on  the  furniture,  and 

rub  it  weU  all  over  till  it  is  worked  into  the  grain  of  the  wood, 

and  begins  to  look  quite  smooth ;  then  take  a  soft  fine  cloth, 

or  what  is  better,  $ui  old  silk  handkerchief,  and  keep  rubbing 

lightly  until  the  polish  is  complete,  which  will  take  two  or 

three  hours.    It  will  greatly  help  the  polish  if  it  is  done  near 

afire. 

If  it  does  not  look  so  smooth  and  clear  as  it  should,  a  little 
sweet  oil  rubbed  lightly  over,  and  cleaned  off  directly,  will 
greatly  heighten  it.  If  any  part  of  the  furniture  has  carving 
about  it,  where  it  will  be  impossible  to  polish,  it  must  be  done 
with  mastic  varnish,  and  a  camePs  hair  brush,  after  the  rest 
is  finiahedk 

When  the  polish  begins  to  look  dull,  it  msy  be  recovered 
with  a  little  spirit  of  wine.  « 

Polish  Jbr  Dining  Tables, 

^  Is  to  rub  them  with  cold-drawn  linseed  oil,  thus :— >put  a 

\  little  in  the  middle  of  a  table^  and  then  with  a  piece  of  linen 
(never  use  woollen)  cloth  rub  it  well  all  over  the  table ;  then 
take  another  piece  of  linen,  and  rub  it  for  ten  minutes, 
then  rub  it  till  quite  dry  with  another  cloth.  This  must  be 
done  eveiy  day  for  several  months,  when  you  will  find  your 


^4 


408  VSMWh   KA^LT    BSCSIPTS. 

inahoffuiy  acquire  a  pemmnent  and  beautiful  lustre,- unkt« 
tainalue  by  any  other  means,  and  equal  to  the  finest  French 
polish;  and  if  the  table  is  covered  Math  the  tablecloth  only, 
the  hottest  dishes  will  make  no  impression  upon  it :  and  w^hen 
once  this  polish  is  produced,  it  will  only  require  dry  raU>mg 
with  a  linen  cloth  tor  about  ten  minutes  twice  in  a  week,  to 
preserve  it  in  the  highest  perfection ;  which  never  fails  to 
please  your  employers ;  and  reinember,  that  to  please  others 
is  always  tiie  surest  way  to  profit  yourself. 

If  the  ai^arance  must  be  more  immediately  produced,  take 
some  Furniture  Paste. 

To  prevent  disagreeahU  SmdUfram  Sinks,  ^»  ^ 

The  disgustful  efiBLuvia  arising  from  cabbage-water,  and 
the  various  ungrateful  odours  which  arise  from  the  sink  of 
kitchens,  drains,  &c.,  are  not  only  an  unnecessary  nuisance 
to  the  ^ood  folks  of  the  second  table,  but  we  believe  such 
miasm  is  not  an  uncommon  cause  of  putrid  fevers,  &c«  Alc, 

It  cannot  be  too  generally  known,  that  a  cheap  and  simple 
apparatus  has  been  contrived  for  carrying  off  the  waste  water, 
&c.  from  sinks,  which  at  the  same  time  effecluallv  prevents 
any  air  returning  back  from  thence,  or  from  any  drain  con- 
nected therewith.  This  is  knownby  the  name  of  St^  lYap, 
and  costs  about  five  shillings. 

No  kitchen  sink  should  be  without  it. 

To  prevent  Moths. 

In  thd  month  of  April  beat  your  fur  garments  well  with  a 
small  cane  or  elastic  stick,  then  lap  them  up  in  linen  without 
pressing  the  fur  too  hard,  and  put  between,  the  folds  scnne 
camphor  in  small  lumps ;  then  put  your  fun  in  this  stale  in 
boxes  well  closed. 

When  the  furs  are  wanted  for  use,  beat  them  well  as  before, 
and  expose  them  for  twenty-four  hours  to  the  air,  whidi  wiM 
take  away  the  smell  of  the  camphor. 

If  the  iur  has  loidr  hair,  as  bear  or  fox,  add  to  the  camphor 
an  eqmd  quantity  of  black  pepper  in  powder. 

Paste. 

To  make  common  paste,  mix  one  table-spocmful  of  fionr 
with  one  of  cold  water,  stir  it  well  together,  and  add  two 
more  table-spoonfola  of  water;  set  it  over  the  fire  and  give 
itaboil,  stimngit  all  the  time,or  it  will  bum  at  the  bottom  of 
the  saucepan. 


(  409  ) 


OBSBRVATIONS  ON  CARVING, 

u  ( Have  you  learned  to  eanre  V  for  it  is  ridiculotts  not  to  carve  well. 

"  A  man  wbo  tells  you  sravely  that  he  cannot  carve,  may  as  well  tell  yea  that  he 
cannot  fted  taimaelf;  itia  ooth  aa  neeeasary  and  as  easy."— Lord  CHi8TSKnBLi»*a 
ilUhljeaer. 

Next  to  giving^  a  good  dinner,  is  treating  our  friends  with 
hospitality  and  attention,  and  this  attention  is  what  young 
people  have  to  learn.  Experience  will  teach  them  in  time, 
but  till  ihey  acquire  it,  tney  will  appear  ungraceful  and 
awkward. 

Although  the  art  qf  cartnfiff  is  one  of  the  most  necessary 
accomplishments  of  a  gentleman,  it  is  little  known  but  to 
those  who  have  long  been  accustomed  to  it;  a  more  useful 
or  acceptable  present  cannot  be  offered  to  the  public  than  to 
lay  before  them  a  book  calculated  to  teach  the  rising  genera- 
tion how  to  acquit  themselves  amiably  in  this  matenal  part  of 
the  duties  of  the  table. 

Young  people  seldom  study  this  branch  of  the  philosophy  * 
of  the  banquet,  beyond  the  suggestion  of  their  own  wmms 
and  caprices;,  and  cut  up  things  not  q^ly  carelessly,  but 
wastefully,  until  they  learn  the  pleasure  of  paying  butchers* 
and  poulterers'  bills  on  their  own  account. 

'Young  housekeepers,  unaccustomed  to  carving,  will,  with 
the  help  of  the  following  instructions,  soon  be  enabled  to 
carve  with  ease  and  elegance ;  taking  care  also  to  observe, 
as  occasion  may  offer,  the  manner  in  which  a  skilful 
operator  sets  about  his  task,  when  a  joint  or  fowl  is  placed 
before  him. 

It  has  been  said,  that  you  may  judge  of  a  person's  charac- 
ter by  his  handwriting;  you  may  judge  of  his  conscience  by 
his  carving. 

Fail  carving  is  much  more  estimable  evidence  of  good 
nature  than  fair  writing :  let  me  see  how  a  gentleman 
carves  at  another  person's  table,  especially  how  he  helps 
himself,  and  I  will  presently  tell  you  now  far  he  is  of  Pope's 
opinion,  that 

"True  aelMove  and  aodal  are  the  same." 

The  selfish  appetites  never  exhibit  themselves  in  a  more 
unmasked  and  more  disgusting  manner  than  in  the  use  th0y 

M  m 


410  cjjvnxa. 

excite  a  man  to  make  of  his  knife  and  fork  in  cat?iuif  {^ 
liinuielf,  especially  when  not  at  his  own  cost.  i 

Some  keen  observer  of  human  nature  has  said,/' Would 
you  know  a  man's  real  disposition,  ask  him  to  dinner,  and 
giye  him  pleqly  to  drink.''  i 

**  The  Oraele^>iay8,  ^  mvite  lliejenlieten  to  dinner,  cer- 
tainly, and  set  him  to  carving."  liie  gentleman  who  wishes 
to  ensure  a  hearty  weleomai»and  frequent  inyitations  to  ^ 
board  of  hospitality,  may  calculate  with  Cockerial  eorreet* 
ness,  that  **  the  easier  he  ai^ars  to  be  pleased,  the  oftener 
he  win  be  inTited."  Instead  of  unblushingly  demanding  of 
the  fur  hostess,  that  the  ptimB  <*tit4nt  of  eveif  dish  be  put 
on  his  plate,  he  must  receive,  (if  net  with  pleasure  or  even 
content,)  with  the  liveliest  expressions  of  thankfulnese, 
whafterer  is  presented  to  him;  and  let  him  not^foiifet  lo 
praise  the  cook  (no  matter  whether  he  be  pleased  with  her 
performance  or  not),  and  the  same  shall  be  reckoned  un.to 
mm  even  as  praise  to  the  mistress." 

^  If  he  does  not  like  his  fare,  he  may  console  himself  with 
the  reflection,  that  he  need  not  eiqpose  his  mouth  to  the  like 
mortification  agaiji.  Mercy  to  the  feelings  of  the  mistress 
of  the  mansion,  will  forbid  his  then  appearing  otherwise  than 
absolutely  delighted  with  it,  notwithstathdihg  it  may  be  bis 
extreme  antipathy.  If  he  like  it  ever  so  little,  he  wiH  find 
occasion  to  c<mgratulate  himself  on  the  advantage  his  diges- 
tive organs  will  d^vLve  from  his  making  a  taiderate  dinner; 
and  consolation  from  contemplating  t^^  double  rdish  he  10 
creating  /or  the  following  meal,  and  anticipating  the  rare  and 
delicious  sest  of  (that  best  sauce) 'good  appetite,  and  an  un« 
restrained  indulgence  of  his  gourmandizmg  fancies  at  the 
chop-house  he  frequents.'^ 

The  foHowinff  extract  from  that  rare  book,  611.S8  Ross's 
Sekodfir  «fte  Qg/Uen  efiheMnOk,  ttoio.  168^  shows  thai 
the  art  of  carving  was  a  much  more  elaborate  affair  iinnerly 
than  it  is  at'^sent. 

Le  oaAim  csGUTsm  TaAMCBANT,  or  ih»  Chreai  Muter  Carver, 

^  The  exercise  of  a  master  carver  is  mor^  noble  and  cmn* 
mendfllde,  it  may  be,  than  eveiy  one  will  imagine ;  for  mip- 
pose  that  life  to  be  the  foundation  of  -all  that  is  done  in  tiie 
w6rld,ihis  life  is  not  to  be  sustained  ws^outmaintammg  our 
natnral  heat  by  eating  and  dnnkinff." 

Never  trust  a  cook  teaser  wiui  the  important  office  of 
carver,  or  place  him  within  reach  of  any  principal  dish.  I 
Shan  never  forget  the  following  exhibition  of  a  selfish  spoiled 
eiuld :  Uie  first  dish  that  Master  J^nny  n^angled,  was  three 
mackerel;  he  cut  off  the  upper  side  of  each  fish:  next  came 


CARVlNd.  411 

k  cXKXfike  of  fowld;  iti  takiiig  off  the  win^  of  which  the 
yOQAff  gcntlMtiaii  so  hideously  hacked  and  nuserahly  mangled 
every  oUier  pairt,  that  when  they  were  brought  for  luncheoti 
the  roUowin(^  day^  they  appeared  as  if  lust  removed  from  a 
conclave  of  daiiity  cats,  rather  than  having  been  carved 
by  a  rational  creature.  When  the  master  of  the  family, 
who  was  eirtretnely  near-sighted,  sat  down  to  his  nooning, 
in  expectation  of  enjoying  Ae  agreeable  amusement  of 
having  a 

"  Nice  Ut  of  chicken 
For  liiB  owa  private  pfcklUSi 

no  sooner  had  he  put  on  his  snecs,  and  begun  to  focus  his 
fowl,  than  he  suddenly  started  up,  rang  for  the  cook,,  and 
after  haflng  vociferated  at  her  carelessness,  and  lectured  her 
for  beinjf  so'  extremely  perfunctory  and  disorderly  in  not 
keeping  the  cat  out  of  the  cupboard,  till  his  appetite  for 
scolding  was  pretty  weU  satisfied,  he  paused  for  her  apology: 
the  guardian  genius  of  the  paiitry,  to  his  extreme  astonish- 
ment, informed  him,'  that  his  suspicions  concerning  die 
hideous  apcearance  which  had  so  shocked  him,  was  erro- 
neous: sucn  unsigh^tly  havoc  was  not  Occasioned  by  the 
epicurism  of  a,/&fir-legged  brute,  and  that  the  fowls  were 
exactly  in  the  same  state  they  came  from  the  table,  and  that 
young  Master  Johnny  had  cut  them  up  himself. 

Those  in  the  parlour  should  recollect  the  importance  of 
setting  a  good  exainple  to  their  friends  at  the  second  table. 
If  they  cut  bread,  meat,  cheese,  &c.  fairly,  it  will  go  twice  as 
fkr  as  if  hacked  and  mangled  by  some  sensualists,  who  a{^ar 
to  have  less  consideration  for  their  domestics  than  a  good 
sportsman  for  his  dogs. 

A  prudent  carver  will  distribute  the  dainties  he  is  serving 
out  in  equal  division,  and  regulate  his  helps  by  the  proportion 
his  di  A  bears  to  the  number  it  is  to  be  divided  among,  and 
considering  the  quantum  of  appetite  the  several  guests  are 
presumed  to  possess. 

If  you  have  a  Inrd,  or  other  delicacy  at  table,  which  cannot 
be  apportioned  out  to  all  as  you  wish,  when  cut  up,  let  it  be 
handed  round  by  a  servant ;  modesty  will  then  pirompt  the 
guests  to  take  but  a  small  portion,  and  such  as  perhaps  cou]4 
not  be  offered  to  them  without  disrespect. 

Those  chop-house  cormorants  who 

**  Critique  your  wine,  and  analyze  your  meati 
Yet  on  plain  pudding  deign  at  liome  to  eat,** 

are  generally  tremendously  officious  in  serving  out  the  loaves 


412  CAKVIKO. 

and  fishes  of  other  |Mple ;  for,  under  the  notion  of  ^appesaaog 
exquisitely  amiable,  and  killingly  agreeable  to  the  guests^ 
they  are  ever  on  the  watch  to  distribute  themselves  the 
dainties*  which  it  is  the  peculiar  part  of  the  master  and  mis- 
tress to  serve  out,  and  is  to  them  the  most  pleasant  part  of 
the  business  of  the  banquet;  the  pleasure  of  helping  their 
friends  is  the  gratification  which  is  their  reward  for  the  trouble 
they  have  had  in  preparing  the  feast :  such  p^entry  a^  the 
terror  of  all  good  housewives ;  to  obtain  theur  favourite  cut 
they  will  so  unmercifully  mangle  your  joints,  that  a  lady's 
^inty  lapdog  would  har^yget  a  meal  fromrthem  afterward; 
but  which,  if  managed  by  the  considerative  hands  of  an  old 
houseke^)er,  would  furnish  a  decent  dinner  for  a  large  f^ly. 

The  man  of  manners  picks  not  the  best,  but  rather  takes 
tlie  worst  out  of  the  dish,  and  gets  of  eve^  thing  (unless  it 
be  forced  upon  him)  always  tli^  most  indifrerent  fare  by  this 
civility,  the  best  remains  for  others ;  which  being  a  con^li* 
ment  to  all  that  are  present,  every  body  will  be  pleased  with 
it ;  the  more  they  love  themselves,  the  more  they  are  forced 
to  approve  of  his  behaviour,  and  ^titude  stepping  in,  they 
are  obliged,  almost  whether  they  will  or  not,  to  thinE  favoura- 
bly of  him. 

AAer  this  manner  it  is  that  the  weU-bred  man  insinuates 
himself  in  the  esteem  .of  all  the  companies  he  comes  in ;  and 
if  lie  gets  nothing  else  by  it,  the  pleasure  he  receives  in  re^ 
fleeting  on  the  applause  which  he  knows  is  secpetly  given  him^ 
is  to  a  proud  man  more  than  equivalent  for  his  tormer  ed.f- 
denial,  and  overpays  self-love,  with  interest,  the  loss  it  sus- 
tained in  his  complaisance  to  others. 

If  there  are  seven  or  eight  apples,  or  peaches^  among  peo- 
ple of  ceremony,  that  are  pretty  nearly  equal,  he  who  is  pre^ 
viuledon  to  choose  first,  will  take  that  which,  if  there  be  any 
considerable  difference,  a  child  would  know  to  be  the  worst. 

This  he  does  to  insinuate,  that  he  looks  upon  those  he  is 
with  to  be  of  superior  merit ;  and  that  there  is  not  one  whom 
he  does  not  love  better  than  himself.  Custom  and  general 
practice  make  this  modish  deceit  familiar  to  us,  without  being 
shocked  at  the  absurdity  of  it. 

*'  If  people  had  been  used  to  speak  from  the  smcerity  of 
their  hearts,  and  act  according  to  the  natural  sentiments  tney 
felt  within,  t31  they  were  three  or  four  and  forty,  it  would  be 
unpossible  for  them  to  assist  at  this  comedy  of  manners 
without  either  loud  laughter  or  indigestion ;  and  yet  it  is  cer« 

*  He  who  sreedilyfrappies  for  tlnprhne  parta,  exhibits  indabitaUe  evidence 
that  he  eame  for  tiiat  purpose. 


CAKvina.  413 

tain,  ihat  aucb  a  beluTionr  makes  ua  more  tolenble  to  one 
another,  than  we  could  be  otberwiae." 

The  master  or  mistress  of  tlie  table  should  appear  to  con- 
tinue eating  as  long  as  any  of  the  company;  and  shouM,  ac- 
coidingly,  help  themselres  in  a  way  that  will  enable  them  to 
give  this  specimen  of  good  manners  without  being  particu- 
lar y  obaeired. 

"  It  belongs  to  the  master  and  miatreBs,  and  to  ao  one  elae, 
to  desire  their  guests  to  eat,  anil,  indeed,  carving  belongs  to 
nobody  but  the  master  and  mistress,  and  those  whom  they 
thinknttodeBire,whoaretodeliverwhat  they  cut  to  the  mas- 
ter or  mistress,  to  be  by  them  distributed  at  their  pleasure." 

A  seat  should  be  placed  for  the  carver  sufficiently  elevated 
to  give  him  a  command  of  the  table,  as  the  act  oi  rising  to 
perform  this  duty  is  considered  ungraceful. 

The  carving-knife  should  be  light  and  sharp ;  and  it  should 
be  firmly  grasped;  although  in  using  it,  strength  is  not  as 
essential  as  skill,  particularly  if  the  butcher  has  properly 
divided-the  bones  of  such  joints  as  the  neck,  loin,  and  breast 
of  veal  or  of  mutton. 

The  dish  should  not  be  far  from  the  carver ;  for  when  it  Is 
too  distant,  by  occasioning  the  arms  to  be  too  much  extended, 
ii  gives  an  awkward  appearance  to  the  person,  and  renders 
the  task  more  difficult. 

In  carving  fish,  care  should  be  taken  not  to  break  the  flakes, 
and  this  is  best  avoided  by  the  use  of  a  flsh  trowe),  which  not 
being  shaip,  divides  it  better  than  a  steel  knife.  Examiiie 
tiiis  little  luawing,  and  you  will  see  how  a  cod's  head  and 
sboulden  should  Be  carved.  The  head  and  shoulders  of  a  cod 
contain  tiie  richest  and  best  part  of  this  excellent  fleta. 

fig.  I. 


4  H  CABvntc. 

IHb  finl  pece  mty  be  Uken  off  in  the  dinction  ot  a  h 

by  patting  in  the  trowel  at  Oe  bnck  or  thick  put  ot  the  flab, 

■M  the  iwt  in  McceaaiTe  order.    Aamallpart  oT  the  tound 

■hould  b«  given  with  each  alice,  and  will  n  found  cloae  to 

(be  back-Moe,  hf  raishig  the  thin  tap  <!.    It  ia  known  by 

behig  daiker  doomed  and  more  tranaparent  than  the  other 

paitaof  the  fiah.    Almost  ereiypait  of  a  cod's  head  ia  caa- 

aideted  pwd  I  the  pidMo.  the  tongoBi  the  jdly,  and  film  parta* 

«  *,  iqwn  wid  inunediaMy  aioimd  the  iaw  and  bonea  of  the 

liead.  «n  eomidered  aa  deUoate  ettaoff  vj  many  persone. 

A  b^ed  fowl  kaa  tiw  legs  bant  mvard  (see^.  3),  and 

bateoed  to  tne  «des  by  a 

ftg.  S.  akewer,  whieh  ia  removed  be- 

fiaie  the  fowl  is  sent  to  table. 

A  loaated  fowl  ahould  not  have 

any  part  <tf  the  k^  cot  <tfi  SB 

in  the  boOid  fowl;  tntt  after 

th^    have    been    prepay 

aeraped  and  waahed,  they  are 

drawn  totelhw  at  Aa  very 

extmnity  of  the  breast     A 

boiled  and  a  roasted  fowl  ar* 

euii  carved  in  the  8«ne  aan> 

ner.  The  wings  arc  taken  effiu 

the  direetioaofaWfrC^.S). 

Your  knife  vamU  divide  the  jeint.  but  afterward  yon  nave 

oidy  to  take  ftm  hidd  of  the  pinitm  with  your  foA,  draw 

the  wtnga  tomida  tlw  legs,  and  you  will  And  that  the  moseleB 

B^amle  better  than  if  you  cut  them  with  yoor  IuuuCb-   Slip 

yoor  knife  between  the  leg  and  Ou  body,  and  cut  to  die  bone» 

then  with  the  forii  turn  the  leg  back,  and,  if  the  fowl  be  not 

a  very  old  one,  the  jt^ts  wfll  give  way. 

After  the  four  qwiters  are  thua  removed,  enter  the  knife  at 

the  breaat,  in  the  direction  «  d 

(fig  3),  and  you  will  aeparate 

the   merrythought   from   the 

bteast-btme ;  and   by  placing 

your  knife  under  it,  Un  it  up, 

H«uing  it  backward  on  the 

Jiah,  and  you  will  easily  n- 

roove  that  bcme.    Hie  collar- 

bonea,  •  «,  lie  on  each  aide  the 

menrthougbt,  and  are  to  l>e 

lifted  iq)  at  the  broad  end,  by 

the  knife,  and  forced  towaids  the  breaat-boiie,  till  tiw  part 

which  is  fastened  to  it  breaks  off.    The  breaat  ia  next  to  be 


CAsriNo.  415 

aepaiated  tmm  the  cucasa,  by  cutting  Uuough  Que  liba  on 
each  Bide,  fkom  one  end  of  the  fowl  to  tbe  other.    Tbe  back 
ifl   then   laid   upward,  and    the     kui& 
FSf.  4.  pasaed  firmly  across  it,  near  the  middle,   . 

while  the  fork  lifts  1^)  the  other  end.   The 
aide  bone  are  lastly  to  be  sepantad;  to 
I   do  which  turn  the  tnck  fimn  you,  md  Od 
,  each  side  the  back<boiie,  in  tbe  direction 
'^SS  0^-  ^)>  y**  will&id  &ioint,  which 
you  muat  separate,  and  tbe  cutting  ttp  of 
of  the  fowl  will  be  complete. 
Ducks  and  partrtdgei  are  to  be  cat  im  in  the  same  manner  I 
in  the  latter,  howerer,  tbe  mcrrytbought  ii  seldom  separated 
ttom  the  lM«iut,  unleM  tbe  Urds  are  very  la^e. 

Turkeys  and  geeae  have  sUcea  cut  on  eadi  aide  of  tbe 

breaat>bone,  imd  by  beginning  to  cot  from  the  wing  upwards 

to  the  breast-bone,  many  more  slices  may  be  obtaioei  than  if 

— a  cut  from  tbe  bieastlboae  to  the  wkigs,  altbou^  I  do  not 

~k  the  sticks  are  qnite  as  handsome  as  if  cut  in  tiu  latter 


TOD  cut 
UflkU 


Pigeons  (see^.  6)  are  either  cut  from 
tbe  neck  to  a,  vlucb  is  the  fairest  way,  or 
/mm  A  to  c,  which  is  now  the  most  Cuhiooa- 
ble  mode ;  and  the  lower  pjurt  is  esteemed 
ibebett. 

There  aie~two  ways  of  earring  a  hare.    When  it  is  yonng, 

the  knife  may  be  entered. near  the  shoulder  at  a  {BeeJSg^T}, 

Fig.  7. 


*      416  cASViRa. 

and  cut  down  to  h,  oo  each  side  of  the  backbcme;  and  Ihiu 
this  hiae  viU  be  divided  into  three  parta.  -  The  back  is  to  be 
wain  divided  into  four  parta,  where  the  dotted  lines  m  in 
&  cut:  thoM  and  the  lega  are  considered  the  beat  puts, 
•  tfaongfa  the  ihoulden  are  preferred  by  aOme,  and  are  to  be 
taken  off  in  the  direction  of  e  d  «.  The  pieces  shoold  be  laid 
matlf  oa  the  plates,  aa  thej  are  Bepataled,  and  each  [date 
serred  with  stiriBng  and  gnvy.  When  the  hare  is  old,  it  is 
better  not  to  attempt  the  division  down  the  back,  which 
wonld  mquire  mXKh  strength :  bnt  the  leg:s  idioiild  be  aepa>- 
rated  from  the  body  at/  and  xbcn  the  meat  cut  off  from  each 
aide,  and  divided  into  moderate  sized  niecoH.  If  the  brains 
and  ears  are  requiied,  cut  off  the  heao,  and  put  your  knife 
between  the  upper  and  lower  jaw,  and  divide  them,  which 
will  enable  you  to  lay  the  upper  Jaw  flat  on  the  dish :  then 
force  the  pomt  of  your  knife  mto  the  centre,  and  having  cut 
the  head  mto  two  parts,  distribute  the  brams  with  the  ears  to 
t}iOM  vfbo  like  them. 

Rabhits  are  carved  in  the  same  maimer  as  a  hare,  except 
that  the  back  is  divided  only  into  two  pieces,  irtiich,  wiUi 
the  legs,  are  considered  the  most  delicate  parts. 
A  ham  is  generally  cut  in  the  direction  of  a  to  fr,  (^.  8) 


down  to  the  bone,  and  through  the  prime  part  of  the  ham. 
Another  way  is  to  cut  a  small  hole  at  c,  and  to  enlarge  it  l^ 
cutting  circular  pieces  out  of  it ;  this  method  brings  yon  to 
the  b^  part  of  the  ham  directly,  and  has  an  advantage  over 
the  other  in  keeping  in  the  gravy. 

A  leg  of  mutton  is  more  easily  carved  than  any  other  joint, 
but  nevertheless  there  is  a  mode  of  doing  it  neatly,  wfaicb 
should  be  observed.  The  first  slice  should  be  taken  out  at 
« { A"-  *)•  between  the  knuckle  6  and  the  thick  end ;  and  the 


1^.9. 


second  and  Bubsequent  slices  shoidd  be  cut  In  tbie  diiectiou, 
until  70U  are  stopped  by  the  cramp^bone  at  c ;  then  turn  it 
up,  and  take  the  rettiaimng  slices  from  the  back,  in  a  longi- 
tudinal  direction.  When  the  leg  is  rather  lean,  help  some 
tax  from  the  broad  end  with  each  slice.  The  best  and  most 
juicy  slices  aie  toward  the  broad  end:  but  some  persons 

E refer  the  knuckle  r  and  where  economy  is  an  object,  the 
nuckle  should  always  be  eaten  when  the  joint  is  hot,  as  it 
becomes  very  dry  when  cold.  If  the  joint  is  to  be  brought 
again  to  table,  it  has  a  much  neater  and  more  respectable 
appearance  if  it  be  helped,  altogether,  from  the  knuckle  end, 
when  it  is  hot.  This  direction  may  appear  trifling;  but  a 
good  economist  knows  the  importance  of  earring,  when  the 
circumstances  of  a  family  require  that  a  joint  m  brought  & 
second  time  to  t^e. 
A  haunch  of  veqison  ( Jig.  10)  should  be  cut  down  to  the 

Fig.  10. 


yii.niiiimil 


41C  cAMnss. 

bone  in  the  dliectioD of  the  Ikie ahc,\jy  which meaiu  the 
KTBTT  is  allowed  to  flow  ^ut :  then  the  caner,  turning'  the 
Broad  end  of  the  haunch  toward  him,  should  cut  in  deep 
from  b  to  d-  He  then  cnts  thin  ilices  in  the  same  directioo, 
takiiif  care  to  give  to  ettcli  person  whoa  he  helps  a  due  pro- 
portion of  fat,  which  ia,  by  lovers  of  venison,  highlv  prized : 
there  is  gaoerally  more  of  this  delicacjr  on  the  leit  side  of 
b  d  than  on  the  ouier  side. 

A  hwiDch  of  mutton  is  e&rved  in  Qie  aante  nnnner  as 
veaiBon. 

A.  saddle  of  mutton  (^.  11)  is  cut  bom  the  tail  to  the 

r>g.  II. 


»iid  on  each  side  &e  tmck-boRe,  in  the  direction  of  the  Iine« 
•  (,  continuing  downward  to  the  edge  e,  until  it  become  too 
f&t.  The  slices  should  be  cut  thin,  and  if  the  joint  be  i  large 
me,  they  may  be  divided  into  two  ports.  The  fat  will  be 
found  on  the  sides. 

A  sucking  pig  is  cut  up  before  it  is  sent  to  table.    The 

rips  may  be  divided  into  two  parts  as  well  as  the  joints.     The 

*  rioa  ue  cORMdered  tbe  ftsest  part,  and  the  neck  end  under 

(he  shoulder.    Part  of  the  ki^eys  should  be  added  to  eacli 

helping. 

A  shoulder  of  mnlton,  if  properly  roasted,  is  suj^tosed  to 
yield  many  choice  pieces,  but  this  depends  very  much  npcm 
the  carver.  Tbe  first  cut  should  be  in  the  direction  e  b  {JSg- 
13)  i  and,  after  taking  a  few  slices  on  each  aide  of  the  gap 


which  follows  the  first  cut,  some  good  slices  may  be  obtained 
on  each  side  of  the  ridge  of  the  shoulder  blade,  in  the  direc- 
tion c  d.  When  the  party  is  numerous,  slices  may  be  taken 
fKHn  the  under  side ;  aai  it  is  on  this  side,  under  the  edge  e, 
that  the  fat  is  found.* 

BnltodcofBt^ 
Is  always  boiled,  and  requires  no  print  to  point  out  how  it 
should  be  carved.  A  thick  slice  should  be  cut  off  all  round 
the  buttock,  that  your  friends  mav  be  helped  to  the  juicy  and 
prime  part  of  It.  The  outside  tnus  cut. off,  ttiin  slices  may 
then  be  cut  from  the  top ;  but  as  it  is  a  dish  that  is  frequently 
broi^t  to  table  cold  a  second  day,  it  should  always  be  cut 
haniuome  and  even.  When  a  shce  all  round  would  be  con- 
sidered too  much,  the  half,  or  a  third,  may  be  given  with  a 
thin  slice  of  fat.  On  one  side  there  is  a  part  whiter  than 
ordinary,  by  some  called  the  white  muscle.  In  s<Hne  ^aces, 
a  buttock  is  generally  divided,  and  tliis  while  part  sold  sepa- 
rate, as  a  delicacy;  but  it  is  by  no  means  bo,  the  meat  being 
coarse  and  dry;  whereas  the  darker-coloured  parts,  though 
i^aientiy  of  a  coarser  grain,  are  of  a  looser  texture,  man 
tender,  fuller  of  gravy,  and  better  flavoured;  and  men  of 
distinguishing  palates  ever  prefer  them. 


in  vBf  of  oanlni  »  •banUR  of  mnnon.  uil  sne  wbkb  m^' penonii 


pnTa,  iM  In  ilica  fitm  ibe  EnuekVi  lo  the  tmd  end  ctf  Ihe  ibiMildi 
iMonOlde.    Kee tilt }lBaf ana g. 


w 


INDBX. 


The  ngarwintihe  body  of  Uieliidac  refer  to  the  Number  of  the  Beedpls:  tboiein 
the  eohmm,  under  the  word  Page,  to  where  the  Beeeipts  an  to  be  found;  ^nd 
tboae  preceded  by  Ap.,  to  the  Beceipte  (n  the  Appendix. 


Acinoflenifia,a(tiflcift1,407*......  ^ 

AoGum  <m  AdultenitiflNW,  quoted, 

note  to  433. .,.  280 

Aniildennaniachatai8,57..... 135 

A-la-mode  beef,  or  veal,  or  English 

turtle,a03 312 

AOgsAcetemeaeeoftAl^ 275 

■    i  tincture  of,  413.... « ib. 

■  Sir  H.  Sloane  on,  note. *•  >    03 

AiMrt^  cufltards  ( Ap.  54.) 375 

Anchovy  eauce,  370 ,  233 

eBwnce,433 279 

toait,573...»-. 354 

=sss:'i*« ** 

..  powder,  435 ib. 

'  '    .        to  keep  them  well,  Oba.  to 

27a. 233 

ApicioB,  his  sauce  for  bcHledchlcken    35 
Appetite,  good,  why  tin  best  sauce   53 

torerresh 38 

Appert,  bis  art  of  preserving  vegeta- 

bles,note 164 

Apple  pie  (Ap.  33.) 360 

pudding,  boiled  (Ap.ll20...  397 

'  dumiriings,  ditto  (Ap..ll3.). .  Ib^ 

tart,  creamed  (Ap.  33.)  .....  300 

■ sauce,  304. : 343 

Apples, to  dry  (Ap.^.).. 384 

Apricot  Jam  (Ap.  93.) 387 

Artichokes,  136,...^ 166 

^  Jerusalem,  117 160 

AqNuragus,  123... ........ ..^.*..«.  161 

soup,  828. 306 

Arrack,  to  hnitate,  480 20» 

AriMithnOt,  Dr.,  quoted,  Pre&cev . . .  vliL 
Abemetby,  Mr.,  quoted,  note.. .....    20 

Bacim,  13 • 117 

^sUcesof,536 334 

—  relishlttg  raahen  of,  537. ... .    ib. 

— ^^spaieiih,  to  roast< 138 

BaiB-Harie,noteto485andSB0*  304.336 

Bakiiw...,. 73 

Baked  custard  (Ap.  52.) 375 

88.) 384 


peBn(Ap.8S,). 


ji 


Barley  water,  565 ...^.^ 

broth,  204 109 

'         to  make  a  gaUon  for  a 

groat... 210 

sugar (ApwjBO.) /..  386 

drops  (Ap. 91.).. ib. 

Basil,  when  to  d^ 291 

•  vinegur,  or  wine,  307 260 

sauce,26«.... 231 

Batter  pudding  (Ap.  HI.) 397 

Beans,  French,  133 164 

Beauty 51 

Becliamel,  384 357 

Beef  bouUli,  5. 338. 493.. ..  .100. 212.  906 
-^— hownutiitiveandeconomicidfS  109 

t08alt,6 ^  111 

8avoury,496 310 

— —  a  round  of,  salted,  to  boil,  7. . .  113 
——  what  the  outside  slices  are  good 

for.N.B.toT. ib. 

H-Bone,8 ..^ ib. 

ribs,  and  rolled, 9..... 114 

baronof ;.    34 

sirloin,  roasted,  10 122 

—  proper  way  to  carve,  in  note 

to  19 183 

as  mock  bareJM* 141 

—  ribs,  roasted,  90w 1S3 

-'—  ditto,  boned  and  rolled,  81 124 

steaks,  to  fry,  85. 148 

steak  pudding  (Ap.  24.) ;  367 

season  for,  see  note  to  94. 151 

with  onions,  86. 1^ 

: tobroU,94. IS] 

-•— the  superlative  steak ib. 

-< —  Maebeth*s  receipt,  and  le  vi6- 

rltahle  bif-teck  de  Beauvilliera, 

N.B.to94 1S2 

-^tOBtew,S00 811 

with  onioa  gravy,  301 8i2 

^-broth,185 M» 

broth  for  glaie,  or  portable 

soup  or  sauce,  2IBiL S83 

gravy,  186. 194 

—— strong  gravy,  188. lb. 

-^cttiua^ifioi « m 

n 


4S2 


» 


riiteoCi 


ftlW.- 


'kftriooc  4BS*  ••••••••••••••••• 

Hoiilari  MvvMry,  baked  or 


308 

310 


% 


Bum,  plain  (Ap.  77.) 

plttiii(Aii.80.) *• 

Eu}l(Ap.6ft.) 3» 

Bamet  Yinenr  has  the  nine  taMe 


Ih:  f  '  a8'eiiciiliiDer,3BV, 


ib.  I 

SM 
3I§ 
317 
304 


lb. 


Itt. 


—— hMiied,  and  Mmcs  broiled,  906 

eold,bidifcd,*e.«7...--.... 

r,  to  recover  when  hard,  4».'»»  • 

-to  bottle,  466 

aip,4M. 

;ioot8,137 •• 

IZLto|iWUeCAF>l»)* 

BiKaitdnpi(A|i.08.}^ — 

Wihiip.  n— wt  oA^iA ..~...  875 

CehTbie  exodleDt  mock  tuctle,  note 

imte9<7. fW 

Black  oocfc^  71 JJJ 

Blenrjnante  (Ap.  46.)^ ... « MJ 

PoiTimw  ■.•..••.>*••••>*••«>    vO 

Boiled  ciifltanL  (Aik53.)..  v 37J 

BeuiUondesalitd»196 --....  M7 

Bonne  bouche  for  feeae,  paik,  &e. 

341 aa 

Brandy^how  to  obtainieiBitae  Cog 


BuTTBm,  kett  m4amer  of  mdtMg. 
■  .  to  recover  when  oiled..  • 


Biufoo, 

Bttttaf** 

46L. 


dt$ta»h0rts, 


*«>  «M«kfli  Ite  v«h 


970 
«1 
3S3 

990 


getaUee. 

Butler,  Obi.  on  the  biuinen 


of  a 


'  otauified2SS0 • 


Uk 


BUAD,  to  BMke  (Ap;  U».). 

—  nnce,aSU 

—  sippeti,  f ded,  SHI. . . 
cnwhi,do.3M...>* 

SSft. 


380 
S46 

lb. 

ib. 
344 


..  403 
..  370 


pudding, 

BroecoU,120....  ^ 

pickled,  (Ap-lXk) 

Bride,  or  wedding  cake  (A^56.) 

BrilL143. 

Brains  are  aedlydepemiettt  on  the 

._Df.GBdogan*s  obs.  theneoo, 

note •••' -  fSi 

Brain  balls 986 

BaoiLise,  sea  the  4*  chapter  of 

Rudiments  of  Cookery..... » 

Braae,acotch,905.*....^ W 

BStoStiX^tSrT. »  do«hte»tto.ordo.Hmo.....984 


Cathoug  FAMiKind,  cooker  tm, 

158. 9M ^^?E 

cabbage,  11& .-•:-  >» 

boiled  and  lirted,  or  bokbie 

and  squeak,  110. 50& .,  MO.  31* 

Cakes,  common  seed  (Ap.50>) 377 

rich, ye9»(Ap. Oft.).. .->......  3TO 

~.^*..qu8ett,orheaftCA]^Mr.).«**    m 

^nwebun^  (Ap.fe).......   Hfc 

•— — ^BaidMiry(Aip.Ot»)>. 3w 

^ Savoy,  or  spongy  (Ap.  €7.>. .  J8f 

KataiaaCAp.71.)* « 

^— ^alooend sponge  (Api 78.}....    ib^ 

dtottaiead(Ap.74.) »- 

.     .  Derby,  or  short  (Ap. 87.) ....  389 

Yorhihtin(Ap.l04.) 30i 

Calf,  a  fatted,  prefined  to  a  starvM  ^, 

turtle,icu. «1 

'Bhewltobei!,10. IH 

tohasb,10 n^ 

ragoOtfSffK W 

mock  tnitle,  847 910^ 

fiietjeUy,481 9» 

e^amp  vinegar,  403. ^ 

Carp,  stewed,  158. 177 

GairetSflfiO. Jg 

-, soup,  913 901 

Caving,  best  rule  for 43 

— *^  ancient  terms  of,  note. ...   ib. 


black 
offragmeiUs. 

beef^lSS. 

toclariiy,252*... 

mutton,  194 

mock  ditto,  196... 
with  euUets,  490.. 
BooiBh  barley,  9fM 

fotsickt^SM..'*" 
Browniiif,to  colour  soup 
B.3SaL. 


4fce. 


.»*».iu*-. 


3& 

54 

193 

9r7 

196 
M7 
307 
190 
390 

M6 


Qlitof  fsm  for  a  wedu</«^< 


double  ditto,  or  dog^sap. 

of  walnuts,  438 » 

of  oysters,  441.. i..  9» 

-of  cockles, 449. ib. 

of  cucumbers,  399... 55 

puddii^,  446 » 

ib. 
136 


Caper  sauoe,  974 

iikOck,97& 


!••••••••••••••• 


i-a  »«*•.•  ••••«■* 


Capon,  to  loasl,  98. 
,  CapiaaiKe,4IT8......  e«v«ttc 

Canunei,  to  boil  sugar  to)  (Ap.83.)  9K 

CauIiflower,19S^..>* ^:^'''*  2* 

^....-..plCKlBd(App.]at>...  4e» 


413 


€!Mldlt,538»»»« 

CkiiiioBi.to«arvefi. ....... . 

€3tfBtaMt  htm  to  iiiak^4M. 


44 

973 


noie^. 


Muice,a»,m ffi6 

98 

iWS. 

CtaaiitiDybuktt(ApklSI.> 376 

Cbea|»fOiip,9a0i M6 

CJieeMiHidtoul,Sa8»*53i»..'. 330 

.toMlad.540 201 

>  bnttOTW  ditto. 541.*... • »• 

orpott6d,54B. Hi. 

(Ap.4ft) 371 

Iftinon,  ditto  (Ap^4i.)  373 
orange,  ditto  (Ap.  48:)  ib. 

alMond.  ditto  (Ap.  49.)   H>. 

Cbeirici,  dried  (Ap.»&)^ 387 

ChenrU  iMce,  9M. 331 

CaiiUvlDe8Ms40B* 873 

— ^w1iM|4Id ib. 

Cbtekeo.   Bee  Fowl. 

...  pie-(Ap.lft) 364 

■  ■    ■   ■    Md  hem  nuttiea  (Ap,2».)  368 
Cbope,  mtttton,  porKf  beef,  to  broil, 

m!?. :.V;.7...... 151 

•*^.^^toft7,8(k 148 

— —toet0W,40». 307 

ii^.-«.ielidiibi,4a3. 878 

8anoefor,356 856 

ein]lMMm,eMen^or,416 879 

■ tipctoio of^416*»».-. ....    ib. 

Glftrett  best  wine  for  esiiieeB,  itc. .. .    96 

ClBrifiedByrap,475 897 

Clsrtfy  brolb,  to,  8S2* 897 

<^oveandHMoe,eeBenoeof,414...k  976 


—  tinetureof,  415. ...    ib. 

CoekteoaiebaB,448 885 

God,  boiled,!^ 173 

—^tiietai^iinetted*  note  under  149  ib. 

gHceBbeUed,151 174 

Bkuttftewed,  156 177 

sh«ved>  and  scM  Ibr  whitioge, 

Obe.to]S3. 175 

Cbld  neat,  to  broil  wllb  poaebed 

C8Bi.487 304 

—*-dniO|  to  warm,  the  beet  wcjr...    54 

Aril 53 

■auce<bfv488.3SB,«nd307 

Ji87. 355. 343 

yeat,aneicel1entdiriiof,513..  319 

fvwi,  dittos  533 388 

Ocrtouiing  for  MNip  and  lauce,  388.  •  846 

•— a  ftemieot  eaueeof  adul^ 

teratioB,  398. 847 

Gommitteooftasto 17 

eon8onrai4>t899 893 

Goibe,tomalm... 340 

Cooks, fHeDdiyadrlce to..... 46 

MQtsto S3 

.>—— dittoj  when  they  iHKve  a  very 
'  large  diBBer. 68 


Oookii  MOM  of  Ihi  Maiei9  oCgood 

310 

SS 

— —  a  maooi  givett  la  om  bjr 

•WiUiamtheOowiiMrar. 98 

— -*<Obi.  eeaeening  their  health, 

note 96 

Cook-teaser,  wbve  not  to  pot  him   44 
Cookinc  anmiahi,  dine  only  ooee  a 

monm,  note. 17 

Cookery,  I>eseaiM*s  ubsm  attain 

on *...... HI 

^  Dr.  JohiHon*s  ditto 90 

'   ■'      theory  of,  note. ih. 

'  ■    '    importance  of 91 

"•  Dr.  Stark Tii. 

the  analeptic  part  of  physie    10 

Dr.  Mandeville ....viU. 

Arbnthnot ib^ 

■  '     Farmentier... a. 

■    ■       Bylrester's  Obs.  on,  note. .    90 

best  books  on,  note ib. 

theory  of  the  pioccases  of; 

flnm  tlie  EnoydopiMlia  Brit,  note  Ur. 
opinion  <rf  a  cook  on  books 

of. 38 

Cbqmis  M  agnne,  or  Master  Kitch- 
ener  i...    98 

CoolUs,  or  thielEened  gravy,  180....  199 

Cmpd*apr<« 94 

Crab»  toboll,  177. 188 

Crawfish  soap,  835. 811 

'  ^tlo,  powided  alive,  le- 

conmwDded  1^  Mona.  Clennont, 

835 ib. 

Cream,  clouted,  388.'. 987 

Cranberry  tort  (Ap.  37.) 370 

Croquante  of  paiie  (Ap.  81) 385 

Cottage  potato  piiddlng(Ap.  115.)...  390 

Crisp  parsley,  318 845 

Curram  jelly,  479* 806 

Corry  powder.  45S. 887 

sonp,8lO ^....t. 893 

saace,346. 854 

bafksm 866 

to  dress,  497 311 

Cnrasea,  bow  to  make,  474 896 

Custard  pudding 3f7 

Cider  cup,  465 894 

Culinary eurioeities.... 93 

Crane 34 

CurlewSi. ..•.........%•.•••.*. ...    fb. 

Catingely ib. 

Corks. « 106 

Cement  for  seaHng  bottlei ib. 

Caw-caw  bones,  rl.B.l..... 108 

Cow  heel,  to  dram,  18* 193 

Cress  sauce,  964. . .  ■ 831 

Tlnflfar,307* • 809 

Cucumber,  stewed,  139 165 

■     vinegar,  309..... 9?!0 

—to preserve (Ap.98L}....  360 

Carp,  to  stew,  158....... \ 177 

Chvny,tfaegreatest....«** 84 


.-\  . 


4i4 


(Ap.110.). 


% 


lltfi|99B. 

Ids  TnteMi •• 

ilbr. 

574. 

i(Ap.80.).. 
I  bow  tflMMNttnt* 


Pffpplni^  cljoUy,  83. 


Ota.  OB,  83. 


IS.  Mdroe  ud  Dr.  8tvk*o 


,t»nN4U61 

flNr,3«l. 

loliaah,S30 

■  coM,  to  wriD,  58S. 

~wlld,to  nMfll,74 

IKitehialad,Ota.to373. 

Dlnaer,  aeveo  chancci  againit  its 

bfliot  property  draaed,  note. 

hipia  fcr  prapartoff  ttlme,  p. 
68,83;  a  good  que  for  M.,  904.... 

—"— iBvilanoiita 

•-^  Imponanee  of  pttoctuallty,  tbo 
only  ace  wlikli  canooi  be  pott- 

pooed 

— ->  arraafemeoli  of  gueflta  at. . . . 

<— ^  nilM  for  betaavtour  at,  ttom 

the  AccQPpUebed  Lady*>  Oeligtit, 


33 
9SS 
354 
386 

19 

76 

146 

147 

no 

139 
SSI 
396 


144 
900 


190 
36 


37 
40 


-~-biBliibrpi6vtdiii| 38 

— —  Obs.onBecoiidcounMB,4bc...  ib. 
-»-  panMMBeot    for    not    being 

punetwlat 48 

Boileaa*0  Obi.  on ib. 

-— Utotttotboaewbodiaeottt..  44 


Edge  bone  of  beef,  see  H-bone,  8. 
wayi  of  tpdling. 


Edacatioii  of  a  eook's  tcmgue 

Seh,  Slewed,  WIggy's  way,  164. .. . 

plcUed.161 

Med/lis 

•— -pie(Ap.S9.) 

—  8pitcbQcked,166 

■  »■  soap,  935* ..«. 

Bggi,  to  preserve  for  twelve  montbs, 

seeN.B.toMT 

—  sa«ee,967 

-^  (Hed  with  ba€Oii|  545 

raio6t,545* 

witb  BiiQced  baoon,  549. .. .. . 

«— poaebed,  546. 

— —  clitto,  wltb  minoed  bam,  548.. . 

boiled  In  tbe  ibcHjM? 

«-.~  ditto,  for  a  salad,  379. 

«— •  various  ways  of  dressiiig  egg 

and  bam  patties  (Ap.  88.) 

ISpieteUM,  a  relish  for,  27 

Siabalotnace  904.. 

— .  ^Qq|ar,401 


113 
114 

59 
161 
180 
189 
306 
182 
907 

338 

933 
336 

337 
339 
837 
338 
ib. 


wine, 


SflSOtGieof  tuxt1e,|H3 


I^J 


386 
195 
839 
371 
ib. 
858 


,351 % 

wbarelobuyit,3Sl ib. 

ormtiritfooms,440.. 985 

ofoy8lera,441 i^ 

of  anehovy,  433 SO 

of  Cayenne,  405. 971 

lemon  peel,  407 lb. 

ditto.4aB. S74 

of  celery,  400..... 335 

ginger.lll ib. 

aIlsplDe,418. fb. 

dove,  414 816 

mace, 414.. ... •^ .....«.««    lb. 
dnnamon, 416.*» .... «*. . .   6b. 

mai)oram,417 STT? 

sweet  berlis,  417*..' ib. 

— — >  soup  berbsj^n ib. 

eschalot,  409 « 8Q 

.soup  berbs   and   savoury 

spice,  499. 977 

Epicure,  tbe  editor*!  definition  of. 
note 1^ 

'— -—  tbe  temperate  man  tlie 
greatest 19 

Emooroy,  tbe  first  rule  of  oomforl- 
ai>le,iioce. 61 

FawB,65. 140 

Fennel  and  butter  for  utmBtamL  965 .831 
Fish,  see  tbe  6lb  ctaapier  of  tlie 

Rudimenta  of  Cookery 86 

— —  ecddftosedrem S3 

ftoandity of, note. 86 

bow  to  marlcet  for 358 

t08tew,158 177 

sottps,83S. 90r 

-~  forcemeat,  383. 886 

^.- saoee,  485^ 378 

10  pickle,  161 180 

Forceooeat,  to  make,  373. 

■  materials  used  for 

for  veal,  375. 

"  '  1^  tnriceyt377 

—  for  goose,378 ib. 

forliare,379 ib. 

—  balta,  for  mock  turtle  and 
made  dishes,  380 ib. 

eggditto,381 966 

—  curry  ditto,  388 ib. 

■      — ie9t,4Ke.386 ib 

— — — -  of  fish  for  maigie  dislns, 

383 ^ fl^ 

1-  to  bdx  orange  and  lemon 

peel,387. Ib. 

Flip,  466 994 

Flounders,  155 17& 

Fowls,  to  boil  one  lialf  amfhMst  tbe 

otber  at  tbe  same  time 3^ 

toboil,.16. 119^ 

toToast,5B 136. 

tobroil,il7 154. 

— -^h&8bed,533 396 

pulled,534 lb. 

-~-— todj«mcold,535-..i^........  390^ 


nipsx. 


425 


Fowls,  Apieliu*Bsaace  fiar 

Freneli  beans,  133 

-pickled  (Ap.lia). 


164 
408 


tart  of  prawnreil  fruit  (Ap. 

3S*) « 370 

— -  biead  ud  roUe  (Ap.  100*).. .  300 

Prolli  ront  meat,  to 78 

Fraggee.  fried. 34 

Fare,  bill  of,  for  a  week 56 

Frying 80 

Flavour,  agents  anptaved  to  soups 

and  sauMB,  DoK  under.  •*  • 104 

noonderMned  or  boiled,  155. 175 

Fritters,  558 344 

Fruit,  to  preserve,  without  sugar 

(Ap.Sl.)'...^ 300 


Game,  lo  render  Immediately,  ripe 

for  roasting 

■  soup,  348.* .« . » 

Garlic  vinegar,  4jQ0 

sauce,  873....  • 

———gravy,  311 *.. 

GiUdts,  stewed,  531. 
soQp,S44. 


58 
216 
S70 
833 
344 


Pte 


i^ 


)' 


Gherkins  (ApTl] 

Gigot  de  Sept  HeoF  s,  N.  B.  to  L . . . 

Ginger,  essence  of,  411 


—  neeerved  (A  p.  87.) . 
igeroroad  nuts  ( Ap.  76.) . 


GiuL 

Ckwee,  Dr.  Stark  says  'is  the  most 

nutritive  food 

—  10  roast,  SO 

ditto,  aUve. 

■      to  persuade  one  to  roast  him- 

self!! 

— — ^  liow  the  liver  is  fattened  for 

the  Strasburg  pies.    In  note  to  90 
toliaah. 


816 
363 
408 
106 
875 
380 


OoUt.* 


138 
137 


lb. 
137 


>moek,51 

bonne  bonche  for,  Ml. 
relish  for,  341. 


Gourds,  various  ways  of  dressing. . 

GonaMAJiD  defined,  note 

GourmandiaiB,  to   guard   agidast, 

note. 

Gooseberry  sauce,  383 

Geayt,  read  the  8tb  chapter  of  the 

BadimeDlsof  CooiMry 

-— <—  for  poultry,  ragoAts,  dec.. 


•onion,  880 

•gariic,3U 

game,  337. 

for  wild  duck,  338.... 

foastcdPMBat,  336.. ».«..»».» 

■—■"boiled,  387.  •••»•• •• 

-—-wow  wow  tor  salted  or 
slewed  beef.  388.  «>•*•  •..••.•..■• 
—for  grills  SAd  broils,  dec.,  355 

Torelwpsaad  steaks,  356... 


136 

131 
851 

ib. 
346 

17 

34 

831 

100 

840 
841 
344 

351 

ib. 

348 


840 
854 
SSS 

878 


Gravy,  for  cold  meat  or  ponltiy,  dec., 

350. , 

■    hashes  of  mutton,  Ifcc.,  360.. 

——ditto,  veal,  361 

^—  for  veniron,  of  wine,  344. . .. . 

—  of  vinegar,  345 

for  ▼enfaon,  of  cuiant  Jelly, 

— ^offlsntlon,  347 

■        brown  colouring  for^  388. . . . 

pDruble,3S3. 

— ^— soup,aOOt 

'•'  vegetable,  ditto,  89|..«« 

Green  pease,  134 

"  soup,  816. 

majgre,  ditto,  317...: 

Green  fsges,  preserved  |&  syrup 

GriU  sauce,* 355V..' *.*.*.! r.V.t! ! '.r. '. *. 

Grouse,  73 

Gr^el.    water,    various   wsys    of 
macinc  and 'flavouring,  578h.*». 

Guinea  fowl,  60* 

GlasBO,  llrs.,  her  cookery 

Gridiron. 


855 
856 
357 
353 
ib. 

ib. 

ib. 

848 


196 
807^ 
164 
303 
ib. 

388 
854 
144 

398 

143 

80 


157*. 


Haddock,  157 

-^—  Findborn,  ditto,  <« 
Haggii,  a  good  Scotch,  488* 

BaB^  to  boil,  14. 

—— to  pot,  500..  ................ . 

slices  of  broiled,  586 

essence  of,  351 

— ^whw»  to  buy,  ditto,  351 

Hare,  roast,66« «..»»».««......»«». 

Jugged,  580*.  ..I 

—soup,  341 

mock,  66* 

'bashed,  588 

pie(Ap.ll.) 

Haricot  of  mutton.  Iambi  veal,  or 

beef,  480. 

of  beef,  405 

Hashes,  mutton,  484 .«... 

^— to  warm  up,  485 

—*— beef,  486 : 

veal,  511 

—  vailson,508; 

■  cold  calfs  head,  518.. 

—  calfs  beadorrag(iOt,SaO... 
hare,  500 • 

—  duck  or  goose,  530 

poultry,  game,  or  rabbit,  JB33 

—  sauce  for,  300 

Haunch  (see  H.)  bone  of  beef,  8. .. . 
HertM,  when,  and  how  to  dry,  461. . 

Herringi,  pidded,  171 

broi]ed,171* 

—  red  ditto,  178l 

Hocseradish  powder,  458*. 

vinegar,  300*. 


176 
ib. 
305 
118 
318 
384 
354 
ib. 
140 


315 
141 
385 


306 

310 
303 
304 
ib. 
318 


331 

114 
381 


856 

113 


185 

ib. 

186 


Hoosekeeplag,  Pten  of. 


870 
37 
IbL 


U6 


'iBlLaiiA.lQtamt.. 


Srii 


vpin  ft 


UmivfMi 


te.(An.n.)...  an 

{ApM} 384 

SB 

tu^um ik 

te. » 

iByttntoM^  teow  w  Mad. 41 

"        "^  *''(AiL*iiBL)V.  4M 

tiiiraftdlo 64 

•eOto.toSa 9» 

(Ap.4e.>.~ 174 


(ApwTO,)..... 
p,lln.FMItt|«^4tt... 
-^  dICIOk  Ml.  MoniffN^  4SB.  . 


••fty, 


ik 

ao7 


•*•»•••«>«••«< 


w 

141 

cidpi  (Aa.94») M*...^  90 

qrni|k,aBl...^ 907 


— «.  juice,  wtiteiBU  407* .. 
Lemoa  and  liver  fM<^  K7>« 
— -^^  peel  cwiMMiCi  4ff7 


.,374 

..an 


S^) 


Mly,OK  Iwolt  IflBl 


4ro». 


177 

74 

197 


wAfltfw  Ccvtti, 


IvmoH't  totady  and 


U7..., 


*c»Qhi.lo9i. Ma 

MmAf9  ««oe  fcr  oilf  baad  or  ww 
1mi,3U* 

i*— dtniv  ftr  MMe  ^ifiMiiat, 

Ml*. ik 

Kld,IOfMlik«* J40 

]UdiiQP«,toMl,95 1» 

]LitBtm(mld,<)iiiiiM»of  a 8i^ 

%Mbm  Oie  ptftcc,  Imt  onamflata 

fcr....... *. 64 

clifaiMwy  iiwtttt  be  mmfii 

eilea**** ..«».•.•••••••••..•  54 

->*— ateiMUi 8& 

Kileliioer,  Dr.,  quoted,  iiol«inS*»  90 

Lm,  Tva  AXT  or  nnnaamikTiira 

AIC9  ntOIiOMOIMO >«  ViL 

^^ickbrotbof. 3S 

dtaosaace. • lb. 


t«mbitobcQU,3. 

terpttit,40. 

...-.- abam  lamb,  dilto,  40. ib. 

biadquaneB,4l ..,«  lb. 

■      |breq«arter,4B. ^^^  lao 

-r — k!«,«..." .-;.,...  ib. 

•— ^- ibotOdei,  44. ib. 

tofDoairy,dillD,BDlelo5l..  131 
riba,45 m 


iiiMiilMKBcedilto^4fl6. 97* 

dnctuie ditto, 406*..... ib. 

Lemoiu|dBinaiiiiniite,477 897 

LiquaiaaioftteBoaiaaa. S 

X4fiM(rs,47L 9W 

Iia(er,Mxa.,k«of  beefaoap.    See 

aliinof  beef  aottjp. 
UverofAgooae.   See  note  under  5Q  137 

>— —  BiMtpaadeyaBiice,9B7 337 

dlltt>focitab»Sa». SB 

loraaatvSS 146 

toiwJi^m 167 

aBiMe»S84. • 836 

aoumS37..« %...  8U 

potted,  178».i m 

patUeaCAp-S?.)..... 

'  aaiaffl^  378.* .........  •,»»  ■ . 

fjpawQ,  tp  preaarrer  N3. 


te9B4. 


BlaGaiOBi,543. 

aiwp,aeeOhB.toMk«»"  196 

Meckavei,  boiled,  167. •*»•••  183 

broUed,.160 164 

baKedilTQ *..•   ilk 

piclcled,m 1S5 

— —  roeaauoe,686. 831 

Made  diahes,  Obe.  ob.     See  8iii 


cbiqiierot'BudlmeDlaof  Cooken  106 
erowaafcai  ditto,  48%  306 

Masaiine  of  Taate. 802 

Maigre  forceoieatT  383. 


plum  pudttaOi  554.«. 
Or.,  qttoa 


MandeviHe,  Dr.,  quoted,  Praibce. . .  viii. 
Mauwra,  tbe  impoitaocd  of  good. .    4S 

Maijoram,  eaaeace  o^  417. 337 

Marrow  bones,  544 396 

Meati  aoup  fh>ni  any,  bidied. 63 

IMteiroe,  Mn.ilier  Eeonom.  Cookeiy» 

quoted,  Dote  to  63.... 147 

Mdted  butter... SSB 

Minced  coOopa. 306 

Miace  pies  (Ap. 38.) 371 

>meat  (m.36») ..•«•..  3X2 

:::::;:::;:::::::  S 

9<7 *^8I9 


Miataauce^ 

viDevar, 

MocJEturuei 


turtle  aoin^9C7 *a^» 

ditto,4o.  I^X  Listen  MS.  ..T^lfi. 


r:2^. 


427 


MBteftiilto(A».4i.). 
llborgUM,78 

llLOfti.01 


Horehs  out.  on. 
Mulled  wipft,  aroM He, 

41S. 

Mnaind,  to  makoi  sn^w. 

to  make  m«  Miaou,  36B.. 

■  ■       ^    ditto,  to  Icosfif 40T«*^«**»> 

("^  seed  oU.  •  .....,; 


M4 

995 


>  •  0  •  ••  •  • 


centnry. 


food  ^fceia  of  food.  .<.. . 
iMd  oibetii  of  bad 


ib. 

an 

4M 


48 
43 

U 


MoaeiiveB,  ikuB 

Heat,  bow  long  It  moat  bang  to  be 

tender. 87 

— — iffteaeo. lb. 

«—  kUttag  k  byeieetrteiQr  maftM  it 

lender  Inuaeuaiely..  •••>••••••••    flB 

MarkedH- M 

beetialelbr. ib. 

"  ■  ■  '         ditto. 96 

lCAitKBViif«TA»M8,foraieaL....  3S5 

'  I       'poaltry «....«  SW 

M  vegetablea...  380 

Meatehreea 77 

lfaatealKi,aN« 3M 

Mattoa,  tebeU  a  Ice  1« IW 

""^^■^■■■■*aocB,  3i«  •!•  ••••••••■••••»•  •  JHar 

llvttOB,fl& 194 

roaat,al<»,94 19S 

ditto,  8adSe,i» ib. 

8heaUei>,97. lb. 

lOHl,  So.  .••••••••••••••••■••  vb* 

iieek,S» i9fr 

bfcaet,  3(K*  •••••.'•.  ••«>••••  ib. 

luumeh,31 ik 

dittO|veiii8eaflbabkm,3i....   ib. 

or  Wal  pie  (An.  10.) 3tt 

ebep8,0£....T..... ISa 

ditto,  stewed,  40a 307 

bratbil04.564. iMwSSO 

moek,10lK 107 


OnioiiaHice,«liita,9n.« «.« SB 

■  ■  ■■■  hMwh»»OL Ml 

-"— p*aaaBaiid,aoa.... ib. 

Oianfe>dl^(A|i.47.} 333 

fia8ffbmM|(Ap.79.) 38B 

0«sat  (A|k81.) 383 

Oxebeek,ste«nd»507. 317 

portable  soup  of;  8» 8M 

Oz  taito,  slewed,  MB^ SIS 

Qs.  bead  soup.  tao. S13 

QKtattsoim,^ »..  jn4 

OzbselJel^tlOB. ....107 


teha8b,484 

barie0t,48O 

■MitatB-ta  wny  seupi  ML 


ditto,  bsowB,  300. 


eztempoieij 
no.  430 


ns 


do 

ib. 


Blarrow  boMi,  544 
vefetaMe 


ealohup^' 
qtriatesseace  of,  440.. 


(Ap.iaiL). 


NMnwg,  tinotnio  of,  413*. 
— — —  grater,  tlie  best.. 


330 

848 
301 

0E78 
OS 


OowletteskOia* 

Onion,  Obs.  OB,  note; ..  • 
piekled(Ap.l91) 

I,  m. 


'faaoeittV, 


■oop,040* 814 

bow  to  fbed  and 
tbeir  Uvos,  and  Imw  to  ti< 


Qyaleri;  bow  to  feed  and  nresenre 
m  and  Imw  to  ti«ue  tlieni 
todea<b,l81 180 


oertaiiihr  not  so  nu&itive 
as  supposed,  ICB.  to  18L 190 


native,  ttaoae  that  are  bora 
la  tl»  Buraham  rivei% 


«MM^ 


aodbied 
BototolOL 

essence  0^441 

soaUoped^iaO..... 191 

stewed.l88*.» 108 

flned,183. ib. 

— — sauee,S78. 834 

'  "■  preserved  in  powder,  800..  831 

patties  (Api  80.). 300 

Osborne,  H.GkMk  to  air  J.  Banks   zi.58 

■  dittos  Ma  reesipta  Oar  pudb- 

dii«s,^6!^ 34& 

OatmaaL  a   aihstitiua  fiir  biead 
enuttbsiooto. $8 


400 

MO 

940 

ib. 


344 


s. 
ib. 


PaiegQKieeUzic,530.... 

Pharmaroperia,  Appendix  to. . . 
Paimenties.  quoted,  Preftco. . . 

Pauley  and  butter,  881 

tppeeserva,NJI.toa|l 831 

*iUed,317. 915 

-^«irisp,318 ^...  846. 

Partridgss^ 143 

sonp,a41 1U5 

Paste  ibr  eroquanta,  or  cut  pasuy 

(Ap.a) 301 

— »-  fiv  meat  or  savoniy  piee  (Ap.  8.)  360 

Ibr  boiled  pHddtawi(Ap.  6.)...  361 

fi)rstrbigiiMrtartlet8,dBC.(Apw7.)  ib. 

Pease,  to  toil,  134... IM 

podding,  595 343 

bow  to  asake  fo;  balf 

tbe usual  expense,  nota  to 596....   lb. 

•—.^^  soups,  8I&  880 803.805 

•>« —  ditto,  in  Ave  mtajaMi,  Obs.  to 

555. 343 

—scarry  pease  soap^  noto  to  810  805 

eelery  ditto,  dine,  818 804 

"  ■    ■  plain  pease  soim,  881 

parsBft8,i88rrrr. 

PeristaiUd 


103 


Peptfe  Precepts,  ouoied Ik 

Pease  powder,  49BL 800 

FDrch,Med,l5e. «...  170 


4M 


.unmca 


% 


1! 

177 
1« 

moek  ditto. «». 143 

cfilariooor  Its  Iwliif  **«M« 


1 


MftifUkV  OlM.oiiflB 143 

PlCKUti  Olit.on.«** ..•••*  3W 

....    Ik 
fbr, 

3B8|  309 
....  14S 

«>  broil,  W. IM 

or  lark  pie  (Ap.  13.) 363 

mckliig,  06*«*.>. 133 

Pia|oaie  TtMnrTiS 9B7 

W  iMMiod  cake  (Ap.  97.) 377 

Plum  puddiBf,  SS3 341 

Plum  pudding  naceiaoa. 832 

Plum  pouad  cake  (Ap.  58.) 377 

Foaclmlcw^Me 337 

INmm- aau*s  Baiwe.  310 S43 

Poor,  nap  for,  tW. 308 

Papia,  Dr.,  iiia  Dkorter,  note 9S3 

Poik,  Um  soaooa  lor  H,  and  tbe  ac- 

coiwpaiBtmnntii.  dec,  40 

^^■^  to  foaai  a  lag,  90. ........ .« 

«—tuMI  ditto,  11 

wttboaltlie«klDoii,Sl  131 

9006,51.... ib. 

>  10  lamblfr  tlM  kg  of  a  porkUnf , 

itoM ib. 

WHtkbum. 138 

•-— qiaiarib,  SS ib. 

bliifM ib. 

»-ckliM,» 133 

— — lamk,6 lis 

—  toboli,piokled,U 116 

-——  how  to  scora  after  you  liave 

boiJedlt,ll ib. 

— —  eliope,loft7,fl8 150 

Huiaaiea,87 148 

Polvrade  lanee,  36S 850 

Portable Boop, 998^.... <: i-  983 

Potto^beetiktrorfl7tag,Oba.to83  147 

I    nqaor 54 

-*—— to  convert  faito  peaae  aoopia 

flTeminiittt,N.B.to5S5. 343 

Poiatoei,16wayiafdieBrinf,l()8..  155 
toi«dreMCOki,108^ 156 

—  boiled  and  broiled,  103....    ib. 
fried  in  eiteea,  104 ib. 

fried  whole,105 lOT 

maabed,  106. ib. 

— r ditto,  witboiion,  107.....   ib. 

eaoiloped,  166 ib, 

—— roasted,  100 158 

under  meat,  110.. ib. 

baimil ib. 

>    Mvoiiiy,  118 • ib. 

niow,114.... ib. 

8*PVPi«»H* 

new,116. f...«.. 


Futttoaa,  mmiliieor  Maicb,  418. 

floor 

ecricannoB,  108*. 


Pottad  beef,  veal,  game,  kc^SOS. .. 
▼eal,  game,  lU.,  why  in 


lyl  tlie  eame  time  aa  nmck 

turde,  note  under  9f7 

Patted  bam,  dco.,  500 

PfmwnB,175. 

Poultry,  to  rendte  immediately  ripe 

forroaatiog 

■■     mai%etiBg  taMa  for. 

Podding,  my,  554. 

plum,  553 

•~-—^- ditto,  do.  aanee  for,9BB.... 

suet,  551 

Yorlubire,5S8 

#baeo,555. 

macaroni,  543 • 

batter..... 

■  bread  and  butter,  billed  and 

baked,5!S7. 

——>— Boston  ap|^.... ••• 

spring  fiiut.. 


—  Nottingham. 
'— Newmarket...  o..^ 

—  Newcastle  or  cabinet,  i.. ..... 

■>  VermioeHi.....* <^, 

—  bread 

—  custard 

—  boUed  ditto 


coUete  (AD.10S.) 

rice,  oalcfia  or  baled 

ground. 

save-all  (Ap.  Wk) 

Puddinpand  pleB,ObB.OB 

Pudding  catcbup,  446 » 

Puff  paste  (Ap.  1.) 

PiUled  turkey,  oblcken,  Ibc,  534.. . . 

Puncb,  direct^,  478 

of,  to  make,  C9 


Ib. 
157 
314 


819 
318 

187 

58 

357 
341 
ib. 
238 
340 
341 
343 
338 
346 

344 
315 

ib. 

ib. 
346 

ib. 

ib. 

ib. 
3fZ 

ib. 
395 

ib. 

ib. 


360 


« 


Porser  Bouvent  lea  Cuiaialen  (do  la 

nicessit^) 

Pig*B  pettitoes,  IS...,. 

PolltenesB,  ancient  rides  Ibr,  note. . . 

PorpUB. 

Pie,  JeSBexy  Hudson  served  unia  one 
Provirions,  bow  to  procure  the  beat. 

Pepper,  Oba.  on. 

double  beaded  boxes 

Qoeen's  drops  (Ap.6e.) 

(join's  sauee,485. 

ditto,  Oba.  on  Ann  Chovy^ 

marriage, in  note  to 433. 


Rabbit,  roast,  07 143 

— -»botl^l7. 181 

broiled,  97.... ..  i.  *  ....••••*  154 

sonp,S41 915 

— i pie(Ap.l70i ^••385 

aWelch^SSO. ,*jrt»,  336 

RBgo6t  beef,  see  Obs.  to  493i'^»«  909 


ib. 


117 
S9 

94 

357. 
93 
65 

318 


1 


% 


I 


4Sd 


iUfofttauc«,aaft M» 

■RVoai7powder,457... 9BB 

quiiitaf  nte of  dHtot460» » »  S90 
•  ofpoiiftty|tddic«,530*....  dStt 

braaatofveidjSn 319 

raised  ples(Ap.5.). Ml 

■  French  ptea  (An.  IB.) 38S 

-^ bam  pie  (Ap.  19.) ib. 

Elk  pie  (Ap. 81.) ^.  366 
nbple(Ap.S3.)...i ib. 

Raspberry  vinegar,  3B0. SMW 

wine  or  brandy,  409 995 

— : Jam(Ap.9B.) 387 

Red  cabbafe.  pickled  (Ap.  190.) ....  403 
Rhubarb,  varioiu  ways  of  drciwing  347 

Rice  blancmaiHe  (Apw  109.) 396 

podding  (Ap.  106.) 395 

ground  padding  (Ap.  1074 ib. 

8auce,aSl* 246 

8nowball8(Ap.l06.) 306 

Ripe  fruit  tarts  (Ap.  3a) 360 

RoASToie,  see  the  9d  chapter  of 

Rudiments  of  Cookery 74 

Robert  sauce  for  pork  and  geese, 

342. .V..:. 232 

Roe  bpat  ditto,  see  Obs.  to  348. ib. 

Rbuge,  see  note  to  433 ffil 

Rous, see  Obs.  to 257.... Wi 

Rump  steak,  broiled,  94 151 

: stewed,  500 311 

■         do.  Willi  onion  gravy, 

501.... 312 

»  ■  ■  pie  (Ap.  15.) 364 

Romans  atf  five  meals  a  day 34 

■  their  favourite  'dishes 35 

"  llqiAunen  and  ganim ib. 

Sack  posset,  Sir  F.  She^rd's,  467*  296 

Sage  and  onion  sauce,  300 241 

Sally  Lunn  tea  cakes  ( Ap.  101^ ....  390 

Salt,  to  prepare  for  table,  371 260 

Salt  fish,  150 ^m 

Baltingmeat,6 HI 

-——to  make  it  red,  6 ib. 

«— to  make  it  savoury,  6 112 

«—— to  pickle  meat ib. 

Sandwiches,  S04 316 

Save-all  puddhig  (Ap.  110.) 396 

Scotch  haggis,  488* 305 

collops,517 321 

ditto,  minced... 306 

gravy,  see  Obs.  to  336. 248 

-. brose,205* 901 

barley  broth,  204 199 

«■    '     beef,  note. 123 

soups,  905 200 

••———winter hotchpotch, 905....  ibi. 
■  ■        leek  soup,  or  cocky  leciky, 

905 201 

——lamb stew, 205 ib. 

Sjalads,  Evelya*s  directions  about, 

138and392. 166.260 

Dutch,  French,  Italian,  &c., 

Obato373 261 


Salad  sttwe.  379  and  4SI 9&fkwB 

Salmon,  plekled,  Un Ifli 

bQiled.109 lb. 

braUed,lfl3 I8l 

Saucs,  before  yoa  make,  read  th« 
8th  chapter  of  the  Ruoimenta  of 

Cookery 100 

anchovy,  970. SSI 

apple,  304. 94S 

•  baaU  vinegar  or  whie,  397. .  iH9 
—ballu  for  mock  tuitle)  880....  965 

bechamel,364. 857 

bottled  oyster,  978 834 

^beef   gravy,    fbr    poultry, 

o^ .,,.,........•.  940 

bonne  bouche  fiur  a  goose, 

341 251 

bread,3Bl Stf 

^—— browning,  382 ib. 

batter,  melted,  256 228 

burnt,  ditto,  960. 930 

clarified,  ditto.  259 lb. 

oiled,  ditto,  960* ib. 

to  recover,  N.B.  to  256. 880 

catchup  of  mushrooms,  439  283 

of  walnuts,  43a 282 

^f  codklesJfcc,  442...« 985 

for  puddinp,  446 *.  ib. 

vamp  vinegar,  403 271 

caper,274 933 

celery,  289. 838 

ditto,  brown,  290. ib. 

chervil.264.t 931 

Chili  vinegar,  405 873 

crisp  parsley,  318 945 

—- cucumber,  135. 165 

curry,34Bi 254 

— -eggtSiV \...  232 

essence  of  turtle,  343* 958 

ofham.351 254 

» of  mushrooms,  440. .  285 

— — — p  of  oysterB,  441 ib. 

of  Cayenne,  405.....  973 

of  anchovy,  433 980 

of  lemon  pieel,  407. . .  974 

qnlntessoice  of  ditto,  408. .    ib. 

m         essence    of    celery, 

400 975 

of  ginger,  411 ib. 

of  allspice,  418 ib. 

grs  {«« «» 

— —  of  cinnamon,  416.. . .    ib. 
—  ■  of  soup  herbs,  ^0.. .  877 

of  soup  herb  and  sa- 

Tonry  spice,  438 ib. 

— —  of  eaehitot,  403 971 

■  .  of  punch,  479 996 

eschalot,  204 830 

-— »-  ditto,  vinegar,  401 971 

flmnel  and  butter  fte  macke- 
rel, &c,26^ > 

fi?h,425 « 

forcemeat,  to  make,  373. .... 


430 


ftrfwIiSn 


ssr. 


fcr  pMlnTi  modMi 


IS?: 

'ditto  Ibf 
dIttotewM 


an. 


ditto  of  inttCf  Sll 

ditto  IIVIBMtod 


SSI 

ill. 

Ml 

M4 


'  ditto  ftr  boilod  tUtUjk  31 


ftreoiineoi  or  poiduy,  390  Mi. 
of 


'ftv ditto oC  v6tlt3R< 
fellt^iircliOptiiZS.. 


;-6' 


•nd 


^0|ini7,311 S44 

dUlo  Tiociaf,  400. 990 

M.  Keiiy%,  ftir  cairg  knd  or 

tal,Sll* 9M 

dSi  dillo,^to|jijte,Ml*..   ft. 

taaiop,  tmp  dif  aOI. 907 

ImaiiMto  a  mltoite,  477.  >  .nj^ 

leBaB,l0S..  ••....  •4* 933 

ditto,  oad  liver,  or  pu^ 

nver MUioe, 9B7 •••..  937 

livor,  ft>rflih,90B 9SB 

lobtter,9M 830 

to  lolMMr,  9K^ 937 

mMteral to^iSOO.. .. .V..'.. .  931 

DMntoiatjSn 912 

vilwpM'^  jWjL ..«»•«« . »»,<w »> »  970 
nwMBiooini  905^  ••••«••••••  9® 

dUtoi  liwfnii  800.  ».•  •  •  ..«■ 
diito»  in  Itvo  Bimin,  307 
BUMMud,  to  make,  370. . - 

ditto,Jhiaiiiiiiiite,30B. ib. 

ditto,  to  lwep,«y. 978 

l»<<tied,  Wto,  91l»*  .^  •  •«#  ■«■  ttflb. 

OBIODf  SPf ...4. a« «..•*■..••  Wv 

ditto,  n^tte,  Ibr  laMiMi,  fto. 

.•* ....« 111. 

yovMoDfoiif^DO ib. 

ttMuat  brown  ontoa,  990. .  911 
ngeVBd  oakm,  900  .....#.. . 

ox  heel  Jelly,  io»...« 

paMev  and  tetter,  4k ..... . 


ipMMBtf  41 


t**m»9*  ••• 


piompuddiiy,9A. 

poi  vrade,  305.  ..•••*•.»«.■•. 

poor  man*a,mK 

potato  iiMieila|e,  446' ••»%.. . 
rafodt  Mmoe,  W. ........  i . 

nnndt  powder,  457. . .  •  .^ . . ; 

floe,3ai» M$ 

■■lad nlxtitie, 379. .•....—  .  SHU 

■i!ad,45S» 987 

•nperiatlve,  489 9fm 

box, 408 ...••...•••50.  808 

Snof  Utouiti  (Ap.00.) 300 

8BVOfi,190 100 

aavoufyntt  beef.  490 3^ 

Savoury  pies,  paiUes,4^<Ap.  IS.).  303 
Soup  Herb  powder,  or  rcfctaMo  re- 

liBb,4flO ..*••  9B0 

£Hii1mpfl;  pottie417S. •»• 187 

Shrimp  rauec^nS 

Slinib^4?9 

Baaatpvib  of  prcwancd  ftoit,  < Ap. 

«9H»..r...^ 370 

-^i,T7...r. , 144 

water,  Obe.  00,  noto 38 

laa«ce,901 838 

8poageMwaiti,(Ap.00.)«v 370 

100 

139 

87» 

Sbdp  iieib  and  aavoary  powder,  400  810 

8pirit,490,4Sl,»  — 


BproBta.191 

Spareiibof  bncoManiest,!! 

Spices,  OtMLon,  4S9.....  .^.  ..•«•.. 


9TT 
lOO 

notetolflB^ 103 

iBcbodvoofetolOS.........  194 


SSSTSf 
'  mttOf  ineii. 


817.  •.•<.•«•.•.•» 


SpionamjitfS. 
StoekTon^no 

iBGoa 

Stuffing,  373. 

forhare,37» 905 

forgDose,378 ib 

for  tarinn^  377 ib 

lbrveBl,3r4 904 

Suet  pnddins,  3S1 340 

Synip, duliled, 475 907 

>»— -oftonionMel,393. 90B 

ofleino&,391 907 

ofofan|e,39S >  908 

an  EngUshman'e  cooUiif 
iEetde,Dr.IIiulier*sObe.oii;  Wa- 

tetlioiifle'e  dfUo,  note IS 

-^^  the  mactilnenr  of  life 19 

—  Dr.Cbe5rh^8  0bfl.0D;  MMW- 

nethy'gditto 90 

~     tinetare,S69 358 

Jes  to  Gourmands,  note. ...    93 
iOiftttit,  various  wa]^  of drenlng  347 

lts,tobrofl,  170*.. I8S 

^tapiekle,171 105 

stew,  170** ^   ib. 


-■•— 'to  fliy,  173 187 


domm9,R&9.  Win.  VVatkins' excel- 


•    ' 


«u 


BMnt  oi; «.«; 

MmAhrmMoBto 
ulBtfor 


ftf» 


^vnip-topi,  laft' 


Skate,  148... 

QoupB,  under  llw  ninwoftteutlcle 

tbejr  IM  oMde  of. 
Soup,  Ota.  on. •* 

^ Md  toailli,S» < 

g»Mta,85,»4 i....MB. 

Stew|MD • 

Suet,  to  elaiMy  ttor  fryt&s,  &G.  M. . . 

—     -■  puddiaBk. » «■» ••••••... 

8aimges,to  f^87 

Sweetbread,  10  fry,  8B 

do.  plain,-® 

Sweet,  or  short  and  crisp  tart  paste 

0n  kaiO)  t94*.I.*  .".1! !  I  !.'!*.*. !.'!!!!.'.' 

Soles,  to  boU,  144 

lo*y,M5 

to    stevit    140,     1$8,     164 

171.  m. 

fiUeted,  147 

Skate,  Med,  154 

StuifeoD,  1S3 

Tartpsste(Ap  3.) 

Tartlets  (Ap  34.)..>. 

Taste,  tlie  ComBilttee  o^  Preface. . . 
— — —  the  Magazine  of,  408. . .  .63. 

varieties  of. 


34 

178 


91 
91S 
151 

80 
147 
393 
148 
149 


Tastes,  six  simpio,  note. 
Tamis,  note  to,  180. . . . . 

Tankaid,  eool,  4M 

Tarragon  sauce,  964. . . . 
▼inagar,  396. . 


MS 

169 
Hi. 

181 

171 

175 

174 

360 

370 

xi. 

S93 

51 

53 

105 

S94 

213 


Tea,  to  make.  550. 
Tender,  to  make  meM. .. . 

Tewahdiddle,  467 

ThkAeaing,  or  rouz,  SOT. 
ditto.' 


339 


.  % .  •  •  * 


Toast  and  water,  463.. . . . 

-——and  cheese,  539. 

Toasted  cheese,  540 .• 

Tomato  sauce,  SOS 

—— mock  ditto,  S93. 

Tongue  to  boil,  15 

'■  what  die  toots  are  good  fiw, 

Ob8.tol5 

Toothache,  cure  fbr,  567 

Tripe,  18 

TMSe(Ap.40.) 

Tnillies,  Obs.  on 

Tnrbot,  to  boil,  140 

Turkey,  to  boil,  16 

—  to  fhttea  and  whiten,  16.. .. . 

57 

hash,  ftc.  533 

pulled,  534 


98 


331 


ib. 

lb. 
351 
ISl 
374 

M 
167 
110 


7taniips,130. 

-.-— ~  to  mash,  131. 


ib. 
163 
164 


Tttrtle,  to  dieM,9B0«  •••••«**•.. 

mo«kditto»8<r,fte......i..  819 

— -  Biieh  sditto,  eweBwKnoiBto 

817 • Sh. 

BioekBaock,dlt«»,*9l5. SIS 

"—English,  948 »...., 

343* ih. 

Untsio  tantenaiMB,  Obs.  to 


-^— 9500  poundi  oi; 

dinner,  note  to  9f0L « 

Twelfth  cake  < Ap.  5S.). . . . . 


at  one 


878 


Tauzhan  neotac,  to  imiiaie,  480.. 

Veal,  to  boil,  4 

toroag,33 

fiUet,!!. : 

loin,  35. « • 

« — shooldw,S8 

sweetbread,  38.. .-. 

cutlet,  90......... 

ditto,  sauce  for,  90 

ditto,  AUl  dressed,  SSI 

broth,  191 

•^—  gravy,  198. 


168 
197 
Ik. 


— — knucHe  soup,  193 

"'—  stuffing,  B<^r  Fowler's,  374. . 

— -  forcemeat,  ^8.»v  • 

breast,  Btewed«5I5 

minced,  511* 

bashed.  511..... 

sauce  n>r,361 

excellent  hot  ragoAt  of  eold 

▼eal,  519. .* 

potted,  503 

breast  niioat,517.. 

—  ditto,  with  pease,  note  to  S|7. . 

olives,  51& ». 

jutlets,  broiled,  SBl 

knuckle,  to  raipgAt,  589 

Witlfrice,S83. 

Gay's  receipt,  ditto, 

analiampaitles(Ap.98.) 

pie(Ap.9il) 

Vegetables,  Obs.  on.    See  the  5th 


ib. 

m 
n8 

ib. 
3S8 
195 

ib. 
196 


ib. 
319 
31ff 

ib. 
9S7 

818 
314 

319 


SI 


ib. 

lb. 

308 


cliapter   of  the  Rudiments  of 
Cookery. 
Vegetable 

marrow, 


88 

to  extract,  417.*  817 
348 


maritetiag  tables  Ifar. 


Venison,^  roast  a  kanneh, «» 

neckorshonMer,  84. 

tohaan{S88 

■  to  vensonil^r  mutton,  3S. . . 

the  Devil's. 

■  wine  sauce  for,  344 

' sharp  ditto  for,  345 

»»     ■       sweet  ditto,  346 

■  ■    '  ■— ••  Qiutton  gravy, 347. ...... . 


138 
140 


188 
83 


ib. 
tb. 
ib. 


432* 


Viaigtr 


•  ••.»••     10.' 


••.  iW^ 


liquaiMte,  453 
for8tlaidB,3» 

tana|0B,9B6. lb. 

fMpbmy,  390.  «.*..• 967 

■w«N  tad  UToaryheita, 

^VOUfctoaW 909 

fflMltMHMt398««*  ••••••  ••  tp^ 

pyrollgBeoiM,  (Mm.  on  3B7*  901 


Vol«av«at(Ap.SS.) 


Wtliinte,topldae(Aii.ll6.>. 401 

WtimmciiSni43S 9W 

W«targnifll,tninediatflly,57S $11$ 

■  ■  *'     yarloos  rdJabes  for,  57S.*.. .   tk 
WaMrfouclifiliO «...  175 


« 

Wtfkfoi;  tbe  Sev.  G.,  Uf  Unts  t9 

lieadflonhnQfeB.) 

W6MinbMt,5aO..»... 

WliMlB^n,81 l«i 

While  sauce,  364, 305 MV 

—  wine  iiriiejr,  660. att 

Wbltlngii,  Med,  153. ITj 

Whtofl7llabttb(Ap.50.) 33S 

WldleonBamlteai,?}. 144 

#llddiickfl,74 lb. 

WtaienaceiBrTeftlHMi,lEG.,944...  9S 

€Bchiloc,409 971 

Woq46Wk,70 144 

I  hM  the  Bftne  honovni 

paid  to  it  «i  the  Orand  Lama, 

notetoTO..*. ibu 

Wow  wow  sauce  finr  boiled  beeC 

390 949 

Weigbti  and  neaniresJir  cookeiy, 

taMeoT. 64 

WMght,  the  diniinntion  that  tak«B 
place  in  cooldng. .  • * 70 

T^rkshlre  padding,  S5S «-•  341 

* 


THS  Bsmo 


«      « 


«, 


i^ 


• 


^  ,»•■*., 


>.v 


^ 


VI 


■ 

*4 


