Desk 


TX  715 
.C78543 
1902 
Copy  1 


be  Cook's  Trknd. 


1902 


WhatlMvc  we  here* 

Such  hints  of  cheer 

Ah  acts  one's  lipa  to  smacking; 

Then  buy  a  book  to  give  your  cook,] 

And  bilh  of  fart  both  rich  and  rare 

You  never  will  bt  lacking. 

Ml 


*  <*  Zhc  %ion  Store.  <*  t 


We  will  occupy  the  new  Union  Block  on  the 
corner  of  Meridian  and  Eleventh  Streets  in 
1903,  and  in  the  meantime  we  invite  you  to 
make  our  store  your  headquarters  when  in  the 
city,  We  are  making  extremely  Low  Prices 
now  in  order  that  we  may  reduce  our  stock  be- 
fore moving. 

Respectfully, 


ANDERSON. 


0(0.  W.  Davis.  Z 


■X- 


THE  COOK  S  FRIEND, 


J*   &   j*-  PUBLISHED  BY   <t*   &  £ 

XLhc  Cosmos  Society, 

*   &   OF   THE   *  & 

M.  E.  CHURCH, 

MIDDIXTOWN,  ,  INDIANA. 

''Bad  dinners  go  hand  in  hand  with  total  depravity, 
While  a  properly  fed  man  is  already  half  saved." 

tfifc  t^fc 

I 

NEWS  PRINT— MIDDLETOWN,  IND. 


2 


FIRST  M.  E.  CHURCH,  Middletown,  Indiana. 


Library  of  Congress 


2010  474649 


3 


WHAT  IT  MEANS. 


To  be  a  good  cook  means  the  knowledge  of  all  fruits,  herbs,  balms, 
spices,  and  of  all  that  is  healing  and  sweet  in  groves  and  savory  of  meats. 
It  means  carefulness,  inventiveness,  watchfulness,  willingness  and  read- 
iness of  appliances.  It  means  the  ecouomy  of  your  great-grandmothers 
and  the  science  of  modern  chemistry.  It  means  much  tasting  and  no  wast- 
ing. It  means  English  thoroughness,  French  art  and  American  hospitality. 
It  means  in  fine,  that  you  are  to  be  perfectly  and  always  ladies  (loaf 
givers)  and  that  you  are  to  see  that  everybody  has  something  nice  to  eat 

John  Ruskin. 

>•»»»»»>*«<:«««<« 

How  To  Cook  A  Husband. 

In  selecting  your  husband  you  should  not  be  guided  by  the  silvery 
appearance  as  in  buying  a  mackerel  nor  by  the  golden  tint  as  if  you  wanted 
a  salmon.  Be  sure  to  select  him  yourself  as  tastes  differ.  Do  not  go  to 
market  for  him  as  the  best  one  is  always  brought  to  your  door.  It  is  far 
better  to  have  none  unless  you  will  patiently  learn  how  to  cook  him. 

A  preserving  kettle  of  the  finest  porcelain  is  best,  but  if  you  have 
nothing  but  an  earthenware  pipkin  it  will  do  with  care.  See  that  the  linen 
in  which  you  wrap  him  is  nicely  washed  and  mended  with  the  required 
number  of  buttons  and  strings  sewed  on.  Tie  him  in  the  kettle  with  a  silk 
cord  called  Comfort  as  the  one  called  Duty  is  apt  to  be  weak.  Make  a 
clean,  steady  fire  out  of  love,  neatness  and  cheerfulness.  Set  him  as  near 
the  fire  as  seems  to  agree  with  him.  If  he  sputters  and  fizzes  do  not  be 
anxious;  some  husbands  do  this  till  they  are  quite  done.  Add  a  little 
sugar  in  the  form  of  what  confectioners  call  kisses,  but  no  vinegar  or 
pepper  on  any  account.  A  little  spice  improves  him,  but  must  be  used 
with  judgment.  Do  not  stick  any  sharp  instrument  in  him  to  see  if  he  is 
becoming  tender.  Set  him  gently  watching  the  while,  lest  he  lies  too  close 
to  the  kettle  and  so  becomes  insipid  and  useless.  You  cannot  fail  to  know 
when  he  is  done.  If  thus  treated  you  will  find  him  very  relishable  agree- 
ing nicely  with  you  and  the  children  and  he  will  keep  as  long  as  you  want, 
unless  you  become  careless  and  set  him  in  too  cold  a  place. 

Selected. 


4 


Housekeeping  Alphabet. 


Apples — Keep  in  dry  place  as  cool  as  possible  without  freezing. 
Brooms — Keep  hanging  up  and  dip  in  hot  soapsuds  occasionally. 
Cranberries — Keep  in  water  changing  water  frequently. 
Dish  of  hot  water  set  in  oven  prevents  cakes,  etc.,  from  scorching. 
Economize  time,  health  and  means  and  you  will  never  beg. 
Flour — Keep  cool,  dry  and  securely  covered. 

Glass — Clean  with  a  quart  of  water  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  ammonia. 

Herbs — Gather  when  beginning  to  blossom,  keep  in  paper  sacks. 

Ink  Stains — Wet  with  spirits  of  turpentine,  after  three  hours  rub  well. 

Jars — To  prevent,  coax  husband  to  buy  a  "Cook's  Friend," 

Keep  an  account  of  all  supplies  with  cost  and  date  of  purchase. 

Love  lightens  labor. 

Money — Count  carefully  when  you  receive  change. 

Nutmegs — Prick  with  a  pin  and  if  good,  oil  will  run  out. 

Orange  and  lemon  peel — Dry,  pound  and  keep  in  corked  bottles. 

Provide  on  Saturday  for  Monday,  so  as  not  to  take  up  fire  with  cooking,  or 

time  by  running  ei rands  on  wash  day. 
Quit  fretting — It  causes  wrinkles. 

Rainy  Days— Make  the  house  as  bright  and  sunshiny  as  possible. 

Sugar — For  general  family  use  granulated  is  best. 

Toothsome  meals  served  cheerfully  will  prove  digestable. 

Use  judgment — Well  mixed  with  a  pleasant  countenance  and  willing  heart 

and  hand  will  make  a  happy  home. 
Variety  is  the  very  best  of  culinary  spices. 
Watch  your  back  yard  for  dirt  and  bones. 
Xantippa  was  a  scold,  don't  imitate  her. 
Youth  is  best  preserved  by  a  cheerful  temper. 
Zinc — Lined  zincs  are  better  than  wooden  ones. 

Regulate  the  clock  by  your  husband's  watch,  and  in  all  apportionment  of 
time  remember  the  Giver. 


/ 

7 


5  i 


The 

The 

JLsiitCol 

Restaurant, 

Styles 

Is  the  place  for  Lunch, 

And  m6st  Fashionable 

Short    Orders,  Cold 

Creations  in  up-to-date 

IVfpfltci   Ov«itPT*s  in  spfi- 

Millinery,    and  the 

son,  Fruits,  Nuts  and 

Prettiest  Trimmings  at 

Candies. 

the  Lowest  Prices.  .  . 

LINC  SANDERS, 

PROPRIETOR 

Miss  Kate  Sowash. 

It  Is  Not  All  In  Cooking 


Much  of  the  happiness  and  comfort  of  life  depends  upon 
the  beauty  of  the  home — outside  and  inside. 


Paint  and  Wall  Paper 


Nicely  selected  and  well  put  on  adds  much  to  the  cheer 
of  the  home.  Our  line  of  Papers,  Mouldings,  Paints, 
Etc.  is  complete  and  up-to-date.  We  also  handle  Win- 
dow Glass  and  have  a  nice  variety  of  Window  Shades. 
Would  be  pleased    to  show  samples  and  take  orders. 


B.  W-  CASTETTER  &  SON 


6 


We>  Do 


On  the  square  and  ask  only  that  you  give 
us  a  chance  to  prove  it  to  you,    -    -  - 

We  Handle  the  Best  in 

Apricots,  Berries,  Cocoa,  Dried  Fruit, 
Extracts,  Flour,  Grape  Nuts,  Herring, 
Jams,  Jellies,  Lard,  Molasses,  Noodles, 
Olives,  Pickles,  Quaker  Oats,  Raisins, 
Starch,  Tea,  Coffee,  Vinegar,  Wafers, 
Yeast,  Etc. 


WE  ALSO  HANDLE... 

Queensware,  Ghinaware  and  Glassware. 


J.  W.  FARRELL  &  CO 


7 


BEVERAGES. 


drink  to  the  joy  of  the  whole  table 
and  our  dear  friends." — Shakespeare. 


How  to  Make  Good  Coffee. 

"One  for  the  pot"  and  a  tabiespoonful  of  ground  coffee  for  each  per- 
son. Mix  well  with  a  part  or  the  whole  of  an  egg,  and  enough  cold  water 
to  thoroughly  moisten  it;  place  in  a  well  scalded  coffee  boiler.  Pour  in  half 
the  quantity  of  boiling  water  needed,  allowing  one  less  pint  of  water  than 
there  are  tablespoonfuls  of  coffee.  Roll  a  cloth  tightly,  and  stop  up  the 
spout,  thus  keeping  in  all  the  coffee  flavor.  Boil  rather  fast  for  five  or 
ten  minutes;  and  place  on  back  part  of  stove  to  simmer  for  ten  or  fifteen 
longer.  When  ready  to  serve  add  the  remainder  of  the  boiling  water.  The 
coffee  will  be  clear  and  well  flavored  if  these  directions  are  carefully 
followed. 

Russian  Ice  Tea. 

Make  good,  strong  tea;  let  cool,  then  throw  in  a  lump  of  grated  ice. 
Sweeten  and  add  a  ltttle  lemon  juice.  Serve  in  glasses  with  thin  slices  of 
lemon.  Selected. 

Chocolate. 

Dissolve  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Baker's  chocolate,  grated }  in  a  pint  of 
boiling  water.  Add  a  little  sugar  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  pour 
in  one  pint  of  rich  milk,  let  it  scald  and  serve  hot.  Selected. 

Lemonade. 

Two  large,  juicy  lemons,  one  large  cupful  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  ice 
water.    Ripe  strawberries  mashed  and  added  are  very  delicious. 

Selected. 

Pineapple  Lemonade. 

Boil  ten  minutes  one  cup  of  sugar,  oue  pint  of  water;  add  juice  of  four 
lemons,  and  one  freshly  grated  pineapple,  cool,  strain  and  add  one  quart  of 
ice  water.    Serve  with  cracked  ice.  Bernice  Emswiller. 


s 


Raspberry  Vinegar. 

A  refreshing  drink — Three  tablespoonfuls  to  glass  of  water,  one  quart 
white  vinegar,  three  quarts  red  raspberries.  After  standing  a  day  strain  it, 
adding  to  each  pint  of  juice  one  pound  of  sugar.  Put  on  the  fire  and  let 
boil  and  skim  clear;  boil  about  one-half  hour.  Put  in  wine  glass  of  brandy 
to  each  pint  of  syrup.    When  nearly  cool  bottle  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Adolph  Lett. 

Grape  Wine. 

Pour  six  quarts  boiling  water  over  twenty  pounds  grapes  in  si  one  jar, 
cover  with  a  thin  cloth  and  let  stand  three  days,  then  press  out  the  juice, 
add  ten  pounds  of  sugar.  After  it  has  stood  a  week  skim  and  strain. 
Bottle,  corking  loosely ;  when  fermentation  is  completed  strain  it  again  and 
bottle,  corking  tightly.  Mrs.  Annie  Wood. 

Cocoa. 

One  teaspoonful  of  cocoa  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  for  each  cup. 
Mix  the  same  with  boiling  water  to  a  paste,  add  little  lemon  juice;  take  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  boiling  rich  milk  and  one-third  boiling  water;  boiling  all 
together  for  one  hour  stirring  all  the  time;  when  cool  skim  off  the  oil,  heat 
it  to  the  boiling  point  when  read}-  to  serve.  Put  a  teaspoonful  of  whipped 
cream  on  each  cup  of  cocoa.  Helen  R.  Cassell. 

Grape  Punch. 

Put  in  a  dish  the  juice  of  six  lemons,  three  oranges,  one-half  can  of 
shredded  pineapple,  a  cup  of  stewed  raisins  and  two  bananas.  Boil  a  quart 
of  water  and  two  cups  of  sugar  five  minutes.  WThen  cold  put  in  a  large 
vessel,  add  a  quart  of  unfermented  grape  juice  to  the  above  ingredients 
and  put  in  water  to  taste  and  serve  with  cracked  ice.  Selected. 

Grape  Juice. 

Pick  over  and  stem  the  grapes;  almost  cover  with  water  and  bring 
slowly  to  a  boil.  WThen  all  the  juice  seems  fieed  strain  through  a  jelly 
bag,  measure  and  return  to  the  stove.  For  each  quart  of  juice  allow  one- 
third  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  boil  five  minutes.  Selected. 

Temperance  Punch. 

Six  lemons,  four  oranges,  one-half  can  of  grated  pineapple  to  one 
gallon  of  water,  mix  and  let  stand  thirty-six  hours.  Add  one  pint  of  good 
fruit  juice,  three  bananas  sliced,  two  pounds  of  sugar  and  one-half  pint  of 
cranberry  juice.  Margaret  E.  Raper. 


9 


Blackberry  Cordial. 

One  quart  of  blackberry  juice,  one-half  ounce  of  grated  nutmeg,  one- 
fourth  ounce  allspice,  one  pint  best  brandy,  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  one- 
half  ounce  powdered  cinnamon  and  one-fourth  ounce  of  cloves.  Tie  the 
spices  in  a  thin  muslin  bag,  boil  juice,  sugar  and  spices  together  fifteen 
minutes,  skimming  well.  Add  the  brandy  and' set  aside  in  a  closely 
covered  vessel  to  cool.  When  perfectly  cold  strain  out  the  spices  and 
bottle,  sealing  corks.  Selected. 


The  Corner  Drug  Store 

For  Pure  Drugs,  Extracts  and  Spices* 
Stationery,  Perfumes,  Toilet  Articles, 
c£©c£  and  Soaps.  Everything  fresh  and  new. 

BECKER,  The  Druggist. 


M.  D.  Hutsonpillar, 

 Repairs  

Watches,   Clocks,  Sewing 
Wacbines. 

Give  him  your  work. 
Phone  169.  Middletown,  Ind. 


1 


Dr,  B,  H.  PAINTER, 


Makes  a  specialty  of  treat- 
ing La  Grippe,  Ear  Troub- 
les, Catarrh,  Diseases  of 
the  Lungs,  Heart,  Liver 
and  Kidneys,  and  Dropsy. 
Try  his 

MANILA  LINIMENT, 

the  greatest  Liniment  on 
earth  for  all  pain  and  in- 
juries. Office  over  J.  B. 
Frazier's  store,  Middletown. 


10 


Receipt  For  ^ 


Corns,  Bunions  and 
Ingrowing  Toe  Nails:  J& 


GO  TO^ 

Joe  Tadety  &  Son, 

Jlndwson,  Indiana, 

And  buy  your  foot-wear,  as  their  long  ex- 
perience has  taught  them  how  to  fit  you 
correctly.  They  are  the  first  to  receive  the 
latest  styles,  and  handle  nothing  but  the  best 
quality.  When  in  need  of  foot-wear  give 
them  a  trial. 

Home  of  the  Walk=over 
and  Queen  Quality 

%SHOES. 


11 


BREAD. 


4  4W|)Ut  a  batch  of  bread  that  haint  riz  once 
Jul  ain't  goin'  to  rise  ag'in." 


Brown  Bread, 

Three  cups  of  brown  flour,  one-half  cup  of  white  flour,  one  pint  of 
sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  Royal  Baking 
Powder,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  A  handful  of 
sugar  can  be  used  instead  of  molasses. 

Brown  Bread. 

Use  a  quart  of  white  bread  sponge  same  as  used  for  white  bread.  It 
is  enough  for  one  loaf.  Use  all  brown  flour,  knead  about  as  stiff  as  white 
bread,  use  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  lard  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Mrs.  George  Young. 

Fine  Dry  Yeast. 

Take  two  large  potatoes  and  a  large  handful  of  hops  (the  hops  tied  in 
a  bag.)  Then  boil  hops  and  potatoes  in  three  pints  of  water.  When  done, 
take  out  potatoes,  mash  well  and  add  one  pint  of  flour,  then  pour  the  boil- 
ing potato  and  hop  water  over  all,  beat  well  together  adding  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salt,  one  of  ginger  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar.  When  luke-warm 
add  one  cup  of  some  good  dry  yeast  and  let  stand  two  days  (or  only  one  if 
very  warm  weather)  stirring  down  frequently.  Then  add  good  white  corn 
meal  until  thick  enough  to  cut  into  cakes  about  half  inch  in  thickness.  Use 
some  flour  to  roll  out  cakes  with.  Place  to  dry  in  the  shade  (never  expose 
to  the  sun  or  stove  heat)  where  the  air  will  pass  freely  so  as  to  dry  them  as 
soon  as  possible.  Turn  the  cakes  frequently  so  they  will  dry  out  evenly 
and  quickly.  When  dry  put  in  paper  sack  and  keep  in  dry  place.  A  small 
cake  of  this  yeast  will  make  a  sponge  sufficient  to  bake  five  or  six  loaves  of 
bread.  Mrs.  Nixon  Rush,  Fairmount. 


12 


White  Bread. 

One  pint  of  water  drained  from  boiled  potatoes,  with  two  tablespoon  - 
fuls  of  finel}'  mashed  potatoes  added.  Set  it  aside  and  scald  a  pint  of  milk, 
adding,  when  scalded,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Now  in  a  quart  bowl  put  a  teacup  of  lukewarm  water  and  one  cake 
of  Yeast  Foam.  Let  it  dissolve  slowly,  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  enough 
flour  to  thicken  moderately.  Place  it  where  it  will  keep  warm,  and  at 
night  put  the  potato  water,  milk  and  risen  yeast  together  in  the  bread  bowl, 
stirring  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  well  and  set  it  where 
it  will  keep  warm.  In  the  morning  stir  in  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  warm  water,  and  add  flour  to  mould  stiff.  Let  it  rise  again 
and  make  into  loaves.  Yeast  Foam  Co. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. 

One  cup  each  of  flour,  white  corn  meal,  sweet  milk,  and  two-thirds  of 
a  cup  of  light  Orleans  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  of  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  weter.  Take  pound  baking  powder  cans,  lard  them  well, 
and  fill  two-thirds  full.  Put  on  their  lids  and  set  them  in  a  kettle  which 
is  about  half  full  of  boiling  water.  Put  on  the  kettle  lid  and  keep  con- 
stantly boiling  for  two  hours.    Replenish  often  with  boiling  water. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Barton. 

Corn  Bread. 

Two  and  one-half  pints  of  corn  meal,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  quart  of 
sweet  milk,  mix  thoroughly  and  add  one  pint  of  wheat  flour  in  which  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar  with  a  little  salt  have  been 
mixed.  Stir  the  beaten  eggs  into  the  milk,  then  the  other  ingredients. 
Beat  well  three  minutes  and  bake  quickly  in  shallow  pans. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Bowers,  Mrs.  Otto  Trittschuh. 

Easy  Bread. 

One  cake  compressed  yeast  and  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  dissolved  in 
one-half  cup  lukewarm  water,  three  quarts  of  flour,  three  pints  of  water, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  lump  of  butter. 
Makeup  at  night,  let  rise,  form  into  loaves  in  the  morning ;  let*  it  rise 
again  and  bake.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Unger,  Eaton,  Ohio. 

Sweet  Milk  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder, 
sweet  milk  to  moisten,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  even  tablespoonfuls 
of  lard.  This  will  make  one  dozen  large  biscuits.  The  dough  should  be 
just  moist  enough  so  it  will  not  stick.  Brush  cream  over  top  when  a  rich 
brown  is  wanted  or  dip  them  in  warm  lard  before  baking. 

Mrs.  A.  J.  Griffis. 


13 


Corn  Bread. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  two 
eggs;  stir  all  together  and  add  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  teaspoonfuls 
(scant)  baking  powder,  three-fourths  cup  of  corn  meal  and  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  batter.  Mrs.  William  Morgan. 

Salt  Rising  Bread. 

A  half  pint  of  new  milk,  boiled,  stir  into  this,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn  meal  and  stir  well.  Set  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing take  a  pint  and  a  half  of  warm  water,  soda  the  size  of  a  pea,  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  stir  in  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  then  stir  in  the  mush  and  set 
in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Add  a  little  more  warm  water  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  lard,  two  of  sugar,  a  little  more  salt,  mix  stiff,  knead  well,  mould  in 
pans,  let  rise  and  bake  a  half  hour.  When  done  grease  the  top  with  butter 
.and  let  it  stand  in  pans  until  it  softens. 

Anna  D.  Welsh,  Lillian  YanMatre. 

Graham  Bread. 

One  half  pint  of  Orleans  molasses  with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda 
beaten  white,  one  pint  of  sour  milk,  with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two 
pints  of  Graham  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
and  bake  two  hours  in  a  slow  oven  in  two  pans  with  a  greased  paper  over 
each.  Laura  Painter. 

Corn  Bread. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  corn  meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  one- 
third  cup  of  butter  (scant),  one  egg,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Stir  all  dry  ingredients  through  a  sieve  together;  beat  egg  very 
light  and  add  milk  and  melted  butter.  Beat  the  batter  until  light,  and 
bake  twenty  minutes  in  buttered  pan.  Mrs  Oran  Cromer. 

Saratoga  Biscuits. 

Heat  a  pint  of  milk  over  the  fire,  and  when  hot  enough  to  melt  butter 
remove ;  add  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  good  yeast,  a  little  salt  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Let  them  rise  in  a  warm  place  for  two  or  three  hours.  Make  up 
into  small  biscuits  or  bun-shaped  cakes,  lay  close  together  on  a  well- 
buttered  tin,  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Chas,  Thomas,  Muncie,  Ind, 


14: 


Graham  Biscuit. 

Three  cups  of  Graham  flour,  one  cup  of  wheat  flour,  two  large  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powber,  well  mixed  or  sifted  together  dry,  rub  in  two 
large  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  beaten 
egg,  and  cold  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  roll  out,  cut  with 
cake  cutter  and  bake  at  once. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Ramsey,  Mrs.  Mattie  Yates. 

Salt  Rising  Bread. 

One-half  teacupful  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  corn  meal,  boil  and  set 
where  it  will  keep  warm  over  night.  Next  morning  take  one-half  pint  new 
milk  and  one  pint  warm  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  of  sugar, 
thicken  with  flour  and  add  the  batter  that  was  made  the  night  before,  set 
in  a  crock  over  warm*  water  till  it  gets  light.  Knead  in  one-half  pint  water, 
little  salt  and  lard  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Let  rise  twice,  make  three  loaves 
and  bake  almost  one  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  A.  S.  Fisher. 

Steamed  Brown  Bread. 

One  cup  Orleans  molasses,  two  cups  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  -of 
soda  dissolved  in  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  three  cups  Graham  flour, 
steam  three  hours.  Emma  S.  Druley,  Miss  McAlister. 

Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  pint  milk,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking 
Powder,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard.  Mrs.  A.  S.  Miller. 

French  Rolls. 

At  noon  scald  a  pint  of  milk,  then  let  cool.  Sift  two  quarts  of  flour, 
into  which  rub  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  then  make  a  hole  in  the 
center.  Stir  a  spoonful  of  yeast  and  two  spoonfuls  of  sugar  into  your 
milk,  then  put  all  into  the  center  of  the  flour.  Let  it  stand  several  hours 
till  foamy;  then  mix  in  all  the  flour,  cover  and  set  -  it  away  over  night.  In 
the  morning  it  will  be  found  nicely  risen;  knead  it  a  very  little:  roll  out, 
not  too  thin,  spread  over  with  butter,  and  cut  in  rounds,  lapping  over  edge. 
Do  not  place  the  rolls  near  together  in  pan.  Let  them  rise  about  two 
hours,  then  bake  in  a  quick. oven  about  20  minutes.    Mrs.  J.  W.  Farrell. 


15 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 


Griddle  Cakes. 

Break  finely  enough  stale  bread  to  measure  two  cups,  pour  over  it. a  cup 
of  rich  milk  and  leave  it  to  soak  for  an  hour  or  so.  Then  mash  the  bread 
and  milk  to  a  paste,  adding  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  two  well  beaten  eggs.  Sift 
into  the  mixture  a  cup  of  flour  into  which  has  been  stirred  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda.    Lastly  add  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle,  i 

Margaret  E.  Raper. 

Little  Sally  Lunns. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  add  to  them  half  a  cup  of  milk  or 
water.  Sift  well  together  two  cups  of  flour,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder.  Stir  the  eggs 
and  milk  gradually  into  the  flour  and  add  a  half  cup  of  butter.  Beat  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  fold  into  the  batter.  Fill  muffin  or  gem  pans 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  20  minutes.  Nelle  Fisher. 

Graham  Gems. 

Two  cupfuls  of  Graham  flour,  one  cup  of  wheat  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  of  salt  and  one  well  beaten 
egg.  Mix  with  sweet  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter,  beat  it  well  and  bake  in 
gem  irons;  have  the  irons  well  greased,  fill  two  thirds  full  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  Lou  Wilhoit, 

Mrs.  Adda  Lamb. 

Pop-overs. 

Two  tea-cups  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  sifted  flour  heaped  a  little, 
butter  size  of  a  walnut,  two  eggs  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  lit- 
tle salt;  bake  in  hot  gem  pans  filled  half  full  and  serve  immediately. 

Emma  Clevenger,  Indianapolis. 


Hold!  Stop! 

Have  you  found  the  right  place  to  buy  Hardware  and  save  money? 
I  can  safely  say,  if  you  are  in  the  market  for  a  first-class,  high  grade  article 
I  can  and  will  save  you  money. 

I  strive  to  secure  the  best  the  market  affords 
in  COOK  and  HEATING  STOVES.  Every 
one  sold  under  guarantee.  A  full  stock  on 
hand  at  all  times. 


HARDWARE ;.; 


is  my  business  and  I  stand 
ready  at  all  times  to  furnish 
you  the  latest,  best  improved  and  cheapest 
line  of  hardware  found  anywhere. 


TINWARE  AND  TINWORK^ 

Stand  in  the  front  rank  and  no  body 
can  procure  better. 

Roofing,  Spouting  and  Repairing 

DONE  AT  ALL  TIMES. 


The  Wheeler  Gravity  Cream  Separator. 

Is  the  only  one  to  buy.  It  saves  you  labor  and  time, 
and  saves  you  money.  It  is  so  constructed  that  the  can  is 
thoroughly  drained — causing  it  to  last  longer,  stay  nicer,  and 
do  better  than  any  other  Separator  on  the  market.  Prices 
reasonable. 

7  Gal.  $2.75.  11  Gal.  $3.25.  18  Gal.  $4.50. 

I  can  furnish  you  with  Guns,  Pumps,  Tools  and  in  fact  everything  found 
in  a  Hardware  Store.  We  are  always  open  for  business.  Give  us  a  call. 
Fair  dealing  and  honesty  in  every  transaction  is  our  motto. 

Thanking  you  in  advance,  I  remain  very  respectfully  yours, 

O.  K.  MOORE 


f 


17 


Buckwheat  Cakes* 

Mix  with  warm  water  a  little  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  molasses  and  one 
pint  of  good  buckwheat  flour  to  the  usual  consistency  of  griddle  cakes;  let 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  one  teaspoonfulof  soda  and  one  of 
cream  of  tartar  (or  two  heapiug  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder) 
thinning  the  batter  if  necessary  and  bake  immediately  on  very  hot  griddle. 

Mrs.  Joe.  Prigg. 

Sweet  Pancakes, 

Beat  six  eggs,  without  separating,  until  light;  mix  with  one  pint  of 
cream;  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
grated  nutmeg,  and  about  two  cupf uls  and  a  half  of  flour  and  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder.  The  batter  must  be  the  same  con- 
sistency as  for  ordinary  pancakes.  Rub  a  frying  pan  with  a  piece  of  un- 
cooked suet  and  make  very  hot,  then  pour  in  sufficient  batter  to  cover  the 
bottom  to  a  thickness  of  an  inch.  Cook  until  brown  on  one  side,  turn 
quickly  and  brown  on  the  other  side.    Pat  sifted  sugar  between  cakes. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Morgan,  Alexandria. 

Rusks* 

One  cup  of  sponge,  one  heaping  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  mashed 
potatoes  beaten  until  light,  four  eggs  beaten  separately.  Let  rise  very 
light,  add  one  cup  of  lard  and  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  let  rise  again, 
then  make  in  cakes  and  when  very  light  bake  in  slow  oven. 

Ella  Smelser. 

Potato  Pancakes. 

Grate  about  five  large  potatoes,  put  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  milk,  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  three  tablespoonfuls  sifted  flour,  mix  well.  Fry  in  butter 
and  lard.  Mrs.  Adolph  Levy. 

Breakfast  Cakes  or  Corn  Muffins. 

One  large  cup  of  }7ellow  corn  meal,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt, 
one  beaten  egg  all  mixed  in  one  and  one  half  cups  sweet  milk.  Heat  a  fry- 
ing pan  very  hot,  grease,  put  in  a  spoonful  of  the  batter  in  a  place,  turn 
and  let  brown  on  both  sides.  Mrs.  Theadore  Mowrey. 


18 


For  BreaJkf a^st 
Luncheon 
or  Te^L 

A  few  small  biscuits  easily  made  with 
Royal  Baking  Powder.  Make  them 
small  —  as  small  round  as  a  napkin  ring. 
Mix  and  bake  just  before  the  meal. 
Serve  hot. 

Nothing  better  for  a  light  dessert 
than  these  little  hot  biscuits  with  butter 
and  honey,  marmalade  or  jam. 

You  must  use  Royal  Baking  Powder 
to  get  them  right. 

Neither  good  nor  wholesome  biscuit  can  be 
produced  with  alum  baking  powder,  which 
may  be  known  by  its  lower  price.  Alum  is  a 
mineral  acid  whose  use  in  food  causes  dys- 
pepsia, liver  complaint  and  kidney  trouble. 

ROYAL  BAKING  POWDER  CO.,  100  WILLIAM  ST.,  NEW  YORK. 


19 


Graham  Gems. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  Graham  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
Daniels'  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking 
Powder,  one  level  tablespoonful  of  lard,  mix  well  with  sweet  milk  into  a 
batter,  not  too  soft,  and  bake  in  gem  pans  for  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Mrs.  Adda  Lamb. 

Currant  Buns. 

Take  two  cups  of  bread  dough;  put  in  a  dish,  make  a  hole  in  the  center, 
add  two  spoons  of  butter  and  two  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  currants  chopped 
fine,  one  egg  beaten  lightly,  mix  well  together  and  let  rise;  knead  it  down 
and  let  it  rise  the  second  time,  then  take  off  bits  of  dough  as  large  as  a 
crab  apple,  make  smooth  and  round,  lay  on  a  greased  tin,  leaving  space 
euough  between  them  so  that  they  will  not  touch  each  other.  When  ligh  t 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Emma  Beasley,  Fairmount, 

Waffles. 

Three  eggs,  one  quart  sifted  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking 
Powder,  one  half  cup  butter,  use  milk  to  make  batter. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Loyd,  McKeesport,  Pa. 

Fried  Mush. 

A  delicious  relish  is  made  by  slicing  cold  mush  thin  and  frying  in  a 
little  hot  lard.  Or  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  salted  to  taste,  then  in  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  and  drop  in  hot  lard  like  doughnuts. 

Mrs.  Frank  Jackson. 

Muffins. 

One  pint  of  flour  sifted,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking 
Powder,  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one 
cup  sweet  milk,  a  little  salt.    Bake  quickly,  have  muffin  rings  hot. 

Mattie  Craven. 

Apple  Fritters. 

Make  fritters  quickly  and  beat  thoroughly.  Three  eggs  beaten  very 
light,  one  quart  milk,  make  a  thin  batter,  add  a  little  salt  and  the  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon,  pare,  core  and  slice  thin  one  quart  nice,  tart  apples,  add 
all  together  and  drop  in  spoonfuls  in  boiling  lard.  Served  with  sauce  is 
nice.  Mrs.  Oscar  Engle,  Anderson. 


20 


Quick  Buckwheat  Cakes* 

To  a  pint  of  buckwheat  flour,  while  dry  add  two  heaping  teaspoon fuls 
of  Ro}'al  Baking  Powder,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  scant  tablespoonful  of 
Orleans  molasses  to  make  brown,  mix  well  together.  When  ready  to  bake 
add  one  pint  of  cold  water  or  sufficient  to  form  a  batter,  stir  but  little,  bake 
immediately  on  a  hot  griddle.  The  baking  powder  should  never  be  put  in- 
to the  batter  but  always  mixed  with  the  flour  in  a  dry  state.  If  prefered 
wheat  flour  may  be  mixed  with  the  buckwheat  flour. 

Royal  Baking  Powder  Cook  Book. 


WE  HAVE 

Everything  In  Shoes 

But  Tour  Feet- 


O.  P.  Greenlee  &  Son 

Dealers  in  General  Merchandise. 


Chas.  C.  Druley 

 HEADS  THE  LIST  FOR  

STOVES  and  HARDWARE. 

MIDDLETOWN,  INDIANA. 


21 


CAKES. 

^^yjTith  weights  and  measures,  just  and  true,  oven 
rr   with  even  heat,  well  buttered  tins  and  quiet, 
success  will  be  complete/' 

Prince  of  Wales  Cake. 

Light  Part — One  cup  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  whites  of 
three  eggs,  one-half  cup  corn-starch,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Dark  Part — One  cup  brown  sugar, 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  lard  or  butter,  one  cup  of  seeded 
raisins,  one  teaspoonful  of  all  kinds  of  spices,  two  tablespoonfuls  Orleans 
molasses,  one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  one  tablespoonful  boiling 
water.  Mrs.  Harry  St.  John. 

*     Chocolate  Cake* 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one-half 
cup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  half  cup  boiling  water,  two 
small  cakes  sweet  chocolate  grated  in  the  hot  water  after  the  soda  has  dis- 
solved, two  and  one-third  cups  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vanilla. 
Filling — Two  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  a  piece  of 
buttter  size  of  an  egg.    Cook  until  waxy.  Mrs.  0.  A.  Kirkman. 

Fruit  Cake. 

One  pound  raisins,  one  pound  currants,  one  pound  figs,  one  pound 
dates,  one  and  one-half  pounds  lemon  peel,  one  pound  butter,  three  cups 
brown  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  molasses,  eight  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  two  teaspoonfuls  cocoa,  three 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla,  flour  to  thicken. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Loyd,  McKeesport,  Pa. 
Mrs.  Hannah  Moore,  McKeesport,  Pa. 


22 


Lemon  Jelly  Cake. 

One  snd  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  beat  to  a  cream, 
one- half  cup  milk,  two  and  a  half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Bak- 
ing Powder,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  bake  in  sheets  or  in  jelly  tins.  Jelly 
for  cake — One  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  grate  the  yellow  rind  and  use  with  the 
juice  of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
place  in  pan  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  thicken,  stirring  all  the 
time,  when  cool  spread  between  the  layers.    .        Miss  Hazel  Hess. 

Cocoanut  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
corn-starch,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  four 
teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder.  Mrs.  F.  W.  Cooper. 

Sunshine  Cake. 

Five  eggs,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
baking  powder — level,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Sallie  Fisher. 

White  Cake. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
butter,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

M.  K.,  New  Castle. 

Jam  Cake. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  on*>  cup  of  jam  or  raisins,  one-half  cup  butter,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  three  eggs,  white  of 
one  for  icing,  one  teaspoonful  allspice,  one  of  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  a 
little  nutmeg,  one  heaping  pint  of  flour.  Bake  in  layers  if  you  wish  and 
ice.  Mrs.  Geo.  C.  Davis, 

Mrs.  McCarty,  Mrs.  F.  P.  Miller. 

Spice  Cake. 

Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  cup 
molasses,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  milk, 
three  eggs  beaten  separately,  three  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoonful  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  nutnreg,  one  teaspoonful  cloves, 
one  teaspoonful  Royal  Baking  Powder.  Mrs.  T.  E.  Mowrey. 

Mrs.  Sadie  Powell. 


23 


Devil's  Food  Cake, 

Two  cups  soft  A  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  sour 
milk,  one-half  cup  hot  coffee,  three  cups  flour  sifted  twice,  one  teaspoonful 
soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  one-half  cup  Runkle  Brothers'  baking  chocolate 
dissolved  in  the  coffee  to  prevent  <?ake  from  falling;  cream  butter  and  sugar 
then  beat  in  at  least  one-third  floar  before  any  liquid  is  added,  and  keep 
adding  flour  after  each  ingredient,  add  the  eggs  one  at  a  time  and  flour 
after  each  one,  use  all  the  eggs  before  adding  any  liquid. 

Mrs.  Sines,  Mrs.  C.  K.  Moore. 

Angel  Food  Cake. 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  granulated  sugar  sifted  four  times,  one  cup 
flour  sifted  five  times,  the  whites  of  ten  or  eleven  eggs  half  beaten,  then 
add  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar  and  continue  beating  until  stiff,  then  add 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  also  sugar  added  lightly  and  mix 
thoroughly,  then  add  flour  in  same  manner  as  sugar,  and  do  not  stir  only 
just  enongh  to  get  it  well  mixed,  do  not  grease  the  pan,  put  in  oven  with 
small  fire  and  leave  the  oven  door  open  until  it  rises  to  the  top  of  the  pan 
then  close  the  door  and  increase  the  heat,  bake  fifty  or  sixty  minutes,  when 
done  take  out  and  turn  upside  down  and  let  stand  until  cool.  Icing — One 
cup  powdered  sugar,  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten,  then  add  sugar  and  one- 
half  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  beat  again.  Mrs.  John  Davis. 

Guissit  Cake. 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter  with  one  and  one-half  cups  granulated 
sugar,  beat  lightly  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  add  to  sugar  and  butter,  one- 
half  cup  sweet  milk.  Beat  in  slowly  one  and  one-half  cups  flour  with  two 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  and  add  to  the  mixture  the  beaten  whites  of 
three  eggs.  Dissolve  one-half  cup  of  chocolate  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
scalding,  milk  and  add  last.  Miss  Mary  Carroll. 

Spice  Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter  or  lard,  two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  butter- 
milk, three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  allspice,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  yolks  of  four  eggs 
and  whites  of  two  for  icing.  Mrs.  Irts  Fisher, 

Mrs.  Ballenger. 


24 


Rolled  Jelly  Cake. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs  well  beaten  together,  then  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water,  mix  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
with  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  add  this  to  the  eggs  and  sugar.  Do 
not  stir  much  after  adding  flour.  Flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  le-non,  bake 
in  a  dripping  pan  in  a  quick  oven.  When  cool,  spread  on  the  jelly  and  roll 
it  up  in  a  cloth  for  a  few  minutes. 

Mrs.  Fred  Oakley,  Fairmount. 

White  Fruit  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butte/,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  and 
one- half  cups  flour,  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs,  two  even  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing powder,  one  pound  each  of  seeded  raisins,  figs  and  blanched  almonds, 
one-quarter  pound  citron  chopped  fine;  mix  all  thoroughly  before  adding 
the  fruit,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract,  put  baking  powder  in  the 
flour  and  mix  well,  sift  a  little  flour  over  the  fruit  before  stirring  it  in. 
Bake  slowly  for  two  hours.     A  cup  of  grated  cocoanut  is  a  nice  addition. 

Mrs.  Frank  Daniels,  Daleville. 

Scripture  Cake. 

One  cup  of  Judges  5:  25,  three  and  one-half  cups  I  Kings  4:  22,  three 
cups  Jeremiah  6:  20,  two  cups  I  Samuel  30:  12,  two  cups  Xahum  3:  12, 
one  cup  Genesis  24:  17,  two  cups  (chopped)  Numbers  17:  8,  one-half 
dozen  Isaiah  10 :  14,  one  tablespoonful  1  Samuel  14:25,  one  teaspoonful 
Amos  4:  5,  one  pinch  of  Leviticus  2:  13,  season  to  taste  II  Chronicles  9:  9. 
(two  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon  and  cloves.)  Follow  Solomon's  advice  for 
making  a  good  boy,  Proverbs  23:  14.  Mrs.  Rolanl  To.mkins. 

Delicious  Chocolate  Cake. 

The  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  (scant)  of  latter, 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  full  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder; 
beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  milk  then  the  flour  with  bak- 
ing powder  well  mixed  in,  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites.  Divide  into  equal 
parts  and  into  one-half  grate  a  cake  of  sweet  chocolate.  Bake.  Spread 
the  layers  with  a  custard  made  by  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  one 
pint  of  milk,  when  comes  to  a  boil  stir  in  two  eggs  beaten  white  with  one 
cup  sugar,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk. 

Mrs.  D.  J.  Miller,  Eaton,  Ohio. 


25 


Chocolate  Cake* 

Two  ounces  chocolate  dissolved  in  five  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water, 
cream  one-half  cup  butter,  add  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs  beaten  very  light,  one-half  cup  milk  or  cream,  then  add  the 
chocolate,  one  and  three-fourths  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  lastly  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and 
dry,  stir  in  carefully  and  bake  in  layers  or  loaf  and  ice. 

Mrs.  Dr.  0.  W.  Brandon,  Waco,  Arizona. 

Miss  Lizzie  Sears,  Anderson. 

Jam  Cake* 

Four  eggs, — save  whites  of  two  for  icing — one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup 
butter,  three  cups  flour,  nine  tablespoonfuls  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  cup  jam,  one  teaspoonful  of 
allspice  and  cinnamon.     Strawberry  jam  is  best  but  any  kind  may  be  used. 

E.  J.,  Newcastle,  Mrs.  Denany,  Anderson. 

Devil's  Food  Cake. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk, 
two  cups  flour,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda  sifted  in  the  flour. 
Part  2nd. — One  cup  grated  chocolate,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup 
sweet  cream,  set  on  stove  until  all  is  dissolved,  but  do  not  let  boil,  when 
cool  stir  in  first  part  and  bake  in  oven  not  too  hot;  flavor  with  vanilla,  use 
any  kind  of  filling  wanted.  Mrs.  Edward  Fulton,  Anderson. 

Christmas  Fruit  Cake.  v 

^  (Three  Good  Size  Ones.) 
Two  cups  of  butter  and  lard  together,  two  and  one-half  cups  granulated 
sugar,  tw()  and  one-half  cups  molasses,  eight  and  one- half  cups  of  flour, 
two  cups  sour  milk,  eight  eggs,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking^  ^towder,  two  pounds  of  raisins  chopped  fine,  two 
pounds  of  currents,  one  pound  of  figs  chopped  fine,  two- thirds  of  a  pound 
of  citron,  two  lemons  grated,  one  glass  of  currant  jelly,  one-half  pint  of 
brandy,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  mace  and  nutmeg  and  cinnamon, 
one  pint  chopped  hickory  nuts,  one  pound  of  dates  chopped  fine.  Mix  flour 
and  fruit  together.     Bake  four  hours  or  until  done. 

Mrs.  George  Sigler,  Frankton. 


26 


Dried  Apple  Cake* 

Two  cups  of  dried  apples,  one  cup  of  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  of 
butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins, 
two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  cloves,  one  nutmeg,  a  little  lemon  extract.  Soak 
the  apples  over  night,  cut  up  fine  and  boil  in  the  molasses,  Add  the  other 
ingredients  and  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Flo  Mowrey. 

Cornucopias* 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cold  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  beat  thoroughly.  Drop  one 
tablespoonful  on  a  round  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  a  deli- 
cate brown  take  out  and  while  hot  lap  the  edges  together  in  the  form  of  a 
cornucopia  and  hold  in  shape  until  cool.  Fill  them  when  cold  with  whip- 
ped cream.  This  receipt  makes  twelve.    Mrs.  J.  H.  Unger,  Eaton,  0. 

Cake. 

Half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup  of  luke-warm  water,  two  and  one-half  cups 
of  flour,  three  eggs  or  the  yolks  or  whites  of  four,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  and  flavor  according  to  filling.  If  a  snowy  white  cake  is 
desired  use  only  the  whites.  Bake  in  three  layers  or  it  makes  a  nice  solid 
cake  using  icing  on  top.    (An  excellent  receipt.) 

Mrs,  W.  L.  McCampbell. 

Mahogony  Cake.  * 

One  and  one-half  cups  soft  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three 
eggs,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  milk,  one-half  cake  of  chocolate,  scant  one-half  cup  milk,  cook 
until  thick,  add  the  last  thing  while  hot.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Filling — One 
and  one-half  cups  sugar,  tablespoonful  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk ; 
cook  until  stiff  and  beat  until  it  creams.  Spread  between  layers  and  on  top. 

Ellen  Shoemaker,  Daleville. 

Coffee  Cake. 

Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  molasses,  one  egg,  one  cup  seeded  raisins,  one  cup  strong  coffee,  one 
teaspoonful  cloves,  two  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  o»e  nutmeg,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls soda,  flour  for  stiff  batter.     Mrs.  William  H.  Morgan,  Gilman. 


27 


French  Cream  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  three  eggs  beaten  together,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour,  two  teaspooufuls  baking  powder  well  mixed  with  flour,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water,  bake  in  two  tin  pie  plates  making  two  cakes.  The 
Custard — Take  nearly  a  pint  of  milk,  heat  and  when  nearly  boiling  add  two 
small  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  two  beaten 
eggs  with  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  cook  and  stir  it  all  the  time  until  it  thick- 
ens enough  to  drop  from  a  spoon  without  running,  remove  from  the  stove, 
add  half  a  teacupful  of  melted  butter  when  cold,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
vanilla.  Turn  out  the  cakes  on  a  moulding  board  and  split  them  with  a 
sharp  knife.    Spread  the  custard  on  each  cake  and  put  together. 

Mrs.  Frank  Scott,  Newcastle. 
Mrs.  Jennie  Jones,  Fairmount. 

Hickory-Nut  Cake* 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar  creamed  with  two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  then 
add  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  floor  that  has  one  tables poonful 
of  corn  starch  and  three  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  powder  sifted  in.  The 
whites  of  seven  eggs.  These  should  be  added  after  all  of  the  flour  is  in  . 
Last  put  in  one  cup  nuts,  chopped  very  fine,  also  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
vanilla.    It  should  be  baked  about  forty  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Griffis,  Mrs.  W.  S.  VanTuyl. 

Caramel  Cake. 

Rub  scant  one-half  cup  butter  to  a  cream,  gradually  add  two  cups  of 
granulated  sugar,  mix  until  white  and  creamy;  add  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
three  cups  of  floor  sifted  with  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking 
powder;  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in  three 
layers.  Filling — Two  cups  Yellow  C.  sugar,  two  cups  of  cream  or  rich 
milk ;  put  in  a  granite  pan  and  cook  forty-five  minutes.  When  thick  re- 
move from  the  stove  and  stir  in  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla — stir  until 
cold.  Mrs.  J.  A.  Young,  Mrs.  Willard  Sanders. 

Stir  Cake. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  soft  white  sugar,  one- half  cup  butter;  one-half 
cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  F.  W.  Cooper,  Mrs,  Lora  Smithson. 


28 


IGLEHEflRTS 


...ALSO  ASK  YOUR  GROCER  FOR... 

Igleheart's  I=B  Pancake  Flour 

for  making  the  BEST  Breakfast  Cakes, 
Finest  Waffles,  Muffins,  not  self-rising, 
absolutely  pure  and  free  from  all  chemi- 
cals. 


29 


English  Walnut  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  of  butter,  three-fourths  of  a  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  whites 
of  six  eggs,  one  pint  of  English  walnuts  or  hickory  nuts  cut  fine,  not 
chopped,  one  leaspoonful  vanilla.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  perfect 
cream,  then  stir  in  the  milk  a  little  at. a  time  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  a  little  at  a  time  first  the  eggs  then  the  flour,  into 
which  has  been  mixed  baking  powder.  Add  flour  and  eggs  alternately  till 
all  is  used,  then  stir  in  the  nuts  and  lastly  the  flavoring. 

Mrs.  Harry  Dayis,  Fairmount. 

Bread  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  bread  sponge,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
tablespoonful  of  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  cloves,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one-fourth  citron.  Mix  as  you  would  a 
cup  cake;  let  stand   to  rise  as  you  would  bread  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  M.  Reed. 

Cup  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  one  large  spoon- 
ful cream  of  tartar;  stir  butter  and  sugar  together  and  add  the  beaten  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  then  the  milk,  flavoring  and  the  whites,  put  cream  of  tartar  in 
flour  and  add  last.    Ice  with  any  good  icing.         Mrs.  Lou  Wilhoit. 

Watermelon  Cake. 

White  part — Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream 
of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water. 

Red  part — One  cup  red  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one- third  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  cream 
tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  one  cup  raisins.  Be  careful  to  keep  the 
red  part  around  the  tube  of  the  pan  and  the  white  around  the  edge.  It  re- 
quires two  persons  to  fill  the*  pan.  This  is  a  very  attractive  cake.  Flavor 
with  any  flavoring.  In  plaee  of  red  sugar  you  can  use  one  cup  granulated 
sugar  and  enough  red  fruit  coloring  to  color  a  pretty  red.  Ice  with  good 
white  icing.  Mrs.  Sade  Flanagon,  Fairmount, 


MEMORANDA. 


31 


Hickory-Nut  Custard  Cake. 

Cream  together  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one-half  pound  of  butter;  add 
five  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  pound  of  flour, 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  powder,  flavor  with  lemon  and  bake 
in  cake  pans.  Custard — Place  one  pint  of  milk  in  a  tin  pail  and  set  in 
boiling  water,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  milk, 
two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  chopped  hickory-nut  meats,  well 
mixed  together,  to  the  boiling  milk;  stir  and  put  between  the  layers  of  the 
cake  while  both  cake  and  custard  are  warm.         Helen  Rush  Cassell. 

Cream  Puffs. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  water,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  butter 
and  five  eggs.  Roil  the  butter  and  water  together  and  stir  in  the  flour  while 
boiling.  After  it  is  cool,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Put  a  la^ge  spoonful 
in  muffin  rings  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  The  Cream — Put 
over  the  fire  one  cup  of  milk,  add  not  quite  a  cup  of  sugar;  one  egg,  mixed 
with  three  teaspoonfuls  of  corn  starch  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
When  cool  add  vanilla  to  taste.  Boil  only  a  few  minutes.  Open  the  cakes 
and  fill  them  with  the  cream.  Mrs.  Dr.  Pierce. 

Devils-Food  Cake. 

Two  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-fourth  cake  of 
baker's  chocolate,  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water,  poured  over  the  chocolate; 
one-half  cup  of  sour  milk,  a  little  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
and  three  cups  of  flour.  Filling — One-half  cup  of  cream,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  one  bar  of  German  chocolate,  one-half  cup  of  butter.  Flavor  to 
taste.     Alta  Thornburgh,  Mrs.  John  Jackson,  Mrs.  0.  P.  Greenlee. 

Hickory-Nut  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one- 
half  cup  water,  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Mix  as  for  other  cake.  Stir  in  one  cup  hickory-nut  kernels  carefully  picked 
out.    A  few  raisins  or  currants  added  are  considered  an  improvement. 

Mrs.  Sophia  Keesling,  Mrs.  Will  Minnick. 


32 


\  THE  FAIR!  j 

|         MUNCIE,  INDIANA,  | 

|  THE  ANTHONY  BLOCK,             119-121  S.  WALNUT  ST.  § 

I MUNCIE'S  S 

^       Largest  Dealers  In....  ^ 

|       Dry  Goods,  | 

^       Carpets,  I 

|       Cloaks,  | 

|       Suits,  and  I 

|       Millinery.  | 

^  Agents  for  Standard  Patterns,  ^ 


33 


White  Loaf  Cake.  x 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sour  cream,  whites  of 
five  eggs,  one -fourth  teaspoonful  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
two  and  one-half  cups  flour  before  sifting. 

Mrs.  Lizzie  Yount,  Newcastle. 

Chocolate  Nut  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  \\  cups  of  sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  milk, 
three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  pint  nuts,  whites 
of  four  eggs  last.  This  part  to  be  cooked — one-half  cake  baker's  chocolate, 
one  cup  sugar,  one  spoonful  butter,  yolk  of  one  egg;  boil  with  a  little  milk 
and  stir  until  almost  hard.    Add  to  cake  before  flour. 

Mrs.  George  Quick,  Anderson. 

Pork  Cake. 

One  pint  boiling  water,  one  pound  fat  pork  chopped  fine,  free  of  skin, 
muscle  and  shreds,  let  stand  five  or  ten  minutes.  Stir  in  three  cups  brown 
sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  pound  stoned  raisins,  one  tablespoonful  each 
of  ground  cinnamon  and  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  eight  cups  flour, 
two  teaspoonfuls  soda.  Dissolve  soda  in  three  tablespoonfuls  warm  water 
and  beat  gradually.  After  stirring  twenty  minutes  pour  into  pans  and 
bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Osee  Shedron. 

Fruit  Cake. 

Cream  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter  with  two  cups  of  dark  brown 
sugar,  then  add  one  cup  of  milk,  three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  five  eggs.  Then  dredge  your 
fruit  in  flour  and  add  last  one  nutmeg,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound 
of  currants,  one-half  cup  of  citron,  candied  lemon  peel  and  orange  peel. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  two  hours. 

Mrs.  Charles  Ghering, 
Mrs.  John  Gibson,  Mrs.  W.  D.  Brown 

Jelly  Roll. 

One  cup  of  augar,  three  eggs,  small  lump  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Koyal  baking  powder.  Lemon  flavoring. 
Filling — One  cup  of  sugar,  white  of  one  egg  beaten  stiff. 

Mrs.  MattieA.  Young, 
Mrs.  Bertha  Sheriff. 


\ 


34 


Sponge  Cake. 

Three  eggs  beaten  one  minute,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sngir  beaten 
with  egg  for  five  minutes;  add  one  cup  of  flour  and  beat  one  minute,  one- 
half  cup  of  cold  water,  and  another  cup  of  flour  in  which  has  been  mixed 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  baking  powder;  beat  all  together  one  minute. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven.    (If  followed  exactly,  this  is  splendid.) 

Mrs.  Gc.  L.  Swain. 

White  Caket 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter — cream  and  add 
one  cup  of  milk  a  little  at  a  time,  add  two  cups  sifted  flour  and  the  whites 
of  five  eggs  beaten  lightly,  then  the  third  cup  of  flour  and  three  teaspoon- 
fuls of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  flavor  as  choice.  This  will  make  either  a 
layer  or  loaf  cake.  Mrs.  Sam  Bufkin, 

Mrs.  Swain,  Anderson. 

Orange  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  grated  rind  two  oranges,  squeeze 
juice  of  two  oranges  in  cup  then  fill  with  water,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls Royal  Baking  Powder,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Steele. 

Minnehaha  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  the  whites 
of  six  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder. 
Bake  in  layers.  Make  a  frosting  as  follows:  two  cups  granulated  sugar 
and  whites  of  two  eggs,  pour  five  or  six  teaspoonfuls  of  boiling  water  over 
sugar  and  let  boil  until  it  threads  when  poured  from  a  spoon;  pour  slowly 
over  the  beaten  whites  beating  until  cool.  Mix  with  the  icing  one  cup  of 
small  raisins  and  one  cup  of  English  walnuts  cut  the  size  of  the  raisins. 
Spread  between  layers  and  on  top  of  the  cake.     Mrs.  J.  W.  Farrell. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  well  mixed  with  three  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour;  beat  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one 
cup  of  butter  beat  together,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  add  all  together  and  bake 
in  jelly  pans,  put  together  with  icing.       Mrs.  Julia  Crittenberger. 

Mrs.  T.  E.  Mowrey. 


35 


Ribbon  Cake. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  four  cups  flour,  four 
eggs;  reserve  a  third  of  this  mixture  and  bake  the  rest  in  two  loaves  of  the 
same  size.  Add  to  the  one- third  reserved  one  cup  raisins,  one-fourth  pound 
citron,  one  cup  currants,  two  tablespoonfuls  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  each 
all  kinds  of  spices;  bake  in  a  tin  same  size  as  other  loaves.  Put  Ihe  three 
loaves  together  with  a  little  icing  or  currant  jelly,  placing  the  fruit  loaf  in 
the  middle.    Frost  the  top  and  sides.  Mrs.  Lola  Strickler, 

Mrs.  John  Cassell,  Anderson. 

Coffee  Cake. 

Beat  together  one  cup  of  butter  and  lard  and  one  cup  of  dark  brown 
sugar;  one  cup  Orleans  molasses,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  chop  one  cup  of 
seedless  raisins,  then  pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  let  stand  about  ten 
minutes  then  drain;  one  cup  strong  coffee,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one  nutmeg,  one  tea- 
spoonful soda  and  two  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water  over  it,  three  cups  of 
flour.  Mrs.  Sarah  Plessinger 

A  White  Delicate  Cake. 

Three  cups  sifted  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  whites  of  seven 
eggs,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two  heaping  teaspoon- 
fuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  teaspoonful  extract  vanilla  or  lemon.  Beat 
the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  to  it  the  milk  and  eggs  well  beaten 
then  add  the  extract.  Mix  with  this  very  slowly  three  cups  flour  in  which 
the  baking  powder  has  been  well  mixed.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  It  makes 
a  delicious  cake  for  jelly,  chocolate  or  cocoanut  layers.  If  the  latter  is  used 
grate  a  large  cocoanut  removing  the  brown  skin  first,  then  add  to  it  the 
beaten  white  of  one  egg  and  one  coffee  cup  of  fine  sugar,  stir  it  all  together 
and  spread  between  the  layers  of  cake,  icing  the  upper  layer.  This  receipt 
will  make  three  layers  of  cake  and  plate  of  small  frosted  cakes. 

Mrs.  Lin  Soott,  Marion, 
Mrs.  John  Pickard,  Marion. 

Poor  Man's  Cake. 

Whites  of  four  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup 
cold  water,  three  cups  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

— Selected. 


36 


YOU  KNOW  THIS  STORE. 


A  Store  that  has  a  reputation  for  STYLES  that  are  distinctive. 

QUALITIES  that  are  the  best:    PRICES  that  are  right. 

All  the  new  things  in  Dress-goods,  Silks,  Trimmings,  Ready-to-wear  Gar- 
ments, Domestics,  Hosiery;  Underwear,  Gloves  and  many  other  requi- 
sites for  Matron  and  Miss. 

Most  complete  line  of  CARPETS  in  the  county  laid  ready  to  walk  on  in 
your  homes  at  Middletown  at  the  very  lowest  prices. 

We  pay  your  railroad  fare  both  ways  on  purchase  of  $15  or  over. 


10th  and  Main  Sts 
ANDEKSON,  IND. 


Van  Pet  ten  &  Kern 


37 


White  Mountain  Cake, 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  stiff,  two  cups  flour,  one  cup  corn 
starch,  two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of 
lemon.  Minnie  Grose. 

Spice  Cake* 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  Orleans  molasses,  one-half  cup  butter,  one 
cup  cold  coffee,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  spice,  one  table- 
spoonful  cinnamon,  one  nutmeg,  one  cup  raisins,  flour  to  stiffen  right. 

Mrs.  Maude  Evans,  Muncie. 

Plain  Cake* 

One-half  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  flavoring;  mix  well  all  the  ingredients  to- 
gether, three  cups  flour.  Angie  Baker. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Take  the  well  beaten  whites  of  five  eggs  and  add  to  this  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  mix  well,  then  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
well  sifted  flour  with  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Last 
add  the  yolks  of  the  five  eggs  and  then  bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Joe  Erdman,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

,   Devils-Food  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  oue-fourth  cake 
of  baker's  chocolate,  one-half  cup  of  buttermilk,  one-half  cup  of  boiling 
coffee  or  water,  two  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  three  cups 
of  flour,  vanilla.  Filling — two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one- 
half  cup  of  cream,  vanilla.  Mrs.  C.  C.  Shedron. 

Coffee  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  Orleans  molasses,  one-half  cup  coffee,  one- 
half  cup  butter,  four  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  two  for  icing,  one 
pound  of  seeded  raisins  chopped,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  soda,  cinnamon, 
nutmeg,  cloves  and  allspice.  Add  sufficient  ''Gilt  Edge''  flour  to  stiffen. 
Bake  in  layers.  Margaretta  Daniels 


38 


German  Crisps. 

Sugar  two  cups,  butter  one  cup,  three  eggs,  the  rind  and  juice  of  one 
lemon,  flour.  Mix  thoroughly  adding  enough  flour  to  roll  out  very  thin. 
Cut  in  small  cakes,  place  in  the  pan  and  rub  the  tops  with  egg.  Sprinkle 
on  white  sugar.  Iona  Pierce. 

White  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour, 
whites  of  five  or  six  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  This  is 
easy  to  make  and  very  good.    Flavor  to  suit.  Addie  Greenlee. 

Lula  Smith,  Montpelier. 

Surprise  Cake. 

One  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
three  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  Lena  Crilley,  Fairmount,  Mrs,  Fannie  Schaeffer 

White  Cake. 

(To  be  used  with  any  kind  of  filling.) 
Two  scant  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  whites  of  six 
eggs,  one  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
flavor.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  unbeaten  and  beat  quite  a  good 
deal.  Add  a  little  milk  and  a  little  flour,  then  more  milk  and  so  on  until 
all  is  used.  Mrs.  Ed  Collier. 

Mrs.  Kittie  Yount. 

Marble  Chocolate  Cake. 

Make  a  batter  as  for  white  cake,  take  out  one  teacup  of  batter,  add  to 
it  five  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  moisten  with  milk  and  flavor 
with  vanilla.  Pour  a  layer  of  the  white  batter  into  the  baking  pan,  then 
drop  the  chodolate  batter  with  a  spoon  in  spots  and  spread  the  remainder 
of  the  white  batter  over  it.  This  can  be  baked  in  layers  or  loaf  cake.  If 
you  wish  some  pink  spots  with  it,  then  you  can  take  another  cup  of  the 
batter  and  color  it  with  any  good  fruit  coloring  and  drop  it  around  in  spots 
with  the  chocolate  and  white  batter.  A  very  pretty  cake.  Ice  with  white 
icing  with  bits  of  candied  cherries  dropped  on  the  icing.        H.  R.  C. 


39 


Ginger  Snaps* 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  lard,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  ginger,  one-half  cup 
water,  one  even  teaspoonful  soda,  make  a  rather  soft  dough. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Brown,  Mrs.  Jane  Sanders. 

Cookies, 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  cream,  two 
eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  lemon  and  add  suffi- 
cient flour  to  roll  thin.  Mrs.  Pauline  Brattain. 

Mrs.  Rebekah  Detrich. 

Doughnuts, 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  flour  to  thicken,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg.  Rub  the  batter  and  sugar  together  and 
add  the  beaten  eggs,  salt  and  milk.  Stir  the  powder  in  a  little  of  the  flour 
and  add  this  to  the  mixture,  together  with  the  dough  and  just  enough  flour 
to  admit  rolling  out.  The  softer  the  dough  is  made  the  lighter  and  more 
tender  will  be  the  doughnuts  when  cooked.  Fry  in  very  hot  fat  and  when 
cold  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  Anna  Conner. 

Mrs.  Emma  L.  Brown.    Mattie  Yates. 

Apple  Fritters. 

Make  a  batter  in  proportion  of  one  cup  sweet  milk  to  one  cup  flour,  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  Rojral  Baking  Powder,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one 
tablespoonful  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt;  heat  the  milk  a  little  more  than 
luke-warm,  add  slowly  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar,  then  add  flour  and 
whites  of  eggs.  Stir  all  together  and  throw  in  thin  slices  of  good  sour 
apples,  dipping  the  batter  up  over  them; drop  in  boiling  lard  in  large  spoon- 
fuls with  a  piece  of  apple  in  each  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Serve  with 
maple  syrup.  Mrs.  Sarah  Oakley,  Fairmount. 

Cookies, 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half 
caps  thick  sour  cream,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  sifted  with 
flour,  one  level  teaspoonful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  salt;  flavor  to  taste.  Oi  e- 
half  cup  grated  cocoanut  added  gives  a  nice  variety. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Wise. 


40 


^At/rs  MIL  MASS 


R.  H.  WILLIAMS, 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealer  In 

Boots,     Shoes,     Rubber  Goods, 
Leather  and  Shoe  Findings, 

ANDERSON,  INDIANA 

No.  821  Meridian  Street. 


To  any  one  that  speaks  of  this  ad.  we  will  give  them  10  per  cent,  off 
regular  prices.  Yours  for  the  church, 

Rufe  Williams  Si  Sons. 


The  New  Furniture  Store, 

On  Fifth  Street  Is  The  Place,., 

You  will  miss  it  if  you  miss  this. 

We  can  sell  you  any  thing  you  may  want  to  Furnish 
Your  Home. 

Our  Goods  Are  Right, 

Our  Prices  Are  Right, 

Our  Terms  Are  Bight, 

When  in  need  of  Furniture  come  and  see 


I.  N.  HARSHALL,  Hgr 


41 


Lemon  Cookies. 

One  pint  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  tbree  eggs,  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  two  lemons,  one  teaspoonful  soda  disolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  flour 
enough  to  roll.  Mrs.  Will  Elliott. 

Doughnuts. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  half  of  a 
nutmeg,  two  cups  of  sweet  milk.  Beat  sugar  and  butter,  then  add  eggs, 
beat  until  very  light,  then  add  milk  and  stir  thoroughly.  One  teaspoonful 
salt,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  sifted  in  with  the  flour.  Make  a 
soft  dough,  roll  half  inch  thick  and  fry  in  hot  lard.    Mrs.  Mollie  Cummins. 

Mrs.  Heoffer. 

Ginger  Cookies , 

Three  eggs  beaten  slightly,  two  cups  Orleans  sugar,  two  cups  Orleans 
molasses,  two  tablespoonfuls  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  ginger,  one  cup  sour 
milk,  one  cup  lard,  flour  to  thicken  to  a  stiff  batter.  Let  stand  over  night 
then  roll  out  and  bake.    (Splendid.)  Mrs.  Jennie  Rush. 

Lemon  Cookies. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  oil  of  lemon,  two  tablespoonfuls  pulverized  baking 
amonia,  put  the  amonia  into  one  pint  of  sweet,  milk  and  let  stand  until  you 
mix  two  and  one-half  cups  of  coffee  A  sugar  with  one  pint  of  butter  and 
lard  one-half  each,  beat  and  then  add  the  milk  and  amonia  and  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs;  make  a  dough  and  roll  thin.  Sift  granulated  sugar 
over  top.  Mrs.  C.  M.  Reed. 

Doughnuts. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup  buttermilk,  lump  of  lard  the  size 
of  an  egg,  nutmeg  and  a  pineh  of  salt,  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved 
in  the  buttermilk.       Mrs.  J.  R.  Weaver.    Mrs.  Otto  Trittschuh. 

Poor  Man's  Sugar  Cookies. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  lard,  three-fourths  of  a  cup 
of  cold  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  water,  half  a  nut- 
meg. Stir  all  together  until  too  stiff  to  stir  witli  a  spoon,  then  knead  with 
the  hands  until  right  to  roll  out  thin.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Be  sure 
and  try  it.  Mrs.  1.  N.  Marshall. 


42 


Doughnuts. 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  coffee  A  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk, 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  butter,  oue  teaspoonful  soda  put  in  the  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  lemon  extract,  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  thick  dough,  salt  to 
taste.  One  potato  peeled  and  put  in  the  lard  to  keep  from  browning  the 
dough — 50  or  55.  Mrs.  J,  D.  Rathfon,  Redkey. 

Yellow  Cookies, 

Yolks  of  five  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter  and 
lard  mixed,  two  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg  and  one  of  lemon,  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Emma  Mowrey. 

Cinnamon  Cookies. 

Two  eggs,  one  and  one- half  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  one- 
half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  three  teaspoon- 
fuls of  cinnamon,  flour  to  thicken.  Mrs.  L.  A.  Dykes. 

Cookies. 

One  quart  sour  cream,  two  eggs,  four  cups  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  soda,  one  tablespoonful  lemon, 
one-half  cup  butter.    Mix  with  flour  as  soft  as  can  be  rolled. 

Lola  Hutsonpillar. 

Doughnuts. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  butter  milk,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  soda,  one  tablespoonful  lard,  little  nut- 
meg, flour.  The  ginger  will  keep  from  soaking  up  the  lard  and  will  not 
taste  of  ginger.  Lou  Burner. 

Fruit  Cookies. 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter  with  one  cup  sugar,  add  two  eggs  which 
have  been  well  beaten  with  another  one-half  cup  sugar  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk.  Sift  together  one  cup  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoonful  ground  cloves  and  one  tea. 
spoonful  soda,  stir  into  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  two  cups  seedless 
raisins  and  enough  more  flour  to  make  the  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll  out 
about  one-fourth  inch  thick.    Bake  quickly.  Adda  Lamb, 

Mrs.  Willard  Sanders. 


43 


Ginger  Cookies. 

One  cup  sugar,,  one  cup  sorgham  molasses,  one  cup  of  lard,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  two  eggs,  about  one  cup 
hot  water  or  sour  milk,  flour:  to  make  soft  dough. 

L^^-  Jennie  McAlister.    Lizzie  Hougland. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Kemp,  Harrington,  Del. 

Doughnuts, 

One  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda, 
flour  to  mix  as  for  biscuits.    Have  the  lard  boiling  hot. 

Mrs.  Julia  Cook. 

Cookies*  irtr^ 

One  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sour  cream, 
one  teaspoonful  soda,  three  eggs,  flour  enough  for  soft  dough.  Cream 
sugar  and  butter,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten ;  next  cream  and  beat,  stir  in 
flour  as  long  as  you  can  handle  with  spoon,  then  turn  in  remainder  of  flour 
and  mix  as  soft  as  can  be  handled.  The}7  are  better  if  let  stand  two  hours 
after  mixing  before  baking.    Bake  in  quick  oven. 

AjjJL  dT*£  Mrs.  Bert  Chalfant, 

Mrs.  A.  Abernathy,  Marion. 

Doughnuts. 

Mix  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  with  one  quart  "Gilt 
Edge"  flour.  Beat  two  eggs  with  one  coffee  cup  of  sugar,  then  add  a  tea 
cupful  of  new  milk,  or  better,  half  milk  and  half  cream.  Mix  all  together, 
mould  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  If  milk  is  used  without  cream,  use  one  table- 
spoonful  melted  butter.  Alice  Pickering, 

Margaret  Daniels. 

Hermit's  Cookies* 

One  small  cup  butter,  or  lard  and  butter  mixed,  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  brown  sugar,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  teaspoonful  soda  mixed  in  the 
flour,  one  small  cup  of  any  good  mince  meat.  Make  quite  stiff  with  Hour; 
roll  thin,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  Splendid. 

Mrs.  William  Lindsay,  Fairmount. 


44 


MEMORANDA. 


45 


Cookies. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter  creamed,  two  eggs,  one 
cup  sweet  milk,  one-halt  nutmeg,  two  tablespoonfuls  lemon,  four  teaspoon- 
fuls Royal  Baking  Powder.    Mix  as  soft  as  can  be  handled. 

Mrs.  T.  A.  Barrett,  Mrs.  Kittie  Yount. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread* 

One  and  a  half  cups  molasses,  one-half  cup  butter  and  lard,  one-half 
cup  sourcmilk,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  soda, 
three  and  one-half  cups  flour.    Mix  and  bake.         Mrs.  Julia  Cook. 

Drop  Ginger  Cakes. 

One  cup  of  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  lard,  one  cup 
boiling  water,  five  cups  of  flour,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Miller,  Mrs.  Peter  McKenzie. 

Cookies. 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sour 
cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Mix  the  sugar,  butter  and  eggs  together 
before  adding  the  cream  and  soda.  Use  enough  flour  to  roll  well  and  any 
flavoring  desired.  Mrs.  A.  A.  VanMatre. 

Lemon  Snaps. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  lemon, 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  teaspoonful  of  sour  milk, 
flour  enough  to  make  very  stiff.    Roll  very  thin,  cut  out  and  bake  quick. 

Mrs.  Harvey  Presnall,  Fairmount. 

Walnut  Wafers. 

One-half  pound  brown  sugar,  one-half  pound  walnut  meats  slightly 
broken,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  baking  pow- 
der?  two  eggs.  Mix  all  together,  roll  and  cut  out  with  biscuit  cutter,  bake 
in  quick  oven.  Miss  Eena  Fritze. 

Good  Cookies. 

Three  eggs  well  beaten }  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  large  cup  of  fresh  lard,  one 
teaspoonful  of  lemon,  enough  flour  to  thicken.     Mrs.  Adlaide  Everett. 


46 


Crullers, 

One  cup  of  sweet  cream,  one  cup  of  sugar,  four  cups  of  flour,  three 
tablespoonfuis  of  melted  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two 
eggs,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  vanilla  if  desired.         Mrs.  Ida  Waldron. 

Lemon  Crackers. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  shortening, 
three  cents  worth  of  amonia  dissolved  in  warm  water,  five  cents  worth  of 
oil  of  lemon,  and  three  eggs.  Mix  the  dough  stiff.  Pound  it  and  roll  out 
thin,  cut  in  squares  and  pick  with  a  fork. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Lancaster,  Richmond. 


Nichol,  Makepeace  &  Co, 

HEALERS  IN 

Hardware,  Stoves,  Mantels, 

Factory  And  Mill  Supplies. 

ANDERSON,  INDIANA. 


47 


■ 


Confections. 


weets  to  the  sweet." — Shakespeare. 


Fondant  For  Candies. 

Take  two  pints  of  granulated  sugar,  one- third  teaspoonful  cream  of 
tartar  and  one  cup  water.  Cook  until  you  can  gather  it  up  into  a  very  soft 
ball  when  dropped  in  a  tin  cup  of  cold  water.  Cool  until  it  will  crinkle  on 
top  when  dish  is  tipped  to  one  side.  Stir  until  it  creams,  then  put  on 
dough  board  and  knead  with  the  hands.  When  making  nut,  cocoanut  or 
chocolate  put  them  in  before  stirring.  Mrs.  C.  B.  Wilcox. 

Chocolate  Carmels. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  chocolate  grated 
fine,  one  cup  boiled  milk,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  butter  the  size  of  a  large 
walnut.  Let  it  boil  slowly  and  pour  on  flat  tins  to  cool.  Mark  off  while 
warm.  Minnie  Moore. 

Cracker  Jack. 

Take  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard,  two  cups  soft  A  sugar,  one  cup 
Orleans  molasses,  one-fourth  pound  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  vinegar 
and  salt  to  taste.  Stir  all  together  until  dissolved  then  boil  until  syrup  will 
harden  in  water.    Pour  over  two  gallons  popped  corn.    Spread  out  to  cool. 

Mrs.  Fanny  Gebhart. 

Fudge. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk.  Boil  and  stir  constantly,  add 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  When  nearly  done  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
ground  chocolate.  Edna  Cooper. 


48 


THE  BANNER  STORE. 

ANDERSON,  INDIANA. 

EASTERN  INDIANA'S 

Greatest   Department  Store 

Is  filled  at  all  times  with  seasonable  merchandise,  bought 
direct  from  the  producing  cutters  in  large  quantities,  and 
sold  at  the  closest  possible  margin. 

Here  you  will  always  find 

the  Newest  Things... 

In  Carpets,  Curtains,  Suits,  Furs  and  Wraps,  Shoes, 
all  kinds  of  Dry  Goods  and  Notions,  Dainty  China,  and 
in  fact  everything  usually  found  in  a  big  first  class  Depart- 
ment Store. 

And  you  will  always  find  the  prices  right. 

Make  this  store  your  headquarters. 


Rowlings  &  Co( 


49 


Ice  Cream  Candy. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 
and  enough  water  to  cover  it.  Drop  in  water  and  if  hard,  pour  on  greased 
plates,  and  when  cool  pull.  Minnie  Moore. 

Butter  Scotch. 

Five  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  Orleans  molasses,  one 
cup  of  glucose,  one  pound  of  butter,  six  drops  oil  of  bergamot,  vanilla  or 
lemon  to  taste.  Mix  sugar,  butter,  glucose,  molasses  and  a  little  water 
together,  and  put  on  the  stove  and  allow  it  to  heat  slowly  and  stir.  Don't 
stir  while  boiling.  Add  bergamot  when  nearly  done.  Put  in  flavoring  be- 
fore pouring  out.    Whole  recipe  makes  two  hundred  sticks. 

Mrs,  Thos.  Tarkleson. 

Nut  Candy* 

One- half  pint  of  water,  one  pound  of  light-brown  sugar,  one  pint  of 
cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one  pound  of  English  walnuts.  Boil 
water  and  sugar  together  until  thick;  add  cream  and  let  boil  until  quite 
thick;  vanilla,  then  nuts  and  beat  well.  Pour  into  buttered  pans  and  cut 
when  cool.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Loyd. 

Caramels. 

Two  pounds  light-brown  sugar,  one  pint  of  new  milk,  one-fourth  cup 
butter  and  two  teaspoonf  uls  vanilla.  Place  in  granite  kettle  over  fire.  When 
it  begins  to  boil  stir  constantly  until  quite  stiff.  Try  in  cup  of  cold  water. 
After  lifting  from  the  fire  be  careful  not  to  stir.  Pour  in  buttered  pan, 
making  caramel  one-half  inch  thick.  When  cold  cut  in  squares  and  wrap 
in  oiled  paper.  If  chocolate  caramels  are  preferred,  add  one-half  cup  of 
grated  chocolate  before  mixture  begins  to  boil. 

Mrs.  Rose  A.  Pickering. 
Maple  Creams. 

Take  a  pint  of  pure  maple  syrup  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  small 
lump  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  let  boil  until  it  will  gather  in  small  ball 
when  tried  in  water.  Immediately  after  taking  from  fire  begin  beating  and 
and  continue  until  it  creams.  Mould  while  warm.  Delicious  with  shredded 
cocoanut  put  in  when  beginning  to  beat.  Maud  Miller. 


50 


French  Cream  Candy. 

One  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  cream,  one 
lablespoonful  of  water.  Cook  until  done.  Set  in  a  pan  of  water  to  cool. 
Beat  until  hard  enough  to  mould.  Minnie  Moore. 

Fudge, 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  one-fourth  cake 
of  Bakers  chocolate  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  After  being 
removed  from  stove,  beat  until  cool,  then  pour  out  into  buttered  platter. 

Gertrude  Smelser. 

Cracker  Jack. 

One-fourth  cup  of  molasses,  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar,  one-fourth  cup 
of  water  and  one-half  cup  of  glucose.  Boil  two  minutes,  then  add  one- 
fourth  cup  of  butter.    Boil  until  ready  to  burn,  then  pour  over  corn. 

Mrs.  Mattie  Crayen. 

Nut  Candy  or  Chocolate  Caramels. 

Three  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  pint  new  milk,  one-half  cup  butter, 
one-half  cake  Baker's  chocolate  or  nuts  instead  of  chocolate.  Boil  and  stir 
constantly  until  it  will  harden  in  cold  water.  Pour  in  pans  and  when  cool 
cut  in  squares  of  one  inch.  Mrs.  C.  B.  Wilcox. 

Sugared  Dates, 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar  and  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  new  milk  boiled 
together  in  a  granite  pan,  until,  when  tried  in  cold  water,  it  will  gather. 
Take  off  the  stove  and  beat  until  cool  enough  to  mould,  then  fill  the  seeded 
dates  and  roll  in  sugar.    Flavoring  may  be  used. 

Daisy  D.  Dutton. 


51 


CHEESE. 


I'd  rather  live  with  cheese  than  garlic." 


Butter-Milk  Cottage  Cheese. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  butter-milk  and  let  stand  until  it  settles.  Pour 
off  whey.  Put  the  curd  in  a  cloth  sack  and  drain.  Mix  with  cream  and  a 
little  salt.    Very  fine.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Cromer. 

Cheese  Straws. 

Two-thirds  ot  a  cup  of  grated  cheese,  yolk  of  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
a  little  nutmeg  and  pepper,  four  tablespoonfuls  rich  cream  or  four  table- 
spoonfuls  milk  and  one  of  butter.  Stir  milk  and  cheese  together,  then  dry 
and  brown  slightly  in  oven  after  rolling  up  and  cut  in  strips. 

Presbyterian  Cook  Book,  Hartford  City. 

Golden  Brick. 

Melt  down  in  a  granite  pan  a  half  pound  of  cheese.  Add  slowly  a  cup 
of  cream  or  rich  milk  and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Stir  all  until  creamy,  and 
then  break  on  top  five  eggs.  Cover  for  a  moment  until  the  whites  begin  to 
"set,"  then  beat  briskly  until  it  rises  in  a  foamy  mass.  Serve  on  hot 
buttered  toast  or  wafers.  It  is  also  good  with  shredded  wheat  biscuit. 

Mrs.  May  Daniel  Davis,  Rushville,  Ind. 

Bread  and  Cheese  Omelette. 

Soak  one-half  cup  of  bread  crumbs  in  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk 
until  reduced  to  a  soft  pulp.  Beat  five  eggs  very  light,  and  whip  into 
them  the  milk,  crumbs  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese.  Turn 
into  a  hot  frying  pan  in  which  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  has  been  melted, 
and  fry  to  a  delicate  brown.  This  Omelette  must  be  carefully  watched 
while  cooking,  as  the  bread  crumbs  render  it  more  likely  to  scorch. 

Mrs.  Sopha  Keesling. 


52 


Cheese  Fondu. 


One  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  fine  and  dry,  two  scant  cups  of  milk,  one- 
half  pound  of  grated  cheese,  three  eggs  whipped  light,  one  small  teaspoon- 
ful  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a  pinch  of  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  hot  water  stirred  in  the  milk.  Soak  crumbs  in  milk.  Stir  into  these 
the  eggs,  butter,  seasoning  and  lastly  cheese.  Butter  baking  dish.  Pour 
fondu  in  and  strew  a  few  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  in  rather  a  quick  oven 
until  delicately  brown  and  serve  at  once. 


Take  salted  wafers,  butter  them  on  one  side  and  sprinkle  thickly  with 
grated  cheese.  '  Place  in  a  dripping  pan  and  put  into  a  warm  oven  about 
fifteen  minutes.    Serve  with  meats  or  salads. 


Mrs.  Lillian  VanMatre. 


Cheese  Wafers. 


Mrs.  Lou  Williamson. 


M. HODSON, 


The  Harness  Man... 


Also  everything  Kept  in  a  first-class 
Harness  Store.  Lap  Robes,  Horse 
BlanKets,  Buggy  Whips,  Sweat  Pads, 
Riding  Saddles  and  Bridles.  My  specialty- 
is  maKing  harness  to  order.  Remember 
the  place  :  :  :  : 


No.  1  and  3,  W.  8th  St. 


ANDERSON. 


53 


i  . 

DESSERTS. 


J  have  within  my  pantry  good  store  of  all  that's  nice.'' 


Nectar  Ambrosia. 

Slice  enough  tart  apples  to  line  a  pudding  dish.  Cream  together  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar,  yolk  of  one  egg  and  butter  the  size  of  an  «gg  and  put 
over  the  apples.  Place  in  oven  until  the  apples  are  cooked ;  then  beac  the 
white  of  the  egg.  Add  a  little  sugar  and  spread  over  the  pudding.  Brown 
in  the  oven  a  few  minutes.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Burr. 

Banana  Fluff. 

One-half  pint  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  one-fourth  box  gelatine 
soaked  in  a  little  cold  water  and  dissolved,  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
four  bananas  whipped  up  light;  beat  the  whole  together  until  it  begins  to 
thicken,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  extract  and  pour  into  a  mould.  Serve 
cold  with  lady  fingers.  Mrs.  A.  S.  Fisher. 

Fruit  Gelatine. 

One  large  tablespoonful  of  Knox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  cold  water, 
let  stand  a  few  minutes  then  add  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  juice  and 
rind  of  one  lemon,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Strain  and  set  to  cool.  When 
cold,  add  fruit,  two  oranges,  one  ten-cent  can  of  pineapple,  one-half 
pound  of  grapes  and  nuts  to  suit.  This  makes  twelve  cups.         B.  S. 

Hamburg  Apples. 

Pare  and  core  large  tart  apples,  fill  the  cavities  with  quince  jelly  and 
sift  powdered  sugar  thickly  over  them.  Then  place  on  a  square  of  bread, 
moisten  well  with  quince  jelly  dissolved  in  water.  Cover  closely  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  apples  are  tender.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  D.  J.  Miller,  Eaton,  Ohio. 


54 


Wm,  Liebhardt.  J.  T.  Liebhardt. 

Middletown  Woolen  Mills  &  Steam  Dye  Works. 

^    Jt    &    Manufacturers  Of    &    &  & 

Blankets,  Skirtings,  Flannels  and  Yarns. 


Ladies'  and  Gentlemen's  garments  cleaned,  Dyed,  pressed 
and  repaired  at  small  cost.  Cleaned  by  the  New  American 
Process,  without  the  slighest  injury  to  the  goods.  Dyed  with 
the  latest  dye  stuffs  that  will  not  fade  or  rub  off.  Dry  cleaning 
a  specialty. 

Highest  cash  price  paid  for  wool. 

Middletown,  Ind.  Liebhardt  Bros. 


Gbas.  R.  Riley 

Agent  For 


FIRE,  LIGHTNING, 

TORNADO,  ACCIDENT, 

HEALTH,      STEAM  BOILER, 

LIABILITY  &  BANK  BURGLARY 

INSURANCE 


Best  Companies,  Best  Terms,  Best  Treatment. 


Rooms:  Masonic  Temple. 


Middletown,  Ind 


55 


Pineapple  Sherbet. 

Make  a  strong  lemonade,  strain,  add  one  can  of  shredded  pineapple 
and  freeze.  If  desired  add  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
when  about  half  frozen.  Mrs.  Eva  Truitt. 

Lemon  Cream* 

Mix  one  quart  of  cream  (can  use  part  milk,)  one  pint  of  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  three  lemons.    Freeze.  Selected. 

Gelatine. 

One-third  box  of  gelatine,  juice  of  two  or  three  lemons,  two  cups  of 
sugar  and  two  cups  of  water.  Dissolve  gelatine  with  the  water;  add  the 
*ugar  and  lemon  and  let  stand  until  it  begins  to  form  jelly,  then  whip  until 
white  and  stiff  enough  to  serve.  Mrs.  Anna  D.  Welsh. 

Gelatine. 

Four  cups  of  granulated  sugar  mixed  with  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  and  stir  in  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  let  boil  just  a  little.  Strain 
and  let  cool.  Then  strain  into  it  the  juice  of  four  oranges  and  one  lemon. 
Whites  of  two  beaten  eggs.  This  will  mak3  one  gallon. 

Mrs.  Dr.  F.  L.  Thornburg. 

American  Cream. 

Half  box  of  gelatine,  put  into  one  quart  of  good  milk.  Set  on  the 
stove  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Stir  one  cup  of  sugar  into  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs  (well  beaten).  Add  this  to  the  milk  and  let  it  cook  until  it  be- 
gins to  curdle.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  all  together.  Flavor 
with  vanilla.    Mould  in  cups  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Brock. 

Pineapple  Sherbet. 

Four  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  mixed 
with  sugar,  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  added  to  sugar  and  boil  just  a 
little.  Strain  and  let  cool.  Juice  of  two  lemons  and  one  can  of  pineapple. 
Strain,  coloring  if  desired,  and  whites  of  two  beaten  eggs  added  just  before 
freezing.    Will  make  one  gallon  and  serve  twenty-five  people. 

Olive  Mills. 


56 


Peach  Mousse. 

Press  twelve  very  ripe  peaches  through  a  coarse  sieve;  add  to  the  pulp 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  pulverized  sugar  to  suit,  then  add  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water;  add  pulp  to  one  pint  of 
whipped  cream,  set  in  ice  water  and  stir  until  thick.  Place  pieces  of  can- 
died peaches  in  bottom  of  mould,  then  a  layer  of  stale  maccaroon  crumbs, 
pour  in  peach  pulp  and  cover  tightly.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  four  hours. 

Mary  Carroll. 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange. 

One  and  one- half  pints  of  milk  in  double  boiler,  when  hot,  add  two 
ounces  grated  chocolate,  scant  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  English  walnuts 
(chopped  fine,)  three  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch  mixed  with  cold  milk  then 
add  to  the  hot  milk.  Stir  until  thick  and  smooth;  pour  into  individual 
moulds.    Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  May  Cassada. 

Wine  Jelly. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  sherry  wine,  one  cup  of  cold  water, 
one  package  of  gelatine,  juice  of  two  lemons,  grated  peel  of  one  lemon 
and  one  good  pinch  of  cinnamon.  Cook  gelatine  one  hour  in  cold  water. 
Add  sugar,  cinnamon,  lemon  and  boiling  water — stir  well.  Add  wine. 
When  all  is  dissolved,  strain  and  place  in  mould.  Set  in  cold  place  over 
night.  In  making  lemon  jelly,  use  lemon  juice  instead  of  wine. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Shoemaker,  Daleville,  Ind. 

Fruit  Dessert. 

One  pineapple  shredded,  four  bananas  sliced,  four  oranges  seeded 
strawberries  cut  in  two,  juice  of  one  lemon,  five  tablespoonfuls  fine  sugar. 
Set  on  ice  one  hour  and  serve.  Berxice  Emswiller. 

Lemon  Jelly  with  Fruit. 

Soak  one  box  of  Knox's  gelatine  in  one  pint  of  cold  water  for  two 
minutes.  Add  two  pints  of  boiling  water,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar 
and  stir  until  dissolved.  Add  juice  of  three  lemons,  strain  and  put  in 
moulds  or  one  vessel.  When  congealed,  serve  with  a  few  slices  of  banan- 
nas,  oranges,  English  walnuts  or  any  desired  fruits  or  nuts  in  each  dessert. 

Flo  Mowrey. 


57 


Hamburg  Cream, 

Yolks  of  five  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon,  cooked  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  until  thick.  Add  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  (mixing  in  lightly.)  Pour  into  a  dish  lined  with  lady 
fingers,  decorate  the  top  with  kisses  or  maccaroons. 

Mrs.  Nettie  Hollingsworth,  Fairmount. 

Fruit  Glace. 

Boil  one  pint  granulated  sugar  and  one  cup  of  water  uutil  brittle;  have 
fruit  peeled  and  divided  carefully,  dip  each  in  a  portion  of  the  syrup.  Set 
in  a  cool  place  to  dry.    Any  fruit  may  be  used.  Selected. 

Orange  Sherbet. 

Three  pints  of  water,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  juice  of  five 
oranges  and  two  lemons.  Boil  water  and  sugar  with  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  twenty  minutes.  When  cool  add  juice  and  freeze. 

Caroline  Batt. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 

One  quart  cranberries,  one  pint  water,  one  pint  sugar.  Cook  slowly 
twenty  minutes,  pour  in  wet  mould  and  set  away  to  cool.  Can  be  sliced 
when  cold.  Mrs.  Anna  Conner. 

Mousse. . 

Whip  one  pint  of  rich  thick  cream  and  add  enough  coffee  A  sugar  to 
sweeten  well.  Melt  a  cup  of  Baker's  chocolate  by  setting  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water.  To  this  add  enough  whipped  cream  to  mix  well.  When  cold  alter- 
nate the  brown  and  white  in  freezer  can,  making  a  marble  effect.  Pack 
this  can  in  a  pail  with  chopped  ice  covering  top  of  can.  If  cold,  do  not  use 
salt  with  ice  as  it  will  freeze  the  cream  too  hard.  Let  stand  about  four 
hours  before  using,  keepimg  well  packed. 

Daisy  Lambert. 

Chocolate  Custard. 

One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls 
grated  chocolate.  Mix  eggs,  sugar  and  chocolate  together  before  putting 
into  milk  which  must  be  hot.  Boil  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly. 
Pour  into  small  glasses  and  set  away  until  cool. 

Mrs.  Jessie  Teague,  Pendleton., 


53 


Golden  Cream. 

Into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  stir  the  beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs;  add  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour  which  have 
been  well  mixed  together;  when  boiled,  turn  into  a  dish  and  pour  over  it 
the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  mixed  with  six  tablespoonfuls 
powdered  sugar.  Set  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly,  use  vanilla  and  lemon 
flavoring.    Serve  cold. 

Cranberry  Frappe. 

Boil  one  quart  of  cranberries  in  one  pint  of  water  for  five  or  six 
minutes.  Strain  through  a  course  cheese-cloth.  Add  one  pint  of  sugar  and 
stir  and  boil  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  When  cold  add  the  strained 
juice  of  two  lemons.  Freeze  to  a  mush,  using  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt. 
Serve  in  glass  cups,  either  with  or  just  after  roast  turkey. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Dissolve  one-fourth  box  of  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  when  dis- 
solved, sweeten  to  taste  and  let  it  just  come  to  a  boil,  then  remove  from  fire 
and  cool.  When  it  begins  to  thicken,  whip.  Have  ready  one-half  pint  of 
cream  whipped,  also  whites  of  two  eggs  whipped  stiff.  Then  stir  all  to- 
gether and  flavor  wiih  vanilla.     Set  away  to  harden. 

Keesling  Cook  Book. 

Charlotte  Russe* 

One  quart  whipped  cream,  one- half  box  gelatine — colored  pink — dis- 
solved in  little  milk,  one  can  shredded  pineapple.  Do  not  mix  thoroughly 
the  effect  will  be  prettier.    Set  on  ice  to  mould.    Serve  over  lady  fingers. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Loyd. 


59 


EGGS. 


**y  hold  a  secret;  and  who  can  tell, 
JL  How  I  came  inside  this  little  shell?" 


Plain  Omelette. 

Four  fresh  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl  with  the  milk  and  whip  very  thor- 
oughly. Put  the  butter  in  pan  and  when  very  hot,  put  in  the  eggs.  Run  a 
thin  bladed  knife  under  the  bottom  to  loosen,  but  do  not  stir.  When  done, 
quickty  and  carefully  roll  the  eggs  over  and  oyer  until  all  rolled  up.  Turn 
out  on  a  hot  plate  and  serve. 

Egg  Pockets. 

Take  as  many  pieces  as  you  desire  of  bread  a  day  or  two  old.  Cut 
out  with  a  large  biseuit  cutter  and  toast.  Have  ready  as  many  eggs 
poached  as  you  have  pieces  of  toast.  Put  some  milk  on  stove  to  get  hot, 
then  spread  butter  on  toast  first  and  pour  hot  milk  which  has  been  salted, 
over  buttered  toast.  Put  an  egg  on  each  piece  and  put  buttered  toast  with 
buttered  side  down  over  the  egg  and  pour  milk  on  that  piece.  Put  all  on 
plates,  garnish  with  parseley  and  serve. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Morgan,  Alexandria,  Ind. 

Deviled  Eggs. 

Boil  eggs  hard,  remove  the  shells,  cut  each  egg  carefully  in  half  and 
take  out  the  yolk.  Put  the  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  a  small  lump  of  butter 
nnd  make  a  smooth  paste.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  prepared 
mustard.  Fill  each  half  of  the  whites  with  this  paste.  Little  bits  of  cooked 
meat  can  be  added  if  you  wish  and  improves  it.  Serve  on  a  nest  of  water- 
cress or  parsley.  Mrs.  Mattie  Wright,  Fairmount,  Ind. 


60 


The  Big  Four 

Livery  Barn... 

Operates  Transfer  Line  to  and  from  the  railroad 
station;  calls  for  and  delivers  passengers  any  place 
in  town:  cab  furnished  at  all  hours;  does  a  general 
Livery  business,  Good  rigs,  and  gentle  teams 
furnished.     Prices  reasonable.     Your  patronage 


solicited. 

w. 

R.  RAMSEY, 

.r  none  /  / , 

Ml  DDT  FTOWM 

F-  A.  Wlsehartp 

Drug  Store, 

Attorney  at  Law:-: 

Is  headquarters  for  Spices, 

Gives    Prompt  Atten- 
tion To  Business  Placed 
In  His  Hands.      :  : 

Pure   Drugs,  Chemicals, 

Perfumes,  Bric-a-brac, 

Stationery,   Jewelry,  Etc. 
Call  and  see  us. 

Office:  Tykle  Block.  Middletown. 

MILLER  BROS. 

61 


Eggs  With  Dried  Beef. 

One-fourth  pound  dried  beef,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  cup  milk, 
three  eggs.  Put  butter  in  pan,  add  the  beef,  shredded,  and  let  simmer  a 
few  minutes.  Beat  the  eggs,  mix  with  the  milk,  then  stir  in  the  pan  with 
the  beef.    Serve  as  soon  as  the  eggs  are  set. 

A  Nice  Way  to  Serve  Eggs. 

Butter  a  pie  pan  and  line  it  with  finely  minced  bread  crumbs.  Add 
bits  of  butter.  Break  four  or  five  eggs  on  the  crumbs.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  and  bake  a  few  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.    Very  nice. 

Mrs.  Olive  Mills. 

Egg  Cones. 

Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs.  Beat  the  whites,  seasoned 
with  salt,  to  a  stiff  froth.  Butter  gem  pans,  then  put  in  part  of  the  whites, 
drop  in  the  yolks  in  the  center  and  heap  the  rest  of  the  whites  on  top. 
Place  over  a  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  a  few 
minutes.  N.  M.  F. 

Stuffed  Eggs. 

Boil  hard  six  eggs,  open  and  remove  yolks.  Cream  yolks  with  two 
or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  milk  or  sour  cream,  add  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice,  salt  to  taste  and  one  finely  chopped  onion.  Beat  until  light  and  re- 
fill the  whites.  Mrs.  Jennie  Taylor,  Pendleton,  Ind. 

Toasted  Eggs. 

Butter  a  baking  pan  well,  sprinkle  well  with  bread  curmbs,  break  the 
the  eggs  over  the  crumbs  and  far  enough  apart  to  not  run  together,  set  on 
the  stove  long  enough  to  sear  the  bottom  of  the  eggs,  then  place  on  the 
shelf  of  very  hot  oven  for  just  a  minute.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve 
hot.  Olla  Davis. 

Poached  Eggs. 

Separate  white  from  yolk.  Beat  the  white  to  a  froth;  add  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  turn  into  a  pan  of  salted  boiling  water.  When  thoroughly  cooked, 
place  on  a  slice  of  buttered  toast  Drop  the  yolk  in  the  same  water;  cook 
three  minutes  and  place  it  unbroken  in  the  center  of  the  white.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Mrs.  Helen  Manlove. 

To  Keep  Eggs. 

One  pint  of  slacked  lime  and  one-half  pint  of  salt  to  one  gallon  of 
water.  Mrs  May  Cassada, 


62 


SCOTT  &  DYE, 

HATTERS  AND  MEN'S 
FURNISHERS. 

3  E.  NINTH  ST.  ANDERSON,  IND. 

FULL  MEAL  20c.  MERCHANTS  LUNCH  JOc. 

WITT'S  RESTAURANT, 

South  Side  Square, 
Anderson,  Indiana. 

Oyster  Stew,  New  York  Counts,  \  5c. 


Jlndmon  transfer  Co. 

Livery  and  Ttcd. 

Both  Phones,  Uo.  91.  Undersoil,  7nd. 

Nos.  119-121-123-125  East  Ninth  Street. 

jfasbionable  bailor... 

Gent's  FvirnisHings, 
Hats  and  Caps. 

1009  Meridian  St.,  ANDERSON,  IND. 


63 


ICES. 


lo  coldly  sweet.'' 


Sherbet 

Four  cups  granulated  sugar,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  mix  to- 
gether and  add  to  it  two  quarts  boiling  water  and  boil  just  a  little,  strain 
and  cool.  When  cold  add  juice  of  four  oranges  and  one  lemon.  The 
whites  of  two  beaten  eggs  added  just  before  freezing.  One-half  pint  of 
whipped  cream  can  be  used  instead  of  eggs.  Color  if  desired.  The  juice 
of  any  fruit  can  be  used  if  desired  and  less  water,  pineapple,  apricot  and 
cherry  being  very  fine.  This  amount  will  serve  fifteen  to  twenty  people, 
according  to  amount  served.  Mrs.  Milt  Gray,  Muncie. 

Mrs.  W.  L.  McCampbell. 

Ice  Cream, 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  two  eggs  beaten 
light  and  sugar  to  taste.  Cook.  When  cold,  stir  in  three  pints  of  cream 
and  strain.  Flavor  and  freeze.  Mrs.  H.  C.  Wise. 

Maple  Ice  Cream. 

Ono  quart  of  cream,  one  pint  of  molasses,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs. 
Let  the  molasses  (maple)  come  to  a  boil  and  when  cool  stir  in  the  eggs, 
then  strain.    Have  the  cream  whipped  and  stir  all  together  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  F.  P.  Miller. 

Pineapple  Sherbet. 

One  grated  pineapple,  three  oranges,  the  peel  of  one  grated,  one  and 
one-half  quarts  of  water  and  one  quart  of  sugar.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then 
strain.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  cold  water,  and  juice 
of  three  lemons.  Freeze  until  it  begins  to  ice  then  add  whites  of  three 
eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Mrs.  Henshaw,  Alexandria,  Ind. 


64 


We  Have  Prestage 


In  the  city  and  neighborhood  of 
Anderson  in  the  selling  of  Cloth- 
ing. Why!  Because  in  our  22 
years  of  dealing  with  the  public 
we  have  been  honest  and 
straightforward  and  this  envia- 
ble reputation  which  we  hold, 
we  intend  to  keep  for  all  time 
to  come. 


Men's  Suits  -  $8  to  $20 
Men's  Overcoats  -  $10  to  $30 
Boys'  Suits  &  Overcoats    $2  to  $6 


And  a  full  line  of  Men's  and  Boys'  Hats  and  Caps. 


Satisfaction 
Guaranteed  or 
Money  refunded. 


65 


Raspberry  Ice. 

To  one  quart  of  water  take  one  pint  of  sugar,  juice  of  three  lemons 
and  one  pint  of  raspberry  juice.  Boil*  sugar  and  water  then  add  other 
things  and  freeze.  Mrs.  A.  S.  Fisher. 

Apncot  Sherbet. 

One  quart  apricots,  one  lemon,  one-half  pound  sugar,  one  quart  of 
water.  Boil  sugar  and  water  five  minutes.  Press  apricots  through  seive 
add  to  syrup,  add  lemon  juice.  When  cold  freeze  same  as  ice  cream; 
then  add  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  froth. 

Mrs.  Gertrude  Sanders. 

Orange  and  Peach  Mousse. 

Rub  a  quart  of  yellow  canned  peaches  through  a  sieve.  Add  a  cup  of 
strained  orange  juice  to  two  cups  of  sugar  and  boil  until  it  makes  a  thick 
syrup;  then  add  to  the  peach  pulp  and  let  it  get  cold.  Whip  a  pint  of 
rich  cream  very  dry  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Add  a  little  sherry  or  vanilla 
to  the  cream  before  whipping  to  flavor  delicately.  S<  ir  the  cream  and  fruit 
together,  then  pack  it  in  ice  and  salt  and  set  in  a  cold  plaee  for  three  or 
four  hours.    Very  fine,  try  it. 

Mrs.  Nettie  Hollingsworth,  Fairmount,  Ind. 

Fruit  Maseidona. 

One-half  dozen  oranges,  one-half  dozen  lemons.  Make  as  lemonade 
and  strain  and  freeze.  When  frozen  ready  to  serve  add  chopped  pineapple, 
cherries,  grapes  or  any  fruit  in  season. 

Mrs.  Hannah  Moore,  McKeesport,  Pa. 

Lemon  Sherbet. 

Four  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  mixed  with 
the  sugar.  Two  quarts  of  boiling  water;  add  to  the  sugar  and  boil  just 
a  little.  Strain  and  let  cool  before  freezing.  Add  juice  of  five  lemons 
and  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  if  desired. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Carpenter,  Mrs.  F.  L.  Thornburg. 


66 


Frozen  Pudding. 

Three  eggs — beat  yolks  and  whites  separately,  one-half  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  one  teaspoonful  flavoring,  one  pint  cream  whipped  very  stiff. 
Mix  all  together  and  beat,  then  put  in  quart  tin  cans  and  pack  in  ice. 
Soak  one-half  box  Knox's  gelatine  in  one  pint  warm  water  until  dissolved ; 
then  add  one  pint  boiling  water,  two  cups  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons,  stir 
well  over  slow  fire  until  it  thickens,  strain  and  pour  into  a  dish.  When  it 
begins  to  jell  put  in  a  cup  of  any  kind  of  nuts  and  one  small  can  pineapple. 

Mrs.  John  Flanigan,  Fairmount. 

Dairy  Maid's  Ice  Cream. 

No.  1.  Put  in  double  boiler  one  quart  of  new  milk  and  one  large  cup 
of  pulverized  sugar.  Let  heat  to  the  boiling  point,  then  cool.  Whip  one 
pint  of  heavy  cream,  add  to  milk ;  flavor  to  taste  and  freeze. 

No.  2.  To  one  quart  of  new  milk  heated  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Let  cook  two 
minutes,  then  beat  smooth.  When  cold,  add  to  the  custard  one  pint  of 
heavy  whipped  cream.     Flavor  to  taste  and  freeze.  Excellent. 

Mrs.  Rose  A.  Pickering. 


HOTEL  ANDERSON. 

FIRST-CLASS  THROUGHOUT. 


JOE  HENNJNGS. 

ANDERSON.  PROPRIETOR. 

WATCHES,  CLOCKS,  SILVERWARE,  CUT  GLASS. 

DIAMONDS,  JEWELRY.  AND  OPTICAL  GOODS. 

Anderson's     HigK  Class 

Jewelers    (St  Opticians, 
D.  &  J.  ROSENBAUM. 


905  Meridian  St. 

J«te?ct  f^oor  to  Anderson  Banh. 


ANDERSON. 


(37 


MEATS. 


^^fiyith  baked  and  boiled  and  stewed  and  toasted, 
ff     And  fried  and  broiled  and  smoked  and  roasted, 
We  treat  the  town." 

— Salmagundi. 


Meats  and  Their  Accompaniments, 

With  roast  beef — grated  horseradish. 

Roast  pork — apple  sauce. 

Roast  Teal — tomatoes  and  mushroom  sauce. 

Roast  mutton — currant  jelly. 

Boiled  mutton — caper  sauce. 

Roast  lamb — mint  sauce. 

Roast  turkey — cranberry  sauce. 

Boiled  turkey — oyster  sauce.  ■ 

Boiled  fresh  mackerel — gooseberry  sauce. 

Boiled  blue  fish — white  and  cream  sauce. 

Boiled  shad — boiled  rice  or  salad. 

Fresh  salmon — green  peas  and  cream  sauce. 

Roast  goose — apple  sauce. 

For  Roast  Meats, 

Cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  water,  but  do  not  baste  until  the 
juices  have  cooked  out  into  the  water,  or  you  will  toughen  it  and  make  it 
less  rich.  Should  the  meat  be  cooked  without  a  rack,  see  that  it  is  very 
fat,  then  it  can  be  placed  in  the  pan  and  no  water  added  until  after  it  has 
commenced  baking,  but  it  requires  watching  to  keep  from  burning. 

Otj.a  Davis. 


68 


THE  ELEVATOR, 

We  Buy 

Wheat,  Corn,  Oats,  Rye,  Hay,  Straw » 
Clover  Seed,  or  anything  you  have  to  sell. 

We  Sell 

Feed,  Clover  Seed,  Timothy  Seed,  Blue 
Grass  Seed,  Orchard  Grass  Seed,  Plows, 
Harrows,  Cultivators,  Weeders,  Oilmeal, 
and  Pure  Buckwheat  Flour. 

Our  prices  are  always  right.  Call  and  see  us  and  we  will  satisfy  you, 

E.  K.  SOWASH,  Mgr.  J.  P.  SHOEMAKER. 


W.  A.  McNaughton  Co.,  MUNCIE 

Eastern  Indiana's  best  place  to  do  your  shopping. 
Stock  larger  and  more  varied.  Just  such  styles  as 
you  want  and  when  you  want  them.  Prices  lower 
than  ordinary.  Now  in  the  Johnson  block,  but  later 
will  occupy  THE  McNAUGHTON,  that  great  build- 
ing of  five  floors  and  basement,  now  in  course  of  con- 
struction, corner  of  Charles  and  Walnut  Sts.,  Muncie. 


Dry  Goods,  &  Cloaks,      Millinery,  a? 
House  Furnishings,  Carpets, 


69 


Roast  Turkey. 

Dress,  wash,  dry  with  a  clean  cloth,  rub  inside  with  salt  and  pepper -} 
stuff  with  dressing  made  of  stale  bread  soaked  in  cold  water  and  squeezed 
out,  salt,  pepper  and  sage  with  oysters  and  liquor,  or  chop  heart,  gizzard 
and  liver  and  put  in;  or  the  giblets  may  be  used  for  giblet  soup  or  giblet 
gravy.  Butter  the  turkey  all  over,  put  in  bake  pan  with  one  quart  of 
water;  make  a  biscuit  dough,  roll  out  and  spread  over  the  turkey  when  it 
has  baked  two  hours. 

Mrs.  Rosetta  Bates,  Poneha  Springs,  Colorado. 

Chicken  Chops. 

Boil  one  chicken  until  tender;  remove  from  stock,  take  out  bones  and 
grind  or  chop  the  meat  fine.  Take  one  pint  of  stock,  thickened  very  thick 
with  flour,  lump  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  rice  cooked  until  well  done  (in 
stock)  and  mix  chopped  meat,  thickened  stock  and  rice  all  together. 
Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Shape  chop  around  a  stick  of  un- 
cooked macaroni,  about  four  or  five  inches  long,  leaving  half  of  the  stick 
exposed.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in 
butter  with  very  little  lard  added.    This  amount  will  make  eighteen  chops. 

Mrs.  Charles  A.  Davis,  Jamestown,  Ohio. 

Veal  Loaf* 

Two  pounds  of  veal,  one-half  pound  salt  pork  chopped  fine,  one-half 
dozen  crackers  rolled  fine  and  moistened  with  one- half  cup  sweet  milk,  two 
eggs,  mix  all  together  and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  allspice,  grated  lemon 
peel  and  nutmeg.  Bake  a  little  over  an  hour,  basting  occasionally  with  a 
little  butter  and  water,  until  the  last  fifteen  minutes.  When  done  pour  off 
fat  and  let  cool.    It  is  better  to  make  the  day  before  using. 

Flo  Mowrey. 

» 

Pickled    Pig's  Feet. 

Clean,  boil  tender  and  when  done,  heat  vinegar  enough  to  cover.  Then, 
with  whole  grains  of  pepper,  cloves,  spice,  mace,  mustard,  capers  and  a 
little  salt,  pour  this  over  the  pig's  feet  and  allow  them  to  stand  twenty- 
four  hours  when  ready  to  use. 

Mrs.  Allie  Good,  Sulphur  Springs,  Ind. 


70 


Hamburg  Steak* 

One  and  one-half  pounds  steak,  one  pound  pork,  one  onion,  two  eggs, 
one-half  cup  cracker  crumbs.  Chop  meat  and  onion,  add  eggs,  salt  and 
pepper;  mix  well,  form  in  cakes  and  fry  till  brown  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  W.  (x.  Pierce,  Newcastle,  Ind. 

Baked  Chicken  Pie. 

Line  granite  pan  or  crock  with  dough  made  with  flour,  lard,  water  and 
one  teaspoouful  of  baking  powder  in  flour.  Put  layer  of  dough  then  of 
young  chicken  until  pan  is  nearly  full.  Season  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  put  in  pie  a  teaspoonfui  of  flour  and  a  little  water,  cover  the  top  with 
dough.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  nice  brown.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Sarah  Tarkleson. 

To  Boil  Ham. 

Wash  well  and  if  very  salty  soak  over  night.  Cook  fifteen  minutes  to 
every  pound.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  when  water  boils,  set  kettle  back 
and  allow  it  to  gently  simmer  for  one  hour.  Then  turn  off  water  and  add 
fresh  boiling  water.  To  every  ten  pounds  of  meat  add  one  cup  of  sugar  to 
the  second  water  and  let  it  boil  the  remainder  of  time.  Do  not  skim  until 
cold.    In  boiling  half  of  a  ham,  keep  cut  side  up. 

Mrs.  Anna  Conner. 

Breaded  Chicken. 

Prepare  3Toung  chickens  as  for  fricasee  by  cutting  them  into  pieces. 
Dip  each  piece  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  grated  bread  crumbs  or  rolled 
crackers;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  minced  parsley.  Place 
in  baking  pan,  and  put  on  the  top  of  each  piece  a  lump  of  butter,  add  one- 
half  cup  of  hot  water;  bake  slowly,  basting  often.  Into  the  pan  pour  one 
cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs.  Stir  it  well  until 
cooked  then  pour  it  over  the  chicken.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  F.  E,  Henshaw. 

Drop  Dumpling. 

One  egg,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  a  little  salt.  Flour  stiff  enough 
to  drop  off  of  spoon.     Baking  powder  to  the  amount  of  flour  used. 

Miss  Dipboye. 


I 


71 


Spiced  Beef. 

Take  four  or  five  pounds  of  leau  fresh  beef,  put  into  an  iron  or 
porcelain  kettle  and  cover  well  with  cold  water.  Set  on  the  back  of  the 
range  and  when  it  is  thoroughly  boiling,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper, 
a  few  blades  of  maee,  two  dozen  cloves,  and  the  same  of  allspice  whole. 
Let  it  just  simmer  slowly  until  it  is  all  in  shreds,  which  will  be  about  all 
day.  If  necessary  add  boiling  water  as  the  water  boils  away,  so  as  to  pre- 
vent burning.  Watch  closely.  When  done  pick  out  any  pieces  of  spice 
there  may  be  left,  and  turn  the  whole  into  a  plaiu  tin  mould  and  press 
hard.  Turn  out  upon  a  platter  when  perfectly  cold,  which  will  be  the 
following  day.    Garnish  with  slices  of  cold  egg,  lemon  and  parsley. 

Mrs.  Emma  F.  Lambert. 

Chicken  Pot-Pie. 

Make  a  good  dough  as  short  as  pie  crust  and  add  one- half  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder.  Boil  chicken  until  very  tender,  then  make  a  thickening 
same  as  for  gravy.  Roll  crust  tolerably  thin,  cut  in  squares  and  line  dish 
or  pan,  put  layer  of  chicken  and  small  pieces  of  butter,  then  layer  of  crust 
until  all  is  used.  Pour  gravy  over  all  and  bake  for  about  foi^-five  minutes 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven.    This  is  excellent. 

Mrs.  Will  Elliott. 

Veal  Loaf. 

Three  and  one-half  pounds  of  steak,  one  cup  of  rolled  crackers,  two 
eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one  tablespoonful 
of  salt  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  all  together  and  bake 
three  hours.  Set  the  pan  which  contains  the  loaf  inside  your  roaster, 
cover  tightly,  and  it. will  bake  much  nicer.  Mrs.  J.  T.  Kelly. 

Hash. 

Remove  all  surplus  fat  and  gristle  from  cold  roast  or  boiled  beef,  and 
chop  fine.  The  same  quantity  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  (chopped)  as  you  have 
meat,  and  one  onion  minced  very  fine.  Place  in  skillet  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Add  sufficient  water  to  cook,  and  pour  over  any  gravy 
that  may  have  been  left  from  the  roast,  or,  use  instead  a  lump  of  butter. 
While  the  hash  is  cooking,  toast  three  or  four  pieces  of  bread  and  place  in 
the  dish  intended  for  the  hash.  Just  before  taking  from  the  fire  dredge  in 
a  little  flour  and  pour  in  sufficient  milk  or  creitn  to  make  a  thin  gravy.  Let 
boil  up,  pour  over  the  toast  and  serve  hot.  Cold  beef  steak  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  roast  or  boiled  beef.  Cynthia  Paullin. 


72 


Chip  Beef  in  Cream- 
Take  thin  sliced  dried  beef,  pull  apart  in  small  pieces  and  allow  it  to 
stand  half  an  hour  in  warm  water.    Brown  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  a 
spider  of  hot  drippings  and  stir  in  chip  beef  with  a  pint  of  sweet  milk. 
Serve  with  toast. 

Ham  Patties* 

One  pint  of  ham,  which  has  been  previously  cooked,  mix  with  two 
parts  of  bread  crumbs,  wet  with  milk.  Put  in  gem  pans;  break  an  egg  over 
each;  sprinkle  the  top  thickly  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  until  browned 
over.    A  nice  breakfast  dish.  Olla  Davis. 

The  Cosmos  Pie. 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  rich  pastry.  Chop  fine  bits  of  left-over  meat;  put 
in  a  layer  of  meat,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  Irish  potatoes;  another  layer  of 
meat  and  another  layer  of  potatoes.  Boil  two  eggs  hard  and  slice  over  the 
top  of  this.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  butter.  Pour  in  a  little 
hot  water,  and  then  put  top  pastry  on  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Guype,  Alexandria,  Ind. 

Fried  Chicken. 

Take  a  large  spring  chicken  and  cut  into  pieces.  Put  in  a  granite  pan 
with  plenty  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  When  half  done,  dust  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  over  it  and  add  one  cup  of  good  cream  and  cook  until 
very  tender.  Mrs.  E.  C.  P. 

Meat  Cakes, 

Two  cups  of  finely  chopped  cooked  meat  or  chicken,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cracker  crumbs,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  small 
onion,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Chop  the  onion  very  fine,  beat  the  eggs 
lightly  without  separating,  melt  the  butter,  add  the  cracker  crumbs,  mix 
with  the  eggs,  meat  and  seasoning.  Make  into  flat  cakes  and  fry  in  butter 
or  drippings.  Mrs.  L.  0.  Miller. 

Calf's  Liver  with  Bacon. 

Slice  the  liver  thin,  scald,  drain,  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  in  flour  and 
fry  in  hot  drippings.  When  done,  pour  in  a  cup  of  water  and  let  it  come 
to  a  boil.    Serve  with  fried  bacon  on  each  slice. 


To 


Beef  Heart  Stuffed. 

Wash  the  heart  carefuilly  and  open  it  enough  to  remove  ventricles. 
Then  boil  it  three  hours,  leaving  only  enough  at  the  last  for  gravy.  When 
the  heart  is  tender,  cut  out  a  portion  of  the  middle  and  fill  with  the  follow- 
ing dressing: — Bread  crumbs  moistened,  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt; 
season  with  sage  or  minced  onion.  If  it  is  moistened  with  a  beaten  egg,  it 
will  stay  in  shape  better  when  slicing.  Put  the  heart  in  a  pan  in  the  oven 
with  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bake 
twenty  minutes.  Chop  the  piece  of  heart  fine,  stir  into  the  liquor  in  the 
pan,  and  thicken  slightly  with  browned  flour.  Serve  the  gravy  separately. 
This  dish  is  also  very  nice  served  cold  without  gravy.  Slice  thin  and 
garnish  with  sliced  lemon  or  parsley.  Any  kind  of  turkey  dressing  will 
answer  for  the  heart.  Miss  Rose  Ringo,  Eaton,  Ohio. 

Pressed  Chicken. 

Cut  up,  boil  very  tender,  chop  the  meat,  freed  from  skin,  bone  and 
gristle;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  sage,  onions  and  lemon  juice.  Mix  all 
well,  strain  some  of  the  chicken  broth  in,  press  in  a  mould  or  sew  up  in  a 
clean  cloth.  Slice  when  cold.  Very  nice  for  picMic  or  luncheon.  Any 
"left-over''  meats  can  be  used  m  this  way. 

Mrs.  Cyrena  Middleton. 
Hot  Veal  Loaf. 

One  pound  beef  and  one-third  pound  pork  chopped  fine;  add  one  chop- 
ped onion,  one-half  dozen  rolled  crackers,  salt,  pepper  and  two  eggs. 
Mould  and  bake  and  serve  with  a  hot  gravy  or  dressing. 

Mrs.  D.  J.  Miller,  Eaton,  Ohio. 

Meat  Pudding. 

Cook  hogs'  heads  until  tender  enough  for  the  meat  to  leave  the  bones. 
Pick  the  meat  from  the  bones,  chop  fine  and  season  well  with  pepper  and 
salt;  then  skim  the  grease  from  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled, 
and  thicken  with  corn  meal  until  the  consistency  of  mush,  season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  stir  in  the  chopped  meat,  then  pack  in  jars  and  when 
wanted  for  use  slice  and  roll  in  flour  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Windsor. 


74 


Edmund  Johns©!?, 


—    Dealer  In 

Furniture, 
Stoves* 
Garpets, 
And 


Sewing 


iH.  S.  Fisher 
j      &  Son. 

General  Blacksenithing, 

I  And  dealers  in  Agricultural 


Machines. 


Implements, 


ANDERSON, 


INDIANA.:     Practical  Horse-shoeing 


1002  and  1004  Meridian  St. 


A  Specialty. 


MDSSER,  The  MILLINER. 


When  You 
Are    In  Town 
Come  To  See 

CASSELL  BROS., 

DRUGGISTS. 
E.  Side  Square.  ANDERSON. 


Up-to-Date.  Low  Prices.  ^/j^V 

ANDERSON,  INDIANA.  ] 


75 


Chicken  Croquettes. 

Take  equal  parts  of  chicken  and  beef  chopped  very  fine;  add  a  little 
quantity  of  mashed  potatoes,  mix  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
mustard.  Put  a  cup  of  milk  in  a  pan  and  when  it  boils,  add  a  lump  of 
butter  as  large  as  an  egg.  Let  it  boil  up  thick  and  pour  over  the  meat. 
Put  a  bit  of  minced  onion  and  a  little  cracker  dust  or  bread  crumbs  in  it. 
Lastly,  beat  two  eggs  and  work  in  with  all.  Make  in  flat  balls  and  dip  in 
cracker  dust  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  again  in  crackers.  Fry  a  light  brown 
in  butter  and  lard  mixed.  Take  them  up  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  on 
blotting  paper  to  free  from  grease. 

Margaret  Dillon,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

Pot  Roast. 

Take  a  nice  piece  of  rump  of  beef  and  put  in  a  kettle  containing  a 
small  quantity  of  hot  suet  and  brown  quickly.  Add  a  quart  of  water  and 
one  quart  of  juice  from  canned  tomatoes.  Dice  three  red  carrotts  and  one 
onion;  when  meat  is  halfed  cooked  add  these  with  a*  spray  of  parsley. 
When  done  take  meat  out  and  lay  on  a  platter,  then  strain  out  the  diced 
carrots  and  onion  and  place  on  top  of  meat.  Thicken  the  gravy  left  and 
fill  in  around  meat  on  platter.  Mrs.  Maer,  Chicago t  111. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Cook  a  nice  fat  chicken  tender  and  remove  bones  if  you  like.  Make 
pastry  with  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Line  a  deep  bake  pan  with  dough.  Put  in 
a  layer  of  chicken,  sprinkle  of  flour,  salt,  bits  of  butter,  pepper  and  strips 
of  dough.  Proceed  until  all  the  chicken  is  used.  Moisten  with  chicken 
broth,  cover  with  crust  and  bake  in  oven  until  done.  Serve  with  gravy 
made  from  broth  and  you  will  find  it  delicious. 

Mrs.  Josiah  Cromer. 

Sweet  Breads. 

Soak  one  hour  in  salt  and  water,  boil  in  the  same  until  cooked.  Re- 
move skins  and  cut  in  slices  one-half  inch  thick  when  cool,  and  season  each 
with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  dip  in  egg  and  flour,  and  fry  in  very  hot  butter; 
take  up  and  keep  hot.  Add  a  little  flour  to  the  pan  and  when  brown,  add 
nutmeg  and  one  tablespoonful  each  of  vinegar  and  catsup.  Let  this  boil 
up  and  pour  over  the  sweet  breads.  Olla  Davis. 


76 


Beef  Steak  Stuffed. 

Take  a  tender  slice  of  round  steak  an  inch  thick,  remove  the  bone, 
trim  and  spread  with  stuffing,  made  of  one  half  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  one 
teaspoonful  of  summer  savory,  one  quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  salt 
spoonful  of  pepper,  a  tablespoon ful  of  butter  and  one  teacup  of  boiling 
water.  Spread  on  steak  then  roll  up  and  tie  with  a  string.  Have  ready  a 
dripping  pan  in  which  you  have  fried  two  slices  of  salted  pork.  Put  in  a 
cup  of  boiling  water,  a  salt  spoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  salt  spoonful  of 
pepper.  Cover  closely  and  cook  one-half  hour.  Serve  with  a  gravy  made 
from  the  liquor  in  pan,  a  lump  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  enough 
milk  to  thicken.  Mrs.  G.  L.  Swain. 

Veal  Loaf. 

Two  pounds  veal,  one-half  pound  pork  ground  fine,  three  eggs,  one 
cup  cracker  meal,  three  tablespoonfuls  sweet  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls 
melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  pulverized  sage,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt,  pepper  and  allspice.  Make  into  a  loaf.  Bake  two  hours,  baste  every 
ten  minutes.  Mrs.  Elmer  LaBoyteaux. 

Mrs.  Ella  Wisehart. 

Hamburg  Bake, 

Two  pounds  beef  and  one-half  pound  pork  chopped,  eight  crackers 
crumbed,  one  egg  beaten  well,  one-half  pint  milk.  Cover  with  water  and 
bake.  Mrs.  McCarty. 

Chicken  Pie* 

Two  chickens  jointed  small,  cook  tender,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter;  thicken  gravy  with  flour.  Make  crust  as  for  soda  biscuits,  line  sides 
of  pie-dish  with  crust  one  inch  thick,  then  fill  in  with  chicken  and  gravy, 
cover  with  crust  and  bake  half  hour.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Brock. 

Ham  Mousse. 

Soak  a  level  teaspoonful  of  granulated  gelatine  in  a  fourth  of  a  cup  of 
cold  water  and  dissolve  in  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  hot  chicken  broth. 
Strain  this  into  one  cupful  of  finely  chopped  ham,  boiled  and  seasoned  with 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Stand  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  stir  until  the 
mixture  begins  to  set,  then  fold  into  it  one  cup  of  whipped  cream,  turn  into 
chilled  baking  powder  cans  and  stand  in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  Serve  on 
lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise  and  garnish  with  olives  or  sliced  pickles. 
Serve  with  wafers  or  sandwiches. 

Mrs.  Altha  VanZant,  Newcastle,  Ind. 


77 


Beef  Loaf  with  Tomato  Sauce  ♦ 

One  pound  rare  beef  chopped  fine,  three  or  four  crackers  rolled;  add 
salt  and  pepper  and  one  egg  well  beaten.  Mix  thoroughly,  form  in  a  loaf 
and  turn  into  a  buttered  tin.  Rub  butter  over  it  and  pour  on  a  large  cup 
of  tomato  juice.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  basting  frequently  with 
the  tomato  juice.  Mrs.  W.  G.  Pierce,  Newcastle,  Ind. 

Beef  Dumplings* 

Pinch  of  salt,  one  egg,  one-half  teacup  of  sweet  milk  and  two  small 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Make  a  stiff  batter  and  drop  from  spoon 
into  a  kettle  of  boiling  beef.  Boil  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  without  re- 
moving the  cover.  Miss  Alice  Pickering. 

To  Cure  Meat. 

Three  ounces  of  pulverized  saltpeter,  two  quarts  of  salt,  one  pound  of 
brown  sugar.  Rub  the  meat  with  the  mixture  and  let  it  lay  nine  days,  then 
repeat  the  process.  Wash  and  dry  the  meat,  pepper,  hang  up  and  smoke. 
For  one  hundred  pounds.  Cynthia  Paullin. 

Garnish  for  Meat. 

A  nice  way  to  serve  onions  with  pork  roast :  Take  nice  large  onions, 
peal  and  slice  in  slices  about  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  roll  in  flour  and 
place  in  a  hot  frying  pan  in  which  there  is  a  generous  quantity  of  butter, 
lard,  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  it  fry  brown  on  both  sides.  Then  place  it  in 
the  oven  until  steamed  done,  and  just  before  time  to  serve,  take  out  and 
place  a  thin  slice  of  good  cheese  on  each  slice  of  the  onion  and  replace  in 
oven  until  cheese  is  melted,  and  then  place  around  roast  on  platter. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Painter. 


78 

MEMORANDA. 


v 


79 


OYSTERS  AND  FISH. 


44-mjpster,  I  marvel  how  the  fishes  live  in  the  sea;" 

J9(JL  "Why,  as  men  do  o'  land;  the  great  ones  eat  up  the  little 
ones." — Shakespeare. 


Steamed  Oysters. 

Select  large  oysters,  place  on  a  plate  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water; 
steam  about  twenty  minutes,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Serve 
on  hot  buttered  toast.  Mrs.  Anna  D.  Welsh. 

Salmon  in  Shells* 

Pour  oil  off  and  remove  from  can.  Pour  over  the  salmon  boiling  water 
enough  to  cover,  pour  off,  let  cool  and  pick  into  pieces.  Heat  one  pint  of 
milk  to  boiling,  thicken  very  thick  with  flour  and  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter.  Butter  little  pudding  cups  or  a  pan  and  put  a  layer  of  thick- 
ened milk  in  bottom  of  pan,  then  a  layer  of  salmon,  until  all  the  salmon  is 
used;  putting  thickening  on  top.  Sprinkle  a  few  fine  bread  crumbs  on  top 
and  brown  and  bake  fifteen  minutes.  Selected. 

Minced  Oysters* 

Chop  twelve  oysters  very  fine,  add  two  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  a  cup  of 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper.  Drop  this  batter  in  hot  fat  by 
the  tablespoonful,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown.  Remove  to  a  piece  of  brown 
paper  to  drain  off  the  grease.  Serve  hot.  Garnish  with  potato  chips. 
Excellent.  Mrs.  Lizzie  Parker,  Fairmount,  Ind. 

Escalloped  Salmon. 

Flake  salmon,  put  in  a  buttered  bake  pan,  first  bread  crumbs  or 
cracker  dust,  then  salmon,  then  a  layer  of  hard  boiled  eggs  and  mashed 
potatoes  if  you  have  them,  some  lemon  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  salt  and 
pepper;  repeat  the  layers,  crumbs  on  top,  with  enough  gravy  or  broth  to 
raoisteq,    Bake  fifteen  minutes,  Mrs,  0,  I),  Sanders, 


80 


B.  E.  Qoff  &  rui 

  Dealers  In   

Fresh  and  Salt  Meats,  Poultry, 

AND  ALL  MEAT  NOVELTIES. 


Our  lard  and  suet  are  especially  desirable  for  baking 
and  other  domestic  purposes. 
 Orders  carefully  filled,,  

West  Locust  St.  MIPDLETOWN,  IND. 


GEORGE  L.  SWAIN, 

ATTORNEY  AT  LAW. 

Prompt  attention  to 
Collections  and  Gen- 
eral Legal  Business. 

MIDDLETOWN,  IND. 


Hello! 
Hello! 

The  Middletown  Telephone  Co., 

For  Local  and  Long  Distance 
Service.  Reaches  all  near  by 
and  many  far  away  towns. 
Quick  Connections. 


81 


Salmon  Croquettes* 

Remove  bones  from  one  can  of  salmon  and  pick  it  into  little  bits  with 
a  fork.  Take  one-half  cup  of  cream,  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  egg,  one 
pint  of  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  the  cream  come  to  a 
boil,  add  the  beaten  egg,  butter,  seasoning,  salmon  and  bread  crumbs.  Let 
it  boii  one  minute  and  remove  from  fire.  When  cold  make  into  croquettes, 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  smoking  lard. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Tomkins. 

Little  Pigs  in  Blankets* 

Season  oysters  with  salt  and  pepper,  wrap  each  in  a  very  thin  slice  of 
bacon,  fasten  with  toothpick.  Drop  into  a  very  hot  pan  and  cook  just  long 
enough  to  crisp  the  bacon  taking  care  not  to  burn  it.  Serve  hot  on  small 
pieces  of  toast.  Mrs.  A.  S.  Fisher. 

Fish  to  be  Served  Cold* 

Take  a  nice  pickerel,  ^nd  cut  in  slices  about  one  inch  thick.  Whe^ 
the  following  boils  a  few  minutes,  put  the  fish  in  it:  Put  water  in  a  stew 
pan  with  lemon,  parsley,  a  little  garlic,  small  onion,  salt,  pepper  and  about 
a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  When  nearly  cool,  take  one  egg  well  beaten  and 
stir  in.  Let  stand  about  five  hours  before  using  and  the  gravy  will  look 
like  jelly.  Mrs.  Adolph  Levy. 

Salmon  Croquettes.  0 

Ten  cents  worth  of  salmon,  six  medium  sized  crackers  rolled  fine,  one 
egg  well  beaten,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Flavor  slightly  with  garlic.  Mould  in- 
to croquettes  and  fry  in  equal  parts  of  lard  and  butter  until  brown.  Serve 
hot.  Mrs.  Lin  Wilson,  Jonesboro,  Ind. 

Baked  White  Fish. 

Salt  and  pepper,  stuff  with  bread  crumbs,  a  little  butter  and  onion. 
Dredge  with  flour,  pour  in  a  little  water  and  bake  one  hour.  Serve  with 
egg  or  tomato  sauce.  Saratoga  chips,  shoe-string  and  Pariseene  potatoes 
are  often  served  on  same  plate  with  fish.  Mrs.  Rosetta  BaTES. 

Baked  Salmon. 

One  can  of  salmon,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  scant  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  little  salt  and  pepper  and  one  egg  beaten  light. 
Cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  thirty  minutes. 

Mavne  ^harjkey,  Eaton,  Ohio. 


82 


Oysters  Fried  in  Batter* 

Oysters.  Three  eggs  well  beaten,  three  tablespoonfuls  milk,  one 
tablespoonful  flour,  liquor  of  oysters,  salt,  one  tablespoonful  butter.  Make 
a  batter  of  the  beaten  eggs,  milk  and  flour,  seasoned  with  salt  and  liquor 
of  oysters.  Put  the  butter  into  the  frying  pan  and  when  hot  drop  the 
oysters  one  at  a  time  into  the  batter  filling  the  spoon  with  batter.  Drop 
them  into  the  hot  butter  and  fry.  Sallie  Fisher. 

Oyster  Stuffing. 

Two  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  of  b  utter,  one  table- 
spoonful of  chopped  parsley,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one -half  teaspoonful 
of  pepper  and  twenty-five  oysters.  Mrs.  Anna  Conner. 

Oyster  Fritters. 

Chop  one  pint  of  oysters,  take  one  pint  of  milk,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  one  small  teaspoonful  baking  powder  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin 
batter.  Stir  in  the  oysters,  drop  from  the  spoon  into  hot  lard  and  fry  a 
delicate  brown. 


83 


PASTRY. 


©h!  The  pies,  the  pies,  the  piping  hot  pies." 


Pie  Crust. 

To  three  cups  of  flour  take  one  cup  of  lard,  cold,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Rub 
thoroughly  the  shortening  into  the  flour.  Mix  together  with  one-half  tea 
cup  of  cold  water  or  enough  to  form  a  rather  stiff  dough.  Mix  as  little  as 
possible  after  the  water  is  added.    This  rule  is  for  two  pies. 

Good  Pie  Crust. 

Mix  thoroughly  together  one  quart  of  flour  and  one  teacupful  of  lard. 
Add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  teacupful  of  cold  water.  Little  knead- 
ing is  necessary.  Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Sanders,  Sr. 

Butter-Scotch  Pie. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  dark  brown  sugar,  one-half  pound  of 
butter,  three  cups  of  milk,  six  eggs,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  corn  starch  and  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla.  Put  milk,  sugar 
and  butter  on  the  stove  and  let  them  boil  until  like  molasses,  then  remove. 
Have  ready  the  yolks  beaten  light  with  flour  and  cornstarch.  Stir  in  with 
the  milk,  and  return  to  the  stove.  Cook  until  thick,  watching  closely  so  it 
does  not  burn.  When  partially  cooked,  add  vanilla.  Fill  a  baked  crust 
with  the  above,  and  put  on  top  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  one  cup 
of  powdered  sugar.    Brown  in  oven.  This  makes  three  pies.  Eat  cold. 

Mrs  Stevens,  Rushville,  Ind. 

Mock  Mince  Meat. 

Three  pints  water,  two  pints  sugar,  one-half  pint  vinegar, 
seventeen  rolled  crackers,  one  pound  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon) 
one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  allspice,  one-half  nutmeg,  six  ap- 
ples chopped  fine,  butter  size  of  an  egg.    Boil  fifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Steele. 


84 


Familiar  to  All  Up-to-Date  Housekeepers. 

RUNKEL  BROTHERS' 
CHOCOLATES  &  COCOAS. 

Try  these  receipts  as  well  as  others  contained  in  our  Package  Chocolate. 


TRY  THIS  RECIPE  No.  4,  AS  WELL  AS  THE  OTHERS 
CONTAINED  IN  OUR  PACKAGE  CHOCOLATE. 


The  Cake  of  Cakes 

is  the  chocolate  cake  if  properly  made.  It' 
no  cake  at  all  without  proper  chocolate- 
be  sure  you  use  Runkel  Brothers' 


Here  is  a  highly  recommended  recipe: 

Three  fourths  of  a  cupful  ot  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  four  eggs  (the  whites  of  two  are  kept  for  the 
chocolate  filling),  two  tablespoonfulsof  water,  one  coffeecup- 
ful  of  flour,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  which 
sift  well  into  the  flour.  Mix  the  butter  and  sugarj  add  the 
beaten  yolks,  then  the  flour  and  water,  and  lastly  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs.  The  following  is  for  the  filling  Boil 
one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream  and  half  a  cake  of  Runkel  Brother's  Blue 
Wrapper  Chocolate,  grated  until  it  will  stand  when 
poured  from  a  spoon  ;  then  pour  this  over  the  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs  ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  ;  beat  until  it  thick- 
ens ;  put  between  the  layers,  over  the  top  and  over  the  sides. 


There  is  such  a  thing  as  wholesome  pas- 
try-use pure  materials  in  cooking.  Runkel 
Brothers'  Chocolate  and  Cocoa  is  pure. 


The  Nutritive  Value  Of 


Runkel  Brothers' 


Breakfast 


Cocoa:-: 


As    a   beverage   has  been 
proved  by  scientists  and  is 
everywhere  recognized. 

This  receipt  permits  of  its  quick 
preparation: 

Into  a  tablespoonful  of  boiling  hot 
water  dissolve  a  small  teaspoonful 
of  Runkel  Krothers'  Cocoa  Pow- 
der, then  add  a  cup  of  boiling  hot 
milk,  and  boil  all  together  for  about 
five  minntes,  stirring  continually. 
When  served,  sugar  to  taste.  This 
is  for  one  cup.  for  larger  quantities 
follow  the  same  proportions.  Use 
only  earthen  or  porcelain  vessels, 
as  tin  spoils  the  flavor  of  cocoa. 

Enough  cocoa  for  two  cups  will 
be  sent  FREE  to  anyone  writing  us. 


RUNKEL  BROS.,  Sole  nigs. 


Novw  York, 


85 


Orange  Cream  Pie. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs  with  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  one  even  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  milk.  Pour  in- 
to one  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  let  cool ;  flavor  with  extract  of  orange  and 
pour  into  a  baked  crust;  beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  one-half 
cup  sugar,  spread  on  top  and  slightly  brown. 

Mrs.  Maynie  Sharkey,  Eaton,  Ohio. 

Cream  Pie. 

Mix  together  one-third  cup  of  flour  with  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar 
and  pinch  of  salt.  Add  two  cups  of  hot  milk  slowly;  cook  all  together 
several  minutes.  After  it  has  cooled  add  flavoring  to  taste.  Beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  dry  froth,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  pink  sugar 
and  spread  on  top  of  pie.  Julia  Sharp. 

Vinegar  Pie. 

For  two  pies:  One  and  one-half  cups  of  water,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three 
eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  teaspoonf ul  of  butter,  five  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  vinegar  and  three  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon.  Stir  all  together  and 
cook  until  thick.  Have  your  crust  baked  and  fill  this  in,  using  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  for  the  top.    Set  in  oven  and  let  them  brown  slightly. 

Ella  Shaffer. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. 

Take  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  and  slice  length-wise  into  pie  dish. 
Add  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  one  dessert  spoonful  of  butter  and  a 
generous  allowance  of  cinnamon.  Pour  over  enough  water  to  fill  the  pan. 
Bake  with  two  crusts  and  eat  while  warm.  Mrs.  Laura  Koontz. 

Mock  Mince  Meat. 

Three  pints  of  water,  two  pints  of  sugar,  one- half  pint  of  vinegar, 
one  pound  raisins,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cin- 
namon, cloves,  spice,  nutmeg,  twenty  rolled  crackers.    Mix  and  boil. 

Mrs.  Sopha  Keesling. 

■    "\  '  # 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

Three  cups  of  pumpkin,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  two  eggs,  four  cups  of  milk  and  one  cup  of  cream.  Sprinkle  cinna- 
mon on  top.    This  makes  four  pies.  Mrs.  W.  L.  Cummins. 


SO 


Pumpkin  Pie. 

Cook  pumpkin  dry,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  press  through  a 
sieve.  Then  add  three  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  allspice^ 
one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  the  half  of  a  nutmeg  and  a  small  amount  of 
ginger  and  salt;  then  stir  until  light  before  adding  the  milk.  Make  very 
thin.    This  will  make  four  pies,  and  is  very  good. 

Mrs.  I.  N.  Marshall. 

Cream  Pie* 

Put  one  pint  sweet  milk  and  one  cup  of  sugar  in  frying  pan  and  let, 
come  to  a  boil.  Then  dissolve  one  tablespoonful  corn  starch  (or  two  of 
flour)  in  a  little  milk  reserved  from  the  pint;  add  to  it  the  beaten  yolk  of 
one  egg.  Stir  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  when  thickened  and  smooth  re- 
move  and  add  a  little  salt  and  lemon  flavoring.  Pour  into  the  crust  that 
has  just  been  baked,  and  frost  with  the  white  of  one  egg  and  one  table- 
spoonful sugar.    Plaee  in  hot  oven  till  a  delicate  brown. 

Lelia  Sw anger. 

Chocolate  Pie  with  Whipped  Cream, 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  pint  sweet  milk,  two 
tablespoonfuls  Baker's  chocolate  dissolved  in  a  small  quantity  of  boiling 
water.  Stir  all  together  and  cook  until  thick.  Pour  into  baked  crust, 
when  cool  pour  over  top  one-half  pint  whipped  cream  sweetened  to  taste. 
This  makes  one  large  pie.  Mrs.  C.  C.  Druley.  0 

Strawberry  Short  Cake. 

Make  two  under  crusts  as  you  would  for  pies,  very  short  or  rich.  Put 
them  away  to  get  cold.  About  two  hours  before  tea,  take  two  boxes  of 
strawberries  and  sugar  well.  Let  them  stand  one  and  one- half  hours.  In 
the  meantime  take  one  pint  sweet  cream,  put  it  on  to  boil.  Take  a  tea- 
spoonful and  a  half  of  corn  starch,  mix  it  with  a  little  of  the  cold  cream ; 
stir  it  into  the  boiling  cream;  sweeten  to  taste  and  flavor  with  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla.  Stand  away  to  get  cold.  One-half  hour  before  tea  put  a  layer 
of  berries  on  one  of  the  crusts,  then  spread  it  thickly  with  the  .cream,  put 
the  other  crust  on  top,  then  put  remaining  berries  on  and  the  rest  of  the 
cream.  Let  stand  the  half  hour  for  the  cream  to  soak  through  the 
crust,  it  is  then  ready  for  the  table.  Mrs.  F.  G.  Kragle. 


ST 


Rhubarb  Pie. 

One  cup  of  chopped  rhubarb,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  chopped 
raisins,  juice  of  one  lemon,  butter  size  of  an  egg  and  one  egg.  Mix  all  to- 
gether and  bake  between  crusts.    This  will  make  two  pies. 

Mrs.  Andy  Hupp. 

Strawberry  Shortcake, 

Take  one  teacupful  of  sour  cream,  one  egg,  butter  size  of  a  walnut, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  scant  half  teaspoonful  of  soda;  make  into  a 
soft  sponge.  Boll  out,  spread  with  butter  and  make  into  three  or  four 
layers.  Then  fold  together,  roll  and  spread  with  butter,  and  then  fold  to- 
gether again.  Roll  the  size  of  pie  tins,  bake  and  put  the  fruit  in  between 
layers.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  set  in  the  stove  to  keep  warm  for  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes.    This  will  do  for  cherries  or  any  nice  fruit. 

Fannie  Shaffer,  Cross  Roads,  Ind, 

Mince  Meat. 

One  peck  pared  apples,  two  pounds  currants,  one  and  one-half  pounds 
of  raisins,  one-half  ounce  of  cloves,  one  ounce  cinnamon,  one-half  ounce  of 
ginger,  one-half  ounce  of  allspice,  one  nutmeg,  five  pounds  of  meat. 

Mrs.  Sarah  E.  Barrett. 

Cream  Pie. 

Two-thirds  cupfnl  of  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  lump 
of  butter  and  one  pint  of  cream.  Bake  slow.  Lou  Burner. 

Lemon  Pie. 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Stir  well  together  and  add 
three  cups  of  boiling  water  and  cook  until  thick.  Pour  in  crusts  previously 
baked.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  little  pulverized  sugar  and 
spread  on  top.    Set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Enough  for  three  pies. 

Crystal  Kelly. 

Corn  Starch  Pie. 

One  pint  milk,  yolk  of  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  corn  starch,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  butter.  Mix  starch  with  the  milk,  then  mix  all 
together.  Cook  in  a  pan  set  in  a  vessel  of  water.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 
Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  spread  on  when 
done.  Mrs.  Lulu  Brattain. 


ss 


Lemon  Pie, 

Take  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  and  one-fourth  cups 
of  A  sugar,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  cold  water,  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  of  boiling  water,  cook  these  together, 
stirring  carefully  till  thick.  This  will  fill  two  crusts,  previously  prepared. 
Then  beat  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
flavor  to  taste;  spread  evenly  on  the  pies,  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown 
lightly.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Hanby. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Carpenter. 

Chocolate  Pie. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs  (whites  for  top),  one  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful of  corn  starch,  one  teacupful  of  milk  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  choco- 
late. Mrs.  F.  P.  Miller. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

Two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  pumpkin,  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar, 
one  pint  good  rich  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  ginger,  pinch  of  salt;  other 
spices  to  suit  the  taste.  Elvira  McAlister. 

Lemon  Pie. 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
starch or  flour,  stired  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water.  Then  add  a  cupful  of 
boiling  water,  one  whole  egg  and  the  yolk  of  another,  a  small  piece  of 
butter  and  one  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  all  together  until  thick  and  then  place 
in  an  under  crust,  previously  baked.  Cover  with  the  beaten  white  of  an 
egg  to  which  add  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Place  in  oven  to  slightly 
brown.  Flo  Mowrey,  Mrs.  Lydia  Mitchell. 

Mince  Meat. 

Two  cups  chopped  apples  to  one  cup  of  chopped  meat,  one-half  cup  of 
chopped  suet,  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins.  Add  boiled  cider  or  vinegar  suf- 
ficient to  moisten.  Boil  the  cider  with  brown  sugar  enough  to  sweeten, 
and  spices  to  taste.    I  use  allspice,  cinnamon  and  cloves. 

Angeline  Baker. 

Green  Tomato  Pie. 

Slice  tomatoes %h\n  and  boil  in  vinegar  until  tender;  line  pie  plate. 
Sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
nutmeg;  fill  up  with  water. 4  Mrs.  Milt  Cook. 


80 


Cream  Pie, 

One  egg,  one  and  one-half  tables  poonfuls  of  corn  starch,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk  and  flavor  to  taste  with  vanilla.  Bake 
the  crust  and  cook  the  filling  on  the  stove.  Then  beat  the  white  of  an  egg 
with  sugar  and  put  on  top.  Bananas  sliced  and  laid  on  the  top  of  the 
pie  before  the  white  is  added,  makes  it  very  nice. 

Mock  Mince. 

Three  pints  of  water,  two  pints  of  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  vinegar,  ten 
cents  worth  of.  risins,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  tablespoonful  cinnamon, 
one  tablespoonful  of  spice,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  one-half 
tablespoonful' nutmeg,  eighteen  crackers  rolled  fine.  Mix  all  together  and 
boil  a  few  minutes.  Mrs.  H.  C.  Brown. 

■  •  -•  •  .  Mrs.  Annie  Wood. 

Chocolate  Pie. 

One-half  cup  of  sugor,  one  cup  of  milk,  piece  of  butter  size  of  a 
hickorynut,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  yolks  of 
two  eggs.  Stir  together  and  boil.  Add  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn  starch,  dissolved  in  milk  and  one-haif  teaspoonf  ul  of  vanilla.  Pour  in- 
to a  baked  crust  and  spread  with  frosting  made  of  whites  of  eggs. 

Mrs.  William  Day,  Cross  Roads. 

Mince  Meat. 

Four  pounds  meat,  three  pounds  suet,  three  pounds  raisins,  three 
pounds  currants,  three  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  pint  of  syrup,  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  eight  lemons,  two  ounces  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  ounce 
of  cloves  and  one  nutmeg.  Chop  meat,  suet  and  apples  fine,  add  salt  and 
pepper,  fruits,  spices  and  syrup;  ^lt  with  sweet  cider  until  juicy.  Heat 
all  together.     Can  add  jelly,  preserves,  oranges  or  figs,  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Sarah  Tarkleson. 

Green  tomato  Pie. 

Take  three  pounds  of  green  sliced  tomatoes,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one 
lemon  and  cook  all  together.  When  done,  pick  out  pieces  of  lemon  and 
fill  -crust,  i  This  will  make  four  pies.  *  This  is  nice  canned  for  winter  use. 

Sallie  Crou  tj£j  Hagerstown,  Md. 


90 


Chocolate  Pie. 

Three  cups  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate.  Cook 
until  thick.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  in  crust  and  put  the  beated  whites 
on  top  and  brown,  Lou  Burner,  Avis  Kelly. 

Fcr  Two  Ptmpkin  Pies. 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  teacupful  of  granulated  sugar,  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  small  pinch  of  ginger,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  spice 
and  one  and  one-half  tablespoonful  of  well  stewed  pumpkin.  Mix  all  to- 
gether and  beat  for  fi\re  minutes.  Then  acLl  one  and  one-half  piats  of 
sweet  milk  and  mix  thoroughly.  Fill  crust  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven.  After  pies  get  cold,  cover  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

Margaret  E.  Raper. 

Lemon  Custard  for  Two  Pies  and  Pie  Crust. 

Pie  crust. — Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  two  big  cups  of  flour,  a 
little  pinch  of  salt  and  mix  with  water  and  bake. 

For  the  custard. — One  large  lemon,  grate  the  yellow  part  but  not  the 
white,  then  use  the  juice  and  yellow  part.  Then  take  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  the 
yolks  of  three  well  beaten  eggs;  mix  all  together  with  one-half  pint  of  cold 
water  and  then  stir  into  one  and  one-half  pints  of  hot  water.  Let  boil  until 
it  thickens,  then  add  two  teaspoonf uls  butter.  When  cold  fill  crusts. 
Whites  ot  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  mix  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  spread  on  top  of  pie  and  brown  in  oven. 

Helen  R.  Cassell. 

Mince  Meat. 

Five  pounds  of  meat,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants, 
one  pound  of  citron,  one  pound  of  suet,  one  peck  of  apples  chopped  fine, 
allspice,  cloves,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  brandy  or  boiled  cider  as  much  as -you 
like.  Boil  one-half  hour.  Add  enough  water  to  cook. 

Mrs.  Hannah  Moore, 


01 


Southern  Peach  Pie* 

Quarter  and  peal  ripe  peaches.  Add  one  cup  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of 
fruit  and  cook  until  tender,  having  syrup  quite  thick.  Roll  biscuit  dough 
to  tha  size  of  a  saucer;  cover  one  half  with  peaches,  fold  oyer,  press  to- 
gether lightly  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  ,  Selected. 

Orange  Cream  Pie. 

Put  on  a  quart  of  milk  to  boil  (in  a  double  boiler.)  Take  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  one-half  tea  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn 
starch  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Mix  and  beat  well.  Add 
to  milk  and  let  thicken;  then  remove  from  stove  and  flavor  with  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  Elsinore's  extract  of  orange.  Fill  in  the  crust;  when  baked 
spread  over  the  top  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  and  sweetened  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  Cora  Goddard. 

Tarts* 

Make  a  rich  crust  as  for  pies.  Roll  very  thin  and  cut  with  a  biscuit 
cutter,  pricking  half  of  the  number  with  a  fork  to  keep  them  from  blister- 
ing. In  the  remaining  half,  cut  hole  in  center  with  your  thimble.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  Watch  closely,  as  1  hey  scorch  easily.  Prepare  for  table 
by  placing  jelly  on  pricked  crust,  and  placing  the  one  with  hole,  over  it. 

Hartford  City  Cook  Book. 


92 


THE  LEADER  STORE 


Grimes'  Old  Stand... 

Is  offering  this  season  the  best  values    in  Dry 
Goods,  Notions,  Cloaks  and  Suits,  Carpets  and 
*     Rugs,    Call  and  see  bow  far  your  dollars  go  at 
this  store. 

Anderson,  A.  Strauss,  Prop. 


Everett  Denany, 


Old  Umbrellas  repaired, 
recovered  and  made 
good  as  new.  We  make 
the  best  umbrella  on 
earth.  Price  $1.£5. 
Try  our  Special  School 
Umbrellas,  made  to  or- 
der, only  50  cents. 


710  Meridian  St. 


Anderson, 


EAST  SIDE 
RESTAURANT, 

MEALS, 
LUNCHES, 
SHORT  ORDERS, 
CIGARS,  And 
TOBACCOS. 

IRELAND  &  IRELAND, 

Anderson.  Proprietors. 


W.  D.  DIETZEN,  j& 

Wholesale  CgL  Retail  BaKer  and  Confectioner. 

i 

19  East  9tK  St.,  2323  Meridian  St.  Telephone:    Main  54-2. 

ANDERSON,    ^  INDIANA. 


03 


PUDDING. 


he  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating." 


Cherry  Pudding* 

lied  part — One  and  one-half  cups  of  cherry  juice  strained,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch.  Boil  the  juice  and  sugar  about  ten 
minutes,  add  corn  starch  and  let  boil  until  thick. 

Yellow  part' — One  and  one- half  cups  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch.  Let  milk  come  to  a  boil;  beat 
eggs,  sugar  and  corn  starch  together  with  little  milk  and  add.  Let  boil  un- 
til thick.  When  done  spread  a  layer  of  red  part  on  meat  platter  then  a 
layer  of  yellow  and  so  on  until  you  have  two  layers  of  each.  Beat  whites 
of  eggs  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar;  spread  on  top,  place 
in  oven  and  brown.  Let  stand  over  night,  cut  in  squares  and  serve  with 
cream.  Mrs.  Charles  Siiedron,  Jr.  Mrs.  Trotter. 

Plum  Pudding. 

One  breakfast  cup  each  of  flour,  grated  bread  crumbs,  suet  chopped 
finely,  brown  sugar,  stoned  raisins  and  currants,  two  ounces  of  candied  peel 
cut  small,  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spice,  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  a 
little  salt.  Mix  all  dry  ingredients  together  and  wet  with  one  egg  or  a  cup 
of  milk.  Place  in  a  buttered  basin  or  mould,  tie  down  carefully  and  put 
in  boiling  water.  Boil  for  five  or  six  hours.    Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

Mrs.  Griff  Morgan. 

Cottage  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  beat  sugar  and 
butter  together,  one  cup  sour  milk  with  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  it,  add 
one  pint  of  flour;  flavor  with  nutmeg,  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake.  1  use 
the  same  sauce  as  for  suet  pudding.  Cornelia  Cummins. 


94 


Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit  [pudding* 

Three  cups  of  Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit  rolled  fine,  one  cup  of  entire 
wheat  flour,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  two  apples 
chopped  fine,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  three-fourth  cup  of  molasses,  one  scant  tea- 
spoonful of  soda  and  two  cups  of  sweet  milk.  Mix  the  butter  and  Shredded 
Wheat  together;  add  flour.  Put  soda  in  molasses  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Then  put  in  the  milk.  Steam  three  hours.  Use  any  sauce  prefered. 

Mrs.  Luther  Young. 

Cream  Tapioca  Pudding. 

Soak  three  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  over  night;  in  the  morning  add 
this  to  one  quart  boiling  milk.  Boil  one-half  hour,  beat  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs  with  one  cup  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  cocoanut.  Boil  ten  minutes. 
Put  in  pudding  dish;  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  with  one  cup  of  sugar  to 
a  stiff  froth ;  pour  over  the  tapioca  and  sprinkle  with  cocoanut.  Brown  for 
five  minutes.  Mrs.  F.  P.  Miller. 

Fig  Pudding. 

One-half  cup  of  suet,  one-half  pound  of  figs,  three  eggs,  two  cups  of 
bread  crumbs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  milk,  one  cup  of  flour, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt.  Chop  the  figs  and 
suet.  Beat  the  eggs  light  without  separating.  Mix  all  the  ingredients 
thoroughly.    Turn  into  a  well  greased  mould,  cover  and  boil  three  hours 

Ella  Smelser. 

Suet  P  udding* 

One-half  cup  of  suet,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  of 
Orleans  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  cup  of  raisins  and  pinch  of  salt.  Steam  four  hours.  Sauce  for 
pudding — One  tablespoonf  ul  of  corn  starch,  one  pint  of  water,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  grated  lemon  and  juice  and  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla.  Mrs.  Sopha  Keesling. 

Suet  Pudding. 

One  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  one  cup  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  seeded 
raisins,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour?  one  teaspoonful 
soda;  steam  two  hours.  Mattie  A.  Young. 


95 


Black  Pudding. 

One  scant  cup  of  jam,  one-half  scant  cup  of  butter,  one  egg,  five 
tablespoonfuls  sour  cream,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  s'pice,  one  heaping  cup  flour.  Sauce  for 
Pudding — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  corn  starchy 
a  small  lump  of  butter.  Dissolve  corn  starch  with  cold  water,  then  pour 
two  pints  of  boiling  water  over  all,  and  cook  to  right  thickness.  Flavor 
with  lemon,  vanilla  or  both.  Stir  the  jam  into  the  well  beaten  egg.  After 
dissolving  the  soda  in  the  cream,  stir  all  together,  adding  the  spices  and 
flour.  If  desired  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  if  the  jam  is  not  sufficiently 
sweet,  add  enough  sugar  to  suit  taste.    Bake  about  thirty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Sweet. 

English  Plum  Pudding. 

One-half  po  und  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  one-half  pound  of  bread 
crumbs,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  one-fourth  pound  of 
citron,  one-half  pint  of  sweet  milk,  five  eggs,  one- half  nutmeg,  sugar  to 
taste  and  enough  flour  to  make  stiff.    Boil  or  steam  six  hours. 

Lemon  Pudding. 

Line  your  pudding  pan  with  good  short  biscuit  dough,  two  small 
grated  lemons,  rind  and  juice,  one  coffee  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs  beaten 
separately,  one  pint  of  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  stir  whites  of 
eggs  and  all  together  and  pour  on  the  pudding.    Bake  until  dough  is  done. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Carpenter. 

Cream  Tapioca  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a 
small  half  cup  of  tapioca.  In  the  morning  place  a  quart  of  milk  with  salt 
added  in  double  boiler,  beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  well  together,  add 
to  the  milk  and  boil  ten  minutes,  then  add  tapioca  and  boil  one-half  hour. 
Pour  the  whole  iu  a  pudding  dish ;  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  sugar;  spread  on  top  of  pudding  and  brown  delicately  in  the 
oven.  Mrs.  H.  M.  Stilwell. 


96 

C.  W.  EAST.  E.  E.  EAST. 


D.  C.  EAST,  &  SONS, 

Builders'   Materials,    Hardwaret  Iron, 

Glass,  Paints,  Oils,  Varnishes,  Horseshoes,  Etc* 

930  Main  Street.  Both  Phones,  No.  40. 

ANDERSON,  INDIANA. 


My  Specialty^^ 

Is  Wall  Paper  &,  Decorations. 

I  keep  posted  on  all  of  the  new  and  up  to  date  ideas.  So 
when  you  buy  of  me  you  are  sure  to  get  the  right  paper  for 
the  right  room.  "Hard  to  suit"  people  can  be  sure  to  find 
what  they  want  here.  - 

I  also  have  a  complete  line  of  Window  Shades,  Inside  Paints, 
Brushes,  and  the  best  line  of  Art  Goods  in  town.  Pictuie 
Frames  made  to  order,    Prices  reasonable. 

ED  ETHELL, 

ANDERSON.  The  Wall  Paper  Man. 


New  Location:  Cor.  JacKson  (IX  11th  Sts. 


97 


Suet  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  chopped  beef  suet,  one  cap  of  seeded  raisins,  one  cup  of 
soar  milk,  one  cap  of  sorgham  or  Orleans  molasses,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
soda,  one  teaspoonfal  of  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  the  batter  rather 
thick.  Boil  three  hours  in  a  padding  dish,  set  in  a  steamer.  Pudding 
sauce — One  teacup  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  Beat  together  and  add  three  gills  of  boiling  water.  Flavor  and 
color  with  cherry  or  berry  juice.  Allow  it  to  just  come  to  a  boil,  then  set 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  ready  for  use.  Cornelia  Cummins. 

Suet  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  chopped  suet,  one  cup  of  raisins  floured,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  soda,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  sour  milk,  flour  to  make  a  stiffer  batter  than  for  cake.  Steam  four 
hours  in  a  closed  vessel.  Pudding  sauce — Three  pints  of  hot  water,  three 
cups  of  sugar,  lump  of  butter  large  as  an  egg,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch,  nutmeg;  boil  until  clear  and  thick.  Is  best  served  warm.  This 
sauce  is  also  good  with  warm  sponge  cake.  Stir  soda  in  the  milk,  then  add 
suet,  sugar,  cinnamon,  cloves,  lastly  raisins  and  flour. 

Jennie  Dykes.  Alice  Pickering. 

Rice  Pudding. 

Put  half  a  teacup  of  rice  in  three  cups  of  milk  and  let  it  steam  until 
the  rice  is  soft.  Then  add  one  pint  of  milk,  half  cup  of  cream  or  a  little 
butter  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten  with  five  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar.  Set  on  the  stove,  stir  gently  until  boiling,  then  put  into  an  earthen 
dish.  Make  a  meringo  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  five  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  and  flavor  with  lemon.  Spread  over  the  pudding  and  brown  in  the 
oven.  Mrs.  Julia  Crittenberger. 

Suet  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  light  brown  sugar,  one- half  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of 
sour  milk,  one  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  three 
cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cloves,  pinch  of  salt  and  three  eggs  beaten  well.  Steam 
three  hours.  Serve  with  sauce.  Sauce — Two  cups  of  sugar,  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  flour,  lump  of  butter,  one  and  one- half  pints  of  boiling  water. 
Boil  three  minutes,  then  add  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  Lou  Burner. 


98 


Chocolate  Pudding. 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  four  tablespoonf  uls  of  grated  chocolate  (rub 
together  fine),  one- half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  four 
eggs,  reserve  whites  of  two  for  frosting  on  top  and  one  quart  of  sweet 
milk.  Can  whip  two  thirds  pint  of  cream  and  place  over  the  top.  Bake 
one  hour.    This  is  a  very  line  pudding.  Lizzie  Hougland. 

Suet  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  suet  chopped  very  fine,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
of  ginger,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
cloves.  Steam  two  or  more  hours.  Sauce  for  pudding — One  cup  of  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  butter  and  one  egg.  Beat  all  to  a  cream  and  steam  for 
fifteen  minutes.  J.  K. ,  Newcastle,  Ind. 

Rice  Pudding. 

Six  ounces  rice  (cooked,)  four  ounces  raisins  cut  fine,  four  ounces 
currants,  three  ounces  lemon  citron,  four  ounces  suet  chopped  fine,  one-half 
teaspoonful  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  four  ounces  sugar, 
three  eggs.    Stir  all  together  and  steam  three  hours. 

A  Friend,  Chu  Chong,  Cal.  , 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

One  pint  bread  crumbs,  one  quart  sweet  milk,  four  eggs  (whites  of  two 
for  top  of  pudding,)  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonf  uls  grated 
chocolate,  pinch  of  salt,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  one-half  hour  in  a  slow 
oven.    Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Selected. 

English  Plum  Pudding. 

One  pound  seeded  raisins,  one  pound  currants,  one-fourth  pound  of 
citron,  one  cup  suet  chopped,  three  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  brown  sugar, 
one  half  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  small  wine  glass  brandy, 
sour  milk  enough  for  stiff  batter,  spice  to  taste.  Mix  all  thoroughly. 
Steam  four  hours.  Mrs.  Geo.  E.  Tykle. 

Suet  Pudding. 

One  cwp  of  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  of  chopped  suet,  one  cup  of 
butter  milk,  one7and  one- half  cups  flour,  one  cup  raisins,  one  large  tea- 
spoonful of  soda.  Steam  four  hours.  To  be  eaten  with  a  hard  sauce  or 
dip,  either  will  do.  Mattie  Yates,  Richmond,  Ind, 


99 


Apple  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately, 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  shortening,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  in  enough  flour  to  make  pan-cake  batter.  Cut  three  tart  apples  in 
small  dice  and  sweeten  well.  Put  fruit  between  layers  of  batter  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  dip  of  rich  milk  sweetened  and  flavored  to 
taste.  Mrs.  Oran  CR03JER. 

Brown  Betty. 

Take  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  two  cups  sour  chopped  apples,  one-half 
cup  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  two  tablcspoonfuls  butter  cut  into 
small  bits.  Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  a  layer  of  chopped  apple  at  the 
bottom;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  a  few  bits  of  butter  and  cinnamon;  cover  with 
bread  crumbs,  then  more  apple;  proceed  in  this  way  until  the  dish  is  full, 
having  a  la}Ter  of  crumbs  on  top.  Cover,  closely,  and  steam  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven,  then  uncover  and  brown  quickly.  Eat 
warm  with  sugar  and  cream  or  brown  sauce.  Olla  Davis. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings. 

One  pint  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  cup  of  rich  butter-milk,  sugar  syrup, 
,  apples  and  nutmeg.  Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  well  together, 
and  when  thoroughly  mixed,  add  the  butter-milk  in  which  the  soda  has 
been  dissolved,  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Mould  the  dough  smooth.  Put  the 
apples  in  the  paste,  and  over  them  sprinkle  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Fold  and 
place  in  a  syrup  made  of  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of 
water.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  to  a  nice  brown.  Glaze  with  butter  when  ctene 
and  serve  with  rich  cream.  Rosa  D#  DeLay,  Lima,  Ind. 

Steamed  Pudding. 

One  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  one  cap  raisins,  one  cup  sweat  milk,  one- 
half  cup  molasses,  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder  sifted  into  enough  flour  to  make  as  thick  as  cake  dough.  Steam 
three  hours.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar  or  a  sauce  made  as  follows: — 
One  large  cup  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  water,  a  piece  of  butter  trtte  size  of  an 
egg,  a  little  nutmeg;  bring  to  a  boil.  One  teasp  oonful  of  corn  starch  beaten 
into  a  paste,  add  gradually  until  qf  the  consistency  of  cream,  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  Florrie  Gustin. 


100 


Pies,  Cakes  and  all  pastry  products.  Ask 


be  put  off  with  some  thing-  "equally  as 
good",  for  it  may  not  prove  so. 


#  0666  G66fce 
4    an&  Bakers,**  I 

^  Invariably  Call  For 

II  <3Ut  Bbae  jFlour. 

jfc         And  pronounce  it  the  best  for  Bread, 


^  '  r     7  1  ~  s$i 

your  grocer  for  "Gilt  Edge"  and  don't 


# 

#  Me  Bus... 

j&>  Wheat,  Corn,  and  other  grains,  and  are  jt^ 

4^  always  in  the  market  for  good  milling 

^fc  wheat,  for  which  we  pay  the  highest 

^  market  price*    We  do  a  general  milling 

^  business  and  keep  bread  wheat  in  store  ^ 

A  for  customers*  ^ 

#  # 

J.  G,  Daniels  &  Co.  f 

$$$$$$$ 


101 


Cottage  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two 
cups  of  flour,  three  eggs,  three  teaspooufuls  of  baking  powder  and  flavor 
with  vanilla.    Use  same  sauce  as  for  suet  pudding.  Selected. 

Chocolate  Bread  Pudding. 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate, 
rub  together  fine,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 
four  eggs,  reserve  whites  of  two  for  frosting  over  top,  and  one  quart  of 
sweet  milk.  Can  whip  two- thirds  pint  of  cream  and  place  over  top  if  de- 
sired. Bake  one  hour.  Bertha  Kraglf. 

Apple  Pudding. 

G-rease  a  deep  rouad  pan.  Peal  and  core  ssvca  or  eight  apples  and 
fill  the  core  holes  with  chopped  almoads,  sugxr  and  ciuuamoa.  Then  make 
a  sponge  dough  of  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  three  eggs  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Pour  this  over  the  apples  and  bake  in  oven 
very  slowl}7  as  it  takes  some  time  for  the  apples  to  cook.  Chopped  al- 
monds in  the  dough  adds  to  it  greatly.  Selected. 

Suet  Pudding, 

One  cup  each  of  suet,  sugar,  raisins  and  milk  or  coffee,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  a  little  nutmeg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one-half 
pint  of  bread  crumbs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Boil  three  hours.  Pudding  dip — One  cup  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Moisten 
with  a  little  cold  water  and  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Cook  and  if  too 
thick  add  more  water.  Mrs.  Iris  Fisher. 

Prune  Pudding. 

Scald  one  pound  of  French  prunes,  let  them  swell  in  the  hot  water  un- 
til soft,  drain  and  extract  the  stones.  Spread  on  a  dish  and  dredge  with 
flour;  take  a  gill  of  milk  from  a  quart,  stir  into  it  gradually  eight  table- 
spoonfuls  sifted  flour,  beat  six  eggs  very  light  and  stir#by  degrees  into  the 
remainder  of  quart  of  milk,  alternating  with  the  batter,  add  prunes  one  at 
a  time;  stir  the  whole  very  hard.  Boil  two  hours  and  serve  with  wine 
sauce  or  cream.  Keeslinc  Cook  Book,  Logan  sport,  Ind. 


102 


Plain  Cold  Hard  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  one-halt*  cup  of  batter  stirred  together 
until  cream}^  and  light,  add  flavoring  to  taste.  This  is  very  nice  flavored 
with  juice  of  strawberries  or  beat  into  it  a  cup  of  ripe  strawberries  and  the 
white  of  an  egg  beaten  stiff. 

Delicate  Indian  Pudding. 

One  quart  milk,  two  heaping  tabiespoonfuls  Indian  meal,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  f  one  tablespoon  ful  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon - 
ful  of  salt.  Boil  milk  in  double  boiler,  sprinkle  the  meal  into  it  stirring 
all  the  while,  cook  twelve  minutes.  Beat  together  the  eggs,  salt,  sugar 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ginger.  Stir  the  butter  into  the  meal  and  milk, 
pour  this  gradually  over  the  egg  mixture.  Bake  slowly  one  hour.  Serve 
with  sauce  of  heated  syrup  and  butter. 

Suet  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cap  of 
Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  currants,  three  cups  of 
flour  (twTo  of  Graham  and  one  of  white),  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  spice  to  taste.       Jennie  Mc  A  lister . 

Persimmon  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  dried  persimmons,  two  heaping  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs, 
four  cups  flour,  two  quarts  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  ground  spice, 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  soda  and  salt.  Soak  the  persimmons  in  water  over 
nio-ht,  strain  through  colander'.  Then  break  the  eggs  into  the  fruit,  stir 
in  the  flour  and  sugar,  add  spice,  salt  and  soda,  and  thin  down  with  the 
milk.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Fruit  Pudding. 

Beat  together  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  a  little  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  butter,  seven  crackers  rolled  fine,  one  teaspoonful  of  Knox's 
gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  one-half  cup  of  raisins  rolled  in  a  little 
flour  and  one  quart  of  milk.  Bake  in  a  pudding  dish  which  has  just  been 
well  greased.  Enough  for  twelve  nice  sized  squares. 

Lemon  Sauce — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  juice  and  rind  of  one 
lemon  grated  fine,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  corn 
starch  and  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Set  it  on  the  stove  and  allow  it  to 
come  to  a  boiling  point;  then  cool  and  serve  on  pudding. 

Mrs  Ella  Hodson,  Indianapolis,  Ind. 


103 


Dutch  Apple  Pudding* 

One  pint  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  four 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  four  sour  apples.  Mix  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder 
together  then  mix  in  the  butter.  Beat  the  eggs  until  light  and  add  the 
milk  to  them,  stir  them  quickly  and  thoroughly  into  the  flour  with  a  knife 
and  put  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  which  will  hold  a  quart.  Pare  and  core 
the  apples  and  cut  in  eighths;  lay  these  pieces  over  the  top  of  the  dough, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  twenty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Kemp,  Harrington,  Del. 

Pudding  Sauce*  , 

One  third  cup  butter,  one  egg,  one  lemon,  beat  well  together  in  one 
pint  boiling  water.  Mrs.  Aiman. 

Baked  Apples* 

Select  nice  large  apples,  remove  the  core  then  add  enough  water  to 
bake  them.  Dressing — Put  on  the  stove  one  pint  of  hot  water  in  which 
has  been  stirred  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  corn  starch,  a  little  salt,  flavoring  of  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Cook  until 
a  clear  syrup,  then  pour  over  the  apples  hot. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  YanTuyl. 
Plum  Pudding. 

One  pound  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  pound  suet,  one  half 
teaspoonful  cloves,  one  pound  raisins,  one  half  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one 
pound  currants,  one  fourth  pound  citron,  one  pound  sugar,  one  fourth 
pound  canned  orange  peel,  nine  eggs  beat  well  and  add  last.  Boil  three  or 
or  four  hours.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Loyd.     McKee*port,  Pa. 

Snow  Pudding. 

Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls 
of  corn  starch,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  boiling- 
water;  pour  into  the  whites  and  beat  all  together,  then  cook  until  thick. 

Custard  for  Pudding — Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful corn  starch,  sugar  to  sweeten.  Cook  until  thick,  pour  this  around 
the  pudding.  Mrs.  lloss  Longswortii,  Sommerset,  Ky. 


104 


*  Tapioca  Cream. 

One  cnp  of  tapioca,  one  quart  cold  water,  soak  all  night  or  three  hours, 
take  one  and  one  half  quarts  milk  and  put  on  tapioca  in  the  morning,  let 
come  to  a  boil,  then  add  beaten  yolk  of  four  eggs  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  large  tablespoonful  corn  starch,  Jet  all  boil  ten  minutes, 
then  add  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  one  half  cup  of  sugar 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon,  stir  the  whites  of  eggs  in  gently,  add  little 
bits  of  orange  or  candied  cherries  on  top  of  the  dishes,  also  a  spoonful  of 
whipped  cream.    Enough  for  sixteen  dessert  dishes. 

Mrs.  Isabella  Tilden.    Deedsville,  Ind. 

Hard  Sauce  for  Pudding. 

Cream  one  cup  pulverized  sugar,  one  third  cup  butter,  add  white  of 
one  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.    Flavor.  Mrs.  Cass  Taylor. 

Rice  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk  to  make  it  nice, 
Only  nine  teaspoonfuls  of  rice, 
Nine  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  too, 
Also  a  pinch  of  salt  mixed  through: 
Two  teaspoonfuls  of  any  flavor 
Of  which  you  want  the  dish  to  savor; 
I,  by  my  own  ideas  possessed 
Consider  lemon  is  the  best, 
Bake  for  two  hours-not  fast  or  slow, 
But  in  a  moderate  oven- so 
When  it  is  done  it  ought  to  seem, 
Thick  ss  the  richest  kind  of  cream. 

-Selected. 


105 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUP. 


A  eter  Piper  picked  a  peck  of  pickled  peppers." 


Higdom. 

Three  quarts  green  tomatoes,  one  quart  of  onions,  one  quart  chopped 
cabbage,  three  large  spoonfuls  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  white  mustard  seed, 
one  small  green  pepper  and  a  little  black  pepper.  Cut  the  tomatoes,  onions 
and  pepper  in  a  chopping  bowl.  Chop  quite  fine  then  put  into  a  preserving 
kettle  and  add  the  salt,  and  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  cold  water  to  cover. 
Boil  ten  minutes,  take  off  and  hang  in  a  cloth  for  two  hours,  then  put  into 
a  stone  jar  with  the  cabbage  and  cover  with  boiling  vinegar,  in  which  scald 
the  mustard  seed,  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
cinnamon,  allspice,  nutmeg,  ginger  and  cloves.      Mrs.  C.  K.  Moore. 

Chow  Chow. 

One  large  head  of  cabbage,  two  bunches  of  celery  and  six  onions  cut 
fine  and  salted  to  taste.  After  standing  twenty  four  hours,  drain,  and  cover 
with  vinegar  to  remain  twelve  hours,  then  drain  off  the  vinegar,  and  add 
four  red  peppers  cut  fine,  one  ounce  of  tumeric,  one  fourth  pound  of  mus- 
tard seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  allspice, 
one  teaspoonful  black  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  cloves  and  two  cups  brown 
sugar.     Mix  all  together  with  good  cider  vinegar  and  can. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Shoemaker.    Daleville,  Ind. 

Dressing  for  Mixed  Pickle. 

One  handful  white  mustard  seed,  one  handful  mixed  spices,  three  pints 
sugar,  one  handful  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Mix  and  cook  twenty  minutes. 
One  half  gallon  of  mixed  pickle  with  one  quart  of  this  prepared  mustard  is 
fine.  Mrs.  L.  A.  Neff. 


106 


.  Tomato  Pickle* 

One  peck  of  greej  tomatoes,  six  large  onions  and  one  teacup  of  salt. 
Let  stand  over  night,  next  day  drain  and  boii  in  one  quart  of  vinegar  and 
two  quarts  of  water  Boil  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  and  drain,  then  add 
four  quarts  o!  vinegar,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  two  tablespobnf uls  of 
allspice,  two  tablespoonfuls  cloves  and  two  tablespoonfuls  ginger.  Boil 
again  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Lancaster,  Richmond,  Ind.  i 

Cucumber  Pickles, 

One  hundred  green  cucumbers  two  inches  long  will  fill  four  quart  glass 
jars.  Wash  cucumbers  with  care,  put  in  a  jar  and  cover  with  salt,  then 
put  grape  leaves  over  the  top.  Pour  on  boiling  water  to  fill  jar,  let  stand 
twent}^-four  hours,  take  out  wipe  each  one  separately,  put  in  cans  and  put 
in  the  spices  as  you  fill  with  cucumbers.  Use  the  mixed  spices  with  horse 
radish  added.  To  a  hundred  small  cucumbers  use  about  three  quarts  of 
vinegar  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  or  more  if  preferred.  Heat  vinegar  and  sugar 
scalding  hot  and  fill  the  cans  and  seal.  Excellent. 

French  Tomato  Pickle  ♦ 

Slice  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes  and  six  large  onions,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  off  liquor  and  boil  ten 
minutes  in  two  quarts  of  water  and  one  of  vinegar.  Pour  off  and  put  into 
the  kettle  three  quarts  of  vinegar  and  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar.  Boil 
and  skim,  then  add  one  fourth  pound  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  each 
of  ground  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice,  nutmeg,  ginger,  and  red  pepper  cut 
fine.  Cook  all  together  ten  minutes.  Tie  the  allspice  and  cloves  in  bags. 
Fine.  Flo  Mowrey. 

Buck  and  Brake  Pickle* 

Three  large  heads  cabbage,  one  peck  green  tomatoes,  half  peck  ripe 
tomatoes,  one  dozen  red  and  green  peppers  all  chopped  fine  and  salted  over 
night.  In  the  morning  drain  the  water  from  it  and  put  it  in  the  kettle  with 
vinegar  enough  to  cover,  and  boil  three  hours.  Just  before  taking  from  the 
fire  add  one  teacup  grated  horse  radish,  one  tablespoonf  ul  celery  seed,  one 
of  mustard  and  two  pounds  of  sugar.    Leave  the  seeds  in  the  peppers. 

Mattie  Brattain.    New  Castle,  Ind. 


107 


Mixed  Pickle. 

One  tablespoonful  each  of  celery  seed,  ground  tumeric,  and  allspice 
whole.  Two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  half  ounce  stick  cinnamon,  half  cup 
ground  mustard,  four  cups  sugar,  three  quarts  green  tomatoes,  two  quarts 
cucumbers,  two  quarts  cauliflower,  one  quart  small  onions^  one  quart  vine- 
gar, five  or  six  stalks  celery.  Directions-Slice  tomatoes,  cucumbers  and 
cauliflower.  Let  tomatoes,  onions  and  cucumbers  stand  in  salt  water  over 
night,  after  which  put  vinegar,  spices,  sugar,  cauliflower  and  celery  with 
pickles  on  the  fire,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  mustard,  tumeric  and  flour 
dissolved  in  cold  vinegar.  Let  all  come  to  boiling  point  and  put  away  in 
jars.  Mrs.  May  Cassada. 

Mustard  Pickle. 

One  quart  chopped  cucumbers,  one  quart  chopped  onions,  two  large 
cauliflowers  and  two  green  peppers.  Let  all  stand  in  salt  water  over  night. 
In  the  morning  put  to  drain  and  prepare  one  gallon  of  cider  vinegar,  four 
cups  of  brown  sugar,  two  cups  flour,  one  ounce  of  tumeric  and  half  pound 
mustard.     Let  all  come  to  boil  and  add  pickles.  Excellent. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Painter. 

Mixed  Pickle. 

One  half  bushel  green  tomatoes,  one  gallon  white  onions.  Slice  toma- 
toes and  salt  each  layer  until  jar  is  full.  Slice  onions  in  separate  jar  and  fix 
same  as  tomatoes.  Let  stand  one  day  and  one  night.  Next  day  drain  to- 
matoes dry,  scald  the  onions  in  vinegar  and  drain  also.  Place  in  jar  one 
layer  of  tomatoes  spiced,  then  a  layer  of  onions,  until  jar  is  full.  Put  on 
top  two  pounds  brown  sugar  and  cover  with  vinegar.  Spices-five  cents 
worth  each  of  cinnamon  bark,  cloves,  allspice,  black  pepper,  white  mustard, 
red  pepper,  horse  radish  and  celery  seed.  Mrs.  John  Jackson. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle. 

Fifteen  pounds  sliced  green  tomatoes.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt,  let 
stand  over  night  and  drain.  Five  pounds  sugar,  one  quart  best  cider  vine- 
gar, one  ounce  cloves  and  two  ounces  cinnamon.  Add  the  tomatoes,  boil 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  skim  out  and  boil  syrup  until  thicker  if  preferred, 
but  it  is  not  necessary.     Very  good.  Mrs.  Fannie  Schaeffer. 


108 


TRY 

J.  C.  SHIELD'S 

BARGAIN  STORE, 

|  For  Scoop  Shovels,  Long  Handle 
Shovels,  Axes,  Ax  Handles,  Ham- 
;  mers,  Hatchets,  Nails  and  almost 
!  anything  in  the  hardware  line.  Also 
I  China  ware,  Granite,  Tin  and  Nickle 

anderson,  Indiana.  p]ate  ware.    Blankets,  Underwear, 

i 

B'B'B'B'B^'SS'S^'IrS'S'iE  Hosiery,  Ribbons,  Lace,  Thread  and 

j  Notions. 

We  buy  cheap  for  cash  and  sell 
cheap  lor  cash.  Come  and  see,  we 
can  do  }'Ou  good. 


L.  A.  LAWYER  &  CO., 

FASHIONABLE  " 

AND  UP-TO-DATE 

MILLINERY. 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE, 

Anderson's  Greatest  Bargain  Center,  is  on  the  corner  of  Ninth  and  Meridian, 
only  a  short  distance  from  the  Pan-Handle  station.  Remember  we  pay  your 
car  fare  both  ways.  Being  members  of  the  Merchants'  Association  we  pay 
your  car  fare  both  ways  from  Middletown,  if  you  purchase  goods  to  the 
amount  of  $15.00  or  over.  We  were  never  so  well  prepared  to  please  you  as 
now.  Larger  stocks  this  season  by  far,  than  ever  before.  Our  Dress  Goods 
Apartment  requires  twice  the  ordinary  space  needed  for  it.  Ready  to  Wear 
Garments— Fully  half  our  large  second  floor  is  tilled  with  Cloaks,  Capes, 
Jackets,  Skirts,  Purs  and  Children's  Wraps.  All  kinds.  All  prices.  Every 
thing  in  High  Grade  Merchandise  can  be  found  at  the  most  reasonable  price. 
When  in  Anderson,  you  have  a  personal  invitation  to  make  The  White*  House 
your  stopping  place.  You  are  always  welcome,  no  matter  whether  you  wish 
to  buy  or  not. 


A.  WESLOW 


109 


Mixed  Pickles. 

Cut  one  quart  of  cucumbers,  not  very  fine,  one  quart  of  small  cucum- 
bers, one  quart  of  small  onions,  one  quart  of  green  tomatoes,  two  heads  of 
cabbage,  four  sweet  peppers  and  one  bunch  celery.  Put  all  together  and 
cover  with  brine  made  of  one  gallon  of  water  and  one  small  cup  of  salt. 
Soak  for  four  hours.    Scald  this  in  the  brine  and  drain. 

Dressing  for  Mixed  Pickle — Six  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  mustard,  one 
tablespoonful  tumeric,  one  cup  flour,  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  two  pounds  of 
white  sugar.  When  boiled  pour  over  the  drained  pickles  and  mix  well. 
Bottle  for  winter  use.  Mrs.  Adelade  Everett. 

Pickled  Onions. 

One  gallon  small  white  onions.  Let  stand  in  salt  water  over  night. 
Three  quarts  of  weakened  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mixed  spices  and 
a  little  sugar.    Let  boil  and  add  the  onions  and  let  come  to  a  boil  again. 

Mrs.  Iris  Fisher. 

Bordeaux  Sauce. 

Two  gallons  chopped  cabbage,  one  gallon  green  tomatoes,  chopped, 
one  dozen  small  onions  chopped  with  ten  or  twelve  green  peppers.  Add 
one  ounce  of  whole  celery  seed,  one  half  pound  white  mustard  seed,  one 
gill  salt,  one  and  three  fourth  pounds  sugar,  one  gallon  vinegar.  Mix  and 
cook  all  together  about  twenty  minutes-not  longer. 

Mrs.  Walter  Shirey. 

Mixed  Pickle. 

One  quart  small  cucumbers,  one  quart  of  small  onions,  six  green  man- 
goes, one  quart  each  of  green  tomatoes,  green  beans  and  large  cucumbers. 
Chop  the  tomatoes,  mangoes,  beans  and  large  cucumbers.  Add  the  small 
cucumbers  and  onions,  and  itt  all  stand  in  sa^  brine  over  night.  Add  one 
fourth  pound  ground  mustard  to  one  quart  of  vinegar,  and  let  boil,  then  add 
to  the  above,  and  cook  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.       Mrs.  Adolph  Levy. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Wash  and  mash  one  bushel  of  tomatoes,  set  in  the  sun  twenty  four 
hours  fo  ferment.  Strain,  and  cook  with  one  fourth  of  a  peck,  of  onions 
placed  in  a  muslin  sack.  Add  two  teaspoonfuls  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and 
cinnamon,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  just  a  little  cayenne; 
one  pound  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar,  one  cup  salt,  boil  all  together  till  thick 
enough  for  use. 


110 


Sweet  Pickles. 

To  seven  pounds  of  fruit  add  three  pounds  sugar  and  one  pint  vinegar. 
Spice  to  taste. 

To  Pickle  Pears  Whole-Take  three  pounds  of  pears,  peel  them  and  cut 
out  the  ends,  leaving  the  stems  in.  Put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  with 
one  quart  of  water  and  boil  until  a  fork  will  go  through  them  easily,  then 
lay  them  out  on  a  dish.  Add  to  the  juice  one  and  a  half  pounds  sugar,  one 
pint  good  cider  vinegar,  some  stick  cinnamon,  whole  cloves  and 'race  ginger. 
Boil  together  five  minutes  and  skim.  Put  in  pears  and  boil  until  syrup 
thickens,  then  take  them  out  in  a  jar  and  after  the  syrup  has  boiled  a  little 
longer  pour  it  over  them.  If,  after  standing  a  few  days,  the  syrup  should 
become  thin,  take  it  off  and  boil  again.  I  have  made  pickles  in  this  way 
several  time^and  have  never  had  any  trouble  in  keeping  them  and  they  are 
very  nice.    In  handling  them  I  use  a  tooth  pick  instead  of  a  fork. 

M.    C.  NOFTSINGER. 

Tomato  Catsup, 

One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes.  Cut  up,  boil  until  tender  and  rub  through 
a  sieve.  Six  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  black  pepper,  one 
tablespoonful  cloves,  two  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  one  and  a  half  pints  of 
vinegar.    Cook  slowly  until  boiled  down  one  half.       Mrs.  Ghering. 

Old  Virginia  Catsup. 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  half  a  peck  of  onions,  three  ounces 
of  white  mustard  seed,  one  ounce  each  of  allspice  and  cloves,  half  a  pint  of 
mixed  mustard,  one  ounce  each  of  black  pepper  and  celery  seed,  and  one 
pound  of  brown  sugar.  Chop  the  tomatoes  and  onions,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  let  stand  three  hours,  drain  the  water  off,  put  in  kettle  with  the  other 
ingredients.    Cover  with  vin^ar  and  set  on  the  fire  to  boil  slowly  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Walter  Morgan.  Alexandria,  Ind. 

Cold  Tomato  Catsup. 

Peel  one  half  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes.  .  Cut  crosswise  and  remove  the 
seeds  with  the  point  of  a  sharp  knife.  Chop  fine  and  drain  off  all  the  juice. 
Add  one  and  one  half  pints  of  good  vinegar,  one  half  cup  of  salt,  one  cup 
.of  sugar,  two  large  horse  radish  roots  grated,  one  half  cup  of  mustard  seed, 
two  red  and  two  green  peppers,  one  ounce  celery  seed,  one  onion  chopped 
fine,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  two  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon.  This 
Will  keep  all  winter.  Mrs.  S.  F.  Guype.  Alexandria,  Ind. 


Ill 


Tomato  Catsup. 

One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  three  sc?ant  tablespoonf uls  salt,  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  eayeime'pepper,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  black  pepper,  one 
pint  brown  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar.-    Boil  three  hours. 

Mrs.  Jane  Sanders. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

One  peck  of  tomatoes,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  cloves,  cayenne  pepper,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  one  pint  each  of 
brown  sugar  and  vinegar.  Boil  down  to  a  gallon  and  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  black  pepper.  Mrs.  A.  S.  Miller. 


MEMORANDA. 


* 


113 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS. 


4 4"H /Jingle,  mingle,  mingle, 
Mm.  You  that  mingle  may." 


Chicken  Salad. 

Boil  a  full  grown  fowl  uutil  very  tender.  Cat  the  meat  into  small 
pieces,  and  mix  with  it  an  equal  amount  of  celery,  also  cut  into  small 
pieces.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Dressing  No.  1.  Pat  one  tablespooafal  of  batter  into  a  pan  and  let  it 
become  hot.  While  the  butter  is  heating,  beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  add 
one  teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Then  gradually  beat  in  one-half  cup  of  thick 
sour  cream  and  enough  vinegar  to  suit  taste.  Put  all  in  the  pan  with  the 
butter  and  let  it  slowly  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  ail  the  time.  When  thick 
let  it  cool,  and  about  half  an  hour  before  serving,  stir  half  of  it  into  the 
salad,  then  pour  the  remainder  over  the  top  before  sending  to  the  table. 

Dressing  No.  2.  Beat  slowly  into  two  eggs,  one  small  bottle  of  olive 
oil,  dash  of  salt,  pepper  and  mustard.  Set  on  ice  until  time  to  serve,  then 
add  a  little  cream.  Nelle  Fisher. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Boil  chicken  until  tender  and  remove  all  the  skin  and  gristle.  Mince 
the  meat  and  add  twice  as  much  celery  as  meat,  six  hard  boiled  eggs  chop- 
ped fine,  and  one  cup  of  chopped  almonds.  Pour  over  a  dressing  made  as 
follows  and  stir  thoroughly.  Garnish  with  celery-tops,  lettuce,  or  hard 
boiled  eggs.  Serve  cold.  Dressing-Yolks  of  six  eggs  beaten  with  one  tea-, 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  of  prepared  mustard  and  half  cup  of  vinegar.  Place 
in  double  boiler  and  cook  till  thick.  Add  one  half  cup  of  sour  cream,  a 
dash  of  lemon  juice  and  stir  until  cool.  Rich  cream  adds  greatly  to  salads 
if  oliye  oil  is  not  used.  Mrs.  Jjessie  Teagtte.    Pendleton,  Tad. 


114 


Salmon  Salad. 

Take  one  large  can  of  salmon,  and  before  opening  the  can  set  it  in  a 
vessel  of  water  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  When  cool  remove  bones  and  chop 
fine  "  Add  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  half  a  dozen  sweet  pickles,  chopped 
fine,  and  one  teaspoonful  celery  seed.  Dressing-One  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
Salt  to  taste.    Very  good.  Emily  Greenlee. 

Salmon  Salad. 

One  can  of  salmon,  five  bunches  of  celery,  (or  enough  for  five  cups.) 
Drain  off  the  liquor,  pick  out  the  bones  and  skin  from  the  salmon  and  chop 
the  celery  up  fine.  Dressing — Four  well  beaten  eggs,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  mustard,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour,  three  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one-third  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Make  into  a  paste 
with  water  in  a  good  sized  cup.  Fill  up  with  water  and  vinegar;  then  beat 
into  the  eggs  well.  Cook  until  thick.  Add  a  large  lump  of  butter  after 
cooking,  and  cream  enough  to  make  it  thin.       Mrs.  F.  A.  Wisehart. 

Salmon  Salad. 

One  can  of  salmon,  fifteen  crackers  rolled  fine,  five  good  sized  pickles, 
chopped  fine,  five  hard  boiied  eggs,  whites  chopped  fine,  and  yolks  rubbed 
fine  in  a  tablespooful  of  butter.    Salt,  pepper  and  vinegar  enough  to  mix. 

Lulu  Smith.    Montpelier,  Ind. 

Veal  Salad. 

Chop  a  quantity  of  veal,  celery  and  three  hard  boiled  eggs.  Dressing — 
One  and  one  half  tablespoonfuls  mustard,  eight  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  one 
tablespoonful  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  one  beaten  egg,  two 
tablespoonfuls  cream.    Cook  until  done.        Mrs.  J.  H.  Carpenter. 

Ham  Salad. 

Cut  cold  boiled  ham  into  dices  or  chop  it  coarsely.  For  every  cup  of 
ham  cut  half  a  cup  of  celery  in  small  pieces  and  a  large  pickle  or  several 
small  ones.  Mix  the  three  ingredients  well  together  and  set  away  iu  a  cool 
place  until  time  for  serving;  when  a  good  rich  salad  dressing  should  be 
added.    Half  a  cup  of  nuts  to  every  cup  of  ham  is  an  excellent  addition. 

Florrie  Gustin. 


115 


Oyster  Salad. 

Two  cans  of  cove  oysters,  ten  English  walnuts,  two  bunches  celery, 
eight  cucumber  pickles,  six  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine  and  mixed,  six 
rolled  crackers,  one  teaspoonf  ul  cayenne  pepper.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Make  a  dressing  of  two  eggs  beaten  well,  one  fourth  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sugar,  one  cup  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  prepared  mustard.  Boil  until 
thick  and  pour  over  the  mixture.  Mrs.  Orla  Bundy. 

Oyster  Salad. 

Four  cans  of  lunch  oysters,  two  bunches  of  celery,  one  small  cabbage, 
seven  or  eight  pickles  and  eight  hard  boiled  eggs,  Dressing — Beat  the 
yolks  of  eight  eggs,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  prepared  mus- 
tard, one-half  teacup  of  sweet  cream,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt  and  a  dash  of 
red  pepper.  Then  boil  together  one  and  one- half  cup  of  vinegar  and  one 
cup  of  butter.  When  boiling  pour  in  the  other  ingredients.  When  cold 
pour  over  the  salad  just  before  serving. 

Mrs.  George  Quick,  Anderson,  Ind. 

Waldorf  Salad. 

Peel  five  large  apples  and  cut  them  in  small  squares.  Cut  one-half 
cup  of  tender  celery  in  small  pieces.  One  cup  of  English  walnuts  chopped, 
but  not  fine.  Use  one-half  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar.  Dressing — Put  on  the  stove  one  egg  well  beaten,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  vinegar,  not  too  sour,  and  stir  until  thick.  Let  it  cool  and  then 
beat  together  the  dressing  and  one  cup  of  whipped  cream.  Pour  over  salad 
-and  serye  at  once,  as  apples  will  turn  dark.  Stir  salad  and  dressing  with  a 
fork.  Edith  Daniel,  Daleville,  Ind. 

Potato  Salad. 

One  quart  of  chopped  potatoes  and  two  large  onions.  Dressing — Two 
well  beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  prepared  mustard,  one-fourth  cup  of 
sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  cream  and 
one- half  cup  of  vinegar.    Mix  all  together  and  boil  until  thick  like  cream. 

Mrs.  Adelape  Everett. 


116 


•€€•€•€€•€•€•€€•€•€•€€•€€•€€•€•€•€•€•€•€•€3 


W.  N.  SHOWALTER 

MIDDLETOWN,  INDIANA. 


Furniture,  ^  UndertaKing, 
Sewing  Machines. 

We  have  everything  that  is  new  and  up-to-date. 
You  naturally  want  to  buy  where  you  can  do  the  best. 
By  paying  spot  cash  for  every  article  we  buy  and  hav- 
ing no  rent  to  pay,  we  are  enabled  to  sell  you  goods  as 
cheap  as  any  firm  in  the  state,  and  at  a  LESS  price 
than  many  of  our  competitors  can  possibly  offer  you. 
It  will  cost  you  nothing  to  see  us  and  get  our  prices. 

Goods  Sold  On   E,asy  Payments. 


Ok 

^ 

(fa 

(k 

tfa 
(k 
Ik 
<k 
(k 
(k 
(k 
(k 
(k 
(fa 
(k 
(k 
tk 
(k 


1k 
(k 
(k 


PHONES; 


Residence  5%    Office  €>. 


(k 


117 


Salad* 

Two  glasses  of  celery,  one  and  one-half  glasses  sour  apples,  one  and 
one- half  glasses  pecans;  whip  one  pint  of  cream  and  add  just  before  serving. 
This  must  be  kept  cOol.  Maynie  Sharkey. 

Potato  Salad. 

Boil  five  potatoes  and  when  cold  peel  and  chop  fine.  Use  half  a  head 
of  cabbage,  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  two  or  three  onions  and  salt  and  pepper. 
Dressing — One  teacup  of  vinegar,  yolk  of  one  egg  beaten,  one  teaspoonful 
of  mustard,  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed.  Boil 
until  thick,  let  cool,  pour  over  salad  and  slice  two  or  three  hard  boiled 
eggs  over  the  top.  Mrs.  Will  Dykes. 

Cheese  Salad. 

Season  cottage  cheese  well.  Shape  in  small  balls,  place  half  a  walnut 
on  top  of  each  and  serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  boiled  salad  dressing  or 
French  dressing.  ,  Emma  Lambert. 

Celery  Salad. 

Cut  rather  fine  two  bunches  of  celery,  add  one  pound  English  walnuts, 
six  hard  boiled  eggs  and  white  mustard  seed;  mix  with  a  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. Mrs.  D.  J.  Miller,  Eaton,  Ohio. 

Salad. 

One  small  head  of  cabbage,  three  boiled  potatoes,  one  small  onion, 
three  hard  boiled  eggs  and  celery  seed.  French  dressing — One  cup  of 
vinegar,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  yolk  of  one  egg,  lump  of  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ground  mustard.  Boil  until 
thick.  Pauline  Brattain. 

Cabbage  Salad.  * 

One  head  of  cabbage  chopped  fine,  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  salt  and 
pepper.  Dressing — Three  well  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  vinegar,  one  cup  of 
sweet  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  sugar  to  taste.  Put  vinegar 
in  a  sauce  pan  and  let  boil,  then  add  the  other  ingredients.  When  the 
mixture  becomes  like  custard,  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  cabbage. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Wallace. 


118 


Cabbage  Salad. 

Take  one  small  head  of  cabbage  and  cut  very  fine.  Add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  pepper  to  taste  and  one  teaspoonf ul  of  celery  seed.  Roll 
twelve  crackers  very  fine,  sprinkle  over  the  cabbage,  and  slice  five  hard 
boiled  eggs  on  top  of  the  rolled  crackers  For  the  dressing  take  one-half 
cup  of  sugar  and  one  egg  beaten  together;  then  add  one  half  cup  of  rich 
sweet  cream,  a  small  lump  of  butter  and  one-half  cup  of  strong  cider 
vinegar.  Stir  well  and  let  it  boil  two  or  three  minutes^  Pour  over  cabbage 
while  hot.  Mrs.  Mollie  Cummins. 


Apple  Salad. 

Dice  a  dozen  large  eating  apples,  an  equal  portion  of  celeiy  and 
sprinkle  with  salt.  Make  the  following  mayonnaise — Into  the  3Tolks  of  four 
eggs,  stir  in  gradually  until  well  mixed,  three-fourths  of  a  half  pint  bottle 
of  antimina  (imported)  olive  oil.  Add  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt  and  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  pepper.  To  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  add  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  dry  mustard.  Then  mix  all  together  well,  and  put  over  fruit 
just  before  serving.  It  is  veiy  necessary  that  the  eggs  and  oils  be  kept  on 
ice  until  just  before  using,  and  that  the  dressing  be  stirred  with  the  bowl 
of  the  spoon  and  not  beaten.  Shrimp  salad  may  be  made  in  a  similar  way. 
Drain  the  shrimp  carefully  and  put  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with  the 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Blanche  Prigg. 

Mayonnaise. 

Seven  eggs,  one  large  spoonful  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  four  tablespoonfuls  flour.  Mix  together  and  cook  in  double 
boiler  until  thick.     Cool  and  thin  with  cream  as  you  use  it. 

Mrs.  Hannah  L.  Moore,  McKeesport,  Pa. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Put  on  in  a  granite  pan  one  cup  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter, 
sugar  to  suit  your  taste  and  one-half  teaspoonf  ul  of  pure  celery  seed.  Let 
this  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  corn  starch  beaten  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  water.  When 
thoroughly  cooked  remove  from  the  fire  and  set  away  to  cool.  This  dress- 
ing is  nice  for  any  kind  of  salad.  Mrs.  E.  C.  P. 


119 


French  Dressing* 

Two  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  olive  oil,  salt,  pepper 
and  mustard.     Shake  well  together.     Nice  over  lettuce. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Fisher. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs  beaten  until  light.  Add  one  scant  half  cup  of 
sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  yellow  mustard,  one- half  cup  of  sweet  cream,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Beat  these  ingredients  together,  lioil  one 
pint  of  vinegar  with  a  half  cup  of  good  fresh  batter  and  stir  into  the  other 
ingredients  boiling  hot.  When  cold  just  before  serving,  some  whipped 
cream  or  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  makes  an  improvement. 

Mrs.  W.  L.  VanCleve. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls  mixed  mustard,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  white  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil  or  butter,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls salt,  one  dessert  spoonful  flour.  Mix  these  ingredients  together 
and  pour  into  a  boiling  teacup  of  vinegar.  Let  cook  till  thick,  stirring  all 
the  time.    Use  potatoes  or  cabbage  or  both  together. 

Mrs.  Amanda  Sheets. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  thoroughly,  one  level  teaspoonf ul  each  of 
salt  and  pepper,  two  of  white  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  prepared  mus- 
tard and  one  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Stir  in  the  mixture  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  best  vinegar.  Put  drsssing  in  a  bowl  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  hot 
water  and  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens.  Set  away  and  when  cool  it  is 
ready  for  use. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Four  eggs  well  beaten,  a  scant  half  cup  of  sugar  mixed  with  one-half 
teaspoonful  mustard,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter. 
Stir  into  the  eggs  and  add  one  cup  vinegar.  Cook  in  double  boiler  and 
when  cool  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cream  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Adda  Lamb 


120 


Salad  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  celery  seed  and 
one  pint  of  boiling  vinegar.  Mrs.  Sarah  Trout. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Yolk  of  one  egg,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 
a  pinch  of  cayenne  peper,  half  a  cup  of  cider  vinegar  and  butter  the  size  of 
a  walnut.  Cream  eggs  and  sugar,  then  add  the  flour,  then  the  salt,  pepper 
and  mustard  dissolved  in  one  spoonful  of  vinegar.  Add  all  this  to  the 
boiling  vinegar  and  butter.    When  ready  to  serve,  thin  with  cream. 

Ma^nie  Sharkey. 


O.  M.  WISEHART, 

DENTIST. 

CROWN  &  BRIDGE-WORK  A.  SPECIALTY. 

OFFICE   OVER  CORXER   DRUG  STORE. 

MIDDLETOWN,  INI). 


JOHN  B.  FINK, 

HOT  AND  COLD  BATHS. 


THE 

BARBER. 


\ 


121 


SOUPS. 


66 

feautiful  soup  so  rich  and  green: 
Waiting  in  a  hot  tureen. '! 


Queen  Victoria's  Favorite  Soup* 

Take  half  a  pound  of  pearl  barley  and  place  in  a  stew  pan  with  three 
•pints  of  veal  stock.  Simmer  very  gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  then  re- 
move a  third  of  the  barley  to  another  sauce  pan,  and  rub  the  remainder 
through  a  seive,  Then  add  the  whole  barley  and  half  a  pint  of  cream 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  until  very  hot  and  serve.  Add  a 
poached  egg  on  every  plate  of  soup. 

Mrs.  Nettie  Brattain,  Newcastle,  Ind. 

Macaroni  Soup* 

To  a  rich  beef  or  other  soup,  in  which  there  is  no  seasoning  except 
pepper  and  salt,  take  half  a  pound  of  pipe  macaroni ;  boil  it  in  clear  water 
until  it  is  tender,  then  drain  and  cut  it  in  small  pieces  and  boil  with  the 
soup  fifteen  minutes  and  serve.  Norah  Griffis. 

Tomato  Soup. 

One  quart  of  beef  stocky  four  potatoes,  two  tomatoes  and  one  onion. 
Boil  one  hour  and  run  through  a  colander.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of  flour  and  cream.  Add  a  little  more  cream, 
dish  and  add  whipped  cream.  Bertha  Kragle. 

Corn  Soup. 

One  can  of  corn,  two  good  sized  potatoes,  one  onion,  three  crackers 
rolled  fine,  one  quart  of  milk  or  more  if  needed.  Season  with  pepper,  salt 
and  butter.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Livzey,  Newcastle,  lnd. 


122 


if  Is  Well  Established 


That  a  good  quality  of  goods  at  right  prices  is  appre- 
ciated by  those  who  buy*  I  try  to  meet  this  require- 
ment and  therefore  keep  in  stock  a  good  line  of  Robes, 
Harness,  Whips,  Blankets,  Fly  Nets,  Combs,  Brushes, 
etc.,  and  at  consistent  prices.  Your  continued  patron- 
age for  these  goods  means  our  daily  bread  and  occa- 
sional butter  (we  dislike  to  forego  the  butter. )  We 
also  carry  a  popular  line  of  Trunks  and  Traveling 
goods  on  which  we  can  save  you  money. 
Repair  work  promptly  done. 


Otto  Zrittscbub* 


When  In  Anderson 
Stop  At  The 


The 


Fifth  St. 


Livery 
And 


Heat  Market.. 


Tykle  Block. 


Feed 


On  E.  10th  St. 


Good  Rigs  and  Proper  Attention  to 
to  all  Patrons. 


Barn..- 


Has  everything  in  the  wa}' 

of  meats  to  be  found  in  a 

first  class   market.  And 

the  best  quality  too.  Call 
and  see  as. 


ORA  SANDERS. 


123 


Potato  Soup. 

To  one  gallon  of  water  add  six  large  potatoes  chopped  fine,  one  cup  of 
rice,  one  onion,  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Work  butter  and  flour  together  and  add  ODe  cup  of  sweet  cream  just  before 
taking  from  the  fire.    Boil  one  hour.  Mrs,  Barbara  Grove. 

Mrs.  Wood. 

Noodle  Soup. 

Break  two  eggs  into  abowl  and  beat  until  light,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Then  work  in  flour  until  you  have  a  very  stiff  dough.  Turn  it  on  your 
moulding  board  and  work  until  smooth.  Roll  thin  and  cut  very  fine.  Have 
chicken  or  beef  broth  well  seasoned  and  half  an  hour  before  you  serve 
dinner,  drop  noodles  in  boiling  broth.  Sarah  Tarkleson. 


Vegetable  Soup. 

Get  soup  bone  and  boil  down  to  one  quart.  Add  to  this  three  toma- 
toes, two  potatoes  and  boil  one  hour.  Add  more  water  if  needed.  When 
ready  to  serve,  take  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  to  one  teacup  of  milk.  Stir  in 
and  let  boil ;  then  add  some  whipped  cream.  Serve  over  toasted  squares. 
Extra  fine.  Mrs.  F.  P.  Miller. 

Consomme. 

One  fowl,  one-half  veal  hock,  one  carrot,  one  onion,  some  celery  and 
from  three  to  four  quarts  of  stock.  Cut  to  pieces  the  fowl  and  veal,  let 
them  cook  in  some  butter  until  a  light  brown,  then  put  them  in  a  kettle 
with  necessary  amount  of  stock.  Allow  to  cook  slowly  for  two  hours, 
skimming  from  time  to  time.  Take  the  floating  grease  off  and  strain 
through  a  napkin.  Selected. 

Clear  Soup. 

Four  pounds  of  juicy  beef,  one  knuckle  of  veal,  two  small  turnips, 
two  carrots,  one  soup  bunch,  one  small  pod  of  red  pepper,  two  white 
onions,  salt  and  six  quarts  of  water.  Boil  six  hours,  then  strain  through 
a  seive  and  let  it  stand  over  night  and  congeal.  Then  skim  off  all  the 
grease  and  put  into  a  kettle  to  warm.  Take  off  and  add  grape  juice  to 
taste.  Mrs.  Mable  Summers. 


124 


Bean  Soup* 

One  pint  of  beans  cooked  tender  with  meat.  Beat  one  egg  and  stir 
flour  with  egg  till  it  crumbles  up,  then  stir  in  the  beans. 

Mrs.  Rebekah  Detrich. 

Soup. 

One  pound  of  veal  covered  with  cold  water,  and  boiled  gently.  Take 
out  the  bones,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  a 
little  butter,  a  little  cooked  rice  and  some  strained  tomato,  enough  to  give 
it  color.    This  will  make  four  quarts  or  over. 

Mrs.  Laura  Waters. 
Consomme  with  Rice. 

Preparation  for  five  persons.  From  two  to  three  quarts  consomme  or 
stock,  and  one-half  tablespoonful  rice.  Wash  rice  and  let  boil  in  some 
water  till  soft.  Let  it  drip,  cool  with  cold  water  and  let  drip  again.  Warm 
your  consomme  or  stock,  and  when  ready  to  serve  put  the  rice  in  the  soup 
which  must  not  boil  again. 


The 
Welsh 


An  up-to-date  hotel  with 
all  the  Modern  Conven- 
iences, including  electric 
lights,  steam  heat,  hot 
and  cold  water.  The 
best  accommodations  at 
the  most  reasonable 
ratBS. 


More  Light 


If  you  want  more  and 
better  lights  in  your 
homes,  just  have  them 
wired  for  electricity  and 

The  Welsh  Electric 

Light  Plant 

will  do  the  rest. 


J,  H.  CARPENTER, 

Proprietor. 


Mrs.  Anna  D,  Welsh,  Owner, 


125 


SANDWICHES. 


will  show  myself  highly  fed." 


Chicken  Salad  Sandwiches* 

For  these  the  meat  and  celery  are  chopped  quite  fine  and  mixed  with 
mayonnaise  dressing  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Then  thin  slices  of  bread 
are  buttered  lightly,  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf  laid  on  each  slice  and  the  salad 
spread  between.  English  walnuts  and  shrimps  chopped  fine  and  moistened 
with  orange  juice  and  the  bread  spread  with  mayonnaise  instead  of  butter. 
This  makes  delicious  sandwiches. 

Mrs.  Fred  Oakley,  Fairmount,  Ind. 

Sardine  Sandwiches. 

Take  the  contents  of  a  half-pound  box  of  sardines;  remove  bones  and 
skin  and  chop  them  fine,  add  two  eggs  boiled  hard,  chopped  and  seasoned 
with  one  half  teaspoonful  mustard  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  grated 
hoixe-radish.  Mix  well  together  and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bread  or  cold  biscuits.  B.  R.  W. 

Fruit  Sandwiches. 

One-fourth  of  a  pound  of  candied  cherries,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of 
seeded  raisins  and  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  dates  chopped  very  fine.  Mix 
and  add  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut  and  moisten  with  the 
juice  of  half  an  orange  and  one-fourth  cup  of  grape  juice.  Spread  be- 
tween slices  of  white  sandwich  bread.    This  will  make  fifteen. 

Mabelle  Jackson. 


126 


Celery  Rolls. 

Grate  sweet  rich  cheese,  adding  lemon  juice  to  make  a  paste.  Season 
with  white  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Fill  cavities  of  celery  and  lap  three 
pieces  to  form  a  roll.    Tie  with  ribbon.    Serve  with  wafers. 

Jeanette  Grove. 

Tomato  Sandwiches. 

Select  three  large  ones  or  one  can  of  tomatoes,  cook  until  very  tender, 
then  press  through  a  sieve  to  free  from  seeds;  return  to  the  fire  and  acid 
two  ounces  of  grated  cheese  and  a  generous  piece  of  butter.  Beat  up  one 
egg  and  stir  into  the  mixture  when  it  boils,  removing  the  saucepan  im- 
mediately from  the  fire.  Let  the  mixture  get  very  cold  before  making  the 
sandwiches.  Miss  Celia  Davis. 

Peanut  Sandwiches. 

Chop  peanuts  fine  and  stir  in  a  mayonnaise  dressing.  Cut  light  bread 
into  thin  slices  and  spread  with  mixture. 

Miss  Minnie  Mowrey,  Pendleton,  Ind. 

Veal  Sandwiches. 

One  pound  lean  veal  cooked  very  tender,  then  chopped  fine.  Add  one 
hard  boiled  egg  and  one  cup  chopped  celery,  season  all  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Moisten  slightly  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing.  Cut  bread  thin,  take 
off  the  crust  and  cut  in  squares.  Butter  lightly  and  place  a  thin  spreading 
of  veal  mixture  between  squares.  Mrs.  Rose  A.  Pickering. 


When  you  want  your  shoes  half=soled 

or  repaired,  call  on 

Middletown,  Ind.  W.  A.  GREENLEE. 


I 


127 


VEGETABLES. 


ake  the  goods  the  gods  provide  thee. 


Baked  Beans. 

Three  teacups  of  beans,  soaked  about  six  hours.  Add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  catsup,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses  and  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Bake  with  five  cents  worth  of  pork,  keeping  enough 
water  on  to  cook  the  beans  tender.  Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Sanders,  Sr. 

Baked  Beans. 

Take  one  quart  of  beans  and  soak  them  over  night.  In  the  morning 
parboil  them  and  put  them  into  a  bean  baker  and  season  to  taste.  Put  a 
piece  of  bacon  in  the  center.  As  the  water  boils  away  replenish  with 
sweentened  water.  Mrs.  Sarah  E.  Trout. 

Baked  Beans. 

Put  an  onion  in  the  bottom  of  the  crock  in  which  beans  are  to  be 
baked,  cut  bacon  in  squares  down  to  rind.  Soak  beans  over  night  or  par- 
boil in  a  little  soda.  Put  beans  in  on  top  of  onion  then  the  bacon  in  the 
cepter  of  crock,  then  beans  on  top,  salt  to  taste.  Put  in  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  baking  molasses  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  ground  mustard. 
Cover  with  cold  water  and  bake  until  done.    Do  not  let  them  get  dry. 

Jeanette  Grove. 

Fried  Bananas. 

Beat  one  egg  very  light,  cut  large  scarcely  ripe  bananas  in  four  lenth- 
wise  strips.  Cover  with  the  eggs,  then  dredge  well  with  flour  and  sugar 
mixed,  and  fry  a  nice  brown.    Sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  and  serve. 

Mrs.  B.  P.  Braucii,  Melbourne,  Pla. 


i 

i 


128 


*««««««:<:««««•<«««* 


THE  Capital  Stock,  $30,000. 

FARMERS'  SurpluSt  $8  000 

STATE  BANK.  * 

Does  a  General  Banking  Business. 
Special  attention  given  to  Collections. 
Prompt  remittance  Guaranteed. 
Your  deposits  solicited. 


E  L-  ELLIOTT,  Cashier 


129 


Cream  Cabbage. 

One-half  pint  of  thick  sweet  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
vinegar  to  taste.  Cut  one-half  head  of  nice  white  cabbage,  place  in  a  crock 
and  salt  it,  then  pound  it.  Mix  the  cream,  sugar  and  vinegar  together, 
pour  over  cabbage  and  stir  hard  with  a  fork.  Mrs.  Detrich. 

Baked  Beans. 

Soak  one  quart  of  beans  over  night.  In  the  morning  pour  off  water 
and  put  in  fresh  water  and  let  it  slowly  come  to  a  boiling  point;  pour  off 
water  again,  and  cover  with  fresh  hot  water.  Put  in  one  tablespoonful  of 
salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  Orleans  mo- 
lasses and  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  bacon  sliced  thin.  Cover  and  let  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  nine  or  ten  hours.  About  half  an  hour  before  taking  out, 
open  a  can  of  tomatoes,  run  them  through  a  colander  and  add  to  the  beans. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Fisher. 

Boiled  Cabbage. 

Cut  the  head  in  pieces,  pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  let  stand  for  a 
few  minutes,  then  drain  the  water  off.  Add  more  water  and  boil  a  few 
minutes,  then  put  in  .  about  as  many  potatoes  as  3Tou  have  cabbage  and 
when  tender  mash  all  together;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  sweet 
cream.    Be  sure  to  drain  the  water  all  off  before  mashing  them. 

Emma  Sw  anger. 

Cold  Slaw. 

Chop  the  cabbage  fine  and  salt  to  taste,  then  mash  until  tender.  Take 
one  cup  of  vinegar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg  and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Beat  all  together  and  cook  until  thick, 
then  pour  over  cabbage.    This  is  fine.  Mrs.  I.  N.  Marshall. 

Hot  Slaw. 

Lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  of  vinegar,  two-thirds  cup  of  cream.  Add  salt  to  suit  the  taste 
and  cook  till  thick  but  do  not  boil.  Put  in  the  cabbage  and  cook  three 
minutes.  Lou  Buhner. 

Fried  Corn. 

To  one  can  of  corn  use  one  egg,  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  enough 
flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  salt  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Drop  into  hot 
grease  enough  batter  to  make  cakes  the  desired  size  and  fry  until  nicely 
browned.  Emily  Greenlee. 


130 


New  Potatoes. 

Wash^  scrape  and  boil  ten  minutes,  turn  off  water,  and  add  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover;  also  add  a  little  salt.  Cook  a  few  minutes,  drain 
and  set  again  on  stove.  Add  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  thickening 
made  of  two  scant  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  a  pint  of  milk.  Put  on  pota- 
toes, cover  and  when  the  milk  has  boiled,  serve  Or  when  cooked  and 
drained,  put  in  a  skillet  with  hot  drippings,  cover  and  shake  until  a  nice 
brown.  Practical  Housekeeper. 

Macaroni  with  Tomato  Sauce.- 

Divide  one-half  pound  of  macaroni  into  small  pieces;  put  into  boiling 
salted  water  enough  to  cover,  and  boil  until  tender,  then  drain  and  arrange 
on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  tomato  sauce  over  it.  Serve  immediately  while 
hot.  Sauce — Take  one  can  of  tomatoes,  put  over  the  fire  in  a  stew  pan ; 
put  in  one  slice  of  onion,  two  cloves,  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  about  twenty 
minutes,  then  remove  from  fire  and  strain  through  a  seive.  Melt  in  an- 
other pan  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  as  it  melts  sprinkle  in  a  tabiespoonful  of 
flour.  Stir  it  until  it  browns  and  froths  a  little,  mix  the  tomato  pulp  with 
it  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  This  sauce  is  also  nice  for  for  roast  pig,  mutton, 
etc.  Mrs.  F.  R.  Henshaw. 

Scalloped  Potatoes. 

Peel  and  slice  raw  potatoes  as  for  frying,  or  cut  in  little  square  pieces 
the  shape  of  dice.  Butter  an  earthen  baking  dish;  put  in  a  layer  of  pota- 
toes and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  bits  of  butter,  and  a  little  onion  minced 
tine.  Sprinkle  in  a  little  flour.  Now  put  in  another  layer  of  potatoes  and 
the  seasoning.  Continue  in  this  way  until  the  dish  is  full.  Then  pour 
over  enough  hot  milk  to  cover  and  bake  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour  or 
until  the  potatoes  are  tender.    The  onion  can  be  omitted  if  disliked. 

Cynthia  Paullin. 

Potato  Chips. 

Take  nice  large  potatoes,  slice  them  very  thin  with  a  slaw  cutter, 
throwing  them  in  cold  water  as  you  slice  them.  Then  take  them  out  and 
Jay  them  on  a  cloth  and  roll  them  up.  Let  them  stand  an  hour  in  the 
cloth.  Then  have  hot  lard,  or  olive  oil  is  better,  and  drop  them  in  and 
keep  turning  them  with  a  ladle  until  a  light  brown.  Take  them  out, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  them  cool.  Mrs.  Charles  Ghering. 


131 


Sweet  Potatoes, 

Pare  sweet  potatoes  and  put  enough  water  over  them  .to  cook  tender. 
When  you  first  put  them  on  to  cook  put  in  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a  little  salt.  Let  them  simmer  down 
dry.  Mrs.  Amanda  Sheets. 

Dropped  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Boil  the  potatoes  until  quite  soft,  then  peel  and  rub  smooth  with  salt, 
butter  and  pepper.  Add  enough  good  cream  to  soften  them  and  then  drop 
in  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  pan.  Brush  with  milk  and  put  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  a  delicate  brown.  This  is  a  southern  method  of  treating  the 
much  abused  sweet  potato. 

May  Daniel  Davis,  Rushville,  Ind. 

Potato  Chips. 

Select  nice  large  white  potatoes  and  soak  them  over  night.  In  the 
morning  slice  them  into  cold  water  and  let  them  stand  in  this  for  about 
ten  minutes,  then  change  into  fresh  water.  Dry  with  a  clean  cloth  and 
fry  in  a  skillet  full  of  fresh  country  lard.  Be  sure  not  to  have  the  lard 
too  hot  as  it  will  make  them  brown.  Selected. 

To  Cook  Canned  Peas. 

Put  to  heat  in  a  sauce  pan  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  o  lump  of  butter  and 
your  seasoning.  Drain  the  liquor  from  peas  and  turn  them  into  the  milk 
as  soon  as  it  boils,  and  serve  immediately. 

Creamed  Salsify  or  Oyster  Plant. 

Cut  the  salsify  after  peeling  into  small  dice  and  stew  well  until  done. 
Drain  the  water  from  it  and  stir  in  thickening  made  with  cream,  flour  and 
butter.    Season  to  taste  and  serve  with  peas. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Livezy,  Newcastle,  Ind. 

Baked  Tomatoes. 

One  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
Rub  butter  into  bread  crumbs;  add  the  salt,  pepper  and  sugar.  Place  a 
layer  of  tomatoes  in  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  the  mixture;  then 
another  layer  of  tomatoes.  Dot  the  to;)  with  butter,  dust  with  pepper,  a 
little  sugar,  dry  bread  crumbs  and  bake  one-half  hour  or  until  brown. 
An  onion  can  be  added  if  liked. 


132 


A  Good  Way  to  Cook  Tomatoes. 

Select  good,  solid,  ripe  tomatoes.  Cut  them  into  chunks  and  stew 
quickly.  Beat  together  three  eggs  and  a  cup  of  milk,  add  butter  and  sea- 
soning. As  soon  as  tomatoes  are  thoroughly  done  remove  fiom  fire  and 
stir  the  mixture  in  and  serve  quickly  on  wafers. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Livezy,  Newcastle,  Ind. 

Creamed  Onions. 

Poach  the  white  part  of  young  onions  in  salted  water  until  tender. 
Then  dress  them  with  a  sauce  made  by  stirring  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  creamed  together.  When 
the  mixture  has  cooked  perfectly  smooth,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Julia  Sharp. 

Potato  Croquettes. 

Two  cups  of  mashed  potatoes,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  bit  of 
celery  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  pars- 
ley and  a  pinch  of  red  pepper.  "Mix  all  together  and  make  in  cakes.  Roll 
in  cracker  and  egg,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Draia  on  brown  paper. 

Rice  Croquettes. 

One  large  cup  of  cold  rice,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  little  grate  of  nutmeg.  Boil  the  milk  and  add  the  rice  and 
seasoning  and  as  soon  as  all  is  stirred  smoothly,  add  the  beaten  egg.  Boil 
a  minute,  then  take  off  and  cool.  "When  cold,  shape  into  balls  or  coiks; 
dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  cracker  dust,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Serve 
very  hot  on  a  napkin  laid  on  a  hot  dish.  When  prepared  without  sugar,  a 
teaspooniul  of  parsley  is  sometimes  added.       Mrs.  W.  S.  VanTuyl. 

Time  for  Cooking  Summer  Vegetables. 

Greens,  Dandelions  14-  hours 

Greens,  Spinach.  1  hour 

String  beans  2  hours 

Green  peas   .  >   4-  hour 

Beets  1  hour 

Turnips  1  hour 

Squash  1  hour 

Potatoes     i  hour 

Corn   i  hour 

Asparagus      |  hour 

This  applies  to  young  and  fresh  vegetables. 

Olla  Davis. 


133 


Time  for  Cooking  Winter  Vegetables. 


Squash  1  hour 

White  potatoes  ^  hour 

Baked  potatoes  1  hour 

Sweet  potatoes  f  hour 

Baked  sweet  potatoes  1  hour 

Turnips  2  hours 

Beets  3^  hours 

Parsnips  1  hour 

Carrots  1£  hours 

Cabbage  3  hours  and  three  miles  from  the  house. 

Olla  Dayis. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


If  not  suited  before,  surely  here  you'll  find  your  dish." 


Caramel  Icing. 

Boil  two  cups  of  white  sugar  and  one  cup  of  water  until  it  clicks  when 
put  in  water.  Then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  half  a  cup  of 
cream.  Cook  five  minutes.  Do  not  stir  until  after  you  have  added  the 
butter  and  cream.  Mrs,  E.  C.  P. 

Cocoanut  Icing. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  water;  boil  until  it  makes 
a  thin  syrup,  and  pour  slowly  over  the  whites  of  two  eggs  that  have  been 
beaten  stiff.  Beat  while  pouring  over  eggs  and  until  cool.  Add  one-half 
box  of  cocoanut  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Lemon  Filling. 

One  grated  lemon,  one  large  spoonful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar  and 
the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  stiff.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  stir  con- 
tinually while  cooking.  Sallie  Fisher. 


134 


Strawberry  Preserves. 

One  quart  of  granulated  sugar  and  one- third  as  much  water.  Boil 
sugar  and  water  until  very  thick  ancf  then  add  one  quart  of  fruit  and  boil 
until  thick.  Mrs.  Lillian  VanMatre. 

Filling  for  Layer  Cake. 

Boil  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  one-third  cup  of  water  without 
stirring,  until  the  syrup  threads.  Pour  it  over  the  white  of  an  egg  which 
has  been  beaten  until  foamy  but  not  stiff,  add  one-fourth  pound  of  figs 
finely  chopped  and  cooked  in  one- half  cup  of  water  until  tender;  then  add 
one-half  cup  of  walnut  meats  finely  chopped,  then  beat  all  together  until 
cold  enough  to  spread.  Mrs.  Joe  Prigg. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Ramsey. 

Raisin  Filling. 

Cook  together  one  cup  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  water  and 
two-thirds  cup  sugar  when  raisins  are  tender,  add  one  egg  beaten  slightly", 
stir  and  cook  until  tender  and  slightly  thickened.  A  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice  may  be  added  if  desired.    You  can  use  figs  in  place  of  raisins. 

Lizzie  Parker.  Mrs.  Wood. 

Quince  Honey. 

Three  quinces  peeled  and  grated.  Take  twenty-five  cents  worth  of 
granulated  sugar  and  dissolve  in  a  half  pint  of  water.  Stir  quince  in  and 
let  come  to  a  boil  and  boil  five  minutes.    Then  it  is  done. 

Miss  Crystal  Powell. 

Quince  Honey, 

Four  quarts  of  granulated  sugar,  four  quarts  of  water.  Bring  to  a 
boil  then  add  the  pulp  of  four  large  quincss;  let  boil  slowly  for  one  hour  or 
more,  until  thick  like  honey.  Mrs.  L.  A.  Neff. 

Artificial  Honey. 

Take  ten  pounds  of  Havana  sugar,  three  pounds  of  water,  forty  grains 
of  cream  tartar,  ten  drops  of  essence  of  peppermint  and  three  pounds  of 
honey.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  water  over  a  slow  fire  and  take  off  the  scum, 
then  dissolve  the  cream  tartar  in  a  little  warm  water,  add  the  honey,  cream 
tartar  and  peppermint  to  the  sugar  and  stir  for  a  few  minutes.  Let  it 
stand  till  cool  when  it  is  ready  for  use.  Mrs.  Sarah  Anshutz. 


135 


Peach  Marmalade. 

Rub  and  wash  the  peaches  well  but  do  not  pare  them.  Cut  them  in 
halves  and  remove  the  stones.  Put  peaches  into  a  porcelain  kettle;  add 
water  to  cover  the  bottom  of  kettle.  Cover  and  heat  slowly  to  a  good  boil- 
ing point,  stir  and  mash  until  fine,  then  measure,  and  allow  a  pint  of  sugar 
to  a  quart  of  fruit,  and  to  every  quart  of  fruit  allow  ten  kernels  almonds 
blanched  and  chopped  fine.  Boil  and  stir  continually  for  fiften  minutes, 
then  cook  slowly  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes  longer. 

Mattie  Painter. 

Quince  Honey. 

Take  one  quince  peeled  and  grated  very  ffne,  add  one  pint  of  granu- 
lated sugar  and  one -half  pint  of  water.    Cook  till  thick  as  honey. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Hanby. 

Lemon  Butter. 

One  cup  white  sugar,  three  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  half  an  egg,  beat 
well  together,  add  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  large  lemon ;  place  in  a  pan 
set  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  stir  well  until  thick.  This  may  be  made  and 
kept  in  jars  for  a  long  time  and  used  as  needed  for  filling  tarts,  etc. 

Mrs.  Carl  Barnard,  Muncie,  Ind. 

Canned  Pineapple. 

For  six  pounds  of  fruit,  when  cut  and  and  ready  to  can,  make  syrup 
with  two  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  and  nearly  three  pints  of  water;  boil 
syrup  five  minutes  and  skim  or  strain  if  necessary,  then  add  the  fruit  and 
let  it  boil  up.  Have  cans  hot,  fill  and  seal  up  as  soon  as  possible.  Use 
the  best  white  sugar.  As  the  cans  cool,  keep  tightening  them  up.  Cut 
the  fruit  half  an  inch  thick. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Lancaster,  Richmond,  Ind. 

Orange  Marmalade. 

Slice  five  oranges  rind  and  all,  add  one  whole  lemon  sliced  and  the 
juice  of  two  other  lemons.  Remove  the  seeds.  Stand  over  night;  in  the 
morning  weigh  and  add  three  pints  of  water  for  each  pound  of  fruit.  Boil 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Let  stand  until  next  morning  then  add  one  and 
one-fourth  pounds  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit  and  boil  again  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour.    Then  it  is  ready  to  can.  Olla  Davis. 


136 


Orange  Patties. 

Grate  the  rind  from  two  oranges,  and  add  the  pulp,  mix  with  the  well 
beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water  and  two  of  melted  butter-  Line  little  pattie  cases  with 
dough,  then  fill  with  the  orange  mixture  and  bake.  When  done  cover  with 
a  meringue  made  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar.  Sprinkle  some  finely  chopped  almonds  over  the  top,  dust 
with  powdered  sugar  and  brown  slightly  in  oven. 

Mrs.  Dan  King,  Elwood,  Ind. 

Marguerites. 

Make  a  boiled  icing,  using  one  cup  of  confectioners'  sugar  with  one- 
half  cup  of  water.  Boil  until  it  strings  in  cold  water,  then  beat  it  into  the 
stiffly  beaten  white  of  one  egg.  The  mixture  should  be  quite  stiff  when  it 
is  done.  Now  add  one  cup  of  chopped  nuts  and  one-half  cup  dried  cur- 
rants. Spread  the  jnixture  on  non-sweet  crackers  and  brown  for  a  minute 
in  a  hot  oven.  Mrs.  Will  Heoffer. 

Stewed  Bananas. 

Choose  two  or  three  fresh  firm  bananas,  peel  and  cut  them  into  quar- 
ters. Put  them  in  a  chafing  dish,  adding  one  half  teaspoonful  butter,  one 
half  dozen  almonds  and  one  half  dozen  pistachio  nuts,  chopped  fine  and 
thrown  into  the  butter.  Stir  for  one  minute,  add  one  half  cup  cream  and 
the  juice  of  one  orange.    Boil  bananas  in  this  mixture  for  two  minutes. 

Mrs.  Guype.  Alexandria,  Ind. 

Tuti  Fruti. 

Put  one  pint  of  alcohol  in  a  glass  jar  and  for  each  pound  of  fruit  use  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Use  berries  whole.  Large  fruits  should  be  sliced.  After 
putting  in  the  first  fruit  it  should  be  stirred  every  four  days  so  the  sugar 
will  not  settle  to  the  bottom.    Any  kind  of  fruit  desired  may  be  used. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Waters. 

Vinegar  Sauce. 

One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
in  a  little  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  quarter  of  a  nutmeg 
grated,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Pour  over  this  one  and  a  half-pints  boiling  water, 
and  boil  ten  minutes.  Just  before  taking  from  the  fire  add  one  dessert 
spoonful  of  butter.    This  is  fine  for  fruit  pudding.       Mrs.  Hopkins. 


137 


Baked  Chicken  Pie. 

Stew  the  chicken  until  tender,  season  well  and  make  a  gravy  over  it  as 
for  stewed  chicken.  Make  a  rich  buscuit  dough  with  which  line  a  baking 
dish.  Pat  in  a  layer  of  chicken,  then  add  strips  of  dough,  then  thin  slices 
of  potatoes,  with  bits  of  butter  over,  add  another  layer  of  chicken,  and  so 
on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Pour  over  the  whole  the  gravy,  then  lay  on  the 
top  crust,  carefully  fastening  the  edges.    Bake  thirty  miutes.  Fine. 

Mrs.  Fred  Cromer,  Muncie,  Ind. 

Ginger  Gems. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  eup  molasses,  one  cup  shortening,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  soda,  about  one  cup  hot  water,  or  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  ginger,  add  flour. 

To  Blanche  Almonds  or  Peanuts. 

Shell  the  nuts  and  pour  boiling  water  oyer  them.  Let  stand  in  the 
water  a  minute,  and  then  throw  them  in  cold  water.  Piub  between  the 
bands. 

Salted  Almonds. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  shelled  almonds  f  let  stand  five  minutes,  then 
throw  into  cold  water  and  remove  skins.  Put  into  a  pan  and  set  in  a  mod- 
erate oven,  stirring  often  until  nicely  brown.  Just  before  removing  from 
oven,  pour  over  them  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  to  one  pound  of  almonds,  and  toss  until  thoroughly  mixed. 

Selected. 

Honey  Syrup. 

Take  one  and  one-half  pints  of  water,  put  in  a  kettle,  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  pulverized  alum;  when  dissolved  pour  in  four  pounds  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  stir  until  dissolved,  then  to  one  teaspoonf ul  of  alcohol  add 
two  drops  of  oil  of  rose,  when  the  syrup  is  hot.  Take  up  and  strain 
through  a  coarse  cloth.  Mrs.  Ophelia  Davis. 

Drawn  Butter. 

Half  pint  of  milk;  mix  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter.  Work  well  together  and  stir  in  half  cup  of  water.  Add  to  boil- 
ing milk.  Mrs.  Cyntha  Middleton. 


138 


Paste  That  Will  Keep. 

To  one  quart  of  hot  water  add  one  teaspoonful  alum.  When  thoroughly 
dissolved  stir  in  enough  flour  to  obtain  the  consistancy  of  thick  cream. 
Throw  in  a  dozen  cloves  and  as  much  powdered  rosin  as  will  lie  on  a  dime. 
Pour  into  the  mixture  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  time.  When 
a  molasses-like  consistancy  has  been  roached,  pour  into  an  earthen  vessel. 
While  cooling,  stir  in  a  small  teaspoonful  each  of  oil  of  cloves  and  sassa- 
fras. Cover  and  put  awaj'  in  a  cool  place  until  needed.  A  small  quantity 
softened  with  warm  water,  will  make  a  fine,  smooth  paste  suitable  for 
scrap  books. 

How  to  Keep  Well. 

Don't  sleep  in  a  draught. 

Don't  go  to  bed  with  cold  feet. 

Don't  stand  over  hot-air  registers. 

Don't  eat  what  }T>u  do  not  need,  just  to  save  it. 

Don't  try  to  get  cool  too  quick,  after  exercising. 

Don't  sleep  in  a  room  without  a  ventilation  of  some  kind. 

Don't  stuff  a  cold  lest  you  should  next  be  obliged  to  starve  a  fever. 

Don't  sit  in  a  damp  or  chilly  room  without  a  fire. 

Don't  try  to  go  without  flannel  underclothing  in  winter. 

Toilet  Cream. 

One-half  ounce  gum  tragacanth,  two  and  one- half  ounces  alcohol,  two 
and  one-half  ounces  glycerine,  juice  of  three  lemons.  Soak  tragacanth  in 
one  pint  of  rain  water  over  night,  then  add  the  other  ingredients.  Any  de- 
sired perfume  and  more  water  if  too  thick.  Ella  Wisehart. 

Cream  of  Roses. 

Glycerine  two  ounces,  alcohol  one  ounce,   gum  tragacauth  one-fourth 
ounce,  rose  water  or  violet  one-half  ounce.    Prepare  one  pint  rain  water, 
soak  tragacanth  two  days,  strain,   then  add  the  other  ingredients;  cut  gl}'- 
cerihe  in  alcohol.     Add  alcohol  and  water  to  suit;  make  thick  as  cream. 

Ophelia  Davis. 

Burns  and  Scalds. 

Cover  with  cooking  soda  and  lay  wet  cloths  over  it.  Whites  of  eggs 
and  olive  oil.  Linseed  oil  or  olive  oil,  plain  or  mixed  with  chalk  or  whit- 
ing.   Sweet  or  olive  oil  and  lime-water. 


139 


Maccaroni  and  Cheese. 

Break  half  a  pound  of  maccaroni  into  pieces  an  inch  or  two  long  and 
cook  it  in  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it  well.  Put  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  let  it  boil  twenty  minutes.  Drain  it  well  and  then  put  a  layer  in 
the  bottom  of  a  dish  or  pan,  then  a  layer  of  grated  cheese  and  small  bits 
of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  then  more  maccaroni,  and  so  on  until 
the  dish  is  filled.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  cracker  crumbs.  Pour  over  the 
whole  a  teacup  of  cream  or  milk.  Set  in  oven  and  bake  half  an  hour.  A 
cup  of  chopped  mushrooms  and  olives  is  a  great  improvement.  Then  pour 
over  all  a  half-pint  of  strained  tomatos.  Mattie  Painter. 

Mrs.  E.  Baldwin,  Fairmount,  Ind. 


THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING. 


4  4^1T\he  raging  toothache  or  pain  why  endure, 
JL  When  there  is  found  a  perfect  cure?" 


A  Pain  Killer  for  Toothache  and  Neuralgia. 

One  ounce  alcohol,  one-eighth  ounce  laudanum,  five-eighths  ounce  of 
chloroform,  one-half  ounce  gum  camphor,  one-half  ounce  oil  of  cloves, 
three-fourths  ounce  sulphuric  ether,  one  ounce  oil  of  lavander.  Apply 
with  cotton  to  the  cavity  in  the  tooth,  rub  also  on  the  gums  and  upon  the 
face  against  the  tooth.  C. 

Russian  Stove  Polish* 

One  ounce  burnt  alum  powdered,  two  ounces  gum  asphaltum  powdered. 
Powder  very  fine  and  dissolve  in  one  pint  of  turpentine.  Apply  with  a 
brush. 

Tin  or  Silver  Polish. 

Four  ounces  oxalic  acid,  six  pounds  Spanish  whiting.  Color  with 
Venetain  red  or  brown,  mix  with  water  and  stir  until  well  mixed.  Use 
flannel  cloth  to  rub  it  on  with. 

For  Sore  Feet. 

One  half  ounce  of  tannic  acid,  one  ounce  of  powdered  alum,  one  ounce 
of  glycerine  and  two  ounces  of  alcohol.  Water  sufficient  to  make  eight 
ounces.    After  washing  feetj  apply  night  and  morning. 


140 


Camphor  Ice, 

Eight  ounces  of  vaseline,  five  ounces  of  paraffine  and  two  ounces  of 
spirits  camphor.  Heat  the  vaseline  and  paraffine  until  melted,  then  add 
the  camphor  and  stir  slowly  until  cold.  Keep  in  a  porcelain  jar.  Good  for 
rough  or  irritated  skin. 

Lavender  Smelling  Sauce. 

Eight  ounces  of  carbonate  ammonia  cut  in  pieces,  one-half  ounce  of 
oil  lavender,  one-half  ounce  of  bergamot,  one-half  ounce  of  cassia  and  one 
ounce  of  cloves.  Mix  and  rub  the  oils  well  together.  Put  the  pieces  of 
the  ammonia  in  the  viniagrette  and  pour  over  enough  of  the  mixture  to 
scarcely  cover  the  ammonia.  C. 

Cement. 

Eight  ounces  white  glue,  two  ounces  gum  shallac,  one  ounce  white 
lead,  one  and  one-half  pints  water  boiled  five  minutes.  .  Directions — Warm 
the  pieces  which  you  wish  to  mend  by  the  stove  or  lamp,  warm  the  cement 
till  it  is  thin:  then  apply  the  cement  to  the  edges,  place  the  pieces  carefull}r 
together.    Lay  away  until  dry. 

To  Remove  Grease  From  Cloth. 

Four  ounces  of  alcohol,  one  ounce  of  ammonia,  one-half  ounce  of  oil 
sassafras,  one  ounce  of  chloroform  and  one  drachm  of  pulverized  borax. 
Mix,  shake  well,  then  add  one-half  gallon  of  gasoline. 

One  teaspoonful  of  common  soda  and  one  teaspoonf ul  of  alcohol  dis- 
solved in  a  glass  of  warm  water  will  relieve  irritated  throat;  gargling  often. 

One  teaspoonful  of  listerine  in  half  a  glass  of  water,  used  as  a  wash 
for  the  teeth  and  gums  is  excellent. 

To  Clean  Carpet. 

Ten  ounces  of  Fuller's  earth,  two  ounces  of  borax  and  one  cake  of 
Babit's  soak.  Shave  the  soap.  Dissolve  soap  and  borax  in  three  pints  of 
boiling  water.  Stir  up  a  batter  of  earth.  Mix  all  in  a  bucket,  and  fill  it 
up  with  boiling  water.  Mrs.  George  Quick. 

Camphorated  water  is  a  sure  cure  for  gaps  in  chickens. 
Pyrethum  on  cabbage-plants,  kills  worms. 

Peroxide  of  hydrogen  is  a  valuable  gargle  for  irritated  throats,  and 
does  not  burn  a  sensitive  throat 


141 


For  Cleaning  Clothing. 

Two  ounces  glycerine,  three  ounces  sulphuric  ether,  four  ounces  aqua 
amonia,  four  ounces  alcohol,  three  ounces  Castile  soap,  one- half  ounce  of 
borax.    Cut  the  soap  fine  and  put  all  these  in  a  jug;  fill  up  with  rain  water. 

The  juice  of  the  root  of  garden  rhubarb  applied  to  the  eye  has  cured 
bad  cases  of  sore  eyes. 

To  purify  a  room  of  unpleasant  odors,  burn  vinegar  or  sugar. 

Sealing  wax  is  made  of  two  parts  of  bseswax  and  one  of  resin,  melted 
together  with  lard  the  size  of  a  pea. 

For  The  Hands. 

Two  ounces  of  glycerine,  one  cup  or  four  ounces  of  alcohol,  two  cents 
worth  of  carbolic  acid,  juice  of  three  lemons,  and  one  pint  of  rain  water. 
Perfume  a  few  drops.  Put  glycerine  and  alcohol  together  and  let  it  stand 
a  short  time,  then  strain  lemon  juice  in  and  mix  all  together. 

Domestic  Remedies. 

BURNS — Of  slight  degree,  use  sugar  of  lead  water,  starch  water, 
or  common  soda  water.  For  burns  of  greater  severity,  bits  of  blotting 
paper  one-half  by  two  inches  soaked  in  molasses,  laid  over  the  surface 
evenly  is  an  excellent  application. 

STYES — Bath  the  edges  of  the  eye-lid  with  mild  soap  suds. 

NOSE  BLEED — Avoid,  hanging  the  head  down  and  blowing  of  nose. 
Hold  head  erect  with  arms  raised  above  the  head  and  plug  nose  with 
cotton. 

BOILS — Never  use  poultices  as  they  breed  other  boils,  but  instead 
soak  a  piece  of  muslin  in  hot  carbolic  acid  water  and  apply  to  boil  and 
cover  with  oiled  paper.    Bandage  over  all. 

DIARRHOEA  and  DYSENTERY— Give  a  dose  of  castor  oil  or  salts 
at  commencement.  L.  W. 

Menthol  for  Headache  and  Toothache. 

One  ounce  Menthol  crystals  dissolved  in  six  ounces  alcohol.  For  ex- 
ternal application.  J.  W. 

For  ivy  poison  apply  sweet  oil. 

To  Make  Paper  Stick. 

First,  have  the  whitewash  scrapped  off  as  you  would  the  skin  from  a 
potato,  leaving  not  a  flake  behind.  Next  scrub  with  a  stiff  brush  and 
strong  soapsuds,  and  when  the  walls  are  dry  wash  over  with  two  parts 
vinegar  and  one  part  hot  water.  The  acid  should  remove  any  trace  of 
alkali.    Dry  thoroughly  before  you  paper. 


142 


Household  Hints. 

All  vegetables  are  better  cooked  in  soft  water.  If  hard  water  is  used, 
put  in  a  small  pinch  of  soda.  A  little  soda  added  to  turnips,  beets,  peas, 
corn,  squash  and  pumpkins  is  an  improvement.  Pat  rice  on  to  cook  in 
boiling  salted  water.  A  small  piece  of  red  pepper  dropped  into  meat  or 
vegetables  will  aid  greatly  in  killing  the  unpleasant  ordor.  Old  potatoes 
may  be  improved  by  being  soaked  in  cold  water  several  hours  after  peel- 
ing. Take  potatoes  up  as  soon  as  they  are  done.  If  doughnuts  are  cut 
out  an  hour  before  they  are  fried,  they  will  be  much  lighter.  To  make 
chicken  gravy  richer,  add  yolk  of  an  egg.  Gravy  will  be  lumpy  if  the 
thickening  is  poured  in  while  the  pan  is  over  the  fire.  Set  pan  off  until  the 
thickening  is  well  stirred  in,  then  set  it  on  the  fire  and  cook  thoroughly. 
A  spoonful  of  vinegar  put  into  the  water  in  which  meats  or  fowls  are 
boiled,  makes  them  more  tender.  To  poach  eggs,  drop  them  in  boiling 
salted  water  and  they  will  keep  nice  shape.  Margaret  Raper. 

Angel  Food  Cake, 

Whites  of  ten  eggs  if  small  and  nine  if  large,  one  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  extract,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mode — Sift  flour  seven  times  and  sugar 
five  times  measuring  after  being  sifted.  Place  whites  in  a  large  bowl  in 
which  is  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  beat  until  about  half  beaten,  add  cream  tartar 
and  continue  beating  until  stiff  enough  to  stand  alone.  Then  gently  add 
sugar  folding  it  through  the  eggs,  next  add  extract,  then  add  flour  folding 
it  through  same  as  sugar  ;  when  all  are  thoroughly  mixed  place  in  pan  and 
put  in  a  cold  oven,  then  start  a  fire  and  bake  from  forty  to  sixty  minutes 
or  longer  if  necessary.  Frosting  for  cake — One  cup  granulated  sugar,  five 
tablespoonfuls  water,  boil  until  it  will  drop  in  threads  from  a  spoon;  then 
stir  into  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg  until  creamy.  Spread  on  cake  which 
has  been  removed  from  pan  after  standing  in  it  for  one  and  one- half  hours. 

Effie  Cooper. 

For  destroying  moth  or  carpet  bugs,  wash  closet  walls  or  floors  with 
napt.ha,  the  oder  will  very  soon  evaporate. 

Use  a  copper  cent  for  rubbing  paint  from  off  the  windows  after  house 
has  been  painted. 

Squeaking  boots,  drive  a  peg  into  the  middle  of  the  boot  sole. 

Never  cook  canned  vegetables  in  the  liquor  which  comes  in  the  can. 
Open  the  can  an  hour  before  they  are  to  be  used,  pour  contents  into  a  col- 
ander, let  the  liquor  drain  off,  -and  allow  them  to  stand  in  a  bowl  of  cold 
water  to  freshen  until  needed. 


143 


Weights  and  Measures. 

One  cupful  of  butter  weighs  one-half  pound. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  weigh  an  ounce. 

One  cupful  of  wet  or  dry  material  is  half  a  pint. 

Two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar  weigh  one  pound. 

Two  rounded  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  weigh  an  ounce. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  are  equal  to  one  wineglass. 

Two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  weigh  an  ounce. 

One  heaping  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar  weighs  an  ounce. 

Two  ounces  of  unmelted  butter  are  as  larsje  as  an  egg  of  medium  size. 

O  DO 


Table  of  Contents. 


Beverages  Page     7  to  9 

Bread   '*  11  to  15 

Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes             "  15  to  20 

Cakes    "  21  to  46 

Confections   "  47  to  50 

Cheese    "  51  to  52 

Desserts    "*  53  to  58 

Eggs    "  59  to  61 

Ices   "  63  to  66 

Meats   "  67  to  77 

Oysters  and  Fish   "  79  to  82 

Pastry  ,   "  83  to  91 

Pudding   "  93  to  104 

Pickles  and  Catsup   "  105  to  111 

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings. .  "  113  to  120 

Soups    "  121  to  124 

Sandwiches   "  125  to  126 

Vegetables    "  127  to  133 

Miscellaneous   "  133  to  139 

Things  Worth  Knowing   "  139  to  142 

Weights  and  measures    "  143 


We,  the  Committee  from  The  Cosmos  Society,  publishers  of  "The 
Cook's  Friend,"  pride  ourselves  upon  the  advertisements  contained  in  this* 
book.     Tbey  are  first  class  and  we  can  most  cheerfully  recommend  all  of 
them  as  being  just  as  represented. 

Mrs.  Cynthia  Paullin, 

Mrs.  Dillu  A.  Fisher, 

Mrs.  Helen  R.  Cassell, 

Mrs.  Emma  V.  Lambert, 

— Committee. 


144 


Index  to  Advertisements. 


The  Society  publishing  this  book  will  be  especially  grateful  to  their  pa- 
trons, if  they  will  kindly  show  a  preference  in  extending  their  patronage  to 
those  who  so  readily  advertised  in  this  book  and  whose  advertisements  ap- 
pear as  below  indicated: 

Lion  Store  Inside  front  cover. 


B.  W.  Castetter  Page  5 

Miss  Kate  Sowash    "  5 

Line  Sanders   "  5 

J.  W.  Farrell  &  Co.   ''  6 

M.  D.  Hutsonpilar   "  9 

Dr.B.H.Painter   ''  9 

Becker   "  9 

Joe  Fadely  &  Son   "  10 

C.  K.  Moore   "  16 

Royal  Baking  Powder  Co. .  "  18 

O.  P.  Greenlee  &  Son   "  20 

Chas.  C.  Druley    "  20 

Swansdown  Flour   "  28 

The  Fair  '   '*  32 

VanPetten  &  Kerr    "  36 

Rufe  William  &  Son   "  40 

New  Furniture  Store   "  40 

Nichol  Makepeace  &  Co.  . .  "  46 

The  Banner  Store   "  48 

O.  M.  Hodson    52 

Leibhardt  Bros   "  •  54 

Chas.  R.  Riley   "  54 

Big  Four  Barn   "  60 

F.  A.  Wisehart    "  60 

Miller  Bros   "  60 

Scott  &  Dye   "  62 

Witt's  Restaurant   "  62 

Anaerson  Transfer  Co   "  62 

N.  J.  Pilger   "  62 

Bing's  Clothing  House   "  64 

Hotel  Anderson   "  66 


J.  P.  Shoemaker  

W.  A.  McNaughton  Co.  .  . . 
Edmund  Johnson  

A.  S.  Fisher  &  Son   

Musser   

Cassell  Bros  

B.  E.  Goff  &  Sons  

Geo.  L.  Swain   

Middletown  Telephone  Co. . 

Runkel  Bros  

A.  Strauss.  

Everett  Denany  

Ireland  &  Ireland  

W.  D.  Dietzen   

D.  C.  East  &  Sons  

Ed  Ethell  

J.  C.  Daniels  &  Co  

L.  A.  Lawyer  &  Co  

J.  C.  Shields   

The  White  House  

W.  N.  Showalter  

O.  M.  Wisehart  

John  B.  Fink  

Otto  Trittschuh  

Tenth  St.  Barn  

Ora  Sanders  

J.  H.  Carpenter  

Anna  D.  Welsh   

W.  A.  Greenlee  

F.  R.  Hensbaw   

Farmers'  State  Bank  


page 

'  5 

66 
68 

5  1 

68 

5  5 

74 

?  5 

74 

)  5 

74 

)  5 

74 

?  ) 

80 

5  5 

80 

5  5 

80 

?  > 

1  84 

5  5 

92 

5  5 

92 

5  5 

92 

92 

i  5 

96 

J  5 

96 

5  5 

100 

?  5 

108 

5  5 

108 

5  5 

108 

5  J 

116 

5  5 

120 

5  5 

120 

5  5 

122 

5  5 

122 

5  5 

122 

5  5 

124 

?  ? 

124 

?  5 

126 

5  ? 

128 

)  5 

128 

J.  W.  Farrell  &  Co. 
C.  L.  Bender  &  Co.. 


. .  Inside  back  cover. 
Outside  back  cover. 


k  \ 

X  TRY  I 

I  Chase  &  Sanborn's  | 

^  High  Grade  J 

J  Coffees  ...  $ 

I  * 

S  Because   /the    best  cook  in  ir 

V  the  world  can't  make  a  good  > 

^  cup  of  coffee  of   poor  ma-  ^ 

^  terial.  ^ 

4  BUY!  ^ 

^  At  FARRELL'S   Grocery.  5 

^  because   they  are  the  Sole  ^ 

Agents  for  this  city.  ^ 

J  J.  W.  FARRELL  &  C0\ 

%  I 


Bops'  *  Children's 


The  Swellest,  Smartest,  Snappiest,  Cutest  Styles  in 
Boy's  and  Children's  Clothing  you  will  find  in 


Suits  and  Overcoats  & 


For  Big  Boys,  Medium  Sized  Boys  and  Little 
Fellows.  You  will  find  garments  here  that  the 
boys  will  be  proud  to  wear  and  that  you  will  be 
proud  to  have  them  wear. 

SUITS  4 

For  the  large  boys  who  wear  short  pants,  we 
have  the  3-piece  vest  suits,  also  the  double- 
breasted  suit,  new  fabrics  and  new  design. 
For  smaller  boys  the  best  styles  are  the  Blouse, 
the  Norfolk  Suits  and  the  Russian  Blouse.  All 
as  handsome  as  little  boy?s  clothes  can  be  made. 
If  you  wish  to  select  the  boy's  clothes  from  the 
finest  line  in  Muncie,  bring  him  here. 


MUNCIE. 

INDIANA. 


C.L.  BENDER  Co.  * 


i 

j 

i 

I 


Deacidified  using  the  Bookkeeper  process. 
Neutralizing  agent:  Magnesium  Oxide 
Treatment  Date:  June  201 2 

PreservationTechnologies 

A  WORLD  LEADER  IN  COLLECTIONS  PRESERVATION 

111  Thomson  Park  Drive 
Cranberry  Township,  PA  16066 
(724)779-2111 


CHOCOLATE  ICE  BOX  CAKE 


it  'vhipping 

aYo'-mclTspring-form  pan  with  halved  lady 
Cover  the  bottom  with  lady  fingers.  Pre- 
ig  the  marshmallows  and  chocolate  with  the 
double  boiler  until  both  are  melted,  and  shr 
'israooth     Remove  from  stove  and  cool  thoroughly, 
eat  until  stiff  one-half  cup  of  the  whipping  cream  and 
old  into  the  chocolate  mixture.    Pour  half  this  fivtn 
layer  of  lady  fingers, 


Recipe— Three  do 
mallows,  %  teaspoon 
Line  the  side 
s.  rounded  sides 
pare  the  filling  by  stc 


cold. 


overnight. 


remaining  chocolate 


Today's  Vitality  Menu 

Breakfast 
Apple  Sauce 
Whole  Wheat  Waffle 


Luncheon 

Waldorf  Sala 
Toasted  Crisp  E 
Beverage  if  De! 


Cranberry  Juice 
Spanish  Omelet 
Spinach        Scalloped  Potato 
Cabbage,  Carrot  and  Raisin 
Salad 
Demi-tasse 


Parker  House  Rolls 

One  tablespoon  sugar,  three  i 
one-half  cups  sifted  cake  fl 
(about),  one  tablespoon  short 
ing,  one  cup  milk,  scalded;  one 
cake  compressed  yeast, 
three-fourths  teaspoon  salt 

Add  sugar  to  milk,  cool 
warm,  add  yeast  and  stir  until 
smooth.  Add  one-half  of  flour, 
then  egg,  salt  and  softened  short- 
ening, beating  well.  Add  remain- 
ing flour  (enough  to  make  as  soft 
a  dough  as  can  be  handled). 
Knead  gently  until  smooth.  Place 
in  greased  bowl,  cover  and 
in  warm  place  until  double  i 
Roll  one-third  inch  thick 
with  floured  cutter  into  o 

circles  and 


