from . 


1T76~1959 





THE LIBRARY OF THE 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NORTH CAROLINA 





THE COLLECTION OF 
NORTH CAROLINIANA 
PRESENTED BY 


Mary Avera Wynne 


pI CADET PETIOLES PE IP REAL PNT GLEE LE TESS I I SE BA A A EN FA REN SLE 


0641.5 
W9Ee 


This book must not 
be taken from the 
Library building. 


in 


Form No. 471 


~A COOK BOOK 
TREASURED RECIPES 


FROM 
American and Foreign Kitchens 
AND 


Many Original Recipes 


TESTED AND APPROVED 
FROM 
1776 TO 1959 


Compiled by 
(MRS.) MARY AVERA WYNNE 
1959 


Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2021 with funding from 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


https://archive.org/details/cookbookoftreasu00wynn 


THE STORY OF THE BOOK 


When this book comes from the publishers, I will have passed my 87th 
birthday. I was born May 6, 1872. 


January 6, 1955, I was in my 82nd year when the tragic misfortune of 
falling and breaking my left hip happened to me. The bone has never heal- 
ed, so I became a hopeless cripple and wheel chair patient for the remainder 
of my life, I fear. What a dire calamity to happen to an 82-year-old person 
who had always been very active and independent. What did the future 
hold in store for me! 


Several weeks after I left the hospital, I came to a Rest Home to live and 
soon began to realize that my life savings were rapidly diminishing and 
that I must make an effort to increase my income. I got the job of dieti- 
cian for the Home, but this was not sufficient—I was terribly discouraged. 


Soon afterwards I read in the paper that a great dietician had suffered 
the same misfortune that I had. She needed funds, too, so decided to com-: 
pile her wonderful recipes into a cook book. The result—the book was a 
great success and brought comfort and security to her through her declin- 
ing years. 


Could I be as lucky as she had been? At least I could make every possi- 
ble effort to do so and began plans to put my many recipes to work. I 
wrote to friends in almost every state asking for their help by sending me 
their most treasured recipes. The requests were answered overwhelming- 
ly. Not only did they send theirs, but they wrote their friends to help me, 
too. They came from far and near—even from many foreign countries. 


Food had been my hobby for over sixty years. I had simply hoarded 
recipes. I also had my mother’s and grandmother’s; even some from 
“Godey’s Ladies’ Book,” one of the oldest women’s magazines in America. 
With pen and ink I copied almost every one of the recipes in this book— 
some so old they could hardly be handled. Then I turned them over to my 
capable typist to finish the prospectus for the publishers. 


My deepest appreciation to all who so generously shared their most treas- 
ured recipes with me and trusting that this book may be treasured by all 
who try it. 


Gratefully yours, 
THE AUTHOR. 


FFI 2X 4G 


The editor and publisher of this book, and all homemakers who enjoy 
better living from using it, are deeply indebted to the following organiza- 
tions for aiding in its preparation with technical information and advice. 


Ladies Home Journal 

Good Housekeeping 

McCalls 

Hollands 

Proctor and Gamble 

American Canning Association 
National Live Stock and Meat Board 
Fisheries Council 

General Foods Corporation 
Pillsbury Flour Mills 

Fleishman Yeast Company 
National Bakeries Association 
United Fruit Growers tenon 


‘ / 
/ 


( “ 5 it (ff L ha 
ae 


ome, f 
_ ree? f 


~ 


4 


{/ ee -. y ; ie 
A en on yy ro Y i tn oo 
Lge = f f ' i Ly Ce. CA A a t- ng d ; 


$e 
Minny bre wd L€ 5 
j . ey ff sy € ff } Ve 7 & £ ff ‘ft A 
/ g » f f f ‘4 . je ( f f f Ze A r ? it eK hot a 
- , ¢ o be f < ’ fo, f bg 
hd ¥ 7 rae ff sail f? : § e 
y ¥ / 
f} 
if 4 Vira o's , j. ( 
ist fi J A} P J — 
g z | ¢ Lf z 
3 
; y -; yD ¢ a 
é . 3 / é f f . ‘ f , 4 & é re 
Sin A fs y } ee 
A Ar ) Jf f ¢ 4 
Fay a — 4 
(i Od F a iy | hf ; Hs Z - ry 
w ~ ¥ F we Pon A 
L- A bait / q 
: an TO Ae MO Ae ee Ve ec 
a i f L >, . f \ Wf Wes b- 4. 4 bE: L ie & Bernsen 
f “| f a { Pas P ff ox we 
ff k Ys <j f ~~ f - 


DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY _ 


A LA CARTE: A French expression meaning “according to the bill of 
fare.” An a la carte menu lists the price of each item, and the meal is 
chosen dish by dish. 


A LA CREOLE: Cooked with tomatoes, onions and peppers. 


A LA KING: Meat or fowl served in a sauce to which mushrooms and 
pimientos or green peppers have been added. 


A LA MODE: According to the prevailing fashion. Pie a la mode— 
served with a mound of ice cream—is a favorite American dessert. Beef 
prepared in this manner usually is braised and simmered. 


A LA PRINTANIERE: A soup or stew served with young spring veg- 
etables. 


ALA REINE: Literally cooked “according to the queen’s taste.” Soup 
made this way contains the white meat of chicken pounded and rubbed into 


a pulp. 

AU GRATIN: Any dish prepared with grated bread crumbs or cheese— 
usually the latter. 

AU JUS: Meat served in its juices or cooked in stock. 


BAIN-MARIE: A vessel containing hot water in which other vessels 
containing foods are placed to keep hot without further cooking. Literally 
a double boiler on a large scale. 


BRAISED: From French braise, meaning live coal. A brazier is a pan 
for holding burning coals. 


BECHAMEL: A rich white sauce made with stock, milk or cream. 
BISQUE: A thick white sauce or soup generally made from shellfish. 
BLANCH: ‘To whiten by scalding. 


BOUILLON: A meat broth. 

BOMBE: Moulded ices having the outside one variety and the centre 
another. 

BOUQET OF HERBS: A bunch of various flavoring herbs, used for 
soups or stews. 


CANAPE: A finger strip of bread or toast spread with a savory com- 
pound, usually either fish or egg, daintily garnished and served as an appe- 


tizer before lunch or dinner. 
5 


COMPOTE: From Latin compositus, hence a composed mixture-—usual- 
ly of stewed fruit. 


CONSOMME: The French for consumed, i.e., a strong broth slowly 
boiled for a long time, so the nourishment of the meat is consumed, or 
consomme. 


~CROUSTADES: Small pieces of bread, fried or toasted. Used as a 
garnish for minced or hashed meat. 


CROUTONS: The related French word for crusts. 


DE LA MAISON: A specialty of the restaurant. A dish made from 
the chef’s own recipe. 


DEMITASSE: French for half (demi) and cup (tasse). It’s a small 
cupful of black coffee served at the end of the meal. 


DU JOUR: Literally, of the day. So a special dish for a particular 
day. 


EN BROCHETTE: Small portions of meat, such as chicken livers, 
cooked with bacon on a skewer. 


ENTREE: A savory made dish served as a course itself, or between 
heavier ocurses ,at dinner. 


ENTREMETS: French mets is derived from Latin missus, a course at 
ameal. So entre (between) mets are side dishes of relish or sweetmeats 
served with or after the principal dish. 


FARCI: Stuffed. 

FONDUE: Cheese and eggs cooked together. 
FRAPPE: Half frozen. 
FROMAGE: French for cheese. 


GLACE: Comes from Latin glacies, ice, and refers to any frozen des- 
sert, usually ice cream or sherbet. Glace fruit is glazed or candied, and 
cake served this way is coated with icing. 


HORS-D OEUVRES: Small dishes served during the first course of a 
dinner. 


JARDINIERE: Mixed vegetables. 


LARD: To insert strips of fat pork or bacon in meats deficient in fat, 
with a larding needle. 


LEGUME: French for vegetables. Latin legumen is anything that 
may be gathered. It refers to the fruit or seed of. any edible plant. 


MACEDOINE: : A mixture of vegetables or fruit. 
6 


MARINATE: To make savory in a mixture of seasonings: oil and vin- 
egar, or oil and lemon juice. 


MERINGUE: White of egg and sugar beaten together. 


MOUSSE: May be savory or sweet. A light, frothy mixture thickened 
with gelatin, whipped with a whisk till spongy in texture and then packed 
in ice and salt for three or four hours. 


MULLIGATAWNY: A rich soup flavored with curry. 


PATE: A small pastry shell, usually made from puff paste. May con- 
tain either a sweet or savory filling. 


PETITE MARMITE: French for “little pot.” This soup, made of 
brown stock and cooked with a few large pieces of vegetable or meat, 
usually is served in a small earthenware pot, or marmite. 


PETITS FOURS: Almost always served at the end of a banquet with 
a demitasse; literally meaning ‘“‘little ovens,” thus little baked things, or 
cakes. The word four is related to our word furnace. 


POISSON: French for fish, which follows the soup. 


POTAGE: French. In contrast with consomme, it is a thick soup, some- 
times topped with pieces of bread. 


PUREE: Meats, vegetables, fish, etc. cooked in liquid until tender, then 
passed through a sieve. 


RAGOUT: Literally, a dish seasoned to arouse one’s appetite or appeal 
to one’s taste. 

ROUX: A cooked mixture of butter and flour for thickening soups, 
sauces and gravies. 

SALMI: A rich stew of game, half roasted and then cut up and cooked 
in a sauce. 

SAUTE: To cook till brown in a shallow pan with a little fat. 

SOUFFLE: Puffed up and made light by use of well-beaten eggs. May 
be savory or sweet. 

TABLE D HOTE: English translation is “table of the landlord.” A 
restaurant meal of several courses for which you pay a fixed price no mat- 
ter what you order. Compare with a la carte. 

-VOLAILLE: French; related to Latin vole, to fly, and reasonably 
enough, means poultry or fowl. 

VOL-AU-VENT: A very light case of puff paste in which savories or 
sweets may be served. 


KITCHENS AND EQUIPMENTS THEN AND NOW 


If the hands of time could be turned back two hundred or more years, 
most kitchens would be found with the following equipment: 


First the kitchens were large, 20 feet long, 16 feet wide and were built 
forty or fifty feet from the “Big House”. 


A brick walk thirty inches wide connected the house and kitchen and 
prevented dirt and mud from being tracked inside. Every kitchen had a 
large chimney fireplace where the cooking was done—its dimensions were 
5 feet wide, 414 feet high and 3 feet deep. 


A heavy rod was built crosswise in it and several rods with hooks on 
them were suspended from it to hang the pots of different sizes on for 
cooking boiled foods, heating water for washing dishes, light laundry and 
other needs. A large bed of embers from oak wood was kept under these 
pots when cooking, ironing, roasting corn and corn pone. 


All utensils were made of heavy cast iron. Three or four skillets of dif- 
ferent sizes, about 5 inches deep, with legs approximately 5 inches long, 
also with heavy lids, with embers burning under and on top, made the 
ovens for baking bread, cakes, pies and other foods. A heavy frying pan 
also waffle iron with long handles were other utensils used to prevent the 
intense heat from burning the cooks. Earthenware bowls, discovered by 
the Indians, were used for mixing purposes. 


Long and short handled wooden spoons were the mixing utensils. One 
long handled fork, one or two butcher knives and one small paring knife 
were about all the equipment used except a mortar and pestle used for crack- 
ing corn for hominy and breaking up coffee. 


It was many years before coffee mills were invented. Such a product 
as roasted coffee sold in stores had never been heard of in those days. 
Coffee was first shipped to this country in the green bean stage, roasted in 
the kitchens in two or three cup quantities, but in a tight container and 
beaten up for each meal. Later when coffee mills could be had, it was 
ground for each meal. 


Statistics say the first cook stove was invented in 1800—however, only 
a few were available until a long period of time thereafter. Almont all 
Colonial homes were built with basements, so when cook stoves could be 
bought, brick floors were laid in these basements and the new stoves in- 
stalled, which was the beginning of indoor cooking. 


Following this period science has discovered m 
generally called “Push Button” appliances. 


8 


any fabulous devices— 
Every possible convenience 


seems to have been included in these wonderful discoveries—wood, coal, 
gas, oil and electric stoves, wall ovens, dishwashers, garbage disposals, hot 
water heaters, washing machines, refrigerators, deep-freezers and many 
other smaller useful contrivances. | 


_ Equipment for these modern kitchens should include the following arti- 
cles which could be very useful to brides and other interested housekeepers. 


1 large covered pan—6 to 10 quart size. 

1 double boiler with 2 to 3 quart bottom. 

2 saucepans—1 and 2 quart sizes. 

2 frying pans—10 inch size with cover and 7 inch size. 

1 large roasting pan, uncovered, with rack—12 to 15 inches aie 10 to 
12 inches wide, and 2 to 3 inches deep. 

1 to 2 casseroles—one the 2 quart size. 

2 cake pans 8 or 9 inch round layer pans. 

1 or 2 pie pans 8 or 9 inch size. 

1 teakettle 2 or 3 quart size. 

1 or 2 cookie sheets—large size. 

2 sets of measuring cups—!,cup to 1 cup sizes for dry measure; 1 and 
2 cup sizes for liquid measure. 

1 set of mixing bowls—2 cups to 4 quarts graduated sizes. 
6 knives: large chef or butcher knife, carving knife, slicer, utility knife, 
and 2 paring knives. 

2 flour sifters—1 cup and 5 cup capacities. 

2 strainers—1 tea size; 1 large enough to double as a colander. 

1 rolling pin with stockinet cover. 

1 egg beater. 

1 food chopper. 

1 grater or set of graters. 


1 small reamer for lemon juice (if you have an electric mixer with a 
reamer attachment, or if you use frozen fruit juices, you won’t need the 
larger size used for oranges, etc.) 


1 set of measuring spoons. 

2 spatulas—one long and narrow; one short and wide (also called a pan- 
cake turner). 

1 ladle. 

1 cooking fork. 

1 large spoon, solid or perforated. 

1 potato masher. 

1 can opener—ideally a wall type with a bracket that also holds other 
tools. 


9 


1 meat thermometer. 
1 pressure cooker 6 to 8 quart size. 


Assorted small tools—rubber spatulas, pastry or blending fork, wooden 
spoon, all-purpose brush, glass or plastic refrigerator dishes. 


In addition to cooking equipment, you’ll need a certain amount of kitchen 
linen. We think a minimum supply should consist of : 


6 linen towels for drying glasses. 

6 heavier cotton towels for drying china, silver, etc. 
6 dishcloths. 

3 potholders. 


CONTENTS 


SEE EES Umer srr sans oe tenses sas eens ce ssss cost acuateeedaresecaccscsadesgrirenesheneere ek IPQ 
AURIS (OS SRE a ae BOYD 
BreadSjpcee. eeu: ie hen ebweesaeeuadoseeee testes ehyisaruLccbcutatatesneneicasuasescesatauclseeteustseesss 2D 
Calories -........:.. Ce eeereee enedibn nace conktenn eet h eee Niles TS Tae 287 
andpesteete...- Reece leet Aen sth enighinee Eee on ae es cee ax SEDEMIVEETS 
OOO SE oe ee susteeees 0 246 
fir rete, 8 t ioe tc scared, scacdoe beets one .acaezteedesuchsscatiesasesseceesaselcend bitestues 301 
A Ie eee rots coisas oaths ale odes ek 37 
Re oe ae elects chy cyect ot oe cs ceca etka Late obecb tac eseasiecseesvenseccesasedeonee. 104 
CGE CS | DYES gf ga ee ea acusbeactesucieseseneyy. SO 104 
MRTG) aS? 1 Te Si eeheecuewandentehanekstiecentositheneseteuae su 115 
Ce tah Ee ge aeeee tae cure Ue ne sc ye les ene cuee dices cdehttree. EMU 21 
“Ca SERS Pees seiciy ehetees lick aca e EM LOT 
(COE ES ere et ee ee ee 7 | 
Bree a ciometopitemian Of COOkery 2.1 :.2.--c5s..daescseeec tc cce cick sabe cecessecendeneisa Soe lt ele 5 
CYS SURE ha) 7 Sao re 217 
CYT CESUTE ES secs ERS Se 212 
EPC SHIES ie: attgioshec.easezicacsssavsicsess queegeptewacstateyesseeteccacasezis2eees2"s ite Sete 108 
Sat IE eMac eee ce ene ee Ce eats e wou suns ee ERE Ee SAGs eee moe 13 
ol tele ee ere eeee MY ferret iri eter eee azascsuscisecss Serer patel rs. seme 37. 
SOE cc ee tt ea ners ere shel Ruy ade auasebuelsaetenueavalseeseee 163 
sy LMR ED ae oo RaK see Moar ce aes ey eke oc ies Lucess eit ve alu dese volvovussecuaeseseseeteuuces 121 
GIS S 2 a aes pe Boe ceo er oes aero epee er ne 37 
COE SEES oR ee Pee EE Te PR Dt Ce een muna eA... 121 
GrovieSm tie ete Bes ore Oa pep sea aN Me ed RR ARGS 16] 
PIO EDSON ODIC CS tac sco eepeen ea seretne tn tec ewes aeee et asas tesa eet «Mtoe ee 307 
Sener al sYel (ol Ja (6 cp eee oreo ere ere eppry Herne er Ey CREEP EER Er anh oe mE hs 293 


CONTENTS—(Continued) 


jee Gredams cree eee ee Sec ak aaa MEE Oe cae Ben YS RROR. A EEC eas 230 
[Casper es Cae, EN Se ER, SU te SUM Ea SRP ARIES, Doh, Aon ts 230 
ot ahs fry A mepeeed a ea ep ert nae cis Le cue tN RSAC SANES here eae ty See _ 67 
Ue] gt Sophos RRL le debe ase Mote piel ili rym aie be ii aati ibe eRae peer chante hbe bres by: 252 
PONIGS tee. ttc eae: Sipe atl Ri ata ROL ACR Oe eg 254 
ICON EQUIDINIENT Sisco tei ocynprecetanececaceecoeete ear ke ere eeareeee rev cravye see 8 
BACT CI tect fave foc cck ey crcl cock pce nblateestaceea ries cesoretene tent cet reecsteeet fee ae 259 
DRABOES pene reer os el ela ce Law's ner pede wea uadneus tte Caen ten On en an nee 138 
PINES Cig sector ere aces doko nceGeucee)acuaceteaid eo creeete seater ene eet ec tert ath, oan ene ae 296 
Miscellaneous and/Foreign Dishes........2cc:cces-ccevestcseseectee estes eter ee 273 
IWOUISSOS Oooo ecco es occ cy cen secvisccegedecer beck isiaddice Cipater tere eget oe oe 230 
OSI TICS ono oss en te ten cere sennccntuertssccacccheetenuasacpyss isco Ueeteni ta tse ae ee 9] 
IOS Bee ec easter yyisekerc coer vevies ice leceorenccrt ies Pee eT ee 95 
RUCCINOS cose ceccs teectesras certs asks cecaccuae este oeeee cies 1 peeeereee.e eens nee e237 
2a 1 a (CE Er or pron ene ne en pe pM HAE ARREARS LAE) Ripped lby meee saees 262 
ROU HIRV get eee mene er erent Beets ecitenss teeveteaccs a eeune parte tees ect ee 12] 
BYOSGIVeS fo oecocerrosparsgccanceetcsvers<ssbestesccontacazessestve WORE te. ee eee 255 
RGUSHOS stgeet ees tcc. 2 ree oe cong oder s ata) fea tees erect ene ee 267 
CIOS Upc eetede rie easte  celecenercgsciecet seca r seers: cl sett Aveta ee oe 194 
SONIOWICNGS soe ce niet ee eee ee sy eae ee 208 
BOI C CS eee ee dace ears, aceite ch totes sc tee ee Sugeno ee 201 
SEOTOONS a hen. rte ee occa see tee ees an ee an te ee ee 169 
MET DOUS! goo tects eaten cones hue. et een, tee ee Cee ce One oe 230 
OTIS 5 np santio ace tut heeritee ester carer ce pes eee Umno re te een nes 2 115 
MEQGtODICS oe veel swul, eecuticalecispss cocy eee re eee are eee eee 182 
VAT GIIS Secor sonia fecapteseen cesta, evel eer enema a or See ee ee) ee 295 
Wisights and IMecsures fis ess tree ces cte mee enna, ee 294 
MIDIS arose fu cs woos Soncanetensteaie thvcrys seater kar) a anes ane pe p70. 


APPETIZERS AND CANAPES 


eS 


ADMIRAL’S GOLDEN BUCK 


1 Ib. grated American sharp cheese 1 tablespoon Worcester sauce 


1 egg VQ coffee spoon (scant) cayenne 
1 tablespoon butter pepper 
1g teaspoon salt 2 dozen rounds of thinly sliced bread 


Mix cheese, butter and raw egg together. Add seasonings, cover and put 
in refrigerator. When ready to serve, toast the rounds of bread to straw 
color. Spread the mixture on the rounds and run under the flame of the gas 
stove for three minutes until cheese melts. The mixture will keep for 
days. It may be spread on the toasted bread rounds sometime before serving 
if desired, and the whole heated just before serving. 


ANCHOVY 
T can (2 oz.) anchovy — Thin-sliced bread 
fillets Pimento 


Parsley-Butter: Cream 14 cup soft butter or margarine with 2 tablespoons 
minced parsley and | teaspoon lemon juice. Stack 4 or 5 slices of bread; trim 
crusts; cut in 1 x 214 inch lengths. Toast on one side; spread the untoasted 
side with Parsley-Butter; arrange sleaaleaen fillet on top. Decorate with pimen- 
to. (16 canapes.) i. 


Anchovy-Cheese: Blend | Atlee (3 oz.) cream cheese with 14 tablespoon 
anchovy paste (more if desired). Spread on toast rounds. Garnish with curl- 
ed anchovy. Substitute sardine, lobster, shrimp or crabmeat paste. (24 
canapes.) | 


ANCHOVY CANAPES 


Make rounds of toast, spread with sweet butter, season with salt, pepper 
and mustard to taste. Arrange anchovy fillets on these in form of a rosette 
or across. Garnish it with finely chopped parsley. Press the yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg, and some of the white as well, through a sieve and arrange it ina 
ring around the edges of the rounds. 


13 


14 APPETIZERS AND CANAPES 


AVOCADO DIP 


1 cup of avocado pulp 1 (8 oz.) package cream cheese 
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 teaspoon finely chopped onion 
3 teaspoons lemon juice 


Blend well and serve with crackers, potato chips, or small triangle sand- 
wiches. 


CANAPES 


Trim crusts; cut in varied shapes. Toast lightly on both sides or on one 
side only—as preferred. Spread untoasted side with soft butter, margarine, 
mayonnaise or savory butter; then with prepared mixture. 


Give them a festive appearance with contrasting colorful garnishes. Use 
chopped and sliced olives, grated raw carrot, chopped pickle, pimento, green 
pepper, mint parsley, finely chopped hard-cooked egg whites, sieved egg yolk, 
etc. Put through the pastry bag for flutings and crescents. 


CANAPES EGYPTIANS 


Chip beef cut in small pieces 3 teaspoons mayonnaise 
3 teaspoons catsup 


Mix the above together with a dash of cayenne pepper added. Serve on 
round pieces of toast or crackers. 


CHEESE-OLIVE CANAPES 


1 cup cottage cheese 1 tsp. grated onion 
‘4 cup olive spread or chopped pimento 
olives bread 


Sieve cottage cheese and mix with chopped olives. . Toast rounds of bread 
on both sides. Spread with soft butter or margarine. Place on round of 
cheese on toast. Garnish with pimento. Makes 30 canapes. 


CHICKEN LIVER 


Mix 1 cup finely ground cooked chicken livers with 14 teaspoon grated 
onion, 14, cup mayonnaise, salt, pepper and cream to moisten. Spread on 
bread or toast strips. Garnish with parsley. Makes 30 canapes. 


APPETIZERS AND CANAPES 15 


CHICKEN OR TURKEY 


14 cup chopped cooked chicken 3 tablespoons mayonnaise 

or turkey salt and pepper 
2 hard cooked eggs few grains cayenne | 
2 teaspoons lemon juice pimento stuffed olive | Zo 


1 tablespoon cream 


Mix chicken, finely-chopped egg white, lemon juice, cream, mayonnaise, 
and seasonings. Spread toasted rounds of bread with soft butter or marga- 
rine and chicken mixture. Dip canapes lightly in sieved egg yolk. Garnish 
with sliced pimento olives. (Makes 30 canapes.) 


CRAB CANAPES 


1 cup flaked (3 oz.) crabmeat Dash of tabasco sauce 
2 hard cooked eggs Salt and pepper 

1 teaspoon lemon juice Ripe olives or capers 
2 tablespoons mayonnaise Cream cheese 

14 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce Bread 


Mix crabmeat with chopped egg and seasonings. Cut bread with diamond 
cutter; toast and spread with soft butter and crab mixture. Decorate with 
cream cheese (blend 14 cup cream cheese with 2 tbsp. mayonnaise and 14, 
tsp. Worcestershire sauce); put through pastry bag. Garnish. (Makes 24 
canapes.) : 


CRAB MEAT PASTE 


1 Ib. crab meat 1 tsp. grated onion 
1 tsp. horseradish 


Remove all pieces of shell from crab meat; cooked or canned. Add enough 
mayonnaise to make a workable paste. Blend in horseradish and onion. 
Serve on buttered toast cut in 114 inch strips. 


CREAM CHEESE DIP 


2 packages cream cheese (8 oz.) 14 teaspoon onion salt 
1 tablespoon mayonnaise 14 teaspoon garlic salt 
1 teaspoon tabasco sauce 


Cream all together. Use on potato chips or crackers. 


16 APPETIZERS AND CANAPES 


DEVILED HAM HORSERADISH 


Blend 1 can (3 oz.) deviled ham with 1 tsp. prepared mustard. Spread on 
buttered toast cuts. Mix 1 package cream cheese (3 oz.) with 1 tbsp. grated 
horseradish, and 2 tbsp. mayonnaise. Put through pastry bag and decorate 
with crescents. Makes 24 canapes. 


DEVILED LOBSTER 


1 cup flaked lobster Salt and pepper 
14 tsp. grated onion Pimento 

1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce Watercress 

14 tsp. prepared mustard Thin-sliced bread 


Mix flaked lobster with next 5 ingredients. Cut break with fancy cutters 
(star, crescent, heart, etc.) Toast one side; spread untoasted side with soft 
butter; then with lobster mixture. Garnish with small cuts of pimento or 
watercress. If desired, brush edge with mayonnaise and dip in mixture of 
finely chopped hard-cooked egg white and minced parsley. Makes 20 
canapes. 


DEVILED SARDINE CANAPE 


First skin and bone a can of sardines, or better still use the boned variety. 
Place them in a well buttered pan; add 14 tsp. Worcestershire sauce; 14 tsp. 
mustard. Bake for 10 minutes and serve hot on toast rounds. 


DEVILED TONGUE 
1 cup ground cooked beef tongue 2 tbsp. salad dressing 
1 tbsp. grated horseradish Bread 
1 tbsp. pickle relish Pimento-Olives 


1 tsp. worcestershire sauce 


Combine tongue, horseradish, pickle relish and worcestershire sauce: add 
salad dressing for spreading consistency. Trim crutsts of bread; cut in strips 
and toast meee on one side. Spread untoasted side with soft butter or mar- 
garine and tongue mixture. Garnish with lengthwise strips of stuff i 
Makes 24 canapes. ‘ Uueqolives: 


HAM CHEESE SPREAD 


214 oz. deviled ham 1 8 oz. package cream cheese 
2 tsp. chopped pimento 4 tsp. A-I sauce 
14 cup mayonnaise Salt and pepper to taste 


Mix above ingredients together and serve it cheese bi t 
with i r rit 
k ; iscuits or ritz 


APPETIZERS AND CANAPES | | Lo, 


HOT MUSHROOM 
1 cup chopped mushrooms 1 tbsp. salad dressing 
2 tbsp. butter Thin-sliced bread 
14 cup ground cooked ham Stuffed olives 
1 tbsp. pepper relish Pimento 


_ Pimento-Butter: Cream 4 tbsp. soft butter or margarine with 2 tbsp. sieved 
pimento. 


Saute mushrooms in butter 5 minutes; add ham and cook 3 minutes; stir 
in pepper relish and salad dressing. Spread on toast rounds of bread. Bake 
in hot oven (450°F) for 3 to5 minutes. Garnish with sliced olives and pimento 
strips. Makes 30 canapes. 


MINCED CHICKEN 


114 cup minced cooked chicken l, cup mayonnaise 
1 hard-cooked egg | Salt and pepper 
14 tsp. grated onion Bread 


Combine minced chicken, sieved hard-cooked egg, seasonings and mayon- 
naise. Spread bread with soft butter or margarine; add filling and cover 
with buttered bread. Trim crust; cut in small squares, triangles, strips, etc. 
or cut bread with fancy cutters. Makes about 75 sandwiches. 


PATE DE FOIE GRAS BISCUITS WITH BACON 


Small biscuits Pate de foie gras 
Bacon Cream 


Make the biscuits very small and light, preferably the size of a quarter or 
half-dollar. Have the bacon very crisp and chip it finely. Mix the pate de 
foie gras with a little cream to moisten it. Open the biscuits and spread one 
side with bacon bits, the other with the pate. Press the halves together and 
it can share the honors of any cocktail. 


PATE PAYSAN 


Calf’s liver Mayonnaise 
Hard boiled eggs Salt, pepper, cayenne 


Cook the liver and chip it very fine; chop the hard-boiled eggs. Mix both 
with the mayonnaise, season highly. Spread the mixture on thin crispy 
toasted rounds of bread, garnishing with powdered egg yolk. 


18 APPETIZERS AND CANAPES 


18 CCC APPETIZERS AND OOOO 


PIERRE’S APPETIZER 


1 Philadelphia cream cheese 14 tsp. worcestershire sauce 
1 small can anchovies (mashed) Cayenne fo taste 
114 tsp. capers (mashed) 2 or more tbsp. cream or milk 


VY, tsp. grated onion 


Cream the cheese with cream. Add other ingredients. Serve on round 
salted crackers. 


PITTED OLIVES WRAPPED IN BACON 


Wrap olives in bacon and broil. Oysters and shrimp can be served the 
same way. Spear with toothpicks when ready to serve. 


ROQUEFORT CHEESE 


4, Ib. Roquefort cheese 4 cup pecans chopped fine 
2 teaspoons mayonnaise Rounds of rye bread cut very small 


Mash and cream the cheese with mayonnaise. Toast bread on one side, 
butter untoasted side. Cover with cheese, sprinkle nuts on top. Brown and 
serve at once. 


SHRIMP CHEESE SPREAD 


1 Ib. shrimp ; 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
1 glass container of cheese 1 tablespoon worcestershire sauce 
, cup mayonnaise 


Clean, wash and boil shrimp. Remove black veins and tails. Cut up in 
small bits. Add 14 cup mayonnaise to cheese, make a smooth paste; ag 
shrimp, lemon juice and worcestershire sauce. Serve on crackers or t 
cut in small pieces. Makes about 20 servings. pre 


BEVERAGES 


SS 


APRICOT FIZZ 


1 oz. apricot brandy Juice of 14 lime 
Juice of 12 lemon 1 tablespoon syrup 
1 lump of ice 


Fill glass with White Rock. This makes one serving. Make as many as 
needed. 


BUDGET CHAMPAGNE PUNCH 


10 large lemons 1 qt. club soda 
6 large oranges 1 qt. rum 
2 Ibs. sugar 


Squeeze lemons and oranges and add sugar and soda with the rum. Pour 
over blocks of ice in punch bowl. Garnish with bunches of grapes. Will 
serve 20. 


CHERRY BOUNCE 


1 gal. wild cherry alcohol or brandy Simple syrup 


Half fill jug with cherries, then fill with alcohol. Cork it and leave for six 
months. Drain off leaving the cherries in the jug. Sweeten the Cherry 
bounce with syrup (2 cups of sugar with | cup of water). 


A milder cherry bounce may be made by adding some brandy to the cher- 
ries and after three months add syrup. 


EGG NOG 
1 doz. eggs 2 qts. vanilla ice cream 
1 cup of sugar 1 qt. apple brandy 


1 pint of whipping cream 


Beat eggs separately. Add brandy to beaten egg yolks, add sugar, beat 
well. Blend in stiffly beaten egg whites, and finally add stiffly beaten cream. 
Stir in ice cream and chill. More sugar may be added if desired. Serves 25. 


Li 


20 BEVERAGES 


FRUIT PUNCH 


2 46 oz. cans pineapple juice 3 cups sugar 

2 46 oz. cans orange juice 3 large bottles ginger ale 

1 doz. lemons 2 gts. rum 

Squeeze juice from lemons, boil rinds 5 minutes in 2 qts. water, strain and 
melt sugar in water. Add all contents together and chill. Serves 25. For 


smaller numbers, use half the recipe. 


GINGER ALE PUNCH 


2 cups lime juice 2 large bottles ginger ale 
4 cups lemon juice 


In large punch bowl, put 14 gal. hard frozen pineapple sherbet. Pour over 
it the lime juice, lemon juice and ginger ale. 


HONDURAS COCKTAIL 


8 oz. gin 1 dessert spoon of sugar 
5 oz. vermouth 1 oz. absinthe 

5 drops bitters 1 oz. creme de cacao 
juice of 1 lemon 14 oz. benedictine 
Shake!!! 


HOT CRANBERRY PUNCH 


1 Ib. cranberry jelly ; 4 whole cloves 

_ 2 cups apple juice | 4 tsp. ground cloves 
2 cups pineapple juice _ Juice of 2 oranges or 
2 cups water | me 1 cup of orange juice 


1 stick cinnamon 


Crush cranberry jelly with fork. Put in sauce gra | 
: pan and gradually b i 
water with egg beaters. Add apple and pineapple juice with aoe sere 
5 minutes. Add orange juice and serve hot. Place a spot of butter in each 
cup. Makes 12 punch cups. 7 ma 


MINT JULEPS 


2 tsp. simple syrup Sprigs of mint 
3 tbps. whiskey Powdered ice 
Have the mint fresh and dry. Let it soak in the w 
a Ga to powder wit ha wooden mallet. Fil| each 
add the simple syrup, stir. Then add the Whiskey. Sti i 
= . , . e ‘ t 
Lastly, put a sprig of mint in the glass. Each Bie rails RES) 
ely. 


BEVERAGES 2] 


OLD APPLE JACK COCKTAIL 


2 qts. apple juice 1 cup apple brandy 
2 cups sherry 


Mix thoroughly, chill. Do not put ice in the mixture. Makes 20 servings. 


RUSSIAN TEA 


2 qts. tea 4 cup lemon juice 
4 stick cinnamon 4 whole cloves 
14 cup orange juice 4 cups sugar 


Pour boiling water which has had spices boiled in it, over tea bags (4 bags) 
and let stand 10 minutes. Add sugar and juices. Keep at low temperature. 
Serve hot or cold, as desired. 


SWEDISH CHRISTMAS TEA 


To 1 qt. of tea, add | qt. of grape juice and juice of one lemon. In small 
cheese cloth bag, put rind of lemon, 14 dry clove, 14 stick of cinnamon, 
14 tsp. grated nutmeg. Boil in 1 qt. of water 10 minutes. Add 14 cup of 
sugar and | cup of rum. Serves 10 or 12. 


TOMATO JUICE COCKTAIL 


1 No. 3 can tomato juice — 1 tbs. worcestershire sauce 
juice of 1 lemon | ) 4 tsp. onion salt 
1f tsp. garlic salt | ‘i 


Stir well. Top glasses with sprig of parsley. 


WASHINGTON CLUB CHAMPAGNE 


3 large bottles ginger ale dD qt. rum 
3 qts. White grape wine 1 cup sugar 
Will serve about 20. | 


WASSAIL 


Squeeze and reserve the rinds of 2 lemons and 2 oranges. Simmer the 
rinds in 2 gallons of water for ten minutes with two sticks of cinnamon and 
six whole cloves. Strain, add one gal. cider, the juice of the lemons and 
oranges. Serve hot. Will serve about 25. 


***The Yule Log and hot Wassail bowl are Christmas traditions brought over 
by the Pilgrims. It is said that no Christmas would be complete in old 
Williamsburg, Virginia without this! 


BREADS 


ALMOND-RAISIN CROWN COFFEE CAKE 


1 cup milk, scalded 14 tsp. nutmeg 

34, cup granulated sugar 2 cups light or dark raisins 

2 pkg. active dry, or 2 cakes yeast 24 cup snipped citron 

14 cup warm (not hot) water 24 cup snipped candied cherries 
41% cups sifted all-purpose flour 3/, cup soft butter 

Blanched almonds 3 eggs, well beaten 

1 tsp. salt Grated rind of 1 lemon 


In large bowl, combine milk, 14, cup sugar; cool until lukewarm. Then in 
cup, sprinkle or crumble yeast onto warm water (use lukewarm water for 
cake yeast); stir until yeast is dissolved. With egg beater, beat yeast mixture 
and | cup flour into milk mixture until smooth. Cover; let rise in warm 
place (about 85° F) till light—about 20 min. Meanwhile, grease well a 10” 
tube pan; arrange ring of almonds on bottom. Sift 3 cups flour with salt and 
nutmeg. Toss raisins with citron, cherries 14 cup flour. Set all aside. Cream 
butter until light and fluffy. When yeast mixture is light, with wooden spoon 
beat in butter, 4 cup sugar, eggs, and lemon rind. Then stir in flour mix- 
ture with spoon, beat hard for 10 min. Stir in raisins mixture until well mix- 
ed. Turn into tube pan. Cover; let rise in warm place until mixture is 14” 
from top of pan. Meanwhile, start heating oven to 375° F. Then bake 
crown 55 min. Remove carefully from pan. When cool, brush on honey 
glaze. 


BANANA BREAD (1 loaf) 


14 cup butter 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup sugar 14 tsp. soda 

2 eggs well beaten 2 tbs. sour milk 

2 cups flour 14% cups banana pulp 

1 tsp. salt 14 cup nut meats, chopped 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs. Add sifted dry i j 

1 ; y ingredients alternately 
with combined milk and bananas. Add nut meats. Bake ; : 
pan, 350°F. oven 45 to 55 minutes. S aQueueted loaf 


22 





BREADS 23 


BANANA LOAF 


1 stick margarine l, tsp. salt 

1 cup sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 
2 eggs 14 tsp. soda 

2 tbsp. water 1 tsp. vanilla 

114 cups bananas (real ripe) 1 cup nuts 


2 cups flour 
Mix in order given. Bake in pyrex loaf pan at 312° F. for 1 hour. 


BANANA MUFFINS 


134. cups sifted cake flour 1 egg, well beaten 

2 tsp. baking powder 14 cup melted shortening, or salad 
4 tsp. soda oil 

34, tsp. salt 1 cup mashed ripe bananas (2 to 3 
', cup sugar bananas) 


Sift together flour, baking powder, soda, salt and sugar into shortening 
and bananas. Add to dry ingredients, mixing only enough to dampen all 
flour. Turn into well greased muffin pans and bake in a 400 degree oven 
about 20 min., or until muffins are done. Serve hot or cold. Makes 16 
small muffins. 


BLUEBERRY BRAN MUFFINS 


34, cup whole milk 4 tsp. salt 

3/, cup 100% bran cereal 1 egg, well beaten 

1 cup flour 4 tbsp. shortening, melted 

14 cup sugar 34, cup canned blueberries (well 
4 tsp. baking powder drained) 


Mix milk and bran and let them meditate for 10 minutes. Sift dry in- 
gredients into bowl and blend. Add milk mix to flour mix and beat a minute. 
Add egg and melted shortening. Beat again. Add berries and mix well. 
Fill greased muffin tins two-thirds full. Bake at 400° F. about 25 minutes, 
or until done. This makes a chewy muffin. 


BOSTON BROWN BREAD 


2 tsp. soda 3 cups whole-wheat flour 
21% cups buttermilk or sour milk 1 cup bran 

1 cup molasses 1 cup chopped nut meats 
l, cup brown sugar 1 cup seedless raisins 

1 tsp. salt 


Dissolve soda in combined buttermilk and molasses. Add brown sugar, 
salt, flour, and bran, beating vigorously 1 min. Stir in nut meats and raisins. 
Fill greased baking-powder cans 34 full. Don’t cover. Place in kettles and 
steam over low heat 2 hours. Serve warm or cold. 


24 BREADS 


CRANBERRY NUT BREAD 


A loaf of homemade cranberry nut bread wrapped in clear plastic with a 
sprig of holly in a red bow makes a pretty gift. With the exception of the 
time involved, it is an inexpensive gift and one which money can’t buy at the 
bakery. 


Loaves of bread may be made up ahead of time and stored in the freezer. 
This recipe turns out a good loaf. 


2 cups sifted all-purpose flour 14 cup shortening 
1 cup sugar 34, cup orange juice 
114 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon grated orange rind 
l, teaspoon soda 1 egg, well beaten 
1 teaspoon salt 14 cup chopped nuts 
1 cup coarsely chopped fresh 
cranberries 


Sift together flour, sugar, baking powder, soda and salt. Cut in shorten- 
ing until the mixture resembles coarse cornmeal. Combine orange juice and 
grated rind with well beaten egg. Pour all at once into dry ingredients, mix- 
ing just enough to dampen. Carefully fold in chopped nuts and cranberries. 


Spoon into greased loaf pan (9 x 5 x 3 inches). Spread corners and sides 
slightly higher than center. Bake in a 350 degree oven about 1 hour or until 
crust is golden brown and toothpick inserted comes out clean. Cool. Store 
overnight for easy slicing. 


BOTERLOEK (Dutch Shortbread) 


Cream together 1 cup powdered sugar and 14 pound butter until light 
Stir in two teaspoons grated lemon rind, 1 teaspoon lemon juice and We) tea- 
spoon vanilla. Sift and measure 2 cups cake flour. Beat into the suaar- 
butter mixture and add 14 teaspoon salt. Bake in a square pan (9x 12) a G 


moderate oven, 350° F. until golden brown on top. Cut i 
. Cut into 
hot. Cool and serve. E squares while 


CHEESE BREAD (1 loaf) 


1 cup milk (scalded) 2 tbsp. s 
*4, cup natural American cheese T tio. are 
(grated) 


1 cake compressed yeast 
3 cups flour 


Add cheese, butter, sugar and salt to hot milk. Sti j 
’ ! : tir until h i 
Cool to lukewarm and add crumbled yeast. Let stand 3 Feit Dac eras 


make soft dough. Knead. Let stand ij : : 
Bake in 350° F. oven 50 to 60 Pniates dines Gexcee ie cou Diente bali 


1 tbsp. butter (melted) 


BREADS 25 


CORN MEAL MUFFINS 


1 cup sifted corn meal 1 egg 
1 tsp. salt l, tsp. soda 
114 cups buttermilk 3 tbs. melted shortening 


Beat egg, add milk, and then corn meal, baking powder, soda and salt and 
stir until smooth. Then add shortening. Pour into hot greased muffin pans. 
Bake 20 to 25 minutes in 450° F. oven, until brown. 


CRULLERS 


Cream 14, cup butter and add 1 cup sifted sugar gradually. Add 2 well- 
beaten eggs. Mix and sift 1 cup flour with 314 tsp. baking powder, 1/, tsp. 
grated nutmeg and a few grains salt. Add alternately with 1 cup milk to 
the first mixture. Add additional sifted flour to make a dough that can be 
handled. Turn out on lightly floured board, roll about 14 inch thick and cut 
in strips. Twist and fry in hot, deep fat. Drain on unglazed paper and when 
cold put in a paper bag fith a little powdered sugar and shake well. 


DATE BRAN MUFFINS 


11% cups all bran 3 tablespoons shortening, melted 
34, cup milk 1 cup flour 

4 cup molasses 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1, cup sugar 14 teaspoon allspice (ground) 

1 egg 1/16 teaspoon cloves (ground) 
1, teaspoon salt 34, cup dates, cut in small bits 


Put bran and milk in bowl, let stand 15 minutes. Add molasses, salt, sugar, 
beaten egg, and melted shortening. Add flour with baking powder and spices 
sifted in it. Add dates and mix. Fill greased muffin rings and bake at 375 
degrees for 25 minutes, or until done. 


DATE-NUT BREAD 


14 cups sugar 2 eggs 

23/, cups flour 1 tsp. vanilla 

2 tsp. soda (level) 14 cups boiling water 

14 tsp. salt 1 cup nuts chopped fine 

Y, stick butter or margarine (melt- 1 pkg. dates, cut fine 
ed) 


Cut up the dates and pour boiling water over them; add butter, eggs and 
then the remaining ingredients. Bake in 350° oven. This will make two 
average size loaf pans. 1 oe 


26 BREADS 


DIXIE MUFFINS 


2 cups corn meal 1 egg 

3 tsp baking powder 1% cups milk 

1 tsp. salt 3 tbs. lard or melted fat 
1 tbs. sugar 


Set oven control to 450 degrees to preheat. Sift meal, baking powder, 
salt. Mix together beaten egg, milk and fat. Add all at once to the dry in- 
gredients. Stir just to moisten and blend all ingredients. Pour the batter 
into hot greased muffin pans, filling about two-thirds full. Pop quickly into 
preheated oven. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes. For corn sticks, bake in corn 
stick molds; for corn bread, bake in shallow square pan. 


DIXIE SPOON BREAD 


3/4, cup meal 2 tsp. baking pwoder 

1 cup sweet milk 1 cup boiling water 

2 eggs 1 tbs. shortening 

1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. sugar (if desired) 


Into mixing bowl put the shortening, salt and meal. Over this pour the 
boiling water. Mix until smooth. Add the milk and the lightly beaten eggs. 
Add baking powder. Pour into greased baking dish and bake 30 to 40 min- 
utes in a moderate oven. 


*In baking spoon bread, it is best to have the oven hot—425°. Then 
when you put the bread in the oven, reduce the heat to 350° F. Bake 30 to 
40 minutes. 


FRESH ORANGE TWISTS—COFFEE CAKE 


1 pkg. active dry, or 1 cake yeast 1 tbsp. grated orange rind 

4 cup warm (not hot) water 3/4, cup orange juice 

1 tsp. sugar 314 cups sifted all-purpose flour 
14 cup shortening 14 tbsp. butter or margarine, 

1 egg, unbeaten melted 

2 tbsp. sugar 4 cup orange marmalade 

114 tsp. salt 4 cup chopped blanched almonds 


In large bowl, sprinkle or crumble yeast onto warm water (use lukewarm 
water for cake yeast); add 1 tsp. sugar; stir until yeast is dissolved. Add 
shortening, egg, 2 tbsp. sugar, salt, orange rind and juice; with wooden spoon, 
beat well. Add flour gradually, beating very thoroughly after each addition. 
Onto lightly floured surface, turn dough and knead about 5 min., or until 
smooth. Place dough in greased bowl, turning to grease entire surface of 
dough; then cover, and let rise in warm place about 85° F. until doubled in 
bulk. Divide dough in half. Roll one half into a rectangle about 15 in. x 9 
in.; brush surface with melted butter; then fold narrow end over center, 


BREADS PI 


making 3 layers. Now cut dough crosswise into 12 strips, each about 3%, in. 
wide; cover and let rest about 10 min.; then take up each strip, and twist 
from ends in opposite directions. On greased baking sheet, shape each 
twisted strip into a coil, tucking end under. Now roll other half of dough 
into a rectangle about 15 in. x 9 in. Starting at narrow end, spread marma- 
lade on two-thirds of rolled out dough, leaving 5 in. x 9 in. section uncovered; 
fold this uncovered section over center third of dough; then fold remaining 
section over other two. Now cut and twist dough as before. Onto greased 
baking sheet, place twisted strips. Let all rise in warm place until light, 
about 44 hour. Meanwhile, start heating oven to 375° F. Bake twists 15 
to 20 min.; cool. Frost with orange icing; then sprinkle with chopped al- 
monds. Makes 2 dozen. 

Orange Icing: In small bowl over hot water, heat 1 tbsp. butter or marga- 
rine, | tsp. grated orange rind, | tbsp. Orange juice and | tbsp. lemon juice 
until butter is melted. Remove from hot water; stir in 114, cups sifted con- 
fectioner’s sugar. 


GEORGIA SALLY LUNN 


14 cup butter or other shortening 1 cup milk 

l, cup sugar 2 cups flour 

3 eggs beaten well, but not sepa- 4 tsp. baking powder 
rately 34, tsp. salt 


Cream butter and sugar well, add eggs and milk a little at a time. Alter- 
nately add the flour which has been sifted with baking powder and salt. Bake 
in greased shallow pan, so that Sally Lunn is about 11% in. thick. Cut in 
squares and butter. Bake 400° F. oven 20 to 25 minutes. 


HOECAKE 
1 cup corn meal 3f, tsp. salt 
1 cup boiling water 


Moisten the salted corn meal with the water and let it sit a minute or two. 
Drop the batter by teaspoons on a hot greased griddle, and flatten into cakes. 
Brown on each side, and serve Hot, Hot, Hot!!! | 


HUSH PUPPIES | 


1 cup corn meal 1 small onion, minced 
2 tsp. baking powder 1 egg 
, tsp. salt 14 cup milk, or water 


Mix the dry ingredients and add onion (remember to mince it very fine). 
Break in the egg and beat like mad! Add liquid and form into small patties, 
or you can scoop up the batter on the edge of a large spoon to make finger- 
shaped puppies. Drop in deep hot fat in which fish has been fried. Serve 
golden brown, and again—hot as fire!!! 


28 BREADS 


HUSH PUPPIES II 


2 cups corn meal 4, tsp. soda 
14 tsp. salt 14 cup sugar 
2 tsps. baking powder 1 egg 


14 cups buttermilk 


Mix all ingredients thoroughly and drop in hot fat with a small spoon. 


NEVER FAIL MUFFINS 


14 cups flour 1 tbsp. sugar 
14 tsp. salt 34, cup milk 
4 tsps. baking powder 2 eggs, beaten 


4 cup shortening, melted 


Sift flour with salt, baking powder and sugar. Combine remaining ingre- 
dients and add at once. Stir just until mixed but not smooth. The balls 
should be lumpy. Fill greased muffin rings half-full. Bake at 425° F. for 
25 minutes. Makes 1 doz. muffins. 


ORANGE BREAD 


214 cups cake flour 1 to 2 eggs, beaten 

l, to 1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 

16 tsp. salt 1 tbsp. melted shortening 

4), tsps. baking powder 4, cup black walnut meats or other 
1 cup candied orange peel nutmeats 


Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add orange peel and nutmeats. Combine 
eggs, milk and shortening. Turn into dry ingredients. Mix but do not beat. 
Fill greased pan 24 full. Bake in moderate oven 350° F. 45 to 60 minutes. 


ORANGE NUT BREAD 


21, cups sifted flour 1 cup chopped nuts 
34, cup sugar 2 eggs, beaten 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 cup milk 

1 tsp. salt 3 tbsp. melted butter 


1 cup finely diced orange peel 


Sift together flour, sugar, baking powder and salt. It takes about two 
oranges to make one cup diced peel. Cut oranges in half, squeeze and use 
juice for some other purpose. Pull membrane from orange cups and dice 
peel finely to make one cup. Add peel and nuts to flour mixture. Combine 
eggs, milk and butter and add to dry ingredients. Mix only until flour is 
moistened. (Do not beat). Turn into a greased 9 x 5 in. loaf pan and bake 
in a 350° F. oven for 50 minutes, or until done. Turn out and cool. 


BREADS 29 


ORANGE-PECAN BUNS 


4 cup granulated sugar 3 tsps. double-acting baking powder 
3 tbsps. flour 1 tsp. salt 

l, tsp. cinnamon 4 cup shortening 

14 tsp. nutmeg 14 cup chopped pecans 

2 tbsps. butter or margarine 1 egg, slightly beaten 

2 cups sifted all-purpose flour VY, cup orange juice 

4 cup granulated sugar 14 cup orange marmalade 


Start heating oven to 375° F. For topping, combine 14 cup sugar, 3 tbsps. 
flour, cinnamon, and nutmeg; with pastry blender or two knives, using scis- 
sor-fashion, cut in butter, until mixture is crumbly; set aside. Cut in short- 
ening until mixture looks like coarse meal; stir in pecans. Mix egg, orange 
juice, marmalade; add to flour mixture, stirring with spoon just until mix- 
ture is moistened. Spoon dough into twelve 21% in. paper-lined or greased 
muffin pan cups; sprinkle with reserved topping. Bake 20 to 25 minutes. 
Makes 1 dozen. 


SALLY LUNN 
2 cups scalded milk 2 tsps. salt 
1 yeast cake 6 cups flour 
24 cup shortening 14 cup sugar 


3 eggs 


Scald milk, add shortening, salt and sugar. Beat until smooth. Let rise 
until double in bulk. Stir down and put into muffin tins. Let rise again and 
bake in 350° oven 30 or 40 minutes. 


SPOON-CORNBREAD 


114 tbsps. butter 2 eggs, well beaten 
1 cup boiling water 2 tbsps. baking powder 
2 cups sifted corn meal 1 tsp. salt 


2 cups milk 


Mix butter and salt with meal and pour boiling water over it, stirring 
quickly. Add milk at once to avoid lumping. Add beaten eggs and baking 
powder. Pour into buttered baking pan or muffin pans. 


BISCUITS SUPREME 


2 cups flour 2 tsp. sugar 
1% tsp. salt Y, cup shortening 
4 tsp. baking powder 24 cup milk 


14 tsp. cream of tartar 
Use same method as for Perfect Biscuits. 


30 BREADS 


PERFECT BISCUITS 


2 cups flour 3 to 4 tbsps. shortening 
14 tsp. salt 2, cup milk 
3 tsp. baking powder 


Measure sifted flour, then sift again with other dry ingredients into mixing 
bowl. Measure shortening into bowl; with two knives or pastry blender, cut 
into dry ingredients quickly until mixture looks like crumbs. Pour the milk 
in at once, stir gently with fork until flour is dampened. Turn dough on 
lightly floured board. Roll 14” thick; cut out and bake in pre-heated oven 
450° F. 12 to 15 minutes. 


SUPERB WAFFLES 


2 cups sifted all-purpose flour 2 tbsps. sugar 

1 tsp. baking powder 2 eggs, separated 

14 tsp. baking soda 1144 cups sour milk, or buttermilk 
4 tsp. salt 6 tbsps. melted shortening 


Beat egg yolks until thick as mayonnaise. (Very important if you want a 
really light, delicate waffle). Then stir the sour milk or buttermilk into the 
well beaten egg yolk. Pour egg-milk mixture into the sifted dry ingredients 
and beat until the batter is smooth. Cool the melted shortening, slightly, 
then stir it into the batter until well mixed. Beat egg whites until they are 
stiff enough to stand up in points. Then mix or fold the egg whites into the 
batter, mixing gently until all the patches of egg white disappear. Pour 
enough batter on the waffle iron to make a full waffle, when baked. (Here 
experience and manufacturer's directions must be your guide). Number of 
waffles depends on size of iron. 


WAFELES | 
1 cup whipping cream 4 tablespoons melted butter 
7, cup sifted flour lf, teaspoon salt 


2 eggs, separated 


Whip the cream, beat the egg yolks. To the whipped cream add the beat- 
en egg yolks, flour and melted butter. Sprinkle salt over egg whites and beat 
until stiff. Fold into first mixture and bake in preheated waffle iron. 


WAFELES Il 


Combine together 2. eggs, beaten; 124 cups milk; 14, cup melted shorten- 
ing and add 2 cups pancake mix all at once. Then beat with rotary beater 
until smooth. Bake on hot waffle iron until steaming ceases. Use 14 cup 
batter for 7 inch round, and 1 cup.batter for 9 inch square waffle iron. 


BREADS on 





ICE BOX ROLLS 


1 cup shortening 2 eggs, beaten 
1, cup sugar 2 cakes yeast 

1 tsp. salt 1 cup cold water 
1 cup boiling water 6 cups flour 


Blend shortening, sugar, salt; add boiling water, stir well. Cool. Add 1 
cup of flour, then the yeast which has stood in the cold water 5 minutes. Add 
the remaining flour; mix well. Place in a large bowl, cover, put in refrigera- 
tor for at least 4 hours. Make out about 3 hours before baking. Bake from 
12 to 15 minutes in oven 425° F. This will make enough rolls for family of 
four for 4 days. Half the recipe may be made if desired. 


REFRIGERATOR ROLLS 


1 cake yeast 1 tsp. salt 
Y, cup sugar 2 eggs, well beaten 
14 cup shortening 4 cups plain flour 


1 cup lukewarm sweet milk 


Crumble the yeast in a large bowl; add 1 tbsp. of the sugar; mix well. Let 
stand 5 minutes, then add the rest of the sugar, the shortening, salt, milk, 
and eggs and 2 cups of the flour. Beat for 3 minutes and add other 2 cups 
flour. Cover with a cloth and let rise until double in bulk. Cover tightly and 
store in refrigerator. When ready to make rolls, roll out dough on floured 
board, work well, cut out rolls and place on greased baking sheet. Cover 
and let rise about 2144 hours. Bake about 15 minutes in oven 400° F. 


WHOLE WHEAT ROLLS 


2 cups milk 1 cake yeast 

2 tbsps. molasses or dark brown 5 cups whole wheat flour (Graham) 
sugar 1 cup sifted white flour 

114 tsp. salt | 4 tbsp. melted shortening 


Scald milk; add molasses or sugar, salt; cool until lukewarm. Crumble 
yeast in and stir until dissolved. Add remaining flour or enough to make an 
easily handled dough. Knead thoroughly, keeping dough soft. Place dough 
in greased bowl; cover and set in warm place, free from draft. Let rise until 
double in bulk, about 1144 hours. When light, shape into rolls and place in 
well greased pans. Cover and let rise again until light, about 1 hour. Bake 
in hot oven at 425° F. about 20 minutes. 


For refrigerator rolls. When doubled in bulk, punch down in bowl, brush 
lightly with melted shortening. Cover well; place in refrigerator until needed. 
Then shape into rolls, let rise and bake as directed above. This dough will 
keep several days in the refrigerator. 


32 BREADS 





PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 


1 cup milk 1 cup lukewarm water 
5 tbsp. sugar 6 cups sifted all-purpose flour 
1 tbsp. salt 6 tbsp. shortening 


1 cake yeast 


Scald the milk; add sugar and salt; cool to lukewarm. Dissolve yeast in 
lukewarm water and add to lukewarm milk. Add 3 cups flour and beat until 
perfectly smooth. Add melted shortening and remaining flour or enough to 
make easily handled dough. Knead well; place in well greased bowl. Cover 
well, set in warm place, free from draft, until doubled in bulk, about 114 
hours . Roll out 34” thick, cut out with 214” biscuit cutter. Crease heavily 
in center with back of knife, and brush very lightly with melted butter. Fold 
over in pocket book shape. Place in well greased pan about 14” apart. Cover 
and let rise until light, about 1 hour. Bake in oven 425° F. about 20 min. 
Makes 4 dozen. 


NO-KNEADING BREAD ROLLS 


1 cake yeast 2 tbsp. sugar 

4 cup lukewarm water 1 cup boiling water 
4 cup shortening 1 egg 

14 tsp. salt 314 cups flour 


Dissolve yeast in lukewarm water. Place shortening, salt and sugar in a 
separate bowl. Add boiling water, stir until ingredients are dissolved. When 
lukewarm add yeast. Add beaten egg. Stir in flour to make a soft dough. 
(Begin with 3 cups of flour and add as much more as necessary for a soft 
dough.) Grease a large bowl, place dough in it and cover. Chill dough 2 to 
24 hours. Pinch off dough, place in greased muffin tins 14 full. Brush tops 
with melted butter. Rolls will rise in 2 hours in warm place. Bake in hot 
oven at 425°F., 20 minutes. Remove at once from pan. Makes 2 dozen. 


GLUTEN BREAD—(For Diabetics) 


1 cup milk 1 cup lukewarm water 
1 tbsp. sugar 4 cups gluten flour 
1 tsp. salt 1 tbsp. melted shortening 


1 cake yeast 


Scald milk, add sugar and salt; cool to lukewarm. Dissolve yeast in luke- 
warm water and add to lukewarm milk. Add half the flour and beat until 
smooth. Add melted shortening and remaining flour, or enough to make 
easily handled dough. Knead dough quickly and lightly until smooth and 
elastic. Place dough in greased bowl, cover and set.in warm place, free from 
draft. Let rise until doubled in bulk, about 134, hours. When light, divide 


BREADS 33 


into 2 equal portions and shape into loaves. Place in greased bread pans. 
Cover and let rise until doubled in bulk, about 1 hour. Bake in 400°F. oven 
for 45 minutes. Makes 2 loaves. 


FAN TANS 
1 recipe Parker House Rolls. 


When dough is light, roll out into a rectangular sheet 1 inch thick. Brush 
with melted butter or margarine and cut into strips 114 inches wide. Pile 7 
strips together and cut into pieces | inch wide. Place inch side up in greased 
muffin pans. Cover and let rise in warm place, until light, about 1 hour. 
Bake in oven 400°F. for 20 minutes. Makes 2 dozen. 


SWEDISH LIMPE 


2 cups water 14 yeast cake 

14 cup brown sugar About 3 cups white flour 
2 tsp. caraway seeds 1 tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. shortening About 2 cups rye flour 


1 tsp chopped orange peel 
or 1 scant tsp. anise seed 


Boil together water, sugar, caraway seeds, shortening and orange peel (or 
anise seed) for 3 min. Let mixture become lukewarm. Add yeast. Stir 
thoroughly, gradually adding sufficient white flour to make a soft dough. 
Place dough in a warm place and let rise about 1144 hours. Then add salt 
and enough rye flour to make a stiff dough. Let rise again for 2 hours. 
Knead slightly and shape into loaf. Put into greased loaf pan and let rise 
again for half an hour. Bake in oven at 350°F. for 1 hour. Makes 1 loaf. 


ORANGE FILLED ROLLS 


1 recipe Parker House Rolls. When dough is light, roll out on floured 
board into rectangular sheet 14, inch thick. Spread with cooked orange fill- 
ing and roll up as for jelly roll. Cut into 1 inch pieces; place in greased muf- 
fin pans. Cover and set in warm place, free from draft, until light, abaut 34, 
hour. Bake in oven at 375°F. about 25 minutes. Makes 2 dozen. 


Orange Filling: 


3 tbsp. cornstarch 2 tbsp. lemon juice 
34, cup sugar | 2 tbsp. grated orange rind 
14, cup cold water 2 tsp. grated lemon rind 


14 cup orange juice 


Mix cornstarch and sugar together. Add water to make smooth paste; add 
fruit juices and rind. Bring to boil, stirring constantly, and cook until thick. 
Cool. 


34 BREADS 





FOUNDATION SWEET DOUGH 


2 cakes yeast 14 cup sugar 

1 tbsp. sugar 1 tsp. salt 

1 cup lukewarm water 7 cups sifted flour 
1 cup milk 3 eggs, beaten 


6 tbsp. shortening 


Dissolve yeast and 1 tbsp. sugar in lukewarm water. Scald milk, add 
shortening, sugar and salt; cool to lukewarm. Add 2 cups flour to make a 
batter. Add yeast and beaten eggs; beat well. Add remaining flour or 
enough to make a soft dough. Knead lightly and place in greased bowl. 
Cover and set in warm place; let rise until doubled in bulk, about 2 hours. 
When light, punch dough down and shape according to directions for Swedish 
Tea Ring, Filled Coffee Ring or Cinnamon Buns. 


FILLED COFFEE RING 


1 recipe Foundation Sweet Dough 34, cup canned crushed pineapple, 
1 cup candied citron well drained 
14 cup candied lemon peel 1 Ib. seedless raisins 


14, cup candied orange peel 


Chop fine or put through food chopper the citron, lemon peel and orange 
peel. Mix with pineapple and raisins to make fruit filling. When sweet 
dough is light punch down and divide into three equal portions. Round up 
each portion into a smooth ball. Roll out in oblong pieces 14,” thick. Brush 
with melted butter and cover with fruit filling. Roll up as for jelly roll and 
place on large greased pan. Make 4 cuts on top of each ring with a sharp 
knife. Cover and let rise in a warm place about 1 hour. Brush with one egg 
yolks beaten with 2 tbsp. cold milk. Bake in moderate oven 350° F. about 30 
minutes. May be iced while still warm with plain icing. 


Plain Icing: 
Add 4 tbsp. cold milk or warm water with 1 cup confectioner’s sugar; add 
14 tsp. vanilla. Make a smooth paste. 


DANISH PASTRY 


4 cakes yeast 14 cup sugar 

1 tbsp. sugar 3 eggs 

1 cup lukewarm water 14 tsp. salt 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled 14 tsp. each, vanilla, lemon extract 
7 cup sifted flour 114 cups butter 


6 tbsp. shortening 


Dissolve yeast and 1 tbsp. sugar in lukewarm water. Add milk and 3 cups 
of flour and beat until smooth. Cream shortening and sugar together thor- 


BREADS 35 





oughly. Beat eggs until light, reserving 1 white; add salt and flavoring; add 
to creamed mixture and mix well. Add this mixture to first yeast mixture 
and mix well. Add remaining 4 cups of flour gradually to make a moderate- 
ly stiff dough. Knead lightly on floured board. Place in greased bowl, 
cover and let rise 14 in bulk. Roll out on floured board into oblong pieces, 
14” thick, using 14 the amount of butter or margarine. Place in small pieces 
over center third of dough; fold one side over to cover butter or margarine; 
place remaining pieces of butter or margarine on top, then fold other third of 
dough to completely cover this layer of butter or margarine. Press edges 
down well. Turn dough 14, way around and roll out again to 14 inch thick. 
Fold 14, of the dough at each end into center then fold again together. Chill 
in refrigerator about 14 hour. Roll out to 14 inch thick, fold in fourths and 
chill 14 hour. Roll out again; the dough is now ready to shape. 


Shape as desired into crescents, pinwheels, braided rings, figure eights, 
etc. Place on greased pans and let rise in warm place, until light, about 3%, 
hour. Brush with one egg white mixed with | tbsp. cold water. Bake in hot 
oven at 500°F. about 5 minutes; reduce heat to 400°F. and bake until done, 
about 10 to 25 min. Makes 4 to 6 dozen. 


CINNAMON BUNS 


1 recipe Foundation Sweet Dough 1 tbsp. powdered cinnamon 
6 tbsp. melted butter or shortening 1 cup seeded raisins 
114 cups brown sugar 


When sweet dough is light, punch down and divide into two equal parts. 
Roll out in oblong pieces, 14, inch thick. Brush with melted butter or mar- 
garine and sprinkle with brown sugar, cinnamon and raisins. Roll up as for 
jelly roll and cut in 1 inch slices. Place cut side up about | in. apart in 
large greased pan. Cover and let rise in warm place, free from draft, until 
light, about 1 hour. Bake in hot oven, 425°F. about 20 minutes. Ice top 
while still hot with plain icing. Makes 4 dozen. 


BUCKWHEAT CAKES 


1 cake yeast’ . 1 cup milk 

3 tbsp. molasses 114 tsp. salt 

21%, cups lukewarm water 2 cups buckwheat flour 
1 cup sifted white flour : 


Dissolve yeast and molasses in lukewarm water. Scald milk, add salt and 
cool to lukewarm. Add to yeast; add buckwheat flour and white flour grad- 
ually, beating until smooth. Cover and let rise in warm place, until light, 
about 1 hour. Stir well and bake as for Griddle Cakes. Makes 45. 


For Overnight Method: Use 14, cake yeast and an additional 1 tsp. salt. 
Cover and let stand overnight in a cool place. 


36 BREADS 


CHEESE PUFFS 


14 cup shortening 1 tbsp. sugar 

2 eggs 14 cup lukewarm water 

144 cups sharp American cheese, 14 tsp. dry mustard 
grated 14% cups sifted flour 


2 cakes yeast 


Cream shortening; add unbeaten eggs one at a time, beating well after 
each egg is added. Add grated cheese and beat until thoroughly blended. 
Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm water and add to cheese mixture. 
Gradually add mustard and flour which have been sifted together. Beat 
well. Drop on greased baking sheets, about | tsp. to each cheese puff. 
Allow about 2 inches space between puff. Let rise until light and spongy, 
about 1 hour. Brush with one slightly beaten egg white and sprinkle with 
salt. Bake in moderate oven at 375°F. about 20 to 25 minutes. Makes 25. 


WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 


1 cup milk 1 cup lukewarm water 

2 tbsp. light brown sugar 2 tbsp. melted shortening 
1 tsp. salt 2 eggs, well beaten 

1 cake yeast 21% cups sifted flour 


Scald milk, add sugar and salt; cool to lukewarm. Dissolve yeast in luke- 
warm water and add to lukewarm milk. Add melted shortening, well-beaten 
eggs and flour. Beat thoroughly to make smooth batter. Cover and let rise 
in warm place, until light, about 1 hour. Stir well and bake on hot greased 
griddle. Makes 27. 7 

For Overnight Method: Use 14, yeast cake and an additional 1% tsp. salt. 
Cover and let stand overnight in a cool place. 


DOUGHNUTS 
1 cake yeast 1, cup sugar 
1 tbsp. sugar 4 tsp. salt 
14 cups milk, scalded and cooled 1 egg, well beaten 
41% cups sifted flour 1 tsp. nutmeg 


3 tbsp. butter or margarine 


Dissolve yeast and 1 tbsp. sugar in lukewarm milk. Add 114 cups flour 
and beat well. Cover and let rise in warm place, about 1 hour, until bubbles 
burst on top. Cream butter or margarine and sugar. Add salt, egg and 
nutmeg. Add to yeast mixture. Add remaining flour to make moderately 
soft dough. Knead lightly, then place in well greased bowl. Cover and let 
rise 114 hours. When light, turn out on floured board and roll 14” thick. 
Cut with doughnut cutter (3 inch). Place on floured board, cover with cloth 
and let rise about 1 hour. Fry in deep fat hot enough to brown 1 inch cube 
of bread in 60 seconds, or 375°F. Fry on both sides, turning only once. 
Drain, cool and roll in powdered sugar. Makes 3 dozen. 


CAKES 


ALMOND CREAM CAKE 


1 cup butter 4 tsp. salt 

2 cups granulated sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 
3 cups cake flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon almond extract 
5 egg whites 


Cream the butter and sugar; add the flour, milk, baking powder and salt 
sifted in it alternately with the milk. Finally fold in the stiffly beaten egg 
whites. Bake in three layers in moderate oven 350°F. for 20 min. 


Filling for Almond Cream Cake 


2 cups sweet milk 4 cup sugar 
1 tbsp. corn starch 4 egg yolks, well beaten 


Make a smooth paste of the corn starch with 4 tbsps. of the milk, add the 
sugar, egg yolks and remainder of the milk; cook in double boiler until thick, 
stirring constantly. Remove from heat, add the vanilla and almond extract 
and | cup chopped almonds. Fill cake with this and cover with one cup of 
double rich cream whipped stiff and 2 tbsps. sugar and 14 cup rum or cherry 
wine. 


ALAMO LEMON JELLY CAKE 


3 cups sifted all-purpose flour 2 cups sugar 
3 teaspoons baking powder 6 eggs 
14 teaspoon salt 4, teaspoon lemon extract 
3/, cup butter, margarine, or short- 1164 cups milk 
ening 


Start oven at 375°F. Grease and flour three 8” pans. Sift flour, baking 
powder, and salt together several times. Work fat in a bowl until soft, then 
add the sugar gradually and continue working until it feels smooth and 
creamy. Separate egg yolks from whites, beating the yolks one at a time 
into the creamed mixture. Beat hard after each addition. Stir lemon ex- 
tract into the milk and mix the liquid alternately with dry ingredients into 
the creamed sugar mixture. Beat egg whites until they hold a point and mix 


Si, 


38 CAKES 


gently into the batter. Pour into cake pans and bake 35 minutes. When 
layers are cool spread lemon filling between layers and over the top. 


Filling: 
2 eggs Grated rind of 1 lemon 
1 cup sugar Juice of 2 lemons (14 cup) 


1 tbsp. butter or margarine 


Beat eggs slightly in a saucepan. Stir in sugar, butter, lemon rind and 
juice and cook over low heat, stirring constantly until thick enough to coat 
a spoon, (about 15 minutes). Cool. 


ANGEL CAKE 
114 cups egg whites 114 teaspoons cream of tartar 
1 cup -+ 2 tbsps. sifted cake flour 1 cup sifted granulated sugar 
14 cup sifted granulated sugar 4, tsp. almond flavoring 
14 teaspoon salt 1 tsp. vanilla flavoring 


Separate eggs, put whites in bowl to reach room temperature. Then while 
oven heats to 375°, sift 1 cup plus 2 tbsps. cake flour with 14 cup granulated 
sugar three times. Beat whites and 14 tsp. salt until foamy, sprinkle in 1144 
tsps. cream of tartar, beat whites stiff enough to hold definite peaks, then 
beat at high speed adding | cup sifted sugar (1 tbsp. at a time) until sugar 
is just blended. At low speed add the almond and vanilla flavoring, then 
stop beater. Sift in flour mixture 14, at a time, folding each in lightly with 
spatula turning bowl slowly after each stroke. Then gently turn batter into 
ungreased 10” tube pan. Bake at 375°F. 30-35 min. 


APPLE SAUCE CAKE 


2 eggs 1 tsp. each of ground cloves, cin- 
2 cups flour namon, nutmeg 

34, cup butter or margarine 1 tsp. grated orange rind 

1 cup sugar juice of 14 orange 

1 glass of jelly 1 cup nut meats, chopped up 

14 tsp. salt 1 cup raisins, cut up 

1 tsp. mace (powdered) 1 cup mincemeat 


1 cup of apple sauce 


Beat sugar with butter, add well beaten eggs, jelly, flour and spices, apple 
sauce, and orange juice. Finally add raisins, nuts and mincemeat. Put in 
well greased lined tubepan. Bake at 300° F. for one hour. **AIl ovens not 
same temperature, so if cake is not firm turn heat to 350° until done. 


CAKES B27 


APPLE SAUCE CUP CAKES 


14 cup shortening 1 glass of currant or any good jelly 
1 cup brown sugar 1 cup mincemeat 

2 eggs, well beaten 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups enriched flour 14 teaspoon cloves 

1 tsp. baking powder 14 teaspoon nutmeg 

14 tsp. salt 1 cup raisins, chopped 

4 tsp. soda 1 cup nut meats 


Cream shortening and sugar, add eggs, beat well. Add apple sauce, jelly 
with dry ingredients, mix well, fold in mincemeat, raisins and nuts. Bake in 
paper cups or greased muffin pans at 350° F. for 30 minutes. 


Frosting for Apple Sauce Cup Cakes 


114 cups sugar 4 tsp. vanilla 
2 tbsps. sherry 2 tbsps. butter 


Cream all together well and frost cakes. 


BANANA NUT LOAF 


2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 
114 cups sugar 14 teaspoon salt 

14 cup butter or margarine 14 cup buttermilk 

1 cup mashed pulp of bananas 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 cups flour 4 cup chopped walnuts 


1 teaspoon soda 


Cream together the shortening, sugar, banana pulp and well beaten egg 
yolks. Mix creamed ingredients and sifted ingredients alternately; add but- 
termilk, vanilla, and walnuts. Fold in beaten egg whites and bake at 350° 
for 30 min. 


BASIC LAYER CAKE 


2 cups sugar 214 cups cake flour 

1 cup butter 14 teaspoon salt 

4 eggs 1 cup milk 

114 teaspoons yanilla 2 teaspoons baking powder 


Soften butter, add sugar and cream until all the particles are dissolved; 
add the whole eggs; sift the flour with baking powder and salt and add alter- 
nately with milk mixture, add vanilla. Bake in layers at 350° F. about 25 
minutes. (This may be baked in a loaf at same temperature 45 min.) 


40 CAKES 


BISHOPS CAKE 
1 cup sugar 4 teaspoon salt 
116 cups sifted all-purpose flour 3 eggs 


114 teaspoons baking powder 


Beat eggs until fluffy, add other ingredients which have been sifted to- 
gether. Then add 14 Ib. semi-sweet chocolate chips, 2 cups chopped walnuts, 
1 cup coarsely cut dates, 1 cup halved candied cherries. Bake in loaf pan at 
325° F. about 45 minutes. Serve as any fruit cake. Does not need aging 
before using. 


BLACK WALNUT CAKE 
2 cups sifted cake flour 3 eggs 
214 tsps. baking powder 2, cup milk 
16 tsp. salt 1 tsp. vanilla extract 
3/4, cup margarine 14 cup finely chopped black 
1 cup granulated sugar walnuts 


Start heating oven to 350° F. Grease 10” x 5” x 3” loaf pan. Sift flour 
with baking powder and salt. In large mixing bowl cream the margarine and 
sugar until light and fluffy. Add unbeaten eggs, one at a time, beating 
thoroughly after each addition. Beat in alternately the flour mixture and milk. 
Add vanilla, nuts. Turn into loaf pan. Bake 1 hour or until done. When 
cake is cool, frost generously with caramel frosting and sprinkle black wal- 
nuts between layers. 


BROWN SUGAR SPICE CAKE WITH BAKED ICING 


% cup shortening 2 egg yolks 
2 whole eggs 1 teaspoon each ground cinnamon, 
214 cups sifted flour cloves, soda, baking powder 
1 cup sour milk 14 teaspoon salt 
2 cups brown sugar 
Topping: 
2 egg whites 14 cup broken walnut meats 


1 cup brown sugar 


Cream shortening; add sugar gradually and mix well. Add whole eggs to 
egg yolks and beat well, then beat into creamed mixture. Sift flour, spices, 
soda, baking powder, and salt together. Add to creamed mixture with sour 
milk; blend thoroughly. Pour into greased and floured pan 814 x 1214 
inches. Beat remaining egg whites until they hold a point. Add brown sugar, 
mix well, and pour over cake mixture. Sprinkle with nuts and bake at 350° 
about 45 minutes. 


CAKES 4] 


BUTTER FINGERS 


Cream 114 sticks of butter with 4 tablespoons powdered sugar. Add 1 
tablespoon cold water. 


2 cups sifted flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup broken nut meats 


Cream butter, sugar, flour, and water. Mix well with broken nut meats. 
Shape into small fingers. Bake in 400° oven 10 minutes. Roll in powdered 


sugar. 


CENTENNIAL CAKE 


2 cups sifted cake flour 4 tsp. almond extract 

34, tsp. baking powder 14, tsp. vanilla extract 

1 cup butter 3/4, cup finely cut-up citron 

1 cup granulated sugar 3/4, cup finely cut-up candied 
5 egg whites cherries 


Start heating oven to 300° F. Grease well 10” x 5” x 3” loaf pan. Sift 
flour and baking powder together 3 times. In large electric mixer bowl, 
with mixer at high speed, cream butter well. Gradually add sugar; then beat 
5 min. Continue beating, adding egg whites in 3 additions and beating 2 
min. after each addition. Then, at low speed, gradually add flour mixture, 
beating only until smooth. Fold in extracts, citron, candied cherries. Pour 
into pan. Bake 1 hr. 45 min., or until done. Cool in pan on wire rack. (This 
cake slices better second day.) 


CHOCOLATE NUT CAKE 
($100.00 Recipe) 


4, cup butter 2 cups cake flour 

2 cups sugar, granulated 2 teaspoons baking powder 
4 squares chocolate 2 teaspoons vanilla 

2 eggs 1 cup chopped nuts 


114 cups sweet milk 


Cream butter and sugar, add melted chocolate and well beaten eggs. Sift 
dry ingredients; add alternately. Add vanilla and nuts. Bake in 350° oven 


for 45 minutes. 


Icing for Chocolate Nut Cake (not cooked) 


14 cup butter 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
2 oz. chocolate 1 cup chopped nuts 
114 cups powdered sugar pinch of salt 


1 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt butter with chocolate over hot water; then add well beaten eggs, 
sugar, salt, vanilla and lemon juice. Beat until creamy. Beat in nuts and 
ice cake. Sprinkle on nuts. 


42 CAKES 





CHOCOLATE NUT LOAF 


214 cups cake flour broken 

4 tsp. salt 3 squares Baker’s unsweetened 
1 tsp. soda chocolate, melted and cooled 
1 cup butter 1 cup buttermilk or sour milk 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 


5 eggs, well beaten 
1 cup walnut meats, coarsely 


Sift flour once, measure, add salt and soda, and sift together three times. 
Cream butter thoroughly, add sugar gradually, and cream together until 
light and fluffy. Add eggs and beat well. Add nuts and chocolate and blend. 
Add flour, alternately with milk, a small amount at a time, beating after each 
addition until smooth. Add vanilla. Bake in greased loaf pan 12 x 8 x 3 in. 


in slow oven (325°) 1 hour, or until done. Cover top and sides with Mocha 
Chocolate Frosting. 


Mocha Chocolate Frosting 


2 squares Baker’s unsweetened 14 cup strong coffee 
chocolate, melted 5 cups sifted confectioner’s 
2 tablespoons butter sugar (about) 


Combine chocolate, butter and coffee. Mix well. Add sugar gradually 
until of right consistency to spread. Beat thoroughly and spread on cake. 


CO-CO POUND CAKE 


3 cups sifted all-purpose flour 14 cup shortening 
14 cup cocoa 214 cups sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon yanilla 
14 tsp. double-acting baking powder 5 unbeaten eggs 

1 cup butter 1 cup milk 


Sift together flour, cocoa, salt and baking powder. Cream butter and 
shortening in mixing bowl. Gradually add sugar, creaming well. Blend in 
vanilla and eggs, one at a time, beating well after each. Add dry ingredients 
alternately with milk, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Blend 
thoroughly after each addition. Turn into 10-inch tube pan which has been 
well greased on bottom only. Bake in slow oven 325° 114 to 114 hours. 
Cover with Chocolate Glaze, if desired. 


Chocolate Glaze 
1 square unsweetened chocolate 2 to 3 tablespoons milk 


1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon yanilla 
3/4, cup sifted confectioner’s sugar 


Melt unsweetened chocolate and butter in top of double boiler over boiling 


water. Remove from heat. Blend in confectioner’s sugar, milk and vanilla 
to form glaze. 


CAKES 43 


COCONUT CAKE 


3 cups finely grated coconut 3 cups flour 
6 eggs 2 tsps. baking powder 
1 cup top milk 1 cup butter 
2 cups sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 


Cream butter with sugar, add well beaten egg yolks. Stir in flour with 
baking powder sifted in it. Add milk gradually; fold in whites of 3 eggs 
stiffly beaten. Bake in 3 layers in oven 350° F. about 25 minutes. 


Icing: 


Use 7 minute white icing. In half of icing stir in half the coconut. Use 
other half of coconut to cover cake. Sprinkle remaining coconut on top and 
sides of cake. 


CRAZY CHOCOLATE CAKE 


Place the following ingredients in a bowl in the order given—do not beat 
or stir at this point. 


1 cup sugar 1% tsp. salt 

2 eggs 1 tsp. baking powder 
1 4 cup cocoa 14 tsp. soda 

14 cup shortening 114 cups cake flour 


Now add 14 cup boiling water to all the ingredients, beat 3 minutes with 
rotary beater, (2 min. with electric mixer). Bake in greased square pan 35 
to 40 minutes. Needs no frosting. May be served with whipped cream as a 
special dessert. 


CRUMB CAKE 
2 cups brown sugar (dark) 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
2 cups flour 1 cup sour milk 
1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon soda 
14 cup shortening 14 cup nut meats (chopped) 


1 egg 


Blend sugar, flour, salt and shortening. Measure one cup of this mixture 
and set aside. To remainder, add egg; stir and then add cinnamon. To the 
sour milk add the soda and beat 14 min. after adding to mixture. Stir in 
nut meats to first mixture. Pour batter into oblong pan (8” x 11”) and sprinkle 
crumb mixture on top of uncooked cake. Bake 30 min. at 350° F. 


44 CAKES 


CALIFORNIA NUT & RAISIN CAKE 


1 cup seeded raisins 114 cups flour 
1 cup sugar 14 teaspoon salt 
14 cup shortening 34, cup raisin liquid 
2 eggs 1 cup finely cut walnuts 
14 teaspoon each of cloves, cinna- _—‘1 teapsoon soda 
mon, nutmeg and allspice 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Simmer raisins in 114 cups of water 20 minutes; cool. Mix sugar and 
shortening, add eggs well beaten, spices and vanilla. Beat well; add flour 
and salt and liquid from raisins; add chopped raisins and nuts. Beat thor- 
oughly and add soda dissolved in a little hot water. Bake in loaf pan which 
has been lined with paper and greased, in oven 325° about 45 minutes. Turn 
out and cool. 


Frosting: 


Beat 1 egg, add 1% Ib. melted butter, 2 cups of sugar, 34, tsp. vanilla. Beat 
until thick enough to spread; then ice the cake. 


DARK CHRISTMAS FRUITCAKE 


1 cup currants 114 teaspoons cinnamon 

3 cups light or dark raisins 114 teaspoons ground cloves 
14 cup diced preserved orange peel ‘1 teaspoon baking soda 

14 cup diced preserved lemon peel 1 cup soft shortening 


114 cups diced preserved citron 1 cup brown sugar, packed 

1 cup halved candied cherries 6 eggs, separated . 

1 cup diced preserved pineapple 14 square unsweetened chocolate, 

1 cup pecan halves melted 

1 cup blanched almonds, cut 4 cup fresh, frozen, or canned 
lengthwise lemon juice | 

2 cups sifted all-purpose flour 14 cup orange juice 


1 teaspoon nutmeg 


Thoroughly grease 314”-deep 9” or 4”-deep 10” tube pan. Cut heavy 
waxed paper to fit bottom and sides of pan, Line pan with waxed paper (be 
sure paper fits snugly), and lightly grease paper. Or use aluminum foil 
without greasing. In large bowl, thoroughly mix currants, raisins, peels, 
citron, cherries, pineapple, and nuts with 1 cup flour until all are coated with 
flour. Start heating oven to 300° F. Sift remaining 1 cup flour with spices 
and soda. 


In large electric-mixer bowl, with mixer at medium speed, or “cream’’, 
blend shortening with sugar until light and fluffy. Add egg yolks, one at a 
time, beating thoroughly after each addition. Then add melted chocolate. 
At low speed, or “blend,”” beat in alternately, just until smooth, flour mixture 
and fruit juices. When mixture is thoroughly blended, stir by hand into 


CAKES 45 


fruit mixture. 
tube pan. 
out clean. 


Beat egg whites until stiff; fold into cake mixture. 
Bake 2 hrs. 20 min., or until cake tester inserted in center comes 
Cool completely in pan; remove paper; then wrap fruitcake 


Turn into 


tightly in waxed paper, saran, or aluminum foil; then refrigerate. 


DARK FRUIT CAKE #1 


2 Ibs. seeded raisins 

2 Ibs. currants 

14 Ib. chopped candied pineapple 
14 Ib. candied cherries 

1 Ib. chopped citron 

2 cups sherry wine or fruit juice 
2 cups shortening 

2 cups brown sugar 

12 eggs 

1 glass jelly 


Combine fruits, add sherry; cover and let stand one night. 


and salt together three times. 
jelly and honey. 


414 cups sifted flour 

14 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 

2 teaspoons ground cloves 

3 oz. grated candied orange peel 
1 oz. grated candied lemon peel 
1 Ib. chopped blanched almonds 
114 Ibs. broken pecan meats 

2 tablespoons vanilla 

1 cup honey 


Sift flour, spices 


Cream shortening and sugar together; add 
Beat eggs and add to this mixture; add flour, spices and 


salt gradually. Then add fruits and nuts a small amount at at time until 


thoroughly blended; also orange and lemon peel and vanilla. 


pans in slow oven (300° to 325°). 


Bake in greased 


Bake large cakes 3 hrs., small ones 1 hr. 
This recipe makes 3 large and several small cakes. 


Cool in cake pans. When 


cold, garnish with fruits and nuts and fruit glaze. 


Glaze for Fruit Cake 


1 cup sugar 
14 cup corn syrup 


Cook until mixture is thick, cool; spread on cake. 


14 cup water 


While moist add fruit 


and nuts for garnish. Store in covered containers. 


MOIST FRUIT CAKE #Il 


1 Ib. butter 

1 Ib. sugar 

1 Ib. flour 

14 Ib. citron, sliced 

14, Ib. candied orange peel, sliced 
1 Ib. dates 

1 Ib. seeded raisins 

1 Ib. almonds, blanched 

14 Ib. candied lemon peel, sliced 
1 Ib. nuts (Brazil, pecans, walnuts 


or mixed) 
1 cup molasses 
12 eggs 
2 teaspoons cinnamon 
14 teaspoon allspice 
14 teaspoon cloves 
1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon lemon extract 
1 teaspoon orange extract 
1 teaspoon nutmeg 


Cream butter until very soft and creamy, add sugar gradually and cream 
well after each addition; add well beaten egg yolks and mix thoroughly; add 


46 CAKES 


the molasses, lemon and orange extract and beat well. Sift flour (use bread 
flour), spices and salt together. Put nuts and fruit in large bowl, and sift 
flour and spices over them and thoroughly mix. Beat egg whites until stiff 
but not dry. Add floured nuts and fruit alternately with egg whites to the 
creamed mixture until all are used. Turn into brown-paper-lined pans filling 
at least 34, full. Decorate each cake with pieces of candied pineapple, can- 
died cherries, citron and blanched almonds, being careful to lay fruit and 
nuts on gently, so as not to press into batter. Bake in slow (250°) oven 214 
to 3 hours, depending on size of cakes. Immediately when cake is removed 
from the oven, pour two tablespoons brandy, apricot brandy or glazing syrup 
over cake. 


It is not necessary to cut the nuts and fruit, as cake cuts more attractively 
when these are left whole. This cake will keep indefinitely. This recipe has 
been in constant use since 1847. 


DATE NUT LOAF CAKE 


4 eggs 2 seven-oz. pkgs. pitted dates, 
1 cup sugar chopped 

3 cups sifted flour 1 Ib. broken pecan meats 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon vanilla 


1 teaspoon salt 


Beat egg yolks thoroughly; add sugar, sift flour, salt and baking powder; 
add chopped dates and nuts. Combine with egg, sugar mixture. Beat well. 
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites, add vanilla and bake in loaf pan for 1 hour 
cteo2o mrs 


DEVILS FOOD CAKE 


1. 14 cup bacon drippings 2. 4 eggs 
1 cup brown sugar 1 cup brown sugar 
Cream together Cream together 


3. Sift 214 cups of flour three times, add level tsp. baking powder and 14 
tsp. salt. Mix #1 and #2 with #3, using 14 cup sour milk. Beat thor- 
oughly; add 14 cup boiling water, level tsp. soda and 2 squares choco- 
late. Mix with other ingredients. Bake in moderate oven. 


Icing: 
1 egg white 2 tbsp. water 
%® cup sugar 


Put in double boiler and beat constantly for 7 min. When done beat in 
12 chopped marshmallows and 1 tsp. vanilla. 


CAKES 47 





DIXIE WHITE CAKE 


114 cups sugar 214 teaspoons baking powder 

14 cup Crisco 1 cup sweet milk 

214 cups cake flour 1 teaspoon almond extract or va- 
3 eggs nilla, if you prefer it 


Cream sugar with shortening; add all other ingredients at one time. Beat 
with mixer for 3 minutes, by hand beat 5 minutes. Bake in loaf pan for 40 
minutes at 350°, or until firm. 


DUTCH APPLE CAKE 


Batter: 
14, cup sugar 3 eggs 
14 cup butter or margarine 
Filling: 
1, cup brown sugar Grated lemon rind 
14 teaspoon cinnamon 114 cups flour 
5 medium-sized apples 114 teaspoons baking powder 


Peel, core, and slice apples and sprinkle with mixture of the brown sugar 
and cinnamon. Cream butter and sugar; add unbeaten eggs one at a time, 
stirring well after each; add lemon rind; add sifted flour and baking powder, 
a little at a time, folding in carefully. This makes a very thick batter. Spread 
half of batter in an 8 inch square greased baking dish; cover with about half 
of the sliced apples; and spread on remaining half of batter; arrange balance 
of apple slices in pattern on top. Bake 1 hour at 325 degrees F. Yield: 12 
servings. 


FEATHER SPICE CAKE 


214 cups Swansdown cake flour 14 cup butter or other shortening 
214 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs, unbeaten 

4 teaspoon salt 1, cup molasses 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup sugar 

14 teaspoon mace 34, cup milk 


14 teaspoon cloves 


Sift flour once; measure and add baking powder and sift together three 
times. Cream butter thoroughly, add sugar gradually; cream together until 
light and fluffy; add eggs, one at a time, beating thoroughly after each addi- 
tion. Then add molasses and blend. Add flour alternately with the milk, a 
small amount at a time. Beat after each addition until smooth. Bake at 
375° F. for 25 to 30 minutes. 


May be baked in layers and iced with Mocha Frosting, or cooked in loaf 
pan and iced with white icing or Mocha Frosting. 


48 CAKES 


ELECTION CAKE 
2 pkgs. dry, active yeast or 2cakes, 4 eggs 


compressed 1 teaspoon salt 
14 cup warm water 114 teaspoons cinnamon 
2 teaspoons sugar 4 teaspoon each cloves, mace, 
114 cups milk, scalded nutmeg 
5 cups sifted enriched flour (about) 114 cups seedless raisins 
1 cup butter or margarine 14 cup chopped citron 


114 cups brown sugar, firmly packed 


Dissolve yeast in water (lukewarm for compressed yeast); warm not hot, for 
dry active yeast). Add 2 teaspoons sugar. Cool scalded milk to lukewarm 
and add. Add 114 cups sifted flour. Cover and let rise in warm place until 
very bubbly—about 1 hour. Cream butter or margarine; add brown sugar 
gradually, while creaming. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each 
addition; add to yeast mixture. Mix and sift remaining flour, salt and spices; 
stir in, adding more flour if necessary to make a stiff batter. Beat until 
smooth. Stir in raisins and citron. Turn into a greased and floured 10 inch 
tube cake pan, filling not more than 24 full. Cover. Let rise in warm place 
until doubled in bulk, about 2144 hours. Bake in moderate oven 350 degrees 
F., | hour, 15 min. Cool. Frost top with thin lemon glaze and sprinkle with 
grated lemon peel. Serves 24 to 30 people. 


GATEAU PRINCESS CAKE 


4 eggs 6 tsps. baking powder 
1 cup shortening 4 tsp. salt 

2 cups powdered sugar 16 tsp. milk 

4 cups cake flour 1 tsp. orange extract 


Grated rind of 1 orange 


Cream the shortening with the sugar; add grated rind and extract. Sepa- 
rate eggs, add the well beaten yolks to the shortening and sugar mixture. 
Add salt to whites of eggs and beat stiff. Sift flour with baking powder; add 
to mixture with the milk. Lastly, add the beaten whites. Bake in 3 layers 
in oven 350° F. for about 20 minutes. Put layers together with orange filling. 


Orange Filling 


Mix 5 tbsps. flour with 1 cup sugar and grated rind of 1 orange; add 14 
cup orange juice and juice of 1 lemon. Add to this 14 cup cold water and a 
well beaten egg. Add | tbsp. butter and a few grains of salt. Cook all to- 
gether in a double boiler until smooth and thick. Cool and put between lay- 
ers. Ice top and sides with white icing flavored with grated orange peel. 


CAKES 49 





FRESH ORANGE LAYER CAKE 


2% cups sifted cake flour 14 cup shortening 

114 cups granulated sugar 1 tsp. grated orange rind 

14 tsp. baking soda 14 cup unstrained orange juice 
1 tsp. salt 34, cup water or milk 

3 tsps. baking powder 2 eggs, unbeaten 


Heat oven to 350° F. Line bottom of 2 8” cake pans with waxed paper; 
then grease paper. Sift together first five ingredients into mixing bowl. Drop 
in shortening. Add orange rind and about two-thirds of combined orange 
juice and water. Beat briskly with spoon 300 full strokes or 2 min. Add 
remaining 14 of combined orange juice and water and unbeaten eggs; beat 
2 minutes, scraping bowl often. Pour into pans and bake for 30 minutes. 
Cool on wire rack about 10 min. before removing from pan. Fill and frost 
with any desired frosting. 


GERMAN’S CHOCOLATE CAKE 


1 pkg. German’s sweet chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 
14 cup boiling water 14 teaspoon salt 
1 cup butter, margarine or short- 1 teaspoon soda 
ening 214 cups sifted cake flour 
2 cups sugar 1 cup buttermilk 
4 egg yolks, unbeaten 4 egg whites 


Melt chocolate in boiling water; cool. Cream butter and sugar until light 
and fluffy. Add egg yolks, one at a time, beating after each. Add chocolate 
and vanilla. Sift together salt, soda and flour; add alternately with the but- 
termilk to chocolate mixture, beating well after each addition. Beat egg 
whites until stiff peaks will form. Fold into batter; then pour into three 8” 
layer pans, lined on the bottoms with paper. Bake in oven 350° 35 to 40 
minutes. Cool. Frost tops only. | 


Coconut-Pecan Frosting 


Combine 1 cup evaporated milk, 1 cup sugar, 3 egg yolks, 14 Ib. margarine 
and 1 tsp. vanilla in a saucepan. Cook and stir over medium heat until mix- 
ture thickens—about 12 minutes. Add about 11 cups of coconut and 1 cup 
chopped pecans. Beat until frosting is cool and thick enuogh to spread. 


50 CAKES 


HOT MILK CAKE 


2 cups sugar 114 teaspoons baking powder 
2 cups cake flour } 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup sweet milk 4 eggs 


4 |b. butter 


Beat eggs thoroughly; add sugar, mix and beat until creamy. Add flour 
which has baking powder sifted in it. Put milk and butter in double boiler, 
let come to boiling point then pour over the egg, sugar, flour mixture. Beat 
well. Put in loaf pan which has been greased and lined and bake 40 to 45 
minutes in oven 350° F. 

This may be iced with any desired icing. Makes a splendid layer cake, as 
well as loaf cake. 


JAM CAKE 
14 cup shortening 224 cups sifted flour 
1144 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 
2 eggs 4 teaspoons baking powder 
24 cup blackberry jam 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
2, cup chopped hickory nuts 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
7, cup seedless raisins 2, cup milk 


Blend the shortening and sugar and add the eggs slightly beaten. Add the 
jam, nuts and raisins. Sift dry ingredients and add alternately with milk. 
Pour into tube cake pan and bake in 350° F. oven about 1 hr. 


Icing 


14 cup red currant jelly 2 tablespoons cold water 
144 cups granulated sugar 2 egg whites 
Dash of salt 


Mix the jelly, sugar and water and cook over low heat until it forms a soft 


ball in water. Pour the syrup over stiffly beaten egg whites and beat to 
spreading consistency. 


LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 


4 egg whites 14 teaspoon salt 
74 cup butter or margarine 34, cup sweet milk 
3 cups cake flour 14 teaspoon vanilla 


114 cups sugar 


Cream the sugar and butter thoroughly, add vanilla, sift baking powder 
and salt with the flour; add alternately with the milk and creamed mixture. 


Beat until smooth; fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour in 2 cake pa 
bake in over 350° about 25 minutes. pans and 


CAKES 5] 


Filling for Lady Baltimore Cake 


Cream together 3 tablespoons butter, 4 cups of sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
2 tablespoons lemon juice, 14, teaspoon salt. Add enough milk to make con- 
sistency to spread. To one-half this mixture add 144 cup chopped walnuts, 
14 cup raisins, 14, cup cherries and 14 cup dates and mix well. Put between 
layers. Cover the sides and top of cake with other half of icing. 


LANE CAKE 
31% cups sifted all-purpose flour 2 cups granulated sugar 
314 tsps. baking powder 1 tsp. vanilla extract 
14 tsp. salt 1 cup milk 
1 cup butter or margarine 8 egg whites 


Sift flour with baking powder and salt. In large mixing bowl, with mixer 
at medium speed, cream the sugar and butter until fluffy; add vanilla. Beat 
in alternately the flour mixture and milk. In another large bowl, beat egg 
whites until they form a stiff peak. Gently fold batter into egg whites. Turn 
into cake pans and bake in 375° oven 15 to 20 minutes. Cool. Fill, frost 
as given below. 


Lane Filling 
8 egg yolks 1 cup grated fresh coconut; or 1 
144 cups granulated sugar can flaked coconut 
14 cup butter or margarine 1 cup cut-up candied cherries 
1 cup chopped pecans 1, cup whiskey or wine 


1 cup finely chopped seeded raisins 


In saucepan beat egg yolks slightly. Cook with sugar and butter over low 
heat, stirring, about 5 min. or until slightly thickened. Add remaining in- 
gredients. Cool, then spread between cake layers. 


Lane Frosting: 


214 cups granulated sugar 2, cup water 
pinch of salt 2 egg whites 
1, cup dark corn syrup 1 tsp. vanilla 


In saucepan, combine sugar, salt, corn syrup, and water. Cook over low 
heat until sugar dissolves. Bring to boil, uncovered, without stirring. In 
small mixing bowl, with mixer at high speed, beat egg whites until foamy; 
add 3 tbsps. syrup mixture, beating until stiff, but not dry. Boil rest of syrup 
to 240° F. or until it spins a thread from spoon. Pour syrup slowly over egg 
white, beating until frosting begins to lose gloss and hold shape. Add vanilla. 
Spread frosting over top and sides of filled cake layers, adding a drop or two 
of hot_water if it becomes too thick. 


ay CAKES 


LEMON JELLO SURPRISE CAKE 


1 pkg. yellow cake mix 34, cup wesson oil 
1 pkg. lemon jello 4 eggs 
3/, cup water 1 tsp. lemon extract 


Pour cake mix in bowl. Pour dry jello in same bowl. Make well in center 
of dry mixture; add liquids and mix well by hand. Add eggs one at a time. 
Mix well. Bake at 325° F. for 1 hour in tube pan. 


LOUISIANA FRUIT CAKE 


14 Ib. butter 6 eggs beaten separately 

1 Ib. sugar 1 teaspoon ground nutmeg 

1 Ib. flour 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
114 Ibs. seeded raisins 1 teaspoon baking powder | 

1 qt. pecans, broken 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Cream butter and sugar; add beaten egg yolks, then alternately sifted dry 
ingredients and beaten whites of eggs. Lastly add the nuts and raisins. Bake 
slowly in well greased and paper lined pan at 270° F. for 3 hours. (Makes a 
delicious crunchy cake). 


MARLBORO CAKE 


Cream 14 cup butter with a cup of dark brown sugar until very soft. Add 
3 egg yolks, a cup of buttermilk, teaspoon cinnamon, 1% teaspoon each of 
cloves, nutmeg, mace and salt, a teaspoon vanilla, 214 cups flour, a teaspoon 
soda, and 3 beaten egg whites. Bake 25 minutes in two layer cake pans in 
moderate oven. Unmold carefully and put together with whipped cream, 
slightly sweetened and flavored with vanilla and almond extract. Frost the 
top and sides with the whipped cream mixture and sprinkle with toasted 
almonds and cashews. 


NEVER FAIL CHOCOLATE CAKE 


14 cup butter 114 cups flour, sifted 
1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 eggs pinch of salt 
214 squares bitter chocolate, melted 14 cup milk 
or 5 tablespoons cocoa 2 teaspoons baking powder 


Cream the butter and sugar together; add yolks of eggs, chocolate, vanilla 
and salt. Mix thoroughly; add milk alternately with flour with baking pow- 
der sifted in it. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in greased square 
cake pan about 30 minutes at 325° F. Ice with Fudge Icing. 


CAKES es: 


OLD TIME DARK FRUITCAKE 
Temp.: 275° F. 


114 cups prunes 2 tsp. allspice 

1 cup dried apricots 2 tsp. cinnamon 

2 cups seedless raisins 114 tsp. nutmeg 

114 cups seeded raisins 1 tsp. mace 

114 cups currants 14 tsp. ginger 

114 cups sliced dates | 14 tsp. powdered cloves 
214 cups diced preserved citron 14 tsp. baking soda 
114 cups diced preserved pineapple 11, tsp. salt 

114 cups halved candied cherries 1 cup soft shortening 
1 cup diced preserved orange peel 114 cups brown sugar 
1 cup diced preserved lemon peel 6 eggs, unbeaten 

114 cups blanched almonds 14 cup molasses 

1 cup pecan halves 2, cup strawberry jam 
3 cups sifted all-purpose flour 14 cup sherry 


Start heating oven. With 2 thicknesses greased brown paper and | thick- 
ness greased waxed paper, line 2 9” tube pans or 3 714” x 319” x 214” loaf 
pans, plus 9” x 5” x 3” loaf pan. Rinse prunes, apricots; cover with water; 
boil 5 min. Drain, cool. Cut prunes from pits into pieces; slice apricots. 
Rinse and drain raisins, currants; then add to prunes and apricots. Add 
dates, citron, pineapple, cherries, orange peel, lemon peel, chopped almonds, 
pecans; dredge well in 14 cup of flour. 


In large electric mixing bowl, with mixer at medium speed, or “‘cream”’, 
blend sugar and shortening until light and fluffy. Add well beaten eggs, 
black molasses, and strawberry preserves; mix thoroughly; add the flour with 
spices, baking soda, and salt sifted in it. Stir in by hand, the fruits, nuts 
and peels, then the sherry. | 


Put in the pans, fill to 114 inches from the top and bake 275° F. for 3 to 
344 hours. Test with straw to see if done, and if it comes out clean it is 
ready to remove from oven. ™ 


Prepare the candied fruits, nuts or other decorations you want on the cakes 
and have them ready. Make a syrup of 34, cup of sugar, 14, cup water and a 
pinch of cream of tartar or baking powder. Cook toa medium syrup, 220° F. 
Wipe crystals from sides of pan and pour syrup quickly over the cakes. Set 
your decorations on cakes while syrup is hot. After cake is thoroughly cold, 
store in tightly covered tin and at intervals pour a little sherry or brandy over 
the cake. Ina week it will be ready to cut. The longer you keep it the better 
it gets. 


54 CAKES 





ORANGE COVERED CAKE 
1 cup black walnuts, chopped 1 cup buttermilk 
1 cup cut-up dates 1 teaspoon soda 


Put dates and nuts in bowl; sprinkle with soda, pour buttermilk over mix- 
ture and let sit. 


24 cup butter 214 cups sifted flour 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
2 eggs 


Cream butter and sugar; add to two well beaten egg yolks and add this to 
first mixture. Beat in flour to which baking powder has been added. Fold 
in two egg whites beaten stiff. Bake in loaf cake pan which has been well 
greased and lined with waxed paper in 350° F. oven about | hour. Grate rind 
of two oranges, add to juice and 1 cup of sugar and pour this over cake when 
it comes out of oven. 


OUR LADY CAKE 


1 cup butter or margarine 1 teaspoon almond extract 
214 cups powdered sugar 14 teaspoon vanilla 

4 cups cake flour 4 teaspoon salt 

5 teaspoons baking powder _ 10 egg whites 


1 cup sweet milk 


Cream the shortening, sift the sugar and add gradually. Beat well. Sift 
the flour, then measure it. Sift again with the baking powder; add salt to 
egg whites, beat stiff, but not too dry. Add flavorings to egg and sugar mix- 
ture; add flour and milk alternately, beating hard after each addition. Add 
the beaten egg whites. Bake in 3 layers in 375° F. oven for about 20 min. 
or until a toothpick thrust thru the cake comes out clean. 


Icing: 


Beat until very light two egg yolks; add 114 cups of sugar and beat. Add 
14 cup sweet milk and a few grains of salt. Melt four squares of chocolate. 
Cook first mixture, stirring hard over hot water until it boils up hard. Con- 
tinue to cook for 2 min. Take from fire, add the melted chocolate and va- 
nilla, beat until thick. Cool, then ice cake. Sprinkle with pecan halves. 


CAKES 95 


POUND CAKE 
2 cups butter 4 scant cups cake flour 
2 cups granulated sugar 14 teaspoon grated nutmeg 


10 eggs, or enough to weigh a ponnd 1, teaspoon salt 


Beat the butter and sugar ‘til very light and creamy, by hand; add the well 
beaten egg yolks. Sift together twice the flour, salt and nutmeg and add a 
little at the time, beating thoroughly. Whip the whites of eggs ‘til very stiff 
and fold them in the cake batter as gently as possible. Line cake pan, a 
steeple pan is best. First grease the pan and line with brown paper, grease 
the paper and then put in the batter. Bake in moderate oven 325° F. for 114 
hrs. When cold, the cake may be iced or not, whichever is preferred. 


POUND CAKE II 
1 Ib. sugar 1 Ib. flour 
3/, Ib. butter 1 tbsp. flavoring Brandy 


10 eggs 


Cream the sugar with butter; add the yolks of eggs one at the time, beat 
well. Add the twice sifted flour gradually, beating all the while; then add the 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Stir in 1 teaspoon vanilla and 1 wine glassful of 
brandy. Bake in well greased and paper lined tube cake pan in slow oven 
about 325° F. for 1 hour or until cake leaves side of pan. 


GEORGIA POUND CAKE 


1 box confectioner’s sugar 3 cups, plus 2 tbsp. cake flour 


3 sticks butter } 14 tsp. lemon flavoring 
6 large eggs 1 tsp. vanilla flavoring 


Cream butter; add sugar, beat well. Add one egg at a time, beating mix- 
ture thoroughly after each addition. Sift flour into mixture about a third at 
atime. Bake in 275° F. oven in a 9” tube pan well greased for about | hour 
20 minutes. 


LOUISIANA POUND CAKE 


2 cups butter 4 cups flour 
3 cups sugar 1 tsp. ground mace 
8 eggs 2 tsp. baking powder 


Cream butter and sugar; add well beaten egg yolks. Stir in flour which 
has baking powder and mace sifted in it. When well blended, fold in stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. Bake in loaf pan which has been well greased and 
paper lined in a moderate oven, 325° F. for 114 hours or until cake leaves 
the sides of the pan. 


36 CAKES 





PETITS FOURS 


Bake a sponge or any butter cake in a shallow pan so that when the cake 
is done it will not be more than 1| inch thick. When cool, slice in strips, then 
cut in fancy shapes or squares. Cut each small cake crosswise or split. Fill 
with whipped cream or any desired icing. Put together and ice all over. 
Marshmallow cream makes a nice filling. If there will be a large party, 
color icing in different colors, place a half pecan meat on some. Delicious 
and attractive. 


REFRIGERATOR FRUIT CAKE 


32 (14 Ib.) regular size marsh- 1 cup undiluted evaporated milk 
maliows 2 cups golden raisins 

1, cup Port wine or orange juice 114 cups chopped nuts 

1 cup finely chopped dates 2, cup chopped candied pineapple 

34, cup chopped candied cherries 14 cup diced candied orange rind 

114 cups diced mixed candied fruits 14 teaspoon nutmeg 

14 teaspoon cinnamon 814 cups Graham cracker crumbs 


14 teaspoon cloves 


Dice marshmallows finely with scissors—dip scissors into water as you 
snip to prevent sticking. Pour milk and wine over marshmallows and set 
aside. 


Prepare remaining ingredients and add to marshmallow mixture. Blend 
well until all crumbs are moistened—it takes the hands to do this. Line two 
loaf pans with waxed paper and press mixture firmly into pans. Chill in 
refrigerator for two days before turning out and cutting. 


PINEAPPLE CAKE 
214 cups sifted cake flour 114 cups sugar 
214 teaspoons double acting bak- 3 eggs 
ing powder 1 can (9 oz.) crushed pineapple 
14 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 
14 cup butter or margarine 4 cup water 


Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt. Cream butter and sugar; 
beat in eggs thoroughly, one at a time. Add pineapple (including syrup in 
can) and vanilla. Mix in sifted dry ingredients, alternately with water, in 4 
additions; begin and end with dry ingredients. Turn into buttered and flour- 
ed layer cake pans. Bake in moderate oven about 35 minutes. Turn out of 
pans and cool. Fill and frost with sweetened whipped cream. 


CAKES 37 


ONE AND A HALF POUND PECAN NUT CAKE 


1 Ib. shelled pecans 14 ounces of well-sifted flour 
114 Ibs. seeded raisins 2 tsp. ground mace 

1 Ib. sugar 14 cup wine 

6 eggs 14 Ib. butter 


Mix butter and sugar together; add well beaten eggs. Sift flour and mace 
together; flour fruit and nuts with half the flour, mix all ingredients together. 
Bake slowly for 2 hours in well greased and paper lined tube cake pan. Pour 
wine over it when baked. A very popular cake! 


POMPEIN CAKE 


114 cups sugar 1 cup sweet milk 

14 cup Crisco 1 teapsoon vanilla 

214 cups cake flour 2 teaspoons orange juice 

3 eggs 114 cups cooked prunes, finely 
214 teapsoons baking powder mashed 


Cream sugar with shortening; add all other ingredients at one time except 
the prunes. Beat with mixer for 3 min. Put half the batter in a tubed loaf 
pan which has been greased and lined with paper. Put a layer of prunes, 
then the remaining batter. Bake in moderate oven 350° for 40 min., or until 
done. May be iced with Seafoam Icing. 


QUEEN ELIZABETH I! CAKE 


Pour | cup of boiling water over 1 cup chopped dates and | tsp. soda. Let 
stand while the following is being mixed: 


Cream together: 1 cup sugar 


4 cup butter 

Add: 1 beaten egg 

Sift together: 114 cups flour 
1 tsp. baking powder 
1, tsp. salt 


Add flour mixture to creamed sugar and butter mix, then add the cooled 
dates. Add 14 cup nuts, ground or chopped, and | tsp. of vanilla. Bake in 
sheet pan (not larger than 8 x 12 inches) 35 minutes in moderate oven. 


Icing 


8 tbsp. brown sugar 2 tbsp. butter 
4 tbsp. cream 


Boil 3 minutes and spread over the cake. Sprinkle nuts and cocoanut over 
frosting if desired. 


58 CAKES 


PRESIDENT EISENHOWER’S FAVORITE CAKE 


14 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups sugar 22 cup cocoa dissolved 

3 eggs in 14 cup boiling water 
1 cup sour milk 4 teaspoon salt 

214 cups sifted cake flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 


1 teaspoon baking powder 


Sift flour, baking powder, soda and salt; cream the shortening; slowly beat 
in the sugar. Add egg yolks and vanilla. Add cocoa to flour mixture alter- 
nately with milk. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into two greased 
layer cake pans. Bake 25 minutes in 375° F. oven. Frost with Seven Min- 
ute Icing. 


PRUNE CAKE 
1 Ib. prunes 1 cup chopped walnuts 
1 pkg. spice cake mix 1 recipe 7-minute frosting 


Cook the prunes without sweetening; drain well, reserving liquid. Pit and 
chop enough prunes to make 114 cups. Stir nuts into dry cake mix. Then 
mix cake as pkg. directs, substituting 34 cup prune liquid plus 34 cup water 
or milk (whichever the mix calls for) for the 1 cup liquid specified on pkg. 
Stir in 1 cup chopped prunes when you add the liquid; bake as pkg. directs. 
Frost with 7-minute frosting to which other 14 cup chopped prunes has been 
added. 


RUM CAKE 
8 eggs Juice and rind of 1 lemon 
2 cups granulated sugar 2 tablespoons flour 
2 tablespoons fine bread crumbs 14 teaspoon baking powder 
14 Ib. almonds, blanched and grat- 


ed fine 


Beat egg yolks until light; slowly add sugar, beat until light; add bread 
crumbs, almonds, lemon rind and juice; beat in flour which has had baking 
powder sifted in it. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in loaf pan 
which has been greased and lined with paper, about 50 minutes at 325°. 
After the cake cools, split crosswise and put together with following filling: 


Filling: 

1 glass currant jelly 1 cup finely cut English walnuts 
Icing: 

4 tablespoons heavy cream 2 tablespoons rum 


2 cups sugar 
Beat until thick; cover tops and sides of cake. 


CAKES 39 


SAM HOUSTON’S FAVORITE WHITE CAKE 


234, cups sifted cake flour 114 cups sugar 
4 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon yanilla 
34, teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon almond extract 
34, cup butter, margarine, or 1 cup milk 
shortening 4 egg whites 


Start oven at 375° F. Grease three 8” cake pans. Sift cake flour, baking 
powder, salt together several times. Work fat until it looks and feels soft. 
Then add sugar gradually and continue working until mixture is smooth and 
creamy. Mix vanilla extract, almond extract and milk together. Now stir 
sifted dry ingredients and liquid into the creamed mixture alternately. Mix 
well but don’t beat. Whip egg whites until they hold a peak and fold into 
batter. Pour into cake pans and bake 20 to 25 minutes. Cool about 5 min., 
then invert over a cooling rack, remove pans and cool the cakes. 


Chocolate Frosting: 


3 sq. (3 oz.) unsweetened chocolate 3 egg yolks 


3 cups sifted confectioner’s sugar 4 cup melted butter or mar- 
Dash salt garine 
4 cup hot water 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 


Melt chocolate over hot water. When melted remove from water and stir 
in confectioner’s sugar, salt and hot water. Beat in egg yolks one at a time. 
Then add the fat a little at a time along with vanilla extract. Beat well and 
spread between cake layers, around side of cake and over the top. Decorate 
with pecan or walnut halves. 


SALLY WHITE FRUIT CAKE 


1 Ib. butter 1 Ib. almonds, blanched and chop- 
1 Ib. flour ped 

1, Ibs. sugar 1 wine glass brandy 

12 eggs 3 tablespoons cinnamon 

2 Ibs. citron, finely chopped 2 teaspoons mace 

2 small coconuts, grated 1 teaspoon nutmeg 


1 wine glass sherry 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs, beating in one at the time. Mix 
enough flour with fruit and nuts to cover well; add remaining flour to butter 
mixture or batter. Add spices, brandy, and coconut; finally fruits and nuts 
to batter. Pour into 2 tube cake pans which have been greased and lined 
with greased paper. Bake in slow oven (300°) approximately 2 hours, or 
until straw comes out clean after piercing cake. Makes 2 cakes. 


60 CAKES 


SEA-FOAM CAKE 


1 cup milk 314 tsps. baking powder 

3 egg whites 1 tsp. salt 

14 cup vegetable shortening 1144 cups granulated sugar 
2 cups sifted cake flour 134, tsps. vanilla 


Measure sifted flour, baking powder, salt and sugar into a sifter; sift into 
a medium mixing bowl; drop in shortening. Pour in 24 of milk, then vanilla, 
and beat at low speed 2 min. Add egg whites and remaining milk, and beat 
on low speed 2 min. Pour batter into pans. Bake 35 min. in 350° F. oven. 
Fill cooled Sea-Foam Cake layers with Butterscotch Cream Filling. 


_ Butterscotch Cream Filling: 


3 tbsps. all-purpose flour 3 egg yolks (left from cake) 
6 tbsps. brown sugar 2 tbsps. butter or margarine 
1 tsp. salt 14 tsp. vanilla 


1 cup milk, scalded 


Mix flour, half sugar, and salt in top of a double boiler; gradually stir in 
milk. Cook over boiling water, stirring, until smooth and thickened—about 
10 min. Pour slowly, while beating with a spoon, over egg yolks, which have 
been beaten with remaining sugar. Return to double boiler and cook 2 min. 
over boiling water, while stirring. Remove from heat; stir in butter and cool. 
Add vanilla and spread between layers of cake. 


Frosting Sea-Foam Cake 


2 egg whites, unbeaten 5 tablespoons water 
114 cups brown sugar firmly packed 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Combine first three ingredients in top of double boiler. Beat until thor- 
oughly mixed. Place over rapidly boiling water, and beat constantly with 
beater, cooking for 7 min., or until frosting stands in a peak on beater. Re- 
move from boiling water; add vanilla; beat until thick enough to spread. 


SOUR MILK CHOCOLATE CAKE 


14 cup shortening 2 cups sifted cake flour 
114 cups granulated sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
2 eggs 1 teaspoon soda 

1 tsp. vanilla flavoring 4 teaspoon salt 


3 squares (3 oz.) chocolate, melted 1 cup sour milk or buttermilk 


Cream shortening, add sugar and continue creaming until light. Beat in 
eggs, one at a time; stir in vanilla and chocolate. Sift flour, baking powder, 
soda, and salt and add to chocolate mixture alternately with the milk. Pour 
into greased cake pans and bake in moderate oven (375° F.) for 35 min. 
Makes 2 9” layers. 


CAKES einer 





TIPSY CAKE 
14 of white cake, sliced 14 cup brandy 
114 cups blanched almonds 1 cup sherry 


1 pt. whipping cream 


Soak cake in sherry. Make custard of 2 eggs, 14, cup sugar, 1 pt. milk, 
1] tsp. vanilla. 

Beat eggs until light; add sugar, beat well. Let milk come to boiling point, 
put over egg-sugar mixture. Put in double boiler and cook until thick. Put 
cake in serving dish, sprinkle with chopped almonds. Pour custard over cake 
and top with whipped cream flavored with the brandy. 


SWEET POTATO POUND CAKE 


1 pint of hot, mashed sweet potatoes 1 cup butter 


2 beaten eggs 3/4, Cup sugar 

14 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

114 cups bread flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 
14 cup milk Grated rind of 1 lemon 


To the hot, mashed sweet potatoes add the butter and beaten eggs, then 
the sugar mixed with the salt and cinnamon. Stir in the flour sifted with the 
baking power, alternately with the milk, and add the grated lemon rind. Bake 
in greased and floured cake pans about one hour in a moderate oven. 


Frosting for Sweet Potato Pound Cake 


114 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
3 tablespoons butter or 
14 cup cream 14 teaspoon lemon extract 


Boil sugar, cream and butter together to the soft-ball stage, cool and beat 
until thick enough to spread, add the flavoring. Coat the cake top and sides. 


TOMATO SOUP CAKE WITH CREAM CHEESE FROSTING 


1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

14 cup shortening 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 egg 1 teaspoon ground cloves 
1 can condensed tomato soup 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

2 cups flour 14 teapsoon salt 


2 tsps. baking powder 


Preheat skillet at 4 (300° F.) Cream sugar and shortening together. Add 
egg and tomato soup and mix well. Sift together flour, baking powder, soda, 
cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg and salt. Add to creamed mixture, beating until 
well blended. Line skillet with 3 layers wax paper. Pour batter into skillet 
and bake for 40 to 45 min. Place plate over skillet and invert. Remove 
paper immediately. When cool, spread with frosting. 


62 CAKES 





TEXAS CAKE 
6 ounces (114 pkgs.) German 214 cups sifted all-purpose flour 
sweet chocolate 4, tsp. salt 
1 cup margarine 1 tsp. soda 
2 cups sugar 1 cup buttermilk 
4 eggs, separated 1 tsp. vanilla 


Melt chocolate over hot water. Cream margarine and sugar. Blend in 
egg yolks and melted chocolate. Sift together dry ingredients and add alter- 
nately with buttermilk. Add vanilla and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Pour batter into three greased 8” cake pans. Bake 350° oven for 30 to 35 
min. Cool partially in pans, then turn out on racks to complete cooling. 


Filling and Topping: 


14 pint whipping cream, not whip- 1 cup sugar 

ped 1 cup chopped pecans 
14, pound butter 1 cup angel flake coconut 
3 egg yolks 


Mix cream, butter, egg yolks and sugar in saucepan and cook until it be- 
gins to thicken, about 12 min. It doesn’t seem very thick but thickens as it 
cools. Remove from heat. Add nuts and coconut and set aside to cool. 


VIENNESE FETE CAKE 


Cake: Glaze: 
1 cup chopped mixed candied fruits 3 sq. (3 oz.) unsweetened 
3 tbsps. rum chocolate 
114 cups sifted all-purpose flour 3 tbsps. butter or margarine 
1 tsp. baking powder 3 tbsps. confectioner’s sugar 


1 cup butter or margarine 

14 tsp. almond or vanilla extract 
1 cup sugar 

4 eggs 


Start your oven at 325° F. or slow and grease a 9” x 5” x 3” loaf pan or a 
2 quart oven proof bowl or a fluted baking mold. Take your choice. Soak 
candied fruit in the rum while you make the cake batter. 


Sift flour and baking powder together. Work or cream butter or marga- 
rine and flavoring extract together. Add 14 cup sugar gradually and con- 
tinue working until creamy. Now separate eggs. Drop yolks one at a time 
into the creamed mixture, beating hard after each addition. Stir in flour 
mixture thoroughly along with the candied fruit-rum combination. 


Beat egg whites until they hold a floppy point. Add remaining half cup of 
sugar gradually and continue beating until mixture is stiff and satin-smooth. 


CAKES 63 


Mix gently or fold into batter, pour into greased pan and bake 1 hour or until 
cake pulls away from sides of pan. Remove from pan and cool. 

To make the glaze: Melt chocolate and butter or margarine together over 
hot water. Remove from heat and stir in confectioner’s sugar smoothly. 
Spoon or pour over surface of cake. Store in refrigerator. 


Cream Cheese Frosting: 


1 3-ounce pkg. cream cheese About 214 cups sifted confec- 
1 tablespoon lemon juice tioner’s sugar 
14 teaspoon grated lemon rind 


Blend together cheese and lemon juice. Add rind. Sift in sugar gradually, 
blending well after each addition. Cover top and sides of cake. If desired, 
sprinkle top with 14 cup shaved Brazil nuts. 


WACKY CAKE 
114 cups cake flour 6 tbsp. cooking oil or melted 
1 cup sugar shortening 
3 tbsp. cocoa 1 tbsp. vinegar 
1 tsp. soda 1 tsp. vanilla 
14 tsp. salt 1 cup cold water 


Get out a baking dish. (A Pyrex pie plate will do, if you are careful; but 
something a little larger would be better.) Sift together into the baking dish, 
the cake flour, sugar, cocoa, soda, and salt. Make three holes in the dry 
ingredients. (One large hole, one middle-sized hole, and one little hole— 
just like the three bears.) Into the large hole pour the cooking oil or short- 
ening. Into the middle-sized hole, pour the vinegar. Into the small hole 
pour the vanilla. Then pour one cup cold water over the whole mess and mix 
well with a fork. Bake at 350 degrees 25 min. or until done (depending upon 
baking dish used). When cake is cool, frost with Cream Cheese Frosting. 


Cream Cheese Frosting: 


1 small pkg. cream cheese 14 cup whipping cream 
14, cup confectioner’s sugar 14 tsp. almond extract 


Cream the Philadelphia cream cheese, ad dthe sifted confectioner’s sugar, 
fold in the stiffly beaten whipping cream and add the flavoring. Spread light- 
ly over the yummy chocolate cake. 


64 CAKES 


WHITE FRUIT CAKE 


1 cup butter 

1 cup white sugar 

> eggs 

14 Ib. blanched almonds 
14 cup diced citron 

14 cup diced orange peel 
4 cup diced lemon peel 
14 cup candied cherries 


Cream butter and sugar; add well beaten eggs. 
Add egg mixture and pineapple juice. 
Bake 1 hr. at 325° F., a little 


with flour. 


has been greased and lined with waxed paper. 


longer if necessary. 


14, cup dates, cut up fine 

14 cup apricots, cut coarse 

14 cup seedless white raisins 
1 cup diced canned pineapple 
14 cup shredded coconut 

2 cups sifted flour 

114 teaspoons baking powder 
14 cup pineapple juice 


Bake in loaf pan which 


WEDDING CAKE 


Cut in small pieces: 

1 pound raisins 

34, pound figs 

34, pound citron 

3 ounces candied lemon peel 

14 pound candied cherries 
Soak the above overnight in 

24 cup brandy or grape juice 
Measure: 

14 tablespoon allspice 

14 tablespoon cinnamon 

14 tablespoon nutmeg 

14 tablespoon cloves 
and add 2 tablespoons raspberry ex- 
tract, | tablespoon brandy and 5 ta- 


stand overnight. Brown 2 cups flour 


in moderate oven. Next day 
cream: 

1 cup (14 pound) shortening, 
add slowly 


1 cup sugar and 
4 egg yolks beaten until thick. 
Add spices 
14 cup grape jelly 
14 square chocolate, melted, and 
4 egg whites beaten stiff. 
Sift and measure: 
2 cups browned flour and add 
enough to the fruit to keep pieces 
from sticking together. 


Mix fruit and nuts well 


blespoons water or fruit juice. Let . 


Add remaining flour to egg mixture, then add fruit and 124 cups walnut 
meats cut very fine. Mix well, turn into 2 round pans lined with paper and 
greased. Cover with greased paper and steam 2 hours. Dry off in 250° F. 
oven for | hour. 


Soft Royal Frosting 


Beat: 4 egg whites until stiff and beat in gradually 2 cups sifted confection- 
er’s sugar and | teaspoon vanilla. Work 8 tablespoons vegetable shortening 
or uncolored margarine, until creamy, and add gradually 1 cup confectioner’s 
sugar. Combine the shortening mixture with the egg white mixture, and add 
more sugar as needed. Put a thin layer or frosting between the cakes and 
decorate as desired. 


CAKES 65 


WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE 
1. Cream 3 cups sugar with 1 cup butter. Beat whites of 6 eggs, very light. 
Add 1% of egg whites to first mixture. ; 


2. Mix 4 cups sifted flour, 1 tbsp. baking powder; add to first mixture, a 
little at a time; add 1 tsp. lemon flavoring. Stir; fold in remaining egg 
whites. Bake in layer cake pans in oven 350° for 20 minutes. 


Lemon Cheese Filling: 


4 egg yolks 1 tbsp. grated lemon rind 
2 cups sugar juice of 2 lemons 
1 tbsp. butter 1 cup boiling water 


Mix all ingredients together, except flour. Make a smooth paste of flour 
and a little water; then add to first mixture. Stir well. Cook until thick. 
Cool and spread between layers. 


**Plain white icing may be used between layers, if desired. 
***This batter may be used for coconut cake or pineapple cake also. 


15 POUND DARK FRUITCAKE 


2 Ibs. raisins 1 tbsp. cinnamon 

1 Ib. pitted dates 1 tbsp. nutmeg 

14 Ib. candied lemon peel 14 tbsp. cloves 

14 lb. candied orange peel 1 tsp. soda 

14 lb. candied cherries 1 Ib. butter or margarine 

14 |b. candied pineapple 2 cups sugar 

1% |b. citron 1 dozen eggs, unbeaten 

2 qts. shelled pecans | 1 cup dark molasses 

2 cups shelled Brazil nuts 1 qt. preserved watermelon rind 
4 cups flour (with thick syrup) 

1 tbsp. ginger | 1 qt. fig preserves (with thick 
1 tbsp. allspice syrup) 


Line loaf or tube pans with heavy brown paper; grease thoroughly. Set 
oven at 275° F. Chop raisins, dates, candied fruits and nuts; place them in 
a very large pan. Sift flour with spices and soda, then dredge fruits and nuts 
with 3 cups of this mixture. Cream butter or margarine with sugar until light 
and fluffy. Add unbeaten eggs, two at a time, beating well after each addi- 
tion. Add remaining flour mixture; mix well. Add molasses, preserved 
watermelon rind and figs; stir until well blended. Turn this batter into pan 
with fruits and nuts. With hands, mix until all is well blended. Turn into 
prepared pans. Set shallow pans of water in oven under baking rack. Ar- 
range cakes in oven and bake at 275° F. for 41% hours. (Add more water to 
pans when necessary. If cakes begin to brown too fast on top, lay aluminum 
foil over them.) Take from oven, cool, then remove paper from cakes. When 
cold, wrap and store in a lightly covered container. 


66 CAKES 


5 POUND WHITE FRUITCAKE 


4 |b. citron 2 cups pecans 

4 ib. candied orange peel 1 cup butter or margarine 
14 |b. candied lemon peel 1 cup sugar 

14 lb. candied cherries 5 eggs 

14 Ib. pitted dates 2 cups flour 

4 lb. dried apricots 1 tsp. salt 

14 lb. white raisins 114 tsp. baking powder 
14 lb. moist shredded coconut 4 cup pineapple juice 


1144 cups pineapple chunks, drained 


Grease one very large ring mold or loaf pan. Chop fruits and nuts; dredge 
with 44 cup of the flour. Cream butter or margarine with sugar until light. 
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well. Sift remaining flour with salt and 
baking powder; add this alternately with pineapple juice. When well mixed, 
turn this batter into dredged fruits and nuts; mix well with hands. Turn into 
prepared pan, filling only two-thirds full. Decorate top of cake if desired. 
Cover top of pan tightly with two layers of waxed paper; tie securely with a 
string (cut the ends of string short). Place the rack in your pressure sauce- 
pan or cooker, set cake on rack, and pour in boiling water to almost the half- 
way mark of the cake pan. Adjust saucepan cover; bring water to boil and 
allow to steam for 15 min. Place gauge or indicator over vent; bring to 15 
pounds pressure and steam for 40 minutes. Reduce pressure to zero quickly. 
Remove cake from pressure saucepan and place in oven set at 325° F., allow- 
ing it to dry for 20 minutes. 


ICINGS 


ere 
——S SS 


BOILED ICING 


2 cups white sugar | 3 egg whites, stiffly beaten 
34, cup water 3 tbsp. white sugar 


Boil 2 cups white sugar with 34, cup water until it forms a soft ball when 
dropped from a spoon in cold water, or until it spins a thread 2 or 3 inches 
when a smill bit is dropped from spoon. 


While syrup is cooking, beat the egg whites very stiff and beat in 3 tbsp. 
of sugar very gradually as you would for meringue. Pour hot syrup over the 
egg mixture. Beat all together until thick enough to spread on cake. Flavor 
with vanilla, almond or lemon extract. Makes enough to ice a three-layer 
cake. : 


BUTTER CREAM FROSTING 


1% cup butter 14 cup cocoa 
VY; cup white corn syrup 1 to 2 tbsp. milk 
4 teaspoon salt 314 cups sifted sugar 


14 teapsoon vanilla 


Cream butter, add syrup, salt and vanilla; blend. Stir in cocoa. Add milk 
and sugar alternately, beating until smooth and creamy after each addition. 
Add enough milk to make a good spreading consistency. For a richer choco- 
late flavor use 1 cup cocoa, increase milk to 14 cup. 


CARAMEL ICING | 


2 Ibs. light brown suger ay 14 cup Pet milk 
1% stick butter 2 eggs 
4 cup water 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Cook sugar, water and milk together in heavy saucepan until it will form 
a soft ball when dropped from a spoon in cold water. 


Remove from heat and add the butter, beat together well and pour over 
beaten eggs. Add pinch of salt and vanilla. Beat until thick and creamy. 
Will fill and cover 2 large cake layers. 


67 


68 ICINGS 





CARAMEL ICING Il 


1 pkg. light brown sugar 1 stick margarine 
2 cups white sugar 1 cup milk 


Boil 2 minutes, hard. Beat until it is the consistency to use on cake. This 
icing will keep in tight jar in refrigerator for weeks. 


CHOCOLATE ICING 


2 squares chocolate 1 tablespoon flour 
1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons butter 
4 cup milk 14 teaspoon vanilla 


Melt chocolate over hot water; add the sugar and flour mixed together. 
When smooth, add the milk slowly. Cook all these ingredients until it will 
spin a thread when dropped from a spoon. Add the butter and vanilla. Cool 


and beat until thick enough to spread without running. If it gets too thick 
put over hot water until it softens. 


CREAM CHEESE ICING 


2 3-ounce pkgs. cream cheese 14 tsp. vanilla 


214 to 3 tbsps. milk 14 tsp. almond flavoring 
\, tsp. salt 


Blend cream cheese and milk with 6 cups of sugar, if too stiff add a little 
more milk to make it easy to spread. Add salt, vanilla and flavoring. 


“MISS ANNA’S” WHITE ICING 


3 cups sugar 1 tsp. cream of tartar 


1 cup water 3 egg whites, unbeaten 


Boil the sugar, water and cream of tartar until it spins a fine thread when 
dropped from a spoon. Remove from heat and pour over egg whites, un- 
beaten, until it thickens. If not stiff enough to spread put over hot water 


and continue beating until it begins to adhere to the pan. Flavor with any 
desired flavoring. 


ICINGS 69 


MOCHA ICING 


2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons strong coffee 
2 cups confectioner’s sugar 3/4, teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons cocoa 


Cream together well the butter and sugar; add cocoa and coffee and salt. 
Beat until smooth, if too dry add more coffee. If too moist add more sugar. 
Delicious with Jam Cake or Chocolate Cake. 


ORANGE FROSTING 


2 egg whites, unbeaten 2 tbsp. orange juice 
34, cup sugar 14 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1, cup white corn syrup 14 teaspoon salt 


Grated rind of 1 orange 


Mix all ingredients in top of double boiler with a spoon until they are mixed 
together thoroughly. Place over briskly boiling water. Beat with rotary 
beater or electric beater over the boiling water until the frosting stands in 
perfect peaks when beater is lifted from mix. Remove from boiling water 
and continue beating until slightly cool and spreadable. Frosting should 
hold definite shape at this point. Makes enough to spread between and on 
top and sides of 2 9-inch layers. 


t 


SEA FOAM FROSTING 


2 unbeaten egg whites 5 tablespoons water 
114 cups brown sugar, firmly packed 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Combine first 3 ingredients in top of double boiler. Beat with rotary beat- 
er until thoroughly mixed. Place over rapidly boiling water and beat con- 
stantly for 7 min. or until frosting stands in peaks. Remove from boiling 
water; add vanilla and beat until thick enough to spread. 


SEVEN MINUTE ICING 


2 egg whites, unbeaten 114 cups granulated sugar 
4, cup light corn syrup 


Put in double boiler and beat with hand beater or electric beater for 7 min. 
Remove from heat, beat in vanilla or other flavoring. 


70 | ICINGS 


SNOW PEAK FROSTING 


1% cups white corn syrup Pinch salt 
2 egg whites 1 tsp. vanilla extract 


Heat corn syrup till boiling. With electric mixer at high speed, or with 
egg beater, beat egg whites until they form soft peaks. Add salt.°. Slowly 
pour in syrup, continuing to beat until frosting is fluffy and forms peaks when 
beater is raised. Fold in vanilla. Fills and frosts 2 8-inch layers. 


SUPERB UNCOOKED CHOCOLATE ICING 


4 cup butter | Pinch of salt 

2 oz. chocolate | 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 egg 1 tsp. lemon juice 

114 cups sugar 1 cup chopped pecans 


Melt butter with chocolate over hot water; beat well. Add beaten egg, 
sugar, salt, vanilla and lemon juice. Beat until creamy, stir in nuts. The 
nuts may be sprinkled in between and on top of iced cake, if desired. 


COOKIES 


ALMOND COOKIES 


3 cups flour 14 |b. butter 
314 cups sugar 2 eggs 
V% Ib. almonds T tsp. nutmeg 


1 tbsp. vanilla 


Cream 2 cups sugar and butter; add beaten eggs, flour and then the sea- 
soning. Mix the remaining cup and a half of sugar and the half pound of 
finely chopped almonds. Mix a spoonful of the batter in the sugar and 
almond mixture for each cookie. Place in greased cookie sheet and bake 
in slow oven, 350° F., until brown. : 


ALMOND MACAROONS 


1 Ib. granulated sugar Rind of 1 lemon 
6 egg whites Cherries 
1 Ib. almonds, shelled and ground 

(do not blanch) 


Beat egg whites stiffly; add sugar gradually, then almonds and grated rind 
of lemon. Drop by teaspoons on greased cokkie sheet; garnish each with 
1% cherry. Bake for 25 min. in moderate oven, 350° F. Makes 6 dozen. 


APPLESAUCE COOKIES 


1 cup sugar 14 tsp. soda 

1 egg 1 tsp. baking powder 

214 cups sifted flour 7 1 cup thick unsweetened applesauce 
14 tsp. cinnamon 14 cup raisins 

4 tsp. cloves 14 cup shortening 

14 cup chopped nut meats 14 tsp. salt 


Cream shortening and sugar; add egg. Beat well. Sift together flour, 
spices, salt, soda, and baking powder. Add alternately with applesauce to 
creamed mixture. Add raisins and nuts. Drop from spoon to greased cookie 
sheet about 2 inches apart. Bake in moderate oven 400 degrees 15 to 20 
min. Makes 5 dozen. 


71 


2 COOKIES 


BELLE TEACAKES 
3 eggs 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 
1 cup sugar 3 cups flour 
1 cup butter or margarine, melted Pinch salt 


2 teaspoons baking powder 


Cream sugar and butter together; add well-beaten eggs, then vanilla, mix- 
ing well. Sift salt and baking powder with flour; add to first mixture. Roll 
out 14 inch thick, cut in fancy shapes. Bake in moderate oven until brown. 


BLACK WALNUT COOKIES 


6 eggs 14, teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon water 1 teaspoon soda 
2 pounds brown sugar 7 cups cake flour 


1 cup black walnuts, chopped 


Beat whole eggs with water till thick, add sugar gradually and beat thor- 
oughly. Add nuts, and the flour which has been sifted with the soda and 
salt. Make in small balls about the size of a hickory nut and bake on un- 
greased cookie sheets in moderate oven. Makes 15 dozen. 


BROWNIES 
1 stick butter 114 cups of nuts (broken 1 
2 eggs 7 1 cup sifted flour 
1 Ib. brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 


14 cake melted chocolate 


Cream butter and sugar; add eggs not beaten. Add other ingredients and 
beat well. Grease pan and sprinkle with a little flour. Bake 20 min. in slow 
oven. Turn off heat and let stay in oven 10 min. Take out and cut in 
squares and roll in powdered sugar. 


BUTTER STICKS 


24 cup butter 3 cups cake flour 
14 cup sugar 14 tsp. soda 
2 eggs, beaten | 14 tsp. salt . 


_ Vy tsp. almond extract 


Cream butter and sugar. Sift onic and salt with flour. Gomtine beaten 
eggs, almond extract, creamed butter and sugar and the sifted dry ingredients. 
Force through a pastry tube or cookie press into sticks or other shapes; or the 
daugh may be shaped in rolls about 3 in. long. They should be about 14 in. 
in diameter. Sprinkle with sugar and bake in 400 degree oven. Makes 
about 40 sticks 3 in. long. 


COOKIES 73 


BUTTERSCOTCH COOKIES 


2 cups brown sugar 3 or 4 cups flour (enough to make 
2 eggs 7 stiff dough) 

1 tsp. vanilla 1 cup butter 

1 cup nuts, chopped 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

1 tsp. soda 1 cup chopped dates 


Sift the flour with cream of tartar and soda; cream butter, sugar and eggs 
together thoroughly. Add the flour mixture and stir until the flour is well 
blended in. Add nuts and dates. Form into roll and wrap in wax paper. 
Let stay over-night in refrigerator. Cut in 44 in. slices. Bake in hot oven. 


BUTTERSCOTCH DROPS 


Cream 24 cup of fat (part butter) until soft. Add 2 cups dark brown sugar 
and mix until very soft. Then add 3 beaten eggs, 2 tsp. cinnamon, | tsp. 
cloves, 14 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. vanilla and 14 cup buttermilk. Beat well. Blend in 
41% cups flour, 1 tsp. soda and 1 tsp. baking powder. Chill the dough over- 
night (longer if convenient). Drop portions of dough onto greased baking 
sheets. Flatten each cookie and spread chopped dates and nutmeats over 
them. Bake 10 min. in moderate oven. 


BUTTERSCOTCH PECAN COOKIES 


1 cup butter or margarine 14 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup brown sugar, firmly packed 2 cups sifted flour 
4, cup milk 2 teaspoons baking powder 


Pecan halves 


Cream butter and brown sugar; add milk and vanilla and mix well. Add 
dry ingredients which have been sifted together. Chill in refrigerator for 
1 hr. Shape into balls and place on an ungreased cookie sheet. Press a 
pecan half into the center of each cookie and bake in 375 degree oven 6 to 8 
min. Makes 4 to 5 dozen cookies. 


CHOCOLATE COOKIES 


14 stick margarine 1 cup chopped nuts 
1 can Eagle brand condensed milk 2 pkgs. chocolate chips 
1 cup flour 


Add melted chocolate to creamed margarine. Blend in flour, milk and 
nuts. Bake in preheated oven 350 degrees for 12 minutes. 


EA whnalid tabled bales obe COOKIES 


CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIES 


8 sq. chocolate 1 cup sifted flour 

14 cup butter or shortening 1 tsp. salt 

14 cup granulated sugar 14 tsp. soda 

4, cup brown sugar, firmly packed 14 cup chopped nut meats 
1 egg, well beaten | 1 tsp. vanilla 


Cut chocolate in quarter-inch cubes. Cream butter. Add sugars grad- 
ually and cream together until light and fluffy. Add egg and mix thoroughly. 
Sift flour once; measure. Add salt and soda and sift again. Add cut choco- 
late, nuts, and vanilla and mix thoroughly. Drop from teaspoon on greased 
baking sheet, two inches apart. Bake in 375 degree oven 10 to 12 minutes. 
Makes about 50 cookies. 


CHOCOLATE PECAN DROPS 


14 cup softened shortening 14 tsp. soda 
1 cup brown sugar 14 tsp. salt 
1 egg 34, cup milk 


2 sq. unsweetened chocolate, melted 14 cup chopped pecans | 
2'4 cups sifted flour 


Mix together thoroughly the shortening, sugar and egg; blend in the melted 
chocolate. Sift together the flour, soda and salt and stir into shortening- 
sugar mixture alternately with the milk. Stir in with last addition of flour, 
the chopped pecans. Chill dough. Drop by teaspoonfuls about 2 in. apart 
onto greased baking sheet. Bake 10 to 12 min. in 400 degree oven. Makes 
3 to 4 dozen. 


CHOCOLATE REFRIGERATOR COOKIES 


134, cups sifted flour 1 tbsp. heavy cream 

16 tsp. salt 1% tsp. vanilla Ree Sa 

34, tsp. baking powder 14 cup finely chopped pecans 

1 cup butter or margarine 3 oz. semi-sweet chocolate, grated 


1 cup sugar 


Sift dry ingredients together. Cream butter and sugar. Add cream and 
vanilla and mix well. Add sifted dry ingredients gradually, then add choco- 
late and nuts. Form into small rolls, 1 in. in diameter and chill in the re- 
frigerator several hours or over-night. Slice thin and place on ungreased 
Soars sheet. Bake in 375 degree oven for 8 to 10 min. Makes 5 dozen 
cookies. 


COOKIES 12 


COCONUT MACAROONS 


114 cups grated coconut | 1 egg white 
14 cup sifted confectioner’s sugar Dash of salt 


Combine coconut and sugar; mix well. Beat egg white with salt until stiff, 
but not dry. Add to coconut mixture and blend well. Drop from teaspoon 
onto a greased baking sheet and bake at 350° F. 15 min. or until brown. 
Makes one dozen. 


COCONUT ROLLS 


24, cup butter 316 cups cake flour 

14 cup dark brown sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs 14 tsp. soda 

14 cup baking molasses 34, tsp. ginger 

14 cup milk 14 tsp. cloves 

1 tsp. vanilla 1 tsp. cinnamon 

V6 tsp. salt 4 cups finely cut coconut 


Cream butter and sugar. Beat eggs and add to them the molasses, milk 
and vanilla. Sift together the dry ingredients. Add the sifted dry ingredients 
alternately with the wet ingredients to the creamed butter and sugar. Blend 
thoroughly. Add the coconut. Chill. Roll in finger-length rolls and bake 
in 350° F. oven. 

If desired, the cookies may be dropped without chilling, or instead of form- 
ing into rolls, may be rolled out and cut. Makes about 36 cookies 2 by 3 
inches. 


COCONUT SLICES 


Cream 24 cup butter, add 114 cups sugar and beat until creamy. Mix in 
] teaspoon vanilla, 14 teaspoon each of lemon and almond extracts, 14 tea- 
spoon salt, 14 cup sweet cream, 3 eggs, 24 cup toasted cocoanut, 414 cups 
flour, | teaspoon soda. Press into a buttered loaf pan and chill 24 hours— 
or longer. Cut off thin slices, top with halved candied cherries and bake 10 
min. in moderate oven. 


CRESCENT COOKIES 


4 Ib. butter 1 cup finely chopped nuts 
2 tbsp. powdered sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 
1 cup flour 14 tsp. cinnamon 


Cream butter and sugar; work in flour and flavorings, finally add nuts. 
Shape with the hands in small crescents. Bake in oven 350 degrees about 


15 minutes. 


76. itd | COOKIES 


CRANBERRY SQUARES 
1% cups sifted enriched flour 4 cup finely chopped nutmeats 
14 teaspoon salt 34, cup butter or margarine 
14 cup brown sugar 1 tablespoon cold water 


2 cups rolled oats 


Combine flour, salt, brown sugar, oats and nutmeats. Cut in butter until 
mixture is crumbly. Blend in cold water. Pack half of mixture into greased 
8-inch square pan. 


Filling: 


116 cups or one No. 303 can 14 cup cornstarch 
whole cranberry sauce 4 cup granulated sugar 
1, cup flaked or shredded coconut 


Combine all ingredients in a saucepan. Heat over medium heat until 
mixture boils, stirring constantly. Spread. filling over crust; sprinkle other 
half of crumb mixture over top. Bake in 350 degree oven about 30 min. 
Chill before cutting and serving. 


CRISP ALMOND TREATS | 
14 cup butter or margarine 114 cups sifted all-purpose flour 
1 cup confectioner’s sugar Whole or split blanched almonds 
1 egg yolk Honey 


4, tsp. almond extract 


Cream butter or margarine and sugar; beat in egg yolk thoroughly. Mix 
in almond extract and flour. Press through cookie press. Lightly spread an 
almond (whole or split, depending on size of cookies) with honey and place 
in the center of each cookie. Bake on ungreased cookie sheet in hot oven 
400 degrees, 8 to 10 minutes. 


CRULLERS 


Cream 14 cup butter and add 1 cup sifted sugar gradually. Add 2 well 
beaten eggs. Mix and sift 1 cup flour with 314 teaspoons baking powder, 14, 
teaspoon grated nutmeg and a few grains salt. Add alternately with 1 cup 
milk to the first mixture. Add aditional sifted flour to make a dough that 
can be handled. Turn out on lightly floured board, roll about 14 inch thick 
and cut into strips. Twist and fry in hot, deep fat. Drain on unglazed paper 
and when cold put in a paper bag with a little powdered sugar and shake well. 


COOKIES 77 


CRUNCHY SUGAR COOKIE 


1 cup sugar | 1 tsp. vanilla 

14 cup butter 16 tsp. soda 

1 egg 4 tsp. cream of tartar 
2 tbsp. cold water 14 tsp. salt 


214 cups flour 


Cream butter and sugar; add beaten egg, water and vanilla. Sift flour, 
soda, cream of tartar and salt together. Mix everything well and roll out 
very thin. Sprinkle with sugar and cut out. Bake at 400 degrees for 5 to 8 
minutes. 


DANISH COOKIES 


134, sticks butter 1 tsp. water 
4 tbsp. confectioner’s sugar 2 tsp. vanilla 
2 cups flour 1 cup chopped nuts 


Mix well and shape with hands, break in small pieces and roll. Bake in 
moderate oven 350 degrees about 15 minutes. 


DATE BARS 
1 pkg. dates 1 cup chopped nuts 
1 cup flour 2 tbsp. melted butter or mar- 
1 cup sugar garine 
2 eggs 2 tbsp. hot water 


Melt butter in hot water. Cream with the sugar and eggs. Add flour, beat 
briskly; add nuts and chopped dates. Stir well and bake in greased pan at 
350 degrees about 25 minutes. Cut in strips and roll in powdered sugar. 


DATES IN CHEESE PASTRY 


14 cup butter or margarine 1 pkg. pitted dates 

13-ounce pkg. cream cheese 14 cup sugar 

1 cup flour 14 cup English walnuts or pecans 
1 egg white chopped fine 


Cream butter and cheese, add flour and knead until mixture is like pie- 
crust dough. Wrap in waxed paper and chill thoroughly in refrigerator. Roll 
out very thin on a lightly floured board and cut into squares large enough to 
wrap around each date. Dip pastry covered dates in unbeaten egg whites 
—and roll in mixture of chopped nuts and sugar. Bake on an ungreased baking 
sheet in moderate oven 15 to 20 minutes. Makes about 15. 


78 COOKIES 


DATE SWIRLS 


For the filling you need 1% Ib. pitted dates cut fine, 14 cup sugar, 14 cup 
water. Cook these for 5 min., stirring constantly. Remove from heat and 
add 14, cup chopped nuts. Cool this mixture. 

While the filling is cooling, mix the cookie batter. Use 14 cup butter or 
margarine, 14 cup brown sugar, 14 cup white sugar, 1 beaten egg, 14 tsp. 
vanilla, 2 cups flour, 14 tsp. salt, and 14 tsp. soda. | 

Cream the butter with the sugar; add the egg and vanilla. Sift flour, salt 
and soda together and add. Blend all well. 

Toss the dough on a lightly floured board and roll in an oblong shape to 
about 14, inch thickness. Spread the date filling and roll up like a jelly roll. 
Wrap in waxed paper and put in refrigerator to chill for 24 hours. Slice 
cookies about 14 inch and bake on buttered cookie sheet for about 12 min. 


DEE-LISH-US MOLASSES COOKIES 


1 cup black molasses 2 eggs, well beaten 
34, cup brown sugar 14 teaspoon salt 
14 cup butter or margarine 14 teaspoon ground cinnamon | 
14 cup bacon drippings 14 teaspoon ground ginger 
214 cups plain flour 14 teaspoon ground cloves 
1 cup buckwheat pancake flour 1 cup seeded raisins 
or wholewheat flour 1 cup chopped nuts 


Cream molasses, sugar and shortening well; add spices and the well beaten 
eggs. Add the flour. When thoroughly blended, add 1 level tsp. of soda 
dissolved in 2 tbsp. hot water. Stir in nuts and raisins which have been 
dredged in flour. Drop by teaspoonfuls 2 in. apart on cookie sheet. Bake at 
350 degrees about 12 min. Makes about 6 dozen cookies. 


FIG SLICES 
3/4, cup butter 3 tsp. baking powder 
114 cups brown sugar 1 tsp. salt 
1 egg 1 tsp. cinnamon 
4 cup milk 1 cup ground figs 
23/4, cups cake flour 1 cup chopped nuts 


Sift the sugar and measure. Beat the egg and add the milk. Sift the dry 
ingredients together. Cream butter and sugar and add the dry and wet in- 
gredients alternately. Add the figs and nuts and form into two rolls. Wrap 


in wax paper and chill in refrigerator until firm. Slice about 1 inch thick 
and bake in 375 degree oven. 


COOKIES 79 


FOUNDATION FILLED COOKIES 


14 cup shortening 14 cup sweet milk 

1 cup sugar 314 cups cake flour 

1 egg, beaten 3 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon vanilla 14 teaspoon salt 


Cream shortening, add sugar and cream well together. Add vanilla and 
beaten egg and beat. Sift dry ingredients together and add alternately with 
the milk to the fat mixture, beating till well blended. Chill at least 15 min- 
utes before rolling out so the soft dough will be more easily handled. Roll 
about 1% inch thick on a floured, cloth covered board and cut with round 
cookie cutter about two inches in diameter. Put a teaspoon of any favorite 
filling in center of one cookie and cover with another. Press edges together. 
Bake in 375 degree oven. Makes about 3 dozen cookies. 


Date Filling: 


2 cups dates 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
2, cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 
24, cup boiling water ) 14 teaspoon salt 


Cook dates, sugar and water together until thick. Add the lemon juice, 
butter and salt. Other dried fruits such as raisins or figs may be used in 
this recipe. 

: Prune Filling: 
1 cup chopped dried prunes 14 cup sugar 


14 cup orange juice : 14 cup chopped nuts 
1 tablespoon flour Tf teaspoon salt 


Mix and cook, stirring constantly until thick. 
Raisin Filling: 
2, cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 


24 cup hot water 1% teaspoon salt 
2 cups raisins : 


Mix ingredients and cook until thick, stirring constantly. 


FOUNDATION REFRIGERATOR COOKIES 


1 cup butter 316 cups cake flour 
2 cups brown sugar 14 teaspoon salt 
2 eggs, beaten 2 teaspoons baking powder 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten eggs and vanilla alternately with the 
sifted dry ingredients. Form in long rolls about two inches in diameter and 
place in the refrigerator to chill for at least an hour or until firm. Slice 
cookies about 14 inch thick and bake in 375 degree oven. Makes about 8 
dozen cookies 114 to 2 inches in size. 


80 COOKIES 


FOUNDATION SUGAR COOKIES 


1 cup butter 2 teaspoons vanilla 

2 cups white sugar 514 cups cake flour 

3 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon salt 

6 tablespoons milk 3 teaspoons baking powder 


Cream butter, add sugar gradually and cream. Add milk and vanilla to 
beaten eggs. Sift flour, salt and baking powder together. Add dry ingre- 
dients alternately with liquid ingredients to the creamed butter and sugar. 
Chill. Flour cloth covered breadboard lightly. Roll out a portion of the 
dough (keep the rest in the refrigerator) about 14 inch thick. Cut, sprinkle 
with sugar and bake in moderately hot (375°-400° F.) oven. Keep all scraps 
after cutting for the final rolling so that the dough does not become over- 
worked and thus toughen the cookies. Makes 4 dozen cookies 2 inches in 
diameter. 


FRENCH MERINGUE 


2 cups sugar 6 egg whites 
1 cup water 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Boil sugar and water to a heavy thread stage. Beat egg whites very stiff 
and add the syrup, beating continuously. Add flavoring and beat till cold. 
Shape with a spoon or pastry bag on letter paper or on a cookie sheet which 
has geen greased and dredged with cornstarch. Let stand until dry and bake 
in a very slow oven (25°-275° F.) 


If one wishes to remove the center and fill with ice cream or whipped cream, 
bake on a wet board covered with letter paper, remove the center and return 
to dry out. 

Chopped nuts may be added to the meringue mixture or the meringues may 
be sprinkled with the chopped nuts for a variation. 


FUDGE SQUARES 


1 cup sugar 1 cup broken nutmeats 

14 cup butter or margarine 2 eggs 

1 square chocolate 1 teapsoon vanilla extract 
1 cup flour 4 teaspoon salt 


Melt butter or margarine and chocolate in double boiler. Add sugar, mix 
well; add well-beaten eggs, then salt and flour sifted together, then nutmeats. 
Pour into a greased, floured pan and bake 30 to 40 minutes in oven at 350 
degrees. 


COOKIES 8] 


FRUIT NUT STICKS 


Beat 3 egg yolks with a cupful of light brown sugar. Mix in lightly, 1 cup 
flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 14 cup chopped dates, 14 cup chopped can- 
died pineapple, 1 cup nuts, 14, teaspoon salt and 3 egg whites, beaten. Pour 
into a greased shallow pan. Bake 2 minutes in a moderately slow oven. Cut 
in sticks while warm and sprinkle with confectioner’s sugar. 


JAM SURPRISES 


14 cup shortening 14 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg, beaten 1 teaspoon grated lemon or orange 
4 cup milk rind 

3 cups cake flour 1 cup jam 


Cream shortening. Add sugar gradually, creaming thoroughly. Add milk 
and grated rind to beaten egg. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add 
alternately with the milk and egg to the creamed butter and sugar. Chill. 
Roll about Yg inch thick and cut in two-inch squares. In the center of half 
of the squares place a teaspoon of strawberry or other thick jam. Cover with 
the other square and press the edges together. Bake in moderate oven (375 
degrees) about 15 min. Makes about 31% dozen cookies. 


MARGUERITES 
134, cups sugar 1 cup nuts, chopped 
14 cup water 1 tablespoon butter 
2 egg whites, beaten lf teaspoon salt 
1 teapsoon yanilla Soda crackers or other salty wafers 


Boil the sugar and water to the soft ball stage, then pour over the beaten 
egg whites and beat until stiff. Add vanilla, nuts, salt and butter. Drop by 
spoonfuls on the crackers and bake in a moderate oven until light brown. 


MOLASSES BROWNIES 


114 cups sweetened condensed milk 2 cups graham cracker crumbs 
Dash of salt 1 cup chopped nut meats 
14 cup molasses 14 teaspoon vanilla 


Mix sweetened condensed milk, salt, molasses, graham cracker crumbs, 
nut meats and vanilla. Blend thoroughly. Spread mixture in 8 x 12 inch pan 
greased and lined with waxed paper. Garnish as desired. Bake in 350 degree 
oven 15 minutes or until set. Turn from pan and remove paper at once. 
Cool, cut into squares. Makes about 24 brownies. 


89... COOKIES 


MINCEMEAT GOODIES 
1 cup butter | 14 teaspoon ginger 
_ 2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon cloves 
_ 3 eggs, well beaten 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 cup mincemeat 14 teaspoon salt 
About 3 cups cake flour 14 cup nuts, chopped 


1 teapsoon soda 


Cream butter and sugar together until light. Add the well beaten eggs and 
enough flour to prevent the mixture from curdling. Add the mincemeat, the 
dry ingredients which have been sifted together, and the nuts. The amount 
of flour needed varies with the amount of liquid in the mincemeat. The 
cookie mixture should be almost stiff enough to roll. Drop at least two inches 
apart to let them spread. Bake in 375 degree oven. Makes about 4 dozen 
cookies. 


OATMEAL COOKIES 


Cream 1 cup shortening with 14 cup sugar—use part or all brown sugar, 
if you like. Add 1 well-beaten egg and cream until fluffy. Sift 1 cup flour 
with 14, teaspoon baking soda and 14 teaspoon baking powder 14 teaspoon 
salt, 144 teaspoon cinnamon, 14 teaspoon nutmeg and a pinch of cloves. Mix 
with 1 cup quick-cooking oatmeal. . Add alternately to creamed mixture with 
6 tablespoons milk. Stir in 4g cup raisins. Drop by spoonfuls on greased 
cookie sheet and bake in moderate hot oven 375 degrees, 10-12 min. 


OATMEAL WAFERS 


24 cup fat 3 | 1 teaspoon vanilla 

114 cups brown sugar 1, cup sour cream 

2, cup chopped raisins - 2 eggs or 4 yolks 

14 cup cocoanut 1 cup rolled oats (uncooked) 
2 teaspoons cinnamon 3 cups flour 

1 teaspoon cloves 1 teaspoon soda 

4 teaspoon salt 14 teaspoon baking powder 


Cream fat and sugar. Add rest of the ingredients, mixing lightly. Drop 
portions of dough from tip of spoon onto greased baking sheets. (Space two 


inches apart). Flatten tops of cookies and let bake for 10 minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. | | 


COOKIES 83 


OATMEAL CRISPS 
2 cups quick oatmeal 1 well-beaten egg 
4 cup butter 14 teaspoon soda 
1 cup brown sugar 4 teaspoon salt 
14 cup Crisco 1 cup chopped nuts 


Melt fat and sugar slowly; stir in other ingredients. Drop far apart on 
cookie sheet. Bake at 375 degrees for 7 minutes. Makes 4 dozen. 


OLD FASHIONED TEACAKES 


1 cup butter 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon cream 
3 cups flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 teaspoons baking powder Pinch of salt 


1 teaspoon mace 


Cream butter and sugar until creamy; add flour which has been sifted with 
baking powder and salt and mace. Add eggs which have been beaten with the 
cream; add vanilla. Roll out on floured board ¥@ inch thick. Cut out— 
sprinkle with sugar. Bake in quick oven about 12 minutes. Do not allow to 
brown. Place pan of water beneath cakes to prevent browning too fast. 


OLD FASHIONED SUGAR COOKIES 


1 cup shortening 5 cups cake flour 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup sour cream 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 eggs, beaten 14 teaspoon salt 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


Cream shortening and sugar. Add eggs and vanilla to sour cream. Sift 
together the flour, baking powder, salt and soda and add alternately with the 
liquid to the shortening and sugar mixture. Chill. Roll on cloth covered 
board about 14 inch thick. Sprinkle with sugar and press in lightly with the 
rolling pin. Cut with large cutter and bake in a moderately hot oven (375° F.) 


PEANUT COOKIES 


14 cup fat 1 teaspoon vanilla 

24 cup peanut butter 14 teaspoon salt 

1 cup dark brown sugar 4 cups flour 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
2 eggs 1 teaspoon soda 


4 cup cream 


Cream together the fat and peanut butter. Mix in the sugars; add the 
eggs, cream, vanilla, salt, flour, baking powder and soda. Drop portions of 
the dough onto greased baking sheets. Sprinkle the cookies with chopped 
roasted peanuts and bake 10 minutes in a moderate oven. 


84 COOKIES 


PECAN BARS 
24, cup sifted flour 34, cup firmly-packed brown sugar 
1 teaspoon baking powder 1 egg 
1% teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 
4 cup butter 14, cup chopped pecans 


Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt. Cream butter and brown 
sugar; beat in egg thoroughly with vanilla. Stir in sifted dry ingredients and 
pecans. Spread evenly in buttered baking pan (6 x 9 inches). Bake in 350 
degree oven 25 to 30 minutes. Do not overbake. Place pan on wire rack to 
cool; when still warm cut into bars and remove with spatula. When entirely 
cooled, store in tightly covered container. 


PECAN STICKS 


4 cup butter 1 cup cake flour 

1 cup brown sugar 14 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon vanilla 14 cup pecans, chopped 


Blend sugar, butter and egg and beat well. Add vanilla and the dry in- 
gredients which have been sifted together. Mix well and add the pecans. 
Spread in an 8 x 8 inch pan which has been buttered and lined on the bottom 
with waxed paper. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees) until firm and 
light brown and the cookies have pulled away slightly from the sides of the 
pan. Let cool for 5 min. and cut into bars. : 


PINWHEELS 
14 cup butter 114 cups cake flour 
14 cup sugar 14 teaspoon salt 
1 egg yolk 14 teaspoon baking powder 
3 tablespoons milk | 1 cup ground nuts 
14 teaspoon vanilla 1 ounce chocolate, melted 


Cream butter and sugar together. Add egg yolk and beat. Add vanilla 
and milk. Sift flour, salt and baking powder together and add with the nuts. 
Divide dough and to one part add the melted chocolate. Chill at least an 
hour. Roll out both parts quickly and lightly about 1 of an inch thick and 
place the chocolate dough on top of the white. Press together with a rolling 
pin. Roll up as for jelly roll, wrap in oiled paper and place in refrigerator for 
at least an hour or until very firm. Slice the cookies about 14 of an inch 
thick with a thin, sharp knife. Bake in a moderately hot oven (375° F.) 


COOKIES 85 


PLANTATION FRUIT BARS 


4 cup shortening 14 teaspoon soda 
14 cup sugar 114 teaspoons baking powder 
1 egg 14 cup milk 
-14 cup molasses 1 cup chopped nuts 
2 cups sifted flour 1 cup cut-up raisins or dates 


4 teaspoon salt 


Thoroughly cream the shortening and sugar; beat in egg and molasses. Sift 
together the flour, salt, soda and baking powder. Stir into creamed mixture 
alternately with the milk. Stir in nuts and raisins or dates. Spread in a 
greased shallow baking pan. Bake 25 to 30 minutes in a 350 degree oven. 
When cool, ice, if desired; cut into bars 1” x 2”. Makes 46 bars. 


PRALINE COOKIES 


2, cup butter or margarine 14 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup light brown sugar 14, teaspoon baking soda 

14 cup syrup or Brer Rabbit molasses '4 teaspoon mace 

2 eggs 14 teaspoon salt 

134, cups flour 114 to 2 cups broken nutmeats 


Slowly melt butter or margarine; cool. Add sugar and molasses; mix well. 
Add eggs and vanilla, beat well. Sift flour, soda, mace and salt; add to first 
mixture, beat well. Finally add nuts. Mix thoroughly. Drop by teaspoon- 
fuls on greased and floured baking sheets, (2 inches apart). Bake in 375 
degree oven 8 to 10 minutes. Remove from pan immediately. Makes about 
8 dozen. 


PRUNE-FILLED SQUARES 
For the prune filling: 


134, cups cooked prunes, well- = 2 table spoons lemon juice 
drained | 1 teaspoon orange rind, grated 
3 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons liquid from prunes 


Dash of salt 


For the crumb layer: 


114 cups enriched flour 1 cup rolled oats, quick-cooking 
14 teaspoon cinnamon 14 cup shortening 
14 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons milk 


34, cup brown sugar 


First make filling: Pit prunes, cut in small pieces, measure (should now be 
reduced to 114 cups); combine with sugar, salt, lemon juice, orange rind and 
liquid from prunes in 1-quart saucepan. Cook over low heat, stirring occa- 


86 COOKIES 


sionally, till thickened, about 8 minutes. Cool to room temperature. Now 
start your oven, thoroughly grease 8-inch square pan. 


For crumb layer: Sift flour, measure; add cinnamon, salt; sift into large 
bowl. Stir in brown sugar and rolled oats. Using blending fork or 2 knives, 
cut in shortening until mixture resembles coarse meal. Spread half of crumb 
mixture over bottom of baking pan; press down firmly with large spoon. 
Cover with the prune filling, spreading it evenly to edges and into corners. 
Sprinkle remaining crumb mixture over filling. Press down crumbs to make 
smooth top. Dip spatula in the milk and spread lightly over top of crumb 
layer. Bake on the middle shelf of hot oven until top is browned. Cool in 
pan on cake rack; cut in 25 squares. Store in tightly covered container or 
wrap in waxed paper. They will keep very well. 


RANCH COOKIES 


14 cup brown sugar 14 cup cream 

14 cup black molasses 2 teaspoons vanilla 

4 eggs 34, teaspoon salt 

3 cups rolled oats 1 cup chopped raisins . 
3 cups flour 2 teaspoons soda 

14 cup shortening 1 cup chopped pecans 
14 cup butter 2 tablespoons vinegar 


Mix as cake, adding flour until very stiff. Drop on greased pan from spoon. 
Bake in moderate oven. If they run add more flour. 


ROCKS 
14 cup butter 114 Ibs. chopped pecans 
3 eggs 14 Ibs. English walnuts, chopped 
3 cups flour 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
114 cups sugar 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon allspice 


2 tablespoons hot water 
1 Ib. chopped dates 


Cream butter and sugar; dissolve soda in hot water. Add the beaten eggs, 
spices, chopped dates and nuts to the creamed mixture, then add the flour. 
(The nuts should be chopped in several pieces). Work the dough very thor- 
oughly with the hands and drop by teaspoonfuls on a greased cookie sheet. 
Bake in oven 350° F. for 12 to 15 minutes. If stored in a closed container 
will keep for some time. | 


COOKIES 87 





ROSETTES 
Salad oil or shortening 1 cup sifted all-purpose flour 
2 eggs, unbeaten 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
1 tablespoon sugar Confectioner’s sugar or whipped 
lf teaspoon salt cream and sliced, fresh straw- 
1 cup milk berries 


1. The same day, or several days ahead, if desired: In deep saucepan or 
automatic deep-fat fryer, put enough salad oil or fat to come 2” to 3” u 
side of pan; heat to 365° F. on deep-fat frying thermometer. 


2. Meanwhile, in medium bowl, with fork, slightly beat eggs with 1 table- 
spoon sugar and salt. Add milk, flour, and vanilla; with egg beater, beat 
just until smooth. 


3. In hot oil, heat rosette iron* for 3 min. Then, at once, dip it into batter 
only to within 14,” of top of iron, and hold it there a few seconds; lift out 
of batter; then dip again. (Be sure not to dip entire iron into batter or 
rosette will be difficult to remove when done.) 


4. Immediately lower iron into hot oil, immersing it STOW Fry about 
1 min., or until delicate brown. 


5. Then lift iron out of oil; with four-tined fork, carefully loosen rosette; 
remove; drain on paper toweling. 


6. Immediately dip iron in batter again, and fry as above. Repeat until all 
batter is used. 


7. Rosettes may be stored in tightly covered containers. Just before serv- 
ing, sprinkle with confectioner’s sugar. Serve as cookies, or top with 
sweetened whipped cream and strawberries, for dessert. Makes about 
21% dozen. 


* Rosette irons can be SHRIRCEES from any good housewares department 


store. 
RUM BALLS 
3 cups vanilla wafers, crushed 2 tablespoons cocoa 
1 cup chopped pecans 314 tablespoons Karo syrup 
34, cup chopped dates 8 tablespoons rum 


Put vanilla wafers through meat grinder. Add the cocoa, then other in- 
gredients. Make into small balls, let stand 15 minutes. Roll in powdered 
sugar; put on cookie sheets and let stand several hours. Store in tin contain- 
ers until ready to use. Will keep well for some time. 


88 COOKIES 


SAND TARTS 
1 Ib. butter 3 eggs 
2 ibs. brown sugar 2 Ibs. flour 


Cream butter and sugar; then add eggs and mix thoroughly. Add flour 
gradually. Roll the dough very thin. Brush tops with whites of egg which 
has been beaten and a little water added. Sprinkle with granulated sugar or 
colored sugars and a dust of cinnamon. Press a half nut in center of each. 
Bake in slow oven, about 350° F. Makes about 300 cookies. 


SCANDINAVIAN COCONUT COOKIES 


2 eggs, slightly beaten 4 cup sifted all-purpose flour 
1 cup granulated sugar 14 teaspoon almond extract 
2 cups flaked coconut 


1. The same day: Start heating oven to 300° F. Grease and flour several 
cookie sheets. 


2. To eggs in medium bowl, add sugar all at once; with egg beater, beat un- 
til smooth. Then with wooden spoon, stir in coconut, flour and almond 
extract; mix until well blended. 


3. Onto cookie sheets, drop rounded teaspoonfuls of dough, about 2” apart. 
Bake 12 to 15 min., or until edges are golden brown. Immediately remove 
from cookie sheets. Cool on wire rack. 


4. These cookies don’t store too well, so it is best to make and enjoy them 
the same day. Makes about 3 dozen. 


SPRITZ COOKIES 


(Holland) 
1 cup butter 4 teaspoon salt 
34, cup sugar 14 teaspoon baking powder 
1 egg or 3 yolks, beaten 1 teaspoon almond extract 


214 cups cake flour 


Work butter until soft and cream with the sugar until light. Add beaten 
egg and almond flavoring and beat smooth. Add the flour sifted with the 
salt and baking powder. The dough may be rolled and cut with fancy cutters 
or molded in a cookie press. Fill the press and force onto ungreased cookie 
sheet. Bake ina hot oven until delicately browned. 


COOKIES 89 


STIR-N-DROP COOKIES 


2 eggs 34, Cup sugar 

2, cup Wesson oil 2 cups sifted all-purpose flour 
2 teaspoons vanilla 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 14 teaspoon salt 


Heat oven to 400° F. Beat eggs with fork. Stir in Wesson oil, vanilla, 
lemon rind. Blend in sugar. Sift together flour, baking powder, salt; add to 
egg mixture. Drop by teaspoonfuls about 2 inches apart on ungreased cookie 
sheet. Stamp each cookie flat with bottom of glass dipped in sugar (lightly 
oil glass, then dip in sugar . . . continue dipping in sugar). Decorate with 
nuts or chocolate bits. Bake 8 to 10 minutes. Remove immediately from 
sheet. Makes 36 cookies. : 


SUGAR CRISPS 
14 cup shortening 214 cups flour 
34, Cup sugar | 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 egg, beaten 2 teaspoons cinnamon 
2, cup molasses 14 teaspoon soda 
14 teaspoon vanilla 14 teaspoon salt 


Cream shortening with sugar. Add beaten egg, molasses and vanilla. Sift 
dry ingredients together and add. Chill. Roll Y¥g inch thick and bake in a 
moderate oven. These cookies are especially good when made with sorghum 
molasses. The tops may be moistened with water and sprinkled with sugar 
before baking. Makes about 4 dozen cookies 2 inches in diometer. 


SWEDISH GINGERSNAPS 


14 cup maple syrup 1 teaspoon ground cloves © 

14 cup butter or margarine 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 

1, cup brown sugar 1 tablespoon dark rum 

1 teaspoon ground ginger 1 teaspoon baking soda 

1 teaspoon cinnamon ~ 214 cups sifted all-purpose flour 


1. The day before, or several weeks ahead, if desired: In saucepan combine 
maple syrup, butter and brown sugar; boil until butter and sugar are 
melted. Stir in ginger, cinnamon, cloves, lemon rind, rum and baking 
soda. Remove from heat; in large bowl, cool until lukewarm. 


2. When mitxure is lukewarm, gradually stir in flour. Wrap dough in wax- 
ed paper; refrigerate until easy to handle. Then start heating oven to 
SOUmr. 

3. Remove small portion of dough from refrigerator; on a lightly floured sur- 

- face; roll it out paper thin. Cut into desired shapes; place on Shae 
cookie sheets. Bake 5 to 8 minutes, or until done. 


4, These may be stored for several weeks in a tightly covered container. 
Makes about 8 dozen cookies. 


90 COOKIES 


SUGAR SQUARES 


14 cup butter 14, teaspoon grated lemon rind 
1 cup granulated sugar 14 teaspoon grated orange rind 
3 eggs 14 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 3 cups flour 

14 cup shredded almonds 2 teaspoons baking powder 


Cream butter and sugar; add eggs, lemon juice, shredded almonds, grated 
rind of lemon and orange, salt, flour and baking powder. Roll dough very 
thin. Cut into 14 inch squares and carefully transfer to greased baking 
sheets. Sprinkle with granulated sugar mixed with a little cinnamon and 
placed in a shaker. Bake 7 min. 


WALNUT BROWNIES 


1 ounce chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 cup butter 1 cup cake flour 

1 cup sugar 1% teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 4 teaspoon cinnamon 

4 cup milk 1 cup walnuts, chopped fine 


Melt chocolate and pour over butter and mix till soft. Beat eggs till thick 
and lemon colored. Add sugar a little at a time to the eggs and beat well 
with each addition. Combine egg and sugar mixture with the chocolate and 
butter mixture and add the vanilla, milk, and then the flour, which has been 
sifted with the cinnamon and salt. Add the chopped walnuts. Pour into a 
square pan, which has been buttered and lined on the bottom with waxed 
paper. Bake ina 350 degree oven. Cool slightly, cut in squares and remove 
to a cooling rack. 


WALNUT MOLASSES STRIPS 


14 cup shortening | 1 teaspoon soda 

14 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon ginger 

14 cup baking molasses 4 teaspoon nutmeg 

4 cup boiling water lf teaspoon cloves 

3 cups flour 14 cup chopped walnuts 


1 teaspoon salt 


Cream shortening with sugar. Add the boiling water to the molasses and 
add alternately with the sifted dry ingredients to the creamed mixture. 
Chill and roll. Cut into strips. Sprinkle with finely chopped walnuts and 
bake in a moderate oven (350° F.) 


PASTRIES 


——— 


BALLOONS 
1 cup water 1 cup flour 
1% tsp. salt 3 eggs 


1 tsp. lard 


Let water and lard come to a boil, then put in the flour, let cook about one 
minute. Take off the fire and add one egg at the time, beating well and 
when the eggs are all added have a saucepan about half-full of fat and al- 
most smoking hot. Drop a heaping teaspoonful of the mixture in the sauce- 
pan. It will cook done in two or three minutes. Never try to cook more than 
two at a time. 


Very attractive to serve salads, fruits or cream chicken in. Simply pinch 
in one side to make room for the filling. 


CHEESE BISCUIT 


Y, tb. butter — | % Ib. plain flour 
4 Ib. grated cheese 14 tsp. cayenne pepper 


Mix cheese, butter, pepper and flour. Roll 14 in. thick and bake in oven 
375°. Shake in powdered sugar. Will keep indefinitely! 


CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS 


1% cup boiling water | 14 cup sifted all-purpose flour 
, cup butter or margarine 2 eggs, unbeaten 
1% tsp. salt 


1. Start heating oven to 375° F. Bring water, butter, and salt to a boil. Add 
flour, all at once. Then, over low heat, beat with spoon until mixture 
leaves sides of pan and forms compact ball. 


2. Remove from heat; continue beating to cool mixture slightly. 
3. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. 
4, Onto ungreased baking sheet, drop dough by rounded tablespoonfuls, 


91 


92 PASTRIES 


about 6” apart, in rows 2” apart. Shape each ball of dough into 4” x 1” 
rectangle. ) | 


5. Bake eclairs about 45 min., or until golden and puffed. Remove from 
oven; immediately cut small slit in side of each; return to oven for 10 
min. longer. Then remove and cool on cakerack. 


6. Split eclairs almost all the way around; then fill with your favorite choco- 


late filling. 
** If filled eclairs are not served at once, be sure to refrigerate them until 
served. 
CREAM PUFFS 
1 cup boiling water 1 cup sifted flour 
14 cup salad oil 4 eggs 


14 teaspoon salt 


Bring water to a boil in saucepan. Add salad oil and salt. Add flour all 
at once and beat rapidly, over low heat, until mixture leaves sides of pan and 
forms a smooth compact ball. Remove from heat, add unbeaten eggs one at 
atime. Beat hard after each egg is added, until mixture is shiny and smooth. 
After last egg is added, mixture should be thick. 

Drop by tablespoonfuls on greased baking sheet about 2” apart. Bake in 
hot oven, 450 degrees, 15 to 20 minutes, then reduce heat to moderate, 350 
degrees, and continue baking 20 to 25 minutes longer Cool and fill as 
desired. .. 


DANISH PASTRY 


1 pkg. active dry yeast 14 tsp. lemon extract 

4 cup warm water 4 tsp. mace 

4 cup granulated sugar 314 to 4 cups sifted all-purpose 
1 teaspoon salt flour cay 

14 cup shortening 1 cup soft shortening 

1 cup scalded milk 1 egg, beaten 

2 eggs | 1, cup chopped walnuts 


4 tsp. vanilla extract 


1. Sprinkle or crumble yeast onto warm water; stir until dissolved. In large 
bowl, place sugar, salt, 14, cup shortening, milk; stir until blended; cool 
till lukewarm. Then, with egg beater, beat in 2 eggs. 


2. To egg mixture, add yeast, extracts, mace, 3 cups flour; stir till smooth; 
then stir in enough additional flour to make soft easy-to-handle dough. 


PASTRIES 93 


Cover with clean towel; let rise in warm place (about 85° F.) until doubled 
in bulk. 


3. On lightly floured board, roll dough into 14” thick square. Dot with 1% 
cup soft shortening; fold dough and seal edges. Dot with rest of soft 
shortening; fold dough; seal edges as before. 


4. Now roll and fold dough into 13” thick square; fold in half lengthwise, 
then crosswise. Repeat folding and rolling 3 more times. Place dough 
in greased bowl; cover with towel; let stand 20 minutes. 


5. On lightly floured surface, roll dough 14” thick. Shape into pastries 
(rings, coils, figure eights, etc.) Place on cookie sheet. Cover with tow- 
el; let rise in warm place until half doubled in size. If desired, brush 
with | beaten egg; sprinkle with nuts. Bake at 475° F. 8 to 10 minutes 
or until done. Makes 24 pastries. 


FLAKY PASTRY 


2% cups sifted all-purpose flour 3/4, cup shortening 
34, teaspoon salt 514 tablspoons cold water 


Sift two cups of the flour and the salt into medium mixing bowl. Cut short- 
ening into the 2 cups flour with pastry blender or 2 knives, until particles are 
the size of peas. Mix water and remaining 14, cup flour to a smooth paste. 
Add this paste to the flour-shortening mixture, while mixing with fork, until 
blended and particles stick together when gently pressed. Form pastry into 
a ball; then roll out, or if preferred chill before using. Makes 1 8” or 9” two- 
crust pie; or 2 single crust 8” or 9” pies. 


HOT WATER PASTRY 


14 cup shortening 14 teaspoon salt 
4 cup boiling water 14 teaspoon baking powder 
114 cups flour 


Pour boiling water over shortening, beat until creamy; cool slightly. Sift 
flour, salt and baking powder together over the shortening, mix to a soft 
dough, using a fork. Cover with waxed paper or a plate and chill thoroughly. 
Roll and shape as for plain pastry. Prick well. Bake in 450° oven 10 to 15 
min. Makes 2 crusts. 


MERINGUE PIE SHELLS 


Beat the whites of 3 eggs until frothy; add 14, teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
lemon juice. Beat until stiff. Beat in 34 cup of sugar, adding about 2 table- 
spoonfuls at the time, then beat until satiny smooth. Spread meringue over 
9 inch pie pan, which has been greased. For fancy edge risens put 14 cup 
meringue through decorating tube. Bake in slow even 275° F. for 50 or 60 
minutes. 


94 PASTRIES 


PATE A CHOU 
(Pronounced Paht Ah Shoo) 


Melt 14 cup butter or other shortening in 1 cup boiling water in saucepan. 
Add | cup sifted enriched flour and 14 teaspoon salt all at once. Cook over 
medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture leaves sides of pan and is 
smooth and compact, about 2 min. Remove from heat, cool about | min. 
Blend in 4 eggs, one at a time, beating vigorously after each addition, until 
smooth and glossy. Drop onto greased baking sheets as directed below, de- 
pending on shape and size desired. Bake in hot oven 425° F. until golden 
brown for times listed below. 


Cream Puffs: Drop dough by rounded tbsps. Bake 20 to 25 min. Makes 
16 to 18. : 


Eclairs: Drop dough by rounded tbsps. Carefully spread each ball of dough 
with spoon into 4 x | in. rectangle, rounding sides and piling dough on top. 
Bake 20 to 25 min. Makes 16 to 18. 


Profiteroles: Drop dough by teaspoonfuls. Bake for 18 to 20 min. Makes 
about 4 dozen. 7 


Do not underbake. Turn off oven. Prick puffs with sharp knife for escape 
of steam; leave puffs in oven for 10 minutes to dry out centers. 


PIES 


es 


APPLE-MERINGUE PIE 


1 unbaked 10” pie shell 10 cups cored, pared, thinly sliced 
14 cup granulated sugar apples 

114 tbsps. flour 4 cup lemon juice 

3/4, tsp. nutmeg 3 tbsp. butter or margarine 

34, tsp. cinnamon 5 egg whites 

1 tbsp. grated lemon rind 24, cup granulated sugar 


Start heating oven to 425° F._ In small bowl, combine 14 cup sugar, flour, 
nutmeg, cinnamon and lemon rind. Sprinkle bottom of pie shell with 3 
tbsp. sugar mixture; top with layer of apple slices. Alternate layers of apple 
slices and rest of sugar mixture, ending with sugar mixture; sprinkle with 
lemon juice; dot top with butter. Bake about 40 min. or until apples are 
tender. Cool. 

Beat egg whites just until soft peaks form; add 24 cup sugar, | tbsp. at a 
time, beating well after each addition. With back of spoon, swirl meringue 
on pie in circle that comes to peak in center. Bake in 350° oven 20 min. or 
till light brown. Cool. Serve pie only slightly warm. 


APPLE RAISIN CRISSCROSS 


Pastry for 2 crust 9” pie Pinch of salt 

14 cup light or dark raisins 4 cups cored, pared, thinly sliced 
14 cup coarsely chopped walnuts apples 

24 cup granulated sugar 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 tbsp. flour 1 tbsp. butter or margarine 


14 tsp. cinnamon 


1. Start heating oven to 425° F. Roll out half of pastry to circle 114 in. 
larger than inverted 9” pie plate; use to line pie plate. Roll out other 
half of pastry into about 12” by 6” rectangle; cut into 10 strips, each 14” 
wide. 


2. In a small bowl, mix raisins and walnuts. In another, combine sugar, 
flour, cinnamon and salt. 


3. In pastry lined pie plate, arrange half of apples; sprinkle with half of 
raisin-walnut mixture, then half of sugar mixture. Repeat. Sprinkle 
apples with lemon juice; dot with | tbsp. butter. 


4. With twisted pastry strips, make lattice top; finish with fluted edge. 
Brush strips with melted butter. 


5. Bake 30 to 35 min. or until apples are tender and crust nicely browned. 
95 


96 


PIES 


BROWN DERBY BLACK BOTTOM PIE 


Mix 1 envelope unflavored gelatine, 34, cup sugar, and pinch of salt to- 
gether thoroughly in top of double boiler. 


Beat together 1 egg yolk and 34, cup milk; add to gelatine mixture. Add 
3 squares unsweetened chocolate. Cook over boiling water until choco- 
late is melted. Remove from heat and beat until smooth. Chill until 
thickened. 
Whip 1 cup cold evaporated milk and fold into gelatine mixture with | tsp. 
vanilla. 
Turn into 9” baked pie shell or crumb crust and chill until firm. 
Spread with | cup heavy cream whipped and sweetened, and top with | 
square unsweetened chocolate shaved into long curls with vegetable slicer. 
CHERRY COBBLER 

1 No. 2 can sour red cherries 14 teaspoon salt 

14 cup sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 tablespoon butter or margarine 


For the biscuit top: 


144 cups all-purpose flour 114 teaspoons baking powder 
14 tablespoons sugar 4 tablespoons shortening 
14 teaspoon salt 14 cup milk 


Drain juice from cherries and measure; if necessary add water to make 1 
cup. Combine the sugar, cornstarch and salt in a 1 qt. saucepan; stir in 
cherry juice. 


Bring to boil over medium heat; stir and boil 1 min. remove from heat; 
Stir in lemon juice and butter. Place cherries in greased casserole; pour 
in cooked cherry juice. ) 


Sift flour, measure; add sugar, salt and baking powder; sift into bowl. 
Cut shortening into flour with blending fork until mixture looks like 
coarse meal. 


Add milk, mix quickly with fork until all the flour is moistened. Turn 
dough out on floured board; knead lightly about 14 min. until outside 
looks smooth. 


Pat out dough lightly and evenly with floured finger tips to fit casserole. 
Lay dough over cherries. Bake in 400° oven for 20 to 25 min. Serve 
warm. 


PIES 97 


CRANBERRY-CHEESE PIE 


Whip 214 eight-ounce pkgs. (20 oz.) cream cheese until fluffy. Combine 
1 cup sugar, 114 tablespoons flour, 14, teaspoon grated lemon rind, 14, tea- 
spoon grated orange rind, and 14 teaspoon salt. Add to the cream cheese 
and beat until mixed. Add 3 eggs and 1 egg white, one at a time, beating 
well after each addition. Finally add 2 tablespoons evaporated or homogeniz- 
ed milk and 14 teaspoon vanilla, beating again until well blended. Pour into 
a slightly unbaked 9” pie shell. Bake 7 min in a very hot oven (450°). Re- 
duce to 200° F. and bake 15 min. more. Cool. Prepare a topping by com- 
bining in a saucepan a | Ib. can whole cranberry sauce, 2 tablespoons sugar 
and | tablespoon cornstarch. Cook over low heat until thick and clear. 
Blend in 1 teaspoon lemon juice and 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind. Cool; 
and spread over the cooled cheese filling. 


CREOLE MOLASSES PIE 


214 cups scalded milk 14 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons flour 34, cup molasses 

4 teaspoon cinnamon 2 tablespoons melted butter 
4 teaspoon nutmeg 2 beaten eggs 

Few grains salt 1 cup chopped pecans 


Combine scalded milk, cinnamon, nutmeg, salt, sugar, melted butter, mo- 
lasses, and beaten eggs. Add flour moistened to smooth paste and beat well. 
Add nuts. Pour into pie pan lined with crust, and bake in hot even 10 min- 
utes. Reduce heat and bake 20 min. longer. Cover with meringue, if desired. 


DREAM PIE 
3 egg yolks Juice of 2 lemons 
14 cup sugar 2 tbsp. grated orange rind 
1 tbsp. cornstarch 2 tbsp. grated lemon rind 


14 cup orange juice 


Beat egg yolks until cream colored. Combine sugar and cornstarch, stir 
in orange juice and add to egg yolks. Cook over boiling water until thick. 
Stir in lemon juice, lemon rind, and orange rind. When mixture is cooled, 
put into meringue shell. Chill for several hours before serving. 


98 


PIES 
EGGNOG CHIFFON PIE 
24, cup light cream, or milk 1 envelope unflavored gelatin 
3 eggs, separated 2 tablespoons cold water 
14 cup sugar 1 to 2 tablespoons rum 
Dash of salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 
lf, tsp. nutmeg 14 cup heavy cream, whipped 
Scald milk or cream in top of double boiler. 
Mix egg yolks, half of the sugar, salt and nutmeg, and add, while stirring, 
to the scalded milk. 
Return to double boiler and cook, stirring constantly, till mixture coats 
a spoon. 
Soften gelatin in water, add to custard and stir till dissolved. Strain 
mixture. 
Add rum and vanilla, cool and then chill in refrigerator till mixture is 
just beginning to set. 
Beat egg whites till stiff, add remaining sugar and beat till stiff. Fold 
into gelatin mixture. 
Fold in whipped cream. 
Pour into baked pastry shell and chill till firm. Sprinkle nutmeg on top, 
or garnish with whipped cream and then sprinkle with nutmeg. Makes 
enough for one 8” pie. 
FROSTED DAIQUIRI PIE 
Baked 9” pie shell 1 tsp. grated lime or lemon rind 
1 eny. unflavored gelatine Green food color 
24, cup granulated sugar 4, cup light rum 
1 tsp. salt 3 egg whites 
3 egg yolks 1, cup granulated sugar 
4, cup cold water Whipped cream 


14 cup fresh or canned lime juice 


In double boiler top, combine gelatine with 24 sup sugar and salt; add egg 
yolks, water, lime juice; with beater beat until blended; cook over boil- 
ing water, stirring, until mixture coats a spoon. Remove from heat; add 
rind; then tint pale green with food color. 


Cool mixture; stir in rum. Refrigerate until slightly thicker than unbeaten 
egg white. In large bowl, beat egg whites until they form moist peaks; 
then add 14 cup sugar, | tbsp. at a time, beating until stiff. Fold in gela- 
tine mixture. 


Turn mixture into pie shell; refrigerate several hours. Top with whipped 
cream, sweetened if desired. 


PIES 99 





LEMON TARTS 


2 eggs Pinch salt 

1 cup sugar Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon 

Butter size of a large egg 

Beat eggs together slightly; add sugar, salt, lemon juice and rind; also 
butter. Mix well. Too much beating will cause the custard to puff up over 


pastry and then fall. Leave the pastry edge looking sticky. Makes 1 regu- 
lar pie or 10 tarts. 


HUCKLEBERRY DUMPLINGS 


1 qt. huckleberries or blueberries* 414 teaspoons baking powder 
1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon sugar 

14 cup hot water 14 teaspoon salt 

Dash salt 1 cup milk (about) 


2 cups sifted all-purpose flour 


Wash berries and mix with sugar, hot water and salt. Cook in a large 
skillet to boiling point, reduce heat and cook slowly for about 5 minutes, or 
until berries are tender. 


While berries cook, sift flour, baking powder, sugar, salt in a bowl. Now 
use a fork and stir in enough of the milk to make a light dough. Drop heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls of this dumpling dough on top of the simmering berries. 
Cover tightly and cook over a low heat for 13 to 15 minutes. Don’t remove 
the lid during the cooking period. 


Serve dumplings immediately with berry sauce and rich cream on top. 
(Serves 6.) 


*Or use 2 cans (1414 oz. size) blueberries, a pinch of salt and 14 cup 
water cooked together to the boiling point. Then proceed as with fresh 
berries. 


LEMON PIE 
1 can condensed milk 3 egg yolks 
14 cup lemon juice 3 whites of eggs for meringue 


Put lemon juice and condensed milk, egg yolks, grated rind of 1 lemon into 
bowl. Mix well and put in baked pie shell. Add meringue and bake in oven 
until brown. 


100 PIES 


LOLAS COCOANUT PIE 


3 eggs, separated Butter size of an egg 
1 cup sugar Pinch of salt 
2 teaspoons cream 1 cup grated cocoanut 


1 teaspoon cornstarch 


Cream the butter and sugar; add the egg yolks and cream, salt and corn- 
starch, then the cocoanut. After the pastry shells have cooked partially 
done, put in the filling, return to oven and cook until done. Cover with 
meringue and brown. 


MAPLE NUT PIE 


1 tablespoon gelatine 14 teaspoon salt 
14 cup cold water 14 cup whipped cream 
2 eggs 14 cup chopped pecans 


34, cup maple syrup 


Soak gelatine and water about five min. Cook egg yolks, slightly beaten, 
maple syrup, and salt until thick over water in double boiler. Add softened 
gelatine and stir well. When mixture cools fold in whipped cream and egg 
whites, beaten stiff. Add chopped nut meats. Pour into baked pie shell. 
Chill. Serve with a thin coating of whipped cream and sprinkle over a few 
finely chopped nut meats. 


MINCE PIE 

ly Ib. citron (cut fine) 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 cup chopped apple 14 teaspoon cloves 
14 cup seeded raisins, chopped 14 teaspoon mace 
14 cup currants 14 teaspoon nutmeg 
14 cup butter 1 teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon molasses Stock to moisten 
1 tbsp. cider (boiled) or 1 tbsp. 2 tablespoons fruit jelly 

fruit juice 1 cup chopped well done meat 


1 cup sugar 


Mix ingredients except meat and jelly, and simmer 1 hour. Add meat and 
jelly and cook 15 minutes. 


Note: Bake mince pies with top and bottom crusts. 


PIES 101 


MOCHA ICE-CREAM PIE 


Make a graham cracker crust sufficient for a 9” pie plate. Crush 20 single 
graham crackers till very fine (114, cups crumbs). Add 14, cup melted butter 
and 14, cup sugar and blend thoroughly. Put mixture into 9” pie plate and pat 
bottom and sides so that a firm crust is formed. Bake in moderate oven 8 
min. Let 1 quart coffee ice cream stand at room temperature until it is soft 
enough to spread. Fill the pie shell half full and sprinkle generously with 
unsweetened shaved chocolate. Fill to the brim with ice cream and cover top 
with more shaved chocolate. Put it in freezer or freezing compartment of 
refrigerator and freeze until firm. About 15 minutes before serving time, 
take it out of freezer. Cut into pie-shaped wedges and serve. 


PARTY CREAM-CHEESE PIE 


31% cups crushed graham cracker 2 tablesp. butter or margarine 


crumbs 2 tablesp. cornstarch 
2/, cup soft butter or margarine 2, cup granulated sugar 
22 cup granulated sugar 2 cups buttermilk 
6 egg whites 6 egg yolks, slightly beaten 
2 8-oz. pkgs. soft cream cheese 2 teasp. vanilla extract 


Start heating oven to 400° F. Mix crumbs with 24 cup butter and 
24 cup sugar till blended. Reserve 1 cup crumbs. Turn rest into 13” x 9” x 2” 
baking pan; with back of spoon, press crumbs evenly into pan, making bottom 
slightly thicker than sides. Beat egg whites until stiff but not dry. With 
electric mixer (or with spoon), beat cream cheese with 2 tablesp. butter, corn- 
starch, and 24 cup sugar until light and fluffy. Add buttermilk, yolks, and 
vanilla; beat until smooth. Fold in beaten egg whites. Pour into prepared 
pan. Sprinkle reserved crumbs on top. Bake 25 min.; reduce heat to 325° 
F.; bake 15 min. longer, or until silver knife inserted in center comes out 
clean. Cool thoroughly. Refrigerate. 


Cream-Cheese Pie: Make 14 recipe. Bake in 10” pie plate at 350° F. 
30 min., or until silver knife inserted in center comes out clean. 


PECAN PIE 
1 cup pecans 1 teaspoon vanilla 
14 cup sugar 3 eggs 
14 cup melted butter 1 cup dark brown syrup 
1% teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons top milk 


Beat the eggs; add sugar and syrup then the salt and vanilla, add last the 
melted butter (margarine may be used). Place the pecans in the bottom of 
an unbaked pie crust; add the filling and bake slowly in a moderate oven 
50 to 60 minutes. © 


102 PIES 





PINEAPPLE CHIFFON PIE 


1 tablespoon plain gelatin 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

4 cup cold water 14 teaspoon salt 

3 eggs, separated 14 cup heavy cream, whipped 
34, cup granulated sugar 1 baked pie shell 


1 teaspoon grated lemon peel 


Add gelatin to cold water and allow to soak. Mix egg yolks, 14, cup sugar, 
crushed pineapple, lemon peel and juice together in top of double boiler. 
Cook over hot water, stirring constantly, until smoothly thickened. Add soft- 
ened gelatin and stir until dissolved. Cool until it begins to stiffen. Add 
salt to egg whites and beat until foamy. Add remaining 12 cup sugar and 
continue beating until stiff peaks form. Fold into cooled pineapple mixture. 
Heap into baked pie shell and chill until set. Before serving, spread with 
whipped cream. Decorate with pineapple wedges, if desired. 


PUMPKIN CHIFFON PIE 


1. Mix 1 envelope unflavored gelatin, 14 cup sugar, 1% tsp. salt, 14 tsp. cin- 
namon, 14 tsp. nutmeg, and 14 tsp. ginger together thoroughly in top of 
double boiler. 


2. Beat together 3 egg yolks and 34, cup milk; add to gelatin mixture. Add 
114, cups canned pumpkin. Cook over boiling water, stirring contantly 
until gelatin is thoroughly dissolved and mixture thickens, about 10 min- 
utes. 


3. Remove from heat and chill until thickened. 


4. Beat 3 egg whites until stiff; beat in 44 cup sugar. Fold into gelatin mix- 
ture. 


5. Turn into 9-inch baked pie shell or crumb crust and chill until firm. 
6. Serve with whipped cream, if desired. 


PUMPKIN PIE 


1 unbaked pie shell 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 cups cooked pumpkin 1 cup granulated sugar 

114 teaspoons cinnamon 2 tablespoons dark brown sugar 
14 teaspoon cloves 3 eggs, beaten 

14 teaspoon ginger 2 cups milk 


1 teaspoon salt 


Mix pumpkin, spices, salt, vanilla, sugars, eggs and milk. Carefully pour 
into the pie shell. Bake 10 minutes at 450 degrees, then 35 minutes at 325 
degrees. 


PIES 103 


RAISIN PIE 
2 cups seeded raisins 5 teaspoons cornstarch 
1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
1144 cups water 3 tablespoons butter or margarine 


Cook the raisins in the water and sugar until they boil. Add the cornstarch 
mixed with a little water and cook for five minutes. Remove from the fire; 
stir in the lemon juice and butter. Pour the mixture into an uncooked pie 
crust. Cover with top crust and make a few holes in this crust so juice can 
bubble through. Bake in 400° oven for about 30 minutes. Let cool to room 
temperature before serving. 


TYLER PIE 
3 cups brown sugar 4 eggs 
14 cup melted butter 1 tablespoon flour 
1 cup milk, scalded 34, teaspoon grated nutmeg 


Mix flour and sugar. Cream sugar and egg yolks, add melted butter and 
hot milk. Beat egg whites stiff and fold into the sugar mixture. Add nut- 
meg. Pour into unbaked pie shell and bake 10 minutes at 450 degrees, re- 
duce to 275 degrees and continue cooking until a knife inserted will come out 
clean. One cup chopped pecans may be added, if desired to the above in- 
gredients. 


SWEET POTATO PIE 


Line a 9” pie plate with pastry. Bake 4 medium-sized sweet potatoes. 
When well done, scoop the potato from the skins into a mixing bowl. Mix 
with 1 cup brown sugar and 14 cup butter. Season with 114 teaspoons nut- 
meg, 14 teaspoon cinnamon, 14 teaspoon ginger and 14, teaspoon salt. Beat 
until smooth. Separate 3 eggs and beat the yolks slightly. Add yolks with 1 
cup heavy cream to the potato mixture. Blend well. Fold in the 3 egg whites, 
beaten stiff, and pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake in moderate oven, 350 
degrees, for about | hour or until the center is set when tested with a knife. 
if necessary to brown the crust, raise the temperature to a hot oven, 450 
degrees, for about 5 minutes at the end of the baking time. 


CASSEROLE AND CHEESE DISHES 


ANCHOVY, EGGS IN TOMATO SAUCE 


1 doz. eggs, hard boiled and cooled 1 teaspoon vinegar 


1 can tomato paste Small pinch of sugar 
1 large can mushrooms 2 cups milk 
Itube anchovy paste 2 tablespoons flour 


14 stick butter 


Cut eggs lengthwise, press egg yolks through sieve. Add anchovy paste, 
add vinegar (about | tbsp.) and sugar. Stuff egg whites with mixture, stick 
eggs back together. Put in casserole (only one layer), add mushrooms be- 
tween eggs. Make cream sauce in double boiler. Melt butter, add flour 
and milk, cook until thick, stirring constantly, add tomato, pour over eggs. 
Run in oven 350° F. for about 20 min. Serves 6. 


ASPARAGUS SUPREME 


1 Ig. can asparagus 2 hard boiled eggs, cut in 14” slices 
114 cups heavy cream sauce 14 Ib. blanched almonds, split in 
14 cup grated American cheese halves 


Cut asparagus spears in half, place in bottom of buttered casserole. 
Sprinkle over with half the egg slices and nuts, add other part of asparagus 
and other egg slices and nuts. Pour over them the cream sauce with cheese 
melted in it. Cover with more grated cheese and bake in moderate oven until 
cheese is slightly brown. Serve hot. 


BACON AND EGGS SUPREME 


14 Ib. sliced bacon 3 tbsps. flour 

1 tsp. chopped green pepper 16 tsp. salt & pepper 

1 tsp. chopped onion 2 cups sweet milk 

Toasted English muffin halves 4 hard cooked eggs, sliced 


Place slices of bacon in cold skillet, do not over-crowd. Cook slowly, turn 
to cook evenly. Drain on absorbent paper. Pour off all but 2 tbsps. of drip- 
pings. Lightly brown onions and green pepper in the drippings. Blend in 
the flour, salt and pepper. Gradually add the milk. Stir and cook over low 
heat until the mixture is smooth and thick. Arrange one slice of egg on 
each muffin half, pour sauce over eggs; top with crisp bacon. Makes 6 
servings. 


104 


CASSEROLE AND CHEESE DISHES 105 


BAKED OR SHIRRED EGGS 


Do them in individual greased shallow muffin rings. Put a tablespoon of 
cream in each cup, break an egg in each, sprinkle with salt and pepper; add 
a drizzle of melted butter and bake in moderate oven until the eggs are set. 


CHEESE BISCUIT 


1 Ib. grated sharp cheese 14 tsp. salt 
1 Ib. all purpose flour 14 tsp. sugar 
1 Ib. butter or margarine Dash cayenne pepper 


Cream butter or margarine with cheese until creamy and smooth, grad- 
ually work in flour. Roll out to 3% in. thickness, cut out with small biscuit 
cutter. Put small pinch of powdered sugar in center of each biscuit. Press 
one-half pecan in center of biscuit and bake at 400° F. 10 to 12 min. 


CHEESE OMELET 


1 cup grated cheese 1 cup cracker crumbs 
1 cup sweet milk 2 eggs beaten separately 


Combine ingredients, except egg whites. After mixing well place in well 
greased baking dish and put in moderate oven 350° F. 2 minutes. Remove 
and fold in egg whites which have been stiffly beaten. Return to baking 
dish, set back in oven and bake until set. This is excellent! 


CHEESE SOUFFLE 


4 tablespoons butter 1 cup grated cheese 
3 tablespoons flour 14 tsp. salt 

2 cups hot milk 6 egg yolks 

14 teaspoon paprika 6 egg whites 


Melt butter, blend in flour, stir in milk slowly. Add cheese; when melted 
add egg yolks which have been well beaten, salt and paprika. Cook and stir 
until thick. Whip egg whites till stiff, fold lightly into cheese mixture; place 
in a buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate oven 325° F. until firm, 
about 30 min. Serves 6. 


CHEESE STICKS 


Use same recipe as for cheese biscuits, except press through a cookie press 
or pastry bag, or cut with regular cheese stick cutter. Delicious with salads, 
cocktails, coffee, etc. 


106 CASSEROLE AND CHEESE DISHES 


CHICKEN AU VIM 


2 3-lb. fryers, cut up 2 tbsps. flour 
1 med. size can mushrooms Salt and pepper 
1 tbsp. grated onion 


Cook onion in oil or butter until clear; remove from pan. In same pan 
brown chicken which has been dipped in seasoned flour. Place chicken, 
onion and mushrooms in a large casserole. Bake 114 hours in covered casse- 
role at 300° F._ If casserole stands an hour or so before baked, the flavor will 
be much improved. Serves 8. 


CHICKEN LIVER CASSEROLE 


3 tbsps. bacon drippings 1 Ib. chicken livers 
4 med. size onions | 14 cup butter 

1 small can mushrooms 1, tsp. dry mustard 
2 chicken bouillon cubes 4 tsp. celery salt 
14 cup boiling water 4 tsp. black pepper 
4 cup flour _ 1 cup sour cream 

1 tsp. salt 4 tsp. soy sauce 


Saute onions in drippings until golden brown. Place in casserole; top with 
mushrooms. Dissolve cubes in water, mix flour and salt and place in a paper 
bag. Wash livers and dry; shake in seasoned flour until coated. Saute livers 
in butter until they are browned. Place on mushrooms; add chicken bouillon 
to pan in which livers were browned and heat through. Pour over all, mix 
mustard, celery salt, pepper and sprinkle on top. Cover casserole and bake 
in hot oven 425° F. for 20 min. Mix cream and soy sauce together, add to 
casserole gradually, stirring constantly to prevent curdling. Serve imme- 
diately with hot rice. Serves 6. 


CHICKEN AND RICE CASSEROLE 


214 cups cooked chicken 14 cup water 

3 cups cooked rice 24, cup broiled sliced mushrooms 
‘4 cup butter or margarine 4 cup chopped pimento 

1 cup chicken broth ’, cup chopped green pepper 

144 cups evaporated milk 14 cup slivered blanched almonds 


Melt butter or margarine; blend in flour. Gradually add broth, milk and 
water; cook over low heat until thick stirring constantly. Add salt, chicken, 
rice, mushrooms, pimento and peppers. Pour into buttered casserole; bake 


in oven 350° F. about 30 min. Sprinkle with almonds when half baked. 
Makes 10 servings. 


CASSEROLE AND CHEESE DISHES 107 


CHICKEN TETRAZZINE 


3 cups cooked macaroni, chopped 1 cup mushrooms, sliced 

1 Ib. cooked chicken, cut in large 4 cup chopped pimento 
pieces 2 tbsp. butter 

2 cups milk 2 tbsp. flour 

2 cups grated cheddar cheese 1 tsp. salt 


Put alternate layers of macaroni and chicken in buttered casserole. Mix 
mushrooms and pimentos; melt butter, add flour, salt and milk. Pour over 
mixture and bake in oven 400° F. until it bubbles. 


CREOLE SHRIMP 


2 Ibs. shrimp 144 cups mixed, chopped green 
14 cup tomato sauce pepper, celery and onions 

1 can mushrooms 1 cup cooked rice 

3 tbsps. butter 34, cup cream 


Put butter in heavy frying pan, add shrimp and cook with top on pan for 
3 min. Add rest of ingredients and heat thoroughly. Season to taste, pour in 
greased casserole and bake 30 to 40 min. in oven 350° F. 


DANISH MACARONI 


8 oz. elbow macaroni 144 cups crumbled Danish Blue 
3 qts. boiling water cheese 

1 tbsp. salt 14 tsp. salt 

\, cup butter 4 cup minced onion 

14 cup all-purpose flour 1 cup diced cooked turkey 

2 cups milk 


Add tablespoon of salt to boiling water, gradually add macaroni so that 
water continues to boil, stirring occasionally. When tender (about 15 min- 
utes), drain and place layer of macaroni, layer of cheese and cold turkey in 
buttered casserole. Pour over white sauce, made with the butter, flour and 
milk with the minced onion added. Bake in oven 350° 25 minutes. Serves 6. 


DEVILED EGGS DELUXE 


8 eggs, hard boiled 1 tbsp. vinegar 
2 tbsps. mayonnaise 2 tbsps. India relish 
14 tsp. dry mustard 14 tsp. onion salt 


Cut cooked eggs lengthwise. Put yolks in shallow bowl; mash yolks with 
mayonnaise, mustard, salt and vinegar; blend until smooth. Stir in relish 
and stuff eggs. Top with slices of stuffed olives. Serves 8. 


108 CASSEROLE AND CHEESE DISHES 


DINNER CASSEROLE DE LUXE 


5 hard-cooked eggs 14 teasp. onion salt 

1 3-oz. can sliced mushrooms 14 cup minced celery 

Milk 14 cup packaged poultry stuffing 
3 tablesp. butter or margarine 14 cup grated process American 
2 tablesp. flour cheese 


4 teasp. salt 


Start heating oven to 375° F. Slice eggs into shallow 114-qt. casserole 
(10” x 6” x 2” baking dish). Drain juice from mushrooms into measuring 
cup; add milk to make 1 cup. In 1 tablesp. butter in saucepan, heat mush- 
rooms 2 or 3 min.; scatter mushrooms over eggs. Add rest of butter to sauce- 
pan; melt; stir in flour, salts, then milk mixture. Cook, stirring, until thick- 
ened. Add celery; pour over eggs. Scatter stuffing, mixed with cheese, over 
top. Bake 20 min., or until bubbly. Makes 4 servings. 


EGGS DIVAN 
Vegetable: Sauce: 
1 box frozen broccoli 114 tablesp. butter or margarine 
Deviled E'ggs: 114 tablesp. flour 
6 hard-cooked eggs (below) 14 teasp. dry mustard 
1 214-oz. can deviled ham 1% teasp. salt 
4 teasp. Worcestershire Dash pepper 
14 teasp. grated onion 34, cup milk 
14 teasp. salt 14 cup grated process sharp 
14 teasp. dry mustard American cheese 


Dash pepper 
1 to 2 tablesp. light cream or milk 


Cook broccoli till just tender as package directs; drain. Meanwhile, cut 
4” slice from one end of each cooked egg; carefully remove yolk. Mash 
yolks and end slices; add rest of deviled-egg ingredients. Mix well; then 
use to fill egg whites. 


Start heating oven to 400° F. In saucepan, melt butter, stir in flour, mus- 
tard, salt, pepper, then milk; cook until thickened. Add cheese; stir until 
smooth. 


Arrange broccoli in 10” x 6” x 2” baking dish. Stand eggs, with stuffed 
ends up, between and on broccoli pieces. Pour sauce over all. Bake 40 min., 
or until bubbly. Makes 4 or 5 servings. 


CASSEROLE AND CHEESE DISHES 109 


EGGS A LA KING 


8 hard boiled eggs, sliced 114 cups milk 
4 Ib. sliced mushrooms 2 beaten egg yolks 
2 tbsps. butter 14 cup cream 
2 tbsps. flour 1 tsp. lemon juice 


14 shredded green pepper 


Melt the butter, add the mushrooms and pepper and cook slowly until 
softened a little; add the flour and salt and mix well, add the milk slowly 
stirring until creamy. Add sliced eggs and stir carefully until very hot. Put 
lemon juice over it as it is taken from stove. Serve in pattie shells or on 
toast. Will serve 8. 


EGGS A LA RUSSE 


8 boiled eggs halved lengthwise 1, cup light cream 
1 cup mayonnaise Lettuce leaves 

14 cup chili sauce or catsup 8 thin tomato slices 
14 tsp. salt Parsley 


lf tsp. hot sauce 


Refrigerate eggs until well chilled. In small bowl combine mayonnaise, 
chili sauce, salt and hot pepper seasoning and light cream; refrigerate until 
well chilled. Arrange 2 egg halves on lettuce leaf for each serving—top 
each serving with 3 tbsps. mayonnaise mixture, a slice of tomato and sprig 
of parsley. Makes 8 servings. 


EGGS AURORA 


6 eggs salt 

ly pt. cream cayenne pepper 
1 tsp. french mustard butter 

Bread crumbs Swiss cheese 


Hard boil eggs slowly, slice and place in buttered casserole. Mix the mus- 
tard with the cream. Pour over the eggs alternately with bread crumbs. 
Season to taste with salt, cayenne pepper, bits of butter and small piece of 
Swiss cheese. Bake in moderate oven 350° about 20 min. Serves 6. 


EGGS BENEDICT 


Fry 6 thin slices of ham and place on 6 slices of buttered toast, top each 
with a poached egg. Heat | can mushroom soup with 14 cup of sweet milk. 
Pour over eggs. Sprinkle with minced parsley. Serves 6. 


110 CASSEROLE AND CHEESE DISHES 


EGGS FLORENTINE 


Line bottom of shallow baking dish with 2 cups of chopped, cooked spinach. 
Break 6 eggs and place on spinach. Melt 1 cup of grated cheddar cheese in 
2 cups of white sauce. Pour over eggs and bake in oven 350° F. about 25 
minutes. Serves 6. 


ENGLISH EGGS 


4 cups ground cooked veal 2 tbsps. melted butter 
4 cups cream sauce 2 tbsps. worcestershire sauce 
3 hard boiled eggs Salt and pepper 


Cream yolks of eggs with 2 tbsps. melted butter and worcestershire sauce; 
salt and pepper to taste. To this add a little of the veal, then stuff the eggs. 
Moisten the remainder of the veal with cream sauce and a little worcester- 
shire sauce and put in baking dish. On the top of the veal place the stuffed 
eggs and pour the rest of the cream sauce over this. Bake until light brown. 
Serves 6. 


FROMAGE 
1 Ib. cheese 14 pt. milk and cream 
2 egg yolks Dash of cayenne pepper and salt 


Beat the eggs very light, add the cream then the cheese. Pour in buttered 
pan and bake about 15 minutes in moderate oven, 350° F. 


HAM AND CHEESE CASSEROLE 


2 cups ground ham, raw or cooked 6 oz. pkg. noodles 
14 Ib. American cheese 1 cup sliced mushrooms 
14 green pepper 1 can condensed tomato soup 


Mix ham and cheese, cut in tiny bits; add chopped pepper, minced in but- 
ter. Cook noodles as directed on package, drain well. Mix lightly with 
other ingredients. Bake in greased casserole for 1 hr in 350° oven. Serves 
6 or 8. 


MACARONI AND CHIPPED BEEF CASSEROLE 


4 cups cooked macaroni 4 tbsps. butter 
1 cup chipped beef 114 cups milk 
2 eggs 2 tbsps. flour 


Put a layer of macaroni in a buttered casserole, then a layer of beef; cover 
with sauce made with butter, flour and milk, when almost thick enough pour 
over well beaten eggs. Add a layer of this sauce over macaroni and chipped 
beef, then add another layer of macaroni and chipped beef and remaining 
sauce. Top with bread craumbs and grated cheese. Cook 20 minutes in oven 
400° F. 


CASSEROLE AND CHEESE DISHES ri 


RICE CASSEROLE 


1 cup uncooked rice (long grain) 1 large onion (chopped) 
2 cans beef consomme 2 small cans mushrooms (sliced) 


Saute onion and mushrooms in half stick of butter or margarine until onion 
is done or brown. Put all ingredients in covered casserole and bake for about 
an hour. 


(This is so nice to serve with fried chicken when there is no gravy.) 


SPANISH MACARONI 


Cook | cupful of macaroni in boiling water 20 minutes. Allow 14 table- 
spoon of salt to 1 quart of water. Drain macaroni in collander and allow cold 
water to run through it. Combine with | cup of grated cheese. 

Make a sauce by frying 1 cup of chopped onion in 14 cup of butter or bacon 
drippings until light brown in color. Add one quart can of tomatoes, | clove 
of garlic, and 14 cup of chopped sweet red peppers. Simmer for 15 minutes. 

Butter a casserole, put in layer of sauce, then a layer of macaroni and 
cheese, and so on until dish is filled, having the sauce on top layer covered 
with grated cheese. Bake in moderate oven until cheese is lightly browned. 


NEVER-FAIL OMELET 
(Serve Hot) 


4 eggs, separated 34, cup sweet milk 
1% tbsps. flour 4 cup melted butter 


Beat whites of eggs until stiff but not too dry. Stir yolks well, slowly add 
flour until smoothly blended; add milk. Mix well and lightly fold in stiffly 
beaten egg whites. Grease iron skillet lightly and place over very hot flame. 
Pour in omelet and cook in moderate oven 350° F. 10 minutes, or until mix- 
ture seems firm in center when tested with silver knife. Loosen sides and 
bottom with spatula, place platter close to skilled and with spatula and cake 
turner flip omelet half over and lift quickly to platter. Sprinkle salt and 
pepper on omelet and cover with melted butter. The secret of a perfect 
omelet—do not salt until the list minute! 


OMELETTE A LA PAYSANNE 


2 tbsps. butter or margarine 14 tsp. salt 

14, cup diced bacon I, tsp. seasoned salt 
2 med. potatoes, finely diced Dash onion salt 

4 eggs 1 tsp. snipped parsley 


In 8” skillet, in 1 tbsp. butter, cook bacon until brown. Add potatoes; 
saute until potatoes are tender and golden. In bowl, with fork, beat eggs 
with seasonings, parsley. Stir in potato mixture. Meanwhile, in same skillet, 
heat remaining butter. Pour in egg mixture. 


112 CASSEROLE AND CHEESE DISHES 


RINK TUM DIDDY 


Brown 14 green pepper, cut in small bits, and 1 chopped medium onion in 
butter. Cut 1 Ib. cheddar cheese in small chunks and melt in chafing dish; 
add pepper and onions; add 1 can tomato soup, 4 tsp. salt, 14 tsp. pepper, 
14 tsp. dry mustard, 14 tsp. worcestershire sauce. When smooth, beat up 1 
egg white, stiff, and beat into the mixture. Serve hot immediately on toast 
or crackers. Serves 6. 


RUSSIAN EGGS 


6 eggs 1 tsp. butter 
1 small jar caviar 1 cup Hollandaise sauce 
2 tbsps. anchovy paste 6 rounds of lightly toasted bread 


Poach eggs until firm, butter toast; spread it with anchovy paste and put 
an egg on it; cover with the Hollandaise sauce and top with caviar. Serves 6. 


SCALLOPED OYSTERS (CASSEROLE) 


1 qt. oysters, drained 4 tbsps. butter 
14 cup sweet milk Saltines 


In a buttered casserole, put half the oysters, crumble enough saltine crack- 
ers to cover, put another layer of oysters, then another layer of crumbled 
crackers. Melt the butter, add milk and pour over all the ingredients. Bake 
about 20 minutes in 400° F. oven. Serves 6. 


SWISS-CHEESE PIE 


1 9” unbaked pie shell, well chilled Pinch nutmeg 
1 tablesp. soft butter or margcrine Pinch sugar 
12 slices bacon* Pinch cayenne 
4 eggs ly teasp. pepper 
2 cups heavy cream 1 Ib. natural Swiss cheese grated 
3/, teasp. salt (1 cup) 


Start heating oven to 425° F. Rub butter over surface of pie shell. Fry 
bacon until crisp; crumble into small pieces. Combine eggs, cream, salt, 
nutmeg, sugar, cayenne, and pepper; with egg beater, beat just long enough 
to mix thoroughly. Sprinkle bacon and cheese into shell; pour in cream 
mixture. Bake 15 min. Reduce oven heat to 300° F.; bake 40 min. longer, 
or until silver knife inserted in center comes out clean. Serve at once, cut 
into wedges. Makes 6 servings. 


*If you prefer, save out 6 bacon slices as garnish. Cook them until done 
but not too crisp. Immediately roll up each bacon slice; arrange, with seam 
side down, in bed of parsley around pie plate. 


CASSEROLE AND CHEESE DISHES 113 


SHIRRED EGGS MEXICAN STYLE 


1-2 onion, minced (medium size) salt and pepper 
2 tbsps. butter or margarine 6 eggs 
1 can tomato sauce (8 oz.) 1 cup rice (uncooked measurement) 


114 tsps. chili powder 


Cook rice according to package directions. Meanwhile fry onion in butter 
or margarine until tender, but do not brown Add tomato sauce, chili pow- 
der and a small amount of water if sauce is very thick. Add salt and pepper 
to taste. Divide sauce into greased custard cups, and break one egg into 
each cup. Place cups in shallow pan of hot water. Bake from 12 to 15 min. 
in a 375 degree oven. Scoop the eggs out and serve on a bed of fluffy rice. 
Makes 6 servings. 


SWISS SCRAMBLED EGGS 


1 214-0z. jar dried beef, shredded 6 eggs 


2 tablespoons butter or margarine 14 teaspoon salt 
6 tablespoons light cream or milk 14 pound Swiss cheese, cut in 
1, teaspoon pepper 14-inch strips 


Boiling water 


Cover shredded dried beef with boiling water; let stand | minute. Drain. 
Heat butter in a large skillet over moderately hot coals. Beat together eggs, 
cream, salt, and pepper. Pour egg mixture into skillet. Cook and stir gently 
with a fork until eggs are almost set. Add beef and cheese. Cover; set skil- 
let at back of grill and let stand about 2 minutes until cheese begins to melt 
and eggs are set. Serve at once. Serves 6. 


SKILLET SCRAMBLE WITH SLIVERED HAM 


Break 6 eggs into a medium-size bowl; add 14 cup milk, 14 teaspoon salt, 
and 14 teaspoon pepper; beat until frothy. Melt 2 tablespoons butter or mar- 
garine in a medium-size frying pan (do not let it bubble); pour in egg mix- 
ture; lower heat; cook slowly. As eggs begin to thicken, stir from the bottom 
with a wide rubber spatula or pancake turner to keep them in large creamy 
fluffs. Cut 1 small package (1 ounce) Gruyere cheese into small cubes; fold 
into eggs while they are still moist; remove from heat (eggs continue to cook 
from their own heat and cheese melts quickly). Spoon onto heated serving 
dish; garnish top with match-like pieces of cooked ham (or bologna). Makes 


4 servings. 


114 CASSEROLE AND CHEESE DISHES 


TUNA CHEESE CASSEROLE 


3 tbsps. flour 1 pkg. frozen green peas, cooked 
2 tbsps. butter and drained 

14 tsp. salt 6 ounces American cheese finely 
\4 tsp. black pepper cut 

1 can mushroom soup 4 tsp. parsley flakes 

14 cup milk lg tsp. thyme 

1 414-0z. can ripe olives bread crumbs 


1 6 or 7 oz. can tuna 


Melt the butter; stir in flour, salt and pepper. Add milk and soup, stir over 
medium heat until thickened. Add olives cut in small pieces. Add all other 
ingredients and blend. Pour into greased casserole; top with crumbs and 
bake at 350° F. for 30 to 35 minutes 


WELSH RAREBIT 


1 tbsp. butter or margarine dash of salt 
1 Ib. cheddar cheese | 14 tsp. paprika 
1 cup ale or beer 14 tsp. dry mustard 


Melt butter or margarine in top of double boiler or chafing dish and add 
the cheddar cheese, chopped. While it is melting add slowly the ale or beer. 
During this process stir constantly with a wooden spoon. Add paprika, mus- 
tard and salt. Keep stirring until mixture is well blended and cheese melted. 
Then pour immediately over 6 slices of fresh toast and serve. 


SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 


ASPARAGUS SOUP 


2 cups cooked asparagus, (canned 2 cups milk 

asparagus may be used) 1 medium onion, sliced thin 
2 cups asparagus water 4 tbsp. flour 
4 tbsp. butter Salt and pepper to taste 


2 cups chicken or meat stock 


Cut the tops off the asparagus; set aside. Combine the other asparagus, 
cut in short pieces with the chicken stock, (chicken bouillon cubes dissolved 
in the asparagus water can take the place of the stock), add onion and cook 
10 minutes. Rub through sieve. Melt the butter, stir in the flour and blend 
well; add the milk and seasonings to taste and cook a few minutes. Add the 
pureed asparagus and onions and asparagus tips. Cook all together 5 min- 
utes and serve hot. Serves 6 to 8. 


BEAN CHOWDER 


14 Ib. navy beans 114 tsp. salt 
1% Ib. salt pork 3 cups hot water 
3 tbsps. minced onion 3 cups milk 


Soak beans over night in cold water; drain Cut pork in cubes, saute until 
brown; add onions and saute lightly. Add hot water, beans and salt and cook 
1 hour or until beans are tender. Add milk and cook 5 minutes more. Serve 
with buttered toasted crackers. 


BLACK BEAN SOUP 


1 qt. black beans 1 medium onion 

2 tbsp. Sherry 1 hard boiled egg 

1 small beef bone for soup Juice of 1 lemon 

2 stalks celery 3 or 4 whole cloves 


Soak the beans over night. Next morning put the beans on to boil with 
beef bone, the celery and onion in plenty of cold water; boil until the meat 
leaves the bone. Take out the beans, onion and celery, mash through a col- 
lander. Put the beans and meat back in the pot and add the wine, lemon 
juice, egg and spices. Boil 10 minutes and serve. 


115 


116 SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 


BORSCH OR BEET SOUP I 
114 cups thinly sliced canned beets Equal amount of water 


1 cup shredded cabbage Dash salt 
114 cups thinly sliced onions Dash tobasco 
2 tsp. Accent Sour cream 


1 can consomme 


Boil the cabbage and onions in the consomme and water, beets and beet 
juice from can; add the Accent, salt and tobasco. Cook 15 minutes. No 
longer or beets will lose their color. This makes a thick soup, add a little 
more water if too thick. Add 14 cup sour cream; let soup get hot and serve. 


BORSCH OR BEET SOUP II 


1 1-Ib. can beets | 14 tsp. salt 
1, cup minced onion 1 cup water 
1 can consomme, undiluted 14 cup dairy sour cream 


Drain beets, reserving liquid. Finely chop beets. !In saucepan heat beets, 
beet liquid, onion, consomme, salt and water just to boiling point. Chill. 
Serve with a garnish of sour cream with a spear or two of asparagus, if you 
wish. Makes 6 servings. 


CELERY SOUP 


1 can condensed celery soup 14 cup cold water 
2 pieces bacon, fried crisp 2 tbsp. butter 
1 hard boiled egg, chopped fine Parsley 


1 envelope plain gelatin 


Pour condensed celery soup in saucepan and stir until smooth; soften gela- 
tin in cold water and blend in soup. Fill soup can with cold water and add to 
soup, stirring constantly. Break bacon into small bits and chopped hard 
boiled egg. Stir into the soup and serve hot. Float a bit of chopped parsley 
atop the soup and a shake of paprika. 


CHICKEN NOODLE SOUP 


1 small hen, about 4 Ibs. 2 stalks celery, cut up fine 
1 qt. sweet milk 14 box noodles 
14 stick butter or margarine Salt and pepper to taste 


Boil hen in 2 qts. water; cook until meat is very tender. Remove from heat 
and pull meat from bones, remove skin and gristle and cut in small bits. 
Return to stock in which chicken was cooked; add celery, milk and butter 
and cook 20 minutes. Add noodles and cook 20 minutes longer. If a thicker 


soup is desired, stir 1 tbsp. flour in 2 tbsp. cold water and add to soup and 
cook 5 minutes. Serve hot. 


SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 117 


CHICKEN SOUP ONOVATO 
2 cups cooked chicken, diced 14 Ib. blanched almonds 


Put chicken and almonds through meat grinder; then add | cup of coffee 
cream. Cook until quite smooth; add 1 qt. chicken broth or water chicken 
was cooked in and boil 20 minutes. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 
Strain and serve with crackers or cheese toast. 


CLAM CHOWDER 
14 Ib. pork, finely diced 2 cups carrots, diced 
2 gts. boiling water 1 qt. (large can) tomatoes 
1 tsp. salt 14 tsp. pepper 
4 cups diced white potatoes 20 fresh or canned clams, chopped 
2 cups white celery, cut up fine 114 tbsp. flour 
2 cups onions, chopped fine 1 tbsp. water 


Cook pork in hot water until tender; add salt and vegetables, except pota- 
_ toes, cook 20 minutes. Add potatoes and cook 20 minutes longer. Add 
clams and clam juice and cook 10 minutes. Thicken with flour and water 
paste. Serves 10 to 12. 


CLAM SOUP 
1 qt. clams 1 tbsp. flour 
1 cup water 14 cup water 
6 slices white meat, sliced thin 1 tbsp. mixed spices, ground 
1 medium onion, chopped 2 hard boiled eggs, sliced thin 
1 cup browned flour Few slices of lemon, sliced real 
14 cup water thin 


Cut up clams; add cup of water, crisply fried white meat, onion fried in fat 
of white meat. Simmer together for 14 hour. Brown cup of flour; rub 
smoothly with 14 cup of water; add to soup. Thicken with 1 tbsp. flour mixed 
with 14 cup cold water. Add spices, sliced hard boiled eggs, sliced lemons 
and stir briskly. Serve hot. 


CREAM OF CORN SOUP 


1 tbsp. butter 214 cups corn, fresh or canned 
1 tbsp. flour creamed style 
234, cups milk Salt and pepper 


1 egg yolk, well beaten 


Make a thin white sauce with butter, flour and milk. Add corn and rub 
through a sieve. Reheat. Season and add well beaten egg yolk. Cook 5 
minutes and serve hot. 


118 SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 


MINESTRONE SOUP 


Cover a large lean soup bone with 5 qts. of water and cook 3 hours. Add 
3 qts. of sliced vetgetables consisting of 3 white potatoes, cubed; 3 carrots, 
cubed; 2 onions, sliced; | cup chopped cabbage. Season with salt and pepper. 
After vegetables have cooked 20 minutes, lift out | qt. of the nicely diced 
ones and set aside. Lift out the meat and puree the other vegetables into 
the soup. Let cook, skim off fat When ready to serve, have ready | cup of 
cooked spaghetti and add with | qt. of diced vegetables. Serve piping hot 
and top each serving with Parmesian cheese. 


MUSHROOM SOUP 


14 |b. fresh mushrooms 1 qt. milk 
Butter size of an egg 1 cup meat or chicken stock 
2 tbsp. flour 


Peel the mushrooms and cut them up fine. Put the butter in a frying pan 
and when very hot, put in the mushrooms and the flour that has been well 
mixed with a little butter. Let the milk come to a boil in a double boiler; 
add the mixture and a cup of stock. Cook 5 minutes and serve. 


ONION SOUP 
14 stick butter or margarine 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 medium sized onion, sliced thin 14 tsp. garlic salt 
3 chicken bouillon cubes 1 tsp. salt 
4 cups water 1 tsp. pepper 


Cook onions in melted butter for 5 minutes; add water with bouillon cubes 
melted in it. Add Worcestershire sauce, garlic salt, salt and pepper and cook 
slowly 20 minutes Serve with Parmesan cheese sprinkled over soup. 


OYSTER SOUP OR STEW 


1 qt. oysters 1 level tbsp. salt 
1 qt. milk Dash black pepper 
14 |b. butter 6 drops Tobasco sauce 


Remove any pieces of shell from the oysters, do not wash. Melt the butter 
in a saucepan; drop oysters in melted butter and cook until oysters begin to 
curl at edges; add salt, pepper and tobasco sauce. Combine with milk which 
has been scalded and serve immediately. Will serve 6. 


SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 119 


POTATO SOUP 


6 medium sized potatoes 2 medium sized onions, chopped fine 
T qt. milk 2 tbsp. parsley, minced 
4 tbsp. flour Salt and pepper to taste 


Boil potatoes in salted water. Start them in cold water and cook for 20 
minutes in covered pot. Put butter in frying pan; when lightly browned, put 
onions in and simmer slowly 20 minutes. Then sift in the flour and blend 
well. Stir in 1 cup of the milk and blend in until smooth. Pour contents of 
frying pan in a saucepan and add the rest of the milk. Mash 4 of the pota- 
toes through a potato ricer and cut the other potatoes in small cubes. Add 
to the mixture in the saucepan with the parsley and season to taste. 


PUREE OF CHESTNUT SOUP 


4 cups chicken stock 2 cups coffee cream 
2 cups chestnuts, boiled and mashed 14 cup butter 

1 slice of onion 2 tbsp. flour 

14 tsp. celery salt Salt and pepper 


Cook the stock, chestnuts, slice of onion and celery salt for 10 minutes. 
Put through a sieve; add cream and combine with other ingredients. Cook 5 
minutes and serve hot. 


SPLIT PEA SOUP 


2 cups split peas 1 tsp. salt 

2 gts. chicken stock 14 tsp. pepper 
2 carrots, sliced thin Dash garlic salt 
1 onion, sliced thin Pinch Cayenne 


2 stalks or ribs of celery, cut fine 


Soak peas in chicken stock over night. To this mixture add the vegetables 
and seasonings; boil hard 20 minutes. Reduce heat and simmer 1 hour. 
Strain and add 1 cup milk and cook 2 minutes. Serve hot. 


TOMATO SOUP 


1 214 can tomatoes or fresh Pinch of soda 
tomatoes 2 cups milk 

2 tsp. butter 1 tsp. celery salt 

1 thin slice onion 1 thin slice of lemon 

1 tsp. sugar Sprig of parsley 


Cook tomatoes with sugar and pinch of soda 15 minutes Scald the milk 
with onion and lemon sliced and parsley. Add the sieved tomatoes and cel- 
ery salt to milk mixture, after removing onion and lemon. Cook 5 minutes 
and serve hot. 


120 SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 


TURKEY SOUP 


Boil bony pieces of turkey or carcass (if you have one) in 2 qts. of water 
with 1 cup of chopped celery, 1 slice of onion for 2 hours. Strain and add 14 
cup of cooked rice, 14 cup peas (omit if not desired), 2 tbsp. butter, salt and 
pepper to taste. Simmer 14 hour longer. 


TURTLE SOUP 


1 small turtle 6 cloves 

1 large onion Yolks of 4 hard boiled eggs 
4 bay leaves 2 tsp. flour 

1 qt. water 2 tbsp. butter 


1 tbsp. Sherry to each bowl of soup 


Boil the turtle in the water with bay leaves and onion until the turtle is 
soft. Keep the stock. Take out the bones of the turtle. Fry the onion in 2 
tbsp. butter, then thicken with 2 tsp. flour. Pour the stock over it and add 
the meat. Cream the yolks of eggs with the sherry and add when ready to 
serve. 


VEGETABLE SOUP 


1 good sized soup bone, cracked 2 cups diced potatoes 
3 qts. cold water 1 cup butter beans 

4 tbsp. butter 1 cup cream corn 
114 cups chopped celery 3 tsp. salt 

1 cup chopped onions 1 tsp. black pepper 


3 cups canned tomatoes 


Wash soup bone and be careful to remove any loose pieces of bone. Put 
in cold water and boil for 2 hours in large kettle. Remove bone from broth. 
Add all vegetables except corn to broth; cook until tender. Add salt and 
pepper and corn; cook 10 minutes longer. Put a lump of butter size of 14 
egg in soup and serve hot. 


VICHYSOISSE 
6 medium sized white potatoes Sweet butter 
2 medium sized onions 1 qt. chicken stock 
White part of 6 leeks 1 pt. coffee cream 


1 pt. top milk 


Brown lightly finely cut leeks and onions in sweet butter; add finely diced 
potatoes. Put all these ingredients in 1 qt. of water and cook until tender. 
Then put all of these vegetables through a sieve; add 1 qt. of chicken stock 
or white consomme; add 1 pt. milk. Bring mixture to a boil, season to taste 
and thicken with 1 pt. of coffee cream This soup must be served ice cold. 


POULTRY AND GAME 


BAKED CHICKEN 


1 5-Ib. hen Butter 
1 leaf of celery Dressing 


It is best to have hen dressed and drawn the day before making. Rub ] 
tbsp. salt inside the hen and put in refrigerator overnight. Rub hen with 
melted butter or margarine and put on rack in roaster. Cook in oven 400° F. 
until the drumstick moves easily. Take out of oven and stuff with the fol: 
lowing dressing: 

First cook neck and giblets in 3 cups of water with 1 tsp. salt for 30 min. 
Toast enough bread to make 3 cups. Cut up enough celery to make | cup. 


2 tbsp. onion, cut fine 2 eggs, well beaten 
14 stick butter 1 tsp. ground black pepper 


Combine all ingredients with enough of the stock to make the dressing the 
right consistency. Stuff the hen; put back in oven to brown. From the drip- 
pings, water and remaining stock, make the gravy. Make remaining dress- 
ing in patties and use as garnish for the hen. 


BAKED CHICKEN AND NOODLES 


5-Ib. stewing chicken 2 tablespoons flour 

1 celery stalk 3 cups chicken stock 
1 carrot 2 egg yolks 

1 large onion 14 cup cream 

2 bay leaves Salt 

14 teaspoon savory Pepper 

\, cup chicken fat 1 pkg. (8 oz.) noodles 


Put the whole chicken in a kettle along with enough hot water to half cover. 
Toss in celery, carrot, onion, bay leaves, savory and bring to a boil. Cover, 
reduce heat and cook gently for about 214 hours or until chicken is very ten- 
der. Let chicken rest in the stock until cool enough to handle, then remove 
and skim all fat from surface of stock. Scoop out seasoning vegetables and 
toss away. Save fat and stock to use later on. Remove chicken skin and 
discard. Pull meat off the bones and cut large pieces in sizable chunks. 


Heat 14 cup chicken fat in a saucepan, stir in flour smoothly, pour in chick- 
en stock and cook, stirring constantly, until sauce bubbles. Mix egg yolks 
and cream together in a bowl, then stir in the hot stock sauce a dribble at a 


12] 


2. POULTRY AND GAME 


time. Cook over a low heat for about 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Season 
with salt and pepper. 


Cook noodles until tender according to package directions. Drain. Start 
your oven at 400° F. and grease a large casserole. Arrange alternate layers 
of noodles and chicken. Pour sauce over the top and bake 20 to 25 minutes 
or until top is brown and bubbly. Makes 8 servings. 


BARBECUED CHICKEN 


Select two or three broiler-fryer chickens split lengthwise, quartered, or 
breast and leg parts. If using halves or quarters, hook wing tip behind 
shoulder joint onto back. Brush with the barbecue sauce. Place on grate 
set 12 inches or more from heat—skin side away from heat. Cook slowly 
until tender, turning frequently and basting each time. Allow 1 to 1384 hours 
for total cooking time. Drumsticks should twist easily out of thigh joints. 
lf parts are used, thickest pieces should be fork-tender. Just before serving, 
brush chicken with any left-over sauce or use for dunking. 


Barbecue Sauce: 


Measure 14 cup melted butter, 34, cup lemon juice or vinegar, 14 cup 
water, 114 tbsp. salt, 2 tbsp. sugar and 114 tsp. Tobasco into saucepan. Heat 
to boiling. Keep hot for basting chicken. Mix thoroughly before each bast- 
ing. If you prefer a highly seasoned sauce, increase Tabasco and add mus- 
tard and Worcestershire sauce. 


BROILED SPRING CHICKENS 


Split 2 spring chickens, about 114 Ibs. each. Salt and pepper well on both 
sides. Place in a roasting pan on rack, do not cover. Baste with melted but- 
ter or margarine, put uncovered roaster on floor of oven, turn on broil and 
cook about 20 minutes; baste with 14 cup orange juice and 14 cup sherry if 
desired. Remove chickens to hot platter and make gravy in the roaster. 


CALIFORNIA CHICKEN LIVERS 


6 slices bacon 14 cup sauterne or other dry wine 
Flour, salt, pepper (white) 
1 pound chicken livers Chopped fresh parsley 


Cook bacon until crisp and drain on paper. Pour off drippings and then 
measure 14, cup drippings back into pan. Coat livers in seasoned flour and 
cook in bacon fat until lightly browned. With heat on low, add wine, cover 
and steam a few minutes. Crumble bacon and sprinkle with chopped parsley 
over livers. Serve plain or on buttered toast or rice . 


POULTRY AND GAME 123 


CHICKEN A-LA-KING 


1 hen, about 5 Ibs. (save stock) 1 can evaporated milk 

14 green pepper, chopped 2 cups chicken stock 

1 can mushrooms, sliced 1 cup finely chopped celery 

14 pimento, cut up 2 tablespoons finely chopped onion 
3 egg yolks 14 glass sherry 

1 tablespoon butter Salt to taste 

1 tablespoon flour Pepper to taste 


Put celery, green pepper, onion and stock in a saucepan; boil 15 min. Add 
butter, salt and pepper. Thicken like a sauce with flour. Add the diced 
cooked chicken, pimento and mushrooms. Cook 10 min Before serving, 
add the well beaten egg yolks in milk, continue cooking 5 minutes; add 
sherry. Sherry may be omitted, if not desired. 


CHICKEN CACCIATORE (ITALY) 


2 114-lb. chickens, cut up 1 teaspoon spice island spaghetti 
1 can tomato paste seasoning 
14 medium onion, cut fine 14 teaspoon oregano 
1 bell pepper, cut into strips length- V2 teaspoon dried parsley 
wise 3 or 4 tablespoons olive oil or 
1 can mushrooms bacon drippings 
Garlic salt 1 package spaghetti 


14 teaspoon black pepper 


Wash and pick over chicken; dry. Fry chicken slowly either in olive oil or 
bacon fat, until brown. Season with garlic salt and black pepper. Place the 
fried chicken in open baking dish. 


In same skillet saute onion until soft and slightly golden. Add tomato 
paste and fry over very slow heat until the redness has left the paste; stir 
often as it is apt tostick. Add bell pepper, spaghetti and seasonings, oregano, 
parsley, mushrooms, more garlic salt if needed. Add enough water to the 
mixture to increase quantity to cover chicken in baking dish. Pour over 
chicken. Bake in 300° F. oven for 2 to 3 hours. Serve over cooked spaghetti, 
garnish with Parmesian cheese. 


124 POULTRY AND GAME 


CHICKEN CHOW MEIN 


14 cup thinly sliced onion *1 cup diced cooked celery 
3 tbsp. butter or margarine *14 cup cubed canned bamboo 
1 tbsp. flour shoots 
2 cups chicken stock *14 cup sliced water chestnuts 
3 tbsp. soy sauce *1 cup cooked or canned bean 
2 cups diced cooked or canned sprouts 
chicken 4 Ib. blanched almonds 
1 cup cooked or canned sliced 1 cup slivered cooked or canned 
mushrooms chicken 


Saute onion in butter or margarine. Blend in flour; gradually add 1 cup 
stock. Cook slowly; stir constantly, until slightly thick. Add soy sauce. 
Combine diced chicken, mushrooms, celery, bamboo shoots, water chestnuts, 
bean sprouts and remaining stock; heat. Add to sauce. Bring to boil; add 
almonds. Serve on cooked rice and Chinese noodles. Top with slivered 
chicken. Garnish with olives and radishes. Serves 8. *Or substitute 3 cups 
canned mixed Chinese vegetables. 


CHICKEN COUNTRY CAPTAIN 


8 chicken breasts 14 teapsoon pepper 

8 thighs 1 teaspoon paprika 

8 drumsticks 1 green pepper, chopped fine 
1 214 can tomatoes 14 teaspoon thyme 

3 onions chopped fine 314 cups water 

1 tablespoon parsley, chopped 14 teaspoon curry 

1 clove garlic, chopped fine 1 Ib. blanched almonds 

14 teaspoon salt 2, cup currants 


Soak chicken in cold water 15 min. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Roll 
pieces in flour to which paprika has been added. Fry in deep fat until chicken 
is golden brown. Then place in roaster pan. 


Melt butter, 14 Ib. in heavy pan; add onions, garlic, parsley, green peppers, 
curry and thyme. Saute slowly for 15 min., stirring constantly; then add the 
water; simmer 15 min. more. Add tomatoes and cook until smooth. Pour 
sauce over browned chicken in roaster; cover and cook 45 min. in 325° F. 
oven. After cooking 30 min., add currants to sauce. Sprinkle almonds over 
chicken before serving. Always serve over fluffy rice. 


POULTRY AND GAME 125 


CHICKEN CROQUETTES 
1 large hen (5 Ibs.) 1 teaspoon onion juice 
34, cup flour 2 tbsp. chopped parsley (may use 
114 sticks butter celery if preferred) 
1 pt. milk 1 teaspoon salt 
2 eggs 14 teaspoon pepper 


1 teaspoon lemon juice 


Boil chicken until tender. Cool and cut meat fine. In double boiler make 
a thick cream sauce of the butter, flour, salt, pepper and milk. When this is 
thick, add the chicken; then add the beaten eggs to the hot mixture. Remove 
from heat, add parsley, onion juice and lemon juice. Put in refrigerator and 
let get cold. When cold mold the croquettes and roll in cracker meal. Let 
stand in refrigerator until chilled. Fry in deep fat—250°—until golden 
brown. Makes 10 croquettes. 


CHICKEN GUMBO 


1 214-lb. chicken, cut up as for 1 qt. fresh okra, coarsely chopped 
frying 2 tablespoons butter 

3 medium sized onions, sliced thin 2 tablespoons bacon drippings 

6 large fresh tomatoes, peeled 1 sprig of parsley, if desired 


and quartered 


Put the butter and bacon drippings in a heavy pot. Add tomatoes and 
chopped okra; add the chicken, cover and cook 15 minutes. Then add the 
onions and parsley and 3 cups of water. Let simmer slowly for 30 minutes. 
Serve on cooked rice. 


CHICKEN LOAF 


1 hen—4 or 5 Ibs. 8 hard boiled eggs 

1 cup of chopped celery 14 cup chopped sweet mixed pickle 
1 cup chopped parsley Juice of 3 lemons 

1 pkg. gelatin Salt and pepper to taste 


Cook chicken until tender. Cut in small pieces or cubes. Mix 2 cups 
chicken stock with juice of lemons. Dissolve gelatin in this mixture. Place 
in loaf pan a layer of chicken; then a layer of sliced eggs. Stir celery, parsley 
and chopped pickle in gelatin mixture. Pour over the chicken and egg layers. 
Congeal in refrigerator and slice as cake when served. Delicious with thou- 
sand island dressing! 


126 POULTRY AND GAME 


CHICKEN MARENGO 


(France) 
2 2-lb. chickens 1 tablespoon tomato paste 
1 No. 214 can tomatoes 3 tablespoons olive oil 
6 tablespoons white wine 12 mushrooms, sliced 
6 chicken bouillon cubes melted | 1 clove garlic 
in 14 cup hot water 6 small onions (pickling size) 


Put the oil in a skillet, when hot add the floured chicken. Cook to golden 
brown on all sides. Add the tomatoes and paste. Add the white wine, the 
bouillon, mushrooms and onions, which have been browned in butter. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper. Add the garlic and immerse all together | 
hour or a little longer. Put the chicken on a hot platter and pour the sauce 
over them. Garnish with parsley. Serves 6. 


CHICKEN PIE 
1, cup chicken fat 1 teaspoon salt 
14 cup flour 14 teaspoon pepper 
3 cups chicken broth 4 cups cooked chicken, cut in large 
1 cup cream or milk pieces 
1 tablespoon minced onion pastry, using 1 cup flour and 1 
14 teaspoon ground ginger tbsp. milk 


Blend chicken fat and flour in saucepan over low heat until bubbly. Add 
broth and cream at once and cook stirring constantly until uniformly thick- 
ened throughout. Add onion, ginger, salt and pepper. Place chicken in a 
2 quart shallow casserole. Pour in the hot gravy. Roll pastry to fit casserole. 
Cut openings for steam vent. Adjust pastry cover. Brush top with milk. 
Bake promptly in a 425 degree oven until top is brown and sauce bubbly, 25 
to 35 minutes. Makes 6 to 8 servings 


CHICKEN SAUTE A-LA-CREOLE 


2 21,-\lb. spring chickens, disjointed 14 can tomatoes, may use fresh 


2 tablespoons butter ones if desired 

2 tablespoons flour 1 clove garlic 

2 large onions 3 sprigs parsley, chopped 
3 green peppers chopped (sweet) 1 pint of consomme 


Put butter in pan; when it melts, put chicken in and let it brown; then add 
onions chopped fine. Add flour and tomatoes. Let them all cook slowly for 
15 minutes; adding parsley, garlic and sweet peppers. The tomatoes will 
make the gravy continue cooking for 20 minutes. Then add the consomme 
and cook 20 minutes longer. If it needs a little more liquid, add 14 cup of 
hot water. 


POULTRY AND GAME 127 


CHICKEN STEW WITH PASTRY 


1 3-Ib. chicken 1 teaspoon black pepper 
1 stick butter 2 cups water 

2 cups small white potatoes, scraped 2 cups rich milk 

1 teaspoon salt 


Cut chicken up as for frying. Boil in 2 cups water with salt, butter and 
pepper for 20 minutes. 


Pastry: 


2 cups flour 24 cup Crisco or other shortening 
1 teaspoon salt 


With pastry blender or 2 knives, cut shortening into flour until size of a 
pea. Stir in ice water to make consistency to roll out. Put milk and potatoes 
in pot with the chicken. Roll pastry thin; cut in narrow strips and drop in 
chicken mixture a little at the time, as the liquid boils over one of the pastry 
layers, then add more of the pastry until all is used. This should be about 
20 minutes. 

A delicious dish to serve with fresh corn, sliced tomatoes and lima beans! 


CHICKEN-AND-SEA-FOOD RISOTTO 


Get 2 chicken hindquarters—legs and thighs—2 chicken breasts and 2 
chicken wings, 2 pounds fresh or frozen shrimp, 1 pound lobster tails, | pound 
scallops, 1 slice smoked ham weighing at least 34, pound, 4% pound fresh 
mushrooms, | Bermuda onion, 3 cloves garlic, one 1-pound can plum to- 
matoes, 114 pkgs. converted rice and some saffron and parsley. Cut the raw 
meat from breasts and legs of chicken into bite-size pieces and put the skin, 
bones and wings in a kettle with 5 cups water. Add 1 tablespoon salt and | 
tablespoon monosodium glutamate. Bring to a boil and simmer while you 
prepare the sea food. Use a pressure cooker to make the broth if you like, 
but use only 4 cups water. Remove meat from lobster tails and cut into bite- 
size pieces. Wash, shell and devein shrimp. Wash scallops and if they are 
large, cut into small pieces. Cut ham into 144” cubes. Wipe mushrooms with 
a damp cloth and slice. Chop enough Bermuda onion to make 1 cup, and 
enough parsley to make 14 cup. Now to the cooking. Melt 44 pound butter 
in a skillet Add chicken pieces and 1 teaspoon monosodium glutamate 
and cook over high heat about 15 minutes, stirring often. Add chopped 
onion and 3 cloves garlic, minced, and cook until onion is transparent. Strain 
chicken broth, bring to a rolling boil and add shrimp, a few at a time, letting 
broth return to a boil after each addition. This is to make sure that the 
shrimp will turn to a brighter color. When all shrimp are in, add lobster 
meat; cook, uncovered, 5 minutes and add 1 rounded teaspoon saffron. Cook 
a few minutes longer. 

In a large kettle add all ingredients—chicken, shrimp and lobster with 
broth, scallops, ham, tomatoes, parsley and sliced mushrooms. Toss together 


128 POULTRY AND GAME 


and add 2 teaspoons salt and 14 teaspoon pepper. Add 114 pkgs. converted 
rice. Transfer to a 4-quart casserole in which it will be baked and garnish 
top with squares of pimento. All this, except adding rice, can be done the 
day before. Bake, covered, in 375 degree oven for 1 hour and 15 minutes, 
or until rice is tender and has absorbed liquid. Uncover twice during baking 
and stir so that the rice will cook evenly throughout the casserole. If your 
guests leave any of this delicious dish, put in a small casserole and freeze for 
use at a future date. 


CORNISH HENS ON COMPANY RICE 


2 frozen Rock Cornish hens, each 14 1014 oz. can condensed cream 


about 114 Ibs. of mushroom soup, undiluted 
Salt and pepper 14 cup heavy cream 
Melted butter or margarine 1 teaspoon dried marjoram 
14 cup raw wild rice Dash dried basil 
114 cups boiling water Dash dried tarragon 
14 teaspoon salt 14 teaspoon curry powder 
1 tablespoon butter \4 teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons minced onion 1, teaspoon pepper 
1 tablespoon minced green pepper Few canned sliced mushrooms, 
14 4-oz. can sliced mushrooms, heated 

drained Fresh dill 


Day before: 
1. Let Cornish hens thaw overnight in refrigerator; save giblets to serve later. 


About 1 hr before serving: 


1. Start heating oven to 425 degrees. Sprinkle hens with salt and pepper. 
Arrange in shallow, open pan without rack; brush liberally with melted 
butter. Brushing often with melted butter, roast, uncovered, 45 min. or 
until golden and done. 


2. Meanwhile, wash rice well in three or four changes of cold water. Then, 
to boiling water in saucepan, add 14 teasp. salt; stir in rice. Simmer, 
covered 30 min., or until rice is done and water absorbed. 


3. While rice cooks, in 1 tbsp. butter in another saucepan, saute onion, 
green pepper, and drained canned mushrooms 5 min. Stir in cream of 
mushroom soup, cream, marjoram, basil, tarragon, curry, 14 tsp. salt, 
and 1 tsp. pepper; heat 10 min. 


4. Then add cooked wild rice to this mixture, and heat, stirring occasionally. 


2 When hens are done, arrange on a bed of wild rice on serving platter. 
Top rice with a few heated canned sliced mushrooms; garnish with a ring 
of fresh dill. Makes 2 servings. 


POULTRY AND GAME 129 


CRANBERRY-CHICKEN EXOTIC 
1 214 to 3 Ib. ready to cook broiler- 1 cup water 


fryer, cut up 1 tablespoon white vinegar 

1 teaspoon salt 3 whole cloves 

Dash pepper 1 stick cinnamon 

114 tablespoons butter or marga- 1 tablespoon seedless raisins 
rine 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

14 cup canned jellied cranberry 2 tablespoons water 
sauce 


Season chicken with salt and pepper. In hot butter in 9” or 10” skillet, 
saute chicken, few pieces at a time, until golden on both sides. Mix cran- 
berry sauce, | cup water, vinegar, cloves, cinnamon, and raisins; pour over 
chicken. Simmer turning occasionally, covered, over low heat about 40 min. 
or until chicken is fork-tender. Remove chicken to heated platter. Make a 
paste of cornstarch and 2 tbsp. water; stir into mixture in skillet. Simmer 
gently, stirring, until thickened. Serve over chicken. Makes 4 servings. 


JELLIED CHICKEN LOAF 


1 large chicken (5 or 6 Ibs.) 114 teaspoons salt 

1 teaspoon celery seed 4 teaspoon black pepper 

1 tablespoon plain gelatin 1 small sweet green pepper cut 
1 cup of diced celery in small pieces 

1, cup pecan meats, broken 3 hard boiled eggs 


Cook chicken until meat falls from bones. Remove from heat and take 
out skin and bones. Return skin and bones to broth and cook 20 minutes 
longer. Then cut chicken into small pieces and mix with nuts, diced celery, 
and pepper. Drain broth and remove all fat possible. Soak gelatin in 44, cup 
cold water 5 minutes; then add hot broth. When gelatin has dissolved, com- 
bine with all other ingredients, adding sliced boiled eggs last. Place in mold 
or deep pyrex dish, set in refrigerator until set or stiff enough to serve. Will 
serve 12 people. 


DEVILED CHICKEN 


2 to 214 Ib. broiler-fryer chicken 14 teaspoon paprika 
14 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vinegar 
1 teaspoon prepared mustard 2 slices white bread 


4 tablespoons butter or margarine 


Preheat your broiler. Split the chicken in half, place on a piepan, skin side 
down and sprinkle with salt. Broil 4 inches from unit until nicely browned, 
then turn and spread the skin side with mustard and 2 tablespoons butter or 
margarine. Sprinkle with paprika and vinegar and broil 8 to 10 min. longer. 

Crumble the bread fine and cook in remaining butter or margarine until 
fat is absorbed. Turn oven heat to 350 degrees, scatter crumbs over chicken, 
transfer to oven and bake 35 minutes or until tender. Serves 2. 


130 POULTRY AND GAME 


FRIED CHICKEN WITH MOLE SAUCE 
2 21% Ib. fryers, cut up. (Save giblets, necks for later use.) 


Dip chicken in water, leave wet; dip in 3 or 4 tbsp. flour with salt and pep- 
per to taste sifted in. Cover chicken with as much flour as will cling to it. 
Fry in hot fat, 1 in. deep, until golden brown. Cook 1 cup rice until fluffy. 
Serve with Mole Sauce over the chicken which is placed around the rice. 
Serves 8. 


Mole Sauce: 


Put the following through a food chopper: 2 green peppers, cut into strips; 
2 large onions, cut into sections; 14 cup shelled almonds; 2 peeled cloves of 
garlic; 1 qt. canned tomatoes; 14, cup coarse cracker crumbs and a 2-oz. jar 
of pimento. Put 14, cup of olive oil in a saucepan. When hot, add the ground 
mixture. Then add 1 cup of stock made from a cup of water and 2 bouillon 
cubes. Season with 114, teaspoons salt, 1 tablespoon chili powder, dash of 
pepper, pinch of cloves, and a pinch of cinnamon. Add more seasoning to 
taste as it cooks. Cook slowly about an hour, stirring occasionally so it won’t 
stick. 


GRILLED CHICKEN 


2 broiling chickens, 214 Ibs. each 2 teaspoons paprika or curry or 
14 cup melted butter or margarine chili powder (whichever suits 
2 tablespoons lemon juice your taste best) 


Salt and pepper 


Split and clean chickens and remove the backbone and neck. The halves 
will then lie flat and cook more evenly. Combine melted butter, lemon juice 
and one of the seasonings. Sprinkle the chicken with salt and pepper. Brush 
pieces with butter mixture. Place on grill with bone side or inside nearest 
the hot coals. When inside is well browned, brown skin side. Continue cook- 
ing, turning and basting often. Allow about 45 minutes in all. To test for 
doneness, cut into thick part of drumstick. If it cuts easily and no pink is 
visible, chicken is done. Brush pieces with sauce before serving. Serves 4. 


OVEN FRIED CHICKEN 


Disjoint 1 large or 2 small fryers. Select a pan that is just large enough 
to accommodate the chicken without overlapping any of the pieces. In the 
pan melt 3 tablespoons butter. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Mix to- 
gether 14 cup flour, 2 teaspoons dry mustard, 1 teaspoon Paprika, 1 tea- 
spoon black pepper and 114 teaspoons salt. Put this into q paper bag mix 
and toss the chicken pieces in one at a time. Lay the floured chicken pieces 
in the pan without overlapping and turn in the butter just once. Dot small 


POULTRY AND GAME 13] 


pieces of butter over the chicken. Bake 35 minutes for small chickens, 45 
minutes for large. Turn the chickens over once during this time. Then turn 
the oven to very hot, 450 degrees, and bake 10 to 15 minutes longer or until 
the chicken is golden brown and bubbly. 


NEW ENGLAND CHICKEN CASSEROLE 


3 to 4 Ib. roasting chicken 3 carrots 

14 cup flour 24 small white onions 
14 cup butter or margarine 114 teaspoons sugar 
2 teaspoons salt 12 mushrooms 

14 teaspoon pepper 2 cups heavy cream 


Disjoint chicken and coat with flour. Melt 14, cup butter or margarine in 
a large skillet. Add chicken along with 1 teaspoon salt and 14 teaspoon pep- 
per. Fry until golden brown on all sides. Transfer to a casserole. 

Start your oven at 350 degrees. Cut carrots in thin slices and cook in a 
little boiling salted water until tender. Drain and add to chicken. Toss 
peeled whole onions in 2 tablespoons melted butter or margarine and cook 
until they begin to brown slightly, sprinkle sugar over onions and continue 
cooking until onions look caramelized. Shake the pan frequently so that 
onions toss around and glaze evenly. Now add onions to chicken. Lastly 
cook mushrooms in remaining 2 tbsps. butter or margarine until lightly brown- 
ed. Toss in with the chicken. Sprinkle in remaining salt and pepper. Heat 
cream in the same skillet you used for the chicken and pour over chicken 
combination. Cover and bake 114 hours. Delicious served with rice or tiny 
new potatoes, new peas and hot biscuits! 


PLANTATION CHICKEN DINNER 


3-Ib. frying chicken, cut into pieces 1 clove garlic, minced 


4 cup flour 3 carrots, sliced 

14 teaspoon salt 3 stalks celery, sliced 

14 teaspoon pepper 2 8-oz. cans tomato sauce 

4, cup cooking oil 1 cup water 

14 cup chopped onion 14 teaspoon basil 

14 cup chopped green pepper 114 cups elbow macaroni, uncooked 


Sprinkle chicken with mixture of flour, salt and pepper. Brown in heated 
oil in heavy skillet. Remove from pan. In same pan, saute lightly onion, 
green pepper, and garlic. Add remaining ingredients, except macaroni, and 
simmer 10 minutes.. Put macaroni in large, lightly greased casserole. 
Cover with chicken. Pour skillet sauce mixture over all. Cover and bake in 
moderate oven (325 degrees) for 1 to 114 hours or until chicken and vege- 
tables are tender. Makes about 4 servings. 


32 POULTRY AND GAME 


SCALLOPED CHICKEN 


1 3-Ib. hen 1 can mushrooms 
2 tablespoons butter 2 eggs 
2 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 


1 pint rich milk 


Boil the chicken and cut it up. Melt the butter and flour together and add 
the milk gradually, stirring constantly until the mixture thickens. Put in the 
chicken, mushrooms, the beaten egg yolks; add salt and pepper to taste. Let 
it cook 10 minutes, then add Worcestershire sauce and beaten egg whites. 
Allow to cook 10 more minutes and serve very hot. 


SMOTHERED CHICKEN 
2 broiler-fryer chickens, 3 to 4 lbs. Dash pepper 


each 1 cup chicken stock 
4 small onions 2 tablespoons flour 
Y, cup butter or margarine 14 cup cream 


1 teaspoon salt 


Cut chicken in serving pieces; peel onions but leave whole. Melt 3 table- 
spoons butter or margarine in a large skillet or Dutch oven, toss in the onions 
and cook about 5 minutes. Now add the chicken pieces (lift the onions on 
top of them), sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover tightly and cook over a high 
heat for about 10 minutes or until chicken turns golden brown. Pour in 
stock or bouillon mixture, reduce heat, cover and cook slowly for 1 to 1144, 
hours or until tender. 

Transfer chicken to serving platter and keep it warm while you make the 
gravy. Work flour and remaining butter or margarine together until smooth. 
Add to chicken stock and cook, Stirring constantly, until gravy bubbles. Add 
the cream, heat but don’t boil and pour over chickens. Serves 6. 


SOUTHERN FRIED CHICKEN 


Select 2 two-lb. chickens, disjoint them. Rinse well, sprinkle with salt and 
black pepper, dredge well with flour. Have fat 1 inch deep in skillet, when 
very hot add chicken. Cover and reduce heat. Cook until brown on both 
sides and tender. 


BAKED DOVE 
4 doves 2 teaspoans bacon drippings 
4 teaspoons salt 1 orange sliced 


4 teaspoons butter 


Dress doves. Wash well, split down back; rub in salt and pepper. Dip in 
melted butter and bacon drippings. Rollin flour. Place in roasting pan and 
cook for 1 hour at 350 degrees. Baste frequently with butter and drippings 
Put sliced orange in gravy just before serving. . 


POULTRY AND GAME los 


BARBECUED RABBIT 
2 rabbits, dressed 


Boil in salt water (enough to cover) with 1 stalk of celery, 1 sliced medium 
size onion for 30 minutes. Discard the liquid. Put in broiler pan on rack 
uncovered. Make barbecue sauce as follows and baste the rabbit frequently 
until done. 


Barbecue Sauce: 


1 cup vinegar 14 pimento pepper, chopped 
1 stick butter 14 cup chili sauce 
1 teaspoon salt 


Combine all ingredients in saucepan. Baste rabbit frequently with this. 


BRAISED DUCK 


1 good sized duck 1 bay leaf 

4 lb. fat pork 14 cup chopped parsley 
1 carrot, diced Dash of salt 

1 medium onion, sliced Dash cayenne pepper 


Cut the pork in small pieces and fry; add the vegetables, bay leaf and pars- 
ley and cook 5 minutes. Cut up the duck and cook in the fat until brown. 
Put in a casserole or baking dish, pour the fat and vegetables over it and add 
3 cups of boiling water. Cover tightly and cook until tender; adding more 
water if necessary. Remove the duck from baking dish and thicken gravy 
with 2 tbsp. flour and 2 tbsp. butter rubbed smoothly together. Season with 
1 tbsp. worcestershire sauce. Serve with currant jelly and applesauce. 


BROILED QUAIL 


Prepare one bird for each guest. Dress quail, split down back. Rub over 
lightly with salt. Put on rack in broiler pan, skin side up. Melt 14 stick 
of butter and baste the quail. Cook in oven 350 degrees 15 minutes. Turn 
flesh side up; baste with butter and cook 15 minutes more. 


PHEASANT DELIGHT 


Boil 1 pheasant until tender; remove from heat, cool and dice. Make the 
following sauce: 1 tablespoon butter melted in double boiler; blend in 1 table- 
spoon flour, 44 cup claret wine, 1 tablespoon worcestershire sauce, salt and 
pepper, | teaspoon paprika. Blend all together and add the diced pheasant; 
simmer slowly for 10 minutes. Serve over slices of crisp hot toast. 


134 POULTRY AND GAME 


CANTON MONTMORENCY 
1 4-Ib. to 5 Ib. ready to cook duck- 1 cup raw wild rice 


ling, quartered 14 cup butter or margarine 
Duckling giblets and neck 14 cup minced onion 
T No. 3 can pitted, dark sweet 3 tablespoons flour 

cherries, drained 1 tablespoon meat-extract paste 
34, Cup port wine 3 tablespoons currant jelly 


I. Start heating oven to 350 degrees. Wash and dry duckling; remove any 
pin-feathers. In shallow open roasting pan, roast duckling (uncovered 
without rack, skin side up) 114 hours or until tender. 

2. Make duckling broth by simmering giblets (omitting liver) and neck with 
2 cups water, covered about 114 hours. 

3. Also marinate cherries in 14 cup wine. 

4. About 1 hour before serving, wash rice well in 3 changes of cold water. 
Then add slowly to 4 cups boiling water. Boil, covered, stirring occasion- 
ally about 45 minutes, or till rice is tender and water is absorbed. Add 
2 tbsp. butter. 

3. When done, remove duckling from roasting pan to serving platter. Pour 
drippings from pan; in pan, melt 2 tbsp. butter, add onion; cook Stirring 
until tender; remove from heat. Stir in flour, meat-extract paste, currant 
jelly, 144 cups strained duckling broth, 14 cup wine. Cook stirring, over 
medium heat, until thickened. Add cherries in wine. 

6. Serve duckling on wild rice, with sauce poured over. Makes 4 servings. 


“POSSUM AND TATERS” 


| opossum dressed. Parboil in salt water with 2 tablespoons of vinegar 
and | small onion diced and 1 stalk of celery for 1 hour. Remove opossum 
from parboil water and discard the liquid. Put opossum in roaster pan, 
sprinkle with flour, salt and pepper. Dot with butter and bake at 350° until 
tender. Baste with butter and bacon drippings. Bake 4 medium sweet pota- 
toes, cut in half lengthwise and serve as a garnish with the possum. Make 
gravy in the roasting pan. Serve over “‘possum and taters’’. 


ROAST DUCK 
1 4 or 5 Ib. dram duck 4 cup minced onion 
4 cups toasted bread cubes 1 teaspoon salt 
14 cup minced celery Dash black pepper 
’4 cup minced green pepper 1 tablespoon ground sage 


Dress duck; rub inside with salt; combine remaining ingredients for stuf¢- 
ing. Stuff cavities, neck pocket; tie legs together. Place breast side up on 
rack in open roasting pan. Do not grease. Add no water. Do not cover 
Roast in 325° oven about 40 minutes per Ib. To test for doneness grasp end 
of leg bone. If thigh bone moves easily, duck is done. Do not prick with 
fork; this allows juice to escape. Serves 4. 


| 


POULTRY AND GAME 135 


ROAST GOOSE 


Preferably get a goose that has been dressed and drawn and hung up for 
days and nights. Wash the goose and remove the black film from the inside; 
rub well with salt. Put goose in roaster after filling cavity with 2 cups sliced 
apples, 2 stalks celery cut up fine and 1 medium size onion and 2 tablespoons 
vinegar. Let boil for 1 hour. While goose is boiling, make the following 
stuffing: 


3 cups toasted bread cubes 1 cup chopped celery 

2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons bacon drippings 
2 eggs beaten Enough hot water to combine in- 
1 cup chopped onion gredients 


Remove goose from roaster; discard the parboil mixture. Stuff the goose 
with the dressing; put back in roaster without any liquid, but baste with 
butter and cook until when leg is pulled it moves easily—the goose is then 
done. If there is any dressing left, make in patties and serve around goose. 
Make gravy with a little browned flour dissolved in water and put in the roast- 
er drippings. Cook until thick enough. Spiced crabapples are nice to serve 
with goose! 


te 


ROAST TURKEY 


Temperature Time Chart: 8-10 Ibs. 17 minutes per Ib. 12-15 Ibs. 15 min- 
utes per Ib. If meat thermometer is used, turkey is done when 200° F. regis- 
ters on thermometer. 

If turkey is frozen, let thaw completely before cooking. Rub inside of 
turkey well with salt and fill with stuffing, truss and wrap in aluminum foil. 
Put in roaster. Do not cover and cook according to chart above. 45 minutes 
before turkey is done remove aluminum foil; return to oven and brown thor- 
oughly. Select from the following dressings: 


Bread Stuffing: 


114 loaves pullman bread, toasted Enough stock made from cooked 
and cubed neck and giblets to soften the 

1 medium sized onion, chopped fine bread cubes 

2 cups finely diced celery 2 beaten eggs 


Salt and pepper to taste 
1 stick of butter 


Oyster Stuffing: 


Use same amount of bread and other ingredients in bread stuffing and add 
1 pint of oysters. 


136 POULTRY AND GAME 


arc 


Chestnut Stuffing: 


114 Ibs. French chestnuts 2 eggs, well beaten 

1 stick butter 1 cup turkey stock 

3 cups toasted bread crumbs Salt and pepper fo taste 
1 cup milk 


Make any left over dressing into patties and use as garnish for turkey. 


SMOTHERED SQUIRREL 


Dress squirrels, 1 for 4 guests. Parboil 15 minutes. Roll in flour, dip in 
melted butter; place in uncovered roaster; add 14 cup water, 1 teaspoon salt. 
Cook at 400° for 30 minutes. Baste with butter often. Turn each piece 
until slightly browned. 


STUFFED SQUAB 


4 squabs 2 tablespoons vinegar 

2 tablespoons butter 14 cup chopped celery 

2 cups bread cubes, toasted 1 tablespoon salt 

1 cup chopped onions 14 teaspoon black pepper 


1 cup water 


Cut giblets in small pieces and boil with onions and celery for 15 minutes. 
Moisten bread cubes with vinegar; add to giblet mixture. Stuff squabs. 
Brush with butter and sprinkle with flour and paprika. Place in covered 
roaster and bake 45 minutes at 425° F., reduce heat to 400° and bake 30 
minutes longer. Baste frequently. Delicious served with asparagus and 
tomato salad! 


TURKEY HASH 


2 or 3 cups left-over turkey 2 boiled eggs, chopped 
Make stock from turkey bones 14 teaspoon onion salt 
1 can celery soup 1 can sliced mushrooms (optional) 


Put all ingredients in heavy saucepan. Cook 15 minutes or until thickened. 
Serve on rice or tosted bread. 


TURKEY INDIENNE 


Saute 14 cup chopped green pepper in 2 tbsp. shortening. Blend in 2 tbsp 
flour, 4 tsp. curry powder (optional), 1 can onion soup, 14 cup water Cook 
slowly till thick; stir constantly. Add 2 cups diced cooked turkey, 4 oz can 
sliced mushrooms. Simmer 10 minutes. Serve over rice. Makes 4 servings 


POULTRY AND GAME bes 


TURKEY SHORTCAKE 


Combine | can Cream of Chicken soup with 14, cup milk, 1 cup finely diced 
cooked turkey, 44 cup cooked green peas, and 1 tablespoon chopped pimento. 
Cook over moderate heat stirring occasionally. Serve over split and buttered 
biscuits. Makes 4 servings. 


TURKEY PILAF 


14 cup butter 2 cups chicken bouillon 

1 medium onion, thinly sliced 2 cups diced cooked turkey 

1 teaspoon salt 14 cup shredded sharp cheese 

1 cup raw regular rice 4 cup thinly sliced green pepper 


14 teaspoon pepper 


Cook onion in butter in a skillet until golden. Add rice, salt and pepper to 
skillet and cook slowly for 3 minutes, stirring. Add bouillon and bring to a 
boil. Add turkey. Cover and cook over low heat or turn into a casserole, 
cover and bake in a 375 degree oven for 30 minutes or until rice is tender. 
Remove and stir in cheese and green pepper. Return to ovn and cook 15 
minutes longer. Makes 6 servings. 


MEATS 


eed 
—————_— 


BEEF 
BARBECUED MEAT LOAF 
114 Ibs. ground beef 2 cans Tomato Sauce 
1 cup fresh bread crumbs 14 cup water 
1 onion, finely chopped 3 tbsp. vinegar 
1 egg 3 tbsp. brown sugar 
114 tsp. salt 2 tsp. Worcestershire 


14 tsp. pepper 


Mix together beef, crumbs, onion, beaten egg, salt, pepper and 14 can 
tomato sauce. Form into loaf and put in shallow pan, about 7 x 10 inches. 
Combine the rest of the sauce and all other ingredients. Pour over loaf. Bake 
in moderate oven (350° F.) 1 hour and 15 minutes. Baste occasionally. 
Makes 4 to 6 servings. 


BEEF A-LA-STROGANOFF 


(Russian) 
1 Ib. round steak cut 3, in. thick 1 tsp. salt 
2 tbsp. melted fat Ve tsp. pepper (black) 
4 tbsp. flour 214 cups sour cream 


1 8-oz. can mushrooms, sliced 


Cut steak in 1 inch cubes, dredge well with flour, salt and pepper. Saute 
in shortening in heavy frying pan until well browned. Add sour cream, stir- 
ring in gradually; cover, simmer | hour until tender. Add mushrooms, bring- 
ing gravy toa boil. Serves 6. 


BRESLAU OF BEEF 


2 cups cold, chopped beef 1 cup cream 

1 cup stock 1 tbsp. parsley 
2 tbsp. butter Salt and pepper 
1 cup bread curmbs Yolks of 3 eggs 


Beat the eggs and chop the parsley; then mix all the ingredients thoroughly. 
Brush custard cups with melted butter. Press the beef mixture into them 


Partly fill a shallow pan with boiling water. Stand the cups in this and bake 
for 3 min., or until firm in the center. 


138 


MEATS 139 





BRUNSWICK STEW 


Boil | 4-lb. hen until tender; cut chicken in 14 in. cubes. Save the stock. 


Cook one beef soup bone until meat is tender. 


cut the meat fine. 


2 cans tomatoes 

2 cups cubed white potatoes 

1 cup chopped celery 

2 cups small green butter beans 
2 cups onions, chopped fine 


Remove from heat; cool and 


2 cups small grain corn 

1 tbsp. salt 

2 tbsp. black pepper 

1 cup tomato catsup 

1 tbsp. worcestershire sauce 


Put the stock from chicken and beef bones in a heavy pot. Add the chick- 
en, beef, and all other ingredients except the corn. Cook over low heat, stir- 
ring constantly or it will scorch, which would ruin the stew. When quite thick 
add the corn, cook 10 minutes longer and serve while hot. 


Corn bread, hush puppies, crackers or rolls is nice to serve with the Stew. 


CHILI CON CARNE 


3 cups kidney or pink beans 

2 qts. cold water 

1 Ib. ground chuck, neck, round, 
or rump beef 

14 cup salad oil or fat 

2 cups minced onion 


Wash beans; pick over, and soak in cold water overnight. 


1 minced, peeled clove garlic 
2 tbsp. salt 

4 tsp. cayenne pepper 

4 tsp. chili powder 

1 No. 214 can tomatoes 


Cover, and 


bring to boil in same water. Then reduce heat and simmer until beans are 


easily pureed with a fork—about 30 minutes. 
minced onion, garlic, tomatoes, chili powder, cayenne pepper, salt. 
over slow heat 1] hour or until tender. 


Add ground beef, salad oil, 
Cook 


CHILI STEW 


1 cup sliced onions 

1 clove garlic 

2 medium sized green peppers 

4 tbsp. hot bacon drippings or 
olive oil 

1 Ib. ground beef 

1 No. 2 can red kidney beans 


1 No. 2 can tomatoes 
114 tsp. salt 

14 tsp. black pepper 
14 tsp. celery salt 
Dash cayenne pepper 
14 tsp. chili powder 


Cook onion, garlic and green pepper in hot fat until soft. Add meat; stir 
antil brown and crumbly. Add vegetables and seasonings. Simmer 14 hour. 


Stir occasionally. Serves 6 to 8. 


140 MEATS 


CREAMED DRIED BEEF 


1% lb. dried beef 1 tbsp. flour 
2 tbsp. butter 1 egg 
1 cup milk. 4 tbsp. grated cheese 


1 can mushroom soup 


Place the butter and milk in a small frying pan. When hot add the mush- 
room soup and beef shredded. Cook 3 min. Rub the flour smooth in a small 
amount of milk, add a dash of pepper and the grated cheese. Stir this into 
the beef. As soon as it thickens, reduce the heat and add the well-beaten egg. 
The hot sauce will cook the egg. Make a mound of 2 cups of hot cooked rice 
and spread over this 2 cups of hot diced buttered carrots. Pour the creamed 
beef mixture around this. 


DEVILED SWISS STEAK 


Mix 1 tbsp. dry mustard with 14 cup flour. Pound into a 114 pound 1-inch 
thick piece of top round steak. Season with salt and pepper. Brown on both 
sides ina little fat. Place inasmall roaster. Pour over it 1 cup sliced onions, 
1 carrot, diced, 144 cups canned tomatoes, 2 tbsp. worcestershire sauce and 
1 tbsp. brown sugar. Cover. Bake in moderately slow oven (325° F.) about 
1144 hours. Serves six. 


FILET MIGNON 


A Filet Mignon is a slice cut from a tenderloin of beef. It should be cut at 
least an inch thick as it is broiled or pan-broiled just as a steak. Broil or pan- 
broil from 15 to 20 minutes, depending on the thickness. When done, ar- 
range on a hot platter and cover each filet with soft butter to which has been 
added | tsp. parsley, 1 tsp. chopped olives, and 1 tsp. lemon juice for each 
tablespoon of butter. 


FILLET OF BEEF WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE 


A 3-pound fillet will serve 6 to 8 persons. Lard upper side of fillet with a 
larding needle. This is done by filling the needle with strips of salt pork 
about 2 inches long and ¥% inch wide and running the pork in rows about an 
inch apart with the grain of the meat. The larding may be done at the mar- 
ket. In the bottom of a roasting pan put 1 small onion, 1 carrot, 1 stalk 
celery, cut in small pieces. Add 4 cloves, 14 bay leaf, 3 peppercorns and lf 
cup of water in which has been dissolved ] tsp. salt. Place fillet in pan dnd 
cook for 30 to 40 min., basting frequently. More boiling water may be added 
if necessary. Serve with the following sauce: ‘ i 


2 tablespoons butter Dash of salt 
2 tablespoons drippings 2 cups brown stock, or 


4 tablespoons flour 2 cu e 
ps water with 2 tsp, 
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 can mushrooms se poehextiace 


MEATS 14] 





FRENCH STEW 


Pour | cup red wine, 14, cup brandy and 2 tbsp. olive oil into a covered 
china dish. Marinate in refrigerator for 24 hours in this liquid 3 Ibs. beef 
shank, cubed, 1% Ib. salt pork cubed, 2 onions, sliced, 2 carrots, diced, 1 clove 
of garlic, ] sizeable piece of celery, 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley, ] bay leaf, a pinch 
of thyme, salt and pepper to taste and a pinch of sugar. 

Next day saute in a heavy saucepan with 2 tbsp. olive oil—first salt pork 
until lightly browned, then the beef and finally add the vegetables. Cook 
over low heat for 2 hours. It may be necessary to add a little water. 

Next saute lightly a large can of mushrooms in 2 tbsp. olive oil and add to 
stew, along with 2 dozen pitted green olives and | large can of tomatoes. 
Again cover and cook slowly for 1 hour more. 

Serve over cooked noodles along with lettuce salad and french bread. 
Serves 6. 


GRILLED SHORT RIBS OF BEEF 


5 to 6 Ibs. short ribs of beef, 14 cup soy sauce 
cut in 3-inch pieces 1 tablespoon sugar 
114 cups salad oil 1 clove garlic, crushed 


Lay short ribs close together in a flat baking pan. Combine salad oil, soy 
sauce, sugar and garlic. Pour mixture over meat; turn meat to coat evenly. 
Cover and let stand in refrigerator 24 to 48 hours. Turn meat several times. 
When ready to cook, drain meat; reserve marinade. Place meat on grill over 
hot coals and cook slowly on both sides until browned and tender, about 40 to 
50 min. Baste occasionally with some of the marinade. Serves 8. 


HUNGARIAN GOULASH 


2 Ibs. boneless beef (chuck) 1 tsp. marjoram 

4 tbsp. flour 34, tsp. paprika 

2 tbsp. fat 114 pints beef stock 
4 clove garlic 34, cup tomato puree 
1 medium Bermuda onion 14 tbsp. salt 

3/4, tsp. caraway seeds 1, tsp. pepper 


1% bay leaf 


Cut beef into 114 in. cubes; roll in flour, and brown in fat. Chop garlic 
and onions and add to meat. Saute 10 min. Soak caraway seeds in hot water 
14 hour; drain. Tie bay leaf, caraway seeds and marjoram into muslin bag 
and add to meat. Add paprika, beef stock, tomato puree, salt, and pepper. 
Cover and simmer 214 hours. Skim off fat with spoon, and thin gravy with 
water if necessary. Serve over noodles. Serves six. 


142 MEATS 





ITALIAN BEEF PATTIES 


Blend together lightly 1 Ib. ground beef, 1 slightly beaten egg, 14, cup 
finely chopped green pepper, 1 small minced garlic clove, 1 tsp. oregano, | 
tsp. salt, dash of pepper, 14 tsp. Worcestershire sauce, 14 cup biscuit mix 
and 14 cup tomato juice. Shape into patties and cook over hot charcoal until 
done, turning only once. Place on buns and sprinkle with parmesian cheese. 

Serve with big platter of antipasto salad made of green pepper rings, 
tomato wedges, spring onions, strips of swiss cheese, celery and carrot sticks, 
ripe and green olives and anchovies on lettuce. Serve with olive oil and wine 
vinegar to pour over the top. Top off the litalian style meal with fresh fruit! 


MEAT LOAF 
1 lb. ground beef 14 sweet bell pepper, chopped 
Salt and pepper 1 cup chopped celery 
1 cup chopped onions 14 cup chopped sweet pickle 
1 egg 14 cup tomato catsup 
2 cups bread crumbs, moistened 2 tsp. ground mustard 


with water 


Mix well all ingredients; put in greased loaf pan and bake at 400° F. about 
30 minutes. 


RICH HAMBURGER LOAF 


4 Ib. salt pork 14 cup tomato catsup 

T small onion 1 teaspoon prepared mustard 
4 sprigs parsley 14 teaspoon marjoram 

2 eggs 4 teaspoon thyme 

2 Ibs. lean ground beef 2 teaspoons salt 

14 cup dry bread crumbs 4 teaspoon black pepper 


14 cup prepared horseradish 


Cook the salt pork in a little boiling water for about 5 min., then drain off 
the water and grind or chop salt pork very fine. Grate the onion, chop parsley 
fine, beat the eggs slightly. 

Now mix all ingredients for the loaf (including ground salt pork) in a large 
mixing bowl. Pat mixture into a loaf shape and put it into a shallow greased 
baking pan. Start oven at 350° F. or moderate. 

Mix up a sauce using 14, cup tomato juice and 14 cup bouillon or meat 
stock. Pour this over loaf. Put a bay leaf, 4 sprigs of celery tops, a smal! 
onion cut in half, a small clove of garlic chopped fine in the with the loaf 
Top loaf with 4 strips of bacon and bake 1 hour. Baste occasionally with the 
sauce during baking period. 

At dinnertime, transfer meat loaf to a hot serving platter. Spoon a little 
of the excess fat off the sauce and thicken with a smooth mixture of 14 cu 
bouillon or meat stock and 2 tbsp. flour. Cook, stirring constantly, until ane 
thickens. Pour over loaf and serve to 6. 


MEATS 143 


ROAST BEEF 


Buy a standing 2-rib roast (less doesn’t roast well). Remove meat from 
refrigerator about 30 minutes before roasting to allow it to come to room tem- 
perative. Place in a shallow roasting pan, fat side up, insert meat thermom- 
eter if you have one and then sprinkle meat with salt and pepper. 

Start oven at 325° F. or slow and roast the beef without a cover, without 
water, without basting or turning until the thermometer reaches the degree 
of doneness you like: 140F rare, 160F medium, 170F well done. Without a 
thermometer allow 20 minutes per pound for rare, 27 minutes per pound for 
medium, 33 minutes per pound for well-done. Serves 6. 


ROAST SIRLOIN OF BEEF 


Wipe Sirloin tip of beef off with damp cloth, do not wash, and rub with 
salt. Put in roaster on rack; cook by meat thermometer or 300°F. until the 
type of roast you desire is done—that is, rare, medium, or well-done—20 min. 
per Ib. is the most popular timed roast. Remove roast to hot platter; make 
gravy in water from juices dropped from roast. Cook carrots, onions and 
potatoes separately. Garnish roast with these vegetables with the gravy poured 
over them. 


SALISBURY STEAK 
1 Ib. chopped beef 14 cup cream 
1 teaspoon salt Fresh bread crumbs 


4 teaspoon pepper 


Mix beef with seasonings and cream, form lightly into individual steaks or 
into 1 large steak. Coat lightly with crumbs and broil 6 to 8 min. in oven, 
_ turning once; or in hot frying pan, turning frequently. Place on hot platter. 
To fat in frying pan add 14 cup boiling water, bring to boiling point and pour 
over steak. 


SAVORY SMOKED TONGUE 


l, smoked beef tongue (about 3 1 onion, sliced 
Ibs.) 2 tbsp. sugar . 
4 cup vinegar 2 bay leaves 
12 whole cloves 1 tbsp. worcestershire sauce 


Wash tongue, put in kettle and cover with cold water; bring to a boil and 
pour off water. Then add enough cold water to cover two-thirds of the tongue. 
Add other ingredients; cover and simmer for 314 hours or until tongue is 
tender. Remove from heat. Cool in liquid. Remove skin; chill and cut in 


thin slices. 


144 MEATS 


SHORT RIBS OF BEEF 


In a hot frying pan brown all sides of 4 pounds of short ribs of beef. Place 
in a large casserole; add 2 slices of onion; sprinkle well with salt and pepper; 
Cook slowly in the oven for three hours. Remove to a platter; thicken the 
liquid in the casserole, using 114 tablespoons flour to each cup of liquid in 
the casserole; pour around the beef; add boiled potatoes, beets, turnips, car- 
rots, peas and browned onions. The beets, turnips, and carrots should be 
diced or cut with vegetable cutter. 


SPAGHETTI (ITALIAN) 


4 tbsp. butter 4 cans Spanish sauce or tomato 

4 tbsp. olive oil paste 

2 tbps. chopped parsley 2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

4 medium chopped onions 2 pounds ground beef 

4 cloves chopped garlic 2 pounds Italian spaghetti, long 
2 small cans tomato puree and very thin 


Cook first five ingredients together until onions are soft; add tomato ppree, 
Spanish sauce or tomato paste, and Worcestershire sauce; bring to boiling. 
Fry meat until well browned and add. Simmer over very low heat three hours. 
Cook spaghetti in boiling, salted water; rinse with hot water and drain. Put 
on warm serving platter or individual plates, pour sauce over top and sprinkle 
with grated Parmesan cheese. (Serves 8.) 


SPECIAL CHOW MEIN 
3/4, Ib. lean veal cutlet 4 cup water 
34 lb. lean beef round steak 2 tbsp. molasses 
2 tbsp. salad oil 14 tsp. dry mustard 
4 large ribs celery, cut thin 14 tsp. ground ginger 


2 small onions, cut into small strips 1 5-oz. can water chestnuts, sliced 
1 small green pepper, cut into thin 1 1-Ib. can bean sprouts 
strips 1 5-0z. can bamboo shoots 


2 tbsp. cornstarch 1 4-oz. can button mushrooms 
4 cup soy sauce 


Cut meats into strips about 2 inches long and half inch wide. Cook in 
salad oil until lightly browned. Add celery, onion and green pepper. Cook 
a few minutes longer. Blend cornstarch with soy sauce, water, molasses 
mustard and ginger and stir into mixture. Add undrained chestnuts bean 
sprouts, at shoots and mushrooms. Cook covered. over low heat 20 
min. or until meats are tender. Serve with rice and chow i 
Makes 4 large servings. mastawnoodles: 

For chicken and veal chow mein, omit beef and 

: : 1 add 2 cups coo j 
cut into slivers but do not brown the chicken with the veal. i erga 


MEATS 145 


SUKIYAKI (JAPAN) 


2 Ibs. thinly sliced beef 2 medium cans bean sprouts 
2 large bunches green onions 4 tbsp. sugar 

1 medium bunch celery Salt to taste 

Large piece of beef suet 14 tsp. black pepper 


1 cup soy sauce 


Wash and slice onions and celery. Put suet in large heavy saucepan 
(covered) and fry out fat. Add meat and stir until partially browned; then 
put in soy sauce, salt and pepper. Add onions and celery. Cook for about 
15 min. or until tender, then add undrained bean sprouts; cook for 5 min. 
more. Dip vegetables and meat out of liquid. Serve over hot rice, which has 
already been prepared. Serve liquid as gravy. 


SWEETBREADS WITH BROWN BUTTER 


Simmer sweetbreads about 20 min. in boiling salted water to which a little 
vinegar has been added (1 tablespoon vinegar per quart of water). Drain and 
cover with cold water. Drain thoroughly. Cut sweetbreads into nuggets 
about the size of plump oysters and cook until golden in a little butter in a 
heavy skillet. Remove sweetbreads from skillet and arronge on slices of hot 
toast. Sprinkle swettbreads with salt and pepper. Add additional butter to 
skillet and cook over medium heat until browned. Add the juice of a lemon, 
heat and pour immediately over sweetbreads. 


SWEETBREADS en BROCHETTE 


\4 Ib. veal sweetbreads 1% tsp. salt 

12 small mushrooms lf, tsp. pepper 

3 tbsp. fresh, frozen or canned 4 cup melted butter or margarine 
lemon juice Snipped parsley 


1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 


1. Day before: Drop sweetbreads into boiling water (salted); simmer, cover- 
ed, 25min. Then place them in cold water; remove membranes and veins. 
Cut into 12 chunks; refrigerate, covered. 

2. Meanwhile, remove stems from mushrooms. Place mushroom caps in 
bowl; combine lemon juice, Worcestershire, salt and pepper; pour over 
mushrooms; refrigerate, tossing occasionally. 

3. About 30 min. before dinner: Preheat broiler 10 min. or as mfg. directs. 
Roll up each bacon slice. On each of 3 10” skewers, string sweetbread 
chunks, mushroom caps, then bacon rolls; in shallow open pan arrange 
side by side; brush with some butter. Broil 6” from heat, often turning 
and brushing with butter, 15 to 20 min. or until sweetbreads are golden 
and mushrooms done. Pour on remaining butter; sprinkle with parsley. 


Makes 2 servings. 


146 MEATS 


SWEETBREADS WITH LIVER 


2 Ibs. calf’s liver 1 can mushrooms, sliced 
1 Ib. sweetbreads 4 Ib. butter 
1% ib. chicken liver 


Parboil the sweetbreads and set aside; cook the liver in a hot skillet with 
14 cup olive oil, turn liver with spatula, cook 8 min. Place on a platter ina 
warm place. Now put the chicken livers in the hot skillet, then the chopped 
sweetbreads, then the mushrooms, a dab of Worcestershire sauce, minced 
parsley, speak of garlic, salt and pepper to taste. Cook 10 min.; pour over 
the liver, piping hot! 


SWISS STEAK DINNER 


114 pounds round steak 114 tsp. salt 

About 3 tbsp. flour 4 tsp. pepper 

2 tbsp. shortening 1 clove garlic, minced 

1 onion, chopped 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
34, cup chili sauce 1 No. 2 can whole onions 
114 cups tomato juice | 1 No. 2 can whole potatoes 


Preheat skillet at 6 (425”F). Cut steak into serving pieces. Dredge with 
flour and pound flour into steak with a mallet. Heat shortening in skillet and 
brown meat on both sides. Combine onion, chili sauce, tomato juice, salt, 
pepper, garlic and worcestershire and pour over meat. Reduce heat to 21% 
(212”F). Cover and cook 114, hours. Drain onions and potatoes. Add to 
steak in skillet. Cover and cook 15 minutes. Serves 4 generously. 


BROWN STEW OF LAMB 


2 Ibs. lamb 2 tbsp. bacon drippings 
2 onions, medium size 14 tbsp. flour 
2 carrots | 114 pints of water or stock 


2 stalks of celery Salt and pepper to taste 


Cut the lamb in pieces convenient for serving. 
the carrots; wash and scrape the celery. Melt the dri 


ings i é 
pan, fry the meat golden brown on both sides: put nF Se Pa eee 


: n the flour and brown i 
also. Add the stock or water and stir until it boils; then put in the lamb us 


prepared vegetables. Season to taste and cook slow! f 
AAAS or about 
may take a little less cooking time—that wil! berate the Peat ee 


Peel the onions; scrape 


MEATS 147 


CURRIED LAMB WITH MACARONI 


1 Ib. lamb shoulder 2 tbsp. flour 

14 Ib. macaroni 2 tbsp. curry powder 
2 cups milk 1 tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter 4 tsp. pepper 


Have shoulder of lamb cut as for stewing. Brown in a hot skillet, add a 
small amount of water, cover and cook slowly until tender. Cook macaroni 
until tender in boiling salted water; drain and rinse in cold water. Melt the 
butter in a saucepan, add flour, curry powder, salt and pepper and blend 
thoroughly. Add the milk gradually, stirring constantly; cook until the sauce 
is slightly thickened and of a creamy consistency. Into a buttered casserole 
put first a layer of macaroni, then one of lamb and curry sauce. Repeat until 
all is used. Cover and bake in a moderate oven for about 1 hour. 


LAMB BRETONNE 


1 cup white beans 1 small can tomatoes 
14 tsp. salt 14 cup left-over gravy 
1 small onion Cold roast lamb 


2 tbsp. lamb fat 


Soak beans in water to cover, drain, cook in boiling salted water until ten- 
der, and drain again. Chop onion and cook 5 min. in lamb fat. Drain canned 
tomatoes and rub 14 cup of the pulp through a sieve. Save juice for soup or 
stew. Add strained pulp to the onion with left-over gravy. Stir until it boils, 
add the beans and when thoroughly hot, serve in the center of a platter. Cut 
cold roast lamb in slices and heat for 5 min. in lamb gravy. Serve around the 
mound of beans and garnish with parsley or celery tips. 


LAMB CHOP BROIL 


6 loin lamb chops cut 1” thick 5 tsp. mint jelly 

3 tomatoes, halved Salt, pepper 

1, cup chopped onion Canned whole kernel corn 
6 pear halves Parsley 


Parmesan cheese 


Drain pear halves thoroughly. Brush lightly with melted butter. Brush 
tomato halves with butter. Spread 1 tsp. chopped onion on each half, season 
with salt an dpepper; sprinkle with grated cheese. Arrange lamb chops in 
-wo rows down center of broiling rack. Place corn in broiling pan. Place pan 
5n oven rack 3 inches from broiling unit. Switch to broil. Broil chops for 8 
min. and turn. Arrange tomatoes on either side of chops. Arrange pear 
halves alongside tomatoes. Continue broiling 9 min. Remove to serving 


latter. Place 14 tsp. mint jelly in hollow of pear. Garnish. Serve. 


148 MEATS 


———————$——$— 


CURRY OF LAMB 


5 or 6 Ib. leg of lamb 2 cans mushrooms 
1 clove garlic 14 tbsp. curry 

1 medium onion, diced 2 tbsp. water 

2 tbsp. butter 2 tsp. salt 

2 stalks celery, diced 1 tsp. black pepper 


First Day: Cut narrow gashes in roast, insert small bits of garlic. Bake leg 
of lamb in open roaster at 350” until the meat starts to brown; salt and pepper 
that side and turn it over; adding more garlic if desired and small amount of 
water. Bake in open roaster until this side browns. Add other half of salt 
and pepper and cup of water. Bake until meat is tender. When cool place 
in refrigerator. Save all juice in roaster. 


Second Day: Cut up lamb as desired. Brown onions in melted butter, add 
celery, and mushrooms; let simmer to blend. Thicken pan juice as for a thin 
gravy and combine onions and mushrooms mixture; heat thoroughly. Add 
lamb and simmer until thoroughly heated again. Serve with boiled rice with 
India relish or hard boiled eggs. 


LAMB STEW 


2 tbsp. fat 5 medium potatoes, diced 
1 clove garlic 3 tbsp. sherry 

2 tbsp. flour 1 cup cooked peas 

4 medium mushrooms, sliced 2 Ibs. lamb, cut in pieces 
3 medium carrots, cut in 114” Salt and pepper 


pieces 2 cups water 
10 small onions 1 bay leaf 


1 tsp. sugar Few sprigs parsley 


Heat fat in heavy skillet. Season meat with salt and pepper and brown 
Save excess fat to use later. Lower heat, add garlic and sprinkle flour Bye: 
lamb. Cook gently until all the flour has been absorbed. Stir in 2 cups of 
water and 2 tbsp. tomato paste and bring to a boil. Pour into q 3 qt pia 
role; cover and bake 20 min. Heat saved fat in the skillet and mee maa 
rooms gently 3 min. and remove. Add onions and carrots to skillet. Sprj kI 
sugar over to glaze and cook until they glisten. Add mulshiroaene rae ts 
onions and potatoes to the meat and bake 1 hour or until lamb and Woda! 


are tender. (350° oven). Pour in wine and peas just before serving 


MEATS 149 





LAMB CROQUETTES 


1 cup thick white sauce 14 tsp. pepper 
1 tsp. minced parsley 1 egg 

1 tsp. minced onion 1 tbsp. water 

2 cups ground cooked lamb Bread crumbs 
14 tsp. lemon juice Salad oil 


164 tsp. salt 


Combine sauce, parsley, onion, cooked lamb and lemon juice; mix well. 
' Add salt and pepper. Chill well several hours or overnight. Divide chilled 
croquette mixture into 8 portions. Shape into cylinder, cone or ball. Add 
water to egg and blend. Roll croquettes in bread crumbs; then in egg, then 
in crumbs again. Chill. Fry in deep fat a few at the time, browning on all 
sides. Makes 8 croquettes. 


LAMB STEW WITH CREAM 


3 Ibs. shoulder lamb 2 tbsp. chopped parsley 
2 small onions 1 cup thick sour cream 
2 tbsp. fat Salt 

2 cans tomato pulp Paprika 


Heat the fat, add the onion cut fine and the meat rubbed with salt and 
paprika. Brown the meat and onion and then add the tomato pulp and pars- 
ley. Cook the meat slowly for 2 hours, adding water only if necessary. Just 
before serving add the sour cream and blend well with the sauce. 


LAMB TERRAPIN 


2 cups cold lamb, diced 1 tbsp. Worcestershire Sauce 
2 tbsp. butter 1 cup stock or water 

1 tsp. dry mustard 2 hard-cooked eggs 

1 tbsp. flour 14 cup cream 


To make the sauce, blend the mustard, flour, salt and butter; add the stock 
or water, cream, and Worcestershire sauce; bring to the boiling point, and 
cook for 5 minutes. Add the meat, the yolks of the hard-cooked eggs, put 
through a sieve; heat, and add the whites of the eggs, cut in small pieces. 
Serve on toast. 


ROAST LEG OF LAMB 


Remove the fell from leg of lamb. Put in roaster with 2 stalks of celery, 2 
medium onions, sliced, salt and pepper. Boil slowly for 30 minutes. Remove 
joint from roaster and discard this parboil solution. Put lamb back in roaster 
after it has been lightly covered with prepared mustard. Pour over it 14 cup 
butter with 14 cup bacon drippings; sprinkle lightly with flour and bake at 
350° for 1 hour. Serve with mint jelly. 


150 MEATS 


RAGOUT OF LAMB WITH SUMMER SQUASH 
2 Ibs. lamb from shoulder or breast 14 tsp. powdered thyme 


1 onion 4, tsp. powdered marjoram 
1 medium sized summer squash Bit of bay leaf 

1 sweet green pepper Garlic 

2 stalks celery Salt 


4 medium-sized potatoes 


Cut the meat into small cubes and place in a deep baking dish. Cook ina 
hot oven until well browned. Add the onion cut in cubes, and the summer 
squash, sliced, sweet pepper and celery, cut in small pieces, and the other 
seasonings. Sufficient flavor of garlic is had by rubbing the dish with a 
bruised clove of garlic, or by adding a single slice from one of the cloves. 
Cover the dish and allow the vegetables to cook for an hour with the meat, 
without the addition of water. Then add the potatoes cut in slices. Cover 
the dish again and cook until the potatoes are done. 


ROAST SADDLE OF LAMB—FRESH MINT SAUCE 


1. For 6 to 8 servings, order 6 to 7 Ib. saddle of lamb. 


2. Start heating oven to 325°. Sprinkle lamb with garlic salt and pepper; 
insert a clove of garlic near the bone. 


3. Place lamb in shallow, open roasting pan without rack (use rack if bone 
has been removed). Lightly brush lamb with bottled sauce for gravy. In- 
sert roast-meat thermometer in thickest part of lamb, away from bone. 
Roast, uncovered, 114 to 2 hours, or until roast-meat thermometer regis- 
ters 170° F. for medium-rare, 180° for well-done. Remove lamb from 
oven, let stand about 20 min. before carving. 


4. Meanwhile, make Fresh Mint Sauce; in skillet, over low heat, melt 1 cup 
mint jelly. Stir in 1 bunch mint, snipped. Serve warm. 


ROAST STUFFED SHOULDER OF LAMB 


314 to 4 Ib. lamb shoulder 1 tbsp. drippings 
2 cups dry bread crumbs Salt 
1 tbsp. onion, minced Pepper 


1 tbsp. chopped parsley 


Have the bones removed from a shoulder of lamb. Wipe the meat with a 
damp cloth. Make a dressing from the other ingredients; fill the pocket and 
sew up. Season well the lamb with salt and pepper. Put in a hot oven for 
20 min. Add 1 cup hot water; reduce the temperature and cook for 45 min- 
utes. Place peeled and freshly boiled potatoes to brown with the meat. When 
done remove meat to center of platter with potatoes in a border anette i: 
Make a gravy by smoothing flour into the drippings and adding water . 


MEATS 151 





SHERRIED LAMB CHOPS WITH ORANGES 


14 cup sherry 3 lamb chops, 1” thick 
1% tsp. salt 1 large orange 

14 tsp. dry mustard 3 tbsp. brown sugar 

14 tsp. pepper 2 tsp. sherry 


14 clove garlic, minced 


1. Day before: In pie plate, combine 14, cup sherry, salt, mustard, pepper, 
garlic. Arrange lamb chops in it; refrigerate, turning meat occasionally. 


2. About 30 min. before dinner: Preheat broiler 10 min. Slice unpeeled 
orange 14” thick; sprinkle with brown sugar and 2 tsp. sherry; set aside. 


3. Drain lamb chops, reserving marinade; arrange on broiler rack. Broil, 
3” from heat, about 6 min.; turn; pour on reserved marinade; arrange 
Oranges around chops. Broil all about 6 min. or until meat is done and 
oranges are golden. Makes 2 servings. 


LAMB CHOPS, SPANISH STYLE 


Cook in a pan until slightly brown 14, cup butter, add 14, cup flour and stir 
over fire until blended; then add 114 cups rich stock. Cook until thick, and 
add 2 ounces finely chopped cooked ham and 1 sweet green pepper, minced. 
Let sauce stand in a warm place while 6 rather thick slices of eggplant are 
being sauted. Arrange these on a hot platter, place on each one a broiled 
lamb chop, previously boned and rolled. Pour the sauce over all. Garnish 
with parsley. : | 


LAMB CHOPS WITH BROILED HAM 


Have as many thin slices of lightly broiled ham as of chops. Season lamb 
chops with salt and pepper. Place in a very hot frying pan. Turn when the 
under side is seared and sear on the other side. Turn frequently for 10 min- 
utes. Cover the bottom of platter with the slices of ham. Arrange the chops 
above, placing a paper frill on each one. Place in a warm place. Turn 2 
cups of hot boiled rice into the frying pan and stir with a fork until the rice 
is nicely browned in the lamb fat. Serve on the platter with the chops and 
ham. : 


LAMB CHOPS, HAWAIIAN STYLE 


Place lamb chops on a well-heated broiler and cook until brown on one 
side. Turn and cook a few minutes but not until brown; then place a slice of 
pineapple on each chop and cook until the pineapple browns delicately, for 
about 5 minutes. If panbroiled, place pineapple on top of chop at once, 
then change to cooked side when chop is turned. 


te2 MEATS 


PORK 
BAKED CREOLE PORK CHOPS 


Brown 6 pork chops 34 inch thick on both sides in oven-proof pan or skillet. 
Place an onion slice and green pepper ring on each chop. Pour | can tomato 
soup over chops. Cover; bake at 350° F. about 45 min. Serves 6. 


BAKED HAM WITH PINEAPPLE 


Have a slice of ham 3 or 4 inches thick cut from the center. Rub the sur- 
face with dry mustard. Stick with cloves. Pour over the ham the juice from 
a can of pineapple. Cover and cook in a moderate oven from two to three 
hours according to the thickness. Forty-five minutes before serving time, put 
in the pineapple slices and let them cook until they are tender and brown. 
Serve the ham in the center of a platter with the pineapple slices in a border 
around it. 


BAKED HAM—VERMONT STYLE 


Take a 12-14 pound smoked tenderized ham. Carefully trim off most of 
the skin, leaving skin on the shank end. Score the fat in a crisscross pattern, 
stud here and there with cloves, and paint it all over with maple syrup. Put 
it in a large open roasting pan and bake it in a slow oven 325° F., allowing 20 
minutes to the pound. Around it pour 1 cup maple syrup mixed with 14 cup 
fizzy cider, and baste the ham every 10 minutes with this mixture. When 
the ham is baked, decorate it with bright red candied cherries before serving. 


BAKED PORK CHOPS 


Cook 2 cups whole small white onions in butter until the onions are soft 
but not brown. Take 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, yolks of 2 eggs well 
beaten, juice of 1 lemon, salt and pepper. Mix all these ingredients together 
Place the onions carefully in the bottom of a shallow baking dish; pour the 
above mixture over them. Lay over the top pork chops which have been sea- 
soned. Spread with buttered crumbs and bake for about an hour or until the 
chops are well cooked. 


BAKED SAUSAGES WITH BAKED APPLES 


Place the sausages in the center of a roastin an. Le 
or three minutes, then pierce each one with Hae rated dure phe 
surround the sausages with them. Return to the oven and cook slowly until 
the sausages and apples are well baked. Baste the apples and saus : f 
quently with the drippings in the pan. sonal 


MEATS 153 


BARBECUED SPARERIBS 
3 Ibs. (2 strips) lean spareribs 14 cup cider or wine vinegar 
Salt and pepper 14 cup brown sugar 
14 cup finely diced onion 14 tsp. dry mustard 
14 cup diced green pepper 1 No. 2 can pineapple tidbits 
2 cans tomato sauce (uses tidbits and syrup) 


1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 


Cut after every third rib, about halfway through the strip. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Place in shallow roasting pan. Bake in moderate oven, 
350° F. for 114 hours. Carefully drain off the excess fat. While ribs are 
roasting, mix remaining ingredients and let stand to blend flavors. Pour 
over ribs after 114 hours baking. Bake 45 to 50 minutes longer, basting fre- 
quently to coat ribs with the sauce. Makes 4 servings. 


BRAISED PORK CHOPS WITH MUSHROOMS 


4 to 6 1” thick loin pork chops Y, Ib. mushrooms, sliced 

1 tbsp. butter or margarine 14 cup water 

1 onion, thinly sliced 1 tsp. salt 

1 carrot, thinly sliced 1 tbsp. flour 

14 cup sauterne 114 tsp. butter or margarine 


14 cup water or bouillon 


1. In bit of hot fat in large skillet, brown chops on both sides; remove; drain 
off fat. 


2. In 1 tbsp. butter in same skillet, saute onion and carrot 5 minutes; top 
with chops; add wine, 14 cup water. Bring to boil; cover, simmer 45 min. 
or until chops are fork-tender. 


3. Meanwhile, simmer mushrooms in 14 cup water with salt, covered, 5 min. 
Let stand. 


4. Remove tender chops to serving dish; To liquid in skillet, add mushrooms 
and their liquid, plus flour blended with 114 tsp. butter. Cook stirring 
until thickened. Serve over chops. Makes 4 to 6 servings. 


ESCALLOPED HAM 


2 cups finely chopped ham 1 tsp. dry mustard 
1 cup finely chopped hard boiled Pepper to taste 
eggs 


Make white sauce, combine ingredients in casserole; cover top with bread 
crumbs and pieces of butter. Bake 14 hour at 400° F. 


154 MEATS 





FRESH HAM ROAST 


Have the bone removed from a fresh ham. Fill the cavity with dressing 
made by thoroughly mixing the following ingredients: 


2 cups corn pulp 2 tbsp. minced green peppers 
214 cups bread crumbs 114 tsp. salt 
3 tsp. powdered celery leaves Pepper 


14 cup melted butter 


Put the meat in a pan and roast in a moderate oven, allowing 25 to 30 
minutes per pound. When about cooked coat with egg beaten slightly and 
diluted with water. Cover with equal parts of fine bread crumbs and brown 
sugar and continue cooking until the crumbs are brown. 


HAM AU MARQUIS 


To each slice of cooked ham, prepare the following sauce: 
2 tbsp. brown sugar 4 tbsp. vinegar 
2 tsp. prepared mustard 


Make a paste and spread over the ham and broil it a few minutes. 


HOLIDAY HAM WITH FROSTED GRAPES 


Buy a 144 to 134 inch thick center slice of ham (about 214 Ibs.) Score fat 
edge, place on broiler rack set 4 to 5 inches under heat unit. Broil 12 min- 
utes to the side, turning once. 

To garnish, dip small bunches of green and red grapes into egg white 
which has been beaten slightly with 1 tbsp. cold water, then dip into granu- 
lated sugar. Let stand 15 to 20 minutes until “‘frost’’ sets. Arrange in 
alternating colors around edge of platter. Serves 4 to 5 persons. 


LINCOLN HAM 


1 center cut of ham (13/,” thick) Enough sweet milk to cover 
14 cup brown sugar 2 tbsp. flour to thicken gravy 
2 tbsp. prepared mustard 


Put ham in pan, cover with water, boil for 3 min.; drain off water. Place 
ham in small baking dish and spread with prepared mustard. Sprinkle with 
brown sugar and pour in enough milk to cover. Allow to stand 30 min.; then 
place in oven 350° F. for 40 min. Lift ham once in a while to let milk get 
under it. If milk bakes away, add a little more (milk will curdle when baking). 
When baked, remove ham to hot platter. Sift flour into liquid in baking pan. 
Mix and add 84 cup milk, place over flame and cook 3 min. Pour gravy 
through strainer over ham. Serve with sweet potatoes, cornbread or hot bis- 
cuits. Serves 4. 


MEATS 155 


~PORK CHOP SKILLET MEAL 


4 tbsp. fat 4 rings green pepper 
4 pork chops (1” thick) 4 tbsp. uncooked rice 
T tsp. salt 3 cups canned tomatoes 


4 slices Bermuda onion (14” thick) 1 cup diced celery 


Melt fat in skillet on high. Turn switch on medium low and brown chops 
well on both sides, about 15 min. Add salt. Place a slice of onion and one 
pepper ring on each pork chop. Place one tbsp. rice in each ring. Pour toma- 
toes over the meat; add celery. Cover skillet and when steam appears (about 
8 min.) switch to simmer and allow to cook for one hour. 


PORK CHOPS AND SCALLOPED POTATOES 


Slice enough raw peeled potatoes to fill a baking dish. In a frying pan 
brown on both sides the required number of pork chops. Remove from the 
pan and make a thin gravy using milk for the liquid. Pour this over the 
potatoes, season well with salt and pepper, put the browned chops on top and 
bake in a moderate oven for 45 min. or an hour. 


ROAST LOIN OF PORK 


1 5-Ib. loin, center cut 1 tbsp. seasoned salt 

1 clove garlic, cut Pinch pepper 

1 tsp. salt 14 cup boiling water 

10 cups thinly sliced potatoes 3 tbsp. melted butter or margarine 
1 cup coarsely chopped onion Snipped parsley 


2 tsp. snipped parsley 
1. Start heating oven to 425° F. Trim loin free of all but thin layer of fat. 


2. Rub pork with cut garlic and salt. Place pork, fat side up, on rack in 
shallow roasting pan. 


3. Insert roast-meat thermometer through fat side of pork into center (don’t 
let it touch bone). 


4. Roast pork 1 hr. at 425° F. Then, reduce oven temperature to 400° F.; 
remove pork and rack from roasting pan; pour off all fat. 


5. In roasting pan, toss potatoes with onion, 2 tsp. snipped parsley, salt, pep- 
per; pour in boiling water; lay pork on top; then brush potatoes with butter. 


6. Roast all about 1 hr. or to 185° F. on roast-meat thermometer. 


On heated platter, arrange roast; serve potatoes in vegetable dish, sprinkl- 
ed with parsley. Makes 6 servings. 


156 MEATS 


ROAST LOIN OF PORK WITH APPLE RINGS 


Carefully wipe the meat. Dredge with flour. Season with salt and pepper. 
Place in a roasting pan and cook in a moderate oven, allowing 25 min. to the 
pound. Baste occasionally. Serve with fried apple rings. 


Fried Apple Rings: Core, but do not peel, large tart apples. Saute in but- 
ter or pork drippings until tender, taking care that the rings are not broken. 
Remove from the pan and press a preserved chestnut into the center of each 
ring. Have ready a bread dressing well seasoned with salt, pepper, minced 
onion and minced green pepper. Puta little rounded mould of this dressing 
on tenderloin. Add a little hot water, cover and set in a moderate oven for 
about 30 min. The last 10 min. of cooking, remove the cover so that the 
dressing will brown. Serve on hot platter garnished with sprigs of parsley. 


ROAST PORK SHOULDER 


Have the bones removed from a shoulder of pork. Fill the cavity with 
bread dressing. To make the dressing, soak several pieces of dry bread in 
hot water, pouring off any water that the bread will not take up. Mash the 
bread, season with salt and pepper, 1 chopped onion, 2 stalks of celery, finely 
minced, and a pinch of sage, 1 green pepper, finely chopped. Mix the dress- 
ing and stuff the shoulder. Sew up the opening and roast in a slow oven 
allowing 25 to 30 minutes to the pound. 


VEAL 
BANQUETTE OF VEAL 
2 cups cooked veal, diced 1 cup tomato soup, undiluted 
12 mushrooms, sliced 114 tbsp. butter 
2 egg yolks 114 tbsp. flour 
Pinch salt and pepper 14 cup cream 


Blend the butter and flour together without browning. Add the tomato 
soup, salt, pepper and cream. Cook over slow heat until the sauce thickens. 
Put in the meat and mushrooms and cook 3 minutes. Just before serving 
stir in the egg yolks, cook 3 more minutes and serve hot. : 


CASSEROLE OF VEAL 


8 veal chops 114 sticks butter 
8 small new potatoes 1 veal bouillon cube 
8 small onions 4 strips bacon 


Melt butter in skillet; saute chops in butter. Put in casserole. Add onions 
which have been cooked with chops and the little new potatoes; add sauted 
bacon with a little water and bouillon cube. Cover and cook slowly for 30 


ees or until chops are tender. Serve with Bechamelle Sauce. (See 
auces). 


MEATS Rey 


JELLIED VEAL 


3 Ib. veal, shoulder and neck 1 bay leaf 
with bones 1 tbsp. salt 
1 veal knuckle 1 tsp. pepper 
1 calf’s foot Dash cayenne 
1 onion Dash Worcestershire sauce 
2 whole cloves 8 hard-cooked eggs 


Get out a large kettle. Toss in veal, veal knuckle, calf’s foot, peeled onion 
stuck with cloves, bay leaf, salt, pepper and enough water to cover. Cook to 
the boiling point, cover tightly, reduce heat and cook slowly for 2 to 214 
hours or until meat is tender enough to fall from the bones. 

Remove meat from bones, cut in small pieces. Toss bones back into stock, 
cook very briskly, uncovered, for 30 minutes. Cool slightly, strain through a 
sieve, add cayenne, Worcestershire sauce and salt. 

Pack a layer of veal in the bottom of a 2-quart mold or bowl. Cover with 
slices of hard-cooked eggs and arrange remaining veal on top. Pour season- 
ed stock right up to the top of the mold and chill until firm. This takes about 
12 hours. Unmold and cut in slices. Plenty for 8; perfect for buffet suppers! 


PARSLEY STUFFED VEAL ROLLS 


2 Ib. thin veal cutlets T can condensed beef bouillon, 
114 tsp. salt undiluted 

14 tsp. white pepper 1 tbsp. all-purpose flour 

14 cup butter or margarine 34, cup light cream 

1 cup snipped parsley Pinch white pepper 


2 medium carrots, cutin 1” chunks 2 tbsp. granulated sugar 
2 medium onions, quartered 


Early in day, or day before, if desired: 
1. Have meatman flatten veal to 14.” thickness. Cut into serving pieces; 
sprinkle both sides with salt and 14 tsp. pepper. 
2. Melt 14, cup butter; add parsley; spread some on each side of veal; roll 
up, tie well with string; refrigerate. 


About 134, hours before serving: 
1. In 14, cup hot butter in Dutch oven, saute carrots, onions, and veal until 
meat is well browned. 
2. Add water to bouillon to make 2 cups liquid; add to meat and vegetables; 
simmer, covered, | hr. or until meat is fork-tender. 
3. Remove veal rolls; snip off string; then arrange on heated platter; keep 
warm. 
4. For gravy: With fork, mash vegetables in liquid in Dutch oven. Into 
flour, gradually stir cream; then stir briskly into Dutch oven. Add 4 
tsp. pepper and sugar; cook, stirring, just until heated. Strain; then serve 
with veal rolls. Makes 6 servings. 


158 MEATS 


cee a 


VEAL BIRDS 
3 Ib. ground veal 4 eggs 
14 cup cracker crumbs or toasted 114 Ib. ground beef 
bread crumbs 14 can mushroom soup 


Measure above mixture by 14 cup fulls—Turn out on board and flatten 
to pancake size. For dressing: 1 medium sized onion, chopped fine, 4 stalks 
celery, chopped fine. Cook in fat until done; 14 loaf of bread, sliced, toasted, 
and crumbled as for dressing. Moisten with other half of can of mushroom 
soup. Measure by spoonfuls on top of each veal pancake. Roll with hands 
to form a ball the size of a fat potato. Roll each ball in crumbled corn flakes. 
Wrap each in wax paper for freezing. When needed, partially thaw, fry 
golden brown on all sides; put in baking pan and cover with diluted mush- 
room sauce. Bake in slow oven 300° F. 14 hour. 


VEAL CHOP SUEY 


Cook 3 cups diced cooked veal in 1 tablespoon fat until brown. Add 1 
quart sliced celery, 1 cup sliced onion and 3 cups water. Cook until celery is 
tender, stirring frequently with a fork. Add 1 sliced ripe tomato and 3 cups 
canned bean sprouts and cook for 3 minutes longer. Mix 1 tablespoon corn- 
starch with | teaspoon Chinese brown sauce and 3 tablespoons Soy sauce and 
stir into mixture. Cook about | min. stirring constantly to prevent lumping. 
Serve immediately. 


VEAL CROQUETTES 


2 cups coarsely ground cooked veal 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 


3 tbsp. butter 16 tsp. paprika 

2 tbsp. flour 1 tsp. lemon juice 
2 cups milk 4 eggs 

1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. onion juice 


Cook veal until well done, when cold grind coarsely. Season with salt, 
onion juice. Make white sauce with butter, flour and milk; add lemon juice, 
Worcestershire sauce; when smooth, add veal, cook slowly for 3 minutes. 
Beat 2 eggs together, pour over cooking meat. Take from fire at once, stir 


well. Pour mixture in platter and set aside to chill. When chilled, mold 
into shape; roll in cracker crumbs, dip in other 2 well beaten eggs and again 
in cracker crumbs. Put in ice box to chill. Cook in deep fat 2 or 3 minutes 


Chicken may be substituted for veal. Serves 6. 


MEATS 159 





VEAL CUTLETS 


114 Ib. veal cutlets, cut thick Toasted bread crumbs 
1 egg Salt and pepper 


Dip each cutlet in well beaten egg; drain and dip in crumbs. Shake off 
loose crumbs. Melt a little fat in frying pan and cook cutlets to golden 
brown, Must be thoroughly done. Serve with gravy and tomato sauce. 


VEAL PARMIGIANA (ITALY) 


4 veal chops, cut 1” thick Salt and pepper 

1 egg, beaten Dash paprika 

4 cup olive oil 14 cup Parmesan cheese, grated 
Tomato sauce Dry bread or Post Toasties, crumbled 
Flour 4 slices Mozarella cheese 


Roll meat in flour seasoned with salt, pepper and paprika, then dip in the 
well beaten egg and finally in dry bread crumbs or post toasties, which have 
been mixed with the grated Parmesan cheese. Prepare the chops about | 
hour before you use them and allow thm to chill in refrigerator. Prepare a 
tomato sauce as follows: Saute 1 clove of garlic in 3 tbsps. olive oil; add 1 cup 
tomato puree or tomato soup. Cook these ingredients over low heat for 15 
minutes; stirring often to prevent burning. Heat the olive oil in a large skil- 
let and saute the breaded meat until both sides are nicely browned. Transfer 
the meat to a casserole with a little of the tomato sauce. Top each chop with 
a slice of Mozarella cheese and place in a moderate oven 350° F. for about 
15 min. or until cheese is melted and lightly browned and chops thoroughly 
cooked. Serve with remaining tomato sauce. 


VEAL SOUFFLE 


1 tbsp. flour 4 cup bread crumbs 

1 tbsp. butter 2 egg yolks 

14 pt. sweet milk 2 tbsp. parsley 

2 cups cooked veal, diced Grated rind of 14 lemon 
1 tsp. salt 2 egg whites 


Dash cayenne pepper 


Melt butter: Add flour and stir until smooth; add milk and cook until it 
thickens, stirring constantly to prevent burning. Put in bread crumbs and 
simmer for a few minutes. Beat yolks of eggs and add before removing from 
the fire. Take from the fire and add veal, parsley, lemon rind, salt and 
cayenne; Add well beaten egg whites. Put in buttered baking dish and bake 
20 minutes in moderate oven. 


160 MEATS 


ere reece en Sn 


VEAL SCALLOPINE 


2 Ibs. veal cutlets 2 cups sliced mushrooms 
1 cup sherry 14 clove garlic 

2 tbsp. Vermouth (dry) 2 tbsp. tomato paste 

2 tbsp. lemon juice Salt and pepper to taste 


Flour the veal and brown in butter; then add other ingredients, cover pan 
and cook slowly for 114 hours. Serve with rice, using the sauce as gravy. 
Remove the garlic before serving. 


VENISON 
RAGOUT OF VENISON 
3 Ibs. venison, cut in 1” pieces Pinch thyme 
2 medium sized onions, chopped 1 small bay leaf 
2 cloves garlic, minced 1 lemon, juice and rind 
2 stalks celery, chopped 14 cup red wine vinegar or (apple) 
14 cup olive oil 2 cups red wine 


14 tsp. black pepper 


Prepare marinate of above ingredients and soak venison 24 or 48 hours. 
The marinate is a tenderizing as well as flavoring liquid. To cook: Render 
about 14 cup salt pork strips; drain the venison from marinade and brown in 
pork fat. Use heavy pan with tight cover. Add the marinade with 2 cups 
tomatoes (canned) to the meat. Simmer 114 hours or until tender. If mix- 
ture needs moistening, add mixture of half red wine and half meat stock or 
bouillon. When done, thicken with a paste made of 1 tbsp. butter and 2 
tbsp. flour. Taste for seasoning and serve very hot. Good with rice, tossed 
salad and a good Burgundy. Serves 6. ; 


ROAST LEG OF VENISON 


In France almost all game is marinated. This is done to eliminate the 
“wild’’ flavor. With a sharp knife make gashes in the venison and insert 
slices of salt pork. 


Marinate Sauce 


“Bouquet garni’ 1 tbsp. salt 

14 cup good vinegar 1 tsp. black pepper 
14 cup red wine 2 carrots, sliced 

2 medium onions, sliced 4, cup olive oil 


Marinate the venison in this sauce for 5 or 6 days, turning the leg over 
occasionally so that the sauce will permeate the whole leg. Cook in sauce 
Roast at moderate temperature 350° F. allowing 18 minutes per pound. . 

“Bouquet garni’’ is generally used in French cookery. It consists of 3 or 4 
sprigs of chopped parsley, a sprig of thyme and a small bay leaf. 


MEATS 161 


VENISON CASSEROLE 


2 ib. breast of venison 14 cup red wine 

16 Ib. diced salt pork 1 clove garlic 

2 tbsp. butter 3 medium sized onions, chopped 
2 tbsp. flour fine 

2 cups water 14 Ib. mushrooms, sliced 

1 tsp. salt 


Fry the salt pork in butter until brown; remove the pork and fry the venison 
which has been cut in small pieces. When the venison is well browned, re- 
move and add the flour, water and wine, stir until well blended; all salt, 
pepper, garlic, onions and put the venison back and cook gently 1 hour. Add 
sliced mushrooms (canned ones will do) and cook 30 min. longer. Put the 
venison in a deep warm platter. Cover with a layer of onions and a layer of 
mushrooms. Strain the sauce and pour it over all. If the sauce is too thin, 
add a tbsp. cornstarch, blend well, stir over the fire until very hot and serve. 


VENISON STEAK 


3 or 4 Ibs. of venison steak (you can determine 
how many guests to be served and plan ac- 
cordingly) 


Cover the steak with 1 cup vinegar and 14 cup water, add 1% tbsp. salt. 
Let stand 30 minutes. Remove steak from this liquid. Pound the steak well 
with mallet or edge of a saucer, pounding in 2 tbsp. or more of flour. Fry in 
bacon drippings with a few slices of onion cooked in it. Serve with tomato 
sauce and four drops of Tabasco sauce in it. 


FISH GRAVY 
2 tbs. butter 1% cup liquid from boiled or 
2 tbs. flour boiled fish; or 
114 cups milk (scalded) 1 chicken bouillon cube dissolved 
2 tbs. lemon juice 14 cup hot water 
1 egg yolk 1% tsp. salt 


Melt butter. Add flour and heated milk gradually. Add other liquids 
and lemon juice. Just before serving, beat egg yolk into sauce. Serve hot. 
One tablespoon tomato catsup may be added if desired. 


GRAVY FOR POT ROAST OR STEW 
For each cup of liquid, use 2 tablespoons flour and 14, cup of water. Mix 


until smooth. Add to hot liquid, stirring constantly. Simmer, stirring until 
smooth and thickened. 


162 MEATS 


see 


GRAVY FOR ROAST 


For each cup of liquid, use 2 tablespoons of fat from roasting pan and 2 
tablespoons flour. Pour all other fat from roasting pan. Measure required 
amount of liquid desired (water, stock, or tomato juice); add flour-fat mix- 
ture, and boil gently for 5 minutes or until thick enough. A little garlic salt 
or celery salt to taste may be added if desired. 


GRAVY 
BERNAISE GRAVY 


4 tbsp. oil or melted butter 1 tbsp. vinegar 
4 egg yolks, well beaten Salt and pepper 
4 tbsp. hot water 


Put the well beaten egg yolks in a bowl. Set in a saucepan of hot water; 
add the oil or butter gradually, stirring all the time. Next stir in the hot 
water and cook until as thick as cream. Remove from heat; add the vinegar, 
salt and pepper. Add 14 tsp. Worcestershire sauce. 


BROWN GRAVY 


In the skillet where meats have been fried or in the roaster in which beef 
or other meats have been baked, rub in two tbsp. of flour (the flour must be 
stirred in very slowly); then add 1 cup of stock or water, season to taste and 
cook until of the right consistency. Strain and serve. 


GIBLET GRAVY 


When the turkey or chicken is done, remove from roaster and stir in two or 
more spoonfuls of flour, according to size of the bird. Add enough water to 
make the desired quantity, season to taste and cook until as thick as desired. 
Add the giblets cut in small pieces and serve hot. 


MUSHROOM GRAVY 


114 cups of stock or 2 bouillon 2 tbsp. flour 
cubes dissolved in 114 cups of 1 can mushroom soup 
water 


In a skillet, put the butter and flour; rub well together over low heat Add 
the stock or bouillon cube mixture, stir in can of mushroom SOUP; blend well 
Cook 5 minutes over low heat, season with salt and pepper. Strain and serve. 

Try this over fried chicken, put in oven 10 minutes and serve hot. Also 
delicious served over vegetables (green beans, carrots, spinach, etc.) | 


MEATS 163 


MILK GRAVY 


To 2 tablespoons bacon drippings, 114 cups of milk, and 1 tablespoon but- 
ter, add | tablespoon flour and stir until smooth. Cook, stirring constantly, 
until as thick as desired, about 10 minutes. 1 tsp. of Accent may be added 
before serving (optional). Milk gravy is very nice served on toast or rice. 


FISH 


To Bake Fish: Have the fish dressed. Wash and dry the fish, rub a little 
salt inside and out. Prepare the dressing below, then stuff the fish, fasten 
together with skewers or toothpicks, tie string around it; then lay in baking 
pan which has been well greased. Dredge with flour and put a little bacon 


drippings over the top. Baste frequently with the drippings or the fish will 
be dry. 


Stuffing for Baked Fish: 


3 slices cold bread 1 tbsp. parsley or celery, minced 
2 tbsp. butter or bacon drippings 1 egg 
1 small onion, finely chopped Small amount of milk 


Some variations—Blue Fish; Shad; Trout; Bass; Red Snapper; Haddock. 
Some of the dressing may be made in patties and put around the fish as a 
garnish. Also sliced hard boiled eggs. Frequently tomato catsup and slices 
of bacon are used to top the fish. 


To Saute Fish: Clean the fish thoroughly, wipe dry, dip in a beaten egg 
and roll in cornmeal, then saute in a frying pan. Cook on one side until fish 
is brown; turn with spatula or cake turner and brown on other side. Pan size 
fish, Porgies, Flounders, Halibut, etc. may be used. 


To Broil Fish: Wipe well, season with salt and pepper and place on rack 
of broiler pan, which has been well greased. Broil on one side, flesh side up; 
turn and broil skin side. Use 3 tbsp. of melted butter with 2 tbsp. lemon 
juice over the fish just before serving. Almost all kinds of fish may be broiled. 


BAKED FILLETS IN SOUR CREAM 


Thin lemon or onion slices ' Pepper 
1 to 114 Ib. fish fillets 2, cup sour cream 
or 2 Ib. fish steaks 1” thick Paprika 


Salt or seasoned salt 


1. Start heating oven to 400° F. Cover bottom of shallow baking dish with 
lemon slices; arrange fish on top. Season with salt, pepper; cover with 
aluminum foil. 

2. Then bake 30 min., or until easily flaked with fork, but still moist. 

3. Uncover, spread lightly with combined sour cream and 1 tsp. salt; 
sprinkle with paprika. Broil low in broiler until lightly browned. Makes 
3 or 4 servings. 


164 MEATS 





BAKED FILLET OF SOLE 


4 fillets of Sole 6 mushrooms 

1 cup white wine 1 cup cream 

14 small onion 1 tbsp. butter 

1 minced shallot 1 tbsp. Hollandaise sauce 


Place fillets in a pan, cover them with wine, adding a thinly sliced half of 
the onion, a minced shallot and the mushrooms, sliced thin. Cook for 10 
min. Take out the fish, leaving sauce in the pan. Add the cream, butter and 
Hollandaise sauce. Let simmer for 6 min. Put Sole in a flat fire-proof dish; 
pour sauce over it and broil until a golden brown. 


BAKED FISH FILLETS THERMIDOR 


114 Ibs. fish fillets 3 tbsp. butter or margarine 
114 cups milk 3 tbsp. flour 

1 tsp. salt 2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
4 tsp. black pepper 4, lb. American cheese 


Roll fillets in a little flour; place in shallow baking dish. Pour 114 cups 
milk over fish and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Bake fish about 30 min. at 
350° until fish flake when tested with fork. Remove from oven. For sauce: 
Melt butter, add flour and blend. Then add milk in which the fish has been 
baked. Cook sauce, stirring frequently, until thickened. Then add cheese 
and stir until melted. Add Worcestershire sauce and pour over fish. Sprinkle 
with paprika and brown lightly under broiler. Serve hot! Will serve 4 persons. 


BOUILLABAISSE 
3 tbsp. olive or salad oil 1 bay leaf 
3 onions, thickly sliced 3/4, tsp. dried basil 
3 cloves garlic, halved 3/4, tsp. dried marjoram 
1 leek, sliced 1 Ib. haddock, cut into 2” squares 
2 cans condensed consomme, un- 1 Ib. raw shrimp, shelled, deveined 
diluted 1 No. 303 can potatoes, drained, 
2 tsp. salt halved 
4 tsp. pepper Y, cup dry red wine 
Dash cayenne Snipped parsley 
1 tsp. saffron 1 tomato, cut into fingers 


1. In oil in Dutch oven, saute onions, garlic, and leek for about 10 min.. or 
until tender but not brown. 


PA: Add consomme, salt, pepper, cayenne, saffron, bay leaf, basil and mar- 
Joram; cover. Heat until boiling 


3. Add haddock, shrimp, and potatoes; cover; simmer about 20 min. 
4. Auk wine, parsley, tomato. Serve with French Bread, if you wish. Serves 


MEATS 165 


BROILED SARDINES ON TOAST 


Sauce: Beat 2 eggs light; add 1 tbsp. prepared mustard, 2 tbsp. water and 
VY cup vinegar, 2 tsp. sugar, | tsp. salt and dash of cayenne pepper. Cook 
over hot water until thickened. Remove from heat, beat in 1 tbsp. butter. 

Spread sardines on toast, pour sauce over each slice of the sardine toast 
and broil for 5 minutes. 


FISH ROE 


Roll fish roe in corn meal. Fry in bacon drippings or butter. Fine for 
breakfast or luncheon. 


FISH ROE WITH EGGS 


1 large can Fish Roe 14 tsp. salt 
4 eggs 4 tsp. black pepper 
4 tbsp. bacon drippings 


Put bacon drippings in a heavy skillet. Add fish roe, salt and pepper; 
cook 10 minutes. Stir in eggs that have been lightly beaten. Cook 5 min- 
utes. Serve hot! ane) 


ROCK FISH MUDDLE 


A great favorite on the shores of the Eastern Carolinas— 


10 ibs. Rock fish 1 tbsp. black pepper 
5 Ibs. white potatoes (quatered) 1 tsp. cayenne pepper 
2 Ibs. onions, sliced 14 cup meal 

14 Ib. white lean and fat pork 1 gal. water 


3 tbsp. salt or to taste 


Fillet fish; put in large heavy pot; add potatoes, onions, white meat, salt 
and pepper and cook on medium heat for about 30 minutes or until fish will 
flake easily. Add meal which has been moistened to a thin consistency. Stir 
gently another 15 minutes. Serve hot. 

Hush puppies or plain cornbread are the favorite breads to serve with this 
muddle. Also a tossed salad and any pie or “flap jack’ (a fried peach or 
apple pie) completes a delicious repast. 


ROE AND BACON BITES 


Slice 1 714-0z. can shad roe into 24 pieces; wrap each in a halved bacon 
slice; secure with toothpicks. Turning often, broil 3 inches from heat, until 
bacon is crisp; drain on paper toweling. Serve immediately with garnish of 


parsley. Makes 24. 


166 MEATS 


ROCK FISH STEW 


4 ibs. Rock Fish fillets (skinned) 1 sweet green pepper, stemmed 
2 Ibs. white potatoes, peeled and and peeled, or pimento 
quartered 6 slices of bacon 
1 Ib. onions peeled and sliced 14 Salt and pepper to taste 
inch thick 


Pour boiling water over green pepper, let set 5 minutes; drain; cut in 
14-inch bits. | 

Boil potatoes, onions, and pepper in salt water 15 minutes. Fry bacon and 
remove from drippings. Put fish in potato mixture, add bacon cut in 114- 
inch lengths to fish; cook until fish will flake easily—about 15 minutes. A 
little water may be added if needed. Stir 144 cup of cracker crumbs in mix- 
ture to thicken the broth. 

Serve in hot platter, garnished with parsley, sliced hard boiled eggs, and 
slices of lemon. Serves 6. 


FISH STEAKS 


3 Ibs. large fish (Blue fish, Bass, 2 tbsp. bacon drippings 
Trout or other large fish) 1” thick 1 tbsp. lemon juice 
14 stick butter or margarine Salt and pepper to taste 


Make a sauce of the butter, bacon drippings, lemon juice, salt and pepper. 
Place the fish steaks on a broiler pan; pour or spoon some of the sauce over 
fish. Put in oven about 4 inches from heat; cook for about 10 min. Turn 
with cake turner being careful not to break up the steak. Cover with remain- 
ing sauce and cook another 10 minutes. This has been a treasured fish dish 
for years! 


FISHERMAN’S TUNA STEW 


3 614 or 7 oz. cans tuna fish 1 tbsp. minced parsley 
14 cup sliced onion (separated 3/4, tsp. salt 
into rings) 4 tsp. ground pepper or 
1 1-Ilb. can whole tomatoes marjoram 
1 can (4 oz.) sliced mushrooms 8 oz. pkg. sea shell macaroni 


Drain off oil from tuna in heavy skillet; saute onion rings until tender but 
not brown, about 5 min. Add tomatoes and juice, mushrooms and jucie 
parsley, salt and pepper or marjoram. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 10 
min. Add tuna, cut into pieces. Simmer until tuna is hot, about 5 min 
Meanwhile cook macaroni according to pkg. directions; drain. Serve tne 
stew over macaroni. Makes 6 servings. 


MEATS 167 


SALMON LOAF 


1 Ib. can Salmon 14 tsp. salt 

14 cup milk \, tsp. black pepper 

14 cup buttered bread crumbs 3 tsp. minced onion 

2 eggs, slightly beaten 1 tbsp. melted margarine 
2 tsp. lemon juice 1 tbsp. minced parsley 


Combine ingredients; mix thoroughly, then put in loaf pan and bake in 
moderate oven (350° F.) for 30 to 35 minutes. Turn out on platter and gar- 
nish with slices of hard boiled eggs, potato chips and pickles. Serves 6. 


SHAD ROE ELEGANTE 


2 Shad Roe 114 tsp. salt 
2 tbsp. butter 14 tsp. black pepper 
1 tbsp. bacon drippings 14 cup water 


Put roe in pan; add salt and water and pepper. Cook slowly for 10 min. or 
until water is gone. Add butter and bacon drippings and brown for about 


10 mintues. 


SOLE THERMIDOR 


1 Ib. fillet of flounder Salt and cayenne pepper to taste 
1 tbsp. flour 3 tbsp. melted butter 

14 cup sour cream 4 tbsp. grated Swiss or Parmesan 
1 tsp. dry mustard cheese 

14 cup brandy 2 cups of “’Court Bouillon” 


Trim fish and poach in ‘’Court Bouillon’’ which is as follows: 


14, cup boiling water 4 tsp. black pepper 
14 cup dry wine 6 slices carrots 

2 cloves garlic lf tsp. thyme 

2 small onions 3 sprigs of parsley 

1 bay leaf 


Cook all these ingredients together for 30 minutes. Strain and use as 
water for poaching the fish. Lift poached fillets on to hot baking platter. 
Combine flour and melted butter and add Court Bouillon in which fish was 
poached. Add seasonings, the cream and brandy and 2 tbsp. of cheese. Do 
not cook. Pour over the fish, sprinkle with the remaining cheese and put 


close under the flame to brown instantly. 


168 MEATS 


TROUT—WHITE WINE SAUCE 


3 Ibs. trout 1 lemon 

3 tbsp. olive oil 1 dry shrimp, cut fine 
2 medium onions, minced 3 truffles 

6 tbsp. butter 14 can mushrooms 

2 tbsp. flour 1 cup white wine 


Skin and bone the trout; cut in six pieces; fold over and put in pan with 
olive oil, the minced onion, salt and pepper to taste. Place in oven to cook. 
Take another pan, blend flour, butter and juice of the lemon over the fire, 
add shrimp, mushrooms, truffles and wine. Pour all over the fish. Sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and cheese; dot with butter and run in oven for 5 minutes 
to lightly brown. Serve hot! 


SEAFOOD 


ee 
SSS 


BAKED CRAB 
1 Ib. crab meat 1 pt. milk 
1% bell pepper 1 tbsp. Sherry 
1 stick butter 1 piece of celery 


1 tbsp. flour 


Cho- <elery and green pepper and cook in melted butter. Add crab meat 
and flour with milk and cook until creamy; add sherry. Put in casserole and 
cover with bread crumbs. Bake in 400° oven until brown. 


BAKED FISH MOUSSE 


Melted butter or margarine 1% |b. butter or margarine, melted 
4 cup packaged dried bread 4 egg yolks, unbeaten 
crumbs 1 tbsp. salt 
14 cup sifted all-purpose flour 14 tsp. white pepper 
1 tbsp. potato flour 14 tsp. ground allspice 
2 Ibs. freshly ground raw haddock, 2 cups milk 
pike, or cod 4 egg whites, stiffly beaten 


1. About 114 hr. before serving: Start heating oven to 350°. Brush a 9” 
tube pan with melted butter; then coat generously with bread crumbs; set 
aside. Sift together flour and potato flour. 


2. To ground fish in large bowl, add 1% Ib. butter, melted; with wooden 
spoon, beat vigorously. Then beat in egg yolks. Onto this mixture, 
sprinkle sifted flour mixture, salt, pepper and allspice; stir in. Gradually 
add milk, beating thoroughly until well blended. 


3. Gently fold in stiffly beaten egg whites until well blended. Turn mixture 
into prepared pan; bake about 45 min. 


BROILED LOBSTER 


Sever live lobster’s spinal cord by inserting sharp knife between body and 
tail of lobster. Then place on back and make deep cut from head to end of 
tail. Force open, remove sac just back of head and black vein which runs to 
end of tail. Green part (the liver) and coral are edible. Place lobster, back 
down, on greased broiler rack with upper surface 6 inches below unit or tip 
of flame. Brush meat with melted butter, season. Broil 8 to 10 minutes or 
until browned. Crack large claws; serve with melted butter. 


169 


170 SEAFOODS 


Scr ce 


BISQUE OF LOBBSTER AND SHRIMP 


3 tbsp. butter or margarine 1 can condensed chicken broth, 
2 thin onion slices undiluted 

2 thin carrot slices 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

2 tbsp. chopped celery 1 cup cooked shrimp, halved 

14 bay leaf lengthwise 

4 tsp. dried marjoram 1 cup cut-up cooked lobster 

14 tsp. whole black pepers 1 cup heavy cream 


16 tsp. salt 


1. In saucepan, melt butter. Add onion, carrot, celery, bay leaf, marjoram, 
whole black peppers, and salt; saute slowly 5 min. | 


2. Stir in chicken broth, lemon juice; simmer, covered, 5 min. 


Strain. Add shrimp, lobster and cream; heat 5 min. Serve topped with 
parsley or dill. Makes 6 to 8 servings. 


BOILED FISH WITH EGG SAUCE 


2 Ib. fish (Trout, Flounder or 1 piece of celery 
Haddock) 1 tbsp. vinegar 

1 carrot 1 tsp. salt 

1 onion Dash black pepper 

3 bay leaves 2 ats. water 

5 cloves 3 hard-boiled eggs 


Boil fish ten min. to the Ib. as follows: Place fish in warm water to cover, 
let come to boil quickly, turn down to simmer. To each 2 qts. of water re- 
quired, add celery, onion, carrot, bay leaves, cloves, salt and vinegar in quan- 
tities given. To 1 pt. of white sauce add the three hard-boiled eggs, sliced 
and 2 tbsp. fish water. Drain fish; place on platter and pour sauce over all. 
Garnish with paprika, parsley and thin slices of lemon. 


BROILED OYSTERS WITH CHEESE 


Drain |] pt. of select oysters and roll in bread crumbs. Dip in 2 eggs slight- 
ly beaten; dip again in bread crumbs, put in broiler pan and brown quickly 
turning to brown both sides. Place 2 oysters on toast and serve with ehe fol- 
wits squce: Satie ia 2 Ib. cheese in double boiler; slowly add 1% cup 
milk, stirring until smooth. Add a dash of tabasco and serve ove 
May be garnished with parsley. BONIS 


SEAFOODS 17] 


CANTONESE LOBSTER 
1 pkg. (8 oz.) containing 2 frozen 4 cup finely diced celery 


rock lobster tails Mixing Sauce 
2 tbsp. peanut oil 2 small scallions (green onions) 
1 large garlic clove finely cut with some tops 
14 cup ground lean pork included 


4 cup finely diced carrot 


Have lobster thawed. Wash in cold water and drain. With kitchen scis- 
sors cut away thin undershell. Cut each tail in 3 crosswise pieces. Heat oil 
in 9 to 10 in. skillet; add minced garlic and pork. Cook and stir with a fork 
over low heat until meat loses its pink color and is in crumbles. Add carrot 
and celery; cook gently about 5 min. Add mixing sauce and lobster, shell 
side down. Stir constantly until sauce thickens. Turn lobster shell side up. 
Cover and cook gently, shaking pan often, just until lobster is cooked through 
and opaque looking—this takes only a few min. Sprinkle with cut scallions. 
Serve at once. Makes 2 servings. 


Mixing Sauce: Dissolve 1 chicken bouillon cube in 34, cup boiling water; 
stir in 2 tsps. soy sauce, 14 tsp. sugar. Mix 114 tbsp. cornstarch with 2 tbsp. 
cold water until smooth; add to soy sauce mixture. 


COQUILLES SAINT-JACQUES 


3/4, cup water 2 tbsp. flour 

14 cup sauterne 14 clove garlic, minced 

14 tsp. salt 1 tsp. snipped parsley 

Few grains cayenne 1 egg yolk, well-beaten 

1 pt. sea scallops 3/, cup buttered tiny fresh bread 
2 tbsp. butter or margarine crumbs 

1 small onion, minced 2 tbsp. grated Parmesan cheese 


1. Start heating oven to 425° F. In skillet, combine water, wine, salt, cay- 
enne; in it, simmer scallops 5 min.; drain, reserve liquid. Coarsely chop 
scallops. 

2. In hot butter in same skillet, saute onion until tender; stir in flour well. 
Stir in reserved liquid and cook until thickened. Add garlic and parsley, 
and stirring constantly, cook 5 min. 

3. Now, gradually stir some of sauce into beaten egg yolks; then into re- 
maining sauce, gradually stir egg yolk mixture. Add _ scallops; heat 
gently. 

4. Into 5 buttered 6” pie plates or into scallop shells, spoon scallop mixture. 
Top with crumbs and cheese; bake until brown, about 5 min. Makes 5 


servings. 


172 SEAFOODS 


ee en rrr nnn 


CHEESE SALMON BAKE 


2 tbsp. butter or margarine 14 8-oz. pkg. medium noodles 
2 tbsp. flour (2 cups) 
1 cup milk 1% Ib. process sharp Cheddar 
1 1-Ib. can salmon, drained and cheese, grated 

flaked 1 tsp. salt 


Vy tsp. pepper 


od 
° 


Start heating oven to 375° F. Grease 1 qt. casserole. 


2. In saucepan, melt butter; add flour, stirring until blended, smooth. Slowly 
add milk, stirring constantly to avoid lumps. Cook, stirring, until smooth 
and thickened. 


3. To salmon, add uncooked noodles, cheese, salt, pepper and sauce; com- 
bine thoroughly. Pour into casserole. Bake 30 min. or until set. Makes 
4 servings. 


CLAM CHOWDER 


For each person use | small onion and | medium potato, peeled and quar- 
tered. Dice 2 stalks celery and simmer all slowly in 2 cups water until the 
entire mixture is smooth and thick. The vegetables will boil down completely 
—but you'll have to watch the chowder closely, and stir it frequently to keep 
it from scorching on bottom of the pan. Cut 10 strips of bacon into small 
pieces and brown until crisp. Drain on paper toweling. Add bacon to the 
vegetables, stir well and simmer for 5 min. Add 2 cups finely minced clams 
and juice and let cook for 10 min. Season to taste with salt and pepper. The 
chowder will be very thick. Thin with 1 cup water. Simmer a few minutes 
and serve. Makes 8 to 10 servings. 


CRAB IMPERIAL 


1 Ib. crab meat 14 cup milk 

2 tbsp. chopped onion 14 tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. chopped green pepper Dash pepper 

3 tbsp. butter, melted 14 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
2 tbsp. flour 2 hard cooked eggs, chopped 


Remove any shells or cartilage from crab meat, being careful not to break 
the meat into small pieces. Cook onion and green pepper in butter until 
golden. Blend in flour. Add milk gradually and cook until thick Stirring 
constantly. Add seasoning, eggs and crab meat. Place in six greased indi- 


vidual shells. Bake in 350 degree oven 20 to 25 mi 
Renacene minutes or until brown. 


SEAFOODS 173 


CRAB CROQUETTES 


1 Ib. well picked crab meat 3 tbsp. flour 

2 cups cream 1 tbsp. minced parsley 

2 hard boiled eggs salt, pepper, a few bay leaves 
2 tbsp. butter and mace to taste 


Make a cream dressing of the butter, flour and cream, (it must be thick). 


Add the hard boiled eggs, sliced and seasonings and crab meat. Let stand 
in refrigerator overnight or until thoroughly chilled. Make into croquettes; 
roll in cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. Serve with tartar sauce. 


2. 


CRAB MEAT a la KING 


114 tbsp. butter or margarine flaked 
6 mushrooms, sliced, or 14 cup Dash paprika 
canned mushrooms, drained 1 egg yolk, unbeaten 
1 tbsp. butter or margarine 1 tbsp. light cream 
1 tbsp. flour 1 tsp. lemon juice 
34, cup milk 3 buttered toast slices, halved 


1 614-0z. can king crab meat, 


In 114 tbsp. hot butter in skillet, saute mushrooms about 5 min. 


Meanwhile, in saucepan, melt | tbsp. butter; stir in flour; then gradually 
stir in milk. Cook, stirring constantly, until smooth and thickened. 


To mushrooms, add sauce, crab meat, paprika; heat, stirring occasionally. 
Just before serving, combine egg, cream; gradually stir into crabmeat 
mixture; heat. 


Stir in lemon juice. Spoon over toast; garnish with parsley. Serves 2. 


CRARB MEAT BISQUE 


1 cup crab meat, frozen or canned 1 can condensed pea soup, un- 


king diluted 
1 can condensed tomato soup, 114 cups light cream 
undiluted 14 cup dry sherry 


Remove any hard membrane from crab meat. 


In saucepan over low heat, heat soups and cream, stirring constantly. 
Add crab meat; heat thoroughly. 


Gradually stir in sherry; heat. Makes 6 servings. 


174 SEAFOODS 


CRAB NEWBURG 


6 tbsp. butter or margarine 3 egg yolks, beaten 

2 tbsp. flour 3 tbsp. sherry 

1, tsp. nutmeg 3 cups flaked canned King crab 
Dash paprika meat 

1 tsp. salt Toast points 


14 to 14 tsp. dried thyme 
2 cups light cream 


1. In double boiler top, over direct low heat, melt butter; stir in flour, nut- 
meg, paprika, salt, thyme, cream. Cook, stirring constantly, until thick- 
ened and smooth. 


2. Into yolks, gradually stir a little cream mixture; return to double boiler 
top. Cook over hot water, 5 min. 


3. Add sherry, crab meat; heat; serve on toast. Serves 6. 


CRAB-MEAT MARYLAND CASSEROLE 


4 cup butter or margarine 1 teasp. salt 

3 tablesp. flour Speck pepper 

2 cups milk 2 tablesp. sherry 

2 tablesp. minced onion 1 egg, beaten 

14 teasp. celery salt 3 cups fresh crab meat or canned 
4 teasp. grated orange rind or thawed frozen king-crab 

1 tablesp. snipped parsley meat, completely drained 

1 tablesp. minced green pepper 14 cup fresh bread crumbs 

1 pimento, sliced '% cup grated sharp process cheese 
Liquid hot-pepper seasoning 3 half slices tomato 


About one and a half hours before serving: 


1. Start heating oven to 350° F._ In double boiler, melt butter; stir in flour 
till smooth, then milk; cook, stirring, until thickened. Add onion, celery 


salt, orange rind, parsley, green pepper, pimento, dash hot-pepper sea- 
soning, salt, and pepper. 


2. Remove from heat. Add sherry. Slowly stir some of sauce into egg; stir 
egg mixture into rest of sauce. 


3. Remove membrane from crab meat, if canned. With fork, fold crab meat 


into sauce. Turn into 114-qt. casserole. Toss bread crumbs with cheese 
Sprinkle around top edge of casserole. Bake 10 min. | 


A. Arrange tomato slices down center of casserole. Bake 5 min. longer, or 
until crumbs are golden brown. Makes 6 servings. 


SEAFOODS 175 


CRAB NEWBURG CHEESE TARTS 


2 cups grated Cheddar cheese 2 tablesp. flour 
114 cups sifted all-purpose flour ly teasp. nutmeg 
1 teasp. salt Dash paprika 
14 teasp. prepared mustard T teasp. salt 
14 cup melted butter or margarine 3 tablesp. sherry 
3 cups canned or thawed frozen 3 egg yolks 
king-crab meat, completely 2 cups light cream 
drained 14 cup grated cheddar cheese 
6 tablesp. butter Fresh dill (optional) 


Early in day or day before: 


1. Start heating oven to 400° F. In bottom of each of six 3” cupcake-pan 
cups, crisscross two 8” x 1” alumnium-foil strips; extend ends above top 
of cup. 

2. In bowl, with pastry blender or fork, mix until smooth 2 cups grated cheese, 
114 cups of flour, 1 teasp. salt, mustard, and 14 cup melted butter. Knead 
(fold over and over) about 1 min. to soften. 

3. Divide dough into six equal parts. Use each part to line one cupcake- 
pan cup, pressing dough firmly to bottom and side and making top edge 
smooth or fluted. With fork, prick bottoms and sides. Bake 15 min., or 
until golden brown. Cool in pans. (If baked day before, store in cups in 
cake container.) 


HOLIDAY TUNA LOAF 


8 oz. wide noodles 1, cup butter or margarine 
6 shelled, hard cooked eggs 14 cup flour 
1 13-0z. can tuna fish, coarsely 2 tsp. salt 
flaked, drained Dash pepper 
14 cup minced onion 2 tsp. bottled thick meat sauce 
14 cup pickle relish 2 tbsp. lemon juice 
1 cup cooked fresh mushrooms 2 cups canned condensed chicken 
2 cups milk broth, undiluted 


1 5-oz. pkg. potato chips, crushed 


Cook, drain, rinse noodles according to pkg. directions. Add next 5 in- 
gredients. Melt butter in saucepan; blend in flour and seasonings; then stir 
in liquids and cook stirring constantly, until thickened. Add this sauce to 
noodle-tuna mixture; toss until well mixed. Grease pan about 13” x 9” x 2”; 
over bottom spread a thin layer of crushed potato chips. Put in half of the 
noodle-tuna mixture, then a sprinkling of chips, remaining tuna mixture, 
finally remaining chips. Store loaf in refrigerator until next day; remove it 
just before baking time. Bake in moderately hot oven of 375 to 400 degrees 
for 45 minutes. Cut into 12 squares. 


176 SEAFOODS 


DEVILED CRAB 


114 cups crab meat 2 tbsp. cracker crumbs 

34, cup condensed mushroom soup 114 tsp. prepared mustard 
(undiluted) 14 tsp. salt 

T egg Paprika and black pepper to taste 


Pick over crab meat to remove bits of shell; mix well with other ingredients. 
(This may be prepared in advance and put in refrigerator). When ready to 
cook, add 2 tbsp. light wine. Fill crabshells and sprinkle over with bread 
crumbs, (use 2 slices bread with 2 tbsp. butter). Place shells in baking pan, 
cover the bottom of pan with water. Bake at 325° F. for 20 minutes. Makes 
8 shells. 


FISH CHOWDER 


1 Ib. halibut, cut up 2 tsp. salt 

4 large tomatoes, quartered 14 tsp. pepper 

4 large potatoes, diced 44 cup butter or margarine 
2 large onions, sliced 1 cup heavy cream 

1 qt. water Thin tomato slices 


1. In large saucepan, combine halibut, tomatoes, potatoes, onions, water, 
salt and pepper. Bring to boil; reduce heat; simmer, covered 1 hour. 


2. Add butter, cream; simmer 5 min. longer. Serve in large soup bowls, 
with tomato slices. Makes 8 to 10 servings. 


LOBSTER NEWBURG 


Beat 4 egg yolks with 2 tbsp. cream. Melt 2 tbsp. butter, add 1 cup coffee 
cream, 1% cup sherry wine, salt and pinch of nutmeg. While sauce is still 
simmering, pour slowly over the egg yolks. Do not boil. Cut boiled lobster 
in medium-small pieces and saute in 1 tbsp. of butter and 1, cup sherry wine. 
Continue to simmer until lobster has absorbed the wine—about 3 min. Add 
to the above sauce. Serve with toast triangles. 


NEW ENGLAND CLAMS 


To 2 cups finely minced fresh clams (or three 7%-0z. cans) add 14 cup 
minced onion, 13 cup each minced green Pepper and finely chopped celery 
and 11% cups dry French bread crumbs. Stir in ] cup heavy cream, 2 beaten 
eggs, 2 tbsp. melted butter, 2 tsp. prepared mustard, 11% tsp. salt and nuts 
pepper. Scoop mixture back into the clam shells. Bake for 20 min ina 350 
degree oven. Remove and sprinkle heavily with Parmesan cheese. Place 14 


strip bacon on top of each shell and heat until the ba is cri 
to 10 servings. con Is crisp. Makes 8 


SEAFOODS 177 


LOBSTER THERMIDOR WITH PILAF 


4 2-Ib. live lobsters 1 teasp. salt 

Pilaf, below 3 tablesp. sherry 

6 tablesp. butter or margarine 114 cups light cream 

3 tablesp. flour 14 cup grated Cheddar cheese 
lf teasp. nutmeg Lemon wedges 

Dash paprika Parsley 


Early in day or day before: 


1. Grasp each lobster by body, claws away from you. 


2. Then plunge it, head first, into boiling salted water—3 tablsp. salt to 3 
qt. water. 


3. Cover; boil 12 to 15 min. Then remove from water. 


Cut heads (with large claws) from tails. Reserve one head as garnish. 
Remove meat, in large chunks, from tails and remaining heads (3 cups 
in all). Refrigerate lobster meat, empty tail shells, and reserved head. 


One hour before serving: 


1. Prepare, then start baking Pilaf (below). 


2. Then, in double-boiler top, melt butter. Stir in flour, nutmeg, paprika, 
salt, sherry, and cream, mixing well. Add lobster meat; cook over hot 
water, stirring, till just thickened. 


3. Arrange tail shells on broiler rack; then fill with lobster mixture, and 
sprinkle with cheese. 


4. When Pilaf has finished baking, turn oven heat up to Broil, and then 
lightly brown Lobster Thermidor. 


5. Spoon Pilaf in a layer onto a heated platter. Arange tails, in a row, on 
Pilaf at one end, with reserved head at other end. Garnish with lemon 
wedges and parsley. Makes 4 servings. 


Note: Rock-lobster tails may replace live lobsters. 


Pilaf: Start heating oven to 375° F. Grease 114-qt. casserole. In sauce- 
pan, melt 4 cup butter or margarine. In it, saute I small onion, sliced; 4 
cup slivered almonds; 14 cup raisins till golden. Add 1 cup raw regular or 
processed rice; mix well. Add 2 cups hot canned clear chicken broth. Place 
in casserole; cover. Bake 30 min., or till all liquid is absorbed. Makes 4 


servings. 


178 SEAFOODS 


V8 


PANNED OYSTERS SUPREME 


1 qt. select oysters 1 cup celery, chopped very fine 
\, Ib. saltine crackers 2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 

1 stick butter or margarine Few drops Tabasco 

1, cup salad oil Salt and black pepper to taste 


Remove any shell pieces from the oysters with a fork. Into a shallow bak- 
ing dish place the butter and oil, run into a very hot oven. Into this melted 
shortening, drop a layer of oysters and celery, sprinkle in the condiments 
salt, pepper, sauce and tabasco. Cover with a layer of crushed crackers. 
Cover with another layer of oysters, condiments, and top with remaining 
crushed crackers. Sprinkle with paprika and bake about 30 min. in 300 de- 
gree oven. 


OYSTER OR SHRIMP COCKTAIL SAUCE 


3 tbsp. tomato catsup 4 tsp. tabasco sauce 
4 tbsp. lemon juice 1 tsp. salt 
2 tsp. prepared horseradish 30 large oysters or shrimp 


2 tbsp. vinegar 


Mix the sauce ingredients well and serve over oysters or shrimp. 


QUICK LOBSTER FONDUE 


1 can (10 oz.) frozen condensed 1 can (5 oz.) lobster, drained 
cream of shrimp soup Paprika 

14 cup milk | Cayenne 

14 cup medium grated cheddar 2 tbsp. cooking sherry 
cheese Toast triangles 


Follow directions on can for removing frozen soup; turn into saucepan. 
Add milk and heat slowly together, stirring occasionally, until soup defrosts; 
when soup reaches boiling point it will become smooth. Add grated cheese 
and stir over very low heat until melted; add drained separated lobster pieces 
and a dash each of paprika and cayenne; stir in sherry. Reheat gently, do 
not boil. Serve over toast triangles. Makes 4 small servings. 


SCALLOPED OYSTERS 


1 qt. select oysters 2 tbsp. butter 
2 tbsp. celery, cut fine 1 cup saltines, broken up 
1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 14 cup grated cheese 


1 cup top milk 


Put layer of oysters in greased baking di 
g dish, then sprinkle half th | 
and half the broken crackers over it. Dot with some of the butter. ipa 


this once more and finally top with 
grated cheese. Cook ; 
375 degree oven. Will serve six. Siscboutss Oumunutessi 


SEAFOODS 179 


SAN FRANCISCO DEVILED CRAB 


1 Ib. crab meat 1 tsp. dry mustard 

114 cups cracker crumbs 14 tsp. salt 

34, cup chopped celery Dash cayenne 

3/4, cup chopped onions 2, cup butter or margarine 
14 cup chopped parsley 4 cup heavy cream 


1 tbsp. chopped green pepper 


Pick over the crab meat and remove any cartilage. Roll or crush crackers 
and measure correct amount. Chop all vegetables fine and measure these 
also. 

Start oven at 350° F. Butter a 114-qt. casserole or 6 to 8 individual shell 
dishes. Now mix crab meat, crumbs, chopped vegetables, all seasonings, 
melted butter and cream together thoroughly. Spoon into casserole or shells 
and dot top with a little additional butter. Bake casserole 30 to 40 minutes. 
Bake individual shells 20 minutes. Serves 6. 


SHRIMP CREOLE 


1 cup chopped onions 1 tsp. sugar 

14 cup chopped celery 1 tbsp. chili powder 

14 cup chopped green pepper 1 cup water 

1 small clove garlic, minced 2 cups canned tomatoes 
1 tbsp. flour 1 tbsp. vinegar 

3 tbsp. salad oil 2 cups cooked shrimp 

1 tsp. salt 4 cups cooked rice 


Cook onions, celery, pepper and garlic in hot fat over medium heat until 
tender, about 10 min. Add flour, salt, sugar and chili powder, which have 
been mixed with 14, cup of water. Add remaining water and simmer, uncov- 
ered, over low heat for 15 min. Add tomatoes, vinegar and shrimp. Heat 
thoroughly. Pack hot rice in buttered mold and turn out on serving platter. 
Arrange shrimp mixture in center of and around the rice mold. 


SHRIMP HIBACHI 


114 Ib. uncooked shrimp 1 tsp. each oregano, basil, 
3/, cup salad oil ground cloves 

1 medium onion, grated 14 tsp. celery seed 

2 tbsp. lemon juice 14 tsp. chili powder 

1 clove garlic, finely chopped 14 tsp. salt 


Shell and clean shrimp, leaving tails on. Combine remaining ingredients 
and add shrimp and let stand at least two hours. Place shrimp ona grill over 
hot charcoal and broil 5 to 8 min. basting occasionally with the sauce. Serve 
with barbecue sauce recipe below. Makes 5 to 6 servings. | 


REO MRE Done CLA I SHAROODS) G1 S110 (wi Annan 


Uncooked Barbecue Sauce: 


Combine 114 cups chili sauce, 14 cup tomato juice, 14 tsp. chili powder, 
1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce, dash of tabasco, 1 minced clove garlic, 14, cup 
dry white wine, 1 tbsp. lemon juice, 1 bay leaf and | whole clove in a jar. 
Cover and let stand several hours. Strain and use to baste shrimp habachi. 
Heat remaining sauce and serve with shrimp. 

With a high style main dish like shrimp hibachi, round out the menu with a 
bowl of potato salad, a relish tray, and grilled French bread. 


SHRIMP LASAGNA 


14 cup onion, chopped 1 pound can tomatoes 

1 clove garlic, minced 1 6-oz. can tomato paste 

3 tbsp. olive oil 1% Ib. lasagna (broad noodles) 

4 cups boiling water 1 Ib. cottage cheese 

2 pkgs. tomato vegetable soup mix 2 to 3 cups cooked, cleaned shrimp 
14 tsp. oregano 2 tbsp. Parmesan cheese 


14 tsp. sugar 


In a 2 qt. saucepan, saute onion and garlic in olive oil until golden. Stir 
in water, tomato vegetable soup mix, oregano, sugar, tomatoes and paste. 
Simmer 20 minutes stirring occasionally. 

Cook lasagna according to pkg. directions. Drain and place in cold water; 
remove as needed. Place 2 tbsp. tomato sauce in bottom of 12 x 8 x2 inch 
baking dish, arrange single layer of lasagna, placed lengthwise, layer of cot- 
tage cheese, half of shrimp and tomato sauce. Repeat layers ending with 
sauce and Parmesan cheese. Bake in a 350 degree oven 30 minutes. Makes 
8 to 10 servings. 


SHRIMP-RICE PARMESAN 


14 cup salad oil 1 teasp. Worcestershire 
i cup packaged precooked rice 1 small onion, minced 

cup water 1 cup coarsely grated pared carrots 
Pe 2 can tomatoes (214 cups) 1 Ib. thawed frozen or fresh large 
2 4 teasp. salt raw shrimp, shelled and deveined 
lg teasp. pepper Grated Parmesan cheese 


About one hour and fifteen minutes before serving: 


1. In hot oil in skillet over medium heat j irri 
cook rice, stirr 
golden. ' ing constantly, until 


2. Add water, tomatoes, salt i j 
t : , pepper, Worcestershire, onio 
covered, till carrots are tender. ARO EOtS Noor 


3. Add shrimp; cook 5 to 10 min., or until shri 
cheese. Makes 4 servings. snrimp are tender. Serve, passing 





a 
° 


SEAFOODS 18] 


SHRIMP ORIENTALE 


1 Ib. shrimp, cleaned and deveined 3 tbsp. butter or margarine, melted 


114 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. soy sauce 

114 tsp. lemon juice 1 tbsp. honey 

114 tsp. dry mustard 16 tsp. salt 

Speck pepper lf tsp. pepper 

1 tbsp. milk 14 clove garlic, minced 


About 45 min. before serving: In shallow, open pan, place shrimp; 
sprinkle on Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice, mustard, speck pepper; 
refrigerate 30 min. 


Now preheat broiler 10 min. or as mfg. directs. Toss shrimp mixture with 
milk; then drain off milk and marinade, and sprinkle shrimp with half of 
butter. In same pan, broil shrimp, about 3” from heat, 3 min., turn; 
sprinkle with remaining butter; broil about 2 min. longer, or until shrimp 
are golden brown. 


Meanwhile, combine soy sauce, honey, salt, 1 tsp. pepper, garlic, parsley, 
if desired. Pass soy mixture at table. Makes 3 servings. 


TUNA PARISIENNE 


14 8-oz. pkg. medium noodles 124 cups evaporated milk, undiluted 
1 6-oz. can chunk-style tuna, 14 tsp. salt 
drained 1 tsp. dry mustard 
1 1-Ib. 1-oz. can peas, undrained 1 tbsp. Worcestershire 
4 cooked carrots, halved length- 14 Ib. process sharp Cheddar 
wise cheese, grated 


Start heating oven to 375° F. Cook noodles as directed. 

Grease 9” pie plate. Break tuna into pieces; add noodles, peas; turn into 
pie plate. On top, arrange carrots. Bake 25 min. or until thoroughly 
heated. 

Meanwhile, in saucepan, simmer evaporated milk, salt, mustard, Wor- 
cestershire, until just below boiling point; add cheese, stirring constantly, 
until cheese melts. 


Serve tuna in wedges; pass sauce. Makes 6 servings. 


VEGETABLES 


ACORN SQUASH 


Squash Paprika 
Butter Sugar or 
Salt Maple syrup 


Split acorn squash for as many as needed; remove seed and place cut side 
down in baking dish with about | inch of water. Let steam for 15 minutes. 
Pour water off. Rub each half the squash inside with butter and season with 
salt, a dash of grated nutmeg and sprinkle with brown sugar or maple syrup. 
Top with a few shakes of paprika. 


APPLES FRIED IN BATTER 


4 apples, cored and sliced 34” thick 
Remove top and bottom of apple, then slice. 


Batter: 
2 cups flour 4 tsp. salt 
2 tsp. baking powder 1 cup milk 
2 egg yolks, well beaten 2 egg whites, beaten 


Stir all ingredients except egg whites well. Add egg whites; blend well; 
then dip apples in, slice after slice, and fry in well greased pan. Serve hot. 


ARROS CON POLLO 
(Yellow Rice with Chicken) 


114 cups rice 1 clove garlic 

1 2-Ib. chicken, cut up 14 can tomato sauce 

1 medium sized onion 4 sweet green peppers, cut up 
lf, tsp. saffron 3 cups water 

1 medium green pepper Olive oil or other shortening 


Fry chicken in oil or other shortening until brown. Remove chicken from 
pan, in same pan fry chopped onion, green pepper and garlic. When done 
add tomato sauce, sweet peppers and 3 cups of water. Add chicken and let 
simmer about 20 minutes. Wash rice and add 1% tsp. powdered saffron and 
stir. Add yellow rice to chicken mixture and cook over low heat until done 
about 45 minutes. (Do not stir). Serve hot. 


182 


VEGETABLES 183 


ASPARAGUS WITH HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 


| large can green asparagus. Put asparagus in tall double boiler in a 
small amount of juice from the can. Add 2 tsp. butter and a little salt. Heat 
to boiling point; turn out on hot platter. Serve with hollandaise sauce. 


ASPARAGUS MOUSSE 


2 large cans asparagus 14 stick butter 
4 eggs 14 cup milk 
4 tbsp. flour Season to taste 


Make a white sauce of butter, flour and milk. Stir in well beaten egg 
yolks and liquid from canned asparagus. Cook slowly 5 minutes. Cool; add 
stiffly beaten egg whites and asparagus. Put in greased mold; set in pan of 
hot water and bake slowly 15 minutes. Turn out on chop dish or platter, 
garnish with pimiento cheese balls. 


BAKED TOMATOES 


2 medium tomatoes 1 tsp. Worcestershire 
14 tsp. prepared mustard Salt | 
T small onion, minced 2 tbsp. buttered bread crumbs 


1. Start heating oven to 375° F. Wash tomatoes; cut out stem ends; then 
halve crosswise. 

2. In baking dish, arrange, with cut sides up. Spread with prepared mix- 
ture; top with onion, Worcestershire; sprinkle well with salt, then with 
crumbs. | 

3. Bake, uncovered, 30 min. Makes 4 tomato halves. 


BRANDIED OR SHERRIED POTATOES 


8 medium sized sweet potatoes 1, tsp. salt 
1, cup butter 14 cup brown suger 
1, cup cream Marshmallows 


Wash potatoes thoroughly. Boil until tender; remove from saucepan, peel 
and run through ricer or masher until smooth. Add butter, sugar, salt, cream 
and brandy or sherry; beat until fluffy. Turn into greased casserole. Bake 
20 min. in moderate oven 350° F. Cover with marshmallows and bake 5 
minutes longer. Will serve 8. 


BROCCOLI 


Cook 2 packages frozen broccoli in 1 cup boiling water with 1 teaspoon 
salt for 12 minutes. Remove from heat and serve with cheese sauce. 


184 VEGETABLES 


BRUSSELS SPROUTS 


Boil 2 Ibs. brussels sprouts in 2 cups salted water with 2 tbsp. bacon drip- 
pings and 2 tbsp. butter or margarine for about 15 minutes. Serves 6. 


CANDIED SOUTHERN SWEETS 


6 large sweet potatoes 1 cup light molasses 
Salt and pepper to taste 14 cup water 
14 cup butter Cinnamon 


Juice of 1 lemon 


Boil sweet potatoes in skins, drain and pare. Cut into thick slices and lay 
in greased shallow glass casserole. Boil molasses and water 5 min., adding 
salt, pepper, butter, lemon juice and cinnamon. Blend sirup well, then pour 
over potatoes. Bake in moderate oven 45 minutes, basting frequently until 
an amber transparent brown. Serves 6. 


CORN AND CHILI CASSEROLE 


1 can chili con carne, without beans bread crumbs 

1 No. 303 can cream-style corn 1% tsp. salt 

2 eggs, separated Dash pepper 

4 cup tomato juice 4 tsp. oregano 

114 to 2 cups medium day-old 1 tsp. Worcestershire 


1. Start heating oven to 375° F. Oil 2-qt. casserole. 


2. In bowl, combine chili, corn, egg yolks, tomato juice, crumbs, salt, pepper, _ 
oregano, Worcestershire. Fold into stiffly beaten egg whites. Turn into 
casserole. 


3. Bake, uncovered, 45 min., or till set. Makes 6 servings. 


CORN FRITTERS, NORTHERN STYLE 


3 egg yolks VY, tsp. pepper 

144 cups drained canned whole 4 cup sifted all-purpose flour 
kernel corn 3 egg whites, stiffly beaten 

16 tsp. salt About 6 tbsp. salad oil 


1. Beat egg yolks until light; mix in corn, salt, pepper, flour. Fold into egg 
whites. 


2. Into hot oil in skillet, drop mixture by tablespoonfuls. Cook on both sides 
until brown and done. 
Nice as main dish, with butter and syrup or crisp bacon; or serve as vege- 
table. Makes 6 servings. 


VEGETABLES 185 


CORN PUDDING 


3 cups fresh or canned corn (small _—14 stick butter or margarine, melted 


grain is best to use) 1 tsp. sugar 
2 eggs, well beaten 1 tbsp. salt 
2 cups milk Pepper 


Blend all ingredients well; put in greased casserole and bake until set, 
about 30 minutes at 400° F. Serves 6. 


CORN SOUFFLE 


4 cup milk Dash pepper 

14 cup grated natural sharp Ched- 1 12-0z. can vacuum-packed 
dar cheese whole kernel corn, drained 

14 cup mayonnaise 2 tbsp. snipped parsley 

4 cup all-purpose flour 4 egg whites 


4 tsp. onion salt 


]. Start heating oven at 325° F. Oil 1-qt. casserole. In small saucepan, 
heat milk with cheese until cheese melts. 

2. In small bowl with spoon, mix mayonnaise, flour, onion, salt, pepper; 
slowly stir in milk mixture; blend well. Stir in corn, parsley. 

3. In large bowl, with electric mixer or egg beater, beat egg whites until 
stiff. 

4. With spoon, gently fold corn mixture into egg white until blended. Pour 
into casserole. 

5. Bake, uncovered, 50 min. or until silver knife inserted into center comes 
out clean. 


Serve at once, as vegetable. If used as main dish, serve with heated 
cheese sauce (the pasteurized process-cheese spread that comes in jars). 
Serves 4. 


CREAMED CAULIFLOWER 


Wash | to 2 Ibs. cauliflower and separate the flowerettes. Boil 10 minutes 
in salted water. Serve hot with cheese sauce; sprinkle paprika lightly on 
top. Serves 6. 


186 VEGETABLES 


EGGPLANT ITALIANA 


1 medium eggplant 1 1514-0z. can spaghetti sauce 
1, cup flour with meat 

4 tsp. salt 14 Ib. mozzarella cheese, sliced 
lf tsp. pepper 14 tsp. dried oregano 


34, cup salad oil 


1. Wash eggplant; cut into 14” slices; roll in flour combined with salt and 
pepper. 

2. Start heating oven to 350° F. Ina little hot oil in skillet, saute eggplant 
slices until brown on both sides, adding more oil as needed. 

3. In greased 2-qt. casserole, arrange half of the eggplant slices, spaghetti 
sauce, and cheese slices, sprinkling with 14, tsp. oregano; repeat. Bake, 
uncovered, 35 min. Makes 4 servings. 


EGGPLANT SOUFFLE 


1 medium size eggplant; peel and slice 14” thick. Soak in salt water 15 
minutes. Drain, then boil in saucepan until tender in salt water. Chop fine 
when done. Add 2 tbsp. butter, 1 onion, grated, 2 eggs, well beaten, | tsp. 
pepper and | cup of toasted bread crumbs. Put layer of eggplant mixture 
ina buttered casserole, sprinkle with half the crumbs, then add another layer 
of eggplant. Cover with other half of crumbs; pour over all the cup of milk; 
top with grated cheese and bake in 400° F. oven until slightly browned. 


FRENCH FRIED EGGPLANT 


1 eggplant, peeled and cut in strips 5 in. long and 14 in. thick. Soak in salt 
water 15 min. Drain and dip in 1 egg beaten in 14 cup of milk. Roll in 
cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. 


GRILLED TOMATOES AND MUSHROOM CAPS 


6 to 8 small tomatoes 3 tbsp. minced onion 
6 to 8 large mushrooms Salt 
2 tbsp. prepared mustard Butter or margarine 


1. Wash tomatoes; slice off stem ends. Wash mushrooms; remove stems (if 
desired, stems may be chopped, then sauteed in 1 tbpsp. butter). 

2. In shallow baking pan, arrange tomatoes; spread with mustard; sprinkle 
with minced onion and salt; dot with butter. 


3. In another shallow baking pan, arrange mushrooms, rounded side down; 
sprinkle with salt; dot with butter. 


4. Broil all 4” from heat, 12 to 15 min., or until nicely browned. Serve each 
tomato with a mushroom cap. Makes 6 to 8 servings. 


VEGETABLES 187 


GUMBO 
1 214 can of tomatoes or 2 cups 2 cups small pod okra 
fresh tomatoes, chopped 2 medium sized onions, sliced 


Boil all together (no water) 20 minutes; season with 1 tsp. salt, 14 tsp. 
pepper, 2 tbsp. bacon drippings, 1 tbsp. butter. 1 cup of chopped cooked 
chicken or meat may be added, if desired. Makes 6 servings. 


HAMBURGER-EGGPLANT CASSEROLE 


1 medium eggplant 1 tsp. dried basil 

4 tsp. salt 1 tsp. nutmeg 

3 tbsp. butter or margarine 1 Ib. chuck, ground 

114 cups chopped onions 14 lean pork, ground 

2 cups diced fresh tomatoes 1 cup fresh bread crumbs 

1 tsp. paprika 2 tbsp. melted butter or margarine 
4, tsp. pepper 14 cup grated sharp Cheddar cheese 


About | hr. before serving: 
1. Start heating oven to 350° F. Wash and pare eggplant; cut into 1” 
slices; sprinkle with salt on each side, using 1 tsp. salt in all. 


2. In 3 tbsp. hot butter in skillet, saute onions and tomatoes until onions are 
tender; stir in remaining salt, paprika, pepper, basil, nutmeg, chuck and 
pork. Cook 5 min. or until meat is lightly browned. 


3. Rinse salted eggplant in cold water. In 12” x 8” x 2” shallow baking dish, 
place half of meat mixture, then all of eggplant mixture; top with rest of 
meat. Bake in oven until done. 


HARVARD BEETS 


1 can of beets, cut in small slices 14 cup sugar 
2 tsp. cornstarch 3/, cup beet juice 
1 tsp. salt 14 cup vinegar 


Cook all above together, except the beets, until thick. Then add beets. 
Add a lump of butter before serving. 


HASH BROWN POTATOES 


6 cold potatoes (boiled) Salt and pepper to taste 

1% cup salt pork, cut in bits 

Fryout the salt pork; when the fat is fried out, remove the bits of meat 
from fat. Put the potatoes in the fat and cook until brown. Toss them about 
until all sides are brown. Serve hot. 


188 VEGETABLES 


LYONNAISE POTATOES 


Boil about 6 medium sized potatoes. Peel and slice 2 medium sized onions. 
Heat 2 tbsp. butter and fry the onions until they begin to turn yellow; then 
put in the potatoes and season and cook until golden brown. Turn the pota- 
toes about constantly in the pan so that they may brown evenly. 


OKRA PATTIES 


1 qt. okra cooked in 1 cup of water 10 minutes. Drain. To 14 cup of flour 
add 2 tbsp. sweet milk and 1 beaten egg, 14 tsp. salt and pepper. Put okra 
in this mixture. Fry by spoonfuls in buttered or greased pan, turning only 
once. Serve hot. 


ORANGE GLAZED YAMS 


Boil 4 medium sized potatoes about 20 minutes. Remove from heat, peel 
and slice in 14” slices. Put layer of potatoes in buttered casserole. Melt 1 
cup of orange marmalade with 34, cup of water and 14 stick of butter. Pour 
part on first layer of potatoes; put in other potatoes and pour remaining mar- 
malade mixture over it. Bake 15 minutes. Serves 6. 


POTATOES AU GRATIN 


6 medium sized potatoes, peeled Salt and pepper to taste 
and sliced 5 tbsp. grated cheese 
2 tbsp. butter 2 eggs, well beaten 
2 tbsp. flour 14 cup toasted bread crumbs 
2 cups milk 


Boil the potatoes in salt water 15 minutes. Make a sauce of butter, flour, 
milk and beaten eggs. Put a layer of potatoes in buttered baking pan; cover 
with some of the sauce and 14 the grated cheese. Add another layer of pota- 
toes and the rest of the sauce. Cover with toasted crumbs and remaining 
cheese. Cook in oven until lightly browned, about 10 minutes. Serve hot. 


POTATO CHEESE BOATS 


4 good sized long potatoes 1 cup grated cheese (enough to 
2 tbsp. butter cover potatoes) 
1 tsp. dry mustard (optional) 


Bake potatoes, which have been well washed and greased, until done. Re- 
move from pan and cut open lengthwise. Scoop out the inside (do not break 
the skins); cream well with the butter and other seasonings. Refill the skins 
cover with grated cheese and bake in moderate oven until cheese melts and 
browns slightly. Serves 8. 


VEGETABLES 189 


POTATO PANCAKES 


6 large potatoes 4 tbsp. flour 
1 egg 14 tsp. salt 


Peel and grate potatoes; add egg, salt and flour; stir well. Drop by table- 
spoonfuls into skillet of hot shortening. Fry until brown on both sides. Turn 
once. Serve hot. 


SCALLOPED EGGPLANT 


1 medium eggplant Dash pepper 

14 cup minced onion 114% cups milk 

3 tsp. salt 6 tbsp. melted butter or fortified 
114 cups crumbled soda crackers margarine 


Pare eggplant; then cut in 1” cubes. Boil with minced onion and 2 tsp. 
salt in 14” boiling water, in covered saucepan, until tender, but not mushy— 
about 5 min. Drain well. Spread hailf of cracker crumbs in greased baking 
dish; arrange eggplant and onion on top; then sprinkle with remaining 1 tsp. 
salt and pepper. Top with remaining crumbs. Pour milk in corners of bak- 
ing dish, letting it trickle through and cover bottom of dish. Pour melted but- 
ter over top. Bake in moderately hot oven of 375° F. for 45 minutes. Serves 4. 


SCALLOPED SQUASH 


To 3 cups of cooked squash, add 1 egg well-beaten, 1 tbsp. minced onion, 
] cup sweet milk, 1 tsp. salt and 1 tsp. pepper. Combine these ingredients 
with 2 tbsp. butter and 1 tbsp. bacon drippings. Put in greased casserole 
first, half of the squash mixture and cover with cornflakes; then another lay- 
er of squash and top with cornflakes. Bake in 400° F. oven for 20 min. 


SCALLOPED TOMATOES 


1 No. 3 can tomatoes 4, tsp. black pepper 
4 stick butter or margarine 1 tbsp. cornstarch 

1 cup toast crumbs 2 tbsp. water 

1 tbsp. sugar Dash celery salt 

1 tsp. salt Parmesan cheese 


Put tomatoes in a saucepan with salt, pepper, butter, sugar and celery salt 
and cook 10 minutes. Dissolve cornstarch in 2 tbsp. water; add to the tomato 
mixture, stir in toast crumbs. Put in buttered casserole and bake 15 minutes. 
Just before removing from oven, sprinkle lightly with Parmesan cheese. Serve 


hot. 


190 VEGETABLES 


ae 


SOUR CREAM RICE 


2 cups cooked rice 14 Ib. grated sharp cheese 
14 tsp. sugar 14 pt. sour cream diluted with 
Salt and pepper to taste 14 cup milk 


Pinch of crushed red pepper 


In greased casserole put one layer of rice; sprinkle with sugar, salt, pepper 
and crushed red pepper and layer of cheese. Repeat until casserole is filled, 
then cut in sour cream mixture with knife. Sprinkle with paprika and bake in 
moderate oven until lightly brown. 


SPANISH RICE WITH CHICKEN 


Fry 1 large onion (minced) and 3 or 4 cloves of garlic (minced), in oil, pref- 
erably peanut oil, until yellow. Add a cut-up roasting chicken, 4 or 5 Ibs. 
Season with 114 tbsp. minced parsley. Saute 15 minutes uncovered. Add 
3 cups of water or pea juice (better) and the juice from a can of pimientos. 
Bring to a rapid boil. When boiling, add 14 saltspoon saffron (one 10¢ pkg. 
crushed) and sprinkle in 1 cup washed rice. Lower fire to a simmer and cook 
covered about 20 minutes, or until rice is tender. Stir occasionally to pre- 
vent sticking. Add cut-up pimientos (1 5-oz. can) and a package of frozen 
peas (cooked) the last five minutes to heat thoroughly. 


SPINACH RING 
2 cups spinach, cooked and chopped 14 cup milk 


1 small onion, grated Pinch salt and pepper 
2 tbsp. butter, melted 3 egg yolks 
2 tbsp. flour 3 egg whites 


Make cream sauce with butter, flour, milk and salt and pepper. Cook | 
min.; add spinach, onion, and well-beaten egg yolks. Fold in beaten egg 
whites last. Put in greased mold, put in pan of hot water. Bake 30 minutes 
at 350° F. Unmold on hot platter, fill center with creamed eggs and mush- 
rooms. May be garnished with pickle beets. 


STEAMED CABBAGE 


Cut the hard center of the cabbage out, there will be no odor when cooking. 
2 Ibs. of cabbage, cut in 114,” bits. After thoroughly washing, put in cold 
water for 10 minutes. Drain; put in pot with 1 cup of boiling water and 2 


PsP ecg drippings. Cook 8 minutes. May season with butter if pre- 
erred. 


VEGETABLES 19] 


STUFFED EGGPLANT 


1 large eggplant 1 tbsp. minced onion 
21% tsp. salt 1 egg, beaten 

21% cups day-old bread crumbs 6 slices bacon, diced and 
1, tsp. pepper sauteed 

1 tbsp. minced parsley 1 tbsp. melted butter 


Cut eggplant in half lengthwise. Cook, covered in 14” boiling water to 
which 2 tsp. salt have been added for 10 min., or until tender. Drain; scoop 
out center of each half eggplant, leaving 14.” rim around shell. Sprinkle shell 
lightly with extra salt and pepper. Combine eggplant pulp with 2 cups 
crumbs, 14 tsp. salt, and next 5 ingredients. Fill shells with this mixture; 
then top with remaining 14 cup crumbs, to which butter has been added. Bake 
in 375° F. oven for 30 minutes. Serves 4. 


STUFFED PEPPERS 


6 green peppers 1144 cups moistened bread crumbs 
1144 cups cooked meat (chicken, Salt and pepper 
ham, or veal, minced) 1 tbsp. melted fat 


14 medium onion, grated 


Cut a slice from stem end of each pepper; remove seed and parboil peppers 
10 minutes. M _. minced meat, grated onion and moistened bread crumbs. 
Stuff each pepper with this mixture and place in baking pan. Add water or 
stock from chicken or meat. Bake in moderate oven, 375° F. 30 minutes. 

If peppers are very large, cut in two; fill each half, sprinkle bread crumbs 
lightly on top, bake and serve. 


STUFFED SQUASH 


6 yellow squash Salt and pepper 
Butter size of walnut | 1 cup bread crumbs 
1 egg, beaten 


Boil squash 10 min., remove from saucepan. Cut out good sized opening 
—save and mash what is removed with butter, beaten egg, salt, pepper and 
bread crumbs. Fill the squash with the mixture, put in baking dish and bake 
15 minutes at 400° F. Serves 6. 


SWEET POTATOES en SURPRISE 


Boil 4 medium sized sweet potatoes in water until done. Remove from heat, 
peel and run through potato ricer. Add 14, stick butter; cool. Shape in balls, 
putting a large marshmallow in each ball. Beat 1 egg until light; dip each 
ball in the egg, roll in crushed cornflakes. Fry in deep fat until brown. Fry 
only a few at the time. Delicious with any meat or fowl. 


192 VEGETABLES 


DRS On I Rr ck en NO 


SWEET POTATOES IN ORANGE CUPS 


To 3 cups of cooked and creamed sweet pototoes, add 14 stick of butter, 
melted with 14 cup of sugar, 14 cup of seeded raisins, 14 cup of chopped wal- 
nuts and 14 cup sherry wine. Cut 4 good sized oranges in half; remove seg- 
ments, save segments and juice. Remove as much of the white film from 
orange rinds as possible. Fill with the sweet potato mixture. Put in pan and 
let get hot. Put large marshmallow on top of each orange filled cup and let 
get slightly brown. Delicious with roasts, steaks and fowls. 


TOMATOES A LA CREOLE 


1 large green sweet pepper 4 good sized tomatoes 

1 small onion Salt, pepper and butter to season 
Sauce: 

4 cup milk 1 tbsp. flour 

14 cup cream 1 tbsp. butter 


Peel the tomatoes and cut them in two. Put them in a baking pan, cover- 
ing each with a slice of onion and chopped pepper. Dot liberally with butter, 
salt and pepper. Bake until vegetables are done. Remove from heat and 
keep hot. 


Sauce: To the liquor in the pan, add the milk and cream. Rub the flour 
and butter and stir them in the sauce with the salt and pepper. Cook until 
the sauce thickens. Put the tomatoes on slices of hot toast; pour the sauce 
over them and serve hot. 


ZUCCHINI IN CREAM 


Simmer 10 min. in water to cover: 6 small zucchini, in 14” slices. Drain 


zucchini; turn into 8° pie plate. Start heating oven to 375° F. In small 
saucepan combine: 


74 cup commercial sour cream 4 cup grated sharp Cheddar cheese 
1 tbsp. butter or margarine l4 tsp. seasoned salt 


Heat, stirring, until blended. Pour over zucchini. Top with: 


3 tbsp. fresh bread crumbs 2 tbsp. grated sharp Cheddar cheese 


Bake 10 min., or until crumbs are golden. Let stand 5 min. Makes 4 serv- 
ings. 


VEGETABLES 193 


ZUCCHINI WITH EGGS 


In large skillet heat: 3 tbsp. olive oil. In it, saute until tender-crisp: 6 small 
zucchini, in 14.” slices. Meanwhile, preheat broiler 10 min. or as manufac- 
turer directs. Combine: 


4 eggs, beaten 4 tsp. pepper 
14 tsp. seasoned salt 14 cup grated Parmesan cheese 


Pour egg mixture over zucchini; cook, without stirring, over low heat until 
edges are lightly browned. Then run skillet under broiler just until eggs are 
golden. To serve, cut in wedges. Makes 4 to 6 servings. 


SALADS 


AVOCADO AND GRAPEFRUIT SALAD 


Get 6 grapefruit and 4 avocados. Cut peel from grapefruit and slice fruit 
into sections. This can be done early in the day. Later, about 2 hours be- 
fore serving time, peel skin from avocados, cut in half, remove stones and put 
avocados into lemon or grapefruit juice diluted with water. Have a variety 
of crisp salad greens. To assemble salad, cut the avocados into strips the 
long way, combine with grapefruit sections and arrange on salad greens. Serve 
with roquefort dressing. 


CABBAGE SALAD SUPREME 


1 pkg. lemon gelatin 2 tbsp. minced green peppers 
14% cups boiling water 2 tbsp. minced pimientos 

1 cup chopped cabbage 4 tsp. salt 

14 cup crushed pineapple 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

Y, cup diced celery 2 tbsp. mayonnaise 


Dissolve gelatin in water. Cool, add rest of ingredients and pour into shal- 
low mold. Chill until firm, unmold on lettuce and top with dressing. 


Dressing: 
14 cup whipped cream 24 cup stiff mayonnaise 
1 tbsp. lemon juice 2 tbsp. French dressing 


Chill ingredients, combine and serve immediately. 


CHICKEN SALAD 


3 cups cooked chicken, cut in 14” bits. 114 cups finely diced celery. 
Enough mayonnaise to mix to serving consistency. 2 tbsp. chopped sweet 
pickle may be added, if desired. 


CHICKEN AND PINEAPPLE SALAD 


1. Sprinkle 1 envelope unflavored gelatine on 1 cup cold chicken stock or 
bouillon to soften. 


2. Add 1 cup hot chicken stock or bouillon and stir until gelatine is thorough- 
ly dissolved. 


194 


SALADS ede 


3. Add 1% tsp. salt, 2 tbsp. lemon juice and 14, cup canned pineapple syrup. 

4. Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency. 

S. Fold in 1144 cups diced cooked chicken, 14 cup drained canned crushed 
pineapple and 14 cup diced celery. 

6. Turn into a 3 cup mold or individual molds and chill until firm. 

7. Unmold on salad greens and serve with mayonnaise or salad dressing. 

8. Makes 6 servings. 


“If fresh or frozen pineapple syrup or juice is used, boil 2 minutes before com- 
bining with gelatine. 


CRAB MEAT SALAD 


2 tbsp. instant minced onion 3 tbsp. tarragon vinegar 

l, cup chili sauce 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

1, cup mayonnaise 2 cups diced flaked crab meat 
1 tsp. salt 4 hard cooked eggs, diced 

14 tsp. dry powdered mustard 1 medium green pepper, diced 


1 tsp. ground black pepper 


Combine onion, chili sauce, mayonnaise, salt, mustard, pepper, vinegar 
and lemon juice and blend. Combine crab meat, eggs and green pepper. 
Add dressing, and toss lightly. Serve on beds of lettuce. Garnish with green 
pepper rings. Makes 4 main dish servings. 

If you feel adventurous, add 3 chopped drained anchovy filets to the salad. 
If anchovies are added, decrease the amount of salt used, for anchovies are 
quite salty, you know. 


CRANBERRY SALAD 


Cook 1 quart cranberries in 314 cups water for 30 minutes. Soak 2 tbsp. 
gelatine in 14 cup cold water. Strain the cranberry mixture over it, and stir 
until dissolved. Let stand until cool. When cool, add 1 cup chopped black 
walnuts, 1 cup diced pineapple and | cup seeded white grapes. Pour into 
wet molds. Chill overnight. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise or boil- 
ed dressing. Garnish with parsley. 


CUCUMBER ASPIC 
1 pkg. lime gelatin 14 tsp. salt 
114 cups water Dash white pepper 
2 tbsp. vinegar 1 cup grated small cucumbers 


1 tsp. grated onion (may be omitted) 


Dissolve the gelatin in 1 cup hot water; when thoroughly dissolved, add 14 
cup cold water, vinegar and seasonings; chill until slightly thickened. Add 
the diced cucumber and fill into small molds; set in a cold place until firm. 
Serve on crisp lettuce with dressing; garnish with paprika. 


196 SALADS 





EGYPTIAN SALAD 


1 4-lb. pkg. cream cheese 1 small can crushed pineapple 
14 cup pecans, chopped 1 pkg. lime jello 
1 cup diced celery 134, cups hot water 


1 pinch of salt 


Mash cheese, blend in pineapple; add nuts and celery. Dissolve gelatin in 
water. When cool, mix with cheese. Pour into individual molds, place in 
refrigerator until congealed. Serve with favorite salad dressing on lettuce. 


FRUIT SALAD SUPREME 


1 Ib. malaga grapes, seeded 1 cup diced celery 

and halved 1 cup chopped pecan meats 
1 can white cherries, seeded and 

halved 


Let 4 tbsp. vinegar, 2 tbsp. lemon juice, 1 tbsp. butter, 14 tbsp. ground mus- 
tard, 114 tsp. salt, 2 tbsp. sugar and 1 small pinch of cayenne pepper all come 
to a boiling point. Then beat in 2 well beaten eggs. Let the above mixture 
cool. When cool beat in 14 pt. whipped cream. Beat into this dressing the 
grapes, cherries, celery and nuts. Next beat in quickly | tbsp. of gelatin dis- 
solved in 14 cup of the cherry syrup, drained from the cherries. Beat the 
gelatin fast so it will not lump. Blend all other ingredients with gelatin, put 
in molds or refrigerator trays to congeal. Donot freebe. This salad does not 
need any dressing. Serve on lettuce. 


GINGER ALE SALAD 


1 pkg. lemon or lime jello 4 tbsp. celery, finely chopped 

14 cup boiling water 1 tbsp. crystallized ginger, finely 
114 cups ginger ale cut, if desired 

4 tbsp. nuts, finely chopped 1 cup assorted fruits, diced 


Dissolve jello in boiling water, placing it over hot water if necessary. Chill. 
Add ginger ale. When slightly thickened, fold in nuts, celery, ginger and 
fruits. Turn into individual molds. Chill until firm. Unmold on crisp let- 
tuce. Serve with cream cheese dressing. 


LIME PEACH SALAD 


1 pkg. lime jello—prepare according to directions on box. In refrigerator 
tray, put halves of sweet pickle peaches; then pour lime jello over them and 
put in refrigerator to set. Serve on lettuce with cream cheese dressing. 


SALADS [avd 





LIME VEGETABLE AND FRUIT SALAD 


1 pkg. lime jello 1 cup thinly sliced apples 
1 cup boiling water 1 cup ice water 
1 cup grated cabbage Juice of 1 lemon 


1 cup grated pineapple 


Dissolve jello in hot water, then add ice water and other ingredients. Mix 
well and pour in molds and put in refrigerator to congeal. Serve with Roque- 
fort cheese dressing. 


MOLDED CRANBERRY SALAD 


Drain 1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple. Add enough water to the pineapple 
syrup to make | cup liquid, then soften 3 envelopes lemon gelatin and 2 
envelopes unflavored gelatin in the syrup. Cook 114 lbs. fresh cranberries in 
3 cups water until skins pop. Drain cranberries and add 3 cups hot cranberry 
juice to the gelatin mixture (if necessary add boiling water to make 3 cups). 
Puree cranberries and stir in 114 cups sugar, 1 tsp. cinnamon and 1% tsp. nut- 
meg. Chop enough celery and walnuts to make 114 cups each. Add the 
celery, walnuts, pureed cranberries, | cup crushed pineapple, | finely ground 
orange and the juice of 1 lemon to gelatin mixture. Pour into a 3-quart 
ring mold and chill until firm. Unmold on crisp lettuce and serve with a 
mayonnaise fruit dressing. Makes 10 to 12 servings. 


ORANGE BLOSSOM SALAD 


2 pkg. orange jello Segments of 2 oranges, diced 

1 can white cherries 1 cup whipping cream, beaten stiff 
1 can crushed pineapple 1 cup sherry wine 

Juice of 2 lemons 14 cup mayonnaise 


Dissolve jello in heated juice of cherries; add 2 cups boiling water. When 
jello has completely melted ,add other ingredients. Mix well and pour into 
individual molds or one large mold. Put in refrigerator to congeal. Serve 
on crisp lettuce, topping with your favorite salad dressing. 


ORANGE SUMMER SALAD 


On lettuce-covered salad plates, arrange 5 or 6 segments of Sunkist Orange, 
from which enveloping membrane has been removed; 5 or 6 strawberries; and 
5 or 6 stoned white cherries. Serve with any desired dressing. 


198 SALADS 


ORIGINAL PERFECTION SALAD 
1. Mix 1 envelope unflavored gelatin, 14, cup sugar and 14 tsp. salt together 
thoroughly in a saucepan. 


2. Add 114 cups water and stir over medium heat until gelatin and sugar are 
thoroughly dissolved. 


3. Remove from heat. Add 14 cup mild vinegar and 1 tbsp. lemon juice. 
Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency. 


4. Fold in 14 cup finely shredded cabbage, 1 cup chopped celery and | pi- 
miento, cut in small pieces or 2 tbsp. chopped sweet red or green pepper. 


5. Turn into individual molds and chill until firm. Serve on lettuce, top 
with mayonnaise dressing. 


6. Makes 4 servings. 


PORT WINE SALAD 
1 can black pitted cherries 1 cup Port wine 
1 pkg. cherry jello 14 cup almonds or pineapple 


Heat juice and pour over jello. Stir until dissolved and cool. Add wine, 
cherries and almonds. Pour into molds and put in refrigerator. Serves 10. 


PEAR SALAD 


Mix a pkg. cream cheese with a little sweet cream and add a few chopped 
nuts to it. Fill the centers of two halves of canned pears with the mixture 
and fasten the halves together with a tooth pick. The salad can be made 
more attractive by coloring one of the sides of the pear with a little pink 
vegetable coloring or beet juice. To add to the naturalness of the effect, 
stick a stem with one or two green leaves into the stem of the pear, and a clove 
in the blossom end. Set the pear on a lettuce leaf and serve with nut 
dressing. 


Nut Dressing: 


To 4 tbsp. lemon juice, add 12 tbsp. wesson oil, Itsp. salt, 14 tsp. Sugar, 


pinch white pepper, and 14 tsp. paprika. Beat the ingredients and then add 
4 tbsp. finely chopped nuts. 


SHRIMP TOMATO MOLD 


I. Sprinkle 1 envelope unflavored gelatin on 14 cup cold tomato juice to 
soften. 


2. Add 114 cups hot tomato juice and stir until gelatin is thoroughly dis- 
solved. 


SALADS hoy 


3. Stir in 14 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. horseradish and 1 tbsp. lemon juice. 
4. Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency. 


5. Add 1% cup diced celery, 2 tbsp. diced green pepper and 1 cup cooked or 
canned shrimp. 


6. Turn into a 3-cup mold or individual molds and chill until firm. 


7. Unmold on salad greens and serve with mayonnaise. 


TOMATO ASPIC 


1 qt. can tomatoes 1 heaping tbsp. whole cloves 
2 medium sized onions 3 tbsp. vinegar 
1 scant tbsp. salt 14 cup water or chicken broth 


Cut up onions and add all ingredients above. Let come toa boil 20 min- 
utes. Dissolve 1 pkg. gelatin in 14 cup cold water, add the cooked mixture 
while hot; strain and pour into molds. 


A tbsp. lemon juice and a tbsp. Worcestershire sauce may be added, if 
desired. 


TOMATO ASPIC SALAD 
2 envelopes gelatin 1 can tomato soup 
1 cup cold water 1 cup hot water 


4 tsp. salt 


Soak gelatin in cold water 8 minutes. Heat soup with the hot water; pour 
in gelatin and stir until dissolved. Add juice of 1 lemon, 4 cup chopped 
celery, 1 tbsp. minced onion, 14 cup pickles chopped, 14, cup stuffed olives, 
1% tsp. salt and a dash of black pepper. Put in refrigerator to congeal. Serve 
on lettuce; top with dressing. 


VEGETABLE SALAD 


1 cup tomato juice 14 cup water 
1 can Veg-All (canned mixed 14 tsp. salt 
vegetables) 14 cup vinegar 


14 cup liquid from Veg-All 


Heat tomato juice, vinegar, water and liquid together; add 1 pkg. Royal 
aspic and then the drained Veg-All. Mix and set aside to congeal. Serve 
on crisp lettuce with Taregon Dressing. 


200 SALADS 


WALDORF SALAD 


1. Mix 1 envelope unflavored gelatin, 14 cup sugar and 14 tsp. salt together 
thoroughly in a saucepan. 


2. Add 114 cups water and stir over medium heat until gelatin and sugar 
are thoroughly dissolved. 


3. Add \% tsp. salt, 2 tbsp. lemon juice, and 14, cup canned pineapple syrup. 
Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency. 


5. Fold in 144 cup diced cooked chicken, 14 cup drained canned crushed 
pineapple, and 14 cup diced celery. 


6. Turn into a 3-cup mold or individual molds and chill until firm. 
7. Unmold on salad greens and serve with mayonnaise or salad dressing. 
8. Makes 8 servings. 


*If fresh or frozen pineapple, syrup or juice is used, boil 2 minutes before 
combining with gelatin. 


YUM YUM SALAD 


2 cups crushed pineapple 1 lemon 
1 cup sugar 1 pint whipping cream 
14 cup cold water 2 tbsp. gelatin 


1 cup grated cheese 


Dissolve | cup sugar in juice of 1 lemon. Soak 2 tbsp. gelatin in 14 cup 
cold water 10 minutes. Heat juice from pineapple and pour over gelatin 
which has been soaked, and the sugar and lemon juice. Mix thoroughly. Let 
stand in refrigerator until partly congealed, about 20 or 30 minutes. Then 
whip with egg beater until thick like whipped cream. Whip 1% pint thick 
cream and add to above mixture. Add grated cheese and pineapple. Set in 
molds in a cool place until ready to serve. Serve on crisp lettuce with may- 
onnaise dressing. 


SAUCES 


ALLEMANDE 


A variation of veloute (recipe listed under sauces). Add 1 egg yolk, 1 tbsp. 
liquid drained from canned mushrooms, | tbsp. lemon juice and 3 tbsp. grated 
Parmesan cheese to a recipe of veloute. Serve on Chicken or ham croquettes, 
fish or meat loaf. 


APRICOT SAUCE 


1 12-0z. can apricot nectar, 8 canned whole apricots, drained 
undiluted 2 tbsp. lemon juice 
14 cup granulated sugar 


In saucepan, simmer apricot nectar with sugar 20 min., or until it becomes 
a thick syrup. Meanwhile, pit and halve apricots. Add apricot halves and 
lemon juice to syrup; heat 5 min., serve hot. Makes 2 cups. 


AVOCADO SAUCE 


Peel and remove seed of 2 avocados. Mash to a smooth paste; add the 
juice of 1 lemon and 2 limes, salt and pepper to taste, 1 tbsp. mayonnaise 
and | tsp. grated onion. Wiéix well and stir in 1 cup of French Dressing. This 
is delicious served on tomatoes, lettuce or meats and chicken. 


BARBECUE SAUCE 
1 pt. vinegar 14 cup black pepper 
1 pt. water 14 cup red pepper 
14 pt. catsup 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 stick butter 1 tbsp, flour for thickening 


Stir flour in smooth paste with a little of the water. Blend with all other 
ingredients and bring to boiling point. Serve with meats or fowl. 


BLUE CHEESE SAUCE 


Mash 1 clove of garlic and add 2 tbsp. olive oil. Blend in 14 cup crumbled 
blue cheese and 2 tbsp. of sherry. Spread on top of steak while hot and run 
under broiler until cheese melts and browns slightly. 


201 


202 SAUCES 





BECHAMEL SAUCE 


1 cup chicken stock or 1 bouillon Dash pepper 

cube in 1 cup water 14 tbsp. paprika 
14 cup butter, melted 1 cup coffee cream 
3 tbsp. flour 2 tsp. lemon juice 
14 tsp. salt 4 sliced olives 


Blend butter, flour and seasonings; add combined stock and cream. Cook 


until thick. Remove from fire, add lemon juice and olives finely cut, mix 
well. May be served over oysters or fish fillets. 


ly. 


peppers lightly in 14 cup of oil. Blend in 2 tbsp. flo 
taste, | tsp. monsodium glutamate, 2 cups canned to 
powder. Simmer 10 minutes. 


CHEESE SAUCE 


2 tbsp. butter 14 cup cheddar cheese 
2 tbsp. flour 1 tbsp. lemon juice 
1 cup milk 4 tsp. salt 


Melt butter; add flour and milk slowly. Cook until thick, stirring constant- 


Add other ingredients, stir well and serve while hot. 
COCKTAIL SAUCE 
14 cup tomato catsup Dash tabasco 
2 tbsp. horseradish ~ 4 tsp. salt 


3 tbsp. lemon juice 


Mix these ingredients and add 1 tbsp. minced onion. Chill before serving. 


CREOLE SAUCE | 


4 egg yolks 1 stick butter 

2 tbsp. taragon vinegar 14 cup water 

2 tbsp. grated onion 2 beef bouillon cubes, melted in 
14 tsp. salt and pepper water 


Beat the egg yolks well; put in double boiler with other ingredients, stirring 


constantly until thick as heavy cream. Nice to serve with meats or fish. 


CREOLE SAUCE Il 


Brown 2 slices of onions, 2 chopped ribs of celery, 14 cup chopped green 
ur, salt and pepper to 


matoes and | tsp. chili 


A versatile sauce for meats and vegetables. 





SAUCES 203 


CUCUMBER SAUCE 


2 cucumbers 2 tbsp. olive oil 
1 tsp. lemon juice 1 tbsp. vinegar 
1 tsp. onion juice Salt and pepper to taste 


Peel the cucumbers and then grate them; drain well to remove moisture, 
add onion juice, lemon juice, oil, vinegar and seasonings. Blend well and 
serve as soon as made. Very good with shrimp or other seafood. 


EGGNOG SAUCE 


2 eggs 14 cup apple brandy or sherry wine 
1 cup double rich cream 2 tbsp. sugar 


Separate the eggs. Whip the whites stiff, but not dry. Whip the cream 
almost to butter; then whip the yolks of the egg until they are light. Add 
the brandy beating briskly, then the sugar and egg whites. Lastly the cream; 
beat 2 or 3 minutes hard. A delicious sauce for puddings. 


FISH SAUCE 
1 small jar gherkins 14 bunch shallots 
1 small par capers 3/, cup olive oil 
14 bunch parsley 14 cup Wesson oil 


Cut the gherkins, capers, parsley and shallots very, very fine. Heat the 
oils, add the chopped ingredients. Continue to simmer for 5 min. Serve with 
fish or seafoods. 


FOAMY SAUCE 


1 cup powdered sugar 1 egg white 
4 cup boiling water 4 tbsp. Sherry 
14 cup butter 


Cream butter and sugar; add the boiling water to the stiffly beaten egg 
whites. Blend with the butter and sugar mixture and the Sherry wine. Deli- 
cious with puddings. Serve at once. 


HARD SAUCE 
\ stick butter Sherry wine or brandy 
1 cup sugar Nutmeg 


Cream butter and sugar together; add brandy or sherry and beat until con- 

sistency of stiffly beaten cream. More sugar may be added if necessary. 
| Sprinkle with grated nutmeg when served. Very good with steamed or fruit 
_ puddings. 


204 SAUCES 


HOLLANDAISE SAUCE I 


Juice of 14 lemon 4 tsp. salt 
2 unbeaten egg yolks Dash cayenne 
14 cup butter 


Add lemon juice to egg yolks. Cut butter into 3 parts and add | part to 
egg yolks. Cook over hot, not boiling water, stirring constantly until butter 
is melted and sauce thickens. Add 2nd part of butter and stir again until 
butter melts and sauce thickens up more. Repeat with 3rd part of butter; 
stir until thick as mayonnaise. Remove from heat, stir seasonings into sauce 
and beat with a wire whisk until shiny, about 14 minute. If sauce curdles, 
beat in 2 tbsp. boiling water until smooth again. 


HOLLANDAISE SAUCE II 


2 tbsp. butter Yolks of 2 eggs 
1 tbsp. flour 14 tsp. salt 
Juice of 14 lemon Dash cayenne pepper 


Blend butter with flour, cook over hot water until slightly thickened. To 
this add the juice of lemon and salt. Remove from heat and beat in egg 
yolks. Beat 1 minute and serve. 


HOMEMADE MAYONNAISE 


Rinse a mixing bowl in very hot water and dry thoroughly. In it beat 2 
egg yolks. Add 1% tsp. dry mustard and 1 tsp. vinegar. Continue beating 
and begin adding | cup salad oil, drop by drop, until a little more than 1, cup 
has been added. 

Add 1% tsp. vinegar, still beating, and add remaining oil little by little. 
Finish by beating in another 1% tsp. vinegar. 


This mayonnaise puts a halo on salads. It can be used for the basis for 
other salad dressings. 


MUSHROOM SAUCE 


114 tbsp. butter 1 bay leaf 
2 tbsp. flour 1 slice of onion 
114 cups stock 1 cup mushrooms 


Cook the butter and flour together until slightly browned; add the st 
((chicken or beef) or 2 bouillon cubes in 114 cups water. Add the eniaes a 
bay leaf and cook 10 minutes. Remove the onion and bay leaf and add the 
sliced mushrooms. If the mushrooms are fresh, cook in a little water with 


a little butter for 5 minutes; add to the sauce and cook 5 minutes more. Sea- 
son and serve. 


SAUCES 205 


LEMON SAUCE SUPERB 


Cream 1 Ib. butter, 114, cups sugar; add 4 egg yolks, one at the time, beat- 
ing briskly each time. Add juice of 2 lemons, still beating rapidly; add 3%, tsp. 
vanilla. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites and lastly 1 cup of stiffly beaten 
cream. Take an angel cake, split as a layer cake; fill with sauce, then cover 
all with remaining sauce. 


MUSTARD MAYONNAISE SAUCE 


1 egg yolk Pinch cayenne 

T tsp. salt - 2 tbsp. wine, vinegar or lemon juice 
1 tsp. dry mustard 1 cup salad oil 

4, tsp. granulated sugar 1 tbsp. minced onion 

4 tsp. paprika 1 tbsp. minced parsley 


Beat yolks with hand or electric beater at high speed until thick and lemon- 
colored. Combine seasonings, and add, beating well. Beat in 1 tbsp. vinegar. 
Add oil, 14 tsp. at a time, while beating, until 14, cup is used; then 1 to 2 tbsp. 
may be added at atime. When mixture is thickened, beat in remaining vin- 
egar, then rest of oil gradually. Stir in minced onion and parsley. Makes 
114 cups. Serve with broiled or fried fish, or as a salad dressing. 


PARSLEY SAUCE 


2 tbsp. butter 1 tsp. lemon juice 
2 tbsp. flour Salt and pepper to taste 
T cup milk | 2 tbsp. chopped parsley 


Put the butter and flour together in a saucepan, blend thoroughly; add the 
milk, a little at the time, stirring constantly until it boils. Cook 5 min. Add 
he salt, pepper and lemon juice. Just before serving add the chopped parsley. 
Delicious with new white potatoes (add a little grated cheese to sauce before 
serving). Also delicious with broiled fish. 


PICKWICK COCKTAIL SAUCE 


1 cup mayonnaise 1 tbsp. A-1 sauce 
1 cup chili sauce 14 tsp. anchovy paste 
1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tsp. horseradish 


3 dashes tobasco 


Mix well and serve chilled over crab or shrimp. 


RAISIN SAUCE 


A favorite with ham. Mix 14 cup brown sugar, | tbsp. mustard, dash of 
salt and pepper. Add 134 cups hot water and 14, cup vinegar or sherry. Cook 
over low heat about 10 minutes. Add 1 tbsp. butter. Heat and serve. 


206 SAUCES 


SAUCE LAMAZE 


1 cup mayonnaise 1 tsp. minced chives 

VY, cup chili sauce 1 tsp. minced green pepper 

14 cup drained pickle, relish 1 tsp. finely chopped pimiento 

1 hard cooked egg, finely chopped Freshly ground black pepper, to 
1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce taste 

2 tbsp. minced celery 14 tsp. monsodium glutamate 


Have mayonnaise at room temperature; fold in all ingredients lightly. 
Makes 2 cups. 


SAUCE NICOISE 


Finely chop 1 small green pepper. Add 1 cup mayonnaise along with 1% tsp. 
each of chopped tarragon and chives or green onions and | tbsp. tomato paste. 

For Russian dressing, add 3 tbsp. chili sauce, | tsp. each of finely chopped 
pimientos and chives. Wonderful on avocado salads. 


SAUCE REMOULADE 


Add 44 cup finely chopped drained sour pickles, 2 tbsp. drained chopped 
capers, | tbsp. prepared mustard, | tbsp. of mixed chopped parsley, tarragon 
and chevil to 2 cups mayonnaise. 

Serve sauce Lamaze on plain lettuce or on a salad of cooked vegetables. 


SOUBISE 


Cook 2 cups finely minced onions in a little butter until golden. Add 1 
cup medium cream sauce, heat and serve. Serve with vegetables, veal or 
hard cooked eggs. 


TOFFEE SAUCE 


14 cup old fashioned molasses 1 tbsp. cider or white vinegar 

1 cup firmly packed dk. brown sugar 1 tbsp. butter or margarine 

4, tsp. salt 14 tsp. vanilla 

4 cup water 14 cup undiluted evaporated milk 


Ina 244 quart saucepan, mix together the molasses, sugar, salt, water and 
vinegar. Cook over moderate heat, without stirring, for 10 minutes, or until 
candy thermometer registers 232 degrees or when a small amount dropped in 
very cold water forms a soft ball. Remove from heat; stir in butter and 
vanilla. Cool; stir in evaporated milk. Makes 1 cup. 


TARTAR SAUCE 


To 1 cup mayonnaise add 1 tbsp. tarragon vinegar, 3 tbsp. drained sweet 
pickle relish, | tbsp. dried dill seed, 1 tsp. dried parsley flakes, pinch of salt 
14 tsp. Worcestershire sauce, dash of tabasco and pinch of dry mustard. 
Blend and serve on seafood. 


SAUCES 207 


VELOUTE 


A cream sauce made with 2 tbsp. each of butter and flour and 1 cup well- 
seasoned chicken broth. Season with salt and white pepper. 


VINAIGRETTE 


To 1% cup French dressing add 1 tbsp. minced green pepper, | tsp. chopped 
chives or green onions, | tsp. chopped parsley, | tsp. chopped capers, | tbsp. 
chopped olives and | tbsp. pickle relish. Serve cold on hot or cold vegetables, 
cold meats or hard cooked eggs. 


WHITE SAUCE 


A white sauce should be no problem. Fora thin one, use | tbsp. each of 
butter and flour to | cup liquid; for a medium sauce, 2 tbsp. of each to 1 cup 
liquid; for a thick sauce, 4 tbsp. each to | cup liquid. 


Use a thin cream sauce for soups, a medium one for dishes like chicken 
a la king and as a base for making cheese sauce, a thick one for binding cro- 
quette ingredients. | 

To make cream sauce, melt butter over low heat. Add flour and blend. 
Add liquid at once. Cook stirring, until smooth and thickened. 

A wide variety of seasonings may be added to medium cream sauce to pre- 
pare it to blend with all sorts of foods. Add dry mustard, grated sharp 
cheese, horseradish, curry powder, etc., for example. 


WINE SAUCE 
1 tbsp. butter or margarine 2 whole cloves 
1 tbsp. snipped chives Pinch of allspice 
2 tbsp. flour 1 small clove garlic, crushed 
1 cup dry red table wine 1 tbsp. chopped parsley 
1 can beef consomme 1 tsp. lemon juice 


5 whole peppercorns 


Melt butter in a saucepan. Add chives. Cook over very low heat 2 min. 
Stir in flour; continue to cook and stir until flour is golden brown. Add wine, 
consomme, peppercorns, whole cloves, allspice and garlic. Bring to a boil; 
lower heat and simmer 15 min., stirring occasionally. Strain through a fine 
sieve into another saucepan. Add parsley and lemon juice. Reheat. Makes 


114 cups. 


ZINGARA 


Zingara sauce is a white wine sauce with meat essence, minced mushrooms, 
truffles, ham and tongue with a good sprinkling of cayenne pepper. 


SANDWICHES 


BACON AND TOMATO 


8 strips bacon Salad dressing 
4-6 ripe tomatoes Butter or margarine 
Salt and pepper 16 slices bread 


Panfry or broil bacon until crisp. Slice tomatoes thin. Toast bread and 
spread with butter or margarine. Serve with bacon, sliced tomatoes sprinkled 
with salt and pepper, and spread with salad dressing. This preparation 
makes 8 sandwiches. 


CLUB SANDWICH 


Toasted bread Slices of tomatoes 
Slices of bacon Lettuce 
White meat of chicken Mayonnaise 


Butter lightly a slice of bread and lay on it slices of thin broiled bacon. 
Over this place slices of the white chicken meat, then tomatoes, lettuce and a 
good serving of mayonnaise. Lay another slice of buttered toast over the 
top and serve at once. 


COLD MEAT SANDWICHES 


Sliced Meat: Place slices of cold roast beef, pork, veal, chicken, or turkey 
(season with a little salt); meat loaf, ham, tongue or corned beef between 
slices of buttered bread. Cut and wrap in waxed paper. Include radishes, 
green peppers, carrot sticks, sliced tomato, pickles or olives wrapped in waxed 
paper. Occasionally spread bread with Savory butter for appetizing flavor. 


Chopped Meat: Place cut cooked meat on wooden board and chop fine 
with knife. Combine with ingredients such as diced celery, minced green 


pepper, chopped pickle and salad dressing. Spread between buttered slices 
of thin-sliced bread. 


Luncheon Meat: Combine 11% cups luncheon or ready-to-serve meat put 
through food chopper with 14 cup grated raw carrots, salt, pepper and salad 
dressing. Store covered in refrigerator. (10 to 12 sandwiches). 


208 


SANDWICHES 209 


CHICKEN SALAD SANDWICHES 


3 cups cold cooked chicken 1 tbsp. lemon juice 
2 cups diced celery Enough mayonnaise to mix to 
Salt and pepper right consistency to spread 


The sandwiches may be made with either white or whole wheat bread. 
Butter the bread and fill with the chicken salad. Cut diagonally or in strips. 
A little India relish or finely chopped sweet pickle may be mixed in the 
chicken salad, if desired. 


DELIGHTFUL CHEESE SPREADS 


2 tbsp. butter or margarine 1 cup milk 
1 tsp. dry mustard 1 cup grated cheese 
2 tbsp. flour salt and pepper 


Melt butter or margarine; stir in mustard and flour; gradually add milk 
and stir until smooth and thickened. Cook 5 minutes. Add grated American 
cheese and cook over low heat, stirring continually until cheese is melted. 
Turn into glass jar; when cool, cover and store in the refrigerator. Spread 
for 8 to 10 sandwiches. 


Savory Cheese Spread: Add 14, cup chopped pimiento, pickle relish, chop- 
ped olives or 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce to the cooked filling. 


Quick Cheese Sandwiches: Spread buttered bread with prepared mustard; 
add slice of American cheese and cover with buttered bread. Cut in triangles. 


MINCED CHICKEN 


114 cups minced cooked chicken 1, cup mayonnaise 
1 hard-cooked egg Salt and pepper 
14 tsp. grated onion Thin-sliced bread 


Combine minced chicken, riced or sieved hard-cooked egg, seasonings and 
mayonnaise. Spread thin sliced bread with soft butter or margarine; add 
filling and cover with buttered bread. Trim crusts; cut in small squares, tri- 
angles, strips, etc. or cut bread with fancy cutters; spread with butter, filling 
and cover as above. Makes about 75 sandwiches. 


MONACO SANDWICHES 
Yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs 2 tbsp. shrimp paste 
3 tbsp. butter Salt and pepper to taste 


Put the yolks of eggs in a bowl with the butter and rub until smooth with 
the back of a spoon. Add the salt and pepper and fish paste and 1 tbsp. of 
mayonnaise. Spread rather thickly between buttered bread. Cut in shapes 
‘as desired. 


210. SANDWICHES 


OPEN FACE CRAB SANDWICH 


3/, cup fresh mushrooms, finel 6 slices bread, crusts removed 
chopped | 1 can (6 oz.) crabmeat 

2 tbsp. butter 1 egg, beaten 

4 tsp. celery salt Salt and pepper 

6 slices tomato 3/4, cup grated sharp cheese 


Cook mushrooms in butter for a few minutes. Season with celery salt. 
Place a tomato slice on each slice of bread. Place mushrooms on tomato 
slices, dividing evenly. Drain and flake crabmeat and add to egg with salt 
and pepper as desired. Place on top sandwiches. Sprinkle with cheese. Run 
under broiler unti! heated and cheese is melted. Makes 6 sandwiches. 


OPEN FACE CREAM CHEESE SANDWICH 


Cut the bread in triangles, diamond or strips. Mix cream cheese (2 2-oz. 
pkgs.); add grated cucumber, pimiento or other flavorings. Put in pastry tube 
and flute the edges of sandwiches which have been spread with the cream 
mixture. May be garnished with slices of stuffed olives. Color may be added 
to any or all of cheese mixture as desired. 


ROAST BEEF 


For individual servings, place hot sliced beef on a slice of bread and cover 
with another slice of bread. Cut in 2 triangles and place on the plate with 
mashed potatoes. Pour a generous amount of medium thin brown gravy 
over the sandwich. Serve as a main dish sandwich plate for lunch or supper 
menus. 

Serve hot roast pork, veal, chicken or turkey sandwiches prepared in the 
same way with mashed, riced or French fried potatoes. Spiced pickle beets 
corn relish, spiced fruit, applesauce or jelly are good accompaniments. 


SALMON AND CELERY 


1 cup flaked salmon 4 tbsp. mayonnaise 
1, cup minced celery Butter or margarine 
14 cup tart apples (diced) Thin sliced bread 


1 tsp. lemon juice 


Combine flaked salmon, celery, apple, lemon juice and mayonnaise. Tuna 
oer fish apne may be substituted for salmon. Spread between butter- 
ed slices of bread—especially good with wheat bread. Cut: w j 
paper. Makes 10 sandwiches. iad cade 


Salmon with Cucumber—Combine flaked salmon, 14 cup finely diced 


drained cucumber, 1 tsp. grated onion, 1 cho 
. : ; pped hard-cooked e 
Pepper and | tbsp. mayonnaise. Filling for 5 or 6 sandwiches. Sciesilan 


SANDWICHES a lat 


SLICED CHICKEN 


114 cups chicken stock Hot sliced chicken 
14 cup milk 8 slices wheat bread 
3 tbsp. cornstarch Parsley or lettuce 
Salt and pepper Spiced peaches 


Heat strained rich chicken stock; gradually add cornstarch mixed with cold 
milk; stir until smooth and thickened. Cook 8 minutes. Place slices of toast- 
ed wheat bread on each plate; lay sliced chicken on top; spoon over gravy. 
Cover with slice of wheat toast, pour gravy and top with a slice of chicken as 
above. Serve hot with spiced peaches or green gage plums. (Serves 4.) 


TUNA SANDWICHES 


1 cup flaked tuna fish Salt and pepper 

1 tsp. lemon juice 4 tbsp. salad dressing 
14 cup diced celery Butter or margarine 
2 tbsp. minced parsley White or wheat bread 


Mix flaked tuna or other cooked fish with lemon juice, chopped hard-cook- 
ed eggs, celery, parsley, salt, pepper and salad dressing. Add milk or addi- 
tional salad dressing to moisten. Spear between buttered slices of white or 
wheat bread. Cut; wrap as individual sandwiches. Include sliced pickles 
and potato chips, wrapped separately. (10 sandwiches.) 


DRESSINGS 


ARGYLE SALAD DRESSING 


1 tbsp. butter 14 cup vinegar 

1 tbsp. sugar 12 marshmallows 

1 tsp. dry mustard 1 cup whipping cream 

4 egg yolks, beaten 14 cup shelled pecans, broken up 


Combine dry ingredients with egg yolks; add vinegar gradually and cook 
slowly until thick, stirring constantly. Add marshmallows and butter, stir 
until melted. Cool slightly; add cream and nutmeats. Delicious with fruit 


salad. 


BOILED DRESSING 


1 tbsp. butter 1 tsp. salt 

1 tbsp. granulated sugar 1 cup milk 

1 tbsp. dry mustard 14 cup vinegar 
3 eggs 


Mix together dry ingredients and blend; add well beaten eggs, then the 
vinegar and finally the milk. Put in double boiler and cook until the con- 
sistency of cream, stirring constantly to prevent lumping. 

Delicious with green salads, cole slaw or fruit salad. 


BUTTERCUP DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALAD 


4 cup flour 4 egg yolks 

14 cup sugar 16 marshmallows 
14 tsp. salt 4 egg whites 

1 cup pineapple juice Whipped cream 


4 cup lemon juice 


Mix flour, sugar and salt with sufficient fruit juice to make a smooth paste. 
Heat remaining fruit juice to boiling point; add sugar mixture. Cook until 
thick. Add beaten egg yolks; remove from fire, add marshmallows. When 
cool, fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. To serve add an equal part of whip- 
ped cream. 


CHEF DRESSING 


To 8 tablespoons of Wesson oil, add 2 tablespoons vinegar, 1 teaspoon salt 
¥4, teaspoon pepper. Add 14 cup of tomato catsup and 14 teaspoon each of 
grated onion and Worcestershire sauce. Combine these ingredients thor- 
oughly. This is very good on shredded lettuce or other green salads. 


212 


DRESSINGS 213 


COLE SLAW DRESSING 


1 egg 1 tbsp. flour 

14 cup sugar 1 tbsp. mustard 

1 tbsp. flour 4 tsp. red pepper 
14 cup vinegar 4 tsp. celery salt 


1 tbsp. butter 


Beat egg until light; add sugar, celery, salt, pepper, butter and vinegar. 
Add remaining ingredients and cook in double boiler, stirring constantly un- 
til thick. This is enough dressing for a 3 pound cabbage. 


COOKED DRESSING FOR SLAW 


1 tbsp. dry mustard 3 eggs 

2 tbsp. sugar 14 cup vinegar 
1 tsp. salt 14 cup water 

1 tbsp. oil 


Mix dry ingredients, add beaten eggs, oil, vinegar and water. Beat to- 
gether well. Cook slowly over hot water, stirring constantly until thick as 
desired. 


CREAM CHEESE DRESSING 


1 cup bulk cream cheese 4 cup mayonnaise 

2 squares Philadelphia cream Salt to taste 
cheese Dash paprika 

1 cup coffee cream 1 tbsp. lemon juice 


Cream the cream cheese and coffee cream together. Add remaining in- 
gredients. This is a delightful dressing for any fruit salad and is especially 
good with pink grapefruit. 


CREOLE DRESSING 


Rub a bowl with garlic. Then pour in 4 tbsp. tomato catsup, 14 tsp. Wor- 
cestershire sauce, 14 tsp. dry mustard, 14 tsp. sugar, 6 drops tabasco sauce, 
12 tbsp. Wesson oil and 3 tbsp. vinegar. Beat these ingredients for a few 
seconds. This makes a well seasoned sauce for cold beef or cold cuts. 


DRESSING FOR COLE SLAW 


114 tsp. salt 5 tbsp. melted butter 
1 tbsp. mustard 114 cups cream 
114 tbsp. sugar 14 cup vinegar 


2 eggs, slightly beaten 


Mix ingredients in order given, adding vinegar very slowly. Cook over boil- 
ing water, striring constantly until mixture thickens. 


214 DRESSINGS 


EASY HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 


Stir 3 egg yolks with a fork to blend. Add the juice of a lemon and stir 
together in a heat-proof bowl. Cut a stick of butter (14 Ib.) into half-inch 
cubes and add. Cover and allow to stand at room temperature for 2 hours or 
longer. 

Just before serving, place the bowl over hot water and stir mixture with a 
silver fork just until it begins to thicken, about 3 or 4 minutes. 

That’s all there is to it! The secret of the success of this sauce must be 
that the lemon juice “cooks” the egg yolks to a certain extent. 


EXCELLENT COLE SLAW DRESSING 


4 tsp. sugar 1 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. dry mustard 2 tbsp. butter or bacon fat 
2 tsp. flour 2 egg yolks 

4 tsp. pepper 1 cup apple vinegar 


Blend sugar, mustard, salt and pepper smoothly; add vinegar. After stir- 
ring place over the fire and when mixture comes to a boil add the butter or 
bacon fat which has been blended with the flour. After 4 minutes of brisk 
boiling, pour on the well beaten egg yolks and beat 5 minutes. 


FRENCH DRESSING DELUXE 


Put | tsp. salt and 2 cloves of garlic in an earthenware salad bowl; cut 
garlic cloves in half, rub in salt, extracting oil from garlic. After extracting 
oil and bowl is well rubbed, throw away garlic. Add 1 tsp. dry mustard, 1 
heaping tsp. sugar, 4 chopped olives, 14 tsp. white pepper, 1 cup vinegar, a 
few drops tabasco and juice of 144 lemon. Marinate thoroughly with wooden 
spoon; then add slowly 2 cups olive oil, stirring until well blended. Pour in 
olive decanter and keep in cool place—do not refrigerate. 


HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 


Beat 4 egg yolks until very thick. (It’s the before hand heating that turns 
the trick!). Melt 14 cup butter or margarine in the double boiler. Remove it 
from the heat, add the well beaten eggs all at one time, stirring swiftly until 
the eggs completely absorb the butter. Blend in the juice of one lemon A 
tsp. salt and a dash of cayenne. Place the double boiler over very low heat 
(Water should not boil). Keep up the stirring until the sauce is the consist- 


ency of whipped cream. Turn off the heat and the sauce will hold its own 
for some time 


HONEY DRESSING 


Mix 2 tablespoons honey with 4 tablespoons lemon juice. Beat into this 
mixture 12 tablespoons Wesson oil, 1 teaspoon salt, 14 teaspoon paprika and 


a pinch of ground white pepper. This is especially good with Waldorf or 
any apple salad. | 


DRESSINGS 215 


MAGIC MAYONNAISE DRESSING 


4 cup lemon juice 1 egg yolk 
4 cup butter, melted 14 tsp. salt 
24 cup sweetened condensed milk 1 tsp. dry mustard 


Place ingredients in a pint jar as listed. Faster top tightly and shake vig- 
orously for 2 minutes. Chill for thick consistency. 


MAYONNAISE DRESSING 


Yolks of 3 eggs 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 tsp. salt Dash tabasco 
1 tbsp. vinegar 1 pint Wesson oil 


14 tsp. dry mustard 


Beat eggs, then add vinegar, salt and mustard which have been beaten to- 
gether. Add Wesson oil, pouring very slowly at first. Add Worcestershire 
sauce and tabasco after adding most of Wesson oil. 


MAYONNAISE FRUIT DRESSING 


Combine 1 cup mayonnaise, 2 tsp. grated orange rind, the juice of 14 
orange, 3 tbsp. sugar, 14 tsp. nutmeg and 14 tsp. cinnamon. Whip one cup 
heavy cream until stiff and fold into mayonnaise. Serve over molded cran- 
berry salad. 


MEXICAN SALAD DRESSING 


Mix 34, tsp. salt, 34, tsp. paprika, 14, tsp. pepper, | tbsp. sugar and 1%, tsp. 
dry mustard together. Blend well. Add juice of 1 lemon and beat very 
smooth. Then add 34, cup vinegar and Icup olive oil. Shake well or beat 
with rotary beater. Now add 1 green pepper, chopped fine, 2 minced onions, 
1 pimento chopped fine, and more salt and pepper if your taste requires it. 


PINEAPPLE DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALAD 


Juice from 1 Ig. can of pineapple 2 eggs 
14 cup sugar 1 tbsp. flour (heaping) 
2 tbsp. butter Juice of 14 lemon 


Blend flour, sugar, butter and yolks of eggs as for a cake; then add whites 
of eggs, beaten stiff, also add lemon juice. Stir the mixture with the boiling 
pineapple juice and stir until thick as heavy cream. Let stand until cool. 
Then down with heavy cream. 


216 DRESSINGS 


RAVIOLI DRESSING 


Mash the yolks of 3 hard boiled eggs until they are smooth; then mix with 
4 tbsp. Wesson oil, 3 tbsp. cream, 1 tbsp. vinegar, | tsp. salt, pinch of pepper 
and paprika, 2 tbsp. chopped chives and 2 tbsp. finely chopped hard boiled egg 
whites. If you haven’‘t any chives, finely chopped green onions will do as well. 


ROQUEFORT DRESSING 


Let 14 pound Roquefort (blue) cheese stand at room temperature. Mash 
with fork and cream until smooth. Make 114 cups French dressing, basic 
recipe, combine with cheese and stir until blended. Add 1% tsp. sugar, if 
desired. 


SALAD DRESSING (without oil) 


Beat 2 eggs, add 14, cup lemon juice, 34, tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. sugar and 4 tbsp. 
butter and cook over hot water, stirring constantly, until creamy and smocth. 
Remove from heat. Chill. Fold in 4 cup cream, beaten until stiff. 


SOUR CREAM DRESSING 


3 tbsp. sugar 14 tsp. celery salt 

14 tsp. pepper 2 eggs, slightly beaten 
14 tsp. mustard 27, cup sour cream — 

1 tsp. salt 1, cup vinegar 


Combine dry ingredients; add eggs, then sour cream and vinegar. Cook 
until thick in double boiler over low heat. May be thinned with sweet cream 
Or sour cream when served. 


SOUR CREAM DRESSING (without oil) 


Melt 2 tbsp. butter, add 2 tbsp. flour and blend well. Add 1 cup sour 
cream and stir constantly until creamy and thick. Add 3 egg yolks beaten 
and mixed with 1% tsp. salt, 2 tbsp. sugar, 14 cup lemon juice and a few grains 
paprika. Stir constantly until eggs are set. Beat well. Chill and fold in 2 
cups whipped sweet or sour cream. 


THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING 


14 cup mayonnaise 2 tbsp. chili sauce 

2 tbsp. finely chopped pimento 14 cup whipping cream 

1 tsp. chives, minced 2 hard cooked eggs, finely 
2 tbsp. tomato catsup chopped 


Combine first five ingredients. When ready to serve, whip cream; add 
Seo and eggs to first mixture. This is delicious with lettuce or other green 
salads. 


DESSERTS 


ALMOND-CREAM TARTS 


First make small tart shells, using your rather rich pastry rule. For the 
filling make an almond cream like this: Put 114 cups milk and 14 cup cream 
in top of double boiler. Mix 14 cup sugar, 6 tablespoons flour and a little 
salt, and add to the milk and cream. Stir constantly and cook until perfectly 
smooth and thick. Beat 2 eggs until light and add the hot custard—in a bowl 
now—beating well. Put it back in the double boiler and cook a few minutes, 
stirring all the time. Cool and fold in 14 cup cream, whipped stiff. Flavor 
with almond extract. Fill the tarts. 


ANGEL PARFAIT 


2 egg whites 1 tbsp. maraschino cherry juice 

14 cup sugar 6 almond macaroons crushed 

14 cup water 1 cup white cherries, seeded and 
2 tsps. plain gelatin soaked in halved 

2 tbsp. cold water 14 cup shredded blanched almonds 
114 cups heavy cream 4 tsp. salt 


2 tsp. chopped maraschino cherries 1% tsp. vanilla 


Place the sugar and water in saucepan and cook to 238° F., or until soft 
ball forms when small bit is dropped in cold water from a spoon. Pour syrup 
over stiffly beaten egg whites, beating constantly. Dissolve soaked gelatin 
over hot water; add gelatin with vanilla and salt to the egg whites and syrup 
and beat thoroughly. Add cherries, juice and nuts. Chill in refrigerator 
tray until the mixture begins to become firm. Remove from the refrigerator 
and fold in whipped cream. Freeze and serve in parfait glasses with a little 
whipped cream on top. 


ANGEL CAKE WITH SUPERB SAUCE 


Make an angel cake from Angel cake recipe or buy a freshly made one 
from the bakery. Split cake crosswise as layer cake and fill with superb 
sauce as follows— | 


14 |b. butter Juice of 2 lemons 
144 cups sugar 34, teaspoon vanilla 
4 egg yolks 1 cup stiffly beaten cream 


Cream butter with sugar; add egg yolks one at the time, beating briskly, 
after adding each egg. Add juice of lemons, still beat rapidly. Fold in stiffly 
beaten egg whites and vanilla, finally add the stiffly beaten cream. Fill cake 
with this sauce and cover top with whipped cream flavored with brandy or 


rum. 
217 


218 DESSERTS 


BAKED APPLE ELEGANTE 


Remove the peelings and cores from apples. Prepare as many as there are 
guests. Put in baking pan with enough water to make 14 inch deep. Add | 
cup maple syrup or white cane syrup. Bake at 400° F. for 20 minutes. Turn 
apples carefully, fill with a small lump of butter and mincemeat. Cook an- 
other 20 minutes or until apples are tender. Serve with whipped cream 
flavored with rum or brandy. 


BABA AU RHUM 


1 cake yeast 14 cup butter or margarine 
14 cup milk, scalded 14 tsp. salt 

2 cups all-purpose flour, sifted 1 tbsp. lemon rind, grated 
14 cup sugar 3 eggs 


Dissolve yeast in milk which has been cooled to lukewarm; add 14 cup of 
the flour and 1 tbsp. of the sugar; beat until! smooth, cover and let rise in 
warm place until doubled in bulk, about | hour. Cream butter or margarine, 
add remaining sugar gradually; cream until light and fluffy. Add salt, 
lemon rind and well-beaten eggs and beat until smooth; stir in the remaining 
flour; add the yeast mixture; beat 15 min. by hand or 5 min. by electric mixer. 
Pour in greased casserole dish or mold of 114 to 2 quart capacity. Cover and 
let rise until doubled in bulk, about 1 hour. Bake in moderate oven at 350° 
F., 40 to 50 minutes. Remove from oven; prick top with tines of sharp fork. 
Turn out of pan and place cake (inverted) in pie plate; pour Baba Sauce over 
top and sides, then brush with Apricot Glaze. Allow cake to stand until most 
of the Baba Sauce is absorbed before serving. Makes one 9-inch cake. 


To make Baba Sauce: Boil | cup sugar and 1 cup strong clear tea 5 min- 
utes. Cool. Add 2 tsp. rum extract. 


To make Apricot Glaze: Soak 14 |b. apricots overnight in just enough water 
to cover. Press through sieve, measure equal parts pulp and sugar. Boil to- 
gether 5 min., stirring constantly. 


APPLE PAN DOWDY 


, cup self-rising flour 2 tbsp. butter 

1 cup brown sugar, packed 5 cups pared and sliced apples 
16 tsp. salt 4 tsp. cinnamon 

1 tsp. vinegar 4 tsp. nutmeg 

1 cup water 114 cups self-rising flour 

1 tsp. vanilla 34, cup coffee cream 


Heat oven to 400° F. Grease a 8” square pan. Make sauce of 14 cup 
self-rising flour, sugar, salt, vinegar, water. Cook over low heat, Stirring 
until thick and clear. Take from heat; add vanilla, butter. Cool. Place 


DESSERTS 219 


apples in pan; sprinkle with cinnamon, nutmeg. Mix 114 cups self-rising 
flour, cream; drop over apples; sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon. Pour sauce 
over all. Bake about 35 minutes. Serve plain or with top milk or cream. 


APPLESAUCE TARTS 


Fill baked tart shells with sweetened applesauce to which red cinnamon 
candies have been added for color and spicing. Slightly softly cream cheese 
with a little milk. Whip it up light and fluffy with a spoon, and top each tart 
with the cream cheese. 


BANANA TORTE 
1 cup graham cracker crumbs 14 cup lemon juice 
3 tabelspoons melted butter 2 ripe bananas, diced 
1 15-ounce can sweetened con- 1 tablespoon sugar 
densed milk 1 cup heavy cream 


Combine cracker crumbs and butter. Reserve 2 tbsp. of the crumb mix- 
ture. Press remaining crumbs evenly over bottom of a lightly buttered 8 inch 
square pan. Add 14% cup lemon juice to sweetened condensed milk and blend 
well. Mix together lightly bananas, remaining lemon juice and sugar and 
fold into milk mixture. Whip cream and fold in. Pour into pan and spread 
evenly. Sprinkle reserved crumbs on top. Chill until firm. Cut into squares 
and serve. 


BANBURY TARTS 
1 cup seedless raisins 1 egg, slightly beaten 
1 cup sugar Juice and rind of 1 lemon 
14 cup chopped nuts 1 tbsp. rolled vanilla wafers 


Mix all together and put aside while preparing pastry. 


Pastry: 
3 cups all-purpose flour 1 tsp. salt 
1 cup shortening 4 tbsp. ice water 


Mix salt in flour, cut in shortening with 2 knives or pastry blender until 
the size of peas. Add water a little at the time, using only what is needed 
to hold pastry together. Roll out on floured board 14.” thick. Cut into 31 
inch rounds. Moisten around edges with milk. Place a tbsp. of the filling on 
one side of the round, fold over and press the edges together. Prick the top 
with a fork and press the edges with the fork. Bake on greased cookie sheet 
15 to 20 minutes. 


220 DESSERTS 


BELMONT CHEESE PIE 


2 egg yolks 1 Ib. cottage cheese (quite dry) 
1 teaspoon salt 2 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 cup sugar 1 tsp. grated lemon rind 

14 cup milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

2 tbsp. granulated gelatin 2 egg whites, beaten 

14 cup cold water 1 cup whipped cream 


Beat yolks in upper part of double boiler, add salt, sugar and milk. Cook 
in lower part of boiler, one-third filled with hot water, until thick and creamy. 
Add gelatin soaked 5 min. in cold water. Stir until gelatin has dissolved. 
Cool, add cheese pressed through coarse sieve, juice and rind. Lightly fold 
in rest of ingredients. Pour into crumb crust. 


Crumb Crust: 


1 cup rolled unsweetened zwieback 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
3 tablespoons sugar 3 tablespoons butter, melted 


Mix ingredients, reserve 3 tbsps. and sprinkle rest in a pan. Add cheese 
mixture, sprinkle with reserved crumbs and chill until firm. 


BOILED CUSTARD 


3 cups sweet milk 1 cup sugar 
3 egg yolks 


Put milk on in double boiler, let it come to scalding temperature; pour over 
well beaten egg yolks, which have been creamed with the sugar. Pour back 
in double boiler and stir constantly until it thickens. Add 1 tablespoon corn- 
starch dissolved in a little cold water and cook 5 min. Beat egg whites until 
stiff and pour over the hot mixture. Add vanilla, chill and serve as cup cus- 
tard or put in refrigerator and freeze. 


CAFE au LAIT 


In medium size bowl, combine: 


3 tbsp. instant coffee 14 cup cold water 
2 eny. unflayored gelatin 


Stirring until all is dissolved, add: 


184, cups boiling water 14 tsp. vanilla extract 
1 cup granulated sugar 


Refrigerate until slightly thickened. Then beat in 1 cup heavy cream, 
whipped. Turn into 5 cup mold. Refrigerate several hours, or until firm. To 
serve, unmold coffee gelatin on serving plate. Sprinkle top with 14 cup chop- 


ped pecans and serve with a sauce of 1 pt. softened vanilla ice cream. Makes 
6 servings. 


DESSERTS 2 


CHOCOLATE ROLL 


6 tbsp. sifted flour 4 eggs 
1% tsp. salt 1 tsp. vanilla 
34, cup sugar 2 squares chocolate, melted 


Beat egg whites until stiff; sift sugar into egg whites and add beaten egg 
yolks and vanilla. Fold in the flour sifted with the salt; add the melted choc- 
olate and beat well. Pour in a well greased papered baking pan and bake at 
400° F. for 15 minutes. Remove from pan onto a damp towel covered with 
powdered sugar. Spread with seven minute icing and roll. 


CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW ROLL 


Use same recipe as above except spread the roll with marshmallow mixture. 
Melt 10 marshmallows in double boiler with 14 cup milk. Add 14 pt. whipped 
cream and blend well. Spread. 


CHARLOTTE RUSSE 


2 eny. unflavored gelatin 1, cup brandy 

34, cup granulated sugar 9 ladyfingers, split 

4, tsp. salt 2 cups heavy cream 

4 eggs, separated Whipped cream 

2 cups milk, scalded 9 maraschino cherries 


Split the ladyfingers and line a spring mold with the fingers. Soften gela- 
tin in a little cold water. In the top of double boiler, scald the milk and stir 
in the sugar, salt and gelatin. Stir, but do not allow to boil, until the sugar 
and gelatin are dissolved. Beat the egg whites until they are stiff and the 
egg yolks until they are lemon colored. Add egg yolks to milk mixture in 
double boiler and cook until thickened. Remove from stove and cool. Add 
the vanilla and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites, and the cream which has 
been whipped. Turn into the mold and set in refrigerator to congeal. This 
will take 5 or 6 hrs. When ready to serve, turn out and garnish with addi- 
tional whipped cream and cherries. 


COFFEE TORTONI 


Several days ahead: In small bowl, place 2 cups miniature marshmallows 
and 1 tablespoon instant coffee; add 14 cup boiling water; stir until marsh- 
mallows are dissolved. Refrigerate, stirring occasionally, until thick and 
syrupy. 

Meanwhile, coarsely chop 14, cup pecans; also chop 14, cup semi-sweet choc- 
olate pieces. 

Into syrupy marshmallow mixture, fold 14 cup heavy cream, whipped; 
pecans; and chocolate. Turn into eight 2 oz. paper cups. Freeze. 


222 DESSERTS 


CHERRIES JUBILEE 
1 qt. strawberries 1 No. 214 can pitted Bing cherries 
3 tbsp. granulated sugar 34, cup currant jelly 
114 qts. vanilla ice cream 14 cup brandy 


About 2 hrs. before serving: wash, then hull strawberries; sprinkle with 
sugar; refrigerate. If convenient, make, wrap, and freeze ice-cream balls. 

At serving time: quickly drain strawberries and cherries; combine fruits. 
In chafing dish, over direct heat, melt currant jelly, strring gently, as gently 
stirring helps jelly melt uniformely. Add fruits. Heat slowly, stirring con- 
stantly, till simmering. Pour brandy into center of fruits; don’t stir. Let 
brandy heat, when it’s warmed, carefully light with match. Immediately 
spoon flaming fruits over ice cream. 


DATE BRIDGE DESSERT (Ice Box) 


1 Ib. graham crackers 2 cups chopped pecans 
1 pkg. dates, chopped 1, pt. coffee cream 
1 Ib. marshmallows, chopped 


Roll crackers with rolling pin; moisten with cream if not enough to make 
smooth batter, after adding marshmallows and nuts, add enough milk to 
make a roll. Put in pan with some crumbs on bottom of pan. Refrigerate 
over night. Cut in slices and serve with whipped cream. 


EGG CUSTARD PIE 


1 unbaked pie shell 1 cup milk 
14 cup sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 
1 tbsp. flour Dash nutmeg 
4 eggs 


Freeze pie shell. Blend sugar and flour. Add eggs, milk and vanilla and 
blend well. Pour into pie shell and bake in moderate oven. 


FOUNDATION RECIPE FOR FRIGIDAIRE ICE CREAM 


3 cups sweet milk 14 cup sugar 
35 marshmallows 1 qt. cream, whipped 


Put sweet milk, sugar and marshmallows in double boiler. Let marshmal- 
lows melt but do not stir more than necessary. When melted remove from 
fire and cool. Add whipped cream and put in trays. Turn cold control high 
and stir two or three times after it begins to freeze. 


For Chocolate Cream: Add 3/,, cake of chocolate to milk and an extra i, 
cup sugar. 


DESSERTS 223 


For Caramel Cream: Caramelize the 144 cup sugar by putting in iron fry- 
ing pan over slow fire, stirring constantly until melted. Add to milk and let 
melt (it will form a lump when first added). Season with 1 tsp of Mapleine. 


For Any Fruit Cream: Beat well the yellows of six eggs and add the 14 cup 
sugar to this. Add some of milk to egg mixture and then to all of milk in 
double boiler. After custard has begun to freeze well, add fruit chopped fine 
and stir in. Sweeten fruit to taste before adding to custard. Be careful not 
too sweet as it will not freeze. 


For Frozen Plum Pudding: Make custard cream as given for fruit cream. 
Add | cup white raisins, 44 |b. crystallized pineapple and cherries and 1 cup 
chopped pecans. 

For Lemon or Orange Cream: Make custard cream. Season with either 
lemon or orange juice to taste and add the rind of two of the lemons or oranges 
sliced very thin. 


Heavenly Hash 


16 marshmallows 10 almond macaroons, crushed 
1 cup white cherries, seeded 1 cup almonds, crushed 
1 cup Tokay grapes, peeled and 1 teaspoon vanilla 

seeded 1 cup white wine 


1 cup orange segments, cut in bits 1 pt. whipping cream 


Soak marshmaliows over night in wine. Next morning stir in cherries, 
grapes, oranges, and macaroons. Add vanilla, stir in crushed almonds and 
fold in stiffly beaten cream flavored with rum. (An excellent party dessert!) 


ICE CREAM PARFAIT PIE 


First make your pie shell—set aside to cool. 

Pour | pkg. strawberry jello in a bowl, add 114, cups hot water; spoon in | 
pint of vanilla ice cream and stir until melted. Place in refrigerator until it 
thickens, 15 to 25 minutes. Fold in 1 cup of sliced strawberries. Turn fill- 
ing into flaky ready cooked pie shell. Put in refrigerator for about 30 min- 
utes. May be topped with whipped cream and a few plump berries. 


LIME ICE 
1 pkg. lime jello 114 cups sugar 
Juice of 2 lemons 1 cup hot water 


Dissolve jello in hot water; add sugar and lemon juice. When cold stir in 
1 qt. of milk. Put in refrigerator, when it begins to freeze, put in bowl and 
beat vigorously with rotary beater. Return to refrigerator and let freeze. 


224 DESSERTS 


LAFAYETTE GINGERBREAD 


Cut up in a pan 14 cup of the very best fresh butter with 14 cup brown 
sugar. Beat to a cream with a paddle. Add one cup West India molasses 
and 14 cup warm milk; 2 tablespoons powdered ginger and 1 heaped teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon, mace and nutmeg powdered and mixed; 1 wine glass of 
brandy. 

Beat 3 eggs till very light and thick; 3 cups of flour, which has been sifted 
and stir alternately with the beaten eggs into the batter. Last, mix in the 
juice and grated rind of 1 large orange. Dissolve | level teaspoon soda in a 
little warm water and stir in. Beat until very light. A cup full of seeded 
raisins is an addition, if desired. Bake in a loaf pan in a moderate oven. 


MAPLE RUSSE 


1 eny. gelatin 1 cup hot milk 

14 cup cold water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup maple syrup Pinch of salt 

1 cup brown sugar, packed firm 14 pt. whipped cream 


Dissolve gelatin in cold water. Combine next five ingredients and add to 
gelatin. Crush | small box vanilla wafers and cover bottom of pie pan. Pour 
in gelatin mixture and set in refrigerator to harden. Serve with whipped 
cream. May be decorated, if desired, with cherries. 


MERINGUE GLACEE—BRANDIED STRAWBERRIES 


7 egg whites 1% tsp. almond extract 

4, tsp. salt 214 qt. pistachio or strawberry 
214 cups granulated sugar ice cream 

14 tsp. cream of tartar Brandied Strawberries, below 


Early in day or day before: 


|. In large electric-mixer bowl, let egg whites stand at room temperature 1 
hr. 


2. Meanwhile, start heating oven to 275°. On large, greased cookie sheet, 
place inverted 2 to 214 qt. ovenproof bowl. Overlap two 18” x 12” sheets 
of foil, enough to cover top and side of pan; with hands, crush foil to fit 
contour of pan, flattening overhand to cookie sheet. 


3. With electric mixer at high speed, beat egg whites with salt until foamy. 
Gradually add sugar, 1 tbsp. at a time, beating well after each addition 
(beating should take about 30 min.; whites should stand in stiff peaks) 
Add cream of tartar and almond; beat 10 min. more. 


4. Into large pastry bag, insert large rosette tube (No. 7 or 8); fill with 
meringue mixture. 


DESSERTS 225 


5. On foil, pipe meringue in rows around side of pan, beginning at bottom 
and working up; cover side completely (with bowl, cover side 34, way up. 
Drop rosettes close together all around top and bottom edges. Scatter a 
few more around side. Bake 25 minutes. 


6. Cool on cookie sheet. Then, with hands under foil, gently lift shell from 
tube pan to serving plate. 


7. With sharp knife, carefully free foil from inside of shell, pushing it down 
to bottom. With scissors, trim foil from base of shell so none shows. 
(Don’t worry if shell cracks). Store at room temperature until ready to 
use. 

8. Using ice cream scoop or large spoon, make ice cream balls; store in 
freezer until ready to use. 


At serving time: 


Fill meringue with ice cream. With sharp knife, slice meringue into serv- 
ing pieces, or tear with fork and spoon. Serve with ice cream and Bran- 
died Strawberries. Serves 10. 


BRANDIED STRAWBERRIES 


3 pkg. frozen sliced strawberries 14 cup currant jelly 
thawed Red food color 
1 tablespoon cornstarch 4 cup brandy 


1. Drain strawberries slightly; save 14 cup juice. In bowl, combine juice and 
cornstarch, stirring to dissolve lumps. 


2. Melt currant jelly over low heat; add cornstarch mixture; cook, stirring, 
over low heat until thickened and clear. Add enough red food color to 
make a bright red. 


3. Add brandy and strawberries. Makes 2 cups. 


ORANGE SOUFFLE SUPREME 
(A Florida Special) 


1 qt. milk 2 cups orange segments (cut in 
6 eggs | bite size) 
VQ cup sugar Speck of salt 


Make a custard of well beaten egg yolks and 4 egg whites beaten stiff but 
not dry. Cook in a double boiler until custard covers spoon when stirring it. 
Remove from heat; cool. Add orange sections, put in casserole. Beat 2 egg 
whites with 2 tbsp. sugar and 2 tbsp. orange juice. Cover casserole with this 
mixture and bake in 300° F. oven until lightly browned. Cool; serve with 
whipped cream flavored with Rum or Brandy. (These may be omitted if not 
desired.) 


226 DESSERTS 


ORANGE FLUFF 


Scald 3 cups milk in top of a double boiler. While the milk is heating, mix 
together 14, cup sugar and 3 tablespoons cornstarch. Grate the rind of | navel 
orange and add. Mix in 3 egg yolks (refrigerate the 3 whites). Stir in 144 
cup scalded milk and add sugar mixture to the hot milk. Cook, stirring con- 
stantly, over hot water until smooth and thickened. Set the pan of custard 
in a pan of cold water to cool. Add 1 teaspoon butter, 14 teaspoon salt and 
14 teaspoon vanilla. While the custard is cooling, peel and section 2 seedless 
oranges. Put in refrigerator to chill. When the custard has cooled, add 2 
tablespoons sugar to the egg whites and whip until stiff, but not dry. Gently 
fold the beaten egg whites into the custard. Spoon custard into serving bowl. 
Chill 1 hour. Garnish with orange sections and mint. Makes 8 servings. 


ORANGE SHERBET 
34, cup sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
34, cup water 14 cup coffee cream 
Grated rind of 1 orange 2 egg whites 


114 cups orange juice 


Cook sugar and water ten min. Add grated rind to syrup, continue cooking. 
Strain. Add syrup to fruit juices, cool. Pour into tray and freeze firm. 
Remove to ice cold mixing bowl. Beat with rotary egg beater until light. Add 
coffee cream and stiffly beaten egg whites, to which salt has been added. 
Freeze. 


ORANGE SOUFFLE 
1 qt. milk 2 cups orange segments, cut in 
4 eggs small bits 
1 tsp. vanilla 1 cup whipping cream 


12 marshmallows 


Heat milk to boiling point, pour in egg yolks, which have been beaten. Stir 
in sugar, put in double boiler and cook until thick. Stir in marshmallows, let 
set over hot water about 10 minutes. Beat egg whites stiff, remove the cus- 
tard mixture from heat and beat in egg whites. Add vanilla. When cool 
stir in orange segments. Cool, serve. 


DESSERTS 227 





PRUNE WHIP 
1 cup dried prunes 14 cup coarsely chopped walnuts 
4 cup sugar 5 egg whites 


1 tsp. vanilla extract 


Start oven at 375°. Butter generously a 2 qt. baking dish and sprinkle 
sides and bottom of dish with a light coating of sugar. Cover prunes with 
water and cook until tender. Drain, remove pits and chop prunes fine. Mix 
with sugar, vanilla extract and chopped nuts. Beat egg whites until they 
hold a shape, then mix gently into prune combination. Pour into prepared 
baking dish and bake 20 to 25 min. Serve with whipped cream. Makes 4 to 
6 servings. 


SOUTHERN AMBROSIA 


6 to 8 oranges, sectioned 114 cups grated fresh coconut; or 
1 cup seeded grapes 1 can flaked coconut 
Deluxe Custard Sauce, below 


1. Refrigerate, separately, oranges, grapes, coconut, and custard sauce un- 
til well chilled. 


2. To serve, in serving bowl or individual dishes, make a laryer of custard 
sauce, then of well-drained orange sections and grapes, then of coconut; 
repeat. Makes 6 to 8 servings. 


Deluxe Custard Sauce: 


1 cup milk 4 cup granulated sugar 
1 cup heavy cream 1 cup sherry or rum 
4 egg yolks 1 tablespoon salt 


1. In double boiler top, heat milk with cream until tiny bubbles appear 
around edge. 


2. In medium bowl combine well beaten egg yolks, sugar, flour and salt. 
Pour into heated milk and cream mixture and cook until it thickens. Re- 
move from heat and add sherry or rum. 


228 DESSERTS 


STRAWBERRY ICE-CREAM MERINGUE 


6 egg whites (3/4, cup) 114 cups sugar 

14 teaspoon salt 1 pint strawberry ice cream 

1 teaspoon vinegar 1 pint fresh strawberries, hulled 
14 teaspoon vanilla and washed 


Separate eggs while cold, drop whites into large mixing bowl and bring to 
room temperature before beating. Cover cooky sheet with unglazed paper; 
with a pencil draw a circle on paper about 7 inches across; grease circle with 
unsalted fat and dust with flour. Add salt, vinegar and vanilla to egg whites 
and beat with rotary beater to a stiff foam, then start adding sugar | tbsp. at 
a time, beating until thoroughly blended after each addition. Scrape side 
of bowl frequently. It is essential to add sugar slowly; all the sugar should 
be dissolved at the end of 15 min. of beating. With a spatula spread a layer 
of meringue | inch thick over greased circle on paper. Then add spoonfuls 
to build up a rim about 4 inches across. With spatula gently smooth outside 
surface into soft swirls and peaks. Bake in moderate oven 275° F. for 50 
minutes. When done meringue will be a tawny light brown color and will 
measure about 9 inches across. Cool on pan away from drafts. When com- 
pletely cool loosen meringue from paper with spatula and place on a flat 
serving tray. Fill center with strawberry ice cream; surround with straw- 
berries. Makes 6 to 8 servings. 


STRAWBERRY TORTE 


1 cup sifted all-purpose flour 3/4, cup butter or margarine 
1, cup sugar 1 pint strawberries 
24 cup grated almonds 1 cup red currant jelly 


14 teaspoon grated lemon rind 


Sift flour and sugar together into a bowl, then stir in grated almonds and 
lemon rind. Cut butter or margarine in with a pastry blender or two knives 
until mealy, and work mixture with hands until it holds together. Put dough 
into bottom and around sides of a 9 inch pie pan. Chill in refrigerator for 
an hour or so. At end of chilling period, bake in preheated oven 425° F. for 
12 to 15 minutes. Cool. 


Wash and hull strawberries. Cut large ones in half, leave small ones whole 
and arrange in pastry shell. Melt red currant jelly over a low heat and spoon 


over berries. Chill torte in refrigerator until jelly is firm. Cut torte in wedges 
to serve. Makes 6 to 8 servings. 


DESSERTS 229 


SYLLABUB 
1 qt. whipping cream 14 cup rum 
14 cup brandy Dash of nutmeg 


14 cup sugar 


Dissolve sugar in rum and brandy; pour some cream gradually into this, 
about 14 cup, then whip remainder of the cream quite thick. Pour rum- 
brandy mixture into the cream and thoroughly mix. Serve in low compotes 
with dash of nutmeg. 


TUTTI-FRUTTI COMPOTE 


1 pkg. lemon jello 1 small can crushed pineapple 
1 pkg. orange jelly 1 tbsp. chopped candied ginger 
1 can fruit cocktail 1 cup double cream, whipped 


Dissolve lemon and orange jello in two cups hot water; add ginger, then 
fruit cocktail and pineapple. When cool add cream and 1 can tutti fruits. 


VINEGAR TARTS 


1 cup milk 4 tablespoons vinegar 
2 cups sugar 5 eggs 
Combine milk, sugar and vinegar and let boil two or three minutes. Beat 


eggs until real light and pour on hot mixture. Put in pastry shells and bake 
in moderate oven. 


WINE JELLY 
3 envelopes gelatin . 114 pts. water 
14 cup water 114 pts. Sherry wine 
14 Ibs. sugar Juice of 2 lemons 
14 stick cinnamon Rind of 1 lemon (grated) 


Soak gelatin in 14 cup cold water together with lemon juice and rind of 
lemon for 1 hour. Boil cinnamon in 114 pints water for 10 minutes; pour 
while hot on sugar, gelatin and lemon mixtures. When sugar is melted; add 
wine. Strain through double thickness of cheese cloth and place in the re- 


frigerator to set. 


ICE CREAMS, ICES, MOUSSES AND SHERBETS 


— 


BURNT ALMOND ICE CREAM 


1 cup heavy cream 1 cup toasted almonds 
2 cups milk 14 cup sugar 
1 cup sugar 14 tsp. almond extract 


4 egg yolks, beaten 


First prepare the almonds; blanch and toast them, grind coarsely. Scald 
the milk and pour over the beaten egg yolks and 1 cup of sugar; cook in dou- 
ble boiler till the mixture will coat the spoon. Set aside to cool. Melt the 
remaining 14 cup of sugar in a frying pan and cook slowly until it caramel- 
izes. Melt in the custard; add the extract and ground almonds and whip- 
ping cream. This may be frozen in freezer or refrigerator trays. 


CARAMEL ICE CREAM 


2 cups sugar 1 cup sugar, caramelized 
1, cup flour 3 tsp. vanilla 

4 cups milk, scalded 1 qt. heavy cream 

14 tsp. salt 2 gts. milk 


2 eggs, well beaten 


Combine sugar, salt and flour; add 4 cups of milk and cook 20 minutes in 
double boiler stirring constantly. Add the eggs and cook 3 minutes longer. 
Add caramelized sugar; stir vigorously until sugar is melted in custard. Cool. 
Add vanilla, cream and 2 quarts of milk. Freeze in ice cream freezer. 


CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 


18 large marshmallows 1144 cups heavy cream, whipped 
2 cups milk 16 tsp. vanilla 
2 squares chocolate, melted 


Combine milk with marshmallows; melt over low heat. Add remaining in- 
gredients and mix well. Pour in two refrigerator trays; freeze, stirring two or 
three times. 


COFFEE ICE CREAM 


Add 14% cups of strong coffee to the Vanilla Ice Cream recipe for a de- 
licious coffee ice cream. 


230 


ICE CREAMS, ICES, MOUSSES AND SHERBETS 231 


EGGNOG ICE CREAM 


2 cups milk 2 cups whipping cream 
34, sup sugar 1 tsp. nutmeg 

4 tsp. salt 14 cup brandy 

6 egg yolks 


Combine milk, sugar, salt and beaten egg yolks. Cook over low heat until 
custard is formed. Cool. Add vanilla and brandy and whipped cream. Pour 
in refrigerator tray. Freeze until almost firm. Pour into chilled bowl and 
beat well, return to tray and freeze until firm. 


FROZEN CUSTARD 
(Sometimes called French Ice Cream) 


1 qt. milk 1 cup heavy cream 
6 egg yolks 6 egg whites, beaten stiff but 
1 tsp. vanilla not dry 


1 cup sugar 

Scald the milk and pour over the well beaten egg yolks with sugar beaten 
in them. Cook in a double boiler until mixture forms a coating on a spoon, 
strain and pour over the egg whites. Cool, then add vanilla and whipped 
cream. Freeze in an ice cream freezer or in refrigerator trays, stirring two 
or three times. 


GINGER ICE CREAM 


The vanilla ice cream recipe may be used as a basic recipe for different 
ice creams. For Ginger Ice Cream, add 14 cup of finely chopped crystallized 
ginger to the basic recipe, leaving out the vanilla. 


PEACH ICE CREAM 
1 pt. milk 114 cups sugar 
2 cups fresh peaches, mashed fine 4, tsp. almond extract 
1 pt. double cream, whipped 
Scald the milk; add the sugar and allow mixture to cool. Put in the flavor- 


ing, add the peaches and whipped cream. Freeze either in ice cream freezer 
or refrigerator trays. If in refrigerator trays, stir well once or twice while 


freezing. 


PEPPERMINT ICE CREAM 
1 Ib. peppermint stick candy 1 pt. whipping cream 
1 pt. milk 


Soak candy in milk over night. Whip cream, combine with candy and 
milk. Put in refrigerator trays and freeze. 


252 ICE CREAMS, ICES, MOUSSES AND SHERBETS 


PISTACHIO ICE CREAM 


14 cup finely chopped pistachio Few drops green coloring 
nuts 4, tsp. salt 

14 cup finely chopped almonds 1 cup sugar 

14 tbsp. almond extract 4 cups cream, whipped 


Mix all ingredients and freeze. 


STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 


1 qt. strawberries 14 cup cold water 
1 cup sugar 14 cup boiling water 
14 box plain gelatin 1 pt. whipping cream 


Mash the berries with the sugar; let stand until sugar is dissolved. Strain 
through sieve fine enough to get out the seed. Soak the gelatin in cold water, 
then dissolve in the boiling water; strain, cool. Beat in the berry juice until 
thick. Beat in the whipped cream. Chill until very cold. Serve with wine 
sauce. 


TUTTI-FRUTTI ICE CREAM 


1 pt. milk 14 cup maraschino cherries 

34, cup sugar chopped 

1 qt. double cream 14 cup orange segments, chopped 
14 cup grated pineapple 12 marshmallows 


14 cup sherry wine 


Melt marshmallows in milk; add sugar, cool. Add all fruits; mix thor- 
oughly. Add the sherry and whipped cream and freeze. 


VANILLA ICE CREAM 


1 pt. milk 2 tsp. vanilla 
3 eggs 2 cups thin cream 
1 cup sugar 4 tsp. salt 


Scald the milk, pour over well beaten eggs; cook in double boiler until as 
thick as custard. Remove from fire and add sugar; when cold add the vanilla, 
salt and cream. Freeze either in refrigerator trays or freezer. 


ICE CREAMS, ICES, MOUSSES AND SHERBETS 233 


ICES 
LEMON ICE 
1 cup sugar Grated rind of 1 lemon 
2 cups water 4 egg whites 


3 lemons 


Put the sugar and water in a saucepan and allow to boil 8 minutes. Re- 
move pan from the fire and beat contents until cold. Add the stiffly beaten 
egg whites, the strained juice of lemons and grated rind. Freeze. 


ORANGE ICE 
1 pt. water Grated rind and juice of 2 oranges 
114 cups sugar Juice of 1 lemon 
2 tsp. gelatin 3 egg whites 


Boil the water and sugar together for 10 minutes; add the gelatin which has 
been soaked in 2 tbsp. of cold water and allow mixture to become quite cold. 
Then add the beaten whites of eggs, the rind and juice of oranges and lemon. 
Freeze in refrigerator trays or hand freezer. 


WATERMELON ICE 


14 large melon 1 cup sugar 
Juice of 4 oranges 1 egg white 
Juice of 3 lemons 


Scoop meat from melon; extract juice. Add lemon and orange juice and 
sugar. Stir thoroughly and freeze slightly. When slightly frozen add stiffly 
beaten egg white and finish freezing. Serve in melon rind neatly trimmed at 
top edge. Scoop out holes in frozen mixture with small ice cream scoop. 
Fill with cherries, grapes, or strawberries. This makes a tempting summer 
dessert. 


MOUSSES 
APRICOT MARSHMALLOW MOUSSE 
214 cups apricots, sieved 3 tbsp. cold water 
6 tbsp. lemon juice 114 cups whipping cream 
14 cup sugar 14 cup confectioner’s sugar 
3 tsp. gelatin 114 tsp. vanilla 


Add lemon juice and sugar to apricots; stir until dissolved. Soak gelatin 
in 114 tbsp. water. Dissolve over hot water, add the apricots. Pour into two 
refrigerator trays, place in refrigerator. Whip cream until it holds shape, 
add sugar and vanilla. Soak remaining gelatin in remaining water, dissolve 
over hot water. Cool, add to cream; spread over apricot mixture in refrigera- 
tor trays and freeze. 


rive ICE CREAMS, ICES, MOUSSES AND SHERBETS 


CARAMEL MOUSSE 


1 qt. milk 2 eggs 
1 tbsp. cornstarch 1 tsp. vanilla 
1 cup suger 1 pt. heavy cream 


Put the sugar in a heavy skillet and brown it. Make a custard with the 
milk, eggs and cornstarch and add the caramel sugar. Stir until melted. 
Freeze. Line a mold with this caramel mixture; fill the center with whipped 
cream flavored with brandy or sherry. Cover with waxed paper before put- 
ting lid on mold. Put in refrigerator on very cold for 5 or 6 hours. 


LEMON MOUSSE 


2 egg yolks 4 tbsp. sugar 
6 tbsp. sugar 14 pt. whipping cream, beaten stiff 
1 tbsp. grated lemon rind 2 tbsp. lemon juice 


Cream egg yolks and sugar and grated lemon rind. Add stiffly beaten egg 
whites to which have been added 4 tbsp. sugar. Then add cream beaten and 
2 tbsp. lemon juice. Butter refrigerator trays, sprinkle with graham cracker 
crumbs, then pour in other mixture, sprinkle top with finely crumbled graham 
cracker crumbs and freeze. 


MACAROON MOUSSE 


3 egg whites 2 tbsp. vanilla 
1 cup sugar 1 pt. whipping cream 
1 tsp. gelatin 1 cup powdered macaroons 


14 cup water 


Soak gelatin in water 5 minutes. Boil sugar in water, pour slowly over egg 
whites which have been stiffly beaten. Add gelatin and beat until cool. Fold 
in stiffly beaten cream and macaroons. Beat until smooth; add vanilla and 
freeze without stirring. 


ORANGE MOUSSE 
1 pt. whipping cream 34, Cup orange juice 
14 cup sugar 114 orange segments cut in 14 
1 tbsp. gelatin bites 
14 cup water 2 egg whites, stiffly beaten 


Whip cream; add sugar, flavor with orange and juice. Melt gelatin that 
has been soaked in 14, cup of water. When cool, add to cream, the stiffly 
beaten egg whites. Line mold with orange segments. Pour in cream. Either 


pack in ice or put in cold refrigerator for several hours. Serve with orange 
sauce or wine sauce. 


ICE CREAMS, ICES, MOUSSES AND SHERBETS 235 


STRAWBERRY MOUSSE 
1 cup sugar 14 cup water 
1 pt. strawberries 1 qt. whipping cream 


2 tbsp. gelatin 


Let the berries and sugar stand for a while. Crush the berries and run 
through a sieve to remove seed. Soak the gelatin in the water then dissolve 
over hot water and mix with the strained berries. Put in the refrigerator 
until it becomes slightly hard; fold in the whipped cream. Return to the re- 
frigerator for 3 or 4 hours and serve plain or with a few strawberries as a 
garnish. 


SHERBETS 
APRICOT SHERBET 
1 pkg. lemon jello 134, cups apricot juice 
4 cup sugar 2 cups canned apricots 
2 cups boiling water (mashed to a pulp) 


4 cup lemon juice 


Combine jello with boiling water, stirring until dissolved. Add remaining 
ingredients and stir until smooth. Cool and freeze. Makes 214 quarts. 


LIME SHERBET 


1 pkg. lime jello 1 cup sugar 
1 pt. hot water 1 qt. milk 
Juice of 3 lemons 


Melt jello in hot water; add sugar, lemon juice and stir well. Add milk. 
Freeze until almost set. Remove from trays, whip; return to trays and freeze. 


MILK SHERBET 


1 qt. milk Juice of 2 lemons 
114 cups sugar Grated rind of 1 lemon 


Add the sugar to the milk and stir until dissolved. Put in refrigerator trays 
or freezer and freeze until it begins to set. Then add the juice and rind of 


lemons and finish freezing. 


236 ICE CREAMS, ICES, MOUSSES AND SHERBETS 


ORANGE CREAM SHERBET 


2 cups cream 1 cup orange juice 
214 cups sugar 1, cup lemon juice 
1 qt. milk 


Combine cream, sugar and milk. Partially freeze; add fruit juices, con- 
tinue freezing. 


PINEAPPLE SHERBET 


1 pkg. lemon jello 234, cups boiling water 
14 cup sugar 14 cup lemon juice 
4 tsp. salt 2 cups crushed pineapple and juice 


Pour boiling water over jello, stirring until dissolved. Add remaining in- 
gredients; stir until smooth. Cool and freeze. Makes 2 quarts. 


RASPBERRY SHERBET 


1 pt. raspberries, crushed Juice of 2 lemons 


1 qt. water 1 tbsp. gelatin 
2 cups sugar 


Combine crushed raspberries with sugar. Soak gelatin in 4 tbsp. water. 
Heat remaining water to boiling point and dissolve gelatin in it. Pour over 
crushed raspberries and sugar. Strain; add lemon juice and freeze. 


PUDDINGS 


ALMOND-PEACH PUDDING 


14 pkg. regular vanilla pudding mix _1 8-oz. can cling-peach slices, 
1 cup milk drained 

1 egg, separated Bit of red currant jelly 

4 tsp. almond extract 


1. Into pudding in saucepan, gradually stir milk; cook, stirring well until 
smooth and thickened; remove from heat. 

2. Into well-beaten egg yolk, stir some hot pudding; then stir into rest of 
pudding. Cook 2 min. Cool, add extract; fold into stiffly beaten egg 
white. Refrigerate. 

3. To serve: Put peaches in nappy dishes; spoon on pudding; top each with 
bit of jelly. Makes 2 servings. 


AMBER PUDDING 


4 eggs, well beaten 1 cup orange marmalade 
1 cup bread crumbs 34, cup butter 
1 cup sugar 14 cup citron, cut in small pieces 


Mix the above ingredients well. Place in a greased pudding mold and 
steam for 114 hours. Serve with the following sauce: 


2 0z. sugar Sprinkle of nutmeg 
2 oz. butter 14 cup chopped almonds 
4 cup wine 


Put in double boiler, cook until well blended. 


APRICOT PUDDING 


1 Ib. dried apricots 1 pt. whipping cream 
14 Ib. vanilla wafers 4 eggs 

3/4, cup butter or margarine 1 tsp. vanilla 

2 cups powdered sugar Pinch salt 


14 cup sugar 

Cook apricots according to directions on box. Put through potato ricer or 
food mill. Sweeten with 14 cup sugar. Crush vanilla wafers and line a but- 
tered baking dish. Save some of the crushed wafers for top of the pudding. 
Cream butter, sugar and salt; add vanilla. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Pour over crumbs in the pan; over this pour apricot mixture. Spread with 
whipped cream and cover with remaining crumbs. Chill. 

It is best to make night before. Serves 8 or 10. 


27, 


238 PUDDINGS 





BAKED PEACH PUDDING 


2 eggs, beaten 4, tsp. salt 
2 cups milk, scalded 2 cups fresh peaches, sliced or 
2, cup sugar 2 cups canned peaches 


2 cups whole wheat bread crumbs 2 tbsp. butter 
1 tsp. almond flavoring 


Pour hot milk over bread crumbs; cool. Add sugar, beaten eggs, salt and 
almond flavoring. Mix; fold in peaches, pour in buttered baking dish, dot 
with butter and bake until peaches are tender. Cook in oven 400 degrees. 
Will serve 6. 


BLUEBERRY CAKE PUDDING 


1 cup sifted flour 1 tsp. butter, melted and cooled 
114 tsp. baking powder 14 tsp. vanilla 

4 tsp. salt 1 cup blueberries (washed and 
14 cup sugar dried) 

1 egg Topping 

Y% cup milk 


Sift together the flour, baking powder, salt and sugar. Beat egg until 
thick and pale colored; beat in milk, melted butter and vanilla. Add sifted 
dry ingredients; stir vigorously just until smooth. Fold in blueberries. Turn 
into buttered baking dish (8” x 8” x 2”). Drop blobs of the topping from the 
tip of a teaspoon over batter. Bake in moderate oven until done (about 30 
minutes). Cut into portions in pan; remove with spatula; serve warm with 
lemon or orange sauce. Makes 6 to 8 servings. 


Topping: Melt 2 tbsp. butter or margarine in a small saucepan; stir in 2 
tbsp. sugar, 14, tsp. cinnamon and 2 tbsp. finely chopped walnuts. 


BROWNIE PUDDING 


1 cup flour 1 tsp. vanilla 

2 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. fat, melted 

14 tsp. salt 1 cup nuts 

34, cup sugar 3, cup light brown sugar 
2 tbsp. cocoa 4 cup cocoa 

14 cup milk 134, cups hot water 


Sift first five ingredients. Add milk, fat and vanilla. Mix well. Add 
nuts. Pour into greased 8” pan. Mix brown sugar and cocoa. Sprinkle over 
batter. Pour hot water over entire pudding batter. Bake at 350° for 40 to 
45 min. The batter comes to the top and chocolate sauce is on the bottom 
Serve hot or cold to 6 or 8. 


PUDDINGS 239 


CARROT PUDDING 
1 cup raw grated carrots 1 tsp. ground cinnamon 
1 cup raw grated potatoes 1 tsp. ground mace 
1 cup brown sugar 14 tsp. salt | 
2 cups seedless raisins 114 cups flour 
14 cup milk 1 tsp. baking powder 
2 tbsp. butter 1 cup black walnuts, chopped 


Cream shortening with sugar; add grated carrots, potatoes, raisins and 
spices mixed with the flour and walnuts. Put in well greased molds. Steam 
slowly 3 hours or in pressure cooker 2 hours at 15 Ibs. pressure. Serve cold or 
heat in mold. Serve with whipped cream flavored with rum. A real treat 
for Christmas! 


CHERRY PUDDDING 


1 Ib. cherries (stoned) 1 cup milk 
14 cup sugar 4 tbsp. flour 
3 eggs Pinch salt 


Grease a pudding mold; put in the cherries and sugar, mixed together. 
Make a batter by beating the eggs and adding them to the flour, which has 
been sifted with the salt; mix in the milk and beat to remove all lumps. Pour 
this batter over the cherries; cover the mold and steam the pudding 114 
hours. Serve with following hard sauce: 


Hard Sauce 


14 cup butter 2 tbsp. boiling water 

1 cup powdered sugar 4 tbsp. brandy 

Beat the butter in a bowl until creamy, then add half the sugar and water. 
When light and fluffy, add the flavoring and set aside in a cool place until 
needed. If the flavoring is not wanted, any desired flavoring may be used. 


CHOCOLATE-MACAROON PUDDING 


1 pkg. (1 cup) semisweet-choco- 4 egg yolks, beaten 
late pieces 4 cup diced preserved lemon 
34, cup finely ground nuts rind (optional) 
14, cup granulated sugar 4 egg whites 
Dash salt Heavy cream 


1 teasp. vanilla extract 


Start heating oven to 375° F. Melt chocolate pieces over hot, not boiling, 
water; let cool 10 min. Add nuts, sugar, salt, vanilla, yolks, and lemon rind 
if desired. Beat egg whites until stiff; fold into chocolate mixture. Pour into 
ungreased 114-qt. casserole or 6 ungreased custard cups. Bake casserole 40 
min., custard cups 30 min. Serve hot or cold, with cream or whipped cream. 
Makes 6 servings. 


240 PUDDINGS 


CHERRY PUDDING A LA FRANCAISE 


2 cups sour red cherries 14 cup sugar 

3/4, cup sugar 1 tsp. vanilla extract 
14 cup red wine 3 eggs 

1 cup fine dry bread crumbs Pinch salt 


14 cup butter or margarine 


Wash and pit cherries. Mix with sugar and wine. Cook over low heat 15 
to 20 min. Drain off juice but save for sauce. 


Start oven at 350 degrees. Grease a 1 qt. baking dish or mold, dust sides 
and bottom lightly with additional dry bread crumbs. 


Now mix bread crumbs with butter or margarine thoroughly. Add sugar, 
vanilla and egg yolks one at a time, stirring mixture briskly after each addi- 
tion. Mix in cherries. Beat egg whites and salt in a separate bowl until 
they hold a peak. Fold them into cherry mixture, pour pudding into baking 
dish and bake | to 114, hours. Cook cherry juice slowly about 10 min. to 
concentrate flavor. At serving time, pour hot juice over hot pudding. Deli- 
cious! Serves six. 


CHRISTMAS PUDDING 


Mix together 2 cups seedless raisins, 44 cup finely chopped citron, grated 
rind of 1 orange and | lemon, | large apple, peeled, cored and chopped, 14 
cup sliced glaced cherries, 14, cup chopped pitted dates, 14 cup orange juice 
and | cup orange marmalade. Let it stand overnight. Beat 3 eggs until very 
light. Add 14 cup sugar and 1 cup molasses gradually. Then add 114 cups 
packaged fine dry bread crumbs, | cup finely chopped beef suet, 1 cup chop- 
ped walnuts and the fruits you soaked overnight. Sift 1 cup flour with 1 tsp. 
salt, 14, tsp. baking soda, 1 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 14 tsp. all- 
spice and 14 tsp. cloves. Stir into the pudding mixture and pour into greased 
and floured pudding molds. If you use 1 big mold steam 4 to 5 hours. It is 
nice to use two |-qt. molds and steam 3 hours. In this way you can have one 
pudding for the Christmas dinner and one extra during the holidays. Pud- 
dings may be steamed days ahead, cooled, and steamed to reheat on Christ- 


mas Day. This type of pudding must be hot to be at its best! Serve with 
hard or foamy sauce. 


Hard Sauce: Cream | cup butter or margarine with 1 cup superfine sugar 
until fluffy. Add 4 tsp. vanilla and grated rind of 1 orange. Mix well and 
chill. Serve with a sprinkle of shredded orange peel over the top. 


PUDDINGS 241 


CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING 


1 cup packed suet 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup sweet milk 1 tsp. cloves 

1 cup molasses 1 tsp. soda 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 tsp. salt 

1 cup currants 1 cup broken walnuts 

2 cups chopped seeded raisins 14 small bottle chopped Maras- 
4 cups flour chino cherries 


Sift flour, cloves, salt and soda together. Mix with all other ingredients. 
Fill molds about 34, full and steam for 4 hours. This recipe will make 4 pud- 
dings, each large enough to serve 4 persons. These puddings will keep for 
weeks in the refrigerator. 


DATE PUDDING 


1 cup brown sugar 2 tbsp. butter 

1 cup flour 2 cups brown sugar 
14 cup milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 tsp. baking powder 14 cup chopped nuts 
1 cup chopped dates Pinch salt 


2 cups boiling water 


Mix 1 cup brown sugar, flour, baking powder, dates and butter in order 
given and place in well greased pan. Mix water, 2 cups brown sugar, vanilla, 
pecans, and salt and pour over dough already in pan. Bake at 350° for 1 
hour. Serve with wine sauce. 


Wine Sauce 


4 cup butter 1 egg 
1 cup sugar 1 tsp. cornstarch 
1 wine glassful of wine or brandy 1 cup boiling water 


Cook butter and sugar in boiling water, beat egg well; stir cornstarch in 1] 
tbsp. cold water. Blend well with the egg. Pour boiling mixture over the 
egg mixture and let simmer for 10 minutes. Remove from heat, stir in wine 
or brandy. 


FIG PUDDING 


Chop one and a half cups figs and one cup nut meats. Flour these lightly 
but well. Dissolve two teaspoons soda in one cup milk. Stir into two cups 
of graham flour which has been mixed with one half teaspoon salt, one half 
teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon and one teaspoon clove. Mix well 
and add one cup dark molasses. Then add the figs and nuts. Steam ina 
pudding mold for three to four hours. Use a two-quart mold. 


242 PUDDINGS 


2 > 


ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 


1% Ib. suet Grated rind of 2 lemons 
14 ib. currants 1% Ib. thinly sliced citron 
14 Ib. seeded raisins 2 tbsp. grated orange peel 
1% |b. sugar 6 eggs 

1% Ib. stale bread crumbs 14 cup brandy 


l% tsp. each of ground cloves, 
nutmeg, ginger 


Chop the suet finely; clean the currants; chop raisins. Put all together in 
a bowl, add sugar and spices, flour and bread crumbs. Moisten with beaten 
eggs and brandy. Turn into well greased molds and steam 8 hours (2 hours 
in pressure cooker). These puddings will keep for a long period of time. 
Serve with hard sauce flavored with brandy. 


FROZEN EGGNOG PUDDING 


1 No. 214 can fruit cocktail 1 cup commercial eggnog 

14 cup Maraschino cherries 1 cup whipping cream 

2 3-ounce pkgs. cream cheese 2 cups miniature marshmallows 
Pinch salt Red food coloring 


1 tsp. vanilla 


Drain fruit cocktail. Drain and cut cherries in quarters. Blend softened 
cream cheese with salt, vanilla and eggnog until smooth. Fold in stiffly 
beaten cream, marshmallows and drained fruit. Tint a delicate pink with 
red food coloring. Turn into ring mold, small angel food pan or any container 
which will fit into freezer. Freeze until firm, at least 8 hours or overnight. 


Unmold on cold platter and decorate as desired. Serve at once. Makes about 
16 servings. 


GRATED SWEET POTATO PUDDING 


3 eggs 14 tsp. each of cinnamon, cloves, 
3 cups grated raw sweet potato ginger and salt 

114 cups brown sugar 
14 cup butter 

114 cups milk 


1 tsp. grated lemon peel 
1 tsp. orange rind, grated 


Beat the eggs until light; add the sugar, butter and other ingredients. 
Blend well. Put in a baking pan well greased and bake in a moderate oven 
350° for 1% hour. Stir well and cook 15 min. more. Serve with whipped 
cream flavored with sherry wine, or vanilla, if preferred. 


PUDDINGS 243 


HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING 


14 cup sugar 1 cup flour 

4 cup butter 4 cup milk 
T pt. berries Pinch soda 

2 eggs 


Cream butter and sugar; add eggs. Add flour and milk alternately. Flour 
berries and add last. Boil in greased mold 21% hours. 
Liquid Sauce: 


1 cup butter 2 cups sugar 
2 egg whites, unbeaten 5 tbsp. wine 
4, cup boiling water 


Cream butter; gradually add sugar, eggs one at a time, water, then the 
wine. Place pan in hot water, stir until smooth. 


KING GEORGES’ PUDDING 


14 cup flour 14 cup suet 
1 level cup of any flaked cereal 14 tsp. salt 
1, cup sugar 1 egg 
14 cup raspberry or blackberry ly cup milk 
jam 1 tsp. baking powder 


Put together in a bowl the flour, with baking powder and salt sifted in it, 
sugar, cereal and suet; beat the egg thoroughly and add the milk and jam. 
Mix and use to moisten other ingredients. Turn into a well greased mold 
and steam 3 hours. Serve with wine sauce. 


MINCEMEAT PUDDING 
3 cups toasted bread cubes 1 cup thinly sliced apples 
3 eggs 1 tsp. powdered cloves 
1 cup milk 1 tsp. mace 
1 stick melted butter 1 tsp. ginger 
2 cups mincemeat 1 cup rum 


1 cup seeded raisins 


Soak the bread crumbs in milk, if not real soft add a little more milk. Add 
the melted butter then the well beaten eggs. Finally the mincemeat, apples 
and raisins. Beat in the flavoring and rum. Bake in moderate oven for about 
25 min. or until pudding sets. Serve with brandy or wine saouce or whipped 
cream. 


244 PUDDINGS 


OLD FASHIONED PEACH PUDDING 


Mix and sift 2 cups flour, 14 tsp. salt and 4 tsp. baking powder. Work in 
4 or 5 tbsps. butter and add 24 cup milk. Turn out on lightly floured board 
and knead slightly. Pat or roll out about 14 inch thick. With small biscuit 
cutter prepare pieces to cover bottom of buttered muffin pans. Mix 2 cups 
sliced ripe peaches with about 14 cup sugar. Place some of the peach and 
sugar mixture on dough in each muffin pan. Place a round of dough on top 
of peaches. Bake in hot oven until brown. Serve warm with hard sauce or 
cream. 


ORANGE PUDDING 


2 cups milk 16 tsp. vanilla 

1, cup sugar 3 or 4 oranges 

14 cup cornstarch 14 cup sugar 

1 egg slightly beaten 1 cup whipped cream 
4 tsp. salt 184, cups scalded milk 


Combine sugar, cornstarch and salt; add 14, cup milk and egg. Add hot 
milk; cook until thick. Add flavoring, cool. Peel oranges, cut in chunks, 


remove seed, sprinkle with sugar; allow to stand 20 min., combine oranges 
with custard. Serve with whipped cream. 


PLUM PUDDING 


1 cup butter or margarine separately 

14 cup suet, chopped fine 1 cup milk 

1 cup sugar 14 cup grape juice or favorite 
5 cups flour liquid 

1 Ib. raisins, chopped 1 tbsp. cloves 

T Ib. currants, washed carefully 1 tbsp. mace 

1 Ib. citron, shredded fine 1 tbsp. nutmeg 


6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten 


Cream butter or margarine and sugar; add the suet; beat in the yolks which 
have been whipped smooth and light. Next put in the milk, then the flour, 
alternately with the beaten whites, then the liquid and spice, lastly the fruit 


well dredged with flour. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly. Steam in cov- 
ered individual molds for 2 hours. 


PUDDINGS 245 


STEAMED FIG PUDDING 


1 cup dried figs (about 1 Ib.) 1 egg, beaten 

2 cups sifted all-purpose flour 1 cup light molasses 

1 tbsp. ginger 14 cup melted shortening 
1 tsp. baking soda 1 cup boiling water 


4 tsp. salt 


About 214 hours before serving: 


1. With scissors snip stems from figs; simmer figs, covered, in water to 
cover for 30 min.; drain, snip fine. 


2. Meanwhile, grease well a 2-qt. pudding mold with tight fitting cover. Sift 
flour with ginger, baking soda and salt; set aside. 


3. Combine figs, egg, molasses and shortening. Add alternately the flour 
mixture and boiling water; mix well. 


4. Turn into mold; cover tightly. 


5. Place on trivet in deep kettle. Add enough boiling water to come half- 
way up. Steam covered, 2 hours, or until done. 


6. Unmold on serving plate; serve hot with custard sauce of soft ice cream. 


8 servings. 
STEAMED ORANGE PUDDING 
114 cups scalded milk 3 eggs 
1 cup bread crumbs 1, cup sugar 
2 tbsp. butter Grated rind and juice of 2 oranges 


_ Pour the scalded milk over the crumbs; add the butter and let stand 10 
min.; beat the eggs thoroughly, add the sugar, stir in the juice and rind of 
oranges. Turn in greased mold and steam 1 hour. Serve with Eggnog sauce. 


Eggnog Sauce 


4 cup butter 1 egg 
1 cup sugar 1 tsp. cornstarch 
1 wine glassful of wine or brandy 1 cup boiling water 


Cook butter and sugar in boiling water; beat egg well, stir cornstarch in |] 
tbsp. cold water, blend well with the egg. Pour boiling mixture over the egg 
mixture and let simmer for 10 min. Remove from heat, stir in the wine or 
brandy. 


CANDY 


BROWN SUGAR NUT ROLL 


2 cups granulated sugar 14 cup corn syrup 
1 cup brown sugar 1 cup chopped pecans 
1 cup evaporated milk Dash of salt 


Butter sides of heavy 3 qt. sauce pan. In it combine sugars, milk, corn 
syrup and salt. Heat over medium heat, stirring constantly till sugars dis- 
solve and mixture comes to a boil. Then cook to soft ball stage (236° F.) 
stirring frequently. Immediately remove from heat and cool to (110° F.) 
without stirring. Beat vigorously till fudge begins to lose its gloss and to 
hold its shape. Turn out on a buttered cookie sheet. Knead until firm, 
keeping hands well buttered. Shape in two 8-inch rolls 114 inches in diameter. 
Roll in chopped pecans, pressing nuts on to coat. Wrap in aluminum foil, 
saran wrap or wax paper. Chill until ready to serve, then cut in 14 inch 
pieces. Makes 32 pieces. Mixture will curdle while cooking, but will be- 
come smooth while you beat it. 


CHOCOLATE FUDGE 


214 cups sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 
4, cup butter 5 oz. marshmallows 
34, cup milk 


Bring to boiling point quickly, stirring all the time. Cook over medium 
heat five minutes. Remove from heat, add 1 pkg. semi-sweet chocolate. Stir 
until chocolate is melted completely. Add vanilla. Pour in greased pan, cool 
thoroughly. One cup of chopped nuts may be added, if desired, just before 
pouring in pan. When well set, cut in 114 inch squares. 


CHOCOLATE PECAN GEMS 


2 cups pecan halves 1 tablespoon sweet milk 
14 Ib. sweet chocolate 


Melt chocolate, add sweet milk, and stir in pecans. Pour in large buttered 
pan or platter. Let get almost cold, separate in 1 inch size bites. If put in 
tin container tightly closed, it will keep well if not used for several days. 


246 


CANDY 247 


CHOCOLATE TRUFFLES 


2 squares (2 oz.) unsweetened 34, cup confectioner’s sugar 
chocolate 3 egg yolks 
4 cup butter 


Melt chocolate over hot water. Work butter or margarine until soft. Add 
sugar gradually and continue working until mixture is smooth. Beat egg 
yolks, one at a time to melted chocolate. Chill until candy is solid enough 
to hold a shape. Then roll into balls about the size of a large marble and 
sprinkle with chocolate spangles, cocoanut or finely chopped nuts. Store in 
tightly closed container. Makes 18 to 20. 


CINNAMON NUTS 


1 cup granulated sugar 4 cup boiling water 
14 tsp. cinnamon 114 cups walnut meat 
Ve tsp. cream of tartar 16 tsp. vanilla 


Mix sugar, cinnamon, cream of tartar and boiling water in saucepan. Cook 
until mixture reaches 246° F. or until a little of the mixture forms a firm ball 
when dropped in cold water. Add vanilla and nuts, stirring until mixture 
“sugars’’ and coats nuts, turn out on waxed paper and separate nuts. Makes 
about 34 Ib 


COCOANUT CREAM CANDY 


3 cups granulated sugar 14 teaspoon cream of tartar 
34, cup water 


Boil without stirring often; when the syrup will spin a fine thread or form 
a firm ball when tested in cold water, remove from heat, beat untli it begins 
to cream. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla and beat in two cups finely grated cocoa- 
nut. Pour in buttered pan to cool. Pan should be about 8 x 10 in. square 
and 114 in. deep. Cut in squares, wrap in wax paper and store until used. 


CREAM-CHEESE FUDGE 


1 3-oz. pkg. cream cheese, 1 teaspoon vanilla 
softened 3 1-oz. squares unsweetened 
1 pound confectioner’s sugar, chocolate, melted 
sifted 1 cup broken California walnuts 


3 tablespoons water 


Combine cream cheese, sugar, water and vanilla, blending smooth. Quick- 
ly stir in melted chocolate and nuts. Turn into buttered pan, spreading fudge 
1 inch thick. Chill; cut in squares. 


248 CANDY 


CREOLE PRALINES 


2 cups light brown sugar 2 cups pecans 
114 cups coffee cream 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 tablespoon butter 


Stir together in a 2 qt. saucepan, add ingredients except the pecans. Boil, 
stirring constantly for about 30 minutes—or until it forms a soft ball when 
dropped in cold water. Remove from heat, let stand for 5 minutes, beat until 
mixture gets creamy, beat in the vanilla; stir in the pecans until it gets quite 
thick, drop from large spoon to make 3 inch patties on buttered marble slab 
or large platter. Let harden, wrap in wax paper. Store in tin box. 


CUBAN CARAMELS 


1 Ib. brown sugar Dash of salt 
1 cup water 1 tbsp. butter or margarine 
2 tsps. instant coffee 14 cup heavy cream 


Mix all ingredients in a large saucepan. Cook over a high heat, stirring 
constantly until sugar is dissolved. When candy boils hard, turn down heat 


and cook slowly until candy thermometer reaches 252° F. or mixture forms a 
hard ball when tested in cold water. Remove from heat. Wipe any crystals 
away from sides of the pan with damp paper toweling and pour into a greased 
8 inch square pan. Cool completely and break into squares. Makes 1 Ib. of 
caramels. 


DIVINITY FUDGE 


3 cups granulated sugar 2 egg whites 

1, cup white corn syrup 14 cup maraschino cherries, cut 
ly cup cold water in halves 

Pinch of salt 14 cup chopped walnuts 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


Place sugar, corn syrup, water, and salt in saucepan over low heat, cook 
until a small amount dropped in cold water forms a hard or firm ball. Beat 
egg whites and pour one-half the sugar mixture over them, cook other half 
of the syrup a little longer, add to first part of cooked mixture; add maras- 


chino cherries and walnuts. Beat until stiff enough to drop in 114 inch blobs 
on waxed paper. 


CANDY 249 


FONDANT 
(Basic recipe for cream gems with nuts or fruit) 


5 cups of sugar 4 tsp. cream of tartar 
114 cups water 


Combine sugar and water in 3 qt. sauce pan. Dissolve thoroughly before 
boiling point is reached, wash down sides of saucepan with pastry brush dip- 
ped in water, add cream of tartar, cook with lid on saucepan three minutes. 
Remove cover and boil without stirring until a small bit of the syrup will form 
a soft bail in cold water. Pour on a large platter or marble slab wiped with 
cold water. Cook to lukewarm and turn to center of platter, working back 
and forth until smooth. Knead well and put mixture in bowl. Cover with 
waxed paper or plate. Let ripen over night. May be divided in 4 parts, add- 
ing food coloring to each part, if desired. Some may be filled with a blanch- 
ed almond; some with a crystallized cherry which has been soaked in brandy; 
some rolled in chopped nuts; and others with half a walnut or pecan on top. 
Any of these may be dipped in melted chocolate. 


MILLION DOLLAR FUDGE 


414 cups sugar 2 tbsps. butter 
Pinch of salt 1 tall can evaporated milk 


Boil six minutes; put in large bowl: 12 ounces German sweet chocolate, | 
pint of marshmallow cream, 2 cups chopped nut meats. Pour boiling syrup 
over ingredients in bowl. Beat until chocolate is all melted then pour in 
buttered pan. Let stand a few hours before cutting. Store in tin box. 


OPERA FUDGE 


2 cups sugar _ 2 tbsps. butter or margarine 
34, cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Dash of salt 1 teaspoon It. corn syrup 
2 1-oz. squares unsweetened 
chocolate 


Butter sides of a 2 qt. saucepan; in it combine sugar, milk, chocolate, salt 
and corn syrup. Heat over medium heat stirring constantly until sugar dis- 
solves and chocolate melts and mixture comes to boiling. Then cook to soft 
ball stage. Immediately remove from heat, add butter and cool to lukewarm 
(110° F.) without stirring. Add vanilla. Beat vigorously until fudge becomes 
very thick and starts to lose its gloss. Quickly spread in buttered shallow 
pan or small platter. Score six squares while still warm; place 14 walnut on 
each square. If you like better, stir in 14 cup broken nuts at end of beating 
time. 


250 CANDY 


PANACHA 
1 cup brown sugar 14 cup broken pecans 
114 cups granulated sugar 1, cup sweet milk 
14 cup light cream 2 tbsps. butter or margarine 


1 teaspoon yanilla 


Butter sides of heavy 2 qt. saucepan. In it combine sugars, cream, milk 
and butter. Heat over medium heat, stirring constantly until sugars dissolve 
and mixture comes to boiling. Then cook to soft ball stage (238°), stirring 
only if necessary. Immediately remove from heat and cool to lukewarm 
(110°) without stirring. Add vanilla. Beat vigorously till fudge becomes 
very thick and starts to lose its gloss. Quickly stir in nuts and spread in but- 
tered shallow pan or small platter. Score in squares while warm; cut when 
firm. 


PEANUT BRITTLE 


114 cups granulated sugar 14 cup water 
14 cup white karo syrup 


Put on stove in heavy saucepan and cook until syrup bubbles; then put in 
2 cups blanched raw peanuts. Let cook until peanuts begin to pop. Just 
before removing from fire, stir in 1 rounded tsp. baking soda. Stir well, then 
pour on buttered marble slab or large platter. Spread out as thin as possible. 
Use cloth napkin when pulling it out. 


ROSE MINTS 


2 cups granulated sugar 14 tsp. (scant) cream of tartar 
14 cup water 


Cook until it forms a soft ball (not sticky) when dropped in cold water. 
While cooking syrup, beat 1 egg white (as for meringue) and pour syrup very 
slowly at first beating all the time, then pour syrup faster. Batter must be 
cool enough to handle. Add 3 drops of peppermint to mixture before put- 
ting in pastry bag; use large pastry tube fitted in bag, squeeze through onto 
waxed paper. Makes | Ib. 


MRS. SHAY’S MINTS 


2 cups granulated sugar lf, Ib. butter 
74 cup boiling water 


Cook butter, sugar and water until sugar is dissolved and until a small bit 
dropped in cold water will form a hard ball, or if you have a candy ther- 
mometer it registers 260° F. Remove from heat, add color if desired and 12 
drops of peppermint. Pour on greased platter or marble slab. When cool 
enough to handle easily, pull until creamy, then cut in small pieces. 


CANDY 25] 


SOUTHERN PRALINES 


1 Ib. light brown sugar 3 tablespoons butter 
1 Ib. pecans 4 tablespoons water 


In buttered sides of a 2 qt. saucepan, cook butter sugar and water until it 
thickens, add pecans which have been broken in quarters. Remove from 
heat and drop by spoonfuls (large) on a buttered cookie sheet or large platter. 
Put 14 pecan on each pattie. 


SUGARED WALNUTS 


Toast lightly 2 cups walnut halves in slow oven. Mix 3 cups of sugar, 10 
tablespoons of orange juice, grated rind of one orange, 14, tsp. salt. Cook 
as a syrup to soft ball stage or 238° F. Stir well and add nuts. Do not break 
the walnuts. At a certain point the syrup will begin to whiten and sugar. 
Lift out the nuts with their sugar coating a piece at the ime. Dry on wax 


paper. 


TURKISH FRUIT SQUARES 


2 pkgs. Raspberry gelatin 1% cup cold water 
14 cup boiling water 14 cup chopped raisins 
114 cups sugar 14 cup chopped pecans 


Combine gelatin and boiling water, let stand 15 minutes; combine sugar 
and cold water; boil over medium heat, without stirring, to 238° F., syrup 
spins a thread. Remove from heat. Add slowly to gelatin, stirring well. Mix 
in raisins and pecans. Pour into greased shallow pan 8 in. square. Chill 
over night, cut into 1 in. squares. Roll in sugar or chopped nuts. Makes 
114 pounds. 


WALNUT FUDGE 


14 cup condensed milk 16 marshmallows (large) 
1 cup sugar 1 cup black walnuts 
1 pkg. chocolate bits 14 tsp. each salt and vanilla 


Put sugar, condensed milk, chocolate and salt in heavy saucepan over slow 
heat. Bring to boil and cook 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from 
heat, add walnuts and vanilla. Beat until thick. Pour into buttered pan 
8 x 10 inches, cool. Cut in squares. 


JAMS 


Jams and Jellies do much better to be cooked in small quantities, 6 or 8 
glasses is a good quantity to make at a time. A larger quantity often turns 
to a syrup rather than to jell. 


BLACKBERRY JAM 


Crush 2 quarts of blackberries. Put in boiler and let cook 8 minutes. Put 
through a sieve to remove seed. To each cup of the sieved blackberries, add 
1 cup of sugar; cook 10 minutes. It requires more time for some berries to 
jell than others. Select those not too ripe for best results. Try a little ona 
cold saucer or plate and if it jells, put in glasses. When cool cover with 
paraffin and seal. You will always get good results if you use Sure Jell and 
cook as directed on Sure Jell package. 


Blueberries and Strawberries can be cooked or prepared in the same way 
as Blackberries. 


CURRANT RAISIN AND ORANGE JAM 


Two pounds seedless raisins; five pounds fresh currants; four large oranges; 
five pounds granulated sugar. 


Stem and wash the currants carefully. Peel and slice three of the oranges; 
put the orange peel in cold water and let it come slowly to the boiling point. 
Drain off the water and chop the orange peel coarsely. Add the sugar and 
juice of all the oranges, then other ingredients. Heat slowly. Bring to the 
boiling point and boil until thick, about 20 minutes. Pour into glass jars. 
When cool, seal. 


GOLDEN PINEAPPLE JAM 


1 Ib. dried apricots 114 cups granulated sugar 
3 cups water 3 tbsp. lemon juice 
1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple 


Wash and drain apricots. Add water and simmer covered for 30 minutes. 
Cool; then mash to a pulp. Add pineapple and sugar. Simmer for 20 min- 
utes, stirring often to prevent burning. Stir in lemon juice. Pack immed- 
iately in scalded jelly glasses to within 14” of top. Cover with 14” of paraffin. 
When cool top with tight cover. Makes 3 pints. 


252 


JAMS 203 


PINEAPPLE AND PEACH JAM 


Fourteen pounds peaches; one pineapple; nine pounds sugar. Blanch and 
peel the peaches; remove the stones and cut the fruit in thin slices. Pare and 
remove the eyes from the pineapple. Grate it. Add to the peaches and the 
juice of both. Put the fruit and sugar in alternate layers in the preserving 
kettle and let stand for 2 hours. Then put the kettle on the heat and boil for 
45 minutes, stirring occasionally. Seal. 


RHUBARB AND FIG JAM 


Five pounds rhubarb, one pound cut up dried figs; four pounds sugar. Wash 
the figs and soak two hours. Put through the food chopper. Cut the rhubarb 
in small pieces. Add the figs, sugar and water that the figs have soaked in. 
Boil for an hour or until very thick. Put into sterilized jars. 


STRAWBERRY AND RHUBARB JAM 


3 cups prepared fruit 414 cups granulated sugar 
1 214-0z. box powdered pectin 


Wash, trim, slice fine 14 |b. small red rhubarb. Do not peel. Hull, wash 
1 qt. ripe strawberries. Crush, one layer at a time, to reduce to pulp. Com- 
bine fruits; measure 3 cups into a 6 qt. kettle. (Fill last cup with water if 
needed.) Add pectin; mix well. Bring to rolling boil, stirring constantly. 
Then stir in sugar. To reduce foaming 14, teaspoon butter may be added. 
Bring to full, rolling boil; boil 1 min. Remove from heat; skim rapidly. Pour 
quickly into freshly scalded jelly glasses to within 14” of top. Cover at once 
with 14” layer of hot paraffin. Cool; cover with tight covers. Makes about 
7 6-o0z. glasses. 


WHOLE STRAWBERRY JAM 


4 cups (2 Ibs.) strawberries, 2 tbsp. lemon juice 
washed and drained 14 8-oz. bottle liquid pectin 
7 cups granulated sugar 


Put layer of berries in kettle and cover with layer of sugar. Continue to 
alternate layers of berries, then sugar until all has been used, leaving sugar 
on top. Let stand over night. Mix well and let come toa rolling boil. Stir 
constantly before and while boiling. Boil hard for 1 min. Remove from 
heat and add liquid pectin. Ladle off a few glasses of hot clear syrup for 
jelly. Strain into jelly glasses. Then stir and swim jam for just 5 min.; cool 
lightly to prevent fruit from floating. Then pour in hot sterilized jelly glasses 
to within 14° of top. Cover at once with hot paraffin; cover tightly. Makes 
from 3 to 6 glasses of jelly and 7 glasses of jam. 


JELLIES 


APPLE JELLY 


Two quarts of chopped apples with peeling on; (sour apples are best); | 
pint water. Cook apples in water ten minutes. Put in cheese cloth bag and 
dip juice out. Do not squeeze, it will not be clear if pulp is mashed. To each 
cup of juice, add 1 cup of sugar. Cook in heavy skillet about 10 minutes; 
test a little mixture on a cold plate, if it will not jell, cook a few minutes 
longer. Pour in sterilized jelly glasses, cover with hot paraffin about 1” 
thick and cover with tight lids. 


CRAB APPLE JELLY 


Cook as above Apple Jelly, treat in same manner, then add 11% cups of 
sugar to each cup of juice. Cook and test as Apple Jelly then put in jelly 
glasses, cover with hot paraffin and cover tightly to seal. 


CRANBERRY JELLY 


4 cups cranberries 2 cups granulated sugar 
2 cups boiling water 


Pick over cranberries; wash. Place in saucepan with water. Boil until all 
berries burst open, about 10 min. Pour into sieve; mash through as much 
pulp as possible. Add sugar, return to heat; bring slowly to full rolling boil, 
stirring so all sugar is dissolved. Boil until mixture falls in sheet from 
spoon—about 5 minutes. Pour at once into wet mold or sterilized glasses. 
Chill until set; unmold. Serve with meat, fish or poultry. Makes 6 servings. 


GOOSEBERRY JELLY 


3 qts. green gooseberries Sugar 
2 qts. water 


Boil gooseberries in water in kettle until soft enough to mash easily. Strain 
and put through jelly bag. Add to every pint of juice, 1 Ib. of sugar. Cook 
rapidly for 10 minutes, skimming while boiling. Turn into jelly glasses and 
seal after 1” hot paraffin has covered the jelly. 


QUINCE JELLY 


3 pounds of quince. Scald and rub off peelings. Cut up and add half as 
much water as the cut up quince measures. Boil 20 minutes. Pour quince 
mixture in thin muslin bag to drip, do not squeeze or the jelly will be cloudy. 
Add 1 Ib. of sugar to each pt. of juice. Cook until the juice jells. Pour in 
sterilized jelly glasses, cover with 1” hot paraffin and seal with tight lids. 


254 


PRESERVES 


ere 


CHERRY PRESERVES 
6 Ibs. cherries, seeded 6 Ibs. sugar 


Soak cherries in sugar over night. Put in preserving kettle and cook slowly 
until done. Stir frequently to prevent sticking and burning. The syrup should 
be real thick. 


DAMSON PRESERVES 


6 Ibs. of Damsons, less if you like. Wash and put in kettle and boil 10 
minutes; remove from heat and seed. Put back in kettle with measure of 
fruit for measure of sugar. Cook until thick. 


FIG PRESERVES 
5 Ibs. figs 5 Ibs. sugar 


Remove stems from figs; soak in soda water for 2 hours, rinse well. Return 
to kettle with the sugar. Cook slowly until thick. A little ginger may be add- 
ed a few minutes before taking from the heat. A few slices of lemon may 
be added if preferred to the ginger. Some people like the fig flavor without 
the ginger or lemon so season to taste; put in jars and seal. 


PEACH PRESERVES 


Cling stone peaches are best to preserve. Peel and cut in halves, 6 Ibs. 
medium sized peaches; cover with 6 Ibs. of sugar and let set over night. Next 
morning put in kettle and cook slowly until transparent. If the syrup is not 
as thick as desired, remove peaches on a large platter continue cooking syrup 
until thick enough... Return peaches to syrup, cook for five minutes. Put in 
jars and seal. 


295 


256 PRESERVES 


PEAR PRESERVES 


6 Ibs. is the average amount of preserves to cook at one time. Peel and 
cut pears in quarters. Drop in weak salt water for 20 minutes to prevent 
turning dark. Rinse well; pour 6 lbs. of sugar over the pears and let set over 
night. Next morning put pears in kettle and cook until transparent. A little 
ginger root cooked for 10 minutes with the pears adds a delightful flavor! 
Also cook 2 tbsp. of vinegar with the pears, as they crystallize easily and the 
vinegar will prevent them from crystallizing. 


EASY STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 


9 heaping cups of strawberries 3 tbsp. of vinegar 
9 level cups of sugar 


Cook over low heat, when the strawberries come to a boil, boil hard for 15 
minutes. Pour in platter one inch thick and let stand over night. Next 
morning put in jars and seal with paraffin. 


CONSERVES 


BRANDIED FIGS 


4 ibs. Figs 2 cups water 
4 Ibs. sugar Brandy 


Wash and soak figs in soda water for 20 minutes. Rinse well. Make a 
syrup of sugar and water; when sugar is dissolved add figs and cook until they 
are transparent. Set aside for 24 hours; drain off syrup and cook until thick. 
When cold add to syrup an equal part of Brandy. Put the figs in bottles or 
jars and fill with the Brandy syrup. Seal. 


BRANDIED PEACHES 


9 Ibs. peaches 1 pt. water 
5 Ibs. sugar 1 qt. Brandy 


Peel the peaches or skin after plunging in hot water. Then put them in 
cold water. Let the sugar cook with the water until it makes a thick syrup. 
Then put in peaches, enough for 2 jars and cook until easily pierced with a 
fork; put in jars and cook more peaches until all are done. Remove the syrup 
from heat and to every cup of syrup add 14 cup brandy. Pour over the peaches 
in the jars and seal. Will keep indefinitely if not eaten! 


CALAMONDIN MARMALADE 


3 cups prepared calamondin juice 3 cups sugar 
1 tsp. powdered pectin (if desired) 


To prepare fruit, select solid well-colored calamondins. Wash thoroughly. 
Add 1 tbsp. soda for each quart of fruit. Cover with boiling water. Let stand 
10 minutes. Pour off soda water; rinse thoroughly. 


Cut calamondins into thin slices, removing seeds. Or fruit may be ground 
in food chopper, using coarse blade. 


Measure fruit; add 3 cups of water for each cup fruit. Cook until fruit is 
tender. Or cook in pressure cooker at 10 Ib. pressure for 3 minutes. 


Bring 3 cups prepared fruit and juice to a boil. Add sugar slowly, stirring 
until dissolved. (Pectin should be mixed with sugar, if used). 


Boil rapidly to the jelly stage, 222 degrees on a jelly thermometer. This 
takes about 20 min. Remove from heat. Cool a few minutes to release air 
bubbles. Pour into sterilized jars. Seal. 


257, 


258 CONSERVES 


ITALIAN PRUNE CONSERVE 


2 Ibs. Italian prunes 7 cups sugar 

1 orange 1 pkg. powdered pectin 

2 cups water 14 cup coarsely chopped walnut 
14 cup seedless raisins meats 


Chop orange fine, add water and simmer, covered for 20 min. Pit and 
halve the Italian prunes. Chop fine. Add orange. Measure 414 cups of the 
combined fruit into a large saucepan. Add raisins. Measure sugar; set 
aside. Place fruit over high heat. Add powdered pectin; stir until mixture 
comes to a hard boil. Stir in sugar at once. Bring toa full rolling boil; boil 
hard for 1 minute, stirring constantly. Remove from heat. Add nutmeats, 
skim, and ladle quickly into jars. Paraffin. Makes about 11 six ounce 
glasses. 


KUMQUAT MARMALADE 


4 cups prepared Kumquats and 1 tsp. powdered pectin (if desired) 
juice 3 cups sugar 


Prepare kumquats according to directions for calamondin marmalade, us- 
ing soda bath, grinding or slicing and cooking until tender. 

Bring fruit and juice to a boil. Add sugar (mixed with pectin if it is used). 
Cook rapidly until jelly stage is reached, 222 degrees on jelly thermometer. 
This takes about 20 minutes. Remove from heat. Cool a few minutes to 
release air bubbles. Pour into sterilized jars. Seal. 


ORANGE CONSERVE 


314 cups prepared fruit 4 cup chopped raisins 
5 cups granulated sugar 4 cup cut-up maraschino cherries 
14 cup chopped nut meats 14 bottle liquid pectin 


To prepare fruit: Remove skins from 3 oranges and two lemons in quarters. 
Lay skins quarters flat—shave off and discard one-half of white part. With 
very sharp knife, cut skins into fine shreds. Add 114 cups of water, 14 tsp. 
baking soda. Bring to boil and cook 10 minutes. Cut off membrane of peel- 
ed fruit and slip pulp out of each section. Do not drain rind. Add pulp and 
juice and | cup of sugar (this is in addition to other 5 cups of sugar), simmer, 
covered 20 minutes longer. Place nuts, raisins, cherries and this prepared 
fruit in large saucepan with 5 cups of sugar. Bring toa rolling boil, stirring 
constantly; boil | min. There must be 314 cups of prepared fruit juice, rind 
and pulp, if not add water to make 314 cups before adding sugar, etc. Remove 
from heat and add liquid pectin, then stir and skim for 5 minutes. Pour in 
clean jelly glasses to within 14” of top. Cover with 14.” melted paraffin; cover 
and set away 


CONSERVES 259, 


ORANGE MARMALADE | 


1 grapefruit Sugar, pint to pint 
1 orange 3 times measure of water to fruit 
1 lemon 


Remove seeds and core from grapefruit and orange and seeds from lemon. 
Put through meat grinder. Cover fruit with water and let stand over night. 
Next day boil 10 minutes, let stand overnight. Next day measure pint of 
fruit to pint of sugar and boil 114 hours or until stiff. Seal in sterilized jars 
or glasses. 


ORANGE MARMALADE II 


1 grapefruit 2 lemons 
2 oranges 


Cut in 8ths; add 3 cups of water to one of fruit, let stand over night. Next 
morning cook 20 minutes, let stand until the next morning. Then cook 20 
minutes, cool and cut fine with scissors and add a measure of sugar to each 
measure of fruit. Boil about 2 hours. Put in jars or jelly glasses and seal. 


PEACH CONSERVE LENOX 


Slice 3 oranges and | lemon very thin. (Use an extra sharp knife). Dis- 
card the seeds. Mix orange and lemon slices with 6 pounds of peeled peaches, 
add 10 cups granulated sugar and 2 tsp. cinnamon. Let stand 10 minutes to 
draw out the juice. Mix in 144 cups chopped seeded raisins and 1 tsp. salt. 
Simmer until the conserve thickens—about an hour over low heat. Stir fre- 
quently with a long handled spoon. Stir in 1 cup English walnuts, pecans or 
shredded almonds. Cook 5 minutes. Pour into sterilized jars and seal at 
once. 

Peach conserve lenox is a spread of many uses. It goes deliciously with hot 
breads, makes a grand pudding topper and is a fine accompaniment for roast 
beef, lamb or chicken, however they’re cooked. 


PEACH CONSERVE 


14 large peaches 2 cups crystallized pineapple 
4 oranges (cut in small pieces) 

4 pts. sugar 4 |b. maraschino cherries (cut 
14 Ib. coarsely cut up pecans in halves) 


Peel the peaches and cut in small pieces. Add the sugar, pulp of oranges 
and grated rind of 2 oranges. Cook 45 minutes, stirring constantly to pre- 
vent burning. Add the nuts, pineapple and cherries; cook 10 minutes longer. 
Put in jelly glasses and seal. Makes about 8 glasses. This is superb!!! 


260 CONSERVES 


PEACH MARMALADE 


6 large Freestone peaches 1 lemon 
1 orange Sugar 


Wash well and wipe the orange and lemon. Slice and run through the meat 
grinder. Wash and skin peaches and cut into small pieces. Combine quickly 
with the ground orange and lemon, then measure. Use an equal amount of 
sugar to fruit. Cook over moderate heat until transparent and thickened to 
marmalade consistency. Stir occasionally. Pour into sterilized, hot glasses 
or jars and seal at once. Makes 5 1-pint jars. 


PEAR AMBER 
12 medium size Bartlett pears 1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple 
(4 Ibs.) Sugar 
2 large oranges 1 4-oz bottle maraschino cherries 


Wash and peel pears. Remove cores. Cut into small pieces. Wash 
oranges; dice or put through food chopper, using the whole orange. Measure 
pears, orange and pineapple and juice into a large preserving kettle. Add 3%, 
as much sugar as pulp. Let stand over night. Cook slowly until transparent 
and the mixture thickens, 45 min. to 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Add thinly 
sliced rings of cherries and continue cooking 5 min. longer. Pour into hot 
sterilized 14 pint fruit jars. Adjust lids. Seal at once. Makes 7 to 8 jars. 


PEAR CONSERVE 


4 Ibs. pears 1 cup raisins 
4 Ibs. sugar 2 oranges 
1 Ib. raisins 2 cups crushed pineapple 


1 cup walnut meats 


Parboil pears until tender, peel oranges and cut up pulp. Grind orange 
peel in meat chopper fine. Boil sugar, raisins, nuts and pineapple in water 
pears were parboiled in. When this has boiled 10 min. add pears and orange 
pulp and cook until thick. Seal in pint jars or jelly glasses. 


TOMATO CONSERVE 


7 Ibs. tomatoes 14, doz. whole cloves 

5 Ibs. sugar 2 sticks cinnamon 

2 lemons, seeded and sliced 14 doz. whole allspice 
very thin 


Put spices in cheese cloth bag and boil with tomatoes and lemons until 
transparent, remove spice bag; add sugar and cook until thick. Delicious 
with meats or as a preserve. 


CONSERVES 261 


PECAN GRAPE CONSERVE 


21% Ibs. Concord grapes 14, seeded orange ground, skin 
6 cups granulated sugar and all 
2 tbsp. lemon juice 14 cup pecans, broken, not chopped 


Remove skins from pulp of grapes. Simmer pulp 12 min., then rub through 
a sieve. Combine sieved pulp, grape skins and remaining ingredients. Cook, 
stirring occasionally, over medium heat, until mixture appears jelly-like— 
about 50-60 min. Then pour quickly into freshly scalded jelly glasses to 
within 14” of top. Cover at once with 14” layer of hot paraffin. Cool; cover 
with tight fitting cover. Makes eight 6 oz glasses. 


WATERMELON CONSERVE 


4 pts. watermelon rind, grated 2 lemons, finely cut or thinly sliced 
6 pts. sugar 1 can grated pineapple 
2 pts. water 4 lb. broken pecan meats 


Peel the green rind from watermelon, remove all the pink part. Cut in 
small strips and run through meat grinder or grater. Drain well. Put the 
sugar and water in kettle and boil well; put the watermelon in it and boil until 
clear. When about half done, put in the lemons and cook 15 minutes. Then 
add the pineapple and nutmeats and cook until quite thick. Remove from 
fire, put in glasses and seal. 


PICKLES 


iTS 


| ARTICHOKE PICKLES 
1 peck Artichokes (scrub well). Make syrup of: 


3 qts. cider vinegar | 14 oz. whole ginger 
2 Ibs. brown sugar ly oz. celery seed 
1% Ib. salt 14 oz. black pepper 


14 oz. whole cloves _ 4, tsp. red pepper 
14 oz. allspice | | 


Mix and boil 10 minutes. After syrup is cold, add: 
14 oz. tumeric \4 Ib. dry mustard 


Mix well and pour over artichokes. Put in jars and seal. Should set 3 or 
4 weeks before using. 


BREAD AND BUTTER PICKLES 


1 gal. fresh sliced cucumbers 14 cup salt 
2 green peppers sliced = 1 qt. crushed ice 
_. + '2 small onions sliced | 


Mix all together. Let stand 3 hours. Drain. Make syrup of: _ 


5 cups vinegar 1% tsp. celery seed 
5 cups sugar 14, tsp. oil of cloves 
2 tbsp. mustard seed 114 tsp. tumeric 


3 tsp. celery seed 
Melt and pour over pickles. Bring to boiling point but do not boil. Bottle 


while hot. 


CANTALOUPE PICKLE 


Select cantaloupes just before they begin to ripen. Peel off outside rind 
and inside seeds and soft meat. 


10 Ibs. rind 10 drops oil of cinnamon 
2 qts. vinegar 5 drops oil of cloves 
8 Ibs. sugar 2 tbsp. white mustard seed 


Soak rind in water, about a gal. of cold water with 1 bottle of Lilly’s lime 
dissolved in it—over night. Next morning wash rind thoroughly in cold water. 
Boil in salt water, 1 cup of salt to a gal. of water for 20 min. Drain and boil 
in ginger water, 14 box of ginger root and 1 gal. of water for 20 min. Drain 
and drop in cold water while syrup is cooking. Boil sugar, vinegar, mustard 
seed and oil of cloves and cinnamon for 15 min. Put rind in syrup and boil 
until clear, about | hr. Very good and unusual! 


oO? 


PICKLES 263 


CHOPPED RAW PICKLE 


2 qts. tomatoes | 2, cup salt 

24, cup grated horseradish 2 tbsp. mustard seed 

2 medium size onions 14 tsp. each ground cinnamon, 
2 heads celery cloves, ginger and mace 

2 sweet red peppers 1 qt. vinegar 


1 cup sugar 


Peel and chop tomatoes; add the horseradish. Run the onions, celery and 
peppers through coarse blade of meat grinder. Mix with the tomato-horse- 
radish mixture; stir well and add salt, sugar, mustard seed and spices. Pour 
vinegar over all and mix thoroughly. Put in jars and seal. Keep at least 2 
weeks before using. 


CRISP CUCUMBER PICKLE 


First Day: Wash 1 pk. of cucumbers, cut in small strips, cover with cold 
water, let stand 24 hours. 


Second Day: Drain off water, add 2 cups salt; cover with boiling water, let 
stand 24 hours. 


Third Day: Drain off water, add 2 oz. of Alum, cover with boiling water, let 
stand 24 hours. 


Fourth Day: Drain off water, add 1 qt. of vinegar, finish filling with boiling 
water, let stand 24 hours. 


Fifth Day: Drain off water and vinegar and reheat, put back in pickles, let 
stand 24 hours. Do this the 6th, 7th, and 8th days. 


Drain off water and make syrup of 5 cups sugar, 5 cups vinegar; add spices. 


CRISP GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 


7 Ibs. green tomatoes 1 tsp. ground cinnamon 
5 Ibs. sugar 1 tsp. ground cloves 

2 vials Lilly’s lime 1 tsp. ground ginger 

14 gal. vinegar 1 tsp. celery seed 


Slice tomatoes thin, make 2 gal. of lime water (1 gal, water to each gal. 
of lime). Pour over tomatoes and let stand 24 hours. Drain, let soak 4 hrs. 
in clear cold water; drain again. Make syrup of sugar, vinegar and spices, 
let come to a boil and pour over tomatoes. Let stand over night. Next morn- 
ing boil all together 10 min. Put in jars and seal. — 


264 PICKLES 


CUCUMBER ICICLE PICKLES 


2 gal. cucumbers, cut lengthwise 1 gal. water 
T pt. salt 


Boil water, add salt and pour over cut up cucumbers. Let stand one week. 
Drain and wash off brine water; add 1 gal. boiling water and let stand for 24 
hours. Drain; add 1 gal. boiling water and a piece of alum the size of a 
walnut. Let stand 24 hours. Drain. Make syrup of 214 pt. vinegar, 8 pt. 
sugar, | box pickling spices. Boil and pour over cucumbers. Let stand 24 
hours. Heat and pour over cucumbers daily for 4 days. Jut in jars with syrup 
and seal. Some trouble but excellent!!! 


DAMSON SWEET PICKLE 


10 Ibs. Damsons 114 qts. vinegar 
8 ibs. sugar 1 box pickling spices 


First split damsons and remove seeds. Then make syrup of sugar, vinegar 
and pickling spices, tied in muslin bag. Boil 10 min. Add damsons and cook 
until tender, about 1 hour. Put in jars and seal. | 


GREEN TOMATO PICKLES 


Wash and slice 7 Ibs. green tomatoes. Slice 14,” thick. Mix 3 bottles of 
Lilly’s lime in 2 gal. of water. Put sliced tomatoes in this lime water and let 
soak for 24 hours. Stir several times while tomatoes are in lime water. (Be 
careful not to break tomatoes). Wash the lime water off the tomatoes, add 
1 gal. of water to which 14, lb. alum has been added, let tomatoes soak an- 
other 24 hours. Wash in clear water and soak in ginger water, 1 can or 1 
box ginger (1 oz.) to 2 gal. of water. The third day, make syrup of: 


5 pts. vinegar 1 tsp. allspice 
8 Ibs. sugar 1 tsp. celery seed 
1 tsp. whole cloves 1 tsp. cinnamon 


Cook about 15 min. Pour this over the drained tomatoes; let stand 30 min. 
Put back on stove and simmer 20 min. Put in jars and seal while hot. 


PICKLED CHERRIES 


2 Ib. (214 cups firmly packed) 2 tbsp. whole cloves 
brown sugar 4 sticks cinnamon (in pieces) 
1 pt. cider vinegar 2 qt. (4 Ibs.) sour red cherries 


Cook brown sugar, vinegar, cloves and cinnamon together for about 3 min. 
Dump in washed, unpitted cherries and cook until almost tender—no longer 
than 5 min. Pour cherries and juice into 5 sterilized pint jars and seal secure- 
ly. These pickled cherries taste grand with meat or fowl. 


PICKLES 265 


MUSTARD PICKLES 


1 qt. each of small cucumbers, 1 cup flour 

large cucumbers, diced, small 1 cup sugar 

onions 6 tbsp. dry mustard 
4 green peppers, cut fine 1 tbsp. tumeric 
1 qt. cauliflower About 2 qts. vinegar 


1 qt. sweet red pepper strips 


Make a brine of 4 qts. water and 1 pt. salt. Pour this over the vegetables 
and let soak 24 hours. Heat to scalding point and then put in collander and 
drain. Mix flour, sugar, mustard, and tumeric with enough cold vinegar to 
make 2 gts. Boil mixture until it thickens, stirring constantly to keep it from 
sticking. Add vegetables and cook until heated through. Put in jars and 
seal. 


SWEET PICKLED FIGS 


4 Ibs. figs (picked with stems) 3 tbsp. pickling spices (put in 
4 Ibs. sugar cheese cloth bag) 


1 pt. vinegar 


Scald figs in soda water (sprinkle 1 tbsp. soda over figs and cover with 
boiling water). Let stand 5 min. Put in collander and wash lightly with cold 
water; drain. Put the figs with all other ingredients in preserving kettle and 
cook over low heat until dissolved, then turn up flame and boil 15 min. Set 
aside until next day. Pour off liquid and bring to a boil, pour over figs. This 
is done for 3 days. On fourth day boil all together for 15 min. and seal in jars. 


SWEET PICKLED PEACHES 


8 Ibs. peaches 5 drops oil of cloves 
4 Ibs. sugar 10 drops oil of cinnamon 


1 qt. vinegar 


Peel peaches, put in porcelain container; cover with cold water in which 
3 tbsp. of salt has been dissolved. (This prevents the peaches from discolor- 
ing). Make a syrup of the sugar and vinegar; add the cloves and cinnamon, 
boil 5 min. Put in some of the peaches, enough to fill 2 qt. cans; boil until 
easily pierced with a fork. Put in hot cans. Continue until all the peaches 
are ready for the jars. Boil syrup 10 min. Pour over peaches and seal. 


An attractive addition, put 6 maraschino cherries in each jar before the 
hot syrup is poured over them. The liquid in the cherries may be drained in 
the syrup while it is boiling. If any syrup is left, put up until other pickles 
are made and add it to the other syrup. The peaches should set 2 months 
before using. 


tS EE agar Mais tC CNIE OS 





SWEET PICKLED PRUNES 


4 Ibs. prunes : 1 tbsp. cloves 
2 ibs. sugar 7 | T stick cinnamon 
2 cups vinegar 14 oz. whole ginger 


Wash prunes and soak in cold water over night. Next morning bring to 
boiling point and cook 10 min. Cook sugar, vinegar and spices for 10 min.; 
drain prunes from water and put in syrup. Cook slowly until tender. Put in 
jars and seal. 


WATERMELON RIND SWEET PICKLES 


10 Ibs. watermelon rind, cut in strips 
squares or any desired shape 


Trim off green outside rind and cut off all pink meat. Cover in porcelain 
container over night with 1 gal. of cold water in which is dissolved 1 bottle 
Lilly’s lime. Next morning rinse well in cold water; then boil in salt water 
(to taste) for 20 min. Rinse in cold water and boil in ginger water, enough to 
cover rind; 14 box ginger root is the right proportion; boil 1 hour. Drain and 
cook in syrup made of: 8 Ibs. sugar, 2 qts vinegar, 10 drops oil of cinnamon, 
5 drops oil of cloves, 12 tbsp. white mustard seed. Boil until transparent, 
about 2 hours. Put in jars and seal. | 


RELISHES 


ARTICHOKE RELISH 


14 pk. artichokes 1 tsp. tumeric 

4 large onions, cut up 14 tsp. red pepper 

214 cups granulated sugar 2 tbsp. white mustard seed 
3 pts. vinegar 4 tbsp. salt 


Wash and scrape artichokes well, then grind them up coarsely. Mix with 
other ingredients and simmer for half an hour. Put in jars and seal. 


CABBAGE RELISH 


1 medium head cabbage 2 tsp. mustard seed 
10 carrots 2 tsp. celery seed 

4 large onions 1 cup sugar 

3 green peppers 1 cup wine vinegar 
2 tsp. salt — 1 cup water 


Work cabbage and carrots through your food grinder (you should have 4 
cups of each); grind onions and peppers. Put the ground vegetables and all 
remaining ingredientts in a large kettle and cook over a medium heat (cover 
the kettle) for about 1 hour. Give relish an occasional stir. Spoon into 6 
sterilized pint jars and seal securely. 


CHILI SAUCE 


12 large ripe tomatoes 6 tbsp. sugar 
10 small onions 3 tbsp. salt 
4 small red peppers 5 cups vinegar 


14 head medium size cabbage 


Chop all vegetables fine; add remaining ingredients and boil 1 hour. Be- 
fore taking from the fire, stir in 1 tsp. each of ground cinnamon, cloves, mus- 
tard and allspice. Put in jars or jelly glasses and seal. 


267 


268 


RELISHES 


CHOW CHOW | 


1 gal. chopped cabbage 
12 onions 

12 sweet bell peppers 
12 sweet red peppers 

5 gts. green tomatoes 

5 cups sugar 


4 tbsp. white mustard seed 
1 tbsp. ginger 

3 tbsp. celery seed 

2 tbsp. mixed spices 

2 or 3 qts. vinegar 


Run onions, peppers and tomatoes through a coarse meat grinder; add 14 


cup salt. Let stand over night; drain. 


Put the spices in a thin muslin bag, 


add sugar and vinegar and make a syrup. Put in other ingredients and boil 
20 minutes. Pour into hot sterilized jars and seal white hot. 


CHOW CHOW il 


1 pk. green tomatoes 
1 pk. sweet green peppers 
14 pk. sweet red peppers 


2 Ig. heads cabbage 
6 Ibs. onions 


Scald and peel green tomatoes; remove stems and seeds from peppers; 
shred cabbage or grind in coarse knife of meat chopper. Soak all in salt 
water all night, using | cup salt to 1 gal. of water. Drain next morning and 
add 1 package of pickling spices tied up in a muslin bag; add loose, 2 tbsp. 
ground black pepper, 2 tbsp. white mustard seed, 8 Ibs. brown sugar (14 
white and 14 brown will be ok), about 6 qts. vinegar. Try 4 ats. first and add 
a little more if necessary. Cook all together until done, about 30 minutes. 
This will make 18 or 20 quarts a chow chow. 


2 Ibs. ripe tomatoes, chopped 
14 lb. onions, chopped 

2 Ibs sour apples, chopped 

1 Ib. seeded raisins, chopped 
2 tbsp. salt (level) 

2 oz. ground ginger 

2 oz. ground mustard 

1 tbsp. cayenne pepper (level) 


CHUTNEY 


2 qts. vinegar 

5 lemons, grated (rind & juice) 
14 lb. brown sugar 

2 medium onions, chopped 

1 tbsp. white mustard seed 

14 tbsp. tumeric 

1 tbsp. curry powder (level) 


Boil tomatoes, apples, onions and vinegar together until soft; mash through 
colander; then put all ingredients together and boil until thick, about one- 
half hour, stirring constantly. Put in sterilized jars and seal. 


RELISHES 269 


INDIA RELISH 


12 ripe tomatoes, peeled 6 sweet green peppers 
12 green tomatoes, scalded and 6 sweet red peppers 
peeled 8 medium sized onions 


Grind in coarse blade of grinder; put in bag and drain for 1 hour. 


Syrup: 
4 cups sugar 4 tsp. celery seed 
4 cups vinegar 4 tsp. salt 
4 tsp. white mustard seed 2 tbsp. pickling spices, tied in bag 


Put tomato, pepper, onion mixture in kettle with the syrup and boil hard 
for 14 hour. Put in jars and seal. 


CRANBERRY ORANGE RELISH 
(No Cooking) 


4 cups fresh cranberries 2 cups sugar 
2 oranges, quartered and seeded 


Put cranberries and oranges through food chopper (coarse blade). Stir in 
sugar and chill. Makes 2 pints. Will keep well in refrigerator for weeks. 


IOWA GREEN TOMATO RELISH 


Mix 1 pk. ground green tomatoes with 1 cup salt, let drain in a cloth bag 
over night. The next morning grind 1 medium head of cabbage, 6 green 
peppers, 5 red peppers, 6 medium onions. Mix all together in a large kettle 
and add: 


3 qt. vinegar 2 tbsp, mustard seed 
8 cups sugar 1 tbsp. whole cloves 
2 tbsp. celery seed 


Cook until the onions are tender, then seal in hot sterilized jars. 


MEXICAN COLESLAW 


1 small head cabbage 4 tsp. ground coriander 
1 small onion 14 tsp. chili powder 

1 green pepper 14 tsp. liquid smoke 

4 slices pimento 1 tsp. salt 


14 cup mayonnaise or salad dressing 1 tsp. sugar 


Shred cabbage fine, cut onion in thin slices, cut green pepper and pimento 
in slender strips. Toss together in a salad bowl and refrigerate until dinner 
time. Mix mayonnaise with remaining ingredients. Pour over cabbage mix- 
ture at last minute and toss lightly but thoroughly. Makes 6 servings. 


270 RELISHES 


FRENCH RELISH 


1 doz. sweet red peppers 3 Ibs. onions 
1 doz. sweet green peppers 4 qts. green tomatoes 
6 Ibs. cabbage 


Run through coarse meat grinder. Make a brine of 1 gal. water and | cup 
salt. Make more if needed to cover the mixture. Soak over night. Next 
morning boil in same brine 10 minutes. Drain well and cook in the follow- 


ing syrup: 


5 cups sugar 14 cup flour 
2 qts. vinegar 14 tbsp. black pepper 
2 tbsp. tumeric 3 tbsp. dry mustard 


2 tbsp. celery seed 


Mix ingredients; add vinegar, mixing smooth! Let come to a boil, stirring 
constantly as it sticks easily. Add vegetables and continue cooking 10 min. 
Seal in sterilized jars. 


PEPPER HASH 


1 pk. sweet green peppers 1 tbsp. tumeric 

14 pk. sweet red peppers 3 Ibs. sugar 

4 Ibs. chopped cabbage 2 qts. vinegar 

2 Ibs. onions 14 cup salt 

2 tbsp. mustard seed 2 pods red pepper 


2 tbsp. celery seed 


Run peppers, cabbage and onions through a coarse meat grinder. Put in 
vessel with salt and 2 qts. of water; soak over night and drain through col- 
lander next morning. Put in kettle with sugar, vinegar and spices and cook 
until cabbage is done, about 1 hour. Put in sterilized jars and seal. 


PEPPER RELISH 


12 red peppers 2 cups sugar 

12 green peppers 3 tsp. salt 

12 onions 1 tsp. celery seed 
2 cups vinegar 1 tsp. mustard seed 


1 cup water 


Wash and remove seed from peppers and drain. Clean onions and cut in 
quarters; grind peppers and onions in food chopper. Pour boiling water 
(enough to cover) over mixture and let stand 5 minutes. Drain through col- 
anger Add other ingredients and boil together 10 minutes. Pack in sterjl- 
ized jars. 


RELISHES 271 


RIPE PLUM RELISH 


314 cups prepared fruit 16 cup vinegar 
614 cups sugar 14 bottle fruit pectin 


To prepare fruit, pit (do not peel) about 2 Ibs. fully ripe plums. Grind or 
chop fine; add 14, to 1 tsp. each cinnamon, cloves and allspice or other de- 
sired spices. Measure sugar, prepared fruit, and vinegar into large kettle. 
Mix well. Bring to a full rolling boil over hot fire. Stir constantly before and 
while boiling. Boil hard 1 min. Remove from fire and stir in bottled fruit 
pectin. Skim; pour quickly. Paraffin hot relish at once. Makes about 10 
glasses (6 fluid oz. each). 


SPEEDY CORN RELISH 


2 cups drained whole-kernel corn 4 tsp. celery seed 
4 cup chopped green pepper 1% tsp. salt 
14 medium onion, sliced thinly 14, tsp. dry mustard 
6 tbsp. sweet pickle relish with 2 tbsp. vinegar 
liquid 2 tbsp. white corn syrup 


In saucepan, combine all ingredients; simmer 5 minutes. Refrigerate, 
covered. Serve cold, with a hot or cold roast, ham, franks, etc. Makes 114 
cups. 


STRAWBERRY RELISH 


2 qts. ripe strawberries 14 to 1 tsp. powdered cloves 
4 to 1 tsp. allspice 71% cups granulated sugar 
4 to 1 tsp. cinnamon 2 tbsp. vinegar 


Combine all ingredients; simmer about 5 min. Refrigerate covered. 


TOMATO CATCHUP 
6 large onions 1 pk. ripe tomatoes 


Cut up tomatoes which have been peeled; also onions. Boil until thor- 
oughly done. Add no water. Rub through a sieve and to every gallon of 
pulp add 1 quart of vinegar, 3 tbsp. salt, 2 tbsp. black pepper, 2 tbsp. sugar, 
2 tbsp. ground mustard, | tsp. mace, | tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. cloves, 1 tsp. 
red pepper and | tsp. celery seed. 

Mix all these ground ingredients in a pan with a little of the vinegar, mak- 
ing a smooth paste. Then add all together and cook slowly stirring often and 
keeping the foam skimmed off. Cook until as thick as desired. Put in 
bottles and seal. 


TROPICAL CHILI SAUCE 


Combine | cup chili sauce, 1 cup syrup drained from pineapple, 8 tbsp. 
cornstarch, dash of salt. Cook, stirring constantly, until thick and clear, 
about 5 minutes. 


WINES 


eee 
eS 


BLACKBERRY WINE 


This recipe came from ‘’Gody’s Ladies’ Book’’—one of the first magazines 
published for ladies. | do not know the exact date—but about 1780!! 


1 gal. blackberries, crushed 1 qt. of boiling water 
Put in a crock or porcelain container; cover container with a thin cloth and 
let set for three days. 


Strain and to each gallon of juice, add 3 Ibs. of granulated sugar. Cover 
and let it stand until it stops fermenting. 


Filter or strain through two layers of thin cloth. Bottle. Let ripen for 60 
days before using. It improves with age! 


*Scuppernong Grape or other Grapes make delicious wine made by the 
above recipe. 


A. U. S. SENATOR’S MADEIRA WINE 
(A home brew not made for sale—Excellent!!) 


3 gal. of warm water 2 cakes yeast 
5 Ibs. granulated sugar 4 Ib. crushed almonds (not 
6 Ibs. seeded raisins blanched) 


Method of making: Put all ingredients in a crock; cover and stir well 
every other day for 20 days. Then filter or strain through a thin cloth dou- 
bled. Add 2 Ibs. of sugar, stir well and let set 2 days. Filter again and 
bottle. 


It will be ready for use in 60 days. A delicious wine at a low cost! 


TOMATO WINE 


Use ripe tomatoes, crush and follow recipe for blackberry wine. Makes a 
wine of unusual flavor and greatly adds to a seafood dinner. 


Py 


MISCELLANEOUS AND FOREIGN DISHES 


ae 
————_—__= 


CHILEAN KIDNEY BEANS 


2 medium sized onions 4 tsp. black pepper 

1 Ib. ground beef 2 tbsp. chili powder 

14 cup fat 214 cups canned tomatoes 

2 tsp. salt 214 cups boiled red kidney beans 


Chop onions, cook them and the beef in the fat until lightly browned, stir- 
ring often. Add seasonings and tomatoes and simmer gently for 1 hour. Add 
the kidney beans and simmer several minutes more to allow flavor to blend 
well. Serves 6. 


CHINESE CHOP SUEY 


1 Ib. veal or pork, shredded 14 cup chestnuts, chopped or sliced 
14 cup butter or margarine 2 cups canned bean sprouts 

1 cup peeled and diced mushrooms 2 cups white stock or 4 bouillon 

34, cup chopped celery cubes dissolved in 2 cups hot 

1 onion, chopped water 


Saute meat in melted butter or margarine until well browned. Strain; 
return fat to pan, add mushrooms, celery, onion and chesttnuts; saute 5 min. 
more. Add cooked meat, bean sprouts and stock. Cover and simmer for 30 
minutes. Serve with boiled rice topped with soy sauce and toasted noodles. 


MANDARIN SHRIMP 


4 tbsp. cooking oil 2 ibs. green shrimp 
1 clove garlic, crushed 3/4, cup water 

16 tsp. ground ginger 34, cup ketchup 
Salt and pepper 1 tbsp. cornstarch 


114 cups rice 


Put crushed clove of garlic in oil and cook very gently 3 or 4 minutes. Re- 
move garlic, add other seasonings and blend. Add the shelled, cleaned 
shrimp to the oil and cook for 5 minutes. Then add water, cover tightly and 
cook for 5 minutes. Add ketchup and cook 5 minutes, uncovered. Make a 
paste of the cornstarch and a little water to thicken the juices. Serve hot 
over cooked rice at once. 


Da ie 


274 MISCELLANEOUS AND FOREIGN DISHES 


BO-PE 

Dough: 
1 pkg. yeast 1 tsp. salt 
114 cups warm water 2 tbsp. melted shortening 
4 cups flour 2 tbsp. sugar 


Sift the flour, salt and sugar together in a large bowl and hollow out the 
center. Pour the yeast, which has been dissolved in the warm water into the 
hollow; add the melted shortening and mix well. Knead lightly on a floured 
board until the dough is smooth and elastic. Then place the dough in a 
greased bowl; cover with a sheet of waxed paper and set aside to rise at room 
temperature about 3 hours. Oil your hands and the board with salad oil and 
divide the dough in 24 small workable portions. Press out with the hands 
and then roll with rolling pin until each piece is about 4 inches in diameter. 
Drop good full tbsp. of filling on each piece of dough; then draw up edges 
around filling and make into ball. Press the edges together and turn so the 
seams are underneath. Let rise double. These may be baked or fried. How- 
ever you cook them they are very delicious! Bake at 400° F. for 20 min. or 
Fry in deep fat at 375° F. for 20 min. 


Sweet Filling: 


1 pkg. pitted dates 14 cup orange marmalade 
14 cup pecan meats Rind of 1 lemon, grated 


Grind in coarse meat grinder and fill the pastry dough pieces. 


: Meat Filling: 
14 Ib. ground beef 1 cup minced scallions 
14, |b. chopped mushrooms Salt and pepper to taste 


2 cups minced celery 


When using the meat filling these make a nice main dish. Do try this 
recipe once, you will like it. 


CHINESE FOO CHOW SCRAMBLE 


8 oz. canned mushrooms, sliced 14 cup cream 
214 cups bean sprouts 16 tsp. salt 
6 eggs Dash pepper 


2 tbsp. butter 


Drain the liquid from the bean sprouts and mushrooms. Saute the mush- 
rooms in butter to a light brown; add the bean sprouts and cook 5 min. Beat 
the eggs until light; blend with the cream and seasonings for 1 min. Cook 
in melted butter until a creamy consistency, stirring constantly. Place a 
serving of bean sprouts and mushrooms on each plate, top with scrambled 
eggs. Serve hot. Serves 6. 


MISCELLANEOUS AND FOREIGN DISHES 275 


SCOTCH ROAST OF MUTTON 


Wash and dry leg of 14 leg of mutton. Rub the leg with seasoned flour, 
(salt, pepper and 1 tsp. dry mustard). Make slits at intervals with a sharp 
knife and insert slices of garlic in the slits. Sear the roast about 20 min. ina 
hot oven then reduce the heat to 350° F. and cook for about 2 hours. Remove 
the juices from the roast pan; skim off the fat. Return the skimmed broth 
to the pan and add | cup Sauterne or Rhine wine and 1 cup raisins. Baste the 
meat often in this until thoroughly done. 


CUBAN BEEF STEW 


3 chopped onions 4 tsp. red pepper 
1 Ib. chopped beef 1 tsp. salt 
2 tbsp. butter 1 cup boiled spaghetti 


1 No. 3 can tomatoes 


Put tomatoes in saucepan; add onions, salt and pepper. Mix well. Let 
stand 1 hour. Add spaghetti and meat. Bring to boil, reduce heat and sim- 
mer 3 min. Stir in melted butter. Serve hot. Serves 6. 


TIM-SHUN-YOK-KOW 


3 Ig. green peppers, seeded 1 cup canned chicken broth 

4 canned pineapple slices 14 cup juice from pineapple 

1 Ib. ground chuck 14 cup vinegar 

2 tsp. bottled soy sauce 2 tbsp. cornstarch 

Salt 1 tbsp. sugar 

1 tsp. seasoned salt 2 tsp. bottled soy sauce 

4 tsp. pepper Fluffy hot rice or canned chow- 
1 tbsp. flour mein noodles 


2 tbsp. butter or margarine 


One hour before serving: 


1. Wash, then cut each pepper into 6 pieces; cook in boiling water to cover, 
3 min. Drain, cut each pineapple slice in 6 pieces; drain. 

2. Combine chuck, 2 tsp. soy sauce, 34, tsp. salt, seasoned salt, pepper; blend 
well. Shape into 16 small balls; roll balls in flour. 

3. In hot butter in skillet over medium heat, brown balls on all sides; cover; 
and simmer 5 min. Remove to hot platter; keep warm. 

4. To butter in skillet, add 14 cup chicken broth, green peppers, pineapple 
pieces. Cover; simmer 8 min. Meanwhile, combine 24 cup broth, pine- 
apple juice, vinegar, cornstarch, sugar, 2 tsp. soy sauce, 14 tsp. salt; add 
to green pepper mixture; stir constantly till thickened and clear. 

5. Pour pepper mixture over meat balls. Serve hot, with fluffy rice or chow- 
mein noodles. Makes 4 servings. 


276 MISCELLANEOUS AND FOREIGN DISHES 


IRISH STEW 
114 Ibs. beef, chuck or boneless = 114 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce — 
shin cut in 2” pieces Garni of 114 bay leaves 
1 tbsp. salt 3 sprigs parsley, minced 
34, tsp. pepper 1 clove garlic, minced 
3 cups meat stock (made with 12 small potatoes, quartered 
4 beef bouillon cubes) 6 carrots, cut in thirds 
36 tsp. thyme 2 large onions, sliced 
3 tbsp. ketchup 1 cup celery, cut in 1” pieces 


Season meat with salt and pepper. Add meat stock and seasonings. Make 
garni using pieces of cheesecloth; secure with string at top. Pressure cook 
using 15 Ibs. pressure control for 15 min. Reduce pressure with cool water. 
Open cooker and add layer of potatoes, carrots, onions and celery. Replace 
cover and steam for 10 min. Pressure cook, using 15 Ibs. pressure control 
for 3 min. or until vegetables are tender. Reduce pressure with cool water. 
Serves 6. 


ENGLISH MUFFINS 


2 pkg. yeast 3 tsp. salt 

14 cup warm water 14 cup melted shortening 
1 cup milk 14 cup cool water 

2 tbsp. sugar 6 cups flour 


Dissolve the yeast in warm water. Scald the milk and add the sugar, salt 
and shortening. Cool with 14 cup of cool water. When lukewarm, add the 
yeast to this and mix in the flour. Knead it to make a nice smooth dough. 
Place in a greased bowl; cover and let rise to about double in size; about 1 
hour. Turn onto floured board and shape into 18 or 20 muffins, about 3/,” 
thick. Place them on a cookie sheet which has been sprinkled with corn- 
meal. Sprinkle tops lightly with corn meal and let rise about 1 hour. Bake 
about 9 min. on each side on an ungreased griddle which is moderately hot. 
If they brown too fast, reduce the heat so that the muffins will cook through. 
Break or tear the muffins open and serve with butter, jam or marmalade. 


SCOTCH PANCAKES 


1 egg | le tsp. salt 
14 cup powdered sugar 4 tsp. soda 
14 cup melted butter 1 cup flour 
2 tsp. baking powder 2, cup milk 


Combine the beaten egg, sugar and melted butter: add the sifted dry in- 
gredients and milk and beat thoroughly. Pour on oiled griddle by spoonfuls 
and cook about 3 min. or until browned; turn and cook other side. (Never 
turn but once). Remove to heated plate; sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice. 


MISCELLANEOUS AND FOREIGN DISHES 2hL 


CHINESE BEEF WITH MUSHROOMS 


1 clove garlic 14 cup beef broth 

3 tbsp. olive oil 3 tbsp. cornstarch 

Salt and pepper to taste 1 tbsp. soy sauce 

114 Ib. round steak, cut 14” thick 14 lb. fresh mushrooms, peeled 
3 tbsp. diced onions _ and sliced 


Place oil and garlic in heavy frying pan. Cook gently about 2 min. and 
remove garlic. Add the seasoned steak slices and onion, cooking over mod- 
erate flame until meat is tender and nicely browned. Add the beef broth and 
sliced mushrooms; cover pan tightly and cook gently about 10 min. Add soy 
sauce to cornstarch and enough water to make a thin paste. Mix well into 
broth, cooking over low flame and stirring constantly until broth thickens. 
Serve at once, piping hot over hot boiled rice. 


CRAB MEAT EGG PANCAKE 


1 cup fresh crab meat (or small 2 tbsp. minced scallions 
can) | 4 eggs, well beaten 
14 cup celery, chopped fine Salt and pepper 


Heat 3 tbsp. cooking oil in heavy frying pan. Mix the beaten eggs into the 
rest of ingredients and pour in the pan. Cook over low flame until the pan- 
cake is set. Then cut into quarters and turn each quarter carefully. Avoid 
over-cooking which will toughen the pancake. Serve at once. 


ENGLISH PORK PIE 


3 Ibs. lean pork shoulder 2 onions 
1 veal knuckle Salt and pepper 


Cut the fat and gristle from the pork and cut into 1” cubes. Place the 
trimmings and veal knuckle in a kettle with a little fat; add 1 onion chopped 
coarsely and salt and pepper to taste. Cover with water and simmer slowly 
for 3 hours. Meanwhile, line an earthenware casserole with pastry (reserve 
enough to make a top), fill 84, full with pork cubes. Place the other chopped 
onion, dash of salt and pepper and pinch of sage over the meat. Pour in 
water to make about 1” in the bottom. Put top on the pie with other pastry. 
Seal well around the edges. Cut a hole in the center for steam to escape and 
bake 114 to 2 hours in moderate oven. By now the broth should be cooked 
down to about 2 cups. Strain it; remove the fat and pour into hole in pork 
pie with a funnel. Cool and chill until broth has jellied. 


278 MISCELLANEOUS AND FOREIGN DISHES 


BRINJAL SMOORE 
2 3-lb. broiler-fryers, quartered 5 whole cardamoms, peeled 
1, cup butter or margarine 14 tsp. paprika 
Water Fat or salad oil 
1 6-oz. can tomato paste ) 1 114-Ib. eggplant, unpared 
2 cloves garlic, finely minced 3 tbsp. lemon juice 
2 tbsp. sugar 1 tbsp. salt 
10 whole cloves 2 tsp. turmeric 
1 tsp. salt 4 medium onions, peeled, quartered 
2 tbsp. vinegar 1 large green pepper, cut into 
14 tsp. tumeric eighths 
1 stick cinnamon 2 large tomatoes, sliced 
2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce — Slivered almonds 


About 2 hours before serving: 


le 


Start heating oven to 425° F. In 13” x 9” x 2” baking dish, arrange chick- 
en skin side up in single layer. Dot with butter. Bake uncovered 30 min. 


or until golden brown, occasionally brushing with drippings in baking 
dish. 


Reduce oven temperature to 350° F. In saucepan, mix 114, cups water, 
tomato paste, garlic, sugar, cloves, | tsp. salt, vinegar, 14 tsp. turmeric, 
cinnamon, Worcestershire, cardamoms and paprika; bring to a boil and 
simmer 5 min. Pour 1 cup of this sauce over chicken, coating all pieces; 
then place remaining sauce in skillet. Bake chicken 20 min., or tlil 
tender. 


Meanwhile, in deep saucepan, put enough fat or salad oil to come half- 
way up the side. Heat to 375° F. on deep fat frying thermometer. Now, 
cut eggplant in 3” x 14” strips; turn into large bowl; sprinkle with lemon 
juice; cover with water; let stand 5 min. Remove eggplant; drain well; 
sprinkle eggplant with | tbsp. salt mixed with 2 tsp. turmeric. 


In hot fat, fry eggplant a few strips at a time about 2 min. Drain well. 


Meanwhile, in tomato sauce in skillet, simmer onions and green pepper, 
covered, 10 min., or just until fork-tender. 


Arrange eggplant, onions, pepper and tomato sauce over chicken pieces in 
skillet. 


Lay tomato slices on chicken; sprinkle with almonds. Return to oven and 
bake uncovered, 15 min. longer or till heated through. 


Arrange on heated large platter with big bowl of fluffy rice, tossed with 
seedless raisins. Makes 8 hearty servings. 


MISCELLANEOUS AND FOREIGN DISHES 279 


CHINESE ALMOND CAKES 


Sift in large bowl: 214 cups all-purpose flour, 34, cup sugar, 14, tsp. salt, 
1 tsp. baking powder. Blend in 34, cup shortening. Beat together and add 
1 egg, 2 tbsp. water, 14 tsp. almond extract. 


Mix as you would pastry and when thoroughly blended form into balls 
about the size of a walnut. Place on cookie sheet and press with the heel of 
your hand to flatten. Press 1 whole blanched almond into the top of each 
cookie and brush with slightly beaten egg white. Bake at 350° F. Yields 
about 36. 


ALSATIAN MEAT 


1 large onion, chopped fine 

1 green pepper, cut in strips 
3 ribs celery, cut in 1” pieces 
14, Ib. mushrooms, sliced 

1 can tomato paste 


1 cup olive or salad oil 
34, cup hot water 

1 Ib. left-over roast meat 
1 pkg. large noodles 

14 cup grated cheese 


Heat oil in heavy frying pan and cook vegetables gently until clear and 
tender. Add the can of tomato paste with 34, cup of hot water. Cut Ib. of 
cooked beef, lamb or fresh pork into cubes and add to mixture. Cook a pkg. 
of large noodles and put a layer into greased casserole alternately with meat 
sauce. Sprinkle grated cheese over the noodles. Top with buttered crumbs 


and bake 20 min. in moderate oven. 


greens. 


Serve with French bread and salad 


RHAMKUCHEN (Cheese Cake) 


114 cups rolled Zwieback crumbs 
3 tbsp. butter or margarine 

2 tbsp. sugar 

1 Ib. cream cheese 

14 cup sugar 

1% tsp. vanilla 


1 tbsp. sugar 

Grated rind of 1 lemon 
1 tbsp. lemon juice 

2 eggs, separated 

1 cup thick sour cream 
1 tbsp. sugar 


~ Blend the rolled crumbs with melted butter and 2 tbsp. sugar. Press in the 
bottom of a 9 in. spring bottom pan. Place in a warm (300° F.) oven for 5 
minutes to set the crust. Warm the cheese to room temperature and break 
up well with a fork. Blend in the sugar and lemon juice, rind and vanilla. 
Drop in the egg yolks one at a time, beating well after each egg. Beat the 
egg whites stiff and fold in the mixture with a spatula. Pour over the crumb 
crust and bake at 300° F. for 45 minutes. Mix 1 tbsp. sugar and the vanilla 
into the sour cream. Spread lightly over the top of the cake, return to the 
oven and bake 10 min. more. Let the cake cool and remove the rim from the 
spring pan to serve. 


280 MISCELLANEOUS AND FOREIGN DISHES 


HOMARD A LA NEWBURGH 


1 Ib. freshly picked lobster meat 114 cups cream 
 4tbsp. butter 4 egg yolks 
14 cup sherry wine Salt and pepper 


Cut the lobster meat in small pieces and cook in the butter until thoroughly 
heated. Add to this the Sherry wine and cook, uncovered, until the Sherry 
has mostly disappeared; Dash with paprika. Now, heat 114 cups cream in 
the top of a double boiler (reserve the 14, cup of cream to blend with the 
beaten egg yolks). When the cream is hot, blend a little in the egg mixture. 
Add the egg mixture to the hot milk and stir constantly until smooth and 
velvety. Add the lobster. 


Prepared in Grandma’s chafing dish it is a real conversation piece! 


ZITRONEN BRADCHEU 


2 whole eggs and 2 yolks 1 cup citron, grated 
1 cup sugar Rind of 1 lemon, grated 
2 cups flour 


Mix ingredients in order given. Take a small amount and roll into a strip 
about 3 inches wide (use as little flour as possible); cut strips into pieces 2 
inches long and fold over. Decorate with 2 half cherries or nuts. Bake about 
15 minutes at 350° F. 


These cookies will be very hard until stored in a tight container with 2 or 3 
apples quartered for 2 or 3 weeks. 


BASIC FRENCH OMELETTE 


Select a cast iron or heavy aluminum pan with round bottom; oil it as you 
would your waffle iron. 


4 eggs Salt and pepper 
2 tbsp. water 1 tbsp. butter 


Beat the eggs with the water; add the salt and pepper to taste. Add the 
butter to the pan, preheated so that the butter sputters but does not scorch. 
Pour in the egg mixture and let it set around the edges. With a fork, pull 
the omelette away from the edges of the pan; rolling the pan so as to let the 
uncooked eggs seep down underneath. When all the eggs are set (just barely 
set, not dry), fold the omelette in the pan and turn out onto a hot platter and 
serve. 


_ The French are masters with an omelette and make a great variety of them. 
Some favorites—creamed chicken, fine herbs, fresh fruits—in fact try your 
own special filling. 


MISCELLANEOUS AND FOREIGN DISHES 281 


ESCALOPES de VEAL a Ila BORGEOISE 


6 veal cutlets Salt and pepper 

1 egg 114 cups rice, boiled fluffy 
1 cup dry bread crumbs, rolled fine Tomato sauce 

14 cup grated cheese 


Dip the veal pieces in beaten egg and then in crumbs to which the cheese 
has been added with the salt and pepper. Saute well in fat. Pour tomato 
sauce (condensed tomato soup) in pan with the cutlets and continue cooking 
until tender. Serve with fluffy rice. 


SCHWABISCHES FLEISCH 


6 thin slices of steak 1 tbsp. grated lemon peel 
Salt and pepper 2 tbsp. parsley, minced 
1 cup concentrated bouillon 1 tbsp. onion, chopped 


1 cup sour cream 


Brush the steaks with bacon drippings and season with salt and pepper. 
Broil quickly until browned on both sides, but still quite rare. Pour the drip- 
pings from the broiler into a stew pan. Add 1 tbsp. chopped onion. Work 
1 tbsp. of flour into small amount of the fat; blend in the bouillon and add to 
drippings. Add sour cream and other ingredients. Arrange the steaks in 
the sauce; cover and simmer until the steaks are tender. 


STUFFED ZUCCHINI 


6 medium sized Zucchini squash Salt and pepper 
6 slices day old bread 14 cup grated Italian cheese 
2 eggs 1 medium onion, chopped fine 


Wash the Zucchini well; remove the skin and blossom ends and parboil in 
salted water for 7 minutes. Split lengthwise and scoop out the pulp. Pour 
cold water over the broken up bread slices and squeeze dry. Chop the pulp 
of the squash and mix with the bread crumbs and all other ingredients. Driz- 
zle olive oil or melted butter over the top and sprinkle with grated cheese. 
Place on a greased baking dish or cookie sheet and bake at 360° F. for about 
14 hour or until squash is tender. 


282 MISCELLANEOUS AND FOREIGN DISHES 


PIZZA PIE 
Dough: 
1 pkg. yeast 114 tsp. salt 
2 tbsp. warm water 2 tbsp. shortening 
1 cup boiling water 3 cups flour 


Dissolve the yeast in the warm water; pour the boiling water over the short- 
ening; cool. Add the yeast and 1% of the flour to the shortening and beat 


until smooth. Divide the dough into two equal parts and pat in rounds 
about 12 inches across, making a thicker rim to hold the filling. Place on 
greased cookie sheet to rise about double in size. 


Filling: 


1 tbsp. olive oil 2 cups diced, peeled, tomatoes or 
14 cup grated Parmesan cheese drained whole canned tomatoes 
3/4, Ib. sharp Cheddar cheese 1 clove garlic, crushed 


Salt and pepper to taste 


After dough rises, brush top with olive oil and sprinkle with Parmesan 
cheese. Then make a layer of Cheddar using about half of it. Bits of Italian 
sausage or Anchovies may be dotted over this. Add salt, pepper, garlic and 
tomatoes and spread over cheese. Remaining cheese is slivered over this and 
sprinkled with crushed Oregano. Drip olive oil over the whole thing and bake 
in a hot. oven, 450° F. 25 to 30 minutes. 


BROCCOLI WITH MUSTARD SAUCE 
114 Ibs. broccoli 


Wash broccoli in salted water; remove the heads from the heavy stalks. 
Peel and split the stalks and cook all in boiling salted water until just tender. 
Drain and arrange on a heated dish—the stalks underneath, the heads on 
top. Pour mustard mayonnaise over and serve. 


Mustard Mayonnaise 


3 egg yolks 3 tbsp. tarragon vinegar 
_ 3 tsp. dry mustard 4 tbsp. salad oil 
3 tbsp. cream 


Beat the egg yolks well; add the mustard, cream and vinegar together in 
a bowl over hot water until they thicken. Dip in the oil, while the beating still 
continues, until the sauce is fluffy. Pour at once over the broccoli and serve. 


MISCELLANEOUS AND FOREIGN DISHES 283 


FOIE de VEAU (Calf’s Liver) 


Fry out two slices of bacon for each serving. Drain on paper toweling. 
Dredge serving portions of calf’s liver in well seasoned flour and saute quickly 
in the bacon fat. Cooked liver should be slightly pink inside. Remove the 
slices to a warm platter. Discard the bacon fat and cook | tsp. of minced 
onion in | tbsp. butter until tender. Add 14 cup red wine (or meat stock) 
and simmer for about 2 min., loosening the brown bits from the skillet as 
you stir. Pour the sauce over the liver. Arrange the bacon around the edges 
and garnish with parsley. 


TONNO—MARINER’S PIE 


4 tbsp. olive oil 1 large can tuna (Tonno) 
-. 1 clove garlic 1 small jar ripe olives 
1 No. 2 can whole tomtaoes Salt and pepper 


1 small can peas 


Heat the oil in a heavy skillet and cook the slivered garlic until golden 
brown. Remove the garlic and add the tomatoes to the oil; cooking over low 
heat for 12 hour to thicken. Add the peas and flaked tuna and slivered olives; 


heat thoroughly. Be careful not to break up the tuna. Serve over cooked 
noodles and top with Parmesan cheese. | 


MANZANAS EN DULCE 
_ (Honeyed Apples) 


14 cup chopped dried figs 1 cup honey 
1, cup blanched almonds, chopped 1 tsp. melted: butter 
14 cup water | 6 medium apples 


Start heating oven to 325° F. Combine figs and almonds in small bowl. 
In another small bowl, stir together water, honey, and butter. Twist stems 
out of apples. Starting at the blossom end, peel apples about a third of way 
down; also remove cores part way down. Fill apples with almond mixture; 
arrange jn 12” x 8” x 2” baking dish; pour on water and honey mixture. Bake, 
basting. often until tender but sponds about 114 hours. . Refrigerate until 
serving time. : , : 


284 MISCELLANEOUS AND FOREIGN DISHES 


PESCADO ESPANOL 
(Baked Fish, Spanish Style) 


6 2” slices sea bass (3 Ib.) 6 fillets of anchovy 

1% tsp. salt 6 thick slices peeled tomatoes 

36 tsp. pepper 3 tbsp. snipped chives 

4, tsp. nutmeg 1 cup thinly sliced fresh mushrooms 
4, tsp. red pepper 14 cup white wine 

1 tbsp. olive oil 14 cup melted butter or margarine 
1 large onion, thinly sliced 1 cup fresh bread crumbs 

114 tbsp. chopped pimento 

Early in day: 


1. Wipe fish with damp cloth; dry. Sprinkle with mixture of salt, pepper, 
red pepper, and nutmeg. 


2. Put olive oil in 12” x 8” x 2” baking dish; top with onion, then pimento. 


3. Arrange seasoned fish slices, side by side, on top of onion slices. Next, 
place one anchovy fillet on each fish slice. Cover each with a tomato 
slice and sprinkle with snipped chives. Next, scatter mushroom slices 
over all; then pour on wine. 


4. Now tightly cover dish with aluminum foil, and refrigerate. 


One hour before serving: 


1. Heat oven to 450° F. Place covered fish dish in oven and bake 25 to 30 
min. 

2. Meanwhile, combine melted butter and bread crumbs. Uncover dish and 
sprinkle top of fish with buttered bread crumbs. 

3. Bake, uncovered, until well browned—5 to 10 min. 


4. Serve fish piping hot, with crusty bread sticks or fluffy rice seasoned with 
onion and paprika. Makes 6 servings. 


LA SAGNA WITH TOMATO AND MEAT SAUCE 


Tomato Sauce: 


1 medium onion, diced 1 No. 2 can tomatoes 
2 cloves garlic, slivered 1 can tomato paste 
4 slices salt pork, 34,” thick 1 Ib. beef, pork, or lamb 


Salt and black pepper to taste 


Pour the can of tomatoes in a saucepan and let simmer slowly. Meanwhile, 
fry the salt pork until brown and remove from the pan. In the remaining fat, 
brown the other meat which has been cut in cubes. Add to the tomato sauce. 


MISCELLANEOUS AND FOREIGN DISHES 285 


In the same fat, brown the onion and garlic (omit the garlic if not desired); 
add the tomato paste to the onion and simmer about 10 min. Then add to 
the tomato sauce and simmer over very low heat about 2 hours. 


Cheese Filling: 


114 Ibs. Italian cheese 1 cup Romano cheese, grated 
Salt and black pepper to taste 6 eggs 


Mix together the Italian cheese, eggs, salt and pepper and 34, cup of Ro- 
mano grated. Set this aside. Ina large kettle, bring 5 qts. of water, salted, 
to a brisk boil and drop in 1 Ib. package of La Sagna macaroni, | strip at the 
time, and cook until tender, about 25 minutes. Drain and pour cold water 
over it. Using a casserole or baking dish, pour in tomato sauce to cover 
bottom, then a layer of La Sagna and a layer of the cheese filling. Sprinkle 
with Italian cheese and more tomato sauce. Repeat this until all the La Sagna 
and cheese filling is used up. Bake 14 hour at 375° F. 


The meat pieces which were in the tomato sauce may be passed as a sep- 
arate dish. 


286 





WINES—THEIR PROPER USAGES 
GENERAL RULES: 


Wines are chosen in relation to each other as well as to food. 

A dry wine never follows a sweet wine. 

A light wine never follows a full wine. 

For a luncheon or dinner, where only one wine is desired, a medium type: 


Claret, Chianti, Sherry or Rhine Wine is used. 


Hors D’oeuvres....Light dry wine, generally ““white”’; Light Sauterne, Dry Ca- 
tawba, Alsatian, Rhine Wine or White Burgundy. 


Oysters ...... rien Bs Light dry wine, always ‘’white’’; Chablis or Dry Champagne. 


SOUP errr eee Light dry wine, generally ‘white’; Sherry, Graves, Beaujo- 
lais, other White Burgundies. 


Fishes seen Light dry wine, always ‘‘white’’; Hock, Moselle, Alsatian, 
Dry Champagne, White Burgundies. 

Neath seca Medium wine, generally ‘‘red’’; Claret, Burgundy, Chianti. 

POULEV eececceees Medium wine, ‘‘red or white’; Medium Champagne, Claret 


or Burgundies. 


SOMO ee ee. Medium wine; Claret or Burgundy. 

SOLUS see No wine. 

Cheese ................ Medium wine, generally “‘red’’; Claret, Burgundy, Port. 

Dessert ee Heavy sweet wine; Port, Heavy Sauterne, Maderia, Cham- 
pagne. 


Coffee....... alae a Brandy or Liquers. 


287 


CALORIE COUNTER 


MEAT | 
Co) Su GSl Se a el ea FAV GT CLV Oiteet a ee 208 fot een, Tee 400 
PemnromenOpe ek TOR Lise iC Kee eee een Bete a 125 
“LRG. alae BEOtLIDSE@ Lis Dest Vere wena 100 
Wools IMU) 1. eno Ve CZROZ SS) meme ge ee eres ate 200 
Meat Balls (2), spaghetti__...________. PED Manito SES eee i 370 
manoecued beef AVGLr mMpeLvingiacs fale yet 300 
PomeecucuemnmD =. ies Aver. Serving, 2 ee 350 
Barbecued Spareribs ____......._..---___- GRA VOIR IDS eee a 250 
Oo) Lg tlle ine aa ren GlO rs sec auld oh, Pe 200 
Beef Brains (Fried) _.........--__- HO7zsmest i Aa in oe 250 
Wnipped) beei S80 70 ween. 6 pale) dof os 175 
Chipped Beef (Creamed) _........... S° O75 cn ALTO ti ere Harty. 225 
Moppecdm beer A OZS be Oo PE ar 250 
Percueviignone ‘AV Gia SCLV ING acts ocr eee 250 
DBeelenamburger DiO7d nclccit ae he Woe 200 
S1SG JOS | ad a Aver Serving incu. 4 lied yale 160 
Porterhouse Steak... ANetm SOLVING ben eae LY, shoei 400 
Heee OAs eee ARV Erte SOLVIT Die cece neem Lene 200 
S\SS SUE eee See ae AV ere OCLVill Oo a see eee ee 200 
IPC SUG 2) 1 Gu psa eat eo sn a Ses 250 
Beef Sweetbreads _..... TTP OLVAN Cages ee ee) ee 125 
BOTA] Creme ee Pu ANNOY SLL COS set at gs ee, 100 
OOO ieee niiee ee NE de DOTS Maret eee a Raine) ere 125 
Broiled Lambchops __........ fieGlinwlhick) 22s. - erat! t tects 250 
Broued Porkchops — | MMC Acct eee ee ee 225 
RAO NODS ieee oe TUPIMEE Cede et eed cnc thn) a 150 
bev ealeChops. (Fried)... IM OC) pee tet ee 250 
AR UU AIT COT nn Le AVN. sete ASI er | ere 125 
PS PL ATN Dibra be ee es A Vera OCLVIN Gan eee eee Oe 200 
POULTRY 
Broiled Chicken __.....-------- PG eS rial lta se ee bees ee ae 100 
Boledechicken) oy ees. tu USES 1A] eee tele a SO se 100 
econ mC ACCIAtOTG:. 2a ee WA Ver. MPOYbION poo a ee 550 
eC hone ata = oo se ert ee NETS) toate ne eee oe 45 
ternickenerley. 2.) oe eee Avera Serving.- 229.3. eee 350 
Mm CKenuGiHyied,) a kas te = We Ou M Odie. 8 oe) i ae 325 
Barbecued.Chicken) 2 sees IAVera Mervin. fae eee 200 
inaKked.Ghicken.. 2 AVerDeServing a= eee Se ee 200 
RUC Vast t ce a ree Ay ae (AVer aoeChvil Gites eee 175 
Canned Turkey (Boned)... MODS eae tes ee 300 


ISLOLUedeoOGURUss a. ee ee EPA VeVi iat tose nee, be ent oe, Ae 150 


288 


een RSS SS SS SS a 


Roast, Duck? eee FAV ETURSenVING 22 ee ee 300 
Roast Duck (Dressing) _........- PA VEY SCL Ville ee ee 375 
RGAStiGOOSG 7) te- en ee OA VET SCTVING at errs ee ee 175 
Baked<@apon 2a ee ee TWAV GY sey eh ee ee 225 


FISH & SEAFOOD 


Blue Fish (Baked) _....-_____ Aver, (Servingigeace se 2s ee 200 
Blueshish: (Fried). ea ae ‘Aver. Serving . ae Baas 225 
@Odminishi 3 Sree Aver. Serving”... Meee T Reieae 100 
SV WOLGRUAS aes Oo a ee Aver. oervilg  etiveene band 150 
(FOLuellLe Wish fu eee eee Avera Servint) en gee 150 
White Fish (Broiled) AveruServing ‘hawt =). ne & 125 
White Mish. (Fried). 8 Aver, Serving... 2 2 1 Mat Bae 225 
Tuna Fish (Canned in Oil) —_---- LEVGUD ose fe soba’ Boke igen 250 
Monavtish (Cooked)is 2222 = BAS CUD yas SN oO iol Bee ae 100 
PIGUNG er so oat eee Aver. Derving 2. ae te 150 
PATINA PLLA euaeni mien cole a Aver. Servint 220 iereton VTS 125 
Fraddock.( Groiled)\-: eae MAsviere OOLrVing eo Nie! ant ee 180 
TLaAcgdocK) (Eried)i.4:. 2 eereteeee Amer’ Serville ice ow de ee 250 
Halibutiics Jee). 2e ie ei agee 8 AVOl as SOLVING | 202 ae ee 200 
Baked Hake. =. owe Aver Mervin’, .. ee 125 
POET OLE Ol Ga ete ee a ee AVer. Serving 2 2 2 ee 125 
SACL Meee ee Ohi Ne erate AV6r, Serving. ........zsssudeesee eS 125 
PRIM Dic a ae ee ee LOPA VEY. (tie cae ee ee 100 
SLY Pas OCK LA] uae eee es ees Ga Med USiz6 ee ee 15 
Steamed: Clams 2 eevee La Med. Size 2 eee ene 100 
ried aclamsa Pe eae 6VMed.- Size: 2. 2. nee ee oe 200 
Oyster Cocktail o 2) ee GuMed. Size’ eee 15 
Oxsterstews coe ee PWCUD ee te ha oe 200 
Oysters (Blue Point) ke, AMES Ls aan meses | ES || 100 
Grab Meat. oe err Uy AGLI Ulgit! seceh neler! PP Be Ny 65 
BOLT Hel Crab ee ee ee ee Med S120 7.66 ie reas) 7 ny ee 100 
TSODSTOT I eee ererh fo Oe eek CMe Fel AV GT Oe ef Ce 28 20 Ts a 100 
Lobster Newberg —__........---------__- FAVED DCLV IND tte See 350 
CEREALS 

Whineatics ya cccy 2) ae a Se Oz ee eee, Na eee 100 
Al Branjeci ete © CUD ee eae). aan 100 
iBran-Wlakes i024. tend Vac ie MeGupe 2S phate EL an 100 
@orn. Klakes \ 2.2... eres EBD ie es sea Ys Rene 100 
ream Of .W heat 22 segrraee BAW RUD oo we pony ae 100 
Rice. Flakes) 00) oe) pent RO cee ee ee ee 2a 8! 120 
TAPILed, ; HACC 228 nie eee Nenad eel ees OUD A haat bre ell - Bae 55 





nL = re WCU pieced senha. SPIRITS. APD SS SO 75 
8) 0 DGB GU DP eecteeisne hee aed ieee STITT OS 50 
Bem eeeyy heat «cc Bite oll] sete eetes ieee ogee Sunwin ston HY 50 
ee bt (OULD seiseretenire tn sBiaan | Was) Fieh 75 
FRUIT 
eee a LESS S124] | reer ten ce rtd teen se AE 75 
‘Apple Sauce (Canned). Ste (U1 TD et alentirote snicker 7s on cee 50 
a DEN OG er eeteinbe tnt or, Bere ee 100 
a ens VL UG hd ee ee eines cern)» A 100 
‘Blueberries RECS) eet cof ac st HAS ae es ee eh oe oe 100 
“einenperries (Wresh) —._....__. nl CON SF ie st Ue ee ne ies in Tom Wee 2 100 
ee RVLGC eee eters ers oe oe 75 
2 i? Eo CONTE) | eee ee Ps Se ae 50 
ie MelGaY 0 Ceeen et ees ene ee se es 35 
| ATEN) C0 ieee inca oe oy ee, 50 
ees LLL VCC ee eat kg oe ee tee aks ae 75 
7 A NCT Gare nwalag 02 Re te Seay at cee 30 
Pe SYA MA eer eg ead Se 425 
rics ees 215) PSTEAELN | POSS ReMi ae a La aan TL PRG Pes 75 
Pineapple (Canned) _........ a i COMOROS on re cn ih er et ae 75 
— ee 1b {OPEV OP Menage ane anaes en <tr tie 50 
“VEGETABLES 
Pes ao aS LALKS eee erate eek. 20 dar eke” ge 25 
Beeeoo shoots Seal Dipak el, ee RA 40 
Boy bean Sprouts... TOM ieee ce reen eet SI Ge 50 
Mmeeoeans TEAG U D tetera ce oe a Oni eee 200 
Baked Beans (Canned)... Sd OI eS ee Pn a ae 150 
Be DCANS ab O17) semen eee ele ae eae” 225 
ima Beans (Canned)_......--_-- Deas Ces UL YO tacos re oC HRI Bs 75 
} LS 2. qo ne DO OUD. othe i ee ene g  e Laed 35 
Meuese| Sprouts... IeGups (CKd.) anak ee a ee 60 
Cabbage (Boiled) Vit CI Pree tea cathe Sa 0 ee Se ee a 40 
ited PO Cm AW.) pe ee Oy ap, cot ti ete = te od pe ee 20 
BC OTN TACup «UDrained ). = se 42 vee aes 140 
Seededospinach RY ONT yay: Gare Oral tae! nanan <r tys, 50 
Bauiiower Tae Up pee eee ete neg eee 30 
Bo rotsu(Raw) 2 ABM Cl Moraine, Ue Sass (teeter i ee 25 
Marisa oe Lae (CU Dg ees tie i eke ee 40 
Berm Niblets) 2 LA OT eee eee 70 
for OTR OD bee erent es UY. IVA Vern Wa tien tc TOUS ea) 100 
Dandelion Greens tig (CU Tape ets est eps oes rt oa ie. 50 
ON EDEN) (025 aS ee UD Hl Cart neetitee nates. sto ch wai ine AUR 10 
[tte Reese te lee WIN TIC WAVE CSC ieheeescsishemn cars ane io, SOI 10 


Ww 


290 a. 
Honeydew Melon ___......-----— WBA VEY ee se eee 6st 
WuUShrOOMISt 2 re ee BG CUD MAL ewe oS 8 ee oe 15 
OU aE Wy i ttl otc upnnitl Mechnaracedl died Menara PAR COT ie es 2s pet 50 
BNiONs CRA W)) ee ee Bid OW ade ie ot os ee Sar 50 
DITCH Quem tare ees nn eee RUUD eens get ee ee 25 
SCS imme ene EGU Dense oe ath ee Ee 35 
STOCOLAS game ah strech, ere ee ee Des OUD peace eee tee 150 
SUGTIALO Meee Barer ern cet ere caraeed 1a Cs ip ee Ae noah ora oben lo. 25 
WYALEDCTOSS Fes oi en eee Terai po tee Sr eo 10 
CHEESE 

ESTE ICA TW mies Maly he ae einer 1S lice wee ee 100 
ASH SEDL 1. loadin. Aa Manian RSE Seth Sa iG A OZS te el ne 150 
Cheese Blintzes: 42 hee LA Verret) ch Sie oan eee eee 175 
Gamem bert mae conse eS TUS 8 O76 77 ane ne er eee 125 
Cheddars sc ar ee eee TUG ROZSE ee ee ey ee oe 15 
Wotta yer 6 vies 1 or 1 Siw O11) 0a ee NR ieee alee Men | 20 
CTA ten sete te ees ek eee ioe DSpasee i eee 50° 
TCAYINIGrS ere rt Sar ee YOV (GUp pen melee te pee Cee 20 
WegervkTan7 see keer ee aes Loe OZS sane et we ee eee 12 
TAMOUr Ver eee Sr eee LU SeOZS eee eo AN ee 150 
MUENISTET tig i oo tee See or ae LESSOZS eter er ens ee ee 15G 
ROquelort seks oat eS en ae Lom OZ Secs i te 0 eee 15 
SSA LS Sei elllage MOLAR ice de gee ee Ly: Ozs. 2 eee 150 
POTATOES [ 
JEL CatL 2. 24 oem Oa mue Maman amelie aie leds moll.) LV ed incre se ve oe) A Ce 125 
EVOLLEC Meee seer se ete ones niin ee ele ed. nine, "ores eee ee 12% 
Browne mee en eo ee ee T. Meds tren a i St a eee 15 
Pasiecdeorown wee eee LOM Cdr to <n ee 225 
ef CLIENT Te wie: to gales (9! ont lee nde Peed cog eh ee ea ee 225° 
Lyonnaise ___.______. eee ee VLCC een Oe 2a 
Mashed (1 tsp. Butter) Be estaiehde | btn SIME CC Sete See eee 180° 
Terence Pied wrk es ee eet GPA Ver see ss eee rarer eae 100. 
POLaLO toa lade ore eermert ne cere Yo Moupt ees WEL Se eed inf 
Sweet (Candied) — ONO Z8 Rec or een teen ca eee 306 
sweet (Canned) 2.2 ee LEC eee tn ee 235 
SOUP 

Tle Veet reo a es ee eC fs nS 125 
Barley (Creamed) —...0 1Cup ek fs eee eee 20) 
BOCA sect eee ieee prety vec? fee 5 ee 22 
Beef Broth _ ee oe eee UE GUD oe ee 35 
Gabhave 46. cor we eee evaAver, Serving ss Wee at 


{ 
4 
lal 
I+ 


| 291 


[phicken ce ca I eS a (GAT eI 100 
Memicken) (Creamed) TC Deter ee oot OND Ae ty 200 
Sree ene DIDO 2. ila Lethe ei tamee EMas Iee ee pilipannan 3 Fe babes. bab 125 
[Jhicken een ale WW Gup pana Mk tI! vrdie! 125 
eer ee I Cup Pelt Aerts alo yeiy J. helt ee 125 
ee ree ile (el th AN 20 Mees oan AONUMA SR) Ue EH 100 
eee Sle COTA A ee RE Cn ML RCO os Be 100 
SeererOgeee AMER Dao ee Ok ee 60 
(oe AO Occup ai 300 
eee nee AL ACAD V4) ual a reMeumem ire} Ok URNS AN A ROR. 9 100 
Hout on, ero BRAG U Dike ucitela uae SPINS SANE egaites 175 
Memon perpot .-.. POMtiONG a ee A er eee 450 
yrotato ee i, Lic TEN dean a Rae ARUN ever: 28 Wan AT 175 
i} rato (Creamed) HR laiienie ced ara as a ee FE 275 
SREAD 
a al Ugh § (0: reset leech antny eichacataee tee een anne he 75 
Mrneeereyheat 2: $i, AS) bic) Sadeet aleiibeaieeenenveda ened iene da 55 
Ree er he PAIN ee QUaAL Ct iene enn oe! IE 200 
BRteReOeN toe TRS ices ete ten ore eine DOA 90 
0 Ze ie Sua estar. eerie nts MOA, 175 
a rl TRL Cotsen Shenae ANE I oa 2k D 75 
|talian 2. IE Slice gem we iti sacmorsnetes troy SOURS 55 
So | er 1a Cement ore ieee Heo 
vine 5s aes Ce ae meee cars ata, Shona) Le RL: 40 
}taisin ot A ee Lines LiCe pe eerer te ee, re Ade POP) TROT 2 75 
Ry USS IA) SN ed ash asc ea, 65 
Meena ee Slice oe 50 
ty-Krisp eee i OR ee re a, tae amneas RN Oh sn Gl laety 50 
miueberry Muffins Lae the eT BOR NS RR a 150 
memoerianins aD Se (RIO Nar cel, Soli, I et a ee eS 100 
| See WETITEIN Sen ee a A CR eRe ao eRe ears eer te amg yO RRR teh hy 110 
Semeeeiuiins Z Rip ROOT lac Meats hI Die RTE CR 100 
Peeeneviiins LAN eee oe enh tle eee eames Vet une 150 
Wwe & PIE 
eC aK Gre ee AVere Serving 8 eee ee 250 
[ince EUG GAkewe © Sige: Me of PA Wa verge =, 6 Peinekinnaie cecelan Weanoecalre Wane kak ine an 100 
Mepiesmauce Cakel: so Vet @a ker sca etal See styiel cali da ea 420 
Mneese Cake 2 dwA vers Slices csety os Wee ea ts 350 
peo (a K Ceres ein ss see Pais) AVEL® SOLVING ene as Eee 250 
Baten: Cake evr “onsen > ranr pe TePieces(2ix4) cae ee ee 100 
Devil’s Food Cake... AVeroS iceman: ee och rly wae 275 
haa (cake peiee ne ee Soeerons ee tele PANSY A OY A Wisin & ea icAMoR NU etna ene ke ca in La 250 


Wi 





292 | 
Marble. Cakes]. 2. oe eae Aver: Slice 2s...) /o) 6 Saaeeee 1 : 
IBOUNGsCAKG = Gels wrt © 2 eee Aver. Slice... = fe seat Ny sree 125, 
SPONGE Caker et metal ily a cae Aver. Slice 2). Soi 1 
Strawberry Short Cake... Aver. Serving..." aU ese ee 3 
Pineapple Upside Down___.._..........- Miver Piece... PH 
ESD Dles Pile ve See eine eee sy eee eee Aver. Piece...) 7 ee 275 
INDUICOUSL cums say sine ee ae Aver. Piece: 2 ae 24 | 
IBluchberrve lies fy: = he ween Aver: Piece =~) * 2) |) ae 34! 
Wherrveicw ee ene aay eee Aver, .Plecew = 3... ee 350 
Coconut Custard Pie. ae Aver, Piece =). ee 4 
Lemon Meringue Pie________________. Aver: Piece! 20. 3 ee af 
Nesselrode- Pies 205 ae ‘Aver; Piece.) ee eae eee 375 
BeaChmriGw ect: 220 Pino) 7 eee Aver, Piece 20 ee ee 37> 
Reach Gream Pie | oe ee Aver..Piece)... Pine ee af 
EGGS 2 
SOLE Men cased 2) 05e Wesyn see reer eS TRA VGN: 2 ae ee 1 
ERT OC Pen Rts ae rete Con RN GN oh TwAVery 2. 2 os 2 ee ee 100 
TOR CIEG par ete es ihe nt. ho Wey Aan amen IWAVer. 7 ee ee 
CLAM DIC Sener: teenie ee nae as le ANG ois oe rl 
Deviled teats 2 Socks: Sen Bo eae Ze AVeDr, jee i 3 ee 225 
POLK eee OOmy OUNG == so a mae Avery DOrtion.. =) se ATA 
TS GN OF ee eet Sa eee gs oe No ee leGup) = ime af 





f | ff 


293 


HOUSEHOLD AIDS 


Red ants can be kept out of the pantry if a small quantity of green sage 
is placed on the shelves. 


Household ammonia dabbed on insect bites will kill the sting or bite, 
almost immediately. 


Always keep a bottle of vanilla extract handy in the kitchen, if put on 
a burn immediately it will not blister. 


Strong tea put on sunburn will take the fire out instantly. Unbelievable, 
but true! 


For nose bleed—Pack the nostrils with cotton dipped in lemon juice, 
leave for sometime for the blood to clot. A wonderful doctor’s treatment. 


For poison oak—Swab with cotton dipped in Hypo (same as used in de- 
veloping pictures.) Sure cure. May have to put on several times, but a 
sure cure. 


To stop hiccoughs. Eat damson preserves. First two teaspoonfuls—if 
not stopped repeat in a few minutes. Only in rare cases is the third dose 
needed. Eat without bread. 


Chiggers—Kerosene oil and table salt usually kills the chiggers after 
the first application. Two tablespoons kerosene, 1 tablespoon salt. Also 


household ammonia applied will do the trick. 
To brighten tarnished silverware, let soak for one hour in water left 
after boiling white potatoes. . It will come out bright as new! 


A piece of bread crust inserted between the teeth when peeling an onion 
will stop the tears. 

To clean silks from corn, brush with a hand scrub brush. Quick and 
easy! 


When putting a nail in a plastered wall, if it will not hold, fill the hole 
with fine steel wool. The nail will hold perfectly. 


To remove discoloration from aluminum utensils, boil in a solution of 
water with a teaspoon of cream of tartar to 1 quart of water for twenty 
minutes. 


When boiling eggs, add a pinch of salt to the water to prevent cracking. 


To remove nut meats whole, pour boiling water over the nuts and let 
stand all night before cracking. 


To prevent grease from popping from the frying pan, sift about 14, tea- 
spoon of flour in it. 


294 





Make a solution of 1 tablespoon of salt to 14 gallon of water and drop 
peaches or pears in it after they have been peeled to prevent them from 
turning dark until cooked. 


Soak figs in a solution of 1 tablespoon of soda in 2 quarts of water for 30 
minutes, remove stems, then make preserves or jam. 


Add one 1 oz. package of cream cheese to your pastry mix when making 
apple pie. It makes it flaky and also gives it a delightful flavor. 


Add 1 teaspoon of lemon juice to each quart of water when cooking rice, 
the grains will stay separate. 


When making cherry pie from canned cherries, put half of the juice in 
a saucepan and cook with 34 cup of sugar and 1 tablespoon of minute tapi- 
oca. Makes a wonderful thickening for the pie. Add a few drops of red 
coloring, drop in the cherries for a few minutes and bake in the pastry. 


Save all juices from canned fruit when making salads. Delicious in 
making gelatin desserts or making sauces for puddings. 


TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 


(Atvfewrorainss oo. 2thig wiles Mao pitted Toate ihe: less than 14 teaspoon 
Tita DIES OO I pumer erent See crate een Ee ree Dee 3 teaspoons 

4 tablespoons 20 os et ae gOD ESS DAG 14 cup 

LAY 6 HON ANS a eal Meee ak Uni an Blade Dole a addin ge 1 gill 

5i) tablespoons 4a ee ILA I he Vy cup 

Sita plespannisies cere marie 2 Ie aca a aE eee OO 1% cup 

1 OSTAD ICS DOOUS gave sata eee tt Reece tees 1 cup 

Me SOG ei ol AL Bk he MON eae in leat D0 | eas coe meet DA 1 pint 

Zell i Bee em Sele gd ea ng ee ty ee gf 1 pint or 1 pound 

2) Pints ee ee ee ee ail quartor-2ipounds 

Ay QU TS spk MES AI en oe cena ie eh eae th pia 1 gallon or 8 pounds 

SV QUAL Sth sae ee eee ee ee ee RA Te 1 peck 

EY Red ear eee Seek Rested Bisnlera abate nia mebae lan Hie? Be Oh nace, 1 bushel 

TOCOUNCES (reo we tre Sere a eee ee Gees Sem! BA ee 1 pound 

Pe TUIG OUNCES RIV PGS Se TG eS Oe 2 tablespoons 

LOS Ud OUN CCS Apt fee eee ee eee 1 pint (2 cups) 

Pe CD? DULEL ee irae Seana on ee POO A Pn 4 pound 

224 tbsp. cocoa and 14 tbsp. butter... (equivalent to 1 ounce 


of chocolate) 


295 





VITAMINS—MENU PLANNING 


If the homemaker is vitally interested in serving the proper meals to 
her family, she must fully realize that the bodies of her family are composed 
of many substances, combined in such a manner as to form blood, bones, 
skin, hair and parts of the human machine. 


Her task as the menu planner of the home is to restore the substances 
which have been lost by exertion, growing, elimination, respiration and 
other ways. If she does her task well, she will be recompensed by strong 
bodies, rosy cheeks, strong teeth, vigor and vitality. 


All foods taken into the body do either one of three things: 
1. It goes into the building of new bone and tissue. 
2. It supplies energy and the substances for gland secretions. 


3. It merely passes through the digestive and elimination organs with- 
out effect or in a manner which assists or disturbs the proper func- 
tioning of those organs. 


The foods which supply energy are fats and carbohydrates, the latter 
term including starch and sugar. The chief sources of fat are butter, cream, 
fat meat, bacon, lard, nuts, egg yolk, olive and other oils. The most common 
sources of carbohydrate foods aore the various sugars, candies, molasses, 
desserts, honey, fruits, potatoes, rice, wheat. 


The foods which list the proper regulation of the digestive and elimina- 
tion organs are roughage and mineral foods. Several sources of mineral 
foods are asparagus, string beans, cabbage, cauliflower, celery, onions, 
spinach, tomatoes, turnips, lettuce. 


Proteins necessary for the maintenance of life, for growth, and for the 
replacement of worn-out tissues are obtained particularly from meats, eggs, 
milk, cheese, fish, poultry, nuts, cereals and vegetables such as peas and 
beans. i 


For the menu planner of the average home, where none of the members 
require any special dietary treatment prescribed by a good physician, the 
one important rule to remember is: 


Serve one food from each of the three classifications at least once every 
day to every member of the family and, if possible, at every meal. 


296 





A WEEK’S MENU FOR A MODERATE COST 


MONDAY 


Breakfast 

Sliced bananas 
Ready-to-eat cereal 
Muffins and jam 
Milk 

Coffee 


Lunch or Supper 
Split-pea soup 
Buttered toast 

Apple and pimiento salad on lettuce 
Milk 

Hot Tea 

Dinner 

Meat scallop 

Baked sweet potatoes 
Coleslaw 

Bread and butter 
Prune pie 

Milk 


TUESDAY 


Breakfast 

Cereal 

Apples fried in bacon drippings 
Whole-wheat toast 

Milk 

Coffee 


Lunch or Supper 


Bacon 

Poached eggs 

Fried sweet potatoes 
Bread and butter 
Sliced oranges 

Milk 


Dinner 


Braised beef liver 
Creamed potatoes or hominy 
Buttered spiced carrots 


Hard rolls 

Butter 

Creamy tapioca pudding 
Milk 

Coffee 


WEDNESDAY 


Breakfast 

Hot cereal with raisins 
Soft-cooked eggs 

Toast 

Milk 

Coffee 


Lunch or Supper 

Potato salad 

Whole-wheat bread and butter 

Left-over creamy tapioca pudding 
with canned or stewed fruit 

Milk 

Dinner 

Roast stuffed spareribs 

Scrambled eggs 

Baked yellow squash 

Whole-wheat muffins 


Butter and marmalade 
Milk 


THURSDAY 


Breakfast 

Oranges 

Hot cereal 

Buckwheat cakes—maple syrup 
Milk 

Coffee 


Lunch or Supper 


Corned-beef hash or 
kidney stew 

Relish 

Rye bread and butter 
Cocoa 


Dinner 
Macaroni and cheese 


Baked onions in tomato sauce 


Bread and butter 
Spiced apples 
Milk 

Coffee or tea 


FRIDAY 


Breakfast 


Tomato juice 
scrambled eggs 
Raisin toast 
Milk 

Coffee 


Lunch or Supper 


Corn chowder 
Toasted rolls 
Oatmeal cookies 
Milk 

Coffee 


Dinner 


Baked creamed oysters or 
broiled fish 

Broccoli 

Potatoes, any style 
Cheese biscuits 
Lemon-gelatin pudding 
Milk 

Coffee or tea 


SATURDAY 


Breakfast 


Stewed prunes 

Browned mush and jelly 
Toast, if desired 

Milk | 

Coffee 


297 


Lunch or Supper 
Stewed tomatoes 
Fried potatoes 
Toast 

Jam or jelly 
Cocoa 


Dinner 


Boston baked beans and brown 
bread 

Vegetable slaw 

Citrus-fruit cup 

Milk 

Coffee 


SUNDAY 


Breakfast 

Berries, melon, or other fruit in 
season 

Cereal—Crisp bacon 

Cinnamon rolls 

Milk 

Coffee 


Lunch 


Stewed chicken with rice 
Green beans 

Hot biscuits 

Ice cream with fruit sauce 
Milk 

Coffee 


Dinner 

Tomato and cottage cheese salad 
Currant jelly 

Whole-wheat toast 

Cocoa 


298 





GUEST DINNER I 


Mock Lobster bisque 
Crackers 

Baked ham 
Spinach timbales 
Boiled potatoes 
Sauteed mushrooms 
Hard rolls 
Jelly—Pickles 
Mixed green salad 
Cherry tarts 

Coffee 


GUEST DINNER II 


Fruit cup with crushed candy mints 
Stuffed pork chops 

Baked corn 

Roast sweet potatoes 

Endive salad 

Fresh dressing 

Gingerbread with whipped cream 
Coffee 


GUEST LUNCHEON I 


Cream of mushroom soup 
Sweetbreads bechamel 

Stuffed mashed potatoes 
Asparagus with hollandaise sauce 
Lettuce and cucumber salad 
French dressing or mayonnaise 
Parker House rolls 

Mock nesselrode pudding with 


whipped cream and maraschino — 


cherries 
Salted almonds 
Coffee 


GUEST LUNCHEON II 


Fruit cocktail 
Chicken pie 
Julienne potatoes 
Scotch scones 
Currant jelly 
Romaine salad 


Meringue cake 
Coffee 

Salted nuts 
Mints 

Cookies 


BRIDGE LUNCHEON I 


Tomato juice cocktail 

Chicken a la King in patty shells 
New potatoes in parsley 

Cheese sauce 

Tomato aspic salad 

Ritz crackers 

Lemon tarts 

Coffee 


BRIDGE LUNCHEON (Summer) 


Melon ball cocktails 
Ham biscuit 

Deviled eggs 
Watermelon rind pickle 
Orange blossom salad 
Chesee straws 
Raspberry Parfait or 
Peach Ice Cream pie 


BUFFET LUNCHEON I 


Chilled pineapple juice 
Shrimp and eggs 
Toast 

Black currant jam 
Devil’s food layer cake 
Coffee 


BUFFET LUNCHEON II 


Tomato cups 

Relishes—Cottage Cheese 

Baked ham with horseradish sauce 
Stuffed mashed Steane = 

Corn pudding 

Lima bean salad 

Assorted breads and crackers 
Assorted cookies 

Coffee or tea 


299 





SUPPER PARTIES I 


Chicken a la king 
Jellied tomato salad 
Assorted sandwiches 
Fruit cake 

Coffee 


SUPPER PARTIES II 


Salmon salad 
Watercress sandwiches 
Cranberry ice 

Cookies 

Coffee 


SUPPER PARTIES III 


Chow mein 

Fried noodles 

Banana omelet 

Rice croquettes 

Kumquat or apricot preserves 
Tea 


EASTER DINNER 


Grape and orange sections in Rum 
sauce 

Celery—Carrots 

Roast Leg of Lamb—Mint eJlly 

Asparagus 

New potatoes in parsley sauce 

Lettuce and tomato salad 

Parker House rolls or French bread 

Strawberry shortcake—whipped 
cream 

Coffee or tea 


MOTHER’S DAY DINNER 


Fruit Cocktail 

Barbecued chicken 

Potato boats with cheese 

Cauliflower with parsley sauce 

Asparagus-tomato salad—French 
dressing 


Parker House rolls 
Caramel Ice Cream—Brownies 
Coffee 


FATHER’S DAY DINNER 


Oyster cocktail 

Celery—Olives 

Broiled steak 

Shoestring potatoes 

Fried onions 

Tossed salad 

Hot Biscuits 

Apple pie with vanilla ice cream 
Coffee 


THANKSGIVING DINNER I 


Fruit cocktail 

Celery—Olives 

Cream of corn soup with crisp 
crackers 

Roast turkey with chestnut dressing 

Mashed potatoes—Baked stuffed 
onions 

Cranberry sauce 

Bread and butter 

Pumpkin pie—Cheese 

Coffee 

Nuts—Mints 


THANKSGIVING DINNER II 


Fruit cup 

Celery—Cheese straws 

Roast Goose or Duck 

Apple stuffing—Orange stuffing 
Brussel Sprouts 

Potatoes Au Gratin 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 

Orange Blossom Salad 

French Bread 

Mincemeat Pie or Pumpkin Pie 
Nuts—Mints 

Coffee 


300 





CHRISTMAS DINNER I 


Oysters o nthe half-shell 

Stuffed celery—Ripe olives 

Cream of mushroom soup 

Bread sticks 

Roast goose or duck with fried 
apples 

Candied sweet potatoes 

Creamed cauliflower 

Dinner rolls—Currant jelly 

Hearts of lettuce salad 

French dressing or mayonnaise 

Mince pie—French ice cream 

Nuts—Mints—Coffee 

Assorted candies 


CHRISTMAS DINNER II 


Shrimp cocktail 

Cheese crackers 

Sherried Grapefruit or 

Grapefruit sections with honey & 
sherry 

Roast turkey—Bread dressing 

Whole cranberry sauce 

Broccoli with Hollandaise sauce 

Sweet potatoes in Orange cups 

Scalloped oysters 

Celery and carrot strips 

Hot rolls 

Mince pie—Fruit Cake—Syllabub 

Coffee 


NEW YEAR’S DINNER I 
Pineapple juice 

Roast fresh ham 

Tart applesauce 

Mashed sweet potatoes 
Baked onions 


Endive Salad with Roquefort 
French dressing 


Assorted bread 
Mince pie 
Coffee 


NEW YEAR’S DINNER II 


Cranberry punch 
Cheese wafers 
Baked ham 


_ Sweet pickle peaches 


Turnip greens 

Black eyed peas and hog jowl 
Baked sweet potatoes 

Corn bread—Hot biscuits 


Fried apple jacks or Peach Puffs 
Coffee 


301 





VEGETABLES 


Artichokes 


[Asparagus 


Beans (String 
| or Wax) 


Beans (Lima) 


Beets 
; 


Brussels Sprouts 
or Cabbage 


Carrots, Kohlrabi 


Cauliflower or 
Broccoli 


Corn on Cob 


Corn 


Eggplant 
Greens (all kinds) 


Hominy 


Mushrooms 


Okra 


Onions 


Parsnips, Turnips: 


or Rutabagas 
Peas 


Peppers, (Green, 
Sweet) 


Peppers (Pimiento) 


CANNING TIME TABLE 


HOT WATER 
BATH-TIME 
iN MINUTES 


Wash, trim. Precook 5 min. in water with vine- 


OCimee ROC Keene eee SRE SAE Re RTS 180 
Wathafsey. folgsteterelic SPU ilar) [Petal nti: sae cell Or aia ret 180 
Wash, string, cut or leave whole, precook 3 min. 
Pac kgeees, Sey Pee Fr ti... Bere ROO ee ee 180 
Shell, grade, precook 3 min. Pack..................2.---- 180 
Wash, leave roots & stems long, precook 15 min., 
SIIDESKINS DOCK met tert es eles os bar). <2 120 
Remove outer leaves, wash, precook 5 min. 
Brolel et 3 At l§ kaa. pL ele RM Zo 2 ae en 120 
Washepeel, precooksS\min& Pack. kine. 2 120 
Remove outside leaves, wash, precook 4 min. 
OC Ke eee eet ere eee, BO eran, Sa Te. ee 150 
Remove husks, precook 3 to 5 min. Pack............ 210 


Remove husks. Cut from cob. Precook 5 min. 
POCKMOOSE! Vie th sf eeemnee. weet. 9 s.r ors eetcaecotens 210 


Peel, cut in slices or strips, precook 5 min. Pack....120 


Wash thoroughly. Steam or precook to wilt. Pack 


LOOSE nem ce ee. mite one sewer, catee eto SE MU eT eran cease. 180 
PreCcCOKeon itl ma ROCK MOOSE! Vues ttre eee 120 
Clean, wash, cut large ones, precook 3 min. Pack 

lOOSCLY memeeencoeremmat ce nr rte. enremr Wort nty eae er at, 180 
VV CIS BO LCCOOKmoaIn) ae E.G pie Ste ee ote 180 
Peel@wasnsprecook oimin., pOck 2. .a.s.0- 2 see 180 
WashyparesiprecookSiminmPack.......... ReMRIze, 90 


Shell, grade, precook 3 to 7 min. Pack loosely 


Wash, remove seed pod, precook 3 min. Pack...... 120 


Precook 15 min. Peel, stem, cut out seeds, flat- 


Herp eOCk gtce: tart Ie Ce i ee 40 


L 


| 





302 
Pumpkin Cut in pieces, steam tender. Remove pulp. Pack...1 80/ 
Sauerkraut Pack, add kraut juice or weak brine..............-------+- ile: 
Spinach Wash thoroughly. Steam or precook to wilt. Pack 
LOOSOLY) ities eae) Jeaeish «dean fs -c soon oda lcnlohte ae 180 
Squash (Summer, | 
Chayoke or Zucchini) Precook 3 to 5 min. Pack. -2....2...0..22. eee eeeeeeeeees 180 
Squash (Crookneck Cut in pieces, steam tender. Remove pulp. 
Hubbord:or Banana) Pack sn 2 See eres cs cese cs cncl eee ee 180 | 
Sweet Potatoes Wash, boil or steam 20 min., remove skins. Pack...1 80 
Tomatoes (See under Fruits.) | 


Tomato Juice 


Vegetable Mixtures 


SOUPS 
Asporagus 


Clam Chowder 
Fish Chowder 


Pea Soup 


Soupstock 


Vegetable 
Soup Mixtures 


FRUITS 
Apples 


Apricots 


Wash, peel, cut in sections. Simmer until soft, 
press thru sieve. Bring to boiling. Pour in jars....... S 


Prepare vegetables, precook separately, combine, 
process length of time necessary for vegetable 
requiring longest processing. 3 


Use tough part, boil. Press through sieve. Sea- 
SON} ;DAGK: qeerisiss2 Meee Uy 2 Ok 5k eee 180 


Precook#] 0 minr Pack*inijars1 1.2.5.5 eee 240 


Use fish scraps. Cover with water, cook thorough- 
ly. Add other ingredients. Pack in jars................. 240 


Precook peas until soft, press thru sieve. Season. 
Prickieeeh, Oana er Ones he) ea 180 


Use scraps of meat, cover with water. Season. 
Simmer until cooked. Pour in jars.....0:........ 180 


Use any vegetable combination, blanch or pre- 
cook. Pack. Season, process time necessary for 
vegetable requiring longest processing. 


Wash, pare, core, cut in pieces. Drop in sli 
; ; ; : Pp in slightl 
salted water. Pack. Add syrup. Pack, torre 25 


Wash, halve and pit. Pack. Add SY Ups eee 20 


303 





Berries (except 
Strawberries and 


Cranberries 
Cherries 


Cranberries 


Currants 


Figs 
Fruit Juices 


Grapes 
Peaches 


Pears 


Pineapple | 


Plums 
Preserves 


Quinces 
Rhubarb 


Strawberries 


Tomatoes 


Tomatoes for Salad 


Tomato Puree 


Walnuts 


Wash, stem, pack. Add syrup or water.............--- 20 
Wash, stem, pit. Pack. Add syrup...................--- 20 
Wash, remove stems. Boil 3 min. in No. 3 syrup. 
POC ere rE IE FFE ee omc snenerstccrecentenes 10 
Wash, stem, pack. Add syrup or water. ...........--- 20 
Put in soda bath 5 min., rinse. Precook 5 min. in 
SVD mEEOC MOC. SYFULI er sire cecrtncrene vem amenmeennd acd 30 
Crush fruit, heat slowly, strain. Pour in jars. 
Process in water bath. (180° simmering.)............ 20 
Wash, stem, pack. Add syrup or water. ................ 20 
REEIMDOCK MOCCISVIUD? —POCKs -i-.c.-c.s2ku rere, eae rae 20 
Select not overripe pears, pare, halve, precook 3 
to 5 min. in syrup, Pack. Add syrup. ...................- 25 
Peel, remove eyes, cut or slice. Precook in No. 2 
SVFUP 2.101 LU Iiny © hOCK WITTISV IUDs yee cae ens ce 30 
Wash, prick skins. Pack. Add syrup. ................-- 20 


Prepare as per recipe. Cook until thick. Pack..... 20 


Wash, pare, cut in pieces. Precook 3 min. in syrup. 
PGK ACCES VVEIC tae cle eu cei lac ee ie Seren 35 


Wash, cut into pieces without removing the skin. 
Pc Kee ACCES VILID aimee terran terete ere eee tenes 10 


Wash, stem, precook gently for 3 min. in syrup. 
Remove from syrup and cool. Boil syrup 3 min. 
Add berries and let stand for several hours. Re- 
ATECw ANY yy peed Ok Mates oe igs ck Ree ea a eros eR Re ET 20 


Scald I min., cold dip 1 min., peel, core, quar- 
Wet pce EMM teed Gy ene eke a Bal ee ate ATTEN STOR 35 


Scald 1 min., cold dip 1 min., peel, core. Pack. 
CoverawitnetOniotonUiCew. 9 ne eee 35 


Cook all ingredients until soft. Press thru sieve. 
Pc Katee eaente eat Coad anc Baa Somes, 2oT ete 9 saeman eee oD 


Pack into jars. Process in oven at 225° for 45 min. 


304 





MEATS 


Lamb, Veal, 
Beef, Steak 


Pork 


Tenderloin, Ham, 
Pork Chops 


Sausage 


Chicken, Rabbit, 
Duck, Turkey 


Deer, Wild Birds, 
Geese 


Fish, all kinds 


Bleed well and cool thoroughly. Precook, pack, 
add salt 1 tsp. to qt., add 3 or 4 tbsp. liquid. 
PROCESS gait ieee a Sie Oe 3 use Ye Seen ae 180 


Bleed well and cool thoroughly. Precook, pack, 
add salt 1 tsp. to qt., add 3 or 4 tbsp. liquid. Then 


DOC CSS oe erie Wee ates ars eee aL, Meera ke Sen eee 180 
Fry until brown. Pack. Add salt 1 tsp. to qt. Add 
3 or 4 tbsp. water or broth. Then process. ............ 180 


Shape into cakes. Fry until brown. Pack. Add 3 
or’ 4 tbspy liquids then! process=....2:.......-.00.. seen 180 


Bleed well, and cool thoroughly. Precook, pack, 
add salt 1 tsp. to qt., add 3 or 4 tbsp. liquid. 
ProGesss). 9) tke: oo i. JEN ere ee ee ene ee 180 


Bleed well, cool thoroughly, soak in brine 30 min. 
or parboil. Precook, pack, add salt 1 tsp. to qt., 
add3'on-4 tbsp wliquidsstrocessvsssa.. =. eee 180 


Use only firm, fresh fish. Bleed well. Wash, 
precook. Pack, add salt 1 tsp. to qt. Process. ...... 240 


NOTE:—All vegetables (except tomatoes) and meats canned at home should 


be boiled in an open vessel 10 to 15 minutes before 
tasting or using. 


11. 


METHODS OF CANNING 305 


METHODS OF CANNING 


Steps for Hot and Cold Pack Method. 


Examine top of jars to see that there are no nicks, cracks, sharp edges, 
Stc: 


Wash jars well in hot soapy water. Scald thoroughly. 


Select fresh, firm (not overripe) products. Grade according to size and 
ripeness. 


Prepare according to recipe. 


Pack product into clean jars to not more than ¥% inch of top. (Except 
corn, peas, lima beans and meats. For these products, fill jars to within 
1 inch of top.) 


Add liquid: 
(a) Fruits: Syrup to within 144 inches of top of jar when fruit is packed 


cold, or 14 inch of top when fruit is packet hot, or fruit juice or hot 
water to within 14 inch of top of jar. 


(b) Vegetables: Liquids to within 14 inch of top of jar (salt or other 
seasoning may be added). 


(c) Meats: For precooked meats, add 3 or 4 tbsp. of liquid. Meats 
packed raw do not require the addition of liquid. 


Wipe top of jar free of all seeds, pulp, grease, etc. 


Place scalded lid on jar with sealing composition next to glass, and 
screw band firmly tight. When using the Economy jar, place scalded 
Economy Cap on jar and put on clamp. If clamp is too loose, bend suf- 
ficiently to hold cap firmly on jar. 


Process required length of time according to time table. 


Remove jars from cooker. Do not tighten screw bands. Set on surface 
on which several thicknesses of cloth have been laid. Do not turn jars 
upside down while cooling and sealing and do not screw band down after 
jars are cold and sealed. Do not set hot jars in a draft. 


Test for seal. (When jars are cold, take a spoon and gently tap the lids. 
If properly sealed, they will give a clear, ringing note, and be slightly 
curved inwardly caused by the vacuum inside. If not properly sealed, 


306 METHODS OF CANNING 


the sound will be dull and low in key, in which case you have an oppor- 
tunity to re-can contents and thus save your food. 


Hot Water Bath 


A wash boiler or large deep vessel that has a close-fitting cover, may be 
used as a canner. A “‘Canner’”’ must be fitted with a rack made of laths, 
galvanized wire or other perforated material. The rack must hold the jars 
at least 14 inch above the bottom of the canner. Have the water in the can- 
ner near the boiling point. 


Prepare the product and proceed according to directions for Hot and Cold 
Pack canning as given. 


Place the filled jars on the rack in the canner far enough apart to allow the 
free circulation of water around them. The water should cover the jars at 
least one inch over the top. Start counting processing time as soon as water 
surrounding the jars begins to boil. Keep the water boiling for entire process- 
ing period. If water boils down add sufficient boiling water to keep it at the 
required height. 


Process the required length of time. 


As soon as the processing period is up remove jars from the canner. Do 
not tighten screw bands. Set on surface on which several thicknesses of 
cloth have been laid. Do not turn jars upside down while cooling and sealing 
and do not screw bands down after jars are cold and sealed. Do not set hot 
jars in a draft. 


Test for seal. 


(pee ee eee (ee, 


Allspice 
Pimento 
Officinalis 


Anise — 
Pimpinella 
Anisum 


Bay Leaves 
Folia Lauris 
Nobilis 


Cake Spice 


Caraway Seed 
Carum Carui 


Cardamom 
Seed 
Elettaria 
Cardamomum 


Cassia 
Cinnamomum 
Cassia 


TABLE OF HERBS AND SPICES 


307 


TABLE OF HERBS AND SPICES 


Pea-sized fruit of a West 
Indian tree. Flavor re- 
sembles a blend of cinna- 
mon, nutmeg and cloves 
—hence its name. 


Fruit of a small plant 
grown in southern Europe, 
also Tunis, India and 
Chile. Is much used in 
flavoring licorice. 


Aromatic leaves of spe- 
cies of laurel tree. Comes 
from eastern Mediterran- 
ean countries. 


A blend of spices. 


Dried fruits of biennial 
plant. Is grown in north- 
ern Europe, notably Hol- 
land. 


Small brown seeds which 
grown enclosed in a pod 
varying from % to 1 
inch in length. Grown in 
Malay Archipelago, India, 
Ceylon, etc. 


Commonly called ‘‘cinna’- 
mon’ because the flavors 
resemble each other, but 
from a botanically differ- 
ent plant. The part used 
as spice is the bark which 
is peeled off and cleaned. 


Whole—pickling, preparation of meats, gravies, 
boiling fish. Ground—baked goods, puddings, 
relishes, some fruit preserves. Used in West 
Indian cordial, Pimento Dram. Used powdered 
as moth preventive and scent for stored cloth- 
ing. 


Sprinkled on coffee-cakes, sweet rolls, etc. Good 
for cookies and candies. Added to sweet 
pickles. Widely used to make the cordial Anis- 
ette. Use one teaspoon powdered, to pint of 
warm milk for sleep-producing nightcap. Uhed 
to flavor some cough medicines. Almost all 
licorice prdoucts are flavored with anise. 


Used in pickling, stews, spiced vinegars, soups. 
Combines well with fish, boiled or in chowder. 
One bay leaf whole or broken flavors a whole 
tomato casserole or a can of tomato soup. A 
decoction of the leaves is a healing wash for 
some skin troubles. The famous “‘laurel leaves’’ 
which crowned Greek heroes were bay leaves. 


Useful in mincemeat and dark spice cakes. 
Added to household incense, greatly intensifies 
its fragrance. 


Use in rye break, sauerkraut, new cabbage, 
sprinkle on French fried potatoes; on pork, 
liver, kidneys before cooking. Mix with cream 
or other soft cheeses for canape spread and 
celery stuffing. Pearl with sugar for confection. 
Add to popcorn balls. Caraway Seed is THE 
important ingredient in the cordial Kummel. 


Whole (in pod) used in Mixed Pickling Spices. 
Decorticated (pod removed)—a seed to each 
demi-tasse or in Turkish coffee. Ground fla- 
vors Danish pastry, bun breads, coffee cakes, 
sliced oranges. Improves the flavor of Grape 
Jelly. Spicing wine; disguising the taste of 
medicines. Among Oriental people chewed to 
sweeten the breath. New York bars furnish 
Cardamom to kill liquor breath. Grandmother 
used to chew them in church, like peppermints. 


preserving, flavoring pud- 
dings, stewed fruits. Serve with clove-stuck 
lemon slices in hot tea. Used in hot drinks. 
Ground—baked goods often in combination 
with allspice, nutmeg and clove. The principal 
mincemeat spice. Combine with mashed sweet 
potatoes; and with sugar for cinnamon toast. 
Dust on fried bananas. Used to flavor tobacco 
products, including snuff. 


Who!e—-pickling, 


308 


Cassia Buds 


Cayenne 
Capsicum 
Minimum 


Celery Salt 


Celery Seed 
Apium - 
Graveolens 


Chili Peppers 
Capsicum 
Frutescens 


Chili Powder 


Cinnamon 
Cinnamomum 
zeylanicum 


Cloves 
Eugenia 
Caryo- 
phyllata 


TABLE OF HERBS AND SPICES 


From Cassia tree of Malay 
Archipelago, China. 


Small red peppers ground 


fine. Grown mainly in 
Africa. 
Made by combining 


ground Celery Seed with 
salt. 


A minute seed-like fruit. 
Grown in many countries, 
including France, India, 
Holland, and the United 
States. 


Small, elongated pods are 
grown in Japan, Mexico, 
California, the Carolinas 
and Louisiana produce 
other kinds. 


Made from Mexican Chili - 
blended 


Peppers and 
spices. Can be secured 
either mild or “hot.” 


Aromatic bark of cinna- 
mon tree. Mostly from 
Ceylon. 


Nail-shaped flower bud of 
the stately clove tree. 
Originally found only in 
Netherlands East Indies. 
Now also grown in Mada- 
gascar and Zanzibar. 


Used in pickling. Chewed to sweeten the 


breath. 


Good with meats, fish, sauces, used in modera- 
tion. A pinch helps all, even sweet souffles. 
Use with care in egg dishes. The real antidote 
for flatness. The ground product is poured into 
ant nests to drive ants away. Some dog-trainers 
shake it on rugs and other spots to discourage 
animals. A stimulant for the stomach. 


Good with fish, boiled or fried eggs, potato 
salad, etc. Valuable in salad dressings. Par- 
ticularly fine in tomato and kraut juices, in 
bouillon. 


Good with fish, potato salad, tomato dishes, 
tomato soup. Mix with cream cheese colored 
with paprika for canapes and spreads. Used 
in pickling and salad dressings. Superb in 
Irish stews. Making a HIT in hamburgers. 


Mexican varieties are basic for chili powder; 
used whole in pickling. Always present in 
pickling spices. One or two chilis (broken) 
cooked with soup, stews or fish chowder much 
improves the quality. Seeds produce ornamen- 
tal bushes of convenient size for growth indoors. 


For such Mexican dishes as chili con carne. 


Good in shell fish and oyster cocktail sauces; 


for boiled and scrambled eggs, gravy and stew 
seasoning, canned corn. Chili flavored hot dogs _ 
and bologna are tops. - 


See Cassia. Try sticks in Ski Balls; hot, sweet, 


Strong tea with clove-stuck lemon slices plain 


or spiked. Use long sticks for tall drinks. Fla- 
vors medicines, chocolate. Makes “‘tea.”’ 


Whole—for pork (ham) roasts; pickling of 
fruits, spiced sweet sirups. Ground—baked 
goods, chocolate puddings; potato soup, bortsch, 
stews. Stud lemon slices with cloves for tea. 
Pomanders: Stud oranges with cloves. Roll in 
mixture of equal parts powdered orris root and 
cinnamon. Wrap in tissue for a few weeks; 
shake off powder. For fragrance and moth re- 
pellant. 


M) 


So 
SETS | 


} 
, 
} 


Coriander 
Coriandrum 
\Sativum 


i 


} 

‘Cumin (also 
spelled 

|Cummin) 

Cuminum 
Cyminum 


| 


; 


Curry Powder 


) 


Dill Seed 


Fennel 
Foeniculum 
Vulgare 


Fines Herbes 


Garlic Salt 


TABLE OF HERBS AND SPICES 


Dried fruit of a small 
plant. Resembles a white 
peppercorn. Grown in 
Southern Europe and In- 
dia, but mainly in Moroc- 
co. 


Small dried fruit resem- 
bling caraway seed in 
shape. Comes from Med- 
iterranean islands, Mo- 
rocco, and India. 


A blend of several spices. 
Native to India, but in- 
creasingly popular in the 
United States. 


Small dark seed of dill 
plant. Imported from its 
native India. 


Small seed-like fruit with 
flavor somewhat like An- 
ise. 


Chop separately % onion, 
2 scallions, 2 sprigs pars- 
ley, % small leek, 1 ta- 
blespoonful leaf marjo- 
am. 


Fresh garlic with salt. A 
powerful vegetable har- 
nessed to do no more 
than desired. 


309 


Whole—in mixed pickles. Use 1 teaspoon to 
apple pie with nutmeg and cinnamon; a few 
seeds with a bit of ginger root, a whole clove, 
a few mustard and allspice seeds, a bay leaf in 
pea soup. Add to gingerbread batter, to cook- 
ies, cakes, biscuits, poultry stuffings, mixed 
green salads, frankfurther rolls. Ground—=in 
sausage making; to flavor buns; to rub on fresh 
pork; to flavor gin. Crush one seed in each 
demi-tasse. Favors hot dogs. 


An ingredient in curry and chili powders. Boil 
seeds briefly and pound for cooking use. Rice 
and saffron dishes need generous cumin flavor. 
Good in soups, cheese, pies, stuffed eggs. For 
canapes, mix chutney with snappy cheese and 
garnish with cumin seed. One of the oldest 
known spices. Used in Cornwall for ritualistic 
tithe-paying. 


Used for curry sauce, in currying meat, fish, 
eggs. Makes a good cream soup with chicken- 
stock base. (One teaspoonful to one can of 
tomato soup.) Try a dash in French dressing; 
fine in scalloped tomatoes, clam and _ fish 
chowders. 


Used for pickling. Use a pinch in sauerkraut, 
salads, in soups, especially bortsch and bean; 
in fish and meat sauces, in gravies, in spiced 
vinegars, green apple pie. As “‘tea’’ relieves 


stomach discomfort. Such ‘dill water’’ was 
official in the British Pharmacopaeia. 
Used with boiled fish; also in pastries. Popu- 


lar in Scandinavian cooking. Its anise-like 
flavor enlivens apple pie. Popular in sweet 
pickles. Used to flavor many candies and 
liquers, and in soap manufacturing. 


Stews, soups, meat and fish stuffings. Gar- 
nishing. Excellent in omelets, buter sauce for 
fish, especially mackerel. Grilled meats. Mix . 
with prepared mustard for cold cuts. Season- 
ing for invalid’s broth. 


Tops with tomato juice and 
Puts zest into 


A vitalizing food. 
any meat or vegetable dish. 
French dressing or salads. 


310 


Ginger 


Mace 
Myristica 


Marjoram 
Origanum 
Marjorana 


Mixed Whole 
Spice 


White 
Brassica Alba 
Black 
Brassica 
Nigra 


TABLE OF HERBS AND SPICES 


Root of a tuberous plant 
grown mainly in Jamaica, 
B.W.1., West Africa, In- 
dia, and the Orient. 


Arillus or fleshy growth 
between the nutmeg shell 
and outer husk; orange- 


red in color. Flavor re- 
sembles nutmeg. From 
Netherlands East Indies 


and Grenada, B.W.I. 


Herb of mint family. Im- 
ported mostly from France 
and Germany and Hun- 


gary. 


An assortment of a dozen 
or more whole spices, used 
chiefly in pickling. 


Small seed, widely culti- 
vated but imported main- 
ly from England, Europe, 
and the Orient. Some 
good varieties are now 
grown in the U.S. A. 


Cracked—chutneys, conserves, pickling. Stew | 
with dried fruits, applesauce, etc. Ground— 

cakes, especially gingerbread, Indian pudding, 

pumpkin pie, cookies. Many canned fruits 

benefit by a dash of ginger, especially canned 

pears. Powdered Jamaica Ginger is a remedy 

for stomach ills. Flavors ginger ale, ginger 

beer. Tonic—Ginger Tea. 


Blades—especially good with fish sauces; 
pickling, preserving. Excellent in stewed cher- | 
ries. Adda blade to Welsh rarebit. One blade, 
chopped, flavors fruit jellies, gingerbread bat- 
ter. Chop fine and add to biscuit dough for 
service with fruit salad. Ground—essential in 
fine pound cakes, contributes a golden tone and 
exotic flavor to all yellow cakes. One teaspoon 
to | pint whipped cream cuts oiliness, increases 
delicacy. Valuable in all chocolate dishes. A 
dash in oyster stew is good. Perfume and in- 
cense ingredient. Used to flavor medicine. 
Sachet bags of ground mace with linen impart 
fresh fragrance. 


Leaf—delicious with lamb, sprinkled over while 
cooking. In combination with other herbs 
makes stews, soups, sausage products, etc., 
unexpectedly appetizing. Also in poultry sea- 
sonings. There is a stimulating freshness to 
the aroma of marjoram which may explain the 
preference of Queen Bess to perfumes contain- 
ing it. 


Used in the pickling and preserving of meats, 
vegetables, relishes, etc. Also, to savor stews 
and gravies. A tablespoonful with boiling beets 
and cabbage imparts the gourmet touch. 


Most popular U. S. Condiment. Whole—used 
to garnish salads, pickled meats, fish and ham- 
burgers. Dry—(also known as Mustard Flour) 
——flavors meats, sauces and gravies. Used in 
white sauce for fish. Prepared—(blended with 
other spices and vinegar)—sandwiches and hot 
dogs are incomplete without it. Ham and no 
mustard—unthinkable. Mustard flour, mixed 
with water to a paste makes curative plasters. 
A tub of warm water + mustard = the ““Mus- 
tard bath” so helpful in treating colds and fa- 
tigue. There are other medicinal uses for 
Mustard. 


Nutmeg 
Myristica 
Fragrans 


Onion Salt 


Oregano 


Paprika or 
Sweet Pepper, 
usually made 
from 
Capsicum 
Annum 


Pepper 
Piper Nigrum 


TABLE OF HERBS AND SPICES 


The kernel of a fruit also 
known by that name. 
Grown in Netherlands 
East Indies and British 
West Indies. 


Fresh onion combined with 
salt and dried. 


Known also as Mexican 
Sage. Grown in Mexico. 


A sweet red pepper, 
ground after seeds and 
stems have been removed. 
Spain and Hungary are 
the chief producers. 


Most generally used of all 
spices. A ‘small round 
berry picked before ripe 
which grows on a climb- 
ing vine. The Nether- 
lands East Indies and In- 
dia are the chief sources 
of supply. White pepper 
is the mature berry with 
the outer hull removed. 
Less pungent than the 
black. 


3] 
Whole—to be grated as needed. Ground— 
used in baked goods, sauces, puddings. Good 


sprinkled over certain vegetables such as cauli- 
flower. Merges well with spinach. Topping 
for eggnog and custards. Sprinkle on fried bo- 
nanas, on bananas and berries with cream. Use 
in sweet potato souffle. The best spice flavor- 
ing for doughnuts and many alcoholic and non- 
alcoholic beverages. Nutmegs are sometimes 
carved into charms and pins. 


Used wherever a mild onion flavor is wanted, 
such as sauce, meats, gravies, chicken sand- 
wiches. Ideal for that touch of perfection to a 
cup of consomme. Reaches the peak of satis- 
fying usefulness in hamburgers. Particularly 
good in ground-meat dishes. 


Used principally in making chili powder, for 
chili con carne. A good seasoning for varying 
the flavor of pork dishes. See marjoram. Rub 
a little between the hands, letting it fall on an 
omelet or boiled eggs. Note the resulting dis- 
tinctive flavor harmony. 


Mild flavor good with shellfish, fish, salad 
dressings. Used lavishly as a garnish, also 
with sweet corn on the cob. Mix with butter 
to make paprika butter. For canapes mix with 
cream cheese and celery seed. Enriches the 
flavor and color of catchup and other tomato 
condiments; also tomato juice. An excellent 
source of the “‘resistance’’ Vitamin C, a neces- 
sity for good tooth health. | 


Whole—(Black and White)—Used in pickling, 
soups, and meats. Ground—(Black and White) 
——Used in meats, sauces, gravies, many vege- 
tables are improved by a sprinkling of pepper. 
Important in curing ‘’Virginia’’ style hams. The 
assertive ingredient. in’ preparing pastrami. 
Ground—Sprinkled in floor cracks and around 
any area to be protected from insects, black 
pepper is an effective repellent. Used in soap 
making and carnation perfumes. Spread lav- 
ishly on rugs to be stored or in woolens, is a 
moth-repellent used throughout the world. 


312 


Poppy Seed 
Papaver 
Rhoeas 


Poultry 
Seasoning 


Pumpkin Pie 
Spice 


Rosemary 
Rosmarinus 
Officinalis 


Sage 
Salvia 
Officinalis 


Saffron 
Crocus 
Sativus 


Sausage 
Seasoning 


Savory 
Satureia 
Hortensis 


TABLE OF HERBS AND SPICES 


Seed of the poppy plant. 
Imported from Holland. 
About 900,000 seeds to 


the pound. 


A mixture of herbs and 
spice. 


A blend of spices. 


A spiky herb, rather 
sweetish. Grows in south- 
ern Europe. 


Leaf of a _ low-growing 
herb. Choicest comes 
from Yugoslavia. Also 
Greece. 


Tiny stigma of a crocus- 
like flower. Takes 225,- 
000 to make a pound. 
Grown in Mediterranean 
areas. Three stigmata to 
each flower. Over 70,- 
000 blossoms needed per 
pound. 


A blend of herbs and 
spices. 


Herb of the mint family. 
Grown in many climates. 
Imported from Germany. 


Topping for breads, rolls and cookies. Mix | 
pound ground seed with %2 pound sugar and 
1 cup milk. Boil 10 minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. When cool spread on pastry dcugh, 
dot with butter. A valuable edible oil pressed 
from Poppy Seed is used for margarine, salads, 
etc. 


For poultry, veal and pork stuffings. Fine also 
for fish stuffings. Much liked with paprika 
also in meat loaf. Mixed with fritter batter 
yields a neat biscuit for service with poultry. 


For pumpkin cookery and in spiced cookies. 
Varies gingerbread, cookies and breakfast buns. 
for that ‘‘something new’’ French fry slices of 
raw pumpkin. Dust lightly with the spice. 


Sprinkle on beef before roasting. Combine 
with basil and marjoram for herb garni espe- 
cially in turtle soup. Use in lamb dishes, in 
soups and stews. Flavors fish and meat stocks. 
Combines well with gin drinks. Europeans 
stuff pillows with rosemary often mixed with 
pine needles ‘for remembrance.’’ Said to in- 
sure faithfulness. A pint of boiling water pour- 
ed on 1 ounce of rosemary makes a fine hair 
wash. 


Used in meat stuffings, head cheese, various 
pork products, particularly sausage. Steeped 
in hot water makes a medicinal tea to abate 
colds. Sage + American Cheese = Sage 
Cheese. 


Used principally for the pleasant yellow color 
it imparts. Saffron rolls and buns are a de- 
light to Latin palates. Most highly esteemed 
in “‘Arroz Con Pollo’ the famous Chicken-Rice 
dish of Spain. Was strewn for its perfume in 
the Roman baths and before Nero on his en- 
trances to the city. 


Used in sausage making and is good in meat 
loaf, veal, birds, and similar dishes. Mixed 
with fritter batter to make an herb bun to 
serve with fresh ham and other roasted pork. 
Often combined with other herbs to flavor 
meats. Used in scrambled eggs, in salads, in 
soups. Used like rosemary to stuff pillows. 


Sesame Seed 
Sesamum 
Indicum 


Sweet Basil 
Ocymum 
Bastlicum 


Thyme 
Thymus 
Vulgaris 


Turmeric 
Curcuma 
Longa 


TABLE OF HERBS AND SPICES 


Small honey-colored seed, 
grown in Turkey, India, 
and the Orient. Not much 
left for import after na- 
tive consumption is taken 
care of. 


Annual plant cultivated in 
Western Europe. Grows 
elsewhere. Leaves and 
tender stems, cleaned and 
dried. 


Garden herb, grown in 
temperate climates. Much 
imported from France. 
Leaves and tender stems, 
cleaned and dried. 


A root of the ginger fam- 
ily. Has a rich appetiz- 
ing odor, and is bright 
yellow in color. Grown in 
India. 


313 


Baked on rolls, breads and buns a rich tosted 
nut flavor is developed. The source of sesame 
oil. Principal ingredient in Oriental candy 
known as halvah. 


Famed as seasoning for tomato paste and tur- 
tle soups. Also use in tomato dishes, cooked 
peas, squash, and string beans. Venerated by 
the Hindus; planted outside their temples and 
homes to insure happiness. 


Used in stews, soups, and stuffings for poultry. 
Often used with other herbs. Outstandingly 
good in clam and fish chowders. Yields an 
element called thymol, important in the com- 
pounding of cough remedies. 


Blending to a most appetizing flavor turmeric 
and mustard have long travelled together. 
These two spices in varying proportions are 
ideal for pickles and almost every meat and 
egg dish. Turmeric paper made by dipping 
paper into a turmeric solution for alkalinity 
tests. Used dissolved in water for tinting un- 
varnished floors in the tropics. 


INDEX 


APPETIZERS AND CANAPES Page 
ACInirol s oO Iden mGbUCKi = ta ceeres sce is 
FATICUOV Vane te ee ths enna oe song Seek a S| 
IACHOVVE GONODES ec wey eee eas 13 
AY GCOUGHLA pene bere cers ce ee 14 
ECG DGS elie ter as ee en eae 14 
GHOPESMCOVOT Ole wh tte eae. eee an cas 14 
Cheese-Olive Canapes ...............22....-+ 14 
CHIiCkermeL Velie G6 0. i haere cy ieee 14 
CHICKEN TOrePUrKEViC. teen eee a ane 15 
BrGUm@ONGDe Sun se ainsi cect seeeee eee tea 15 
KFODIVIGOtERaSte gt tn tae erste 15 
Creamm Cheesea LID aor sce. asc ctevies cers conn we 15 
Deviled Ham Horseradish...................... 16 
Devileauobsterbuiste Pee 16 
Deviled Sardine Canape.................-.2.--+ 16 
Deviled “Pongiue st ts eevee sedans Sees tna ioa. 16 
Biginigcneese Pople ioc ae see te are 16 
POT LINGUS POOM laut sass ausceceares.seeccacteeeee 17 
MincedaGhickeninviacscssertnssce.s ree ees 17 
Pate de Foie Gras Biscuits 

With DOCOM EE meteor nace les neece eee 17 
PatemPOYSOtar os. .t urate ak eee eet 17 
Pierre:s Appetlzer ic siiacs. des tac ete 18 
Pitted Olives Wrapped in Bacon............ 18 
Roqueforts Cheeseie.c a Blicafscaondeontacc-bs- 18 
Shrimp, Cheese” Spreads... i¢-2u). cc.op-teee 18 
BEVERAGES Page 
PYOTICOTA IZ 2a teeeenis eceees oe ee eee 19 
Budget Champagne Punch.................... 19 
SHetrya BOUNCE rete Leet es 19 
EQOu INGO 1h eee tene toate ca cbr ahedticesirses 19 
Boru Ee UNCI peyecneaney mise tect ae acne scales 20 
Ginger AlesPonch. eit ate tee 20 
PIGDOUTOSHCCOCKIGUm cee, sere t ee 20 
rote Cronbercyier UnChiey et ee eee 20 
Mitta le (am ner een tee oes. een 20 
Old Apple Jack Cocktaill.:...................... 21 
RUSSION Mil CO tase ee em em 21 
swedish Christos Leds.csa tee eee 21 
LOMO UICGMCOCKIO]| 2.7 eer ere 21 
Washington Club Champagne................ 2) 
WV OSSOI yore, pence yee en se re ees er 21 
BREADS Page 
Almond-Raisin Crown 0........c..-cccccseeeeee 22 
BONO Bread mete te eee ees 22 
Banond LOG’ mess hore eee ee en de 
BOOOnG IMU tt inistesesest eee no ee ee 23 
Blueberry Bran Muffins.......................- 23 


314 


Bostona Brown bred... 2.2 .-.ccssesoek senses 23 
BiscuitsaSupreme 020... chores ede eeeer 29 
PErfeCtn DISCUItSee eet od. 52. a eeseee 30 
Boterloek (Dutch Shortbread)................ 24 
BuckwheateGakesie se c2.6c.c eee 35 
Cheese. Brédd iy eee aera eee 24 
Cheese !Putis win aes Lee ee 36 
GinnamorpBuns eee os cal states 39 
Gorn Meal sMuffins eatin .27. eee Zo 
Granberry cNutebreaqdast.-csseteeccseee 24 
Crullers .22 et ee ee ee Zo 
Danishs Pastry ee oe ee 34 
Dote-Nut Bread ,2.5.6-...1. eee eaten PAs. 
DixieaMuttins A. meee... eee 26 
Dixie tSpoon!| Breadie tier. 7... aie 26 
Doughintitswe. 2 eee oe eeereee 36 
Fan hlanseeit ie uae ee eens 33 
Filled .Gottee (Ring seeer....----2 eee 34 
Foundation Sweet Dough...2....-....- 34 
Fresh Orange wl WiStS 2 yecssc tices nc eee 26 
Georgia Sallyn bunnies Ae. eee 27 
Gluten Bread (For Diabetics).................. oy 
Hoecake) cri ent eee ee Zi 
HushaPuppieshl. 77sec aL 
Hush! Puppiestlis. 2 epee ree 28 
(CetBox Rolls tite ey ears aes 31 
Never-Fdills Muttinsae 2. ee eee 28 
No-Kneading Bread Rolls.....................- 2 
Oronde,bread\ te. 2h eee 28 
Orange: FillediRolism.. <2. eee 33 
Oranges Nut Bread.) ee 28 
Oranae-Pecan Buns 22.2... ee ee 29 
Parker riouses ROS. ..0..1 eee oy. 
Retrigerator :Rolis 210 2.2. Sut 
Sally¢Cunin’ 22655. son tusesavaeee eee eee eee 27 
Spoon-Gornbreod a.c.-seee ee eee eee 29 
Superb.) Wattles 2272. 2.1.00 eee ee 30 
Swedish>:Limpe gsc oo eee eee 33 
Wottleas civ ones een) eee eee 30 
Wottlescil pin Aaa ee 30 
Wheat Griddle Cakes...................csccceeee 36 
Whole: Wheat: Rolls. roe 31 
CANDY Page 
Brown Sugar Nut; Rollia eee 246 
Chocolates rudder... eee 246 
Chocolate Pecan Gems.................---.0--0- 246 
Chocolote\ Truffles 23... eee 247 
Cinnamon: Nits 2...iee ce ee eee 247 
Cocoanut -Creams Candy. 2221s 247 
Cream-Cheese Fudge ...............00202.-20-2- 247 





INDEX—Continued S15 
Memrraines eee. ie IL. 248 EGuistonamrruity COKesmurr cn ue. tc} 52 
BESET OIVIEIS 0, ooo... 2.2 - en connceacenonenwcecers 248 KApriboro scale mae ierria ten irene ten ig) 7 * ote 52 
ROBE ICG ccc. nc reienseecorseuracecconveneoe 248 Never-Fail Chocolate Cake...................- 52 
re oo. ces ccnonencensseceee 249 Oldrtime Dark Fruit Cakes... Joe. 2! 53 
Pe EIVONGT FUCQE M8)... oo. cee c ce cnnncee 249 Grangjercoverca Cokes noi... ee 54 
ee oe | tdeed cae apelin Daas pi Sa ne rere BL ehh idl ec Ae lille chee it. 54 
Noo c ccc eceacucceoncecccvccncese oun Ciera erates speioays | Mtmera. Arete 55 
TES oo colo oc a. cca cea--co-rocncevnse 250 POUNC COKet. coer certoner ite MTN 55 
ee ey alee li ll 250 GECTOIGELOUNCICOKe see meee a ant, oe 1338) 
OO Se (Ca 250 OR IPSIUICI Ee OUTIC) OMe re mares ea acas ieee DO 
UNIEIIRI TE TOIINIGS -.---.---.-.c---------2----cen eos Zod One and a Half Pound Pecan Nut Cake 57 
UG 251 Petits shOrirs et tree re tied eee 56 
Stee PT UN  SCUCTES. .. |... cn nsannecceence Pet Pintdnpie: ake ter eee eres eer 56 
i Se 2) plot g el sc lL ah N Sis Lk bet aretin ener Moons bene tat ee on A oy 
President Eisenhower’s Favorite Cake.... 58 
PUNE RCCOCE Voreee errr ce tote epee eet eee 58 
_ CAKES Page Queen Elizabeth I] Cake.....--.eseeeccsse-ee- 57 
Alamo Lemon Jelly Cake 37 Tima AUIS She on are eta Se 
ceeper nay ED fa yeas Ste | A che hems Oprpeared me ot aa Race eRe i A 
» dips oath Cake.....-.--------s-eeesseenees = DOUY MVV te arr Oltn coer meets. -2 eer anaes 59 
Bople | ae MO a ioe 38 Sam Houston’s Favorite White Cake...... 59 
Seo... Secerogri\ Cake tee eee te eee TOU 
i ee Te oy Cakes......-.----eeeeee ee Sour Milk> Chocolate’ Cake’e. = 60 
Be over S68. <<. 39 Sweet Potato Pound Cake................--...- 6] 
SS 40 thee Sea SE ETE OS eet geen ea naa a 
Bagha Walnut: Cake 40 APE Ys COTE gee cat cores ro taal 
nt Scere Gakk Sempra Tomato Soup Cake with Cream 
_ Brown Sugar Spice Cake with Ch ae 61 
Oa Sa) te) oS ce 40 NER cian ens LPG led rae AROS IE 
eas ana AI wa Tey Te fsetct ad SEY 7A) Gre) Nie ee ee ae 62 
California Nut and Raisin Cake............ 44 cay iSO Bacte ee ged LEW roe WO oF 
MME OK GW. ood oi dtl ekee 4] Shenangth earns aba aae ean lae Pes ae 
MV BCCIDIC GOK CII sei te Ben cae tact are hina 64 
Peemrare NUTS COKE. 2200.0... esceccek kes 4] : 
Bee iNt cof 42 White ‘Mountain: Cake. 2......--se-<sc.-nsass 65 
‘Sea : C f geen yerersecre termes enn 43 t5-pound Dark Fruit Coke-....-...-...:-.-.-- 65 
Se 1 5-pound White Fruit Cake.......--2+.-10- 66 
meray enocoicte Coke....0.021.....-.-....--- 43 
ete sone ‘ade ane noma Tg FF 4 CASSEROLE AND CHEESE DISHES Page 
ar ristmas Fruit Cake.................... 
Pe SA) a] CT Re eae 45 Anchovy, Eggs in Tomato Sauce.........-.- 104 
METRE COKC Leer eee sccveceacensnse 45 Asparagus Supreme cre tet-cc torte capes seats 104 
MEIN ELOCT CORE. .onc-.-8oci nde snseersccoe’ 46 Bacon and Eggs Supreme...........-----+-+--- 104 
i beeen iy eet Fen ytuallp hyd eters Bhe ie Baked or shirred* Equsi- teeter stee tact Ge 
ixie OMSOKO MEE tien s saree cscs ckoces Gheeses BISCUIT eect eee once ete eeee ee 
BETA DG s COKEC Lurie os ecco etek encceccss 47 Cheese Omelet ninen ee fe ete, ae 105 
9 ER LR 6a] CTT ia aetna esp SR ede 48 Cheese-Soufflesoe ee 3s Sareea 105 
metre P eo ice. COKE 3...) tocckocteccsec-oeseve 47 CheesesSticks sci cc See POS 105 
Fresh Orange Layer Cake....................-- 49 ChickenP Ate Vim occ cc ciete teens 106 
Pearegu Princess’ Caker.i)0 02 tet. 48 Chicken Liver Casserole................---+++++ 106 
German’s Chocolate Cake..............--.---- - 49 Chicken and Rice Casserole............-...-- 106 
TEV RCO KG a eericete et ee Ve 50 Chicken Tetrassine’..-....--.....22.- mage. Sage 107 
“ete ep lope [ hs et See ele ei hd 50 Creoles Shritrip tee esetorer rates ettogr seers 107 
PRIVEE KCOK Gt iterc ltrs et eeeccssceteee 50 Danish Macaroni -..-..cct2eu--.cocceteeateaeeese 107 
best yY gus] 1 [ aapha yap eee Reni eee hy toe eit a DeviledsEggs Deluxexsics- rote eee 107 
Lemon Jello Surprise Cake..........2.......-- 52 Dinner Casserole Deluxe..............----.---+- 108 





316 INDEX—Continued | 
| 
EQOS; Ord UIKING: nice eens cote ee 109 FigtSlicéssccrn oes scans eee 79 
BOOSACEIOn RUSSC see ee ee ae oe ee ee 109 Foundation Filled Cookies...................-.. 79 
EGogs -AUrOrd sett cdicticin the doi ekee soe 109 Foundation Refrigerator Cookies............ 80 
PoqsaBenedictiv gis) eee aes ne ees 109 Foundationssugar COOKIES. ..1:1-5.5..se cee 80) 
EROSS DIVO itt ct cs ee ee rea ee 108 Rrench: Merinigueyc..ue.c. sees eee eee 81 
Eggs aiorentine, 2 oa ee eee 110 Bruits NUtgstickS +... 22-0. ee 80 
PnglishBtqgs 1c cc ears eg mn eee ree 110 Pudge sSquores), ....is.c--+-9 2k seeseeen dee ee eee 81 
BLOMmiOde pike eee ee Ee am ee 110 Jam Surprises:...2..0..20 2c eee ee 81) 
Ham and Cheese Casserole.................--- 110 I aYel fe {07-1 ah (ee re a et 22 
Macaroni and Chipped Beef Casserole....110 Mincemeat Goodies 222 ss.0 ste eee ee 82 
Never fois Omelete 2.0 ieee 11] Molasses Brownies 2.....2.... ee 8] 
Omelette a la Paysanne...............--...-.-- hlsl Oatmeal Cookies: <....2i.0. see eee 82 
RiceeGasserCle:. ise... see ed pls Ootmeal®Crispsi.2 oc 83 
italic UMelaak (Bite (op PORt pate enn ee Ubi ae: 12 Oatmeal. Waters: =, 227.2... sence eee 82~ 
RUISSIOUAC GO Sarde. ob tists ete eee B12 Old Fashioned Teacokes.....................-.- 83 
Scalloped Oysters (Casserole)..............-. 112 Old Fashioned Sugar Cookies................ 83 
Shirred Eggs Mexican Style.................... his Peanut: Cookies (057 ecsen ee 83 
Skillet Scramble with Slivered Ham........ 113 Pecan) Bars’... eee 84 ° 
BOOMISMRIVIGCOIONIMEe: totais geen eee 111] Pecan, Sticks:<:).. eee eee 84 
Spanish Rice with Chicken...................- 113 Pinwheels « ...-...42.4 2 eee 84 
Swiss: Cheese Ricuate Winter eee Lee a 112 Plantation Fruit. Bars)... eee 35 | 
Swisseoctompled .EQQS2.- 2 aia eee ee 114 Praline: Cookies, 222.17. 2a eee 85 ~ 
micina:. Cheese Casserole j.ak-1 sesso saesaee 114 Prune-Filled (Squaresi=. 2.2222 ee 85 
VV cishmRarebite: cts ener a errs Oe ibe Ranch «Cookies (2.22). teen ee 86 
Rocks) i... ee 86 
Rosettes vec eee 87 
COOKIES Page Rum. Balls’. ee 87 
; Sand) Tdrts 2h) Se ae ee 88 
Almond Cookies .....-..-2-2-2+1+--sesssseseteseeees 7| Scandinavian Coconut Cookies.............. 58 | 
Almond Macaroons ines it coon aaa ak a) Spritz Cookies. (Holland)... 2 ee 88 
FADD IGSOUCE: COOKIES featarre tows eee ete 7 Stir-N-Drop»Cookies isi), Sas. eee 89 
ellen COCaKeS ar ee ee re eee 74ee Surgar Cris : 89 
; DS weesevecceseeuseect eee 
sean eben CoOkieS...---.-----see eee ees eee uf Sugar, Squares 9.2...) ee 90 
acai pats ras age he ale pee ee re Swedish Gingersnaps -1)2....2. eee 89 
PRSTIENI Cook ALIEN MOEN Gens 73 Walnut Brownies rvcncnononsnmennan 90 
Butterscotch Drops ae th G gh NE Tee 73 Walnut Molasses Strips SE IO IEC SLI 90 | 
Butterscotch Pecan Cookies.................2.. 73 
GhocolotesGhips Cookiesi2..1-. 74 DESSERTS Page 
Chocolate Cooklesam.cim ie ee ee ae Ife 
Ghocolgte: Pecansbrops... = at eas 74 Almond-Cream Tarts)... eee Zi, 
Chocolate Refrigerator Cookies.............. 74 AngelPartoite 22... re 217 
RecOnUtsIMOCOrCONS may eames eee ifs Angel Cake with Superb Sauce............-- 200 
SOCONUILER ON Gre cree eee on ee aes 75 Apple Pan Dowdy: 22 -2---1.2. sae 218 
CEOCONUTESIICES Meer ara te ig ke Applesauce Tarts .....-...0c.s0s eee 218 | 
Sraonberry sGUGreS es eet Nee 76 Boba;au Rhum: 20.) e eee 218 
GrescentsCook legit tn tine 8 7 ge ek te 7s Baked Apple Elegante..............--.......--.-- 218 
GrispeAIMOnG EL regts:- 191 aaeeee de te 76 Banana slorte t,t ee 219 
CORLETS eameece et eaee Lt mae eee eee 76 Banbury (hartSic..gecor 219 | 
Greunchyssuqarniookiesns....s9 8) ae VA Belmont Cheese Pie.4_.......:.....c....0 220 * 
BonishmGookiesa: 2: jus 0 aba ete 77 Boiled: Custard a... 01) 220 
tee Barspee. 0S Tce ke hr fn) Oe Boca 77 Cdfetaujlaitie 202 220 
DatessinuCheese Pastry ©... aye 78 Charlotte: Russe 2... ee 221 | 
Dota ROW IFS ge: ener ees ne 78 Cherries Jubilee ...........2..... tee 222 
De-Lish-Us Molasses Cookies................ 78 Chocolate Roll@ os. =... ee 221 


INDEX—Continued 37 





Chocolate Marshmallow Roll.................- 22 
DUET CML OFLON | o, 15. 0 cous ccscag ins -¥acsui dete. sits 2a 
Date Bridge Dessert (Icebox)...........2...... Poe 
MOM PISTOT EPC. cccncazencucc.- tien ute 222 
Foundation Recipe for Frigidaire 

Pe OM OTCCIT Sac: wien ss.89ides. coe. 222. 
OOD SUNG) Un GI 5 90, se 2Lo 
feererecimer atrait Pie. -2200.0.00..20.2...2-.0.-.. 223 
Marayette Gingerbread .......................... 224 
DI eo ssn o-n-sen-ccenesscaes 225 
BRM eS sooo s, cconeacnsesonaecrscs sa 224 
Meringue Glacee-Brandied Strawberries..224 
Brandieqd Strawberries ......./...........i...2.. Pie) 
TSS (BLE yee: Fe apne ana pane 226 
Memmrcomonerpet *s2s cy crise i 226 
BIG SOUL TIC? 20.0. 5.--. 1. encetsclecenceee 226 
Orange Souffle Supreme......................-. ap aay 
a 8S SNUGOT) 8 depet pean ieee ap eae ale A IN yaad § 
Ramer mre ntymeAAITIOFOSIO™ 2 .252s2s2 lsc. ceo -eoneceenoes 227 
Strawberry Ice-Cream Meringue............ 228 
eee OCT VMEOTtG) 2. oo. 02.52. .-cen eacsceneleees 228 
SUES ey areas eae enn ae 229 
Menttistraittis Compote” i252... 2.02) tees. 229 
ENE CICHEMMNICITT Seat tes o00 este 229 
SAUTE ESAS 9 ect 0 na i te 229 
DRESSINGS Page 
PEO VICE OOO OFOSSING.....-..0-<-scescenoeesecvee wie 
BOUCCMITESSING b....,....-.---0-00ein wget s. 212 
Buttercup Dressing for Fruit Salad........ 2 2 
Me TROreSSing wee... cist). Iressa 212 
Moles Slaw» Dressingss..c tes. fae ne iS 
Cooked Dressing for Slaw.....................- 213 
Cream Cheese Dressing.................2.22..2+- 213 
BereOlen OCeSSINnG gt ceztiesiowine casei dtckcssackeae 213 
Pressingmor ole SIGWL.:....:..--200es.-. lee 213 
Posy rollandaise, Sauce:....e8asl,-l.c...42 214 
Excellent Cole Slaw Dressing.................- 214 
French Dressing Deluxe....................-- 214 
BIGhOMOGISe Satce: 2... 2..........-tipks Aes 214 
eV EOLESSINNG pte ca esc eas 214 
Magic Mayonnaise Dressing................-- 215 
Mayonnaise Dressing .................2.2-.--.--+ Zi 
Mayonnaise Fruit Dressing...................- 215 
ING x ICON MOIGUAD LESSING ts.iessacc, toh ieee 25 
Pineapple Dressing for Fruit Salad........ 215 
ReaviGOl isl reSSiNi t.012:0 0... c2-s-acasdsesecuetacsest 216 
ROGUETOIR DIeSSiNG wit ct ace ee oe 216 
Salad Dressing (without oil).................. 216 
BOUrRCTEQM mM UOFeSSING wealth oak 216 
Sour Cream Dressing (without oil).......... 216 


Thousand Island Dressing..................---- 216 


FISH Page 
A Rater aye awe Stes 9 tee nwa pies rae eee e,5) 163 
ROMEO EOU GASH er sit eer ke ee 163 
SrULHOOET Ol sDOKEC ists pete Games es 163 
Baked Fillets in Sour Cream.................- rod 
Bakegeriiiet,.OFs oOlGs ek vac tee eee 164 
Baked Fish Fillets Thermidor................ 164 
OUI OOT Sse ge. ee eis Ys a 164 
Broiled Sardines on Toast.................-.--- 165 
GSTS OG Mit ener eee ie vk a Re ae te 165 
HIST ROG. WIth), CQGS..7...nse eee eens 165 
Bist eOLOOK See ttre ccs ee ee sca eg 166 
Fisherman $ Fund St@wW.2...2....4.-42---5<46ss 166 
ROC Karish IMUdGIE (nts ee 165 
OCIS PISIT  OtOW ie on ree ae ue tke ee 166 
ROGLONG DOCOM DITGS. pessoas ee 165 
SGIMOlS LOG. eee cen ee cee ee ee 167 
Shad" Roe’ Elegante........2...-..0.esteieee eee 167 
S6len LOSrndOlen oh. .ca0 sees eee 167 
Trout—-White Wine Sauce.................... 168 
POULTRY AND GAME Page 
Baked acnickKen me ee eee v2 | 
Baked Chicken and Noodles.................- 121 
Barbecued SCHICK ely acres nates casero waste scot se 122 
Broiled *Spring ;Ghickens22...2.0----.--.,--.. 122 
California Chicken Livers.............,......-- 122 
Chicken vatlae Wing sie ete 123 
Chicken-and-Sea- Food Risotto .............. 127 
Chicken Cacciatore (ltaly)s...5.22..2.5.2..2 23 
Ghickers Ghow sMein.....cc<s-:sessesese2-seenceee 124 
Ghickens Country, Captain. .222:2-232- 124 
GhickengGroauettesie cc. --cep teed oasaseease = LZ5 
Ghickéni Gumbo... .o2 os sceeeeeea so ease 125 
Chickens loti aera ei eee 125 
Chicken Marengo (France)........-..---.----- 126 
Ghicken?) Pies oe cin sate ncapfs aed eerste 126 
Chicken Saute a la Creole..................-.-- 126 
Chicken Stew with Pastry.............-.--.---- 127 
Cornish Hens on Company Rice............ 128 
Cranberry-Chicken Exotic .............--------- 129 
Deviled Ghickens <ofe22). oe ee 129 
Fried Chicken with Mole Sauce...........- 130 
Grilled ’Chickens....:<6¢.4..0°-.0ces4 278 ee 130 
tetlied Chickens Loat....2.-..u eee 129 
New England Chicken Casserole..........-- 13] 
Oven.Fried: Chicken -iesc.cu gs 130 
Plantation Chicken Dinner............-....--- 131 
Scalloped. Chickens. .2)....:.--2.5.42-aqseeeseane 1o2 
Smothereds Chicken e2422.-.5.-.2---.0asud-s<osne 132 
Southern Fried Chicken.........-....--------+-+- 132 
Boked Doves..cteeis nid. cab tis ecoses tease 132 


318 INDEX—Continued 





BOrDECUER TRODDItG ut... cicescccretecete ee 33 
BOrDBCUCTSOOUCE TCE et te ane. ok aes 133 
BIOISCC UCK@ne cet), ee Rte eae 133 
Bregdsstuiring pete tere ee 135 
Brolecamuciiigeree rt rn ce teks Gets) 133 
Caneton Montmorency ..........22.---.022e----- 134 
ENEOSONE DCHOML trate eee tea 133 
EPOSSUITITONG! Laters ive at ere, 134 
ROOSIMLIUCKtr Someone tere ena 134 
ROCST RE OOSE yestrte aie tae eter ty eee Us) 
ROKISt A GUK GV conve vere setree meet tress. 135 
SHEStHULm OtUtTIniGeer eo eten eee tee 136 
CV STEN MOTUTTNCet ene rete area res 135 
SC TereC mR SUUIIrehy meres (ne eae ag 136 
STULIER PSCUCU Reis Ce eee 136 
SOPRE Var lOstimete et. ee tee ee ea 136 
(Ure Val nainnaare ie ree ee eee 136 
ULERY BOMOLtCake) 1. een en re Taz, 
ar Key CP iGL eee tet Cement” | ieee we 137 
GRAVY Page 
BemaisesGtavy... ete eee nae 162 
OWN OVY eto en nee cee ee eee 162 
PSEC STOVY tes eae eee, Jaca ase ns 161 
ReibletisTOVV iste ek) mare O 162 
Gravy {Om rot-hoastior Stews. we ees 16] 
CSOVV MTOR ISQOSt meter ee nl tl weak ae 162 
AWK Cotas tole Un ea we ume Lt 163 


Mushroom Gravy 


TABLE OF HERBS AND SPICES....310, 311, 
. 312, 313 


ICE CREAM, ICES, MOUSSES AND 
SHERBETS 


Burnt Almond Ice Cream.........-..---..2.--- 230 
Caramel ice: Cream sia 1-230 
ChocolatesIce. Creamiai fe ©. 230 
Gotfee* icer:Creamie tte ele ee 230 
Eqgnog tlee* Cream eee er ele 231 
Frozen Custard (2 eee aes 231 
Gingersice:Gream.2).4.0.... ee es 231 
Peach::|ce’Gream it, Siw Stencil De 231 
Peppermint Ice Cream..........-.--cescecceceee 231 
Pistachios Ices Cream:asine nee Be 232 
Strawberry Bavarian Cream.................. 232 
Putti-Fruitti: ice‘ Cream tenets ait ve 232 
Vanilla*ice: Creamit'™ ..e itd ng) Bae 22 
Lemon ice stisse. ft picasa: FO Dae 233 
Oranges Ce: 51522: as: a i 233 
Watermelon: ice a: sen Dei ee ot 233 
Apricot Marshmallow Mousse................ 233 


€aramel Mousse Stent eee eee ee 234 
Remon ndVMousSe) scit oe zeae, ea terete te ceueeeets 234 
Macaroon .Moussemcnt.c. see cetes erence eee. ee 234 
Oranges MOUSSE dose: cs conn coteneecee tee eae 234 
Strawberry Mousse .....-..-----.cescsccsenssoesees 285 
Apricots Sherbet )....2. .)csccsacc-necotet eee ens 235 
simieiSherbeti ic osc cae eee eee 235 
Milk Sherbet: .cht cease eee se ee 239 
Orange Cream Sherbet......................<s. 236 
Pineapples snerDets. settee. cour etaeeeteteneaanes 236 
RGSDDeIry gs Oi DE Un iiaditt nce. st ccee ce eres 236 
ICINGS Page 
Boiled Icing yin c-occiaes oe dese eee eee 67 
Butter (Cream arrosting... 2. tee 67 
Garamelpicingt loc ce ee ee ee ee 67 
Garamelmicings Liiirescee eee, eee 68 
GhocolatemiCindtc..0:.-scce ee eee 68 
rEGm.L. GRECSCeaCIINGs 2 career crane cs eoaeeeeee es 68 
“Miss Anna’s’’ White Icing.............--..--- 68 
Mochad aleing.v.ctre oe eee | er 2! 69 
Orange erosting ee ore ae es eee 69 
Seo proadmarrosting...2 te eee 69 
Seven-MinuterICiINg 2.0. -cce-cceceecoaretuateceard 69 
Show Peale Frosting ce. eiecc ees eee 70 
Superb Uncooked Chocolate Icing.......... 70 
JAMS AND JELLIES Page 
BlackberryaJ arna-ci-csc.ce-cucee- ere eee 2572 
Currant Raisin and Orange Jam............ 252 
Galden. Pineapple Jam.....2. 2c: 252 
Pineapple and Peach Jam......-.........------ 253 
Rhuborb-andakign) Giriavecesereeeeteten sweeten 253 
Whole Strawberry Jam..................s-s.--0- 253 
Strawberry and Rhubarb Jam................ 253 
ApplesJellyi i... 2cs 6 Oe coe eae 254 
CrabsApple: Jelly. wan Bee wed 
Granberry..J ell yi gee. oul ectestete ae este 254 
Gooseberry. Jelly. sccuccscecctme eee eres 254 
Ouince OJON Y a scsreucceccachcasPeeebinece eee 254 
MEATS—Beef Page 
Barbecued Meat Loof..........22.2.2..2.0.----0- 138 
Beef a la Stroganoff (Russian).....-.......... 138 
Bresla: Of Beefin i Vee Se 138 
Brunswick Stew ............- rece Ne, ANS 139 
Chill). GonsGarneizs. cc sessteaee eesckeee ee 139 
ChiliStew gezsecis...ccreccee. deeeceae ee ee 139 
Creamed Dried Beef...........0..0.2c..e.cceee ee 140 
Déviled. Swiss Steak) ileal ee 140 


Filet: Mignone: 20 Re er ae Cras 140 


INDEX—Continued 319 





Filet of Beef with Mushroom Sauce........ 140 
OTe Wien ery Re oy ae. 141 
Grilled Short Ribs of Beef..:........0...000.... 141 
BMI ION GOULOSI: SicG ih dened Secs ecbagen-nns 141 
froma beet Patties: ..........-.2 deft ~.ecce- dec 142 
oe iD Mea gS I Re ella Or ee 142 
Rametrompurger LOof....2..22.....20ecesse 28s 08 142 
oS BEC) 3 ee a 143 
Poaetirioin lip of Beef.....21-22......4%.... 143 
SV ULSI Ste | Celgene 143 
Savory smoked [ongue...........2.0:-.--..-.0.- 143 
Br ICIST OT OGCT 220. 2c.-cocn-ccosdenednidoea-wee 144 
SRO TTT VICOUION) © 0. ooo soccenea-nnceccdensase-s-c 144 
Prete SP CMOW -IMICING...29.2-22a0--025-2decpcnesser< 144 
EEC CIN noo, oh esnap cel onntatsiceconne 145 
Sweetbreads with Brown Butter............ 145 
Sweetbreads en Brochette...................... 145 
Sweetbreads with Liver.......................... 146 
eee (OOM LININGS... .2-deadeond-cep-ncse-+-bs- 146 
MEATS—Lamb Page 
BERT PO ROW (Obl LOM... 0500 00c-c-nsnessccnccee-s,s 146 
Curried Lamb with Macaroni................ 147 
RMN oan ccs -wsesevnasncknacadeeae 147 
BRE FOTOM G8 idan sn annencdescdes inh tn-<vlcus 147 
“ach tla (Gl pelo 1 1g 8 || pha ey ener ee eee 147 
Bea COCO TES oes cans SRaR bean dew 147 
“at GOV hake a ee 148 
momo stew with, Cream.......csvscses2... 149 
oct p 0 Sgro] 0] (a egal: Uegeele Ee RN pena mee 149 
Ragout of Lamb with Summer Squash....150 
BST LEC -OF-LGINID  ...----r2<00n- e000 cbeivee aden 149 
Roast Saddle of Lamb—Fresh Mint 

Seer MOUNTS oe aca ct cent nce con cnes cen sonees 150 
Roast Stuffed Shoulder of Lamb............ 150 
Sherried Lamb Chops with Oranges........ aw 
Lamb Chops, Spanish Style............-....... 151 
Lamb Chops with Broiled Ham.............. 151 
Lamb Chops, Hawaiian Style.................. ot 
MEATS—Pork Page 
Baked Creole Pork Chops..................--+. LZ 
Baked Ham with Pineapple.................... 152 
Baked Ham——Vermont Style.................. 152 
Bored shore 1 Chopsitticc brett ole 152 
Baked Sausages with Baked Apples...... 152 
Barbecued= sparerins” a... cesses 153 
Braised Pork Chops with Mushrooms...... 153 
Esco lOped: MOMmr. ca rcctuateess eee eee 153 
Presi a iory TOOSti... siete ete oer toe. 154 
Biorn OU (/VIGIOUi Se. nner eet ee elena 154 


Holiday Ham with Frosted Grapes........ 154 


eT grate] Ca Pl oy Cel gg rey eee re rN RR 154 
Pore omitlets MEO lessee. soe a ee Sad 155 
Pork Chops with Scalloped Potatoes...... 155 
ROCSTNLOIM17 OFF FOF Kvieeh sven catty s eee 155 
Roast Loin of Pork with Apple Rings...... 156 
ROOST Se OF RPO MOU LUGS. vcssesesocagcteesssacee ener 156 
MEATS—Veal Page 
Bonguette. of Veal. .2. ccs tees 156 
Casserole of) Veollo- Se eee 156 
ellie’ Veoly ere ee ieee a es ers 
Parsley-Stuffed Veal Rolls....................-. 157 
Medi: Birds: ech er ae eee 158 
Veo NOt SUC cet paren cetemince es one 158 
Veol Croquettes <2) hae eee 158 
Wied CUTTS i neice. play el a ee eye ae 159 
Veal Parmigiana (italy). c:c:csescateenee ose 159 
Veal Scqilooine cris ase i eae 160 
Med) CO SOUTTIC st hoe saereenmi a dire treet ae 159 
MEATS—Venison Page 
Roagout. of. Ventsonz.c2..2r ee ae 160 
Roast. Leg. ofaVenison. 24-3... eee. 160 
Venison. Casserole. vas... cesta em 161 
Venison .Steakiuu. cee, re 161 
PASTRIES Page 
Bolloonsia ac soe. ee Pee 91 
Cheese, Biscuittwitenets. sein, eee 91 
ChocoloteiEclairsi. 2c cate eee 91 
Cream Putts oe Lert. a eee o2 
Danish. Past ryciescs..-.. Se ee 92 
Rlaky» Pastry ga ttccce Sete neers 93 
Hot Water Pastry............---- pon Sasettd peo: 93 
Meringue Pie Shells.............22204,.23 93 
PaferoAC hous 6 uo. ee ee 94 
PIES Page 
Apple-Meringue Pie .........-.....-------+e-++ 95 
Apple Raisin Crisscross...........-.--------e--+ 95 
Brown Derby Black Bottom Pie.............. 96 
Cherry. Cobbler ...2322::2:5-a3 hago <eeace et 96 
Cranberry-Cheese Pie .........-...----+---+0+++ 97 
Creole Molasses Pie....2..20.2..4.501...sccens-0e 97 
Dereany? Pieri eee i Lene einai sanddees am 97 
Eggnog Chiffon Pie... 7.2225. ubatsss4eesccnaaes 98 
Frosted Daiquiri Piez-scsto4) osc attetacsucaee 98 
Huckleberry Dumplings -.......-...--.---+--++- 99 
amon Rie fir ctonees sicides eee hgh eee 99 
Lemon: Carts i scisugeesen is -utiyasubitansa Aedadeass 99 


320 INDEX—Continued 





Polos? Cocoonutsricw eh eee es 100 
INVODIERNUts Piescssies thor cree eae er ce 100 
MINCEP Piet terete eee me Seren ene 100 
Mocharice:Cream'Pie 2.2. eo 101 
Party*Gream Cneese, Pié- ee 101 
Pecan Pierre. vn ser ee ine oer eee 101 
Pineapple: Chiffon: Pies222..5-..----:..2--<- 102 
BUMDKIG RE le a ee ee eee” es 102 
AwTamelalah MG gia melas, Led (om aise one eee ear et 102 
RGISITICH (Cac se so eae Ee. 103 
SwWeetseototo; Pie eae ee ee 103 
RVers Pi Ghee. oe et ois ues 1 oe Nee 103 
PUDDINGS Page 
Aimond-=reacherudding =.2:... tee 237 
AID eFaPUdCING aitees22 ce cer eeeee eee 237 
Apricoter uddings.- mere eee ee PWS 
Baked*PeachsPudding?v..2. ees 238 
Blueberry Cake Pudding................2......- 238 
BLOWMICMELICCING mts... tena ee ae 238 
CT LOteeUUG ING eer.st. ute es ee ee 239 
GherrVaRUCOING e811 si-eerc sien 2) pees 239 
Chocolate Macaroon Pudding...............- 239 
Cherry Pudding a la Francaise.............. 240 
Shristmdsme UCCiNnG uss.) et eens eee 240 
Chrhistmos piumerudding....-. sie eeeee 2411 
LJCteAPUGGINCe terre tee sae a ee ere ear 241) 
ENnGHSH EIUMa PUCCINI -¢:1ce 0): <- 58 oan eee 242 
PIG UCCINGeren cen ate eee een kee 241 
Frozen cognogerudding....-....-.. ees 242 
Grated Sweet Potato Pudding................ 242 
FuckleberryaPuddingis.....seseee eee 243 
King George surudding=...2. meee. 243 
MincemeotsPudding 2.:...-.24 .. seen. ee 243 
Old Fashioned Peach Pudding............--.. 244 
Orange Pudding)... 2.02... weseeee nag 244 
RluUmeRUdding» a ee ee eet 244 
Steamed) FiguPudding... Je es 245 
Steamed Orange Pudding.............-....---- 245 
PICKLES AND RELISHES Page 
Artichokes Pickles <a ae i a 262 
Bread and Butter Pickles...............-...... 262 
Contoloupe *Pickley-se4 a. eae 262 
Chopped*Row «Pickle... ever eae 263 
Crisps Gucumber Picklet:1 sume Os 263 
Crisp Green Tomato Pickle.................... 263 
Cucumber Icicle Pickles...........cc2ceccceceee 264 
DomsonSweet« Pickle: |. enim ts 264 
GreensFomatoPicklesa inn, whois 264 
N\IStOTORRICKIES =. Her aee 2  ee P 265 
Rickleg-@nerries 2.0; ee 264 


Sweets PICKICC FIGS. cor cccesteette eestor ee? 265 
Sweet Pickled Peaches........-.......--------<- 265 
Sweet Pickled Prunes......2...2....c-censnens-e- 266 
Watermelon Rind Sweet Pickles_........... 266 
Artichoke® Relish ®rst) cee ee ree ee 267 
@abbagesRelishttssscss sii ee eee ae 267 
Cite Sauce tyis eee no ee ee ee 267 
Chow Ghows live reste eee ee oe ee ee 268 
WROWTChOWesI etree teen a ee ene ee 268 
CHUTACY Mine ee eee ee ee eter eee eee 268 
Cranberry Orange Relishie...«.-..0 eee 269 
French Relish) tect re eee oe ee ee 270 
ndiaeRelist erie reese eee a eee 269 
lowa Green Tomato Relish..................-- 269 
Mexicary Coleslaw sss tesnere sree eee 269 
Peppe;nt LiGSivmemmeeticctete se. at carer aemendee ree 270 
PeppertineliSimtersr,:oteter-cocaer-t ceoeee teen eeeee ahd 
Ripe: PlomveRelishics< cet: cecest eect eeaeeees 271 
Speedy_ Corny menses. ieee eee Pag) 
SETGW DEFY ene iS) eee: ae eceepecte cs: teens sees 27.) 
OmatO* GOtSu 2a. ee ee 241 
FODICONMMENIL @5QUCEmareecec te ee. t, eens 271 
PRESERVES AND CONSERVES Page 
GherryePreserveSinn.c:: sesso eee ee 255 
DaMmSOMnMRreserveSi sc ie ee ee 255 
FIG “PreSOrveSenc, -vcccaderiees os hte eee 255 
PeachsPreserves Soa icice esse uence eee 255 
Pear-Preserves.....,042iete eee ee ee 256 
Easy Strawberry Preserves..................---- 256 
(Conserves) 

BrondieG | FiGSsn atte. eas cee. eer eee Fae Gs 
Brandied er eachesae icc eae eee 257) 
Calamondins Marmalade... 207, 
[talian Prune COnserves............-- ee 258 
Kumaouat )VMotmolod@nc:: 1... ese eae 258 
Orange: COnSCIVGn ie sce. tce a eee 258 
Orange SIMGlMOIOGG me leees. cee eer eee 259 
OrangesMarmoladesi_-7..-.1-. a csea eee 259 
Peach Conserve Lenox...._:......cee eee 259 
PeachiGonserves= 7, 6.0. ee 259 
PeachaMarmoalodet.- =... ee 260 
PeartAmbernee rn nn ee 260 
Pear-Gonserveeren ee eee 260 
Pecan-Grape Conserve ..........2.02.-22---20--- 261 
TomatonConseve seer. nen nn egs ee 260 
Watermelon Conserve .......2.2222022.0-02---- 261 
SALADS Page 


Avocado and Grapefruit Salad 
Cabbage Salad Supreme....................-.-- 194 


INDEX—Continued 321 





Pere er roca “coc cesctecseic eds eeat UR! 194 
Chicken and Pineapple oe IESE RIE: 194 
Mrnmviedts 5010.26. ceo heen hs SY 195 
Rromberry SGlad: 222222050. 195 
Meremrminer ASOIC: 2.320.220.0002 IO 195 
Peper cnye SOlOG ©. ...2s220e20.d2.c2--- 8 2. 196 
Proieooiad Supreme. 20..202..22 28 lee 196 
PMGGt ANG SOO... oc. 00 196 
Pere peach Salad. 2.2.2.2... le 196 
Lime Vegetable and Fruit Salad............ 197 
Molded Cranberry Salad........................ 197 
Grange? blossom Salod.....£2322.2:0....2000224 197 
Orange Summer Solad....222.0.20.0....22.02.. 197 
Original Perfection Salad...................... 198 
PPOrteNVine S010 i oiicl 2 198 
Seem CCEA Ce Se wecanc el keti Llu 198 
Shrimp tomato Mold... ..22........2..--222.... 198 
Menno SOIC for. ocis2.-0-- 0200 199 
imomarovrspic Salad.....2.25.200.00.202...0001. 199 
Meperople OOldd oi. al 199 
CL Se OSG fas Oo a a ee 200 
Purr uIP oOlad ie 2.2). oN. 200 
SANDWICHES Page 
Peon CG | LOMOtOL...-c..--------.---.2-0.000nsn- 208 
DCPS CIC ICTY fences cdutwccncns-u2<+-00-n-ccleedans 208 
Cold Meat Sandwiches...................-.....- 208 
Chicken Salad Sandwiches.............-..---- 209 
Delightful Cheese Spreads...............------- 209 
Dente WIGILGLY 0.2.20. -. 2. StS sodanee 209 
PAGCOR SONGWICNES ..-2.<..-0.-5.---0--0cecesense 209 
Ooensbace. Crab. Sandwich.............-..---- 210 
Open Face Cream Cheese Sandwich...... 210 
SEL ST 2 a a ieee OP ee Aa 210 
Memon and. Celery. pi2.js-c0tl)--cicvusnstt--o-. 210 
NICK OR oes oo. oil ss wneceemeall 210 
SEI ONOWICNES |... -..2----sudeesaecneokaeme 210 
SAUCES Page 
PREGA ICG wa eos soca ets te EMILE. et 201 
Pic taOOUCEN ENT .eiits. Dusk oe ee 201 
POOR OC UCE LL. vandcsces tee. eteed ae ROY 201 
Bot pecUG, SAUCES ceinns. NOUS ed. eer 201 
SCHON Las OCILICE). -s sit uon iets fcte ek eo ee Te 202 
BipeuGneese.. SOUCE... 15.5 UN. ee 201 
REECE OOUCE NM. soccerarerwssnnceRl las ee lten eels 202 
REGGKECI eOGUCE. n.nss-ussostessoSet ha ctcce. bemeae 202 
Greocle.Sauces lok. 2X pee. sty BRIE 202 
MareOlawodlice.. Lire ik el ee es 202 
Gacumber.Satice..... AR HeaAve cs. bates 203 
BAGO a SOIUCCmicdiiesisacisiccbescssness siete et 203 
Fishoalice hom, Lis Spare liv. wank 203 


FOOMY? SAUCE ra Avartlalarcedis. AOL 203 
HONG SaQUCes ace teliiess Rota 203 
Hollandaise+Sauce -|RieRmuns.. 27k. Gee 204 
Hollandaise Sauces! Miva 2 a), ee 204 
Homemade Mayonnaise ..............---------- 204 
Lemon-Sauce Supérb:n 2 SNR ek 205 
MVISHLFOOMIEOOUCE ben thre aitete okay: 204 
Mustard Mayonnaise Sauce.............------- 205 
POTS es DOUCE emis ascsetut tons dee Sikcncbnas dat roe ZOD 
Pickwick. Cocktail, Sauce. .2...:.52 3 di 205 
ROUSHPASO UC as.5) skate sp occag ee sone eters wk 205 
Sauce, amaze tie ne Ai eee 206 
Souce INicoise ilo es lg a a ees 206 
Souce wRemoulade), ti eeu Seen an 206 
BOD ISE gh core iisawet choose nant cabo ee cede gatrestietie Ae 206 
BOLO sSOUCG i ues oe ANCA. regi ges 206 
WictfeetSducenuta eee ieee 206 
Wie OUTE ul ocicds Ab nisuisauyecescceacceSnneeici oleae 207 
MINGIGNGLE@s. = Li osmeateuhe cic -o, vesie te 207 
WRITE Solicer =. a) kent peti tae ee 207 
W inevSauce eo 2s ieesess Cate - eevee: 207 
IM | yale] 0 REE ey se eeibeia toe gene Aaearhle 8H, edge rene a 207 
SEAFOOD Page 
Sia) Te ph Sl go ig mamept ones aets ek ld hg eet ah AEN eB 169 
Baked Fish MOUSSert re ere eee 169 
Bisque of Lobster and Shrimp....-.....-.-..- 170 
Boiled: Fish with Egg Sauce:-.:.-.2.2-0...0.... 170 
Broiled? Bobster cite teeta. ees nde sete 169 
Broiled Oysters with Cheese...........--.-.-- 170 
Cantoneserlobsterrcter iene: cc ecteere ee 171 
Cheese: salmon’ Bake. 20.0.) oiace. os. osesneeee 172 
CC IEEAE HOW CG farses oases see atta ioe ee eee 172 
Coquilles Saint-Jacques ............------------ 7] 
Grab * Croquettes )..:..-<.....2----2eeeee2--eeee LAS 
Crabs. Imperiaty..2 aes ot Rete ate LA2 
Grab; Meata:la King.a:...-c.ti reeset 173 
Crab: MeatsBisquéyhnwha bil. 173 
Crab Meat Maryland Casserole..........-..- 174 
GrabsNewburgigss.csnc.asnkes eeeedeeraere eee 174 
Crab Newburg Cheese Tarts........--.-.----- 175 
Davileds Grape tctcass.-aekeeeae sie ee 176 
Rishi: Chowder. d,..atenesea<sanaa- ae oiden dance ee 176 
Holiday....una.,Loafiste:.. en Ree 175 
obster, Newburg)ciies.:ds. a. leek ee 176 
New. England. Glamseie2 2... 2raities. 176 
Lobster Thermidor with Pilaf.........-........ 177 
Oyster or Shrimp Cocktail Sauce............ 178 
‘Panned Oyster Supreme..........-------------- 178 
Quick, Lobster.Fondue.-.- ee eee. tee 178 
San Francisco Deviled Crab................-.-- 179 
Scalloped. Oysters ...-2oeintis. Sees. 178 


‘Shrimp Creole ......- fl, hasty ted nee T bead! 179 


322 INDEX—Continued 





Shrimparlibachitcscs.. 1. etn een ee 179 
Np Valaaled Weve bye (eels haeipoh meet bent whirls myueep, {9 180 
ShirimpmRices Parmesonserssesr seo ce, 180 
Salateaem@l aisle) Bee baer toe ee 181 
unas Parisienne: ...a-c2na ee E owas Ss 181 
Uncooked Barbecue Sauce.................--.-- 179 
SOUPS AND CHOWDERS Page 
AASPOTOGUSSSOUD wa.Jssteititss- seeet eee ere eee ee iS 
Bean Chowder .............-- og OE bes) 
Black BednwmOUDisesieeuttett cus cee eencoes iD 
BOrschsOrspeeteoOUDGll...csc..ccseteeee see eee 116 
Borschsorabeet. Soup «li. fessersessettes eee 116 
SSIEIVBOOUDIN Fi osasese sce eset cacns scesto setae 116 
iEKEN BINGOGLE 4 S0UIPzs,.2+<.-s been eee cases 116 
Ghickenssoup sOnOVatOrs.<e:c-.-ecueeee ieee 117 
Gr GOW Oia act. ser miertes cater cee. ts scion 117 
CH Give SOUD peur s.c-ce-becscseycionesse ster ossente 117 
GreamsOre COTM s SOUP satcscen- tee ee tee eee LT 
IMimMeStronenSOUp maces tericcee- tee oe 118 
PATISHOOMIBSOUD te a-eee, tocera sr ete ee eees 118 
ONION SSOUD wee te eee eres eee sent eee 118 
OV stereSOUDEOLrotC Wea eet st t.ge se eee 118 
POLCtORSOUD wo rreeaa as. soon tee eres 119 
PureesorrCchestnut: SOUps.2-.-2.---seseseeeet ene 119 
Sella Uetstey Wreltfe we ha gd ee eae ont ay 119 
BEOITIG LORS OUD marcas ete ee eee eee 119 
BRCIEICE Ve OOUD ie eat eae hie eee ee as 120 
BUIRtLe SOU D mtenncetete ett rook ee eens 120 
NegetobDle SOUP masse: ete en cee 120 
MIC VOSOISG mer mre ites. tee ee rear ee eee 120 
VEGETABLES Page 
FACOPMMOCUGSN Seeveoeiesvecccee. ceeee ey cee Ue ive 182 
Apples: FriedziniGatter...:.c-... .csercsasste.cee 182 
PNCrOSm@ ASOLO Otc evoke cee ees eee oe 182 
Asparagus with Hollandaise Sauce........ 183 
PASDOIGGUSLMIGUSSGie- 5. oe ceee eteee eee ee 183 
BGiceGimeLOMmOlOeS waa -tece see oksts er reoeee ce 183 
Brandied or Shirred Potatoes.................. 183 
BLOCCOM ME acess cccree et can toc EN. Sens 183 
BrusselSeSDrOUutsivesctcscescns-2- 0) toe 184 
Candied Southern Sweets...................... 184 
Gornzand. Chili Casserole... me 184 
Corn Fritters, Northern Style.........2........ 184 
COM PuGGING .es. Selekes eo eee 185 
COMM A OOUTT Gite, ie actos ceeeete i ees 185 
Creamed (Cauliflowen@it 2. 2 185 
Egoplantaltalianay 2 ei tee ee 186 
Egepiant., souttlese 2 re ae oe 186 
French, Fried, Eggplant... see eee 186 


Grilled Tomatoes and Mushroom Caps....186 


GUMBO yes ie ou ee ee eee 187 
Hamburger-Eggplant Casserole ............ 187 
Harvard: Beets.) 2). cree eee 187 
Hash Brown) Potatoes cr.---tieceee aes 187 
Lyonnaise, Potatoes <-.2..... see, ee 188 
Okra) Patties: <....---3 02.2: eee ee 188 
Grange» Glazed) Yomsicais.. eee 188 
Potatoes au Grotini......-... eet oe eee 188 
Potato Cheese” Boats... .:.5.eret- eee 188 
PotatorPancakes 225.) si. eee eens 189 
SeallopedPEggplantne = 2 ee 189 
Scalloped ‘Squash .. 3-2 {2 ea ee 189 
Scalloped Tomatoes) -Aeis seen ee ee 189 
Sour, Gream_ Rice: 22342. eee 190 
Spanish Rice with Chicken................-..- 190 
Spingcht Ring: 2..-:2:2.2.--22-- oc ee 190 
Steamed Cabbage \.c.22.474. serene: eee 190 
Stufttedi Eggplant ........-.----.-.- see eee 191 
StuffediPeppers ...-:---. castes ceieeeeee eee 19] 
Stutfed Squashi.-...2:....... a eee eee 191 
Sweet Potatoes en Surprise.................--- 191 
Sweet Potatoes in Orange Cups.............. Lo2 
omatoes  aulanG@reoie.. =e. eee 192 
Zucchini: ine Cream sen. tt eee tg? 
Zucchintewith Eqgs:c-2.-.....-:.-ee ee eee 193 
WINE Page 
Blackberry) Wine 222 2.2 See eee 272 
A U. S. Senator’s Madeira Wine............ 272 
fLomato Wines 4.......)...... Ae ee ee Zi. 


AlsatiansMeate32 2254-5 ee 279 
Basic French Omelette................2...---2-- 280 
Bo-Pews ese Sy c cc ee ee 274 
BrinjalaSmooret 2.8 -..<...0n ee ee ee 278 
Broccoli with Mustard Sauce............-..-.- 282 
Cheeses Filling wes...-.2.0.2 eee 285 
Chilean Kidney Beans...............-..2.---.---- 2/3 
Chinese Almond Cakes.............-...-------+- 279 
Chinese Beef with Mushrooms............---- Pa 
Chinese; Chop) Suey............. ee ee PS: 
Chinese Foo Chow Scramble.................. 274 
Crab Meat, Egg. Pancake. 2.2 ee PET 
Cuban? Beef. Stew... Seas eee 2ZID 
English MuUtftinsn 22) 276 
EriglishPork Pie...) eee ee 277 
Escalopes de Veal a la Bourgeoise.......... 281 
Foide Veau (Golfis Liver) eee 283 
rlomard/a.la (Newburgh. ...2 i eee 280 
trish eStew px sce a sr Oe en ee 276 


La Sagna with Tomato and Meat Sauce..284 





INDEX—Continued 323 





INAERAGCICIYPOIIFIINID,  ~.--- 22-202 -ecencecccee-oennce 273 
Manzanas En Dulce (Honeyed Apples)..283 
Pescado Espanol (Baked Fish, 


BPTI ISEVEOUVIC) 2. cccisl docacevevvecsevesaccrseus 284 
Urals Sy ce 282 
Rhamkuchen (Cheese Cake).................. 279 
mBcmwapiscnes Fleisch .....................-...-.- 281 
BEOre ME GNCOKES —.....---.5..-..-c ce ncgcencecnene 276 
Seotcnnoost of Mutton..........:....-...---.-.. 275 
ESCM UICCHINI .....-.-.-22soc22-..20ce--sseeees 281 
Rema SLI OKeKNOW. <..2.22-22----cenecceerccecene 275 
Tonno—AMaariner’s Pie -...........2..-222.22---- 283 
MT ECHIGMAISTOCOCNCU ...:..--.c-2c-c-ceneeseecnenceae 280 


WINE, ITS PROPER USAGES.................. 286 


CALORIE COUNTER ............ 287, 288, 289, 
290 29 V2 92 


DEFINITION OF TERMS USED IN 
COOKER ite er er erent es On Ors, 


HOUSEHOLD AIDS ...__......00222....22222..--- eS, 
TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES..294 
VITAMINS—MENU PLANNING ..._..._.. 295 
MENUS .............. phe! Pip Nh Paps Par eee C1918) 


CANNING....301, 302, 303, 304, 305, 306 















1 eles Pale. eas", aera moun: arid reine a ae me, 
bi 1) fi rte ae Bei! ater Boyero lth: MkII 
BP kn oben) RH YI Wha 38s 9 PE Ri eth 


y ; } ff Na aor i avon ea to iota nae Rg Uh ti aan 


t fi ih ite van ea spe clages pet aged Layee ay in eHNRSHOO Hf & arn #4 eeu a ares it var rea 
ai Wits i Hecht ie A Wy pil wi); \ a. sane Kaen ae aor SF 


2) ee . _ tA dudaeuon | Ma: aa OS 


Hh is 1 EES ae ve ay ne Thi { a Sroeisie P als Pr ae be whee swage S) Pee | 


1); ‘ y 5 : aye pekd ea Sate i eT ee ne taal! oh t a segs: sr om e 
aie near mRNA iia erHCIAW A a4 sa Se irate nites: al 
ty t ip Bea f) van “ai ny oe WBe do odin ea ae beliarensiit wil orto euatlete 

sina em -ausien cas Ue RA hie GR, p are > ‘enhovh area 


i ; : 7 4 LATS Lisa dectke 0 ra vi aa aes 
fap a i Ome Dn trig eee ee - wbelnbos vm sore 
pee de. aoe aah WEN BR _ wiMaN | 









ah ee iy ses a 
I ay a oi yt me ait } mee 
- %! i" 
vi a ws pen eae (0: ah AS BBS irene tae Ago seit sata 
H ‘ a 
eMC kh a Se ee ie 0 ee Ss Milos heen if aR Ls Wal tak, tere ; , hohe a © 
¥ Neat ial va il eee) we bie SHA , Suh : i Lf ay rh be 
i ere Mh igh: a iP fet} el yy Se ‘any ae ALD hie 7” ‘ 

" ae nH 7 ih ng y ; j i : ’ os “ AP } ce i hs 
je ll AA oiled idee wre oe x i ¢ yar ; | 
RETA UN AN SBN) tice of dak ytek ete ar eat eer 

k iviy An i % R es 4y j d 1 v4 2 ‘ 7 ; r, a i ; i i i" ‘ +2 ac 

nM / \ a, ; 4; ve otf vu rr n ty te, iN, ‘ b. Pratl i im 7 1} 7 ; i Ms . i] 

7 | ie ri 4 Tames te y ; ante : F : | oe Yate Se hea 
wal ‘ yh Ti Fae pry 14 “. “ (ius i; a ' “4 

; a A I ‘| tr be ho iy iui ‘. Pal Mh) ’ ' i . J al "0 i : ee is j B ; o “ia ¥ , * i a. 


ia) ‘ . r: , A , aa: ‘Ly 


iad MA m eye nen) ‘ F olt ge viati / : eg ) i ; | y A i 










no ee ei cn eapmeetk 
‘ pin th ls a DACA G (alae See anh ts ie MENG dr), Manan RA ACE A al at regen Bh Ly Fate 
ay ity plies Si hi ne Ade aid (an he cee re a eu [ae Pa Re 





: \ } Z iol ane. ty eee j } , 4 7 iy 
E yi rT , 7 bie 4) P ; ( : rigs mt bays i H a) in ’ A as oa f: ¥ 
ANA age . liabay t: nnn a AR OP jh 5° : ae A i oe a ren eres 






1 i ay can cae ti ae bi MF ? Lda Wi ea f eae tM hae Lae maa ih iF Hi i wee 4 bi A I ban Fake Sig i, 
A alg Ay ha P an We Ly o% _ iM Pt Le 5 CAF i } i /4 oe : ate bt , 
osetia iv v Fit ih ra 1 Ve bi Le el Te nat if Aes Bal Hh ) 


] 4 » 
K nt tae 
| my é Prong A 


; Mh Pree ime lh eats PEIN, sen Ct a 
ies ae 
























co a 
ee Die wil nt» Aye A a 


iy au 
Tort aes a Laat eee 
aii) it i pet 

. ti ja e Pu : mm a i) fi At nae 
7 F i 4 a bi oh ti Me i wh ce re tae , i 

iy Pied MENT ne oe, sabe Trae ee TL! 
Pes ry a Ney 

es i i. 
; na nti: f 

iv hi 


Bu) 


























